IS tartan
March 6, 1973 Volume 73 number 20
THE WEEK-END BILL OF FARE:
Inauguration
Dr. Richard M. Cyert will be formally 
installed as sixth president of CarnegieMellon University at ceremonies to be held 
on Friday, March 9, at 2:00 p.m. in the 
ballroom of Skibo.
Dr. Cyert assumed the CMU presidency 
on July 1, 1972, succeeding Dr. H. Guyford Stever, current Director of the 
National Science Foundation.
The program calls for an academic pro
cession followed by official welcomes to 
the new president from representatives of 
CMU students, faculty, and alumni. Dr. 
Howard R. Bowen, chancellor of the Clare
mont University Center, will be the 
featured guest speaker and will outline 
what he views as some major challenges 
facing the University. Dr. Bowen will also 
be awarded an honorary degree of doctor 
of laws at the ceremony.
President Cyert will respond to some of 
the challenges raised by Dr. Bowen in his 
inaugural address entitled, The Present 
and Future of Carnegie-Mellon 
University.
A native of the Minneapolis area, Dr. 
Cyert received his B.S. degree from the 
University of Minnesota and his Ph.D. from 
Columbia University. He joined the 
Carnegie-Mellon faculty in 1949, serving as 
dean of the Graduate School of Industrial 
Administration from 1962 until his 
selection as president.
The representatives of the various con
stituencies of the University who will 
officially welcome President Cyert are 
students: Michael J. Garl, president of 
student government from Bethel Park, Pa.; 
faculty: David H. Fowler, chairman of the 
Faculty Senate and professor of history; 
and alumni: Maxwell H. Connan, president 
and founder of Conart Industries, and 
president of the Carnegie-Mellon Alumni 
Association.
SHELTER IS 
, ON ITS WAY
Waiting in the rain for a bus will be a 
*!i ng of the past (at CMU, at least) if the 
uiy allows the erection of a temporary bus 
shelter on Forbes Avenue in front of 
Warner Hall.'
The Student Advisory Committee asked 
President Cyert for the bus shelter, and the 
Physical Plant Department was assigned the 
project several months ago.
The final plan was submitted by Robert
S. Taylor, Professor of Architecture and a 
member of the Campus Design Committee. 
A local company has already completed 
fabrication of the shelter.
But a city zoning ordinance requiring 
that buildings on private property be set 
back 25 feet from the street got in the 
t way.
The Physical Plant Director Roger 
Schmidt appeared before the Board of 
Adjustments Friday to explain why the bus 
shelter should be built close to the street.
You can understand this (the 25-fo''t 
setback) for a house, Schmidt said.  1 it 
it seems a little ridiculous to have the bus 
shelter 25 feet from the street when your 
whole purpose is to have it so people can 
stand in it and not get wet when they wait
Parents Day
by Debbie Siegel
On Saturday, March 10th, Parents Day 
will be held and from personal replies
On Saturday, March 10th, Parents Day 
will be held and from replies to personal 
letters that were sent home, approximately 
three hundred parents are expected to 
arrive. Dean Swank commented, It is 
merely a coincidence that Parents Day falls 
on the same weekend with Cyerts inaugur
ation and Greek Sing and Swing. He 
stressed the value of freshmen attending 
the program whether they come with their 
parents or alone. The program is scheduled 
to occur as follows:
There will be a registration period where 
coffee will be served. At 10:15 in the 
Skibo Ballroom, President Cyert will 
present a welcome message. Following this, 
a panel including Dr. Schatz, Dr. ^D.H. 
Fowler, Mike Garl and Tanya Allmond will 
each present their view of the students 
experience from their personal perspective. 
To answer any questions about the stu
dents experience, will be Mr. Ginevan, Dr. 
Bamonte, Dr. Abel, Dean Milligan, Dean 
Williams, and Dr. Beach. The session will 
end by 11:45.
Parents are invited to eat lunch in 
separate locations according to the depart
ments their children belong to. In a 
reserved section of the Kiltie Cafe, will be 
those from AMS, MIS, and CIT. In Morewood, will be those from H&SS and CFA 
will eat in the Kresgie Faculty Dining 
Room. During the lunch hour, faculty and 
staff from the various colleges will be 
available to speak to anyone who may 
want to ask them questions.
continued on page 13
Hear Ye!, Hear Ye! - all those in favor of not 
getting wet when it rains please appear before 
the Pittsburgh Zoning Board.
for a bus.
Pitt had to go through this when they 
built their bus shelter, too, he added.
The shelter will be temporary due to 
State Department of Transportation plans 
to modify the Fc;bes-Morewood inter
section to ease traffic flow.
It is constructed of square and rec
tangular steel tubing with a corrugated 
steel roof, has a 16 foot by 10 toot trame, 
and is 8 feet high.
Following a hearing on the matter, 
Roger Schmidt said, We will be notified 
by mail and the results look favorable. 
Well put it up as soon as we get the 
word.____________________________
EARLE GISTER:
Easy Come 
Easy Go!
by Frank Napoli
The running feud between Drama 
Department Chairman Earle Gister and 
Dean of Fine Arts Akram Midani came to a 
head last Thursday when Gister tendered 
his resignation as Chairman of the Drama 
Department.
WRCT News spoke to Dr. Schatz, the 
Vice President of Academic Affairs that 
day concerning the resignation.AsWRCT 
News has reconstructed tliex events, they 
occurred as follows: On Feb. 20, President 
Cyert published a letter in the Tartan in 
reference to space allocations for the 
College of Fine Arts. These space allo
cations had been worked out with the full 
knowledge and consent of Dean Midani. In 
response to this letter Earle Gister wrote an 
open letter to Cyert which he posted on 
the Drama Department bulletin board. This 
open letter was critical of the arrangements 
as stated in the Tartan because he alleged 
he had not been consulted concerning the 
space allocations and as a result the Dean 
of Fine Arts could not speak for the Drama 
Department.
In response to this allegation Midani 
asked for Gisters resignation as Depart
ment Chairman which Gister promptly 
tendered. Dr. Schatz described the tone of 
Gisters letter as obviously reflecting 
misunderstandings and misconceptions. 
These misunderstandings were cleared up 
in a series of meetings, two of which 
included Midani, Gister and* the Drama 
Students and the other two with Midani, 
Gister, and the Drama Faculty. President 
Cyert attended one of the meetings with 
the faculty.
Dr. Schatz describes the result of those 
meetings: Those misunderstandings and 
miscommunications have essentially been 
resolved and Dean Midani has withdrawn 
his request for Mr. Gisters resignation and
SECURITY TO THE RESCUE
CFA Is Burning!
by Gary Bronheim
On Monday, February 19, 1973 at 6:33
a.mi.. Bill Steel, a University of Pittsburgh 
student, reported a fire in the Fine Arts 
Building. Four officers ran to the building 
in response to the call, while the Security 
Office called the Pittsburgh Fire Depart
ment.
Officer Goodlow got to the burning 
pottery room first, however, due to stu
dent mischief, there were no full fire ex
tinguishers available. While he ran to find 
an extinguisher, officer Yoskoske and two 
off-duty men, Reihart and Meyer entered 
the smoke filled room. With no real 
knowledge of how bad the fire was, the 
men ripped the burning wood from the 
wall to prevent further spreading, of the 
fire. By the time the fire department 
arrived, security men'had put out the tire.
According to Ron Taylor, head ot 
Security Services, 1 think the officers, 
both the ones that were on duty, and the 
ones that were off-duty, did just what I 
would have expected they would have 
done, but did a great deal more than what 
is required of them. The damages were 
only $500 due to the fast work done by 
the security men. This situation is another 
example of how the security otticers 
protects the campus community._______
ur. Schatz, Vice President of Academic Af
fairs, discussed the situation between the 
Dean of the Drama Dept., and Dean Mi
dani concerning the plight of CFA._____________
Mr. Gister has agreed to stay on as head of 
the department after acknowledging or 
essentially withdrawing his original 
letter.s,Editors Note: We would like to thank the news and technical staffs of WRCT for their cooperation, making the above article which is a transcript of the original WRCT report possible.
REFUND IN FORMA TION:____________
BYRDS CANCELLED
On February *26, the Activities Board 
was notified by the Agency for the Per
forming Arts that the BYRDS had an 
unsuccessful week-end tour of New 
England, and as a result the bass player, 
Chris Hillman, has quit the group. Roger 
McGuinn is attempting to re-enlist Skip 
Battan to perform with the Byrds, but 
until this is resolved, all dates have been 
cancelled. Refunds for all ticket holders 
will be handled March 5-9 in the CMU 
Gashiers Office, Warner Hall Basement, 
from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. and 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. 
on March 6-7. Tickets will be refunded 
only during those hours and dates and not 
after.
Dorm Vandalism
In the past month, CMU residence hall 
fire prevention equipment has been 
vandalized to the tune of $700. This brings 
the total expense caused by fire extinguish
er discharges, theft and vandalism to fire 
hoses to over $2,500 for this year. Thats 
two dollars from the pocket of every 
resident in the dorms, quoted Bill Dillon, 
Director of Housing. When will residents 
realize that this is money which can not be 
used for carpets, drapes and other much 
needed improvements?
Most of the damages can not be 
recovered. However, one particular item, a 
spanner wrench, which must be kept in 
every fire station is being stolen in uncanny 
numbers. Guessing that about the only use 
for this device, other than that for which it 
is intended, is opening pop bottles and 
stealing hub caps. Bill Dillon is offering to 
provide any student who returns a spanner 
wrench borrowed before March 1st with 
a free official Beat Em Bucs Iron City 
Beer can opener (now a collectors item) 
donated for the project by Pittsburgh 
Brewing Company. The wrench must be 
returned to the Housing Office for ex
change and must be one taken before 
March 1st (new wrenches have been so 
marked). Students should also be aware 
that possession of this wrench, as well as 
any other University property, is a serious 
offense and can result in a fine or 
expulsion from the residence halls._______

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 6, 1973
EDITORS NOTE
The impending return of the good old days:
/ guess it was back in the 1930s and 40s, back in the days when 
only the lucky few made it to Old Ivy, to State U. and to Collegetown 
U.S.A. It was when Andy Hardy's father set up a college trustfund, when 
Popeye and Mickey Mouse told their sons and nephews to study hard so 
they could someday be the college graduate doctors, lawyers and leaders 
of our country. It was when Ozzie and Harriet pledged their unborn sons, 
David and Ricky, to Beta Beta Beta or Sigma Sigma Sigma or Rho Delta 
Rho.
In those days it was a privilege to be in college and students knew it. 
They worked hard and took\ their work seriously. They argued politics and 
sociology and economics, but they were never destructive. The only time 
students got into trouble was when they were caught cheating on exams 
and then they were quickly disgraced and dismissed and never heard from 
again.
Of course, there was recreation, too. There were pennants and 
football games. There were floats and bowls and parades and real 
enthusiasm. And even the more outrageous fellowsthe goldfish 
swallowers and panty raidersdid things with a real collegiate spirit.
Yes, back in those days, there was a real sense of community to 
college life. The university was a place where the great minds of this 
country interacted. The university could remain aloof from the rest of 
society. It wasnt an ivory tower; there was simply no need for inter
vention by the outside world. The university was self-contained, ran under 
its own rules and policed itself. People obeyed these rules because they 
valued their community .
Dean Steinberg has expressed concern that universities in general, 
and C-MU specifically, are losing their sense of community. Things are 
stolen from the bookstore, fraternities are raided for growing pot, 
students arent concerned with the problems of the campus; the university 
might as well be the outside world. And if we act like the outside world, 
were inviting all their problems. We invite the city police, the pollution 
board, the sanitation department-you name it.
The explanation for the dwindling sense of community would seem 
to be fairly obvious: going to college isnt such a great privilege anymore. 
There are more colleges and universities. There are larger colleges and 
universities. Something like 50-60% of all high school graduates go on to 
higher education.
Consequently, college isnt special anymore. The rules here arent 
any more special than the rules in the outside world and are just as 
easily broken. The people are not much different than the smart kids in 
high school. The degree isnt as special as it used to be because it no 
longer guarantees a good place in society, a good job, money, or even 
much respect from your friends. And Dean Steinberg says he has no idea 
how to reverse this trend.
From a few key indications, however, there is evidence that trend 
may reverse itself naturally.
A few weeks ago, / happened to be listening to KQV radio when 
Perry Marshall was asking people to call in and answer the question, Is a 
college education necessary ? Every call / heard said the same thing: 
No, a college education is not necessary. The people / know who went to 
college cant find a job. / (or my husband, as the' case may be) am 
making more money than any college graduate / know. College is a waste 
of money. 
/ also heard on the news that Wheeling College, a small private 
school, announced last week that it would have to dose because it was 
losing money. This announcement helped them raise the money they 
needed to continue very quickly, but it also served to point out that most 
private schools are having very real financial difficulties. In the Pittsburgh 
Press Sunday Roto last week, President Cyert admitted that he was not 
optimistic that we (C-MU) are going to be able to hold the line (on tuition 
costs) in 1974-75.
If these things really do indicate a trend, and if this trend continues, 
its not inconceivable that 50 or 60% of the high school graduates will no 
longer want to go on to higher education. Its not inconceivable that the 
costs of going to college will become so prohibitive, and the publics 
opinion of the value of a degree will become so low, that a time will come 
again when only a select few will go on to college.
Then America may wake to find that the only people getting those 
degrees are the doctors, lawyers and leaders of our country. Theyll start 
setting up those trust funds again and telling their children to study hard. 
And over at Old Ivy, at State U. and at Collegetown U.S.A* the in
tellectual community will gather round and mourn the passing of the good 
old days, when everybody went to college, nobody took their work too 
seriously, and college was stimulating, relevant and, at .the same tirne, a 
good deal of fun.
Stephen Saunders
RELEVENT ANNOUNCEMENTS
1. All candidates for Student Senate should appear 
at the TARTAN office on Wednesday, March 7, at 
4:30 pm to have their picture taken.
2. There will be a meeting of the TARTAN editorial 
board on Thursday, March 8 at 4:30 pm at the
Letters:
Editor:
I was glad to see the two articles on 
Transcendental Meditation in your paper., 
Despite a few rather amusing typographical 
or otherwise errors in the first article. One 
glaring mistake: Debby or somebody wrote 
that TM gives 30 percent rest, and sleep 
gives 200 percent. I assure you that its 
quite the opposite . TM gives 200 percent 
rest, sleep 30 percent.
Anyway, all is forgiven if you print this 
letter, proudly announcing an Introductory 
Lecture on TM at 8:00 Wednesday, March
7, at Scaife Auditorium. Believe me, TM is 
well worth the walk down to Scaife. Hear 
all about TM, right from the mouths of real 
teachers, and get a chance to learn the 
practice of TM.Its worth the trouble and 
the money to relax, freshen the mind, and, 
liven the perceptions.John Arears
Editor:
Im sick of it. Do you hear me?SICK! 
SICK! SICK! Its the staff in our tin-can 
library. Theyre driving me CRAZY! 
Theyre LOUD. Do you hear me LOUD! 
LOUD! LOUD!!! Theyre so disrespect
fully noisy that Im about to go bananas!
Everyday we have to hear every one of 
their conversations. Important things, you 
know. Like their coffee breaks or their new 
dresses. God forbijl that the telephone 
should ring because they answer it with a 
hello that would awaken the dead! Of 
course all of them have taps on their shoes 
and on tile floors you can hear them 
coming from miles away!
Then theres the maintainence crew, 
with their operetta of ash trays, trash cans, 
and scraping tables and chairs which has 
me climbing these walls! Isnt it strange 
that students should have to ask the library 
staff to shut up.
Come on, library, clean up your act.Jan Widome
continued on page 4
tartan
Editor in Chief..............Steve Saunders
Business Manager................Alice Bright
News Editor..............................Gary Singer
Features Editor . . . . Shelley Burhans
Special Editors...........................Jeff Ganek
Mina Gerall
Special Concultant . . . . Steve Jurman
Assistant News Editor . . . Debbie Siegel
News and Features Staff . . . S. Breisch
Gary Bronheim, Chris Brown 
Craig Collins, Steve Correll 
Sharon Curcio, Brandon Dula 
Marc Field, Anna Friedman 
Greg Fulton, Mike Hill 
Chris Infante, Kathy Knobloch 
Thomas Lang, Joan McClusky 
Johnny McQuire, Robin Reiter 
Ellen Steiber
Political Editor............................Jim Slivka
Photography Editors .... Ed Levine
Elliot Arons
Photography Staff .... Henry Collins 
Ellen Eddy, Bruce Edelston 
Andrea Friedman, Carl Grefenstette 
Dan Goldstein, Greg Nickel 
John Shettel, Frank Stein 
Kevin Scott, Ric Werme
The Editorial Board of the TARTAN reserves the right to edit or withhold any copy that it considers 
unfit for publication. Published every Tuesday during the academic year at Carnegie Mellon 
University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 15213. Editorial and Business offices are located in Skibo 50. 
Telephone (412) 682-4557 or extension 656.
Entertainment Editor . . Stephen Hamm 
Entertainment Staff . . Terry Caywood 
Nonie Dempsey, Arnie Karr 
Paula Shubock, Hank Levy 
Steve Perkins, Susan Klein 
Winton Snyder, Jay Corpus 
Doug Stone
Sports Editor .....................Jeff Englund
Sports Staff...................................Dan Buis
Roger Geddes, David Girdany 
Glenn Campbell, D. R. Sullivan 
Bruce Hoffman, Eric Johnson 
Sybelle Mryczko, Dave List 
Greg Mason, Jim Stvak 
Political Cartoonist . . Jimmf Margulies
Layout.....................................Erica Gees
Copy Staff .............................Mina Gerall
Cyndy Schmidt 
Business Siatf .....................Beth Bowers4*Advertising Manager . . Dwayne Smalls

---------------------------------------------------

MEWS COMMENT
THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 6, 1973-Page 3
The age of student apathy; on my high school newspaper this was the 
standard filler. When the editorial or feature page was perslstantly vacant, 
paragraphs were always available on what became known (maybe because 
/ knew / would have to give it a name someday) as the apathy syndrom. 
The more advanced media seems also to appreciate the presence of 
this topic. Endless numbers of printed pages have been devoted to con
trasting the age of revolution ,of yesteryear, with the present give me 
an education, a job, and a middle class home with three kids and a dog 
age. A little grass (pot) may have been thrown in for extra spice, but the 
medias revolution scale is definitely moving towards the 
right. Carnegie -Mellon might be cited by Walter Chronkite as a 
typical modern day American campus where only a raise in tuition or 
dormatory prices creates a stir. The presidential election was only a slight 
wave in an otherwise frozen sea. The Student Government elections 
became the most publicized and obvious joke (only five hundred people 
voted), excepting only Howdy Doody.
Once again, what has turned out to be a traditionally unimportant 
event to the majority of this campus, Student Government Elections, is 
approaching. On March 14 & 15 the student body wifi once again be asked 
to donate two minutes of their time for their school. Once again only five 
hundred students will donate these two minutes. NO! Even if only your 
pocketbooks count, this election affects you. The Tartan, WRCT,, 
Activities Board, MDC Movies, Student Gallery, C-MU  all depend on 
YOUR two minutes. These organizations consist of all the people who do 
care, who do make Carnegie -Mellon University a pleasant place for all the 
other students. These other students should at/east vote. Apathy is too 
old a disease to still persist in an advanced society like CM U.
Commentary:
Gary Singer 
News Editor
PERSONAL COMMENTARY:
by John Holobinko
The Student Government elections are 
near, but dont raise any hopes that the 
senate will be miraculously transformed 
into a viable, creative body with 
responsible leadership. Reasons are many 
why this will not happen, most of them 
inherent to the structure of student govern
ment.
The last few years have seen the SG 
evolve into a body that deals almost solely 
with those functions relating to the various 
student activities on campus, and the 
collection and allocation of fees for the 
operation of same. Its function as spokes
man for students in areas such as academic 
affairs has become virtually extinct.
The problems of SG are many. Some 
can be corrected by that body, perhaps 
others cannot. The SG has felt its popu
larity gradually decaying, and realizing the 
implications of this on its credibility, it has 
aitered its structure several times, but in a 
desultory manner. The main thrust of these 
revisions has been towards encouraging a 
greater responsibility on the part of its 
members. A complicated hierarchy of rules 
concerning members attendance, etc. has 
evolved, along with a general increase in 
membership through reapportionment, 
creation of new ex-officio members, etc.
Sadly, the senate in its dilemma has, if 
anything, decreased it efficiency with its 
modifications. In the study of group 
behavior, it is common knowledge that 
beyond a certain size a group begins to lose 
its flexibility in disseminating and digesting 
information, its ability to discuss issues, 
and its ability to come to consensus on 
solutions (make a decision). With its 
present size, the senate has, without doubt, 
passed this point. The inability to solve 
problems has resulted in their increase. 
Because of the senate's size, complex rules 
(i.e. Roberts Rules of Order to the last 
detail) have been adopted in an attempt to 
provide order to meetings that are other
wise impossible to conduct. But as the 
senate has lost its grip on student interest,
>the average life of the student senator has 
decreased to a year or less, and the time it 
takes to learn the complex procedural rules 
concerning meetings, as well as the 
questions and history that accompany any 
issue to be discussed, has increased 
considerably. Thus the conclusion is 
reached that the average senator is less able 
to. perform his duties efficiently.
As if these are not problems enough, 
more exist. Because of its size, the senate 
must rely extensively upon the leadership 
of its president, or chairman, exclusively. 
But senates structure provides built in pro
blems. The president is elected by the 
students at large, while the chairman is 
elected by the senate members. The 
president has no power over senate other 
than his single vote (no veto power), and 
any viability which may be attached to his 
position. In contrast, the chairman literally 
controls senate through control of the 
floor where discussion of all issues takes 
place. Thus either the chairman dominates 
the, senate and its president, or a strong 
president overpowers a weak chairman in 
an attempt at personal manipulation of the 
senate, through the introduction of 
numerous proposals, making of weekly 
speeches concerning senate goals, personal 
contact with senators, etc. the struggle 
between chairman and president is 
complicated and hard to recognize often not 
until after the fact. Thus precious time and 
energy is wasted in a power struggle instead 
of being utilized by a chairman and 
president who might work together if a 
different structure existed.
As a result of its problems, the student 
senate often acts in a discursive, often 
desultory manner. Emotions can replace 
rationale, and the results of senate action 
(or in many cases, inaction) can and often 
have left bad after effects on the 
university, as well as the students, faculty, 
and administration opinion of senate. 
Senate is but a semi-permanent fixture 
trapped within and isolated from re
cognizing its own problems. The hope that 
senate can solve problems relating to the 
university is a very small one indeed.
MARSWJtS
I ------------\cpen wide dont you want by grow and be Bigge* than You* RsSfiTwAs;
COMMENTARY:
The CFA Drama
by David Bandler
Though it is, as it should be, ancient 
history by now, I am still prompted to 
write you regarding the famous-incertain-circles Washingtons Birthday Shithittingfan Episode in the C-MU Drama 
Department because it should not be 
allowed to pass unnoted in the university 
community at large due to its ominous 
implications, the heat it generated, and its 
admirable resolution. Although I have been 
privy to certain hushed information, I 
must, before discussing the episode, declare 
my basic ignorance of its secret details, and 
I gladly defer a priori to any critics who 
may wish to impale me for inaccuracies or 
misrepresentation. The essence of the 
event, however, and its potential impact on 
all of us (us=the C-MU family) are rather 
less enigmatic and quite accessible to 
analysis and evaluation.
It is a compliment to all parties con
cerned that things ended much closer to 
the status quo than one would have thunk 
in the midst of the whole soup on the 22nd 
of last month. Then, Revolution and 
resignations were almost as pungent in the 
air of Fine Arts and as visible as particulate 
matter from the Schlag smokestack is so 
frequently. My purpose in writing this 
letter is to answer the challenge of this 
modern world of today by being as radical 
and puissant in my rhetoric as the subject 
demands of my conscience while having 
little to say and changing nothing. My 
thesis is that the episode was the best 
theatre here in years. I would like to con
gratulate the director, Dr. Cyert, and the 
principle actors, Dean Midani-who is my 
dissertation adviser-ar.d Earle Gister--head 
of the department which may grant me a 
Ph.D. in May--on the virtuosity of their 
performances. It was the closest stuff to 
real life Ive seen here since Guyford 
Stevers dentures dropped onto the lectern 
while he was addressing a C-MU Dames 
Luncheon in October of 1824.
If anyone had doubted prior to this 
episode that the Drama Department is the 
finest in the universe, such skepticism was 
all but annihilated by the events of the 
22nd. Jf Earle were department head at a 
continued on page 10
COMMENTARY:
Problems of Clean Air
by Harry B. Rowell,Director of Operations
Your editorial in the Tuesday, February
6, 1973 TARTAN concerning the energy 
crisis and C-MUs request for a variance 
contained statements which should be 
clarified so that the TARTAN community 
can better appreciate our present and 
projected problems. There is certainly an 
energy crisis. C-MU is committed to 
complying with environmental standards 
but we have been unable to identify a 
method which will bring us into compli
ance according to the rules established by 
the county.
The possible alternatives we have been 
exploring are (1) convert the boiler plant 
to gas, (2) install scrubbing equipment, (3) 
improve our dust collection system, (4) 
convert to oil, or (5) increase our owner
ship of the Bellefield Boiler Plant and close 
the CMU operation. If all of these fail, 
the final alternative is to erect a bag 
house, a system which facilitates the 
capture of particulate matter, and burns 
coal with a low enough sulphur content to 
lower our SO emissions to the required 
level. This alternative is exceedingly 
expensive, the unit is very susceptible to 
fire, and we would have no capability of 
attaining tighter pollution controls which 
will probably soon follow existing 
standards.
Of the alternatives outlined, number 
one is eliminated because we can not get 
gas. The companies in Pittsburgh that 
supply natural gas can not even supply new 
homes.
Number two is not a feasible solution at 
this time. Scrubbing equipment simply has 
not been improved to perform the required 
functions on a boiler plant as small as ours. 
Scrubbers are not reliable, the expense of 
operating such equipment is very high since 
they require heavy maintenance, and a 
solid waste in the form of sludge is created. 
We have not a way of disposing of the 
sludge which is also a pollutant.
Number three requires improvements in 
our present equipment. In fact, this proved 
impossible since our equipment and similar 
equipment is not efficient enough to 
continued on page 13

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 6, 1973
LETTERS:
continued from page 2 
Editor:Stephen Saunders attack on Pat Di 
Cesare in his editorial of February 20 
certainly was misdirected. Pittsburghs lack 
of a good rock concert hall is not the fault 
of Pat Di Cesare. And ticket prices of Civic 
Arena and Syria Mosque shows are, as 
Stephen stated, a result acts and their 
agents who ask more and more money. Of 
course, prices could be lowered to the level 
that local colleges charge for concerts, but 
then colleges supposedly are non-profit 
organizations; Pat Di Cesare is not. What 
kind of man would spend ten years of his 
life building a business which involves the 
constant aggravation that Pat Di Cesare 
has, without expecting to profit from 
it? Also, because Pat makes a profit, he is 
- able to bring in expensive acts such as Alice 
Cooper, Traffic, The Rolling Stones, etc.
1 hope Stephen Saunders can see from 
this letter that court action against 
promoters and concert halls is not the 
answer. The acute problem will remain 
whether Pat Di Cesare is here or not. As I 
see it, Stephens Pat Di Cesare, you stink 
editorial is merely a temper tantrum, 
thrown because he cant get to see the 
Byrds in the plush surroundings of the 
Syria Mosque.
The basic problem boils down to the 
same question which has arisen every year 
for the concert committee, that being 
What is C-MtTs obligation to the sur
rounding community?  Is a university 
allowed to offer competetition to local 
promoters? Where is Carnegies pro
moters license? College concerts are for 
the recreation of university students, and if 
Carnegie cant afford to bring the Byrds for 
Carnegie students only, then it 'should 
either reconsider Activities Board 
allocations or look for lower priced acts.
Gene Scaramuzzo H&SS 73(Editors note:I didnt mean to imply that Pat Di Cesare is to blame for the lack of a good rock concert hall in Pittsburgh. There is reason to believe that he is partially responsible for preventing us from using the only decent one.The purpose of the Activities Board is to serve the Student Body. The concert committe has determined that the Student Body wants big-name acts. As for nonstudents, Im not sure I see a reason why we shouldn't give them a break.If anyone is throwing tantrums over this, it would seem to be the promoters. The only time college concerts would be in direct competition with other promoters would when there are two major concerts on the same night, which doesnt happen very often. To otherwise discriminate against colleges just because they dont make a profit seems to me like sour grapes.
I will confess that I have a few personal biases against Pat Di Cesares taste, however. If you want to see Alice Cooper, fine. Personally, Id rather see an act with some musical talent.)
Editor:
As a student whose tuition goes to 
support, among other things, Activities 
Board, I must question the Activities 
Boards Byrds concert. I understand if the 
concert is unsuccessful, the AB may not be 
able to afford a group for Carnival.
But more importantly, I do not under
stand why the AB has even gotten involved 
in the concert promoting business. CMU 
students can purchase tickets for $5.50, 
while non-students must pay $4.50. This
means that in effect the AB is subsidizing 
any CMU student who attends one dollar. 
This means that by having nr Activities 
Board sponsor concerts, CMU students can 
attend concerts for a dollar cheaper. What 
has happened is that CMU students, 
through their tuition money that goes to 
the AB. are subsidizing non-students. 
Residents of the whole Pittsburgh 
community can now attend concerts which 
the AB sponsors at lower ticket prices than 
concerts'elsewhere. The difference between 
$6.00 (the cost of most Pat Deceaser con
certs) and $4.50 (the cost of a CMU 
concert) is what the CMU student is'sub
sidizing all non-students.
It would be cheaper and more efficient 
if the AB let each CMU student decide 
individually which concert he wanted to 
hear in Pittsburgh, and then have the AB 
subsidize just the CMU students tickets a 
dollar or so.Steven Rubinstein4
Editor:
It never ceases to amaze me as how false 
information transmitted by media can 
generate bad rumors. So before these 
rumors start, we would like to clarify last 
weeks letter to the editor and article on 
WDCs election.
First of all, 51 percent returns on an 
election is not apathy! WDCs constitution 
is the only one on campus that requires at 
least a 50 percent return on any election or 
referendum. If true representation is 
possible, we have moved closer to it this 
year than ever before.
Secondly, WDC is not a social club. This 
year the campus community has seen WDC 
means business. Anybody who has ever 
assumed a leadership position knows that it 
is a hell of a lot of work. Occassionally 
important changes are debated and im
plemented, but many times an organization 
must take care of the small chores that its 
constituents take for granted. To join anorganization with high ideals and to have 
to do the small chores too take tolerance. 
Apparently, the authors of last weeks 
letter have little tolerance for the 
necessities, nor have they confronted the 
council with their complaints.
Yet the complaints have been voiced 
(for all to hear) so we shall respond:
Everything you always wanted to know 
about WDC but were afraid to ask:
Q. Why must qualifications for the 
offices be so restrictive?
A. They arent. All one has to do is 
serve one semester on council and not have 
been dropped. This year, the Council size 
was doubled and so has the involvement.
Q. Can anyone get appointed to 
council?
A. Yes, but at this point it is unlikely. 
Several people were appointed last spring 
and this fall because we did not have a full 
council. It is interesting to note that the 
most opposing voice in council (the 
opposing candidate for president) was 
appointed by Marty Lisberger last year. 
How less discriminatory can one get?
Q. Was there a Student Handbook pub
lished this year?
A. Yes. It was distributed to all in
coming freshmen and upperclassmen and 
contained Housing regulations in addition 
to general campus information. There was 
no dormitory handbook published this 
year.
Q. Were the Vice-Presidency impeach
ment proceedings published?
A. Yes. Please refer to the Dec. 3, Jan. 
14, and Jan. 21st WDC minutes.
Q. Does WDC really do anything?
A. What a silly question for a council 
member and a regular visitor to ask! WDC 
is a strong active organization. There is 
representation on almost every floor in 
Morewood and the other resident areas. 
Every issue that has been presented to 
council has been discussed and voted on. 
The dorm residents have voted on more 
issues this year than the past two years put 
together. (Incidently, the president may 
vote only in the case of a tie, and is only an 
ex-officio member of most committees.)
Q. What has WDC done?
A. We supply kitchen facilities, type
writer, ditto machine, sewing machine, 
drug store, and vending machines. We have 
implemented equal housing rates, housing 
renovations, 24 hour parietals, co-ed 
housing and a new counselor system.
Yes, WDC is a time consuming, active, 
representative organization.Marty Lisberger, President WDC Chris Loges, Vice-President WDC Karla Salvi, Secretary, WDC Elsbeth Weichsel, Treasurer, WDC
Editor:
This comment is an effort to clarify in 
the minds of Dierdre Gavin, Marge 
Rudnick, and any other interested students 
workings of the Womens Dorm Council 
Judicial Board.
The normal procedures for Judicial are 
as follows:
1. A case, which is a complaint or 
violation of dorm rules, is brought to the 
attention of the court.
2. If the case warrants, a hearing is 
scheduled. The persons involved are 
informed and advised, in writing, of their 
rights - among these being the right to 
bring witnesses and/or visitors to the 
hearing.
3. After hearing all sides, the court 
deliberates in private- no one, other than 
the members of the court and Dean of 
Women, is allowed to be present at that 
time.
4. The person charged is informed 
immediately of the decision, both verbally 
and in writing, stating her right to appeal.
ALL records of Judicial are confi
dential.
This is the reason that the results con
cerning the case of the former WDC vice 
president were never published. Once it 
came to Judicial, the case was no longer a 
WDC matter.
The club could not air the results of 
its personal matters because no one, but 
the person charged and the justices, knew 
the particulars of the decision.
For further interest, please note that 
under the provisions of the new WDC 
constitution, the Judicial Board is a 
separate entity from the WDC Council and 
the Chief Justice is no longer a member of 
the executive board - or as it is known to a 
few - the inner circle.
Any remaining questions or comments 
in regard to the Womens Judicial Board 
may be directed to me, Baker Hall - Box 
27.Linda S. Arnold Chief Justice of the Womens Judicial Board
Editor:
Well, MDC has done it again. They have 
found a new way to frustrate their con
stituents. My MDC representative informs 
me that at the February 14th meeting, a 
motion was passed which would serve to 
divide the supply of on-campus apartments 
for the coming academic year in the 
following manner: 58% for men, 42% for 
women. The motion carried easily. Now
MDC had conducted a poll of the men on 
campus to get their opinion on the matter. 
By about two to one, the men wanted a 
proportional division of the apartments, 
which would make the division 70% to the 
men, 30% to the women, in accordance to 
the general population on campus. Our 
representatives had in fact voted against 
the expressed wishes of their constituents. 
This is an intolerable situation. People 
who do not have the faculties to 
comprehend the meaning of their own poll, 
have no right to serve as representatives on 
MDC. Perhaps we shall remember this 
incident when the next election rolls 
around.Walter E. Stalzer Chemical Engineering 75
Editor:
Concerning Mike Garls and John 
Holobinkos disagreement about the 
history of the AAB. Im afraid Mike is 
quite correct. The AAB was indeed created 
as a political concession. It was the year 
Michael Armentraut ran for President. I 
cant remember for sure, but I think it was 
against Joe Duckworth. The job was 
created so that Michael would withdraw 
from the race, and from that time on it has 
been perfectly useless as a real student 
input.
I can understand Johns position. Ive 
had a similar status on campus design 
committees for 5 years now. Each year my 
input to these committees becomes more 
and more effective, but there are no formal 
student inputs to me. If student 'govern
ment would concede to operating in a 
looser mode with their administration 
representatives, and would rely on their 
capabilities as representatives, the senate 
might realize a more efficient operation.
I think John would agree that it is 
ludicrous to explain hours of work to 30 
people in a few minutes and expect valu
able criticism from those people. There is 
no reason to believe that 30 ignorant 
people can do a better analysis than one 
educated person.
As to the Gary Strauss move; Gary 
never intended to dissolve student govern
ment. But Len Wanitek was serious about 
it in 1968. In fact Len almost won the 
election.Gerry Glaser
Editor:
MIDTERMS are: overburdening
pressure and nervousness, 
nights short of sleep, 
bad moods, cramming, cutting 
corners and general ill will.
COLLEGE IS EDUCATION 
MIDTERMS ARE NOT 
WHY MIDTERMS?
GOD BLESS (HELP) THE SYSTEM
Gary Bronheim
-liking math or history a lot and getting 
hints that boys are turned off by smart 
girls.
-being absolutely convinced that you 
are a clod, a goon, a dog, a schlep, a flop, 
and an utter klutz.
-discovering that what seems like every
thing worthwhile doing in life isnt 
feminine, and learning to just delight in 
being feminine and nice-and feeling 
somehow guilty.
-swinging down the street feeling good 
and smiling at people and being hassled like 
a piece of meat in return.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, March 6, 1973Page 5
ANNOUNCEMENTS
This year's Convocation Series features a
series of six Mozart Cycle concerts, in 
which the composer's major violin and 
piano sonatas are being performed. Playing 
in the fifth concert will be violinist Sidney 
Harth, head of the department of music, 
and pianist Nelson Whitaker, associate pro
fessor of music at CMU. Convocation 
Series programs are held each Thursday 
during the school year and include perfor
mances and concert-lectures by faculty, 
guests and outstanding students. The final 
Mozart Cycle concert will be performed by 
Mr. Harth and Leo Smit April 12.
Meeting for Pre-Medical Students - Wed
nesday* March 7th, 7:00 in Skibo 45. A 
group of former CMU students who are 
now at Pitt Medical School will present 
their views on preparation for medical 
school, etc. Refreshments.
Two renowned Jewish scholars will speak
at Carnegie-Mellon University this spring in 
lectures honoring the Declaration of 
Human Rights. Dr. Milton R. Konvitz, 
professor of law at Cornell University, will 
deliver the firs! address Monday, March 19, 
and Dr. David Daube, professor of law at 
the University of California at Berkeley, 
will speak Tuesday, April 10. The two-part 
lecture series honoring the 25th anni
versary of the Declaration of Human 
Rights is being sponsored jointly by 
Carnegie-Mellon University and the United 
Jewish Federation of Pittsburgh, under a 
grant from the UJF. Both lectures are at 
8:00 p.m. in the Wherrett Room, Skibo 
Hall, Carnegie-Mellon. For the initial 
lecture, Dr. Konvitz will talk on Biblical 
Foundations of Human Rights."
Playwright James L. Rosenberg, professor
and director of graduate studies in drama 
at Carnegie-Mellon University, will discuss 
"The Theatre as Game: Strategies of 
Performance" Wednesday, March 7 as part 
of the College of Fine Arts Lecture Series. 
Professor Rosenberg's talk will be the third 
in the series, inaugurated this year to 
explore the relationship between artistic 
theory and practice. The lecture will be at 
8 p.m. in the College of Fine Arts Faculty 
Room. It is free and open to the public. On 
March 14, Professor Rosenberg again will 
participate in the lecture series, presenting 
a talk entitled "Bottom, Thou Art 
Translated! Translation as Art and as 
Craft."
On Friday, March 16, 1973 at 6 p.m., Gay
Alternatives Pittsburgh will sponsor its 
First Anniversary Dinner and Dance to 
celebrate one year in existence. It will be 
held at the First Unitarian Church, 
Ellsworth and Morewood Avenues in 
Shadyside. Tickets for the affair, costing 
$3.00 per person, are available.by sending a 
check or money order, accompanied by a 
self-addressed, stamped envelope to GAP, 
P.O. Box 10236, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15232. 
They are also available through GAP 
members or by calling 243-1783. Reserva
tions must be received by March 10, 1973. 
Tickets for the dance only, which will 
begin at 9 p.m., are available at the door 
for a donation of $1.00
HARRY CHAPIN, the 1973 Billboard
Trend-Setter Award Winner, will be 
featured in concert for two shows, 8:00 
and 10:30 p.m., at the Chatham College 
Gymnasium, Woodland Road, on Friday, 
March 9th. Also on the show will be 
Moonshine, a two piece acoustic act. 
Tickets are $3.00 at the Duquesne, 
Carnegie-Mellon, Chatham and University 
of Pittsburgh student unions
One of the nation's foremost authorities on
industrial development, Dr. Seymour 
Melman, will discuss "The Challenge and 
Threat of Economic Conversion at an 
address sponsored by the Pittsburgh 
Coalition on National Priorities on March 7 
at 8:30 p.m. at the Pittsburgh YWCA, 
Fourth and Wood Street. Dr. Melman is a 
professor of Industrial Engineering at 
Columbia University and author of many 
works on industrial development including 
"Our Depleted Society" and "The Peace 
Race. Dr. Melman will explore the prog
nosis for the U.S. economy and the 
potential for social reform following the 
United States' disengagement from the 
Indochina War. There will be no charge for 
student admission to the speech by Dr. 
Melman.
Tired of the typical mixers? Then come
to the Pi Kappa Alpha Fraternity for a 
coffee house, March 2nd from 9:00 to 
12:00 p.m. No admission chargefree 
refreshments. Just a change. Open to 
public.
The Housing Office is now taking*
applications for apartment accom
modations for this summer. Available on a 
first come-first served basis are seven (7) 
one-bedroom and three (3) two-bedroom 
apartments in Woodlawn and Morewood 
Gardens. To reserve one of these 
accommodations for the summer, a 
resident need only provide a $50.00 
deposit. Stop in the Housing Office now 
for details.
Parking Committee needs a student
representative. If you don't like the 
parking and want to do something about it 
contact Mike Garl, Skibo 103.
Plants in Art: 500 Years of Botanical
Art is the theme of an exhibit on botan
ical art to be seen at the Erie Public 
Museum from March 4 through April 1. 
The exhibit, sponsored by the Pennsylvania 
Department of Education, is free and open 
to the public. A special selection of more 
than 40 works has been chosen from the 
renowned collection of the Hunt Institute 
for Botanical Documentation at CarnegieMellon University in Pittsburgh. Included 
in the show are woodcuts, etchings, 
engravings, watercolors and replicas of 
some of the earliest plant drawings 
produced by Western man. The exhibit 
shows the historical development and the 
variety of media used to reproduce botan
ical art, and includes the work of artists 
such as Ehret, Bessler, and Redoute, who 
are respected for both their scientific and 
aesthetic achievements. The exhibit is on 
tour this spring to six Pennsylvania 
museums.
The fourth in a series of lectures featuring
noted American writers will be held 
Tuesday, March 6, at Carnegie-Mellon 
University. The lecturer will be Fred 
Chapell, novelist, poet, and writer-inresidence at the University of North 
Carolina at Greensboro. He will read from 
his own works in Breed Hall of Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie College at 11:30 a.m. 
The lecture, sponsored by the CMU depart
ment of English, is free and open to the 
public. Mr. Chappell has lived and worked 
most of his life in North Carolina and is 
regarded as one of that state's outstanding 
writers. Among his novels are "The 
Inkling", "Dagon" and "It is Time, Lord". 
His latest novel, "The Gaudy Place", will 
be pre-released in Pittsburgh for his visit 
here March 5 through 8. "The World 
Between the Eyes", a book of poetry, w^s 
published in 1971.
SCHUBERT'S DIE SCHONE MULLERIN
AT CHATHAM COLLEGE. Kenneth 
Daubner, tenor and Judith Adams, pianist 
will give a complete performance of 
Schubert's most famous song cycle, "Die 
Schone Mullerin", on Sunday, March 11 at
8 p.m. in the Music Center of Chatham 
College. Admission to this concert is free 
and open to the public.
Attention to all Student Organizations!
The TARTAN is now distributing an order 
form for advertising. If your organization 
wishes to place an ad in the paper, please 
fill out one of these forms and deliver it to 
the TARTAN office, room 50 Skibo. These 
forms can be picked up in the TARTAN 
office and at the information desk in 
Sk ibo.
Attention Seniors: The Alumni Associa
tion's annual senior parties will be held on 
the following dates. All programs are in the 
Faculty Dining Room.
Monday, March 12th at 5:45 p.m. for Fine 
Arts seniors.
Thursday, March 15th at 4:45 p.m. for 
H&SS and MMCC seniors.
Friday, March 16th at 4:45 p.m. for MIS 
seniors.
Monday, March 19th at 4:45 p.m. for CIT 
seniors.
Seniors should present an I.D. card at the 
Alumni Office, 5th floor of Warner Hall in 
order to get tickets. Please stop in as soon 
as possible for tickets and more 
information.
Attention Foreign Students. Applications
are now available for the 17th Annual 
Williamsburg International Assembly, June 
3-6, 1973. If you intend to return home at 
the conclusion of the present academic 
year and have completed at least one year 
of graduate-level study, you are eligible to 
apply. Deadline for applications is March 
31, 1973. For details see the Foreign 
Student Advisor, 207 Warner Hall.
I am attempting to accumulate some
meaningful data for a serious study on 
American communes. To that end, I wish 
to reach as many communes as possible. I 
will be grateful if students, graduate and 
undergraduate, who are living in communal 
situations, will write me indicating willing
ness to receive a questionnaire and/or to be 
interviewed. Size of commune is unim
portant; 3 or 4 people, up to any number. 
Mae T. Sperber, 26 West 9th Street, 9E, 
New York, New York 10011.
U.S. Attorney Richard L. Thornburgh will
discuss the American criminal justice 
system Tuesday, March 6, at CarnegieMellon University. Mr. Thornburgh's talk is 
sponsored by the School of Urban and 
Public Affairs and the Graduate School of 
Industrial Administration (GSIA). The 
4:00 p.m. speech in the GSIA auditorium 
is free and open to the public. Mr. 
Thornburgh, 40, was named U.S. Attorney 
for the Western District of Pennsylvania by 
President Nixon in June, 1969. A graduate 
of Yale University and the University of 
Pittsburgh Law School, he previously had 
been engaged in the private practice of law 
in Pittsburgh.
Want to earn some money? Student
Government needs people to help run the 
polls on March 15 & 16. If you are 
interested contact Student Senate Rules 
Committee, Skibo 103. Pay is $1.00 per 
hour.
The Vedanta Society of Pittsburgh will
present two lectures by Swami 
Bhashyananda, of the Vivekananda 
Vedanta Society of Chicago. "Sri 
Ramakrishna: the Prophet of Harmony" is 
the topic Sunday, March 11, 1973, 8:15 
p.m; "Meditation" will be presented 
Monday, March 12, 1973 at 7:30 p.m. 
Both lectures will be given at the Uni
versity and City Ministries (UACM), 4401 
Fifth Avenue, Oakland, Pittsburgh and 
admission is free.
Student Government will have a poster
making party Tuesday, March 6 at 8:30 in 
the Wherrett Room. All candidates for 
office are asked to attend, everyone is 
welcome to come and ask the candidates 
questions.
The CMU Child Cmre Center now has full
time (7:30 a.m. - 5:30 p.m.) and part-time 
openings for three, four, and five year old* 
children of CMU faculty, staff, alumni and 
students. The Center is located in More
wood Gardens (enter from the parking lot). 
For further information call 687-6394 
(office hours 3:30-5:30 p.m.).
There will be a general meeting of the AB
Lecture Committee Thursday, March 8 at 
4:30 in the AB office in Skibo.
"Glass", an exhibition of blown glass by
undergraduate and graduate student glassblowers, is the next show scheduled for the 
Carnegie-Mellon University Students' 
Gallery, 5200 Forbes Avenue. The 
exhibition opens Wednesday, February 28, 
and will run through Saturday, March 10. 
The Gallery is open to the public Tuesday 
through Saturday from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 
p.m. (with the exception of opening night, 
when the Gallery wilf be open from 8:00 
p.m. to 10:00 p.m. only). The CMU 
Students' Gallery, a nonprofit organ
ization, is managed by the students of 
Carnegie-Mellon University and shows 
primai iIv the work of CMU students.
CLASSIFIED ADS
WANTED: Theses to type. Technical
typing a specialty, ext. 132Dorothy.
Draft Counselling provided by Attorney
without charge. Sponsored by B'nai B'rith 
Hillel Foundation, 315 S. Bellefield 
Avenue, 3rd floor. Every Tuesday evening
7 to 8:30 p.m. 621 -8875.
For Sale-Guitar. Harmony Rocket hollow
body electric. Easy to play. Soft case, cord, 
capo and picks included. $45. About $110 
new. I need the money to pay for the 
Yamaha FG-600 I just bought. Inquire at 
TARTAN office or call 687-3713. Ask for 
Steve Saunders.
WANTEDLionel 0.027, Super 0 and
standard gauge trains. Call 335-7922 after
7 p.m.
LOST Wednesday night, Feb. 22-
bet ween GSIA and Hunt Library on Frew 
St. 12" x 14" needlepoint canvas, red 
white, and blue-in plastic bag along with 
needles and thread. Carolyn Goldberg, ext. 
414,249._____________________________
PERSONALS
Anna,
Well kid, time has run out. The de 
has been made and there will be no ti 
back. You made your bed, now sleep

---------------------------------------------------

eye -THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 6, iy/cJ
16 Millemeter ProgramParticipatory Democracy 
An Alien in Pittsburgh ?
by Susan Monroe
Due to the increasing interest in the film 
industry, students are out shopping for 
schools with programs that will fit their 
individual needs and goals in this area. Dr. 
Concetta Greenfield, of the CMU English 
Department, has her doctorate in film, and 
believes an undergraduate film program to 
be possible at CMU with interdepartmental 
cooperation, in light of existant facilities 
and interest.
The English department has recently 
launched a program of 4 film courses and 2 
mini courses dealing with film, all of which 
have a high registration ratio. These are 
financed through charging the students 
four or five dollars (which would have been 
spent on books). Films for the courses are 
rented through libraries and film rental 
catalogues. In a recent class of 45 students, 
sixteen submitted films, two of which were 
excellent, according to Dr. Greenfield, who 
teaches the film courses along with 
Beekman Cottrell and William McTaggart.
She indicated that film interest on 
campus filters into a variety of extra
curricular activities, including the Film 
Arts Society, the Mens Dorm Council and 
the Activities Board, all coordinating a 
variety of films. The Film Workshop is 
involved in the practical aspect of the field, 
meeting Wednesday nights in Skibo to view 
films, to learn to operate the equipment, 
and otherwise gain technical knowledge 
under the direction of Jim Oppenheimer. 
Equipment and assistance are available, 
here, to those interested. The Student 
Activities Board is also involved in the 
workshop, offering twenty $200 grants to 
students annually for use in making 
independent films to be shown in the April 
Film Festival.
Dr. Greenfield talked of the feasibility 
of an interdisciplinary program through 
integrating the existant structure and 
courses. These could be combined, she 
said, to benefit students in set design, 
photography, drama, playwriting, criticism, 
anguages, history and English; film itself 
is an interdisciplinary art. She emphasized 
that we have the student interest, the 
technical knowledge and equipment, a 
studio for beginners to experiment in, and 
a fine staff, available and willing to teach 
the courses.
As one of the planners of the Selma
9 o?10
People 
Never think 
Of Joining
THE PEACE CORPS
Hey Number 10
Ken Wants To 
Talk To You
SKIBO
Concetta Greenfield.
Burke Arts Center in East Liberty, she 
expressed an interest in creating a liaison 
between CMU and the Center, where 
undergraduates could take film courses. 
With a membership fee of $50, students 
would have full use of the studio and 
equipment there.
Dr. Greenfield recently attended the 
MLA convention in New York, as a 
representative for the film program at 
CMU. She said of the convention, The 
section on film and literature was very 
active this year. Representatives of all 
major universities discussed the need for 
creating film programs within the realm of 
the humanities (thus preventing their 
becoming too technical). Demand for film 
programs is high, while the actual programs 
are relatively few. The University of Illinois 
is acting as a leading program, right now, 
publishing information on and outlines of 
film programs. The demand exists at CMU, 
as well; CMU should stay behind this wave 
of interest.
She teels that with the innovative 
educational changes being made under the 
new CMU administration, where 
unproductive elements are being cut out of 
the school, a balancing process is now 
possible, including the broadening of 
existant programs in response to the 
demand from students. She states that 
what is needed to coordinate this program 
is the cooperation of department heads and 
a committee to organize a budget and 
approve the program. She emphasized that 
expenses could be cut down, to a great 
extent, by using the Arts Center facilities.
(Editors note: Watch for the poll of student interest in film and film programs in the next issue of the TARTAN.)_______________________
Reiter Wins 
VIH Award
A junior drama student at CarnegieMellon University, Robin Reiter, has won a 
Vira 1. Heinz travel award of $1,500 to 
study the theatre in England and Scotland 
this summer.
Ms. Reiter, of North Miami, Florida, 
will participate in a nine-week English 
Summer Theatre School operated by the 
University of Washington. She will attend 
classes in speech, British dialect, and 
movement and rehearse for a full pro
duction. Twelve college credits are awarded 
upon completion of the work.
The Vira I. Heinz awards for summer 
travel are made each year to junior girls
by Chris Infante
The Alumni Office recently invited 
David W. Craig, attorney, former Pitts
burgh Safety Director and Adjunct 
Professor of Urban Law and Administra
tion to speak at the CMU Forum held on 
February 22nd. Craigs topic was 
Participatory Democracy is a Failure. It 
might have labeled more appropriately 
From Flaherty to Fascism, for while his 
introductory and closing points were a call 
to rally behind the party of ones choice, 
the body of his speech concentrated on the 
Mayor of Pittsburgh, Peter Flaherty. 
(Flaherty gained office for his anti-political 
party stand.)
Candidate Flaherty, he said, 
promised to walk the streets as mayor, 
have an open door and personally attend to 
the needs of the residential neighbor
hoods. . . . But the new mayor has hidden 
himself from people and press and closed 
his doors except to his own relatives and a 
couple of personal friends. What followed 
was, to say the least, illuminating, 
especially to those of us who will be voting 
for mayor this spring. Craig explained that 
Mr. Flaherty put his brother-in-law on the 
Stadium Authority, his brother on the 
Auditorium Authority and his executive 
secretary was made chairman of the Urban 
Redevelopment Authority.
The speakers reason for picking on 
Pittsburghs mayor is simple; he has 
proved to be a remarkable example of a 
non-party politician who has disregarded 
the rule of law and put himself above the 
law. For example he cited the following 
instance: over the school integration issue 
Flaherty urged defiance of the State 
Human Relation Law and the Commission; 
upon first entering office he violated 
several civil service laws in trimming the 
city payroll for which the courts had to 
correct him in several cases; some city 
employees were fired a few months prior 
to reaching pension entitlement including 
two handicapped people, while young girls 
were hired to sit in the lobby of city hall; 
he has also fired the cleaning women, the 
lowest paid city employees. According to 
Mr. Craig, the mayors own office budget 
has increased by 25%!
Craig then proceed to give a roster of 
the less publicized ways in which Flaherty 
has violated the law. He has, claimed Craig, 
flagrantly defied the ordinances adopted 
by City Council. The mayor has done this 
largely in rapid transit matters. Ignoring 
City Councils ordinances he attempted to 
prevent the work being started on the 
Wabash Tunnel. One of the means he used 
was police cars until the appellate courts 
corrected him. The mayor has also fought, 
contrary to City Councils position, against 
the transit expressway, waging a $44,000 
legal battle. More recently he is trying to 
keep the Port Authority Transit (PAT) 
from remodeling its own M.t. Washington 
Tunnel, which is used for buses. The 
Administration is so confident, he re
iterated, that it does not wait for court
from seven Pittsburgh-area colleges and 
universities. The seven 1973 winners will 
be honored at a private luncheon March 3.
Ms. Reiter was chosen as the CMU 
winner over several other applicants on the 
basis of a written statement of her purpose 
in studying abroad.
decisions or the regular process of law; it 
uses the tactic of. .. blocking the 
apartment construction project with 
building inspection cars, and recently, in 
order to collect taxes, blocking parking lots 
with city cars.
This, he claims, is the record of some 
of the most successful hoaxes ever per
petrated on the public. That is the record 
of the most popular politician of our 
region, who is popular because he is anti
party and has the illusion of being 
non-politician, said Craig, likening 
Flaherty to a demagogue.
Beyond the Flaherty regime, however, 
David Craig failed to make his main 
pointthat is that public participation 
always creates a dictatorship through 
demagogueryconvincing. He began by 
saying that the nature of participatory 
democracy of the 60s was essentially a 
protest against established political parties 
but, he added, these instances where 
government is confronted by individuals 
prove participatory democracy a failure. 
He used the Kent State murders as the 
most notorious example of people who 
participated in politics and directly con
fronted those in power. He also believes 
that the poor marches in Washington also 
failed, and that the black movement is now 
fragmented.
However, his ultimate disillusionment in 
participatory democracy rests in the con
sequences of having elected a non-party 
affiliated mayor. When a community or a 
nation turns its back on the political party 
system and puts one-man leadership in 
power, there is always the danger of 
creating a demagogue who will use that 
power for his personal aggrandizement, 
with no party mechanism to control his 
abuses of power. His pro-party argument 
relied on the fact that party leaders are 
subject to restraints in the party. Craig 
commented that such a police-state tactic 
has escaped criticism is the most amazing 
and frightening aspect of all,LL as the real 
essence of participatory democracy 
demands a concerned, aware public not the 
apathy that prevails.
He ended with the recognition that 
party organizations are imperfect and often 
frustrating but they can work to restrain 
the demagogue. The virtue of party 
responsibility, he explained, is that a 
party which wishes to remain in power 
must exert itself to please a whole range of 
elements in society.
His concluding questions to the 
audience invited strong consideration: Are 
we really, as a people, developing a liking 
for fascism because we feel that the 
complexities and inequities of society can 
be dealt with only by a strong-man? Is 
there reason for concern when most of the 
people of the community elevate an 
individual above and above politics?
What Craig suggest is that only a govern
ment of laws can save us from being 
subjected to a government by men, 
especially strong men. But since men make 
the laws, is there really any differ
ence? Craig did express the feeling that, 
though he thinks obedience to written law 
is the best assurance of equality, some laws 
are silly and burdensome, and that 
participatory democracy is important as it 
can bring about change more readily when 
someone is not held by party reins.
Pittsburgh Sponsors A GAY DIMMER AMD DAMCE to celebrate GAPs' First Anniversary 
FRIDAY, MARCH 16, 1973........6 P.M.
Hear a complete history of GAPalso a Tickets $3.00 per person. Write GAP, P. O.
surprise guest speakerat First Unitarian Box 10234, Pgh., Pa. IS23J. Enclose check or
Church, Ellsworth and Morewood Avenues money order with self-addressed, stamped
in Shadyside. envelope.
DANCE ONLY TICKETS $1.00 AT THE DOOR-9 P.M.
> CALL 243 1783 FOR MORE INFORMATION O '
O 
O

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday. March 6, 1973^-Page 7
- Writers Using Neon Rather Than Ink
by Anne Friedman
Stanley Elkin, professor at Washington 
University and author of The Dick Gibson
F>Show, The Bad Man and many short 
stories, was a visiting professor and lecturer
in C-MUs English department during the 
week of February 20th. In speaking of his 
own career Elkin said, This is going to 
sound arrogant, but one does what one can 
do. If one can do a triple somersault on a 
trapeze, he will be in the circus. When 
' English teachers patted me on the head and 
said good composition, I realized that this 
was more furi than math and kept on 
writing.
style! The only way he sees to help young 
writers is to help them to invent, imagine, 
and discuss situations endlessly.
Concerning a trend in novels, Elkin 
believes that it is heading in a bad 
direction. Novels are becoming too noisy, 
too gluminescent. They are trying too hard 
to imitate other media, and are writing 
with neon rather than ink, he said. As for 
his own personal preferences he admires 
the work of William Gass, Sau! Bellow, and William Irevor. He particularly admires 
writers who do things that he cant do. 
Elkin explained that he can only deal with 
the bizarre, and is not a very realistic 
writer. He admires those writers who can 
handle the ordinary for the thing that he 
would most like to do is make the reader 
cry. I cant do that unless I hit the reader 
over the head with the book! he 
commented.
In his own writing Elkin believes in such 
a thing as Muse, a subconscious from which 
his stories will come. Stories will come to 
him at once or not all. Novels are 
different, he explained. With novels Elkin 
begins with a character who has got to have 
some sort of interesting job. How a person 
makes his living is very important to him. 
His characters make their livings in peculiar 
ways, professional wrestler, department 
store owner, and a radio man. His next 
novel will be about a man who owns 
various franchises. Sort of thing that 
makes roadside America like roadside 
America, said Elkin.________________
Stanley Elkin, author of 'The Dick Gibson Show' and the latest Photo by Henry Collins
visiting writer.
Yet concerning the teaching process of 
creative writing, Elkin had strong views. He 
definitely feels that creative writing must 
be taught, but cant be taught. Writing 
courses can give one critical intelligence, 
deadline, company and and unathletic 
team spirit. It is necessary to give 
confidence, point out strengths, and 
indicate weaknesses to those who have 
talent. The trouble comes when too many 
people who dont really have talent, take writing courses. Elkin agrees with the 
statement, that universities dont dis
courage writers enough. He believes that 
too many people are in the field as an 
academic dodge.
Elkins own style of conducting writing
courses is one of situations. His students 
submit as many situations as possible for 
stories and the class discusses them. Elkin 
is interested in a sense of story and 
imagination from his students. A sense of
style will ultimately follow; this can never
be taught, he said. This worked in his 
case. He had been writing stories for many 
years, had a few published, yet there was 
no internal evidence in early stories that he 
ha^ a style of his own. One summer, he 
started writing and suddenly he saw a
CMU Prepares for
//Up Your Image'
/
Dr. Pauline Bart, University of Illinois.
by Barbara Hobbs
On Thursday, March 15, Up Your 
Image: A Program on the Problems and 
Potentials of Women in Contemporary 
Society will be presented all day in Skibo. 
Up Your Image is sponsored by the 
Programming Fund and the Student 
Activities Office; special sponsors are the 
Womens Dormitory Council and the 
I- YWCA of Carnegie-Mellon University. 
Hopefully, Up Your Image will not be 
just another one of those womens lib 
things, but instead a comprehensive 
program including films, speakers and 
workshops. The program will be open to 
both women and men.
Working with the assumption that a 
great portion of our attitudes are based on& ingrained knowledge ( how we stereotype 
others, what roles we automatically expect 
others to assume), the intent of Up Your 
Image is to observe the progress, and the 
problems, that contemporary women have 
come across in their attempts to change, 
understand, or merely continue the course 
of their everyday lives. Hopefully, there 
will be dialogue between men and women 
concerning the direction and potential of 
women.
The following films will be shown in the 
Wherrett Room between 10:30 a.m. and 
1:00 p.m.: Breakfast Dance, Do
Blondes Have More Fun?, Windy Day, 
The Womans Film, Anything You 
Want to Be, Genesis 3:16, Schmeerguntz, British Womans Film, Sweet 
) Bananas. From 6:30 to 9:00 p.m., in 
addition to selections from the above 
listing, Growing Up Female, and '50 
Best Advertisements of 68-69, 70-71, 
72-73 will also be shown.
From 1:00 to 1:50 p.m. in the Wherrett 
Room, Linda Goldstein, formerly a pro
duction assistant for KDKA. and presently 
a political reporter for WQEDs (Public 
) Broadcasting System) Newsroom show.
will give a speech entitled The Medium is 
the Message: But How is the Message 
Created? And from 4:00 to 5:00 p.m. in 
the Wherrett Room, Dr. Pauline Bart, a 
member of the Department of Psychiatry 
at the University of Illinois Abraham 
Lincoln Medical School, and a member of 
the American Sociological Association and 
Sociologists for Women in Society, will 
give a speech entitled Psychiatry of 
Women: Madness and Normalcy.
Between 2:00 and 3:50 p.m. there will 
be five different workshops going in 
various parts of Skibo; these workshops 
will deal with specific areas of con
temporary life.
Women: A New Biological Per
spective will be guided by Marilyn 
Goldsmith, a member of the Department 
of Biology at the University of Pittsburgh. 
Ms. Goldsmith will discuss a womans 
biological perspective of the female body, 
and the facts and myths about biological 
functions. A gynecologist will be present 
along with Ms. Goldsmith to provide 
information on self-examination, birth 
control, and venereal disease. (Skibo 
Wherrett Room, 2:00-2:50 p.m.).
Life Styles-An Open Classroom 
Situation will be composed of three parts: 
Living Together-Unmarried, guided by 
two CMU students; Communal Living, 
guided by a man and a woman from a 
Pittsburgh commune; and Gay Life Styles, 
guided by Cathy Cook, co-chairperson of 
Gay Alternatives Pittsburgh, and Jim 
Huggins of PERSAD, a community mental 
health clinic for sexual minorities. (Skibo, 
Room 46, 2:00 -2:50 p.m.).
Education-The Molding Process will 
be guided by Helene Borke, Assistant 
Professor of Child Development and 
Psychology, CMU, and Joan Burstyn, 
Director of Teacher Education and 
Assistant Professor of Psychology, CMU.
Their discussion will center around the 
school system as it exist today-the 
teachers, attitudes, textbooks, and extra
curricular delineation-and ways to change 
it. (Skibo, Room 56, 2:00-2:50 p.m.).
Legal Rights for Women will be 
guided by Ruth Beach, Director of the 
Affirmative Action Office, CMU and Tom 
Kerr, Head of the Administration and 
Management Science Department, Lecturer 
in Industrial Administration and Law. 
President of the American Civil Liberties 
Union of Pennsylvania, and a prominent 
supporter of individual rights and respons
ibilities. Ms. Beach will discuss the nature 
and expectations of the Affirmative Action 
Office; Mr. Kerr will discuss the equal 
rights amendment, new divorce laws in 
Pennsylvania, the Supreme Court abortion 
iuling, and the structure of the law 
for/against women. (Skibo, Room 45, 
3:00-3:50 p.m.).
How to Beat the System-Career 
Opportunities will be guided by Irene 
Pasinsky, a CMU graduate, and President of 
Irene Pasinsky Assoc., Industrial Designers; 
Jane Cookson, a CMU graduate, formerly 
with Gulf Oil, and presently Vice-President 
of C.S. McKee & Co., Stockbrokers; and 
Shirley Angrist, an Associate Professor in 
the School of Urban and Public Ait airs, 
CMU. Primarily, they will be offering 
personal views of what they have had to go 
through to get where they are today. 
(Skibo, Room 39, 3:00-3:50 p.m.).
And if all this isnt enough for you, 
there is more: a week-long exhibit in Skibo 
Lobby: posters, buttons, books and
literature for sale in Skibo; and the film 
Growing Up Female will be shown in 
conjunction with Professor Mary Gordon i 
history class, on March 14, 1:30 p.m. in 
Breed Hall. The film, like everything else. is 
open to the entire campus community.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 6, 1973
Looking Back on Tech'Glory Days
/
by Sharon Curcio
Turn back a few decades to the time 
when Andrew Carnegie intently watched 
his growing trade school. Hail Carnegie 
sounded while Uncle Andy perused the 
corridors of Industries Hall and a sheet 
metal banner of electric lights blazed the 
Tartan plaid. In 1910, each of 2,224 
students attending Tech paid $75 tuition 
per semester, mindful that Uncle Andy 
supplemented each dollar with $4.60; not 
until the fall of 1928 did tuition double to 
$150 per term.
The Scottish flavor of Tech was repre
sented by more than the Tartan plaid, as 
department schedule cards signified the 
engineering school with blue, the Maggie 
Murphs with yellow, the industrial 
tradesmen with green, Fine Arts with red, 
and the library school with brown. The | 
Scotch pervasiveness was an everyday 
aroma; freshmen were compelled to sport ' 
plaid tammies, the Kiltie band struck up an 
occasional Scottish tune, and the emblem- | 
atic Thistle and Tartan recalled images of | 
Scotland. One unpalatable exception to 
these romanticisms was naming Jhe Kiltie 
Cafes forerunner the beanery.
Founded as a trade school. Techs most 
essential building was Industries Hall or the 
present Baker Hall because its multi-wing 
design provided three walls of light for the 
various trade shops and laboratories. The 
Industrial school featured pattern-making, 
foundry techniques, methods of iron 
working such as casting, welding, and 
forging, with carpentry and masonry, as 
well as plumbing, pipe-fitting, and elec
trical shops. Freshmen were urged to pour 
molten metals with caution since upper
classmen did not appreciate the smell of 
burning flesh. Shop credits were required 
for juniors thus) both the engineers and 
tradesmen donned overalls to earn three 
credits for two hours of actual shop work 
per week. The shop.hours were productive 
however, as a team of construction trades
men annually built a practice house, the 
mills of Machinery Hall or the present 
Hammerschlag Hall rolled steel, and the 
practical miners pushed coal cars out of a 
mine four stories underground located 
behind what is now Warner Hall. The 
practical trades flourished during Techs 
Wonder Years but soon ink smudges 
replaced the dirty scars of the technical 
students hands.
A Tartan piper pipes.
From the seeds of the rah-rah era^ Tech 
sprouted in this All-American football 
heyday as a gridiron marvel of the late 20s 
and early 30s. The architects during this 
period were exceptionally versatile with
Harold Harpster commanding the Tartan 
squad and folk-singer Robert Schertz 
bolstering the team spirit with his 
composition ot the "Tech Song. A1 
Minetti lead the twelve minute Institute 
Yell and finished this half-time per
formance with a mid-field somersault. 
Replacing the conventional pep rally 
bonfire with carfires, Tech students not 
only antagonized the policemen and 
Yiremen but usually incited pre-game 
clashes with the authorities. Mr. Carl J. 
Long, an active alumni and electrical 
engineer who has founded his own 
company, Carl J. Long and Associates, 
amusingly recalled how Dean Tarbell 
reliably appeared at the police head
quarters to release students involved in 
these brawls whatever the A.M.
The Tartans made their greatest gridiron 
impression as they ground the football into 
the muddy endzones of Forbes Field three 
times to defeat Notre Dame 19-0 in 1926. 
The Rockne-esque coach of the unprece
dented brawling Scotsmen was Judge 
Walter P. Steffens. The week before their 
encounter with Notre Dame, Judge 
Steffens isolated his team in a football 
camp retreat to censor the presss pre
diction ol a Notre Dame triumph frqpi his 
players ears. He then conditioned out of
SHELHT REI,,
3Real
.
Milk Shakes
45*
0124 ENTR AI4 MN41R- 0ilk, 1n2 SyNup
the Tartans any fear concerning the power
ful Irish image, and urged them to play the 
game man to man. Steffens psycho
logical maneuver was profound; Notre 
Dame lost fourteen yards to the Tartan 
forces in the lirst play. Two years later the 
Tartans trounced Notre Dame in a game 
which not only opened the season but also 
their new university stadium in South 
Bend. Harpster was Techs Gipper; this 
drop kick specialist and masterful quarter
back edged the ball to the Tartan goalpost 
with flawless strategy and became one of 
the all-American eleven of 1928. Techs 
invitation to the Rose Bowl withered when 
the Tartans lost the final game of that 
season to N.Y.U.; players on both teams 
collapsed during that scathing battle and an 
N.Y.U. star never regained consciousness. 
Football was brutalism; the flimsy uni
forms gave little protection to the eleven 
men who were the only team in an era 
without specialized offensive and defensive 
units.
A football-related Tech first was the 
scouting of future gridiron opponents with 
15 millimeter cameras. Mr. Long was one 
of the first scouts; a traveling football 
researcher, he packed reels and equip
ment, ready to film at a moments notice. It 
was a good time. And the Tartan spirit 
 persists quietly as it undergoes the 
metamorphosis of each era. Looking for 
the heyday . .. held by the ivy-choked 
weathered brick, the chips of plaster, the 
damp corridor smellsall misers of 
memory.
ALL COATS & CLARKS 
4 OZ. 4 PLY
 With This Ad
Maniet 's
Mouse of yarn
3.013.2.
10% Student Discount On all 
Other Items
4EN TR AIM-g 
Tue. Sat 11:00 - 5:30
Ancient Glasswork 
On Display 
At Museum
The Museum of Art, Carnegie Institute 
presents an exhibition of Ancient Glass as 
Art opening in the second floor Treasure 
Room above the Hall of Decorative Arts on 
Saturday, February 17 and continuing 
through May 6.
More than sixty beautiful specimens 
from the permanent collection of Carnegie 
Museum of Natural History have been 
loaned by Sidney M. Bergman, Curator of 
Ancient Glass, who formed the collection 
beginning in 1963. The beauty of most of 
the pieces has been enhanced by the multi 
-colored, jewel-like iridescence they have 
acquired during the centuries of burial. The 
exhibit was arranged by Mrs. James H. 
Heroy and Miss Margaret Kartanas.
Mr. Bergman has been associated with 
the Museum since 1962 after retiring as 
executive director of Montefiore Hospital 
in 1961. A trip abroad the following year 
sparked his interest in archaeology and he 
began his second career at Carnegie 
Museum of Natural History. His first 
assignment was to list and classify the 
museums few glass objects. Since then the 
collection has expanded dramatically and 
includes items from Egypt, Phoenicia, 
ancient Israel, Mesopotamia, 'Syria, 
Lebanon, Persia, and Parthia. There are 
also fine examples of Byzantine, Sassanian, 
Islamic, Roman and Greek glass.
Items from Egypt, the Near East, and 
Italy dating from 1500 B.C. to 1300 A.D. 
will be included in the exhibitsome never 
before publicly displayed.
The art of glass-making dates back to at 
least 3500 B.C. with prehistoric man. The 
art*had a continuous development over the 
centuries in Mesopotamia. By 1500 B.C. 
the Egyptians had mastered the basic 
techniques of glass-making known today. It 
was not, however, until the latter half of 
the 1st century B.C. that the glass industry 
was completely revolutionized by the 
process of glass-blowing so containers 
could be produced quickly and cheaply. 
Glass which only the rich and powerful 
could afford was then available to all men. 
Uses for glass were endless, varying from 
strictly utilitarian to the highly artistic 
productions of the 18th Dynasty in Egypt, 
the 1st century in Alexandria, the Islamic 
period, and culminating in the masterpieces 
produced in Venice during the 13th 
century.
Ancient Glass as Art will be on view 
in the Treasure Room February 17 through 
May 6. Gallery Hours: Sunday, noon to 5 
p.m.; CLOSED MONDAY; Tuesday, 10 
a.m. to 9 p.m.; Wednesday thru Saturday, 
10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Help us 
help.
Sonoones 
left outin the 
cold.
>00
LUo>QCLUCO(J_l
CODCL<
CO<UJXw
-I00DCL+
thegoodneighbor.
The American Red Cross
advertising contributed for lh public {

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, March 6, 1973Page 9
Bill O'Neil Talks About Youth City
by Joan McQusky
Different strokes for different folks 
thats the motto of Bill ONeil, founder 
and executive director of Youth City, a 
community organization interested in the 
welfare of youth. The organization was 
founded nearly five years ago, its main 
purpose being to provide a place where 
.anyone can come in out of the weather to 
get their thing together. We rap about life 
and its problems. Some of those problems 
concern home, society, school, drugs, 
crime, jobs, pregnancies. Any problem the 
staff doesnt feel equipped to handle can 
usually be solved through one of the 
agencies on the full referral list supplied by 
the Information and Volunteer Services of 
Allegheny County. If the problem is more 
basic than that, just a need for someone to 
talk to, Youth City provides that, too. 
Daddy Bill and his staff go out into the 
streets, parks, and campuses looking for 
people who want to talk. Young people 
today, days ONeil, are no different than 
young people were in the past. We all have 
questions about life at one time or another. 
Since I am a married man, over forty, with 
a family, I try to answer some of their 
questions.
Aside from providing a place where kids 
can come to talk and obtain guidance, 
Youth City also participates in community 
programs, such as voter registration, aiding 
flood victims, assisting schools, hospitals, 
and churches. They collected food for the 
needy; assisted at the Homes for the Aged 
and the Home for Crippled Children. 
Proposed activities for 1973 include a 
prison art program, Red Cross First Aid 
training, ecology classes, and college, 
juvenile and annual international rap 
sessions. By joining together with the 
community, ONeil hopes that problems 
caused by a lack of communication and 
understanding may be solved.
One of the annual events ONeil 
considers especially important is the Youth 
Fair, an event which will hopefully bring 
together the people of Allegheny county, 
and let the youth express themselves 
through arts, crafts, and entertainment. 
The fair is scheduled to take place June 
30th ?nd July 1st, and ONeil has asked the 
Dr.R Commissioners for permission to 
agair use the facilities at South Park. The 
loci .on will give the youth of the cities a 
ch'iice to be out in the country, and the 
ten buildings and oval will hopefully be 
conducive to the expression of creative 
ability, besides offering a certain amount 
of protection. Participants include colleges, 
high schools, sports organizations, YMCA 
and YWCA groups, private businesses, and 
T.V. and radio stations. Well known groups 
have been invited to perform, and both the 
Steelers and the Pirates, as well as famous 
sports personalities, have agreed to appear.
We have found, says ONeil, that 
many of our youth leave the county in the 
summer months because they claim there is 
nothing for them to do. Our purpose is to 
get those youths involved now in the 
preparation for this years fair. . . only with 
the help of the people of Allegheny county 
can we save the characters and lives of our 
youth. Last year we were able to mix love 
and money together and put on a small 
summer fair for less than five thousand 
dollars. We believe this years fair can be 
one of the largest educational fairs the 
county has ever seen.
At present. Youth City has no outside 
funds, although in the past theyve received 
money from the Community Chest of 
Pittsburgh. P.A.C.E. (Program to Aid 
Citizen Enterprise), and the Family and
Childrens Service of Pittsburgh. The office 
space they occupy at 304 Ross Street 
downtown normally rents for $400 per 
month-they get it for $50.00. Most of the 
200 young people working with ONeil are 
volunteers, high school and college aged 
people who have a desire to help others. 
Though ONeil expects the fair to cost 
about $10,000.00, he is hoping for no 
more than to clear their own expenses 
through donations and concessions. As 
ONeil sees it, the purpose of the fair is to' 
gain in the recognition that Allegheny 
County has a Youth City; that Youth City 
is an organization made up of all the 
people who care about young people; and 
that the young people of Allegheny 
County will recognize the fact that we
care.
I talked with several of the young 
people ONeil had helped. One was a tall 
lanky youth from Squirrel Hill who tried 
to run away to Arizona, by airplane, with 
$11,000.00 in his pocket. He was caught 
and brought back the next day. He told me 
he always had a great feeling of pressure 
upon him, that his parents and teachers 
were constantly needing him to perform. 
One night he walked over to the CMU 
campus and got into an argument with 
ONeil about a Biblical interpretation. The 
two talked, and ONeil found himself a 
new volunteer, now coordinator for the 
high schools of Allegheny County. A senior 
high school student, he spoke of Bill ONeil 
with an almost aw-struck tone in his 
voiceHe cares; he doesnt pressure you. 
He gives advice, and he listens. Hes like a
father should be.
Most of the kids who come here, says 
ONeil, are the odd balls, the black sheep, 
the ones who cant quite fit in. Well, Ive 
fought it all. Im black, dumb, and ugly. 
(The latter two he isnt.) Ive faced every 
kind of prejudice. Ive been hooked on 
drugs, so paranoic that I hung my blanket 
over my window to keep the world out. It 
wasnt until after I tried to commit suicide, 
and started talking to young people, that I 
brought myself out. Ive solved a lot of my 
own problems, and maybe I can help the 
youth of today solve some of theirs. . 
most people today are too afraid to help 
one another. Everybody needs other 
people, including me, and Im going to try 
and help if I can.
What Is ROTC? What Does It Offer?
by Johnny McGuire
The army is a job. A job like any other 
job. When starting out as a second 
lieutenant (the position one holds after go
ing through ROTC) the salary is $8,600 for 
a single man or $9,000 for a married man. 
Every year there is a 30 day leave, and 
there is always the opportunity for 
advancement.
In an interview with Lieutenant Colonel 
Bryant, director of the C-MU ROTC pro
gram, it was learned that ROTC is offered 
at 294 colleges and universities throughout 
the United States. But what is its role at 
C-MUHow does $100 a month sound?
In the normal four year program, ROTC 
students are paid $100.00 a month, each 
month, during their Junior and Senior 
years. During the Freshman and Sopho
more years the student has no obligation to 
the Army and can drop out at anytime he 
so desires to. When he enters his thirjl year 
he must sign a contract with the Army.
For the first two years the Basic 
Course consists of four semesters of basic 
military subjects such as drill, individual 
marksmanship, map reading, military 
history, basic tactics, military leadership, 
teaching principles and national security.
Lieutenant Colonel Joel W. Bryant, Director 
of C-MU ROTC program. Photo by Kevin Scott
For all, participation is voluntary. In the 
Advanced Course, third and fourth 
years, the student receives instruction in 
such courses as military law, command, 
and the role of the U.S.A. in World affairs.
In an Interview with Lieutenant Colonel 
Bryant it was learned that ROTC
procedures have not changed with the 
establishment of a voluntary army. The 
size of the U.S. Army has been decreasing 
from 1,000,000 in 1968 to 800,000 today, 
and the size of the ROTC graduating class 
varies from year to year. This years class is 
23.
Lt. Colonel Bryant also spoke of two 
and three year programs in ROTC for the 
person who decided late.
In the two year course a six week Basic 
Camp substitutes for the first two years of 
the four year program. Except for this the 
two programs are the same.
ROTC also offers flight training. For 
this a student must have completed his first 
year of the Advanced Course.
The ROTC program at Carnegie-Mellon 
is not and has never been an accredited 
course since it was instituted here is 1919, 
and is not open to women. However, most 
students do not find it enough of an over
load to merit accreditation (nor does the 
university!).
. Luxury . Sept. .
Furnished Apartments
Shadyside J*.-$JSS 
Oakland 2 Br.-$265
391-5446; 687-2360; 422-9607
PHONEY CREDIT CARD CALLS WORTH A CRIMINALRECORD? Plus a stiff f ine...a jail sentence...
or both?
Not everyone seems to realize that charg
ing phone calls to a fraudulent credit card 
number is against the law. And that the 
law sets heavy penalties for violators.
In this state, there's a fine of up to $500 
or one year in jailor both (In some 
states, fines range as high as $10,000, with 
jail sentences of up to 10 years.)
Modern electronic computer systems are 
making it increasingly easy to track down
offenders. And the Telephone Company 
will not tolerate fraudulent calling, no mat
ter who the offender may be.
The penalties may seem harsh for some
thing that may be done out of thoughtless
ness. But the fact remains: The law does 
not look on phone fraud as a lark.
() Bell of Pennsylvania

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 6, 1973
Fine Arts Drama
continued from page 3
university run by a more traditional 
management scientist, he would have been 
lismissed post haste and sans reconsideralon. But here, however, where the ideal of 
iberal-professional education is a behavior 
md not just an icon, he was reinstated 
/ter a public retraction of certain aspects 
*f the controversial memo he posted on 
the Drama bulletin board in response to 
>. Cyerts column in the last issue of 
his publication. Likewise, as a teenager I 
.vas once or thrice allowed to return to the 
iinner table in a few minutes after 
pologizing to my besotted step-father for 
.ntimating that he might be smashed or 
vrong about whether the lettuce in our 
>alad was romaine or endive.
In the afternoon assembly called in the 
Ine Arts theatre on the 22nd, after a 
eated and emotional morning session in 
'hich the firing of Earle was debated and 
bemoaned by nearly all dramats (Earles 
esignation had been asked for by Cyert 
rnd Midani because of the publication and 
content of his memo), the tension was 
ilmost as palpable as the confusion over 
he essence of this glorified sandbox 
quarrel. Would the firing stand after the 
acuity meeting and high-level consul
tations that took place between the 
morning convocation and this afternoon 
issembly?As we awaited the Answer, it 
>eemed as if Machiavelli was seated there 
with us next to A.S. Neill and Joan of Arc. 
Earle and Akram entered looking a bit 
laggard but relating rather warmly to each 
other. Who had won*Who had lost?
I maintain that we, the pimple-people 
won, and that they, the power-paupers lost 
a Pyrrhic victory. It was a good imitation 
of real life. But it was a lie in that poetic 
justice triumphed and the bad karma 
ippeared to have been worked out very 
quickly-in a matter of a few hours. We had 
better watch out, or such humanitarianism 
nay threaten the very authoritarian 
foundations of our improving university. 
Everybody knows by now that in a feudal 
system-such as, for example, the admini
strative structure of C-MU--the king takes 
no shit from nobody, right?Right. Like
wise, Duke Midani should take no shit 
from the Earle of the very shire from 
which the Dean rose to Dukedom. He 
duked im all right. And the King, the 
former Duke of GSIA, was right there in 
his comer armed with a Personnel Action 
Sheet stamped Gethimthefuckout if 
there seemed to be a danger to the 
integrity of the Dukes and Kings 
authority. Well, the Earle, it seems, stuck 
to his guns for a while, the very same 
weapons he had used to shoot from the hip 
at the Bigboys, who were coming back 
from the Hotel Warner Hall to the Fine 
Arts Saloon to gun him down. Here is the 
crux of the Episode: Earle, we may easily 
divine, was fired because he had the Gaul 
to announce to the public that the duke 
and the king had acted upon matters of 
intimate concern to the Earle and his 
integrity without consulting the Earle or 
informing him privately of their decisions 
regarding the disposition of funds and 
spaces earmarked for the Drama Depart
ment. In a feudal system this is allowed, of 
course. If somebody bitches too loud, you 
get one of yer capos to finger im, right? 
The offer Earle couldnt refuse (though, 
ire lically, he could have and fortunately 
foi the university he did not) was to buy 
reMstatement by recantation.
in the Fine Arts convocation at this 
po. it, Joan shuddered, Neill sighed, and 
Machiavellis pursed lips broadened into a 
caricature of a smile. The pimple-people 
clapped politely after Earles retraction and
Akrams reaffirmation of unity and good 
intent. What a magical resolution of a 
tragic dilemma!
Of course, Earle was, in the context of 
university bureaucratic procedures, no 
lighter than Akram and the president. But 
they, in human terms--which, one hopes, 
in a great University transcend merely 
organizational consiSerations-were no 
righter than Earle. However, the dynamic 
duo do wield more Power. And their aristo
cracy gives them, a priori, authority to 
use it as they see fit.
Such aberrant exercising of power as 
some of us were privy to cannot, though, 
but discourage and disappoint those of us 
who expect truth and benevolence from 
our elders, our protectors, our tax 
collectors, our fiefs, and our friends. 
Crucially, the affair was made public 
quickly (thanks to Earles outraged 
response in his memo to Cyerts column in 
the TARTAN) and therefore brought to a 
rapid and satisfactory resolution.
I could not resist, though, this oppor
tunity to remove for a few hundred words 
the ashes of this skeleton from the closet 
where it belongs in order to call it by its 
right name: Wickednesse. Let us learn again 
and remember as well as we can that in 
no instance can the assumed rights of 
authority be allowed to repress or abrogate 
the natural rights of men to truth and 
justice from those chosen to lead them. 
The buck stops here, as Harry Truman 
declared. Even in an enlightened feudal 
system such as ours, cabalistic behavior 
cannot be tolerated by those whom it most
affects-particularly when their freedom of 
expression is jeopardized by a summary 
dismissal, as ours was by Earles near fate, 
of an outspoken official.
We must not be lulled into complacency 
by administrative logic designed to per
petuate the irresponsible exercise of power 
merely for the preservation of authority. 
The integrity of an abstract structure is no 
longer (if it ever was) worth the destruc
tion of even one of its human components. 
The point is that the measure taken by 
Earle to preserve his integrity and credi
bility with students, faculty, and philan
thropists deserved censure only for its 
tone, not its content, which was more 
rhetorical than modifying of reality. The 
larger consideration here is that admini
strative officials and bodies must learn to 
accept criticism-even irresponsible carping 
short of libel-whithout subjecting the 
critic to more than verbal punishment.
The founders of our country knew this 
and embodied this knowledge in our Con
stitution. Have the rulers of this university 
forgotten?It would seem so. Therefore, we 
students and faculty must not allow such 
lapses of memory to pass unnoticed and 
unchided, if only because it is our 
responsibility to ourselves as citizens of 
this feudal-democratic realm occasionally 
to keep our leaders in line so that we-Iam 
not next toget zapped. Let Nixon fear the 
press, and let Cyert hold a healthy respect 
for his students, faculty, and 
administrators as people first and cogs 
second. Otherwise, let him beware their 
wrath and let him fear for the life of this
university. Cabalistic behavior of the sort 
illustrated by this Episode, or what William 
Halfullbright has called the arrogance of 
power, cannot be tolerated.
Politics in this university, if not in this 
country, has evolved beyond Machiavelli, 
has it not?If the answer is No then we 
must simply strive to make it Yes! 
Growing up absurd does not produce 
infinte acceptance of absurd grown-ups 
actions or internecine squabbles even (or 
especially) among the titled Titans of this 
tiny sandbox. If they must demote them
selves to any task more singlemindedly 
than we peons, it is to the dismantling of 
ego apparatuses which, in episodes such as 
this Episode, produce such destructive 
energy when they clash.
The Bible- whats in it for you?
Find out through regular daily 
study. The Bible Lessons in the Christian Science Quarterly 
are unique. They provide you 
with a home study Bible course 
for less than 10 a day. Study 
which brings real insight to the 
Scriptures, greater purpose 
and understanding into your 
life.
Buy your own copy of the 
Quarterly or study the Bible 
Lessons in our free, public 
Reading Room.
415 S. Craig St., Oakland, 15213
An important announcement to every 
student in the health professions:
NEW SCHOLARSHIPS ARE AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY.
THEY COVER TUITION AND 
RELATED COSTS AND PROVIDE AN 
ANNUAL INCOME OF $5,300 AS WELL.
If a steady salary of $400 a month and paid-up tuition will help you continue your professional training, the scholarships just made possible by the Uniformed 
Services Health Professions Revitalization Act of 1972 deserve your close attention. Because if you are now in a medical, osteopathic, dental, veterinary, podiatry, or optometry school, or are working toward a PhD in Clinical Psychology, you may qualify.We make it easy for you to complete your studies. Youre commissioned as an officer as soon as you enter the program, but remain in student status until graduation. And, during each year you will be
on active duty (with extra pay) for 45 days. Naturally, if your academic schedule requires that you remain on 
campus, you stay on campus and still receive your active duty pay.Active duty requirements are fair. Basically, you serve 
one year as a commissioned officer for each year youve participated in the program, with a two year minimum. You may apply for a scholarship with either the Army, Navy or Air Force, and know that upon entering active duty youll have rank and duties in keeping with your professional training.
The lifes work youve chosen for yourself requires long,
hard, expensive training. Now we are in a position to give you some help. Mail in the coupon at your earliest convenience for more detailed information.
J Armed Force Scholarships C-CN-33~]I Universal City. Texas 78148 I I desire information for the following |Ij Medical/Osteopathic Q Dental Veterinary Q Podiatry*J Other ( Please specify )____
1(please print)
1 ritv
1
1
1(School)
i Month) (Year)(Degree)
1  Podiatry not a(Month) (Day) (Year) vailable in Air Force Program.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesdav, March 6, 1973-Page 11
kl
*? Bai??
iiS3?a?aB?* b '* aBi?aaa?aiaBBa4qiBa?aBBaaaai?aaB > BaBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBm ? BBBBBBBBBBB
The TARTAN
Urges You to Support 
Your Student Activities.
VOTE YES
On The Referendum 
To Increase The 
Student Activities Fee.
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB
(For Details See Next Weeks Editorial)
THE ACTIVITIES BOARD PRESENTS...
Muck America
Fvstira!
March 97 & 9:30DH 2210
THE LEARNING TREE  deals with Gordon Parks auto
biography. A boy becames a man a little too quick.
March 107 & 9:30PH 100
THE LOST MAN  concerns itself with a black militant's 
struggle to achieve his goal of a better future for his child
ren.
March 117 & 9:30PH 100
WATERMELON MAN  Geoffrey Cambridge portrays a man 
who is one day white and the next day black. More than his 
color change in this film.
50< with AB Card
C-MU Chemists Discover 
Art Preservation Methods
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB
Pigment studies carried out by two re
search scientists at CMUs Division of 
Sponsored Research are providing the art 
world with reliable new methods for 
preserving works of art and detecting 
frauds.
Dr. Robert Feller, a chemist whose 
research is supported by the National 
Gallery of Art in Washington. D.C., is using 
the color of pigments to identify them. Dr. 
Bernard Keisch, a nuclear scientist whose 
work has been jointly supported by the 
National Gallery of Art and such organi
zations as the Atomic Energy Commission 
and the National Science Foundation, finds 
that the natural radioactivity and 
impurities of pigments give them away. 
Tiny, almost invisible samples of pigments 
in old paintings are being characterized 
with the aid of an extensive collection of 
pigments and historic data which the two 
scientists have gathered together in a pig
ment bank.
In their collection are cuttle fish glands 
and dried cow urine as well as more than 
2,000 varieties of ultramarine blue. The 
latter samples were turned over to the 
scientists about 1-1 Vi years ago by a 
Huntington, W.Va., pigment plant, the last 
ultramarine manufacturer in the United 
States.
A prize was offered in France in 1828 
for a method of making this brilliant blue 
pigment from sulfur, clay, and other color
less ingredients. Before that date artists had 
to separate the blue from a semiprecious 
stone, lapis lazuli, whose principal source 
was a remote region of Afghanistan. The 
two pigment types have different 
characteristics, and by comparing a speci
men from an art work with samples in their 
pigment bank, the researchers often can 
determine whether a painting purported to 
be a pre-1828 work is authentic or a 
modem forgery. They sometimes can even 
tell which country the pigment came from.
Another method developed at CMU was 
used a few months ago to demonstrate that 
a repair on the Metropolitan Museum of 
Arts Greek horse was a recent one.
The Atomic Energy Commission teamed 
up with the National Gallery of Art to 
support Dr. Keischs successful develop
ment of a method of dating works of art 
by distinguishing between modern and old 
lead in paints and alloys. The system is 
based on the measurement of low 
concentrations of the natural radioactive 
isotopy lead-210, which is known to decay 
away in about 150 years after the metal is 
extracted from the ore.
One of the major problems of scienti
fic examination of ancient sculpture and 
paintings, Feller explains, is that for a 
long time it was a tradition that an artist 
did not sign his name to his handiwork-- 
therefore, how do you know that a wbrk 
was done by a particular artist? Pigment 
studies provide some of the answers.
When one art historian discovered a 
number of early American works that 
appeared to be by the same artist, Dr. 
Feller was able to show that a rare type of 
brown pigment taken from peat bogs was
present in each one of these paintings and 
that it was always applied to the canvas in 
the same manner--thus, the art historian 
received convincing evidence that these un
signed paintings were the work of one man. 
So far, about 40 works by this unknown 
18th century artist have been found.
Ways of analyzing a painting without 
even touching it are now being tested. The 
most recent technique is Mossbauer 
spectroscopy, a method in which the 
painting is exposed to a special radioactive 
source and detector system which makes it 
possible to determine the chemical form of 
iron present-information that Dr. Feller 
says is especially useful because ironbearing red and yellow earths were among 
the original pigments of the cavemen and 
have been used extensively by artists ever 
since.
Dr. Keischs exploration of the uses of 
Mossbauer spectroscopy is an example of 
one of the primary purposes of the Mellon 
Institute research project-to demonstrate 
to the art world the value of new methods.
The project was set up 22 years ago to 
explore modern materials and techniques 
for use by artists and art restorers and to 
provide a technical advisory service to the 
National Gallery of Art.
Feller is called upon regularly to advise 
the gallery on problems of illumination; 
the preservation of textiles, photographs 
and prints; and the regulation of humidity, 
air conditioning, and heat. Following the 
1966 flood in Florence, Italy, Dr. Feller 
was called to Italy to advise on the repair 
of wall paintings.
The National Gallery of Art 
commissioned us to work on problems of 
interest to all museums, Feller says, --not 
just problems that were of immediate con
cern to itself.
One of the major breakthroughs of the 
project has been the development of new 
varnishes. A book, On Picture Varnishes 
and Their Solvents, co-authored by Feller, 
describes colorless modern coatings that 
will not crack or discolor on an art gallery 
wall for as long as 100 years and yet can be 
easily removed in the future with little risk 
to the painting.
A number of conservators in major 
museums throughout the world now prefer 
these materials, Dr. Feller said. As they 
learn more about their use, a steady feed
back of information to the Pittsburgh 
laboratory will allow us to improve them 
further."
The National Gallery of Arts project at 
Mellon Institute is the longest continuing 
research effort in the United States aimed 
specifically at development of new 
materials and techniques for artists and 
conservators.
Some of the work that we do may not 
pay off for 5, 10 or 15 years, Dr. Feller, 
says. But someone has to start and has to 
keep after these problems continually if 
progress is to be made. We are pleased that 
our varnishes and our white-leadcharacterizing technique are already solving 
important museum problems.
Discover the World on Your
SEMESTER AT SEA
Sails each September & February
Combine accredited study with 
educational stops in Africa. Aus
tralasia and the Orient. Over 7500 
students from 450 campuses have 
already experienced this interna
tional program. A wide range of 
financial aid is available. Write 
now for free catalog:
WCA, Chapman College, Box CC40, Orange, Cal. 92666

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12THE TARTANTuesday, March 6, 1973
C-MU Awarded 
Crime Study Grant
A $147,000 grant tor a three-year 
international study of criminal justice 
systems has been awarded to CarnegieMellon University by the Ford Foundation.
The research project, titled Criminal 
Justice Systems-Planning Methodology 
and Cross-National Comparisons, will be 
headed by Dr. Alfred Blumstein, director 
of the Universitys Urban Systems 
Institute, associated with the School of 
Urban and Public Affairs (SUPA). Dr. 
Blumstein has been engaged for a number 
of years in the analysis of criminal justice 
systems and has been a leader in the 
development of computer models to aid in 
analyzing those systems. His associate in 
the project will be Dr. R. Gordon Cassidy, 
assistant professor in SUPA.
The objective of the study is to test 
several hypotheses about the admini
stration of criminal justice in different 
nations by using a planning tool known as 
the Justice System Interactive Model 
(JUSSIM). A computer program developed 
by Dr. Blumstein and his associates, 
JUSSIM allows criminal justice administra
tors to test the effect on the system as a 
whole of a change in one of its parts; for 
example, the effect that a variation in the 
arrest rate might have on court workloads, 
detention population, and probation 
officer requirements.
One benefit which Dr. Blumstein ex
pects to result from this study is the 
implementation of U.S.-developed planning 
techniques by criminal justice officials in 
other countries, providing a standardized 
basis for exchange of criminal justice 
system information.
Once this common methodology for 
planning has been provided, Dr. Blum
stein says, it will make possible the direct 
comparison of statistics from a variety of 
countries to evaluate cross-national 
similarities or differences between the 
various criminal justice systems. For 
example, the different countries may 
handle the same kind of crime differently. 
In some cases, as with vice crimes, the 
difference is fundamental and a reflection 
of different values; in other cases, the total 
system will operate the same even though 
the various parts appear to operate
differently. It should prove valuable to 
learn the results of these variations in pro
cedure so that others might assess the
Dr. Blumstein and Dr. Cassidy have 
already begun the accumulation of data 
necessary to establish a JUSSIM model for 
the Canadian criminal justice system. Dr. 
Cassidy is currently on leave from the 
University, and is based in Ottawa as a 
full-time research staff member of the 
Ministry of State for Urban Affairs of the 
Government of Canada.
This provides a unique opportunity to 
transfer some of our planning methodology 
to Canada, Dr. Blumstein says, and en
ables us to gain access to the data we need 
to conduct this research.
We expect that a data base sufficient 
to generate a JUSSIM data file for Canada 
will be collected by this summer, he con
tinues. The following year will be spent 
both' in working with the appropriate 
Canadian criminal justice officials, and in 
collecting data needed to develop a 
JUSSIM model for a European country, 
probably Great Britain. In the third year 
we plan to test a variety of cross-national 
criminal justice system hypotheses. For 
example, we will test whether a country 
maintains a constant rate of punishment of 
its population and if so, how that rate 
differs between countries.
Carnegie-Mellon was one of 13 
universities in the U.S. and Canada to 
receive funding through a Ford Foundation 
competition to encourage research on pro
blems common to advanced industrial 
societies, and was one of six institutions to 
qualify for amounts near the maximum 
award of $150,000.
The Foundation invited applications 
from some -100 American and Canadian 
universities with significant graduate pro
grams in the humanities and social sciences. 
The invitation, which generated 61 
responses, called for research proposals 
that considered a common problem or 
public-policy issue and used data from 
European or Canadian as well as American 
sources.
THINGS HASSLING YOU?
PEER HELP CENTER 
687-7414 BAKER HALL 150-A
T ranscendental 
Meditation
As Taught 
by
MAHARISHI
MASHESH
YOGI
Spontaneously develops Full mental Potential 
Provides deep rest for increased energy
INTRODUCTORY LECTURE
Rick Meisenbach 
Eileen Felmet
Wed. March 7
8:00 P.M.
Scaife Hall - Auditorium
SPONSORED-BY
STUDENTS
INTERNATIONAL
MEDITATION
SOCIETY
NON-PROFIT
EDUCATIONAL
ORGANIZATION
363-1592
Problems Anyone?
by Dave Bush
The Math Club suffers from a disease 
which also afflicts many other organ
izations on this campus: lack of publicity. 
If it werent for the little pieces of paper 
you fish out of your mailbox and 
immediately throw away, plus occasional 
notices in the TARTAN and Campus 
Calendar, few would even be aware of our 
existence. So, with the object of providing 
a few minutes pastime each week and 
possibly stirring up some interest in the 
Math Club, we will present a selection of 
problems of various difficulty. The answer 
can be found in next weeks issue.
A factory reject calendar has the 
months divided into blocks of 6 days 
apiece instead of 7 days; not only that, but 
each of the 6 columns are labeled con
secutively as days of the week, with one of 
the days being left out. For example, a
typical month could have the columns 
labeled: Friday, Saturday, Sunday,
Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday. The 
month of April on this calendar has one of 
the columns marked Sunday whereas in 
fact no Sunday occurs on any day in that 
column. However, all of the other columns 
contain at least one day which is the same 
day of the week as the label for that 
column. If Saturday is a label for one of 
the 6 columns for April, on what actual 
day of the week would Christmas fall?
If you feel you have an interesting 
problem worth sharing, you can submit it 
by bringing it to the Math Club where it 
will be reviewed by an unbiased and ex
tremely professional group of judges, or 
you can contact either Dave Bush or John 
Greffenstette. Problems should be original, 
but if not, at least know where credit is 
due.
Noted Guitarist 
To Appear at C-MU
On Saturday night, March 17, noted 
classical guitarist Carlos Barbosa-Lima will 
appear in concert with the Carnegie-Mellon 
University Chamber Orchestra at the 
Carnegie Music Hall. Tickets for the 8:30 
p.m. concert are available at the Skibo In
formation Desk, Pitt Student Union and 
Kaufmanns.
Barbosa-Lima was born in Sao Paulo, 
Brazil in 1944 and made his guitar debut at 
the age of twelve, having studied with the 
Uruguayan guitarist . Savio. Mr. BarbosaLima first toured North America in 1967 
and his debut in Whasington prompted a 
reviewer to write: Brazil can be proud of 
this young virtuoso. As a result of his 
appearances, the Brazilian government 
awarded him a full scholarship to study 
with Andres Segovia in 1968. Following 
master classes in Santiago de Compostela,
Spain, he distinguished himself at the Inter
national Guitar Contest sponsored by the 
Conservatory of Orense by winning three 
top prizes. He was then invited by Segovia 
to study with him privately in Madrid.
In the winter of 1969, he returned to 
tour the United States, Canada and 
Mexico, after which he made a series of 
recordings. Under the ABC Dunhill label, 
Mr. Barbosa-Limas current release is an 
all-Scarlatti album for which he did the 
guitar transcriptions. Barbosa-Umas third 
U.S. tour is highlighted by his three day 
visit to Pittsburgh, where he will speak and 
conduct master classes in the Department 
of Music at Carnegie-Mellon, prior to his 
March 17 concert. Sponsors of the 
residency are the CMU Departments of 
Music and Student Activities.
biprn^ eJeiWflS
C.l.Tj MIS 
of DoWty
sto sorts / 
ydfvt Cafc, '!
o om P\

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 6, 1973-Page 13
Denenberg 
Warns Against 
Life Insurance
by Mike Mill
Herbert S. Denenberg, Insurance 
Commissioner of the Commonwealth of 
Pennsylvania, recently warned all college 
students against purchasing a life insurance 
policy which results in the creation of an 
immediate and irrevocable debt obli
gation. The caution was directed to 150 
institutions throughout the state, as a 
result of numerous complaints from 
parents and students who had already been 
baited by this new technique to selling.
In this insurance sales agreement, the 
first years premiums are deferred, and a 
legally enforceable promissary note or loan 
is issued. In most other insurance agree
ments, the policy is terminable without 
obligation to the holder by a simple discon
tinuation of premiums. Under the loan 
arrangement, however, the debt for the 
first year premiums continues, regardless of 
the payment of later premiums or desire to 
cancel the policy. If the holder does not 
pay premiums for five years, the loan be
comes due immediately. Denenberg added 
that many students do not realize they are 
on the hook for the debt when they buy 
the policy, but they are responsible.
A closer look at this technique reveals 
that the first years premium is paid 
through a prommissary note as an induce
ment for students to purchase the policy 
while still in school. The note is not then 
due until five years later, provided 
premiums for the second through fifth 
years are paid. At that time, the original 
promissary debt, together with accumu
lated interest is due.
Commissioner Denenberg also noted 
that the promissary note is almost always a 
valid legal document and any collection 
costs can be assessed upon the policy 
holder.
He concluded, Students should discuss 
their life insurance needs with their 
parents .... or contact the Insurance 
Department. A few days of reconsideration 
may prevent an expensive and painful 
lesson.
Powell Commentary
continued from page 3
remove sufficent particulate matter to 
bring us into compliance.
We had decided on alternative number 
four, conversion to oil, and presented this 
to the Allegheny County Air Pollution 
Control Board including the fact that we 
had been unable to receive a firm commit
ment from an oil supplier. At the same 
time we indicated that intensive investi
gation of the capability of the Bellfield 
Boiler Plant was under way and April 1, 
1973 we would make a go/no go decision. 
If the decision was go, we would drop 
our oil conversion efforts.
Since we neither had a positive source 
of oil nor a final position on Bellfield, the 
Board ruled that we had not presented an 
acceptable plan and continued our hearing 
until early April. By that time we will have 
final answers on Bellfield. If the answer is 
negative and we have not been able to 
recent a firm contract for oil, we seem to 
have no alternative than a bag house.
A statement in your editorial let the
Parent's Day
continued from page 1
The .goal of the program which begins at 
1:45 in designated areas is to help acquaint 
parents with the individual programs that 
occur in each of the colleges. For example, 
the session for H&SS will split up into 
separate departments. There will be a 45 
minute lecture for the combined colleges, 
AMS, CIT, and MIS. They will then break 
up into individual schools. In addition, 
parents have been invited to schedule 
appointments with faculty members who 
are making themselves available during the 
day.
During the afternoon, admissions people 
and those from financial aid will be present 
in order to answer any questions. When 
these activities are over, parents are invited 
to participate in any events which may be 
around campus. They are attempting to 
keep the day with some freedom of 
structure. CWENS, the womens honorary 
society, will be available to direct parents 
to the various destinations during the 
activities.
TALENT SEARCH 1973
  
SIXTH SENSATIONAL SUMMER 
OF SHOWS!
It's a day to day course in practical theatre.
. . . Become a part of this exclusive semi
nar where art and entertainment are one 
and the same thing.
It's a Showcase for your special talent.
. . . The shows are built around what you 
do best  so try us! Your audition material 
is limited only by your imagination.
It's a chance to do what you like to do  
and get paid for it.
. . . Earn a substantial portion of your 
college expenses.
Area Audition:
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 
Thursday, March 8 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Wherrett Room 
Auditions at 1 P.M.
Write:
Live Show Department 
Cedar Point, Inc. 
Sandusky, Ohio 44870
other guy worry about pollution, does not 
outline the true position. The Bellfield 
Boiler Plant is owned b^ a number-of 
organizations in the Oakland area including 
Carnegie Institute, Carnegie-Mellon 
University, University of Pittsburgh, and 
others. C-MUs portion of the plant is 
presently used to supply steam to the 
Mellon Institute building. C-MU is actively 
involved in the operation of the Bellfield 
Plant. If we manage to receive our entire 
steam supply from the Bellfield facility, 
our involvement and concern with pollu
tion problems will not diminish. In fact, 
the single largest unknown in the question 
of whether we can receive our entire steam 
supply from Bellfield is whether an 
increase in steam generation can be 
accomplished and still keep the Bellfield
Plant in compliance with Pollution Control 
Laws. The major reason for attempting to 
 increase our .ownership at* the Bellfield 
Plclnt and cloSe our own boiler plant is that 
certain economies of scale can be realized 
since the Bellfield plant is very large 
compared to our plant. Non-fuel operating 
costs would change very little, if at all. 
Further, negotiation for fuels by a single 
larger customer normally means more 
favorable terms. Also, attention to further 
tightening of pollution laws indicates that 
the larger plant is in a better position with 
respect to technological advancements than 
the smaller plant. Finally, Bellfield is 
receiving gas which can be mixed with 
other fuels to reduce pollutants.
The justifications do not include letting 
the other guy worry about pollution.
lAJinter (L(earance ate  ^11]arch 8, 9, 10
4E% OFF
Cross country skis, boots, bindings, waxes. High and low gaitors. 
Norwegian ragg socks and ragg mittens. Alpine Design closeout leftovers.
30% OFF
Gerry CWD backpacks & frames, Wilderness & Yosemite down sleeping bags.
All North Face. Sierra Designs, Camp 7 winter weight down sleeping bags. 
Sierra Designs down sweaters, down booties. Snowtreads plastic snowshoes.
4E/c OFF
Overstock  North Face, Sierra Designs down jackets  first time sale!
All Rich-Moor & Mountain House freeze-dried food. 3/8 ensolite pads.
^ Fabiano and Vasque fire sale climbing and hiking boots: several models, . 
broken sizes, excellent condition, prices as marked, Shadyside only. ^
THE MOUTTAIT TRAIL SHOPSOur Murrysville shop has moved to 5435 Walnut St., Shadyside. 687-1700 
Our second location is 2506 W. Liberty Ave., next to Locantes. 343-9966
by arrangement with HAROLD /HflUUguitari/t
"The young Brazilian artist,
Carlos Barbosa-Lima, 
is gifted by the goddess of music . .."Andres Segovia
 In stage presence and style young Brazilian 
guitarist, Carlos Barbosa-Lima 
is reminiscent of Segovia . .. He already has 
complete control of the kind of clear 
technique, varied registers of tone, 
rj and ornamental facility that the elder artist 
is famous for."
The Washington Post
"Mr. Lima played a difficult and 
varied program. Hearing him play "Pavanes" 
by Luis Milan is worth more than pages 
in a musical history describing 
the style and texture of these masterpieces."
the Ottawa Journal
"A happy happening in the guitar world 
an exclusive Scarlatti concert ... is 
now available to guitar lovers.
This unprecedented event is due to the courage 
of the extremely talented young 
Brazilian guitarist Carlos Barbosa-Lima."
Music Journal
CARLOS BARBOSA-LIMA made his London debut in April, 1971 and 
has already toured North America twice to high acclaim. After his American debut 
in 1967, Barbosa-Lima was awarded a full scholarship to study with 
Andres Segovia and has since become a favorite protege.
Carlos Barbosa Lima also performs extensively in his native South America.
ABCDunhill Records
Saturday, March 17 at 8:30 P.M.
IN CONCERT WITH THE CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITY ORCHESTRA
CARNEGIE MUSIC HALL
All seats $2.50 Tickets at CMUs Skibo, Pitt & Kaufrrtanns

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 6, 1973
Note Changes In 
RUNOFF Command
The following revisions should be made 
to the description of the RUNOFF 
command on pages 4 and 5 of the 
RUNOFF manual:
1. The FORMS=ML parameter should 
be deleted. This option is currently 
meaningless. If you wish to print re
production- quality copies of your 
RUNOFF output, you should queue a 
print of the output dataset specifying: 
PRTSP=EDIT, CHARSET=(CU), and 
FORM=WHITE.
You should record the BSN of the print 
and submit a Special Request Card to the 
programmer-in-charge to ask that the 
MYLAR ribbon be mounted for that print. 
The Office Services Department can make 
offset printing plates from printouts made 
in this way.
2. Two additional parameters, STOP 
and NOPRINT, should be added.
Guide to 
RUNOFF 
Error Messages
When output is to a terminal, the STOP 
parameter causes RUNOFF to stop after 
every page to allow a new sheet of paper to 
be inserted. A carriage return signals 
RUNOFF to resume printing, the same as 
before the first page.
The NOPRINT parameter specifies that 
RUNOFF should not queue a print of the 
output dataset.
WATFIV Printer 
Character Set 
Is Expanded
The WATFIV printer can now print 12 
special characters not available previously. 
The change is due to the installation of a 
PN train, which provides the same 
character set as the default train on the 
machine room 360 printer.
The additional characters are: vertical 
bar, colon,' underscore, double quotes, 
percent sign, at sign, not sign pound sien, 
less than, greater than, semicolon, and 
question mark.
Optical mark (OMR) cards are now 
available in the keypunch area. These cards 
eliminate the need for keypunching, but 
are read in through the customer card 
reader, just like keypunched cards. Letters, 
numbers, special characters, and FOR
TRAN or PL/1 keywords are represented 
on OMR cards by filling in one or more of 
the printed blocks with a pencil.
Two kinds of OMR cards are available: 
PL/1-PL/C-PLAGO and FORTRAN-WATFIV. The representation of single char
acters is the same on both cards, but 
PL/1-PL/C-PLAGO cards provide blocks 
for PL/1 keywords and FORTRAN-WATFIV cards provide blocks for FORTRAN 
keywords and statement numbers.f MR cards can be used to write pro
grams for both the 360 and the 1108.
Instructions for filling out the cards are 
available at the service counter. The dia
gram below shows how the number 1096 
would be represented on an optical FORTRAN-WATF1V card:
01000
3 3  I I
, 10000 1000 100 TEN UMIT
tn 3 n
33311
Television monitor on the third floor service counter improves communications 
between customers and staff in the control center.
Following is a table of the numbers used 
in RUNOFF error messages and their 
meanings:
1 recursive include
2 no DS or BUFFER specified
3 buffer is empty
4 DS unknown
5 DS invalid DSORG
6 DDEF failed
7 BUFFER not empty
8 0 line length in input
9 center line too long
10 invalid command
11 indent too far
12 indent left of margin
13 line length less than 0
14 paper length too short
15 offset out of range
16 undent beyond left margin
Refund Request 
Form Changed
A change on the refund request form 
now allows you to specify whether or not 
you would like to have your output re
turned.
If you dont want your output back, 
you will be sent a copy of the form to let 
you know if your refund request has been 
granted.
FORTRAN Attention
An attention handling subroutine has 
been added to the TSS/360 FORTRAN 
system. This routine can be used to prevent 
a FORTRAN program fiOm being stopped 
by an attention interrupt, e.g., pressing 
BREAK on a teletype.
The attention handler is enabled by the 
statement:
CALL ATTNON(SWITCH,&n)
where SWITCH has been declared as a 
LOGICAL* 1 variable, and n is the state
ment number in the calling program that 
control will branch to in case of an error.
An error implies that the attention 
handler was not enabled properly. If the 
command doesnt work the second time 
through, you should probably ABEND.
If an attention interrupt is received 
while the attention handler is enabled, 
SWITCH will be set to true but the pro
gram will not be stopped. An IF statement 
can be used to test SWITCH to determine
Handler
if an interrupt has occurred.
Control of attention interrupts is re
turned to TSS by the statement:
CALL ATTNOF
To Stop TAB Echoing:
TAB echoing on teletypes can now be 
suppressed by typing control P, i.e., 
holding down the CTRL (CONTROL) key
* while pressing the P key. A TAB character 
will still be transmitted to the 360 when 
the TAB key is pressed, but no spaces will 
be printed at the teletype.
Control P appears on your teletype as: 
tP. It remains in effect until you type 
another control P.
This new option is supported by the 
PDP-11 interface between teletypes and 
the 360. It does not apply to 2741 
terminals.
Restart Opinion 
Added to 
1108 Job Card
A restart option has been added to the 
ll08 job card. It is specified by a ,R 
following the word RUN. For example:
@^RUN,RwJOBNAME,R023ID00
in which R023 is your account number 
and iDOO is your customer number.
When you request the restart option, 
the 1108 will save your input until the job 
has completed. In case the system crashes 
while your job is running, it can then be 
restarted.
To request both the restart and ex
tended core options, you must specify 
both R and M, preceded by a comma 
and following RUN. These options may 
be specified in any order.
Tried Optical Mark 
Sense Cards Yet?

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 6, 1973Page 15
Computation Center News
Recent Computer Account 
Classifications Reviewed
On February 1, all Computation Center 
^ accounts were classified as either sub
sidized or non-subsidized. This new 
classification system was designed to 
provide optimum service to non-subsidized 
accounts at the expense of service to 
subsidized accounts.
Subsidized accounts include those 
funded by the university in order to use 
excess computing capacity.
0 Non-subsidized accounts include all 
those funded by non- university sources,
Time Parameter Change
The TIME parameter of the LOGON 
command has been changed to allow you 
to specify a time limit less than one % minute. The format is TIME=min:sec, 
where min is the number of minutes and 
sec is the number of seconds of execution 
time.
For example, the command:
LOGON custno,password,TIME=:30
will correctly set the time limit at 30 
^ seconds.
New Documents
Revised editions of CMU-TSS Docu
ment 1 (Introduction to TSS: IBMs Time 
Sharing System) and CMU-TSS Document
6 (TSS FORTRAN I/O: Using Datasets for9 Input and Output) are on sale in the Book
store.
A new one-page document, Filling in 
OMR Cards, is available free at the third 
floor service counter. Explanations and ex
amples for using both PL/1-PL/C and FORTRAN-WATFIV optical mark sense cards 
are included in this write-up.
Help Yourself
Would you like to explore the 
mysterious world of computers? And at 
the same time learn how CMUs computers 
can help you do your work faster and } easier?If so, the Computer Club is looking 
for you.
Whether youve taken a course in 
computer science or not, you can join the 
club by calling extension 197 and leaving 
your name and telephone number. You 
will be notified about the time and place of 
the organizational meeting. The club is 
being sponsored by Alpha Phi Omega and 
It the Computation Cemer.
A complete list of Computation 
Center rates and services is available in 
5216 Science Hall and at the service 
counter on the third floor.
such as grants and contracts, and General 
Education accounts.
Advanced Education and Research 
accounts are considered subsidized. They 
may be changed to non-subsidized status, 
however, if the appropriate dean feels they 
would be supported by the university even 
if excess computing capacity did not exist.
Each department should submit a list of 
its Advanced Education and Research 
accounts to the dean for his approval as 
non-subsidized. Funds for such priority 
changes must be granted directly from the 
deans account.
The new classes for computing usage 
are:
(P) Advanced Education-subsidized
(Q) Advanced Education-non-subsidized
(R) Research-subsidized
(S) Research-non-subsidized
(F) Funded-non-subsidized
(E) General Education-non-subsidized
Customers will be affected by the new 
classification system in the following ways: 
SUBSIDIZED ACCOUNTS
1. can be nudged by any non-subsidized 
conversational customers
2. are restricted to conversational Class R
3. are restricted to batch Class I, i.e., jobs 
will run only after all Class A, B, C, and D 
jobs have run
4. datasets will be migrated frequently 
NON-SUBSIDIZED ACCOUNTS
1. cannot be nudged by subsidized 
accounts
2. conversational tasks will normally run in 
Class S, but have the option of using 
conversational Class T
3. can run batch jobs in Class A, B. C, or D
4. have dataset migration biased in their 
favor
This policy was recommended by the 
deans and the Vice President for Academic 
Affairs.
Improved FORTRAN 
Available Soon 
On the 1108
On March 13, an improved FORTRAN 
will become standard on the 1108. FOR 
on the language processor card will then 
activate this new FORTRAN, rather than 
the current version.
To use the current FORTRAN after 
March 13, indicate OLD on the language 
processor card.
Although most of the differences are 
internal, they result in making the new 
FORTRAN a more correct compiler. It 
includes two additional commands, 
ENCODE and DECODE, which can be 
compared to WRITE and READ state
ments respectively.
Rather than transferring data between a 
peripheral unit and main storage, it is 
transferred between areas of main storage. 
In this way, information can be moved 
from block to list while manipulating it 
with format specifications without 
accessing a physical peripheral device.
FORTRAN Time Routines on TSS
Two FORTRAN time routines have 
been added to TSS. They are: DATTIM, 
which will enter the current date as an 
eight-character string in a program, and 
CPUTIM, which can be used to compute 
the amount of CPU time a program has 
used. (See below for further information.)
DATTIM
DATTIM transfers its input to the 
assembly macro EBCDTIME, and 
returns the value received from 
EBCDTIME. A complete explanation of 
the input format for EBCDTIME can be 
found in the IBM manual, Assembler User 
Macro Instructions, available in the 
manual racks in the third floor public 
terminal area.
The command form is CALL 
DATTIM(A), where (A) is a REAL*8
variable initially assigned an eight-character 
string. For example:
REAL*8 DATE,MASK/MO/DD/YY/
DATE=MASK
CALL DATTIM (DATE)
PRINT 2, DATE
2 FORMAT (1X.A8)
END
Do You Need 
Larger Job Limits?
Although the limit for WATFIV, PL/C, 
and PLAGO jobs has been changed to 10 
per day, you can still request a larger limit. 
To do so, submit your requirements and 
request to the Computation Center office, 
5216 Science Hall.
Output from the program will appear in 
the form 01/12/73. Ten mask formats 
besides MO, DD, and YY can be specified 
in the eight-character mask. They include 
HH for hours, MM for minutes, and SS for 
seconds.
CPUTIM
The statement CALL CPUTIM (I) 
will set the integer variable I to the 
number of microseconds of CPU time since 
LOGON. For example:
CALL CPUTIM (II)
(sequence to be timed)
CALL CPUTIM (12)
IT=I 2-11
(IT is the number of microseconds of 
actual execution.)
Revision Pages 
To CALCOMP Manual 
Now in Bookstore
Four revision pages have been inserted 
in the CALCOMP User Manuals sold in the 
Bookstore. These revisions explain how to 
use CALCOMP routines under TSS, and 
include information on 360 plotter 
programs control cards, format of the plot 
dataset, and acceptable pen types and 
paper sizes.
If your manual does not contain the 
update pages, you can obtain them free of 
charge at the third tloor service counter by 
asking the programmmer-in-charge.Chuck Augustine, member of the Computation Center documentation staff, 
at the CALCOMP plotter.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 6. 1973
ENTERTAINMENT
INTERVIEW
Rene Auberjonois:
//Tech" Graduate
by Susan N. Klein
On stage, Rene Auberjonois is an 
exhuberant and highly stylized performer. 
Tall and wiry, his body bounds about, blue 
eyes sparkling, wisps of strawberry blond 
hair bouncing on his brow. He has been 
hailed as not only the finest actor 
Camegie-Mellon has produced in the past 
decade, but as one of the foremost actors 
currently working in America. He won a 
Tony award in 1970 for his performance in 
the Katherine Hepburn musical, Coco, 
was named best supporting actor by the 
Variety Poll of Broadway Critics for the 
1971-72 season for his performance as Malvolio in the Lincoln Center Repertory 
Company production of Twelfth Night, 
and although his latest show, the musical 
comedy Tricks lasted a week on Broad
way, Renes performance had critics 
scrounging through their precious store of 
superlatives for sufficient praise.
Away from the accolades, Rene is a 
genial, intelligent, charming, eloquent man, 
with a sweet crooked grin, a hearty laugh, 
and a beautiful family. He has an attractive 
apartment, decorated in that handsome 
melange of styles and accoutrements that 
are the trademark of successful young New 
Yorkers. We sat talking in what Rene 
described as simply his room, a fascina
ting little room chock full of theatrical 
memorabilia; clippings, posters, costume 
sketches, Herschfield drawings, colorful 
miniature masks, and that magical Tony 
award, which Rene jokingly advised me to 
dust off.
It brings out all the adolescent 
anxieties that one has fought to get away 
from all ones life. And it became so
Like most groups, Focus have had their 
share of personnel changes and general 
problems. But now, they are a unit. And as 
such, they have created a most inventive, 
most unusual kind of music. Right now, 
Focus is the most popular group in 
Holland, but their popularity is fast 
spreading to other parts of the globe 
including these United States.
Though the group is heavily influenced 
by Elvin Jones, Charlie Parker. Miles Davis, 
John Coltrane, and Buddy Rich, the rock 
in them shines through. Focus is deter
mined to have audiences listen to their 
music and appreciate the thought that 
went into it.
important, at least in my own personal stage was juggling, jumping, running over
case. I became so annoyed with how here, doing a song, running over there,
important it was, how much of my life it turning around, somersaulting, pouring
involved. Nobody lets you alone; friends sweat, it was just not meant to be done. I
are excited for you, enemies are jealous. So would have collapsed after two weeks, and
what you spend most of your time doing is I was set to do that part eight times a
preparing to loose, and then when you win week. It lacked a lot in humanity. I love
youre not at all prepared for it. The whole the physical work, but if there s no human
scene, the television cameras, parties being behind it, it becomes mechanicalized.
afterwards, it all just became ugly to me. I The point against long runs is that 
dont think I would ever go to those theres only so long you can keep the
awards again. creative process going. At a certain point,
Theres a certain amount of prestige after a certain number of months, you can
involved in it, and I would be lying if I only learn so much about a role, you can
didnt say Im glad I won it. But hypo- only investigate it so much, only expand it
thetically, even if I was nominated for so much, only evolve it so much, and then
Tricks, the show ran a week and so few it becomes not a creative process but a
people would have been able to see it that sustaining process. And a sustaining process
theres no reason I would win. I certainly does not interest me. I would have gone
wouldnt go just to see someone else win it. into an office if I had wanted a sustaining
If there was the slightest chance that Id
win. Id go out of curiosity, unless of Rene hWCTer- have the mcredlbl^course I could get Larry Olivier to accept it opportunity of appearing on stage With .  Katherm Hepburn, and he kicked oil hisfor me or something. , r , , . ,, j u * _ -u nnA brown clogs and answered the question heTricks closed about a month ago, and 6 n.~ , . .. must have answered a million times sincesince then Rene has been taking it easy,
waiting for something he really wants to f ,... lf I did Coco for ten months and wasdo, and amusing himself with his delightful , c^ * I- i . p nearly out of my mind. If it weren t torThurburesque pen and mk line drawings or 3. . . J  11 Kate I would have really jumped out thelittle masked people doing all kinds ot , , . ,... . . . t4C . window, just gone stark-raving bananas,acrobatics, like miniature Scapins , the  J 5 6_ , , . ^  i  What got me through it were all my scenescharacter Rene played in Tricks . *.. t ^ . , , , , A  with her. She was just unique amongTricks took a lot out of me, it was an .J n, * j ,, people, and always right there. There wasincredibly difficult job. I don t like long F K J * ._ . ,. no way 1 could have slacked off becauseBroadway runs. That sounds very negative, J , , x - . .. whe wouldn t have accepted that. Not inbut if a show s a success, you re stuck in it . . , .  terms of being a tyrant, fyit as an artist,for at least a year. And if you re doing 5
something like Tricks, where I was on Rene was one of the founding members
stage every minute of the time, and every- of the American Conservatory Theatre in 
thing from the moment I ran out on the San Fransisco, and loves repertory simply
because it allows for respite between parts. 
He did Tartuffe for three years and was 
never bored with it in repertory. Lincoln 
Center Repertory Company offers the 
same opportunity for an actor, a good role 
in a decent production without having to 
sign your life away, as Rene put it. Rene 
did King Lear with LCR, and A Cry of 
Players, and a highly praised Malvolio in 
Ellis Rabbs, another Carnegie graduate, 
staging of Twelfth Night.
When I talked to Ellis about doing 
Malvolio, I said, Tve got to be truthful, 
when I read this play, I hear everyone elses 
voice whose ever played the role, and I see 
all the standard Malvolio things, and Im 
really afraid that I wont be able to find 
anything that makes it mine. But Elliss 
conception of Malvolio was as a very sexual 
man, not as just a foolish, foppish man, 
rather as a man in the true sense of Puritan
ism, where everything is held in to such a 
degree that when it can finally be released 
you see so much potential. Ellis kept 
saying, T think Malvolio is sexy. I think he 
has to be seething with sexuality. Not that
I played it like Robert Redford or any
thing ...
Composed of Jan Ackerman (guitars Rene^had done Aguecheek at Carnegie
and lute), Thijs. Van Leer (organ, flute, in 1960' and his performance is still
vocals), Pierre Van Der Linden (drums); remembered by professors who were here
and Bert Ruiter (bass and vocals), the at time.
group has just released their most recent Spending four years at Carnegie was
LP entitled Moving Waves on the Sire crazy anyhow. At the age that you begin
label. In all probability, the LP will only starting studying that craft, youre sort of
serve to introduce the group to the just on the crest of the adolescent wave,
American audience-but if you have the and coming down from that. Theres a lot
time, listen to a single track called Hocus f personal things, your whole life is being
Pocus. That will explain it all. Theres no changed. A lot of the reasons that you
doubt that well be hearing a lot from made the decision to get into the theatre
Focus in the coming year. are not yet jelled in your mind. I know it
Focus will appear at C-MU on of myself, and Ive observed it in other
Wednesday, March 21 at 8:30 p.m. people, they decide to be actors in termst)f
what it will give them, in terms, of
rewards, in terms of love.
So you go to a school like Carnegie 
Tech, which I think is the best, the most 
intense training program .. . Some people 
dont make it, some do, and everybodys a 
little crazy, most of the time, I think. I 
dont see how you can avoid it.
When I was at Carnegie you lived and 
breathed theatre. There were a lot of 
people who were unhappy. But any place 
you go to study something as personal as 
that kind of art, people will be unhappy.
Carnegie prepares people to be craftsmen. 
If you could get through the four years, 
you were ready to learn how to act. Thats 
all you can get out of any learning experience-nobody can teach you how to 
act. They can only teach you how to learn 
to act. Youve got to get out and act, act, 
act. Thats why I went into repertory for 
six years. I had friends who came 
immediately to New York and sat around 
for five years.
Rene hasnt been to Carnegie since he 
graduated in 1962, and says he cant 
believe its been that long. When he 
graduated, it was still called Carnegie Tech, 
and Rene seems to have an aversion to its 
new name.
I keep calling it Tech, but I dont care. 
Carnegie-Mellon, that sounds like a fancy 
fruit salad. Camegie-Mellon and Cottage 
Cheese. But theyre not going to build the 
drama complex, eh? Thats disgraceful. 
There are a lot of people who are very 
angry about that. A lot of people worked 
to raise money, not a lot of money in the 
total sum, but there was personal effort in 
it. I would imagine that the Drama Depart
ment will be very hurt when they try to 
raise money from Alumni. There are so 
many places that build great big complexes 
without anything to put in them. And this 
is one place where theres a tradition, a 
strong foundation.
The priorities somewhere along the 
way are all wrong. And as proud as I am 
that Im from the Drama Department, I 
dont give a damn that Im from CarnegieMellon. Im not from Carnegie-Mellon. Im 
from a school called Carnegie Tech, and I 
worked in a little tiny wooden theatre. Im 
not from that University that cant some
how get together the money to build a 
decent place. I really believe that the 
school can still be a good school, it really 
can. But theatre is a craft, and there is a 
need for laboratory equipment. They 
wouldnt think of doing that if the 
engineers had to have some sort of thing to 
split something or other. They would get 
it. The military-industrial complex would 
scrape it up and get it there.
With competence and capability, Rene 
has progressed in his work to the plane he 
is now resting upon-that of approaching 
and imminent stardom. He is determined, 
and boundlessly talented, well-liked and 
personable. Overwhelming critical approval 
has followed him throughout his career. 
And it is with his affability and honesty 
that Rene will state, Everything in my life 
that Ive ever done and been really proud 
of in the end, I started out to do because I 
thought it would be fun. Thats why I 
became an actor, because I thought it 
would be fun ... Now that may sound 
trivial, but I was only six years old at the 
time, so I suppose I can be forgiven that.
There is no need to forgive inyone who 
brings so much honor and pride to this 
school. Rene is among the greats, 
deservedly so, and will remain there for 
many years to come.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 6. 1973Page 17
^Measuring Zke 
Sensuality of Jrt
by Michael P. Mesaros
A length of string providing it is the correct one is an apt measure of an art form's sensuality. There are, of course, precise and delicate procedures which must be followed with extreme care, of the measurements are to be accurate and informative to those desirers of such exotic details.First the measurer must take the length of string he has decided will be most delicate and responsive to the object of measurement, i.e., the art form under analysis. He, the measurer, may be if undisciplined bent and make his choice of strings an arbitrary one. But, from my experience with strings, it seems that each new piece used for the purpose being dealt with in this article will create a lascivious tone to the new found information, peculiar to the qualities of that string.Those qualities of string which the considerate and scholarly investigator will want to be conscious of before beginning his measurements are; color, natural or synthetic dye, fiber composition-acetate, rayon, Acrilon, batting, cotton, cotton batting, darning cotton, flax, floss, hemp, horsehair, jute, linen, nylon, oakum, protean fibers, raffia, raw silk, sericin gum, soybean fibers, wool, or zephyr, the method of spinning, to name a few. The person making the analysis of the sensuality, as it is represented in the art form, will no doubt add prerequisites of his own to the list of string consideration, and so we shall give the precise instructions as to how one begins the undertaking being discussed herein.The length of the string should be precisely ten times the height of loftiness of the measurer plus two times the peripheral distance of the art form under consideration. Using the metric system rather than the English system will make the finding more universal, but I suggest its use for only those contemplating international publications of the findings. After the string has been properly measured and cut, the investigator must attach it to that part of his own body which he feels is most sensitive to stimuli. It would be prudent to warn the inexperienced that the initial attachment may be frowned upon by many of those frequenting the site of the art form, e.s., painting, sculpture, symphony, poet reciting poems, opera, plays, or the like. Therefore, the attachment of the string to the body should be done in the privacy of ones own home; the remainder of the string can be wound in a ball and transported in a brown paper bag or brief case depending on the financial distinction of the carrier.Since the length of this article is going to be great and will not fit into the rectangle given to accommodate it, it will be continued in next weeks issue.
Nate Burden and Mike Sturdivant recreate the ghetto.
SPECIAL
ONW, SH,ATL
Photo by Elliot Arons
^ Charmayne interprets the music with grace.Photo by Elliot Arons
by Debbie Siegel
Youre now boarding a bus. This bus is 
special. It doesnt go on a tour. It has a 
destination. The destination is a ghetto. 
The bass began picking while the tenor 
saxophone took up the melody. But it was 
the ballroom, not the ghetto, that was 
filled with a special kind of soul on 
Saturday night. You didnt have to be a 
brother or sister to dig the tremendous 
talent which was presented, but if you 
were, there was probably a unique 
touching of your soul. A capacity crowd 
filled the room for the benefit of sickle cell 
anemia presented by SPIRIT. The show 
could really be termed a musical extra
vaganza where a vast amount of talent was 
uncovered. Before you hear or remember 
some of the individual acts, you have to get 
a portrait of the atmosphere. Imagine 
putting yourself into a drum beat which 
became so loud in your soul and visions 
that it became a part of you. As one of the 
MCs, Clayton Greene, said, A lot of 
Black people dont believe they have 
talent. Whether they believe it or not', the 
show was staged and presented with a 
convincing appeal that left no question 
that the talent was there.
Where do you begin? I'm afraid it is 
virtually impossible to mention all the 
people who contributed to the show, but 
here is an attempt. There were various 
groups of beautiful women reminiscent of 
the Supremes and a female version of the 
Temptations. Such was that feeling when 
ESSENCE sang The Trailways of Our 
Time where solos were taken by the 
melodious voices of Lynette Lawler and 
Lynne Waller. Little Debbie belted a tune 
out with a strong voice that gave name to
the NO NAME GROUP. DELTAS from the 
Black sorority were introduced as they 
each jived down the isles. They called 
themselves ID and sang one great version of 
Where Have All Flowers Gone?
There was also a good deal of dancing in 
the show. Sandy Sowell and Lynne Waller 
did an expressive dance that brought out 
the guts of the drum music. Id call it (for 
those like us who are ignorant about the 
field) tribal or Afro-jazz. In addition, the 
Little Soul Sisters appeared in Tribal 
Costumes and gave the audience a taste of 
Africa. If you wonder why theyre called 
Little, its because they're in the below-15 
age category. In contrast to the rhythmic 
sounds that provided a tensity, Charmayne 
Shields danced in a subtle pantomime 
form, using all parts of her body to 
be representative of the music.
If you ask what was the highlight of the 
show, everyone might have a different 
answer. But, I dont think anyone will 
forget Mr. Isaac Hayes the II played by 
Keith Wright. He could substitute for Black 
Moses any time if you saw the way the girls 
were swooning. Ill only do justice in 
describing him by advising you to buy an 
Isaac Hayes album, listen, and youll relive 
part of the SPIRIT.
MCs Agatha Marshall and Buster Flood 
gave special recognition to Tanya Allmond 
who was responsible for coordinating the 
show. Tanya said shes like to see this kind 
of thing happen more often.
(Authors note: If Ive only raved about 
this show, its because a lot of unusual 
talent was exposed and it seemed that 
anybody who was involved as performer or 
in the audience benefited as much as the 
cause.)

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 6, 1973
SPORTS
I.M. Playoff Time Arrives
Tip-off between front-running Raiders and the Wild Bunch.
Photo by Frank Stein
Cagers Finish With 
Only One Win
by Roger Geddes
A long season that started way back in 
November is finally over. The C-MU 
basketball team played their last game 
Saturday and closed the year with a 1-22 
overall record and a 1-13 record in the 
Presidents Athletic Conference, good for 
last place.
In their last showing of the season, the 
Tartans played well against John Carroll 
for about three quarters, keeping the score 
very close. The score at the half was only 
34-28 in favor of John Carroll. But their 
lead increased in the final minutes and the 
game ended, 75-56. High scorers for the 
Tartans were Ralph Domenick with 16 
points, Mike Wegener, voted MVP on the 
Tartan squad, with 14 points and Frank 
Sacco with 10.
In a game against Geneva, a new Geneva 
College individual scoring record was set by 
Ken Creasman. playing his last home game, 
with 42 points. That was 8 less points than 
the Tartans scored altogether as they were 
trounced 101-50. Geneva shot 46% from 
the field while C-MU shot a cold 26%. High 
scorers for the Tartans were again Sacco 
with 20 and Domenick with 12.
Because of a rescheduled game, the 
Tartans had to play Hiram College, the 
PAC champs, twice in a span of four days. 
Those games could have proved to be 
interesting since Hiram had only lost one 
game in the PAC and that was to Thiel. 
C-MU had only won one game in the PAC 
and that was against Thiel. However, the 
Hiram team did not make the games very 
interesting as far as Tartan fans were 
concerned. They won both games by scores 
of 92-45 and 112-67. Leading scorer for 
C-MU was Wegener with 20 points.
On February 19th against Allegheny, 
the Tartans were again run over by a score 
of 103-47. Alle^ieny shot for 47% from 
the field while C-MU managed 28%. 
Wegener has 14 points while Mark Donato 
added 10.
MAJOR LEAGUE PLAYOFFS
Eastern 3
Mon. March 12
8:00 Main Court
Wed. March 14 
7:00 Main Court
Eastern 2
Eastern 6
Eastern 4Fri. March 16
Mon. March 12
8:00 Main Court
Wed. March 14
7:00 Main Court
Eastern 58:00 Main Court<snrbnf msfial orli nEastern 1
INTERMEDIATE PLAYOFFS
Warriors 1
Tues. March 6
7:00 Court D
Lakers 2Wed. March 7
Warriors 27:00 Court A
Tues. March 6
7:00 Court A
Lakers 1Thurs. March 8
Bullets 17:00 Main Court
Tues. March 6
8:00 Court D
Hawks 2Wed. March 7
Bullets 27:00 Court D
Tues. March 6
8:00 Court A
Hawks 1
MINOR LEAGUE PLAYOFFS 
Bucks 1
Tues. March 6
9;00 Court A
Bulls 2Thurs. March 8
Bucks 28:00 Court A
Tues. March 6
9:00 Court D
Bulls 1
One of the Bunch drives on Radic's Raiders.
I. MAJOR LEAGUES 
TEAM
1. Radics Raiders
2. Salt & Pepper
3. Black Magics
4. Wild Bundch
5. GSIA
6. Scrow
7. Roaches
8. BTP A
9. Mothers
10. BTP Z
11. ATO A
12. SAEA
13. 01 Men
II. INTERMEDIATE LEAGUES
Western Division
WARRIORS
TEAM
1. Morewood Gups
2. Rangatangs
3. Purple Avengers
4. TDP
5. DU
6. ROTC
7. SAE B
LAKERS
TEAM
1. Purple Gnurples
2. Players
3. Over the Hill
4. Shrinks
5. Greys Gonads
6. Oakland As
7. Fringe B
Central Division
BULLETS
TEAM
1. Polish Patriots
2. PKT A
3. KS Jags
4. The Dec 5
5. Tarmac
6. Commuter Gaz.
7. ATO
HAWKS
TEAM
1. PKA A
2. BJack Magic Bloods
3. Booahs
4. Buds
5. Pedora Heights
6. Ks Drags
7. SN
III. MINOR LEAGUES
BUCKS
TEAM
1. PKT Rhinos
2. Sloof
3. Indecision Ind.
4. Scobell 2
5. PKT Mooses
6. Dolphins
7. Mosquitos
BULLS
"TEAM
1. Skid Row
2. Happy Jacks
3. Truckers
4. EZ-Beefers
5. APO Lobsters
6. McGilldoes
7. PKA B
8. DTD
Photo by hrank Stein
W-L
12-0
11-1
9-3
9-3
8-4
7-4
5-7
4-6
4-6
3-9
2-10
2-10
0-12
W-L
8-1
6-3
5-4
2-6
2-7
1-7
1-7
W-L
8-1
8-1
7-2
6-3
6-3
5-4
1-8
W-L
8-1
7-2
5-4
5-4
2-7
2-7
1-8
W-L
8-1
8-1
7-2
5-4
4-5
1-8
0-9
W-L
6-0
5-1
2-2
2-3
2-4
1-4
1-5
W-L
7-0
5-1
4-2
4-3
2-5
2-5
1-5
1-6

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 6, 1973Page 19
Two Accounts of the Hockey Tournament
by Dave Girdany
The Camegie-Mellon University hockey 
team proved convincingly that it is the 
number one team in the city by defeating 
J^the University of Pittsburgh, 3 to 1, on 
Sunday evening February 18, in the Civic 
Arena.
Throughout the season, the Tartans 
problem has been a poor first period per
formance. This was not the case, however, 
against Pitt. The first period ended with 
the score CMU 2, Pitt 0. Jim Powers 
opened the scoring when, left unattended 
^|by the Pitt defense directly in front of the 
goal, he was given two chances to beat the 
Pitt goalie. It was one too many, as far as 
the Panthers were concerned. Tfye Tartans 
showed their skating superiority in the first 
period and it was never more obvious than 
when they were playing with Jim Powers in 
the penalty box. Mike Gallaway and Rich 
Eastman broke in, two on two, on the Pitt
0 goalie and Mike put the puck between the 
goalies pads for a two goal Tartan lead.
With the rest between periods, the 
Tartans and Panthers played a completely 
different game in the second period as they 
appeared to reverse roles. As much as CMU 
dominated the first, Pitt dominated the 
second period. Pitt constantly had the 
puck in the CMU zone, even when the 
^Tartans had a man advantage. With the 
help of Jeff Harts great goaltending, the 
Tartans left the ice still holding the lead at
2 to 1. Bill Glanville scored the lone Pitt 
goal by putting the puck into a small 
opening between Jeff Hart and the 
goalpost.
Both teams skated hard in the third 
period but CMU scored in the first five 
^ minutes as Mike Gallaway again beat the 
Pitt goalie during a xramble in front of the 
net. This left the Tartans with a two goal 
lead and forced Pitt to play catch-up 
hockey for the rest of the game. Pitt had to 
take the game to the smaller Tartans but 
CMU skated Pitt to a standstill for the 
remainder of the game.
The highlight of the third period 
occurred with a little more than five 
minutes remaining in the game; three 
separate fights involving Mike Kenworthy, 
who really didnt fight (he did not want to 
leave the ice for a penalty), Jeff Hart, and 
Rich Eastman occurred. The obviously de
feated Panthers were trying to show their 
superiority in one phase of the game, 
fighting, but even in this the Panthers were 
unable to gain a decisive victory. The 
action finally subsided and the game ended 
with the Tartans triumphant, 3 to 1. The 
story of the game was the inability of Pitt 
to use its size to intimidate the faster 
skating Tartans, and the tremendous goaltending of Jeff Hart.
Unfortunately, the Arena game did not 
count in the league standings. The next Pitt 
game (which counts) will be described in 
next weeks article.
One week later, in Alpine Arena, 
Indiana upset the Tartans 3 to 2. Back to 
normal in the first period, the Tartans fell 
behind 2 to 0. Indiana played a good game, 
and on this night outplayed the Tartans. 
To put it simply, CMU did not skate as 
well as in previous games and Indiana 
skated very well. One of the Tartans 
strengths, penalty killing, was not up to 
par, as Indiana scored twice on power 
plays. Riordan starred for Indiana, scoring 
one goal and assisting on the other two. 
Scoring Summaries :
CMU-Pitt
Period l-l)CMU-Powers (Molnar) 2)CMUGallaway (Eastman)
Period 2-3)Pitt-Glanville (Clark, Brown) 
Period 3-4)CMU-Gallaway (Kenworthy)
CMU-Indiana 
Period l-l)Ind.-Montebell (Riordan, Jeff 
Schweitz) 2)Ind.-Jeff Schweitz (Riordan, 
Montebell) 3)CMU-Gallaway (Kenworthy) 
Period 2-No scoring
Period 3-4)Ind.-Riordan (Jack Schweitz) 
5)CMU-Kenworthy (unassisted)
Take it from one with a man-sized 
yen. men. When a *Big Man on Campus 
gets a big thirst, it takes a big drink to 
satiate it. And nothing. I repeat nothing, 
titillates the tonsils and taunts a thirst 
like Akad^ma Red. Fred.
Akadama RedThe toast of the campus.
Imported by Suntory international. Los Angeles. Calif
OAKLAND 
FURNISHED APTS.
Luxury and Modern 1,2,3, 
and 4 Bedroom Units
Many with w/w carpeting, recreation rooms, sauna baths, 
air-conditioning, separate thermostatic controls, desks, in
tercom and security systems, off-street parking.
ONE-BEDROOM UNITS Accommodating 1,2,3 
TWO BEDROOM UNITS Accommodating 3-4
3 BEDROOM UNITS w/2 Bathrooms Accommodating 3-6
4 BEDROOM UNITS and 6 ROOM HOUSES
AVAILABLE SEPTEMBER 1st. SUMMER LEASES from MAY 1st
KAMIN REALTY
CALL 681-5026
by Glenn Campbell
The Carnegie-Mellon Tartans, after 
defeating Pitt for the second time this 
season, have proven they are the best team 
in the Western Pennsylvania Hockey 
Association. Pitt has only lost two games in 
the past two seasons, both losses being 
administered by C-MU. The teams will 
meet once more after this is written, but 
C-MU has clinched the seasons series.
C-MU completely dominated the 
rematch, which was played at the Civic 
Arena as part of a college doubleheader. 
C-MUs skating and passing were clearly the 
decisive factors. Jeff Hart turned in 
another Herculean game in goal, and to top 
things off, Gallaway had a short-handed 
goal.
The first period belonged to the 
Tartans. Pitts diminutive goalie couldnt 
stop all the shots, Jimmy Powers scoring 
first goal on a rebound.
C-MUs one goal lead was precarious 
with Pitt on a power play. The Tartans 
were doing a good job killing the penalty 
when Gallaway got the puck. Headmanning the puck, he skated down the left 
wing, faked the goalie off his feet, and 
lifted the puck over the sprawled
netminder.
This goal took a lot out of the Panthers. 
Their play was disorganized and whenever 
they could muster a shot, Hart was 
impenetrable.
. Some of Pitts lethargy overcame the 
Tartans in the third period. They failed to 
clear the puck in front of the net and 
finally Pitt scored, Glanville scoring from a 
scramble in the crease. For a while the 
game was close, but Mike Kenworthys goal 
gave the Tartans much needed insurance 
tally.
By now the Panthers were completely 
frustrated. Kenworthy was tackled in Pitts 
zone and fists began to fly. At the other 
end of the ice another brawl erupted. The 
way things were going for Pitt, they even 
lost the fight. The penalty box began to 
look like San Quentin with nine players 
imprisoned.
The crowd was enthusiastic and 
knowledgeable, although small. Since this 
is the one sport where Pitt and C-MU can 
compete, the turnout was disappointing. 
With more publicity and an ever improving 
style of play in the future, this doubleheader should be a fine attraction for this 
growing rivalry.
Girls Take Two of Three
by Sybelle Mryczko
Id like to depart from my regular 
format to profile a member of the 
Womens Basketball team whose per
formance and contributions cannot be 
computed in statistics. Patricia Berry, a 
junior, has been described by her 
teammates and by her opponents as the 
Flash, greased lightning, fantastic, 
and wow!!!. Berry exemplifies that fast, 
small athlete whose speed and agility are an 
asset to any athletic team. Pats main role 
is what Coach Fisk calls a chaser. When 
necessary she is sent in to dog, to hound, 
and finally to steal the ball from unwary 
ball handlers. Her only handicap is that 
quite often she outruns the ball, the play 
and both teams. As her shooting has 
improved, her quickness has and will 
enable her to score key baskets as she did 
in the P.S.U.N.K. game. Im sure that much 
will be heard of this promising player next 
year from all fields of athletic endeavor.
February 20th saw a surprise game 
added to the schedule as the Tech Women 
traveled to P.S.U. New Kensington. The 
team was surprised and very narrowly 
escaped defeat at the hands of a new and 
vastly improved P.S.U.N.K. team. The first 
quarter saw the Women down 14-9. A 
much sobered team took the floor second 
quarter which ended with C-MU on top by 
1 point, 22*21. Special mention is due to 
Pat Berry whose speed dazzled the P.S.U. 
offense and to Marty Lisberger whose 
outside shooting enabled C-MU to stay 
alive and to break up the P.S.U. defense. 
Scoring: C.Whitmore, 18; M. Lisberger, 14; 
E. Zimmerman, 11; P. Berry, 2. Final 
Score: 45-39 (C-MU).
Duquesne traveled to C-MU Thursday, 
February 22nd to trounce the Tartans 
39-24. Scoring remained even throughout 
the first quarter but / my missed shots 
caused the Women to ia*i behind 13-6 by
halftime. A valiant second half effort by 
the team availed them nothing as the 
Dukes continued to pour it on and pulled 
further away as the game progressed. In 
spite of the loss, the Tech Women played a 
creditable game and expect to turn the 
tables next year. Scoring: E. Zimmerman, 
9; P. Salapow, 7; C. Whitmore, 4; M. 
Lisberger, 2; F. Pauley, 2.
By 3:30 p.m. Saturday, March 3rd the 
C-MUs Womens Basketball team had 
improved upon its record with a hardfought victory over California State 
College. Despite the absence of guard Fran 
Pauley, a wider court, and a somewhat 
loose first quarter defense, the Tech 
Women led 12-7. As the defense improved 
second quarter and the offense began to 
work, it appeared that the second team 
would see early action. But the third 
quarter saw inexplicable happenings on the 
court as the Tech offense failed to see the 
free player and missed many shots. Despite 
these dangerous tendencies, however, the 
Tech Women increased their lead to 12. 
The fourth quarter witnessed an unusual 
game of hot potato and a resurgence of 
the CSC team. But the second held them 
off in a quarter which saw some very nice 
passing. With 3 minutes to play and leading 
by 4 the first team came in to try to put 
the game on ice. The issue was firmly 
decided in the last seconds of play when 
Elly Zimmerman stole the ball three times, 
scoring twice on lay-ups. Final score: 
44-36. Scoring: E. Zimmerman 18; M. 
Lisberger, 11; C. Whitmore, 10; P. 
Salapow, 4; S. Mryczko, 1.
On March 8th, C-MU will face their 
toughest opponents in Indiana. Thr game 
will be played at home and will tart at 
7:00 p.m. Come and lend your support; its 
the last game of a strenuous season. See 
you there!
PREGNANT?  Need Help
ADOPTION SERVICES, PREGNANCY TESTING, ETC. . . . 
NATIONAL FAMILY PLANNING COUNCIL, LTD.
Coll: (215) 457-4139 Philod#Iphia, Po.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 6, 1973
firvek Sing .01 - A New Look!
Friday, March 9, at 8 p.m. the combined fraternity-sorority community of 
Carnegie-Mellon will take the stage at Carnegie Music Hall for the annual 
Greek Sing competition. This year's program will attempt to provide a more 
entertaining evening by deterring from the formal approach of the past.
However, the level of competition maintained in previous years will not be 
sacrificed. The program will feature music from "Cabaret," "Godspell," "Fid
dler on the Roof/' and "A Clockwork Orange/' to name only a few. In keep
ing with the entertainment theme, each group will be allowed to use lighting, 
costume, and props in their production. Competition will be divided into 
three categoriesfraternity, sorority, and mixed group competition, culmin
ating in the presentation of awards at Greek Swing Saturday evening. Tick
ets are available at the Skibo Information Desk. A donation of fifty cents per 
ticket will be given to the St. Francis Hospital's Community Mental Health 
Program. The entire campus community is invited to view the talent side of 
the Carnegie-Mellon Greek system as they perform for charity, in an enter
taining new look at Greek Sing.
M
The CMU Activities Board 
Presents
IN CONCERT
from Holland
? FOCUS ?
Wed., March 21 
8:30 p.m.
Tickets *2.50
Wr- $1.50 with CMU ID
Available at: Skibo Information Desk 
Pitt Ticket Office 
Duquesne Student Union 
Heads Together in Squirrel Hi
B'NAI B'RITH HILLEL 
JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
Jsrael Week
Jsrael Day - Zucsday, March 13-IOa.m. to 5pju. 
Skibo jCobby-Car^ie-JHelbn
FEATURING: Kibbutz Exhibit - Slide Show - 
Israeli Food, Israeli Craft and Gift Items 
12:30 p.m. Room 45, Skibo
((YPaEHA, rT tiA cpa
Panel Discussion with leading Israelis
8:00p.m. 2210 Doherty Hall 
Israeli Film: "THREE DAYS AND A CHILD."
First Prize Cannes Film Festival, 1966
Admission $.50
WEDNESDAY, March 14 8:30 p.m. Dining Room A
Pitt Student Union
KIBBUTZ SYMPOSIUM - Panel Discussion 
and short film
"IsThe Communal Way of Life A Success?
