Cyert Inaugurated 6th Pres.
ini tartan
March 13, 1973 Volume 73 Number 21
New Pres And 
Referendum to be 
Decided in Election
by Steve Correll
Student government elections will take 
^ place tomorrow and Thursday following a 
 campaign marked by a shortage of 
candidates and little disagreement between 
the two presidential aspirants. The major 
issue in the voting is a referendum on a 
proposal to increase the mandatory student 
activities fee by $2.50 per semester.
Tanya Allmond and Dennis Brandi, the 
two candidates for the presidency of 
t student government, agree with each other 
on most matters. Both support the 
referendum. Student Senate will be in 
dire straits if the increase doesnt go 
through, says Brandi. Its important that 
people realize that students on this campus 
are responsible for the life and death of 
activities, says Allmond. If the fee in
crease were defeated, Brandi would 
^compensate by cutting back the Activities 
Boards share of the budget and by re
stricting funds to the large organizations, 
iwhile Allmond would prefer to seek 
emergency funding from the admini
stration or perhaps from Spring Carnival 
proceeds.
Both candidates stress their experience 
in student government. Both are senators, 
though Allmond resigned her seat before * running for President. Allmond is chair
woman of the finance committee, and 
Brandi is a member of that committee. 
Each refuses to say any ill of the other. 
Theres nothing negative I could say 
about Dennis, says Allmond., Thats not 
the kind of philosophy either of us has. 
My opponent might make a very gooa 
president. says Brandi, though I may 
think that I would make a better one.
Aside from the presidency, only one 
real contest appears on the ballot. Two 
candidates have filed for the single seat 
representing independent undergraduate
residents, but in all other senate con
stituencies there are more open seats than^ 
candidates. Of the 19 seats and 12 half 
seats open, at least 18 must be tilled by 
write-ins. (Half seats are apportioned 
according to a formula in the student 
government constitution. Senators who 
hold half seats stand for re-election after 
continued on page 12
Hot Stereo,
Bad Bargain
by Gary Bronheim
On Monday, March 5, two con men 
approached a C-MU student and offered 
him a Marantz 2270 stereo receiver. Dual 
Turntable with dustcover, and Advent 
speakers worth $1000 for only $250. When 
asked if the equipment was hot, the 
suspect said it was warm.
Possibly for personal gain (money or 
equipment) the student offered to contact 
friends and offer them the deal. After 
several phone calls, four students 
decided to buy the equipment. Meanwhile, 
the suspect contacted the first party and 
arranged to meet him with the money on 
Tuesday at 1 p.m. at the nearby Exxon 
station. There, two students handed the 
suspects an envelope with the $750. The 
suspect checked the money and quicklyswitched envelopes returning an envelope 
filled with play money.
The suspect then instructed the students 
to meet the delivery truck in the back of 
More wood Gardens at 2 p.m. When the 
student checked the money he realized 
what had happened robbery.
Reports were then filed with security 
and the Pittsburgh Police.
Michael Gannon, a student security aide
continued on page 12
Where the Activities fee Goes:
1972-72Requested1973-74 Approved by
Activities Board$28,927$44,950
Finance Committee 
*$35,000
TARTAN10, 41711,197* 11,197
WRCT7,4957,000* 7,000
Programming Fund5,5255,500 5,500
Hockey3,5624,025* 3,855
**#*
Technical2,5002,5002,000
Faculty Course Evaluation2,1302,130* 2,130
Cameron Choir1,3853,005* 1,385
Spirit620625625
Commuter Council545
*
550450
Karate500500500
Cheerleaders462225225
W3NKI460400400
Film Workshop430425425
Fencing293300300
Rifle & Pistol240170170
Science Fiction---198198
Sailing5757
(Senate has not completed approval of the 1973-74 budgets. Starsindicate conditional budgets;!
they will be the first cut if the fee increase Hoe'IMA -yir-------- . . .. . . _ ..o't pass.)____________ . iJ
by Gary Singer and Steven Correll
We know it is a hard time to be a college president. We gather, nonetheless, to bless 
this man on his way, knowing that he shall require the wisdom of Solomon, the patience 
of Job, the resourcefulness of Horatio Alger, the endurance of Methuselah, the loving 
openness of St. Francis, and the tenacity of Winston Churchill; the creative intellect of 
Einstein and the strength and stick-to-it-iveness of epoxy resin. Sustain this good and 
man in the days and years ahead, and 
surely it would be not too much to hope 
for a few friends with the wealth of 
Croesus and the generosity of Andrew 
Carnegie.
Bless this man our friend, and the cause 
of excellence, education and truth to 
which he and this University are dedi
cated. Such was the invocation, as 
delivered by the Reverend David A.
Johnson, of the First Unitarian Church, at 
the presidential inauguration of Richard M.
Cyert last Friday.
This formal affair was held in the 
lavishly decorated Skibo ballroom. The 
flags of the five undergraduate colleges 
covered the front wall from the floor to 
the ceiling. Flowers were generously dis
persed before the main lecturn as were 
movie lights and press photographers. The 
occassion was of such import that even the 
windows of the ballroom had been washed, 
some say only one side, and the CMU flag 
had been brought out of storage and flown 
upon the cut flag pole.
The event began with the traditional 
bagpipes, followed by an academic proces
sional which consisted of members ot the 
faculty, administration, trustees and 
alumni all dressed in the academic black 
gown trimmed with their doctorial colors.
As in all such occassions, The StarSpangled Banner was sung; the solo being 
performed by mezzo-soprano Lynn Beekstrom, a Graduate Student in Voice in 
CFA.
Following-the invocation, came welcom
ing addresses from Student Senate 
President Mike Garl; Faculty Senate 
Chairman David Fowler, and finally by 
Maxwell H. Connan, President of the 
Alumni Association. Professor Herbert A.
Simon then delivered an address on behall 
of the National Science Foundation.
President Richard M. Cyert was then 
officially installed as the sixth president of 
Carnegie - Mellon University and was 
handed the University charter, by George 
A. Roberts, Vice Chairman, Board of 
Trustees,-to signify this event. Dr. J.C.
Warner and Dr. H Guyford Stever (present 
President of the National Science Founda-..^
Does the "T" 
in WRCT Stand
for TARTAN?
The TARTAN and the Campus radio 
station WRCT announced last Tuesday that 
they will hereafter be participating in a 
joint news team designated as the C-MU 
News System. These two news gathering 
organizations will use this system to 
enhance rather than delete from their ow' 
presently existing, news services.
WRCT News Editor, Sue Zimmerman 
and her TARTAN counterpart, Gary Singer 
have made plans which should extend the 
effectiveness and efficiency of both their 
individual departments. WRCT plans to use 
TARTAN stories as leads and edited ver
sions might even be broadcasted. The 
TARTAN has made use of the news 
recordings which WRCT makes of such 
events as the presidential inauguration.
This cooperation was designed so to 
eliminate duplication of work as well as 
bring new horizons to these two campus 
racdia. The. News.System will also stable
President Richard Cyert, dressed in his academic 
gown, waiting to be officially inagurated as CMU s 
sixth president.Photo by Henry Collins
tion) were then recognized, at which time 
they both, independently, wished Mr. & 
Mrs. Cyert the best of luck and reaffirmed 
their faith in the ability of President Cyert 
to serve and improve this university during 
his tenure as President.
Dr. Howard Bowen, present Chancellor 
of Claremont University, who later in the 
cermony would receive an honorary degre: 
of doctor of laws, then delivered his 
address entitled the Purpose of Carnegi?
-Mellon University In his speech, D 
Bowen defended the role of private univer 
sities in an age of unlimited access to stati 
institutions. It is no time to be dismantling 
the old established elite universities, he 
said, claiming that they are the innovators 
in higher education. They seem to hav 
unlimited ambitions and to scatter their 
activities,he admitted, noting that ,it is a 
continued on page 4
TARTAN News Editor, Gary Singer, and WRC r 
News Editor Sue Zimmerman, confer on new cu 
operative CMU News System.
Photo by Elliot Aroi
the staffs of each of the two individu 
news departments to obtain skills i 
writing for varied media.
The News System will hopefully hei 
both WRCT and the TARTAN cover mor 
campus events, was Gary Singei 
reaction.
Sue Zimmerman said that, This sort c 
system has been needed ever since 1 
been at WRCT. Theres no reason why tf 
TARTAN and WRCT should be rival 
especially since we're b 
improve our news departm 
English Department woul 
journalise
>t h 
nts
%

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2THE TARTANTuesday, March 13, 1973
EDITORS NOTE
One day in the life of a college newspaper editor:
On Thursday and Friday, Student Government elections will be held. 
People who dont plan to vote neednt read this editorial.
There is a very important referendum being placed before the 
student body this election. Simply stated, the referendum proposes to 
separate the Student Activities fee from tuition on the students bill and 
to raise the fee by $2.50.
/ had been planning to write a very stirring logical argument 
prodding everyone to vote yes on the referendum. Luckily, / dont think / 
should bore everyone with that. Most of the Senatorial candidates seem to 
be in favor of an increase in the activities fee and / wouldnt want to try 
to top their campaign statements for cold, hard logic.
Rather, let me make a more personal argument by presenting one 
day in the life of a college newspaper editor.
9:30 a.m. Wake up, yawn and grimace.
10:30 a.m. Arrive at the TARTAN office. The phone immediately 
rings and rings every five minutes for the rest of the day.
11:00 a.m. Go to Baker Hall to get the mail. Upon return, someone 
is waiting to see about something. Someone comes in every five minutes 
for the rest of the day.
11:30 a.m. Business Manager arrives and says that the TARTAN 
can t afford to keep printing 20 page papers.
12:00 a.m. Most of the mail is open. A letter is discovered from 
Roland King in the Public Relations Department. He says that the March 
6th TARTAN was one of the strongest papers journalistically, hed seen in 
five years on this campus. This letter is posted.
12:25 p.m. Eight things happen at once, causing perenial lateness to 
a 12:30 class.
2:30 p.m. Return from classes to find twelve messages on desk.
3:00 p.m. Business manager explains next years budget. Budget is 
way up. Photography budget is way up because this year there was a real 
staff and last year there wasnt. Salaries are up because the papers are 
bigger, so the typists are typing longer hours. Printing budget is up 
because the papers are longer.
3:30 p.m. Advertising Manager comes in and tries to think of ways to 
raise advertising revenue.
4:00p.m. News editor comes in with problems.
4:30 p.m. Features editor comes in with problems.
5:00 p.m. Sports, Entertainment and Photography editors come in 
with problems.
5:30-6:00 p.m. Assorted staff members come with problems.
6:00p.m. Go home.
7:00 p.m. Eat dinner.
8:00 p.m. Watch The Waltons on television.
9:00 p.m. Wash dishes:
10:00 p.m. Take a shower.
11:00 p.m. Begin writing editorial.
1:30 a.m. Go to bed thankful that for once the editorial is done on 
Thursday night. Think of the Saturday nights spent sweating to get it 
done. Think of the Saturday afternoons spent laying out the paper. And 
the Sunday afternoons. And the times it didnt get finished until Sunday 
night at midnight. Think of how much the paper has improved and how 
much work has been put into it by so many people. Think of what will 
happen if the activities fee isnt increased. The budget cuts, the monetary 
constraints, the inability to afford papers longer than 8 or 12 pages, the 
cuts in staff, the loss of all thats been built in the last year.
In other words, / will be very upset if the Activities Fee increase is 
not passed. / will probably be very hard to live with. Ill be cross with my 
roommates, Ill yell at my mother and Ill dislike animals for no reason. 
Ill also personally seek out each person who voted no and do them bodily 
harm.
Stephen Saunders
Letters:
Editor:
In response to Walter Stalzers letter to 
the March 6 issue of the TARTAN, I want 
to say that a motion did indeed pass at the 
Feb. 14 meeting of MDC which would 
serve to divide the supply of on-campus 
apartments for the coming academic year 
in the following manner: 58% for men, 
42% for women. I suppose that I am 
somewhat guilty of Mr. Stalzers accusa
tions, for I made that motion. But his MDC 
representative must have failed to supply 
him with the full text of my motion.
I agree that the residents of the mens 
dormitories had voted for a proportionate 
division of the apartments between men 
and women, but the WDC constituency 
had voted overwhelmingly for a 50%-50% 
division. So, in the hope of a compromise 
with WDC, I moved in the following way 
(keeping in mind the wishes of my consti
tuents): The women on campus would be 
permitted to retain the number of apart
ments that they have now for the coming 
academic year, and that all new apartments 
created would then go to men. In the fol
lowing year, 1974-75, the apartments 
would then be divided proportionally to 
the number of men and women applying. 
The motion was on the condition that 
McGill Hall would be converted to apart
ments. This motion would serve todivide 
apartments along the lines of 58-42.
A member of WDC was present at the 
meeting of the 14th and raised no objec
tion to my motion, nonetheless, WDC re
jected the proportionality clause in my mo
tion. A modified version of the motion was 
then made by another representative at the 
Feb. 21 meeting of MDC. It agreed to 
permit the women to retain the number of 
apartments they have now, which, by the 
way, is all of them, but said that propor
tionality between men and women would 
be reached over a period of years as women 
leave school or graduate and vacate the 
apartments. This proved to be more agree
able to WDC.
In a related decision, MDC agreed to a
50-50 division between men and women in 
the new co-ed living areas that will be cre
ated. These new living areas would be cre
ated in existing mens dormitory areas. I 
suggested that the 50-50 proportionality be * 
reached over a period of time, similar to 
the agreement concerning apartments, as 
men graduated and left the dormitory ^ 
system. Women would then receive the 
rooms until the 50-50 proportionality was 
reached. This proved, to my disappoint
ment, to be wholly unagreeable to the 
WDC leadership, who had sought this same 
sort of settlement earlier in the apartment 
dispute.
In the time that I have been on MDC, I 
have seen diminishing cooperation between ^ 
MDC and WDC, and the two disputes men
tioned above are cases in point. If there is 
to be any future cooperation between the 
two bodies, their must be mutual trust and 
some co-ordination of effort, both of 
which have been lacking. I think that both 
bodies are a little afraid of the other and 
this must stop. Perhaps, I am mistaken. I 
hope so.
Finally, I want to say that MDC repre
sentatives should be held responsible for 
their actions by their constituents. I sug
gest to Mr. Stalzer and others interested, to 
refer to the minutes of the Feb. 14 and 21 
meetings. Roll call votes were taken on 
each of the above motions. See how your 
representative voted and make your feel
ings known to him, but please do not con- % 
demn the entire MDC as an organization 
which finds ways to frustrate their 
constituents.Rick Dormer Secretary, MDC
Editor:
I would like to thank the members of 
the faculty and the students who came to 
my aid and signed my petitions at a late 
date for Judge of the Court of Common 
Pleas.
My sincere thanks.John P. Flaherty, Jr.Professor
tartan
Editor in Chief.Steve Saunders
Business Manager................Alice Bright
News Editor.............................Gary Singer
Features Editor .... Shelley Burhans
Special Editors........................Jef^Ganek
Mina Ger'all
Special Concultant . . . . Steve Jurman
Assistant News Editor . . . Debbie Siegel
News and Features Staff . . . S, Breisch
Gary Bronheim, Chris Brown 
Craig Collins, Steve Correll 
Sharon Curcio, Brandon Dula 
Anna Friedman 
Greg Fulton, Mike Hill 
Chris Infante, Kathy Knobloch 
Thomas Lang, Joan McClusky 
Johnny McQuire, Robin Reiter 
Ellen Steiber
Political Editor............................Jim Slivka
Photography Editors .... Ed Levine
Elliot Arons
Photography Staff .... Henry Collin;
Ellen Eddy, Bruce Edelston 
Andrea Friedman, Carl Grefenstette 
Dan Goldstein, Greg Nickel 
John Shettel, Frank Stein 
Kevin Scott, Ric Werme
The Editorial Board of the TARTAN reserves the right to edit or withhold any copy that it considers 
unfit for publication. Published every Tuesday during the academic year at Carnegie - Mellon 
University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 15213. Editorial and Business offices are located in Skibo 50. 
Telephone <412) 682-4557 or extension 656.
Entertainment Editor . . Stephen Hamm 
Entertainment Staff . . Terry Caywood 
Nonie Dempsey, Arnie Karr 
Paula Shubock, Hank Levy 
Steve Perkins, Susan Klein 
Winton Snyder, Jay Corpus 
Doug Stone
Sports Editor .....................Jeff Englund
Sports Staff...................................Dan Buis
Roger Geddes, David Girdany 
Glenn Campbell, D.R. Sullivan 
Bruce Hoffman, Eric Johnson 
Sybelle Mryczko, Dave List 
Greg Mason, Jim Sivak 
Political Cartoonist . . Jimmy Margulies
Layout  .........................Erica Gees
Copy Staff .............................Mina Gerall
Cyndy Schmidt
Business Staff .....................Beth Bowers
Advertising Manager . . Dwayne Smalls

---------------------------------------------------

MEWS COMMENT
THE TARTANTuesday, March 13, 1973Page 3
The reputations of the various colleges and programs of Carnegie 
Mellon University are reported, at least to the various members of this 
campus community, to be among the best private institutions in this 
country. As / have been able to decipher it, GSIA is regarded as either 
number one or running a dose second to Harvard Business School, SU PA, 
although relatively new, has achieved unparallelled excellence, CIT&*MiS 
are rated among the top engineering schools such as MIT and Cat. Tech., 
CFA, reknown for its Drama Department, is also well known for its other 
programs, including at I east officially, the Architecture Department, and 
H&SS is officially  reported as steadily maturing.
This mass montage of fine reputations has been disputed by many 
students, through personal communications as well as letters to the 
Editor. Such comments as the such & such department is living off past 
reputations and has done nothing in their present programs to substantiate 
this reputation, are common statements to be heard from many a 
frustrated, unstimulated student. H&SS, which has never enjoyed this 
former reputation, Architecture, Drama, and Design have all received 
some version of the above remark.
Freshman are commonly heard saying, What does it all mean ? 
What it means is that both the students and administration should start 
reevaluating the programs they are in or are designing, repectively. Both of 
these groups are feeding off what once was, and disregarding, or at least 
paying less attention to, what is happening at CMU now. Many 
departments have failed to make valid adjustments to their programs 
which are desperately needed. The high attrition rate may be explained by 
the fact that many students come to CMU with expectations based on the 
fictitious reputation with no bearing on present day reality concerning the 
strengths and weaknesses of this University. Although new programs are 
always being instituted, such as E&PA and the new chemistry oriented 
Biology Department, certain programs, Architecture and some Humanities 
in particular, could stand some honest rvaluation and improvement.
y This is 1973, not 1900 and Carnegie Mellon University, not 
Carnegie Institute of Technology, or for that matter any of the 
numerous small Liberal Arts Colleges. Our programs and our attitudes 
should start revealing this.
Gary Singer 
News Editor
LETTERS:
PERSONAL COMMENTARY:
by David BandlerTo: Whom It May ConcernFrom: Crusader WoodchuckRe: Have a hit a this shit, man; the latestcharade
I jealously hoped that the letter 1 wrote 
last week, prompted as it was by a 
particular event, would be the only 
column I would try and write here. But 
there was another intense non-event on 
campus last week that affected all of us 
[us=the C-MU family Jand so theres a new 
can of worms in town. And were not 
gonna eat em cuz they may not be 1) 
kosher and 2) non-redundant. Im speaking 
of the Coronation Day we all knew and 
loved so well and long last TG-less Friday. 
For ahlt!
Here is an apprehension/reportage of it 
as one might have seen it if he hasnt been 
indoors fucking off. When are you gonna 
clean up your act, Jack, sirTThere are good 
and open channels for communication here 
at C-MU.
To make a long story short changing 
isnt allowed on Friday p.m. at C-MU. Now 
I dunno exactly whether it was the potato 
head of physical plant or Dean Somebody 
rother, or Rutledge, or the new crowned 
king, or--as it was in fact-Ron 'Taylor, 
Security Head, who gave the order to clear 
the Cut lawn last Thursday and Friday, but  
these guys have got to be l)kidding 2) 
sleeping 3) bitchy 4) stroking the inner 
walls of their colons with the crowns of 
their heads or 5) shall we say somewhat 
alienated from the activest segment of the 
campus community (students/customers) if 
they think that that order was 1) well 
timed 2) fairly well-timed 3) not so well 
timed, but what the Hell it had to come 
some time soon, or 4) defensible. It was 
just anotherj irresponsible wielding of
It came on a beautiful, hazy, halcyon 
Friday during TGIF time with no band 
after the Inaugural Trick or Treat Cere
mony, Inc., R. Ebner, Prop, had zzzzzz 
taken place through the be draped Ballroom 
windows upon which the echo of the Acme 
squeegee might have still been heard if 
allowed. And there I had sat inside with 
Joy for 13Aours at this, I hesitate to say 
cit, ritual from feudal times. (It was over 
about %of an hour late, I under
stand/figure.) Then she left and we all went 
down to .. .hang out on the cut, on the 
walls and patio.
It gets to be a little*after five and people 
are digging the day, dig, scratch, chirp, 
groove, watch, laugh, football, babble, 
frisbee, strum, dee doodle dee all this 
activity, see, ripping up the grass on the 
Cut (not to mention smelling the place up) 
I guess. Cuz this nice security guard comes 
up to me as I catch the football and throw 
it back to Chate and informs me that, um, 
no more playing on the grass, as it were, or 
something. Say what? Say somebody in 
Warner Hall musta called Security and said 
get over there and get em off the lawn, 
son, so ...
That kind of trip; you know. So anyway 
I thinks Okay, might as well truck over like 
he suggested to the IM field and 
play ... Waitaminute. This is just a 
friendly catch and we were only gonna do 
it for a few minutes and everybodys here, 
not there, and Ill just go siddown some 
more or get an ice cream or something.
Sure feel like throwin, tho.
So we move over to the sidewalk and 
chuckle a little and continue throwing the 
football back and forth between 10-foot 
wide outabounds lines. Which can be done 
for fun, but onceinawhile ya throw a little 
side, right, and tiptoe back in bounds so as 
not to hurt the slightly soggy, springy 
grass.
As I wuz say in, we niggers wuz jess 
playin stickball inna hunnud n twenny 
fowt street, choo dig?Square biness.
Yeah, dig it.
4nyhow, Cu| lawn is beiu^ vacated 
by means of nice verbal transmissions from 
the friendly local red kn white Security van
continued on page 12
Editor:
On Saturday, March 3, 1973, the 
members of Spirit presented one of the 
most memorable Talent Shows that I have 
ever witnessed. CONGRATULATIONS on 
such a successful event. Ms. Tanya 
Allmond is truly an organizer.Donna D. McCall Dept, of Biol. Sci.
Editor:
Realizing that any monetary increase is 
immediately a bad thing, we wanted to 
explain the absolute necessity of a YES 
vote in this weeks referendum. Without a 
positive vote, student activities will be 
virtually crippled.
Over the past few years, the Student 
Senate has assumed funding for an in
creasing number of activities. This fact 
coupled with obvious inflationary costs 
clearly means trouble. To top all this off, 
Student Senate receives its funding by the 
number of students enrolled, and enroll
ment has significantly dropped over the 
past four years. In other words, money is 
very, very tight.
The other idea involved in the 
referendum question is that of the 
separation of the fee. We feel that students 
have been paying an obscured fee and 
deserve to know, openly and honestly, that 
they pay a specific activities fee.
All members of funded activities have 
experienced this financial crisis when 
attempting to expand their programs. The 
proposed increase is minimal and will 
enable student activities to continue 
serving the student body.
'"that's RIWT YOUR HONOR, DANIEL EUSBfiRG DID NOT| 
fN0AN6R NAnONAL SO/KHY BV RL6ASlH6 TH 
PENTAGON PAPERS, FoRTVNAJTa, Ht DIPU'rCff HIS 
HANDS ON.- ER,UH, NOTMfG filOJhlMfr-mATS ALL. "
It is imperative that this referendum 
pass. Please vote YES at this weeks, 
student government elections. Thank you. Leslie Bram, Chairperson, Student Senate Michael Garl, President, Student Govt.
Editor:
Re: Mr. Holobinkos commentary.
We considered writing a lengthy 
response to Mr. Holobinkos commentary. 
Instead, we have just one question:
How did he become such an expert on 
Student Senate problems, when he only 
attended two meetings all year?
And besides, we have a beautiful 
working relationship . . .Leslie & Michael
PERSONAL COMMENTARY:
CityRainbow Causes 
-Wide Disturbanceby Craig Collins
Harmlessly and silently ,^ie setting sun 
of approximately 6 pm caused a rainbow 
to form in the eastern sky of Pittsburgh. 
There was a slight drizzle falling over this 
peaceful town when the residents of the 
community began to notice a change in the . 
air.
I was just walking home from playing 
pinball, Ted Jock, 20, a student at 
Carnegie-Mellon explained, when sud
denly I saw two gigantic rainbows bursting 
out of the roof of my frat house. At first I 
thought it was another mixer gimmick, but 
then I looked around and saw another rain
bow on my right. I rushed into my room, 
picked up a beer and my binoculars, and 
sat out on the Cut watching it.
The rainbow lasted approximately fif
teen minutes, with maximum intensity of 
five minute duration. Many camera bugs 
could be seen around the city, loading their 
lnstamatics for pictures of the phen 
omenon. This is better than a solar 
eclipse, said one enthusiast, Timothy 
Nord of Oakland. Rainbows occur less 
frequently and are usually not this bril
liant. Considering Pittsburgh air, its a won
der that it was seen at all.
Mrs. Elsie Chapman, head of the Pitts
burgh chapter of the Rainbow Girls of 
America, emphasized that the rainbow 
should not be construed as a symbol of 
frivolity. Our girls are serious-minded - 
the rainbow represents the spectrum of 
their activities, not their fanciful day
dreams. Nevertheless, more than 120 
young ladies happened to be on their way
to a Rainbow Girls meeting when the 
phenomenon arose, and only 53 made it to 
the meeting. One girl was quoted as saying, 
But its pretty.
Some residents consider the event a true 
miracle from the hand of God. Raymond 
Sample, leader of the Oakland-baSed Jesus 
Is Just All Right With Me Society, told 
this reporter:
Some of todays young people are 
turning on and seeing colors by using 
dangerous hallucinogens. God is showing 
with this rainbow that there is only one 
way to turn on, and that is with 
Jesus. Sample also mentioned the rain
bow as Gods promise not to flood the 
earth again, as was done in Noahs time. He 
then made an analogy between 4hat and 
water pollution.
If the rainbow was miraculous to some, 
it was horrifying to others. My sales of 
black & white film dropped 200% during 
that rainbow, complained Len Zetting of 
Zetting Camera Shop. Since I sell only 
black & white film, more rainbows like 
that one cculd kill me. A spokesman for 
U.S. Steel put it in a different light: We 
estimate that, in a three-plant area employ
ing 2500 men, almost 100 man-hours of 
work were lost during that ten-minute rain
bow. Foremen notified u: that men were 
leaving their machines and gawking out the 
windows and skylights. This is insane. The 
loss may prove be the $>asis for a new 
steel price increase. i
Even doctors were amiss at the phenom
enon. Enough data has been collected on 
the ultraviolet rays reflected to the eye 
continued on page 12

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 13, 1973
The Faculty, dressed in formal academic attire, stands during the invocation.
Photo by Elliot Arons
BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH
Richard Michael Cyert was born in Winona,' 
Minnesota, on July 22, 1921. He joined the 
CMU faculty in 1948 after having served 
on the faculties of the University of Min
nesota and the City University of New 
York. He received his B.S. degree from the 
University of Minnesota and his Ph.D from 
Columbia University. Last October he re
ceived an honorary doctor of philosophy 
degree from the University of Gothenburg 
in Sweden. Next month he will receive the 
honorary degree of Doctor Honoris Causa 
from the Catholic University of Leuven in 
Belgium.
At Carnegie -Mellon, he was assistant 
professor of economics and industrial ad
ministration until 1955, associate professor 
and head of the department of industrial 
management until 1960, professor from 
1960 to 1962, and was dean of the Gra
duate School of Industrial Administration 
from 1962 until July 1, 1972, when hfe 
became president of the university
President Cyert has gained an inter
national reputation in economics, behavior^
al science, and management. He currently 
serves as- president of the Institute of 
Management Sciences, and international 
organization devoted to incorporating the 
' techniques of science into the field of 
management. As a consultant to the Ford 
Foundation, he has played a major role in 
programs aimed at increasing international 
cooperation in management practices and 
business education, conducted with the 
U.S.S.R., countries of Western Europe, and 
Japan among others. He is scientific direc
tor for the European Institute for Ad
vanced Studies in Management in Brussels, 
Belgium, and is on the advisory council of 
the international Institute of Management 
in West Berlin. President Cyert was instru
mental in starting both schools.
A complete list of the Presidents ac
complishments would fill many more 
paragraphs.
Editors Note: The TARTAN staff and Editorial Board would like to congradulate President Cyert and we hope to see his present policy of sincere concern for the students of CMU continue.
flBlmmm
Mike Uarl, President of Student Govern
ment,speaks about Cyert's close associa
tion with students.
Dr. Daved H. Fovvler, chairman of Faculty 
Senate, welcomes and congratulates 
President Cyert. *>hoto by Henry Collins
REGAL NOTES
UNDERSTAND PLAYS, NOVELS AND POFMS 
FASTER WITH OUR NOTES
Wore now and were the bigesti Thousonds of 
topic* reviewed for quicker understanding. Our 
subjects includo not only English, but Anthropology, Art, Black Studios, Ecology, Eco
nomics, Education, History, Law, Music, 
Philooophy, Political Science, Psychology 
Rel.gi on, Scionco, Sociology and Urban Prob
lems. Sond $2 for your catalog of topics avail
able.
REGAL NOTES 
; 31 AO "O" Street. N.W. 
Washington, D. C. 20007 
Totophone: 202-333-0201
Its a Hard Time to be President
The processional in black academic gowns 
being led by the traditional bagpipes'.
Photo by Elliot Arons
continued from page 1
rare institution that retrenches very 
much. Bub he suggested that private insti
tutions could survive by continuous 
pruning along with continuous innovation.
Bowen also spoke of the crisis facing all 
universities alike, saying, What educators 
have lacked in the way of performance 
measurement they have made up for in 
glowing rhetoric about the results of their 
work. A somewhat disillusioned society, 
which is being asked for billions of dollars 
for higher education, is expecting some
thing more than rhetoric and is asking the 
blunt question:What are we getting for our 
money?
...Ohio State or Michingan State are 
veritable department stores dealing in all 
the intellectual merchandise known to 
man, Dr. Bowen said. The future belongs 
to those universities that streamline, cut 
costs, improve efficiency and at the same 
time push ahead with new concepts and 
programs and with new strengths in onld 
programs...I have no doubt that under Pres
ident Cyerts leadership, Carnegie-Mellon 
will be such a university.
Responding to Dr. Bowens address, Dr. 
Cyert spoke first of the problems CMU is 
facing and then of possible solutions to 
these problems. The days of the sixties 
when money for research was plentiful and 
students were clamoring for admittance are 
gone, and we know it, he said, but added. 
1 am enthusiastic about the future of this 
university. Dr. Cyert discussed the 
dilemma of financing, reiterating his belief 
that increasing tuition only drives students 
away from private institutions, aggravating 
the problem. If the gap in tuition between 
private and public institutions is allowed to 
exist, the private institutions must make 
clear the quality differences in education 
that can justify such discrepancies. He 
examined several approaches to cutting 
costs, saying, It is possible to live with 
more dirt than one desires, with higher 
grass, with fewer services, but asked. Can 
we reduce the size of faculty, decrease the 
numbers of course offerings, increase class 
size, and still...argue that we are providing 
higher quality educationZ.Can we eliminate 
intercollegiate and intramural athletics, 
counseling services and placement services 
and argue that we are providing a superior 
education and the life qualities associated 
with it? He concluded that many academic 
expnses could not be cut.
The President outlined several projects 
that would simultaneously ease C-MUs 
budget problems and provide service to 
society. He spoke of extending education 
to the homes of full-time jobholders, in
creasing the effective number of students 
per faculty member without crowding or 
diluting educational quality. He expressed 
hope that the recently reorganized Division 
of Sponsored Research would attract new 
industrial contracts while reducing the lag 
between research discoveries and their im
plementation. He explained two business 
administration projects, the Entrepren
eurial Center and the Venture Capital 
Fund, that would simultaneously encour
age a diversity of businesses for the Pitts
burgh area, give students practical exper
ience, make faculty expertise available to 
the community and generate revenue for 
the university.
For the future, said Cyert, We do not 
think our salvation lies in growth nor in 
becoming a public institution...the futureof 
this institution, we realize, is dependent in 
an important way on the quality of our 
undergraduate education. But ne reaf-' 
firmed his dedication to research as well, 
saying It is highly likely that over the next 
ten years our total effort in science will be
The Mace being carried by the Faculty 
Marshal, Robert C. Slack.
Photo by Elliot Arons
smaller but of very high quality.
Dr. Bowen was then presented with the 
CMU doctorial colors, blue velvet with the 
CMU plaid design as its inner lining, to 
signify his attaining the Carnegie -Mellon 
University Honorary Degree, by Robert E. 
Lucas, Jr., Professor of Economics, GSIA 
and acknowledged by Richard M. Cyert, 
who stated that it was his pleasure to 
present Dr. Bowen with this degree.
The ceremony concluded with a Bene
diction by the Reverand Alfred L. Pugh, 
Minister, Macedonia Baptist Church, which 
was followed by the Faculty Marshal, 
Robert C. Slack, picking up the Mace, a 
huge metalic scepter-like object, and 
leading the academic recessional. The inaguration was followed by a reception in 
the Faculty Dining Room, where the 
quests were received by Dr. and Mrs. 
Richard M. Cyert, the newly inagurated 
president.
INDEPENDENT FILM MAKER:
PAT O'NEILL
FILMS AND DISCUSSION
THURSDAY, MARCH 15 
at 8:30 P.M.
IN THE 
CARNEGIE LECTURE HALL 
Tickets $1.50; Students $1.00 
Information 622-3212

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTS
THE TARTANTuesday, March 13, 1973Page 5
The Protest of Woman in French Lit
erature", a lecture in French by Dr. 
Michelle Fougeres, professor of language at 
C-MU, in the Pitt Student Union Dining 
Room A and B, Saturday, March 17th, 
P 3:00 p.m. For more information call 
881-4073.
Noted classical guitarist Carlos BarbosaLima will appear in concert with the 
Carnegie-Mellon University Chamber 
Orchestra at Carnegie Music Hall Saturday, 
March 17, at 8:30 p.m.
B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish University Center
^ is sponsoring '.'Israel Week, starting on 
Tuesday, March10 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the 
Skibo Lobby at Carnegie-Mellon. Israel 
Day will feature a Kibbutz Exhibit, Slide 
Show, Israeli Food, Israeli Craft and Gift 
Items. At 12:30 p.m. in Room 45 Skibo, a 
Panel Discussion with leading Israelis will 
be held. The topic will be Israel in the 
70's". At 8:00 p.m., 2210 Doherty Hall, an 
^ Israeli Film will be shown. The name of the 
film is "Three Days and a Child". This film 
won first prize Cannes Film Festival in 
1966. The admission is only $.50.
All people interested in freshman
orientation please leave name and address 
at Skibo information desk..
p Any one interested in joining a gospel choir
sponsored by Spirit, please contact Cecelia 
Armstead, 7B6 MG or Tanya Allmond, 
Woodlawn Apt. 10, by March 16.
Film:"Last Year At Marienbad", by Alan
 Resnais, March 21, B.H. 232 F, 7:30 
p.m.part of the existentialist film series.
$ The fifth in a series of lectures featuring
noted American writers will be held 
Tuesday, March 13, at Carnegie-Mellon 
University. The lecturer will be Robert 
Coover, poet, playwright, and
short-story writer. He will read from his 
own works in Breed Hall of Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie College at 11:30 a.m. 
The lecture is sponsored by the department 
g of English at CMU and is free and open to 
the public.
The Drama Department announces its
fourth and final mainstage production of
the year: "The Incredible Saga of
Montmorency Clutchrider", written by
Joel Houser and directed by Lawrence
Carra. Performances are as follows:
Thursday, April 19
Friday, April 20
Saturday, April 21
Monday, April 23
Tuesday, April 24
Wednesday, April 25
Thursday, April 26
Firday, April 27
Friday, April 27
Saturday, April 28
Students may obtain tickets on 
Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday April 
11, 12, and 13 in the Drama office 
between 3:30 and 4:30. One ticket per 
I.D. .. . Limit 2 tickets per student.
On Saturday, March 17, 1973, the CMU
Student Chapter of the Music Educators 
National Conference will host a state 
convention of Student Chapters. Registra
tion begins at 10:00 and the meeting will 
begin at 10:30 a.m. in the Wherrett Room 
of Skibo. Lunch will be served by food 
service at a cost of about $2.00 which may 
be paid then. The main purpose of the 
meeting will be to discuss the unification 
of all Pennsylvania Student Chapters. From 
32 participating chapters, three people will 
be sent from each. It is an organizational 
meeting to be followed up in the fall at 
CMU.
On March 15th, Thursday, Sam B. Hays,
Chairman of the of the history department 
University of Pittsburgh, will discuss 
"Recent Developments in the Social 
Analysis of History" at 3:00 p.m. Breed 
Hall. Faculty, students and public invited. 
Dr. Hays' areas of interest: Impact of 
Individualism, History and Social Sciences, 
Urban and political history. Sponsored by 
the History Department.
Student Senate elections and Fee
Referendum this Wednesday and Thursday. 
Please vote.
Going Home Over 
Spring Break?
ALPHA PHI OMEGA
SHUTTLE BUS
from C-MU Campus
to: Greater Pittsburgh Airport 
March 23
Departs:
Morewood Gardens at
11:45 A.M. 
2:15 P.M. 
4:45 P.M.
DONNER HALL at
12:00 NOON 
2:30 P.M. 
5:00 P.M.
Fare: $1.50
{ Make checks payable to Kappa Chapter of Alpha Phi Omega)
Make Kese Reservations at:
Ofc
Q
Skibo Info. Desk
Morewod Gardens Main Desk 
Tech Travel Office 
B 102 Hamerschlag House
The Bookstore will begin returning unsold
Spring semester textbooks to the pub
lishers on April 9. No textbooks will be 
accepted for exchange or credit after April 
6. The Bookstore policy on returns within 
two weeks of purchase is being strictly 
enforced now, so the April 6 date does not 
mean that books purchased early in the 
semester may be returned now. Students 
are urged to anticipate their needs for the 
remainder of the semester because special 
orders will not be processed for texts that 
have been returned. Reorders will be 
placed for sold out titles as long as time 
permits.
All candidates interested in competing for
a place on the CMU varsity golf team 
should appear in front of the main 
entrance to the Gym, 12:00 noon, March 
22 and 23, April 2 and 3, with golf clubs 
and shoes for try-outs.
The Associated Block Clubs of America are
interested in acquiring the services of
students who have some experience and
expertise in the activities listed below. This
is an opportunity for students to share
their knowledge and skills with youngsters
throughout the community who have not
been exposed to some of these activities:
Swimming
Horseback Riding
Tennis
Hockey
Fencing
Water Skiing
Boating
Majorettes
Drill and Marching Units
Shuffleboard
Handball
Golfing
Track & Field Events 
Chess
Interested Students please contact Mr. 
Anthony Upsher, Chairman of the Board, 
The Associated Block Clubs of America, 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 261-1161.
Paul Draper, Andrew Mellon Professor of
Drama at Carnegie-Mellon University, will 
perform with the CMU Kiltie Symphony 
Band in a March 18 concert in honor of the 
recent inauguration of Richard M. Cyert as 
sixth president of Carnegie-Mellon 
University.
On Wednesday, The School of Urban and
Public Affairs Professional Seminar Series 
will present Mr. Richard Scamon, the 
Director of the Elections Research Center 
in Washington D.C., former director of the 
census, Editor of the "America Votes" 
series, and author of "The Real Majority" 
who will speak on "The Republicans and 
Democrats: Political Strategies for 1976". 
The Seminar will be held in Room 408 
MMCC at 1:30 p.m.; all invited.
Jobs both on campus and with agencies
throughout the city of Pittsburgh are 
-available for the summer under the College 
Work-Study Program. Students who are 
taking classes may work an average of 15 
hrs. per week, and those not taking classes 
may work 40 hrs. The Work-Study Pro
gram, which was set up under the 
Economic Opportunity Act to create 
additional jobs for needy students, will run 
this summer from May 29 thru August 25. 
Positions are open on campus for library 
assistants, and in various departments for 
lab assistants, research assistants and 
clerical work. Off campus jobs include 
tutorial, recreational, arts and crafts and 
clerical. Any student who has filed a 
Parents' Confidential Statement for the 
coming academic year 1973-74 is eligible 
to apply. Applications are due in the 
Financial Aid Office no later than April 10, 
1973.
There will be a meeting of the Spirit
Housing Committee at 7:00 in the Spirit 
House on March 15th. Anyone interested 
in living in the house next year should 
attend.
Faculty Egg Toss for Spring Carnival:
Faculty are needed to enter in the com
petition. The egg toss will be held April 13, 
Friday, at 1:00. Prizes will be given away. 
If you wish to enter please contact Tanya 
Allmond as soon as possible. Skibo 103 
Campus Mail Spring Carnival.
An organ recital will be presented at
Carnegie Music Hall on Sunday, March 18, 
at 3:00 p.m. by Patricia McAwley, grad
uate Student in the Music Department. She 
will play works by Bach, Liszt, Langlais, 
Franck and Messiaen. The recital is free 
and open to the public.
CLASSIFIED ADS
If you have an apartment this year that*
you will not be living in next year please 
call 621-2939.
For Sale: Portable black & white Philco
T.V. $45.00 Call 687-1757 after 6.
Astrologersam in need of information for
research project. Contact Ron 531-2729 
after 7 p.m.
"Out of town law student, wife and watch
dog looking for a house to rent from May 
30 through end of August. Reasonably 
priced. Call Mrs. Atlee 9:00-5 00 at 
391-1780."
Musicians Wanted for: B.B. King, Paul
Butterfield type of music. Saxophone, 
trumpet, singer, keyboard, bass. Call Frank441-1388 before 5 p.m. or Al 683-0687 
after 7.
PERSONALS
Bubbles,
Happy belated birthday. How could I 
forget?
love,
NEd.
Senate:
it's been ..
Mike & Leslie
I've got a secret plan, vote for me and I'll
tell it to you.
Ed:
I finished my bro
Anna baby,
Yes. STOP. The Kinks, March 
STOP. See you then. STOP. I can't 
D. Brandi STOP, to yet a hold. STOP. o1 your; S
STOP. and then. STOP. Wfe*II. S
. , Jf STOP. STOP. STdP. STO
 n !, $t 14:31 ?60rPGH. 1Leslie

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 13, 1973
ACTION Arrives at C-MU
by Debbie Siegel
Pretend youre a lawyer for a moment: 
This is what you might have an oppor
tunity to do-Work with tenants groups 
on housing problems, work on consumer 
rights cases, serve as liaisons between the 
community and the police, counsel welfare 
recipients, participate in bail-bond 
problems, or help organize small businesses 
as part of community development 
programs to train and employ area 
residents. This is an excerpt from one of 
the many brochures put out by ACTION 
that describes the chances awaiting an 
individual in the Peace Corps or VISTA.
On March 5th and 6th, recruiters, Ken 
Barnes who spent time in the Peace Corps 
in Jamaica and Clem McClintock, the 
Pennsylvania Area Manager for ACTION 
Recruitment returned to CMlJ-for just that 
purpose of finding suitable applicants for 
the Peace Corps or VISTA. You may 
remember they were previously here on 
November 13th and 14th. At that time 
approximately forty applications were 
distributed and Mr. McClintock reports 
that about half of those were returned. 
From this visit, only twelve applications 
were handed out. At the time when I did 
the interview on Tuesday afternoon, four 
of these were already completed, and 
interviews had been scheduled by the 
Placements Office.
Applying to the Peace Corps or VISTA 
is not a permanent commitment to serve 
upon acceptance. Mr. McClintock pointed 
out that it is better to apply and leave a 
person the option. Although the minimum 
age for eligibility in the Peace Corps or 
VISTA is 18, it is only in rare cases that 
anyone below age 20 is accepted. When 
VISTA first began it accepted people of 
that age, but many didnt have the ability 
to adjust. The expectancy rate is too high, 
and they suffer disappointments which 
cant really coincide with the general 
purpose of the Peace Corps or VISTA. A 
couple should apply together. Rarely, 
families are accepted because of financial 
and other general complications. March 
31st is the deadline for turning in an 
application that may be considered for the 
training programs to begin this summer.
When a person applies to the Peace 
Corps or VISTA, they will be evaluated by 
a team in Washington on the basis of skill, 
education, work experience, previous 
community involvement, and references. 
The applicant never comes into personal 
contact with the board because this would 
be financially unfeasible. Occasionally the 
recruiter who is an alumnus of an ACTION 
program can make recommendations to the 
board. The Peace Corps is a two year 
program outside the United States and 
workers are placed according to the needs 
of the host countries. VISTA is a one year 
commitment in the United States. At this 
time, ACTION is sponsoring programs 
which are for full time jobs. The most 
important difference to keep in mind 
about VISTA and the Peace Corps is that 
in VISTA, you will be living in poverty 
with the people while in the Peace Corps 
you may be more separated as you are 
doing a job which requires greater specia
lization in a certain area and may cause 
more separation from the people of that 
country. Both programs require culture 
training.
The most significant difference in these 
programs since November is the new 
emphasis on the importance of liberal arts 
graduates who will be encouraged to apply 
for the Peace Corps and VISTA. Vlr.
Clem McClintock, Pa. Area Manager for ACTION recruitment discusses recent changes in ACTION 
with ace TARTAN reporter, Debbie Siegel.
McClintock explained how this change has 
come about, Some time in November, a 
letter came from Joe Blatchford who was 
then the Director of ACTION, stressing the 
need for a balance in the types of people 
who join the total volunteer corps. Many 
people in Washington and overseas feel that 
liberal arts graduates make good volunteers 
because they have a variety of interests. 
In response to how the host countries feei 
about this new concept with it fulfilling 
their needs for technical professions, Mr. 
McClintock explained that the host 
country works with ACTION in order to 
find which skills are most needed. There is 
problem in the Peace Corps placing females 
due to cultural differences in their images 
of women in professional roles. Most 
countries view women in the light of being 
suitable for jobs in only health and edu
cation. There happen to be more male 
applicants than female applicants in the 
Peace Corps and the result is that more 
male applicants are placed. In VISTA, the 
male to female ratio remains evenly split. 
Skills in engineering, architecture, and 
other technical fields are still extremely 
desirable, but there have been new calls to 
lawyers, language majors, those proficient 
in athletics, especially for coaching. If one 
does not have a college degree, but has 
skills in the areas of trades like plumbing, 
or has a farming background, there is a 
possibility of acceptance.
Another difference which may be noted 
since September is the appointment of a 
new Head of ACTION. Since Joe 
B1 a tch fords resignation, Michael P. 
Belzano was appointed to assume the role 
of leader. He comes from serving on the 
White House Staff. At Georgetown Uni
versity, Balzano wrote his Ph.D. 
dissertation on VISTA. He is now 37.
Mr. McClintock pointed out a recent 
nee development which has had no nega
tive repercussions for ACTION. Nixon has 
been terminating many social programs of 
the government. He announced the dis
mantling of the Office of Economic 
Development and there have been cutbacks 
which affect Housing and Urban Develop
ment. There has been no indication that 
ACTION will suffer from these.
In answer to where CMU applicants 
stand in comparison to other universitys 
candidates, Mr.McClintock pointed out 
from the vantage point of ACTION, our 
type of applicant is'similar in qualifications 
to Princeton students in number and skills. 
As CMU is a relatively smaller school, its
Photo by Greg Nickel
numbers of applicants cant compare to a 
schools like Penn State or University of 
Pittsburgh. If youre interested in finding 
more about ACTION offers, you can write 
to ACTION Recruiting Office, 1405 
Locust Street, Philadelphia, Pa. 19102 or 
call collect: 215-597-0744.
New Provost 
to Speak
Arnold Weber, newly appointed provost 
at Carnegie-Mellon University and dean of 
CMUs Graduate School of Industrial 
Administration (GSIA), will speak to 
members of the Program for Executives on 
Tuesday, March 13 at 4:00 p.m.
The lecture will be held in the GSIA 
auditorium on the CMU campus and is 
open to the public.
A nationally known labor economist, 
Mr. Weber has held several key economic 
positions in the Nixon administration. He 
was assistant secretary for manpower in the 
Department of Labor in 1969-70, and in 
1970-71 he served as associate director of 
the office of management and budget in 
the Executive Office of the President. 
Later in 1971, President Nixon chose 
Weber to serve as the executive director of 
the Cost Living Council.
When he assumes his duties as provost* 
and dean July 1, Mr. Weber will be 
responsible for the administration of GSIA, 
and will oversee the School of Urban and 
Public Affairs (SUPA) and the College of 
the Humanities and Social Sciences.
The Program for Executives is a nineweek intensive course for executives to 
brush up executive managerial techniques, 
and to learn about the newest ideas in 
business administration. Webers lecture is 
part of an Outside Speakers Program 
co-sponsored by GSIA and SUPA.
TA KTAN OPINION POLL: FILM PROGRAM
Ed. note: The second in a series of such surveys by the TARTAN, the 
following is a poll to determine student interest in expanding the film at 
C-MU (circa 16 Millimeter Program, TARTAN, March 6, p. 6). YOUR 
response can be effective in determining the ex stance and nature of such 
a program.
Polls may be returned through the campus mail or in person to the 
TARTAN Office, Rm. 50, Skibo. The results will be published in a future 
issue of the TARTAN.
1. Have you taken film courses at C-MU?
(yes no)
2. If so, which?
3. How would you evaluate the courses you took in terms of their 
professional nature?
(very professional 1 2 3 4 5 unprofessional)
4. Are you interested in having a film major/minor program at C-MU?
(yes no)
5. Had a film program existed at C-MU when you applied, would it have 
enhanced your interest in the school?
(yes no)
6. If interested in a film program at C-MU, do you think it should have an 
interdisciplinary nature?
(yes no)
7. If interested, what is your primary area of interest?
(Film Making Film Criticism Script Writing Other)
8. Do you consider the lack of a more comprehensive film program to be a 
detriment to the structure of C-MU education?
(very much 1 2 3 4 5 not at all)
Comments:
SCHOOL:CLASS:

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 13. 1973-Page 7
Students Running for City Council
Tom Lang
Two area college students have ex
pressed interest and have become involved 
in City Government. Richard Green, a Pitt 
freshman with a self-defined major in Inter
national Relations has announced and filed 
for his candidacy for City Council. Greg M.
Kostelac, 23, a junior'at Duquesne major
ing in political science and pre-law is cur
rently on a leave of absence from school.
He is serving as an aid to the Director of 
the Allegheny County Bureau of Public
Information but plans to return to school 
in the fall.
Richard Green had his first taste of pol
itics at the age of 14 when he served as a 
committee person for John Tabor, who 
opposed Pete Flaherty in the race for 
mayor. It was through his door to door 
campaigning where he talked with the 
people that he became interested in govern
ment and recognized its duty to serve the 
needs of the people. Presently, he sees city 
government as not being responsive to the 
people and the correction of this defi
ciency is a major issue of his campaign.
Green has pointed out that nearly 50 
percent of the people in Pittsburgh are age 
25 or under. Right now there is no one on 
the Council who can effectively represent 
them.
This motivation to run for council was 
also buttressed by the encouragement that disgusting to keep hearing the same rhethe received from people while he was col-  oric from all the candidates. I have a carte 
lecting signatures for his candidacy. Most blanche from the party to say anything I 
of the people that he spoke with conveyed believe, Green says, 
the impression that the young people are He is seeking Republican endorsement
good for government while the older and the necessary campaign money which 
people tend to be corrupt. accompanies it. However, he plans to run
Green also feels that his candidacy is in the primary even if he fails to receive the 
good for the Republican Party in Pitts- endorsement.
burgh. Presently, they are suffering a 4 to 1 His campaign issues are: adequate police
disadvantage in city government. There and fire protection, better recreational 
hasnt been a Republican on City Council facilities for the inner city, rapid transit in 
in 40 years. I see my candidacy as an the eastern part of the city andtUfough 
opportunity to bring out the issues. It is deprived areas, upgrading of the neighbor
Caligiuri, who is seeking the Democratic 
nomination for mayor. Financial reasons 
also affected his decision to postpone the 
campaign.
Kostelac has a very impressive record of 
involvement in politics. While at Duquesne, 
he had founded and served as the first 
president of the College Young Democrats. 
During the 1972 presidential primary, he 
served as campaign coordinator for the 
Muskie Election Committee in the 40th 
Senatorial District as well as the chairman 
of the Duquesne University Muskie Youth
hoods through improved housing and 
health services, and elimination of the bar
riers to business and commerce in the city.
If elected, he intends to go out to the 
neighborhoods and find out what the 
people want. He will also set up regular 
office hours for the people to come and 
express their needs and wants.
The other student politican, Greg 
Kostelac, had also announced his can
didacy for the city council, except as a 
Democrat. However, he decided to post
pone his candidacy in order to head the 
Youth Campaign for Councilman Richard
Coalition. In the general election, he 
participated in the Student and Faculty for 
McGovern-Shrive r campaign. He has also 
served on the Pennsylvania College Young 
Democrats Communication Committee and 
was a delegate to the 1972 Convention.
While a candidate. Kostelac was com
mitted to the involvement of all young 
people-students, laborers and veterans in 
city government. We are Pitts
burghs future-its future business and civic 
leaders, labor leaders and public officials. 
Most important, we will be carrying the tax 
burden before long as property owners. I 
will not sit back and inherit our citys lack 
of progress. We must use OUR vote to have 
OUR say in OUR own destiny.
Kostelac has a very impressive record of 
involvement in politics. While at Duquesne, 
he had founded and served as the first 
president of the College Young Democrats. 
During the 1972 presidential primary, he 
served as campaign coordinator for the 
Muskie Election Committee in the 40th 
Senatorial Districk as well as the chairman 
of the Duquesne University Muskie Youth 
Coalition. In the general election, he 
participated in the Student and Faculty for 
McGovern-Shriver campaign. He has also 
served on the Pennsylvania College Young 
Democrats Communication Committee and 
was a delegate to the 1972 Convention.
C-MU Computers Make Music
by Joan McGusky
The computer center always had an aura 
of magic about it; people with high math
S.A.T.s working all night on massive cal
culus problems with the occasional P & S 
or English major falling in by accident and 
beating a hasty retreat. A humanized com
puter always conjured up images of the 
Lost in Space computer saying that 
does not compute. In short, the idea of 
entering the sanctity of the computerscience area was frightening enough, let 
alone having to find out about and write a 
story on a computer music workshop. 
Things went at first as fearedgetting lost, 
being convinced the room numbers were a 
practical joke, having to resort to the 
pardon me, kind sir approach to find the 
right room. Eventually however, some kind 
soul took pity and led the way.
Behind the locked doors of the area that 
Roger Reddy is kindly allowing to be used, 
lots of people were sitting by what 
certainly looked like computers-blinking 
lights, little green lines on screens, etc. One 
man, Mike Knudsen, was sitting trying to 
work out the harmonics for an Elizabethan 
piece hes having played. Knudsen recently 
received his doctorate in Speech Synthe
sis getting computers to talk and under
stand human speech, so he really under
stands most of the technical aspects 
involved. Hes one of the teachers and
students involved in the four day workshop 
being conducted by a professor Smith of 
Stanford. Though the course normally lasts 
a semester, or a month as an intensive,, 
summer course, there, was already being 
music produced in only the second day of 
the speed-course. Dr. Knudsen told me 
hed written the piece when he was eleven, 
and that a background of music was 
actually more important than solos in com
puter science.
Knudsen briefly explained some of the 
technicalities of the process required to 
turn voltage into music. Each second on 
the computer is divided into 10,000 
sections. Each section is divided into 
twelve parts. These, however, are too tiny 
to work easily with, so the computer re
groups them in sections of twelve, and 
gives each a voltage of electricity corre
sponding to its numerical value 3 sections, 
or 5 sections, etc. The voltage is amplified 
as sound, or a number of these makes a 
note. The sections are grouped according 
to the loudness, length, and pitch of the 
note. Harmonies are possible. The 
computer can sing, and imitate musical in
struments. Just like a big Wurlitzer, said 
Knudsen.
Knudsens composition has taken a day 
to be translated onto computer tape, and it 
is nowhere near being finished; recording a 
piece is a long and time-consuming process
But Dr. Smith of Stanford has developed a 
new method of grouping the notes and 
voltages. Called score, the process does 
away with a lot of the tedious repitition that 
used to be necessary to create computer 
music. Dr. Smith, a professor of music, 
first became interested in this aspect of 
computers wtien a graduate student of his 
did work in the area for a thesis. As he 
learned, he taught Dr. Smith, and since 
then he has been working in the area. Con
ducting summer sessions, having regular 
classes, and doing workshops like the one. 
at C-MU.
Both Smith and Knudsen are convinced 
of the recreational aspects and abilities of 
the computer. Too many people, says 
Knudsen, look on the computer as a big 
machine. It has recieational value, too. 
Like this one that makes music. Smith 
says that the computer does only what it is 
told, but that it is so diverse that it can be 
programmed to do practically anything in 
this area. There is no sound, says Smith, 
that the computer cant make. There is no 
noise, no instrument, no harmony you can 
think of that the computer cant return. 
Smith talked about the computers ability 
to make the music sound as if it is coming 
from four different areas of the same 
room. He says it can imitate violins, oboes, 
etc. The only problem, he says, is that 
the computer produces only perfect sound.
To make it sound more human, we have to 
intentionally record errors. Slight offnotes. Then it sounds genuine.
Smith talked about a mini-computer he 
was trying to develop, that would do what 
the million dollar ones do, only sell for 
about 560,000. Instead of buying a new 
organ, he said, a school or church could 
buy a computer and it could imitate any 
instrument, not just sound like an organ. 
They could use it for cataloguing reference 
material, giving ear rests.
When asked for a nifty quote to close 
the article. Smith said, There is so much 
to work on, so much to do in this area. 
Theres enough for four lifetimes. The only 
problem Im going to have is choosing what 
to do.
ABORTION
INFORMATION 
ABORTION GUIOANCE
An Abortion can to arranged within 24 
hours and you can return homa tto tarry* day you l**wal
CALL TOLL FREE
(800)523-4436
A Non-Profit Ora*Ualon 
opan 7 day* a -.._

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8THE TARTANTuesday, March 13, 1973
Kiltie Band Premieres Concertino
by Debbie Siegel
This article is for those of you who 
missed hearing the Kilte Symphony Band 
last semester. Comments from that concert 
speak for themselves. One student 
declared, I was really surprised to find 
that the Band played music which I could 
really get involved with. Another student 
remarked, The quality of the music 
appears to be extremely high and it was a 
real opportunity to hear quality playing. 
On March 18th at 8:30 p.m. in the 
Carnegie Music Hall the College of Fine 
Arts will present The Presidents Concert 
honoring President Cyert and featuring 
guest artist, Paul Draper. Admission is free.
The first half of the concert consists of 
pieces which the band will perform on 
April 8th at Carnegie Hall for its fifth 
consecutive tour to New York City. The 
program begins with American Overture 
for Band which was composed by Joseph 
Wilcox Jenkins who is presently a professor 
of composition at Duquesne University. 
Dr. Richard Strange, conductor of the 
band has often commented that the reason 
this piece can be played so effectively is 
because this year, the nine french horns 
can do justice to the vibrant beginning 
which features them.
The Concertino for Five composed by 
Philip Catelinet, a professor of music at 
CMU will be premiered at the Pittsburgh 
Concert. In the quintet will appear David 
Rorick and Richard Purcell on trumpet,
N ary Look on French Horn, Gary Rixner 
oi trombone,-and Dan Reuter on tuba. 
This piece brings out many shades of brass 
qualities within the make-up of the 
instruments. Mr. Catelinet is a former tuba
A Carnegie-Mellon University professor 
has launched a research project to deter
mine exactly how visual information is 
trmsmitted from the eye to the brain, 
knowledge he says may be useful in 
correcting some visual disorders.
At the moment, Dr. Kozak explained, 
traffic signals are very poorly perceived 
by color-deficient people. The color blind 
can not distinguish- between red and green.
But if the red would blink in a special 
way and green in another way which would 
correspond to the encoding, this would 
enable then to distinguish these colors, and 
should prevent many traffic fatalities. 
Some of Dr. Kozaks students are 
already working on prototypes of traffic 
lights which would flash so that colors 
could be perceived by the color blind.
Besides the information about color 
encoding, Dr. Kozak says the research also, 
has produced some knowledge of how light 
and darkness are encoded. With further 
work, this type of information might 
eventually have some application for 
helping the blind.
All of this is only very coarse information--not very detailed, Dr. Kozak 
pointed out.
This is very long research, Dr. Kozak 
said. But the knowledge of the normal 
workings of the brain is important in order 
to know how to repair it in the future. For 
instance, how can you repair a TV set if 
you dont know how it normally works? 
We are interested in finding out how 
information about the visual world is encoded--how the eye cells talk to the brain 
cells, says Dr. Wlodzimierz M. Kozak,
player with the London Symphony 
Orchestra, B.B.C. Symphony, the Royal 
Philharmonic, and other British groups. He 
has explained what motivated him to 
compose the Concertino. I started it quite 
a few years ago- six years- I wrote two 
movements then. I was playing with a 
quintet, but we were playing music which 
the players didnt enjoy because it wasnt a 
true expression of their instrument. When 
one plays music for living, they dont 
necessarily enjoy all the music they have to
associate professor of bioengineering.
Dr. Kozak likens the work to that of 
military intelligence personnel. They are 
specialists who try to crack a code and find 
out what it all means and we are in the 
same position as far as the language of the 
brain, he explained. We want to crack 
the code by which one nerve cell talks to 
another.
The professor and his student associates 
have been experimenting with cats, whose 
vision is similar to that of humans. Tiny 
microelectrodes are inserted into visual 
areas of an animals brain and the reaction 
of the nerve cells is recorded as visual stim
uli such as color or flashing lights are 
presented.
One of the problems which we are 
investigating is the encoding of color 
information in a single nerve cell, Dr. 
Kozak said. We present color stimuli and 
we observe and record impulses and a com
puter analyzes them. We found that 
different colors give rise to different 
sequences of impulses.
We can actually hear these pulses, 
which are amplified when you connect a 
loudspeaker, he added. It sounds like 
Morse code. But we dont know what it 
means and we want to find out.
Eventually, he said this type of 
knowledge could prove valuable in helping 
people afflicted with color blindness.
We are convinced that there can be 
cases of color blindness where the pigments 
are present in the eye, but the encoding is 
not there, he said. In other words, in the 
eye you perceive all the colors, but 
something is wrong with the encoding
you dont have to write like everyone else, 
you should express yourself and write 
suitably to the instruments concerned. If I 
may say so, I try to find new ways to write 
without bastardizing th instrument. The 
public can judge for themselves. The last 
movement of the Concertino was completed 
last year and the first two movements were 
revised. Formerly a piano major, Mr. 
Catelinet with some other musicians 
started the band movement in England in 
1952.
mechanism in the retina and it is not 
transmitted to the brain.
The study, therefore, could provide 
better diagnosis of color blindness and 
perhaps lead to development of some type 
of remedy.
In his experiments, Dr. Kozak has found 
that if light is flashed in a sequence the 
same as that produced when color in
formation is encoded in the retina, the 
brain perceives the flashing light as a color. 
This knowledge has already led to pro
posals for changing traffic signals so they 
can be distinguished by the color blind.
Mark Hindsley . Through exposed solo 
parts and many tense band parts with 
exciting tempo changes, the piece is quite 
appropriately titled and representative of 
.Mexico. Dr. Strange has invited Mr. 
Copeland to attend the New York Concert 
as he has never heard his composition 
played by band.
Paul Draper will perform Morton 
Goulds Tap Dance Concerto which 
distinguishes itself by using a dancers feet 
as the solo instrument. Since 1967, Mr. 
Draper has been on the faculty of CMU. 
Prior to that, he taught at the Julliard 
School of Music and Hubert Beghof 
Studios for actors in New York. He has 
also appeared in the U.S. and abroad on 
stages, television, night clubs, and in 
movies.
The second half of the concert will 
consist of The Suite of Old American 
Dances by Bennett. Two constrasting 
marches, March For a Festival written by 
the contemporary composer, Edward 
Madden and Semper Fidelis by Sousa, will 
.conclude the concert.
If you ask anyone who has happened to 
stop by Exhibition Hall at 4:30 on a 
Monday, Wednesday, or Friday, you are 
most likely to encounter a strong 
recommendation to attend this extremely 
special concert.
WHAT Affi YOU DOING THIS SUMMED?
Pick-A-Project. Reach out, expand 
your world of people and ideas at the 
University of Pennsylvania Summer 
Sessions. Over 290 courses, from 
Archaeology to Zoology, offer credit 
toward an undergraduate, graduate 
or professional degree.
For complete information, mail 
this coupon today.
? First Session: May 22 to June 29 
G Second Session: July 2 to Aug. 10
NAME______________________________
ADDRESS________________________________
CITY._________________________
STATE_____________________ZIP___________
UNIVERSITY of 
PENNSYLVANIA L^J
Summer Sessions 
Room 210C, Logan Hali 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19174
Return Home Flight
SPRING BREAK 
RESERVED SEAT MARCH 23, 1973
Chicago: $51.00
DepartureFlight 261 6:40
Newark: *45.00
DepartureFlight 258 7:30
LaGuarda: $45.00
DepartureFlight 256 6:35
RETURN ANY FLIGHT ON TWA WITH RESERVE SEAT
FREE BUS to AIRPORT 
Boards: 4:15 - Departs: 4:30
Call TWA Campus Representative before March 16:
play. I find some contemporary music isnt El Salon Mexico by Aaron Copeland has 
expressive of the instrument and although only recently been transcribed for band by
Now You See It

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 13, 1973-Page 9
"Upping" Your Image Takes Only A Little Time
Ruth Beach, Director of C-MU Affirmative Action Office, will speak at "Up Your Image on legal 
rights of women.
by Chris Infante
and men. The areas include the facts and
Sponsored by the CMU Programming myths about biological functions, birth 
Fund, Student Activities Office, the control, VD and self examination; comWomens Dorm Council and the YWCA, munal living, unmarried cohabitation, and 
Up Your Image is designed to explore gay lifestyles; and insights into the molding 
the problems and potential of women in process in education. In the second session 
contemporary society and will be held all Qf workshop, Thomas Kerr, the Head of 
day Thursday, March 15. It is open to men AMS and Ruth Beach, Director of Affirmand women. atjve Action Office at CMU will enlighten
Through guest speakers, workshops and participants with the legal rights of women, 
films the emphasis will be placed on what particularly the much debated equal rights 
women have faced and are, in fact, contin- amendment, the new Pennsylvania divorce 
ually confronting in attempting to either jaws an(j ^e recent Supreme Court aborchange or merely understand our own lives. jjon ruling. And women who have sucDr. Pauline Bart from the Department of ceeded in predominantly male fields will 
Psychiatry at the University of Illinois provide a guide to beating the system and 
Abraham Lincoln Medical School will dis- career opportunities by explaining how 
cuss the Psychiatry of Women: Madness they did it.
and Normalcy. A political reporter for 0n Wednesday Growing Up Female 
WQED s Newsroom , Linda Goldstein, wjjj be shown followed by Thursdays Up 
will begin the lecture session with The Your Image program, which begins and 
Medium is the Message: But How is the ci0ses with several films and offers a numMessage Created? ber 0f posters, buttons, books and free
In between speakers five workshops will-literature in skibo Lobby. Up Your
deal with the problems and potential in [mage is free and open to the public, 
specific areas today and hopefully will Upping your image takes only a little 
result in a real exchange between women time.
Civil Liberties to be Discussed
A two-part program examining the 
course of individual liberties, the power of 
the Presidency, and freedom of the press iii 
the United States, will be held this month 
at Carnegie-Mellon University.
The first half of the program, 
American Rights 1984: Prognosis, will 
be held tonight, Tuesday, March 13, and 
will feature noted government and law 
authorities discussing individual liberties 
and the presidency.
The forum, scheduled for 7:30 pm in 
the Wherrett Room of Skibo, is free and 
open to the public.
Participating in the March 13 discussion 
will be Thomas M. Kerr, attorney, presi
dent of th American Civil Liberties Union 
of Pennsylvania, and head of the admini
stration and management science depart
ment at CMU; Marjorie Matson, attorney 
and president of the American Civil 
Liberties Union of Pittsburgh; William S. 
Moorhead, United States Congressman for 
the HthDistrict of Pennsylvania; and 
Richard Thornburgh, United States 
Attorney for the Western District of Pennsylvania, United States Department of 
Justice (appointed 1969 by President 
Nixon). Moderator for the panel discussion 
will be Beekman Cottrell, professor of 
English at Carnegie-Mellon and director of 
undergraduate studies at the University.
The second part of the program, to be 
held on Tuesday, March 20, will deal with 
Freedom of Expression: The Media. 
Featured representatives from major 
Western Pennsylvania media will include 
Marie Torre, KDKA-TV personality, host 
of the Marie Torre Show, and co-host of 
The Better Half; Herb Stein, city editor 
for the Newsroom show on Pittsburgh 
educational television station WQED;
Frank Hawkins, Editor of the Pittsburgh 
Post-Gazette; and Lynn Hinds, radio and 
television commentator of WTAE,
American Broadcasting Company.
Moderator for the panel discussion will be 
Rev. Harry Sauders, Director of Communi
cations for Christian Associates of South
western Pennsylvania.
The forums are jointly sponsored by the 
Student Activities Office and the 
Chaplains Association of Carnegie-Mellon 
University.William S. Moorhead, U.S. Congressman for the 14th District of Pa. will discuss individual liberties 
and the presidency.
i Richard Thornburgh, U.S. Attorney for Western 
1 District of Pa,Dept, of Justice, will appear 
| on March 13th panel.
C-MU Professor Receives Large Grant for Psychological Research
A Carnegie-Mellon University professor 
has received a SI30,500 grant from the 
Spencer Foundation to make computer 
studies of how a childs learning capacity 
develops.
Dr. David Klahr, associate professor of 
industrial administration and psychology, 
will direct the research, which involves 
building computer models of a child at 
various levels of development.
Basically, this is done by building a 
computer* program which includes all 
stored information and processing routines 
a child needs to perform a specific task.
Once precise models of different 
performance levels have been constructed, 
we can begin to examine the difference 
between them, Dr. Klahr said. By doing
this, the researchers hope to determine 
what is needed to stimulate a child to move 
from one developmental stage to the next.
The research will apply information 
processing theory and methods developed 
at CMU by Drs. H.A. Simon, Richard King 
Mellon professor of psychology and 
computer science, and Allan Newell, 
University Professor, to some of the 
problems first studied by Jean*Piaget, the 
famous Swiss psychologist.
Potentially, this work may enable us to 
better diagnose the learning level a child 
has reached and tailor an instructional 
program to his capabilities, Dr. Klahr 
explained.
The grant funds will support the 
construction and testing of models of the
different child development levels and a 
model of the process of development itself. 
Included in the work will be simulation 
programs, laboratory experiments with 
adults and children and creation of 
methods of assessing the capabilities of a 
child at different stages in his development.
The main concern is with the develop
ment of cognitive processes, especially 
those that underlie problem-solving, Dr. 
Klahr said.
But were also concerned with 
developing and applying new forms for 
representing cognitive states and cognitive 
changes, as well as new procedures for 
testing hypothesized information 
processes.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 13, 1973
SUPA:
by Sharon Curcio
Combining the technological knowledge 
of CIT and the sociological Jcnowledge of 
H&SS, the School of Urban and Public 
Affairs is CMLPs innovative investigator 
and methods-maker serving the interests 
of the community, the campus, industry, 
and government. Founded in 1968 with a 
large grant from Richard King Mellon, 
SUPA annually trains eighty students for 
careers in professional management. Dean 
Cooper defines the purpose of this 
specialized training center and views 
SUPA as a response to the peculiar revol
ution of science which fuses the 
methodology of management and social 
science with the computer: Our purpose 
is the increase of public intelligence; public 
intelligence includes criticism as well as 
innovation which extends to the im
portance of the practice of management 
with public affairs. Although the special 
emphasis currently is urban affairs and 
hence local government, we are also 
interested in all reaches of public affairs 
throughout the world. This is by no means 
restricted to methods but also includes 
substantive problems and solutions. Our 
current emphasis is on methods because 
this seems to us the place where local 
government and the conduct of local 
affairs is most backwards and where the 
greatest contributions can be made. This 
includes collaborative work with other 
schools ranging from the technological 
expertise of CIT to the management 
expertise of GSIA as well as our area. As 
evidence of this we can point out the 
schools joint programs leading to degrees 
with CIT, GSIA, H&SS, and FA. These 
programs are new and innovative in 
character, for instance we have the only 
combined public affairs and architecture 
program which yields a Ph.D. research 
degree directed towards the basic 
methodologies of city planning and urban 
design that I know about in the countries 
of the world.
To make a model of an improved 
management system, the SUPA student 
begins a process of sophisticated inquiry in 
a field situation with firsthand obser
vation of an inefficient management 
procedure. After the research and 
collection of data, the student identifies 
the source of the problem, then he 
quantifies his research data also entering in 
the variables of actual management 
practices (or theory) and sociological 
factors; the computer completes the 
problem solving.
One of SUPAs more successful 
methodologies enhanced the planning of a 
total criminal justice system for which the 
U.S. Department of Justice sponsored the 
study with a grant. An interactive 
computer program was developed to help a 
planner calculate the various combinations 
ot a systems cost, flow, financial 
resources, and the consumption of that 
resource, then to increase an operating 
systems workload efficiency and reduce 
costs. The interactive computer system, 
JUSSIM, has since become operant in seven 
other cities.
However SUPA uniquely solves more 
than deterministic management problems 
such as the production and distribution of 
goods or services because their models of 
methodologies include the management of 
people. Not sidetracked by the subjective 
element of human resources, SUPA has 
designed methodologies based on research 
for all levels of government and industrial 
management, in addition to advising the 
consumer and developing collective
Getting People to Do What 
They Ought to Want to Do.//
William W. Cooper, Dean of SUPA, defines purpose of the specialized program which annually trains 
80 students for careers in professional management.
Photo by Nick Lardas
Last year SUPA evaluated a social 
program concerning a voluntary edu
cational program for selected prisoners in 
one of the states correctional institutions. 
Another futuristic community program 
designed by SUPA involves the installation1
ridership revenue with crime and 
harassment problems. In the area of family 
planning, SUPA is developing a cost-benefit 
Markov model to evaluate such a program. 
SUPAs various projects include environ
mental studies, a study of truancy, and
According to Dean Cooper, 
management in a generic sense gets people 
to do what they ought to want to do and 
the authoritarian or hierarchal relationship 
of a manager to his personnel is an out
moded management system. The electronic 
computer symbolizes the peculiar 
revolution of management science and has 
become the device of exploration and 
change in the same way the camera has 
effected both the arts and sciences gener
ating the film industry, mass commun
ication system of television and the field of 
lunar geology. SUPAs direction is to 
continue to improve our systems and to 
formulate new methodologies of 
accomplishment.
bargaining in education and in labor nego
tiations. Flexibility is the cardinal virtue of 
an innovative school and SUPA does not 
hesitate to replace an outmoded manage
ment system with their own creative 
method of efficiency.
SUPA provides many services for the 
civil-industrial complex and has proposed 
programs which range from strategies to 
control the amount of sulphur-dioxide in 
Allegheny County, to recommendations 
concerning the Actions public housing 
programs. Supported by an NSF grant, 
SUPAs researchers provide the tenant with 
information concerning an advantageous 
housing unit, while providing the landlord 
with imporved management information.
SUPAs own process of inquiry and 
solution is a mathematically based systems 
analysis approach to examine and design 
operating systems that perform public 
functions; urban systems research clearly 
reveals the relationship of the public 
agency to the public. For a public agency 
to optimally function, it must know the 
needs of the community and how to best 
serve those needs. With panel techniques, 
sociological questionnaires arranged in the 
computer flowchart form, field 
observation of a system, or even partici
pant field observation, SUPA ^detects the 
needs and designs a way of how to meet 
these needs. Trend prediction relates to a 
need or desire of the community with 
these surveys periodically questioning a
Dean Cooper in conference with Associate Deans Otto A. Davis and William S. Gouse, Jr.
of two-way cable television in private 
homes. However, mechanical engineering 
has not yet produced an efficient and 
economical unit for such mass use. Ex
ploring the problem of transit sec 
SUPAs studies have associated thtf
career education services. Game theory has 
often been applied to researching the urban 
system. The urban problems of industrial 
cities are similar throughout the world, and 
icusjty, t|e comprehensive methodologies of SUPA 
loss of have universal application.
Photo by (VTick Lardas
group to determine changes in the publics 
attitude or response to an item or program. 
Interestingly enough, a flowchart survey 
may not reveal what specific item is 
causing a change in the groups reaction yet 
detects a pattern of change or trend.

---------------------------------------------------

Sat., March 10 involved a full day of well-planned activity for those attending C-MU's annual 
Freshman Parents' Day. Beginning at 9:30 a.m. with registration and coffee, the program ended 
with a two hour session (3-5) in which parents were invited to pose specific questions about 
Financial Aid. Hosted by Dean Swank, Dr. Cyert's welcome led the agenda, followed by a 
"Student Experience" forum involving student and administrative heads. Parents lunched with 
their students' faculty members, after which individual colleges held programs designed to acquaint 
parents with their student's department and curriculum. Parents were also invited to attend the 
campus activities of that day and evening. , Photo by Ed Levine
GIRLS ARE YOU LOOKING FOR A 
SUMMER COUNSELOR POSITION?
Applicants are now being considered for the 1973camp season. Must be able 
to teach one of the following: Theatre Director, Piano Accompanist and 
singing. Archery, Tennis, Tennis Director, Golf, Trampoline, Photography, 
Cheerleading, Riflery (N.R.A.), Scouting and Nature Study, A.R.C. Swim
ming Instructor, Boating, Canoeing and Water Skiing Instructor or General 
Athletics. Secretary also needed.
COUNSELOR UNIT LEADERS
Must be college graduate experienced in camping. Able to plan schedule for 
activities, evening programs, etc. Supervise large staff. Write Camp Director 
2409 Shelleydale Drive, Baltimore, Md. 21209.
THE TARTAN-Tuesday, Mafch 13, 1973-Page 11
'Atneftica. ~4-4 ow. Tttc.
119 MEYRAN AVE. PITTSBURGH, PA.
(412) 687- 1500
BOOKS, HERBS & 
BIOFEEDBACK TOOLS
Learning as Opposed to Being Educated, Access to Tools, Communications,
Techn ics and Tecton ics.
Biofeedback and Parapsychology, Psychedelics - Cosmos, Biologies, Spiritual 
Disciplines  Mystic Arts.
Origins, psyche, Sexuality, Mythology - Archetypal Writing, History of Cul
ture  Cities
#
The Eco-System Eden Ethnopoetics, Eco-Politics - Global Consicousness, Guerilla Warfare  Third World, Madness and Civilization, PsychoPolitics  Manifestos.
The American Land Poets Woman Images
THE HERBAL SECTION provides a complete selection of pure teas, 
pharmaceuticals, body oils, shampoos, fine herbal perfumes, varied inex
pensive fine inceses, high quality Korean and Chinese ginseng and fine 
ginseng extracts, raw herbs and much more. Book sections include Herbals, 
Health and Pharmacology Natural Life Styles and Culinary
BIOFEEDBACK TOOLS available - demonstration models, instructions
MAILING LIST: To be added to our mailing list send name and address 
to American Horse and indicate specific fields of interest so that we can be 
of genuine use. Available are highly utilitarian bibliographies in indicated 
fields of interest, herbal catalogue and information on new services and 
sources.
i1442% An Alternative To The 
See Everything, Experience 
Nothing tour.
World Trek expeditions conducts economical land-rover, mini-bus,and lorry expeditions through Europe, 
Asia, Northern Africa, Africa and Scandanavia. World Trek's low prices include tents, use of vehicle 
(including evenings), experienced driver-guide, motor-camp accomodations, continental sea crossings, 
road tolls, camp site fees, and all other accountrements for roughing it in style.
FILM OF WORLD TREK EXPEDITION WILL BE SHOWN ON 
WED. MARCH 14 AT8:00 P.M. IN 
RM. 7500, SCIENCE HALL, C-MU.
FOR INFORMATION CALL KAREN ROZANI - 682-7651 
APPLICATIONS FOR EXPEDITION ACCEPTED THEN.
TRANS ATLANTIC TRAVEL VIA TWA

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 13, 1973
Hot Stereo
ontinued from page 1
w one of the suspects on campus, and 
ailed security. The suspect was then 
nprehended by Security officers Schoettle 
.nd Castilii.
Described as a black, male, 28-32 years 
Id, with a slim to middle build, about 155 
xmnds, short black hair, large eyes, and a 
lose cut, neatly trimmed beard, the first 
aspect is still wanted by the Security 
Mfice. The suspect was further described 
s a good dresser, and wore a silver ring 
vith the N&S America insignia on a green 
'ramie background on his middle finger.
and a gold ring with diamonds on his 
pinky. He might be driving a brown 
Mercedes.
Speaking to Ron Taylor, head of 
Security Services, he said; In a situation 
like this one, the students involved may 
not have committed a legal crime, but 
without such victims willing to purchase 
what surely can only be. interpreted as 
stolen property, there can be no crime. 
One suspect is now behind bars. One 
might wonder how much more guilty he is 
then the students involved.
Rainbow
jntinued from page 3
rom the water droplets of a rainbow to how that permanent optical damage can 
jsult from viewing a rainbow with the 
aked eye, claimed Dr. Hugh Blein, an 
ptician. Rainbows should be viewed in 
he same manner as solar eclipses, using sun 
lasses and photographic negatives. Aniher doctor, surgeon Maxwell Edison, told 
f the effect of the rainbow on chronic 
inesses. Pulse rate during viewing goes 
.p, blood pressure drops dramatically, resliration increases. This could be fatal to an 
sihmatic, cardiac, or diabetic patient, and 
would certainly be very uncomfortable for 
he constipated.
Whatever the side effects of the appear
ance of giant rainbows are, those effects 
certainly cannot overcome the pleasure and 
excitement experienced by the thousands
Latest Charade
continued from page 3
3! d people. Feels a little like, say, occupied 
P ague.
During the inaugural 105 or so minutes, 
one theme that permeated the rhetoric was 
the fear being experienced by members of 
J.e private sector of the economy of the 
potential suffering in stall for it inthis 
paradoxical, changing egalitarian age of 
increasing Government and shirking of 
responsibility. The Problem of the Day was 
h> w does a great, elite university survive in 
competition with cheatper-to^attend, 
grosser, and less free-to-pursue-truth State 
Universities and the like.
Really! They were into this set. Only 
I'm not being nice to them by not calling 
them Fascist pigs because 1) they are not 
and 2) they are very much like us and 
trying to dowhat is 1) economically 
necessary 2) behaviorally acceptable and 3) 
morally right (although not necessarily in 
that order) in order to 1) survive and 2) 
in prove.
However, in this universitys market, 
v,e consumers have a right to make other 
alimentary demands. And the substances of 
such demands msut be supplied promptly 
and graciously by the university if they are 
reasonable and if the university is to win its 
fight for survival in a world of inflation, 
k s Government support for private 
in titutions, and less interest among young 
people in what these bodies have to offer.
The speeches at the Inauguration 
revealed an admirable determination on the 
administrations part to make this uni
versity a vital and relevant social force, 
and not an island (as if the ivory tower 
myth were true today). One might begin 
implementation of this intention by dis. ering what, in fact, is going on on this 
c npus so as to serve its basic needs and 
therefore those of society. A good start can
b. made by looking out the window on a 
sunny Friday.
Student people playing on the grass or 
si ring, etc. partaking of the extrac rricular aspects of education that 
always bring tears to educators eyes for an 
nstant of reminiscence and empathy. Then
of people who have seen them. Pitts
burghers were still talking avidly of the 
rainbow two days after the event. A World 
Series victory for the Pirates brings people 
massing in the streets in celebration. A day 
of nice weather puts Pittsburgh residents in 
noticably happier moods. Those two events 
are rare occurrences here. The community 
cherishes such moments especially. And 
now there has been a rainbow.
Six simple but blending colors curving 
into the clouds in the east. No one can say 
whether it will appear again. That is the 
reason the rainbow of March 7 will be 
talked about for a long time to come. 
There are still those who find themselves 
looking into the sky to see if son^Things 
there.
Hope everyones pictures turn out all 
right. _____
to swoop down upon them with eviction 
notices from the playground is l)obtuse
2)self-defeating and 3) insufferable.
Simply, the grassy areas should have 
heen fenced off many days ago; or 
chewed-up areas should be fixed and 
fenced promptly leaving other areas open 
for relatively non-destructive play such 
as frisbee, sunbathing, and so on. Or else 
there must be followed a consistent 
laissez-faire policy in which students are 
urged to police themselves. Im sure we 
will be willing not-to play football games 
and other turf-tearing stuff on the Cut too 
soon after rain, so as to 1) keep America 
beautiful.
Out of the corner of my eye I can soon 
see a soccer ball traversing the green/brown 
chewed-up-a-bit-from-days-ago-rightafter-rain-football space from the midSkibo wall toward the Reserve Training 
Center. Ah, the first open act of defiance. 
Soon we retire, Chate and then Bill Fisher 
and me, back to the nesting area, and I 
stop on the way to chat with the Security 
dude and the nice Warner Hall personnage 
whose name I couldnt think of till after 1 
introduced myself (it was Mr. 
Strathmeyer). To them I sort of laughingly 
unburdened myself of my gripe and of the 
observation that the timing of the order 
was, hohoholy shit, so poor. It was sug
gested that I might have a point but take it 
up with someone over in the flashcube 
whydontcha.
And so here I am making an issue of it 
in the TARTAN again. When are These cats 
gonna get it together, man? It always 
seems that theyre trying and doing all 
light when, Zap, one of em acts without 
thinking. Without remembering that the 
ship tips easier when you move than when 
we do, you dig? And we dont like that 
any better than you do, believe me.
The moral of this story is familiar and 
relevant to us all: Dont shit where you 
eat. Dont go panhandling to the bigwigs 
with a smile for S & then kick kids off the 
ill-kept grass; they do pay tuition $.
Incidentally, some black brothers and 
sisters came along about 5:30 and played 
their football game without interference or 
damage.
Problems Anyone?
by Dave Bush
(By the way, I mentioned last week that interesting problems could be brought the Math Club, without mentioning where or when we meet. Come to SCH 7220 on Thursdays at 4:30 p.m., or just give the problem to some official of the club, preferably me.)
PROBLEM: How can you divide up a 
regular hexagon into 8 pieces exactly
identical in size and shape?
ANSWER TO LAST WEEKS PROBLEM: 
Because April has 30 days, you can 
conclude that the only way the conditions 
of the problem could be met would be for 
Sunday to be the .rightmost column, and 
Friday has to be the actual day of the week 
on which April Fools must fall. Checking a 
real* calendar (no need to worry about 
February 29), you find that Christmas 
must fall on a Sunday.
Polls Open
continued from page 1
one semester, while other Senators serve 
one-year terms.) No candidates filed for 
the three open college council seats.
And even in the race for Independent 
senator, one candidate may not be eligible 
to hold the office. The independent seat 
was created to represent students, such as 
members of Spirit, or Co-ops, who do not 
fit into any other categories. But Paula 
Strasser, who filed for the seat in the belief 
that any student not aligned with a formal 
group could declare himself an in
dependent, is actually a commuter. There 
ought to be provision in the rules for 
people who want to go independent all the 
way, she says, adding that she feels 
candidates should be able to define their 
own constituencies. Asked if she remains 
an active candidate, Ms. Strasser replied, 
Ill accept votes, but 1 want it made clear 
that people sign my petitions and vote for 
me on the basis of independent, not 
independent undergraduate resident. 
Dave Groupe, Senate director of elections, 
said he will not disqualify Ms. Strasser, 
explaining that her eligibility could be 
challenged later if she wins the election.
A few snarls complicated pre-election 
work. Groupe reported that due to 
confusion among incumbents over the 
deadline for nominating petitions and due 
to the lack of candidates, he accepted 
petitions after the announced deadline. 
And someone tore down a hand-drawn 
poster marking the poll location in 
Doherty Hall. After Publicity Director 
Gary Crosbie retrieved the crumpled poster 
from a trash can, wrote a note on it ex
plaining that a Senate motion required that 
poll locations be marked a week in 
advance, and rehung it, someone tore it 
down again.
Approval of the referendum would 
increase the mandatory student activities 
fee from $10 to $12.50 per semester and
ruled that trustees of universities cannot 
collect a mandatory fee unless the uni
versity itself controls the spending of the 
fee. (All of the cases involved state-funded 
schools.) To protect CMU, Dean of Stu
dent Affairs Earle Swank submitted to 
Student Senate on February 20 a 
statement of policy that would establish 
legal control by specifying the purposes for 
which Senate may spend the fee, while 
Senate will continue to appropriate the 
money as it has in the past, 
list the fee separately from tuition on 
semester bills. The fee is now hidden 
within the SI,250 undergraduate tuition 
charge; after passage of the referendum, 
the bills would list $1,240 for tuition and 
$12.50 for activities fee.
Senate has the power to make those 
changes without a referendum, but a 200 
signature petition could force the matter to 
a vote. According to Groupe, Senate itself 
called for the referendum after opponents 
of the increase acquired 125 signatures. 
Senate leaders have solidly supported the 
proposal. In fact, senators were given 
posters reading Vote yes on the refer
endum to put up alongside signs 
announcing the election itself.
Senate Chairwoman Leslie Bram claims 
that the extra money is needed because 
student enrollment has dropped slightly in 
the past four years while the number of 
organizations financed by the fee has 
increased. She explained that she also 
favors its separation, saying, I 
feel ... that its very sneaky, slipping it in 
with tuition and not telling anybody about 
it.
Separation of the fee could cause CMU 
legal difficulties, however. Before, the 
administration could consider the fee *a 
type of tuition; in the future it would be a 
mandatory fee earmarked for studenl 
government and Student Government 
Corporation. Courts in several states have

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 13, 1973Page 13
THE C-MU ACTIVITIES
Presents...
IN CONCERT
FROM HOLLAND
BOARD
FOCUS
WED., MARCH 21 
8:30 P.M.
Tickets:
$1.50 with C-MU I.D.
$2.50 Without
Available At:
Skibo Information Desk Pitt Ticket Office 
Duquesne Student Union 
Heads Together In Squirrel Hill
AMERICAN RIGHTS 
1984: PROGNOSIS
Power of the Presidency 
and Individual Liberties
American Rights 1984: Prognosis 
Program 1 
Tuesday, March 13 
Carnegie-Melon university 
Wherrett Room, Skibo 
7:30 P.m.
Honorable William S. Moorhead United States Congressman 14th District, 
Pennsylvania
Marjorie Matson, Attorney President, American Civil Liberties Union of 
Pittsburgh
Richard L. Thornburgh United States Attorney for WesternPennsylvania 
United States Department of Justice Appointed 1969 by President Richard 
Nixon
Thomas M. Kerr, Attorney Head, Administration and Management Sciences, 
CMU Lecturer, Industrial Administration and Law, CMU President, American 
Civil Liberties Union of Pennsylvania
Beekman Cottrell, Moderator Proffessor of
Beekman Cottrell, Moderator Professor of English, CMU Director, Under
graduate Studeis in English, CMU
Sponsored by Student Activits, Chaplain's Association fo CMU of further 
information contact Student Activities, 621-2600, extension 214
Freedom of Expression? 
The Medio
American Rights 1984 Prognossis 
Program 2 
Tuesday, March 20 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Wherrett Room, Skibo 
7:30 P.m.
Marie Torre Host of the Marie Torre Show
KDKA, Westinghouse Broadcasting Corporation Former Reporter with New York 
Herald Tribune.
Frank Hawkins Editor, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette 
Lynn Hinds Radio and Televison Commentator WTAE, American Broadcasting 
Company
Herb Stein City Editor, Newsroom WQED, Public Boradcasting System Former 
reporter with Pittsbrugh Post-Gazette
Rev. Harry Sauders, Moderator Director of Communications, Christain Associates 
of Southwestern Pennsylvania
Sponsored by Student Activities, Chaplain's Association of CMU for futher 
information contach Student Activities, 621-2600 extension 214.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 13, 1973
These three young men just made the discovery of a lif etime.The oldest is 34.
Remember when young people could get ahead in busi
ness simply by growing old? It was a good system for 
those with a little talent and a lot of patience,but todays 
technology moves too fast to wait for seniority.
At Kodak, our extensive involvement in basic research 
has made the need for fresh, young thinking more press
ing than ever. So we hire the best new talent we possibly 
can. Then we do both of us a favor by turning them loose 
on real problems, and giving them the freedom and re
sponsibility they need to solve them.
Thats how three Kodak scientists in their early thir
ties just made a breakthrough in liquid lasers, develop
ing an organic dye laser with a continuous beam. Their
discovery means more than just a new kind of laser. It 
means a whole range of new laser applications, in fields 
from medicine to communications.
It was the kind of discovery most men and women 
work a lifetime for. Yet these young men still have most 
of their lifetimes ahead of them.
Why do we give young men and women so much free
dom and responsibility? Because its good business, and 
were in business to make a profit. But in furthering our 
own business interests, we also further societys inter
ests. And thats good.
After all, our business depends on society. So we care 
what happens to it.KodakMore than a business.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, March 13, 1973-Page 15
The Candidates Speak
The TAR TAN asked all candidates who filed petitions for student government office to answer a set of questions on current issues. We present their replies here as an aid to an informed electorate. All candidates had equal opportunity to reply; candidates for whom no replies appear did not submit any.
ELECTION BALLOT
Polls are open 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Wednesday 
and Thursday, March 14 and 15. Graduate 
students must vote in Skibo Cafeteria, Fine Arts 
majors in CFA, CIT/MIS majors in Doherty Hall, 
H&SS majors and others in Baker Hall. Write-ins 
are permitted, (i) indicates incumbent.
PRESIDENT (vote for 1)
Tanya Allmond 
Dennis Brandi
SENATORS (A student is eligible to vote in the 
first category to which he belongs)
Graduate Students Association (Vote for 7: 5 
full, 2 half seats)
Ron Myers (i)
UFO (3 full, 2 half seats)
Rhonda Cohen (i)
Willie Roy Thompson 
Arthur Fisher 
MDC (4 full, 2 half seats)
James Johnston 
Ed Levine (i)
WDC (2 full, 2 half seats)
Carol Nemetz (i)
Beverly Robinson 
CCCP (4 full, 4 half seats)
Steven Clark (i)
Joseph Pepe 
Edward Simon (i)
Pat Stellyte (i)
Independent Undergraduate Residents (1 full 
seat)
Gary Cirrincione 
Paula Strasser
COLLEGE COUNCILS
CIT (undergraduates may vote for 2 
no candidates 
MIS (undergraduates may vote for 2) 
no candidates
REFERENDUM QUESTION
Be it moved that the Student 
Activities Fee be separated on the student bill, 
so that students are informed of the amount of 
money they pay each semester. Also that this 
mandatory fee be raised to $12.50 per semester 
for the 73-74 school year as opposed to the 
$10.00 per semester that is paid now. This 
increase and separation should only take place 
provided that tuition will remain $1240 for 
73-74 per semester as it is now. This fee should 
be collected from graduate and full time 
undergraduate students, and students paying by 
unit shall pay $1.00 for every four units.
\ IV v**
% * C 7 ? $ * .> ? **f 1 ** * 4
* * *
s. vTM* I
, 1  *4vj,. I
*
PRESIDENTI AL CANDI DATES
Questions for presidential candidates:
1) Do you intend to consolidate all stu
dent power in Student Senate or do you 
intend to encourage decentralized, semi
independent satellite bodies?
2) What do you think Student Senate is 
for?
Tanya Allmond
Concerning the question dealing with all 
student power consolidation or decentral
ization, I feel strongly that effective leader
ship and represeritation should come from 
the Student Senate to give guidance and 
direction to other organizations. The con
solidation of all student power should only 
come about to serve as communication 
between all governing bodies (such as 
WDC, MDC, UFO, Commuter Council and 
Spirit). The communication will serve to 
coordinate strategies to best represent the 
specific interests of each constituency and 
cut down on unnecessary over-lapping of 
channeling and acting upon interests. Yet, 
there is also a need for these groups to act 
like semi-independent satellites, to avoid 
stagnation in the Student Senate, for all 
governing bodies need a check and balance 
to operate effectively.
The purpose and responsibility of Stu
dent Senate is to be a collective governing 
body that represents specific constitu
encies. Also Student Senate should act as 
the official representative of student 
opinion with the Faculty Senate and ad
ministration. Each member of Senate 
should be committed to bring forth topics 
for discussion and possible action that lead 
to change and betterment of our campus 
community. They sould always try to keep 
the communication bridge open with the 
administration. Student Senate should only 
deal with their personal value judgements 
on specific issues, but the majority of the. 
issues should be handled from the point of 
view of representing the students who 
voted for them and supported them. Stu
dent Senate should concern itself with the 
old problem of mass apathy that is present 
on campus, yet it should not be side 
tracked with this problem to the point of
not doing any other business. Senators can 
take more time being with their consti
tuency to find out what people really want 
and need.
Needed to fulfill the shoes of the re
sponsibility of the job of president of Stu
dent Senate is a person who has experience 
working with organizations, one who is a 
communication bridge builder, a person of 
action and one who is fully committed to 
representing others sincerely in their best 
interest, not for self-centered interest. This 
person should also be willing to go to the 
campus organizations and community to 
find out the things that best fulfill the 
wants and needs of others, from the aca
demic as well as social aspects.
Yes, I am in favor of the proposed in
crease and separation of the activities fee. 
Concerning the separation of the fee on thebill the reason for this is merely to be 
honest with the students as to what exactly 
they are paying for their activities and 
maybe become more concerned about how 
their money is spent. As the chairman of 
the finance committee for two years Ive 
come to learn about the increasing finan
cial needs of organizations on campus. 
More and more organizations are coming 
up with better programming activities. The 
need is there and there are concerned stu
dents around to carry out activities. In 
71-72 the Master Student Activities ac
count receive about $76,000 to be alloca
ted to organizations, then in 72-73 this 
year the amount went down to $72,000. 
But luckily Student Senate had three 
sources of income other than the activities 
fee, that added to about $13,809. Next 
year there will be no extra income nor will 
the enrollment really skyrocket by next 
fall. So without the additional income and 
about the same amount of students so 
without the increase a good many activities 
will be cut from funding or take a decrease 
in their budget that will greatly reduce the 
amount of activities programmed that pre
sently exist!! Why should organizations 
like the TARTAN, AB, Karate, Hockey, 
Cameron Choir, Student Gallery, Spirit and 
many more be punished because the 
audiences that attend or participate in their 
programming are unwilling to pay an addi
tional $2.50 per semester to insure those 
organizations continuation.
Your support is needed to make me the 
next president of Student Senate. 1 hope 
my record of work in the past and now on 
Student Senate and various other organiza
tions will speak for itself. If any tiling, 
please at least vote in the election, to make 
this a successful and unquestionable elec
tion.
Dennis Brandi
I can not give a simple answer to this 
question since I see the future of student 
power as a complex structure, rather than 
the simplex structure suggested by the. 
question. Student Senate should deal with 
campus wide events, such as Academic Af
fairs, Activities Board, Trustees Represent
ation, and the activities fee. Since the sena
tors are representatives of all the students, 
Senate should not be concerned with af
fairs that deal strictly with MDC, WDC. 
UFO or CCC constituents. These 
semi-independent satellite bodies are gener
ally well equipped to deal with their 
specialized affairs and Student Senate 
should not infringe upon these affairs. The 
dichotomy of interest between Student 
Senate and the satellite bodies will hope
fully increase due to the change of consti
tuencies. Senators will now be members of 
their living constituencies so that com
munication between senate and the other 
governmental bodies will be increased. I 
suggested this change in Rules Committee 
and hope that it will reduce the red tape 
associated with Student Senate.
I am familiar with both types of organ
izations through the Commuter Council 
and my senatorial seat, and I feel both 
could use improvement by formalizing 
their spheres of interest. I pledge, if elec
ted, to formalize the relationship between 
Student Senate and the other governmental 
bodies, and thereby increase the efficiency 
and speed up the affairs of Student Gov
ernment.
The president of the student body is 
president to more than Student Senate, he 
(or she) is president to the entire Student 
Government structure and I think a much 
more pertinent question is, what is Student 
Government for?
I believe Student Government has two 
purposes, to act as the voice of student 
opinion and to act as a learning experience 
for students. The first purpose often over
shadows the second because or recent in
terest in the political voice of the students, 
however when questioning the nature of 
Student Government we shouldn't forget 
that we are students and that learning the 
ins and outs of politics and finance can be 
as rewarding as any experience we get in 
business.
The administration could possibly run 
and finance all of the student activities 
with less problems than they now receive 
from Student Government. The administra
tion and faculty back Student Government 
because it teaches students more than 
many management, political science and 
financing courses. I think we should in
crease the scope of Student Government so 
that more students will have the chance to 
experience the unique college experience.
Some of the affairs Student Govern
ment could deal with are help for short 
term, small group activities, charitable ac
tivities, student run housing, and improved 
Freshman orientation. If elected I hope 
that these and other improvements brought 
to my attention can be realized. With the 
help of the Muueftts and a receptive admin
istration, as we have now, C-MU may be
come a great place to go to school.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 13, 1973
SENATORIAL CANDIDATES
Questions for senatorial candidates:
1) Do you favor the proposed increase 
and separation of the activities fee? How 
would you adjust the budget' if the increase 
wins'if it loses?
2) To what degree, and through what 
organization, should students influence 
academic policy?
3) What do you think Student Senate is 
for?
INDEPENDENT UNDERGRADUATE RESIDENT CONSTITUENCY 
Paula Strasser
Having made the decision to run for 
Student Senate, I am answering here a 
series of questions posed to me by the 
editor of the TARTAN concerning 
activities fees, budgets and academic 
affairs.
Concerning the proposed hike in the 
activities fee that each student pays: We 
now pay $ 10.00/semester in activities fees. 
The proposal is to raise this amount to 
$12.50, i.e. an increase of $2.50. Anyone 
who has taken an economics course (and 
anybody else, too) can see that an increase 
of $2.50 doesnt make too much of a 
difference when you look at the total 
amount you will be paying. Whats the 
difference between $1250 and $1252.50? 
Two-fifty, a sum which will hardly break 
anyone coming to Carnegie-Mellon. With 
the costs of everything from food on up 
rising so sharply, the proposed increase is, 
valid and should be voted in by refer
endum.
Concerning the budget: I would not like^ 
to see any of the clubs presently receiving 
money from Student Senate dropped from 
the list (and the proposed fee increase can 
help offset this). But if budget cuts have to 
be made, they should be made at the 
expense of those organizations that do not 
serve a large minority of the campus 
population. This, unfortunately, would 
have to include special interest groups.
Concerning academic affairs: Each
department in the University has or should 
have, a Student Advisory Committee to 
make recommendations and, in general, 
work with faculty on academic problems. 
This should not be the concern of the 
Senate, except in those cases that come to 
its attention through conversations with 
students, faculty, or by the Senators own 
observations.
Concerning Student Senate: The Senate 
is a potentially powerful body of students 
who can, if they pull together, work for 
the improvement of C-MU. However, from 
what 1 have observed, the Senate is rigidly 
constructed and controlled by Roberts
Rules, of Order. The purpose of the Sen
ate is to bring together all of the different 
sections of the campus community under a 
centralizing agency. The Senate should be 
the mouthpiece of the Student Body, and 
not the mouth of a few.
Now comes the good part!
Although I am listed on the ballot as an 
Independent Undergraduate Campus Res
ident, let it be known that I am running 
simply as an Independent. This means 
that my constituency is not the Commuter 
Council (although I live off-campus), WDC, 
MDC, UFO or the Graduate Students 
Society. As my platform concerns all stu
dents, my constituency is all students, 
whether they live on or off campus.
This essentially is my platform. Senate 
belongs right now, to the Senators, not the 
students. My aim, by running as an ind
ependent candidate, is to try to give the 
average student-on-the-Cut more of a voice 
in what goes on in the Senate. In short, the 
Senate has to be made more open, in order 
to attract more student interest, and to see 
that the students interests are heard.
Final plea: Whether or not you vote for 
me, it is important that you vote. Its the 
old story ; if you dont speak, you dont get 
heard.
WOMENS DORM CONSTITUENCY
Joseph Pepe
COMMUTER CONSTITUENCY
Steve Clark
Student Senate at present has little real 
power. Two major improvements are the 
independent Student Government Cor
poration and the separation of the 
activities fee. Senate will now be funded 
directly instead of asking the University for 
an allowance. The proposed increase of 
$2.50 is only a small fraction of the fees 
you pay, yet it would increase the budget 
by 25 percent. The spending of this money 
by the funded organizations will be super
vised by Senate to prevent waste. Never
theless, I was against the original increase 
until the referendum was set up, not 
because the money isnt needed (which it 
is), but because it is a question which the 
student body as a whole should decide.
On the other hand, the Senate should 
decide on questions in matters such as 
academic affairs, since it fairly represents 
all 6 student constituencies. I say should 
because I think Senate could do a better 
job. What it really needs is support from 
the students. Dont just bitch about what
Carol Nemetz
The proposed increase in the activities 
fee is justified. It provides every student 
who takes advantage of it a better return 
per dollar than anyone would receive act
ing independently. Separation from the 
actual tuition provides knowledge every 
student should have direct access to. If the 
increase does not go thru most organiza
tions will not suffer monetarily, but the 
quality of input to each will decrease. This 
is not because of a loss of funds, but be
cause of loss of purchasing power.
Student Senate must rry to regain a 
stronger foothold towards influencing 
academic policy as a whole. The SAC is 
fine for pinpointing exactly what is needed
in each department, but for various reasons 
action is never taken. It is Senates respon
sibility to remove these barriers and help 
attain what is best for the students. This 
will include removing political and mone
tary restrictions coloring curriculum 
changes through Faculty Senate.  . .
Senate is a necessary and integral part of 
our campus. It is a unique organization in 
that it represents every student. It must 
legislate and be responsible for all activi
ties. Also, it must supervise and coordinate 
extra-curricular activities.
DRUG INFORMATION 
PEER HELP CENTER . 
687-7414 BAKER HALL 150-A
Senate doesnt do, come down to the 
meetings and talk to the senators, or better 
yet, pick up a petition and run for office 
yourself.
Beverly N. Robinson
Student Senate, by virtue of its make
up, should be entirely representative of the 
student population. The senators should 
represent their constituency. By re
present, I do not mean merely to get voted 
in by the members of that constituency 
and then forget that they exist. A senator 
should familiarize him/herself with their 
views and vote according to their senti
ments. Student Senate should be the
students voice in policy making on
campus. Education without representation 
is ridiculous. Student Senates should be 
part of the administration. Students can 
and should influence academic policy 
through the Senate. Our present Senate is 
respected in the ranks of the upper 
echelon. Our voices could be heard more 
clearly, however, if we form a coalition 
with the Student Senate. Through such a 
coalition between students and Senate, the 
administration could get concise and 
effective feedback on student feeling 
.toward present and future policies. How 
can Dr. Cyert, the administration, faculty, 
etc. know what we want from this uni
versity if our representatives do not tell 
them?The present Senate is working at a 
good level. I believe it should work at its 
best level. That can only be achieved if we 
have responsible people; backed by the 
students, filling the role of senators.
Separation of Student Activity fee is a 
must. Students should become aware of 
what they are paying and why. I found out 
that many students were not even aware of 
the^ fee. At first I was against the raise 
because most students do not know where 
the present money is being spent. However, 
after careful investigation, I am satisfied 
that our money is being 'handled ade
quately. To the best of my knowledge all 
activities funded by this fee are open to all 
the students of this campus. Even though 
you personally may not be a member of 
each and every organization, they are 
serving a number of students on campus. 
Without this fee, CMLTs campus would be 
dead. Funds from this fee serve everyone 
on this campus by providing a variety of 
activities in which we may participate. Any 
enlargement of this fee would serve not 
only to make the existing activities better, 
but would prompt other activities, until 
now economically disabled, to function. 
If you want to know where your money is 
going .. . ask. It isnt a secret. You may be 
surprised by the clubs already in existence 
within the CMU community. I was. If the 
increase does not go through, we may look 
forward to the probability of clubs 
functioning below par as well as the death 
of brilliant brainstorms. This will result 
from cutbacks in existing budgets*all part 
f the high cost of living.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 13, 1973Page 17
UFO CONSTITUENCY
Rhonda Cohen
1. Yes, I favour the proposed increase 
and separation of the activities fee. The 
separation is necessary to inform the CMU 
students exactly what they are paying for. 
There is no reason to be deceptive and say 
$1250.00 for tuition when it is actually 
only $1240.00 for tuition and $10 for the 
activities fee. I also favour the increase in 
fee since it is necessary to support the 
various campus activities. Without the in
crease, the organizations will NOT receive 
as much money as they request, whereas 
with the increase passing, this goal is more 
plausible. The fee increase will also help 
new (and previously unfunded) organizations--such as U.F.O.-receive the money 
they would like. Also, this increase is small 
enough so as to not hurt any one person 
while it is large enough to benefit all 
campus activities 2. Students should in
fluence academic policy through Student 
Senate and through their various college 
councils and departmental advisory 
committees. Student Senate should make 
suggestions concerning academic policy in 
general--i.e. affecting the entire campus 
community. The college councils should 
m4 decisions concerning the various 
college requirements and procedures, while 
the departmental advisory committees
Willie Roy Thompson1. I do not favor the proposed increase 
in the student activities fee but do favor its 
separation from the tuition. Many existing 
organizations such as M.D.C., W.D.C., and 
Student Government could pool their 
resources (labor, capital) to eliminate waste 
and develop a solid program of activities 
for the entire student body. I am con
vinced of the feasibility of this suggestion 
from my past associations with Student 
Government finance and M.D.C.
2. Students should influence academic 
policy to the farthest degree possible 
because these decisions will eventually 
affect them. Students should be aware, if 
not participants in, of various groups such 
as the student advisory committees, college 
council, and other academically oriented 
committees.
3. Ideally, Student Government (senate 
is a sub-division) is the vehicle through 
which students may control various aspects 
of their college life and influence other
should influence the departments curri
culum and degree requirements. Student 
Senate should have no say in the individual 
department and college requirements 
because it is too diverse a group to fully 
understand all the intricasies of their rules. 
Thus, I believe that Student Senate should 
make decisions concerning only general 
university academic policies.
3. Student Senate is a senate of students 
whose purpose is to make decisions con
cerning the daily lives of students at CMU. 
It makes decisions on all aspects of campus 
life--and just campus life. Student Senate 
passes legislation affecting the entire 
campus community--not only CMU 
students, but also anyone else using this 
universitys facilities.
Student Senate is for the students of 
Carnegie-Mellon University. It is run by 
students elected by their constituencies 
and run for the students the various 
senators are representing. Each senator 
should be obliged to vote in favour of 
items beneficial to his constituency and 
against those in opposition to it-whether 
or not his (her) personal opinion coincides.
I shall be voting advantageously for 
U.F.O.-and shall be using my years ex
perience on Student Senate and my years 
experience on Panhellenic council and 
U.F.O. to guide me to that end.
aspects that they dont control. If, Student 
Government, is a forum or receptacle 
depending on your outlook for the ideas of 
students to receive recognition and action 
if feasible.
GRADUATE STUDENTS CONSTITUENCY
Ronald T. Myers
1. I do favor the increase in the student 
activities fee because it will allow the Stu
dent Senate to increase the number and 
amount of student services. The separation 
of the fee from general tuition I do favor as 
well because it allows students to see where 
their money goes and that may lead to 
greater scrutiny on the students part of the 
destination of their money. If the proposal 
wins I would vote for an increase in fund
ing to those campus groups who have a 
large membership or serve a large number 
of students. If the proposal loses-I pro
pose a cut in Activities Board budget.
2. Due to the specialized nature of 
academic policy and intricacies of dealing 
with the professors who make the deci
sions, the various Student Advisory Com
mittees should influence academic policy. 
The basic problem is how does an organiza
tion like the Student Senate pass resolu
tions that the professors will follow. The 
extent of student influence should not be 
rigidly defined.
3. Student Senate should be an organi
zation devoted to improving and main
taining the quality of non-academic life on 
campus.
MENS DORM CONSTITUENCY
CTP@fflr d
July 2 -22, 1973 
All expenses $850
Under the auspices of the International Center 
for Languages and Carnegie-Mellon University.
University credits optional
See Dr. Beekman Cottrell, Department of
English, Baker Hall 261 for futher information
James Johnston
1. Although I favor the separation of 
the activities fee from tuition as better 
representation, I do not support the raising 
of the fee at this time because I fail to see 
results proportional to the funds spent by 
Student Senate. Activities Board receives 
about half of S.S. funds, and does not seem 
to present results that are in proportion. 
The TARTAN and WRCT, which receive 
much of the remaining funds, are much 
more visible. The TARTAN reaches at least 
4/5 of the school population, a fraction 
that AB does not even approach. If the fee 
increase is passed, I would favor more 
funds to the smaller groups and clubs, with 
some of the money going toward the TAR
TAN and WRCT, IF THEY GO FM, as 
they plan to. If the fee increase fails to 
pass, I would favor taking the necessary 
cuts out of Activities Board, with the 
understanding that they would cut out 
their more unpopular series to compensate.
2. I feel that students should have the 
ability to change Academic Policy through 
their own action. The new Academic Af
fairs committee could provide a mechanism 
for student complaints and suggestions, but 
they havent existed long enough to show 
their policies, so I will reserve comment for 
the present.
3. Student Senate should be an organ
ization dedicated to doing what its consti
tuents want, when its constituents want. 
They are not this, as the recent flurry over 
,the activities fee showed. The attitude ex
pressed at the meeting the fee was dis
cussed at was not What do the students 
want? but what shall we do to the stu
dents? There was no mention of a referen
dum until several Senators pointed out that 
they had the necessary support to force 
one. This brought out the comment that 
S.S. should protect its credibility by ask
ing for a referendum itself, which seemed 
to be a good idea to most of the members. 
There was no mention of a referendum, or 
even an open hearing until the mention of 
the petition for a referendum.
I feel that S.S. should show, at least 
interest, if not attention to its contituents.
International Center for Language Studies 
1346 Connecticut Ave., N. W., Washington, D. C.
Edward Levine
1. 1 am strongly in favor of the proposed 
activities fee increase and separation on the 
student bill for several reasons. The con
tinuation of student activities on this 
campus as they exist now is dependent on 
the increase. This years Senate budget 
would have surely gone in the red if it 
wasnt for increased funds in the form of 
bookstore rebates and last years surplus. 
Next years budget will not benefit from 
this. To complicate matters, a forecast of 
lower student enrollment will mean even 
less funds. As a member of the finance 
committee, I know that organizations are 
asking for more money for next year just 
to meet inflation expenses. Also, there is 
no way to know now if new organizations 
will ask for money next semester. It is 
important to note that CMLPs activities fee 
is considerably lower than many private 
and public universities.
Separation of the activities fee on the 
bill is quite important to make the student 
body aware that their money is paying for 
campus activities and that student 
government is the vehicle for distributing 
that money.
If the increase passes, organizations can 
continue to receive student funds as they 
have been in the past. If it doesnt pass, 
there will be serious cuts in all 
organizations. The three biggest 
organizations, The Activities Board, The 
TARTAN, and WRCT will probably suffer 
the most. An increase in the activities fee is 
imperative to continue the status quo of 
student activities at CMU.
2. Students can best influence academic 
policy through the Student Advisory 
Councils of each department and through 
Senate and the many academic committees 
that senators and other students sit on. 
These committees operate on all levels 
from Faculty Senate to the Trustees. 
Students should have voting rights and 
reasonable representation on all 
committees that affect their academic 
situation. Students should help determine 
curriculum and teacher tenure.
3. In the eyes of many, Student Senate 
is little more than a mockery, its only 
function being to distribute money. In my 
eyes however, Senate could and should do 
a lot more. A powerful Senate could affect 
many changes because of the respect that it 
would command. Through the Student*
Government Corporation, Senate could 
conceivably control many other campus 
functions e.g. dormitories, to provide 
better services for the students. Student 
Senate should be a lot more than just a 
bank but this is only possible if there is 
strong support and participation from the 
students it serves.

---------------------------------------------------

ENTERTAIN MERIT__________
7red Chappell-...but Jve been made since
Page 18-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 13, 1973
Fred Chappell talking to students between stops in his heavy schedule.
Photo by Henry Collins
ConcertsMidler
by Susan N. Klein
The Mosque almost burst like a warped 
zeppelin on fire. Pitts! Her word, she said 
it! She said Pitts! Isnt that the Pitts*?. . .
Were touring tacky cities, and 
PITTSburgh is Numero Uno. Another 
thunder clap. She said it again.
Here we are in the Syria Moskowitz. 
Oh, Bette, youve got us. Were all yours. 
We love you, Bette. We love you.
The attraction is mystical. It defies ex 
planation. Shes just up there, and if you 
love her, it is with every vestige of devotion 
and worship you can muster up in your 
tired old heart. Four or five years ago, 
Bette was Johnny Carsons Favorite Freak, 
with her red fingernails, red lipstick, opentoe shoes, Andrew Sisters dresses,Andrew 
Sisters music, and Johnny laughed in her 
face. But we knew better. So did the boys 
in New Yorks Continental Baths, and they 
still do. She draws the gay boys like a 
magnet, like Garland did, but its different 
with Bette. She used to be just Camp, and 
although she still does the same material, 
shes now brought a slick classiness to her 
performance, wild, but wise and carefully 
planned movements, and she knows her 
audience, she knows how to get that love. 
Unlike the suffering, almost pathetic 
quality of Garland. Bette is young and 
funny, irreverant, unabashed, she do<;s 
what she damn well pleases, and we love it.
We were there together at the Mosque, 
and we were decked out to a T. Slick 
clothing, smiling, beaming, squeezing each 
others hands in anticipation, squeezing 
through the bodies. And oh, what bodies. 
Pittsburghs finest, out for an evening with 
their queen, The Divine Miss M. The 
exquisite gay faces, writhing above the 
dazzling blazers, the bejewelled fingers, the 
braceletted wrists, and coughing at the 
smoke.
The Harlettes, her backup chorus, 
slithered slowly onto the stage, three 
female bodies clad in black swaying 
between three mike poles and a palm tree. 
From the sky someone yelled out her name 
and a white spot caught her upstage right; 
smiling, arms flung out reaching, head 
thrown back, and we roared.
She clutched the mike and closed her 
eyes.
And I am all alone ...
She was thinner than we were used to. 
Bright red shirt, black slacks; she looked 
petite, she looked great. She always looks 
great.
But you got to have friends!
She sounded great. We love you, Bette. 
We love you. We sat on the edges of our 
seats, straining forward, eyes chained like 
slaves to her graceful body, ears turned 
inside out. You die if you miss a word, 
dont miss a syllable of what she says.
Friday night in PITTSburgh!
Bette bops to the apron of the stage and 
leans forward, gesturing toward her body. 
Come on, love me. We love you, Bette. 
Its now a chant going through the glazed 
minds. Bette did a little blues, two torch
by Sally Siegel
Fourth in a series of noted American 
authors sponsored by the Department of 
English, Fred Chappell was on campus 
from Monday through Thursday of last 
week. Mr. Chappell, novelist, poet, and 
writer in residence at the University of 
North Carolina, taught two sessions of the 
advanced fiction class, read from his work 
twice, met with students to discuss their
 work in conference, and spent many 
informal hours with both faculty and 
students in, among other places, The 
Elbow Room in Shadyside.
For his Tuesday morning reading, Mr. 
Chappell selected a poem My Grand
mother Washes Her Feet and the first 
chapter of The Inkling, showing both 
writing and dramatic talents in his brief 
presentation. Under the misapprehension 
that hed been scheduled for only half an 
hour, Mr. Chappell glanced at the back wall 
of Breed auditorium and announced: I 
can tell by the clock on the wall that its 
time to crawl. Not the only quotable 
thing he said, but perhaps the one most 
likely to be remembered.
Throughout, the author of It is Time, 
Lord, Dagon, The Inkling, and 
The Gaudy Place appeared to be 
enjoying himself immensely. Slightly built, 
sensitive, whimsical, Mr. Chappell is a man 
of warm and easy laughter. In his role as 
critic-teacher, he combined honesty with 
humor. He had no easy formula, no 
encompassing philosophy of what fiction 
or fiction writers should do.
Questions for famous writers have, at 
this point, become somewhat routine: Do 
you have a schedule?How do you go about 
writing a novelTWho do you likeTWho dont 
you like?Who has influenced you?Were you 
born or made a writer?
Approximately quoted-Two hours in 
the morining, two hours at night when Im 
hot--The hardest thing is finding out what
songs, honey dripping from the roof of her 
mouth, holding back just enough, perched 
on a stool, bathing in blue light.
Was I gay till today?
But now that man is gone, 
hes gone and we are through.
Am I blue?
In between the numbers the chatter 
never stops. Cuts, quips, digs at Lauro 
Nyro, Carly Simon, Tricia Nixon, Karen 
Carpenter, AM radio, Killing Me Softly 
With His Song:
I wish he d kill her already1 
She does a medly of Do You Love 
Me-Now that I Can Dagce? and Do you 
Want to Dance? Yeah, with you, Bette. 
She does some cuts from her album, Delta 
Dawn, Hello in There. Her whole first 
act is comparatively subdued, intimate, and 
funny, so funny. That voice, that voice. 
Dont miss a word.
The second act saunters in, the Har
lettes; Melissa Manchester, Gail Kantor, 
Merle Miller, in shocking pink, slide into a 
little Munchkin Wizard of Oz chatter, 
and from that to Lullaby of Broadway, 
where Bette does her best to waddle 
around in the tight silver gown she will 
later peel. The four of them fly into the 
Andrews Sisters Boogie-Woogie Bugle 
Boy, and the audience is on its feet, 
trying hard not to fly through the roof. 
The arrangement of the tune is perfect, and 
Bette does it flawlessly.
He was a famous trumpet man from 
out Chicago way . ..
Hes in the army now, hes blowing 
reveille ...
the material is about. I guess youd call it 
the theme. After that its easy .--I really 
dont know what the state of the new 
journalism is because David Noble didn t 
tell me.--I like whatever I read if its very 
good. I like the work of Jorge Luis 
Borges.--I dont like the work of Norman 
Mailer, John Updike, and John Barth.-- 
Joyce has influenced everyone.--I was born 
but Ive been made ever since.
When asked whether he considered 
himself a regional writer, specifically in 
the school of Southern writers, Mr. 
Chappell replied that the South is the place 
he knows. He pointed out, however, that 
he did not fight in the Civil War and is not 
suffering from Faulknerian blood guilt. 
In the question-answer session Mr. 
Chappell was also asked: What do you 
think of the Eastern intelligentsia? The 
reply was quick: Ive never met one. 
Unconcerned with contemporary 
factions and schools, Mr. Chappell is 
totally concerned with his teaching. He is 
not a man who likes to talk about himself. 
Over and over he asked students what they 
were writing, where they were from, what 
they wanted to do. That teaching is a 
twelve-hour-a-day job for him seems 
believable, as does his statement that he 
loves it.
An idealist, maybe even a romantic, Mr. 
Chappell is involved beyond rhetoric in 
racial justice and womens liberation. But 
he does not talk about Social Problems 
and seems not the least worried about the 
etiquette of radical chic. He lights 
cigarettes and holds coats with a grace that 
implies that Southern gentleman may 
not be a Northern fiction.
Mr. Chappell began the Monday session 
by chalking a quotation from Melvilles 
papers on the board: Stay constant to the 
dreams of they youth. He knew what he 
was writing about.
Again Bette, another chorus. We love 
you . . . Bette does another chorus.
And she does a superb, straight Superstar. Dont you remember you told me 
you loved me, Baby?
Her Leader of the Pack is frenetic, 
shaking madly, insanely, but its always 
under control, nothing extraneous, just 
enough to get us up there on our feet 
agian, pleading for more choruses. Her 
back-up musicians (They call themselves 
the Honolulu Fruit!) ore'themselves a 
sharp, professional, and highly com
plimentary little unit. Its leader, Barry 
Manilow, is Bettes producer, and his piano 
is rich and warm.
Bette closed with Chapel of Love 
Everybody clap! We stood like 
marionettes, clapping.
Sway! We swayed. We love you, 
Bette, well sway.
A little more Friends:
Standing at the end of the road, boys. 
Waiting for my new friends to come.
I dont care if Im hungry or cold,
Im gonna get me some!
We stomped, we clapped till our hands 
w'ere numb. Our hands are numb, Bette, 
but we love you!
The bodies moved each other out of the 
Mosque, beautiful happy bodies smiling. 
Bette was off to tour the rest of the tacky 
cities, she the sell-described Last of the 
Truly Tacky Women. And the gorgeous 
people in the tacky cities will all be 
murmuring We love you, Bette. We love 
you.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 13, 1973-Page 19
Measuring Zhe Sensuality of Art 
(Continuation)
by Michael Mesaros
After the string has been chosen and cut according to those directives described in 
last weeks issue, the measurer must take the length of spun fiber, which is, you will 
remember, attached to the investigators person and carry it to the site of the art form. 
Extreme care must be taken at this stage in the process. It is at this point that I and my 
colleagues find the failure rate to be higher than at any other in the proceedure. The 
degree of difficulty at this stage is directly proportionate to the number of senses 
stimulated and manipulated through the art from in question. Forgive my distillation of 
the attributes of a specific media, but paintings, out of the many other art forms 
available, as examples, is one of the most simple. Its major impact is on the eye ball or 
organic structures qf visual perception.
At this moment, it is important to remember the building the painting is in will 
come to play in the final calculations of the extent of erotica in a painting. One can 
easily understand how a painting hanging on a wall of domestic architectural nature 
changes its meaning drastically when hung on the walls of a more public buildingdentists office, turkish bath or Mellon National Bank. The paintings sensual content 
would change just as the meaning of the prostitute down the street is transformed when 
taken from the context of her business location and set to tea with your mother and 
her best china.
Along with the string, a measurer of sensuality or M.O.S. needs a range of 
implements to attach the other end of the string to the art. Some of these things are: 
hair clips, bobby pins, safety pins, tacks, cello and masking tapes, nails, brads, screws 
and C clamps. These a among the more common. Bubble gum and glues tend to 
leave stains and sticky residues; it best to avoid them when possible.
I assume that the measurer is now in the perfect state to begin. The M.O.S. is 
standing before the painting (the art form in this example); the ball of string, with one 
end fastened to himself, is resting in his right or left hand.
The Procedure:
- Unravel the ball
- Tie a knot in the attached end.
-Pierce the knot with a tack or pin.
-Push the combined knot and pin into the painting.
(caution, paintings over two hundred years old often have hard and brittle grounds 
andy will crack if care is not taken in the puncturing!)
-Push it into the spot which at first glance was most significant.
-Move back from the painting.
-Keep the string at right angles to the picture plane.
-Record your observations on graph paper which has coordinates that correspond to 
every point on the painting.
- Record the nature and intensity of the tension which was experienced as you 
moved further and further away from the painting.
-Record the way it felt when the length of string was drawn-out to its full extent 
and the string was pulled taut between you and the painting.
-Record the number of times your gaze left the spot of attachment on the painting 
and fell onto the string between you and it.
-Record the number of times your gaze fell onto the spot where you attached the 
cord to yourself.
- Use yourself as a spool, turn round and round. The string will wrap around you; 
you should find yourself close to the painting again.
-Take the pin out and push it into another point on the painting you find 
significant.
-Unravel yourself and repeat the above.
-Do this as many times as you find points of interest.
Next weeks article will deal with the problems of measuring the sensual content of 
the prima donna. It is often a difficult task because of the many layers of make-up 
which tend to separate the measured from the measurer and makes string attachment 
quite difficult.
Announcing The
FOURTH ANNUAL 
C-MU FILM FESTIVAL
APRIL 6 A 7, 1973
Any CMU Student Film is eligible to be shown
Films are due on April 2, 1973
Additional information & Application available at Skibo info. desk.
Sponsored by AB programing fund
There was loads of laughs and just plain fun to be had at the Greek Sing.
Photos by Bruce Edelstein
Theatre
Workshop Presents "Falstaff"
by S. Breisch
The opera workshop, directed by 
Rudolph Fellner, presented Verdis 
Falstaff on March third and fourth as 
their major performance for this year. 
Robert Croan of the Pittsburgh PostGazette stated,  . . . Fellner presents 
unusual, interesting repertory in a way that 
emphasizes ensemble and theatrical values 
often lost in big-star professional efforts. 
FalstafP illustrated these virtues. It is a 
complex score and Fellner did wonders 
with the student orchestra. He conducted a 
controlled rendition that got through with
out any major mishaps.
Rudolph Fellner began working w -h 
the workshop when he came to CarnegitMellon in 1964. The workshop teaches 
performing. We must give kids a chance to 
perform. All singers, whether they are 
going to become teachers or performers, 
must become involved with the workshop. 
However, not all make it to the perfor
mances. Fellner considered Falstaff 
successful in that the audience enjoyed the 
performance and in that it gave the stu
dents an opportunity to perform. Fellner 
points out, Basically, I am an educator, so 
audience enjoyment is a secondary con
sideration.
The director expressed concern that so 
many young people are scared of opera. 
Professor Fellner emphasized that there is 
nothing scary at all. It is not necessary 
to convince them that it is the now thing. 
There is, however, enjoyment to be found 
in things of the past. I am encouraged by 
the importance of music in the life of
young people, but become bored to tears 
with some of the music. --Good will come 
out of it though. He also stated that there 
is not enough awareness of opera. People 
think that opera is monstrous-and some
times it is. But just as we do not stop going 
to the museum because we do not look at 
every picture, we do not have to exclude 
all opera.
The opera workshop has also worked 
with high schools that have CMU alumni 
teachers. Last year Elixir of Love \vas 
performed with the North Hills High 
School Choir where students from CMU 
provided the solos. Fellner likes to perform 
to mixed audiences of students and adults 
because it presents opera as the stuff of 
life rather than the stuff of school.
In addition to the undergrad opera 
workshop, there is a graduate workshop. 
The central purpose is performance, and 
involves intense learning by specialists. 
Some students have arrangements with the 
Pittsburgh Opera Company and the Pitts
burgh Symphony Scholarship.
The students in opera are doing a 
valuable service for this town, states 
Fellner. Our students are involved in 
nearly all the opera performances given in 
this town. Not to mention church music.
If you misssed Falstaff,. the opera 
workshop is giving one more informal per
formance later in the semester. This will 
not be performed entirely in English, but 
undoubtably will display the talents of the 
singers and Rudolph Fellner.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20THE TARTANTuesday, March 13, 1973
Concerts
Marry Chapin
She wanted to be an actress. 
He wanted to learn to fly. 
Now, he gets high.
by Arnie Karr and Terry Caywood
Harry Chapin doesnt do much, but 
what he does do, he does very well. And 
what he does is tell stories. The apparent 
similarity of many of his musical 
compositions is often criticized, ignoring 
this mans ability to express his feelings in 
narrative form.
March 9th found him telling his stories 
of travel, love, loneliness, and dreaming to 
a tiny audience of about one hundred in 
the gymnasium of Chatham College. What 
the audience lacked in presence, they made 
up for in attentiveness, enthusiasm and 
intelligent pre-awareness of Harrys mater
ial.
The band accurately reproduced the 
studio sound on stage. It is incredible what 
Ron Palmer, the lead guitarist, can emote 
from his electrified acoustical guitar. He 
has the uncanny ability to produce an 
excellent stell, county, folk or rock sound 
on his guitar while adding brilliant har
monic touches to many of the songs. 
Cellist Tim Scott produced sounds so 
compatible with Chapins voice that, at 
times, the two were undistinguishable. The 
cello touch is the musics salvation; the one 
^sgect^of^th^Oiagir^OTOu^whid^r^vent^
the songs from expiring from their own 
monotony. The success of Chapins 
brilliant story telling can be attributed 
primarily to this and to the startling 
background vocal work of John Wallace, 
who also supplies a firm, though incon
sequential, bass guitar. His low notes could 
have established him as an outstanding 
vocal bassist in the fifties, while his high 
notes can easily be mistaken for those of a 
woman.
Chapin himself should feel right at 
home with the Elektra Recording Family. 
His voice is strong and personal; well suited 
for his style of singing. The emphasis, as 
with Elecktra artists from Judy Collins to 
the old Doors, is on the lyric, com
plemented well by the music. One is aware, 
however, of the control necessary to keep 
the vocals and lyrics as the focal point of 
the bands work. The task that remains for 
Harry Chapin is to develop music which is 
interesting, different and versatile while 
still allowing him the freedom to tell the 
stories which are responsible for his well 
deserved success as a raconteur.
The Chatham performance was not a 
musical first, but it did provide us with a 
couple of good stories. But well leave 
those to Harry. _____
FilmCharlie Chaplin-Cime light
Film
Lemmon in "Save The Tiger"
by Winton Snyder
Limelight, starring Charles Chaplin and 
Claire Bloom, written and directed by 
Charles Chaplin.
Limelight was released in 1952 and 
was billed as Chaplins farewell to America., 
The purpose was to sum up the comedians 
rather mild response to his political and 
artistic critics and to promote a personal 
view of age being replaced by youth. 
Chaplin plays the music hall comic 
Calvero at the end of a long vaudeville 
career. His confidence eroded and the 
demand for his services withered, Calvero 
has grown to rely on alcohol and theater 
fantasies as escapes from his tenament 
lodgings and bleak future. By chance, 
Calvero becomes the guardian of a 
neighbor-Terry- whose suicide he prevents. 
Under a steady barrage of Calveros opti
mistic philosophy (which he applies to 
everyone but himself), Terry (Claire 
Bloom) recovers sufficiently to regain 
employment as a dancer. She is successful 
on stage and credits Calvero for her re
discovered abilities. Terrys devotion to 
Calvero prompts her to propose to the old 
man. He resists any wedding plans and en
courages Terry to respond to a young com
poser instead.
When Calvero is to be replaced in a 
small job that was secured through Terrys 
influence, the comedian finally gives up 
and runs away. Eventually the show 
business crowd locates the old man and 
alerted to his plight they organize a benefit 
show as a tribute to his past greatness. At 
the benefit the warm reception given 
Calvero by the audience convinces the 
comedian that he was not a failure. An 
encore pushes Calvero beyond his capa
bilities and he suffers a heart attack and 
dies.
If this sounds Stude to ^ou, re 
right, but the ploj sq^eho\^piefgv*s |ri 
predominantly tolerable; LWikfc **i ...my -Innatioi
themes like the Heartbreak Kid, Lime
light is entertaining and genuine in its 
approach. The saving grace is of course 
Chaplin and the total philosophical 
innocence he possesses. When Chaplin/- 
Calvero speaks of life, he may sound naive, 
he may even sound silly, but he sounds as 
if he believes himself. And the legitimacy 
that Chaplins sincerity gives the film 
prevents the plot from drowning in soap 
suds.
The highlights of Limelight are pri
marily in the music hall sequences. Chaplin 
is a great mime and even though he is not 
quite at his best he is still impressive. 
Always Chaplins movement and manner of 
speech hold attention. With or without the 
excesses of the tramp, Chaplin understands 
and controls the audience expertly. 
Chaplin is not as captivating as a choreo
grapher or as an opera scenarist and his 
over-extension into these areas is unfor
tunate. Chaplin was never an extraordinary 
or especially innovative director, but his 
antiquated approach to the medium only 
adds to the sentimental quality of Lime
light
The film is a modified success and is 
interesting mainly because it is a part of a 
larger body of work and is a testament to 
the broad range encompassed by that 
work. The sentimental nature of Lime
light should appeal to film buffs. Included 
in the cast are most of Chaplins family and 
several important silent film comedians, 
along with a reprise of some old Chaplin 
material. Limelight was first reissued 
about this time last year when 
Chapliniana was at a higher level. It was 
not given the exposure that other reissues 
received, and is not considered to be repre
sentative of Chaplins best effort. In spite 
of this, Limelight offers a worthy perfor
mance and is an intriguing motion picture.
thtttC&rlin dia 
litl
inferfui
by Doug Stone
Save the Tiger, directed by Edward 
Cicotte, screenplay by Steve Shagan 
Starring Jack Lemmon and Jack Gilford
When I saw Save the Tiger it was 
under unusual circumstances. In the 
theatre were two other college students 
and around six people over forty. After the 
movie and ensuing discussion, it was 
apparent that the three of us in college felt 
that the picture was hard to believe, while 
the rest of our .small audience saw some
thing very real and relevant in it. The main 
objection I had was that Save the Tiger 
presents a very heavy-handed view of the 
destruction of one mans dreams. The older 
folks though thought that the presentation 
given was real enough to be believed.
Save the Tiger deals with Harry 
Stoner (Jack Lemmon) and his attempt to 
get one more year out of his rapidly failing 
clothing business, Capri Casuals. He has 
altered his books in the previous year and 
this year Stoner is beset with the problem 
of raising enough money to meet pro
duction costs for the present years line of 
clothing which will be successful. His only 
hope it seems is to defraud an insurance 
company by burning down one of his
factories and claiming the money.
Jack Gilford is excellent as Stoners 
partner, and Jack Lemmon gives one of his 
finest efforts ever as Harry Stoner. Stoner 
is a man who is lost in the pressures of 
current society. He must maintain his 
house in Beverly Hills. He must drive a 
certain car, he must do this and that. Most 
of all he must maintain an image. Stoner 
however is trapped inside a mind that 
works on 1950s principles, and he cant 
conceive of his having reached his present 
situation. He blames society for changing 
rather than changing with society. Stoner 
wants to return to the security of the past 
where he could understand the world 
around him. To this end, Jack Lemmon is 
creditable, however Stoner is too naive to 
be real and the fault here lies with the 
script rather than Lemmon. It is difficult 
to imagine anyone so advanced in social 
status being so uncomprehending of events 
around him. At least it was for me and 
presumably for my two friends. Perhaps 
though since Stoner was believed by the 
older generation in the audience, Stoner is 
more real than I can accept. Possibly the 
acception of Stoner by people over forty is 
the point that Save the Tiger makes, that 
my world is alien to an older generation. I 
dont know.
Wanted:
Artists & Craftsmen
To Display and Sell Your Work
At
The Arts & Crafts Festival 
At Spring Carnival
April 13 & 14 - Skibo Lobby 
12 - 5:30 p.m.
YOU KEEP ALL PROFITS
If interested, CGNancy 422 8773
(No later that flarch 23)

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
THE TARTANTuesday, March 13, 1973Page 21
EDITORIAL
The NIT has got to be putting us on!
Fairfield (16-8)?
Manhattan (15-9)?
Rutgers (15-10)?
Notre Dame (14-11)?
Where the hell is Duquesne?
Theyve got a 16-7 record. They only lost one home game, and that to a super 
team. They have one of the country's finest coaches in Red Manning, as he proved 
beyond contention last year. And they have written a basketball history' as illustrious as 
anyone in the East.
Three of the above-mentioned colleges are obviously chosen as home teams. The 
other was selected on the basis of past football (thats right- F-O-O-T-B- A-L-L) glories. 
Worse yet, the Hells Angels of the hardcourt, Musselmans Marauders, will show up 
(with last years NCAA boxing champs, come out of retirement) if they are nosed out 
of the Big Ten Title.
It was the same last year. The Iron Dukes weren't sought. St. Johns had a 
mediocre record, and they almost swept the tourney. Its likely theyd have bowed out 
first round on another court. Lafayette (anyone know where that is?) was still another 
outstanding choice. And so, a 20-5 record sat by the telephone.
Pretty soon the NIT will resemble the football bowl games (4-5 vs. 5-5-1 or 
thereabouts). If they worried more about inviting the best teams and not the biggest 
drawing-cards, they might become a classy tournament (all theyd have to do is change 
locations).
Jeff R. Englund
Something lo Push 
Babies Around in?
Big Event Coming 
in I.M. Night
On Friday, March 16, the Intramural 
Departments twenty-fifth annual l.M. 
Night will be held at Skibo Gym here at 
C-MU.
The activities will begin at 7:00 p.m. 
with the Intermediate League Basketball 
Championship game. At 8:00, trophies will
* be presented to the Intramural champions 
of the 30 various I.M. sports held this year, 
and at 8:30, the Championship Basketball 
game for the Major Leagues will start.
All trophy winners, i.e. all captains of 
championship teams in any I.M. sports are
I requested to come with their teams at 8:00 
to pick up their trophies. Presentations will 
be supervised by the Commissioner of the
* I.M. Board Pete Hoysan of Sigma Nu, and 
the Secretary, Ralph Hershberger of Beta 
Theta Pi. Members of A Phi 0 will be 
selling refreshments.
The Intermediate League Championship 
game will be between two of the four
* teams who won last week in the quarter-* 
finals; the Players, a Drama Department 
team, the Rangatangs and the Polish
* Patriots, two uorm teams, and Phi Kappa
Theta.
The Major League Final will be of 
special interest this year for several reasons. 
Of the six teams fighting for a spot in this 
game: Salt and Pepper, Radics Raiders, 
Wild Bunch, Black Magic, GSIA, and 
Scrow, all but two were eliminated by last 
night. We will probably see Salt and Pepper 
going at it again in a rematch of the game 
played earlier in the year which the Raiders 
won en route to a perfect season. If so, Jeff 
Hollis, who missed the first game between 
the two clubs, will be playing this time, 
trying to bring yet another basketball 
championship to Salt and Pepper in what 
may be their last game together as a team. 
In spite of Salt and Peppers impressive 
line-up of ringers, though, the Raiders 
speed and sharp teamwork make them a 
favorite to take it all. And, if both these 
teams dont make the Finals, look for an 
upset by Scrow or the Wild Bunch.
Admission is free with an I D., so come 
early and get good seats for apme great 
basketball action. J
by Mike Stevens
Buggy! That word has a meaning unique 
to the Carnegie-Mellon campus. Buggy. For 
the devotees, the builders, the pushers, it 
means hundreds of man-hours of planning, 
designing, testing and working out to enter 
a two and one half minute race that 
happens only once a year. On Friday, April 
13, at 9 a.m. 23 buggies in 8 heats will 
compete for six places in the finals. The 
top three times on Friday will compete for 
the sweepstakes championship on 
Saturday, April 14. The next three fastest 
times on Friday will compete in a 
consolation heat on Saturday. Two and 
one half minutes to bring home a winner.
But the buggy cant go anywhere 
without the pushers. Five men (or women, 
as is sometimes the case) who have run 
many milesup steep hills, running sprints, 
training to propel a one man buggy over a 
certain distance in the least amount of 
time. The hill one man must be both very 
strong and fast. From the bottom of Tech 
Street in front of the Gym, 80 yards to the 
GSIA steps, is a long, hard grind. It is 
perhaps the most difficult hill, the most 
exhausting. At the push-off to the hill two 
man, the hill one man is more dead than 
alive. But the race is only about 20 seconds 
old. The hill two man need not be as strong 
as the hill one man, but he must be faster. 
As he pushes the buggy up over the crest of 
Tech Street, and the buggy begins 
accelerating down free roll, the hill two 
man must accelerate quickly and give a 
strong shove-off. This is extremely im
portant as the buggies maneuver for 
position down free roll. Free roll. Through
Schenley Park, past the Phipps Conserva
tory (on the outside of the monument), 
through the turn at the point of Flagstaff
Hill. The buggy is now moving at 45-55 
m.p.h. and for the driver, its all pure guts 
that makes that turn.
At the completion of free roll, the hill 
three pusher, a sprinter, picks up the 
decelerating buggy and starts it moving up 
the back hills. The hill three pusher 
begins in the general vicinity of Scaife Hall. 
His exact starting spot is determined by 
many practice runs. Too far down towards 
the turn and hell have to play catch 
the speeding buggy, wasting precious 
seconds. Too far up the hill towards Porter 
Hall and hell have to run back and catch 
the buggy. Once hes picked up the 
buggy, hes off to the Porter Hall side exit. 
At the shove off here, the hill four man
begins his long' climb to the Baker Hall 
parking lot. Stamina and a long stride are 
the marks of a good hill four man. When he 
shoves off, the hill five man has 180 yards 
of dead sprint ahead, hampered by the 
vehicle he is pushing. From the parking lot 
to the finish line at the end of Frew Street, 
speed is of the essencethe fastest man 
takes it all.
The most important change in buggy 
design over the past three years has been 
the installment of strict safety rules for all 
entries. Each buggy must have crash bars in 
front, safety harnesses for the driver, lights 
for night pushing, and brakes which will 
stop it in 40 feet from 15 miles per hour. 
Each buggy must pass a safety inspection 
before it is allowed to practice, and spot 
checks by Safety Director Tom Wood 
(PKA) make sure the buggies stay safe. 
Last year Frew Street was paved. This year 
petitions are being circulating asking the 
city to pave Tech Street, as a rough, 
potholed road is perhaps the greatest 
detriment to a safe race.
The Sweepstakes also feature a design 
competition. A well-designed, beautifully 
executed buggy is a joy to behold. Last 
years design winner, PKTs Streak was, 
in my opinion, one of the most beautifully 
designed buggies ever built. From the flaw
less finish to the gleaming chrome axle 
assemblies, it was a masterpiece of 
craftsmanship. Up until last year BTPs 
OO has won design for ten years in a 
row, a tribute to excellent foresight and 
planning.
This years entries into the sweepstakes 
include BTP. ATO, SAE, PKA, PKT, TDP, 
DTD, SN, KS, CIA, The Fringe and the 
dorms. The commuters are entering a 
buggy for the first time and preliminary 
reports are that they have built a very 
competitive vehicle. Two bikes are entered, 
TDP and SAE, as well as AKS girls team, 
and two alumni tearps from PKT and PKA.
Sweepstakes Chairman for 73 is Don 
Dietrich, 5th year student in GSIA from 
PKT. Don was safety chairman last year 
and is taking every possible measure to 
have a safe, exciting and fast Sweepstakes 
this year.
Design Chairman Bob Zurawin is 
expecting several new buggies this year, 
including a new SAE buggy and the new 
Commuter Club buggy.
Buggy. Ask someone from another 
campus what that word means.
Something to push babies around in. 
Theyve missed quite a lot.
PeonTone" houCi:/-
T H JHmi{ saT 
(7 M0N
& CiCSp WtF.
OP YfllDEdtoESS
CABie Pi.
SELL FINEST flfliKPACi ifj GEAfL . Also 
A VB so/vtf O&D /r*> 
kt 7 headed poncho
MILL EN FA&iC$
OPeiJ bySte MCNip&t 
2/-222Z

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22THE TARTAN-Tuesday, Marcb 13, 1973
Young Man's Fancy Turns 
Not to Spring Sports
by Glenn Campbell
Spring is traditionally a time when 
college sports are in the doldrums. As 
winter fades away and spring arrives, stu
dents thoughts begin to wander. They 
think of summer, vacations, and fun, 
anything but school. It is in this 
atmosphere that spring sports are played, 
when students would rather be outside, 
playing themselves, rather than watching 
others.
Basketball and hockey are winter sports, 
played indoors, when students dont mind 
being spectators. Football, always the most 
popular sport, is usually played in beautiful 
weather. The game is secondary to the fun 
that can be had in the stands, being with 
friends and a bottle of wine. I mean, what 
better way to spend an autumn afternoon?
Because of the time when theyre 
played and general student apathy, spring 
sports like tennis, track, and golf are 
virtually ignored. While these sports arent 
exactly the most popular spectator sports, 
they should be given more publicity than 
they receive.
The demise of college baseball at many 
schools is a case in point. Of course, 
baseball is a very popular sport, but 
because it cant be played until April and 
playing fields arent readily available,
college baseball has a virtually impossible 
job of attracting support and attention:
One major drawback these sports have is 
theyre basically individual sports. To 
obtain more coverage your team must have 
a star. After all, how many people can 
name a teammate of Mark Spitz while he 
was at Indiana University? Indiana had a 
truly fine team, but because of swimmings 
individualistic nature, a single athlete can 
make a program. For a sport like track, 
tennis, or golf to receive notoriety, a team 
needs a player with a big name-a Stan 
Smith in tennis or a Marty Liquori in track.
This isnt as farfetched as it sounds. 
Fine athletes have competed for schools 
with similar academic regulations to C-MU. 
But the general attitude on campus seems 
to be that sports arent really that 
necessary. Dr. Cyert insinuated recently 
that if the basketball team remains a loser, 
it will be eliminated because any part of 
the university that isnt a success isnt 
worthwhile. Its exactly this attitude that 
keeps quality athletes away.
C-MU isnt exactly the UCLA of the 
East or even the Cal Tech of the East. But 
Cal Tech has fielded respectable teams in 
many sports while still retaining its 
academic integrity, and there is no reason 
that C-MU cant do the same.
make
A Qualified Person
The Next
PRESIDENT Of Your 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
Vote For
Zany a llntond
Shes The One 
-Student Senate Representative (WDC) 6 Semesters...
--Chairwoman Of SC finance Committee 4 Semesters
Representative Of Board Of Trustees Budget & Finance Committee
Elections March 14th & 15th--Wed., Thurs.
The Activities Board Presents:
WITCHCRAFT & OCCULT FESTIVAL
March 16 7 & 9:30 DH 2210
THE DEVILS  A true story of political and 
religious upheaval in France in 1634, which 
leads a priest to be unjustly accused of sorcery 
by a group of sexually obsessed nuns led by 
Mother superior (Vanessa Redgrave)
March 17 7 & 9:30 PH 100
MEPHISTO WALTZ  A neglected wife wor
ries about her husband as he becomes an incenturous devil worshipper with extraordinary 
powers.
March 18 7 & 9:30 PH 100
WITCHCRAFT THROUGH THE AGES - Ben
jamin Christensen's film about witchcraft in the 
1920's.
50C with AB Card
Festival Tickets for the Weekend $1.00 with AB Card
Hockey Team 
in Playoffs
by Dave Girdany
On Sunday night, March 4, in the Al
pine Arena, the C-MU hockey team was 
defeated by the Pitt Panthers and the 
league standings by a score of 2-2. Because 
they lost to Indiana the week before, the 
Tartans had to defeat the Panthers in order 
to finish first in their division. A tie was as 
good as a loss. Although in second place, 
C-MU still makes the league play-offs. The 
Tartans must face Indiana, a team they 
have not beaten in two games this season. 
The winner of this match will face the 
winner of the upcoming play-off series, 
between Pitt and St. Vincent. The victor in 
that final series will be league champion.
Although they avoided it in the first 
two Pitt games, the Tartans did not escape 
their season-long first period jinx in the last 
game. They fell two goals behind in the 
first period after Phil Gefsky beat Jeff Hart 
on a slap shot and, while a man short, 
Denny Browne put in his own rebound on 
a breakaway. C-MU scored immediately 
after Brownes goal on the power play to 
cut the deficit in half. Mike Kenworthy 
blasted the puck from the left point into 
the net past Pitt goalie Mark Lieberman. 
The Tartans left the ice with the score Pitt
2, C-MU 1.
The two teams skated to a standstill in 
the second period as neither team had an 
excellent chance to score, except when the 
Tartans began the period with a two man 
advantage. Although keeping the pressure 
on Lieberman, C-MU was unable to score 
for the 1 minute and 13 seconds of this 
advantage. However, credit must be given
to Pitt for stopping the Tartans. The period 
was scoreless.
Just after the third period began, the 
Tartans again had a two man advantage for 
about a minute. Again they failed. This 
time, however, they kept the pressure on 
Pitt, as the puck was often in the Pitt zone. 
Finally, with about 5 minutes remaining in 
the game, Jim Powers scored during a 
scramble in front of the Pitt net. Knowing 
they needed one more goal, the Tartans 
continued to control play, trying to take 
first place from the Panthers. Although 
aided by a Pitt goal which was nullified 
because of an offside pass, C-MU was 
unable to score again and thus the game 
ended tied at two. One encouraging result 
of the game, however; in the three games 
this season, Pitt has been unable to beat 
C-MU. If the Tartans make it past Indiana, 
this writer, at least will favor them for the 
championship. When C-MU meets Pitt for 
the league championship, the Tartans will 
appreciate support from their fans; the one 
WINNING winter sport team from your 
school deserves your support. So although 
C-MU did not capitalize on their two man 
advantages and therefore failed to beat 
Pitt, this writer thinks that the number one 
team from your school will be crowned 
league champions.
Scoring Summary
Period 1:1) PittGrefsky (D. Browne), 2) 
PittD. Browne (unassisted), 3) C-MU 
Ken worthy (Eastman)
Period 2: No scoring
Period 3: 4) C-MU-Powers (Eastman)
Ralph Domenick 
All-PAC
The Tartans star freshman forward, 
Ralph Domenick, has been named an 
honorable mention in the all-league 
balloting by PAC basketball coaches. 
Ralphs consistent high scoring and 
aggressive play was one of the few bright 
spots in the Tartans dissappointing 1-22 
season.
League-leading scorer John Ambrosic of 
John Carroll was named captain of the first 
team, which also included Kevin Derrick 
and Mark Thorpe of Hiram, Mark Fleischer 
; of# Thiel, ajid Cases Russ# Pjake. TJi^% 
second squad consisted of Tom Turkaly of 
W&J, Larry McCall of Hiram, Dave Hosea
of John Carroll, Alleghenys Joe Knap, and 
CWRUs Don Goodfellow. Receiving 
honorable mention were Randy Fox of 
Bethany (who set the PAC field goal 
percentage mark at .631), Stan Rubin, Case 
Western, Terry Quinn, Thiel; Bill Hartman, 
W&J; Mike Malone, Allegheny; Van Glen 
Neal, Hiram; and Gary Anguilano of John 
Carroll.
Hirams William Hollinger was named 
PAC Coach of the Year. He led the Terriers 
to a 19-3 record, the conference title, and a 
spot u Wie JSCAA olte Di^iyon 
Tournament.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 13, 1973-Page 23
Swim to Fight Cancer
Four city pools including those at 
Duquesne and Carnegie-Mellon Uni
versities, the University of Pittsburgh, and 
Chatham Center Health Club will make 
their facilities available to swimmers part
icipating in the first annual Swim-A-Thon 
Laps for Lives sponsored by the 
American Cancer Societys Allegheny 
County Unit March 12 through 17.
At Duquesne University Col. William 
White will coordinate the event. For 
information including pool hours contact 
Col. White at 434-6000 or 434-6696.
Raymond E. Haynes, Athletic Director, 
will supervise the event at C-MU and has 
indicated that the pool will be open to 
participants from 6 to 9 p.m. Monday 
through Fflday, and from 2 to 5 p.m. 
Saturday. Mr. Haynes can be reached at 
621-2600.
Bradshaw (683-2800) will conduct the 
event there.
Nathan H. Kaufmann, Director of the 
Health Club, will direct the Swim-A-Thon 
at Chatham Center which will be daily 
from 11 a.m. to 9 p.m. For additional 
details call Mr. Kaufmann at 391-500.
Prior to the Swim-A-Thon participants 
will collect the names of sponsors who 
pledge to donate a specified amount to the 
Society for each pool lap completed.
Then during the week of March 12 these 
swimmers will go to the nearest pool to 
swim hoping to complete the maximum 
(40) laps. They will report the recorded 
laps to their sponsors and ask for the 
pledged contribution.
County awards will be given to the three 
top pledge-getters, the three top moneyearners, the youngest and oldest swimmers
The University of Pittsburghs Richard and swimmer completing the most laps.I.M. Playoffs in Full Stride
by Dave List
/ The Intermediate and Minor Leagues 
have both completed their quarter-final 
and semi-final games. Upsets have so far 
proven to be the rule rather than the 
exception.
The two suprise teams in the Inter
mediate Leagues are the Rangatangs and 
PKT A. These teams finished in second 
place in the Warriors and Bullets Division, 
respectively. Neither team was expected by 
most people to be a playoff threat.
In the Western Division, the Rangatangs 
began their rise with a convincing upset 
victory over the Purple Gnurples, the first 
place team of the Lakers section. Mean
while, the Players were overrunning the 
Morewood Gups, who had finished ahead 
of the Rangatangs during regular season 
play.
Two nights later, the Rangatangs and 
the Players faced each other in the 
semi-finals. Earlier in the season, these two 
teams had met with the Players winning 
that game. However, the Rangatangs came 
out strong and were able to outplay the 
Players throughout the game.
In the Central Division, it was quite the 
same story with PKT A. They began 
their post-season play with a surprise
victory over PKA A. Now they would 
have to play the first place team from their 
division, the Polish Patriots. The Patriots 
had just defeated Black Magic Bloods and 
were now favored to win their division. 
However, PKT A again rose to the 
occasion and erased the Patriots.
Therefore, the Rangatangs and PKT 
A will go at it this Friday night 
(Intramural Night) in the finals. Both 
teams have proven themselves worthy of 
the championship. Come on over and see 
it. It should be a great game.
In the Minor Leagues, the two teams 
that will compete for the title will be the 
PKT Rhinos and Sloof. Both of these 
teams are from the Bucks Section. The 
PKT Rhinos reached the finals by 
previously defeating Happy Jacks. Sloof 
upset Skid Row to receive their title berth.
This week the Major Leagues playoff 
game will be played. At 7:00 Wednesday 
night, Salt & Pepper will play the winner of 
the Black Magics and Scrow game. At 8:00, 
Radios Raiders will try to hold on to their 
perfect season as they play the winner of 
the Wild Bunch and GSIA game. At 7:00 
on Friday night, the winners of these two 
games will compete for the title. If you 
can, come on over and see intramural 
basketball at its very best.
4 *c&e- '
Take it from one with a man-sized 
yen. men. When a *Big Man on Campus 
gets a big thirst, it takes a big drink to 
satiate it. And nothing. I repeat nothing, 
titillates the tonsils and taunts a thirst 
like Akad^ma Red. Fred.
Akadama RedThe toast of the campus.
imported by Suntory international. Los Angeles. Calif
Il III
.I l!s; W
11 111 II
High-scoring Cindy Whitmore at the line.
It s Good to Be Early, 
But A Whole Day/
by Sy belle Mryczko
It was one of those days. On 
Wednesday, February 7, the Womens 
Basketball Team concluded a practice and 
were looking forward to Thursday 
evenings confrontation with Indiana 
University of Pennsylvania. Half the team 
left for dinner, but the rest remained as 
they were participating in a touch football 
game between the Dawgs and the 
Witcheers. During the first half, in walked 
Indiana, one day early and off went the 
coach in a mad quest to reach the rest of 
the team by phone.
As the first quarter opened the team's 
top scorer, Cindy Whitmore, and two 
others were yet to be found; but never
theless, at approximately 7:30 a very 
exhausted Tech team took the floor. Very 
gamely C-MU battled IUP, capturing the 
lead at one point. But Indiana had a 
phenomenally hot hand and was up 22-12 
by the second quarter. IUP, continually 
switching from zone to man-to-man 
defense, pulled further ahead by halftime, 
48-16.
The second half saw C-MU scoring
evenly in both quarters but was not able to 
make up the deficit, and suffered a 
crunching defeat, 85-28. It was quite a 
comical, certainly unusual way for the 
season to end. Scoring: C. Whitmore, 8; E. 
Zimmerman, 8; Marty Lisberger, 8; P. 
Salapow, 2; S. Mryczko, 2.
In the first article I predicted a 7-3 
record, adding the game with PSUNK, that 
would have been 8-3. In actuality , the 
C-MU Womens Basketball Team finished 
6-5. Once again I would like to recognize 
and commend the efforts of the team: Elly 
Zimmerman (center); Cindy Whitmore 
(forward); Marty Lisberger (forward); Fran 
Pauley (guard); Pat Salapow (guard); Sam 
Mryczko (guard, forward, center and 
captain); Ruthie Potts (guard, forward, 
center); Pat Berry (forward, guard); Linda 
Ackerman (forward guard); Bard Toole 
(guard); and Sandy La Pietra (guard). To 
the graduating senior, Captain Mryczko, 
luck is wished and to the rest of the 
team-see. you on the court next year. 
Finally, but not inconsequentially, my and 
the teams special thanks and gratitude to 
our long suffering coach, who can make a 
basketball player out of anything, Ms. A. 
Jane Fisk. Good luck next year!
aH
Elly Zimmerman skys against Indiana.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 24-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 13, 1973
UP YOUR IMAGE
A Program on the Problems and Potential of Women in Contemporary Society
Thursday, March 15 .. Carnegie-Mellon University, Skibo, 10:30 a.m.9:00 p.m.
Open to women and men
Film Schedule
10:30 - 1:00 pm 
Wherrett Room, Skibo 
Breakfast Dance 
Do Blondes Have More Fun?
Windy Day
The Woman's Film
Anything You Want To Be
Genesis 3 : 16
Schmeerguntz
British Woman's Film
Sweet Bananas
6:30 - 9:00 pm
Wherrett Room, Skibo
Selections From Above Listing plus
Growing Up Female
50 Best Advertisements of '68 -'69
50 Best Advertisements of '70 -'71
50 Best Advertisements of '72 -'73
Speaker's Schedule
1:00 - 1:45 pm 
Wherrett Room
The Medium is the Message: But How 
is the Message Created?
Linda Goldstein
Political Reporter, Newsroom
WQED, Public Broadcasting System
4:00 - 5:00 pm 
Wherrett Room, Skibo
Psychiatry of Women: Madness and Normalcy 
Dr. Pauline Bart 
Department of Psychiatry 
University of Illinois, Medical Center 
Chicago, Illinois
Workshop Schedule
To Create a Dialogue Between Women 
and Men About the Problems and 
Potential in Specific Areas of Contemporary 
Life
2:00 - 2:50 pm
Woman: A New Biological Perspective 
Wherrett Room
Marilyn Goldsmith, Dept, of Biology,
University of Pittsburgh
Life Styles - An Open Classroom Situation
Room 45, Skibo
Living Together - Unmarried
Communal Living
Gay Life Styles
Education - The Molding Process 
Room 56, Skibo
Helene Borke, CMU, Assistant Professor 
Child Development and Psychology 
Joan Burstyn, CMU, Director, Teacher Education, 
Assistant Professor of Psychology
3:00 - 3:50 pm
Legal Rights for Women 
Room 45, Skibo
Ruth Beach, CMU, Director Affirmative Action Office 
Thomas Kerr, CMU, Head AMS, Lecturer I.A. and Law 
President ACLU of Pennsylvania
How to Beat the System - Career Opportunities 
Room 39, Skibo
Irene Pasinsky, President, Irene Pasinsky Assoc., 
Industrial Designers
Jane Cookson, Vice President, C. S. McKee Co., 
Stockbrokers;
Formerly a Scientist with Gulf Oil Corporation 
Shirley Angrist, Associate Professor, SUPA, CMU
Etcetera:
Week of March 10 
Exhibit, Skibo Lobby
Wednesday, March 14
Film: Growing Up Female
Breed Hall, 1:30 pm
in conjunction with Mary Gordon
History Department
open to Campus Community
Thursday, March 15 
Skibo Lobby
posters, buttons, books on sale, 
free literature available
Sponsors of Up Your Image
Programming Fund, Student Activities Office
Special Supporters
Women's Dormitory Council
YWCA of CMU
program subject to change 
for further information contact 
Student Activities, Skibo 103 
extension 214
