fil tartan
October 21, 1975 Volume 76 Number 7
this week
Trustees and th University . . page 3 
Change in Grading System? . . page 6 
Center circle makes it big . . page 10
Concert Drops $4,000
"Reflections", the 
throngs of adoring 
more popular than 
tunnels.
duct work like sculpture near CFA has cracked from the internal strain caused by 
beholders. Not surprisingly, the inside of the sculpture has turned out to be even 
the outside, as the art work has quickly become a close competitor of the steam
An estimated loss of almost $4,000 
from the Ramsey Lewis Concert marks 
another in a string of money losing con
certs sponsored by the Activities Board 
Patti Aerni,chairperson of AB explained 
that the loss was a result of too much 
competition from other shows at the same 
time and too little time to adequately 
publicize the event. Adding to problem was 
the forced use of the gymnasium because 
Alumni were using the Ballroom at Home
coming.
According to Aerni, the gymnasium 
has a higher overhead. Locating the concert 
in the Ballroom would have allowed AB to 
reduce its losses.
Chick Monheim, chairman of the AB 
Concert Committee could not be reached 
for comment in time for publication.
Over the last three years AB has lost 
money on many of the concerts they have 
sponsored. In the spring of 1973 AB lost
Photo bv Paul WilliamsSenate Hit by Attrition
by Paul Smith
in the past two weeks Student Senate, 
the governmental force on campus for the 
students, has lost six senators. Of that 
number two were committee chairmen. 
The reasons for their resignations were 
varied, however the feelings of those who 
have left, were best expressed by Tom 
Huffsmith, former Chairman of the In
formation Committee, in a speech given 
before Senate on Wednsday October 15:
Today, I am formally announcing 
my resignation from Student Senate. I 
have based my decision to resign, on
the fact that Senate is taking up too 
much unnecessary time of my week, 
during which I could be doing more 
constructive things. This un
necessary time, I feel, is generated by a 
a general air of uncooperativeness be
tween Senators and the Senate Com
mittees. I feel that the Senate has 
great potential for doing unsurpassed 
things on this campus for the student 
body, but these goals can only be ac
complished when every member learns 
to organize their ideas into, plans, and 
communicate them with other memFrats Seek Recognition
by Debbie Rosenkrantz
Two new fraternities have asked for re
cognition from CMU Student Senate and 
the Unified Fraternal Organization. Dean 
Swank, Dean of Student Affairs, has asked 
the student organizations to postpone their 
decisions until the Board of Trustees has 
made a policy decision. Dean Swank said, 
Obviously some need (of students) is not 
being met if students are joining non-uni
versity associated groups. These people, 
primarily black students, are forming frats 
for social purposes. If the fraternity exists 
without being in the UFO it loses out on 
all functions that are sponsored by the 
university.
In the past, the University has had a 
policy of allowing only a limited number 
of fraternities to exist at one time. This 
rule dates back to the depression when 
many frats went bankrupt and lost their 
houses. The University bought the houses 
and used them as campus housing. This 
policy, which has been in effect since the 
thirties, is that new fraternities cant be 
added when there is some doubt about the 
stability of existing frats.
Thursday, the Board of Trustees will 
meet to discuss the new policy.
Mike Moore, spokesman for the CMU
-ERRATUMDue to a printing error, the following 
paragraph was omitted from the article 
titled CMU Charged with Sex Discrimin
ation," which appeared in the TARTAN 
of October 14:
John E. Hackett, legal counsel for 
Carnegie-Mellon University, issued the 
following statement: Dr. Peggy R. Sanday 
and Patricia Carlson have filed a legal 
action in the Federal District Court alleging 
that the University had discriminated in 
employment on the basis of sex as defined 
under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act. 
CMU has filed an answer with the court 
denying the allegations and is awaiting 
further action on this matter by the federal 
district court.
pt f 2
Photo by Kathi Leicther 
"Obviously some need is not being met."
members ot the Omicron chapter of 
A Phi A said that recognition will open 
the road for campus involvement at CMU. 
There are eight members of this group en
rolled in CMU out of the fifty member 
chapter. The chapter is headed at Pitt. 
There are also members at Duquesne .
A Phi A is a service and social organiza$2,200 when the Byrds folded one week 
before their scheduled appearence at CMU. 
That same spring AB ; almost lost over 
$3,000 when a group called Focus failed
bers in a cooperative and compromising 
fashion. I am more than willing to help 
you (Senate) work toward these 
objectives, but not at this time. I have 
already fallen too far behind in my 
studies, and cannot devote any more 
time to Senate until my academic per
formance is brought back to my 
standards. I would like to leave the 
Senate with the following quote in 
the hopes that it will motivate them to 
greater efficiency, and generate some 
thought as to how to achieve them. 
Do not fear going fonvard slowly, 
Fear only to stand still.
Huffsmith was interviewed after he 
resigned, and he had the following add
itional comments to make. The leadership 
from Doug Konopka and Larry Kurzweil 
is very strong and the problem of Senate 
does not lie with them. If there is a villain 
in all of this, it seems to me that it lies on 
the Committee level, they are not doing 
the job that they should be. So many 
minor things which should be handled on 
the Committee level, such as whether to 
charge thirty of thirty-five dollars for the 
cost to enter one buggy in Sweepstakes 
should not require the approval of the 
Senate when they have already given the 
decision making power to that Committee. 
It seems that when we give the support to 
some Committee we should not then take 
it away, 'whenever a decision is to be 
made, but rather we should let them run 
the things on their own.
STUDENT SENATE ELECTIONS
Student Senate elections will be held 
the 13th and 14th of November 1975. In 
order to run for a seat in the Student Sen
ate, all one has to do is 1) pick up a peti
tion at the Skibo Information desk. 2) have 
it signed by 25 members of his constituen
cy who have not signed any other petition 
in that constituency, and 3) return it to the 
Rules Committee Chairperson, Skibo 103 
anytime between October 16 and Octobei 
30.
The constituencies and the number of 
available seats are as follows:
AMS -0 H&SS-5
CFA -8 MIS -3
CIT - 8 SUPA - 1
GSIA-I
AB Chairperson Patti Aerni photo by Ellen Eddy
to show -for their performance. However 
rescheduling of the same group allowed AB 
to recover their loss. According to one 
member of the Concert Committee, almost 
$l,000was lost last spring from the Tracey 
Nelson Concert.
According to Aerni having an outside 
promoter handle concerts is preferable to 
AB sponsoring them since the promoter 
takes whatever losses or profits result, with 
CMU providing only the location.
EPFL Exchange
Engineering students are being offered 
an unique opportunity to study abroad 
through the Undergraduate Exchange Pro
gram between Carnegie-Mellon University 
and Ecole Polytechnique Federale de Laus
anne. Students apply to spend there junior 
year studying at one of the top engineering 
schools in Switzerland.
The program offers tremendous lever
age for international employment, states 
CMUs director of the program, Professor 
C.L. Bauer.
LEcole Polytechnique Federale de La
usanne (EPFL) is a college of engineering 
and applied science, run by the Swiss gov
ernment. Programs offered by EPFL close
ly resemble those offered by CIT here at 
CMU. As part of a reciprocal exchange 
program, an equal number of students 
from CMU and EPFL will study at the 
other school.
Both freshmen and sophomores are eli
gible to apply in this, the first year of the 
program. In the future applications must 
be made in the freshman year. December 
31 is the deadline for applications, with the 
selected participants to be announced at 
the end of March. Applications and fur
ther information about the program can be 
obtained from Professor C.L. Bauer, Sci
ence Hall 4323, extension 358.
Upon selection for the program, parti
cipants will meet with their academic ad
visors to plan the students complete 
course of study as an undergraduate. Due 
to differences in the courses offeree^ 
some degree requirements may be re
laxed. In the sophomore year, preparation 
is made for the year to be spent at EPFL, 
probably including taking two semesters of 
continued on page b

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2THE TARTAN-October 21, 1975
editors note
Shrink or Perish
Survival of this university in the future will be determined by 
decisions on scale being made now. Faced with intense competition 
from state subsidized universities and a decreasing college age popula
tion, CMU must correctly determine what its size should be or it will 
be engulfed by the same threat of extinction already ravaging so many 
private institutions which have nothihg to offer over public education.
Only by offering a higher quality education can CMU compete 
with government supported schools. If the private university has 
nothing to offer over the state school then certainly no one will choose 
to attend the private university at double the cost. The underlying 
criterion for all decisions on scale must be maximization of the quality 
of education offered.
Maximizing quality does not warrant attempting to determine 
an optimal permanent size which would remain unchanging over 
all time. The issues involved are to complex to allow determination of 
a long range policy which would be adequate for more than the next 
ten or twenty years. The complexity of the question can however be 
reduced by simplifying the issues involved into three parameters: 
1) the supply of college aged students, 2) physical plant, the resources 
of the university, and 3) income, which is mainly comprised of revenue 
from tuition and the endowment.
The last two of these parameters can be controlled more or less. 
New buildings can always be built if needed and alternative uses can 
always be found for under utilized areas. Income is controlled by ad
justment of tuition rates and the administration has already shown it
self to be very good at obtaining substantial donations to the endow
ment. But there is little that can be done about the first parameter, the 
supply of college age students. All that can be done today is to esti
mate what the supply will be for the next eighteen years. Being the one 
parameter which cannot be controlled, the supply becomes the factor 
which determines what the choice of the other two parameters must be.
What is known today about the supprly of college students expect
ed in the future and about CMUs own enrollment trends indicate that 
the university must decrease in size to avoid continuing the decline in 
quality which is now occurring. In H&SS average 5/1T scores have de
creased by almost WO points over the last five years; in CIT and MIS 
the average scores have decreased by almost 50 points over the same 
time period. Additionally, in H&SS 90%, and in CIT and MIS 80% of 
all applicants are accepted. Dramatic drops in the college age popula
tion can already be foreseen for the 1980s. An attempt to increase 
the enrollment or even to maintain the present size would bring CMU 
dangerously dose to the point of accepting 100% of all applicants.
When CMU forfeits its ability to select the quality of its students, 
then the university becomes indistinguishable from the state university 
which must by law accept every student who applies. The brighter 
student will not come to CMU, choosing to go to either the state school 
where she will have her education hindered by slower students at half 
the price, or to a private university which only admits other bright stu
dents. Next to the quality of the faculty, the quality of the students is 
probably the most important criterion for evaluting the universitys 
overall quality. It is the students which limit the difficulty and quanti
ty of the course work.
Dr. Cyert has indicated several objections to a reduction in size. He 
argues that reducing the size of the faculty is a painful process which 
damages moral and may cause the best faculty members to depart 
for other institutions. But this is exactly the policy the present admin
istration and its predecessor have followed for the last five years. Cal 
Tech has pursued this policy even further, hence the name Cal Tech 
Strategy for this type of policy. At present there is no evidence that Cat 
Tech has suffered greatly from their implementation of this strategy 
and even Dr. Cyert admits that this strategy is one way of insuring that 
an university will be able to weather any storm.
Another argument presented in opposition to a contraction size is 
the under utilization of resources which could occurr. It should be re
membered however, that the prime concern of the university should be 
for education , not efficiency. As the course work becomes less rig
orous because of the admittance of less qualified students it will be 
cold comfort to know that all of CMUs resources are being utilized ef
ficiently.
The under utilization of resources argument also neglects the 
unproven Fifth Law of Thermodynamics. This observation of physical 
phenomena states that: "professors, graduate students and undergradu
ates tend to expand to fill all available space. 
To remain competitive with state supported universities, CMU 
must offer something they cant. The only thing which CMU possesses 
which the state schools cant is the ability to select the quality of its 
students. In the light of CMUs high admittance rate and the decreasing 
supply of students, it is obvious that increasing or even maintaining 
the present size of the university works against the one marketing 
advantage which the government allows the private university. Clearly 
CMU must shrink or perish.
Charles Mitch 
News Editor
letters
CFA LOCKUP 
A New, Old, Regulation
Editor:
In commenting on your edi
torial concerning the hours in 
the Fine Arts Building, I am 
reminded of the ephemeral rela
tionship of students to their 
schools where memory plays a 
minor role in realizing a present 
situation as a mere extension of 
a past one. Hence the reissue of 
an age-old regulation always 
sounds as an arbitrarily insti
tuted new pronouncement.
Since 1971, the hours in the 
Fine Arts Building have remain
ed unchanged: Monday through 
Saturday from 8:00 a.m. to 
Midnight and Sunday from 8:00 
a.m. to 10:00 p.m. This year the 
hours were extended on Sunday 
until Midnight. I was unable to 
locate the official announce
ments prior to 1971, however, 
from listening to storytellers 
who are also veteran faculty in 
CFA, I have gathered that the 
hours in CFA many years ago 
(probably in the early 60s) 
were Monday through Friday 
8:00 a.m. to Midnight, Saturday 
8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m., and 
Sunday the building was closed. 
The total hours per week were 
90 hours. If I compare this with
my recent note to students 
and faculty dated September 22, 
1975, I see that more hours 
were added; the total per week 
is now 112 hours. My note, 
however, states that Individual 
students may work beyond time 
limits stated above only with 
written permission signed by 
both the department head and 
the dean. The permit should 
be shown to Security on re
quest. Many students in coop
eration with their faculty are 
already making constructive use 
of this regulation.
During my archeological 
search, I came across a statement 
to faculty and students from 
my predecessor, Dean Norman 
Rice, dated March 20, 1968. 
In it he indicated that the rea
sons behind the hours as they 
were established are:
1. The dissatisfaction of 
faculty members whose students 
are absent, or groggy, because 
of all night sessions for another 
instructor, and
2. matters of safety and 
maintenance of the building, 
made difficult when students are 
working beyond normal hours.
I believe this statement to be 
reasonable. The acknowledgement 
of an eight hour period set 
aside for rest and presumably 
sleep ought not to be perceived 
as an anti-inspiration machine. 
Those of us who are engaged 
in the education and training 
of artisits ought to be aware
of the differences between the 
authentic creative process and a 
variety of cliches and poses. 
Puccinis La Boheme is only 
an opera; the life style it por
trays has been seriously contest
ed by artists since the 19th 
century.
STUDE NALDCA 
IODCY GWS
Personally Challenged
Editor:
I was bothered to such a 
great degree by the Editors note 
on less majors that I felt per
sonally challenged to reply to 
Gary Singers editorial.
Gary may be right that the 
Humanities Department is not 
on the same academic level as 
many of the other departments 
here at Carnegie Mellon* Still, 
Mr. Singers thinking is 
something out of 1984. I feel 
this way because Carnegie Mel
lon actually has a lot to offer to 
Humanities majors. The differ
ence between private universities 
and the state funded schools is 
unbelievable. At Mellon, a hu
manities major gets a chance to 
come to grips with problems just 
as the engineers do. Small classes 
(which are dissappearing) pro
vide students with such a greater 
incentive. Many of my state
continued on page 4
Volume 76tartan
October 14, 1975Number 6
Editor in Chief 
Gary Singer
Business ManageriTom Kirkland 
News Editor:Charles Mitch 
Entertainment EditorMark Chimsky 
Trapeze Editor:Greg McKenna 
Sports Editor: Elly Zimmerman 
Photography Editor: Elliot Popowitz
Staff Photographers: Jonathan Eiten, Tim Fabian, Rick Frantz, James Johnston, Courtney Larson, Gregg Lebovitz, Kathi Leichter, Dave Meeker, John Rose, Mark Segal, Fred Shamlian, Brian Smith, Jim Vlasic, Paul Williams
Copyrighted 1975 by the Carnegie Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit 
or withold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded by Student Government of Carne
gie Mellon University. Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; [4121 621-2600 ext, 656. 
Business Offices: Skibo 52, [4121 682-4557.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

---------------------------------------------------

news commenti
THE TARTAN-October 21.1975-Page 3
VIEW FROM WARNER HALL:
TRUSTEES, STUDENTS AND THE UNIVERSITY
The presence of large num
bers of trustees on the campus 
on October 20 and the inter
action between trustees, faculty, 
and students in the course of the 
day suggests that it might be use
ful to describe the relationship 
which has evolved at CarnegieMellon University between these 
important constituents of the 
University community.
In the early days of my asso
ciation with this institution the 
trustees were seldom known per
sonally by any member of the 
academic community,  their 
meetings were held off-campus, 
and the impact of those meet
ings was seldom felt directly 
within the campus community 
except as it resulted in the con
struction of additional facilities 
or the occasional announcement 
of a policy which changed a sig
nificant operation of the Univer
sity.
Early in his administration, 
Dr. John C. Warner, then Presi
dent of Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, felt that the instiIn these columns and else
where at CMU, a debate con
cerning the relevance of the 
humanities appears to be in pro
gress. A significant number ap
parently feel that it is a misdi
rection of resources. Consis
tent with this is the point of 
view that CMU provides an ec
lectic and highly professional 
education in a limited number of 
fields. We would describe this 
view of the university as the 
 training center view . Our pur
pose here is to present an alter
nate point of view on this mat
ter. The functions of a univer
sity are a proper subject for aca
demic discussion, and should not 
be left to administrative deci
sion, either by default or con
sent. The university exists as a 
focus of intellectual activity 
within a society - the keyword 
being intellectual - and a train
ing in intellectual dicipline for 
students. Obviously, then, 
the university must serve to cre
ate and foster those intellectual 
activities.
What, we may ask, is the stu
dent in turn, to expect form the 
university? The classical answer 
has been - a taste of an active in
tellectual atmosphere, a means 
for expanding her information 
base in a subject of special inter
est (possibly, professional), and 
an appreciation of the social, 
economic and cultural phenom
ena in her own society and other 
societies. A person graduating 
from an university should fit the 
description of a cultured per
son, in the best sense of the 
word.
What exactly is the relevance 
of a humanities program to a 
professional - whether in drama, 
cumputer science, or civil engi
neering. We must note here the
tution would benefit if the char
acter of the trustees could re
flect more broadly the wide 
national involvement of gradu
ates and friends of the institu
tion. To fulfill that purpose, 
with the encouragement of the 
Board of Trustees, he was instru
mental in the development of a 
charter change which expanded 
the Board of Trustees and pro
vided the opportunity to get lar
ger representation of alumni and 
of members of the broader na
tional community as well, bring
ing to the Board leaders from 
industry, charitable foundations, 
and the arts and sciences whose 
interests were not parochial and 
whose careers evidenced their 
strong capability to provide 
leadership and direction in the 
governance of this university. 
In casual conversation I have 
heard Dr. Warner suggest that 
this change in the character of 
the Board of Trustees was one of 
the most significant accomplish
ments of his administration.
During the decade of the 60s
growing need for the profession
als in our society to display 
some form of social conscious
ness. Professions do not exist in 
a vacuum and professionals
* should be as capable as intellec
tuals of actively considering the 
effect of their technology on so
ciety. The engineer of today 
performs different functions 
from the engineer of the nine
teenth century and, in addition, 
her activities affect a larger num
ber of people. It seems dubious, 
at best, that the product of an 
education of low humanistic 
content could contribute effec
tively to a society whose con
cerns are often not profession
al. We would contest, then, 
that an instution inculcating 
only qualities of rationality and 
analyticity can claim to train 
professionals capable of con
tributing to the cultural and 
moral concerns of a society.
It has been said that what is 
desired is merely a reduction in 
the emphasis on the Humanities. 
In real terms, this means reduc
ing the size of the department. 
Can a program of high quality 
exist under those conditions? 
Teachers of good quality are 
generally motivated in two ways 
when joining the faculty-they 
expect the possibility of fruit
ful and wide-ranging intellectual 
interaction with their peers, and 
they expect that their depart
ment has an equal status with 
other university departments. 
The first relates to the size of 
the faculty, whereas the second 
affects the calibre of students 
the teacher can expect to work 
with. The ability to grant de
grees is an example of a prized 
right of a department and often 
governs its prestige within the 
university. Both would be diminDr. Warner and subsequent ad
ministrators and members of the 
Board sought ways to insure that 
the Board could become more 
intimately acquainted with the 
campus and its students and fa
culties. The first step taken was 
to conduct Board meetings on 
campus instead of in locations 
remote from the campus. At the 
time, this was a major change in 
the practice of college Boards of 
Trustees and Carnegie-Mellon 
was among the leaders of institu
tions which sought this means of 
securing better knowledge of the 
university community among 
members of its Board. In addi
tion, the officers of the Board 
expanded the agenda for the 
meetings to include information 
sessions during which members 
could become more directly ac
quainted with the University. As 
members of the Board became 
more fully acquainted with the 
ongoing operation of the univer
sity, they expressed interest in 
finding ways to have more di
rect contact with faculty and
ished by the proposed reduc
tions in the Humanities program. 
A small program almost neces
sarily implies one of low quality 
-a sure method for developing 
contempt among and for its 
victims, the students.
A third aspect is worth 
considering-the phenomena of 
intellectual syngergy, and cross
fertilisation between disciplines. 
It is easy to overlook that most 
of our modern, rational, 
analytical, mathematical 
and scientific disciplines de
veloped from humanistic interests-fields like physics and 
chemistry no less than fields 
like economics, sociology, and 
psychology have emerged from 
what some would call the mo
rass of unreason-the humani
ties. The radical change which 
took place in those disciplines 
was the result of fruitful inter
changes between scientists and 
humanist philosophers. CMU 
with its fund of high-quality 
scientific and technological tal
ent, cannot afford to divorce 
itself from the possibilities in
herent in the continued exis
tence of a high quality human
ities department. In no sense, 
can this be viewed as a question 
of competition with other insti
tutions of learning, or otherwise. 
Rationality and analyticity are 
not the only means of achieving 
insight into human problems. 
The apparently non-rational processess involved in creative ex
pression and understanding have 
at least, relevance. It must be 
remembered that this limitation 
on the humanities is, in some 
sense, due to limitations in 
current scientific techniques, 
and not in the humanities them
selves.
continued on pacje 4
students; and in the late 60s 
the Trustee Committee on Stu
dent Affairs invited several mem
bers of the student body to at
tend its meetings, join in dis
cussions and participate in its 
voting on an experimental basis. 
At the end of the year the Com
mittee was so pleased with the 
result that it endorsed a request 
made by student government to 
extend a similar invitation for 
students to participate in meet
ings of other trustee committees 
and soon thereafter students 
were invited to attend the meet
ings of all of the major trustee 
committees.
About 1970 Student Senate 
requested that a student be given 
a seat on the Board of Trustees. 
Mr. Fred Foy, who was then 
Chairman of the Board, asked 
that the Trustee Committee on 
Student Affairs examine the re
quest carefully and invited offi
cers of student government to 
meet with the full Board outside 
the regular meeting to explore 
the interest of the students in 
Board membership and to ac
quaint members of the Board 
more fully with the calibre of 
student leadership on the 
campus.
As a result of the experience 
of student membership on 
committees and the meeting 
with the Board, Mr. Foy there
after regularly invited the Presi
dent of Student Government to 
attend the full meeting of the 
Board and to present a regular 
report. In all of the years during 
which this practice has been fol
lowed the Board has on only one 
occasion gone into executive ses
sion and met privately.
So much of history is desir
able as introduction to another 
element of the relation between 
the Board of Trustees and its 
constituents. Historically, the 
governing Boards of colleges and 
universities have performed 
widely varying functions. The 
term Trustee is usually re
served for those people who are 
authorized under charter to hold 
in trust on behalf of the public 
the real property and assets of 
an institution that is organized 
to meet some set of public needs 
not otherwise addressed by com
mercial or governmental agen
cies. The reason the assets are 
held in trust for the public is to 
guarantee that they are not con
verted for the private gain of the 
operators of the institution and 
secondarily to insure that the 
public need will continue to be 
met.
Under those circumstances 
the function of trustees is con
servative and it is exercised or
dinarily by careful review of the 
operation of the institution, 
careful appointment of the of
ficers and executives of the in
stitution, periodic review of the 
details of operation and involve
ment in two kinds of decisions: 
(1) Those which commit the 
assets of the institution for long
periods of time (Examples: the 
sale of property, or the commit
ment to engage in an activity, 
for instance, the opening of a 
new department or a new col* 
lege). (2) Those less well-defined 
decisions which establish insti
tutional policy. (A good exam
ple of this is the decision to col
lect separately as a fee those 
funds which support student 
activities.) The greatest single 
source of misunderstanding 
about the function of Boards of 
Trustees has probably come 
from the widespread interpreta
tion among Boards of what con
stitutes policy and what does 
not. Almost everyone is aware of 
small liberal arts colleges in 
which the Boards consider the 
determination of specific parie
tal hours to be a policy matter.
Partly because of the broad 
national nature of its Board and 
because of the professional skills 
and expertise represented on it, 
the Board of Carnegie-Mellon 
University has had less difficulty 
identifying policy decisions and 
has, during the years that I have 
been familiar with its operation, 
been very careful to avoid in
volving itself in operational de
cisions.
For a Board to conduct itself 
in that way, however, it is ex
tremely important that its mem
bers have continuing confidence 
in the way that administrative 
officers, faculty, and students 
carry out their delegated respon
sibilities. Thus the regular con
tact between faculty and stu
dents and members of the Board 
is important and it is a compli
ment to all members of this 
academic community that the 
contact has engendered contin
ued trust and confidence.
One final comment about the 
relationship between trustees 
and the campus might be in or
der. At the time that Mr. Foy, as 
Chairman of the Board, arranged 
fdr broader participation by stu
dents and faculty in the activi
ties of the Board, he set as one 
of his objectives that the con
tinuing contact would result in 
more communication of the in
terests, concerns and activities 
of the Board to the campus 
community at large. To a certain 
extent, the feedback mechanism 
has been disappointing to the 
Board and to the administration. 
Relatively infrequently do stu
dent members of committees of 
the Board report their activities 
to Student Senate, and even less 
frequently are they reported 
through other campus media. I 
should like to urge that all stu
dents who participate with trus
tees in University committees 
try to become more active in 
this communication process and 
in extending the benefit of th^ 
close association which has de
veloped at Carnegie-Mellon 
University between trustees, stu
dents and faculty.
Far le K. Swank 
Dean, Student AJfairs
AN ALTERNATE VIEW:
The Role of the Humanities Depts.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4THE TARTAN-October 21. 1975
news comment 2
1
"z7! thought' the banana " 
tW Kept" 
UOHPFFACAR F.O.FredmOUO DUa nd AUAL K Go a hlgA 0\ yEO sFArhN DvK enec&ts 
of the a Iftr ego.
YOU GET WHAT YOU PAY FOR.
LOSING BY DEFAULT?%Call Now...
News item: A committee headed 
by Dr. Timothy McGuire has 
charged that the quality of the 
CMU student body has dropped 
as enrollment increased, with 
applicants SAT scores dropping 
from 25 to 50 points compared 
with national averages over a 7 
year period. The committee also 
suggested that the school is 
drawing money from its endow
ment too rapidly, and reducing 
faculty and staff to cope with 
the increase in students.
News item: In a speech to the 
freshman class, CMU President 
Richard Cyert promised that 
. . .you wll become a person 
who uses rational, analytic me
thods. . .you will understand the 
difference between fact and 
value judgment. . .you will be
come a person who approaches 
all problems with your head 
rather than your emotions. . . 
you will become a rational, an
alytic being.
* * *
It was, come to think of it, a 
rational, analytic solution to a 
problem.
The First himt to the students 
at Cranberry-Money'University 
came when a recently graduated 
English major found an unusual 
matchbook while sweeping the 
floor in the Tartan grill.
The matchbook showed a 
tiny photograph of a clean-cut 
young man and woman standing 
in front of a rapidly spinning 
computer tape drive.
You too can train for an ex
citing career in computers, electrofiics, mechanics, or other 
technical Field, it said, just 
above the smiling faces of the 
man and the woman. A high 
school diploma and our specialletters
continued from page 2
school friends believe that they 
are just small cogs in a very large 
wheel. There is absolutely no 
sense of individualism to be 
found at the state funded 
schools.
Another problem I find in 
Mr. Singers argument is the 
narrow vision that Gary has 
of Liberal Arts Majors. Perhaps 
you do not realize this, Gary,
but there is great opportunity
for Liberal Arts Majors to
intertwine their Humanities 
knowledge with the superb 
science programs at Mellon. A 
good example of this is my 
roommate, who is registered in 
engineering. The amount of 
information that is passed
between us is staggering. I enjoy 
learning about new engineering 
concepts, just as my roomie is 
equally fascinated by the fine 
authors I come in contact with.
It seems a shame that young 
people cant understand the
Don't Delay
ized training is all you need to 
get a high-paying job in these 
fast-growing fields. Approved for 
veterans. Call 412-621-2600 for 
free information.
Theyll do anything to get a 
little more tuition money, 
grumbled the English graduate as 
she returned to the counter to 
take a pulpy pineapple milk
shake off of the mixer.
The next day, a student who 
was browsing through the latest 
issue of Hot Rod magazine 
during his Fluid Mechanics 
course discovered an unusual 
advertisement on page 72. It 
showed a full page version of the 
photo on the matchbook cover, 
with a giant headline that read: 
TRAIN NOW FOR AN 
EXCITING, HIGH PAYING 
CAREER IN A FASTGROWING FIELD 
The ad repeated most of the 
words on the matchbook cover, 
and went on to say, Maybe 
youve heard about friends with 
college degrees who cant find 
work. Why bother with college 
when industry is clamoring for 
thousands of trained people with 
the rational, analytical skills that 
you too can develop without 
wasting four years out of your 
life?
Our free Socio-rational Ana
lytical ability Test (SAT) will let 
you find out immediately, with 
no cost to you, whether our 
specialized training is suited to 
you. Theres no obligation, so 
dont delay. Over 90% of those 
who take this test find theyre 
ready to start immediately on 
the road to an important new ca
reer. Call now at 412 621 - 
2600.
Late that afternoon, a group 
of students lounged around a 
dormitory television set tuned to 
Star Trek. Captain Kirk and Mr. 
Spock were discussing the logiimportance of diversification. It 
would make a very neat orderly 
world, if we all declared our am
bitions and followed the 
designated paths to the im
mediate goals.
Perhaps Warner Hall sees an
important need for specification
and classification of young
people. Thats fine but I was
under the impression that private universities were
cal, analytical remedies for air 
pollution caused by Klingon 
warships which dumped their 
partially burned anti-matter just 
outside the galaxy limits. Since 
everyone knew by heart the en
tire script of the episode, the 
students ignored the program 
and instead argued about 
whether Vulcans are capable of 
enjoying crossword puzzles.
A commercial interrupted, 
showing a tall, muscular young 
man and a lithe young woman 
with long blonde hair cavorting 
across a beach, their bodies sil
houetted against the setting sun 
as they embraced. At the same 
time, the announcers voice said, 
Are you tired of solving pro
blems by using your emotions 
instead of your head? Join the 
rational, analytical people. For 
information, call 412- 621-2600. 
Call now, dont delay! 412 
621-2600. Operators are wait
ing!
Late that night, a janitor was 
cleaning the SUPA office in presupposed to provide young peo
ple with an education and a 
chance to grow, not an incu
bator to produce trained ma
chines.
Thanks for the space but 
Ive simply got to get over to the 
library before the university 
changes the facility into a new 
computation center.
paration for its move to Scaife 
Hall, the H&SS office in prepara
tion for its move to MMCC, the 
bookstore in preparation for its 
move to the Forbes Avenue bus 
shelter, and the English and His
tory department offices in pre
paration for their move to the 
fourth floor of Skibo. As he 
dusted the pages of the hand
somely bound volume, Five 
Steps to a Better Australian 
Crawl, which lay open on the 
desk of H&SS Dean Patrick 
Seldomseen (affectionately 
known within the college as the 
absentee minded professor), a 
peculiar paper fell to the floor. 
It seemed to be a copy of a 
letter. Here is what it said:
Dear Dr. Cipher,
I am afraid it is just out of 
the question for us to bail you 
out of your financial straits. If 
you had net persistently drawn 
money out of your endowment 
through years of mismanage
ment, you would not be bankPersonally speaking, we see a 
fourth and final aspect in the 
pioneering work in artificial 
intelligence being done in several 
departments at CMU. At this 
stage, it seems too early to 
forecast what mature interac
tions between this science and
rupt now.
Incidentally, I am not im
pressed by your argument that a 
default by your institution will 
precipitate an international eco
nomic crisis. And Treasury Se
cretary Simon feels that your ^ 
scheme for increasing enroll
ment through correspondence 
courses is, while ingenious, 
bound to fail. He suggests that 
you try borrowing from your 
teachers, though if you have 
really been reducing the teaching 
staff by 2% annually, you may 
not have many left. If you are ^ 
really serious about putting your 
financial -house in order, consi
der cutting out football.
Yours,
Gerald. R. Hoover
P.S. Thanks for your kind invita
tion, but I cant come visit you 
until my car gets back from the 
shop.
the humanities could produce.
We would at the very least, 
claim the potential for new 
cultural experiences. With its 
record of achievement in this 
area, it would certainly be ironic 
if CMU were to shut itself off 
from these experinces by illconsidered action. \
Summarizing, a humanities 
program has relevance and is 
necessary for the healthy func
tioning of a university. The pro
per framework for discussion is 
not one of institutional competi
tion, nor the bravado of we 
cant be everything for every- * 
body, but rather one of pro
viding $ rich intellectual environ
ment, and a concept of social 
relevance. The proper frame
work is one of recognition of 
and tolerance for a wide range 
of human intellecual activity.
R. Kamesh and R. Bhaskar %
Fred Freedman
Of the many things we have done to democracy in the pjst, the 
worst has been the indignity of taking it for granted. DD
Max Lerner/ /
DONT LET STUDENTS TAKE 
STUDENT SENATE 
FOR GRANTED
The TARTAN invites all candidates for Student Senate to pick up the 
TARTAN questionaire at the Skibo Information Desk and to return them to 
the TARTAN, Skibo 50 NO LATER THAN NOVEMBER 4th, at twelve 
noon.
printed as a public service of the CMU TARTAN
-E. Coli
Keep Humanities
continued from page 3

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-October 21,1975-Page 5
announcements
Carnegie-Mellon University is pleased to an
nounce the organization of a (reciprocal) 
undergraduate exchange program with 
Ecole Polytechnique Fedrale de Lausanne 
(EPFL), Switzerland for selected students 
in engineering and applied science. This 
program represents the first international 
exchange established between colleges of 
engineering on a formal and reciprocal 
baste in the United States. It entails selec
tion of participants during the freshman 
year, academic preparation at CMU dur
ing the senior year. (During the Fall 
semester 1975, however, ''sophomores'' 
are also eligible to apply for an exchange 
commencing in September 1976.) No ad
ditional expense, other than travel, is anti
cipated.
For further information contact Pro
fessor C.L. Bauer, Science Hall 4323 in 
person or telephone 62I02600, extension 
358.
Human Sexuality Lecture: A program on
Preventive Medicine? will be held on Tues
day, October 21 at 7:00 pm in Breed Hall. 
A primary decision to be made before en
gaging in sexual activity should be "How 
do I protect myself?" This lecture will 
show and explain the variety of contracep
tive forms available for man and women, 
and how they affect the reproductive sys
tem. In conjunction with contraceptives 
are the "preventive medicines" one should 
use as safe-guards against the variety of 
communicable diseases associated with sex
ual activity. Cathy Gable, Director of Edu
cation, Planned Parenthood of Pittsburgh.
/Organizational Systems for Student Activi
ties, Part III will be held on Saturday, Oc
tober 25 at 10 am to 4 pm, in the Faculty 
Lounge, Skibo. The topics to be discussed 
will include Publish or Perish, Liabilities 
and responsibilities of Student Organiza
tions, and Accounting and other Related 
Lively Topics. Since lunch will be pro
vided to all participants, please sign up in 
advance at the Skibo Information Desk.
Hunt Library will hold a book giveaway to
members of the University community. 
The giveaway tables will be set up in the 
basement of Hunt Library on Oct. 29,
The Club francophone will hold its first
meeting of the current academic year on 
Thursday October 30th, at 7:30 pm in 
the Wherrett Room, Skibo. New Officers 
will be elected, and activities planned. 
Any full-time CMU student interested in 
participation in events with a French 
flavor, join us!
Plays, Playwrights, Playwrighting. Play
wrights of the CMU Drama Department 
will discuss playwrighting; read selected 
original works and answer any questions re
garding their works or their craft. 12:30 
Thursday, Oct. 24th in the Wherret Room, 
Skibo. Bring your lunch and a friend. 
Sponsored by Campus Program Planning 
in cooperation with the Department of 
Student Activities.
The Premedical Advisory Committee in
vites all premedical students to be guests 
of the Committee at a meeting in the Wher
rett Room at 4:30 pm on Wednesday, Oc
tober 22. The main purpose of this meeting 
is to discuss admission requirements and 
procedures of medical and dental schools. 
Refreshments.
ASCE Program: Navy Underwater Con
struction - Ocean Engineering. Oct. 23, 
4:30 pm.
Buttons the Clown, the Merry Ambassador
of the Bicentennial Edition of Ringling 
Bros, and Barnum & Bailey Circus, has 
been invited to lecture to the Drama stu
dents on Thursday, October 23, at 4:30 
pm in Kresge Theatre, College of Fine 
Arts. The lecture is opened to the entire 
campus. There is no admission charge.
Th meeting of the campus chapter of the
American Society of Mechanical Engineers 
(ASME) will feature a beer blast, in con
junction with its regular business meeting. 
An informal presentation by a member of 
the faculty is included on the agenda. 
Thursday, Oct. 23, 8 pm. PIKA fraternity 
house, Morewood Ave. All mechanical en
gineering students are invited to come meet 
people and have a good time.
Intercollegiate Volleyball: The CMU Vol
leyball Club will hold 2 tryout sessions in 
the main gym from 4:30 to 6:00 on Tues
day, Oct. 21 and 5:30 to 7:00 on Thurs
day, Oct. 23. All members of the campus 
community who are interested in inter
collegiate play and who have not been con
tacted should attend one of these two ses
sions.
The Carnegie-Mellon University Chapter of
the Honor Society of Phi Kappa Phi is in 
the process of updating its mailing list of 
on-campus faculty and student members. 
Would all members please send their name 
and campus (or local) address to:
Lark Samuels, Sec'y 
Phi Kappa Phi
Department of Mathematics
Faculty members from the University of
Pittsburgh's School of Social Work will 
evaluate the treatment of alcoholism in a 
forum Tuesday, Oct. 21 at 7 pm in the 
Graduate School of Public Health Lecture 
Halli
The forum will focus on an evaluation 
of the CHIT CHAT Foundation, a resident
ial treatment program. CHIT CHAT is 
a 28-day program of intensive therapy, 
closely tied programmatically and phil
osophically to Alcoholics Anonymous, 
with a goal of total abstinence for the al
coholic.
Martin Baum, director of the evaluation, 
will join Barbara Jameson and Gary Koeski, both research associate professors at 
Pitt, and Barbara Shore, director of Pitt's 
social work doctoral program, in the panel 
discussion. The panel will explore the eval
uation's findings and its policy implica
tions, as well as the practitioner's point of 
view on the success of the CHIT CHAT 
method.
The forum is open to the public, but reg
istration will be limited to 60 people. 
To register, contact the School of Social 
Work at 624-6311.
The Admissions Officer of American Uni
versity's graduate programs will be meeting 
with interested students, faculty and ad
ministrators for an informal discussion on 
Friday, Oct. 24, from 10 am to 12 noon.
The Philosophy Department of Duquesne
University is pleased to announce that 
Dr. Richard Samuel (University of Mel
bourne, Australia) who is the critical editor 
of Novalis'Works and Visiting Professor at 
the University of Pittsburgh, will speak on 
the topic "Nietzsche's Six Challenges To 
Tradition."
The lecture will be held on Wednesday, 
Nov. 5, 1975 at 7:30 pm in Duquesne 
University, College Hall, Room 105.
A new telephone "hotline" service is
starting at the University of Pittsburgh. 
Manned by members of the Gay Students 
at Pitt organization, the service is designed 
to answer questions and provide informa
tion about and for the local gay commun
ity.
Phone lines are currently open Tuesday 
evenings from 7-11 pm and Wednesday 
mornings 9 am to 1 pm. The phone num
ber is 624-5944. People seeking informa
tion are also welcome to stop at the Gay 
Students' office in Room 317 of the Pitt 
Student Union (Schenley Hall).
The B'nai B'rith Hillell-Jewish University
Center will sponsor a program on Thurs
day, October 23, at 8 p.m. in the Hillel 
Library, 3rd floor, Oakland Jewish Com
munity Center. The speaker will be Dr. 
Rivka Bar Yosef, Scholar-ln-Residence 
will discuss "Legal, Political, Economic 
Status of Women."
Every Thursday night at 7:30 in the 
Hillel Lounge, 3rd floor, 315 S. Bellefield, the B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish Uni
versity Center has Israeli dancing and Is
raeli food.
B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish University 
Center will have an undergraduate social 
on Saturday, October 25, at 9 p.m. in the 
Hillel Lounge, 3rd floor, 315 S. Beliefield 
Ave.
"Constitutional Issues: Individual Rights
and Victimization," the third in the series 
of Law and Justice Workshops presented 
by the University of Pittsburgh's Admin
istration of Justice Program, will be held 
on Tuesday and Wednesday, Oct. 28 and 
29, in the University Room of the Web
ster Hotel, Oakland.
The Workshop will run from 9 am to 5 pm 
each day. Registration is open to the pub
lic. The program is designed to be of spec
ial interest to representatives of public 
agencies, special interest groups, civic and 
community organizations, and individuals 
interested in problems of consumer rights, 
minority rights, victimization, and individ
ual constitutional rights.
Prominent Pittsburgh obstetrician Thom
as E. Allen, M.D. will discuss sexuality 
during and after pregnancy as part of the 
free Open House to be given by the Pitts
burgh Organization for Childbirth Educa
tion on Monday, October 27, at 8:00 pm 
in the Community Room of Monroeville 
Mall. The primary purpose of this Open 
House is to provide information about 
educated prepared childbirth through a 
panel discussion and the excellent child
birth film, "The Story of Eric". On the 
panel will be a POCE instructor and lay 
couples who are willing to share their 
birth experience with others interested in 
Lamaze birth ... Speakers will cover nutri
tion, breastfeeding, and parenting, as well 
as answer any questions. Light refresh
ments will be served and free packets con
taining interesting prenatal information 
will be distributed.
P1ATIGNUM ITALIC SET
rr. Contains a fountain pen, five 
Otalu m6s, and instruction 
manual a(ifor only
IK I ^ art matcn*(pen sdops, 
I coffcijc book, stares ...or send9 chcck. to 'Penta(ic Corp., 112
Xi Wsr 22 St., N.y., N.y. toon
j|g Add 50 cents for fmndfinij.
Having trouble with your courses? FASTFree Academic Student Tutoring is now 
available in most CIT, MIS, and Architec
ture lower-level courses, as well as some 
H&SS courses. Stop by Peer Help, 
BH 150-A or call 621-9900 for further 
information.
Classified
Need part-time work? Jr. and Sr. CIT, MIS,
Architecture, Economics, Social Relations, 
Foreign Language students with a 2.7 or 
better average wanted as tutors. Pay 
$2.50/hr. You define the hours. Contact 
Peer Help, Baker Hall 150-A, 687-7414, 
Ext. 8874.
LSAT Preparation: 15 hour skills work
shop designed and taught by an educa
tional psychologist, legal analysis by a 
member of the Bar. Next course December 
26-31. LSAT Preparation Associates, 
P.O. Box 4134, Pittsburgh, PA 15202. 
Phone 412-835-3313.
Earn up to $80.00 per month for 4 hours
of your time per week. Donate plasma at 
Sera-Tec Biological, 3407 Forbes Ave. 
(next to Arby's). Open 8:45 to 5:30 Mon
day ttrrough Friday. 682-3190.
Need a few extra $$? Administer survey
questionaires to members of local construc
tion unions. October 25, 26 at $5 per re
turned questionaire. Drop in Mg 309 or call 
school ext. 8866 between 8:30 - 5:30, 
Wednesday - Friday.
Be a leader of our nation's Bicentennial
celebration. Bikecentennial is seeking 1400 
leaders to run the inaugural tours in 1976 
of the first Trans-America Bicycle Trail. 
Leaders will receive food, lodging, and nor
mal tour services as well as a small daily ex
pense allowance. All part of an adventure 
of a lifetime.
For further details on Leadership Training 
Courses and an application write: 
BIKECENTENNIAL '76 
P.O. Box 1034 
Missoula, MT 59801
"The movie Les Liaisons dangereuses,
with Gerard Philippe and Jeanne Moreau, 
will be shown Sunday November 9 at
7 pm in DH 2210. 50 cents with A.B. card. 
Otherwise 75 cents." (French speaking, 
English sub-titles.)
EARN UP TO $1800 a school year or
more posting educational literature on 
campus in spare time. Send name, address, 
phone, school and references to: Nation
wide College Marketing Services, Inc., 
P.O. Box 1384, Ann Arbor, Michigan 
48106. Call (313) 662-1770.
Job opening. Undergraduate laboratory
assistant, Biological Sciences. Prior lab ex
perience highly desiratile; chemistry lab 
experience preferred. Minimum of 10 hrs. 
per week. Pay negotiable. Call Miss Condy, 
M.l. 340, for appointment.
Personals
To the Tartan,
The founder will disappear. One of his 
attributes will shrink and I don't mean the 
endowment.
Signed, 
The Head

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6THE TAR TAN-October 21,1975
Contest Requests Submissions
The Greater Interest in Government 
Contest is once again requesting submission 
of essays dealing with problems related to 
government. The competition is open to all 
undergraduates at Carnegie-Mellon. Essays 
may be submitted by individuals or by 
teams of up to three members.
Topics may include any aspect of local, 
city, state, regional, or national problems. 
Prize winning essays in previous years have 
included essays on aspects of secondary 
education, unemployment, criminal justice 
and urban decay. Student should be care
ful to select topics which are not too broad
Frats
continued from page 1
tion that sponsors such projects as fund 
raising events, etc. Since A Phi A has its 
headquarters at Pitt, the members have no 
desire to have a house. Mike Moore said 
that Senate and UFO have been very sup
portive. At first, A Phi A applied as an or
ganization, but were told by senate that 
they would have more chance of being re
cognized as a frat. Recognition by the 
school would open up school facilities and 
enable the frat to become more involved in 
campus activities.
to make possible treatment in depth. The 
essays will be judged for quality of analy
sis, clarity of exposition, and (where appro
priate) feasibility of implementation. Stu
dents may seek advice from faculty in de
fining their topic.
Those desiring to enter the competition 
should submit entries of not more than 
three hundred words on or before Friday, 
November 7. These entries should outline 
and describe the topjc which the student 
wishes to develop and give some indication 
of the material he or she intends to con
sult. By November 21 the authors of the 
six most promising entries will be invited 
to submit final entries.
Final entries will be due January 6 and 
prizes will be announced February 2. The 
length of a final entry may not exceed
5,000 words. The papers should conform 
to good style in matters such as footnoting 
and bibliography. First prize is $180, se
cond- prize $120 and third prize $90. 
(Should no paper meet the minimum stan
dards of the committee, the committee re
serves the right to award fewer than three 
prizes or no prizes at all.)
Turn in all entries to the Department of 
Social Relations, MM307. Questions should 
be addressed to Dr. Gordon Lewis, De
partment of Social Relations.
Grades Have Changed? *
Midterms are over and the professor is 
now charged with evaluating each student 
and assigning a grade. Upon receiving the 
grade cards, though, CMU instructors were 
implicitly informed that CMU is now 
assigning intermediate grades: A+ or Aect. No one has said anything about this to
either the students receiving the grades oi 
the Professors giving them, yet the printer 
seems to be telling everyone that the 
grading system has indeed undergone 
significant change. Hopefully everyone 
concerned will figure out if a new system 
is in effect in time to get their grades in
EPFL Exchanges with CMU
continued from page 1
French. It is not necessary for participants 
to have any exposure to previous to this. 
The junior year is spent at EPFL with the 
participant returning to CMU to complete 
the work of the senior year. Upon success
ful completion of the course work planned 
as a freshman, the participant is guaranteed 
a degree from CMU.
During the entire period the student is 
officially a student at CMU, with all fees 
paid directly to CMU and all scholarship 
money received applicable. In this way the 
program will incurr no additional academic 
expences for the participant. Cost of living 
grants will be available to reimburse those 
participants who would commute while at
tending CMU, for living expenses at EPFL.
l ravel expenses should be insignificant for
for the sufficiently motivated student, but 
grants may be available to defray travel 
costs.
It stressed that adaptability is the im-v, 
portant criterion for the selection of parti
cipants. A minimum of two semesters of 
French is considered sufficient for the stu
dent to be able to adequately communicate 
in French at EPFL. All final examinations 
at EPFL are oral and most professors pos
sess a working knowledge of English, there
fore students technical competence can be 
separated from his communication ability. 4
Professor Bauer points out Switzerland 
is a small country where privacy is highly 
valued. Making friends is not a trivial mat
ter. This makes adaptability on the part 
of the participant to be essential.
THUR5D/Vafternoon
PKHEONFDRUMS
?

Plays, Playwrights, Play Writing
GNu IUDED IOgFR
12:30 
Wherrett Room Bring lunch and a friend
fgeCseUOL ib GNu GDEgPs tUepUDE thDCCACp
miti itti

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-October 21, 1975-Page 7"Smile: Cruel Laughter
by Mark Evan Chimsky
If there is such a thing as pseudo
pornography, Smile is surely it. The 
film makes a flashy attempt to satirize 
beauty contests, and in the process, capital
izes on the very exploitation it condemns. 
Theres a young boy in the film who hangs 
around the Santa Rosa auditorium where 
the thirty-three Young American Miss can
didates are busy twirling bamboo sticks 
and padding their bras. The boy is a car
toon obscenity, panting and leering at the 
girls through binoculars. Director Michael 
Ritchie and Screenwriter Jerry Belson seem 
to pick up on the kids tricks; the film is 
a combination of those trashy beach party 
movies and True Confessions - the nubile 
teenage girls are lingered over, and then 
smugly jeered at. The whole film smacks of 
smug condescension. The girls are pretty 
throwaways  we are not much interested 
in any of them. Most of the films time is 
spent putting down Young American Miss 
Salinas, whose accent is as thick as the 
guacamole dip she persists in preparing for 
the judges. She is the arch-villain of the 
film, a caricature so broadly overstated, its 
offensive. Belson chastises the girl for her 
lack of ethics by making her a cut-out 
bitch with a hard-sell smile. The audience 
laughs easily, but it is cruel, near-sighted 
laughter, for what about the other girls 
Ritchie skims over? The girls who connive 
to sabotage Miss Salinas act or the ones 
who stuff the bras of their timid bustlines? 
Ms. Guacamole is more laughable only 
because her strategies are more transparent, 
more accessible, her hokey patriotism and 
guacamole dips more honestly out-front. 
Ritchie and Belson muddle their manipu 
lation of our derision. None of the girls 
are human  they are typed, categorized 
in much the same way beauty pagents slot 
their contestants. Here, we root for Miss 
Antelope Valley, the Honest Free Spirit 
with the Ultra Brite smile not because of 
anvthin? she does, but rather, because of 
the little corruptions she does not take part 
in.
Director Ritchie has a bad time of it 
with this lot: Bruce Dern plays Big Bob 
Freelander, the earnest Jaycee sponsor/ 
used car dealer who is in love with his 
power to recruit an American Dream and 
make it reality. Dern suggests a cleareyed 
intensity and lanky good humor that is at 
odds with the sloppy falseness of the film. 
Items performance works as a teaser for 
a Smile with depth that never material
izes - his homespun humanity merely con
fuses the contrived exploitation of a world 
in which the heart has no place. The
BEST RESUME
RESUMES 
 Special Student Rates 
 Confidential, fast service
f Guaranteed Satisfaction
Why miss an opportunity to begin 
your career by presenting yourself 
with a poorly prepared resume? 
Dur staff is composed of highly 
trained and experienced 
professionals who know how to 
market your talents and skills. Our 
resumes command attention. They 
produce results. They con help you 
get that interview so essential to 
your job search. Don't risk your 
future by being unprepared. Call us 
today for information or write for 
free brochure.
-Our Services- Effective Creative 
Composition, Editing and Styling, 
IBM Executive Typing, Custom Of
fset Printing, Employer Mailing 
Lists391-0644
"Pgh's oldest service"
The Penthouse 
625 Stanwix St.
casting of Michael Kidd as the 
hard-core New York chorerographer  the 
has-been who survives  follows the trendy 
Chorus Line ethic of casting dancers as
tight, and only when he appears to be ac
ting does he seem pedantic.
Most embarrassing of all is Barbara 
Feldon as Brenda, a former contest winner
10f4 Y 
-0fuN0 
f0-9KG0Ottices Coast to Coast m
themselves. Such performers usually lend 
authority to their roles primarily by past, 
and not present, action. Why does Michael 
Kidd need to act ?- everyone knows he 
really is a choreographer. The verite of 
this sort of cinema almost gets him off the 
hook. His performance is brusque and
who devotes herself to training the girls 
with robot-like charm. Done up like Mary 
Tyler Moore, Ms. Feldon is either badly 
miscast or badly directed ( probably 
both). Like most of the other characters, 
she is given few private, revelatory mo
ments. There is no intimacy allowed between the character and the audience. 
Usually she just shrills over her husbands 
drinking and chirps at the girls to smile. 
Theres nothing between the lines  her 
smile is too lobotomized. (At one point we 
are loudly informed that she is frigid, as 
if the word were explanation enough for all 
that she is.)
Ritchie seems to see most of his charac
ters as pathetic joke vehicles. The best 
scene in the film is the opening few 
moments, in which a contest hopeful runs 
through her talent act, which consists of 
showing a hushed audience how to pack a 
suitcase. From there on, its mostly down
hill, with the exception of Nat King Coles 
lovely rendition of Smile and a few, 
brief glimpses of the girls, expressing ten
dernesses toward one another which border 
on the sexual, and rightly so - their physi
cal closeness speaks of a well-groomed 
world without men, a little world blown-up 
to commercial size, where female comfort 
is made to replace female trust.
Ritchies occasional, sharp-witted in
sights are quickly lost to a sit-com arena 
of coyly debauched routines: (i.e., the days 
of the week that are flashed intermittently 
during the course of the film turn out to be 
stiched on the bikini bottoms of one of the 
female contestants} By far the worst bit in 
the film, and perhaps the worst bit I have 
seen on film in recent years, takes 
piace in a clandestine Jaycees meeting 
where Bruce Dern as Big Billy tries to rally 
Brendas alcoholic husband through the 
rites of club initiation by making him kiss 
the backside of a dead chicken. It is one of 
those moments that reminds us that there 
is nothing more grueling than unlikeable 
farce.
Go home on Allegheny. And 
save yourself some money. We
offer a wide variety of discount 
travel plans with big savings for 
groups and individuals.
The Liberty Fare. You can go 
home and a lot of other places 
besides, with unlimited travel at 
one low price. You get a choice of 
3 plans, too-7 days for $129, 14 
days for $ 149 and 21 days for $ 179. 
Good everywhere we fly, except 
Canada.
Group 10. Save up to 33'/% 
roundtrip (up to 20% one way). 
Groups of 10 or more save when 
they purchase tickets 48 hours in 
advance and take off together. And 
you can each return separately, if 
you like. Good everywhere we fly.
Group 4-9. Save up to 20% 
roundtrip. Groups of 4 to 9 save 
when you make reservations 48 
hours in advance and fly together 
to and from selected cities. Stay at 
least 3 but no more than 30 days.
Leave before noon on weekdays 
anytime on weekends.
Weekend. Save up to 25% on 
your roundtrip ticket when you 
go and return on a Saturday or 
Sunday.
For complete information on 
all of our money-saving discount 
travel plans and flight reservations, 
see your Travel Agent or call your 
local Allegheny Airlines reserva
tions number. And get ready to go 
home or anywhere else.
America's 6th largest passenger-earning airline.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8THE TARTAN-October 21,1975
by Michael Marinangeli
Welcome back! October break is over, 
Midsemester gradts are in, and the Boston 
Red Sox are out. We are now approxi
mately four and a half million seconds into 
the first term and we have over three mil
lion more to go before our next break. 
That means youve got plenty of time to 
spare, and you should plan to spend a few 
of those precious seconds on some cul
turally stimulating entertainment in and 
around Pittsburgh. After all, whats a few 
thousand when youve got a million?
I recommend expending a chunk of 
that time at the Civic Arena. They have got 
some first-rate concerts booked for both 
October and November. This Thursday 
night, the Doobie Brothers will hit the 
Arena stage for an 8 oclock show followed 
by a Marvin Gaye performance on Friday 
night at 8:30 pjn. Frank Zappa and the 
Mothers will also conjure up a few unri
valed tunes for the Arena crowds on No
vember 7th at 8:00 p.m. Rumor also has it 
that Yes will attempt to sneak into the 
Arena for a midnight jam sometime in late 
November, but again thats only a rumor. 
Two things you can be sure of is that the 
Box Office number at the Arena is, 
471-1312, and that these shows will be 
worth your while in both seconds and 
hours.
Crosby & Nash will play at The Stanley 
Theatre on November 11th in what pro
mises to be a very delectable show. The 
number at The Stanley is 261-2800. An
other rumor has it that the Kinks will 
also be around within the next month  
this being a stronger rumor than the first. 
So much for rumors.
Do you enjoy poetry? If you do, you 
should attend the International Poetry 
Forum on October 29 at 8:00 p.m. in the 
Carnegie Lecture Hall. Famed writer and 
poet, John Updike, will share the stage 
with Karen Swenson, an English teacher at 
C.C.N.Y., as they read selections of their 
works and discuss the various interpreta
tions of poetry. Tickets are $3.00 and are 
available to senior citizens and students 
for only two dollars at Kaufmans, The Pitt 
Student Union, and the Forum office in 
the Carnegie Library in Oakland.
Mill River Productions, presents An 
Evening Of Original Poetry and Music, 
starring poets Joseph Drexler and Michael 
Wurster and guitarist Richard Salty
Salsgiver. The presentation will take place 
on Friday night, October 24, at 8:30 p.m. 
at the Lutheran University Center, 4515 
Forbes Avenue (right across from Scaife 
Gallery). All seats are $1.50 at the door.
On Friday, October 24, and Saturday, 
October 25, the Pittsburgh Film Makers 
Inc. will present film maker Victor Grauer. 
He will present and discuss his recent ex
perimental films. Grauer recently com
pleted the long awaited Book of the Year 
Three Thousand (1975), and also Combat. 
The show is at 8:00 pm. both nights, and 
admission is $1.00. The PFMI will also pre
sent another show on October 31 and No
vember 1st dealing with film portraits of
shows are at 8:00 and 10:00 p.m. at the 
PFM Screening Room located at 205 Oak
land Avenue. For more information call 
681-5449.
Still got some time to spare? Then drop 
over to the Hewlett Gallery and see some 
of John Sommers lithographs and watercolors. He is the Master Printer at Tamerina 
Institute and his works show why. This 
show will run through October 31st.
The movie in DH 2210 this Friday night 
is Thats Entertainment. It is a very enjoy
able show no matterwhat mood youre in.
That about wraps it up for this week. 
With a bit of initiative Im. sure you can all 
find something to do with all those spare 
seconds youve got to kill. Good Luck!
American People: Ephesus by Fred 
Padula, (1965) is a cinema account of a 
Sunday evening service in a Negro holi
ness church; Queen of Apollo, by Richard 
Leacock, 1970, reveals the debutantequeen of an exclusive New Orleans Mardi 
Gras Ball, on her big night; Bill and Ruby, 
by Richard Meyers, 1970, explores the 
world of novelty store owners in Ohio; 
and finally, George Dump sons Place, 
by Ed Emshiviller, 1964, is a reportage 
on a mans collection of junk over the 
years, a large statement on the compulsive 
inner poetry of a mans life. These four
Wednesday, October 29 thru Sunday, 
November 2.
The New York comedy success, "Sabrina k
Fair, with an all-star cast has been booked 
to open a one week engagement at the 
Nixon Theatre starting Monday evening, 
November 3 and continuing thru Saturday 
evening, November 8.
Rarely has any attraction boasted such 
an all-star company. The steller cast of 
stage, screen and television luminaries in 
"Sabrina Fair" include Robert Horton ^ 
Katherine Houghton, Russell Nype, Mau
reen O'Sullivan, Sylvia Sydney, and also 
stars Art Fleming.
Orginally produced by the Playrights 
Company in 1953, " Sabrina Fair" by 
Samuel Taylor is about a Long Island 
family and their chauffer's daughter. The 
show, a variation of the Cinderella legend, 
was later released on the screen by Para
mount in 1954. The big difference of this 
'rags to riches' heroine is that she inherits 
enough money to make her rich before she 
marries Prince Charming.
Performances of the high-spirited ro
mantic comedy will be held on the stage of 
the Nixon nightly at 8:30 P.M. There will 
be two matinee performances offered, on 
Wednesday at 2 P.M. and Saturday at 2:30 
P.M.
Mail orders are now being accepted. 
Tickets for all performances will go on sale 
at the Nixon Theater box office, as well as 
Kaufmann's, all Sears retail stores, and 
Horne's (downtown) beginning October 
27"Pinocchio", Stringy Enchantment For
Children. Here is a marionette show that 
must be seen to be believed. Theatre crit 
tics in New York have yanked out every 
superlative in the dictionary to describe 
the magic and excitement of this produc
tion. Would you believe 102 "Life Size" 
marionettes.
Pinocchio, with his trusty dog Koko, 
travel through an enchanted land, where 
they encounter such zany characters as 
dancing clowns, ostrich ballerinas, walking 
trees and a giant carniverous catfish - shi
ver, shiver !!! In another scene, the stage 
swarms with 'Wolligogs', yellow and pink 
scaries that will make the kids shriek 
with joy.
They'll love this show and so will you. 
At the Nixon Theatre, October 27 thru 
November 1, with several shows daily.
The Bicentennial Edition of the Greatest
Show on Earth is a lavish and proud salute 
to the 200th Birthday of The United States 
of America. In the stirring production 
"Circus Spirit of '76" a host of interna
tional circus stars perform in magnificent 
red, white and blue costumes. Here, a 
lovely lady in shimmering white proudly 
waves from the beautiful "Eagle" float. 
Ringling Bros, and Barnum & Bailey Circus 
will be at the Pittsburgh Civic Arena,
ERRATUM : The author of last weeks film 
review Would Bogart like It? was David 
Matthews.
FREE PREGNANCY TEST AND RELATED COUNCILING 
MONDAY--SATURDAY 9:00-5:00 
ALLEGHENY REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CENTER 
CALL 661-8811
IlfiS:*
B'NAI B'RITH HILLELJEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTERhk/xAAx0
UNDERGRADUATE SOCIAL
Saturday October 25 9 p.m. 
Hillel Lounge, 3rd Floor 
315 S. Bellefeld
315 S. Belief eld Avenue 
(across from Heinz Chapel)
621-8875
am
111
WE are not a factory
WITH HYDROPNEUMATIC CHAIRS, ELECTRIC CLIPPERS, 
AND A MOTORIZED BARBERPOLE
WE are not a marble temple
of Commercial Fashion with Pastel Portraits of 
Breck Girls on Rhinestone Walls.
We are a creative salon 
We emphasize the individual and the natural 
We surround you with live plants, warm woods, 
and professional competence.
We offer you a different way to go
You Judge
Where do you get your hair cut in a hydropneumatic factory, 
or in a marbleized temple
MIDIE8 flIND CCIMIILCinClM
5437 WALNUT IN SHADYSIDE PHONE: 621-7556
(Over Trevi)
The comfortable way to care for your hair
$6.00 and un depending on tha length of you hair
STUDENT DISCOUNT WITH THIS AD.
IIIKMil

---------------------------------------------------

sports 
TARTANS KICKED BY BISONS AS OFFENSE FAILS
THE TARTAN-October 21, 1975-Page 9
by Gerry Fraley
For a few days this week, the CMU 
Tartans will be torturing themselves. Tor
turing themselves by replaying a football 
game that they lost 97 to the Bethany 
Bisons, a loss that dropped their record
23, 33 overall, in the Presidents Ath
letic Conference and put an end to any 
hopes of a conference championship.
They will remember four offensive 
turnovers that were turned by the Bisons 
into three field goals by Bob Williams, 
the last one coming with 1:16 remaining in 
the game that gave Bethany the win. They 
will remember that they lost more than 
Bethany won.
We didnt have it offensively, said 
Tartan head coach Joe Gasperella. We 
couldnt put anything together. For as bad 
as we played at times, we were still in the 
game though, added Gasperella.
First year defensive coordinator Jim 
Youngblood had a somewhat higher 
opinion of the Tartan defensive play. 
Overall, it was our best defensive per
formance of the year. said Youngblood.
The Tartan defense did turn in a stellar 
performance. The offense however, was 
not as bad as it seemed to be. The surface 
of Tech stadium was more of a roadblock 
to the Tartan offense than the Bethany 
defense. Carnegie has put in the veer 
offense this season and the veer works best 
on a dry playing surface. The playing 
surface for Saturdays game w&s anything 
but firm after the night-long downpour 
that made the field into a reasonable 
facsimile of a rice paddy. The poor footing 
hampered the veer by restricting footing 
that is needed to run the veer.
Bethany got on the board first by 
.capitalizing on a offense turnover by 
the Tartans. Quarterback Jay Duquette 
fumbled on the Tartan 18 while attempting 
to run the veer and Bison defensive tackle 
Rick Snyder recovered.
Three Bethany running plays produced 
only three yards and brought on a fourth 
down situation. Williams, who last week hit 
a 26 yard field goal with :10 remaining in 
the game to defeat Thiel 10-7, came on to 
attempt a 32 yarder. The left-foot kicking 
senior from Worthington, Ohio was perfect 
and Bethany led 3-0 with 8:50 remaining 
in the first quarter.
The Tartans came right back after the 
field goal with a 15 play, 75 yard drive for
a touchdown. Two big passing plays by Du
quette kept the drive going. Faced with a 
thi.d and six from his own 29, Duquette 
connected with flanker Billy OMara for a 
15 yard pickup and a first down. OMara 
was tightly covered by two Bethany 
defenders on the play but Duquettes pass 
was perfect. OMara was hit hard but still 
made the catch.
Duquette went to the air on the next 
play as he hit Dick West on a perfectly 
executed screen play that went for 24 
yards to the Bethany 24. Duquette went to 
West again on an extremely crucial fourth 
and 1 at the Bison 13, and West responded 
with a reception for seven yards and 
another first down. An eight yard run by 
Pete Rothermel moved the ball to the 5, 
West picked up one to the 4. Duquette 
bulled in for the score from here on a 
quarterback sneak behind the blocking 
of center Nick Redondo. Tom McMeekin, 
who is Williams closest competitor for all
conference kicking honors, added the 
conversion and Tech was ahead 7-3 with 
3:17 remaining in the first quarter.
Bethany added another field goal in 
the second quarter after another Tartan 
fumble. Bison defensive end A1 Vergari fell 
on a Pat Counihan bobble at the Tartan 19. 
In Counihans behalf, he never had the ball 
cleanly and was hit while he was losing his 
footing.
Photo by Carl West
The Tartan defense was again up to 
the task as it stopped the Bisons for no 
yardage on three plays. Williams again 
came on, this time to attempt a 37 yarder 
kick. Williamskick sailed to the left but he 
got new life when the Tartans were called 
for offsides on the lay on a highly 
questionable call. Williams tried again, this 
time from the 32, and made the most of 
his second opportunity by drilling the ball 
through the uprights. The kick brought 
Bethany to within one point, 7-6, with 
14:13 remaining in the first half.
Neither team was able to produce any 
offense for the remainder of the half as the 
teams settled into a three downs and kick 
pattern.
Both teams slogged it out on the 
ground in the third quarter. Of the 26 
plays run by both teams in the quarter, 23 
were rushes. Bethany however, did have 
two scoring opportunities.
Their first chance came when they 
took the second half kickoff and moved 
from their own 40 to the Tech 16 on nine 
running plays. The march bogged down at 
the 16 and Williams trotted in to attempt 
another field goal. His 33 yard attempt was 
long enough but sailed wide to the right. 
The Tartan offense did nothing in their 
possession after the field goal and punted. 
Bethany regained possession on their 45 
and moved to the Carnegie 25. The Bisons 
were forced to go to the air to keep the 
drive alive when quarterback Steve 
Skekelik hit flanker Wilson Darwin for a 15 
yard completion on a third and nine 
situation. Williams made yet another 
appearance in the game when the Tartan 
defense stiffened at the 25. His try never 
got past the line of scrimmage as linebacker 
Dave Nackoul blew in to block the 42
yard attempt.
An interesting part of the third quarter 
and for that matter the second half was 
the punting game of the teams. Duquette 
made his collegiate debut as a punter in the 
second half, when he replaced West. 
Duquette took over from West not for 
the reason of kick length but more for the 
fact that he can get his kicks off faster than 
West. Duquette did manage 33 yards on six 
kicks but he was not as effective as Bison 
punter Scott Lanz. Lanzs average was only
36 yards for eight kicks but more import
ant was his placement of his kicks. His 
kicks kept the Tartans pinned in their 
own territory for the entire half including 
one that went out of bounds on theTech 2.
Our offense was limited by the punting 
of Lanz said Gasperella.Lanzs punt that nailed the Tartans on 
their own 2 came early in the fourth 
quarter and almost caused a major turn
about in the game. Duquette attempted to 
punch the ball out from the 2 on a quarter
back sneak but was hit hard on the play 
and fumbled. Bison linebacker John Alfred 
fell on the ball at the Tartan 9 and Bethany 
had a first and goal situation.
Techs defense came through again, 
however, when Ray Moncini and Rick 
Lackner stripped the ball from fullback 
Bill Lisotto and Bob Hantz recovered 
to end the threat.
The, Tartan offense continued to find 
the going rough in the fourth quarter and 
were forced to punt with 4:52 remaining, 
and a 7-6 lead.
Bethany got the ball on their own 43 
after the kick and proceded to end the 
Tartan lead. Passing was the key to the 
drive. Skekelik twice came through on 
third and long situations with clutch pass 
completions. He hit tight end Phil Pest 
with a 16 yarder to move to the Tech 35. 
Skekelik then hit reserve tight end Jack 
Shaffer for 19 yards to move to the Tartan
11. Bethany moved to the Tech 3 before 
being faced with a fourth down situation. Williams came in at this point to attempt a 
20 yard field goal with 1:16 to play. The 
kick was letter perfect and Bethany had a
9-7 lead with 1:15 left.
The Tartans made a last gasp effort but it wasnt enough . Craig Hladik took
the kick following the Williams field goal
and came within one man of breaking the
return all the way, before being dropped at
the Tartan 43. Duquette took the air and
hooked up with OMara for a 24 yard
completion on fourth down to move to the
Bethany 38. Bethany was guilty of pass
interference on OMara on the next play to
put the Tartans out of time outs. An
illegal motion penalty moved Carnegie
back five yards. McMeekin came on to try a
48 yard field goal but it never had a chance
as he. was well short.
UNIVERSITY ORATORY OF 
THE HOLY SPIRIT PARISH
CMU CAMPUS
SATURDAY MASS.......................................................7:00 P.M. - Tech House
SUNDAY MASS.............................10:30 A.AT..  Science Hall (Rm 7500)
DAILY MASS (Mon.-Fri.)...........................................5:00 P.M.  Tech House
Fathers John Walsh or Bob English 
Tech House 5125 Margaret Morrison 621-2911
FAST INEXPENSIVE 
PRINTING
cgiR EPFFLxc
INSTANT PRINTING CENTER
98 Penn Circle West, Corner Penn Ave. E. Liberty 
(Ample Parking in Thorofare Parking Lot)
362-4445
REPORTS  RESUMES  CATALOGS  POSTERS 
LETTERHEADS  BUSINESS CARDS  FLYERS 
OFFICE FORMS  BOOKLETS  SCHEDULES
EARN $10 FOR TAKING A PHYSICAL EXAM...
if you are a healthy MALE, age 21-30, 150-200 pounds. Volunteers 
are needed for Bioavailabiiity Testing Program on absorption rates 
of prescription medications. All Studies are conducted under strict 
medical supervision.
Program involves small blood samples drawn at various 
times throughout the study.
Physical Exams will be given each Thursday between 
9:00 a.m. and 11:00 a.m. in Room 335, Hotel Webster 
Hall.
NEW volunteers will be given $10 for taking our physical exam, in
cluding complete blood chemistries. Pay scale ranges from $50- 
$500, depending upon time requirements of the study.
For Complete Details, Please Call
BIODECISION LABORATORIES, INC.
Room 335, Webster Hall, 441 5 Fifth Avenue 682-2022 
-Or come directly to the Physical Exa(n - 
(PLEASE BRING PROOF OF AGE)
(Do not eat breakfast)

---------------------------------------------------

I MAP , , 
WoNP&zbv WHY 
T/r&W S&MPTQ 
AtAt&THcE CfWEROF-TW C^KT $Han> eerrtR THAW THE p&sr 
0FTHB T&W[...
CMU's Basketball Team did not make the October 20th is^ue of "Sports Illustrated" but 
our off-center center circle did. "And you wonder why your jump shot keeps going off
to one side..." ____________________________________
FREE PREGNANCY 
TESTS
ALLEGHENY WOMEN'S 
CENTER 
MON.-FRI. 9-5 SAT. 8-4
FOR INFO:
362-2920
Love tap.
From one beer lover to another.
Page 10-THE TARTAN-October 21,1975
AMERICAN FAMILY PLANNING 
SERVICES 
LOCAL ABORTION & 
BIRTH CONTROL FACILITIES
215 449 - 2006
Franks Win Coby Elly Zimmerman
After accumulating an undefeated re
cord for the season, Franks All-Stars 
entered the IM Co-rec Volleyball finals 
and defeated all of their closest competi
tors in two games.
The semi-finals started with The Fives 
playing SAE A and Franks All-Stars 
playing , who bumped
out BTP A, last years winners, in the 
quarterfinals.
The Fives easily won their match in 
two games against SAE. At the same 
time Franks All-Stars beat 
in two games. The stage was set for 
the finals with Franks All-Stars competing 
against The Fives.
The Fives took the lead in the first 
game with fine serves by Bill Haddock 
and Bob Ammerman. Franks All-Stars 
made a comeback with Bob Dax spiking 
and Frank Sacco serving.
Both teams volleyed extremely well 
but The Fives had four consecutive servers 
serve into the net. The momentum 
transferred to the All-Stars who finally 
won by the score of 15-11.
In the second game, The Fives who 
were trying a 4-4 strategy found them
selves in precarious positions when the 
All-Stars spiked. Crystal Hoffman was 
able to save several points by returning 
Saccos spikes. The Fives suffered 
when their volleys to the setters, Davina 
Davies and Alrie Christian, were not 
close enough to the net to allow them 
to set good sets to the spikers, Kei!h 
Gordon, Bob Ammerman and Bill 
Haddock. The All-Stars on the other hand
All-Stars Rec Finals
got increasingly more efficient at setting 
and spiking. Mrs. Birdie and Jane 
Fisk set some fine sets to Bob Dax and 
Frank Sacco. The Fives succumbed 
easily with the final score 15-7.
Both finalists were non-fraternity 
teams. Franks All-Stars were composed 
mostly of graduate students, a coach, and 
Mr. Birdies wife. The Fives were half 
undergraduates and half graduates. Four 
of the girls on the team are playing 
Womens Varsity Volleyball.
This year co-rec volleyball ran very 
smoothly with only a few teams forfeiting,
Sports Editor Elly Zimmerman went 
AWOL last weekend, forcing other staff 
members to handle her responsibilities and 
thus explaining the improved appearance 
of this weeks sports pages.
OPINIONBuggy Comments
ST UDEDNDAD
During the past week, Joan Bothwell, 
the Sweepstakes Chairperson, encountered 
considerable difficulty in getting the 1975- 
76 Sweepstakes budget approved by 
Student Government. The budget was 
submitted to the Finance Committee of 
the Student Government and they de
manded some major changes before it 
was approved. An allocation of $250 
for trophies was reduced by 20%, the 
funds requested to cover the costs of 
freeroll practices were cut by more than 
20%, and a $230 allocation for capital 
improvements was tabled until a future 
date. Finally, the committee decided 
that Sweepstakes must provide a greater 
portion of its own budget by raising 
its entry fees.
At first glance, the request for $250 
for buying trophies may sound rather 
excessive  Let it be pointed out that there 
are nine trophy winners in Sweepstakes 
competitionsix for the finalists and 
three for the winners of the design judging. 
These trophies are the only symbols 
of recognition that the winners receive.
During every freeroll practice and 
during the races, several Pittsburgh Police 
officers are on hand to supervise traffic 
control. These police officers must be 
paid for their time and trouble. This 
money comes out of Sweepstakes 
budget. The Finance Committee felt 
that too much money was being requested 
for this use. To lessen this cost they 
required that the number of scheduled 
freeroll practices be reduced. They reason
ed that there arent many new drivers 
this year and that the veteran drivers 
dont need that much practice anyway.
It is doubtful that any of the Commit
tee members actually know how many 
new drivers there are this year or just 
how much effort and practice is required 
to make a eood hue?v driver. Fverv time
a driver is in a buggy, his or her life 
literally depends on how well he or she 
can drive. There is no substitute for 
experience. Drivers need all of the practice 
they can get.
Ms. Bothwell requested funds for 
capital improvements, which were to be 
used to purchase four walkie-talkies and 
a bullhorn. These items would be in
valuable in helping to eliminate many of 
the traffic control problems that have 
plagued Sweepstakes in the past few years. 
The Finance Committee wisely tabled this 
request pending the outcome of an invest
igation to determine if this type of equip
ment is presently available from some 
other campus organization. If this equip
ment is available on campus, there is no 
reason for Sweepstakes to purchase their 
own, especially considering the limited 
amount of usage that it would receive. 
If the equipment is not available it is 
absolutely imperative that this request 
for funds be approved. Using walkietalkies at freeroll practices and at the races 
would be a significant step towards safer 
buggy activities.
Finally the Finance Committee decided 
that Sweepstakes wasnt providing an 
adequate portion of its own budget. 
Sweepstakes has three sources of income 
Student Government funds, entry fees, 
and income from the sale of buggy books. 
The proposed budget had Student Govern
ment providing 50% of the needed funds. 
The Finance Committee felt that this was< 
too much and that their share should be 
smaller. They therefore advised the 
Sweepstakes Chairperson to increase the 
entry fees. The previous entry fee was 
$25 for the first buggy an organization 
entered and $15 for each additional buggy. 
According to the Finance Committee, 
the new .entry fees should be $35 for the 
first buggy and $15 for each additional. | 
Continued on page eleven

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-October 21. 1975-Page 11
TARTANS BOOT TITLE HOPES
Mark Canepa 
The Tartans hope for a run at this 
years PAC title came to a sudden end last 
week as the team was downed 2-1 in a 
home game against Bethany on Tuesday 
and lost a tough road match against Hiram 
on Friday. The Tartans, after the 82 vic
tory against Point Park, looked confident 
as they took the field to face Bethany last 
Tuesday.
Both teams had lost a game: CMU to 
Case Western Reserve and Bethany to 
Hiram. A Tartan victory would have put 
CMU in serious contention for the PAC 
title.
Orienteering
For the third year in a row, however, 
the Tartans could not keep up with 
Bethanys strong attack. The final whistle 
found CMU trailing by one goal.
The CMU goal was scored by Gehman 
early in the first half. Fridays loss against 
Hiram, barring some spectacular results, 
put CMU out of contention.
The Tartans put up a good show, 
closely matching Hiram on shots on goal. 
Three goalsby Gehman, Hordalt and 
Steele-were scored and the ball hit the 
post twice. Still, in the end, the final score 
was Hiram 6, CMU 3.
Buggy Continued
Continued from page ten
one. This would reduce Student Govern
ments share of the cost of Sweepstakes 
to about 41%.
Despite the arguments of the SweepStakes Chairperson, the Finance Committee 
insisted that the entry fee for the first 
buggy must be raised to $35. According 
to the Student Government Constitution 
>>the Finance Committee does not have 
the power or the right to dictate how an 
organization is to provide their share of
the funds. The duties of the Finance 
Committee are listed in the Bylaws of
the Student Government Constitution
under Article III, Section 7, which states
that The Finance Committee shall have
the power to: 1) Question, challenge, and
? recommend to Senate the amendment of
budgets, 2) Recommend fiscal policy
that only enter one buggy. The fees would
be much more equitable if they were
uniform, such as $20 or $25 for each
buggy entered. This would distribute the
costs of the services more evenly. In the future, the Finance Committee
should confine itself to the duties and powers granted to it by the Student
Government Bylaws. It is certain that 
the founders of our Student Government 
did not intend for it to operate as a 
dictatorship.
changes, 3) Subpoena financial records 
involving funds allocated by Student 
Government, 4) Approve the usage of 
surplus funds in an account, and 5) The 
chairperson shall have the power to deny 
the spending of funds in an account.
A quick perusal of this section of the 
Bylaws reveals that the Finance Committee 
has the power only to question, challenge > 
and recommend changes in budgets. 
Despite this, the Finance Committee, 
would not permit the Sweepstakes budget 
to go before the full Senate until the 
Sweepstakes Chairperson agreed to change 
the entry fee. This brings up another 
interesting point since the Sweepstakes 
Chairperson does not have the power to 
change the entry fee. This fee is set in 
the Sweepstakes Rules and can only be 
changed by a majority vote of the buggy 
chairpeople.
This new fee structure, demanded by 
the committee, discriminates more than 
ever against the three or four organizations
Preventive 
Medicine?
Tuesday, Oct. 21 
in Breed Hall 
Margaret Morrison
Sponsored by 
Dept, of Stud't Act.\
by Jon McGrow
The CMU ROTC company held its 
first annual Orienteering Meet Saturaday in 
West Deer Lakes Park. A well attended 
meet, with over 60 contestants represent
ing schools from as far as Baltimore and 
New York. The Advanced Course Compet
ition was won by Weyman from Indiana 
University of Penna. Weyman led his team 
to top honors as IUP swept the Advanced 
division and won the Intermediate class. 
Placing first in the Intermediate division 
was Sabick, of IUP; and the Novice course 
was won by Riddle, whos from West 
Virginia University.
The courses run ranged in length from 
2.3 miles for the Novice to 6.7 for the 
Advanced. The previous days torential 
downpour had left the course rather 
muddy in parts, but there were few com
plaints. One of the contestants from Pitt
stated, The course was very good . It was 
challenging but not impossible.
CMU had 8 runners, and many more 
working up front and behind the scenes to 
make the meet smooth, efficient, safe and 
fun. A few of the poeple who should be re
cognized for their work are Ed Klemencic, 
Chris Pikula, Jerry DiGennero, Desmond 
McKnightv Bill Elm, Ron Heuler, SFC 
Tyronne Adderly and the rest of the MS 
DEPT, instructors.
Orienteeting was explained to me as 
being cross-country running, through the 
woods with a map. Your looking for a 
control point so that you can punch a card, 
and so on until you finish. While this may 
seem very much like registration, if youre 
fast enough you can come away with a 
trophy, as opposed to the former, where 
you may end up with 5 days of 8:30.
B'NAI B'RITH HILLEL-JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
SCHOLAR-IN-RESIDENCE
Dr. Rivka Bar Yosef 
will discuss the 
"Legal, Political, Economic Status of Women"
Thursday, October 23 8 p.m.
Hillel Library - 3rd floor  Oakland J.C.C.
************^********
Also come to Hillel for
ISRAEL NIGHT
Israeli Dancing - beginning 7:30 - Lounge 
Israeli food 
Every Thursday night
315 S. Beliefield Avenue (across from Heinz Chapel)
621-8875
D/SCO
88.3
WRCT GETS 
DOWN FOR 
UNICEF
SATURDAY NIGHT 
OCTOBER 25 
SKIBO BALLROOM 
9 P.M. -1 A.M.
Donation: 25$ With College I.D.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-THE TARTAN-October 21, 1975
Hewlett-Packard representative to demonstrate on campus, 
WED. OCT. 22. 1975
He'll show you how to get the most out of any HP calculator. Just come to 
BOOKSTORE, 10 A.M.  2 P.M. on OCT. 22, 1975
The uncompromising ones.
>
3^5618-? I
ON DEG
i/x SIN COS TAN Iy* Si*-' COS- T*-t
X%y R* e* STO RCL R  P UN LOG to *
ENTER? COct oobAn TrCLXCLR
13B
nDi
Q
n
rm&t&i M*wLTt  *
4.O HOmhOFFytDHTDUL Hty21 fHAOCFArAH $125R00*
4.O HOmhOFFytDHTDUL 
Hty25 fHAOCFArAH tUepUDEEDihO $195R00*
The calculations you face require no less.
Today, even so-called non-technical courses 
(psych, soc, bus ad, to name 3) require a vari
ety of technical calculationscomplicated cal
culations that become a whole lot easier when 
you have a powerful pocket calculator.
Not surprisingly, there are quite a few such 
calculators around, but ours stand apart, and 
ahead. We started it all when we introduced the 
worlds first scientific pocket calculator back in 
1972, and weve shown the way ever since.
4.O HDhHPhDFeUs beP sOO .OUO DUO ePU COmOsFY 
F.O rAUsF er ePU sOHeCL pOCOUDFAeCR 1eF. errOU beP 
FOH.Cehepb beP gUeiDihb meCF rACL AC HeEgOF
AFAvO HDhHPhDFeUs reU seEO FAEO Fe HeEOY Ar OvOUR
OPU Hty21 gOUreUEs Dhh DUAF.EOFAHY hep DCL 
FUAp HDhHPhDFAeCsY ACHhPLACp UOHFDCpPhDU/gehDU 
HeCvOUsAeCs DCL HeEEeC DCFAhep OvDhPDFAeCsR
Its display is fully formatted, so you can choose 
between fixed decimal and scientific notation.
Our HP-25, does all thatand much, much 
more. Its programmable, which means it can 
solve automatically the countless repetitive 
problems every science and engineering student 
faces.
With an HP-25, you enter the keystrokes 
necessary to solve the problem only once. 
Thereafter, you just enter the variables and 
press the Run/Stop key for an almost instant 
answer accurate to 10 digits.
Before you invest in a lesser machine, by all 
means do two things: ask your instructors 
about the calculations their courses require; and 
see for yourself how effortlessly our calculators 
handle them.
See both the HP-21 and HP-25 on display 
today at your bookstore. And ask the HewlettPackard representative to show you just how 
valuable an HP calculator can be.
4TARTNN SKICKED
Sales and service from 172 offices in 65 countries. 
Dept. 658C, 19310 Pruneridge Avenue, Cupertino, CA 95014
61J/
Suggested retail price, excluding applicable state and local taxes 
Continental U.S., Alaska & Hawaii.
