Judy Narosny
Three CMU students, Diallo (Gary 
Scott), Nate Burden, and Debbie Gordon, 
attended the first National Black Political 
Convention in Gary, Indiana March 10-12. 
This was going to be a historical kind of 
thing, so we had to participate, explained, 
Diallo, president of SPIRIT at CMU.
Approximately 4,000 observers were 
part of the convention along with the esti
mated 3,000 delegates who came from 47 
states to attempt the formation of a Black 
political platform. Especially after going 
here for three years, to see so many Black 
people from all over the nation getting 
together, to see that they had that much 
commitment to come together in an out of 
the way place like Gary,was just something 
else, commented Diallo.
The singing of the Black National An
them and speeches by Garys Mayor Rich
ard Hatcher and Jesse Jackson were among 
the most impressive segments of the pro
gram. Both speeches advocated a possible 
third party to answer the needs of minori
ties, since the two major parties seemed to 
be unable to speak for minority groups in 
general and Blacks in particular. Mayor 
Hatchers speech said that Blacks would no 
longer be a hip-pocket constituencey to 
, the two major political parties in the 
United States.
However, Diallo felt that the lack of 
press coverage given the convention was 
indicative of Americas general attitute to
wards Blacks. The papers either by-passed 
the convention or played up its negative 
aspects. They failed to realise that there are 
disagreements in any political convention 
, and that doesnt mean that the convention 
is a failure. They gave more coverage to 
Tricia Nixons wedding than they gave to 
this. I think Americas a damn fool, be
cause Tricia Nixon doesnt have the poten
tial to burn this place down.
Thats what the convention was all 
about - hipping America, and America 
chose to turn it off. A convention like that 
^ impresses white people too. If it wasnt 
impressive, they wouldnt have to black it 
out, stated Diallo.
P/RC To 
Submit Plan
K
By the end of last week, 2100 CMU 
students had signed petitions to establish a 
P1RG chapter on campus. This represents 
{he solid student support which PIRG 
needed before the administration could be 
approached. Preliminary work has already 
been done with administrative officials. Dr. 
Schatz has proved to be very helpful in 
^ continued  page 7
C-MU Students 
At Black 
Convention
PRESIDENT:
Michael Garl (275 votes)
Willie Roy Thompson (196 votes)
E. Scott Kramer (78 votes)
Myron Stavoschak (43 votes)
Others(7 votes)
DIRECTOR, ACADEMIC AFFAIRS 
BOARD:
John Holobinko (365 votes)
Others(11 votes)
UNDERGRADUATE FEMALE RES
IDENTS OF MUDGE AND MOREWOOD 
GARDENS:
Renee Banks (67)
Carol Nemetz (68)
(Full-term)
Rhonda Cohen (50)
Roxanne Seeman (57)
Others (7)
(Half-term)
INDEPENDENT MALE RESIDENTS OF 
E-TOWER, MOREWOOD GARDENS:
Ed Levine (29)
Gary Truxton (14)
Chris Croke (1)
(Full-term, Levine elected)
INDEPENDENT UNDERGRADUATE 
COMMUTERS:
Munro Jackson Grant (70)
Mark D. Green (71)
Bruce Hoffman (57)
Robert Luckie (67)
Edward Simon (53)
(Full-term)
Arthur Bahl (3)
Others (II)
(Half-term)
FRATERNITY MEMBERS:
John Bell (74)
Frank Sacco (72)
(Full-term)
Robert J. Carrick (60)
Donald W. Gregg (59)
(Half-term)
Others (84)
RESIDENTS OF THE HILL DORMS: 
Kerry Greenwald (119)
Marty Hochhauser (17)
(Full-term) ^
Steve Silverstein (15)
Norman Abt (15)
Doug Jones (15)
(TIED for the two other full-term seats 
and one half-term seat.)
Larry Bayer (14)
Others (114)
(Half-term seat)
GRADUATE STUDENTS 
Anita Bell (14)
Phil Koltum (5)
Larry Robinson (14)
Gregg Woodring (5)
(Full-term)
Gerry Glaser 
Jackie Whitney 
Zane Swanson 
George Hannah 
George Weldon 
Jack Dills 
Chuck Weinstock 
George Hicks
(Tied for one half-term seat)
Need Cited: 
Health Services 
For Women
The inability to get the type of medical 
counseling and services desired is causing as 
much consternation on college campuses as 
it is for the general population.
A major difference is that the students 
are pushing for health care reform-through 
recognized campus associations-with col
lege administrators. In some instances, con
siderable gains have been made. In constrast, the average American lacks the organ
izational framework to accomplish similar 
objectives.
This is one of the findings of a written 
questionnaire directed to 100 college stu
dent leaders in different parts of the coun
try.
The survey was conducted for PARKMED, a New York City out-patient abort
ion facility, to determine whether it is 
apathy or ignorance of adequate birth 
control measures that is responsible for the 
sizeable percentage of abortions and the 
concommitant rising incidence of venereal 
disease among college age youngsters. This 
group may possibly account for one-third 
of all abortions performed in New York 
City.
The results of the survey, conducted in 
December 1971, reveal that 57 percent of 
the respondents were displeased with exist
ing university health clinic services. The 
lack of contraceptive counseling was cited 
repeatedly as a condition to be remedied.
This was also found to be a criticism 
among the 43 percent who reported that 
the student body was basically pleased 
with its universitys health clinic services.
About this, Mrs. Ardis Danon, RN, 
PARKMENs Assistant Administrator, 
continued  page 16
Youth Temperance Week
On March 11, 1972, Governor Milton J. 
Shapp issued a proclamation declaring the 
week of April 23-29th YOUTH TEMPER
ANCE EDUCATION WEEK. In an effort 
to combat the use of alcohol, narcotics, 
and tobacco, and to insure the future of 
the nation, Gov. Shapp advised an intense 
educational approach to these ever in
creasing problems.
Placing a strong importance on the 
youth of today-as the leaders of tomorrow, 
Shapp stressed the necessity for a broader 
understanding of the harmful effects of 
alcohol, narcotics, and tobacco. The 
responsibility of educating the youth of 
society lies with the older citizen. The first 
step towards the education is total abstin
ence from these three vices, according to 
Shapp.
Urging every citizen to be aware of and 
to given special attention to the temper
ance education of the youth. Governor 
Shapp was most considerate in proclaiming 
Youth Temperence Week, the week follow
ing Spring Carnival.
GARL
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
Michael Garl, Second Term President
WINS
ELECTION RESULTS
March 21, 1972
Volume 72
Number 8

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2 - THE TARTAN - Tuesday, March 21, 1972
Letters:
Editor:
The traditional grading system has seri
ous educational disadvantages. From the 
beginning of a course it establishes an ad-, 
versary relation between the professor and 
students. The grading requirement often 
forces a professor to fashion a course in 
directions not designed to optimize the 
goals of the course. Students often feel 
forced to choose courses on the basis of 
probable grade rather than on the basis of 
their educational needs. And, after all this, 
the grade received may tell more about the 
professors grading habits than the stu
dents achievement.
On the other hand there are genuine 
reasons for recognizing the capabilities and 
aehffevements of students. It is rational that 
external agencies, graduate schools and 
others, desire such information. It is a very 
human desire (whether some call it a failing 
or not) for students to desire explicit re
cognition of their accomplishments over 
and beyond a set of pass grades.
The answer, it seems to me, is to de
couple the grading system from courses. 
Let all courses be credit/no entry. Then 
establish outside the course framework a 
method of grading students on their ability 
to apply and integrate what they have 
learned. This is what really counts, after 
all, rather than the ability to pass a succes
sion of course tests.
A specific proposal would be to require 
each student to submit a set of projects 
(perhaps two a year) which would be 
judged by at least two faculty members, 
who would also interview the student on 
his work. Such projects might be extended 
term papers or might involve community, 
campus, or summer activities. In place of 
one such project departments might re
quire a comprehensive examination de
signed to test the students ability to inte
grate his knowledge in some area.
I believe such a grading system would be 
ar more meaningful than the traditional 
me. The projects would allow students to 
lemonstrate in exciting ways their ability
o use their skills and knowledge. While 1 
lave had the H&SS college in mind, the 
general ideas may be valid for the whole 
University.
Lincoln Wolfstein 
Professor of Physics
iditor:
1 have received lots of feedback from 
ny letter printed in the TARTAN 
v2/10/72) regarding the desirability of 
some student recognition of good teaching. 
Students and faculty alike are very favorabe toward the idea.
Therefore, the Academic Affairs Board 
las been working on a proposal which is 
entatively scheduled for next year (pendng senate approval).
The proposal is this:
Each student is permitted 3 votes, 
le/she may vote for any teacher she/he has 
ver had at the University. There is no 
estriction on voting only for professors 
ou had last year or last semester. This is
o provide a time lapse so that students can 
udge more objectively. I might not vote 
or a professor I just had who really made 
me work, but a year later when I am in a 
t>etter position to appreciate how much I 
ictually learned, I might want to vote to 
eward that teacher for teaching ability.
Freshmen will have to judge on the basis of 
their one years experience. In this way a 
teacher is not rewarded for teaching a good 
semester, but for good teaching ability in 
general.
Anyone who teaches regardless of facul
ty status is eligible to be voted on. This 
includes graduate assistants.
The Faculty-Course Evaluation will be 
used as a nominating device. A list will be 
published of all teachers who receive a rat
ing of 4.0 or above. Write-in candidates will 
also be permitted with a maximum of three 
write-ins per voter.
The voting will be evaluated in the fol
lowing manner: Votes for a teacher will be 
counted. This number will be placed over 
the number of students that person has 
taught over the last four years. This will 
provide a percentage of the number of stu
dents who actually voted for that teacher 
over the number of students who could 
possibly have voted for that person. This 
gets around the problem of large classes 
VS. small classes, and similar hairy messes.
The top five percentage-wise will be awarded plaques at a special dinner to which 
students will be invited. The dinner will be 
held off-campus at a large hotel or restau
rant.
This is tentatively scheduled to begin 
next spring semester during registration or 
pre-registration where we will set up one 
more table to go to! Votes will be tabu
lated and the dinner will be planned for 
sometime later.
Terri Zalus/ca 
Director of Academic Affairs
Editor:
1 want to urge all wage-earners on the 
CMU campus NOT to pay their income tax 
this year.
Tax money could be used in a lot of 
ways. Right now over half the federal bud
get goes for war-past, present and future. 
The government is spending billions of 
your dollars for guns, destroyers, bombers, 
Polaris submarines, napalm, the ABM, and 
chemical and biological weapons that are 
polluting the environment without even be
ing usedjust improperly stored. Mean
while, programs to aid the poor, provide 
full employment and balance our economy 
are eliminated, cut back or restrained from 
being effective.
You have a right to conscientiously ob
ject to this misuse of your taxes. There are 
several ways you can protest:
1) Send a letter of protest along with 
your 1040 formeven if you get a comple
te refundwith copies to lawmakers.
2) Hold back $5 of your Federal In
come Tax as a token protest.
3) refuse to pay, or demand a refund of, 
50% or All of your taxes until the govern
ment restructures its priorities to meet the 
needs and wishes of the majority. You can 
do this right on the 1040 formwith a 
War Tax Credit on line 22-or file form 
843 for a Refund of Taxes Illegally, Erro
neously, or Excessively Collected.
4) Dont file a 1040 at all.
What are the risks? Most tax resisters 
receive no penalty at all. A few have had 
their bank accounts attached to the amount of taxes owed; only a handful have 
gotten minor fines or light jail sentences. 
The IRS hates to publicize the fact of tax 
resistance by prosecuting offenders. Many 
citizens have been refusing war taxes suc
cessfully for eight or ten years.
By refusing your taxes you are letting 
the government know you oppose its poli
cy, and you are gumming up the machinery 
that continues to work against human 
needs and priorities.
A task force is organizing on campus to 
help publicize the fact and the methods of 
war ta^x resistance. Interested students, fac
ulty, and employees are encouraged to call 
me, Pat Spaeth (422-7438) about this 
group. For general tax information, call me 
or call or visit the Friends Peace Center, 
4836 Ellsworth Avenue, 683-2669. Yours 
for peace.
Patricia Spaeth
Even if you dont have a taxable income, 
you surely know someone who does!
Editor:
Long winded writers I abhor,
And glib, prolific chatters;
Give me the ones who tear and gnaw 
Their hair and pens to tatters: 
Who find their writing such a chore 
They only write what matters.
Anonymous
Editor:
I would like to address an answer to Joe 
Harsh, self-appointed spokesman for the 
fraternity system (regarding his letter-to-- 
the-editor, 3/14/72).
Mr. Harsh: Get your head out of your 
ass! Is it Just fraternity people that make 
this campus look like the greater Pittsburgh 
garbage dump? Is it Just fraternity men 
who guzzle Boones Farm, eat peanuts and 
crush the shells under their feet, blow dope 
and roll beer cans down the aisles? Did you 
ever trip into the ballroom right after a 
T.G.? Its a pigstye. Of course, the frater
nity brothers made it so.
It is not Just Us, Mr. Harsh, everyone on 
this campus is a pigexcuse me everyone 
on this campus is humanwere not perfect 
nor do we claim to be. But we will not 
accept the blame for what everyone else on 
this campus practices: littering, boozing 
and jaggin around. We call ourselves broth
ersand we try to be, sometimes not suc
cessfully. Would you admit the same?
I understand your complaint, but disa
gree as to the accused. I wish to change the 
situation-but that needs a little brother
hood. Lets try to start it on this whole 
campus.
MichaelM. Stevens 
House Manager 
Alpha Tau Omega
ATTENTION
The date of TARTAN elections has been 
changed to WEDNESDAY, April 5th at 
4:30 instead of THURSDAY, April 6th. 
All hopefuls should stop in at Room 50 
Skibo sometime before vacation.
Editor:
We are conducting an unsubsidized, ac
tion-oriented study of the character and 
extent of political repression in American 
colleges and universities today. We are writ
ing to campus newspapers throughout the 
United States in an effort to locate stu
dents and teachers who are having difficult
ies in obtaining financial support, finding 
employment, or obtaining contract renew
als or tenure because of their political ac
tivities.
We believe the widely-publicized cases 
involving radical activists at Stanford, 
Washington, Southern Illinois, San Diego, 
and Vermont, represent only a small frac
tion of the total number of instances in 
which efforts are being made to force radi
cal teachers and students out of American 
colleges and universities. If this proves to 
be the case, we hope to convene a national 
Conference of Academic Repression in St. 
Louis in late April or early May. In order 
to make it an effective working conference 
it is important that we hear from concer
ned teachers and students as soon as pos
sible.
Those involved in or aware of cases of 
political repression are asked to contact us 
immediately and, if possible, to enclose 
details. Write: Department of Sociology, 
Washington University, St. Louis, Missouri, 
63130.
J. David Colfax, Ph. D.
Associate Professor
Editor-in-Chief.............................Jan Rosen
News Co-Editors ..........................Frank Cox
Jeff Ganek
Politics..........................................Jim Slivka
Features Editor...........................Tom Davis
Sports Editor..............................Jude Heller
Photography Editor.................Neal Binstock
Business Manager.........................Alice Bright
Entertainment....................Stephen Saunders
Julio Vera
Entertainment Staff.............Stephen Hamm
Janet Classman, Walter Koehler 
Terence Palso
News Staff...............................John Agatston
Anne Friedman, Mina Gerall 
Steve Jurman, Jon Manon 
Betsy Piez, Bob Stern 
Cliff Stevens, Robin Reiter 
Judy Narosny
Features Staff........Leslie Bram, Marc Field
Sports Staff..............Chuck Bond, Dan Buis
Lauren Hutton, Allen Kohan 
Jim Powers, Jon Swierzewski
Photography Staff.....................Elliot Arons
Jay Caras, Jim Hermann 
Roger Lawrence, Ed Levine
Copy Staff.................................Leslie Bram
Sandy Preuhs, Suzanne Bozzo
Advertising...............................Chris Sanders
Mike Swartzlander
Published every Tuesday during the aca
demic year at Carnegie-Mellon University, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 15213. Editorial 
and Business offices in Skibo 50, Carneg
ie-Mellon University, Telephone (412) 
682-4577.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN, Tuesday, March 21, 1972 - Page 3
Editor:
According to the Womens Dormitory 
Council minutes of March 13, 1972, Mudge 
Graduate House has been approved as a 
co-ed living facility and may therefore in
clude undergraduate men during the aca
demic year of 1972-1973.
As a graduate student living in Mudge 
House and intending to live there next 
year, I object to the placement of under
graduates in a graduate house. It is analagous to permitting high school students to 
live in the undergraduate dormitories.
There is ample room for undergraduate 
students in the other houses on campus. I 
consider it important that one have be left 
secure for the Geritol Set.
Diana Connan 
English
Ms. Connan:
I regret that you finej it impossible to 
get along with people who are at most five 
years younger than you. You are excluding 
from your life a lot of potentially im
portant people merely because of their age. 
It is truly a sad state of affairs when such 
insignificant differences become barriers 
between people.
We youths are told to learn from our 
elders, to follow their example. I hope we 
do not learn to accept your absurd preju
dices. jr
Editor:
In the March 14 issue of the TARTAN 
your sports editor, Jude Heller, wrote a 
lengthy editorial in which she discussed the 
safety regulations that are being used in the 
Buggy competition this year. This letter is 
a reply to her editorial.
Ms. Heller had a great deal to say about 
how incredible the safety procedures 
are. She went on to say that safety is 
being pushed to absurd limits. She said 
that she was in no position to place any 
moral judgements on past tragedies when 
she mentioned last years serious accident. 
I agree with her. I also think that shes in 
no position to pass judgement on what 
makes a buggy safe. The construction and 
racing of buggies is a complicated and 
serious activity to which students devote 
literally hundreds of hours every year. 
These students are the buggy chairmen and 
their helpers; the same men who wrote the 
safety regulations under which they will 
practice and compete. These safety regula
tions are designed to eliminate as much as 
possible any-hazard from driving a buggy 
or bike.
I do not challenge Jude Hellers know
ledge of IM football standings. She is in a 
position to know the facts about IM foot
ball. But I do think that she is in no posi
tion to say that buggy chairmen know 
nothing about what it takes to make a 
buggy safe. But then Ms. Heller is an Edi
tor, and the purpose of existence for all 
Editors is to pass judgement on issues 
about which they are at least 95 percent 
ignorant. (If someone is less than 95 per
cent and more than 75 percent ignorant 
about any subject he is a Columnist; any
one less than 75 percent ignorant about 
any subject is an Expert and Experts have 
better things to do than work on news
papers.)
Ms. Heller went on to comment about 
the deplorable condition of the buggy 
course with respect to pot holes. She said 
that all those safety regulations arent 
worth shit without good road conditions. 
To the best of my knowledge no accident 
in the past three years has been caused by a 
pothold. But 1 do agree that the course 
desperately needs to be repaved and that 
repaving it would make the races safer. The
safety regulations, however, are especially 
important to have when the road condi
tions are as bad as they are.
The Sweepstakes Committee is now 
doing everything they know how to do to 
get the road paved. The Administration too 
has made efforts in the past to have the 
road paved, though I agree that their ef
forts need to be doubled and re-doubled 
until they can get the road paved. If the 
Administration sincerely wants to make 
the buggy races safe and is willing to put 
pressure on other people than students to 
do so then they can do no greater service 
than to get that road paved.
The buggy competition has been called 
the most worthwhile of any extracurri
cular activity. Buggy races are beautiful; 
they represent a degree of devotion and 
team effort that is understood only by 
those who have spent the untold number 
of hours of work that go into building and 
pushing a buggy or bike. Buggy races are 
NOT inherently dangerous. Considerable 
effort has been expended this year to try 
to make Ms. Hellers prediction of three 
accidents as wrong as possible. But I dont 
think that effort was helped by a Sports 
Editor who attacks safety regulations she 
doesnt understand. Her words should be 
directed to Pete Flagherty and the Pitts
burgh Road-Paving Bureaucracy.
Don Dietrich
Safety Inspector
Master Dietrich:
I laugh at your statement that an editor 
is 95% ignorant about that which he/she 
writes. It is you who is ignorant about the 
very competent TARTAN staff. Although 
Ive never built a buggy, Ive done some 
research about how they operate. Obvious
ly, you have done no such research as you 
are totally ignorant about an editors posi
tion. Also, if you check your facts, one of 
SAEs bike accidents was specifically 
caused by a pothole last year. Using correct 
editorial procedure, you would have proof
read your letter and realised the very neat 
way in which you placed both feet in your 
mouth.
Ms. Jude Heller,
Sports Editor
Personals:
Tripping Pterodactyls Got You Down? If
so, the Free Mexican Air Force can help 
you. Flights leave on alternate Fridays at 4 
am. from Panther Hollow "ugga bugga."
Big Bird is comingWatch for sales.
Joe: Don't despair! The vernal equinox is
at hand. Love, the Girls at 713.
MJG: Congrats! The party will be very
soon.
After-Senate Dinner Club is on the rise.
Les, Jude, Mike, Rob, Mina, Steve, Jeff,
Frank - thanks for making the past few 
weeks in the office bearable, even fun! I 
love you all, jr.
Classified Ads=
1967 Austin Healy 3000good body, me
chanically excellent, new Michelins, extras, 
inspectedasking $1350. Call 364-9070.
Translations: French to English. Telephone
391-9225.
Housemate Wanted. Own bedroom. Fur
nished $55/mo. plus utilities, 4/18/5 
(Squirrel Hill) 521-0556.
Wanted to sublet: one bedroom furnished
apartment for June, July and, perhaps, Au
gust. Write Bob Houck, 5316 So. Dorches
ter, no. 415, Chicago, Illinois, 60615 be
fore March 17.
Unusual Opportunity to study film-making
in the "City of Eternal Spring." Limited 
enrollment and non-structured course stim
ulate individual development. Every 
student makes his own film.
Ten week summer workshop begins 
June 8. $750 plus film costs. Pan American 
film institute, Apartado 1106, Cuernavaca, 
Morelos, Mexico.
Girl needed to act in porno flick. This is
for a Film Art project. Call Tom Lombardo 
621-4030 ext 1C.
High level managerial position open in one
of the largest newspapers on campus. Cel
ery in very low tax bracket. No experience 
necessary. Send resume to Box 17 Skibo or 
apply in person Room 50 Skibo, advertis
ing department.
Free Lance Analysis. Services include re
search design, sampling, questionnaire con
struction, data processing, statistical analy
sis, report. Telephone: 391-9225.
Apartment summer sublet with option on
the lease. Shadyside, walking distance from 
CMU. Furnished, carpeted, utilities inclu
ded. $175. Call 683-6730.
Spare time modeling assignments available
in promotional, fashion, and photographic 
areas. No experience necessary. Top sala
ries. Write A&R Associates, Box 7220, 
Oakland Station, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213.
FOUND: one bassett hound, brown with
white nose - wandering around campus 
since March 15th. Call security.
Are you a faculty member leaving Pitts
burgh for the summer? CMU senior student 
couple wishes to maintain and care for 
your home, May-August, references avail
able. Call Frank or llene, 363-4286, even
ings.
Choose your Future, Your Decision, be a
pilot or Navigator in Your Air Force. Call 
Sgt. Dick Allen for details at 644-5837.
Rommate wanted to share 2-bedroom, un
furnished apt. in Shadyside. Call Joanne 
683-7758, CMU ext 341.
WORK FOR...
WE WON'T PAY YOU ANY...
INQUIRE ADVERTISING DEPARTMENT
ROOM SO SKIBO

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4 - THE TARTAN - Tuesday, March 21, 1972
Announcements:
The Philadelphia chapter of Woman's Na
tional Abortion Action Council will spon
sor a regional conference March 25 at Tem
ple University from 10:00 am. to 2:00 pm. 
in the Student Activities Center. The pur
pose of this conference is to plan acitvities 
for May 1 through 6, National Abortion 
Action week.
The conference will include films, as 
well as organizational and constituency 
workshops. There will be a registration fee 
of one dollar. For further information con
tact: Philadelphia WONAAC, 1115 Walnut 
Street, Philadelphia, 19107. Phone 
WA2-0381.
Mail orders are now being accepted for
"HAIR," the world-acclaimed musical, 
which opens for a five day run at the 
Nixon Theatre on Wednesday, April 12. 
Ticket prices are $8.00, $6.00, $4.00, 
$2.00 for evenings and Sunday Matinee; 
$7.00, $5.00, $4'00, and $2.00 for Satur
day Matinee. The schedule for performan
ces is Wednesday, Thursday, Saturday ev
enings at 8:30, Friday evening at 6:00 and 
10:00, Saturday and Sunday matinee at 
2:30 pm. Those seeking tickets should send 
a stamped self-addressed envelope along 
with their check or money order and 
should specify alternate dates. "HAIR" has 
proved to be a milestone in the American 
musical theatre. To avoid disappointment, 
tickets should be ordered now.
A meeting will be held on Tuesday March
21 at 7 pm. at the "New Image" NAACP 
Office, 2203 Wylie Avenue, corner of Wy
lie Avenue and Kirkpatrick Street in the 
Hill District, with all persone interested in 
working as Coordinators with the "New 
Image" Student Alliance. College Students 
and Community Activists are urged to at
tend.
Lutheran Campus Ministry in Pittsburgh
/vill host a Community Easter Service at 
he Heinz Memorial Chapel on the Univer
sity of Pittsburgh Campus on Easter Sun
day, April 2, beginning at 6:00 am. Wor
ship leaders will be The Rev. Charles W. 
Carlson and The Rev. J. Paul Bales, Luther
an Campus pastors serving the campuses in 
the Pittsburgh area.
A declaration of life: kids. The horrors of
pollution. Puppet shows. Scrap paper. Pov
erty. Charlie Chaplin film. Hunger. Water 
colors. Lead poisoning. Murals. Dope ad
dicts. Tours of the White House. The Capi
tol. The offices of Senators Ribicoff and 
Long. Representative Wilbur Mills.
This will be the Children's March for 
Survival.
There will be no violence, no disruption 
of traffic. The children will come to Wash
ington, March 25, to learn about the gov
ernment, to enjoy themselves and to let the 
public and Congress see them as victims of 
repressive legislation. The children will tell 
the American people what they need.
The Children's March for Survival will 
be a declaration of life: the life of a child.
Nancy Reeves, author of "Womankind Be
yond the Stereotype," will speak Wed
nesday night, March 22 at 8:30 in room 
324 of the Cathedral. (Pitt). Thursday 
March 23, Ms. Reeves will be available for 
discussion groups at McCormack Hall 
Lounge, 1-3:30.
Everybody Talks About The War-but some
people are actually doing something about 
it. By refusing to pay taxes you can help 
gum up the war machine. Come and learn 
more at a meeting March 21, 7:30 pm. 46 
Skibo.
Betty Friedan, leader of the Women's Lib
eration Movement and founder of NOW 
(National Organization for Women), will 
speak in the Duquesne Union ballroom on 
Tuesday, March 21, at 8:30 pm. Her ap
pearance at Duquesne is sponsored by the 
Union's Forum Committee. Miss Friedan's 
best-selling book, "The Feminine Mys
tique," is generally regarded as being the 
leading contribution to today's feminist 
movement in America. The talk is free and 
open to the public.
The men ai: Western Penitentiary desperate
ly need good reading material for the pri
son library. Black literature and history are 
especially important. Any books that mem
bers of the CMU community can contrib
ute to the library will be greatly appre
ciated. Help the men at Western Penn to 
help themselves through education. Books 
are being collected at The TARTAN Of
fice, Room 50, Skibo.
Golf try-outs: March 20,21,23,24. Will
leave from the Gym at 12:15 pm. Check 
with Mr. William Rogers, Coach.
Varsity athletes: Pick up varsity awards 
in the Athletic Office, Gym 102, as soon as 
possible.
Scholarship: Alpha Phi Omega, the nation
al service fraternity, is again offering the 
Kent O. Shaffer Memorial Scholarship. 
Open to any undergraduate men except the 
brothers and pledges of A Phi 0, this schol
arship is awarded to the applicant who best 
exemplifies the ideals of Alpha Phi Omega. 
Applications and additional information 
may be obtained from Don Gregg, Box 771 
(campus mail) Application deadline is April
7.
The African Affairs Committee of the
"New Image" NAACP-Pittsburgh invites 
the public to a Sharpsville Day Rally on 
Sunday March 19, 1972. This meeting will 
take place at Freedom Church on Freedom 
Corner, St. Brigid-St. Benedict the Moor 
Church at Crawford and Centre Avenues, 
starting at 7:30 pm. Speakers, Choirs, and 
Film on Repressive Conditions of South 
Africa will be presented. Speakers include: 
Mr. Bernard Ferras of Southern Africa; Mr. 
William (Bouie) Hayden, contender for the 
14th Congrassional District seat; and Mr. 
Joseph Rhodes, who has visited South Af
rica and is currently campaigning for the 
24th Legislative District seat.
On February 25-27 in New York City the
Student Mobilization Committee hosted a 
National Student Antiwar Conference, at
tended by over 1300 antiwar activists from 
30 states. After 2 days of political debate 
the conference delegates voted overwhelm
ingly to endorse the call for mass demon
strations on April 22 in New York and Los 
Angeles. By endorsing this proposal parti
cipants in the conference reaffirmed the 
SMC s position that the was is not over; 
indeed, the air war is at an all time high; 
and that massive peaceful action is the best 
strategy for getting all the troops, planes, 
bombs, and war material OUT NOW.
Student Government Meeting, Tuesday,
March 21. 4:30, Staff Cafeteria. All Sena
tors must attend. Meeting open to campus.
An ACS (American Chemical Society-Student Affiliate) meeting will be held Wed
nesday, March 22, probably at 8:00 or 
8:30 pm. in Science Hall 7500. Check 
Chem. Office for details. Topic: New Stu
dies in the Development of Bread. Refresh
ments will be served.
"The Shafer Report: What to do About
Marijuana," a unique nation-wide tele
phone press conference examining the re
port of the National Commission on Mari
juana and Drug Abuse, will be broadcast 
Wednesday, MArch 22 at 9:00-10:00 pm. 
on Channel 13, WQED.
The Commission, headed by former 
Pennsylvania Governor Raymond P. Sha
fer, will present the results of its year-long 
study of marijuana.
Governor Shafer and members of the 
Commission will answer questions directed 
to them by prominent reporters across the 
nation via special telephone circuits to the 
studies of WCNY-TV, Syracuse, N.Y.
The Shafer Commission report culmin
ates a massive study of the medical, socio
logical and legal aspects surrounding the 
use of marijuana. According to Shafer, the 
Commission "will go where the facts lead 
us, and we are going to make recommenda
tions accordingly." Several of these recom
mendations will be made on the program.
The Commission was established under 
the comprehensive drug abuse prevention 
and control act of 1970. President Nixon 
appointed the commission in January of
1971 and they began operation the follow
ing month.
Student Senate Meeting, TODAY, March
21 at 4:30 p.m. in the Wherrett Room.
The National Labor Relations Board, a ma
jority of whose members have recently 
been appointed by President Nixon, is 
seeking an injunction to prohibit boycotts 
by the United Farm Workers.
If successful, Agribusiness, Nixon and 
the NLRB will destroy the humane and 
decent living conditions the UFWOC is be
ginning to bring to farmworkers through
out the country.
You can help. AI Rojas will tell you 
how, Tuesday 7:30 Room 45 Skibo.
The Commuter Club wishes to announce
that it has collected $1.22 for the construc
tion of a bus shelter on Forbes and Morewood.
Summer Work-Study: Students interested
in and eligible for summer work-study pro
gram, please come to the Financial Aid 
Office, 210 Warner Hall before April 10 to 
complete an application and arrange for an 
interview. In order to apply, a student 
must have already completed a Parent's 
Confidential Statement for the 1972-73 ac
ademic year.
Food Service is sponsoring a special Easter
Dinner Thursday night, March 23 in Skibo, 
Vlorewood, and Mudge dining rooms. The 
main entrees will be Shish-Kabobs and 
Country-Smoked Baked Ham. Plan to at
tend this festive dinner!
The public is invited to an introductory
lecture on the technique of Transcendental 
Meditation as taught by Maharishi Mahesh 
Yogi. Students' International Meditation 
Society will present this free lecture on 
Tuesday, March 21, at noon in the Multi
purpose Room of the Hunt Library, and at
8 pm in Scaife Auditorium. The lecture 
will include information on physiological 
research published in the February 1972 
issue of Scientific American.
The Renaissance and Baroque Society will
present the Antiqua Players in concert on 
Saturday, March 25 at 8:30 pm. in Antoni
an Hall, Carlow College.
films
CAMPUS
WILD HORSES OF FIRE. Film Arts. 
Thursday, March 23. 4:30, 7:00,9:30 pm. 
Porter Hall 100. Admission: Film Arts 
Ticket.
PITT
STEPS TOWARDS A NEW CONSCIOUS
NESS. Pangborn Film Club. Tuesday, 
March 21. 8:00 pm.'Benedum Auditorium. 
Free.
LES BICHES. UCIS. Wednesday, March 
22. 8:30 pm. 120 Common Facilities. Free.
BEGGARS OPERA. Pangborn Film Club. 
Saturday, March 25. 8:15 pm. 120 Com
mon Facilities. Admission: $.50.
EL CONDOR; WILD IN THE STREETS; 
ROYAL HUNT OF THE * SUN; THE 
GOOD, THE BAD, AND THE UGLY. Spe
cial Programs. Saturday, March 25. 12:00 
pm. 120 Common Facilities. Free.
COMMUNITY
THE BANK DICK. Starring W.C. Fields. 
Oakland Co-Op. Friday, March 24. 7:00, 
9:00 pm. Admission: $1.00.
OLYMPIA (PART II). Carnegie Lecture 
Hall. Sunday, March 26. Free.
TELEVISION
VIBRATIONS. With Marcel Marceau and 
Lar Lubovitch. Wednesday, March 22. 9:00 
pm. Channel 13.
AUGUST STRINDBERG. NET Playhouse 
Biography. Starring Max Von Syndow. 
Thursday, March 23. 8:30 pm. Channel 13.
POTEMKIN. Directed by Serge Eisenstein. 
Film Odyssey. Friday, March 24 at 8:30 
pm. on Channel 16. Saturday, March 25 at 
8:00 pm. on Channel 13.
Prints & Paintings
by Doni Silver
LUTHERAN UNIVERSITY CENTER 
4515 Forbes
MON. - FRI. 9 a.m. - 5 p.m.
FRI. & SAT. 9 p.m. - 1 e.m.
WHY START..,!?! 
? AT THE BOTTOM!
when you can start EXECUTIVE ROW 
as a pilot or navigator in the . . .
. . . UNITED STATES AIR FORCE . . .
? good pay
? steady advancement
? personal satisfaction
... ARE JUST A FEW BENEFITS . . . 
open to you as a commisioned offi
cer on the Aerospace team. For the 
details: ... CONTACT:
SGT. DICK ALLEN ... AT 644-5837

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN, Tuesday, March 21, 1972 - Page 5
Hot Dog Strike Settled, 
Simon Fears Union Spread
Anne Friedman
The 16 day strike was settled at the 
Original Hot Dog Shop, Monday, March 
13. In a TARTAN interview, Sid Simon, 
the owner, described the strike as a huge 
nightmare. At night, he said,I used to 
pinch myself, unsure that it was real. He 
feels that his shop was the test case, and 
that many similar eruptions will take place 
nexr fall in Oakland.
The power of the strike greatly aston
ished Simon. He was amazed at the great 
following of students to the cause. What 
disturbed him was the fact that many of 
the students did not know both sides of 
the situation. It seems to me,he 
claimed,that students will follow any 
cause just to get involved in something. 
He said that the strikers and students 
blocked his door and would not let in 
customers. Simon referred to this as legal 
extortion as his employees were depriving 
him of money that he normally could 
make. Finally it was a case of bankruptcy 
that made him give in to the strike.
Mr. Simon also had some negative things 
to say about Pitt. According to him, the 
University took sides. Many calls to the 
chancellor to remove the signs pasted over 
the university did not bring any results 
until the strike was over. Mr. Simon feels 
that Pitt is a state university, and didnt 
have the right to take sides on the issue.
What saddens him is the fact that in the 
long run the students will be affected per
sonally by the unionization of small restau
rants, because as wages go up, prices will 
follow.
Simon offered answers to many of the 
strikers. Workers walked out complaining 
that shortages in the cash register were 
being taken out of their pay checks. Simon 
said that it is a common practice of restau
rants in the area to deduct the shortage 
from workers wages. The cause of the 
shortage, whether it is wrong change, incor
rect addition, or stealing does not matter, 
for under union laws the case is not much 
different. The same system still exists ex
cept the cash register is checked more fre
quently.
To the grievance of no breaks, Mr. Si
mon answered that he had no need to give 
specific breaks because they came about 
naturally. The restaurant business is a fluc
tuating business that runs incycles. When 
there are slow periods, such as the middle 
of the afternoon, the employees can take 
breaks then. If there are no customers, 
Simon said, then he doesnt mind if em
ployees relax.
He also stated that the accusation that 
he forced employees into a 12 hour shift 
was false. Eight or nine years ago the shift 
existed, but was eliminated. Only one man 
works a 12 hour shift, and it is out of 
choice. Mr. Simon said that they even work 
out the schedule in order to accommodate 
this man.
Mr. Simon also gave his viewpoint con
cerning free food for the employees. He 
said that the system in the store was such
that the men can eat all the food they 
want, mark it down, and pay 50 percent of 
the price. What actually occurred, the ow
ner stressed, was that only 5 percent of the 
food eaten was being marked down. He 
explained to me that he never pressed the 
point so actually the employees were get
ting free food.
In reference to the complaint of dis
crimination against blacks and women, Mr. 
Simon answered that he has had a black 
man working for him for a number of 
years, and has the most responsible job of 
any employee. He stated that he had an
other black man working full time, who 
quit on his own a few months ago. Con
cerning women, Mr. Simon said that when 
there was a beef house in the back, the 
majority of workers were women. How
ever, when the two places merged this prac
tice stopped. He explained that he doesnt 
think the atmosphere of the place at night 
is right for a woman, because it attracts a 
rough crowd from the bars. During the 
World War II he employed women, but it 
was a touchy situation. Mr. Simon gave me 
a demonstration of the tight quarters be
hind the counter, giving the indication that 
with men and women working side by side, 
sexual encounters have arisen.
When Mr. Simon commented on the vio
lence between his son and the striker, he 
said that he didnt know who struck the 
first blow, but he could understand the 
emotion in his 18 year old son, who was 
trying to defend his fathers business. He 
also stated that the man with whom the 
blows were struck had stopped working 
there 4 or 5 months ago.
Mr. Simon finally expressed his views 
concerning unions. He stated that unions 
take over little businesses and squeeze as 
much as they can out of the owner. His 
position, he feels, was reduced to a mana
ger, and after 11 years invested in work, 
time, and money, he wonders if it was 
worth it all.
P&S Thefts
Betsy Piez
Remember the rash of thefts in the 
Painting & Sculpture Department last year? 
Well, once again, this year, someone has 
been helping himself to work displayed in 
hall shows, and by now there must be some 
impressive free private collections being 
amassed somewhere.
According to Dr. Orville Winsand, head 
of the department, work has been stolen 
from the last two shows, on drawing and 
one photograph
No one knows who does this, or where 
they come from, but the P&S Department 
implores everyone on this campus to 
respect work that takes immeasurable time 
and thought to produce-leave the paintings, 
drawings, photos, etc., alone and advise 
those art collectors you might know to use 
legitimate methods to procure work for 
their collections.
Political
Perspective
Released
After a few years of working on a hod
ge-podge of issues with no general focus, 
the CMU Revolutionary Alliance has 
worked out a political perspective which 
will give direction to its actions. Included 
in the perspective is:
-A quick description of the fact that most 
problems existing a few years ago when 
there were much more massive protests, 
still exist and many have gotten worse. -An 
analysis of the shortcomings of past move
ment activities and problems that exist 
with various groups, such as alternative 
institutions, muckraking, anti-war and 
anti-repression groups, and electoral 
groups. -An analysis of power is America 
and the connections of state monopoly 
capitalism with societal problems. -A dis
cussion of the counter culture. How is it 
progressive? How is it reactionary?
In the near future the Revolutionary 
Alliance will be working on the production 
of a manual for material and psychological 
survival in Pittsburgh. It will be participa
ting in the April 1 Mobilization in Harris
burg, to coincide with the Kissenger Kid
nap Conspiracy trial and the April 12 
Anti-War Mobilization in New York. The 
Alliance is trying to get together groups of 
radicals from different fields, to bring the 
works of alternative groups such as the 
Computer People for Peace to the campus. 
Finally, the Revolutionary Alliance will be 
dealing with campus issues such as budget 
cuts, layoffs and the firing of politically 
active faculty members.
CMU Revolutionary Alliance will be 
having its next meeting Wednesday, March 
22 in room 56, Skibo at 4:30 p.m.
BeerBoycott
The Iron City Beer Company has capitu
lated to a year long boycott campaign pro
testing discriminatory hiring and advance
ment practices. A spokesman from the per
sonnel office at Iron City described the 
settlement achieved to the TARTAN.
Two-thirds of all new employees hired 
over the next two years will be Black. 
Thereafter, 50 percent of all new em
ployees will be Black until such time as the 
work force is representative of the popula
tion of the city of Pittsburgh.
A consequence of this settlement is that 
a number of angry Whites are now boycot
ting Iron City for having given too 
much. The Iron City spokesman claimed 
that the settlement had received bad press 
coverage. He said that one of the fears of 
the white people was that Whites would be 
laid off so that Blacks might be hired, but 
that this was absolutely untrue, and, in 
fact, is not possible due to union rules. The 
spokesman reiterated that the settlement 
covered only new employees hired.
Susan Christian, director of the CMU 
YWCA, said, One of the fears of white 
people is that Whites will be laid off so that 
black will be hired. This is untrue. There is 
a natural attrition rate and these vacancies 
will be filled by Blacks. She then stated, 
Many white people are now boycotting 
Iron City Beer, and taverns are removing 
their Iron City taps. This is a threat to Iron 
City which is finally attempting to achieve 
equality. We are asking that concerned 
white people show support for Iron City 
and its personnel reforms in any way possi
ble, whether by calling the company, talk
ing with friends, or buying Iron City.
FLYING
11 to 2 a.m. ovary *nr QINO and PETES .
Tak# Out Order* 411 South Craig St.  Oakland 
(82*8691 Hoogiot The biggest and busiest 
Pizzas Mad to Ordor -J- Pizza Parlor in OAKLAND!

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6 - THE TARTAN - Tuesday, March 21, 1972
Garls Senate to Serve Students
Michael Garl, senior in Drama depart
ment, has been reelected to serve a second 
term as Student Senate President. Mike 
assumed the position in December after 
Vince Misitano resigned. Mike will be a 
graduate student in production here at 
CMU next year.
The TARTAN was granted an exclusive 
interview with President-elect Garl when 
he arrived at Senate offices after the elec
tion.
TARTAN: How does it feel to be reelect
ed?
GARL: I was very relieved to hear the 
results. I waited around nervously, paced 
the floor and wore holes in my shoes! I am 
very pleased with the results of the el
ection. We have some people whom I be
lieve will be very influential in Senate. 
There are some races that havent been 
decided yet, and will be decided at Senate 
meeting this Tuesday, the 21st.
T: What are the main problems youll be 
working with in Senate?
G: The biggest problem is getting students 
aware that Senate is working for them.
T: What do you see as the main purpose of 
Senate?
G: To take care of students health and 
welfare, to see that we dont get screwed 
on campus.
Stud. Senate GetsQuorum
Kerry Greenwald
The last meeting of the fall term of 
Student Government proved two things. 
The meeting was held in the Staff Cafeteria 
on Monday, March 13 and started at 4:30 
PM when the first quorum in weeks was 
assembled. The first thing it proved was 
that Student Government can be a respon
sive and efficient body when, and only 
when, responsible people get involved. For 
almost two hours Senate deliberated items 
of both major and minor concern and even 
approved an amendment to its constitu
tion. (in regard to the quorum require
ment). The agenda haveing moved three/ 
fourths of the way through the new budget 
proposals got bogged down on the exact 
definition of the Activities Board Program
ming Fund (especially in regards to the 
MDC film budget). Due to the irresponsi
bility and perhaps selfish interests of a se
lect few senator(s) the meeting became 
more like a battle than a group of working 
individuals. The next fifteen-twenty min
utes proved fruitless. After it had been 
voted to incorporate the MDC budget into 
the Programming Fund, a senator, deciding 
to be cute, asked for a quorum count, after 
a few senators had decided to leave to get 
something to eat (time approx. 6:50). It 
was apparent that any tactic would have 
been employed to delay the issue, and it 
was for this reason that a number of the 
members of finance committee walked out.
My second point is simply this: persons 
who hold their own selfish interests above 
the good of the whole, and thos showing a 
lack of responsibility can transform the 
Senate into a useless body. Because of the 
recent elections, I, for one, have great con
fidence that the new Senate will be one of 
the most effective bodies the school has 
seen. Its about time we utilize the vast 
potential Senate has. Id like to urge the 
entire campus to come down to meetings, 
and make their own proposals so we can do 
what is best for all concerned.
T: What about financial problems, new or
ganizations, budget cuts?
G: Well have to be very careful. When new 
organizations come, theyll have to realise 
that we dont have much money and organ
izations already around will have to realize 
that they cant ask for as much as they 
have in the past.
T: Around January, there was talk about 
$52,000 unclaimed in the budget. If that is 
so, why is there a crisis now?
G: If there was, I dont know where it is 
and no one in Senate does either. Last 
year, we spent about all we had. There are 
still deficits were picking up from last 
year, and well have deficits this year.
T: What is the role of Senate in terms of 
university administration and policy de
cisions?
G: I think that they should be involved 
with any policy decisions made. Dr. Schatz 
has set up a policy board, like Dr. Stevers 
policy b advisory board, made up of fac
ulty, administration and students. But 
Schatz has ignored the fact that students 
are here. When I asked about it, he said the 
committees decisions wont affect stu
dents. It seems stupid to say that any dec
ision to be made in Warner Hall wont 
affect the students. Im not pressing it right 
now because well have a new president 
soon and I will approach him.
T: Is there legislation providing for stu
dents representation on the Board of Trust
ees?
G: That is a U.S. Senate Amendment 
passed for the Higher Education Act. It 
isnt compulsory, and theres really no way 
to enforce it. It is a very good idea. One of 
the presidential candidates we interviewed 
said that where he is from, they have 50% 
students and faculty, and 50% old bankers 
and businessmen. They have equal voting 
power. Some of those old businessmen 
come off their death beds to make it to 
those meetings because every vote will 
count. Here, our Board meetins are just a 
big rubber stamp. Everything is a unan
imous vote. Anytime everything is 
unanimous, its nothing but a rubber stamp. 
Here we have 14 students on 5 trustee 
committees with full votingpower. We have 
no one actually on the Board. The pres
ident of Senate sits in and goes to cocktails 
and dinner after, with no voting power.
T: What services will Senate provide for the 
students?
G: Again, its health and welfare. Were 
working with food service to improve it, 
but theres a long way to go. Ive talked 
with faculty who say food in their cafeteria 
is as bad or worse as the food in the Grill. 
We ought to get together with the faculty.
We should provide gynocological ser
vices, but the financial problems have be
come very prominent. We ought to look 
into it with the Pittsburgh Council on 
Higher Education for developing a city
wide service with Drs. on call all the time 
in cooperation with Pitt Medical School or 
the Oakland Hospitals. These are a few of 
the services that effect a students everyday 
life.
T: What happened with the grand coalition 
of Pittsburgh University Student Govern
ments?
G: That died out. Id like to take the 
existing organization of Pittsburgh Council 
of Higher Education (PCHE) and use it as 
the motivational force to get everyone to
gether. We had one meeting, and havent 
heard anyting from them since December. 
Id like to find out what problems we all 
have in common, and get together to do 
something. Its an active organization, so 
we should be able to do something with it.
T: What effect will this have on services 
available to CMU students?
G: Perhaps a super health service! Maybe a 
super food service. If youre buying for
50.000 it should be cheaper! Maybe some
thing like McDonalds could go in closer to 
CMU- theres some space between here 
and the Museum. The competition might 
put pressure on the Grill and food services 
to improve their food. McDonalds is a real 
treat after eating at the Grill.
T: Are you willing to make any predictions 
about next year in Senate, or about what 
you hope to accomplish in Senate?
G: I dont want to make a lot of empty 
promises that I cant keep, but there are a 
few goals I have set for myself and Senate. 
The main thing I want to see Student Gov
ernment to do is become concerned with 
students everyday campus life, and let the 
students know what we are doing. But to 
do this, we need the help of the entire 
student body. Before we can solve their 
problems, we have to know about them!
Experimental 
H&SS Goals
The H&SS College Council and Goals 
Committee met on Wednesday, March 15 
to seek clarification of the H&SS college 
goals. With such clarification, Council 
members felt they would be in a better 
position to evaluate the report of the gra
ding committee, to be presented at the 
meeting on Wednesday, March 22.
The meeting began with discussion pro
voked by a statement, draftedby Dean Ir
win Steinberg explaining the goals of the 
college as it is presently operated. Because 
many Council members felt that this state
ment was meaningless and lacked tangible 
direction, the goals committee presented 
information concerning an experimental 
proposal made last fall.
Professor Alan Meltzer, Chairman of the 
committee, stated that it would be unrea
sonable to expect a small group of people 
to provide the college with a statement of 
goals. Instead, the Goals Committee 
moved to institute a new, experimental 
program. This program, if successful, 
would become the directing force of the 
college and reshape the goals through its 
own operation.
Speaking very pragmatically, certain 
Council members pointed out that these 
experimental goals of the college should 
be emphasized in the college catalogue, in
dicating the progressive quality of the col
lege to prospective applicants. This point 
was accepted as an official recommenda
tion made by the Council.
The grading committee will present its 
report on the present systems in H&SS at 
the COllege Council meeting on Wednes
day, March 22. All meetings are open.
Wanted: 
ARTISTS & 
CRAFTSMEN
TO DISPLAY AND SELL 
YOUR WORK AT
O'
COFFEEHOUSE
ARTS FESTIVAL
April 7-8-9  Rodef Shalom
Call:
*N0Y~66-B449 or
RODEF SHALOM-621.6566
No later than March 3T*t 
of submit prices
 CO"
Q
'4 ,-\'0' ( C'
, C'( fO'1
^ co'ACv2/ 1 07)4- J , Ju N
rt#0

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN, Tuesday, March 21, 1972 - Page 7
Trustees Meet to Finalize 
Drama-Fine Arts Complex
On Feb. 28 the Development and Plan
ning Committee of the CMU Board of 
Trustees met to finalize plans for con
struction of Phase I of the new Drama-Fina 
Arts Complex.
Under the direction of Logan T. John
son, chairman of the committee, the group 
reviewed architectural plans of the build
ing, projected costs, funds currently avail
able, and measures needed to raise addi
tional money. Phase I of the Complex will 
include a 200 seat studio theatre, an exten
sive workshop area, and drama classrooms. 
Phases II and III of the building will be 
added in the future when funds become 
available; they consist of both a thrust and 
a proscenium theatre.
According to architects projections, 
Phase I of the Drama Complex will cost 
slightly more than $4.2 million , and at 
present only $2.6 million are available. 
Therefore, the committee considered ways 
of raising the additional $1.6 million. After 
lengthy discussion the group decided to 
launch an intense, nine month fund raising 
campaign under the leadership of an as yet 
unnamed Trustee.
CMU Vice-President for Development 
John G. Johnson, who presented most ofSKIBO
In an effort to provide improved service 
to the users of Skibo the Department of 
Building Services will begin a new house
keeping schedule on March 16, 1972. The 
third shift (11:00 PM to 7:00 AM) will be 
eliminated and all cleaning will be done on 
the 7:00 AM to 3:30 PM and the 3:30 PM 
to 12 Midnite shifts. This change will not 
affect the usage of Skibo Hall as the Cam
pus Activities center, but expect that im
proved cleaning standards will be evident in 
all areas.
1. Schedule of classes will be available 
during the week of April 3.
2. Academic departments will be set up in 
gym to process course and section 
enrollment on April 13 from 1-5 PM and 
6-9 PM. Classes will not be cancelled on 
this day. But to help provide students with 
more equity in course enrollments they 
will be assigned a specific time to appear in 
the gym. The faculty have been asked to 
cooperate in excusing from class those 
students who because of the time 
assignments must miss all or part of their 
classes.
3. Students must appear at the gym at the 
designated time with their time assignment 
card and 4 schedule cards approved by 
their advisor. (Note: advisors are not to 
retain a copy. The Registrar will return 3 
copies to departments after enrollments 
have been completed in the gym.)
4. Students must enroll on departmental 
class lists at appropriately marked 
departmental tables for each course 
scheduled. Where it is necessary for the 
teaching department to change sections or 
refuse enrollment because of filled 
sections, the student should correct all 
copies of the schedule card to reflect these 
changes.
5. The official roster of a class is 
determined by the list generated by each 
department in the pre-registration and 
registration procedures. If a student does
the material at the meeting, stated that 
barring further complications, ground for 
the new Drama Complex should be broken 
by the end of May, subject to Trustee 
approval.
Present at the meeting were the follow
ing CMU representatives: Acting President 
Edward Schatz, V-P Johnson, Director of 
Development Robert Barr, Professors 
Akram Midani of Drama and Charles Van 
Dyke of Chemistry, and students Kenneth 
Sachs and Thomas Klopack. Trustees 
present were Robert Dickey III, E. H. 
Gott, John Harper, David Schmidt, and 
Logan Johnston.
Jim Slivka
The results of the Florida primary is as
follows:
CandidatesPercent Vote
Wallace42
Humphrey18
Jackson14
Muskie9
Lindsay6.5
McGovern5.5
Chisholm4
All that can be asked about what has 
happened in Florida is do the American (or 
is it Amerikan?) people have any common 
sense? God help America, it needs it!
Muskie and McGovern bombed. Muskie 
had not expected to. do well, anyway. 
Chisholm got twice as many votes as she 
expected to get! Lindsay (who cant run 
New York City) beat McGovern (this could 
kill his momentum) for the left-liberal 
vote. Jackson came in a strong third (riding 
in on Wallaces coattails). Primarily, Wal
lace ran strongly because there was an
not sign the class list for each class in 
which he wants to enroll, no subsequent 
issuance of class cards by the Registrar at 
any time during the registration procedure 
will entitle him to entry into any class. If 
an instructor receives a class card with a 
name which does not appear on the class 
list, he will mark it void and return it to 
the Registrar. The appropriate way for 
students to enter courses after registration 
in September is by Change in Schedule 
Card.
6. It is important that students indicate on 
the schedules the classification (ie. 
sophomore, senior, etc.) which they will 
have in the Fall rather than the present 
classification.
7. Students who have pre-registered will be 
given preference for places in courses over 
all students who have not pre-registered 
regardless of their classification (ie. senior, 
junior, etc.).
8. Time Assignment cards will be sent to 
students at their home address during 
Spring Recess. Students who are 
contemplating, or are in the process of, 
changing departments need not have their 
Time Assignment cards changed in order to 
pre-register. If for any reason the card is 
not received, a duplicated may be secured 
from: a. Freshmen in CIT, MIS, H&SS 
students in the Office of the Dean. b. All 
upperclass students and freshmen Fine Arts 
students in department offices.
PIRG cont.
meeting with students to identify and deal 
with minor problems that have arisen.
With many of the preliminaries comple
ted, and with the demonstration of student 
support, the organizers of PIRG will pre
sent their formal proposal to the school 
this week. A contract will be presented 
which will specify the schools relationship 
with PIRG, including their role in the col
lection of the $2 fee, and the mechanisms 
for arranging academic credit for research 
projects. Provisions will be included to pro
tect the university from any unforseeable 
problems that have arise in the future.
Students working for PIRG have found
anti-busing amendment on which to be 
voted (it passed, 74 to 26 percent). Busing 
was Wallaces pet issue, and only issue! 
This leaves the Democratic party in 
shambles, with Richard sitting in the White 
House viewing it all from Cloud Nine! (Ted 
Kennedy-are you alive and well?)
On Satruday, March 11, Georgia held its 
delegate selection primary and the voters 
elected 5 delegates for Ms. Chisholm, 4 for 
McGovern, 1 for Mills, and 30 uncommit
ted. Thirteen more delegates will be chosen 
by these 40 elected March 11.
Today, the Illinois primary occurs with 
Muskie opposing McCarthy in the prefer
ence primary; in the delegate race Mc
Govern is also entered. No longer can 
Mayor Daley control delegate selection as 
they are elected by congressional districts. 
Muskie should win big in the preference 
poll. However, the delegate race will be 
close with Muskie on top, but McGovern 
doing strong in the many college districts. 
McCarthy is given little chance. But at this 
point, who knows what will happen!
The only one, according to Gallup and 
Harris, who can beat Nixon is having a very 
rough time. What is happening is that in
stead of dethroning King Richard I, the 
Democratic 11 are putting his throne on 
sturdier ground.
little resistance on campus. Several Deans 
and faculty members have indicated their 
willingness to work with PIRG. Some have 
already submitted outlines for research 
projects which they would like to direct. 
One of these includes a comprehensive 
analysis of inner city food prices, quality 
and availability. Another involves an evalu
ation of the air pollution index for Pitts
burgh and better ways of applying and 
using the index figures. Once the adminis
tration has officially recognized PIRG, 
more projects and research opportunities 
will allow CMU students to participate in 
the investigation of community problems 
and their solutions. PIRG will be holding 
campus elections during the second week 
in April to elect a local board. This student 
board will be the governing body of CMUPIRG chapter. They will work with the 
area PIRG and with CMU administration, 
faculty, and students in organizing pro
jects, communicating feelings and ideas, 
and supervising PIRG activities at CMU. It 
is through this board that the students will 
have opportunity to effect the direction of 
PIRGs activities. The local board will also 
select one of its members to serve on the 
area board. Any CMU student is eligible to 
run for a position the nine member board. 
A student should secure the signatures of
25 students and turn these into the PIRG 
office. Those interested in running can ob
tain more information about the board ac
tivities from the PIRG office.
The students at other Pittsburgh schools 
are having more trouble establishing local 
PIRG chapters. The administration at Pitt 
has had many misconceptions about the 
goals and directions of PIRG, and have 
been unwilling to discuss the problems. 
Over 9000 students have signed the peti
tion at Pitt, yet Chancellor Posvar has been 
very reluctant to meet with PIRG organi
zers. The Pitt students conducted a phone 
in last week, tying up his phone for the 
entire day before he would agree to meet 
with them to discuss the problems.
Several community organizations and 
leaders are supporting PIRG, including 
some officials in Harrisburg. Both Cong
ressman William Moorhead and Congress
man H. John Henry have officially endor
sed the Western Pennsylvania PIRG. Stu
dents will meet with officials of Senator 
Hugh Scotts office this week. It is hoped 
that the endorsement of more community 
leaders will speed the establishment of 
PIRG at the other Pittsburgh area schools.
Going Home Over Spring Break?
AS IN THE PAST, A.Phi.O. will operate a SHUTTLE 
BUS SERVICE from C-MU Campus to Greater Pitts
burgh International Airport on MARCH 24th, 1972!
COST: S1.50 . . . Leave C-MU from:
MOREWOOD GARDENS at: 11:45 a.m, 2:15 p.m., 4:45 p.m. 
DONNER HALL at: 12:00 noon, 2:30 p.m 5:00 p.m.
To Make Reservations:
Contact any of the following:
? 1) Skibo Info. Desk
?2) Main Desk at Moorewood Gardens 
? 3) Dave Mahaesek, B-l 02 Schlag 
?4) Ron Moffat, 301 Donner
?5) A.Phi.O., Box 100 (Campus Mail)
?6) Tech Travel Office, BH-136
MAKE CHECKS PAYABLE TO aLPHA pHI oMEGA, kAPPA cHAPTERI
Pre-Registration Procedures Revealed
irOii Save Amerika!
(or Qeotge Wallace wins in Jlorida)

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8 - THE TARTAN - Tuesday, March 21, 1972
Friday
Europe, Miss Mouskouri sings not only in 
her native Greek, but in French, German, 
Italian, Spanish, English and Hebrew. Nana 
Mouskouri is married to George Petsilas, 
whose group, the Athenians, accompanies 
her on tour. She and her husband and two 
children live in Geneva.
The International Poetry Forum is 
sponsored by the Carnegie Library under 
an endowment from the AW Mellon Educa
tional and Charitable Trust with supple
mentary grants from the Commonwealth 
of Pennsylvania Council on the Arts.
Tickets for Miss Mouskouris concert are 
available at Kaufmanns, Hornes, Gimbels, 
downtown, the Duquesne, Pitt, and Carnegie-Mellon Student Unions, as well as at the 
Poetry Forum office in Carnegie Library, 
Oakland. For additional information, call 
the International Poetry Forum office, 
621-9893.
Mouskouri To Appear
The International Poetry Forum has an
nounced the special appearance of Nana 
Mouskouri on Friday, March 24, at at 8:30 
PM in Carnegie Music Hall, Oakland.
Nana Mouskouri was born in Athens, 
Greece, where she studied voice at the Con
servatoire Hellenique for eight years. I 
didnt want to be an opera singer, she 
says, but I had to learn somehow and 
start somewhere. The best way to learn is 
to go to school, and there was no class for 
other than classical singing. Miss 
Mouskouri formed a small jazz group with 
friends and made her debut as a songstress 
in an Athens taverna-the Tzaki. In 1958 
she joined a troupe of young performers in 
Athens who were called upon to entertain 
the US Sixth Fleet. She was scheduled to 
sing one song, but the response was so 
overwhelming that they kept her on stage 
for two hours. Subsequently, she won first 
prize in the 1959 Athens Song Festival for
a song written especially for her by the 
Greek composer Manos Hadjidakis. In 
1960 she won first prize in the Festival of 
Mediterranean Song in Barcelona.
In 1963 Miss Mouskouri and her 
quartet, the Athenians, left Greece to make 
a stage and recording career centered in 
France. Miss Mouskouri became best 
known in the United States when Harry 
Belafonte asked her to tour with him. He 
Told me he heard me in 1960. He gave a 
concert in Athens and, after his show, 
friends brought him where I used to sing in 
a club and he heard me. I didnt meet him 
or know he was there. From that came 
another album, An Evening with Bela
fonte with Belafonte/Mouskouri, on 
RCA. In 1970 Miss Mouskouri taped a tele
vision special for Eurovision, with Bela
fonte and Italian opera tenor Franco 
Corelli as guests.
One of the most popular singers of
Ms. Nana Mouskouri 
International Poetry Forum 
Friday, March 24
jors pizza
is now delivering
Compare Our Price
9" PIZZA ___________ JO
12" PIZZA___________1.40
Extras  .25 and .30
SANDWICHIS*
HOAGIE..........................00 1
HAM _______________45 1
MAT BAIL___________.SO
HOT SAUSAGE ______.50 j
CHEESE................. .....*5
SODAS____________ ...20 ]
Delivery Charge to IX *mt;
? .35 ?
CALL 621-3223 
4800 Bamu Boulevard
FREE PROFESSIONAL 
DRAFT COUNSELING
'HAI B'RITH HI Ufi. FOUNDATION 
315 Sovfh SriMfeld Threr 
Crd MUrs
fcwy Taosday Kvonlng
7:00 to 9:00 p.m.
621-MT5
Sometimes flying standby is mostly standing by.
Thats why Northwest came up 
with Reserved Youth Fare.
Camping out is great. But not at an airport. 
Sometimes, unfortunately, it turns out that 
way. Now, though, weve done something 
about it.
If you have any airline Youth Card, you can 
get a reserved seat for 20% off. Make a reser
vation and when flight time comes, just walk 
in and take your seat along with all the other
important people. No waiting. No worrying. 
No getting bumped off the plane when you 
really wanted to go all the way home.
If you dont have a Northwest Youth Card, 
you should. And you can get one at any North
west ticket office or your campus travel agent. 
(Be sure to bring along proof that youre 
between 12-22.)
Next time you cant afford to wait, remem
ber Northwests Reserved Youth Fare. And 
call your travel agent or Northwest Airlines.
FLY NORTHWEST ORIENT
P.S. STANDBY FARES. To those of you who dont
mind standing by in airports and even
think its sort of neat because you meet interesting
people there: your Youth Card can still get
you Northwests regular standby youth
fare40% off Coach.
Pregnancy 
Counseling
PITTSBWIQH
Oat
422*7900
Woman's Medical Assistantes
a non-profit organization
cinderthistle 
hand knitting yarns
812 ivy street 
shadyside

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN, Tuesday, March 21, 1972  Page 9
FL YI YNG arlI Ll slSYeL ntL soSSlL
The directors of the British Theatre Se
minar, a regular teaching jaunt in England 
each summer, were delighted last month 
when Dame Peggy Ashocroft and Alan 
Bates, both of whom starred in plays in
cluded in the Seminar, carried off the cov
eted British Drama Award from Londons 
Drama Critics.
Richard Hampton, a featured player in a 
British TV series, the Challengers, is the 
principal director of the British Theatre 
Seminar. He was asked whythe program is 
just for American drama students. Its not 
really limited to A,erican drama students, 
but they seem to be more interested in the 
British theatre in general. They tend to 
work harder at it and are able to learn 
more from the course.
Do the students learn anything? We 
think so. They see a lot of plays - seventeen 
last year. Things likeTyger Midsummer 
Nights Dream, Butley, several productions 
by the Royal Shakespeare Company and 
even an opening night when the National 
Theatre Company put on Dantons Death.
When asked what students could do in 
addition to the program of the Seminar, 
Hampton answered, Not much really. 
You see the whole thing is very concentra
ted - first class plays almost every night; 
lectures, visits, that kind of thing during 
the day...but they went to Stratford and 
down to Chichester on the south coast and 
there was just time for some sightseeing 
trips around London. Weve allowed more 
free time this year, theyll be able to get
around a bit more. After probing, it was 
discovered that subjects like acting, direct
ing, writing for the theater, stage design, 
lighting, music in the theater, theater man
agement and new developments in the 
Theater are all covered in the one month 
course.
The British Theatre Seminar was started 
several years ago and has been receving 
groups of US students in Britain regularly. 
The course costs $850 from New York, 
and slightly more from L.A. and Chicago. 
This includes round trip transportation as 
well as room and board for the month in 
London. The Seminar is recognized by sev
eral universities as a credit course, and is 
equivalent to six hours or two courses. 
Box 17 Campus Mail for more details.
vutdGPtLG gLecl
Marc Elliot Field
In the latest Stanley Kubrick film, A 
CLOCKWORK ORANGE, violence may be 
fun; but it isnt funny. Violence and sex 
are what this film is all about. As it is, its 
difficult to sit through the two and one 
quarter hours of savage action. It would 
totally impossible to sit through it if 
Kubrick had not approached it in a surreal
istic and sometimes humorous fashion. 
Yet, the point is not lost. There was not 
one viewer that did not feel queasy and 
rather nauseous when the film was over.
Kubricks main goal was not to make us 
innocent movie-goers sick, yet it was one 
of the more important elements of the 
film. In a very true sense the medium was 
the message. Just as Alex,(Malcolm 
McDowell), the sadistic billy-boy was fin
ally conditioned out of his violent ten
dencies by having to watch violence, so was 
the audience. The doctors in the film made 
Alex sit through so much violence that he 
was incapable of violent action. That is 
what Kubrick does to his audience.
The society in the film, just like ours, 
was faced with the dilemma of cure and 
reformation versus punishment. Alex is fin
ally totally rehabilitated. Then for purely 
political reasons, (thats what makes the 
country tick), a group of conspirators 
force the country to abandon their pro
gram. Of course, that is only part of the 
reason why many do not want the miracle 
cure to be used. There is just as much 
violence in the punishers as in those who 
are punished. Alexs friends and family 
didnt want him cured, they wanted him 
punished. Finally, the objection, by the 
prison chaplain was that the cure had de
stroyed Alexs moral choice. He would 
be good because he was incapable of being 
bad and not because he had made a con
scious choice. He could no longer be a man 
since he was not a free agent.
Be all this as it may, the audience got 
the cure. Kubricks violence was softened 
by his surrealistic approach but it was still 
extremely graphic. It would have been 
technically impossible to put more blood 
and gore in this film. You might think that 
watching Alex rape a woman and grapple 
her husband while crooning Singing in the 
Rain might not get to you, but believe 
me, it does!
The entire cast of the film was excellent 
at all times, yet of course, McDowell stole 
the show. He was one hundred per cent 
believable both as sadistic billy-boy and as 
reformed prisoner who got sick to his 
stomach every time he even thought of 
violence and sex.
Technically the film was brilliant and.it 
was in this area that the real genius of 
Kubrick shone through. By combining 
special effects and photography with class
ical music, the violent sequences assume a 
macabre sense which makes them even 
more grotesque in their world of fantasy.
If you have a strong stomach, you 
should definitely see A CLOCKWORK 
ORANGE.
SCOTTYS3*1! FOtftfS AVINUf 
7*1 PfNN AVKNUI 
IIPW OUTI 8,HijU4i MOffTH Of UK A
OPEN TO 
SERVE YOU fcV24 HOURS A DAY
Between Clmtt 
or at Study Broak
Being the adventures of a young man 
whose principal interests are rape, 
ultra-violence and Beethoven.
HAMLET KUBRICK S
A Stanley Kubrick Production "A CLOCKWORK ORANGE" Starring Malcolm McDowell  F^trick Magee 
Adrienne Corri and Miriam Karlin  Screenplay by Stanley Kubrick  Based on the novel by 
Anthony Burgess  Produced and Directed by Stanley Kubrick  Executive Producers 
Max L Raab and S UvmoH  From Warner BrOS orignal socndtrad recortJrig on 'AAvner Bros records
25c Indoor Parking! Evenings
A_. After 5 P.M. Sat., Sun. &STARTS CHATHAM CINEMAWEDNESDAY at Chatham Cantar 261-1001 ^ ^
NOW ACADEMY AWARD 
NOMINATIONS FOR:
REST PICTURE 
REST DIRECTOR 
REST SCREENPLAY 
REST EDITING

---------------------------------------------------

10 - THE TARTAN - Tuesday, March 21, 1972
NO MORE PENCILS, NO MORE BOOKS, DIRTY LOOKS.
TWA INTRODUCES THE 1972 GETAWAY* PROGRAM.
This ad wasnt written to amuse you. It was written to get you to think. To think of how few school vacations you may have left.Before you know it, the 9 to 5 hassle will be starting. So this summer may be your last real chance to travel. To help you plan your getaway, let us send you our free Getaway* Kit.With the Kit you can get:TWAs Stutelpass*A coupon booklet that gives you a room and continental breakfast in either a guesthouse or student hotel in Europe for only $4.80 a night.No advance reservations are needed.Also included are free coupons that can be used for bullfights, use of a bicycle, theater tickets, sightseeing and more.TWAs Bed and Breakfast Adventures.2- to 7-day guesthouse packages to any of 50 European cities. Among them Amsterdam, where you can spend 3 days for only $22. And Athens, where 3 nights cost only $16.TWAs Getaway* Card Application.With TWAs Getaway Card, you can charge 
airfare, hotels, meals, car rentals, Getaway packages and more. And then take up to two years to pay.
Its the most widely distributed, widely accepted
airline card in the world. And its free.TWAs Youth Passport* Card.If youre 12 thru 21, you can get 1/3 off normal domestic coach flights, on a standby basis.Plus discounts on over 20 other airlines in the 
United States, Canada, and Europe.The card also gets you discounts at over 700 shops 
and hotels around the world.TWAs Getaway* Guidebook.A 224-page guidebook highlighting 19 of the most popular cities in the world.
PLEASE SEND ME GETAWAY KIT.
TWA, P.O. Box 876 
Farmingdale, N.Y. 11735
Name
Address
State
Mviy travel agent448
Service marks owned exclusively by TWA.

---------------------------------------------------

bummer electric guitar piece that started 
out with a wild electronic fuzz-tone wah-- 
wah freak-out, the kind that was passe 
when Jimi Hendrix walked off the Mont
erey stage in 1967, proceeded to some lyri
cal strumming that could have just as well 
been played acoustically, and closed* with 
some heavy handed chording and more el
ectronic distortion.
Phillips came on for the second set and 
performed a sitar piece which, after much 
dramatic preparation and tuning, pro
ceeded to explore all the limited possibil
ities of a do-re-mi major scale.
Before the audience had time to recover 
from this banal experience, he recited a 20 
minute fairy tale poem, about the birth of 
the rainbow, that had this* critic practically 
throwing up under his chair. After a halfhour acoustic number that put this critic to 
sleep, except during the falsetto vocals that 
sounded something like the scratching of 
nails on a blackboard or the rubbing of a 
balloon, the audience was in for the treat 
of the evening. He picked up his funky 
double-necked electric guitar, brought on a 
second guitarist, and explained that we 
never know whats going to happen when 
we get up here. Apparently they didnt 
know what was going on before, during, or 
after. The second guitarist, whose name
THE TARTAN. Tuesday, March 21, 1972  Page 11
JANIS IAN
slips my mind, was the most inept guitarist 
I have seen in months of TGIF-going. 
Phillips alternately freaked-out with his el
ectronic gadgets and tried to get a boogie 
going, which the guitarist immediately de
stroyed by displaying a total lack of 
rhythmic sense. He got a standing ovation 
from the audience which had, by the end, 
dwindled to about half of what it had 
been, and even this was largely TaylorAlderdice boppers.
After such a disappointing show, I was 
reluctant to go to see Janis Ian, but I'm 
glad 1 did, for here is a girl with true taste 
and imagination. I was expecting a circa 
-1961 folkie to appear, but she came on 
stage with an electric guitar and drums and 
bass backing. Her songs were generally low 
key, if not perhaps a little too lethargic, 
but she knew how to boogie, too, and she 
played both guitar and piano with guts on 
the up-tempo numbers.
Many of her songs were protest songs, 
but, unlike the protest songs that are a 
litany of slogans sung over a flaccid accom
paniment, Ians songs were lyrically and 
musically interesting. Her band didnt seem 
to be very familiar with the songs, reading 
many of them off charts, but they did a 
great job with very few slip-ups.
Janis Ian, si. Shawn Phillips, non.
Walter Koehler
Photos: Elliot Arons and Ed Levine
Guitarists are a strange breed. For one 
thing, the guitar is the most popular in
strument among younger people todayeverybody and his brother will play or 
attempt to play something when they are 
handed a guitar. Then there are the serious 
guitarists-those who have progressed be
yond strumming The Time They are 
A-Changing,and have learned all kinds of 
riffs and chords with which they impress 
their friends and charm the opposite sex.
Shawn Phillips is the ultimate guitarist 
in this class. On Friday, March 10 in Skibo 
Ballroom, he surrounded himself with half 
a dozen instruments, like some kind of six 
and twelve string masturbation. He sat on 
stage as the audience came in, dramatically 
tuning his various instruments and throw
ing out all kinds of super-fast runs to tease 
and impress them. When the show finally 
got under way, the most exciting moment 
was when he played the same guitar for 
two songs in a row. The first half of the 
show was mainly acoustic songs, sometimes 
interesting, often boring, and frequently 
obnoxious. Between songs, he punctuated 
his act with pretentious folkie rags. The 
last number of the set was a positively
SHAWN PHILLIPS

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12 - THE TARTAN - Tuesday, March 21.1972
yCss vtSSleILi
Steve Jurman
Amid the furor and empty debate over 
the A, B, Cs and no entried of H&SS, I 
feel that another issue has been largely 
submerged and ignored. I know that many 
students feel it deeply. I know that the 
issue has been frequently raised but always 
talked around and avoided at the College 
Council meetings. I do not believe that it 
has ever been publicly articulated so that 
debate might follow.
The issue is the steadily increasing tech
nical. quantitative orientation of H&SS. 
My purpose in presenting it as I see it is to 
spur public and open debate and discus
sion.
ALLEGATION
I see several types of activity technologizing the College. The first is imply the 
setting and enforcing of college and depart
mental requirements. As we know, there 
are a number of math, science, and quanti
tative social science college requirements, 
instituted against the wishes of most stu
dents. The Social Relations Department re
cently changed its requirements; one 
change was to include six semesters of 
math.
More influential in this technologizing 
that simple requirements, however, is the 
steady shift in the curriculum. Course of
ferings include fewer and fewer non-technical and non-math selections. This process 
perhaps was evidenced by the abnormally 
large registration this semester for the one 
course in Social Relations perceived by stu
dents as non-math.
This curriculum shift is highlighted by 
the adoption of the Bachelor of Science 
degree program in Psychology, and the de
sire for one inSocial Relations and perhaps 
in Economics.
In the College Council meetings Ive 
attended, Ive noticed frequent comments 
by the Dean and certain department 
chairmen bemoaning the refusal of H&SS 
students to take more math and science 
courses. The desire to persuade them to 
take more of these courses is also 
frequently expressed.
FACULTY-ADMINISTRATION
The rationales of the various faculty and 
administrators involved, as I perceive them, 
are not without weight. The social-science 
deapartment chairmen I regularly meet 
with at the Council point out that the 
greatest progress in their fields is techni
cally oriented, and that to be successful in 
these fields today, such an orientation is 
necessary.
The argument is not wholy aimed at 
achieving grad school admissions and high 
salaries for CMU grads. At least one depart
ment chairman argues vociferously that the 
problems of today demand technical tools, 
if they are to be solved, (in itself a critical 
point for discussion.)
It is argued that forcing College math 
and science requirement, and influencing, 
by any means, students to take more such 
courses, is good for the students in that 
they will be well rounded adn better able 
to deal with the complex world.
I believe I perceive another thread in the 
discussions that have occurred. The world 
needs, basically, humanities people with 
the strong technical tools of today. Carne
gie Mellon University is seen as one of the 
institutions best able to prepare such 
people. In fact, it is almost stated to be a 
duty of CMU to develop in such a way.
STUDENTS 
The student view, as I perceive it (Ive 
dealt mainly with the class of 73) is radi
cally different. A great many probably a 
majoity, of the H&SS students face math 
with an antipathy bordering on revulsion.
To raise arguments that have now run 
for three years, a great many students ap
plied to the New College believing that it 
would be experimental-with all the 
images, shades, and emotions with which 
that word is currently imbued. Instead, 
they are faced with myriad requirements, 
many of which are math-science, and a 
steadily shrinking number of human 
course offerings.
These students in many cases feel 
tricked (some even to the extent of consi
dering legal relief) and trapped. For what
ever reasons, it is their choice not to be 
well rounded.
OBSERVATIONS
To reiterate, it is clear to me that these 
divergent opinions exist. It is also clear to 
me that the faculty and administration of 
H&SS either do not recognize the issue, or 
have chosen not to deal with it.
Also to reiterate, the technology 
rationales are not without weight. I per
sonally consider them quite weighty, al
though I wonder if the emphasis should be 
less on preparing technologized humanists 
and more on preparing humanized techno
crats.
But I also believe that the student dis
sent has a weighty basis. I believe that the 
students were made certain promises, and I 
must question whether it is morally or 
legally correct to allow the College to 
develop further along the present track 
without extensive debate.
The Goals Committee, which has thus 
far abdicated its responsibility will meet 
with the College Council this month. I see 
a lot of questions to be answered by a lot 
of people.
Katselas Speaks
at em
Love, the human condition, and the 
evils of the corporate state were the topics 
of discussion at GSIA last Thursday when 
noted architect Tasso Katselas spoke to the 
Program for Executive (PFE). The designer 
of the Edge restaurant East Hills Elemen
tary school, and Allegheny Community 
College explained how society must deve
lop building complexes that reflect human
ity and encourage individual and group 
exchanges. If we fail, he argued, our 
society is doomed.
He spoke of human feelings, intuitions, 
and subjective perceptions that are deter
mined by the environment. Our mass 
society produces great fears and needs for 
regimentation that lead us to restrain the 
architect from changing mans environ
ment, he claimed. We have lost the 
responsibility of living.
The response of the 30 executives of 
PFE included objections to Katselas claim 
that the architect must devoid himself of 
historical pre-conceptions and detach him
self from the environment. The middle to 
upper echelon management group generally 
received the CMU graduate with enthusi
astic approval.
MORE EXCITING SHORT FILMS
Friday, April 4
7:00 p.m. 
9:00 p.m.
DH 2210
50c with a.b. card

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN, Tuesday, March 21, 1972  Page 13
ACLU Statement on Abortions: Thomas M. Kerr, President
The present abortion law in the Com
monwealth, the Act of June 24,1939, P.L. 
872, 718 (18P.S. 4718) has twice recently 
been held to be unconstitutional, Com
monwealth v. Page (Court of Common 
Pleas of Centre County, July 23, 1970; 
September 21, 1970, R. Paul Campbell, 
P.J.); Berman, et al v. Duggan, et al (in the 
Court of Common Pleas of Allegheny 
County, Pennsylvania, no. 723 January 
Term, 1971, Loran Lewis, P.J. and Anne 
Alpern, J.) We believe these decisions will 
be upheld by the Pennsylvania Supreme 
Court.
We urge that the present statue be re
pealed, and that criminal sanctions respect
ing abortions be changed so that the laws 
and standards governing this medical proce
dure would be the same as those which 
govern the performance of all medical pro
cedures.
With respect to the present state abor
tion legislation, which again we urge be 
repealed, we assert the right of a woman to 
have an abortion and the right of a licensed 
physician to perform an abortion without 
threat of criminal sanctions.
We view the present law prohibiting abortion as violative of civil liberties and 
unconstitutional for six primary reasons:
1. In violation of the right of privacy, 
implies in the First, Third, Fourth, Fifth 
and Ninth Amendments of the Constitu
tion, and as illustrated in the case of Gris
wold v. Conneticut, 381 U.S. 479 (1965), 
present abortion laws deny the right of 
privacy: that is, the right to choose when 
and if to bear a child.
2. In violation of the Sixth and Four
teenth Amendments of the Constitution, 
present abortion laws are unconstitutional
ly vague. The Pennsylvania statute states 
that whoever unlawfully administers or 
unlawfully uses any instrument to com
mit an abortion is guilty of a felony. How
ever, the statute does not define the word 
unlawfully.
3. In violation of the spirit of the Four
teenth Amendment of the Constitution, 
the effect of the. present abortion laws is to 
deny to women in the lower economic 
groups equal prolection of the laws, since
safe abortions are now freely available to 
the rich but unobtainable by the poor.
4. In violation of the Fifth and Four
teenth Amendments of the Constitution, 
present abortion laws deprive women, 
without due process of law, of the liberty 
to decide whether and when their bodies 
are to be used for procreation.
5. We view as a violation of the First 
Amendment right of free speech that pro
vision of the penal code which denies 
physicians and others the right to counsel 
patients in a manner most in keeping with 
sound medical practice. As the United 
States Supreme Court ruled in Griswold 
case: The state may not consistent with 
the First Amendment contract the spec
trum of available knowledge.
6. A.C.L.U. has noted also that in vio
lation of establishment and freedom of reli
gion clauses of the First Amendment of the 
Constitution, present abortion laws forci
bly apply particular religious beliefs to the 
personal life of all individuals through the 
action of the state.
With respect to abortion, our definition 
throughout this statement is a termination 
of pregnancy prior to the viability of the 
fetus.
The effect of abolition of the present 
unconstitutional laws respecting abortion 
in Pennsylvania would be that any woman 
could ask a doctor to terminate a pregnan
cy prior to the time when the fetus could 
live outside of the mothers body. In his 
turn, a doctor could accede to a womans 
request in accordance with his professional 
judgement without fear of criminal prose
cution. Thus, the decision of whether or 
not to continue a pregnancy would become 
one of the womans personal discretion and 
of the doctors medical opinion.
Both would be free to follow their pri
vate consciences in determining whether 
their religious or moral standards were be
ing violated. No fear of criminal punish
ment would enter into the decision.
The ACLU holds that every woman, as a 
matter of her right to the enjoyment of 
life, liberty, and privacy, should be free to 
determine whether and when to bear child
ren without interference by government. 
The Union itself offers no comment on the 
wisdom or the moral implications of abor
tion, believing that such judgements belong 
soley in the province of individual con
science and religion. We maintain that the 
penal sanctions of the state have no proper 
application to such matters.
The discriminatory effect of the prohi
bition of abortion involves another area of 
civil liberties interest, that of equality. The 
rich can circumvent to violate the law with 
impunity, but the poor are at the laws 
mercy. This treatment is simply inequal. 
Moreover, the very tendency of, the law to 
be so arbitrarily applied and so widely ig
nored itslef weakens the principle of the 
general rule of law.
The social and medical problems created 
by prohibition of abortion are extremely 
serious, for example, the physical, psycho
logical, and social costs of backstreet abor
tions, and the consequences to the mother, 
her unwanted child, and the rest of her 
family when not even a criminal abortion is 
available.
The present Pennsylvania statute has 
been denominated the most restrictive 
abortion legislation in the United States. It 
should be noted that the 1939 version is a 
reenactment of a similar statute in the 
Commonwealth in the 19th century passed 
by the Legislature before women had the 
right to vote.
Its severity frequently causes women to 
resort to dangerous self-induced abortion 
of turn to back-alley butchers. This present 
Pennsylvania law never prevented abortion. 
All it does is prevent women with lower 
incomes from legally solving a problem 
that can seriously affect their lives, and the 
lives of the members of their immediate 
family. Medical studies show that an abor
tion performed under medically controlled 
conditions is several times safer than nor
mal childbirth. On the other hand, illicit 
abortions are very dangerous indeed. There 
is available copious evidence that the un
fortunate results of illicit abortions occur 
nearly seven times more often among non 
-whites than among whites.
All of the above sata strongly indicates
that manmade law has little or no effect 
upon the determination of women to free 
themselves from an unwanted pregnancy. 
When abortions are obtained legally, under 
safe consitions, women will choose this 
course. But if it is not possible, they will 
Slefy the law, ignore the danger to life and 
health, and seek out the criminal abortion
ist. In many countries the abortion rate 
approaches or even exceeds the rate of live 
births. The high abortion rate almost every
where indicates a compelling need, which 
women have already demonstrated by their 
actions, but are just beginning to articulate.
This Commission is urged to report to
the Legislature that the present anti-abortion law in the Commonwealth is uncon
stitutional as an infringement upon the 
constitutional right of women to determine 
for themselves, in consultation with their 
physicians, whether and when to have 
children, there is no compelling reason for 
the State to intrude in this personal decis
ion. For the State to do so violates funda
mental rights to privacy and to control of
ones own body and the State should not 
be in the position of seeking to enforce any 
religious belief concerning the propriety of 
abortion on those who so not share this 
belief. Any woman who believes that abor
tion is a violation of her religious or moral 
beliefs may act upon these belief, as a 
matter of personal choice. Others should 
be free to make their personal choice in 
terms of their own convictions.
Repeal of the present statute would end 
the hypocrisy which presently surrounds 
the varied enforcement of the present 
law. By making safe sbortions performed 
by physicians readily available, this Com
mission can save the lives and healths of 
Pennsylvania women who so long as the 
present statute is on the books, will inevi
tably resort to hazardous backstreet abor
tions. This Commission should take a 
strong position in support of the right of 
individual women to control their own re
productive lives and privacy.
Campes Camera Headquarters
FOR AU YOUR 
PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS
WE RENT AND 
REPAIR TYPEWRITERS
CAMERA EXCHANGE
.   ,~r: m~ Student Discount oa Most Itoms'.
1711 FORBES AVENUf Mion* 4*3-2 Iti
Iff You Want A Tartan, 
The Tartan Wants You!
interested in:
A NEWSREPORTI NG 7 
A REVIEWS?
A FEATURES?
 COME IN ROOM 50 SKIBO 
0ASSOVER HOLI4AYS
The Passover holidays this year begin of sundown on Wednesday, 
March 29 and continue through Thursday, April 6.
Those students remaining in the area will be Provided with home 
hospitality as requested for the Sedarim and for the first days.
It is imperave that those students who would like to eat at Hillel 
during he week of Passover, fill out tl.e questionnaire attached hereto, 
indicating the meals that they would like to eat with us- We would 
appreciate your enclosing a check for the full amount, payable to B'nai 
B'rith Hillel Foundation.
Those students desiring home hospitality, please complete the 
attached form to enable us to place you in a home that would suit your 
particular religious discipline and needs.
Wednesday, March 29, 1972 With a family: 1*1..........2nd
Thursday, March 30.................. Congregation: 1st night only
I would prefer a Seder that is: Orthodox..............Conservative
Reform..........Reconstructiionist..........Creative..........Freedom
I am enclosing $.....................for the filowing Passover meals, starting
Monday, April 3.
LUNCHES: 11 30 a m . 1 00 p.m.
$1.75students
$2.00non-students
DINNERS: 6 00 p m
$2.75students
$3.00 non-students
NAME
..........Monday, April 3 ........ Monday, April 3
..........Tuesday April 4 .........Tuesday, April 4
..........Wednesday, April 5 ........ Wednesday April 5
..........Thursday, April 4
It is imperative that all questions be answered. 
PAYMENT MUST ACCOMPANY REGISTRATION 
RESERVATION DEADLINE: March 20, 1972 
NO REFUNDS AFTER: March 24, 1972
Make check payable to B'nai B'rith Hillel foundation and mail to: 
315 South Bellefield Avenue, Pittsburah, Pennsylvania 15213
.............................................................................. TELEPHONE........................
ADDRESS.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14  THE TARTAN  Tuesday, March 21, 1972
editors note
SEASONS END, BEGINNING?
A fter receiving a letter from Bob McCurdy concerning the paving of 
Tech and Frew Streets, I've decided to publish this very valuable informa
tion as to why the paving hasn't been done in previous years, and to dispel 
the various myths about this situation.
7. CMU got an agreement from the City to pave the streets in Spring 
1970. The job would have been completed that spring with good weather 
conditions. The Carnival Committee was cautioned that any delay of 3 or 
4 days would jeopardize holding the races and as a result the committee 
voted NOT to have the paving done. Since we decided not to go as 
scheduled, we were presumably moved to the bottom of the list.
2. In the Fall of 1970, CMU again got an agreement that the City pave 
the streets in the spring. However, that winter Mayor Flaherty ended the 
contract with the current asphalt company, deciding the City would build 
its own. This wasnt completed until the end of last summer, and again the 
paving wasn t done.
3. CMU has again written the City for this spring and only time will 
tell. Mr. McCurdy urges student groups to make an effort in contacting 
the City about this; it will help.* * * *
A few (very few) people after reading last weeks editorial got the 
impression that Im down on racing. Quite the contrary, buggy racing is 
the biggest spectator sport on campus. Yes, it is beautiful and no, it is not 
appreciated ONLY by those who participate in the races themselves. / 
think the students and alumni of CM U appreciate all the time and effort 
spent on this sweepstakes and find it a very exciting event to attend. My 
major concern, as / guess is everyone elses, is that buggy remains a safe 
event for all of our friends who participate. So, / would like to stress an 
end to carelessness; this coupled with the safety procedures should bring 
about a safe race day.* * * *
TARTAN elections will be held on April 5 at 4:30 in the TARTAN 
office. Im stepping down as sports editor due to (sigh!) lack of time. / 
would appreciate anyone interested in reporting spring sports events to 
attend this meeting and talk with the new sports editor. Take an interest 
in writing good articles about our spring teams!
Jude
Photo: Jay Caras
Phi Kappa Theta Buggy
IM SWIMMING MEET RESULTS
200 yd. Medley Relay:
1. FRINGE (Moroz, Shumate, Sanders, 
Lee) 2:08.3
2. JOY BOYS (Schwartz, Bozzo, Hart, 
Heath) 2:10.0
50 yd. Freestyle:
1. JOY BOYS (Tulenko) 27.6
2. BTP-tie (Niles) 27.9
3. BTP-tie (Hutton) 27.9
4. PKT (Liska) 28.5
100 yd. Individual Medley:
1. FRINGE (Andrus) 1:15.7
2. FRINGE (Sanders) 1:28.7
3. IND. (Moultini) 1:47.5
4. BTP (Murphy) 1:58.2 
50 yd. Butterfly:
1. BTP (La Rochelle) 27.4
2. IND. (Swartzman) 30.5
3. JOY BOYS (Hart) 31.3
4. JOY BOYS (Bozzo) 36.5 
100yd Freestyle:
1. FRINGE (Lee) 58.1
2. BTP (LeMay) 1:00.8
3. JOY BOYS (Schwartz) 1:01.9
4. FRINGE (Rourk) 1:07.4
continued - page 15
Chucky Bond
Two weekends ago, eight of the Tartan 
swimmers went off to Slippery Rock Col
lege for the annual Penn-Ohio Swimming 
Championships. In case you didnt know, 
CMU is coming to the end of its last year 
of athletic competition in the Penn-Ohio 
Conference, this being a result of declining 
attitudes toward athletics in general here. 
(Actually what this means is since? CMU has 
found it difficult and embarassing to keep 
up with its athletic Joneses in the P-OC, 
the less competitive teams in the PAC look 
like a pretty groovy bunch of guys to play 
with next year.) For the CMU swimmers, 
lowever, the switch was a year too late. 
Going into the championships, it seemed 
that the Mermen could realistically expect 
to do no better than last year; that is, last 
place. Thats the way it went, too; Ashland 
on top, Clarion second, etc., etc. and CMU 
bringing up the rear. This is really n6 sur
prise considering the level of competition. 
To get an idea of the strength of the PennOhio Conference, consider the fact that at 
last years Penn-Ohios, Kent Schnake tied 
the CMU team record of 1:59.3 for the 
200 yd. free-style, but his time was only 
goo enough for ninth place in the event.
Okay, so youve got a swimming team 
with a final record of 1 win and 10 losses. 
Can you then look upon CMUs swimming 
program as a successful one? The view 
from here is that one can under the circum
stances, and this feeling is shared by swim
ming coach Steve Fagan. Were making 
steady improvement, Coach Fagan says. A 
lot of our guys did their best times ever 
during this past season. Its not that we 
arent improving at a good rate, but rather 
that the people that we come up against 
are improving twice as fast.
Well, part of that problem finds its solu
tion in the switch to PAC competition next 
year, but theres more to it than just the 
level of competition. The real issue is the 
derogatory attitude which the university 
has taken in regard to athletics, and theres 
no way to get around this. For instance, 
Ive been told that there is to be no in
crease in the Athletic Departments budget 
for next year. In laymans terms this means 
that, despite rising costs, there wont even 
be a token addition of funds to a program 
which saw more kids, and more teams than 
ever, compete in intra-mural basketball. 
Consequently, cut-backs are in order in the 
Athletic Dept.; a reduction in the money 
paid to IM referees, for example. Unless 
University policy changes, both intra-mural 
and intercollegiate athletics here will 
steadily decline. The IM board will find 
itself involved in even more hassles next 
year. And the inter-collegiate program? 
Sure, itll be alright for awhile, but sooner 
or later it will again have to deal with 
difficulties in keeping up with the competi
tion. Next time, whoever, there wont be a 
Vice-presidents athletic Conference to 
drop to.
There are various things which could 
help athletics here without putting anyone 
through a lot of changes. One is more 
financial aid; and not full athletic scholar
ships either. I dont support the free 
ride, says Coach Fagan, but why not 
have a certain number of work-study posi
tions designated for athletics? Often I find 
these small amounts are the difference be
tween a guy swimming and not swimming. 
If a kid qualifies as a student, and is a good 
athlete, I dont see why we cant give him a 
little help. This is probably true through
out the Athletic Department, but there are 
more specific things concerning the swim
ming team. And, they dont all pertain to 
money, as does the fact that the team is 
not generally financed for good meals after
away meets, and is usually obliged to eat in 
school cafeterias. For instance, the team 
could use more time in the pool. They 
presently get an hour and a half; Coach 
Fagan would like at least two hours. Also, 
there is a long wait before the team can use 
the pool. While most programs get under 
way in September and October, there is a 
University dictum here that the team can 
not use the pool until November 1st. 
Finally, more campus interest would be of 
help. Coach Fagan feels that the Mermen 
would have won at least three more meets 
with more guys on campus coming out for 
the team. But under continuing put-down 
of the Athletic Department, Its hard to 
be enthusiastic and even harder to make 
others enthusiastic.
Well, enough editorializing. How about 
the swimming season in retrospect, and 
whats the outlook for next year? From a 
philosophical point of view, the CMU pro
gram is ideally structured, in that it must 
of necessity measure success in terms of 
the improvement of the individual. By such 
a measure Coach Fagans Mermen had a 
good season despite a 1-10 record. Guys 
like Joe Waslewski improved over the year; 
Jim Cropcho broke the minute mark in the 
100-yd. freestyle; Schnake was voted Most 
Valuable Swimmer by the team; and the 
divers, Ohlson and Lawson, showed im
provement. Next year, the team record 
might also improve, but not by much un
less Coach Fagan gets himself some more 
horses. I need four or five good freshmen 
to really get things going, he says.
So, in case youre interested, next years 
co-captains will be Jim Siveck and Pete 
Hoysan. Next years competition will be 
the Presidents Athletic Conference. Per
haps next years record wont be 1-10, but 
it might not be 10-1 either.
MCKAY CHAMP?
Dan Streyle
Recently the two most important 
indoor meets in the country were held, the 
IC4A and NCAA championships. The 
results present a startling question. The 
winning time in the 600 at the IC4As was 
1:12.4 with 1:13.9 fast enough for fourth. 
In the nationals 1:11.3 was the first place 
time with 1:12.1 gaining sixth.
So what? The question I would like to 
ask is, where would CMUs Tony McKay 
have finished if he were allowed to com
pete? At the Delaware meet Tony ran 
1:11.0 and finished second to Dennis Walk
er of Adelphi. Tony has been timed in 
1:10.4 at the Pitt field house. Who won the 
440 at the IC4As-Dennis Walker. Tony has 
only been able to run twice this winter 
which also shows he is capable of faster 
times. It seems to me thatTony would have 
been a certain medal-winner and possibly 
national champion.
This is the real point of this article. 
CMU has many fine athletes and teams. 
Next year we will be competing in the 
PAC. Should we win conference titles we 
are eligible to go to the NCAA College 
Division championships. That is, we are 
eligible provided we are a member of the 
NCAA. I know that the soccer team is a 
favorite for the crown. Should we win and 
be restricted from playing, well-the same 
can be said for cross-country, football, 
track, basketball, swimming, wrestling, 
golf, etc. For the past few years the tennis 
team has been undefeated. Yet they have 
won absolutely no recognition. At the very 
least our athletes should be given a chance.
In the next few weeks we hope to stim
ulate action which will provide this oppo
rtunity. We would appreciate to hear your 
feelings and your support.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN, Tuesday, March 21, 1972 - Pagf 15
S^0 RE0EATS
To no ones surprise Salt and Pepper 
won the Intramural Basketball crown for 
the second consecutive year. The unconvin
cing manner in which they did it, however, 
was somewhat of a shock. They defeated 
the Wild Bunch in the finals 54-48 after 
taking a close game from GSIA in the semi finals. In both games Salt and Pepper 
seemed to lack the spark needed to ignite 
the most talented team in the school to 
decisive victories. When they didnt get the 
fast break their offense seemed stagnant. 
Against GSIA, Salt and Pepper was an over
whelming favorite, yet they found them
selves up by only a single point with four 
minutes left. Then they put their game 
1 together for the victory. In the champion
ship game Salt and Pepper pulled away 
from the Wild Bunch in the last three min
utes for the six point victory. Rich Mullins 
with 19 points, Dick Sehlin with 13 points, 
and Bob Sorrell with 12 points led the 
scoring for the school champions. Bob Atkison led the Wild Bunch with 18 points.
The Bunch went into the game as the 
crowds favorite due to their rough sche
dule. Including the final the Wild Bunch 
played five games in five days, two against 
Salt and Pepper, two against the Raiders, 
and one against 10 plus 2. They seemed to 
find a new hero every game. In their sec
ond game against the Raiders, the 
tie-breaking game for second place in the 
Lakers League, Thelps Evans hit the crucial 
baskets in the closing minutes. Against 10 
plus 2 in the semifinal game, Mike Horton 
and Paul Edwards paced the way. And in 
the championship game, Bob Atkison 
proved that Sorrell is not totally invincible. 
But when it was all over Salt and Pepper 
was in the winners circle again.
The championship game was played on 
IM night as a preliminary to the contest 
between the Pittsburgh Steelers Basketballers and the Intramural All-Stars. The 
Steelers extended the annual series record 
to 3-1 in their favor with a 67-59 victory.
The Steelers were paced by Dave Smith 
with 14 points, Preston Pearson with 10 
points, and draft choice John Lanier with 
15 points. One of the big highlights of the 
night for CMU fans was the appearance of 
coaches Sanfore Rivers and Louis Over
street in their formal attire. For the first 
time all year Bob Sorrell looked small on 
the basketball court, but he still led the 
All-Stars with 10 points. Dave Aber at 
58, 150 pounds, brought the crowd to its 
feet by sneaking up behind L.C. Green
wood at 65, 240 pounds, stealing the 
ball, and hitting a 20 foot jump shot. It 
was an enjoyable night for all. Unfortu
nately as usual CMU came out on the short 
end of the score.
In the Minor League playoff the Old 
Men upset the Morewood Gups. In the 
Intermediate League, the Roaches, paced 
by the outside shooting of Tom Lang and
GOODBYE
The CMU wrestling team will miss sen
ior Al Kohan for many reasons. Kohan 
organized a wrestling club at CMU four 
years ago as a freshman and kept the in
terest alive until the sport gained varsity 
status last year.
Kohan, co-captain of the team, was this 
seasons top point getter for the squad, and 
also had the best record. He outscored his 
opponents 96-65 and finished the season 
with an 8-4 record. The 134-pounder total
ed 44 team points while relinquishing only
13. He had five pins in his eight victories 
and has never been pinned himself in his 
two years of varsity wrestling.
Wrestling Coach Paul Steva has nothing 
but praise for this fine athlete, who de
voted so much time and effort to promote 
wrestling as a sport at CMU.
Photo: Ed Levine
IM Wrestling Champs
118Frank Carracciulo, grads.
126Keith Butler, ATO
134Steve Hoysan, SN
142Jim Lavin, SAE
150Eric Moss, DTD
158Lenny DeAngelo, ATO
167George Brinser, Grads.
177Dave Obarski, ATO
190John Evanoka, ATO
HWTJohn Sabol, ATO
Photo: Jay Caras
Tom Louhram, plus the boards work of the 
freshmen members of the CMU football 
team, defeated SAE B to win a very com
petitive playoff series.
I.M. Final Standings
1. Salt and Pepper
2. Wild Bunch
3. 10 plus 2
4. GSIA
Golf Try-outs: March 21, 23, 24. Will leave
from the gym at 12:15 p.m. Check with 
Mr. William Rogers, Coach.
Varsity Athletes: pick up varsity awards 
in the Athletic Office, Gym 102, as soon as 
possible.
50 yd. Backstroke:
1. BTP (La Rochelle) 31.2
2. JOY BOYS (Ross) 38.7
3. BTP (Sandusky) 42.6
4. FRINGE (Dominic) 45.5 
50 yd. Breastroke:
1. FRINGE (Schumate) 34.7
2. JOY BOYS (Tulenko) 35.3
3. PKT (Williams) 36.6
4. BTP (Rollins) 38.0 
200 yd. Freestyle:
1. BTP (LeMay) 2:30.4
2. IND. (Schwartzman) 2:41.0
3. FRINGE (Andrus) 2:59.4
4. JOY BOYS (Bozzo) 3:01.5 
200 yd. Freestyle Relay
1. FRINGE (Lee, Sanders, Moroz, Simin) 
1:49.8
2. BTP (La Rochelle, Hutton, Niles, 
LeMay) 1:50.7
3. JOY BOYS (Schwartz, Stevens, Hart, 
Tulenko) 1:56.4
4. PKT (Liska, Lees, Pechnyo, Williams) 
TEAM RESULTS:
1. FRINGE46
2. BTP38
3. JOY BOYS30
4. IND10
5. PKT5
Winner: ATO 
Runner up: Grads
50,000 JOBS
SUMMER EMPLOYMENT 
CAREER OPPORTUNITY 
PROGRAMS
The National Agency Of Student Employment Has Recently 
Completed A Nationwide Research Program Of Jobs Available To 
College Students And Graduates During 1972. Catalogs Which 
Fully Describe These Employment Positions May Be Obtained As 
Fol lows:
( ) Catalog of Summer and Career Positions Available
Throughout the United States in Resort Areas,
National Corporations, and Regional Employment 
Centers, Price $3.00.
( ) Foreign Job Information Catalog Listing Over 1,000
Employment Positions Available in Many Foreign 
Countries. Price $3.00.
( ) SPECIAL; Both of the Above Combined Catalogs With
A Recommended Job Assignment To Be Selected For 
You. Please State Your Interests. Price $6.00.
National Agency of Student Employment 
Student Services Division 
*35 Erkenbrecher 
Cincinnati, Ohio 45220

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16 - THE TARTAN - Tuesday, March 21, 1972
Dr. Sandy Relates 
Ecology and Sex
ecology may be a respectable term 
among conservationists, but women's liber
ation might well think otherwise, according 
to a Carnegie-Mellon anthropologist.
Peggy R. Sanday, assistant professor of 
anthropology in CMUs School of Urban 
and Public Affairs, recently completed a 
study showing ecology may be one of the 
primary causes of sex inequality.
Using data from 748 agricultural and
Need Cited 
For Health 
Services 
(continued)
Even among the 43 percent who rate 
their university health services as okay, 
recommendations continue to be made. 
For instance, Ms. Mary Scitres, President of 
Student Body, Indiana University, wrote 
that students are pressing for a 
gynecologist and for more attention to be 
focused on married families and their 
problems.
Abortion and abortion referral were 
cited infrequently. Obstetriciangynecologist Bernard Luck, MD, 
PARKMEDs Medical Director, views this 
as a healthy sign, pointing out, Despite 
the excellent medical safety statistics for 
the out-patient abortion procedure (under 
1 2 weeks), abortion should not be looked 
upon as a substitute for contraception. It 
is, at best a measure to be considered when 
unplanned pregnancies do take place 
because contraceptive methods have been 
ineffective.
states, Although this was not a formal 
study, the need for more accurate contra
ceptive information was so frequently 
stressed that we may conclude, at least on 
a preliminary basis, that ignorance and not  
indifference, or even promiscuity, is the 
prime cause for the high rate of abortion 
among college students.
Even when gains are made, the students 
continue to press for programs that are 
more responsive to their needs. For exam
ple, William R. Ray, Student Body Presi
dent, University of Denver, wrote, Some 
of the recommendations such as VD checks 
and for a gynecologist have been made 
time and time again. These have now been 
established recently in very modified form.
We shall, however, continue to push 
for staff changes, expanded facilities, birth 
control information and dispensing.
Marc Dennis Hiller, Chairman, Health 
Service Organization, University of Pitts
burgh, Oakland campus, wrote that sit-ins 
by feminists at the health clinic because a 
cutback in finances had curtailed the 
available ob-gyn services were pressuring 
the administration to take action.
Hiller, a December 1971 graduate, who 
will be entering medical school in 
September said, If there has to be a 
choice between limiting services because of 
financial problems, we do not feel that the 
limited area should be one in which there is 
the greatest need. The severity of ob-gyn 
surpasses that of dermatology.
In answer to the question,What are the 
main areas for which changes are being 
requested? the answer from Ms. Etta 
Magnusen, member of the Health Service 
Committee at the University of Minnesota 
was typical. Ms. Magnusen wrote, Women 
students have made demands for 
pap-smears at no extra charge (present 
charge is $4.00); pregnancy tests at no 
extra charge (present charge is $5.00, 
payable in advance); pos4-abortion 
check-ups and an abortion referral service.
hunting societies around the world. Dr. 
Sanday examined the status of women in 
these societies as shown by the extent to 
which they participated in economic activi
ties. She concludes: The strong associa
tion between womens contribution to eco
nomic activities, type of environment and 
type of agriculture indicates that ecology 
must be considered with the same serious
ness accorded previously to biological ex
planations of the unequal status of 
women.
Dr. Sanday presented a paper on her 
research at the recent, 70th annual meeting 
of the American Anthropological Associa
tion in New York City.
Professor Sanday feels the conclusions 
are significant for a modern industrial 
society. She says, This study sheds light 
on the origins of the present status of 
women inasmuch as agricultural and 
hunting societies were the historical ante
cedents of industrial societies.
Discussing the implications of her re
search to the womens liberation move
ment Dr. Sanday says,In the United 
States in the past women have not partici
pated significantly in economic activities, 
which I would suggest, is a precondition 
for gaining public status. In the past, 
women achieved a private stauts by mana
ging a large family. Today, a large family is 
not consistent with the widespread goals of 
providing children with a college educa
tion, achieving social mobility and material 
wealth. Furthermore, there is the increas
ing concern over the population explosion. 
As a result, more and more women are 
seeking self-fulfillment in the public do
main. Indoing so, many women must con
front prejudicial attitudes and the tenden
cy to be kept in subordinate positions. My
Dr. Sandays analysis of the cross-cultur
al data compiled by anthropologists in the 
ETHNOGRAPHIC ATLAS revealed that 
the way a society gains its livelihood direct
ly affects the degree of participation of 
women. Womens participation is highest, 
for example, where small gardens yield 
most of the food; it is lowest where the 
food is obtained mainly from hunting and 
fishing or from intensive farming.
study indicates that the equalization of the 
status of women will probably occur in 
societies where their energies supply a sig
nificant proportion of the total productive 
activity.
The type of subsistence activity, in turn, 
is related to the geographical area and its 
ecology. In general, the study found that 
womens participation is highest in Africa 
and the Insular Pacific, and lowest in the 
Mediterranean area, East Eurasia, North America, and South America. She was assist
ed in this study by Daniel Rosen of Brook
line, Mass., an undergraduate student in 
electrical engineering.
Dr. Sanday has been at Car
negie Mellon since 1966. Her various fel
lowship awards include a Mellon post-doc
toral fellowship at the University of Pitts
burgh, where she earned her Ph.D., and 
grants from the U.S. Office of Education 
and National Science Foundation. She is 
the author of numerous articles and is pres
ently working on a book entitled Sex 
Inequality: Origins, Consequences, and 
Hazards.
CU Cautions Students: 
Policy May Not Be Needed
Unless a college student has children, as 
a rule he should not buy life insurance. In 
fact, says the nonprofit Consumers Union, 
the last thing most college students need 
is life insurance.
the exception would be the breadwinner 
on whom children will be dependent until 
they grow up. Despite this atypical circum
stance for a collegian. CU (consumers 
union) says the life insurance agent has 
become a familiar figure on many cam
puses.
Bearing this out is an industry survey of 
more than 300 life-insurance companies 
which turned up 20 per cent with sales 
programs aimed at college students and 
young professionals who are not yet earn
ing enough to pay the premiums.
The interest on that five year loan? Its 
payable at an annual rate of 6 to 8 percent 
or more. And, says CU, in many plans the 
policyholder pays interest on the interest, 
too.
Isnt it difficult to sell a policy to some
one who cant afford it? Insurance men 
have their sales pitch so programmed to 
this hurdle that they can often turn it into 
a selling point. Says Consumers Union, 
they approach the premium paying pro
blem by offering to finance the first annual 
premium, and frequently the second, with 
a loan to be paid off perhaps five years 
later.
As an example of what life-insurance 
loans can cost, the nonprofit consumer or
ganization tells of a $10,000 policy sold by 
Fidelity Union Life of Dallas in 1970. The
21 year old student purchaser paid an an
nual interest rate of 8.5 percent. The com
pounded finance charge on the first year 
premium loan of $151 comes to $76.07.
From the creditors standpoint, such 
loans are among the safest imaginable, says 
CU. Its full report on the sale of life insur
ance to students, contained in the January
issue of Consumer Reports, explains why 
the lenders risk is so minimal.
One element involves a miniature en
dowment policy built right into the in
surance policy. At the end of five years, 
the insurance company gets most of the 
cash value in payment of the policcyholders debt.
The promissory note itself has built into 
it an acceleration clause, a typical feature 
of retail installment contracts. If the stu
dent fails to pay any premiums on time, 
the lender can demand immediate payment 
of the entire loan. With the promissory 
note, he can also readily obtain a court 
judgment ordering payment. 
Entitled Caveat Emptor on Campus, 1 
the CU report warns that as with most 
retail credit agreements, an insurance 
policy financing note may be impossible to 
cancel. Life insurance is customarily sold 
for a year at a time. When a student is 
persuaded to buy and sign a financing 
agreement, he is committing himself to buy 
a full years protection.
None of the policies or promissory ) 
notes examined by CU had a provision for 
refund of premiums during the first year. 
And, says CU, the policies examined tend
ed to be relatively expensive cash value 
policies with lots of extra-priced features.
Companies doing a big business in col
lege policies often set up special agents in 
college towns. They like to recruit as sales
men popular campus figures such as fraier- > 
nity leaders, recently graduated star 
athletes, former coaches and even faculty 
members and administrators.
One professor at Michigan State Uni
versity is cited as reporting some students 
he interviewed didnt know they were sign
ing a contract committing them to buy 
insurance. Some thought they were signing 
a medical form. Others thought they were | 
getting the first years insurance free. All 
were being sued by the same insurance 
company.
THE TARTAN 
NEEDS HELP
TO FILL BLANK SPACES LIKE THIS ONE!!!
IF YOU CAN WRITE: NEWS
FEATURES
SPORTS
ENTERTAINMENT 
OR IF YOU CAN DO SOME RESEARCH,
COME VISIT
