; I
fi tartan
WELCOME
September 3, 1975 Volume 76 Number 1 Special Edition
FROSH CLASS LARGEST IN CMU HISTORYHOUSING ICONVERTS LOUNGES
by George Aromatorio
Over 300 more students will reside in 
university housing than did last year, due 
to the largest freshman class in CMUs his
tory. Freshman enrollment is 29% higher 
than in 1974. with over 1100 students in 
the Class of 1979.
The undergraduate housing capacity at 
CMU is 1487. This year, 1804 students 
have been housed  a 21% increase. Due to 
this large increase, some unusual measures 
have been taken by the Office of Resident 
Life. Dormitory lounges have been conver
ted into rooms; the capacity of some exist
ing rooms was changed to help accommo
date more students, including tripling some 
rooms in Mudge Graduate House. Certain 
staff and married students' housing has also 
been taken over. Even a few areas normally 
used for storage have been cleaned up and 
converted into rooms.
In spite of these measures. Dean of 
Resident Life Charles Williams emphasized 
that only feasible spaces have been used. 
He was generally pleased with the results, 
saying that ...everyone in our community 
contributed something to our housing ef
fort.
Dean Williams expressed a few concerns. 
He believed that, while there is still an ade
quate amount of lounge and recreational 
space for students, a top priority will be to 
return some of the converted ones to the 
students. Williams said that this process 
could possibly begin as early as the second 
week of September, depending on the 
number of no shows and transfers. Wil
liams was confident that all rooms will be 
ready on time, although some furniture 
was extremely late in being delivered.
The Dean also said that he has drawn up 
his own lists of men and women to be giv
en priority in changing rooms. These lists 
were compiled by considering ...who is in
Alum Heads H&SS
by Gary Singer
AMS and GSIA alumnus John I*. Crecine has been named Dean of the College 
of Humanities and Social Science*, suc
ceeding Erwin Steinberg who is returning 
to fulltline teaching in the English Depart
ment.
President Richard Cyert commented 
that the new dean would take the College 
in new directions and to new heights, 
making it out kind of H&SS College  
Cyert further stated in his recent letter to 
students arul their parents that, I antici
pate that under his (Crectnes) leadership 
the College of Humanities and Social Sci
ences will itrergthen its position and total 
impact at Carnegie -Mellon." The president 
continued. The College will hive more ba
lance between the social sciences and the 
humanities than ui the past."
Crecine, who will not be assuming his 
new post until 1 January 1976, will be vi(Ctntimmrd 4)
the worst spaces." These lists are his own, 
but Dean Williams wants to get other opin
ions from the Campus Service Board and 
Student Government.
Dean Williams was also questioned about the possibility that the larger class 
size will continue for the next few years. 
He expressed the hope that the present 
housings situation will not be If the trend 
toward increasing enrollment continues,
Williams noted, there are several options. 
The obvious possibilities are building and 
remodeling to increase housing capacity.
Williams emphasized that .WeU have 
to do something, if its no more than tell
ing people we cant house you or we 
shouldnt house you. He did express the 
hope that this years added revenue will 
help to keep down the cost of a dormitory 
room in the future. on ^ )0
Dim of Rtudnt Lit* Ct-arlas William* dncuwd overcrowded conditions in University he using.
Skibo Renovations Await Completions
by Dave Groupe
Major Skibo renovations, discussed last 
semester by students and the administrak>n, are not yet completed and will cause 
rhe opening of the new Art Store to be 
postponed at least until Sept. 8.
No art supplies will be available on cam
pus at least until that date. The Art and 
Design Department faculties have been ad
vised of this; they have agreed to be lenient 
about demands for supplies tor the first 
week. Irene Daugherty, Book Store mana
ger, plans to have supplies needed by 
freshman Art and Design students made 
available first (on the assumption that up
perclassmen will probably have their basic 
supplies).
Ms. Daugherty plans to move art sup
plies into the Skibo store as soon as the 
carpet has been laid, and hopes to have the 
whole store operating by late September. 
Site is hampered by the heavy demand her 
staff faces for the first week or two of the 
semester at the Book Store. There is also a 
security problem, until the doors and win 
dows of the new store can be installed.
When the Art Store has been completed, 
K will have longer hours than the Book 
Slix*. from 8 to 8 Monday through Thurs
day. Fridays, the store will close at 5 pm; 
Saturday hours will be 10 am to 3 pm. 
Further renovatk>ns to the Book Store will 
be considered after the Art Store is settled 
and operating.
The new Art Store will be located in the 
downstairs area, to the left of the entrance 
from the Skibo parking lot, along with two 
large meeting rooms and a smaller confer
ence room. The student organizations who
continued on page 10IK
Bookstore Manager Irene Daugherty ptam to O 
pen ttte Maw Art Store on  awahouse fcaato as 
,oon a* pese; somare around Sap* .
291 INCREASE 
OVER 74
Freshman enrollment is up 29% over last 
year with this years 1100 plus first year 
class the largest ever enrolled in the Uni
versitys history.
Bill Elliott, Vice Provost for Enrollment 
Planning, stated that the increased size of 
the current Freshman Class was semiplanned Admissions accepted about 10% 
more students than it did in* 1974, but El
liott accounts for the large increase with the 
fact that more students accepted Carnegie - 
Mellon not that Carnegie - Mellon accepted 
more students.
In announcing the record breaking Fresh
man Class size, Un'versity President Richard 
M. Cyert claimed that the quality of the in
coming students, based on the median high 
school averages and College Board scores, 
matches and exceeds that of last years fresh
men. Elliott reiterated this, saying that the 
qualifications of the students were not going 
down but that a larger number of the appli
cants were qualified.
Applications for entrance into CMU were 
up by 11%, numbering 3,450 as compared to 
last years 3,100. Applications for CIT MIS 
were up 10-11%; 7-8% for CFA; and re
mained about the same for H&SS.
CMUs increased enrollment is consistent 
with a national trend. The Chronicle of 
Higher Education reported in the August 18 
issue that there is a 4% increase in the na
tions fall enrollment over last years.
10,619,000 students are currently enrolled 
in the nations colleges with 9,328,000 pur
suing a degree (a 3.4% increase over the 
9,023,446 degree students attending colleges 
last year).
Elliott reported that the university even
tually wants to graduate 1000 seniors each 
year which means accpeting about 1200- 
1300 freshmen. He stated that it was not his 
intention to make this jump in numbers im
mediately, but he had made a conscientious
continued on page 876 Tuition Up $20C
by Bruce Lind ay
The cost of attending CMU will go up 
by $200 next year. Dr. Cyert has an
nounced. Tution wil increase to $3,100, 
the third rise since 1970.
The increase is a result of the decreasing 
real value of the Universitys endowment 
and the severe effects of inflation to its 
operating costs.
In a report to the president, the Tui
tion Committee recommended a $200- 
$400 increase in tuition with 40% being 
Tunneled back into financial aid. They felt 
that too much of the return on the 
endowment was being spent and that some 
should be re-invested to equalize the 
inflationary shrinkage. The endowment 
once at $130 million is now $103 million, 
a 20% decrease.
Richard Van Horn, Vice President for
a* Pmf* 5)

---------------------------------------------------

Paae 2THE TARTAN-SeDtember 3. 1975
editors note
Expanding Dilemma
Coming to CMU after a summer of being removed from 
the campus and academic scene can be a disquieting jolt 
for upperclassmen and freshmen alike.
The campus immediately welcomes us with quite a bit of 
activity. Even a quick glance around campus (or at least 
through this issue of the TA RTAN) reveals that CMU has in
creased its student population and has modified its facilities 
accordingly. Housing is the most obvious area affected: with 
lounges converted into rooms and occupancies increased to 
the extreme of eight people living in one ward in Scobell.
But even setting aside the current uncomfortable housing 
conditions, an increase in size has serious implications for 
both the current operating and future situation of Carnegie - 
Mellon University.
We are told that the housing problem will solve itself  
at least by second semester  when attrition will open 
up spaces and relieve the strain on the system. An important 
question, though, is whether or not CMU intends to interfere 
with normal attrition rates. Architecture, for example, which 
had 47 students in last year's freshman class, is notorius for 
losing a large portion of that class to forces other than 
natural attrition. One can't even imagine what this de
partment might do with its current class, which numbers 104.
The admissions profile supposedly contains enough infor
mation on a potential student to predict whether or not that 
student will survive academically at CM U. Granted that there 
is a certain amount of error in these predictors, there is no 
excuse for, and whats worse the University (or any depart
ment thereof) would be abusing its power by, flunking out 
all but the most superior students in order to bring the class 
size down to a more normal level. One can only hope that 
CMU will not resort to such a tactic.
The universitys expansion plan is also caught in a para
dox where the desire for growth encounters the projection 
that the number of 17 to 18 year olds in the population will 
decline by 1983. On the one hand, Vice Provost for Enroll
ment Planning William Elliott stated that he would like to 
graduate 1000 studens per class. Given the current attrition 
rate, this would necessitate enrolling 12 to 13 hundred fresh
men each year. On the other hand President Cyert states that 
it would be foolish to build more facilities which would even
tually stand dormant when erollment decreased along with 
the population of 18 year olds.
This paradox leaves CMU with an ineviable choice: either 
eight years of*sub-standard housing or a bleak future plagued 
by overexpansion. A decision must be made; either abandon 
the plan for increased enrollment, or build facilities which 
can handle the increase.
An increase in the size of the student body also puts
an additional strain on what in some cases are already in
adequate support services. A seemingly trivial - but re
presentative - example is the current lack on this campus 
of any room large enough to accommodate a significant por
tion of the student body. Skibo ballroom would hardly 
surffice and 2210 has already been outgrown for such func
tions as the weekly AB movies. In a market place where it is 
ever more difficult for any private school to survive, "quality 
education is by far the most important inducement that 
CMU can offer. CMU will not survive if it fails to provide ade
quate facilities.
Given that this years enrollment increase is due more to 
chance than to active planning, the Administration can only 
be commended on its handling of the matter. Students were 
informed of the situation, both personally and through their 
elected leaders. University officials have demonstrated a real 
concern that present conditions be as comfortable as possible 
and that the situtation be returned to normal as soon as pos
sible.
In the case of further expansion though, the administra
tion owes its present and future students more than an equili
brium equation. CMU must never loose sight that its major 
concern is people, not the bottom line on an accounting 
sheet.
Gary Singer
letters
Editor,
The second annual premium 
on my insurance policy just 
came due, and 1 was suddenly 
struck horrified by the thought 
that there is probably a salesman 
running around campus with my 
name on a list of satisfied cus
tomers, Id like, through the 
TARTAN, to tell anyone who 
may see that list or others like it, 
that it aint so.If I knew then 
(or bothered to find out), etc.
I found out enough in a few 
hours reading to change my 
opinion of whole life insurance 
drastically. Unfortunately, I 
found out $200 to late. I
strongly recommend that 
anyone considering the purchase 
of such a policy spend a few 
hours finding out why it is the 
wrong thing to do. Later, with 
the pressures of wrapping up the 
school year out of the way, 
there will be time to find out 
how better to invest your 
money.
Surprisingly, the authors 
which I have read are quite uni
form in their specific suggestions 
for getting the most out of 
the life insurance dollar. The 
math is not very overwhelming, 
but the amount of money is.
Let me emphasize that I was
taken not by some rinky-dink 
operation, but by one of the lar
gest and most prestigious com
panies in the industy. Thats no 
coincidence, as it turns out.
This letter may be too late to 
do this years graduating class 
much good, but apparently it will 
remain timely for some years to 
come.
A1 Taylor 
EE 75
The TARTAN welcomes com
ments from any member of the 
CMU community. Letters to the 
Editor are due by noon Wednes
day during the week prior to pu
blication
tartan
Volume 76September 3,1975Number 1
Editor in Chief
Gary Singer
News Ed tor: Charles Mitch
Entertainment Editor.Mark Chimsky 
Trapeze Editor Greg McKenna 
Photograp>y Editor:Elliot Popowitz 
Sports Editor Eleanor Zimmerman
Special Edition Editor:David Groupe
Copyrighted 1975 by the Carnegie -Mellon University 1ARTAN. The Editorial Beard reserves the 
right to edit or withold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded by 
Student Government of Carnegie -Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial 
Offices Skioo 50; (412) (412) 621-2600 ext. 656. Business Offices: Skibo 52; (412) 682-4557.
All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANSeptember 3, 1975-Page 3
news comment
2
m
THINK SNOW 
or 
CRANBERRY-MONEY 
HEADS DOWNHILL
by Escherichia Coli
Once upon a time very re
cently, Cranberry -Money Uni
versity needed a new Dean of In
humanities and Somewhat Sci
ences (I&SS).
So Warden Arnold Von 
Weber, who had custody of 
I&SS, convened a search com
mittee to search and search and 
search until it found the ap
plicant that Von Weber and his 
assistant, CMU President Dr. 
Richard Cipher, wanted to hire.
This hitherto secret transcript 
of the committees historic final 
meeting tells how it all came about.
The scene: Somewhere in 
Warner Hall.
The time: Just before fi
nals.
The cast: Warden Von We
ber; President Cipher; Vice 
President Dick Sidewalks Van 
Business; no students; and no 
faculty members except Dr. 
Stearn Wheeler, who had to be 
invited because he had all the ap
plicants resumes.
Cipher: Now as you all know,
I consider it highly important 
that we select an applicant who 
can not only run I&SS but also 
really help us attract athletes to 
enroll at CMU. For, as -you 
know, attracting athletics is cru
cial to our plans to pack so 
many students in the dorms that 
we qualify for a federal slumclearance grant. Besides, its a 
lot cheaper for me to have a hotshot football team here at CMU 
than to have to buy season tic
kets to the Steelers.
Van Business: Id just like to 
make sure that none of these ap
plicants own dogs.
Cipher: Certainly, certainly. 
Well, Dr. Wheeler, shall we have 
the first candidate?
Wheeler: Well, now here we 
have a resume from Dr. Highly 
Visible of the Berkeley English 
department. Hes published two 
well-received books of critical 
essays on the influence of the 
Arab Oil Embargo on the works 
of Herman Melville .. .
Von Weber: Is he an econo
mist?
Van Business: He doesnt 
own a dog, does he?
Wheeler: Well, he does hold 
a professorship in English. And 
this little photograph he inclu
ded in his application shows 
some animal hair on his lapel.
Van Business (studying the 
photograph closely): No, thats 
cat hair, no doubt about it. Hes 
OK.
Wheeler: As for your special 
concern, Dr. Cipher, he men
tions here that hes willing to 
coach intramural ping-pong.
Cipher: Ping pong, eh? Gee, 
I dont know. Somehow I cant
see that atti acting many athletes 
to CMU. Besides, now that weve 
turned all the dormitory lounges 
into rooms for extra students, 
nobodys going to be able to 
play ping pong any more, any
way. Better go on to the next 
candidate.
Wheeler: This one is Dr. Na
tional Reputation from Stanford 
History department . . .
Van Business: Does he own 
a Dog?
Von Weber: Is he an econo
mist?
Wheeler (staring sternly at 
both of them): He won the 1971 
Political Science Professors Con
ference Award for his mono
graph analysing the causes of the 
Yom Kippur War, and he says 
that while he's very eager to 
assume the duties of directing 
our college, he isnt interested in 
athletics at all.
Cipher: Why, thats prepos
terous! We want somebody to 
help us attract more students. 
How does he expect to do that? 
By offering a good history de
partment, I suppose? Weve got 
to have an athlete. Whos the 
next candidate?
Wheeler: Well, heres a guy 
called Gerald R. Hoover from 
Washington, D.C. says he has 
no formal experience as a college 
teacher, but has extensive back
ground in management, chiefly 
executive positions, including 
public speaking and fund raising.
Von Weber: Is he an econo
mist?
Wheeler: He claims he is, al
though one of his references, Dr. 
Arthur Burns, says Hoover 
doesnt know the first thing 
about the subject.
Van Business: He doesnt
own a dog does he?
Wheeler: I believe he does, 
although if you look at this pho
to youll notice there isnt a sin
gle animal hair on his lapels.
Van Business: His wife takes 
care of his suits and ties herself, 
no doubt.
Wheeler: And youll be happy 
to note. Dr. Cipher, that hes in
tensely interested in coaching 
skiing. In fact, he says he can 
provide our students with free 
transportation to Vail, Colorado 
in a large blue Boeing 707 every 
weekend during the season.
Cipher: Wow, thats perfect! 
Can you imagine all the kids 
well attract with a top-notch 
ski program? I can hear the ad 
campaign already: My heart is 
on the slopes... 
Wheeler: Theres just one pro
blem, Dr. Cipher. This Gerald R. 
Hoover says he has to be in 
Washington, D.C. on business on 
weekdays at least through Novvember 1976. After that, 
though, he says theres a good 
chance hell be available to us 
full time.
Cipher: Hire him! Just think 
of all those tuition-paying fresh
men.
Von Weber: But Dr. Cipher, 
isnt there a problem with hir
ing a man who cant work full 
time on the job until a year after 
hes hired.
Cipher: Who cares? We can 
still put his name on all bro
chures as if he were actually 
here. Maybe this sounds even 
better: My heart is in the 
Slalom. .
Editor's Note: Mr. Coli is a hu
man parasite who resides in the 
gut.
View from Warner Hall
I want to welcome all of you, freshmen, upperclassmen 
and graduate students, to the campus. It is a pleasure to 
see the campus alive again. There is always a lot of research 
activity during the summer, but the campus is not the 
same without students.
Those of you who were here last year will immediately 
recognize that there are significantly more students on 
campus this year. It has been one of my aims to increase 
the size of the student body as long as we could do so 
without reducing the intellectual quality of Carnegie - 
Mellon. Universities get into trouble when the size of the 
student body is out of balance with size of the faculty. We 
have faced, and still do, two alternatives at this University. 
We can maintain the size of the student body at the rela
tively low level existing for the last four or five years and 
reduce the size of the faculty, or we can increase the stu
dent body and maintain the size of the faculty. I favor the 
second alternative because it means better utilization of 
our facilities and of our faculty. In discussing this matter 
with administrative officers, deans, faculty, and trustees, I 
found general agreement with my position. We all 
recognize that this University has so much to contribute 
that it should not be contracting. Further, it is not clear 
that a contracting organization can reach a healthy equili
brium. With the current size of the student body and the 
faculty this University is on a sound basis.
At the same time, I realize that this strategy causes pro
blems. Some of the costs of the larger student body are 
being paid by students in terms of living in more crowded 
conditions. We have been working hard to educe the dis
comfort from crowding in dormitories as much as possible.
I am certain that if you will be patient solutions will be ra
pidly forthcoming to any serious problems. My main con
cern is that we maintain the quality of our education and 
my investigations give me assurance that this will be done.
I would be pleased to discuss either cf these problems (and 
as always, any others) with any group of students that so 
desires.
There is a longer-run problem that we face in building 
more dormitory facilities. That problem stems frorr. the 
projected decrease in the number of 17 and 18 year olds in 
our society beginning in 1983. Thus, we get intc the bind 
of wanting more students now to maintain a stable situa
tion, but being hesitant because of the propulation projec
tions to build new dormitories. There are some satisfactory 
alternatives to these problems, which I will be discussing 
with various policy advisory groups and the long-range 
planning committee during the coming year.
We are pleased that so many students have selected 
Carnegie -Mellon University. I want to do everything 
possible to make certain that the campus experience is a 
satisfactory one for each of you. We want the intellec
tual and social environment here to be one in which our 
students can develop into outstanding citizens who can 
contribute to the welfare of all.
Richard M. Cyert 
President, Carnegie -Mellon University
r-KEEP CMU1
INFORMED
JOIN THE
TARTAN
first general staff meeting
Wednesday, Sept. 3, 8:30
Skibo 50All are welcome

---------------------------------------------------

paae 4THE TARTAN-Septemher 3. 1975
ANNOUNCEMENTS
The fall Human Sexuality Lecture program
has also been developed into a 9 unit 
course option. Anyone interested in signing 
up for this course should contact Dr. Pa
mela Freeman, Psychology Department, 
Baker Hall. ^
Administration and Management Science
students will meet in the GSIA audi
torium on Tuesday afternoons at 4:30. 
Freshmen will meet Tuesday,. Sept. 9; 
Sophmores Sept. 16; Juniors, Sept. 23; 
and Seniors, Sept. 30.
Women interested in Varsity Tennis
meet Wednesday, Sept. 3 at 4:30 pm 
in the Women's gymnasium.
The Admissions Office is seeking the ac
tive participation of CMU students in its 
current tour guide activities. Tour guides 
conduct campus tours for prospective stu
dents and their parents. Such tours enable 
the visitors to gain some insight into what 
our university offers from a person who is 
involved directly in that college experience. 
We welcome your interest in this program 
and encourage you to stop in and speak 
with Gaye in the Admissions Office, 1st 
floor , Warner Hall.
The annual fall training program for new
Birthright volunteers will open Wednesday 
evening, Sept. 10. Birthright is an emergen
cy pregnancy service assisting the distressed 
pregnant woman with alternatives to abor
tion. Training sessions will be taught by 
experienced professionals. Sessions will be 
held in Oakland, at the Friends Meeting 
House, 4836 Ellsworth Avenue, at 7:45 
Sessions are open to the public. For more 
information cal 621-1988.
The Pittsburgh Laboratory Theatre will
present "Exit the King", a ritual-based 
on the test of Eugene Ionesco, on Fri
days and Saturdays, Sept. 19-20, 26-27 and 
October 3-4, 10-11, 17-18, 24-25. Perfor
mances begin at 8:30 pm. The Pittsburgh 
Laboratory Theatre is located at 3300 
Fifth Avenue, Oakland. Seating is limited 
and reservations can be made by calling 
621-2876.
As you can see, the TARTAN serves
both as the main information source 
on. campus as well as a public forum 
for various campus and community is
sues. We- invite you to become part 
of our staff and join with us in com
municating with CMU. Please come 
down and see us  Skibo 50-52 or 
cal 682-4557, 621-2600 extensions
656 or 481.
Registration for adult education classes
will be held at Carnegie Institute on 
September 3, 4,5, and 6 from 9 am to 4:30 
pm, and eveneings from 6 to 9 pm. 
Morning, afternoon, and evening sessions 
are scheduled fro a 12-week period begin
ning on September 8 and continuing 
through December 6. There will be vari
ous art and crafts classes. For further 
information, call 622-3291 or 622-3288.
The CMU Child Care Center is licensed for
45 full time children and services students, 
faculty and employees of CMU. The cen
ter is open to children between the ages of 
three and six and hours are from 7:30 - 
5:30. There are still a few opeings for fall 
enrollment and further information about 
the center can be obtained by calling 
Marsha Poster, Director, at 687-6394.
Graduate assistantships and scholarships
in Communication and Technical Writing 
are offered to qualified students by 
Rennsselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, 
New York. Each assistantship provides 
a tuition grant of -12 credit hours per 
semester and stipend ranging between 
$2400 and $3000. Graduate assistants 
in the programs are assigned to teaching or 
to reasearch projects related to teaching. 
The program leads to a Master of Science 
Degree. For more information write to 
the Chairman, Robert W. Elmer, 
Department .of Lanquage, Literature and 
Communication, Rennsselaer Polytechnic 
Institute, Troy N.Y. 12181.
The "Luncheon Forum Series" formerly
developed and sponsored by the Activities 
Board is now looking for a group of inter
ested students to continue it. Anyone 
interested should contact Pat Aerni, chair
person of the Activities Board, or the De
partment of Student Activities.
The Bach- Chcir of Pittsburgh begins re
hearsals for it's '75-'76 concert season on 
Tuesday, September 9. The fall program 
will be Mozart's "Coronation Mass" and 
the Faure "Requiem." Rehearsals are held 
each Tuesday evening from 8-10 pm at 
Winchester-Thurston, Ellsworth and Morewood Aves. in Shadyside. New singers are 
welcome to audition from 7:30-8:00. 
Tenors are expecially needed. For informa
tion call 371-2671 or 531-3517.
Campus Program Planning is currently
preparing a "Point, Counterpoint" pro
gram. Any students with any ideas on 
issues or format for this program should 
contact Ms. Susan Christian, Skibo 103.
So you want to meet people?
The TARTAN affords its staff members 
the unique opportunity of meeting ad
ministrators and other students. Come 
down and talk with use at Skibo 50-52. 
Or call anytime: 682-4557 or 621-2600 
extensions 656 or 481.
Students 18-22 getting Social Security
checks should report changes in their 
earnings, school enrollment, and marital 
status to social security. Students can con
tinue to get payments to age 22 as long 
as they remain full-time students and. un
married.
Is Sports your bag?
The TARTAN needs interested students 
to join its Sports Department and Jei 
CMU know what its athletics department 
is up to. Don't only play in it, write about 
it to. Call 682-4557 or ^21-2600 
extension 656 or 481. Even better, come 
down to Skibo 50-52 and lets talk.
CLASSIFIEDS
Body Copy Typesetting Available at
very inexpensive rates. Done on the 
latest * IBM Electronic "Selectric" 
Composer. Variety of Typefaces 
available in 6-11 points. Make that 
next project really attractive. Call 
the TARTAN at 682-4557 or campus 
extension 656 or 481. We'll do 
your job fast and we'll do it right.
HP 45 in excellant condition for sale.
$200 including all original packagir^ 
and instructions. Price is negotiable. 
Call 682-4557 or 441-5211 and ask 
for Gary.
WONDERING what
on your first Weekend
WANDER down to the first 
COFFEEHOUSE
(It's something special to start things right!)
Thurs., Fri.( Sat. Sept. 4-6 
9 P.M. to midnight 
Wherrett Room in Skibo
CMU
Free refreshments and lots of good music

---------------------------------------------------

I nt I ;f i ;tarneptember J,ny/bPage b
Enrollment Re-organized
#
i *
>
$
41'
4)
by Patty Aerni
Commenting on yesterdays enrollment 
procedure, Vice Provost for Enrollment 
Planning, William F. Elliott claimed, It 
may not look organized but it is.
Elliott* explained that the main reason 
behind the set up in the gym was to group 
together all the resource people that 
students have to see in order to enroll. The 
3-D cards (Demographic Data Documents) 
are designed to allow the students to up
date the information that the University 
has on its records. But the enrollment pro
cess is not yet in its final form; the basic 
structure will probably remain the same in 
the future but several modifications will be 
made.
To upperclassmen, tnis new process pro
bably represents only one more change in a 
series of ever-changing enrollment proce
dures. But this year, there have been 
several major changes. What was formerly 
called pre-registration is now Registration. 
This change in terminology was made to 
indicate the more serious need for students 
to give the Registrar an idea of what 
courses they want to take, so the Registra 
can make plans for extra sections, changes 
in time and/or rooms.
This plan has not worked to a great ex
tent for several reasons. Many people did 
iot bother to register at all. Among the 
2281 returning undergraduates, 274 did 
not register in the spring. 299 registered 
for less then 36 units, but Elliott feels that 
many of these were Fine Arts majors who 
could not register for their full course load 
because the schedule of the classes in their 
department was not available at the time of 
registration. Elliott stressed the need for 
all departments to have their course listings 
ready for registration in order for the en
rollment process to work smoothly and 
quickly.
Elliott stated that if most students 
schedules are correctly assembled by 
Enrollment Day, it is a quick procedure to 
become officially enrolled in the 
University as a student. Students who have 
to settle other related problems conbills, housing food service, and financial 
aid will find these services all grouped in 
one area for their convenience. With this 
more efficient procedure, Elliott planned 
to enroll undergraduates at a rate of 187 
every half hour, except during meal times 
when the number was cut in half. Hope
fully, waiting in long lines could be 
avoided.
Anticipating registration and enrollment 
procedures for the spring semester, Elliott
feels that there will be few changes. The 
old systems had been patchwork. We hope 
we have designed a system we dont have 
to change every time. One change, which 
was not ready in time to go into effect this 
semester, will allow students to add and 
drop courses after registration and cut 
down on those changes oecessary on En
rollment Day.
Looking ahead even further, Elliott is 
considering instituting a plan he terms 
interactive scheduling. This plan would 
involve letting students pick the courses 
they want and the times they want to have 
classes. This information would be turned 
into the Registrar who would try to fit the 
classes into the times the student requested 
for his classes. The student would then be 
given a schedule worked out as best as pos
sible. He would then again have the option 
of replanning his schedule if he was not 
satisfied. This system would require much 
more communication between students 
and the Registrar, but Elliott feels more 
communication is what is needed. He 
hopes to have some type of interactive 
scheduling process ready next spring 
/or enrollment for Fall 1976.
But no new process comes into being 
without several problems and foul ups. 
In the case of yesterdays enrollment, 
a mistake was made in the address labels 
used to mail Enrollment Instructions, and 
Time Card, and 4200 pieces of mail were 
sent out with only 4 digit zip. codes. 
Besides that, while randomizing the time 
assignments for Enrollment Day by using 
the ninth digit of every students Social Se
curity Number, any student whose last 
digit was a 0 lost the 0 to the computer 
and ended up with an eight digit Social Se
curity Number. But Elliott felt these mis
takes were only a part of the learning pro
cess and commented that he just hoped 
to hell the thing works.
Elliott declared that the add/drop pro
cedure after Enrollment Day would remain 
the same as before. Only the actual 
add/drop form would be changed in order 
to cut out some of the needless former pa
perwork.
Elliott also claimed that the University 
is not planning at this time to charge stu
dents extra for overloads over a certain 
number of units. He felt it was a duty of 
students advisors and departments to help 
a student decide how heavy a course load 
he could academically carry. He does not 
want to punish those who are able to carry 
a heavier load by charging them more for 
it.
Quality mechanical and bodywork 
done on your car at reasonable rates
Special to the Faculty, Students and Staff of CMU - a 
10% discount on all work done in September.
Do It Your Selfers:
Need a garage space to work on your car? Come down 
and see us about our hourly stall & lift rentals. 
Mechanic on duty to help with your Problem' 
problems.
Call Frank-621-3940
or stop by the Center for Entrepreneural Development*
4516 Henry Street, Pgh. 15213 
(near the Mellon Bank at 5th & Craig)
* The Center for entreprenuiral development 
is associated with Carnegie-Mellon University.
'S
TUI* AHBMtHT >
icoKt Ln C man
CSU IF veu B0NT orj am Hu* <
TO CMKft IT (jr. <It* ihwng anV!.
Gxt, itm Stme 
I wee auiN6 IV
DON'T iu/MC I COLAS
WM A srtAiom t
UHC HON t* ItXJ fc1 00 |/7f^rYbwT] 'Vi UtE*... f
H*U. MOM NK> MD. I&ue Wn MKur weEAJD Of THIS LfTTf.. j I Mr  ~r 
WEWLCOEM or
1WE **l&fT OH, WHY 
CENt tw m A MUW iA/nf and ft/r yau? . '*>SfN unr**Closer >JJ CAti'r APS Txrif cwotfwL, 
iCMTCHNGi MU' 
DON'T i<K) 6er AY Trretvama'
t iwi wan*TV. iauvoum ruemc mumi 
>-1 ON If? T~Hew s w\ADIM6 W. \ 
HAC 1** ^*ST N 3 PCCKi flpntwtf 'KR XT
CUM 'i tm\c* a*'
r \ CO*/7 nr ON 1
* Thessch;nodi  ____A
I Dom cyow If Ahtwn6 cam es UtlJO Tie mu in m weAfr,
^[cnttfS^NtAmiCr\
uUAvE TP 01* SPME *r\/*i0Ms npi h
HOWAffO, Wi V unit Tumb N
L1/7TuGTiDf;' }t>4 BfAStf1
Oft, am *45 nr neu L
TV*l **irFB HAKE WU ^ > TlKUfr ABOJT 
I A MIMER MC0tL?r-r'
(W SISTER \MAHK V 
' A 0UNMY RABftn- ^ 1 WfWTUt SCMOOl
ct.eet n tsu-m*-WMRJE am 1 d
to 6rr a Niy^me. scuOOt <xcv on n
rn. TUAli MY All fontr PP4 fflntcnaN - H2 r*MS Amo NOME
J SU(K)lt> Of 9*E _
HJAt ______'
1* GOUC, tD (7#K\ 
And PICK UP A Btt-T W. 
VDO WATCM TWAT fBi wer Tfe _y
YK rw\ 
0DU6WT A ma6
You HUM'r
WAVE K> JUfAK 
A B<6 MHfNexj vein* asm
fSjMAi BIKE 7)
O v erme SOMf oos 
J WKl BE A njAOlli'wEAiwy rAinitn. sjroNiv m '
fj-J FbR A tudnwilyh lt>  ioAcrwE eii1 OHIMATt jim? If-'/1 * C*r n wie frv wej
' stuco i ryCofniti 'sCa I eotmx > 
a ten, pitct <* c bIyy
r Gro SfAMf/ r"
A wiCKiE
BEK I RECORD ft I 
KveeiTr tve PEhcati 
fWT' SiWrASlfS WAT < PAuce tulspa /v*v ufAO  r AVE lb (*T iAf r-'
, PA PC? rJ x ott
9tUTiO*l^\P 
HAS GOT t
THE B0O*.fiatg 
AS A 
AA CMIHt liyv. i umkrstamo
THPrUE HAVIN6 
, a tKCiAi ON / smi LA**' )
fJtT Mi 6tr 1 iv MUinM6 WT! j. a.
Vice Provot .ur enrollment Planning William Elliott explained that yesterdays enrollment may 
not look organized but it is."Tuition Still Lower Than Competitors
continued from page 1
Business Affairs, stated that the increase 
in salaries and maintenance operations was 
drawing on the Universitys income. 
Concern was shown that the increase 
would affect the attrition rate since the 
highest rate of students dropping out oc
curs after a tuition change.
Even at $3,100, CMUs tuition still re
mains lower than most comparable institu
tions. Representative tuitions for 1975-76 
across the country are: Cal Tech - 3,390; 
Yale - 4,050; Weslyan - 3,885; George 
Washington - 2,600; Georgetown - 2,900; 
Notre Dame - 3,000; John Hopkins - 3,400; 
Boston U. - 3,200; MIT - 3,650; Tufts -
3,550; Princeton - 3,yu0; m - 3,570; Uni
versity of Rochester - 3,475; Syracuse - 
3,290; Case-Western - 2,870; Bucknel - 
3,209; Chatham - 2,760; and Pitt - 1,025.
The lower cost at CMU is due to the 
high number of research grants totaling 
$15,000,000 and a very low administra
tive overhead (34% compared to Stan
fords 80%).
Severe problems were expected this year 
due to the shortage of funds and infla
tion, but the increase in the freshman 
enrollment should alleviate some difficul
ties by bringing in additional tuition 
revenue.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6THE TARTAN- September 3, 1975campus briefs
$9.80 for $10.00
A charge of $.20 per check will be assessed 
to cover the cost to the Cashiers Office for 
almost one full-time person to handle the 
volume of check cashing requests and the 
bank charges for deposit of the checks. 
This change will allow the university to 
continue the check cashing service without 
incurring any additional expense Thomas 
Horner, Controller, stated in a memo to 
the campus community that this change 
is in accord with the broad University 
principle that the people who use special 
services should share in the cost.
Psych enters H&SS
The Psychology Department has been in
corporated as a full fledged member of 
the College of Humanities and Social 
Sciences. In the past the department 
had its own budget and reported to 
the Dean of GSIA. This change will 
stregthen H&SS considerably since the De
partment of Psychology and Education has 
achieved great eminence throughout the 
country said Dr. Richard Cyert in his 
organizational announcement of this 
change in structure.
ROTC joins CIT
The Department of Military Science will 
report directly to the Dean of Carnegie 
Institute of Technology. In the past 
the department was responsible to the 
Dean of Student Affairs. This change is the 
result of the recommendation made by a 
special committee convened by CIT who 
studied the role of ROTC in the univer
sity as well as CITs relationship with the 
Reserve Officers Training Corps.
Weekend in Pittsburgh
Several student leaders were flown into 
Pittsburgh by the University on Saturday, 
July 26 in order to attend a meeting with 
Dr. Cyert and other administration of
ficers. The meeting was to insure that stuCAMPUS DIRECTORY TO PHYSICAL 
CHANGES
Architecture: Remolded CFA second floor.
SUPA: Moved to and remodeled MMCC 
first floor rooms 104 - 108.
E&PA: Expanded into new facilities on the 
second floor of Science Hall, rooms 
2325, 2327.
Dean H&SS: Moved to the second floor of 
Baker Hall, room 260.
Vending Area: Moved from Baker Hall to 
Porter Hall 100 to accommodate a 
Design Department Gallery.
History Office: Moved to Baker Hall, room 
240.
Counseling Center: Moved to Baker Hall, 
room 135.
Bookstore in Baker Hall was remolded.
GSIA: Remodeling the third floor GSIA.
Gymnasium: Has been totally refinished
Skibo: Air conditioning was totally re
placed.
Art Store: Being added in Skibo , ground 
floor.
Fine Arts: Renovation started last summer 
in Fine Arts basement, and Doherty 
Hall is now complete.
Chem. E.: Upgrading of facilities.
Tennis Courts: New fence installed.
Forbes Ave.: Constuction may be complet
ed by Oct. 1.
Frats Plan Big Rush
As CMU welcomes the largest Freshman 
Class ever to enroll, the Fraternities and 
Sororities are looking forward to a suc
cessful year for rush.
On Friday September 5, the Unified 
Fraternal Organization (UFO) will kick 
off the year with their annual Watermelon 
Bash, to be held on the Fraternity cut. The 
Greeks encourage all students to come on 
over and meet the Greeks, for free water
melon and live music.
Saturday the 6th will be the first night 
of rush, with most houses bringing out 
their elaborate signs for the first mixers of 
the year. This year rush will be open: 
freshmen are welcome to come over to the 
fraternities at any time, for a scheduled
event, or just to talk about fraternity life.
CMU has twelve national fraternities, 
each somewhat different. Theywill not live 
up to the old 50s sterotype that many 
expect to find. The Greeks ask only that 
freshmen come in with an open mind; they 
will be willing to discuss the pros and cons 
of fraternal life with anyone who shows an 
interest.
Pledge night will be October 4.
The sororities will have their own rush 
events, starting on October 12. A progres
sive dinner on October 26 will give the 
freshman woman a chance to visit each of 
the five national sororities on their own 
flcors in Morewood Gardens. November 9 
will be sorority pledge night.
BNAI BRlTH ttlLLEL-JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
inmyj,1
Hillel is. .4.
A meeting Place 
A Service Agency 
An Academic Resource 
A Kosher Dining Club 
A Place to Get Away from It All
Offices, Lounge, Library and Dining Club are located 
on the third floor of the Jewish Community Center, 315 
S. Bellefield Avenue (across from Heinz Chapel).
**** New and returning students should contact the Hillel 
office as soon as you know your address for the school year. 
315 S. BELLEFIELD AVENUE (ACROSS FROM HEINZ CHAPEL) 621-8875
DON'T MISS!
THE FIRST CONCERT OF 
THE SEMESTER STARRING:
THE EARLE SCRUGGS REVUE
PLUS
GRINDERSWITCH
PLUS
ONE OTHER BAND!
FREE

ON SAT. SEPT. 13 STARTS AT 2 P.M. 
ON FLAGSTAFF HILL. SCHENLEY PARK
BRING YOUR BLANKETS & FRISBEES

RAIN LOCATION  CMU MAIN GYM 
SPONSORED BY UNIV. OF PITT AND CMU 
ACTIVITIES BOARD
e
Former University of Pittsburgh track coach James M. Banner has been named CMUs 
new Athletic Director replacing Raymond Hanes who had requested to be relieved 
from that post last Spring. Banner will report directly to President Cyert. When asked 
about his plans concerning CMUs involvement in athletics, Banner replied that he was
very enthusiastic.
dents who had questions about any of the 
appointments and their implications to the 
University had an opportunity to ask them 
promptly, according to Dean of Student 
Affairs Earle Swank. Among the topics 
of the meeting was a request by Dr. Cyert 
for the students comments on:
-the ways the university was handling 
the housing of the additional students 
-his methods of communicating with 
students.
-the draft of his letter to the campus 
community.
Athletics is a Presidential Matter
President Cyert stated in a recent leiter 
to the student body that in accordance 
with the philosophy of the Presidents 
Athletic Conference (of which he is 
currently president) I should become 
more deeply involved in the develop
ment of directions for our athletic pro:
grams. James Banner, the newly ap
pointed Athletic Director will thus report 
directly to Dr. Cyert. Formerly, the Athle
tic Director was under the jurisdiction of 
the Dean of Student Affairs.
SUPA Dean Appointed
Dr. Otto A. Davis has been named dean 
of the School of Urban and Public Affairs 
(SUPA). He replaces Dr. William W. Cooper 
who has been serving in this capacity since 
1969.
Dr. Davis, associate dean and professor 
of Political Economy, SUPA, since 1968, 
joined the faculty of CMU in 1960 as assis
tant professor of Economics. He was ap
pointed an assoicate professor in 1965 and 
full professor in 1967.
After receiving his A.B. from Wofford 
College in 1956, he attended the Universi
ty of* Virginia where he was awarded an 
M.A. in 1957 and Ph.D. in 1960.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANSeptember 3^ 1975Page 7
MANAGERS MIND THE UNIVERSITY
\
i t V
by Robert Reinhold
PITTSBURGHUntil fairly recently, 
college presidents were like Cardinals in 
se secular cathedrals we call universities, 
y were courtly literate men picked for 
heir intellectual prowess and looked up to 
for scholarly inspiration.
These days, as a well-known historian la
mented recently, they are more apt to be 
bland business managers cr labor negotia
torsmembers of the curia, in effect. The 
reason for the change was financial duress.
Perhaps the archetype of the new breed 
of leaders at American universities Richard 
Michael Cyert, an economist and manage* ment theorist who became president of 
Carnegie -Mellon University here in 1972.
Plucked from the deanship of the 
schools own highly regarded Graduate 
School of Industrial Administration, he 
took over a campus that, like most, was 
awash with red ink. In his first year, with 
some painful decisions and applied modern 
business practices, he converted an inheri ted deficit of $800,000 into a $150,000 
surplus on a budget of about $40 million.
The halls are a little dirty, the grass and 
weeds grow a little taller on the 90-acre 
campus and some departments are resent
ful, but Carnegie -Mellon is still in surplus. 
Those who have known the quiet unassum
ing 53-year-old president in the 27 years 
he has spent here were not surprised. One 
professor called him a master at walking a 
tightrope, trying to accommodate new 
management style with old noticns about 
collegiality. He did find, however, that 
Mr. Cyert sometimes tends to overdo 
the scientism.
The Cyert approach, with its talk of 
productivity and organizational units 
comes at a time when the industry of 
education is in deep trouble. The era of 
dizzying growth is over. The years when 
generous government grants, cheap loans 
and a surfeit of students helped conceal 
listless management and waste are long 
gone.
Traditionally, universities have not 
been managed, Mr. Cyert said in a recent 
speech. They have tended to operate as 
highly decentralized organizations in which 
deans and department heads operated
We could easily have drifted into 
comprehensiveness, but we made a 
point of saying we are rot going to 
be everything to everybody.
largely autonomously. This kind of opera
tion was possible and indeed productive, 
because there were plenty of students and 
adequate resources. Unfortunately, those 
days are no longer here.
But managing an educational institution 
with 4,400 students is not like running, 
say, an airline, where the only real test of 
performance is the bottom line. Learning 
and research are by nature somewhat un
ruly enterprises. Tenure and academic 
traditions limit flexibility. Still, a college 
is a business, with salaries to meet and bills 
to collectand pay.
It was into this increasingly complex 
scene that Mr. Cyert stepped three years 
ago, having spent most of his professional 
life studying the behavior of business or
ganizations.
The first step was to halt the expansion. 
Before Mr. Cyert took over, $8-million 
had been siphoned frorruthe schools small 
endowment for a new, $ 15-million science 
building at a time when science enrollments 
were dropping. So he scrapped plans for a
'Perhaps the archetype of the new breed of leaders at American Universities," Richard M. Cyert
is not only his managerial skill but also the 
fact that he is a respected scholar. Econo
mists on other campuses say he is best 
known for his theoretical work, with J.G. 
March, A Behavioral Theory of the Firm, 
Prentice-Hall, 1963.
In this, he attempted to explain organiza
tional behavior in terms of the attitutdes and 
goals of the individual participants, in con
trast to the usual approach of viewing com
panies as single organisms trying to maxi; 
mize profits and responding mainly to ex
ternal pressures.
The scrimping he has had to do as presi
den of Carnegie -Mellon is almost a matter 
of breeding for Mr. Cyert, born on July 22, 
1921. He retains vivid memories of having 
to sleep on the floor in a Minneapolis slum 
while his father, an unemployed salesman, 
tried to ride out the Depression.
I grew up with tremendous financial in
security, he said, It was a long time before 
I could relax about money. So I have a 
natural tendency to take a bad financial sit
uation and fix it up.
new $4.75-million art building immediately, 
using part of the money instead to renovate 
the old facilities.
One of his chief innovations, Mr. Cyert 
says, was to reverse the budgeting process. In 
the past, department heads would submit 
budgets and then haggle. Mr. Cyert requires 
revenue estimates first, then allocates avail
able money.
Staff was cut from 2,000 to 1,500 in two 
years, mostly by trimming maintenance jobs. 
Graduate teaching assistants were thinned 
out, and professors asked to teach more. 
Budgets in almost all divisions, particularly 
science, have been slashed, not without con
siderable grumbling. A stiff rise in parking 
fees was imposed.
He also had the presidents 22-room man
sion sold off, choosing to remain in the re
latively modest ranch house he and his wife, 
the former Margaret Shadick, built for 
$28,000 in 1957 in suburban Fox Chapel.
Not that all the financial strains could be, 
or were eased. The poor stock market of 
recent years has cut Carnegie-Mellons en
dowment to just over $ 100-million from the 
$126-million it boasted in March, 1972.
According to Mr. Cyert, a private school 
president has to be a good manager interBut he hopes, now that the financial 
situation is in hand, to turn more attention 
to improved education. With the help of a 
grant from the Carnegie Corporation, the 
school is exploring new teaching methods. 
One that interests him particularly from 
the point of view of efficiency is the selfpaced learning concept, whereby the stu
dent moves through classwork as quickly as 
he or she can, rather than adhering to a 
predetermined schedule.
To some extent, Carnegie -Mellon - 
formed by the 1967 merger of Carnegie . 
Institute of Technology and Mellon Insti- . 
tue - has had an advantage in the survival I 
game because it does not try to be compre
hensive. As a dean at Harvard put it: You 
cannot teach Mongolian and be cost-effec
tive.
Carnegie -Mellons programs  emphasi
zing engineering, computer science, drama, 
music, artt and business administration  
are eclectic and highly professionally 
oriented.
We could easily have drifted into com
prehensiveness, but we made a point of say
ing we are not going to be everything to 
everybody, Mr. Cyert said.
What may give him cachet with his faculnally and get hold of the accounting system, ty-enough to survive despite his application 
But hes also got to look at the kind of pro- of new and necessarily unpopular measuresduct being turned outeducation and reI MAY BE PIG-HEADED
BUTI DO SEEK INPUTS
Father of three daughters, he is a man of 
steady and moderate habits (he neither 
smokes nor drinks) who keeps trim by jog
ging and hiking up the six flights to his of
fice every day. He is said to lose his custo
mary reserve at the ball park; he can con
verse almost as knowledgeably about the 
Pittsburgh Pirates as about the fine points of 
management science.
But although Mr. Cyert is said to be a 
good listener Carnegie -Mellon University 
is not a democratic institution. The presi
dent makes the big decisions and does not 
deny it. Everything is played back and 
forth, but in the end I am paid to make 
decisions, he said. In sum, I may be 
pig-headed but I do seek inputs.
Copyrighted 1975 by the New York Times
Company. Reprinted by permission..............
Originally published in the Business and 
Finance section of the Sunday, June 22, 
1975 New York Times.
search.
The private schools that survive will sur
vive because they have qualities that will in
duce people to pay a higher tuition .What 
that means is that we must worry about 
being in the frontiers of education, Mr. 
Cyert said.
Measuring quality is, of course, somewhat 
of a problem in his industry, but Mr. Cyert 
has hopes of pinning it down.
From the productivity point of view he 
advocates tallying the number of bachelor 
degrees awarded or of Ph.Ds awarded, per
haps on a per-faculty member basis.
Concerning research, he mentions weigh
ing the quality of the journals ir. which re
sults are published and suggest extending 
that to reflect the citations received in other 
publications and books, although he feels 
this would be expensive as well as time con
suming.
For professional schools, the ultimate 
bottom line might be.the track record of 
graduates after five, 10 or 20 years in terms 
of salary achieved, quality of the organiza
tion worked for and a graduates role within 
the organization.
All of this Mr. Cyert admits, raises danger 
that creativity will suffer and the room for 
innovation will narrow.
BNAI BRITH HILLEL-JEWISH 
UNIVERSITY CENTER
SCHEDULE OF HIGH HOLY DAY SERVICES
ROSH HASHANAH
Friday, September 5 
Saturday, September 6
(Kiddush following morning service) 
Sunday, September?
8:00 p.m. 
10:00a.m.
10:00 a.m.
Sunday, September 14 
MOnday, September 15
YOM KIPPUR
Kol Nidre 7:00 p.m.
Morning Worship 10:00 a.m.
Evening Worship - Neilah - Sounding of Shofar
BREAK-THE-FAST DINNER FOLLOWING SHOFAR 
By reservation only. $1.75 Call 621-8875 by noon, September 11
ALL SERVICES WILL BE HELD IN THE AUDITORIUM OF THE OAKLAND JEWISH 
COMMUNITY CENTER, WITH THE EXCEPTION OF THE SEPTEMBER 7 SERVICES 
WHICH WILL BE HELD IN THE ROGAL ROOM ON THE SECOND FLOOR THE CEN 
TER IS AT 315 S. BELLEFIELD AVENUE (Opposite Heinz Chapel)
Arrangements can be made through the Hillel Office for home 
hospitality. Local Synagogues and Temples welcome students. Call the 
Synagogue of your choice or 621 8875.
FACULTY AND THEIR FAMILIES, AS WELL AS STUDENTS ON ALL 
THE PITTSBURGH CAMPUSES, ARE WELCOME.
315 S. BELLEFIELD AVENUE (ACROSS FROM HEINZ CHAPEL) 621 8*75

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8-THE TARTAN-September 3. 1975
off-campus briefs
Unemployed Graduates
The College Placement Council reported 
that the number of job offers to gradu
ates with bachelors degrees was down 24 
per cent from last year. Job offers for Mas
ters degree holders were down 18 per cent 
and down 37 per cent for doctorial stu
dents.
Salaries on the other hand were generally 
up from last year. Engineering salaries were
9 to 15 per cent higher than those offered 
in 1974, hitting an average of $1,196 a 
month for persons with bachelors degrees 
in Chemical Engineering. The average 
monthly salary offered for all bachelors 
degree graduates was $1,113.
Dorm Residents have Right to Privacy
A Michigan federal judge ruled that college 
students have the same rights of privacy in 
their dorms as any adult has in a private 
home.
Judge Noel P. Fox also ruled that a 
stronger degree of evidence will be required 
in college disciplinary cases than in the 
past. Colleges must show clear and con
vincing evidence of a breach of campus 
regulations in order to search a students 
residence.
Judge Fox upheld the contention of two 
student facing suspension for possession of
Marijuana at Grand Valley State College 
that their dorm room had been searched il
legally by college officials. The Judge ruled 
that a search warrant should have been is
sued. College Officials claimed that they 
had the authority to search dormitory 
rooms if they had reasonable cause to be
lieve that students were violating college 
regulations.
U.S. Government Research Money Down
A National Science Foundation report 
indicates that due to the effects of in
flation, real spending on basic research 
is down 8 per cent from the 1974 level. 
This, according to a NSF staff member, 
is the largest percentage decline ever re
corded by the Foundation.
Reports indicate that the Ford Administra
tion has been attempting to surpress the re
cord-breaking nature of the decline. One 
NSF staff member reported We decided 
not to mention it because it might reflect 
badly on the Administration.
Colleges and Universities account for about 
61 per cent of the nations basic scientific 
research and stand to be severely affected 
by the Governments decreased research 
spending.
CMU Gridmen Begin Training
Frosh Class
continued from page 1
decision to up this years freshman class. 
When asked about next year, Elliott replied 
that he had not as yet made a decision on 
how many people would be accepted, and 
that this decision does not have to be made 
until January. He did state that he doubts
the University will accept more next year 
than it did with the present class.
The department most severely affected 
by the increase in class size is Architecture, 
whose freshman enrollment increased by 
121% from last year. Drama is up 57%, 
Music 29%, Art 20%, and Design 17%.
As of July 30, there were 732 men and 
367 women in the class of 1979. This is a 
male/female ratio of about 2:1. H&SSs ra
tio is the most equal: 94 men, 94 women; 
CIT has the worst: 328 men, 76 women.
Training Camp for the 85 member foot
ball squad began on August 25. This is one 
of the largest squads in the schools his
tory, with only 3 seniors returning and 40 
freshmen. After one week of camp, the 
team currently numbers around 70, with 
10 sidelined with injuries.
The Tartans are in the process of 
building their team with more sophomores 
returning this year than in recent years.
Head Coach Joe Gasparella feels his 
team can do well this year, but at the pre
sent they are just working towards their 
season opener against Washington and Jeff
erson on September 13 at home.
There are three full time assistant 
coaches this year: Coach Youngblood, 
watching the secondary; Coach Macabato, 
on the defensive line; and Coach Engert. 
working with the receivers and the special
ty teams. The rest of the coaching staff 
will be made up with part time coaches, as 
in the past.
With the new coaching staff, Gasparella 
is switching to a new offense and the 52 
defense. The loss of Gary Bonn, last years 
leading rusher, with a head injury, may 
hurt; but Gasparella believes that the Tar
tan running backs have plenty of depth. 
The weakest point will be the linemen, 
where Gasparella will depend heavily on 
the freshmen to fill in. The starting quar
terback job is being fought for by last 
years starter Jay Duquette and Ted Harhai.
The Tartans plan to be in contention for 
the P.A.C. title; according to Gasparella, 
the teams to beat are Allegheny, John Car
roll, and Theil.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-September 3, 1975Page 9
//Reflections' 
Mirrors CFA
it*
Pets Banned from Campus Buildings
by David Groupe
No, its not left over from the Fine Arts rennovation; Reflections, the new resident 
of the lawn at the side of the College of Fine Arts is an eight foot tall, 6,0U0 pound 
sculpture by Steven Urry, visiting Andrew Mellon Professor of Sculpture.
Using stainless steel sheets which were donated to the Department of Art by Alumnus 
Maile N. Ornite, Urry created a large ribbon of asymmetrical planes that arches to three 
graceful points.
The Sculpture is temporarily residing on campus until it begins touring the coun
try with major exhibitions in New York and San Francisco.
The sculpture is polished on the inside as well as exterior so that its angular fa
cets will reflect each other - multiplying infinitely to create a striking esthetic effect, 
said Urry. A climb through it should be as fascinating as its exterior, which will mirror 
the surroundings: the sky, the grass and trees, and the people passing by.
Urry is among 10 national artists selected in a competition to create 10 large sculpture 
for ten roadside rest areas along Interstate-80 in Nebraska.
by David Groupe
New pet regulations forbidding pets in 
University buildings and requiring that 
all dogs be leashed and attended while on 
campus were put into effect on July 1.
Vice President for Business Affairs,
Richard Van Horn, directed Michael
Corletti, Director of Security Services
to initiate the new pet regulations in re
sponse to increasing complaints concerning 
animals on campus.
Corletti noted that many of the com
plaints were in regard to dog bites and beg
ging.
When asked whether any one incident 
had triggered the new regulations, Van 
Horn responded negatively. He then cited a 
case where a custodian had unlocked a 
semingly empty office in order to clean it; 
and was immediately accosted by a large 
dog which had been trapped inside. If 
anything, Van Horn commented, this 
was the turning point, although the problem had already been under discussion.
Custodians gripes centered on animal 
excrement in buildings. Complaints were 
also received about cruelty to dogs citing 
cases of dogs tied to trees for hours trapped 
in elevators, or wandering the halls in 
search of their masters.
Any future problems with specific ani
mals will result in their removal from cam
pus by Animal Control Services. These pets 
may be reclaimed by their owners within 
three days; Security will keep a file on 
recent animal removals.
Corletti stressed that he wanted to keep 
an open mind on the issue and would be 
willing to talk to anyone with a special 
problem or a suggestion.
When asked about complaints from pet 
owners regarding the new regulation, 
Corletti stated that there were an equal 
number of people who felt harassed by 
the animals.
Prior to these new regulations, animals 
had been forbidden in housing and food 
service facilities.
O
o FEATURING o
o
idef*op'0
dcf(*e
\0
open
food  soda 
candy  penny candy 
daily paper  magazines 
health & beauty aids 
non  prescription drugs 
laundry supplies & tol<^ns
T shirts  swet shifts
new  used records 
housewares 
cigarettes
Sun-Thurs 10:30 9:30 
Fri Sot 10^30 0:30

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-THE TARTAN-September 3, 1975
Art Store Opening Soon
continued from page 1
previously occupied this space will move 
down the hall, where new rooms were cre
ated by dividing 5 offices in half and enclo
sing a lounge.
The work on these offices should be far 
enough along to allow these groups to 
move in some time the week of September 
8th. The larger groups (Activities Board, 
WRCT, Tartan) that need to get to work 
immediately at the beginning of the year, 
have not been moved and should not be 
too inconvenienced by the construction.
Entropy was to have been enlarged by 
knocking out a side wall and expanding 
into a storage area. This would have been 
done at Entropys expense.
When asked why this had not been 
done Bill Dillon, CMU Business Manager, 
said that the bid he received to knock 
down that wall was about $8000. He felt it 
could be done more cheaply by the univer
sity, and since time was a factor, all effort 
should be concentrated on the Art Store 
and ground floor renovations.
Gail Netzlof, manager of Entropy, was 
upset that the expansion had not gone 
through. When asked when she would try 
to expand, she replied the sooner the bet
ter, but questioned the feasibility of doing
No Occupancies
continued from page 1
Dean Williams was also questioned about the possibility that the larger class 
size will continue for the next few years. 
He expressed the hope that the present 
housing situation will not be permanent. If 
the trend toward increasing enrollment 
continues, Williams noted, there are several 
options. The obvious possibilities are build
ing and remodeling to increase housing ca
pacity.
it over Christmas recess. The store would 
have to close a week early and some of the 
staff would have to sacrifice most of their 
vacations in order to finish the renovations. 
She felt that next May might be a better 
time. Ms. Netzlof added that Entropy 
would consider when to try for their ex
pansion once the store was into the semes
ter and things were settled and running 
smoothly.
Bill Dillon explained that the late com
pletion of the renovations was basically 
due to a late start. The first bid had been 
much too high and soine of the plans had 
to be reconsidered. By the time a bid was 
accepted and the work started, the summer 
,was more than half over.
Dillon said that further renovations are 
still being considered for Skibo. Other 
areas needing work include the Highlander 
Room and Room 100. Suggestions for the 
Grill ranged form turning it into a movie 
theatre to expanding the upper level into a 
circular balcony. The serving area would 
then be moved to where the steps are now, 
and an open staircase would be built in a 
corner on the window side.
Dillon asked for further suggestions on 
what the campus community would like to 
see in Skibo. He added that final plans for 
remodeling the Grill (slated to begin next 
summer) should be announced by April. So 
the campus will have a chance to respond 
and complaints can be heard before the 
work is begun.
rg|"
s&sssi
The new Art Store awaits carpeting befores supplies get moved in.
A Festival of Music, Drama, Dance
Featuring
Pgh. Black Theatre Dance Ensemble
with
UACM Gospel Choir 
Univ. of Pgh. Women's Choral Group 
Folk Instrumentalist - John Nelson
Sunday, Sept. 7,7 p.m. 
University & City Ministries 
Fifth & Bellefield, Oakland
Sponsored by UACM, Pitt St. Act. Office
Free to Public
WHAT IS THE ACTIVITIES BOARD?
WE ARE CONCERNED WITH PROGRAMMING 
ENTERTAINMENT FOR THE CAMPUS COMMUNITY
OUR COMMITTEES: 
Concert
Lecture & Special Event 
Friday Films
Coffeehouse
Technical (Lights & Sound) 
TGIF (Friday Boogie Dance) 
Video (???!)Film Arts (Thursdays)
SOUND INTERESTING?
COME TO THE FIRST GENERAL MEETING
WHERRETT RM IN SKIBO 
TUES. SEPT. 9  8:00 P.M.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANSeptember 3, 1975Page 11
Emergency
Phones
Installed

The Security Phone System, proposed 
last Spring, has been installed and is current
ly in operation. Upon Lifting the receiver 
the new system puts the caller into imme
diate contact with the security desk clerk 
and automatically identifies the location of 
each caller.
Director of Security Services, Mike Corletti emphasized that the phones should only 
be used in emergancy situations. He des
cribed incidents involving crimes against per
sons or property, accidental injuries, fires or 
hazardous conditions as warrenting the use 
of the new phones. He also stressed that stu
dents should use the phone system to report 
suspicious characters so that security can 
try to prevent incidents from occurring.

V
RUGS
FOR LESS WITH YOUR ID card
1000 9x12's - $15 to $49
4x6's, 6x9's, 12x12's, 12xl5's, etc.
CHASE RUG WHSE.
4513 Liberty Ave., Bloomfield 
(54-C bus leaves off at store)
Daily 10 to 6 P.M. Sat. 10 to 5 
Open Monday evenings 
till 9 P.M.
For Info & Directions - 621-1025
5
Lunch at
Lutheran University Center
451*5 FORBES AVE. (between Craig and Dithridge)
Weekdays  11:30 a.m. -1:15 p.m.
85< DONATION FOR 
(Milk: 5$ extra)
SOUP  SANDWICH  DESSERT  BEVERAGE
a place to meet with friends and colleagues 
a place to make new acquaintances 
a place to relax and talk
Crecine Named Dean
Upon picking up the receiver. Security's new emergancy phones puts the used in immediate 
voice contact with the desk*clerk.
There arent a lot of phones but I think 
that they are strategic enough to give us 
pretty good service, said Corletti. I think 
these areas (covered by the phones) are areas 
of large concern.
The new phone system required a sizeable 
installation charge and will cost $300-$400 a 
month in service fees. Its a substantial 
amount but I think students will realize the 
value of it, Corletti said.
There are currently fifteen emergancy 
phones. The phones are located at Morewood Gardens, Hamerschlag Hall, Skibo, 
Margaret Morrison, Donner Hall, Hamer
schlag House, Parking Area number 3, CFA, 
Gym, Fraternity Mall, Mudge, Margaret Mor
rison Street, Mellon Institute and Doherty 
Graduate House.
continued from page 1
siting the campus on a 1 week per month 
basis. Otto Davis, the newly appointed 
Dean of the School of Urban and Public 
Affairs, will serve as temporary dean in 
Crecires absence.
Crecioe is currently President of B.P.T. 
Consulting Firm. He formerly served as Di
rector, Institute of Public Policy Studies; 
Professor of Political Science at the Univer
sity fo Michigan; economist for the Rand 
Corporation; and consultant for the U.S. 
Bureau of Budget. He is widely known for 
his work in political science, education, 
behaviorist and social sciences, and urban 
and regional planning.
Among his publications are titles dealing 
with computer simulation, public policy 
research,defense budgeting, education, and
WRCT
Remodeled
Over the summer WRCT underwent ma
jor renovations to improve the use of space 
and quality of the air signal. The air studio 
was rewired and equipped with new ampli
fiers to make the most of the larger band 
width afforded by FM.
The increasing complexity of in house 
production and the more demanding air sig
nal required the implementation of several 
improvements. The production studios size 
was increased and a completely new dual 
channel stereo mixing board is planned to be 
in operation by October. Earlier completion 
was delayed by bureaucratic red tape from 
Physical Plant.
Mark Wainwright, WRCTs program di
rector has programed greates hits for the 
first month, with the new format to be 
launched with the compleation of the new 
facilities. WRCT will broadcast campus news 
daily along with regional and national news 
from UPI and ABC network.
organizational processes.
According to Dr. Cyert, one reason for 
Crecines delay in accepting the position 
last spring was his desire to know who 
SUPAs Dean would be, since he felt that 
the two dear s would be working together 
closely.
Besides serving as H&SSs dean, Crecine 
will also be the Assistant Swim Coach, by 
his own request. He was a swimmer while 
at CMU as a student.
Editors Note: The TARTAN will publish 
an in-depth interview with Dr. Crecine 
upon his arrival on campus.
* Tickets Now
* on Sale!
One Performance 
ONLY
* the sensational
SHOW
you know his "Mandy" 
and "It's A Miracle"
SUN., SEPT. 28 e 9 P.M. 
Tickets: $7.50, $6.50, $5.50
Mall ordars to Halnz Hall, Manilow, 
600 Pann Ava., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
15222, with salf-addrassad tamped 
anvalopc. Tlckats on tala at Halnz 
Hall Box Office, also at tlckat coun
tars In Kaufmann's, Gimbals, Horna'i 
and all Natl. Rocord Marts. Phona 
281-SOOO.
LUTHERAN WORSHIP
Sunday, September 7
10:30 a.m. at Lutheran University Center Chapel 
4515 Forbes Avenue (between Dithridge 
and Craig)
6:30 p.m. at Heinz Memorial Chapel campus
Campus Pastor: Galen F. Hora 
Associate: Rudy Mattai
 Traditional and Contemporary Services 
The department of Student Activities 
Announces the third consecutive year of
A Program on
Human Sexuality
A Program About You!
10 Consecutive Weeks Beginning on Sept. 17
Also available for course credit through the 
Psychology Department
1". II11 J11 JJL I "I I llll) IT 1111 u II II  -..........  .............  .
DAVID LITMAN presents
MAYNARD FERGUSON
AND HIS
All STAR BAND
IN CONCERTHEINZ HALLFOR THE PERFORMING ARTS
SAT., SEPT. 20 at 8:30 P.M.
TICKETS: $7.50, $6.50, $5.50 
NOWON SALE at Hein Half Box Of fite, 
Kaufmann's, Gimbels and Horne's
inra^nwHwti^11.......................

---------------------------------------------------

Student Government 
of 
Carnegie-Mellon 
University
AwuuiKcewewt
The First 
1975-76 Student Senate 
will meet 
Wednesday - Sept. 10
TIME - 4*30 p.m. 
PLACE -Skibo Wherrett Room 
WHO -All Student Government Representatives
Student Government Representatives  Fall 1975
Doug Konopka,, President 
Lary Kurzweil, Chairman
Richard Anderson 
George Bachner 
Keith Baker 
Richard Bogavich 
Debbie Bowen 1 
Daniel CapovelKez 
Diane Carter 
Aaron Clevenson 
Jerome DiGennaro 
Paul DiNardo 
Catherine Drisko
Greg Ellis 
Ronald Emanuele 
Linda Evangelista 
Mara Feldman 
Lori Goldstein 
James Harman 
Toni Huffsmith 
Steven King 
Paul Knell 
William Latura 
Raymond McCaughey 
Keith McDonald 
Amy Millman 
Ed Plank
Mike Pochan . 
Elliot Popowitz 
Gordon Powell 
Ronald Prengaman 
Doug Segur 
Don Simon 
Mike Steidel 
Audie Stokes 
Willie Thompson 
Don Van Ollefer 
Larry Valery 
Deborah Watkins 
Lorraine Wilson
o
