pnoto oy Robert usman
TARTAN
February 20, 1979 Volume 79, Number 22 Carnegie-Mellon University Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Gregory, Lane Use King Lecture as Forum
Comedian Dick Gregory adlibbed for over an 
hour, often attacking the government's deception 
of the American people.
by Bill Kapner
As part of the Black Week activities at 
CMU, Dick Gregory and Mark Lane spoke 
in the Skibo Ballroom last Tuesday night 
to an audience of about 500 students.
In the past Gregory has attached himself 
to a number of political and protest 
movements. Whether demonstrating against 
the Vietnam War or arguing for Black 
rights, Gregory has always been able to be 
controversial. His latest interest is the 
investigation of the King assassination, 
which was to be the topic of discussion 
Tuesday. It seemed that Gregory was 
attempting to capture the interest and 
attention of the audience by his loud and 
acrimonious humor and discussion then 
leave the dryer, bad factual discussion to 
Mark Lane.
Gregory, a comedian, author and 
political activist spoke for the first hour 
of the joint lecture. Throughout his talk 
he addressed a wide variety of topics from 
birth control to Billy Carter, yet his dis
cussion contained one central theme; 
the deception of the American people at 
the hands of the U.S. government. Though
CFA Beaux Arts Ball Returns
The College of Fine Arts is staging a re
birth of an old Tech tradition. On March 
3rd,1SL7-9,-after a silent decade, the doors 
of the College of Fine Arts will again swing 
open to admit costumed students, faculty 
and alumni for a night of music, dancing 
and entertainment: Beaux Arts Ball, 1979. 
Fine Arts will be transformed into an en
vironment of eclectic merriment with three 
continuous musical events, wandering pla
yers, cabarets, two bars, a champagne 
breakfast, dancing til dawn and assorted 
other surprises.
The Beaux Arts Ball, an event tradition
ally held by LEcole des Beaux Arts, was 
brought to Carnegie Tech by Henry Hornbostle, graduate of LEcole and architect 
for Carnegie Tech. Throughout the years, 
the Ball became a tradition which served to 
unify the spirit of the Fine Arts commu
nity.
Each Ball transformed Fine Arts into a 
new environment designed around a speci
fic theme. Such themes as Kapers at 
Karnak, The Russian Ball, The Surrealist 
Ball and Arabian nights inspired outra
geous costumes and lavish decorations.
The theme for Beaux Arts Ball is 
Black and White. Costumes are a must. 
Black and White spaces, designed for the 
interior of the College of Fine Arts promise 
to provide exciting areas for relaxing and 
celebration. Ten continuous hours of enter
tainment should provide a larger variety of 
activity than any previous Ball. In short, 
sensory overload from 10PM until 6AM.
Tickets are on sale in the college of Fine 
Arts, near the Deans office. Last day of tic
ket sales will be February 25th.
he mainly played the role of the comedian 
he was able to interject enough serious
ness and his comedy was bitter enough to 
put his message across rather strongly.
Lane is a lawyer who has concentrated 
most of his energies during the past fifteen 
years on conspiracy theories in the deaths 
of Martin Luther King and John F. Ken
nedy. He has written a number of books on 
the subject. His latest, Code NameZorro, deals with the King assassination 
and was co-authored by Gregory. During 
his talk he detailed the events surrounding 
Kings assassination which pointed to dis
crepancies in the Warren Commission 
reports and the liklihood of a conspiracy. 
Lane went on to castigate the media for 
their handling of the Jonestown massacre 
in November. He said that the media 
portrayed the tragedy in Guyana as a mass 
suicide when in fact it was mass murder. 
Lane stated that the victims in Jones
town who refused to drink the poison 
were either gunned down by Jones lieutenents or were forcibly injected with the 
cyanide. Lane has gained a great deal of 
publicity in recent months for his role 
with the peoples temple.
In the past Lane has not only criticized 
the media for their reporting of the ass
assination investigations and the Jonestown 
tragedy, but also has blamed the media 
for giving himself a bad public image by 
frequently questioning the sincerity of his 
motives for involvement in the assassina
tion investigations and by citing frequent
Mark Lane addressed the King assasination and 
the Guyana massacre.
incidences of unethical and, in some 
cases, illegal activities engaged in his 
capacity as an attorney. In a recent article 
in Esquire magazine, columnist and legal 
authority Steven Brill claimed that the 
majority of Laness past activities have 
been motivated by greed and the desire 
for publicity.
Buckminster Fuller Comes to CMU
Next Wednesday evening, February 28, 
AB Lectures Committee invites the CMU 
campus community to consider the Dymaxion world of Buckminster Fuller. Mr. 
Fuller is most famous for his 1950s inven
tion, tire geodesic dome. The geodesic 
dome, composed of triangular members 
knitted into spherical shape, is perhaps the 
most materials-efficient clear span struc
ture ever invented. The U. S. pavilion at 
Expo 67 was a three-quarters sphere of 
this type which stood 20 stories in height.
But Fuller is much more than an archi
tect and designer. Among the many honor
ary degrees and positions to his credit, he is 
Harvards Charles Elliot Norton Chair of 
Poetry, to which he was appointed in 
1962. Buckminster Fuller has devoted his 
life to die itudy of design principles in 
nature (teleology) and the demonstration 
of mans ability to harness these ideas for 
his own betterment (technology). Thus, he 
is both a technocrat and a humanist. He is
also a raging optimist known for^his predic
tion of utopian society as a result of 
comprehensive anticipatory design science 
revolution.
If all this rhetoric seems confusing, 
show up on Wednesday, the 28th. (7:30 
PM, Skibo Ballroom, free) and let Fuller 
explain it himself. His ideas about humani
ty and environment are really quite simple 
and elegant. The language he uses, how
ever, is not. He is rather involved in both 
the meanings and sounds of words. He has 
devoted many of his later years to lecturing 
and teaching all over the world and has 
been known to talk at the rate of 7000 
words per hour. His message should be 
refreshing since Fuller so strongly believes
Iranian Gives Inside View
by Saul Carliner
1 was terrified. was how Elaheh. a 
CMU undergraduate student from Iran, de
scribed her homecoming at Christmas vaca
tion.
We got to the Tehran airport after the 
curfew was in effect. My parents couldnt 
come to get me, so I had to take a taxi. 
The electricity was off and it was dark cverywhere.
"The next day, I went to visit a friend 
wll lias an office near the American em
bassy. On the way I encountered a huge 
demonstration, and we were forced to stop 
^llr car, turn our lights on. and stay in
side. Elaheh saw soldiers with Comed guns, 
tanks, and plenty of graffitti. Much of it 
was obscene, and anti-Shah, though they 
wrote about everything.
After the demonstration, Elaheh de
cided to stay at home. Although she lives 
in a quiet section of Tehran that had lit
tle violence, the effects of the protests af
fected the daily routine of the neighbor
hood.
Electricity was cut off early in the even
ing; gasoline was in short supply. People 
would wait up to two days in line for gas.
continued on page 6Architect, inventor Buckminster Fuller brings his 
Dymaxion world to CMU next Wednesday night.
that man has all the tools at his disposal to 
improve the quality of life of all.
continued on page 11
R-A-T Moves 
Into Chatham
Rent-a-Tech, the CMU student part-time 
employment service, is expanding some of 
its services to Chatham College.
Steven Birke, president of the Student 
Government Corporation (which owns and 
operates Rent-a-Tech), said the service 
needed a new labor market to help meet 
its job requests from the Pittsburgh 
community. At present, only 60% of the 
jobs listed are filled by CMU students. 
Many of the jobs stay uncommitted for 
weeks, which means $3 to $5 unearned for 
each vacant job.
Part of the reason Rent-a-Tech has been 
so popular, Birke explained, is that em
ployers who need specialized skilled labor 
in Architecture or Design can find it at 
CMU. These specialized listings will not be 
offered at Chatham, simply because they 
dont have those departments, stated 
Birke.
The operation at Chatham will be man
aged by two students there, who will be 
responsible for answering questions and 
giving information to Chatham students. 
Job listings will be posted at the Chatham 
Career Services office and at various places 
on campus. Rent-a-Tech will not maintain 
job referals as it does here, but it may plan 
to open an office there if demand is high. 
But the big problem now is making Cha
tham students aware of what Rent-a-Tech 
is and how it works.

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN
Gregory's Rhetoric
Spouting pure, unfounded rhetoric and propaganda, Dick 
Gregory performed oratorical feats last week in a crowded 
Skibo Ballroom. Addressing only the niggers in the 
audience, he arqued a philosophy based mainly on halftruths, exaggerations, unresolvable accusations, and down
right bull. Like a southern preacher with a capitve congrega
tion, he kept beating at his point. (We can turn things 
around, he repeated in between tirades.)
For the most part, he attacked American society, Ameri
can government and the American rich, but another favorite 
topic of his was the American nigger.  While as a comedian 
and public speaker he was first-rate, he wasnt too good at 
presentihg a rational argument.
The U.S. is not a good country, he reasoned, because 
no one smiles any more.  (And according to Gregory, Wal
ter Cronkite and The New York limes are Just two of the 
evils of our society.)
Most of what he said (including his hints at the CIAs 
role in the Guyana murders) was too illogical to take 
seriously. But he did have some constructive points, especi
ally his anti drug platform and his advice to young blacks to 
get organized as a force."
You black fraternities and sororities should concen
trate all your energy into doing something good ... some
thing worthwhile for our brothers in Africa, or our old 
people, instead of carrying bricks around and beating your 
own brothers ass. Our ancestors had their asses beaten too 
much tor us to beat our own like that."
For the most part, however, Gregory (and his brother" 
Mark Lane, who was not only inane, but often boring) did 
not have enough substance to their tirades to make us be
lieve and appreciate the few messages they had which were 
worthwhile.
Black Week Blues
A majority of the standing-room-only crowd in the Ball
room last Tuesday evening was Black. Many were from offcampus. The TARTAN questions the way publicity for the 
lectures was handled.
Since $3,000 out of the student activitites fee was used 
to finance Gregory and Lanes visit, we feel that the first 
responsibility of the Black Week Committee was to make 
sure the CMU community was aware of the lecture. The 
TARTAN received short press releases three weeks ago, and 
then never heard from the committee again. There was no 
ad placed in the TARTAN (Always necessary for such 
events.) When lay-out time rolled around last Saturday, and 
we realized we had no photos or additional notices from the 
Black Week Committee, we did our best to track committee 
members down. We finally got a publicity shot of Lane, 
which we ran on the front page last Tuesday.
Had we not run the photo, we doubt the attendance of 
the white community would have been signitigant. We know 
that had we not demanded the photo, there would have 
been no effort by the Black Week Committee to make sure 
we had something"and there would have been no mention 
ot the lecture in our newspaper.
When we confronted Black Week Chairman Cheryl 
Goodman, she said that they had no advertising budget for 
the lecture itself, and only had posters listing all Black Week 
activities. (A complete absurdity!) She did say that they 
were running free advertisements on WAMO (a predom
inantly black radio station) and expected a big crowd. 
How were CMU students who dont listen to WAMO sup
posed to know? (A banner in Baker Hall did go up ... late, 
however.)
As things turned out, most of the campus ended up aware 
of the lecture. But the Black Week organizers must realize 
that they have a responsibility to all their fellow students to 
keep them informed. If Black Week really is for everyone, 
everyone better know whats going on.
The TARTAN also believes that Ms. Goodman has been 
doing a very competent job running the big show. But it 
seems like a one-women aftair. She should have more help. 
Some of the problems stem from lack of team-work.
Black Week is a great idea ... were behind it 100%. 
What's next on the agenda?
Jeffrey Zaslow
Editor-in<hiet
Letters
Economics Improved 
Editor:
I would like to set the record 
straight on undergraduate Eco
nomics offerings for next year. 
My communication is necessitated 
by malicious rumors circulated to 
H & SS sophomores currently 
choosing their majors, apparently 
in an attempt to get them to se
lect disciplines other than Eco
nomics.
First, the number of Econom
ics faculty on campus and teach
ing undergraduate courses should 
increase significantly next year. 
We expect to hire six new econo
mists. A large number of Econom
ics faculty will return from leave 
next year. To the best of my 
knowledge, neither of*the senior 
faculty members on leave has an 
offer from another institution. 
Both plan to return.
Second, the number of Eco
nomics electives will increase ra
ther than decline. This should 
offer smaller class size and greater
variety. In addition, we plan to 
double the number of faculty in 
73100 from four to eight so that 
lecture sizes can become more 
manageable.
Economics has become an inond major in recent years, not 
only with students, but also with 
graduate school admissions co
mmittees and employers. Students 
having any doubts about majoring 
in Economics are encouraged to 
see me to discuss them.
Thank you for this opportuni
ty to communicate with the cam
pus community.
Walter Dolde 
Associate Head of Economics
Learn the Lesson, Save a Life
Editor:
The death of Timothy Boz 
Larkins was untimely and tragic. 
Having been closely associated 
with Theta Xi two years ago, I can 
understand the sense of loss that 
is shared by the brothers. My
sincere condolences are expressed.
Almost two years ago, my 
father was in a similar acci
dent. By the grace of God, he 
lived through it relatively un
scathed. (Time heals most
important lessons that I have 
learned from these incidents. 
Both ideas are very important and 
it is hard to decide which should 
be first, so, in no particular order:
1. Our longevity is taken 
for granted. That is, none of 
us expect (or like to think about) ourselves or our loved 
ones dying before it is time. 
I think it is important not to 
take longevity for granted and try 
to let special people know we care 
for them-before it is to late.
2. Drive defensively-VERY 
DEFENSELY! Both accidents I 
have mentioned involved the 
hitter running a red light. In Bozs 
case, the driver was intoxica
ted, late in the evening. In my
creasingly popular major and sec- wounds.) There are two very
TARTAN
Volume 79 February 20, 1979 Number 22
Editor-in-Chief:Jeff Zaslow
Managing Editors:Jean Pellegrini
V. R. V. Ramanan
Business Manager:Stephanie Waite
News Editor:Brian Byrnes
Features Editor:Mory Brenner
FOLIO Editor: wK. A. Yaksich
Entertainment Editor:Joan Livitski
Sports Editors:Howard Turner
Perry Colosimo
Photography Editor:Skip Brazelton
Production Manager:Neil Adler
Art Director:Dianne Lauble
AssisiHnt News and Features Editor:Leslie Weiser
Assistant News Editor: Andrew Ragan
Assistant Features Editor: Susan Borg
Production Assistant: Uoug Kirsop
Copyright 1979 by the Carnegie Mellon University TARTAN The Fditoiial Board reserves the right to edit or 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. I unded in part by the Student Govern
ment of Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices Skibo 50; (412) 578 
2111 or 2112. Business Offices Skibo 52; (412) 5782111
ALL RIGHTS RESERVfO

---------------------------------------------------

more Letters
fathers case, it was 10:30' AM on 
a Saturday. No one knows why 
the driver had to go around a 
stopped car to run the light. Just 
because a light is green or red, 
doesnt necessarily mean cars 
have stopped. So others may 
go. In our automobile-dominated 
society, often the other drivers 
integrity cannot be taken for 
granted.
Since we cannot take our 
lives for granted, we must not 
take others action for granted 
because some of these actions will 
cost us our lives.
Im sure many readers of 
the TARTAN have heard or read 
these two rules many times but,
they are important because acci
dents happen. Not only have they 
happened to Boz and my father, 
but they have and can happen to 
your loved ones.
Think about it.
Marilyn Schnell. 
Know Your 'Superman'
Editor:
This is in response to the Dick 
Gregory lecture given on Tuesday, 
Feb. 13 in the Skibo Ballroom.
Much of Mr. Gregorys talk 
concentrated on the lack of comaraderie, humanity, and truth that 
exists today in our society ; with 
Mr. Gregory appealing to the 
young to take action. He used the 
film Superman as his illustra
tion of our social inadequacies.
Mr. Gregory cited that Lex Lu
thers girfriend will save Superman 
only on the condition that he, 
Superman, in turn will save her 
mother from a nuclear missile at
tack. Superman agrees, yet Mr. 
Gregory attests that Superman 
backed out of his promise, in not 
going to save her.
Mr. Gregory points out the in
humanity that exists in our pre
sent day society by Supermans 
breach of promise. The film, how
ever, clearly indicates that Super
man did save the mother, which is 
why he was too late to prevent a 
second nuclear attack.
The point of this is simple: If 
Mr. Gregory is not able to under
stand something as simple as a 
film plot, how are we, the public, 
able to trust Mr. Gregorys ob
servations and insights towards 
National and International affairs?
With Mr. Gregorys advice con
cerning taking action, 1 think it 
is important to point out that we 
must be as wary of public defend
ers as Mr. Gregory attests that the 
public should be of journalists.
Randolph Gale
Keep Your QPA 
Editor:
I have just finished reading S. 
Josephs letter Pitt Can Never be 
CMU! and IM not sure how to 
react to it. Should I be upset be
cause of Mr. Josephs condescen
sion, or humored by the letters 
childishness? What I can conclude 
is that Mr. Joseph has a very small 
point of view. Obviously he feels 
that the average Pitt student is not 
as smart, or intelligent as the aver
age CMU student.
....The superiority of the 
class and professors at Carnegie-Mellon renders the 
University of Pittsburgh at a 
junior high school level by 
comparison.
Granted, CMU does attract 
some gifted individuals, faculty 
and students alike, but so does 
Pitt. Lets face the facts, the grea
ter majority of individuals alive 
are not geniuses (sp). But who 
really cares if one has an IQ of 
180+? People think, breath, eat, 
laugh, work, subsist and they are 
content with their lives. People 
are also curious and have an in
nate desire to learn ; enter the uni
versities. One goes to college to 
learn about a field that interests 
them. In theory then, one should 
have an open mind to leam all
that he can. Yet Mr. Joseph feels 
that we should deal with learning 
only from the standpoint of the 
almighty QPA. Plain and simple, 
ones QPA is not a measure of an 
individuals creativity and under
standing of a topic. Mr. Joseph, 
most individuals do not enjoy 
high pressure academic situations, 
they are frustrating and stifling, 
as you do. My point for writing 
this letter, if you already havent 
perceived it, is that you are not in 
a position to comment on some
body elses course of study. If it is 
INTERESTING to them, fine, let 
them become immersed in it and 
enjoy themselves. Your grounds 
for comment (ie: black marks on 
CMUs reputation) are simply not 
valid and altogether childish. As 
for moral responsibility, how it 
applies to what youre talking 
about is simply beyond me. It is 
people like you who frustrate 
other individuals thirst for know
ledge and foster the image of a 
nerd. Well fine and dandy, you 
can have your glorious QPA and 
moral responsibilities. Personally, 
Ill take a mediocre QPA, a 
broader view of life, and more re
spect for my peers.
Mark Pleskow 
CE 1980
You Figure This Out 
Editor:
One must realize that any opin
ions one holds is directly related 
to a specific time period in life 
which correlates to opinions one 
holds about the perceptions of the 
world around us. Too often these 
perceptions are twisted by the 
chores of everyday living and the 
indecisions of where the futre will 
take us.
I suggest to everyone that the 
future will take us anywhere we 
want. The conception of the past 
is just thatit has passed. Consi
der a yo-yo. Some of us believe 
the world is a kaleidoscope of
change constantly whirling and 
open to new experiences every 
day. Then one day you wake up 
and find yourself tired of spin
ningso how do you get off? The 
only rational choice is to follow 
the string. It happens to be quite a 
long one; slippery with no foot
holds. It may take several tries at 
it until you even get far enough 
away from the yo-yo to realize 
that that was where you came 
from. But if you work hard and 
are ambitious and realize some
thing isnt quite right with the 
yo-yo, youll eventually stop spin
ning. How?by sticking true to 
the values you hold most dear in 
your heart. The soul is a metaphy
sical conceptit only exists in the 
area surrounding the string. It is 
the heart that will lead you up the 
string. I sincerely believe that if 
you have enough faith in the trad
itional values and dont like spin
ning, your heart will take you up 
the string to the other end and 
surpriseyou find out your own 
self is playing with that yo-yo. 
And when you find that out, 
youll put that yo-yo in your poc
ket and smile and remember to 
only play with it when you really 
feel like spinning again. Then 
youll bring it back out of your 
pocket.
So now that I have layed down 
this conception of a yo-yo how do 
we get it so everyone is in control 
of their own? Well, that is hard to 
saypeople are so diverse and 
there is not just one path. Some 
need to run around and search 
for the perfect girl, the per
fect universityalways their 
model of perfection. Well, they
need to search because theyre not 
too sure about their modeland 
through that heart-breaking search 
there come new forms, ideas, 
ways to look at tilings. During 
that search we hope to uncover all 
the myriad details of our pastthe ancient, the familial and the 
personaland from that integrate
very carefully to a new social 
construct. So is it necessarily so 
that people who enjoy the yo-yo 
are wrong? No, they are necessary 
and vital creators of change. What 
is wrong is spinning around so 
your yo-yo knocks and entangles 
another yo-yo intentionally. Then 
the yo-yo becomes an egotistic 
spider that tries to consume some
thing that is unnecessary for sur
vival.
Practical applications are to be 
found in the word economy. 
Learn the value of money, the 
value of gas, the value of food, of 
cherished friendships. After all 
what are we?we are the future.
Mark A. Becker 
Root for the ROTCs 
Editor:
Not too many students here at 
CMU are aware of the R.O.T.C. 
program on campus. Some of 
those who are, have the ten
dency to sneer and thumb their 
noses at anyone wearing a military 
uniform. Admittedly, earlier I was 
to some extent guilty as well. The 
Army isnt for everyone and I 
dont think its for me, but we 
students have a genuine friend in 
Major Robert Rivers, the director 
of the R.O.T.C. program on cam
pus. As one who saw the dollar 
signs that go with a R.O.T.C. 
scholarship, I went to Major Ri
vers to explore the possibilities. 
Having heard much about mili
tary zombies, it was a surprise to 
find Major Rivers to be a kind, 
friendly man. After beginning the 
process of applying for the 
scholarship, I consequently drop
ped out. Did the military man be
come harsh and resentful? To say 
no is an understatement. Major 
Rivers still treated me in the same 
warm manner. The point of this 
letter is to say thank you to and 
let the campus know what a true 
friend we all have in Major Robert
D. Rivers of yes, the Army 
R.O.T.C. program.
Sincerely, 
Roger C. Jaussi

---------------------------------------------------

This piece, titled Insane , was written by David Ganton, a freshman at CMU.VIEWS
I would like to congratulate and thank 
the Black Week Committee, and any other 
organizations which were responsible for 
bringing the lecturers Dick Gregory and 
Mark Lane to our campus last week 
(2/11/79). The topic of their lecture was 
Who Killed Dr. Martin Luther King. 
However, there was a deeper, more fun
damental message behind what each 
speaker had to say.
Something in this cesspool called Amer
ica stinks, and we as Americans have got 
to stop holding our noses and pretending 
the smell will go away by itself. The smell 
has been here for over five hundred years, 
and it should be obvious by now that the 
odor is only getting stronger. The very title 
of the topic that the lecturers dealt with, 
suggests that the nation we live in is insane. 
Eleven years have passed since one of the 
greatest men in America's history was 
felled by an assassins bullet, and we cant 
even be sure if the right man has been 
convicted for this horrible crime. Both 
men presented unrefutable evidence which 
suggests a strong need for the case to be re
opened.
When a nation becomes more upset over 
capturing a purse snatcher than a narcotics 
dealer, that nation is insane. When a nation 
becomes more concerned with its problem 
of crime in the streets, than with its in
volvement in crime all over the world, that 
nation is insane. When we wipe out the 
crime syndicate, we will go a long way to
ward eliminating crime in the streets.
When a nation becomes more concerned 
with putting a man on the moon then 
putting food in hungry childrens mouths, 
that nation is insane. When a nation toler
ates the pardon of one of the most cor
rupt and racist presidents in its history, 
then allows this man to become rich off his 
exploits, and then glorifies this man by in
viting him back to the very office he# 
served to discredit, that nation is insane. 
When a nation takes me captive in its ar
mies to kill, or be killed, by my fellow 
black, white, brown, and yellow brothers, 
that nation is insane. When a nation 
becomes more troubled over a meager 
and inadequate welfare program for the 
poor, then the fact that the nations 
richest people and corporations pay 
no taxes at all, that nation* is insane. 
When a nation tolerates the tremen
dous gap between the judicial treatment of 
the rich and poor, and the fact that the 
time spent in jail is inversely proportional 
to the price of ones lawyer, that nation is 
insane. When a nation is less tolerable of a 
man who steals food to feed his children, 
than the coporations which steal billions to 
feed their own self interests, that nation is 
insane. That nation is America, and 
America is a nation that has lost its mind.
We have been responsible for creating a 
nation in which the air is not safe to 
breathe, the water is not safe to drink, the 
food is not safe to eat, and the streets are 
not safe to walk. Yet the pollution which 
is corrupting and killing off more and more 
Americans, doesnt come from the air, 
water, or land. The pollution which affects 
the lives of each and every American living 
today, comes from within their own minds, 
and is called moral pollution. It is impossi
ble to grow up in this country without be
ing immersed in the stench of racism, sex
ism, injustice, and hatred which we 
ignorant Americans proudly call a dream. 
Our minds are being polluted from the day 
we are born to the day we die, and very 
few of us try or are even able to stand up 
and shout,I dont believe. Well, my 
eyes are wide open, and I dont believe that 
our government treats everyone equally or 
fairly and is looking out for my best 
interest. I dont believe that everyone is 
treated equally under the eyes of the law 
or in our court system. I dont believe that 
no one here in America, the richest and 
most powerful nation on earth,dies of 
malnutrition, I dont believe the single 
bullet, lone assassin, no conspiracy theory 
of the Warren Commission. I dont believe 
that there are not any political prisoners 
here in the United States. I dont believe 
that nine hundred people took their own 
lives at Jonestown. I dont believe that Dr. 
Kings death was at the hands of a single, 
depraved assassin and not the cold 
calculated work of a branch of our 
government. I dont believe that the energy 
crisis happened overnight, and that no one 
in America knew about it beforehand. I 
dont believe that every little girl or boy 
has the opportunity or chance to grow up 
and be President. I dont believe that our 
nation is not preparing to go to war in the 
immediate future. Damn it, I just do not 
believe all the lies, fabrications, or untruths 
the government, major corporations, and 
Americas wealthy force feed us with every 
day of our lives. I have choked it down 
long enough and I refuse to take anymore.
What can we do, you ask? I am only one 
person, how can I possibly change any
thing? First, you can start by taking care of 
your body. How are you possibly going to 
cure the sickness in your mind when you 
will not take the time to clean up your 
body. Dick Gregory said, I cant under
stand people who keep on buying cigar
ettes. Now I dont mind catching cancer, 
but Ill be damned if Im going to pay for 
it, and pay state and federal taxes too. 
Nicotine is a drug, and its addiction is no 
less serious or dangerous then a perons ad
diction to alcohol or heroin. You have to 
purge your body of pollutants before you 
can begin to cleanse your mind.
For those who claim that nothing can 
be done. Let me start by asking you: did 
you vote? I know, you say there was no 
one worth voting for, and when that time 
comes, then you will use your vote. Well, 
if there was no one worth voting in, then 
you can be damn sure that there was some
one worth voting out. I for one am 
ashamed that I did not use my vote this 
year, but you can bet that Ill never let 
this happen again in the future. When is the 
last time that you wrote your congressperson telling him or her that you were 
tired of having your rights abused? Let me 
ask my fellow minority students on this 
campus if they belong to the NAACP? 
There are a helluva lot ot tilings that can 
be done. However, the best preparation is 
by attempting to cleanse your mind of 
the brainwashing which we all receive every 
day of our waking life. The key ingredient 
behind it all is that you have got to start 
caring about and questioning the world in 
which we live. Caring not only about your
self, but also about what happens in the 
lives of other people too. This should be
particularly important in the lives of my 
fellow Black brothers and sisters attending 
Carnegie-Mellon University. Millions of 
Blacks gave their lives to get you to this 
campus; you cannot turn your back on 
that fact. The biggest fool is the person 
who cares only about himself and what 
happens in his own little world. Unfortun
ately, this person does not realize that the 
moral pollution affects everyone and every
thing, and he too suffers along with the 
rest of us.
Moral pollution is eating away at our 
small campus community right here in 
Pittsburgh. Students must lock their doors 
when they go to the bathroom not in fear 
of the man in the street, but of their fel-, 
low student. You probably dont have, or 
have attempted to make, friendships with 
people outside your department, fraternity 
or sorority, school, race, or small, narrow
minded social clique. Why? Because you 
have allowed yourself to be brainwashed 
by the lies and myths that you hear about 
people different than yourself. Injustice 
and ignorance are not only rampant 
throughout the world, but right here on 
this campus.
I am mad as hell that there was a food 
price increase at the Tartan Grill without 
any explanation or consultation with the
students. I question the fact that our tui
tion continually goes up year after year, 
without an equal subsequent improve
ment in food, housing, or the education 
we receive. I wonder why President Cyert 
has made himself an active part of our 
homecoming and Spring Carnival, but I 
have yet to see him attend any of the 
activits held during Carnegie-Mellon Uni
versitys Black Week. I wonder why Food 
Service and other campus employers more 
readily hire students who do not attend 
our university than non-work study stu
dents who do go here. It irks me that for 
seven thousand dollars, we set no input 
into what is taught, what we eat, or where 
we live: and my best-interest is looked af
ter by someone who is far removed from 
the campus community. I wonder if the 
Student Senate and A.B. Presidents try 
to represent the majority of the school 
populace or merely try to please the small 
minority of faculty members. I question 
the nutritional value of food which has 
caused myself and several other of my fel
low students to become physically ill. I 
wonder why this university has no Black 
trustees. I wonder how the university ex
pects students of different colleges to get 
to know one another, when they provide 
limited flexibility in course scheduling and 
create homogenous class groups when this 
does occur. I question the fact that my 
education is sometimes left in the hands of 
an incompetent graduate student who 
seems to know less than his students. I 
wonder why some of our campus security 
are equipped with guns. I dont understand 
why the gym cuts back hours on the week
end when they know that for many people, 
this is the most convenient time to use its 
facilities. I wonder why I pay an equal amount of money for a smaller room, de
pending on where I live. I wonder why my 
chances of getting a job upon graduation 
are slim, regardless of where I receive an 
education. I wonder why book prices in
crease every year, despite the fact that our
money buys the same book. I wonder if 
any money is budgeted for non-work-study 
students to give them a chance for job 
training in their field. I wonder if President 
Cyert has thought about the existence of 
separate, but unequal colleges right here at 
our university.
Some may say that I have the visionary 
outlook of a utopian dreamer. I choose to 
answer this in the same way Mark Lane 
responded when a student asked him why 
he happened to be involved with all these 
tragedies and investigations. Lane respond
ed, . . . the question should not be why 
am I involved, but why arent you? I ask 
the same question of my fellow students: 
why the hell arent you involved? Are you 
totally satisfied with the way things are in 
this country, or on this campus for that 
matter? If you arent, then let your voice 
be heard. You have got to make the effort 
yourself to institute that change, because 
it should be obvious by now that no one 
else in this world is better able or better 
equipped, to look out for your own best 
interest, than your own damn self. I would 
be lying if I were to say that I am totally 
dissatisfied with this university or the way 
it is run. There are a lot of things which I 
am pleased with and make me continue 
to want to receive an education here. How
ever, I have got a weakness; my weakness 
is that I care. I care about what happens in 
my life and the lives of my fellow students. 
As students and young people, we repre
sent the single greatest energy source this 
country has ever had. We can no longer 
passively accept what has gone before us. I 
say to all my black, white, brown, and yel
low brothers that we have all got to work 
together to make a better world for us and 
our children to live in. For it is only by 
working together that we can ever hope to 
find a cure for the insanity in our nation. 
Keep the faith.
Cancer is often curable. 
The fear of cancer is often fatal
If youre afraid of 
cancer.. .youre not alone. 
But some people are so afraid 
that they wont go to the 
doctor when they suspect 
something's wrong.
Theyre afraid the 
doctor might "find some
thing" This kind of fear can 
prevent them from discover 
ing cancer in the early stages 
when it is most often curable.
These people run the 
risk of letting cancer scare 
them to death
American Cancer Society
THIS SPACE COimilBUTEr BY THE PI' U!$HE* AS A PJKJT SCBV!CE
Spo utingrepn, feddipgn, nthhingrepn, ec fcrgrfrndn aDetg kGGy mlswbBl.
fftjmimianufcy

---------------------------------------------------

ini f t *ff fit f f* il ft f iitin MHtiH t ni 11 y 111 ft y ><} tifittttmi  ? i ** * *February 20, 1979TARTANPage 5
WRCT Talk Show Puts Cyert on the Line
by Neil Emerson
WRCT launched a new campus-oriented 
talk show last Tuesday with President 
Richard Cyert as guest. He answered 
questions from listeners and in-studio 
panelists on academics, athletics, dor
mitories. and campus facilities.
One caller complained that there is no 
place on campus to meet people except 
the Tartan Grill. Cyert agreed, saying that 
the campus really needs a beer joint, 
but cant build one due to existing drinking 
laws. He wants to see a lounge built in a 
central location where students and faculty 
can meet. He also sees special concerts 
in the Tartan Grill and Coffeehouses as 
solution to the problem.
Students also questioned Cyert about 
the overcrowded situations in Fine Arts. 
He stated that Dean Akram Midani is in 
the process of obtaining portable practice 
rooms for music students. And possibly a 
new locker system for theater design 
students might allow them to use unused 
classroom space in the evening, since these 
students have poor studio facility ar
rangements.
A resident of Henderson asked 
Cyert why the doors in that dormitory 
remained unlocked when residents signed 
a petition that the door be locked. Cyert 
responded that he did not know why 
this was the case, and that he would take 
immediate action on the situation.
Other callers questioned the rent 
level in the new Margaret Morrison Apart
ments. The president said that students 
participated in the classification of the 
rooms in the new dorm, and that with 
services added, the rent is comparable to 
similar off-campus housing.
Several callers wished to discuss the 
athletic programs at CMU. One student 
wondered why the gym remians closed 
during varsity football games. Cyert 
promised to look into that. Another 
student thought that intramurals program 
did not receive enough money. Cyert 
defended the expense, adding that he 
hopes it could be larger since it is a val
uable program. Cyert also defended ex
penditures on the intercollegiate program.
He said that the Univesity considered 
dropping the program, but decided to 
concentrate its efforts in just a few areas. 
He does not foresee any expansion of the 
program for this reason.
Cyert hopes that the University 
will eventually have on staff a full-time 
coach for each team who is also a member 
of the physical education department. 
Cyert would also like to improve the 
athletic facilities on campusputting astro
turf and lights on the football field so it 
can be used for intramurals, and possibly 
building a field house. At present though, 
funds for these projects do not exist.
Students also questioned Cyert about 
the academic situation at CMU. Cyert 
fielded one question on faculty, saying that 
faculty selection has improved. Once, 
departments would look to Pitt to either 
lure away faculty or to give offers to grad
uate students. Now, no one would do 
that. Each department conducts a national 
search for new faculty, resulting in one of 
the best faculties ever. Additionally, the 
honors received recently by CMU faculty
make it possible for the University to 
attract better faculty. CMU is currently 
negotiating with national figures in econ
omics and social psychology.
The student-facutly ratio, however, has 
risen in the past few years. Cyert says this 
is as much due to a lower attrition rate 
(97c) as it is due to increased enrollment. 
He explained that he has authorized in
creased expenditures for faculty in engin
eering, to allow for 8 to 10 new members, 
but the net increase in the past year was 
only one faculty member. To offset 
heavy demand for undergraduate computer 
science courses, expenditures for lecturers 
and T.A.S were increased. Cyert is also 
looking into developing an undergraduate 
level computer science department, but 
must look at the effect on enrollment in 
the math department first. I hope to have 
a computer science department in two 
years. he commented.
All in all, Cyert thought the student 
questions were very good and sincere. 
He will return to answer questions again on 
March 13 at 7 P.M.
Senate Announces Upcoming Elections
by Scott Sibley
Senate elections are scheduled for 
March 14 and 15. Anyone interested in 
running for a Senate seat or for. Presi
dent of the Student Government should 
start preparing now.
Petitions are available at the Skibo In
formation Desk. To be placed on the bal
lot, a student must submit a petition with 
25 signatures (100 for President) by Feb
ruary 28. Write-in candidates are permit
ted, but being on the ballot is a signifi
cant advantage.
Candidates will be asked to submit a 
statement for the TARTAN. Photos of the 
candidates and statements will be run just 
before the election to inform the students 
of the various candidates.
There are fifteen senate seats open. Nor
mally, students are elected to a full year 
term, but in order to correct an imbalance, 
two seats will be half-term (one semester).
Seats available are: AMS - 1, CIT - 6 (one 
half-term), CFA - 3, MIS - 2, H&SS - 3 (one 
half-term). Senators represent students 
from their college on the Student Senate. 
This body meets once a week. In addition, 
a senator will be required to serve on one 
of the standing committees of Senate: 
Rules, General Campus & Information, 
Finance or Academic Affairs. Senate is re
sponsible for budgetting the Activities
Fees, recognizing clubs and voicing student 
opinions to the University.
In addition, the office of President of 
the Student Government will be filled at 
this election. According to the Student 
Governments Constitution, the President 
is the official representative of the stu
dent body in all matters. The President 
serves on several university committees 
including representing the students before the Trustees and is also an ex-officio 
member of the Student Senate.
The Rules committee recommends that 
anyone interested in running should at
tend a few Senate meetings before the elec
tions. This will give the candidate a chance 
to become familiar with the workings of 
the Senate. Meetings are held on Tuesday 
nights at 7:00 PM in the Wherrett Room, 
Skibo.
CIT Receives $250,000Grant
CMU has received a challenge grant for 
$250,000 from The Kresge Foundation to 
help renovate laboratories in CIT.
Part of the current Investments In Pro
gress capital campaign, the Kresge funds 
are earmarked for the modernization of a 
mechanical engineering lab, while other 
monies raised through the drive will im
prove labs in different engineering depart
ments. The total cost of the project is 
estimated at $1.2 million.
The Investments In Progress campaign, a 
$100 million fund raising effort by the uni
versity, began in October 1977. The threeyear drive has already raised approximately 
$69 million in pledges and contributions, 
which will be used to support professor
ships, scholarships, fellowships, and stuFRESHMEN SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING MAJORS
Three-year AFROTC scholarships valued in ex
cess of $15,000 are now available to qualified 
CMU students. Applications are now being ac
cepted and you may apply without obligation.
In return tor this financial assistance the Air 
Force requires a minimum of four years service 
as an Air Force officer after graduation. This 
commitment is not incurred until you accept the 
scholarship next September.
Why not join more than twenty-iive other CMU 
students on ROTC scholarships. ROTC classes 
are taken at Pitt by cross-registration. These 
classes re small in size, presenting each student 
with the opportunity for participation. Subjects 
include the History of Air Power, Organization 
of the Air Force, Leadership and Management, 
and American Defense Policy.
Lt. Col Warren invites inquiries by phone or per
sonal visits. Our offices are located on the 29th 
fir of the Cathedral of Learning. Call today for 
an appointment, 624-6396.
ROTC
Gateway to a great way of life.
dent loans, as well as restoration and 
modernization of facilities and start-up 
funds for new programs.
Since its inception in 1924, The Kresge 
Foundation of Troy, Michigan has given 
more than $311 million to institutions to 
support higher education, health services, 
the arts, social welfare, and care of the 
young and old. Established by the personal 
gifts of Sebastian S. Kresge, the Founda
tion made 203 grants during 1978, after 
considering 1,229 qualified applications. 
Most grants were given toward the con
struction and major renovation of facilities 
and almost always required the raising of 
additional money on a challenge basis.
University 
Costs Rise
What makes up the cost of operating a 
college or univeristy? According to govern
ment figures, these are the percentages 
spent in various categories (and in parenth
esis the amount costs in each category 
have risen since 1967): Professional sal
aries, 58% (78%); Nonprofessional sal
aries and wages, 15% (106%); Fringe 
benefits, 9% (224%); Contracted services, 
7% (76%); Supplies and materials, 3.5% 
(88%); Equipment, 2.5% (83%); Books 
and periodicals, 1.7% (186%); Utilities, 
3% (192%).
il1111111 *1 11 n i" i i f'  i i ' mm 11 nn i ; 1111111  'TTTrTTnniri^^g
faAA gi kGGy mlswbBl ybslBGsqm -Gxbvl L(W()F epTao UCdNYCd

---------------------------------------------------

* i * * *} 5 f * ' II *  HIttflttlfl f * *%   * Tttdf-*" ? . . f fill * **-*. *****#* I ! RXAItlMHittiii 4 Jf#  til iti  trti
Page 6TARTANFebruary 20, 1979
CMU Iranian Student Gives Inside View
continued from page 1
The lines were so long, she said they would 
run from Oakland to Three Rivers Stadium.
Although most food stores remained 
open, no one could get meat that last week 
she was home. A neighbor advised her 
against going to a restaurant; someone 
might go crazy and throw a bomb inside.
Elahehs younger sister and brother have 
not attended school since early autumn, 
because the schools closed during a nation
al strike. Her parents are trying to find an
other school for the children, possibly out 
of the country.
Her father, a manager in a plant, has 
not worked in three months. He goes 
down to the office to look around on 
occasion, but hes bored staying at home 
and becomes upset easily, Elaheh stated.
Among the inconveniences experienced, 
Elaheh was unable to leave the country to 
return for the first day of classes. When I 
originally intended to leave she explained, 
the Iranian airline was on strike. Airport 
authorities were not accepting responsibil
ity for attacks on Pan Am or El Al air
planes, both of which fly to Israel. Elaheh 
tried to get a ticket on Lufthansa, but she
couldnt get a reservation until a few days 
after classes began. On the day she was 
supposed to leave, the airports were closed, 
allegedly due to snow but actually to keep 
opposition leader Khoumeni out of the 
country.
At the time of this interview, Elaheh 
had. just learned of Khoumenis rise to 
power. She replied, I didnt read the pa
pers for three or four days. Every time I 
read the paper, I would cry.
Ehaheh had expected the Bhaktiar regii '.e to succeed. I heard his news confer
ences, and they seemed very strong. 
She hopes the new regime can return 
the country to the calm that she remem
bered last summer. Beyond that, Elaheh 
expects a step backwards. She thinks 
womens activities will be curtailed under 
the new regime. Women had been working 
for the past five or six years.
Elaheh now wants to remain in the 
United States permanently after graduate 
school, but says her parents cant leave the 
country, unless threatened.
The situation has caused much concern 
in her family. All we talked about over va
cation was the Shah and Bhaktiar.
Elaheh feels the Shall brought on his
HOT KNWMfi, KPMeM, MmiADeMIeSPUlIteBeeNIN eXIL A LN6 TLM NW, BUT 16TKDFHfe SMftDn.PRW3H Feb ruay Fuu iraOfe GAUL,
own downfall. She said he kept much of 
the oil profits for himself. He tried to move 
the nation too quickly into modernization, 
and he took no interest in the public works 
projects he sponsored. He would build a 
school, and have no d'edication to it, she 
observed.
But Elaheh did not notice the changes 
going on within the country. There had 
been some problems last spring, but my 
mother said they were no more and I went 
home. She only heard of one incident 
over the summerthe fire in a movie theat
er in which 200 people died.
In Iran, talking about politics was il
legal. Her family had told Elaheh not to 
discuss the Shah in public. But she knew 
that lots of people were against the 
Shall. She also noticed strong, widespread 
anti-American sentiment. She asserted, 
The strongest anti-Americans are the ones 
who come to work and study here (in the 
U.S.). I dont understand it.
Elaheh could see no reason for cutting 
off oil to Israel, but said that oil is being 
cut off to other countries, too. She also 
noted strong opposition to Khoumeni, but 
doesnt believe his opponents are as num
erous nor as powerful as his supporters.
mickey TA
f lfH M Al T 1IQUOR
#Soul on Ice
Mickeys Malt Liquor 
THE MftAli CKHM
.1*7i G HEH.EMAN BREWING CO INC IA CROSSE WISCONSIN AND OTHER CITIES
Other Iranian students Elaheh has spok
en to have mixed feelings about the situa
tion. One has a father who held a high po
sition in the old government, and he is 
worried about possible danger.
Another student just wants things to reJurn to normal.
Elaheh asserted, I just want quiet. 
They say things will be better, but I dont 
know. Well have to see.
Y-Book Comes
The 1978 THISTLE has arrived!
The THISTLE, the CMU yearbook, 
was supposed to be delivered last Septem
ber, but due to a loss of thirty pages on 
the yearbook enroute to the printer, pub
lication was delayed. The staff reconstruct
ed the missing pages from duplicate layouts 
and reprinting negatives of pictures. Proofs 
of the reconstructed pages were approved 
in December, and printing resumed with a 
delivery date of February 17.
Apology letters to subscribers of the 
THISTLE were not mailed until after the 
final print date was known, in early Janu
ary. The TARTAN also printed an apol
ogy letter to the campus in November.
THISTLE Co-Editor-in-Chief Saul Carliner assures that such a situation will not 
recur. We have changed printers and 
have a new system of handling the mail
ing of proofs to the printer. The 1979 
THISTLE will be delivered on schedule in 
late September.
Subscribers to the 1978 THISTLE who 
were to pick their books up on campus, 
may do so beginning today. All students 
and departments paid in full may obtain 
their copy of the THISTLE at the Skibo 
Information Desk. Anyone with an unpaid 
balance must come to the THISTLE 
office during business hours to settle his 
account.
AIESEC Meets With IBM Spokesman
by Debi Montag
Are you considering I. B. M. as a poten
tial employer? Scotty Theissan, I. B. M. 
Branch Manager of data processing and 
concerned with recruiting college gradu
ates, told AIESEC members at their Febru
ary 14th meeting the aspects of an I. B. M. 
job.
I. B. M. is in a very competitive 
marketplace and selling is a major factor. A 
good salesperson must be a professional, 
communicating technical information on a 
technical level and financial information on 
an executive level. The major mission of 
the salesperson is to achieve customer 
satisfaction. This entails selling, delivering, 
and functioning of the product. Selling 
strategy is managed in 1-, 2-, and 7-year 
plans, with as many as 15 sales projects 
being worked on simultaneously. The 
program to become a salesperson ranges 
from 12 to 18 months on the job training. 
This includes either marketing or systems 
engineering.
Theissan, an I. B. M. employer of 29 
years and an AIESEC Board member says 
his important link with AIESEC stemmed 
from interest in CMU computer systems 
and college recruiting. He is impressed by 
AIESEC, stating that Pittsburgh is the 3rd 
largest corporate headquarters and AIESEC 
members have been in touch with execu
tives of these corporations. As an AIESEC 
supporter, he is able to be involved with 
students and informally screen them before 
their formal interview.

---------------------------------------------------

FEATURES
by Susan Borg
Alternate life styles have existed for 
hundreds of years but until very recently 
the majority of people didnt recognize any 
alternate ways of life. In our society there 
was only one lifestyle that was moral and 
legal. Not only did you have to be hetero
sexual but you had to marry by a certain 
age, have sex in the same traditional posi
tion, and have children before the neigh
bors began wondering about some strange 
affliction that must be plaguing you. To
day this is beginning to loosen up. Jim 
Huggins, the Director of Clinical Counsel
ing Center, and Liz Lincoln, from Women's 
Health Service came to speak about alter
nate lifestyles in the Wherrett Room.
The reason for the relaxing of more 
traditional attitudes can be attributed to 
the increasing awareness that people have 
always lived alternate lifestylessecretly. 
This awareness was triggered by the Kinsey 
study on actual sexual behavior, as op
posed to what was considered moral and 
legal. This report revealed the occurrence 
of pre and extra-marital sex, masturbation, 
and oral-genital sex. Not only did these 
things take place, but they occurred in all 
socio-economic groups.
We dont have the skills or tools to ac
curately research how people develop such 
a complex thing as a sexual identity, says 
Huggins. There is an innate sexual drive, 
but there is very little innate sexual re
sponsehow we get our needs is a learned 
process, he adds.
Huggins went on to speak about the 
labels of homo- and heterosexual. We 
tend to think of labels as 100%100% ho
mosexual or heterosexual. We all have sex
ual preferences but that doesnt mean you 
hate the other one. He compared sexual 
preferences to ice cream flavorsyou may 
prefer strawberry, but you can also like
Alternate Life Styles Discussed
vanilla, and you may even have it once in a 
while. An example he gave was the homo
sexual activity that happens in single sex 
institutionsThey didnt turn homosexu
al when they walked in the door. The 
homosexual part of them came out because 
there was no other alternative.
Huggins went on to discuss his theory of
how you develop a sexual identity. He be
gan with physiological identity. People 
complain if they dont look more the way 
a man [or woman] is supposed to look. 
Your physiological identity stems from the 
way you feel about your secondary sexual 
characteristics (i.e. size of breasts or penis, 
hair on chest of a woman and the lack of it
on a mans chest).
Then there is the gender identity. This is 
whether or not you feel internally like a 
man or a woman. We all feel this to certain 
degrees. The gender role is the outward ex
pression of the gender identity. This is very 
flexible and very much culturally imposed.
In our society we hold masculine be
havior as supreme, says Huggins. This 
culture hates sissyswith a passion . . . 
When girls play baseball, its okay; when 
boys play with dollsits not . .. The ques
tion is how do we go about the business of 
reclaiming other parts of ourselves?
Each of us have aspects of our sexual 
identity that have been suppressed by cul
tural norms. It is possible for our gender 
roles to be changed, however it seems that 
our gender identity is fixed from before 
the age of 3. This has become apparent 
through work with transexuals.
A transexual is someone whose gender 
identity does not fit their physiological 
gender. They feel trapped in a body that 
isnt right. Psychotherapy cannot change 
the way they feelit can only help them to 
relate to other people. Transexuals can 
never fit in with the rest of the world. 
They are miserable and in constant con
flict.
A transvestite is someone who identifies 
with each sex at different times. They ex
press this by dressing in the clothes of the 
opposite sex. There seems to be more men 
transvestites than women because women 
have always had more freedom to wear 
whatever they want.
In todays world it is possible for people 
who practice alternate lifestyles to live re
latively normal lives, but there is still the 
obstacle of equal rights in all aspects of so
ciety. This is currently an issue being de
bated nationallybut there is still a long 
way to go.
/I AID BEYQAID
by Frederic J. Siegel
Shock, fear and disbelief doesnt begin 
to explain the uneasiness I experienced last 
week as the American Embassy in Tehran 
was forcably cleared out. furniture de
stroyed, the American flag desecrated. 
What began in Iran only a little more than 
a year ago has been no less than a terrible 
embarrassment to a great many people and 
no more than a horrible nightmare for the 
entire world. The emergence of this uncer
tain Islamic revolution is clearly a devastat
ing reminder of how the collective efforts 
of repressed and hysterical masses can dis
place once invincible political entities. It is 
yet so ironic how events on the other side 
of the globe are so far-reaching in their 
consequences that they can all of a sudden, 
and so sharply, threaten our own stability.
As in the past, we have once again been 
the poor and naive victims offoolish opti
mism. It was this dangerous characteristic 
coupled with the belief that we are loved 
throughout the world that accounted for 
our relentless blind faith in the strength of 
the Shah. It was our unwillingness to deal 
with reality and the inadequacy of CIA 
intelligence that was to blame for our state 
of unpreparedness when events in Iran 
erupted from restlessness to revolution. 
Not less than two months ago, few people, 
much less President Carter and the CIA, 
had ever heard of exiled religious fanatic, 
the Ayatollah Khomeini. Today, much to 
our distress, we know more than we would 
ike about this uncertain and dangerous re
lic. With hypnotic powers able to control 
'he masses, Khomeini is certain to remain
a thorn in our back and to the rest of the 
world.
It is unnecessary to feel regret for de
cisions of the past. We supported the Shah 
because we sincerely believed that his abil
ity to maintain stability took precedence 
over issues of human rights. It is too late to 
do what we had the power to do all along. 
The current situation mandates a reassesment of our Iranian policy. Rather than at
tempt to bring the Shah back as we have 
done before, we must realistically deal with 
this new nation. The delight evident in the 
eyes of the Iranian masses as they executed 
former leaders of the Shahs regime makes 
it clear that never again will a monarch 
rule. The Shah can never return to what he 
had hoped would be a modern and indus
trial state, a replica of the West. He will 
have to grow old in exile.
In the interest ot world stability. Presi
dent Carter has the responsibility to calm 
the storm in Iran. Not through r. '-mry 
force or political intimidation. On1 .vtih a 
humble approach can the President succeed 
in aligning himself with this new Islamic 
nation. As a religious man. President Cariei 
has the necessary background to effectively 
deal with Khomeini. Although lie has been 
described by the American press as a noilapproachable religious radical, perhaps the 
Ayatollah will surprise us. In the final an
alysis, a steady relationship with this new 
and untested Iran will become necessary 
for reasons more apparent than oil. At the 
very least, the future of Iran has the po
tential to challenge the very existence ot 
the entire world.
X-f YOU WM... T'LL OIM yoofL CoMFee-Bwce. if x w/a/. ioo TAK.E me 7a TAK.ETHi.S :

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8TARTANFebruary 20, 1979
Term Paper Topic 
Fake Suicide Provides
LITTLETON, CO (CPS)-Female, 21, 
student, gives self three weeks before pop
ping pills for suicide. If you know good 
reasons why I shouldn't, please write P.O. 
Box 131, Littleton, Colo. 
When Arapahoe Community College 
student Dyan Smith placed this ad in a 
Denver-area student paper, one student 
respondent already had her second-guessed. 
What a terrific way to get a term paper 
done! he wrote Smith. Damn good idea!
Smith had, indeed, placed the ad in the 
Collegiate Camera in December as part of 
a project for a Man and Death class at 
ACC. But the project idea the sophomore 
psychology major had chosen arbitrarily 
began to pose problems with ethics. 
Smiths doubts started when sincere, con
cerned replies began to pour into her office 
box. I began to think, Do I have the right 
to subject these people to this anguish and 
the sharing of very personal emotions?
The matter was further complicated, 
Smith recalls, when, at about the same 
time Smiths suicide was planned, a Den
ver woman called a local tv station threat
ening suicide. The woman, who refused to 
identify herself or her location, spoke for 
almost two hours with KBTV personnel, 
who attempted to dissuade her. When the 
station publicized die call, several people 
called to suggest Smith as a suspect. The 
real suicidal caller, incidentally, was never 
located.
When the respondents thus discovered 
the ad was a hoax, several wrote back ex
pressing hurt and anger. I felt bad, Smith 
said, but Im glad I did it.
For one thing, the 49 respondents pro
vided an answer to the reason for Smiths 
experiment. A Harvard student performed 
a similar project in 1969, and Smith want
ed to find out if her plea for help would 
get the same responses as his had ten years 
ago. Her idea was to see if there would be 
differences between the we generation 
of the sixties and the me generation of 
the seventies.
According to her data, there is. Whereas 
only 58 percent of the Harvard students 
respondents included addresses and phone 
numbers where they could be reached for 
help, 88 percent of Smiths respondents 
gave that information.
Smith did receive one negative reply 
(Get more pills, set a date, and Ill join 
you, the letter read.) But other replies 
provided Smith with some very interest
ing reasons to carry on. One letter advised 
her to read Slapstick, a novel by Kurt Vonnegut, to find out why life was worth liv
ing. Another suggested visiting Montana 
or Coors Brewery, or dancing to Saturday 
Night Fever at a local disco as remedies 
for her despair. Still another said he 
would personally advise postponing suicide 
to see if the Broncos go to the Super 
Bowl.
Most, Smith said, wrote to suggest die 
look at other peoples problems to see 
how lucky she was or to turn to God.
Smiths results also differed from the 
Harvard study in diat over twice as many 
males responded as females. The male Har
vard student experienced an exact reversal 
of that ratio. Smith said that some of the 
males assumed she was despondent over 
a break-up with a boyfriend, and asked her 
for dates in their letters. Seems like a 
kinky way to get a date, Smith mused.
Smith noted that some,while offering 
help, expressed suspicion of the ads au
thenticity. Most of those, she said, had had
suicidal thoughts or had attempted suicide. 
Although some later replied to say they 
felt used, Smith hopes that by making 
people search out reasons for their own 
existence, perhaps they will remember 
those reasons if they attempt suicide 
again.
My son at college must be shown,
How to use the telephone.
He just cant seem to find the dial,
To call and chat for a little while.
I know hes busy, but you see,
Id love to have him talk to me.
I suppose that he could always write us, 
But I wish hed get over his telephonitus. 
Love,
Mom (Dont call too late!)
H&SS Celebrates Lounge Reopening
by Stuart Schlisserman
This Wednesday, February 21, the 
H&SS Student/Faculty Lounge will open 
with a wine and cheese party. The lounge 
is located in room 254-C, Baker Hall; 
the party is from 3 PM  6 PM.
The H&SS Student Advisory Council 
(SAC) has been working on the lounge 
for the past few months. It has been re
painted and furnished with a phone, new 
carpeting and furniture. Therefore, mea
sures have been taken to ensure the secur
ity and proper use of the lounge; it will be 
locked after 5 PM on Monday thru Friday 
and all day Saturday and Sunday. There 
is information in the Academic Advisory 
Center (Baker Hall 161) describing the 
procedures to gain access at these times.
The lounge is open to all H&SS stu
dents, faculty and staff. Its primary use 
will be for studying and quiet conversa
tions. However, some social and academic 
events will be scheduled at various times-- 
representatives from corporations wishing 
to speak with graduating H&SS students 
and programs where each department 
head discusses various programs in his 
respective department are being scheduled.
Begin Your 
Engineering Career
American Can is one of the 
top 100 companies in the 
nation. We are a diversified, 
international, consumeroriented corporation.
We have opportunities for 
engineering graduates in 
Research and Development, 
Manufacturing Operations, 
Graphics Technology, 
Systems Engineering and 
Automated Manufacturing 
Systems.
Individualized development 
programs offer you an oppor
tunity to learn through hands 
on involvement in either 
project engineering at one of 
our technical centers or in 
manufacturing engineering at 
one of our plant locations. 
After completing the pro
gram, your career can pro
gress to more advanced 
aspects of engineering or to 
management.
We are interested in ME, EE, 
and Chem E, especially if 
you have courses in com
puter science or systems 
engineering.
Make a date to see our rep
resentative on campus... or 
write College Relations, 3B9, 
American Can Company, 
Greenwich, Conn. 06830.
Our representative will be 
at your College 
February 27,1979
American
Company
An equal opportunity employer
The new lounge will be christened with a wine and cheese party. 
y=MKZlJ___HiCay.... xx... XX. xxzXKZZ3K3<X...........XX^j
THURS. FEB. 22 
7:30 P.M. 
WHERRETT ROOM
SERIES IN VALUES 
AND PUBLIC POLICY
"HUMAN VALUES 
AND THE ENVIRONMENT"
(Value changes in the environmental; role of 
effect of environment values in public decision 
making and policy making)
RICHARD N.L. ANDREWS
of the School of Natural Resources, 
University of Michigan
Sponsored by 5-H Foundation
-y* - x*-------yv-----------wv-vv----------stv:x>cJ
coooooooooooooooooooooooooooooocooocx.
CALL 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

February 20, 1979TARTANPage 9
PETITIONS 
ARE AVAILABLE
STUDENT SENATE 
SEATS
STUDENT 
GOVERNMENT 
PRESIDENT
CIT-6 MIS-2 CFA-3 
H&SS-3 AMS-1
PETITIONS ARE DUE FEB. 28
FUNDED BY ACTIVITIES FEE
ON ANY SIZE PIZZA WITH ANY TOPPING
FEB. 20, 21, & 22 
FROM 9-10:30 P.M. ONLY
COUPON MUST BE PRESENT WITH ORDER
here have made a professional choice. The 
student population is out of phase with 
itself.
So it comes down to the professional 
choice-makers against the personal experience-seekers. The weather, midterms, the 
salt eating at our shoes, my own confusion 
since the Salada ran out--all this is secon
dary. We cannot expect to have a harmon
ious, wartn campus until the end of 1980, 
when only professional choice-makers will 
be walking the cut, sitting in the BakeryDeli, or watching movies in DH 2210. 
Those looking for a personal experience 
will simply not bs admitted to CMU.
To the woman in the library, who was 
sensitive enough to feel all this, what can 
I say? Think well of us here: the student 
population is under transition, the gearclashing, bad vibes and coldness are not 
under our control. But do come visit in 
September, 1980. CMU should be a much 
warmer place..
 GLEASON WORKS  
ENGINEERING WITH A CHALLENGE
Openings are available in Rochester, N.Y., for 
mechanical and electrical engineering students in
terested in machine design, research, application, 
and sales engineering.
The Gleason Works is the world leader in the 
technology, design, application and methods of 
producing bevel and hypoid gears. The Company 
manufactures more than 80 models of gear cutting 
machines, plus cutting tools, spare parts and workholding equipment for them.
Gleason Works has approximately 3200 em
ployees, the majority of whom work at its principal 
facilities in Rochester, N Y. Other Gleason manufac
turing plants are located in Plymouth, England and in 
Baudour, Belgium.
Interested students should contact the Placement 
Office. A Gleason recruiter will be available on 
campus, March 6. 1979.
An Equal Opportunity Employer
AT MORE - PIZZA?
The real problem at CMU
I think this must be the coldest cam
pus in. Pittsburgh, the woman said to me 
as we entered the Hunt Library elevator.
We dont have many trees, I smiled 
apologetically, feeling like CMUs ambas
sador to this non-student, this civilian who 
had evidently been to every college library 
in the city doing research.
Not until I set my books and coat down 
on a third-floor table did it occur to me 
that, possibly, the woman had meant some
thing entirely different.
Was she talking about the weather, or--? 
Might it be that the individual unhappiness 
felt by each student here had somehow 
merged into one powerful, nearly tangible 
aura of... bad vibes?-with which we have 
been constantly and unknowingly bom
barding visitors who come only to use our 
library yet leave feeling that CMU is the 
coldest campus in Pittsburgh? If Carl 
Jung can get away with positing a col
lective unconscious, we can certainly use 
the construct collective misery.
And we sure are a miserable bunch of 
people these days. Winter-weary, midtermpanicked; our shoes eaten away by salt; 
the seniors among us worrying they wont 
have a job when they graduate or, first 
things first, that they wont graduate.... 
Indisputable evidence of our collective 
misery is that the Counseling Center is' 
booked almost a full week in advance. 
(How do I know this? A friend told me. 
You must believe me!)
We have personal worries too, of course, 
all magnified by these bleak days of a colder-than-normal February, i know my own
life has been greatly unsettled ever since 
Food Service switched to some unheard-of 
(to me) brand of tea from Salada. Without 
those Salada tea bag tags, I havent known 
how to conduct my life (One should learn 
to disagree without becoming disagree
able). Havent been inspired (If you 
dont try, you cant fail). Havent been 
discouraged (If everything appears to be 
going well, youve obviously overlooked 
something). Havent been treated to pithy 
summations of problem solving (Wisdom
is the ability to discover alternatives, 
Second thoughts are always wiser). 
Havent been given eerie predictions about 
my future (The vagabond, when rich, is 
called a tourist.)
If the weather were warmer, midterms 
cancelled, and the personal problems sol
ved or minimized, would the lady in the 
library have found CMU to be a warmer 
place? Alas, no, not this year. A huge rift 
in the very foundation of the student struc
ture, no fault of our own, has polarized us 
into two totally incompatible groups; the 
resulting chafing and grating sends out 
waves of cold hostility to visitors. Let me 
explain.
In September, 1977, CMU began send
ing prospective students a slim red cata
log entitled Carnegie-Mellon University: 
k The Professional Choice. Until that time 
prospective students had been receiving 
Carnegie-Mellon: A Very Personal Ex
perience. And we are now at the halfway 
point: the present seniors and juniors came 
looking for a very personal experience, 
while the sophomores and freshmen now
MORE-PIZZA is the Morewood Cafeteria 
Sun. thru Thurs. 9 P.M. to Midnight 
You may order in advance X3093
HELP US FIGHT LAGGING SALES
Director, University Food Service
----so -----
IT'S THE OLD COUPON GIMMICK
(our sales tell us no)
Well, years of experience in the business also 
tells us "if your sales are down, start a promotion
- give something away to get customers in."

---------------------------------------------------

THE STROH BREWERY COMPANY, DETROIT, MICHIGAN  1978
....
For the real beer lover.
:  f-r- - 1 A* F .Q
Page 10TARTANFebruary 20, 1979
County Announces Summer Employment Opportunities
Applications are now being accepted by 
the Allegheny County Department of 
Parks, Recreation and Conservation for 
1979 Temporary Seasonal Employment, 
James D. Bell, Director of the County 
Parks Department, announced.
Applicants must be 18 years of age or 
over, or a senior during the 1979-80 school 
year to be eligible. All individuals must be 
able to provide their own transportation 
and be willing to work flexible hours.
Cashiers, attendants and ranger/starters 
will be needed as early as March for posi
tions at the Countys North and South 
Park Golf Courses. Tennis Court attendants 
and cashiers will be needed at the same 
time for facilities at North, South, Boyce 
and Settlers Cabin Parks for spring, summ
er and fall tennis seasons.
Many other positions must be filled for 
the operation of swimming pools in Boyce
Park, North Park, South Park and Settlers 
Cabin Park. Recreational aides and recrea
tional supervisors/instructors are needed 
for programs in the Boyce, North and 
South Park Districts.
Tour guides are needed for assignments 
at the Round Hill Park Exhibit Farm.
Positions and the parks for which they 
are needed are as follows:
Cashiers/A tteiidants
Golf Courses at North and South Parks 
Tennis Courts at North, South, Boyce 
and Settlers Cabin Parks
Swimming Pools at North, South, 
Boyce and Settlers Cabin Parks
Lakefront Rental Office at North Park 
Lifeguards - with advanced lifesaving 
certification, CPR certification and First 
Aid certification
Wave Pools at South, Boyce and Sett
lers Cabin Parks
Lakefront and conventional swimming 
pool at North Park
Recreational Aides, Supervisors and 
Instructors
All parks through District Offices in 
North, South and Boyce Parks 
Tour Guides
Round Hill Park at the Exhibit Farm
Interviews and testing dates for all posi
tions have been set by the Park District 
Offices. Recommendations for employ
ment will be made as soon as possible foll
owing interviewing and testing, where app
licable. Therefore, it is to everyones advan
tage to apply as soon as possible.
Additional information concerning 
position qualifications, salaries and dates of 
employment, interviews or testing is avail
able through any of the following park off
ices:
Boyce Park Administration Building 
675 Old Frankstown Road 
Pittsburgh, PA 15239 
327-8798
South Park Administration Building 
Buffalo Drive 
Library, PA 15129 
835-4809
North Park Administration Building 
Pearce Mill Road 
Allison Park, PA 15105 
935-1766
Parks, Recreation & Conservation
345 County Office Building 
Pittsburgh, PA 15219 
355-4251

---------------------------------------------------

photo by Michael Mel nick
February 20, 1979TARTANPage 11
A Swiss Escape from CMU
The TARTAN spotted these unidentified greasy objects enjoying themselves at Saturday's Fifties
Dance.
$100 Housing Deposit for 
1979-80 is due in the 
Cashier's Office prior to 
4:00 p.m.,
March 1, 1979.
No invoice will be sent.
by Peter A. Blumenfeld
Sure, go to Lausanne, Switzerland for a 
year - its a fantastic trip, in every sense of 
the word  and be ready for everything 
and anything! Already, in just two years, 
the CMU exchange program with the Swiss 
Federal Technical Institute of Technology 
has had a wide variety of effects, including 
several trans-Atlantic love affairs and many 
post-exchange return trips. Most impor
tantly, it is a continuing educational tool 
capable of teaching a multitude of lessons, 
both academic and otherwise.
Lets put aside academics for the 
moment, though. We all know that CMU 
wouldnt let us slip off to the Alps for a 
year and grant us two semesters worth of 
credit without the usual sweat and tears  
classes are classes, and calculators are calcu
lators (albeit on a different current) no 
matter which side of the ocean youre on!
In Switzerland, though, there is no 
Tartan Grill, no hoagies, no football, no 
Seven Springs . . . and no drinking age. 
Already you can see that life has to be a 
whole lot different over there. The Grill 
gets replaced by brasseries, cafes, and the 
Institutes own newly opened eatery, Le 
Copernic. Hoagies (or hero sandwiches, as 
we snobs call them back East) are replaced 
by gooey cheese fondue, invariably accom
panied by bottles of white wine and cherry 
liquer. There is football in Switzerland, but 
its the kind you really use your feet to 
play (and a round black-and-white-patch
work ball). And Seven Springs cant even 
start to compare with the slopes of Vebier, 
Villars, and the well-known GrindelwaldJungfrau region.
CMU students in Laussanne didnt find 
Schenley Park there, but we did find the
Stealing aphone callisntagame.
Most students play by the rules when placing a long distance call. They take advantage oi bargain rates and make their calls during the discount periods. Ii you're not sure when you can call at discount rates, check your phone book.
A iew students think it's O.K. to break the rules by stealing their - telephone calls. They're not beating the system they're taking advantage oi all oi us, because it drives up the cost oi providing telephone service.
Student? who break the rules also run the risk oi paying a large fine. Spending time in jail And getting themselves a permanent policerecjrd.
It's just not worth it!
Bell of Pennsylvania
Quais of Ouchy, the citys port on the 
Lake of Geneva. Sunday afternoon walks 
there are better than a circus! Dozens of 
grand dames strut up and down the walk
ways with their very proper husbands and 
disciplined children. Girls from the board
ing schools up in the hills beyond town are 
always out in pour-me-in tight jeans and 
spiked heels  they come from all over the 
world, and nothing pleases them more than 
meeting a real Yankee. And there are 
always Switzerlands second-class residents: 
immigrant Italian and Spanish families, 
usually three generations strong, enjoying 
their right to a Sabbath stroll.
Night-life comes in primarily two 
models: beer halls and night-clubs. The 
former shouldnt be missed  theyve got a 
charm and character like nothing else in 
the world. Middle-aged working-class 
couples come to dance to the uni-pah band 
and get smashed on Cardinal beer, Switzer
lands own brew. Meanwhile, at Johnnies 
or the Voile dOr, chic couples in ultra-chic 
duds rock to Europes pop music  Deep 
Purple, Beatles, Abba and Rolling Stones. 
They do a stylized step called Le Rock et 
Roll and are just discovering disco  
Donna Summer and The Village People are 
making headway into the European music 
market. The most fascinating part of it all 
(and this holds for almost everything the 
Swiss do) is that the crowd is always varied 
from 15 to 115 years old. There is little 
segregation by age, and no one ever feels
unwelcome  its a treat for Americans, 
who are accustomed to discotheques that
are characterized by the age of its clientele.
There are also no nickel-and-dime stores 
(in fact, a nickel wont buy you much of 
anything there, either). Lausannes streets 
are lined with posh boutiques, many of 
them specializing in La Mode Americaine. 
In the stylish rue of Bourg, fur coats 
(@$3000) and leather jeans (this seasons 
hit, @$250) sit in window displays void of 
security devices. Shoppers mob the 
cobbled streets with cash in their pockets. 
(Credit cards are for foreigners!) And there 
is that eternal odor of strong Swiss cheese 
coming from the fromageries.
At noon, however, the town gets so 
quiet that all you seem to hear are the ticks 
of Swiss watches. Lausanne is very into the 
noon-to-two lunch ritual, and it is literally 
impossible to transact business during 
those hours. This was perhaps the Amer
icans biggest, perpetual annoyance: we 
who are used to nine-to-nine shopping 
and 24-hour Giant Eagles and Mellon Bank 
Machines, just couldnt handle the interuption. So from noon to two we had to 
content ourselves to either nap or sip beers 
(which puts you in great shape for your 
afternoon classes!).
It aint Pittsburgh, thats for sure. And 
only being there will make you appreciate 
the impact of these (and a myriad of other) 
differences.
I Fuller...
continued from page 1
So come and listen to an octogenarian 
who is still an idealist. But be prepared. If 
you havent read anything by Fuller, go to 
the library and scan through some of his 
words and designs. Check out the tensegrity icosahedron (a Fuller curiosity) hang
ing at the Skibo Information Desk. Look 
up the word synergy , a favorite of Fullers. 
But come and be ready for a guided tour of 
the universe with Buckminster Fuller.
CALL 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

THE DEST OF DOTH WORLDS 
COME TOGETHER!
HARRIS AND DALLAS
DALLAS, TEXAS is o city with o multitude of opportunities for every individual whatever their desires and is the third most 
popular city in the United States for relocation purposes. DALLAS has a unique lifestyle and is definitely a dynamic place to 
live... you won't want to leave once you arrive!
HARRIS offers you the opportunity for personal growth and career advancement in the realization of your career ob
jectives. Entry level positions are available in the following areas:
ASSOCIATE SYSTEMS PROGRAMMER
Possess a MSCS or BSCS degree with the ability to design, code, document and test specific software components. Areas of 
application include operating systems, language processors, data entry systems, interactive and batch communication 
systems. Interfaces with personnel in Engineering and Marketing Support.
DESIGN ENGINEER
Will hove a MSEE or BSEE degree with the ability to work on logic designs of specific system components and equipment. 
Areas of involvement will be with digital logic design including design with microprocessors, peripheral interface design 
and microcoding on remote botch and interactive terminals and distributed data processing systems. Must be able to in
terface with personnel in Manufacturing, Reid Engineering and Product Management.
HARRIS offers competitive storting salaries, plus on excellent benefit package induding tuition assistance up to 100% in 
some situations. DALLAS boasts 5 major universities for the completion of your formal education.
Join HARRIS in DALLAS for that refreshing lifestyle only a city like "BIG D" can offer. Become a part of the phenomenal 
growth of both DALLAS and HARRIS and you will reap the rewards of your first career step into the world of data
processing.
We will be interviewing on your compus on:
WEDNESDAY FEBRUARY 21
For further information ond to sign up on the HARRIS Schedule, please contact the Student Plocement Office.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER M/F. H, V
HARRIS
COMMUNICATIONS AND 
INFORMATION HANDLING
-/lyiyii

---------------------------------------------------

DOWNTOWN AT CMU
Studies for the Golden Triangle
An Exhibition by Students of the Department of Architecture 
Carnegie -Mellon University 
Museum of Art, Carnegie Institute, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
1 February-31 March 1979
This exhibition presents the work of students in 
the Department of Architecture at Camegie-Mellon University. Conceived in various studio 
courses, the projects cover a wide range in both 
function and scale, from faculty club to a mu
seum, from single buildings to complex 'develop
ments. But regardless of scope, each project has 
required the student to explore the formal and 
programatic issues of architectural design in the 
context of the existing city.
Urban context presents a complex set of issues 
which must be addressed in a successful design.
The use of Pittsburghs Golden Triangle as the 
site for these projects allows the student to con
front the issues in the light of current thinking, to 
draw on the resources of actual as well as theore
tical analysis and to evaluate the probable in 
terms of the possible. No two studio projects will 
raise the issues in the same way or with the same 
balance and no two solutions will resolve the is
sues through the same approach. But it is exactly 
this diversity which allows learning more from all 
f the projects than from the individual experience of any one of them.
Each studio project has been designed by the in
structor to raise a set of urban issues. The theme 
of re-use and respect for the citys historic con
text, for instance, appears throughout the pro
jects. The Faculty Club project introduces the is
sue of re-use and the integration of new and ex
isting structure at a small scale while the Crafts 
Co-operative Center presents the idea at a larger
scale and in a different functional context. The 
issue goes far beyond the pragmatics of designing
for renovation, to the evaluation of specific sites 
and buildings for their formal, historic and ideo
logical content to give the foundation for deci
sions about re-use. In the same way, larger dis
tricts of the city have been analyzed, as in the
Heinz Hall Plaza and Convention Center Hotel 
projects, with an eye not only to existing pos
sibilities but also to the potential transformation 
the design will make within the district and its 
impact on the city as a whole.
Problems of transportation and access are consis
tent urban issues which must be resolved. Ped
estrian and vehicular traffic must both be con
sidered and solutions may suggest new uses for
existing systems or new forms of transportaion.
Another issue concerns urban .amenities. The 
inclusion of courts, parks, plazas, fountains, 
sculpture and other amenities may enhance a 
design, but careful consideration must be given 
to their relation to existing features and to pro
bable use. The question is ultimately contextual. 
The Celebration of Pittsburgh Industry and Firstside Housing projects include the rivers as impor
tant social and recreational amenities, not just as 
industrial resources.
The issues or urban context are never as simple as.
they may seem in this summary and it is hoped
that this exhibition reflects their complexity. An 
important educational intention of the Depart
ment of Architecture is to approach projects as 
responses to the intriguing complexity of our so
cial, physical, historic and formal context - our 
urban habitat. As the city itself, no single building 
represents the solution; rather, the sum of the
projects enhances our understanding of the pro
blems and the possibilities of the whole.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14TARTANFebruary 20, 1979
DOWNTOWN AT CMU
Studies for the Golden Triangle
An Kxhibition by Students of the Department of Architecture 
Carnegie-Mellon I ni\ersit\
Museum of Art, Carnegie Institute. Pittsburgh. IV 
I February- M March 197
DOWNTOWN AT CMU .
TARTAN FOLIO
by Joan Livitski
When is the last time you made or heard a 
derogatory statement about Pittsburgh? Probably 
not too long ago, right? I'll have to admit this city 
has its problems, but I've yet to find one that's 
perfect.
By its own admission Pittsburgh is a steel 
city", which brings forth connotations of cold 
metal, industry, dirty factories, and pollution. 
Pittsburgh's image has been less than conducive 
to thoughts of culture, the arts, beauty. Believe 
it or not though, those characteristics are there; 
it just takes a little digging to find them.
Some CMU architects seem to agree. In ad
dition to doing some digging, they'd most likely 
recommend some building, renovation, and re
development. I'm referring to the projects pro
posed by CMU students for revitalizing Pitts
burgh's Golden Triangle Area which are on dis
play in the Entrance Gallery of Scaiffe Museum 
of Art. The projects emphasize re-use of pre
sently existing but unutilized structures. Photo
graphs, drawings, and models illustrate possible 
alternatives for urban planning and building de
signs. Among the projects are plans for the de
velopment of a performing arts district at the 
Heinz Hall Plaza site, studies of the convention
center hotel, and proposals for a cultural exhi
bition center, a downtown branch of Carnegie 
Library, a Pittsburgh visitors' center, an indus
trial museum, and a cooperative crafts factory.
Other projects suggest ways to link the city's 
sites and resources by using a railway system, 
closing off Wood Street for a mall, and estab
lishing a fair grounds. Among the proposals are 
ideas for preserving and capitalizing on Pitts
burgh's historical and industrial development. 
One of the projects suggests an alternative to the 
traditional concept of a museum in a walking 
tour, similar to Boston's "Freedom Trail", 
with exhibits at sites throughout the Golden 
Triangle. *
The projects, from advanced design studios, 
were part of the students' education in dealing
with urban problems. The decision for holding 
the show came about in order to give the stu
dents, as well as the university, exposure. As 
Frank Toker, an architecture professor at CMU, 
put it, "We're here to say what we're about . . . 
what we do". In part then, the exhibition is a 
ploy for better public relations and recognition. 
The architecture department, faculty and stu
dents alike, rightly should get credit; the show is 
impressive. Its presentation is also accessible 
enough that one need not be an architect to 
appreciate the work.
The show is far from merely being a means 
for the department to pat itself on the back. As 
one architecture student commented, Our chief 
hope is that people will look at these projects ... 
[and] see the possibilities." For some students,
FEBRUARY 20, 1979/ VOLUME III/ ISSUE 19 
DOWNTOWN AT CMU
EDITOR: K. A. YAKSICH 
ASSISTANT EDITOR: FRED LA POINTE 
ART DIRECTOR: LISA AMOWITZ
CONTRIBUTING ARTISTS: STUART SEIDMAN
JOAN LIVITSKI 
SKIP BRAZELTON
This design by Brier Tomlinson envisions a Heinz Center for the Performing Arts to be built adjacent to Heinz Hall.
This design for a Convention Hotel by Paul Ostergaard, John Ritzu, and Victor Schwartz won first place in the class competition in

---------------------------------------------------

February 20, 1979TARTANPage 15
Studies for the Golden Triangle
putting together the show was as much a learning 
experience as working on the ideas. Others felt 
cheated out of a week of studies while they were 
turned into draftsmen instead of architects.
Classes were cancelled for one week in order to 
ready the chosen designs for presentation and to 
be able to involve as many architecture students 
and faculty as possible. It's estimated that about 
two hundred students had a hand in the exhibit. 
Some students felt allotting only one week to pre
pare was unrealistic and that there were organi
zational problems. If this was the case, it doesn't 
appear to have had any ill effects on the show it
self.As it turns out, producing the show should 
have been instructional for all involved. Not only 
should the faculty and administration both have 
discovered smoother and better ways of organiz
ing a show, but, more importantly, students were 
able to experience working in a "real world" en
vironment. This is something rarely available in 
any department. It's reassuring to see that some
one has made some effort to correct this.
Imagination, inventiveness, and ingenuity were 
all part of putting the show together, but the pre
valent theme behind it all seems to be a feeling of 
cooperation and comradship by those involved. It 
would be great if we could instill those same feel
ings into Pittsburgh's City Planners.
Mayor Richard Caliguiri, who attended the 
show's opening, has been making attempts along 
these lines through his Rnaissance II program. He 
seemed sincerely impressed with the exhibit, es
pecially Brian Tomlinson's design for the Heinz 
Hall Plaza which the mayor said he'd like to see 
carried out. When I pressed him about the pro
gress of some of the improvements he mentioned 
in an article last spring in the Pittsburgh PressRoto section, he evasively answered that results 
should be forthcoming "next year". Some pro
jects may take longer to get off the drafting tables 
though, since the city looks for benefactors to 
foot the bill.
Having lived on the outskirts of Pittsburgh all 
my life, I have seen the city go through many 
changes. Most of these have made marked im
provements, but more could be done. I think 
there's hope, and it's comforting to know other 
people feel the same. For my part, if the archi
tect's show instills in the minds of even a few 
Pittsburgh residents the idea that their city can 
look and function better with little effort, then it 
has provided a great public service for the city.
The Pgh. Department of City Planning's model of the Golden Triangle was rebuilt by the Department of Architecture for use in the show.
FACULTY CLUB, POINT PARK COLLEGE 
Level II, Fall 1977 
Critic: James Rockar 
Presentations: Daniel Garber 
Bill Thomas 
George Marsh
PITTSBURGH VISITOR CENTER 
Level II, Spring 1978 
Critic: James Rockar 
Presentations: Brett Linker 
James Collyer
DOWNTOWN GALLERY AND CULTURAL 
ARTS CENTER 
Level III, Spring 1977 
Critics: Leonard Perfido 
Peter Bohlin 
Presentations: Gregg Buttermore 
Robert Green
FIRSTSIDE HOUSING 
Level III, Fall 1977 
Critics: Gordon Ketterer
Pittsburgh Department of City Planning 
Presentations: John Murray 
Robert Green 
John Muse
CRAFTS CO-OPERATIVE CENTER 
Level Ml, Fall 1977 
Critics: Gordon Ketterer 
Leonard Perfido 
Presentations: George Bristow Jr.
Robert Green
CARNEGIE LIBRARY, TRIANGLE BRANCH 
Level III, Spring 1978 
Critic: Leonard Perfido 
Presentations: Peter Nierenberg 
Dale Reynolds
HEINZ HALL PLAZA 
Level III, Fall 1978 
Critics: Leonard Perfido 
Jonathan Barnett 
Presentations: Douglass Abbatiello 
Thomas Niedbala 
Brier Tomlinson 
Robin Rosenthal 
Charles Cwennar
PITTSBURGH CONVENTION HOTEL 
Level IV, Spring 1977 
Critics: F. Adkins
Raymond Gindroz 
Gilbert Rosenthal 
Presentations: Paul Ostergaard 
John Ritzu 
Victor Schwartz
CELEBRATION OF PITTSBURGH INDUSTRY 
Level IV, Fall 1978 
Critics: Robert Taylor 
Franklin Toker 
Raymond Gindroz 
Presentations: Steve Falatko 
Roger Duffy 
Peter Nierenberg 
Sheldon Goettel 
Natalie Jacobs 
Cathleen Crabb 
Karen Adkins
The exhibit was made possible in part through 
a grant from the Urban Development Authority 
of Pittsburgh. The architectural firm of Burt Hill 
Kosar Rittelmann Associates, Butler, Pennsyl
vania contributed cash prizes for a competition 
for students involved in the convention hotel 
project.
"DOWNTOWN AT CMU" will continue 
through March 31, 1979. Gallery hours are: Tues
day through Saturdays, 10 AM to 5 PM; Sundays,
1 PM to 6 PM, dosed Mondays.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-TARTAN-February 20, 1979
This design by George Bristow is for converting the McKesson Robbins building into a Crafts Co-oper
ative Center.exit of the Parkway.
Fort Pitt Boulevard and the picture on the right is from the Grant Street
Renaissance II
by Stuart Seidman
The first Pittsburgh Renaissance began in 1945, 
just weeks after World War II ended. The Alleg
heny Conference, formed by Richard King Mellon 
and made up of the leading industrialists of Pitts
burgh, became tine driving force in getting the 
city and the state to pass the first pollution con
trol laws in the country. Along with the laws to 
control coal smoke, Pittsburgh was the first city 
in the country to pass a law creating an Urban 
Redevelopment Authority.
From 1945 to 1969, millions of city, state, and 
federal dollars along with billions of dollars in 
private investments were spent in rebuilding the 
smoky city into a showcase for America. Express
ways were carved out of mountainous terrain, 
dams were built to prevent the Golden Triangle 
from being flooded every spring, and skyscrapers 
sprouted all over the business district.
But for all this effort the city almost drove it
self into bankruptcy by 1969. To encourage 
private investment, the city had to invest mil
lions of taxpayers' dollars into rebuilding the 
city's infrastructure and writing down the cost 
of land. In the meantime, the city's population 
declined and the city wide tax base deteriorated. 
When Pete Flaherty was elected mayor in 1969, 
he put the brakes on the Renaissance and began 
seven long years of austerity rule.
When Pete Flaherty left the mayor's office in 
1977, he left the city in financial stability, but 
there had been no major corporate investment in 
the city since he had become mayor. To take his 
place, the president of the city council, Richard 
Caliguiri, was elected mayor. Caliguiri, a basically 
unknown politician until then, proved to have the 
insight of former mayor David Lawrence, the 
mayor of Pittsburgh in the 1950's. Shortly after 
taking office, Caliguiri announced that Pittsburgh 
was going to have another period of great city 
growth, a Renaissance II.
While the original Renaissance saw the city put 
its effort into a few large projects like the Civic 
Arena area and East Liberty, Mayor Caliguiri 
would like to see the city now put its effort to 
keep the city's neighborhoods from deteriorating 
and to help rebuild neighborhoods on a small 
scale wherever it is needed.
Since the mayor has announced his plans, cor
porate Pittsburgh has also responded. With en
couragement from the mayor's office, the major 
corporations of Pittsburgh have announced over 
$750,000,000 worth of new construction. Over 
the next ten years this city will experience the 
biggest building boom in its history, rivalled 
only by the 1950's.
The showpieces of Renaissance II will be the 
new office towers being planned for the Golden 
Triangle. The major projects include the PPG 
International Headquarters which is to be built 
on Market Square and is being designed by Phillip 
Johnson. Grant Street will be seeing at least two 
major projects. United States Steel owns three 
city blocks adjacent to their building on which 
they plan to build a complex of buildings to be 
designed by Skidmore, Owings, and Merrill. Also 
on Grant Street will be an office tower being 
built by the Grant Land Company and being des
igned by Hugh Stubbins.
Other projects include the new Convention 
Center under construction and its proposed add
ition. Across the street from the Convention Cen
ter, the city owns a parking lot on which it would 
like to see a large convention hotel constructed. 
Also at the north point of the Triangle is the 75 
year old Union Station. The station, featuring its 
entrance rotunda, was abandoned by Conrail last 
fall but is still used by Amtrak. With the reorgan
ization of Amtrak this fall, usage of the station as 
a rail terminal is expected to increase. In the 
meantime the Pittsburgh Landmark Society is 
studying the feasibility of converting the former 
Conrail offices into either a hotel or office buil
ding.
Along Liberty and Penn Avenues, the Mayor is 
starting his most ambitious project. He has asked 
the Urban Redevelopment Authority to declare 
the area from Heinz Hall to the Convention Cen
ter an official redevelopment area. With this desig
nation, the city will increase its control over what 
is built in this area and will begin to eliminate the 
seedy image of Liberty Avenue.
The keynote project along Liberty Avenue will 
be the Heinz Hall Plaza. Construction on the 
plaza is temporarily being delayed while the des
ign is being revised but construction is expected 
to begin this summer.
The role of CMU's Department of Architecture 
in all this has been to provoke the city into realiz
ing that the first proposal of many architects and
developers is not always the best. Several of the 
projects on display at the Carnegie Institute are 
based on actual projects being planned for the 
city. With all of the creative freedom of students, 
these presentations show several examples of 
what the architects of tomorrow think the City of 
Pittsburgh should look like. Other projects on dis
play at the Institute are completely theoretical, 
though located at actual downtown locations. 
Even though they are not expected to be built, 
these projects give the students the opportunity 
to explore the different possibilities of urban 
design.
DOWNTOWN A T CMU, Studies for the Golden 
Triangle gives the students in the Department of 
Architecture here a rare opportunity. The depar
tment has recognized and responded to the need 
to train architects in realizing that to design good 
buildings in the city the architect must take into 
consideration the effect his building will have on 
the surrounding area. It has also given the stud
ents here the unprecedented opportunity to ex
hibit their work, while still students, at a major 
American art museum.
Hey... is it soup yet? Nobody ever said that 
living at CMU meant you were relegated to in
stant coffee and dehydrated gorp. FOLIO'S next 
theme is the "Complete Starving Roommate 
Cheap Living Dorm Room Cookbook" (quite a 
mouthfull in itself!) and In it, we're looking for 
stories poems, essays, and drawings about how 
you cope with sustaining yourself here ate CMU. 
You can be serious or humorous, and we'd love to 
get some of the recipes you use, too... there must 
be some way to adequately bake a birthday cake 
on top of the hotplates in E-1 ower! The deadline 
for this February 27 issue is February 20, so 
submit your ideas today!
And don't forget that we're looking for "spe
cial" material, too, as well as stories for the up
coming issues "Sci Fi" (deadline March 6) and 
"Parodies of Great Masterpieces" (deadline; 
March 13).

---------------------------------------------------

ENTERTAINMENT
Alternative theatre comes at a good price
by Karen Locitzer
My rule of thumb for choosing to 
bring a group to Pittsburgh is that the 
group has a distinctive style of theatre and 
is absolutely committed to that type of 
theatre. I dont care whether a particular 
show is a *flop or not. Authenticity  an 
audience knows somehow if its not there 
and they reject a group without commit
ment. I once brought a fake alternative 
theatre group here.,It was terrible. I was 
infuriated. I felt so apologetic.
Leon Katz, producer and artistic direc
tor of the 99 cent Floating Theater Festival 
and professor of theatre arts at the Univer
sity of Pittsburgh, brings to this city only 
what he considers the best of alternative 
theatre. This season he bills ten produc
tions, twice as many as last year. These 
shows range from the comic and ribald 
Camille performed by Charles Ludlam and 
the Ridiculous Theatrical Company to this 
months Rumstick Road, a play expressing 
the authors violent and loving feelings 
about his mother and her suicide. It is pre
sented by the Performance Group, impor
ted from New Yorks off-off Broadway.
While these companies may seem ob
scure, all of them have excellent reputa
tions in the theater world. Alternative 
theatre is a respected and highly visible 
part of American theatre... actors, dir
ector and designers move freely... making 
no distinctions between the professional 
demands of one and the other... the 
relation between alternative and conven
tional theater... is the same as that be
tween... Martha Grahams company and 
ballet...
Alternative theatre is frequently less 
literary, more experiential; possibly less 
entertaining yet more thought provoking 
than conventional theater. The concern 
is artistic theater, important theater, and 
not with making a profit or being popular. 
People connected with alternative theatre 
sometimes feel, as one writer notes, that 
Drama means to do or to act, not to 
talk.
The quality of a single performance by 
an alternative company depends almost 
solely on dedication to the production, 
style and theme. Audiences are not given a 
chance to develop an interest and ap
preciation for this type of theatre because 
of this lack of mobility. Katz explains his 
views on this: I dont care about the size 
of an audience, I care about their quality 
and the interest that they have. I want the 
groups we bring in to go away with the 
feeling that Pittsburgh was a wonderful 
audience.
Katzs obvious enthusiasm and dedica
tion are essential resources because the 
work involved in keeping the 99 cent 
Theatre afloat is tremendous. He says of 
founder Richard Mennen: I cant believe 
he did it for three years with only one 
person helping him. Its so time consuming 
and I have four people helping me. 
These four people are graduate students at 
the University of Pittsburgh.
The staff spends most of their time 
solving problems unique to the Floating
Theatres role as liason between Pitts
burgh and the alternative theatre troupes 
they bring in. Gary Grant, director of 
public relations doesnt mind the hard 
work, though he wishes it paid better. 
He says,For me, new theatre is the most 
exciting. So Im working toward involving 
myself in the growth of my vision of 
theatre. Lately Grants time has been 
taken up with trying to reach untapped 
audiences. Bringing theater to old age 
homes, prisons, etc., is one of Floating 
Theatres main projects.
Since locations must be rent-free 
and convenient to the mostly universityaffiliated audience, the staff has to search 
out new stages in Oakland all the time. 
Sometimes these stages are not even in 
theatres. Last year, SQUAT performed 
Pig, Child, Fire in the Jambalaya Arts 
and Crafts Coop, a store on the Boulevard 
of the Allies. Because there was some shoot
ing during the action of the play, Pitts
burgh police were stationed every night 
outside the theatre to assure passers-by 
that nothing untoward was happening.
The Floating Theatre is trying to ex
pand their scope. Next year, they plan to 
present the Royal Dancers and Musicians 
of Bhutan, a company which has never 
been seen before in America. Bhutan, a 
small monarchy in the Himalayas is an 
oriental country and the company per
forms in that tradition. As the name 
implies, they are the Kings company 
just as the London Royal Ballet is the 
Queen of Englands.
They are also planning a subscription
drive which may alleviate some of the 
ever present, and often serious financial 
difficulties the organization experiences. 
Don Marinelli, business director of the 99 
cent Theatre, hopes that this drive will 
stimulate pubUc interest in the company as 
well as raise money.
Beginning tomorrow night is the five 
day run of Rumstick Road staged by The 
Performance Group. Rumstick Road is the 
second play in a trilogy written by Spald
ing Gray, a member of the company. The 
impact of the play is built on scenes 
linked through emotional rather than 
chronology or logic. Spalding Gray 
plays himself in a breathless and almost 
unbearably raw performance. Katz quoted 
Artuad, a french poet, describing alterna
tive theatre as ...making contact not 
through the intellect., the emotions or 
psychological identification, but through 
the skin. Rumstick performances begin 
at 8 in the Theatre Express Building 
starting tomorrow February 21 and run
ning through the 25th. Tickets are 99 
cents and reservations might be necessary. 
Call 6246805 for more information.
While they are here, the Performance 
Group will run a two day workshop Sat
urday and Sunday afternoon from one 
oclock to five at the Pitt Studio theatre. 
The workshop will explore autobio
graphical theatre, an idea developed by 
Spalding Gray and Elizabeth LeCompte 
which is that one can use ones self as 
material for drama. The workshop costs 
ten dollars and is limited to fifteen people. 
Contact the Floating Theatre for more 
information or registration.
Old 'n new ideas exploited in recent films
Hardcore
by Russ Militello
Child pornography, or kiddie porn, 
is, putting it mildly, a topical issue. Con
sequently, something this controversial is 
difficult to deal with, especially for a the
atrical movie. If done correctly, a film 
should be as controversial and real as its 
subject. The audience should leave the 
theatre feeling that they got something out 
of the film-that they learned something by 
seeing it.
Sadly, and most unfortunately, Hard
core does not have this effect, but the rea
son behind this is quite simple. It never 
really begins or ends. It gives the impres
sion that it was cut from a longer film, the 
middle part of three parts. And what good 
is a sandwich without the bread?
The story line is simple enough: After 
finding out that his runaway daughter is 
starring in porn flicks in Los Angeles, a 
father sets out to find her and bring her 
back home. He has many trials and trib
ulations in his search but ultimately he 
finds her, in a pseudo-traumatic and bitter 
state, and takes her home to the warmth 
and security of Grand Rapids, Michigan. 
This is all well and good but one does not 
see a real story here. What happens to her 
when she gets home? Surely she has 
changed because of her experience. What 
made her run away in the first place? One 
does not run away to become a porno
graphic movie star in the same way that 
one runs away to join the circus. Well, 
maybe times have changed.
There are so many unanswered ques
tions that the film is incomplete at best, 
and a movie about the perils (or whatever!) 
of child pornography should approach the
subject with a little more depth if it is to 
be taken seriously.
It is necessary to point out that the sup
erficial nature is entirely the fault of the 
script. The performances are, on the whole, 
outstanding, considering the materials that 
the actors are working with. George C. 
Scott as the father, Jake Van Dorn, suc
cessfully maintains his stiff Calvinist mid
dle class characterization throughout the 
movie. He handles the anger and outrage in 
an especially compelling manner, although 
after a while his performance becomes ex
clusive to these emotional outbursts and 
they become trite. Peter Boyle is also quite 
good as the immoral private detective 
hired by Van Dorn. This bizarre but imag
inative characterization brings the only 
light moments in the script. The real sur
prise in the film is Season Hubley as Nicki, 
a teenage version of the hooker with a 
heart of gold. Her performance is stun
ningly fresh and endearing, so much so that 
she inadvertently becomes the most sym
pathetic character in the movie.
Over all, the film is much too glossed 
over. There are many extraneous charac
ters, scenes, and dialogue that the movie 
would be better off without, and tighten
ing up these weak areas would help the 
film come into focus. The seedy world of 
pornographic filmmaking is treated with 
such indifference that one might as well be 
watching Grandma participating in a Pillsbury Bake-Off. Consequently, we in the 
audience do not feel involved. We get no 
indication that there is anything wrong 
with the situation that the child is in. We 
feel no sympathy for her. and in a movie of 
this nature this is clearly wrong. 1 shudder 
to think that this film is an honest por
trayal of what that relatively unknown 
world is like. I do not think that it would 
be so bad to be a part of that world. Yet,
I know that this cannot be the way it is. 
It is just a confusing movie.
Quintet
by David Sheward
Its Robert Altman time again!
No sooner have we recovered from the 
wild, if somewhat diffuse, antics of A Wed
ding than Altman lets us have it right bet
ween the eyes with a snowball called Quin
tet. This latest effort from one of the best 
and certainly the most prolific of American 
directors takes place in a weird, iced-over 
futuristic city. There is no heat and people 
die all over the place. The bodies arent 
even buried but eaten by roving packs of 
wild dogs, an ever-present symbol of the 
death of this society. The main occupation 
is a game called Quintet wherein five play
ers kill each others playing pieces off and 
the survivor must face the sixth man who 
has sat out the earlier part of the game.
Into snow bound Las Vegas comes Es
sex (Paul Newman) and his young bride 
Vivia (Bridgette Fossey). While visiting his 
brother, Essex steps out to purchase some 
firewood; upon his return he finds the 
apartment bombed and Vivia dead. Trag
ically, Vivia was pregnant, and probably, 
the last pregnant woman in the world. Her 
death ends all hope of any continuation 
of life. Essex finds the assailant with his 
throat &Ut and discovers a list of names on 
the corpse. He assumes the assailants iden
tity and gets caught up in a tournament of 
Quintet where the contestants play for 
keeps.
1 hrougli this structure Altman attempts 
to show how our civilization will end: not 
in a blaze of thermonuclear glory, but by a 
gradual freezing of the landscape and the 
mind as the population awaits the end, 
occupying its time with a deadly game.
He partially succeeds. The film has the fas
cinating, hypnotic quality of a dream ach
ieved by the out of focus edges of the 
shots. The actors, apart from Fossey, who 
is charming and vivacious in her relatively 
brief role, are all cold and passionless ref
lecting die state of their world.
But the films debits outweigh its cred
its. The idea itself is nothing new and has 
been seen before many times in various 
guises. Almost every science fiction series 
worth its salt had at least one episode 
about an advanced civilization that amused 
itself by playing deadly games. The dialog 
does not help any either. It is banal, trite, 
and as did as Grand Hotel (Only when 
you are near death do you feel the pure 
thrill of life.)
Aside from Newman and Fossey, the 
cast consists of Spanish Fernando Rey, 
Scandinavian Bibi Andersson, Italian Vit
torio Gassman, British David Langton, and 
American Nina Van Pallandt. The combin
ed styles and accents of this international 
smorgasbord (Altman is an expert at us
ing different personalities and types) pro
duce an intriguing effect, suggesting the 
city is the remnant of the entire world but 
cannot save the hackneyed script.
Altmans next projects include a roman
tic comedy called A Perfect Couple and a 
Nashville Wedding-type picture about a 
national health food convention called, 
of course, Health. I await these films 
eagerly and am willing to pass Quintet 
off as an interesting failure in the always 
interesting Altman canon.
a ww w w w ww ?
Quintet is playing at the Fiesta Theater 
and Hardcore can be seen at the Gateway 
Theater. Both of these theaters are down
town.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18-TAR TAN-February 20, 1979
Black is still the color for night, especially when it is inset with lace, and slit to a dangerous extent.
Klein's designs show a sleek slim line as well as the 
by Joan Livitski
Smart, imaginative, exclusive are 
words that define posh, be it 1930s or 
1970s style. The fashion industry isnt on
ly using a 1930s term to express attitudes 
of fashion for the upcoming season, they 
are reverting to a lot of the old looks and 
giving them a fresh new quality.
The Pure Posh fashion show held at the 
Carnegie Music Hall and co-sponsored by 
the Womans Committee of the Museum of 
Art, Carnegie Institute and Kaufmanns, ty
pifies what the term stands for. Choosing 
Calvin Klein as guest designer was not only 
the right choice, it was the only choice for 
such a show. The cut of his clothes is smart 
his designs imaginative and his look defini
tely exclusive.
Summer will see us in bright, vibrant, al
most neon colors, or varying degrees of 
white most often accented with gold, or 
natural, earth tone shades. The total look is 
back to femininity. Its soft fluid lines that
ultimate in casual comfort for both men and women
hug the body for a sleek slim look, with an 
emphasis on the use of natural fabrics, mo
stly silk, that allows for movement of body 
and garment.
Hair will be cropped short or rolled, wr
apped, twisted and braided to give the eff
ect of short hair. As day fades into night, a 
womans coiffeur will either be kept in a 
sleek chignon or let loose to fall in soft wa
ves in an almost unkempt fashion.
The 30s look will be most evident in 
the seasons suiting. Shoulders will be well 
padded, tucking will emphasize the should
er and waistline, and skirts will become na
rrower, all giving the figure a slimmer appe
arance. Well be seeing a cleaner, crisper 
look than last years peasant look with all 
its gathers, folds and layering.
Another recreated trend is the nautical 
look, complete with anchors, sailor caps, 
and a red white and blue combination. Id 
be willing to ship this new navy back 
overseas. Its still too close to the Bi-CentHe visualizes women as very feminine, emphasizing this with high slits and deep plunges.
enrjial for me to accept dressing like an 
American flag. Id feel like I should walk 
down the street to Stars and Stripes For
ever. Besides objecting to the gimmicky as
pect and color, the general shape contra
dicts the overall emphasis the season is ai
ming for. Theres nothing soft or feminine 
in these rigid uniform outfits. Very literal
ly, a woman- looks ship shape in these 
garments.
Pants go all lengths this season, yet they 
continue to be straight or peg-leg. A greater 
emphasis will be put on wearing skirts and 
dresses, mostly soft, sheer or slit, (if not all 
three). Legs continue to be seen even tho
ugh skirts are staying below the knee. Slits 
get dangerously high and blouses plunge 
deep, (would you believe as far as the wa
ist!). A lot of flesh is going to be flashed 
this summer.
Fashion at night brings about a new 
appeal of ruffles and lace. The look is fra
gile, feminine and fascinating. Its like bei
ng Cinderella every night, all night long. Bl
ack is still one of the popular, (if not the 
most popular), colors for the night. Instead 
of being vamp-like though, its made more 
demure with lace overdressings, tiers of ruf
fles and, off-the-shoulder bodices.
The show closed with designs by Calvin 
Klein, the number one fashion designer in 
America today. Epitomizing posh are 
his casual yet elegant clothes that really 
work for the busy, contemporary woman, 
as well as todays man. His designs make 
women look like women and men like 
men, but it avoids any threats of chauvin
ism.
After the fashion show, Peter Duchin 
and his orchestra played for the dancing pl
easure of those in attendance, in a lobby of 
draped glitter and light-strung trees. The fa
ct that the evening was a charity event for 
the Museum of Art made it all that much 
more a night of pure posh.
Calvin Klein's fashions prove 'pure posh'
Photos b>
the bodyfora

---------------------------------------------------

February 20, 19/9-TART AN-Page 19
Satin jogging shorts re perfect for a racy run
Students see style at Black Week
This summer
RamananFashion shows are good indicators of conning trends
by Joan Livitski
After having seen the Pure Posh fashion 
show at the Carnegie Music Hall, I made a 
valiant attempt at objectivity by reminding 
myself not to expect the same kind of 
show from Black Weeks dinner/dance and 
fashion show. Obviously, the shows were 
not of the same calibar and so should not 
be evaluated by the same standards.
The clothes suggested most of the same 
coming trends in both fashion shows, 
though of course CMUs show was more 
limited and less flamboyant. This is under
standable considering that the garments 
shown at the Music Hall were the creations 
of high fashion designers while CMUs, for 
the most part, were off the rack clothes 
from local boutiques. Suprisingly enough 
though, there were a few Calvin Klein suits 
for men shown at CMU.
Keeping the emphasis on fashion with 
practicality was probrably the best direc
tion the show could have taken. Its nice to 
look at wild and extravagant clothes, but 
students generally don't have the money to 
buy, the place to wear, or (sorry to say) 
the style to carry off most of the designers 
looks. The clothes modeled at the Black 
Week fashion show were well suited to the 
students needs.
The evening as a whole was an enjoy
able experience, and the co-ordinatiors, 
Yvonne Brown and Margaret Moon, as well 
as Black Weeks Chairwoman, Cheryl 
Goodman, should be commended. The
show was not without its difficulties how
ever. Starting the show an hour late was 
the first indication that this was indeed an 
amateur production. Topping this off with 
a follow spot that didnt follow and models 
who came out after long, much too long, 
intervals made the show lose its life.
My biggest objection was with the 
amount of time it took the models to 
ready themselves. I can easily understand 
and forgive their being awkward, nervous, 
even downright scared, but to keep the 
audience waiting as long as they did only 
caused the fashion show to lose all impact, 
its posh and pizzazz. I dont think it was a 
problem with not having enough models, 
but rather an organizational one. The dress
ing rooms were just too inaccessible from 
the stage. Maybe thought should be given 
next year to putting up a stage and runway 
at the entrance end of the ballroom. There 
might also have been an inadequate num
ber of dressers helping the models to get 
ready. In any event the shows MCs did an 
excellent job of covering, especially consi
dering that they were never given a chance 
to rehearse with the models and didnt 
even know the order they were to come 
out in.
It wasnt exactly a Pure Posh evening, 
but it did show a commendable attempt by 
students. Its one tech tradition that Id 
like to see remain through the years. Lord 
knows this campus could easily use some 
enlightenment about style and fashion.
The stiff and uniform quality of the nautical look didn't command much attention.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20TARTAN-February 20, 1979
Wide variety of collectables offered to Tolkien fans
by David Phinney
Lord of the Rings, of course, is a peren
nial best-seller, especially on campus, 
where it has been among the top ten best
selling books for over four consecutive 
years. It was on or near the list for the six 
years before 1974, too. With that in mind, 
Fantasy Films isnt content to merely re
lease a full-length animated feature by 
Ralph Bakshi this year, and to promise a 
second part to the story in the future. In
stead, its giving anxious Hobbit fans who 
cant wait until Part Two is released plenty 
of ways to spend their money in the inter
im.
The films producers have planned a 
merchandising campaign, carefully-orchestrated to avoid over-kill, thats so big it 
wont even be in full swing until Christmas, 
1979. Thats more than a year after Part 
One started running in many areas last 
November 15. The movie will achieve full 
national distribution only in February. 
Thus far, it has grossed $3.6 million, 
somewhat short of the $7 million needed 
to produce the film. Another $6 million is 
being spent to promote it.
Twenty-some Lord products, meanwnile, are in the works. Cannon Towels, 
for example, is reported to be making a 
line of towels, sheets, and pillow cases em
blazoned with scenes and characters from 
the movie. A hosiery mill has bought the 
license to darn Hobbit socks. Two juvenile 
editions of Tolkiens books, complete with 
illustrations from the film, are being pub
lished by Ballantine, which is also distri
buting a Lord calendar. Yet another 
book, this one describing the elaborate 
process of making the movie, is also plan
ned.
Other manufacturers are getting dolls 
with moveable parts and coffee-table 
statues ready for market. Theyre cast of 
the principal characters. Bookstores are
now receiving shipments of derivative 
buttons and posters. Lord of the
Rings tee-shirts came to clothing stores 
this month. There are also plans for
bubble-gum cards, contingent on the films 
success.
Yet most arent waiting to see if the
movie actually draws fans. Milton Bradley 
intends to release two games, one for
Middle Earth initiates, the other for more 
sophisticated fans. For reflective fans,
therell soon be a Tolkien jigsaw puzzle.
Inevitably, theres also a fan club. Mem
bership in The Fellowship costs $15, and 
entitles members to an honorary certificate 
with the members name written on it, a
key chain, a fellowship decal and sticker, a 
couple of posters, a wall banner, and some 
other odds and ends.
There is also a soundtrack album com
posed by Leonard Rosenman. In one of the 
few setbacks the producers have suffered 
thus far, singer Andy Williams, after some 
introspection, decided not to sing one of 
the movies songs on his recent Christmas 
special on NBC.
In February, though, television viewers 
will get to see a show centered around the 
late Rings author J.R.R. Tolkien, who, in 
contrast to all the film ballyhoo, was an 
extremely shy man. Fantasy Films, of 
course, produced the show.
Pregnant? And you didn t 
mean to be^ For a free 
pregnacy test and con
fidential. understanding 
support, call Birthright.
621-1988
WEDNESDAY, FEBRU. .RY 21, 1979 
THE SPECTROSCOPY SOCIETY OF PITTSBURGH
WILL PRESENT
DR. DAVID C. JOY 
OF BELL LABS
HIS TALK WILL BE:
"ELECTRON ENERGY LOSS SPECTROSCOPY IN THE 
ELECTRON MICROSCOPY"
8:30 PM DUQUESNE UNIVERSITY 
MELLON SCIENCE BLDG., LAURA FALK LECTURE HALL
MEETING FREE TO ALL INTERESTED
CAREER SURVIVAL
Finding your way out of the jungle of companies that visit 
your campus each year for interviews is tough. Sometimes 
you havent even heard of them before they arrive. We'd like 
to help make that career decision easier by telling you about
us now.
We're Lawrence Livermore Laboratory, operated by the 
University of California for the U.S. Department of Energy, 
and located in California's beautiful Livermore Valley just 
minutes from the San Francisco Bay Area. We're involved 
in many exciting projects concerning energy, national 
defense, and bio medical research.
Let us help you choose that first job. If you have or are 
about to receive a degree in engineering or computer science, 
see us on campus at your Placement Office. Or contact us for 
more information about our many career opportunities by 
sending your resume to Employment Division, Lawrence 
Livermore Laboratory, P.O. Box 808 Dept. JCN, Livermore, 
CA 94550.
U.S. Citizenship Required. 
M/F/H/V.
An Equal Opportunity Employer
Friday, March 2
LAWRENCE LIVERMORE LABORATORY
Af Great 'X'. ..you don't get 
what you pay for
That's right. You get the haircut. 
But, we keep the hair. Unless, of 
course, you're stuffing pillows in 
your basement as a sideline. In 
which case, we'll put your shear
ings in a plain brown bag for you 
to take home.
Most guys and gals, however, are
mainly interested in the hair we 
leave uncut, because that's what 
says who they are.
At Great Ex we help get your 
head together. . .with your hair. 
No appointments needed either.
Just come in.
HAIRCUTS
(Wash-Cut Blow)
11
.00
Mon. Tues. Wed. 10-7 
Thurs. Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 9-6
mmmmmPRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
COLORING
237 ATWOOD STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 15213 
687-3500
UNISEX HAIR SALON
PERMANENTE
2500
No
Appointments
 .te this
Q1 Pi** 00+ " Exxon)
$1
weekend _T Mond y renting dditional 'm without
^"erva,ion
iSr/ach. ---biec. to ''0,la 1 w. , , H Q_ _
rP Sped*' Stamp certificates on IjOTu I
noTim r rentals In all 50 U.S. states. iaKltoday
National Car Rental

---------------------------------------------------

February 20, 19/9TARTANPage
Pittsburgh comes out of concert dry spell
by Alan Spero and Ted Smits
Some big concert happenings are sched
uled in the near future. The upcoming 
Rolling Stones Benefit concert for the 
blind in Toronto is still in need of a date 
and location but the offers to appear at the 
concert are pouring in. Eric Clapton, Peter 
Townshend, Rod Stewart, and Elton John 
are among the top rockers who have volun
teered their services for the show, but no 
one knows for sure if any have been ac
cepted.
If you cant make it to Toronto, and 
youre not doing anything March 2nd, 
3rd, or 4th, then you might want to head 
on down to the Cuban-American Jazz Fes
tival, which will be held in Havana. The 
event is being sponsored by CBS records 
and many of their top-name stars will be 
appearing there, including: Maynard Fer
guson, Billy Joel, Kris Kristofferson, Rita 
Coolidge, Freddie Hubbard, Stephen Stills, 
Weather Report, and the CBS Jazz AllStars. The festival will receive network 
coverage and will also be recorded and later 
released as a three-record set.
Concert-wise, Pittsburgh will be climb
ing out of its recent dry spell in the next 
two months with a series of concerts pro
moted by Danny Kreske Enterprises. The 
Decade, a nightclub on the corner of At
wood and Forbes in Oakland, will be fea
turing a line-up of up and coming young 
bands. Leading off on February 22nd will 
be Epic recording artists, Trillion. The 
show will start at nine oclock. Other 
shows to follow at The Decade will be: the 
Ramones on March 6th and 7th, the Fab
ulous Poodles on March 11th, and Police 
on March 20th. Check this column in the 
future for interviews and reviews of the 
above mentioned bands.
There have been a few additions to the 
previously mentioned concerts at the Stan
ley. The Fabulous Poodles will make their 
Pittsburgh debut (before their Decade 
show) on the 16th and 17th of this month 
with Sha Na Na. Sad Cafe will open for 
Santana on March 2nd with a second show 
added at 11:30 that night. Nazareth will 
be rocking loud n proud at the Stanley 
on March 17th, coinciding with the release 
of their latest album,No Mean City. Open
ing the show will be the Irish power-rockers, Thin Lizzy. The evening promises to 
be an eardrum-popping experience.
The English pop-rock band, The Babys, 
have started touring again with none other 
than Alice(From The Inside)Cooper. The 
nearest show in-the proposed schedule will 
be at the Cleveland Coliseum in Richfield, 
Ohio on the 21st of this month.
Some of the songs of the Cars debut 
album, The Cars, will be included on the 
soundtrack of an upcoming Orion Films/ 
Warner Brothers Film On The Edge. The 
movie is scheduled to be released this sum
mer.
Possibly one of the most lucrative deals 
in the history of recorded music was annouced at a Columbia sales promotion 
meeting in Dallas on the 1st and 2nd of 
this month. Paul McCartney, the new 
Reggie Jackson of the record world, and 
Wings have signed to Columbia records for 
an unreported sum that is supposed to be 
the most ever payed to a recording star.
More new albums are on the way. Ian 
Hunter, who hasnt put out an album in
2 years, will be releasing his new one, ten
tatively entitled The Outsider, in the near
future. Featured on the album will be oldtime friend and collaborator Mick Ronson 
on guitar, Roy Bitton on piano, Gary Tal
lent on bass, and Max Weinberg on drums. 
The latter three are all members of Bruce 
Springsteens East Street Band.
That English heavy-metal ensemble, The 
London Symphony Orchestra, (yes, the 
real London Symphony Orchestra), has 
released an album entitled Classic Rock: 
Volume One, which includes such rock and 
roll classics as: Lucy In The Sky With Dia
monds, Paint It Black, Without You, 
Bohemian Rhapsody, Nights In White Sat
in, and (I cant wait to hear this one) 
Whole Lotta Love.
Generation X has their second album, 
Valley Of The Dolls, scheduled to be re
leased very soon. The album already has 
a hit single in the U.K., King Rocker.
Good news for fans of the Beatles or 
anyone else who likes music. George Har
risons new album is scheduled to be in the 
record stores in about 2 weeks. George is 
also currently financing a new Monty 
Python movie.
Bishop has total control of 'Hog Heaven'
by Ted Smits
Elvin Bishop has repeatedly expressed 
the view that nothing would make him 
happier than a farm of his own, where 
he would be left alone to raise a load of 
hogs and chickens. Supposedly the only 
reason he continues to release new albums 
is so he can make enough money to buy 
that farm. Elvin Bishops new album, 
Hog Heaven, will probably not bring him 
enough commercial success to turn his 
dream into a reality. The album will be 
a pleasant surprise not only for old Elvin
Bishop fans but also for anyone who 
likes to hear good country blues guitar 
work. Hog Heaven is one of Bishops 
best albums, rivalled only by Let It Flow 
and Juke Joint Jump.
Elvin Bishop first gained fame as the 
lead guitarist of the Butterfield Blues 
Band. After Mike Bloomfield took over 
the lead guitar spot, Bishop left the group 
to form the first of his many bands. 
Bishop combined country western in
fluences with his southern blues style to 
form a sound that is distinctly his own. 
His first major album was released on
Elvin Bishop proves to be just a down-on-the-farm kind of guy.
STUDY ABROAD WITH SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY
SEMESTER PROGRAMS:  FLORENCE
 MADRID  STRASBOURG AMSTERDAM
 LONDON  MEXICO
 Variety of courses offered  No language background required Financial Aid available  Summer program available in England, Italy, the Netherlands, Greece. Austria, East Africa, Yugoslavia  Applications for Fall 1979 semester are due by 
March 1st.
Capricorn Records. Let It Flow (still 
regarded as his best album) defined his 
rough and rowdy, good time music style. 
Songs like Traveling Shoes and 
Stealing Watermelons helped Bishop gain a 
large audience that not only respected his 
skill as a guitarist but also enjoyed the 
sound and the mood of his music.
Bishops next album, Juke Joint Jump 
satisfied his fans and established him as 
one of the premier southern rock artists. 
His bands went through a number of per
sonnel changes and the next three 
albums were never able to recapture the 
quality of the first two. In 1976 Strutting 
My Stuff was released. Even though it was 
probably Elvin Bishops worst album, it 
contained the gold single Fooled Around 
and Fell In Love. This single gave Bishop 
his first real commercial success and also 
gave many people a false impression of 
his mucical abilities. On Hog Heaven 
there are no songs as bad as Fooled Around 
and Fell In Love. The lead vocal on that 
single was not Bishop, it was his rhythm 
guitarist Mickey Thomas, who left the 
group after the song became popular.
The most important aspect of Hog 
Heaven is that it was written and produced 
completely by Elvin Bishop. The album 
reflects not only his musical ability but his 
conception of how his ability can be 
used. This album contains three basic types 
of songs. The first type is the bad songs.
NAME.
ADDRESS.
CITY.STATE..ZIP.
PROGRAM OF INTEREST______________________________________________________________________
For more information and application return to 
Division of International Programs Abroad 335 Comstock Avenue, Room N. Syracuse. New York 13210
Lets Break Down and Waterfall are dull, 
overproduced songs that feel out of place 
with the finer songs on this release.
Another type of song is shown by Its 
a Feeling and True Love. These two songs 
feature Maria Muldar on lead and back
ground vocals..These songs are not that bad 
but they are aimed at the commercial 
market and the music in these songs is 
much more pop-oriented than the rest of 
the album. Maria Muldars vocal style 
works very well with Bishops musical 
talents but the songs still seem to lack the 
energy and down home style which \s 
evident in songs like Arkansas and Oh 
Babe. Oh Babe is the most lively and 
entertaining of the cuts on the album. 
Arkansas is another one of Elvin Bishops 
musical tributes to the southern roots of 
his music.
The most interesting song on Hog 
Heaven is Southern Dreams. A slow, 
haunting song, Southern Dreams relates a 
typical nightmare of Elvin Bishops and 
many other southern people. The song 
relies on the old premise that says some
thing is out there in the woods and it may 
just come after you one night. The bizarre 
lyrics and slow music (aided by an excel
lent guitar lead) combine to create an all 
too realistic picture of fright which is only 
relieved by the comic parts of the song.
Its a full moon at midnight,
A steam is rising off the fields.
All up and down my back 
There aint nothing but cold chills 
Temperatures rising.
Feel like Im gonna scream.
Im lost, lost, and gone 
In my Southern dream.
Elvin Bishop was able to obtain the 
services of many talented musicians for this 
album. Commenting on the musicians, 
Bishop stated that, I know what I wanted 
and the key to my approach was to sur
round myself wi?th people who kneto 
exactly what they are doing. Among the 
notable musicians on the album are drum
mer Scott Matthews and keyboardist 
Melvin Seals. Guitarist Amos Garrett and 
bassist Maurice Cridlin also providers 
good backup for Bishops guitar work. 
For anyone who likes good southern 
blues guitar and doesnt like Fooled 
around and fell in Love I would recom
mend this album.

---------------------------------------------------

Contrasting operas represent music's evolution
A double bill featuring Pergolesis La 
Serva Padrona and the second perform
ance in the U.S. of Vivian Fines The Wo
men In the Garden will be the next CMU 
Opera Theater production, February 22- 
25.
Guest stage director for the productions 
will be David Gorin, assistant general dir
ector of the Lyric Opera of Kansas City. 
The four performances, in English, will be 
held at 8 PM in Alumni Concert Hall on 
the CMU campus. The operas will feature a 
chamber orchestra and will be conducted 
by associate professor Istvan Jaray and 
graduate students Norman Brown and 
James Wegg.
The dramatic and musical contrast be
tween the two operas represents the evolu
tion in the history of music theater. says 
Gorin, who formerly served as Sarah Cald
wells assistant in the Opera Company of 
Boston.
Vivian Fines opera portrays an imagin
ary meeting of four prominent women art
istswriters Emily Dickinson, Gertrude 
Stein, and Virginia Woolf and dancer Isa
dora Duncan. Using excerpts from each 
womans writings, Fine evokes a surrealis
tic, stream-of-consciousness atmosphere in 
which the four women question prevailing 
morality and compare their memories and 
their hopes for the future. In Pergolesis 
1733 comic intermezzo, the saucy servant 
Serpina advances in the social hierarchy by 
devising a scheme which makes her master 
aware of his volatile temper and, in the 
process, convinces him that he should 
marry her.
Composer Vivian Fine, a member of the 
faculty of Bennington College in Vermont, 
has studied with Ruth Crawford and Roger 
Sessions. She has worked extensively with 
modern dance companies, composing mus
ic for choreographers Martha Graham, 
Doris Humphrey, Charles Weidman. Jose 
Limon and Hanya Holm. In addition to the 
National Endowment for the Arts grant she 
received for the composition of THE 
WOMEN IN THE GARDEN, Fine has 
received grants from the Ford Foihidation, 
the Rockefeller Foundation and the Dollard Fund and commissions from the B. De 
Rothschild Foundation, the Wooley Fund, 
Connecticut College of Dance, Chamber 
Music Conference of the East and Cooper 
Union. She taught previously at New York
GIRLS___ARE YOU LOOKING FOR A SUM
MER COUNSELOR POSITION? Applicants 
are now being considered for the 1979 comp 
season Must be able to teach one of the 
following: Arts & Crafts. Arts 8 Crafts Direc
tor, Doncing, Piano Accompanist and singing, 
Archery, Tennis, Trampoline, Gymnastics, 
Photography, Cheerleading, Riflery (N.R.A.), 
Scouting and Nature Study, A.R.C. Swimming 
Instructor, Boating, Canoeing and Water 
Skiing Instructor or General Athletics. 
Secretary also needed.
COUNSELOR UNIT LEADERS, must be college 
graduate experienced in camping. Able to 
plan schedule for activities, evening 
programs, etc. Supervise large staff. Write 
Camp Office, 138 Woodland Drive, Pittsburgh, 
Pa. 15228 or phone. 412-563-2772.
Reach for the stars 
Be Entertainment Ed. 
of the TARTAN
' X2111 or 683-8825 :
Icelandic!*Big Bargain to Europe 
Just Got Bigger.
Introducing Wide-Body DC-10 Service 
to the Heart of Europe.*299 Roundtrip.
And our great 
bargain price is still 
the same as before. 
Just $299 roundtrip 
from New York to Lux
embourg, $149.50 one 
way. Price includes an 
excellent dinner, free wine 
and cognac. No restrictions. 
Tickets can be purchased 
anywhere in the U.S.A. and 
are good for a 
full year. DC-10 
flights leave and 
return five times 
weekly..
There has 
been one other 
change at Icelandic. We have a 
brand new symbol and have added 
Icelandair to our name.
For more information set* your travel agent. Or write Dept. 
#C-396kelandR' Airlines, P.O. Box 105. West Hempstead, NY 
11552. Or call toll free. In New York City. 757-8585; in New 
York State. (800) 442-5910; elsewhere. (800) 223-5080.
NAME______________________________________________
ADDRESS 
CITY____STATE
ICELANDAIR
University, Julliard School of Music, State 
University at Potsdam (N.Y.) and Connecti
cut College School of Dance.
Gorin joined the Lyric Opera of Kansas 
City in 1977. His responsibilities there in
clude company management and produc
tion coordination for five operas in a fiveweek repertory season and managing the 
companys touring program throughout the 
central midwest. During his five year asso
ciation with the Opera Company of Boston 
under the direction of Sarah Caldwell, 
Gorin held the positions of assistant stage 
director, company manager and assistant 
artistic director. He was involved in over 
thirty productions with Miss Caldwell in 
Boston, New York, Houston, Dallas, and 
Wolf Trap. He was also involveu in the 
founding of Opera New England and made 
his conducting debut in that companys 
production of Rigoletto in 1977. His 
directing credits include preparing the Bos
ton production of Barber of Seville for the 
New York City Opera as well as serving as 
directing assistant for the WNET telecast 
of that opera. A graduate of Temple Univ
ersity, he was the recipient in 1973 of a 
National Opera Institute grant to study at
the Komishe Opera in East Berlin with 
Walter Felsenstein on the production of 
Hary Janos.
Students appearing in The Women In 
the Garden are: mezzo-soprano Myrna Pari: 
as Emily Dickenson; mezzo-soprano Kath
leen Kelleher as Gertrude Stein; and Pattrick Gibson as the tenor. The cast for 
La Serva Padrona is soprano Roberta Cun
ningham as Serpina, bass Steven Brock and 
William Brown double cast as her master, 
Uberto. and Timothy Dahlem as the ser
vant. Musical preparation was provided by 
visiting instructor Bonnie Fix Keller.
The final production of the CMU Opera 
Theater this season will be the Beggar's 
Opera, (April 5-8) with former drama de
partment head Lawrence Carra serving as 
guest director.
Tickets to The Women In the Garden 
and La Serva Padrona are priced at $5.00 
for adults and $2.00 for students. For 
reser\>ations or information about half
season subscriptions, call the CMU Box 
Office, 578-2407. Box Office hours are 10 
AM to 5 PM, Monday through Friday.
Disco goes Tech style
by Beverly
If you are one of those people who still 
have trouble allowing D-I-S-C-0 to flow 
freely from your little lips, I am ready to 
let you in on a not so secret, secret. Disco 
music is no longer a minority, its a major
ity. Its solid enough to be around for a 
long time.
With this column, Id like to take you 
on a tour of the disco world through inter
views, trying to give you hints on some of 
Pittsburghs better dance clubs, album re
views or, as is the case with discos 12 
records, dynamite song reviews, and much 
more. Just who said you have to be wear
ing Guccis instead of Pumas, Calvin 
Kleins instead of faded Levis, if all you 
want to do is dance across the floor? I 
hope these articles can fill you in on what
youre missing in entertainment.
Radio stations everywhere are playing 
the accentuayed bass lines of Rod Stewart, 
the Stones, and Chic just as much as the 
local discoteques are. The colered lights 
and showy tinsel of disc jockeys with 
portable systems can convert any gymnasi
um, firehall, or basement into a dance floor 
within minutes. Fasion designers and 
barbers are benefiting from disco crazes. 
Dance studios are booming, even mini
course disco dance lessons are filled and 
closed in one morning at CMU.
If youd like to offer suggestions to me 
about DISCO-TECH, drop them off in the 
TARTAN mailbox at the Information 
Desk. Coming up, Ill take a look at some 
of the hottest disco groups. Lets start 
dancing.
B'NAI B'RITH HILLEL-JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER 
ISRAELI COFFEEHOUSE
will rock you from your winter blahs!
Saturday February 24 9 p.m.
Pitt Schenley Student Union, Lower Lounge 
Soothing atmosphere Live entertainment Refreshments
SPONSORED BY B'NAI B'RITH HILLEL AND MASADA 
DONATIONS TO CAMPUS CAMPAIGN FOR ISRAEL & WORLD JEWRY
315 S. BELLEFIELD AVENUE (ACROSS FROM HEINZ CHAPEL)
621-8875
U. S. NAVY
COLLEGE JUNIORS AND 
GRADUATING SENIORS
Expand Your Job Horizons
Positions in Engineering 
and Nuclear Engineering 
Business Management 
Intelligence and Aviation
<20 20 vision not required for Flight Officer)
Initial salaries ranging from $12,000 to $16.000 
$19,000 to $26,000 after 4 years 
Full medical and dental coverage 
30 days paid vacation each year 
and more
Interested individuals should sign up for interviews 
in the Placement Office now Transcripts are requested 
or call 644-5880
INTERVIEWS FEB. 22 and 23

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
Joe Betechak drives in for two.
ooooooooooooooooooooooo
There will be an important IM Board 
meeting on Thursday, February 22, in 
room 104 Gym, at 12 :30 PM. Please come 
and represent your Intramural team at this 
very important meeting.
Sports coming up include call pool,' corec badminton, co-rec table tennis, basket
ball foul shooting and street hockey. All 
entries are due Thursday Feb. 22 m the IM 
office.
Tartan Hoopsters "FIip"over Allegheny
Swimmers use "towels" to drown W&J
by Patti Miller
Coach Donna Pecman knew that it 
would take something extra for the CMU 
swim team to beat Washington and Jeffer
son on Saturday. At the beginning of the 
week, she announced a Tartan Towel 
Contest. The best towel would win a 
pizza dinner. As the towels were draped 
around the pool, the Tartan swimmers got 
psyched. The medley relay team of Joe 
Dickey, Harry Coleman, Jim Matysek, and 
Todd Reinke remained undefeated this 
season. The second team of Mike Harley. 
Brian Hobbs, Bill Cannilang, and Patti 
Miller finished third. Jim Matysek re
turned to the block and easily won the 
1000 yard freestyle and Doug McPherson 
took a fourth place.
The Tartans won another race-as Nickolaus Watts battled to the finish of the 200 
yard freestyle. Tom Oerlowski and Jeff 
Bland were barely beaten by the W & J 
swimmers. Tom Barr took advantage of his 
quick start to gain another victory for the 
Tartans. Todd Reinke and Marueen Fernandy placed third and fifth, respectively.
Joe Dickey continued the Tartans 
winning streak with a victory in the 200 
IM. Wilson Boyse swam his best time to 
finish third in the 200 IM; Patti Miller 
finished fifth. In the required diving, Tony 
Carrington, Bob Frye, and Debbie Cohen 
placed third, fourth, and fifth.
Harrry Coleman remained undefeated in 
the 200 yard butterfly. Doug McPherson 
and Bill Cannilang dropped their times 10 
seconds with Doug placing third. For the
by David Brandwene
Guard Marianno Defilippo and Forward 
Larry Hufnagel each fired in a game high
24 points to lead CMU to an intense 
9286 victory over Allegheny before a 
capacity crowd at the Tartans gymnasium 
on Saturday. This win combined with 
CMUs thrashing of Thiel last Wednesday 
night keeps the Tartans hopes alive to win 
the P.A.C. title. They are presently in 
second place with a (93). record in the 
conference while Allegheny holds the top 
spot with a (102) slate and only two 
games remaining for each team.
The fast paced game was a see-saw 
battle throughout the early stages of the 
first half with the biggest lead being only
3 points. However, with 4 minutes remain
ing in the half and Allegheny ahead, (34 
33), the Tartans erupted for eleven un
answered points during the next three 
minutes giving them a 4134 advantage 
and eventually a (4838) half time lead. 
In the first 20 minutes of the game, CMU 
shot a torrid 67% from the field, led by 
Buddy Hobarts 13 points and Defilippos 
12 points.
Allegheny cut the Tartans lead to (48 
44) as they exploded for 3 straight goals in 
the first two minutes of the second half. 
Carnegie-Mellon ended the quick surge on 
Hobarts bucket and then put together a 
scoring spurt of their own which gave 
them a 7460 advantage with only nine 
minutes left on the clock. The lead held 
up for the following three minutes but 
then the Gators took advantage of several 
CMU turnovers to cut the deficit to 8681 
with 2 minutes remaining in the game. 
However Defilippo, Joe Belechak and 
Mike Underhill all hit key free throws to 
preserve the well earned vicotry for the 
Tartans.
Along with his game high scoring barrage, 
Mariano Defilippo unleashed an air tight 
defensive showing, holding Alleghenys top 
scorer, Jim Wheeler, to 10 pts. Wheeler has 
been averaging 22 ppg. throughout the
first time this season the Tartans took first 
and second in the 100 yard freestyle. Tom 
Barr, who had his best day of the year won 
again as he out-touched Nick Watts. Janet 
Axtell accomplished her best time this 
year.
The Tartans had their biggest lead, 
44-26, and in the following events, W&J 
attempted a comeback which climaxed in 
the 400 yard free relay. Joe Dickey 
finished second in the 200 yard back
stroke. Dave Watterson and Mike Harley 
took fourth and fifth.
In the 500 yard freestyle, Wilson Boyse, 
Tom Oerlowski, and Doug McPherson 
placed third, fourth, and fifth. CMU need
ed another victory before diving, and Jim 
Matysek pulled it out with his best time in 
the 200 breaststroke. Brian Hobbs and 
Jamie Uber took fourth and sixth. Bob 
Frye took a second in the optional div
ing, Tony Carrington and Debbie Cohen 
placed fourth and fifth.
The score was 56-50, Carnegie-Mellon 
still held the lead, but the last relay was 
worth 7 points and the winner of the re
lay was to be the winner of the meet. Don
na knew that the meet would be close and 
stacked the relay with her best sprinters. 
Tom Barr started off since he had the 
quickest start. He gave a small lead to Nick 
Watts, who gained a body length on the 
W&J swimmer. Athletic Director, Jim 
Banner jumped up from the bench to get 
a better view of the most exciting race of 
the year. Todd Reinke entered the water 
and kept the lead. The meet was in the
hands of Senior, Harry Coleman, and at the 
end of the race no one knew who had won 
as both teams jumped for their victory. 
CMUs second relay of Jeff Bland, Jamie
Uber, Janet Axtell, and Maureen Femandy 
hadnt finished and the place judge waited 
until the event was completed. As she an
nounced that the Tartans had won, Donna 
said, someone was with us today. The 
final score was CMU:63, W & J: 50. The 
Tartans host the Allegheny Gators Satur
day, February 24 at 2 PM in their last 
home meet.
oooooooooooooooooooooo
I.M. News
Intramurals this week include: water 
polo: SAE defeated Heavy Water 8-6 to 
win the 1978-1979 CMU IM water polo 
championship on Sunday, February 11. 
Basketball: all teams please note the win
ner of a game on the score sheet; and 
officials: please officiate all assigned games. 
Bridge: commissioner is William Hunter. 
Handball: standings are posted on the IM 
bulletin board. Wrestling: commisioner is 
Marc Poland, KS: practice sessions are be
ing held March 3. Table tennis: for singles 
and doubles, commisioner is Jeff McCart
ney, DU. Schedules are out, so pleas play 
your game on time. Street hockey: anyone 
interested should contact Mr. Birdy in 
Room 104 in the gym or Randy Lipscher, 
ext. 4239.
Amidst a crowd, Larry Hufnagel goes up for a successful, jumper.
season. The Tartans played the kind of 
basketball that has been characteristic of 
CMU teams over the past few years. Along 
with Defilippos banner performance came 
the high percentage shooting of Larry 
Hufnagel (24 pts. 11 of 12 from the field), 
and the aggressive rebounding of Dave 
Hofmeister, who shut down Alleghenys 
big man, Lindberg, for most of the contest.
Again, Buddy Hobart was a tremendous 
asset to the Tartans with his inspired play 
and controlled acrobatics on he court. 
Also, a great deal of praise mUst go to the 
head coach Dave Maloney, whos game 
plan kept the Tartans in control of things 
throughout the game; something which was 
lacking in their first meeting with the 
gators.
Last Wednesday night, Larry Hufnagel 
poured in 35 points, pulled down 18 re
bounds and blocked 3 shots as CMU 
romped over Thiel 84-51. The Tartans 
o exploded to a 3721 half time lead and 
o were never challenged the rest of the way 
8 The Tomcats had 11 shots blocked during 
^ the game with Center Mike Underhill >e 
3 jecting 4 of them. Joe Belechak was the 
% only other Tartan to finish in doubleO3 figures as he accounted for 12 points. 
In their last two games of the season 
the Tartans charge for victory in the P.A.C. 
when they meet Bethany on February 21 
at 8:00 PM and Washington and Jefferson 
on the 24th at 2:00 PM.
x>ooooooooooooooooooooo<
Conference Notes:...The Tartans are 
now one game back of Allegheny in the 
race for the PACchampionship. They have 
to win their last two games (Bethany-away, 
W&J-home) and hope that either John 
Carrol or Bethany upset the gators...Many 
thanks to the fans who showed up last 
Saturday. They were definately a factor in 
CMUs win over Allegheny...Larry Hufnag
el regained his scoring lead in the PAC with 
35 and 24 pt. tallies in the last two games. 
Alleghenys Jim Wheeler dropped to 
second place.

---------------------------------------------------

I .Hi M iti *4 I *.** k ** M**l Utfliiui t IliUfl # ****** * * r - * I
INTERVIEW
with/ . --7  '
GENERAL INSTRUMENT CORPORATION
The Data Systems and Services Group of 
General Instrument Corporation will be 
conducting interviews in Pittsburgh at the 
Hyatt House - ChathamCenter on Monday, 
February 26 and Tuesday, February 27.
The Data Systems and Services Group 
specializes in wagering, point-of-sale and 
retail systems. Recent growth has created 
a number of positions in systems and ap
plications programming using mini and 
microcomputers within a network en
vironment.
To arrange an interview, please call 
Deborah Lindsey COLLECT at (301) 666- 
8700 between 9 AM - 5 PM.
GENERAL INSTRUMENT CORPORATION
DATA SYSTEMS AND SERVICES GROUP
11126 McCORMICK ROAD, HUNT VALLEY. MARYLAND 21031
College Ring Sale!64*Vf Ji SAVE $20*
m-97
-
FREE OPTIONS FOR MEN S RtNGSFREE OPTIONS FOR WOMEN S RINGS
J/t.V
Encrusting Fifktoorkt Ouwncrvd Ptn# fcm Cut Entravi*jktin FkCMCut Gnuir>* Slorv* Enjf
7IRT(71RVED^COLLEGE RINGS
Say a lot about yourself without saying a word.
Save up to $20 or more on men S You 9et Vur chOK:e of the fre options shown above and save money.... i r-i im -i Take advantage of this great sale on highest quality college rings Seetraditional Slladium rinQSanu them now Order yoursjoday.selected women's 10K gold rings. anDckGr gnylGgna bkf bvclr ebkrng hubg,n cg tGkb
SEE THE ARTCARVED REPRESENTATIVE
abrn Feb. 21,22, 23 D'bhn Bookstore, Baker Hall
savings vary slightly from style to style.
 emu bookstore 
Your talent deserves 
exciting company.
Let HARRIS
reserve a career 
challenge for you
NOW!
ENGINEERING RESEARCH IN ELECTRONICS
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS 
FEBRUARY 21,1979
HARRISinCOMMUNICATIONS AND 
INFORMATION HANDLING
Systems Group Operations An Equal Opportunity Employer  Male/Female
Melbourne, Florida
_
' Wmm  ir. -

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTS^.CLASSIFIED ADS --------
Classified Announcements:
Deadline, Wednesday, noon. Rate  $.10 
word. Address all classifieds to TARTAN 
Business Manager.
Cuteness
bliss.
classified
GUITAR STRINGS SETS FOR SALE!
Good prices. Call Igor ext. 4058.
Earn $1 for 15 minutes of your time;
be a subject in psychology experiment on 
eyewitness identification. Sign up outside 
BH 336F, Wednesday through Friday, 
Feb. 21-23.
Students  win up to $20.00 in approx
imately 30 minutes playing SUPA's Bar
gaining Experiment. For more information 
see secretary in 203 Margaret Morrison or 
call Pam, ex. 4384.
Wanted  saw, musical, one each, with
operator. For an educational film. Serious
ly. Call Gregg Podnar at 661-6138.
To Aim
Keep knocking on wood
Love VFW
It's been nothing but sheer
Love always, 
Ed and Fred
Help Wanted. The Computation Center has
a part-time position available for a clerical 
assistant. For more information, contact 
Jill Diskin at x2639.
Help Wanted  Male or female graduate
student to give personal care: feeding, 
bathing, toileting, dressing, some tutoring 
to intelligent cerebral palsied male student 
age 15 weighing 55 lbs. Hours negotiable 
but will include 30 hours per week. Some 
early morning, late afternoon, evening, 
weekend, and vacation time in exchange 
for spacious, convenient rooms, board 
and salary. Call 361-6582 between 3:00 
and 6:00 PM.
Disco-Ballroom-Latin Dance Classes -
(less than $1/hour). Includes: showsdinner  "Holiday House". Call 241-2162.
Typing servicefast, accurate and depend
able $1.00/page 687-4678 
Carolyn, Cherie, Karen Ann, Mary:
Anytime, Anywhere, I'll always like to 
touch you there. Happy Valentine's Day 
from your Uncle.
Female Disc Jockey with quality sound and
light system. Make your next private party 
or frat party something to remember. Call 
"Beverly" 361-3176 evenings.
Roommate needed, Oakland apt. $55/
month. For information, call 683-7012. 
Knowledge furnishes the rooms.
Gale
It's you and me 
Let's make it last 
Happy Valentines Day 
Steve says Hello Leslie
You know something?
Roses are red.
So don't be blue.
San Francisco's great 
But Pittsburgh will do.
Joey
You know who
clubs
THE 1978 THISTLE IS JN !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
If you have paid your deposit in full, you 
may pick up your copy at the Skibo Infor
mation Desk beginning today. If you have 
an outstanding balance, please come to the 
THISTLE office during office hours: to
morrow 10:30-12:30, Friday 3-6.
DO NOT wait until you fall behind in your
work. FREE TUTORING is available in 
most CIT, MIS, and AMS courses, as well 
as some H&SS courses. Stop in the Peer 
Help Center, Baker Hall 150-A to sign up 
for a tutor.
ATTENTION DORM RESIDENTS: The
SDC Booth Committee is looking for in
terested members. If you'd like to be a part 
of this years Booth Committee contact 
Carolyn Welty x4437 or Mindie Jo Snyder 
x4039.
DESIGN the 1979 t-shirt for CIA and you
could win $5.00 and a FREE t-shirt. Sub
mit all designs to the CIA mailbox*(behind 
Skibo Info Desk) by February 20. Any 
questions call Steve x3998. Everyone is 
welcome to enter!
WANTED. Copy writers for the THISTLE.
Interesting and varied assignments. If inter
ested contact Pete -- 687-2121 or Saul -- 
683-9773, or call the THISTLE office 
578-2121.
Get involved with Spring Carnival and
send us a slogan! The Spring Carnival 
Committee is looking for something short 
and original to capture the spirit of '79's 
Carnival. The theme is "Countries"-the 
slogan doesn't need the word, just the idea. 
Entries will be judged by the Executive 
Committee, and a prize will be given to 
the winning entrant. Deadline date is 
Saturday,February 24, so send your 
slogan NOW!!!
SEND TO: Spring Carnival Contest 
Student Activities Desk, Skibo 
Campus Mail
Congratulate your favorite graduate. Buy a
patron ad in the THISTLE. $3.50 for 5 
words, $6.00 for 10 words. Leave message, 
name, campus address & payment at 
Thistle mailbox, Skibo information desk. 
Thanks Saul.
SDC presents the Gong Show under the Big
Top at Spring Carnival. Why not do your 
thing (or someone else's)?! Contact Mindie 
Jo Snyder, Box 52V Donner or the SDC 
box in Skibo. Prizes will be awarded for 
the first, second and third places!
There will be an AB Concerts Meeting
Tuesday. February 20, 7:00 PM in the AB 
office (above Skibo main desk) to discuss 
the Carnival Show. All interested people 
are welcome*.
There will be a meeting of the Cultural
Planning Committee Wednesday, February 
21 at 7:30 PM in Room II Skibo. Anyone 
interested, please come and bring ideas.
ATTENTION all CIA members. There will
be an important meeting on Tuesday, Feb
ruary 20 at 7:00 PM in the Morewood Rec. 
Room. T-shirt designs, freeroll, and push 
practices will be discussed. This is essential 
for all members and new members are also 
welcome.
ISRAELI COFFEEHOUSE will rock you
from your winter blahs. Sponsored by 
B'nai B'rith Hillel and Masada on Saturday, 
February 24 at 9 PM in Pitt Schenley Stu
dent Union, Lower Lounge. Soothing 
atmosphere, live entertainment, refresh
ments.
SENIORS!!!!! LAST CHANCE TO HAVE
YOUR PORTRAIT TAKEN OR RE
TAKEN!!!!!! Senior portraits and retakes 
all this week. Signups at Skibo Information 
Desk. First takes- $2.50, retakes -- $3.00, 
payable at sitting.
CMU AIESEC meets every Wednesday
at 4:30 PM in Skibo 11. The campus com
munity is welcome.
The Finance
Senate meets 
Room 13 at 7 
to the public.
Committee of Student
Thursdays in Skibo, 
PM. Meetings are open
Scoth 'n' Soda will be holding crew call on
Sunday, March 4, 1979 in Rm. 12, Skibo. 
All forms of backstage help are needed. To 
be called will be set construction, lighting, 
costumes, properties, make-up, publicity, 
and running crews. (Running crew is the 
crew responsible for moving sets during the 
performance.) There is a significant 
amount of overlap in the jobs done by 
these crews. Anyone interested in working 
backstage should attend this meeting.
Well .... the big day is almost here. The
Freshman Weekend Reunion will be on 
Friday evening, March 2, at 8 PM in the 
Skibo Ballroom. Admission is $.50 for all 
alumni wearing t shirts, and $.75 for all 
others. Anyone, yes anyone, who has 
ever been a staffer, counselor or camper at 
any Freshman Weekend is invited! And 
you may bring as many friends as you'd 
like. Slides will be shown ... there will be 
dancing and eating and laughing. It's going 
to be a great Reunion. Ok, Freshman (no 
matter what year you are now) let's all 
line up for Volleyball.
Attention all designers, artists, etc...
University Graphics will soon be in need 
of people to fill the positions of: 1) Re
sume Director and 2) Head Art Director. 
Please contact Bruce or Ricki or leave a 
note at University Graphics.
The TARTAN is looking for a new busi
ness manager. This is a great opportunity 
for anyone in any major to acquire prac
tical, marketable business skills and get in
volved in one of the most active campus 
organizations. Any interested people 
should contact Stephanie at X-2111 or 
2112, or 683-9807.
general
There will be an important Entertain
ment Staff meeting at 5:00 PM on Wednes
day, February 21, in the TARTAN office. 
Skibo. Current writers as well as any new 
interested contributors are urged to attend.
The Pittsburgh Scottish Country Dance
Society will hold its regular class on Friday 
February 23 at 8 p.m. at the First 
Presbyterian Church in Wilkinsburg. The 
group meets on the first and third Satur
days of the month at 7:30 p.m., and on the 
second and fourth (and fifth, if there is 
one) Fridays at 8 p.m. Newcomers are 
very welcome to attend. For more infor
mation, and possible help with transport
ation, call Robin Drake at 421-7179.
The Duquesne University Learning Skills;
Program will hold a relaxation seminar 
on Saturday, Feb. 24 from noon to 5 PM 
in the Duquesne University Union Ball
room. The seminar is open to the general 
public but is specifically geared to stu
dents. The purpose of the program is to 
help students prepare for the anxiety 
associated with mid-term examinations and 
to prepare other individuals to cope with 
stressful situations. The charge for the 
seminar will^be determined according to a 
sliding scale and the fee will be waived for 
individuals requiring financial aid. For 
more information contact Kipling Forbes, 
counseling research associate, at 461-6661.
-y JL V - 'i&PiW IraniGves
....
iv " --y-:-'-
% -.un: "See.' YoJft. Slogan on___ICarmSu- T-sn/rte.
CnrnruT Vrma Is 'VC nclude. idea \n-ifae. slogar.
Servi -Vo tfvrttes I

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTSS. CLASSIFIED ADS ------
The Fellowship of St. Don Bosco will meet
Wednesday, February 21, 10:00 PM in 
Tech House. The subject for meditation 
prayer will be "A Description of True 
Devotion" and the subject for study will be 
"The Relationship Between Scripture, 
Sacred Tradition and the Teaching Author
ity of the Church." All are invited to come 
and enjoy the fruits and graces of our 
meeting.
Gordon C. Zahn will open the Thomas
Merton Center's 1979 Lenten Series with 
a talk, Thomas Merton on Peace. He will 
speak at 8 00 PM on February 28 at 
Kresge Theatre, Carlow College. A prayer 
service planned by Carlow College Campus 
Ministry will precede the talk at 7:30 PM.
Vincent Bugliosi, chief prosecutor in the
Charles Manson murder case and co-author 
of the best-seller, "Helter Skelter," will 
present a public lecture at Duquesne Uni
versity March 1 at 8 PM in the Duquesne 
Union Ballroom. The lecture will discuss 
the Manson murder trial and the Manson 
mentality. Bugliosi will also explain his 
current efforts to reopen the files on 
Robert Kennedy's assassination based on 
evidence which, he feels, points to a 
frame-up of Sirhan Sirhan and the exis
tence of a second assassin. Advanced 
tickets for the lecture are available at a 
cost of $1 with university I.D., $2 with
out I D. Tickets may also be purchased 
at the door for an additional 50 cents. 
To obtain tickets, contact the Duquesne 
Union Staff Office at 434-6638.
There will be light supper and a Bible
Study from 5:30 PM to 7 PM every other 
Sunday at the Rectory, The Church of the 
Redeemer. For more information, call:
Charlene Robertson 823-5517, Church 
Office 422-7100.
President Richard M. Cyert will have
open office hours for students during Feb
ruary, March,and April.
The dates for these meetings are Wed
nesday, February 28, Wednesday, March
14, and Friday, April 13. The time will be 
between 3 and 5 PM in the president's 
office. Students who wish to meet in
dividually with the president should tele
phone his office, 578-2000, for an appoint
ment between 3 and 4 PM. The hour be
tween 4 and 5 PM will be open for students 
who want to meet with the president but 
do not have an appointment.
It is hoped that this program will be a 
benefit to both the president and the stu
dents in allowing students direct contact 
with him.
John Crecine, Dean of H&SS holds open
office hours Tuesday, 1:30 to 3:30 PM. .
The Pittsburgh Spirit indoor soccer team is
is hosting a College Day on Saturday, 
February 24, at 2 PM at the Civic Arena. 
All college students in the Pittsburgh area 
can pick up special discount coupons at 
their Student Union. This coupon when 
presented at the Arena box office entitles 
students to purchase a $3.75 General Ad
mission ticket for $2.00.
City residents can submit applications for
Ballfield Permits beginning February 20, 
1979 to the City of Pittsburgh Department 
of Parks and* Recreation in Room 400 of 
the City-County Building. A non-return
able fee must accompany all applications 
submitted by teams or organizations whose 
members are twenty years of age and older. 
Such teams will be charged $25 for the use
careers inengineering aria science
at the DAVID TAYLOR NAVAL SHIP RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT ' CENTERWashington, DC. & Annapolis, Md
of ballfields during daylight hours and $50 
to play under the lights for the entire sea
son. Payment must be made in the form of 
a check or money order payable to the 
Treasurer, City of Pittsburgh. Teams com
prised of members under the age of twenty 
are not repuired to submit an accompany
ing fee with Ballfield Permit applications. 
All applications must be returned to the - 
Department of Parks and Recreation no 
later than midnight, March 11, 1979. Ap
plications then will be verified for residen
cy and fee requirements. Applications 
will not be Processed on a First-Come,, 
First-Served Basis, but will be reviewed in 
total after March 11, 1979. Permits will 
not be issued before the first week of 
April.
How to break into non-traditional careers
for women is the leading job-related 
question asked at the Job Information 
Center (JIC), the most recent of the many 
services offered by Carnegie Library of 
Pittsburgh. Employment opportunities in 
new fields, occupational prospects, and 
comparative salary expectations are other 
areas of top concern. JIC is located on the 
first floor of the Central library in Oakland. 
Adolph Schwartz, formerly with the 
Bureau of Employment Security, will be 
available every Thursday between 10:00 
and 4:00 for personal consultation. To 
make an appointment with Mr. Schwartz, 
call the JIC at 622-3133 any day during 
regular Library hours. The JIC staff can 
recommend helpful books on a wide range 
of topics, from writing an effective resume 
to starting and managing a business of your 
own. The JIC materials are available to the 
public during regular library hours.
pimiiiMiiiiiiimitHiiiiMiiiiimiiiimmiimiiiiiimimiiiimmiimiiiiiiiiiiiwiiimiimiiwwiiiHiwMiiiiimiiwfitimiiiiiiiiitwiiiiiiimwiitu|
Today's Research for Tomorrow's Ships 1
scholarships
Applications are now available in Dean
Cox's office, Warner Hall 204, for the 
PITTSBURGH ALUMNI PANHELLENIC 
SCHOLARSHIP for 1979-1980. To be elig
ible, the applicant should be a member in 
good standing of an active chapter of a 
National Panhellenic Fraternity, be a curr
ent junior and have a quality point average 
of 3.0 for her three years at CarnegieMellon. She should also have participated 
in her fraternity's activities and in other 
extra-curricular activities.
ANNOUNCING the 20th annual scholar
ship awards of the Pennsylvania Federation 
of Democratic Women. Three scholarships 
will be awarded: a Florence Dornblaser 
Memorial Scholarship, an Emma Guffey 
Miller Memorial Scholarship, and a John J. 
Kane, Jr. Scholarship, each in the amount 
of $300.
Any deserving woman student in the ju
nior class of an accredited college or uni
versity may apply. The awards are for use 
during her senior year. She must be major
ing in political science, government, eco
nomics, or history, or preparing to teach 
one of these subjects. She must have good 
scholastic standing. She must be reasonably 
active in student activities. She must be a 
resident of Pennsylvania. She must esta
blish the need for financial aid. And she 
must possess a Democratic family back
ground or be an active participant in the 
affairs of the Democratic Party.
Applications must be postmarked no la
ter than April 15, 1979. Applications may 
be obtained by writing to: Sophie Masloff, 
3566 Beechwood Blvd., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
15217.
On-Compus Interviews Scheduled for:
MARCH 7, 1979
See your Placement Officer to arrange for Interview 
An Equal Opportunity Employer
TARTAN ELECTIONS
MARCH 13 AT 5 P.M. 
IN SKIBO ROOM 13
POSITIONS OPEN:
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
NEWS EDITOR 
FEATURES EDITOR 
ENTERTAINMENT EDITOR 
PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR 
SPORTS EDITOR 
FOLIO EDITOR
Candidates for Editor-in-chief must be fgll-time CMU 
students who have worked on the TARTAN for at least 
one semester. Candidates for section editors must be 
full-time students, and need no prior experience. All 
TARTAN staffers who are in the masthead, or have writ
ten for two out of the last four issues before election*, 
may vote.
atttltililiilHillllillllllHMtMltllfllllltlHllllllUImutin

---------------------------------------------------

upcoming events
a SEM SSS
February 22 at 6, 8:30, 11 PM 
Madwoman of Chaillot in DH2210 
Admission is $.75 with ID $1 without
Countess Aurelia, portrayed beautifully 
by Katharine Hepburn, is the madwomen 
of Chaillot who cannot abide the evil 
change of the once graceful Paris. She and 
her friends scheme to undo the Establish
ments wrong. Also starring Danny Kaye, 
Yul Brynner, and Charles Boyer.
February 23 at 6, 8, 10, 12 PM 
The End in DH2210
Admission is $1 with Id/$1.25 without
Burt Reynolds directs this very funny 
movie about a dying man obsessed with 
the idea of suicide. Starring Sally Fields, 
Dom DeLouise and Burt Reynolds.theater...
The Pittsburgh Public Theatre will 
present Vanities opening January 31 and 
Ashes opening February 6. Their reper
tory plays will run thru March 4 with per
formances Tuesdays, Wednesdays and 
Thursdays at 8 PM, Fridays and Saturdays 
at 8:30 PM , and Sundays at 7 PM. There 
will also be some matinees. For more in
formation and reservations call 765-3500.
The Pittsburgh Metropolitan Stage 
Company will present The Metro in Moli
re's famous comedy Tartuffe for five 
weekends, February 15 through March 24. 
It will play Thursdays, Fridays, and Satur
days from February 15-24 and March 8-17 
at the Lovelace Marionette Studio at 5884 
Ellsworth Ave., and March 22-24 at the 
Smithfield United Church, 620 Smithfield 
St. Performances begin at 8 PM. A dona
tion is requested. For more information 
call 441-6176.
The Pittsburgh Laboratory Theatre will 
present Edward Albee's The American 
Dream from February 2 thru March 10. 
Curtain times are Thursdays and Sundays 
at 8 PM and Fridays and Saturdays at 8:30 
PM. For reservations call 621-2876.
Camelot Production Company will pre
sent the romantic musical fantasy, Brigadoon, for twelve performances beginning 
February 2 through February 25. Perfor
mances will be at the Plaza Theatre, 4765 
Liberty Avenue, at 8:30 PM on Fridays 
and Saturdays, and 7:30 PM on Sundays. 
For reservations call 683-7770.
THEREi A 
DIFFERENCE!fVv 
g
EDUCATIONAL 
CENTER 
ESSEX HOUSE LL2 
Corner of Neqley & Centre 
Pittsburgh 15206
TEST PREPARATION 
SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938
Visit Our Centers 
And See For Yourself 
Why We Make The Difference
Call Days, Eves & Weekends
661-2772
Pittsburgh Public Theatre will present 
three Beckett plays Knapp's Last Tape, 
Come and Go and Act Without Words II 
from February 17 thru 26. For more infor
mation call 323-1900.
The Performing Arts Department*- of 
Community College of Allegheny County 
South Campus is presenting Euripides 
classic tragedy The Trojan Women on 
February 16, 17, 23 and 24 at 8 PM on 
the stage at South Campus in West Mifflin. 
Reservations and group information may 
be obtained by calling the box office at 
469-1100, ext. 390, Tuesday through 
Friday from 10 AM to 4 PM.
music...
CMUs Music Department will present 
La Serva Padrona, The* Women in the Gar
den, sung in English, directed by David 
Gorin and conducted by Istavan Jaray on 
February 22 thru 25 at 8 PM in the 
Alumni Concert Hall. Tickets are $5.
On Wednesday, February 21, 1979 at 
3:00 PM the CMU Jazz Ensemble will 
perform in the lobby of GSIA. This is 
now a traditional part of the Program for 
Executives. There are a total of nine con
certs. Future dates will be announced in 
the TARTAN.
Charlie Daniels & his band will give a 
concert at Allegheny College in Meadville 
on February 21 at 8:15 PM. Tickets are 
$8 on sale at National Record Mart.
WDVE and DiCesare-Engler Productions 
will present an evening with Stephen Stills 
and his band March 24. Tickets are $9.75 
on sale at National Record Marts and the 
Stanley Box Office. For more information 
call 281-3700.
There will be a folk music concert at 
Duquesne University Student Union Ball
room at 7:30 PM on February 25 which 
will feature traditional American folk 
music performed by Margaret MacArthur, 
and the Cork Lickers, and the Louisiana 
Aces. Admission is $5. For more informa
tion call 687-1510
The Portfolio, 420 S. Craig St., will pre
sent as entertainment on: February 20, an 
Inventational Performance Evening; Febru
ary 21, Gene and Dave; February 22, the 
Patricia Cavanaugh and Bill Besterman 
Equinox; February 23, Young Lust; 
February 24, Devilish Mary; February 26, 
an Open Stage Nite; February 27, an 
Inventational Performance Evening; and 
February 28, Gene and Dave. For more 
information call 682-8594.
Salome will be presented by the Pitts
burgh Opera on March 1 and 3 at Heinz 
Hall. Curtain time is 8 PM. For more 
information call 281-0912.
The Pittsburgh String Quartet will give a 
concert on February 20 at 8 PM in the 
Chapel, Chatham campus. The event is free 
and open to the public.
Pastiche, a musical collage of singular 
nature, will be presented by Robin Meloy 
on February 25 and 26 at 8:30 PM in the 
Eddy Theatre, Chatham campus. The event 
is free and open to the public.
Susan Nelson will give a flute recital on 
February 22 at 8 PM in the Music Center, 
Chatham campus. The event is free and 
open to the public.cinema...
SDC presents on February 24:
Stalag 17 at 6 and 10 PM
William Holden, Peter Graves, Robert 
Strauss, Director Billy Wilder. Wilder 
produces a funny, cynical, brilliantly vi
cious and poignant masterpiece" - Charles 
Higham, Film Quarterly
A Walk in the Sun at 8 and 12 PM
Dana Andrews, Lloyd Bridges. This film 
probes the thoughts and experiences of 20 
American infantrymen on a dangerous mis
sion during WWII.
Screening will be held in DH2210. Ad
mission is $.50 with ID/$1.00 without.
This weeks movies in the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse Film Repertory are: February 
20, Harlan County ; February 21, Z; Febru
ary 22, Slaughterhouse 5; February 23, Cat 
and Mouse; February 24, Last Tango in 
Paris; February 25, The Wizard of Oz; 
February 26, Slapshot; February 27, Brew
ster McCloud; and February 28, China
town. All seats are $2 with two showings 
presented nightly starting at 7:30. For 
more information call 621-4445.
A Woman Under the Influence by John 
Cassavetes will be shown February 22 at 8 
PM in the Carnegie Lecture Hall. Admis
sion is $1.
Larry Gottheim, a visiting filmmaker, 
will present and discuss his two most 
recent films, Mouches Volantes on Febru
ary 23 and Four Shadows on February 24. 
Both films will be shown at 8 PM at the 
Pittsburgh Film Makers, 205 Oakland Ave. 
with admission of $1.50.
The Seventh Voyage of Sinbad will be 
shown February 24 at 2:30 PM in the 
Museum of Art Theatre. Admission is $1.
The Band Wagon and Danza Exotica 
will be shown February 25 at 7:30 PM in 
the Carnegie Lecture Hall. Admission for 
both films is $1.
The City of Pittsburgh Department of 
Parks and Recreation will present Hail the 
Conquering Hero on February 22 at Schenley Park Ice Rink. For more information 
call 255-2354.art...
Forbes Street Gallery will present a 
Design.Show from February 20 thru 25. 
Gallery times are Wednesday thru Sunday 
12 to 4 PM and Tuesday thru Thursday 
7 to 9 PM.
come dance the 
light fantastic!4MN200, 197V o9l9mNC mngil7nl 7Vm99V 
-iVV7gMmoU -N vlstP Ph Twntf wvtos APFh55v
EVERY FRIDAY AND SUNDAY
a.
V)S eer
322-4949 
I !
Cttni rrrnmi junwnt 1INir
2002 ROUTE 4 A NO LINCOLN WAY 664*0553
WHITE OAK P*
EVERY FRIDAY AND SATURDAY
THE AREAS ONLY EXCLUSIVELY
under 21 DISCOS!*
> i~ o 
i ss
1 M
i 3|.
Z M2 i*3 *o SSO
 85
o  
j- s
in
mnm
CMU alumnus, Cynthia Ference, will 
show recent drawings and paintings in the 
Velar Gallery (GSIA) from March 5 to 
March 16. Gallery hours are Monday 
through Friday, 9 to 5.
The Associated Artists of Pittsburghs 
69th Annual Exhibition will open Febru
ary 9 in the Heinz Gallery of the Museuir. 
of Art, Carnegie Institute. The exhibit will 
run thru March 15 with Museum Hours 
being Tuesday thru Saturday 10 AM to 5 
PM and Sundays 1 to 6 PM.
The Museum of Art, Carnegie Institute 
will exhibit Twentieth Century French 
Prints in Gallery 10 from February 15 
through June 10. It will include prints by 
Jaques Villon, Henri Matisse, Georges 
Braque, Fernand Leger, Pierre Soulages and 
Georges Rouault. Museum hours are Tues
day thru Saturdays 10 AM to 5 PM and 
Sundays from 1 to 6 PM.
Two dimensional shapes create three 
dimensional forms. A show of paintings 
and sculptures by: Peter Risser, Stuart 
Sua and Steven Abrue. Fred Lorini Gallery, 153 Boffs Ave., Mt. Washington. Cham
pagne opening Sunday, March 11, 4-8 PM. 
The exhibition can be viewed free of 
charge, Monday thru Sat from 1:30-5:30 
PM.
CMU Student Projects will be on dis
play in the Entrance Gallery of the Mu
seum of Art, Carnegie Institute from Feb
ruary 1 thru April 1. Museum hours are 
Tuesdays thru Saturdays 10 AM to 5 PM
and Sundays 1 to 6 PM.
The collection of Dr. and Mrs. 
Raymond Goldblum will be on display in 
Gallery D, Museum of Art, Carnegie In
stitute from January 25 thru March 11. 
Museum hours are Tuesday thru Saturday 
10 AM to 5 PM and Sundays 1 to 6 PM.
Winning photos in the Natural World 
Photo Contest will be on display in the 
Changing Exhibits Gallery of Carnegie Mu
seum of Natural History. The exhibit will 
remain through March 18.
China Trade Porcelain from the collec
tion of Mrs. James M. Schoonmaker, Jr. 
will be displayed in the Treasure Room 
thru May 13. Gallery times are Tuesdays 
thru Saturdays from 10 AM to 5 PM and 
Sundays from 1 to 6 PM.
Photographs from the permanent collec
tion will be exhibited in the Ground Floor 
Corridor from February 8 thru May 3. 
Gallery times are Tuesdays thru Saturdays 
10 AM to 5 PM and Sundays from 1 to 6 
PM.
The Silver Eye is sponsoring spring pho
tographic workshops and lectures at the 
Manchester Craftsmens Guild, 1719 Buena 
Vista St., Northside. The first master work
shop will begin on March 9 and the con
cluding one on May 18. For more informa
tion, contact Robert C. Cornelius, 687-
7122.
It has come to our attention that many 
students feel there just isnt anything to 
do at CMU. Help the TARTAN prove that 
students need not sit alone in their rooms. 
If youre having a party or event send us 
the necessary information (date, time, 
place, what's going on, etc.), and well 
give you free advertising in the Upcoming 
Events section. The only stipulation we 
make is that the event must be open to the 
campus community even though the actual 
affair may be held off campus.r
>
L.
BARGAIN BOOKS
BRYN MAWR 
VASSAR BOOKSTORE
4612 Winthrop St 
Oakland 
Mon.-Fri. 10-4,
Sat. 10-1
mick eyyNat
on lCC rlRcsyRoci
I

---------------------------------------------------

Carnegie-Mellon University
during the summer, 1979, will hold two 
six-week sessions as follows: 
1 st SIX-WEEK SESSION 
May 15  June 22
Regular Undergraduate Courses
2nd SIX-WEEK SESSION 
June 25  August 3
Regular Undergraduate and Graduate 
Courses
UNDERGRADUATE TUITION:
$3 3/unit**  All undergraduates
GRADUATE TUITION:
$50/unit** - CFA/CIT/MIS/AMS/H&SS 
$42/unit**  English and History 
M.A./D.A. candidates
**3 units = 1 credit
This is a tentative list of courses to be 
offered. The actual list of courses including 
class schedules will be announced and pub
lished depending upon student response. 
Application materials and further information 
will be mailed upon receipt of your inquiry.
Please give your tentative reply as soon as 
possible by completing the attached form 
and returning it to:
Director, Summer Studies 
Admissions Office
Carnegie-Mellon University 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213
Phone (412) 578-2082
Carnegie-Mellon University
Name_________________________________________
Mailing Address________________________________
Present School_______________________________
I am interested in the following course(s)
Course Number Title Session
Please return this form to:
Director, Summer Studies 
Admissions Office
Carnegie-Mellon University 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213
Carnegie-Mellon University
TENTATIVE UNDERGRADUATE AND GRADUATE COURSES FOR SUMMER SESSIONS
(1) - First Session: May 15  June 22; (2) - Second Session: June 25  August 3
* - Graduate Course Number
Chemistry:09-105Dynamics and Equilibria9 units(1)
09-117Organic Chemistry 19 units(1)
09-218Organic Chemistry II9 units
Civil Engineering:12-205Introduction to Engineering Mechanics9 units(1)
12-211Solid Mechanics 19 units(1)
12-215Materials12 units(1)
Computer Science:15-104Introduction to Computing A (FORTRAN)9 units(1)(2)
15-111Introduction to Computing B (non-FORTRAN)9 units(1X2)
Mathematics:21-121Calculus 111 units(1)
21-121Calculus 1 (self-paced)11 units(1)(2)
- 21-122Calculus II (regular of self-paced)11 units(1)(2)
21-123Calculus III (regular or self-paced)11 units(1 ) (2)
21-141Computational Linear Algebra9 units(1)(2)
21-261Ordinary Differential Equations (self-paced only)4.5 units(1 ) (2)
21-262Partial Differential Equations (self-paced only)4.5 units(1)(2)
21-263Vector Analysis (self-paced only)4.5 units(1)(2)
21-265Linear Programming (self-pace'd only)4.5 units(1)(2)
21-267Graph Theory (self-paced only)4.5 units(1X2)
Mechanical24-112Fluid Mechanics 19 units(1)
Engineering:24-121Thermodynamics 19 units(1)
24-141Statics and Dynamics9 units(1)
24-291Engineering Economy9 units(1)
Metallurgy and27-322Process Metallurgy12 units(1)(2)
Materials Science:27-332Physical Metallurgy II9 units(1)(2)
27-350Seminar9 units(1X2)
27-755Metallurgical Problemsvar. units(1X2)
'27-756Masters Projectvar. units(1X2)
27-775Thesis var. units(1X2)
39-227Analysis, Synthesis and Evaluation II9 units(1X2)
Physics:33-121Physics 1: Mechanics (self-paced)10 units(1X2)
33-122Physics II: Heat Waves and Optics (self-paced)10 units(1X2)
33-123Physics III: Electricity and Magnetism (self-paced)10 units(1X2)
33-129Electronics 110 units(1)
Statistics:36-211Probability and Applied Statistics 19 units(1X2)
36-212Probability and Applied Statistics II9 units(1X2)
36-215Probability and Statistics 19 units(1X2)
36-216Probability and Statistics II9 units(1X2)
36-219Statistical Methods-for Data Analysis 19 units(1X2)
36-220Statistical Methods for Data Analysis II9 units(1X2)
Design:51-102Introduction to Design18 units(2)
51-116Calligraphy9 units(2)
51-122Introduction to Photography9 units(2)
Drama:54-193Play Analysis (6/25-7/20)12 units(2)
54-725*Voice Training for the Actor (6/25-7/20)12 units(2)
Music:57-182Solfege and Dictation 16 units(2)
-57-184Solfege and Dictation II6 units(2)
57-207,907*History of notation9 units(2)
57-442Keyboard Harmony and Musicianship 16 units(2)
57-443Keyboard Harmony and Musicianship II6 units(2)
57-727*Vocal Pedagogy 1 (Technique)3 units(2)
57-728*Vocal Pedagogy II (Repertoire)3 units(2)
57-867*Administration and Supervision in Music Education
(7/16-8/3)6 units(2)
57-873*Principles of Music Education (6/25-7/13)6 units(2)
57-875*Contemporary Problems in Music Education6 units(2)
57-931*Directed Research6 units(2)
Art:60-119,719*Drawing9 units(2)
60-226,726*Painting9 units(2)
60-231,731*Screen Printing9 units(2)
60-233,733*Relief9 units(2)*60-235,735*Lithography9 units(2)
60-237,737*Intaglio9 units(2)
60-254,754*Metalcrafts9 units(2)
60-268,768*Fiber9 units(2)
60-343,743*Glassworking Workshop (6/25-7/1 3)18 units(2)
60-351,751*Ceramic Sculpture Workshop (7/16-8/3)18 units(2)
60-360,760*Polyester Resin Sculpture Workshop (6/25-7/1 3)18 units(2)
60-361,761*Sculpture/Metal Fabrication Workshop (7/16-8/3)18 units(2)
60-380,780*Contemporary Art9 units(2)
Administration and70-101Elements of Industrial Administration9 units(1X2)
Management70-121Accounting I9 units(1X2)
Science:70-311Organizational Behavior 19 units(1X2)
70-361Foundations of Law9 units(2)
70-371Production 19 units(1X2)
70-381Marketing 1 -9 units(1X2)
70-391Finance 1v 9 units(1)
70-422Cost Accounting9 units(2)
70-451Electronic Data Processing9 units(1)
70-491Finance II9 units(2)
Economics:73-100Economic Analysis and Contemporary Problems 19 units(1)
73-200Economic Growth and Fluctuations9 units(1)
73-250Resource Allocation in a Market Economy. 9 units(1)
73-459Benefit'Cost Analysis9 unitsH
English:76-100Problems in Writing9 units(1X2)
76-101Fiction and Fact9 units(2)
76-321Shakespeare9 units(1)
76-322Advanced Study, Shakespeare9/12 units(2)
76-510Fiction Workshop9 units(2)
76-520Creative Writing Workshop9 units(1)
76-703*Modern Theories of Rhetoric and the Teaching of
Composition12 units(2)
76-876*The Tragic Spirit in World Literature12 units(2)
76-880*Studies in Poetry12 units(2)
History:79-223Problems in American History: The Presidency9 units11)
79-244Crime and Justice in American History9 units(1)
79-282History of the Pittsburgh Region9 units(1)
79-291Twentieth Century America9 units(1)
79-477Sex and Death9unHs(1)
79-702*CivM War and Reconstruction, 1850-188012 units(2)
79-703*Crime and Justice in American History1 2 units(2)
79-870*Internship in Historical Research 112 units(2)
79-889*The Teaching of History for Summer Community College
Instructors12 units(2)
79-896*Reading in History6/12 units(2)
80-657Aesthetics9 units(1)
Modern Languages82-101Intensive Beginning French12 uni's(1)
and Literature:82-102Intensive Beginning French12 units(2)
82-121Intensive Beginning German12 units(1)
82-122Intensive Beginning German12 units(2)
82-141Intensive Beginning Spanish12 units(1)
Psychology:85-101General Psychology9 units(1)
