by Ronnie Ben-Aron
In two days, people throughout the 
country will be celebrating Thanksgiving. 
Last Saturday, every CMU football player 
and fan witnessed a game which they are 
most certainly thankful for being able to 
see as the Tartans edged Minnesota-Morris 
in double overtime, 31-25. It started the 
way most Tartan games do. On the first 
play from scrimmage, Minnesota-Morris 
fumbled and CMU had the ball inside the 
ten yard line. Three running plays latei, 
fullback Bob Gasior went in from two 
yards out, Dennv Postufkas kick made 
it 7-0, one minute and 26 seconds into 
the game.
After stopping the Minnesota-Morris 
Cougars, the Tartans used the clock, 
running eleven consecutive plays in which 
quarterback Bobby Kennedy, tailback 
Perry Colosimo, and full back Bob Gaisor 
combined for 56 yards. The big gain of the 
drive was a 22 yard run by Kennedy. The 
drive stalled and the Tartans faced a 4th 
and two situations at the Cougar 15. 
Instead of going for a field goal, Coach 
Chuck Klausing opted for a pass play. 
Kennedys first pass of the game went to 
tight end Greg Samsa and was good for a 
15 yard score. Postufka again converted 
the point after and the Tartans were ap
parently on their way to a rout.
However, the entire defensive squad, 
led by defensive co-captain, Gus Sunseri, 
yelled encouragement and warning to the 
defense. If the offense had a let-down, 
the Cougars could very well regroup and 
make a comeback. Even Sunseri would 
have trouble believing how accurate his 
assessment of the 7th ranked Cougars was. 
For the next 41 minutes, the Cougars 
controlled the flow of the game.
Please note ...
Hunt Librarys Reserve Book Room 
will be closed from noon on Wednesday, 
November 21, 1979 through Friday, 
November 23. Library administrators urge 
students to plan around this period during 
which the library Reserve Room will 
be closed for renovation.
The teams traded punts and the Cougars 
had the ball on their own 19 yard line. 
Four plays later, the score was 146. The 
big play of the drive was a 57 yard pass by 
quarterback Kreb to fullback Birch, 
coming out of the backfield. Birch was the 
leading receiver, gaining 69 yards through 
the air. His 3.67 yards per rushing attempt 
was also tops in the contest. The Tartan 
plaid curtain, however did a good job 
of containing him.
- The next two times the Tartans Had the 
ball, Kennedy gave it to the Cougars via 
interceptions. The second interception led 
to a six yard touchdown drive which took 
four plays. Down by two points, Minnesota-Morris went for the two point con
version. Fortunately, defensive back Joe 
Wagner broke up a close play, and the 
Tartans went into the lockerroom ahead by 
only two points, 1412. If the Tartans 
were worrying about their future, it was 
because they had good reason to. After 
Kennedys TD pass to the Dancing Pig, 
Greg Samsa, he completed two of six 
passes, but those were to Cougar defenders. 
Coach Klausing even used a halfback 
option pass, something he hadnt used all 
year. In the third quarter, worry almost 
became panic. Kennedy was scrambling in
The enthusiasm of the crowd near the end of 
time victory.
rfH r TkTTiA m f
Volume 80, Number 10 IM I I Carnegie-Mellon University
November 20, 1979 H| Im I Pittsburgh, PA 15213
No Iranian problem here
SDC rejects rebate source
by Doug Kirsop
Im distressed that we cant resolve 
a simple dispute such as this..., said 
Richard Van Horn, Vice President for 
Management at a meeting with the Student 
Dorm Council (SDC) Executive Board.
Van Horn, Dean of Student Affairs 
Earle Swank, Auxiliary Services 
Director Oscar Mayer, and Auxiliary 
Services Student Liason Yvonne McCredie 
met with the board to discuss rebate pro
posals to the residents of the new Margaret 
Morrison Apartments.
The MM residents have asserted that the 
University broke the housing contract made 
with each student living in University 
housing facilities. A part of the contract 
states that, among other things, the Uni
versity will provide a desk and bookshelves 
in each residents room. Due to a delay in 
delivery of the furniture, the MM residents 
were without desks or bookshelves for the 
first several weeks of the semester.
The original proposal submitted by 
SDC and MM residents to Auxiliary
o
 o o 
4game helped spur the Tartans to a double overServices indicated a restitution of $100 
per sudent, which would cost the Univer
sity $19,200. SDC officers are upset, 
however, with the Administrations insis
tence that the money used to pay the MM 
residents will be reflected in the housing 
budget. For students living in any Univer
sity dormitory, this translates into either 
an additional increase in housing charges or 
the elimination of an already budgeted 
improvement project.
Steve Fulton, Vice-President for Morewood expressed the concern of the SDC 
board when he said, We had a contact 
with you, and you had a contract with your supplier ...
Both Van Horn and Mayer ageed that 
the University had broken the housing 
contract, but said that there was no way 
the University could have protected it
self. Although the Universitys contract 
with the funiture supplier did have a late 
delivery penalty clause, Van Horn indi
cated that such clauses are very difficult 
to enforce or collect upon.
When asked why the residents could 
not be paid from some of the $83,000 that 
the University showed as profit for the last 
fiscal year, Van Horn indicated that the 
money was being used to repay debts in
curred in the years 1969-1971.
The meeting ended after an hour and 
a half, when Van Horn suggested that 
the same group hold another meeting with 
a contract lawyer and a contractor to 
discuss the legality of the housing contract, 
and penalty clauses in contracts the Univer
sity had or has with contractors and sup
pliers.
A similar situation occured three 
years ago in Scobell, when residents 
had no shower or hot water for the 
first several weeks of the fall semester. 
The $50 paid to each of those residents 
also came from the Housing budget. 
And although the situation was the fault of 
the contractor, the University did not file 
any type of legal suit.
by Larry Duffee
Unlike several other college campuses in 
the United States where there have been 
violent demonstrations against Iranian stu
dents, the small number of Iranians attendding CMU have not been directly affected 
by the recent hostage situation in their 
homeland.
Tom Kerr, Dean of GSIA and President 
of the Pennsylvania American Civil Liber
ties Union, said that he knew of no inci
dents involving Iranian students here at 
CMU.
According to Ed Delaney, Director of 
Public Relations, there have been some 
area media groups asking questions about 
the Universitys Iranian students, as well as 
attempting to gain access to the students. 
Delaney said, I know that the Iranian 
student to whom I spoke said that he did 
not want to make any sort of statement 
on the situation in his country, and he 
assumed that his friends did not want to 
either. The student added that We 
only want to be students.
Richard Van Horn, Vice President for 
Management, made it clear that the Univer
sity should not have any type of a stand 
on the present situation in Iran, nor on 
the plight of students from that nation 
studying here. We should take no official 
position, said Van Horn/ because we are
not a political institution in a position to 
make such stands.
In the event that the United States 
government decides to deport those stu
dents from Iran here in the U.S. Van Horn 
said, Before foreign students come here 
to the college, we check their visas thor
oughly, and every one of the Iranian stu
dents at CMU is here in a proper fashion. 
But if the Government does decide to de
port certain students, then that is the gov
ernments decision, which we can do no
thing about
Registrar Harry Whitehead stated that 
he probably would not release the names 
of any Iranian students here at CMU, 
but that this was a course of normal 
action. Whitehead also said that he 
didnt know if the University would 
release a list of the students names, but 
so far I have not been contacted about 
this.
The population of Iranian students at 
CMU is very small, says Delaney, Only 
about nine students. But according to 
the President of the Intemation Students 
Organization Hubert Wen, I am not 
aware of any Iranian students on campus.
So, despite many demonstrations else
where in the nation, CMUs Iranian popu
lation appears to be enduring quietly, try
ing to be normal students while their 
homeland burns in discontent.
Quarterback Bob Kennedy fires a roll-out 
Perry Colosimo._____________________________
pass on the run with protection providedby tailback
CMU wins in overtime

---------------------------------------------------

$
TARTAN
What do you know?
Education is one of those vague words that has a dif
ferent meaning to everyone. We all know that we are at 
CMU to get an education; yet we are all here for differ
ent reasons. Some people think of an education as simply 
the acquisition of knowledge to make for a better and 
more enjoyable life. In any case, we are each pursuing 
our particular area of studies because we each feel in our 
own way that this will help us to have a "better life.
Here at CMU, battles are constantly arising over the 
relative importance of various majors. CIT people band 
together and claim that artists, poets and historians are 
wasteful people doing nothing but occupying valuable 
space in classrooms and on the computerspace that 
could be put to much "better use in the hands of an 
engineer or scientist.
What is the point, they ask, Vin spending thousands 
of dollars to learn to play the trombone, or to write poems 
or to look back at history? What good can possibly come 
from that?
On the other side of the cut stand the writers, the his
torians, the musicians and the rest of the H&SS and CFA 
people. "Hey, they scream. What can you possibly 
know about anything? You've never read Shakespeare; 
you know nothing about art; and you cant even write a 
grammatically correct letter-to-the-editor. And so the 
argument goes.
It seems to the TARTAN we are all missing something; 
that somewhere in the midst of all the engineers and poets, 
scientists and philosophers, musicians, computer scientists 
and historians there is, or should be, one common goal. 
We are all here to learn. Learning, in any form, is a good 
thing. Knowledge, alone, can make life more interesting. 
Not everything you do will be rewarded monetarily, nor 
should it be. There is something to be said for personal 
satisfaction-that is, doing something for no other reason 
than the fact you enjoy it and it makes your happy.
This is not to say, however, that the pursuit of profit 
is a bad thing. Money is often necessary to gain knowledge. 
Education is an expensive proposition, but its high price 
tag does not mean you must forfeit personal satisfaction for 
more practical skills. It is true that engineering may 
yield more lucrative career options, but this does not make 
the study of engineering more worthwhile.
Instead of trying to solve an argument that will proba
bly never be resolved, maybe it is more important to think 
about why this is a constant battle. Could it be that this 
university is not turning out well-rounded educated indi
viduals, but people narrowly skilled in very specific disci
plines? It seems that engineers are sometimes so con
cerned with technology that they are neglecting other 
aspects of themselves and the world. Artists may be deny
ing the fact that a large part of the world is technical and, 
hence, are ignoring an important aspect of life.
We must stop every once in a while and remember that 
the world is an amazingly multi-faceted place with lots 
of room for all of us. We need humanists as much as 
technologists. But most importantly, we need people who 
realize that life can be approached from many different 
angles. If we combine our knowledge and work together, 
we can all share the benefits of better education.
Susan Borg
Dossier Magazine Editor
Due to Thanksgiving break, there will be no regular 
TARTAN next week. The TARTAN wishes you an enjoy
able and relaxing break. But we also urge you to use some 
of your time to find out whats going on in the worldin 
inn, in Cambodia, and the Presidential race. These are all 
events that have, or will soon have, a direct effect on us.
We also want to wish the Tartans the very best of luck 
as they travel to Ithaca College for the semi-finals of the 
NCAA Division III playoffs.
Happy Turkey Day
1
the director-KLAUSING.
"Hand in hand,..."
Editor:
A friendly rivalry between col
leges here at CMU is probably 
both inevitable and healthy, but 1 
think the rift between certain stu
dents of CIT and H&SS has gotten 
a little out of hand.
As a freshman in CIT, 1 was ashamed and embarrassed at the 
nonsense brought forth by Mr. 
Okunewick in his letter to the 
TARTAN last week. His attacks 
and generalization focused on 
H&SS merely are a reflection of 
his ignorance in the areas of hu
manities, and there is no excuse 
for him to publicize such a fact.
Contrary to Mr. Okunewicks 
understanding, the idea is not to 
strike back at an individual or a
particular college, the idea is to 
respond to a criticism, or possi
bly construct a reasonable one 
for yourself. However, 1 find his 
comments both dishonorable 
and distasteful, as his reference 
to Shakespeare (being a waste) 
certainly supports an equally 
mistaken and popular concep
tion of CIT people as being 
nerds and weirdos.
There is absolutely no reason 
why people in H&SS should not 
learn to use a computer, and for 
the tuition we pay, a couple mil
lion dollars worth of machinery 
is no wasteif people use it. 
Granted, the file situation is a 
classic example of a lack of organ
ization; that isnt the fault of the 
H&SS student.
What people at both schools 
fail to realize is that before we ar 
members of any individual col
lege, we all go to Carnegie-Mellon 
University. I think we would be 
much better off for remembering 
that and putting a stop to this pet
ty and immature squabbling and 
feuding. Humanities and technol
ogy go hand in hand in the real 
world; maybe we should try it 
here too!
Pete Levin 
Freshman CMU 
"... all in this together..." 
Editor:
On Tuesday, November 13 in 
the TARTAN we were the witnes
ses of a series of blanket state
ments by a CIT student. The let
ter was written out of frustration;
TARTAN
Volume 80
. Number 10 
November 20,1979
News Editor: 
Features Editor: 
Entertainment Editors:
Editor in Chief: Jean Pellegrini 
Publication Manager: Michael Brzustowicz 
Managing Editors: Neil Adler
Brian Byrnes 
Business Manager: Karen Stevens 
Production Manager: Smita Pai 
Doug Kirsop 
Lynn Epstein 
Alan Spero 
Melody Mazzie
Sports Editor: 
Magazine Editor: 
Photography Editor:
Perry Colosimo 
Susan Borg 
Robert Zusman
News: Beth Arden, Asst. Editor; Tim Barkwell. Jim Bost,Sue Brillman, Jeanette Bryan, Anne Cesnik. Linda Dickerson, 
Larry Duffee, Ed Frankberry. Chris Gebhardt, Andre Jenkins, Mark Kennett. Pete Levin, Chris Magyai, Joshua Melvin, 
Deb Morgas, Debbie Nir, Elliot Ohlberg, Judy Ohlin, Andy Ragan. Vernon Valentine, Sue Wilkin, Elsie Yoder, Eddy 
Zayas.
Features: Jeanne Abmayr, Lisa Andruzzi, Luis Ball, Beth Bangor, Valerie Brandt, Art Benjamin, Michael Conroy,Chris 
Gebhart, Bob Gleason, Roger Harris, Neva Jones, Paul Karmin, Kathy Krummert, David Land, Kwasi Mensah, David 
Mills, Sheryl Sarima, Stu Seidman.
Entertainment: Ed Stocky, events editor; Scott Alburger, Kate Bertrand,Bob Henry, Dave Kirby, Paul I,. Kravits, Cheryl 
Goodman, Timothy LeVan, Joan Livitski, Paul Mendler, Gretchen Miller. Aline Naters, Debbie Nir. Scott Schaffer, 
David Sheward, Ted Smits. Vernon Valentine.
Sparts: David Wills, assistant editor; Fran Arsht, Ronnie Ben-Aron, Dave Brandwene, Pat Crump. Frank Pugliano,Scott 
Schatter, Bob Share, Thomas Smith, Lesley Weiser. Craig Woolheater.
Product on: Suzanne Chan. Ken Kulak. Gretchen Miller, Ken Salem, Sue Wilkin. Ed Zayas.
Photography: Chuck Chidekel, Larry Duffee, Jenny Ladd. Skip Stong.
%
Art: Tom Hart, acting director; Robert Conroy. Andy Epstein.Tina Klem.
Copyright 1979 by the Camegie-Mellon University Tartan. All rights reserved. The Editorial Board reserves the right 
to edit or withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Gov
ernment of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; (412) 578-2111 or 2112. 
24-hour answering service 2113. Business Offices: Skibo 52; (412) 578-2111. Printed by Artcrafts Unlimited, 
Pittsburgh, PA 15206.

---------------------------------------------------

which would gain from an in
crease : What about those clubs 
which cannot be funded at all 
because there simply isnt enough 
money to go around?
This brings to mind last years 
Senate financings. When budget
ing was just about complete, it 
was discovered that there wasnt 
enough money to finish all allo
cations for the spring or to do 
any budgeting for the next fall. 
Although this raises questions 
about the Senates budgeting pro
cess, it also illustates a more basic 
point: WE NEED MORE
MONEY. On the December 5 
referendum you will have the 
following choices: 1) no increase 
at all, or one of 2) $5 3) $10 or 
4) $20. These levels were
arbitarily set by Senate without 
research or understanding of the 
need for an increase in the Fee.
When the proposed referendum 
came up at a recent Senate 
meeting. I had been in the process 
of drawing up a proposal outlining 
the need for an increase in the 
Activities Fee as well as 
conducting a survey of 
comparable schools fees. Several 
members of the Senate knew 
I was doing this research well in 
advance, yet none of them ap
proached me, for any information 
I had. In addition they failed to 
approach any of the organizations 
which this action will directly af
fect. Of the approximately 20 
schools I polled, which were com
parable in size of student body, 
tuition, and academic standing, 
CMUs had one of the two 
lowest Activities Fees. Generally, 
they varied between $25 and 
$126.50 per year, with the over
whelming majority falling 
between $55 and $70 per year;
The following view concerning the 
Activities Fee was written by 
John J. Alexander, Director of the 
Activities Board (AB).
On December 5, the Student Sen
ate will put a referendum before 
the student body concerning an 
increase in the Student Activities 
Fee, which is a manditory fee for 
all C-MU students , charged on a 
per semester basis. Currently, the 
fee stands at $15 per semester or 
$30 per year. The student Senate 
is vested with the authority and 
the responsibility of distributing 
the money among the organiza
tions which it recognizes as 
funded.
The $30 fee, as it stands now, was 
increased from $25 two years ago 
and had been at that level for the 
previous six years. So the increase 
thus far has been minimal.
Being a member of the Activities 
Board (AB), Im very familiar
full of sarcasm and half-truths. 
This single students bitterness 
with his own experiences that he 
has had at Carnegie Mellon show
ed plainly. We often see such let
ters and the results of them are 
only detrimental. Countering let
ters then appear, each filled with 
similar bitter feelings and short
sightedness.
The standard example of this 
on our campus is the argument be
tween artists and the scien
tists. Nothing could be more ab
surd than to argue this issue. 
There is no artist who is without 
some scientific qualities; there is 
no scientist who is devoid of an 
artistic perspective. Every person 
has both heart and mind; integra
tive and analytical qualities be
long to us all. In each person, the 
balances may differ, but the di
chotomy allows both of our sides 
to be enhanced by the other.
This university prides itself in 
its ability to produce graduates 
who are well trained in their 
majors. But we must not be decieved by this. A truly superior 
professional knows that behind all 
of the techniques which comprise 
his craft, behind the surface details 
which diffeientiate his field of 
study from all of the others, there 
lies an underlying artistic quality 
which gives the techniques mean
ing and cohesiveness. The faculty, 
administration, and students are 
all in this together. The students 
recieve only that which is offered 
them by the faculty. But the facul
ty cannot teach in a vacuum; the 
students must be receptive to the 
knowledge.
The era of pain and destructive 
opinions must end. It is time for 
us all to act in a mature manner 
towards each other, and not get 
lost in childishness. If Carnegie 
Mellon is to grow, then we must 
begin to treat it with positive at
titudes. Its easy to be bitter, im
mature and disappointed. But 
once we start to move in the right 
direction it will be even easier to 
let go and allow ourselves to enjoy 
a supportive and inspirational 
environment.
Eddie Capian
Junior, Music
with the soaring costs of quality 
entertainment which, at times, 
increases far more rapidly than 
the inflation rate. One of the 
major complaints AB continually 
recieves is that the groups we get 
are not big name although in 
many cases they become big name 
and therefore unaffordable soon 
after: groups such as Renaissance, 
Pure Prairie League, Chuck 
Mangione, Kenny Rankin, Steve 
Goodman and Billy Joel. Its 
obvious why Im supporting an 
increase in the Activities Fee.
But there are other organizations 
that are feeling the same sort of 
financial pressure that AB is. The 
Tartan, for example, needs up
dated equipment. The Thistle 
could be entirely funded by a fee 
of $7.60 per student; this could 
be an addition to the Activities 
Fee  a Yearbook Fee.
There are many other groups
"...to make the world..." 
Editor:
When I read the letter by Mr. 
Okunewick in last weeks TAR
TAN, the first thought that struck 
me was how a person with that 
sort of attitude had ever made it 
to CMU. First of all, a University 
is a place where there is a multi
tude of subjects, unlike a College 
where one subject is taught. A 
person who doesnt believe in the 
right for a certain area of subjects 
to be taught doesnt belong at 
Carnegie-Mellon University.
Take, for instance, his attitude 
on history: Frankly, I couldnt 
give a damn about what happened 
in the last century. Whether he 
knows it or not, many of our 
wonderful technological discov
eries (including calculus, which he 
seems to be so enamored with) 
happened in or before the last 
century. There are whole areas of 
science devoted to the study of 
history, including archaeology, ge
ology, paleontology anthropology 
astronomy, physics, and chemis
try. The study of the past is vital, 
because the present only exists for 
an instant.
Mr. Okunewick is also wrong 
when he says that to spend your 
college years studying Shake
speare is a waste. The reason 
people study any subject, be it 
Shakespeare or calculus, is to gain 
knowledge. In the case of Shake
speare, it may be the knowledge 
of how to write an effective play; 
in calculus, it is how to solve 
mathematical problems. Actually, 
it is probably more important that 
a person who wants to be a play
wright study Shakespeare, than it 
is for a person who wants to be a 
physicist to study calculus. The 
calculus one learns as an under
grad is ages old, and can be found 
in any one of hundreds of books. 
However, one cant simply look 
up the way to write a good play. 
As anyone who has ever tried can 
tell you, that is something that 
must be internalized.
My major complaint is that 
Mr. Okunewick is fundamentally 
wrong: Technology does not exist 
for Technologys sake. The reason 
Technology exists is to make the 
world a more comfortable and 
enjoyable place to live. The light 
bulb is an excellent example of
technology that has made the 
world much more comfortable. 
When Thomas Edison and his 
staff invented the incandescent 
light, he didnt do it so that now, 
100 years later, we could stand 
around and say, Gee, Edisons 
light bulb is great! I wonder what 
we can use it for? When the light 
bulb was invented, there was al
ready a clearly defined use for it.
Photography is an area where 
high technology has made the 
world more enjoyable. Photogra
phy became practical around 
1839. Now, 140 years and mil
lions of dollars later, anyone can 
go out and snap a picture in less 
than a millionth of the time it 
took back then. This, I think, is 
Mr. Okunewicks major mistake: 
He believes that Technology can 
stand on its own. Technology was 
created to serve society, and any
one who doesnt understand that 
shouldnt be going to CMU.
Robert Z usman
Photography Editor, TARTAN
Physics, ^2
"... learn many lessons." 
Editor:
Upon first reading the letter by 
Phil Okunewick in the November 
13 TARTAN, I thought' that it 
was a cleverly conceived, if clum
sily written, satire by an H&SS stu
dent, mocking a certain immature 
attitudes which occasionally at
tempts to represent itself as typi
cal of CIT. But a second reading 
and a look in the C-Book convinced 
me that the little boy was actually 
serious. A response, then [sic]:
The second sentence in your 
letter, Phil, shows that you need 
some work in remedial English. 
Perhaps the H&SS Communica
tions Skills Center would be willing 
to help you, despite your pompous 
attitude.
The third paragraph in your 
letter contains the following re
markable pair of sentences: 
Frankly, I couldnt give a damn 
about what happened in the last 
century. Let us not forget the 
past, lest we repeat it. You know 
if you tried programming the 
equivalent of that pair of sentences 
into a computer, the compiler 
would vomit the nonsense back 
into your lap. Perhaps you should 
enroll in one of Professor Coveys
elementary logic courses, despite 
the fact that you seem to consider 
yourself above the study of philo
sophy.
As you observe, Twenty years 
ago, a popular science fiction 
theme was Men in Space. Now, 
its a fact. In some small way, 
this might be true, though the 
problems involved with actually 
living in space seem (at least to 
this unschooled layman) to be a 
long way from solved. But there 
are other examples you could 
have chosen to show just how 
much good the Technologists (sit 
decus eis) have done for the human 
(read white, mainly) race. 
Allow me to suggest one:
Forty years ago, the prospect of 
the world being destroyed by fire 
was an image drawn only by cer
tain passages in the Bible and a 
few other idle books. Today, it is 
something with which all of us 
live on a daily basis. It is so real, 
in fact, that it could be precipita
ted by accident or mistakein less 
time than it would take you to 
debug a computer program.
If it is true without Technolo
gy there would have been no 
Andrew Carnegie to get rich on the 
labor of others and go on to found 
this notable school, then it is also 
true that without the same 
Technology it might be possible 
to drink, without fear of contract
ing cancer, from the water that 
flows in the three rivers of which 
this city seems so proud. And it 
might not be necessary for the 
City Fathers to consider evacuating 
the downtown area every time the 
wind stops blowing.
To paraphrase a short observa
tion by John Barth: the wisdom 
to recognize and halt always fol
lows, at a considerable distance, 
the technical ability to pollute 
beyond rescue. The reason for this 
sad state of affairs is that certain 
trained seals of technology, of 
which you appear to be one, are 
often blind to the fact that human 
beings need to learn many lessons, 
not those of Technology alone.
Fortunately, not all technolo
gists are as narrow as you, Phil, 
which leads me to conclude by re
jecting out of hand your notion 
that the idea is to strike back 
at all of CIT.
views
approximatly double of what our 
fee is  and we all wonder why 
there is never anything to do.
A $20 addition to the Acti
vities Fee would mean better 
concerts, more lectures like Jane 
Fonda and John Dean, less ex
pensive yearbooks, etc. On the 
other hand, you might buy one 
textbook, a T-square, one fourth 
of one calculator or a half-decent 
date. Its your choice.
In any case the referendum ori^ 
December 5 dirctly affects all of 
you. So do vote. I encourage you 
to vote for the $20 increase plus 
$7.60 (write-in for the yearbook 
fee) increase in the Activ
ities Fee. If there are any ques
tions regarding this referendum or 
Activities Board, Feel free to con
tact me directly, or through the 
Tartan . Get Involved. Vote Dec
ember 5. Its your money!
I realize that this letter could 
get me entangled in an ongoing 
controversy, and while I could 
elect to spend my time in this 
way. I prefer not to (to coin a 
phrase). So just sign me,
Bartleby 
"Science and humanities;" 
Editor:
This letter is in response to the 
letter by Phil Okunewick which 
appeared in last weeks TARTAN. 
First of all, I think that it is ridi
culous to compare the benefits 
brought to society by science and 
humanities; they are two com
pletely different areas, and not 
really suitable for a direct compar
ison. Now, here is a counter-argument to each of Phils argu
ments of last week:
EconomicsObviously, it 
doesnt take an economist to tell 
us that our economy is in trouble. 
However, I seriously doubt that 
any CIT student can say why the 
economy is in trouble, or, more 
importantly, what can be done to 
help get it back on its feet, with
out taking courses in Economics. 
That is what the four years study
ing economics are for.
HistoryQuite possibly, part 
of the reason that this country is 
in the shape it is in is precisely be
cause no one remembers and 
learns from the past. If Phil Okunewick wants to repeat all of 
the mistakes that people have al
ready made, that is fine with me, 
But I would prefer to learn from 
other peoples mistakes.
Tops-B-I am using the compu
ter presently for my history 
course, Origins of the Modern 
World. Phil complains about the 
amount of space H&SS students 
get. Well, considering that for my 
project in History I have to edit a 
70 page file, I dont think I could 
manage with less than 100 pages 
of storage. How many CIT stu
dents have 70 page files?
About whether Calculus is 
more important than Shakespeare, 
I believe that it is precisely be
cause we dont have to spend all 
our energy on technology and 
production that life' is really 
worth living [sic]. How would life 
be if all we could do was integrate 
and differentiate, and had noth
ing to read but Universty Physics'!

---------------------------------------------------

more letters
Last, but certainly not least, if 
it hadnt been for humanities ma
jors, there wouldnt have been an 
English language for Phil to write 
his letter with [sic]. 1 suppose 
then he would have written it all 
in binary?
David Zalkin 
Freshman, MIS
"...learn to be better people,...' 
Editor:
Phil, you misinformed, mis
anthropic insidious pig:
Youve missed your point 
now its my turn. However, Im 
not striking back at all the 
H&SS dummies or the CIT 
nerdsIm commenting on all 
the close-minded fools who write 
such irrationally based letters-tothe-editor.
First of all, I appreciate the 
value of good arguments. I be
lieve that they broaden the views 
and minds of the participants, 
and they provide for a means of 
communication and ultimately, 
personal growth and apprecia
tion of others. I find it annoy
ing and a waste of my time to 
read those bitter and distasteful 
letters-to-the-editor written by 
pople who cant and/or dont 
want to understand ideas op
posing their own; your letter 
epitomized such narrow-minded
ness.
Second, Im tired of the issues 
which some people on this cam
pus find controversial. Its really 
boring to read such inane argu
ments as which college has 
smarter people, more important 
subject matter, or nicer buildings. 
The intellectual and ethical level 
of most CMU students is too high 
to be bothered with such nonsen
sical, stereotypical thoughts such 
as yours.
Furthermore, I am a CIT stu
dent who has chosen my major 
because Ive felt it necessary to 
develop my analytical, problem
solving skills for my chosen ca
reer path. I admire the interests 
and skills of those in other col
leges (and Im even related to one 
of those admirable people!) sim
ply because I know this: In order 
for us to learn to be better people 
and to make our world better, we 
must integrate our technological, 
aesthetic, and humanitarian ap
proaches to achieve our goals. 
This requires an interdependence, 
reliance, and acceptance of others.
In conclusion, I feel that if we 
all concentrated on improving our 
interpersonal quality point aver
age as well as our academic QPA, 
we would be more well-rounded, 
happier, and better able to learn 
from and live with others. (And 
we might even have some more 
stimulating and thought-provok
ing letters-to-the-editor).
Jane Ellen Giamporcaro
Senior, Mechanical Engineering 
"... a place for everyone:" 
Editor:
Some are born great, some 
achieve greatness, and some have 
greatness thrust upon them. There 
I was, thinking I was just a cog in 
a machine, when, thanks to the 
TARTAN, I discovered that as a 
CIT student, I have something re
sembling a godlike status. Well, 
since Im an electrical engineer, 
which Im sure everyone will agree 
gives me the greatest of the great 
callings, I guess I can do nothing 
but good by passing on some wis
dom to the rest of the Universe 
City [sic].
Why must people be so chauvanistic about their own stations in 
life? I was practically told that 
our pocket calculators should be 
placed on golden pedestals as re
presenting the pinnacle of human 
achievement. Then I was told that 
the (solar) light I read the TAR
TAN by and the (grass) chair I sat 
in were the products of technolo
gy. Jeepers, Mr. Wilson [sic].
We dont have to take things to 
such extremes. There have been 
accomplishments and failures in 
all fields of endeavor. Something 
does not have to be a physical de
vice to be important. Calculators 
are only important to those who 
want to calculate (I find that the 
light from mine is insufficient for 
reading Shakespeare by). The en
gineer designs tools, and the artist 
and social scientist do their best 
to use the tools wisely.
As an undergraduate, I learned 
a lot about myself and the world 
through social science and liberal 
arts courses. This knowledge has 
been invaluable to my personal 
growth. Incidentally, I found 
about the same percentage of easy 
courses in both engineering and 
liberal arts courses. I havent ta
ken any H&SS courses, so I cant 
vouch for the CMU liberal arts 
school, but I will say that people 
cant judge the offerings of a de
partment unless theyve taken the 
best it has to offer. (I remember 
very clearly the phenomenon of 
engineers rating and taking liber
al arts electives according to their 
grade to work ratios.)
Its very amusing to read that 
engineers should get an extra qual
ity point so that 2.5 engineers 
get 3.5s and, presumably 3.5 
CIT majors get 4.5s. Is that
because Hewlett-Packard will 
mistakenly select a 3.5 cume psy
chology major over a 2.5 cume 
electrical engineer for designing 
its integrated circuits?
Can you imagine a world ruled 
by engineers? There are few 
things worse than living life ac
cording to a set of equations. Ask 
Fyodor Dostoevsky (who, inci
dentally, was trained as an en
gineer).
Quite simply, theres a place 
for just about everyone in our 
world, and a persons importance 
should be measured not by what 
his position is, but by how well 
he fills it. It may be fun to put 
down one group or another, but 
lets not get carried away.
Tom Skrobala 
Graduate Student-EE
"...the CMU experience."
Editor:
So this is the CMU experience, 
arguing who has it harder in class? 
Amazing, isnt it, how the admin
istration tries to tell incoming 
freshman, like me, that the CMU 
experience is concerned with 
professionalism, scholarship and 
the ideals of education.
Excuse me H&SS and CIT, but 
it is time for MIS to whine a little. 
H&SS tries to decide what hap
pened, who made it happen, will 
it happen, and who cares if it 
does? CIT, which doesnt care 
what, when, or where anything 
happened, takes time-worn for
mulas and ancient theories to 
build something to sell. H&SS 
then tries to explain the impact 
of this product on society. CIT 
then thanks H&SS for the free 
advertising (even though it has no 
what idea advertising is), and puts 
it back on the market. This
cycle continues ad infinitum.
MIS, however, is involved 
with constantly increasing the 
worlds knowledge (not 
opinions or goods for moneygrabbing capitalists). As for 
difficulty, what is more dif
ficult than formulating new 
knowledge from experiment and 
thought? Anyone with half a 
brain can design saleable goods 
or form opinions about man
kind. It takes a special type of 
genius to belong to MIS.
As for CFA. . .make me laugh. 
I have goldfish that can sing bet
ter than most people around here.
P.S.Anyone stupid enough 
to have taken any of this ser
iously, probably found validity in 
the previous letters as well.
Franklin P. Reese III 
MIS
Start 
Something
It has become evident that a 
lot of the controversies that excite 
this campus start right here, in the 
letters-to-the-editor section of the 
TARTAN.
The letters section is a vital 
source of controversy. Your opin
ions, ideas, complaints, etc. are 
read by 5500 TARTAN readers 
every week.
If you write a letter-to-the-editor (and theres a good chance 
that youll be heard by the people 
youre trying to reach), just type 
it, double-spaced, and mail it 
through Campus Mail to the TAR
TAN, Box 17. As long as letters 
are signed and coherently written 
well print them all. Names will 
be withheld upon request.
4
4
4THESE PEOPLE ALREADY ORDERED THEIR
?
?
?
4
41980 THISTLE
?
?4
4Joel FischLeslie HershbergRobert ReidDan GarberBeth Harris
?
?4Robert Henstenburg Jon HaydenElaine SethThomas KulikowskiJames Garrison?4
4David DuncanDavid ZadorSteve BreedenDavid KrofcheckDavid Paul?
4Gary W. WosWilson BoyceKevin RitterDarryl BuckBraidi Jackson .
?
4Noreen LeusDave RadackSuzanne SprungerNancy GregerEdmund Flanders
?
4Andy CummisMolly McCloskeyPhillip ThompsonJanet H. DanekRalph David?4Michelle PeetzRose DubinGary MatzJoe MarottiJohn Samish?4Tim VernonMichael StraubKaren WiederhornCraig WagnerDonna Rogosky?4Mark NewbornDoug WrightRussell L. CypherJohn BobakCarl Gentile?4Dave MongeanBrian JekerMichael MerrittElaine GarberMichael Pitchford?
4Laurie HollickTim TrageserKathy KrummertRay CookKaren Stevens?4Kathy GlennSuzanne EckertSDCMary Jane BoeschCyril Hunter?4
4Joseph DeckElam MonteverdePaul SchoffKathy MeadRandy Mooney?
4Kevin MillerLydia AndrisNancy LefkoMorton KligermanGregory Kramer
?
4Bonnie JanowskiChi OmegaJoshua LavinskyRobert RogersPaulSendro?
4llene SteinerJoyce Sawa?4
4HOW ABOUT YOU?
?
?4
4Stop by the Skibo Desk and order yours before?
?4
4Thanksgiving break, or right when you get back.?
?4
4
4(No orders will be taken after December 7)
?
?
4
41980 THISTLE
?
?
?4
4
4
4
4
Priceless Only Costs S 75.50?
?
?
?
?

---------------------------------------------------

November 20, 1979TARTANPage 5
Student Dorm Council Space
i
by Ken Kulak
The major issue in the last two meetings 
of the Student Dormitory Council has been 
the consideration of the Administrations 
response to the petition by residents of the 
Margaret Morrison apartments.
Two major options constitute the for
mal response written by Gerry Dalton, Di
rector of Housing. In brief, anything which 
SDC recommends as restitution will be 
paid, but it will result in higher charges for 
the 1980-81 academic year because Hous
ing will charge everyone else for the penal
ty payments this year (a proposed total of 
$19,000, with $100 payment to each stu
dent). If SDC refuses to accept this ar
rangement, another possibility is to sue 
the University.
Announcements over the two weeks in
cluded the installation of the Morewood 
Gardens antenna the week of the 26th, the 
installation of the Hamerschlag vending 
machines, and the so on-to-arrive Doherty 
ping-pong table. Committee changes in
cluded the formation of a committee to 
study the relationship between graduate 
students and SDC and also the establish
ment of the Vending Machines committee 
as a permanent SDC committee.
It was also announced that the follow
ing areas need representatives: Boss (1), Dc 
herty (1), McGill (1), Morewood Gardens 
D-tower (floors 3 and 4), and B-tower 
(floors 6 and 7). Elections will be held af
ter Thankgiving. If no representative is 
elected for an area, then that constituen
cys RSAF funds will be frozen.
Important dates on the SDC calendar 
are:
December 4: Study break, 9-10 PM, 
on the Hill
December 8: Christmas Dance, Skibo 
Ballroom
December 13: Study break, 9-10 PM, 
Panther Hollow 
The next SDC meeting will be Novem
ber 30, at 7:00 in the Wherrett Room, Ski
bo.
by Linda Dickerson
Representatives of the Gideons Inter
national, an association of business and 
professional men organized to promote 
the Gospel, appeared on campus Tuesday, 
November 13. Originally granted permis
sion to locate an information booth to 
distribute bibles in Skibo, the group 
quickly infiltrated other areas, stopping 
students at every approach to the academic 
buildings.
Swank, Dean of Students, who has 
jurisdiction over such matters, was con
cerned by the groups infringement on the 
rules he had previously established for their 
conduct. He explained, The only 
permission I give groups of that kind is 
to set up booths in Skibo. Solicitors not 
abiding by Swanks instructions are forced 
to leave the premises.
Nonetheless, these solicitors always have 
the option of moving to public thorofares, 
where CMU Security has no jurisdiction.
This is the route the Gideons opted after 
being informed of the illegality of dis
seminating non-university materials to all 
students in all areas of the campus.
In the past, soliciting on campus has not 
been a serious problem, and neither Dean 
Swank nor security officials forsee any 
major problems in the near future. At one 
time or another Hare Krishnas, magazine 
salesmen, kitchen utensils salesman, and 
now the Gideons have all appeared on 
campus in order to distribute their own 
information.
Securitys and the administrations 
dominant interest is to ensure that students 
are not ripped off by these intruders. 
Provided that they confine their activities 
to a predeterminated area, and they are a 
legitimate concern, most groups are per
mitted on campus. However, because 
CMU is a private institution, soliciting is 
discouraged more than it might normally 
be at state or public universitities.
UNI I System 
Piogiammmci/ 
Analyst
TASC's widely acknowledged leadership in high technology systems engineering and analysis has depended greatly on the knowledge, skill and achievements of our Computer Sciences staff. The right person will:Apply in-depth UNIX knowledge to our PDP-11 and VAX-based computer systems. Develop systems and application software for projects in data base management, signal processing, image processing and color graphics. Modify and enhance UNIX to increase its capabilities in support of the above applications. MS in EE or CS desiredWe offer a salary, benefits, and profit sharing program which reflect and encourage the superior performance upon which TASC s reputation for scientific and business excellence has been built . To learn more about this opening, and your future with our unusual organization, please write or call collect:Dan U. Stewart (617)944-6850
TASC
The Analytic Sciences Corporation
6 Jacob Way, Reading, Mass. 01867
US Citizenship Required 
An Equal Opportunity Employer M<F
ri *N*trni sen n< f s cnPO<>m*
Gideons only had permission 
to distribute in Skibo
Senate Report
by Edna Kunkel
New senators were welcomed to their 
first meeting as senators at the November 
13th Student Senate meeting.
Scott Miller reported that he and John 
Alexander had met with President Cyert, 
who agreed that a committee should be 
formed to investigate the possibilities for a 
student activities center. Miller will chair 
this committee.
Elections for officers and committee 
chairpersons were held and the following 
persons were voted in:
Ralph Sherman  Senate Chairperson 
Nina Houska  Senate Vice-chairperson 
Daniel Nichols  Rules Committee 
Chairperson
Mary Ann Lawton  Finance Commit
tee Chairperson
Constance Smith  General Campus and 
Information Chairperson
246 pints of 
blood donated
by Doug Kirsop
CMU students donated 246 pints of 
blood at the annual blood drive held last 
Wednesday and Thursday in the Morewood 
Gardens Rec room. The drive was held by 
the Central Blood Bank of Pittsburgh, and 
sponsored by Residence Life.
Claudia Geraci, Director of Residence 
Life, said, The people that came are real
ly great  both the donors and the studdents who came to help out. Organiza
tions that assisted in the blood drive were; 
A Phi O, CIA, Lambda Sigma, RAs, SDC 
and Student Senate. She also expressed 
thanks to the individual students who 
stopped by to help.
Although short of her personal goal of 
300 pints, Geraci said that the Blood Bank 
people were happy with the turn-out. The 
blood drive is especially important at this 
time of year because the number of overall 
donors begins to slack off, but the need for 
blood does not.
Two years ago, 300 pints were donated, 
and last years blood drive brought in 
about 250 pints. To increase this number, 
Geraci is considering the addition of 
another drive in the Spring, or extending 
the length of the drive from two to three 
days.
COLLEGE STUDENTS within one year of completing B.S., M.S., or Ph.D. in physical sciences, mathematics or engineering. Financial aid available tor those candidates completing final year of degree with subsequent training period in nuclear theory and prototype reactor operation Research and design positions also exist. Receive $700 per month up to 10 month* plus other benefits on your way toward achieving your degree and o commission in the naval reserves. Competitive applicants must possess U.S. citizenship and be under 28 years of age. Send resume id college tran scripts to Mr. Dave Leonard. Suite 711, 1000 Liber ty Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15222 Telephone 800/242 3736.
PRATT & WHITNEY AIRCRAFT GROUP
A division ofUNITED TECHNOLOGIES
will be
CAMPUS
DECEMBER 11, 1979
to interview candidates 
for attractive opportunities 
in HIGH TECHNOLOGY
Consult your Placement Office 
for degree and field of study 
requirements
An Equal Opportunity Employer
UNITED TECHNOLOGIES

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6TARTANNovember 20, 1979
Center for Study of Translation uses
by Kathy Krummert
Translation is a more difficult process 
than many people would imagine, and 
automating translation is accompanied by 
problems that few are equipped to handle. 
CMUs Center for the Study of Translation, 
however, has developed a system which 
could prove to be a major breakthrough in 
automated translation in the United States.
On November 1,1979, a six-month trial 
period ended for work on CAHT (Compu
ter Aids for Human Translators). CAHT is 
a more comprehensive approach to work 
begun in 1975 at CMU (the TARGET pro
ject). Though similar systems exist in 
Europe, this is the first of its kind to be 
implemented in research stages in the Uni
ted States. This system combines the know
r I I i i 1 I I
ledge and skill of the human translator 
with state-of- the-art computer technology. 
In doing so, it creates a set of*tools that 
enable translators to perform thdir jobs as 
accurately and efficiently as possible with
out continual reference to colleagues, dic
tionaries, or various commercially available 
translation-machines. Also, translation is 
not inexpensive. Because of the time and 
expertise involved, cost can very easily be
come a considerable financial consideration 
A major difficulty for translators is the 
availability of updated resources, especially 
in business and industry, where new terms 
are continually being introduced and others 
evolving in meaning. CAHT, because it is a 
computer system, is capable of holding mil-, 
lions of entries and various other resources,
i Ii i i i i i i
normally found in volumes and volumes of 
reference material. CAHT also allows con
tinual updating of this material with ease. 
A system such as this could expedite and 
cut the cost of translation.
Co-directing the project are Alexander 
Andreyewsky, who came to CMU last 
spring with business, translation and aca
demic background, and Donald McCraken 
of the Computer Science Department. 
Aided by staff members Andy Strazds and 
Rolfe Stange, work intensified over the 
summer months to seek support from 
national and international corporations to 
further develop the system. Andreyewsky, 
recognized as an expert in the area of trans
lation automation, attended a closed work
shop of machine-translation in Brussels in 
September.
A highlight in the Centers efforts took 
place on October 19, at a conference they 
sponsored at Mellon Institute titled Trans
lation in the 1980s: Problems and Solu
tions. Over fifty guests attended, most of
computer
them from the United States and Canada, 
representing various government organi
zations, the Pan American Health Organi
zation, the World Bank, the International 
Monetary Fund, the United Nations and 
representatives from more than thirty 
American corporations.
After a welcoming speech by CMU 
President Richard M. Cyert, speakers from 
various organizations involved in transla
tion activities discussed the need for auto
mated translation and the impact it could 
have on their work. Allan Newell, CMU 
Professor of Computer Science, described 
research going on at CMU and the ZOG 
Project he was instrumental in developing. 
ZOG is a system used as a cornerstone in 
CAHT. Dean Lee Gregg discussed the 
Document Design Center, which interacts 
with the work of the Center for the Study 
of Translation. A major event of the con
ference was the CAHT prototype demon
stration, the first prototype of a fail-safe 
computer-aided translation system.
ALONE AND PREGNANT?
A caring, confidential friend. 
LIFELINE. DOWNTOWN PITTSBURGH 
562-0343. Free Pregnancy Testing. 
Evening Hours Available
(NNor d(es
information systems; information manage
ment and communications systems; ground 
transportation and more. Much more.
At either location, opportunities constantly 
arise to challenge your intelligence, your 
knowledge, your motivation. In search of 
solutions, MITRK people use the t(x>ls of 
systems engineering and analysis. If this type 
of atmosphere intrigues you and if you have 
a degree (or are about to receive one) in elec
trical engineering, computer science, math, 
physics, or economics, wed like to know 
more about you. See your Placement Office 
to set up an on-campus interview, or send 
vour resume di recti v to:
Jerome P. McKinnon 
The MITRE Corporation 
Bedford, MA 01730
Ronald S. Hill 
W ashington Center 
The MITRE Corporation 
1S20 Dollev Madison Blvd 
McLean, VA 22102
MURE will be at 
Carnegie Mellon on December 13,1979
There's a big difference. The MITRE Cor
poration has two major locations, with 11 
technical divisions and 63 departments. Our 
1573 members of the technical staff provide 
systems solutions to Federal, state, regional 
and local governmental agencies.There's plen
ty of opportunity to grow in responsibility.
Many companies offer you a job which can 
broaden your career. But when the challenge 
is gone, most professionals seek a new com
pany with a new job and a new challenge. At 
MITRE we recognize this need for new chal
lenges and new opportunities. With dozens 
of sponsors and scores of projects in a wide 
variety of technologies we offer the oppor
tunity to CHANCE JOBS WITHOUT 
CHANCING COMPANIES. The direction 
of your career at MITRE is up to you. We'll 
help you stay on track through our staff 
development programs. We offer 100'v tuition 
prepayment and company paid professional 
growth seminars.
At our facility in Bedford, Massachusetts 
(just outside Boston), were looking at all 
kinds of command, control and communica
tions problems as technical advisor to the Air 
Eorce's Electronic Systems Division.
At our McLean, Virginia facility |iist out
side Washington, D.C.), we're not onl\ work
ing on defense and military systems but also 
on signiHcent problems m air traffic control; 
energy resources and the-environment; civil
U!M
EX

---------------------------------------------------

features
Bob Kennedy speaks frankly about himself
Bobby Kennedy, the quarterback, in action every Saturday, guides the Tartan offense.
by Robert Harris
Every Saturday Robert Charles 
Kennedy, is the starting quarterback of the 
Cam egi e-Mel Ion University Tartans.
Kennedy, a senior, has skillfully led the 
successful Tartans to another post season 
N.C.A.A. division III berth.
Bob, whose mother is a secretary in Hunt 
Library, is a triple major in AMS, Eco
nomics, and History. He has a 3.1 QPA. 
Kennedy is a Central Catholic High School 
graduate and National Honor Society mem
ber. He is reserved, introspective, and 
endowed with a dry sense of humor.
Bob graciously consented to an inter
view with Robert Harris of the TARTAN 
on Nov. 9. The following is some of the text 
of Bob Kennedys crisp responses. 
TARTAN: Describe what you look like. 
Kennedy (quietly): Handsome ashelLDont 
print that. Im six feet two and one half 
inches tall. No one includes the half inch 
except me. Im about one ninety-five, sort 
of thin, more thin than anything else. 
Everyone tells me Im very Irish looking. 
Whenever I meet older people, you know, 
like mothers and fathers of people I know, 
they say - Oh boy are you Irish - with black 
hair and light complexion and all. 
TARTAN: The ultimate quarterback image 
is - cool head under fire. It supposedly 
represents how the person is naturally and 
thats what makes the born quarterback. 
Do you think thats a good assessment of 
you personally?
Kennedy (a pained expression on his face): 
No, not really. 1 may appear to be, but its 
not completely accurate; its part of an 
illusion. I probably do it purposely to act 
reserved. Im not acting. I am reserved. Im 
just saying there are other sides to me. Im 
not always the picture of coolness. There 
are times that I get upset and shaken a 
little bit, but its generally accurate. 
TARTAN: What are your life time goals? 
Kennedy (leaning back): Satisfaction.
Money isnt so important to me. Its im
portant to me only in the sense that money 
is important to everybody. Its not an end 
in and of itself. I would much rather be 
satisfied with what Im doing.
Id like to be in a situation where I can 
contribute to whomever Im working for. 
In regards to the company I might be 
working for in the furure, Id like to be a 
vital part, an important part. Id like for 
them to come to me for my contribution. 
TARTAN: Your opinion of CMU? Any 
particular rights or wrongs with CMU? 
Kennedy (pondering): Im pretty sat
isfied with it, but Im not completely 
satisfied with AMS and Economics.
AMS teaches you to be a jack of all 
trades rather than a master of one. It 
teaches you everything, but it doesnt 
allow you to master any specific aspect of 
business.
TARTAN: What specific aspect of business 
are you trying to master?
Kennedy(crisply): Production. Thats
what Im trying to master. Ive taken one 
course in production and I'll be taking 
another one. Thats the type of job Im in
terviewing for now, production super
vision, production management.
I would like to add that AMS has been 
restructured these past four years. Making 
freshman take a CIT track or an H&SS 
track is an improvement.
1 havent had any of the sort of AMS 
professors that have been the subject of 
controversy in the past two years. This 
year Ive had all quality professors like 
Tom Kerr, and I've had Maryanne Onan. 
She's a really intelligent lady. I've been 
satisfied with the professors this year and 
I think AMS is improving and it's going 
to get better.
TARTAN: What do you think of the CMU
student body?
Kennedy: I do think theres just a bit 
too much professionalism in the student 
body. People are concerned too much 
with getting a job. They arent well-rounded enough; however, I dont think any 
institution can develop a well-rounded 
person. I think if someone is looking to 
become a well-rounded person they have to 
develop themselves.
TARTAN: Why do you play football? 
Kennedy (laughing): Why do 1 play foot
ball? Hell, I dont know. My knees are 
sore. My shoulders are sore. I have to 
practice two hours a day. I dont know 
why I play. Is it worth it?
TARTAN: Thats pretty funny. I never 
expected that answer.
Kennedy (ruminating): Why do I play
football? Because its fun.
TARTAN: You just said youre getting
killed.
Kennedy (laughing): Well, I have to say
what they want me to say. (Kennedy with 
a very serious expression) No, I enjoy it. 
When you do a cost-benefit analysis of the 
advantages and disadvantages of playing 
football, for me its beneficial.
There are a lot of things inherent in 
competition that can improve a person,
make a person more well-rounded. Its not 
just football, its any competitive sport. As 
far as football, I just enjoy it, the game 
itself.
TARTAN: What do think about when 
youre on the football field? 
Kennedy(staring at the ceiling): There 
are thousands of things going through my 
mind when were on the field and even be
fore we come onto the field. I have to 
think about what the plays going to be, 
where the formation is going to be. Most 
of these things come in when the play 
comes in.
TARTAN: You dont call your own plays? 
Kennedy (concentrating): No, I some
times get a chance to call audibles. I 
havent that much, but theres always been 
the potential to call them. Mostly I worry 
about down and distance. If a play is bad, 
if a play doesnt work and we get a loss or 
we dont go anywhere, I have to see howfar we have to go and then tell everyone 
that. I try to prepare them for the situa
tion thats going to be coming up on the 
next play. (Bob is thinking to himself and 
laughing) Our huddles are crazy, especially 
towards the end of the game.
TARTAN: What happens at the beginning 
of the game?
Kennedy: Well, at the beginning of the 
game everyone is real highstrung, uptight 
and everybodys ready to (punching his 
open left hand with his right fist) pound 
somebody.
In the first quarter once we find out, 
and once the offensive line especially finds 
out, what the defense is doing, theyre 
all talking back to each other-He went this 
way and he went this way. We have got to 
do this and weve got to do that. And I 
just stand back there and listen to them. 
Its crazy. The thing about it though is... 
they know what theyre doing, they 
really do, mostly.
Our huddles towards the end of the 
game, theyre hilarious. Once the game is 
in hand, and were just running down the 
clock, everyones jagging each other. 
Gasior will run the ball and the line will let 
him get killed. Hell get killed, hes lying 
there, and everyone will laugh at him. I 
let on him and tell him hes slow.
There was one time - this is a serious 
situation - we were leading, but we werent 
assured of a win yet. We were going to
wards the other teams end zone. It was a 
very important play coming up and I tried 
to be very serious. I came into the huddle 
and I said- All right, we have to go two 
yards. Weve got to get in on this play. 
Weve got to fire off the ball and knock 
them back. And I look up ... and every 
ones laughing at me. Theyre all smiling at 
me. Theyre like - sure just call the play. 
So I just started laughing. It was a real 
serious situation and everybody in the 
huddle was laughing.
TARTAN: Is there enough enthusiasm
on the part of the student body regarding 
the football team?
Kennedy: There is some interest. 
There could be more. Id like to see a lot 
more interest. Id like to see our stadium 
filled every Saturday with people crowded 
on the hillside as well as the grandstands. 
TARTAN: Does it help you? 
Kennedy(sitting up): jt sure does. It
really does. Youd be surprised - just 
to know that that many people support 
you. Not that they have to make all this 
noise and stuff, but just to know that 
theyre there. That helps, it really does.
TARTAN: Do you think youll get to the 
Stagg Bowl?
Kennedy: I cant really say whether we
will get there or not. I think we have a 
good chance, a much better chance this 
year. Were a much better team this year 
than we were last year. I expect to get 
there. Ill be very disappointed if we dont.
Bobby Kennedy, the student, a triple major in AMS, Economics and History.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8TARTAN November 20, 1979
Politics and Policy
The economic role of the PUC
by Bob Gleeson and Chris Fostel
In the early 1900s several new indus
tries rapidly grew out of infancy to become 
economic forces. These new companies 
produced clean water, electricity, and 
natural gas and delivered their products 
straight to their customers buildings via 
pipes and wires. This meant that ser
vice extended only as far as a companys 
pipes or wires.
At first there were only a few such 
companies and they were so small that 
many served only a few city blocks. 
But as they grew they began building 
parallel pipes and wire to extend their 
service and to compete with each other 
for markets. Before this duplication of 
effort got out of hand, people saw the 
analogy between these new firms and the 
railroads. The history of the railroads 
proved that when such companies compete 
in this way nearly everyone suffers. The 
firms risk bankruptcy and the public pays 
liigh prices.
So, to avoid repeating the mistakes of 
railroads, states acted to curb competition 
among these utility companies by 
granting them limited monopolies. Each 
firm was given the right to service an area 
free of competition. However, given 
monopoly power, the firms would be free 
to charge exorbitant rates resulting in 
windfall profits (Point B on the graph). 
Hence, in return for no competition, 
the firms had to submit to state control 
of their rates. In Pennsylvania, as in other 
states, the Public Utility Commission
was created to set uniform rates for the 
utility companies.
The PUC used the following model 
to set its rates. It was assumed, and it 
was generally true, that one large firm 
could produce at lower costs than many 
small firms. (Roughly the difference 
between points C and D2 on the graph). 
At such a low price the public could afford 
to buy more of the service. (The differ
ence between points D2 and D3.) How
ever, increasing production increases the 
firms cost point D4. This argument con
tinues as the points on the graph spiral 
in toward point D. If things could have 
settled at point D the story could end 
here. The PUCs job would simply be a 
matter of calculating point D and setting 
rates accordingly. But the PUC is not just 
an economic body, it is a political body 
as well. Politics, not economics, under
mined the workings of this model.
The PUC penuitted strong firms, with 
lower than average costs, to buy up weaker 
firms, with higher than average costs, 
because this prevented politically embar
rassing rate increases. The weak firms, 
who were always asking for rate increases, 
were swallowed by the stronger firms, 
who could afford existing rates. But 
as the strong companies grew, the public 
became suspicious of them. The public 
was convinced that somehow these growing 
firms were pushing prices up. Political 
pressure therefore forced the PUC to con
tinually cut rates. The irony of this was 
that lower rates simply helped the big
point at which monopolist's marginal revenue equals zero. (C) Free Market equilibrium; 
the point at which the supply of many small competitive firms equals public demand. 
(D) PUC/Monopoly equilibrium; the point at which the supply of one large firm equals 
public demand. Notice that since one large firm has lower cost, point D has higher con
sumption and lower price than point C. (E) "Free" Utilities; the point if companies were 
nationalized and costs were paid from a general tax.
companies grow faster since lower rates 
ran the weak companies out of business 
faster.
Eventually realizing this, the PUC aban
doned the effort to establish uniform rates 
and hit on the idea of setting different 
rates for each company, based on each 
companys costs. This stopped the growth 
at about the point we see today.
But now that rates were tied to each 
firms costs a new game started. Since the 
public expected the PUC to act in its inter
ests, i.e. to cut back rates, the firms learned 
to inflate their costs. Therefore each new 
rate hike proposal was artificially inflated 
by the utility companies and then hap
hazardly cut by the PUC. After the cut, 
the firms would hopefully get what they 
wanted and the PUC would satisfy every
one that it was being vigilant. Unfor
tunately, not all firms inflated their needs. 
They got hurt. Some firms exaggerated 
wildly. They profited. Gradually, as the 
character of each firm became clear, the 
PUC would cut some rate requests more 
than others in an attempt to reach some 
equilibrium.
Over the years this game of Guess My 
Costs has had the effect of totally blur
ring the real position of point D on the 
graph. Where exactly is that point today?? 
No one knows. Its a matter of guessing.
Next Week: Can the PUC be improved?
Ex-railroad station becomes new shopping mall
by Saul Carliner
If youre looking for someplace differ
ent to shop for gifts this year, why not try 
the Freight House Shops?
Located on the Southside, right over the
Smithfield Bridge, this newly designed in
door mall has the unique aspect of having 
once been a railroad freight house. The 
Freight House Shops is part of Station 
Square, the reconverted Eerie and Long
jg^^RwwtaagtswpcacneaBstwwwgitagigii8iitagiSfiiggi5l5i5Bia515\5l5i5\5l515^5tS<5Bl5\5l5l5l5gi5tg{
CAMPUS STREST CORNER
The Koh-I-Noor Answer Man will be in the 
Art Store
Wednesday, November 28 10:00AM -12 Noon & 2:00 PM - 4:00PM.
See demonstrations on the use, care and 
cleaning of your technical pen.
emu bookstoretrivia question
ANSWER, 
Nome _
laaaaiaaaBfiigisisis^^
#8. What will go down a chimney down, but not up a chimney up?
Address
Island Railroad Company on the Monongehela River, and most of the original ex
teriors and train memorabilia remain in
tact, including the tracks, platform, and 
railroad signals.
The thirty-odd boutiques and specialty 
shops in the indoor mall are as unique as 
their setting, featuring a wide variety of 
unusual gifts. In many instances, this trans
lates to higher prices, but the prices at the 
Freight House Shops compare favorably 
with the price ranges of Shadyside and 
Squirrel Hill stores.
And the Freight House Shops provides a
much more pleasant shopping atmosphere. 
The unusual architecture of the freight 
house, all left intact, contrasts nicely with 
the open design of the stores, lending it
self to a light, airy atmosphere. This is 
complemented by the cafes and eating 
stands interspersed throughout the mall. 
Special exhibits of arts and crafts, as well 
as the intermittent special presentations 
give shoppers a chance to do more than 
just shop.
In many ways, this sounds no different 
from a typical indoor mall. However, the
continued on next page
W&terjord
i
L
Holiday 
Entertainment Special!
Saturday, November 24
 12 great races!  Comedy and Song! Chuck Tanner Handicap!  Armwrestling!
For one great night, you can thrill to throughbred racing, enjoy top-notch singing and comedy acts, and watch (or even challenge) a worlds champion arm- wrestler! And, as a special incentive to students only, we offer you FREE ADMISSION, too!
FREE ADMISSION
Present this coupon, proper student ID card 
and GET IN FREE. This offer is good for 
general admission to grandstand only, for 
the night of Saturday, November 24, 1979. 
One admission per coupon.
SHOWS START AT 5:30 P.M.. . .
POST TIME FOR FIRST RACE IS 7:00 PM

---------------------------------------------------

Steve Thentus
November 20, 1979TARTANPage 9
Campus skating banned at UCB
Berkeley, Ca (CPS)  Skating on cam
pus has become so popular these days that 
at least one administration has banned it.
Sargeant Phil Fingers of the University 
of California-Berkeley police says that the 
number of people on roller skates, skate
boards, and bicycles has finally grown to 
such a large number that walking on the 
Berkeley campus has become a trecherous 
proposition.
So far there have been more complaints than accidents, the Sargeant says, 
"but we had to do something.
So as of Monday October 29 the Berke
ley police started issuing warnings to 
skaters who pose a safety problem to 
pedestrians on the 30,000 student campus.
If verbal warnings arent sufficient to 
curb the rising number of complaints by 
Berkeley pedestrians, then campus police 
can resort to a new program that allows the 
officers to issue citations carrying fines.
This isn'l a parking garage! Its Science Hail!Mall offers unique atmosphere
t^ontinued from page 8
Freight House Shops is smaller than the 
mammoth Monroeville and Century III 
malls. And it is much more personable. 
Just look at what some of the stores offer: 
The Bear Essentials - the one-step shop for 
all your teddy bear needs, including Mama 
Bears, Papa Bears, and Baby Bears; panda 
bears; koala bears; and even underbears. 
Cute gifts at reasonable prices.
The Whale's Tooth - a potpourri of mens 
sweaters and shirts, womens clothes, and 
personal as well as household accessories, 
d with country elegance. The shop for 
those with preppy tastes.
Chequers - a fine selection of British 
tweeds and weaves for men and women alike, as well as accessories. A classic shop 
for people with classic tastes.
Morewood Galleries  an antique shop dis
playing the work of top craftsmen, those 
of years gone by. Porcelain, silver and gold 
are prominent, and like most antiques, 
these are out of the range of most student
budgets. Still well worth the look. 
Workbench - Their Scandanavian-style fur
niture, well known for beauty and practi
cality, is perfect for that first apartment. 
Always Christmas - and any other holiday. 
The store displays traditional decoration 
year-round.
There are also a book store of 
Pittsburgh memorabilia, a handmade 
jewelry store, a country crafts shop, and 
several clothes stores. A French fondue 
restaurant, a Mexican restaurant, an 
Original Hot Dog stand and a candy shop 
provide an assortment of places to eat.
In addition to the shops, there is the 
Grand Concourse restaurant in the old 
terminal building, a cooking school in an 
old caboose, and a soon to be complete 
office building in the renovated E&LI of
fices.
All in all, the Freight House Shops, vir
tually set in a historical landmark, offers a 
refreshing change from the drudgery of 
holiday shopping.
Tm
The Pittsburgh Symphony Society
presents the annual celebration ofT T 11/
Sunday, Monday and Tuesday 
December 9,10 and 11 at 8 pm
_______Tickets: $7.50,6.50,5.00_______
Pittsburgh Symphony Chamber Orchestra
Donald Johanos, Conductor 
Carmen Balthrop, Soprano 
Josepha Gayer, Mezzo Soprano 
Dennis Bailey, Tenor 
James Courtney, Bass 
Mendelssohn Choir of Pittsburgh 
Robert Page, Music Advisor 
James Meena, Associate Conductor
Tickets now on sale at box office. Phone 281-5000 for information. 
Please phone Mrs. Tucker at 281-8185 
for generous Group Discounts.
YOU DON'T WANT TO MISS 
THIS ANNUAL HOLIDAY EVENT!
SPONSORED 
BY SARC
Checkers?
Backgammon?
WHATS YOUR GAME ?
9:00 p.m. November 19 1979 
in the Morewood Rec Room

---------------------------------------------------

9
Marys9 Kitchen
We offer catering that will add joy and ease to your Christmas and New Year gatherings.
MA Y WE SUGGEST:
A HOT BUFFET (FEA TURING VARIOUS HOT DELICACIES LIKE ROAST, 
BEEF, CREPES, A ND QUICHE)
* A COLD BUFFET (FEATURING FRESHLY BAKED HAM, ROAST BEEF,
DELICIOUS JELLO SALADS, AND MORE)
* A GENEROUS COM BIN A TION OF HOT AND COLD
* CHEESE TRA YS WITH A TASTE OF ELEGANCE
* HORS D  OEUVRES FOR A LL OCCASSIONS
* OR YOUR OWN SUGGESTIONS
MAKE THESE HOLIDAYS THE BEST. CALL US TODAY! 
788-4685
WANTS TO HELP YOU !

---------------------------------------------------

Sea Level gives CMU an entertaining and diverse concert
by Scott Schaffer
The Skibo Ballroom was elevated to 
Sea Level this past Saturday night, and 
the feeling was unanimous that the seven 
standout musicians put on a fine show.
Sea Level, an American band which 
rose from the dust of the Allman Brothers 
Band in 1976, didnt use any gimmicks, they 
just picked up their instruments and played 
their hearts out for an hour and a half, much 
to the enjoyment of the energetic audience. 
The lineup consisted of Chuck Leavell 
(whose first initial and last name provide 
the groups tag) on keyboards, Randall 
Bramblett on keyboards and saxes, Jimmy 
Nalls and David Causey on guitars, Lamar 
Williams on bass, Joe English on drums, 
Matt Greaty on percussion. Although each 
member is a virtuoso in his own right, the 
group functioned as a single unit, with 
everyone contributing, but no one domina^ 
ting.
Their material covered a wide variety of 
styles, ranging from jazz instrumentals (such 
as A Lotta Colada) to rhythm and blues 
(Living in a Dream) to southern boogie 
(Country Fool). This diversity, which 
used to cause identification problems, has 
come to distinguish Sea Level from other 
combos. The band played a few new tunes 
(they will soon release a new album), but 
the meat of the show was older material in 
general, and instrumental pieces in particu
lar. Although Leavell and Bramblett are re
spectable singers, non-vocal tracks such as 
Rain in Spain, and Fifty-four were 
highpoints of the set.
Leavell, Bramblett, Nalls, and Causey 
exchanged solos throughout. They formed 
a front-four that would make Mean Joe 
Greene drool. The former two were most 
responsible for the groups unique sound, 
and the latter two were at times reminiscent 
of the Dickey Betts-Duane Allman combi
nation (Causey even looked like Betts while 
Nalls played a nasty slide). Williams 
stage presence did not attract much atten
tion, but his jumping bass lines did. English 
and Greaty provided the rhythmic backbone 
that the others needed.
The concert seemed to reach a climax 
when the fans offered a standing ovation 
after a torrid version of Thats Your 
Secret, but Sea Level topped this with a 
fifteen minute interpretation of their first 
album classic, Grand Larceny. During 
this tune, Leavells tasteful piano playing, 
and Brambletts traditional alto saxophone 
solo toyed with the crowds emotions. 
After a drum solo, the septet broke into an 
extended jam that brought the crowd to 
pandemonium.
By this time, the mob had forgotten 
about the opening act, New York comedi
enne, Nancy Parker. She was not well 
received, but this was not entirely her fault. 
A number of hecklers made it difficult for 
her to get across her TV and movie oriented 
jokes and impressions (some of which 
werent bad), and the audience as a whole 
was in the mood for music , not comedy. 
After the show, Ms. Parker said, A come
dian needs the audience. .. we get,stronger 
when we get kicked a little more.
by Bruce Berry
The Decade Club in Oakland is one of 
the last refuges from civilized society. A 
loud, crowded, sweaty, and smoky place, it 
is nevertheless an excellent showcase for 
rock and roll. Upcoming artist Pat Benatar 
and her band used the clubs atmosphere 
and some tight, bouncing, new wave-influ
enced rock music to satisfy a capacity 
crowd on Sunday night, November 11.
Starting off the evening was yet another 
insipid performance by the Hell band. Af
ter viewing this group for the second time I 
have come to the conclusion that a policy 
of strict avoidance of this band should be 
reccommended.
Promptly at 11:30, Pat Benatar and her 
backup musicians strolled on to the stage. 
The group is centered around lead vocalist 
Pat Benatar. Dressed in a cutaway leopard 
spotted t-shut and not much else, Pat 
Benatar used her sixteen year old looks 
to good advantage. Although there was 
little room on the small stage, she managed 
to get into a little sultry prowling and 
strutting just like the big girls (especially
Deborah Harry of Blondie). Benatar obvi
ously is very influenced by Harry and tries 
to present the same kind of image. Unfor
tunately this does not work. Her voice is 
much more similar to Rachel Sweets work 
and she does not have the same raw appeal 
of Deborah Harry.
What made the night was the combina
tion of Benatars vocals with the no non
sense rock of her backup band. Neil 
Geraldos fine lead guitar efforts were the 
main energy source of the show. His in
novative attempts to produce the wildst, 
fanciest sounds around kept the bands 
drummer and bassist form dragging them 
into a new wave rhythm rut. Versions of 
My Clone Sleeps Alone, Heartbreaker, 
and title track In the Heat of the Night, 
were featured in the show. All in all, the 
band and Pat Benatar put on a satisfying 
show that foretells some kind of future 
for them in the rock world.
Sea Level gave a fine performance of country, blues, and jazz in the Skibo Ballroom during the A.B. 
Concert on Friday, November 16.
Chamber players perform
Pat Benatar plays Decade
by Timothy LeVan
The premier of the Carnegie-Mellon 
Chamber Players opened with an exciting 
All-Brahms concert last Monday evening.
This newly formed group is composed 
of CMU music faculty members and vis
iting artists.
Performing last Monday were Judith 
Burganger, piano, Louis Paul, clarinet, 
Bruce Plumb, viola, Anne Martindale Wil
liams, cello, and visiting artist Barbara Lister-Sink, piano.
The Sonata for Viola and Piano in E 
Flat, Major, Op. 120, No. 2 opened the 
program. Mr. Plumb and Ms. Lister-Sink 
performed with the intended intimacy the 
work requires.
Both musicians played with excellent 
technical and musical ability. The husband-wife team further heightened the 
level of their performance with much mus
ical sensitivity and emotion.
The Sonata for Violincello and Piano in F 
Major, Op. 99 brought to light two more 
marvelous performers, Ms. Burganger and 
Ms. Williams
Ms. Burganger played with superb 
pianistic ability, acting at times both as 
accompanist and soloist.
Ms. Wiliams played with much com
mand of her instrument and showed a 
great technical facility.
The balance between the cello and pi
ano was.perfect. It was particularly fascina
ting to hear the first theme of the seDaniel
lovely
cond movement ot this sonata.
Mason states that this theme is a 
bit of fluent innocencism [sic}, as of a 
candid child. One cannot help but agree.
The program ended with the Trio for 
Piano, Clarinet and Violicello in A Minor, 
Op. 114 with Ms. Burganger, Mr. Paul and 
Ms. Williams.
Again, Ms. Burganger played with great 
feeling, musicality and secure under
standing of the music.
Mr. Paul played very well, with seeming 
ease. It was interesting to hear how Brahms 
exploited the three different registers of 
the clarinet. Mr. Paul seemed very adept 
in his ability to make these different ran
ges and use them for the purposes set by 
Brahms.
Ms. Williams continued her fine playing 
throughout and showed a great ability for 
ensemble playing.
The concert was very enriching and an 
excellent musical offering. This concert 
series should be playing for a full house 
every performance.
All CMU students should be aware 
of these fine concerts and take advan
tage of them by attending.
The next concert by the CarnegieMellon Chamber Players will be an AllSchubert program. This concert is Decem
ber 17, 8 P.M. in the Alumni Concert 
Hall, Fine Arts Building.
Free (with I.D.) student tickets are 
available in advance in the music office.
Equus opens Soho season with success
Pat Benetar did some energetic singing at the 
Decade on Sunday, November 11.
by Melody Mazzie
Rarely is a production so engrossing 
that it can hold the attention of an audi
ence for three entire hours. The Soho 
Repertory Companys production of the 
Tony Award-winning play, Equus did not 
merely hold the attention of the audience, 
it captivated it.
James Lieb, who played the starring 
role of Alan Strang, was outstanding. 
He expressed himself powerfully both ver
bally and physically, exercising the grace 
and control in his movements of a dis
ciplined dancer. Lieb is a third year drama 
student at Point Park College and has been 
involved in the theater all his life.
Joseph DeStio, who portrayed the psy
chiatrist Dysart, also gave an excellent 
performance. DeStio is an alumnus of 
Pitt who holds a graduate degree from 
Syracuse.
Though all of the performances of the
other actors were well done, that of Nann 
Mogg as Alans mother is worthy of special 
note. Mogg has acted most of her life, 
as was evident in the professionalism of 
her performance. She enveloped herself 
in the character of Dora Strang with a 
believability that was both poignant 
and touching.
The Soho Repertory Company, Pitts
burghs newest theatre, is primarily made 
up of people who have worked for the 
past two years with the Studio Theatre 
and/or the Hampton Red Barn. The 
Company has quite a diverse group of act
ors, including a political science professor 
from Pitt and a chemist for Mobay Chem
ical.
Equus ran through the second and 
third weekends of November. It is the sto
ry of a seventeen-yearold stable boy, Alan 
Strang, who one night inexplicably blinds 
six horses in the stable where he works. 
The play is based on the true story of a
boy in northern England who, several years 
ago, supposedly blinded 26 horses. Peter
Shaffer, the playwright, first learned the 
story from a friend and was so intrigued 
that he set aside the play he was working 
on to develop the plot of Equus. The 
result was not merely the story of the 
stable boy, but also of the psychiatrist, 
Martin Dysart. Dysart tries to cure Alan 
despite the painful revelations that the 
case brings to his own life.
Interested in 
Theater, Dance or Music? 
The Entertainment Staff 
of the TARTAN needs you!
For mor
Mi><
info contact 
dy or Alan 
x2111

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12TARTANNovember 20, 1979
Pittsburgh Public Theatre production has potential
IEIi 38aoMB.
Katharine Houghton as Nina Mikhailavna 
Zarechnaya in Pittsburgh Public Theatre's pro
duction of Chekov's masterpiece. The Seagull, 
being performed at the Allegheny Theatre now 
through December 23.
by Bob Henry
Pittsburgh Public Theater has a potenially stunning version of Anton Chekhovs 
The Seagull, but a few wrong interpre
tations make the play less smashing than it 
could be. Maybe you can equate the play 
with the Steelers on a lackluster day  
they easily win the game, but they dont 
dominate it like you feel they can.
First off, in a move that could be called 
either daring or foolish PPT has 
chosen to make The Seagull a four act play 
with three intermissions. I call it foolish. 
They have two and a half hours of theatre 
and could neatly divide it into two 75 
minute segments. Instead they divide it 
into four segments, and the show loses 
continuity, impact, and power. PPT may 
have felt that the audience could not take 
two long bursts of Chekhov, but when a 
show is of the quality of this one we want 
it to continue, not stop.
PPT also gives us a strange playing of 
the final scene, but aside from these two 
problems and some distracting hanging
scenery pieces, The Seagull is an out
standing production  due in part to 
superior acting.
For me, Chekhovs magic is in his 
ability to hold us without much action 
occuring. He holds us by deftly and 
quickly sketching solid, interesting char
acters, and ultimately, the show lives or 
dies on how well the actors portray those 
characters, on how much we care about 
them. PPTs actors bring strong, convin
cing performances to every part, and hence 
the characters problems have import and 
substance, and the show works. At times I 
watched eight or nine people sitting and 
chatting, and I felt I knew all of them 
intimately.
The actors probably would not have 
done so well if translator Michael Henry 
Heim hadnt given them such a good script. 
His version of Chekhovs Russian  which 
PPT is giving its world premiere  provides 
the characters with language that is appropiately dignified and articulate without 
losing simplicity, clarity or brevity. It 
sounds nice, flows smoothly, and seems to 
fit each character well.
Pat Collins lighting is luscious and 
beautiful, giving us indoor and outdoor 
feelings when required. David Tosers 
costumes highlight the personality changes 
that the characters undergo.
PPT also dresses the set magnificently, 
showing us all the materials and goods of 
pre-revolutionary Russia. All the trappings 
help give us the feeling that we are there. 
Designer Schroders rough wood look also 
helps create the atmosphere. He has, 
however, elected to use hanging sculptures 
and set pieces which rise above the audi
ence at the opening of each scene and then 
return at the end of the scene. For me, 
they were unnecessary and distracting. I 
guess theyre supposed to help define the
kL Pleasnlot
366 NEW WORDS A YEAR CALENDAR
For each day, a commonly misused word (penultimate means next to last," not the impossible "most ultimate"). Or a word that is familiar but infrequently used, Wee rue ("to feel regret") or shamble ("to drag one's feet"). Or a word that is just plain marvelous, like chryselephantine ("made of gold and ivory") or chiromancy ("palmistry").From plethora to cerulean, each word is presented with phonetic spelling and dictionary definition in a graphic delight that is filled with as - ton/ - eh - meent, won/ - der, and er - u - <*/ - tion.The perfect calendar gift for crossword puzzlers. Scrabble players, speech makers, authors, students, and anyone who reads, writes, or speaks the English language.
3.96
THE 366 WOMEN A YEAR CALENDAR for I960From Cleopatra to Dr. Joyce Brothers (and the date she won the $64,000 Question), a different woman for each day.Featuring unsung heroines and pioneer women, steadfast mothers and wise-hearted queens  and including entertainers, goddesses, scientists, authors, criminals, First Ladies. Plus: Mrs. OraSnyder, 1930's Candy Gueen of Chicago.Whether she is young like Chris Evert, old like Grandma Moses, brilliant like Margaret Mead, disturbing like Christine Jorgenson, each woman is caught in photographs, statistics, drawings (Blondie dealing with Dagwood), or quotes. Actress Ruth Gordon's:"Never give up . . . a little money helps, but what ready gets it right is to never, I repeat never, under a- edition, face facts."
93.95tmu bcckstwe*
THE 366 JOKES A YEAR CALENDAR for I960
For each day, a limerick, riddle, pun, wisecrack, one- liner, perhaps even an epitaph. Including seasonal and weather jokes, plus hundreds of witty, waggish observations about the American scene then and now ("Cars! They're so small I got hit by one and had to go to the hospital to have it removed!")Jokes from the great comedians and entertainers (Mark Twain and Will Rogers to nighttime talk show hosts), jokes thct children love ("What does a 200-pound mouse say? 'Here, kitty, kitty, kitty' "), jokes from unlikely places like a Vermont tombstone:"Here lies the body of our AnnaDone to death by a banana; It wasn't the fruit that laid her low.But the skin of the thing that made her go."
$3.96
different locations and give the interiors 
some coziness (my companion guessed that 
they were meant to symbolize a seagull 
with their flying departures and arrivals), 
but I found them intrusive and a mistake.
PPTs first three scenes keep to 
Chekhovs intention that The Seagull be 
a comedy and they are tight, gripping, and 
a joy to watch. The final scene loses the 
comedic mood, however, and I left the 
show wondering if they had read the same 
scene I had. They are so far away from my 
vision of the ending that Im guessing they 
had a different interpretation. The scene 
didnt amuse or move me, as did the rest 
of the play.
But overall PPTs The Seagull soars up
in the clouds. The acting, directing, cos
tuming, lighting, set, properties, and 
wonderful background sound combine to 
transport us to another world. The show 
has moments of sadness, moments of 
hilarity, and moments of passion, and it 
has an appeal and a validity impossible to 
deny.
PPT encourages student attendance by 
selling $330 student rush tickets half an 
hour before curtain. And if you go youll 
be able to see CMUs own Yolanda 
Delgado, who, having a minor part as a 
maid, does a beautiful job and creates a 
funny,, entertaining character. For box 
office information call 323-1900.
Bonnie Raitt charms crowd
Bonnie Raitt
by Ted Smits
Throughout her long career, Bonnie 
Raitt has consistently produced albums 
and live tours that have recieved both crit
ical and commercial acclaim. The Glow is 
her latest album, and like her recent show 
at Syria Mosque, it is another sucessful 
merging of soul, country, and the blues.
The crowd, which nearly filled the ele
gant Syria Mosque, was clearly dedicated 
to Bonnie Raitt and greeted almost every 
song with enthusiasm. Bonnie and her band 
started off a little slow, but by the first 
opening riffs of her classic Sugar Mama, 
both the band and the audience came 
alive and stayed that way for the rest of 
the show.
A large degree of Bonnies appeal can be 
attributed to the fact that she surrounds 
herself with some of the top musicians 
available. The addition of a saxophonist 
and keyboardist rounded out the group.
Probably her best known hit, Runa
way, closed the show. A version of John 
Halls anti-nuke anthem Power was the 
first encore. Bonnie Raitt is one of the 
founding members of MUSE (musicians 
United for Safe Energy) and her various 
remarks throughout the show kept the 
audience well aware of it. After two more 
encores, Bonnie, her band, and her audi
ence were all able to go home content 
and satisfied with the eveningss music.
Most opening acts are usually throw
aways these days but the Nighthawks sixty 
minute opening show almost rivaled 
Bonnie Raitts. A four man blues band 
from (as they were introduced) the politi
cally corrupt state of Maryland, the Nighthawks still play the gritts, all out, basic 
blues that were the foundation of most 
major rock acts. Running through a num
ber of originals as well as some tunes from 
James Brown, Muddy Waters and Johnny 
Lee Hooker, the Nighthawks brought the 
crowd to their feet repeatedly. You could 
not ask for a better opener for the Bonnie 
Raitt show.
RESEARCH AND GRADUATE STUDY IN THE 
EARTH, MINERAL, AND MATERIALS SCIENCES
The Pennsylvania State University
Science, engineering, and social science 
graduates with high academic potential 
are invited to apply for teaching and re
search graduate assistantships in Penn 
State s College of Earth and Mineral Sci
ences. Graduate assistants receive full 
tuition plus stipends.
The college is expanding its graduate
program to help meet the critical nead for 
highly trained professionals in the vital 
areas of natural resources, energy, and 
environmental protection. The faculty, in
ternationally recognized for excellence in 
research and instruction, supervises a 
large number of research contracts and 
grants from government and industry.
To: Dr. C. L. Hosier, Dean
College of Earth and Mineral Sciences 
The Pennsylvania State University 
116 Deike Building 
University Park, PA 16802
I am interested in graduate study in the field(s) checked below:
____Ceramic Science____Meteorology
Earth Sciences____Mineral Economics
___Fuel Science__L Mineral Engineering Management
____Geochemistry and Mineralogy____Mineral Processing
____Geography____Mining Engineering
____Geology____Petroleum and Natural Gas
____GeophysicsEngineering
____Metallurgy____Polymer Science
Name
Address
An Affirmative Action, Equal Opportunity University

---------------------------------------------------

November 20, 1979TARTANPage 13
Library fund increased
SAE fine upheld in court
by Josh Medvin
The U.F.O. court upheld the Universi
tys preliminary $1,000 fine placed on the 
Sigma Alpha Epsilon house this past week. 
The fine was incurred for the September 
29th explosion which occured during the 
Dantes Inferno rush party. The blast 
blew out all of the large first floor win
dows, and several smaller windows on the 
lbther floors.
S.A.E. took their appeal to the court to 
seek a reduction in the original fine which 
was not to exceed $1,000. According to 
Rick Baeder, head of the U.F.O. court,
the courts ruling agreed with that of the 
University.
University regulations state that all fra
ternity and sorority related incidents shall 
be reviewed by the U.F.O. court whose re
commendations shall be submitted to the 
University Disciplinary Committee for a 
final binding decision.
This will be the last chance that S.A.E.s 
president, A1 Fountain, can seek a reduc
tion in the fine. The house must also reim
burse Housing $2,7000 for broken win
dows and limit next semesters parties to 
two.
by Jeanne Abmayr
For the coming year, 1980-81, the 
university allocation for the libraries has 
been increased by 18%. This is one of the 
highest increases given to any department, 
stated Ruth Corrigan, director of University 
Libraries.
In recent years the libraries, including 
Hunt, E&S, and Mellon Institute, had 
received an 'annual increase of ony 7%, 
barely enough to-cover the rising cost of 
materials. For example, the cost of journals 
alone has been rising between 12 and 15% 
annually. In order to maintain the present 
subscription list and compensate for these 
rising prices, cuts have had to be made in 
other areas, particularly in the new book 
budget, an area that wont be suffering in 
this years budget (23% higher than last 
years).
This years increase puts the library 
allocation at $1,120,000.00 for the coming 
school year. This is broken down into three 
major areas: 58% for salaries, 37% for 
materials (books and journals), and 5% 
toward supplies and processing fees.
Other improvements have also been
made in the libraries this year. New listening 
equipment was purchased for the music 
library (4th floor, Hunt). In E&S, the ad
jacent corridor has been closed and holds 
additional journals, and new shelving has 
been installed for the periodicals. Also, a 
long-range project was enacted to automate 
the entire library system. It is expected to 
take 2-3 years to complete, and the benefits 
will include increased efficiency in both 
processing and locating books. Finally, 
the reserve room of Hunt is getting a major 
face-lift, which should be completed some
time after Thanksgiving.
The university recognizes the problems 
that the libraries are having, and is at
tempting to allieviate some of them. The 
situation is looking better for the coming 
years, Corrigan concluded, summing up 
the trend toward increasing library facilities 
in the future.
Campus crime level declines
By Pete Levin
Criminal statistics for the month of 
October were released recently by Lt. 
Armand Castelli, Director of Campus Po
lice. Crime on the CMU campus took a noticable decline in just about all categories, 
particluarly burglary and theft, with a 
slight increase reported for false alarms and 
the number of medical escorts provided by 
Campus Police as opposed to statistics 
from the last two years.
Stated Castelli on the slacking off of 
petty thefts, We can not attribute the
decrease to one specific cause, but rather 
to a combination of causes such as people 
being more careful with their belongings 
and possibly the fact that our personnel are 
wearing guns this year.
The issue of whether the campus police 
force should carry guns or not has been a 
sensitive subject on campus. It is impor
tant to note however, that all the men and 
women wearing guns are specially trained 
and certified by the state. They are invol
ved in the same program that trains county 
and state police to use their weapons.
IRON CITY
SCHLITZ
BUD
SCHMIDTS 
CHAMPALE 
STROHS 
GENESEE 
ROLLING ROCK 
SCHLITZ MALT 
BALLANTINE ALE 
MILLER LIGHT 
MICHELOB 
PABST 
MILLER 
COLT 45
GENESEE CREAM ALE 
BUSCH
SCHLITZ LIGHT
Featuring 22 Varieties Steak Subs
SERVING BEER SUNDAY 1 PM - 2 AM 
QUARTS - MUGS - PITCHERS 
CHOICE OF 6 DIFFERENT DRAFT BEERS
MILLERS. COLT 45. MOLSON ALE. LOWENBRAU DARK STHOMS HEINEKEN LIGHT
One different 16 oz 6 pk featured each week 
SCHLITZ  PABST 
SCHLITZ MALT  STROH'S * ROLLING ROCK WE ARE NOT ALLUWED TO ADVER
TIZE OUR LOW BEER PRICES SPECIALTY ITEMS 
FRESH CUT FRENCH FRIES  PIZZA SERVED TILL 3 AM 
HOT DOGS CHOICE OF 12 DIFFERENT CONDIMENTS 
35 VARIETIES OF SANDWICHES 
-------------------- IMPORTS -----------------------
HOT DOG SHOPS, INC 
621-7388 or 621-1185
3901 FORBES AV (OAKLAND! PGH PA 15213
 BASS ALE England DORT HANSA Germany 
SAM MIGUEL Phillipines SPATENBRAU Germany ST PAUU GIRL Germany 
PILSNER URQUELL Czech 
GUINESS STOUT Ireland DAS XX EQUIS Mexico 
WURZBURGER Germany HARP LAGER Ireland LOWENBRAU Germany . 
O'KEEFE ALE Canada DINKEL ACKER Germany 
TECATE Mexico ISENBECK W Germany 
IRYSTALL Italy MACKESON England
KIRIN Japan 
PERONI Italy
 RIGNES Norway BECKS Germany 
HOFBRAU Germany 
ZYWIEC Poland
 KRAKUS Poland SUPERIOR Mexico FUSI tRS Australia HEINEKEN Holland MOLSON ALE Canada 
PAULANER Germany 
GOSSER Austria TANKARD London UNION W Germany 
PALE ALE London DINKEL Germany
 WARFTEINEL Germany
CHRISTMAS POSTAL DEADLINES
INTERNATIONAL MAIL  OUTBOUND
Airmail
DestinationAir ParcelsLetters/CardsSurface
North & Northwest Africa................____ 28 Nov...........8 Dec............10 Nov.
____ 28 Nov...........1 Dec............27 Oct.
Caribbean/W. Indies...........................____ 12 Dec............14 Dec............13 Nov.
Central/South America......................____ 30 Nov...........1 Dec............10 Nov.
. 8 Dec............12 Dec............10 Nov.
Far East......................................................... 8 Dec.............12 Dec............27 Oct.
____ 28 Nov...........5 Dec............1 Nov.
.... 30 Nov...........1 Dec............27 Oct.
____ 28 Nov...........8 Dec............27 Oct.
28 Nov...........8 Dec............27 Oct.
U. S. MAIL FIRST CLASS DEADLINE DEC- 15f 1979 
PARCEL POST DEADLINE DEC. 10, 1979
I have not received complaints as of 
yet regarding the force carrying weapons, 
from either students or the people on the 
force. I am not aware of any objections by 
any person associated with Campus Police 
about the training program, Castelli 
commented.
We obviously prefer to come and 
check out a situation and find everything 
in order than to have someone hesitate to 
call and maybe get hurt. We. are here to 
help, thats what we get paid for, we are 
not out to get students in trouble, just 
protect and help them when we are needed, 
concluded Castelli.
?feimE norgnsK*
210 OAKLAND (9VVK. 
'1*ttfcbunih, 1**.
gttKS-34441
su nil mi ted Varieties 
special order? available
?vi'
11 /
Let the GreatX Haircutters 
identify the real YOU with a 
Unique Precision Haircut!
A precision cut at Great "X" means 
that we cut your hair naturally  
the way that it grows. So it holds 
its shape longer and stays in place 
better than any other haircut 
you've ever had. That's why 
Great "X" has more than 100 
stores across the country ready 
to help you identify yourself.
HAIRCUTS 
(Wash-Cut-Bio vw)
11 00
Mon. Tues. Wed. 10-7 
Thurs. fri. 10-9 
Sat. 9-4
COLORING
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
PERMANENTS
237 Atwood Street 
Pittsburgh. Pa. 15213 
687-3500
UNISEX HAIR SALON
2500
NO
APPOINTMENT;

---------------------------------------------------

UFS UPDATE
UNIVERSITY FOOD SERVICE

---------------------------------------------------

Tartans work overtime to edge UM-M 31-25
continued from page 1
the backfield looking for an open receiver. 
He avoided a sack but was still nailed in 
the ribs. He was helped off the field and 
was replaced by sophomore Joe Stark. The 
Cougars put on a tremendous pass rush 
and Stark was sacked for a loss which 
forced punter Gene Marcink to enter the 
game. However, he could not handle the 
snap and the Cougars recovered on the 
CMU 28 yard line. Minnesota-Morris 
quickly took advantage of the situation, 
scoring from 28 yards out, and what had 
been a 14-0 lead for the Tartans, was 
suddenly a 18-14 deficit. Kennedy 
pleased the crowd when he trotted out on 
the field. Despite his poor passing statistics 
his running was still the key to the Tartan 
attack up to that time. The Cougars were 
still containing the Tartans and when Kreb 
threw a 12 yard touchdown pass and 
converted the PAT, the Cougars suddenly 
went into the last quarter leading by eleven 
points. It was time for CMU to get down 
to business. The Tartans managed to 
mount z drive to the Cougar 20, but 
Kennedy, whose passing was beginning 
to improve, fumbled, and the Cougars 
recovered. Moes Maniacs and two holding 
penalties pushed the Cougars back to their 
eight from where they were forced to punt. 
Since they figured to have excellent field 
position, the Tartans set up for a return 
instead of rushing Macken, the punter.
The Cougar muffed the Tartans strategy 
by booming a high spiraling punt which 
ended its journey 60 yards down field. 
The Tartans did move to the Cougar 12 
yard line before stalling and Postufka came 
in to try a 29 yard field goal. He split 
the uprights, but for the second time in 
three attempts, a procedure penalty cost 
the Tartans five yards. Postufka, despite 
the same kind of pressure he was subjected 
to during last years overtime field goal 
against Dayton, once again kicked the ball 
through the uprights and suddenly the 
Tartans were just a touchdown and a two 
point conversion shy.
The Tartan offense took possession a 
minute and a half later and following 
Mackens only bad punt of the afternoon 
had the ball on their 48 yard line with six 
minutes and one second remaining in 
regulation time. The following is a run
down of these most exciting moments of 
the 1979 season. Gasior gained eight yards 
to the Cougar 44. Then Kennedy found 
tight end Gary Drakulic, who had a great 
afternoon, with a 36 yard pass and a first 
down at the eight. Colosimo ran for six 
and then Fasior scored his second touch
down of the afternoon on a two yard 
plunge. The score was 25-23 and the 
Tartans called a time-out. On the two 
point conversion attempt, it appeared that 
Kennedy would be sacked, but he
Coach Chuck Klausing confers with quarterback Bob Kennedy in the closing moments of Saturday's 
double overtime victory over Minnesota-Morris.
Gus Sunseri (no. 32) and Brian Renner (no. 36) crush a Cougar receiver in Saturday's action. Tackles 
like these make receivers wary of catching the ball.
slithered away from the oncoming Cougar 
defender and fired the ball low. Out of 
nowhere came receiver Pete Recchia, 
whos concentration enabled him to snag 
the ball and tie the game. There was still 
4:14 remaining in the game; enough time 
for either team to score.
The Plaid Curtain stopped the Cougars 
and the Tartans took over on their own 14 
yard line with 1:24 remaining. Two runs 
against six yards before the nightmare 
began. On a third and four play, Kennedy 
rolled out but was hit from behind and the 
Cougars recovered the fumble on the 
Tartan 15 yard line with 14 seconds re
maining in the game. The Cougars attemp
ted a field goal and missed. The Tartans 
had something to be thankful for as the 
ball bounced of the crossbar.
The rules for overtime in the NCAA are 
that each team lias an opportunity to score 
from 15 yards out. CMU won the toss and 
elected to defend first. On the first play 
of the overtime period, Kreb had a man 
open in the end zone but his pass was be
hind him and comerback Tom Frost 
intercepted. The Tartans now put all of 
their fortunes into the foot of Denny 
Postufka. He could not come through this 
time, however, as his attempt was inches 
wide, the Cougars were given a reprieve. 
The Tartans then had to go on offense and 
get as many points as possible. Coach 
Klausing decided to stay with the depend
able plays and rely on his offensive line to 
drive the Cougars off the ball. Bob Gasior 
did the bulk of the rushing and scored on 
his fifth attempt behind the unheralded 
offensive line; Postufkas conversion was 
blocked and the Cougars knew exactly 
what was required.
The Cougars tried to run but came up 
with nothing. Then Kreb threw three 
consecutive passes, all of which fell in
complete. Tech Field exploded for the 
second year in a row as the CarnegieMellon Tartans won an exciting playoff in 
double overtime.
While it was a great victory, Coach 
Klausing knows he must iron out the teams 
weaknesses. Foolish penalties and costly 
turnovers are the type of problems that 
could cost the Tartans a Division III 
championship. But, win or lose, this Thurs
day when you sit down to your turkey 
dinner, give thanks to everyone associated 
with the Tartans for they have truly given 
us all some exciting Saturdays.
PLAYOFF NOTES: CMUs next opponent 
is Ithaca, who trounced Dubuque, 27-7 in 
Saturdays Division III quarterfinal. The 
NCAA lias decided to let Ithaca host the 
game, which will be played on Saturday, 
November 24 in Ithaca, New York. Gametime had not officially been set at the time 
of this printing.
In other Division III playoff action, 
Widener crushed defending champion, 
Baldwin-Wallace, 29-8, and number one 
ranked, Wittenberg edged number eight 
ranked Millersvillle, 21-14.
GAME STATISTICS
CMUMINN-MORR1S
31score25
19first downs10
176rushing yards83
146passing yards156
322total yards239
748.5punts5-36.2
2fumbles lost1
65penalyt yards75
Klausing captures 'Coach of the year' and Lambert bowl
Success can be habit-forming. For those 
who are of the opinion that it is just ask 
Carnegie Mellon head football coach 
Chuck Klausing.
For the third consecutive year, Klausings CMU Tartans captured the Presi
dents Athletic Conference grid table. 
For his efforts. Klausing received the 
appreciation of his peers for the third 
straight year, as he was selected as the 
PAC-8 Coach of the Year. And, once 
again, the annual Presidents' Athletic 
Conference All-League team reads like a 
page from the CMU press guide.
Paced by three-time AII-PAC-8 pick
Gus Sunseri, the Tartans had five indivi
duals named first-team All-PAC-8, while 
seven other members received secondteam berths, as another page is added to 
the Tartan success story.
Sunseri - the Tartan defensive back 
who paced the PAC-8 in interceptions in 
79 with six  is joined on the star squad 
by fullback Bob Gasior, the loop scoring 
champion with 72 points; and a trio of of
fensive lineman in Don Kaminski, Joe 
Goldcamp and Gary Mat/. Both Gasior 
and Kaminski, like Sunseri, are seniors, 
and are repeaters on the PAC-8 dream 
I earn from 78. while this is the first time
for both Goldcamp, a junior, and Matz, a 
senior.
Bethany, which shared the 79 runnerup berth with Thiel, also had five firstteam selections, headed by quarterback 
Jeff Beer.
Thiel placed four first team selections 
on the squad while John Carroll, W&J,and 
Case Western each added two starters.
Lambert bowl
Chuck Klausings Tartans continued to 
accept laurels for their 1979 season as they
were awarded the Lambert Bowl, symbolic 
of the best Division III team in the East. 
CMU piled up 94 points to edge out Wide
ner by 3 points in the voting. The balloting 
was conducted by the sports media.
The award will be accepted at the Hotel 
Roosevelt in New York City on December
6, along with the Lambert Trophy and 
Cup, awarded to the top Div I and Div II 
teams, respectively.
Ironically, Carnegie-Mellon is the only 
school ever to win this award in two dif
ferent divisions, as the 1939 Sugar Bowl 
team won the Lambert Trophy for Division
I schools.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-TARTAN-November 20, 1979
Medical Services You Can Afford
PITTSBURGH 
FREE CLINIC
 General Medical
 Health Education
& Personal Counseling
 Gynecological Services
 Contraceptive Care
Call 661-5424
(Fee Based on Ability to Pay)
w tmtt'-r-CALL 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPOS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A
GRAND OPENING
"SUIT YOURSELF"
FACTORY DISTRIBUTOR OUTLET
Stop in for the best selection 
in the newest men's suits.
 Men's Suits and Sport Coats*
Latest Styles  Famous Brands
 Tuxedo Rentals 
BELOW WHOLESALE
Add 10% discount for students
3710 FORBES
2nd floor-above Cindys O W621-6371
IM all-stars
The major league division in touch 
football has chosen their All-star teams and 
league MVP. The first is comprised of the 
following: quarterback-Cersosimo, Haven 
II; center-Peters, Pika; blocking backsRushe, Haven II and McCall, ATO; defen
sive backs-Giansante, Beta, and Clancy, 
Haven II; safety-Wehrle, Pika; rushers-Gustafson, Haven II and Pugliano, ATO; linebacker-Luciana, CAS.
There were a number of ties for the se
cond team. The members of the second 
team are: quarterback-(tie) Boron, CAS 
and McAfooses, Pika; center-Fulton, Haven 
II; blocking backs-Pochan, CAS and 
Gannis, Pika; defensive backs-(tie) Farrell, 
Pika, McGrath, SAE- Tackett, CAS and 
Keller, Pika; reciever-Belechak, Havenll, 
Slonaker, CAS; safety-Cersosimo, Haven II; 
rushers-(tie) Sullivan, Pika, Trithart, SAE, 
Brado, Pika, Brown, Haven II; linebackerScott West, ATO.
The League MVP is Rocky Cersosimo of 
Haven II.
Craig Woolheater (left) and Dario Donatelli have been the cross-country team's "dynamic duo" 
throughout the entire season.
Haven II, Phi Kap, KKG 
IM champions decided
Woolheater 'all-american'
yielded minimal yardage and for the 
fourth time in two years held their op
position to no first downs. The Tri-Delts 
only score came on a kickoff return. 
Kappa Kappa Gamma is coached by 
Jeff Dudley, Don Stoebe and John Brandt. 
Other team members who played an 
excellent game were Cindy Baker, Eileen 
Sieff, Carol Mackenzie and Dawn Clawson.
Phi Kappa Theta, to no ones surprise, 
was the outstanding winner of the Water 
Polo championship, held Thursday, Nov
ember 15. Overpowering in regular season 
competition, Phi Kap consistently outscored every opponent. In the champion
ship game they thoroughly drowned SAE 
by a score of 14-5.
Please get all Team Volleyball games 
played and turn in the score sheets prompt
ly. The playoffs are scheduled to start in 
two weeks.
Bowling intralmurals are going well. Part
icipants are urged to get all bowling fees 
paid to Strand Alleys.
Soccer participant should be aware of 
some schedule changes. They are posted 
on the IM bulletin board. Some reminders: 
be sure to note the winning team on the 
score sheet. Please return all equipment to 
the IM shed after the final game. The IM 
field lights must be off by 10:30 PM. 
Scoccer commissioner is Wes Seeley and 
can be reached at x4004.
Table Tennis is well underway ; please get 
all games played and turn in the 
scores. The commissioner for table tennis 
is Ken Bosch and he can be reached at 682- 
1242.
It is important to turn in the scores 
of Racquetball matches within 24 hours of 
the time they are played. Score sheets are 
up on the bulletin board outside of the 
Racquetball Courts.
Sports coming up with entries due at 4:30 
PM on November 22 are, Backgammon, 
commissioner Cathy Jensen-687-4684,
lhree Person Volleyball, commissioner 
Mike Pochan-683-9580, Darts, commiss
ioner Gary Frankston-682-9580. Team 
Basketball entries are due January 10, 
1980.
The next IM Board Meeting is December 
6th at 12:30 PM in the intramural office, 
room 104, Gym.
/PUT YOUR SCIENTIFIC OR 
ENGINEERING DEGREE 
TO WORK
If youre a degree candidate who would like 
to embark on a future-oriented scientific or 
engineering career, then consider the United 
States Air Force. Its one of the finest oppor
tunities in the nation.
Completion of our three-month Officer 
Training School nets you an officers com
mission and launches you into a career 
thats geared for tomorrow. Our equipment 
is among the finest, our working condi
tions are pxcellent, and our benefits pack
age unmatched. Find out about a space 
age service from your nearest Air Force 
recruiter.
VV /Vsi ~
A great way of Me
Craig Woolheater and Dario Donatelli 
travelled to Rock Island, Illinois to parti
cipate in the National Cross-Country meet 
at Augustana College last Saturday. Craig 
Woolheater finished 22nd in a time of 
24:48 became the first cross-country runner 
in CMU history to achieve All-American 
status in Divsion III cross-country compe
tition. The first 25 finishers were given 
All-American status and consequently,
Dario Donatelli, who finished 93rd in a 
time of 25:45, fell short of the All-Ameri
can cut-off.
In 60 degree temperature, an early fast 
pace took its toll on many runners as last 
years defending champion was forced to 
drop out early. North Central, Illinois 
captured the team title with 83 points, 
followed closely by Humbolt, California 
with 90 points.
by Leslie Weiser
The results of two intramural campionships are in Touch Football and Water 
Polo. In Touch Football the major league 
champion was Haven II, intermediate 
champion was Kappa Sigma, minor 
league champion PIKA-B and womens 
league champion Kappa Kappa Gamma.
The championship game of major 
League I. M. Football was played between 
Havenll and Coaches ALLSTARS. The 
game started with CAS kicking off. On the 
opening possesion Haven II drove the 
length of the field for the first score of the 
game. Both defenses got tough but Haven
II managed another score to gain a lead of 
13-0 at half. CAS fought back and narrow
ed the margin to 13-6. In the fourth quart
er Haven II scored again to make it 20-6. 
CAS came back and scored late in the game 
to close the gap to 20-12, but Haven II 
held on for the victory. Key Plays included 
touchdowns by Haven IIs Rocky Cerso
simo, John Bordas, and Joe Belechak. CAS 
touchdowns were scored by Boron and 
Slonaker. Haven II also had 3 key inter
ceptions in their own end zone to stop 
scoring by CAS.
The Kappa Kappa Gamma Crusaders 
captured the Womens IM Football title for 
the second straight year by crushing the 
Tri-Delts, 39-7. Key receptions by Kassie 
Awsome Segmiller and Ingrid Goedike 
sparked the offense. Quarterback, Terry 
Preskar kept the Tri-Delt defense on the 
run all afternoon with her quick moves.
The Kappa defense was not to be out
classed by the offense. Kappa Kappa 
Gammas rushing middle linebackers, 
Kathy Relihan and Denise Ryan kept 
pressure on the Tri-Delt quarterback, 
Colleen Prince. All afternoon, the defense

---------------------------------------------------

November 20, 1979TARTANPage 17
Haven II introduced"Athlete of the week
//
Last year a team of closeknit dorm stu
dents from Scobell (which they re-named 
the Haven) surprised the I. M. Football 
League by making it to the major league 
semifinals. This year despite the loss of last 
years stalwart quarterback Jim Snake 
Lipot to CMU Football, they gained the 
respect of the league and were picked to 
make the playoffs once again. Not only did 
they make the playoffs this year, they 
made it past the semifinals and into the 
final game and now the I. M. Football 
Major League Championship. This is the 
first time a non-fraternity team has won in 
many years. Haven II, the name they go by 
this year, went through the season unde
feated and ended up with a 7-0 record. 
Their success is surely not due to many 
practice sessions and good organization; 
the team was lacking in both these areas. 
But what their success can be attributed to 
is good athletic ability and good know
ledge of football. Ranging from their ex
plosive offense to their stubborn defense, 
Haven II placed 5 players on first team all
stars and 4 more on second team, including 
the leagues MVP. The defense consisted of
5 players from last years squad and a new
comer. The returning cornerbacks Dave 
Tatum Schwartz and Tom Claney (first 
team all-star) effectively stopped many 
scoring opportunities with good pass 
coverage. Linebacker John Bordas and 
. safety Rocky Cersosimo (second team all
middle of the field. Marc Brown (second 
team all-star) plated his usual tough game 
as a rusher along with newcomer Ken Gustafron who did a good enough job to earn 
him first team all-star honors. The offense 
led by first team all-star quarterback and 
league MVP Rocky Cersosimo showed its 
ability to score throughout the season. 
Rockys favorite targets were returnee, Joe 
Belechak, (second team all-star) and anoth
er newcomer Ralph David whose excep
tional play earned him first team alhstar. 
Both recievers speed and good hands put 
great pressure on all defenses. V/hen defen
ses keyed on the wide receivers Rocky 
could rely on center Steve Fulton (second 
team all-star) to get open for a pass. But 
none of the scoring would have been pos
sible without the presence of two superb 
blocking backs. Another new face on the 
team Stan Stush Creslak provided great 
pass protection and now and then made 
an important catch. Tim Rushe, perennial 
first team all-star, had his usual grunting 
performance, leading many running plays 
which provided big gains for the offense. 
Others contributing to the successful sea
son were Player-coach Perry Zalensky, 
Kicker Jamie Bonomo, and super-sub 
Dave Fawcett, who played superbly as a 
starter in the playoffs, when he was called 
upon to substitute for an injured team
mate. Congratulations Haven II on a very 
fine season.
star) did a good job of clogging up the
Hockey Club drops opener
by Zip
The CMU Hockey Club opened its 
1979-80 season with a loss to Allegheny 
College at Meadville, 7 to 2. The team ap
peared disorganized at the opening, with 
Allegheny scoring the first goal only four
minutes into the first period. By the end of 
that period, CMU had yet to score and Al
legheny had already tallied 4. With no 
break between periods, the second period 
provided more of the same confusion, with
continued on page 18
NEED A RIDE 
TO THE 
AIRPORT? 
-RIDE THE 
APHIO 
SHUTTLEBUS
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 21
Leaving from:
MOREWOOD GARDENS 11:45 am 2:15 pm 4:45 pm
DONNER HALL
12:00 NOON 2:30 pm 5:00 pm
PRICE $2.50
Tickets available at the 
Skibo Information Desk
George Canepa, this week's Tartan "Athlete of the week", has been a consistent leader for Coach 
Gene Klein's soccer squad. He was named to the PAC All-Conference first team.
Coach Gene Kleins soccer team pro
duced this weeks Athlete of the Week in 
the person of George Canepa. The center 
halfback from Concord, Mass. set a school 
record for assists with seven while leading 
the Tartans to a five game winning streak, 
the longest in CMUs history, and a tie for 
second place in the PAC. As captain, 
George provided the much needed leader
ship for CMUs youthful booters that 
featured only one senior. Caiiepas efforts 
were well recognized by the PAC as he was 
elected to the PAC All-Conference First 
Team, leading the vote for midfielders in 
the process. Coach Klein commented,
George really got the offense moving. As 
center halfback (4 year starter), he was the 
quarterback of the team, and George al
ways gave 100% while playing both offense 
and defense. We will really miss him.
Soccer is by no means the only area that 
Canepa excels in, as he made All-Confe
rence twice in track, competing in the 
triple jump. A member of Tech House, 
George also finds time to maintain close to 
a 3.5 QPA in electrical engineering.
CMU will need to find another leader of 
the caliber of George Canepa if they 
expect to continue their climb to the top 
of the PAC.
Electrical Engineers Mechanical Engineers Systems Programmers
Dont miss your opportunity to interview with 
a major manufacturer of computer systems.
How important is your career to you? If you want to start big 
in the second largest computer industry in the world, come talk 
with Burroughs. The Downingtown, Pa. facility Small Systems 
Group will be recruiting future graduates in the specified areas 
of concentration:
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS BSEE/MSEE or any engineer
ing degree with programming experience. Responsibilities in
clude specification of system architecture, detail logic design of 
the systems components, documenting and debugging systems 
components and participating in system testing. Other oppor
tunities in engineering programming and power engineering.
MECHANICAL ENGINEERS - BS/MS in Mechanical 
Engineering with a broad based background in mechanical 
design with emphasis on machine design. A high level of 
creativity and ability to interface with other disciplines is 
desirable. Involvement in the research, synthesis, design and 
analysis of facsimile transmission equipment or new electro
mechanical business machines which process the handling, en
coding, protecting of financial and business documents. Acting 
as engineering support for current product lines.
SYSTEMS PROGRAMMERS - BS/Computer Science or 
BS/Math with Computer Science background. Responsibilities 
include design, implementation and debugging systems soft
ware such as compilers, diagnostics and operating systems as 
well as application programs such as API , linear programm
ing, data management systems and inventory control.
If you're stimulated by challenge and committed to your career 
you could progress to higher level positions within a few years. 
A flexible person will enjoy continued growth opportunities 
available throughout our corporate and group facilities.
We offer job related training to acclimate you thoroughly to 
Burroughs' procedures. Through presentations and special 
projects you can interface with management personnel at all 
levels.
Interested in learning more about Burroughs' career oppor
tunities and companv benefits? Include your name on our 
schedule so that we can pro>ide you with the information to 
help >ou choose your career with...Burroughs.
ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS 
December 10, 1979 
Carnegie-Mellon University Placement Office
An Equal Opportunity Employer. M/F
photo by Robert Zusman

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18TARTANNovember 20, 1979
CMU places three men on PAC starting all-star squad
Paced by all-time Bethany College scor
ing leader, John Sholhead, the 1979 Presi
dents Athletic Conference soccer team 
boasts experience, depth, youth, and most 
of all, talent.
Sholhead-who scored 34 goals for the 
Bisons won a berth on the PAC-8 coaches 
club for the third consecutive year. In addi
tion, the senior also claimed a share of the 
1979 Most Valuable Player award with 
John Carrolls Jerry Czuchraj, a sopho
more.
Bethany, which shared the 79 crown 
with John Carrollas each club ended with 
an identical 5-1 loop mark-led the list of 
stars with six Bisons gaining All-PAC-8 sta
tus. JCU and Carnegie-Mellon had three 
players each named to the honor roll.
In addition to Sholhead, seniors, Les 
Bek and Jim Regan; and sophomores, Dave 
Tomer, Paul Denfeld, and Bill Denniston 
all were selected by the loops coaches. Re
gans inclusion to the club is his second 
time, while the other Bisons are all firsttime award winners.
Czuchraj, who paced JCU with seven
scores and two assists, was joined by fellow 
Blue Streaks, Marco Iglesias, a senior, and 
junior Pete Carrol. Though not selected a 
year ago, Iglesias was a 1977 All-PAC-8 
pick.
Carnegie-Mellon, which tied with Case 
Western Reserve as each finished with 4-2 
league logs, also sent three Tartans to the 
start squad, including senior, George Canepa (seven assists), sophomore, Bob Messmer (eight goals)-a repeater from the 78 
All-PAC-8 team-and frosh goal-keeping 
sensation, Bob Farrugia (100 saves).
Case Western Reserve had a pair of 
in sophomore scoring leader, Ron Medalie 
(16 goals, 3 assists) and junior, Burce Caris, 
a first-time award-winning tandem.
The Hiram two-some of junior, Oscar 
Chaveza returnee from the 78 All-League 
contingentand senior goal-tender, Dave 
Burkey, who, like Iglesias was not selected 
in 78, but received honors in 77, round 
out the 79 All-PAC-8 soccer stars, a club 
that has all the ingredients that befit only 
the best.
John Carroll 
Bethany
Case Western Reserve
Carnegie-Mellon
Allegheny
Hiram
Washington & Jefferson
wLTGSGA
510114
510276
420108
420104
2401317
150316
060124
Icemen drop opener, 7-2
continued from page 18
Allegheny notching two more goals, to 
make it 6 to 0.
The break between the second and third 
periods provided Donny McDade - the 
chance to prove his coaching abilities by 
regrouping his team and making a come
back. McDade capitalized, and early in the 
third period rookie John Paxton sent a 
shot wide which Jeff Peters picked up, 
scoring from five feet out. Five minutes 
later, with an Allegheny player penalized, 
center Guy Reh picked up another re
bounding Paxton shot and scored on a 
backhand. Overall, CMU clearly dominated
the third period, although Allegheny 
scored again near the end, making the final 
score 7 to 2. Dave Tozar turned away 25 
shots for CMU, amidst a baffled defense, 
and CMUs offense tested the Allegheny 
net-minders with 22 shots.
The team is lead this year by former 
defense-man Donny McDade. Rookies 
include the small but tough Mike Panno 
and the hard skating John Paxton. CMU 
temporarily lost Joe ONeill, starting deffensemen, with a badly bruised shoulder * 
All in all, the team promises to be hot in 
its next outing against St. Vincents 
on November 27th.
The Intel Notebook
Careers and Technology at Intel
Focus: The Microelectronics 
Revolutionand how you can 
be part of it. 
See us on campus December 6 & 7.
Think for a minute about what microelectronics 
technology has already achieved. Yet we are 
still in the infancy of the microelectronics 
revolution. And no company is doing more to 
speed it than Intel.
CHOOSE YOUR AREA OF 
INVOLVEMENT.
We re an acknowledged leader in four major 
product areas: semiconductor memories and 
microprocessors, and microcomputer systems 
and memory systems. Plus were extending 
our leadership into data-base management.
Our success has created a wide variety of 
career opportunities in engineering, technical 
marketing, production management and 
planning, and finance.
FOUR GREAT LOCATIONS.
Weve built our facilities where the quality of 
life is high, because only in such places can we 
attract the highly skilled, highly motivated 
people we need. Thats why we can offer you 
Californias San Francisco Peninsula;
Portland, Oregon; Phoenix, Arizona; or Austin, 
Texas, each with its own intriguing lifestyle.
SIGN UP NOW.
If youre about to receive a degree in electrical 
engineering, computer science, solid-state 
physics or chemical engineering, and youd
like to help us change the way the world lives, 
wed like to talk with you. Stop by your place
ment office to sign up for interviews during our 
visit. Or if youll be unable to see us on 
campus, write to any of our locations:
California
Intel College Relations 
3065 Bowers Avenue 
Santa Clara, CA 95051
Oregon
Intel College Relations 
3585 S.W. 198th Avenue 
Aloha, OR 97005
Arizona
Intel College Relations 
5000 W. Williams Field Road 
Chandler, AZ 85224
Texas
Intel MRI/College Relations 
12675 Research Boulevard 
Austin, TX 78759
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/H.
irtU


---------------------------------------------------

classified ads
Shadyside-2 & 3 Bedroom carpeting,
laundry, spacious rooms, appliances, 
security, no pets. 682-7011.
Counter help for restaurant. Full or parttime. Shifts available: 9AM to 4PM,4PM 
to 9PM, 9PM to 4AM. Apply 3901 Forbes 
Avenue, Oakland, Original Hot Dog Shop. 
Shady side, quiet 2-bedroom apartment 
$195/monthly includes heat. 687-2650 
evenings before 10:00.
Need Cash? Collector paying $6.00 for 
$1.00 in sHver coins; $.85 for 1965-1970 
halves. Call x4806, ask for Zif.
Need roommate for furnished apartment in 
Highland Park. Immediate opening. Call 
Jeff at 362-8104.
Work Study person needed to help with
psychology experiments. 12 to 15 hours 
per week. No experience necessary. Call 
Dr. Patty Linville at 578-3598.
Lost: Computing B notebook on Wed
nesday, November 14. If found, please call 
Susan. 681-4999.
Model 33 TELETYPE w/couples $300.
Use TOPS computers from home! 421- 
6513.
2 United % Fare Coupons. Best Offer.
Anne x2107.
Wanted: Someone interested in light office
work a few hours a week (typing must be 
accurate). $3.00/hr. Contact Kathy Krummert or Karen Stevens, TARTAN Office 
or 578-2112.
Christmas Tree Decorating Contest Coming
December 13. Details on the way. For 
more information call x2107.
To the "Flying Circus": Happy Thanks
giving and all that stuffing! Love, Your L'il 
Sisters.
Mary Jo Lusnak Happy Belated Birthday
. . . The big seven . . . Love J3net and 
Doreen.
Dear Peter my little brother.
Happy 19th birthday! Your being here at 
CMU is the next best thing to us both 
being home!
Love, Jane (your big sisteF)
Desired: male student companion for
EE female. Looks-5'9" or taller, decent 
dress, attractive build. PERSONALITYdaring, inquisitive, intelligent, motivated, 
responsible.compassionate, unconfined, 
game for ingeneous excapades (with a 
touch of restraint). INTERESTS-wildlife 
music,drama,the "arts, psychology,math 
or science. Reply to Casey, CMU Box 177 
(campus mail) with an answer to: "We 
must meet - but how?"
Caseyclubs
CMU Explorers Club, it's backpacking,
climbing, hiking, cross-country skiing, 
caving, etc., we do it all. Club meetings 
are held every Thursday, 7:00 PM in Skibo, 
Room 11. Beginners and pros are welcome. 
We also have equipment (including sail
boats) for nominal rental fees available to 
the CMU community.
RENT-A-TECH has some great jobs  one
could be perfect for you!! Get valuable 
work experience and earn extra money, 
too. Here are some of the 100 jobs cur
rently available (new jobs come in daily); 
167  $4/hr. for kitchen help 
164  Prob. Stats. I tutor 
161  Put together electronics kit 
154  keypunchers needed 
149  Medical receptionist,
no experience req. 
For info on these or other jobs contact 
Rent-a-Tech in Skibo 58 or call ext. 3535. 
CMU SKI CLUB will meet for the first 
time this semester on November 29th at
8 PM in DH 1112, by the first floor main 
entrance. We will be discussing plans for 
the upcoming season. All those interested 
in skiing or those interested in learning to 
ski are welcome. All those interested are 
requested to fill out the questionnaire at 
the Skibo information desk, so as to help 
us serve you better.
The first Spring Carnival Booth meeting
will be held Tuesday, November 27, at 7 
PM in Skibo, Room 11. Every organiza
tion planning to build a booth on the 
midway should send a representative to 
this meeting.
Booth chairpersons from the partici
pating organizations will choose the theme 
this year. At the first meeting, ideas for a 
theme will be generated. Spring Carnival 
Executive Committee will then limit these 
ideas to three possible themes. Booth 
chairpersons will finally vote and approve 
the theme.
Our goal is to determine the theme by 
December 15. If your group has not ap
pointed a booth chairperson, please do so 
before November 27. Your group's input 
can make a difference. _
The Students' Dormitory Council has es
tablished office hours. Any undergraduate 
dormitory resident:*is invited to stop *by 
and find out more about SDC or to register 
a complaint about any aspect of life on 
campus. Hours are: Monday from 2:30 to 
3:30 PM, Tuesday from 12:00 to 1:00 PM 
and 6:00 to 7:00 PM, Thursday from 
12:30 to 1:30 PM and 6:30 to 7:30 PM, 
and Friday from 2:30 to 3:30 PM. Our 
office is in room 55 in Skibo, campus ex
tension x2114. Feel free to call or stop by. 
PRICELESS only costs $15.50. ( A year
book is forever) 1980 THISTLE on sale at 
Skibo Information Desk. Get one now!
Daily Mass is celebrated by the Roman 
Catholic Chaplaincy (The Univ. Oratory 
Parish) Monday through Friday at 12:30 
PM in CMU's Chapel, Skibo 39. If your 
time is limited because of the lunch hour 
please feel free to eat your lunch first and 
still receive the Eucharist. We invite the 
campus community to come and join us. 
Oakland Review will be holding an organ
izational meeting on Tuesday, November 
27, in Skibo 53 at 8 PM. Oakland Review 
is a magazine for creative writing and art, 
with special concentration on works of 
short fiction and poetry. People who are 
interested in submissions review, pro
duction, or business corrdination are 
encouraged to attend.
Get the Dean's List edge over your class -
mates. Come to the Communication 
Skills Center and for no fee whatsoever, 
we'll teach, advise, and answer questions 
in all parts of the writing process. Our 
staff works with all subject matter: .esumes, research papers, letters, applications, 
literature papers, rhetoric study, science 
assignments, and any other writing task 
you can think of.
Our Communication Skills Center, on 
the first floor of Baker Hall, is equipped 
with a library of writing books, exper
ienced and eager staff, and writing lessons 
on the computer. To top all this, we have 
prime office space with a scenic view of the 
Carnegie-Mellon campus.
We are open Monday through Friday, 
9:00 AM to 4:00 PM. Hurry. Don't be the 
last person in your class to take advantage 
of the Comm. Skills Center.
general
calling Pittsburgh Opera, (412) 281-0912. 
The Auditions are sponsored by the Na
tional Council of the Metropolitan Opera. 
Mrs. Ross W. Lappe, Auditions Director, 
urges qualified singers to act promptly in 
securing their application.
official
The Women's Center & Shelter of Greater
Pittsburgh is looking for a volunteer 
illustrator, or cartoonist to illustrate a small 
booklet that deals with kids in a crisis. If 
interested call Kate Bronislowski  
661 -6066.
Poetry Workshop  alternate Saturdays
1:30-3:30 PM; Squirrel Hill Library. For 
further information call 521-1540.
Artists! Lay aside your brushes and pa
lettes, abandon your wheels, chisels, and 
looms-just for a momentand send now 
for your entry application to the 1980 
Three Rivers Arts Festival to be held June
6 through June 15 in Pittsburgh's Gateway 
Center. One of the city's major annual ce
lebrations, last year the Festival drew over 
250,000 local and out-of-town visitors. 
More than 1,000 artists entered the Juried 
Visual Arts Exhibit, and this year more 
entries are expected owing to several 
planned changes.
To recieve an application, send two first 
class stamps and your name and address to: 
Three Rivers Arts Festival, 4400 Forbes 
Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Forms 
will be mailed early in January.
Do you want to work for the Social 
Security Administration? Social Security 
Administration is implementing its own 
recruiting system which does not require 
the usual test. During 1980, the Social 
Security Administration will hire more 
than 1,000 persons to occupy Claims 
Representative positions nationwide. If 
you are interested in a career of service to 
the public with promotional opportunities, 
contact any Social Security office, or tele
phone 281-0322, and ask for a "CRESS" 
application before December 3, 1979.
The Pittsburgh District Metropolitan Opera
Auditions will be held at the CarnegieMellon University Fine Arts building on 
Sunday, January 27, 1980. Qualified sing
ers can obtain an application form for the 
Auditions by writing to Metropolitan 
Opera Auditions, 3121 Bethel Church 
Road, Bethel Park, PA 15102; or, by
The date for the Final Examination in
Programmed French 82-107 will be Wed
nesday, December 19 from 8:30 AM to 
11:30 AM in Baker Hall 232 F.
Entropy will be closed during Thanksgiving
vacation from November 21-25. We will 
reopen on November 26 at 10:30 AM. 
Attention Students: The Cashier's Office 
will be closed for Thanksgiving on Novem
ber 22 and 23, so you may pick up your 
paychecks on Wednesday, November 21. 
John P. Crecine, Dean of College of Hu
manities and Social Sciences will have open
office hours for students on Tuesday from 
1:30 PM to 3:30 PM.
scholarships
Women students who are currendy com
pleting their junior year and who plan to 
study abroad in the summer between their 
junior and senior years are eligible to apply 
for the VIRA L. HEINZ TRAVEL AWARD. This award provides $2500 to a 
woman student at CMU through the 
Pittsburgh Foundation as a result of a 
gift of Mrs. Vira L. Heinz, a trustee emerita. Application forms are available in Dean 
Cox's office. Room 204, Warner Hall. The 
deadline for submitting completed appli
cations is January 31. Applicants will be 
requested to be present for an interview 
with the Selection Committee on February 
15. The award will be announced immed
iately thereafter.
Events, announcements and Classifieds: 
Deadline is Wednesday at 5 PM. No late 
announcements or classifieds will be ac
cepted.
Classified must be typed or printed 
neatly on 8 x 11 inch paper. Payment 
must be made either by cash or check. 
Classifieds over $5.00 may be billed to 
you.
Events and Announcements must be 
submitted before Wednesday at 5 PM and 
must be typed or written neatly on 8 x 11 
inch paper. The criteria for selecting an
nouncements for publication is as follows:
1) The event or announcement must be 
open to the whole campus community
2) The event or announcement must be 
of general interest and not for the benefit 
of a very limited group of people.
Because of limitations, the TARTAN 
cannot guarantee placement of any an 
nouncement or event. The editors and 
staff will attempt in good faith to include 
all announcements and events which 
meet the above criteria.
Classified Rates: Ads are $.10 per 
word. Announcements an free to campus 
or non-profit organizations.
\
lii.Pu.W.tUl.i by R
UU D 
G IE
ANNUALMUDGECASINO-DISCO
NOVEMBER 309 PM TO 1 AM

---------------------------------------------------

music
Upcoming Concerts 
Danny Kresky Enterprises 
December 2 The Who at the Civic 
Arena.
Dicesare-Engler
November 26 Fleetwood Mac at
the Civic Arena.
November 27 Jefferson Starship at
the Stanley.
Electric Factory Concerts 
November 23  The Outlaws, Molly 
Hatchet, and John 
Cougar at the Civic
Arena.
November 30 and December 1
Grateful Dead at the Stanley.
Holiday House 
Route 22, Monroeville.
November 18-22- The Sylvers
November 23- December 8-The Lettermen
December 9-16- Al Martino
December 17-22- Peaches and Herb
For more information call 351-1385.
November 20 at 8 PM
Jewish Community Center, Oakland
The CMU Philharmonic, conducted by 
Istran Jaray, will perform.
November 23 at 8:30 PM 
November 24 at 8:00 PM 
November 25 at 2:30 PM 
Heinz Hall, Downtown
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra fea
turing Elma Oliveira, violinist, will perform 
selections from Beethoven's Eighth, Gla
zunov, and Shostakovich. Sergiu Comissiona will conduct. For information call 
281-5000.
November 27 at 8 PM 
Alumni Concert Hall, CFA
Symphonic Wind Ensemble, conducted 
by Robert Page.
November 30 at 8 PM 
Alumni Concert Hall, CFA
Max Peterson will conduct the Chamber 
Singers.
December 3 at 8:30 PM 
Carnegie Institute Lecture Hall
The Pittsburgh Chamber Music Society 
presents the Primavera String Quartet.
For more information call 624-4129.
December 4 at 8 PM 
Ellsworth at Neville, Shadyside
The Bach Choir of Pittsburgh under the 
direction of W. William Wagner, presents 
The Christmas Story, A Ceremony of 
Carols, & Christmas Day. Tickets are 
$3.00, and are available at the Church of 
the Ascension, or at the door on the night 
of the performance.
December 7-8 at 8 PM.
Stanley Theatre, Downtown.
The triumphant return of the smash 
Broadway musical Jesus Christ Superstar
comes to Pittsburgh for two performances 
only. Tickets are $8.75 and $9.75. Tickets 
available at the Stanley Box Office, 
Kaufmann's, and National Record Marts.
December 9 at 4 PM 
Heinz Hall, Downtown
The Pittsburgh Symphony Society presents 
Vladimir Horowitz. Tickets range from 
$7.50 to $30. For ticket information call 
281-5000.arts
November 10 - December 2 
PPA Gallery, 407 S. Craig Street
The Pittsburgh Plan for Art announces an 
exhibit of the works of two local artists, 
Peter Calaboyias (sculptor) and Delbert 
Highlands (painter). Gallery hours are 
Tuesday to Saturday 10 to 5, Sunday 
1 to 5. Free admission.
November 20 to 25 
Forbes Avenue and Margaret Morrison 
Frances Roman, Kathy Costello, and 
Leeann Conley present their work in 
Fibers and Paintings at the Forbes Street 
Gallery. The gallery is open Tuesday 
through Sunday 12:30 to 4:30, and Tues
day, Wednesday and Thursday nights 
from 7 to 9 PM.
Through November 30 
Chatham College Library Art Gallery 
Don Reitz, sculptor, presents ''Ceramic 
Events in laytex and clay. Gallery hours 
are Tuesday through Sunday 2 to 5 PM, 
Friday 7 to 9 PM. Closed November 21 
to 25.
Through November 30 
Downtown Gallery- Ivy School of Profess
ional Art
A two-man photography exhibit featuring 
works by Edward Kabanec and Jim 
Papariello will be on display. Free admis
sion.
Through January 1980 
Carnegie Institute
"Printmaking in Europe will run through 
January 31 in Gallery 10. The Pittsburgh 
International Series, featuring artists 
Chillida and deKooning, will be on view in 
Galleries 12, A,B,C,D and the Entrance 
gallery through January 6. Museum hours 
are 10 AM to 5 PM Tuesday through Satur
day, and LPM to 5 PM on Sundays. Closed 
Mondays.films
Pittsburgh Playhouse Theatre Center 
Craft Avenue, Oakland
This week's film repertory includes Tues
day, Farenheit 451; Wednesday. Auntie 
Maine *10:00; Friday, Moonraker *9:45;
Saturday, Days of Heaven; Sunday, Show
boat; Monday, The Turning Point *9:40. 
All shows are shown at 7:30 and 9:30 PM 
except second show where noted. Admis
sion is $2.50.
November 20 at 8 PM
Carnegie Institute Lecture Hall
The Jean Renoir series continues with The
Diary of a Chambermaid. Admission is
$1.50.
November 25 at 7:30 PM 
Carnegie Institute Lecture Hall
Casque D'Or will be presented. Admission 
is $1.50.
November 26 at 7PM 
Hunt Multipurpose Room
King Lear with Paul Scofield. Admission 
$1.25theater
November 14 - December 23 
Allegheny Theatre, North Side
The Pittsburgh Public Theatre will present 
Anton Chekhov's comedy, The Seagull. 
For ticket information, call 765-3400. 
November 16December 13 
Babcock Boulevard
Opening the Bevery Hills Playhouse season 
will be the presentation of The Lady Who 
Cried Fox. Tickets are available for a 
dinner/theatre package or just for the 
show. Call 931-9976 for more information. 
December 15- January 6 
Craft Avenue, Oakland.
The Playhouse Junior's upcoming pro
duction of Charles Dickens' A Christmas 
Carol will premiere a new adaptation by 
Thomas Hischak of the classic novel. 
This special holiday production will be 
played in the Pittsburgh Playhouse Hamlet 
Street Theatre. Some shows are sold out, 
and reservations for remaining tickets 
are encouraged by calling 621-4445.special
WQED -Channel 
November 20 
November 21 
November 22 
November 23 
November 24 
13 HIGHLIGHTS
Nova: India; Machinery 
of Hope (8 PM)
World: Hong Kong; The 
Arrival of Boat 845 (10
PM)
Camera Three (7 PM) 
Great Performances: Ormandy at 80 (8 PM) 
Panther Night (9 PM) 
The Great Cherub Knit
wear Strike (8 PM)
Monty Python's Flying 
Circus (10 PM) 
Mountbatten: A Man for 
the Century, Part 2 (10 
PM)
Firing Line: "Is There a 
Role for the Private Col
lege (5PM)
Hollywood Musicals (9
PM)
November 25 
November 26
Monty Python (11 PM) 
Soundstage featuring 
Chick Corea (11:30 PM) 
Masterpiece Theater:
Love for Lydia (9 PM) 
Edward the King, Part 4 
(10 PM)
Song by Song (9 PM) 
The Predators (10 PM)
Through November 25
Phipps Conservatory, Schenley Park
The 1979 Fall Flower Show featuring more 
than 60,000 individual fall blooms, var
ieties of chrysanthemums and a threering circus returns to the conservatory 
after a 2.5 million dollar restoration. 
Hours are 10 AM to 5 PM and 7 PM to
9 PM seven days a week. Admission is free 
on Saturdays.
November 26 at 6 PM 
Heinz Hall, Downtown.
The Chinese Acrobats and Magicians of 
Taiwan return to perform their breath
taking feats and unbelievable magic. 
Tickets are $8, $7, $9. For information 
call 281-8185.
November 26 at 7:30 PM 
Carlow College, Oakland 
"The Source, the Course, the Force, a 
futuristic debate on whether or not this 
generation of college students will be 
using nuclear energy to get where they 
want to go. Main lobby, Frances Warde 
Hall. For information call 578-6170. 
December 1 at 6:30 PM 
Morewood Gardens Recreation Room 
The Carnegie Mellon University Interna
tional Student Organization presents "A 
Taste of India, first in a series of Interna
tional Dinner and Discussion Nights. Ap
petizers begin at 6:30 PM, Indian Dinner 
at 7 PM, Presentation and Discussion at 
8 PM, Party at 9 PM. Everyone is welcome. 
Tickets are $4.50 in advance, $5 at the 
door. For tickets and information call 
578-3042.
December 6-9 
Craft Avenue, Oakland.
The American Dance Ensemble presents 
Nutcracker. For advance ticket informa
tion call 621-4445.
December 7 at 8 PM 
Heinz Hall, Downtown.
Fred Waring and the Young Pennsylvan
ians will present "The Best of Best. 
Tickets are $9,$8,$7. For information 
call 281-8185.
Through February 15,1980 
Hunt Institute
"The Tradition of Fine Bookbinding in 
the Twentieth Century. an exhibit of ap
proximately 100 bookbindings, will be 
held at the Hunt Institute for Botanical 
Documentation. The gallery is free and 
open to the public, Mondays through Fri
days from 9 AM to 5 PM.
Drop your nuts 
and get 
your tail...
over to the
TARTAN
Come to
Skibo 50

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

DOSSIER
yst
Let the Great'X' Haircutters 
identify the real YOU with a 
Unique Precisinn Haircut!
A precision cut at Great "X" means 
that we cut your hair naturally  
the way that it grows. So it holds 
its shape longer and stays in place 
better than any other haircut 
you've ever had. That's why 
Great "X" has more than 100 
stores across the country ready 
to help you identify yourself.
HAIRCUTS
(Wash-Cut-Blow)
II00
Mon. Tue*. Wed. 10-7 
Thur. Frl. 10-9 
Sat. 9-
COLORING
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
PERMANENTS
237 Atwood Street 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213 
687-3500
UNISEX HAIR SALON
25o
NO
APPOINTMENTS
***************************************************************************************************
THE DEVELOPMENT OFFICE 
ANNOUNCES ITS
1st ANNUAL 
STUDENT PHON-A-THON
TO BENEFIT
CMU ANNUAL FUND
 Funds raised to be used for student needs e
ALL CAMPUS ORGANIZATIONS ARE INVITED 
TO PARTICIPATE IN THIS WORTHWHILE, 
EXCITING PROJECT WHICH WILL BENEFIT 
ALL WHO TAKE PART.
PRIZES WILL BE AWARDED
Phon-A-Thon to take place:
January 7-10 
January 14-17
PIZZA & BEVERAGES FROM 6:00 - 6:45 p.m. 
TELEPHONE BEGINS AT 7:00 UNTIL 9:00 p.m.
If your group of 20 is interested contact - 
KIM SUSKO x2020 5th Floor Warner Hall
REGISTER 
BEFORE DECEMBER 17!   !
***********************************************************
It seems hard to believe that the 
semester is almost over and that the 
dreaded time of year is almost upon 
usFINALS. Bui look on the bright 
side; Christmas is coming and two 
weeks of lazy leisure. But right now, 
take a few minutes to glance through 
Dossier. You won't have to think 
too hard and we know you'll enjoy 
it.
HAPPY HOLLY DAYS!!!
As we approach the new decade, we 
thought it would be interesting to 
look back at CMU when they were 
approaching the last decadethe 
70's. We found some things that 
may surprise you.
Were you prepared for CMU? Mau
reen Brennan gives us some insight 
into what it takes and if anybody is 
ever really prepared for the life that 
is CMU.
HAPPY HOLIDAYS from DOSSIER
Who is that masked woman? Erin 
Clark, of course. Louise Molnar gives 
us a peek at the lady and her beauti
ful creations.
Most of us buy our Christmas cards 
in a store because we lack either the 
time or the talent (or both) to create 
our own designs. But this month we 
have a selection of unique Christmas 
cards designed by famous artists for 
their personal use.
Namibia? Bill Kapner takes us to 
one of the most beautiful and strife 
ridden countries in Africa.
Art and TechnologyAt CMU it 
seems that never the twain shall 
meet;" but, Andy Epstien talks 
about how this vital combination 
produces "the moving canvas."
Do you have an uncle in New York? 
If not, pretend you do with Andy 
Judkis's short story My Uncle 
in New York."
Well it's Christmas time again and it 
probably seems like you'U never get 
any shopping done with finals and 
all. Lisa Amowitz and Louise Mol
nar offer some helpful hints for your 
Christmas shopping at the Bank Cen
ter.
je***************************************
Editor: Susan Borg 
Art Director: Tom Hart 
Louise Molnar, Georgeanne Cherpes 
Robert Zusman, Fran Arsht 
Jenny McChesney, Barry Debsky 
Tom Megalis

---------------------------------------------------

w CMU is a pretty mild-mannered, conservativeiiplace these days. But would you believe that just
ten years ago, as we stood on the threshold of 
1970 radicals and anarchists were rampant, The 
TARTAN had a political insert called OOPs, and 
h students were anti-America, anti-war and anti- l CMU. It was the peace and love generationeven
here. This collage is taken from the TARTAN of 
1969-70. Its pretty clear that both the look bt (notice the Super TARTAN logo!!) and content
( a molotov cocktail with a coke bottle and ani: 'a American flag?) were quite different. CMU must k be different too. The question, thoughjis^ie 
I change for the better or the worse?
DAVID SCHWARTZ 
New Director of Academic Affair' 
Photo by Karp ^
e&e>v
*AUiUtu o r

---------------------------------------------------

4.
were you
prepared'"CMU?
o "Idinn tinI
"I didnt know what a bagel was before I 
came to CMU!"
Bagels nothing, the first Jewish person I 
met was my freshman roommate. Now some of 
my best friends are Jewish. My mom could 
handle the request for bagels over Christmas 
break, but when I came home at Easter looking 
for matza. . ."
"It took a long time for me to admit that I 
was not on financial aid."
I couldnt get over the lack of authority; I 
kept expecting someone to jump out of the 
woodwork and yell at me."
Nobody warned me that Pittsburgh 
smelled."
Well, what about you? Were you prepared 
for CMU? Did you realize they were serious 
when they said The Professional Choice?" 
Had you anticipated peers who carried brief
cases? Or getting 50 out of 100 on a test, and 
finding out it's a C? You can't help v/ondering 
ing what happened to all those terrific high 
school grades. . . especially when you find out 
that there was someone who got 100% on that 
same test. Suddenly you feel dumb, and you 
begin to wonder if the rest of the world is 
Smarter than you.
All your life you'd heard about how it was 
out there in the real world". Over the years 
you dreamed a lot, sometimes you worked 
hard, but in the back of your mind you won
dered whether or not you'd be able to make it 
out there." Lo and behold, you came to Carnegie-Mellon, and you thought, My God, can 
the rest of the world be like this?"
Now you've relaxed a little, and the diversity 
of the high quality people and programs here 
no longer throws you. Everything from your 
morals and political views to your memory and 
creativity has been tested. Sometimes you even 
entertain the thought of what it would be like
to major in Opera, or perhaps in Biomed
ical Engineering. Most importantly^, youve 
come to realize that whether or not you can 
hack the life at CMU may be completely 
unrelated to how you could hack it elsewhere. 
That's worth at least a smirk of satisfaction.
But what about those people that don't 
make it? Was it the academic pressure, the lack 
of social life, a bad roommate situation that 
prompted their exit? Obviously being prepared 
to be happy and succeed at CMU involves 
much more than sheer talent. Bill Elliott, 
Head of Admissions, feels that only 30-35% of 
the college experience is spent in formal 
education. He recognizes that the student 
spends much more energy adjusting emotion
ally to the environment than adjusting academ
ically. Although college success comes from 
high school achievement, it is impossible to 
predict the students motivation and willing
ness to adapt and respond to the demands of 
college. For these reasons he feels that the kw 
attrition rate here need not be emphasized.
There is a good deal of responsibility laid on 
a senior in high school preparing to choose a 
college. As Bill Elliott said, We cant admit 
anyone who hasnt applied!" Most students 
who are accepted here have applied to five or 
six other universities, and probably were 
accepted at three or four of them. From that 
point its up to the applicant to do their 
homework and make a choice.
As we all remember, once the Admissions 
Office gets a name on their mailing list, they 
send out phenomenal amounts of literature, 
This school has a highly selective admissions 
process, and even for those who are accepted, 
it is important to receive all the information 
that can be absorbed to help in the decision 
process.
The importance of various factors taken into 
consideration in the acceptance process differs
between colleges. In the College of Fine Arts 
the distribution of SAT scores is very high, but 
is no prediction of their ability to succeed; on 
the whole, portfolios and auditions are the 
deciding factors. It is interesting to note 
however, that although the national average 
SAT score is 420 Math, 420 Verbal, the average 
score for those in CFA is 570 math. 570 
Verbal.
In engineering and science, high school 
grades and class rank are the most important 
factors. Different institutions are of different 
academic levels, and so on the whole, class rank 
is important. As such, coming from a private or 
a public school offers no advantage or disad
vantage. Because the achievement tests taken 
by CIT and MIS prospectives directly reflect 
ability in their area of interest, these scores are 
weighed more heavily than SAT results. In 
H&SS, on the other hand, class rank and SAT 
scores are most specifically important.
There was quite an assortment of comments 
when I began to question people about 
whether they were prepared for CMU, but by 
far the most common response was a grunt and 
a smile followed by Are you kidding?" I 
could hardly have expected people to tell 
me how smart and well adjusted they were, but 
still the reactions surprised me. It's easy to 
come here and be ovewhelmed by the freedom, 
the atmosphere of academic excellence, the 
diversity in people and attitudes, and all the 
pressures that go hand in hand. These will 
affect everyone differently, yet it takes some 
time to realize that everyone else was just as 
unprepared in some way.
Bill Elliott offered some unique insight to 
this struggle, and to what can be learned from 
it. There is so much material that can be 
learned and absorbed in life, much more than
continued on page 14
nf Dcmb 
7)M URE 1EtU 
c3 URE 
,c19m WE 
9yvE URyt2

---------------------------------------------------

.5
.?il THE JEuietfth DRV OF FiriflLS 
my old prof gave to me.........................................
fcy
 
12 computers running11 students typing10 mornings oversleeping
9 techies glancing8 grades a sinking7 Mr. Coffees a brimming 
'r <V-- '
6 brothers relaying
b ^ 'n<9<2^  Ssv/^i/f
/. Yeln... wht cloi>i|V?
-xneed  E.yp3.ftr..l...
8 afoscK l*\u
ile. bac AtHfneVwSfi.
3 broken pens
5 moldy things4 bawling nerds
2 none of the aboves
)8
W8 78
and a cartridge of a fortran that will never be
bappty 4 banakkabI
bappty banukkabl
$ bapp^ baocikkab I 
baocikkabl 9

---------------------------------------------------

e.
GOING INTO MASSE
October 1979: Senior Design Studios, Baker 
Hall. While waiting for a ride somewhere, 
I stop in to see Erin Clark and receive a great 
surprise: this lady had created the most dazzling 
collection of costume ball masks imaginable. 
The contents of her old hatbox is an amazing 
cache of feather, fringe,beads, braid and glitter. 
Some are elegant movie-star-incognito: there is 
a black glittery one crowned with a tall black 
delicately curved feather. Near the tip of the 
feather is a tiny droplet of rhinestone. There is 
a white one trimmed in satiny white fringe also 
topped with a curved white feather. Another 
black one dripping in rhinestone-sprinkled 
black lace. A peacock feather lends its irides
cence to another. Another part of the collec
tion consists of bird masks, some with finely 
constructed beaks, others so profusely feathered 
that they disguise the wearers face almost 
totally. There are assorted other designs as well, 
experimental, showy, delightful, some bizarre. 
Of course there is also the original: that opulent 
white owl-mask, with its tiny white feathers 
delicately curving in to brush the cheeks, all 
meticulously mounted by the fingers of Erin 
Clark.
ERIN CLARK:
November 1979: again at Erin's studio: Red
maned and effervescent, clad in new French 
jeans and one of those great blouses she finds" 
for small prices everywhere, Erin is relating the 
story of her Beaux Arts Ball costume, also the 
story of the birth of her mask collection:
Last year at Beaux Arts Ball. . . I didnt 
know what to do for a costume. So I got this 
white dress at an antique storea slip at an 
outragious price, and I thought, well this is 
real nice. I found a pair of old shoes and 
thought, this will go with it just fine. I 
what else do I do? Someone's going to bring 
me some gardenias and that will be it. So I 
thought. . . I'll make a face mask!
I went downtown and collected the inggredients: a white half-maskI forget the
name for themand went to the different mil
liners shops. At Betsey Coleman I found a 
beautiful feather. I went to Dorothys Mil
linery and found another beautiful feather. 
I was looking for little. . . hackle feathers 
theyre called. . . feathers for around the neck, 
and I couldnt find any so I went into this 
little shop that sells a lot of junk like combs 
and things. I saw these flowers that were 
marlp nut of feathers on combs. I bought them and I took them apart!
Then I went home the same day this was 
all on Saturday that I did all this stuffI went 
home and everybody around the house was 
preparing for Beaux Arts. I went upstairs and 
hid myself in my room. . . got out the old 
Spra-Mount and used some regular white glue 
we had around the house. . . and I just took 
those suckers apart and stuck them all together 
and put glitter all over it and there was my 
mask! It was one of the nicest I'd seenI 
couldnt have bought one like it.
March 3, 1979: Beaux Arts Ball: A statu
esque red-haired young woman swathed in 
sleek satiny white...curiously (and perhaps 
furiously?) alone. Her face remains a white 
enigma behind that snow owl mask...the 
mysterious Erin X.
by Louise E. Molnar

---------------------------------------------------

80
In September Erin was approached by a 
friendNvho was interested in purchasing two 
masks to give as wedding presents to a couple 
being married on Halloween. Erin set about 
creating a collection of samples, excited about 
her first commission, and challenged by the 
project of creating a male mask for the groom, 
since up until that time she'd only done fe
male masks. She made another trip downtown 
for feathers, and also stockpiled the half-masks 
in various colours. Her studio space became her 
mask factory and as curious friends stopped in, 
the word was out and fame spread.
Offers started coming in.
You know, I'd rather not sell them...I really 
like them. I'd like to keep them for myself." 
she told me. But its better for me to make 
one knowing that somebodys going to buy 
it, because its a lot easier to part with." Many 
of the masks in her permanent collection are 
made of pieces Erin has collected over the 
years, salvaged, from her mothers closets and 
boxes, from antique stores, and who knows 
where. The masks serve the purpose of giving 
these favourite knicknacks a functional exis
tence. Recently, though, Erins bag of orna
mental goodies disappeared from her work
space, so she welcomes anyone with materials 
or information on materials to donate or sell 
for a reasonable price. Feathers, especially are 
to come by.
The uniqueness of her materials also pre
cludes the exact re-creating of any of her 
designs. There had been offers to buy the 
original owl-mask or a copy, but Erin had to 
refuse on the grounds that the feathers were 
not to be found again and because, frankly, she 
doesn't feel that it is possible to successfully 
reproduce a model. She does however do vari
ations on her themes, and usually each varia
tion is more exciting than its predecessors. 
Thus the masks are all individual entities, often 
with names like Bette Davis, Voodoo, and 
Sarah Bernhardt.
When doing a mask on commission she en
courages the client to bring any personal orna
ments that could be incorporated into the de
sign and thus make the mask more personal to 
its owner. The more one-of-a-kind feathers and 
ornaments she uses from her own supplies is re
flected in the price, starting at $20. She doesnt 
buy her materials in huge quantity; the origin
ality of design and exquisite workmanship attest 
to her personal involvement with each piece.
In 1980, Erin hopes to head for New York, 
and may show her collection at Fiorucci. She 
has already sparked some interest downtown at 
Saks for use in window display. Anyone inter
ested right now in viewing her masks can find 
her in Baker Hall, the junior/senior design 
studios, second door on the right. If this 
venture continues to fly as it has durihg these 
last few months, New Year's Eve will be a 
very appropriate time to be masked in Erin 
Clark plumage.
The only problem with it was that 
of the dime-store mask was very itchy and un
comfortable. In May and June, when she 
attempted four new models, she solved this 
problem by lining the backs of the masks with 
soft leather chamois. It was at this time that 
Erin started to consider going into massk 
production...for fun and profit"
PRODUCTION

---------------------------------------------------

This Season's Choice
HAPPY 
HAPPY 
HAPPY 
HAPPY 
HAPPY 
HAPPY 
HAPPY 
HAPPY 
HAPPY 
HAPPY 
HAPPY 
HAPPY 
HAPPY 
HAPPY 
HAPPY 
HAPPY 
HAPE 
R 
HAS 
HA] 
HAPl 
HAPF 
HAPP" 
HAPPY 
HAPPY 
HAPPY 
HAPPY 
HAPPY 
HAPPY
HOLIDAYS HAPPY HOLIDAYS 
HOLIDAYS HAPPY HOLIDAYS 
HOLIDAYS HAPPY HOLIDAYS H 
HOLIDAYS HAPPY HOLIDAYS H 
HOLIDAYS HAPPY HOLIDAYS H 
HOLIDAYS HAPPY HOLIDAYS H 
HOLIDAYS HAPPY HOLIDAYS H 
HOLIDAYS HAPPY HOLIDAYS H 
HOLIDAYS HAPPY HOLIDAYS H 
HOLIDAYS HAPPY HOLIDAYS H 
HOLIDAYS HAPPY HOLIDAYS H 
HOLIDAYS HAPPY HOLIDA 
HOLIDAYS HAPPY 
HOLIDAYS 
HOLIDAY
K
Hi
HG
HOL
HOLi
HOLIL
HOLID*
HOLIDA
HOLIDAY
HOLIDAY!
HOLIDAYS
HOLIDAYS
HOLIDAYS
HOLIDAYS
HOLIDAYS
HOLIDAYS
HOLIDAYS
HOLIDAYS
HOLIDAYS
HOLIDAYS
HOLIDAYS
HOLIDAYS
HOLIDAYS
HOLIDAYS
HOLIDAYS
HOLIDAYS
HOLIDAYS
HOLIDAYS
HOLIDAYS
HOLIDAYS
HOLIDAY;
HOLIDAYS
o"Idin
HOLIDAY
HOLIDA'
HOLIDA
HOLIDA
HOLID/
HOLIDAYS
HOLIDAYS
HOLIDAYS
HOLIDAYS
HOLIDAYS
HOLIDAYS
HOLIDAYS
HOLIDAYS
HOLIDAYS
HOLIDAYS urra m i vc
. i HC 
, xiAPPY HC 
hYS HAPPY HC 
-xULIDAYS HAPPY HC 
hab HOLIDAYS HAPPY HC 
HAPPY HOLIDAYS HAPPY H<
tkwwh tabgekhl tkwwh t 
s tkwwh o"Idinf irrn 
"OLIDAYS HAPPY HOLIDAYS HAPPY P 
^UDAYS Happy holidays HAPPY 
Nf- ataifiSXH0LIDAYS HAPPY g___S HAPPY HOLIDAYS HAPJel s
HOLIDAYS HAPPY HOLIDAYS HAPPY 
HAPPY HOLIDAYS HAPPY 
LIDAYS HAPPY 
^^SHAPPY
t.4
&
h^i :
tkwwh ta"cImC
tkwwh tabgekhl tMC C
tkwwh tabgekhl tkwwh ta"ImU
HAPPY HOLIDAYS HAPPY HOLIDAYS ^ _
HAPPY HOLIDAYS HAPPY HOLIDAYS HAPPY HOla^.
HAPPY HOLIDAYS HAPPY HOLIDAYS HAPPY HOLIDAYS HA 
HAPPY HOLIDAYS HAPPY HOLIDAYS HAPPY HOLIDAYS HAPPY HOLIl^*.
HAPPY HOLIDAYS HAPPY HOLIDAYS HAPPY HOLIDAYS HAPPY HOLIDAYS HAPb i 
HAPPY HOLIDAYS HAPPY HOLIDAYS HAPPY HOLIDAYS HAPPY HOLIDAYS HAPPY tabgei ! m C 
cirr wni.inflYS HAPPY HOLIDAYS--* irr uni in i B cirr uni rnavc cirr wnr.TnAVC cirr
HULlL/n 
HOLIDAYS HAPPY HOLlUai^ 
HOLIDAYS HAPPY HOLIDAYS 
HOLIDAYS HAPPY HOLIDAYS 
IDAYS HAPPY HOLIDAYS 
HAPPY HOLIDAYS 
JPY HOLIDAYS 
>PY HOLIDAYS 
3PY HOLIDAYS 
IPPY HOLIDAYS 
PY HOLIDAYS 
APPY HOLIDAYS
gkwwh o"Idin
IAPPY HOLIDAYS 
HAPPY HOLIDAYS 
HAPPY HOLIDAYS 
. HAPPY HOLIDAYS 
i HAPPY HOLIDAYS 
S HAPPY HOLIDAYS 
S HAPPY HOLIDAYS 
,rS HAPPY HOLIDAYS 
/S HAPPY HOLIDAYS 
YS HAPPY HOLIDAYS 
iYS HAPPY HOLIDAYS 
AYS HAPPY HOLIDAYSA VC 14APPV HOT TnAVS

---------------------------------------------------

irrn o"Idinf irrn o"Idinf irrn o"Idinf irrn o"Idinf tkwwh tabgekhltkwwh tabgekh,
HAPPY HOLIDAYS HAPPY HOLIDAYS HAPPY HOLIDAYS HAPPY HOLIDAYS HAPPY HOLIDAYSHAPPY----
tkwwh tabgekhl tkwwh tabgekhl tkwwh tabgekhl tkwwh tabgekhl tkwwh tabgekhlcmmg
irrn o"Idinf irrn o"Idinf irrn o"Idinf irrn o"Idinf irrn tag J p
tkwwh o"Idinf irrn o"Idinf irrn o"Idinf irrn o"Idinf irrn tw 
irrn o"Idinf irrn o"Idinf irrn o"Idinf irrn o"Idinf irrn M 
irrn o"Idinf irrn o"Idinf irrn o"Idinf irrn o"Idinf irrn Hi
HAPPY F ~ TT> n^0 cirr tayCgekhl tkwwh tabgekhl tkwwh t.irrn
HAPPY F
irrn g 
irrn g 
irrn g
HAPPY]
HAPPY
irrn
HAPPY
irrn
irrn
irrn
irrn
irrn
HAPPY
irrm
HAPP'
HAPP'
HAPP'
HAPP
HAPP
HAPF
HAPF
HAPI
HAP1
ir
HAPr
iam unl
4
THE OL'
>1
3i 
Dj 
DA1 
DAT 
DA'*
DAY!
DAYi 
iDAYS 
IDAYS 
IDAYS 
.IDAYS 
Ngekhl tN
.IDAYS fr inflvq HAI -.IDAYS HAI 
LIDAYS HAP? 
LIDAYS HAPI 
LIDAYS hap]T.inivc ^
)LIDAYS HAPPY 
jIDAYS HAPPY 
IDAYS HAPPY 
[DAYS HAPPY 
[DAYS HAPPY 
)AYS HAPPY 
)AYS HAPPY 
csbm HAPPY 
IYS HAPPY 
Cbm HAPPY 
rS HAPPY rs HAPPY 
HAPPY 
HAPPY 
i HAPPY 
>PY 
3PY 
IAPPY 
5PY 
3PY 
5PY
:lun
1 --
HAPPY HOLIDAYS HAPPY HOLIDAYS 
HAPPY HnT.TDAVqHflPDvjI--- -
HA
HAPPY HOLID, 
HAPPY HOLID. 
HAPPY HOLIDAY 
HAPPY HOLIDA 
HAPPY HOLIDA^ 
HAPPY HOLIDAY 
HAPPY HOLIDA 
HAPPY HOLIDAY 
HAPPY HOLIDAY 
HAPPY HOLIDAY. 
HAPPY HOLIDAY!: 
HAPPY HOLIDAY 
HAPPY HOLIDAY! 
HAPP'
HAPF 
HAPF 
HAPP"
HAPP1 
HAPP]
HAPP]
HAP1 
HAPI 
HAP1 
HAP]
HAPI 
HAPI 
HAP 
HAP
iru
H.
HAI 
HA1 
Hi
Wfcunaka--:Pi
I
HAP0Y 
r iOLIDAYS HAPPY 
"HAPPY HOLIDAYS HAPPY 
rLIDAv^L^Y HOLIDAYS HAPPY 
>Y HOLIDAYS HAPPY 
[Y HOLIDAYS HAPPY 
Iy HOLIDAYS HAPPY 
HOLIDAYS HAPPY 
HOLIDAYS HAPPY 
M HOLIDAYS HAPPY 
HOLIDAYS HAPPY 
HOLIDAYS HAPPY 
HOLIDAYS HAPPY 
HOLIDAYS HAPPY 
HOLIDAYS Hi 
LHOLU
.-Let
.- vou mcrr
qs v tirrn Hoy____ L* JBR HAPP C HOLIDAYS Hj
_ HAPPY HOLIDAYS HAPPY HOLID/ "
HAPPY HOLIDAYS HAPPY HOLIDAYS HAPF 
>PY HOLIDAYS HAPPY HOLIDAYS HAPPY HOLI^
^AppvjjnT.TnAv.q HAPJ
4
fl]
LI]
.ID 
.ID/1 
.ID 
IDA 
,IDA^ 
|LIDA 
iLIDAYi 
iLIDAYS 
iLIDAYS 
ILIDAYSU 
iLIDAYS 
iLIDAYS 
[OLIDAYS H 
iOLIDAYS Hi 
[OL*
[OL:
NOLI 
[OLI 
OLI 
HOLI 
HOLI 
HOLI1 
HOLI1 
HOLII 
HOLII 
|Y HOLIE
Y HOLIE 
|JY HOLID
Y HOLID 
PY HOLID 
}PY HOLID 
>PY HOLID 
>PY HOLIDi 
fJPY o"IdE
?PY HOLID/
JPPY HOLIDA 
&PY HOLIDA
fOi
tabgekhl ciozc
HAPPY 
iOLIDAYS HAPPY 
_ _ HAPPY HOLIDAYS HAPPY 
HOLIDAYS HAPPY HOLIDAYS HAPPY 
HAPPY HOLIDAYS HAPPY HQUDAYS HAPPY
'sfr r;
^__ * ivyulL/H i
Miw;h tabgekhl tkwwh tabgekh
bAYS HAPPY 
iDAYS HAPPY 
AYS HAPPY 
DAYS HAPPY 
DAYS HAPPY
AYS HAPPY [AYS HAPPY 
YS HAPPY 
YS HAPPY 
lAYS HAPPY 
.YS HAPPY 
YS HAPPY 
YS HAPPY 
|\YS HAPPY 
\YS HAPPY 
iYS HAPPY 
.YS HAPPY 
YS HAPPY 
YS HAPPY 
YS HAPPY 
YS HAPPY 
YS.HAPPY 
fS HAPPY 
HAPPY 
HAPPY
aPPY HOL,DAYS HAPPY HOL.DAYS HAPPY ^ ppY HOUDAYS !

---------------------------------------------------

10.
Namibia - 
Diamonds
and
acronyms
by tCrr IBni
A shudder, amounting almost to fear, came 
over me when its frightful desolation first 
broke upon my view. Death, I thought, would 
be preferable to banishment in such a coun
try."
Charles Anderson, a 19th 
century explorer, upon reaching 
South West Africa.
Namibia, located on southern Africas Atlan
tic Coast, is a country of both physical and 
political intrigue. It is a harsh, desolate land 
where less than 700,000 people live in a 
country twice the size of California.
The name is derived from the vast desert, the 
Namib, which itself means shifting sands. 
The desert runs along the northern and central 
coast deep into the hinterland. Sand dunes, 
some over a thousand feet high, loom over the 
dreaded skeleton coast" of the Northern 
Namib. Because of the deserts shifting sands, 
shipwrecks which once sat on the oceans floor 
far from the shoreline, now dot this eerie 
coastline.
Near the countrys southeastern coast exist 
some of the World's most productive diamond 
mines. While most of the diamond deposits are 
buried under thousands of tons of sands, it is 
reputed that the raw precious gems can also be 
found sitting on many unexplored southern 
beaches.
In the northeast nature has been less severe. 
Here the Okavango River flows through a 
wooded savannah which is the home to many 
forms of wildlife. The sunsets along the
Okavango river, which forms the border with 
Angola and is now part of a sixty mile de
militarized zone, are reputed to be among the 
most beautiful in the world.
I
Perhaps the countrys geography, with its 
many contrasting elements, provides an appro
priate backdrop for the multi-faceted political 
battles which are now raging in Namibia.
Namibia is one of only two countries in 
Black Africa where Whites still hold the pol
itical strings. The other is The Republic of 
South Africa, the nation which officially
governs Namibia, the former South-West 
Africa. A South African appointed Adminis
trator-General is Namibias highest political 
authority and South African armed forces 
provide the country with military defense. 
South Africa has agreed to grant Namibia 
conditional independence and various political 
factions, all vying for control of the future 
independent Namibia, have,emerged over the 
past five or ten years. South Africa, however, 
is not yet prepared to cut the umbilical cord 
without the assurance of a new government 
that is sympathetic toward South Africa and, 
more specifically, its racial policies.
Those elements struggling for power in this 
country, where only 11% of the population is 
white, range from the Marxist supported 
SWAPO (South West Africa People's Organiz
ation) to the reactionary AKTUR (which, in 
german, stands for Action for the Retention 
of Turnhalle Principles). At present, the moder
ate DTA (Democratic Turnhalle Alliance) is the 
most powerful political group.
SWAPO is led by Sam Nujoma, a charismatic 
Namibian from the popular Ovambo Tribe 
Most of his troops are currently based in 
Angola, which itself is a Marxist nation. Recent 
skirmishes between the SWAPO troops and 
South African troops near the Angolan border 
have led the five Western nations on the United 
Nations security council dealing with the 
Namibian issue-U.S., Britain, France, Canada, 
and West Germany, to propose a 60 mile de
militarized zone along tne nortnern boarder.
Nujoma claims that his group speak for the de
sires of the black Namibians and should be re
cognized as the legal power in the country.
The DTA, led by white rancher Dirk Mudge, 
claims to represent all twelve of Namibia's 
distinct ethnic groups-the Dutch, German 
(from 1880 until the end of WWI South West 
Africa was a German colony) and English
whites, the Ovambo^ Africans, the Hereros, the 
Kavangos, the Namas, Damaras, Kaokas, 
Capivis, Bushmen and a community of 
coloureds (mixed racial stock) known as the 
Rehoboth Basters. The DTA currently holds 41 
of the 50 seats in the Namibian General As
sembly. They were big winners in the elections 
of a year ago. Mujoma, however, suggests that 
the results were highly misleading because of 
reputed ballot stuffing and vote buying on the 
part of the South Africans, who seem willing to 
take drastic measures to prevent SWAPO from 
coming to power.
AKTUR is probably the least powerful of 
the three groups. It consists mostly of former 
members of the South African Broederbond, 
a Dutch group which wants to retain Apartheid 
and White supremacy in Southern Africa.
Currently, the five Western nations along 
with the political factions and the Republic of 
South Africa are trying to hammer out a means 
of transition to independence which is accept
able to each party. It has thus far proved a very 
difficult task. The most recent proposal set 
forth by the five Western countries include the 
development of the new de-militarized zone, a 
plan for a UN peace keeping force and UN 
supervised elections. South Africa seems to 
favor the new plan which proposes to eliminate 
SWAPO bases within Namibia. SWAPO, as 
would be expected has clearly rejected the 
plan.
Despite the political turmoil, there is some 
optimism about Namibias future among, 
countrymen. Race relations in this country 
don't seem to be particularly strained. Residen
tial neighborhoods, restaurants, hotels, the 
civil services and tne detense forces have been 
racially and ethnically desegregated.
Namibia is a vibrant and proud country. 
Its population represents one of the most 
diverse and interesting combinations of ethnic 
and racial groups in the world. It is a land that 
is at once hostile and enchanting. It is only 
tragic that such a beautiful place is scarred with 
political strife.

---------------------------------------------------

11.
by Andy Epstein
The idea of motion and the depiction of 
motion in art has always surfaced in mans aes
thetic and scientific pursuits. Artists have at
tempted the illusion of motion with techniques 
ranging from blurred lines and repeated images 
to the arresting of an act at a crucial point in 
its completion (e.g. illustrating a man about to 
fall off a cliff). But it is only recently, through 
science that artists have been able to create 
actual moving works that speak to the viewer 
in four dimensions
The appearance of motion in works of art 
is an excellent example of the wedding be
tween the disciplines of art and technology. 
The road to this collaborative relationship was 
not simple and involved an evolution of both 
thought and practice in both areas.
The first sign of this relationship was prob
ably seen in early Greek timepieces. The craft 
of clockmaking involved both a technical back
ground to build the moving parts of the time
piece plus the artistic talent needed to decorate 
those works. The machines evolved through 
time and cultures to the elaborate automations 
best exemplified by the toys made for the 
French aristocracy in the 1700's. Ranging from 
fortune tellers to gorillas these play things were 
appreciated as both intricately constructed 
machines and beautifully executed sculpture.
With the onset of the 19th century the idea 
of the craftsman died and a mutual mistrust on 
the part of art and technology limited joint 
efforts. Both were going through great and 
chaotic changes not only internally but in their 
relationships with other facets of society as 
well. But in the midst of the turmoil of the 
Industrial Revolution certain groups of intel
lectuals attempted to bridge the gap between 
the two. Pursuit of both disciplines involve a
reaction to their environment and clearly both 
existed in the same urban areas.
One of the first such movements where 
motion and its ties to technology v/ere recog
nized took place in Italy. The Futurists, a 
group of poets, artists, and assorted intellec
tuals realized that industrialism and the fast 
pace that accompanies its growth, was a 
feature of their environment that they could 
not ignore.
Another group, Dada, inspired by ihe 
Futurists continued this type of thought 
into the 20th century, yet on a more somber 
note. Having come about partly because of the 
First World War, it emphasized the absurdity 
and danger present in a society thrown out of 
control by its own machines.
continued on page. 14

---------------------------------------------------

12.
x>^ <t <^ ^ ^ 0<> c^\% ^
> <0 X% J& toi r$ x<\ CS ^ .
CX X> vN,'
>> . p5> <0' * ^ o ' V?P v r;" <v> u-  c,- r ,
3-% .<* ^ \ . ^ J- & :i? ^ X? <^'.o*
f'.'P i?fi?X* s*
X?- <C?
^ ^ -> ^ ox *->y <k \.Zi rS>
A ^
oc c^' N ox ^ X>^ ^\o^v e0>^ *V>V-  ^ # W ^VV *s> KXV ** O ^ ? <^ > O . ^ # -$ ^ _<& <<>Vo/////>" .H|I 4v ^
V X^X3  b- <Tlk.  rS X ^ _0  -C^> y}-~ vs -Ov NiCy _  y\. . <>y X
&.A
yS^\
k
x/'^y*
\ ^ x <?X -- *jr V J& jfc&
A K V<>- .A^'te V ^*
Aw// ^
X^ X.X<XX^ xi?? sSe ' > x>V, X V G%
Xx? #XA X# X^ Af
f <> .A*
mmmmmmN ripb l x^xxvxxv
V v <P ^ <* ^  ^ X * o> N XP CS' ^ ^ ^ ^ V, " ^X, ^ .-<>> -<<> ^ ^ x> Vo'  ^ X)^ <5- Nt. 0 ,0 _  v# a''
^ SP" ^ ^ V ^ & if S ^ %v^ a
^ O <0^ ^ ^ ^ </ <V ^ K& & no  v>
\ ><^vV ^o V^V>v ^VAV V^Vv COa cP^0 .O^ 0 ^VV '^V, ^ .
? r /X
m
\ V*y & s$X -c^<er ^ ,os .%o-C.K& <
X 'to fe X' 
^ Xs J& ,o
<b <V
0
iWS//s 4w y
^/// / /,w <^ ^vVy*
V ##V% ^-^'V xj ^ ^o'S' K V 
/ *sWo^>'v^vt*/ c<^
^VV'^V' ^ ^ 
s^M^VVV /> w> // eo^\^ ^.,^ X^ \ oS^. . .CS X5> :^> cP A V  . 0 ^ .6 ,X>
^V\
,v .^ <3=-
. JZ -s> \ . > ,%v
v^ -^ X ^^ vO S> <? & X
co x^ <y ^ N. ^ _ ^ .X  o ni x><y*  ,0?^ A'
A 0 X# Ov ^ Ce
eB--ArIB /> ///// // ^ * . if/ .
^ ^ <v>, V; >J- <* << V# r$* ,Os a ^ o <x X 0%. ^ xA ,<^ o5> ^ ^ \ ^ vO
b^V VV'p. V V X>
>V  -Z
JP*\ & , N x^ X^ C^ ov ^ ^ ^ -O e
/a%v>V^V Xx-x ^
nS> 'b 
^ vX"io^ * //y a 
#e* 'V ^c^W <^^<<?>''VVVl.
P .s>'.#v * V ^ %v/
' jp ?;*'*Xa .>' *VV^
b.^eV\ <<o*V* s^V^Vv^fe ^*VVV"V V
4? ^ \V PV ^ ^ ^ <^ vV ^ X^\^ ^ ^>% ^ o
, ^ ^ XO ^ x> oP' ^ 'O2, F
&. * *. ^ .#./ ox^v > ^ s
v>vv
y//"//VV^^ <*. V'.<*
 V^ ne r A- . X> 0
vwc iaew ^ X -^,f-v^ o^ NN . <e ^  N X x^ y , X xr ?s?
e^ ^ ^ 0<> X^ ^ ^
A^ XVe A V Xo V &
t o t ^ V ^ Cx ^ "O
v;^>v/
&Sov\PV
0 o'-1 v V .V' sr ?
o'XWV'V'//^'/A
i- \* /b0 .'^
.V- V'- x^ ^ J> .0^ ^
SSf ^ ^/ ^
V e+>'X^\ V '

---------------------------------------------------

13.
xy* b-'
* z?h sC" Va^ A^ 'O  X. VJ- ^ \
/t4-\N
.VJ
S*<<SS J
/s- s* # * 'Z, o& ' c? ,0-o o^> f >' N? ^
,i>:f y
X x<^ #
i> ^oX^xO'
<" a^J\k,
v x^%- X 
V^.<<> ^ 2> ^ ^
^./''xV \~> V'
v^> ,v/ <. . vV' ff.  ^ ^v ^ 0^> xi> v^\ ^,,'<^v;^ v^T'* //ym^
-V5:4 W/M-t*. ' fS/AWfS*/SS\*V *<r.V o>
?' ^ -^a0 \ ^y J> v^ ^ \ f ^ a ? c?
<*%./ *W* > # / * /V
.  ^ ^ V vo\ V *<>*. & "& .^V ^>
><? ^wy/i>
O* *^ * ^ ^ V 2> S*r. _<x -rP -y N?y V * <0 cF V & S? b . ^ .A *, ^ xV_>
 xP ^ 'o?' >
^ oe' -jS \0#);>7*J> 5?*
 ^>\^v0 Ml " ^ ^ >v v>s ^ ^ $<$> .S5' v ^\ <^ a < . ^ <<>%# ^V A a \ ,<0t . o.- . ^ ^ ^ P * y yg- <yc? A x>- X> 'J* ^ & 'f <?  V' ^ *S' O A # x<> a % J -ty ~i -S' 0O Z> ,' S vds .x& a *'?'
 rv vu <Y> V ^ ^ a0, a ys xsu ^
vv> yr<^l%^y^ <v
\ s /v//z/0/// ;>V
^ . <$ ^X0 .Si-?1  ^ ^
^ a s  <i> c,^V\
>V <5^ *%?- ^ ^c,'^>Nw^ <^vvvv*
V o0^ ^ O'^.> C^> ^#o^- *
>>*V *" *///
 p^ s^ *r v^ 00 <? ys0 ^ A st> o' S^ 3^ A fS?
' ^ A V.-o* ,<?W#**jp'f\ ^ N eP Y^ # ^ V o^ xTm',<> O^ <, , ^ o^'x^ ^ '^ ^
>/ ^ \/VV ^ * 4* ..^^0 ^ ay ^ .. ^a N < c? ^ .d0, '' o^<s> N? V
^ V K. oP O A/;^o\ V//
^ r^'  > aO <0 i' n
X* ^ S-^s,J>J>& K\%> .O" * . <^v
> V* N op *0 <'
Aa' 'i,e' a VspA \   ^
NlUNwi vNN|dd^ A y t wAe <oo.V A ^<> , ^ srs^ x^ 0 o3^_<a & N> <
V!>%'/ *h v<<<3> S Oa V e -.<?> xi'
'' W^ ^ ^ V M-*0'
/^y/ ^vv s>^ ^
^Vx^V* etde aBs,e
/>v/'o^V 4o-.^'XP xf> SV _0 X NX ^ aO ^ <&* .
^ &' 5> /vP o N ^ ^ V n<
N liP it '\, > x> .o <> sa
a?s
/>y vv/
o <r ~^Vo^V
^ a^. A4>-^V^VV- vA X> vX X ^ ri . ^ ^ : ^ ^cr ^o- \P a x
*
A ^ o\
' N , b b* xP V ^,w v 0^>>tv"9 \ sa' \ -<>, a i r %? x<> oc-mK o^ xcv M, J- Ao
<0 ^ ftX' x,s^ N> sa^ s
y
;yV ^^* s
&.y.$^V *<&*?*
o> C-N
, . X x O - Nr y *b ?yv s N  v ,av '# /'O*1/// ^ ^//Z  A%
* ^ ^+ 4?  X>%WNnO . ^ x-^ ^> <& V 'fc c sV .a Jbr ^ <s- vi- ^ x '
y <a x^st? xNy'J
vV>V s-o>;
^ ^a ^O . <P" Ka a^/#yvv
X

---------------------------------------------------

14
CONTINUED
canvas in motion
With the passing of the war a healthier and 
more optomistic climate was set for this renew
ed relationship. First seen in the Russian 
Constructivists and soon after in the Bauhaus 
the idea of using actual motion in artpieces 
took hold. Theater, dance, and music, com
bined with elaborate costumes, sets, and 
lighting effects were produced. The introduc
tion of movement in sculpture culminating 
years later in gigantic self destructive works 
such as Jean Tingueley's Homage to New 
York were experimented with. Diagrams, 
arrows, photomontage and a myriad of 
other two dimensional techniques were adopt
ed by artists working on a variety of industri
ally produced surfaces. And the art of film and 
animation were in their first birth throes as 
artistic mediums.
Throughout all this experimentation was the 
underlying realization that these artistic at
tempts at depicting the light and motion could 
be improved through the use of that science.
Three dimensional motion involved new 
industrially created mediums including motors, 
plastics, fiber, and lights. The rapidly growing 
field? of film, animation, and video demanded 
an even stronger collaboration between the 
artist and the engineer because of technical 
complexity inherent in their production pro
cesses.
Animation, especially as carried out by 
Disney Studios, typified this symbiotic 
relationship. With the needs of this medium 
involving thousands of drawings for even a 
few minutes of motion the studio set-up 
evolved into a factory-like assembly line of 
filming processes. Walt Disney became a 
type ot production manager who, aided by 
a highly trained group of animators, made 
key decisions in the mood, narrative, motion, 
and even colors of the images in his films. 
The characterization of the figures was given 
to one group of specialists, the backgrounds to 
another, and the movement of these actors to 
yet another. Then there were the in-betweens, 
artists filled in the gaps of motion that were 
to take place between the key drawings given 
to them by the master animator. The images 
then went to photographic experts who filmed 
the sequences. Even after all this, there were 
editing crews, sound crews, even separate 
lettering and credits crews. Without this sort of 
set-up, clearly borrowed from the industrial 
concept of the assembly line and using highly 
intricate machinery Snow White or Fantasia 
would never have hit the big screen.
Both were equally creative in their 
efforts but it was apparent that Ms. Sorenson 
would probably decide the themes and moods 
of the pieces while Mr. DeWitt would create 
and produce much of the machinery and 
techniques needed to carry out these ideas. 
There was no definite distinction between 
the two and yet though both vacillated be
tween the different aspects of the production
of the video pieces each also had a definite 
area of expertise in the process.
They actually celebrated the chaotic atmo
sphere of the noise, smells, movement, and 
light of the urban centers brought on by the 
machine age. It was reflected in their work as 
vibrant colors, vacillating and repeating shapes, 
and blurs and smudges on the canvas.
Video on the other hand involved a more 
individualistic and therefore a more esoteric 
and intellectual movement in the arts. With 
artists such as Nam June Paik, probably the 
first to realize the importance of video in art, 
video gained a strong footing in the art world. 
Exhibitions included a variety of pieces ranging 
from assemblages where the viewer could 
watch himself watching himself on TV to sets 
where the viewer could actually manipulate 
the image with magnets.
With the development of sophisticated pro
duction machinery video imagery has become 
much more diverse. A perfect example of the 
need for the artist/technician relationship in 
this medium is the collaborative efforts of 
Vibeke Sorenson and Tom DeWitt. Recently 
giving a talk for the Pittsburgh Filmakers the 
two explained their roles in the works they 
produce. Ms. Sorenson seemed to undertake 
the more motional side of the TaV (Tom and 
Vibeke) relationship while Mr. DeWitt appear
ed to lean towards the technical end of theprocess.
The developement of machinery able to 
produce moving images is still in its infancy. 
The use of computer generated imagery will 
soon put full length animations in the grasp 
of individual artists. Duane Palyka, a graduate 
of CMU in Art and Math, a double major 
which took him six years and two summers to 
complete, is working on computor animation 
techniques which will one day lead to a com
puter in-betweener eliminating the need for 
the elaborate production processes typified 
by Disney Studios.
Equally exciting are the advances being 
made in the relatively new field of Holography. 
A photographic process involving the use of 
lasers this medium yields three dimensional 
light images. By layering still holographs of 
movie frames on cylinders in 1/4 inch slits 
and revolving the drums a moving image 
appears in the space inside the drum. 
Conceivably in the near future elaborate 
holographic films involving three dimensional 
moving images of light will be shown to 
audiences in theaters or even in their own 
homes.
As the technologies of video, animation, and 
holography move forward their availability 
through satellite, cable, and cassettes will 
expand immensely. The pursuit of our culture 
to bring art to the people may soon be accom
plished through the collaborations between 
artists and technicians in these new fields.
H h
WERE YOU
PREPARED ?
just academic. On this campus we see talented 
people equally dedicated to very different 
things. As a university, CMU is made up of six 
colleges. Each college has its own students, 
curriculum, faculty and dean. The indepen
dence of each of these colleges results in con
flicts, divergence of opinion, mental struggle, 
and occasionally incompatibility of desires 
and goals; but, above all, it creates an atmos
phere of academic excitement. This excitement 
stimulates ideas without forcing direction, 
encourages imagination , without neglecting 
intellectual disciplines, and respects individual 
initiative without losing the benefit of student-to-student, student-to faculty, and student-to-administrator cooperation.
Being prepared for Carnegie-Mellon means 
having the emotio. v. stability, motivation, and 
willingness to accept a.id realize what is to be 
gained by participating in this University.
ririTi

---------------------------------------------------

15.
DETAILS
by Lisa Amowitz and Louise Molnar
Here is a comprehensive Christmas guide to 
the Bank Center, an indoor mall, located down
town with one entrance on Forbes Avenue and 
one on Wood Street.
The Center is actually a converted bank with 
a few of its stores positioned in the old safe de
posit vaults.
Its stores are inviting little niche's and they 
contain many potential Christmas gift items. In 
addition to its intriguing shops there are four 
restaurants, one disco, and a double movie 
theatre. Besides being a shopping mall, the 
Bank Center can be considered a complete en^ 
.ertainment center.
CLOTHES
Jaz - Chic^hop stocked with wild New York 
designer fashions. All fashions are assured to be 
the latest from the east. Prices are moderate to 
expensive.
Papierella - High priced clothes for the sophis
ticated lady.
Stanyon Street - Reasonably priced clothes for 
stylish young women. Latest on the disco 
scene. Accessories such as belts, hats and cos
tume jewelry. They are having pre- Christmas 
sales right now.
Leather Vault - a versatile leather shop. There 
are hats, jackets, belts, buckles and also little 
stuffed suede animals (bison, walrus, rhino) 
and incredibly soft chamois skirt outfit - a 
great selection of wallets, key chains and purses] 
too - including an ingeniously compact change, 
mrse that fits comfortably into a pants pocket
JEWELRY 
Jene - very good jewelry. They are having a 
holiday sale.
Giovanni - Beautiful footwear thats not 
kicking around in the street. For a shoe lc 
this is Santa's bag. 
kGarazzi - more of the same.
HOME ACCESORIES 
Lifestyle 84 - Great place for cleanly designed 
practical gifts for the home. They have furni
ture, pillows, tableware, kitchenware and 
quilts! An exciting assortment of ice buckets 
ire featured, as well as candles that look like 
everything but candles. Also great sales right 
now on things for your room or apartment: 
lamps and storage modules.
Fabrigraphics - Yards and yards of graphic mat
erial with which to warm up or renew a room. 
They can stretch the fabric like a painting 
while you wait or you can take it home to coat 
your walls. Pillows too, pretty and colorful on 
sale for $8 and $10.
Chez Gourmet - Kitchen utensils, woks, full 
line fine cuttery, gadgets, pots and pans, etc. 
The owner emphatically states that the shop 
should be known as The Practical Gourmet" 
because they have every imaginable need for 
the budding chef.
Alibaba - Copperware, imported mostly from 
Turkey and other Middle Eastern countries. 
You can also find exotic and glittery Christmas 
decorations here. A very beautiful shop.
FOODSTORES 
Alacarte - All you need to throw a Christmas 
wine and cheese party except the wine. They 
have, imported cheeses and crackers, an as
sortment of mustards, rolls, bread and apples. 
Good for snacks while shopping.
Copperfield Coffee House-A cozy English style 
cafe which serves 2 soups, 44 types of tea and a 
variety of tasty pastries. In addition to this 
they sell teas, jams, coffees and gift Christmas 
cookies and candies.
Pittsburgh Trading Company - recently opened 
a very cozy shop filled with fresh natural 
sweets: carob/candy, dried fruit, GORP, cook
ies and candies full of the tastiest ingredients. 
Not a health food store but a natural confec
tionary (small sacks of granola are great in 
stockings)
Belmar Candy - an outlet for a Pittsburgh 
candy company, with cases full of chocolates 
(clusters, tree bark, cremes...) and a huge 
assortment of hard candies. Also cards and 
candles; great for holiday staple items, 
and more...
Tobacco Village - Gifts for Dad. Intricate 
carved pipes, tobacco, cigars and funny light 
ers. They have a fascinating collection of anti
que meershawn pipes which are very valuable. 
Caswell Massey - Toiletries; the oldest 
in the U.S. Founded in 1752, they have a 
of useful and unusual personal items. Pickles 
lipbalm, the best known cure for chapped lips, 
lotions, cucumber creams, shampoo, natural 
bristle toothbrushes, and more.
Petals - A little florist stand with gift bouquets, 
pins and floral arrangements. Some of the 
pwers are realistically fashioned out of fabric
RESTAURANTS 
Rusty Scupper - lunch or dinner 
It has a bar which is one of top singles spots in 
Pittsburgh.
Bahama Mama Cafe -Sandwiches made to or
der. They serve beer, wine and other alcoholic 
drinks at their bar. The atmosphere is simple, 
but reminiscent of the Bahamas, with nice 
touches like ceiling fans. Every day at 4:30 PM 
there is a Happy Hour.
K. Barchetti - Shoes and clothing for men and 
women. Rrices mainly out of reach for an aver
age college student.
The Limited - Another fashion place for young 
ladies similar to Jaz but slightly less

---------------------------------------------------

sssssssmEEEEfc]rrlrXrlrlrJ-xrxrirxr^
WE INVITE YOU TO ENJOY OUR ANNUAL SPECIAL
V,I#
A%4
CHRISTMAS DINNER
DECEMBER 11,1979 4:30 PM - 7:00 PM
To start you may sample from the
TIDBIT TABLE ?
Trays loaded with meat, cheese, & crackers Fritos & Dip
Then move on to the SALAD BAR
ENTREES
Chef Carved Roast Top Sirloin of Beef 
Stuffed Filet of TurbotLemon Butter 
Boneless Breast of Chicken with Holiday Dressing
VEGETABLES
Zidi with Red Clam Sauce 
Buttered Green Peas with Mushrooms 
Braised Carrots & Celery
DESSERTS
Strawberry Shortcake with Pound Cake Apple Struedel
K. ROLLS & BUTTER
BEVERAGES
Featuring Hearty Egg Nog
I
EE093
KILTIE CAFE $3:50 for 
Validine Holders 
Price includes
1 Soup 
1 Salad
1 Entree
2 Vegetables
1 Dessert
2 Rolls & Butter 
2 Beverages
)
 
 
/
>1 
 
>

DINNERS UNLIMITED
Admission $4.00/$3.50 for 
Vali-dine price includes  one 
time thru the line and choice 
of
1 Soup
1 Entree
2 Vegetables
1 Dessert
2 Rolls & Butter
Salad & Beverages are 
unlimited. Second time thru 
the line $2.00 or $1.75 for vali
dine holders.
nj
3
00
