tion in salaries, for as Dr. Strathmeyer put it: A reduction in 
service is, in tact, a reduction in 
people.
Dr. Strathmeyer expressed his 
regret that the lay-offs had to hap
pen, and said that he had advocat
ed an alternate financial expedi
ent in delaying the opening of the 
new Computer Research Building, 
slated for partial occupancy next 
fall. He said that the operation of 
the building was to cost upwards 
of half a million dollars per an
num due to its elaborate heating 
and ventilation systems, but com
mented that after review, his sug
gestion for delaying its opening 
had been rejected.
When Vice-President Strath
meyer was confronted with the 
accusation that ne and others had 
verbally promised new sei ?e 
employees job security, he replied 
that he could not remember per
sonally having ever done  . He 
said that the misapprehension 
that employees of the University 
need never worry about lay-offs 
has an historical basis in that 
such lay-offs have seldom oc
curred in the past, but he contend
ed that historically, the univer
sity has never faced the kind of 
problem which exists at the mo
ment.
The meeting concluded after 
more than two hours of lively 
discussion with a resolution that 
a petition be drawn up providing 
a channel for students to express 
their support of the workers re
quest that the lay-offs be halted. 
Later that evening, a petition to 
such an end was formulated by a 
small group of students and serv
ice employees. It was immediate
ly distributed and by noon of the 
following day, 400 signatures had 
been collected.
Later that same Friday after
noon a demonstration expressing 
sympathy for the laid off workers 
plight was staged in front of War
ner Hall. (See accompanying 
photograph.) The petition was 
then presented to administration 
officials who promised to re-study 
the lay-offs. In a letter dated April
5 and address to Members of the 
Carnegie-Mellon Campus Com
munity, Vice-President Strath
meyer said that the conclusions 
of the re-examination were that 
the lay-offs could not be postpon
ed. Dr. Strathmeyers letter ap
pears in full on page four.
Campus Employees Are Laid Off; 
Students Present Protest Petition
Vol. 70, No. 24
x'--------------------------
Thursday, April 8, 1971
On Thursday afternoon, April 1, 
the Wuerrett Room witnessed 
perhaps the first meeting of its 
kind on the C-MU campus when 
C-MU service employees and stu
dents came together to air their 
grievances. The gathering, initiat
ed by several employees in co
operation with a number of stu
dents, was convened primarily be
cause of a recent series of C-MU 
service personnel layoffs.
The meeting, attended by per
haps 100 persons, with nearly 
equal numbers of workers and 
students, was called to order at 
4:30 p.m. by student Michael Jones 
who explained that the gettogether was for the purpose of 
establishing a communications 
link between the two diparate 
bodies of C-MU personnel. He ex
plained that it was to be a forum 
for exchange of criticisms and an 
opportunity to organize mechan
isms of support for each other. He 
then opened up the floor and the 
meeting became predominantly 
an analysis of recent maintainance 
layoffs.
Various workers explained their 
individual plights and how the 
layoffs were going to affect them, 
while the students, for the most 
part, listened, occasionally soliciting clarification of certain fac
ets of the workers dilemma. It 
was learned that in the past three 
months, 20 workers had been laid 
off, while another seven had tak
en cuts in pay. Three more work
ers were to be laid off on the sub
sequent day (Friday, April 2). 
Due to the nature of their con
tracts with the University, the 
laid-off workers will not receive 
unemployment compensation.
The workers main bone of con
tention was that they had accept
ed relatively low-paying positions 
at Carnegie-Mellon University be
cause they were given verbal as
surance that there would never 
be any lay-offs if they did their 
jobs well. Said one worker: They 
told us as long as you do your 
work, youve got a job. It was 
noted, however, that the workers 
contracts with C-MU contained 
no assurances of continued work 
and explicitly prohibited any ver
bal contractual agreements, and 
thus the men to be laid off did not 
place much hope in a legal solu
tion.
They expressed the hope that 
the meeting might rally sufficient 
student morale and vocal sup
port on the workers behalf to en
courage the University to recon-GRADUATION
by BARBARA HOBBS
Are our graduation robes really 
made of paper? Is there any way 
we could recycle them? Do we 
really have to pay a $25 fee if we 
dont attend commencement ex
ercises? These are just a few of 
the questions. Many appointments 
later, after finally finding those 
in charge, I have managed to 
compile the following facts:
Our graduation fee is $10 per 
degree; this applies to everyone 
whether or not you attend com
mencement. The only extra fee is 
a $2 fee if you cannot attend com
mencement and wish to have your 
diploma mailed to you. This addi
tional fee is really quite reason
able when you consider that every 
diploma is insured and many of 
them are mailed overseas. The 
only people who have larger 
fees to pay above and beyond 
their graduation fees are the doc
toral recipients. They pay the $10 
graduation fee plus a $20 fee to 
cover the cost of copying their 
thesis so that the school can re
tain a copy in their files.
But what does the $10 gradua
tion fee cover? First, there is the 
preparation of the diploma and 
cover. This is done by an engrav
er in Philadelphia and comes to 
about $3.60. Then there is the 
cost entailed in the publication 
and printing of the commence
ment program. We all have to sit 
on something during commence
ment, so add on a chair rental fee.
And last, but not least, the oper
ations and maintenance crew 
must be paid for setting up the 
platform, microphones, pennants 
and the endless sea of chairs.
But the cap and gown are pro
vided free of charge and they are 
NOT made of paper. They are 
made of acetate, will not burn, 
and if youre really into robes, 
they are not bad looking. Mr. 
Floyd, from the Public Occasions 
Coordinating Committee, showed 
me a sample, and they look just 
like the old robes with a. Tew min
or differences. First, they are a 
lot lighter in weight, and second, 
they have a sheen to them. One 
advantage to these robes is that 
if they are too long you can cut 
them off to the right length. Ev
erybody gets to keep them, and, 
after all, they are free.
The robes that have been used 
in the past were given to last 
years graduating class be
cause some of them had passed 
the point of no return. Some had 
been used for about 50 years, and 
all of them were getting a little 
raggedy and would not have stood 
up under a dry cleaning  the 
school would have had to replace 
them all. But more and more 
graduation gear suppliers are 
dealing in acetate. Unlike the old 
robes, these do not have to be 
stored and dry cleaned; they can 
be used once and thrown away.
(Continued on Pat/e 7)
Pre-Registration
1. Schedules of classes for the Fall Semester, 1971, will be avail
able during the week of April 5.
2. Academic departments will be set up in the gymnasium to pro
cess course and section enrollment on April 14 from 1 to 5 p.m. and 
6:15 to 9 p.m.
3. Since no provision has been made for cancelling classes on 
April 14, students must arrange individually:
a. To secure five approved schedule cards from their departmen
tal advisor. Note: Advisors are not to retain a copy. The new procedure 
will provide for the Registrar to return all copies to the students de
partments.
b. To appear at the gymnasium to be enrolled in courses and sec
tions. Procedure here has been changed. Students will not pick up in
dividual class cards but will have their names placed on class lists.
4. In addition to the approved schedules, it will be necessary that 
students bring to the gymnasium the student master card which will 
have been mailed to them, at their home address, during the Spring 
recess. If for any reason the student has not received a master card, 
he must secure a replacement at the Registrars Office. Students who 
are contemplating, or are in the process, of changing departments need 
not have their master cards changed in order to pre-register.
5. It is important that students indicate on the schedules the classi
fication (i.e., sophomore, senior, etc.) which they will have in the Fall 
rather than the present classification.
6. During the summer, instructions will be sent outlining proce
dures necessary to complete registration and fee settlement and for 
processing any needed schedule changes.
sider the layoffs. As one of the 
workers expressed his senti
ments: We are not going to let 
this thing slide. . . . We need your 
help. . . . These people have got 
big cannons; we have only got bb 
shots.... We need allies.
Several students questioned 
what action the workers union, 
the Service Employees Union, 
was taking to prevent the lay-offs. 
The response was that the un
ion had done nothing. General sen
timent seemed to be that the un
ion was sympathetic but for rea
sons involving legal structures 
was not going to do anything.
Most of the service personnel 
that spoke charged the Universi
ty with a breach of confidence. 
We cannot stop them from lay
ing us off . . . but they promised 
us. A member of the mainten
ance staff expressed his impres
sion that C-MUs present finan
cial squeeze was due in part to 
fiscal mismanagement at the top 
and charged that those responsi
ble for the mismanagement should 
take salary cuts. Metaphorically 
he complained that if the head 
up there is making all these mis
takes, whos going to suffer? The 
tails going to suffer.
Discussion shifted for a period 
to the recent housing question
naire and its implications for the 
maids. It was noted that 50 per 
cent of the students had respond
ed to the questionnaire, and of 
those who had responded, 80 per
cent had voted to dispense with 
maid service rather than suffer a 
housing cost increase for next 
year. As a result, four maids are 
to be fired with a resultant saving 
for C-MU of $22,000. One of the 
workers present at the meeting 
suggested that the administration 
was trying to place the responsi
bility for the firing of the maids 
into the students lap and said 
that he thought the people would 
have been laid off anyway if they 
hadn't had a vote.
As the meeting progressed, 
Richard D. Strathmeyer, vice 
president for Business Affairs, 
was called upon to elucidate the 
administrations reasons for exe
cuting the lay-offs. Strathmeyer 
delineated the Universitys pre
sent financial ills, noting that 
C-MU is operating with a deficit 
of three million dollars. He said 
that long range budget cuts in 
many areas were imperative and 
indicated that it had been decided 
that the physical plant and all 
service divisions were to reduce 
their collective budget by 10 per 
cent. This 10 per cent cut is to be 
implemented largely as a reduc

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2THE TARTANThursday, April 8, 1971
EditorialLETTERS TO THE EDITOR
Sermonette this week introduces your new editor, a new 
Minister of Public Information, so to speak, an Alpha plus 
confronting his first issue, deciding how you cretinous Epsi
lon minuses should feel about the news of the week.
Very well. Saving our consideration of What Is Truth 
for a later time, this week we will consider the demonstation; 
held outside of Warner Hall last Friday.
Many of you might not know about last Fridays demonstra
tion; mainly because had all the demonstrators been arrested, 
they would have been outnumbered by the Chicago Seven. None
theless, it WAS a demonstration, and its size, or lack thereof, is 
irrelevant to a consideration of its justification.
Fewr of us enjoy seeing people laid off. We are familar with 
and sympathetic to arguments which ask us to consider the 
plight of the unemployed worker, his wife and his familyHow 
would you like it if your father (or YOU) were laid-off?
But the demonstrators werent asking that no one be laid 
offthey recognized the present need for budget trimming 
they were asking that the Administration reconsider WHERE 
the cuts are make; asking why do the cuts always seem to hit 
the man on the bottom and not those in the middle or the top. 
Idealistic youth!
All the workers can get from students is sympathy400 
names on a petition. If they want future protection from what 
they regard as a breach-breaking University, theyd better 
form a more effective labor union than their present one. 
*****
Drama students who are not invited back next year WILL 
have their $50 room deposit refunded by the Housing Office. A 
rumor had been circulating that their deposits would have to 
be forfeited; so, the TARTAN, sensing injustice (number one 
enemy of this Peoples Paper), called Housing for a confirma
tion. Informed of the Drama Departments unusual re-admis
sion policy, Housing Director Guinivan declared that Drama 
students are an exception to the rule.
Published Every Thursday 
Editorial and Business OfficeSkibo 50 
CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITY, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213 
Telephone: 682-4557
DOUG CAMPBELL, Editor-in-Chief
Business Manager.......................................................Beverly Noretsky
News Editors.........................................Debbie Holdstein/Sherry Sukol
Features Editor.........................................................................Craig Collins
Sports Editor...............................................................................Jude Heller
Copy Editor.................................................................................Barb Hobbs
Photography Editor.............................................................Neal Binstock
Layout Editor.....................................................Ralph "Midnight" Pritts
Advertising Manager..............................................................Mary Lipsett
News Staff: Grace A'Alo, Duane Eilertson, Jon Manon, Steve
Saunders, Margaret Wacker, and Joel Schwartz.
Features Staff: Earl Julius, Richard Kalinoski, Walter Koehler,
Michael John Harbadin, and Terence Palso.
Sports Staff: Dave Aber, Lenny Beer, John Herre, Lauren Hut
ton, and Stork.
Copy Staff: Sydny Weinberg.
Photography Staff: Eliot Arons and Spotlight Lampl.
Layout Staff: Ed Kramer.
WRCT FEATURE ALBUM SURVEY 
APRIL 6 to APRIL 13 
Title Artist Label
THE BEST OF THE GUESS WHOGuess Who RCA
WOODSTOCK II Various Artists COT
BOBBY GOSHBobby Gosh Polydor
LATER THAT SAME YEARMatthew's Southern Comfort Decca 
WILFLIFEMott the Hoople ATL
RIO GRANDERio Grande RCA
THIRDSJames Gang ABC
ENCOREJose Feliciano RCA
TAPESTRYCaro/e King A & M
THE ROAD TO RUINJohn and Beverly Martyn WB
JOSEPH & THE
TECHNICOLOR DREAMCOATVarious Artists Scepter
MARYMary Travers WB
BLACKSTONEBlackstone Epic
MARK ALMONDMark Almond Blue Thumb
THE YEST ALBUMYes Atlantic
LITTLE JOHNLittle John Epic
MANNABread Elektra
PRESENT COMPANYJanis Ian Capitol
OBLIVION EXPRESSBrian Auger's Oblivion Express RCA
MONGO'S WAYMongo Santamaria Atlantic
Peace or Else?
(Editor s Note: An anonymous 
TARTAN reader from Brockton, 
Mass., drops us a note.)
Editor:
It you are voting in Washing
ton to keep the war going, read 
this.
If you are working in Washing
ton to end the war immediately, 
read this.
If you want to end the war but 
have no power in Washington, 
read this.
In other words, read this.
We are going to start shooting, 
bombing, beating up, throwing 
rocks at, and in general show
ing how bad war is to all the peo
ple from Nixon and Agnew on 
down the line. We ask two things, 
that you join us if you get a 
chance and that you hurt some
one in the war. You might not 
want to kill as we do, but you can 
hurt the rich warmongers physi
cally just to let them know they
are in a war.
Maybe the people keeping the 
war going are really sincere and 
like the North Vietnames they will 
keep fighting even if they find they 
and there (sic) loved ones are go
ing to get hurt and even killed. If 
they are that sincere then maybe 
the war is not as bad as we think 
it is, however, our theory is 
that once the going gets rough and 
the sons of the rich congressmen 
and President and cabinet and 
generals (sic) start getting killed 
instead of just gooks and nig
gers and poor white trash then 
things will change.
We dont (sic) expect miracles 
(sic). We give the war until July 4 
to end. Then we start killing. We 
promise that several people 
will die on July 4 or maybe just 
get hurt or maybe even just Bebe 
Rebozos house will get blasted or 
just Melvin Lairds child get in a 
car accident or maybe just a 
bomb killing a lot of innocent 
American people, nice rich, nor
mal middle class ones right in 
Washington where all the rich 
bastards can see what war is like 
when it isnt just some worthless
yellow man who happens to have a 
country with a lot of oil in it.
So change your vote and do it 
fast if your (sic) in congress.
Or join our cause and put phy
sical pressure on a government 
official to see what war is like. 
You dont have to kill his kid if 
you know him; you could just go 
up and start a good, old-fashioned 
fight and beat the living shit out 
of him; I mean really put him in 
the hospital and let him know that 
this is the kind of physical vio
lence (sic) he is voting for.
Please join us. Theres (sic) 
only a handful of but we are plac
ed where we can a lot (sic) of 
good, and if we get a few others 
doing the same kinds of thingsl 
mean these fat cats love there 
(sic) property so much its (sic) 
practically a good to blow up there 
(sic) boat or there (sic) car as to 
kill there (sic) kids.
So join us. We call ourselves 
the People for Peace, but that 
doesnt (sic) mean a thing if you 
want to use some other name.
CaampausEsalo
THE White Roots of Peace will 
return to the Carnegie-Mellon 
campus on April 8 and 9. They 
are a group of American Indians 
concerned both with inter
preting Indian history and cul
ture to white students from the 
Indian's point of view and awak
ening white students to the con- gji 
tinued oppression of American 
Indians.
The main event of their next 
visit will be a coffee house held 
in the cafeteria on April 8, Thurs
day, at 8 p.m. This coffee house igi 
will offer students the chance 
to experience Indian culture 
through group dance as well as |;i 
films and discussion.
On Friday, April 9, the White 
Roots of Peace will again have 
their table of Indian crafts for 
display and sale in Skibo lobby.
A COMMUNITY-wide Easter Sun
rise Service will be held on Eas- Si 
ter Sunday, April 11, at 6 a.m. 
in the Heinz Memorial Chapel. ;s 
Lutheran Campus Ministry in g; 
Pittsburgh is hosting this serv- Ijig 
ice in response to the lack of Si 
such a community-wide cele- jjjS 
bration in the Pittsburgh area.
The Festival service begins 
with a brass choir and fea- |:S 
tures the Chapel's new Moller 
pipe organ, guitars, a speech 
choir, banners, and interpreta
tive portrayals of the Gospel.
Heinz Chapel is located on 
the campus of the University of 
Pittsburgh, corner of Fifth Ave. 
and Bellefield St. in Oakland.
Campus pastors J. Paul Balas 
and Charles W. Carlson are in 
charge of this service.
THE Department of Modern Lan
guages will administer Proficien
cy Tests in French, German, 
Spanish, and Russian on Satur
day, May 1, at 10 a.m. in the lan
guage laboratory (MM 310).
Any student may take one of 
these tests; there is no charge.
The test takes 95 minutes.
Students who demonstrate 
completence at the intermedi
ate level will satisfy their col
lege and/or departmental re
quirements in a foreign lan
guage. (Undergraduates only.)
Students may also take this 
test in order to establish their 
level of competence in the lan
guage gained through self- jif 
study, study abroad, etc., or to 
determine their level of achieve
ment in order to continue further 
study in that language. These 
tests are primarily designed 
for students who have had two 
years or more of the lan
guage, although this is not a 
prerequisite for taking the test.
Students wishing to take one 
of these tests should sign up in 
the Modern Language Depart
ment office, Baker Hall 232-B be
fore Wednesday, April 28, 4 
p.m.
STUDENT Affiliates of the Amercan Chemical Society, CarnegieMellon Chapter, announces the 
election of new officers for the 
1971 calendar year: Stephen
S. Barshay, president; Sally A. 
Sherman, vice-president; Susan 
Cruikshank and Daniel Deakter, 
co-secretary-treasurers.
We will hold a faculty-student 
luncheon on Tuesday, April 13, 
in the Skibo Staff Cafeteria. All 
are welcome.
THERE will be an open meeting 
of the Activities Board Film 
Committee on Thursday, April
8 (today), at 4:30 p.m. (now) in 
room 56, Skibo. Next year's pro
gram will be the main topic 
covered. All interested persons 
are invited to attend.
DRAMA COURSE OPEN 
TO NON-DRAMA STUDENTS 
Again in 1971-72, the Drama 
Department will offer its 
elective course:
Acting Technique (for non-drama 
students), 9 units, Tuesday, 
Thursday, 2:30-4:20 (class); 
Monday, Wednesday and Fri
day, 2:30-5:20 p.m. (rehear
sal as called).
The study of basic acting tech
niques including work in impro
visation, stage deportment, 
mime, script analysis, ap
proach to the role, and exercises 
stimulating the creative imag
ination and emotional re
sponses to demands of the text. 
Students will receive perform
ance experience through acting 
in one-act plays under the direc
tion of students in the depart
ment's directing program.
Registration for the course 
will be limited to 20 students 
and an effort will be made to 
have equal numbers of men and 
women in the class.
Questions concerning this course 
may be directed to Prof. Salsbury, CFA 108.
SINCE the student-taught Fun
damentals of Math" course, now 
in progress, has been quite suc
cessful, we plan to do it again in 
the fall. If you would like to try 
your hand at teaching, and have 
a good knowledge of elementary 
calculus, pre-register for 85-512- 
C Special Topics in Psycholo
gy: The Teaching of Mathemat
ics (12 units). Enrollment will 
be limited to 20.
Student teachers will be ex
pected to 1. Teach elementary 
calculus to 2-3 undergraduates; 
2. Attend a weekly seminar on 
teaching techniques and cognitive 
processes in mathematics, and 3. 
Write one paper on a topic re
lated to the teaching experience. 
The students of the student 
teachers will receive 12 units of 
mathematics credit in 21-104 
Fundamentals of Mathematics. I 
will provide a calculus text (use 
optional) designed for students 
who are afraid of math, and will 
administer tests to moniter stu
dent progress.
For further information, contact 
me in MMCC 110, John R. Hayes.
THE Board of Trustees has direct
ed that the agenda and proceed
ings of Board meetings be pub
lished for the information of 
faculty and students.
The Annual Meeting of the 
Board is scheduled for Monday, 
April 19. The following are the 
major items to be handled:
1. Election of new Trustees.
2. Election of officers of the 
corporation.
3. Action on the proposed bud
get for 1971-72.
4. A progress report on the 
Fund for Distinction.
5. Presentation and discussion 
of reports by the Trustees Com
mittees: Buildings and Grounds 
Committee, Development and 
Planping Committee, Finance 
Committee, and Student Affairs 
Committee.
6. Presentation and discus
sion of reports by the Chairman 
of the Faculty Senate, the Presi
dent of Student Government, the 
President of the Alumni Asso
ciation, and the President of 
Carnegie-Mellon University.
7. Such other business as may 
properly come before the meet
ing.
Raymond E. Parshall 
Secretary

---------------------------------------------------

Thursday, April 8, 1971THE TARTANPage 3
Population Control Activities Board Offers Funds
by G. BARR and J. PARKMAN
While you are reading these words four people will have died 
from starvation.
This is perhaps the most eloquent statement of the need for pop
ulation control. In this series of four articles we will try to deal 
with: 1) the nature of the problem, 2) the ethical issues of birth 
control and abortion, and 3) the methods available. In this article we 
will deal with the first issue, taking our information mainly from 
Dr. Paul Ehrlichs book The Population Bomb.
In 6,000 B.C. there were five million people. In 1,650 A.D. there 
were 500 million. This presents a doubling time of approximately 
1,000 years. The population doubled again in 200 years and again in 
80 years. At the present the doubling time is 37 years. If this rate 
continues without increase (which doesnt seem likely), in 900 years 
there will be 100 people per square yard on the earth, or about sixty 
million billion.
Perhaps then the other planets might provide a place to put all 
those people. However, at our present rate we would fill all the 
planets and moons of the solar system to the present earth density 
in 250 yearsnot much time at all. And without birth control, 
space ships could not extend to other solar systems because of a pop
ulation growth aboard ship great enough to destroy the journey.
Back to earth. One of the most distressing facts is that 40 percent 
of the worlds population is under 15 years of age. That means that 
within the next decade the worlds population will increase faster 
than ever before. This is what Ehrlich means when he says that the 
next nine years will decide the fate of the human race. Perhaps 
he is too pessimistic. Perhaps not.
The major problem of too many people is too little food. (We 
will not even talk about the psychological aspects of overcrowding.) 
Ehrlich predicts large scale famines in the next decade. It seems 
however that there is a large scale famine going on now. Half of the 
worlds population is either undernourished or malnourished. The 
number of starvation deaths occurring is anybodys guess. Until 1958 
food production kept up with population growth. In 1958 population 
growth exceeded food production growth. In 1966 only 10 countries 
produced more food than they ate. In the next thirteen years Indias 
population will have grown by 200 million people. Even the United 
Statew with the worlds largest surplus of food would have trouble 
feeding 200 million people in the next 13 years. And Indias popu
lation is by far not the fastest growing. Arthur Hopcraft in Born to 
Hunger reports 100 infant deaths in Colombia per day from mal
nutrition. Optimists suggest massive famines in the 1980s. But they 
are optimists.
To feed all these people requires destroying large parts of the 
environment. For how long can we afford the luxury of large 
amounts of park area when we need to grow food for people? How
ever we are not advocating tearing down the parks. We are ad
vocating fewer people. Pesticides present another problem. Dr. 
Malcolm Hargraves of the Mayo Clinic estimates more deaths from 
the use of pesticides than from auto accidents. Yet without pesti
cides the food problem would be even worse.
Remember also with more people there are more fuel require
ments. There is evidence that we are running out of fuel. Maybe 
nuclear power will solve the problem but it hasnt so far. Therdis also the 
green house effect in which atmospheric pollution will prevent heat 
from escaping into space. Perhaps, argue some, there will be a freez
er effect in which sun light will be prevented from heating the earth. 
Thus it is an academic issue whether we will freeze or boil to death. ,
Enough of this gloom. The purpose of all this is not to depress 
you but to point out that there is a problem and that the problem is 
a U.S. problem as well as a world problem. (After India starves 
who will be next?) We hope that you got our message.
We want to talk to you 
about a career in law... 
without law school.
When you become a Lawyer's Assistant, youll be doing work traditionally done by lawyers  work we think youll find challenging and responsible. And Lawyers Assistants are now so critically needed that The Institute for Paralegal Training can offer you a position in the city of your choice and a higher salary than youd expect as a recent college graduate. Youll work with lawyers on interesting legal problems  and the rewards will grow as you do.A representative of The Institute for Paralegal Training will conduct interviews on:
THURSDAY, APRIL 8
Inquire at Placement Office for exact location of interview
The Institute for 
Paralegal Training
13th floor 401 Walnut St Phila Pa 19106 
(215) WA 5-0905 .
by BILL JACONO
For the 71-72 academic year, 
Student Government has allo
cated $7,000 to the Activities 
Board to distribute among groups 
who wish to program events dur
ing the school year. The Activi
ties Board has developed the fol
lowing statement as a guideline 
tor those desiring an appropria
tion:
Purpose: This fund exists as 
an opportunity for campus 
groups other than the Activities 
Board to produce Programs that 
will complement those activities 
programmed by the AB and other 
campus programming organiza
tions. Through administration of 
this fund, the Activities Board 
hopes to encourage balanced and 
diverse programming that will 
benefit the campus community 
as a whole.
Who can use it: Any organiza
tion recognized by student gov
ernment or any group of indivi
duals that has interest in pro
ducing a program may petition 
the Activities Board for an appro
priation. A group wishing to pro
duce an event should first explore 
the possibilities of doing so 
through already established or
ganizations such as the ActiviBoard and other programming 
bodies. The program should 
be an open event and should be
planned for the campus com
munity as a whole.
Criteria for Allocation: Re
quests for funds will be evalu
ated according to the following 
variables:
1.) creativityhow is the pro
gram different from past and 
present programs?
2.) balancedoes this program 
fill a need that is not being 
filled by any other organization?
3.) participationthe commit
ment of the group to produce the 
program and the potential attend
ance at the program.
4.) concretenesshow well for
mulated is the proposal and plans 
for producing the event?
5.) feasibilityis the program 
feasible with respect to its tim
ing and the amount of work 
necessary to produce it?
6.) costis the program econo
mically practical?
No more than sixty percent of 
the fund will be allocated for 
fall programming. A group may 
not receive more than $1,000 per 
semester from the fund; organi
zations with budgets over $5,000 
must match the appropriation 
they receive. (If the event gen
erates income and a profit, the 
profit shall go back to the Cam
pus Programming Fund.) Any 
group receiving an allocation
must on publicity for the event 
specify that the money for the 
event came from that Campus 
Programming Fund.
The Activities Board will en
tertain proposals for programs 
at midsemester, the semester be
fore which the program is to 
occur. Two weeks after mid
semester, the Activities Board 
will have open hearings and an
nounce its decision. After midsemester, a group may petition 
the AB for funds at any time 
for a program the following 
semester (a review of the request 
will occur within three weeks.), 
but it is to a groups advantage 
to have the request submitted 
within the two weeks after mid
semester.
The allocation received by a 
group is subject to review by 
the Activities Board at any time; 
should the group fail to meet 
the specifications of its proposal, 
the AB may intervene and the 
group may lose its budget.
Applications for appropriations 
for the fall are available now 
at the information desk. They 
must be submitted by Tuesday 
April 20. An open hearing will 
be held the following Sunday, 
and decisions announced Monday 
April 26. If a group is dissatis
fied with the decision, it may 
appeal to Student Government, 
Tuesday April 27.
Campusa CusEau loauy
Mike Garl called the meeting 
to order and another rocking, 
snorting, and grumbling Student 
Senate meeting was on its way. 
After roll call the announce
ments and committee reports 
began. The finance committee 
chairman, Tanya Allmond, mov
ed that Senate accept two mo
tions: first, a reallocation of the 
budget for the TARTAN for 1971- 
72; second, an allocation for the 
Astronomy Club. The TARTANs 
reallocation was suggested by 
Doug Campbell in order to rent 
type-set equipment from IBM 
and thus, cut down on printing 
costs. The Astronomy club alloca
tion was to provide the funds 
necessary to complete the build
ing of a telescope. Different de
partments on campus had al
ready contributed to the construc
tion of this scope but certain ma
terials have yet to be purchased. 
Both motions were passed by 
the Senate.
Vince Misitano, Senate presi
dent, announced that there' were 
vacancies on the four trustee com
mittees that had student repre
sentatives. Students interested in 
being on the Academic Affairs, 
Student Affairs, Planning, or
Building and Grounds Commit
tees should see Vincent. Other 
announcements were not nearly 
as exciting. Any telephone dis
connections to be made for this 
summer by campus organizations 
should be reported to Ellen Celli, 
Skibo 103. And, according to 
Senates Academic Affairs Chair
man, its too late to formally 
change the ruling for classes on 
Good Friday, but informal deci
sions are expected to be against 
classes.
Moving on to old business, 
Senate moved to recognize three 
organizations: The Film Work
shop, The C-MU Student Chap
ter of the Association for Com
puter Machinery, and Le Societe 
Herpolhodique. (For those won
dering what a herpolhode is, it 
is a phenomenon in physics that 
resembles a hobbit but not quite 
as furry).
Under new business there was 
a lot of the grumbling mentioned 
earlier. The main discussion cen
tered around recognition require
ments for student organizations. 
Joan Kodish moved that Senate 
accept three motions. First, that 
any recognized group may not restrict its membership without 
the express approval of Student 
Senate. Second, that any recog
nized group may not use its name 
to schedule campus facilities for 
off campus groups. Third, that 
membership in any recognized 
group be restricted to registered 
students, faculty, or employees 
of C-MU. Disagreement was 
based on the right of Senate to 
approve of any kind of member
ship restriction. It was pointed 
out that it was impossible for 
fraternities to house women mem
bers and this was the main rea
son for the first motion. The 
first and second motions were 
passed after more token snorting 
and rumbling, and the third was 
not.
During the concluding roll call, 
Steve Borth and his faithful 
companion distributed a psychol
ogical questionnaire that asked 
the questionCan any human 
being sit through a Senate meet
ing and remain emotionally un
affected? We anxiously await the 
results.
Retired TARTAN Staff 
Return Your KEYS
-----------------------!----------1The Largest Selection of 
Imported and Domestic
Tobaccos and Pipes
in the City
BRIAR BOWL
3725 FORBES ST. 681-4045
Nationally Advertised Pipe
Ren Coffee House
CHATHAM COLLEGE
Reopens April 9 at 9:00
Entertainment and Films 
AdmissionFREE
Campus Camera Headquarters
FOR ALL YOUR 
PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS
WE RENT AND REPAIR TYPEWRITERS
CAMERA EXCHANGE
Student Discount on Most Items 
3711 FORBES AVENUE Phone: 683-2181
GIRLS . . .
ARE YOU LOOKING FOR A !
SUMMER 
COUNSELOR POSITION
Must be able to teach on of the 
following: Tennis, Golf, Trampoline, 
Cheerieading, Riflery, Scouting and | 
Nature Study, Lakefront Instructor | 
or General Athletics. Bookkeeper al- I 
so needed.
Write CAMP DIRECTOR,
2409 Shetleydate Drive, 
Baltimore, Md. 21209.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4THE TARTANThursday, April 8, 1971CONTROVE
by COLLINS
Youve come a long way from the runny-nosed and scruffy kid 
I knew.. .**
I think those are the opening lines from A Long Way from 
Home on the Kinks most recent album. Theyve been going per 
my mind,thought Id write them down. Scruff is a popular word 
these days.
Journalism hasnt gone too far since Ive known it. In fact, most 
newspapers, including college rags (as the in-people say), are 
still blowing their editorial runny noses in the air. The TARTAN 
is generally no exception. Of the college newspapers in Pittsburgh, 
few show too many degrees of creative originality. Pitt News is as 
jorunalistically expressive as a seventh grade English class. Car
lows Capsule isnt worth mentioning, being only a few mimeoed 
sheets stapled together, and Duquesnes Duke borrows most of its 
reporters from the Pitt News. This leaves the Pittsburgh Fair Wit
ness and the TARTAN.
The Fair Witness, Oaklands version of the college community 
underground news, is not much different from any other underground 
newspaper. They run the Fabulous Furry Freak Brothers, draw in 
the margins of the articles (sometimes typing in the margins of 
drawings), and unearth many stories of oppression, suppression, and 
repression. Is this Right-Wing Head Man? Not reallyIve seen 
good, original undergrounds. But the Fair Witness is too busy 
building its mudraking image to care much about acceptable journ
alism. What it is doing now can be compared to the early sixties 
when newspapers found out that pages could be printed sideways 
and upside down. It seems more like a prolonged phase than a part 
of the media.
Now that Im coming to the TARTAN, youre expecting praise 
with a little criticism in it to make me seem impartial. Bye.
This paper seems to be a victim of heredity. Too many people 
around CMU have no ideas on improving the TARTAN; others 
who have are hesitant about breaking a more or less loose tradition 
concerning the structure of the TARTAN. At any rate, our papers 
butterly flavor has likely been not all the product of its present 
staff, but of staffs previous. The FARTAN is admittedly innovative, 
at least for the TARTAN, but a little inanity goes farther than a 
whole page of inanities. The first FARTAN provided some bite to 
the paper, but by the time the second appeared, most of the campus 
had already been chewed. Razor-sharp commentary. Snazzy, eh, 
growls Walter Cronkite.
Unfortunately, to potential contributors to the TARTAN, the 
paper is dedicated to the proposition that all space has a priority. 
This being due to hassles over what is more relevant (sic), news or 
features, what full-page beer ads are going in, and the like. News 
articles contain the distinct TARTAN tone: their authors seem to 
write the stories with topic outlines propped in front of them. Fea
tures are sporadic; if its not activities board, its a featurette on 
Steam Pipes, or tunnels or whatever. The TARTAN hasnt had an 
article of significant impact since Senate Elections Completed/ 
Loser Calls for Recount (Nov. 19,1970). This isnt one, either.
But after all, CMU doesnt care. No one applies for the posi
tions. No articles generate responses, no reaction ever registers in 
the readers, the students (minus the staff). Pick it up for free in 
Baker Hall, read it in the grill. The students can complain how the 
TARTAN sucks and look at the cartoon and pass right by it and 
scan the article headlinesif the headline contains shit or one gr 
its derivatives, the article will be pursued for a few lines.
I once sat Rattlesnake Charley Rear (not to be confused with 
Beetle Bailey in Dodge City) at a table writing a letter to the paper 
I was not working with at the time. It began: I wish to say some
thing about apathy here. . .. After going through two panels of 
silence it concluded with Charley tossing the letter over his shoulder 
with a Ahhh, who cares?
Nothing has changed, much.
Strathmeyer Answers Petition
* Permission to use these words was not received for.nor even applied
FURNISHED APARTMENTS 
Spacious, Luxurious, 
Remodeled  Oakla d.
May or Sept. Occupancy 
391-3277 441-7269
BIRTHRIGHT -24-Hour Preg-j 
: nancy Counseling. Free Med
ical assistance and help to 
bring baby to term.
621-1988
Furnished Apt. to Sublet  
Available early May til Aug. 
15th. 1455 Wightman St. 5 
rms. ft bath. $200 a month. 
Phone 422-7968 after 9 p.m.
For rent, Aug. 1, 5717 Ho
bart St., 3rd fl. Ige. 4-room 
apt. in apt bldg., 1V2 miles 
from C-MU campus. $120 
plus electricity. Couple. Call 
421-7688 or Central Realty, 
421-5333.
MEN of all trades to NORTH 
SLOPE, ALASKA ft YUKON, 
around $2800.00 a month.
Fer complet* information writ* to 
Job Research, P.O. Box 161, Stn-A, 
Toronto, Ont. Enclose $3.00 to cover 
cost.
EUROPE: Year round student 
charters, tours, employment 
opportunities, cfiscounts. An
glo American Assoc., P. O. 
Box 36, Nahant, Ma. 01908.
LOST
8V2 by 11 Maroon
3-Ring Notebook
CONTAINS THESIS
$25.00 REWARD
CALL 363-4763 (after 8)
STUDENT SERVICES of AMERICALondon Bound?
362-1313
A review of the petitions pre
sented Thursday and Friday re
questing the University to post
pone layoffs scheduled to take 
place on April 2, has been com
pleted in consultation with ad
ministrative officers of the Universty. I have concluded that 
Carnegie-Mellon cannot post
pone the date of termination of 
employment of the employees 
affected. To do so would mis
lead those three employees by 
raising hopes which may later 
prove false.
The University has been in
formed that one of the three 
employees has asked Local 29, 
Service Employees International 
Union, to file a grievance on 
his behalf alleging that his lay
off has not been carried out in 
accordance with the seniority
RUGS
FOR LESS
(WITH YOUR ID CARD)
1000-9x12 RUGS
$15, $19, $25, $29
ALSO 6x9's, 12x12'*, 12xl5's, ETC. 1
CHASE'S
^5432 Walnut St., Shadyside
(Open Daily 10 am to 9 pm 
(Saturday 10 am to 5 pm) 
FOR INFORMATION CALL 621-1025
rights stated in the Collective 
Bargaining Agreement. Should 
the Union advance this claim 
and should an error in the ap
plication of the seniority rule be 
found, this employee and others 
similarly affected would, of 
course, be reinstated and re
ceive retroactive pay. Given the 
budget constraints under which 
CMU is currently operating, how
ever, if these three employees 
were reinstated, three other 
employees would then be sub
ject to layoff.
The petition IS evidence, 
which the University must 
recognize, of the concern of an 
important segment of the camp
us community about three mat
ters :
1. The process by which a 
physical plant employee is laid 
off and the effect of that pro
cess on the seniority provisions 
of the Collective Bargaining 
Agreement.
For those employees who be
lieve that the contract has not 
been properly carried out, the 
first recourse must be through 
the grievance procedure de
scribed in vthe Collective Bar
gaining Agreement between 
CMU and Local 29, which rep
resents a large number of our 
employees.
2. The effect of the budget 
constraints upon a segment of 
the University community less 
able to cope with the loss of a
job
The campus community recog
nizes the constraints imposed 
by the University budget. The 
question posed by the petition 
is whether a review of the plan
ned allocation of University resources would permit achieve
ment of the necessary reduction 
in operating expenses by means 
other than the loss of jobs. Dr. 
Stever has already discussed with 
the faculty the buget plans for 
1971-72 and the steps necessary 
to stay within the budget for 
1970-71. He is willing to present 
the same information to other 
interested groups in the camp
us community. It is necessary 
for those groups to understand 
the total budget problems be
fore attempting to offer viable 
suggestions. Through the Stu
dent Senate, the Faculty Senate 
and its Councils, and other Uni
versity committees, the adminis
tration has received helpful 
counsel on the allocation of re
sources; it welcomes other in
formed counsel.
3. The hardships seen in what 
the petitioners perceive to be a 
departure from the Universitys 
normal practice regarding no
tice of termination of employ
ment in the cases of the three 
employees scheduled for layoff 
on April 2.
In a meeting with Messrs. 
Jones, Schwartz, and Simbeck 
(CMU students who presented 
the petition), Dr. Stever, when 
appraised of this concern, agreed 
to review the practices followed 
by the University in these three 
cases. If, after such a review, 
Dr. Stever believes CMU to 
have been unfair, he will order 
that the situation be corrected. 
This review will be undertaken 
on Monday and its results re
ported to the employees involved 
by the end of the day.
r
Were looking for
Guys and Gals
who want to work and 
enjoy a funderfuF summer
at
The Nations Greatest Picnic Park
PITTSBURGH
[WEST MIFFLIN, PA. 15122]
NO W TAKING APPLICA TIONS
Apply At Personnel Office 
At Kenny wood Bus Station
MONDAY 
THRU FRIDAY 
3:30-6:00 RM.
SATURDAYS 
AND EASTER MONDAY 
10 A.M.-4RM.

---------------------------------------------------

FESTIVAL
(an activities board presentation)
FRIDAY APRIL 16 a non .competitive
4:30pm. 8:30pm f]*00 program of emu student
SATURDAY APRIL 17 - - . # .made films.
8-30 pm Aamission IN THE Wherret Room
winner.PPifMu acA
| by MICHAEL JOHN HARBADIN
The Jacques Loussier Trio per\ formed Friday night in the Carf negie Music Hall before a meaI ger, but enthusiastic crowd of stuj dents, faculty and other interest1 ed individuals. The Music Hall 
I seats 2,000, but only 700 seats 
I were filled, which was a disS appointing crowd for a usual 
I Loussier concert. The Loussier 
I Trio has played to packed houses
1 in Europe and America, receiv2 'ng standing ovations, compli- I ments, and praise for their unique 
| combination of classical and jazz 
I instrumental work. It is not such 
I an unlikely synthesis as it seems, 
| and the Trio handles both as; pects with sensitivity, creating 
I a viable environment for both 
I elements to flourish. One goodI
 aspect of the concert was that 
it afforded the audience a 
chance to really LISTEN to a 
live performance. All to often, 
people will talk and make vari
ous other noises during a con
cert, because the music is so 
loud, it allows for such condi
tions. Not so with the Loussier 
Trio; their music is at times so 
soft (the only instruments be
ing piano, bass fiddle, and 
drums) that even the audiences 
stirring could be heard. At one 
point during the performance, I 
caught myself holding my 
breath, as not to disturb the won
derful bass solo by Pierre Michelot during the Prelude in C 
Minor. Christian Garros, the 
drummer, and Loussier him
self, on piano, also added bril
liant solos in the appropriate 
Places throughout the course of 
the evening. Donald Miller,
art critic of the Pittsburgh Press, 
gave them excellent reviews in 
a delightfully technical/asthetic 
feature article which was slight
ly incomprehensible to me. 
Miller has the credentials and 
knowledge, but I do not, and 
so I am trying to avoid getting 
in over my musical head. Ex
cerpts from Millers review con
tained these observations: The 
Jacques Loussier Trio, French 
interpreters of Bach in the con
temporary jazz idiom, performed 
magnificently last night in Car
negie Music Hall in a concert 
sponsored by the Activities 
Board of Carnegie Mellon Uni
versity. . . .Credit must be paid 
to the Trios musicianship, wit 
and refinement which were supurb counterparts to the tradi
tional pieces. Loussier would 
pick up a theme, flesh it out, 
spin it away in eliptical fash
ion, then pass it along to bass
ist Pierre Michelot and Christian 
Garros, percussionist. . . .Music 
flashed through the Hall in both 
slow and crashing movements - 
all extremely satisfying in a way 
which seems to accomplish an 
impossible jointure. . . .This was 
the Loussier Trios first visit 
here. They should plan to re
turn soon.
The Loussier Trio deserved a 
bigger audience - tffat is my 
only negative comment on the 
whole evening. All to often, 
people tend to shy away from 
an unknown performer, instead 
of greeting each concert as a 
new and maybd even exciting 
musical experience. Get the 
hint?
Thursday, April 8, 1971 THE TARTANPage 5
DIVERSIONARY TACTICS
by SHERRY SUKOL
Professor McTaggert, sponsor of S.T.A.G. movies, is pleased 
with the extremely enthusiastic audiences that have attended 
the first two shows of the series. The animation shoto last Sunday 
evening was very well attended, even though it was competing with 
Citizen Kane.
Professor McTaggart would like to continue the series next 
year. In planning for its continuation, McTaggart hopes to imple
ment two changes: First, he would like to run a show once a month; 
Second, he would like to see the length of the shows cut to about 
an hour and a half.
In a candid interview, McTaggart stated, When I do anything 
in my life, I like to have a reason for it. I love these movies and I 
want people to see them and love them too. The response so far 
has been very warm. He further stated that he would like to see 
more movies produced on campus under the auspices of the univer
sity. Its just as much an art form as creative writing, or painting. 
Movie making is like painting ... a very tedious art form that re
quires a knowledge of the materials that you are using. Professor 
McTaggart expressed the feeling that he would like to see stu
dents make movies with the help of people who know the fundamen
tals of movie-making. Kids do not see too many of the types of 
films that I am showing. I hope that when they see the weird and 
wonderful things that can be done, they will start to make movies 
on thdir own.
The S.T.A.G. series has been confronted with several problems. 
The massive amount of posters on campus makes it difficult for 
individual posters publicizing individual events to stand out. In addi
tion, students have a habit of removing posters from public places 
so that they may enjoy them in the privacy of their own rooms. 
The first show of th series was witnessed by only 120 people. The 
reason: nobody knew about it.
There was pressure from Point Park College to move the movies 
to The Playhouse. Professor McTaggart refused to do this because 
the series was initiated for the C-MU community. This is, to me, 
a series for the people I care about here, though people from the 
outside can come in.
In Program No. 3, on April 18th, the high point of the show 
will be Scorpio Rising. This movie was the winner of the Golden 
Cup, 11th Festival of Rapallo Italy, 1965; First Prize, Third Annual 
Independent Fil-Makers Festival. A throbbing work of vigorous 
and original genius, SCORPIO was the only entry to be applauded 
several times during projection.Elliot Stein, London.
In addition to SCORPIO, this show will include THE MUSIC 
BOX, an Academy Award winner of 1933 for the Best Comedy of 
the Year and GERALD McBOING*BOING, also an Academy Award
The Film Arts Society presents 
The Life of Emil Zola today 
in Porter Hall 100 at 7 p.m. and 
9:30 p.m.
* * * *
April 9, Friday: La Boheme, 
presented by The Activities
Board Film Series. Porter Hall 
100 at 7 p.m., 9:30 p.m. Tickets 
are 85 cents, 75 cents with Activ
ities Board film card.
* * * *
April 10, Saturday: Luv,
with Jack Lemmon, Peter Falk, 
and Elaine May, in Doherty 
Hall 2210. Showings at 6:30, 
and 10:30. Free.
* * * *
The Holy Outlaw, a film 
about Rev. Daniel Berrigan S.J., 
who is now serving time in a 
federal prison for destroying 
draft records and was recently 
named in a conspiricy indict
ment, will be shown on April 
16 and 17 at the Crumbling 
Wall Coffee House on April 19 
at Carlow College, and on April
21 at Point Park College.
The Holy Outlaw can be 
seen after 9 p.m. at the Crumb
ling Wall, 4515 Forbes Avenue 
near Craig Street. At Carlow 
College, it will be shown in 
the Kresge Theater, top floor of 
Grace Library, at 8 p.m. Point 
Park College will show it at 
noon in the third floor ballroom 
of Lawrence Hall Boulevard of 
the Allies and Wood Street.
the 2 annual
CARNEGIE-MELLON
FILM
The Trial of the Catonsville 
Nine a play written by Rev. 
Daniel Berrigan, S.J., will be 
presented to the public on Mon
day, April 19 at 8 p.m. in the 
chapel of the Pittsburgh Theo
logical Seminary, 616 North 
Highland Avenue.
The play deals with the trial 
of Father Daniel Berrigan, his 
brother, Father Phillip Berrigan 
and several others who were con
victed of destroying draft records 
in Catonsville, Maryland, on 
May 17, 1968. The New York pro
duction of the play received ac
claim, and has extended its run 
there.
* * * *
Mail orders are now being ac
cepted for the return engage
ment of HAIR, which opens 
at the Nixon Theatre on Tues
day, May 18. The schedule for 
performances is Tuesday through 
Saturday evening at 8:30 p.m.; 
Sunday evening at 7:30 p.m.; 
and Saturday and Sunday Mat
inees at 2:30 p.m. Those seeking 
tickets should send a stamped 
self-addressed envelope along 
with their check or money order 
and should specify alternate 
dates. Box Office: (412) 281-
6773.
White Roots of Peace 
Coffee House 
The Situation of the 
American Indians 
Dance Films Discussion 
with American Indians
Thursday April 8 8 p.m. 
Staff Cafeteria
rattlesnake charley rear

---------------------------------------------------

MAIDSTONE
LaBoheme
Directed byFrance Zefficelli 
PH 100 Friday, April 9, 7:00-9:30 
Admission-$.85
;For Sale - '68 VOLVO, Red, 
P-1800. Black leather inter-j 
ior. Excellent condition. New] 
studded mishelins.
931-6680
SUMMER BABYSITTER- Sit 3 
days a week for 2 girls, ages
2 & 6 from June 1 to Sept. 
1st. $1.50 an hour. Phone 
661-9573 after 6:00.
Due to the formation of a Commuter 
Club, AWS Council voted to elimi
nate commuters from AWS. Please 
tell us if you are in favor or against 
this decision.
IN FAVOR ? AGAINST ?
(CHECK ONE)
A Film
Norman Mailer
WEDNESDAY-APRIL 14 
7:00 & 9:00 
ADMISSION: $1.00 PH 100
AN AB FILM
KING
* recorded 310 singles
* recorded 33 LPs*
* played 82 college concerts
* won 2 grammar awards in 1970
B.B. KING IN CONCERT
SATURDAY, APRIL 24 - 8:30 
CARNEGIE MUSIC HALL
Presented by Activities Board
B. B.'s latest IP's available in the library listening center
Please mail promptly to the 
! Main Desk of Mo re wood Gardens, c/o AWS by Campus Mail.i
L

---------------------------------------------------

Thursday, April 8, 1971 THE TARTANPage 7
Graduation
eAosarsmup Liod OEfu ; S
gut hang on to yours, you will 
I probably find a million and one 
things to do with (or to) your cap 
and gown after you graduate.
And with every cap comes a 
tassle. I dont know how many of 
you are familiar with C-MU tra
dition, but there is quite a his
tory behind our caps and gowns. 
It is all written up in the com
mencement program but Ill give 
you a sneak preview here. The 
garb of faculty and students 
participating in the commence
ment ceremony is a colorful rel
ic of medieval scholastic tradi
tion. Then, education was the 
function of the church, and our 
caps and gowns have evolved from 
the monks habit. The mortar 
board cap is a development of the 
skull cap worn by churchmen of
ficiating at religious services, 
in 1884, the various caps and 
gowns used by American univer
sities were standardized by 
agreement.
The hood sizes increase from 
the bachelors hoods to the doc
tors and are lined in the color 
of the school from which they 
graduated. C-MUs hoods are 
lined with the Carnegie Tartan.
The tassels of the caps and the 
velvet borders of the hoods are 
color-coded according to the field
Blackman, 
white man
ure you 
both human?
Skin? That doesnt make 
a human. Brain? Heart? 
Emotion? Thats part of 
it. Something of God in 
every man? Thats what 
really makes a human.
We think there is 
only one race...
the human race. George 
Fox told us, Walk cheer
fully over the world, seek
ing that of God in every 
one. Many of us have 
in ghettos, prisons, asy
lums. We found the human 
quality everywhere, any
where. If there was ever a 
black and white case, this 
is it.
to nomP aooP ymygu2a auiu ry 
aEa oL Top rs uHuin dEsR 
NL yoP guiEgy au hu,ruLy oL 
au 8iruspy 1r,, hu myuLm, 
ao nom9 7u EHu yodu 3mrau 
iuEpEh,u ,uEL,uay9 4un0iu 
EHEr,Eh,u 1raoma oh,rfEaros9 
Wmya myu au 2omgos hu,o19 
r--------------------------1
SOCIETY OF FRIENDS [
I 4836 Ellsworth Ave., Dept. No. 312 | 
I Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213
J Please send ? free literature 
? location of nearest Friends 
Meeting House. I understand 
I so one will call.
ZIP CODE
6(5ltC
GENERAL
CONFERENCE
in which the degree was earned: 
blue for CIT, green for Industrial 
Administration, yellow for Mar
garet Morrison Carnegie College, 
orange for MIS, red for Fine 
Arts, and white for Humanities 
and Social Sciences. Originally, 
each school chose a color from 
the Carnegie Tartan, even though 
some colors differed from the 
professional color-codes (for ex
ample, orange is really engineer
ing, and red is divinity, NOT Fine 
Arts). But when the College of 
Humanities and Social Sciences 
was added a new color had to be 
found. Professionally, social sci
ence and humanity is signified by 
white, so C-MU adopted white for 
their tassles. When the School 
of Urban and Public Affairs 
(SUPA) graduates a class a color 
will also be adopted by them. 
Gold tassles may be worn only by 
officers of the administration or 
honorary degree holders. Among 
the faculty you may also see 
golden yellow for science, dark 
blue for philosophy, orange for en
gineering, pink for music, and 
light blue for education. Members 
of the military may wear their 
uniforms without academic robes.
* ** ?* +* ** ** *
* 
 WHAT'S THE ANSWER? }
1. Maybe our expert salesman can help you?
2. Consistant low (discount) prices.
3. Pittsburgh's best selection of darkroom supplies
and equipment.
4. Nikon, Pentax, Canon, Leicy, Pollei, Zeiss, etc.
5. Big selection used cameras with 12 month guarantee.
ROOM AND BOARD in Sq.j 
Hill offered in exchange for 
babysitting for Fall semester.; 
521-4708
{ Camera Equipment Specialists1
*
I fotoshop
* Squirrel Hill 5854 Forbes AveniHill 5854 Forbes Avenue *
421-7700 }
*Open Tuesday and Thursday Nights til 9! JCarnegie-Mellon University 
has a faculty marshal with a sil
ver mace to lead the procession.
The Carnegie mace is surmount
ed with a thistle, symbolic of our 
many Scottish traditions and of fj I I KJJ
Andrew Carnegies Scotch ori- fi ^ E
gins. The seven silver rods in the ) - - L_i_____  j_______
handle represent the seven col- B NON-STOP FROIVI PITTSBURGH
leges and divisions that were in _ mm_ 
existence when the mace was de-   1AIVIbTLKDAIVI
signed. The three silver rings
around the handle represent un- fl *21V ROUND TRIP
dergraduate teaching, graduate jj APPLICATION DEADLINE APRIL 8, 1971teaching, and scholarly research. M_____________________________________________________'_____
So there it is in a nutshell, jj UNIVERSITY AIR CHARTER
Now all that we have to do as rf 14 Buffalo Street  Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213  412-687-2860
seniors is live through one more if Please send information on 1971 European charter flight:
month, stagger to the ceremony, Name 
and prop open our eyelids suffi
ciently tO View all this passing - Address 
pagentry.
Phone 
University
EX-TARTAN 
STAFF MEMBERS,
PLEASE RETURN 
YOUR OFFICE KEY 
TO BEVERLY
Who Escalloped Potatoes 
By Ike Eisenhower.
JOIN AN 
EXPEDITION
The American Explorers Asso
ciation is currently recruiting 
applicants for salary-paid sum
mer and fall positions with 
private and institutional-affiliated expeditions to North and 
South America, Africa and the 
Far East.
Positions are available for 
both experienced and inexperi
enced male and female students 
in all fields. Students with inter
est and/or orientation in lan
guages, engineering, archeology, 
art, photography, teaching and 
all natural sciences are of special 
interest.
To apply complete a one page 
typed resume that includes the 
following information: name, 
address, age, phone, relevant 
work or recreational experience, 
education and/or areas of special 
interest, dates available, name(s) 
of other students with whom 
you wish to work, and any other 
pertinent information.
In May your edited resume 
will be included in our Directory 
which will be sent to over 100 
affiliated groups, organizations 
and institutions actively plan
ning overseas expeditions.
Send your resume with $6.00 
processing fee to:
American Explorers Association 
P. 0. Box 13190 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19101
Kindly complete and mail 
your resume no later than May 
15, 1971.
FURNISHED APARTMENTS
Spacious, Luxurious 
Remodeled
May or Sept. Occupancy 
391-3277 441-7269
(
*
Between Classes or at Study Break
-SCOTTY'SOPEN TO SERVE YOU 
24 HOURS A DAY
391S FORBES AVENUE
. . . and . . .
NORTH OF ETNA 7918 PENN AVENUE* ROUTE 8,

---------------------------------------------------

POND THAWS-SEASON ENDSEDITORIAL
by JUDE
TARTAN sports pages for the past few years has represented 
the opinions of a few fraternities on campusmostly the big houses in 
IM sports. Since Im not a member of a social fraternity, this po
licy wont be carried out this year. My aim is to present an unbiased 
view of the sports on campus in the articles written by my sports staff 
representing dorm rats, commuters, frats, independents, grads, and 
women. Did I miss anybody? The editorial is my chance to say what 
I thinkif you dont agree, what can I sayIm sports editor. All 
editorials are open for comment and I appreciate hearing your reac
tions.
This is an appeal to the various sports clubs on campus. I need 
one person from your group to report your events and write a de
cent article for the page. If youre not responsive, then I cant 
cover your sport. If youre having a special game (ie., with a parti
cularly tough competitor), contact me about it, Ill send a photo
grapher out to get hte story. Want people on campus to hear what 
your team is doing? Contact me, Jude Heller, c/o The TARTAN.
There is an Athletic Board meeting tomorrow, in which the fate 
of the IM trophy will be discussed along with the possibilities of form
ing a conference. Have faith, Lenny, the end is in sight.
Page 8THE TARTANThursday, April 8, 1971
Pi ir NB Iff^^bttito n sa laralie,trtf
f CV >?$ (Mtomm
CHUCK ROMAN of C-MU (left) moves in to attempt a counter punch 
after Marion Taylor (Illinois) blocked his front kick.
Photo by Tom Thomas
KARATE CLUB 
1 PUNCH SHORT
lillllllllllllllllllllllll I.M. SPORTS lllllillllllllllllllllllllllll
MAJORS
OriolesWLRedsWL
Salt and Pepper20TDP Blue20
PKT A20PKA20
SN 9B and AB20E. J. Carp11
SAE B02BSR02
DU02DTD02
Fringe 2024E- EJ02
T wins 
BTP A20
Pirates
Golden Tomatoes 20
ATO A20KS20
Oakland A's20E. J. Falcons11
Fringe A02SAE A11
Wendall WombatO2TDP White02
Morewood C's02JBTPB02
MetsW
INTERMEDIATE
L YankeesWL
History Dept.10Clackers10
M. B.'s10PKT B10
BTP C-Men00ATOC00
SN01Civ E. Hammers01
Oakland B's0v 1TX01
by TOM THOMAS
The University of Illinois edged 
the C-MU-Pitt Karate Club, 6-5, 
last Saturday as depth and ex
perience in the black belt level 
matches boosted the visiting Illini to the win. The C-MU-Pitt team 
fared well enough in the early 
bouts to post a slim 4-3 margin 
with four matches left, but garn
ered only one more win in the fin
al match.
A karate match is won by the 
participant who first scores a 
full point or who leads by a half 
point at the end of the two min
utes. Additional one minute per
iods are played as necessary to 
break ties.
Frank Djuth of Pitt started the 
home squad in the right direction 
by downing Chuck Aldrich in over
time. Djuth settled the matter 
with a counter punch after the 
two minute regulation time left 
the score at one half point each.
Alan Babich (C-MU) aided the 
C-MU-Pitt cause when he counter 
punched Paul Shimbo for a half 
point and the only score of the 
match. Steve Plato (Pitt) next 
caught Bill Near off guard with 
a perfect lunge punch for the win
EMPLOYMENT 
OPPORTUNITIES
CALIFORNIA ARIZONA HAWAII 
Professional/Trainee positions cur
rently available in all fields. For 1 
months subscription containing hun
dreds of current openings . . . and 
JOBS in the SUNs proven technique 
for landing your job! Satisfaction 
guaranteed Send $9 to:
r.U. BUALA JOLLA, CALIFORNIA 92037
and the only ippon or full point 
scored in the tournament. Paul 
Betten (C-MU) also found the 
lunge punch successful, slipping 
two of them into the face of Pat 
Lenihan to grab his match.
In a replay of last years riv
alry, Takashi Fujioka of C-MU 
knocked off Jim Kaplafka in the 
final pairing of the day. Using 
speed to offset a considerable 
size disadvantage, Fujioka ram
med home a lunge punch to the 
face for the only score.
Overtime matches seemed to 
frown on the Pittsburgh competi
tors as Tom Thomas (C-MU), 
Dave Weber (C-MU), and Chuck 
Roman (C-MU) all failed to sur
vive extended bouts. Rudy Krutar 
of C-MU and Bill Brice of Pitt 
was disqualified for excessive 
contact.
In an examination conducted 
before the tournament four area 
club members were awarded a 
first degree black belt: Bill Tomcanin, Chuck Roman, Dave Web
er, and Paul Betten. Four others 
received the highest rank of 
brown belt: Alan Babich, Steve 
Plato, Bill Brice, and Frank 
Rooney.
Fourteen C-MU students were 
promoted in the semi-annual kyu 
examination held Friday. Tom 
Thomas received fourth kyu 
(green belt), while George Males 
and David Wang were awarded 
fifth kyu (green belt).
In the white belt ranks Avil 
Kumar, Greg Terek, and Mike 
Pollack received seventh kyu. 
Eighth kyu went to Robert Tsao, 
A1 Terek, Kenry Friedman, Ca
thy Kranack, Howard Schweitzer, 
Mark Levension, Mark Wolynn, 
and John Solomond.
by JIM POWERS 
C-MU bows to Pitt, 7-6.
The Carnegie-Mellon Ice Hock
ey Club ended the season last 
Wednesday night at the Civic 
Arena, losing a close battle to 
the University of Pittsburgh. 
Outstanding performances by for
ward Mike Mackin and defenseman Rich Stein led an exciting 
comeback by C-MU to within one 
goal of the Pitt skaters. However, 
the real surprise of the night 
came from C-MUs second and 
third string skaters Ray Weaver 
and Rich Herlich who scored 
three goals between them.
Our players always seem to 
get up for the big games. Weve 
played our best hockey while 
losing to the teams who had a 
greater amount of depth and 
skating superiority, says a sat
isfied C-MU coach, Larry Jacobs. 
I really respect the guys on this 
team. Very few have played seriSCOTCH N SODA
Presents
The tennis team, coming from 
an undefeated season, continued 
its supremacy by beating Waynesburg, 8-1, last week. This fine per
formance scared the Grove City 
racket swingers into postponing 
their match until the Friday of 
Spring Carnival, thus putting off 
the kill. On Tuesday, led by sin
gles victories of Javed Khan, 
Phil Meyers, and Rick Smith, 
the team edged their toughest op
ponent, Indiana, 5-4.
Moving his talents elsewhere, 
first singles champ Javed Khan 
proved to be in fine shape on 
the badminton court by beating 
Commander Hill, 15-0, 15-1, in a 
knockdown, dragout match.
Right now it looks good for an 
11-0 season for the team, barring 
any flukes. Dont miss the next 
exciting home match against 
Westminster, Saturday, April 17.
Announcements
Track rosters due April 13.
GolfApril 12 against W&J, away. 
April 13 against St. Vincent, 
home.
TennisApril 14 against W&J, 
away.
ous organized hockey and skate 
regularly, but every man that 
skates gives his best. Thats why 
we play so well against teams 
like Pitt and Gannon.
The makings of a rivalry be
tween C-MU and Pitt were all 
present. Crushing body checks 
were thrown by players of both 
teams to try to slow each others 
rink-length rushes. Each team 
had its share of penalties as ten
sion continued to mount until, 
with C-MU trailing by one goal 
in the third and last period, Mike 
Mackin and a Pitt player decided 
to give the game a touch of donnybrook spirit. Both swung furi
ously at each other as the lines
men attempted to break the fight 
up. Although Mackin came up the 
winner, C-MU lost a bit of its mo
mentum as both teams managed 
to exchange goals before the per
iod ended, providing Pitt with a 
one goal margin of victory. Pitt 
managed to outshoot C-MU by
MINORS 
Indians W L
Donner Stronzos 1 0
PKTC 10
EZB 0 0
The Goads 0 1
APO Lopsters 0 1
a large margin, but outstanding 
individual performances by defenseman John Davies and fresh
man goalie Jeff Hart provided ex
tra incentive for the rest of the 
C-MU team. Exciting hockey is in 
store for both teams in the future.
Larry Jacobs will be C-MUs 
hockey coach next season. As a 
volunteer coach, Jacobs deserves 
much of the credit for the success 
of the team. He has given his4 
spare time generously to travel 
large distances with the team. 
Coach Jacobs has also been in
strumental in the development of 
plans for a Western Pennsylvania 
College Hockey League for next 
season. Having served as presi
dent of the amateur hockey league 
at North Park, Coach Jacobs pre
vious experience with hockey 
teams have a great deal to do 
with the success of a future col
lege hockey league. The C-MU 
team hopes to see Larry and you 
readers at the games next year.
Beer Blasts
I return to my pet peeve for 
this weeks article, the Intramur
al Trophy. My article, surprising
ly enough, has drawn much 
praise but little action. I think I 
understand why. It seems that 
to receive the necessary change, 
I must suggest a better mouse
trap.
With the elimination of the 
trophy and its absurd point sys
tem, competitors in a sport would 
not have to worry about win
ning a league. So brackets would 
be constructed with teams of re
latively equal ability competing 
against each other. What I am 
suggesting will eliminate the four 
or five slaughters which occur on 
the schedules of the top teams. 
Think of the football season next 
year, Jon Swizierski, SAE would 
play ATO, Beta, Pika, Sigma Nu, 
both grad teams, and the best in
dependent team. Each game would 
be a real contest, crowds would 
increase, and the champion in 
each sport will know that they are 
the best. No fluke teams will 
survive because of easy sched
ules, and no champion will be 
challenged as to their worth by 
the sports editor of the Tartan.
^iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiii|
For Thrifty Scots
rack attack [Coin-Operated Dry Cleaning!
8 lbs for 2.50 +,ox j
(Payable in Advance) |
{ Daniels Cleaners j
3803 Forbes Avenue  682-4690
^iiiiiiiiimiiiimiiiimiiiiiiiiimiiimiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiimimiiiiwiiiiiiiiiiiiimimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiin
FESTIVAL
Ecumenical Worship & Talkback
12:00 Noon to 2:00 P.M.
GOOD FRIDAY SERVICE
A Rock Opera on the Passion and Death of 
"JESUS CHRIST SUPERSTAR"
In Cooperation with 
UNIVERSITY AND CITY MINISTRIES 
.. at..
THE FIRST BAPTIST CHURCH 
OF PITTSBURGH, PEIVNSYLVANIA
Bigelow Boulevard at Bayard Street and Bellefield Avenue
