Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213
this week
Spring Carnival...............................page 6
International Exchange Program. . .page?
Swept Under.................................page 12
Men's Tennis Takes Opener. . . . page 23 
A Diagnosis of CMU Humanities. . page 19
April 6,1976 Volume 76 Number 23
Yacoe Wins S.G. Presidential election
JIn the recent election held to fill the 
post of Student Government President and 
twelve student senate seats, Peter Yacoe, a 
junior Chemical Engineering student was 
elected President. In all, Yacoe received 
44.7% of the 586 votes (13% of the s 
student body) cast for president. (He won 
in every college except CFA, where David 
Roussos, came in second with 26.4% of the 
vote. Larry Valery received 19.1% and Don 
Simon received 9.8%. The new senators by 
constituency are: CFA: Betsy Lynn
Klompus, Jeff Dayton, Mark Steinberg and
Clancy Martin; CIT: Elliot Popowitz, Bob 
Tekach, Sandra Lani and Robert Brown; 
Ams: Lorraine Wilson; MIS: Mark Koshute, 
and Mary Jo Chabala; H&SS: Steve LaffertyYacoes plans for Senate year include 
revising the constitution to get rid of 
ambiguities and inconsistencies. He also 
plans to ask the Board of Trustees to pro
vide more adequate laboratory, art and li
brary facilities. He feels that the athletic 
department should be a little more open 
about who they found. To help alleviate
student apathy, Yacoe feels that the Stud
ent Government President should get paid 
as well as the Senate Chairperson. When 
questioned about paying other people who 
participate in student organizations such as 
the TARTAN and WRCT, Yacoe said, 
basically apathy lies in senate. The paper
and WRCT dont seem to have that prob
lem.
Yacoe plans to appoint Jim Puder, a 
junior Civil Engineering major to the pos
ition of Assistant to the President. Puder is, 
according to Yacoe, a very close friend.
When questioned about specific qualifica
tions that Puder has, Yacoe stated that 
Puder likes to get involved and  is quite 
adequate for the job.
... Roussos Contests Election
by Joan Konkle
David Roussos, who came ir second in 
the election for president of student gov
ernment, is contesting that election. In a 
petition he and his supporters distributed 
Friday, he claims that the election laws 
were violated five times.
The most important violations he says 
occurred involve Article I, Section 1, of 
the Student Senate bylaws, which states 
that the president of student government 
shall be elected in a general campus elec
tion. This law was violated in three ways, 
according to Roussos.
The first is that students were improp
erly informed of the election. Student 
Senate did very little to advertise the elec
tion and make the issues and candidates 
known. The only opportunity the candi
dates had to express their views to the stu
dents was at an unpublicized WRCT pro
gram.
The second alleged violation is that 
polls were improperly designated and ar
ranged. In one case, the person in charge 
of the polls is said to have looked just like 
someone studyingthere was little evidence that an election was taking place. 
The third is that the polls were not open 
when they should have been. At the H&SS
and GSIA polling places the elections end
ed early, and other polls too were possibly 
closed down during hours designated for 
voting.
The other two violations the petition 
mentions is that a candidate spent more 
than the allowed $40 on his campaign, and 
that campaigning occurred within a 20 foot 
radius of the polls, which is not permitted.
In order to gain student support for his 
cause, Roussos held a meeting of interested 
students on Sunday afternoon. The peti
tions he circulated on Friday were signed 
by 150 people. Many more signatures were 
taken at the rallies held at Morewood and 
Skibo Monday afternoon, while. Roussos
was presenting his case, and the petitions 
he already had, to Student Senate at their 
regular Monday meeting.
Roussos is aware that his actions might 
make him look like a poor loser trying to 
get a second chance. He denies this, saying 
that he isnt sure he would win in a second 
election. He believes that since the major 
issue of his candidacy was ending injustice 
in student government, he must protest the 
election he feels is unfair, regardless of his 
chances for winning in a second election. 
Nonetheless, he said that the margin (265- 
155) between Peter Yacoe, the winner, and 
him would definitely be much, much clo
ser.
Peter Yacoe, newly elected S.G. President
Although Peter Yacoe, the newly elect
ed president signed the petition, when he was 
contacted by the TARTAN, his comment 
was, David Roussos is friend of mine. If 
he wants to contest the election, its his 
business. I think hes wasting his time. Al
though the Senate constitution does not 
state specific grounds for appeal, it does 
detail an appeals board that can be con
vened to decide disputed elections. In spite 
of this, Yacoe said It( the election) wont 
be appealed... all they can do is declare a 
candidate ineligible. I havent done any
thing illegal.
tPitsbi urrgh,ie nylv al15ibe
by Joseph Bartnicki
This year thirty-eight clubs and organi
zations have requested funds from the stu
dent government. The money comes from 
the activities fees paid by the students at 
the beginning of the semester. The clubs 
combine whatever money they can make 
through dues collection or sales with their 
allocation from Senate.
The Finance Committee checks their
2s3,ige Shb ptCh..ht
by Elly Zimmerman
I CMU is not the only school that waives 
athletics applications fees. This policy is an 
accepted practice by other PAC schools.
Raymond Haynes, CMUs Athletic Di
rector for nine years prior to Jim Banners 
arrival from Pitt, stated, One way or an
other Im sure all schools do it.
When asked whether such a practice was 
considered a violation of the PAC rule pro
hibiting preferential treatment for prospec
tive athletes, Haynes replied, If any 
school considers waiving the application 
fee as a preferential treatment, then that 
would mean a lot of things. Many schools 
in the PAC would be violating the rule in 
some form. Haynes -went on to say that 
while he was Athletic Director there was a 
meeting of all the PAC athletic directors. 
During the meeting, they were asked if 
Chtb3tli1 ht rs5i i356b
proposed budget carefully, cutting where 
they think is necessary. In some cases they 
approve of a budget larger than what was 
requested if they think of some additional 
items that should be included. 95% of the 
clubs have turned in their proposals. A 
total of $102,036 was requested. At this 
point in time $96,409 has been granted. 
This is decided upon the basis of need and 
how much money they have to spread 
around.
The largest allocation by far is the Acti
vities Board. They received $41,100 (as 
compared to the next largest, the TAR
TAN, who received $11,995). AB added 
another $20,000 to this through ticket
sales and other miscellaneous income. 
The Activities Board receives such a large 
share of the pie because of the many things 
for which they are responsible. They will 
sponsor, for this budget period, 62 movies, 
(2 of which are free), 7 programs (lectures 
and special events), 6 concerts (4 are free), 
the Honors Colloquiem, 4 large T.G.I.F.s 
and several coffeehouses.
The next largest spender is the TAR-* 
TAN which receives $11,995 from the 
Student Senate who is also able to add 
$12,000 in advertising fees. The majority 
of the money goes to pay the printing and 
photography costs.
Chtb3tli1 ht rs5i i356b
Science and Tech Forum Held
PIoESx nuoSEcum S?2P ESPEw? Urs5i d
by Mark Aksoy
On Wednesday, March 31, the last in a 
series of forum discussions on Science. 
Technology, and Human Values was held 
in the Wherret Room. The evenings topic 
bore the general title of Computing and 
Thinking with emphasis on the growing 
vulnerability of peoples self-image to in
creasingly sophisticated generations of 
computers. The participants included Allen 
Newell, CMU Professor of Computer Sci
ence, and a panel consisting of Pamela McCorduck, Professor English at Pitt, Carl 
Strome, Pastor of the First Bapist Church, 
and Herbert Toor, Dean of CIT.
The main speaker, Allen Newell, had a 
potentially hopeful outlook and referred to 
Count Rumford, who contributed to mod
ern thermodynamic theory by his observa
tions on heat flow in the boring of cannon, 
itself a purely military operation. In this, 
Newell saw a parallel with the computer, 
since what has been learned through specif
ic computer design has similarly yielded a
general theory, that of information proces
sing, which can be applied to the larger 
field of man and machine. Thus, the long
term effect of the computer will lie not so 
much in its problem-solving capabilities as 
in the insight it offers into the human 
mind. Newell defined self-image as a collec
tive view of humanity as a whole, and for 
the most part confined himself to raising 
problems inherent in deciding how the 
computer would affect it. Self-images were 
seen as semi-conjectural stories used to 
close wide gaps in our knowledge of ulti
mate questions. In our present day, they 
exist in a great multitude, conceiving of 
man as everything from brute animal to 
Gods special creation, and can be influ
enced somewhat by scientific discoveries. 
Given their number and tentative nature, 
the problem of determining how comput
ers influence self-image becomes a confu
sing one.
Pamela McCorduck took a more person
al view, concentrating on the individual
Chtb3tli1 ht rs5i i356b

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2THE TARTANApril 6,1976
editors note
An Interesting Sidelight
An interesting sidelight of the recent Student Senate 
Presidential Elections was the endorsement of one of the 
four candidates by the Carnegie Commuter Council of Pitts
burgh (CCCP).
The CCCP; which sent out its only mailer of the year just 
in time for the elections, endorsed the winning candidate 
Peter Yacoe on the grounds that he is a commuter. Although 
this might seem to be a legitimate criteria, it fails to account 
for the fact that three out of the four candidates were 
commuters and one of them had been very active in com
muter affairs.
What is the CCCP and what right does it have to use its 
CMU status (a privledge expressly forbidden the candidates) 
to make political endorsements? The current CCCP officers 
were elected earlier this year in an election which had very 
low commuter participation. Essentially, there was no publi
city before the election. The CCCP is the least known and 
least active of the three student government bodies on cam
pus.
Thus, the CCCPs legitimacy is highly questionable. The 
possibility exists that it consists mostly of a group of stu
dents (Chemical Engineers) who have abused their positions 
to support their personal friend, another Chemical Engineer.
The ramifications of this action to the integrity of the 
election are evident. For example, all the candidates are given 
a campaign spending ceiling of $40.00. The cost of the 
mailing exceeded this amount. Although this expense was 
incurred by the CCCP and not the candidate, the question 
does exist whether, given the history of the CCCP, this 
ought not to be considered a direct campaign expenditure.
The candidates are also forbidden to represent themselves 
as Student Government or Carnegie -Mellon University. Al
though University policy is that only recognized University 
organizations are to be allowed access to the computer ad
dress labels of the student body, the Commuter Council 
made use of this service.
It might be said that a candidate should not be held 
responsible for the actions of his supporters. However, 
the current U.S. Election Code explicitly states that the 
candidate is accountable for his supporters contributions. 
Furthermore, Mr. Yacoe was told in advance of the CCCPs 
support and had the opportunity to abort it.
I am in no way attacking the integrity of Mr. Yacoe 
or his ability to serve as the President of Student Govern
ment. What i am suggesting is that as a result of the financial 
contributions made to his campaign by the Commuter 
Council, Mr. Yacoe had an unfair political advantage over his 
opponents; an advantage which might have been the catalyst 
of his recent victory.
Student Senate should exercise its authority and question 
the legitimacy of the CCCP. It would seem that this organiza
tion is operating in direct violation of Student Government 
directives if it (1) subverts the election process; and (2) does 
so with the use of Student Activities Fee Funding. Any or
ganization which fails to provide service to its constituents 
and at the same time does damage to the existing systems on 
campus deserves serious review.
Gary Singer, Editor
NOTICE TO READERS AND ADVERTISERS: There are 
two remaining issues of the CMU TARTAN for the current 
academic year. These are scheduled to be published on A pril 
13 and April 20. The Deadline for all advertising copy is the 
Thursday before the publication date.
letters
Pitts View
Editor:
The Pittsburgh Hockey Invi
tation Tournament scheduled 
for March 13 and 14, 1976 had 
to be cancelled because the Carnegie-Mellon Hockey Team with
drew from the tournament on 
March 8, 1976. It was to feature 
teams from CMU, Pitt, Penn 
State and Westchester, Pennsyl
vania and financed ($1,600) by 
CMU and Pitt. The Pitt Hockey 
Club had contracted with the 
Civic Arena and was to bill CMU 
for 50% of the contract. Howev
er, CMU was not asked to sign 
a contract because we had work
ed this arrangement in past 
tournaments with your school 
and others without a problem. 
Besides, I personally know the 
CMU Chib coordinators and had 
faith and trust in their word.
I tried to get several other 
teams to replace CMU, but a few 
days notice was not enough 
time. Thankfully, because of our
relationship with the Civic Arena 
people, we were able to cancel 
the contract and play Penn State 
in a game on March 14. We had 
to work fast and hard to avoid a 
financial crisis.
Im certain the game between 
CMU and Pitt on March 7, 1976 
was the prime reason for this 
situation. The game was called in 
the third period because of sev
eral fights on the ice. CMU and 
Pitt hockey games are heated 
rivalries and both teams can be 
blamed for these misconducts. 
However, tempers flare in all 
sports where there is a keen ri
valry.
The evening after the March 
7, 1976 game, I received a tele
phone call from one of the CMU 
Club coordinators stating their 
hockey team was withdrawing 
from the tournament. I attempt
ed to change his mind and re
minded him of the $ 1,600 con
tract with the Civic Arena. I 
even promised to have the game 
scheduled so that CMU and Pitt 
would not play each other. He
stated the CMU Team did not 
want to be associated with Pitt. 
I reminded him this cancellation 
could hurt college hockey at the 
Arena. He stated the team had 
decided to cancel and he 
couldnt take it upon himself as 
spokesman to reverse that deci
sion.
I have learned one lesson 
from this experience and that is 
to make certain any future 
agreements are in writing. I feel 
the CMU Team acted in an irre
sponsible and hasty manner, da
maging the trust and faith our 
hockey club had in them for the 
past several years. However, I do 
not feel the actions of the team 
reflect on the club coordinators 
but on the club as an entity.
Robert Arturo 
Pitt Hockey Club
CMUs View# 1
Editor:
I feel an explanation is due to 
the people who have supported
Volum 76tartan
April 6, 1976Number 23
?13bhg 3t n63iM 
Gary Singer
'sts53t5 ?13bhggn6sgyie Mitch 
ale3tiee 'sts5igT Thomas Kirkland 
Sike ?13bhgT Debbie Rosenkrantz
?tbigbs3t.itb Editor:Randell Hunt 
OgsriAi ?13bhgT Rick Costa 
Prhgbe ?13bhgT Elly Zimmerman 
I6hbh5gsr6D ?13bhgT Elliot Popowitz
PbsMM I6hbh5gsr6igeT O3. fsv3stU 'sgD HsD xghlriU 9s.ie 9h6tebhtU Hsb63 mi3C6bagU 'sg7 Pi5syU fgi1 
P6s.y3stU nsgy 2iebU st1 Isly 23yy3s.eV
nhrDg356bi1 NRKd vD b6i nsgti53i $'iyyht pt3,ige3bD OuoOuSV O6i ?13bhg3sy ahsg1 gieig,ie b6i g356b bh i13b 
hg k3b66hy1 Mgh. rlvy3Csb3ht stD ChrD 3b 1ii.e ltM3b Mhg rlv3Csb3htV flt1i1 3t rsgb vD b6i Pbl1itb xh,igt4
.itb hM nsgti53i $'iyyht pt3,ige3bDU I3bbevlg56V IitteDy,st3s N0NqV ?13bhg3sy (MM3CieT P73vh 0) NJNN dN$ 
d i-bite3ht d0d hg JXNV ale3tiee (MM3CieT P73vh 0) :JNN dX$J00KV
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

---------------------------------------------------

news comment
OW? OuoOuSFurg3y dU NRKd$Is5i&q
" N?p o(w OW? O(I
letters
the Hockey Club throughout the 
year as to why we did not par
ticipate in the season-ending 
tournament with Pitt. As the 
readers may or may not know, 
the March 7 CMU-Pitt game end
ed in the middle of the third per
iod when we left the ice follow
ing an all-out brawl. Hockey is a 
violent game, and temper flareups are inevitable. After a few 
choice words and a shove or 
two, though, cooler heads usual
ly prevail and the teams resume 
the playing of a hockey game, 
which is the reason they have 
agreed to be on the ice in the 
first place. CMU-Pitt games have 
been notorious for the lack of 
agreement on this fundamental 
point. Pitts bush league tactics 
may not be out of place on Sat
urday night wrestling, but they 
certainly do not belong on a 
hockey rink. The games have de
generated into a series of skir
mishes, culminating in the 
March 7th battle.Pitt has repeatedly 
demonstrated that they would 
rather fight than play hockey, so 
with few regrets, our team voted 
unanimously to withdraw from 
the tournament and tell Pitt 
they had better find some new 
sparring partners for next year.
Im sorry our season ended 
on such a bitter note, but at 
least the air is cleared for future 
seasons. I would like to thank 
the people who stuck with the 
team through this lean year; 
thanks also to Mrs. Cox, who has 
been very helpful to the team. 
We hope to return to our win
ning ways next year by playing 
better hockey, and not by quick
ening our punches and sharpen
ing our elbows.
Michael Gallaway 
CMU Hockey Club
Position Reassessed 
Editor:
In your recent editorial We 
the Class of 76 you attributed 
a number of attitudes and ac
tions to CMUs Development of
fice. As a member of the Devel
opment staff, I am disturbed to 
learn that I and my colleagues 
are identified merely as a physi- . 
cal location. Let me identify 
myself as one of the individuals 
to whom your editorial was di
rected. I am also a alumnus, 
having graduated in 1971, so Id 
like to think that the remarks 
I make below are the reflections 
of an individual who has had an 
opportunity to look at the Uni
versity from the dual perspec
tives of student and staff mem
ber. With this background in 
mind, I would like to make four 
comments and raise one ques
tion.
First, the program itself was 
organized solely by an ad hoc 
committee of Senior Class mem
bers. The only function that in
dividuals from the Development 
office performed was to serve as 
advisors in the logistics and 
methodology of organizing such 
a program. At no time did the 
University commit itself to put
ting on such a program whether 
or not the students cared for it. 
Frankly, the involved students 
see the program as a good vehi
cle for initiating change here at 
CMU.
Second, in no respect are 
these funds to be spent by the 
University administration. All 
contributions over the five-year 
program period will be placed 
into a special holding account. 
At the end of this period, those 
contributing members of the
____________________/ -
Class of 76 will jointly deter
mine the application of these 
funds. I emphasize that partici
pating members /of the class will 
spend their contributions; the 
University will hot.
Third, the fund provided by 
President Cyert, which was des
cribed in y Int editorial, encom
passes a number of programs. 
There is no mandate to spend 
these funds (bn a Senior Gift Pro
gram. Indeed, the Development 
staff is not obliged to spend any 
of these funds. They were pro
vided by Dr. Cyert solely for the 
purpose of enabling the Univer
sity to underwrite new programs 
of special virture, such as the 
Senior Gift Program. Had the or
ganizing ad hoc committee of 
Seniors so chosen, the program 
would have been abandoned, 
and the modest funds necessary 
to conduct it would have re
mained unspent.
Fourth, in my personal opin
ion the number of signers of this 
Declaration who are not Seniors 
indicates to me that students 
from all classes are interested in 
having a direct influence on how 
money gets spent here at CMU. 
Freshmen, sophomores, and jun
iors must feel that this program 
represents a valid opportunity 
for them to make their voices 
heard as they reach their own 
senior years, or they would not 
have added their names.
And finally my question. 
Why is it that no member of the 
TARTAN Editorial staff made 
any attempt which I can discern 
to contact any member of the 
Universitys Development staff? 
We certainly would have been 
willing to accomodate your 
questions, and then let you draw 
your own conclusions. This rela
tively simple step might have
I have continued the practice 
of having lunch once a month 
with a group of students, ran
domly selected from the student 
body. There are between ten and 
fifteen students present. Among 
other things, I usually ask foi 
suggestions as to how I can in
crease my communications with 
the student body.
At the last lunch, the stu
dents present gave me a number 
of good suggestions. In particu
lar, several thought that it would 
be a good idea for me to meet 
students yin an informal setting, 
such as'lounges, studio classes, 
and intramural events. Dean 
Swank and I did some visiting a 
week ago Friday. I had the op
portunity to meet a number of 
Fine Arts students in their col
lege. I intend to do more of this 
and hope to be able to talk di
rectly to a number of you. I am 
concerned with finding out your 
problems in relation to the uni
versity and, in particular, to find 
out how we can better serve the 
student body. I am interested in 
your reaction to your education 
and to the environment that we 
are providing on the campus and
made it possible to avoid the in
accurate conclusions (a) that Dr. 
Cyert was the force behind the 
program instead of the seniors, 
and (b) that the program was it
self a vehicle for obtaining funds 
to be spent in any fashion so de
termined by the administration. 
If you had taken such investiga
tive steps before writing your 
editorial, I believe you would 
have found it necessary to reas
sess your position.
John C. Fisler 
Development Staff
Kanine Chess
Editor:
I have been trying to teach 
my dog how to play chess. To
day I showed it the puzzle in the 
March 16 TARTAN which asks 
White to play and mate in four 
moves. When I got to the point 
in the solution where Black play
ed 3. - - KXB, and got mated on 
the next- move, my dog wanted 
to play instead 3. - - K - N8 and 
I did not see any mate on the 
next move. What does Mr. Chess 
Corner say?
Hans Berliner
Computer Science
(Editor's Note: I would like to 
offer my sincerest apologies to 
your dog for he is entirely 
correct. However, this particular 
problem \'as submitted to me by 
my cat who was rather affronted 
by a beginner criticizing his 
work. My cat. Chess, is a direct 
decendent of Alekhines pet and 
takes great pride in his heritage. 
He believes he could beat your 
dog even with a capped pawn. 
Anyway / would like to thank 
your dog for pointing this out to 
our readers.)
in the dorms. I expect that there 
are problems about which I can 
do very little. Nevertheless, I 
want to know what is on your 
mind with respect to CMU.
Black Students
I had the opportunity to 
peak to the black students on 
March 8. This was part of the ac
tivities going^ on during Black 
Week. I found the experience 
stimulating and want to congra
tulate our black students on the 
excellent set of activities they 
developed. I was sorry that so 
few white students were present. 
I am still concerned, and ex
pressed that concern to the stu
dents at my talk, about the rela
tionships between blacks and 
whites on campus. I would like 
to see less isolation on the part 
of both groups and more interac
tion. I firmly believe that we 
have the opportunity to develop 
ways on this campus in which 
black and white students can 
come to know each other better 
as people. The simple notion of 
people relating to each other as 
people is still one that is lacking 
throughout a good part of our 
society as we have seen recently 
in the busing issue. I have tried 
a variety of devices to get more 
ideas on approaches that we
might take on the campus. I am 
now asking Dean Swank to chair 
a committee that will be com
posed of faculty and students, to 
study the problem of race rela
tions on the campus and to give 
me some more ideas on what we 
can do to improve everyones 
ability to live with different cul
tures both on the campus and 
off the campus. I consider this 
problem a significant one and 
would like to see this University 
provide a leadership role for 
other schools.
Richard M. Cyert 
________________President, CMU
Youllnever know how much good you can do until you doit.
Felipe know* how muck good hrcan do Ht don n every weei a a voluraecr M a home for mentaly icankd children
Lhl Cst 6iyr rihryiV
Et MsCbU b6igi e s CgD3t5 
tii1 Mhg DhlV Lhlg bsyitbeV 
Lhlg bgs3t3t5V Lhlg ChtCigteV 
O6iD Cst .s7i Dhl rg3Ci4
yiee se s ,hyltbiig 3t Dhlg 
Ch..lt3bDV
TARTAN public service

---------------------------------------------------

4Ys5i JFOW? OuoOuSFurg3y dU NRKd
announcements
Application request cards (for the 1977 en
tering class) for the American Association 
of Colleges of Osteopathic Medicine Appli
cation Service (AACOMAS) are now avail
able from A.J. Streiff in DH 2114.
Med-X: Applications for the summer pro
gram are available from A.J. Streiff, DH 
2114. Screening of applicants will be held 
on Wednesday and Thursday, April 14,15.
Kits containing information about Com
mencement should be picked up by gradu
ate and undergraduate candidates at their 
departmental offices during the week of 
April 19. Five Commencement invitations 
are included in each kit.
John P. Crecine, Dean of the College of
Humanities & Social Sciences will have 
open office hours for students, Wednes
day, April 7, from 1:30 to 5:00.
"EXIT INTERVIEWS" FOR ALL MAY.
1976 GRADUATES with National De
fense/Direct Student Loans and/or Institu
tional Loans will be held from April 5th 
to April 13th. Please call Mrs. Jacoby 621- . 
2600 ext. 219 or come to the Cashier's 
Office, Warner Hall Concourse to set up an 
appointment.
To All Fraternity Presidents: The lease
meeting scheduled for 31 March 76 at 7:30 
pm has been rescheduled till Monday, 
April 5, 1976 at 4:30 pm in Skibo room 
2. At that time Steve Zalewski has promsed that he will present a copy of the full 
lease. Please be sure that someone from 
your house is present. Thank you.
Applications now available for Forbes St.
Gallery positions. Contact either the De
sign Dept., Art Dept., or Skibo Informa
tion Desk. Forms must be returned by 
Tuesday, April 12 to the Skibo Informa
tion Desk.
CHRISTIANITY AND SCIENCE (66-314)
is the title of an interdisciplinary course in 
the College of Humanities and Social Sci
ences to be offered in the fall semester of 
1976. Following a rapid survey of tradi
tional problems at the interface between 
science and Christian theology, such as cos
mology, evolution, determinism and free 
will, the topic of science and miracles will 
be discussed in somewhat greater depth. 
Preregistration will take place in the His
tory Department. For further information 
contact Professor Robert Griffiths, Depart
ment of Physics, Science Hall 6309, phone 
621-2600, ext. 8816
All Varsity Letterman: Pick up athletic
awards in office 102, Gymnasium build
ing.
Student Dormitory Council will hold it's
regular weekly meeting on Sunday, April 
11, 18 and 25, at 6:30 in the Wherrett 
Room, Skibo. All interested dorm resident? 
are invited to attend.
The AB Film Committee will be meeting
on Tuesday, ApriJ 13 at 7:00 in Skibo 33 
This will be the last opportunity to suggest 
films for next semester and anyone can at
tend. Come and pick the movies that you 
want to see.
PREMEDtCAL STUDENTS: There will be
a meeting for all premedical and predental 
students on April 6, at 4:30 pm in the 
Wherrett Room at Skibo. The primary pur
pose of this meeting is to have a discussion 
of the Med-X program. Several students 
who are participating this semester will give 
brief talks about their experiences. Ms. 
Addie Selvaggio, the coordinator for the
program, is expected to bring us up to date 
on participating hospitals and any other re
cent developments. Refreshments.
"Eventsa" an exhibit of design projects by
students at Carnegie-Mellon University, will 
go on display in the Equibank building at 2 
Oliver Plaza, downtown, from April 13 
through 10 am until 6 pm, weekdays.
Self defense courses for women of high
school age or older are being sponsored by 
the University of Pittsburgh's Women's 
Center and taught by the Feminist Karate 
Union beginning April 13 and 14,1976, at 
the Falk School Gymnasium, Allequippa 
Street, Oakland. Two beginners classes are 
offered on Tuesdays from 7:00 to 8:30 pm 
or Wednesdays from. 5:30 to 7:00 pm. An 
intermediate class is available Wednesday 
from 7:00 to 8:30 pm, and formal karate 
training for advanced students is scheduled 
Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday even
ings from 8:30 to 10:00 pm.
Inquiries and registration forms may be 
obtained by mailing a self-addressed, 
stamped envelope to Cassandra George, 
1205 Hill Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa 15221, or 
by calling 731-3541 or 922-4950.
All women graduates of CMU are eligible
for membership in the American Associa
tion of University Women.
AAUW has more.than 1,775 local branch
es and 50 state divisions. Some of its con
cerns are study and action on timely top
ics; mpbilizing volunteer woman power for 
community service; securing equal oppor
tunities for women in education, industry, 
government and the professions; increas
ing public awareness of life-styles and op
tions available to women; and enhancing 
the intellectual and cultural life of the in
dividual in four broad areas: Education, 
Internal Relations, Cultural Interests and 
The Community.
Seniors desiring additional information 
about membership may contact Dean 
Lloyd, BH 260, who serves as the CMU 
Corporate Representative.
A new competition has been established by
the University of Rochester's Eastman 
School of Music, Robert Freeman, direc-i 
tor. A quartet of graduate string students( 
will be selected to become Eastman's grad
uate string quartet to assist and study with 
the internationally acclaimed Cleveland 
Quartet, recently appointed to the East
man string faculty. The competition, to 
be held on Monday, April 19 in Howard 
Hanson Recital Hall of the Eastman 
School, is open to any existing graduate 
string quartet or any quartet of undergrad
uate string students qualified for admission 
to one of the Eastman School's graduate 
degree programs.
Dr. Jon Engberg
Assistant Director for Academic Affairs 
Eastman School of Music 
26 Gibbs Street 
Rochester, New York 14604
YOUR
Permanently laminated 
on wood. Exclusive Non* 
glare Process by Lamin-Art 
Co.
Available at the 
BOOK STORE 
Baker Hall
The Department of Modern Languages and
Literatures will administer proficiency tests 
in French, German, Spanish, and Russian 
on Saturday, April 24, 1976, at 10:00 am 
in the language laboratory (Margaret Morri
son 310).
Any student may take one of these tests; 
there is no charge. The test takes 95 min
utes.
Students wishing to take one of these tests 
should sign up in the Modern Languages 
Department Office, Baker Hall 232-B, be
fore Friday, April 23.
Sierra Club Meeting: A sound-and-slide
program entitled "The Upper Mississippi: 
An Endangered Resource will be present
ed at 7:30 pm, Wednesday, April 14, at the 
Pittsburgh Garden Center, Shady and 
Fifth.
Carnegie-Mellon Department of Psycholo
gy Colloquium Series:
Friday, April 9 - Dr. Charles E. Osgood, 
Department of Psychology, University of 
Illinois: THE POLLYANNA HYPOTHE
SIS
Thursday and Friday, May 13-14 - Twelfth 
Annual Symposium on Cognition, Carne
gie-Mellon, Department of Psychology: 
COGNITIVE PROCESSES IN COMPRE
HENSION
All lectures are open to the public and will 
be held in Baker Hall 340-A. Coffee will be 
served before each lecture at 3:00 pm in 
the Psychology Lounge, Baker Hall 336-D. 
For additional information please call Mrs. 
Betty Boal, 621-2600, ext. 277 or 279. 
April 7. Film: Women in Love, sponsored 
by the Modern Semester. 7:30 p.m., Wherret Room. Panel discussion following the 
film with Pete Jones, Bob Morgan and Dan
iel Resnick. Free Admission.
La Table Franaise will meet every Thurs
day from noon on in the Morewood cafe
teria. Please come and lunch in your best 
French with us! (This activity is sponsored 
by CMU's Club Francophone.)
nmuPPEfE?w
Earn up to $80 per month for 4 hours of
your time per week. Donate Plasma at 
Sera- Tec Biologicals, 3407 Forbes Ave. 
(next to Arby's in Oakland). Open 8:45 am 
to 7:00 pm Mon-Thurs. 8:45 am to 4:00 
pm Fri. Phone 682-3190.
Summer Sublet in Shadyside. Very reason
able; acc. 2 or 3. Call 681-2142.
Want to Rent apt. during summer. Not
choosy. Contact Stafford Warren/OCMR 
no. 2741/Oberlin, 0hio/44074
Sq. Hill apt. Bartlett St. near Murray. All
utilities, private entrance. 3 bedroom, 
livingroom & kitchen, appliances included, 
carpeting, parking, transportation, near 
theatres, shopping and restaurants. Mr. 
Perlman 431-1500; evening 421-9078.
Sublet, June 1-Aug 31 : I bedroom Apt.
furnished, air-conditioned, modern secur
ity, near campus. Call 621-3312, evenings.
Apartment - Furnished one-toedroom in
Shadyside. Summer sublet with lease avail
able in September. Phone 683-0172.
Biorhythm Computer Chart- Know ahead
of time when your good and bad days will 
occur. Send today for your individual Bio
rhythm Computer Chart for each day for 
the next 12 months. Mail $5.00 along with 
the day, month, year, and time (if known) 
of your birth to: Biorhythm Data, P.O. 
Box 2437, Pittsburgh Pa. 15230.
OVERSEAS JOBS. Asia, Australia, Africa,
Europe, South America. All occupations. 
$600-$2,500. Invaluable experiences. Details 
25 cents. International Employment Re
search, Box 3893HI, Seattle, WA 98124.
[JatsnatiB
209 S. Craig St. 
Oakland 
621*0529
R sV.V $ 0 rV.V ws3yD
N sV.V bh J rV.V Psblg1sDe
LAYER CUTS 
WEDGE CUTS CHINA DOLL CUTS PAGETS 
VOLUMETRIC HAIRCUTTING 
VOLUMETRIC PPRM
Corse*s Hair People
f$hg b6i ysbieb 3t .itGe st1 kh.itGe 6s3g ebDyie 
2i eiyy oH
NN (s7yst1 u,itli

---------------------------------------------------

F
SPRING CARNIVAL 
SCHEDULE
zfoEwuL
OWpoPwuL
11:00
0T
0Tq
XTq
NTq
12:00
Pkiirebs7ie wie35t 9l153t5 
P6hk.hv3yi Ox O6i o6Db6. H3t5e 
'31ksD hrite
PChbC6 st1 Ph1s GGxy3bA/ 3t b6i 
P73vh asyyghh. 
f3gikhg7e svh,i b6i Pbs13l. 
'31ksD Cyheie
KTPkiirebs7ie Igiy3.3tsgD Z
NT'31ksD hrite
ugbe st1 ngsMbe fieb3,sy hrite 
Pwn I3Ct3C 3t b6i Oitb
NTqH3bi fyD3t5 ht b6i E' M3iy1
NToiysDe ht b6i fhhbvsyy M3iy1
T2sbigvsyyhht8xsAhgC63t5 ht b6i nlb
JTfg3evii ht b6i E' M3iy1
dTugbe st1 ngsMbe fieb3,sy Cyheie
XTqPChbC6 st1 Ph1s /xy3bAB 3t b6i 
P73vh asyyghh.
NT'31ks, VGGheie
X~'lb
$RW j g3Migz ;
PW(2'(aEm??SO?oOuES'?SO
V /MOWpoPwuL
0TO6i o6Db6. H3t5e
NNT'htht5s6iys o3,ig Pbh.rige
foEwuL V
NT9sC7 PV oh1tiD
NTws,31 fg3i1
NTq Gmslg3i ag3bi
Tqn6g3e (Gnhtthg
JT2hh1k3t1 Ql3tbib
JTqags1Mhg1 2hgb63t5bht
KT9sAA ast1
RTN0ost1D Hh,3bA
NTq2h.itGe nhyyiCb3,i
PuOpowuL
N2h.itGe nhyyiCb3,i
TI63yy3r aV fgst7y3t
qTIs. asgb st1
whtts 'sCwhl5sy1
KTpbhr3st wstCige
,KTqOghD nlg,iD EE
XTOigitCi nV 'Cut1gike! N
PPuOpowuL
KT Pkiirebs7ie
NT o(On (g3itbiig3t5 'iib sb b6i Ohr hM fys5ebsMM W3yy
NT '31ksD hrite
ugbe st1 ngsMbe fieb3,sy hrite 
NTq Iyst7Zhleb ht b6i mskt sCghee Mgh. '31ksD 
q  Ol5 hM 2sg ht b6i mskt sCghee Mgh. '31ksD
dT ugbe st1 ngsMbe fieb3,sy Cyheie
XTq PChbC6 st1 Ph1s /xy3bAB 3t b6i P73vh asyyghh.
NT '31ksD Cyheie
NTq uksg1 nigi.htD fhyyhki1 vD Pwn wstCi 3t b6i Oitb
MAl
SPRING CARNIVAL 76

---------------------------------------------------

Is5i d$OW? OuoOuSFurg3y dU NRKd
The Carnival Tradition
by Sue Murtha
In the beginning, Andrew Carnegie 
founded a school called Carnegie Tech. 
Carnegie Tech had one great untapped 
resource (not to be overlooked by the 
industrous Andrew), and that happened 
to be the alumi. And not only were those 
alumni scattered all over the country, but 
they were making MONEY - and they 
werent sending their revenues to him. 
With that in mind, Andrew Carnegie creat
ed a three-day extravaganza call ed Campus 
Week, which would invite all the alumni 
back for reunions and give them a chance 
to see what the college was accomplishing. 
Besides all these activities, there were the 
traditional ceremonies which now seem a 
world away.
The major part of this traditon was di
vided into three parts: Qualification Day,
the Carnegie Class Chain and Call Day. 
Qualification Day was the big event of 
freshman year in which the Plebes 
(freshman, of course), who had made it 
through the rigors and regulations of their 
first year, rose from the downtrodden 
ranks to become duly authenticated mem
bers of the Carnegie Clan. Part of this cere
mony involved the welding of a new link 
to the Carnegie Class Chain, by the head 
instructor of the Forge Shop, who would 
dress up as Vulcan (the god, not Mr. Spock 
- remember, this is 1920). Standing over 
a portable forge, he welded a blank link to 
the chain, the link later being inscribed 
with the class numerals in their senior 
year.
Immediately after the forging of the 
link, Call Day was held on the athletic 
field. This was the time when the honor
ary fraternities would finally announce
Midway Opens with a Bang !
by John McGrow
I cant believe its here already. said 
Gail Netzlof, Midway Chairperson, of the 
opening of Spring Carnival. At 5:30, this 
Thursday, a ribbon will be cut, and the 
Midway Main Street USA will be offically opened. The showmobile will be going, 
and the world renowned Boom Boom
26sb khly1 nsgt3,sy vi k3b6hlb nsAhgC63t5>
by Laurie Trask
A number of competitions will be going 
on this Friday afternoon, as a part of 
Spring Carnival. The annual gazorching 
contest-water balloon battle will take place 
on the cut at 2:00. The gazorching teams, a 
three member-team whose equipment in
cludes long pieces of surgical rubber and 
water balloons, will be judged on distance 
and accuracy. Immediately following will 
be a water balloon free-for-all, where 
balloon battlers will be able to take out 
their hostilities. While the water balloon 
battle will probably see no clear-cut win
ners, Linda Levi, organizer of these events, 
promised champagne and cold duck 
for the gazorching victors.
The six-person team events will begin 
on the football field at 1:00. The teams 
will participate in five different field 
events.
In the Six-Person Pyramid, each team 
simultaneously begins construction of a 
pyramid. Before the sixth person can climb 
to the top, he or die must shake hands 
with the bottom layer of the pyramid, and, 
if it collapses, the team must start all over 
again. The first team to hold a six person 
pyramid for twenty seconds, wins.
In the Water Balloon Toss, teams line 
up with three persons at the starting line
Muddy Fun
by David Matthews
Hey is your idea of having fun a team 
pillow fight over a pool of mud? Well, if 
this interests you go immediately to the 
nearest mental institution and ask to be 
committed. First, however, you might nur
ture this odd desire by entering either the 
Plank Joust or the tug of war at Spring 
Carnival 76 on Saturday, April 10. The 
plank jousting is at 1:30 pm. Here a team
and three at the turn-around line. The first 
person of each team runs out from the 
start line and turns around when he wants
riate person catch it.
The Seven-Leg Race consists of tying 
six people together, as in a three-leg race.
> V 
Pl*!
to. The second person tosses out a water 
balloon, to be caught by the first person 
without breaking, while the third person is 
running out ahead of the first, trying to 
catch the next toss. The three people pro
ceed all the way to the other line in this 
manner. If a balloon breaks, they must 
start over. When the other line is reached, 
the trio there must return in the same 
fashion. A person holding a balloon may 
take NO steps. The winning team is the 
first one to toss a balloon across the 
original starting line and have the appropWhen tne bout begins each sickie slaps the 
other chap (his opponent) silly with a pil
low (no lead filled pillows, please) until 
one of the poor slobs fall into the pit (no, 
not Skibo dining hall, I mean the other 
grimy gorge). When only five members are 
remaining upright (or semi-erect) on the 
planks the match is over. If, however, the 
contest exceeds the one minute time per
iod, and two struggling adversaries are left 
lacking horns on the same plank, a draw 
will be called. The teams will attempt to be 
matched according to height and weight. 
ut, bis. ysg73ts i3b6ig tM b6rr grt3grV
ot live wackos can compete in a test of 
true depravity. Five planks are placed over 
a slush filled pit. One member of each of 
the two competing teams is on a plank.
ments would be wise to stay away as, they 
might get stepped on. Three out of five 
wins are required for the team to win. If a 
tie occurs the contestants who drew (the
Gazorching!
The winning team is the first one to cross 
the finish line with all legs tied.
Box Balance Relay starts with each six 
person team split in half, with three people 
on one end of the fifty yard field and three 
on the other. The object is to balance a 
stack of boxes and pass it on to the await
ing teammate.
The Wackey Relay has five variations.
The winners of each race will be award
ed points. The team with the most points 
at the end of the event wins.
past tense of draw) will be rematched in a 
sudden death competition.
The tug of war will proceed at 3:00 pm 
at the same spot over the same lovely pool. 
Each team will have five members (alive if 
possible). One team will stand on one side 
of the pit, the other team on the other 
side. Then with all their might each team 
tries to pull the other entire team into the 
pit. Once a member releases his (or her) 
grip, they may not regrab the rope (but 
must remove all their clothing and rub 
ministrone soup over their entire bodies). 
When an entire team is submerged in the 
mire, and only the yellows of their teeth 
show the match is over, the remaining team 
being the winner.
Prizes of beer will be given to the win
ners at both contests which will take place 
on the top of the hill between the Beta frat 
house and Doherty Graduate House. 
Theres plenty of room for spectators with 
nothing better to do and who are possessed 
with latent voyeurist tendencies. Entering 
again this year will be the Roaches, last 
years champs trying to hang on to their 
crown as the reigning wierdos at CMU. The 
teams may be coed and comprised of any 
CMU inmate (faculty, student, that dog 
that is always running around inside of Ski
bo, etc.) If you wish to gain a more favor
able competing position, sign up your crew 
before Saturday at Skibo.
Zambelli will unleash an Atomic Bomb 
(a rather large firecracker) to start off the 
festivities with the proverbial BANG!
Along with the previously announced
8 to 10 rides, which will be situated at the 
Beeler St. end of the parking lot and in 
the main parking lot, there will be the 
WRCT broadcast truck, the A Phi O and 
CWEN concessions and the 20 game booths
* in competiton. WRCT, as usual, will be 
providing music for the entire midway, 
with its Sound of Spring Carnival 76. They 
are planning to broadcast Sweepstakes and 
are thinking of having some freebees.
12 fraternities, 5 sororities and 3 inde
pendents (Spirit, SDC and Hockey Club) 
will be reresented along the midway in 
the booth competition. This years theme is 
American Cities, and each both is de
picting a town or city in the United States. 
SAE is in San Fransico, KS is in Las Vegas, 
BTPis going to be in Bugtusle, DUs shoot
ing for Dodge City and ATO is heading for 
Milwaukee. Construction on the booths 
will begin Monday, and they will open on 
Thursday.
This years judging of the booths will 
take place Thursday evening and Friday 
afternoon. There will be trophies award
ed to first, second and third in the fratern
ity booth competition; first and second in 
the sorority booth competition; and first 
in the independent booth competition. 
Each booth is judged twice by each of five 
judges. The areas that the booths will be 
judged in are: Adherence to the theme, 
Uniqueness of game, Appearance, Engi
neering, and Enjoyability.
The announcement of the winners and 
presentation of the trophies will be on Sat
urday, April 10. The 10:30 ceremony will 
be in the tent in the stadium area, immedi
ately before the SDC dance.
Orienteering
by John Edwards
The Pathfinding and Orienteering Ckib 
of CMU has announced that they will be 
holding an Orienteering Meet on Saturday, 
April 10, in Schenley Park as part of Spring 
Carnival. The event will start at 10:00 am 
at the top of Flagstaff Hill, and is open to 
all members of the campus community. 
Entry forms are available at Skibo Infor
mation Desk.
The POC has set up three courses in 
Schenley Park. There will be both team 
and individual competition.

---------------------------------------------------

OW? OuoOuS$urg3y 6, 1976-Page 7
Back in the Old DaysVVV
their pledges of outstanding students. A 
professional caller was hired who would 
announce the names, and those chosen 
would run out of the spectators to sign 
their names into the pledge books.
The alumni took Campus Week out of 
the hands of the students in 1927 after 
unrest at the college. The Drama students 
had put on a play in which suggestive and 
uncouth language had been used, and the 
good citizens of Pittsburgh, not to mention
nuoSEcum ESf(o'uOE(S
1. Tickets for rides will be available at a 
10% discount until noon on Thursday. 
Strips of tickets will be $.90. They will 
be available on the Midway during car
nival for $1.
2. Tee-shirts with the carnival theme 
Mainstreet, U.S.A. will be sold at En
tropy, the Bookstore . and on the Mid
way at carnival.
3. Sign-up sheets for relays, gazorching, 
and other games are posted at the Skibo 
Information Desk. It is not necessary to 
sign up before the event.
4. The Arts and Crafts Show will be to the 
side of Midway. Its hours are 12 noon 
to 6 pm Friday and Saturday.
5. Fireworks will take place in the stadium 
Thursday night at about 10:30 pm after 
the concert (which is free to CMU stu
dents, $1.00 for college students, and 
$2.00 for all others). Tickets are availa
ble at the Information Desk. Good 01 
Boys with Frank Wakefeld and Peter 
Rowan will be appearing. Morningsong 
will also perform.
6. There will be almost full-time entertainmenta at the Showmobile throughout 
carnival.
the wealthy alumni, were aghast. Trouble 
started during the performance of the play 
during Campus Week, and the police were 
called in. Unfortunately, the police action 
culminated in dormitory raids and the 
student body replied in the timeless man
ner of all student bodies -- smoke bombs.
After the fiasco of 1927, Campus Week 
became a small, alumni-run affair in which 
the students had very little chance to 
participate. The tradition of Campus Week 
was revived in 1930 when students flocked 
to a Student Government poll to pledge 
their support. After a few revisions to pre
vent occurances like that in 1927, Campus 
Week returned, this time under student 
management and with the new name of 
Spring Carnival.
Major changes in the basic structure of 
Campus Week and Carnival were made as 
the social ideas and composition of the uni
versity altered. When women were admit
ted to Margaret Morrison College, the Carn
ival Queen program began. It gained more 
importance in the 1950s with the addition 
of Varsity Varieties, the sororities skits to 
present their respective candidates. 1969 
saw the last of the Spring Carnival Queens 
(as well as the old-time tradition, Call 
Day).
A float parade following a definite 
theme had been an integral part of the fes
tivities for many years, but due to lack of 
parading space, was curtailed and finally 
cut altogether in 1955. Emphasis was then 
placed on the Midway, which had been a 
collection of games, booths and a few 
rides, to try and make it more colorful 
and exciting. Trophies were awarded on be
half of this effort, first to fraternities, 
then later to sororities and independents. 
The Midway has continued to expand and 
be more competitive every year with such 
themes as Main Street, USA, Ye Olde 
Game Shoppe, and Great Movies. 
There have always been games and contests 
at Spring Carnival, ranging from canoe
jousts on Panther Hollow Pond (1938) 
to frisbee (1970s). There have been dances 
and concerts with current big names in 
popular music - Woody Herman to the 
Righteous Brothers. There have always 
been plays, since 1948 all original musicals
performed by Scotch n Soda. Last but not 
least, there has always been Sweepstakes, 
(the buggy races), for 50 years. It really 
makes you wonder - did Andrew Carnegie 
have the slightest idea of what he was geting into?
O6i Pk3ee ?-C6st5i
by Rosie Dauer
Four CMU students have been selected 
to participate in the undergraduate ex
change program with Ecole Polytechnic 
Federale de Lausanne (EPFL) in Switzer
land for students in engineering and ap
plied science. LEPFL is situated on the 
shores of Lake Geneva in the French-speak
ing section of Switzerland.
Diane Griffin (Applied Math), Veronica 
Magyar (Chem.E.), Stefan Fox (Civ.E. & 
P.A.) and Michael Candlish (E.E.) will be 
representing a program < establishing the 
first international exchange between engin
eering schools in the United States on a 
formal basis.
Academic departments within LEPFL
comparable to those at CIT, the only dif
ference being that the classes at LEPFL 
are organized somewhat like mini-courses, 
and it might take three or four of these 
mini-courses to equal a nine unit class at 
CMU (Veronicas sum total of courses is 
eleven).
While the engineering students are on 
the same level, the applied math depart
ment is a year to a year and a half more ad
vanced than CMU (Diane will be taking 
mostly freshman and sophomore courses).
The basic reason for participation in this 
program is the desire to see another coun
try and another method of education. 
While Diane and Steve will be taking al
most entirely technical subjects, Mike and 
Veronica are looking forward to taking
CMU's half of next year's exchange prog
closely resemble those within CIT. Empha
sis is on engineering and applied science 
rather than on pure science. While there is 
no assigned homework and tests are given 
on an oral basis, students attend class from
8 am to 5 pm, with the 4 pm hour sched
uled for humanities courses.
Most of the engineering courses are
ram. ( with Professor C.L. Bauer, Center)
non-technical courses such as music and 
art. The main concern of the students is 
their limited knowledge of French. (They 
have all studied for somewhere between 
two and five years.) All students are study
ing French on a programmed basis to pre
pare them for the lectures, which will be 
given in that language.gREGISTRATION PROCEDURES
Pbl1itb EtebglCb3ht Mhg oi53ebgsb3htU urg3y Nq$NJU NRKd
NV (vbs3t Mgh. Dhlg 1irsgb.itbsy hMM3Ci s nysee (g1ig fhg.V
V uMbig 13eClee3t5 Dhlg Prg3t5 Chlgei eC6i1lyi k3b6 Dhlg s1,3ehgU Ch.ryibi b6i nysee 
(g1ig fhg.V
qV Lhlg s1,3ehg k3yy srrgh,i Dhlg eC6i1lyi vD e35t3t5 Dhlg nysee (g1ig fhg. 3..i14
3sbiyD viyhk b6i yseb Chlgei y3ebi1V
JV (vbs3t Mgh. Dhlg s1,3ehg Dhlg rsC7ib hM nysee nsg1eV Lhl tii1 hti Mhg isC6 ChlgeiV 
ShbiT O6i ebl1itb tl.vig 3t13Csbi1 ht b6i Csg1e 3e b6i tl.vig k63C6 .leb vi lei1 
Mhg b63e ei.iebig i,it b6hl56 Dhl .sD thk 6s,i s 13MMigitb PhC3sy PiClg3bD Sl.vigV
0V nh.ryibi b6i ChlgeiU eiCb3ht st1 lt3b rsgb hM b6i Csg1eV 2g3bi b6i ChggiCb 3tMhg.sb3ht
3t b6i vyhC7e rgh,31i1V
dV wiy3,ig isC6 Pbl1itb nysee nsg1 bh b6i rsgb3Clysg 1irsgb.itb hMMig3t5 b6i Chlgei 3t 
k63C6 Dhl sgi gi53ebig3t5V
KV EM Dhl sgi ltsvyi bh 5s3t itbgstCi 3tbh hti hg .hgi hM b6i 1ie3gi1 ChlgeieU 6s,i Dhlg 
s1,3ehg srrgh,i st sybigtsb3,i C6h3Ci vD s5s3t e35t3t5 b6i nysee (g1ig fhg. 3..i14
3sbiyD viyhk b6i sybigtsb3,i C6h3Ci ChlgeiV
V oirisb ebire d st1 K ltb3y Dhl 6s,i elCCieeMlyyD gi53ebigi1 Mhg syy ChlgeieV
uyy ebl1itbe sgi ebght5yD itChlgs5i1 bh rsgb3C3rsbi 3t gi53ebgsb3htV Isgb3C3rsb3ht 
3t gi53ebgsb3ht Cst 3telgi Dhlg itghyy.itb 3t rsgb3Clysg Chlgeie 3t Pirbi.vigV EM 
Dhl 1iysD eiyiCb3ht hM Chlgeie ltb3y Pirbi.vigU 1ie3gi1 Chlgeie .sD vi Cyhei1 st1 
b6igiMhgi lts,s3ysvyiV
XV Lhlg Msyy ei.iebig Chlgei eC6i1lyi k3yy vi rg3tbi1 ht Dhlg qw Mhg. k63C6 .leb vi 
r3C7i1 lr ht Pi.rbi.vig d st1 KU NRKdV
PROCEDURES FOR STUDENTS WHO DO NOT HAVE 
A STUDENT CLASS CARD PACKET
NV n6iC7 b6i 1irsgb.itb Chtbghy y3eb bh eii 3M s rsC7ib kse rgirsgi1V EM b6i ts.i srrisge 
ht b6i y3eb st1 b6i rsC7ib Cstthb vi Mhlt1U b6i ebl1itb e6hly1 5h bh PC3itCi Wsyy 
XX k6igi s rsC7ib Cst vi rgirsgi1V
V EM b6i ts.i 1hie thb srrisg ht b6i Chtbghy y3ebU b6i ebl1itb e6hly1 5h M3geb b6i 
oi53ebgsgGe (MM3CiU 2sgtig Wsyy NU viMhgi 5h3t5 bh PC3itCi Wsyy XV
mhCsb3hte hM wirsgb.itbsy oirgieitbsb3,ie 
wlg3t5 oi53ebgsb3htV Plv.3b Pbl1itb nysee 
nsg1e sb b6i Mhyyhk3t5 yhCsb3hteT
GSIA 200 AMS 
CFA 210 Architecture 
CFA 304 Art 
Scaife 110 Biological Sci.
Sci. Hall 1325 Biotechnology 
Doherty 1102 Chem. Engineering 
Doherty 2214 Chemistry
Porter 117 Civil Engineering 
Sci. Hall 4212 Computer Science 
Baker 359 Design 
CFA 108 Drama 
GSIA 307 Economics 
Hammerschlag 106 Elect. Engineering 
Sci. Hall 2305 Eng. & Public Affairs 
Baker 255B English 
GSIA
Baker 240 History & Philosophy 
Scaife 110 Interdisciplinary-CIT/MIS 
Baker 260 Interdisciplinary-H&SS
Sci. Hall 6121 Mathematics
Scaife 406 Mech. Engineering 
Sci. Hall 3325 Met. & Materials Science 
Gym 208 Military Science 
Baker 232B Modern Languages 
CFA 105 Music 
Scaife 217 Nuclear Science & Eng.
Gym 104 Physical Education 
Sci. Hall 6325 Physics
Baker 342E Psychology & Education 
MMCBIdg. 107SUPA 
MMC Bldg. 307 Social Relations 
Sci. Hall 8101 Statistics
ShbiT EM s ebl1itb 6se giCitbyD C6st5i1 1irsgb.itbeU b6i rsC7ib .sD vi Mhlt1 3t b6i 
Mhg.ig 1irsgb.itb

---------------------------------------------------

Is5i XFOW? OuoOuS$urg3y dU NRKd
nh.rlb3t5 st1 O63t73t5
Chtb3tli1 Mgh. rs5i hti 
persons reaction to the thinking machine. 
She alluded to Marlowe in Conrads Heart 
of Darkness, who felt thrilled and terrified 
by the native societies of the African in
terior, as much by their new morality as by 
their existence in a totally free state, po
tentially menacing to the white European. 
Marlowe thus typifies Western man en
countering an alien intelligence, yet Ms. 
McTorduck confessed never having felt
I6hbh vD ?yy3hb Ihrhk3bA 
Professor Allen Newell
fears toward the computer and indeed pro
jected an eagerness to accept it as intellec
tual superior if need be. She referred to Ca
tos statement on the menace of women to 
society, comparing it with todays popular 
opinion regarding computers and went on 
to say that most self-images emphasizing 
mans uniqueness in the universe were in 
reality made by and for the male half of 
humanity. Woman has implicitly been left 
out of the uniqueness equation. If this was 
the image of Man that computers were 
threatening, then perhaps it was all for the 
better, in McCorducks view, for as a wom
an she was as much a threat to that image as 
the thinking machine itself.
Reverend Strome, of all speakers, came 
closest to playing the role of devils advo
cate in the forum. He downgraded the al
leged capabilities of computers, insisting 
that they should be considered examples of 
artificial memory as opposed to artifical in
telligence. However, he concentrated on 
showing how far computers were from re
sembling real human personalities, rather 
than whether they could simply evolve into 
superior thinking machines. Could we pro
gram a computer to hope or hate, he asked. 
Even assuming you could instill human 
qualities, would you then still have a relia
ble computer? For example, he hypothe
sized that a computer programmed to love 
might fall in love with its programmer, cre
ating a welter of problems. To Strome, the 
essence of the human psyche still lays en
shrouded in mystery with man retaining a 
measure of self-uniqueness by virture of 
the three pounds of gray matter in his 
skull.
Dean Toor tended to agree with Dr. 
Newell in that the advent of computers 
would shed new light on the problem of 
the human mind. He also observed that 
much of the fear computers engender
al15ib
Chtb3tli1 Mgh. rs5i hti
The only other major receiver of funds 
is WRCT, the campus radio station. They 
receive $11,114. $3,100 of this is spent on 
the phone for sports and other basic 
services. $1,410 for the UPI teletype. 
$3,876 for equipment and $1300 for 
maintenance account for its major expen
ses.
Also, $3,525 will be spent on the up
coming Spring Carnival (April 8-10) the lar
gest social event of the year.
This is how your money is being spent. 
A detailed breakdown of where everything 
is going is available for viewing in the Stu
dent Senate.
among humanists perhaps stems from the 
whirlwind pace of scientific change. Unless 
an intense and continuous effort is made to 
keep informed, one can become uncertain 
of the true capabilities and limitations of 
new developments. As regards the problem 
of maintaining ones personal self-image in 
the face of the superior machine, Dean 
Toor remarked that such a situation has al
ways existed between people. Nearly every
one encounters his intellectual superior 
sometime in life and usually allows for the 
others intelligence but simultaneously real
izes or rationalizes superior abilities within
himself in some different area of expertise, 
thereby salving his ego. u similar modus vivendi might result between man and ma
chine.
The participants each approached the 
topic from a different angle. For different 
reasons, none of them saw the computer as 
posing a real threat to mans spiritual sense 
of self or well-being. On this point there 
was an implied unanimity that such fears, 
at least for now, are exaggerated, and one 
can only wonder if centuries hence com
puters will ever develop the same fears to
ward their human creators.
fii 2s3,ige Wsrrit
Chtb3tli1 Mgh. rs5i hti 
their respective universities waived appli
cation fees for athletes. Many schools con
firmed such a practice. I know Allegheny 
and Bethany do it, Haynes commented.
William Elliot, Vice-Provost for Enroll
ment Planning, stated that he would not 
have this policy at CMU if it wasnt for the 
fact that everyone else is doing it. Were 
keeping up with the competition, Elliot 
stated.
Jim Banner, CMUs Athletic Director, 
was asked how prospective athletes found 
out that they dont have to pay the appli
cation fee. He replied, If they ask, we tell 
them they dont have to pay the fee. He 
was then asked if coaches were told to tell 
prospective students that they dont have 
to pay the fee. He responded, The 
coaches dont have instructions . . . They 
just do it. However, when Haynes was 
asked whether he knew of any coaches dur
ing his time as Athletic Director that told 
athletes that CMU would take care of their 
application fees, he answered, No way. 
Never even talked about it.
Both Haynes and Banner felt that such a 
practice was not in violation of the PAC 
ruling concerning preferential treatment, 
but their reasoning centered around the 
fact that other schools are actively engag
ing in this practice.
If they started lowering the standards
for entrance requirements for athletes, 
then this would be preferential treatment, 
Haynes explained.
nsgt3,sy wstCi
Jack Purcells Big Band, a twelve piece 
orchestra consisting partially of CMU 
alumni, will be the featured band at SDCs 
Saturday night dance, the last scheduled 
Carnival event. David Wolf, social director 
for SDC, stressed that although the invi
tations sent out to students, faculty, and 
administration stated that the dance is 
preferably semi-formal, any dress is 
permitted. The dance will be held in a 
7,200 square foot tent (it is larger than the 
ballroom.) between Skibo and the stadium. 
Awards will be presented at 10:30 p.m., 
and the music will start at 11:00 p.m. The 
dance is scheduled to go until 3:00 a.m.
SDC is also sponsoring a picnic at Fri
day noon in the tent. Free hotdogs, coke, 
potatoe chips, pretzels, etc. will be avail
able. There will be kiteflying in the IM 
field after the picnic.
All of the above events are free. A coll
ege ID is required for admittance to the 
dance. Guests are invited and will be ad
mitted free with an ID carrying student. 
Suggestions for songs to be played at the 
dance may be placed in the SDC suggestion 
box at the Skibo Information Desk.
ON SALE NOW!
C-MU JAZZ ENSEMBLE 
RECORDINGS
JAZZ! ROCK! FUNK!
Order at Skibo Information Desk 
or directly from Jazz Band At 
Spring Carnival
COST: $5.00
DON'T WAIT! BUY NOWi
UNIVERSITY ORATORY OF THE 
HOLY SPIRIT PARISH 
CMU CAMPUS
FROM ASHES TO EASTER
April 6: COMMUNAL CELEBRATION OF PENANCE 
AND RECONCILIATION ... 8:00 pm . . . HEINZ CHAPEL
We are given a chance to repent of the rongs that we have done to 
God and to one another, and we are afforded an opportunity to be recon
ciled to God and man.
April 11: PALM SUNDAY................ 7:30 pm . . . TECH HOUSE
... 10:30 am . . . SCIENCE HALL (RM 7500)
We celebrate Christs triumphal entry into Jerusalem with the blessing
and procession of palms.
April 12: SEDER SUPPER ... 7:30 pm LUTHERAN UNIVERSITY 
CENTER 4515 Forbes Avenue
A celebration of the Jewish Passover, from a Christian view, of Gods
rescue of his people through Jesus Christ. There is limited space available,
 Reservations are a must please call the Oratory: 681-3181.
Graduates & Adults .... $4.00. Undergraduates & Children . . . $3.00
Daily Lenten Masses:
12:00 Noon - Wed. & Fri........................................... Tech House
5:00pm  Mon. thru Fri........................................... Tech House
Saturday Mass:
7:00 pm ........................................ ................. Tech House
Sunday Mass:
10:30am .......................................... Science Hall - Rm. 7500
FATHERS JOHN WALSH AND BOB ENGLISH 
TECH HOUSE 5125 MARGARET MORRISON 621-2911.

---------------------------------------------------

OW? OuoOuS$urg3y dU NRKd$Is5i R
Frisbees
by Laurie Trask
The Ultimate Frisbee Team at CMU will 
be holding a tournament with Penn State 
and the University of Buffalo on the Sat
urday of Carnival. BU will play PS at 11:30
a.m. Saturday, CMU will take on PS at 6 
p.m., and the final match will be BU ver
sus CMU at 11:00 a.m. Sunday. Andy 
Cummis, a leading force behind the newlyrecognized Ultimate Frisbee Team, hopes 
that at least twenty flayers will come from 
each school, and that they will be housed 
in Scobell for the weekend.
Another event sponsored by the Ulti
mate Frisbee Team will be an accuracy and 
distance competition on Friday, open to 
anyone in the university who is interested. 
There wont be any advance sign-up, An
dy said, but prizes (Frisbees, of course) will 
oe awarded. All of the Frisbee events for 
Spring Carnival weekend will take place on 
the IM field.
After Spring Carnival, the Ultimate Fris
bee Team will compete against teams from 
RIT, Rochester, and Oberlin. In case ofrain the events will be held in the gym.
> I '. ' . . ;:.i ; 'I- ' V . a ; rBuggy Sweeps
by L.S.D.C.
Friday morning at 7:00 am a 56-yearold Carnegie tradition will continue with 
the running of the 1976 Sweepstakes (the 
buggy races). The buggy races are a major 
part of Spring Carnival, and to some 
the only part. The preliminary races, con
sisting of eight heats with three buggies in 
each heat, will be run Friday morning, 
starting at 7:00 am. Saturday morning, at 
the same time, the finals will be run. The 
finals place the top six buggies of Fridays 
races against each other for the top spots. 
(The top three run for 1st, 2nd, and 3rd 
place, and the next three run only for 4th, 
5th, and 6th places.) In the event of rain 
on Friday, the preliminaries will be held on 
Saturday, and the finals will not be run.
The races are being started very early in 
the morning this year because of a conflict 
with the Pittsburgh Flower Show at Phipps 
Conservatory. The buggy course runs 
through the parking area for the Conserva
tory, and the flower show opens at 9:00 
am, so the races are being started at 7:00 
am in an effort to be finished by 9:00 or
9:30 am. This will free the parking area for 
use by flower show patrons and cause a 
minimum amount of inconvenience for ev
eryone involved.
The races this year should be very com
petitive. The freeroll part of the buggy 
course has been repaved since last years 
races, and this should help to ensure the 
fastest races ever. All of the traditional 
buggy racing powers have been rolling 
quite well during this springs freeroll pracby Gus Bivona
Six students currently attending CMU 
have been awarded three-year graduate fel
lowships by the National Science Founda
tion, H. Guyford Stever, Director of the 
Foundation, recently announced.
Grants were given to the following stu
dents: Joseph Christie, senior Psychology; 
Peter Dixon, first year graduate Psycholo
gy; John Nelson, senior Chemistry; Ross 
Swaney, senior Chem. E.; Robert White
side, first year grad Chemistry; and Arthur 
Uber, senior E.E.. In addition, two grant 
recipients from other universities have an
nounced their intention to attend graduate
tices, with PKA, last years record-breaking 
winner, leading the pack. With a lot of or
ganizations freerolling so well, the quality 
of the push teams could become the deter
mining factor in the races. One darkhorse 
that emerged at the last freeroll practice 
was the new buggy fielded by the CIA. 
This new buggy was freerolling exception
ally well, but it is not clear that CIA will be 
able to provide an adequate push team to 
back it up.
school at CMU.
Graduate Fellowships were awarded to 
550 students in the sciences, mathematics, 
and engineering. More than 5330 students 
competed for these NSF Fellowships. Also, 
the NSF accorded honorable mention to 
1980 applicants.
All of the fellowships carry a stipend of 
$3900 per year to cover full-time student 
living expenses. An education allowance of 
$3400 is provided by NSF to U.S. institu
tions in place of tuition and fees.
Each of the fellowships was awarded for 
three years of graduate study. The fellow
ships may be used over a five-year period.
n'p Pbl1itbe xib SPf uksg1e
Prudent Student
 g u oivsbi 3M Dhl 
oieig,i viMhgi 
'sD Neb
Daniels Realty pays heat, 
water, and sewage for 
ALL apartments
FREE SUMMER SUBLETTING SERVICE
See Caretaker Apt. 1,310 McKee Place Daily: 11am-7pm 
 Call Frank for Appointment 681-9256 Weekdavs: 15 pm 
or Call DanT.Mosse (24 Hour Telephone Service( 471-1009
*
f' M3y3.3 'M('pOH'
TelephonewuSE?mGP o?umOL n(V
Long or Short Term Rentals with Subletting Privilea* 
We held the line on prices N O INCREASES FOR 1976-77 RENTS
Call For
Brochure

---------------------------------------------------

rr ,6 ;s$7sbsb 66b
nsgti53i'iyyhtCst bisC6 Dhleh.ib63t5Dhl .sD 6s,i
The subject M Im  and the ability
is leadership. p|| to perform under
The course pressure are
is Army ^ important. The
ROTC. The people who
entire cur- Jby  1|a demonstrate riculum is M 1.1 these qualities
exciting, challenging, and are the people we want to
flexible. So flexible that, if become Army officers,
qualified, you can enter at  As an Army officer, 
any time during your first you will not only have to
two years on campus. manage people but money
Through practical and materials as well. To
experience, you will learn make more important planhow to lead. The acquired ning decisions than most
discipline of mind and spirit young executives.
At Carnegie-Mellon, you can learn what it takes to lead.
CALL: Major Carey 621-2600 Ext. 281/282

---------------------------------------------------

OW? OuoOuSFurg3y dU NRKd$Is5i E b
A Bubble Gum Counting
CONTEST
SPONSORED BY ENTROPY
n
FIRST PRIZE
ANY TWO ALBUMS OF YOUR OWN CHOICE
SECOND PRIZE
TWO CARNIVAL'76 TEE SHIRTS
starting Wednesday april 7 
'till friday april 9 
WINNERS ANNOUNCED OVER WRCT 
SATURDAY AFTERNOON
. f _ R. ^ 9 ^ ^ . v N .....f
(no limit on number of entries)
;44) ' % .4) 
;4**%244D
by Carol Green
As a rule, common attendance by my
self at student musicals is unheard of, un
less I am offered an appreciable amount of 
money. Most student-written musicals or 
shows I have seen are generally a collection 
of in-jokes known only to the author and 
his disciples, which leaves the larger por
tion of the audience to fend for them
selves in a shroud of mystery.
But the author of Glitz has man
aged to rise above this and present us with
actors was very good, thanks to Director 
Jan Kirschner. The overall pace went well, 
and everyone on stage knew who they were 
and what they were doing.
Basic tacky Hollywood musicals have 
sets which are usually no better, but I 
thought this set was a bit too basic and 
tacky. During the Brown Derby bar se
quences, the set was always shaking quite 
noticeably, and no set should be so dis
tracting as to cause the audience to gasp 
with horror as it is being changed. Set De
signer Dave Fisher had a nice idea, but it
23yy b63e kh.st i,ig M3t1 6srr3tiee>
a show everyone could enjoy. John Manganos book takes us to the soundstage of a 
tacky Hollywood musical where anything 
goes, including tasteless musicals made out 
of William Shakespeare's Troilus and Cressida and Nathaniel Hawthornes The Scar
let Letter. The movie can be tasteless and 
tacky, but, as the show taches us, as long 
long as it has splash, tinsel, and glitz it will 
sell. Of course, no tasteless movie or show 
is complete without a trite love dilemma 
having the same characteristics. The author 
has included this as well.
was executed quite poorly.
The costumes designed by Dan Orlandi 
were a lot of fun. E especially liked the 
Caballeros costumes, which were quite fun
ny but not upstaging. Rosetta Rodrigues 
costumes were nice but just tasteless 
enough (intentionally, of course) to make 
them amusing. The Troilus and Cressida 
were straight and serious enough to make 
the whole number a riot to watch.
The lighting by Joan Racho played a 
large part by transforming us from the 
soundstage to real life and back to the
Happiness can be found by touching your knees
Charles Gilbert Jr.s music adds to the 
general atmosphere of the show, often cap
turing the mood very well. Some of the fin
est music is in the best-parodied spots, such 
as the spoof of the Andrews Sisters in 
a number called The Big Red A. Another 
number, in the same time period in the 
show, The Maternity Drag, was also a lot 
of fun. A couple of the numbers sound too 
familiar at times, but they can be over
looked as it coincided with the spirit of the 
show.
The consistency of the show and the
soundstage. I especially liked the effect of 
the soundstage lights. It produced the aura 
of a movie set quite effectively.
The choreography by Catherine MacNeal was well done camp. The dancing was 
executed in a way that caught the audience 
by surprise, making it enjoyable.
The acting company has worked hard 
on Glitz, and it shows. I dont want to 
single anyone out because it would be only 
personal preference. I would rather extend 
congratulations to the entire company. 
They deserve it.

---------------------------------------------------

Is5i N$OW? OuoOuS$urg3y dUNRKd
SWEPT
Dedicated to Rick and Sarah, with much 
respect.
by Mark Evan Chimsky
Swept Away is a delightfully trans
parent little farce which the American pub
lic has turned into an awesomely dangerous 
Frankenstein of a film. The people in Lina
shuttles Raffaella out in a small motorboat 
for a cool hours worth of swimming. They 
lose their engine, as well as all sense of di
rection, and wind up washed ashore a 
leafy-green desert island. Director Wertmuller fuels this idyllic serendipity with that 
old cliche of a crowd-pleaser, the 
switched tables fantasy fulfillment: the 
lowly Gennarino has a go at thrashing,
x3ttsg3th x3stCsgyh x3stt3t3 rysDe e6i37 bh 'sg3sthiys 'iysbhGe Mskt3t5 osMMsiyysV
Wertmullers world are sexually active poli
tical cartoons, walking satirizations of capi
talist ennui and communist hypocrisy. 
Raffaella is the rich, tediously married Ita
lian bitch who virulently dismisses the 
working classes and concentrates on an
gling her way toward the best Mediterra
nean tan she can get. Gennarino, a peasant 
sailor, works Raffaellas yacht through 
the blue seas of August, resigning him
self to the ships meticulously leisured 
pace. One windy afternoon, Gennarino
kicking, and raping the lordly Raffaella 
into passionate submission.
Wertmuller begins mixing her metaphors 
early. Communism triumphs over Capita
lism in an act of frenzied, vengeful envy. 
Raffaella, the strident blonde capitalist 
uses docility as a strategic means toward 
survival. Wertmuller builds Gennarino up 
as the Lawrentian stud supreme, and with 
broad, easy strokes knocks the wind out of 
his greedy chauvinism. Like Lady Chatterly, Raffaella is the expensive female who is
exquisitely brought to life by a rough-andtumble roll in the hay by this working-class 
firebrand. What is peculiar (and perhaps 
baffling to most American film-goers) is 
that the sexual tug-of-war which is super
ficially central to the film hasnt really 
much to do with the film itself. Wertmuller 
is an ideologist; for her, sex is not as intrin
sically interesting as it is convenient in 
terms of representing a political metaphor.
That Raffaella is female complicates 
things immensely, and people tend to see 
Swept Away as a love story (ironically, 
the theater marquee is more accurate with 
its robustly sensational billing of the 
film as a bizarre romance.) With Gennarinos brutal humiliation of Raffaella, and 
the establishment of a cozy Female slave/ 
Male master set-up, Wertmuller forces her 
film into the territory of feminist polemics. 
Suddenly, its no longer about the hungry 
peasant, Gennarino, whos out to possess 
an Italian-dubbed version of the American 
Dream; the film becomes layered with uni
versalities and theres Wertmuller, the head 
chef, throwing around bits of Total Woman 
philosophy as if she were decorating a 
pizza.
It seems wrong-headed to read Ms. 
Wertmullers film too literally. What she 
says about men and women is laughably 
simplistic and damnably lacking in any 
kind of self-respect or pride. Raffaella is 
the idealized female eunuch, looking 
frighteningly happy about her reduced 
human status. This characterization is not 
so shocking as the publics acceptance of 
it. Many see the film as a continental-style 
love story, as if Fascist relationships were 
the marvelously new in thing this year. 
A female friend of mine says she under
stands Raffaellas grovelling as one of the 
most popular-and traditional-ways in 
which women can relate to men and that 
yes, despite all that self-effacement, its
still love. Wertmuller feeds us a lot of Vic
torian drivel about women and sacrifice, 
and like Victorian audiences, we nod and 
praise. Such mass complacency is ludi
crous, if not anachronistic, in this age of 
the Jongian raised consciousness.
The trouble with the popular reaction 
to Swept Away is a matter of laziness; 
that is to say, audiences are taking the film 
too seriously, without bothering to dig for 
any of Wertmullers spry, allegorical 
humor. With pedantic bravura (which 
seems a smart satirization of Wertmullers 
own tough Italian ethnicity), Swept 
Away elbows its way around the natural 
ironies of economic role reversal. The film 
isnt about love, its about the confused
*&
'((SmExWOESx PnW((m ittsbu
'E^(m(xL n(poP?
Mhg rghu ,en r,yu
To Teach You Everything You Want to Know
About Bartending
You 'll Be a Bartender in Demand ora Toastworthy Host
Classes Will Be Held at.......
Conference Room 
HOWARD JOHNSON'S MOTOR LODGE, 
3401 Blvd. of the Allies, Oakland
First Session:
M/Erna9M *EARN EXTRA MONEY*
Mail Application Along with 
*36.00" Fee to: 
MOONLIGHTING SCHOOL 
5627 Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15232
Second Session: 
2i1tie1sD ?,it3t5eU 
urg3y NU XU 'sD 0* LEARN A SKILL*
Early Class at d p.m. Late Class at 8 p.m.
Ss.iV
u11gieeU
I6htiu5iV
Iyisei n3gCyi (tiT f3geb Piee3ht PiCht1 Piee3ht
Iyisei C3gCyi htiT d IV'V X IV'V
fhg flgb6ig EtMhg.sb3htU I6hti qdq$JRK 
<n6iC7 hg 'htiD (g1ig (tyD

---------------------------------------------------

OW? OuoOuSFurg3y dU NRKd$Is5i Nq
UNDER
motives which trigger and convolute cor
ruption.
For Wertmuller, the Communists are 
raping the Capitalists in order to have the 
freedom to become just as maniacally op
portunistic and petty as their prey. Wert
mullers thesis is that given enough power, 
the working class would become all they 
have supposedly despised; that they would, 
in fact, con to be more tyrannical with 
leisure than the leisure class they have con
quered. Gennarino opts for rescue from the 
island in order to test Raffaellas devotion 
and to prove to a class-wracked culture 
that a common man might very well be 
able to command the loyalty and slavish 
worship of a lovelv aristocrat. He cues a
t
passing ship with a bonfire and arranges 
to be brought inland in a haplessly naive 
feat of wishful-thinking. For him, the 
ultimate victory would be to return to civi
lization with Raffaella wedged firmly un
der his thumb--he wants to sustain, and 
thus, perfect his own ragged pride of rich
es. His love is a question of economics. 
Gennarino sports a vision of his romance 
as being some glorious robbery of a rich 
mans wife. He aches for the wealth which 
lingers around Raffaella like a fiercely ob
trusive, and at the same time, enthralling 
perfume. But once home, Raffaella has the 
upper hand and she knows it will keep her 
bread buttered. For her, Gennarino be
comes merely an enlightening lay, a sort of 
buffoon King Midas for a day. When Gen
narino receives Raffaellas farewell note, 
Wertmuller inteijects, as if from out of the 
blue, a booming female voice flailing the 
air with her mordantly operatic keening. 
Wertmuller is burlesquing the high drama 
that floods Gennarinos eyes. He is tearing 
for a romantic ideal that is forever lost to 
him-the dream of the slave one-upping 
his master. Wertmuller apes the grand des
pair of classic love stories in a luxurious 
gesture of comic irony. Gennarino and 
Raffaella have not loved--they have not 
sought one another in the workaday light 
of their own humanity. Instead, they have 
simply treated themselves to an island of 
fantasies and heady indulgences. Gennarino 
runs out on his brawling wife, who seems 
to be all breasts and hands, in favor of 
the less authentic glamor of Raffaellas 
world. He does not relate to her, but to her 
power. His melodramatic sorrow at the end 
of the film springs more from eternal envy 
than from any sort of eternal love.
What is frightening is the conventional 
affection with which American audiences 
are receiving the film. On the surface, 
Swept Away is very much like those
brisk and bittersweet comedies of the for
ties, but without the heart. Wertmuller is a 
grossly hyperbolic social commentator (the 
first few scenes aboard Raffaellas yacht 
are shrilly, almost intolerably one-note). 
The director is at her best when mocking 
the limitations of her characters or taking 
pot-shots at the transparent romanticism of 
the films external plot. She is a slick direc
tor, who** films feel imnressive, despite
their rampant disarray of metaphors and 
glib insights. (I much prefer the quietly as
sured, wonderfully accomplished-though 
perhaps less ambitious--work of Joan Micklin Silver, the writer and director of Hes
ter Street ) Wertmuller has been bally - 
hooed out of all proportion by a public 
that is enchanted with Swept Away not 
as political fable, but as profound love
story. Raffaellas servitude is a male cnauvinists wish-come-true. To applaud this 
film as sublime romance is to encourage 
the inequitable machismo dream. The film 
stars Giancarlo Giannini as the charming, 
pathetically brutish Gennarino and Mariangela Melato as the droning bitch capitalist. 
In Italian-though the dubbed-English ver
sion playing here looks as if it were syn
chronized by a deaf-mute.
* * * *
Editors Note: Murk Evan Chimsky, who 
has been this newspapers film critic for the 
past three years, will be graduating from 
the TARTAN as well as CMU at the end of 
this semester. Therefore, with the appear
ance of this review, he closes out his stint 
as TARTAN staffer.
Giancarlo Giannini as Ginnarlns
I
\
I
\
auPP2??9pSP Y w?^O?o Y a(oO nuomO(S Y auo?OMbuIP
OOn
AGI
O . cn
ngODO
CO^.
O>OUJ
33
O
CD
f-.m
G)m
ao
>Hm
o'*
discount
On All Regular Merchandise 
2EOW Io?P?SOuOE(S (f POpw?SO (o funpmOL EVwV
shoes
0X0 f(oa?P uc?V PQpEoo?m WEmm
'uPO?onWuox? auSHu'?oEnuow
OPEN 10-9
FREE PARKING
 Io( H?wP  W?o'uS 2(oHPW(?P Y ?VOV 2oExWO
COLU
LUCO
<
CL
<_JO
COLU
EQ_z>Q_
^COZ>
^

UJ
^o(J
COLU3O<
CO
<r
O
OO
CO<z
IQC
Ou
IMMORTALIZE SPRING CARNIVAL 
1976 WITH A T-SHIRT
Don't be the iut person on your floor or in your house to 
get a Spring Carnival shirt! They're now available at En
tropy in all adult and child sizes, and come in every 
imaginable (or interesting) color!
They're not even expensive! Adult sizes are $2.25 and 
children's sizes are $2.00, so they make great gifts.
Remember, the shirts are on sale at Entropy, and will alwo 
be sold during Carnival at the Cwens booth on Midway. 
That is, if there are any left after people see how great 
they look! So get your spring Carnival T-Shirt now!

---------------------------------------------------

lva 15 l23aCHESS CORNER
>seph Bartnicki would admit defeat at a match in Havanna.The Pittsburgh City Players opened 
their production of Toad of Toad Hall on 
March 21. This play, which will close on 
April 25, is the fifth production of the en
semble group. Housed in the Allegheny 
Community Theater of Carnegie Library in 
Allegheny Center, this group has brought 
free theater to Pittsburgh residents for a 
full year under sponsorship by the city De
partment of Parks and Recreation.
Marjorie Walker is the company director 
for the Pittsburgh City Players. She is 
pleased with the many accomplishments of 
the company, which has a core of only 
eight actors. The group has performed for 
various senior citizen groups and at many 
jcal high schools, in addition to regular 
iuties at its home theater. The acting com
pany provides classes for adults and child
ren on a regular basis.
The Pittsburgh City Players has avoided 
becoming an elitist grout. Ms. Walker beiieves that the theatei is like a Christ
mas tree. When peop; ..jnu ' > the theater, 
they all become the same. Old people, 
voung people, they come with expecta
tions. When the tree lights, it is the same 
for everybody. They bring different expec
tations, which result in different interpret
ations, but there are certain agreements an 
audience has which makes them laugh or 
cry. Theyre (the experiences) very special 
to each person, but they couldnt happen
to a person alone.
Ms. Walker tries to find plays with spe
cial qualities, and one of those is definitely 
Toad of Toad Hall Adapted from a novel 
by Kenneth Graham, the show doesnt fit 
any ofthe standard classifications of theat
rical productions. Slightly surrealistic, def
initely satirical, and containing pieces of 
fantasy, this is a unique entertainment ex
perience. The Toad of Toad Hall is not a 
musical, although there are songs in the 
show. The songs are very personal and in
tegral to the characters, not splashy, chorus 
ones that are found in musicals.
Toad of Toad Hall is the story of a 
charming toad who lives life as he pleases, 
taking what he wants from whoever has it. 
He is jailed by the other animals of society, 
but the toad escapes prison and gets re
venge on society. The trial scene is a satire 
on courts of all eras. The jury is comprised 
of hypocrites, and there are choruses of 
the toads supporters and opponents. The 
play reveals the injustices and preconceived 
notions present in most trials.
After Toad of Toad Hall, the Pittsburgh 
City Players hope to co-produce with the 
CMU Drama Department the Park Players 
summer program. Other possibilities in
clude presenting Fraijz Kafkas The Trial 
and a pantomime play called Tuesday. It 
should be interesting to watch the future 
of this enterprising company.
Chess masters have long been known for 
their eccentricities. Psychologists have 
credited them with everything from an 
Oedipus complex to meglomania. Paul 
Morphy, the unofficial U.S. world champion (1858-1859) retired at the age of 21, 
living the rest of his life as a paranoid rec
luse. He was given to oddities, such as ar
ranging womens shoes in a semi-circle and 
prancing around his veranda while reciting 
in French, the little king will go away un
abashed.
Wilhelm Steinitz, the world champion 
from 1886-1894, suffered from delusions. 
He claimed to be in contact with God, 
whom he offered a pawn handicap and the 
first move in a showdown chess match.
The world champion Alexander Alek
hine (1927-1935 and 1937-1946) was a 
Soviet expatriate who collaborated with 
the Nazis. He appeared at one chess ex
hibition and urinated *  n the floor.
Aron Nimzovich used to :and on his 
head between moves to keep the vital 
juices flowing.
Poor sportsmanship is also much in evi
dence. Joseph Blackburne, a British master, 
reportedly threw Steinitz out of a window 
after losing a game to him. Jose Capablanca 
(world champion from 1921 to 1927) had 
the room cleared of spectators before he
Fried LiVer Attack
1 P-K4P-K4
2 N-KB3N-QB3
3 B-B4N-B3
4 N-N5threatens NxBP forking
the queen and rook
4 ...P-Q4
5 PxPNxP
6 NxP!?KxN
7 Q-B3chK-K3 to protect the
knight
8 N-B3N-N5 protects the
knight andthreatens NxBPch winning
the rook
9 Q-K4P-B3
10P-QR3N-R3
11 P-Q4K-Q2!
12 NxNPxN
13 QxPchK-B2!
14 QxKPchB-Q3
15 QxNPB-Q2 Black is down four
pawns for a knight but has a stronger 
position to compensate for it.
Trap in the Petroff s Defense
1P-K4P-K4
2N-KB3N-KB3
3NxP?!NxP?!
4Q-K2N-B3? black tries to pro
tect hisknight but loses his queen
5N-B6chand blacks queen is lost.
w3sti Wiyie 3e 'hyi 3t Ohs1 hM Ohs1 Ws3y
i*
E
Its
Reversible
Wow . . . this great looking 
hooded jacket is just the thing 
for spring . . . wear it rain or 
shine over anything . . . it's 
reversible and its.............
htyD Nq
Atwood at Forbes 
681-7888 ->*>
Mon. to Fri. 10-9 
Daily 10*6
Howto fly home in 
the fece of inflation.
Plying home economically 
is simple when you take off 
on Allegheny. And take ad
vantage ofthe big choice of 
discount air travel plans. 
For instance:
The Liberty Fare.
You can go home and a lot 
of other places besides, with 
unlimited air travel at one, 
low price. You get a choice of 
plans, too. 7 days fbr #135,
14 days fbr $155, or 21 days 
fbr $185. Good everywhere we 
fly, except Canada. Advance 
purchase required.
Group 4 to 9*
Groups of 4 to 9 save up to 
20% roundtrip between any 
of our U.S. cities. Simply 
make reservations and pur
chase tickets 48 hours in 
advanceand travel to
gether. Our Group 10 Plan 
saves larger groups up to 
33-1/3$ roundtrip.
Fores subject to change without notice 
Effective April 1,1976.
The Freedom Fare.
Its brand new, offering up 
to 30% savings befbre June 1 
and after September 15. Dur
ing the summer season, the 
discount is 20%. Freedom Fare 
seating is limited on each 
flight, so advance reserva
tions and pre-purchase of 
tickets are required. Good 
everywhere, except Canada.
The Weekend Plan.
Take off as early as 7 PM 
Fridayreturn as late as 
noon Monday and save up to 
25% roundtrip between our 
U.S. cities. Good anytime 
including holiday weekends 
with advance reservations 
and pre-purchase of tickets.
Its your move.
See your Travel Agent fbr 
complete details on our dis
count air travel plans. Or 
call Allegheny. W6*11 show 
you how to fly in the ftice 
of inflation.
it r
(#7864)

---------------------------------------------------

featuring Frank Wakefield with 
Peter Rowan & very special friends
O6lge1sDU urg3y X sb KTq IV'V
Carnegie-Mellon Gym
u1.3ee3ht Mgii k3b6 n'p EVwV
O3C7ibeT N8Ch33V Pit ) lv33C
P
u,s3ysvyi htyD sb 
n'p EtMh wie7  I3bb pt3ht
S( OEnH?OP 2Emm a? P(mw uO 
OW? w((o
also: MORNINGSONG
) ' % .
=V " erhtegi1 vD sCb3,3b3ie Mii,,*
c

---------------------------------------------------

Pa'ge 16-THE TARTANWf5ff 67197^
PICTURE ROXY MUSIC IN THE GYM
i
Roxy Music made an appearance at the 
CMU gymnasium on March 28, and Tartan 
photographer Paul Williams was there to 
take these pictures. Bryan Ferry did the vo
cals, Andrew Mackay on oboe and saxaphone, Paul Thompson played the drums, 
Phil Manzanera wielded the guitar, Eddie 
Jobson performed on the keyboard, and 
Rich Roman added the bass.
Money!
PHEAA
All students, whether they are current 
recipients of a State Grant this year 
or not, must apply to PHEAA if they are from 
the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and are 
applying for aid from CMU. Those students 
who have not yet applied should pick up PHEAA 
applications at the Financial Aid Office
215 Warner Hall.
All Pennsylvania residents must apply 
even if they have been turned down
in the past.
PHEAA is constantly liberalizing criteria 
for State Grants and many more students
should be eligible.
DEADLINE FOR PHEAA APPLICATIONS 
FOR THE 1976-77 ACADEMIC YEAR 
IS MAY 1,1976.
For college students preparing for careers 
in the visual and performing arts
u11giee______
City/State/Zip
Parssss/IHew SchtslArts Apprenticeships
sburu cuMv Lhlg hrrhgblt3bD bh isgt 
ghr NNN W3 N Cgi13be k63yi 5s3t3t5 
rgsCb3Csy khg7 i-rig3itCi se st srrgitb3Ci bh s 13eb3t4
5l3e6i1 Sik Lhg7 rghMiee3htsyV
Apprenticeships are available in a variety of areas.
IuESOESx nES?'u
PnpmIOpo? 'pP?p'
IoESO'uHESx  xumm?oL 2(oH
n(''?onEum w?PExS uoO ?wpnuOE(S 
IW(O(xouIWL OW?uO?o
cEw?( wuSn?
uSE'uOE(S 2oEOESx
H Discover, up front, how successful professionals function 
in the most competitive and provocative city m the world
 Venture beyond the classroom environment to preview 
your field by actually working in a demanding professional 
environment
 Enjoy a semester in New York, the arts and communica
tions capital of the world, offering museums, galleries, 
cinema, theaters
 Audit, free, any two of the more than 1.000 courses offered 
by Parsons and The New Schoolwhose faculties include 
an impressive list of New York s leading professionals
For more information, mail the coupon below 
or call collect (212) 741-8975
N</
Parsons/New School Apprenticeship Programs in New York
IuoP(SP PnW((m (f w?PExSV 66 f3Mb6 u,itli Sik Lhg7V S L 10011
Iyisei eit1 .i .sgi 3tMhg.sb3ht svhlb b6i Isgehte8Sik 
PC6hhy urrgitb3Cie63re Igh5gs.e 3t Sik Lhg7
E s. 3tbigiebi1 3t b6i ? Pl..ig 76 ? fsyy 76 hg ? Prg3t5 77 Pi.iebig 
Ss.i_______________________________________________________________________

---------------------------------------------------

OW? OuoOuSFurOM dg3RKd$Is5i NK
**************************************
O6i I3bbevlg56 msvhgsbhgD O6isbgi will 
rgieitb b6i khgy1 rgi.3igi hM And What 
Were They Going To Do With The Holy 
Grail When They Found It, Mr. Rossetti?, 
s tik Ch.i1D vD 9s.ie wV P3..ht1eV O6i 
rysD 3e a k3bbD Ch..itb ht b6i lieb Mhg 
7thkyi15i as st it1 3t 3beiyMU st1U 3t b63e 
CseiU 3be iMMiCb ht .h1igt .sgg3s5i st1 
American y3MiV
IigMhg.stCie sgi eC6i1lyi1 Mgh. O6lge4
1sD bh Plt1sDU urg3y X$NNV uyy rigMhg.st4
Cie vi53t sb XTq r.V
The Pittsburgh Laboratory Theatre is lo
cated at 3300 Fifth Avenue, Oakland (cor
ner Fifth and Craft). Seating is limited. For 
reservations call 621-2876.
The Pennsylvania Ballett returns to 
Pittsburgh on April 13 as the troupe nears 
the conclusion of a ten-week, transconti
nental tour including performances in the 
United States and Canada.
The program for the April 13 Pittsburgh 
performance in Heinz Hall at 8:00 pm fea
tures a new staging by Margarita de Saa of 
the Fokine masterpieces Les Sylphides, to 
music of Frederic Chopin; a Pittsburgh pre
miere of Dutch choreographer Hans van 
Manens comic ballet Septet Extra-, and the 
classic, The Four Temperaments, choreo
graphed by George Balanchine to a score 
by Paul Hindemith.
The Pennsylvania Ballet has been des
cribed by Clive Barnes of The New York 
Times as . . . absolutely one of the best 
troupes in the country ... a must for 
dance lovers. This is the companys 
second appearance in Pittsburgh this 
season, following a tour including Los 
Angeles, Winnepeg, Denver, and New York 
City, and is part of a series of programs 
presented by the Pittsburgh Dance Council.
Tickets for the April 13 performance 
are available at Heinz Hall Box Office, 
Gimbels, Homes, and Kaufmanns; prices 
range from $7.50 to $4.50, with discounts
to senior citizens and students available at 
Heinz Hall. For group discounts, phone 
355-0330.
The International Poetry Forum will 
present its final poetry reading of the sea
son on April 7, with Frederick Morgan and 
William Stafford. This joint reading will be 
held at Carnegie Lecture Hall at 8:00 pm. 
Mr. Morgans first collection of poems, A 
Book of Change, was nominated for the 
1973 National Book Award in Poetry. !n
1948 Mr. Morgan co-founded The Hudson 
Review and has also edited and contributed 
to several anthologies. In addition to this, 
he has translated from Catallus, Baudelaire 
and Mallarm.
William Stafford, winner of the National 
Book Award for Poetry in 1963 for Travel
ing Through the Dark, is also the author of 
four other volumes of poetry, including his 
most recent, Someday, Maybe. He served 
as a consultant in poetry to the Library of 
Congress for the 1970-1971 term and is a 
professor of English at Lewis and Clark 
, College in Portland, Oregon.
Tickets are $3.00 and are available to 
students and senior citizens for $2.00, 
They may be purchased at Kaufmanns, 
Sears, the Pitt Student Union and the 
Poetry Forum office in Carnegie Library 
(Oakland). For more information call 
621-9895.
The International Poetry Forum is 
sponsored by the Carnegie Library under a 
grant from the A. W. Mellon Educational 
and Charitable Trust.
Bernard Goldberg, whose golden flute 
and shining sound have been a hallmark 
of Pittsburgh Symphony performances 
since 1947, brings his artistry to the Jew
ish Community Center, 315 South Bellefield Ave., on Wednesday, April.7, at 
8:15 pm. This will be the final concert of 
the Y Music Societys much lauded Golden 
Anniversary season.
An Evening with Lindsay Anderson
m3t1esD ut1igehtU 13giCbhg hM O63e 
rhgb3t5 m3MiV EM V VVV (6V mlC7D 
'st! st1 Et niyivgsb3htU se kiyy se 
h,ig s 1hAit 3.rhgbstb e6hgb M3y.eU 
3e syeh st sgb3eb3C 13giCbhg hM b6i 
mht1ht ohDsy nhlgb O6isbgiU k6igi 
6i 6se viit C63iMyD seehC3sbi1 k3b6 
b6i khg7 hM rysDkg356b ws,31 PbhgiDV 
'gV ut1igeht 3e seelgi1yD hti hM b6i 
.heb sgb3Clysbi st1 3tbiyy35itb .it 
i,ig bh ebst1 vi63t1 s yiCblgi 
rh13l.V
Wed. April 14 
8:00 P.M. 
Skibo Ballroom
Prhtehgi1 vD 
ua miCblgie  
PriC3sy ?,itbe
flt1i1 vDT 
uCb3,3b3ie fii
The flutists program, called Bernard 
Goldberg and Friends, features an array 
of unusually beautiful flute music in ensem
ble combinations which are rarely per
formed.
Mr. Goldbergs friends include pianist 
Gladys Stein, mezzo soprano Julia May, 
cellist Allen Sher and modem dancer Betty 
Malezi Hollingsworth. They will perform 
a program which includes the Suite Modale 
by Bloch, Schuberts Introduction, Theme 
and Variations, and Duo for Flute and 
Dancer by Ezra Laderman, a Psalm Cycle 
bv Walter S. Hartley, Charles Ives song 
Over There" with Mr. Goldberg playing 
the piccolo, and the Bohuslav Martinu 
Trio.
Tickets to this unique concert may be 
obtained by calling 521-8010.
Actors from Community College and 
the community in general are working to
gether to present Dark of the Moon, an in
timate, yet intense fantasy in the captiva
ting setting of the Smokey Mountains. A 
Tennessee dialect adds color to the play 
and at times gives it the moving, poetic 
quality of a folk ballad. The story tells 
of a young witch boy who falls in love with 
a beautiful mountain girl. Their love is the 
object  of much fearful meddling by the 
superstitious townsfolk, resulting in vio
lence and tragedy for some.
The play, directed by Dr. Anne Youens 
of Community College, Allegheny Campus, 
with musical director, Chris Pignoli, will 
be the first public performance in the new 
College-Community Theater on the 5th 
floor of the library at Allegheny Campus, 
Ridge Avenue.
Performance dates are Friday, Saturday, 
and Sunday, April 9, 10, 11, at 8:30 pm. 
Admission is free.
Sculpture by area artists will be shown 
in an exhibition called Sites: Public &
Private at the Arts and Crafts Center of 
Pittsburgh from March 27 through April 
18. The show, in two parts, is being spon
sored by the Society of Sculptors of 
Western Pennsylvania.
Exhibition category number I, called 
Sites: Public, will include entries to an 
open competition for monumental sculp
tures to be permanently placed on public 
Pittsburgh sites. Fred A. Myers, Director of 
the Grand Rapids Art Museum, chose 20 
models by 16 artists for public sites. The 
judge also selected four of the designs to be 
commissioned and fabricated full scale for 
permanent installation on designated loca
tions, subject to budget and safety limita
tions.
Exhibition category number II, called 
Sites: Private, will include sculptures for 
homes, offices and gardens. Mr. Myers 
chose 38 pieces by 30 artists for this sec
tion.
The Sites: Public project was planned 
by a committee headed by Aaronel deRoy 
Gruber, President of the Society of Sculp
tors with funds and City liaison achieved 
by a Three Rivers Arts Festival Committee. 
A grant from the Pennsylvania Council on 
the Arts, met by local donations and inkind materials and services with a combin
ed valued of approximately $30,000 is 
available for completion of the competi
tion winning sculptures. Mrs. Marshall 
Berkman and Mrs. Maurice Cerul are co-representatives for theThree Rivers Arts Fes
tival Committee and Douglas Pickering is 
exhibition chairman for the Society of 
Sculptors.
The Arts and Crafts Center, scene of the 
Sites: Public & Private show, is open to the 
public, free of charge, from 10-5 Tuesdays 
through Saturdays and from 2-5 Sundays 
(closed Mondays). The exhibition will be 
open until April 17.
RIDE REDUCTIONS
Yo-Yo
Bumpercars 
Sky Diver 
Zipper 
Carousel
Kiddy Rides 
Hurricane 
Ferris Whee 
Trabant 
40-foot Slide
Do you get a gleam in your eye when you see any of these 
rides - even when you hear the name? Well, they're all at 
Spring Carnival this year! If you're a ride addict or just like 
sedate trips on a merry-go-round, this is the offer for you. 
Spring Carnival is offering a 10% ride reduction if you buy 
tickets before noon, Thursday April 10. The tickets are 
available at Skibo Information Desk now through the 
deadline. There are no limits on how many you can buy, so 
go have a blast!
man
SPRING CARNIVAL 76

---------------------------------------------------

Is5i NX$OW? OuoOuSFurg3y dU NRKd
(t mis7D fgii1h.
by Michael S. Baurer
When the Bill of Rights was written, the 
first amendment to the Constitution guar
anteed to the American people, among 
other things, the right to freedom of the 
press. This right has undergone some sev
ere tests in our two-hundred year history. 
Possibly, this is because the term freedom 
of speech was never explicitly defined, 
but, like much of the Constitutions ver
biage, was left open to interpretation. Or 
possibly, the framers of the Constitution 
and Bill of Rights felt these words were 
sufficiently clear in their collective mean
ing that further explication of them was 
unnecessary. Regardless, we are stuck with 
them as they are, and the extent to which 
their application is justifiable is once again 
in question.
In its February 16 issue, the Village 
Voice, in defiance of a House resolution, 
printed extensive excerpts from the report 
by the House Intelligence Committee on 
the CIA. This represented another in a ser
ies of news leaks to the press by people 
in the governmental hierarchy. Drafts of 
the Intelligence Committees report had 
been previously leaked to a few news or
ganizations, such as The New York Times 
and CBS, apparently by one or more 
naughty Congressmen, and the information 
they contained was subsequently publi
cized. The House passed a resolution soon 
afterward prohibiting official release of the 
report until White House staff had an op
portunity to delete from it all classified 
material. But somehow, a complete draft 
was leaked to Daniel Schorr of CBS, which 
he later turned over to the Village Voice.
The Voice, in fact, was the only pub
lication willing to take the risk of printing 
his material. But Schorr had no intention of 
reaping the enormous profit which the ar
ticle could logically be expected to bring 
and asked instead that his share be turned 
over to the Reporters Committee for Free
dom of the Press, a small professional or
ganization operating out of Washington, 
D.C. In a letter to the editor of The New 
York Times, written February 16 and pub
lished the following Sunday, Schorr said, 
I found myself unexpectedly, because of 
a surprise action by the House, in posses
sion of possibly the only available copy of 
a report, bearing no classification on its 
face, its principle sensations already di
vulged, tied up in a confused parliamentary 
situation. My problem was that doing noth
ing would mean that I would be suppres
sing a report that might be interesting as a 
matter of public record. It had nothing 
more of national security significance, cer
tainly nothing that would endanger any in
dividual.
Schorrs reasons for doing what he did, 
for risking the contempt of Congress 
charges that some Congressmen are now 
endeavoring to bring against him, rest on 
his strong, albeit dogmatic, beliefs of what 
the press is and ought to be. The words 
freedom of the press imply more than 
simply the right of a paper to print or of a 
station to broadcast; they encompass the 
right of the people to know, to be aware 
of the realities and intentions of their gov
ernment, sinister or benign. Thus, a jour
nalist is confronted with a decision either 
to print or not to print, his first duty is to 
the public, although the responsibility for 
his actions is his own.
The leaking of government information 
admittedly poses a potential threat to the 
nations security. For the United States to 
remain a formidable contender in the sor
did geo-political game which characterizes 
our modern world, and which inescapably 
she must play, the need for secret foreign 
intelligence operations is unfortunate but 
real. Effectiveness in such operations al
most always depends on secrecy, and con
sequently, the people of this country can
not always be made aware of what their 
government is doing. However, much of 
what has leaked out has appalled us when 
stated national interests have conflicted sig
nificantly on moral, ethical, legal*, or prac
tical grounds with real national interests. 
When some of the covert CIA operations 
were exposed, such as those brought to 
light with the publishing of the Pentagon 
Papers, and we learned that the very agen
cy which had been founded and empow
ered for the purpose of protecting us was 
in fact often doing us more harm than 
good, the need for reform of defense poli
cies and practices became evident, and 
steps began to be taken against corrupt 
State Department practices. Leakage then 
was beneficial, for it made us aware of 
what our government was doing without 
our consent.
There is a fine line between those sec
rets which are advantageous to leak to the 
public and those which are not. It remains 
the governments esponsibility to prevent 
vital secrets from escaping into the press. 
President Ford recently called for a joint 
intelligence oversight committee in Con
gress which would oversee United States 
intelligence activities and ostensibly work 
towards the prevention of information 
leaks. In the executive sector, an executive-branch board will regu/ate and direct 
intelligence agencies. It will also impose 
penalties and bring legal action through the 
office of the Attorney-General against em
ployees in that sector who are caught leak1i Dis '3J an en anpa teen thii tanner
> kitchen privileges 
>delta upsilon fraternity 
5031 forbes ave.
icall 687-1825 or 682-8542 
ask for jon or mike
*$50/mo.- single $40/mo.- double 
* hurry- while the supply lasts
Schorr (right) with his lawyer
ing government information. Under Fords 
proposal, the guilt will rest solely on the 
perpetrator of the leak; recipients of illicit 
material cannot be charged, although they 
can be forced, as Schorr is being, into testi
fying against their donors.
Clearly, Daniel Schorr and the Village 
Voice were both recipients of information 
passed on from a higher source. As princi
pals in the current House Inquiry, they rep
resent, in essence, the free press. Most of 
the information about the CIA printed in 
the February 16 issue of the Village Voice 
had already been made public; little was 
new. Of the so-called new information, 
none could be said to be really damaging to 
United States security. Nevertheless, the 
printing of the report violated an act of 
Congress. The question which must be de
cided is whether or not a congressional or
der takes precedence over the first amend
ment.
It is unfortuante that so much of what
we know and learn about our government 
is gotten through unscrupulous means. 
While it is true that the American system 
allows for more criticism of itself from 
both within the government and without 
th an any other, it is also true that the fear 
of such criticism or the exaggerated fear of 
the effect of the publics learning the truth 
keeps a good deal hidden that need not be. 
The Watergate cover-up was symptomatic 
of this type of fear. Nixon looked worse 
when the truth leaked out; if he had con
fessed in the beginning, he might still be 
President. Likewise, leaks to the press with 
shock titles like the Voices The Report 
on the CIA that President Ford doesnt 
Want You to Read make oui government 
look worse to us and to outsiders than it 
might otherwise appear. If journalists such 
as Schorr are being forced to accept re
sponsibility for actions that bear semblance 
of illegality in them, it is time the Ameri
can government was forced to do the same.
THISTLE
76FINAL PAYMENTS ARE 
NOW BEING ACCEPTED |
All money must be in by 
April 22nd.
'uH? nW?nHP IuLuam? O(  
"CMU THISTLE
IuL'?SO PW(pmw a? 
'uw? uO PHEa( ESf( 
w?PHV
NO LATE PAYMENTS AC- V 
CEPTED.
NO DOWNPAYMENTS 
RETURNED.

---------------------------------------------------

OW? OuoOuSFurg3y dU NRKd$Is5i NR
u w3s5the3e hM n'p Wl.st3b3ie
y Lisa Zeidner
President Cyert has openly stated that 
e doesnt have much hope for improving 
ur School of Humanities. CMUs reputaion is for training competent professionls in fields like architecture, business adnistration, and engineering. Since we 
nt compete with other schools for excelence in the humanities, its a bad investent to try. I find this attitude disappointng andfar worsedishonest. Were no 
onger Carnegie Tech; we claim to be a Uni 
ersity with a diverse range of offerings, 
nfortunately, our present humanities reain service departments. Its studentsand 
metimes its facultylack the expertise 
nd commitment of professionals, and for 
good reason: I dont think we have formlated a clear understanding of what the 
umanities are, of what a competent 
umanistic thinker does. It is because we 
ack this understanding that the humanities 
ere remain unprofessional and lackluster.
Suspicion of the humanities is nothing 
ew. Doctors or metallurgists have a trade, 
skill, a quantifiable set of formulae and 
ools. They know how to remove tonsils or 
dentify a chemical. But what does the hisorian or literary critic do, exactly? After 
all, we are not an age that respects Renais
sance men. We buy millions of how-to 
books, but were careful to note that our 
gardening or psychologizing are hobbies, 
not careers. The humanities too appear to 
us as hobbies. We see these scholars as 
counting angels on pinheads as one would 
count passing cars on a long journey. Any
one can read a novel; what does the English 
teacher tell us about this document that we
cant feel out for ourselves?
The misconception is precisely this idea 
that unscientific things are based on feel
ing. An architect can know that a poorly 
constructed building will fall down; but the 
professor disdainful of Rod McKuen is 
only rationalizing his emotions, construct
ing fact from fancy. One simply likes 
Freud, or believes in abortion: whats there 
to argue about? After all, such things are 
based on taste, and if the teacher doesnt 
like your poem, he cant prove that its 
bad.
There are differences of opinion in his
tory and literature, just as there are in any 
discipline. Even doctors, our paradigms of 
scientific objectivity, dont always agree if 
an organs got to go. But uncertainty doesnot excuse the humanities student from 
rigorous, systematic thought, from disci
pline. CMU humanities students display a 
pervasive lack of interest in defining, ques
tioning, and defending ideas. Notions in 
classes spontaneously generate, like small 
talk at a party, and are given no further ex
ploration or justification.
I dont think we stress the tools of seri
ous analytic thought necessary to the hu
manities. We all know about the wide
spread decline of even simple literacy in 
universities. Because we lack these tools, 
the humanities seem like a big, heavy sea 
on which we need merely float: a little 
proud, of course, for reading Ulysses or 
studying Chinese history and not sinking, 
but still... floating.
The humanities faculty, who should be 
the first to bemoan this lack of commit
ment, actually encourages it. Big efforts are 
made to draw people out in class discus
to erit1 a summer of study 3t unusually pleasant surroundings choosing 
from a wide variety of courses taught by distinguished Stanford faculty and 
visiting professors. Courses offered include:
Y ?t,3ght.itbsy f3iy1 xihyh5D st1 mst1$pei Iystt3t5 3t nsy3Mhgt3s a 
nlyblgsy Iylgsy3e. Y ase3C wgsk3t5U Is3tb3t5U Ig3tb.s73t5U I6hbh5gsr6D 
W IeDC6hyh5D hM msk Y 'see 'i13s Eteb3blbi Y uightslb3Ce st1 
uebghtslb3Ce Y nh.rlbig$xitigsbi1 'le3C MM3 u.ig3Cst Pbl13ie Y 
f3y. uieb6ib3Ce W 2h.it 3t u.ig3Cst PhC3ibD Y st1 .stD hb6igeV
If you arc an undergraduate or graduate student at another college or 
university, a graduate of a recognized college or university, or a person aged 
twenty-five or over, then youre eligible to enroll in the
POuSf(ow Pp''?o cEPEO(o Io(xou' NRKd
unc 21 to August 14
Write or call for more information:Stanford Summer Visitor Program 
Building I, Room 2A 
Stanford, California 94305 
(415) 497-3109
sions, to make them talk, but talkings not 
enough-statements arent challenged or 
dealt with. Everyone can think, were 
soothed. Reading and written work are 
light, and assignments are calculated to be 
creative and flexiblee.g., we need no 
longer be intimidated by the standards of 
coherent and persuasive thought.
Disdain for easy-A humanities courses 
is justified. Courses are often designed to 
be fun and attractive rather than enlighten
ing. Students are drawn into courses like 
film not because theyre important (which 
they are), but because theyre time-out and
 amusing. Students admit to hoping to 
breeze through a Medieval Semester by 
dressing up as monks and eating mutton. 
Its never very hard to breeze by. Class dis
cussions drown in facileness, which is taken 
to be a sign of sophistication; half-baked 
notions are tossed around like beach balls.
That the new English Writing Lab gets' 
little business is no surprise. Nobody wor
ries about bad writing because nobody is 
asked to worry. Were still graded on our 
ideas, not our expression of them. The 
travesty of this is that ideas are their ex
pression: theyre good only insofar as they 
are convincing, interesting, etc. Coherent 
writing is not just a trivial but necessary 
skill, like typing or balancing checkbooks. 
Our thinking cannot be much more than 
muddled or commonplace if we dont have 
to struggle with it.
CMUs current emphasis on the careeroriented aspects of the humanitiesad
ding a Social Sciences Department, for in
stanceis fruitless. Trying to make the hu
manities a discipline by making them tech
nical misses the point. We have a psycholo
gy department with virtually no offerings 
in the theory or development of psycholog
ical inquiry; a philosophy department lim
ited to offering the few required courses 
for English and Art majors. Where will all 
the measuring, the quantifying get us with
out the foundation of solid and original 
thought? What, exactly, are our psycholo
gy students measuring, if theyre not asked 
to consider what they need to know? The 
technical emphasis is shallow and limiting. 
Were afraid of the uncertain, the debatable 
because we dont know how to debate. We 
have forgotten how to defend ideas with 
words rather than numbers.
This disregard for careful, in-depth 
thinking is particularly devastating for cre
ative writing majors, or at least for those 
who care about literature and writing. Writ
ing workshops count towards the required 
studio course in the humanities core. 
Real studio classes are hard to get intothe 
Art Department wants painters, not doodlers-so many people try their hand at 
poetry or fiction, giggling and halfhearted. 
Even serious writers, infected by CMUs 
obsession with The Professional, are more 
interested in publishing than in spending 
the time to do good work. The concern is 
with presenting the image of a writer, not 
with doing the work of one.
Dr. Cyert is right: we dont have a com
petitive excellence in the humanities. With 
any commitment, however, the situation 
could be improved. First of all, humanities 
studentsespecially Creative Writing ma
jorsshould be selected for admission by 
portfolios. CMU applications dont even re
quire essays anymore; how is the promising 
writer chosen? Second, more emphasis 
should be put on basic courses like compo
sition and philosophical argument. Last 
year, 185 students applied for 12 places in 
a Yale University course in exposition. 
They were made to see they needed this 
course; we arent. Third, and most import
ant, humanities teachers must stop enter
taining and start demanding serious work 
from students. Classes should be structured 
to be rigorous as well as provocative.
Without such discipline, we can never 
hope to get professionalism from the 
School of Humanities. Such scholarship is 
essential if we are to examine the churning 
out of technocratsthe stress on action 
rather than reflectionthat haunts a much 
larger area than CMUs campus. A lack of 
commitment to scholarship amounts, final
ly, to a lack of faith in innovative, influen
tial thought. I dont see how CMU can af
ford not to invest in this commitment.
Gel away for the weekend
plus 10* 
per mile
Monte Carlo or similar car
Ssb3htsye yhk kii7it1 gsbi .s7ie 3b iseD bh 1g3,i 6h.iU 
bh b6i e73 C6syibU hg k6igi,igV Sht$13eChltbsvyi gsbi s,s3y4
svyi fg31sD thht bh 'ht1sD thhtV Lhl rsD Mhg b6i 5se Dhl 
leiU st1 giblgt Csg bh gitb3t5 yhCsb3htV nsyy Mhg gieig,s4tions bh1sDT
JdN fhgvie u,iV (s7yst1 dX$NJJJ 
00 xgstb Pbgiib dN$00
xgisbig I3bbevlg56 u3grhgb d$qN
We ts,Sgbs rp C,bu.
*Rate subject to change without notice.
National Car Rental

---------------------------------------------------

The Illuminated Declaration of Independence
Written by THOMAS JEFFERSON 
Penned by SHERMAN E. NOTESTINE in 1905 
36 pages in full color, plus black-and-white illus
trations 
paper $5.95
thirty-five P|as of original lettering styles, bor
ders, and m^mkMUon
In adat+ien %p Notes tine's designs  faithful
ly ror<MlN|JNf* |n five colors (including gold) 
the votamecervtains an Introduction by noted 
historian HeOry S<eaie Commager and a variety 
Qf photograiMK stxl reproductions, such as Jeffer
sons origin at manuscript of the Declaration, Paul 
Revered nifraaiiiBi. portraits of the signers and 
lllustratlanfc by Howard Pyle and Maxfield Parr,sh *
fN BAKER HALL
msbst3s.3s ,enynP 
innaam *! iw
;s33hess3l
st3y bl 13sssb33t3smMMWL* * L*hti
W?P
_
ow to grow herbs from cuttings or seed, under 
lights or in a window. Step by step photographs; 
ways to dry and store herbs. 6 V*" x 11. 96 
pages. 171 photographs, 20 color plates. Index. 
Suppliers list. 1974 
*4.95
NATIONAL LAMPOON ART POSTER BOOK
The NATIONAL LAMPOON ART POSTER 
BOOK is the most elegant Lampoon product aver 
produced. Twenty-six (11 x 16) original mas
terpieces of art, including Van Gogh with Bana
na, The Mona Gorilla, The Floor of the Sistine Chapel, and 23 more. . . all printed in full 
color on fine, heavy paper. All twenty-six posters 
are easy to remove and suitable for framing. 
$5.95 ___________________________
KH!
uMbig 1li 1iy3vigsb3ht b6i
CMU BOOKSTORE
stthltCie hlg M3geb sttlsy
T-SHIRT 
GIVEAWAY
hti kii7 htyD sb b6i vhh7ebhgi 
ki sgi yhs13t5 b6i C6st5i 
.sC63tie k3b6 eriC3syyD .sg7ib 
ritt3ieV EM Dhl giC3i,i hti 
k3b6 Dhlg C6st5iU ki k3yy 53,i 
Dhl
A FREE T-SHIRT
O6iei O$P63gbe 6s,i viit rg3tb 
ieriC3syyD Mhg b6i i,itb st1 sgi 
b6i M3geb 3t b6i ahh7ebhgiGe 
O$P63gb nhyyiCbhgGe Pig3ie
T-SHIRT
GIVEAWAY
And less on a special selection of childrens books.
xgisb s113b3hte bh s C63y1Ge y3vgsgD hM ost1h. Whlei 
C63y1gitGe vhh7eV PiyiCb Mgh.T whCbhg PileeU asvsgU O6i ?yiCbg3C 
nh.rstDU Ihr$preU erhgbe vhh7eU uyMgi1 W3bC6ChC7 .DebigD eig3ie 
s.ht5 hb6igeV ost1h. Whlei Cysee3M3ie b6iei se G6lgbG vhh7eU 
vlb .heb sgi 3t rigMiCb Cht13b3htU 3t MsCb .heb sgi Zleb ltehy1 
vhh7ebhgi giblgteV O6iei sgi Mlt vhh7e stD C63y1 k3yy itZhDV
emu bookstore*
IN BAKER HALL
EXTRAORDINARY TENNIS FOR THE ORDI
NARY PLAYER. By Dr. Simon Ramo. A noted 
scientist shows how to play amateur tennis to 
win, without prolonged practice or excessive 
training. 5Vz x 8V. Illustrated. 192 pages. 
LJ 1970 
$1.50
The Offical Scrabble Players Handbook
Created by SCRABBLE CROSSWORD GAME 
PLAYERS, INC.
134 photographs and diagrams 
$4.95
THE INDOOR LIGHT GARDENING BOOK
$5.95
A new paperback edition of a complete, up-todate, and practical guide to indoor gardening that 
shows how anyone can enjoy flowers all year 
round. It tells which flowers grow well under 
lights, how to grow them, what equipment is 
needed, and where to buy it. All aspects of culti
vation related to indoor light are treated. There 
are extensive descriptions of suitable plants and 
what can be expected of each. Clear "how-to" 
photographs, line drawings, charts, and graphs 
reinforce the text and show how simple and en
joyable indoor gardening can be.
O63e 53,isksD k3yy yseb Mgh. 
uIoEm d bh uIoEm Nq
FUN WITH TERRARIUM GARDENING. By
Virginie and George A. Elbert. Clear instructions 
and step-by-step photographs for all types of 
terrariums for the home. 6Vi" x 11. 96 pages. 
Bibliography. Index. Crowns Arts and Crafts 
Series. 1973 
$3.50
BEGINNING BACKGAMMON A New and Plea
surable Method Of Learning By Playing Against 
The Master
229 diagrams 
$4.00
Beginning Backgammon puts it all togetherthe 
basic principles, strategies, and lots of sound ad
vice, Including 229 explanatory diagrams, rules of 
play and a glossary of terms.
Tim Holland is widely hailed as the world's 
leading player of backgammon. He has won more 
major tournaments and holds more major titles 
than any other backgammon player.
Mi 
I 
emu
American 'rtist
groarte***
bookstore
CREATING MODERN FURNITURE Trends, 
Techniques, Appreciation
by DONA Z. and MELVIN MEILACH 
580 photographs, 20 color plates 
$5.95
Dona and Melvin Meilach do not limit them
selves to simple functional pieces; they have re
searched furniture making from its sculptural 
forms in Greece and Egypt through to presentday machine-engineered furniture.
They separate furniture according to mater
ials: furniture made from logs, furniture from 
found materials, fiber furniture, rubber tube 
furniture, fiberglass and molded plastic furniture, 
bent chrome, and even chairs made from paper 
and cardboard. They discuss unusual styles in 
furniture, including the modern fantasy trend 
and the use of cubes and other free forms. Draw
ing from the Greek, Egyptian, African, Haitian, 
and Oriental, the book is a fascinating study of 
all types of furniture making and how to do it 
in step-by-step photographs.
The Complete Adventures and Memoirs of Sher
lock Holmes
187 illustrations 
$3.95
Here is Sherlock Holmes In a facsimile of his 
original setting: the pages of The Strand maga
zine. All the original illustrations by Sidney 
Paget, with their clairvoyant resemblance to Basil 
Rathbone an Nigel Bruce, are here too. A Sherlockians delight and a great value.
FUN WITH GROWING HERBS INDOORS.
This is the one and only official Scrabble 
Crossword Game reference source, published in 
conjuction with Scrabble Players, Inc. Previously 
available only to members of Scrabble Players, 
this handbook is written for all levels of players 
from the beginner right up to the expert.
The Offical Scrabble Players Handbook will 
help you improve your game by showing you the 
best tactics to use for high scoring plays; how to 
use the blanks; what to do with a poor rack; how 
to use the high-valued tiles effectively; defensive 
techniques; passing; bluffing; and much more.
TM MATtOWAl. LMWOOW t44ti
heat irar*<ar* *& a <***0M4 'KiJ**--* Natkwu:ra t*~ ** **coMacriLir m cHiWy &#* cow.Anwi nn* aas: Maff jrw wt t*e t*e faradMm G<xia. * ***** * *$*<* <* <*** o<m*t i*<xH.a ******' * li*-

---------------------------------------------------

OW? OuoOuSFurg3y dUNRKd$Is5i N
HOCKEY SEASON PLAGUED BY INJURIES
The CMU Hockey Club started out the 
|75-76 season with high expectations. At 
end of last seasons league play, Pitt an[unced their withdrawal from the 
>IHA. Since Pitt was the Tartans only 
hjor competition in the league, CMU 
|ose to drop out also and seek stronger 
ipetition to fill out their schedule. 
They did not expect their record to rival 
it of 1974-75 (18-3-0), but they did ex|ct to do better than their 4 and 12 recthis year. The Tartan icers were 
jgued by more injuries this year than 
ey had in the last three years combined, 
^ing mafcy key players for a number of 
les and forcing many skaters to play in 
Ifamiliar positions. Most notable of these 
fcasions was when Tartan wing Matt 
Dldsmith donned the goalie pads and 
led the nets in the January 25 Gannon 
ie because both CMU goalies had been 
ljured and had to be carried from the ice 
rlier in the game.
The club will lose five regular skaters 
m3e year. These include both co-captains, 
lake Gallaway and Larry Stuever, who 
Lve contributed a great deal. Mike has 
ben a mainstay for the Tartans for the last 
Ur years, teaming up with Mike Ken
zo rthy for many of the spectacular plays 
hat carried the Tartans for three strong 
basons. Larry has been the backbone of 
ie clubs defense for the last two years 
id has been a great help to each Tartan 
joinder. Frank Sciulli will be another
I6hbh vD 'sgD HV xghlri 
Larry Stuever-Tartan Hockey's Most Valuable Player and Leading Scorer
big loss; he has played some great games in 
the Tartan nets. Frank performed unusual
ly well in the two victories over Penn State 
(main campus) last year and was named 
MVP of last years Rotary Tournament 
when the Tartans captured the trophy with 
a 3-1 victory over Penn State.
Matt Goldsmith and Dave Cornelius 
have been great assets on the Tartan of
fense; both were among the leading scorers 
for the past couple of years. Other depart
ing team members that have helped to back
'syhtiD oiCgl3be Ohr a$asyy IysDig
^ Bob Firm
When Coach Dave Maloney said that he 
loped to improve Carnegie-Mellons basletball team with good recruiting, he 
psnt kidding. He recently announced 
iiat he has landed one of the Easts top 
|rospects in junior college All-Arrterican 
andidate George Harvey.
Harvey, a Pittsburgh native, was actively 
sught by several major colleges following 
/o outstanding seasons at Allegheny 
Jommunity College. He joins Gene Turner, 
ennis Derringer, and Larry DiCicco as 
ICC stars that have enrolled at CMU in repnt years.
Maloney commented, George is withit a doubt a major college player and the 
ontributions he will make to our program 
innumerable.
Harvey possesses the natural skills of 
remep.dous quickness and leaping ability 
make him a dynamic performer. He
lead his team in scoring with 20.2 points 
per game and seven assists per game from 
his guard position this season.
Harvey ranks high in ACC career statis
tics in several categories. He is second in 
career points with 808 and career assists 
with 318. He is the Cougars third all-time 
field goal leader with 343 and third in free 
throws with 122.
Harvey raked in several post-season 
honors this year. At the NCJAA play-offs 
early in March, he was the leading vote 
getter on the Region 20 All-Star team and 
the MVP in the All-Star game. He was also 
selected Junior College Player of the Year 
by the Pittsburgh Basketball Writers Asso
ciation.
Previous honors included being an AllCity selection while at Peabody High 
School and making the All-Service team 
while a sergeant in the Air Force with a 
remarkable 45 point per game average.
TAJ MAHAL RESTAURANT AND LOUNGEmama nlairton Blvd. (Route ma South)
Pit sburgh, Pa. 15236The only Indian Restaurant in town
Vegetarian and non-vegetarian dishes available
Buffet - Tuesday and Thursday 
5.50 per person all you can eat
SPECIAL - Friday April 9 
Buffet with Live Entertainment
All you cun eal
6.50 per person
TAKE OUT AND CATERING AVAILABLE
For Reservations Call 881-9500 
10: discount on yourfood with this ad
up the Tartan regulars include: Greg Bouse, 
Gene Bryton, and Dave Groupe. Murray 
Leety could have been a great asset except 
that he spent most of his time in a cast. He 
definitely would have been a leading scor
er.
Tom Grimm and Jeff Jacobs are expect
ed to return next year; they should help fill 
out the gaps along with Tartan regulars 
Jack Arturo, Mark Jonnatti, Bill Miller, Jim 
Morse, Bill Thompson, and Skip Wallace. 
Steve Fuchs hopes to move up to a regular
defensive shift. The icers also have some 
promising freshmen in Don Jacobson, Rick 
Smith, and Jeff Reh.
If the Tartans get their usual allotment 
of new players and can avoid major injur
ies, they should field a strong team next 
year.
The Hockey Club will continue to seek 
higher quality competition but is consider
ing forming a small league next year with 
Duquesne, Indiana (Pa.), St. Vincent, and 
possibly West Virginia.
TARTAN ICERS AWARDS 
1975-1976 SEASON
Most Valuable Player Larry Stuever
Best Offensive Player Dave Cornelius
Best Defensive Player Larry Stuever
Leading Scorer Matt Goldsmith
and Larry Stuever (18 points) 
Leading Goal Scorer Larry Stuever (12) 
Second Leading Goal Scorer Mike
Gallaway (11)
Most Promising Freshman Don Jacobson 
Most Improved Player Steve Fuchs
Most Versatile Player Jack Arturo
Best Sportsmanship Mike Gallaway
Most Penalized Bill Miller (37 min.)
Most Injured Murray Leety
Most Memorable Goal Dave Groupe
(3/1/76)
Longest Slump Matt Goldsmith
Best Opposing Team Kent State
9(O OWEP w(2S
IM BOARD MEETING - Tuesday, April
13 at 4:30 in the IM Office)
IM TRACK MEET  Track entries are due 
April 13 at 4:30 pm. A list of all track 
events are posted on the IM Bulletin 
Board. Students can run as a team or take 
part in each individual event. Date of the 
IM track meet will be announced at a later 
date.
SOFTBALL  Check IM Bulletin Board 
for standings. Commissioner is Paul Landis 
422-9674.
SN WINS IM SQUASH - Last week a 
strong SN squash team defeated Theta Xi 
to take the 1976 Intramural Squash Cham
pionship. The interesting highlight of this 
final match was that Sigma Nus number 
one player learned to play squash just 
three weeks before the championship 
game.
KS WINS IM CALL POOL - KS A 
team played KS B team in the finals. 
The A team won by a margin of 46 balls. 
The winning team consisted of Bob Komarnicki, Sandy Richards, and Allen Brown. 
KS B team was Jerry Pierone, Bob Tirk, 
and Mike Zidanic.
SAVE-A-LIFE SWIM  Students, faculty 
and staff of CMU it is not too late to par
ticipate in the 1976 Save-a-Life Swim 
for the benefit of the American Cancer 
Society. Anyone interested should contact 
Mr. Earl J. Birdy at Ext. 8761 or Ms. Don
na Maiello at Ext. 415 for further informa
tion and to turn in your sponsor sheets.
IM FENCING  On March 16th the Mens 
and Womens Foil Competition was held. 
The results were:
WOMENS FOIL
1st - Carey
2nd  Gretchen Horn
3rd  Tie between Gail Crosbie and Louise 
Schwartz
MENS FOIL 
1st  Franklin Duck 
2nd  Gordon Morrison 
3rd  Mark Nielsen
IM THREE WEAPON - Fencing Competi
tion in Sabre, Epee and foil was held re
cently. The winners were:
1st  Gordon Morrison 
2nd - Brian Pierson 
3rd - Chris Lata
Oi.ryiGe ODyig PC6hhy hM ugb st1 nhyyi5i hM 
m3vigsy ugbe hMMig st sCs1i.3C Disg hg ei.iebig 
hM ebl1D sb b6i c3yys nsrght3U b6i pt3,ige3bDGe 
oh.i ns.rle Pbl1D st1 y3,i 3t b6i 6isgb hM 
oh.iU s e6hgb ksy7 Mgh. b6i Prst3e6 Pbire c3e3b 
fyhgitCiU I3es st1 hb6ig Ebsy3st Clyblgsy Citbige 
flyy Cgi13b Chlgeie sgi bsl56b vD 13eb3t5l3e6i1 
?lghrist st1 u.ig3Cst MsClybD 
ODyig PC6hhy hM ugb
Is3tb3t5  wgsk3t5  Iltb.s73t5 
PClyrblgi<ugb W3ebhgD 
College of Liberal Arts
utb6ghrhyh5D< ?lghrist m3bigsblgi 
ai53tt3t5 b6ghl56 s1,stCi1 Ebsy3st 
Ebsy3st m3bigsblgi st1 nlyblgi  nysee3Csy 
st1 'h1igt W3ebhgD  pgvst Pbl13ie 
Et1irit1itb Pbl13ie 
Contact Gillian Pesche,
Office of International Services 
Temple University, Philadelphia, Pa. 19122 
<215) 787 7229
TEMPLE UNIVERSITY
u nh..htkisyb6 pt3,ige3bD

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22-THE TARTANApril 6,1976
bS. ^DRMVPr r) nA-WATAT 3UT
Pika, Beta and PKT Top Buggy Picks
by The Compubookie
note: The Compubookie is a little green 
gnome who lives under Panther Hollow 
Bridge and who comes out once a year to 
make comments and predictions on the 
buggy races.
Hi there buggy nurds! Once again, I 
am here to offer you my pragmatic prog
nostications, dealt upon you with the ut
most objectivity. First, lei me say that I 
had a tough time picking this years prob
able order of finish, because this is going 
to be the closest sweepstakes in a long 
time. It wouldnt surprise me to see only 6 
or 7 seconds separating number 1 from 
number 6. Also, 2 or 3 organizations 
should pass last years 2:19.3 record, and 
the winning time will be in the vicinity 
of 2:16.
1. Phi Kappa Theta Not in their wildest 
Fanty did Phi Kap dream of last years dis
aster. However, they should emerge from 
the Shadows this year and streak to a spot 
in the top 6. Despite a weak push team -- 
Niwara near as good as past teams -- a vast
ly improved freeroll should net them a 
sub-2:25 time.
2. Sigma Nu A thousand apologies to the 
Zoo for picking them to finish fifth last 
year. They proved that 1974s amazing 
roll was no fluke. Sigma Nu is the mystery v 
entry this year. They have always been the 
only organization that wouldnt go all out 
before race day, but this year they look 
downright disorganized, showing up at one 
freeroll with no brakes, and at anothejr 
with no people. Their already-hurting push 
team is suffering even further from the loss 
of Zankowski and Butcher. The heat will 
be on Dave Thomas, wholl have a lot of 
work to do this week in order to get his 
old buddies ready for raceday. (I think 
theyll finish in the top 6 but I dont know 
where.)
3. Alpha Tau Omega Possessed of the fast
est push team in the school, ATO is in des
perate need of a good roll. If their tires 
stay intact through the chute and the turn,
FREE ROOM AND BOARD
Et i-C6st5i Mhg 731 e3bb3t5 
st1 .3thg 73bC6it 6iyrV
Lhlg hkt r,bV s8C ysg5i srbV 
Myi-3vyi 6hlgeV Lhlt5 3t4
bigieb3t5 Ms.3yDV
SQUIRREL HILL422-9607
='
UNIVERSITY 
COPY 
SERVICE
HIGHEST QUALITY XEROX COPIES 
(All work unconditionally guaranteed) 
LOWEST PRICES 
Single copies per original - 5< 
Multiple copies per original:
1st copy 
2nd50th copies 
51st
4
3e
2
NO EXTRA CHARGE FOR:
collating  3-hole punched 
colored paper  legal sue
Low cost bookbinding 
Quality offset printing 
209 N. Craig St. 681 5411
BUGGY PREDICTIONS CONT
The C.I.A. "Streetcar" coming into the turn.I6hbh vD Oh. 9heir6
this should be their year to crack the top 3. 
Their freeroll times have been impressive, 
and the push team is stronger than ever. 
The 1976 dark horse, it wouldnt surprise 
me to see ATO win it all.
4. Beta Theta Pi Last year, Beta tried 
blowing it up and they blew it. Their push 
team is second only to ATOs, but not even 
a strong flick of the Bic helped their disas
trous roll last spring. Are pneumatics the 
answer? What was the question? Will the
'government let the SST land in the United 
States? Can Schulman get them psyched 
for buggy the way he did for football? Bar
ring any cars on the course, or flat tires, 
the Big Red rates as another strong con
tender.
5. Pi Kappa Alpha The third fastest push 
team and the second fastest roll combined 
to give Pika a first place trophy (of their 
very own) and a new record last year. Can 
they do it again? I think so. The pushers 
and the roll will be as good as, or better,
than 75s, and the extra year of sleep will 
be invaluable to the drivers. But who
knows? Even the Compubookie is wrong __
sometimes (on rare occasions). See you 
Friday.
The Compubookie predicts:
1. Pi Kappa Alpha
2. Alpha Tau Omega
3. Beta Theta Pi
4. Phi Kappa Theta
5. Beta B
6. Pika B
Sigma Nu will be in there somewhere. 
BUGGY PREDICTIONS ~|
Joan Both well 
Sweepstakes Chairman
1.PKA A
2. PKT A
3. BTP A
4. SN A
5. ATO A
6. BTP B
Jim Belawski 
Safety Chairman
1.PKA A
2. ATO A
3. PKT A
4. BTP A
5.SN A
6. PKA B
Bill Fox
Design Chairman
1. PKT A
2. BTP A
3. PKA A*
4. ATO A
5. PKT B
6. PKA B
Chip Yeager 
Buggy Book Editor
1. PKT A
2. PKA A
3. BTP A
4. SN A
0V ATO A
6. BTP - B
Sue Murtha 
Publicity Chairman
1.PKA A
2. PKT A
3. BTP A
4. ATO u
0V SN u
6. BTP B
Buggy Chairmen
1.PKA A
2.BTP A
3. PKT A
4. ATO A
0V SN A
6. BTP , B
txtra curricular activity.
From one beer lover to another.
THE STROH BREWERY COMPANY, DETROIT, MICHIGAN 4122

---------------------------------------------------

i -HAYflAT ifitOW? OuoOuSFApril 6, 1976-Page 23
ViEN TAKE OPENERl Bugg Comments
by Elly Zimmerman
CMUs mens tennis team defeated John 
Carroll in their opening PAC Conference 
match on Saturday, 6-3.
Roger Cambor and Paul Gehman had 
the strongest showing by winning both 
their singles and doubles.
Peggy Russell, the Head Tennis Coach, 
coached the team to a second place finish 
in the PACs last year. We hope to be 
very strong in the conference again this 
year. We have more depth in our line up 
than in the past but its a young team,  
Russel commented. The team lost two 
seniors last year, Val Kurjakovic (first 
singles) and Steve Hoysan (fifth singles) 
but they gained two excellent Freshmen, 
Dave Chandler and Marc Silver. Roger* 
Cambor, a senior starter, hasnt played for 
the team since freshman year and is anoth
er strong asset.
The results of the John Carroll match 
are below:
MENS SINGLES 
position
(1) Chuck Carroll (CMU) vs. Dan Klein(JC) 
4-6,7-6,3-6
(2) Gary Kemeny (CMU) vs Greg Taptich 
7-5, 6-4
(3)Marc Silver (CMU vs Bruce Brownridge
4-6, 4-6
(4) Roger Cambor(CMU) vs Mat Pentz (JC) 
3-6, 6-1, 7-6
(5)Paul Gehman (CMU) vs Joe McKear(JC) 
6-2, 6-2
(6)Larry Riddle(CMU) vs Tom Stepanek
2-6,64,6-1
MENS DOUBLES 
Carroll-Silver(CMU vs Taptich-Stepanek
7-5,6-4
Cambor-Gehman(CMU) vs BrownridgeMckeon, 2-6, 6-3, 6-4 
Kemeny-Candler vs Klein-Steinman
3-6,6-7
CMUs next home game will be on Wed
nesday at 2:30 against Washington and 
Jefferson.
Carnegie-Mellon fencers in intramural competition.I6hbh vD ?yy3hb Ihrhk3bA
Fencers Place Fourth
by Gordon Morrison
The Carnegie-Mellon University wo
mens varsity fencing team took fourth 
place in the Pennsylvania State Womens 
Collegiate Team and Individual Fencing 
Championship on Friday March 19 at 
Temple University in Philadelphia. Pennsyl
vania State University (main campus) 
finished first. The second place through 
fifth place teams were very evenly 
matched. CMU tied their team match with 
the second, third, and fifth place team at
2-2. The match with the University of 
Pennsylvania ended in a tie, even after 
using a tie-breaking formula. Penn finished 
in second place. Temple University beat 
CMU by the use of the tie-breaking formu
la and consequently finished third. Indiana 
University of Pennsylvania lost to CMU by
the use of the tie-breaking formula and 
finished fifth. The tie-breaking formula 
used is the difference between touches 
scored and touches received. The team 
with the largest number wins the match.
CMU was invited to a tournament next 
year at the main campus of Penn State due 
to the high caliber of fencing exhibited 
this year. Miriam Whitworth finished fifth 
out of all the A fencers. An A fencer is the 
number one fencer on each team, with B 
being the second best and so on. Jenny Wil
lis finished second among the fencers. Joan 
Gravitz finished tied for fifth among the C 
fencers, while Rise Reinecker finished third 
among the D fencers. Since Jenny lost only 
once in the team competition, she was invi
ted to fence in the individual part of the 
tournament. She finished eighth in the 
individuals.
by L.S.D.C.
The last freeroll practice has been run, 
and race day 1976 is only three days away. 
Everyone is ready for that once a year two 
and a half minute event into which so 
much preparation goes. Friday and Satur
day will tell who has best prepared for the 
contest. The weather this spring has been 
exceptional, and only one freeroll practice 
has been rained out, and that one was 
made up with an extra freeroll last Satur
day morning. The freerolls of the last two 
weekends have seen numerous accidents, 
although there have been no serious injur
ies. DUs infamous Captain America sent 
its driver to the hospital for six stitches, 
and DU has finally (and wisely) decided to
retire it from service. Also involved in ac
cidents were CIA, BTP, and SAE.
PKA seems to be the hands-down fav
orite to defend their record-breaking time 
of last year. They have had very impressive 
freeroll times so far, and the rest just de
pends on what their push team can do. Af
ter PKA, peoples opinions seem to differ 
widely, and the results of the races will de
pends greatly on the performances of the 
push teams.
So the stage has been set for the 1976 
edition of a 56-year-old CMU tradition. 
With the paving of the freeroll side of the 
course, it is quite probable that the course 
record of 2:19.3 will be broken again. Let 
us hope for a good and safe race this year.LIFE-SAVING CLASS
Through the combined efforts of the 
CMU Athletic Department and the Physi
cal Education Department a special course 
in Closed Chest Cardiopulmonary Resus
citation will be offered to students, faculty 
and staff members here on campus. The 
special class will be conducted Wednesday, 
April 14  Friday, April 16, and Monday, 
April 19 at 10:30 am to 11:30 am in the 
Pool in the Gym building here on campus. 
Persons attending all three sessions and 
passing all requirements of the course will
be certified to administer mouth to mouth 
resuscitation and Cardiopulmonary Resus
citation. The course will be taught by 
American Red Cross C.P.R. Instructor Mr. 
Earl Birdy of the CMU Physical Education 
Department. There will be no charge for 
this informative course and students, facul
ty and staff members are urged to attend. 
Please contact Mr. Birdy  ext. 8761 to 
register for the course or any further infor
mation pertaining to this important life 
saving course.
f3t7iy Pkiire ugC6igD
Archery intramurals were held Wednes
day, March 31. Jim Finkel won the mens 
event with a score of 210 out of a possible 
216 points. Finkel, a senior, competed in 
1972,73,75, and 76 and won each year by 
shooting straight bullseyes. He used to 
shoot outdoor field events but is now con
centrating on indoors. He uses a 37 lb. 
Wing Presentation II bow with one sight. 
Finkel started shooting in 1968, and in 
1970 he took lessons from the Olympic 
coach.
Kieran Kline placed second in the mens 
event with a 204, followed by Tom Krouse 
with 199.
FACULTY & STAFF TENNIS LEAGUE
Any member of the faculty or staff interes
ted in playing in a Tennis League should 
contact Dave Maloney, Athletic Depart
ment, Ext. 8759 or send name, department 
and extension to the Department of Intra
mural Athletics, Room 104, Gym no later 
than Friday, April 9. The League will be 
divided into a major division (more exper
ienced players) and a minor division. 
Matches will be played on th CMU tennis 
course between 11:30 am and 1:30 pm 
Monday through Friday.
In the womens event, Mary Woehnel 
and Gwen Reese finished first and second 
respectively, with the scores 184 and 180.
In team competition, Mike Miller and 
Tony Krouse shot a 420 out of a possible 
432 to place first. Kieran Kline and Bob 
LaGatta placed second with a 370. Mary 
Woehnel and Pete Hoysan finished third 
with a 340.
Sixteen people participated in the in
dividual events and fourteen entered the 
team events.
FACULTY & STAFF GOLF TOURN.
Date: April 23,1976
Time: 1:00 pm
Place: Suncrest Golf Club
Route 8 on the way to Butler 
Prizes: Low medalist
Callaway System winner 
Longest drive 
Closest to pin on Par 3 
Straightest drive 
Any member of the faculty and staff inter
ested in playing in this tournament should 
contact Dave Maloney, Athletic Depart
ment, Ext. 8759. The cost is $5.00. Locker 
and shower facilities are available for an 
additional $1.25. Restaurant facilities on 
the premises.
a fun obsummer working with me at
6IIIIIS
Etbig,3ik3t5 
sb b6i Isg7 (MM3Ci 
'htV b6gl fg3V 
qTq bh d I' 
Psblg1sDe 
R u' bh  I'
"The coaster capital of the world
2ieb '3MMy3t IsVU N0N
Sh urry3Csb3hte 
vD .s3y hg 
r6hti
fgii n6g3eb3st PC3itCi miCblgi
AGELESS
YOUTH
vD ws,31 nV wg3,ig nVPVaV 
hM PisbbyiU 2se63t5bht
Tuesday, April 13 
8:15 P.M.
Soldiers & Sailors 
Memorial Hall, Oakland
sponsored by First Church of 
Christ,Scientist, Pittsburgh 
Sh s1.3ee3ht C6sg5i 
Sh ChyyiCb3hte 
uyy sgi kiyCh.iV

---------------------------------------------------

nS nS nS nS nS
nS nS nS nS nS nS n' nSnSnSnSnSnSnSnSnSnSnSnc
CT
h>E
8s
J<
IVh
5h
i;
I
CT
Q.
.2&
c
1
nv
'Sbh
U<h
P3
t8
CT
<

1

M

I
<3
hereclioddooo 2Ssiiiiii i2555555 5
<n EI IE E E E
 > ?to to  wS2!5-g-3.E_?????? 8i :Q bh  F Mh $ F . QI *| s| t g 8*sSrS 8j5
<h
S-3S ?? ?
k to 
<h<
5 3 5 3 5 C -*V$ ( V!g h Vjg C = Ty3V ^ Em E pV |E ( 50 h X?
nS nS nS nS? s s ?. -3S-3S-3-3S
O f-0 >$w 5>$ >$w > nn:n:ZnhnZ
h<h<hh<h<
S 2 S S 
C C C C3S-5S -3S-3
TO  ro w to W to
( <  <  <  ~ > ? >
s I
=  l
si 
 > 
Y s
s S s  s 
?!
* 3 .  S  S  S5 5 5 5 5$O O O O -
S - 0 P0
> U- > U. (fi IL (O U. (O U. (O u.
<< n( ID nS <S
c E E E c E
sPhhsh . << Ch Ch h Ch
 nS  nS  nS
8 8 8 8 c? 8 
     
CL U. li. li. li. U-r. r. r. c. z. r. HM$6666
666666
q q q q q q 
0 ( nS nS n' nS
;EEEE6EEPv v i t Q  bh C >IQ( ( QE E E
<P<q<qE 5 Esh Q( h k k ('(SS('VVVVVVVVV$; $<S / $ $
S2SSSS22SS2SSSChChChChChChChChChChChChChCh$ 
;$C-$hhChChCv$C-3-;$ZhhCh =
K hhKI-hl-l-Hhhf-hhhh
K hhhf-Phl-hHHhl-Phf- 5 555555555555555
c c C C C C C C C C C C C C C C3 333333333333333G 0)0)0)0)0)0)00)0)0)0)0)00)0)
II
CN  
0~
a E h sa1 5 
23S pC p.gi Oq Oq 
0N= =
X$
<
V n(
;$W hM/ 55X5
lV lV $nHH 
 H E$ 55
1 C
--. l3
> > C
 s|c c  ? 8| 
3M ? .
h C 
>  p sV 
(
isW3t
6I3
n  bh 3tMS 
Y< c.
 2 3 5
S S
0
II
I 5II
5 CS =!iS 
q 
>y$
 ? 
Et?
h l
3 S ^F 0 $h >
Iffflp
>q5y$PM M to to < ^ c o> !na a ?  ? s 1 
Z Z$<<q <
1 < C > M M o ?!  Ir elf 8 ?g3|2 Si's-i ci
9 Ch ?5^-- *
2 
 8. Si
5SI-(  >q $5 >
t|II.QV ( <
a ah h SS
 g$ $ n( nw prnS nS nS nS nS nSn( n( n(   n(
Ch 3t   8nS nS nS
EMM3M(ge(( ; o o t- CN o ! ! nS g<$ hh Ch ( 
!<CCdCY g<> gr; MG
( S 0
.rri2 = is.ft||
Z3  9lPskM 
 oinincNr^mo^-cot-r-co^oiD^-CNCD^-COCOCOinCNCOifCDCCOr^f^r^r^-f^r^r^r^r^r^r^r^r^r^r^Z co -o'if) io cs i^'in d*ico*t .. co in tf> O - in-CN 35 ^ co coco m (N co in co co co Oco co  t- CN-r-CNCOCNCNCOCNCNCNCO^^CO r: 00 CO 00 00
glgsssl^^^^
> l l 
,  
gnS > > 
: >f 
:Sgg  ) C h h
3S
r*. co in in o 
in in in in in in
nS <$ <$ nS <$ g$
<<Y< Ch  Ch ChnS nS ( nS n(n( n( n( n(3t 3t 3t 3t 3t^ ^^^Ep Ch Ct Ct Ch Ch
P E E E gs 3t 3t 3t 3t
 ? 
 OOO$K8 8888 SS
F (M j /^ >
II
<F F nS nS ;F nS N$ $ <$ nSO$ nS <$ ! nS $ O$ :SO$ nS r~ $nS nS nS nS nS nS nS
nS c nS nw n( nS nSh h h <$ <$ h hCh Ch Ch Ch Ch Ch ChnS nS nS g$
bt 3t 3t 3t 3t 3t 3t X X X X X X X5555555Ch Ch n8 n8 n80 Ch Ch
E Ef f f f fhpsS 
3t 3t 3t 3t 3t Y Y  
* * * ?. *   ( ( ( ( ( Q Q
h55|P...........GG55 55 55 55 55 ;$ <$
X Xy 
E8
1
Ch Ch Ch
Ch Ch Ch in in in XXX888
E E E in in in 
T. T. >n ij nS $8^ tC3M$
55555
n( n( Ch Ch Ch in in in in in XXXXX ((((( Ch <t 3t Ch C7
E E E E E in in in in in 
3 3  
S8888
r- *- C CO CO
g<nS nS nSco .co co co< < < FXXX
U. U. U. U. li.
?! W666
5 5555
<!
|0P0>0 V
i
t  W 5 L  X UL LL li.
! S i ?   m n5555555 X il X il X il 5 i 555
lV sV sV lV lV C. c. 9n  Zn
bbb5b
55555
C C C C C C C q q q q q q q ( (
n n n n n n n ?q q q
Si
II-?Ss i? m 
_$= 5|s 
>?>? siic|s.S Sls|?(?|I 
00Uq e$X _ _ - -3/> _====   n "S m T M M M W Q) q = 0!;  $ =q= = 5  5 2 H  5 33333P>P>=s|V| li a asm
li  1uGv
q q q q q
h3bth3shb
z<
zzfE<< ??tra: o e e b$b$5 hC hC m 00
iliMAMACN 
S S 8 S
  n( ;$
5^ * iit t
q q q 
nS ( (
CNCOnX
at CD CD <
3888*CNCO
IlII o. CL a. CLXCO
E
0Jill ^ in in m
E
nCNritrCN
88888^ CO CO1
cb
5225 5
q q q q 
((((
<<<<S555SS55555555M A W W M M W
q q q q q q q
E C 3 C C 3 53 3 CN 3 35 5
3h e e   <
!! V0 I I C Ns> e e < < <
ooEEx
*1 0 aSVee
CvEE
11 

$
lisL533|> >M M3y3
E E E E55 0U. U. c 
< < nw
rr?o o s 
5IHEf22?
sfsyyyy
> _ I  
-J
E Pe 
gli
ssliillifsf ?!?-! o I |s|f  sdhhlll
3?c >
f S
N 
C36
I% 
li  (
?0 li ! q  Z
3yyly!
oi^isS-|RRS9=SM3bMy
[Z"cllVE? i?. c ~ a c c
!i!f]H! illlllllll 
5 I
8 R 8
  tPRRcji:5=5=^SSSj;|RRR
Pp''?o
P?PPE(SP
n'p NRKd
o?cEP?w n(poP? (ff?oESxP 
?So(mm'?SO uIImEnuOE(S
NT f3geb P3-$2ii7 Piee3ht 
'sD N F 9lti NX 
oi53ebgsb3ht 'sD N ,
T PiCht1 P3-$2ii7 Piee3ht 
9lti N F 9lyD q 
oi53ebgsb3ht 9lti N 
pSw?oxouwpuO? OpEOE(S 3e d 
xouwpuO? OpEOE(S 3e q
?tghyy.itb Mhg b6i f3geb P3-$2ii7 
Piee3ht k3yy vi 6iy1 3t b6i 26iggibb 
ohh. hM P73vh b6i Pbl1itb uCb34
,3b3ie nitbig ht b6i M3geb 1sD hM 
Cyseeie 'ht1sDU 'sD NU 1lg3t5 b6i 
6hlge hM RT sV.V F NT thhtU
NT rV.V F JT rV.V st1 dT 
rV.V F KT rV.V ?tghyy.itb Mhg 
b6i PiCht1 P3-$2ii7 Piee3ht k3yy 
vi 6iy1 ht 'ht1sDU 9lti N Mgh. 
XTq sV.V ltb3y 0T rV.V 3t b6i 
oi53ebgsgGe (MM3CiU 2sgtig Wsyy NV
EM Dhl k3yy elv.3b b6i itCyhei1 
Mhg.U 1lyD Ch.ryibi1U rgiMigsvyD 
viMhgi urg3y q b6i oi53ebgsg k3yy 
b6it eit1 Dhl srrghrg3sbi itghyy4
.itb .sbig3syeV nhlgeie 3t vhb6 
eiee3hte sgi elvZiCb bh C6st5i 1li 
bh ltMhgieiit C3gCl.ebstCieV
PC6i1lyi ChtMy3Cbe e6hly1 vi 13e4
Cleei1 k3b6 b6i w3giCbhg hM Pl.4
.ig Igh5gs.eV
CMU &summer&76
APPLICATION FOR ENROLLMENT MATERIALS, SUMMER, 1976 
(for presently-enrolled CMU students)
THIS FORM /S SEP A RA TE FROM THE
COURSE-PREFERENCE COUPON REQUESTED EARLIER.
O(T w3giCbhg hM Pl..ig Igh5gs.e 
NX 2sgtig Wsyy 
ns.i53i$'iyyht pt3,ige3bD 
0 fhgvie u,itli 
I3bbevlg56U IitteDy,st3s N0Nq
Su'?  V_____________
P(nEum P?npoEOL Sp'a?o 
'uEmESx uwwo?PP
Iyisei eit1 .i itghyy.itb .sbig3sye Mhg b6i Mhyyhk3t5 ChlgeieT 
nhlgei ShV nhlgei O3byi pt3be Piee3ht
New ebl1itbe e6hly1 kg3bi Mhg srry3Csb3hte bh 
w3giCbhgU Pl..ig Igh5gs.eU n'pV
