Vol. 69, No. 38C-MUFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1970
Student Judicial Amendment Proposed
(Editor's Note: Following is the 
full text of President Joe Duck
worth's proposal to amend the Stu
dent Government Constitution.)
ARTICLE V.
STUDENT JUDICIAL SYSTEM
Section 1. Jurisdiction
A. Violations of non-academic 
University regulations shall be 
under the jurisdiction of the Stu
dent Judicial System. This juris
diction extends to all students  
undergraduate and graduate.
B. Violations of academic reg
ulations or other academic of
fenses (e.g. cheating, plagarism) 
shall be the jurisdiction of the Col
lege Council of the college in which 
the student is registered.
C. The responsibility of judicial 
review with respect to constitu
tionality and interpretation of all 
actions and policies of Student 
Government shall be vested in the 
General Student Court and the Stu
dent Appellate Court.
D. Various constituency and so
cial groups may institute judicial 
systems for the enforcement of 
self-imposed regulations and those 
regulations only.
1. The Student Judicial System 
shall be an appellate body for con
stituency group cases but shall re
view cases only to determine an 
error in judgement or an error in 
carrying out due process or re
specting a claim that the punish
ment imposed is excessive.
Evaluation To Be Sold 
Courses, Faculty Rated
by Gary Straus
The fall semester Faculty Course Evaluation <FCE) goes on sale 
April 1 and one week later the spring evaluation will begin to be com
piled. Bill Apple FCE chairman for Alpha Phi Omega, has said that, 
except for minor changes in the questionnaire, the spring FCE will be 
run like the previous one.
THE FCE is designed to aid the students during pre-registration 
and registration. With the help of the FCE the student can intelligently 
choose his non-required subjects as well as the instructors in most 
courses, based on the opinions of previous students. Mr. Apple contin
ued,  Since the FCE began, more and more departments have co-oper
ated by issuing in advance their course and instructor lists."
As an aid to the faculty member, the results of the FCE. when fav
orable. are included in his promotion portfolio. This rewards those who 
are outstanding teachers but may not be good researchers. This should 
have a positive effect on the teaching quality but. according to Mr. Ap
ple. it is too soon to be able to point to anv definite improvement caused 
by the FCE.
Some people have criticized the basic assumption that a student 
evaluation of teaching is valid; that students rate teachers on how en
tertaining they are in class and that students would rate low a class in 
which they were not doing well. Mr. Apple responds. I tend to give 
students more credit than that. They are as good a judge of what they 
have learned as is a final exam.
Even with the few criticisms, the faculty has been very co-opera
tive. Last fall nearly 80 per cent of the instructors ran the FCE. as re
quested. in their classes. Mr. Apple believes that the first evidence of 
the effect on faculty members of the FCE will be the response to the 
question. Did your instructor run his own mid-semester evaluation?" 
This question could be a measure of desire, on the part of faculty mem
bers. to improve their teaching quality.
Mr. Apple would like to see several essay questions added to the 
present questionnaire. There are some things that you cannot rate on a 
one to five scale." he emphasized. The essay questions would not only 
be a greater help to the instructor; they would also make the stan
dard questions more flexible to accommodate the differences in depaTt. nients.
Bill Apple has been connected with the FCE since it was begun by 
Alpha Phi Omega as a service to the campus. He is a junior mechanical 
engineering student and is now a candidate for the position of director 
ot the Academic Affairs Board.
STUDENT SENATE 
ELECTION CANDIDATES
President
Patrick Cavanagh 
Vincent J. Misitano. Jr. 
Laurel Polanick 
Mark D. Ruffner
Director of *
Academic Affairs
William Apple 
Ken Friend
Director of 
Activities Board
Bill Iacono 
Scott Murray
Independent Male
Male Commuter Representative
to Executive Council
Howard Richman
Graduate Representative 
to Executive Council
Thomas David Burgess. II
Section 2. Structure
A. The court of original juris
diction in all cases heard by the 
Student Judicial System shall be 
the General Student Court and 
shall consist of five (5 justices, 
who shall serve for one year re
newable terms.
1. No justice may be an elected 
official of another branch of Stu
dent Government or a member of 
Executive Council
2. Three of the five justices 
shall be elected by plurality vote 
of the student body during the 
spring elections.
3. Two of the five justices shall 
be appointed by the president of 
Student Government with confir
mation by a 2 3 vote of Senate.
4. An independent moderator 
shall be appointed from among the 
academic and administrative 
deans by the president of Student 
Government in consultation with 
the Dean of Student Affairs, with 
confirmation by a 2 3 vote of Sen
ate. He shall serve for a one year, 
renewable, term. He shall have no 
vote in the decisions of the court.
B. There shall be an appellate 
court for all cases. It shall be call
ed the Student Appellate Court and 
shall consist of the members of 
Executive Council as determined 
by Article I. Section 3. of this Con
stitution.
1. The president of Student Gov
ernment shall preside over the 
Student Appellate Court and shall 
have no vote except in case of a 
tie.
C. Final authority over all cases 
except those specified in Para
graph C. Secion 1. of this article 
shall rest in in the President of 
the University or his authorized 
official. He shall be considered the 
highest appellate body but may 
act only on rulings appealed to him 
from the Student Appellate Court. 
The President or authorized offi
cial shall review cases only to de
termine an error in judgment or 
an error in carrying out due pro
cess or respecting a claim that 
the punishment imposed is exces
sive.
Section 3. Procedure
A. Specific judicial procedures
shall be determined by the by-laws 
subject to the following:
1. Defendant shall have the right 
to an open or closed hearing at his 
choice.
a. In the case of a closed hear
ing. confidentiality of all records 
except verdict will be maintained.
b. The record of oepn hearings 
shall be a public document avail
able to all members of the Univer
sity community.
2. It shall be the right of both 
prosecution and defense to appeal 
rulings of both the General Stu
dent Court and the Student Appel
late Court.
3. The defendant shall be in
formed. in writing, of the nature 
of the violation with sufficient par
ticularity, and in sufficient time, 
to insure opportunity to prepare 
for the hearing.
4. Both the prosecution and de
fense shall have the right to be as
sisted by an advisor of its choice.
5. The burden of proof shall rest 
upon the prosecution.
StudendJic ud alAi mP
New Courts Discussed
by Murray Singer
Joe Duckworth has presented to the Student Sen
ate a detailed proposal whereby students would as
sume jurisdiction over the student body in non-aca
demic disciplinary cases. Duckworth described a 
court of five members, the creation of which he first 
discussed in his State of the University address last 
week. There would be. in addition, an Appellate 
Court to hear the appeals of both a convicted defendent and a foiled prosecution. The Execution Council 
would fill the role of the Appellate Court.
The entire proposal was presented as an intend
ed amendment to the constitution, but the question 
drew so much discussion that the formal act of filing 
the proposal as an official motion was postponed. 
Among the points raised was the problem which 
would arise when the administration of the Univer
sity filed a complaint against a student. Since the 
administration could sent its own representative to 
act as prosecutor, the student defendent would re
quire an equally skilled counsel. The senator who 
brought up this matter was assured that students 
would be adequately defended.
The issue of double jeopardy also brought sev
eral comments. At the present, a student may have 
civil or criminal charges brought against him and 
be disciplined by the University at the same time. 
It was the consensus of those present that the school 
should waive rights to any disciplinary action if the 
student in question is indeed charged in a court of 
law. A section was finally added to the proposal as
serting that the University will waive the right to 
prosecution when a defendent has already suffered 
an external conviction for the same act. Double jeo
pardy will exist in another sense, however. The pro
secution party will be permitted to appeal cases in
which a defendent has been acquitted by the lowest 
level court.
At this point. Duckworth suggested that discus
sion be continued at the next meeting of Senate. Be
fore the issue was dropped, however, it was acknow
ledged that graduate students, who are not subject 
to the University Code, would not likely participate 
in this new judicial system.
A second constitutional amendment was consi
dered and passed during Tuesday's meeting. By this 
amendment, the position of director of the Activities 
Board became an appointed office, and a selec 
tion committee was established to make this ap
pointment annually. Joe Seltzer, who proposed the 
amendment, also outlined an amendment to the Sen
ate By-laws which specified the details for the for
mation of the selection committee each spring. This 
measure was also passed.
Finally, Scott Lauren untabled his own motion to 
extend permanent guest rights to Bill O'Neill. 
O'Neill, not affiliated with the University, had been 
frequenting Skibo in order to proselytize for the 
church with which he claimed to be associated, and 
to counsel students in their personal problems. He 
had been told by Dean Swank that he could be sign
ed into Skibo as long as he did not attempt to con
vene prayer meetings without the permission or con
sent of the University. Swank, who attended part of 
Tuesdays meeting, also told the Senate that there 
had been concern over the fact that ONeill, al
though unqualified, had advertised himself as a 
counselor. It seemed to be the opinion of the Senate 
that ONeills activities should not be restricted 
when he is signed into Skibo by students, but that it 
was not in order to extend to him special guest 
privileges. The motion was subsequently defeated.
SENATORIAL
CANDIDATES
Dormitory
John Agatston 
Bob Brockman 
Tom Boggan 
Gerry Glaser 
John Holobinko 
James Jordan 
Ralph Pritts 
Phillip G. Rosen
AWS
Ulen Abrams
Tricia Colt 
Beth Davies 
Deborah Hallam 
Jude Heller 
Julie Johnson 
Joan Kodish 
Gerri Spilka
Fraternity
James S. Fennel 
Robert LeMay 
Charles Richardson 
Cary Scarborough 
Michael B. Sugarman
Commuter
Steve Borth 
Michael J. Garl 
George Gaspar 
Dennis Morabito 
John Messervy 
Howard Richman 
Michael D. Spring 
Myron Starochak
Graduate
Judith L. Gibbons 
Leslie G. Polgar 
Murray Singer

---------------------------------------------------

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
Page 2THE TARTANFriday, February 27, 1970
Editorial
Students have come a long way since the days when the Sen
ate constitution read that the authority for student discipline 
is vested in the Faculty Judiciary. The Student Government rec
ognizes the right of the faculty to disapprove the decisions of the 
Student Courts, to hold private trials of any student on charges 
of misconduct commited on the campus of C-MU, or while rep
resenting the University off campus, and to take such action as 
it deems in the best interest of the University against any stu
dent who has been convicted of violation of any Federal, State 
or Local laws where such convictions seriously interferes with 
the students academic progress towards graduation. Weve 
come a long way, Baby!
The new judicial process as presented to Student Senate 
Tuesday eliminates faculty participation. As opposed to the old 
system, it guarantees and defines student rights, a three leveled 
due process, the right to choose between a public or private 
hearing, and the separation of academic and non-academic of
fenses. Most importantly it sets up a student dominated judicial 
system.
One of the strongest points of the proposed structure is the 
creation of the Student Appeals Board. The Board will have the 
authority to reverse or modify penalties imposed by the court of 
original jurisdiction. No longer will a student have to appeal to a 
potentially arbitrary administrator. Under the new system a de
fendant can appeal to a Board composed of students, chosen for 
their fair-mindedness and sense of jurisprudence. Once the 
Board is operational, any defendent who feels that the Court has 
erred in its findings can make a written appeal to the Board and 
re-present his case. The Appeals Board will have next to final 
authority for upholding, modifying or reversing the courts de
cision.
Another strong point of the new system is that it makes it 
extremely difficult for the University to interfere with the ju
dicial process. If the University agrees to the proposed system, 
it will lose the right to act unilaterally. In other words, under the 
present system the the University has no right, for example, to 
discipline students who participate in a disruptive activity. Un
der the new system, the University is unable to initiate action of 
this sort, and may only act as an appellate body after a decision 
has been twice affirmed by the student judiciary. In additoon, 
the President of the University can only appeal if an error of 
judgment is found, or if there has been a lack of due process.
Although the system as presently drawn up guarantees the 
student the right to obtain legal counsel if he so desires, we 
agree with the Senator who suggested that an addition to the 
proposed amendment be made which states that if the Univer
sitys legal counsel is bringing the case before the court, then 
the University must also provide the student with legal counsel.
The question of double jeopardy is probably the most sticky 
problem in the new code. As yet, the system does not state that 
the Universitys case must be dropped if a defendent is brought 
before civil or criminal courts for the same offense. In order to 
insure students defense against double jeopardy, we urge the 
Senate to include this provision in the proposal.
There is still another problem. If the University tries a stu
dent and finds him either guilty or innocent, the civil courts, un
der the statute of limitations, may still prosecute the student 
for the same offense within a period of four to five years. Ac
cording to a report by the American Bar Association, there is 
virtually no way to prevent a subsequent trial.
Yet another kind of double jeopardy is inherent in the new 
system. In the proposal the prosecution is permitted to appeal 
cases in which the defendent has been acquitted, as in civil, rath
er than criminal, courts. Although we are inalterably opposed 
to putting a defendant in the position of defending himself twice 
for the same offense, we recognize the Universitys responsibil
ity for all actions of all students and their ultimate authority. In 
that sense, the University must have the right to appeal deci
sions. The strong point of the new system is that it makes it suf
ficiently awkward for the University to do so.
Although the language of the Student Handbook concerning 
the disciplinary process may be interpreted to mean that only 
undergraduates are included under its jurisdiction, the Univer
sity this year, by appointing a graduate student to the Disciplin
ary Committee, implied that graduates are to be subject to its 
authority. We think it is the utmost importance for graduate 
students to be specifically included in the new system in order 
for the University student community to be a working, cohesive 
whole.
We would like to congratulate the president of Student Gov
ernment and the Campus Codes Committee for fulfilling their 
responsibility and submitting a proposal to the Senate before 
the March elections. But the work does not end here. Even if the 
new system is ratified by the entire student population, the court 
will be acting on violations of the campus regulations as present
ly defined. The Senate must now evaluate the present campus 
code and propose a new one. Only the combination of a fair and 
just judicial system and a campus code which includes only 
those regulations necessary for the maintenance of a peaceful 
community will insure students the rights to which they are 
legally entitled.
End of Ivory Tower, End of Independence
Editor. The Tartan:
On reading Mr. Duckworth's 
statement in the most recent edi
tion of the Tartan, applauding the 
death of the ivory tower " at 
C-MU. I paused for a moment and 
thought of what this meant. Sud
denly. the realization came to me 
that this was the end of the Uni
versity as an independent institu
tion in society.
When you write a play or a work 
of fiction, you take your draft and 
leave it in a drawer for a few 
weeks, just sitting. Later, after 
the glow of artistic inspiration has 
damped a bit. you can re-work it. 
seeing its flaws and correcting 
them after placing a distance be
tween you and your work. This 
distance is of the utmost im
portance; you write and re-write, 
but you are never satisfied when 
you step back and really see it.
It is this distance, this objec
tivity towards your own work, that
permits polishing, and produces 
(albeit slowly i a true work of art 
final, complete and effective. 
But most artists have a great deal 
of trouble stepping back from 
their work. It is his child, a part 
of him. to be loved and cherished 
not torn apart with the cold 
scapel of objectivity. And only 
that last rational portion of the ar
tist's mind can force him back.
It is interesting that a society 
behaves similarly to an artist. It 
cannot see its mistakes close up. 
The businessman cannot see what 
he is doing to the whole economy, 
nor can he see the reasons for his 
own actions. The doctor knows 
how to cure the body, the psychia
trist the mind, but not whether 
his methods are the best possible. 
The engineer constructs, but he 
does not discover the transistor. 
The lawyer knows the law. but not 
right and wrong. These are the 
functionally educated people of
society: they work with what they 
have.
However, society has its last 
bit of reason, its final objectivity, 
to try and see its mistakes and its 
reasons. The macro and micro
economist sees the aggregate be
havior of businessmen and his 
reasons and techniques for deci
sions. The biologist and psycholp 
ogist learn about the body and 
mind, and determine new ways to 
help men. The physical scientist 
discovers the properties of mat
ter. And finally, the philosopher 
and the historian must tell the 
lawyer and the politician what is 
right and wrong.
These men are the rational 
mind of society, that part of so
ciety that can sit back and gaze 
from a distance. They must still 
know the facts about what is real
ly happeningthey cannot detach 
themselves from realitybut they 
StudendJic ud alAi mP
Campus Activities Clearing Center Established
To the Campus Community:
In an attempt to meet the need 
for some sort of clearing house 
for calendar information, my of
fice will begin providing this serv
ice for the 1970-71 academic year.
As the number of events which 
have general campus interest are
increasing, it is apparent that a 
calendar service of this kind is 
necessary. We will maintain this 
as strictly a service for those who 
need it.
We ask that you send us any 
events  individual or series  
scheduled for 1970-71 and that you
keep this office informed as to 
changes and additions. We will 
provide you with information per
taining to events scheduled on a 
date you might be contemplating 
so as to avoid any serious con
flicts.
Our office will in no way make 
any decisions relevant to sched
uling events but will seek to pro
vide information for those indi
viduals or groups planning an ac
tivity. It is hoped that as many 
events as possible will be record
ed in this office by June 26 so that 
a calendar, which will be publishAbbie Hoffman-Fantastic Put-on
Editor. The Tartan:
I must write in regard to Abbie 
Hoffman's appearance at C-MU. I 
did not see him but if the quota
tions in the Tartan are an exam
ple of what he had to say. he is the 
most fantastic put-on in a long 
time.
How any reasonably intelligent 
person can be taken in by this wild 
ranting and slogan shouting is be
yond me. Let me insert that I do 
not approve of the Chicago trial. I 
feel it was a vendetta on the part 
of Mayor Daly and others in re
taliation for bad publicity.
It's rather ironic that the ooudest critics of the "establishment " 
are often as bieoted and cvnical
as those they accuse. As a mother 
of two small children. I despair 
for the future but I fear equally 
anarchy as I do corrupt govern
ment. As many others, I search 
for solutions and eagerly listen to 
those who speak knowledgeably 
and rationally.
We need radicals! Problems of 
pollution, overpopulation, racial 
tensions have become too urgent. 
However, it is easy to list the 
problemsanyone can. and I know 
what they are. Tell me how to 
solve them in such a way that my 
children will have a better world 
to live in.
Very sincerely.
Lvnne Kracht
ed by the Activities Board, can 
list them.
We ask that all events be sent 
to our office.
Your cooperation is appreciat
ed.
R. W. McCurdy
Note: This calendar will in du 
way eliminate the need tor Week
ly Calendar published by Public Re
lations.
Irate Parents 
Thank Tartan
Editor, The Tartan:
Thanks for the pictures and 
publicity regarding conditions in 
cafeteria and on campus. Keep up 
the good work! Let us know the 
progress in these areas. We never 
would have known except for you!
Irate Parents
Secretary Emerges From Silent Majority; 
7 Chicago Defendents, Not Trial, A Farce
Editor. The Tartan:
I could be classed with the establishment as I 
am one of the older secretaries here at CarnegieMellon and. perhaps, of the silent majority. How
ever. I would like to emerge from the silent ma
jority to respond to your article entitled "Conspir
acy Day Protest Against Judicial Farce.
I agree that the conspiracy trial is a farcemade so by the seven defendants. How the most lib
eral thinking person could agree that defendants be 
allowed to act in the manner the "seven did is be
yond logical thinking. Judge Hoffman is a respect
ed. learned jurist who came to preside over the trial 
with an open mind, but how could be continue to sit 
on the bench and be insulted without putting these 
defendants down? He is not representing a person
ality. he is representing the head of the court. I 
want the head of the court to be respected.
Have the liberal' people no respect for anyone. 
It is my generation who must have failed with their 
children by not teaching them respect for education, 
experience, fairness, age. etc. and still be able to 
think freely, and be themselves.
The writer used the words . . in the future any 
judge in this country can sentence you or me to pris
on without any right of appeal for things like rais
ing our eyebrows, speaking in a harsh tone of voice 
. . . Does the writer mean to imply this is what the 
seven defendants did? We all read and saw what obsecenities they shouted and the mockery they tried 
to make of the trial and they didn't resemble the 
writer's words. The defense lawyer was warned 
repeatedly for his outrageous actions and chose to 
ignore them. Would you say the sentence he receiv
ed was a surprise to him. and undeserved?
Justice seems to be living up to the image we see 
of herblind, and she also seems to be deaf lately. 
Perhaps the courage Judge Hoffman has shown in 
refusing to be intimidated by the harassing of the 
defendants will keep justice from being trampled 
upon, and even kicked while she is down. I don't 
agree with the writer that the government mis
judged the reaction of the people to this trial. May
be people thinking as the writer of the article in the 
Tartan will make more noise with their protesting 
and they may think they are the majority, but if you 
could take a poll I am sure you would find many 
more people backing up the judge, saying more 
power to him.
Jean Gibson
Department of Chemical Engineering

---------------------------------------------------

Friday, February 27, 1970THE TARTANPage 3
Gulp When You Soy "Gulf
J
by David F. Greenberg
Gulp when you say "Gulf. because "oil imperial
ism is a mighty big word. Gulf, whose recruiter was a 
target of a recent campus sit-in, is one monster of a cor
poration. Third largest oil company in the world, with as
sets of $6.4 billion in 1967. it has nearly 100 subsidiaries 
in foreign countries, working around the clock to suck the 
wealth and natural resources out of Third World countries 
(40 per cent of its income comes from foreign opera
tions). In this it is joined by other major oil companies. 
The result is truly impressive. In 1964. world production 
of crude oil was 1.5 billion tonsmore than half of it pro
duced in Third World countriescompared to 0.38 billion 
tons produced that year in the U.S. If you compare these 
figures with the figures for oil consumption in the U.S. 
compared to oil consumption in the Third World, you will 
iearn quite a bit about imperialism. If you look at where 
the Gulf profits gointo the pockets of the multi-billion
aire Mellon family (estimates of their total wealth range 
from four to eight billion dollars or where Standard Oil 
profits gointo the pockets of the equally rich Rockefell
ers, you learn quite a bit about the way things operate 
back here in the States. Of course, our economics profes
sors tell us that these billions constitute a reward which 
the Mellons and Rockefellers deserve for "abstention. 
They don't say whose abstention it is that allows Mellon 
and Rockefeller to accumulate their billions, and when 
you think about that some you may come to come conclu
sions about our universities and economics departments.
Now some fols might be content if their personal 
wealth amounted to $4 billion or so. but the Mellons have 
real ambitions. Why stop now? Sure enough. Gulf is mov
ing on to bigger and better investments. They're building a 
new 100.000 barrels day refinery on the island of Okin
awa, presumably to handle the oil they expect to get from 
their heavy investments in Thailand and Indonesia. And 
when the people in those countries get a liberation move
ment going, and try to take back control over thier own 
oil. Gulf's refinery will be right there to provide oil for 
the U.S. military when it comes in to "stop communism. ' 
In the meantime, of course. Gulf will help America retain 
a non-military presence in Okinawa, and will be in a posi
tion to supply oil to America's puppet rulers in Asia, for 
their own military operations, and for industrial and com
mercial operations in these areas, which may be expect
ed to increase as American investment in Asia increases.
Oil and Water Dont Mix
Neither do black and white in South Africathat's oil 
tor apartheid. When some people go into another country 
they go to help the people throw out a rotten, oppressive 
government (like Che going to Bolivia, or Lafayette and 
Pulaski coming to aid the American revolution> or to help 
them build a new society (like the Venceremos brigade 
going to Cuba. When Gulf goes into another country, it 
goes with very different motives, and with very different 
results. Since Gulf just wants to make money, it doesn't 
see anything wrong with right-wing military dictators, ra
cists. colonialists. They'll get along peachy-keen with just 
about anybody, as long as Gulf gets the oil. Their opera
tions illustrate this pretty well.
With subsidiaries in the Cabinda enclave of Angola. 
Congo (Kinshasa i. Cameroon. Ethiopia. Gabon. Libya. 
South Africa. Tunisia. Mozambique and Nigeria, and three
tanker and transport lines operating out of Liberia, Gulf 
is a major force in the exploitation of oil in sub-Saharam 
Africa. Cabinda Gulf, due to its location in a Portuguese 
colony where Portugal is currently waging a war to main
tain control and because of the strategic importance of oil 
to Southern Africa, provides a good example for examin
ing the impact of the multi-national corporation and in
ternational capitalism upon Third World peoples.
Cabinda Gulf, which by the end of 1970 will be pro
ducing 150,000 barrels a day. will make this Portuguese 
enclave the fourth largest oil producer in Africa. Half of 
its production has a ready market in Portugalto fuel her 
jet fighters which drop America-made napalm on the peo
ple of Guinea. Mozambique and Angola.
Angola is a small country, but poor. Its population of 
five million has a per capita income of $90. a fact not un
related to another factAngola has been exploited and 
ruled by the Portuguese for five centuries. In late 1956, 
the Movimento Po.ular de Libertacao de Angola (MPLAt 
was founded for the purpose of freeing Angola from Por
tuguese rule. The liberation movements have been so suc
cessful that Portugal has now had to commit more than 
150.000 troops to keep control in its colonies, and spends 
more than 40 per cent of its budget on military expendi
ture. The fight in Angola is part of the escalating struggle 
throughout Southern Africa in which national liberation 
movements are confronting a unified Portugal. Rhodesia 
and South Africa, struggling to maintain white minority 
control over resources for their own benefit and that of 
international corporate capitalism.
Gulf's involvement is significant both for the main
tenance of Portuguese control in Angola nad her other 
African colonies, and for the "security of all of South
ern Africa. According to the London Times (July 23. 19691. 
oil in Cabinda offers an economic flexibility which Portu
gal and South Africa have been seeking: "The fact that 
Cabinda could, in the event of UN sanctions and blockades, 
supply the needs of most of Southern Africa, is an impor
tant factor in the international equation. (In this connec
tion it should alos be noted that Gulf is involved in off 
shore drilling for oil in South Africa.
Gulf, along with Mobil. Standard Oil of California. 
Esso. Amoco. Atlantic Richfield. Tenneco and Chevron, 
has taken the lead in oil prospecting to bolster white rule 
in South Africa. Today South Africa depends almost en
tirely on imports for its oil. But the first oil strike by an 
offshore rig was recently announced. U.S. policy on apart
heid is to work through the UN (that's to make sure noth
ing is accomplished). There is a 1963 United Nations reso
lution urging member states not to supply oil to South 
Africa. But what's a UN resolution to an oil company? The 
State Department also questions South Africa s legal 
right to adminster South West Africa. But Shell. Gulf and 
Chevron have taken up oil leases there offered by the 
South African government. Remember to buy Guld and 
Shellthey're the ones who keep white folks on top in 
Southed Africa!
Portugal has been going out of its way to encourage 
international oil companies to come into Angola. Again, 
the strategy, according to the Times, is openly political: 
And who. after all. doubts the assertion that some coun
tries previously hostile to Portugal's presence in Africa 
will change their tune as a result of the discovery (andGreek Sing: For Fun Only
by Rick Yee
This year, it seems that many 
non-Greeks on this campus are be
ing joined by certain fraternity 
men in their apparent lack of en
thusiasm for attending Greek 
Sing and Greek Swing.
This is understandable for many 
fraternity and sorority people, the 
festivities of Greek Sing mean 
nothing more than a traditional 
weekend into which many endless 
hours of rehearsals and self-sacri
fice are spent, with apparent re
wards going to but a fortunate 
lew.
For these people, the height of 
(jS 70 will be on Friday night. 
March 6; this is the evening of the 
actual competition. For most, the
phrase "singing in competition' 
is snyonymous with "dull music; 
however, following the example 
of two groups last year, there will 
be no fewer than three fraternities 
and two sororities singing noncompetitively in this year's Fri
day night concert; although there 
is no trophy to be won. these 
these groups will be enjoying 
themselves on stage.
This, in my opinion, should be 
the ultimate end of Greek Sing: 
to have fun. not to win a trophy.
Thus, if one looks over the enter
tainment for Saturday. March 7. a 
person with this proper outlook on 
the weekend can indeed enjoy him
self.
Saturday night will feature a 
date dinner, a concert by easy-tolisten-to "Orpheus. and a dance 
to the music of the Ravin Blues, 
all at the William Penn Hotel. 
Tuesday's Tartan will feature pic
tures. information, and possible 
interviews with various members 
of these two talented combos.
Stude n n n Jui cal 
daaAtmS Pau J elro
riu palmeidau saeto
RtamT Applicants are now 
being considered for the 1970 
camp season. Must be able to 
teach one of the following: 
Arts & Crafts, Arts & Crafts 
Director, Dancing, Music, Arch
ery, Tennis, Tennis Director, 
Golf, Trampoline, Cheerleading, 
Riflery, Scout Craft & Nature 
Study, A.R.C. Swimming In
structor, Small Craft Instructor 
or General Athletics. Secretary 
and Bookkeeper also needed. 
Write Camp Director, 2409 
Shelleydale Drive, Baltimore, 
Maryland 21209.
Would You Like To Become A Minister?
ORDINATION is without question and for life. LEGAL in all 
50 states and most foreign countries. Perform legal mar
riages, ordinations, and funerals. Receive discounts on some 
fares. Over 265,000 ministers have already been ordained. 
Ministers credentials and license sent; an ordainment certifi
cate for framing and an ID card for your billfold. We need 
your help to cover mailing, handling, and administration 
costs. Your generous contribution is appreciated.
ENCLOSE A FREE WILL OFFERING 
Write to: UNIVERSAL LIFE CHURCH 
BOX 8071 
FT. LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA 33314
exploitation in safe hands), of the black gold' in Angola.
That reference to "safe hands in the RICLEV is a ref
erence to Gulf Oil, which, through its arrangements with 
the Portuguese, is openly supporting their attempt to 
crush the movement for national liberation. The Portu
guese government will receive 50 per cent of the profits 
from the Cabinda operations. This increased revenue will 
help them finance their military operations in Angolathe 
earnings Portugal gets from Gulf will pay for nearly half 
of the military operation. In addition, according to a re
cent UN document, all companies in Angola have to sup
port the Portuguese government in securing peace and 
order. They must allocate some of their investment to 
build military barracks, and pay the government for the 
defense of "national property. By the end of this year, 
Portugal, by taking half of Cabinda Gulfs production, will 
be able to satisfy her entire oil demands. In fact, part of 
the agreement between Portugal and Cabinda Gulf speci
fies that Portugal has the right to take all crude oil that 
is produced, or the equivalent in refined products, should 
her military or political needs dictate. Oil not taken by 
by Portugal may go to other countries in South Africa, or 
if negotiations with the Bahamas Oil Refining Company 
are successful, it may be refined there and then shipped 
to supply the U.S. east coast with fueld oil. There can be 
little doubt that Gulf is an active collaborator in the war 
against the people of Angola.
The Role of C-MU Students.
Over the last few years, many of us have become rad
ical. as we have begun to understand what the American 
empire is doing to people around the world. Sometimes we 
have demonstrated and voiced our support and solidarity 
to those who are fighting the American military or its 
agents in other countries. But rarely do we have an op
portunity to do any more. As chance would have it, C-MU 
students are in an unusually good position to act in solid
arity with the people struggling against Gulf in Angola 
indeed, in solidarity with all those in countries exploited 
by Gulf. Gulf has a stockholder's meeting coming upat 
the end of Aprilright here in Pittsburgh. And C-MU has 
a lot of Gulf stockin fact, C-MU has more stock in Gulf 
than it does in any other companymaking it, one might 
say. a collaborator with Gulf in its operations. But it need
n't be a collaborator. Right now. so far as I've been able 
to gather, the stock is voted by Mellon National Bank and 
Trust Company. There is. however, an alternative. Why 
couldn't students and faculty elect representatives to vote 
that stock at the stock holders meeting? And if those rep
resentatives were to raise the demand that Gulf get out of 
all Third World countries, that Gulf stop collaborating 
with racists and dictators and colonialists, that Gulf turn 
over its facilities to the liberation movements in other 
countries, then C-MU students would be in a position not 
just to land verbal support, but to demonstrate by con
crete actions, their solidarity with those who are fighting 
for their lives and freedom all around the world. This idea, 
that students and faculty should vote the stock in the port
folio is a new one. but one that deserves the most serious 
attention. Because it revolves ultimately around the ques
tion, "Who is the University? It is Richard Mellon? Or 
is it the students and faculty who study and work here? Is 
it an agency for oppression, or will it become an agency 
for human liberation? What is the answer.
LUCHINO
VISCONTI'S
THE
lie was 
soon
to become 
the second 
most powerful 
man in 
INazi
(kn liai IV
SOUS UdOtA X NOT AO*HE0 Mts AGr STMCUON I BE HftHt* m CENAMI AKA$ C*C* T*ATN ON AOttftTC
AN ALFREO LEVY- EVER HAGGIAG PRODUCTION
tNGRIO HELMUT HELMUT RENAUO UMBERTO ALBRECHT
SI BINGRf NFIORMOACHARLOTTEOBICtNil STO*
* NIC01Alooumr StutdennJ 
:: NICOLA BADALUCCO-ENRICO MEDIOLI  LUCHINO VISCONTI
iecanJilJcAo MAURICE JARRE"000^ ALFRED LEVY^EVER HAGGIAGANOCONOUCTIOBY I
TECHNICOLOR FROM WARNER BROS.
WouldWYlL
walnut walln mu j 

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4THE TARTANFriday, February 27, 1970Man Must Change Mental Environment 
s Bertoluccis "Before the RevolutionSay
By SAM McCOOL
Before the Revolution 
directed 
By BERNARDO BERTOLUCCI 
The Metacurricular Film Series 
features art films of great im
portance to anyone interested in 
modern cinema or existentialism. 
Especially helpful to the inter
ested viewer is the discussion 
directed by Concetta Greenfield 
after the last showing of each 
film.
Tuesday, Before the Revolu
tion, directed by Bertolucci, 
was shown three times in the 
Skibo Ballroom. During the 
first two showings the lighting 
was poor, and consequently, some 
scenes could not be seen many
\\
of which I found out later at 
the last showing were important 
in Bertolucci's subtle filming of 
plot. The technician who ran 
the projector should be either 
changed or taught how to focus 
the picture - he nearly ruined the 
last showing.
An important effect on a man's 
ability to change is the control 
he exercises on his environ
ment. His mind creates much 
of his environment, and man 
can only become something 
more than he is through chang
ing his mental environment. This 
is the basis of Bertolucci's 
theme. He creates three main 
characters to portray through 
their interaction three types of 
existential behavior: 1) unwillingness to choose any direction 
in life; 2 committment to one 
direction in life: and 3) aware
ness of many directions in life 
with no committment to just 
one.
The central figure of the film 
is Fabrizio, the son of a Italian 
bourgeoise family. Even so. he 
is receiving lessons in revolu
tionary ideology as a member of 
a communist party. He attempts 
to be a good party member - to 
live the revolution - and leaves 
his bourgeoise love. Clelia 
("She is the city) in the begin
ning of the film.
Fabrizio tries to convince his 
young friend. Agostino, to committ himself to the communist 
party. Agostino annoys Fabrizio
Honor/' Soys Rubin to Indictment
StaoP Editors note: the following was Jerry 
Rubins initial reaction to receiving the presti
gious federal indictment for his part in the 1968 
National Democratic Convention.
...This is the greatest honor of my life. It is 
with sincere humility that I accept this federal 
indictment. It is the fulfillment of years of child
hood dreams, climaxing years of hard work and 
fun........
...I realize the competition was fierce, and I
congratulate the thousands who came to Chicago. 
I hope that I am worthy of this great indictment, 
the Academy Award of protest........
Supernatural is the only way to describe 
the anti-riot law.
Congress passed it as a warning to the game 
of football. Fans who cross state lines, and then 
tear down the goalposts, are subject to arrest.
The crime is not in the act, but your IN
TENT at the moment of crossing state lines. It
is against the law to think bad thoughts while 
crossing a state line.
You can even break this law in your own
home, A telephone call to someone in another 
state is enough. Or a letter. Or an interview on 
radio/TV which is broadcast from one state to
another ..........
Uou do not even have to be at the scene of 
the riot itself. You can jet-plane into a town, give 
a speech, and then jet 10.000 miles away. If a 
riot takes place after your speech, no matter 
where you are, you are guilty of "causing it . . .
...These indictments are the responsibility of 
Richard Nixon. They were delayed for weeks 
waiting specific and personal approval from the 
White House
They represent a bald attempt by the govern
ment to try to use punishment to stop demon
strations. The United States government thus re
peats a classic error of all dying empires: under
rating the bravery of her youth.
The major result of these indictments will 
be to excite every young kid across the country 
to want to cross state lines and become a riot
er" by the time he is a teen-ager.
Yippie,
by running away from his par
ents yet returning later when he 
can not decide that running 
away is the correct thing to do: 
his running away symbolizes his 
unwillingness to accept the finalty proposed by Fabrizio. He 
does not accept party member
ship as the only future, which 
Fabrizio suggests: Agostino. in 
a Kirkegardian way. wants to 
retain a number of alterna
tives to his life, yet he is threa
tened by these same possibili
ties. Unwilling to make a de
cision. he becomes a case of 
neither becoming nor "be
ing: he drowns. Bertolucci lets 
the viewer decide whether the 
drowning was an accident or a 
suicide caused by the anguish 
of a decisionless state of being.
Fabrizio does not have this 
consern for alternatives in his 
life. He wants a direction to his 
actions. He thinks that he be
lieves in the cause of the com
munist revolution, but through a 
relationship with his aunt. Gina, 
he discovers his mind unwilling 
to change completely. Son of 
the bourgeoise. he is a bourgeoise reciting passages from 
books on the communist revo
lution.
Gina . is Fabrizio s opposite. 
She clearifies her existential 
position through one simple 
question, which she directs to 
the audience as much as to her
self: Order? She does not be
lieve in one kind of order and 
time. She is aware of the many 
alternatives of existence: and 
even though the awareness of 
them gives dispair and lack of 
direction to her gestures, it
makes her capable of under
standing and communicating 
with many different people 
even though she confesses that 
they frighten her. In fact, she 
is as close to the old decadent 
land owner. Lombardo, as she is 
to the communist teacher. Cesare: as close to Fabrizio as to 
the unknown lover she picks 
up in the streets. Gina fully rea
lizes the alternatives of exis
tence which Agostino could not 
face. Yet. she offers to Fabrizio 
a complexity of gestures which 
he cannot comprehend. Unlike 
Fabrizio. she does not despair 
at not understanding the books' 
revolution but argues for and 
against the revolution with her 
mind. She identifies with both 
the bourgeoise and the revolu
tion as Fabrizio can not. His 
failure to affect Gina with his 
talk of revolution, since she is 
more aware of what he is say
ing than he is, causes him to re
cognize his failure to be a true 
member of the revolution and 
accept the violent overthrow of 
the bourgeoise."
Bertolucci does not favor any
one of his three main characters. 
Agostino dies. Fabrizio goes back 
to Clelia and the bourgeoise. 
His parents are happy, and he 
"accepts everything now." Fab
rizio stops becoming. and at 
the end he is nothing more than 
a bourgeoise vegetable.
Bertolucci treats Gina no bet
ter than Fabrizio. She is sick, 
afflicted with a "fever of the 
nerves." Bertolucci may be say
ing that a person must be a lit
tle crazy to live for the present 
and claim no past or future as 
Fabrizio does'
ikeYToi
McKENDREE SPRING
BcmA 
WMnst r?::UttN
Tickets Still Available For Only $1.00 
At Skibo Information Desk
Sponsored by 
The Activities Board

---------------------------------------------------

McKendree: Topflight
Friday, February 27, 1970THE TARTANPage 5
NEW YORK  Two exceptional 
tolk-style voices contributed to a 
topflight show at the Bitter End on 
May 15: James Taylor and Fran 
McKendree. The latter also had 
strong instrumental support from 
the other members of his Decca 
group: McKendree Spring.
Taylor, accompanying himself 
on acoustic guitar, relied heavily 
on material from his debut Apple 
album, including "Something in 
the Way She Moves. "Some
thing's Wng. "Sunshine, Sun
shine and his single "Carolina in 
My Mind. The last was c*ne of 
his many highlights.
He went gospel in "People Get 
Ready. traditional in "Oh Susan
nah. " resltess in "Something's 
Wrong and tender throughout, 
especially in "Something in the 
Way She Moves and "Sunshine, 
Sunshine. Taylor also sang the 
Coca-Cola commercial and a blues 
take-off with good comic effect. 
Taylor's easy banter also buoyed 
his performance.
McKendree Spring is one of the 
top young folk units around. In Mc
Kendree. the group has a vocalist 
with a Tim Hardin sound. Mike 
Dreyfuss is one of the most ta
lented of young musicians as he 
played violin, viola and teremin. 
Add solid work from electric gui
tarist Martin Slutsky a d bass gui
tarist Larry Tucker and McKen
dree Spring has a good sound with 
a bright future. McKendree play
ed acoustic guitar.
The group also relied heavily on 
its debut album with the bluesy 
"No Regrets" and the subtle pro
test "Spock stanind out. "I Can't 
Make It Anymore" also utilized a 
steady folk theme. The faster "If 
the Sun Should Rise" was another
* Architects
* Engineers
* Business/ 
Majors
* Education/ 
Majors
* Economics/ 
Majors
* Math/Science; 
MajorsPeace
good number from the Decca LP.
Fred Kirby
McKendree Spring will perform 
tonight at 8:39 p.m. in Skibo Ball
room. Tickets are on sale tor $1 at 
Skibo Information Desk and in 
Baker Hall. The group is being pre
sented by the Activits Board.
People Needed
We have tne names of seven in
terested people. To really make a 
selection and thus be fair to ap
plicants and the schools they're 
going to, we need more! So let 
me have any and all names of like
ly suspects, and I'll get informa
tion and applications to them right 
away!
We agreed that we would talk 
to faculty to get names and then 
talk to students. Keep on with that 
plan, but let me have the students' 
names so that I can send them in
formation, even before we talk 
with them.
Soon we will want to get togeth
er to plan the orientation for the 
people selected.
Tom Huff 
Office of 
Cummunity Affairs
IVER uUS T?::FUC HtOSFU 
ItNXFSnSnt8
Tues.-Sat.  4:30-9 p.m. 
Sunday  7:30-10 p.m. 
EXHIBIT AND SALE 
of Student and Faculty Work J 
jFINAL to be printed in poster size:! 
| consider cost. $40 Prize for diosenj 
(design. Bring design to the Gallery? 
| by March 14th.
WLeYk0rue7RLi
MARCH 4
Compliments of the Alumni
\\The Jew"
Students for Israel invites you 
to hear Lord Samuel discuss the 
question, "The Jew: Race or Re
ligion?" He will draw on the re
cent Shalit case in the Supreme 
Court of Israel. Lord Samuel, cur
rently a Senior Mellon Fellow in 
the Graduate School of Public and 
International Affairs of the Uni
versity of Pittsburgh, has spent 
52 years in Palestine and Israel.
Tuesday, March 3, 7:30-9:30 
p.m., Wherret Room, Dkibo Hall.
Seminars To 
Discuss God
A seminar on The Existence of 
God will meet for three Monday 
evenings, March 2, 9 and 16, at 9 
p.m. in the Lang Seminar Room, 
115 MMCC. The Arguments for 
Theism will be presented on 
March 1 by Peter Cook and 
Michel Doreau, graduate students 
in electrical engineering. David 
Wojick, graduate student in phil
osophy at the University of Pittsbrugh, will present A Defense 
of Atheism March 9. A discus
sion based on the first two sem
inars is scheduled for March 16. 
The seminar is sponsored by Tech 
Christian Fellowship and all mem
bers of the University community 
are welcome to attend.
SPRING VACATION 
oREue 
0L1uiYkeW
(SENSITIVITY)
.k0DWokH
March 19th  21st
Sign up now at 57 Skibo! 
MORE DETAILS LATER
HoY1YHHYeL 
H0k,LIi 34fA
FINAL APPLICATION FORMS; 
Available at 57 Skibo
GET YOURS NOW
Free Films
The Carnegie Museum of Art 
has established a new division to 
deal exclusively with film which 
will present a free film series 
on Sunday evenings at 7:30 in the 
Carnegie Lecture Hall beginning 
this Sunday, March 1. The series 
will be a chronological presenta
tion of the history of film begin
ning with the works of Lumiere 
from the late 19th century.
In addition there will be month
ly appearances by nationally 
known independent film makers 
who will show and discuss exam
ples of their work. The first of 
these will be Jonas Mekas, a well 
known film maker and critic for 
the Village Voice, on Wednesday. 
April 1. at 8:30 p.m. There will be 
an admission charge for the 
series of independent film makers. 
Others appearing in this series 
will be Robert Breer and Stan 
Brakhage.
Do you think a bright young engineer 
should spend 
his most imaginative years on 
the same assignment?
Neither do we.
(Edito rE' rs EdNs d ire: 
'sdF leidiwen gFehFdf ueF 
hFdxPdiwnh snhwnssFo rEe 
rePJx DFsusF ie scDJeFs osNsFdJ 
iskEnwkdJ dFsdo pnx iEdito rE' 
fdn' eu ePF dFsdo dFs eFhdna
wmsx S' uPnkiwen GFdiEsF iEdn 
S' DFevski
pi CPhEso. 'eP fwhEi 
reF) en oDdkskFdui. keffPnwa
kdiweno odisJJwiso dnx*eF idkiwa
kdJ fwoowJso xPFwnh 'ePF uwFoi 
ire 'sdFo
pJJ 'eP nssx wo dn AA. BA 
eF gE'owko xshFss dnx idJsni
Iu 'eP MPdJwu'. rstJJ dFFdnhs ueF 
'eP ie reF) en osNsFdJ xwuusFsni 
doowhnfsnio dnx you kdn 
EsJD Dwk) iEsf
ReP fd' osJski oDskwdJa
wmsx veSo. eF SFedx o'oisfo: 
i'Ds veSo yF 'eP kdn kEeeos 
nei ie kEdnhs doowhnfsnio wu 
'ePtx FdiEsF xsNsJeD wn:xsDiE 
o)wJJo wn ens dFsd
AwiEsF rd'. rs iEwn) 
'ePtJJ Jw)s iEs CPhEso dDa
DFedkE
Ii fsdno 'ePtJJ Sskefs 
feFs NsFodiwJs wn d oEeFisF 
iwfs F::::::::::::::::::::
Wpnx 'ePF T oRToLW a
odJdF' rwJJ bKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKK8
oEer wi3HUGHES AIRCRAFT COMPANY 
AI ROS PAC K DIVISIONS
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS:
BdFkE 99.9$1H
lsDFsosnidiwNso eu osNsFdJ dkiwNwiwso eu CPhEso pwFkFdui efDdn' WsdkE rwiE EwhEJ': 
oDskwdJwmsx DsFoennsJ FsMPwFsfsnio dnx osDdFdis wnisFNwsr okEsxPJso3 rwJJ Nwowi 'ePF 
kdfDPo Iu 'ePF kdFssF wnisFsoio Jws wn ens eF feFs eu iEs ueJJerwnh uwsJxo eu dsFea
oDdks*sJskiFenwko. kenidki 'ePF gJdksfsni yuuwks (ypR ie fd)s oPFs 'ePF ndfs 
hsio en iEs wnisFNwsrwnh okEsxPJs ueF C/jCAL pAlyLgpA IUILIyzL:
Microwave & Antenna Engineering 
Guidance & Controls Engineering 
Spacecraft Design Engineering 
Components & Materials Engineering 
Weapon Systems Engineering
Electro-Optical Engineering 
Microcircuit Engineering 
Space Systems Engineering 
Missile Systems Engineering 
Circuit Design Engineering
U.S. Citizenship required/An equal opportunity employer.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6THE TARTANFriday, February 27, 1970
psJA RlTI pnICJIIic
by Sherry Sukol
Drugs in the Dorm . . . have we 
or haven't we? Though "Drugs in 
the Dorm" was the topic for dis
cussion on WRCTs Open Line on 
Sunday evening, the discussion 
which took place barely touched 
on that topic. The panelists for the 
program were Tom Kerr. Amer
ican Civil Liberties Union; Dr. 
Jim Korn, associate professor of 
psychology at C-MU; Dr. Edward 
Bamonte, director of C-MU Health 
Service, and Dr. Robert Morgan, 
director of the C-MU Counseling 
Center and associate professor of 
psychology. Though the main top
ic wa ot discussed in great de
tail, each u. the panelists proved 
to be informative in his field.
During the course of the discus
sion, Mr. Kerr emphasized the 
fact that a raid for the purpose of 
uncovering drugs presently can
not be conducted without a war
rant, and. to obtain a warrant, of
ficials must have evidence that a 
law is being violated. However, 
the controversial No-Knock Bill 
which just passed the Senate by 
an overwhelming majority, would 
allow officials to search private 
establishments without a war
rant. This bill is presently in the 
House of Representatives, and. if 
it passes, it will violate one of the 
basic rights of the peoplepri
vacy. The bill does have one pro
vision which separates marijuana 
from hard drugs with respect to
Vista Is Coming
yYWiu 0FXUFOF8S?SnJF pn:: sF 
ke IuEHRW
MONDAY and TUESDAY 
E?Uhw v8&g mU&g 34fA
Room No. 56 Skibo
Orientation 
69-68-67-66
* Freshman Camp
* Movies
* Deans Convocations
* Presidents Reception
* Deans Reception
* Presidents Ccnvocation
* Computer Center Program
* Frosh Picnic
* Dinks
the penalties involved upon con
viction for possession or sale. 
This provision of the bill is an in
dication of the more liberal view 
which the government is taking to
ward marijuana. At the same 
time, the government is taking 
harsh steps against the sale of 
hard drugs.
Dr. Morgan feels that mari
juana will be legalized in the near 
future. He pointed out that the 
most serious damage to the users 
and pushers of marijuana is done 
inthe court system.
Dr. Korn stated that he is in fav
or of the legalization of mari
juana as long as its sale is con
trolled as is the sale of alcoholic 
beverages.
The panelists made several pro
jections for the future of mari
juana. If legalized, there will be 
better control of the quality and 
potency of the marijuana which 
is sold. Furthermore, the market 
will no longer be centered in the 
underworld, but will become a 
part of legitimate business in the 
United States. In addition, 
research will be carried out with 
quality controlled marijuana, thus 
enabling researchers to better un
derstand its affects on man s mind 
and on his body.
More information concerning 
drug use and its affects can be 
procured from the Counseling 
Center and from several members 
of the psychology department here 
at C-MU. Dr. Korn is currently 
teaching a course concerning 
drugs which is said to be quite in
formative. He hopes that next 
year this course will be open to 
all students who are interested in 
becoming acquainted with drug 
use.
4 x $2200 
t STEAK 
OR
1 Lobster Tail
Lie EuJsI le eVi 
SENIOR BANQUET
March 4, 5:45 p.m.
Amendment
StudendJic .suU alAi D P
6. Both the prosecution and de
fense shall have the right to pre
sent evidence and witnesses and 
shall have the right of cross-ex
amination.
7. A verbatim record, such as a 
tape recording shall be made of 
the complete proceedings in all 
hearings and shall be kept by the 
independent moderator and shall 
be available subject to the restric
tions set forth in Paragraph A. 
Subsection 1 of Section 3 of this 
article.
Ivory Tower
StudendJic .suU alAi NP
must still know the facts about 
what is really happeningthey 
cannot detach themselves from 
reality  but they must have that 
distance, that objectivity.
It has been the University's 
function to provide a place where 
they men can think unhindered by 
the pressures of a society that 
cannot see its own mistakes. The 
method it has used in the past has 
been the "ivory tower. The Uni
versity serves to separate those 
who think and those who act  re
member that society can react 
against those who act and perhaps 
destroy them. By protecting our 
thinkers from the perils of action 
and the power of soceity through 
making them totally necessary to 
society (they reach), they sur
vive and are fruitful.
I think the -"ivory tower " is a 
good thing, when not in excess. 
We are lucky to have an institu
tion that protects and nurtures 
those who can objectively discov
er the faults and the principles of 
our existence. There are other so
cieties where these people must 
agree with society's answers to 
surviveperhaps Mr. Duckworth 
would like to see that here.
Edward M. McClure. Jr.
Drama. '71
L8G:nOw lFX?USNF8S 1FhS-UF
DR. JOHN HART 
bblkWikdLyWDdKK
Tuesday, March 3rd 
YaM1 fY t-vayo 
11:30 A.M. Fine A is Theatre
||
I&
AA AjL.
t/jL
AAjL .vl asn*dL vjl
/TUJUL cLuzj.
ovasnt ter
and
inLjusL. SjcU^) LJuL9th.

---------------------------------------------------

Chemical Manufacturing
Rohm and Haas 
Company
Plastics, Fibers, Pharmaceuticals, 
and Chemicals for Agriculture, 
and the Processing Industries.
Will Interview on
MARCH 11, 1970
For positions of responsibility, 
diversity and strong future 
advancement possibilities.
RESEARCH, ENGINEERING, PRODUCTION, 
MARKETING, FINANCE.
s.IUDNLUY.ID .LDNM1Df-LfEn sUDv-E DvN ayyIgLE -.fh1b.h1- 
-.L lnen DvN Iv jj yhfLIbv gh1v-fILEn
ROHM IHRR3PHILADELPHIA. PENNSYLVANIA 19105
HOMEWORKERS WANTED
Envelope addresser*; send Self Ad* 
dressed, Stamped Envelope. OVER
SEAS JOBS; HIGH PAY, List of Com
panies Hiring; $1.00. The Elliot Co., 
748 Washington Ave. Miami Beach, 
Florida 33139.
NEWYORK TO LONDON 
SUMMER VACATION TRIPS 
Round Trip  $169
Now Filling  Small Deposit and 
Payments  Send for Free Details 
Student Globe Roomers 
Box 4475, Hollywood, Fio 33021
iF88nO EFFSn8G
MONDAY, MARCH 2nd 
4:30 p.m.
THISTLE HALL
Friday, February 27, 1970THE TARTANPage 7
.Tartans Defeat Waynesburg And Geneva 
Pitt Here Tomorrow For Final Home Game
Photo by Jerry Siskind
Bill Weborg puts his hands up in self defense while Waynesburgs Brian 
McMahon climbs up his back while driving to basket. Weborg scored 
25 points in the two C-MU wins this week.
THE CAPTAIN TAKES CHARGE
CARNEGIE-MELLON
Fg-Fga Pt-PtaRPts.
Abraham10-145-10825
Cotter3-102-478
Grazzini7-144-61218
Hardiman0- 10-010
Stobbe3-111-267
Weborg3- 42-328
Conrad2- 40-034
Totals 33-7515-274981
C-MU 38
Waynesburg 39
WAYNESBURG
Fg-Fga Pt-PtaRPts.
Sheffield4-112-71010
Bynum8-110-0716
Maczurak6-102-3514
Zenewicy4-140-488
McMahon8-203-3819
Miller2- 20-054
Pavlovich3- 40-056
Jackson0- 01-111
Totals35-728-185278
32 1181
31 8-78
Three wins in a row! Believe it or not, thats three consecutive victories for the Tartans 
and the momentum is increasing. After destroying Western Reserve last Saturday, the C-MU 
team returned home to nose out Waynesburg in overtime, 81-78. Then they defeated Geneva, 72- 
65. The Tartans now have a shot at matching last seasons eight victories if they can pull out wins 
over Pitt tomorrow and W&J Wednesday.
Bill Abraham, the C-MU captain, was largely responsible for the recent Tartan success as 
he scored 45 points and grabbed 20 rebounds in the last two contests. In addition, the overall team 
play seemed considerably improv
ed.
Wednesday's home game 
against Geneva was the first 
game that the Tartans have play
ed without Bob Brown suited up. 
The top scorer on the team. Brown 
was in the hospital with the flu 
and his status for tomorrow's 
game is uncertain. In any case the 
starting five of Abraham, Grazzima, Cotter, Stobbe and Hardiman took charge in the first half. 
Aided by numerous Geneva turn
overs (especially traveling vio
lations), C-MU jumped to a 24-12 
lead. A 35 foot set shot at the buz
zer by Genevas Randy Hubbard 
set the halftime score at C-MU 
37, Geneva 28.
When Abraham picked up his 
fourth personal foul, the Tartans 
were ahed by seven and 13 min
utes were left in the game. In the 
next five minutes, the Golden Tor
nadoes made it a ball game as 
they closed to within three points, 
57-54.
Geneva's Bill Allen hit a foul 
shot a minute later to knot the 
score at 57 and things looked tense 
for C-MU with both Grazzini and 
Abraham in foul trouble.
NEXT VICTIMPITT
Abraham
C-MU
FG FT RBS
9-15 2- 4 12
Pts.
20DeCarlo
GENEVA 
FG FT RBS
2- 5 3-4 4
Pts.
7
Cotter2-102- 396Tinstman5- 93-51113
Grazzini2- 52- 356Allen1- 52-274
Hardiman2- 52- 366Aultman1- 30-022
Stobbe8-150- 0516De Bois8-150-022
Weborg8-131- 1417Sheffield5-110-0410
Conrad0- 01- 101Creasman0- 50-020
Hubbard6-181-1813
Totals31 6310-154572
C-MU373572Total28-719-133965
Geneva2837-65
Then Stobbe came through with 
two buckets while Hardiman and 
Cotter added one each in an 8-2 
C-MU burst. But Geneva fought 
back (with the helf of a ref with a 
broken Mickey Mouse watch) to 
make the score 65-63 with 1:10 
showing on the clock.
At this point, Abraham did his 
own thing. He scored after re
bounding a missed shot from the 
field. Then he wrapped up the 
game by grabbing Grazzini's 
missed free throw and putting the 
ball through the hoop for the 
clincher.
In addition to Abrahams 20 
points, Bill Weborg scored 17 and
Dave Stobbe had 16. Stobbe play
ed his best game ever in a Tartan 
jersey as he played the entire 40 
minutes and hit eight of 15 from 
the floor. Pete Dubois led the los
ers with 16 points.
On Monday, C-MU took an 81-78 
overtime decision over Waynes
burg. Bill Abraham got the Tar
tans off to a good start, but the 
Yellow Jackets had a 12 point lead 
midway through the opening half.
The Tartans fought back, outscoring Waynesburg 11-10 during 
a five minute period, and Bill We
borg put C-MU in front for the 
first time, at 31-29. The half end
ed with Waynesburg on top, 39-38.
Neigher team gained more than 
a six-point lead in the second half. 
With the score tied, 70-70. Waynes
burg was playing for the last shot 
but Kevin Cotter intercepted a 
pass. However the Tartans could
n't score and regulation time end
ed.
uIiYyYiYLW 
rku0l
XUFOF8SO
HERBIE 
MANN
Eud :KS
Carnegie Music Hall
{anyone INTERESTED in working on j! 
V fhi program come to Room 46 Skibo, / 
Monday or leave name at Skibo t
5 e
The frantic five-minute over
time saw C-MU take a one point 
lead with a minute remaining. 
Abraham made a clutch bucket on 
a rebound, but Waynesburg came 
back to within one point. Cotter 
then made two free throws to put 
the game out of reach.
Abraham led all scorers with 
25 while Brian McMahon had 
19 for the Yellow Jackets. Graz
zini was the top rebounder with 12 
and also added 18 points.
The final home game of the sea
son is tomorrow at 2:30 p.m. 
against Pitt. The Panthers, led by 
Kent Scott's scoring and Mike 
Patcher's rebounding, have a 10- 
12 slate going into this game. 
They beat the Tartans at the Field 
House. 72-56, but C-MU has the 
mystical powers of the Skibo gym 
in their favor. The Tartans need 
this win in an attempt to equal last 
season's record. Pitt would like 
the victory in order to finish their 
season at .500 (they are now 10- 
12). It should be a good hard 
fought game. Come early if you 
want to get a good seat.
Photo by Jerry Siskind
Stop Action. C-MU Captain Bill Abraham eyes loose ball while sus
pended in mid-air. Abraham will play his last home game tomorrow 
along with Bob Grazzini, Bill Weborg, Dave Stobbe and Fletcher Hardiman.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8THE TARTANFriday, February 27, 1970
INTERVIEW SCHEDULE
Moiday, March 2,1970
l-2-FO8F 1nGwSKo?CFOg WF?Cg E?SSFU8 9 E?SSFNK 
Ht:?Utn&K0Iu ItUXtU?Snt8K
yuWIkK.LWiyuIkn8F H?XFUO lnJnOt8K1?MF It-8SC r&P tf L&Pkwnt
HF?hF ItUXOyYWiu
Tuesday, March 3,1970
IwUCO:FUK0Iu ItUXtU?Snt8KWSP ,tOFXw 1F?&KWXFUUC 0?8& ItUXtU?Snt8 WXFUUC TCUtOhtXFK
i0.g Y8hPR8nt8 I?Usn&F ItUXtU?Snt8 
IwFNnh?:O 9 H:?OSnhO lnJPKHF?hF ItUXO 
yYWiur&P tf L&P tf UF&FUnhM It-8SCE&P
Wednesday, March 4,1970
TF8FU?: En::OKT:F?Ot8 .tUMOKe?Snt8?: I?Ow 0FGnOSFU ItNX?8C WD Y8&-OSUnFO WSP ,tOFXw 1F?&KWhw:-NsFUGFU .F:: WFUJnhFO
Wpn8&F::VlUFOOnFUk?MNt8S Whwtt: lnOSUnhSH?PHFSFUO itp8OwnX Whwtt:OH?P
Thursday, March 5,1970
I?NXsF:: Wt-X 
It8Ot:n&?Snt8 It?: ItNX?8CK nUFOSt8F inUF 9 0-ssFUK TF8FU?: En::OKotp?U&g eFF&:FOg i?NNF8 9 rFUGF8&tff 
EF::t8 e?Snt8?: r?8M 9 iU-OS 0thMpF:: E?8-f?hS-Un8GK
Friday, March 6,1970
rFSw:FwFN WSFF:K (O-NNFU)0P 0P lt88F::FC 9 Wt8OKoP ,P oFn8zK
E?OO?hw-OFSSO Y8OSnP tf iFhwP1n8ht:8 1?sOPKetUSw L:FhSUnh ItNX?8C 
HF88OC:J?8n? HtpFU 9 1nGwSK y?Un?8 uOOthn?SFOK
Hwn:?&F:Xwn? e?J?: WwnXC?U& e?J?: .F?Xt8O 1?sPK
L8JnUtNF8S?: WhnF8hF WFUJP u&Nn8PIt?OS 9 TFt&FSnh W-UJFCKiwF lU?hMFSS ItNX?8C
Tuesday, March 10,1970
uY0Ik WHLL0Kr-8MFUV0?NtKoFUh-:FOK
D?nOFU Y8&-OSUnFOKHUthSFU 9 T?Ns:FKiFx?O Y8OSU-NF8SOK.tUSwn8GSt8 Y8SFU8?Snt8?:
Wednesday, March 11,1970
TF8FU?: lC8?NnhOL:FhSUnh rt?S lnJnOnt8K oFUh-:FOKo-GwFO unUhU?fSKEP .P DF::tGGKHUthSFU 9 T?Ns:FK0twN 9 o??OKHGwP lnOSUnhS ItUXO tf L8Gn8FFUOK eP u::FGwF8C Whwtt:OVH?P
Thursday, March 12,1970
IF:?8FOF ItUXtU?Snt8KIw?UNn8 H?XFUKI:?nUt:KtU& EtStU ItNX?8CHwn:htVtU& ItUXtU?Snt8 EnhUtF:FhSUt8nhO lnJP EFSUtXt:nS?8 L&nOt8KH?UMFf l?JnO 9 ItNX?8CK 0FX-s:nh WSFF:KFUUnO WS?SF It::FGF
Friday, March 13,1970
uFS8? 1nfF 9 I?O-?:SC uS:?8Snh InSC L:FhSUnhK1?SUtsF WSFF:K
i0. WCOSFNOKR8nUtC?: IwFNnh?:K
.FOS HF88 HtpFU ItNX?8CK .FOSFU8 TF?U ItNX?8CKInSC tf I:FJF:?8&
lFXSg tf ItNN-8nSC lFJP It-8SC tf 1tO u8GF:FO lFXSg tf HFUOt88F:K
Tuesday, March 17,1970
eFp dtUM InSC r&P tf L&PeP dP
Monday, March 9,1970
L::ntSS ItNX?8CK
Ehlt88F:: lt-G:?O ItUXtU?Snt8K iFx?O Y8OSU-NF8SOK
inNMF8 0t::FU rF?Un8G ItNX?8CK .FCFUw?F-OFUK
HnSSOs-UGw r&P tf L&PH?PWXU?G-F L:FhSUnh ItNX?8C
