The K 
half-time
Volume 80, Number 9
November 13,1979TARTAN
Carnegie-Mellon University
Pittsburgh. PA 15213
Berg elected AUA trustee
Dean Daniel Berg a
Daniel Berg, Dean of the Mellon Institute 
t>f Science, has been elected to the Board 
of Trustees of the Argonne Universities 
Association.
Berg, who served a one-year term on the 
board last year, was elected to a three-year 
term at the annual meeting in October. His 
new responsibilities include serving on the 
Education Affairs Center Committee and 
the Component Technology Development 
Committee.
The Argonne Universities Association is a 
non-profit corporation, comprised of 30 
member institutions, that foster scientific 
research by participating in th manage
ment and operations of Argonne National 
Laboratory. The 23-member board consists 
of representatives from academia, industry 
and government. Their duties include for
mulation, review and approval of the lab
oratorys policies and programs. They also 
help to establish objectives for cooperative 
research and educational programs between 
the scientific and technical community and 
the laboratory.
14% vote in elections
728 students, or about 14% of the stu
dent body voted in last Wednesday and 
Thursdays Student Senate elections.
The college with the greatest number 
and highest percentage of voters was C1T. 
320 students elected Eric Butler, Laurie 
Elm, and Scott Miller.
145 voters from the Mellon Institute of 
Science voted in Kimberly Ames, Edna 
Kunkel, and half term Senator, Michael 
Inners.
Jerry Richie was elected to fill the one 
vacant seat in the college of Humanities 
and Social Sciences. The total number of 
votes cast in the college was 120.
The College of Fine Arts filled the great
est number of seats with 118 votes. Elected 
for full terms were Carl Freedman, Reiko 
Yano, and Pam McKay. Jim Collyer and 
Mark Brna were tapped to serve a half term 
each.
Robin Smith was elected by 14 students 
who voted in the School of Urban and Pub
lic Affairs.
11 students in the Graduate School of 
Industrial Administration selected H. Wal
ter Young to fill their senate seat.
The percentage of students voting was 
up slightly over last year's 12.5% participa
tion. The new senators terms begin at to
night's Senate meeting.
Argonne National Laboratory, established 
in 1946, is one of Americas major federallyfunded research and development institut
ions. It performs broad research in the phy
sical, biomedical and environmental scien
ces and serves as a major center for nuclear 
reactor development for the Department 
of Energy.
During his tenure on the Component Tech
nology Development committee, Berg will 
oversee projects in super conducting 
magnets, coal combustion, nuclear reactor 
components and magneto-hydrodynamics 
(MHD)-an experimental method of creat
ing electricity by passing extremely hightemperature gas through a magnetic field. 
Unlike traditional forms of energy product
ion, MHD uses no moving parts, such as 
turbines, and direct current electricty,which 
has many industrial uses.
Berg belongs to many professional societ
ies and is g Fellow of both the Institute of 
Electronic and Electrical Engineers and the 
American Association for the Advancement 
of Science. He is a member of the National 
Academy of Engineering. Berg presently 
holds some 14 patents and has authored 
over 40 technical and management articles 
and books.illie Marching Band, performing under the direction of Drum Major John Wooldridge at 
is in need of new uniforms. See story on page 5.
Financial Aid "depends on need'
by Larry Duffee
Colleges in the United States would 
generally be more willing to accept an 
academically strong student who could 
not pay his tuition than a student who 
could pay half his bill. This is because 
colleges receive federal money to put the 
disadvantaged student through school 
while the middle class student must bor
row money to continue his or her educa
tion.
We want the decision of which college 
to go to to be based upon academics and 
not money, said Walter Cathie, Direc
tor of Financial Aid, but I know that 
there are colleges in the nation which 
actively try to buy students. Cathie 
said that CMU is not such a college.
But yes, we do look for-, students 
who are academically superstars. We 
are looking for the best because that is 
what we are all about.
CMUs loan money is given out ac
cording to what is known as a regress
equation, which is a series of complex 
equations to determine desirability. These 
equations are similar to the type 
used to determine initial acceptance to 
CMU.
CMUs money is given out depending 
on need, but for three exceptions, which, 
according to Cathie are: Music or Human
ities scholarships which students may 
receive; Occasionally in H&SS and Music 
there is an attempt to buy a student. For 
example, last year there was initiated a 
program by which 46 $1000, one time 
grants would be given out to talented 
students. But only 19 out of the 46 came; 
The college reserves the right to match 
a scholarship, given a student by another 
college, with what is termed a 72 hour 
letter. At this point it becomes a matter 
of who has the most money, providing 
the school feels the student is worth 
the cost.
In a sense, the middle class is getting 
screwed, said Cathie, a disadvantaged
Patrick Hayes, who holds a Ph.D. in math from CMU is on the board of governors of the Federal 
Reserve Bank. See page 5 for details of a recent lecture he gave here.
kid can come here for free, a rich kid 
can afford it, but the middle class parent 
who worked hard to put his child into 
college, ends up paying for aid, and that of 
his fellow class. He was referring to 
the fact that 10% of all tuition money 
is turned right around to be given out as 
aid, which hurts those who pay.
"There will always be people who try 
to beat the system, but we chase after 
them 100%.* Cathie said as he answered 
questions about loopholes in the Finan
cial Aid structure. Last year, we saved 
approximately $40,000 in financial aid 
for the schools benefactors and the 
Federal Government. We have a very 
aggressive department. We check tax 
returns and have people sign releases on 
their tax record. And we are one of only 
two colleges in the nation which does 
this.
Cathie commented, We most definite
ly will take people to court if we have to. 
But we dont like to publicize these mat
ters.
I resent the fact that State insti
tutions give money out without checking 
tax returns or bank statements. We have 
checked and we have saved money, but 
still we are discriminated against by the 
Federal Government. But the situation is 
getting a little better in terms of Federal 
aid, especially for a middle class people.
A students grades may affect the 
amount of financial aid that he receives. 
The percentage of aid for a student may go 
up or down. But we do take into affect 
the different schools that a student is in. 
What I mean is that an Architectural 
student may be outstanding at only 2.5, 
while a music student may be average at 
3.0.
The CMU Financial Aid program is 
a successful system, claims Cathie, We 
started the formalizing of the entire 
financial aid system in the nation. We were 
the first to take the system apart from 
academics.

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN
Get off your...!
Why should we have expected anything but a dangerous
ly light voter turnout for this weeks Student Senate elec
tions?
We CMU students have been sitting on our tails for 
months now, with nothing but faint whimpers over the ad
ministration s injustices to us.
First, it was the $600 increase in tuition for 1980-81. We 
had the chance to do something last year, before the deci
sion was made to increase tuition. We had student senators 
and representatives to speak for us. Did everyone agree with 
the ad ministration-that CMU was not meeting the competi
tion by having a comparatively lower tuition rate? Did ev
eryone agree that we should bridge the gap" as quickly as 
possible? It doesnt matter now. Well all be paying $600 
more next year to go to CMU.
Then, there was the Food Service system. We believed 
we were being ripped-off by the Vali-Dine system: we com
plained about having to pay much more for food this year 
than we did last year. Some of us even went as far as mur
muring about a boycott of Skibo cafeterias. When action 
should have been taken by students, it wasnt. We didn't 
work together to combine our individual frustration and an
ger into a viable, larger force. Were still paying more, and 
were still wondecing why our current balances have dwin
dled down noticeably faster than the Vali-Dine budget 
schedules indicate.
Most recently, it's the Margaret Morrison apartment res
idents petition. The petition charged the University with 
breech of contract under the terms of the Housing License 
Agreement: each student was not provided a desk and book
case the day (s)he moved into the apartments. This is not 
exactly an earth-shaking injustice, but students' rights were 
violated. Residents met recently with several University of
ficials to discuss their complaints; students are finally doing 
something, though it may again be too lateand not 
enoughto change things. Will anyone be reimbursed for 
this inconvenience? That remains to be seen.
Now, there is an Educational Policy Committee which 
has recently been formed to discuss the very basics of our 
education at CMU. Do any of us have questions or sugges
tions for this committee? It's not too late, in this case, to 
make an impact on some very important decisions that have 
yet to be made.
Does anybody care? Does everybody like everything the 
way it is around here?
The answer to that last question may be yes, judging 
from the feeble 14% voter turnout for the Senate elections. 
We are fools because we have again let the administration 
get "one up on us. We have allowed the 24 people that rep
resent us to be elected by a mere 728 of us. So much for the 
democratic "freedom we might have had...
FCE: decent exposure?
Congratulations to AI phi Phi Omega!
The Faculty Course Evaluation (FCE) that they pub
lished was distributed just in time for registration. Now we 
can all take a dose look at the courses and instructors we 
will be committing ourselves to for the next term. Its worth 
the look, for the comments that appear tell the story of 
more than individual courses-they tell of the quality of 
education at CMU:
-Spelling/writing requirement not expected.
 T.A.s are useless because they are unprepared.
(The professor) doesnt appear interested.
Course lacks organization.
-Professor missed too many classes, could be more organized. 
-Good instructor, however, too much emphasis on 
memorization.
. . . with 5 instructors, course is somewhat disjoint. 
Instructor always late.
Excellent teacher and enjoyable course.
-Homework appears to be busy work.
Excellent instructor. Really cares about her students.
.. . grading was based too much on grammar.
More grades needed besides final exam.
Professor is sincerely interested and enthusiastic.
Jean Pellegrini 
Edi tor-in-Chief
! i
r.r.i
r..
% -cf ^
Rt: !
ti, .
! 1
iC
Second time around Editor:
Well, here we go with another 
parry-parry-thrust between CIT 
and H & SS. Being a sophomore 
here, this is only the second 
time Ive seen it happen. Starting 
a little late this year, arent we? 
Anyway, H&SS has had their 
chance to strike back at CIT 
(which they muffed up miser
ably), so its CITs turn. Hey, you 
H&SS dummies - the idea is to 
strike back at all of CIT, not just 
that one poor fool who started 
this years battle.
Heres how its done:
Economics The science of 
common sense. In other words,
you have to go through four years 
of college to obtain something 
CIT students need before they can 
get into a college. What a waste of 
time. All the economists are 
telling us is that the country is 
going to the dogs. Or to the H&SS 
studentssame difference. [sic].
History something out of the 
past. Frankly, I couldnt give a 
damn about what happened in the 
last century. Let us not forget the 
past, lest we repeat it. What does 
everyone remember about the 
past? As far as I can tell, its that 
everybody forgot the past.
Theres the H&SS computer 
system - more commonly known 
as the TOPSB. I can think of no 
better waste of a couple million
dollars worth of machinery. As a 
CIT student, 1 have plenty of 
needs for the computer. I use it 
quite a bit, and I dont have 
enough room to store all my 
files. Ten and twenty page direc
tories are what most CIT students 
are limited to. Then, a friend of 
mine gets an H&SS account of the 
B and what does he get? One 
hundred permanent pages and 
twice as many working pages. 
What for? He doesnt know. But 
theres all the space a CIT major 
could ever dream of, and its 
being wasted. Why dont they give 
some of that space to CIT?
Dont feel bad about people 
snickering at H&SS majors. H&SS 
majors were made to snicker at.
TARTAN
Volume 80 
Number 9 
November 13,1979
Editor-in-Chief: Jean Pellegrini 
Managing Editors: Neil Adler
Brian Byrnes 
Business Manager: Karen Stevens 
Production Manager: Michael Brzustowicz
News Editor: Doug Kirsop 
Features Editor: Lynn Epstein 
Entertainment Editor: Alan Spero
Sports Editor: Perry Colosimo
Associate Editor: Mory Brenner 
Magazine Editor: Susan Borg 
Photography Editor: Robert Zusman 
Art Director: Tom Mejalis
News: Beth Arden, Asst. Editor; Luis Ball, Beth Bangor, Tim Bardwell, Jim Bost, Dave Boyce, Sue Brillman, Jeanette 
Bryan, Anne Cesnick, Stan Cieslak, Linda Dickerson, Carol Dietrich, Ed Frankenbery, Chris Gebhardt. Andre Jenkins, 
Neva Jones, Paul Karmin, Mark Kennett, Pete Levin, Chris Magyai, Donald Mawson, Kwasi Mensah, Deb Morgas, Debbie 
Nir, Elliot Ohlberg, Judy Ohlin, Andy Ragan, Dena Santoro, Sheryl Sazim, Scott Schaffer, Andy Sicree, Molly Silver. 
Ben Smith, David Seet, Vernon Valentine, Lisa Vaughan, Jane Weisbacher, Sue Wilkin, Elsie Yoder, Eddy Zayas.
Features: Jeanne Abmayr, Lisa Andruzzi, Luis Ball, Beth Bangor, Valerie Brandt, Art Benjamin, Michael Conroy,Chris 
Gebhart, Bob Gleason, Neva Jones, Paul Karmin, Kathy Krummert, David Land, Kwasi Mensah, David Mills, Sheryl 
SMtma. Stu Seidman.
Ascertainment : Kate Bertrand,theater editor; Ed Slosky,events editor; Scott Alburger, Bob Henry, Dave Kirby, Paul L. 
Kravits, Cheryl Goodman, Joan Livitski, Paul Mendler, Gretchen Miller, Aline Naters, Debbie Nir, Scott Schaffer, Ted 
Smits, Vernon Valentine.
Sports: Dave Wills, assistant editor; Fran Arsht. Ronnie Ben-Avon, Dave Brandwene, Pat Crump, Bernie Ivanshultz, 
Frank Pugliano, Dave Radack, Scott Schatter, Bob Share, Thomas Smith, Lesley Weiser, Craig Woolheater.
Production. Suzanne Chan, Ken Kulak, George Lyons, Janet Martin, Gretchen Miller,Smita Hai, Nancy Richman, Anne 
Rogers, Ken Salem, Lynn Sokol, Sue Wilkin. Ed Zayas.
Photography: Chuck Chidekel, Larry Duffy, Andy Edelman, Jenny Ladd, Marcy Lubitz, Michael Melnick, Skip Stong. 
Art -Tom Hart, assistant director; Robert Conroy, Andy Epstein,Tina Klem,C.C. Otto.
Copyright 1979 by the Carnegie-Mellon University Tartan. All rights reserved. The Editorial Board reserves the right 
to edit or withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Gov
ernment of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; (412) 578-2111 or 2112. 
24-hour answering service 2113. Business Offices: Skibo 52; (412) 578-2111. Printed by Artcrafts Unlimited, 
Pittsburgh, PA 15206.

---------------------------------------------------

views
oimliiilamC< eangw *pgwc
(Dr. William F. Elliot, Director 
of Admissions, discusses his view 
of recruiting new students.)
Every Carnegie-Mellon Univer
sity student comes in contact with 
the offices of the Enrollment 
Planning Group. All undergrad
uates have applied to the Univer
sity through the Admissions Of
fice . A large percentage of all stu
dents have filed various forms 
with the Financial Aid Office. 
Academic registration, schedules, 
grades, and records for all stu
dents are kept by the Registrars 
Office. Almost all students now 
take advantage of the career 
counseling services and job in
terview schedules provided by the 
Office of Career Services and 
Placement.
Each of the Enrollment Plan
ning Offices has a responsibility 
to you to meet your needs in a 
most effective and efficient man
ner. Many changes have taken 
place in each of these offices over 
the past several years to anticipate 
your needs so as to serve you bet
ter. When you see that the ser
vices provided by any of these 
offices are not helping you, please 
bring this to my attention or to 
the individual office manager who 
is in charge. You can help us in 
other ways also.
When you were an applicant 
for admission to Carnegie-Mellon 
University the Admissions Staff 
sent you information about CMU 
and provided opportunities for 
you to learn more about the 
University by inviting you to in
formative programs in your home
town area, by arranging for you 
to talk with CMU alumni, and by
making arrangements for you to 
visit the campus for an interview
or a Sleeping Bag Weekend. In 
meeting your needs as a prospec
tive student the Admissions Staff 
was also fulfilling its responsibility 
to many other people. In evaluat
ing your application for admission -t
to CMU the Admissions Staffwas 
meeting its responsibility to CMU 
alumni, ^students who were then 
currently enrolled at the Univer
sity, employers seeking to hire 
Carnegie-Mellon graduates, cur
rent and future applicants, and 
the faculty and staff of the Uni
versity. Now that each of you is 
enrolled at CMU, the Admissions 
Office assumes an obligation on 
your behalf to bring to this cam
pus in September, 1980, and in 
years to come, a group of fresh
men who will live up to expec
tations and continue to make this 
university an exciting and viable 
community. This is a challenge 
and responsibility which the Ad
missions Staff willingly accepts.
This is why the Admissions Office 
administers the several programs 
with which you are familiar. Some 
of you are Hosts in our Sleeping 
Bag Programs (remember when 
you were a sleeping bagger and 
visited the CMU campus for the 
first time?); others are Campus 
Representatives (have you seen 
The Professional Choice T-shirts 
on campus?). Another program 
newly reorganized and revitalized 
is the Carnegie-Mellon Admissions 
Council (CM AC). CM AC is com
prised of interested CMU alumni 
who assist with various recruiting
activities in selected geographic 
areas.
There are also ways which 
every student can assist with the 
admissions efforts of this univer
sity. You can contact prospective 
students who are considering 
Carnegie-Mellon University in 
their college plans when you are
home for Thanksgiving and/or 
Christmas vacation. If you are in
terested in becoming part of this 
vital organization which is entrust
ed with the responsibility of the 
future enrollment of our univer
sity, then I invite you to stop by 
the Admissions Office prior to 
your departure for Thanksgiving
and/or Christmas vacation to ob
tain the names, addresses, and 
phone numbers of prospective stu
dents and to convey your personal 
impressions of your CMU exper
ience. You are important to us in 
conveying to future students the 
qualities of this university. We in
vite you to participate.more letters
Of course, Shakespeare is more 
interesting than calculus. The 
idea is that calculus is a subject 
which must be learned. Sure, 
Shakespeare is interesting to read 
or watch, but thats about all. To 
spend your college years studying 
Shakespeare is a waste. Nothing 
new is gained from it. Calculus 
opens new frontiers for us. Look 
at what Calculus has helped us 
achieve: Twenty years ago, a 
popular science fiction theme 
was Men in Space. Now, its a 
fact. Pocket calculators solve 
problems in milliseconds that
some Chinese mathematician 2000 
years ago spent days solving. 
(Stick that one in your history 
bong and smoke it.) Tell me we 
could have these things without 
calculus.
Technology is the name of the 
game. We engineers, mathemati
cians, and physicists modernize 
the world, while you historians, 
sociologists, and economists try to 
figure out what weve done. That 
paper youre reading right now, 
the chair youre sitting in, and 
that light youre reading it by are 
are all a product of technology, 
What has H&SS given the world 
that compares to anything Tech* 
nology has done? If it werent for 
technology, there wouldn't have 
been any rich Andrew Carnegie to 
found this school.
Frankly, you H&SS dummies 
should be glad that youve got 
future technologists here in CIT, 
or you might spend your ret ire 
ment days reading handwritten
(with charcoal) volumes of Shake
speare in a cave.Phil Okunewick 
CIT
The CMU Screw
Dear Editor:
After attending this University 
for two months, I think I have 
discovered what this school is try
ing to teach its students: the high 
cost of living. I am sure that 
President Cyert, and certainly the 
Director of Food Services, would 
agree. The only trouble is that 
many students are not exposed to 
all the valuable lessons that are to 
be learned.
To correct this deplorable 
situation I would like to suggest 
a new column, The CMU Screw 
of the Week, which would give 
students a place to turn to, to 
make sure they are aware of all 
the Universitys efforts. Perhaps 
the first column could deal with 
the 5 cents one is charged when 
he orders a glass of water in the 
Tartan Grill. I would be available 
to write this column on a weekly 
basis. Maybe I should charge the 
college for doing a job  teaching 
students about prices - that they 
seem to think so important.
David Golden 
Freshmen CIT/MIS
For Pete's take
Editor:
J would like to congratulate 
Ed Frankenberry for his article 
about Pete Flaherty in last weeks 
[sic] paper. It took real skill for 
him to get so many inaccurate 
statements about one man into
such a short article.
To begin with, Pete Flaherty 
had nothing to do with the cur
rent Renaissance II underway 
in Pittsburgh. Renaissance II was a 
term coined by the current mayor 
of Pittsburgh, Richard Caliguiri, 
who succeeded Flaherty in the 
spring of 1977. What Caliguiri 
meant by this term was the begin
ning of a new relationship be
tween city government and
private industry that would lead 
to growth for the city of Pittsburgh 
[sic]. This policy was in direct 
contrast to Flahertys policy, 
under which city government and 
Pittsburgh industry were consist
ent adversaries.
While I realize that Pete 
Flaherty is an excellent politician 
with a keen sense for taking re
sponsibility for things that he had 
nothing to do with, if Franken
berry had bothered to research 
Flahertys past he would have 
found that Flaherty did not tell 
him the whole truth.
In saying that Flaherty man* 
aged the city like a business 
Frankenberry should have asked 
Flaherty why did Caliguiri find 
the city in financial shambles 
upon taking office [sic]. Within a 
year of Flahertys leaving the 
mayors office the citys bond 
rating was dropped several points. 
Financial analysts have basically 
agreed that this was do [sic] to 
the financial policies under the 
Flaherty administration.
There is also the issue of
Flahertys cutting the city prop
erty taxes. He did not mention 
to Frankenberry that six months 
prior to his becoming mayor, 
while still on city council, he 
pushed a bill through raising the 
property tax rate over 20% [sic]. 
Later on it was very easy to cut 
back this large increase. Also, 
during the first few years of his 
administration several very large 
redevelopment authority projects 
came on line and starting paying 
property taxes, when for the pre
vious decade they had drawn on 
the city coiffers [sic].
Finally there is the Skybus 
issue. While Flaherty might have 
been right in killing Skybus, he 
did nothing for the Pittsburgh 
public transit system. He pro
posed no alternative to Skybus 
and let the existing trolley and
bus fleets deteriorate under inade
quate funding. It was under the 
current city administration that 
action was first taken on the pro
posed light rail vehicle system and 
that most of the citys bus fleet 
had been replaced.
While Pete Flaherty might have 
been a dynamic personality with 
his anti-establishment image, the 
city had clearly suffered under 
his regime. One of the premier 
city planning departments was dis
membered, the road and bridge 
system collapsed under temporary 
and inadequate repairs instead of 
permanent solutions [sic], and 
the city continued to lose pop
ulation and jobs faster than most 
northeastern industrial cities.
I do not wish to knock Pete 
Flaherty as a lecturer of urban 
problems. He has a special insight 
and intimateness with problems 
facing the American city that can 
only be acquired through years of 
experience on a first hand basis. 
However, as with most profes
sional politicians you should not 
accept 100% of everything a pol
itician says about himself [sic].
Stuart I. Seidman 
Senior, Architecture
Start
Something
It has become evident that a 
lot of the controversies that excite 
this campus start right here, in the 
letters-to-the-editor section of the 
TARTAN.
The letters section is a vital 
source of controversy. Your opin 
ions, ideas, complaints, etc. are 
read by 5500 TARTAN readers 
every week.
If you write a letter-to-the-ed 
itor (and theres a good chance 
that youll be heard by the people 
you're trying to reach), just type 
it, double-spaced, and mail it 
through Campus Mail to the TAR
TAN, Box 17. As long as letters 
are signed and coherently written 
well print them all. Names will 
be withheld upon request.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4-TARTANNovember 13, 1979
i.Rt: ,tr
CRflDinonS
(.HIAI
svmBOCs
Carnegie-Mellon University
A new breed of college managersSpace money
The National Space Club will award a
$2,000 scholarship for academic year 1980*
1981 in 1980.
The terms of the scholarship are as follows;
1. The applicant' must be a U. S. citizen, 
in at least the junior year of an accred
ited university, and have the intention 
of pursuing undergraduate or graduate 
studies in science or engineering during 
the interval of the scholarship.
a. official transcript of college record;
b. letters of recommendation from fac
ulty;
c. accomplishments demonstrating per
sonal qualities of creativity and lead
ership;
d. scholastic plans that would lead to 
future participation in some phase 
of the aerospace sciences and technology;
e. personal need is considered, but is
not controlling.2. The selection tor the Award ts made by
the NSC Committee on Scholarships on 
the basis of the following;3. Applicants should apply by letter and
times past, he wrote,deans and academic 
administrators were faculty colleagues. But 
all this has changed.
Stewart contended that ultimate control 
of American colleges has passed to a 
class of managers who have little know
ledge of teaching of intellectual curiosity. 
The new breed shares its powers only 
with the state legislators, who frequently 
determine college budgets.
Stewart wrote the only way to get the 
balance of college power to shift back 
toward faculty members is for teachers 
to indulge in more aggressive collective 
bargaining in the next decade.
(CPS)A philosphy professor from Ohio 
University says that the central question 
in higher education in the coming decade 
is ow to rid colleges of their new rulers: 
a new breed of administrator-managers.
In the most recent issue of Education 
magazine, professor David Stewart calls 
faculty influence in university policy 
a myth. He recounts how minor salary 
increases, a loss of voice in the selection of 
academic department chairpeople, and a 
growth in administrative bureaucracies 
have combined to diminish faculty mem
bers power through the seventies. InThe Engineering Students'Art Loan Collectionf 
will be on exhibit at the E&S library through 
November.ROTC at CMU explained
'SUPA Day 
a success
Army ROTC cadets at Carnegie-Mellon 
University have the option of selecting 
service in either the Army Reserve or 
Army National Guard upon graduation 
and commissioning as a second lieutenant. 
The Reserve Forces Duty option applies to 
cadets in either the four-year or two year 
program according to Major Harry Johnson, 
Professor of Military Science at CarnegieMellon University.
The meaning of this option to our 
young men and women is important, 
Johnson said, because it allows our 
cadets to serve in a Reserve Component 
unit to complete their military obligation 
and make a start in the civilian career of 
their choice at the same time. Cadets make
Started in 1966, the school is relatively 
young. As a school, I feel good about it, 
said Davis, addressing the luncheon group. 
He cited one of the main purposes of the 
school as to better train people going into 
the public sector. The school, said Davis, 
is in a position where it needs to expand. 
By expand, Davis explained that he 
would like to see the' Masters class grow 
to a size of about 60 students a year.
Citing cases of SUPA graduates in vari
ous job positions, Davis stated that our 
influence has reallly been spreading across 
the nation. SUPAs Masters Degree pro
gram boasts a 100% job placement rate.
Davis also commented bn SUPAs criteria 
for Ph.D. students. Among the most impor
tant are flexibility or the ability to work in 
many areas, the ability to look into the 
real world, and the ability to formulate 
new ideas.
Two presentations followed the lun
cheon, one on a SUPA Radiaton Project, 
the other on a SUPA Housing Project.
Entitled Reducing Risks of Diagnostic 
X-Radiation: Personal Record-Keeping and 
Other Strategies, the Radiation Project 
Presentation showed various ways in which 
the public could be protected from high 
radiation exposure in diagnostic procedures.
The Housing presentation was entitled 
Building Codes and Rehabilitation: Is a 
Rehabilitation Code Appropriate for 
Pittsburgh? This presentation focused on. 
the amount of Rehabilitation in individual 
residential structures in Pittsburgh, as well 
as its costs and regulatory processes.
Because of its success, SUPA currently 
has plans to schedule another SUPA Day 
next spring for prospective students.
SPECIAL PRODUCTS for PARTICULAR PEOPLE
Most Valuable Player
Order your Traditional CMU or CIT Ring on 
Friday, November 16and ^^3
Monday, November 19 Efc HS'
at
10 A.M. in the Bookstore 
?o 4 P.M.
Heisman Award
Special Offer on the New 
Space-Age Material 
EXCALABUR 
Ladies Ring  $69.00 
Gents Ring - $74.00 
$15 Deposit Required
Over 40 Years of Service to CIT and CMU
GET YOUR CAREER 
OFF TO A FLYING 
START
It takes four years to get a college degree. How 
long will it take you to get a good job?
If you haven't settled on a company or corpor
ation yet, why not get your executive career off 
to a flying start as a pilot or navigator in the United 
States Air Force? It's the finest flight program in 
the world, the pay is excellent, and you'll enjoy 
the prestige that goes with the silver wings of an 
Air Force pilot or navigator.
It's one of the finest opportunities in the nation. 
And a great place to gain executive experience 
with million dollar responsibility. Find out today 
about the Air Force flight program. Contact
opa1wu R\wc
CAMPUS CONVENIENCETARN-ccf T^R !tAine wbbrTn doflgmga
>eeeee'h'eeeye&meeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeyeeeeeeeeeeee,aae\aeeefeeef-yeeee,ey'a,yyyyyyWe>E

---------------------------------------------------

November 13, 1979-TARTAN-Page 5
'CMU Goes to the Circus' to help the Kiltie Band
by Pete Levin
The high spirits of the newly restored 
Kiltie Band were the first thing that Jack 
Purcell noticed at a football game last year. 
Purcell, a CMU 41 alumnus, professional 
band leader and trombone player, was in
spired by the fine degree of musical talent 
exhibited by the band.
He was, however, dismayed by the 
bands hodge-podge uniforms, and de
cided to organize a fund-raiser. The profits 
would go towards re-outfitting the band.
Purcell took his idea to the Pittsburghs 
Mens Clan and the CMU Alumni Associa
tion. Both agreed to help sponsor his pro
ject conditional upon finding a good fund
raising scheme. Then a colleague, Jean 
Connelly, suggested the Three Rivers 
Three-Ring International Circus to Purcell. 
Thats when the idea hit me, he ex
plained, that we could raise some money 
for the Kiltie Band and have a lot of fun at 
the same time.
Purcells idea was to buy 6000 seats at 
one of the circus performances at the Civic 
Arena and sell them to CMU alumni, facul
ty, students, and associated personnel. 
Not only did the Mens Clan and Alumni 
Association like the idea, soon the Pitts
burgh Womens Clan, the Student-Alumni 
Relations Council (SARC), and the Stu
dent Activities Office also decided to get 
involved, and the Circus Committee was 
formed.
Purcell and his committee members 
have a long way to go before they will
reach their goal of $40,000. Figuring on an 
80 piece band with uniforms costing about 
$500 apiece, they realized that even if they 
were to sell all the Circus tickets, they 
would still fall short of their goaL
Of course we are not going to make all 
the money we need in one project, but if 
we use this as a springboard for our other 
efforts, we will be well on our way to achieving our goal, Purcell stated. His con
fidence is convincing, as is his enthusiasm. 
I feel strongly that we must have a suc
cessful drive, he explained. There is 
more than just uniforms to be bought; its 
a whole new school spirit that we could 
bring back. I think that it has been some
what missing in the absence of the Kiltie 
Band. Now that they have regrouped, the 
least we can do is to get new uniforms to 
get them started. Now that we have once 
again a championship football team, we 
need a first rate band to go with them. 
Tickets can be purchased in the Alumni 
office, at the Skibo information desk, in 
the Kiltie Cafe, or from band members. 
The CMU Night at the Circus is Sunday, 
November 18, 1979 at 6:00 PM at the 
Pittsburgh Civic Arena. All proceeds from 
ticket sales will benefit the Kiltie Band.
The Mens Clan is offering $100 dollars 
to any group that can sell the same in 
tickets, and Jack Purcell will continue to 
chair the committee until the goal is met. 
My wife threatened to leave me if I do 
this again, he joked, but Ill make sure 
that we get these people their uniforms.
Pittsburgh Men's Clan members Chuck Jones (President) E'44, Bill Cornwell E'29 and circus 
chairman Jack Purcell A'41.
Student Senate Report
CMU grad speaks on Fed
by Andre Jenkins and Chris Magyar
Dr. Patrick Hayes, a CMU graduate and 
member of the Board of Govemers at the 
Federal Reserve Bank(FRB) Operations, 
gave a seminar in the multipurpose room 
of the Hunt Library last Wednesday. His 
topic was Operations Research in the Fe
deral Reserve System.
Hayes, who recieved his Ph.D in Math 
from CMU in 73, is responsible for de
veloping mathematical models and perfor
ming operations research analysis for use 
in reaching Federal Reserve System policy 
decisions. He also works to improve the ef
ficiency of the FRB operations.
The purpose of the seminar was to fam
iliarize students and especially applied 
math majors, with some typical applica
tions of mathematical modeling . These 
models include simulation, and linear pro
gramming techniques used to develop 
practical solutions to various forcasting 
problems. We are always looking for 
ways to make the Federal Reserve System 
more efficient, said Hayes.
The Federal Reserve System divides the 
nation into 37 Federal Reserve offices, 
including one in Pittsburgh, with head
quarters in Washington D.C. Among the 
functions of these offices are the distri
bution of currency to commercial banks, 
check processing, and periodic examina
tions of commercial bank operations. 
According to Hayes, operations research 
applies math modeling to : recognize and 
define problems; assess the economic and 
temporal advantages and disadvantages of 
different solution paths; develop and test 
analytical solutions using historical demand 
data; and to communicate potential solu
tions to management with clarity and sim
plicity .
Hayes explained that he used these 
guidelines in the development and imple
mentation of three forcasting models . 
These models are the expected currency 
demand at each office; check forcasting, 
which is the volume of checks recieved as a 
multivariable function; and optimal check 
processing. During the seminar, Hayes de
lineated each of these forcasting models il
lustrating them with the use of techniques 
such as multiple linear regression, Winners 
method and the Time Series method. 
Hayes asserts that the Federal Reserve 
Board is concerned with reducing the cost, 
which is currently many millions of dollars, 
to taxpayers of printing and distributing 
cash.
At the end of the seminar, Hayes hand
ed out shredded five dollar bills and dis
cussed careers in Operations Research. He 
is in the process of identifying prospec
tive graduates who are interested in ca
reers related to Operations Research, Ap
plied Math or Forcasting. Anyone interest
ed in contacting Dr. Hayes for details 
should contact Dr. Richard Moore of the 
Math department.
The seminar was sponsored by AIESEC 
and the Math department.
by Scott Miller
The last meeting of this session was held 
on Nov. 4, 1979.
It was announced that Senate elections 
were being held on Nov. 7 & 8. There will 
be a reception for all new Senators and 
anyone else interested on Nov. 11 at 8 PM 
in Room 12 of Skibo.
Spring Carnivals budget was presented 
to Senate, discussed and approved as pre
sented. Senate also added $134 to its own 
budget to send three delegates to a nation
al board meeting of Student Government 
in Philadelphia.
It was suggested that Senate look into 
the increase in room and board charges for 
next year of 325 dollars. Jim Balsom sug
gested that SDC can better look into it and 
said he would do what he could.
It was announced that the Tuition com
mittee would start meeting soon and any 
interested people should contact Scott 
Sibley.
Things to Remember
Blood Drive - Nov 14, 15 in Skibo 
Senate Meeting Nov 13, in Wherrett 
Room at 7:30 PM.
Activities Fee Referendum Dec 5
The first Senate meeting of the new 
session will be held next Tuesday. Election 
.of officers will take place and everyone is 
welcome.
TECHNOLOGY AND 
POLICY AT MIT
A MASTER OF SCIENCE PROGRAM designated for 
persons wanting to participate in formulating policies for 
the development, use and control of technology and its 
consequences. Students form individual curricula to work 
on issues such as solar energy, the economics and legal 
aspects of materials recycling and the use of automation in 
manufacturing.
For information write:
Prof. Richard de Neufville 
Rm 1-138, Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology 
Cambridge, Massachusetts 
02139
yiiiiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiuaiiiiiiiiiiiiDiiiiiiniiiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiriiaiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiHiiiaiuiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiDiiiiiHiiiiiaiiiuiiiiiiy
5 I
FOR ONE ISSUE ONLY! 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
ARE y2 PRICE!
Classified Ads for the November 20, 
1979 issue will be only 5<t a word
SUBMIT YOURS NOW!
sniiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiimiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiiaiuiiinNiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiiQiiiiiiHiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiHiiaiiiiNiiiiiiiaiiiNNitaaafae
photo by Robert Zusman

---------------------------------------------------

^ SFlarriswho?
Harris who developed and 
assembled twelve space-deployable antennas that will serve the 
sophisticated satellites of the 
TRW/Western Union/NASA 
Tracking and Data Relay Satellite 
System (TDRSS).
Harris who is expanding its 
expertise in text editing and copy 
processing into new applications 
in office automation.
Harris who developed the 
semiconductor industry's first 12- 
bit digital-to-analog converter.
More than 7,800 people are 
already contributing to state-ofthe-art projects like these at Harris 
in Florida.
Designing, producing and 
marketing in a professional 
environment that encourages and 
rewards contribution.
Participating in the world
wide growth of the communica
tion and information processing 
industry.
Harris in Florida. The stateof-the-art experience. It's your 
future!
Systems Group
Designs, develops and manufac
tures high technology electronic 
equipment systems for a broad 
spectrum of industrial and 
government markets.
Analog Design 
Antenna Design 
Component Technology 
Digital Design 
Electromechanical Test 
Mechanical Structures Design 
R F Design
Write to:
R.B. Jones, Manager 
Professional Staffing, Harris 
Systems Group Operations, P.O. 
Box 37, Melbourne, Florida 32901.
Composition Systems
Designs, develops and manufac
tures minicomputer and micro
processor-based systems to 
automate text editing, copy pro
cessing and phototypesetting. 
Expansion of existing product 
lines had led to development of 
office word processing systems.
Software Development 
Digital Design 
Analog Design 
Test Engineering
Write to:
M. Susan Gaffney 
Harris Composition Systems 
Division, P.O. Box 2080, 
Melbourne, Florida 32901.
Semiconductor Group
Designs, develops and manu
factures a wide range of standard 
and custom IC's for both industrial 
and government markets.
Electrical Engineer 
Chemical Engineer 
Materials Engineer 
Physics Major 
Computer Science Major
Write to:
Manager, Professional Staffing, 
Harris Semiconductor, Box 883, 
Melbourne, Florida 32901.
?XtT
?
X
X
HARRIS
COMMUNICATION AND 
INFORMATION PROCESSING
An I ijual Opportunity I mplmvr M/I
Harris in Florida. The state-of-the-art experience. On Campus. Soon. See Your Placement Office Today.
t
t

---------------------------------------------------

m
CMU talks about... raising the activities fee
I agree that it should be raised, because 
theres not a lot of activities on campus 
other than the fraternities. I think there 
should be a lot more available for people 
who arent in the frats. There should be 
some incentive that thats not the only 
social life. Theres a lot of good parties in 
the dorms that could be better if they had 
..more money.
Lex Arlett Mod. Lang. '81
I think raising it is a good idea, because 
if there were more money floating aound, 
it might give people some incentive for 
doing interesting things.
Tom Wood Physics/Phil. *82
I think the activities fee will need to be 
raised if we intend to continue the current 
level of student activities. However, I 
think we should, perhaps, find out if we 
are serving the majority of the student 
body with our current activities before we 
raise the fee.
Mike Inners Chem. *80
Have a question youd like asked? Send 
it to Jeanne Abmayrc/o the TARTAN.
If they were to raise the activities fee, 
wed have to get better things for our mon
ey. Right now, theres not enough partici
pation in the activities. It might be a good 
idea to raise it, because it would bring 
more publicity to the clubs, but they 
would have to have better events. We need 
to get more celebrities, like Jane Fonda, and 
not a lot of unknowns.
Jill Farrell Design *82
If theyre going to raise the activities fee, 
it would be good because it might improve 
the activities here. If theyd stay the same, 
I dont think there would be much point in 
increasing it.
Fred Mynatt AMS *81
Learn defense against rape
(Point Park College News)The sky had 
darkened considerably in the last hour, but 
she wasnt worried. She had walked this 
street a hundred times and felt safe.
Suddenly, a dark figure jumped out of a 
doorway and grabbed her from behind by 
the forearms. I just wasnt ready, she 
sobbed to police later. I never thought it 
would happen to me.
* An attack can happen to any woman. 
However, Jody Coal, health, physical edu
cation and recreation director of the 
downtown YMCA, said women in their 
late teens and early 20s and elderly women 
make up the majority of attack victims.
These women tend to be in the city 
more, where most of the attacks take 
place, explained Coal. Many young woen work and go to school there and senior 
citizens live near cities because its less 
expensive. Theyre just more vulnerable in
* the city.
Most attackers only want money or pos
sessions, said Coal. In this case, the victim 
should give up her purse or wallet. Posses
sions are not worth any physical harm, 
she said.
Accounts of sexual assaults have be
come more numerous, but Coal feels this is 
because more women are reporting these 
attacks.
If you are attacked, you should first 
scream as loudly as your lungs will permit. 
Yelling Fire will probably draw more at
tention than help. Hopefully, this will 
scare your attacker away.
If not, you may have to resort to stron
ger measures. To successfully defend your
self, however, you must remain calm and 
react quickly.
With this in mind, Coal recommends a
B e woman taking a self defense class. If your
general lifestyle has you out in the evenings 
a lot, you should know how to protect 
yourself, she said.
Most defense classes, including those 
offered by the YWCA, condition women 
to respond automatically and counter their 
attackers actions with their own: In a sit
uation like this, you dont have time to 
think, Coal said.
A frightening number of women feel 
they know enough from what they have 
heard at large, said Coal. They could be 
fooling themselves dangerously.
For instance, many believe kicking their 
attacker in the groin is the best way to 
fight him off. This is wrong. Usually, he is 
too close at this point for you to kick him 
hard enough. Such close contact will not 
enable you to break free easily either.
Also, men instinctively protect this area, 
so chances are pretty good that you 
could miss. Your attacker may then be
come more hostile when he realizes you are 
trying to hit him there.
As for twisting the nose, Youd better 
be sure youre free enough to run. You 
could be in trouble if you arent. Coal 
said.
The YWCAs self defense class instead 
teaches women to keep a coming attacker 
away by using his own momentum against 
him, according to Coal.
The students are learning to use their 
legs and feet to keep the attacker away, 
she said. The leg is one of the strongest 
parts of the body and can keep the 
attacker further away than the arms.
The course also instructs women on 
breaking grips and holds.
General conditioning to build strength 
also plays a vital part in self defense. Al
though the attackers size and strength may
Applicants' parents 
discuss CMU openhouse
Its an oasis within the city. I liked the fact 
that the faculty made a lot of personal 
appearances during the weekend. The 
public relations department here is one of 
the best. Certainly better than MIT or 
University of Chicago.
Larry Berger's mom
I like it. I was very impressed by Dean 
Kails speech. Most of the people were very 
nice.
Dominick DeMartino's mom
The weekend was very well organized. 
Cyerts talk was informative, and I was 
pleased that he made himself available to 
answer our questions.
Costa Papus's dad
Everyone was nice. Faculty is top-notch. 
Poor planning caused some conflict, and 
we were forced to miss some things.
David Woodard's dad
The overall quality of the school is impres
sive, but the grounds are not kept as well as 
I expected and some of the dorms are in 
poor shape, specifically Hammerschlag.
Robert Wolf's dad
Highly impressive. I liked the rare book 
collection in Hunt Library. CMU seems 
small enough for you to be a person as 
opposed to a number.
John Volailis' mom
EJN 77ROCfcVrglcN6W
*\A
pose a problem, Coal said, Women have 
limitations which are dictated genetically, 
but they can learn techniques that can use 
their attackers strength to his disadvan
tage.
Although no sure solution exists to pre
vent an attack, you can still practice a few 
simple precautions.
First, ask someone to walk you to your 
car or home. Never walk alone for long dis
tances, especially at night.
Vary your daily walking or jogging ha
bits, said Coal.
If you know you might walk alone, 
dont wear high heels. They can hinder you 
in running.
The same rule applies to tight clothing. 
Skimpy skirts and skin-tight pants could
hold you back if you must ilee.
Carrying a gun or knife may bring more 
harm to you than your attacker. Yet, whis
tles or small weapons, such as hat pins, 
might not help much either. A woman has 
little time to acttoo little to fumble for 
small items.
If you must walk alone, insert your keys 
between fingers. Punching your attacker 
with these can inflict a painful wound.
Coal also suggested carrying a rolled-up 
newpaper. This is a pretty hard and solid 
weapon which cant be turned against the 
woman.
But whatever you do, dont believe it 
can never happen to you. That might be 
your worst mistake.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8TARTANNovember 13, 1979
John Dean's motives in his decision to testify
by Robert Harris
(The preceding two articles on John 
Dean (1. John Deans Career Story, Tartan 
Oct. 30; 2. John Dean's Testimony, Tartan 
Nov. 6) were designed to provide a back
ground on John Dean. This concluding 
article is designed to allow the reader and 
myself to examine closely some of John 
Dean's answers of the Oct. 24 Dean 
lecture.)
Trying to edit Deans answers is a nearly 
impossible task. Buried in each response is 
the answer to the question posed and, 
additionally, an unrequested salvo directed 
at his detractors. Deans answers reflect 
the highly honed skill of a sharp lawyer.
There is the question of whether Dean 
betrayed Richard Nixon or whether 
Richard Nixon betrayed him. Just as 
important iswhy did he testify? Dean 
addressed these controversies when he 
answered Chas Sislons question during 
an interview with the TARTAN and WRCT 
on October 24: Was there one item, one 
happening, one move that you felt was so 
unethical that when you did come up to 
testify, that was the thing that stuck in 
your head, that said I have to blow the 
whistle? Dean answered:
What happened when I came forward 
is that... 1 cant reduce it to simple black 
and white. There were a lot of things that 
were pushing on me simultaneously. It 
would be nice to reduce to black and 
white. It just wasnt.
It was...Yes, I realized that I was being 
setup and being laid out there to take the 
blame for things I had no responsibility 
for. That didnt make me feel very good. 
That made me realize loyalty was such a short street and such a one way street.
I realized that no one was interested in 
my neck other than myself. I was also 
quite aware of the fact that things I was
. T i
doing was making life impossible for me. 
I was drinking more than I ever had in my 
life, going home and diving in the scotch 
bottle to help myself escape from daily 
life... and thats not a very healthy way to 
exist.
So, there were lots of things that came 
together. When they continued pushing me 
I just make it very clear to them, if and 
when the day ever did come that I had to 
say anything publicly it was going to be the 
truth. That didnt make me very popular 
within the ranks of the inner circle, but 1 
also knew that I had to look myself in 
the mirror the rest of my life and shave, 
and I dont cut myself any more and I 
dont have any trouble looking in the 
mirror.
Humility is easily detected in the tone 
of Deans voice. It may be too easily de
tected. One definitely is told by John Dean 
that John Dean has a conscience. John 
Dean isnt telling Chas Sislon that he has a 
conscience. John Dean is telling history 
that John Dean has a conscience.
Dean is also telling history that Nixon 
set him up to take the blame for the Water
gate cover-up. Dean might protest that he 
doesnt care how history treats him, but I
John Dean addresses audience at CMU. 
believe it is important not only to Dean, 
but also to the people involved and to 
the American public.
It is important to show that in the 
Nixon White House loyalty was a one 
way street that extended from Dean 
all the way to the American people.
There is the controversy whether Dean 
felt he could escape conviction had he 
decided to fight rather than plead guilty. 
There is the controversy whether Dean 
tried to save his own neck by originally 
seeking immunity. Dean sheds some light 
on these controversies when he answered 
Robert Harris nervously posed question: 
Do you think you could have fought con
viction successfully had you and Shaffer 
tried? Dean answered:Charlie (Deans lawyer) thought he 
could beat the case had I have not pleaded 
guilty; I told him from the first day that I 
went to see him that I was here to see him 
to take me through the process, because I 
was going to plead guty to the whole 
thing. I told my wife that.
This whole business of fighting for im
munity or no immunity thats raised in 
some of these books...What they dont
realize is, and Sam Dash (chief counsel to 
the Ervin Committee) is prepared to test
ify to it in the cover-up trial, and my 
lawyer was prepared to testify to it was: I 
didnt care if I got immunity or not. It was 
really irrevelant to me.
What it was... It was a holding action. 
It gave us time to see who was doing what 
and why, and we used that as a bartering 
device to keep me out of the front and to 
g find out who was going to take the case 
 and do the right thing with it.
^ Charlie happened to believe, on very 
technical reasons, that the special pros ecutors office or any prosecutors office 
^ could not indict and successfully convict 
^ me. Because what happened is I originally went in to see the first prosecutors and 
| told them the whole story (Dean is leaning 
 over now and emphasizing his words) and 
all the evidence against me became tainted 
by an accident on everybodys... it wasnt planned. It was an accident!
Gordon Strachan would later have his 
case dismissed against him for the very 
same reason cause he had gone in and ex
plained what he had done. Under circum
stances that shouldnt have been.
Charlie was convinced he could win the 
case. The prosecutors office... I must say 
that Neal would later say to me. He said, 
You know, if you had not come in here 
wed have never been able to get you in 
here. It would have maybe taken five years 
for the case to proceed and we would have 
had to forget about you, to take it through 
all the courts it would have been taken through.
But that to me was irrelevant! (Dean is 
standing up straight again) I knew I had 
admitted to doing what 1 was doing. To , 
me, to get it over and to testify as truth
fully, as honestly, and as helpfully as I 
could was more important.
To this day I feel Dean didnt answer 
my question do you think you could have 
fought conviction successfully had you and 
Shaffer tried? All 1 expected was a yes or 
no answer. Instead, Dean told me what 
his lawyer, Charles Shaffer, thought. To 
be perfectly honest, what Shaffer thought 
continued on page 12
H
C<tHP
Proceeds will be used to supply uniforms 
for the 80-member Kiltie Marching Band.
CMU Goes to the Circus!
Pittsburgh Civic Arena 
Sunday, November 18, 1979 
6:00 p.m.
Prices: Reserved - $4.00
General Admission - $3.00
Tickets Available at 
Skibo Information Desk
The CMU circus night is sponsored by the Pitts
burgh Men s Clan, the Pittsburgh Women s 
Clan, the Student Alumni Relations Council 
(SARC), and the Student Activities Office.
Y'all Come!
s
w
Let the Great'X' Haircutters 
identify the real YOU with a 
Unique Precision Haircut!
A precision cut at Great "X means 
that we cut your hair naturally  
the way that it grows. So it holds 
its shape longer and stays in place 
better than any other haircut 
you've ever had. That's why 
Great "X" has more than 100 
stores across the country ready 
to help you identify yourself.
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
HAIRCUTS
(Woch-Cut-Blow)COLORING
11OO
Mon.Tuei. Wed. 10-7 
Thurt. Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 9 4
237 Atwood Streot 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213 
687-3500
UNISEX HAIR SALON
PERMANENTS
25
NO
APPOINTMENTS

---------------------------------------------------

November 13, 1979-TAR TAN-Page 9
W man, Youre getting 
To BE A DRAG. WHEN J FlRST 
charted MU66IN6 YOU,
YOU RICK!
VI HAT NAPPE.NED TO YOU?
!iCRf lDnVMW  \Pe
1
ATTENTION!
Sophomores & 
Psychology Majors! 
Teachers College/ 
Columbia University 
announces 
ACCEL-A-YEAR
?
?
The first program?
<to offer a 
M.A.
IN PSYCHOLOGY: 
BEHAVIORAL ANALYSIS
in 2 years to students who
have completed 60 credits 
(B average or better).
?
i Save one year of?
tuition and living 
expenses
?
< Theoretical and 
clinical training
 Graduate with
marketable skills?
 Advanced training 
toward Ph. D 
programs
Write today to: 
ACCEL-A-YEAR 
Box 001
Teachers College<Columbia University 
N.Y., N.Y. 10027 
Application for Jan. & 
Sept. now being accepted
Politics and Policy
Energy and public policy
by Bob Gleeson and Chris Fostel
The most publicized energy problem of 
today is our irresponsible overdependence 
on imported oil. Although this problem 
does affect our daily lives, sometimes 
the media would have us think it is the 
only problem. Actually, only one of our 
energy sources is imported oil. Other 
sources include domestic oil, coal, natural 
gas, and nuclear, hydroelectric, and solar 
power.
Since our demand for energy is not like
ly to fall, pressure is building for these 
other sources to take on larger roles in the 
supply of energy for domestic use. Yet 
each of these alternative sources has its 
own peculiar problems, not the least of 
which is pricing. Nonetheless, the proper 
management and development of these 
other sources will be a major concern of 
the 1980s.
As part of the drive to increase efficien
cy in energy management, we can be cer
tain that government at all levels will be
come more and more involved. New govern
ment programs and agencies, hopefully 
guided by a comprehensive energy scheme, 
will take on an increasingly decisive role in 
energy policy.
Whether this-will help or hurt energy 
development is questionable. Whether it 
will happen is far less debatable. In this 
climate it should be useful to examine past 
and present attempts by governmental 
bodies to regulate or guide the supply of 
energy. It would also help to have a fuller 
understanding of some of the problems in
volved in the development of energy re
sources, if government is to guide us, then 
we should have the ability to judge where 
we are going.
For the next few weeks, this column 
will study Pennsylvanias Public Utility 
Commission as an example of governments 
attempt to regulate private energy com
panies, and also review the prospects for 
further development of the energy re
sources.
The goal of this series is to give the 
reader some tools with which these prob
lems can be explored further. The energy 
problems of today are complicated ones,
but they are not so complicated that the 
public is unable to understand them or 
have input in their resolution.
Before examining the workings of the 
PUC, the question arises: why was it 
created to begin with?
The PUC was formed because of politi
cal pressures which stem from the econo
mic nature of the utility industry. The 
economists say that this industry is one 
with decreasing costs to scale. This 
means that for all practical purposes, more 
is always cheaper to produce. For example, 
the more watts which are produced by a 
power plant, the cheaper each watt is to 
make. This relationship continues for all 
forseeable levels of production.
When this is the case, competition in the 
market place tends to lead to massively 
inefficient wars in which the public 
usually loses. A good example of this 
would be the old railroad wars. In areas 
which were easily accessible railroads laid 
track along side one another and engaged 
in fierce pricing battles. But at the same 
time they forced up prices in areas where 
they had a monopoly. This system wasted 
fortunes on duplicating service in accessi
ble areas, which people in the inaccessible 
areas paid high rates to finance.
Because of the fear of something simi
lar happening among privately owned utili
ty companies, the PUC was created to 
avoid competition in this peculiar industry. 
This would provide an orderly and rational 
structure which would best serve the public.
So goes the theory. In the next few 
weeks we will be testing out this theory to 
see how well the PUC is performing its 
task, and why.
? ????
IRON CITY
SCHLITZ
BUD
SCHMIDTS 
CHAMPALE 
STROHS 
GENESEE 
ROLLING ROCK 
SCHLITZ MALT 
BALLANTINE ALE 
MILLER LIGHT 
MICHELOB 
PABST 
MILLER 
COLT 45
GENESEE CREAM ALE 
BUSCH
SCHLITZ LIGHT
Featuring 22 Varieties Steak Subs
SERVING BEER SUNOAY 1 PM - 2 AM 
QUARTS - MUGS - PITCHERS 
CHOICE OF 6 DIFFERENT DRAFT BEERS
MILLERS. COLT 45. MOL SON ALE. LOWENBRAU DARK STROMS HEINEREN LIGHT
One different 16 oz 6 pk featured each *ee*
SCHLITZ  PABST 
SCHLITZ MALT  STROH S * ROLLING ROCK WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO ADVER
TIZE OUR LOW BEER PRICES
 SPECIAL TV fTEMS 
FRESH CUT FRENCH FRIES  PIZZA SERVED TILL 3 AM 
HOT DOGS CHOICE OF 12 DIFFERENT CONDIMENTS 
35 VARIETIES OF SANDWICHES 
-------------------- IMPORTS -----------------------
HOT DOG SHOPS, INC 
621-7388 or 621-1185
3901 FORBES AV (OAKLAND) PGH PA 15213
*BASS ALE England DORT HANSA Germany 
SAM MIGUEL PftNipmes SPATENBRAU Germany
 ST PAUU GIRL Germany 
PILSNER URQUELL C*ech GU1NESS STOUT Ireland 
DAS XX EOUIS Mexico WRZBURGER Germiy HARP LAGER Ireland 
LOWENBRAU Germany 
O'KEEFE ALE C*iada DINKEL ACKER Germany TECATE Mexico ISENBECK W Germany IRYSTALL Italy 
MACKESON England
 KIRIN PERONI Italy
 RIGNES Norway BECKS Germany HOFBRAU Germany
 ZYWIEC Poland
 KRAKUS Poland
 SUPERIOR Mexico FUSItRS Austraiha 
HEINEKEN Holland MOLSON ALE Canada PAULANER Germany 
GOSSER Austria TANKARD London
 UNION W Germany 
PALE ALE London DtNKEL Germany WARFTEINEl Germany
When does 
training stop 
the doing start?
A! Scott, we believe that the best training 
we can give you is experience in putting your 
ideas to work Since we know tha.t personal 
growth is your goal, achievement of that goal is 
realized through doing Experience comes from 
doingputting your ideas to work, enjoying respon
sibility. and accepting accountability
Each year, as determined, committed college 
grads pin us. they bring new talents with them We 
put these talents to the test immediately and willingly 
accept their challenges
Because we recognize individual differences, 
our approach is to build on your existing skillsto 
enable you to start doing
When dpes the training stop? It never does 
Scott Paper Company is an equal opportunity 
employer m/l
Contact your placement office lor informationSCOTT

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10TARTANNovember 13, 1979
AB will celebrate its 10th birthday
by Paul Karmin
The Activities Board is celebrating its 
tenth year of service to the students at 
CMU this week. They have scheduled a 
scries of events as a birthday" celebration 
throughout the week, and the public is 
invited to attend.
AB is the student-run and student fund
ed organization that provides concerts, lec
tures, movies, dances, and other program
ming to the University community. The 
Activities Board is composed ol seven semiautonomous committees that each deal 
with a specific area of programming. The 
committees include: Friday Films. Film 
Ails, Concerts, Coffeehouses, Lecturcs 
and Special Fvcnts. T.G.I.F., and Techni
cal. The AB chairperson coordinates all 
(lie committees into a unified whole. There 
is also an advisor, a secretary, and a trea
surer.
Students may have an opportunity to 
assist in determining what is jwesented to 
the campus by participating in AB. The 
small si/.c of each committee gives the 
individual student a substantial influence
in decision making.
There are also many other tangible
benefits. For example. AB people get to 
meet the performetS"-ancLparticipate in all 
phases of the event. The art of rutming a 
production is, in itself a learning exper
ience. Students handle everything from 
negotiating the contract to crowd control.
Thoughout the years, many notable
speakers and artists have appeared under 
the auspices of AB. Among these have 
been: Gene Roddenberry. Timothy Leary. 
Frank Zappa. Kool and the Gang. The
Allman Brothers, Arlo Guthrie. Billy Joel. 
Bella Ab/ug, Abba than, and Chuck Mangioiie.
The concert committee has had a knack 
for hiring musicians on the verge of fame. 
For example. Billy Joel played here in
I>72 for only S600. In 1973, another "noname. Bruce Springsteen, gave a concert 
here. Ironically. AB can't alTori to hire 
these performers today because the total 
concert budget is only SI 7.000 per year 
to cover five concerts, 
for the future. Activities Board is plan
ning to increase their knowledge of what 
students want to hear. Another priority is 
to increase the activities fee. Currently, 
most schools charge S50-S60 per year 
while CMU charges S30. As a result. AB is 
lacking the funds to be as active as they 
would like. There will be a campus refer
endum on December 5 to decide whether 
or not to leave the activities fee as it is, 
raise it S5. raise it SIO, or raise it S20 per
~ N00BIE
year. AB would like to see the S20 increase 
approved so that it will be able to afford 
higher priced performers.
AB wouid like to hear your ideas, and if 
anyone is interested in joining or submit
ting a proposal, she/he is invited to call the 
AB office at ext. 2105. stop by Skibo. 
room 103, or call Anne Witchner at ext. 
2107.
bv t.hart
Benefits include: Educational 
Stipend, All Academic Expenses, 
Professional Salary, Employee 
Benefits, Summer Employment.
Total Fellowship values range 
from $16,000 to 524,000 annually.
If youre chosen for a Hughes 
Fellowship, you will attend a selected 
university under a work-study or 
full-study plan. You'll have the choice 
of a variety of technical assignments 
through the engineering rotation 
program. You'll gain professional 
experience with full-time summer and 
part-time winter assignments in 
Hughes engineering laboratories.
Requirements: BS for Masters 
Fellowship/ MS for Engineer or 
Doctoral Fellowship/Acceptance in a * s 
Hughes-approved graduate school^
U.S. Citizenship/Selection by the 
Hughes Fellowship Committee.
For information, complete coupon 
or write today to:
Hughes Aircraft Company 
Corporate Fellowship Office 
Culver City, CA 90230,
. . TT :T
I
Date
Consider me a candidate for a Hughes 
Fellowship..
. ____
I Name
. 
.
(Please print)
Address
City State Zip
I am interested in obtaining:
? Masters ? Engineer ? Doctoral degree 
in the field of
Degrees held (or expected): 
BACHELORS DEGREE
School
Field
Grad. Dote 
MASTERS DEGREE
School
Field
Grad Date 
OTHER
r.S
U.S.
Citizenship
Required
Creating  new w wt* ipctronict 
An equql opportunity employer  AtyF/HC
100
Hughes
Fellowships
will be awarded for 
Masters/Engineer/Doctoral 
Degrees in the fields of:
Engineering
(Electrical, Electronics, Systems, Mechanical)
Computer Science 
Applied Mathematics
Physics
Aircraft 1 / *.ut\n,i n\t> I r.ll< wnhip Oflice
f.ul f.i\ / f. A 'th'y 10

---------------------------------------------------

November 13, 1979-TARTAN-Page 11
Cambodia: 'A nation is dying'
A call for the American people to help 
raise $50 million in private contributions 
to save the Cambodian people was made 
last week by Oxfam-America, the interna
tional self-help agency.
A nation is literally dying. Unless we 
act now, three and one-half million people 
in Cambodia will be dead by Christmas, 
said Jim Howard, international disaster ex
pert and Chief Technical Officer for Oxfam. 
One of the few westerners with recent first
hand experience there, Howard called the 
situation horrificworse than anything 
Ive seen in twenty years of experience 
with disasters in countries like Biafra, Ban- ' 
gladesh, and India. What we face now is the 
extinction of a nation.
In response to this crisis, Oxfam sent
its first planeload of food and emergency 
supplies in Augustthe first western aid to 
reach Phnom Penh. In the past two 
months, it has sent three planeloads of 
food and medicine, and shipped 1500 tons 
of food and vital aid by barge from Singa
pore to the Cambodian port of Kompong 
Som.
The barge was the first large-scale deliv
ery of aid from the west.
Oxfam has formed a group of twenty in
ternational voluntary agencies to coordi
nate and channel assistance into the 
country. Based on a agreement reached be
tween Oxfam and the Phnom Penh govern
ment, free access has been given to the 
western relief agencies. Oxfam and the 
government will cooperate in the extensive
This photo taken in Phnom Penh two weeks ago shows the extent of malnutrition evident among 
children in the country. The child lying on the mat died soon after this photo was taken.
Taken two weeks ago by a field worker in Phnom Penh, this photo shows the extent of damage 
to the city caused by Pol Pot and Khmer Rouge when they forcibly evacuated 2 million people in 
April, 1975.
distribution and monitoring of food and 
supplies throughout the country. No aid is 
to be given to the military.
In describing the current effort, Howard 
said the Oxfam program has two chief 
goals: The first pressing need is to feed 
the people and pull them back from the 
brink. The second is to restore the coun
trys capacity to produce food and become 
self-sufficient again.
Included in the aid program over the 
next six months will be 70,000 tons of 
rice, maize, sugar, oil, and milkpowder for 
immediate consumption, and 19,000 tons 
of grain and vegetable seeds for an early 
planting program. Also being provided by 
the consortium of international agencies 
will be diesel trucks and landrovers for 
food distribution throughout the country, 
as well as such items* as irrigation pumps, 
hoes, fish nets, pesticides, soaps, and blan
kets.
Oxfam-America is a non-profit, interna
tional development agency which funds 
self-help programs in Asia, Africa and Latin 
America, emphasizing economic and food 
self-reliance. Oxfam began in England in 
1942 as the Oxford Committee for Famine 
Relief, and has gained a global reputation 
for innovative yet realistic aid to the poor
est people of the world. Oxfam-America 
was formed in 1970 as an Independent 
U.S. associate of the British agency.
CARE offers assistance in Cambodia
CARE, the international relief 
agency, has a Task Force team of faminefeeding experts and medical personnel 
delivering high-protein food, relief kits and 
medical aid to uprooted Cambodian famine 
victims.
This aid is being distributed through 
refugee camps in Thailand.
CARE has also announced a $5- 
million worldwide fund to appeal to main
tain and expand this vital effort.
Checks or money orders should be made 
payable to CAR Fund for Cambodians 
and mailed to CARE, Kaufmanns 
Department Store, 400 Fifth Avenue, 
Pittsburgh, PA 15219. For further infor
mation, call (412) 471-7685.
today
Skibo 50
COUNTER HELP 
FOR RESTAURANT
Full or part-time.
Three different shifts available. 
9am-4pm, 4pm-9pm, 
and 9pm-4:30a.m.
Apply:
3901 Forbes Ave., Oakland 
Original Hot Dog Shop.
For careers in 
steel operations, shipbuilding, 
engineering, sales, mining, 
and researchWe need engineers who areturned on by
tou 
terns
If you want to put your 
engineering skills to the test, 
wed like to talk to you about 
our Loop Course management 
training program.
Our recruiters will be on campus: 
November 2829
Bethlehem @
You make the difference
an equal opportunity employer

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12TARTANNovember 13, 1979
Walgren speaks on government and business
by Larry Duffee
United States Congressman Doug Wal
gren, Democrat from the 18th District of 
Pennsylvania, came to Carnegie-Mellon 
University last Tuesday to address students 
of the Graduate School of Industrial Ad
ministration about the present relationship 
between government and business. Wal
gren came at the invitation of Dean Thom
as Kerr, a resident of Walgrens district 
who has worked with the Congressman in 
the past.
Walgren said that he came to the college 
with no real goals, but that I felt it was
important for students to see the limita
tions and realities of public officials. 
Walgren added, People dont have direct 
contact with officials today, and they seem 
to make them (public officials) bigger 
than they are.
The Congressman stated that he was dis
appointed with the little [sic] role of 
students in government today. When I 
was running for Congress in 1970, there 
was never any problem in attracting 
students to discussions on the Vietnam 
War. But once the Draft issue was over, 
it seemed that so few students cared 
about the future of the war.
Walgren made it clear that he was 
disappointed with the hands on atti
tude that young people have of govern
ment today. I wish it wouldnt take only 
emotional isues. to get people going. 
There are so many issues which require 
our attention: inflation and energy for
example.
Regarding Kerr, Walgren said, Tom is 
a special person. He is active, and in
terested. He fights on the side of the an
gels. The Congressman concluded saying, 
that he believes every person should have 
that type of relation with their Congress
man.Congressman Doug WalgrenJohn Dean's motives in his decision to testify
continued from page 8
was really irrelevant to me. I wanted to 
know what he, John Dean, thought.
From his answer I began wondering 
Did I grill him? I couldnt have. It wasnt 
my intention, nor is it within my capability 
to have done so. Im not that talented. 
Then why is Dean testifying to me through 
his lawyer?
The answer is obvious. Dean isnt 
testifying to me, hes still testifying to the 
whole country. There is something in 
Deans nature that compells him to do this. 
He doesnt financially need to lecture; hes 
had plenty of lucrative job offers.
Deans need to testify might be 
explained by the painful cutting he en
dured during Talmages cross-examination. 
Talmage poured salt into Deans legal 
wounds when he brought up Deans firing 
for violations of the canon of ethics from 
his first and only job in private law prac
tice (Feb. 1966). Even though Dean was 
cleared of any charges of unethical con
duct he remarked in Blind Ambition: I
was stung by the realization that it is im
possible to get clean once one is publicly 
tarred.
Dean told the truth and served his time 
for what he did wrong. He should not be 
publicly tarred, nor should he feel it 
necessary to testify to the country any 
longer.
The Intel Notebook
Careers and Technology at Intel
Focus: The Microelectronics 
Revolutionand how you can 
be part of it. 
See us on campus December 6 & 7.
Think for a minute about what microelectronics 
technology has already achieved. Yet we are 
still in the infancy of the microelectronics 
revolution. And no company is doing more to 
speed it than Intel.
CHOOSE YOUR AREA OF 
INVOLVEMENT.
Were an acknowledged leader in four major 
product areas: semiconductor memories and 
microprocessors, and microcomputer systems 
and memory systems. Plus were extending 
our leadership into data-base management.
Our success has created a wide variety of 
career opportunities in engineering, technical 
marketing, production management and 
planning, and finance.
FOUR GREAT LOCATIONS.
Weve built our facilities where the quality of 
life is high, because only in such places can we 
attract the highly skilled, highly motivated 
people we need. Thats why we can offer you 
Californias San Francisco Peninsula;
Portland, Oregon; Phoenix, Arizona; or Austin, 
Texas, each with its own intriguing lifestyle.
SIGN UP NOW.
If youre about to receive a degree in electrical 
engineering, computer science, solid-state 
physics or chemical engineering, and youd
like to help us change the way the world lives, 
wed like to talk with you. Stop by your place
ment office to sign up for interviews during our 
visit. Or if youll be unable to see us on 
campus, write to any of our locations:
California
Intel College Relations 
3065 Bowers Avenue 
Santa Clara, CA 95051
Oregon
Intel College Relations 
3585 S.W. 198th Avenue 
Aloha, OR 97005
Arizona
Intel College Relations 
5000 W. Williams Field Road 
Chandler, AZ 85224
Texas
Intel MRI/College Relations 
12675 Research Boulevard 
Austin, TX 78759
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/H.
.J

---------------------------------------------------

Sea Level to bring fine jazz-rock fusion to CMU
by Ted Smits
On Friday, November 16 at 8 PM, 
Activities Board Coffeehouse and Concerts 
will present Sea Level, with special guest 
Nancy Parker, in the Skibo Ballroom.
After the legendary Allman Brothers 
Band broke up in 1976, the principal 
members went in different directions. 
Dickey Betts moved on to form his Great 
Southern band while bassist Lamar Wil
liams and keyboardist Chuck Leavell 
formed a jazz-rock fusion group called 
Sea Level.
The bands first album was largely 
experimental as the group strived to create 
a definitive sound. Before their second al
bum was released j two new musicians, 
guitarist Davis Causey and multi-instru
mentalist, Randall Bramlett, were added to 
the group. This caused an expansion of 
the groups musical styles and helped them
gain a much larger following. The dif
ferent influences and musical diversity of 
the band has become one of its greatest, 
commercial assets. The influences in the 
band stretch from rock to jazz, from 
classical to basic rhythm and blues.
Cats On the Coast was the title of their 
second, highly successful album. A pro
motional tour of the United States and 
Europe resulted in a good deal of critical 
acclaim and an ever widening amount of 
fans. Their fine performance at the Montreaux Jazz Festival in Switzerland was 
especially praised. In this festival and 
others like it, Sea Level found itself 
playing with other jazz-rock bands such 
as the Dixie Dregs.
While they appreciate playing in front 
of larger crowds and gathering! wider 
exposure, Sea Level still prefers to perJimmy Nells and Davis Causey of Sea Level, who will appear in the Skibo Ballroom this Friday at 8PM
form in a smaller more intimate atmos
phere. On their last tour Sea Level even 
took the uncommon step of turning their 
volume down. As Chuck Leavell put it 
the improvement was amazing. The 
dynamics of the music are so much better 
when youre not blowing it out.
This current tour features material from 
their recent albums as well as some jazz 
and rock classics. The band has even been 
known to reel off an occasional Allman 
Brothers tune now and then. Recently 
ex-Wings drummer Joe English joined the 
band. The group is now well rounded and
commercial and critical success. Regardless 
of what youre looking for in this band, the 
fine acoustics and club like size of the 
Skibo Ballroom should contribute heavily 
to making this an enjoyable evening.
Opening the show will be comedian 
Nancy Parker. A member of the new 
generation of comedians, she has appeared 
frequently on television and is slowly 
gaining a following from her numerous 
performances at colleges and small clubs. 
Tickets for the concert are $4.00 with 
student I.D. and $5.00 for the general 
public and are available at the Skibo
is trying to break into a level of total Information Desk.
Feiffer's play lacks laughs
Comedienne Nancy Parker will open for Sea Level this Friday in the Ballroom.
by Bob Henry
I guess if you like the dry humor of the 
cartoon strips of Jules Feiffer you might 
like the Fine Line Theater Companys pro
duction of his Hold Me! at the Lion Walk 
Performing Arts Center at 420 N. Craig St.
Ensemble begins season on good note
by Timothy LeVan
Bravo Baroque Ensemble! Their concert 
last Wednesday evening showed a great deal 
of professionalism and potential. The be
ginning of the season is well begun and 
the remainder is anxiously awaited.
The Brandenburg Concerto No. 3 by' 
Bach gave the program a due, yet some
what intonation-infected, beginning. The 
third violin was specifically guilty, while 
the entire viola section kept my ear in 
constant hope to hear an agreed-upon 
note. A thoroughly meticulous tuning be
fore a concert is of greatest importance.
James Beal, tenor, followed the Con
certo with an intimate, empathetic per
formance of the Benedictus Aria from 
Bachs Mass in B minor.
Istvarf Jaray conducted the first two 
selections with ample knowledge of the 
material. He provided the musicians with 
a stability and assurance which encourages 
a fine musical performance.
A stilted Concerto Grosso Op. 6 No. 6 
by Corelli brought the program to a vir
tual standstill.
Although the Corelli may be a less ma
ture work as compared to the previous 
(programmatically) Bach works, I believe 
its dullness was due to a somewhat outof-grasp understanding of the essence of 
the work.
Bernard Black, trumpet, gave a superb 
performance of the Telemann Concerto 
for Trumpet in D and String Orchestra.
The control and musicality of his playing 
was exceptional.
Ein feste Burg ist unser Gott (A 
Mighty Fortress is Our God) by Bach 
provided a delightful second half of the 
program.
Although the orchestra was frequently 
overpowering, some fine singing still came 
through.
The opening chorus was not especially 
awe-inspiring, but did reveal a hint of vocal 
insufficiences which were reinforced as the 
work progressed.
One basic problem consisted of a too 
spread soprano sound which was easily 
covered by the orchestra. In singing over 
the orchestra, the soprano section needs to 
cultivate the idea of bright vowels, facialmask resonance and a melody line with 
the ping which allows it to carry over 
the orchestra. Without it, they are lost, 
and most definitely outnumbered.
The choral mezzo-soprano section was 
adequate, although lacking the full-bodied
sound of an excellent mezzo.
Amy Gluck, soprano, and Gregory 
Kirsopp, bass, revealed only a passable 
duet. Ms. Gluck was party to the soprano 
problem mentioned above, while Mr. 
Kirsopp sang technically correctly but 
without the bass virile sound which 
will develop with age.
Robert Ferrier, bass, sang the Recitativo 
with a large, true bass sound which was a 
delight to listen to.
Carolyn Mallory, soprano, followed 
with an aria showing her facility in singing 
with a bright, vibrant sound which was 
very pleasing to hear. Perhaps more voices 
like hers could beef-up the soprano 
section .#
Following another chorus, pity entered 
my heart. A solemn Recitativo was sung 
by David Knapp, tenor. Why solemn? 
Because Mr. Knapp is a vocally young 
singer who should not have been per
mitted to sing what he sang. Musicians 
are understandably at many different 
levels of development, and one should not 
be unduly, and cruelly, subjected to that 
which is unquestionably out of reach.
Some poor decision-making on the part 
of the conductor prompted this. The con
cert stage ought not be a place of humili
ation of the young performer.
Myran Paris, alto, and Guy Russo, 
tenor, brought the performance back to 
vital life with their duet. Ms. Paris, a true 
mezzo, sang with simply beautiful sounds 
while Mr. Russo complimented her with 
equally excellent singing.
Mr. Russo was the marvelous tenor, 
by the way, which pulled the other tenors 
along during chorus parts. It was a joy to 
hear a wonderful young tenor and alto 
work so well together and support one 
another with such sensitivity.
A full-bodied, sonorous chorale ended 
the cantata, and concert, with appro
priate pomp.
Unfortunately for me, I get only a moder
ate kick from Feiffers strips and I got a 
much smaller kick from Fine Lines show.
Hold Me! is a combination of one-liners, 
skits, and short sketches that try to enter
tain while talking about modem urban life. 
There are the same wry comments on love, 
female-male relationships, and loneliness 
that populate Feiffers comic strips, and his 
famous dancing lady, along with her mov
ing celebrations of the seasons, love, or her 
changing mood, has many appearances in 
the show.
And in a revue such as Hold Me!, every 
bit does not have to work. Since there are 
so many, one of them can fail, but were 
on to the next one right away and we dont 
mind the brief lapse in humor. Fine Lines 
show, however, has more unsuccessful 
moments than successful ones, and the 
jokes that work are more a respite from 
boredom than anything else.
Part of the problem lies with Feiffers 
script - it demands stand-up comedians 
with an excellent comic sense and timing 
more than it demands actors. While the 
performers do an overall credible job, too 
often they dont quite give the subtle hu
mor the touch or delivery it needs. And 
Fine Line misses a chance by not using mu
sic, lighting, sets, costumes to give the pro
duction a theatrical vitality that would 
make it more entertaining and appealing.
There are moments of hilarity, however. 
In one skit a male character bends down as 
if he were talking to a very short person 
and says, Son, I dont know how to tell 
you...Youre not working out. And no 
doubt the show will get tighter and funnier 
as the cast gets accustomed to doing it be
fore an audience. Hold Me! will play 
every Friday and Saturday nights during 
November. For information call the Lion 
Walk Performing Arts Center at 621-7887.

---------------------------------------------------

R
s
AB CONCERTS AND COFFEE HOUSE
presents
SEA LEVEL
with special guest comedienne
NANCY PARKER
Friday November 16th
8:00 PM
in Skibo Ballroom
Tickets on Sale at 
Skibo Info. Desk
$4.00 with CMU Student ID
$5.00 Public
FUNDED BY ACTIVITIES FEE
TITITlTITIYITIYITITITITiTlVlTTTVTvTVTYIYrriVIVIVIVIVIVIVIV

---------------------------------------------------

-November 13, 1979TARTANPage 15
***********
Joseph Pilato (left foreground) and Tom Savini in the climax from Effects, to be shown at the Kings 
Court Theatre on November 15th and 18th at midnight.
CHRISTMAS POSTAL DEADLINES
INTERNATIONAL MAIL  OUTBOUND
AirmailDestinationAir ParcelsLetters/CardsSurface
North & Northwest Africa...............___ 28 Nov..........8 Dec...........10 Nov.
Australia...............................................___ 28 Nov...........1 Dec...........27 Oct.
Caribbean W. Indies.........................___ 12 Dec...........14 Dec...........13 Nov.
Central South America....................1 Dec...........10 Nov.
Europe .................................................------ 8 Dec...........12 Dec...........10 Nov.
Far East.................................................___ 8 Dec............12 Dec...........27 Oct.
Mid East...............................................___ 28 Nov..........5 Dec...........1 Nov.
Southeast Asia....................................... 30 Nov..........1 Dec...........27 Oct.
Southeast Africa................................___ 28 Nov...........8 Dec...........27 Oct.
West Africa............... ......................___ 28 Nov..........8 Dec...........27 Oct.
U. S. MAIL FIRST CLASS DEADLINE DEC. 15. 1979 
PARCEL POST DEADLINE DEC. 10. 1979
Effects is taut, well-done psychological thriller
fessionally and the acting is up to par with 
most major releases. The special effects 
used in Effects were created by Pitts
burghs Tom Savini (Martin, Dawn of the 
Dead) who also has a supporting role in 
the film. Effects is a very effective psy
chological horror story, which brings to 
mind other films ol the same genre, such as 
Psycho and Diabolique.
The Image Works was founded in 1973 
by CMU graduates Dusty Nelson. Pat Buba. 
and -Min Harrison, all three graduating 
from the Drama department with masters 
in film and TV production. Effects, 
based on a novel by William H. Mooney, 
was written and directed by Nelson, co
produced and edited by Buba. and exec
utively producedby Harrison, who also 
stars in the picture as the demented direc
tor. Lacey Bickel. Effects will be shown 
at the Kings Court Theatre on November 
15th and 18th at midnight.
by Alan Spero
The Image Works, A Pittsburgh-based 
film production company that specializes 
in industrial, educational, and documen
tary films, has just released its first feature 
length movie, an engrossingly bizarre psy
chological thriller entitled Effects.
Effects is an uncomfortably twisting, 
multi-layered horror story about the film
ing of a low-budget demonic possesion 
movie called Something's Wrong," made 
on location in a secluded area of Pennsyl
vania. The actors and crew dont realize
that while they.'re making the picture, 
a hidden film crew is videotaping all their 
off-screen action for another movie 
entitled Duped. Both films are under 
the direction of Lacey Bickel, who plans 
on using real murders in the horror film 
instead of special effects to create the ulti
mate snuff film, in which none of the 
actors and the crew survive but himself.
Effects works on several levels. It is 
first a psychological study of Lacey Bickel, 
a small time rich kid movie director who 
inherited all his money when his parents'
private plane mysteriously exploded. He is 
the vilest character in the movie, but he 
is also the only one who understands the 
entire situation. The female gaffer and the 
male lead of Something's Wrong," played 
by Susan Chapek and Bernard McKenna, 
respecitvely, are aware of Bickels plans 
but don't realize that they, too, are 
intended victims of it.
The two most decent and moral charac
ters, the female lead of Something's 
Wrong, and the camera man. have no idea 
that theyre being used until it's too late.
The movie is effectively uncomfortable 
without being overly violent because, 
although the audience sees only the test
ing of the ghastly special effects used in 
Something's Wrong, they know full well 
that the actors are going to experience 
them later on during the actual filming.
The complicated plot and filming 
techniques are handled smoothly and pro***********
It's time to order next semester's Activities Board films. The best way the Thurs
day Film Arts and Friday Films Committee can know what the campus wants to 
see is through questionnaires and surveys. Fill out the form below and drop it off 
at the information desk before Tuesday, Nov. 20. You are also invited to attend a 
general film meeting on Tuesday, Nov. 20, at 7:30pm in Skibo room (11).
Thursday Film Arts brings art films to the campus with the godl of providing intellectual stimulation and 
aesthetic enjoyment. Documentaries, foreign films, avantgarde, classics, genre films, and the unique are what 
Thursday Film Arts presents to its discriminating audience.
For the Spring 1980 series a theme is needed. Suggestions for a full semester theme, half and half theme, mini 
director's series, or whatever suggestions you have are welcome. A few possibilities are listed below to give an 
idea of what is needed. Either choose from the list below or write in your ideas! (two choices please)
"The Effects of War 
"Social Decay"______
American Genre Films '"Urban-Rural Conflicts
"The Neo-Realists' _______
"The Moral, the Immoral, the Amoral''
"A Pot Pourri of Classics" 
"Pasolini Films"______
"Commonman Heroes"
"The International View of America
"Robert Altman Series" with a lecture
Friday Films brings popular and recently released films such as "Animal House' and The Muppet Movie' to 
campus. Below are listed the current releases; check the three you would like most to see:
ANIMAL HOUSE_____
THE MUPPET MOVIE 
THE INLAWS________
JUST YOU AND ME KID 
UP IN SMOKE_______
THE DEER HUNTER
SUPERMAN
_ DRACULA 
HAROLD AND MAUDE
For a change of pace, several times a semester we offer such things as a 3-D movie or a movie festival in Skibo 
Ballroom. Suggestions for Spring semester are:
A Cartoon Festival-------
A Night of Woody Allen Films
Science Fiction Films in the Ballroom
WHAT ARE YOUR SUGGESTIONS?
I A.B.FILMS* A.B.FILMS* A.B.FILMS* A.B.FILMS* A.B.FILMS* A.B.FILMS 
1 * A.B. FILMS* A.B. FILMS* A.B. FILMS* A.B. FILMS* A.B. FILMS* A.B.
i FILMS* A.B.FILMS* A.B. FILMS* A.B.FILMS* A.B.FILMS* A.B. FILMS*
(Funded by Student Activities Pee)
ncui. rtfr-i R a ~ C\  R Ri R  R" "Rr iRr iY icr ' *i*
* *  Please be specific  * *
 about film titles 

---------------------------------------------------

la1a
By Audrey Monjonie
I do not often find a book which I can 
open to any page, read a paragraph or two, 
and walk away alternatingly happy, sad, or 
very puzzled. With novels, a paragraph 
wont do any good, and short stories arent 
much better.
Not so with Parables of Kierkegaard 
(Princeton University Press, 1978). This 
tiny book, edited by Thomas C. Oden, 
manages to contain almost 90 of what 
Oden feels are the most memorable of 
those images, metaphors, and compact 
tales which Kierkegaard used throughout 
his works to help explain his ideas and 
philosophies. It is also a scholarly work, as 
Oden indexes many of Kierkegaard's 
other parables as well as placing those that 
he chose within their contextual frame
work.
The idea of a parable as a vehicle for 
philosophic illustration is certainly nothing 
new, but the wonder of Kierkegaards 
meaning filled stories lies in his ability to 
grasp what makes a parable. As is usually 
the case, an example is the best way to 
make things clear:
Most men pursue pleasure with such 
breathless haste that they hurry past it. 
They fare as did that dwarf who kept 
guard over a captured princess in his 
castle. One day he took a midday nap. 
When he woke up an hour later, the 
princess was gone. Quickly he pulled on his 
seven-league boots ; with one stride he was 
far beyond her.
Three qualities are apparent in this 
parable . First, there is an imagined situa
tion (here a bit sexist, I might add, but he 
was writing in the mid-nineteenth century). 
This situation might be fanciful, but it 
must always have some correspondence 
with human experience; although most 
people do not guard captured princesses in 
castles, the fairy-tale environment is 
familiar to everyone raised in the Western
8:30. Thats when Weather Reports 
live excitement begins.
8:30. Its a new album-set by the most 
adventurous expbfefs in electric 
music. Featuring three sides 
recorded live and one side of 
entirely new studio recordings.
An event you 
cant miss. On 
ARC Records 
Hand Tapes.
ALONE AND PREGNANT?
A caring, confidential friend, 
LIFELINE, DOWNTOWN PITTSBURGH 
562-0543. Free Pregnancy Testing. 
Evening Hours Available
More Taste Than Money? 
Discover,*?Pittsburgh on a budget.
S2.95
at
CAM PUS ATLANTIC 
BOOKSTORES
*4* .Kierkegaard's ideas explained
'AVAILABL. AT. YOrR FAVORIT. R.CORD STOR."
ARt:' is a trademark of the American Recording Company.  1979 CBS Inc.
Page 16TARTANNovember 13, 1979
Secondly, a mini-denouement occurs, 
forming a bridge between the imagined 
situation and the philosophy of the 
parable. This resolution is often what 
makes people remember the tale itself; 
after all, how many of us forget the Good 
Samaritan stopping on the road?
The third quality, the meanings of the 
parable itself, is what makes Kiekegaard so 
penetrating. His parables are seldom final 
statements in themselves; believing that 
The truth exists only in becoming, 
Kierkegaards fables possess a kind of 
lingering intangibility. Instead of fading 
into an oblivion of intellectual understand
ing, the parables remain alive because, as 
Oden writes in his introduction, Kieke
gaard hoped to (and succeeds) in drawing 
his reader into more profound extensions 
of self-awaieness. . . into a more funda
mental affirmation of oneself as an 
unresolveable tension between possibility 
and necessity, finitude and infinitude, 
body and spirit.
Not surprisingly, Kierkegaard has a par
able for this idea of becoming:
Suppose a man were assigned the task of 
entertaining himself for an entire day, and 
he finishes this task of self-entertainment 
as early as noon: then his celerity would 
not be meritorius. So also when life consti
tutes the task. To be finished with life 
before life has finished with one, is 
precisely not to have finished the task.
Alloy begin season
Dance Circuit will begin a new season 
of modern dance with joint performances 
by THE LIFTBRIDGE LEGACY and the 
PITTSBURGH DANCE ALLOY. Pro
duced by the Alloy, Dance Circuit is a 
series of studio concerts featuring the work 
of small modern dance companies. THE 
LIFTBRIDGE LEGACY and the PITTS
BURGH DANCE ALLOY will perform on 
Friday, November 16 and Saturday, Nov
ember 17 at 8:00 p.m. The concerts will 
be held in the Trees Hall Dance Studio, 
Allequippa and Darragh Streets, on the 
University of Pittsburgh campus. Admis
sion is $2.50 and $2.00 for students. For 
further information about Dance Cir
cuit, call the ALLOY at 624 4395.
WEATHER REPORT 
0:30including Btrdland Brown Street The Orphan Black Market Scarlet Woman
Co-produced by Jaco Pastorius Assistant Producer: Wayne Shorter 
Columbia" is a trademark of CBS Inc Produced by Zawmul.
Distributed by Columbia Retords
Comissiona to direct Symphony
Keep Red Cross ready.
Sergiu Comissiona, Music Director of the Baltimore and Houston Symphonies, will lead the 
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra in subscription concerts on November 15,16, and 18 at Heinz 
Hall. On the program are Mahlaer's Symphony No. 5 and Mozart's 
Concerto for Flute and Harp, with soloists Bernard Goldberg, principal flutist with 
the Symphony, and Gretchen Van Hoesen, principal harpist. The Mozart Concerto will 
feature cadenzas composed especially for these performances by Pittsburgh Symphony 
Music Director Andre Previn. Concert times are 8pm. on Thursday, 8:30pm. on 
Friday, and 2:30pm. on Sunday. Students and senior citizens may purchase available 
"Rush tickets (3$) at the Heinz Hall Box Office 15 minutes before each performance.

---------------------------------------------------

November 13, 1979-TARTAN-Page 17
New guide to Pittsburgh dining a good bargain
bc Kfnwp e1wgwpIn the introduction to this column a 
few weeks ago I mentioned that I would 
occasionally include an article on other 
food related items of interest to my readers. 
This week Ive decided to change the pace 
and do a review on a newly 
released, unique guide to the 
Pittsburgh scene with a special 
emphasis on restaurants. Poor 
\ Man's Guide to Pittsburgh is 
a helpful implement ... for 
the city dweller with more taste than money. 
It was created by a local resident, Dorothy 
Miller, who descibes her motives for writing 
it as  a love for our city and a desire for it 
to be noted as someplace special. In the 
preface she says ...Get out and discover 
your city and the places which are really 
making Pittsburgh somplace special. One 
may be discouraged by the price of $2.95 ,but 
it is well worth the amount, which can easily 
be saved by following the guidelines provided 
within.
The guide provides suggestions on when to 
go, what to order, what to wear, and much 
more in order to take advantage of gourmet 
bargains. All of this valuable information can 
be obtained from our campus and area book
stores, and newsstands, or by writing New 
Pittsburgh Publication, Box 16150, 
Pittsburgh, PA 15242 (adding 50 cents for 
postage).
The real value of this guide, as I see it, 
is in its attempt to incorporate the dining 
place with the surrounding area or another 
event, making the trip a totally memorable 
experience. For example, a special day trip 
to the Scaife Museum is planned with 
brunch or a snack at the Gallery Cafe 
followed by a delightful stroll through the 
museum. With the meal, admission, and a 
post card as a momento the whole afternoon 
will cost you only $4.79.
Another suggestion for seeing more of
our fascinating city is a brown bagged excur
sion to the top of Mount Washington via the 
Duquesne Incline, a breath taking adventure 
for less than $5.
Many of her suggested places are unknown 
to a lot of Pittsburghers, yet they are the 
kind of places many residents and visitors
seek. Brandy's -Meeting, Eating, and 
Drinking Place, an all-night restaurant that is 
open 24 hours on weekends with disco 
dancing as an added attraction. The 
vegetarians taste buds are satisfied by 
Cornucopia,' while the German blood in us is 
stimulated by Maxs on the North Side.
If you are looking for something ... 
designed to help you discover the charm and 
atmosphere of New Pittsburgh places youve
heard about but have been too cautious to 
visit on a budget, then make the Poor 
Man's Guide to Pittsburgh number one on 
your shopping list.
* DO YoU HAVE A CHEVROLET CHEVETTE THATfe NOT ALL CLEANED UP VET?
I WANT HER TO 
THINK I
OWN IT. "
$1^95
s
200 No-Charge Miles
(Extra miles 20C each) 
Chevette or similar.
Available 8:00 a.m. Friday til 
5:00 p.m. Monday.
You pay for gas and return car 
to renting location. Rate nondiscountable 
and subject to 
change with
out notice.
Specific cars 
subject to 
availability.
682-1444
4621 Forbes Ave. 
(Hess Exxon)
National Car Rental
We offer S & H Green __.
Stamp certificates on Ij^/I
rentals in all 50 U S states
We feature GM cars like this Chevrolet Chevette
TGIF ON SATURDAYI
COUNT BACK 
TEN
Come dance, listen, and party 
to the hits of the I970's!
SATURDAY. NOVEMBER 17th 
9:00 PM SKIBO BALLROOM
FREE!
Funded by Students Activities Fee.

---------------------------------------------------

UFS UPDATE
UNIVERSITY FOOD SERVICE

---------------------------------------------------

To call our 21-13 victory over a stub
born Theil team last Saturday an important 
one would be like referring to the discov
ery of fire as a cute idea; or labeling mans 
walk on the moon as an interesting achieve
ment.
The Tartans upending of the Tomcats 
not only earned CMU its third straight 
Presidents Athletic Conference crown; it 
also marked the first time in the history of 
the school that any of its football teams 
ever posted an undefeated, untied regular 
season. The closest any had come was the 
1954 squad, which won seven consecutive 
games before tying Lehigh, 13-13, in the 
season finale.
In addition, Saturdays win all but as
sures the 9-0 Tartans the right to host at 
least the first round of the NCAA Division 
III play-offs, which begin Novemberl7. 
According to the latest NCAA ratings, 
Caoch Chuck Klausings team is ranked 
second in the nation behind Wittenberg.
The home field advantage helped CMU 
upset favored Dayton University 24-21 in 
overtime, during the first round of the 
1978 play-offs; the Tartans then lost on 
the road to eventual-champion BaldwinWallace the next weekend.
The Tartans final victory of the 1979 
regular season was the hardest one to earn. 
Thiel came into the game as the number
two team in the PAC at 5-1, and still 
with a chance to capture one-half of the 
conference crown. They played as though 
the national championship was on the line.
That the game would be a hard fought, 
physical battle was made painfully clear to 
the partisan CMU crowd in the middle 
of the first quarter when senior running 
back Rick Leaman was upended while 
scampering along the sidelines and landed 
on his left forearm, breaking two bones, 
and thereby ending a solid four-year career 
as a Tartan.
The Tomcats also harassed senior 
quarter-back Bob Kennedy all afternoon, 
limiting the nationally-ranked offensive 
threat to just 10 yards on 15 carries and 
five of sixteen pass completions for 43 
yards.
Fortunately for the Tartan offense, 
however, senior running back Bob Gasior 
turned in his usual steady job, gaining 61 
yards and three touchdowns. Meanwhile, 
Perry Colosimo, Leamans replacement, 
proved a better than adequate fill-in, rush
ing for 78 yards on 20 carries.
But the key to the Tartan victory, as 
it has been for so many games this season, 
was the Plaid Curtain defense, which 
bent a bit in the first half but recovered in 
time to shut out the Tomcats in the second 
half. Leading the defense was senior safety
Gusty Sunseri, whose consistent play all 
afternoon earned him PAC Player of the 
Week honors - making him the first 
defensive player selected in 1979. 
????????????
Bulletin:
Carnegie-Mellons long awaited second 
season officially begins this Saturday as 
Coach, Chuck Klausings squad will host 
7th ranked Minnesota-Morris in the quar
ter-finals of the NCAA Division III Foot
ball Playoffs. CMU received a bid to the 
playoffs on the strength of their unde
feated regular season NCAA poll. Peren
nial power Wittenberg of the rugged 
Ohio Athletic Conference was the only 
team ranked ahead of the Tartans. The 
winner of the CMU vs. Minn-Morris game 
will battle the Dubuque vs. Ithaca survivor.
Kick-off for this Saturdays game at 
Tech Field will be at 1:30 PM.
Tickets for Sturdays NCAA Div. Ill 
football game at Tech Field featuring 
Camegie-Mellon against Minnesota-Morris 
are on sale this week in the athletic office 
(room 102, Mrs. Goldberg). Because this 
game is sponsored by the NCAA and not 
CMU, there will be an admission charge of 
two dollars for students and three dollars 
for everyone else. Tickets will also be sold 
on Saturday at Tech Field.
NCAA DIVISION III PLAYOFF PAIR-OFFS
Dubuque
Ithaca
Widener 
Baldwin-Wallace
Millersville 
Wittenberg
(Nov. 24) 
(Semi-finals)
(Nov. 24) 
(Semi-finals)
Dec 1
Amos Alonzo Stag Bowl 
Phoenix City, Alabama
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
Playoff-bound Tartans to face Minn. Morris
1. Wittenberg
2. CARNEGIE-MELLON
3. Dubuque
4. Widener
5. Baldwin-Wallace
6. Ithaca
7. Minnesota Morris
8. Millersville State
Offensive review"Athlete of the week"
Tartans Go Bananas Over Minnesota Morris - in what has become somewhat of a tradition, the 
Tartans will once again depend on this week's TARTAN "Athlete of the Week to help them 90 ape 
over Minnesota Morris in this weeks Division III quarterfinal.
PAC honors
For the first time in the 79 season, a 
defensive player has been selected as the 
Presidents Athletic Conference Player of 
the Week.
Carnegie-Mellon University defensive 
back Gus Sunseri claims the honor, after 
his performance helped lead the Tartans to 
a season-ending and title-clinching 21-13 
decision over Thiel Collge.
Ranked third in total tackles on the 
Tartans nationally-renown defense en
tering the contest, Sunseri saved his best 
for last, emerging again as one of the 
leaders of the Plaid defense.
The 5-11, 175-pounders fourth quarter 
interception thwarted a Thiel scoring drive, 
giving him a total of six thefts in seven 
loop contests this season, enough to lead 
the circuit in that category.
In additon, Sunseri, coach Chuck 
Klausings defensive captain, ended in 
second place on the campaign in puntreturns, averaging 7.7 yards per return on 
12 attempts.
A senior, Sunseri is a graduate of 
Pittsburghs Central Catholic High School.
NCAA DIVISION III FINAL REGULAR 
SEASON RANKINGS
by Ronnie Ben-Aron
When analyzing any team, the most 
important thing is their ability to score. 
Even with the Tartans Plaid Curtain De
fense, if there was no effective offense our 
season would have ended ten days ago 
and we wouldnt be playing this Saturday. 
To score, a team must have a quarterback 
who can handle himself in any situation.
In Coach Klausings Veer Offense there 
is the added pressure of having to run 
well. Few people could handle this as well 
as senior, Robert Kennedy. Kennedys 
offensive statistics are incredible! He has 
rushed 177 times for 446 yards and 6 
touchdowns and completed 67 out of 121 
passes (55.4%) for 1059 yards and 10 TD 
passes. All this after an injury riddled junior 
year in which he was still the number two 
quarterback in the conference. Head Coach 
Chuck Klausing described him well as an 
excellent leader who runs and passes 
well. He is the biggest breakaway threat 
on the team, he turned a broken play into 
a 62 yard touchdown against Hiram in the 
third game of the season. He was named 
PAC Player of the Week following that 
contest.
The second-string quarterback who 
will inherit the starters role as soon as the 
last game is played this year (in Alabama!), 
is sophomore, Joe Stark. At 64, Stark is 
3 inches taller than Kennedy and those 
extra inches allow him to see over 
defenders heads and complete passes which 
otherwise would be batted down. Although 
he does not have Kennedys speed, his 
strength makes him a dangerous runner.
The head coach would have liked to get him 
into the game more. The offense usually 
toyed with the opposition for the first 
three quarters before exploding in the 
fourth. In the second game of the yeai 
against Ohio Wesleyan, Stark ran for one 
touchdowm and threw for another.
The second most important position in 
the Veer is the fullback. It is his job to get 
the tough yardage inside the tackles. The 
position is manned by a Robert Newhouse 
type player in that he is not exceptionally 
big but his low center of gravity and great 
strength make him tough to put down. 
Last year Bob Gasior 143 times for 
512 yards and 11 touchdowns. He was the 
top back in the conference. This year he 
carried the ball 195 times for 645 yards. 
He scored 15 touchdowns which rank him 
among the top scorers in the nation. When 
the senior fullback is not running he is 
usually blocking for the tailback or the 
quarterback and he does it very well
Gasiors successor will be Jeff Harrisoi 
who has spelled him the last two years. This 
year the big junior carried 42 times foi 
180 yards and a touchdown. His 4.3 yard 
per carry is almost a yard better than 
Gasiors average.
The tailback position is shared by Senior 
Rick Leaman who unfortunately suffered a 
fracture of his left arm in last weeks finale 
against Thiel, and has carried the ball foi 
the last time in his illustrious college career 
In his sophomore year he was the Tartans 
leading ground gainer and followed it up 
with an injury riddled year in which he saw 
continued on page 20

---------------------------------------------------

NEED CREDIT? send for THE CREDIT GAME
Too young to borrow7 
New in town/no references?
Erase bad debt records
Skip bills without ruining credit
Receive loans within weeks of beginning this program
Information on updated credit laws and legislation
Your rights under the Federal Credit Acts
^vcolrto WALL STREET PUBLISHING
SOLVE ALL 
THESE 
CREDIT 
PROBLEMS 
with
THE CREDIT GAME
CO
303 5TH AVE.
SUITE 1306
NEW YORK, NY 10016
"Tired of being without credit, or up to your neck in 
'minimum fwyments'? With this book you will learn how 
to make the S300 billion credit industry jump at your 
command."
ONLY"$5795
(N V resident* add 8i Sales Tax)
Enclosed !s S 
Name ...
Address ____
City _______
Books
State
Allow 3 weeks tor delivery.
Spotlight on Tartan offensive backs and receivers
Page 20-TARTAN-November 13, 1979------------------- / --------------------------------------------------
CMU runners go to Nationals
The national qualifying meet held last 
Saturday at Lebanon Valley College in 
Lebanon, Pa., yielded some good news for 
CMU cross-country fans. Both Craig Woolheater and Dario Donatelli qualified for 
the Nationals which will be held in Little 
Rock, Iowa next Saturday. Woolheater
NROTCSOPHOMORES AND JUNIORS. Applications ore being accepted for scheduled flight training upon conferment of college degree. A battery of flight aptitude tests will be given at a future date on campus with those successful candidates offered orientation flights in o high-performance, stunt aircraft. Lucrative starting salary benefits for those individuals selected for the program plus a position in the naval reserves. For future test dates and more program information, call or rite Mr. Jeff Kranz, 1000 Liberty Avenue, Suite 711,f Pittsburgh, PA 15222. Telephone 800/242-3776.
finished in fifth place while Donatelli 
capped the eighth spot.
CMU failed to qualify for the finals, 
however, as the competition proved too 
strong. In muddy conditions, Haverford 
College ran away with the team title de
feating 29 other teams in the process. 
Millersville State, Frostburg, Gettysburg, 
and Glassboro State, rounded out the top 
five. PAC champs, Allegheny College, 
could manage only ninth place. Individual 
standings were as follows:
1. Sheley, Haverford
2. Gavin, Frostburg
3. Krouse,Glassboro
4. Homboe,F&M
5. Woolheater, CMU 
8. Donatelli, C-MU
TO THE 
AIRPORT? 
-RIDE THE 
APHIO 
SHUTTLEBUS
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 21
Leaving from:
MOR.WOOD ARD.NS CONN.R ALL
11:45 am 12:00 NOON2:15 pm 2:30 pm4:45 pm 5:00 pm
PRICE $2.50
Tickets available at the 
Skibo Information Desk
W.DN.SDAY, NOV.MB.R 21
Tartans average of 8.2 yards per carry. This 
year he carried 49 times for 226 yards and 
a score. His yards per carry average of 4.6 
was the highest among Tartan regulars. He 
added 61 yards and a touchdown on 6 
receptions.
The Veer offense is deigned to control 
the football and consume as much of the 
clock as possible. This means that the 
quarterback will not usually throw the low 
percentage deep pass but rather the shortmedium range pass which has better chance 
of being completed. The primary receiver 
in such an offense is more often than not 
one of the two tight-ends. The leader 
among Tartan Golden Retrievers is 
Greg Samsa with 27 catches for 471 yards 
and 4 TDs. The sure-handed senior 
has the ability to run after a reception, 
thus earning him the pseudonym, the 
Dancing Pig. The other tight end slot 
is shared by sophomore Gary Drakulic 
with 7 catches for 114 yards and a touch
down and junior John Tucci with 4 catches 
totalling 76 yards and he has also scored 
once. Both were described by Coach 
Klausing as good, dependable players 
with exceptional blocking ability. The 
wide receivers are junior Pete Recchia 
who has excellent speed and good hands 
and the disciplined senior, Bob Frye,
L to R - Jeff Harrison, Gene Marcink, Jim Brown, Joe Stark, Bob Kennedy, Perry Colosimo, Bob 
Frye, and Bob Gasior have all played important roles in the CMU offensive attack.
NEED A RIDE
for the loss of speed afoot with the abil
ity to block. Recchia was the second 
leading receiver on the team this year with 
17 receptions and 244 yards and a touch
down. He also scored a touchdown in 
the fifth game of the year against Bethany 
when he picked up a loose ball and scam
pered 20 yards for a score. Recchia is also 
the kick-returner and his 6 returns for 
123 yards have given the Tartan offense good field position throughout the year.
Bob Frye is dependable in the clutch, 
although his numbers are not as astounding 
as those of the other regulars. His three 
catches for 55 yards have come in the most 
opportune times. A typical Frye reception 
came in the closing minutes of the final 
game against Thiel. CMU was winning 14-13 
and had apparently been stalled by the 
Tomcat defense. The situation was 4th 
down and long. If Klausings call had 
failed, Thiel would have taken over in fair
ly decent field position. Had they scored 
Thiel would be waiting for the playoffs 
and Carnegie-Mellon would be planning for 
1980. The end result of the play was that 
Frye caught one of only five passes com
pleted by Kennedy and the Tartans had a 
firstdown and were on their way to a 
touchdown which guaranteed the Tartans
L to R - Mark Leposky, Greg Samsa, Gary Drakulic, John Tucci, and Pete Recchia helped Bob 
Kennedy pile up over 1000 yards passing.
continued from page 19
a minimal amount of action but still 
managed to gain 248 yards. This year, the 
5-7, 170 pound runner carried the ball 94 
times and gained 416 yards and .scored 
twice. He amazes all who watch him 
with his strength and toughness. Despite 
his small size Coach Klausing classified him 
as a very good blocker.
The other tailback is shifty junior 
Perry Colosimo. He is bigger and faster than 
Leaman and the Tartans are fortunate to 
have him healthy for the playoffs. Last year 
he was second to Gasior in rushing. He also 
averaged 33.7 yards per reception. In the 
playoff loss to Baldwin-Wallace last year, 
one player who cannot be faulted is Perry 
Colosimo. He was the leading rusher for the

---------------------------------------------------

November 13, 1979-TAR TAN-Page 21
Anabolic steroids: friend or foe ni^rrnodern athlete?
 i'2: iii 'iT TRby Perry Coiosimo
The fact that CMU students are becom
ing more and more conscious of their 
physical appearance cannot be denied. No
where can more evidence be found to 
support this claim than in the new Uni
versity Weight Room, which has attrac
ted a rash of devotees.
Whether they are training for competetive athletics, bodybuilding, powerlifting or 
simply training to look good, these ironpumpers are serious about their training. 
Everything they do in the weight room is 
geared towards making progress. Innova
tive training methods and equipment are 
exploited in the hopes of getting an edge 
over the opponent. Some will stop at no
thing while others excercise discretion, 
especially where their bodies are concerned. 
Those who stop at nothing to get bigger 
and stronger inevitably encounter the most 
controversial issue in competetive athletics; 
the use of anabolic steroids. The intense 
drive of serious athletes to excel in their 
sport has left them particularly vulnerable to 
using muscle-building anabolic steroids.
Despite medical denunciation and 
banning by sports organizations, evidence 
indicates that the use of anabolic drugs is 
growing rapidly. Much of the controversy 
revolves around the positive impressions 
of athletes and the insistence of sports 
officials and doctors on the flipside of the 
coin that steroids dont increase strength 
or muscle mass, but do have long-term, 
negative effects. The American Medical 
Association has officially recommended 
that athletes not use oral anabolic agents 
claiming that the best way to excel in 
athletics is through progressive excercise 
and proper nutrition.
What compounds the problem is the 
pervading belief that the failure to take 
steroids leaves one with no hope of ever 
reaching national or international status 
as a competetive athlete. There is a unan
imous feeling among athletes that these 
compounds substantially increase muscle 
strength, size and bodyweight. Among 
heavy users are track and fieid athletes, 
football players, bodybuilders and weightlifters. A noted sports medicine authority 
states that at least at one point in time, 
football players at all levels (high school, 
college, and professional) were taking drugs 
on direct orders from their coaches and/or 
team physicians.
Women athletes, too, are using steriods 
with seeming greater effectiveness than 
men. The questions is whether the sudden 
improvement in the athletic performances 
of women are due to the changing attitude 
toward women in sports, or to the use of 
drugs. The answer is probably both. 
Steroid use continues to be a controver
sial topic on the basis of all that is presently 
known about them. What do we know 
about them, and how do they affect the 
body?
The actual body and muscle weight 
changes that occur depend on age, sex, nu
trition, and the training level of the athlete. 
Studies also suggest that the vascularity in 
the muscle tissue is increased along with the 
diameter of muscle fibers, microfibrils, and 
subcellular components. There also seems
IM update
Backgammon - The new commissioner 
is Cathy Jensen. New entries are needed 
now.
Darts - Commissioner Gary Frankstaon 
(682-9580) emphasizes that it is not too
late to sign up for darts.
3-Person Volleyball - Its not too late to 
sign up. The commissioner is Mike Pochan.
Important IM Board Meeting Thursday 
Nov.,15 in room 104(gym) at 12:30 PM.
Please plan to attend!
to be a greater utw-''* 
androgen trp- and a great deal
of evidence suggesting that steroids decrease 
visceral and total fat while increasing the 
body content of proteins and water. Some 
researchers have also suggested that protein 
synthesis may be increased when additional 
energy in the form of glycogen becomes 
available to the cell.
Other research claims that in an adult 
athlete, the muscle fibers have already 
reached their maximum diameter and that 
the drug does little or no good. Many coa
ches and athletic adminstrations spend a 
great deal of time trying to convince the 
athletes that steroids are harmful and are 
useless in building stregth. So why do ath
letes continue to use them? Simply because 
they believe steroids work. However, this 
does not mean they should become part of 
every athletess training. There are alterna
tives to steroids that have proven to be just 
as effective. A systematic nutritional pro
gram will influence strength gains as well 
as or better than an anabolic program, and 
the nutritional program has no harmful 
side effects. Steroids do have side effects, 
some of which are quite serious and 
anyone using them without proper medical 
guidance is risking his health.
Steriods affect the liver and kidneys. 
They also juggle the entire endocrine system 
which can throw the body out of its na
tural balance. Side effects from improper 
usage may include: headaches, excessive 
acne, extreme irritability, loss of sex drive, 
insommnia, voice changes, growth of body 
hair, and excessive cramping. Teenagers 
should stay away from steroids simply be
cause the drug affects the hormones. Thus, 
secondary sexual characteristics can be seriuosly altered.
There are quite a few anabolic steroids 
being used by various athletes. Some of the
;pular are: Dianabol, Winstrol, 
Anavan, and Durabolin. Dianabol is the 
most popular, while Winsrol and Anavan 
are considered the lowest in androgenic 
properties. Durabolin is taken in by injecion, which makes it safer since it by
passes the liver.
The real danger in anabolic usage is
not the fact that they are being used, but 
rather in how they are being used. Too 
many athletes are using them without the 
benefit of medical supervision and this could 
prove to be dangerous. Periodical checkups, 
especially for the liver and prostrate are 
most important for over all health.
I work for exceptional people...
... my clients. And I like to think I perform 
exceptionally well for them  when it comes to 
things like generating funds for a college edu
cation, or finding applicable tax advantages, or 
setting up an effective employee benefit pro
gram. Yes, Im a professional life insurance 
underwriter and proud of it. And if youre the 
least bit skeptical about what a tremendously 
flexible financial tool life insurance really is, 
you ought to get in touch.
Get the most out of life with
SZEYLLER 
ASSOCIATES m
STATE COLLEGE. PA (814) 238-0544 
PITTSBURGH. PA (412) 824-0422
PROVIDENT
MUTUAL
LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY 
OF PHILADELPHIA
248 Calder Way. State College PA 16801 
400 Penn Center Boulevard. Pittsburgh. PA 15235
NOW YOU CAN EARN OVER $6,500 WITH ARMY ROTC,
PECIAE LIR OADURDTE CAIf oIrrEOE! PEoDRsE nIw, LIR oDn oIfbinE sEAvioE in ThE AAfL REsEAvE IA NDTiInDr GRDAU wiTh AAfL ROTC. ITs oDrrEU ThE SifRrTDnEIRs MEfbEAship PAIOADf (SMP). AnU, UEpEnUinO In LIRA DoDUEfio LEDA whEn LIR EnTEA, SMP oDn hErp LIR EDAn IvEA $6,500.HEAEs hIw iT wIAks. IC LIR qRDriCL DnU D vDoDnoL is DvDirDbrE, LIR bEoIfE D fEfbEA IC Dn AAfL REsEAvE IA NDTiInDr GRDAU RniT Ds Dn ICCioEA TADinEE DnU, DT ThE sDfE TifE, EnAIrr in ThE AAfL ROTC DUvDnoEU oIRAsE DT LIRA oIrrEOE. YIRA REsEAvE IA GRDAU fEfbEAship wirr pDL LIR DT ThE finifRf rEvEr IC SEAOEDnT E-5, DnU LIRrr AEoEivE $S00 D fInTh URAinO ThE AEORrDA sohIIr LEDA Ds Dn AAfv ROTC DUvDnoEU oIRAsE oDUET.AT ThE EnU IC LIRA sEoInU LEDA IC DUvDnoEU ROTC, LIRrr bE oIffissiInEU D sEoInU riERTEnDnT DnU, DssRfinO ThEAEs D vDoDnoL, sEAvE wiTh D GRDAU IA REsEAvE RniT whirE LIR oIfprETE ThE AEqRiAEfEnTs CIA LIRA oIrrEOE UEOAEE. UpIn OADURDTiIn, LIR fDL oInTinRE sEAvioE wiTh D GRDAU IA REsEAvE RniT whirE pRAsRinO LIRA oiviriDn oDAEEA, IA LIR oDn, iC LIR pAECEA, oIfpETE CIA DoTivE URTL Ds Dn AAfL ICCioEA.SI iC LIRU rikE TI EDAn IvEA $6,500 whirE LIRAE sTirr in oIrrEOE, OET inTI SMP. PEoDRsE SMP oDn hErp LIR UI iT. YIR oDn bDnk In iT!FIA CRAThEA inCIAfDTiIn, oInTDoT ThE PAICEssIA IC MiriTDAL SoiEnoE DT LIRA sohIIr.
NATIONALGUARDa
ARMY ROTC ARMY NATIONAL GUARD. ARMY RESERVE.

---------------------------------------------------

VMM
As soon as they get to the top, 
they9 ve made their point... then they re going to drink it,
For the real beer lover.
Page 22TARTANNovember u, i/a----------------------------
h :
spearheads PAC top offensive unitOffensive line
fay Tom Smith
Because of the constant, intensely 
physical battles that take place at the 
line of scrimmage during a football game, 
it is often said that linemen play in the 
pits. But this term in no way reflects 
the talent of the Tartans offensive line. 
Playing in what is probably the least 
glamorous position, offensive linemen are 
often destined to obscurity. However, 
the excellent play of the Tartan offen
sive line doesnt go unnoticed. Coach 
Klausing attributes the success of CMUs 
ball-control offense to the ling. He points 
out that the running backs get a lot of 
four and five yard gains because of the 
holes opened up by the line.
The 'Tensive line consists of two 
tackles, two guards, and a center. One 
of the keys to the Tartan line is right 
tackle Don Kaminsky, a senior who- has 
started since his freshman year. Don was 
also named to the PAC All-Conference 
team in his sophomore and junior years. 
Other seniors on the starting line are 
Mark Rice (left tackle) and Gary Matz
(left guard). Both are two-year regulars. 
The right guard is Jimmy Principe, a 
junior who has started for two years, 
and the center is Joe Goldcamp, also 
a junior. This is Joes first year as a start
er.
This group has played together for 
two years, and I wondered if their abili
ty to work so effectively as a unit de
veloped gradually or if it was just one of 
those things that seem to happen natu
rally. I guess it was a little of both. The 
offensive line played fairly average at the 
beginning of last year, Coach Klausing 
said, but by the end of the year, .they 
were winning every battle at the line of 
scrimmage. In fact, they were dominat
ing the defensive line of every team that 
we played.
These guys can handle pressure, too. 
Coach Klausing said the best game they 
played was against the University of Day
ton during last years play-offs. CMU 
won that nail-biter by a score of 24-21.
The second-string offensive linemen 
are also doing a good job this year. They
,',,a Mark Green, center Mike 
Daher, leit laimv . ^ ' an, right guard
Rick Creech, and left guaru Horton. 
Mylan, Creech, and Horton are all under
classmen, ready and willing to fill in when 
this years seniors are gone.
Football fans only like to watch the 
exciting players the runners and the 
passers. They seem to forget whos block
ing for the runners and protecting the 
passers. But offensive linemen are a proud 
breed. They know what their job is and 
they go out and do it. Coach Klausing 
called the Tartan offensive line an 
intelligent, error-free group that coor
dinates well together.
Finally, somebody noticedL to R - Greg Samsa, Don Kaminski, Jim Principe, Joe Goldcamp, Gary Matz, and Mark Rice are one 
reason Kennedy was ranked 7th nationally in total offense and Gasior ranked 4th in scoring.
photo by D ry Duffee

---------------------------------------------------

Shadyside-2 & 3 Bedroom carpeting,
laundry, spacious rooms, appliances, 
security, no pets. 682-7011.
For Sale: Les Paul custom gold-plated 
case. $375.00 or best offer. 244-0489. 
FRIENDLY RESTAURANT- Waiter/Waittress/Grill Coordinators/Counter Cashiers 
need people with high desire to work in 
pleasant surroundings. Day & Night shifts 
available. Experience preferred but not 
necessary. For an appointment, call 344- 
6363.
Friendly Restaurant 
437 Cochran Rd.
Mt. Lebanon, PA 15228 
EOE M/F
Work Study Students neededimmediate
openings. $3.00/hr. Andy Strazas, Center 
for the Study of Translation. x3578.
Earn Extra Cash! Subjects needed for 
various psychology learning experiments. 
Duration: 3-4 hours. Pay: $3.00/hour. If 
interested, call 578-2815.
FOR SALE: United % fare coupon$50. 
x3623.
Earn extra spending dollars: set your own
hours selling program ads and subscriptions 
for Theater Express on a 25% and 10% 
comnryssion basis. Call 621-5454.
Needed: Bartenders, waiting and table per
sonnel to work in Heaven  a new down
town discotheque and resaurant. Experi
ence preferred. Interview schedule: 10:30 
to 1:00 and 2:30 to 5:00 on November 
20th. 105 Sixth Street - 10th floor for 
interview. For appointment call 232-0042. 
Counter help for restaurant. Full or parttime. Shifts available: 9AM to 4PM,4PM 
to 9PM, 9PM to 4AM. Apply 3901 Forbes 
Avenue, Oakland, Original Hot Dog Shop.
Anyone witnessing Hit-Skip accident on
Forbes Ave. last Wednesday night at 2 AM. 
Please call 422-9913. REWARD.
I'll miss you all. Love, Sandra.
clubs
RENT-A-TECH has the perfect job for
you!! Get valuable work experience and 
earn exra money at the same time. These 
are some of the 100 jobs currently avail
able:
149  Be a medical receptionist
153  Do Drafting 
155  fix a Volkswagon
154  keypuncher 
108  Painting
I For information on tnese and other jobs 
[contact RENT-A-TECH x3535.
CMU Philosophy Club is having a meeting 
Monday Nov. 19 at 8 PM in the H&SS 
iLounge. Anita Allen, a professor with the 
Philosophy Program, will speak on "Con
senting Kids, Hobbes on Parental AuthorAll are welcome and refreshments 
ill be served.
"He first Spring Carnival Booth meeting 
ill be held Tuesday, November 27, at 7 
3M in Skibo, Room 11. Every organization planning to build a booth on tl; 
midway should send a representative / o
this meeting. ^
Booth chairpersons frn partici
pating organizatir v.noose the theme*this year r .>t meeting, ideas for a
ther^ . generated. Spring Carnival
r .ccutive Committee will then limit these 
ideas to three possible themes. Booth 
chairpersons will finally vote and approve 
the theme.
Our goal is to determine the theme by 
December 15. If your group has not ap
pointed a booth chairperson, please do so 
before November 27. Your group's input 
can make a difference.
Scotch VSoda Presents . . .Sodies IV (Last 
of a series). Sodies IV will be held at 7 PM 
in Skibo Room 11 on Wednesday, Nov
ember 14. This will be the final sodies, so 
be there!
Scotch'n'Soda will hold a Director and
Production Staff call on Saturday, Nov
ember 17 for the Best of the Sodies. Come 
to Skibo Room 11 between 1 and 4 PM. 
No formal costume is requires, but be 
prepared to "show us your stuff." Anyone 
interested in directing or production 
should be there.
The International Student Organization
will hold a meeting to discuss upcoming 
events on Thursday, November 15 in 
Skibo, Room 11 at 6:00 PM. All foreign 
and interested American students are 
invited to attend.
CMU Explorers Club, it's backpacking,
climbing, hiking, cross-country skiing, 
caving, etc., we do it all. Club meetings 
are held every Thursday, 7:00 PM in Skibo, 
Room 11. Beginners and pros are welcome. 
We also have equipment (including sail
boats) for nominal rental fees available to 
the CMU community.
The Students' Dormitory Council has es
tablished office hours. Any undergraduate 
dormitory resident is invited to stop by 
and find out more about SDC or to register 
a complaint about any aspect of life on 
campus. Hours are; Monday from 2:30 to 
I>:30 PM, Tuesday from 12:00 to 1:00 PM 
and 6:00 to 7:00 PM, Thursday from 
12:30 to 1:30 PM and 6:30 to 7:30 PM, 
and Friday from 2:30 to 3:30 PM. Our 
office is in room 55 in Skibo, campus ex
tension x2114. Feel free to call or stop by 
Daily Mass is celebrated by the Roman 
Catholic Chaplaincy (The Univ. Oratory 
Parish) Monday through Friday at 12:30 
PM in CMU's Chapel, Skibo 39. If your 
time is limited because of the lunch hour 
please feel free to eat your lunch first and 
still receive the Eucharist. We invite the 
campus community to come and join us. 
ECKANKAR, A Way of Life - film and 
introductory talk on Monday, November 
19, at 8 PM in Skibo 13. Sponsored by 
CMU Eckankar Discussion Group. Free. 
Church of the Redeemer. Evensong with 
mixed voice choir. 4:30 PM, Sunday, 
November 18th. Refreshments following 
the service. This is one of a series of choral 
services. 5700 Forbes Ave., Squirrel Hill. 
422-7100.
Sunday, November 18  CMU Hillel Club
Meeting, 6:30 PM at Hillel House, 131 
Margaret Morrison St.
t -J\iai B'rith Hillel's B(Jc Judaism djscus sion group wH1 ~ luesday, November 
1 /:30 to 8:30 PM at Chatham
College in the Conover Room, Mellon 
Center. The topic will be "Sex and Abor
tion in Jewish Tradition."
Jewish Book Month begins Wednesday,
November 14. B'nai B'rith Hillel will 
pay for you to join the Jewish Publi
cation Society Campus Program. You will 
receive two books  free! Call 621-8875 
for more information and a brochure 
of available books.
Thursday, November 15, Student Leader
ship Council, noon in Rabbi Joe's Office, 
315 S. Bellefield. Bring your lunch or be 
our guest.
Thursday, November 15, Israeli Dancing
begins at 8 PM at B'nai B'rith Hillel, 315 
S. Bellefield Avenue.
On Friday, November 16, Shabbat services
and dinner begin at 5:30 PM at B'nai B'rith 
Hillel, 315 S. Bellefield. Reservations 
should be made in advance by calling 621 - 
8875.
Sunday, November 18  The Poale Zedek
program for Young Jewish adults, in con
junction with B'nai B'rith Hillel, presents 
a dinner forum at 5:30 PM at B'nai B'rith 
Hillel, 315 S. Belllefield Ave. There is no 
charge. Rabbi Safran will lead the forum 
concerning Jewish reponses to cults and 
missionary groups.
Sunday, November 18, "Operation Thun
derbolt," the Israeli-made dramatization 
of the daring raid on Entebbe Airport on 
July 4, 1976, will be shown at 8 PM in the 
Rogal Room of the Jewish Community 
Center, 315 S. Bellefield Ave. This is the 
first film in B'nai B'rith Hillel's Jewish Her
itage film series. Donation  $2; stu
dents  $T.
ATTENTION: The STUDENT SENATE
meets every Tuesday night at 7:30 PM in 
the Wherret Room, through November 13, 
1979. Everyone is welcome. We can 
help solve your problems.
PRICELESS only costs $1550. ( A year
book is forever) 1980 THISTLE on sale at 
Skibo Information Desk. Get one now!
Get the Dean's List edge over your class *
mates. Come to the Communication 
Skills Center and for no fee whatsoever, 
we'll teach, advise, and answer questions 
in all parts of the writing process. Our 
staff works with all subject matter: resu
mes, research papers, letters, applications, 
literature papers, rhetoric study, science 
assignments, and any other writing task 
you can think of.
Our Communication Skills Center, on 
the first floor of Baker Hall, is equipped 
with a library of writing books, exper
ienced and eager staff, and writing lessons 
on the computer. To top all this, we have 
prime office space with a scenic view of the 
Carnegie-Mellon campus.
We are open Monday through Friday, 
9:00 AM to 4:00 PM. Hurry. Don't be the 
last person in your class to take advantage 
of the Comm. Skills Center.
The Spectroscopic Society of Pittsburgh
will meet November 14 at 8:30 PM at 
Duquesne University's Laura Falk Lecture 
Hall in the Mellon Science Building. This 
meeting will feature guest speaker Dr. 
Paul Ellis of the University of South Caro
lina, who will lecture on "Cadmium-115 
NMR Spectroscopy in Bio-inorganic Chem
istry."
The CMU Institute of Building Sciences
and the Western Pa. Solar Energy Asso
ciation will sponsor a meeting and public 
lecture tonight at 7:30 PM in the Hunt 
Library Multipurpose Room. Mr. Gordon 
Grenet from the Butler County Energy 
Conservation Program will speak on 
"Conservation of Energy." Come to meet 
& talk with the people who are involved in 
solar energy and other appropraite tech
nologies in Western Pennsylvania.
Pittsburgh Planned Parenthood's down
town clinic, located at the corner of Ft. 
Duquesne Boulevard and Ninth Street, is 
now operating under expanded clinic 
hours for all services. The new hours are 
Monday, Tuesday, and Thursday from 
8:30 AM to 8 PM; Wednesday and Friday 
from 8:30 AM to 4 PM; and every other 
Saturday. For more information about 
medical services, call 434-8971; for more 
information about the services of the ed
ucation department, call 434-8964.
On November 17th at 9 PM, Dexter 
Gordon, one of the most influential jazz 
saxophonists in the world, will make a 
special guest appearance at Allegheny 
College, Meadville. Tickets will be sold for 
only $4.50 at National Record Marts. The 
concert will be held in a 350 seat chapel, 
act quick in order to get a seat!
official
President Richard M. Cyert will have open
office hours for students between 3 and 5 
PM in his office Wednesday. November 14. 
Students who wish to meet with the presi
dent should telephone his office, 578-2200, 
to set up an appointment. It is hoped that 
this program will be a benefit to both the 
president and the students in allowing stu
dents direct contact with him.
John P. Crecine, Dean of College of Hu
manities and Social Sciences will have open
office hours for students on Tuesday from 
1:30 PM to 3:30 PM.
WHEN IS A FRIEND NOT A FRIEND?
When he's a compadre! Learn about social 
customs and the special problems between 
Anglos and Latinos in a new MLP course, 
Latin American Civilization (82-484). This 
course, in English, will help prepare stu
dents who plan to work or travel in Latin 
America or who plan to work or travel in 
Latin America or who will be working with 
Hispanics in the U.S. Films, slide presenta
tions, guest speakers. No prerequisites. 
Spring Semester, Tuesdays and Thursdays, 
1:30-2:45. Lisa Fedorka (MLP, x2897). 
This course will fulfill Humanities require
ments for CIT/MIS students and the For
eign Language requirements for H&SS stu
dents.
SPRING 1980
-------tV
TiC. ycpBEGINS
*i i
U
P
REGISTRATION
TOMORROW

---------------------------------------------------

a.b.
November 16 at 6, 8, 10 and 12 PM 
Watership Down in DH 2210
Admission $1 with CMU ID/$12.5 without 
An animated film version of Richard 
Adams' splendid adventure fantasy of the 
migration of a small band of rabbits from 
their doomed warren to a new homeland 
several arduous miles away on the Berk
shire Downs.
November 17 in DH 2210
African Queen at 8 and 12 PM 
Maltese Falcon at 6 and 10 PM
Admission is $.50 with ID/$1 without. 
Sponsored by SDC.films
November 13 at 8PM 
Carnegie Institute Lecture Hall
The Jean Renior film series continues with 
the presentation of This Land is Mine. Ad
mission is $1.50.
November 14 and 7:30 PM 
Eddy Theatre, Chatham College 
Dial M for Murder will be presented. Ad
mission is $1.50.
November 14 at 7 PM 
Porter Hall 100
The second feature of the CarnegieMellon German Film Series will be Nachtschat/en, for mature audiences only - Free 
Admission.
November 15 at 8PM
Carnegie Museum of Art Theatre
Three very different films of passage by
three well-known independent filmmakers
will be presented. Showing are Corridor,
Screene Velocity, and Barn Rushes. Free
Admission.
November 15 at 6, 8:30 and 11 PM 
The American Friend in DH 2210 
Admission $.75 with CMU ID/$ 1 without 
In New German Cinema this film is perhaps 
what has established Wim Wenders among 
the top directors. It is beautifully photo
graphed with an exciting and baroquely 
complex storyline. It is about an ordinary 
Hamburg artisan employed as an assassin 
by a French, gangster through the mani
pulation of a mysterious American. 
Wender raises themes of rootlessness and 
the tenuousness of personality to a global 
level.
November 18 at 8PM 
Carnegie Institute Lecture Hall 
Mildred Pierce, starring Joan Crawford, will 
be presented. Admission is $1.50.
November 15,18 at Midnight 
Kings Court Theatre, Oakland 
Effects will be shown. Rated R. Call 682- 
2334 for more information.
Pittsburgh Playhouse Theatre Center 
Craft Avenue, Oakland 
This week's film repertory includes: Tues
day, Closely Watched Trains; Wednesday, 
The Gay Divorcee; Thursday, Shoot the 
Piano Player, Friday, Manhattan; Saturday, 
Last Tango In Paris {7:30 and 9:50); Sun
day, The Harvey Girls; and Monday, Reefer 
Madness and Betty Boop Scandals {7:30 
and 9:50). Admission is $2.50. Showtimes 
are 7:30 and 9:30 PM except where noted. 
WQED TVHighlights (TV 13)
November 16-Mountbatten: A Man for 
the Century (10 PM) 
November 18-Th Long Search: The Land 
of Disappearing Buddha (6 
PM)
Masterpiece Theater: Poldark (7PM)
Masterpiece Theater: Love 
for Lydia (9 PM)
Edward the King (10 PM) 
November 19-Dionne Quintuplets (9 PM) 
November 20-World: Hong Kong: The Ar
rival of Boat Number 845 
(10 PM)
November 21Pitt Panther Night (9 PM) 
November 22Monty Python Flying Cir
cus (10 PM)
November 23Mountbatten: A Man for 
,fhe Century, Part 2 (10 PM) 
November 24Monty Urn Flying Cir
cus (11 PM)special
November 13 at 6 PM
The finest of sounds featuring big band 
style will be presented on The Make 
Believe Ballroom. Host is George Gee. 
November 13 ai 8 PM
Host Mark Andrews will discuss the dangers 
of harmful products with a representative 
of the Food and Drug Administration on 
Profiles on Parade.
November 15 at 8 PM
Thirsty Ear, a probe of the life and music 
of blues, ballads and rock'n roll singer 
Dave Bromberg, will be presented. 
November 19 at 9 PM 
Morewood Recreation Room 
What's Your Game?, a game board study 
break featuring Monopoly, Backgammon, 
Checkers and more will be held. Refresh
ments will be served. Sponsored by SARC. 
November 14 at 8 PM.
Heinz Hall, 600 Penn Avenue, Downtown. 
Direct from Mexico City, a spectacular 
program of folkloric dances and authentic 
music from several regions of Mexico
will be performed by the widely acclaimed 
Gran Folklorico de Mexico. Tickets for the 
fiesta folkloric are $8.50, $7.50, and
$6.50. Student, discounts are available. 
For more information call 281-8185. 
November 18
The Pittsburgh Men's Clan of CMU is
sponsoring "A Night at the Circus" for 
CMU Alumni and Friends. Tickets are
$3.00 for General Admission, $4.00 for 
Reserved seating. Proceeds from the ticket 
sales will go to the Kiltie Marching Band 
toward the purchase of new uniforms. For 
more information and reservations, call 
578-2060.
Through January 1980 
Carnegie Institute
"Printmaking in Europe" will run through 
January 31 in Gallery 10. The Pittsburgh 
International Series, featuring artists 
Chillida and deKooning, will be on view in 
Galleries 12, A,B,C,D and the Entrance 
gallery through January 6. Museum hours 
are 10 AM to 5 PM Tuesday through Satur
day, and 1 PM to 5 PM on Sundays. Closed 
Mondays.
Through February 15,1980 
Hunt Institute
"The Tradition of Fine Bookbinding in 
the Twentieth Century. an exhibit of ap
proximately 100 bookbindings, will be 
held at the Hunt Institute for Botanical 
Documentation. The gallery is free and 
open to the public, Mondays through Fri
days from 9 AM to 5 PM.
Through November 25
Phipps Conservatory, Schenley Park
The 1979 Fall Flower Show featuring more 
than 60,000 individual fall blooms, var
ieties of chrysanthemums and a threering circus returns to the conservatory 
after a 2.5 million dollar restoration. 
Hours are 10 AM to 5 PM and 7 PM to 
9 PM seven days a week. Admission is free 
on Saturdays.
December 7-8 at 8 PM.
Stanley Theatre, Downtown.
The triumphant return of the smash 
Broadway musical Jesus Christ Superstar
comes to Pittsburgh for two performances 
only. Tickets are $8.75 and $9.75. Tickets 
available at the Stanley Box Office, 
Kaufmann's, and National Record Marts. 
November 26 at 6 PM 
Heinz Hall, Downtown, 
i he Chinese Acrobats and Magicians of 
Taiwan return to perform their breath
taking feats and unbelievable magic. 
Tickets are $8, $7, $9. For information 
call 281-8185.
arts
Movember 13-18
Forbe^'? '-**ret Morrison
Karen Bognar, '"'oyle, and Susan
Steinbruck present i. +-c **nd paint
ings at the Forbes Si, >.> The
gallery is open Thursday thru '
12:30-4:30, and Tuesday, Wednesday and 
Thursday evenings from 7-9 PM.
Through November 30 
Downtown Gallery- Ivy School of Profess
ional Art
A two-man photography exhibit featuring 
works by Edward Kabanec and Jim 
Papariello will be on display. Free admis
sion.
November 10 - December 2 
PPA Gallery, 407 S. Craig Street
The Pittsburgh Plan for Art announces an 
exhibit of the works of two local artists, 
Peter Calaboyias (sculptor) and Delbert 
Highlands (painter). Gallery hours are 
Tuesday to Saturday 10 to 5, Sunday 
1 to 5. Free admission.
Through December 2
Forbes and S. Bouquet Streets, Oakland.
The Pittsburgh Print Group will present 
its juried Fall Show of members' prints at 
the UP Gallery. The exhibit is free and 
open to the public. Gallery hours are Tuesday-Saturday, 10-4, and Sunday 2-5.theater
November 9,10, 14-17 at 8 PM 
Kresge Theatre, Carlow College
The comedy Mistress of the Inn will be pre
sented. For ticket information call 578- 
6036. * ~
November 8 - 25
Lovelace Marionette Studio, Shadyside.
Bits and Pieces, by award winning playwrite Corinne Jacker, will be presented. 
Call 683-3993 for more information. 
November 14  December 23 
Allegheny Theatre, North Side 
The Pittsburgh Public Theatre will present 
Anton Chekhov's comedy, The Seagull. 
For ticket information, call 765-3400. 
November 16 - December 13 
Babcock Boulevard
Opening the Bevery Hills Playhouse season 
will be the presentation of The Lady Who 
Cried Fox. Tickets are available for a 
dinner/theatre package or just for the 
show. Call 931-9976 for more information.
November 8  18
Studio Theatre, Cathedral of Learning, 
Pitt Campus ,
Equus a guest production, will be 
presented. Call 624-6587 for more 
information.
November 8 - November 18 
Pittsburgh Playhouse Theatre Center, Oak
land
The Point Park College Theatre Company 
will present Babes in Arms, a musical 
comedy by Rogers and Hart. For ticket 
information, call 621-4445.
November 16-17 at 8 PM 
Route 885, West Mifflin.
The Community College of Allegheny 
College, South Campus, will present The 
Dark at the Top of the Stairs, by William 
Inge. Tickets are available at student rates 
of $2.00. For more information call 
469-1110, extension 390.
November 16 at 8 PM
4836 Ellsworth Avenue, Oakland
Devilish Marry, featuring traditional Amer
ican, Irish, and British Isles will play for a 
coffeehouse at the Friends Meeting House. 
Donation $2.50.
December 6-9 
Craft Avenue, Oakland.
The American Dance Ensemble presents 
Nutcracker. For advance ticket informa
tion call 621 -4445.
December 15- January 6 
Craft Avenue, Oakland.
The Playhouse Junior's upcoming pro
duction of Charles Dickens' A Christmas 
Carol will premiere a new adaptation by 
Thomas Hischak of the classic novel. 
This special holiday production will be 
played in the Pittsburgh Playhouse Hamlet 
Street Theatre. Some shows are sold out, 
and reservations for remaining tickets 
are encouraged by calling 621-4445.
music
November 16 at 8 PM 
4515 Forbes Avenue
Musician Bill Weiner will feature works of 
blues and ragtime at the Alternative Cof
feehouse. Refreshments will be served.
Upcoming Concerts 
Danny Kresky Enterprises
November 21 Tom Petty and the 
Heartbreakers, with
special guests The ^ 
Fabulous Poodles at
the Stanley.
December 2 The Who at the Civic 
Arena.
Dicesare-Engler
November 26 Fleetwood Mac at
the Civic Arena.
November 27 Jefferson Starship at
the Stanley,
Electric Factory Concerts: T ' " i - November 23 - The Outlaws, Molly
Hatchet, and John
Cougar at the Civic
Arena.
November 30 and December 1
Grateful Dead at the Stanley.
November 15 at 8PM 
Union Ballroom, Duquesne University
Pure Prairie League will perform. Tickets 
are available at Union Information Center, 
Pitt Ticket Office; and the Skibo Infor
mation Desk.
Holiday House 
Route 22, Monroeville.
Through November 17- The Temptations 
November 18-22- The Sylvers 
November 23- December 8-The Lettermen 
December 9-16- AI Martino 
December 17-22- Peaches and Herb 
For more information call 351-1385.
November 15 at 8 PM 
November 16 at 8:30 PM 
November 18 at 2:30 PM 
Heinz Hall, Downtown
Sergiu Commissiona conducts the Pitts
burgh Symphony Orchestra. Featured will 
be Bernard Goldberg, flutist, and Gretchen 
Van Hoesen, harpist. Featured will be 
music by Kodaly, Mendelssohn, and 
Mozart. For information call 281 -5000.
November 18 at 3 PM 
Heinz Chapel, Pitt Campus
The Pitt Choral Ensemble will perform 
along with the Rutgers Glee Club.
Through November 18 
South Bellefield Avenue, Oakland
The Pittsburgh Savoyards will the Gilbert 
and Sullivan operatta. Patience at the 
Jewish Community Center Admission is 
$4.00.
December 7 at 8 PM 
Heinz Hall, Downtown.
Fred Waring and the Young Pennsylvan
ians will present "The Best of Best." 
Tickets are $9,$8,$7. For information 
call 281-8185;
December 9 at 4 PM 
Heinz Hall, Downtown
The Pittsburgh Symphony Society presents 
Vladimir Horowitz. Tickets range from 
$7.50 to $30. For ticket information call 
281-5000.
j
