Grass Seekers 
Assault Students
by Christine Infante
This weekend Security had its hands 
full.
Four males of high school age toured 
the campus Friday night asking for dope 
and assaulting several students, including 
one woman. Victims described their assail
ants as ranging in age from 16 to 19 and 
varying in height from 57 to 5 11
The high point of Securitys evening 
came when a twenty year old male student 
was approached by four youths in a car. 
The student was asked, Do you have any 
weed? He said yes, and produced a bag. 
The four grabbed the bag and drove away. 
The C-MU student got into his car and 
followed them. The car chase ended when 
the first car stopped at a red light. The 
student approached their car and asked 
that his dope be returned. He told security 
that he was then struck in the face with a 
fist. The student reported the theft of his 
dope to the Pittsburgh Police.
Earlier in the evening Security was alert
ed by a hill dorm resident, who was 
approached while in his room at 8:00 p.m. 
The student described the youths as black, 
ranging in age from 17 to 19 and of me
dium to thin build.
At 11:45 p.m., five youths accosted a 
female student near ATO fraternity house. 
She reported that they put hands on her 
and tried to grab her. As she struggled they 
ripped her coat from her, tearing it in half.
Around 12:25 a.m., a twenty-four year 
old male C-MU student was walking near 
Doherty Hall when four males confronted 
him. He said that the four wanted to know 
where they could get some grass and then 
asked him for his money and his watch. 
When he made no reply, one of the group 
hit him in the temple, according to Secur
itys report.
At 12:30 in front of Warner Hall, an
other student was approached by four 
continued on page 9
il tartan
February 5, 1974 Volume 74 Number 15
SENATE DEMANDS ROLE IN WRITING CONTTRACT
Housing Letter Protested
photo by Reilly
A dorm dweller dramatizes his protest against housing policy:
"One solution for the $125 housing bill imposed on some C-MU students"
by Amy Reitmeyer
Students involved with living rearrange
ments feel threatened because of a poorly 
worded notice from the Housing Office on 
January 22nd. Addressed to those who lost 
roommates between semesters, the letter 
reads in part, It is the policy of the office 
to maintain all rooms at their designed 
occupancy. It goes on to explain reasons 
for preventing the use of double rooms as 
singles without contacting Housing and 
gives a deadline of January 28th for filling 
empty spaces.
It further states By this time all stu
dents must find a roommate from the 
existing list (copy attached) or pay an 
additional fee of $125.00. The misunder
standing occurs because the letter fails to 
inform students that they may satisfy 
occupancy requirements by finding a 
roommate not listed. The reason a list 
accompanies the notice is to aid students in 
search for a roommate, but it is unclear 
that choices are not limited to this roster. 
Housing also neglected to mention the flex
ibility of the six-day deadline.
Housing added to the confusion by con
cluding the letter with, We shall be happy 
to assist in the arranging of your accommo
dations in any way possible within the 
limits of the existing rules.
Disgruntled students are proposing 
motions in the Student Senate to discover 
what Housing is doing and to prevent fur
ther sudden, unexplained actions. At last 
continued on page 9
Boycott Aftermath P R Director Leaves
tion Conference. This years Conference
by Steve Correll
Interviewed a week after the student 
boycott demanding seconds at Skibo, Food 
Service administrators said theyre looking 
at ways to increase student satisfaction 
with the meal plan.
But they claim that constraints built 
into the system tie their hands when it 
comes to granting the main student de
mand for the resumption of seconds in 
Skibo.
Chief of Operations Ronald Rutledge 
describes the problem with seconds in 
Skibo:  . . . though I havent personally 
witnessed it. 1 understand that until this 
year a lot of students were ripping off the 
administration by feeding their friends, 
says Dr. Rutledge.
Rutledge and Director of Food Services 
Rita Cohen say that they would somehow 
have to lock most entrances to Skibo cafe
teria and station a cashier at the door to 
prevent losses. They would also have to
lock out all cash customers who werent 
willing to buy a full meal.
We do have enough a la carte custom
ers, enough cash business in Skibo (for 
dinner) that I would hate to see it go. says 
Ms. Cohen.
And Dr. Rutledge suggested that offer
ing unlimited seconds at both cafeterias 
would penalize students who dont eat 
seconds but would pay the same price as 
those who do.
Variety, Not Quantity
Rutledge reiterated Food Services state
ment that the different policies at Skibo 
and Morewood are designed to give con
tract holders a choice of services, with 
Skibo offering a greater assortment of en
trees. lie said th.it Food Service never 
pioinised more generous portions at Skibo. 
but only a greater variety.
Dr. Rutledge said that the abolition of 
seconds last ia!i canic paitly as a result 01 
= **** 'continued oh paqe 7
by Tom Schwartz
After fifteen years of working for 
C-MlFs Public Relations Department, Rege 
Ebner is resigning his post as Director.
Ebner cited two reasons for his resig
nation. Since he was Director of the pro
gram there was no possibility for further 
advancement at C-MU; and because of Uni
versity budget cutbacks, PR has had to 
limit its communications system.
For instance, Ebner commented that 
C-MU has excellent film equipment but 
because of the limited budget PR cannot 
use the equipment to its full advantage. He 
said that the use of film, especially for 
television commercials, is vital to a PR pro
gram. Budgetary concerns have also led to 
a lack of manpower.
The office cannot function the way we 
would like it to because of limitations like 
that, commented Ebner.
In addition to being Director of Public
Relations here, Mr. Ebi 
man ol ihc MiUdie At. 
American Collse Plibl
Piun Ch
tion Conference. This years Conference 
will be held in March.
Ebners future plans are indefinite as of 
vet.
ihc Ursine; v> the
Relations Assoc iphoto fc>,
Rege Ebner, Director of PR

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 5, 1974
editors note
Where to go about what and when
This past weeks highlight, the boycott, has the administration 
agreeing on one point-con fusion; when students are upset why dont they 
communicate through their own governing groups?
Rather than attemptchanges through the right line of procedures, the 
students behind the boycott chose their own route. Their reasoning: the 
bigger the splash the better the chance to be heard. They were right. 
Grievances seldom seem to get anywhere fast enough without a little 
publicity. The problem is not simply that student government is too slow 
to act. The problem is student government. '
Its function is dear enough in the minds of those on it, but to the 
rest of us? Ideally, it exists to iron out any problems that we, as students, 
face. One problem that remains damp and wrinkled in a corner of the 
student handbook is student governments purpose.
That we do not approach them with problems is the students fault.
That we do not know we can approach them is the fault of student 
government for being too low key in their image.
An oversimplification for the gap is easy: they are caught up in the 
committee syndrome to the point where too few of us know where to go 
and whom to see with what problems. There are five major committees 
and seventeen subcommittees or councils involving student senators and 
representatives. If the first five can't handle the complaint they can, at 
least, direct the student to a committee that can-maybe.
Channels and chains for bringing about action are unfortunately 
needed to handfe problems that are divided and categorized. It is the way 
CMU works and the way student government operates.
But if students do not need to demonstrate (remember when?) or 
boycott or wage protest wars in the student newspaper to get action then 
student government has to table some talk and let us know how to 
approach them.
Christine Infante 
Editor-in-Chief
letters:
appearing in the next issue of the 
map to committee lane
TARTAN: a complete roadtartan
Christine Infante, Editor-in-Chief 
Gary Singer, Managing Editor 
Lester Nathan, Business Manager
News Editor: Robert Simbeck 
Features Editor: Shelley Burhans 
Head Reporter: Debbie Siegel 
Photography Editors: Ed Levine, 
Elliot Arons 
Entertaihment Editor: Susan Klein 
Sports Eclttor: Jeff Englund
Reporters: Sandy Como, John Craun, Thomas Kendig, Stephen Saunders, Tom Schwartz, Kevin 
Turcotte, Chip Yeager, Steve Correll  Jan Lindberg, Philip Franklin, Mike Krivda
Entertainment: Mark Evan Chimsky, Debbie Siegel, Rob Simbeck, Steve Perkins, Lisa Zeidner 
Sports: Roger Geddes, Glenn Campbell, Leslie Allen, Mary Kay Burak, Mary Jo Chabala,
Jim Litsas, Mike Pochan, Mark Schiffman 
Layout: Louise LoPinto
Photographers: Bruce Edelston, Ellen Eddy, Chris Forland, Nick Lardas, Elliot Popowitz, Rod 
Reilly, John Rose, Fredrick ShamliOn, John Shettel, Courtney Larsen, Bryan Smith, Frank Stein, 
Rick Werme
Copy: Mina Gerall, Sandy Preuhs, Cathy Kinneavy 
Cartoonists: Ron Wiggins, Kitty Fischer
The Editorial Board of the TARTAN reserves the right to edit or withhold any copy that it 
considers unfit for publication. Published every Tuesday during the academic year by the student 
government of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Deadlines are 12 noon 
for announcements, classified ads and letters to the editor and 5:00 p.m. for articles and display 
ads on the Wednesday preceding the Tuesday of publication. Editorial and Business offices are 
located in Skibo 50. Telephone (412) 682-4557 or campus extension 656.
There will be a general staff meeting 
Thursday at 4:30>.
All staff members are expected to toe 
there.
Editor:
Last week a commentary entitled Please 
Maam Some More, appeared on page three 
of the TARTAN. The commentary con
cluded by stating that this issue of the 
TARTAN would contain results of a survey 
on STUDENT OPINIONS to FOOD 
SERVICE POLICY. We, the two students 
who wrote that article, must apologize for 
being unable to furnish results of that 
intended survey. Several meetings with Mr. 
Rutledge, Ms. Cohen, and other members 
of the boycott committee have indicated 
that results of such a survey would be 
considered inaccurate and not valid by 
members of Food Service and Mr. 
Rutledge.
The survey was limited to six questions, 
several comparing food quality and 
selections between Morewood and Skibo. 
Other questions pertained to the idea of 
dropping the third entree at Skibo and 
having unlimited seconds, as at Morewood.
As a sesult of these meetings, the 
problem that Thursdays boycott related to 
has expanded into a much more complex 
and perhaps unnecessary problem. 
Questions dealing with the Kiltie Cafe, 
Tartan Grill, Morewood Gardens, and yes, 
even the faculty dining room, have all 
come together to make the intended survey 
useless.
For those people who were hoping for a 
reasonably speedy solution to the problem, 
were afraid you may have to wait, possibly 
until next year. It turns out that talks 
between students and food service have 
expanded into the formation of 
committee organized by C-MU to construct 
another survey.-Its hoped that the new 
survey will be finished by the end of this 
semester but unfortunately the survey will 
poll all students, faculty, and anyone else 
who eats Christmas dinner at Food Service.
It seems the other survey is being 
directed in tangents and not focusing on 
the original problem. We feel that Food 
Services obligation should lie in the 
direction of the Food Contract holder. 
Since Food Service has already secured 
payment from these people, this should 
not be an unreasonable attitude to have. As 
it appears to us now, contract holders (who 
roughly outnumber cash customers three 
to one) are being given the same considera
tions as cash customers. Food Service 
priorities should be given to those people 
who have already paid.
Our original survey dealt' specifically 
with contract holders. We felt then, as we 
do now, that the questions were valid and 
not biased. An accurate view of student 
opinions regarding the management of 
Skibo and Morewood would clearly be 
shown. Therefore, we still intend to 
conduct the original survey. The results 
will be presented to Food Service, Mr. 
Rutledge, and anyone else who may wish 
to see them. (Results will also be published 
in the TARTAN.) Its hoped that these 
results will push towards favorable changes 
in Food Service Policies before the signing 
of another contract.
We wish good luck and success lo those 
involved in the University survey and in 
the New Food Service Student 
Committee, (This new committee has been 
in the planning stages since last November 
end happened to materialize the day after
Well, outside its threatening 
to snow, the wind is rolling 
across the bleak streets, / have 
on three shirts and a sweater, 
the candlelight is all aglow, and 
the starlings are singing sweetly 
down by the garbage can. 
/ sit in my solitary study, 
pouring over volumes of knowledge 
Stephen Douglas, here / come....
the boycott!) Hopefully, improvements to 
the present Food Service will be 
accomplished by the committee endeavors. 
We regretfully withdraw from these 
involvements as we do not wish to involve 
ourselves in activities wrapped in bureau
cratic red tape with a slim chance of 
materialized results.
It was stated last week that we found no 
difference in the preparation of Skibo food 
and Morewood food. We wish to revise that 
statement. It seems we were in error. After 
eating the last twenty-one meals at More
wood, weve found the food preparation 
superior to that of Skibo. We hope the 
re su Its-if any-of the Food Service 
Committees survey do not change or 
damage the present management of food at 
Morewood Gardens.
Jeff Byers 
Kevin Clark
Editor:
I read with interest the editorial com
ment by Kevin Clark and Jeff Byers in the 
January 29 issue of the TARTAN for its 
growing awareness that students in this 
campus sign food contracts which guaran
tee them virtually nothing about the kind 
of service delivered. The Food Service boy
cott demonstrated the power of collective 
action. Now is the time to carry that col
lected power one step further: A united 
group of interested students should de
mand representation in the negotiation and 
actual wording of food and hoasing con
tracts to insure them that sepcifically de
tailed services and rights are delivered to 
them as promised and unaltered, as a mat
ter of contractual obligation, throughout 
the contract period. What is our power as 
consumers to effect this change? By re
fusing, as a gioup, to sign unfavorable 
contracts.
Philip Koltun 
continued on page 3

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, February 5, 1974-Page 3
news comment
Dean Swank's most recent concerns are the values of students at 
Carnegie-Mellon. What are they?
The question might be phrased: what values does Carnegie-Mel/on give 
the student?
How ironic that students enter this utopia to expand the mind and 
achieve excellence in a specific field, while in spare moments they search 
for the most effective escapes from the realities of the intelligentsia.
Weekends become a time of seeking relief from some of the academic 
bullshit the student encounters on the journey to professionalism. 
Whether your answer is to smoke a joint, get plastered, laid, or off on 
music, there is a calling to ease the pressure. Proof exists by merely 
observing the derelict souls that stagger into Mo rewood Lobby on Friday 
and Saturday nights. (Ive been one myself.)
Do these alternatives of pleasure seeking sound extreme? Its not that 
there arent things to do around campus. Although possibilities exist, 
students often dont want to partake of them. During the week, students 
are driven into the ground with productivity and when it comes to 
relaxation, everybody cant channel energy into the philosophical goal and 
purpose cliches.
Student activities provide a wide variety of organizations. The survival 
of these groups depends on the interests of students. How many students 
have time to get involved with groups that cant directly influence their 
future? If there is a lack of student interest, student activities may 
disappear. This lack of interest, termed apathy, may lead the non-student 
community to degrade student values and worth.
A greater majority of students take advantage of activities offered by 
the university. Its simple to view a movie, attend a concert or coffee
house, and divorce oneself from the politics of obtaining entertainment. A 
few people are left with the responsibility of pleasing the taste of other 
students.
If one views C-MU on the basis of give and take, a value system has 
been established which encourages the student to take as much as offered 
and from then on, fend for thyself.
Student values are questioned in the midst of a conflict between the 
students survival and the need to establish reasonable ideals.
Its about time that the university joined with the students to decide;_ 
what their values are.
Debbie Siegel 
Head Reporter
TARTAN SPOTLIGHT
Varsity: Money Wasted?
letters:
Editor:
Here is a gripe:
Why did they tear up everything 
around the Fine Arts building for the 
muddiest months of the year?
Here is a wonderful solution:
Build boardwalks around the areas 
that have been torn up. It may cost $ (and 
in this our financial crisis thats a problem). 
But surely youd get your $ back. Think of 
the nice shops and hotels boardwalks 
attract.
________________________________ Will Kine
Dear Carnegie-Mellon University, -  .
There has been a grbat deal of confusion 
about WRCTs conversion to FMyHope/ul- , 
ly, this will clear some of it up. ,
We have had a distinct Divisin' of Labor 
principle in operation concerning the con
version. WRCTs Engineering Department 
had the awesome task of ordering and in
stalling all of the new studio equipment.
After a few mistakes and some station apathy last semester, this and all of the 
other preliminary work has now been 
com pleted.Our antenna will be located on the root 
of Skibo. Physical Plant has assumed the 
responsibility for much of the roof work.
They have told us that hteir work will be 
done this week, weather and work load 
permitting. Technical problems (including 
a minor burn out in the transmitters 
power supply and a UPS strike) have, in 
the past, caused us to delay them and them 
to delay us.All of the major materials that are re
quired are now here. You will soon hear us 
at 88.3 on the FM dial. If not you can only 
wait along with us. Physical Plant is a busy 
branch of Operations. The conversion of 
WRCT-AM to WRCT-FM is, stmply. nolbfteer in the hands of WRCT. The Executive Board of WRCT
(This is the first in a series of looks at 
various aspects of the University.)
by Debbie Seigel
I believe we should put more of our 
money into Intramural sports. That state
ment by Bob McCurdy, Director of Stu
dent Activities, is not a new sentiment on 
campus, nor is it restricted to any one 
segment of the campus community. I 
definitely think more money should be put 
into intramural sports the student in
terest is certainly there, said one student. 
Why cant the money from the Varsity 
program be used? The money there is being 
wasted on a handful of people in whom the 
campus is barely interested.
Now that the University is actively re
cruiting for its Varsity Athletic program, 
such sentiments take on an added dimen
sion.
Raymond Hayn^, Director of Physical 
Education and Athletics, explained the 
newly-instituted recruiting program: This 
is the first time we could recruit with uni
versity support and the Admissions office. 
The coaches sell the university to students 
who want to get a fine education and play 
sports.
There is no such thing as an athletic 
scholarship at Carnegie- Mellon, he con
tinued. Were trying to sell the school on 
a different medium. There is no incentive 
for the student to come to C-MU except 
that he has a good academic background 
and he can participate in the sport of his 
choice.
Forty to forty-five football players and 
twelve to fifteen freshman basketball play
ers entered C-MU this year.
Board to Study Sports Program
An athletic board consisting of con
cerned students, faculty, alumni, and Mr. 
Haynes have been meeting this year to 
review the total program of physical educa
tion.
The board is trying to determine the 
appropriate program in athletics for this 
type of institution. They are analyzing cost 
figures on space for intramural practice and 
trying to determine the utilization of the 
gym. One issue has been discrimination 
against women. Presently, women cant 
utilize the weight lifting equipment be
cause they must walk through the mens 
locker room.
Another concern is the girls intercollegi4te basketball team which operates 
on a minimal budget as a varsity sport and 
has maintained an outstanding record in 
the competition. Dean Swank commented. 
Im hoping that out of this process comes 
a better distribution between men and 
women. The next meeting of the Athletic 
Board is on February 5 and Dean Swank 
offered to speak with anyone who would 
be interested in attending.
Who gets what?
Should intramurals receive a bigger 
share of the budget because 50% of the 
men and 30% of the women participate in
some form of intramural sports? McCurdy 
asks.
Mr. Haynes replied to McCurdys quest
ion by outlining the budget of the Athletic 
Department. (These figures dont include 
the paying of faculty salaries.) $46,000 is 
spent on all ten varsity sports and this 
includes costs like telephone repairs, maint
enance of the football uniforms, field recrutiting, and travel expenses. The 32 
Intramural sports operate on a budget of 
$4,600 and this includes operating ex
penses, officials at games, team awards and 
getting the fields lined off. Physical Educa
tion has an operating budget of $3,175 and 
equipment must come out of this money. 
Haynes explained that the varsity field was 
repaired out of a donation from the Steelers who held practice there.
Haynes likened the physical education 
program to a pyramid. At the bottom level,
$46,000 for varsity sports,
$4,600 for intramurals
one can obtain basic instruction in phys ed 
classes. The second level is Intramurals and 
the top level is varsity sports. Haynes calls 
varsity the entertainment level because it is 
one means of exposing the university to 
the public.
Concerning the possibility of redistri
buting the budget, Haynes replied, I know 
all our budgets are low. They could only be 
redistributed by cutting down on the kinds 
of varsity sports. Id rather see emphasis 
placed on all three levels of the pyramid. If 
youre going to have a university of excell
ence, you shouldnt have any losers. I be
lieve the administration is doing what they 
can to give support.
And an administrat6r said, Its a big 
expenditure for just a few people. It seems 
like the same amount of money in intra
murals serves a lot more people with more 
lasting benefit than the money we spend 
for Varsity sports. At a school where every
body watches an event, its worth what the 
school spends. But here its obvious that a 
lot of people just dont go at all.
_______________________IN MEMORIAL ^
Kenneth H. Fagerhaugh, Director of 
Libraries for C-MU, died unexpectedly of a 
heart attack this week.
Mr. Fagerhaugh was instrumental in ex
tending the library hours.
A fellow of the Americans for the Ad
vancement of Science, Mr. Fagerhaugh 
came to C-MU in 1952. He was a past 
vice-president of the Special Libraries 
Association (Pittsburgh chapter) and had 
served as library consultant for W & J 
College, Rensselaer, the Polytechnic Insti
tute of Brooklyn, and the Middle States 
Association of Colleges and Secondary 
Schools. A memorial service was held 
10:00 a.m. Saturday at H. Samson, Inc .
Mr. Fagerhaugh is survived by two sis
ters, Mrs. Leroy Enger of Iowa and Mrs. 
Herman Hopstad of Washington, and his 
stepmother, Mrs. Olive Fagerhaugh of 
Canada.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 5, 1974
announcements
The energy crisis will be the subject of two
mini-courses at Duquesne University which 
either can be taken for or without academ
ic credit. The general public, as well as 
college and university students, may enroll.
The Chemistry and Physics depart
ments jointly are offering the first onecredit course, titled "Energy Resources, to 
consist of six lectures dealing with the na
tion's energy capabilities and prospects 
from 7:30-9:30 pm. February 4, 5, 6, 7, 11 
and 12 in Laura Falk Lecture Hall of Mel
lon Hall. The lectures are written to be 
readily understood by a general audience. 
The political science and the military sci
ence departments together will have as 
heir combined mini-course "The Energy 
Crisis: Implications for National Strategy," 
with six class sessions, including lectures, 
"ocusing on the political developments and 
the international power implications result
ing from the energy crisis. The sessions, 
also geared to a general audience, are being 
held March 7, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15. Ad
ditional information may be obtained by 
phoning 434-6389, 6390 or 6664.
I nformal Composer's Concert Series:
Several composer's concerts will begin at 
CMU, 8 pm., Thursday, February 7th, in 
the Wherrett Ro^m of Skibo. The first, to 
be held on February 7th, will feature 
works by Clifford Young, Michael Houlis, 
Michael Simon, and Rick Austill. There 
will be no admission charge and the public 
is cordially invited.
The Tenth Muse, the AB Coffeehouse will
again present a folk coffeehouse on Friday, 
February 8th in the Kiltie Cafe. Food and 
admission are free, and any member of the 
campus community is welcome to come in 
and sit for a while.
Reward: For any information leading to
the whereabouts of a large black trunk 
(approx. 4' x 3' x 2') missing from the 
Mudge lobby sometime between January 
18 and January 22. Marked with a Cali
fornia address. Contact Shelley at 
687-7034 or 682-4557.
Schools and Instructions: Dancing (group
or private instructions). Ballroom, Latin, 
Discotheque, variety dances, group classes 
now forming. International, American style 
dance. Enroll! 241-2162.
RUGS 
with your ID Card 
9 x 12s $15, $19, $29, $39 
also 6x9s,12x12s, 12x15s
Also wall tapestries, Indian rugs furry rugs 
and bedspreads. Low prices oriental rugs in 
many sizes.
ASK ABOUT DISCOUNT FURNITURE
CHASE'S 8pmS.,i5
5426 Walnut For directions call 621 1025
Shadyside
Classified Ads
VW 1970 deluxe bus with sunroof, camp
equipment, everything new. Must sell 
$2000. 244-1357.
Shadyside: working mother desires woman
to share house. $100 plus half utilities. 
Call 6-11 pm. 361-4937.
Female Roommate needed to share room
in townhouse apartment in Oakland, 5 
minutes from C-MU and Pitt. Call 
687-0023.
PIONEER SA-9100 amp. List: $450, Sale:
$340. POINEER TX-9100 tuner. List: 
$350, Sale: $260. These units are brand 
new with factory warranty. 682-3442.
Silva Mind Control enables you to gain
control over and function with Awareness 
in the subconscious levels of mind for en
hancement of intuition, creativity, moti
vation, mental attitude, memory, con
centration, health, athletic activity. Mind 
Control is not hypnosis, T.M., or the power 
of positive thinking. Attend an Intro
ductory Lecture Wednesday, Feb. 6, 7:30 
p.m. at C-MU, Skibo or Thursday, Feb. 7, 
8 p.m. at University and City Ministries, 
4401 5th Ave. Admission $1.00. Call 
793-5517 for more information.
For Sale: Univox 6 string acoustic guitar 
with case and strap. Excellent condition. 
Ten free lessons thrown in. Also: Soft but 
sturdy guitar case with strap. Great for 
hitching. 687-7034 til 2 am.
Wedding Photography with a difference.
Misties, Fantasies, Candids and Formals in 
rich, glowing color. Flexible plans special
ly prices for student budgets. Call 
523-5660 after 7 pm. weekdays, and any 
time weekends.
CMU Professor: unique house for sale.
Point Breeze 8 rooms 4 baths 2/4 fire
places, sun-room, w/w carpeting built-in 
shelves-desks great street. SAVE $25,600. 
243-5745 or extension 496.
'65 Olds, new inspection (thru July), new
tires & brakes; good transportation. $250.
683-5835.
Dog: year-old female, spayed, needs good
home. Free. Call 621-8763.
Lost: one gold cross pen last seen in
cashier's office. Reward for return. Call 
687-5594.
Desperate: Lost sunglasses, - wire rim,
prescription, only good for me. Daniel, 
521-5759.
Henceforth, free announcements will be 
given to organizations:
1) located within the Pittsburgh city limits, 
and 2) advertising events that are non
commercial and without admission charge.
Events that do not fit this description may 
be advertised in the same manner as classified-5cents/word, payable in advance.
This year, WRCT and Dr. Richard M. Cyert
will continue their series of monthly radio 
interviews. Host Ralph Guggenheim, Chris 
Infante (TARTAN Editor-in-Chief) and 
Bev Robinson (WRCT News Director) will 
speak with the President of CarnegieMellon University from 6 to 7 p.m. this 
Tuesday, February 5. Join them for the 
first of this monthly series.
An intercollegiate Slovak dub is in the
process of formation. Determination of 
goals and purposes will be the topic at the 
next meeting on February 7 at 8:00 p.m. 
in Room 113, Cathedral of Learning at 
Pitt. Interested persons can obtain more 
information by calling Greg Martin at
682-8959.
Arnie Karr, Frank Napoli, and Dave Hochendonner will discuss the FM-ization of 
WRCT when they are interviewed by Sue 
Zimmerman on "Perspective C-MU" on 
Wednesday, February 7 at 6:30 p.m. Re
broadcast will be on Sunday, February 10, 
at 8:00 p.m. on WRCT.
Applications are now being accepted for
the Mayor's New York City Urban Fellow
ship. The program spans the academic year 
from September to June of 1974-75. A 
stipend of $4,000 and transportation to 
and from New York City are provided. 
Participating universities contribute $500 
to stipend and grant academic credit. 
Seniors or graduate students may apply by 
February 15. Applications can be obtained 
from the Financial Aid or Fellowship Of
fice at CMU or write to Dr. Leonore Loft, 
Director, New York City Urban Fellow
ship, 250 Broadway, New York, New 
York.
Professor Mervin Alleyne will lecture on
"Creole Languages and Culture of the Car
ibbean" on February 13th. He will speak at 
the Library of the Black Studies 
Department, 3804 Forbes Avenue.
An Undergraduate social will be held at
Duquesne University on Saturday, Feb
ruary 9 at 9 pm. in the Duquesne Room, 
3rd floor, Duquesne Student Union. A 
square dance and movie shorts will be the 
theme. It is sponsored by B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish University Center.
Israeli and Folk Dancing is held every
Monday, 7:30 pm. in the 3rd floor H i I lei 
Lounge, Y-l KC (across from Heinz Chap
el). It is sponsored by B'nai B'rith HillelJewish University Center.
Cafe Tel Aviv is open Monday-Thursday
from 11:30-1 for lunch. Thursday is deli 
day- corned beef or pastrami. Third floor, 
Hillel Dining Club, Y-IKC, across from 
Heinz Chapel. It is sponsored by B'nai 
B'rith hi Ilel-Jewish University Center.HOW WELL CAN YOU SELL?
The TARTAN Business Staff needs help for 
its advertising operations. We are about 
to launch a brand new ad solicitation cam
paign and a few new dedicated members 
would insure success. Business majors, this 
is a chance to obtain direct advertising ex
perience and some marketing skills. The 
only requirement is a willingness to work. 
If you have no prior knowledge or ex
perience, we will be happy to train you. 
The majority of the work deals with local 
and campus-group advertisements. If in* 
terested, contact:
Lester Nathan 
extension 656 or 481 
Skibo 51

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 5, 1974Page 5
SAG Lists Members
In an effort to inform students about 
Student Advisory Committees, Faculty 
Senate has provided the following list of all 
SAC members in all Departments.
Senate wishes to emphasize that the 
primary function of SAC is the communi
cation and discussion of departmental 
policies and decisions.
One area of policy suggested for SAC 
consideration is that of tenure. An April 
1972 report by Faculty Senate suggested 
that departmental promotion and tenure 
committees consult with SAC prior to 
making decisions.
Any opinions about this or other areas 
of concern can be communicated to De
partmental SAC members.
English: Stanley Muschweck, Tony Killian, 
Maureen Rolla, Vicky Stein, Libby Gard
ner, Margaret Wacker, Ellen Stelber, Julie 
Milgran, Sarah Strong.
GSIA: Stephen Bickford, Neil Kleinfeld, 
Elaine Buttrum, James Lohmeyer, Robert 
Devlin, Robert Rizzo, Michael Gilboy, 
Russell Rubin, Marcia Ginsbertg, Mark Sadok, Bruce Hoffman, Granville Sawyer, 
Douglas Kelner, Walter Cervoni, Nancy 
Edwards, Douglas Mathera, Thomas Meek, 
Linda Norum, John Pritchett, Thomas 
Shaffer, Henri-Michael Tranchimand, 
George Wallace, Ted Fetterman.
Student Advisory Committees 
1973-74
History: Martin KJine, Francis Richards, 
Michael Baurer, Matt Newburger.
Administration and Management Sciences: 
Alan Vecci, Kevin Clark, Donald Bolden, 
Andrew Beary. Scott Moon', John Sisson.
Architecture: Steven King, Clare Russell, 
Stephen Farneth, Robert Zverina, Gregory 
Woodring, Vijay Ghate.
Biotechnology: Harvey Borovetz, Ray
Fretterd, Michael Duffy, Conrad Wall, 
James Hamerly.
Biology: Paul Mervis, George Zubenko, 
Yale Mitchel, Mike Essig, John Wizzard.
Metallurgy and Material Science: Farrel 
Bruce Heifer, Bruce G. McMordie, Todd 
Gross, Mike Shearer, William Rish, An
thony Hickl, Thomas Hartman.
Mechanical Engineering: D. Burgess, J. Sivak, D. Fink, M. Pechnyo, D. Clyme, Stu
art Glazer, Marita Howell.
Mathematics: Patricia A. Chlebik, William 
Chismar, Pamela Clement, Rhonda Cohen, 
Diane Detig, Sally Greenberg, Robert 
Scheid, Scott Spector, David Yorkgitis.
Chemistry: John Nelson, Sue Zlotnick, 
Barbara Toole, Bonita Rohn, Joseph Merola, Richard Kashmar.
Civil Engineering: Ralph Domenick, Elly 
Zimmerman. Steve Etkin, Dan Streyle, 
Keith McCabe, Wayne Pfederhirt, Bill Ibbs, 
Mark Langg.
Chemical Engineering: Deborah Oswald, 
Jim Miller, Gregory Martin, Jim Moon, Will 
Bromley, Neal Taybler, Carol Nemetz, Lin
da Halas, Martin Francis, George Newman, 
Leonard Bell, Bob Weinheimer, Mike 
Swartzlander. Diane Biel, JoAnne Schnei
der, Mike Massey, Jack McGovern, Bill 
Ludwico.
Design: Matthew Dowling, Kim Wolpert, 
Erica Gees, Patrice McFarland, Devon 
Happersett, Mary Wallace, Brian Roberts.
Drama: Steven Fairchild, Paula Kascel, 
Charles Mathes, Larry Schoeneman. Phil 
Cochren, Norman Rene, Mark Frost, Alvin 
Sanders. Michael Doherty, Ronald Ferro, 
Edward Bryant. James Mees.
Music: Lori Tiberio, Dave Rorick, Mary 
Beth Lewis, Mike Megahan, Dane Skroupa, 
James Clair, Steve Bell, Alan Klein, Becky 
Reese, Rick Coulter, Sarah Wallans, Bruce 
Caviness, Lisa Varga, George Rau.
Physics: Lynn Patch, Paul Clifford, Ross 
Potter, Pat Salapow, Richard Schwartz, 
Tom Silvis, Marty Greenstein. David Weintraub.
Psychology: Laverne Blackwell, Cynthia 
Davis, Shelia Ewing, Sara Friedman, Diane 
Carter. Pearl Fletcher, Paula Gross. Eileen 
Heisman, Ann Hess, Ann Kramer, Steve 
Michaels, Oscar Petite, Carol Shapiro, John 
Shettel, Mary Harris, Daryl Hlavsa, Karen 
O'Toole. Larry Bayer. Bob Lewis.
Painting and Sculpture: Mindy Maier. Stan 
Klein, Joe Pepe, Deborah Wild. Roger Du
mas.
Statistics: Robert Shore. Sheryl Kelsey, 
Patricia Colt man.
Electrical Engineering: Craig Wisman, Tom 
McWilliams. Peter Michaelson, Kenneth 
Knowles. Barry L.ipsitz, Art Fisher, Mike 
Price, Benjamin Hyde, Tom Lane, Steve 
Correll, Tom Fit/gibbons.
Center for Special Studies: Todd Heath, 
Laurie Norris, Joann Pacifico, Kay Nord
strom, Marion Saunders, Julius Bremer, 
Dave Deutsch, Frank Napoli, Marleen 
McDonough.
Three
represent
ropolitan
finals.
Cher\ 
C-MU ai 
won firsi 
Nim too 
Janet K;i 
auditions 
The re
THREE C-MU MUSICIANS IN OPERA FINALS
students of Beatrice Krebs will 
the Pittsburgh district in the MetOpera National Councils regional
Kanfoush, a 1970 graduate of 
d private student of Ms. Krebs, 
place: senior music major Craig 
k second; and graduate student 
ne tied for third in the district 
held last week.
irioiuil finals will be held in Cleveland on February 10th. Winners will then 
compete in New York for scholarships or 
possible Metropolitan Opera contracts.
Beatrice Krebs is an associate professor 
of music here and was recently named Out
standing Teacher of 1973 by the Pennsyl
vania Music Teachers Association. Ruth 
Topping, also an associate professor, served 
as co-chairman for the district competition 
and as staff accompanist.
If you're good enough, 
you can be a Navy Nuclear 
Officer
Aboard every Navy nuclear-powered 
ship, there are officers from colleges 
just like this one. The point is that to be 
considered for this extraordinary program, 
you dont have to go to the Naval Academy 
... or join the NROTC. What the Navy needs 
now are some very special college students/ 
graduates who aren't afraid to find out 
how good they really are. Who will 
consider our extensive and demanding 
training program (designed by the Atomic 
Energy Commission), the most exciting 
challenge of their lives. A challenge that 
offers an ambitious college student/ 
graduate an exciting future as a Naval 
Officer, with his first assignment being a 
nuclear-powered surface ship or a 
submarine.
Talk it over with your local recruiter.
Call him at 644-5897, or call 800-841-8000 
toll free anytime. Or send in the attached 
coupon.
Be a success in The New Navy
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SEND TO:
j Lt. Ed Johnson 
I Navy Recruiting District 
1000 Liberty Avenue 
I Pittsburgh, Pa. 1 5222
I Gentlemen:
I am interested. Please forward more information on 
| Nuclear Propulsion Officer requirements.
I Name ________________________________________Age_________
I Address ___________________________________________________
I City _______________________State_________________Zip_____
I Current College Year_________________________________________

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6THE TARTANTuesday, February 5, 1974
THE OTHER HALF:
Catn America Ke- Viewed
by Shelley Burhans
Andrade. Vallejo. De la Cruz. Hernan
dez. Marti. Neruda. Puig.
To many, not only at C-MU but else
where in the U. S., these names are mean
ingless, perhaps even unpronounceable. Yet 
these Latin American authors are rapidly 
receiving recognition  ... in all corners of 
the U. S. according to Professor Jose 
Varela-Ibarra of the C-MU Modern 
Languages Department. Facilitating that 
recognition is a C-MU based publication, 
the Latin American Literary Review.
The Review was initially the idea of 
Professor Yvette Miller, also of the C-MU 
Modem Languages Department, who stated 
that there was  . . . not one journal in 
English devoted to Latin American litera
ture, to aquaint English-speaking people 
with that literature. Professor VarelaIbarra reinforced her sentiment, mentioning 
the author Marti. He was one of the major 
leaders of his generation, and is considered 
one of the greatest Latin American 
authors. His works constitute 26 volumes, 
yet the single available work of his in the 
U. S. is in Spanish ...
Professor Miller and Professor Carlos 
Navarro of Louisiana State University (a 
former classmate of Professor Millers at 
the University of Pittsburgh) opened the 
review to submissions of critical work in 
the summer of 1972, backing the experi
ment with their own funds.
The first LAL Review was sent to press 
in December 1972. Subscription orders 
were received immediately from major 
universities in the U. S. and abroad. Within 
a year, private subscribers numbered 390. 
Professor Varela-Ibarra noted that this was 
rather unusual in that amount of time. 
Many publications that have been estab
lished for thirty years have 1,000 sub
scribers. According to the editors, con
tacts both with writers and subscribers 
continue to expand. (Michael Mesaros, a 
C-MU graduate, and Sally Schneider, a 
C-MU senior, recently returned from Latin 
America, bringing with them contacts with 
writers there for the LAL Review )
Men of Letters: Citizens of America, 
rather than of a particular country.
Recognition of Latin American authors
and their work has been, according to Pro
fessor Miller, a 30-40 year process, begin
ning in Europe and subsequently showing 
its influences in the U. S. She stated that 
recognition became very acute in the 
60s, particularly recognition of authors 
such as Gabrielle Garcia Marquez (author 
of One-Hundred Years of Solitude).
The land from which the nature of that 
literature is inherited is, beyond all else, 
one of diversity-social, cultural, artistic 
and geographic , from the mountain 
Indians and tribal customs to the coastal 
cities and university centers, including all 
that lies between. Literature, both oral and 
written, is indigenous to the various cult
ures.
How can the literature of a land so vast 
be summoned under one book jacket? 
Luis Leal of the University of Illinois deals 
with that question in an article entitled 
The Nature of Latin American Litera
ture ( LAL Review Fall 1972):
(Politically) Latin America is divided 
into 18 Republics and the Free State of 
Puerto Rico . . . (the national sectors are) 
conscious of their cultural autonomy and 
proud of their national literature . . . (but) 
Spanish Americans speak a common lang
uage, share a common history and have a 
common heritage, factors which give 
homogeneity to the literature. He quotes 
the late critic Pedro Henriquez Urena, who 
commented, In colonial times, strange as 
it may seem to unsuspecting ears, one of 
the guiding principles of that society, after 
religion, was intellectual and artistic cul
ture. It was the crown of social life, just as 
sanctity was the crown of individual life.
Leal continues, After Independance 
(from Britain), a factor which had great 
influence in the preservation of the literary 
unity attained during the colonial period 
was the emergence of men of letters who 
considered themselves citizens of America 
rather than of any particular country.
In its content, however, the literature 
also reflects the diversity within Latin 
America. Those unsuspecting ears often 
have heard little of Laftn America, and so 
entertain concepts of that half of the con
tinent which can almost be relegated to 
isolated words: revolution, poverty, 
jungle, exciting, exotic. And among 
the concepts is that of Latin America as 
irrelevant to North America. There are 
many who refute this (and the former con
cepts) beyond voicing, as many Latin 
American authors do, that Northern 
(corporate) influences are irrepudiably evi
dent in Latin America. According to the 
editorial board of the LAL Review, The 
Cuban writer Jose Marti once said that our 
America has a lot more to offer than most 
people realize. Our review intends to prove 
that he was right.
The New World Renewed
Academic acclaim of the review has 
been wide, both from university Modern 
Language and English Departments and 
from editors of other journals. One indi
cation is the response received by the LAL 
Review editors from Dr. Thomas Hoeksema of the New Mexico State University 
English Department: Your journal pro
vides the most comprehensive and rigorous 
forum for the dissemination of new criti
cism in the area of Latin American litera
ture and the arts. Similar responses have 
been received from Stanford, Purdue, and 
the University of Texas at Austin, among 
others.
The LAL Review, of which two editions 
have been printed thus far, is an extensive 
and disciplined compilation of diverse and 
intensive articles, reviews and author inter
views, and (some) creative writing. The 
articles bear such titles as Marti and the 
Problem of Generations, The Demise of 
Feudal Society, The New Face of Boli
vian Fiction, On the Oral Literature of 
the Araucanians (an Indian tribe of Latin 
America). The Fall 1972 Edition includes 
A Conversation with Jorge Carrera An
drade, a Latin American poet who spoke 
at a number of North American universities 
in 1971 when that interview was obtained. 
The reviews are primarily of recent litera
ture.
The LAL Review , however, is not liter
ally confined to Latin American literature. 
It also includes articles such as Contem
porary Chicano (Mexican- American) Prose 
Fiction and an article on The New South 
American Cinema.
A cursory review of the articles them
selves, and the impression of the scope and 
power of Latin American literature gained 
therein, reveals that Latin America is not a 
decaying land, not a morass of primitive 
cultures, nor is it falling apart at the 
seams; that it is not represented by th
myths so often lying dormant behind the 
media-measured language used in North 
America to describe the Southern America. 
It is a land of revolution, but the political 
(revolution) is just one medium, as it 
would seem to be anywhere. The revolu
tion-forward changeexists in Latin 
Americas art and in the foundations of 
that art: the history, the land, the people 
and the soul of Latin America.
Louis Monguio of UC Berkeley writes in 
the Review (in an article dealing with the 
poetry of Pablo Neruda),  . .. this world 
(Latin America) was not wrongly or in vain 
called (the) New (world). It is a world still 
surging, still coming to be, in quest of its 
own forms and its own destiny.
In his interview with Jorge Carrera An
drade (previously mentioned here), William 
Straub of the University of Pittsburgh 
asked the author, Is poetry to be a ceme
tery of bones,, as Neruda states, or is it to 
be the world of Aurosia ( from Sp. land of 
gold, or higher things)?
Andrade replied, At the time in which 
Neruda wrote his Residencia en la Tierra 
(Residence on Earth), the world was a 
cemetery of bones; however, humanity 
since that time has departed from destruc
tion to the construction of a new world. 
We ought to have the hope that the world 
will be a new Aurosia, especially our new 
world.
That is, the world which the Latin 
American Literary Review attempts to 
open to the literate of North America.
If you just feel like talking, drop in or call 
Peer Help. 150-A Baker Hall, 687-7414.
Taj Mahal Restaurant
5151 Clairton Blvd., Route 51 South
 NOW OPEN 
Distinctive Indian Cuisine * 
Buffet every Fri.: $4.75 per Person | 
FOR RESERVATIONS: CALL 881-9500 
SaturdayLadies Dinner, Vi Price &
a multi-sensory, folk-rock elucidation 
of life, love, justice and truth
i1Ul1DtD
Skibo Ballroom 
February 12 to 16
Tuesday 9 pm Wednesday 9 pm Thursday 12 noon Friday 11 pm Saturday 9 pm

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 5, 1974Page 7
# SKIBO FOOD SERVICE
The Way Things Are
continued from page 1
suggestions from some students who pre
ferred variety to quantity.
Dr. Rutledge was asked how he could 
t square those suggestions with the results of 
a poll taken last year after a brief experi
ment that substituted fancier menus and 
larger portions for seconds. The poll 
showed students preferred seconds by a 
wide margin. Rutledge replied that the ex
periment wasnt a very accurate test of 
sentiment because last years Food Service 
administration bungled its attempt at proI viding higher quality.
What I heard about that was that the 
basic plan wasnt fair because they didnt 
come through with what theyd promised, 
added Ms. Cohen.
$30,000 Loss Predicted
Another obstacle the administrators say 
restricts the flexibility of the Food Service 
f operation is a lack of detailed data on its 
internal operation; they say they cant 
compare accurately the costs of Morewood 
and Skibo, or the costs of seconds versus 
the costs of increased variety.
Though better accounting procedures 
are in the works, at present they cant even 
say exactly how much money Food Service 
has lost so far this year, 
p They predict a $30,000 loss for this 
year out of a total business of $1.3 million. 
Food Service lost twice as much last year. 
And, Dr. Rutledge notes, even these Figure? 
dont include the costs of some salaries and 
building usage. ,,
The Dittoed Sheet
Both administrators expressed surprise 
| at the impassioned student reaction to the 
sheet of paper Food Service circulated sta
ting how much food contract holders could 
take.
We never expected it to be taken as a 
change in policy, said Ms. Cohen, who 
insists that the paper was merely a restate
ment of rules in force since the beginning 
of the year.
But Ms. Cohen admitted that the com
plete rules had never before been listed and 
distributed to students so that no com
parison could be made.
She said that the paper was meant for 
cashiers as well as for students, and ex
plained:
The fact was that there were many 
students who were taking much more than 
the allocated food pattern. . 
Uncooperative Cashiers?
Ms. Cohen, who says that enforcement 
of the rules has probably been more lax 
and irregular than she, originally thought, 
plans to develop a specific list of allowable 
substitutions.
And as for the cashiers who havent 
been enforcing all the rules, she says the 
situation for them has probably been diffi
cult and confusing.
What Im doing now is meeting with 
them, getting them indoctrinated into what 
the procedures.are. They have to use judg
ment when a student asks for something.
Asked if some of her employees resent 
being told to deny students food, she ad
mitted, Im not sure acceptance has been 
as great as I had thought... Were work
ing on it, having meetings with people . . .
Many of our line employees are mothers
and they like to see kids well fed.
Possible Changes
The administrators claim that C-MU stu
dents are already enjoying generous food 
policies.
The people at other schools say were 
crazy here, said Dr. Rutledge. He says 
that a typical food service would require a 
student to buy a contract specifically for 
Morewood or Skibo rather than allowing 
him a meal- by-meal choice of where to 
eat. And he says that the policy of offering 
a meal in the evening at a snack bar like the 
Tartan Grill is unheard of elsewhere.
But they are, nevertheless, talking about 
ways to improve the system. One of the 
most concrete proposals would offer AMS 
majors academic credit for conducting 
market surveys to determine student pre
ferences.
And one of the things Dr. Rutledge 
would like to study is whether students 
and their parents would be willing to aban
don a fixed-price meal plan for one that 
would issue the student a kind of charge 
card and bill him for the amount of food 
he eats.
But such a system would obviously take
a long time to implement even if people 
liked the idea, and for now students can 
expect smaller changes- one of them a $75 
increase in the contract price next year, 
part of the $195 increase in combined 
housing and food rates that President Cyert 
announced last September.
Lack of Communication
The administrators feel the boycott 
stemmed mainly from poor communica 
tion between students and university.
My impression was, from asking 
around, that the students who organized 
the thing were uninformed ... I hope the 
main issue was a failure on our part to 
communicate (our reasons for cutting 
seconds in Skibo), said Dr. Rutledge.
The only thing I didnt understand is 
why, if students were upset, they didnt try 
to communicate through their own groups. 
Thats what I was counting on, said Ms. 
Cohen.
Peer Help deals with drug emergencies, 
questions concerning drugs and medical 
referrals. Baker Hall 150A, 687-7414.
CIT -MIS 
Crack Down On Incompltes
by Tom Kendig
4
CIT-MIS will begin enforcing its rules 
concerning incompltes, according to 
Assistant Dean Robert Kail.
Kail sums up the major change this way: 
At the end of the semester I will make all 
incompltes from the semester before 
failures.
In the past, the one-semester time limit 
for making up courses was not always 
strictly adhered to.
The decision to crack down on in
compltes was a result of the large number 
of incompltes received by CIT-MIS under
graduates last semester. Out of about a 
thousand students, 85 had a total of 
99 incompltes.
QPAs for those students cannot be 
computed until the course is completed. 
This presents a major problem to admini
strators, who have decided that enforcing 
the one-semester time limit is the best 
solution.
Bethlehem SteelsLOOP COURSE,Management Training Program,
has opportunities for young men and women with 
technical and business backgrounds who wish to acquire 
the management skills to make them leaders in technical, 
administrative, or sales management.
Our representatives will be here on 
February 28 & March 1,1974
Lets talk about it*.
UTMItHC* IT itAn equal opportunity 
employer

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 5, 1974
OPPORTUNITY FOR GRADUATE 
MECHANICAL OR INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERS
If you are about to graduate in Mechanical or Industrial Engineering 
or are already a graduate in one of these areas, we invite you to consider 
our new M.S. program in Manufacturing Engineering.
Manufacturing engineers are those concerned with the planning and 
selection of methods of manufacture, the design of equipment for 
manufacture, the improvement of established manufacturing techniques 
and the development of new ones.
As a result of the rapid expansion of the manufacturing research 
program at the University of Massachusetts, several excellent research 
assistantships are now available. These assistantships have stipends 
ranging from $4,000 to $6,000 per year plus waiver of tuition.
Those who are interested should complete the form below and send
it to:
Dr. C. Poli
Mechanical Engineering Department 
University of Massachusetts 
Amherst, Mass. 01002
. -ijf y CUI>JL, JC JIU Hi;.Please send me additional information concerning research assist
antships in manufacturing engineering.
NAME ____________________________________________TELEPHONE___'____________
ADDRESS ________________________________________ '__________________________
B.S. IN______________FROM____________YEAR_____________GRADE POINT AVG. ______
.and all good things must come to an end.
The Womens liberation movement has 
attacked many socio-economic constraints 
on the status of men and women. One 
strong area of influence not often address
ed is that of the Church and the JudeoChristian culture on ones attitudes about 
the sexes. L
Elaine Morgans book The Descent of 
Woman, states: According to the Book of 
Genesis, God first created man. Woman 
was not an afterthought, but an amenity. 
For close on two thousand years this holy 
scripture was believed to justify her subor
dination and explain her inferiority; for 
even as a copy she was not a very good 
copy. There were differences. She was not 
one of His best efforts.
This thought is taken a step further by 
Ms. Nancy Van Vuuren in her book The 
Subversion of Women as Practiced by 
Churches, Witch-Hunters and Other Sexists
when she says:
The Church has historically related sex 
and motherhood hy labeling fhe fprmer as 
evil, the latter as good. No wonder the 
pope is concerned about the talk of birth 
control and abortions. Perhaps if women 
do not have several children to look after; 
they will have time to seduce men, and to 
make their way into the hierarchy of the 
Church. For women to be free of the sex 
object and motherhood stereotyping would 
be for them to be free to function as per
sons in the society.
The implications of these statements 
will be discussed by Ms. Nancy Van 
Vuuren, who is presently President of the 
Pennsylvanians for Womens Rights, and 
Rabbi Phillip Sigal, Executive Director of 
the- BNai BRith Hillel and the Jewish Uni
versity Center.
Rabbi Sigal has been concerned for the 
liberation of women in liturgical niatters-of 
the Jewish Church for a period of years. He 
has published many articles dealing with 
this and is an active member of the Rabbin
ical Committee on Jewish Law of the 
Rabbinical Assembly, and has been able to: 
turn its attention to the equalization of 
womens status in Jewish law.
GENESIS: REVISITED
OR WHERE THE TRAIN GOT DERAILED
jtninoj usrti co sldfeia; nti vtMlw
n'ibuU lot 3h!;m sit tnoilqr ri^uorT 
.00.001? '{firtsvinu srit vuq m gnilliw 
; ol boon oiqoo i 08 /Isltrni/oiqqA
TUESDAY,^FEBRUARY 12
Esihbom bn nennqobvsb .ngia 
IDO12:30 p.m
BRING
Rm. 33,
bn noiinubs no b9?d sib 9h!2 iniiieJg 
U RiHSClTN C H 'V ^ ^  iw
-j(. eyi^oiofiii 
iit lliw y9rJ. Jer 
bn nwontf ert
-92no3 ,9b9lw;
RABBI PHILLIP SIGAL 
Executive Director 
B'Nai B'rith Hillel, Jewish University Center
MS. NANCY VAN VUUREN 
President, 
Pennsylvanians for Women's Rights
photo by Rose
Walking To 
Mellon Institute
by Kevin lurcotte
The campus bus that runs to Mellon 
Institute throughout the day will probably 
be discontinued in the near future.
The most likely thing is that well just 
run it until the end of the year, and then 
discontinue it. said Ron Rutledge, Head 
of Operations.
Dr. Rutledge, in a memo to the six 
Academic Deans* Dean Swank, and Dirciit)r.of Budgeting and Planning Richard 
Van Horn, asked torfeedback 'on the pro
posal. Their responses' will determine the 
final decision.
The reasons Rutledge cited ;for the dis
continuation are:
The bus formerly used w6re out last 
year. The bus in use this year is rented at a 
cost of $4,000 annually. The (fest of a new 
one would be $5,000.
- The cost per year to ruri the bus is 
$14,000. 28,000 trips were taken last year, 
making the cost 50 cents per itudent per 
trip.
' J -t fHe t>us itself'1 lKriol adecMate for the rbqa ait; aiow aim r.i i?9uq ,  ,
Xrena?TfAllVehlT similar m^ a^port,. shuttle {?u^! .wouldicost about 
$3X),00(Xl
-rThe fuel shortage is a factor.
If the bus is discontinued, students 
would be forced to walk to and from 
Mellon Institute, as there are no plans for 
alternate transportation.
The final decision is expected shortly.
RESEARCH
Thousands of Topics 
$2.75 per page 
Send for your up-to-date, 160-fiage, mail order catalog. Enclose $1.00 to cover postage (delivery time is 
1 to 2 days).
RESEARCH ASSISTANCE, INC. 
11941 WILSHIRE BLVD., SUITE #2 LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90025 (213)477-8474 or 477-5493
Oar research material is sold for 
research assistance only.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 5, 1974Page 9
Renewable T imber?GIVE ME YOUR DOPE
AND OTHER WEEKEND INCIDENTSHousingProblems
Although it seems that were running 
out of everything these days, America does 
have one renewable resource: timber. Even 
holding onto this can be a full-time job as0 forestry and lumber industry officials do 
battle with over-zealous environmentalists, 
armies of destructive insects, and forest
fires to keep a ready supply of lumber at 
hand. In a special two-part report, the Feb
ruary Science Digest describes how 
scientists are helping the cause with every
thing from exotic insect perfumes to a 
unique model forest that only exists in the 
mind of a computer.

>
BNAI B'RITH HILLEL-JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
Undergraduate Social
SQUARE DANCE AND MOVIE SHORTS
Saturday, February 9( 9 p.m.
DUQUESNE RM, 3rd FLOOR,
DUOUESNE U. STUDENT UNION
ALL STUDENTS WELCOME
315 S. Bellefield Ave. (across from Heinz Chapel) 
621-8875
continued from page 1
youths coming from the direction of 
Skibo. They demanded his wallet and he 
handed it to them. They removed ten doll
ars, handed it back and, according to the 
students report, struck the student in the 
mouth.
No arrests have been made in con
nection with the incidents.
To wind up the late night-early morning 
events, Security arrested a 24 year old male 
who allegedly made suggestive advances to 
a C-MU Food Service employee.
As the woman got off her bus, the 
unidentified male followed her into the 
Skibo kitchen. He then followed another 
employee into the ladies room, repeating 
I want you. The employee locked herself 
in and Security was called to the scene. As 
three women, armed with kitchen knives, 
chased him out of the building, Security 
officer McCluskey apprehended him. The 
man was driven to St. Francis Hospital 
Saturday morning.
ENGINEERING  COMPUTER SCIENCE  MATHEMATICS
UNPRECEDENTED WORK...
UNPARALLELED OPPORTUNITY...
CAREERS AT THE NATIONAL
SECURITY AQENCY
"The cipher disk, tne of 
the world's oldest crypto
graphic devices, is a crude 
forerunner of the sophisti
cated communications secur
ity systems being developed 
and tested at NSA today.
Because of the nature and scope of the Na
tional Security Agencys mission, we can offer 
job challenge and career opportunities that 
are impossible to match.
AT NSA, we are responsible for designing and 
developing secure/invulnerable communica
tions and EDP systems to transmit, receive 
and analyze much of our nation's most vital 
information. The advancing technologies ap
plied in this work are such that they will fre
quently take you beyond the known and 
accepted boundaries of knowledge. Conse
quently, your imagination and resourcefulness 
are essential qualifications for success.
The Career Scene at NSA: Engineers will find 
work which is performed nowhere else . . . 
devices and systems are constantly being de
veloped which are the most advanced in the 
Western World. As an Agency engineer, you 
will carry out research, design, development, 
testing and evaluation of sophisticated, largescale cryptocommunication and EDP systems. 
You may also participate in related studies of 
electromagnetic propagation, upper atmos
phere phenomena, and solid state devices us
ing the latest equipment for advanced research 
within NSAs fully instrumented laboratories.
Mathematicians define, formulate and solve 
complex communications-related problems. 
Statistical mathematics, matrix algebra, and 
combinatorial analysis are but a few of the 
tools applied by Agency mathematicians. Op
portunities for contributions in computer 
sciences and theoretical research are also 
offered.
Computer Scientists participate in systems 
analysis and systems programming related to 
advanced scientific and operational applica
tions. Software design and development is 
included, as well as support in hardware de
sign, development and modification.
Starting salaries are based on education and 
experience, and increase as you assume addi
tional responsibility. Further, you will enjoy 
the varied career benefits and other advan
tages of Federal employment without the 
necessity of Civil Service certification.
Check with your Placement Office for further 
information about NSA, or write to: Chief, 
College Relations Branch, National Security 
Agency, Ft. George G. Meade, Md. 20755, 
Attn: M321. An equal opportunity employer, 
M/F. NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY 
Our representative will be on campusnsa
. . . WHERE IMAGINATION IS THE 
ESSENTIAL QUALIFICATlOfJ IST'
,NT
continued from page 1
weeks meeting, Jim Johnston, a member 
of the Senate (who was directly affected 
by a vacancy) sponsored a bill to change 
Housings procedures immediately in re
sponse to the notification he received. This 
was replaced by Steve Lees motion to 
merely stop Housings actions and study 
the situation. Lees motion was passed.
Another motion presented by Senate 
member Phil Koltun suggests that student 
participation be used in developing next 
years housing contract. The present con
tract is typically difficult to understand. 
Basically, it explains that the University 
reserves the right to move students when
ever necessary. According to Dean Swank, 
this clause, which seems to infringe upon 
the students wants, would only be en
forced in exceptional cases. Dean Swank 
sees financial benefits in relocating people 
to provide large areas to rent to convening 
groups unaffiliated with the school during 
the school year. He prefers that applicants 
visiting the University have their own 
rooms and winter renovations would 
necessitate reorganizing students. None of 
these ideas would carry through if an in
convenience is created for the students, he 
added.
In November Dean Swank developed a 
committee which included the Men and 
Womens Dorm Councils, Dean Milligan, 
Dean Williams, and Jim Curl (Director of 
Housing) for the purpose of clearly redraw
ing the Housing contract. Their intention 
was to hopefully motivate students to read 
and understand the contract. This com
mittee will now work in conjunction with 
representatives from Senate.
Spring vacancies in housing occur when 
students graduate early or leave the school 
for various reasons. Since contracts are 
signed for a period of two semesters, prob
lems arise. Contracts can, however, be 
broken in certain situations. A special 
agreement between Housing and the Fra
ternities enables pledges to move into the 
Fraternity house second semester thus 
breaking their housing contract with the 
university. This is to help the Fraternities 
maintain sufficient house occupancy. Jim 
Curl plans to change this procedure next 
year.
Students living in any of the school 
residences and simply wishing to live else
where are unable to break their contract. 
Though exceptions are made for students 
willing to pay the university $100.00.
Approximately 80 people need to re
consider their living situation. The dorms 
are operating now at 93% occupancy. 
Housing reports that students are paying 
extra fees to maintain their double rooms 
as singles and others are finding roommates 
on their own. Preparation of an explana
tory follow-up letter to that of January 22 
is being considered.
SUMMER JOBS
Guys & Gals needed for summer 
employment at National Parks, 
Private Camps, Oude Ranches and 
Resorts throughout the nation. 
Over 50,000 students aided each 
year. For FREE information on 
student assistance program send 
self-addressed STAMPED enve
lope to Opportunity Research, 
Dept SJO, 55 Flathead Drive, 
Kaiispell, MT 59901.
...YOU MUST APPLY EARLY....

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 5, 1974
William Meredith: n , I roet and Critic
by Stephen Saunders and Phillip Franklin
William Meredith, one of Americas best-known poets, is sending as poet-in-residence 
in CMUs English Department during this semester. He is on leave from Conneticut 
College in New London, Ct., where he is a Professor of English.
Meredith is conducting a fiction workshop and an advanced poetry workshop here. 
For the latter, he requested th English Department to invite selected students from 
five Pittsburgh colleges and universities to join with CMUs students.
Educated at Princeton, Meredith published his first book of poems, Love Letter 
From an Impossible Land, in the Yale Series of Younger Poets in 1944. Among the 
honors he has received for his literary work is the honorary degree of Doctor of 
Humane Letters, awarded by CMU in 1972. He has won the National Institute of Arts 
and Letters Loines Award for Poetry, and the Harriet Monroe Lyric Award of Poetry 
Magazine.
His poems and criticism have been published in the New York Times, The Partisan 
Review, The Hudson Review and Poetry Magazine.
Meredith: One of the reasons that I like this appointment at Carnegie-Mellon is that 
the department here had agreed to let me try, as a pedagogical device, taking the 
student writers into some high school classes to read their poems and short stories. 
And this is because I think the poets and fiction writers of America belong in the 
middle of things, and that they should contemplate the fact that they are not going to 
be writing for other English majors, and other English scholars, but for people who 
like poems and stories.
You get a pretty hard-boiled audience in a high-school class. Most of them think 
literature is a drag. We tried this when I was here before at the Poetry Forum, and 1 
guess the best you could say about it is that nobody got hurt, and we had a lot of fun.
photo by Rod Reilly
their poems really sounded. And we brightened up some of the English classes we went 
into just by making writing seem like an everyday, modern activity.
Franklin: Yeah, thats true. It would seem to me that in doing that youre encouraging 
the high school students to write as well.
Meredith: 1 suppose. Theyre very accomodating about it. The Pittsburgh Board of 
Education is rather open-minded compared to a lot of school systems. It probably 
causes a lot of trouble for the English teachers when the students start writing poems 
and stories, but thats the kind of trouble were all supposed to be in, anyways.
Saunders: What do you think of the Creative Writing set-up here 7 Do you think theres 
any hope for it?
Meredith: It would be impertinent to judge it on the basis of a weeks acquaintance. It 
seems to me to have a nice openness. . .
Saunders: Were having a few problems. The students feel that the creative writing 
program at this university is a step-child at best.
Meredith: Well, that simulates experience in the real world, too. I think creative 
writers ought to learn to feel fairly self-sufficient.
Saunders: Theyre still trying to fill Gladys Schmitts position. And a lot of evaluating 
is being done towards making the program more solid, or more saleable, to the upper 
echelons of the university. Do you have any ideas about creative writing programs that 
perhaps we could adopt?
Franklin: Whats the most interesting program in creative writing that youve seen in
the different universities youve visited?
leredith: The ones that I know about at Brown and Syracuse strike me as being very 
erious and respectable programs.
^ranklin: What particularly about the programs there seem good to you in terms of 
creative writing, and teaching?
Meredith: Mind you, Ive never taught at either of them, I just know people there. I 
think its as simple as this: what distinguishes the best writing schools is that they have 
a permanent faculty and full-time or at least fully committed writers.
In a grad school, you come in as a writer with the attitude that Im being paid 
because Im a hot-shot writer and I give the students an hour a day and thats it. Its 
not the same as having a student-teacher relationship with chosen students, as I have 
here. I prefer undergraduate teaching because theres an unpretensiousness about it, 
both in my role and in your role.
Franklin: Does your teaching of the two genres, fiction and poetry, differ?
Meredith: Well, in my case, I teach the two as nearly by the same devices as the two 
genres will allow. It seems to me that what we need is a sense of critical values and 
vocabulary and a sense of who we are. . . and then the workshop can deal with what 
students produce.
Saunders: Do you feel more comfortable teaching fiction or poetry. . . oris that a fair 
question?
Meredith: I do feel more comfortable with poetry. I feel a lot of excitement about 
fiction, but I dont think Im as articulate about fiction as I am about poetry. Ive been 
working with poems so much longer.
Franklin: Youve only written two stories in fiction, actually. . .
Meredith: Ive written a lot more than that; its just that theyre not right. They don't 
get passing grades from me. I have to write more, you know, and I think that it gets 
easier as I teach it.
Franklin: Because you re constantly thinking about what fiction is?
Meredith: Yeah. Looking very closely at fiction gives me a lot of subconscious training.
I think we do a lot of our creative work instinctively, and instincts are based on how 
much we have in the back of our head that we dont remember. I used to be much 
more concerned with the tradition and the form of poetry; now Im concerned with its. 
role in society.
Saunders: Poetrys role in society?
Meredith: About getting it, you know, back into the center of a culture the way it was 
in times of great cultural force and strength, as in the great periods of literature and 
society.
Saunders: Then youre concerned about social consciousness?
Meredith: Well, I think that there ought to be, in a culture thats having as much 
anxiety as ours, a sense of full life in the arts, as well. By that I mean tine arts. They 
are important in keeping the morale of our culture up. If you think about whats 
happening in America, what hasnt happened is that people havent changed. Theres 
no reason why. despite Watergate and Vietnam and the things that have depressed us 
so terribly, all of us cant live morally responsible and happy lives. Theres no reason 
for a person to be unhappy because the society and the culture is unhappy. And it is 
the artist who has the chance to make beautiful objects for us to see.
Saunders: Sounds like you re talking more about promoting art as a means of escape.
Meredith: Id say as a means of fulfillment, personal fulfillment, which can be a form 
of escape but which could include a form of successful engagement. Miserable and 
neurotic people are not necessarily more responsible than happy and developed 
people.
There was a philosophy in America after the Second World War called Personalism, 
and I believe that thats probably what I espouse. . . Personalism means that men and 
women have an obligation to fulfill themselves. It may sound frivolous to say people 
have an obligation to be happy because they are the only creative animals. But creative 
people socially are the people fulfilled by the society they ve made.
Franklin: Are you saying that you think people have to be happy in order to be
creative?
Meredith: Im saying it doesnt hurt. I dont think the creative act is primarily an act
of suffering but that it is primarily an act of fulfillment.
Franklin: / suppose if somebodyI writes about something theyre suffering the writing

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 5, 1974Page 11
TARTAN INTERVIEW CONTINUED
I would say suicides among the great artists of our time are people whose identities got fused with the whole culture.
would be getting it off their chest. 
Meredith: The writing of tragedy is the disarming of the experience through know
ledge. Do you understand? Theres a poem of Yeats called Lapis Lazuli where he 
talks about the fact that a work of art ends in delight, and we take delight from 
Oedipus Rex because of the fulfillment of the artist, I suppose.
Saunders: What about Hemingway? Some of his stuff is. . . well, I wouldn't call it 
joyful.
Meredith: Well, I have to admit the twentieth century has been very hard on its 
greatest artists. They seem in some cases to feel a responsibility for the decline of the 
culture. They identify themselves guiltily with our declining. I think the greater an 
artist is, the more he feels frustrated at belonging to a culture thats in decline. I would 
say suicides among the great artists of our time are people whose identities got fused 
with the whole culture.
Saunders: Theres another point I wanted to bring up. I heard you were once a 
reporter for the New York Times.
Meredith: When I first got out of college, and it was a rather short stint, I did work as 
a copyboy and then as a cub reporting on some news assignments. . . and then enough 
reviews and criticism so that I have some sense of that end of a newspaper. I used to 
write music reviews for the New London paper and opera critiques for a quarterly.
Saunders: Im interested in some kind of synthesis, in trying to merge the two 
disciplines, somehow. Creative writing and journalism.
Meredith: I believe writers should write for everybody or as nearly everybody as-their 
insights can be made available to. Good journalism is a very important art. Journalists 
who are artists are writing for newspapers like the New York Times and the Washing
ton Post. Theyre a very important morale factor in that we keep each other believing 
in society by demonstrations of excellence and virtue. Good journalism, the fact that 
someone can write eloquently about whats happening, is encouraging. It suggests that 
all the intelligence and idealism that goes into the reporting is also available for action.
I think that schools of journalism are rather limited in their usefulness; it seems to 
me that perhaps when you go through college you learn to write papers that are 
factual and articulate, and when you learn to be a newspaperman you learn by going 
out and writing stories. Of course, Im sure that the curriculum of a good journalism 
school like Columbias would surprise me with the relevance it has. As I understand it 
that school is staffed in large part with people who are practical journalists^ not 
scholars.
Franklin: You feel that for somebody to teach a form of writing they must participate 
in that discipline themselves?
Meredith: Yes, I do think that. Most of what is taught is something the talented 
journalist or other writer discovers for himself by exposure. It would not be possible 
for a first rate school of journalism to make journalists out of a class of average people. 
They would have to be aspiring journalists who wanted to go to that school. People
SPECIAL LECTURE ONMMD CONTROL*
AND
STUDENTS REPORT 
BETTER CONTROL OVER
 HEALTH
 MEMORY
 CONCENTRATION
 (ESP.)
 PRODUCTIVITY
 SALESMANSHIP
 PROBLEM-SOLVING
 HABITS
 WEIGHT
 SMOKING
 DRUGS
 SLEEP
 HEADACHES
 SPORTS
O VER 200,000 GRA D UA TES
THE SCIENCE OF TOMORROW - 
TODAY
YOU READ ABOUT IN
 LIFE
 NEWSWEEK
 NATIONAL OBSERVER
 MADEMOISELLE
 HARPER SBAZAAR
 NEW YORK TIMES
 LOS ANGELES TIMES
 WASHINGTON POST
 SALES MANAGEMENT
 MANY OTHERS
COME SEE FOR YOURSELF
 LECTURE  
Wednesday. Feb. 6, 7:30 P M
CMU, SKIBO
Thursday, Feb 7, 8 P.M
U. A. C. M.,4401 Fifth Street
Lecture .........$1 00 Admission
For more information, call 793 5517
already preselected by gifts or interests.
And, in the same way, it is preposterous to suppose that any of the creative writing 
schools in the country produce novelists and poets. It does not lie in the creative 
writing schools to produce creative writers, only to train them.
Saunders: Have you seen the new journalism and the things like Mailer and the 
peopleMeredith: Tom Wolfe?
Saunders: And other writers, is this an extension of journalism and creative writing, or 
do you see this as something totally different?
Meredith: Its an extension of journalism into a wider cultural responsibility. I think 
what these writers are doing is good, and theyre filling a vacuum in a society that 
doesnt make much use of its artists. Theyre artists who are used in a rather central 
area.
Saunders: I get the impression from talking to some people that the novel is moving in 
that direction, towards the Mailer-type first person.
Meredith: Ive heard that and I think it may be so. As much as I like what Wolfe and 
Mailer do, I dont think my opinion about them is very reliable, because I am a 
Personalist and an optimist and all of the things they arent, and I find the ironic and 
destructive element in Wolfe and Mailer is foreign to my own instinct. Very exciting, 
and vety informative, it reveals a lot that my insight will not reveal.
But if I had to say who the most important writers of works today are, I would not 
say they are Wolfe and Mailer, but people who sustain our ideals, some people who we 
dont pay much attention to, like Thorton Wilder, and, among the poets, people like 
Richard Wilbur and Elizabeth Bishop.
LESLIE DRESBOLDLESLIE DRESBOLD
SAVE $30... REG. $119.50 
ELECTRONIC CALCULATORS 
with Automatic SQUARE ROOT
Choose from Texas Instruments, Summit, 
Cirvus (make components for H-P), Melcor
 Reciprocal  Percentage
 Automatic Constant
 Raise-to-Power
 Floating Decimal
FITS
IN
POCKET8950
Operates on AC and DC 
Rechargeable Battery 
FULLY GUARANTEED
ra aJ o
?
7 9 9 
4 5 6R e
1 2 3la
I OD ' *
^IIIIIUIllUIIIIIHIUIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIHIIIIIIiimtlllllllimillllllllllllllillllllHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHI
| FREE .. .$5.00 DISCOUNT |
with this ad on these Calculators
^Itiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiilliiiiliililliiilllliiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiillllliiilllllilliiliiiiilt^
Tri-State's Top Specialist in Typewriters, Adders,
Calculators
TRADE-INS ACCEPTED .. .BUDGET
MASTER CHARGE and BANK AMERICARD
LESLIE DRESBOLD extnsiot65
DOWNTOWN MONROEVILLE SOUTH HILLS
Fort Pitt Typewriter 
613 Ltbert> Ave. 
Dial 281 8320 
Monday 9 to 8
4003 Wm Penn Hwy. 
Park Shop 22 nr GB 
Otal 372 8138 
Daily 11 8 Sat. 10 to 5
So Hills Village 
Oial 563 0330 
Dial 833 3299 
Daily 10 to 9:30
SHARPSBURG
925 Mam St 
Free Parking 
Dial 781 1308 
Daily 9 to 5:30

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 5, 1974
CNCERT : STAN KEMON
by Debbie Siegel
The big band sound arrived on Thursday 
night. Stan Kenton and his group psyched 
the crowd to states of delirium and easily 
incited a beat into the audiences collective 
mind and body.
How does Kenton and group accomplish 
such mass hypnosis? The formula is essent
ially to Blow the Horns and Beat the 
Drums. Kentons band is forceful, drives 
hard, and creates impact with musical com
positions from any time period.
1 would have settled for the first songs 
(which Kenton calls a warm-up), no quest
ions asked. As the band became more com
fortable, though, several talented soloists 
were revealed in swing arrangements with 
improvisations.
I found Herbie Erskin to be a particu
larly tine bass player. Often the bass player 
is overlooked simply because his part is 
underlying the music. But Herbie brought 
integrity to the bass, moving his fingers 
with amazing dexterity. The clarity and 
impressive register of baritone sax player 
Ray Reynolds was outstanding among the 
solos. Raymond Lopez brought out the 
finest in Cuban sound with smooth bongo 
technique. Lopezs control of the bongo 
transcended into the hearts of the aud
ience. The pace of my heart kept speeding 
up with his crescendos and hard driving 
rhythms.
Perhaps the biggest shock is that Stan 
Kenton doesnt seem to get off on his 
piano playing. There are very few songs 
that feature his playing. Kenton has been 
more revolutionary in setting the big band 
jazz style. He was most innovative in his 
use of swing arrangements with improvised 
solos. Although Kenton doesnt solo in the 
band very much, when he does its a treat. 
He knows how to make the simplest mel
ody effective.
Kenton explained, with much charisma 
and candor, This concert is being record
ed in quadrophonic. That means you can 
turn it on and not have to use any soap. 
The band, too, keeps a sense of humor and 
in the sense of staging, they are visually 
similar to Maynard Ferguson. Kentons 
brass section is strong and they have the 
power to give all the kings of brass com
petition.
As charts go, there is a variety of old 
and new. El Cordebo by Dale Devoe was 
originally written for a Spanish bullfighter. 
The bell tones that extend through the 
song make for an innovative sound. Kenton 
has brought in a lot of recent charts with 
this band. He seems to be particularly into 
Michele LeGrande. The concert began with
Where were you the Rest of Your Life? 
Mission Impossible was the concluding 
piece. A lot of the compositions moved in 
a pattern of slow to fast to slow. On the 
popular numbers, the band smooths any 
dissonance in the ear. The sould is tight, 
crescendos clear.
My only criticism is a selfish one. 1 only 
wish they could have played more. Going 
by the general audience reaction, the Big 
Bands may be here to stay. Kenton and the 
band definitely believe that, and they make 
us believe it.
I spoke to Stan Kenton briefly after the 
band finished its second set.
TARTAN-What direction do you think 
jazz is taking?
Kenton-Yes, 1 started studying piano. 
That was around when I was fourteen years 
old, right.
TARTAN-Who is your favorite musician?
Kenton-1 really dont have one favorite. 
There are a number of guys 1 respect, but 
theres no one guy.
TART AN-What do you think of Chick 
Carea who was voted number one pianist in 
Downbeat Mazazine?
Kenton-1 think hes great. Earl Hines was 
also one of the people who inspired me.
TARTAN-You went through a Cuban 
phase with Pedro Perez and tonight you 
played some numbers with Cuban overto%t. 2S. How does this movement fit into 
your music?
KentonI think theres a renewed interest 
in jazz bands, which Im thrilled with be
cause they really have never been gone, 
you know. Its just a thrill to think the 
young people are getting interested in big 
band jazz. The old fashioned dance band, 
of course, is extinct and probably will re
main so unless somebody starts going 
around and dancing in ballroom fashion 
again. So Im thrilled with it.
TAR TAN- When did you get involved with
jazz?
Kenton-When I was fourteen years old. I 
heard a little band in Southern California 
where I grew up in one of the beach cities 
playing some music. Id never heard it be
fore and I became so terribly excited that I 
ran around and started asking what kind of 
music it was. Some guy said it was jazz. I 
said, if thats jazz, then Im going to be a 
jazz musician.
TARTAN-Did you start playing piano 
right then?
TARTAN- What 
electronic music?
do you think of
m
Kenton-1 think Afro-Cuban rhythms are 
the most exciting in the world. Weve been 
playing them for a long while now.
TARTAN-The last time you were at 
C-MU, you spoke about classical music. 
People found your opinions on the subject 
to be quite controversial. Could you ex
plain where you feel the place of classical 
music is?
Kenton-1 think classical music certainly 
has got its place. Its the traditional music 
of all music. I dont think Id be a musician 
though if it werent for the music of jazz 
because I wouldnt be a musician if it were 
just traditional music. It doesnt hold any 
excitement for me.
TART AN-What do you think of a school 
like C-MU which places a much greater 
emphasis on the classical elements of 
music?
Kenton-They do have jazz here too.
TARTAN- Yes, they have the jazz band 
which I think is really good. You listened 
to it before your performance tonight. 
What did you think of C-MUs jazz band?
KentonIts excellent, under the directon 
of Alan Teare. Its wonderful.
TART AN-I was just trying to get at what 
you think of a school whose main emphasis 
is on classical rather than jazz.
Kenton-Well, thats the way it is with a lot 
of the major schools and universities. 
Theres still, on the other hand today, 
many that are teaching jazz as well as tra
ditional music.
1814 Murray Ave. 
Pittsburgh. Pa. 15217
in the big bands?
KentonIt might have in some other bands 
but I dont buy it.
TARTAN-What do you think of music 
education today?
Kenton-I think music education is getting 
better all the time because theyre not only 
teaching the young people about tradi
tional music, theyre teaching them about 
jazz too which prepares them for life in 
music, a complete life.
TARTAN-When did the band you played 
with tonight first come together?
Kenton-I don't know. The guy who I 
think has been in the band the longest is 
the first trombone player. Hes been with 
us for about nine years. Then they vary 
from that on down to six months.
Kenton-I dont buy it much. I think it has 
a synthetic sound. m. i'  v' ^ TA R TA N- Do  you think it has any placephotos by ropowitz

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 5, 1974-Page 1
Critics Choice??????????
sophisticated script. A flawlessly executed 
film, with a score that makes ironic use of 
the aria for a trio from Cosi fan Tutte.
4) Cries and Whispers- Vintage 
Bergman. The film details, in muted hues
and blood-red tones, the lives of three
sisters and their peasant servant-woman. 
Each represents a separate facet of the 
human experience, (i.e., Love, Death); 
together they make up a life. Ingmar 
Bergman has meticulously constructed this 
sheer, gripping film. There are moments of 
true lyricism andjagged violence, all 
delicately balanced to form a riveting 
yeircrw-brick-road my way through the nightfftkre; I was devastated by With Liv
twelve best movies I have ever seen. In Ullman and Ingrid Thulin.
order of prefererice, they are:
by Mark Evan Chimsky
A film critics Ten Best List should be as 
personal and select as his address book. 
Since it is that time of year again, I decided 
to officially review my favorite films. 
Unfortunately, this years stock of quality 
cinematic efforts has fallen drastically, and 
so I have invested my time in compiling an 
index of those movies which I hold dear as 
friends. The conglomeration is strange and 
satisfying, and I consider each a classic. As 
my love knows no conventional bounds, I 
have settled on twelve films, rather than 
the usual ten. Please indulge my whim as I
1) Women in Love- Ken Russells lushly
styled tribute to D.H. Lawrence. Every per
formance is carefully nuanced, rendering 
with fine detail the journeys of the heart 
and mans need to claim the worlds of 
female love and male love. It is as if all the 
technics, both mechanical and human, had 
unioned to form this singular, stunning 
masterpiece. Glenda Jackson composes her 
role with all the skilled fire of a master 
musician. Tempoed to the pulse of a man 
who viewed life with urgent passion and 
energy. Women In Love flows like poetry. 
Russells symbolic touches are possessed by 
gerffCis. Who can forget the shot of the dead 
lovers, muddied and nakedly entwined, 
dissolving into a close-up of Alan Bates and 
Jennie Linden (as the marriage-bound 
Birkin and Ursula), locked in the same 
hopeless/embrace? - *
f2) Cabaret-* Cabaret accomplishes what
no other itiOvie musical has managed yetto be a striking,  pritvoea{iye drama ir| 
which all the songs are perfectly integrated 
into the story lirie.^ Till is; Berlin*
when Hitler was on the rise and dim 
cabarets were in full bloom. DirectorChbreographer Bob Fosse achieves an 
atmosphere of decadent decay right from 
the start, with the dazzling opening 
number, Wilkommen. Thanks to him 
and some marvelously swift editing, the 
film races along at a staccato pace.'As Sally 
Bowler, Vthe^'gfrl with lieaYtJ t>f t-cTifctip\ 
champagne, Liza Minnelli vA\
comedy as well as the pathos of this wideeyed waif, who glides recklessly through - 
life, as if it were a glittery cabaret routine. 
Cabaret is intelligent and razor-edged. 
Perhaps the best movie musical ever made.
3) Sunday, Bloody Sunday- A 
brilliantly crafted film by John Schlesinger, 
concerning love and compromise and three 
people who learn about it the hard way. 
Peter Finch is magnificent as the homo
sexual doctor who shares his lover with an 
attractive divorcee (Glenda Jackson in a 
wry, emotion-charged performance). With 
this film, homosexuality was turned from a 
grotesque joke (The Boys in the Band) into 
something wholly commonplace and 
natural. The art of screenwriting was 
enhanced by Penelope Gilliat's sharp.
5) The Blue Angel- Marlene Dietrich as 
Satan in drag. This 1929 classic, far ahead 
of its time, was made in Germany by Josef 
von Sternberg. The story involves a cabaret 
performer named Lola and the shy, fussy 
schoolteacher who foresakes everything for 
her. Love, here, becomes mans most de
structive tool. Emil Jannings portrayal of 
Professor Rath is finely honed and 
ultimately chilling. Never was there a song 
more sinister and plaintive than Falling In 
Love Again as sung by La Dietrich. Note: 
Watch closely for the silent clown-its an 
inspired bit of foreshadowing.
6) Summer and Smoke- A haunting 
film, forged of loves fierce and bitter 
ironies. Alma (Geraldine Page) is a 
preachers daughter, alone, cloistered in a 
life of tea parties and piano lessons and 
unrequited spiritual love for the keenly 
virile doctor next door (Laurence Harvey). 
Time rudely etches its passage on Almas 
face, and her heart responds with a wild 
desperateness. After initially refusing the 
doctors ardent advances, years pass and 
she finally surrenders to the burning 
sexuality that has embered within her. But 
the interim has served to strengthen the 
doctors belief in a more noble, spiritual 
love. Suddenly, the tables have .turned 
with a vengeance. Each has adopted the 
others desire too late. Love has become as 
elusive as summer and smoke. Geraldine 
Pages deliberate, intense portrayal of Alma 
is breathtaking, climaxed by the impulsive
metamoj;ph.io$iMA!&}
Laurence Harvey as the doctor, and Rita 
N^Fb'iW a y W g^ih i.\ t IVe r' V a ra /i o i/i) i i fir'
Anita role, as (what else?) The Loose 
Woman. Directed by Peter Glenvrlle. and 
based on the play by Tennessee Williams.
7) Jules and Jim- Truffaut offers his 
genius with all the delight and purity of a 
bride. The film is a revelry of mans quest 
for the unpossessable woman. Jules and 
Jim are the males of this tragic-comic 
menage-a-trois. Simone Signoret is the 
restless Catherine. Beautifully photo
graphed, (each frame would make a lovely 
daguerreotype), the film is a wonderful 
work of art. And Siniyne Signoret has 
never looked more enchanting.
8) The Virgin Spring-* Early Bergman. 
This film relates, with shuddering force, 
the rape of a young peasant girl. It is the
kind of scene that remains with you a 
lifetime. The black and white cinema
tography intensifies the stark, remote 
mood of the film. Bergman, not unlike the 
author Mary Renault, is a master at 
recreating the entire feel of an era, 
foreign to us now. The medieval world 
comes alive, rich and textured as a 
tapestry. The parable-like ending is a 
wondrous, touching revelation.
9) Marat/Sade- Peter Brooks film of 
the Peter Weiss play, set in an insane 
asylum in Charenton. The inmates act out 
the French Revolution in blankly rehearsed 
style, as the white of the prisoji-like walls 
glares harsh and insidious. The musical 
pieces are exquisite. The Royal 
Shakespeare Company performs with offbalanced zest and bite, notably Glenda 
Jackson as a woman stricken with melan
cholia and forced to play Charlotte 
Corday. She delivers a speech about toy 
guillotines with a controlled rage that is a 
compelling triumph of film acting.
10) Thank You All Very Much- No one 
but me seems to like this film, which is a 
fragile, liitle story about a pregnant, un
married woman named Rosamund, who 
decides to have her baby. We are con
fronted with simple truths and the interior 
machinery of a woman, for whom life is an
obstacle course which must be quietly 
hurdled. As Rosamund, Sandy Dennis 
builds a reality that is truly heart-rending.
I 1) A Taste of Honey- Another odd 
film which concerns a young girls attempt 
to come to terms with lost love and preg
nancy. She is earnestly aided by a lanky, 
homosexual friend named Geoff. Together, 
orphans in a storm that will inevitably 
consume them, they set about structuring 
an idyllic fantasy life into which they may 
escape. It is a world fashioned of nursery 
rhymes and childish fancies. Jo and Geoff 
become Peter Pans caught in a race of 
**Hooks. Rita Tushingham, with her 
mystical, urchins face, has an innocence 
and spirited bravery that commands the 
film. The last moments, in which Geoff 
takes his leave amid a whirl of children, is 
remarkable.
12) Casablanca- You must remember 
this... Humphrey Bogart as suave 
cynicism personified is brightly matched 
by a radiant Ingrid Bergman. This polished 
gem of a film features Peter Lorre, Sydney 
Greenstreet, and the grand last line, This 
is the beginning of a beautiful friendship. 
When the French Marseilles overpowers 
and silences the Nazi rondelle, you feel like 
cheering. Great, even though no one ever 
really does say Play it again. Sam 
WILLIE DIXON
Author of such Blues Tunes as:
? "SPOONFUL
? "H00CHIE-K00CHIE MEN
? "WANG DANG DOODLE"
? "I JUST WANNA MAKE LOVE TO YOU"
Also appearing
I .A U '/lju 3HI.*n. PAUL LANGILLE
>!?|j
brmxb jEfit 29noi ibd 
no}/?3/i bnuo/ svijfivonm otu ioi j^tfri a 
fltiw ?lmrta irirjsi io fol c nt ifigiroirf
Location: Pitt Student Union Annex
(corner of South Bouquet & Sennot Sts.)
Date: Monday, February 11 thru Wednesday, 
February 13
TWO SHOWS EVERY NIGHT, 8:00 & 10:30
Reservations:
Call 624-5822
Reservations good until 1 5 minutes 
before showtime.
PRODUCED BY PITT S.G.
PROGRAMMING COMMITTEE

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 5. 1974
by Susan N. Klein 
Billy Joel/Piano Man
There are two attitudes one might take 
toward the appearance of Billy Joel here 
this week. You could ask, If Billy Joel is 
so good, why hasnt anybody heard of 
him? Or you could ask, If Billy Joel is so 
bad, why does he have a couple of albums 
out? The Activities Board gave me Joels 
new album, Piano Man to listen to, and it 
was surprisingly unpainful.
That Joel is easy to listen to is the most 
important thing to say. You cant classify 
his music with any particular genre, al
though I will assert that Billy Joels piano 
tales are startlingly similar to the music of 
Harry Chapin. In fact, Joel sounds like 
Chapins nasal little brother. Both Chapin 
and Joel tell tales in a straightforward, re
moved and relaxed third-person narrator
by Lisa Zeidner
Joni Mitchell: Court and Spark
In a recent National Lampoon satire on 
rock festivals, an announcer regretfully 
introduces Joni Mitchell. He explains that 
he met her backstage and promised to let 
her sing in exchange for her body. She 
bored the hell out of me,  he says, and 
now shell bore the hell out of you. Joni 
enters in a flower-child gown and a crown 
of daisies, proceeding to tirade another 
love who has let her down. Im gonna tell 
em your underwear are green, she 
threatens, her voice yodelling wildly.
Joni Mitchells love songs are a fitting 
Lampoon target. She is as much of a legend 
as Woodstock,' Hendrix, or the Grateful 
Dead. Notorious for her shyness and sincer
ity, Joni often gets flustered at concerts; 
she has been known to leave the stage if 
she feels the audience is unreceptive.
But Joni is not boring her audiences. 
The fact that her February 14th concert at 
the Syria Mosque sold out in a day attests 
to her popularity. She is one of the few 
female singers who can sing about love 
without oversentimentality; her mature 
perceptions and musical skill make even 
males appreciate her.
Jonis new album, Court and Spark, 
adds a new dimension to her love songs. It 
is, as Joni says, The Same Situation; 
my struggle for higher achievement and 
my search for love that dont seem to 
cease. Joni is still crying the plight of the 
eternally stepped-on: still falling in love 
and still getting hurt, till getting stood up 
at parties and bars. But her struggle is 
marked by a new optimism and self
esteem. The morose sighs of Blue and For 
the Roses, her last albums, have been re
placed with a strong and hopeful spirit: 
Throwing the lightness on these 
things/Laughing it all away; Lately I 
dont count on nothing/I just let things 
slide.
In line with the current movement 
towards literal poetry, Joni has simplified 
her lyrics. The lush metaphors of Blue 
(songs are like tatoos) and For the Roses 
(You Turn Me On Im a Radio) have 
faded *n Court and Spark. The lyrics are 
easier now: Send me somebody whos 
strong/and somewhat sincere, Joni sings, 
or We love our lovin/But not like we love
ON RE
manner. And even though Chapins stories 
are more interesting, Joel can do neater 
tricks with his lyrics. Moreover, he seems 
to flee from the Top-40s repeat-therefrain-forever syndrome like the plague, 
which is even more commendable.
Theres an old man sitting next to me 
making love to his tonic and gin. 
He says, Son can you play me a 
memory,
Fm really not sure how it goesBut its sad and its sweet, and I knew 
it complete
when I wore a younger mans 
clothes. 
Thats from the title tune, Piano Man, 
which is essentially about the Mr. Bojangles 
of song. It even has the exact same piano 
bass-line as Mr Bojangles. The best song 
on the album is called Travellin Prayer, 
with an ever-running lyric line where Joel 
does more scat-singing than crooning. The
our freedom. The rich poetry that distin
guishes Joni has not disappeared, though; 
she still sings of passport smiles in a 
world where heaven is full of astro
nauts/and the Lords on death row. But 
the simpler lyrics make the metaphors 
more powerful.
While the lyrics in Court and Spark are 
simpler, the music is more complex. Appar
ently tired of the old chord progressions, 
Joni has gotten Jose Feliciano, Cheech and 
Chong, and whole orchestras to elaborate 
her songs into jazz and hard rock. The gala 
productions on Court and Spark seem 
somewhat incongruous with her straight
forward, personal emotions. Thankfully, 
the ornate arrangements on Court and 
Spark balance with the simpler ones. Joni 
is strongest unadorned, as she is in Court 
and Spark, The Same Situation, and 
Trouble Child. She will hopefully not 
carry this new love for orchestration too 
far.
Court and Spark reveals that Jonis tal
ents have grown. The songs are more di
verse, even without the orchestration. Un
like former records, Lampoon could not 
accuse this of being one lyric-jammed, folk
sy love-lament. The tempos, voice range, 
and even the subject matter varies greatly 
as Joni sings of parties, train rides, and 
psychoanalysis.
Nor does Court and Spark seem like 
Joni .arbitrarily setting her sorrows to any 
music she can devise, as the Lampoon 
satire suggests. The album shows a re
markable sensitivity to harmonious musical 
and lyrical moods. The music is bitter or 
sweet when the lyrics are; it slows with 
Jonis failures, lifts with her spirits. When 
the Troubled Child breaks like the 
waves at Malibu, so does the music.
Following Joni Mitchells music is like 
following her life. Her two-album long 
affair with rock star James Taylor had 
made her gloomy; a woman of heart and 
mind who had to desperately wait for his 
attentions. But now James is married (to 
someone else) and Joni has had to look for 
new romances. Her search has not gotten 
her down yet. Court and Spark, while 
realistic about the problems of the lost 
and lonely, shows Joni confident and 
cheery. Her fans can only wonder what her 
music will be like if her search for love ever 
succeeds.
9SRD
patter of the back-up melody sounds like a 
train rollin down the tracks. Actually, its 
swell drumming by Ron Tutt and great 
old-fashioned banjo-plucking by Eric 
Weissberg, the Deliverance picker.
Another interesting cut is the highlyorchestrated Ballad of Billy the Kid 
which at first you groan at because it 
begins with horses hoofs tlott-tlotting. But 
Joels piano solos on this and other cuts 
keep the rather insidious melodies from 
boring you to death: Joel is ocassionally 
given over to Elton John-ish chord-banging 
mediocrity, but often enough he saves 
himself with moments of really skillful 
delicate tinklings. The Ballad, where Joel 
sounds more like Chapin than anywhere 
else on the album, features a gradually 
swelling orchestra sounding something like 
the Malboro Country cigarette commercial. 
In the lyric, Joel draws an interesting 
analogy between Billy the Kid from the
by Steve Perkins
Dr. Hook: BELLY UP
Those among us who are not already Dr. 
Hook aficionados probably dont quite 
know what to make of Dr. Hook. They 
know the band has had two hit singles; the 
first being Sylvias Mother, a record 
completely nauseous with sentimental 
adolescent anguish. The second was Cover 
of the Rolling Stone, undoubtably the 
hippest (and funniest) satire on the pop 
music scene since Peter, Paul and Marys I 
Dig Rock an Roll Music. Where, one 
asks, is the common ground? After 
listening to a Dr. Hook album, people 
become even more bewildered. They find 
that about half the recorded material is 
very off-color and hilariously funny, while 
the other half deals with such somber 
subjects as lost love, alcoholism and broken 
lives. The music itself is also a bit be
wildering. The country ihfluence is 
obvious, but it couldnt be called Country& Western or even country-rock. Then too, 
some of the groups arrangements resemble 
nothing so much as Captain Beefheart.
Why? ask the uninitated, and there is 
no real answer to the question, except that 
Dr. Hook seems to have come up with one 
of the most unique sound formulas that 
anyone has found in a long time. The 
sound is built around the lush and highly 
exaggerated twin lead vocal styling of 
Dennis Locorriere and Ray Sawyer. 
Instrumental backing is rather spare, but 
always impeccable. Somehow it seems that 
this arrangement (and presumably also the 
temperment of the musicians) lends itself 
best to either bawdy humor or powerful, 
unabashed (and usually tasteful) 
sentimentality.
Belly Up, Dr. Hooks latest offering, 
doesnt deviate too much from the 
established pattern. One significant 
difference is that songs written by mem
bers of the group have been recorded for 
the first time. On the two previous albums 
all the material was written by Shel Silverstein, a multi-talented individual who also 
writes songs for straight Nashville artists 
and draws cartoons for Playboy. The 
album begins with a drunken Mexican 
commanding someone to play the guitar. 
He does, who ever he is, and together they 
launch into Acapulco Goldie, the story
West and Billy the Kid, a beer-drinking 
freak from Oyster Bay, Long Island.
Captain Jack, arranged by Jimrriie 
Haskell, is the moit ambitjous piece on the 
album. Joel gets pretty' didactic in his 
message, but theres a haunting refrain 
spliced by bitingly cynical lyrics;
So you stand on the corner in your 
new
English clothes 
And you look so polished from your 
hair
down to your toes,
Oh, but still you fingers gonna 
pick your nose, after all!
Its all about that no matter how slick 
you think you are youre still basically a 
schmuck. Joel tells it better. Liking Billy 
Joel in concert isnt going to be as hard as 
you think, and its free. So drop in.
of a whore who picks men up in bars and 
then rolls them in dark alleys and takes all 
their dope. The song is done in a familiar 
cliched south-of-the-border style, with a 
trumpet part that falls somewhere between 
Herb Alpert and Bizets Carmen.
Penicillin Penny is about exactly 
what you think it is. It is dominated by a 
relentless acoustic guitar boogie riff, and 
the overall feeling is much like that mourn
ful, bluesy saxaphone music which always 
introduced the heroin and V.D. films 
shown in high school. The band gets into 
more of a country feeling with Life Aint 
Easy and You Aint Got the Right, two 
wistful ballads about loneliness. Both 
feature some nice fmgerpicking and steel 
work. !When Lilly Was Queen conjures 
up the image of Captain Beefheart, parti
cularly his recent blues oriented trend. 
Monterey Jack sounds a lot like Dan 
Hicks and his Hot Licks, and ends with a 
delightful polyphony of Dixieland scat 
singing.
The Ballad of...  is unquestionably 
the best cut on the album. It is written in 
the style of the old ballads about western 
gunfighters and the musical arrangement is 
very reminicent of Crosby, Stills, Nash and 
Young. It is the story of a rising young 
rock singer who is shot down on stage by a 
girl he has used and forsaken. A shot rang 
out and the crowd goes wild ... The 
sound of a cheering crowd is dubbed in and 
then fades away. The song ends with the 
same solitary drum cadence that intro
duced it. Come On In is a barn dance 
invitation to young female travelers: If 
youre ever around my farm you can fuck 
my mule! It features some real down 
home fiddlin.
The limits of tasteful sentimentality are 
very nearly approached with The Wonder
ful Soup Stone. The image of a mother of 
a poverty-stricken family cooking up a 
delicious soup made of water, potatoes and 
a magical stone is laying it on a little thick. 
Dr. Hook makes it fairly believable, but 
just the same, its not the sort of thing that 
can be stomached all the time.
Belly Up contains a lot of very worth
while music and humor, and I need not say 
again that Dr. Hook is a very unique band. 
The only thing that bothers me is that 
there has been very little sign of growth or 
change.  -

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, February 5, 1974Page 15
RERD
by Rob Simbeck 
Rod Stewart Faces Live
My weekly T.G.I.F. ritual goes some
thing like this: At about 3:00 on Friday 
afternoon I call the Oakland Beer Dis
tributor and order a case of Schlitz. At 
4:00 when it arrives I throw open the 
window (weather permitting), stack the 
Whos Live at Leeds, The Allman Brothers 
Live at the Fillmore, and the Stones Get 
Yer Ya Yas Out on my turntable, turn it 
up all the way, flop down on the bed and 
start guzzling those frosties.
When Rod Stewart Faces Live first 
came out, 1 was sure that it would be 
destined to take its place with the three 
aforementioned live rockers. After all, 
Stewart has a knack for packing excite
ment into an album, and a concert 
recording just had to be a gloriously funky 
40 minutes or so of music.
One Friday afternoon, I ordered the 
case early, threw it in the refrigerator, and 
trekked to Oakland to pick up the album. 
On the way home I took in the visuals: 
That list of songs! The first side alone had 
Its All Over Now, Cut Across Shorty, 
Too Bad/Every Picture Tells A Story 
and Stay With Me. And the inside sleeve 
is loaded with action pictures of Rod and 
the boys, who are obviously really cooking.
I rushed into the room, peeled the top 
off a Schlitz, opened the window (it was 
snowing, but I was excited), and put the 
Stewart album on top of Live at Leeds (I 
wanted to build up to it). After Young 
Man Blues, though, I couldnt bear the 
tension any longer. I rejected the album, 
opened another beer, and stood there, 
waiting to be worked into a frenzy. There 
were 60s-style crowd noises, and then Its 
All Over Now started. It had about as 
much drive and excitement as an aging 
pack mule. No, Rod, thats too slow, I 
shouted. If this was cooking, it had to be
fudge they were making. The side dragged 
on. Too Bad had a decent tempo, but it 
still didnt have punch. Every Picture 
Tells A Story was horrendous. I guzzled 
some more beer, and I even taped the fold 
open picture of the entire crowd up on the 
wall, and did my Rod Stewart imitation, 
mouthing the words. It wasnt working. 
This was terrible. Rod Stewart without 
punch is like Skibo mashed potatoes with
out a lot of salt and pepper.
Then I looked closely at the crowd shot 
on the album. I could see 1244 faces 
clearly, so I tallied the expressions: Five 
were smiling and one guy was raising his 
arms. The other 1238 looked either bored 
or dazed. I knew the picture had to be 
taken during one of the songs.
I took the record off and filed it 
between the Doors Absolutely Live and 
the Yoko side of Live Peace in Toronto. Its 
a fitting spot for it.
Dylan
If youre a true-blue Dylan fanatic, you 
might want to buy this album, if only to 
cringe once again like you did during SelfPortrait. Dylan contains a number of rejects 
from that period, all of them penned by 
other people. A few work, most dont. A 
Fool Such As I features a good vocal 
performance, with Dylans Nashville Sky
line nasal tones. The Ballad of Ira Hayes 
sounds like very early Dylan, and its done 
well, Lily of the West is adequate. 
Cant Help Falling in Love and Spanish 
is the Loving Tongue are songs Dylan 
really had no business doing. They just 
dont conform to his musical style. Mr. 
Bojangles and Big Yellow Taxi have all 
the aesthetic appeal of a long weekend in 
Altoona, and they feature Dylans worst 
possible voice. The rest varies from bad tc 
terrible. Unless you enjoy being em
barrassed by an album, this is one to stay 
away from.
XXX XX
by Stuct'y Robin Kimbell
SORRY: There is no Farmer Daves. When the legend becomes fact, print the legend.
The Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre The Ballet 
Theatre is back with a production of Coppelia, to be conducted by Michael Semanitzky. The performances will be on Friday 
and Saturday, February 8 and 9, at 8:00 
p.m., and on Sunday the 10th at 2:30. 
Matinee prices are pretty reasonable, and 
well wager theyre not nearly sold out. 
Call Heinz Hall Box Office at 281-5000 to 
confirm.
Chaplin Series Continues Continuing the 
Chaplin retrospective down at Carnegie 
Museum will be the 1936 film Modem 
Times,to be shown on February 15 at 8 
and 10 p.m. Paulette Goddard co-stars.
Poetry Forum Poets Maxine Kumin and 
Stephen Spender will read their poetry in 
the Wherret Room of Skibo at 2:30 on 
February 6, prior to their reading at the 
International Poetry Forum in Carnegie 
Library that evening at 8:15.
Theatre in America Series The Exxonsponsored series will continue on WQED 
Thursday night, February 14, at 8 p.m. 
with AnouilhsAntigone, to star Genevieve 
Bujold, Stacy Keach, and Fritz Weaver.
American Film Retrospective The next 
feature of the American Film Retrospect
ive will be the wonderful 1933 classic 42nd 
Street, the first of the Busby Berkely gold
en musical films. The film stars Dick Pow
ell, Bebe Daniels, and Ruby Keeler, and 
look for Ginger Rogers in the chorus line. 
The final number, with great sets and 
amazing effects, is worth the price of ad
mission (75 cents). At 7:00 and 9:30, Sun
day night, February 10, in the Wherret 
Room of Skibo.
Camelot Theatre The Camelot Theatre will 
present Butterflies are Free for a few weeks 
starting February 7, with an all-star Pitts
burgh cast. Call the theatre at 481-6406 for 
ticket information.
Holbrook It would be wise to get tickets 
for Hal Holbrooks coming performance 
early, before they are sold out. Holbrook, 
one of the greatest actors in America, will 
be performing his world-famous one-man 
show, Mark Twain Tonight, on Wednes
day, February 27 at 8:30 p.m. Holbrooks 
program is different all the time; he draws 
the show from some ten hours of material, 
and no two shows are ever alike. Tickets 
for the Heinz Hall performance are avail
able at the Heinz Hall box office, Gimbels, 
Kaufmans, and Hornes, and are $7.50. 
$6.50 and $5.50. Its a very worthwhile 
evening.
X-COUNTRY Slfi SALE.V 3n>/ OFF ON SKiS POIES BOOTS 
jU/# t PACKAGE DEALS
SAIE
LASTSFEB.l-FB1
CLOSED F6.r> 
FOR INVENTORY
H2l1EYflANAVf.,,,20'/. OFF ON DOOJN/
^ CLOTHiNG  SKI ACCESSORIES CB rwEEN F0RBE5
V  Gras SekAeult3i - 621-2228
s$
ftKs
i

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 5, 1974
SPORTS
Tired of Losing 
Wrestlers-Quit
j
by Jeff Englund
A disappointing and frustrating season 
came to end last week when the C-MU 
wrestling squad decided unanimously tocancel the remainder of the 1973-74 
schedule. Said Head Coach Paul Steva:
It was embarrassing to us and our 
opponents to forfeit four weight classes 
every match and still be shut out.
The squad, led by Captain Vic Rogers, 
met with Athletic Director Raymond Hay
nes and outlined the reasons for abbreviat
ing the schedule. These were:
such a small squad can only hope for 
individual successes at matches.
 the size of the squad, injuries, the ex
perience factor, and the fact that the team 
is forced to juggle weight classes as much as 
they are seriously jeopardizes the number 
of probable individual successes.
 the team is tired of and embarrassed 
by losing in the fashion they have been. 
They feel it is unfair to wrestlers on other 
teams who represent weight classes for
feited by C-MU.
Next in the report were six problems in 
the C-MU wrestling program. These in
cluded:
 classes are scheduled during practice 
times.
 Departments and professors advise stu
dents not to go out for sports.
 no recruiting budget exists to attract 
wrestlers of academic standing.
 there are too many academic press
ures.
'the team has to share its coach with 
the football team the first half of the sea
son, when the building of a team is most 
vulnerable. Assistant coaches are volunteers 
and cant always make practices.
 probably the biggest problem is that 
only an exceptionally few high school 
wrestlers will step from a good high school 
program with school and peer support into 
a university program which is greatly infer
ior and has no obvious support.
The third main part of the outline 
stated the teams goal, which is to raise a 
wrestling team that will be competitive 
with the other schools in the PAC, in both 
school support and facilities. This would 
mean a squad of about 25 men, so that 
when academic work builds up on one 
wrestler, another can step in and carry the 
load.
Rogers doesnt feel that Haynes was to
tally sympathetic to the teams request.
Youd have thought we were asking for 
purple jock straps and a steak after each 
practice, he said. All we want is a decent 
wrestling program, one that will attract 
good wrestlers and make them stay.
Youd have thought we were 
asking for purple jock straps and
steak after every practice. All 
we want is a decent program...
However, Haynes did agree to 
communicate with the wrestling candidates 
on campus who either didnt try out for 
the team or went out for only a few days, 
through questionnaire or personal inter
view. and try to see what they found 
wrong with the present program.
Rogers says that the wrestlers also want 
to examine the programs of other success
ful schools and decide which of their as
pects can be applied to C-MU.
For years now, weve been trying to 
develop the sport on campus and there has 
been next to no improvement in the num
ber of people out for the team or in the 
program itself.
The grapplers who are left--Rogers, Ron 
Smoko, Tom Loeffler, Tom Velltri. Bob 
Kimicata, and Glen Williams-will still 
practice, in anticipation of an upcoming 
scrimmage with Pitt and the PAC champ
ionships in March.
EDITORIAL
/ guess after four futile years rushing from lab to practice, giving up 
your evenings, exhausting yourself on 200-mile bus rides, starving your
self, and* giving your best physically, youll call it a day if youve nothing 
to show for it. You know as much about chemical engineering as any 
other 22 year old in the country and youve got the books to prove it. But 
thats not an education.
Ask anyone who knows what physical education is for. Its an outlet 
for the tensions that build studying from 8:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m. to pass 
an exam, during said 2-hour exam, or just thinking about any of it.
Besides relaxing your nerves and tightening your muscles, organized 
physical activity teaches you the competitiveness youll need to get it on 
in the outside world your studies are preparing you for. If youve spent 8 
minutes, many sets of 8 minutes, in corporal combat with a wellconditioned, tough man of your size,, trying to get him to stare at the 
ceiling, you can handle yourself in just about any situation.
Luckily, most of the members of this years defunct wrestling squad 
will get another chance to reap these benefits. Hopefully it will be a 
bumper crop this time, and not a famine.
What C-MU has got to do is get it straight what theyre going to do 
about wrestling. Either give the program a fair chance to be something or 
get rid of it and quit wasting everyones time.
/ saw a photo of John Carroll's wrestling team the other day. It looked 
like a football team, in both size and number. Hiram is about the same. 
The 12 weight classes in the conference championship will probably be 
divided between these 2 schools. In all likelihood, no Tartan will wrestle 
past the first round.
C-MUs wrestling team doesnt have -to be of the quality of a John
Carroll. But it should be reasonably dose in quantity.
A 50-50 understanding should exist between the professors and the 
coaches. No athlete should be forced to miss or be late for a practice 
except in the case of an important exam. If his grades dont cut it at all, 
he goes. But he has to get a chance to show he can do both. After all, the
object of a school is to teach students, not hinder them.
Tough Loss 
in Rifle
by Ansley Klein
A single point won the rifle match for 
Clarion here this last Friday, 1291-1290, 
bringing the Tartans win-loss record for 
this season to 5-8.
Top five scorers for C-MU were Walt 
Sears (272), Mark Smith (265), Mike 
Pollock (258), Eric McNeal (249), and 
Steve Strom (246).
Carnegie-Mellon will meet Geneva at the 
Jenkins Range this Saturday with one more 
match remaining before the League 
Sectional Match, to be held in 
March.
Jeff Englund
ENGINEERS
Chemical... Mechanical... Industrial... Metallurgical.. .Ceramic...
N L INDUSTRIES OFFERS NOT JUST A JOBBUT A FUTURE.

N L Industries is a diversified, multi
national manufacturer with sales in ex
cess of 1 billion dollars.
Our product emphasis is in chemi
cals, metals, die castings, pigments, 
bearings, plastics, and nuclear and oil 
well materials and services... de
signed, manufactured, and marketed 
by 29,000 employees in our more than 
200 plants, offices, and laboratories 
throughout the world.
Our openings are for resultsoriented engineers interested in ad
vancement to managerial positions. If 
your interest is in production, design, 
sales, plant engineering, or research 
and development, N L Industries wants 
to discuss a job with a future with you.
Lets meet on campus 
to discuss the career op
portunities for you with 
N L Industries. INDUSTRIES
OUR CAMPUS INTERVIEW DATE: FEBRUARY 13 & 14
An Equal Opportunity 
Employer. 
Male/Female.
New League 
Spells Trouble
For Fans
b v Mike Pochan
Most sports people realize that the 
newly-formed World Football League can
not challenge the supremacy of the estab
lished NFL. In the battle for the top 
players, the NFL would triumph; it holds 
more money in its organization than the 
WFL could ever dream of making. No 
doubt, teams like Miami would not even 
flinch when confronted with the decision 
of losing Larry Csonka or paying him twice 
what he receives now; they would pay.
Players salaries will skyrocket (as hap
pened in the past with basketball and 
hockey) to levels never seen before. The 
NFL teams will spend much more money 
trying to keep their players than they have 
in past years. And in the end, the added 
cost of keeping the stars in the NFL will be 
passed on to the football fans.
The competition will not hurt the NFL. 
It will hurt the football fans, the people 
who will have to shell out more bucks each 
Sunday to see their hometown team play. 
And dont think you can watch football on 
TV without a change in price! The price 
for the rights to televise the games will go 
up which will make the price of advertising 
go up which will make the price of prod
ucts go up, all because some adventurous 
sports businessmen wanted to try and 
make some money.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 5, 1974-Page 17
Women Continue
o
by Leslie Allen
In pre-season play CMlFs womens 
basketball team defeated Seton Hill in the 
championship game of the Seaton Hill 
Tourney. In their opening game of regular 
season play, January 26, CMU was victorQ ious at Penn State, 39-25. The starting five 
were Captain Cindy Whitmore, Cathy 
duBreuil, Jean Hundley, Marty Lisberger, 
and Elly Zimmerman.
At the end of the 1st half, after a slow 
start, CMU was up by 3, the score 15-12. 
Using a zone defense effectively in the sec
ond half CMU"s women held Penn State to 
only 13 points. On the offensive boards 
CMU came alive scoring 25 points in the 
2nd half. The final score: CMU 39, Penn 
State, 25.
Flawless Record
High scorer for the game was 511 star 
freshman center Jean Hundley with 15 
points. Elly Zimmerman connected for 11 
points, Cindy Whitmore dropped in 8, 
Linda Ackerman scored 4, and Cathy 
duBreuil added 1. Other women who will 
be playing for CMU are: Brenda Alexander, 
Leslie Allen, Pat Berry, Linda Greene, 
Ruthie Potts, Barb Toole and Marianne 
Vackiener.
On Wednesday, January 30, in their first 
home game of the season, the C-MU 
womens basketball team extended their 
record to 2-0, beating Seton Hill by a score 
of 46-32. The starting line up of Jean Hun
dley, 511, Elly Zimmerman, 58, 
Catherine duBreuil, 58, Cindy Whitmore, 
57, and Marty Lisberger, 55, took 
command of the game early in the first 
quarter. Using a 3-man press, C-MU held
Seton Hill to only 3 points in the first 
quarter, while C-MU scored 15.
In the second quarter, C-MU continued 
to dominate. Seton Hill could not stop 
Marty Lisberger who shot excellently from 
20 feet out. EHy Zimmerman drove up the 
lanes for layups and Jean Hundly was 
working under the basket. At the half, 
C-MU was up by 17 points, 30-13.
Towards the end of the third quarter, 
Jean Hundley drew her fourth foul and 
Elly Zimmerman her third. The second 
string was put in and at the end of the 
quarter Seton Hill had scored 7 points and 
C-MU only 4. C-MU still held a 14 point 
lead, 34-20. With the beginning of fourth 
quarter, the first string was put back in. 
Seton Hill drew within 10, but could not 
outscore C-MUs women. The final score 
was C-MU 46, Seton Hill 32.
High scorer for the game was 55 Mar
ty Lisberger (Jr.) who pumped in a big 14 
points from at least 20 feet out. Elly 
Zimmerman (Soph.) with layups and out
side shots scored 10 points. Jean Hundley 
(Fr.), often double-teamed, was held to 
just 7 points. Captain Cindy Whitmore (Jr.) 
hit for 6 points. Pat Berry, who forced 
Seton Hill to turn over the ball several 
times, connected on two 16 footers for 4 
points. Cathy duBrueil added 3 and Barb 
Toole scored a basket.
Coach Jane Fisk says this is the tallest 
and most aggressive team she has had in 
years, and that there is a lot of talent 
among the girls. She thinks they will have 
one of the best seasons ever.
The next home game is against Carlow 
College on Saturday, February 9, at 12:00. 
The women shall win again!
Tartans Have an Excellent Game 
(and Another Mediocre One)
C-MUs basketball team did something 
last week that they didnt do all of last 
year. They won their second game.
They convincingly defeated Case West
ern Reserve in a comeback from behind, 
76-67. Unfortunately, two wins do not 
offset twelve losses. The Tartans continue 
to lose games that they have had a very 
good chance of winning. Saturday was no 
different as Grove City defeated the Tar
tans 73-57.
During the Case game, if any fans had 
left two minutes into the second half, no
body could have blamed them. The Tartans 
were down by 15. Case had totally out
played them in the first half, and it looked
as if they were going to run away with the 
game in the second half. But somehow the 
momentum moved over to the Tartans and 
stayed with them for the rest of the game.
In a span of eight minutes, the Tartans 
outscored Case 17-8 and the score was tied 
at 55-55. Baskets by Rentsch and Cham
bers gave C-MU a brief lead until Case took 
it back, 63-62, with 4:55 left in the game. 
However, the Tartans came back with bas
kets by Hotimsky and Hamerly to take a
3-point lead with only two minutes re
maining. Case began to commit obvious 
fouls and the result was eight straight foul 
shots for the Tartans.
Leading the Tartans in scoring was a
guard, Gary Rentsch, who had his best 
game with 22 points. Hamerly had 21 
points.
For every good game the Tartans play, 
there is always a bad one to report . In 
the Grove City loss, the Tartans were be
hind all but the first three minutes in the 
game. Actually, they were only behind by 
five at the half and they even cut that lead 
to two points in the second half. But Grove 
City began to hit the baskets more consist
ently and stretched their lead to 15 where 
the game was decided. Both Hamerly and 
Donato led the Tartans with 14 points 
while DAngelo had 12.
To make matters worse for the Tartans,
Gary Rentsch has ended his three- year 
career with the Tartans. Gary is a senior 
architect. Let that speak for itself. In losing 
Rentsch, the team loses the most con
sistent shooter from the floor and the foul 
fine. Maybe more important is that they 
have lost another upperclassman who pro
bably had the most experience on the 
team. The basketball roster now shows one 
upperclassman, Mark Donato, and ten 
freshmen.
The Tartans have 7 games remaining 
on the schedule. Last night they took on 
Allegheny away, tomorrow they play John 
Carroll at home and Saturday MIT makes 
the long trip to Pittsburgh to play C-MU.
Gary Rentsch hit 20 of 21 free throws before 
quitting team.
Mark Donato, Tartan's only non-freshman, had 14 
points against Grove City.
Dan Jason held Case's star Russ Drake to 6 points 
in second half.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 5, 1974
First-Place Tartan Hockey 
Team Holds Own vs. Pitt
Kloes Sets 
School Record
by Dave Girdany
The C-MU hockey team extended its 
record to 8-0 last week by defeating In
diana 6-3 on Sunday, January 27 and 
downing Penn State McKeesport 5-3 on 
Tuesday, January 29.
Against Indiana, at the Civic Arena, the 
Tartans played perhaps their best hockey 
of the year. Only occasional defensive lap
ses allowed Indiana to score, as Marty San
ders twice and Pete Hanson once scored 
unassisted for the opponents. Overall, 
though, the C-MU offense and defense 
played good hockey. Mike Kenworthy 
opened the scoring when he beat the In
diana goalie with a good shot just inside 
the right post after Rick Farman fed him a 
perfect pass in the slot, about halfway 
through the first period. Four-plus minutes 
later, Joe Molnar beat the goalie on an
other shot inside the right post, only this 
shot was from just inside the red line. The 
score was 2-0 at the end of the first period.
Sanders and Hanson scored in the first 
half of the second period to tie the score at 
2. This tie did not last long as Matt Gold
smith scored a short-handed goal for the 
Tartans to give them a one-goal lead at the 
end of two.
Sanders scored his second goal of the 
game for Indiana early in the third period 
as he beat Jeff Hart on a breakaway, to tie 
the score for the last time. The C-MU Tar
tans then proceeded to play their best 
hockey yet. They played team hockey, 
passing well and setting up easy scores. In 
less than three minutes, Tom Grimm, Mike 
Gallaway, and Pete Davis scored to give 
C-MU a 6-3 lead, with more than half a 
period to play. C-MU did not score again, 
but continued to control play, and thus the 
final score was C-MU 6, Indiana 3.
C-MU was scheduled to play a hockey 
game against Penn State McKeesport at the 
Alpine on Tuesday. However the result was 
something less than a game. Penn States 
game was one of intimidation, as the Penn 
State skaters came out hitting. This strat
egy was successful for two periods, as the 
Tartans tried to play the same game, and as 
a result, they did not play hockey. The 
referees assessed Tartans for questionable
penalties and ignored obvious Penn State 
infractions. Compounded on this condition 
was good ol Alpine, which was in its usual 
shape: bad boards, bad ice, bad benches,
etc.
. Tom Grimm gave C-MU a 1-0 lead in the 
second period, as he scored a goal for the 
third consecutive game. Penn State scored 
later to make the score 1-1 at the end of
two.
In the third period, The Tartans started 
to play hockey. Rick Farman scored off a 
rebound of a Leroy Bauer slap shot. Mo
ments later, there was no rebound off Le
roys shot--3-l in favor of C-MU. Penn 
State closed to within one at 3-2, but Rick 
Farman scored again to make it 4-2. Penn 
State fought back to 4-3, but Mike Galla
way iced the verdict with an open net goal 
with time running out, to make the final 
score C-MU 5, Penn State McKeesport 3.
Although the game was close, it should 
not have been. C-MU was a much better 
team, but had trouble showing this. Penn 
States offense consisted of taking the puck 
to center ice, then launching a slap shot 
goalward. Only the Tartans failure to play 
their game for two periods kept the score 
close. They have learned though, so expect 
C-MU to beat Penn State more easily the 
next time out.
Scoring Summaries 
C-MU against Indiana
1] C-MUKenworthy 4 (Farman), 8:38; 2)
C-MUMolnar 2 (Kenworthy) 12:58;2] 3) 
IndSanders 3:46; 4) IndHanson 7:13; 
5) C-MUGoldsmith 4 (Peterson, Molnar) 
11:06; 3] 6) Ind-Sanders 1:31; 7)
C-MUGrimm 2 (Peterson, Bauer) 3:54; 8) 
C-MU Gallaway 3 (Kenworthy) 6:22; 9) 
C-MUDavis 6 (Grimm, Jacobs) 6:53;
C-MU against Penn State McKeesport
2] i) C-MU-Grimm 3; 2) PSMSimko 
(Mauro) 3] 3) C-MUFarman 2 (Bauer, 
Molnar); 4) C-MU-Bauer 1 (Kenworthy); 
5) PSMMauro; 6) C-MUFarman 3 (Mo
lnar, Gallaway); 7) PSMFitchwell; 8) 
C-MUGallaway 4
Tartan skaters Tom Grimm (20), Mike Kenworthy (15), and Roger Peterson (5) bear down on the 
Indiana goal.
On Saturday afternoon, February 2nd, 
at the Civic Arena, the first and second 
place teams in the WPIHA, C-MU and Pitt, 
respectively, played to a 4-4 tie. Although 
the Tartans wanted to win to assure them
selves of a first place finish, the tie puts the 
pressure on the Panthers; Pitt must beat 
C-MU on February 23rd to have a chance 
to finish first. Rick Farman had an excell
ent game, scoring three goals for the nat 
trick, and also assisting on the fourth Tar
tan goal.
Mike Gallaway gave C-MU a l-O lead 
early in the first period, as Mike Ken
worthy passed the puck perfectly to Galla
way right in front of the Pitt net. This 
marked the fourth straight game in which 
Mike has scored a goal. Midway through 
the period, while the Tartans were two 
men short, Bob Arturo beat C-MU goalie 
Jeff Hart with a bad angle shot. The period 
ended with the score C-MU 1, Pitt 1.
In the second period, Pitt outplayed 
C-MU, taking a 2-1 lead on a goal by 
Denny Browne from right in front of the 
Tartan net. The Tartans simply were beingoutskated by the Panther team, and had to 
change what was happening.
Down by 2-1 going into the final period, 
C-MU knew it had to take control of the 
game. The Tartans did so. Rick Farman 
scored at the 3:40 mark to tie the game. 
However, only twenty-five seconds later, 
Joe Testa tipped in a Glen Hyde slapshot, 
giving Pitt a 3-2 lead. The Tartans kept 
applying the pressure, and less than two 
minutes after the Pitt goal, Pete Davis 
passed a cross point to LeRoy Bauer, 
whose slapshot was tipped in by Rick Far
man to tie the game. This power play goal 
was duplicated about two minutes later oi 
another power play. Mike Kenworthy took 
a pass from John Hauser and passed across 
to Rick Farman at the right point. Ricks 
slapshot beat the Pitt goalie to give C-MU a
4-3 lead. C-MU continued to control the 
play, but Glen Hyde beat Jeff Hart with a 
slapshot at 10:40. The Tartans were unable 
to capitalize on their last power play, from 
12:52 to 14:52, and the buzzer sounded 
with the score tied at four.
Again the Tartans failed to play three 
good periods of hockey. But they demon
strated that,, when they have to, they can 
outplay any tean^ in the league. The 
offense ar)d d^fe^se of the Tartans con
trolled the game for much of the crucial 
third period. The tie leaves C-MU with an 
8-0-1 record, for 17 points, while Pitt is
6-1-1, for 13 points;. The next C-MU game 
is this Saturday against West Virginia Uni
versity, at Sewickley. The following Tues
day, the Tartans will battle Penn State 
McKeesport at the Alpine again.
Scoring Summary
1] 1) C-MUGallaway 5 (Kenworthy, Far
man) 2:55; (2) PittArturo 9:11.
2] 3) Pitt-Browne (Hagins) 3:36.
3] 4) C-MUFarman 4 (Kenworthy, Galla
way) 3:40; (5) Pitt-Testa (Hyde) 4:05; (6) 
C-MUFarman 5 (Bauer, Davis) 5:57; (7) 
C-MU-Farman 7 (JCenworthy, Houser) 
8:01 ;>*8) Pit^Hydee" (Hagins) 10:40.
Tartan track star Ken Kloes won the 
two mile run for the small college division 
at the Pitt Indoor Track Classic on January 
25. His time of 9:27 set a school record, 
demolishing the 9:42 mark set by Jon 
Manon in 1970.
It was the first meet of the year for the 
mechanical engineering major from Gibsonia. Tartan coach Gary Meckley worked 
with Kloes on his strategy for the race.
For the first half-mile I just tried to 
stay out of trouble. From there to the first 
mile I wanted to stay right with the other 
leaders. Then, I just took off and never 
trailed again.
Ken plans to enter any other indoor 
meets that Pitt sponsors, but the most im
portant thing now to him and the other 
track Tartans is the outdoor season.
I think we have a shot at the confer
ence title, plus a good chance for several 
individual championships,  says Ken. 
McKay will be back; Silvis is great in the 
hurdles, and we have some new javelin 
throwers who are supposed to be able to 
surpass 200 feet.
"Go, Fight, 
Win"
by Mary Jo Chabala
The CMU cheerleaders wear the skirts 
on the basketball court. Their job is to lead 
the crowd in cheering basketball and foot
ball teams to victory.
The squad contains eight members this 
year. They are seniors Susan Steinbeck 
(captain) and Evelyne Pohl; juniors Vicki 
Hudson (co-captain), Gloria Toodie Bos
well, and Lynn Waller; sophomore Sally 
Hook; and freshmen Mary Jane Kondor and 
Jeri Maggiore.
The cheerleading squad is completely 
student oriented. The girls have no adviser. 
They are completely upder.the direction of 
their captain and co-captain. Their cheers 
ate ones from the girls high schools or 
ones which they themselves have com
posed. Practices are held once a week.
Student Activities supply the squad 
with the money which is used to purchase 
uniforms and to obtain transportation fro 
the girls during the basketball season to the 
away games.
Try-outs for the squad are held in Sep
tember of each year. The judges consist of 
faculty members, students, and two-year 
cheerleaders. The girls are judged on the 
basis of poise, spirit, and athletic abilities. 
Girls must try out for the squad at the 
beginning of each year until they have been 
on the squad for two years. At this time 
they are considered permanent members 
and are eligible to be judges.
When you see red sweaters and tartan 
plaid skirts leaping in the air, support them 
because theyre supporting CMtJ sports.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, February 5, 1974Page 19
I.M. Races 
Sound Familiar
?
700 students are participating in I.M. 
basketball this year at C-MU. A total of 65 
teams are coming out to take part in the 
fun and excitement that basketball offers. 
15 games are played each night, Monday 
through Thursday, and a few teams even 
come out to win.
In Majors competition, Salt & Pepper, 
GSIA and Wild Bunch are the only unde
feated teams. Wild Bunch, in addition to an 
impressive football team, has an impressive 
basketball team. In their first game of the 
season, they defeated Beta A (which also 
has an impressive team) by a score of 
59-42. They have defeated ATO-A and 
10+2 II by margins of 5 and 9 points 
respectively. The Bunchs Atkinson has led 
the team with an impressive 57 points total 
for the three games. The Bunch is not an 
exciting team, but they are confident and 
experienced. They simply play tough de
fense and hit a high percentage from the 
floor.
ATO-A, on the other hand, is a team of 
mostly freshmen who are young, quick and 
exciting. They relish a fast moving game 
and can probably outrun most every team 
in the Majors. They do lack experience, 
however. Jay Duquette and Brad Punko 
have led ATO scoring in their first 5 games, 
leading them to wins over Raiders IV, Oak
land, and the Roaches in a real squeaker 
(29-28). Their only other loss was to Salt & 
Pepper.
10+211 is another strong major league 
team that has great finesse and control on 
the court. They work together as well as 
any other team in the majors, and often 
come up with magnificent plays. The play
ers have a bit of a temper, however.
Raiders IV is a good strong team that 
has defeated the Roaches and Oakland. 
Beta A and GSIA have managed to over
power the Raiders, giving them a 2-2 re
cord.
Beta A appears to have it all. They have 
height, quickness, excellent shooters, ball 
handlers, teamwork and balanced scoring. 
They are a bit inexperienced, however, and 
have lost to the Bunch, GSIA and 10+2 II 
in a squeaker. They have great potential to 
improve their presently poor standings.
In Intermediate competition, the Play
ers, Polish Patriots, Orangatangs, P. K. 
Taters, and Purple Gnurples have emerged 
as outstanding teams. In the Bulls division, 
the Polish Patriots have defeated Mudd, 
Beta B, N. T. State, and the Court Jesters. 
The Players are also in the Bulls division, 
having defeated DTO, N. T. State and K. S. 
The Patriots and Players, both undefeated, 
will not play each other until February 28.
In the Bucks Division, the Orangatangs 
are all alone. Ralph Domenic has accumu 
lated 70 points in his teams 4 victories 
himself having scored in only 3 of these 
The team is led by two or three outstand 
ing players who do just about everything
The Suns division is being led by two 
undefeated teams, the P. K. Taters, last 
years I.M. Intermediate champs, and the 
Purple Gnurples, who reached last years 
playoffs. The Taters are led by Dan Liska 
as far as actual scoring, but are rather ba
lanced and confident.
The Gnurples have wo a 5 games so far 
this season, but due to scheduling, wont 
play another game ior two weeks. They 
meet the Taters on February 18 and it 
should be an exciting game. The Gnurples 
imght be missing their high scorer that day 
and could be at a disadvantage.
Pro Tennis Premiere Set
The Pittsburgh Triangles and the Phila
delphia Freedoms have been chosen to 
meet in the Grand Opener of the initial 
World Team Tennis (WTT) season. The 
match will take place at the Philadelphia 
Spectrum (home court of the Freedoms) 
on Monday evening, May 6th. The an
nouncement followed a meeting of the 
Leagues board of directors held earlier this 
week in Philadelphia.
A spokesman for the league said the 
teams were chosen because of the number 
of superstars already signed by the two 
eastern division franchises. Philadelphia has 
Billie Jean King (player-coach), probably 
the biggest attraction in the tennis world. 
On the other hand, the Triangles boast two 
of the worlds top players in Evonne 
Goolagong and player-coach Ken Rosewall. 
The site for the opener was decided by a 
coin flip that took a Phillie bounce. 
However, it was agreed that Philadelphia 
would return to Pittsburgh on Tuesday, 
May 7th for the Triangles home opener. 
That match is scheduled for 7:30 at Pitts
burghs Civic Arena.
Chuck Reichblum, president and general 
manager of the Triangles talked with Ms. 
King in Los Angeles earlier this month and 
she assured him there will be no brotherly 
love in Philadelphia on opening night. 
Well beat the pants off you, said the 
outspoken five-time Wimbledon champ.
Reichblum was thrilled when the Tris 
were picked for the Grand Opener but 
was even more elated about the Pittsburgh 
premier. Were happy to be able to have 
Billie Jean King and the Freedoms for our
home opener, said Reichblum. Based on 
whats happened where Billie Jean played 
previously, we expect a great crowd to see 
her meet Evonne Goolagong in person.
Reichblum acknowledged that he ex
pects more than just top notch tennis when 
the interstate squads clasg. The Pittsburgh-Philadelphia series should follow in 
the tradition of previous turnpike rival
ries, said the Tris top boss. Sports fans 
in the Tri-State area look forward to rivalry 
games like the Steelers-Browns match-up, 
or the yearly collegiate clash between Pitt 
and West Virginia; the Triangles-Freedoms 
matches are a natural.
Rosewall was equally excited when he 
learned of the opener. Pre-season spec
ulation has us and Philadelphia picked as 
the two strongest teams in the east, said 
the 39-year-old former world pro champ. 
Im looking forward to playing the strong 
teams right at the start-if were to be 
champs well have to beat them sooner or 
later anyway.
Rosewalls probable opponent for the 
opener is Freedoms number three pick, 
Brian Fairlie, who signed a WTT contract 
earlier this week. Fairlie is the number one 
player in his native New Zealand.
Following the Tris home opener on 
May 7th, the next three home games will 
be with New York on Sunday, May 12th; 
Baltimore on Sunday, May 19th, and Gold
en Gate on Tuesday, May 21st. Vince 
Lasheid, celebrated Pittsburgh organist, has 
been hired on to play at Triangles home 
matches. Henry Kush, Point Park College 
graduate, has been hired as the Tris team
trainer. Triangles Evonne Goolagong and 
Peggy Michel won champoinships in the 
New Zealand Open; Evonne won the 
womens singles title defeating Miss Michel, 
and then teamed with Miss Michel to capt
ure the doubles crown. Ken Rosewall is 
expected to be in Pittsburgh in early 
March.
First indications of significant results 
stemming from peace negotiations between 
World Team Tennis and the sports other 
governing bodies surfaced today when 
Gerald Battrick, the third ranking male 
player in Great Britain, signed a one-year 
contract to play for the Pittsburgh Tri
angles. He was the clubs 12th round se
lection in last Augusts WTT draft.
A member of the Association of Tennis 
Professionals, Battrick becomes the first 
ATP player to sign with team tennis with
out the fear of reprisal from the player 
union. Last week ATP removed its objec
tions to union players from signing WTT 
contracts. Prior to the lifting of the ban, 
only a handful of ATP members chose to 
risk signing with World Team Tennis.
The 26-year old native of Wimbledon, 
England, is also under contract with Lamar 
Hunts World Championship Tennis (WCT 
competes from January to May and will 
not interfere with World Team Tennis), 
and last year finished with a WCT record of 
nine wins and ten losses, not a bad finish 
considering his group featured such high 
ranking stars as Stan Smith, Rod Laver, 
Roy Emerson, Cliff Richey, Bob Lutz, and 
Nikki Pilic.
Akadama Mama says,Be Nice to Mice*
This weeks letters 
were kind of 
dull, but I did get 
a neat package.
It contained a home 
built mouse trap. Not 
one of those hurtful, snapper, killer, 
5 & 10 things. But a genuine cant-hurtyou-and-Im-sorry-if-I-scared-you kind 
of a thing. It was made of scrap wood 
and window screen (see illus.) and I got 
a very together friend of mine to do a 
blueprint and instructions. I also have 
a friend with a copy machine, so if youd 
like a copy of the plan just mail me the 
mouse coupon.
Now that weve been nice 
to mice, Id like to give you a 
couple of my favorite Akadama 
recipes that will be nice to you.
THE VODKADAMA
of ice and lemon and orange slices. 
To make more just double, triple or 
quadruple everything.
Listen to Mama, 
and pass the Akadama.
The wine you can mix.
\ x--------/ft' \
Atlf '
 ' ' V-r'-N-x_____________
Mail to: Be Nice To Mice
Its almost harder to,-----y Palos Verdes Peninsula. Ca. 90274
^ Akadama Mama, please lay a copy of 
your very together friend s blueprintspronounce than it is to make. 
Just mix one part Akadama 
Red and one part Vodka, 
then add a iwist of lemon 
and a nicely amount of ice.
SANGRIA AKADAMA
A bottle of Akadama 
Red, a pint of club 
V4 of a can of f rozen 
ade concentrate, plenty
/ /
& instructions on me.
| Name  ______________________
 Address______________________
' City-------------------------:-----------
 State__________Zip Code_____
I FI I'm checking this box because
 / | Akadama is picking up the postage and a 
soc*a y | they would like it if I also asked you to 
t lemon A ^pass an Akadama recipe card.
^ ^lmp<irU-d b\ Suntors International L A il

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20THE TARTANTuesdc/, February 5, 1974
A. B. PRESENTS
BILLY JOEL
PLUS
Special GuestsMATTHEW & PETER
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 9,
At 8:30 P.M.
IN THE
CARNEGIE MUSIC HALL
FREE WITH A CMU I.D.
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT THE SKIBO INFORMATION DESK
