Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213
this week
Spring Carnival Revisited . page 10
Career Notes.................. page 6
Robin and Marian.............page 15
Crecine on the Humanities . page 3
April 13, 1976 Volume 76 Number 24
* PDillon Named Auxiliary Service Head
by Joan Konkle
In a major change recently made in the 
administrative structure of the university, 
the position of General Manager of Campus 
Services, previously held by Steve Zalewski, was dissolved. William Dillon, pre
viously Business Manager for CMU, will 
take over the new position of Director of 
Auxiliary Services. (According to Dillon, 
auxiliary services are those activities that 
are necessary for the university to exist but 
are not directly involved with the academic 
process.) His area of responsibility will be 
Food Service, General Stores, telephone 
office, Post Office, Parking, Vending and 
l^the Day Care Center.
According to Zalewski, the major reason 
for the elimination of Campus Services was 
that attempts to establish a Campus Ser
vices structure proved to be insufficiently 
efficient for the campus. Zalewski feels 
that there were mismatches; not people 
who are inept, but mismatches. in the 
Campus Services structure which caused 
the inefficiency.
This change will affect students in 
several ways. Dillon says the change 
most visible to students will be an im
provement in maintenance. Because the 
Housing Office had to deal with problems 
caused by the large incoming class this 
year, not much time was given to mainten
ance problems. The upkeep of the dormi
tories will no longer be separate from that 
of the rest of the university. One person 
will take charge of the physical plant of the
entire university.
Under the. new arrangement considera
bly more detailed financial records will be 
kept. This year, according to Dillon, the 
students on the housing subcommittee 
were not satisfied with the analysis we 
could provide for justifying rate increases, 
and I wasnt either. More and better infor
mation will exist for all Auxiliary Services 
next year.
Also, some student-related responsibili
ties previously handled by Business Affairs 
have been turned over to Student Affairs. 
These included disciplining students, advi
sing the fraternities and running the 
RA program. According to Richard Van 
Horn, Vice President of Business Affairs,
these (duties) should never have been 
given to the Division of Business Affairs. 
He added that responsibilities should have 
been handled by Student Affairs all along. 
It also frees Dillon to deal with the Finan
cial administration of the auxiliary services.
Zalewski feels that the work he has 
done in housing is probably going to be 
of some benefit; at least in the short run. 
The reason for the quick change "(Dillon 
has taken over already while the an
nouncement wasnt made until April 5) 
is that Dillon has had more experience than 
Zalewski in university administration, so 
no transition period is needed. Zalewski 
will remain through the summer to deve
lop Final food service plans.William Dillon, Director of Auxiliary Services
SG Election Declared Void
by Michael Baurer
In a precedent-setting decision, a spe
cial Appeals Board of the Student Senate 
voted to nullify the Student Government 
Presidential election which Peter Yacoe 
had originally won. The Board met to 
consider an appeal by David Roussos, the 
runner-up, who claimed that the election 
violated the Senate Constitution Bylaws 
and was therefore illegal. The appeal 
was founded upon three basic premises:
1) that the students were improperly in
formed of the election; 2) that the polls 
were improperly designated and arranged; 
and 3) that the polls in some of the collLayoff Vote Postponed
Faculty Senate has postponed voting on 
a set of rules governing faculty layoffs, 
*with some members contending that the 
stringency guidelines would offer them 
less protection than they already have, and 
others objecting to speciFic provisions.
The guidelines, drawn up by a trusteefaculty committee at the urging of Presi
dent Richard M. Cyert, deFine procedures 
to be followed if Financial problems some
day force CMU to Fire faculty members. 
) A number of universities which have re
cently laid off faculty due to economic 
hardship or the discontinuation of a de
partment have followed a set of guidelines 
recommended by the American Associa
tion of University Professors (AAUP).
But the use of these guidlines has fre
quently led to court battles on the part of 
fired faculty who claim they were treated
* unfairly, and President Cyert argues that a 
speciFic procedure drawn up by CMU facul
ty would provide better protection, since 
the courts have usually favored^university 
administrations over faculty.
The CMU Board of Trustees is not com
mitted to follow the AAUP guidelines, but 
Cyert has indicated he would do so if the 
faculty declines to write its own procd
ures.
I am perfectly willing to abide by a 
statement that says, We are still better off 
leaving it vague and Fighting it in the 
courts,  he said. I would disagree with 
that but abide it it.
sbur gh,enyt uruirlv aben1 n52r yb 
uh2r 3evy yShy vyhyrurpyC Rbirly s,Sed
uh,Srl. 0Stv5,v 0lbgrvvbl. Nb5pyv bey yShy 
o5php,rv ir,bur hp r6,evr gbl nhtbggv. 5y
is important that faculty be able to take 
the administration to court and force it to 
prove that the university is indeed in eco
nomic trouble.
AMS Department Head Thomas Kerr, 
a member of the committee which drafted 
the guidlines, submitted a dissent recomeges had closed before the designated 
closing time.
The Appeals Board met Tuesday night, 
April 6. After lengthy discussion and de
bate, it decided that Roussos appeal was 
valid solely on the basis of the third 
premise. The fact that the polls closed 
early, the Board felt, represented a denial 
of some students of the right to vote, and 
as such, violated Article I, Section I of 
the Constitution Bylaws, which  states, 
The president of Student Government 
of Carnegie -Mellon University shall be 
elected in a general campus election.
This is the First time in CMUs history 
that an Appeal Board was called to con
sider a presidential election. Although the 
Constitution speciFies who is to take part 
in an appeal, it is vague as to proce
dural matters. Consequently, before the 
meeting could start, it had to be decided 
who would act as chairperson, and what 
the ultimate effect of their decision 
would be. Present at the meeting were 
Jerry DiGenero, Rules Committee Chair
man; Don Simon, Student Senate Chair
person; Doug Konopka, President of StuPKA crossing the finish line for another victory.PKA Wins Sweeps
by Lou Conley
Sweepstakes 76 is now history. PKA 
successfully defended their last years ti
tle although they did not come close to 
their record setting time of 1975. The 
times in general this year were quite slow 
with PKA A in. first place with a 
2:23 J, BTP A in second with a 2:24.6 
and ATO A in third with a 2:25.0. The
races went very smoothly this year and 
there was only one minor accident during 
the entire ty/o days of racing. The races 
proved to be as exciting as everyone had 
predicted. The competition was Fierce 
and only 7.0 seconds separated the top 
eight buggies. The freeroll times were in 
general as fast or faster than previous 
years, but the hill times were much slowcontinued ontwenty-one
dent Government; Teresa Bona, President 
of United Fraternal Organization; Cheryl 
Lawson, President of Student Dorm 
Council; George Bachner, President of the 
Carnegie-Commuter Council of Pitts
burgh; and the two candidates, Peter Ya
coe and David Roussos.
Immediately it was decided that DiGenaro, because of his role in running 
the election, and Simon, because he him
self was also a candidate, could not par
ticipate as voting members of the Board. 
The four remaining eligible voting mem
bers then listened to the two contending 
candidates arguments as to what was re
levant in the appeal.
Roussos argued each of his points as 
being individual grounds for aborting the 
election, choosong to dispense with a 
possible fourth point regarding the 
questionable endorsement of Yacoe by 
the CCCP. He attacked the TARTAN for 
not printing the views of all the Candi
dates. (There was no TARTAN between 
the petition due date, when it became 
known who was running, and the elec
tion.) In an effort to make known his 
,bpy5per1 bp NhMr yarpyt
obb1 srlc5,r Hrh1 mnr,yr1
by Wendy Dolson
John Eichmuller has, as of April 9, 
1976, been appointed new Food Service 
Director. Eichmuller, who has been 
Acting Director since Rita Cohen left 
the post in October of 1975, was selected 
by a search committee that reviewed 
proposals made by some 40 applicants. 
The candidates ranged from other quali
fied individuals to national services inclu
ding ARA, Custom Food, Key Manage
ment, and Servomation. The committees 
decision after nearly half a years search 
was that Eichmuller, who has fourteen 
years of food service experience was the 
man for the job. (He has worked for 
the University of Pittsburgh, Franklin and 
Marshall College, the Joseph Home Com
pany, and CMU.)
Many suggestions have been put forth 
in reference to the inprovement of 
Food Service. They separate readily into 
three categories: training of staff, facili
ties, and presentation of food. Other pro
posals are being carefully studied. Eichmuller is planning a trip to Kent State 
continued bp

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2-THE TARTAN-Apri I 13,1976editors note
What is CMU?
AhlprM5r97rnnbp 5vh 1tphu5, 5pvy5yey5bp
Despite the fact that Managers Mind the University, CMU 
seems to have trouble attracting and maintaining the right 
kind of personnel. For example, during the past four years at 
least fifteen different people have filled four different posts 
within the Division of Business Affairs. (Auxilary Services . . C 
Campus Services . . .Operations). Steve Zalewski is the most 
recent case of ,,reorganization,,f having received a pink slip 
after only six months of service as Director of the now de
funct Campus Services. Food Service fans might remember 
a similar incident involving Rita Cohen. Whatever the reason, 
those looking for job security need not apply for openings at 
CMU.
VAhlprM5r97rnnbp 5v h grrn5pM4 h aht bg 1b5pM yS5pMvCk
So what if only two out of sixteen students who signed the 
proclamation "We the class of seventy-six were actually 
seniors, that just means that students from all classes (with 
the possible exception of the senior class) are interested in 
having direct influence on how money is spent at CMU.  So 
what if only a week after the announcement of his ap
pointment, a new athletic coach (famous for his recruitment 
abilities) applies for a position at another institution, he did 
not leave. So what if CMU gives athletes application fee 
waivers even though it is against league rules, all our competi
tors are doing it. So what if student leaders would like to 
continue havinq press conferences with Dr. Cyert, he doesnt 
see the need since he feels there are no major announcements 
to make.
CMU is indeed a way of doing things.
Vxy 5v 5yv vye1rpyv. Nhvy hp1 Nlrvrpy ,bpyl5iey5pM yb 
uh2r 5y vburNnh,r vNr,5hnk
Whether it is the food served in Ski bo (which emits a 
feeling all its own) or the crowding of the dorms, very few 
CMU students hesitate to air their complaints (atleast among 
themselves). Periodically these complaints compile into a 
major protest. One year it Mas a Skibo Boycott because of 
the no seconds policy, another witnessed the Drama Depart
ment protesting changes in their department and this past 
year students in the Architecture Department protested. 
Whatever the cause, the students of Carnegie-Mellon make it 
someplace special. A ft-erali, the administration couldn't run 
the university without them.
sburyS5pM ,hp ir Mh5pr1 hy A7f yShy ,hppby ir gbep1
hy nhlMrl vyhyr ep5crlv5y5rv4 rh,S vye1rpy 5v pby5,r1
CMU is a realtively small university and thus the student 
can avoid the usually cumbersome bureaucracy associated 
with the larger state universities. Registration consists of 
simply running around campus to each academic department 
in order to get a signature on a registration card. These cards 
are simple to obtain, you need only go to your academic ad
visor and convince him that you know what you are doing 
while filling out the three part class order form.
Enrollment is also a simple matter. You need only pick up 
your 3-D form (a mammoth collection of computerized 
codes) and complete the missing information. Larger schools 
have comparable systems, but at CMU you get all the advan
tages of the small school without sacrificing the paper work 
associated with the larger ones.
AhlprM5r97rnnbp 5v h VPrlt 0rlvbphn m6Nrl5rp,rk
Despite its apparent flaws (which become progressively less 
apparent as one prepares to graduate) students at CMU are 
given every possible oppqrtunity to grow both academically 
and socially. There is enough flexibility and freedom for 
each student to define his or her own educational niche and 
to proceed in the manner which yields that individual the 
most success. CMU encourages dear and concise thinking. 
This enables the CMU student to deal with the issue rather 
than becoming entrapped by the theoretical  ideals. 
Carnegie-Mellon University has provided what, in my opinion 
has been a first rate undergraduate education through the 
combination of academic programs and the availability of 
non-c/assroom,  'extracurricular - - activity.
Gary Singer, Editor
letters
AAA0 Tby xnnrM5y5uhyr 
m15yblE
We would like to clear up 
some of your obvious misunder
standings about the operation of 
the CCCP and its role in the last 
Student Government election.
1) The CCCP is under new 
management. We are com
mitted to making the 
CCCP a useful organiza
tion for commuters. We 
are not responsible for the 
actions of the CCCPs past 
administration.
2) The CCCP did endorse 
Pete Yacoe in the election 
last week. Mr. Yacoe looks 
favorably on CCCP opera
tions; this is more than 
what can be said for past 
presidents.
The CCCPs recent news
letter was the first publi
cation of the organization 
in over a year. We have 
been associated with the 
CCCP only since Febru
ary. Again we emphasize 
that we are not responsi
ble for our predecessors
errors. Since only about 
10% of the newsletter 
was devoted to Yacoe, we 
dont understand why the 
TARTAN would want to 
imply that the letters onlj 
purpose was to endorse 
Pete.
3) We see nothing wrong with 
the Councils endorsement 
of Pete Yacoe. Roussos 
claimed to be endorsed by 
the United Commuter 
Organization, a group 
that doesnt even exist. 
Last year Doug Konopka 
won only with the unified 
support of Greeks on cam
pus.
We also want to emphasize 
that the CCCP plans to get com
muters involved in events such as 
Spring Carnival (1977 plans are 
underway) and other activities in 
which they have not participated 
in the recent past. THE CCCP IS 
NOT AN ILLEGITIMATE 
ORGANIZATION.
IrblMr 0C h,Sprl 
0lrv51rpy
"hurv C 75nnrl 
o5php,5hn sr,lryhlt
Art Supply Prices Compared 
Editor:
Earlier this semester the Stu
dent Advisory Committee of the 
Art Department conducted a 
survey of large and small art sup
ply stores in the Pittsburgh area. 
We were responding to com
plaints that the Art Store at 
CMU was not attempting to 
price competitively and that the 
convenience of the Art Store 
forces students to patronize it.
The results of our survey 
revealed that the Art Store of
fers a sizeable discount on all 
items sold by the larger suppliers 
and are also priced equally or 
cheaper than the smaller art 
stores. Excepting items such as 
Gesso (which Vidmunk can sell 
in bulk to customers with their 
own containers) and paper 
(which students in groups regu
larly order at bulk rates) the Art 
Store at CMU is conscientious in 
purchasing quality materials at 
the request of faculty and stu
dents, some at a discount not 
available elsewhere.
The SAC would like to
Volume 76tartan
April 13, 1976Number 24
Editor in Chief 
Gary Singer
7hphM5pM Editor:Charles Mitch 
ev5prvv 7hphMrlE Thomas Kirkland 
Trav m15yblE Debbie Rosenkrantz 
mpyrlyh5purpy Editor:Randell Hunt 
XlhNrWr m15yblE Rick Costa 
sNblyv m15yblE Elly Zimmerman 
0SbybMlhNSt m15yblE Elliot Popowitz
Staff Photographers: Tim Fabian, Mary Kay Groupe, James Johnston, Kathi Leichter, Mark Segal, Fred 
Shamlian, Carl West, and Paul Williams.
Copyrighted 1976 by the Carnegie -Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit 
or withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for pubication. Funded in part by the Student Govern
ment of Carnegie -Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50. 14121 621- 
2600 extensior? 656 or 481. Business Offices: Skibo 52; 14121 682-4557.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

---------------------------------------------------

news comment
XHm XFRXFTOFNl5n LYCLGDU90hMr Y
\iEU FSOD THE TO?
For some time it has been 
fashionable to speculate on the 
future of the humanities at 
CMU, to comment on the qual
ity of the H&SS educational pro, grams, students and faculty, to 
^ assail and exhort the administra
tion for one or another alleged 
sin against H&SS and to offer a 
variety of suggestions for im
provement of the situation. 
Much public discussion shows 
great insight and reflects serious 
thought and concern. Unfortu
nately, however, much of the 
^ public discussion on H&SS and 
liberal education, within and 
without the College, is based on 
some important factual misper
ceptions. 1 would like to take 
this opportunity to discuss a few 
of the more important misper
ceptions.
f H&SS Students
It is relatively common know
ledge that H&SS accepts a higher 
percentage of people who apply 
for admission than the other un
dergraduate programs. It is also 
common knowledge that a per
centage of the students who 
have been rejected by the Col^ lege of Fine Arts are encouraged 
to apply for admission to H&SS. 
These observations are basically 
correct. The inference is that in
dividually and jointly these two 
policies have conspired to sev
erely erode the quality of stud
ents enrolled in H&SS. If one 
can rely on Scholastic Aptitude 
*) Test scores in making compari
sons of H&SS freshman entering 
classes both over time and with 
other CMU undergraduate pro
grams (CFA, CIT, and MIS), the 
inference is false. The facts are 
that SAT test scores in both 
math and verbal aptitude for en
rolled freshmen have been dej dining for freshmen in all CMU 
undergraduate programs but at 
rates below the declines nation
ally. Since 1971, the test score 
declines among successive H&SS 
freshmen classes have been no 
greater than in any other CMU 
college and, in the case of math 
aptitude scores, the declines 
^ have been relatively less. Fur
ther, the verbal aptitude test 
scores for Hwss freshmen are in
distinguishable from those of 
CIT, 7xs. and AoF freshmen 
and have been over the past five
years. CIT and MIS freshmen, 
understandably, have higher 
math aptitude scores than H&SS 
freshmen.
The students who apply for 
admission to H&SS are, for the 
most part, fairly self-selective. 
Up to a point, an increase in the 
admission rate does not imply a 
proportionate decrease in studothers on campus that H&SS 
students somehow cant do 
mathematics. It may be that 
many H&SS freshmen chose not 
to do math or anything related 
but, if so, it is a choice not dic
tated by a lack of aptitude. The 
fact of the matter is that H&SS 
freshmen average math aptitude 
SAT scores have, for the past
rhp 0hy Alr,5prE m6Nnh5p5pM h gra u5vNrl,rNy5bpv
ent quality (as measured by SAT 
scores). If we were to cut the ad
missions rate in half, there 
would not be a dramatic increase 
in average test scores of enrolled 
freshmen. Only those CFA ap
plicants with high test scores and 
an interest in academics are 
encouraged to apply to H&SS. It 
is worth noting that the decision 
not to admit these students to 
CFA are based on the results of 
competitions (auditions and ex
amination of portfolios) with lit
tle relevance to H&SS criteria. 
Because CFA and H&SS admis
sion decisions are based on quite 
different criteria, H&SS student 
quality is not affected by a selec
tive invitation to unsuccessful 
CFA applicants.
It is commonly supposed by 
H&SS students and faculty and
four years, surpassed their verbal 
aptitude scores by 15-20 points. 
There are difficulties with com
paring math and verbal SAT 
scores, I know. The message, 
however, is that the aptitude for 
mathematics possessed by H&SS 
students is not the barrier that 
most think it is. Further, if one 
looks at the distribution of 
H&SS SAT scores about the av
erages, it is clear that there is no 
large cohort of individuals with 
math aptitude problems masked 
by the averages; there is no sig
nificant group with SATs be
low, say, 450. There is a disturb
ingly large cohort of freshmen in 
the verbal aptitude problem 
area; the writing problem 
exists for H&SS too.
C Hwss rNhlyurpyv hp1 oh,enyt
The central administration 
and the Dean, I suspect, are seen 
as being anti-humanities, pro
social science, and pro-profes
sional education. The humani
ties, the dominant view goes, are 
being cut back severely to the 
detriment of their programs and 
majors, humanities majors may 
actually be eliminated, etc. Al
though statistics do not tell the 
entire story, they are revealing. 
The two major humanities de
partments in H&SS, English and 
History and Philosophy, are the 
third and fourth largest depart
ments at CMU in terms of total 
faculty size, and .the second and 
third largest in terms of faculty 
available for teaching (total fac
ulty full-time-equivalents less 
those on sponsored research 
funds). This is hardly a story of 
departments that have been ne
glected or otherwise treated bad
ly over the years. Salaries in 
these departments, however de
plorable at the junior and inter
mediate levels, are comparable 
to those of faculty at other pri
vate universities of comparable 
ferings in the College are all 
staffed by SUPA (Social Rela
tions) and GSIA (Economics) 
faculty. Creation of a Social Sci
ence Department within the Col
lege of Humanities and Social 
quality and very competitive at 
upper levels. They are considera
bly above the lowest in the Uni
versity. Further, the English, and 
History and Philosophy Depart
ments are significantly larger at 
CMU than counterpart depart
ments in universities of compar
able size. This is all the more re
markable for a school with 
CMUs technical and profession
al focus. The humanities are a 
very significant part of this uni
versity in size and in fact. Rela
tively speaking, it would be very 
hard to make the case on objec
tive grounds that the humanities 
have been unduly deprived of re
sources by the central admini
stration or anyone else. In fact, 
the hypothesis that the social 
and behavioral sciences have 
been deprived is much more con
sistent with the facts.
Within H&SS, it may be re
vealing to look at the relative po
sitions of the humanities and the 
social and behavioral sciences. 
Currently the social sciences ofletters
,bpy5per1 glbu NhMr yab
thank Betty Thumm and Victor
ia Hill, of the Art Bookstore, for 
their cooperation.
The sFA bg rNhlyurpy bg Fly 
pb aht "bvr
Editor:
Now that a permanent Direc
tor of Food Service has been 
named, I hope we will soon see 
an improvement in the quality 
of service provided by this de
partment. Specifically, 1 wish to 
complain about the increasing 
inefficiency of the employees,
especially the servers.
An air of indifference per
vades employee morale. No at
tempt is made to provide fast, 
efficient service. Instead, the ser
ver disappears to look for an
other bag of buns even though 
three are already open in front 
of her. Just why is she always 
leaving to get more buns?
I am unable to understand 
why Food Service thinks they 
are doing us a favor with what 
they call special dinners. 
These special dinners are gen
erally the worst meals served all 
year. Whats so great about wait
ing in a longline' to be'served
miniscule portions? At a recent 
seafood special, we were given 
each time through the line, one 
tiny shrimp, one microscopic 
scallop, and one tiny stuffed 
clam, along with unlimited por
tions of inedible garbage. These 
rations, along with the paper 
plates with tacky bicentenial 
pictures on them, made one feel 
like one was in a bread line, re
ceiving handouts from the gov
ernment. Just as bad is sitting 
down to eat and finding that all 
the tables are covered with filthy 
old newspapers, supposedly to 
create atmosphere. Some atmo
sphere, more like a body sh<jp
than a cafeteria.
The recent bicentennial din
ner was especially bad. For this 
all-American meal we were 
served Swiss steak, barbecued 
spare ribs (no where near as 
good as those found in Chinese 
restaurants) and soggy bread 
with a few unrecognizable veget
ables mixed in.
Contract holders are paying a 
substantial sum of money for 
food service, and commensurate 
service is not being provided.
Name Withheld
Letters are due on Wednesday 
'athn date
Sciences seems to have been in
terpreted by some as an indica
tion that the central administra
tion is somewho out to get the 
humanities. My own view (one
I hope is not without signifi
cance in this continuing discus
sion) is that the development of 
the College is a sequential pro
cess, that now it is time to com
plete the organizational and in
tellectual construction of H&SS 
by adding the social science 
component. It is now social sci
ences turn.
Should anyone think that the 
social and behavioral science 
course offerings in H&SS are too 
few, I invite an examination of 
the Fall, 1976-77, Schedule of 
Classes on that point. I am sure, 
for example, that the prevalent 
opinion is that the Psychology 
Department has been treated 
much more generously by the 
central administration over the 
years. If one looks at faculty size 
as an indication of department
al prosperity, we find the Psy
chology faculty declined from a 
high of 27.5 FTE faculty in 
1970-71 to its current size of 18 
FTE in 1975-76, a decline of 
nearly 35%. During the same 
period, the size of the History 
and Philosophy faculty declined 
by 10% and English by 26%, 
with most of them accounted 
for by reductions in English and 
History course requirements 
across the campus. Given this 
was a period during which Psy
chology was firmly establishing 
an international reputation and 
bringing in over a half million 
dollars a year in sponsored re
search monies, I find it difficult 
to take seriously the notion that 
the humanities have somehow 
been an unfairly deprived group 
at CMU. CMU continues to supoort a large humanities faculty 
because it is an integral part of a 
liberal education and is integral 
to first-rate professional educa
tion.
It is true that English and His
tory and Philosophy were asked 
to reduce their base budgets by 
amounts equivalent to two and 
one junior faculty, respectively, 
for 1976-77. This was to provide 
partial financing for a new Social 
Science Department in the Col
lege; more than half of the finan
cing came from the central ad
ministration. The relatively 
modest reductions in the sizes of 
the two largest humanities de
partments have generally been 
interpreted in the negative sense 
of the administration being out 
to get the humanities rather 
than as a serious attempt to cre
ate a balanced faculty in support 
of humanities and social sciences 
curricula. For the record, I 
might add that the central ad
ministration did not dictate the 
cuts. In some sense these rela
tively modest reductions antici
pate the national trends showing 
significant long-run declines in 
numbers of humanities majors.
John P. Crecine, Dean 
College of Humanities & 
Social Sciences

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4THE TARTANApril 13.1976
announcements
"EXIT INTERVIEWS" FOR ALL MAY.
1976 GRADUATES with National De
fense/Direct Student Loans and/or Institu
tional Loans will be held from April 5th 
to April 13th. Please call Mrs. Jacoby 621- 
2600 ext. 219 or come to the Cashier's 
Office, Warner Hall Concourse to set up an ' 
appointment.
Kits containing information about Com
mencement should be picked up by gradu
ate and undergraduate candidates at their 
departmental offices during the week of 
April 19. Five Commencement invitations 
are included in each kit.
Mr. T.N. Kaul, Indian Ambassador to the
US, will speak at 8:30 pm in KURTZMANN ROOM, Schenley Hall (Student 
Union Building), University of Pittsburgh. 
All are welcome.
Final exam date for 82-107 Programmed
French: Saturday, May 1st 1976, in BH 
231. Students will be able to come to take 
the exam from 10 am on until 3 pm.
MELLON INSTITUTE
May 31 Monday Memorial Day Closed 
June 1 Tuesday Resume Regular Schedule 
CAMPUS
May 31 Monday Memorial Day Closed 
Starting May 10, no night switchboard 
operator on duty. Calls will be answered by 
the Security Dept.
SUMMER SCHEDULE 
Monday through Friday 8:00 am-5:15 pm 
Saturday 8:30 am-1:00 pm
REGULAR SCHEDULE AS OF SEPT. 7 
Monday through Friday 8:00 am-8:00 pm 
Saturday 8:30 am-1:00 pm
La Table Franaise will meet evry Thurs
day from noon on in the Morewood cafe
teria. Please come and lunch in your best 
French with us! (This activity is sponsored 
by CMU's Club Francophone.)
John P. Crecine, Dean of the College of
Humanities & Social Sciences will have 
open office hours for students, Tuesdays 
from 1:30 to 5:00.
You are cordially invited to attend the
opening of the Carnegie-Mellon University 
Senior Designers Thesis Exhibition. This 
event takes place April 12, 7:30-10:30 pm, 
at the Equitable Building, 2 Oliver Plaza, 
Pittsburgh. Open April 13-29, weekdays
10 am-5 pm (closed Good Friday).
PREMEDS: It is no longer necessary to
send application cards to the Association 
of American Medical Colleges to obtain 
American Medical College Application Ser
vice (AMCAS) packets. Complete AMCAS 
packets for the 1977-78 entering medical 
class are available now from A.J. Streiff 
in DH 2114.
MED-X LECTURES: The last Med-X Vol
unteers Lecture will be given on Thursday, 
April 22, at Shadyside Hospital Auditor
ium at 7:30 pm. The speaker will be Ed
ward Glassburn, MD and the subject will be 
Otolaryngology. All studenets and faculty 
are invited.
The German Table meets every Tuesday
from 11:45 to whenever, in the smaller 
cafeteria, Skibo lower level, for lunch and 
informal discussion in German. All German 
speakers, students, and everyone interested 
in German, regardless of fluency, is invited 
to attend.
Are you a commuter interested in attend
ing a Bible study next fall during the day? 
Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship will
make all the arrangements if you will send 
a copy of your fall schedule, or your pre
ferred times, to Dave King, c/o the Compu
tation Center, through Campus  Mail.
CHRISTIANITY AND SCIENCE (66-314)
is the title of an interdisciplinary course in 
the College of Humanities and Social Sci
ences to be offered in the fall semester of 
176. Following a rapid survey of tradi
tional problems at the interface between 
science and Christian theology, such as cos
mology, evolution determinism and free 
will, the topic of science and miracles will 
be discussed in somewhat greater depth. 
Preregistration will 'take place in the His
tory Department. For further information 
contact Professor Robert Griffiths, Depart
ment of Physics, Science Hall 6309, phone 
621-2600, ext. 8816.
Friends of the Earth presents POWERS
THAT BE, the NBC documentary you 
were forbidden to see. Monday, April 12,
8 pm, Laura Falk Auditorium (Mellon Hall 
of Science), Duquesne University. Tuesday, 
April 13, 8 pm, 201 Lawrence Hall, Forbes 
Avenue and Thursday, April 15,8 pm, 203 
Learning Research and Development Cen
ter, O'Hara Street, University of Pitts
burgh. The film is a harsh, penetrating look 
at the nuclear power industry by Emmy 
award winner, Don Widener. Don't miss it. 
This may be your only chance. Free! Open 
to the public.
SUMMER EMPLOYMENT PROGRAM:
Allegheny County, Department of Man
power/1500 Allegheny Building/429 
Forbes Avenue/Pittsburgh, Pa. 15219. Will 
be dependent upon federal funds appro
priated by Congress. Will hire approximate
ly 4500 disadvantaged young people be
tween the ages of 14 and 22 to work for 7 
hours a day, 5 days a week for 8 weeks at a 
wage of $2.30 per hour.
Applications available in Office of Career 
Services & Placement, Room 19, Warner 
Hall.
FRIENDS OF WORLD TEACHING is
pleased to announce that hundreds of 
teachers and administrators are still needed 
to fill existing vacancies with overseas 
American Community schools, interna
tional, private, church-related, and indus
try-supported schools and colleges in over 
120 countries around the world. FRIENDS 
OF WORLD TEACHING will supply appli
cants with updated lists of these schools 
and colleges overseas. Vacancies exist in al
most all fields -- at all levels. Foreign langauge knowledge is not required. Qualifi
cation requirements, salaries, and length 
of service vary from school to school, but 
in most cases are similar to those in the US. 
For further information, prospective appli
cants should contact:
FRIENDS OF WORLD TEACHING 
P.O. Box 6454 
Cleveland, Ohio 44101
The AB Film Committee will hold its last
meeting tonight in Skibo 33 at 7:00. All 
are welcome to come and pick some mov
ies.
"Use and Abuse of Drugs," will be the
topic of this week's free public seminar 
to be held at the Central Medical Pavillion 
on Thursday, April 15, 1976 beginning at 
7:30 pm.
The Central Medical Pavillion is located at 
1400 Centre Avenue, directly across from 
the Civic Arena. Enclosed parking is availblae in the adjoining parking garage.
The speaker for this week's seminar on 
"Use and Abuse of Drugs, will be Cyril H. 
Wecht, MD.
Interdisciplinary teams of students from
the Electrical, Mechanical, and Civil Engi
neering Departments will present results of 
their project work under the theme "Mic
roprocessors in Engineering done in the 
course Analysis, Synthesis and Evaluation 
III. The presentation will take place on 
Monday, April 26, 1976 starting at 7:00 
pm in Scaife Hall 125. Open to the public, 
sponsored by Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology.
Writers: You can win $100; $50; or $25
for best short story, humorous essay, or 
other short pieces between 250 and 1000 
words, if you enter the Collegiate Creative 
Writing Contest whose deadline is APRIL 
30. For rules and official entry form, send 
self-addressed, stamped envelope to inter
national Publications, 4747 Fountain Ave, 
Suite 1-C, Los Angeles, CA 90029.
MIN ICON II - The second of a series of 2
EE Miniconferences on pattern recognition 
techniques will be held in Scaife Hall Aud
itorium (SH 125) on Monday, April 26 
from 2:30 to 5:30 pm. Open to the public. 
Free coffee and donuts will be served.
This is to advise students with two years
remaining at CMU that applications for the 
Two Year ROTC Program must be initiated 
by 15 April 1976. If you are looking for a 
chance to earn a summer income and open
ing an additional job option upon gradua
tion, contact Major John P. Carey, Ext 
281/282.
A/Fssxoxm Fs w 0mRsJTF/s
'CK8 h abl1 Nh51 5p h1chp,r 
1er ySr :r1prv1ht irgblr Nein5,hy5bp 
F1 5pvrly5bp gbluv hch5nhinr 5p ySr Xhlyhp 
bgg5,r4 s25ib 8Z
The TARTAN congratulates the SPRING
CARNIVAL COMMITTEE for a job well 
done.
Typesetters are needed by the TARTAN
for next year. Will train, must be able to 
type well. Pay $2.00/hr. Call 682-4557 or 
come to TARTAN office, Room 50, Skibo.
Graduate Student or Professional wanted
to share large house. Please call 644-3380 
daytime and ask for Liz, or 731-3357 even
ings and ask for Steve.
Will type papers, reports, theses, etc., at
reasonable rates. Call 687-2780 after 6 pm.
COUNSELORS, over 19 for unique over
night boys summer camp near Gettysburg, 
Penna. Able to instruct either one of fol
lowing: Watersafety, Waterskiing, Boating, 
Riflery, Ham Radio, Rocketry, Arts & 
Crafts, Riflery, or Tennis. Write Camp Dir
ector, 138 Red Rambler Drive, Lafayette 
Hill, Penna. 19444.FURN.APTS.
Specializing in Large 2 
and 3 Bedroom Apts.
Best Values Based on Space 
Quality and Proximity I 
SEPT. 1 & SUMMER SUBS 
Cheryl. Weekdays. 391-2744 
All times  Rex. 682-2340
Earn up to $80 per month for 4 hours of
your time per week. Donate Plasma at 
Sera-Tec Biologicals, 4507 Forbes Avenue 
(next to Arby's in Oakland). Open 8:45 
to 7:00 pm Mon-Thurs. 8:45 am to 4:00 
pm Fri. Phone 682-3190.
Care for about-to-be-born infant, light
housekeeping, working parents, own room, 
bath, board, salary. Sq. Hill, May 1st or 
ASAP. 521-5310. After 5:00.
Wanted: used van or small truck, in good
condition. Tom, 441-9768.
For sale: Dynaco AF6 AM-FM tuner, pat 5
preamp and stereo 80 amp. Best offer. 627- 
7989 after 7pm.
RENTERS AND RENTEES-Save time
and hassle, get together by putting your ad
vertisement on the Peer Help housing bul
letin boardthe door of 150-A, Baker Hall.
Wanted to subletfurnished, 1 bedroom
apartment, May to August, Squirrel Hill or 
Shadyside. Call 683-6960 after 4:00 pm.
Two more roommates are needed to sublet
beautiful Sq. Hill apt. this summer. Luxur
ious living is yours for $62.50 a month. 
Call 421-3310 for further information.
Summer Sublet in Shadyside. Very reason
able; acc. 2 or 3. Call 681-2142.
Sublet, June 1-Aug 31: 1 bedroom Apt.
furnished, airconditioned, modern security, 
near campus. Call 621-3312, evenings.
Apartment - Furnished one-bedroom in
Shadyside. Summer sublet with lease avail
able in September. Phone 683-0172.
Sublet: June 1-Aug 31. 1 bedroom apt
furnished, airconditioning, modern, secur
ity, near campus. Call 621-3312, evenings.
Sublet: Furnished 3 bedroom Oakland apt.
Option for fall lease. 621-7989 after 7 pm.
OVERSEAS JOBS. Asia, Australia, Africa,
Europe, South America. All occupations. 
$600-$2,500. Invaluable experiences. De-' 
tails 25 cents. International Employment 
Research, Box 3893HI, Seattle, WA 98124.

---------------------------------------------------

XHm XFRXFTOFNl5n LY.LGDU90hMr 8
CE Prof Elected to NAE
by Laurie Trask
Recently, Dr. Stephen J. Fenves, a pro
fessor in the Civil Engineering department, 
was elected to the National Academy of 
Engineering. He was one of 104 American 
engineers named to the prestigious organiI* zation this year, bringing total membership 
of the NAE to 685.
The NAE was formed in 1964 as a 
branch of the National Academy of Scien
ces. The Academys responsibilities are to 
advise the Federal Government about 
science and engineering; to begin new pro
grams which would aid the nation; to pro
mote scientific research; and to honor out> standing engineers.
Dr. Fenves has been at CMU since Janu
ary 1st of 1972, where he served as head of 
the Civil Engineering Department until 
February of 1975. He came to CMU after 
spending fourteen years at the University 
of Illinois. Fenves left there because
There were too many institutional con
straints. He complained that he needed 
permission from the state to get new pro
jects started and that it often took a long 
time to initiate anything.Their (Univer
sity of Illinois) Civil Engineering depart
ment was as large as our entire school of 
technology. . . They produced one-third of 
all Ph.Ds in CE in America during the 
late 1960s.
Dr. Fenves is currently engaged in two 
major projects. I am working to develop 
standards for earthquake resistant designs. 
Im traveling to California monthly to serve 
on an eighty person committee called the 
Applied Technology Council. The National 
Science Foundation has put them in charge 
of creating buildings to survive earth
quakes.
His second project is connected with the 
first one, as it deals with uncoding complex
building codes into simpler, more uniform 
computer programs. Building codes and 
specifications are written in a haphazard 
fashion. They are not complete, easy to 
follow, or easy for students to learn . . . 
Im working on techniques for represent
ing information, cross-referencing, outlin
ing, checking for consistency and omis
sions.
In addition, he is also involved with the 
formation of the Advanced Building Stu
dies Program. This is a graduate level 
program between Civil Engineering, Archi
tecture, and SUPA. We want to develop 
professionals who can work together as 
well as with people from other disciplines. 
Large projects can only be made by large 
teams. The day of the Master Builder is 
gone forever.
Dr. Fenves says that his most challeng
ing project was completed nearly thir
teen years ago. It was the first large pro
gram for structural analysis. At that time 
there were hundreds and hundreds of small
,bpy5per1 bp NhMr v56
AAA0v (mp1blvrurpy ( 7h1r 
:5ySbey bhl1v Abpvrpy
syrNSrp orpcrv. pra uruirl bg TFm
by Debbie Rosenkrantz
CCCPs endorsement of Peter Yacoe, 
winner of the March 30-31 Student Go
vernment presidential election,fwas made 
without the knowledge of their full execu
tive board.
According to CCCPs constitution, all 
commuting senators are part of the execu
tive board. When George Bachner, presi
dent of CCCP was asked why Don Simon, a 
commuting senator and a candidate for 
Student Government president was not 
informed of the meeting where the en
dorsement took place, he replied, Changes 
have been made in the CCCP constitution 
over the past year and a half.  which 
took away positions held by senators on 
the executive board. Bachner was informed
that all changes made in their constitution 
are invalid because their constitution 
contains no amendment article. Because of 
this, all amendments must be approved by 
Student Senate. Senate has no record of 
these changes. Bachners comment was 
Thank you for telling me. I didnt know. 
Bachner plans to discuss this development 
with the people he presently considers to 
be on the executive board. In the future, 
Bachner plans to have a newsletter that 
is more frequent than the one that has 
gone out this year. (It has gone out only 
once.) According to Bachner, four mem
bers of the executive board have agreed 
that in the future the newsletter . . . 
wont endorse any candidate, but will say 
when and where the election will be held.
0hl25pM Rhyrv fN 
gbl ohnn bg DU
by Joseph Bartnicki
The Parking Committee is planning to 
increase the parking capacity of three ots. 
This will be paid- for by increasing all 
parking fees.
They plan to double the capacity of the 
Fine Arts lot by putting in another row of 
spaces on the other side where the sidewalk 
is presently. Campus lighting and landscap
ing in this area will also be improved.
The south end of the Morewood Gar
dens lot would be expanded and the 
parking stalls realigned to include another 
40 cars.
The Science Hall parking lot, at the end 
near Hammerschlag, would be expanded to 
take care of 15 additional cars.
The reason for the expansion is to re
move some of the congestion caused by 
selling more spaces than are available.
Priority in the assignment of spaces will 
be given to applications turned m by April 
30th. Rates are listed below.
Lot No.LocationRate
1Fine Arts$140
2Donner80
3Margaret Morrison60
4Doherty House40
5Skibo (large)60
6Skibo (small)75
7Fraternities40
8Morewood Gardens40
9Warner Hall100
10Mellon Institute60
11Porter/Science175
12Baker175
Evening20
Motorcycles5
XHm mFX/msE XSr ohienbev syblt bg "bSp. 
0hen. IrblMr B R5pNbC AbuNnryr h,,bepy bg ySr 
ubvy hvybep15pM NSrpburpbp xp ypr aSbnr b 
uev5,hn S5vyblt. hp 5py5uhyr c5ra by ySr rhynrv 
glbu br)5ppnpM yb rp1E ySr5l uev5,. fCsCC ybel bg 
LGUB. rrynr 15uvC rrynr Srh1n5prv. ySr ilrh29 
eN. ublrCC oennt xnnevylhyr1 a5yS NSbybMlhNSv. 
bcrl LKK genn ,bnblC sNr,5hn BCG
0xAXJRxF/ HxsXJR Jo :JR/ :F ! xxC t 
AShlnrv Hrlln1MrC Alhuur1 a5yS xnnevylhy5bp w 
rpShp,r1 it r6,rnnrpy al5y5pM. yS5v ibb2 ,hNyelrv 
ySr 1lhuh hp1 NhySbv bg ybyhn ahl bp hnn ySr 
uh5bl glbpyv. bp nhp1. h5l w vrh. 1rN5,y5pM ySr 
hMbpt bg ySr ihyynr9yblp hp1 ySr pbp9,buihyhpyv 
,heMSy eN xp ySr Srhlyilrh2 bg ahl bp ySr Sbur 
glbpyC sNr,5hn DCG
mPmR IRmFX AHmss 0/FmR :Fs JTAm 
F mIxTTmRC t tgnrn1 B JlN5p4 nnnevC it 
Fnhp Alr,2prnnC Xab pbp9,ShuN5bp. vrng9yheMSy 
,Shvv Nnhtrlv. ,nhhlnt bivrvvr1 a5yS ySr Mhur. 
Nlrvrpy h irM5pprlv ,Srvv ibb2 yShy 5v gep yb lrh1. rhvt yb ep1rlvyhp1. hp1 p5,r yb nbb2 hyC 
oenn ,bnbl 1lManpMv ySlbeMSbeyC
Jl5M5phnnt ZBCG shn& GCG
xsFsXmRsE olbu ySr 0hMrv bg XSr Tra bl2 
X5urvC m1C it qhtnnp B lbapC 7blr yShp LBK 
15vhvyrlv hv lrNblyr1 xp XSr Tra bl2 X5urv. 
glbu ySr Mlrhy AS5,hMb g5lr. xp LDL. yb ySr ,lhvS 
bg h 3ry h5l,lhgy hy qrppr1t F5lNbly. xp LGD8C 
Jcrl 150 xnnevylhy5bpv
Jl5M5phnnt Y8CKK shnr LZCG
CHRISTIAN ART bg ySr ByS yb LZyS ,rpyel5rvC 
Superb velcrt bg rhlnt ASl5vy5hp hly ,bpyh5p5pM 
LKL full color 5nnevylhy5bpv bg ylrhvelrv glbu ibyS 
East 4 West - Mbn1 4 v5ncrlahlr. 5cbl5rv. ylrv,brv. 
mosaics, ,Sel,Srv 4 ublr 9 yrvy5gt5pM yb ySr 
Mrp5ev bg ASl5vy5hp ,lhgyvurp 4 hly5vyv
shnr LCBG
EXPRESSIONISM ANO FAUVISM. By Kristian 
Sotrlffer. Impressive study of the background) 
chief exponents, 4 the key graphic works pro
duced during the early years of this century by 
Kandinsky, Vlaminck, Kollwltz. Kirchner. 4 
many others - Includes full biographies of the 
artists 4 their major works. DK Illustrations, LK 
full color plates.
Pub. at *12.95 Sale *7.9*
THE SURREALISTS. By William Gaunt. Splen
didly Illustrated book providing a fully represen
tative selection of Surrealist paining 4 sculpture, 
unraveling the mysteries 4 tracing the develop
ment of the movement. INcludes a section of 
biographies 4 over 100 outstanding color plates. 
Pub. at *30.00 Sale *19.9*
BRUEGEL. By Max Seidel 4 RCHC Marljnssen. 
Superb volume presenting the works of Pieter 
Bruegel the Elder (1525 to 1569). An authori
tative text covering Ms life 4 background as well 
as the oeuvre, e catalog of his paintings, detailed 
chronology rf W1 life. 4 over 200 reproductions 
of his pair*Inga, 30 hand-tipped plates In full 
color. Chronological table; Bibliography; Index. 
335 pe^s
Pub. at *90.00 Sale 29.9*
INDOOR PLANTS' by J. Ward 4 Peskett. me 
easiest guide of all to choosing 4 successfully 
growing indoor plants, fragrant herbs 4 miniature 
trees that will bring beauty to every home 240 
photos, 40 full color. Special *3.9
HOUSEPLANTS AND INOOOR GARDENING, 
y Cyril Harris. Practical 4 attractive guidebook 
for both expert and novice plant growers. Special 
chapters on favorite Indoor plants (foliage 4 
flowering), bulbs, cacti, and ferns- how to grow 
roaes indoors, cultivate bonsai, make bottle4 fish 
gardens, and much more. Over 120 photos, 50 In 
superb color. Pub. at *10.00 Sale *4.9*
THE BEST OF HOUSE PLANTS' By Susanna 
Mltchel. A professional horticulturist presents a 
tact-filled, comprehensive picture 4 text record 
of the finest house plants available today, offer 
In* full details on selection 4 cere for both 
the novice 4 old-hand plant lovers. Special *4.9*
FLOWER ARRANGING: A PRACTICAL
GUIDE TO-ARRANGING FRESH ANO Rxm 
FLOWERS. By Helen Chase. Complete Introduct Ion to the art ot arranging flowers In the homeadvice on equlpoment, conditioning 4 containers; 
flowers for eech season treated separately; buying 
flowers 4 planning your own garden for year 
round cut flowers, more. Over 100 full color 
kotos 4 drawings. Appendix
Special *5.9*
POHTWAJT* OP MONTH AMERICAN INOIAN
r Edward S Curtaa. The monumental claaaic Apt spirit of the Indian litaetyle TTus collection 
I over eighty fuU-aue zLY s LDj portraits, each 
for fraaua*. Each photograph psaaen  the 
beaaty and petboa of India life A mat tar colleciors A* el US 00 n wy 11M
Book Store 
Spring Book Sale
ih2rl Shnn
1471. THE PENGUIN COMPANIONS TO WORLD 
LITERATURE 4 cbneur vry ,bpyh5p5pM bcrl D.8KK rpd
yl5rv ,bcrl5pM mpMn5vSC Furp,rpC melbNrhp hp1 Anhvvqrn. 
Jl5rpyhn k Fgl5,hp n5yrlhyelr mh,S rpylt veuuhl5Wrv ySr 
uh5p rcrpyv bg h al5yrlv n5gr. ,bpv51rlv S5v abl2 ,l5y5,hnnt. 
beyn5prv uhpt Nnbyv. 51rpy5g5rv nrh15pM ,Shlh,yrlv 5p Sepd
1lr1v bg ibb2vC Abpyh5pv i5in5bMlhNS5rv yShy 15lr,y ySr 
lrh1rl yb ySr irvy r15y5bpv. yb ylhpvnhy5bpv &Srlr hch5nhinr. 
yb ySr ubhy lrn5hinr i5bMlhNS5rv k chnehinr ,l5y5, v5 vye15rv 
Jcrl Z.ZKK NhMrv rnevr r1 C ibep1 5p ie,2lhu a5yS v5n2 
NhMr uhl2rlv hp1 vn5N,hvr1
Pub hy SS0 00 Only LG G
MM. THE RENAISSANCE 4 MANNERISM M NORTHERN EURO 4 SPAIN. t Fnhvyh5l suhly LD 
5nnev C "n 5p oenn Abnbl oenn ,buNyrvC hivbli5pM vyblt bg 
ySr Rrph5vvhp,r beyv51r xyhnt9ySr urry5pM bg h lrc5cr1 
,nhhh5, h? hpy5)e5yt  h vy5nn9c5Mblbev ur15rchn pblySrlp k 
x ir php ,enyelrOrh,S lrM5bp lr,r5c5pM vrNhlhyr ylrhyd
urpyC rh,S uh3bl hly5vy k v,Sbbn ,Shlh,yrl5vr1 a5yS5p ySr 
,enyelhn ,bpyrvyoy v5 U G8 Only LCG
MM HANDYMAN. COMPLETE GUIOt TO HOME
MAINTENANCE. 7blr 5Srp 8KK NrMrv bg MW NSbybv 
k 1lha5pMv obl ySr ubvy hui5y5bev. bl ySr ubhy ub1rvy. 
Sbur Shp1tuhp hnn ySr 5pgbluhy5bp tbe ,ben1 Nbhh5int 
prr1 v5 tbel g5pMrly5Nv Abcrlv Shp19ybbnvC Nbarl ybbnv. 
ie5n15pM uhyrl5hnv. Nh5pyv k g5p5vSrv Xrnnv aShy yb 1b yb 
a5p1bav. 1bblv. ,nbvryv. 1lharlv. vSrncrv. ahnnv. gnbblv 
hp1 ,r5n5pMv Hba yb Shp1nr r5nrpbl uh5pyrphp,r Nneuid
5pMC rnr,yl5,5yt. a5ppMC lrub1rn5pM. gelp5yelr lrNh5l hp1 
ue,S ublrPub el H4 " Only t.M
& indoorC'vtiOiw*
M| 
0/FPJPs JJq Jo /x7mRxAqsC m1C it 
An5ggbl1 7C Al5vyC JcrlaSrnu5pMnt Mrprlbev 
veNNnt bg ylh15y5bphn F ,bpyruNblhlt n5url5,2v. 
hllhpMr1 hnNShiry5,hnnt it ySr5l lStur abl1v O 
5p,nC vr,y5bp bg inhp2 n5prv yb Nrlvbphn5Wr ySr 
ibb2 a5yS tbel n5url5,2v w gbl Nhlyt Mhurv. h 
,bnnr,y5bp bg gbel9n5pr n5url5,2v lr)e5l5pM h g5gyS 
n5prC srnr,y5cr i5in5bMlhNSt4 5p1r6C
0eiC shnr 'ZCG
AJfTXR AJJqxTIC Jcrl 8KK 25y,Srp yrvyr1 
ghlu lr,5Nrv vrnr,yr1 glbu grhyelrv 5p sbeySrlp 
Abepylt Abb2ibb2C 7beyS9ahyrl5pM. ubprt 9 
9vhc5pM lr,5Nrv gbl ghcbl5yr Jn1y5ur sbeySrlp 
obb1v. sbeNvC 7rhyv. lrh1v. :5n1 IhurE hp1 
ue,S ublrC AJfTXR AJJqxTI a5nn 1rn5MSy 
Mbb1 gbb1 nbcrlv rcrltaSrlrC
sNr,5hn Jpnt 'Y9GL
HJfsm 0/FTXs XHm AJ70/mXm JJq Jo 
0/FTX AFRm UB veNrli 411 ,bnbl
NSbybMlhNSv it 5nn sahp bg ySr Trav bl2
byhp5,hn Ihl1rpvC 0nhpyv. lhlr hp1 ,buubp. yShy
ySl5cr 5p1bblv. 5pgbluhy5bp bp rcrlt hvNr,y $g 
Nnhpy ,hlr 5p,ne15pM n5MSy lr)e5lrurpyv. grr15pM 
ahyrl5pM hp1 N5yy5pM. Sba yb gbl,r ie51v. 
uh5pyh5p h yrllhl5eu bl MlrrpSbevr. Mlba 
crM5yhinrv 5p tbel 25y,Srp hp1 uh2r h uh, lhu 
Nnhpy Sbn1rlQ
0eiC hy $6 G8 Jpnt 'YCG
IRJ: xX? R5,Shl1 :C /hpMrl XSr rM5pprl-v 
AbuNnryr xp9Hhlubpt9 a5yS Thyelr suhnn ohlu 
Ie51r9glbu PrMryhinrv hp1 Ilh5p Ilba5pM yb 
/5crvyb,2 ,hlrC Fp 5p15vNrpvhinr Me51r yb Mbb1 
,bepylt n5c5pM. 5y 1rv,l5irv vyrN9it9vyrN ySr genn 
lhpMr bg ghlu5pM Nlh,y5,rv vb yShy tbe ,hp 
n5yrlhnnt Mb bey yb ySr g5rn1. crMryhinr Nnby. 
bl,Shl1. bl ihlp9hp1 irM5p tbel n5gr hpraC xyv 
h11lrvvr1 yb hnn ySr pra hp1 geyelr Sburvyrh1rlv 
aSb nbpM yb lryelp yb ySr ,bepylt a5ySbey rcrl 
Shc5pM irrp ySrlr 5p ySr g5lvy 0nh,r 
0eiC& LKCKK Jpnt YCG
mm/xJs Jo 7JRTxTIE XSr 75pMnr1 rvy5prv 
bg Alb,b15nrv hp1 7rp it Fn5vyh5l IlhShu F 
0ryrl rhl1. bcrl BKK 5ynevC. LU 5p genn ,bnblC XSr 
,lb,b15nr 5v h ,lrhyelr ar vyhp1 Nbvr1 yb 
bp1rup yb bin5yrlhy5bp bl 1r,ht 9 try ar 
rpba v,hl,rnt hptyS5pM hibey 5yC XS5v ibb2 5v ySr 
vyblt bg hp r6ylhbl15phlt v,5rpy5g5, r6Nr15y5bp4 5y 
5v hnvb h ,ShnnrpMr yb h5n bey ,bpcrpy5bphn 51rhv 
hibey ,bpvrlchy5bp. hp1 h ,bn1 nbb2 hy bel bap 
1rvy5p5rv
0eiC hy 'ZZC8K Jpnt 'LZ G
mJTI XHm /JJqnT I/Fss9m6ylhbl1uhlc 
:bl2v bg oh5lt Xhnr F ohpyhvtC m1C "bphyShp 
AbyyC xnnevylhyr1 ySlbeMSbey. 5p,ne15pM hp 890hMr 
oenn Abnbl vr,y5bpC Tbcrnv. sybl5rv. hp1 0brylt 
glbu ySr P5,ybl5hp mlh. ySr l5,Srvy hp1 ubvy 
,eny5chyr1 Nrl5b1 1b ,Sln1lrpCv n5yrlhyelr. hnubvy 
hnn bg aS5,S Shcr irrp bey bg Nl5py gbl uhpt 
trhlvC Fp1. n52r F/xAm FTJ :JTmR/FT. 5y 
vSben1 hNNrhn yb ublr h1enyv ySr ,S5n1lrp 
0eiC hy $14 G8 Jpnt $6 G
XHm HF:q/xTm 7JTsXmR. F MbyS5, :rvyrlpC 
t R5,Shl1 lhey5MhpC F pbcrnC X5urE LGZK 
sryy5pME :rvyrlp JlrMbp 7hM5, AS5n1. h L8 trhl 
bn1 xp15hp M5ln. aSb ahp1rlv 5pyb ySr albpM 
aSblrSbevr nbb25pM gbl ySr l5MSy uhp yb 25nn ySr 
ubpvyrl yShy n5crv 5p ySr 5,r ,hcrv ep1rl ySr 
ihvrurpy bg 75vv Hha2n5prv ,bn1 trnnba pbevr
CCCCCCCCC R5,Shl1 lhey5Mhpv nbpM hah5yr1 pra
abl2 bg g5,y5bp ,bpi5prv a5n1prvv. a5y. utvyrlt
uhyel5yt. vrpvehn5yt 51 vevNrp,r
0eiC hy '8CG8 Jpnt 'LCG
x//fsXRFXmJ Ifxm XJ XHm HJfsms Jo 
F7mRxAF m1 it R5,Shl1 7 hnn5pMrl F 
Hrluhp bl2C Rruhl2hinr 15crlv5yt uhl2 yS5v 
lrM5bp9it9lrM5bp velcrlt bg ,bpyruNblhlt hp1 
ylh15y5bphn SburvC oennt 5nnevylhyr1 a5yS bcrl 2;K 
NSbybMlhNSv. 5p,ne15pM Nnhpv?
0ei hy 'LYCG8 Jl7t 'L BG
XHA PAMHV x/m
XHm HJ/ x/m9quM "hurv Prlv5bp Rr1 /ryyrl m15d
y5bp 0ppyr1 5p nhlMr ,nrhl ytNr ghyr b gpr &7l 'i5,
NrNrl yS5v >15y5bp & ibep1 yh p,7v ybbnr1 5u5yhy5bp 
nrhySrl vNr,5hnnt ghil5,hyr1 gbl 1elhi5n5yt 5p,ne1rv fK9
NrM, 5in5,hn 1
 Ser
1 5u5y5
CCCrne1rv 99a9 
bg oeH9A pg,a h515,rn ,t,nbNr15, 5p1r bWrpv ************* *
Olrn5M5bev hly Nr5pppMv F Abnbl NSbyb &5g ySr 
Hbnt /hp1 yb1ht Nnev 5in5,hn uhNv xnneu5phyr1 
Nlrvrpyhy5bp u5r hp1 ghu5nt lr,bl1 NhMrv. cryyr9Mb7 
r1Mrv. vry 5p l5iibp uhl2rl g   1 LLL h  Jcrl x KK 
OO :S5yr1** 93 Ont, 12 M
NhMrv 
7 h5 3
YUDD XHA sAf/XXfgng Of 0xAFssJ $ Rbnhp1 
orplCrr ZK RF: NSbybv F B fpr 1yr&uMv rNlr1e,r 
c5lyehnnt h5n 0ahhhr-v r65vy5pM v,enNyelr 5p,ne1rv rhlnt

---------------------------------------------------

0hMr UOXHm XFRXFT9FNl5n LY. LGDU
Ahlrrl Tbyrv
The March 29 issue of Time carried an 
article entitled Slim Pickings for the Class 
of 76. Lest the CMU community inter
pret the very dismal forecast in the article 
as being typical of the situation existing 
for all graduates, I feel it is important to 
report the experience of Carnegie-Mellon 
students during the current recruiting per
iod. The Time article refers to a recent re
port released by the College Placement 
Council which asserts that employers are 
expected to make 5% fewer job offers to 
graduates this year than they did in 1975. 
The CPC report revealed the overall vol
ume of job offers to 76 graduates of the 
159 participating colleges and universities 
to be down 16.6%. Thanks to the faithful 
and timely reporting of CMU students, the 
Office of Career Services and Placement is 
able to monitor the flow of job offers to 
students here. Contrary to what appears to 
be a depressed job market if the Time piece 
is accurate, Carnegie-Mellon seniors and 
graduate students have experienced a 28% 
increase in the number of offers they now 
hold as compared with April 1 of 1975. 
Bachelor degree candidates show 21% more 
offers this year while graduate degree hope
fuls have now received 39.6% more offers 
than at this time last year.
There are clear indications the job mar
ket for 1976 graduates is continuing to im
prove and employers who had not planned 
to add to their staff are now beginning to 
search for college graduates in earnest. As 
an added dimension of service, the Office 
of Career Services and Placement is now 
receiving all current job openings listed 
with the Pittsburgh Office of the Pennsyl
vania Bureau of Employment Security. 
The information is,on microfiche and is up
dated several times each week. We have ac
quired a microfiche reader to make this in
formation available, and I encourage CMU 
students and alumni to regard this service 
as an added resource to tap as they ap
proach the job market.
While names of the employers are not 
indicated in these listings, all other perti
nent facts including the nature of the 
work, education and experience require
ments and salary offered is stated. The 
positions are with employers throughout 
the ten county area of Southwestern Penn
sylvania. Interviews for openings in which 
students or alumni are interested can be 
arranged through any local office of the 
BES. The microfiche system is located in 
our offices in room 19, Warner Hall and 
staff members will gladly assist any student 
in making use of the equipment.
In the summer job field, the City of 
Pittsburgh is actively, involved in generating 
summer opportunities for local students. 
Mayor Peter Flaherty and KDKA-TV news
caster Bill Burns will co-host a telethon 
type of program called Job Dial on Satur
day evening, May 8, at 7:00 pm. The 
purpose of the program will be to secure 
summer job pledges from employers 
throughout Southwestern Pennsylvania. 
Students wishing to be considered for sum
mer openings resulting from this program 
should secure an application form from the 
Office of Career Services and Placement, 
complete it and return it to us by May 3rd.
The City Youth Employment Program 
(CYEP) is making summer jobs available 
in Yellowstone National Park to Pittsburgh 
residents 18 years of age or older. CYEP 
will pay roundtrip transporation costs for 
candidates selected. Most of the jobs will 
be dining room, kitchen and lodging help. 
The deadline for applications is April 28. 
Application forms are available in the 
Office of Career Services and Placement.
J. Dennis Ryan 
Director
_______________Career Services & Placement
Ji3r,y5bpv yb Renrv
,bpy5per1 glbu NhMr bpr 
mending that the faculty reject them en
tirely because they would, in effect, allow 
the university to change unilaterally its 
contracts with the faculty members to be 
laid off.
The guidelines give the university pres
ident and the trustees the power to decide 
how many faculty must be fired and which 
departments should be affected. The pres
ident would first convince the trustees to 
declare a formal state of economic strin
gency, then notify the campus, and final
ly discuss the matter wtth a committee 
elected by the faculty. The trustees would 
meet to vote on the presidents plan with 
three faculty observers present.
The particular individuals to be fired 
would be selected by a procedure similar to 
that used for tenure nominations. Depart
ment heads would select individuals in con
sultation with the deans, subject to af
firmation by a faculty committee. Then 
the names would be passed to the two pro
vosts, and to the three faculty observers 
who originally met with the trustees.
Faculty selected for layoff could appear 
before the University Committee on Ten
ure appointments, and after review of their 
testimony, the university president would 
make the final decision. The guidelines sug
gest that victims of the layoff receive one 
years notice and one years severance pay.
Several specific objections to the guide
lines were made in the Kerr dissent and by 
individual faculty members at the March
11 Senate meeting. One objection centers 
on its failure to make any distinction be
tween tenured and non-tenured faculty.
Another complaint is that it gives fac
ulty a smaller role in the early stages of a 
financial emergency than the AAUP guide
lines would. The AAUP document specifies 
that there should be a faculty body which
participates in the decision that a condition 
of financial exigency exists .. . , while the 
proposed CMU guidelines give that decision 
to the president and trustees.
Finally, many faculty members worried 
that the guidelines are too vague in defin
ing just what constitutes stringency. The 
proposal says that stringency exists when
ever expenditures exceed income, when 
there is no prospect that the fiscal crisis 
will end within two years, and when mea
sures such as  invasion of endowment 
funds have been considered.
The report is written so that a one cent 
deficit could be declared as financial strin 
gency, complained Physics Professor Ray 
Sorensen. Schumacher suggested that an 
administration could even create a crisis by 
manipulating accounts within the budget.
Professor Allan Meltzer, chairman of the 
trustee-faculty committee, defended this 
aspect of the report, saying that a numeri
cal formula would be nearly impossible to 
design, since it would have to take into ac
count future variations in the endowment, 
and other unpredictable changes.
The committee which drafted the pro
posal included Meltzer; trustees Fred Foy, 
John C. Warner, and Thomas Fort; and 
faculty members Angel Jordan, Thomas 
Kerr, and A. Fred Sochatoff.Fenves
,bpy5per1 glbu NhMr g5cr 
programs dealing with structural analy
sis ... I wanted to produce a general 
framework for handling these. Its now 
become the grandfather of new programs 
for engineering applications . . . The thing 
that has always fascinated me is how 
clever people are in using my programs in 
ways Id never dream of in a hundred 
years.
STUDENT SENATE 
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION
REASON FOR ANOTHER:
AN APPEAL WAS BROUGHT TO STUDENT SENATE ON THE 
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION RECENTLY HELD. IT WENT BEFORE THE 
APPEALS BOARD AND THE ELECTION WAS OVERRULED ON THE 
GROUNDS OF IMPROPER INFORMING OF ELECTION AND POLL 
HRS.
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS WILL BE HELD
WHEN:
TIME:
PLACES:
THUR., APRIL 22, FRI., APRIL 23 
9 A.M., to 4 P.M.
H&SS - VOTE IN BAKER HALL 
MIS & CIT - VOTE IN DOUGHERTY 
F.A. - VOTE IN C.F.A.
SUPA AMS GSIA - VOTE IN GSIA
All registered undergraduate and graduate students for spring 76 may vote.

---------------------------------------------------

XHm XFRXFTOFNl5n LY. LGDU90hMr D
Views from the Candidates
QUESTIONS: Please answer both ques
tions below
1. The President of Student Government 
is often asked to represent what the 
students think to the administration. 
How are you qualified to answer this 
demand?
2. In the Carnegie Commission Report 
Governance of Higher Education the 
Commission states that it is generally 
sympathetic to greater student partici
pation in those areas of governance 
where they have substantial interest 
and adequate competence, and where 
they will assume responsibility. We 
believe that in such areas students can 
inform the decision-making agencies 
about their experiences and desires, 
give good advice, exercise good judge
ment, and support innovation.
In what areas of governance are stu
dents adequately competent and wil
ling to assume responsibility?
STATEMENT:
Prepare a brief (no more than fifty words) 
statement detailing your qualifications to 
serve as President.
Larry Valery
Question 1
The only means of representing student 
opinion is to know the various opinions of 
the seemingly isolated segments of the
hc51 Rbevvbv
hc51 Rbevvbv
Question 1
It is important to remember that the 
President is also a student and that the 
decisions the administration makes which 
affect the students, also affect the Presi
dent. It is, therefore, easy to see who th 
President would, most likely, be sympathe
tic to. This, however, does not qualify any 
student to represent what all students 
think.>
To be qualified, an individual has to 
have a genuine concern for the students 
and, to a certain extent, must be self-sacri
ficing. I feel I have most recently demon
strated these two characteristics in appeal
ing the Presidential election.
I had been very reluctant to appeal an 
election I had lost, for fear that it would 
appear to be the actions of a sore loser.
student body. To adequately represent 
students, though, is to approach this ideal.
During my chairmanship of the Acade
mic Affairs Committee I remained in touch 
with the various segments of the student 
body, through friends and acquaintances; 
thus I feel I can represent student opinion 
adequately, because I will continue to re
main in touch.
Question 2
Students are adequately competent and 
very willing to take responsibility in areas
0ryrl h,br
Question 1
To represent the students interests, I 
will investigate the pressing issues of the 
University, and articulate recommenda
tions to the administration. Some of the 
issues to be investigated are:
(1) Why were fraternity leases raised 
25%, without increased services 
from housing?
(2) Why arent black fraternities recog
nized by the University?
(3) Why was room-drawing so poorly 
handled and confusing?
(4) Is H&SS being phased out? And if 
so, why?
(5) Why is Student Senate so misman
aged that it cant run an election 
properly?
As president I intend to be forward and 
aggressive with the administration. Only in 
this manner will the interest of the stu
dents be heard. To accomplish this it is
I was tremendously annoyed at the fact 
that the polls were closed at a time sche
duled for voting when I went to vote; when 
I had found out that there were others who 
were similarly hassled, I decided to appeal.
I was concerned with the right to vote all 
students have and dismissed any pride I 
might have, choosing to look like a sore 
loser rather than a hypocrite.
When representing the students to the 
administration, or anyone else, one has to 
think of all the students, not just himself.
Question 2
With a school of as high a caliber at 
CMU there isnt any area of governance 
which could not be student handled for 
lack of competence. Carnegie-Mellon is an 
outstanding university composed of intel
ligent students with diverse interests, so I 
doubt there exists any aspect of govern
ment void of student knowledge or abili
ty.
The willingness, however, of the student 
to assume that responsibility is definitely a 
problem. There is no specific area which 
student interest does not adhere to; how
ever, there are never enough students 
interested to be responsible for each area.
The recent appealing of the presidential 
election is a good example of both student 
competence and willingness. To get the 
appeal, there were individuals who were
/hllt Phnrlt
of Academic Affairs. Clearly, Student 
input in this area has been lacking; due 
primarily to the widespread belief that the 
administration would disregard any aca
demic input coming from students. But 
the administration has heard and acted on 
student input regarding composition cour
ses and self-paced learning, and would 
continue to hear input regarding academics 
under my leadership.
Statement
My qualifications are based on my exabsolutely necessary for the president to 
establish contacts within the administra
tion, and to know which administrators 
make which decisions. Furthermore, the 
president must develop a personal relation
ship with President Cyert.
Anyone who knows me knows that I 
am an outgoing and aggressive person, who 
will vigorously pursue these administrative 
contacts. I have already begun to do so 
since my first victory.
Question 2
Budgeting and tenure are two areas in 
which students should be given a chance to 
participate.
The students at this University pay a 
large enough share of the Universitys 
income, that they should have a say in the 
way it is spent. We desperately need to 
revitalize the facilities at this University. 
The library, athletic, lab and art facilities
0ryrl h,br
are totally inadequate for a University of 
CMUs caliber. The students should have a 
voice in the budgeting so this situation can 
be rectified.
Tenure decisions at CMU, are made at 
three different levels. First the depart
ments, then the colleges, and finally the 
University. Students should participate as 
voting members of the review committees
circulating petitions and soliciting signa
tures. The students they talked to, with 
few exceptions, were not only concerned 
and outraged at the illegalities which 
occurred during the elections, but were, 
as well, interested and helpful in the ap
peal, with some students citing other inci
dents during the election which were 
illegal, or at the very least, highly ques
tionable.
There is, with the students, that know
ledge needed to assume the responsibility; 
its unfortunate, though, that they have to 
be recruited to provide it.
Statement
The President of the Student Govern
ment, as stated in the Constitution, is the 
official representative of the student 
body. What would make anyone more 
qualified to be the representative of a bo
dy, than to be rightfully chosen by that 
body?
That is basically what it comes down to.
All of the four candidates have a know
ledge of Student Government and are 
hopefully running to do some good for the 
students and not just themselves. What I 
feel makes me the better candidate and 
the one to choose is that I have shown the 
students that I will work for them if they 
want me as their President.
perience and interest in student govern
ment.
I have had over a years experience with 
Student Senate, I have also been Academic 
Affairs Chairperson for a year. During that 
time I have worked directly with admini
strators, faculty and trustees on various 
committees; an experience that would 
prove fruitful for a Student Government 
President.
I also feel I have the enthusiasm and 
desire to become an active president; one 
who will provide leadership in Academic 
Affairs.------------------------------------------------------
at each of these levels. With student input, 
the tenure committees will perhaps pay 
more attention to the teaching abilities of 
the faculty members.
Statement
I am qualified to serve as the president 
because I am an aggressive and outgoing 
person with experience in assuming respon
sible positions. As a student senator I 
gained much insight into student govern
ment. I have developed contacts with the 
administration including good relationships 
with Dean Swank and Dean Cox.
These qualifications and my answers to 
the TARTANs questions speak for them
selves. Therefore I dont intend to launch a 
formal campaign for this second election. 
Furthermore, there is no longer any need 
for posters and other campaign graffiti on 
the walls of CMU. I will not use empty pos
ter slogans like The Students Hope. My 
time will be bettes spent establishing admi
nistrative contacts, so I will be a more 
effective president next year.----------------------
WRCT 88 3 FM vvm broadcast an interview with The Candidates at 9:00 pm, Monday, April 19 81 Tuesday April 20.

---------------------------------------------------

0hMr OXHm XFRXFTOFNl5n LY. LGDU
KEY:
Test Begins: A 8:30-11:30 am
B 1:30-4:30 pm 
C 6:00-9:00 pm 
D 8:30-10:30 am 
E 9:30-11:30 ?m 
F 10:30-12:30 pm 
G 1:30-3:30 pm 
H 6:30-8:30 pm
PARANOIA 
REIGNS SUPREME
sfT7JTXfm:mXHfRoRxsFX
Z< F0Rx/
mFsXmRT JRXHJJ_ 
mFsXmRZU
RmFxTIZD
0mRxJZ
oxTF/ZG
m_F7xTFXxJTsYKA VFt
ZYB8
Pi oxTF/ 
J IRFms fmD
 AJ77mTAm7mTXb
BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES
03-121Modern BiologyTBA
03-240Cell BiologyWed28BSCH125
03441Molecular Biology of Microorg.Wed28AMI448
CHEMICAL ENGINEERING
06-101Intro, to Chemical EngineeringMon3BDH2315
06-152Chemical Engineering ITBA
06-201Chemical Engineering IISat1BDH2315
06-202Chemical Engineering IIIWed28ADH2315
06-204Process ThermodynamicsFri30BDH2210
CHEMISTRY
09-104Intro, to Life Science ChemistryThu29ADH2200
09-105Elerfi. Physical Chemical Prin.Thu29BDH2210
09-117Organic Chemistry ITBA
09-132Experimental Tech. in Chem. IITBA
09-142Physical Chemistry "ITBA
09-218Organic Chemistry IISat1ASCH7500
09-532Phys. Chemistry III: Quant. Mech.Thu29ASCH7500
CIVIL ENGINEERING
12-101Intro to Engineering PlanningMon3APH123B
12-102Engineering MeasurementsTBA
12-103Systems Engineering IThu29BPH100
12-211Solid MechanicsMon3ASCH7500
12-215MaterialsFri30BSCH7500
12-325Soil MechanicsThu29ADH2315
12-332Hydraulic EngineeringSat1BSCH7500
12-604Systems Engineering IIWed28BPH123H
12-621Structural Mechanics IIWed28APH123H
12-636Environmental Impact AnalysisThu29BPH123H
12-637Urban Engineering Issues & Prob.Fri30APH123H
12-638Urban Transportation Iss. & Prob.TBA
COMPUTER SCIENCE
15-101Computer AppreciationThu29BSCH5316
15-111Intro, to Computing BTBA
15-311Software Engineering MethodsMon3ADH2315
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
18-100Fund, of Electrical Engr.TBA
18-102Nonlinear & Active CircuitsFri30BDH2315
18-114Electrical Engineering II AFri30ASH212
18-201Field Analysis A,B,CTBA
18-213Signals, Networks & TransformsThu29APH100
18-224Electronic Circuits I A,BWed28ADH2210
CWed28ADH2210
18-234Computer SturcturesFri30ADh2210
18-310Information & Communication ASat1BPH125C
BSat1BPH125D
CSat1BPH126D
18-341Electro-Mechanical Energy Conv.TBA
18-352Spec. Top. Engr. Energy-Tech. Soc.Fri.30HSH206
MATHEMATICS
21-104Fund, of Mathematics IIWed28APH100
21-121Calculus IWed28BPH100
21-122Calculus IIWed28BGYM
21-123Calculus IIISat1BGYM
21-127Intro, to Applied MathematicsSat1ADH2210
21-141Linear AlgebraMon3BPH100
21 -142 Foundations of Analysis
21 -224 Calculus IV
21-235 Mathematical Studies I
21-256 Advanced Calculus II
21-257 Higher Math. Soc. Mgr. Sci. I
21 -259 Diff. Equations & Linear Algebra
21-260 Partial Diff. Equa. & Vec. Anal.
21-274 Modern Algebra II
21 -290 Numerical Methods II
21-301 Combinatorics
21-303 Finite Mathematics
21-371 Func. of Complex Variable
21492 Operations Research
21-493 Partial Diff. Equations
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
24-102
24-112
24-121
24-131
24-141
24-160
24-216
24-223
24-224
24-246
24-249
24-291
Statics of Deformable Solids 
Fluid Mechanics I A,B
Thermodynamics T
Intro, to Materials Engineering
Statics and Dynamics 
Engineering Graphics
Gas Dynamics 
Thermodynamics II 
Thermal Systems Analysis 
Feedback Control Systems 
Dynamics
Engineering Economy
A,B
T
U
V
METALLURGY AND MATERIALS SCIENCE
Materials Science
Transport and Kinetics 
Process Metallurgy 
Physical Metallurgy II 
Special Topics
Prob. & Appi. Statistics I 
Prob. & Appi. Statistics II
Probability & Statistics II 
Stat. Methods of Data Anal. II 
Elem. Applied Probability
A
B
27-131
27-217 
27-322 
27-334 
27-566
STATISTICS
36-211
36-212
36-216 
36-220 
36-375
PHYSICS
33-120 
33-121 
33-122 
33-124 
33-134 
33-436 
33-438 
33442 
33446 
33448
CIT/MIS INTERDISCIPLINARY PROGRAM
39-113 Physics of Musical Sound
Thu
Wed
Wed
Sat
Thu
Wed
Wed
Mon
Sat
Thu
Fri
Wed
29
28
28
1
29
28
28
3
1
29
30 
28
Wed 28 
Thu 29
B
A
A
B
A
B
B
B
B
A
B
B
A
B
SCH 5320 
PH 100 
PH 100 
SCH 5419 
SCH 125 
GYM 
GYM
SCH 5320 
SCH 5320 
SCH 5419 
SCH 5320 
SCH 5403 
SCH 5403 
SCH 5403
Fri
TBA
30ASH206
Thu29CSH125
Mon
TBA
yBSH125
Thu29CSH422
Thu29CSH212
Thu29CPH225C
Thu29BSH220
Thu29ASH224
Wed28ASH422
Wed28CSH206
Sat1BSH224
Mon3BSH224
Sat1A_ DH2315
Sat1ADH2315
Thu29ADHA317
Thu29ADH1112
Wed28ASCH5302
Thu29ASCH4327
Mon3BDH2210
Wed28BDH2315
Wed28BDH2315
Sat1ASH125
Wed28BSCH7500
Thu29ASCH5403
First Year Physics IISat1BSCH5403
Physics I: MechanicsSat1BDH2210
Physics II: Heat, Wave Mot. & Opt.Thu29AGYM
Physics IV: Atomic Phys. & Str. Mt.Sat1BSCH5310
Modern Physics ISat1BSCH5427
Physical Mechanics IIThu29ASCH5310
Intermediate Elec. & Mag. IIWed28ASCH5320
Intro. Stat. PhysicsSat1BSCH7316
Wave MechanicsFri30ASCH7328
Intro. Solid-State PhysicsThu29ASCH5336
Fri 30DH 2315

---------------------------------------------------

XHm XFRXFTOFNl5n LY. LGDU90hMr G
during 
SPRING
FINAL
EXAMS
DESIGN
51-109Design Principles I LectureWed28AMM14
MUSIC
57-152Harmony IAThu29GFA157
BThu29GFA160
CThu29GFA107
57-154Harmony IIAWed28BFA160
BWed28BFA157
57-174History of Music ISat1B *MM103
57-182Ear Training & Sigh-Sing. IThu29FFA157
57-184Ear Training & Sight-Sing IIMon3GFA157
57-204History of Music IIMon3DMM103
57-217ChorusBWed28DFA157
57-256Counterpoint IASat1EFA160
BSat1EFA157
57408Form and AnalysisThu19DFA157
ART
60-130Hist, of Paint, Design & Sculpt.Thu29ADH2210
ADMINISTRATION AND MANAGEMENT SCIENCE
70-121Quant. Controls in Bus.BThu29BDH2315
70-142Math, for Mgt. Sci. IIAFri30APH226A
BFri30APH226B
70-361Foundations of LawSat1APH100
PH125C
70-371Production IAWed28ASCH7500
70481Marketing IIThu29ABH129 A
70491Finance IISat1BBH129 A
ECONOMICS
73-200Economic Growth & Fluct. AMon3ADH2210
BMon3ADH2210
73-250Resource Alloc. Market EconomyTBA
73-360Manpower Econ. & Pol. IssuesTBA
73452Economics & EnvironmentWed28BPH211
73456Money, Interest & InflationMon3APH100
ENGLISH
76-201Biblical Myth. Backg. Eng. LitThu29ABH245
76-204Faith & Doubt: LVHSCWed28BPH126C
76-235Rev. Con. Eng. & Amer. 1640-1776Sat1BBH229E
76-266Mod. in Lit. & Vis. Perf. ArtsSat1BBH245
76-267Explorations in ModernismSat1ABH229B
76-27019th-Century American Lit.TBA
76-300Classical Authors (Aeschylus)Fri30ABH255B
76-321Shakespeare AFri30ABH235B
BFri30ABH235A
TFri30ABH232E
76-34018th-Century AuthorsThu29BBH229E
76-35019th-Century British AuthorsSat1BHL SEM.
76-38020th-Century American AuthorsSat1BPH126C
76401English Novel IIWed28ABH255A
76411Int. Read. Poetry & Short Fiction
AThu29ABH255A
BThu29APH125C
7641620th-Century PoetryWed28BBH255B
76426Modern DramaMon3BPH125C
76-533Poetry Workshop IVThu29ABH255B
76-550Exposition I BMon3ABH255B
76-581Bus. & Prof. Commun. I AFri30BBH232E
BFri30BBH232D
76-585Art of Persuasion: Crit. An. Adv.Wed28ABH245
76-663Psychology and LiteratureWed28BPH126B
HISTORY AND PHILOSOPHY
79-102 Shaping of Western Civ. I BSat1ABH132E
79-103American Civilization A.ion3ABH131
BMon3ABH132F
79-104Emergence of the Urban WorldFri30BPH100
79-105Modernization: Hist. Proc. AFri30ABH129 A
BFri30ABH132E
CFri30ABH132F
DFri30ABH132H
EFri30APH125C
FFri30APH125D
GFri30APH126B
HFri30APH126C
79-29120th Century AmericaFri30ABH129K
79426Hist & Lit. of GermanyWed28BPH219
79490Turn of the Century: 1885-1914Thu29BPH219
79-530Dev. of the Arts in Modern WorldWed28APH219
79-653Introduction to LogicMon3BSCH7500
MODERN LANGUAGES AND LITERATURES
82-101 Elementary FrenchMon3DBH232D
82-102Elementary FrenchMon3GBH232D
82-107 
82-111
Programmed French 
Int. French I: Lit & Cult.
TBA
Thu29DBH232D
82-113
82-122
Int. French II: Grammar 
Elementary German
TBA
Wed28DBH232D
82-123
82-131
Programmed German 
Int. German I: Lit &. Cult.
TBA
Fri30DPH225B
82-136Int. German III: ConversationMon3DBH232E
82-155Int. Spanish III: ConversationFri30DBH232D
82-162
82-171
Elementary Russian 
Elementary Italian
TBA
Thu29GBH232D
82-172
82-174
Elementary Italian 
Intermediate Italian
TBA
Wed28GBH232D
82-181HebrewFri30DBH229B
82-182HebrewThu29DBH132H
82-272Contemporary French TehaterSat1GBH232D
82-292Special Topics: FrenchSat1GBH232E
82-302German Conversation & CompositionFri30DPH125B
82-383Studies in German LiteratureThu29DBH235A
82-385History & Literature of GermanyWed28BPH219
82402Spanish Conversation & CompositionThu29DBH232E
82483Studies in Span. & Latin Amer. Lit.Sat1DBH232D
PSYCHOLOGY AND EDUCATION
85-121 Cognitive Processes in EducationThu29ABH231
85-211
85-212
Cognitive Psychology
Research Meth. in Cognitive Psych.
TBA
Sat1GBH331H
85-222Research Meth. in Child Devel.Wed28ABH231
85-355Abnormal Child PsychologyFri30DBH231
SOCIAL RELATIONS
88-101 Social Analysis I 
88-103 Confict and Cooperation 
88-240 Applications of Oper. Research
TBA
TBA
Mon3ASCH5320

---------------------------------------------------

0hMr LK9XHm XFRXFTOFNl5n LY. LGDU
nrhy5pM vSrrNk 5p ySr Nnhp2 3bevy ,buNry5y5bpC
which he uses to try to knock his opponent 
off the plank. The team that has the most 
people standing (it must be at least three) 
wins.
The plank quickly became very slippery 
and continued to stay slippery despite re
peated wiping. This resulted in many fall
ing even before they engaged in battle. One 
combatant swung, missed, and did a pirou
ette before falling flat on his back. The 
players became rowdier as the battle pro
gressed. Frequently both rivals ended up in 
the muck where they carried on in handto-hand combat. Cannonballs, flips, and 
swan dives were popular among the comBenefit Concert
stand on opposite sides of the mud hole. 
After all five members of one team are in 
the mud, the opposite team is declared the 
winner.
At the last trial, the ATO Derelicts 
Union won on a technicality when last 
years champs, the Roaches, rope touched 
a tree. There was a dispute over this ruling. 
The Roaches bet a case of beer on a re
match but lost again anyway.
In the future there will be more strin
gent rules regarding boundaries to end fur
ther bickering. Hopefully, these events will 
continue in their same spectacular and fil
thy manner for years to come.
Gazorching!
by Patrick Crump
At two oclock on the sunny afternoon 
of Friday, April 9, the annual CMU gazor
ching contest was held on the cut. The con
test was two-fold, one half for accuracy, 
and one for distance, with approximately 
ten teams competing in front of a large 
crowd.
The distance competition was won by 
ATO and the accuracy by Redwings. At 
one point during contest, the crowd was 
attacked from behind by DTD who was 
shooting from across Forbes Ave., and 
everyones attention and balloons were 
naturally turned to them for a few minutes 
until they fled. The contest resumed after 
a few minor diversions but was completed 
with no outbursts of enthusiasm, as the 
teams (by this time a few additional inde
pendent teams arrived) were awaiting the 
free-for-all.
A sudden flurry of flying ballons sig
nalled the beginning of the end, as inno
cent bystanders were pelted from opposing 
directions. This haphazard shooting 
resulted in the immediate alliance of Pi 
Lambda Phi, DTD and the Theta Xi 
team.
The battle raged for two hours with the 
independent (and inexperienced) teams 
taking heavy losses. Many other targets 
were singled out and destroyed, the Pitt
fraternity and the secretaries of Warner 
Hall included. D.U. also attempted to 
shoot from their porch but was promptly 
mutilated for shooting eggs.
The war ended with the depletion of the 
balloon stocks, with most of the spectators 
annoyed and many wet.
by Danni Smith
Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia Fraternity, 
Alpha Omega Chapter will sponsor a bene
fit jazz concert on April 22 in Skibo Ball
room at 7:30 pm. The proceeds will bene
fit the Hunt Library Record Fund.
In addition to the CMU Jazz Band, the 
ensemble will feature bands from East 
Allegheny High School, Fox Chapel High 
School and North Hills High School. These 
bands will receive a small commission from 
the tickets they sell. The CMU Jazz band 
will not sell tickets.
Throughout the school year, Phi Mu 
Alpha has sold refreshments to raise 
money for the record fund. Paul Fox, pres
ident of Phi Mu Alpha commented: We 
have received other contributions from 
many departments. The Hunt Library 
Record Collection lacks the quality it 
should have. Phi Mu Alpha is making 
this one of its services to help better this 
collection. (See events for further details)
Rrh1t. F5uCCCoxRm?
/ T: :
A5c5n mpM5prrl5pM Nlbgrvvblv 5p ySr yeM bg ahl ,buNry5y5bpC XSr rpy5lr yrhu 
ybb2 h ue1 ihyS hv ySrt arlr 1rgrhyr1 it vbur ep1rlMlh1ehyrvCS *
JJ7 JJ7 F7m//x
0hen ASl5vy5hpb. A5c5n mpM5prrl5pM Nlbgrvvbl znrgyj. yrvy5pM ySr ub5vyelr ,bpyrpy bg ySr 
vb5n 1el5pM ySr yeM bg ahl ,buNry5y5bp bp shyel1htC
Orangatangs Win Plank Joust 
ATO Derelicts Win Tug of War
by Joseph Bartnicki petitors, although the audience liked the
header the best. The pillows used in the
The Plank Joust started as some good contest were thrown back and forth. One 
clean fun, but it ended in a muddy mess, girl got a wet, muddy pillow in the face 
Everyone had a good time except those when the person it was aimed at ducked, 
who came dressed in their good clothes. In the final match, the Orangutan beat 
Practically no one walked away without a the ATO Violets to become the champions 
spot on them, and many were drenched of Plank Jousting. To celebrate, the winfrom head to foot. ners got free beer.
In plank jousting there are two teams Immediately following the Plank Joust
composed of five members each. A person was yUg gj-oun(j was made
from each team stands on one of the gQO(j an(j gjjppery for tjris event by the pre
planks placed above a hole filled with mud. * cee(jing one
Each person is equipped with a pillow, The two teams with five members each
IhWbl,S5pM ,buNry5y5bp bp ySr ,eyC

---------------------------------------------------

XHm XFRXFTOFNl5n LYCLGDU90hMr LL
Abp,rly se,,rvvgen rvN5yr 756eN
by Thomas Kendig
On Thursday, the first day of Carnival, 
the Concert Committee presented their 
annual Spring Carnival Concert featuring 
the Good 01 Boys with Frank Wakefield 
plus Morningsong. The Good 01 Boys were 
originally to have Peter Rowan with them 
but due to a mix up between agency and 
band it was discovered late Wednesday 
night that Peter Rowan would not appear. 
The activities board is at present attempt
ing to reach a fair settlement with the in
volved parties. Signs were placed at the 
concert announcing that Peter Rowan 
would not appear and refunds were offer
ed. Frank Wakefield and the Good 01 
Boys drove from Albany on Thursday in 
order to make the concert that evening at 
7:30 pm. The band did not arrive until 
9:15 pm, 30 minutes after Morningsong 
had finished playing. It took an additional 
half hour to get their instruments unpack
ed and the stage set.
Of the original turn out of about 600 
people, only about half that number stayed 
through the long delay to hear the Good 
01 Boys play. There were sound problems 
galore. On a system that worked perfectly 
for Morningsong, there was almost contin
uous feed-back and hum for the Boys. 
There was not a time when all the instrumments could be heard adequately and even
tually the band dumped the sound system, 
moved to the side of the microphones and 
played to the remaining audience without 
a P A system. By this time all the remain
ing people were avid fans of Frank so after
they volunteered to play the next day from 
the Showmobile. They played two 45 min
ute sets the next day.
The Good 01 Boys had Frank Wake
field on mandolin and an accoustic guitar 
banjo, fiddle and bass players. Their reportoire included many traditional country 
bluegrass tunes like the Orarnse Blossom
XSr Ibb1 KL btv
a short break and a chance for Morningssong to remove all their sound equipment 
the Boys returned and played an additional 
set on the gym floor to the remaining 100 
people. To help make up for some of the 
inconveniences they caused on Thursday
Special and Foggy Mountain Breakdown. 
They also played a selection of songs they
wrote themselves. In some they featured 
first the fiddle, then the bass and then 
Frank on the mandolin. Their harmonies 
were mostly of the whining country type.
sir voices were not their strong point. 
The instrumentation was good, Frank can 
play an exciting mandoline and was by far 
the most talented person in the band.
Morningsong was excellant. The band 
formed at Penn State where all of its 
members originally went to college. Their 
act was more professional and much tighter 
than the time I had seen them at Pitt where 
they played warmup for Livingston Tayler. 
The fiddle player is fun to watch because 
of his enthusiasm and the faces he makes. 
His place to shine was during their final 
song, The Orange Blossom Special, a good 
pick up song which unfortunately the 
audience did not respond to very well. 
Their music was more folk oriented than 
the Good 01 Boys and included Ive Just 
Seen a Face, Helplessly Hoping and a 
large selection of their own tunes, most 
of which appear on their albulm listening 
to a Sunrise, produced and made by themelves.
sFm :5pv rv5Mp Fahl1
7blp5pMvbpM
by Lou Conley
This years buggy design judging pro
duced some rather unexpected results. The 
traditional design powerhouses didnt do as 
well as usual. After the preliminary judging 
the six finalists were BTPs SST, BTPs 
825, C.I.A.s Black Magic, PKTs 
Streak, PKTs  Snorpus, and SAEs 
Intrepid.
In the preliminary judging each buggy 
is presented to the judges for ten minutes. 
After the judges have examined each buggy 
they score each one on all of the different 
aspects of design. There are six judges and 
each can score a maximum of 150 points 
for each buggy. The highest and the lowest 
scores are then thrown out and the remain
ing four are totaled for a maximum possi
ble score of 600 points.
After the points judging, the sue highest 
scoring buggies are all reexamined by the 
judges at the same time for a period of 
twenty minutes. Then the judges rank the 
buggies from one to six and the buggy with 
the lowest score wins. In the case of a tie 
the buggy with the higher point total wins
Awards and Dance Under the Big Top
by Q. Eddy
The awards ceremony at 10:30 pm onSaturday, April 10 was a fond congregation 
of fraternities, sororities and other inter
ested people to congratulate the buggy 
winners and to find out the buggy design 
and booth winners on the midway.
In the booth contest there were three 
categories. For the frats, SAE took first 
with their San Fransiscc Booth. ZBT 
took second prize with Pittsburgh, and 
ATO placed third. In sorority competition, 
Kappa Alpha Theta took first prize for 
the New York City Dump and Kappa 
Kappa Gamma won second for Barnacle 
Bills Bait Shop. Spirit won the indepen
dent category with the Salem booth.
Under the Big Top, the SDC dance 
after the awards ceremony, was a good 
wrap up to Spring Carnival 1976. Jack 
Purcell and his band played a medley of 
items ranging form In the Mood, to 
some rather sedate rock to CMU favorites 
like the Carnegie Tech alma mater.
The SDC tent was packed with about 
500 people, some who had come strictly to 
see the awards ceremony and other people 
who had come to dance to Jack Purcell and
his twelve piece band. The crowd of those 
interested in the awards thinned out about 
11:15 to leave about 150 to cut the rug.
Jack Purcell, an alumni of the music 
department, introduced his band to the 
crowd, and pointed out other alumni.
The floor was packed for waltzes, 
polkas and various other dances. It seems 
that everyone had a good time because the 
dance floor was full until the end at 
3:00 Sunday morning.
7blp5pMvbpM
Joan Bothwell, Buggy Chairperson, 
at award ceremony.
Computer
Assisted
Placement
services
 Tm: xTTJPFXxPm 0/FAm7mTX smRPxAm oJR
 Fvvb,5hyr rMlrr Ilh1ehyrv
 h,,hnhelrhyr rMlrr Ilh1ehyrv
 F1chp,r1 rMlrr Ilh1ehyrv
 RmIxsXRFXxJT omm Jo oxPm z'8CKKj J//FRs AJPmRs 
JfR mTXxRm AF0s smRPxAm AJsXC TJ JXHmR AHFRIms
DO NOT SEND MONEY AT THIS TIME
0/mFsm smT oRmm AF0s RJAHfRm w RmIxsXRFXxJT oJR7 XJE
1NAME
1
1ADDRESS
1
17IP
1
1DEGREE ? ASSOCIATE? BA/BS ? MA/MS [ PhD/ED
1
1MAJOR FIELD
I
A NON PROFIT PUBLIC SERVICE ORGANIZATION
mfAFXxJTF/ ssXm7s RmsmFRAH xTsXxXfXm 
LKKK RxA IF77F RxPm 9 0xXXsfRIH. 0mTTs/PFTxF L8ZY
Wabblt

---------------------------------------------------

0hMr LZ9XHm XFRXFTOFNl5n LY.LGDU
Design
Alter the points judging PKTs Snorpus 
was in the lead with 490 points followed 
by PKTs Streak with 482, SAEs In
trepid with 470, BTPs 825 with 469, 
C.I.A.s Black Magic with 450, and 
BTPs SST with 448. After the final 
judging Intrepid and Black Magic were 
tied for first followed by Streak, Snor
pus, SST, and 825. Since SAEs 
Intrepid had more points than the 
C.I.A.s Black Magic, it was awarded 
the first place, Black Magic second place, 
and PKTs Streak was awarded third 
place in the design competition.
The design judges this year were: 
Joseph Ballay, head of the CMU design de
partment; Scottie Cousins, a professional 
engineer; Conrad Hilpert, mechanical engi
neering professor at CMU; Ed Paris, profes
sional engineer; Peter Ryckman, industrial 
designer; and Alvin Weinstein, mechanical 
engineering professor at CMU.
DESIGN RESULTS
POINTS TOTALS
OrganizationBuggyPoints
PKTSnorpus490
PKTStreak482
SAEIntrepid470
BTP825469
C.I.A.Black Magic450
BTPSST448
FringeFlying Buttress433
SNHornet422
KSRed Barron406
DTDDelta Queen401
ZBTMountain Oyster390
PLPUntitled No. 1369
TXXiclone363
SDCHawk345
DUPhoenix335
PKAShark II324
ATOGander290
SATURDAYS RACES
ALUMNI TIMES
BuggyHeatLaneTime
1. PKA312:30.2
2. PKT212:31.7
3. KS332:42.0
4. ATO132:43.8
5. SAE222:45.1
6. BTP232:45.2
7. ZBT122:58.9
FINALS TIMES
1. PKAA 632:23.3
2. BTPA 622:24.6
3. ATOA 522:25.0
4. PKTA 612:26.5
5. SN432:26.7
6. Fringe 512:28.6
7. PKAB 532:30.3
CIAs buggy 
driven by Ann 
Karcher
OFFICIAL RESULTS10 PKT B6 12:34.0
FRIDAYS RACES11 DTD7 12:34.9
12.ZBT8 22:36.2
PRELIMINARY TIMES13.SAE B1 12:44.8
14.C.I.A. B232:55.8
BuggyHeatLaneTime15.ATO B2 32:55.8
PKA A16 .SDC B3 13:05.2
17.KS7 23:10.7
BuggyHeatLaneTime18.DU5 13:14.9
1. PKA A732:23.919.PLP3 23:17.4
2. ATO A422:24.9
3. BTP A532:25.3SN6 32:27.9
4. PKA B522:26.3Fouled Granted rerun
5. PKT A812:28.1TX1 23:03.3
6. Fringe432:30.7Disqualified- Failed Brake Test
7. C.I.A. A832:30.9SDC A6 23:34.1
8. BTP B332:32.1Disqualified Fouled SNand Failed
9. SAE A222:32.9Brake Test
ZBTs second place booth, Las Vegas
Fss:mm"fTs  m_XmR  JRX AFR/XJT & FRmXo3F0s
Our~O
Ooz
u
discountOn All Regular Merchandise 
:xXH 0RmsmTXFXxJT Jo sXfmTX JR oFAf/X xCC
shoes
5850 FORBES AVE. SQUIRREL HILL
7FsXmRAHFRIm FTqF7mRxAFROPEN 10-9
FREE PARKING
 0RJ qmsHmR7FT :JRqsHJms  mCXC :RxIHX

---------------------------------------------------

XHm XFRXFTOFNl5n LY. LGDU90hMr LY
obl ySr LGDU9DD h,h1ru5, trhl 
hnn ep1rlMlh1ehyr vye1rpyv lrMhl1nrvv bg 
trhl hlr rn5M5inr yb hNNnt gbl h 
hv5, Ilhpy zmJIj glbu ySr 
or1rlhn IbcrlpurpyC
It is important to note that those 
students who have heretofore been 
prohibited from 3plying because they 
started their post-secondary education 
before April 1,1973 are now eligible
to apply.
FNNn5,hy5bpv hlr hch5nhinr hy ySr 
o5php,5hn F51 Jgg5,r hp1 ySrt vSben1 ir 
veiu5yyr1 it 7ht L.LGDU gbl y5urnt
,bpv51rlhy5bpC
Arts and Crafts Festival, the biggest ever at Carnival
Special thanks to the three 
Ws in the darkroom.
SAEs first place booth, San Fransisco
Johnston

---------------------------------------------------

0htr LBOXHm XFRXFT9FNl5n LYC LGDU
Fy ySr sSbaubi5nr
by Carol Green
If you kept an eye on the Showmobile 
at Spring Carnival, I hope you caught some 
of the brighter moments of entertainment. 
J. J. Cole and the Creative Dance Ensemble 
-The Utopian Dancers was one perfor
mance worth seeing.
The Ensemble consists of J. J. Cole and 
Helen Shute, both Drama majors, Cham
pagne Moore, who is studying Economics 
and AMS, Robin Warr, a Painting and Illus
tration major, and Renee Wells, who is in 
Modern Languages. Rosco Gilliam and 
Shango Amin, of the Drama Department, 
are also members of the troupe but didnt
' 11 urn
75ur 5p ySr :Srllryy RbbuC
appear in the Saturday performance. The 
ages of the company members range from 
18 to 21. They formed the ensemble last 
January and are the only such dance group 
on campus. Most of the performers have 
been dancing a year, and yet they show re
markable skill and control for the relatively 
short amount of time they had to prepare.
vAfricano, the first number, done with 
J. J., Renee, and Robin, quickly drew a 
large crowd. Ignoring the chill of the even
ing air, the dancers leapt and twirled beau
tifully and individualized the number with 
some original humor.
Sunday Sister Jones gave Champagne 
Moore an opportunity to display her grace 
. and agility in an interpretation of the mu: sic.
i Helen Shute captured audience atten
tion with her rendition of You and Me 
Against the World. Shute put emotion into 
her steps, creating a personal experience 
rather than making mechanical motions. 
This number was my personal favorite.
Tornado, from the musical The Wiz, 
was a solo effort of J. J. Cole. Mr. Cole 
danced well, but I think the number would 
have been improved with more dancers. 
The structure of the music and the way it 
builds .require more than one dancer for 
the number to make its full impact. It is 
a difficult feat for one dancer to do alone.
/ Love the Lord, Heard My Cry, and 
Someday Well be Free had some difficul
ties in the unison parts of the show. How
ever, it was far from being horrendous and 
was certainly more than I would expect 
from an ensemble that had been together 
only four months.
The finale of the show was Peck Your 
Neck, which was enjoyable for both the 
audience and the dancers. The performers 
struts and the upbeat music took the cold
ness out of the night air. The company 
parted in good spirits, r~ J the spectators.
rr* ,fw
O if
RStySu q5pMv Nrlgblu5pM 1el5pM sNl5pM Ahlp5chn bp XSelv1htC
The Utopian Dancers showed an unex
pected professionalism in their manner on
stage, for such a new act. As they try to 
establish their reputation, we will probably
be seeing more of this group on campus. 
J. J. Cole hopes to expand the company to 
twelve dancers next year, which should 
make for a well-rounded company.
:burpv Abnnr,y5cr Nrlgblu5pM ol51ht p5MSyC
EXTRAORDINARY TENNIS FOR THE ORDI
NARY PLAYER. By Dr. Simon Ramo. A noted 
scientist shows how to play amateur tennis to 
win, without prolonged practice or excessive 
training. 5V* x 8V.". Jllustrated. 192 pages. 
LJ 1970 
$1.50
The Offical Scrabble Players Handbook
Created by SCRABBLE CROSSWORD GAME 
PLAYERS, INC.
134 photographs and diagrams 
$4.95
This is the one and only official Scrabble 
Crossword Gime reference source, published in 
conjuction with Scrabble Players, Inc. Previously 
available only to members of Scrabble Players, 
this handbook is written for all levels of players 
from the beginner right up to the expert.
The Offical Scrabble Players Handbook will 
help you improve your game by showing you the 
best tactics to use for high scoring plays; how to 
use the blanks; what to do with a poor rack; how 
to use the high-valued tiles effectively-; defensive 
techniques; passing; bluffing; and much more.
FUN WITH TERRARIUM GARDENING. By
Virginie and George A. Elbert. Clear Instructions 
and step-by-step photographs for all types of 
terrariums for the home. 6V2" x 11". 96 pages. 
Bibliography. Index. Crowns Arts and Crafts 
Series. 1973 
$3.50
BEGINNING BACKGAMMON A New and Plea
surable Method Of Learning By Playing Against 
The Master
229 diagrams 
$4.00
Beginning Backgammon puts It all togetherthe 
basic Principles, strategies^ and lots of sound ad
vice, including 229 explanatory diagrams, rules of 
Play and a glossary of terms.
Tim Holland is widely hailed as the worlds 
leading player of backgammon. He has won more 
major tournaments and holds more major titles 
than any other backgammon player. (
The Illuminated Declaration of Independence
Written by THOMAS JEFFERSON 
Penned by SHERMAN E. NOTESTINE in 1905 
36 pages in full color, plus black-and-white illus
trations 
paper $5.95
thirty-five pages of original lettering styles, bor
ders, and illuminations
In addition to Notestines designs  faithful
ly reproduced here in five colors (including gold) 
the volume contains an introduction by noted 
historian Henry Steele Commager and a variety 
of photographs and reproductions, such as Jeffer
sons original manuscript of the Declaration, Paul 
Reveres engravings, portraits of the signers and 
Illustrations by Howard Pyle and Maxfield Par
rish.
10% OFF SALE
XSr xlbp Jp bb2 tf
MftTIONAl. LAKMOK OOK
tsbu rghr,he K& J * 4i tMiM **** *****
or* Wan Y i0* <***t irvafct ver &*&*reO-nn y q
xy 7n! c! n 5 x(L LL
AmcricanArtist0S&
<mW.
emu bcckstcre
(N BAKER HALL
GinQiati] ^ratlin
TETKvl
*\
irfri mum amaina
_l
mn
* I    ftonpx    bpr
TH
Pi
jook ou po -JJ
THE INDOOR LIGHT GARDENING BOOK
$5.95
A new paperback edition of a complete, up-todate, and practical guide to indoor gardening that 
shows how anyone can enjoy flowers all year 
round. It tells which flowers grow well under 
lights, how to grow them, what equipment is 
needed, and where to buy It. All aspects of culti| vation related to indoor light are treated. There 
are extensive descriptions of suitable plants and 
what can be expected of each. Clear how-to" 
photographs, line drawings, charts, and graphs 
reinforce the text and show how simple and en
joyable indoor gardening can be.
CREATING MODERN FURNITURE Trends, 
Techniques, Appreciation ,
by DONA Z. and MELVIN MEILACH 
580 photographs, 20 color plates 
, $5.95
Dona and Melvin Meilach do not limit them
selves to simple functional pieces; they have re
searched furniture making from its sculptural 
forms in Greece and Egypt through to presentday machine-engineered furniture.
They separate furniture according to mater
ials: furniture made from logs, furniture from 
found materials, fiber furniture, rubber tube 
furniture, fiberglass and molded plastic furniture, 
bent chrome, and even chairs made from paper 
and cardboard. They discuss unusual styles in 
furniture, including the modern fantasy trend 
and the use of cubes and other free forms. Draw
ing from the Greek, Egyptian, African, Haitian, 
and Oriental, the book is a fascinating study of 
all types of furniture making and how to do It 
in step-by-step photographs.
The Complete Adventures and Memoirs of Sher
lock Holmes
187 illustrations 
$3.95
Here is Sherlock Holmes in a facsimile of his 
original setting: the pages of The Strand maga
zine. All the original illustrations by Sidney 
Paget, with their clairvoyant resemblance to Basil 
Rathbone an Nigel Bruce, are here too. A Sherlockians delight and a great value.
FUN WITH GROWING HERBS INDOORS.
How to grow herbs from cuttings or seed, under 
lights or in a window. Step by step photographs; 
ways to dry and store herbs. 6>/*" x 11. 96 
pages. 171 photographs, 20 color plates. Index. 
Suppliers list. 1974 
$4.95
NATIONAL LAMPOON ART POSTER BOOK
The NATIONAL LAMPOON ART POSTER 
BOOK is the most elegant Lampoon product ever 
produced. Twenty-six (11" x 16") original mas
terpieces of art, including "Van Gogh with Bana
na," "The Mona Gorilla," The Floor of the Sistine Chapel," and 23 more. . . all printed in full 
color on fine, heavy paper. All twenty-six posters 
are easy to remove and suitable for framing. 
$5.95

---------------------------------------------------

XHm XFRXFTOFNl5n ?Y LGDU90h)r L8
MEANWHILE,BACK AT SHERWOOD FOREST
by C.R. Childs
Robin and Marian is a somewhat maud
lin, but ingratiating film fantasy. In this 
remake of the often repeated story, we 
find Robin Hood, that legendary outlaw 
leader of Plantagenet England, twenty 
years after the playful cavorting in Sher
wood Forest which we know him for. He 
and Little John have been assisting Richard 
the Lionhearted in waging war on the 
Crusades and upon the death of Richard, 
they return to Sherwood Forest. Back in 
Nottingham country, they are reunited 
with their old cohorts Will Scarlett and 
Friar Tuck; both of whom are still living
srhp Abpprlt hp1 Fe1lrt HrNielp Nnr1Mr 
ySr5l nbcr hv Rbi5p hp1 7hl5hpC
off the fruits of the land and comfortably 
surviving through the art of conning. When 
asked what they do for a living, Friar Tuck 
replies, I take confessions while he takes 
the horse.
So far, the plot is persuasive enough. 
Now comes the pursuit of Robinss long 
lost love interest. Enter Maid Marian. 
Maid Marian, complete with scarred wrists 
as the result of a suicide attempt soon after 
Robin left her twenty years ago, has 
become a nun. The implications of such a 
plot device seem disastrous, but Richard 
Lesters skillful direction handles the given 
situation remarkably well.
Sister Maid Marian, although not anwalls, ( and for the now over forty Robin 
and Little John, these are no easy tasks).
It is also a difficult task to work this 
awkward theme into a manageable script. 
James Goldman, remembered for his 
screenplay The Lion in Winter, tries, 
but falls short. His forte seems to be in 
dealing with the blood, the lust and the 
rhetoric of this period in history. The 
blood and the lust he disseminates prolifically. He falls down on supplying the rhe
toric.
We would like to believe that Goldman 
isnt solely responsible for the storys 
shortcomings. Most of the holes lie in the 
development of the love interest, the shod
dy characterizations of the lesser characters 
and the reasons he gives his characters for 
operating out of their convictions. Gold
man must be praised for pumping di
mension into the usually flat Maid Marian, 
thus making her a dynamic and vivacious 
woman. But we are still so unclear about 
numerous events and characters. His Friar 
Tuck and Will Scarlett can by no stretch 
of a generous imagination be mistaken for 
full characters. There is a charming study 
of these two at the first, but from there on 
in we see them only as extras on the scene 
to hold the horses.
What the film lacks in scripting, it 
makes up for in production. There are very 
few flaws in this area, mostly the result 
of employing the same old, hackneyed and 
time-dishonored technical devices we have 
all grown to loathe. It is too bad that these 
tiresome techniques are continually al
lowed to tarnish otherwise polished films. 
One of the more glaring errors is the 
Machiavellian scoring by John Barry, which 
insists on raping every potentially poignant 
moment with full string symphonies. The 
sooner movie composers learn the role of 
economy in art, the better for all of us.
David Watkins daring photography is 
as effective as it is impressive, but it is 
not consistently so. He does manage to 
spare us the picture postcard treatment 
of Spain, (where the movie was filmed), 
but he all too occasionally relies on sure
fire but over-worked technical tricks. Most 
memorable here is the laboriously long, 
souf-searching zoom shot when Robin
7h51 7hl5hp hp1 /5yynr "bSp SrnN h abep1r1 Rbi5p Hbb1 glbu ySr ihyynrg5rn1C
xious to play her spirited role as lover upon 
Robins homecoming, is slowly wooed 
back into Robins arms. She is again en
chanted by his undaunting gallantry 
toward women (especially nuns) in an age 
when women were treated inhumanly. 
Robins rescue of Marian revives the old 
romance, but also prompts the ultimate 
confrontation between himself and the 
Sheriff of Nottingham. The peasants, 
suffering mightily at the hands of the new 
King John, flock to Robins support in his 
campaign against the establishment. The 
old team is at it again: shooting arrows up 
the enemies nostrils and scaling castle
admits to his past loyalty to the crown. 
This device has been used for every con
temporary film from Last Tango In Paris 
to Jaws and has been exhausted. John 
Victor Smiths editing successfully comple
ments Watkins photography, but he also 
tends to question our artistic perceptive
ness. He gives us five or six establishing 
shots of every available spring twig and 
moss covered tree stump, making certain 
we dont forget we are in Sherwood Forest.
The major responsibility in salvaging the 
script rests on the actors and their director 
and it is only here that we see the films 
virtues exceeding its shortcomings. Sean
Connerys efforts in breaking his James 
Bond image get stronger with each film 
he makes. His performance in the title role 
of Robin Hood is certainly a major break 
from his role of Agent 007. Connery seems 
more in his element among the classics.
Audrey Hepburn as Maid Marian is 
excellent. Of course, she is assisted by 
those inexplicable internal layers of passion 
so few actresses possess. Her talent enables 
her to give substance to a role that has
until the end where everything and every
one drowns in a warm bath of emotions. 
Here writer Goldman makes an attempt to 
raise the total work into the realm of 
poetry. This only helps to confirm that the 
film is least successful when it tries for 
pathos. This provides the emotional 
members of the audience with a catharsis 
while the rest of us must endure all the 
tugging our hearts can stand. This ending 
also serves to diminish any ideas HollyRobin Hood learns that Maid Marion has been the abbess of a priory while he has been fighting 
in the Crusades.
usually been played by dizzy ingenues. In 
the more than a dozen films made about 
Robin Hood since 1909, there has not been 
a memorable Maid Marian. Perhaps this will 
be the first. Nicol Williamson, Robert Shaw 
and Richard Harris all give strong perfor
mances as they have in the past.
It is quite evident that director Richard 
Lester spent most of his time preventing 
the script from sinking. He succeeds up
wood may have about producing a film 
dealing with Robin Hood at age eighty 
fighting off the Kings men with his walker.
Despite the frailties in text and the 
few deficiencies in production, this film 
is worth seeing. Robin and Marian thrives 
on its superior quality of acting, which is 
reason enough to swallow your literary 
descretion for one evening in front of the 
big screen.CHESS CORNER
by Joseph Bartnicki
The Russian chess masters have domina
ted the field of chess for years. It is their 
favorite national pastime. In 1966 there 
were 3,540,000 registered chess players. 
The Moscow University even introduced, in 
1965, a course teaching chess history and 
theory. The lectures were gven by such 
masters as Tal, Petrosian, Korchnoi, Bronstein, and Kotov. From 1948 until 1972, 
all the world champions have been Russian. 
It started with Mikhail Botvinnik and end
ed when Bobby Fischer at Boris Spassky.
Botvinnik, who felt impaired by the ci
gar smoke during a match, had it blown in 
his face for up to five hours at a time. Ap
parently it worked, because he went on to 
win the world championship three times.
Here Botvinnik beats another of the 
great Russian chess masters.
W-BotvinnikB-Keres 
The Hague, 1948
1 P-Q4N-KB3
2 P-QB4P-K3
3 N-QB3B-N5
4 P-K30-0
5 P-QR3BxNch
6 PxBR-Kl
7 N-K2P-K4
8 N-N3P-Q3
9 B-K2QN-Q2
10 0-0P-B4
11 P-B3BPxP
12 BPxPN-N3
13 B-N2PxP
14P-K4!prevents 14 .. .
14. . .B-K3
15R-B1R-K2
16 QxP0-B2
17P-B5!PxP
18 RxP Q-B5
19B-B1! Q-Nl the only other
space available for blacks queen is KR5, 
but then white would play B-KN5, leav
ing the queen with nowhere to run.
20 R-KN5 threatens 21 QxN(B6)
20 . . . QN-02
21 RxPch KxR
22 N-R5ch K-N3
A) if 22 ... , K-Rl; 23
NxN, Q-K4; 24 B-N2 
wins or 23 , NxN; 24
QxNch, K-Nl; 25 B-R6 
wins.
B) if 22 ... , K-Nl, 23 
NxNch, NxN; 24 QxN, 
Q-KB1; 25 B-KR6 wins.
C) if 22 ... , K-Bl; 23 
NxN, NxN; 24 QxN, 
K-Kl; 25 B N5ch, K-QI; 
26 R-Qlch wins or 23 
. . . , Q-K4; 24 B-KR6 
mate.
23Q-K3 resigns. There is no stopping the 
mote at N5 or R6.
Problem: White to play and mate in two
PQ4
ajeiu 9N-fl Z 0X>I iM^OWjos

---------------------------------------------------

0hMr LCU9XHm XFRXFTOFNl5n LY. LGDU
The Incomparable Ella Fitzgerald ap
pears in Heinz Hall for one performance on 
Monday evening, April 26 at 8:30 pm. 
Featured with her will be Pittsburgh-born 
jazz trumpet artist Roy Eldridge and the 
Tommy Flanagan Trio. Sponsored by the 
D.T. Watson Home for Crippled Children, 
this appearance marks the first in Heinz 
Hall for Ella.
The astounding vocal style of Ella Fitz
gerald, already a legend, dfis classifica
tion. She was named Best Female Vocalist 
in both the jazz and pooular categories
mnnh o5yWMrlhn1 a5nn hNNNhhl 5p Hr5pW Hhnn bp 
FNl5n ZUC
for 20 consecutive years by Downbeat 
Magazine and other publications.
Singing with the big bands of Chick 
Webb, Duke Ellington and Count Basie, 
Ella rose to stardom in the 30s, 40s and 
50s. As headliner for the Jazz at the Phil
harmonic series in New Yorks Carnegie 
Hall and around the world since its incep
tion in the 1940s and now, after world 
tours and appearances with symphony
orchestras, receives standing ovations 
whenever she walks on stage.
Tickets for this concert by Ella Fitz
gerald are available at the Heinz Hall box 
office, or by contacting the D.T. Watson 
Home for Crippled Children at (412) 
741-9500.
Phi Mu Alpha will present a Benefit Jazz 
Concert April 22, 1976 at 7:30 pm in the 
CMU Skibo Ballroom. The concert features 
the jazz ensembles of East Allegheny High 
School, Fox Chapel High School, North 
Hills High School, and Carnegie-Mellon 
University. All proceeds to benefit Hunt 
Library Record Fund. Tickets are $2.00 
Adult, $1.00 Student and are available at 
the Skibo Information Desk.
The brilliant young conductor, Michael 
Tilson Thomas, Koussevitsky Prize winner, 
will make his conducting debut with the 
Pittsburgh Symphony in an all-orchestral 
series Friday, April 16 at 8:30 pm, Satur
day, April 17 at 8 pm and Sunday, April
18 at 3 pm.
Mr. Tilson Thomas, currently Music 
Director of the Buffalo Philharmonic and 
Director of the New York Philharmonic 
Young Peoples Concerts, will conduct the 
complete version of Stravinskys 
Petrouchka here, also Dvoraks Sym
phony No. 8 in G Major, Opus 88.
Born in Hollywood in 1944, Michael 
Tilson Thomas began his musical studies 
at age 10 and enrolled in the University of 
Southern California in 1962, studying with 
Ingolf Dahl and pianist John Crown. Upon 
graduation he was awarded the Alumni 
Prize as outstanding student of his class. 
During his college years he was pianist for 
Gregor Piatagorskys master classes for 
cello and also accompanied Jascha Heifetz.
At this time Tilson Thomas went to 
Bayreuth to study the operas of Wagner in 
a course given by the composers grand
daughter, Friedelind Wagner. An orchestra
coach for the Bayreuth Festival fell ill and 
Tilson Thomas was asked to assist in the 
preparation of Parsifal which Pierre 
Boulez was conducting for the first time. 
Subsequently, Tilson Thomas assisted 
Boulez at the Ojai Festival for two sumPittsburgh Artists, Inc. Gallery presents 
a juried show of member artists in the gal
lery at 4535 Forbes Avenue, in Oakland. 
The show opens on Friday evening, April 
2nd with a private preview and runs 
through the entire month of April. On disc
0
<)
75,Shrn X5nvbp XSbuhv a5nn ,bp1e,y ySr 05yyvielMS stuNSbpt FNl5/ LU hp1 LDC
mers and in 1972 became director there.
Tilson Thomass career took a major 
step in 1968 and 1969. He was awarded 
the Koussevitsky Prize when he conducted 
at the Berkshire Music Festival at Tanglewood, and returned there to assist Erich 
Leinsdorf in the preparation of Wozzeck. In the fall of 1969 he was appointed 
Assistant Conductor of the Boston Sym
phony, becoming Associate Conductor 
the following year. In 1972, he was named 
Principal Guest Conductor of the Boston 
Symphony, a post he held until September,
1974.
Most employers think twice about hiring people with criminal records.
Phone fraud will result in a criminal record.
Think twice.
Bell of Pennsylvania
play will be selected paintings, sculpture, 
drawings and prints of member artists. 
Jurors for the show will be John Winberg 
from the Art Institute of Pittsburgh and 
Ron Bennett of the Sculpture Department 
at Carnegie-Mellon University.
The show is open to the public Tuesday 
through Saturday, 1 lam to 6 pm.
The Museum of Art, Carnegie Institute 
will present an exhibition of sculpture by 
Marjorie Firsching Shipe, Pittsburgh artist, 
opening April 9 in the Entrance Gallery.
Marjorie Firsching Shipe has a Masters 
of Education from the University of Pitts
burgh and a certificate from the Ecole 
Americaine des Beaux Arts Fontainebleau 
in France. She has designed stained glass at 
Emil Frei Studios of St. Louis, Missouri.
The exhibition, which has been made 
possible in part by a matching grant from 
the Pennsylvania Council on the Arts, will 
continue through May 23 and may be 
viewed during regular Museum hours: Tues
day through Saturday from 10:00 am until 
5:00 pm and Sunday from 1:00 until 6:00 
pm. The Museum is closed on Monday.
Camelot Productions will complete its 
1975-76 musical comedy season with 
FIDDLER ON THE ROOF, scheduled to 
run Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays, April 
30 through May 30.
Based on the stories of Sholem Aleichem, FIDDLER holds the record as the 
longest-running Broadway show in history 
(3,242 performances). The book is by 
Joseph Stein, with music by Jerry Bock 
and lyrics by Sheldon Harnick.
Camelots production will be directed 
by Jerry Comunale, Jr., with choreography 
by Leonard Weitershausen of the Pitts
burgh Ballet Company and musical direc
tion by Jim Agnew.
Cast in leading roles are G. Fred Thickey as Tevye, Eleanor Glockner as Golda 
and Michele Rakiecz as Yente.
Performances will be held Fridays and 
Saturdays at 8:30 pm and Sundays at 
7:30 pm at the Plaza Theatre, 4765 Liber
ty Avenue (next to West Penn Hospital).
Reservations may be obtained by calling 
Camelot Productions at 481-6406.
FREE ROOM & BOARD JUNE 1st
In exchange for kidsitting and kit
chen help, your own large a/c pvt. 
apt., good meals, flexible hours, 
interesting family. Sq. Hill - 422- 9607.

---------------------------------------------------

alesfcf
XHm XFRXFTOFNl5n LY.LGDU90hMr LD
:St F e,2Q
by John Vorhaus
The next time our beloved, bumbling president fum
bles and stumbles his way into your home on the t-double e-v, make it a point to watch. Close examination of 
our pixyish prexy will reveal his tendency to thrust out 
his upper lip when he speaks. He looks, in short, like a 
duck.
Now Mr. Ford, in typical inept fashion, has failed to 
exploit this natural resemblance to Americas favorite
waterfowl. Were he a shrewd politician, rather than a 
flubdub from Grand Rapids, he could work this similar
ity to his advantage. And were he to do so, the upcom
ing election would surely be his. Its easy as walking and 
chewing gum...
First, its clear that many voters are threatened by 
politicians. Barry Goldwater got bombed in 1964 be
cause his hawkish stance (theres our bird again) fired 
fear into American hearts like so many ICBMs. Similarly, 
George McGovern, who resembles not a bird but rather 
an animal in the donkey family, kept the voters home in 
droves. Both of these figures threatened the voters. 
But who can fear a duck? How many police states have 
been started by ducks? Nuclear wars? Joe and Sybil
elMrr rl :blvS5N 5p 
ZKyS Arpyelt Furl5,h
by Mark Aksoy
Upon delving into the cultural history of pre-21st 
century America, no scholar can avoid the near-rampant 
polytheism which characterized the religious ethos of 
this period. Consider the numerous metabolic cults 
based on the adoration of the hamburger. Burger wor
ship originated in the early 1950s with the appearance 
of numerous stands or temples often reached through 
the sacred rite of cruising. Groups of young burgerpilgrims in primitive vehicles would drive aimlessly through 
the center of small towns. The eventual sighting of a 
temple was then followed by the purchase, adoration, 
and consumption of sacred burger symbols, sometimes 
served by female acolytes dressed in cowgirl costumes. 
Heresies such as the cheeseburger and use of catsup (a 
blood surrogate) were widespread along with the con
sumption of phallic symbols as practiced by the satanic 
cult of the Hot Dog (Dog is God spelt backwards).
In circa 1965 AD., burger religion underwent a ren
aissance with the lightning-like rise of MacDonald. Exca
vations have uncovered MacDonald temples spanning the 
continent with their enigmatic yellow arches and numer
ical markings. Great finds in carbonized fries and doubledeckers have been made at such sites, and it is now pret
ty certain that a man named Ronald MacDonald or the 
Burger King had, by the mid 60s, established an organ
ized following through his missionary work. Ronald held 
that the souls of all humanity could be saved through re
peated creation and gastronomic destruction of the Big 
Mac. Centuries-old videotape fragments show Americans
Incident at
Praterstern
by Michael Baurer
The Praterstern in Vienna is a train station at the 
north end of town. The elevated trains stop there at 
eight minute intervals, and connections are made be
tween trolley lines on ground level. The trolleys pull into 
a kind of arcade which lies beneath the elevated tracks, 
and which houses a number of fast-food (Wurst) stands, 
as well as shops of varying kinds: a florist, a bakery, a 
movie theater, a record store, and two or three cafes.
An old wino stood in front of one of these cafes 
on this particular evening. Across the tracks, a man was 
shouting to a crowd of onlookers about a Jesus rally 
that would be taking place a few hours thence. People 
milled about on both sides of the tracks, waiting for 
their transportation or grabbing a bite to eat. I too 
stood, occasionally watching the speaker (when a trol
ley wasnt obscuring my view) or watching the people 
watching the speaker. Some jeered at him; others laugh
ed and moved on.
I had walked down to get a better view of what was 
happening on the other side of the tracks and had come 
to the cafe where the wino was standing. He was big and 
burly, and he wore a workmans suit of worn dark wool. 
His pants were held in place by a rope, and his jacket 
had large patches over the elbows. An old lady emerged 
from the cafe. For no apparent reason, he kicked her in 
the ass. She only looked back at him angrily and hurried 
into a trolley. He uttered garbled imprecations in her di
rection and continued to grunt and growl after she dis
appeared. He didnt totter or sway; he just hovered by 
the door of the cafe. When it opened again, a young man 
stuck his head out and handed him a glass of red wine.
of all ages saying the Oath of Initiation concerning the 
placement of beefpattypicklelettucerelish on a sesame 
seed bun. By spiritually passing through the golden arch
es, mankind would thus enter Burger Heaven where ev
erybody would be happy and well fed.
The cult of MacDonald thrived, and the number of 
burgers consumed was recorded until it had exceeded 
the planets entire population, giving all mankind the 
break it deserved. However, by 1970 A.D. burger wor
ship in general had begun a slow decline. The once 
sacred stands began to more and more resemble mere 
roadside restaurants, while heresies such as fish and chips 
and fried chicken became the rule. An era had finally 
ended: The female acolytes doubtlessly grew up and 
burger worship eventually became just another routine 
in American culture, secondary to skateboard manufac
ture, coathanger collecting, and those occasional but 
puzzling crusades against tired blood.
for further info consult:
The Earthian History Compendium 
Universal Coordinated Edition, A.D. 3859
Paranoid may have abandoned their, bomb shelter, but 
theyll no doubt feel safer with a duck in the District.
Then theres the matter of recognition. In 1976, 
when presidential candidates are cheaper by the dozen, 
the one who wins the big cheesecake will be the one 
whom the voters can recognize. The average voter cant 
remember his childrens names, but he knows a Big Mac 
when he sees one and, yes, he does squeeze the Charmin. 
Its all a matter of selling the product. I know a certain 
ex-footballer who could do much worse than to contract 
a New York ad firm to handle his PR. All he needs is 
a suitable duck logo which, through saturation adver
tising, can be firmly planted on the voters mind like an 
iron-on patch. Election day comes. The voter sidles into 
the booth, sees Fords name, says, Oh, the duck, 
pulls the handle. Ford wins in a landslide. Its a mallard, 
if not a mandate of the people.
Theres another consideration.
in tnis Bicentennial Year, any candidate who misses 
a Bicentennial Trick is going to miss the Bicentennial 
Boat as well. We have Bicentennial Money, Commemora
tive Stamps, Paintings, Maps, Paper Towels, Picture Post
cards, Tea, Cereal, Bread, even English Muffins. Why not 
a Bicentennial President? And didnt Benjamin Franklin 
suggest that the American Duck, rather than the 
moulting eagle should be the national bird? His effort 
failed, of course, but the legacy remains of the drake 
as a Brave Bicentennial Bird. President Ford can cash 
in his Bicentennial Chips at a profit and walk away with 
the election, just by identifying himself with the famous 
fowl. Wasnt Jonathan Livingston Duck a bestseller?
None of this is new. Candidates have always hidden 
their real selves behind images. More often than not, the 
images lied. Woodrow Wilson kept us out of war until 
he didnt. And Richard Nixon (he of the sweating upper 
lip) became the New Nixon to win in 1968. But he sure
ly proved in the following years that he was indeed the 
Old Nixon -- Now More than Ever. It doesnt matter 
that Ford shows none of the ducks noble qualities. All 
that matters is the image. And if Ford exploits his prop
erly, hell land up in the White House as surely as next 
years migration.
If it was good enough for Smokey the Bear...
UNIVERSITY ORATORY OF THE 
HOLY SPIRIT PARISH 
CMU CATHOLIC CHAPLAINCY
FROM ASHES TO EASTER
April 15: HOLY THURSDAY........................6:30 p m......HEINZ CHAPEL
A concelebrated Mass of the Lords Supper will celebrated with all of the priests of the 
Oratory in participation, for this is the day upon which we celebrate the institution of the 
Eucharist and the institution of the Priesthood Procession of the Blessed Sacrament to the 
Altar of Repose will follow with private adoration until 10:00 pm.
April 16: GOOD FRIDAY............................2:30 pm.... HEINZ CHAPEL
The Liturgy of the passion and death of the Lord will be celebrated with the 
distribution of Communion
April 17: HOLY SATURDAY........................9:30 pm.... HEINZ CHAPEL
The Easter Vigil, the blessing of the new Fire, the great Paschal bym*. the Prophecies, 
the blessing of the baptismal waters and renewal of baptismal vows, followed by the Mass of 
the Resurrection.
April 18: EASTER SUNDAY..............10:30 am.... SCIENCE HALL RM 7500
We encourage all of our parish community from Tech. Pitt, and Chatham to come together 
and celebrate these Liturgies which are the focal point of the Christian Year.
All liturgies: Traditional and folk music
(The Daily Masses will end Wednesday, April 14 and resume on Monday. April 19, Mon thru 
Fri. at 5:00 pm. The regular Sunday Masses resume on Sunday. April 25: 7:00 pm Tech 
House & 10:30 am Science Hall. Room 7500)
Fathers John Walsh and Bob English 
Tech House 5125 Margaret Morrison 621-2911.

---------------------------------------------------

0hMr L9XHm XFRXFT9lFNl5n LY. LGDU
On the Kiver
by Rick Costa
This 4th of July, as always, there was a picnic down 
by the river. People came from both sides of the river. 
The rich 'floated by on their big boats to look at the 
race. It was sunny.
The younger women wore their best summer dresses 
and carried yellow sun umbrellas. The older women 
spread blankets on the grassy river bank and protidly 
lifted food out of wicket baskets that the older men had 
touted down to the river. There was fresh corn and but
ter made just that morning, huge, dark green watermel
ons, and lemonade. They put the jugs of lemonade into 
the shallow part of the river to keep them cold. Thick 
plates were covered with slabs of beef or ham and whole 
radishes and sliced cucumbers. There was always straw
berries: strawberry pie, strawberry shortcake with cream 
and handfuls of ripe strawberries. The older women laid 
food out on the blarikets continually during the day.
In the morning there was a parade that gradually led 
down to the river bank. Three veterans of the Civil War 
marched at the head of the parade. After the parade the 
mayor made a speech.
He had been mayor for twenty years, and he proba
bly made the same speech every year. Im not sure about 
that because I never listened closely- Only when he 
stopped for a drink did you know that he had been 
speaking. The absence of his loud; enthusiastic voice 
made you realize that it had once been present.
He spoke for an hour or more, and the sun made his 
forehead glisten and produced dark patches of sweat un
der his arms and on his back. His speech conveniently 
concluded at the exact moment the food was ready.
When I was a young boy, the 4th of July was the 
main event of the summer, like Christmas in the winter. 
I wore my bathing suit all day. If you were under 10 you 
had to buy your firecrackers on the sly from your older 
brother. If you didnt have an older brother, someone 
else always did.
The boys under 12 and the dogs spent most of the 
day in motion. We ran after the parade. We threw fire
crackers at the speakers platform, making the mayor 
sweat still more, and then ran. We threw firecrackers in-, 
to the river, spraying the clean dresses of the younger 
women, and then ran. We threw firecrackers near the 
groups of older women and then ran. They stopped 
talking to scold us as we fled and then went back to talk
ing and lifting more pies and cakes out of wiceker bask
ets. We didn't dare throw any firecrackers by the groups 
of older men talking and playing horeshoes. They cursed 
loudly whenever a shoe hit a stake and with a clang 
rolled four feet away. We stuck firecrackers into the 
piles of horse shit and then ran. Sometimes we didnt 
run fast enough.
When that happened we jumped into the river to 
wash off. The dogs always followed close behind, even 
when we dove out into the river. If you were young, you 
could eat as often as you wanted and no one objected. 
The older women were even flattered that you were 
coming back for your fifth helping of their strawberry 
pie.
When you got older you had to worry about your ap
pearance and actions. You had to worry about the
younger women with the crisp dresses and the yellow 
sun umbrellas. I didnt wear my bathing suit all day any 
mor, and I did not run at all. My dog did no more run
ning either, since he was dead.
It was now afternoon and I was preparing for the 
race: across the river and back. Since I was a young man 
I could enter the race. I retired to a nearby house and re
moved my newest pair of summer trousers, bought spe
cially for the picnic, and put on my bathing suit. The 
suit stretched tight across my muscles as I went through 
the motions of warming up for the race in full view of 
the younger women. They carried yellow sun umbrellas 
and crowded near the river bank to see the race, but not 
so close that they could get splashed. The older men 
stopped their horseshoe game and came to watch the 
race. They bet on who would win.
I stood on the bank and looked down the line at my 
opponents. I knew all of them. I stood there for what 
seemed an hour until the judge shot the gun. The gun 
scared the horses and the younger women covered their 
ears. I dove into the clear blue river and temporarily for
got the younger women with the fringed sun umbrellas.
I slipped low into the water and began to pull it under 
me like a rug.
My dive was good and with a few strong strokes I was 
in the lead. I looked back and saw blue and silver bou
quets of water spraying up behind me. They were cheer
ing and hollering on the bank, but I could not hear them 
because of the sound of the water and the race. I 
reached the other bank and turned with a firm kick. On 
the way back I passed the frantic splashes of my oppo
nents. I knew I had won.
I swam slowly over to the speakers platform, now 
the judges platform, to get my trophy. I wanted to 
stretch out for as long as possible the time it would take 
me to get to shore where I knew the younger women 
would be waiting to look at me. While I was swimming
what to do when a thermal inversion 
comes between you and
the sunshine of your lifeFifty Ways to
I know you 're leaving, leaving me behind 
Im seeing you darling for the very last time . 
show a little tenderness, mama, before you go 
they say that breaking up is hard to do please let me feel your embrace once more
now I know, I know that it is true
but where are the clowns 
there ought to be clowns 
well, maybe next year
you keep me searching for a heart of gold and Im getting old
farther on up the road
somebodys going to hurt you like you hurt me
farther on up the road
baby, you just wait and see
now you re laughing pretty baby
someday you 're going to be crying
farther on up the road
you 11 find out I wasn D lying
therell be good times again for me and you 
but we just can D stay together, don D you feel it to 
still Im glad for what we had and how I once loved you 
but its too late, baby, its too late

---------------------------------------------------

TRAPEZE
XHm XFRXFT9FNl5n LY. LGDU90hMr LG
over a row boat pulled up along side me. A man in a ser
vants uniform told me that Mr. Frick wanted to con
gratulate me. Treading water, I asked where Mr. Frick 
was, and the man pointed to a huge boat floating down 
the river. From the water I could only see the hull of the 
boat. I swam over to the boat, although the servant did 
offer to row me over. When I reached the boat, other 
servants tried to help me climb aboard. The uniforms of 
the servants made them look like naval officers.
The boat was as big as ten houses. Climbing onto the 
elevated deck of the boat, I thought I had stepped into 
the outside pavillion of an amusement park dance hall. 
At each corner of the central deck there was a huge 
white trellis, and rose vines were climbing out.of brass 
pots and then up the trellises. The deck chairs were deli
cate strips of pale green iron and had gray and white 
cushions. There was a matching circular table, and the 
chairs were spaced with care around the table. On the ta
ble were trays with exotic foods. The boat had railings 
of thick polished brass. There were rows of gray pigeons 
perched on the railings. I could see reflections of my 
nose looking as long as my face, the sky and the river in 
them.
A man came over to me and shook my hand. I assume 
that it was Mr. Frick because I could see no other men 
on the boat, except for the servants. There were two 
women sitting motionlessly in pale green lounge chairs in 
the front deck of the boat. Mr. Frick was almost old but 
had a young body. His fluid motions were those of a 
man who was well-adjusted and always in command. He 
had an even tan and a controlled friendly smile.
He had on a loose white suit with silver buttons, snow 
white shoes, and a white silk shirt. He carried a tall glass 
of liquor in his left hand that he stirred once in a while 
with a thin silver spoon on top of which was a tiny silver 
lion. The diamond shapes cut into the thick glass refract
ed the sunlight so that it was impossible to identify the 
true color of the liquor in the glass. He gestured effort
lessly with the glass as he spoke, and I could hear ice 
cubes clink against glass. He wasnt sweating at all.
He turned to one of the servants. Bring this young 
man a reward for his efforts, he said.
You swim magnificently, he said to me.
I work at it. Although I do have a natural gift for 
it, I replied.
He nodded slightly and with the same graceful com
posure he had shown since I had first seen him, he 
pointed to a chair with his glass and said I should wait 
there for the servant. I waited for him to say something 
more, but he went down a stairway to the lower deck 
and went to the front of the boat to join the ladies. The 
stairs were carpeted in pale green and had a brass banis
ter. Mr. Frick and the ladies spoke so softly and so po
litely that I could only catch a phrase here and there of 
what they were saying. Mr. Frick was leaning against the 
brass railings. Every few minutes he casually shifted to 
another part of the railing. The gray birds on this part of 
the railing leapt up and then fluttered down like bits of 
newsprint on another part of the brass rails. The women 
never looked directly at Mr. Frick, but always at a differ
ent part of the railing than where he was standing, as if 
they were trying to guess where he would move to next.
What shall we do tonight? one of the women 
asked.
Whatever you wish, my dear, whatever you wish, 
he replied.
Lets get off this damn boat. These races are so bor
ing, she said. Lets go see a show. I wonder who is in 
town. Probably no one. No one is ever in Pittsburgh.
The servant came back and put a crystal goblet of ice 
cream and a spoon in front of me. The goblet also had 
diamond shapes cut into its side. The small scoop of ice 
cream was such a perfect ball it seemed a shame to eat it. 
I spent a few seconds feeling how smooth and heavy the 
spoon was and began to eat. The spoon had the same 
regal lion perched on its end.
There was a sprig of mint poked into the ball of ice 
cream, and I ate that too. I didnt know what flavor the 
ice cream was, but it was good. I was afraid of scraping 
the dish too hard with my spoon and scratching it, so I 
had to leave some of the ice cream in the bottom. I was 
just working myself up to sample the food on the tray 
nearest to me when Mr. Frick returned from the front of 
the ship.
Young man, it has been splendid having you on 
board, he said.
I could tell he wanted me to leave so 1 got up. A ser
vant marched over and with a damp cloth wiped off the 
table where I had been eating. Mr. Frick pointed to the 
servant and told him to show me where the boarding 
ladder was. Instead, I hopped up onto one of the brass 
railings, dove overboard, and swam toward shore to get 
my trophy, hoping the younger women and judges 
would still be waiting for me. I felt sure they would be, 
since not only had I won the race but I had also eaten a 
rich mans ice cream on board a rich mans boat. They 
would want me to tell them what it had been like.
I knew I wouldnt get the cramps, even though the 
boat had drifted a considerable distance down the river 
by now.
I quickly pushed to shore, but I had to climb up the 
river bank myself because no one came to help me. The 
people were waiting in a giant horseshoe ring. Everyone 
was so quiet I could hear the river water running in my 
ears. Even the younger boys were silent. I wanted to pat 
them on the shoulders and let them feel my arm mus
cles. I wanted to solemnly shake hands with a few of the 
older men, but the horseshoe of people kept sliding back 
as I walked closer. I wanted to touch someone, but they 
wouldnt stand still. They stared it me as if I had sprout
ed trout fins while in the water.
When I was a freshman, four years ago, 
at least two profound things were said to 
me. In one of the first classes I went to an 
upperclassman told me that CMU was a 
dog eat dog place. At the end of the same 
year a senior, whom I knew I would never 
see again, said, Have a nice life. This 
statement made me realize the absolute fi
nality of every action and the necessity for 
attempting to choose actions with care. If 
you thought I was going to close with a 
profound statement of my own, you were 
wrong. Have a nice life.
Leave Your
Man's greatest agony is to be separated from the true font of his being.
-Saint John of the Cross
yesterday love was such an easy game to play,
now 1 need a place to hide away
how can people be so heartless
how can people be so cruel
do you only care about the bleeding crowd
how about a needing friend
easy to be hard
easy to say no
Photography by Fred Shamlian
slip out the back, Jack
when your rooster crows at the break of dawn 
look out your window and I'll begone 
you re the reason Im traveling on 
dont think twice, its all right /
lie down my darling 
love aint for keeping 
lie down beside me 
love aint for keeping
note: if you recognize all these songs 
you listen to the radio too much

---------------------------------------------------

0hMr Z9XHm XFRXFT9FNl5n LY. LGDU
m5,Suennrqv obb1 0nhpvAppeal
,bpy5per1 glbu bpr
University In the near future to observe 
tHelr Food Service.
His as of yet unformalized plans in
clude remodeling and reorganization of
be better suited to its unlimited seconds 
policy. Kiltie Cafe will retain the current 
format of both regular and alternating 
entrees, but some of the regular entrees 
may be changed.
m5,Suen5rl Nnhpv yb Nnh,r ue,S ublr ruNShv5v bp
the Tartan Grill to provide HOT food. 
Most of the Grills menu will remain 
unchanged, but a few additions, such 
as fried chicken, are being considered. Al
so, pizzas, which have been available in 
the Last Slice Pizza Shop, will be moved 
upstairs to the Grill. Meals at Morewood, 
which currently parallal those of the Kil
tie Cafe, may be changed so that they will
vhp5yhy5bpC
In all of the cafeterias and kitchens, 
much more emphasis will be placed on 
sanitation. Eichmulier hopes that the 
quality of the food will be as good or 
better than it presently is.
Bill Dillon, Director of Auxiliary Ser
vices, said of the decision to appoint 
Eichmulier, There has never been an 
easier decision to make.
,bpy5per1 glbu NhMr bpr
own position, Roussos had written a let
ter to the Editor which he claimed, Gary 
Singer refused to print. My voice- my 
opinion was stifled. I had no opportunity 
to get it out. The Board, while admitting 
the legitimacy of Roussos complaint and 
criticizing the spare media coverage of 
the election, still voted three to one 
against it, while admitting it as an issue 
for its later, closed debate on the election 
issue itself.
The Board likewise rejected the ques
tion as to the improper designation and 
arrangement of the polls. Roussos ar
gument centered around two conditions 
which existed during the election: that 
the polls were often difficult to recognize, 
and that a number of people had been 
turned away because they had chosen to 
vote at a poll other than the one desig
nated for their particular college. He cited 
specific cases where the people in charge 
of the polls sat behind their tables, read
ing. In CFA and H&SS, the individuals 
gave the impression they were studying 
instead of running a polling place, Rou
ssos said.
In lashing out against the election pro
cedures which had provided for separate 
polling places for each college, Roussos 
pointed out that there were numerous in
stances of students going where it was 
most convenient and being told only that 
they could not vote without being
directed to the polling place for their col
lege. This was another example, he said, 
of a denial of the right to vote. The poll
ing places werent hidden, Yacoe coun
tered, Any student who was interested 
in voting could have taken the time to 
walk over to his college and do so. Again 
the Board (by a vote of 3 to 1) rejected 
this issue as one to be considered in 
assessing the overall legitimacy and equa
bility of the election.
After all the arguments were heard, 
the Board excused the two candidates 
and its non-voting members, and Konopka, Lawson, Bona, and Bachner went in
to closed session to decide whether the 
one issue which they did vote to exa
mine, the early closig of the polls, was 
substantial grounds for declaring the elec
tions void. The result of their three to 
one decision in favor of Roussos appeal 
will be a new election to be held on April
22 and 23. (See page 6 for information 
on polling places, etc.)
CnbSp m5,Suen5rl. pra obb1 srlc5,r 5lr,ybl
FREE ROOM AND BOARD
xp r6,ShpMr gbl 251 v5yy5pM 
hp1 u5pbl 25y,Srp SrnNC
bel bap NcyC h, nhlMr hNyC 
gnr65inr SbelvC bepM 5pd
yrlrvy5pM ghu5ntC
SQUIRREL HILL422-9607
UNIVERSITY 
COPY 
SERVICE
HIGHEST QUALITY XEROX COPIES 
(All work unconditionally guaranteed) 
LOWEST PRICES 
Single copies per original - 5c 
Multiple copte per original:
1st copy 
2nd50th copies
51 itU
3
2
NO EXTRA CHARGE FOR:
collating  3-hole punched 
colored paper e legal six
Low cost bookbinding 
Quality offset printing 
209 N. Craig St. 681 5411
Howto fly home in the face of inflation
Flying home economically 
is simple when you take off 
on Allegheny. And take ad
vantage of the big choice of 
discount air travel plans. 
For instance:
The Liberty Fare.
You can go home and a lot 
of other places besides, with 
unlimited air travel at one, 
low price. You get a choice of 
plans, too. 7 days ibr $135,
14 days fbr $155, or 21 days 
ibr #185. Good everywhere we 
fly, except Canada. Advance 
purchase required.
Group 4 to 9*
Groups of 4 to 9 save up to 
20% roundtrip between any 
of our U.S. cities. Simply 
make reservations and pur
chase tickets 48 hours in 
advanceand travel to
gether. Our Group 10 Plan 
saves larger groups up to 
33-1/3% roundtrip.
0blrv vei3r,y yb ,ShpMr a5ySbey pby5,r 
mggr,y5cr FNl5n L.LGDUC
The Freedom Fare.
It*s brand new, offering up 
to 30% savings befbre June 1 
and after September 15. Dur
ing the summer season, the 
discount is 20%. Freedom Fare 
seating is limited on each 
flight, so advance reserva
tions and pre-purchase of 
tickets are required. Good 
everywhere, except Canada.
The Weekend Plan.
Take off as early as 7 PM 
Fridayreturn as late as 
noon Monday and save up to 
25% roundtrip between our 
U.S. cities. Good anytime 
including holiday weekends 
with advance reservations 
and pre-purchase of tickets.
It's your move.
See your Travel Agent fbr 
complete details on our dis
count air travel plans. Or 
call Allegheny. We'll show 
you how to fly in the fece 
of inflation.
z;DUBj

---------------------------------------------------

XHm XFRXFTOFNl5n LY.LGDU90hMr ZL
PIKA WINS BUGGY TWO YEARS IN A ROW
H5nn bp r6,ShpMr gbl FXJ hp1 ol5pMr 5p shyel1htv g5phn lh,rvC
,bpy5per1 glbu NhMr bpr 
er. This caused the slower full course 
time.
The weather at 7:00 am Friday morn
ing was certainly not perfect racing wea
ther, but it was acceptable. The sun rose 
in a cloudless sky, the temperature was in 
the mid thirties, and a chilling breeze 
was blowing. The only operational prob
lem with Sweepstakes this year was a 42 
minute delay at the start of the races on 
Friday morning. The delay was due to the 
late arrival of the police and also several 
cars that were parked on the course and 
had to be removed before the races could 
begin. Once' the races got started, how
ever. everything ran very smoothly.
Several late scratches were made 
before race day as DTD and SN both 
withdrew their B buggies. Consequent
ly, Fringe was moved.from heat 1 to heat 
4 so that ATO would not be running 
alone.
The first heat had the SAE bike run-, 
ning against the TX buggy. It was a rather 
dull heat with no problems and very slow 
times for both entries. TX failed its brake 
test and was disqualified. Heat 2 was a 
little more exciting as the ATO B bugiy followed the ATO tradition of last 
/ear and lost most of the rubber on its 
ight rear tire shortly after entering the 
'reeroll side of the course. This loss slow
ed it down considerably and it was 
Jromptly passed by the CIA Streetcar 
ust before the monument. The SAE A 
>uggy, Intrepid, led through the whole 
ace and finished with the fastest time of 
the day to that point, followed by the
CIA and ATO respectively.
Heat 3 was rather uneventful as the 
BTP B buggy bettered SAEs heat 2 
times and finished well in front of the ve
ry slow PLP buggy and the SDC bike. In 
heat 4, the ATO. A buggy (keeping all 
its tires intact for a change) turned in a 
very fast time which would eventually 
earn them a second place in the prelim
inaries. The Fringe Flying Buttress 
also turned in a very respectable time 
in heat 4 which got them into the finals 
on Saturday.
Heat 5 was a very exciting heat, as 
PKA B and BTP A battled for the 
lead all the way through. PKA had a 
faster freeroll, but BTP was stronger in 
both the front and back hills. This ena
bled them to beat PKA by just one 
second. Both BTP A and PKA B 
buggies made it to the finals the next day. 
The DU buggy also ran in heat 5, but 
finished with a very slow three minute 
plus time.
Heat 6 produced the only accident of 
Sweepstakes 76 as the SDC A buggy 
hit the SN buggy from the right side just 
after the pushoff into freeroll. The col
lision didnt seem to affect the SN buggy 
too much, as they proceeded to record 
the fastest freeroll time of the day. Their 
pushers were not up to the task however, 
and they finished in a disappointing 
2:29.9. The judges decided that the SDC 
buggy was at fault in the collision and 
the SDC was disqualified and SN was 
granted a rerun for the following mor
ning.
The collision affected the SDC buggy
METROPOLITAN INTERVIEWING 
APRIL 20
SALES AND MARKETING MANAGEMENT 
CAREER OPPORTUNITIES AVAILABLE
:5nn Nnh,r hptaSrlr 5p ySr 8K vyhyrv hp1 Ahph15hp a5yS ySr 
h,,rpy bp ySr nb,hn hlrhC
7hl2ry5pM rMlrr pby pr,rvvhltC
O Metropolitan Life
Where the future is now
To Honor the Bicentennial...
f)e itaci) Cfjoir of $ittburgt), $a., int.
Nlrvrpyv
yab ,hpyhyhv it Furl5,hp ,buNbvrlvE oJRsFqmT Jo 7FT. /rb sbarlit
XHm IRmmT /Fm RxsmXH. 7C srhlnr :l5MSy
qrppryS F6rnvbp 15lr,y5pM ,Sb5l. vbnb5vyv hp1 blMhp
7bp1ht. FNl5n ZU. EKK NCuC
Xl5p5yt AhySr1lhn. s56yS FcrC prhl sunySgnrn1
Tick* $3.00 - Students $2.00  Pitt Student Union.
Kaufmonn s & Horne s (downtown), and Sears (retail)
L
by slowing it down very much. They had 
the slowest freeroll time of the day and 
the buggy almost stopped at several 
places on the freeroll side of the course. 
The SDC hill 3 pusher picked the buggy 
up all the way down at the corner and 
had to run the longest hill 3 ever seen. 
The PKT B buggy also ran in heat 6 
but was not affected by the accident. It 
had a relatively slow freeroll time and 
finished well out of the top six.
Heat 7 had the PKA A team run
ning the fastest time of the day at 2:23.9. 
They were in the lead for the entire 
race. Their freeroll time was only the 
third fastest but their push team, who 
have been practicing since last fall, along 
with a very good rollout made up the dif
ference to give them the fastest time. 
Also in the heat were the DTD and KS 
buggies. The DTD buggy posted a very 
mediocre time and the KS buggy ran a 
three minute plus time because of a very 
slow freeroll due to a problem with their 
buggy.
The final heat of the day proved to be 
one for the most exciting. It featured the 
PKT Streak, the ZBT bike was the first 
into freeroll but was quickly passed by 
PKT and the C.I.A. The C.I.A.s Black 
Magic then set out after Streak. Black
finished third in the heat at 2:36.9.
The results of the first day of racing 
had PKA A in first place at 2:23.9, 
ATO A in second at 2:24.9, BTP A 
in third at 2:25.3, PKA B in fourth at 
2:26.3, PKT A in fifth at 2:28.1, and 
Fringe in sixth at 2:30.7. The SN buggy, 
which finished in 2:27.9, was not count
ed in the top six because it was granted 
a rerun and would be running alone the 
next day anyway.
Because of a change in the rules this 
year the finalists heats were run slightly 
differently than usual. In the past, if a 
rerun was granted, the finalist would be 
selected only after the reruns were run 
and everyone had an official time record
ed. Then the finalists heats would be 
run in the usual way with the top three 
buggies running for first, second, and 
third places and the.next three running 
only for fourth, fifth, and sixth places. 
The new rules, however, state that if 
any reruns are granted, the top sue will 
be selected separately from the rerun en
tries and then the top six for first place in 
the finalists heat.
The finalist heats were run Saturday 
morning and because of the new rules 
there were seven entries competing for 
first place instead of just three. The
H5nn gbel a5yS FXJ hSrh1 bg ol5pMr hp1 0qF ((C FXJ arpy bp yb a5pC
Magic caught Streak just after the mon
ument and then passed it during the turn 
and came into hill 3 just slightly ahead of 
it. The C.I.A. pushers, however, just 
couldnt quite match those of PKT and 
PKT won the heat by less than three 
seconds. PKTs time was good enough 
for fifth place and a spot in the finals. 
The C.I.A., with their new buggy, fin
ished at 2:30.9, just 0.2 seconds out 
of the top six finalists. The ZBT bike
weather was slightly warmer than Friday 
but otherwise the same. Everything 
else ran just as smoothly as Fridays 
races and there were no accidents. The 
action started about 7:30 am with 3 
rather unexciting alumni heats, the high 
point of which was the PKA alumnis 
very fast time of just over 2:30.
After the alumni heats SN was granted 
their rerun. They ran alone in the heat 
Abpy5per1 bp NhMr yarpyt9yab
XruNnrv Xtnrl s,Sbbn bg Fly hp1 AbnnhMr bg 
/5irlhn Flyv bggrl hp h,h1ru5, trhl bl vrurvyrl 
bg vye1t hy ySr P5nnh AhNlbp5. ySr fp5crlv5ytv 
Rbur AhuNev sye1t hp1 n5cr 5p ySr Srhly bg 
Rbur. h vSbly ahn2 glbu ySr sNhp5vS syrNv P5v5y 
onblrp,r. 05vh hp1 bySrl xyhn5hp ,enyelhn ,rpyrlv 
oenn ,lr15y ,belvrv hlr yheMSy it 15vy5pMe5vSr1 
melbNrhp hp1 Furl5,hp gh,enytC
Xtnrl s,Sbbn bg Fp
0h5py5pM  lha5pM  0ppyuh25pM 
s,enNyelr  Fly H5vyblt 
AbnnrMr bg /5irlhn Flyv
FpySlbNbnbMt melbNrhp /5yrlhyelr 
rM5pp5pM ySlbeMS h1chp,r1 xyhn5hp 
xyhn5hp /5yrlhyelr hp1 Aenyelr  Anhvv5,hn 
hp1 7b1rlp H5vyblt  flihp sye15rv 
xp1rNrp1rpy sye15rv 
Abpyh,yE I5nn5hp 0rv,Sr.
Jgg5,r bg xpyrlphy5bphn srlc5,rv 
XruNnr fp5crlv5yt. 0S5nh1rnNS5h. 0hC LGLZZ 
zZL8j DD DZZG
TEMPLE UNIVERSITY
F AbuubparhnyS fp5crlv5yt
ueiiujens

---------------------------------------------------

0hMr ZZ9XHm XFRXFT9^Nl5g LY.LGDU
XmTTxs XmF7 Y9L 
fqms. :w" oF//
by Roger Cam bor
Two weeks into the 1976 season and 
the CMU mens tennis team holds a 2-1 rec
ord in the PACs and a 3-1 record overall.
After matches on alternate days of a 
gruelling week, the Netmen clinched victor
ies over Duquesne, 6-3 (non-conference), 
and W&J, 5-4. The scrappy W&J team pro
vided hair-raising competition as the match 
went down to the wire. At one time CMU 
was behind 1-4 but came back to win 5-4. 
On Saturday the tide changed. CMU 
dropped their seasons first to Allegheny, 
2-7. Allegheny was strong in the confer
ence last year and from all likelihood will 
repeat.
Kudos to sophomore Gary Kem6nv, 
the teams pressure player who has won all 
four of his singles matches at the number 
two position. Besides this, the team has 
great depth (strength in all six positions). 
An indication of this is the three doubles
XmTTxs Rmsf/Xs
CMU VS. W&J
Singles Position
1. Chuck Carroll (CMU) vs. Ryder 6-2,
2-6,3-6
2. Gary Kemeny vs. Cruikshane 6-4, 7-6
3. Marc Silver vs. Stein 3-6,6-7
4. Roger Cambor vs. Fernberger 6-2, 3-6,
5-7
5. Paul Gehman vs. Hillegas 1-6, 2-6
6. Larry Riddle vs. Smiscak 7-6, 5-7, 7-6
Doubles Position
1. Carroll-Silver vs: Cruikshank-Ryder
6-2,64
2. Cambor-Gehman vs. Stein-Fernberger
4-3,7-5,6-2
3. Kemeny-Chandler vs. Hillegas-Levine
7-6, 7-5
MATCH SCORE: CMU 5-W&T 4
052h Teuirl Jpr
,bpy5per1 glbu NhMr yarpyt9bpr 
from lane 3. Again they were rather dis
appointing. Their freeroll time was slight
ly slower than Fridays, but their overall 
time was a little better as they posted a 
2:26.7.
Next came the two finalistss heats. 
The first heat placed the second, fourth, 
and sixth fastest preliminary times against 
each other. It consisted of ATO A, 
PKA B, and Fringe. The race was close 
but rather uneventful. The buggies went 
through freeroll in single File with no 
passing attempted. ATO was in front, 
followed by Fringe and PKA respectively 
and that is how they Finished. ATO 
posted a 2:25.0 time (0.1 seconds slower 
than Friday), Fringe came in at 2:28.6 
(2.1 seconds faster than Friday), and 
PKA B recorded at 2:30.3 (4.0 se
conds slower than Friday.)
The second Finalist heat put the 
first, third, and fifth fastest preliminary 
times against each other. It was comprised 
of PKA A, BTP A, and PKT A. 
Again it was a very close race. PKA led 
throughout as they had a very good freeroll 
and rollout. BTP challenged them on the 
back hills but just couldnt quite catch 
them. PKA finished first with a 2:23.3 (an 
improvement of 0.6 seconds) BTP second 
at 2:24.6 (0.7 seconds faster) and PKT fin
ished third at 2:26.5 (1.6 seconds faster). 
After all of the dust settled, the overall 
standings were: PKA A first, BTP A 
second, ATO A third, PKT A fourth, 
SN A fifth, Fringe sixth, and PKA B 
bumped to seventh.
teams records. Each has won three of four 
matches for a total of nine out of twelve 
possible doubles points.
The teams next home match will be on 
Wednesday, April 14, at 2:30 against Thiel.
CMU VS. DUQUESNE 
Singles Position
1. Chuck Carroll (CMU) vs. Ed Neal
4-6, 3-6
2. Gary Kemeny vs. Dave Hamilton
6-3, 6-3
3. March Silver vs. Jeff Weisband
6-3,64
4. Roger Cambor vs. Phil Nerti 3-6, 7-5,
. 1-6
5. Paul Gehman vs. Dave Knell 5-7, 6-2,
6-3
6. Dave Chandler vs. Mark DeBease 5-7,
6-7
Doubles Position
1. Carroll-Silver vs. Neal-Weisband
64,7-6
2. Cambor-Gehman vs. Nerti-DeBease
64,6-2
3. Kemeny-Chandler vs. Hamilton-Knell
3-6,64,6-1
MATCH SCORE: CMU 6-DUKES 3
1M BOARD MEETING  Tuesday, April 
13, 4:30 in the IM Office.
IM TRACK MEET  as of this printing the 
date is undecided. Entries are due April 13 
but entries will be taken on the day of 
meet. See Mr. Birdy for more information. 
Events
880 yard relay 
100 yard dash 
880 yard run 
440 yard dash 
220 yard dash 
1 mile relay 
1 mile run
120 yard low hurdles 
shot put 
high jump 
long jump
SOFTBALL  Check IM Board for game 
schedules. Softball commissioner is Paul
by Gordon Morrison
The Carnegie-Mellon University Varsity 
fencing team finished undefeated this sea
son with wins over Pennsylvania State Uni
versity (Fayette Campus) 41-13 on Mon
day and California State College of Penn
sylvania 64-20 on Wednesday.
Against Penn State, the CMU women 
won 13-3. Jenny Willis and Joan Gravitz 
won all four of their bouts. Monica Gross
Landis 422-9674. Call anytime. 
TEAM BADMINT0N STANDINGS
TeamWinLose
M.B.sIII
PsychologyIII
Tiny GorillasI
ZBTII
McGilldoesII
SAEII
Racket LeagueWinLoss
M.BsIII
(Zimmerman-Morrison)
PsyhcologyII
(Jakimik-Neves)
PKT NettersIII
(Cummis-Strom)
Goldstein-ConleyII
Power-Bo ppI
Wilk-Nock1I
won three of four, while Rise Reinecker 
won two. Against California, the CMU 
women won 24-11 with Miriam Whitworth, 
Joan Gravitz, and Monica Gross winning 
six of seven. Jenny Willis won five. The 
womens team finished the year with 135 
bout won and only 64 losses with all six of 
the women winning more than they lost. 
The womens team won six matches with 
no losses and finished fourth in the PennAbpy5per1 bp NhMr yarpyt ySlrr
ACADEMIC YEAR ABROAD
xTxPxfF/xm sXf 0RJIRF7s
0FRxs
AJ//mIm w IRFfFXm 
sXfmTXs 
olbu 'L.KKKC 
yb 'B.ZDKC
/JTJT
AJ//mIm U IRFfFXm 
sXfmTXs 
lbp 'L.B8K 
yb '8.8UKC
7FRx
AJ//mIm w IRFfFXm 
sXfmTXs 
olbu 'L.KKKC
yb 'B.LLKC
rNrp15pM bp bNy5bpv ,Sbvrp w nrpMyS bg vye1t 
hNNn5,hy5bpv h,,rNyr1 epy5n u519veuurl
5pgb5uhgybp. al5y RFU XHJRTXJT. ZZL mbvy 8K sylrry. Tra bl2. TC C LKKZZ
Refreshercourse.
From one beer lover to another.
THE STROH BREWERY COMPANY, DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
"JX XHxs J:T
Fencers Undefeated

---------------------------------------------------

XHm XFRXFTOFNl5n LY.LGDU90hMr ZY
TRACK TEAM SPLITS
by Bob Firm
Carnegie-Mellons track team, coached 
by Gary Meckley, has gotten off to a prom
ising start with an impressive 116-28 vic
tory over St. Francis and a narrow defeat 
at the hands of Allegheny, 74-68.
Several outstanding performances were 
turned in by the Tartans in the St. Francis 
meet. Speedster Pete Rothermel raced to 
victories in the 100 and 220 yard dashes. 
Ed OBrien also doubled with wins in the 
110 high hurdles and the 440 intermediate 
hurdles. Freshman Dave Walsh set the 
school record in the high jump with a mark 
of 6 feet 2lv inches.
Other individual victories included Lar
ry Gordon in the mile run, John Lewandowski in the quarter-mile, and Wade Gregson in the triple jump. CMU also captured 
the 440 yard and mile relays.
Against Allegheny, CMU came from be
hind on the strength of a 1-2 finish by Jack 
Dalay and Dave Barby in the 3 mile run to 
bring the Tartans to within one point. The 
mile relay, the final event, decided the con
test as the Gators won both the relay and 
the meet.
Rothermel again swept the sprints, win
ning the 100 and 220 yard dashes and 
anchoring the 440 yard relay team. Walsh 
and Gregson repeated in their jumping spe
cialties.
Coach Meckley commented that the 
team is young, consisting mainly of fresh
men and sophomores. He also said that the 
squad is well-balanced and should provide 
a good foundation to build for the future.
Helynrl 1el5pM urry hMh5pvy syC olhp,5v
Fencers Beat PSU & CSC
Continued from page twenty two
sylvania Collegiate Championships.
The mens team beat Fayette 28-10 
with Richard Jorkasky winning all eight of 
his bouts, with Victor Brennan winning 
seven. Peter Bond won six, John Maldon
ado won five, and Tim Hoffman won four. 
The men also beat CSC 40-9. Victor Bren
nan went undefeated by winning all nine of 
his bouts. Richard Jorkasky won all four of 
his bouts. John Booz won eight of nine, 
with Peter Bond winning seven. John Mal
donado and Tim Hoffman each won six. 
lhe mens team won 206 bouts and lost 
only 51 this season. All nine of the men 
won more than they lost. The team fin
ished with a perfect 7-0 record this year.
Leading tne mens team to their unde
feated season was Richard Jorkasky with a 
perfect 35-0 record. Victor Brennan fin
ished with a 40-3 record. The womens 
team, also undefeated, was lead by Jenny 
Willis (27-8), Miriam Whitworth (30-9), 
and Monica Gross (25-8).
An Evening with Lindsay Anderson
/5p1vht Fp1rlvbp. 15lr,ybl bg XS5v 
sRJl5uM"fgr. xgC CJS/e,2t 
7hp? hp1 xp Arnrilhy5bp. hv arnn hv 
bcrl h 1bWrp 5uNblyhpy vSbly g5nuv. 
5v hnvb hp hly5vy5, 15lr,ybl bg ySr 
/bp1bp Rbthn Abely XSrhylr. aSrlr 
Sr Shv irrp ,S5rgnt hvvb,5hyr1 a5yS 
ySr abl2 bg Nnhtal5MSy hc51 syblrtC 
7lC Fp1rlvbp 5v hvvelr1nt bpr bg ySr 
ubvy hly5,enhyr hp1 5pyrnn5Mrpy urp 
rcrl yb vyhp1 irS5p1 h nr,yelr 
Nb15euC
Wed. April 14 
8:00 P.M. 
Skibo Ballroom
Sponsored by 
AB Lectures & 
Special Events
Funded by: 
Activities Fee
Ibng Trav
by Mike Galloway
The Carnegie-Mellon golf team, anxious 
to avenge the championship loss of last sea
son when they blew a six stroke lead after 
the opening round, has gotten off to a fly
ing start.
The season started last Tuesday with an 
away match at Grantwood Golf Course 
against John Carrol. Six players from each 
team play the course, and the best five 
scores count towards the team total. The 
low five-man total wins the match. Jack 
Arturo led CMU with an 80 on their way 
to a 421 total that topped John Carrol by 
five strokes. Mike Gallaway and A1 Me'yerhoff fired 82s and Bill Mackin, Tim Mc
Cullough, and Paul Minor shot 87,88, and 
89 respectively.
The following day the team travelled to
West Virginia to play a tri-match with Thiel 
and Bethany. Half the team forgot that 
West Virginia is south of Pittsburgh and 
ended up in Butler, Pa. By the time the 
navigator steered them to the course, CMU 
was forced to forfeit the match. They 
played anyway and had the scores counted, 
the Tartans would have beaten Bethany 
and lost to Thiel. Jack Arturo was the 
medalist with a 75. Mike Gallaway shot an 
81; A1 Meyerhoff and Bill Mackin shot 
82s; Jess Eiger shot an 85 ; and Tim McCul
lough shot an 87.
CMU finished up the week with its first 
home match at Longue Vue Country Club. 
They easily defeated Hiram as Paul Minor 
was the medalist with -a 76. Jack Arturo 
shot an 80, Mike Gallaway an 85, A1 Mey
erhoff an 86, and Tim McCullough an 88.
FENCING FOIL 
FINAL RESULTS AND TOTALS
NAMEWLPCT
Jenny Willis27877.1
Miriam Whitworth30976.9
Monica Gross25875.8
Joan Gravitz271662.8
Liza Hayes141253.8
Rise Reinecker121152.2
Richard Jorkasky350100.0
Victor Brennan40393.0
Joe Sivak20290.9
John Booz23485.2
Peter Bond32880.0
Gary Frankston11473.3
Tim Hoffman221461.1
Eric Zischkau9660.0
John Maldonado141058.3
SPORTS TRIVIA
Arnold Palmer has never won the PGA 
Championship...Danny Murtaugh holds the 
record for most times hired as manager of 
a team ( four by Pittsburgh)...Wilt Cham
berlain holds the NBA record for most 
free throws made in a single game...Oak
land punter Ray Guy was also in the top 
ten in NCAA interceptions in his senior 
year at Southern Mississippi...Johnny Van 
der Meers second consecutive no-hitter 
was the first night game played at Ebbets 
FiekL.More officials are used per partici
pant in championship tennis matches than 
in any other sport...Austin Carr holds the 
NCAA record for most points in a tourn
ament game...The Philadelphia Phillies are 
the only pre-expansion team never to win 
the World Series...Byron Nelson holds the 
record for most consecutivePGA tour 
victories (11).
SUMMER TEACHING JOBS
Xrh,S5pM Fvv5vyhpyv hlr prr1r1 5p h ep5)er 
Nlr9,bnnrMr veuurl NlbMlhu z"ent ZY. LGDU O 
FeMevy YL. LGDUj gbl A7f rpyrl5pM glrvSurpC 
FNNn5,hpyv uevy ir )ehn5g5r1 yb yeybl hy nrhvy 
yab bg ySr gbnnba5pME Ahn,enev x. Nlr9,hn,enev. 
,Sru5vylt. NStv5,v. ,buNeyrl v,5rp,r zhNn bl

---------------------------------------------------

can teach you something you may have
The subject A If  m li| and the ability
is leadership. | to perform under
The course pressure are
is Army ^ important. The
ROTC. The 1 people who
entire cur- Mm I 11 ^ demonstrate
riculum is M A V these qualities
exciting, challenging, and are the people we want to
flexible. So flexible that, if become Army officers,
qualified, you can enter at As an Army officer,
any time during your first you will not only have to
two years on campus. manage people but money
Through practical and materials as well. To
experience, you will leam make more important planhow to lead. The acquired ning decisions than most
discipline of mind and spirit young executives.
At Camegie-Mellon, you can leam what it takes to lead.
CALL: Major Carey 621-2600 Ext. 281/282
