TARTAN
April 17, 1979Volume 79, Number 28Carnegie-Mellon UniversityPittsburgh, PA 15213
Campus Prepares For Spring Carnival
The constant racket of power saws and 
the word buggy in every other sentence 
are sure signs that Spring Carnival is almost 
upon us.
An annual event since 1920, the theme 
for this years Carnival is Countries. Fol
lowing the theme, each of the 27 groups 
that have a booth will be representing a dif
ferent country.
The Opening Ceremony is at 5 PM on 
Thursday, which is also when the Midway 
and rides open. Rides and the Midway will 
be located in Skibo Parking lot. Musical 
entertainment scheduled for Thursday in
cludes a concert by the Jazz Ensemble at 
5:30 PM, an AB Coffeehouse featuring 
Michael Marlin at 8 PM, and an SDC spon
sored disco from 9 to 12 PM in the tent. 
Other activities include Watercolors, a 
play presented by Scotch n Soda at 8 PM 
in the Skibo ballroom, three showings of 
Close Encounters of the Third Kind, 
and the traditional opening night fire
works display at the IM Field.
First-round buggy races begin at 9 AM 
Friday. Noon is the scheduled opening time 
for the Midway, the rides, and the Inter
national Fair. The International Fair goes 
until 5 PM, and will be in the tent. Other 
Friday afternoon activities will include an 
egg toss, relay races, and a Frisbee contest 
at the IM Field, two additional showings
of Close Encounters. . ., and the Arts 
and Crafts Fair, which will be open both 
afternoons until 6 PM. Entertainment will 
again abound on Friday night. TGIF will 
present The Rhythm Kings at 6 PM in the 
tent, then AB concerts has planned an 
Evening with Dave Brubeck to begin at 8 
PM in Carnegie Music Hall. Scotch n Soda 
will again perform Watercolors also at 
8 PM . For those still able to walk, SDC 
will be sponsoring an old fashioned Square 
Dance in the tent at 9 PM. Close Encoun
ters... will be shown for the last time at 
11:30 PM, and the Midway will close at 
midnight.
Stomachs will be churning as the Sweep
stakes finals get underway at nine on Satur
day morning. Once again, the rides and 
Midway will open at noon, which is also 
when the SDC Gong Show is slated to be
gin. The afternoon will be filled with more 
traditional Carnival activities such as a pieeating contest, plank jousting, and a tugo-war. Dixieland music will be featured in 
the tent at 6 PM. The first of three show
ings of Blazing Saddles will also be at 6 
PM. The final performance of Water
colors will be at 8 PM. The Midway closes 
at 10 PM, signaling the start of the SDC 
Semi-formal. Awards will also be given out 
at 10 PM in Thistle Hall. The evening ends 
with the final showing of Blazing Sad
dles.
With Spring Carnival and sweepstakes less than a week away, the push teams and drivers used every minute of their last free-roll practice in an effort to eliminate seconds from race times.
Food Service Changed
Five to Get Honorary Degree
In keeping with the tradition started in 
1962, Camegie-Mellon Universitys Com
mencement exercises will be held on Mon
day, May 14, 10:00 AM on the lawn in 
front of the College of Fine Arts. Besides
Greeks 
'Hop' 
For CARE
the 878 undergrads and 598 grad Students 
who will be receiving diplomas in May, 
honorary degrees will be given to Pierre 
R. Aigrain, physicist and French Gov
ernment official; William Ball, General 
Director of the American Conservatory 
Theatre; Ruth M. Davis, Deputy Under 
Secretary of Defense (Research and Ad
vanced Technology); Marvin L. Goldberger, 
President of the California Institute of 
Technology; and Irving S. Shapiro, Chair
man of the Board of E.I. DuPont Nemours 
and Company.
In case of rain, undergrads will be mov
ed to the gymnasium, masters to the Skibo 
Ballroom, and doctors to the College of 
Fine Arts.
CMU is buying a new computer. But the 
Vali-Dine System Series/4 will not be used 
for class or research work. Food Service is 
purchasing the Series/4 as a major part of 
the redesigning of food service here at 
CMU.
The new system will eliminate the cur
rent punch card, and replace it with a mag
netic card. To pay for your meal, you pre
sent your card to the cashier, who inserts it 
into one of the ten terminal/cash registers. 
The terminal will then show how much 
money you have left in your account. If 
you find that you under estimated your 
food costs at the beginning of the semester, 
you may add money, in increments of 
$100, at any time. Also, any money that is 
left in your account at the end of the 
semester will be returned to you.
Eichmuller said he visited Penn State, 
where this same system is already in opera
tion, and it appears to be working well. 
As far as I know, an account has never 
been lost on this system, he said. He also 
explained that the system has an emergen
cy battery back-up in the event of a power 
failure. No suggestions as to what would 
happen if the computer itself went down 
were offered.
Because each item will be assigned a 
cash, rather than point value, Food Service 
will also be able to change the price of an 
item during the course of a semester. 
Eichmuller explained that this will allow 
Food Service to raise or lower the price of 
an item depending on its current market 
value. He said that this, coupled with the 
fact that money may be added or, in effect 
subtracted from an account will make the 
decision of how much to charge for a 
particular plan much easier. I had to 
decide over a month ago how much this 
Falls food plans would have cost. It is very 
hard to predict food prices that far in ad
vance, he stated.
But the computer is not the only new 
facet of Food Service CMU students can 
expect to see in the Fall.
The Kiltie Cafe will remain basically the 
same, with the exception that a vegetarian 
entree will be served each night.
Salads Plus is the name of the lunch 
time cafeteria line, to be located in the 
present Bakery/Deli. Soups, bread, des
serts, and beverages, as well as salads sold 
by weight will be sold here.
The Bakery/Deli is moving to Morecontinued on page 4
Miller: "Senate is No Longer a Joke"
Members of the CMU chapters of the Kappa 
Kappa Gamma sorority and the Delta Upsilon 
fraternity recently participated in a ten-mile 
Hop-a-thon" designed to raise funds for CARE.
On Saturday, at 10:00 AM, participants, in
cluding a life-sued Delta Upsilon Easter Bunny 
and * KPP* Kappa Gamma Easter Chick, com 
"need their journey. The group started at the 
eomer of Forbes and Morewood, and finally 
rrivad at the Point downtown lata tfiat afternoon.
Student Senate is no longer a joke 
organi/.a! ion" said lecently re-elected 
Senate Chairperson Scott Miller. A senator 
since October of his first year. Miller, cur
rently a sophomore, is starting a third term 
as Senate Chairperson with a group of 
senators he feels are on Senate because 
they care about the University and their 
fellow students: not just because the 
office will look good on their resumes.
Its most important that students can 
come to us. There are very few things we 
(Senate) cant do anything about, Miller 
emphasized. Although he is still disappoint
ed at the small number of students who 
come to Senate meetings, one way he has 
sought to make Senate more accessible is 
to initiate a time during each regular 
Senate meeting where any student may 
offer suggestions to Senate.
The first of two major challenges Miller 
sees before him is the Activities Fee. He 
said that a poll is currently being created 
to more accurately determine how
students want their Activities Fee spent. 
If the Activities Fee is not raised next 
year, we will have to drop the sports clubs 
to balance our budget, said Miller. He 
explained that the sports clubs would be 
the first to go because funding them in the 
first place is bending Senate rules. In order 
to fund them, Senate classifies them as 
educational groups. He pointed out that 
WRCT is the only group that will receive 
more Senate subsidy money for the coming 
school year than they had this year. Many 
groups, such as the TARTAN, will get 
less of a subsidy next year, Miller said. 
Another possible, though unlikely, alterna
tive is for Senate to fund only the three 
large service oriented groups: WRCT, 
Acivities Board (AB), and the TARTAN.
I know we could do it, Miller com
mented about a student-run 
Student Union. Citing other groups, such 
as WRCT, AB and Senate as examples of 
student operated groups that have many 
varied facets and handle large amounts of
money, he feels that in order for it to be 
a true Student Union, it must be student 
operated.
Miller pointed out several problems 
with Skibo, the existing Student Union on 
campus. First, it houses many university 
offices, which take up badly needed space. 
An example of this fact is United Fraternal 
Organization (UFO), by Off-Campus Hous
ing. UFO is now on a waiting list, along 
with 20 other groups, for an office in Skibo. 
In addition, Miller said several groups that 
already have an office have requested more 
space.
However, office space is not the only 
type of space lacking. There is little storage 
space in Skibo, which means that groups 
such as AB who have a lot of equipment 
must store it in several different rooms and 
buildings.
A large auditorium type facility is 
another type of space a Student Union 
could add. The Skibo Ballroom, which
Thehc
photo by Robert Zuaman

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN
Uncle Sam 
Wants You, Again!
Greetings, your local induction center may soon be calling...
Each of us may be receiving our "greetings in the nottoo-distant future if any one of six house bills (see VIEWS) 
calling for peacetime registration makes its way through 
Congress.
Additional funds have already been asked for by the ad
ministration, and President Carter has appointed stand-by 
Selective Service Directors. All that is needed now is for the 
Congress to vote sufficient funds for the Selective Service, 
(an additional $2.5 million would be enough), and for the 
President to proclaim mass military registration.
Conscription or non-voluntary induction is an issue very 
much alive among this countrys decision-makers. Congress
men and the Pentagon claim that there is an immediate need 
for a peacetime Draft.
Why?
The draft restorationcampaign points the finger at fail
ure of the All-Volunteer Force (A-VF); they cite that A-VF 
was short by 10% of meeting recruitment goals in the last 
quarter of 1978. Members of the Senate and House Armed 
Services Committee responded with a solution to the prob
lem of declining U.S. military manpower a call for conscri
ption or, as Senator John Stennis (D-Ms.), Chairman of the 
senate committee, put it, "a fair and equitable military 
draft.
But....
A recent report from the Department of Defense stated 
these facts:
 Since the end of the draft, the active forces have remain
ed within 1.5% of congressional authorized levels.
 "... The quality of those serving on active duty person
nel and the average test scores of new recruits has not dec
lined as popularly believed but has markedly and steadily 
improved since the end of the draft. 
 Retention of enlisted personnel has increased under the 
A - VF well above pre- Vietnam rates.
 Discipline has shown a steady improvement.
 A-VF has offered better opportunities for women and mi
norities.
In addition, Representative Lee Asp in (D-Wi.) has poin
ted out that the number of people in uniform was 2,000 
greater at the end of 1978 than the military had budgeted 
for.
"The fact is that the volunteer military force is working 
extremely well," stated Milton Freidman, member of the 
Presidents Commission on A-VF, in his column in NEWS
WEEK (April 16, 1979).
In the TARTANS opinion, Freidmans explanation of 
why success was proclaimed as failure by knowledgeable 
people (Congresspersons, etc.) is extremely valid. The up
per echelon of the military has never been fuHy reconciled 
to the end of conscription...How much easier to press a but
ton and comanda Selective Service Administration to round 
up a specified number of bodies, willing or not. 
The TARTAN believes that these conflicting reports and 
also limited media coverage are warning signalsnot all is 
being told to the American public.
Further, the TARTAN supports the following ACLU 
statement. "Conscription should be the last resort of a na
tion facing imminent threat...The government has a duty to 
prove to the public that so drastic a step as conscription is 
required today. No such showing of national preservation 
has yet been made. 
A second and equally important issue is an alternative 
form of the draft known as "National Service-compulsory 
non-military servitude. It is based on channeling youth 
(men and women, age 18 and above) into various civilian 
jobs that pay sub si stance wages. The government would 
have the right to decide the where and what of the jobs. The 
advantages? Advocates of National Service say discipline, 
training, and jobs for young people.
The TARTAN opposes any proposal for a compulsory, 
non-military service on the grounds that this kind of system 
would amount to involuntary servitude, prohibited by the 
Thirteenth Amendment.
Professor Thomas Kerr of GSIA, who is also the state 
chairman of ACLU, will address these issues in a meeting 
scheduled for tomorrow afternoon, at 4 PM in DH 2210. We 
suggest that everyone attend this meeting.
Jean Pellegrini 
Editor-in-Chief
Letters
Support WRCTEditor,
I was quite disappointed in 
reading your article about WYEP 
in your April 10 issue that the list 
of public radio stations did not 
include WRCT. This image prob
lem is understandable, considering 
the number of listeners a 10-watt 
radio station reaches. This will 
not be this way much longer.
In June or so, WRCT should re
ceive approval of its new antenna 
from the FCC. Therefore, when 
people come back next year from 
summer vacation, there should be 
an antenna on top of Warner Hall. 
This means that within 4 miles of 
campus everyone should be able 
to receive WRCT in living stereo. 
This does not mean our program
ming will change. WRCT will still 
continue as an alternative to Pitts
burghs commercial stations. We 
will need the help of the campus 
community if we wish to continue 
transmitting free form program
ming. Next year over half of our 
staff will be seniors and grad stu
dents. This means that at a very 
pivotal point in the life of WRCTFM, a large portion of the staff 
will be taking off. Also, as part of 
reaching a wider audience, we 
would like to diversify our pro
gramming. Therefore, we will be 
needing a lot of new people to get 
areas of broadcasting.
If you would like to get invol
ved, our door is always open at 
room 46B in the basement of 
Skibo. Also, if youM like to make 
any comments about our pro
gramming, please feel free to drop 
me a line through the campus mail 
or give me a call at x2883 or 621- 
WRCT. We hope that next year, 
with our improved air signal and 
more diverse programming, we 
can provide a kind of radio that is 
unparalleled in the Pittsburgh 
area.
Bill Goold 
Program director, WRCT 
Nuclear Power
Editor:
It is fortunate for Frederic J. 
Siegel that the awards for the best
political column were given out 
before his article about . The 
Harrisburg Syndrome was publi
shed. If they werent, I am sure 
the judges would be forced to re
consider. Siegels latest effort 
shows that his mind is not in 
Washington but somewhere in the 
great beyond.
Instead of making a knowledgable statemant about nuclear 
power, as I presume he is on the 
staff to do, he comes across like 
another placardcarrying antinuclear zealot. His comments, 
without exception, are nothing 
but rhetoric and double talk. 
Phrases like a sword dipped in 
gasoline sounds nice but have no 
value past that. As a matter of 
fact, I defy anyone to give me an 
english translation of the articles 
next-to-the-last sentence. On 
those rare occasions when one can 
actually wade through Siegels 
prose, it is clear that his state
ments are baseless. He often men
tions how our government cant 
be trusted but, when he searches
TARTAN
 Volume 79April 17, 1979Number 28
Editor-in-Chief: 
Managing Editors:
Business Manager: 
Assistant Editor: 
News Editors:
Features Editor: 
FOLIO Editor: 
Entertainment Editor: 
Sports Editors:
Photography Editor: 
Art Director:
Jean Pellegrini Neil Adler Brian Byrnes Karen Stevens Mory Brenner Doug Kirsop Karen Ravets Sue Borg Lisa Amowitz Alan Spero Perry Colosimo Howard Turner Robert Zusman Tom Megalis
Assistant Entertainment Editor: Damon Burke
Copyright 1979 by the Carnegie-Mellon University TARTAN The Fditoiia! Board reserves the right to edit or 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication, f unded in part by the Student Govern 
ment of Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices Skibo 50; (412) 578 
2111 or 2112. Business Offices Skibo 52, (412) 578-2111ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

---------------------------------------------------

Lincoln Wolfenstein, University Professor, and Ray Brock, graduate student, both from the Physics Dept., alert the campus to the pos
sibility of peacetime military registration and draft.VIEWS
As the summer vacation draws 
near, Congress is beginning debate 
on an issue which could drastical
ly alter the plans of college-age 
people in this country. Should a 
number of representatives and 
senators prevail, college classes 
will not be the only thing students 
will be registering for in the fall-a 
peace time military registration 
and draft may be in effect then.
In January and February' six 
bills were introduced in the House 
and Senate calling for a revival of 
at least some aspects of the draft; 
we will discuss some of the parti
culars below. The point we want 
to stress immediately, however, is 
that there is not much time for 
campus debate. Hearings will most 
likely be held during the late 
spring and summer with the goal 
of the sponsors to have a registra
tion no later than next fall. It is 
our impression that students here 
(and indeed, students most every
where) are not aware that such 
possibilities are being discussed 
seriously and that time scales are 
as short as a few months.
Because the military stopped 
drafting men in 1973 and registra
tion ended in 1975 (when Con^ress^stoggedjfiindi^
pie in college today may never 
have considered conscription as 
a likely future possibility. Also.it 
is certainly not lost on our legisla
tors that todays college student 
has not had much contact with 
college students of the Sixties 
who had to think almost daily 
about the draft. As a result, we 
are sure that active anti-military 
thought is considered a thing of 
the past from which todays stu
dent is probably insulated. While 
large student outcry of the pro
portions seen in the 60s and early 
70s is not likely to occur, serious 
discussion among students should 
be taking place.
To that end we are planning to 
hold a meeting in 2210 Doherty 
Hall at 4:00, Wednesday after
noon, April 18. At that time the 
bills will be presented and re
viewed, and the legal implications 
of -a peace time draft will be dis
cussed by Professor Kerr of GSIA, 
State Chairman of the ACLU.
This would be a first opportunity 
for the needed campus discussion 
to which we have alluded.
We believe that the vast major
ity of students are not interested 
in joining the military (men and 
^women^Ther^fo^w^iopethat
the TARTAN, Student Senate, 
and other organizations on cam
pus will begin a discussion of just 
what may be ahead and that stu
dents will watch for information 
on seminars and meetings held by 
various organizations in the city.
The six bills that have been 
proposed are:
H. R. 23 Bennett of Florida
H. R. 1901 Montgomery of Mis
sissippi 
H. R. 2078 Wilson of Texas
H. R. 2206 McCloskey of Califor
nia, The National 
Service Act
S. 109 H. Byrd of Virginia
and Nunn of Georgia
S. 226 Morgan of North Car
olina
All but Wilsons bill require the 
President to begin registration at 
least by this fall. Montgomerys 
bill calls for induction for up to
200,000 men and women into the 
Ready Reserve and a lottery for 
all 19 year-olds. Bennetts bill 
puts the Selective Service in the 
Department of Defense. Bennets 
and Morgans bills both require 
modification of the Privacy Act 
allowing the Selective Service 
access to information from high 
schools, colleges, IRS, Social
Security, etc.
Note that in Bennets bill this 
means that The Department of 
Defense would have this access. 
McCloskeys bill provides for one 
of four options: 2 years military 
service; 6 months active duty and 
5Vi years reserve duty; one year 
forced civilian service or taking a 
chance at the lottery. There 
would be no conscientious objec
tion under this bill and an incred
ible bureaucracy created to man
age the activities and whereabouts 
of millions of inductees. Certain
ly, this proposal would require 
overhaul in our notion of selec
tive service and probably our 
interpretation of the Thirteenth 
Amendment.
Our suggestions on this issue 
are these:
1. Attend seminars or talks on the 
subject;
2. Read all you can and tell your 
friends;
3. Think about what happens to 
YOU in light of renewed conscrip
tion for everyone (there will never 
again be student deferrments!);
4. Consider the change in our so
ciety that would result from the 
power of the military over every 
young persons life;
5. Recognize that this is serious 
and has all been done so far with a 
minimum of media exposure 
(Why do you suppose this is?);
6. Write your senators and repre
sentatives telling them how you 
feel about the draft;
7. If you are unwilling to cooper
ate with a revived draft, let this be 
known.
For those of you who think 
you might qualify for conscien
tious objector (CO) statusstart 
now. Write your thoughts out 
under the advice of someone who 
knows the draft law. Be public in 
your beliefsin essence, create a 
record that you can point to 
should you need to later on. We 
can direct you to people who can 
help.
College students of the present 
generation have generally not 
been personally faced with the 
prospect of drastic government 
or military intrusion. We have 
tried in the above to alert this 
campus community to the need 
for some sort of political response 
to this attempt at subverting your 
freedoms. It may not be too late 
for strong protest, however little 
or no response could mean that 
there may be a military future for 
many of you.more Letters
for an example, he has to go back 
nearly twenty years (Viet Nam).
Of course, it really wouldnt be 
a complete no nuke article if 
the author didnt overstate the 
dangers of nuclear power. Al
though I did expect the out of 
control bubble story and the 
China Syndrome line, the
apocolypse argument was new 
to me. The facts that were relayed 
to us all during the crisis by 
Messrs. Hedries and Denton of the 
NRC should have convinced 
everyone the chances of the 
bubble expanding and the core 
melting were negligible. But, some 
would rather scream slogans than
listen to reason.
Siegel closes with a statement 
of concern for the future. I am 
concerned, also. I am concerned 
because the world has precious 
little energy available to it and 
some people want it to have less 
than that. The fact is that, while 
thousands have died in the mining
of coal, no one has ever died at a 
nuclear power plant. In the face 
of this, why dont people picket 
the mines in western Pennsylvania 
and West Virginia demanding that 
they be closed? The reason is that 
we need coal as an energy source. 
We need nuclear power, too.
The article ends, mercifully,
with a question that is considered 
simple by the author. Actually, 
the only thing that is simple here 
is Frederic J. Siegel.
Wesley Seeley 
Letters to the Editor wfll be ac
cepted only if they are signed. 
Names will be withheld upon re
quest.
Scotch ~n~ Soda
World Premier
TAPWATERCOLORS
1979 Spring Musical
tonight april 17 thru sat 21
students 2.50 adults 3.50 skibo ballroom
skibo desk doors open 7:30

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4TARTANApril 17, 1979
CMU Express
Thursday, April 19Friday, April 20
5.00 PMOpening Ceremony9:00 AMBuggy racesTECH ST.
Midway and rides open12.00 PMMidway and rides open
5:30Jazz EnsembleTENTInternational FairTENT
6.30"Close Encounters of the Third Kind"1:00Egg TossIM FIELD
DH 2210Arts and Crafts Fair opens
8:00Michael MarlinTENT2:00Relay races
Scotch n SodaBALLROOM"Close Encounters..."DH 2210
9.00-12DiscoTENT3:00Frisbee contestIM FIELD
9.00"Close Encounters of the Third Kind"5:00"Close Encounters..."DH 2210
DH 22106:00Rhythm KingsTENT
10.30FireworksIM FIELDArts and Crafts Fair closes
11.30"Close Encounters of the Third Kind"8:00Dave Brubeck ConcertCARNEGIE
DH 2210MUSIC HALL
12.00Midway ClosesScotch n SodaBALLROOM
9.00Square DanceTENT
11.30"Close Encounters..."DH 2210
12:00 AMMidway Closed
Saturday, April 21
9:00 AM 
12.00 PM 
1:00
1:30
2:00
3:00
5:00
.00
10.00
Buggy Races (Finals) TECH ST. 
Midway & rides Open 
Arts & Crafts Festival Opens
11.30
Pie-eating contest 
Gong Show 
Plank Joust 
Tug-O-War 
Dixieland Music 
Arts & Crafts Fair closes 
"Blazing Saddles" 
Scotch n Soda 
"Blazing Saddles" 
SDC Semi Formal 
Awards Ceremony 
Carnival Closes 
"Blazing Saddles"
IM FIELD 
TENT 
DOHERTY 
LAWN
DOH. LAWN 
TENT
DH 2210
BALLROOM
DH 2210
TENT
THISTLE
HALL
DH 2210
W^ST
CMU Profs. Receive Guggenheim Awards
by Doug Kirsop
Dr. John Nagle, professor of physics and 
biology, and Dr. Franklin Toker, associate 
professor of architecture were awarded 
Fellowships by the John Simon Guggen
heim Memorial Foundation last week.
^ The two professors are among a group 
of 291 recepients chosen from a field of 
2974 applicants. The Foundation, which 
this year distributed almost $4.7 million in 
fellowship grants, offers Fellowships to fur
ther the development of scholars and ar
tists by assisting them to engage in research 
in any field of knowledge and artistic crea
tion in any of the fine arts, including 
music.
Nagle, who will be spending the next 
year in San Francisco, explained that his 
Fellowship will enable him to work on 
his research for an entire year, rather than 
the one-semester term of his present paid 
sabbatical.
Nagle will be doing biophysics research 
in much the same area as Dr. Peter Mit
chell, a 1977 Nobel laureate. He will be 
studying membrane biophysics in an ef
fort to determine how ATP, the basic
energy source for all life, is synthesized. 
He and his collegues have determined that 
the membrane of the mitochondria in 
animals, and the chbroplast in plants, 
can build up both electrical and chemical 
potentials, providing enough energy to get 
the ATP across the bi-layer of the mem
brane, but the problem of how this physi
cally occurs then arises. Nagle has sugges
ted that some of the bonds that hold the 
bi-layer of the membrane together may 
serve as proton wires, or pathways from 
one side of the membrane to the other. Ac
cording to Nagle, this pathway has much 
the same structure as that of ice, about 
which much more is known. He is hoping 
to apply some of this knowledge to his re
search.
He is going to California to study the 
halobacteria rhodopsin, a protein he called 
a biologists dream because it is small, 
relatively pure, and appears to have the 
sole function of pumping protons. He 
hopes that once the workings of the rho
dopsin are understood, they can be applied 
to more complicated life forms.
Toker will make two trips to Italy in 
the coming year, but will spend much of 
his time here on campus. He is hoping to 
complete a two or three volume work to 
be entitled Florence Cathedral in the Light 
of Excavation: An Archeological-History 
of the First 1000 Years. From 1969 to 
1974 he ran an excavation under the 
Cathedral of Florence, which is the longest, 
most costly excavation ever on the Medie
val period. Toker explained that although 
he has written about a dozen articles in 
English and Italian on the dig, this book 
will be a complete guide and history of the 
excavation.
This excavation is unique, he said, 
because one can see 16 centuries in a 
single spectrum. At the very bottom is 
a Roman house. Proceeding towards the 
surface, he said there is a graveyard and a 
series of churches.
His trips to Italy will be to finish cata
loging the 13,000 p:eces he has collected 
from the site. He is using a computer here 
on campus to write his book, and hopes to 
present an exhibit of artifacts when he is 
finished.
SDC Space
by Mindie Jo Snyder
A variety of things were reported and 
upcoming events discussed at the Student 
Dorm Council meeting Sunday, April 8. 
The SDC/Residence Life Flagstaff Hill party slated for Saturday, April 7 has been 
moved to Saturday, April 14. All dorm 
students were encouraged to attend this 1 
fun filled afternoon with entertainment 
and refreshments. Hill VP. Mindie Jo Snyder reported that the Hill Sub-Council 
Study Break on Tuesday, March 20, went 
very well. Many people showed up at Donner and Hamerschlag to munch and shoot 
the breeze. Ronald Jean Louis was kind enough to offer some live music on his accordian. Morewood VP. Cheryl Schellenberg reported that she plans to move to 
Tech House in the fall, thereby leaving that 
vice presidential position vacant. New elec- ^ 
tions for this office will be held on a date 
determined by President Jim Balsom. The 
President also reported that the executive 
board and the parlimentarian will attend an 
all day meeting May 5 at Duquesne Univer
sity initiated by the National Association 
of College and University Residence Halls 
(NACURH).
Committee reports went as follows: 
The SDC booth needs help from dorm res
idents and anyone interested should con
tact chairman Jim Foster at ex. 4197. Bill J 
Reiner reported that the buggy had an ac
cident during the latest free roll; the driver 
was bruised and taken to the hospital. SDC 
will pay for any costs beyond what her in
surance covers. Attempts will be made to 
effectively repair the buggy before Friday. 
Fire and Safety was asked to check into 
the possibility of installing security centrex 
phones, like those in Morewood and Donner, in other dorms.
Spring Carnival posters will be up for 
SDC events and the Gong Show. Mindie Jo 
Snyder made a motion that council ap
prove a contract that all organizations must 
sign if they wish to use the tent during 
Spring Carnival. This motion carried.
SIX) has created an ad hoc Vending Ser
vices Committee which will be chaired by 
Jeff Pitchford, ex. 4304. The committee 
will investigate all problems with food and 
laundry machines in the dorms. Particular 
attention will be paid to the laundry ma
chine situation.
Because of the Easter holiday, the next 
SDC meeting will be held Sunday, April 15 
at 9:00PM instead of 7:00 PM, in order tc 
give those people going home a bettei 
chance to make the meeting.
Food Service 
Plans Changed
continued from page 1
wood. It will be built around the existing ( 
beverage counter. A Deli Annex is also 
being added. It is to be located in the 
current Vegetarian Room, and will sell deli 
items and snacks to stock your room with.
What is now the Morewood cafeteria 
will be open from 4:30 to 7 PM under the 
name of Dinners Unlimited. A flat rate fee 
and unlimited seconds will still characterize 
this facility.
The Grill and More-Pizza will remain 
essentially the same.
If you have questions,comments,suggestions,or criticisms about FOOD SERVICE,

---------------------------------------------------

April 17, 1979 I AR I ANPage 5
Laundry Improvements Planned
by Dena Santoro
Carnegie-Mellon students can expect 
some changes in laundry services without 
an increase in laundry token fees for 
academic year 197980, according to 
Auxiliary Housing Services Director Bill 
Dillon.
Dillon said that because CMU owns the 
laundry service and charges only 60% of 
the normal coin-operated laundry rates, 
most funds from the machines are used to 
maintain the present machines. The other 
money is spent to replace machines. Ap
proximately ten machines are replaced 
each year
First priority in the new services will be 
the installation of several stackable dryers 
in the Hammerschlag laundry room. These 
dryers will replace older single dryers, 
which will be replaced by new washers. 
Hammerschlag is tops on the A.H.S. list be
cause it must serve the new apartments and
special interest houses which will open on 
the Hill next year. Currently, Schlag serves
both Boss and McGill Halls, in addition to 
students in that dormitory.
Long-range plans for the CMU laundry 
facilities include two new laundry rooms in 
Morewood Gardens. There has been some 
concern over safety in the present facilities, 
which are located in the basement of D 
Tower. Plans include a new room to be lo
cated in the AB Tower connecting area, 
which is scheduled to be completed in time 
for the 198081 school year. The second 
room will be located in the C-D Tower 
connecting area, with completion of that 
area set for 1981. The current facilities will 
be retained as overflow areas.
Dillon also stated that the laundry areas 
are scheduled to be painted this summer, 
so that students can expect a nicer atmo
sphere to greet them.Campus laundry equipment will be replaced next year.
Parking Committee Examines Problems
by Linda Dickerson
On Wednesday, April 11, CMU newlyestablished Parking Committee conducted 
its first open session to allow students, 
faculty, and staff to express their com
plaints or suggestions about the parking 
situation on campus.
Recent controversy concerning whether 
senior staff or junior faculty members 
should be assigned the limited number of 
available parking spaces in the Baker Hall 
lot incited the university to create a 
Parking Committee. This committee, 
consisting of two staff members, two 
faculty members, and two students, will 
also deal with snow removal problems, 
reports on the insufficient tagging and 
towing of cars, accounts of lot vandalism, 
and criticisms about inadequate parking 
facilities.
Sylvia Austin, Director of Parking, 
and Bill Dillon, Director of Auxiliary 
Services, explained that both the Morewood and Fine Arts lots were recently 
expanded in response to the increasing 
need for campus parking. Nevertheless, 
many students still experience difficulties
finding spaces, for the high cost of permits 
prohibits these students from reserving a 
permanent space.
Price of permits range from $60 per 
year at Morewood to $195 per year at 
Baker Hall. Despite these substantial fees, 
Ms. Austin maintained that the university 
is not profiting from selling the spaces, 
because the money collected must be 
channeled toward maintenance, snow re
moval, security and taxes.
Furthermore, when one considers that 
the cost to construct each new parking 
space exceeds $1,500, one realizes that it 
takes a long while for the university to 
recoup its expenditures for the new lots. 
The total cost to expand the Fine Arts lot 
reached $8,800.
Other universtiy expenses for parking 
result from the recurring vandalism. For 
example, the wooden gate at the entrance 
to Skib lot must be replaced on an average 
of five times a week at the cost of $20 each 
time. Mr. Dillon elaborated,' It (vandaliam) is certainly something we think about 
all the time.
Currently the University is not planning
jyiiimiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiimmiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiwiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiwiiiiiiyi
ORDER YOUR CMU OR CIT RING
to augment existing parking or reduce 
costs.Efforts in the future will be directed 
toward improvements and the creation of 
new spaces, concluded Mr. Dillon.
Grant awarded
The American Council, of Learned Soci
eties, in a national competition, has awar
ded 66 grats-in-aid to recent recipients of 
the Ph.D. for the preparation of their 
doctoral dissertations for publication or in 
special cases for research leading to a first 
substantial publication.
From over 150 applicants, grants were 
made to 24 women and 42 men, including 
John S. Bushnell, CMU assistant professor 
of History. Dr. Bushnells research project 
concerns the Military revolution in Russia 
from 1905-1907.
The program is made possible by a grant 
from the National Endowment for the 
Humanities. The American Council of 
Learned Societies is a private non-profit 
federation of 42 national scholarly associa
tions devoted to the advancement of hu
manistic studies in all fields of learning.
TUESDAY. 
APRIL 17
NOW WITH ALL 
COLORS OF 
BIRTHSTONES! !
THE ORIGINAL 
CMU RING
IHSitSSPlSI
m
Customize your ring to your 
personality. Choose from the 
many Dieges & Clust options 
available: gleaming precious 
metals, sparkling stones, 
exciting colors, bold designs.
WEDNESDAY 
APRIL 18
SPECIAL! ! 
$10 OFF 
WHITE 
PRECIUM
A SYMBOL OF 
ACHIEVEMENT
A DIEGES & CLUST REPRESENTATIVE WILL BE IN THE 
BOOKSTORE TO SHOW SAMPLES AND HELP YOU SELECT 
YOUR RING ON TUESDAY & WEDNESDAY 10 a.m. - 4 p.m.
$10 DEPOSIT
Senate Report
by Constance Smith
At its April 10 meeting, Senate passed a 
motion to change the order of the day, 
moving the Points of Discussion period 
from the end to the beginning of the meet
ing. This time is set aside for anyone 
attending the meeting to introduce topics 
of discussion to the floor.
It was decided that the Academic Af
fairs committee will look into tenure and 
its relationship to academic considerations.
The Finance committee accepted a bud
get of 100 dollars from the International 
Students Organization for the remainder 
of the year. This group received supported 
recognition at the March 20 Senate meet
ing, but there is a possibility that the 
groups status will be changed to that of a 
service organization.
Student feedback on the allocation of 
the activities fee has been a major issue at 
recent Senate meetings. The general Cam
pus and Information committee will be 
checking into methods of doing this. They 
will also be looking into renovations of the 
weight room.
Amendments were made to the Con
stitution and By-laws that will change the 
filling and status of the Treasurer of the 
Student Government. The office is now to 
be elected by petition of the Senate. The 
Treasurer is now also an ex-officio member 
of Senate.
The CIT seat left vacant by the election 
of Scott Sibley as Student Government 
President was filled by petition. Three 
candidates presented petitions, and the 
seat was filled by Steve Hrinya.
APO Scholarship
The Kent D. Shaffer Memorial Scholar
ship is awarded annually to the applicant 
whose activities and involvement best ex
emplify the ideals of leadership, friendship, 
and service. It is in no way related to acad
emic standings or financial need. To apply 
for the Kent D. Shaffer Scholarship, sim
ply ask at the information booth in Skibo 
for an application. Competition for the 
scholarship is open to any undergraduate 
student currently attending CMU who is 
neither a pledge nor a brother of Kappa 
Chapter, Alpha Phi Omega. It is sponsored 
by Alpha Phi Omega.
Miller
continued from page 1
holds approximately 600 people, is the 
largest room on campus. This single facility 
limits opportunities to bring in quality 
speakers or bands, according to Miller. 
Carnegie Hall can be used for such events 
as Greek Sing, but Miller said that a rock 
concert would be out of the question. He 
summed up his feelings about a Student 
Union by saying, It really irks me that 
students here dont have a place to get 
together.
If you have a complaint, a question, or 
a suggestion, there are very few things 
Senate cant do something about, Miller 
said. All you have to do is contact one of 
your Senators, or attend a Tuesday evening 
(7PM) Senate meeting in the Wherrrett 
Room. Skibo.
222
call the FOOD SERVICE DIRECTORS HOT LINE, X2127, Monday 5pm-6pm.I

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6TARTANApril 17, 1979
NAVY OFFICER. YOU GET RESPC YOU GET THE SI
toll free800-342-5855.) Early responsibility. 
It's what being a Navy Officer is all about.
A lot of big corporations offer you a big 
title. But how many offer a young college 
graduate a really important job?
As a Navy Officer, you dont have 
to wait to do a job that counts. We give 
you one as soon as youve earned your 
commission. A job with responsibility for 
the lives of others, and for millions of dollars 
of complex equipment. A job that requires 
skill and leadership. A job that Navy Officers 
have been doing proudly for 200 years.
If thats the kind of job youre looking 
for, speak to a Navy recruiter. Youll find 
that Navy Officers have unequalled 
opportunities in fields like Nuclear Power, 
Aviation, and Engineering.
Or call toll free 800-841-8000. (In Georgia,
Camp ussuPreCFrp oSo
INFORMATION CENTER
P.O. Box 2000, Pelham Manor, N.Y. 10803
? Send me information on Career Opportunities in the Navy (0G).
(Area Code)
NAME.
(Please Print)
CITYSTATE
DATE OF
$ College Graduation
?GPA_________
Birth
tUniversity. 
CN 4/9
CMU's Professor of Design, Arnold Banks, has been awarded the Type Directors Club Medal.
the Carnegie-Mellon campus, and he is one 
of the few American calligraphers listed in 
in the international publication, Whos, 
Who in Graphic Art.
A faculty member here since 1960, 
Bank has also taught at the Art Students 
League in New York City, Cooper Union, 
the Brooklyn Museum Art School, Pratt 
Institute and at Columbia University. He
served as art director for Time magazines 
promotion department from 1941 to 1947. 
From 1954 to 1957 he was a Senior Fulbright Fellow teaching at the Royal College 
of Art in London, England. Bank has lec
tured widely and exhibited his work on 
alphabetic calligraphies in one-man and 
group shows throughout this country and 
Europe.
Bank Receives Medal
Arnold Bank, internationally known 
calligrapher and CMU professor of design, 
has been awarded the prestigious Type Di
rectors Club Medal in recognition of his 
outstanding contributions to excellence in 
printing and typography.
The medal is awarded periodically by 
the New York based Type Directors Club, 
as organization established in 1945 to 
provide the means for inspiration, stimula
tion, and research in typography and 
related fields of the graphic arts. Bank, 
who is a charter member of the Type Di
rectors Club, is only the sixth person to 
receive this award. He will receive the me
dal at a luncheon in his honor on April 10 
at the Doral Inn in New York City.
Bank is an excellent teacher who has 
the ability to apply broadbased knowledge
of the humanities and social sciences to 
the in-depth study of letter forms, said 
CMU design department head Joseph 
Ballay. We are most pleased that he has 
received this well deserved honor.
In addition to his achievements as a 
teacher and scholar, Banks distinguished 
career has spanned the fields of publishing, 
advertising, printing, and architectural 
lettering. His many accomplishments in
clude designing the lettering for the 
inscription on the stone memorial to John
D. Rockefeller, Jr. in Rockefeller Plaza, the 
editorial lettering for the serialization of 
Ernest Hemingways The Old Man and the 
Sea in Life magazine, and the masthead 
used for the past 40 years by the weekly 
publication, Printing News. His lettering 
appears on many plaques and exteriors on

---------------------------------------------------

FEATURES
Buggy Fever: A Unique experience for everyone
H ................... ....... -...............Intense effort is etched on the faces of these pushers as they begin the first exchange.
Speed entices drivers
by Cherie A. Hodge
Thirteen minutes and it will all be over., 
at least for this year. Ten minutes till you 
race, so you climb into your buggy and . 
wait as the rest of the team hooks the safe
ty harness to the frame. Everyone scurries 
around putting on last-minute touches; 
someone taps the front of your face screen 
and you wrestle an arm free to take the 
mouthguard and shove it into your mouth. 
The pushers wish you luck, remind you to 
be careful (to them, drivers are expendable 
but buggies are not), and depart for their 
hills.
Your heat is announced. Four support 
members carry you out to the starting line 
and hold you above the pavement. You 
race through the course in your mind: 
where are the big holes? where exactly are 
the flaggers? which crack in the roadbed 
starts the turn? you smile at the driver in 
the next lane, who returns the greeting. 
Both of you met last night to talk over 
how you were planning to take the course. 
Sure hope it prevents an injury. 
Suddenly the gun sounds and you are drop
ped onto Tech Street. Over the rumble of 
wheels on asphalt and the screaming of the 
crowd, you can hear the hill one mans *
strained breathing as you try to Keep the 
buggy on a straight course. Then the ex
change, and you glimpse a crowd of feet 
and ankles as you brace yourself for the 
shove to free-roll.
Now its really up to you. As a unit, you 
and your buggy battle the potholes as you 
coax all the speed you can out of the 
course. Crossing the road, down to the 
monument; your flagger gives you the all 
clear sign and you hold your breath as you 
start the turn. A controlled combination of 
steering and leaning swings you around 
close to the haybales and you see the hill 
three man waiting for you up ahead. You 
decelerate rapidly until you feel you must 
be standing still and about to drift back
wards when you hear feet catching up with 
you and you start to ascend. The pace 
seems so slow after the thrill of freeroll 
and suddenly its the last hill. The suns in 
your eyes and the ankles and feet are 
screaming for you to hurry. The finish line 
races toward you. If only there were pedals 
on this thing! Finally over the line, a tired 
body drops to the pavement behind you 
and support people carry you down for the 
final brake test. Finally youre back in the 
tent with the whole crew and asking, 
howd we do?
Buggy fever is a unique experience, 
especially for the pusher, the guy that 
moves the buggy uphill. January brings 
about conversation in turn stirs memories 
of the previous years race. For most push
ers, the blood pumps faster during such 
talk. Its too cold to run outside, but Baker 
Hall provides a long corridor to begin train
ing in during the coldest months of winter. 
A little of the excitement can be worked 
off running late at night in the hall.
March usually brings drier weather in 
which the buggies can be brought out. 
Touching the push bar for the first time, 
most rookies are ready to tell you what a 
piece of cake its going to be. One try 
proves the contrary. March being a cold 
month, it can be rough. Breathing the 
cold air bums from the inside out. Getting 
loose is hard and pulled mucles are more 
predominant in this month.
Conditions improve as April arrives. 
Competition for each hill peaks because
Pushers ignite buggies
This piece originally appeared in Mechanix 
Illustrated magazine. Susan Case, a 1978 
graduate of CMU is a StaJJ Associate in the
CMU Public Relations Department. 
by Susan Case
Going downhill at high speeds may not 
seem exceptional to the everyday driver. 
But put him flat on his stomach and give 
him a cats-eye view of the road whizzing 
by half a foot away and hes got some 
hairy adventures ahead.
Thats what students at Carnegie-Mellon 
Univ. have been doing since 1920 at the 
schools annual spring carnival. And 
theyve been loving every minute of it.
The buggies, which started out as rolling 
crates and cast-iron bathtubs on wheels, 
now are built with fiberglass and light
weight steel or aluminum frames. The rigs 
are made by CMU campus organizations 
(mostly fraternities) and sometimes cost as 
much as $5,000 each. Each buggy has a 
large T-bar tailfin thats used to push it up 
the five uphill runs in the 1-mi. course 
through the citys Schenley Park.
Predictably , the buggies are on the 
small side, with vital stats of 24 in. or less 
in height from ground to dome tip 
(including 6 in. of ground clearance). 
Wheelbase is 4 ft. and total length 5 ft. 8 
in. The average belly-buggy driver whos 5 
ft. 5 in. tall and weighs 100 lbs., steers the 
buggys wheels with hand levers and stops
the rig with disc brakes. All controls are up 
front. With the physical requirements being 
what they are to keep weight, resistance 
and friction low, its little wonder why 
many CMU coeds take on the driving 
chores.
The wheels on each buggy were original
ly 24-in. bicycle wheels but theyve been 
replaced by 12-in. chemically-coated rub
ber, which retains heat. The wheels are 
heated before race time to insure greater 
speeds.
Each team consists of six students--five 
pushers and one driver. The pushers steer 
the buggies uphill as fast and as straight as 
they can. But on downhill runs, the drivers 
are on their own.
Buggies are judged not only on speed 
but on design. Judges, chosen for their 
knowledge of materials and technology, 
rate each buggy for overall appearance, 
mechanical workings and innovations. For 
a buggy to win the design trophy, it must 
finish in the top half of the contenders, 
showing its mechanics are useful and not 
simply for show.
Although the entire race lasts just 2Vi 
min., many months go into building, strate
gy and practice sessions. And just weeks af
ter the race is over, it all starts anew.
Reprinted from Mechanix Illustratedby Pete Kullen
Ive tried to tell people about the race 
but they cant understand the Sweepstakes. 
Its special, but the excitement runs only as 
deep as an individuals personal involve
ment. To those who have had buggy 
fever, one does not have to explain the 
late nights in Baker Hall or the early morn
ing free-rolls. Normal people (those who 
have not been touched with the fever) look 
upon the race and its participants as being 
beyond help. After all, who pushes a cart 
up a hill so it can roll down the other side?
the push teams will be chosen soon. Every 
time up a hill becomes more important. 
The best team must be composed. In the 
end, someone will be disappointed because 
there are only five places on each team.
The first day of Sweepstakes bring out 
the worst cases of the nerves, butterflies, 
shakes, or whatever you call the nervous 
anticipation. This is your time. You have 
neglected homework and classes to talk 
about it. Training late at night and early in 
the morning, race day seemed like it would 
never arrive.
It is here. The count-down dwindles. 
You pull the bar close to your chest wait
ing for the buggy to be set down. Explod
ing with the gun you drive your teammate 
up the hill. Waiting for you, the hill two 
pusher tenses as the buggy approaches. He 
hopes for a lead. Taking the bar, he accel
erates up and over the hill and recklessly 
hurls the buggy into the Roll. The hill 
three man watches the turn as the cars 
speed through the turn. The timing of his 
pick-up can mean as much as a second on 
the hill. The fourth pusher watches, hoping 
to be the first to get his hands on the push 
bar. His hill is long and requires good speed 
as well as strength. As the transition from 
hill to flat occurs, the hill five pusher, his 
back almost turned to the finish line, 
shouts encouragement to his teammate, 
The fastest exchange of the race opens the 
long sprint to the finish line. For some 
pushers this is the last time on the course 
until next spring. The six finalists have one 
more race on Saturday. GOOD LUCK!!

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8TARTANApril 17, 1979
An observer looks at the buggy phenomenon
by Carol Jacobsen
Before I start, Id like to say that this 
article is personal opinion, based on my 
own experiences with the tradition at CMU 
of Sweepstakes, commonly known as bug
gy. I do not claim to be an expert on 
the subject, and rather than do research to 
become one, I chose to write this article 
for all those people, whether involved in 
buggy or not, who can appreciate the 
opinion of an observer who finds the whole 
subject interesting, and at times more than 
a little humorous.
Its been said that buggy is no fun unless 
you are in a Fraternity or a buggy organiza
tion. WELL... Im in neither. I think that a 
lot of interest comes from learning just a 
little. Then you get hooked. You hear 
about the technology, the secrecy, the 
dedication. By then, Id say that even if 
you dont know a thing, youd be interes
ted enough to have a great time at races. If 
you are lucky enough to know a little more 
of the behind the scenes work, and get an 
impression of whats going on, the excite
ment has got you forever. On the other 
hand, if you remain an observer, youll al
so start to wonder if ANYTHING is impor
tant enough to get up at 5:00 AM when its 
cold. And arent they exagerating just a lit
tle bit about the technologies of their 
buggies?
Well, Im still wondering. I guess thats 
where my observations stop, because Ill 
never be able to answer your questions or 
mine concerning that subject because of 
the CLOAK AND DAGGER. Is all that se
crecy necessary? Who knows, (they do I 
guess). In any case, Its no joke, and its real
ly there. Buggy people are very concerned 
with it, especially with girls who might 
slip and even with their own members 
who might talk when theyre drunk. Its 
been argued that its all a psych-out tactic, 
and that may be part of the game. But I 
guarantee you / never found out anything, 
(not that Id tell guys). But I dont think 
anyone could fail to see the humour in my 
best friend being permitted to look in a 
carefully guarded buggy box outside Mar
garet Morrison to find its members playing 
cards and drinking beer in the empty in
side.
Dear Dad,
Im sorry that I got three Rs and two 
Ds. But we won Buggy.
Love, Your Son
Dont fool yourself into thinking that 
the buggies dont require a lot of time. A 
great deal of effort goes into the final pro
duct, and more than a few QPAs have suf
fered...badly. I guess when you combine a 
challenging problem, pride in your organi
zation, athletics, secrecy, and throw in the 
element of competition, how could you be 
immune to the fever if youre working on 
it? Yeah, but how does your girlfriend 
feel? A great many humorous hours were 
spent listening to those girlfriends com
plaints.
Dear Ann Landers,
I think that there is something seriously 
wrong with my boyfriend. In the spring, 
when a young mans fancy is supposed to 
turn to thoughts of love, his turn to buggy. 
He is out every night at 11:00. He goes out 
at 5:00 AM on weekends. He goes so far as 
to wear its name on his chest. Will he have 
it tatooed on his arm next? How can I help 
but think that there is something seriously 
wrong with our relationship? He will not 
let me near my competition, and I think he 
is sleeping with it. How can I compete with 
her sleek fiberglass body and firm 
wheels? I dont want to lose him to a 
gy who will do it with anyone.
Sign me,
Losing a Lover
All joking aside, around Carnival time, 
there are a lot of people spending alot of 
time on buggy. Regardless of designing the 
buggy itself, push teams arent made in 
day, nor drivers experts after one freeroll. 
Did you ever wonder what its like to 
drive? Sometimes people look at me when 
I ask that question with a look like you 
gotta be crazy. But I know some people 
who drive, and it certainly sounds like a 
thrill. Those buggies can travel. Id do it. 
Youd certainly get a different view of 
the race (maybe asphalt face first). I think 
a driver summed up the emotion perfectly 
when she said,  When you were little, 
didnt you ever push your bike all the 
way up a long, long hill, just so that youcould ride it as fast as you possibly could 
down it again? Personally, Im not sure 
that the whole event is completely safe. 
There are lots of precautions, sure, like* 
brake tests, sweeping the course, etc. and*
so forth. But theandBuggy Vocabulary Test
a. an obscure sexual excersize 
* b. an intramural event
course is a mess, anu ^ 
people working on buggy have been known * 1) Freeroll 
to take risks to improve the chances of * a an eariy
winning. And really, driving a buggy at * service 
high speed , face first, with two other bug- b. a social event with the bums of Pittsgies on the course isnt exactly that easy, ^.burgh
guess that makes it more exciting, but * c. the next best thing to being there 
wonder sometimes. But then, if youve got * d. an integral part of perfecting the 
the fever... By the way, if youre not *roll of the buggy, charting its technical 
really into buggy, dont judge the excite- ^progress, required for the drivers to race, 
ment by those who are. About now they *and held at 5 AM on weekends. % 
probably havent had enough sleep... *
Theyre worried if theyll do everything in 2)Push tjce
time for race day, and theyre generally ir- * 
ritable. Work continues on buggy up until *
and during races. The buggy will probably | c a rumWe be(ween fraternitites
be in a bunch of pieces the night after * d a chance tQ jce> shape up and
prelim, heats, and theres always prep, work . r , , ,, . . _f  , , *take times of pushers held at night onbefore the race. (Thats what they were * , ,, \ ... , C weekdayssupposed to be doing in the buggy boxes
outside Maggie Murph).
You have probably gathered from this 
article that I really enjoy everything to do 
with buggy. The point is that, even as an 
observer, you can and do get psyched, long 
before race day. Buggy can be for every
one. SO read the papers, read the predic
tions, get psyched and be there. And to all 
of you participating, best of luck, with 
special thanks and a Go For It from me 
to you know who.
3) Brake tests
Sunday morning religious a seeing if y0ur motorcyle will move if^.
you drive it with the brakes on
b. a technical elective
c. an ASME happy hour
d. part of the safety regulations
4) Buggy meetings
a. a chance to exchange buggy secrets
b. student senate
c. the new spiritual group on campus
***tt*******d. discuss the rules and regulations of* 
the races *
5) Design competition
a. a beauty contest
b. CIA meeting in the gym
c. introduction to Design at CMU
d. Which buggy will win for 
design
the best*. * *# sL* >1/ v!/ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ T* ^ ^ vl/ J ^ ^ ^ >1# X* suJf-T* ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ip ip ip ip ^p ^ ^p ^ ^p ^p ip ^ ip ip ^
Roads cause accidents
by Doug Kirsop
Weve had way too many accidents 
this year, and all of them have been direct
ly or indirectly caused by potholes, said 
Dave Lamont, Sweepstakes Safety Chair
man.
He explained that accidents are directly 
caused by potholes when a buggy hits one. 
This usually results in a bent axle, accord
ing to Lamont. However, a pothole can 
also break an axle, and/or cause the driver 
to lose control of the buggy. Lamont said 
that Beta and Pilam have had accidents as a 
direct result of potholes this Spring.
Potholes can indirectly cause accidents 
when drivers steer to avoid them. This can
result in a collision, both with stationary 
objects or other buggys.
Lamont also said the City of Pittsburgh 
patched many of the bad portions of the 
course, but the patches are so rough that 
they are almost as bad as the holes, espec
ially as far as causing the driver to lose 
control is concerned.
Some drivers have expressed concern 
over the curve at the top of Panther 
Hollow. Lamont explained that the hay 
bales are primarily to slow the buggy 
down, which they have always done. 
He also pointed out that although there 
have been several accidents this year, no 
drivers have been seriously injured. , ,
RE-UP NOW FOR THE NEW COMPUTERIZED FOOD SERVICE SYSTEM - FALL 79

---------------------------------------------------

April 17, 1979-TAR I AN-Page 9
Fraternity buggy chairman talks about the race
by Rich Kozar
Each spring, Carnegie-Melion sheds 
its ivy-covered aloofness and jazzes up 
the campus with a festive weekend known 
as Spring Carnival. The atmosphere rivals 
Mardi-Gras, with banners booths, rides, 
and dancing in the streets, along with a 
traditional madness began during Andrew 
Carnegies day--the Buggy Race. What is a 
Buggy Race? Better yet, what is a buggy? 
And why does it all matter? All relevant 
questions, and I hope to answer at least 
two out of the three.
Buggies are propelled by people who 
are appropriately call pushers. The insane, 
(dont let them know I said this), people 
who maneuver these things are called 
drivers. And why do these people bother 
with all this nonsense? Because they 
organize and race each other, you know, in 
buggy races.
Now Im only a first-year sophomore at 
CMU, so I cant really answer the most im
portant question--why does it all matter? 
(Buggy, that is.) Thats why Ive asked Pi
Kappa Alpha Buggy Chairman/Driver,
senior Dave Fiedler, also my roommate, to 
give me some insight into the phenomena 
of buggy. I need to know what all the 
hoopla is about, since Im spending many 
bizarre hours training to push these
contraptions. And I sure would appreciate 
someone giving me the inside scoop on 
why I should go through all the craziness 
buggy involves. All you who dont
understand what causes Buggymania 
might want to hear some answers, too. So 
here it is, straight from buggy-scarred 
veteran driver Dave Fiedler, as we sit in 
Room 32 of PIKA:
Q. Why do fraternities and campus 
organizations make such a big deal 
out of winning buggy?
Dave: Because, believe it or not, winning 
Buggy is about the biggest competi
tive thrill on campus. You gain a lot 
of prestige, for in many peoples 
minds, its the ultimate goal of the 
year. For at least awhile, you stand 
head and shoulders above the other 
organizations on campus. And when
THERE JS A 
DIFFERENCE!
.ST**
Wf
^oC
NjOfcEDUCATIONAL 
CENTER 
ESSEX HOUSE LL2 
Corner of Neqley & Centre 
Pittsburgh 15206
TEST PREPARATION 
SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938
Visit Our Centers 
And See For Yourself 
Why We Make The Difference
Call Days, Eves & Weekends
661-2772
everyone works as hard on one 
event as people do for Buggy, the 
win means that much more to you.
Q. You mention winning, what does it 
mean for you as driver/chairman to 
win?
Dave: I look at winning this wayyou 
have to put out as much as possible, 
with an entire house or group 
effort. If youve worked hard 
physically, spent a hell of a lot of 
time, if the road is in good shape, if 
its not 30 degrees, if everyones 
healthy, if youre lucky, if, if, 
if, . . .then you win. If not, youll 
probably lose.
As Buggy Chairman, winning is 
satisfying because it means Ive 
organized a group effort, motivated 
people to do things they dont 
necessarily want to do, and spent 
countless hours of time for a good 
reason. For me, I need to have a 
return on my investment, some
thing to show that I havent been 
skipping classes or losing sleep for 
no reason. I want to be a winner, 
and hate to lose. But if it hap
pens,
Q. Yeah, how does it feel when you 
lose?
Dave: I feel drained, thats all. I stop and 
think of all the preparation, the 
work, the hours spent. . .the thing 
is, a years work is tested on the 
course in roughly two minutes time, 
and when you lose a race, its like 
any loss, it hits you hard, and you 
feel very hollow inside.
Some people talk about whats 
going to happen next year, how 
well blow everyone away, how 
well work twice as hard. Others 
look back and say what could have 
been better, if only we had done 
this, if only this hadnt happened. 
Second guessing really doesnt do a 
damn bit of good. Look at last year. 
PIKA lost in the finals against 
BETA by one second. One lousy 
second. When you start trying to 
think of how you have gained that 
mere fraction of time advantage, 
well, thats when you go crazy.
Then theres the people who get 
blitzed, I mean drunk to a stupor. 
Of course, when we win everyone 
gets ripped, too. But then, the only 
pain you feel the next day is from a 
a hangover.
Q. What this all leads up to is, how do 
you feel at 5:00 AM when you wait 
for the call from Free Roll Chairman 
to see if practice is on or not, and 
youre the rat who has to go around 
rousing people out of heavenly slum
ber?
Dave: Well, its up to me to see that every
one gets up, especially the people 
with essential assignments, like 
setting up the protective hay bale 
barricades on turns, and the flaggers 
who control traffic. Sure its hell to 
wake some of the guys up, they 
grumble and moan, roll over and 
tell me, Sure, Ill get up in five
minutes, and then hope I go away. 
Theres lots of times when my 
alarm goes off, and I tell myselt 1 
must be crazythats all part of the 
commitment, though. Its the more 
unpleasant side of Buggy, but a 
necessary one, nonetheless.
You think Saturday and Sunday 
free rolls are bad, wait til Race 
Week! We have 5:00 AM push prac
tices on Monday, Tuesday, and 
Wednesday. But on Thursday, we 
dont run at all, and the house is 
treated to steak dinners. When 
were still in the race on Friday 
evening, we have another steak din
ner! But no celebrating for pushers 
and driverstheyre in training until 
the final day on Saturday.
Q. What possesses you to slink
into a form-fitting compartment sus
pended 2-3 inches off the ground, 
lying in a prone position with hands 
at your sides, on bone chilling nights, 
where simply breathing becomes a 
chore, and claustrophobia almost 
certain? (note: I pushed two 
heats of buggy at my first free roll 
before I realized there were actually 
human beings inside the damn 
things!)
Dave: I dont get claustrophobia, luckily. 
To drive, you have to put up with a 
great deal of pain, though. My chin 
hurts from the bumps and potholes 
you pushers shove me over. You 
practically have to be double 
jointed to get into a buggy, and out, and the cold, its a real treat some
times. I cant wear too many 
clothes, or Id never get inside the 
buggy, so that means either very 
thin gloves or none at all, and twc 
pairs of socks, no shoes. Since Im 
so restricted and cramped, the cold 
can really get to me. When I get z 
cramp, some people just enjoy 
watching me try and get out of i 
buggy.
After a night of push practice, and 
putting up with all the pushers 
nonsense, I crawl out of the buggy 
and lay spread eagle on the ground, 
usually laughing like an idiot, when 
I think of what Im putting myself 
through. Dont take us drivers too 
seriously, we get pretty erratic in 
our behavior as Carnival gets closer.
Q. I know youre nuts, but dont you 
get a little scared when youre whip
ping down Schenley Hill, where a 
pothole, branch, or inconsiderate 
rival can send you sailing into a tree 
trunk? Arent you ever afraid of 
wrecking?
Dave: It does feel like youre going fast, 
though I wont tell you how fast we 
really go, its secret stuff. I guess I 
should be a little scared, but Im 
really not. Just like driving a car, 
you dont consciously think or 
worry about wrecking, you just go 
through the motions, and pay 
attention to what youre doing.
I was scared the first time I drove 
down the hill, but later when I reaWEDNESDAY, APRIL 18. 1979
THE SPECTROSCOPY SOCIETY OF PITTSBURGH
will present
DR. W. R. HEINEMAN
of the University of Cincinnati 
His talk will be:
in situ Studies of Electro-Chemical Reaction"
8:30 PM Duquesne University 
Mellon Science Building, Laura Falk Lecture Hall 
MEETING FREE TO ALL INTERESTED
ized how slow I was really going, it 
amazed me. Each time you run, you 
go a little faster. Once you go fast, 
you never want to go slower again, 
its so exhilarating. The speed is great, 
it just kills me to drive slow-all I 
want is to go faster and faster.
Q. And to go faster, the drivers have to
be as light as possible. I know this 
isnt your favorite subject, but what 
is forced dieting like for you, since 
you have to lose as much excess 
weight as possible?
Dave: I hate it. Hows that! But its
necessary. I dont drive if Im not 
the lowest weight. Ill let a less ex
perienced, but lighter driver ride a 
buggy before me.
Q. But what do you live on?
Dave: Not much. Mostly Diet Pepsi and 
gum, and plenty of vitamins. Some
times I drink protein supplement 
with milk...sort of a chalk cocktail.
I really dont eat just this junk, but 
a typical days meal is usually a 
piece of fruit for lunch and salad for 
dinner, with an occasional serving of 
lean meat, which we dont often 
have around here.
Q. How much time do you really spend 
on buggy?
Dave: A lot. Once February rolls around, I 
begin to spend every free minute 
working on buggies, building, test
ing, maintaining, you name it, 
theres always something to do.
Q. How about the grades, do you always 
manage to keep up?
Dave: Oh, I manage. Although last year I 
got a pretty good scare. My QJP.A. 
was below 2.0 at mid-term. I spent 
all my time on two things then, 
school and buggy, thats all. I 
pulled out about a 3.0 at finalsjust barely.
Punt this way, 1 practically live
in our Buggy Room. I do buggy 
and I sleep, often at weird hours, 
but its sleep just the same. Thank 
God Im a senior, and can concen
trate mostly on the races. I do go 
to class every now and then, just 
to make an appearance!
Q. Okay, Dave, I know that Buggy 
becomes your life in the Spring, and 
how much it means to you, so tell 
me honestly, is all the aggravation 
and sacrifice worth it? Its obviously 
more than just a pastime for academ
ically strained college kids like you.
Dave: It has to be worth it. Dont just
look at it as an eccentric way for us 
*Calculoids to entertain ourselves. 
Its real devotion of time and effort 
to achieve a goal. As far as me 
personally, I practically apply mech
anical engineering technology in de
signing the buggies, and I test my 
leadership and motivational abilities 
in getting you guys to move your 
butts.
Yeah, when you have 4,000 
people out there, with TV cameras 
and newspaper reporters, the sensa
tion you get by nply being apart
of it all is sensational. Besides that, 
when we win, the party is the v <d 
est time youll h<ive while Gre re it 
CMU.... Its dc, utdv rth it

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10TARTANApril 17, 1979
by Georgeanne L. Cherpes
Mary Kieman-Stern, action co-ordina
tor of the steering committee of PAAR 
(Pittsburgh Action Against Rape) was the 
guest speaker at the seminar sponsored by 
Residence Life and Peer Help on Wednes
day night.
PAAR, which is primarily made up of 
volunteer workers, was founded in 1972. 
Its centrally located in Oakland and ser
vices the community with a 24 hour rape 
hotline, victim advocates, emergency vic
tim transportation and shelter as well as 
educational seminars.
Rape has increased at a rate of 200% a 
year. At present in the United States, there 
is a woman raped every ten minutes. Eighty-five per cent of rapes that do occur are 
intended for the purpose of humiliating 
and degrading the person. The victim is 
raped, not murdered or brutally injured. It 
is important to remember that rape is 
committed not for sex, but as an act of vi
olence. Rape is a violent crime.
Until recently, society has condoned 
rape by putting the blame on the victim by 
saying either:She was asking for it, or 
What was she doing out at that time? 
For this reason, many rapes go unreported.
A rapist could be anyone. In most cases, 
he has a harder time to control his violence 
and rage. Because of the stigma that soci
ety has put upon rape, rapists can get away 
with their crime, and most rapists will rape 
more than one time. He will look for a vic
tim on whom to take out his violence.
Most rapes are premeditated whether it be 
a few minutes, days, or even weeks. A ra
pist will watch for vulnerability in the vic
tim and then attack.
Fifty-four per cent of accosted women 
get away while forty-six per cent are actu
ally raped, so there is something that you 
can do about getting raped.
Suggestions include:
1) Dont give information to anyone un
less you know the person and it sounds le
gitimate. (Rapists will watch to see if you 
are friendly and therefore vulnerable.)
2) Keep your door locked at all times  
and, ask who it is before opening it. A sug
gestion was made to purchase chain locks 
in order to open the door to see who it is 
before unlocking it.
3) Avoid traveling alone. This includes 
driving, walking, jogging, and going into 
public restrooms.
4) Be assertive. Show resistance in your 
manner. Rapists look for victims who 
wont resist.
5) If forced to walk alone, carry keys in 
between your fingers. Never carry a wea
pon that can be used against you.
If you cannot get away from a rapist, it 
is important to remember as much as poss
ible in order to facilitate his apprehension. 
Get a solid identification and remember 
any unusual characteristics such a cologne, 
walk, or voice.
If you have the chance to get away, do 
it. Do not hesitate in harming your attack
er  hes not hesistating in hurting you.
by Kathy Krummert
What do these men know that could 
make you a success? was the topic of the 
career seminar presented by AIESEC on 
Monday, April 9, at 7:00 PM in the Wherrett Room, Skibo Hall. Four successful pro
fessionals of the Pittsburgh area: Jack Harbaugh, Executive Vice President, Gulf 
Trading and Transportation Co.; Carl Holl
and, Vice President, Ketchum, MacLeod & 
Grove Inc.; Ted Jacob, President, Jacob In
ternational; and John Troan, Editor-inChief, Pittsburgh Press, spoke about inter
national and domestic marketing and man
agement, engineering and management, and 
the publishing industry. Thomas Kerr, 
Associate Professor of Industrial Admini
stration and Law at GSIA, introduced the 
panel.
To answer the question:What do I
know that could make you a success?, 
the men offered personal experiences and 
philosophies they felt had contributed to 
their success in their professions. They gave 
advice on what they felt was necessary to 
achieve success in any career. Some of the 
advise was about: the importance of
.refraining an individual in the company, 
being loyal to that company, demonstra
ting a willingness to learn, asking questions, 
being flexible, having patience, picking a 
goal and working very hard at it. John 
Troan summed it up by saying:Try to 
pick a career, a job you really think you 
will enjoy ... if you enjoy what you are 
doing, that is the true measure of success. 
The lecture ended with a question and 
answer session between the audience and 
the panel. Members were then given the 
dpportunity to speak to the men individ
ually.
CALL 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A
Fridays Special:
Alluou candide *2*
One Price Day
Friday, April 20, 12:00-4:00
$2.00 with CMU ID$3.00 without
PAAR reveals rape statsAIESEC hosts career seminar

---------------------------------------------------

April 17. 1979TARTANPage 11
"Gays are people first..
n
by Sherry Siegel
Last year after seeing Outrageous!, a 
m0vie starring female impersonator Craig 
Russell, I considered becoming gay. You 
cant be cool nowadays, I told my room
mate despondently, unless youre gay or 
black. The complexities involved in becom
ing a black person, not to mention the ob
jections my parents would surely raise, left 
only that choice.
But the movie left town and I remained 
my straight, dull self, resigned to living a 
life of uncoolness. When last month my 
friend Rick asked if Id like to visit some 
gay bars in honor of Gay Dialogue with the 
Media Week (March 25-31), being promo
ted by Gay Supporters at Pitt (GSP), I 
jumped at the chance. Would I be interest
ed? I would be delighted. What a kick, and 
what interesting copy the evening would 
make. I could see first-hand how the other 
half loves. Even better, I envisioned dull, 
straight me taking the gay underground by 
storm.
Needless to say, I have not become 
Bette Midler II.
To prepare for the outing, I dutifully 
read the latest copy of Christopher Street 
and asked Rick if he would consent to be
ing interviewed. So it was that my naivete 
suffered a sudden death and my conde
scending attitude disappeared, thankfully, 
while sitting in the Grill discussing the 
gay life with one of its participants.
August, 1977 was when I officially 
came out, whatever the hell that means, 
said Rick. He had his first extended rela
tionship with another male, and walked 
into a gay bar for the first time. Walked? 
He practically had to drag me. About a 
month passed before he told his straight 
friends. I was worried about what would 
happen when other people found out. I 
thought: theyre going to immediately for
get I was a nice person before, and theyre 
going to run away. Also, Rick had to con
tend with strong religious beliefs. I had a 
traditional, conventional Christian upbring
ing, and had learned that homosexuality 
was innately bad. But I knew I was not 
bad, I was just gay.
He resolved both conflicts successfully. 
Eventually I realized [the New Testa
ment] was written by people  it wasnt 
handed down by God. In the New Testa
ment, Jesus never speaks about [homosex
uality] _ It wasnt something they spent a 
whole lot of time talking about. As for 
how his friends received the news, nobody 
ran away. People just said*oh, and started 
asking questions about it. It was okay ... I 
may have a liberal bunch of friends, but I 
dont think so. Generally, I think people 
are willing to accept individuals, but not 
gays as a group.
Disappointed with this account of com
ing out  it sounded singularly unspectac
ular to me  I pressed for details. Was 
there a conscious decision to be gay? Was 
the decision to come out a sudden one? 
Did he, on either occasion, say one morn
ing to his reflection in the bathroom mir
ror, Todays the big day 
No to all three questions. Coming out is 
a gradual, all-encompassing process rather 
than an abrupt change in bedroom habits.
I think a problem that a lot of gays have 
is that they see themselves as heterosexuals 
who just happen to like having sex with 
boys, Rick speculates. But really its a 
whol. personality thing, a different life
style.
Though each event, from walking into
a gay bar to telling a straight friend about 
it, was traumatic in its own right, Im 
personally glad that Rick found the stren
gth to come out: no one who knows Rick 
and sincerely cares about him, I believe, 
could say that he was better off when try
ing to be heterosexual. The changes in Rick 
have been spectacular, apparently all for 
the better, and he acknowledges this. Be
fore, I was trying to make myself as una
ttractive as possible  asexual, so no one 
would worry ... I had to lose 70 pounds, so 
I did ... My piano playing is a lot freer than 
it used to be. I feel better about it. Im not 
afraid of expressing myself at the piano. I 
know that sounds ironic, because people 
used to tell me I was always very express
ive, but now it doesnt sound as neurotic ... 
Im more outgoing, together. I guess more 
adult.
Intellectually speaking, heteros can un
derstand it all  the trauma of admitting 
that your sexual preferences differ radi
cally from the norms set by society; of 
setting yourself up for painful scenes with 
sch6cked parents, friends, and straight ex
lovers; of leaving yourself open to discrimi
nation and stupidity a la Anita Bryant  
but intellectualism only goes so far. What 
the pressure of coming out feels like is 
something the hetero can never know.
Intellect and feeling. You can question 
the rightness of homosexuality from 
either end and still come to no conclusion. 
Theres nothing inherently wrong with 
it, Rick asserts. Now a person who goes 
around raping small children  thats sick. 
Point well taken  intellectually.
Consider another point: thanks to lower 
infant mortality rates, higher life expectan
cies, diminishing natural resources, and 
birth control that is fairly safe, fairly
effective, and readily available, making 
babies is no longer the main reason that 
people have sex. Biological destiny 
notwithstanding, there really seems to be 
no rational, intellectual argument against 
homosexuality.
But consider the issue emotionally. 
Ive been this way as long as I can remem
ber, Rick says. I really enjoy being gay. I 
like it and wouldnt have it any other 
way ... I dont really care about the reason 
Im gay - it doesnt exactly bother me.
As long as he can remember ... But 
didnt you once tell me, I ask, that you 
grew up living with your mother, aunt, 
and grandmother, and that you had a mis. erable childhood? Yes, he replies, but 
that didnt turn me gay. I was unhappy 
because I was gay and it was being repress
ed. So much for amateur psychology, 
which is just emotion cloaked in pseudo
science.
But emotions greatest spokesperson is 
the gut reaction, which often makes itself 
felt when one is doing some heavy-duty intellectualizing. A voice inside the heads of 
many people, gays and straights, intones 
suddenly: *' Its different, abnormal, and 
cant be right. Some people, of course, ne
ver hear this voice. Rick doesnt. Another 
gay friend hears it. Homosexuality certain
ly is not normal, he says, but its not going 
to stop existing either.
This simple observation makes the ques
tion of rightness moot and turns the pre
vious discussion into an irrelevant mental 
exercise. The important question now be
comes, What should wev do about homo
sexuality?
If youre gay, the answer is probably: 
Sit back and enjoy it. Straights have two
choices: fight it or accept it.
To fight it means to discriminate, nowa
days an unpopular practice. Rick says he 
has never felt anti-gay discrimination, but 
knows people who have. I know a girl 
tvho was forced out ot her apartment be
cause her landlord found out she was gay... 
Also, a friend of mine was waiting for a bus 
across the street from the Tender Trap [a 
gay bar], and the police confronted him 
and suggested the possibility that he was 
soliciting. More unnerving is this account:
A group drove out of the Traps parking lot 
and stopped for the red light. When the 
light changed and they started driving off, 
policemen parked nearby, stopped the driv
er and made him clean off his license plate. 
Things like that do go on ... When youre 
outside of [heterosexual] society, youre 
very aware of how it puts you down.
Acceptance seems to be the wiser course 
of action for a number of reasons. First, 
because its often difficult to distinguish 
the gays from the straights who are just as 
well dressed, and because not every gay is 
a screaming faggot, discriminating consist
ently is going to take a lot of effort.
Second, out of the high number of gays 
around, especially at CMU, some may be 
able to put up a good fight. (Youd be amazed at the number of gays on this cam
pus, Rick said. Another person, in sepa
rate conversation, wondered why theres 
never any mention made about the size
able gay community at CMU.)
But more important, acceptance makes 
sense in the light of two facts: 1) Rick isnt 
the only gay whos happier now than he 
was before  that is, if homosexuality, 
right or wrong, sometimes makes for hap
pier, healithier people, how can we deny its 
good; and' 2) gays, like straights, are 
to be judged no more, less, or differently 
than we judge all other people. Some gays 
are kind; some are cruel. Some are intelli
gent, capable of becoming lawyers, doc
tors, teachers; some are not. Some are fair, 
capable of becoming judges and politicians; 
some are not. Some are clever, some are 
dull. (All of them, however, are good danc
ers - that on good authority.)
Here I am, at the main point I wanted 
to make - that gays are people first, pur
suers of a lifestyle (whether its outstanding 
feature is a non-standard sexual preference 
or living off the land in Colorado) only sec
ond - and I see Im getting a bit punchy 
and writing somewhat tongue-in-cheek 
about the very serious issue or gay rights. 
But after a one-month crash course in the 
gay life, after becoming friendly with 
people who are gay, after learning that 
friends I already had were gay, it just seems 
ludicrous to me, and slightly embarrassing, 
to discriminate against a person on the ba
sis of homosexuality and I cant write seri
ously on it anymore.
With that thought in mind, watch for 
next weeks column, tentatively titled 
Sherry Makes the Gay Bar Scene.
Acknowledgements, official business: 
Gay Supporters at Pitt (GSP), a group for 
those in the Pittsburgh college community 
who support the gay cause, meets Sundays 
at 6 PM at S. Oakland Citizens Center, 
Semple Street. GSP invites those interested 
to attend. My apologies to Rick and GSP 
for my delay in writing these articles. My 
editor says Im lazy; really, you gave me a 
lot to think about (for that, thanks). 
Thanks to all who put up with my moronic 
questions. To any people who feel (or will 
feel) that I used them to do research, my 
apologies; it was unintended.
CMU Design
Show to Open
April 25
Color schemes for future spacecraft, a 
new look at the familiar kitchen faucetin 
fact, almost everything but the kitchen 
sink will be on display in A Really Big 
Show, Camegie-Mellons 1979 senior de
sign exhibit, opening April 25 at Pitts
burghs Courthouse Gallery/Forum.
Presented this year by the Allegheny 
County Commissioners, the exhibit con
sists of projects illustrating many different 
facets of the design profession: interior de
sign; illustration; new product develop
ment; signs and exhibits; packaging; tex
tiles; and graphic design. The exhibit will 
continue through May 29.
Industrial design and product design 
projects to be displayed include Winter 
Games, a board game based on the winter 
Olympics; a mobile electrocardiograph 
(EKG) machine; ceramic cookware for use 
in microwave ovens; an outdoor lounge 
chair; and devices integrating such electron
ic instruments as a calculator and a tele
phone.
Several projects analyze various aspects 
of graphic design. One student, for exam
ple, has designed a new typeface inspired 
by lettering on a hand-painted sign above 
an antique shop in Lucca, Italy. Another 
has developed a visual history of the myri
ad uses of graphic design during the past 
100 years. Other graphic design projects 
are an investigation of how alternative uses 
of typography affect the communication 
process, and a study of the structure and 
elements of letter forms.
Among the educational projects are a 
self-paced learning system on microcompu
ters; illustrations of new energy technolo
gies; a color-coded guide for teaching ele
mentary school children the Dewey iDecimal library indexing system; and a history 
of hospital care in Western Pennsylvania 
from 1848 to the present, including projec
tions of future health care technologies. In
formational and promotional projects in
clude displays and a newly designed logo 
for Pittsburghs Aviary and posters for 
Braddocks Field Historical Society, an 
organization formed recently to preserve 
the historical heritage of Braddock, Pa.
Projects representing other areas of the 
design field are textile patterns printed 
with silkscreen and block printing meth
ods, packaging for dishes used for Chinese 
cuisine, a guide book on paint colors apprpriate for Victorian era homes, and plans 
for a community park in Wilkins Town
ship. There is even an exhibit on how best 
to structure an exhibit.
The 42 projects were developed during 
the past academic year by senior design 
majors at CMU. Design Deparment Head
Joseph Ballay explains that the purpose of 
the show is to give students the opportun
ity to apply design principles to typica . 
professional assignments and to increase 
public awareness of how the work of de
signers affects the environment and our 
lifestyles.
The Gallery/Forum is located on the 
first floor foyer of the Allegheny County 
Courthouse on Grant Street. Gallery 
hours are 8:30 AM to 4:30 PM, Monday 
through Friday.
The exhibit is free and open to the pub
lic

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-TARTAN-April 17, 1979
B-Day Noted Security Added
 T OCt II/Aol/c uon^olicm Prvrrvrif
The centennial of Einsteins birthday 
will be marked with a series of lectures set 
for Monday and Tuesday, April 16 and 17. 
Free and open to the public, the talks be
gin at 4:30 PM in Doherty Hall Room 
2210.
On Monday, a personal view of Einstein 
will be offered by Banesh Hoffmann, Al
bert Einstein: the scientist and the man. 
Hoffman, a biographer of the noted physi
cist, was both a friend and a colleague of 
Einsteins.
On Tuesday, a symposium will feature 
three speakers discussing different aspects 
of Einsteins contributions. CMU mathe
matician Walter Noll will talk on relativity; 
CMU physicist Simeon Friedberg will re
view Einsteins influence on statistical phy
sics, and University of Pittsburgh science 
historian Kennth Schaffner will explore the 
effects of Einsteins work on philosophic 
thought.
The celebration of Einsteins centennial 
is sponsored by CMUs Mellon Institute of 
Science and the Department of Physics.
Last weeks vandalism of sorority 
booths has been checked by campus secur
ity. The safety team of the university has 
authorized two work-study students to 
watch the area in Morewood basement 
where the carnival objects are stored. The 
students, who are being paid four dollars 
an hour, will maintain a watch from 12-6 
AM and are equipped with radios.
This action has been taken as a result 
of UFOs response to the booth problem.
SENIORS!
Your commencement packets are avail
able this week at your departmental office. 
There is a great deal of very important in
formation in the packet, so be sure to pick 
it up soon.
One envelope in the package is titled 
Senior Survey. This is your chance to 
evaluate your four year experience at CMU 
and make criticisms and suggestions. Please 
take a half-hour to complete the question
naire and return it to Mrs. McCredie, Skibo 
56 next week. For every survey turned in, 
there will be a gift voucher for a FREE 
hamburjjer^^ajCoke^____ _ _  _
Rent an Apartment NOW for 
September 1 occupancyI
600 Student 
on McKee Place
JLMADOATCcnd ADUATt STUOCNTSIT
Beautiful Furnished Apartments
Featuring: Air-Conditioning, Contemporary Fur
nishing. All included in Lower than Dorm Rents. 
Accommodating 1, 2, 3 and 4 persons per apartment. 
Long or Short Term Rentals with Subletting 
Privileges. Campus and Adjacent Areas.
175 Apartments Available 
Also Eff. Apts. 318 N. Neville St. 681-0186 
Oakland Office. 308 McKee. Phone 681-9256 
or Call Dan T. Mosse, 471-1009, 24-Hr. Ans. Service
DANIELS REALTY CO.
Security Is important: locked main door, double locks on 
apartment doors, metal guards lower level windows, 
caretaker on premise.
HAPPY EflSTER PHOTOSARC THE ONES DEVELOPED AT flSflPHOTO.
Happy Easter. Family and friends make for Great Events.
It's time to start making Easter eggs and baskets and planning that 
big dinner for all the relatives.
With so much to do, 
its easy to forget to buy 
film and flash bulbs. So 
stock up on film. Make 
an Easter date with 
ASAPHOTO for fast 
mistake proof prints and 
you'll get them back the 
same day, because we 
develope your pictures 
right in our store.
So remember.
Get Film.
Flashbulbs.
Projector lamps and same-day 
service at ASAPHOTO in Oakland 
in the Forbes Pavilion across from 
Parkvale Savings.
Hours, 7:30 to 6 pm, 3527 Forbes Ave., 
Oakland (Forbes Pavilion) Phone 681-1720
fPUSHTV 
V
ItepuMtasLl
ENGINEERS: AIM FOR MANAGEMENT 
Supervisory Opportunities in Ohio-lllinois
Republic, a leading producer of high performance steels, has a commitment to employ aggressive engineering 
professionals-those with solid academic credentials and exceptional skills in communications
MECHANICAL - ELECTRICAL - INDUSTRIAL 
0-2 years experience
MAINTENANCE SUPERVISORS
Enjoy building and repairing machinery? Our engineers 
take charge of preventive maintenance projects and 
manage skilled crews who overhaul and install steel mill 
equipment. Supervisors coordinate plant maintenance 
programs for hydraulic, pneumatic, mechanical and 
electrical systems and machinery
PRODUCTION SUPERVISORS
Interested in taking charge of production'? Our engi
neers manage mill crews and support groups to 
assure a continuous production of high quality steels 
at the lowest possible cost Supervisors instruct hourly 
production workers in the efficient use and operation 
of equipment and machinery
Republics major production operations are centered in the heartland of America's metal market We are continuing 
to invest in facilities which enhance our competitive position in the market place If you are aiming for management, 
move one step closer to Steel Plant Supervision by sending a resume
c/o
Employment Officer 
Republic Steel Corporation 
P. O. Box 6778, 406R 
Cleveland OH 44101
an equal opportunity employerRenuMcsteel

---------------------------------------------------

*. i*   
I*1 J

---------------------------------------------------

14
ACi_______________________DOOBIE
Glossary of Slang and Colloquialisms Common 
on the CMU Campus
"No one speaks properly all the time." The 
proof of that statement made by one student in 
Section F of the "Problems in Writing" class is 
the "Glossary of Slang and Colloquialisms Com
mon on the CMU Campus" compiled by the class. 
The representative selection of terms and phrases 
was collected by the students from faculty, staff 
members, administrators, and fellow students 
with the desire to "inform readers of the many 
levels of communication which exist between 
people of different groups"; to "provide a linguis
tic 'flavor' of the area"; and to "make people 
aware of the slang that they use every day."
Some terms may seem hackneyed to the 
reader, but have been judged still popular 
enough to be included; other words have been 
given new meanings. Derogatory and vulgar terms, 
as well as those related to the drug culture, have 
been included not to offend, but to produce a 
"glossary which would be complete."
The class acknowledges that many words may 
have been overlooked and invites readers to 
contribute.
Class members are: David Ableman, Mark 
Alterio, Ken Brennan, Cybelia Cartwright, Linda 
Clay, Eric Crane, Scott Dansey, John Dzielski, 
Gerald Gilllgan, Richard Hanusek, Russell Kardos, 
Linda Kozenko, Gilda Norris, Randy Roker, 
Valree Smith, Michael Soncrant, Lester Steinberg, 
Gregory Troy, Win Westervelt, and Adrian 
Zvarych.
-Aace (verb) - to pass an examination.
acid (noun) - the drug L. S. D.
act (noun) - one's present state of affairs; one's
behavior.
ain't nothing but a thang - nothing out of the 
ordinary is occurring.
air head (noun) - a forgetful, stupid person, 
all nighter (noun) - the act of staying up all night 
to complete homework or study for an exam, 
artsy-fartsy (noun) - a person who is studying 
design.
ass (noun, vulgar) - the human posterior; one who 
is foolish.
asshole (noun, vulgar) - the anus; a stupid or silly 
person.
Bbabe (noun) - a female; usually physically appeal
ing.
bamma (noun) - a male who wears brightly 
colored clothing.
bad (adj.) - very stylish or sharp; good.
bang (verb, vulgar) - to have sexual intercourse.
banger (noun) - someone who talks loudly.
back off (verb) - to retreat; (imperative) an order
for someone to stop annoying.
batting (verb) - a male who has a steady or is
dating constantly.
being a doctor - one who is constantly depressed, 
be for real - a request for someone to be realistic 
or honest.
big shit (noun, vulgar) - a big deal, a statement of 
contempt.
blew it off - failed to complete a job. 
blitz (noun) - act of pursuing a quarerback in 
football; (verb) blitzed - getting excessively 
drunk.
blood (noun) - a close friend.
blown away (verb) - to be killed; to be drynk.
B. O. C. - abbreviation for Back on Campus, 
bodo (noun) * a person of low intellect; a stupid 
person.
bones (noun) - marijuana ciqarettes.
bogarder (noun) - a rough, inconsiderate, and
rude person.
bogart (noun) - someone who constantly borrows 
things.
bohanky (adj.) - a situation which is potentially 
dangerous.
bonehead remark - a stupid utterance.
bong (verb) - to smoke marijuana from a type of
water pipe (a bong).
boning (verb) - being depressed. ?
book (verb) - to study or read a book; to depart.
box (noun) - a television set, radio, or tape player.
bread (noun) - money.
break (verb) - to act in a rowdy manner.
breeze (verb) - to depart.
brick (noun) - a calculator.
broad (noun) - a female.
brother-man (noun) - a form"of address; usually
between two black males.
bubbler (noun) - a water fountain.
bug off (imperative) - an expression ordering
someone to stop annoying.
bugged (adj.) - crazy; annoyed.
bug out - something extremely odd or peculiar.
bumming out - being depressed about a recent
experience.
buns (noun) - the buttocks.
burn 'em (verb) - lighting a marijuana cigarette.
busting loose - to relax.
butch (noun, vulgar) - a female who looks and 
acts like a male.
buzz (noun) - a euphoric feeling as a result of 
druqs.burnout (noun) - a person who is without reason; 
usually refers to a user of drugs.
C
can go home - to have reached a main objective, 
cat (noun) - a male.
TARTAN FOLIO
EDITOR. LISA AMOWI1 -7
ASSISTANT EDITOR: GHFRYL GOODMAN
ARTDIRECTOR TOM HART
COVER DESIGN- TOM HART
LISA AMOWITZ
charette (noun) - the act of staying up all night I 
check it out - request to pay attention. |
chill out - to calm down. a
'chiner (noun) - a mechanic. 1
chirp (verb) - to sing.  i
choke (verb) - to be excited; excessively nervous. I 
chow down - to eat heartily. I
chump (the) (noun) - a nice place to be. j
chump your face - to make one look stupid. 1
coke (noun) - cocaine. I
cold-blooded (adj.) - a cruel person or act. i
come off it (imperative) - to quit one's kidding; tol 
be realistic. I
comp nerd - someone who is always in the com-| 
puter center. I
cool it (imperative) - calm down; stop. j
cool out (imperative) - don't get excited; calm I 
down.
cop (verb) - to buy; to copy. j
copout (verb) - to avoid an issue. j
cosmic (adj.) - a strange person or situation.
crash (verb) - a heavy, drug-induced sleep.
crib (noun) - one's place of residence.
crock (noun) - a farce; nonsense; exaggeration.
cunt (noun, vulgar) - the female sex organ; a sissy.
cut (noun) - the open area between Hunt Library
and Forbes Avenue; the grassy areas between the
the CMU buildings.
cut me some slack - give me a chance.
cut the shit (imperative) - a directive to stop an
action; calm down.
-Ddazzle (noun) - an attractive woman, 
deal (verb) - to accept responsibility.
Dead Head - a Grateful Dead fan.
death (adj.) - an outstanding act. ' -
death joint - something outstanding; extremely
pleasurable.
deep (adj.) - an unbelievable occurrence; some
thing very significant, 
dig on that (imperative) - pay attention, 
digging (verb) - asking for additional points on a 
test.
dim bulb - a person who acts without thinking, 
dime bag - an amount of marijuana valued at $10. 
ding up (verb, vulgar) - to engage in sexual inter
course.
do bones - to smoke a marijuana cigarette, 
doobie (noun) - a thick marijuana cigarette.

---------------------------------------------------

15
DORKMEAN
mean (adj.) an attractive person.
mess with - to fool around with; to annoy.
Burnout
dork (noun) - an idiot; a person who studies con
stantly.
dorm drag - a person who resides in a dormitory, 
douche bag - a derogatory term for a person who 
provokes anger.
down (adj.) - to be in a depressed state.
drag (noun) - an event or a person who lacks
interest in everything.
dreck (noun) - a worthless object; (adj.) sloppy; 
unorganized.
drop a dime - to tattle or tell someone, 
druggie (noun) - one who uses drugs extensively, 
dry (adj.) - a party without alcohol; a joke that is 
not funny.
dude (noun) - a male.
dusty (adj.) * someone on drugs, particularly the 
drug called angel dust.
-Eease up - to slow down; to calm down.
easy (adj.) - to indicate a small quantity; wishing
someone to take care.
-Fface (verb) - to ignore someone who says hello, 
fag (noun) - a cigarette; (derogatory) a male 
homosexual.
fairy (noun, derogatory) - a male homosexual, 
fired up - to be high on drugs or liquor, 
flake (noun) - an odd person.
Flash Cube - Warner Hall, CMU. 
files (noun) - all stored information about some
one.
fine (adj.) - an extremely handsome male or beau
tiful female.
flipped out - to become irrational, 
fox (adj.) - an attractive woman, 
frat (noun) - a fraternity.
frat rat - a person who lives in a fraternity house, 
freak (noun) - a person who consumes a large 
amount of drugs.
freaky deep - something that is extremely pro
found.
freeze (verb) - to stop.
frog (noun) - an unattractive person.
fruitcake (noun) - a crazy person, 
fuck (verb, vulgar) - to engage in sexual inter
course; (interjection) indicates anger.
-Ggazorching (verb) - shooting water balloons with 
a sling shot made of rubber tubing and a cloth 
pouch.
gees (g's) (noun) - girls.
get down - to become depressed; (vulgar) to en
gage in sexual intercourse, 
grill (noun) - a face.
get over - to cheat; (vulgar) to have sexual inter
course.
going up street- to travel to the business district 
in Pittsburgh.
golfing (verb) - to pursue a female who is consi
dered undesirable, 
go off - to act crazy. , .
got your nose - implies control one has over
another; especially between a man and a woman, 
got the rap - to claim the floor in a conversation, 
grass (noun) - marijuana.
greaser (noun) - the typical tough guy; one who 
wears a leather jacket.
grey matter - the carpeted lounge in Skibo Hall 
lobby.
gum band (noun) - a rubber band; elastic band, 
gumbie (noun) - a common laborer, 
gummy (noun) - someone who chews gum 
vigorously.
-Hhacker (noun) - a computer science student, 
half-steppin' (adj.) - one who fails to complete 
a task.
hang (verb) - to socialize on the same level as 
everyone else.
hanging (verb) - to associate with a person or a
group for a long period of time.
hang out - to socialize.
hang it up - to cease an act.
head (noun) - a stupid person; a person who uses
drugs excessively.
heavy (adj.) - important; staggering.
Hill (noun) - the CMU dormitories located on the
hill; the HILL District of Pittsburgh.
hit (noun) - the action of inhaling drugs that are
smoked.
hit a flick - to go to a movie, 
honky (noun, derogatory) - a white person, 
hooked (adj.) - one who is fashionably dressed, 
hook up - to help someone; to fight with some
one.
Hoopies (noun, derogatory) - people from West 
Virginia.
hoops (noun) - basketball; the game, 
horn (noun) - any musical instrument, 
hot (adj.) - felling lucky; (vulgar) sexually stimu
lated.
hot to trot - anxious to do something.
humps (noun) - the carpeted lounge area in Skibo
Hall.
hunk (noun) - a big, handsome male.
-Iice it (imperative) - forget about it; stop it. 
intense (adj.) - a feelincj of extreme pleasure or 
anxiety depending on the situation.
Ishkuda (noun) - any town in a rural area.
-Jjacked up - to be badly hurt; to be untidey or 
unorganized.
jack off (noun) - someone who fools around
excessively; a situation in which one person is
manipulated by another.
jag (verb) - to tease or mock someone.
jag-off (noun) - a stupid person; an expression
of dislike.
jam (verb) - to have fun; to play rogk music.
jams (noun) - records.
jive (noun) - exaggerated or deceptive talk.
jive turkey (noun) - someone who is always
kidding, never serious.
jock (noun) - a person with outstanding ath
letic ability, but few academic talents, 
joint (noun) - an exciting place to be; a fun 
activity; a marijuana cigarette, 
jumpin' (verb) - to dance and enjoy one's self.
-Kkill some brain cells - consumption of alcoholic 
beverages.
kissing up to - trying to get on someone's better 
side.
-Llaid back - relaxed; casual in manner.
lay one on me - to do violence; to give someone
what is due.
leg job (noun) - falsehood.
lez (noun, derogatory) - a female homosexual.
load (adj.) - a person who is useless; (noun) a fat
person; (adj.) a positive situation.
local yokel (noun) - a policeman.
lunchin' (adj.) - a confused state.
-Mmadness (adj.) - something particularly odd. 
Maggie-Murph (noun) - Margaret Morrison Car
negie Hall.
marijuana patrol (noun) - policemen.
momma (noun) - a pretty woman, 
monk (noun) - someone who finds important 
information about a person or event that has 
been difficult to locate.
motorhead (noun) - a mechanic for auto
mobiles.
motor mind (noun) - someone who always thinks 
in the same way.
mudgekin (noun) - a resident of the Mudge House 
at CMU.
mudwomper (noun) - a word used to insult some
one.
munchies (noun) - the sudden desire to eat , 
especially junk; may occur following the use of 
drugs. -Nnasty (adj.) - something that is nice, 
neat (adj.) - something interesting or exciting, 
nebby (adj.) - overly curious, 
nerd, nurd (noun) - a person who studies exces 
sively.
nerding (verb) - studying for a longer period o1 
time than necessary to complete an assignment, 
nerd out (verb) - to go into a long period o1 
study.
nice (adj.) - euphoric feeling following the use ol 
drugs or liquor.
nickel bag (noun) - an amount of marijuana 
valued at $5.
nimrod (noun) - one who acts without thinking, 
number cruncher (noun) - a person (usually an 
engineer) who plugs numbers into a given 
formula.
-Ooff the wall - illogical action.
old lady (noun) - a girlfriend or wife.
on the move - dating or going steady with one
boy or girl.
on the rag - to be upset.
out of it - to be in a low or depressed state.
out of sight * a pleasing act or event.
-Ppartying (verb) - smoking a marijuana cigarette; 
a gatnering with alcoholic beverages, 
peck (noun) - food.
pht (adj.-prounced "fat") - a woman who is
considered well endowed.
pigeon (noun) - a woman.
pig out (verb) - to eat excessively, gluttonous.
pissed (adj., vulgar) - annoyed; irritated.

---------------------------------------------------

16
PITCHINGZONKOUT
pitching (verb) - a female who is going steady, 
playing cupid - setting up two lovers.
Point (noun) - the Golden Triangle, Point State 
Park.
polluted (adj.) - under the influence of alcohol 
or drugs.
poof (noun) - a male homosexual; someone who
appears silly.
pot (noun) - mariiuana.
prick (noun, vulgar) - the male sexual organ.
psyche out (verb) - to mentally confuse.
pussy (noun, vulgar) - femal sexual organ; (adj.)
a sissy.
-Rradiator (noun) - the Hunt Library, CMU.
rags (noun) - clothing.
raise (noun) - one's parents.
rap (verb) - to talk; converse.
raunchy (adj.) - anything dirty or unappealing.
real gay (adj.) - something very unique.
recipe (noun) - a mathematical formula.
RECT (or WORST), at the bottom of your dial -
WRCT, campus radio station.
redd up (verb) - to clean; make neat.
ride (noun) - an automobile.
right on (interjection) - expression of agreement.
-Sscared of you - an expression denoting something 
outstanding
Schlag (noun) - Hamerschlag Hall, CMU 
schvartza (noun, derogatory) - name for a person 
of a racial minority
scoping (verb) - looking at or for girls in Morewood Cafeteria
scream (verb) - to laugh uncontrollably 
screwed (verb) - to have one's plans interrupted; 
vulgar) to engage in sexual intercourse 
serious (adj.) - pleasant; nice 
serious as cancer - to be very earnest 
shafting (verb) - to do something to ruin another's 
plans
shit shot (noun, vulgar) - an event which turns out
well due to luck
slide (verb) - to strike; punch
S'and p library (noun) - the Engineering and
Science Library
smoke (verb) - to use a marijuana cigarette;
(noun) a marijuana cigarete
snow (noun) - a term for cocaine
solid (adj.) - excellent; great
space head (noun) - one who does not know what
he is doing; (adj.) a flighty, illogical action
spliff (noun) - marijuana
spot (noun) - one's home or resting place
souped up (adj.) - gullible
sporting (adj.) - something that is very nice; satis
factory
square business - an honest action; good 
steam tunneling (verb)- exploring that abandoned 
steam tunnels running underneath the campus 
grounds
stretchin' out (verb) - to feel free to do as one 
pleases
super (adj.) - expression of joy
super slick (adj.) - one who is sneaky; one who is
very attractive
-Ttease (noun) - a female who befriends a male, 
then ignores him
techie (noun) - a student in CIT at CMU; a stu
dent in CFA who is a production major 
terrible (adj.) - something outstanding 
threads (noun) - clothing
throwing down (verb)-- doing well; enjoying 
one's self
together (adj.) - a self-possessed, composed per
son; nice person
toke (verb) - to inhale drugs that are smoked 
toys (noun) - material related to one's field 
of study
traying (verb) - the act of sliding down a snowy
hillside on a CMU cafeteria food tray
trick prick (noun, vulgar) - the male sexual organ
trip (noun) - an extraordinary feeling or event
trucking (verb) - running late for classes; to go
somewhere in a hurry
truck out (verb) - to leave
tubes noun) - the Liberty tunnels
turned the cheek - an obnoxious and self-centered
act
twinkie (adj.) - a pleasant state of affa^satisfac
tory
aga
under the clock - the corner of Fifth Avenue and 
Smithfield Street in downtown Pittsburgh 
up in the stratosphere - someone who is high on 
drugs or alcohol'
upper (noun) - a drug that stimulates
user confuser (noun) - a user consultant in the
Computation Center
aea
vator (noun) - abbreviated form of elevator 
vegy room (noun) - the vegetarian room in the 
Morewood Cafeteria
vicious (adj.) - pleasurable; nice; extraordinarily 
good or bad
Vox Room (noun) - a room in the Computer 
Science Department with audio-visual hook-ups 
to the computers
a4a
walkee (noun) - one's best friend; a buddy 
waste (noun) - one who does no school work 
when out of class
whacko (noun) - someone who acts out of the 
ordinary
what's the deal - a salutation; inquiry of one's 
health
wild (adj.) - to describe the unexpected; a surprise 
whimp (noun) - person who is not physically well 
built; a person who does well on a test; a person 
who looks or act silly
aMa
yahbos (noun) - the female breasts
yoke (verb) - to give someone a karate chop
you down? - invitation to join others
youns (pronoun) - all of you
ma
zonk out (verb) - to go to sleep
Sign Up For These
CARNIVAL 
EVENTS:
PLANK JOUST 
EGG TOSS 
PIE EATING 
RELAY RACES 
GAZORCHING 
FRISBEE 
TUG-OF-WAR
By 5:00 on Thursday. 
For events schedule 
see page 4.
T-SHIRT CONTEST
For All Spring Carnival and Buggy T-Shirts 
Bring your entry to the Skibo Information 
Desk by 5:00p.m. Thursday
Winners will be announced at 
the Awards Ceremony.
(T-Shirts will be returned)

---------------------------------------------------

April 17, 1979-1 ARTAN-Page 19
Allman Brothers surpass expectations
An Album Review 
Allman Brothers Band 
Enlightened Rogues 
Capricorn Records 1978
by Ted Smits
Ever since the Allman Brothers Band 
broke up in 1976 there has been talk of a 
reunion. Last July the remaining members 
of the band performed at a Dickey Betts 
concert in New York City. This unannoun
ced reunion was greeted with an enthusias
tic response from the crowd and helped 
lead the way to the release of a new album. 
Most reunion albums should be approached 
with caution. Too many times bands have 
released albums that do not measure up to 
the groups past performances. In view of 
what most of the groups members were 
doing the last few years, expectations were 
not very high for this album. Surprisingly 
the Allman Brothers new release, Enlight
ened Rogues, is an excellent album that is 
equal to their best work.
Pregnant? And you didn't 
mean to be? For a free 
pregnacy test and con
fidential, understanding 
support, call Birthright.
621-1988
The Allman Brothers Band was formed 
in 1969. Brothers Duane and Gregg had 
previously played in two bands (Allman 
Joys and Hourglass), but were searching for 
a group that would (in Duanes words) 
play progressive rock. The two brothers 
joined with guitarist Dickey Betts, bassist 
Berry Oakley and drummer Butch Trucks to 
form the Allman Brothers Band. Their first 
two albums were slight successes, but it 
wasnt until the release of their Live at the 
Fillmore East album that the Allman 
Brothers almost took over the American 
rock scene. The live album and its followup Eat a Peach brought the band to the top 
of the music world. Critics and fans alike 
praised the band.
Just as they reached the peak of their 
success, tragedy struck the band. Duane 
Allman (rocks greatest slide guitarist) was 
killed in a motorcycle accident. A year la
ter, bassist Berry Oakley was killed in a 
similar motorcycle accident. Pianist Chuck 
Leavell and bassist Lamar Williams joined 
the group for a series of cross-country tours 
and a number of gold albums. In 1976, 
troubles over a heroin arrest and other per
sonal problems led to a complete breakup 
of the band. After two years of solo work, 
all of the past members (except Chuck 
Leavell) decided to re-form the group; En
lightened Rogues is the product of this de
cision.
Two new musicians have joined the 
band. Dan Toler had previously played in 
Betts Great Southern band. While Dan Tolers guitar work is obviously no where near 
Duane Allmans excellence, the dual guitar 
leads between Betts and Toler still provide 
that characteristic Allman Brothers sound. 
The quality of this album is shown on the
ALONE AND PREGNANT?
A caring, confidential friend, 
LIFELINE. DOWNTOWN PITTSBURGH 
562-0543. Free Pregnancy Testing. 
Evening Hours Available
Introducing Wide-Body DC-10 Service 
to the Heart of Europe.$299 Roundtrip.
And our great bargain price is still the same as before. Just $299 roundtrip from New York to Luxembourg, $149.50 one way. Price includes an excellent dinner, free wine and cognac. No restrictions. Tickets can be purchased anywhere in the U.S.A. and are good for a full year. DC-10 flights leave and return five times weekly.There has been one other change at Icelandic. We have a brand new symbol and have added Icelandair to our name.
For more information see your travel agent. Or write Dept. 
#C-396lcelandic Airlines, P.O. Box 105, West Hempstead, NY 
11552. Or call toll free. In New York City, 757-8585; in New 
York State. (800) 442-5910; elsewhere, (800) 223-5080.
NAME
ADDRESS 
CITY_____STATE
ICELANDIC
kdandkfe Big Bargain to Europe 
Just Got Bigger.
first songs on each side. Crazy Love and 
Blind Love are both high energy rockers 
that rank with the Allmans best songs. 
You Cant Take It With You is another 
one of Dickey Betts slow southern blues 
ballads. Pegasus continues the tradition 
of having at least one instrumental on 
every album. Every song on the album is 
enjoyable and most are just great southern 
rock and roll.
The real reason that this album is so ex
cellent is that the band has been able to up
date their sound without losing any of 
their musical roots. Each song is still based 
in southern blues-rock, but their music has 
become fuller, more finished without los
ing any of its appeal. The song most unlike
older Allman ^Brothers songs is Sail Away, but even this song is of such high 
quality that it fits right in with the rest of 
the album.
This album seems to indicate that Dick
ey Betts is now the effective leader of the 
band. He wrote 5 out of the 7 songs and 
two of his past band members have joined 
the Allman Brothers. Allman and Betts 
share vocals on most songs. They are often 
accompanied by Jim Esserys blues har
monica work. All of the members of the 
band help contribute to this albums ex
cellent sound. I would recommend this al
bum for any old Allman Brothers fan as 
well as anyone else who likes good rock 
and roll.
UNDER THE BIG TOP 
Spring Carnival 1979
SDC Presents:
Thursday Friday
9:00 to midnight ...
Disco with DJ, Square dance
Kevin Bvtco with
Mr. Thornburg
Saturday 
i:3o to 3:30 
Gong Show 
10:00 to i:ooa.m. 
Semi~ Format 
with AURA
*xsxx%3aaexsex%xx%xxxxxxxxxxxsexxxxxxxxs%xxxsexxxxxx%%xxxx3as3aexi
Students
Are you looking for Work?
The CMU Physical Plant Department has a number of positions as General 
Laborers available.
Some of those hired could start at once on a part time schedule until the end of 
the school year. Once school is over the work schedule would be 7:30 AM to 
4:00 PM five days a week.
The duties include the performance of a wide variety of skilled and semi-skilled 
tasks in support of all of the various groups of workman in our shops i.e. A/C 
Mechanics, carpenters, electricians, groundsmen laborers, masons, automotive 
mechanic, painters, pipefitters, plumbers and welders.
The rate of pay for these positions would be up to $3.50 per hour depending 
upon your qualifications and experience.
If interested please call Mr. Charles B. McShane, Maintenance Superintendent 
at Ext. 2910 to arrange for an interview.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20-TARTAN-April 17, 1979
Music and mystery enhance'Hotel For Criminals'
by Kate Bertrand
Whats black and white and hilarious? 
Easy: Theatre Expresss production of 
Hotel for Criminals, a musical mystery by 
Stanley Silverman and Richard Foreman. 
Black, white and grey costumes, together 
with neutral sets and eerie monochromatic 
makeup set the plays tone even before the 
first song. Deathlike white greasepaint cov
ers the actors faces, and darkened eyes, 
lips, frownlines and so on make for a monster-movie mood.
Hotel for Criminals concerns the arch 
villain Fantomas (Leslie Young) and his ex
ploits in the hotel where he and other Pari
sian criminals live. Early in the play Fan
tomas angelic daughter, Helene (Catherine 
Roberts), marries his prisoner, Max. Consis
tent with the shows halloweenish tone she 
carries a bridal bouquet of black flowers.
In a later scene Helene is accosted by 
vampiress/seductrice Irma Vep (Susan 
Cash), who encourages her to come and 
play. The sexual theme crops up again in 
Fantomas Silver Car Ballad, in which he 
sings of his own love for Helene.
After many twists of plot the play 
draws to a somewhat unsettling and open 
ended close. The multiple mysteries in 
Hotel for Criminals are never really solv
edthe narrator informs the audience at 
the end that more adventures at the hotel 
will be shown in weeks to come.
Plot, however, is the least important 
element in this production. It is Silver
mans memorable music, performed by a 
very talented cast, that makes it work. The 
music is lilting when necessarry, as in Maxs 
opening solo, yet brisk and snappy when 
thats more suitable. Silvermans music, 
moreover, is consistently attractive to hear. 
The tunes are to the ear what finger foods 
are to the palate: tasty and flavorful mor
sels.
Foremans libretto, on the other hand, 
sometimes fades into obscurity. At times 
his lyrics sound like he chose them at ran
dom or at best to fit the rhyme scheme. I 
was especially puzzled when Max sang of 
depositing sand in his closet and thereby 
spoiling his sandwiches. I felt I had missed
the double entendre, if indeed there was 
one.
In any case its clear that music alone 
cant sustain a show. The meat of a produc
tion is its cast, and in this case the meat is 
Del Monico steak. The leads all perform 
uncommonly well, particularly Fantomas. 
Leslie Youngs almost operatic bass voice is 
forceful and well projected throughout the 
show, softening only when certain songs 
demand it. He handles both modesthe 
forceful and the sweet quite well.
Catherine Roberts as Fantomas daught
er is also outstanding. She is one of the 
shows two benign characters (the other is 
Max) and carries her part well, singing 
clearly and hitting some unusually high 
notes in a duet with Irma Vep. Miss 
Roberts also does a laudable job in her 
characterization of Helene; she keeps her 
consistently angelic.
In the role of Irma Vep, Susan Cash per
forms with exceptional vigor. She uses her 
voice to screech, rave, entice and entrance 
the rest of the cast and brings Irma to life
with expressive grimacing and easy to read 
body language. Rounding out the cast are 
Max and Judex, played competently by 
Tom Spinella and Jed Harris respectively.
The chorus (Rick Peridan, Jed Harris,,
Steve Roberts and David Harrison) provide 
a solid backdrop for the leads and use both 
song and dance to their best advantage. 
The choreography emphasizes bold physi
cal shapes and compliments the choruss 
harmonizing.
Excellence in all aspects makes Hotel 
for Criminals, the final production in Thetre Expresss first season, a well integrated 
and praiseworthy effort. And its tightness 
makes for laughter as well, from curtain 
time until the lights come up.
Hotel for Criminals will be performed at 
4615 Baum Boulevard through April 28. 
Performances are Thursday through Sun
day evenings and Sunday afternoons. For 
more information or reservations, call The
atre Express at 621-5454.
SATURDAY, APRIL 28. 1979
a.m. 9:00 Registration, Skibo Lobby
9:45 Welcome and Orientation, Skibo Ballroom
10:00 International Finance - The United States in a World Marketplace - 
Donald E. Stingel, Director, Export-lmport Bank 
of the United States
11:30 Research and Development - The Key to Continued Prosperity? 
Henry Lehne, Vice President Manufacturing Services,
GTE Products Corporation.
p.m. 12:30Lunch in the Faculty Dining Room.
1:30 Decision Making Within the Firm - A Journey into the Minds of
Executives - Dr. Herbert A. Simon, Richard King Mellon Professor 
of Computer Science and Psychology, Carnegie-Mellon University.
2:30 Marketing - The Dynamic Interface Between Producers and
Consumers - Dr. Alfred A. Kuehn, President, Management Science 
Association.
*
4:00 Reception in Wherrett Room.
FOR RESERVATIONS CONTACT SARC OFFICE 
505 WARNER HALL 
$3 for CMU students includes conference and luncheon
SARC PRESENTS 
ISSUES IN BUSINESS TODAY
SCHEDULE
Registration and all sessions will be held in Skibo, the Student Activities Center.
FOR SUMMER TRA VEL 
TO EUROPE
-m MAKE RESERVATIONS NOW.
M1-OTM
FOR LOW FARES, 
CHARTERS, 
TOUR PACKAGES
Call 
Peoples Travel 
621-0799
I

---------------------------------------------------

April 17, 1979TARTAN Page 21
Roxy Music reunion electrifies sparse audience
by Alan Spero
The reunited Roxy Music, starting on 
their first American tour in over three 
years, gave an intense, electrifying perform
ance at the Stanley Monday, April 9, and 
no one in Pittsburgh seemed to know 
about it. Ferry and company did not come 
close to selling out the Stanley and by 
shows end there were still plenty of seats 
available on the floor. This is at the same 
time a shame and shameful for the 
rock-viewing public of Pittsburgh, because 
Roxy Music put on one of the best con
certs Ive seen in this city.
The evening was opened up by an Irish 
band, Horslips, here on their third Ameri
can tour. The five man band features 
Johnny Fean on guitar, Eanon Carr on 
drums, Barry Devlon on bass, Charles 
OConnor on fiddle (and other assorted 
instruments), and Jim Lockhart on organ. 
The groups strength lies mostly in their 
instrumental abilities. Their vocals are 
adequate, but their songs all seem to 
contain the same Irish melody line, which 
becomes monotonous after awhile. The 
group played well, overcoming technical 
difficulties and a sparse crowd. They chose 
material evenly from all three of their 
albums. The best songs of the set came 
from their latest album, The Man Who
Built America. Sure The Boy Was Green 
from the groups second album, Aliens, was 
also well done. Its too bad they couldnt 
have played in front of a larger, more 
enthusiastic crowd, but by the end of 
their set, they had most of the audiences 
undivided attention.
A half hour after Horslips left the stage, 
the curtains rose to reveal the members of 
Roxy Music performing in front of a 
bizarre, drugged-out back-drop. Tall, thin, 
silver triangles lined the stage, and a large 
white and silver staircase seemed to go up 
to the sky. During the opening number, 
wavering lights floated across the back
drop. The first few songs were from their 
new album, Manifesto, including the title 
track. The best performed song from that 
album was Aint That So, a beaty (as are 
all Roxy songs) rock and roller that went 
over well with the audience. Out of the 
Blue was done near the beginning of the 
set. It sparked up the audience who seemed 
to be unfamiliar with the new material. 
Mother of Pearl was another favorite 
done early in the show. At the end of that 
number, a projected scene of fast-moving 
clouds flew across the back-drop at the top 
of the staircase. The special lighting effects 
Roxy used with their songs were effective 
and not overdone. The whole show was
A. B. Coffeehouse
presents
MACHAEL MARLIN
juggler
and
comedian
Thursday 8 pm 
in the Tent
Spring Carnival '79
professional and well-paced.
Ferry, MacKay, and Manzanera were 
all wearing Forties-style sports suits. 
Vocalist Bryan Ferry looked incredibly 
lanky, prancing around in his bright red 
suit. His voice was in top form and he 
appeared relaxed and comfortable moving 
on the stage. Ferrys technique of using 
facial expressions' and pantomine blends 
well with his unique voice and creates a 
strong front for the band. Andy MacKay 
played some excellent saxophone and 
clarinet. His high piercing solos trademark 
most Roxy songs, and with his crewcut, 
big band era sports suit, stocky frame, and 
j-adio-amplified sax, he was a bizarre 
sight to see jumping around on stage.
Guitarist Phil Manzanera (with short, 
combed-back hair, beard, and a moustache) 
was not trying to be the center of attention 
during the first half of the show. One of 
the masters of avante-garde guitar, he 
appeared to be incredibly laid back instrumentally for about the first forty-five min
utes of the show, choosing instead to play 
with his cabinet of synthesizers at his right, 
and his board of guitar synthisizers at his 
feet. But during the very moody and 
effective In Every Dream Home A Heart
ache, Manzanera let loose with a violent, 
screaming solo that would make Robert 
Fripp green with envy. The solo turned the 
song into the highlight of the evening. 
From then on he did one blazing solo after 
another, including an amazing duel lead 
with MacKay on sax.
The fans were on their feet when Roxy 
broke into Love Is The Drug, and they 
stayed standing for the final song, 
Editions Of You, and the energetic en
core Do The Strand. During the last 
song, the band displayed more energy than 
during all the previous songs and I thought 
for sure that they would continue to go 
into some more favorites like Prarie 
Rose or Both Ends Burning, but the 
lights went on after the one encore.
After the show I went backstage and 
talked with horn player Andy MacKay
about what the band was up to now that 
they were back together again. I asked him 
why the members of Roxy Music decided 
to get back together.
We never really broke up, he answer
ed,we just decided to take a break for a 
year that turned into three years.
Before coming to Pittsburgh, Roxy had 
been playing to packed houses throughout 
Europe. As a matter of fact, until they 
came to Pittsburgh, they had sold out all 
their American shows, too.
Pittsburghs always been dificult, 
added MacKay.
MacKay is one of the original members 
of Roxy Music, along with Ferry, Man
zanera, and Paul Thompson (drums), and 
all apperared on the first Roxy Music al
bum in 1972. MacKay said that the reason 
Roxy Music wasnt appreciated more in 
their early years was because weve always 
been ahead of fashion in rock and never 
behind. The thing was, two years after 
wed do something, someone else would 
do it and everyone would say,Isnt that 
great, even though wed done it years 
before.
Tonight we did a lot of songs that are 
popular in Europe. We havent had time 
yet to learn all the songs that are popular 
in America. We almost did Thrill Of It All 
but at the last second we decided we 
werent ready to do it yet.
Roxys current tour includes twentythree more dates in the U.S., then a week 
in Japan, and finally theyll close the tour 
with two weeks in Britain, the only 
European country they havent played in
yet. MacKay said that they will all start 
working on a new album as soon as the 
tour is complete.
I hope Roxy Music will come back to 
Pittsburgh on their next tour, and I hope 
theyre greeted with a better reception 
than this year, because these days, 
performances this professional and in
volving are few and far between.
Roxy Music gave one of the most professional and exciting shows this year.
Thinking about moving OFFCAMPUS
What: THE OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING OPTIONS ARE?
Find out: How Daniels can help!
How to deal with realtors!
What students are experiencing
Where: DANIEL'S REALTY, Oakland Office, 308 McKee Place, Open Daily9 a.m. to 6 p.m,
CALL: 681-9256
NOW RENTING FOR SEPTEMBER lf OCCUPANCY
OUR 175 FURNISHED AND UNFURNISHED APTS. ARE REGISTERED 
WITH THE UNIVERSITY OFF CAMPUS HOUSING OFFICE
REGISTER FOR "SHARE-AN-APARTMENT" 
ROOMMATE APT. REFERRALS AVAILABLE  FREE 
SUMMER SUBLETTING SERVICE FREE 
ALSO EFF. APTS. 318 N. NEVILLE ST. 681-0186
photo by Alan Spero

---------------------------------------------------

AN EVENING
with
DAVE BRUBECK
Friday, April 20th  8 P.M
CARNEGIE MUSIC HALL  Reserve Se
SPRING CARNIVAL 
CONCERT 1979
Tickets: $4.00 with college f.D. 
Available at Skibo Desk
Listen for Dave Brubeck special on WRCT, Sat., April 14th 
Copies of his "Live At Montreux" LP will be given away

---------------------------------------------------

___________________________SPORTS
BUGGY FEVER RUNNING RAMPANT
M,e following is an exclusive TARTAN 
Urerview with Marianne Dwyer, 1979 
Ijeepstak.es Chairperson.
I^RTAN: Well Marianne, how is buggy
business this year?.
): Oh, its going pretty well, smoothly.
{ should say. So far we havent had any 
major accidents or messups this year, 
and everyone has been extremely co
operative, including the city road crew. 
vRTAN: How so?
o ns Well, before free rolls began, I con
tacted the city, had a few strings pulled, 
and managed to entice the city enough 
to get them to cold patch the horren
dous potholes which plagued the buggy 
course.
JvRTAN: How long did it take the city 
to comply with your demand? 
I D: It wasnt actually a demand, but they 
J were out and working on the potholes 
I within two days of my appeal.
ARTAN: So, potholes were a major
I concern?
D: Most definitely. It was essential that 
they be reparied,and soon!
I ART AN: What, exactly, do you do with 
your power as Sweepstakes Chairperson? 
D: Well, I meet with all the Buggy
Chairmen on campus every Sunday 
night to discuss free-rolls and to inform 
them of any rule changes or require
ments. We had 7 or 8 meetings last 
semester to kind of prepare for Sweep
stakes because everything moves so 
quickly during the weeks before Spring 
Carnival that its difficult to procrasexchanges and timing than on physical conditioning.
Two Pi Lam pushers hitch a ride on the "Magic Carpet " which is perhaps the most economical 
buggy on the course. If it proves unsuccessful on race day, it can always serve as next year's Home
coming float.
tinate. I have been a very busy person 
these past few weeks getting and keep
ing things organized. Ive also met with 
buggy drivers on two occasions to 
review the rules and inform them of any 
rule changes.
TARTAN: Do you have any assistants?
MD: Yes. I work in conjunction with the 
safety chairmanDave Lamont, and 
Design ChairmanTim Bracco, to cover 
all phases of Sweepstakes competition.
TARTAN: What preparations must be
done for race day?
MD: Ive got to get timers, course mar
shalls, alumni course judges, leading and 
trailing cars, etc ... .
TARTAN: Is communication a problem?
MD: It could be, but thanks to the Tech 
Amateur Radio Club (W3DC), it is 
handled quite effectively. I owe these 
people a lot of thanks for volunteering 
to come out to the free rolls. Without 
the Radio Club, things would be a lot 
more confusing and time consuming. 
They are strategically stationed along 
the course to relay information along 
channels.
TARTAN: I dont want to put you on
the spot, but I will nonetheless. Any 
predictions for race day?
MD: I knew this was coming! You had to 
ask didnt you? Well, Ill have to go with 
the organizations which have enjoyed 
success in the recent past. Pika, Beta 
and CIA should be strong again this 
year, following by Sigma Nu, Phi Kap 
and SAE; not necessarily in that order!
Buggy pride: motivation in a traditional way
by Barry Vukoder
Why do people put huge amounts of 
ne into preparation of a fancy go-cart? 
Biy do they research for better methods 
of faster rolling, easier pushing and better 
dlsign, often in favor of academic time re
tirements? Why do they relinquish hours 
of sleep so as to attend push practice late
 night and rise early for free roll with the 
In? And finally why do they contribute 
their hard-earned money to a buggy rather 
an other endeavors? As silly as the ans
wer may sound, it is true; PRIDE is the 
m tivator.
I Sure, there are several other major sour
ces of pride that a Greek-lettered society 
V each year. Some of these include 
Homecoming floats, Greek Sing, Booth, 
e of rush class, and intramural
competition. But none compare to the 
pride generated by being a competitive or
ganization in Sweepstakes. The reason 
for this truth is not precisely clear. Maybe 
it is because more Alumni return to cam
pus every year to the buggy races than any 
other event. Maybe it is because the Alum
ni will never let the brothers live down a 
bad performance. Maybe it is because a 
poor showing puts a huge damper on the 
enjoyment a Carnival weekend can gener
ate. Or, maybe it is because buggy races 
are a-unique event in which only CarnegieMellon University students are able to tell 
the rest of the nation about. How much 
more motivated one may be to relate a race 
to an alien resident if he can say that he 
helped build, push, or design a winning
buggy. I imagine all of these combine to 
contribute toward the all-out effort each 
competitive Greek organization makes.
One factor that has yet to be 
is the competitive spirit which exists bet
ween organizations. Such rivalries as Beta 
vs. PhiKap, Pika vs. SN, ATO vs. SAE exist 
and grow every year. All desire to have the 
bragging attributed to being the Sweep
stakes victor for that year. In addition to 
intra-Greek rivalries, a most competitive 
spirit exists between the leading Greek 
organizations and CIA (Carnegie Involve
ment Association). This occurs because all 
of the effort in building and designing a 
buggy in a Greek organization can be at
tributed to only its members and alumni. 
However, even though this fact may also
be true of CIA, it is also the only serious 
effort the organization works on all year. 
This reason is the major cause of the high
ly competitive feelings between many org
anizations and CIA. However, I believe that 
these feelings are healthy and helpful in 
contributing toward more exciting compe
tition on race day. The better your rival ap
pears, the more effort your organization is 
going to add to its entry in the races.
As the day of truth approaches ever 
closer, buggy secrets become more con
cealed, pushers more prepared, and tension 
and anticipation rise to the point of over
flow. Just remember, and try to under
stand, that all of this work, competition, 
feelings of past loyalty, hinge on the allpowerful motivator, called PRIDE.
esign chairman speaks
Bugy Design Chairman Tim Bracco has 
ttnounced that design competition will 
on Thursday at 12:00 noon in 
Bustle Hall. Sixteen buggies will be judged 
Jis year on such criteria as aerodynamics, 
Bight, safety, craftsmanship, and pushab|ity.
9 ^rehminary judging lasts approximately
*-20 minutes with each buggy chairmanBing
pick the top six according to the number 
of points awarded. These six are then 
reviewed solely by the judges for 45 to 60 
minutes and, again, points are awarded. 
For a buggy to be considered for a design 
award, it must finish in the top six on the 
final race day. If it does not, it is disquali
fied, and the buggy with the next highest 
point total is considered in its place. Good 
Luck.
Buggy predictions
The Sweepstakes competition for this 
year should, again, provide the campus 
with many exciting moments. However, 
according to expert buggy commentator 
and mystic mullah, Crystal Bailer, we 
should expect no surprises. She seems to 
think that the strong shall get stronger and 
the weak will stay weak. A close look into 
the future reveals the following reading:
Buggy Predictions
1. Beta- will remain the favorite until de
throned (do I hear an echo?)
2. Pika- Betta beata Beta
3. CIA- a little Black Magic and a lot of de
sire to top third.
4. Phi Kappa Theta- lookingood, but needs 
a new wardrobe.
5. Sigma Nu- have a nice time and be care
ful.
6. SAE- close but no cigar.a presentation for his buggy. The
*ges, appointed by the Design Chairman,  close Dut no C1gar/,Earl J. Birdy Classic" to grace campus
ct
A new tradtion, the Earl J. Birdy Open 
lf Tournament will begin Sunday April 
at the Schenley Park golf course. Prior 
this year this evenl was merely the IM 
t tournament, but with the endorsement 
the honorable Mr. Birdy it should reach 
w heights of prestige.
AH students, faculty, and staff are en111 aged to participate as individuals or as
teams. Eighteen holes will be played at 
Schenley Park and one must pay his/her 
own expenses. At the conclusion of play, 
Mr. Birdy will autograph scorecards and 
present the winners trophies.
Watch the TARTAN next week for 
more details on starting time. Please direct 
all your questions to Mr. Birdy. When 
asked to comment on the tournaments
success Mr. Birdy said It may not be as 
big as the Bob Hope Desert Classic, but I 
have just as good a sense of humor.
Mr. Birdy also mentioned that the Intra
mural Sports Board will hold elections on 
Thursday April 26 at 12:30 to determine 
who will be the 1978-1979 IM Man of the 
Year and who will succeed Bob McNale as 
the IM board president.
Nominations may be submitted at the 
IM office in the Skibo gym. Please en
courage someone to participate. All frater
nity reps, dorm reps, and other board 
members must attend. This is the most im
portant meeting of the year!
Also for IM board members the annual 
IM dinner will be held Wednesday May 2, 
see Mr. Birdy for details.

---------------------------------------------------

The Mellon Banking Card
It could change the wayyou bank.
Now with our Mellon Banking Card, you 
can bank 24 houfs a day. You can make deposits or 
withdraw needed cash from your checking or savings accounts. 
And you can transfer money between them. Any time. 
Day or night. Weekends or holidays. 
You can even make installment or mortgage loan payments.
.-s banking when you need i.
You wont have to worry about getting to the bank before it closes. 
And you wont have to rush to make a transaction. Getting caught short of cash 
on a weekend or any time can be a thing of the past. 
Because now your bank is open 24 hours a day. Every day.
We can do even more for you in he fuure.
Right now our 24-hour Banking.Terminals arc open and operating throughout 
the area in twenty conv enient locations. This means many banking services 
are av ailable on a 24-hour basis with your Mellon Banking Card.
Join he people who already have one.
Stop at a Mellon Bank office near you and ask about the Mellon Banking Card.
Its free.. another way Mellon Banking helps you do more with your money.
This is Mellon Banking
Member FP1C
Page 24TARTANApril 17, 1979
This years Intramural Track Meet will 
be held Wednesday April 25, starting at 
4:30 PM. As the IM board plans for the 
biggest meet ever held, there will be few re
quirements to be filled by the competing 
teams in order to facilitate the smooth run
ning of the event.
All teams may have no more than 20 
participants. Each participant may enter as 
many as he/she wishes. Additional runners 
may run as B team for scoring purposes' 
or run individually.
Each team must submit a copy of their 
rosters and those events each member will
ORDER OF EVENTS1 Mile Run5:10Shot Put4:30100 Yard Dash5:20High Jump4:30 440 Yard Dash5:35
;est ever
Long Jump4:30880 Yard Dash5:45120 Yard Low Hurdles 
880 Relay
4:45
5:00
220 Yard Dash 
1 Mile Relay
6:00
6:15
Camegie-Mellon University Intramural Track & Field Records
participate in at 4:00 PM, the day of theEVENTTIMEYEARNAMEingv
meet. After the team rosters are submitted,100 Yard Dashl'V1975P.Culleneta
a particpant may only compete for that220 Yard Dash22.61976P. Wardeta
team on which he is registered and no440 Yard Dash52.81978R. SmithSAF,
changes to the roster will be permitted.880 Yard Run2:04.71975M.Vranderceta
Individual particpants do not have to1 Mile Run4:25.01976Pozefsky Independent
register for an event until just prior to the120 Yard Low Hurdles13.851966CarreraE.Js.
actual race. Once an event is commenced,880 Yard Relay1:37.51971 ClayDonnelly NilesBTP
no additional entrants will be permitted.1 Mile Relay3:43.6Hershberger
Due to the lack of batons, all relay teams1978J DummCIAshould supply their own baton. The dayS. Medvetz R- VanAtta R. Parker
for rain make-ups is Friday, April 27th.Shot Put41%1973R. LagattaATOFor answers to any questions see RayLong Jump2151964Ramey Civil Hammers
Smith or call 681 - 8199.High Jump601978T. ClanceyCIA
RE-UP NOW FOR THE NEW COMPUTERIZED FOOD SERVICE SYSTEM - FALL 79

---------------------------------------------------

April 17, 1979-TARTAN-Page 25
CMU & Case trackmen run away with PAC relays
Last Saturday saw the Tartan thinclads 
continue their winning ways as they sur
prisingly tied perennial powerhouse, Case 
Western Reserve, 90-90 in the PAC 
relays. The Tartans placed first in five out 
of fourteen events and managed third 
place or better in ten events in the annual 
meet.
CMU took first place in both the javelin 
(Wagner, Hedrick, Conrad) and the discus 
(Hedrick, Hall, Grindel), and garnered a 
second place in the shot put. This is quite 
surprising as the Tartans havent been par
ticularly strong in the weight events in past 
seasons. CMUs 440 relay team (Giansante, 
Obrien jBuehla Halinan) edged Hiram and 
tied a school record with an outstanding
time of 43.3 seconds. Hiram hadnt been 
beaten in the 440 relay since CMU entered 
the PAC. The distance medley and 4 mile 
relay saw the Tartans sweep the field in 
respectable times. Steve Faloon cruised 
to a win in the 10,000 meters, one of only 
two individual events in the meet, in a 
fast 33-45.
Outstanding individual performances 
were turned in by Craig Woolheater and 
freshman sprinter Ken Halinan. In the 
course of the afternoon, Woolheater ran a 
4:31.5 mile for the winning distance med
ley team, and an hour later turned in a 
4.27.3 mile for the victorious 4 mile relay 
team. Quite a performance. However, he
wasnt finished yet, 10 minutes later, he 
registered a 2:03.5 in the 880 to bolster 
the two mile relay team to a second place 
finish.
Halinan also had a busy day. He an
chored the mile relay team with a 48.9 
second leg, bolted from fourth to first 
position to anchor the record tying 440 
relay team, and moments later ran a 440 
in the sprint medley. Other good showings 
were turned in by Pete Hall in the discus 
(140 3). Steve Holmes in the triple jump 
(43 6), and Joe Wagner in the javelin 
(177 3). Dario Donatelli and Larry 
Gordon opened up big leads in the distance 
medley and 4 mile relay to help CMU coast
to victories in both. Coach Gary Meckley 
commented. I was very pleased and sur
prised with the teams performance. I hope 
the confidence that the first two meets 
have given the team will inspire us to do 
even better ... we have a very good chance 
of taking the conference championship 
if we can avoid injuries.
Surprisingly, the competition in the 
PAC relays was relatively balanced. In past 
years, a few teams have virtually domi
nated the event. But with the emergence of 
CMU as a serious contender, the tide has 
shifted somewhat in favor of a more 
competitive conference. The Tartans will 
face Thiel and John Carroll at JC in a tri
meet next Saturday, April_21*
Slip yourself 
a Mickey's
1
Big Mouth from Mickey's Malt Liquor
THE MEAN CRfcfiM
1978 G HEILEMAN BREWING CO . INC . LA CROSSE. WISCONSIN AND OTHER CITIES
Here is a look at some of this year's record number of softball teams. As softball season con
tinues, each team computes fiercely to claim the IM championship in their division. On Saturday 
the Old Masters were defeated by the W.K. Yankees, and in women's play the Allstars won by 
forfeit.
Theres a healthy 
career for you 
in Allied 
Health Sciences.
Earn a Bachelor of Science Degree 
at Thomas Jefferson University: 
College of Allied Health Sciences.
It shouldn't surprise you to find 
out that we're tops in the 
related health sciences field. 
In fact, what our professionals 
know about health sciences 
could start you on a fascina
ting, fulfilling career. Call or 
write for more information 
today.
Admissions Office 
College of Allied 
Health Sciences 
Thomas Jefferson 
University 
Philadelphia,
PA 19107
(215) 928-8891

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTS.CLASSIFIED ADS -------
Classified Announcements:
Deadline, Wednesday, noon. Rate - $.10 
word. Address all classifieds to TARTAN 
Business Manager.
Roses are red
Violets are blue 
Yes Dubin
This poem's for you.
classifieddubs
Oakland furnished one bedroom & effi
ciencies. $200 to 220 + elec. Close to 
everything. 462-7319 3-5 PM. After 5 PM 
362-8887.
SUBLET: Furnished 3 bedroom apartment
for $87/month, utilities included. Above 
Gino and Pete's. Call Jeanne 683-8493.
One or two female roommates to share
nicely furnished apartment located in Oak
land. Option to rent in September. Call 
687-4631.
Need rommate for three bedroom apart
ment May 1st through the school year. 
Cheap. Call 521-6968.
Four Chatham Coeds looking for a summer
sublet. Call 665-1492 or 665-1655. 
INTERCULTURAL HOUSE. Openings for
students from all racial, cultural backrounds, American, international. Furnish
ed, carpeted rooms, five evening meals: 
$39.60/week (double), $52.96/week (sin
gle). 272 North Dithridge. 361-3180. 
683-6145,682-9504.
Live in northern or central Jersey and can't
get your stuff home for summer? Rent 
space in our truck. We're experienced 
movers and charge reasonable rates. Call 
Bruce at 578-4607 or Eric at 578-4611 
for more information.
FOR SALE: Pair of high-efficiency Mag
num speakers in Excellent condition 
1 %" horn tweeter, 13'' woofer, equaliza
tion settings on speaker back  originally 
$85 each, asking $110 for the pair. Call 
Don at 682-9580 for info.
MUST SELL: Panasonic 8-track playrecord deck in great shape  $60. Also, 
35 45-minute Scotch Dyna-Range 8-track 
tapes with pre-recorded music  $70. 
Will sell both for $100 flat. For details, 
call Ed at 683-8546.
Stereo speakers for sale: excellent quali
ty, condition. Reasonable price. Ellen at 
687-0458.
Slightly damaged but still usable sofa-bed
for sale. Price very negotiable. Call 683- 
9807.
'77 VW Rabbit for sale. 2 dr, hatch back.
Gas engine; 17,000 miles, garage kept, one 
owner$3,700. Call 563-2567 after 6 PM.
LOST: Cross Pen, Silver Initials S.K.B.
Reward Offered. Call 3998.
This invitation is VALID for a FREE
SUMPTUOUS VEGETARIAN DINNER 
(worth $5.50). Every Monday thru Satur
day at 6 PM at the International Society 
for Krishna Consciousness, 4626 Forbes 
Ave. (next to Beto's Pizza). Tel.: (412) 
683-7700 
Speedo:
Go for it!
TST
On Wednesday, April 25, CMU's Club
Francophone presents "Ma Nuit Chez 
Maud" (My Night at Maud's) a movie by 
Eric Rohmer. Starring Jean-Louis Trintignant and Francoise Fabian. $1 with CMU 
ID. $1.50 without. 8 PM in DH 2210. 
SDC OFFICE HOURS. The Students' 
Dorm Council has established office hours 
in room 55, Skibo (x2114) during these 
times: Monday 3:45 to 4:45, PM, Tues
day 1:30 to 2:30, Wednesday 12:15 to 
1:15, Thursday 1:30 to 2:30, and Friday 
10:30 to 11:30 AM. Any undergraduate 
dormitory resident is invited to stop by 
or call during the above times to discuss 
(complain about?) any aspect of living 
on campus.
Name a balloon! Come to Skibo Desk to
put your name on a postcard to go up on a 
balloon at the Carnival Opening Ceremony.
AIESEC-CMU, the International Associa
tion of Students in Economics and Manage
ment, meets every Wednesday, 4:30 PM 
in Skibo 11. The campus community is 
welcome.
The International Students Organization
meets every Wednesday in Skibo Room 17 
at 7:00 p.m. All Students Welcomed. 
SCOTCH 'N SODA SCRIPT REVIEW!
Script Review is coming! Scripts for the 
1980 Spring Musical will be solicited. Book 
shows and Musical Reviews complete 
scripts and scores preferred but idea 
sketches acceptable Saturday April 28, 
1979. Funded by Student Senate.
H&SS Students: The H&SS College
Student Advisory committee (SAC) meets 
every Thursday in the H&SS college lounge 
(BH 254-C). It provides a means of student 
input into decisions made by the college. 
If you want a voice in your future and 
your college's future, come to the next 
meeting.
Holiness is not the private domain of nuns,
monks, and priests. Christ's command, 
"you must be made perfect as your heaven
ly Father is perfect," is meant for every
one. The Fellowship of Saint Don Bosco 
is a group of students seeking holiness. 
Together we may be able to do what alone 
is very hard. Our meetings are every Wed
nesday, at 10.00 PM at Tech House (next 
to Donner).
OSA-P Meering Wednesday April 18, 8:30
PM HUNT LIBRARY MULTIPURPOSE 
ROOM. Warren J. Smith, president elect 
Optical Society of America: "Why Is Lens 
Design and Where Has It Been Lately?". 
PUBLIC INVITED.
The Finance Committee of Student
Senate meets Thursdays in Skibo, 
Room 13 at 7 PM. Meetings are open 
to the public.
W3VC Meeting April 19 for all radio oper
ators working the Carnival. All operators 
must attend in HH 401 at 6:00 PM. If un
able, call X4067.
W3VC Meeting tonight in HH 401 at 
8:00 PM. All people interested in ham 
radio are welcome to attend.
Society of Physics Students Lecure: Dr. 
Julius Ashkin, Physics Dept., CMU, will 
speak on "Observational Support for Ein
stein's Theory of Gravity" Thursday, April 
19, 1979 at 4:30 PM, sch 7316. FREE 
AND OPEN TO THE PUBLIC.
Einstein Centennial Lecture: "Einstein's 
Contributions to the Theory of Quantized 
Radiation." These are the theories which 
make lasars, photoelectric cells, x-ray 
equipment, and other wonders possible. 
The lecture will be by Dr. Matthew Garbuny of Westinghouse Research and Devel
opment Center. It will be held at 4:30 PM 
on Thursday, April 26 in 7500 Science 
Hall. All are welcome. Sponsored by the 
CMU Chapter of the Society of Physics 
Students.
general
John Crecine, Dean of H&SS holds open
office hours Tuesday, 1:30 to 3:30 PM. 
PEER HELP is students trained to listen
and help you make your own decisions. 
For counseling, campus information, tu
toring, health and law referrals, emergency 
loans, or just someone to talk to, stop by 
the Center, Baker Hall 150-A, or phone,
621-9900. Hours: Weekdays10:30 to 
5:30; Sundays to Thursdays7:30 to 
11:30. Fridays and Saturdays7:30 to 
12:30.
The Communication Skills Center offers
individual instruction for students at all 
levels and in all colleges who need help 
with any aspect of writing. You can get 
tailor-made programs focused on specific 
writing and thinking skills, help in pre
paring and revising assignments, help with 
research projects, applications and resumes, 
and computer-assisted instruction. Call or 
come in to make an appointment with a fa
culty member: 161 Baker Hall, x2924, 
Monday through Friday 9:00 to 4:00. 
SENIOR RECITAL  Nancy Anick, clari
netist, will present a senior recital on Sat
urday, April 21, 1979, at 3 PM, in Alumni 
Concert Hall, Fine Arts Building. Featured 
will be works by Weber and Milhaud. The 
recital is free and open to the public. 
Concerned residents of Hazelwood, Oak
land, Squirrel Hill, Hill District, Shadyside 
and Greenfield are urged to attend a Town 
Meeting April 18 at 7:30 PM to voice their 
opinions about mental health/mental retar
dation/drug and alcohol (MH/MR/D&A) 
services in Allegheny County.
The first summer session at Point Park 
College, beginning Tuesday, May 29, 
includes such classes as Principles of 
Economics, English Literature, United 
States History, Reporting, Accounting, 
Philosophy, Psychology,Introduction
Biology and Photography.
Also, Basic Electronics, Earth Science, 
Radio and TV Writing, Statistics, State 
and Local Government, Library Research 
Methods, Money and Banking and the 
Comtempory English and Continental 
Novel.
Special interest classes include "U. 
S.-China Relations," which will explore the 
changing politics between the two power 
nations, and "Africa: Land in Ferment," 
which will examine the conflict and prob
lems of this developing continent.
Registration for the first summer 
session, which runs through July 6, begins 
on Tuesday, April 17. The second summer 
session will run from July 9-August 17.
For registration information, contact 
the Office of Part-Time Studies, Point 
Park College at 391-4-100, Extension 349.
The Minority Services Office of Point 
Park College will sponsor a Black Aware
ness day on Monday, April 23, followed by 
an International Students Day on Tuesday, 
April 24. International Students Day, 
sponsored by the International Students 
Affair Center, will emphasize the contribu
tions of students from other countries to 
Point Park College. An international party 
will be held Tuesday evening in the third 
floor Lawrence Hall ballroom.
Wednesday, April 25 is Entertainment 
Day at Point Park College and a TGIW 
event in the Snack Bar. The students will 
be entertained by a hypnotist and magician 
from 11 to 1p.m., followed by an accoustic 
duo from 1 to 3 p.m. The Point Park 
College Singers will perform at 8 PM that 
evening.
Friday, April 27, a "Toga or Not Toga" 
dance will be held with the music of 
Boogie Man Disco and his Multi-Media 
Show. A Spring Week king and queen will 
be crowned, with one-cent charge per 
vote going to the March of Dimes.
Other specialities for the week included 
T-shirts with a Spring Week logo and a 
Superstar Competition directed by the 
Recreation Center and USG. The week 
ends with a picnic at South Park on Sat
urday, April 25, from 1 to 7 PM. 
Announcing a nutrition course (6 weeks) 
April 24 thru May 29, Tuesdays 12:00 to 
1:00 PM. Sponsored by the Association of 
Professional Office Women in Education. 
Fee: $20 per person. If interested, please 
register before Friday April 20 at the Gym 
room 104.
Assertiveness Training. Learn about ways
to deal constructively with anger and other 
feeling we have been taught are socially un
acceptable. Here's your chance to learn 
how to express the unique person you are. 
First Class: Monday, May 14 at 7:30 -
9:30 P.M. 6 sessions in 4 weeks on Mon
days and Wednesdays.
Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh will hold a 
Used Books Sale in the basement of the 
East Liberty Branch, Baum and Whitfield 
Streets, April 19-21. Hours will be: Thurs
day and Friday, 5:00 to 8:00 PM, and Sat
urday, 10:00 to 4:00.

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTSft. CLASSIFIED A DS ----
gOOK and RECORD SALE at St. An
drew's Lutheran Church, Centre and Morewood Avenues, Shadyside. Saturday, April
21 10 AM to 3 PM. Receipts for Lutheran 
University Center. Fair and attractive 
prices.
Did you miss the solar eclipse on February
,2gth? Then come and see it on Wednesday 
April 18th in DH 2315 at 8:00 PM. Profes
sor Truman P. Kohman will discuss the 
event and show slides which he took at 
Goldendale, Washington. Sponsored by the 
CMU Astronomy Club.
Catalog of unique, nostalgic, and specialty items - many Collector Items with good 
investment possibilities. Items include: 
coins, stamps, antiques, artwork, comic 
books, old records, old magazines, old 
photos, books, buttons, and many others.I
 Send $.50 (deductible with first order) 
to: Frank Louis, P.O. Box 548, Allwood 
Station, Clifton, New Jersey 07012. 
Homemaking. The penny saving way: food 
and clothing shopping. Learn from an 
expert how to cut cost on food and cloth
ing. Nutrition (needed vitamins plus good
taste) and basic home sewing (machine or 
by hand). While you watch T. V., sew a 
toddler's skirt or summer top. Learn to 
make the most of your time and energy. 
First Class: Monday, May 14 at 12:00 to 
 2:00 P.M. Call 661-6066 to reserve space 
fl in class.
 "NOW  Past, Present, and Future" will be
 the topic of the April 10, 1979 program
 meeting of the Squirrel Hill NOW chapter
 at the Squirrel Hill Urban Coalition at
 2012 Murray Ave. at 8:00 PM.
I Information on NOW's history and de velopment will be provided by Flo Scar dina. Julie Seibel will describe the philoso phies of NOW and explain the many issues
 with which the feminist organization is
 concerned.
 The World Federalists Association of Pittsburgh announces Mr. Norman Cousins, 
Chairman of the Editorial Board of the
 ''Saturday Review", will be the speaker at 
the 30th annual spring dinner of the World 
Federalists Association of Pittsburgh. The 
dinner is being held on Wednesday evening, 
May 2, at the William Penn Hotel. Reservations for the dinner may be made through 
the Federalists headquarters at 1004 CenHtury Building, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15222  
n Jphone 471-7852.
I - ! h0 Pittsburgh Psychoanalytic Center,
 Inc. will be sponsoring a seminar entitled 
gjl 'The Influence of Television Upon the 
HAmerican Family" on Thursday, April 26 
^from 7:30-9:30 PM at the University and
 City Ministries, Fifth Avenue and Bellefield 
I Street.
1 The speakers, both University of Pitts^burgh professors, are Fred M. Rogers, Presi dent, Family Communications, Inc., and 
Hi Margaret B. McFarland, Ph.D.
W There is a fee of $2 for the general pub lic and $1 to Center members. Those at [tending are requested to use the Bellefield 
 Street entrance.
The City of Pittsburgh Department of
rarks and Recreation will sponsor the 1979 
City-Wide Kite Contest on Saturday, April
 7 at Point State Park beginning at 11:00
E dit In case of rain, the contest will be
 rescheduled for April 24, 1979.
 Residents of all ages are invited to enter
 handmade kites. No commercial or store bought varieties will be eligible for awards.
 Contestants in three age classifications, 
12 years of age and older, under 12 years
 and Senior Citizens will be judged in six
 different <ategoiit;s: Best Flying Kite,
 Pull, Height and Dr-tame. Construction,
 Design and Decc-a'ion and Originality. 
ffi|There will be an Open House given by the 
Cesarean Parents Group of the Pittsburgh
 Organization for Childbirth Education, Inc.
on Tuesday, April 17, 1979 at 8:00 PM in 
the Community Room of Northway Mall.
In addition to the discussion given by a 
prominent Pittsburgh obstetrician, there 
will be a question and.answer period on the 
Cesarean Birth experience.
The primary purpose of this Open 
House is to provide information about 
educated Cesarean childbirth through the 
excellent presentation, "Cesarean Birth 
Experience.'' Light refreshments will be 
served and free packets containing 
interesting prenatal information will be 
distributed.
Additional information about this Open 
House and information about POCE classes 
and activities is available by calling 243- 
7623.
Jogging, one of the most visible signs
of Americans shaping up, will be the focus 
of McKeesport Hospital's observance of 
National Hospital Week - a "Run For 
Your Health" May 6 at the city's Renziehausen Park.
Registration forms for the 5km and 10 
km races (3.1 and 6.2 miles) have been 
distributed to sports strores, schools, 
colleges, YMCA's and running clubs in the 
area. Cost to the runner in registrering for 
the race is $3.50. A special race logo has 
been designed for imprint on T-shirt that 
will be awarded every registered runner 
who completes the race.
The race will begin at 10:30 AM from 
the Main Pavilion and proceed through the 
park and the McKeesport Penn State 
Campus.
The Art for Passavant Committee will ac
cept artists' original paintings on Sunday, 
April 29, 1979, from 2 to 4 PM in the As
sembly Hall of North Hills Passavant Hos
pital. Those paintings selected are exhibit
ed throughout the hospital for 90 days. 
Passavant receives a percentage of the sale 
price of the paintings. Requirements for 
exhibiting are: all works must be original, 
priced, and titled; paintings must be larger 
than 8" x 10"; paintings must be backed, 
framed and ready for hanging; and subject 
matter must be pleasing to patients and 
visitors. For further information, artists 
should contact the Auxiliary - Volunteer 
Office, 366-1000 or 931-3840, Ext. 310.
A search is on for creative writers of all
ages and from all walks of life for original 
stories, poems, novels, essays, lyrics, and all 
other forms of creative expression for pos
sible publication in Writers Showcase. The 
new publication was launched this month 
by Real Publishing Company. The monthly 
publication is designed to provide exposure 
for writers and to encourage and promote 
the art of .creative writing. There will be no 
charge to the author if the material is ac
cepted. Manuscripts are now being review
ed for consideration at the offices of Writ
ers Showcase, 1752 West Armitage Court, 
Addison, Illinois, 60101.
Mayor Richard Caliguiri announced the
opening of the City's Flea Market, Sunday, 
April 22, 1979 in West Park across from 
Allegheny Center Mall. Over 100 vendors 
will offer a variety of antiques, collecta
bles, clothes, homemade baked goods and 
memorabilia for sale. The Flea Market 
will operate from 10 AM until 4 PM every 
Sunday through the end of October. 
Spaces for the Flea Market are available for 
rent at $5 per day. A booth equipped with 
electricity will cost $6 per day. In the 
event of inclement weather, rainchecks will 
be honored if cancellations are received 
before noon on the Sunday in question. 
Special evening Flea Markets are scheduled 
for Thursday, June 7th and August 9th 
from 6 PM until 10 PM. Reservations for 
the Flea Market must be made in advance 
by calling 322-0443.
The Pittsburgh Print Group will present a
symposium on the topic of "Health and 
Safety in Printmaking." The discussion will 
take place at 2:00 PM on April 22, 1979 in 
the Commons Room, Arts & Crafts Cen
ter, Fifth and Shady Avenues, Oakland 
The symposium is free and open to the 
public. The Pittsburgh Print Group strong
ly urges printmakers, commercial print
ers, and others who use inks and solvents 
in their work, attend.
Two workshops that offer a behind-thescenes look, at the publishing industry 
will be given this summer by the New York 
University School of Continuing Educa
tion. The magazine publishing workshop 
will be coordinated by Leonard Mogel, 
publisher of National Lampoon and Heavy 
Metal, a science fiction fantasy magazine. 
Participating faculty members include 
J.J. Hanson, publisher of Folio Magazine; 
Jane D'Alelio, assistant art director of Na
tional Geographic World, and Michael 
Michaelson, co-founder of Games Maga
zine.
The book publishing workshop, coordi
nated by John Tebbel, professor emeritus 
of journalism, NYU, and former director 
of The Graduate Institute of Book Pub
lishing, has a faculty of more than 40 per
sons in the book publishing field. Faculty 
includes Simon Michael Bessie, senior vice 
president, Harper & Row; Marilyn Abel, 
marketing manager, Viking Penguin, and 
Herbert Addison, manager of the college 
department, Oxford University Press.
Both four-week workshops are offered 
from July 2-27. Students receive certifi
cates upon successful completion of the 
workshops. Further information may be 
obtained from the Center For Publishing, 
New York University School of Contin
uing Eduacation,'2 University Place, New 
York, N.Y. 10003 or by calling (212) 598- 
2371.
Planning to come to Cape Cod this summer
to work or play? Write now for valuable 
information pamphlet covering where to 
stay, what to expect to payfor it, where to 
start looking for work, what types of jobs 
are available, average wages, and much 
more. Send $1,00 and a self-addressed, 
stamped envelope to me...
Ms. Barbara Perfetuo 
P. O. Box 142
Hyannis, Mass. 02601
The Killington Wilderness Leadership
School offers courses in three one-week 
sessions in June which may be taken for 
two graduate or undergraduate credits in 
Environmental Education through the 
University of Vermont. Trips are scheduled 
June 6 to the Adirondack Mountains, N.Y.; 
June 14 to New Hampshire's White Moun
tains. The Wilderness Leadership School 
is a condensation of the three-year training 
program received by Killington Adventure 
trip leaders who guide wilderness back
packing excursions throughout the North
east. Tuition is $135 per session and in
cludes meals, transportation (plus pick-up 
and drop-off at Rutland, Vt., airport or bus
terminal), some equipment (hammock, 
tarp, bowl, spoon, cooking gear), and seven 
days of top quality instruction in the art of 
leading people in the wilderness. The pro
gram begins with three days of classroom 
and field study at Killington and includes a 
four-day backpack into a selected moun
tain area. College credit may be obtained 
for an additional $44 for Vermont resi
dents of $58 for nonresidents. For infor
mation contact Dave Langlois, director, 
Killington Adventure Programs, Killington, 
Vt. 05751 or call 802-422-3333 (days) or 
802-422-3139 (evenings).
Dr. Melvin Drimmer, President of the
American Forum for International Study, 
has announced that Senegal, Nigeria, Ken
ya, and Egypt will be the sites of the 
AFRICA 1979 programs of the American 
Forum.
Programs begin in July and last for 24 
days. Participants will spend three days at 
Columbia University before leaving for 
Africa.
Graduate and undergraduate credit will 
again be available from Adelphi University 
in New York. Selective scholarship assist
ance is available. Write 1001 THE LEAD
ER BUILDING, CLEVELAND, OHIO 
44114 or call (216) 621-4949.
Two new graduate Study Abroad programs
in Scotland and Japan are among the offcampus offerings this summer at New York 
University's School of Education, Health, 
Nursing, and Arts Professions.
The intensive eight-week programs offer 
the opportunity to combine advanced pro
fessional education with travel in a foreign 
country. Teachers, prospective teachers, 
language arts specialists, artists, theatre 
and curriculum directors have an oppor
tunity to observe the latest techniques de
veloped in other countries and perfect 
their skills in their chosen fields.
Further information may be obtained 
by writing to Helen J. Kelly, Director of 
Off-Campus Programs, School of Educa
tion, Health, Nursing, and Arts Professions, 
NYU, Washington Square, New York, N.Y. 
10003 or calling (212) 598-2126.
Academic Year Abroad, Inc., is happy to
announce that the very generous, anony
mous gift of twenty grants of $500 each to 
American students qualified to study in the 
Facultad de Filosofia y Letras cf the Universidad de Madrid has been renewed for 
the academic year 1979-1980. Applicants 
need not be Spanish majors but must have 
studied Spanish in college. For further de
tails send $.20 in stamps to; Spanish 
Scholarship Committee, P.O. Box 9, New 
Paltz, New York, 12561.
The Council On International Education
Exchange (CIEE) announces its AD
VANCE SUMMER SCHEDULE of charter 
flights from New York, Los Angeles and 
Oakland to Paris, Brussels, Zurich and Tel 
Aviv. "
These flights offer students the maximum 
in travel flexibility - no restrictions. Fares 
to Brussels and Paris are as low as $179 
oneway from New York and $260 from 
Los Angeles. Zurich prices start at $199 
oneway from New York and $260 from 
Lbs Angeles. And New York to Tel Aviv at 
an unbelievable $299 oneway ($599 
roundtrip).
Flight brochures are available from:
CIEE, Dept. CS 777 U.N. Plaza, New York, 
NY 10017
CIEE, 236 North Santa Cruz Avenue,Los
- Gatos, Ca. 95030
The Centre Europeen D'Echanges Universitaires in Brussel has announced a program 
of Grants-in-Aid for American-Co I lege 
juniors, seniors and graduates whose 
records and previous study of french 
qualifies them for admission to one of the 
Universitites of Paris on the Academic Year 
Abroad Program, these grants which will 
be in French Francs amount to appro
ximate $500.00 per year. Deadline for 
completed application, which include a 
Demande D'lnscription a L'Universite 
De Paris, is 15 April. To apply send letter 
stating full name, birthdate, birthplace, 
permanent address, college year and 
major, along with $.28 in stamps to:
C. E. E. U., PO Box 50, New Paltz, NY 
12561

---------------------------------------------------

upcoming events
a.b. *.
A.B. Concerts will present an evening 
with Dave Brubeck on Friday, April 20th 
at 8 PM. The concert will be at the Car
negie Music Hall. Tickets for reserve seating 
available at Skibo Information Desk.
A.B. Lectures is sponsoring Ms. Ellie 
Smeal, the current president of N.O.W. 
(National Organization of Women) on 
Tuesday, May 1, 1979, in the Skibo Ball
room, at 8 PM. This lecture is free and 
open to the campus community.
Activities Board Coffeehouse takes 
great pleasure in welcoming Michael 
Marlin, a well known juggler and comedian. 
This special coffeehouse will be presented 
in the Tent, at Spring Carnival on Thursday 
evening at 8 PM. Michael has toured a num
ber of shows including Connie Stevens. He 
has also recently appeared on the Mike 
Douglas show. Look for Michael juggling 
on Midway before the show as well!
theater...
Scotch n Soda, student run theatre 
presents Watercolors-Spring Musical 1979. 
Watercolors is an original musical that tells 
the love story of a young female artist 
growing up in the 1960's. Performances are 
April 17-21, the week of Spring Carnival, 
and will be held in the Skibo Ballroom; 
curtain time is 8:05 PM. Tickets are on sale 
at the Skibo Information Desk, and the 
Scotch n Soda ticket booth in the Baker 
Hall lobby. There will be no reserved seat
ing and tickets will be sold at the door. A 
special group rate will also be available. For 
further information contact Scotch *n 
Soda at 578-3522.
CMUs Drama Department will present 
William Shakespeares The Winters Tale 
Thursday, April 19 through Saturday, 
April 28, Kreske Theatre, college of Fine 
Arts. Tickets are available at the CFA box 
office, Monday through Friday, between 
the hours of 10 AM and 5 PM. Free with 
CMU ID.
Pittsburgh Public Theatre will present 
For Colored Girls Who Have Considered 
Suicide/When the Rainbow Is Enuf, from 
March 14 thru May 6. Seats may be reserv
ed at the Public Box Office, 323-1900.
Pittsburgh Laboratory Theatre will pre
sent Roseqcrantz and ' Guildenstem Are 
Dead from March 23 thru April 28. Cur
tain times are Thursdays and Sundays at 
8 PM and Fridays and Saturdays at 8:30 
PM. For reservations call 621-2876.
Theatre Express will present Hotel for 
Criminals on April 19-22, 26-29, and May 
3-6. Performances are Thursdays, Fridays 
and Saturdays at 8:30 PM and Sundays at
2 PM. For reservations call 621-5454.
Pittsburghs all-time box office champ 
for legitimate theatre, "The Wiz, will re
turn to Heinz Hall for four shows, April 17 
through April 19. Evening performances 
Tuesday through Thursday will begin at 
8:30 PM with the Wednesday matinee be
ginning at 2 PM. Tickets range from $12.50 
to $7 on sale at Heinz Hall and Kaufmanns. Senior citizen and student dis
count info is available by contacting Nancy
The Pittsburgh Black Theatre Dance 
Ensemble will present a show on Satur
day, April 21, at 8 PM in the Antonian 
Theatre on the Carlow College Campus in 
Oakland. Admission is $1 with Carlow ID., 
$2 adults, and children under 12 are admit
ted free. The show is sponsored by Minori
ty Affairs at Carlow College. For more in
formation call ^78-6034 or 578-6082.
The Playhouse Junior will present Han
sel and Gretel at the Hamlet Street Thea
tre from April 28. Performance times are
11 AM and 2:30 PM on Saturdays and 
2:30 PM on Sundays. For more informa
tion call 621-4445.
The City Theatre Company will present 
Table Manners, a comedy by Alan Acykboum, thru April 28. Performances are 
Wednesday thru Saturday at 8 PM, and 
Sunday at 3 PM. For reservations call 231- 
3572.
The Pittsburgh Playhouse will present 
Thornton Wilders Our Town from April 
19 thru April 29. Performances are Thurs
days thru Saturdays at the Hamlet Street 
Theatre. For more information call 621- 
4445.
May 4-6 the City Theatre Company will 
present James Rosenburgs Gladys, a play 
based on the sonnets of late writer and 
CMU professor, Gladys Schmidt. For more 
information or reservations, call 231-3752.
Dan Kamin, mime, will present a series 
of children's matinees at the Allegheny 
Theatre on Saturdays thru August 25. Per
formances are at 2 PM. For more informa
tion call 231-3572.
cinema...
SDC Presents on April 21 :
Blazing Saddles
Mel Brooks' comedy-Western will be 
shown in DH2210 at 6, 8, and 10 PM and
12 midnight. Admission is $.50 with CMU 
ID/$1 without.
The Fabulous Baron Munchausen will 
be shown April 21 at 2:30 PM in the 
Museum of Art Theatre. Admission is $1
The Big City by Satyajit Ray will be the 
next film in the Directors Series. It will be 
shown on April 19 at 8 PM in the Carnegie 
Lecture Hall. Admission is $1.
This week's movies in the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse Film Festival are: April 17, 
Death in Venice; April 18, It Happened 
One Night; April 19, The Treasure of the 
Sierra Madre; April 20, Roma; April 21, 
Cabaret; April 22, A Wedding; and April 
23, Cat and Mouse. All seats are $2 with 
two showings nightly at 7:30 and 9:30 
PM.
Jason and the Argonauts will be shown 
April 28 at 2:30 PM in the Museum of Art 
Theatre. Admission is $1.
music...
CMUs Baroque Ensemble, conducted 
by Robert Page, will present its final con
cert of the year on Wednesday, April 18 
at 8 PM in Alumni Concert Hall in CMU's 
College of Fine Arts. Members of the Pitts
burgh Flute Club and the newly formed 
Pittsburgh Chapter of the American Harp
and Harp music on Sunday, April 29th, at 
4:00 PM at the Duquesne University 
School of Music Recital Hall. Three CMU 
faculty members and four students will be 
performing at the recital. The recital is free 
and open to the public.
CMU's Cameron Choir will conclude a 
week-long tour of the eastern U.S. with a 
concert at Carnegie Music Hall. The con
cert will start at 8 PM on Sunday, April
22 and will be free and open to the public.
The popular jazz group, The Crusaders, 
will be at the Allegheny College Campus 
Center tonight, April 17th, at 9:15. Tickets 
are $7.00 and are available at National 
Record Marts. Appearing at the Decade 
club in Oakland will be the Marc Tanner 
Band. The Marc Tanner Band will be at the 
Decade on April 23rd.
Dicesare-Engler productions will present 
a number of rock concerts in April and 
May. Appearing at the Stanley theater on 
the 18th will be Barry White and his Love 
Unlimited orchestra. On the 26th April 
Wine will open for the Tubes. On the 4th 
of May will be McQuinn, Clark and Hill
man. Rick James will appear May 5th and 
Cheap Trick will be at the Stanley theater 
May 6th.
The Barbarians will appear at the Civic 
Arena on May 2nd. The groups members 
are Keith Richard, Ron Wood, Ian 
Mclagan, Stanley Clarke and "friends. 
Also appearing at the Civic Arena in May is 
Rod Stewart on the 29th. Gino Vannelli 
will be at the Civic Arena on April 25th.
Legendary pianist Vladimir Horowitz 
will appear in Pittsburgh for the first time 
in three years. The virtuoso will perform in 
recital at Heinz Hall on Sunday, October 
14 at 4 PM. Four free concerts will be 
given by the Pittsburgh Youth Symphony 
Orchestra and its Chamber Orchestra at 
the Winchester-Thurton School in its First 
Gala Festival of the Twentieth Century 
Music on May 6th and 20th at 2:30 PM, 
and May 13 and 27 at 7:30 PM.art...
Four Artists-Four Shows, a series of 
one week exhibits by Carnegie-Mellon Un
iversity graduate art students, will be on 
display at CMU's Hewlett Gallery begin
ning April 16. All shows and previews are 
free and open to the public. The Hewlett 
Gallery is located on the first floor of 
CMUs College of Fine Arts. Gallery 
hours are 10 AM to 4 PM, Monday through 
Saturday. For further information call 
Cynthia Ference, 578-2410.
Photographs from the permanent collec
tion will be exhibited in the Ground Floor 
Corridor from February 8 thru May 3. 
Gallery times are Tuesdays thru Saturdays
10 AM to 5 PM and Sundays from 1 to 6 
PM.
China Trade Porcelain from the collec
tion of Mrs. James M. Schoonmaker, Jr. 
will be displayed in the Treasure Room 
thru May 13. Gallery times are Tuesdays 
thru Saturdays from 10 AM to 5 PM and 
Sundays from 1 to 6 PM.
Carnegie Institute from March 15 thru Ap
ril 29. Galley times arc Tuesdays through 
Saturdays 10 AM to 5 PM and. Sundays
"Please Touch is the title for the one 
man-show of sculpture to be held at Pjtts 
burgh Blind Association, from now unti] 
April 30. The public is invited to view the 
exhibit in the Associations recreation 
room from 8:30 AM until 5 PM. The e*. 
hibit is the work of Stewart Suna, a stu
dent in sculpture and architecture at CMU
The Museum of Art, Carnegie Institute 
will exhibit Twentieth Century French* 
Prints in Gallery 10 from February 
through June 10. It will include prints by 
Jaques Villon, Henri Matisse, Georges 
Braque, Fernand Leger, Pierre Soulages and 
Georges Rouault. Museum hours are Tues. 
day thru Saturdays 10 AM to 5 PM ^ 
Sundays from 1 to 6 PM.
The Women's Committee of the Mu
seum of Art, Carnegie Institute has sched
uled April 23 as Senior Citizens Day at 
the Museum. This annual project of th*1 
Womens Committee is devoted to bring
ing large numbers of Senior Citizens into 
the Museum of Art and providing them 
with an afternoon of art, musical enter
tainment, guided tours and refreshments. 
Call 622-3323 for further information.
Silver in American Life: Selections 
from the Mabel Brady Garvan and other 
collections at Yale University, will premiere at the Museum of Art, Carnegie In
stitute in Pittsburgh on April 26. For ad^ 
ditional information concerning tours and 
reservations contact Mrs. Janet Schwab,
622-3286.
Selected woodblock prints by Skiko 
Munakata will be on display in die Museum 
of Art, Carnegie Institute now through 
April 29, featuring his collection, Ten 
Great Disciples. The Museum of Art is 
open Tuesdays through Saturdays from 
10:00 AM to 5:00 PM and Sundays from 
1:00 to 6:00 PM.
An unusual blend of botanical speci
mens and natural forms combined with 
printing techniques led to the creation of 
Robert Little's exhibition titled Nature 
Printing. These art works will be on dis
play in the Changing Exhibits Gallery of 
Carnegie Museum of Natural History, Car
negie Institute from now until June 10. 
The exhibition is comprised of 47 nature 
prints, many of which are available for sale. 
For more information contact Leda Hanin 
at 622-3328.
etc...
The Contemporary Dance Co. of Penn 
State University and Danceweave of New 
London, Conn. will be appearing in a 
Dance Circuit Gala Concert April 20 and 
21 at 8:00 PM in Trees Hall on the Pitt 
Campus. Tickets are $1.50. For further 
information, call 624-4395.
The International Poetry Forum will 
present Edward Braithwaite, poet, teacher, 
editor and scholor, reading his poetry n 
Wednesday, April 18, 8:00 PM in Carnegie 
Lecture Hall, Oakland. Tickets are available 
at the National Record Marts and the 
Forum office for $3.50 and $2.25 for stu
dents and senior citizens. For information,
Sieber at 281-8185.Society will present an afternoon of Flute from 1 to 6 PM.call 621-9893.
ieoooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooocx>oooooooooooooooooo^|
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE !
SKIBO 40ACAU 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
