TARTAN
FOLIOTARNAR
April 1, 1977 Volume 1 ISSUE 9 Carnegie-Mellon University Pittsburgh, Pa.
SERVING UMC 
SINCE TUESDAY
CYERT VOWS TO UNITE FRUITS AND VEGETABLES BY1980
Due to the furor over a letter printed in 
last months Tartan, President Cyert has 
issued a statement. The letter, now known 
infamously as the fruit letter, com
plained about homosexual occurence on 
campus. Letters followed ranging from 
anti-MIS/CIT, to anti- Fine Arts. Cyert, 
in an attempt to clear the air and make 
peace, held a press conference on Tuesday. 
The only weekly paper on campus, the 
Natrat showed up. Here is a partial text.
Cyert ... So Id like to see the fruits 
and vegetables on this campus as 
one big happy family.
Natrat Sir, what is your view on homo
sexuality.
Cyert I wouldnt hire anyone who goes 
to the same school as a fruit.
Natrat Sir, dont you think that that 
comment will upset the closet 
fruits, and the outgoifig letter-to 
the-editor fruits?
Cyert It could, but Im more concerned
about the vegetables. The Comp 
nerds with the pens in their 
pockets and the glasses, the wierd 
ones who dont go out on dates, 
the Chem Es who have facial 
twitches because they cant cope.
Natrat But sir . . . with views like those,
how do you expect to unite the Natrat 
campus? Cyert
Cyert Put the fruits back in the closet 
where they belong. When I first 
came here they were in the closet Natrat
doing whatever fruity things they Cyert
liked. Now with all this wildness,
Im having trouble keeping things 
orderly. Natrat
Natrat Sir, you arent labeling the entire Cyert
Fine Arts population as fruity, 
are you.?
Cyert Of course not. What do you think Natrat
I am, discriminatory? Of course 
not. But have you ever looked at 
some of those screwballs? Ever see Cyert 
how they dress?
Natrat So you like the vegetables in CIT Natrat
or MIS better then?
Cyert I didnt say that. Theres a full Cyert
crop of wierdos in that grouping 
too . . . and 1 know it. Sometimes 
when Im walking on campus, I 
just want to start punching and 
kicking those blubber-heads. They 
are also conceited. Conceited as 
all hell.
Do you like AMS?
No. And I dont like the H&SS 
students either. Why are they 
here? Who wants them?
Well then Sir, who do you like? 
The board of directors. One hell 
of a nice bunch of guys. Do they 
get copies of this paper?
Yes sir.
Good. I like all the trustees. They 
arent fruits or vegetables. Theyre 
more like poultry.
What are your plans to stop the 
squabbling between the different 
schools, sir?
Well, by 1980 Id like to see eve
ryone together as brothers.
Even the blacks and the whites 
... women and men?
OK. I take that back. We should
Natrat
Cyert
Natrat
Cyert
Natrat
Cyert
Natrat
Cyert
Natrat
Cyert
all be friends.
How do you plan to do this ar?
I dont know. Forced integration 
of the different cultures.
You mean busing?
Yea. Well put all the vegs and the 
fruits on a bus together and send 
them on a tour of Pittsburgh. Let 
them fight it out.
Are you serious?
No. The fruits would probably 
win. Theyre more active. All 
those dance and movement classes 
they have there in Fine Arts. All 
those other basket-cases do is sit 
in front of a teletyper or Physics 
book. No that isnt a good idea. 
But Ill come up with something. 
By 1980?
Maybe, if Im still here. I got an 
offer to manage a college out in 
Idaho.
Are you thinking of taking it? 
Idaho? I dont know. Potatoes 
are a bunch of vegetables, and I 
have enough of what I need right 
here.
^ _11:__jii------- iL. _i__i __A xi*. __1 MSA Turns On StudentsAt a cost of 2 million dollars, the 
Margaret Morrison building has been 
cleaned and beautified. A garden was 
planted in the courtyard, and fixtures, 
stone chunks, doors and windows were 
all replaced.
It was a tough job, but its a great 
improvement. Contractor Bill Stevens 
said.  It took twelve hours to sand blast it, 
and another six weeks to fix it up. When
asked about the cruddy classrooms and 
hallways, he was vague.
The construction crews are finally 
leaving after the six months they spent 
around Margaret Morrison. However, every 
student on campus can attest to the 
fact that the obnoxious noise of the sand 
blasting equipment was worth every blast. 
Maggie Murph is now a building we can 
be proud of.
N:*-
Two students pose in front of the newly sand blasted and refurbished Maggie Murph building.
The Middle States Association Evalua
tion Team has returned. Although they 
were here last semester reviewing and com
menting on the academic makeup of CMU, 
they have again checked into Webster Hall, 
and plan to stay until May.
They were asked back by President 
Cyert to examine and criticize the student 
population at CMU. We already know 
how the team feels about the faculty, de
partments and programs at CMU. Cyert 
said. Now were asking for direct obser
vation of the students.
The team has already begun researching 
for their report. Some of their comments 
thus far include:
- The girls are getting better here. The 
freshman class contains a score of tasty 
ones (as the team puts it) and the upper 
class women are preparing their makeup 
in a more attractive way. The committee 
also suggests that the girls go back to 
wearing miniskirts.
- The student leaders lack charisma. 
From CCCP to Student Senate, to UFO, 
the leaders lack that turn on ability. The 
committee recommends that the new stu
dent leaders should be from the Boston 
area or Plains, Georgia.
- With the warm weather approaching, 
many students will be walking barefoot. 
The committee advises that students wear 
shoes, or keep their eyes focused on the 
ground. In the evaluating teams own 
phrasing, they implore students to under
stand the situation. They said, Dog dew, 
cut glass, human spittle, car drippings, and 
pebbles can damage the soft tissue on the 
bottom of the foot. Watch out, or wear 
protection.
- The team complimented the orderly 
way in which students gather in the lunch 
line. They said, Students are to be com
mended for their maturity. At some uni
versities that weve visited, pushing and 
shoving has caused some grave problems. 
CMU students, however, are like sheep.
* The evaluating chairman, a sports 
enthusiast, said that the students play
ing intramural dont look athletic enough. 
He said that some students weigh too 
much, while others fail to grimace while 
taking part in hard physical activity. The 
team had no solution at the time of this 
writing.
- The evaluating team mentioned a few 
things in the way of language. Some stu
dents dont speak English was one keen ob
servation. One member of the committee 
was astonished at the use of profanity on 
campus. He recommended that students 
cut down on the foul language by asking a 
friend to punch them every time they curse. 
If the friend was not around at the time 
of the curse, then the student should make 
a mental note of the verbal slip, and ask 
the friend to punch him next time they 
meet.
- Beer consumption, according to the 
team, is a huge student problem. The 
fraternities should not allow their underage 
guzzlers to drink. But the committee was 
pleased to evaluate the different beers on 
the fraternity taps, and they claim that 
Strohs is better than Michelob.
- Sexual activity is healthy on this cam
pus. One team member called CMU more 
fertile than Schenley Park. The commit
tee approves, as long as it doe&it cut into 
school work.
- The committee seemed very impressvd 
by gazorching. Although they witnessed 
the breaking of the ZBT window, they 
said, Oh . . its all in fun. However, 
when one evaluator returned to his car 
after the gazorch session, he found his 
Continued on pg, 11

---------------------------------------------------

NATRAT
Editorial Clippings
One of the hottest ideas of the last ten years has been to 
let professional managers fill managerial roles. This in itself is 
quite a statement about the quality of modern intellectual 
leadership. But not having any good ideas to consider we may 
as well look at the slim pickings available.
With the holiday season inevitably comes the sharing of 
gifts and a review of the past years experiences and plea
sures. In this spirit the TARTAN makes the following hum
ble offerings to the many people without whom CMU and 
the past year would not have been the same.
The next question that we asked ourselves, was whether 
we would print FATSO or not. Although the TARTAN 
is not VOGUE, HARPERS BAZAAR, REDBOOK, and cer
tainly not THE LADIES HOME JOURNAL, we could not 
find, in the copy or accompanying illustration, a "tone very 
dissimilar to advertisements of an "intimate nature appear
ing in those publications. Incidentally, those publications are 
edited almost exclusively by women and are available and 
accepted in many respectable circles. Many more than the 
TARTAN.
If everyone would merely vote this week, it would be a 
major step towards making Student Senate a legitimate and 
powerful representative of student interests.
This charge makes little sense. It is clearly the argument of 
someone who does not want the election voided because he 
won. Any determination of a candidates full time status 
must be made by the administration since they do the book
keeping.
Consider why we even have an administration at all. Uni
versities have evolved for two reasons: to provide students 
with instruction and faculty members with freedom to do 
research and to teach. Most simply, universities exist because 
of faculty and students. Administrations have been created 
only because it is convenient for faculty and students to have 
them. That is, we have an administration to handle the opera
tion of the university which faculty and students feel they 
cant handle without it interfering with their pursuits as stu
dents, teachers or investigators.
Indeed, the Tuition Committee which recommended an 
increase in tuition, concluded that one of the most impor
tant factors in a students decision whether to come to CMU 
or not was the perceived quality of CMU. 
More active and open planning needs to take place. The 
administration has an obligation to provide students with an 
accurate description of both current conditions and what can 
be expected in the future. Questions should be raised over 
just what the present capacity of the University is.
The attraction of rating makes some sense. Most people 
would agree that there are some schools that are unquestion
ably outstanding while there are others that are undeniably 
bad.
Looking, at all thats provided for the price of the Stu
dent Activities Fee and/or the Dorm Residents Fee (SDCs 
money source), there is quite a bargain being offered. The 
hard economics of why the Activities Fee is such a good 
value is all the cheap labor involved. A few committee indi
viduals give many hours of their time for free.
The attack against the volunteer army is based on two 
points. First, there is the argument that it is not providing 
enough men. With much hand waving, critics claim that in 
spite of high unemployment and what they feel is extra
ordinarily good pay, there is a shortage of men enlisting. 
The second argument appeals to our sense of fairplay.
That is our policy!
We believe our actions have been consistent with this 
policy. We invite our readers to comment and contribute.
To all the fine people / have come to know at CMU these 
last four years / would like to say, have a nice life.
Atilla the Hun 
Editor
This entire edition of the Tartan is devoted to the humor
ous side of Carnegie-Mellon. The staff of Folio asks that you 
take every cut with a smile, and every misrepresentation and 
falsehood with a laugh. Dont take it seriously. Nothing in 
the entire twelve pages is real except for this one unnoticeab!e Paragraph. The advertisements and classified are all pure 
fantasy. We hope we didnt insult or offend anyone. Happy 
April Fools Day.
Cyert vows to unite Fruits and Vegetables. Can he do it?Letters
Again Junior
Editor:
leprosy is not contagious?
Alone in Mudge
I would like to complain about 
the lack of privacy on campus. 
Dont get me wrong, I enjoy the 
public showers and locker rooms. 
The thing that irks me occured 
around two weeks ago.
1 was hugging and kissing my 
boyfriend near the back door of 
Fine Arts. Two rather nice look
ing men walked by, lead by a 
student who was giving them a 
tour. Another student wandered 
by from the area of the fence and 
proceeded to stare at us. Hasnt he 
ever seen two guys kissing?
A Junior with his 
love-life in mind
Leprosy
Mother
mostly like to thank night mana
ger Dean Bennet for his dedica
tion to his job. Thank you Dean 
for all youve done.
Editor:Killer
Please send a copy of this 
paper to my mother. I told her 
I was going to write 
the Editor.
a letter toProduce
Editor;
Editor:
Late last month I discovered 
that I had leprosy. My family 
and roommate were very under
standing. However, when the 
campus community found out, 
they treated me like I was a no 
one. Dont they know that
Student
Israel and Sleep
Editor:
Yasar Arafat certainly has a 
right to dream, but Israel has a 
right to a peaceful sleep. So far, 
its been his dream, and Israels 
nightmare.
Darrell the newlywed 
Law student 
Temple University 
Philadelphia, Pa.
Killer's Pizza
Editor:
I would like to thank all those 
at the Tartan Grill who make my 
pizzas for me. I eat about 12 piz
zas a week, and each pizza is bet
ter than the week before. Id
As an alumnus of illustrious old 
Carnegie Tech. Im appalled at the 
recent furor caused by the junior 
with his future in mind. I cant 
understand what all this ruckus 
about fruits and vegetables and 
nuts is about. When I .was in 
school, they were never consi
dered a hot  topic, and Ive 
been surrounded by them since I 
left Tech back in 1932, and it 
hasnt bothered me at all. In fact, 
Ive carried on the Tech standard 
of excellence for well nigh 45 
years in the produce department 
of the McKnight A&P, and cant 
understand what all these crazy 
kids are so concerned about. In 
fact, a little fresh salad is good for 
you.
An alumnus with 
Produce on his mind
TARTAN FOLIO
Editor in Chief: Jeffrey Zaslow 
Art Director : Andy Epstein
Contributing Artists:
Robert Zimmermann 
Bob Hariss 
Scott Pollack 
Karen Yacksitch 
Irene Hobbs
Copyright 1977 by-lhe Carnegie -Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit or 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Govern
ment of Carnegie -Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; (412) 621- 
2600 ext 656 or 481. Business Offices: Skrbo 52; (412) 682-4557.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

---------------------------------------------------

Arts and Humanities Relocated
This couple met just two 
weeks ago at our singles bar 
THE WILD KISS 
You can meet the girl/guy 
of your dreams any weekend 
THE WILD KISS
ON THE CMU CAMPUS
If you pity this kitty
then don't offer to take 
it off our hands. We like 
having it around
public service ad for the SPCA
Pres. Cyert:"lt's easier to ship out than shape up."
by Karen Ann Yaksich
In a surprise move by the Presidents 
office last Thursday, it was announced that 
all interests in the College of Fine Arts 
and the College of Humanities and Social 
Sciences have been transferred to Hooper 
University, a small community college in 
central New Jersey, for an undisclosed 
amount of money. The* move becomes 
effective with the Fall 77 semester.
CMU President Richard Cyert explained 
that the deal was closed in a spirit of mu
tual opportunism. Hooper has been plan
ning to expand its educational vistas 
for a number of years, and decided that 
this would be an ideal time to do so. On 
the other hand, CMU is benefitting from 
a massive relief of interdepartmental squab
bling. H&SS has given us noihing but head
aches lately, and it has been determined 
that the most expedient manner in which
to satisfy the many, many recommenda
tions of the Middle States Committee 
would be to get rid of it entirely. As for 
CFA, recent allegations concerning mem
bers of the student body have influenced 
our decision to let it go, as well. After all, 
Camegie-Mellon has always striven to up
hold stringent standards of professionalism, 
and weve stressed to those so-called artists, 
actors, and architects that if they cant 
cooperate with the normal flow of society, 
they can transfer to Point Park. This 
action, however, eliminates much of the 
paperwork, and resultant secretarial expen
ses, involved in such an exodus. Not only 
that, it will bring in substantial revenue 
which can be directed toward more impor
tant matters, such as sidewalk mainte
nance. President Cyert declined to speci
fy the exact sum of the deal, but did inti
mate that it did amount to quite a hill 
of beans.
Concerning the ficulty of the depart
ing colleges, it was stated that the majority 
would be relocated with their respective 
departments, or, in the case of certain 
faculty members, to various positions 
settled before the deal formally went 
through. A notable exception is H&SS 
Asst Dean Betty Jane Lloyd, who will 
be filling the Womens Varsity Basket
ball coaching post recently vacated by 
Miss Jane Fisk.
When questioned on the gap that will 
exist in CMLPs curriculum as the result 
of this action, President Cyert replied that 
any metallurgy or physics major who 
insists on learning the English language 
or taking other related frill courses 
may cross-register with Hooper U. next 
semester. Carpooling sign-up sheets are 
available at the Skibo Information Desk 
for those students wishing to commute 
to those classes. Credit may be applied 
to their Camegie-Mellon degree.
Tri-Delts Cop First 
Place in First Annual
Roller Race
Stunning all, amazing many, and stupe
fying some, the Student Senate has done 
something extraordinary. They have 
dropped the Student Activities fee com
pletely. Senate Chairperson David G. Roussos outlined the act that will cut 25 dollars 
off of everyones 1977-78 bill.
We thought that since students bitch 
so much about the lousy 25 bucks, wed 
just drop it. Thats all. Scratch it. Roussos 
said.
Many clubs, including the Tartan, AB, 
SIX, and UFO will now be without fund
ing. Some of these groups have issued state
ments in support of the cut. Sam Grego, 
SDC President said Who needs funding 
when an organization doesnt do much!
However, students will notice the 
changes next year. Movies will be the regu
lar theatre price of $3.50. The Tartan will 
cost a quarter. Scotch and Soda tickets 
will be priced similar to Heinz Hall tickets. 
WRCT will be broadcast on cable airwaves, 
available only for those who pay the ser
vice. Spring Carnival wJ be the most
affected. Rides will cost approximately 
$1.00 each, and games will range from fifty 
to seventy-five cents a pay. The Thistle 
wont be cheap either. You can bet or. 
that.
Peer Help will have to charge seven dol
lars a session for their help. A Phi O will 
be taking an 80% cut from any books they 
sell at the Used Book Sale at the start of 
each semester.
The Karate Club will be unable to af
ford a fatso ad next year, but maybe 
thats a blessing in disguise. The Ultimate 
Frisbee Club will not be funded, and there
fore will not be able to afford frisbees. 
They plan to change the club image and 
name because of this. It will now be called 
The Paper Airplane Club and old campus 
calendars will be folded and used instead of 
frisbees.
Roussos hopes that this change will be 
pleasing to all, and he plans to do a lot 
with his 25 dollars. I think Ill invest it in 
some good activities on my own next 
year, he commented.
Carnival Dance to Have British Flair
by Karen Ann Yaksich
In keeping with this years theme of 
famous novels, the 1977 Spring Car
nival Dance will draw its inspiration from 
The Victorians, according to Activities 
Board representative Carla Jackson.
AB decided that it wanted to do some
thing different this year, and we think 
weve found something which will be 
really unique in the history of Carnival. 
Set in late 19th century England, The 
Victorians reflects the mannerisms and 
morality of Queen Victorias era, which 
was really a fascinating time. Consequent
ly, to carry on the spirit of those days, 
well be reviving a lot of interesting tum-of 
the century customs for this dance, includ
ing a dress code, a ban on intoxicants of 
any type, at least one bank of lights on at 
all times, and chaperones for all boy-girl 
dancing. Right now, though, our biggest 
stumbling block has been finding a good 
waltz band in the Pittsburgh area. But this 
event should prove to be a good time for 
everyone there, states Ms. Jackson.
The dance is scheduled for 8-12 pm in 
the Skibo ballroom on Saturday, April 23. 
Tickets may be picked up at the Informa
tion Desk for $1.00 each with a CMU ID.
Tag team roller skating relays made for 
a day of fun and excitement last week, as 
the first annual Roller Race was held on 
the CMU campus. Copping the first place 
trophy, Delta Delta Delta did it with 
speed and accuracy, something theyre 
known for. Were thrilled. Said lead-off 
skater Sherry Com.  Weve been practic
ing for a long time.
The Society of Women Engineers came 
in a close second, followed by Chi Omega. 
One skater was lost due to out-of-control 
skates. She was found at the bottom of 
Panther Hollow, and is thought to be a 
Kappa Alpha Theta Skater. They refuse 
to claim the body, however. Probably 
because they wanted to keep the girl on 
the scholarship roster.
Tri Delt Jean Pelegroany (right) shows fine form as she comes around the final roller skate bend. 
Delta Gamma's Mary Lock and KKG's Sue Levine are in hot pursuit.
Activities Fee to be Dropped

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTS.CLASSIFIED ADS
VOLUNTEER TO HOST A SLEEPING
general
John P. Crecine, Dean of the College of
Humanities and Social Sciences will have 
office hours for students, Tuesday from 
1:30 to 5:00. Dean Crecine is sorry that no 
one has shown up yet this year, but hopes 
for a big turnout this week. In order to 
insure a turnout, Dean Crecine will hold a 
bingo game on Tuesday from 10:00 a.m. 
to 1:30 p.m. Cash prizes will be awarded.
Forbes Street Gallery will be showing the
works of seven noted electrical engineering 
students from the campus community. 
Since most of these seven students have 
never done anything creative in their lives, 
the gallery warns that the exhibit will be 
very sparse. Weaving, sculpture, and paint
ings wil be on display from Thursday until 
Friday morning.
Wanted-work study student to act as shoe
repairman in shoe repair store that will 
open next fall in Baker Hall. Student 
should have experience in this field, or else 
a knowledge of feet.
Plasma Donors neede badly- the United
Plasma Society is looking for students be
tween the ages of 18 and 37 to donate 
their limbs to this years plasma research 
drive. Students will be paid seventy-five 
dollars for each limb.
Thursday Afternoon Luncheon ForumThis week the theme will be Are people 
who don't shower happy with themselves." 
The speaker will be noted psychologist 
W. Ruth Benton, well-known in the field of 
scumy personal habits. All are invited.
Notice to all tray pickers: Food Service
knows that you take food off the trays 
that sit on the carts, and we want you to 
know that we pity you very much. There
fore, one of our Food Service specials in 
April will be TRAY PICKERS EXTRAV
AGANZA. Eight carts filled with half 
eaten, or possibly still untouched goodies 
will be displayed. Tray picking will be on a 
first come first served basis. Go get 'em, 
scavengers!
Commencement Seating Chairs for grad
uating seniors and their parents are avail
able on the first floor of Warner Hall any
time next weekrUp to seven chairs may be 
bought. Cardboard boxes will be given to 
each student to remove his/her chairs. Pres
ident Cyert is hopeful that if maintenance 
men don't have to set up all the chairs on 
graduation day, commencement will be 
much cheaper. So buy your chairs while 
they last, and bring them with you when 
you graduate.
Vegetarian wanted - As part of a CMU
psychology experiment, we need eight 
vegies to undergo analysis for meat sniff
ing. Meats ranging from roast horse, to 
unroasted pig will be dispayed, and sub
jects will, be asked to sniff and compare. 
Two dollars an hour and all you can (or 
want to) eat.
Notice to all those on food contract. Stop
kidding yourselves. We know that you're 
taking food out of the cafeteria, and we 
don't like it. We're planning to have guards 
at all exits. Don't try leaving with food, or 
you might end up on academic probation.
A Cheese tasting study break will be held
in the Delta Upsilon living room from 
Thursday evening 7:00 pm until six weeks 
from Wednesday. A DU spokesman said 
that the reason for the marathon cheese 
session is that over seven hundred pounds 
of cheese were purchased for the event. 
The spokesman said he hopes to rush a lot 
of pledges during the mixer.
JAPANESE SEDER- Hillel will be provid
ing a Jap-style passover seder for all inte
rested Jews in the Hiilel lounge on both 
nights of Passover. All Japs welcome.
Computer Science Colloquim-Prof. Wendell
Monosenility will discuss "Computers and 
the Mafia". Tea will be served before, after 
and during the presentation.
Peer Help Center- Will be open to all CMU
students with valid I.D. cards and V.D. The 
center wil counsel all. Sorry, due to the vast 
number of V.D. carriers in need of peer 
help, only valid I.D.'s can be honored.
BAG PARENT Parents of prospective 
students will be visiting campus next 
month, and need a place to sleep. Open 
your dorm floor to one of these parents, so 
they can understand exactly what their 
children are getting into.
Bus to Philadelphia-A special charter bus
will be off to Philadelphia for any Carnegie 
Mellon Student who can handle a gun. The 
bus is being stolen from the Greyhound bus 
garage right before Spring break, and 
should be zooming by CMU at about 3p.m. 
Friday afternoon, A lookout, tail gunner, 
and getaway driver are needed. No fare, 
but it is probable that the bus will only be 
going one way. Return trip not guaranteed.
clubs
Grey Panthers- The CMU chapter of the
Grey panthers will meet this Sunday at 
3:00 in the Wherrett Room. All students 
over 65 are invited. "Why We Learn Until 
the Day We Die" will be the discussion 
topic. The Panthers' annual swim party 
will be held afterwards in the pool.
UFO meeting - All fraternity and sorori
ties will gather in the ballroom for the 
hanging of a pledge, to be chosen by lot
tery. The hanging will not be real, but will 
be staged to horrify any visiting sleeping 
bag parents, who will be here next week
end. Good seating still available for the 
hanging. April 4th. 10:30 a.m.
Senate meeting - Nothing will be discussed,
but Robert's Rules of Order will be follow
ed for the entire meeting.
scholarships awards prizes
Collegiate Fishing Contest-A cash prize
of 300 dollars will be awarded to any 
American College student who catches a 
ton of fish in the summer of 1977. Fish 
may be caught anywhere in the continental 
U.S. Write for rules and details; Fish 106 
RosegilI Lane. Chicago III. 60609
International Womens Wear Scholarship. A
full scholarship to any university will be 
awarded to a braless, liberated female who 
exemplifies the motto of the Women's 
Wear liberation front. Send for motto, 
creed, and women's wear catalogue. Write: 
WOMEN WHERE? East Liberty, Pa. 15235
First Annual Morewood Avneue Poetry
Contest. A set of encyclopedias left by the 
late Arthur F. Wentocken will be awarded 
to the best poem written by a resident on 
Morewood Avenue. The contest is open to 
all those living on Morewood Avenue from 
Forbes to Center Anenue. All prizes will 
be awarded.
Barbra Streisand legendary award- The
B.S. award will be given to a girl with the 
grace, beauty, charm and talent of Barbra 
Streisand, as exhibited in the new hit 
A STAR IS BORN. Judging will take place 
in New York and Los Angeles. To enter, 
call 82-8256.
classified
Wanted: Chicano quarterback for pickup
football game in the South Hills. Call Rudy 
at 64-5432. If he's not home, ask for his 
little brother, Petey.
Wanted:Famous novelist to explain certain
great pieces of literature to baffled English 
student. References required. Call Bill 81- 
5436.
Wanted-Old machine guns. Call 87-3432
Wanted - someone who stutters to lick en
velopes. Apply Warner Hall Room 342.
Roommate needed to share slum dwelling.
Cheap, most of the neighbors are pretty 
nice. Call, don't visit. 64-9222.
For Sale- Farrah Fawcett poster. In fair
condition. Highest bid will be taken.- Call 
Steve 43-3424.
Typing- I'll type your resume or term
paper for free. All I ask is that you agree 
to be my indentured servant for 35 
months. Write TYPISTMASTER Apt. 
307 Morewood E Tower.
Lost- An autographed picture of my
mother. Sentimental value. It's 8 by 10, 
and is black and white. She is a pretty 
woman, fiftyish, with a patch over her left 
eye. Photo lost near Skibo.
Foreign students needed if possible, resi
dents of Mudge, for a foreign student pic
nic. All foreigners welcome. Students from 
underdeveloped contries, however, will be 
entitled to more burgers at the picnic.
Summer job catalogue-Over 7700 oppor
tunities to find summer employment. This 
catalogue lists jobs that are for the current 
college student. The pay scale for each job 
is at least $15,000. Job offers include: 
Head Engineer for Procter and Gamble, 
Vice Presidency of Scott Tissue Company, 
Hearing Aid advertising gag writer, and 
astronaut for summer mission to Hawaii.
1973 LTD - Fine shape. Nice and... umm...
yea...good body...Wow...dig it... look at it 
move... oohh... call for( estimate. 411.
Thank you Tartan Staff, for producing
such a wonderful newspaper week after 
week. The entire campus is indebted to 
your outstanding efforts.
signed, 
the entire campus
Members of the Kilte Band will be per
forming a fashion show on Tuesday night 
in the Skibo ballroom. They will model the 
Spring Kiltes, and the new fall models.
<t m * a * ** m # * *
I HAD V.D.
...BUT I 
GOT RID OF 
ITU
Visit your local clinic 
and get tested.
It's always safe 
to be sure.

---------------------------------------------------

April 1, 1977 - NATRAT - Page 5
Week in Review
President Carter plans to continue his
Im a regular guy just like the rest of you 
nothings! attitude, according to Press Sec
retary Jody Powell. Carter plans to g  
against history in an unprecedented move, 
unequaled even by his stroll up Pa. Ave. for 
his inauguration. Carter plans to clean the 
White House toilets and bathtubs. Powell 
told a gathering of reporters in the White 
House that Carter will take over the duties 
of upstairs and downstairs washerwoman 
during his term in office.
Whales were sighted off the coast of
Idaho last week, according to sources in 
Peking. It has not been established why the 
whales were sighted near Idaho, since Ida
ho has no coast. Also, it is yet to be deter
mined why this report came from Peking, 
thousands of miles away.
Big Daddy Idi Amin of Uganda now
says that he will not let any prostitutes, 
cows, junkies, astronauts, steel workers, or 
bridge builders out of the country until 
they meet with him. According to his 
closest aid, Roagud Sablana: The guy is 
a real ass. Crazy as hell. Who knows what 
dumb obnoxious thing hell do next? I 
hate him.
Alger Hiss, well known for his espionage
activities that he claims he didnt commit, 
was found in a typewriter store near Los 
Almos, New Mexico, in a drugged state. 
Hiss, as we all know, was guilty of the 
crimes he was accused of committing. He
was sent to prison for life, for being such 
a jerk in the typewriter store. He had 
planned to lecture at three more college 
campuses this month. They have all been 
cancelled.
Mary Tyler Moore, Dick Van Dykes TV 
wife, has now gotten her own show togeth
er. It will be called the Mary Tyler Moore 
show, and will star Mary as an unattractive 
TV producers girl friend. It can be seen on 
CBS on Saturday nights.
Haleys comet was seen today by thou
sands of Brazilian farmers who were 
looking for an airplane that they could 
wave at. The comet did not scare the 
farmers. The fanners have gotten into the 
habit of waving at airplanes, and they just 
waved at the comet. They think that air
planes are gods. It is believed that they 
think comets are comets.
It is believed that Paul is dead. Paul is
Dead. Paul is Dead. See Abbey Road Al
bum, Sgt. Peppers Album, Magical Mystery 
Tour Album, and the Beatles White Album 
for details.
James Earl Ray, convicted killer of Mar
tin Luther King, escaped from his cell in 
Memphis and hitchiked to Nashville where 
he started a singing group, James Earl and 
the Assasins. The group is expected to be 
joined soon by Charles Manson, and Sirhan 
Sirhan, both of whom escaped last week 
from their respective prisons.
siiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiDiiiimiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiDiimiiiiiiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiDiiuiiiiiiiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiDiiu
I I
I GET BUFFALO MEAT I
?
DELIVERED RIGHT 
INTO YOUR HOME! I
Our Chefs cut meat cooked 
to your taste here 
in our butchery
PITTSBURGH BUFFALO
542 South Hampton Street
flniaiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiniamuiiiiiiiotiiiiiitiiiiaiHiiuiiiiiaiiiiiHNitiaiifir
Free Pepsi Cola to all Supa students with 
grade point averages above 2.75. See next 
weeks NATRAT for details.
Free Dr. Pepper to all MIS students with grade 
point averages above 2.8865.
See display In your local drug 
Store.
The United Nations reported that the
worlds ten largest cities, in order are: 
Shanghai, Tokyo, Mexico City, New York, 
Peking, London, Moscow, Leningrad, 
Rome and Monroeville. Monroeville, a 
suburban section of Pittsburgh is the 
newest addition to the list.
Vice President Mondale said today that
his wife is ugly. No other details were 
given.
Amy Carter, retarded daughter of Presi
dent Carter, got in a fight today with a 
black classmate. According to fellow class
mate Sue Ann Wilkens, Amy hit the stu
dent because she was being selfish with 
her crayons. The black student, who re
mains unidentified, hit back, belting Amy 
in the stomach. A series of lefts, upper 
hooks, and right jabs followed. The black 
student was arrested and taken down town 
for questioning. This is the third incident 
this week involving Amy Carters new urge 
to fight. Amy is now considered the class 
bruiser, and even the tough guys refuse to 
fight with her.
Rick Edah , a candidate fir Student
Senate at Camegie-Mellon University held 
a national Press conference today. Edahl 
claimed that he would be stopping the 
apartheid policy in South Africa and he 
would be declaring war on democracy if 
he would win the CMU election. It was un
clear at Press time how the hell he would 
do it.
Henry Kissinger has enrolled in New
York Public School 453. The former Secre
tary of State is taking courses in U.S. His
tory, English Speaking, and Foreign Policy. 
His wife Nancy said that since hes been 
retired hes been bored. Shell be packing 
him a lunch and will be joining him at 
recess time.
Sen. Hubert Humphrey says that hes 
glad that Nixon resigned. Reporters feel he 
is simply going crazy repeating what is 
already history, and just left him alone.
Police and students clashed at Penn
State this weekend. The reason for the 
student uprising was because the police 
were whistling at the coed females on cam
pus. Were not going to put up with their 
actions. Said Student-Activist leader Ste
ven Ira Glusman If they want to whistle 
at my fellow students, they are going to 
have to whistle at me too! Police Chief 
Damon Tune said that his officers were just 
whistling at the pretty girls in the interest 
of fun and in order to close the generation 
gap. He said that the officers would whistle 
at Glusman if he wanted. Rioting began 
soon after the latest outbreak of whistling.
The Stock Market dropped two points,
rose two points, dropped three points, rose 
a point and a half, dropped again, rose 
again in heavy trading, dropped again, rose 
again and dropped again.
iVanr* iriTivn
 STIIDT AT HOME
 ATTEND ONLT 3 CLASSES A TERM
 EARN FULL COLLEGE CREDIT
The Uncollege is the ideal solution for people who 
want to take college courses, but can't attend classes 
on a regular basis.
Earn college credits at home, at the some pace as stu
dents enrolled at Pitt's on-campus evening program. 
All classes meet just three times each term, on Satur
days.
Fully accredited. Approved for Veterans.
For full information, call (412) 624-3333, day or 
night, or return the coupon below.
GMF 3*13
fin*
Mefl tr UehrenityI Addrts*.
IIt___________tt-- -| Mt -1 -1-ufiiffniTy or riTTswrp
PHtsbergk, PA 151
I 
I
I c*ypuuu

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6 - NATRAT - April 1, 1977
WHY JOHNNY 
CAN READ 
24 HOURS A DAY!
HE'S ON PEP PILLS
MEET BOB IN THE FRAT ALLEY
MONDAY NIGHTS
COMPUTER DATING
will fix you up 
with solheone you approve of
or it's our treat!
Call Computer Dating of Pittsburgh
3453, ext. 739
Photographer KilledPeeping Tom Digs 
Nude S'--------
by Fred Lapointe 
Wanita Kanowski, a resident of the first 
floor B tower of Doherty House, said that 
on a warm day about a week ago, she saw 
a man standing on the path behind her 
building and peering into her window. 
When she walked towards the window to 
see who he was and what he was doing, he 
left. Kanowski said although she was suspi 
cious of the incident because he was an 
older man and didnt live in Doherty 
House, she will continue to sleep in the 
nude. Security has been notified . . .
This picture, the last frame in Taitan Photographer Nelliot Popyourzits' camera, 
was taken moments before he was fatally killed by a gazorched balloon.
Tartan photographer Nelliot Popyour
zits was killed last Thursday while attempt
ing to get a good shot of a gazorching 
team. He came too close. I let go and it 
got him right in the face. Said first class 
Theta Xi gazorcher Dan Colupno. Im 
really sorry. I didnt mean to, kill him. 
After the huge sling shot fired in Popyourzits face, a crowd gathered around 
him, but did nothing.
What could we do. He was already al
most dead. He said his last words, and that 
was it. Someone was going to call an ambu
lance, but we figured; why bother? said 
Pi Lambda Phi pledge, Joe Barry, who was 
at the scene.
From observers testimony, it is believed 
that the photographers last words took 
about 45 minutes. Excerpts included;
Print the picture in the Tartan. Im 
sure its good. I mean it really should turn 
out fine. . . Im all wet . . . that hurt ... I 
die a double E.
Last rites were held at the scene of 
the tragedy. An ambulance did come the 
next day.
New
Dorm
by Fred Lapointe 
A tentative plan to build a new dormi
tory has been put forth before the Trus
tees. If the Trustees do decide to build the 
dorm, it will not be ready by 1979, for the 
demolition of Science Hall will take two 
years. In the meantime hallways will be 
converted into 15 rooms, including 9 dou
bles and 6 singles . ..
AB Concert
by Fred Lapointe
Fridays AB concert overcame a number 
of setbacks to provide an evening of 
peerless entertainment. The first setback 
was, of course, the cancellation of the 
Rolling Stones. Supposedly, Keith Richard 
was busted again for alleged possession of 
cocaine; however, CMU was lucky to ob
tain a replacement to the Rolling Stones: 
the Beatles. Bob Dylan was opening for 
them in Cleveland Saturday night and 
when Steve Spewecksi asked them to come 
together to play at CMU, they agreed to 
fill the bungalow bill.
Steve felt that the late change would 
not affect the number of tickets pur
chased, however, AB lost several thousands 
of dollars to refunds.
SERVICE LINE TO THE HOT FOOD DIRECTOR EVERY MONDAY 5 TO 6 P.M. EXT. 653 or 654

---------------------------------------------------

Star Trek Monster 
Loose on Campus
Computer Science 
Department Closes 
Cyert Says System 
is "Screwed Up"
Earthquake Hits Donner
by Orion
In a surprise move last week CarnegieMellons President Richard Cyert an
nounced the closing of the Computer 
Science Department. Reasons cited include 
the cost of maintaining the facilities which 
are among the three best in the country. 
For example, the IBM 360/67 system is 
hopelessly screwed up to quote a relia
ble source, and our 1108 unit is considered 
to be successful if it can run one batch be
fore crashing.
President Cyert, a reliable source, in 
his announcement also called the depart
ment a $3 million Star Trek game. Profes
sor Joseph F. Traub could not be reached 
for comment, as he was barracaded with a
PDP-11 yelling Got them! Aw . . . 
missed.
The computers will probably be sold to 
other unenlightened schools, however, the 
problem remains what to do with all the 
students taking computer courses; the 
spaces around campus; and the computer 
science budget. Most likely, computer 
science majors will be encouraged to 
switch to more popular subjects. According 
to Cyert, the space and budget previously 
allocated to Comp Sci will be given to the 
Department of Architecture.
One final note, the Computer Science 
majors have announced that they will not 
sleep until these plans are changed. Com
mented the president: So what, they 
dont sleep anyway!!
Students all pitched in to help pull Donner residents out 
of the earth that swallowed them and their dormitory.
An earthquake hit Donner Hall dormi
tory early yesterday morning. Noone was 
killed, but 200 are still missing. The 
earthquake measured 6 on the rich ter scale, 
seven on the scale in the Kilte Cafe, and 18 
on the scale at the Gazebos Deli in Shadyside. _______
The unexpected quake threw many stu
dents out of their beds and into their 
classrooms in the newly refurbished Marga
ret Morrison. One student said that it was 
something like a disaster flick, but not as 
exciting.
by Bob Harris
Yesterday, the peace of the CMU cam
pus was destroyed by many sightings of a 
strange creature. The creature was spotted 
first in Science Hall by three engineering 
students. According to Fred Zurveff, one 
of the students, At first I thought it was a 
dramat but since it was in Science Hall, I 
figured Id better report it. The mysteri
ous creature is believed to have materia
lized in a computer during a recent game
of Star Trek. Security has determined that 
students were indeed playing Star Trek 
about ten minutes before the first sighting. 
But, according to Mike Coletti, head of 
Security,We have been assured that all 
Klingons were destroyed during the game. 
However, Coletti was vague when asked 
about the possibility that the creature is a 
Romulan. Coletti continued Were still 
not convinced that it isnt just a dramat 
looking for the library.
Computer responsible for the wierd creature.
.yv Have you seen this anywhere on campus?

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8-NATRAT-April 1, 1977
Free
Take
Rolls 
Shape
Early Sunday mornings, scores of CMU 
students rise and roll. Yes, its free roll 
time, and this years buggies look better 
and newer than ever before. This years 
races should be more exciting than ever, 
because the buggy teams are better trained 
and faster than ever before.
Were using the same buggy we used in 
1928, said SAE buggy chairman Mike 
Blicher. It rolls well, and its kind of nostal
gic.
Betas chairman Mike Gibbs says that 
theyve destroyed their new buggy and 
have revitalized their old one. Last free 
rolls our antique clinker worked like a 
gem.
Neil Seigel, Fringe buggy chairman, is 
also excited about this years competition. 
Along with Sigma Nus Gerd Beckman, 
hes planning to dress his pushers in old 
fashioned buggy outfits. The outfits were 
modeled in the above pictures taken during 
last weeks free roll.
Look at those buggies go. New speed records should be set in this year's races.
HOW TO MAKE LOVE TO A SINGLE MAN!
Loving The Single Man
IMAGINE BEING SO SEXY, MEN 
BECOME MADLY ATTRACTED TO 
YOU THE MOMENT YOU ENTER 
A ROOM.
Who says you have to be beautiful 
to attract scores of men? Here is a 
book that can turn you into such 
an exciting lover, men will want 
to touch you the instant you walk 
into a room. The book is called 
LOVING THE SINGLE MAN. And 
it's guaranteed to turn you into 
the kind of woman men find irresi stabio.
LOVING THE SINGLE MAN is a 
huge, 8V4 * 11 inch, 192 page 
volume with scores of pictures of 
some of the world's handsomest, 
most exciting men.
They help show you how to be
come the kind of lover to whom men are passionately and 
profoundly attracted For example, you wilt learn:  how to vastly , 
lucre* your own erotic pleasure  how to dress sexier and feet 
good about it  how to set  man to really look at you and how you 
can stimulate him by just returning his look  how to ask a man 
for the weekend  how to arouse a man with Just words  how to 
set a romantic scene no man can resist  how to make love to your man's O 
entire body  how to make love under water  an easy, foolproof way to V 
ask a man out eq a dete  how to attract men who at first seem cold to 
your advances  how to project your sex appeal in a stimulating but dig
nified way.
LOVING THE SINGLE MAN will teach you how to thrill s man so 
intensely, he wont be able to get you out of his mind. And once 
you know you can do that, you'll carry yourself with a whole new 
kind of confidence. Men will see sex appeal in your eyes, sense It 
in your walk. When you step into a crowded restaurant, they'll feel 
your vibrations all the way across the room.
So send for LOVING THE SINGLE MAN today. And discover just 
how exciting and attractive you can be! (To order set coupon below.)
HOW TO PICK UP A MAN!
Have you ever found yourself sitting 
next to a handsome stranger, wishing 
you had the courage to strike up a 
conversation?
Then, you'll be delighted to know 
about a fantastic new bestseller called 
HOW TO PICK UP MEN! Here is a 
book that will teach you over 100 
foolproof techniques for meeting and 
dating the kind of men you've always 
dreamed about
interviews with 25 
Good-Looking Bachelors 
HOW TO PICK UP MEN contains 
interviews with 25 handsome bach
elorslawyers doctors, writers, 
businessmen, professional athletes, 
etc They tell you exactly what it takes 
to pick them up
HowTo Pick Up A Man
gpl 
 i.
M
HOW TO MAKE LOVE TO A SINGLE GIRL!
How To Make Love To A Single Woman
IMAGINE BEING SUCH A GREAT 
LOVER WOMEN CAN SEE IT IN 
YOUR EYES!
Here is a book that can turn you 
into such an exciting lover women 
will sense your sexual powers the 
instant yew walk into a room. The 
book is called HOW TO MAKE 
LOVE TO A SINGLE GIRL. And it's 
guaranteed to turn you into the 
kind of lover women just can't 
wait to be with..
OVER 160 LUSCIOUS 
PHOTOGRAPHS!
HOW TO MAKE LOVE TO A SIN
GLE GIRL is a huge 8% x 11",
192 page volume with over 160 
luscious fjhotos. These gorgeous 
photos show yqti  Step by excit
ing step  hita fiftr-tum on a 
woman. YouU sean sxpert loVer touching, holding, and seducing 
aft unbelievably exjHooking woman. Each of the more than 60 
chapters tells you exactly whet arouses a girl. Xou'll learn  in 
their QNjn words! womej'wjjost secret pleasure, the things 
the* lay* so mug* from a^iOTihey catft pst Mnf.in a single 
reading >pi4fBrj|ttcome th ttnf fmh a IwfmW rcognizes on 
the*trq*f a#* g4at love*. Th*fe are just e lew'-ef the fabulous 
r techmqUMft yob'll IsQm to master* ho# to be pefttle and why this is so 
Important  how to get women to fantasize bout you  how to make a 
woman let herself go  the aphrodUiec touch  the positions girls like 
best  what's special about a single girt  hqw to cite a girt with just
Most guys think you have to be good looking br rich to attract lots 
of women. Not true!! HOW TO MAKE LOVE TO A SINGLE GIRL 
will teach you overnight how to thrill women so intensely they'll 
see it in your eyes, recognize It in your walk. After youve read 
this book . . . women will see you in e whole new, exciting way. 
So order HOW TO MAKE LOVE TO A SINGLE GIRL today!__________________(To order see coupon below.) __________
HOW TO PICK UP A GIRL!
HOWTO PICK UP GIRLS!
Pick up girls anywhere! In bars, buses, 
trains, even on the street! It's easier 
than you ever dreamed possible You 
don't have to be rich or tall or goodlooking This foolproof book works for 
all men. Here are just a few of the 
more than 100 surefire techniques 
you will learn and master:
 How to make shyness work for you
 Why a man doesn't have to be 
good-looking  50 great opening lines
 Worlds greatest pick-up technique
 How to get women to pick you up
 How to succeed in singles bars.
HOW TO PICK UP GIRLS contains 
in-depth interviews with 25 beautiful 
girls They tell you exactly what it 
takes to pick them up Send for HOW TO PICK UP GIRLS today and pick 
up any girl you want. HOW TO PICK UP GIRLS costs only $8 95 It 
makes picking up girls as easy as tying your shoes!
fTo order see coupon below)
YOU WILL LEARN MORE THAN 10O 
FOOLPROOF TECHNIQUES. INCLUDING:
* How to make shyness work for you * Why a woman doesn't have to 
be beautiful  How to tell when he likes you  How to smile at a 
man  Fifty great opening lines  World's greatest pickup 
technique  How to get him to pick you up * Three eecreta 'tewardeases 
know  How to meet the "marrying kind"* Seven way* to be 
secy * Where rich, powerful, single men outnumber women more than 
len to one  How one simple, natural action on your part will have men 
rushing over to get to know you  How and where to meet the future 
senators and congressmen of America  "Your pick up potential quiz
Send for your copy of HOW TO PICK UP MEN today And start enjoying 
the fun and romance you deserve HOW TO PICK UP MEN costs only 
$8 95 That's less than what you'd pay for an ordinary blouse Yet so much 
more of a help in meeting the kind of interesting, sexy, good-looking men 
you've always been attracted to
(To order see coupon at right )
 Symphony Press. Inc 197
SYMPHONY PRESS, INC. P.O. Box S DEPT. NY-0377 TEANECK, NJ 07666
LOVING THE SINGLE MAN (only {12 95 ptus $1 00 postage a/id handling) 
HOW TO PICK UP A MAN (only $8.95 plus 75 postage and handling) 
nnrw nnmc only $20 95 plus $1.00 postage and handling.
E LOVE TO A SINGLE G!RL (only $12 95-plus *1 OOpostage 
________ ____ and handling)
BOTH BOOKS . 
HOWTO MAKE
HOW TO PICK UP GIRLS (only $8 95 plus 75 postage and handling) 
BOTH BOOKS only $20.95 plus $1.00 postage and handlinq)
___MasterCharge Card *________________Exp Date__________________
___BanhAmericard Card *________________Exp Date_________________
If charging on BankAmericard or MasterChargt ign here' 
Nam# ,______________________________
Suet . __. _ ~. _ _____________________
City . . _Sut _____
EAT BEWEE 
 Buy it by the CAN
 By the BOTTLE
 By the JAR
 By the BOX
 By the TON
Available at Skibo
=5
HERE IS HOW TO MEASURE FORSUMMER COURSE
In
Measuring 
See 
Registrar, 
Warner Hall

---------------------------------------------------

LAWN
MOWING
111 mow 
your lawn 
for 2.25 
an hour
Im good at it
i*
Call me
Mr. Domenic
EMERGENCY SCHOOL 
CLOSMG
454 NO SCHOOL
5-454 ONE HOUR LATE
6-454 TWO HOURS LATE
Numbers will be broadcast 
on all radio & TV stations
INFORMA-PHONE 
EL 6-9407
5:15 to 7:15 a.m.
April 1, 1977 ^ NATRAT - Page 9
ENTERTAINMENT
Guess Who 
These Two 
People Are 
and 
Win A Trip 
To Honoduras
Mail Guesses to 
Mr. & Mrs. Spitz 
Fresno California 
12376
Cher Bono Takes Over As EnglishHead
at CMU Next Friday
Dean Crecine and his staff of three 
departmental representatives have finally 
come up with their choice for English 
Department Head. Cher Bono, graduate of 
Wontilli High School in Fresno, California, 
has been chosen from a long list of per
spective department heads. Ms. Bono is 
well known in the field of music and 
television.
Although Crecine received applications 
from 600 professors and Deans all over the 
country, he says he feels that Ms. Bono is 
the most qualified. Shes got a good 
voice, and I think she can get the paper 
work done without trouble. The English 
department needs to be revamped, and 
Ms. Bono is the one to do the vamping, 
Crecine said.
Ms. Bono will begin her new job in 
June, and she has already visited the 
campus in order to get acclimated.
Im thrilled to be chosen. I hope we 
all will be able to work well together, 
she said in her address to the H&SS 
faculty. Ms. Bono will hold office hours 
from 1:45 to 1:50 on the third Tuesday 
of each month starting in June.
SHRINKING DESK
)
Fits neatly in palm for easy carrying after use
CALL DESK - SHRINK for details
548-654
Aqualungs
The smash-hit group that is taking the 
nation by flood, will splash in to CMU next 
Friday for one concert. AQUA-LUNG, 
composed of Bobby Freesneck, Lillian 
Mack, and Steve Brock, already have two 
songs on the national charts, and three 
world records, including mens free style, 
womens backstroke, and mens diving.
The CMU concert will be held at poolside 
starting at 8 p.m.
AQUA-LUNGs popularity can be attri
buted to their sexy voices, and physical 
appeal. They always perform their concerts 
in bathing suits. The teeny boppers of 
America have left the Bay City Rollers and 
joined the m;my followers of AQUA 
LUNG. Lillian, often compared to Olivia 
Newton- John, is soft spoken, but has a 
power packed voice that brings tears, with
out chlorine, to the eyes of her listeners.
AQUA-LUNG seems to suit all listening 
groups. Steve Brock has an easy Frank 
Sinatraish voice, and his ballads send the 
girls swooning. Bobby, with a style similar 
to Alice Cooper, bangs out the hard rock 
numbers and then dives into the pool after 
Lillian.
Tickets will be on sale at the Skibo In
formation Desk all this week. It should be 
a good show.
to Sing

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
This picture was snapped a millisecond after an unidentified intramural athlete grapped an ATO 
athlete by the bottom.
 I I'<** m I HHHHmhphbM
Siamese twins Jeff and John Sassick show how they play soccer even with their disadvantage. John's 
foot is connected to his brother's calf.
Cheerleaders Practice Mountain Climbing
In an effort to get ready for the Tartan are practicing mounts. Looking good cheerfootball season this fall, the cheerleaders leaders. Go get em Tartans!
see caption for more details.
In an effort to get ready for the Tartan football season this fall, the cheerleaders are practicing mounts. 
Looking good cheerleaders. Go get 'em Tartans!Fred Stammerlin, while performing in front of the CMU Karate Club, got mad at his opponent and 
pulled a gun on him. The gun was later wrestled out of his hands by police.
Intramurals Plagued 
by Homosexuality
An investigation into the accusation a long hard season of pinches and pats, 
that there is rampant homosexuality in the Although there were countless episodes on 
basketball intramural league has been the court, there is little evidence of the holaunched. The accusation was made by mosexuality creeping into the locker 
members of ATO, and Kappa Sigma after rooms. The allegations are being looked
Karate Club Member Loses Temper
Siamese Soccer Twins to 
Join CMU Squad Next Year
Jeff and John Sassick, brothers and 
soccer players from-Churchill Area High 
School are a very different breed of ball
players. They are Siamese twins, connect
ed by foot and calf, and they play and run 
just like any other soccer stars. They 
helped Churchill win three games this sea
son, and CMU is glad to have the boys join 
the squad next year.
The boys mother, Mrs. Sassick, also of 
Churchill, says her boys are model students 
and good friends. They both have a girl
friend, and it helps matters since it is the 
same girl. Mrs. Sassick says that she hopes 
the boys can work out their scheduling 
problems and still make it to Soccer prac
tice. John is a Mechanical Engineer, while 
Jeff will be a Musical Theater major.
Fred Stammerlin, well known for his 
controversial Fatso ad in a September 
Tartan, lost his senses and pulled a gun 
on his opponent during a practice session 
of the Karate Club last week. According to 
informed sources, his opponent had chided
Stammerlin about his lack of taste concern
ing the ad. Fred pulled a gun and said Up 
with your hands. Police came and took 
the gun out of Stammerlins hands. He is 
free on bail, facing charges of poor taste 
in advertising, and assault with a deadly 
weapon.

---------------------------------------------------

April 1, 1977 - NATRAT - Page 11
My roommate and i will use 
your meal cards for you while 
you're on Vacation.
We'll fill your room with all 
the meals you miss when you're 
away from CMU ...
Small Fee (can be paid in points)
Call Michael 
987-4213 after 2 P.M
HAVE A PUPPET SHOW
MR. & MRS. FRANKLIN STOVE 
Puppeteers 
Call 675-9864
Middle States
Continued from pg. 1
windshield broken. God damn bastards! 
he whispered. Another team member 
quickly punched him in the stomach.
For the most part, the committee plans
to make comments and suggestions in line 
with the ones mentioned above. If you see 
any of them walking around campus, try 
to make a good impression. Remember, the 
Natrat will print anything they say.
Middle States Evaluation team knows the better beer . 
HjliliillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllliniHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIHIIIIIIIItllllllillHHIIIIIItllllltlllllllllllllillUlllllllllllllllllllllllllliltllllllll^
PUPPET PEOPLE 
PUPPET SHOWS
For your next:
FRAT MIXER. DANCE, 
COFFEEHOUSE, PARTY, BEER BLAST
FRUSTRATED? 
UNHAPPY? 
LONELY?
ARE THE ACADEMICS GETTING TO YOU??? 
IS YOUR SEX LIFE EQUAL TO THE DERIVATIVE OF 
A CONSTANT? 
THEN JOIN THE CMU SUICIDE CLUB! 
WE HAVE THE ANSWER.
MONDAY, APRIL 7 ... . First Meeting (make plans) 
FRIDAY, APRIL 11 .... Party! 
TUESDAY, MAY 1 . . . The last night before finals III! 
Our grand FINALE! Before the ACTIVITIES begin, 
the most creatively planned "stunt" as prize will 
receive an ALL EXPENSE PAID funeral! tl!IH!!l
Contact: Brian Jackson A309 Hamerschlag for MORE INFORMATION, 
(quickly) (682-9490)
LIFETIME MEMBERSHIPS AVAILABLE (cash only) 
GROUP RATES FOR ARCHITECTS
(organization is the key to success.....................)
WE'RE #2 AND WE TRY HARDER
practice makes perfect
bliiiicssssssssssssesssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssesssssssreesssssssssessssssssesssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssessssessssssssssssesssssssssssssessscisevad

---------------------------------------------------

FREE CALCULATOR 
WITH PURCHASE 
OF GROCERIES
Giant Eagle will give away this Hewitt-Packard 
calculator to any customer who buys $10 or more 
in groceries between Thursday and Saturday next 
week.
Page 12 - NATRAT - April 1, 1977
I finally had the guts to 
drop out of ROTC. 
I did it. 
You can do it, tool
See CMU from the 
Highest Tree In 
Pittsburgh
It's in my backyard and 
you can sit in it for two 
dollars an hour.
Write: Tree Sit, 3010 Forhes Ave.
Verbal Pedigrede, LTD. will teach 
your dog to talk, just like Roger
the Talking Dog, in less than 
six months. Write for details.
Bow Wow, 532 Steiner Rd., Palm Beach, Fla. 30067.
I DID IT!
YOUR DOG 
CAN LEARN 
HOW TO TALK
