January 23, 1979Volume 79, Number 18Carnegie-Mellon UniversityPittsburgh, PA 15213
Death Ruled 
Accidental
Andrew Finnerty, the junior electrical 
engineering major who was found dead 
January 14 in his Scobell dorm room, died 
accidentally according to the Allegheny 
County Coroners Office. After performing 
an autopsy, the Coroner attributed the 
death to freon inhalation. Freon is a gas 
contained in refrigerators and aerosol 
propellants.
The Coroner believes that Finnerty 
somehow inhaled the gas from a number of 
aerosol cans on the back of his bed. He 
used the cans for scientific experiments he 
conducted in his room.
While a number of conflicting reports 
appeared in Pittsburgh and Ohio (Finnertys home) newspapers, those who knew 
Finnerty sincerely doubt that he was 
attempting to get a high from the cans, 
as was reported. They speculate that he 
had been experimenting before bed, and a 
concentration of freon escaped into his 
room. New windows installed in Scobell 
are excellent sealants when closed. The 
room was also hot, and it is quite possible 
that Finnerty died without realizing that 
the gas was in his room.
The term accidental death is often
CRB Air Quality Poor
used when a coroner does not believe there 
is sufficient information to confirm suicide 
and can not identify the exact circum
stances leading to death.
Two CMU students served as pallbearers 
at Finnertys funeral in Willoughby, Ohio 
last Wednesday, and Dean Swank also 
attended.
( Related story on page 8).
by Elliot Ohlberg
1 started getting real dizzy and could 
hardly feel my feet, said one lithography 
student. She was describing how she felt 
two liours following a pre-final all-night
er last month in the studios of CMUs 
Coal Research Building.
If we are to stay in Coal Research, 
then extensive provisions have to be 
made for improving the air quality, 
stated Art Department Head Orville 
Winsand, in a recent interview.
It was two years ago when the Nation
al Association of Schools for Art (NASA) 
gave its accreditation, while also citing 
Coal Researchs air quality as being hazard
ous. Coal Research sits behind Warner Hall 
and houses CFAs entire printmaking operatiog. Since NASAs visit, a few temporary 
and relatively minor additions to the venti
lation system have been installed. The sit
uation is improved, but many of CFAs in
taglio, silkscreen, and lithography students 
do feel that the air should be made safer. 
The artistic processes involved require the 
students to spend long hours in the studio; 
often to the point of headaches and dizzi
ness, sometimes to the point of nausea or 
nosebleeds. The girl quoted in the opening 
paragraph was the most severe case the 
TARTAN found. Perhaps the effectsWRCT's Albums Found in Head Shop
WRCT, CMUs student radio station, has 
discovered several of its stolen albums at a 
local record shop, Heads Together, located 
on Murray Avenue in Squirrel Hill.
Chas Sislen, General Manager of WRCT, 
stated On Wednesday, January 10, we 
were informed by a CMU student that 
Heads Together, a record/head shop in 
Squirrel Hill, was selling albums marked 
Promotion - Not For Resale and stamp
ed with the WRCT label.
He added, That same day, Bill Goold, 
Program Director, bought a Hamilton 
Camp album which was marked as pre
viously mentioned. After conferring with 
lawyers and Security, on Monday, January 
15, the Pittsburgh Police and myself 
approached the Manager of Heads 
Together, George Kosht. After a brief 
search, we located 6 more albums marked 
WRCT.
Because it was a first offense, Sislen 
commented, no complaint was Filed . Civil 
damages are still being considered.
The TARTAN could not reach Kosht 
for comment concerning how the albums 
came to be sold at Heads Together. Sislen 
responded to the question as: I dont
know who got a hold of them, thougn 
until recently, our record library was easily 
accessed by most anyone visiting our 
studio. This situation has since changed. 
Authorized staff are the only people 
allowed access to the library.
Anyone found with WRCTs albums 
will be prosecuted to the full extent of 
law. They will be taken to the City Police; 
the crime is a felony and will be dealt 
with accordingly, Sislen warned.
WRCT requests that anyone knowing 
any information regarding the stolen 
albums, please call the station at 578-2883.
The Steeiers were super, and the CMU community was thrilled. Enthusiastic Steeler fans watched the game in dorm rooms, frats, and loeal bars, 
and helped cheer their team to victory. A sign in Warner Hall offered good luck during the week before the game (below). During the game, 
scores of students surrounded T.V.'s (above left) and after the game, students stayed warm while they watched the wild celebration outside.
of long-term exposure to carcinogenic 
organic solvent fumes is the most 
fundamental concern.
The TARTAN also conducted an inves
tigation of the air quality in the sculpture, 
ceramics, chemistry, and engineering lab 
areas of the campus. By far, the situation 
in the Art Department was deemed the 
most serious.
In the college of engineering, it would 
appear that the ventilation of the various 
labs is a concern which Dean Herbert 
Toor is remedying. This year, he elected 
to spend approximately $200,000 for a 
new central exhaust system for Electrical 
Engineerings semi-conductor lab in Ham* 
erschlag Hall. The Civil Engineering labs 
in Porter Hall need good ventilation due to 
the use of dry concrete and other powdery 
materials. The administrator for these labs 
told the TARTAN the ventilation could 
stand some improvement, particularly in 
the basement. (While being interviewed, 
that administrator was trying to locate 
the source of a mysterious smoke which 
permeated the air.)
Art students interviewed, with some 
exceptions, generally felt that the air does 
get hazardous at times, though they rarely 
curtailed their activities. One incident 
was reported in which three people who 
were working throughout the night in Coal 
Researchs basement could see the 
ordinarily invisible fumes. One said, Ive 
worked in other printmaking studios, and 
this is easily the worst.
Winsand stated that the Art Departcontinued on page 16
MG Tower Link
Plans Finalized
by Stuart Seidman
The long awaited plan for the renova
tion of Morewood A and B Towers is final
ly completed. The plan, released last week 
by Bill Dillon, Director of Auxiliary Ser
vices, shows that the towers will have two 
new lounges on every floor along with new 
bathrooms and improved emergency exits. 
It will be a new building when everything 
is done, Dillon asserted.
The plan details how the A and B Tow
ers will be connected on every floor. To 
connect the towers new lounge spaces wiU 
be created out of existing rooms and the 
current lounges will 1 rebuilt into living 
spaces. The final plan does not change 
continued on paoe 7
Enrollment 
Supported
by Ed Frankenberry
Theres really no basic reason why you 
cannot start classes on (the day of) reg
istration, says Dr. Edward Schatz. As vicepresident for Academic Affairs and Univ
ersity Provost, part of his job includes "cal
endar building,
Since most registration takes place in 
the previous semester, Schatz explained 
that enrollment day is primarily for in
coming freshmen and transfer students 
and much of that is done by mail. The 
transition for students wiU be smoother hi 
the future, he feels, when we pt tome 
bup out of the system.
One of the ibup which caused consi
derable confusion was that students wereTARTAN

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN
The trustees, according to their bylaws, are the 49 men 
and four women who manage and control the university. 
Thrice.yearly, they converge on this campus, and the Editor 
of the TARTAN is invited to observe them while they meet. 
Last Monday was their winter meeting.
Trustee-mania!
The Editor receives his invitation, dons his best (and on
ly) suit, cuts two classes, and heads for the fifth floor of 
Warner Hall (by way of the stairs . .. the elevator is crowd
ed with Trustees returning from lunch and the bathroom).
When he arrives, he is given a blue badge with his name 
calligraphed on it in black. He notices that all the trustees 
have white badges. He wonders, "Are they afraid theyll 
mistake me for a Trustee? He attempts a smile, rebuttons 
his vest so the holes match the buttons, and tries to look 
distinguished.
He greets John Tumazos, Student Government presi
dent and the only other youngster in the room. Bluebadged, Tumazos is preparing a short speech in which he 7/ 
tell the trustees exactly How students feel." "/ feel like 
I'm going to throw up, thats how I feel, the editor says, 
and Tumazos promises to tell that to the trustees in his 
speech. 4A good student leader always lets the adminis
tration know how students are feeling,  Tumazos says.
Entering the meeting room the Editor is overwhelmed. 
Long tables, and plush chairs fill the room. The walls are 
decorated with the portraits of five Carnegie-Mellon Pres
idents; Hamerschlag, Baker, Doherty, Warner, and Stever. 
The sixth President, Richard Cyert, sits at the front of 
the room waiting tor "his bosses to enter.
There is room on the wall for Cyerts portrait when he 
retires.The editor wonders whether Cyert will smile in 
his portrait. He debates going to the front of the room to 
ask the President, but decides against it.
All the trustees take their seats and begin leafing through 
the collection of papers, charts and motions placed in front 
of each chair. The men are old (most seem well over 65), 
conservatively dressed, and seem to know each other. They 
seem like good ol boys to the Editor.
Donald Burnham, the Chairman of the Board, and 
D/rector-Officer of Westinghouse Electric Corporation, calls 
the meeting to order. He gracefully leads the Trustees 
through a series of votes that are passed quickly without 
any discussion. Then the trustees approve the budget for 
the 1979-1980 school year. The finance committee rec
ommends It, and the trustees don 't ask many questions. 
They seem bored. The Editor wonders how men can be 
bored by a discussion concerning 62 million greenbacks.
He looks to his left. There sits H. J. Heinz II, Chairman of 
the Board, H. J. Heinz Company, and father of U. S. Sena
tor H. J. Heinz III. The man is almost asleep. The Editor 
figures it was a hard day at the Ketchup factory. Theres no 
way the man can be bored! Wake up H. J.! Look at the 
front of the room, Tumazos is telling you how students 
feel!
Then CMUs Vice President Van Horn gives his report on 
campus improvements. He is proud that the new furniture 
in Morewood is completely connected to the floor. The 
trustees shake their heads when they hear that students used 
to steal furniture all the time, the Editor feels embarrassed. 
He feels as if all eyes are upon him for being a member of 
the race that steals furniture.
Van Horn jokes that students can write with their fingers 
in the plush wall carpeting in the Highlander Room in Skibo. "Sometimes they are pretty creative with what they 
write," Van Horn admits. The Editor shrinks in his seat. 
Yes! Yes! He was guilty of rug graffitti when he was a fresh
man.
Van Horn wants to show slides, but there is too much 
light in the room. Lets wait until it gets dark,  one trustee 
suggests. They all laugh. The Editor doesnt laugh. He thinks 
they ought to pull down the shades, but hes too bashful to 
recommend it.
Cyert gives his state ot the university address. Hes happy 
and wants to be open with the trustees. He answers their 
questions and promises action with a "Ill get right to it! 
approach. The trustees seem to like him. They call him 
Dick.
Professor Gene Levy, Chairman of Faculty Senate, speaks 
briefly about faculty salaries. He says he appreciates that 
the administration is trying to raise salaries to keep pace
CONTINUED ON PAGE 5
a sz^\ /X
Letters
A Trusted FriendEd LorentoRick Weiss
Editor:Tom HauckDarius Kenya
The news of Andy FinnertysRide CappoJohn Maslany
death was a shock to those of usKevin BrownMartin J. Uram, Jr.
who were fortunate enough toAaron JohnsonThomas J. Gillespie
know him. Andy was both aRuss DauerAmy M. Pierce
trusted friend and a bright, dediRick HallJames P. Coffin
cated student who many of us likChristopher WellmanKen Gaydos
ed and admired. He will be sorelyRandy SherryWhen to Scream...
missed at Carnegie-Mellon, andMary Ann LawtonEditor:
our deepest sympathies go out toJeffrey JacobowitzAs a woman who was raped on
all his family and friends.Kenneth S. Limmerthe CMU campus, I was shocked
With great sorrow,. Joe Matorand angry to read one of the
The students, faculty and staff,Larry L. Wenger, Jr.preventive measures suggested
Electrical Engineering DepartmentAndy Judkisfo personal safety in last weeks
Steve YingJan J. Chermiarticle Safety Methods Re
Scott MourierCathy Stadlerviewed. Number 6 of the guide
James ScholzeKeith Kambieslines read,  if assaulted, scream....
George LimerionAnita Friedlanderscreaming is your number 1
Larry WrightMatt Kersendefense. Just screaming wont
Gigi GambrellNeil R. Bloombergworkit didnt for me. Screaming
Chuck LeeAlexander Knasteris only effective if its specific,
Rick SchroederEdward J. Grosslike Rape! or Police! or
Lee BeckstromGregg SabolFire!.
Ronald R. FoxAndrew S. MelderWhile I was being assaulted,
Brett DusenberySheldon WillisI screamed my head off, until the
David SeagleJamie Uberpain of being hit made me stop. It
Jonathan LuckayPhilip Thompsonwas mid-evening on a Saturday
Barney J. WilsonGeor^ R. Canepaand there were 2 parties in the
George G. WilsonEd Dachobuilding--no one paid any atten
George G. VickersDave Olisartion to my screams. In fact, I
TARTAN
Volume 79January 23, 1979Number 18
Editor-in-Chief:Jeff Zaslow
Managing Editors:Jean Pellegrini
V. R. V. Raman an
Business Manager:Stephanie Waite
News Editor:Brian Byrnes
Features Editor:Mory Brenner
FOLIO Editor:K. A. Yaksich
Entertainment Editor:Joan Livitski
Sports Editors:Howard Turner
Perry Colosimo
Photography Editor:Skip Brazelton
Production Managers:Neil Adler
John Qualley
Art Director:Dianne Lauble
Assistant News and Features Editor:Leslie Wener
Assistant News Editor: 
Assistant Features Editor:
Andrew Ragan 
Susan Borg
Copyright 1979 by the Carnegie-Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit or 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. 1^ unded in part by the Student Govern
ment of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices Skibo 50; (412) 578- 
2111 or 2112. Business Offices Skibo 52. (412) 578-2111.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

---------------------------------------------------

Responding to last week's VIEWS columnist, the author of this piece asked for his name to be withheld.JEWS
I feel that it is time for the Si
lent Majority to make a state
ment. This is in reply to the letter 
in the Tartan under Views entitl
ed And Innocence Shall Be No 
More. After having read this half 
page of black self-sympathy, Ive 
had my fill and will now speak my 
piece.
First, I will begin by agreeing 
with the author that America of 
the seventies is tired of *you and 
your problems.* The majority of 
Americans have their own prob
lems with finding employment, 
making a living and raising a fami
ly. Blacks only compound the 
problem by hollering discrimina
tion every time they are refused a 
job. Did it ever occur to you that
what is the white mans discrimi
nation is actually the black mans 
lack of qualification? The idea of 
preferential treatment, Affirmitive Action or whatever you call 
it is a very sore spot indeed. Sure
ly, you didnt expect all the 
wounds of the black-white issue 
to be mended overnight? All you
do with your persistence in raising 
the dead is aggravate a situation 
that is healing.
Second, why do you even need 
any preferential treatment in the 
way of attaining admission to 
schools, jobs or any other area? If 
you can pass a test, an exam, or 
any qualifications then you de
serve the job. In fact, friend, if 
you would take the time to inves
tigate, you would find federal 
laws that require agencies to em
ploy people without regard to 
race, color or creed. If you are 
qualified, you must be given the 
job, it cannot be denied or else 
you have a legitimate reason to 
cry discrimination. Quotas mere
ly add fuel to the fire of hatred 
that you contend exists. Quotas 
of employment for blacks also in
sure that some unqualified indiv
iduals will be given jobs, thereby 
reflecting badly on all blacks.
Third, what right do blacks 
have to claim that whites owe 
them something, or as you phrase 
it reparation for historical suf
fering? Further, what white ac
knowledgement of *historical 
guilt do I admit to? My friend, I 
owe you nothing just as you owe 
me nothing nor does anyone owe 
anyone else anything. You only 
get in this world what you de
serve, no freebies are given. Be
sides, I myself as well as a large 
percentage of this papers readers, 
owe you not a thing. Most of my 
friends and I are descendants of 
immigrants from Eastern and 
Southern Europe who arrived here 
at least 30 years after the Civil 
War was over. We in particular 
owe no one anything. We Slavs, 
Italians, Greeks and others were 
exploited by the corporate con
trollers similar, very similar, to the 
slave experience of blacks. Yet, 
even today, we are branded 
Dagos, Hunkies, Millhunks 
and other such degrading names. 
They tell jokes about our nation
alities and treat us like pack 
mules. Yet, our fathers learned 
English, went to school, and even 
took names such as Millhunky
and made them terms of endear
ment, almost a source of strength. 
We overcame and are still over
coming great odds without feeling 
sorry for ourselves, lowering stan
dards or needing quotas of any 
type. I think, friend, that possibly 
you should reflect on this experi
ence, for I came from basically 
the same downtrodden stock you 
did.
Lastly, I have as much respect 
for great blacks as I do whites. I 
respect Joe Louis as much as 
Rocky Marciano, Jackie Robinson 
as well as Bill Mazeroski, Andrew 
Young as well as Adlai Stevenson. 
Color is not an issue nor does it 
make the man. All these men were 
great because they overcame simi
lar problems and hard times. To
day, I have a great many black 
friends, in fact they have been 
very close to me. They ask nothing 
of me and the only thing I owe 
them is respect as a human being. 
Being part of an institution, I have 
learned to overcome my feelings 
as you will. People do work to
gether and help each other, re
gardless of color. Basically, the 
writer of this letter had similar 
feelings as you. I was tired of be
ing branded a Hunky, not a man. I 
didnt want to be stereotyped any 
more than you do. But that is 
past, those feelings gone. Youre 
only a freshman, youll learn that 
it really doesnt matter what any
one thinks. You can begin by not 
calling yourself a nigger, the 
word you so Iposly threw around 
in your letter, but a Mack, proud 
as I am of my heritage, but learn
ing to cope with a world basically, 
in America, that is Anglo-Saxon. 
Dont ever lose your heritage, but 
strengthen it through your associ
ation with the majority as my 
people did when they left Europe 
for America. Do not ask, but con
tribute. The people that matter 
wont consider you a nigger as 
you put it, but a man. In conclu
sion, let me state that I havent 
signed this letter because no one 
would really believe it was I who 
wrote it.
more Letters
could hear screams mixed with 
the laughter coming from the 
parties. No one paid any attention 
to mine. Women often scream, 
especially at college parties, when 
they arent being raped.
Think how often on a weekend 
you hear screams. I hear them at 
least once a weekend somewhere 
on campus. Often after running to 
find out who screamed, I discover 
two friends fooling around.
One point to learn from this is 
always investigate screams, even at 
a party. Women can get raped, 
and men can be robbed at a party.
Another point is that just 
screaming wont be a good 
defense until women on this 
campus learn to think of others 
who mean their screams. If youre 
in trouble and scream, make it 
specific. Otherwise, please dont 
scream altogether.
A better alternative is investing 
some time and money in Karate 
lessons, for example those offered 
by the Feminist Karate Union and 
the Karate Women, or using the 
CMU escort service for even the 
shortest of trips. These 
alternatives are worth the time; 
the horror of being raped is 
unforgettable.
name withheld by request 
Thanks, Mom
Editor:
Just wanted to say thank you 
to the TARTAN for printing the 
feature article A Mothers Mes
sage to Her Son. The letter was 
both sincere and profound and 
seemed to be written with an 
enormous amount of love. I was 
touched by it, and 1 know others 
on my floor were also. It made me 
want to head for the phone to call 
my mother.
M. Young
Martin Luther King dishEditor:
After the fuss last semester re
garding green milkshakes in the 
grill, I laughed when a number of 
letter-writers suggested chocolate 
shakes for Martin Luther King 
Day.
Well, Martin Luther Kings
birthday was last Monday, and I 
was eating lunch in the faculty 
dining room. As I ate with a num
ber of other faculty members, we 
came to a realization and we 
couldnt help but chuckle. The 
meal was excellent; the best bar
becued spare-ribs Id ever tasted. 
Surprisingly, Food Service didnt 
serve watermelon for dessert.
Was it bad timing or will spareribs become an annual M.L.K. 
birthday dish?
name withheld upon request
White Americans
Editor:
The writer of the Views 
column of the January 16 
TARTAN, if I correctly un
derstand him , desires that 
Blacks be looked at as indiand for three columns thereafter, 
he describes the shortcomings and 
incapabilities of White Ameri
cans, and ends by declaring he 
wont be to blame if he metes 
out justice, not caring if this white 
individual or that white individual 
ever did a thing in his or her life 
to Blacks.
I ask of him the same consider
ation he asks of me-a willingness 
to understand and judge my per
ception of justice independent of 
his biases toward my race. I, too, 
am tiredparticularly tired of the 
assumption that, because Im 
white, I have some inalterable bias 
that can only be dealt with by 
governmental edict. I believe the 
column in question is symptomat
ic of an implicitly racist view 
which is fostered rather than dis
couraged by affirmative action, 
reverse discrimination, prefer
ential treatment, or whatever 
you care to call it.
Jim Hoburg
My opinion
Editor,
When I began reading the 
VIEWS column in last weeks 
Tartan, 1 felt I was reading the 
words of an intelligent indiv
idual. Although I did not agree 
with everything that was said, I 
felt that the writer was someone
with whom I could debate the 
points in an intelligent manner 
that would benefit us both. 
Unfortunately, I no longer felt 
this way by the time I had fin
ished the article.
My first point of disagreement 
is the implication that nothing 
has ever been done to resolve 
the mistreatment of Blacks. May 
I point out that Thomas Jeffer
son wanted slavery abolished in 
this country. Unfortunately, he 
failed, since abolision would have 
split the Union before it was 
formed. It wasnt much, but one 
man was trying.
The dilemma was again con
fronted in the Civil War and 
again during the Sixties with the 
law changes that kindled Black 
hopes of similar changes in 
whites attitudes.
No, we havent reached full 
equality in our hearts as well 
as in the law, but we are making 
progress. Slow progress, to be 
sure, but changes like this just 
cant occur as rapidly as we 
wish.
My second point is that af
firmative action has gone too 
far. The writer tells us that 
preferential treatment is the 
reparation our historical suffer
ing demands. Perhaps, but who 
will repair the injuries done to 
those who would have gotten 
those jobs or promotions had 
it not been for reverse discrimin
ation?
An example:
Every year, the Sheet Metal 
Workers Union in this area gives 
a test to approximately 700 
applicants. The top scoring 20-25 
applicants are granted Sheet Metal 
Apprenticeships. However, a cer
tain percentage, approximately 
20%, must be Blacks, regardless 
of how they scored. It has hap
pened that whites have been 
cheated out of jobs they needed 
and deserved.
Finally, the writer speaks of 
trust. May I say to him or her, 
trust is a mutual convenience. 
When you threaten to mete out
your justice to an innocent 
white individual, you make your
self as morally undeserving of 
trust as the most bigoted person, 
(black or white), alive.
You tell us that whites better 
find out who is doing these 
terrible things to Blacks. My 
friend, you are just as respon
sible as anyone; If we are all 
to responsibly live together, it will 
take many years to develop com
plete mutual trust and under
standing. Our children may not 
see the day, but friend, if many 
people share your attitudes, our 
grandchildren will not see the day.
Name withheld upon request 
"Super'* review 
Editor:
I believe a review of facts is 
needed in the case of Superman. 
One should feel pity, not awe, 
for this strange visitor from 
another world. Heres some 
reasons why:
Supermans father, Jor-el, was 
a'brilliant scientist on Krypton. 
The people and the bureaucracy 
refused to believe that anyone or 
anything could ever disrupt their 
advanced technological way of 
life. Jor-el correctly comprehended 
that any society is full of faults 
and limited by an over reliance 
on technology. No one listened to 
him. If this sounds like the United 
States in the sixties, youve got 
the point. Krypton was inhabited 
by people with some of the same 
faults as we have.
OX., Krypton is destroyed. 
Where does this leave Kal-el? He is 
an orphan in the broadest sense
what they do not understand. 
Kryptonite is Supermans most 
minor worry.
Why the secret identity? 
Havent you ever asked yourself 
that? The reason, to me, seems 
crystal clear. Superman is a 
stranger in a strange land. He 
wants love, but knows none is 
possible. (Remember, we are as 
alien as plants to Superman. Also, 
making love would prove fatal to 
the girl involved.) If you put 
yourself in Supermans place you 
can see why he doesnt just solve 
crime all over the world and 
forget about being Clark Kent. He 
needs to belong, to have friends.
Superman is as frail as,we are. 
Perhaps even more so. The man of 
steel has a heart of Kleenex. Pity 
him if you can.
Stephen Salgaller 
B.S. Physics 1978
"Forest Devil fund 
Editor:
On October 21,1978, a celebra
tion was had in Mellon Square in 
which Mayor Richard Caliguiri 
and Leon Arkus praised the stamless steel sculpture entitled For
est Devil by Kenneth Snelson 
which is presently located ai that 
square.
The Womens Committee has 
undertaken the task of raising 
funds to purchase this sculpture 
for the museums permanent col
lection. To date, half of the funds 
have been raised. There is still 
$35,000.00 more to raise. We 
would like the people of the City
the only survivor of a dead Pittsburgh to feel that they
world. He is surrounded by aliens. ^ave participated in the purchase 
He wants to prevent war and des- public art work. If anyone
truction on earth, but he has his in your campus community would 
limitations. Our yellow sun only cons*der a contribution of his/her
hardened his skin. He needs love 
and affection. He has the same 
weaknesses that his own people 
had. He cant be careless  one 
slip and a handshake could kill 
someone. (You could be torn 
apart or hurled into orbit.) Worst 
of all, he has to deal with human 
beings almost instinctive fear of
own determination, they do so by 
mailing a check to the Womens 
Committee, Museum of Art, Car
negie Institute, 4400 Forbes Ave
nue, Pittsburgh, PA, 15213.
Mrs. Henry Oliver, Jr. 
PresidentWomens Committee 
Museum of Art-Carnegie Insti
tute

---------------------------------------------------

This is an excerpt from Sam Jultys keynote address at the Conference on the Impact of E.R.A. on the Changing Roles of Men. 
The conference was held December 2nd at Pitt.VIEWS
Equality of rights under the law 
shall not be denied or abridged by 
the Unitd States or by any state 
on account of sex.
Thats all there is to Section 
One of the proposed Equal Rights 
Amendment to the U. S.-Consti
tution.
If you were to ask a random 
group of men what those 24 
words meant youd probably 
hear:
Its that womens amendment. 
Its one of those women lib 
things.
You know the women think 
they are not getting a fair shake so 
they want to change the whole 
constitution around.
While there is some truth in 
these responses, they are particles 
of a bigger truth. While there is no 
doubt that the ERA is a very im
portant instrument for women in 
their struggles for equality, there 
must also be no doubts that the 
ERA goes beyond being just a 
feminist issue. Ever since the 
amendment was first introduced 
in Congress in 1923 it stands as a 
bold challenge to the false pre
sumptions inherent in those laws 
based on sex. Listen to it again: 
Equality of rights under the law 
shall not be denied or abridged by 
the United States or any state 
on account of sex.
Surely you dont need a degree 
in constitutional law to see that 
there is nothing in this amend
ment which restricts its protec
tions solely or specifically to 
women. To insist that ERA is a 
womens amendment is to give 
it limitations. Its like describing 
the 14th Amendment as a black 
peoples amendment because, 
among other things, it established 
citizenship for former slaves and 
assured them due process and 
equal protection of law. Yet since 
the 14th was ratified in 1868 it 
has been invoked by petitioner 
and court alike in cases involving 
freedom of religion; patriotic con
science; freedom of speech and
press; just compensation for ac
quisition of land under eminent 
domain; the right to join labor 
unions; and the right of the feder
al government to regulate inter
state commerce .. .
It is no act of treason to assert 
that the U. S. Constitution is not 
a perfect document. In 200 years 
it has been amended 26 times to 
bring it into focus with current 
political realities, and to rectify 
the inadequacies of past formula
tions. In demanding that the ERA 
become the 27th Amendment we 
are being entirely consistent with 
these purposes because an end to 
sex discrimination is todays po
litical need, and the present law of 
the land, even with a 14th 
Amendment, cannot provide it.
Second, the need for a 14th in 
its time is similar to the need for 
an ERA in our time. The 14th was 
promulgated, passed and ratified 
after the Civil War when it was 
clear that some of the key 
amendments in the Bill of Rights 
had holes big enough for the 
states to ride their own laws 
through them. In its time the 14th 
gave protections and due process 
to parties in the states suffering 
political, racial, economic, age and 
judicial discrimination. However, 
while the 14th has served well as a 
patch for the holes in the previous 
amendments, todays realities 
show it suffers some leakage of its 
own which needs plugging 
namely, its inability to protect 
against sex descrimination.
None of the existing amend
ments can offer such protections. 
Thats why we need one which 
will specifically affirm the basic 
principle that the sex of the citi
zen can no longer be a permissible 
factor in determining his or her 
rights, duties, and obligations. 
Thats what ERA is all about; and 
don't kid yourselves about how 
much we need it. The number of 
laws and court decisions deter
mined solely on the basis of sex 
are frightening ghosts haunting
our house of democracy.
Third, not only is the 14th in
adequate in giving protections 
against sex discrimination, it of
fers no guarantees against the Su
preme Court contradicting itself 
not reversing itself, but ignoring 
its own previous interpretation of 
the 14th ...
Fourth, while we men have 
fared a little better than women 
with the protections of the 14th 
Amendment, we are still not 
home-free with it. We need an 
ERA because we cannot escape 
the indirect and specific disrup
tions sex discrimination brings to 
our lives. Men must start realizing 
the truth to that old trade-union 
slogan: An injury to one is an 
injury to all. Just as long as any 
government body has the power 
to remove the protections of law 
from one group it can remove it 
from another; just as long as any 
business group can move their 
women workers around or pay 
them on the basis of sex, we men 
are in danger of this happening to 
us. Indeed, as I shall point out in a 
moment, those dangers have been 
realized in many statutes dealing 
with various aspects of our lives.
I give you more than heroic, 
political poetry when I remind 
you that no-one is really free until 
all are free. When the southern 
states had literacy tests and a poll 
tax to keep blacks from voting, 
many an uneducated and poor 
white citizen couldnt make it to 
the polls. When state legislators 
passed sedition laws in the 50sto 
protect themselves from the socalled communist menace, many 
labor leaders went to jail for talk
ing about higher wages . . .
If there is anything you can 
trust in American politics, you 
can trust it to be fickle. If there is 
anything that will make Ameri
can politics loyal to the concepts 
of individual freedoms we cherish, 
it would be to plug the holes in 
the old laws or write new ones 
even our politicians can read.
And, anyone less than a political 
neophyte can understand Section 
One of the ERA: Equality of 
rights under the law shall not be 
denied or abridged by the United 
States or by any state on account 
of sex.'
While it is true that women 
have the most to gain from ratifi
cation of the ERA because of the 
high degree of sex discrimination 
in our society, and while it is also 
true that many men are deeply 
involved in the political activities 
which will assure its ratification 
for that reason alone, we must 
also be aware that the general 
population of men will benefit di
rectly when this amendment 
becomes the law of the land ...
Now look at some of those 
laws affecting men.
Marriage laws. ITEM: The age 
at which a person may marry 
without parental permission is 
called the age of consent. In 22 
states the age of consent is higher 
for the male than for the female. 
The presumptions here are, a) a 
woman is ready for marriage ear
lier than a man, and b) men are 
assumed to be wage earners and 
need more time to prepare for 
their lifes work skills, while 
women are assumed to end up as 
homemakers. ITEM: In all states 
only the husband is legally liable 
for the support of the family unit. 
A wife may support a husband 
only if he is incapacitated or in
digent. ITEM: In all states a hus
band must support his children;in 
47 states it is a criminal offense 
not to do so . . .
Grounds for divorce. ITEM: 
Non-support by the husband-30 
states. In only Arkansas and 
North Dakota may a man sue for
divorce on similar grounds   
Alimony. In 17 states either 
party in a divorce may sue for 
alimony. In the other 33 states 
alimony is permitted only to the 
wife, regardless of the circum
stances.
Child custody. Though com
mon law makes the father natural 
guardian and entitled to custody 
of his child, which is ridiculous in 
this day and age, and though 
Missouri, Florida, Minnesota, New 
York, and Colorado favor equal 
rights for both parents, 90% of all 
custody cases are decided in favor 
of the motherwhich I contend is 
equally ridiculous
Laws on rape and sodomy. 
Here are clear examples of how 
sex-specific wording creates dis
advantages for women as well as 
men. Most states and the Model 
Penal Code define rape as the for
cing of sexual intercourse by a 
man on a woman without her 
consent. The first flaw here is the 
limiting of rape to sexual inter
course. This provides a very large 
loophole for a sexual assailant 
who has committed any number 
of atrocities, but has omitted 
sexual intercourse from the attack 
The second flaw is that only a 
woman can be a victim of rape 
and only a man can be a perpet
rator. Thus sexual assaults on a 
female, by females- which is not 
unknown, particularly in institu
tions-- falls outside the definition 
of rape and must be prosecuted 
on other, less threatening, 
statutes
Statutory rape. Any male 
having sexual intercourse with a 
female below the age of 16 or 18 
can be prosecuted for statutory 
rape. The law applies whether he 
knew the young womans age or 
not. Maximum penalty is life 
imprisonment. The law has two 
gross inequities. First, it rules out 
peer sex relationships by assuming 
that only older men make sexual 
overtures to younger women. 
Second, it presupposes that a 
younger woman is incapable of 
giving meaningful consent   
I hope these examples of sex 
discrimination are enough to 
make everyone here aware how 
men can gain when ERA is finally 
ratified .  
more Letters
Troubles With Shirley 
Editor:
Perhaps the salient problem 
with Shirley apartments is the lack 
of security. This is due in part at 
least to the lack of preventative 
maintenance.
I refer specifically to the rotten 
window frames. The wood has 
rotted to the point that the out
side windows fall out. Nails and 
screws pull right out. Thus, the 
only protection from thieves first 
floor residents have is an old loose 
wood frame screen window that 
locks with a simple hook.
Recently I demonstrated the 
ease of entry through the win
dows once when a girl locked her
self out of her room. By gently 
tapping the glass window, it easily 
falls out of place and quietly into 
my waiting arms. By gently push
ing on the screen window, I was 
able to insert my plastic comb and 
unhook the window. From there 
it was an easy matter to hop in
side the girls bedroom and open 
the apartment door. Total elapsed 
time was less than two minutes
with no struggle or noise. It takes 
this long to come in through the 
front door.
There are several such vunerable windows in other apartments. 
Some windows still have sturdy 
frames but do not lock. Nine of 
eighteen first floor residents are 
female.
Our aparment door was appar
ently forced open. The damage is 
still quite evident. Wood putty 
was used to fill in the cracks and 
broken pieces of wood. A few 
hard kicks could easily open our 
door again, as wood putty is a fil
ler used for cosmetic purposes. It 
should not be used as a substitute 
for wood when security is involv
ed.
Aproximately 70% of the mail
boxes do not work. Some are 
locked shut, some dont lock at 
all, some keys dont fit. This prob 
lem was of top priority to many 
of us at the beginning of the sem
ester. The problem was reported 
to housing and a month later new 
keys were issued. The new keys 
were larger and shinier than the 
original but still did not work be
cause they were only new copies 
of the original keys. If the old 
keys didnt work, why should 
copies? The locks have not been 
fixed. People are now aware of 
housings attitude and are resigned 
to the problems of a community 
mailbox.
Batteries in the buildings 
smoke detectors ran down in Sep
tember. They were replaced two 
months later. We were not given 
toilet paper and cleanser like the 
other dorms until our RA specif
ically asked for it. Trying to save 
some money?
Sealer around bathtubs deter
iorates and must be replaced every 
several years or so. It has been so 
long since this was done that ours 
is black with rot and turns grey 
when wet. It matches the peeling 
paint, broken tiles, rotting wood 
door and window frames, stained 
toilets, mold, cracked toilet cover. 
This is how it was when we got 
here - not how it became. Think 
about cleaning yourself in such 
conditions.
Water literally pours through 
the floor under our next door
neighbors tub onto an electrical 
outlet below. Last friday I wit
nessed a literal waterfall descend
ing on this outlet. The outlet had 
two cords plugged into it that 
were coiled on the floor in a pud
dle of water and running outside 
somewhere.
The outlet is right next to one 
of our two washers. On Friday, 
when everyone does laundry, the 
chances for a fatal accident are 
shocking. I wonder how many 
people are aware of the problem 
and can avoid it. How could hous
ing explain this to a dead student?
This specific situation was 
communicated previously to 
Housing and they came the next 
day. They did such a bad job, that 
the problem is now worse. I 
would think that doing a good job 
to correct such a hazardous situa
tion would be of top priority.
Electrical outlets in this build
ing are minimal. They were instal
led prior to the development of 
many of present modern day con
veniences. The result is a fire ha
zard in every room. 4 and 5 cords 
per outlet is average. On old 12
There are no outlets in the bath 
and an extention cord must be 
used to plug in the refrigerator. 
The one outlet in our kitchen is 
virtually useless due to its loca
tion.
The refrigerator is so old the 
plastic door sealer has hardened 
and cracked. Moist air enters and 
causes frost to build up around the 
freezer. Defrosting weekly is a 
must in order to open the freezer 
compartment. At least ours works 
a little, some fridges here died al
together years ago.
Only two of our gas burners 
work on our stove and it leaks gas. 
There is no ventilation in the 
kitchen so a window must be left 
open to minimize the smell. Oh 
well, the windows dont all lock 
anyway. No counterspace exists in 
the kitchen and the result is fixing 
food on ones desk.
A markedly irritating pain in 
my side is the lack of parking. I 
had to drive 30 hours to get here 
so I could not easily take my car 
back home. I literally had no
continued on page five

---------------------------------------------------

more Letters
continued from page four
place to put my car. Think about 
what this means.
The street is metered and the 
meters only last 2 hours. I cant 
walk 20 min. each way every 2 
hours each day to put a quarter in 
the meter. The result was several 
tickets. I had no early classes so 
when I came to school, parking 
spaces were at a premium and us
ually a ten minute walk from 
class. Meters resulted in several 
trips and tickets.
I was finally awarded a parking 
space at Morewood for $62. I 
planned to leave my car there and 
walk during the week. My relief 
by paying for the solution to the 
problem was dimmed when my 
car was broken into and several 
valuable items stolen.
The maintenance man here, 
Roy Beebe, has been very helpful 
and understanding with regards to 
many minor maintenance prob
lems. I often wish housing could 
be as helpful, but then Roy lives 
here and sees what goes on. It is 
much easier for housing to dismiss 
this building since we are not on 
campus. Out of sight, out- of 
mind.
While sarcastic at times, this 
letter is serious. I am not looking 
for things to complain about for 
the sake of giving Housing a hard 
time. I have left out problems not 
directly under Housings control.
The things I mentioned are real 
and some serious. Rent for this 
single room comes to $335 a 
month for the year. Where is this 
money going? Certainly not for 
repairs and security here.
This building has been coming 
apart for some time now, judging 
from the severity of some of the 
problems. It is obvious that hous
ing is attempting to save money 
by not spending any here.
Being a business student, I re
cognize the importance of minimiz
ing expenses, but how can Hous
ing justify doing this to the point 
of jeopardizing the sfaety and well 
being of the students? Just exact
ly what are the costs involved here 
and who is paying for what?
Ronald H. Clond 
Apt. 7
Editor's Note: This is the second 
letter the TARTAN has recieved 
wherein the living conditions at 
the Shirley Apartments have been 
documented. The TARTAN 
requests that the Director of 
Housing and/or the Director of 
Auxiliary Services respond to the 
complaints and address the 
problem in general, via the 
TARTAN.
Thoughts on TomorrowEditor:
Bravo! What a beautiful letter. 
(Mothers Message to Her Son. 
Jan. 16). I dont think I have ever 
felt my own feelings externalized 
better. It has also given me the 
confidence to write this letter, 
which has weighed on my mind 
some time now.
Look-look around ye students 
of CMU. Do you see that life 
force generating the energy of 
which she spoke? I feel it now 
and then. When I walk into Fine 
Arts and I hear strains of Tchai
kovsky echoing and mingling with 
the shouts of actors performing 
some obscure medieval play, and I 
see artists sitting on the floors and 
stairs faithfully, painfully trying
to render the grand space of the 
main hallway, I feel it when I 
walk into Science Hall on some 
obscure errand and I see students 
arguing in the hallways over theo
retical matrices or scurrying 
around banks upon banks of com
puter, trying to find out how to 
successfully extract drops of 
knowledge from its complicated 
electronic intricacies. Or, in Baker 
Hall where I can hear students 
discussing Miltons ideas on uto
pia.
This school is uniquenowhere 
can you find such a beautiful ar
ray of intellect and talent. No
where can you find such a concen-, 
' trated effort at excellence in so 
many different fields.
Yet one thing troubles me 
greatly. With a school that main
tains such a high level of learning 
why is there so much destructive 
criticism and petty bickering among the different colleges? By 
destructive I am referring to com
ments made on Fruits and Vege
tables, the attacks on H&SS, the 
homosexual activities of out-ofstate Frats. My father taught me 
something about criticism which 
I find invaluable. If you are going 
to attack something you had 
damn well better be able to offer 
some alternatives. I have seen very 
few alternatives proposed. Dont 
expect someone else to do the 
hard work. The criticism comes 
easy, but just voicing it does not 
solve the problems. Actively par
ticipating in school organizations 
and activities does. (This is the 
solution I propose to my criti
cism). Become involvedthere are
a myriad of organizations trying 
to enhance the interaction be
tween the different disciplines 
that exist on campus. Yet I see 
the same faces in these organiza
tions over and over again.
To strive for excellence in any 
field you must be aware of and 
participate in the other schools 
of learning. There are no excep
tions; not in the arts, the sciences, 
or the humanities.
There is a fantastic pool of ta
lented and bright students here. 
Dont waste your gifts on beer 
and television. Open yourself up 
theres a wealth of different expe
riences out there. If there is any 
place where there exists a life 
force to better the world, it is 
here. We are the ones who will 
shape tomorrow. Respectfully, 
Andy Epstein
Why, Oh, Why ?
Editor:
Why is it that A.B. sells two 
tickets to each person at the mo
vies, only to retain both of them 
at the gate? Senate appropriates 
money for the printing of the 
tickets and money could be 
saved if A.B. would decide to 
sell only one ticket to a customer! 
Sign me,
Curious
The TARTAN welcomes lettersto-the-editor from the entire 
campus community. The letters 
should be signed and cannot be 
printed otherwise. Names will be 
withheld upon request. Mail let
ters to Box 17, campus mail, or 
drop them off at the offices of 
the TARTAN in Skibo.
Congratulations
Steelers!!!
The North Texas Daily is placing 
this ad after losing a bet with the 
Carnegie-Mellon student news
paper, The TARTAN, in Pitts
burgh, Pa.
TARTAN
Trustee-mania!!
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 2
with other competitive schools. Levy somehow seems 
different from the trustees, as if hes trying to stay apart 
from the other men in the room. He wears a turtle-neck 
sweater. The Editor wonders if the trustees notice the 
turtle-neck. Straightening his tie, he decides that the trus
tees must think that Levy is a hippie.
Donald Burnham announces that there will be a short 
break, but as soon as he rings the newly installed bell at the 
head table they must file back in for the rest of the meeting. 
He practices ringing the bell so they can hear what it sounds 
like. They come to the conclusion that It :s a pretty meak 
sounding thing. Its barely audible, even though there are 
speakers in the outer foyer. They take their break drinking 
canned sodas, and wait to hear the bell.
During the break, the Editor is approached by a distinguished-looking man who extends his hand and says, 44 Hi, 
Im Warner . . . like the Hall. You know, Warner Hall. The 
Editors mouth drops. Hes sharing a soda break with John 
Christian Warner, President of CMU from 1950 to 1965. He 
giggles. He is standing on the fifth floor of Warner Hall talk
ing to A\r. Warner himself. 44Im enjoying the TARTAN this 
year,  Warner says. Your staff is doing a good job.  The 
bell rings in the. foyer and the trustees mosey back into the 
meeting room. The Editor is experiencing a "natural high. 
The Editor sits down next to Dean Swank and asks to 
see his Trusteed handbook, listing all the men, their job 
positions and accomplishments. It reads like a Whos Who 
of American Big Shots. Robert Anderson, President of 
Rockwell International;William Baker, President, Bell La - 
oratories; Richard S. Caliguiri, Mayor of important Ameri
can city; Robert Dickey, President, Dravo Corporation; 
James E. Lee, President Gulf Oil; Gerald C. Meyers, Presi
dent, American Motors Corporation; David Roderick, 
President, United States Steel; and Herbert A. Simon, N. P. 
winner and local celebrity.
The Editor gulps. He's in somewhat important company, 
he figures. He wonders if maybe he and the rest of the guys 
in the room can go down to Allies after the meeting for a 
few beers. No, he decides, they probably drink scotch.
Meanwhile, the meeting continues. Chairman Burnham 
reads a letter from a trustee who just donated a large sum 
of money to the university. The letter asks the other trus
tees to also give generously. Quality education needs sup
port. The letter-writer is pleading. The Editor finds that 
the trustees are doing their part. Together, they ve pledged 
over 21A million dollars to CMU in the past few years. They 
must be rich, the editor concludes.
After a few committee reports, Chairman Burnham 
makes his concluding statements. He says that at lunch he 
heard speeches by student leaders and was very impressed. 
He says that hes proud of CMU students, and has a great 
deal of respect for them and their accomplishments. He 
says that hed like the othe trustees to realize that even 
though most of what they discuss deals with budgets and 
administrative "managing there is a reasorj for their ac
tivity. There are students at CMU, he says, and we 
shouldnt lose sight of the fact that they re why we re here 
as trustees. 
The editor has the urge to applaud, but he remains calm. 
The meeting is adjourned. The editor says goodbye to 
Richard (call me Dick) Cyert, and skips down the five 
flights of stairs to the sidewalk.
Back on earth, he loosens his tie, and heads home. Over 
dinner, he announces his observations to some friends.
"/ have been with the gods, the editor says, 41and 
they are human! 
Jeffrey Zaslow 
Editor-in-Chief
msmmMsmmmstMsmmmsmmm
The TARTAN made a Super Bowl bet with the North 
Texas Daily, the student newspaper at North Texas State 
University. Naturally, we picked the Steelers to be 
victorious in the game.
The editorial board of the North Texas Daily, as losers of 
the bet, will be printing the quarter page ad at left in their 
newspaper today.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6TARTANJanuary 23, 1979
Mech. Eng. Head Murphy 
Judges Design Contest
Dr. Arthur P. Murphy, head of the 
Mechanical Engineering Department, was 
one of three educators who were judges 
for Dayco Corporations design engineer
ing competition.
Named the Rube Goldberg Contest by 
the Dayton-based manufacturer of rubber 
and plastic components, entries were 
patterned after the cartoon-like approach 
made famous by Goldberg. To qualify,
at least 15 Dayco products had to be 
incorporated into the design.
Winner of the $5,000 first prize was 
Tom Garrity, Nashua, N.H., for his entry 
entitled The Nightlight Candle Wiffer. 
Five other prizes totaling $6,000 were 
also awarded.
Murphy was joined as a contest judge 
by Dr. David V. Ragone, University of 
Michigan, and Dr. Herbert Richardson, 
M.I.T.
Senate Wants Dates Changed
At last week^s meeting, Senate elected a 
vice-chairman, heard about the Trustees 
meeting, and discussed the Academic cal
endar.
Scott Sibley, Senator from CIT, was 
elected to fill the vacant office of vicechairman .
Student Government President John 
Tumazos reported about the Trustees 
meeting. Tumazos said that a number of 
us complained that the University seeks 
student input but doesnt always react to 
it. He also spoke to the Trustees about 
the Martin Russ case and how this relates 
to the University as a teaching and research 
institution.
The Academic Affairs Committee re
viewed the calendar for the next three 
school years with Dr. Schatz, Vice-President for Academic Affairs. The most 
objectionable points to the Senate seem to 
be the overlapping of enrollment and first 
day of classes and the lack of any reading 
days before finals. Gary Moshier reported 
that as far as I can tell, no amount of stu
dent input will change enrollment day. 
Dean Swank commented that for these 
changes (reading day, seperate enrollment
day) to take place, you would have to 
make a comparable substitution of class 
days. The Senate is conducting a survey 
of students opinions of the calendar, and a 
final recommendation is expected at to
nights meeting.
Petitions for vacant seats in CFA, 
H&SS, and CIT are available at the Skibo 
Information Desk. Petitions are due before 
midnight January 27.
Arthur Murphy, head of the Mechanical Engineering Department, acted as a judge of engineering 
design in a recent Dayco Corporation contest.
Dillon Proposes New Dorm
Soon, a new Committee for Reorganiza
tion of Student Government will be 
formed. Student Senate has appointed Eric 
Anderson (CFA) to organize the group. A 
similar committee was formed last spring 
but was disbanded when the old chairman 
resigned under academic pressure. Personal
ly, Anderson would like to see Senate 
become more responsive to the students, 
and thinks switching the representation 
from colleges to departments will help. 
Anderson wants fresh blood on the 
committee, and advises interested people 
to get in touch with him through the 
Student Senate Academic Affairs mailbox. 
Even if one has a suggestion but no time, 
their ideas are welcome.
by Stuart Seidman
According to Bill Dillon, Director of 
Auxiliary Services, the University is con
templating construction of another dormi
tory. The proposed site for the new dorm 
is the open piece of ground adjacent to 
Doherty House. This site was first desig
nated for the Solar Energy Lab in 1977, 
but when the Mechanical Engineering 
Department could not secure enough funds 
for the lab, the project was cancelled. 
Dillon sees the piece of ground as the last 
open site on campus where a dormitory 
could be built.
Plans for the new dorm are currently at 
a very preliminary stage. A request for a 
loan from the U.S. Department of Housing 
and Urban Development (HUD) was turned 
down last year for the project. Dillon informed the TARTAN that the University 
is hoping for a change in the HUD regula
tions that would give the CMU project 
higher funding priority this year.
In the HUD application for funds, CMU 
reports that the new building will contain 
100 apartments which will house 250 stu
dents. It would have 50 two person effi
ciences, and 50 three-person, one-bedroom 
apartments. All of the units are expected 
to be rented unfurnished. According to 
Dillon, if the University is unable to rent 
all of the units to students, it would con
sider opening the building to outsiders. 
With the shortage of decent off-campus 
housing for students in the east end of 
Pittsburgh, Dillon said, Investment in 
real estate around here is excellent.
I
s
:E:I
:Is:
E
EE
Campus Program Planning and the Department of Residence Life 
present an eight part Human Sexuality Program. All programs will 
be held in the Wherrett Room, Skibo at 8:00 P.M. and are open to the campus at no charge. Speakers will include professional doctors and 
counselors from the CMU and Pittsburgh area.
Thurs. Jan. 25 
Mon. Jan. 29
Thur. Feb. 1 
Mon. Feb. 5 
Thur. Feb. 8 
Mon. Feb. 12 
Thur. Feb. 15
Psychological Development of Sexual Systems 
Taking Care of and Understanding Your Sexual 
Systems
What Happens During Sex?
Birth Control, Pregnancy and Abortion 
Sexual Health 
Alternate Life Styles
New Issues: Test Tube Babies, Cloning, etc.

---------------------------------------------------

January 23, 1979TART AN-page 7
Perseverance Drops Attrition RateStudents'
by Jeanette Bryan
This year, more of the freshman class 
have plowed through the first year at CMU 
without leaving. At the Trustees meeting, 
the Board of Admissions reported that the 
attrition rate of the class of 82 was only 
9%, which corresponds to a big drop from 
the average of 15% in the past few years.
William Elliott, vice-provost for En
rollment Planning, explained that there has 
been no change in the admissions process 
and accounted the drop in the attrition 
rate solely to the fact that students are be
coming much more serious about educa
tion. He (eels that students now, especially 
those in private universities, are much more 
career-oriented and willing to be intensive 
with their studies.
Morewood
The attrition rates have been on a 
steady decrease since the demise of the 
draft in the early 1970s. There has also 
been quite a decline of social#pressure of 
perfidious youths that so immensely 
influenced college campuses in the 1960s.
The pendulum of typical student is 
swinging back from the revolutionary 
youth to the responsible, job-conscious 
young adult, recalled Elliott. He also 
commented that the average student prob
ably puts more time into his work than 
a student five years ago. The Admissions 
Board is planning to launch a survey among 
students to find the rate of increasing 
study time over7 the past few years. This 
certainly would make a difference in the 
amount of people wanting to transfer or
.ink Plans Fi
continued from page 1
the total occupancy of the two towers, 
but it does increase the number of bath
rooms.
Due to a shortage of funds, only a por
tion of this plan will be completed during 
this summer. According to Dillon, only 
$250,000 is available this year to renovate 
Morewood and he has no idea how far the 
funds will go. His primary concern is the 
connection of the two towers. After that 
is completed, priority will go to construc 
tion of new bathrooms.
Other work to be done this summer in 
eludes new electrical systems in rooms that 
will not be affected by the renovations and 
new windows throughout the building. 
Funds for this work are coming from a 
grant the University received from the 
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban 
Development (HUD). The HUD funds are 
from a program that makes grants to reno
vations that will reduce the energy con
sumption of buildings. The new electrical 
work will include the installation of florescent lighting in all rooms of Morewood 
Gardens.
Dillon estimates that it will take be
tween two and three million dollars to 
completely renovate all of Morewood. Due 
to the limited budget, he estimates that it
THISTLE Gets' 
New Editors: 
Sells '78 Book
Saul Carliner and Jon Hayden have been 
elected as co-Editors-in-Chief of THISTLE. 
Till their election, Carliner and Hayden had 
run the yearbook as heads of a Senate 
Committee to reorganize the THISTLE. 
Carliner has served as Managing Editor 
of the TARTAN and Hayden as Photogra
phy Editor of the THISTLE. Ken West, 
Business Manager; Barbra Reiser^ Layout 
Editor; and Pete Wilcox, Copy Editor, 
have been elected to fill other vacant 
editorial positions.
Both Carliner and Hayden promise a lar
ger yearbook this year, visually more 
attractive and with lots of color. As Car
liner terms it, a cleaner, fresher look.
Last years edition of the THISTLE will 
be on sale tomorrow. Thursday and Friday, 
in the Baker Hall lobby, at a cost of $1^.50 
per copy.
Seniors who didnt get their portraits tak
en for this years issue will be able to do so 
late in February. Further information will 
be. provided when arrangements are final
ized .
will take at least five years before all of the 
work is done. Along with the shortage of 
funds, Dillon explained that by spreading 
the project out over several years, all of 
the work scheduled for each year has a 
better chance of being done on schedule. 
We just cant risk not having it ready in 
September Dillon said.
The schedule for the next several years 
has C Tower being connected with D
drop out of school.
With the economic state and a tuition 
increase, more people are financially con
scious. A result may be that economically 
aware individuals are using their money 
wisely. An investment in die mind is hardly 
a wasteful ordeal, especially when one con
siders the quality of the school.
Elliott made no further comments but 
surmised that the answer lies within stu
dents change of attitude. The admission 
process, financial aid opportunities, and the 
tutoring available have not opened any new 
doorways this year or in previous years, so 
the change must be occurring among the 
new student body. A few students were 
asked to comment on why they feel it is 
important to receive a college education.
nalized
Tower in 1980, with all of the finishing 
work to the rooms to be completed by 
1981. Then, depending upon available 
funds, all of the bathrooms will be re
placed during 1981 and 1982. Other work 
to be done includes a completely new 
heating system throughout Morewood, 
probably in 1981. Finally the complete 
elevator system is to be replaced at a cost 
of over $1 million.
Here are some responses:
Ken Rapp: I feel I am getting a useful 
education as long as I am putting my share 
into it. The school cant teach you if you 
dont do your part.
Jesica Levine: As a woman in todays 
society, I feel it is very important for me to 
achieve a standard of excellence in my 
chosen profession, design.
Jenny Thom: With a college education 
I will be able to fulfill my ambitions for 
the future to the fullest extent.
Janet Eberly: It will allow me to gain 
experience fo living in todays world while 
teaching me academic material.
Joann Yokel: It is insurance for a good 
future job and an experience that makes 
life fuller.
Paul Mendler: I think its the only way 
I would be able to get a good job.
Bonnie Janowski: I want to expand 
my knowledge to enable me to get a good 
job in the future.
Name withheld upon request: To avoid 
having to take a non-fulfilling menial job 
only because you dont have the educa
tion  to acquire a job you know you 
would be happier with. Also to develop 
your potential so that you can personally 
feel that you have made the most of your 
life.
The blueprints show whtri each floor of A & B Towers in Morewood would share a common lounge. They also show tenetive room assignments.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8-TARTAN-January 23, 1979 /
f
President s pises'
The Need for Cultural Exchange
by John Tumazos
The racial controversy that has surfaced 
in the past weeks has been quite disturb
ing. The fact that the controversy was 
sparked by friction in Student Senate over 
the Black Awareness Week "budget concerns 
me very much.
A brief review of the specific incidents 
which transpired in Senate is enlighten
ing. The black students presented an ex
cellent cultural program that included 
lectures by Mark Lane and Dick Gregory 
and performances by the Pitt Jazz Ensem
ble, the Ozanam Strings, the Kintu Reper
tory Theater, and an Art Show. Even 
though the program also included a dinner 
/disco and fashion show, ticket sales and 
not a Senate subsidy were planned to 
support these social and not cultural 
events. The Black Awareness Week 
activities involved a $3700 outlay that the 
entire campus community can enjoy.
However, the black students also pre
sented a concert budget which was not well 
received. It required at least a $6500 sub
sidy and included several items-chauffei'r 
driven limousine service, vegetarian food, 
and liquor for the performerswhich 
upset several senators. The black students 
hadnt consulted Ann Witchner, the Dir
ector of Student Activities, or the Act
ivities Board for advice. The concert bud
get was defeated in the Senate Finance 
Committee.
In addition, several white senators asked 
very indiscreet questions. Can black 
music, jazz, be considered classical? 
Why not have a lecture to discuss Who 
Shot Kennedy instead of Who Shot 
Martin Luther King? The black students 
became understandably upset.
Several problems can be identified. 
First, both white and black students must 
work together to plan Black Awareness 
Week. Second, both white and black 
students should participate in the activities. 
These themes of participation and 
cooperation should be viewed in a very 
broad context. Third, many white students 
feel that they dont benefit from and 
consequently object to events that are 
exclusively black. Why not have an Israeli, 
Indian, or Italian Week? Indeed, blacks 
arent the only group to suffer 
discrimination or have a unique culture.
One possible alternative is to have an 
intercultural program in conjuction with 
Black Awareness Week. An intercultural 
event would draw white and black students 
together. It would create more interest on 
campus.
An intercultural theme of discrimina
tion and its effects on blacks, Jews, ethnic 
minorities, and foreign students might be 
appropriate, I dont want to de-emphasize the problems of blacks nor eliminate 
any of Black Awareness Weeks excellent 
events. A month or some period longer
PRATT ft WHTNEY 
AIRCRAFT GROUP
A division ofUNITED TECHNOLOGIES 
will be
CAMPUS
February 7
to interview candidates for attractive opportunities 
in HIGH TECHNOLOGY
Consult your Placement Office 
for degree and field of study 
requirements
An Equal Opportunity Employer
than a week may be an appropriate time 
frame for this event.
An intercultural event could draw 
upon many campus resources. Food 
Service offers occasional international 
events. We already have a South Asian 
student association and an Israeli group. 
AIESEC, which sponsors international 
student exchange, could participate. Club 
Francophone and the other constituent 
cultures of the Department of Modern 
Languages offer resident cultural interests. 
The Pittsburgh area is a rich source full of 
active ethnic groups.
Our imaginations are the only con
straints on the programming alterna
tives available. We could bring in the 
Duquesne Tambouritzans. With Food 
Services cooperation, we could feature 
a particular nationalitys foods at dinner 
one night and have that nationalitys 
folk performance that same night. A 
dinner of stuffed grape leaves, cheese pies, 
spinach pies, baklava, and other delicacies 
followed by Greek folk dancing could be a 
lot of fun. These intercultural activities 
could resemble a folk festival if that is 
what we want.
President Cyert feels that an intercul
tural program would be good for the Uni
versity and has promised some University 
support.
Clearly this sort of effort is no panacea, 
but its one way to get a big chunk of the 
campus working together. Its a step in the 
right direction.
There will a meeting in Skibo Room 11 
this coming Wednesday at 7 P.M. to dis
cuss these ideas. Things are still in the 
planning stage. If you are concerned about 
discrimination, interested in representing 
your own eithnic group, curious, or simply 
want to have fun, please attend.
"Green" Grass
An ingenious in-dorm marijuana growing 
scheme was foiled by Texas Tech police 
when they discovered a closet in an un
occupied room was being used as a hot
house. Several hundred pounds of soil 
covered the floor of the closet, 
and grow lights and a humidification 
system had been installed. The patch 
was discovered when someone noticed light 
coming through the keyhole of the locked 
room.
Loose Change
Meter Beaters is a new project of the U. 
of Maryland Commuters Association. 
Members roam campus area parking lots 
and when they spot a car bearing the 
Commuters Association sticker by an 
expired parking meter, they drop in a 
nickel. They also leave a card on the 
windshield explaining the program and 
asking for donations.
Coronor's Report Mishandled
UNITEDTECHNOLOGIES
by Andrew L. Ragan
According to Dean of Student Affairs 
Earle Swank, the Allegheny County Coro
ners office did not contact the parents of 
the late Andrew Finnerty about the actual 
causes of the CMU students death until' 
Friday, January 19five days after the 
body was discovered. The official report 
reached the deceased students parents 
only after a number of requests from 
Swank, and after other reports had already 
emerged in newspapers in the Tri-State 
area.
The Dean had resolved not to release 
any official information about the tragedy 
to the CMU campus community until af
ter a statement had been received by the 
parents. His intentions, however, were 
undermined when the coroners office 
stalled in notifying the parents while al
legedly releasing information to newspa
pers and news stations.
On the day of Finnertys funeral, a 
small town newspaper in Ohio came out 
with what Swank described as basically 
the coroners report. Swank relayed the 
information himself to the parents at the 
funeral, but maintained,Thats not the 
way they should have heard. Swank 
based his account on a verbal statement 
he received from the coroners office. 
Other media also released the same in
formation before Friday.
The TARTAN last week reported that 
the autopsy was scheduled for Monday, 
January 29. The coroners statement was
then to have been made public Tuesday 
or Wednesday. Many students on this 
campus were consternated by the initial 
TARTAN statement that said officials 
believed that the death was a result of 
natural causes. This confusion arose 
especially after people had already heard 
(from other media) about other factors 
surrounding the case and the official 
coroners report that concluded Andrew 
Finnerty died of an accidental inhalation 
of freon. The TARTAN, however, came 
on the scene at a time when security could 
not release any details of the incident. With 
a press deadline set for Sunday evening, the 
paper could only print what information 
the officials volunteered.
Enrollment. .
continued from page 1
not aware that they could attend classes 
before they enrolled on enrollment day.
The calendar is a compromise, con
cluded Schatz. This academic year will have 
148 class days with 78 days in the Spring, 
due to the fact that the first day of classes 
coincides with enrollment. Schatz believes 
that this schedule approaches the admini
strations ideal 75 days per semester split. 
He encourages student feedback on the 
matter, but adds, its impossible to accom
modate all views in one calendar. One 
proposed change is the petition by the SDC 
which would shorten the number of class 
days, in both semesters, slightly.
CALL
579-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A
photo by Skip Brazelton

---------------------------------------------------

hies at the
u^e byEllio
WHOISIT: Lester Drabkin 
GRADUATED: 1939 
MAJOR: Printing Management 
TQPA: 3.0
CURRENTLY: President, Columbia Print
ing Co.
As May approaches, seniors become 
itchy, and choruses of T cant wait to get 
out of this nuthatch! become more fre
quent. In the Spring semester of 1939 
there was at least one senior walking 
around Carnegie Tech who wasnt waiting 
for the end with such desire to get out of 
here. That unhappy Techie was Lester 
Drabkin, and Lester wasnt at all happy 
about the impending end of his experiences 
here. Why was he so blue? Because he real
ly didnt want to go  for Lester Drabkin, 
the end of his education at Tech was the 
end of a very satisfying era for him.
Now dont get the impression from this 
that he wasnt looking forward to his 
career  he was  the career he had chosen 
was very enjoyable, and there was a posi
tion waiting for him back home in Con
necticut at his familys business, the 
Columbia Printing Co. Lester has been 
with Columbia since his graduation, and 
is very pleased with the business, and his 
career in printing. Mr. Drabkin talks 
easily of his years at Tech, as if it were 
four, rather than forty years since his de
parture. Just what was it which made 
him so satisfied with his choice of schools?
The atmosphere. Like several other 
graduates I have spoken to, Mr. Drabkin 
remembers Carnegie Tech as a very pro
fessional school, yet a small enough one 
to maintain a friendly atmosphere. When 
walking across the cut there were smiles 
on the many faces one recognized in the 
small student body. Not only was there 
this combination of friendliness with 
professionalism, but within the Printing 
Management microcosm (we discussed frag
mentation of the schools within the Uni
versity and I found that in his time, the 
schools retained autonomy without sacri
ficing civility between departments  Mr. 
Drabkin was surprised to learn of the in
tense rivalry between the schools today) 
there was, as he described it, an esprit de 
corps, which kept the students together 
and the staff and students close. This, 
happily, still exists in many of the de
partments today, and it is in this that the 
hope of reuniting the university lies.
While here, Mr. Drabkin was a member 
of the TARTAN staff, and in his senior 
served as the managing editor  evidence 
of his interest as well as his talents in this 
field.
When asked what it was at Tech which 
most contributed to his success, Mr. Drab
kin responded that it was the atmosphere, 
as mentioned above, a supportive faculty, 
and the great program which Carnegie 
Tech provided. I asked if Tech was his 
first choice. Yes, it was, and he never 
regretted the choice, and there is no 
other school in his estimation which 
could have provided such a well-rounded, 
well-designed curriculum for someone 
with his interests. The only lack he saw in 
the program was some kind of human re
lations training or sales-oriented classes. 
The omission was filled for Mr. Drabkin 
by taking the Dale Carnegie course, and he 
had praise for that program, and thought
that something of an updated version of 
it might be advisable for the Printing 
Management as well as all of the business 
management programs.
The program here was particularly good 
in the specific mechanics of his trade  
there was a knowledgable staff, and a wellplanned curriculum of technically oriented 
printing classes which when mixed with the 
excellent Carnegie Tech management train
ing made it the best program he could 
imagine.
The Last Craft School
by Matt Sweigart
There is a program now in GSIA/AMS 
called Graphic Communications Manage
ment (GCM). The program takes a busi
ness/technically minded approach to the 
graphic communications field (i.e. comput
er graphics and communication, as well 
as graphics involved in inter-office pulications printing), but it did not always 
do so. Back in the 1950s there was a 
precursor of GCM called the School of 
Printing Management.
Politically, the school was an entity 
unto itself; a college in its own right as 
CIT, Fine Arts and GSIA. The thrust of 
the schools curriculum was the teaching of 
a state of the art technique based upon 
machine operation. Students in the pro
gram, had labs training them, in the use 
of monotype, linatype and other machines 
of the industry. Complimenting this, was
As far as other activities while here, Mr. 
Drabkin was a member of the Beta Sigma 
Rho (now Pi Lambda Phi) fraternity, and 
this, coupled with academic pursuits and 
the TARTAN work, filled most of his time. 
Like so many other alumni, Mr. Drabkin 
had as a hobby the theatre, and while he 
didnt mention that he had performed in 
any Tech productions, one could almost 
always find him in the audience at any per
formance, and he was a regular member of 
the crowds who attended the performances 
at the now-razed Nixon theatre in down
town Pittsburgh. The legitimate theatre 
has always held a fascination for Mr. Drab
kin.
Mr. Drabkin has returned to the campus 
only once that he mentioned since his grad
uation, a trip for his son, who is consider
ing CMU. He said that it looked pretty 
much as it did when he went here, though 
a bit older.
By way of advice, Mr. Drabkin had this 
to say. An education should not be limited 
to the field in which one expects to work. 
Bear in mind your career expectations, 
of course, but try to broaden your base 
with a wide range of studies, and try to 
get as much experience as possible in 
inter-personal relationships. Mr. Drabkin 
stressed this last. While there is not all 
that much one can do academically in this 
way, one should get as much experience 
as possible in dealing with clients or 
others in a professional, yet a human man
ner.
His interest in human relations came across the five-hundred miles of phone lines 
which separated us. His manner was exact
ly what he feels we should all cultivate, 
professional friendliness, but not slickness 
One should really like those with whom 
he deals, not treat them with minimal 
civility or cold business-like tones. Neither 
of these were evident in the conversation 
we had. I can think of no better way to 
show the success of a man or a university 
than to look at the final result of their 
interaction. Obviously, Lester Drabkin 
and Carnegie Tech - and in particular the 
Printing Management major  were both 
successful.
a battery of management courses de
signed specifically to teach printing man
agement. Graduates of the program were 
well prepared to become independent 
printers or executives in larger firms.
The program was popular in the in
dustry, attended by people that are leaders 
today, said Edward L. Ned Evans, 
dirctor of GCM and an alumnus of the 
School of Printing Management. Mr. 
Evans was Vice-President of Sales and 
Market Planning for Miller Printing Ma
chinery Co. until he bacame GCM direc
tor in January of 1977. The program has 
undergone many changes since his under
graduate days and those changes are an 
interesting slice of this univeristys history.
The School of Printing Management was 
one of the last craft colleges on campus; 
not really a trade school, but trade school 
oriented. Carnegie Tech at one time had 
many more such craft colleges. Each one 
was phased out as the institution began to 
take a more foreward looking position; 
craft and state of the art course offerings 
could only train students to cope with 
present problems, not give them an eye 
towards the future developments. Print
ing Management was no exception. Perhaps 
it survived as long as it did on the basis 
of its popularity.
In 1960, however, doubt was thrown 
on that popularity. The School, located on 
the first floor of Baker Hall (where the 
typographic/photographic labs and design 
studios are now), decided it was time to 
expand to a building of its own. The 
building was planned for the sight where 
Scaife Hall now stands, and the industry 
was petitioned for funds. The drive, how
ever, couldnt drum up the monetary 
support necessary, said Mr. Evans. As 
a consequence, the fate of the school was 
called into question.
It was decided that the school should be 
moved politically from being its own boss; 
to being the Graphic Arts Management op
tion in GSIA/AMS. Emphasis was shifted 
into business. The students were now, of 
course, business majors. In addition to the 
business core, they pursued the option of 
learning the theory, techniques and es
thetics of the graphic arts field. Graduates 
of the option would be prepared to help
dictate and guide the progress of graphics.
For members of this university com
munity technological advances were in the 
foreseeable future. The switch was made 
with this advance in mind. Industry, how
ever, did not see where the program was 
going. The old school was gone; the name 
changed. The new Graphic Arts option was 
now- a business program also, and most 
companies were not looking for business 
experts, but rather machinists. The pro
gram floundered.
Technological change, however, was be
coming more immenent. Two areas of sci
entific research (both active here) were 
beginning to revolutionize methods of 
printing: computer science and photo
polymer chemistry. It may be mentioned 
here that printing is prevalent in almost 
every business; interoffice communica
tions, publicity, book binding, newspapers, 
etc...Computers are by far becoming the 
most efficient means of printing as exem
plified by the XEROX 9700, which 
through lasar reproduction can print one 
page every Vi second. It also has a memory 
for over 200 different typefonts. And in 
chemistry a polymer has been developed 
for use in making stereotype places, replac
ing the old hot metal process for large 
printing presses. These developments are 
having far reaching effects all over indus
try, and only now is it becoming eivident 
that qualified managers will be needed to 
help implement change. Thats where 
GCM comes in.
In January of 1977, the Graphic Arts 
option was changed to be GCM. Of the 
change, Doug Sounder, Administrative 
Assistant to the General Manager of Pio
neer Business Forms said in a memo to 
Mr. Evans: I was in the first Graphic 
Arts Management class, graduating in 
1964, and am pleased to see that the new 
curriculum follows the direction estab
lished thenbut with a new measure of 
enthusiasm and direction.
GCM has a wide curriculum, taking 
advantage of all the univeristys resources. 
There are technical courses and labs in 
CIT, business courses in GSIA, design 
courses in the College of Fine Arts, close 
association with Graphic Arts Techinical 
Foundation (located on Forbes Avenue' 
in the form of research assistantships, and 
a program through which students are 
able to get summer jobs working in theii 
chosen field.
That this program is effective is made 
evident in a letter to Mr. Evans frorr 
J.E. Treadway, Vice President, Director, 
Human Resources for R.R. Donnelley & 
Sons Company, the nations largest printer 
next to the government: Your school 
has identified and is responding to a need 
we urgently feel...i.e. the need for indivi
duals who can effectively manage the 
dramatic technological changes occuring 
in our business.
Printing has come a long way since 
1960. The changes made then in this 
universitys approach are only now bearing 
fruit. The industry is bound to go still 
further too. We will begin to see more and 
more of this as time passes. And you can 
be sure, GCM alumnisome of your friends 
perhaps-will be closely involved with the 
change.
Class Cloned
A classful of clones greeted a professor 
at Southern Illinois U. on Halloween. One 
student had silk-screened 250 masks bear
ing a photo of the professors face and 
passed them out to the class

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-TARTAN-January 23, 1979
At Scott we believe that the best training 
we can give you is experience in putting your 
ideas to work Since we know that personal 
growth is your goal, achievement ot that goal is 
realized through doing Experience comes from 
doingputting your ideas to work, enjoying respon 
stbtlity and accepting accountability
Each year, as determined, committed college 
grads cxn us they bring new talents wrth them We 
put these talents to the test immediately and willingly 
accept fieii challenges
Because we recognize individual differences 
Our approach IS to build Oh your existing skillsto 
eatble you to start doing
When does the training stop' It never does 
Scott Paper Company is an equal opportunity 
eroptnye? m/t
Contact yuur piaCPi>M1t ottice for tnfor in.tti(m
Hugh Hefner
Still Boring After All These YearsSeven Springs Expands
Editors Note: The TARTAN would like 
to thank Mike Royko and his staff for 
allowing us to reprint his column from 
January 1, 1979. Royko is a syndicated 
national columnist, based in Chicago. We 
thought that this piece would interest CMU 
readers.
A representative of the Playboy com
pany called a few weeks ago to offer me 
an opportunity to interview Hugh Hefner 
on the occasion of his magazines 25th 
anniversary.
1 didnt hesitate. No, I said.
Why not? asked the Playboy repre
sentative.
To be honest, hes dull and I hate to 
interview dull people.
Apparently Im one of the few report
ers in America to say no, since Im now 
reading Hefner interviews everywhere.
And what Im reading confirms my 
judgement. He is dull. Hes as dull as he 
was 10 years ago and 20 years ago. Hes 
also still something of a fraud.
Most of the interviews consist of two 
themes, which are Hefners favorites: 
(1) How he started the sexual revolution 
and (2) the thousands of young women he 
has gone to bed with.
His pitch has been that until he came 
along with his magazine, American males 
were sexually inhibited, fearful, puritan
ical.
First of all, American males always liked 
the idea of hopping into bed with females. 
Centuries before Hefners Adams apple 
first jiggled excitedly, sex was a muchsought-after activity to men.
The big problem was women. Regard
less of what kind of interesting suggestions 
a young man made, a young woman usual
ly responded, first we get married.
That is what inhibited men. And what 
inhibited the women was the prospect of 
having an offspring with nobody around 
for it to call daddy.
Its true that this attitude has changed 
during Hefners time. But it w'asnt his 
magazine and his incomprehensible philo
sophical babbling that changed it.
It was something now known as The 
Pill. Once the threat of pregnancy was 
removed, so were inhibitions, and so were 
the ladys garments.
Hefners other conceit is that he is one 
ot the worlds great playboys. In most of 
the current interviews, he talks about the 
thousands of young women he has frol
icked with. The interviewers report that he 
keeps a few dozen of them around his Cali
fornia mansion, on call for when his 
52-year-old glands revive.
I dont question Hefners claims as to 
quantity. I merely sneer at it.
The fact is, any reasonably healthy 
multimillionaire could, if he chose, do 
what Hefner has done.
But that doesnt make Hefner a genuine 
playboy. Not by the high standards set by 
the truly great playboys who gave the word 
its meaning.
A truly great playboy did not lust after 
California junior-college dropouts, or pro
mote Bunnies from waiting on tables to 
bouncing on the water bed.
Take Aly Khan. Now there was a play
boy. Polo ponies. Sports car races. And 
when he was seen with a woman, which 
was often, she was invariably one of the 
worlds most beautiful and famous 
actresses.
As a playboy, Hefner is not even a dis
tant relative of Aly Khan. Hefner is akin to 
the lecherous middle-level corporate execu
tive who stalks the secretarial pool.
Or take Aristotle Onassis, who ran an 
empire from a yacht and owned his own 
island. As homely as he was, Onassis once 
had as his mistress the fiery Maria Callas,
the worlds most renowned opera star. And 
later he topped himself by winning the 
haughty Jackie, the worlds most famous 
woman.
But try to name even one of Hefners 
thousand of easy triumphs. Well, we can 
probably name one: Barbi Benton, a medi
ocre country-Western singer with a nose 
job. The rest are Barbi Benton clones.
Hefners style is to jiggle pinball ma
chines in his rec room, drink a case of Pepsi 
a day, and play backgammon with those 
of his companions intelligent enough to 
understand the game.
For years, he never came out of his 
Chicago mansion, just as he now stays close 
to his California estate. People wondered 
why. It gave him an aura of mystery.
Anyway, happy anniversary, Hef. And 
since its a big occasion for you, why not 
do something really dashing? Put aside 
your Pepsi. Live it up. Have a prune juice.
Skiers will find shorter lift lines and ac
cess to more skiable area this season at 
Western Pennsylvanias Seven Springs 
Mountain Resort, Champion, PA, through 
the addition of an overhead triple chairlift 
that operates at a 3,600-skier-per-hour up
hill capacity.
According to Jim McClure, Seven 
Springs vice president and general manager, 
the new triple chairlift gives the resort a to
tal lift capacity of 15,000-skiers-per-hour. 
While offering skiers more of a variety 
of slopes and trails, the triple chairlift opera
tion increases our total uphill lift capability 
by 30 percent.
This new lift is only part of an exten
sive expansion program at even Springs, 
said McClure. Weve enlarged the Ski 
Lodge into a 43,000-square-foot modern 
ski structure. For the coming season, we 
will provide skiing enthusiasts with the best 
possible lift facilities, instruction, eating 
and sleeping accommodations.
Seven Springs Mountain Resort is locat
ed 10 miles off the Pennsylvania Turnpikes 
Donegal Exit No. 9, and 12 miles off Som
erset Exit No. 10.
The most noticeable physical improve
ment at Seven Springs this season is the 
newly remodeled (and partially rebuilt) 
Ski Lodge. The old 6,000-square-foot lodge 
has been completely renovated into a con
temporary ski complex that covers 43,000 
square feet at the base of the slopes. 
Weve beefed up the area of the lodge sev
en times its previous size to accommodate 
more people and activities, said McClure. 
Now the Ski Lodge includes a new cafe
teria and lounge, a larger ski rental shop; an 
increased ski locker area, ski school head
quarters and ski patrol headquarters.
The resorts snowmaking system is the 
largest operation in the Eastern United 
States. states McClure. The systems 280 
towers are capable of a 5,000-gallon-perminute capacity on all of the resorts major 
slopes.
Seven Springs skiers also will be greeted 
at the resort with a 20 percent larger park
ing area.
Day sessions which operate from 9 AM 
to 4:30 PM are $13 for adults and $8 for 
children under 12 on weekends and holi
days. During the week, the rates are $10 for 
adults and $8 for children.
Night skiing, which runs from 4:30 to 11 
PM seven days a week, is $8 for adults and 
$7 for children.
The resort also offers a variety of in
door activities, such as tennis, racquetball, 
bowling, and nightly entertainment, said 
McClure.
Seven Springs Mountain Resort offers 12 
ski slopes and seven trails including five 
rated easier, 11 rated more difficult, 
and three rated most difficult. The most 
testing of the slopes is the Great North 
Face which runs for over 4,000 feet (verti
cal drop 927 feet). A downhill and slalom 
ski racing area, complete with automatic 
timing devices and photo-electric finish in
strumentation, is also available.
Six double chairlifts, two triple chair
lifts, one poma lift and two rope tows give 
Seven Springs its 15,000-skier-per-hour lift 
capacity. The Seven Springs Ski School, 
directed by Lars Skylling, features 50 in
structors providing both group and indiv
idual lessons.

---------------------------------------------------

January 23, 1979-TARTAN- page 11
Madison Ave's Best
by Sherry
The following essential information, 
from recent copies of Advertising Age, is 
presented as a service to those who dont 
read this trade magazine of the ad indus
try. Be an uninformed consumer no longer ; 
read on.
The food of the gods is now available in 
cans. Pulque Magueyin, made from 
mango, guava, prickly pear, and maguey, is 
selling well in California health stores and 
may eventually be available in the rest of 
the country. Sap from the maguey plant, 
which has been thriving in the Central Pla
teau for over 2000 years, was used by the 
Aztecs as a religious ceremonial wine. The 
plant fiber is used today to make clothing 
and rope. Surprisingly, maguey sap earned 
the title food of the gods before Madi
son Avenue even existed.
Ambiance, the year-old womens maga
zine which competes with Vogue for read
ers and ad dollars, is for sale. Talk to Mi
chael J. Butler, of CBS Publications, if you 
think you have the bucks and want to give 
it a go.
Next month youll be able to see a porn 
film produced by a major film company. 
Titled Hard Core by Warner Bros, (obvious
ly in a fit of extreme creativity), the film 
about a fathers search for his daughter in 
the porno movie industryhas been sold to
Columbia and may open under a different 
name. It stars George C. Scott and will 
probably outstrip Lolita (pardon the pun) 
as the favorite film of amateur psycholo
gists.
Wendys hot and juicy burgers are 
soon going to be touted as nutritional, too. 
Now third in fast food sales, Wendys is 
eager to push McDonalds out of its num
ber one spot.
Siegel
At least three different early in-home 
pregnancy testing kits are now on the 
market. If you cant decide which one to 
buy, you might want to stay away from 
Answer, made by Carter-Wallace. CarterWallace also manufactures hospital testing 
equipment, and ads for their Diagnostic 
Testing subsidiary urge consumers to leave
pregnancy testing to professionals. Doesnt 
inspire too much confidence in Answer, 
does it?
Listen in March and April for The Bee 
Gees Story, six one-hour specials produced
by BBC and sold to 275 radio stations.
At least four major bra manufacturers 
Lily of France, Warners, Formfit Rogers, 
and Olgaintend to introduce support bras 
to their current lines within the next year 
People in the industry also call them ac
tive sports bras and running bras (re
member when only Playtex made a living 
bra, and all it did was breathe?)and jugstraps when they think no ones listening. 
Lily of Frances ads, probably the boldest 
of the bunch, will proclaim their bra to be 
the first athletic supporter for women.
Want to check out the eight models who 
ended up as finalists in the Miss Black Vel
vet contest? Youll find the girls in Janu
ary magazine ads .wearing black velvet 
gowns and possibly caressing bottles of 
whiskey.
Charles of the Ritz, recently criticized 
by some for introducing Yves Saint Lau
rents Opium scent, will launch its Moist 
Environment Treatment group of creams, 
lotions, and potions with nudie ads in Feb
ruary issues of Cosmopolitan, Vogue, Gla
mour, etc. Bewaremoist environments 
have been known to breed mold and mil
dew.AYH Offers Trips
Discover a quiet moutain stream, un
ravel the mysteries of an ancient abbey, 
become a part of cosmopolitan Paris or 
London. American Youth Hostels (AYH), 
specialists in low-cost travel for over 45 
years, offers some creative ways to see 
the world.
Most of the Virginia based organiza
tionss 70 trips are designed for those who 
want to see the world under their own 
steam  by bicycle, foot or canoe. Vary
ing from six to 44 days, from bicycling 
in Hawaii to backpacking in the Canadian 
Rockies to sightseeing in Moscow, the trips 
share one common element: hosteling.
Hosteling is high adventure on a low 
budget. It is living out of backpacks and 
saddlebags and staying in hostels, low-cost 
overnight travel accommodations. It is for 
the young at heart, and not, as the name 
implies, for only the young in age. AYH 
offers 25 trips for adults (21 years and 
over), both in the United States and 
abroad.
Groups are composed of seven to nine 
members and a trained AYH leader. AYH 
groups follow definite itineraries, yet are 
free to make group decisions along the 
way. Abroad, groups stay primarily in 
youth hostels. In the United States and 
Canada, AYH groups stay both in hostels 
and at campgrounds.
Interested in earning three college cred
its and having fun at the same time? A 
Whale of a Trip is the first of a new kind 
of study/travel trip AYH is offering. Spend 
eight days in April aboard a modern dieselpowered ship sailing off the coast of south
ern California, studying the magnificent 
Grey Whale.
The American Youth Hostels Join the 
Highroad to Adventure brochure is avail
able free. Call toll free: (800) 336-6019, 
or write:
American Youth Hostels 
Travel Department 
Box T
Delaplane, Virginia 22025
Gays Get Dates
Gays will be included for the first time 
this year in the Ohio State U. student 
government computer date match. The 
highly successful event normally draws 
several thousand student participants, but 
until this year it was strictly for hetero
sexuals.
Tartan Cartoon Favorites
by S.J. Shlabotnikwitz
The Features Staff of the TARTAN 
took a random student poll this week and 
asked the question, Who was your favor
ite cartoon character when vou were voune 
and why? Here are some of the responses: 
Some characters were liked just because 
they were cool. Among these were 
BUGS BUNNY and MIGHTY MOUSE. In 
fact, a freshman Architect went on to say 
that MIGHTY MOUSES coolness stemmed 
from the fact that he was small, strong, 
and could fly like a mother.
Older Architects had a more profession
al view of characters: I liked SUPERMAN 
because I could examine the structure of 
the buildings as he leaped over them in a 
single bound. Indeed structure was impor
tant to all the architects questioned: I 
liked WONDER WOMAN because of her 
body.
A Psych major identified with FRED 
FLINTSTONE because he was so neuro
tic. And a senior Philosphy major admired 
NANCY for her logical decision making 
processes.
In other departments, sexual implica
tions played a part in cartoon preferences. 
FOGHORN LEGHORN was abhorred for 
his lack of machosity by a Junior Civil 
Engineering major. SLUGGOs biceps in
terested a sophomore Voice major. BAM 
BAMs strength turned on a Residence Life 
director. The most blatant example was a 
freshman Psych majors preference for
and MJPTME
FRITZ THE CAT who brought about 
wild fantasies at the mention of his name. 
POPEYE appealed to a sophomore 
Drama major because he takes spinach the 
way I take speed with the same effect.
A Senior AMS major at first thought of 
BULLWINKLE MOOSE because he was 
well hung but on second thought she 
identified with TENNESSEE TUXEDO be
cause were both frigid.'
THE PINK PANTHER was the favorite 
of a voice professor because he was mute. 
An Economics professor said that she 
was part of the LONE RANGER - TOM 
MIX cult who would sit in front of their 
radios and drink Kool-Aid straight.
Finally, it is the opinion of this staff 
that TWEETY BIRD is our all-time favorite 
because of his yellow color (which matches 
the journalism in this piece) in addition 
to having large feet (which can easily be 
inserted into ones mouth).
MAKE 
IT HAPPEN
SPRING CARNIVAL NEEDS PEOPLE TO ORGANIZE:
FINANCE
ENTRANCEWAY
FIREWORKSENTERTAINMENT
PUBLICITY 
ARTS & CRAFTS 
EVENTS
Interested? Come to the meeting Wednesday evening, January 
24, at 6:00 PM in Skibo Room 33. Need more details? See the 
article in this issue of the TARTAN.
SPRING
CARNIVAL 197

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-TARTAN-January 23, 1979
Bicker, Bellyache and Bandy with
BILL DILLON
CMU's Director of Auxiliary Services will be available to discuss Dormitory 
Safety  Parking Enforcement  Quality of Food  Laundry and Food Vending 
Machines  Telephones  The new dormitory  University/Frat. Relations  
CMU's Child Care Center  Post Office  Dormitory Lounge Improvements  
Maintenance Problems  Book Store Prices  Summer Plans  The selection of 
colors in dorm rooms  or anything else you wish to talk about.
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 31st 12 NOON 
WHERRETT ROOM
Sponsored by Campus Program Planning
Sleeping Habits Studied
The children were nestled all snug in their 
beds whiles visions of suger plums danced 
through their heads...
There is more to a childs sleep than 
sugar plums and Patricia Coble, R.N., 
assistant instructor of psychiatry at the 
University of Pittsburgh and project co
ordinator of Western Psychiatric Institute 
and Clinics (WPIC) Sleep Laboratory, 
is conducting a research project entitled 
EEG Sleep Studies in Normal Children. 
The aim of the study is to gather infor
mation on the sleep patterns of normal, 
healthy children which will be used to 
create a normative base for future inves
tigations of a variety of childhood dis
orders.
Children aged six to 17 who are not 
suffering from any physical or emotional 
illness are eligible and will be monitored 
as they sleep through the use of several
harmless electrodes placed about the 
face and head. Children will be studied 
for three consecutive nights in the WPIC 
Sleep Laboratory.
Those children who participate in the 
sleep study will receive a tee-shirt which 
they can wear to attest that they parti
cipated in this innovative, scientific study. 
Anyone having children who might be 
interested in this research effort can 
obtain further information by calling the 
Sleep Laboratory at 624-2246.
Western Psychiatric Institute and Clinic 
is a psychiatric specialty hospital of the 
University Health center of Pittsburgh 
and houses the Department of Psychiatry 
for the University of Pittsburgh School 
of Medicine. WPIC serves as a community 
mental health center for the areas of 
Oakland, Squirrel Hill, Shadyside, Hazel
wood-Greenfield and the Hill District.
Praise For Venereal Disease
(CPS)Students who have had a venereal 
disease may, at last, take comfort. One re
cent study, anyway, says students who 
have had infections seem to possess more 
social attributessuch as self-assurance, 
sensitivity, and practicalitythan those 
who have not.
Dr. William Yarber, associate professor 
of health at Purdue University, came to 
this conclusion after an analysis of students 
at seven colleges and universities in the 
east, west, and central parts of the U.S. 
The purpose of the study, co-directed by 
Ohio State University professor of health 
education Robert Kaplan, was to investigate 
the stereotype of VD victims being irre
sponsible social deviants.
The researchers administered personali
ty tests to equal numbers of hads arid hadnots, including as criteria all sexually 
transmissable diseases such as gonorrhea,
syphilis, herpes simplex genitalis, tricho
moniasis, nongonococcal urethritis and cy
tomegalovirus. Differences were apparent 
in only a few areas. The males who report
ed infections were more relaxed and asser
tive than those who had never been infect
ed.
Overall, Yarber reports, students in both 
groups were quite similar. They did not 
show differences in intelligence, moral 
standards, stability, or happiness. Yarber 
says his study runs contrary to previous 
studies in the area.
We found that those who had had in
fections at some time did not have any 
more or fewer psychological difficulties 
than those who never had an infection, he 
remarked. He did suggest that such differ
ences might be found in studies of the gen
eral population that lacks the homogeneity 
of the college population.
Af Great X..you don't get 
what you pay for
That's right. You get the haircut. 
But, we keep the hair. Unless, of 
course, you're stuffing pillows in 
your basement as a sideline. In 
which case, we'll put your shear
ings in a plain brown bag for you 
to take home.
Most guys and gals, however, are
mainly interested in the hair we 
leave uncut, because that's what 
says who they are.
At Great Ex we help get your 
head together. . .with your hair. 
No appointments needed either.
Just come in. .
smejiTionsPRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
HAIRCUTS
(Wash-Cut-Blow)
Mon.Tues.Wed. 10-7 
Thurs. Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 9-6
COLORING
237 ATWOOD STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 15213 
687-3500
UNISEX HAIR SALON
PERMANENTS
2500
No
Appointments

---------------------------------------------------

GOT YOURS?
Probably not.
Because the 1978-79 yearbook, the THISTLE, doesn't of
ficially go on sale until tomorrow. The THISTLE, full of the 
color and excitement of this year of campus renaissance: 
Homecoming, Leo Kottke, the Nobel Prize to Simon, the 
PAC playoff game. And what's left to come-Greek Sing, 
Spring Carnival, and Graduation. Plus all the events and 
trends that made this year what it was. And most importantly-the people. The dorm dwellers. The frat rats. The 
tough faculty. And even tougher administration. And the 
seniors.
However, the THISTLE will only be on sale tomorrow, 
Thursday and Friday, so don't delay.
I
Don't let this year slide away and become a fading 
memory in the back of your mind. Have a vivid reminder of 
it-in the yearbook.
On Sale: Wednesday through Friday
Baker Hall Lobby 
10 AM-4 PM
Or at Slcibo Information Desk. 
$12.50 per book

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14-TARTAN-January 23,1979
Guyana Cult Suicides Discussed...
BOSTON ,MA (CPS)In the wake of the 
Guyana tragedy, theres been much aca
demic pondering over how non-traditional 
religious cults come to gain so much 
power over their adfierents. Rev. Jim 
Jones, leader of the Peoples Temple cult, 
for example, widened his appeal by enlist
ing endorsementsand thus respectabili
tyfrom political figures like California 
Lt. Governor Melvyn Dymally and even 
Rosalyn Carter.
The process of gaining respectability 
was much on the minds of participants in a 
scientific symposium held here three weeks 
after the murder of Congressman Leo 
Ryan, four reporters, and 905 followers of 
the Peoples Temple. The reason was that 
the symposium was convened by the Rev. 
Sun Myung Moon, and the topic was so 
popular that the normally-placid scientific 
community around the conference became 
sharply divided.
Rev. Moonwhose Unification Church 
is perhaps the most powerful cult in the 
country at this momentpredicted that 
450 distinguished scientists, philosoph
ers, and theologiansincluding six Nobel 
laureateswould attend his Seventh Inter
national Conference on the Unity of the 
Sciences (ICUS).
He was not disappointed. But many 
conference participants, no doubt thinking 
about Guyana, felt compelled to explain 
why they were attending a cult confer
ence.
It will be the fourth one in which I have 
participated, said Dr. Eugene Wigner, con
ference chairman and a nobel laureate in 
physics. Dr. Wigner added he had heard ac
cusations against the Moon organization 
he is not a memberbut has never seen any 
proof of misconduct. He characterized 
ICUS as a very good conference.
Boston University professor Jean Merrit 
was less sanguine. How can they go along 
with being sponsored and catered to by a 
man who is being accused of everything 
from brainwashing to child abuse and poli
tical influence peddling? she asked.
It is my impression that this confer
ence emphasizes the conservative and even 
reactionary politics of Rev. Moons organi
zation, said Harvard professor and former 
presidential science advisor, Dr. George 
Kistiakowsky. It therefore appeals to con
servative members of the scientific com
munity.
Undoubtedly part of the appeal is that 
ICUS picks up the tab for participants and 
spouses. And if the lure of an expense-paid 
weekend in one of the posh hotels of Lon
don, New York, Boston or Tokyo is insuf
ficient, then there is the lure of fat consult
ing fees. Superstars are reportedly paid 
$3000 dollar honoraria for attending. This 
years ICUS costs and estimated $500,000.
Rev. Moon can afford it. He has U.S. 
holdings valued at more than $20 million 
and industrial holdings in South Korea 
worth another $15 million in annual sales. 
Some of Moons factories produce arma
ments. Last year he purchased controlling 
interest in the Diplomat National Bank, 
which has branches in twelve western 
countries. This year he entered the fishing 
industry, alarming Gulf of Mexico fisher
men with the possibility that his free labor 
force of premies could undercut the mar
ket.
Any detailed analysis of Rev. Moons 
wealth and power is hampered by the num
erous subsidiaries operating under the Un
ification Church aegis. The Freedom Lead
ership Foundation, for example, lobbies 
for U.S. military and economic aid to 
South Korea. He has a newspaper, the 
News World, in New York City. The nowdefunct American Youth for a Just Peace 
was a support group for Nixonian policies.
Perhaps it is best known for its advertise
ments declaring that God has chosen Mr. 
Nixon to be President and, therefore, only 
God has the authority to dismiss him.
ICUS, a project of his International Cul
tural Foundation, champions his attempt 
to become known in every corner of the 
world through the agency of eminent sci
entists and nobel laureates. Like the 
Church, these conduits are registered as 
non-profit educational organizations, with 
tax-exempt status.
ICUS does help. For example, the Uni
fication Church gets an odd boost from 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology pro
fessor Daniel Lerner, who attended the 
1977 ICUS. Responding to critics, Dr. Ler
ner asserted that accepting funds from Rev. 
Moon was no worse than taking grants 
from Carnegie, Ford or Rockefeller.
These foundations were set up by pi
rates trying to clean up their names, Dr. 
Lerner said. The only advantage they have 
over the Rev. Moon is that they are dead. I 
dont see that the Rev. Moon is any more 
satanical than they.
Andrew Carnegie, John Rockefeller and 
Henry Ford probably share many obsessive 
characteristics with Sun Myung Moon. But 
none of them, in their lifetimes, assumed 
the pure imperative of stamping out mor
al corruption, division within Christianity, 
and communism as the primary evil force 
in the world. Nor were they in daily 
communication with God. So how has a 
messianic leader, the object of several gov
ernment investigations, who critics claim 
brainwashes his 30,000 followers, man
aged to woo the academic community?
Aside from the financial prerequisites, 
ICUS is the only conference predicated on 
the idea of a unity of the sciences. Most 
intellectuals find the possibility of a univer
sal dialogue that cuts through both aca
demic and geographic provincialism tre
mendously exciting. A holistic conference, 
chaired by various nobel laureates, is a pro
found drawing card.
A statement by Dr. Seymour S. Kety, 
chief of the department of psychiatry at 
Massachusetts General Hospital, whose 
name was listed as an advisor to the fifth 
ICUS, illuminates the motivations of many 
participants. Kety agreed to be an advisor 
Because of my respect for John Eccles 
and others on the International and Ameri
can advisory board whom I know as out
standing scientists ... I was also motivated 
by the theme of the next conference: The 
Search for Absolute Values.
Some advisors were not fully apprised 
of Rev. Moons role in the conference.
Marshall McLuhan. a member of the 77 
ICUS advisory board, recalled that the 
Moon name had not surfaced in the initial 
invitations, so far as I can recall. In the 
light of the dubious Rev. Moons activities. 
I shall withdraw my endorsement.
But McLuhans act is still the exception 
rather than the rule. Most participants 
stress the value of the conference, and em
phasize that in now way are discussions 
limited by Rev. Moon theological or politi
cal beliefs. His only apparent benefit is 
publicity and intimacy with prominent in
tellectuals.
The latter, say critics, is the reason for 
ICUS. The presence of a distinguished 
group of academics, by inference, lends leg
itimacy to the sponsor.
The decisive reason academics should 
not attend, says Kai Nielsen, a University 
of Calgary philosopher, is very simply 
that by accepting such a sponsorship they 
lend a vicarious legitimacy to a mindless, 
through and through neanderthal religiosi
ty.
Irving Louis Horowitz, writing in the At
lantic Monthly on why he would not at
tend the 77 ICUS, noted that these were 
two ways to gain legitimacy; by earning it 
over a period of time, or buying it in a hur
ry*
//NOWTHIS i* AAV KlttP OP CULT/"
ces
And Capitalized Upon
(CPS)The only thing I can say is 
that as journalists, its our job to try to put 
out a story, Washington Post reporter 
Charles Krause told a recent National Press 
Club luncheon in Washington, D.C. The 
story" was a book called Guyana Massacre, 
which Berkley Publishing of New York 
assembled, typeset, printed and rushed into 
bookstores across the country all within 
two weeks of the tragic mass suicide in 
Jonestown Guyana. Krause, who witnessed 
the murder of Rep. Leo Ryan, has been 
criticized by his colleagues for being some
thing of a literary mercenary for seeing a 
book so quickly in the shock of Jones
town.
Yet Krause is hardly alone.
While Berkley was rushing 450,000 
copies of its books onto the stands, 
Bantam Books was printing 600,000 
copies of The Suicide Cult: The Inside
Story of the Peoples Temples Sect and 
the Massacre in Guyana. Cult was written 
by two San Fransisco Chronicle reporters 
who have, over the years, been covering 
the Peoples Temple and Rev. Jim Jones, 
its leader, from San Francisco. The Los 
Angeles Times Syndicate is selling a sixpart serial of the book to daily newspapers, 
while Universal Press Syndicate has al
ready sold the serialization of Guyanan 
Massacre to 35 papers.
Crown Publishing, moreover, plans to 
publish Ginerva, a fictional book about 
the Peoples Temple, in May, 1979.
But theres more: two Italian movie
makers had already started production on 
a movie about the mass suicide by the time 
the Berkley books rolled off the presses 
at 4:32 AM, Nov. 30.
The night before drummer Elvin Jones
had unveiled his new song, Guyana 
Elegy, at a night club in StoryTowne, 
N.Y. If the song is ever published and re
corded, Jones says he will contribute some 
of the royalties to the victims families.
About the only people not actively 
seeking publicity in the affair are those 
who work at General Foods, which makes 
KoolAid. The Soho Weekly News in New 
York reports the company is trying to take 
its products association with the mass 
suicide in stride. Rhoda Kaufman, General 
Foods assistant manager of public rela
tions, told the paper, 1 suppose in one 
sense its corporate bad luck. On the other 
hand, it would be improper to complain 
whether it was KoolAid or not ... It may 
turn out from all this it was not KoolAid. 
It was probably Flavor-Aide. Flavor-Aide 
is not made by General Foods.

---------------------------------------------------

Xy:y:<:
V.V.V.V.VAVA'W.V.V/'
^TTv.rrr?:
%
CF
tOhh e "..ii|jl
/<!
IUiL
c/bust....
Here's a list of themes for the first half of the semester, as 
well as the deadlines for leaving your typed copy or artwork at 
the TARTAN office. We'd like to see some "specials," too!
(deadline: January 23) 
(deadline: February 6)
January 30: Free for all 
February 13: Valentine's Day 
February 27: The Complete Starving Roommate Cheap Living 
Dorm Room Cookbook (deadline: February 20)
March 13: Sci Fi Ish (deadline: March 6)
March 27: Parodies of Great Literature (sonnets, limericks, and 
other masterpieces) (deadline: March 20)* / *. a.
ijlHiiiiiniUnim..H'HminuiiiHLlliimt)il>miunn innmimtlhtin till UtllUH ll m ^
JANUARY 23, 1979/VOLUME lll/ISSUE 16: 
VERY-SHORT-SO-PLEASE-WRITE ISSUE
>......................uaJJr
iU v'L
ADVERTISEMENT

---------------------------------------------------

CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A
Page 16-TARTAN-January 23, 1979
continued from page 1Coal Research Building Air Quality Poor
ment is absolutely aware the situation 
needs to be improved. With respect to 
the Coal Research area, Winsand feels the 
University has been slow to act because ex
tensive and permanent rennovations re
quire a fair-sized chunk of the colleges 
capital equipment budget. That chunk has 
yet to be allocated because the University 
is still unsure whether Coal Research is 
the permanent location of the printmaking 
operations. Nonetheless, they appear sat
isfied that delaying the space decisions 
does not overburden the faculty or stu
dents who must work in the building.
University Space Coordinator Doug 
Philp said it will be about one or two 
years before they are sure of printmakings permanent location. He ex
plained the desireability and economics 
of moving some of the administrative 
functions in Baker and Science Halls in
to Coal Research. Philps own feeling is 
that Coal Research is not a good long
term home for that portion of the Art 
Department.
Winsand relayed silkscreen professor 
Beckleys feeling that the installation of 
a new vent, along with changing the screen 
cleaning solvent from a toxic, leukemiacausing lacquer thinner to a water-based 
film, will improve the air 50%. This will 
result, said Winsand, in the danger being 
reduced significantly.
Due to the nature of the printmaking 
process, Winsand indicated that its basic
ally true that time spent in there cannot be 
reduced.In the final analysis, Winsand 
said,Coal Research is a good building, and 
added, if the space was enough and the air 
quality better, wed be happy there. Last 
year, Physical Plants estimation of the 
cost for permanent air quality 
improvements in Coal Research was 
$25,000. In the next 3 years, Winsand
plans to spend $179,000 for capital 
improvements.
This past year, CFAs capital equipment 
budget was principally used for rennovating Hewlett Gallery. On the Art Depart
ment priority list, this project is listed 
under the visibility category. Winsand 
said this project was very important but 
thinks the funds could have come from 
elsewhere.
Part 2 of this story will appear next week. 
It will deal with sculpture, ceramics, chem
istry, darkrooms, physical plant, and cig
arette smoke.
CALL 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
All-star lineup.
?TV SO
r New'1 Constant 
Memory
Feature
Slimline TI-50
-o wm n r*
 *1 mrr, 9*- 1 **an fi n
* - C D n Q.
* -HR VtS WF9 
WT MXSlimline T1-25
45628
Performance and price are the keys in choosing a calculator. 
One of these Texas Instruments slide-rules is right for you.
Andre wFeity,nFie
US uMMMfMiiKK. rgTSswSslup,
0 Wt to tanam* IkmpmM
Texas Instruments technologybringing affordable electronics to your fingertips.
shows you how to use the power of 
statistics, financial math and program
mability in analyzing relationships in 
data, verifying quality and perfor
mance, measuring change, forecast
ing trends and projecting returns...in 
short, how to make better decisions, 
today and tomorrow. Calculator and 
book combination, only $50.00*.
Slimline TI-50. A powerful, stylish slide-rule 
with new Constant Memory feature.
The pocket-portable Slimline TI-50 is 
todays most powerful liquid crystal 
display (LCD) slide-rule calculator. It 
has 60 functions including common 
and natural logarithms and six trigo
nometric operations that can be per
formed in three angular modes (de
grees. radians or grads).
Seven built-in statistical functions 
make it easy to boil down large 
amounts of data so you can perform 
accurate analyses and draw reliable 
conclusions.
Two constant memories retain their 
contents even when the calculator is 
turned off, so frequently used con
stants and other basic values are at 
your fingertips when you need them.
Two miniature batteries provide 
over 1000 hours of operation in normal 
use; Tl's APD automatic powerdown
Capability. Quality. Value. The right 
combination can help you make short 
work of problems in fields like math, 
engineering, science and business 
statistics and give you more time for 
other important things. Choose the Tl 
calculator thats right for you and get 
ahead of the game.
TI-55. Advanced slide-rule functions with 
statistics, programmability and valuable 
problem-solving applications book.
The versatile TI-55 calculating system 
is packed with the features and func
tions you need to handle almost any 
mathematical operation, from loga
rithms and trigonometry to advanced 
statistical problems. Thirty-two steps 
of programmability add new dimen
sions of accuracy, speed and ease to. 
performing repetitive calculations and 
what-if analyses. You just teach the 
TI-55 a series of operations and it per
forms those steps for you.
For more help in 
tive decisions, the 
TI-55 comes 
the Calculator. De
cision - Making 
Sourcebook, a $5.00 
value. The book, 140 
pages of easy-to 
understand, real 
life applications,
feature helps prevent accidental bat
tery drain by turning off the calculator 
after approximately 10 minutes of 
non-use. With imitation leather wallet, 
$40.00*.
Slimline TI-25. Slide-rule power at a small 
price.
Economy and value go hand-in-hand 
with the Slimline TI-25, a pocketportable LCD scientific calculator that 
has what it takes to handle advanced 
math. It provides the most-needed 
slide-rule functions. Trigonometry in 
degrees, radians or grads. Plus basic 
statistical power, too: Mean, Variance, 
Standard Deviation.
Three levels of parentheses can 
handle up to three pending operations 
to make your work easier. Four-key 
memory allows you to store and recall 
values, add-to memory contents and 
exchange stored and displayed 
numbers.
The TI-25 goes far on a pair of min
iature batteriesincludes APD cir
cuitry. Vinyl wallet included, $33.00*.
See the complete lineup of Texas 
Instruments slide-rule 
calculators at your dealer 
today. Theres one ex
actly right for the work 
you're doing.

---------------------------------------------------

ENTERTAINMENT
S 'n' S wants you to help paint 'Watercolors'
by Russ Militello
Scotch n Soda wants you. Yes, YOU. 
Why? For their upcoming Spring Musical 
Watercolors, the love story of a young 
female artist. Auditions will be held 
Sunday, January 28 at 1 PM in the Wherrett Room.
Do auditions scare you? Well, according 
to Publicity Chairman Matt Sweigart 
theres no need to be afraid; If youd like 
to participate, but dont feel that you are 
talented enough, please give it a try any
way. Were not looking for Broadway per
formers. There are about thirty roles in all^ 
eleven singing and nineteen non-singing, 
which include a male quartet in addition to 
the chorus. Those interested in auditioning 
for singing roles only need to bring a pre
pared song and sheet music, a monologue 
will be provided. Also, remember to dress 
comfortably for movement exercises. Con
vinced yet? Well, maybe a little backround 
information will help.
Scotch n Soda traces its roots all the 
way back to 1938. Since that time it has 
produced an original musical(this years 
by Karen Joy Ravets, Creative writing 
major) every year during Spring Carnival. 
The first production, No Strings, was per
formed in Carnegie Music Hall. After sever
al years, the productions were then held in 
the gym. The most exciting thing that happenned in S n S history is that the 1967
The Production Committee of S 'n' S encourages the student body to participate in upcoming show.
show, Pippin, Pippin went on to become 
the hit Broadway musical(you guessed it) 
Pippin. It all started at CMU.
In addition to acting and singing roles,
this years musical will need a full pit or
chestra and crews for set building, 
costumes, make-up, lighting, publicity, 
and ticket sales. If you are interesred in
any of these backstage technical postions, 
keep an eye out for further information. 
In addition, a designer is needed to create 
a poster. Those interested should contact 
Mike Sweigart through campus mail to the 
S n S box in Skibo. Interview times will 
be set up for a portfolio showing. Inter
ested persons should act immediately as 
the poster is needed by February 3.
And for those of you who are still shy 
about joining this organization, for what
ever reasons, a little insight into the or
ganization itself might be of some help. 
S n S is an amateur theatre organization. 
Amateur meaning that those who join 
are interested in theatre as an avocation, 
promoting community theatre all the way 
from writing to performing. Those who are 
involved are primarily non-drama majors 
who have the desire to produce and share 
in the production of good amateur 
theatre.
Scotch n Soda is comprised of students 
who like to participate in all aspects of 
theatre production. They do not require 
that you be professional or specialized, 
merely that you be willing to work toward 
their goal of producing good theatre. S n 
S has something for everyone, so if you 
have something to offer them, give it a 
try. Auditions are Sunday January 28 at 
1 PM in the Wherrett Room. Stop by and 
get in on the action.
Movie adapted from Simon's Broadway hit
by David Sheward
Neil Simons latest screen effort, Cali
fornia Suite, an adaptation of one of his 
many Broadway hits, will lend support to 
both his critics and his fans. It contains 
some excellent snap, crackle and pop 
dialogue as well as some perfectly awful 
pratfalls.
The premise, which has previously used 
in Plaza Suite, is the combined stories of 
five couples while they stay at the same 
Los Angeles hotel. Couple Number one con
sists of Jane Fonda and Alan Alda, di
vorced for several years and living on oppo
site coasts and worlds. Fonda is sharp, 
bitchy and a dedicated user of pills, psy
choanalysts and witty barbs. Alda is a mild 
and friendly sort who uses health foods. 
Their meeting is what might happen if, 
using Aldas TV series MASH as a frame 
of reference, the acerbic movie Hawkeye
met the saintly TV Hawkeye. After Fonda 
and Alda trade insults about east and west 
coast, they fight over who will get custody 
of their daughter who has been living with 
her mother but wants to try it with her 
father. The patter in this segment is fast 
and funny but delivered lacklusterously.
Couple Number two are Maggie Smith 
and Michael Caine, an Academy Award 
nominated actress in town for the Awards 
ceremony and her A C/DC husband. This 
segment is the best written, all the snaps, 
crackles and pops in the right places and 
beautifully performed by Smith and Caine. 
Caine demonstrates that he is just as good 
playing homosexual antique dealers as he is 
at being espionage agents involved in multi
million dollar intrigue. Smith is simply 
magnificent, though she has all the bad 
luck an individual can manage: being the 
darkest horse in Academy Award history, 
getting smashed after losing, and having a
gay husband. She rides over her adversities 
with wit and elegance.
Couple Number three are Walter Mat
thau and Elaine May. He got in the night 
before she did for his nephews bar mitzvah 
and his brother has set him up with a 
hooker. The morning after, shes dead to 
he world having drunk an entire bottle of 
booze and his wife is coming in any mi
nute. Matthaus struggles to revive the 
hooker are hysterical and some of the best 
examples of good pure physical comedy, 
especially when he tries to pull pantyhose 
over an inert form. May is not given very 
much to do. which is unfortumate since 
she is extremely talented. (She collabo
rated with Warren Beatty on the script of 
Heaven Can Wait and directed Simons 
Heartbreak Kid as well as her own A New 
Leaf, also starring Matthau.) Mays talents 
are not put to use in this film and I wish 
someone, or maybe even May herself,
would created a lead comedy role just for 
her.
Couples four and five are Bill Cosby, 
Richard Pryor and their wives, vacationing 
from Chicago. Their whole story is they are 
accident prone. Thats it. Their rented 
cars overheat, crash and squish up with 
them still in the vehicles. When they play 
tennis they trip over the net, hit each other
with rackets and balls, and on and on. This 
slapstick culminates with a fight between 
Cosby and Pryor with Cosby biting Pryors 
nose. Fun is fun but biting someones nose 
is going too far into Three Stooges terri
tory. Both Cosby and Pryor are skilled 
comedians, but can do little with these 
pratfalls. They deserve better.
Suite contains some of Simons best 
writing as well as poorly directed slap
stick, if you can stand the latter it makes 
the former all the better.
Playhouse's production proves 'Red Hot'
by Lennie Matjasko
If you were to study twentieth century 
American drama a CMU, ten to one you 
would not study the plays of Neil Simon. I 
mean you wouldnt touch them with a tenfoot pole. Not because Simons plays are 
not of and about the twentieth century. 
Nor because they are not American. Truly, 
they are both of these through and 
through. What strikes Simon from the syl
labi of American Theatre scholars, what 
pulls him from the ranks of great American 
dramatists, is the question of whether or 
not his works are, in fact, drama. Are they 
representative of twentieth century Ameri
can drama as are the works of say, O'Neill, 
Miller, or Williams? Will they stand up to 
that most difficult and trying test of alltime?
Last night 1 had the pleasure of watch
ing. The Pittsburgh Playhouses opening 
formance of Simons The Last of the Red 
Hot Lovers. His ninth Broadway success, 
this comedy warmly portrays a middleaged man suddenly aware of the fact that 
death is getting closer every day, and of the 
feeling that his life has been no more than 
just nice. In search of what its like to 
really live, of something romantic and 
beautiful, Barney Cashman takes a break 
from the routine of lunninghis fish restau
rant and awkwardly, hilariously, tries his 
hand at three extra-marital afternoon liasons.
Richard Rauh carries off the role of 
Barney Cashman brilliantly. Originally 
written for actor James Coco, the part de
mands flexibility and a flare for comic 
timing. And Mr. Rauh meets the demands 
movingly and believably. Appearing for the 
second time with the Pittsburgh Playhouse, 
Rauh is a fine professional, and well 
deserves the attention of Pittsburgh 
theatre-goers.
The part of Elaine Navazio, Barneys first 
extra-marital flame, is played by CMUgraduate Katie Karlovitz. She conveys her char
acter well, comes across humorously as the 
cynical, been-around woman of the world 
whose primary motivations for living are
sex and cigarettes.
Helena Ruoti entertains to the hilt in 
her role of Bobbi Michelle, the schizoid 
night club singer whose marijuana and end
less exotic stories leave Barney with no
thing more than a numb mouth and beaten 
eardrums.
And, finally, as Jeannette Fisher, Bar
neys third partner in his quest for the spice 
of life, Patricia Cena does a marvelous job. 
She makes the manic-d.epressive character 
of Jeannette as comical and convincing as 
it can be. Truly, the play is entirely wellcast.
Don DiFonsos costumes and A1 
Kirschmans settings are also precisely ap
propriate. Barney Cashmans routine blue 
suit is just the right shade of routine blue, 
and the womens costumes hit exactly on 
target with their characters. The one-and-ahalf room apartment is a stitch in itself 
with its atrocious pink walls and wild flow
ered drapes. And, I have nothing but com
pliments on the lighting to which, inciden
tally, ! paid particular attention.
Richard Rauh and Katie Karlovitz share an 
intimate conversation.
Directed by James O. Prescott, The 
Pittsburgh Playhouse Theatre Centre s pro
duction of The Last of the Red Hot Lovers 
will be running Thursdays through Satur
days through February 4, curtain time at 8 
PM

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18-TARTAN-January 23, 1979
WHATWHEREWHOWHENHOW
A DANCEBALLROOM SATIN WHIPJANUARY 27 ,10/TGIFand the AlUMNIASSOCIATION SEMI-FORMAL OPEN TO ALL STUDENTS
Theatre production has local setting
A major production of Out of This 
Furnace, a dynamic folk drama about the 
roots of Pennsylvanias working people will 
be presented by Campus Program Planning, 
on February 7th at 8 PM in the Ballroom.
Based on the regional best-seller by 
Thomas Bell, Out of This Furnace traces 
three generations of an immigrant Slovak 
steelworking family from 1880 through 
1937. The setting is the Monogahela Val
ley; the story is that of thousands of im
migrants from the Slovak countries who 
came to South Western Pennsylvania ex
pecting good fortune and the good life. A 
proud people, whose lives are overshadow
ed by, as well as dependent on the steel 
mills, they manage to preserve their person
al dignity while enduring harsh working 
conditions and numerous other hardships.
The play begins with John Dobrejcak 
looking back over his life, beginning with 
his eleventh birthday, the day he lost his 
father as a result of a mill accident, then 
further back to the 1880s and the arrival 
of his grandfather Djuro Kracha in Ameri
ca. The bittersweet history of the family 
unfolds, culminating in a moment of 
triumph and celebration as John Dobie 
and his wife share a tender and joyful 
Christmas eve.
The play, like the novel, is historically 
accurate and the characters originate with 
actual families in the area. Although drawn 
from Pennsylvanias own ethnic heritage, it 
is the story of thousands of immigrants 
who came to America at the turn of the 
century. A prominent theme within the
Julia R. Woyer (center), producer/director of The Iron Clad Agreement, is surrounded by cast members. Left to right: D'Arcy Webb, K. Wilson Hutton, 
James R. Krut, Christopher Josephs, and M. M. Melozzi.
play is the unionizing of the steel industry, 
but the portrayal of character and personal 
struggle with social conditions provide the 
essense of the drama.
The Iron Clad Agreement is a Pitts
burgh-based, professional, repertory, tour
ing, theatre company which was founded 
in 1976. Dedicated to creating regional 
theater pieces from an industrial enviroment, exploring new performance ideas, 
and trying new form and content combin
ations, the companys work is based on 
fact and history. For this production, the 
five versatile actors will create twenty-two 
different roles.
The permanent company members are 
producer-director, Julia R. Swoyer; five 
actors, K.Wilson Hutton, James R. Krut, 
Christopher Josephs, M.M. Melozzi, and 
DArcy Webb; and general company mana
ger, Joanne Malcolm.
For this major undertaking, the com
pany has engaged prominent theater per
sonalities, Andy Wolk of the Manhattan 
Theatre Club, as playwright, and Harold 
Scott, muti-talented actor and director, as 
the director for the production.
On February 7, a discussion group will 
also be conducted in the Wherrett Room at 
noon. This as well as the performance is 
free and open to the campus community.

---------------------------------------------------

January 23, 1979TARTANpage 19
Drama student takes off for firsthand experience
Although many schools offered a com
prehensive course in theater, many were 
too stilted. The curriculums were too 
structured for creative work. As a result, 
they graduated stilted actors.
Along with CMU, The Julliard School 
of Music, New York University and Bridge
port University were among Gails educa
tional considerations. Having weighted the 
advantages and disadvantages of attending 
each institution, she finally decided that 
CMU was the best school for what 1 
was looking for.
CMU did not, however, always meet her 
expectations. Its a good school, but if you 
go there, its important to be incredibly 
self-motivated. CMU gives you all the tools 
that you will need to practice the trade, 
but youve got to have some idea of where 
youre going. Youve got to have some di
rection, or youll get lost; so much infor
mation is handed out there.
One of the problems Gail sees in atten
ding CMU, or any other university is that 
students are isolated from the rest of the 
world and its problems during the four 
years that they attend college. They are 
unaccustomed to dealing with the daily 
issue that may come up on the outside. 
They are so used to being in a classroom, 
that they don't know how to handle little 
things ... like getting an agent.
Gail Grates's freshman year was just 
like many other CMU drama treshmens. 
She studied stage techniques; voice, move
ment, dance, acting and yoga, all the time 
being constantly aware of what was going 
on inside of me. An actors awareness of 
himself is very important.
When classes ended in the spring of
1978, Gail auditioned along with other 
students, professors and additional interes
ted people for the Park Players, a theater 
group affiliated with the City of Pittsburgh 
Department of Parks and Recreation. Lady 
Luck smiled on her and she stayed in the 
city for the summer to work with the 
company.
Although the exposure was wonderful 
and the job competition had been keen, 
her work was not always glamourous. Along with four technicians and seven other 
actors, she was responsible for assembling 
the sets and coordinating the makeup be
fore each show.
that of others ends. Margaret McGrady, a 
friend of Gails and as 1978 graduate of 
CMUs drama department helped to make 
the difference possible.
While with a touring company of For 
Colored Girls, Margaret was asked if she 
knew of anyone who would be interested 
in auditioning for a musical to be present
ed at the Pittsburgh Public Theater during 
the 78-79 season. The auditions for the 
musical, which was later tabled, were to 
lead into auditions for the Pittsburgh 
version of For Colored Girls. Margaret 
arrived in the Steel City on October 2, 
Gails birthday, and spoke with her friend 
about the prospects.
Gail made arrangements for an audition 
and an interview for her last day of classes, 
this December. To her surprise, she was 
contacted for the call-backs, final audi
tions, held in New York.
A mature young lady, who kept her 
nose to the grindstone despite excitement, 
came to the Big Apple. There she con
fronted the other women, actresses with 
years of experience, nice, open, warm 
people who were also trying out for the 
limited parts.
Tired, Gail returned to Connecticut. On 
January 8th, an hour before she left for the 
airport to catch her flight back to school, 
Gail received a phone call. The casting di
rector of the Pittsburgh Public Theater was 
on the other end of the line and the part of 
The Lady in Orange was hers.
For six weeks prior to the opening of 
For Colored Girls, Miss Grate will be miss
ing classes to attend rehearsals. The CMU 
drama department was not only lenient, it 
was enthusiastic. Once the show opens, 
Gail will have the additional commitment 
of performances.
A modest, but practical girl, Gail looks 
at the play as an educational experience. 
*Tm sure Ill learn from the other actress
es; theyre all older and more experi
enced. She also looks to her future after 
the production; If something comes out 
of this show, then thats my future, for 
afterall, what Im training to be is an ac
tress. If not, I can always come back to 
school and finish my studies and when I re
turn, Ill have lots of things to bring back 
to the classrooms . . . lots of new aware
nesses, for Ill have learnt that much 
more.
Along with all of the other college stu
dents across the country, Gail registered 
for classes in September. Here the resem
blance of her second year of college to
Performance of Colored Girls at the 
Pittsburgh Public Theatre will be held 
March 14 through May 6. Watch Upcoming 
Events section for exact times.Gail Grate beams happily over her recent luck at landing a part in PPT'* production of ^or Colornd
Girls.
by Karen Joy Ravets
The house lights are dimmed and the 
stage illuminations turned on at the Pitts
burgh Public Theater. This time it is not a 
very experienced actress from New York 
who leads the audience through a play
wrights interpretation of life, but a CMU 
drama student, sophmore, and newly made 
member of the Actors Equity Association. 
The Lady in Orange in Ntozake Shanges 
play, For Colored Girls Who Have Consi
dered Suicide When the Rainbow is Enuf 
will be portrayed this spring by nineteen 
year-old Gail Grate. This role will be her 
first as a professional Equity member.
Many little girls dream of becoming an 
actress someday, but those who achieve 
their goals have often done so through ex
tensive work. Bom in Queens, New York in 
1959, but a resident of Hamden Conn., a 
small town outside of New Haven, for the 
past twelve years, Gail first became inter
ested in theater in junior high. On a spree 
she auditioned for the play Mouse Trap, in 
7th grade and here efforts were rewarded 
with a part. Although this and subsequent 
roles usually found her portraying old, con
servative women, Miss Grate has represen
ted characters of all types and age groups.
The junior high school drama club soon 
became too important to be considered 
merely an extra curricular activity. It led to 
many acting roles and directing responsi
bilities. Indirectly it brought about her 
first salaried acting job in Plaza Suite with 
a community theater group.
Gail grew with her experiences through
out high school. Her portrayal of the title 
chatacter in her high schools production 
of The Prime of Miss Brodie, won for her 
the Connecticuts Drama Associations best 
actress award. For this she competed with 
all students involved in high school produc
tions. The following year as a high school 
Senior, she again won this distinction for 
her role as Eliza Gant in Look Homeward 
Angel.
When she was not acting, Gail spent her 
time teaching. A daughter of an elementary 
school teacher, she enjoyed working with 
youngsters in English, math and reading. 
She felt that she needed another aware
ness. Any experience in life is beneficary 
to an actress for she can bring what she 
learns on the outside back to the theater.
Now out of high school, and on her way 
to becoming an accomplished actress, Gail 
still feels that experiences outside of the 
theater are important. There are so many 
things that I would like to do; study soci
ology, work in a hospital, teach little kids.
Six years of amateur and semi-professional theater work behind her, Miss Grate
was ready to look at a college, a place 
with a professional training program, but 
one with a well rounded education too; 
one where I could get instruction not only 
in acting, but in music and dance as well.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20TARTANJanuary 23, 1979
The real Hayes gives his views on 'Express'
by Steve Warren
Creating Loafing, a paper serving 
colleges in Atlanta, Georgia
1978, Creating Loafing
Midnight Express, an-artistically made 
thriller combining elements of Papillon, 
One Flew Over the Cuckoos Nest, and Z, 
relates the true story of Billy Hayes, a mid
dle class American sent to a Turkish prison 
for trying to smuggle hashish out of the 
country. When his four-year sentence is 
lengthened to 30 he becomes violent and 
escapes.
Brad Davis, who plays Billy Hayes, looks 
and acts like a young Montgomery Cliff 
with a dash of James Dean thrown in. He 
gives one of the years best performances in 
one of the best movies of the year.
*****
In the opening scene of Midnight Ex
press Billy Hayes (Brad Davis) stands in an 
Istanbul hotel room stripped to his Jockey 
shorts, taping foil-wrapped bricks of hash
ish to his torso.
What is wrong with this picture? I 
dont wear any underpants, the real Billy 
Hayes laughs.
Scene Two: Istanbul Airport. A perspir
ing Billy Hayes is going through customs, 
shaking all the way. Of course theyd 
have spotted me if Id acted like that, 
Hayes says; I was actually even more 
nervous on the inside but I didnt show it.
Outwardly completely recovered from 
his five-year ordeal in Turkish prisons, 
Hayes was in Atlanta as part of a publicity 
blitz for three Midnight Expressesthe 
paperback edition of Hayes book about 
his experiences, the Columbia film version 
and the soundtrack album. There are vast 
differences in the facts as presented in the 
book and movie; but long talks with di
rector Alan Parker have made Hayes ac
cepting of them, even if he doesnt always 
understand the reasons for them.
I missed the rowboat, he says, refer
ring to the craft in which he made his es
cape from Imrali island, and I loved the 
movie.
I loved it too. As of now its got my 
vote for the Best Picture of 1978.
To show the whole escape as it hap
pened, Hayes continues, would have 
changed the focus of the picture. It would 
have taken half an hour and would have 
meant leaving out half an hour of some
thing else.
Had he not liked the way the movie 
turned out, Hayes contract gave him only 
one option: I had no control of contents 
other than if I didnt like the film I could 
take my name off the credits at the end. 
His long years of suffering have left 
Hayes highly opinionated about drugs and 
other illegal substances, and the laws which 
regulate them. He still smokes grass, he 
says, but Im careful not to get caught
Out there in the Atlantic Ocean on a sunshine beach 
theres going to be an outbreak of revelry this vacation 
break. And after the sun goes down... well, you know the 
effect that moonlight has on a celebration. We can only 
hope it wont be a full moon.
Because from Jan. 13 through April 21 were opening 
Naaaau and Paradise Island to a wave of American col
lege students. We have reason to believe that wave may 
reach tidal proportions. Probably because of the price: 
$269 including air fare and 7 nights hotel.
So there it is, young America. We guarantee you the best 
of dancing on the beach, water sports and a roaring party.
Beyond that, youre invited to improvise. And since your 
talent for good timing is legendary, weve made prepara
tions for you. Were going to be ready.
With open arms.
1028 Connecticut Avenue 
Washington D C 20036 
(202) 265-9890
toll free (800) 223 0694
'COLLEGIATE HOLIDAYS INC.INfER^COLLEGIATE
I
$269
? Jan. 13-Jan. 20
? Jan. 20-Jan. 27
? Jan. 27-Feb. 3
? Mar. 3-Mar. 10
? Mar. 10-Mar. 17
$319
? Mar. 17-Mar. 24
? Mar. 24-Mar. 31
? Mar. 31-Apr. 7
? Apr. 7-Apr. 14
? Apr. 14-Apr. 21
? Alright! Sounds good! Ive checked the week I 
want to party and enclosed my $50 deposit.
? Sounds good but Id like to hear more. Send me 
your brochure.
Name________________________________________
Address______________________________________
City__________________StateZip.
TelephoneI
NASSAU&PARADISE ISLAND. BAHAMAS COLLEGE WEEK.
now . . . Im not saying you should smoke 
or not ... Do what you like but know 
what youre doing. In most European 
countries, he points out, you can spend 
two to three years in prison for the posses
sion of one joint. Im for decriminaliza
tion, Ive made speeches about it: but over 
there they dont want to hear about de
criminalization.
What upsets Hayes most is the inequity 
of a system that can imprison people for 
years over a little marijuana while letting 
large scale heroin operations go untouched. 
In Turkey, he says, people were getting 
lighter sentences for murder than we got 
for hash!
If Id been smuggling tobacco it would 
have been morally worse, says the young 
man who both started and stopped smoking 
cigarettes in Sagmalcilar Prison. He calls 
tobacco and alcohol horrendous drugs, 
but saves his strongest attacks for heroin: 
Im so down on heroin. Ive watched so 
many of my friends fade awayit sucks 
the soul out of you.
Sometimes Hayes gets downright 
preachy, sounding like the U.S. govern
ments advertising campaign to warn young 
travelers about foreign drug laws. If you 
get in for drugs youre in for the hassle of 
your life, he quotes, adding that the cam
paign started after his sentence was 
changed: I broke the record. Fifteen years 
had been the longest sentence (an Ameri
can abroad had been given for drugs) until 
they raised mine to 30.
Before starting his promotional tour 
Hayes was summoned to Washington for a 
State Department briefingby the same 
man, he says, whos been negotiating with 
Turkey for a prisoner exchange treaty.
Pregnant? And you didn t 
mean to be? For a free 
pregnacy test and con
fidential, understanding 
support, call Birthright.
621-1988
Those talks, as an epilogue proclaims, be
gan a few weeks after the first public show
ing of Midnight Express at the Cannes 
Film Festival. The briefing consisted 
of facts and statistics concerning things 
Hayes would be discussing: There are 
2500 Americans in jail overseas. The 
greatest number are from New York. 
Most of them are young ...
Though he doesnt recommend the 
course for anyone else, Hayes says that 
prison taught him a lot: When you 
dont have a choice you find out a lot 
of things about yourself ... I was really 
a lot stronger in a lot of ways than I 
knew about. I was also weaker in a lot of 
ways that Id been deluding myself about 
. . . The most important thing I learned is 
that we can do something about our lives; 
we can affect our situation, whatever it is. 
Calling himself an instant celebrity 
our society just pops em in an pops em 
out, Hayes is concerned about doing 
something positive with his power: I 
hope I can be an example. I want my ex
perience to keep other people out of jail. 
The pending prisoner exchange treaty is 
the most gratifying thing to come out of 
the ordeal, he says, but a couple of inci
dents have touched him more personally. 
One was when a young man came up to 
him after a college lecture and said, 
Thank you for your talk, I realize that 
you were more fed up at 23 than I am 
now, so it gives me hope. The other was 
a phone call from a conservative man who 
started by saying how much he hated 
Hayes and everything he stood for. Then 
he said he had let his troubled 15-year-old 
son read Midnight Express and it seemed to
be turning the boy around.
After months of reliving his experiences 
in interviews Hayes says hes going to 
hide in his beachfront apartment and 
probably do more writing. Im 31 now, 
he says. I want to affect people, to reach 
out and touch people.
More than one Midnight Express is a 
lot to ask of one lifetime, but anyone who 
could survive what Billy Hayes did and 
come away a better man for it must have 
the determination to do whatever he wants 
with his life.
Pla ns Fliz ezldnaTz
a Christian Science lecture by 
William Henry AltoncSB of New York 
to be given on Sunday afternoon 
January 28th at 3:15pm in \
First Church of Christ Scientist 
635 Clyde St / Oakland 
lecture, parking, childcareall free.
Come, bring your friends!
jrjrjrjJrJaSEE
come dance the light fantastic!
aniMMi2001 WEST Gl ARNSt NWDChWA hgNRRg wb borvrv cgf
mm
2001 WEST GENERAL ROOINSON STREET 
PITTSBURGH PA {NEXT TO TMVE MVtftS STMXUMI
EVERY FRIDAY ANO SUNDAY
smm2002 ROUTE 41 ANO LINCOLN WAV 664-0553WHITE OAK PR
EVERY FRIDAY AND SATURDAY
THE AREAS ONLY EXCLUSIVELY
under 23 DISCOS!*
11 
; I
5> II

! WWW !

---------------------------------------------------

January 23, 1979-TARTAN-page 21
Best Motion Picture of 1978
Best Performance by an Actor in 1978
Best Performance by an Actress in 1978
Best Director of 1978
Name of College or University
Audiences to be rocked and razzled by musical shows
by Joan Livitski
Whether its the 50s rockin sound that 
rolls you over, or all that jazz that razzje dazzles you, the Stanley has the musi
cal show for you.
If their sellout performances of last year 
are any indication, Sha Na Na is sure to 
find a large welcoming committee when 
they return to Pittsburgh on February 16th 
and 17th at the Stanley.
Their rock and roll music, launched fr
om subways, street corners and lounges, 
has gained them popularity and put them 
in the best concert halls playing to standing 
room only crowds. Sha Na Na is a group of 
ten rock n rollers who exist in that period 
of fast moving swing. Theyve come back, 
(should that be forward?), to todays music 
scene just long enough to bring to life the 
music of Little Richard, Big Bopper, Elvis, 
Jerry Lee Lewis and many others.
Their list of musical credits looks like an 
anthology of greatest hits,-proving that th
eir appeal extends to fans numbering in the 
millions. Along with record releases 
Sha Na Na has also proven themselves sue 
cessful through their hit TV show and the 
hottest floating rock and roll show to tour 
the states as well as Europe.
However, Sha Na Nas is more than a 
rock and roll show. They present the audi
ence with a theatrical production that 
blends the unpredictability of ten hard jivin greasers with sets, costumes and chor
eography that rivals any Brroadway show. 
More than just providing entertainment, 
their show enables the audience to experi
ence the first era of pop culture.
The era, its music, trends and state
ments, and Sha Na Na are here to stay, and 
its not due to any pat formula or gim
micks. Their performance engages our 
minds and our souls, while throwing us 
into thought and retrospection.
If, on the other hand, youd rather be 
razzle dazzled than rock n rolled, the show 
you want to catch is Chicago. Im not talk
ing about the recording group, but rather 
the Broadway musical extravaganza. Razzle 
Dazzle not only just happens to be one of
the many hit songs of the show, but it is al
so representative of the productions theme 
and intent. The same collaboration of Bob 
Foss, John Kander and Fred Ebb, that 
made Cabaret such a blockbuster, is the 
one at work behind Chicago.
The musical is based on a 1926 stage 
comedy of the same title that saw several 
film incarnations. The most notable of 
these is Roxie Hart starring Ginger Rogers. 
Roxie is the heroine in this tale of a Hon
ky-Tonk sousrette whos brought to justice 
for shooting her lover. The scales are heavi
ly weighted against justice when a slick 
lawyer takes on her case. She becomes a 
front page sensation, with offers pouring in 
for hightly-paid vaudeville engagements.
This character will be portrayed by Susan 
Streator with Don Murray having the role 
of the suave speaking lawyer.
Along with exuberant and seductive 
dance numbers, Chicago's jazz score sports 
such well know hits as All That Jazz and 
Razzle Dazzle.
Having opened officially on Broadway 
on June 3, 1975, the critics reserved their 
major tributes for the female stars of the 
show and for the innovative staging and 
production of its director and choreo
grapher, Bob Foss. Several months after 
the opening, an illness caused Gwen Verdon to withdraw temporarily from the 
cast, and she was replaced by Liza Minnelli 
until her return. The show continued run
ning healthily even after the stars were re
placed by relative unknowns. It played for 
922 performances and closed on Broadway 
August 27, 1977, a run of two and a half 
years. The national tour of major cities fol
lowed.
Chicago will be presented February 8, 9, 
and 10 at the Stanley Theatre by DiceasarEngler Productions. Tickets are $6 to $12 
on sale at the Stanley Box-office, Kaufmann's and National Record Marts.
Sha Na Na will appear at the Stanley on 
February 16 and 17. For ticket informa
tion call 281-3700.
Movie camera seen as artistic tool of film directors
Judges of the Datsun-sponsored FOCUS 
Student Film and Essay Competition this 
year are most illustrious. In the film cate
gory, they are: Steven Spielberg /'JAWS 
and Close Encounters of the Third Kind/ 
Paul Mazursky (An Unmarried Woman/ 
Dyan Cannon (the actress directorwriter/ 
producer), Conrad Hall (Oscar for cinema
tography: Whos Afraid of Virginia Woolf 
and Bound For Glory/ They have been 
assembled by FOCUS to provide the most 
meaningful feedback possible for winning 
students.
by Mr. Jacques P. Bailhe
(Excerpted from the FOCUS 78 AwardWinning Essay)
The moving camera is used to varying 
degree in every film genre, but in the musi
cal, it is as basic as song and dance. It is a 
principal characteristic. Right from the first 
musical, The Jazz Singer to New York, 
New York, it is there. But looking over the 
efforts of various directors of musicals, it 
becomes apparent that one stands out as 
being the master of the moving camera: 
Vincente Minnelli.
For Minnelli, the camera is no longer a 
simple recording instrument set in a certain 
position to gain an advantageous view of 
the action. Instead, the camera is an inte
gral part of the blocking and dialogue- the 
narrative.
There is a scene in Meet Me in St. Louis 
where Margaret OBrien, who plays Tootie,
the youngest of the Smiths, is on her way 
to perform a dangerous escapade. It is Hal
loween night and Tootie is dispatched'by 
the older kids in the neighborhood to sym
bolically kill a man whom they all believe 
to be the devil incarnate. As in typical Hal
loween, the wind is howling, fallen leaves 
swirl like risen spirts, and the strange light 
from the gas street lamps produces forbid
ding holes of blackness and goblin-like 
shadows. The atmosphere would be enough 
in itself to set most hearts thumping, but 
Minnelli pulls a thousand times more out of 
the scene with his camera. To begin with, 
instead of just setting the camera mid-point 
along Tooties path and panning as she 
walks along the eerie street, Minnelli elects 
to dolly. The camefa is set free and floats 
as supernaturally as the leaves. Further, the 
camera precedes Tootie so we cant see 
what she is walking into. It is as if we are 
walking backward, ourselves, into some 
unknown danger. On top of this, the dolly 
causes the background to fall off in scale 
dramatically. The trees, other children, and 
her house seem to rush away into the 
blackness behind Tootie, in contrast to her 
slow, terrified walk forward.
Directors like Berkeley and Sandrich use 
the moving camera, but they miss an im
portant aspect. The camera is moved well 
technically, but it never gets past being 
simple functional or synthetic. The move
ments are either a direct outgrowth of the
actionfollowing someone to a dooror to 
pick out Ginger Rogers singing Let Your
self Go. The camera is simply moving and 
has no other bearing on the situation. The 
camera moves never tell us anything more 
about the action than we already know.
Again in Meet Me in St. Louis, Garland 
comes to a window to sing The Boy Next 
Door. She moves with the camera which 
ends up outside the house, framing her 
with an open window. There is no need to 
move the camera here. She is at a moment 
of rest and separated from the action of 
her family and the world. We come to an 
instrumental passage in the song after a few 
verses, and as she turns to go to a mirror 
inside, Minnelli cuts to the interior to pick 
her up. She rises from the window seat, 
goes over to the mirror and dances inno
cently. She returns to the window and we 
follow, then cut outside, again looking 
through the window. We dolly out slowly 
as she comes back to her previous position, 
then, just as she begins to sing, she reaches 
up and gently strikes the window frame 
with her open hand. Precisely at this mo
ment, the dolly stops and we are framed as 
we were in the opening of the song.
This is where Minnelli stands out against 
other directors in the musical genre. His 
camera moves are narrative, functional, and 
beautiful simultaneously.
FOCUS '79 Filmmaking Scholarships are 
being provided by Universal Studios. Thom
Mount, Executive Vice President of Univer
sal Theatrical Motion Pictures, has said that 
It is clear that prominent filmmakers of 
today have come from the ranks of those 
who have made the study of film a serious 
pursuit . . . honoring these outstanding 
men and women, Universal continues its 
tradition of encouraging and promoting tal
ented newcomers within the film indus
try.  Watch this space for the next article 
in the series, FOCUS on Film.
Please fill out and mail in the form be
low, by February 15, 1979.
Ballots are returnable to FOCUS: Student's 
Choice Awards / 1140 Avenue of the 
Americas New York, N. Y. 10036.

---------------------------------------------------

WfefeMMA  * *  ><t I ><l  11 f t < V* - * *'* * *. *  ****<*** .'* 
Pgh. Symphony celebrates
Victoria Bond, the Music Director of the Pittsburgh Youth Orchestra, creates the magic of music 
with the wave of her baton.
Conducted by its new Music Director, 
Victoria Bond, the annual Heinz Hall 
concert of the Pittsburgh Youth Orchestra 
will take place on February 10th at 8:00 
PM. The Orchestra will program Capriccio 
Espagnol of Rimsky Korsakov, Saint 
Saens Introduction and Rondo Capriccioso, the first movement of the Lalo 
Cello Concerto, the Finale of Vieuxtemps 
Violin Concerto No. 4, concluding with the 
rousing Tschaikovsky Symphony no. 5.
In recognition of the International 
Year of the Child, a Young Artists Com
petition was initiated by the Conductor. 
Because of the excellence of the contes
tants, it became necessary to 
choose three soloists instead of one as 
originally planned. They are Richard 
Chang, violinist, Ellen Ginzburg, violinist, 
and Lisa Leininger, cellist.
Founded in 1954, the Pittsburgh 
Youth Orchestra has achieved an inter
national reputation for excellence. Its 
goal- is to offer the best training for young 
musicians, be it as solo performers, or
chestral players or teachers. In this, the 
Pittsburgh Youth Orchestra has succeeded 
admirably. It has an enviable record for 
placements with major, metropolitan orch
estras, as well as orchestra conductors, 
performers and teachers.
In 1977, the Pittsburgh Youth Or
chestra participated in the First American 
Youth Orchestra Festival in Washington 
D.C. It was honored by being the only 
orchestra to play on the Ellipse of the 
White House, after which a certificate of 
appreciation from President Carter was 
received.
The Pittsburgh Youth Orchestra was the 
sole orchestra to represent North America 
in the 1977 Vienna Youth and Music 
Festival. Chosen by competition to partic
ipate, they played the concert which 
opened the Festival in front of City 
Hall in Vienna. They were the only or
chestra to be honored at a reception given 
by the President of Austria, who com
mented on the high musical caliber of 
the group.
On the Pennsylvania 76 Bicentennial 
tour, the Orchestra played in sixteen cities
from Pennsylvania to St. Lousis, perform
ing to an estimated 300,000 people.
In introducing the Orchestra, the 
Director of the Three Rivers Arts Festival 
said: I want you to see what can be done 
for young musicians. Their playing is 
magnificent. This Orchestra is one of the 
best of its kind in the country. I doubt 
there is better training to be had any 
place in the world.
The 25th Anniversary Concert by the 
Pittsburgh Youth Symphony Orchestra 
featuring Young Artists will be given 
at Heinz Hall on February 10 at 8 PM. All 
alumni are cordially invited to attend this 
concert and the reception following. 
They should contact Mr. Maazel for 
guest tickets.
Tickets may be purchased at Heinz 
Hall Box Office, or by writing Heinz 
Hall for the Performing Arts, 600 Penn 
Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa., 15222. Cost of 
the tickets are $10, $6, $5, and $4. Group 
rates and student tickets are available.
Musicians 'Rush' to success
by David Radack
The Canadian power trio, RUSH, prov
ed once again why they are one of Pitts
burghs favorite bands. Combining a heavy 
metal sound with optical trickery, the 
band gave a memorable arena perform
ance.
RUSH is the latest super group out of 
Canada, following BTO and Hearts lead 
into the spotlight. With a number of gold 
albums and a strong fan allegiance, they 
have begun to play big halls and to draw 
big audiences. RUSH fans are a dedicated 
bunch, as evidenced by the spirited re
action to the older tunes such as Working 
Man, In the Mood, By-Tor and the Snow 
Dog, and to the many banners welcoming
them to the Civic Arena.
There was definitely plenty of hard rock 
to go around. In addition, the light show 
and the huge movie screen provided the 
most visual concert this reviewer has ever 
seen. The highlight of the visual effects 
was a simulated trip through space during 
the son&Hemisphere.
For the most part, the older tunes were 
better received. However, The Trees from 
the recently released Hemispheres album 
was a crowd favorite.
RUSHS basic power chords coupled 
with Geddy Lees high pitched screams 
makes their music flawlessly dynamic. 
The crowd, the stage show, and the unmistakeably hard rock sound made for a 
great concert experience.
f
AN EXPLOSIVE 
WIDE SCREEN EXPERIENCE 
dealing with tf*e emotionally provocative 
and the sometimes confounding issue of love.i 
Dramatic, controversial, powerful. ft
Don't miss it! Music from Olivia Newton John, 
The Captain and Tenille and others
tonight23January
307mP
Skibo Ballroom
PA3AGOI1 EXPE3E1C
Page 22-TARTAN-January 23, 1979
A TOURING PRODUCTION OF 
CAMPUS CRUSADE FOR CHRIST

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
Hoopsters crush Case
by David Brandwene
Center Dave Hoffmeister exploded for 
12 of his game high 20 points in the first 
ten minutes of the second half to break 
open a close game and give CMU an im
pressive 84-62 home court victory over 
Case Western Reserve University on Sat
urday. The win keeps the Tartan basketballers on top of the Presidents Athletic 
Conference holding a 4-0 record, with an 
important game upcoming tomorrow night.
Case Western, 1-2 in league play prior to 
the game, stayed even with CMU for the in
itial 18 minutes of the first half. They 
took advantage of their good defense and 
early foul trouble by the Tartans. However, 
with two minutes to play in the half, Tar
tan guards Dan Donahoe and Joe Belechak 
combined for six unanswered points to give 
CMU a 35-30 halftime lead.
The Tartans domintated the second half 
of play as they opened up a nine point lead
with 16 minutes left on the clock and were 
never threatened the rest of the way. 
Tough defense and good execution on of
fence allowed three other players besides 
Hoffmeister to finish in double figures. 
They were Buddy Hobart, Larry Hufnagel 
and Marrano DeFilippo who had 19, 15 
and 11 points respectively. Coach Maloney 
emptied the bench with two minutes re
maining* in the game, allowing the rest of 
the squad to contribute to the teams 49 
second half points.
CMU outrebounded Case Western by a 
47-32 count and also outshot them 47% to 
42% from the field and 71% to 53% from 
the foul line.
Larry Hufnagel was named Player of the 
Week by the Presidents Athletic Confer
ence after his outstanding performance 
against Hiram and John Carroll last week.
Swim team victorious
A winter ski festival
by Patti Miller ^
Last Saturday, the CMU Swimming 
Team coached by Donna Pecman, and 
managed by Ron Mathos and Jeff Harrison, 
opened its conference dual meet schedule 
with an easy victory over Hiram College 
77-35. After taking the medley relay it was 
evident that the 25 meter pool would have 
little effect on the Tartan Swimmers who 
practice in a 25 yard pool. The medley re
lay was won by Joe Dickey, Harry Cole
man, Jim Matysek and freshman sprinter 
Todd Reinke. In the 800 free CMU showed 
the strength of its distance men as Wilson 
Boyce and Dave Watterson placed first and 
second respectively. Freshman Nick Watts 
was spectacular in the 200 free with a first 
place finish and Tom Gerlowski was right 
behind in second_place.
There were two heats of the 50 free. 
Todd Reinke took a second, and in the ex
hibition heat the girls of the team, Janet 
Axtell, Maureen Fernandez and Patti 
Miller, swept their heat. Although the girl 
swimmers have a small chance to score 
points for the team, they have worked hard 
to improve their times.
Senior Co-Captain and All-American 
Harry Coleman moved into an early lead in 
the 200 fly and coasted to victory. Soph
omore Tom Barr sprinted his way to a win 
in the 100 free. The girls also participated 
in an exhibition heat of the 100 free. Se
nior Co-Captain Joe Dickey won both the 
200 IM and the 200 backstroke.
Sophomore star Jim Matysek was con
sistent with last years pace and performed
an outstanding 400 free. Brian Hobbs and 
Jamie Uber took second and third in the 
200 breaststroke.
At the completion of required dives, 
Bob Frye, placing second, had a chance to 
qualify for Nationals but did not dive as 
well in the optional round. Tony Carring
ton and Debbie Cohen took third and 
fourth in the required dives.
The Tartans finished the meet just as 
they began, with an easy victory in the 400 
free relay swum by Tom Barr, Jim Maty
sek, Tom Gerlowski, and Nick Watts.
Ten of the swimmers spent Christmas 
vacation in Ft. Pierce, Florida, where they 
swam approximately seven miles in two 
practice sessions a day. Their muscles are 
tom from these workouts, but the hard 
work and dedication will be evident as 
they peak for the PAC championships.
Some of the swimmers also can look 
forward to Nationals. All-American Harry 
Coleman is off to another fantastic season 
as he set a school record with a time of 
2:06.5 in the 200 fly. Harry placed fifth 
last year at Nationals in the 100 fly. Jim 
Matysek, who took 13th place last year 
in Nationals and missed All-American 
honors by one place, improved his times 
from the start of last years season. CMU 
will also try to qualify its medley relay 
team consisting of Joe Dickey, Harry 
Coleman, Jim Matysek, and either Tom 
Barr, Todd Rienke or Nick Watts who will 
anchor the relay. The Tartans are looking 
forward to another successful season and 
prove to be an exciting team to watch.
sure Development (B.O.L.D.)
In addition to the races, city residents 
of all ages are invited to take part in a 
snowman building contest or watch a cel
ebrity kyak race on the snow, all slated to 
begin at noon.
An Awards Ceremony will take place 
following the days events during which the 
winner of a cross country ski package 
donated by Avalanche, Inc. will be named. 
The winner must be present to receive the 
prize or else, another name will be drawn.
In the event there is not enough snow to 
conduct the events, the City of Pittsburgh 
Winter Ski Festival will be held Sunday, 
February 28, 1979.
For further information, contact Deb
orah Solow or Pat Ciccone at 225-2350.
The City of Pittsburgh Department of 
Parks and Recreation in cooperation with 
Avalanche, Inc. will sponsor a Winter Ski 
Festival on Sunday. January 28, 1979 at 
the Schenley Golf Course located at For
bes Avenue and Northumberland Street.
The main event will bfc a series of cross
country ski competitions including a three 
kilometer race for beginners; a six kilo
meter race for intermediates and a nine 
kilometer race for expert skiiers. Prizes will 
be awarded to the male and female winners 
in each of eight age classifications. Cross 
Country skiiers of all ages are eligible to 
enter and registration has been set to open 
at 10 AM.
A special three kilometer race for blind 
skiiers will be conducted in cooperation 
with the Pennsylvania Blind Outdoor LeiFencers defeat CSU
The CMU Fencing team beat Cleve
land State University 3-2 last Saturday. 
Coming back from last years losses, the 
first bout of this year was characterized
* by confident team fencing.
Freshman Kevin Dowig led the varsity 
squad with a 2-0 record, while Jon McGraw, 
Peter Bond, Aaron Scheiner, Brian Pierson, 
Jay Michaels, Jillian Holdridge and Kathey 
Stadler all had 2-1 records. Clipping in with 
ne victory a piece were Steve Hooberger, 
Drew Mendler and Mark Segal. Also 
fencing were Rick McCvue, Alice Tone.
Luisey Schubel and Julie Moms Cohen. 
Team members helping out were Jim 
Marshall, Jeff Jeycete, Ken Kulak, Chris 
Wetmore and Carl Cintile.
The team's next meet is tomorrow 
against Penn State (Fayete) at home at 6 
p.m. This Saturday there will be another 
home meet against St. Marys College of 
Maryland at 1 p.m.
This years squad, with 12 returning 
lettermen and many fine beginners, prom
ises to be one of the strongest ever. The 
campus community is invited to all meets.
Joe Belechak pops a jumper over a Case defender.

---------------------------------------------------

Olli
National Car Rental
SYSTEM
CAMPUS
Meet company recruiters representing 
all Bell System Companies 
throughout the U.S.
MAKE AN APPOINTMENT NOW WITH YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICE
Mfe are an equal opportunity employer
$17*-i U v'Ls Cut'ass or siii'ar E H 200 no-charge ii'es per Lay 4621 Forbes iUo. .
National Car Rental makes it easy for you to enjoy those away games, 
go home for the holidays or just get away from the campus for the 
weekend. This low weekend rate is available anytime from 8:00 a.m. 
Friday until 6:00 p.m. Monday at our Forbes Avenue location. You pay 
for gas and return the car to the renting location. There's no extra 
charge for the first 200 miles each day, and additional miles are just 
J9C each. Rate is non-discountable and subject to change without 
notice. Specific cars subject to availability, so make your reservation
today.
'i? *r sLi.
____________________
682-1444
4621 Forbes Ave. (Hess Exxon)
away games,- *1-10
Page 24-TARTAN-January 23, 1979
Buddy Hobart stops a Case offender's drive to the hoop.
TEST PREPARATION 
SPECIALISTS SINCE 193
Visit Our Centers 
And See For Yourself 
Why We Make The Difference
Call Days, Eves & Weekends
661-2772
IM news
In the Bell System you start at management level. And 
we dont intend to pamper you. We know by now that 
when youre fresh from the graduation ceremony, you 
have a lot more to offer than most businesses give you 
credit for. And well take advantage of it. Well throw 
problems at you right away Big problems.
And there are a lot of them. A field as fast-paced as 
communications produces them as fast as we can 
solve them.
We are interested in aspiring people with Bachelors 
or Masters degrees. See your Placement Office for 
specific Degree Requirements.
i^iDiiitHMKiaiiHHiitiiiDiiiuiitiiiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiuiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiifiI
IStart out where its happening...  in a meaningfulmanagement job f
Intramurals this week: Basketball, sched
ules have been posted. Copies are available 
for teams at the I.M. Office, room 104 in 
the gym. - . t,:
Officials schedules have been posted. 
Please check assignments and be sure to 
work all games assigned.
Commissioners for IM Basketball are  
Bob Dudas BTP and Bob McNall ZBT.
Sports coming up: Entry due Thursday for 
Jan. 25, 4:30 PM.
Bridge, commissioner is Tim Horkin TX. 
Handball commissioner is Dave Lexander 
ext. 2691. Water Basketball, commissioner 
is Brian Hobbs phone 683-7691.
This IM Basketball season holds the new 
record number or participating teams. 
There is a total of 23 teams with over 1000 a 
students involved. The total for 1978 was ^ j 
87 teams.

---------------------------------------------------

SCHEDULE OF FREE LESSONS
STUDENTS, FACULTY AND ADMINISTRATION OF CARNEGIE- MELLON UNIVERSITY
MONDAY JAN. 22 - THRU THURSDAY JAN. 25 12:30, 6:45, 8:1 5
FRIDAY, JAN. 26 12:30, 6:45
SATURDAY JAN. 27 12:00
SUNDAY JAN. 28 2:00, 6:45, 8:15
HUNT LIBRARY, FOURTH FLOOR  FOLLOW THE SIGNS TO THE CLASSROOM PLEASE BE PROMPT!
SPEND ONE HOUR WITH US TOWARDS YOUR FUTURE! BRING A FRIEND
? EVELYN WOOD READING DYNAMICS
1978 Evelyn Wood 
Reading Dynamics Inc
It gets down to what you want to do and what you 
have to do. Take the free Evelyn Wood Reading 
Dynamics lesson and you can do ithandle all the 
work college demands and still have time to enjoy 
college life.
You can dramatically increase your reading speed 
today and thats just the start. Think of the time, 
the freedom youd have to do the things you want 
to do. For twenty years the ones who get ahead
have used Reading Dynamics. Its the way to read 
for todays active worldfast, smooth, efficient.
Dont get left behind because there was too much 
to read. Take the free Evelyn Wood Reading 
Dynamics lesson today. You can dramatically 
increase your reading speed and learn about 
advanced study techniques in that one free 
lesson. Make the college life the good life. With 
Reading Dynamics you can do it.

---------------------------------------------------

Library, PA 15129 835-4809
with "Shoes of MigrationWine & Cheese Party
at Pilam, 1057 Morewood
ANNOUNCEMENTS^CLASSIFIED ADS --------
Classified Announcements:
Deadline, Wednesday, noon. Rate - $.10 
word. Address all classifieds to TARTAN 
Business Manager.
classified
78 Buick LaSabre, V-8 2 door. Powder
Blue, Mags, Dual Sport Mirrors, AM & 
FM Stereo, Velour Interior, Padded Lan
dau, Opera Windows. Call 734-0665. 
Student Aide  flexible hours, must
qualify for work study. General office 
work, xeroxing, errands. $3:00/hr. Call 
578-2670.
Help Wanted. Three Work-Study students
wanted for clerical work (filing, light 
typing, running errands, etc. ) in EE De
partment Office. Contact Sharon Johnson, 
HH 108, x2454.
ROOMMATE WANTED: To share 3 bed
room house in Squirrel Hill $100 plus utili
ties call 422-5830 or 578-2397 and ask for 
Don or Bruce.
Male grad student wanted to share apart
ment $85/mo. plus 1/3 utilities. Should 
not exceed $125 total. Great location. Call 
422-5055.
Roommate wanted to share three bed
room furnished townhouse, Squirrel Hill, 
close to CMU, own bedroom, $95/mo., 
call 422-8528.
Erotic dancers: Excellent entertainment
for private groups. Call Kit Kat or Christie 
at 731-8877.
32 inches Beka frameloom. Regularly
$115.50 now $95.50
42 inch Schact 4-harness loom. Regularly 
$475.00 now $437.75 
36 inch Schact 4-harness loom. Regularly 
$400.00 now $340.00 
Call Babs Blaine Gurcsik, 327-8813.
Ray Warren - please contact FOLIO editor 
K.A.Y. A.S.A.P.
Attractive female wanted!
Get pumped team and you'll smoke your 
rivals right off that court!
-Magoo
DRDRDRDRDRDR,
My brain fell out and onto the floor. 
Any advice?
A.H. Ya Know
Who is Sev?
clubs
"Space: A Key to Meeting Tomorrow's
Energy Needs" will be the subject of a talk 
by Anita Gale of Aerojet Electro Systems 
on Tuesday, January 30,8:00 PM in Skibo. 
Room 11. Refreshments will be served. 
Sponsored by the Society of Women Engi
neers, open to the campus community.
The Finance Committee of Student
Senate meets Thursdays in Skibo, 
Room 13 at 7 PM. Meetings are open 
to the nuhlic
Jobs now available at Rent-A-Tech:
Babysitting jobs...Call for further info! 
Vocabulary & Speech tutor Job no. 206 
Math tutor (220)
Hang doors Carpentry (229)
Housecleaning jobs...call for further info! 
Electrical Engineer or Computer Science 
major needed (must know about micro
processors) (258)
Statistics tutor (Statistical methods) (260) 
Someone needed to wire electrical outlets 
into wall (268)
Graphic Designer needed (270)
T.V. Repair needed (271)
Other jobs listed at our office, Skibo Rm 58 
or call 578-3535 Anytime.
CMU AIESEC meets every Wednesday 
at 4:30 PM in Skibo 11. The campus com
munity is welcome.
Acting Auditions for Scotch 'n Soda's
1979 Spring Musical, "Watercolors will 
be held on Sunday, January 28, at 1:00 
PM in the Wherrett Room, Skibo. Singers 
should bring a prepared song, with sheet 
music. Dialogue will be provided. Dress 
comfortably for movement audition. Non
singing roles are available. If you have any 
questions, contact the S'n'S Board of 
Directors, Skibo, Room 40D, campus 
x3522.
general
ATTENTION SENIORS: The Senior Ban
quet is coming on Saturday, January 27 
and all seniors are cordially invited. Tickets 
are available at the Alumni Office (5th 
floor Warner Hall) until Wednesday, Jan
uary 24. You must have an ID to get a 
ticket and you must have a ticket to get 
in to the banquet. Please join us for fun, 
food, music and prizes.
SENIORS WHO DID NOT GET THEIR 
PICTURE TAKEN LAST WEEK! The 
photographer will be returning sometime 
soon. Look for information in upcoming 
TARTANs. .
TO ALL CMU FOREIGN STUDENTS
AND VISITORS: All Aliens are required 
to report their addresses to the Immi
gration Office during January of each year. 
(1) An Alien Address Report Card (Form 
I-53) may be picked up at any U.S. Post 
Office or the Immigration Office Down
town; (2) complete all items on the card; 
(3) place a stamp on the reverse side of 
the card and drop the card into the near
est mailbox. Any alien who willfully or in
excusably fails to report as required is 
liable to be taken into custody and de
ported. Imprisonment or fines may be 
levied before deportation.
DO NOT wait until you fall behind in your
work. FREE TUTORING is available in 
most CIT, MIS, and AMS courses, as well 
as some H&SS courses. Stop in the Peer 
Help Center, Baker Hall 150-A to sign up 
for a tutor.
LEARN TO SAVE A LIFE... Cardio-Pulmonary Resuscitation will be offered this 
spring semester, March 12 through 16, 
12:00 - 1:30 PM in Room 12, Skibo. Upon 
successful completion of the course, par
ticipants will be certified by both the 
American Red Cross and the American 
Heart Association. Course will be taught by 
Earl Birdy, head of the CMU Intramural 
Dept, and Mark Keppler, CMU Athletic 
Trainer. Both are certified instructors of 
CPR. If you have already taken the course 
once before, use this opportunity to renew 
your certification. This course is part of a 
mini-course series offered by Campus Pro
gram Planning. Registration will begin 
February 5 at the Skibo Information Desk. 
Course is free. Registration fee is $1.00.
Have you often wondered whether or not
you would be able to protect yourself 
against a physical attack? Everyone is a po
tential victim. Campus Program Planning is 
offering a Self Defense Course to the 
campus community as part of a mini
course series beginning in mid-February. 
This course will be taught by Curtis Smith, 
a Black Belt Karate expert and a certified 
police trainer. It is open to men and wommen at the special rate of $5.00 for stu
dents and $10.00 for staff. Registration 
will begin on February 5 at the Skibo 
Information Desk.
Activities Board Coffeehouse Committee
will be holding auditions, Sunday, January 
28 from 12 - 2PM in the Wherrett Room, 
Skibo. Anyone interested in performing at 
a coffeehouse must audition. If you are in
terested in auditioning, please leave your 
name, phone number, and type of talent, 
number of musicians, and props needed 
(piano, stools, etc.) in the coffeehouse 
mailbox, at the Skibo information Desk. 
At the audition we are interested in seeing 
a representation of the range of your 
material. Each audition will last ten min
utes. Coffeehouse Committee will be in 
touch with you before the audition date to 
set up a definite time for each separate 
audition within the above mentioned time 
period.
Is it a struggle to find a moment to relax or
to do creative things during your free time? 
Maybe you have never had the chance to 
take a whole semester course or never quite 
learned it on your own. Everyone has an 
instinctive urge to create, to expand their 
knowledge. Campus Program Planning is 
offering you the opportunity to explore 
the joys of free time and touch upon new 
areas of interest. Beginning mid-February, 
a series of 5-week mini-courses will be of
fered to the entire campus community. 
Courses will be non-credit and will include 
yoga, disco-dancing, excercise, Cardio
pulmonary resusitation, self-defense, art 
appreciation, and others. Registration will 
begin Feb. 5 at the Skibo Info Desk. Watch 
for more details.
The Pittsburgh Scottish Country Dance
Society will hold its regular class on Fri
day, January 26 at 8 PM at the First 
Presbyterian Church in Wilkinsburg.
The group meets on the first and third 
Saturdays of the month at 7:30 PM, and 
on the second and fourth Fridays at 8 PM. 
Newcomers are very welcome to attend.
For more information, and possible help 
with transportation, call Robin Drake 
at 421-7179.
The City of Pittsburgh Department
of Parks and Recreation in coopera
tion with Avalanche offers city res
idents the opportunity to enjoy cross 
country skiing at the Schenley Park 
Golf Course Fridays through Sun
days, 9 AM to 5 PM. 
Cross Country Ski equipment is 
available for rental at the rate of $6 S3 
per full day and $4 per half day. 
Proof of City Residency, a drivers 
license or voter's registration card 
must be provided. All children under 
16 years of age must be accompanied 
by an adult.
The City of Pittsburgh Department of
Parks and Recreation has a winter chocked 
full of activities for city residents. Infor
mation and activities schedules are con
tained in a free twelve page newspaper * 
available at all City of Pittsburgh facili
ties and through Carnegie Library. Enjoy 
winter in Pittsburgh. Get a copy now!
The Allegheny County Department of
Parks, Recreation and Conservation is now 
accepting Lifeguard Applications for em
ployment during the summer of I979.
Lifeguards will be hired to work at the 
county's three new wave pools in Boyce 
Park, South Park and Settler's Cabin Park, 
as well as, North Park's conventional swim
ming facility and 75 acre recreational lake.
All Lifeguard candidates must possess 
current advanced lifesaving certification, 
CPR Training, and first aid certification.
Applicants will also be required to take 
a written an aquatics test, February I7,at 
Trees Pool, University of Pittsburgh, to be 
considered. A complete physical examina
tion form must be filed with the Parks De
partment prior to the aquatics test.
Information packets containing all nec
essary forms, applications arid instructions * 
for Lifeguard applicants may be obtained 
at the following offices:
Parks, Recreation & Conservation 
Room 345 County Office Building 
Pittsburgh, PA 15219 355-4251 
North Park Administration Building 
Box 303 Pearce Mill Road 
Allison Park, PA 15101 935-1766 
Boyce Park Administration Building 
675 Old Frankstown Road 
Pittsburgh, PA 15239 271-2717 
South Park Administration Building 
Buffalo Drive

---------------------------------------------------

SpplipuTHTpIs& CLASSIFIED ADS -------
Mr. William Alton of New York City will
lecture on the topic "God is Your Pro
vider", under the auspices of the Pitts
burgh Christian Science Church. The 
venue is 635 Clyde St. (Off 5th Ave. 
n Oakland), and the time: 3:15 PM, 
Sunday, January 28. Admission is free 
and no collections will be taken.
Anyone interested in modeling in the an
nual CMU Fashion Show should attend 
the meeting Thursday, January 25, 7:30 
PM in the Morewood Library. This is the 
firrst and only organizational meeting for 
the models. For further information 
contact Yvonne Brown (x4758) or Mar
garet Moon (x4395).
John Crecine, Dean of H&SS holds open
office hours Tuesday, 3:00 to 5:00 PM
A Disco Dance with a Dee Jay will be held
on Saturday 27 at 9:00 PM on the 4th 
Floor of the Jewish Community Center, 
315 S. Beliefield Ave. It is sponsored by 
B'nai B'rith Hillel and is the opening 
event of the Campus Campaign for Israel 
and World Jewry.
Interested in becoming a Resident Assis
tant? Job descriptions and applications are 
now available in the Student Affairs office, 
205 Warner Hall. In order to qualify for 
the position, you must be in good standing 
with the University, maintaining a Q.P.A. 
of 2.0. Applications will be available from 
January 17 to February 1. Return all com
pleted applications to the Student affairs 
office 5PM, Thursday, February 1. No 
applications will be accepted after that 
date and time.
Artist? CMU student? Work with plant
themes? The Hunt Institute for Botanical 
Documentation, Hunt Library, would like 
to consider your work for an exhibition 
of student art in the Hunt Library Pent
house. Any medium is acceptable, as 
long as the subject is plants. Entry forms 
are available from John Brindle or James 
White in the Penthouse. Selection will be 
made in conjuction with the Department 
of Art. For more information, call x2440.
scholarships prizes
College Poetry Review, a contest: Any
student attending either junior or senior 
college is eligible to submit his verse.
There is no limitation as to form or theme. 
Shorter works are preferred by the Board 
of Judges, because of space limitations. 
Each poem must be typed or printed on a 
separate sheet, and must bear the name and 
home address of the student, and the 
college address as well. Entrants should 
also submit name of English instructor. 
Deadline for manuscripts is Feb. 15. 
Mail to: National Poetry Press,
Box 2I8, Agouia,
Ca. 91301
Applications will be accepted for 3 year
and 2 year US Army Scholarships through 
February 15. The Army scholarship pays 
full tuition plus books and fees and pro
vides a stipend of $100 per month. A ser
vice obligation is incurred. For additional 
details see Major Rivers in Gym 203 or 
call 578-2196.
TARTAN STAFFERS
DO IT
ALL WEEKEND!!
Become a part of the TARTAN.
Call 578-2111, or leave a note at the 
Skibo Info Desk.

---------------------------------------------------

upcoming events
a.IA  
JANUARY 25 at 5:45, 9,12:15 
LAWRENCE OF ARABIA, Admission .75 
with ID/$1 without.
This spectacular epic is a classic drama 
and winner of seven academy awards in
cluding Best Picture. The extraordinary 
performances by Peter O Toole, Omar 
Sharif, Alec Guiness, Anthony Quinn and 
Jade Hawkins are filmed entirely on loca
tion under the direction of David Lean.
JANUARY 26 at 6, 8, 10,12
THE CHEAP DETECTIVE, admission $1
with ID/$1.25 without.
Peter Falk stars in Neil Simons comic 
take-off of the old Bogart thrillers Casa
blanca and The Maltese Falcon.
AB's Coffeehouse Committee will 
present Jim Corr and Friends on January 
26 at 9:30 PM in the Whercett Room. Jim 
Corr is a native Irishman, and through his 
music he provides audiences with insight 
into Irish traditions and history. Accompa
nying Jim will be Bob Hutchinson, a 
dulcimer artist, Don Polito playing an 
upright bass, and Richard Salsgiver, 
Salty" a jazz, folk, and classical guitarist. 
Coffeehouse is free and open to the 
campus community. Refreshmants will be 
served.theater...
The Pittsburgh Playhouse will present 
Neil Simons Last of the Red Hot Lovers 
opening January 18. For more information 
call 621-4445.
CMU's Young Playwrights Series 
continues with Cowboy Mouth (by Sam 
Shepard and Patti Smith) and Angel Bobby 
(created by CMUs Hugh Esten) two 
Rockn 11011 dramas to be presented 
January 30 and 31 at 8PM in the Theatre 
Express Building 4615 Baum Blvd. For 
further information call 578-2407.
1620 ,90More19M0
INCORPORATED
CALCULATOR
SAVINGS
3DAYSONLY'
TI-25
LIST LIST $3295 
NOW
from Texas 
Instruments
SCIENTIFIC
SR 59 .................. . . $239.00
SR58...................___$99.88
SR57...................___$47.88
SR55...................___$42.88
PC100 .................. . . $149.95
BUSINESS
MBA...................___$59.88
Bus. Anal............___$24.88
Bus. Anal. 2 . . .___$39.99
All other model 
in stock at disc.
PHILIP S. WIENER 
229 ATWOOD ST., PGH., PA 15213
6S3-0313 FREE PARKING
Pittsburgh Public Theatre will present 
Vanities and Ashes from January 25 thru 
March 4. For reservations and more infor
mation call 765-3400.
Theatre Express will present Assassins 
January 18, 19, 20, 21, 25, 26, 27, and 28 
and February 1, 2, 3, 4, 8, 9, 10 and 11. 
Curtain times are Thursdays, Fridays and 
Saturdays at 8:30 PM and Sunday matinees 
at 2 PM. For reservations call 621-5454.
cinema...
SDC will present on January 27 :
Chinatown at 6:30, 9 and 11:30 PM
Director Roman Polanski. Jack Nichol
son, Faye Dunaway, John Huston. This 
film is one of the most meticulously craft
ed Hollywood films in many years. Ten 
academy award nominations and some 
good crunchin make this film a must.- 
Football Monthly. Admission is .50 with 
ID/$1 without.
Robert Nelson, a visiting filmmaker will 
present and discuss his new film Suite 
California Stops and Passes, Parts I and II 
on January 23 at 8 PM in the Museum of 
Art Theatre. Admission is $1.
A Child Is Waiting by John Cassavetes 
will be shown on January 25 at 8 PM in 
the Carnegie Lecture Hall. Admission is
$1.
The 1933 version of King Kong will be 
shown on January 27 at 2:30 PM in the 
Museum of Art Theatre. Admission is $1.
Swing Time, with Astaire and Rogers, 
and The Rink by Charlie Chaplin can be 
seen on January 28 at 7:30 PM in the 
Carnegie Lecture Hall. Admission is $1.
The Pittsburgh Playhouse film repertory 
will feature this week: January 23, The 
Last Waltz; January 24, The Pink Panther 
Strikes Again ; January 25, Revenge Of the 
Pink Panther; January 26, Night At the 
Opera; January 27, Three Women; Janu
ary 28, West Side Story ; and January 29, 
The Ruling Class. All seats are $2 with 
two showing nightly at 7:30 and 9:30 PM. 
For more information call 621-4445.
The City of Pittsburgh Department of 
Parks and Recreation will present Meet 
John Doe on January 25 at the Schenely 
Park Ice Rink, For more information call 
255-2354.music...
CMUs Philharmonic will present a con
cert on January 26 at 8 PM in Carnegie Music Hall. The program will be conducted by 
Istvan Jaray and will feature The Birds by 
Respighi, Rapsodie Espagnole by Ravel, 
and Beethovens Symphony No. 5. The 
concert is free and open to the public.
CMUs department of music will preent a faculty recital by Richard Franklin 
on January 28 at 8 PM in Mellon Institute 
auditorium, Oakland. The program will in
clude Bachs Suite for Lute in A Minor, 
Duartes Variations on a Catalan Folk 
Song, and Manuel Ponce's Sonatina 
Meridional. Franklin will also present 
La Maja da Goya, by Granados, Sevilla 
by Isaac Albeniz, and two etudes by 
Villa-Lobos. The recital is free and open to 
the public.
CMU and Pittsburgh Flute Club will 
present a Flute Recital with Wendy Webb, 
Flutist on February 11 at 8 PM in the Alum
ni Concert Hall. This recital is free and op
en to the public.
The CMU chapter of the Music Educa
tors National Conference has people avail
able for giving private instrumental and 
voice lessons. For more information, write 
to MENC, c/o Music Dept., CMU, Pgh., * 
15213, or call 521-0420 after 6 PM.
Chuck Berry, will appear in concert at 
Allegheny College on February 2 at 10 PM 
in the Campus Center Auditorium. Tickets 
are $7 on sale at National Record Marts.
Sha Na Na will perform at the 
Stanley Theatre on February 16 and 17. 
For ticket information call 281- 3700.
Chicago will be presented at the Stanley 
Theatre on February 8,9, and 10. Tickets 
range from $6 to $12 and are available at the 
Stanley Box Office, Kaufmanns, National 
Record Marts or by calling 261-2133.
Dede Ondishko and Edmund McKenna 
will perform solo works of Brahms, Chopin, 
Copland and Schumann. Also included 
on the program will be duets of Brahms 
and Faure performed by Terry McLane/ 
Marge Chen and Daniel Dosch/John Fer
guson. This concert will take place on 
February 2nd in Alumni Concert Hall 
at 8 PM. The public is cordially invited. 
A reception will follow the concert.art...
The Pittsburgh Print Group will present 
its juried Winter Show of members prints 
at the Arts and Crafts Center, Fifth and 
Shady Avenues, from January 27 - Febru
ary 18, 1979. The exhibit is free and open 
to the public. For more information call 
Debbie Turici at 761-0439.
You are cordially invited 
to a presentation 
on the Navys officer programs
given by 
Ens. Ian Stenning 
(CMUB.S., ME78)
Camegie-Mellon juniors & seniors 
of all academic disciplines are 
welcome
February 1 at 7:30p.m. in 
Room 12, Skibo 
Refreshments Served
Bunny Goldmans Paper Images will be 
on display in the Entrance Gallery, Mu
seum of Art, Carnegie Institute from No
vember 30 thru January 28. Hours are 
Tuesday thru Saturday 10 AM to 5 PM and 
Sundays 1 to 6 PM.
Reflections from the Third Day-Photo
graphic Revelations of Plant Designs will 
be on display from November 20 thru Feb
ruary 16 in the Penthouse of Hunt Library. 
The exhibition can be viewed free of 
charge, Monday thru Friday, from 9 AM 
to 5 PM.
The collection of Dr. and Mrs 
Raymond Goldblum will be on display in 
Gallery D, Museum of Art, Carnegie In
stitute from January 25 thru March 11 
Museum hours are Tuesday thru Saturday 
10 AM to 5 PM and Sundays 1 to 6 PM.
Winning photos in the Natural World 
Photo Contest will be on display in the 
Changing Exhibits Gallery of Carnegie Mu
seum of Natural History. The exhibit will 
remain through March 18.
Debra Lynn Turici is exibiting her onewoman art show, Prints Above Pittsburgh, 
at the Cliffside Restaurant, 1208 Grand
view Avenue, Mt. Washington, now thru 
January 28. The exibit is free and open to 
the public. A wide variety of lithographs, 
silkscreen, relief, and collagraph prints will 
be on display. For more information call 
761-0439.
Q. Eddy, R. Cassetti, D. Lucas and M. 
Caparosa will exhibit graphics, industrial 
designs and illustrations at Forbes Street . 
Gallery from January 23 thru 28. Gallery 
times are Wednesday thru Sunday 12 to 4 
PM and Tuesday thru Thurday 7 to 9 PM.
Lutheran Brotherhoods Traveling Art 
Gallery No. 7 is on display at the Lutheran 
University Center, 4515 Forbes Ave., Oak
land. The exhibit is free and open to the 
public Monday thru Friday from 9 AM 
until 5 PM. It will be on display thru 
January 29.6*bc...
Liberace will entertain at Heinz Hall for 
9 shows, January 29 through February 4, 
joined by The Magi Circus of Tiawan, Mar
co Valenti, Steve Bor and Dancing Water. 
Performances will be at 7:30 PM. Matinees 
on Saturday and Sunday will be at 2:30 
PM. Tickets range from $11.50 to $6.50 and 
are on sale at Heinz Hall, Kaufmanns and 
Gimbels.
Siobhan McKenna will appear in a pro
gram, The Brandy Tree, which is a reading 
from Irish writers on February 23 at 8 PM 
in the Carnegie Music Hall. Tickets are $4, 
$6, $7.50 and $9, available from the Inter
national Poetry Forum.
The Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre will pre
sent Pas de Dix, Othello and Etudes on 
Jafiuary 28 at 2:30 PM. For tickets call 
281-0360.
There will be a Square Dance, Friday 
January 26 at 8PM in the Pitt Student 
Union Ballroom. There will be apple cider 
and an open stage for musicians. Admission 
price is $2.00. Music will be provided by 
Ron Buchanan and Sw ingin on the Gate 
Sponsored by the Pitt Folk Arts Club.
The next Silhouette lecture-luncheon 
sponsored by the Women's Association 
of the Pittsburgh Symphony will take 
place in Heinz Hall on February 8 
beginning at 11 AM. Dr. Joseph Wilcox, 
chairman of theory and composition 
at Duquesne Universitys School of Music, 
will speak on various aspects of the 
Pittsburgh Symphony's upcoming 
February 8, 9, 10 concerts which will 
feature Benjamin Brittens ballet music 
for The Prince of the Pagodas and Carl 
Orffs Carmina Burana. Kaufmanns will 
stage a mini fashion show during the 
luncheon. Further information may be 
obtained by phoning 281-6156.
