No longer a promise, but rather^reajity.
WRCT, 88.3 FM, Finally!
I
. photo by R od Reilly
WRCT erects long awaited antenna; FM conversion 
completed.AB Trips to Texas
by Tom Kendig
Five members of the Activities Board, 
along with Bob McCurdy, the advisor to 
^Student Activities, attended the annual 
National Entertainment Conference (NEC) 
in Houston, Texas. The Conference was 
held from February 2-6, and the trip cost 
$1,200 for the C-MU delegation.
McCurdy is on the Board of Directors at 
present, and is a former director of the 
NEC.
According to the NEC newsletter, the 
^organization was founded to enable stu
dents and faculty on various campuses to 
share information about programming, es
tablishing training programs and coopera
tive programming.
The conference consists of program ses
sions and workshops in such areas as films, 
coffeehouses, lectures, classical produc
tions, video, concerts, and more.0 Agents handling many major performers 
and films were present and available for 
bookings. Many new performers who were 
not previously available to colleges or who 
are just rising in popularity were also show
cased.
Rick Wertheimer went representing 
concerts. He met many of the agents per
sonally that he had previously only talked0 to over the phone and also learned many of 
the ropes of the booking business as well as 
making some valuable contacts. As Mr. 
Werthheimer Put it increased my re
continued on p. 8
by Debbie Siegel
On March 1, eighteen years after the 
original proposal, WRCT will convert to 
FM.
The change will take place during the 
broadcast of a TGIF. At 4:30, WRCT will 
begin live AM coverage of a TGIF featuring 
the Rhythm Kings. At 5:00, the official 
transformation to FM will take place. 
President Cyert will speak briefly on the 
air, and then broadcasting of the TGIF will 
continue at 88.3 on the FM dial.
The birth of WRCT-FM will be further 
celebrated on Saturday with programming 
all day devoted to the best music of the 
last ten years. The WRCT staff has picked 
out the most outstanding thirty-five groups 
from the decade. The only break that day 
in continuous music will be from 3:00 to 
5:00 p.m. when the CMU hockey teams
game against Duquesne will be broadcast. 
The campus is also invited to wander down 
to Room 48 any time and inspect the 
facilities.
The first public mention of a plan to 
convert WRCT to FM was in the February 
7, 1956 Tartan. A number of delays and 
reschedulings have occurred since then. 
Frank Napoli, General Manager of WRCT, 
explained that the most recent delays 
resulted from the fact that Physical Plant 
was unable to install the 300 pound con
crete antenna base as early as was antici
pated. The conversion was originally 
scheduled for February 1. The base was 
installed on February 8.
Earle Stockwell from Operations 
deserves a note of thanks, said Napoli. 
Weve been going through him and hes 
bent over backwards to help. Stockwell, 
Physical Plants Electrical Engineer, super
vised the installation of the base.
Along with this help in installation, the 
University is investing nearly $5000 in 
equipment and installation costs.
President Cyert has shown support in 
little ways, so that we know he is behind 
us, continued Frank.
The stations new broadcasting range 
will extend from three to five miles. WRCT 
hopes that this will enable them to reach a 
majority of students who live off-campus.
Posters informing the public of the FM 
station will be placed in stores in Oakland, 
Squirrel Hill, and Shadyside.
As far as actual operation changes, 
they will be minimal. More people will be 
listening. The biggest change in program
ming will be the absence of CLEM. CLEM 
is an achronim for Carnegies Last Engin
eering Marvel. The automated system encontinued on p. 5m tartan
February 19, 1974 Volume 74 Number 17
First Carnegie Grant Awarded
Proposals by David E. Wojick, Assistant 
Professor of History, and a joint team from 
GSIA and the English Department have 
received the first grants in the program 
to encourage educational innovation at 
CMU, President Cyert announced today.
A portion of the funds recently given to 
CMU by the Carnegie Corporation will 
support the effort of Professor Wojick to 
develop issue analysis, a technique that 
can be used by students to examine public 
policy debates and scientific controversies 
in an orderly fashion. Issue analysis has 
been taught by Professor Wojick on an 
experimental basis for several terms. The 
grant will be used to improve the technique 
as a learning tool, and to test its appli
cability to a wider range of learning 
situations. We help students at CMU 
acquire many powerful techniques for 
solving structured, quantitative problems in 
engineering and science, observed 
President Cyert. Professor Wojicks pro
ject is an interesting experiment in offering 
them an additional tool for approaching 
relatively unstructured social and human 
problems.
The second grant of the educational 
innovation funds will train GSIA students 
in writing technical reports, at the same 
time providing English students in the 
technical writing major with important 
editorial skills. Under the plan, which is 
directed by Ms. Gail McGuire, reports 
written by GSIA students as regular course 
assignments are reviewed by interns in the 
technical writing major, returned with 
editorial comments, and discussed with 
their authors. The grant will also support 
exploration of the possible extension of 
the plan, or variants of it, to other parts of 
CMU. -
In announcing the grants, the grant 
committee commented that it is now 
beginning to receive interesting proposals 
from almost all parts of the campus. The 
intitial proposals, including the two now 
approved for support, were projects that 
had already been conceived when the 
Carnegie Funds were received. The new 
funds will permit them to be pursued more
On Campus Marketplace:
vigorously than would otherwise have been 
possible. The grant committee noted that 
both the issue analysis and the writing 
project were focussed on the skills of 
students, and particularly their skills of 
self-education. They illustrate the sound 
principle that improvement in education 
depends directly on what students do, only 
indirectly on teachers.
ENTROPY OPENED
Entropy: the degree of disorder in a system
After a three week delay because of the 
truckers strike, Entropy has opened its 
doors to the C-MU community. The stu
dent store is located in the hallway conphoto by Ed Levine
Tom Janicki, store manager, and Barbara Linball, 
assistant manager, organizing Entropy.
necting the Ballroom and the Wherret 
Room in Skibo. Its hours are Sunday 
through Friday, 11 a.m. through 10 p.m., 
and Saturday, 12 through 8 p.m.
Among the services offered the students, 
faculty and staff of the university is check 
cashing. This service will supplement the 
already existing service offered by the 
cashiers office during the week and will 
also be available during the weekend, offer
ing the student a previously unavailable 
service.
The inventory of the store includes a 
complete drug line, cigarettes, candy, 
magazines, soda, panty hose, pens, station
ary, laundry tickets, postage stamps, deter
gent, contraceptives, snacks, tee shirts, 
greeting cards, and paperback books. Its 
purpose is to provide the C-MU community 
with an on-campus discount establishment 
where one can buy frequently needed 
items.
Tom Janicki, store manager, invites all 
the customers of Entropy to give the clerks 
any suggestions on how to better run the 
store or other items that should be 
-stocked. -

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 19, 1974
editors note
"At Carnegie-Mellon University a student does not have to be of varsity 
caliber to gain the benefits of participation in athletic competition. The 
excellent intramural program sponsored by the University and adminis
tered by an Intramural Board, composed of students, has proved itself 
over the years as a valuable means for students to continue their self
development, to achieve thorough recreation, and to provide balance to 
their days. 
Dean Swank, in the Intramural Activities pamphlet
It has gotten to the point where we have decided to eliminate the 
awards for the championship teams for the 1974-75 season. 
I.M. Director Earl Birdy, quoted in the Sports section of this weeks Tartan
Estimates vary slightly, but it's dear that over 50% of the C-MU 
student body take part in C-MUs 32 intramural sports. Possibly 200 take 
part in the 10 varsity sports, and Pittsburgh s pollution count will drop to 
zero long before sizeable crowds start coming to see them.
The University, or more specifically, Dean Swank, allocates ten times 
as much money to Varsity sports as to Intramural s.
Students here deserve better. The benefits of intramurals to the campus 
community in terms of morale, health and good old-fashioned fun, are 
obviously much more impressive than those of the Varsity program. The 
Varsity wrestling team recently disbanded in.embarrassment. What pur
pose does this serve anyone?
It is true thpt the Alumni would be disturbed by a discontinuation of 
some or all of the Varsity sports. The result of that would be a slight 
cutback of Alumni interest, most likely in terms of money. This brings up 
my favorite question: could the university be shortchanging students 
because of their respect for cold hard cash?If not, why are you people up 
there doing this to us?
There wont be any trophies next year for I.M. championship teams. 
This has gone far enough. Its about time C-MUs valuable and studentsupported /. M. program stopped running a poor second to our third-rate 
Intercollegiate program. If you agree, drop a line or a phone call to Dean 
Swank in 206 Warner Hall, Extension 215 or 216.
Rob Simbeck News Editor
As a move to conserve both financial and environmental facilities, the 
TARTAN has cut back its weekly circulation from 5500 to 4500 copies. 
Please cooperate by taking only one copy.
Notice to all readers and advertisers: the TARTAN will not be printed 
next week due to the February break. The next issue is March 5.
letters:
The following is an open letter to Stu
dent Government from the Executive 
Board of the Activities Board.
As you know, the Activities Boards 
1974-75 budget came up for review 
Tuesday, February 12, 1974 before the 
Finance Committee. After an exhausting 
hour of pointless discussion, little of which 
concerned the budget under review, the 
Activities Board was asked to return to 
Monday afternoon to continue said 
discussion. The Executive Board considers 
it futile to attend this meeting unless the 
following problems are allievated:
1) This year there is no clear policy for 
the allocation of funds. And example of 
this is that the Latin American Club was 
led to believe that they may receive monies 
from the Programming Fund for the pur
pose of free cultural programming. How
ever, the Activities Board, the main pro
gramming organization on campus was told 
that students should pay for what they 
wanted. This is an obvious contradiction of 
policy.
2) Certain members of the finance 
committee are attempting to initiate the 
optional graduate fee proposal, which is 
currently under study in Senate. We feel 
that these members of the committee are 
using budget reductions as a means of 
realizing their proposal.
3) Some members of the finance 
committee are only representing their 
individual desires and not that of their con
stituencies.
4) We also feel that parlimentary pro
cedure should be implemented during the 
meeting.
We are hoping that these problems will 
be alleviated so that we can continue 
intelligent discussion on our budget.
The Executive Board of 
The Activities Board
Dear Tartan Staff,
anticipation. The mother announced to the 
office in general that her daughter was 
interested in coming to school at Carnegie, 
in the Humanities College. The daughter . 
blushed at her mothers announcement. I 
had to stare. Its been years since Ive seen 
such innocence. 1 could almost see little^ 
tufts of wool creeping out from under their 
clothes. Ah, what a pity, I said to myself. 
They dream of a college of Humanities 
where the daughter can have a unique 
growing experience in a stimulating en
vironment. They dream of her future; 
reading the great literature of all time, 
reading the history of our civilization and 
of other civilizations, being exposed to the ^ 
great psychologists of the twentieth 
century, learning philosophy, sociology, 
economics, languages, cultures, politics, 
and the rest. That was my dream too when 
I came here. And only inspite of the best 
efforts on the part of the College have I 
achieved my goals. So, I wanted to tell this 
little girl and her little mother the truth 
about the College of Humanities and Social % 
Sciences. What is the truth, I wondered. 
How can I put it into a few powerful 
words. How about: Expensive Lie.
Expensive-yes - but we all knew the price 
and our bourgeois parents were prepared to 
pay that price. The Goods; a well rounded 
liberal arts education. Theres the rub. 
Thousands of dollars have been shelled out 
by unsuspecting parents and students with f 
the trust that a well rounded liberal arts 
education was available at Carnegie-Mellon 
University. I have to laugh. Hah! What a 
joke ... a good joke on us.
So there the girl and her mother were, 
ripe for the Word. Would I give it to them. 
Would I disturb their moment of blissful 
innocence. Naw. Let them buy the 
expensive lie. Let the poor girl discover it^ 
for herself, in time. Thats the most 
valuable lesson the University is capable of 
giving her. Yes, here she can learn first 
hand about money and hypocrisy. Thats a 
good, well rounded education.
Peace and Love, 
Stephen Hamm 
Gass of 74
|ffi| tartan
News Editor: Rob Simbeck
Features Editor: Shelley Burhans 
Entertainment Editor: Susan Klein
Reporters: Sandy Como, John Craun, Thomas 
Kendig, Stephen Saunders, Tom Schwartz, Kevin 
Turcotte, Chip Yeager, Jan Lindberg, Mike 
Krivda Steve Correll
Entertainment: Stacey Kimbell, Mark Chimsky, 
Paul Barry
Entertainment Artist: Richard Laeton
Sports; Roger Geddes, Glenn Campbell, Leslie 
Allen, Mary Kay Burak, Mary Jo Chabala, Jim 
Litsas, Mike Pochan, Mark Schiffman
Editor-in-Chief: Christine Infante 
Managing Editor: Gary Singer 
Business Manager: Lester Nathan
Sports Editor: Jeff Englund 
Photography Editors: Ed Levine '
Elliot Arons
Head Reporter: Debbie Siegel
Photographers: Bruce Edelston, Ellen Eddy,
ChrisFarland, Nick Lardas, Elliot Popowitz, Rod 
Reilly, John Rose, Frederick Shamlian, John 
Shettel, Courtney Larson, Bryan Smith, Frank 
Stein, RicWerme
Layout: Louise LoPinto
Cartoonists: Ron Wiggins, Kitty Fischer
Copy: Mina Gerall, Sandy Preuhs, Cathy
Kjnneavy * - *
The Editorial Board of the TARTAN reserves the right to edit or withhold any copy that it 
considers unfit for publication. Published every Tuesday during the academic year by the student 
government of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Deadlines are 12 noon 
for announcements, classified ads and letters to the editor and 5:00 pm. for articles and display ads 
on the Wednesday preceeding the Tuesday of publication. Editorial and Business offices are located 
in Skibo 50. Telephone (412; 682-4557 or campus extension 656.  ' 1
Now that our antenna is up over Skibo, 
I feel it is time for me to convey the 
personal thanks that our AM status pre
vented me from expressing. The staff of 
the Tartan was tremendously cooperative, 
patient and understanding throughout the 
whole two year ordeal.
I hope that the FM conversion will mark 
a continuation and augmentation of col
laboration and cooperation between the 
two media magnate maisons of CarnegieMellon University.
WRCT-AM and WRCTFM are both 
very grateful.
Wishing you lots of mazel, 
.Arnie Karr 
. Program Director 
WRCT-FM
Editor:
Yesterday I was up in the English De
partment office sweating over a mal
functioning ditto machine, and feeling 
sorry'that three or four other poeple who 
wanted to use the machine had to wait 
around while i tinkered with it, when I saw 
whai had to be an apparition. A young girl 
of maybe sixteen or seventeen came into 
the office with her mother. The two of 
them were swelled up with excitement and
Editor:
Students are still clinging to the college 
breast to nurture both body and spirit, (see 
recent discussions of housing, food service, 
activities, feeing, and vacation scheduling). 
They must be weaned, and this will be best 
accomplished by an analogous process; the 
in loco parentis role of college organi
zations must be eliminated.
During the late sixties, students worked 
to remove the college from the business of 
regulating personal affairs. The next step is 
to abandon the college community 
fantasy which remains.
The utopian ideal of the college 
community was born of the legitimate 
shared interests of college students and 
faculty combined with an emotional ^ 
attachment to the ivory tower image of 
academia. Many students, intrigued with 
the romance of cloistered study and dis
mayed with the assumed mundanity of 
secular life, found the appeal very strong. 
The result was a painful schism between 
student and the external (by default) 
community; this schism was. often inter
nalized by both parties. Furthermore, both^ 
groups were deprived of a general inter
change of ideas and energy. If a student is 
considered a full-fledged citizen of a 
continued on p. 7

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, February 19, 1974Page 3
news comment
President Cyerts Comments
The Other Tuesday
I would like to compliment the Student 
Activities Board for the  every other Tues
day afternoon luncheon forum. The idea 
is a good one and should increase com
munication among groups that need to be 
communicating. I have felt the need of 
more opportunities for direct communica
tion with students since my question 
period on the campus radio was suspended. 
I understand that the station is expected to 
begin FM broadcasting on March 1. I will 
be on the air that day, and I plan to start a 
regular radio program on March 5 at six 
oclock.
The Carnegie Corporation Grant, about 
which I am extremely enthusiastic, will 
enable the internal foundation committee 
to make the first grants for educational 
innovation effective February 1. Elsewhere 
in the newspaper there should be an an
nouncement of the first grants. We have 
been pleased at the number of proposals 
already submitted. Since faculty had been 
thinking about such projects previously, it 
is understandable that the earliest pro
posals have come from faculty. But from 
conversations with students I feel sure that 
in time we will get some good proposals 
from students. Besides publishing the 
guildelines for proposals, at the last meet
ing of the Student Policy Committee I 
urged members to encourage students to 
make proposals. My hope is that the stu
dent body, and especially the good 
students, will welcome the opportunity to 
present proposals for improving the edu
cational process.
From time to time in my conversations 
with students I have discussed the whole 
question of how the school is represented 
to incoming students in the most accurate 
way possible. It is obviously difficult in a 
catalogue description to give the whole 
flavor of a department. You may be in
terested to know that each department 
writes its own description; there is no 
attempt at some overall administration 
line. Currently a new catalogue is in pro
cess, and I have asked Bill Elliott, the Di 
rector of Admissions, to try out the text 
on a sample of students to see whether 
they think the description is giving an 
honest picture of a department. Obviously, 
it is in the interest of each department to 
make an honest description since this is the 
only way to get the kinds of students it 
wants. Thus, if a department is only quan
titatively oriented, it would be foolish not 
to say this in the description. Students 
interested only in the non-quantitative 
aspects of a, department would do very 
little good for the department if they en
rolled in it, and they would be disappoint
ed in its offerings. We are, however, trying 
to get more non-quantitative options in the 
social science departments because, while 
most of us feel that the future for graduate 
work lies in being quantitative, there clear
ly are also opportunities in both social re
lations and economics for people who are 
not trained to a quantitative approach. 
Most broadly trained and competent pro
fessionals are rarely single-minded about 
methodology, even though to the student 
they may seem to be. For example, despite 
the seemingly quantitative orientation of
the internal foundation, the first two proppsals financed were both non-quanti
tative. I should also point out to those who 
have not read the guidelines carefully, that 
the principal investigator of each proposal 
accepted will be appointed to an advisory 
committee to the board and will have the 
opportunity to read proposals and make 
recommendations on them. This device en
sures a broad representation of the C-MU 
community in the ultimate dispensing of 
the funds.
I would also like to say a few words 
about the tenure process at this University. 
The tenure procedures are, I believe, excell
ent ones. Reviews are made at depart
mental, college, and university levels in 
order to give a large number of different 
people the opportunity to review nomina
tions and give added insurance that a rea
sonable process is followed. Ultimately, 
however, somebody has to make a 
decision. Recommendations for tenure 
appointments in their colleges are made to 
me by each of the provosts. I, of course, 
take their recommendations very seriously. 
They also point out to me those decisions 
about which there are questions. I have 
then followed the policy of making some 
investigation of my own. I have not hesi
tated to reverse a recommendation on the 
basis of my own investigation. In addition, 
this year I went over all the proposed de
cisions with the five deans and two pro
vosts and got their reactions before making 
the decision final. I feel the set of decisions 
is a good one. I have been involved in such 
decisions for approximately twenty years 
of my academic career, but I recognize that 
I can lay no claim to being infallible. I have 
tried to back up my own competence with 
the considered judgments of the pro
fessional peers and professional leaders of 
the fields involved in the tefture decision, 
and I have depended heavily on a pyramid 
of reviews of each case designed to elimin
ate the possibility that politics or person
alities can determine the outcome and to 
achieve good judgment. One of the added 
difficulties this year is that CarnegieMellon, like other private universities, 
cannot afford to make tenure commit
ments beyond its financial capacity to 
honor them in the future, nor can it risk 
having its academic quality become static 
because an over-tenured department loses 
the benefit gained by the influx of newly 
trained scholars, or of those responsible for 
new developments in their fields. We want 
to follow a policy that will maintain the 
opportunity to add outstanding people to 
our faculty in the future. We do not have a 
quota system in any sense; we have been 
developing some guidelines and I hope to 
speak to the faculty about them in the near 
future.
I obviously cannot discuss a decision on 
a particular faculty member in any public 
forum, nor will I discuss the reasons for 
such decisions with students. We are 
making decisions that affect peoples 
careers, and the reasons for these decisions 
are not something that should be widely or 
loosely discussed. In the case of one de
cision that is controversial, I have offered 
to speak to the department concerned m
company with the appropriate provost. I 
would also make myself available to the 
individual affected in any of these de
cisions, if that were desired by the indi
vidual.
I am pleased that students care enough 
about particular decisions to write letters 
to the school newspaper. I believe they 
care deeply about the quality of the 
faculty, that they are seeking excellence in 
their educational experience, and that they 
have developed high humane values in their 
concern for individuals whose contacts 
with them have enriched their lives.
Richard M. Cyert
I Leexi\e\ this Fro 
Woods
Call for Action
Ever try holding a phone in one hand, 
and a kids sliced-up finger togther with the 
other, while trying to convince a lady to 
dispatch an ambulance without first having 
to tell her everything including what color 
socks youre wearing? If not, then you 
obviously havent had to call the C-MU 
security desk recently.
Once again, the amazing actions of our 
dazzling walkie-talkie patrol have managed 
to astonish me. The series of events that 
have involved our Security force during the 
course of the last several weeks can be 
described as nothing other than unpro
fessional. Foremost, there was the minor 
matter of $2500 worth of television sets 
which were removed in a leisurely fashion 
from the dorms over the space of some two 
hours.
As if the actual theft werent enough, 
the officer who eventually responded to 
the call totally confused the witness by 
informing him that the 7 digit license 
number he claimed to have seen was im
possible, since temporary Pa. tags only 
have 6 digits, starting with a T. He con
vinced the witness to think of possible 6 
digit variations. For the record, temporary 
Pa. tags have contained 7 digits for almost 
a year.
It is also interesting to note that 
approximately 14 months ago, an official 
request was made to Ron Taylor to hook 
up the TV sets to the security office alarm 
board; a request that was refused since 
Taylor didnt think his men should have 
to be bothered responding to a potential 
fake alarm. (Even after the current theft, 
Mr. Taylor still refuses to hook the TV sets 
to the security office alarm board.)
Moving to the events of Monday, 
February 11, we once again witness the 
campus protectors in action. During the 
course of this night, a snowball battle in 
the vicinity of Scobell Hall developed into 
a fire extinguisher fight. Security was 
notified immediately upon the discharge of 
the first extinguisher, but chose to take 15 
minutes to respond. The result of this 
delayed response left three fire extinguish
ers discharged four more totally missing, 
and several windows broken. Conse
quently, Scobell Hall is presently left with
out fire protection equipment.
The event that finally annoyed me to 
the point of submitting this commentary 
revolves around the fact that security 
placed a no permit parking ticket upon my 
vehicle, despite the fact that it clearly dis
played a valid permit to park in that area, 
and has been parked in that very same 
space for this entire school year. Upon 
politely going to the security office to in
form them of the mistake, I was greeted 
with the attitude that they were doing me 
a big favor to correct their mistake. Never 
once was an apology made for my incon
venience. It was this very same vehicle 
which they ticketed, that twice this year 
has been used to jump-start the Security 
ambulance, when its own battery was in
adequate to do so. (One of these incidents 
occured during a medical emergency in 
Donner Hall, when the officer shut off the 
engine, but left all 20 flashing lights turned 
on. Without the engine running, the lights 
quickly drained the battery. It is quite 
fortunate that it was not a life or death 
emergency.)
I just want to clarify the fact that Im 
not criticizing individual members of the 
security force. Most of the men are the 
nicest guys youd ever want to meet. But 
an organization is only as good as the 
leadership that backs it; and our security 
force obviously displays inadequate leader
ship. According to numerous comments of 
actual officers on the force, they dont feel 
in the least that Ron Taylor is behind them 
in their actions. How can a group of men 
be expected to act professionally, when 
there is no feeling of team spirit among its 
members? When there exists disillusion
ment with leadership, then any organi
zation begins to crumble. Unfortunately, 
we all have to count upon this organization 
daily, for the very literal protection of our 
lives.
It is a sad comment, but unless Security 
cleans up its act, there would often seem to 
be no better response obtained by calling
683-7717, than its incorrectly listed 
counterpart in the C-book.
Bob Lmn

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 19, 1974
announcements
Headache? Take asprin. Tension? Listen to
Perspective: CMU, an informative interview 
with University of Pittsburgh psychologist, 
Dr. D. Grimm about the methodology of 
autogenetic training, the thinking man's 
ranscendental meditation. Wednesday, 
February 20 at 6:30 pm. on WRCT. Rejroadcast Saturday, February 23 at 8 pm.
Acting Students: need portfolios,
omposites, etc. for summer work or now? 
all 884-2400. Professional, terrific rates, 
uality work.
or sale: A.R. amplifier, 6 months old. 50
atts R MS per channel into 8 ohms with 
ise. $180. Call 683-7238, 6-10 pm.
WENS is sponsoring a Blood Drive on
jmpus on March 13. Sign-up February 20 
) donate your blood, all day in Baker 
all.
chard L. Thornburg, Esq., U.S. Attorney
>r the Western District of Pennsylvania
II be speaking at CMU on March 5. The 
ture will take place at 4:00 pm. in the
SI A Auditorium.
Faculty-Student Sabbath will be held at
int Park College on Friday,;//February 22 
the Faculty Dining Room. "An Inter 
th Dialogue will be held at 3:30 pm. 
th Rabbi Phillip Sigal, Director, B'nai 
;th Hillel-Jewish university Center, and 
ther Tony Yester, Catholic Chaplain, 
int Park College. Professor Nathan Fire>ne, Point Park College will be moderaWorship will follow at 4:45 pm. All 
idents and faculty are welcome. It is 
:nsored by B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish 
iversity Center.
fessor Steven Hess, Pitt, will speak on
vanish Ballad Traditions and the SepharJews on Monday, February 25, in the 
tinuing Lunch and Lecture Series, 
wish Themes in World Literature. It is 
j at noon in the Hillel Library, 3rd 
)r, Y-IKC on Beliefield. Lunch is $1.00 
ust come for discussion. It is sponsored 
B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish University 
ter.
3 Tel Aviv is held every Monday
-ugh Thursday from 11:30-1 pm. Lunch 
erved and Thursday- is deli day. Old 
/ies are shown every Tuesday. It is held 
the Hillel Dining Room, 3rd floor, 
<C across from Heinz Chapel and is 
isored by B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish 
/ersity Center.
ali and Folk Dancing is held every
iday at 7:30 pm. in the Hillel Lounge, 
floor, Y-IKC on Bellefield. It is free 
sponsored by B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish 
yersity Center.
gregation Dor Hadash (Reconstructionjcated in the Hebrew Institute of Pittsjh at the corner of Forbes and Denniswili hold Shabat Evening services 
lay, February 22 in the Wolk Chapel of 
Hebrew Institute at 8:30 pm. The dision following the service, "A First 
d Impression of Soviet Jewry will be 
by Albert Hochhauser who spent 3 
ks in the Soviet Union during the Yom 
;ur War. He met with many Soviet and* 
ish activists and learned from first hand 
junters of the plight of the Soviet Jews 
the rebirth of Judaism in the Soviet 
)n.
The Activities Board, CMAP, and the
Department of Drama will be presenting 
the Alvin Ailey City Center Dance Theatre 
in a Lecture-Demonstration on Thursday, 
March 7. It sill take place in the CMU 
gymnasium, and there is no admission 
charge.
Did you see the movie Marjoe? Want to see
him in person? He will be lecturing on 
March 11 at 8 pm. in Carnegie Music Hall. 
Tickets are free at Skibo I nformation Desk. 
Open to the campus community. 
Sponsored by the Activities Board.
Interested in films? Help plan next years
film series. Come to the Activities Board 
Film Committee meeting at 7:00 on Febru
ary 21st in Skibo room 11. New members 
welcome. Anyone interested who cannot 
attend please leave a message for Lorraine 
at the Skibo Information Desk.
Students seeking scholarships should plan
to take the Air Force Officer Qualifying 
Test on Saturday, February 23rd at 221 
Langley Hall on the Pitt campus. The test 
will start at 8:15 a.m. and is a necessary 
step for sophomores and above who are 
considering application for the Air Force 
or ROTC program. Students assume no ob
ligation for taking the test. Reservations 
may be made by contacting Captain James 
Van Lare, Room 438 Cathedral or by 
calling 624-6397 or 6398.
Spring Carnival needs volunteers. Chair
persons are needed for the Frisbee tourna
ment, Women's Relays, Men's Relays, and 
Water Balloon Battle. People interested in 
working on carnival in any capacity are 
welcome, and you can even start your own 
contest. Contact Larry Denburg through 
the Skibo Information Desk.
Student Senate welcomes any feedback, as
it has the power to act on Student issues. 
Senate would expecially welcome examples 
of waste of materials (or time) by the 
University (or its employees) if the 
example can be documented. Any infor
mation regarding this should be put in the 
General Campus corrrmittee mailbox at 
Skibo Information Desk.
The following library hours will be in
effect for the February break: Friday, Feb. 
22: 8 am. to 5 pm.; Saturday, Feb. 23: 9 
am. to S'.'pm.; Sunday, Feb. 24: closed; 
Monday, Feb. 25: 8 am. to 5 pm.; Tues
day, Feb. 26: 8 am. to 5 pm.; Wednesday, 
Feb. 27: regular hours will resume.
Regular hours, effective February 3, 
1974: Mon.day-Thursday: 8 am. to 1 am.; 
Friday: 8 am. to 9 pm.; Saturday: 9 am. to 
9 pm.; Sunday: 1 pm. to 1 am.
I'm interested in making a film about
summer job experiences-all sorts of jobs, 
all sorts of experiences. Would people will
ing to talk to me about this get in touch 
with me? Thanks. Mat von Brauchitsch, 
Drama Department, Film and TV Program. 
Call 683-1300 ext. 300.
The second of the Composer's Concert
Series will.be given on Thursday, February
21 at 8 pm. in the Wherrett Room, Skibo. 
Featuring works by Carnegie-Melion Uni
versity student composers Chang, Horelick, 
Hutchinson, Cook, Lee, Awstill and Simon. 
There will be no admission charge and the 
public is cordially invited to attend.
The University of Pittsburgh External
Studies Program (UESP) exists for people 
who cannot attend class every week due to 
job requirements, family responsibilities, or 
transportation constraints. Students study 
at home at their own pace, using speciallyprepared instructional materials. Each 
course requires the student to attend three 
on-campus Saturday workshops during 
each term. Courses taken in UESP carry 
the same credit as those in the School of 
General Studies; they are taught by the 
regular University Faculty. Various support 
mechanisms have been developed to pro
vide for additional instructor contact and 
for course-related communication to stu
dents via mail and telephone; Admission 
requirements are identical to those in the 
School of General Studies.
If you like what you see and want to 
know further about people enrolling, 
please provide the necessary address and 
we will forward registration kits to you 
with the new Spring courses in March. 
Registration for Spring term begins 
February 25 and ends April 29th. Classes 
begin on May 4th and May 11th.
On February 17th at 8:30 pm. the Carne
gie-Melion Community Orchestra will be 
performing at Carnegie Music Hall, conduc
ted by Chauncey Kelley. Nelson Whitaker, 
pianist and CMU associate professor of 
music will solo in "Concerto for Piano and 
Orchestra No. 5, Opus 103" by Camille 
Saint-Sans. Other pieces will include 
"Overture to Russian Ludmilla" by Glinka, 
"Symphony No. 1 in B Flat Major, Opus 
38" (Spring Symphony) by Schumann, and 
"Salome's Dance" from the opera 
"Salome" by Richard Strauss.
Part of the music is provided from a 
Music Performance Trust Funds grant. This 
is a public service organization created and 
financed by the recording industries under 
agreements with the American Federation 
of Musicians. The concert is open to the 
public and free of charge.
CMU Students' Gallery positions will be
open for the Fall of 1974. Applicants for 
Assistant Director for Operations, Assistant 
in Operations, Assistant Director of Public 
Relations, Assistant in Public Relations are 
available at the Skibo Information Desk 
beginning March 5. Applications must be 
completed and returned by March 22.
There will be an open house in the
Electrical Engineering Department on Sat
urday, March 2, 1974 from 12:30 to 4:00 
pm. A tour of the building and research 
laboratories will be conducted beginning at 
2:30 pm. This event is sponsored by Eta 
Kappa Nu, the Electrical Engineering 
honor society and it is open to the public:
As part of the FM conversion festivities
WRCT-FM/88.3 will feature the top groups 
of the last ten years in 12 hours of our 
greatest music. And as a special treat, at 3 
pm. WRCT wiil broadcast the CMU hockey 
team game against Duquesne University. 
Join us from noon to 2 am. on 
WRCT-FM/88.3.
CMU Students' Gallery Director applica
tions for 1974-75 will be available at the 
Skibo Information Desk on February 27. 
Applications must be completed and 
returned by March 8th. All applicants must 
have at least one year's experience in the 
Students' Gallery.
Join Dr. Cyert for the ceremonies when
WRCT-AM converts to WRCT-FM/88.3 at 
TGIFM (Thank God it's FM) on Friday, 
March 1st starting at 4:30 pm. Skipper 
Fischer will be broadcasting music to go 
FM by from the WRCT studios, while the 
Rhythm Kings supply the dancebeat at the 
final TGIF of the year.
First-time, full-time students who are
pursuing their education after high school 
and are in financial need may still apply for 
a Basic Educational Opportunity Grant 
from the Federal Government. The dead
line for submission of applications has been 
extended from February 1 to April 1, 
1974. The size of a Basic Grant depends 
solely upon the financial need of the stu
dent and his family. Individual awards for 
the 1973-74 school year are averaging $260 
with a maximum of $450.
The money can be used to help defray 
the students' cost for tuition, fees, books, 
housing, meals and miscellaneous expenses. 
To apply for a Basic Grant for use during 
the 1973-74 academic year, an "Applica
tion for Determination of Expected Family 
Contribution" must be obtained, filled out, 
and mailed to P.O. Box B, Iowa City, Iowa, 
52240. In a month the student is notified 
of the amount of his family's expected 
contribution. He then submits the notifica
tion to the school of his choice, which 
calculates the amount of the Basic Grant to 
which he is entitled. Application forms 
may be obtained from the student financial 
aid officer at the student's school or from 
Box 84, Washington D.C. 20044.
Classified Ads
Baby sitter wanted for 41/2 boy, your home
or mine, Monday-Thursday morning, Fri
day afternoon, 10-4:00 after mid-May. 
Point Breeze, 363-2298 after 5.
Personals
Anna,
It was six months and a year ago 
On a long island by the sea 
That a maiden there lived whom I got to 
know
By the name of Annabel C.
And this maiden she smiled as cute as a 
child
And I loved her and soon she loved
me.
Now, each evening it seems, she enters my 
dreams,
This beautiful Annabel C.
In the morning I rise, and see the bright
eyes,
Of beautiful Annabel C.
I swear that it's so, that in Ohio,
My darling, my darling I never will go 
From your side by the Olentangy, 
Fronr^your room by the side of the
sea.
Carl
Romeo:
"She hangs like a jewel from an Ethiop's 
nose. . . "
To the campus community's high-minded
people: The rumor of the month is that 
you may be paid a visit by your Pittsburgh 
friends in blue before February break. 
They love crumpets, but don't serve them 
any tea.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, February 19, 1974Page 5
Energy Committee Recommendations
by Debbie Siegel v
In the latest of a number of reports on 
energy consumption at CMU, a committee 
composed of a number of Officials of 
CMUs Operations Division and two faculty 
members emphasized the need for a central 
regulating system for campus lighting and 
air circulation.
How are you going to stop using so 
much energy if you dont have controls? 
said John C. Purcupile, an Associate Pro
fessor of Mechanical Engineering, who has 
been advising the administration con
cerning energy for a year and a half.
Purcupile emphasized the need to 
install some thermostats which cant be 
regulated by anybody in the room. Too 
often, when people dont like the 
temperature, they adjust it themselves. 
Such wastes of energy have led the 
members of the committee to stress the 
importance of total campus-wide co-opera
tion in the cause of saving energy.
The committee met on Friday, 
February 8, and was composed of Ron 
Rutledge, Chief Officer of Operations, 
Harry Rowell, Director of Operations, Bill 
Dillon, Operations Space Allocater, 
William Banks, Director of Physical Plant, 
Bob Lichy, Director of Building Services, 
Professor Stanley Angrist of Mechanical 
Engineering, and Purcupile.
A plan to purchase steam from the 
Bellefield generator in Panther Hollow, 
because of the anticipated expense of re
ducing pollutants emitted from CMUs 
generator led to the first CMU energy 
saving study in July 1973, when a draft of 
a preliminary study and report of the 
Potential Savings in Steam Consumption 
for CMU was prepared. CMU has been 
operating a power plant that produces 
steam for heating the buildings, for 
heating, hot water, and for air con
ditioning. This plant is to be abandoned 
next year and steam will be purchased 
from the Bellefield Boiler Plant. The CMU 
plant was not meeting the current air 
quality standards because of a high level of 
sulphur dioxide emission:
The purchase of steam from Bellefield 
requires a large capital investment for 
additional steam generation and the con
struction of approximately 1,000 feet of 
steam condensation piping. The cost of 
steam is expected to increase. These factors 
led to a study that would determine ways 
to conserve energy and cut down the 
wasting of steam.
Another engineering survey, study, and 
report dealing with a more economical use 
of electrical energy was submitted on 
January 18, 1974. One major conclusion 
from this study was that CMU has an un
usually large OFF hours energy con
sumption for an operation which has essen
tially and 8:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. work 
day.
The base demand on a summer day 
averages over 4500 kilowatts and this 
demand is used 24 hours a day including
weekends and holidays. Rutledge empha
sized that this base load accounts for 87 
Dercent of the daily energy use, and is in 
effect when campus buildings lire un
occupied.
A number of suggestions have been 
made, therefore, to align energy con
sumption more closely with building 
occupancy. One suggestion was to shut 
down buildings with program switches 
according to occupancy level in the 
buildings.
Some immediate changes have been 
lowering the thermostats in Warner Hall, 
Science Hall, Hunt Library, and Skibo 
from 73 degrees to 68 degrees. A survey 
testing how many fluroscent tubes may be 
eliminated in Science Hall has been com
pleted and tubes will soon be removed. 
Automatic timers, installed in perimeter 
lighting in Warner Hall, allow the lights to 
be on between 7:30 a.m. and 9 a.m. 
Stickers reminding people to turn off lights 
are being printed.
When asked why certain campus 
building are still very warm, Ron Rutledge, 
Head of Operations and a member of the 
Energy Consumption Committee, ex
plained that some of the buildings that are 
very old dont have thermostats to regulate 
the heat. Some of the dormitories were 
built 40 years ago. he said. There is a 
basic lack of automatic controls.
Part of the February 8 meeting was 
devoted to reviewing the report on use of 
electrical energy. All of the men agreed
that lights aren t causing that much 
electrical consumption on the campus. The 
main problem is that a lot of money is 
spent keeping lights on and circulating air 
when people arent there.
Bob Lichy explained that on February 
4th. bulbs in Science Hall were regulated to 
80 foot candles. Prior to this they were sei 
at 125 foot candles. If people are going to 
complain about lowering the lights, the> 
havent noticed so far or had time to sub 
mit their complaints. lichy, Director ot 
Building Services, explained.
Dr. Angrist pointed out, The biggest 
problem with Science Hall was its design 
for high energy and air demand. As the 
Comp Center is isolated from other parts 
of the building, it might be possible to cut 
energy in other areas of the building.
Possibilities are being discussed that wil! 
cut down some of the lights outside Warner 
Hall. Incandescent bulbs may be replaced 
with high intensity lights. Painting wal! 
lighter colors is another option that ma 
alleviate some of the need for light.
Despite all the alternatives that Dr 
Angrists committee will be researching and 
the evaluations of capital investment which 
are necessary, the committee kept its sensi 
of humor. Dr. Angrist commented, Hov 
about getting some of those dummy con 
trols that appear to be thermostats0" 
Rowell injected, They have nothing in th 
back? They might be psychologically com 
forting, like the Placebo effect.
THE EVERY OTHER TUESDAY 
AFTERNOON FORUM SERIES:
WOMEN AND MADNESS
Speaker: Claudia Dreifus
/
Tuesday, March 5
12:30 to 1:30 In The Wherrett Room, Skibo
FREE AND OPEN TO CMU CAMPUS 
COME AND TALK
Sponsored by the Activities Board

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 19, 1974
WRCT-FM!Haven Always't We Been?
abled the continuous playing of music, 
without the presence of a disc jockey. The 
Federal Communications Commission re
quires the presence of a person with a 1st, 
2nd, or 3rd Class Operators License from 
the FCC. To get a license one must pass a 
standard test which is given three times a 
year downtown at the federal building. 
Frank added, If there is an operator in the 
station we might as well have a live show.
Another change involves the increase of 
WRCTs transmitter power from two-thirds 
of a watt to 10 watts.
Programming will definitely run every 
night from 7:00 p.m. till 2:00 a.m. during 
the week, and there is a fair probability 
that these hours might be extended to a 
beginning at 4:00 p.m. From 7:00 to 8:00 
p.m. there will be educational 
programming including fifteen minutes of 
news. There are six permanent members of 
the news staff and Frank explained how 
fifteen or twenty more members would be 
advantageous. The station has permission 
to run ABC network news.
No commercials may be run due to the 
stations educational label. An interested 
sponsor can pay for an hour on a particular 
show and the sponsors name will be 
announced.
Arnie Karr, programming director for 
WRCT outlined the tentative plans for 
programming. On Sundays, Classical music 
will be played from noon to 4:00 p.m. At 
4:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. Mitch Greenbergs 
Busy Signal is on the air. This is a talk 
show where anyone can telephone in and 
converse. From 6:00 to 8:00 is the Oldies 
Show. And from 8 to 12, Ron Smith 
carries on with the only Soul Show in
photo by Rod Reilly
Pittsburgh* on Sunday. Album Spotlight 
continues from 12 to 2:00 a.m.
We hope eventually to make Sunday 
almost all soul and jazz programming. In 
the past, theres been a lack of that sort of 
thing at WRCT and weve alienated just 
about every Black student at CMU because 
of it. We aim to become listenable again, 
Arnie told the TARTAN.
From 7 to 7:30 on March 5th the first 
Poet Show will feature Ed Ochester from 
the faculty of the University of Pittsburgh. 
The concept behind the show is to involve 
students and faculty in sharing their poetry 
and general writing with listeners.
Radio Reader will begin on March 
4th and continue every Monday through 
Friday, from 7:45 to 8:00 p.m. One Flew 
Over the Cuckoos Nest will be read in 
segments. Last semester, this format was 
tried with the reading of CA TCH 22.
Plans for a series in musical education 
written by Akran Midani, Dean of Fine 
Arts are being finalized. Original and 
commercial Radio Plays are being con
sidered for the air. Stacey Kimbell of Big 
Bite fame has already written one for 
production.
Arnie summarized WRCTs philosophy, 
Our status as an FM educational station 
affords us quite an opportunity to experi
ment, and thats just what we want to do. 
We want to involve creative people on 
campus and in the community. Those 
shows would also be enjoyable to listen to. 
Were also thinking about broadcasting CIT 
lectures or Music Department concerts. 
Were open to any possibilities. WRCT-FM, 
unlike its AM counterpart is going to have 
a listening audience.
There will be a meeting of the
Programming Fund
Wednesday, February 20th
At 7:30 p.m. in Room 57, 
the Activities Board Office.
All organizations wishing funding for events this 
semester must attend. Applications are available at 
the INFO desks.
by Barbara Lee Witte
International
In 1947 the first session of The Com
mission on the Status of Women was held. 
Because of the important contributions 
that women have made to the social, polit
ical, and cultural life of their countries, the 
General Assembly of the United Nations 
recently decided to proclaim 1975 as Inter
national Womens Year. The SecretaryGeneral of the U.N. has been requested to 
prepare a draft program which would en
courage the full integration of women in 
world development and present it to The 
Commission at their next meeting in 1974.
State
John Heinz III, member of the Pennsyl
vania House of Representatives, has intro
duced legislation to establish the National 
Center for the Prevention and Control of 
Rape. The center would be responsible for 
financing and conducting research and 
demonstration programs designed to under
stand rape: 1) its causes and effects; 2) the 
impact of the crime on the victim, her 
family, and society; and 3) the present 
methods of treating the victims and the 
accused. The center would also study pre
sent rape laws and enforcement procedures 
to determine the reasons for the low rape 
conviction rate as opposed to the high rate 
of instance and to draft a model rape law.
Local
On February 12, Rabbi Philip Sigal, of 
the Jewish University Center, and Nancy 
Van Duuren, social psychologist and 
author, together led an informal discussion 
on the Churches impact on women. Ms. 
Van Duurens book, The Subversion of 
Women Practiced by Churches, WitchHunters and Other Sexists, reveals how 
women have adopted the very traits the 
misogynists for centuries have accused 
them of having, and how this has given 
women both a means of power and a 
method for self-destruction. Ms. Van 
Duuren believes that the Christian Church 
sees women as being sinful and that a 
woman is expected to spend her life trying 
to overcome this judgment. Rabbi Sigal 
spoke about changing the psychology of 
the feeble-minded woman in Jewish 
thought. He used the illustration of the 
Orthadox Jewish practice of separating 
women from men in temple. The reason
for this is that women are not thought 
capable of concentrating during worship. 
By placing them away from the men, they 
may gossip together and not be a dis
traction to the men.
Camegie-Mellon
Kim Gibran, a junior English major, has 
been working to establish a C-MU-- 
supported employment center for women 
and men. Presently the financial aid office 
has a work study program for scholarship 
students and a job box. Kims aim is to 
increase the selection of jobs for all stu
dents while they are attending school. She 
plans to actively solicit jobs on and off 
campus by speaking to prospective employ
ers.
Since October, Kim has sent out quest
ionnaires to C-MU students and 90 colleges 
and universities aimed at finding out what 
students would like established and how 
other schools have set up similar programs. 
Her final goal in setting up an employment 
center is to give students a paid internship 
in their major field and provide references 
for future jobs.
President Cyert has approved a co-ed 
weight room which will be realized hope
fully by the end of spring semester. It will 
be in the gym where the Black Cat Lounge 
is now located. It will be carpeted and will 
have weight machines, bicycles, treadmills, 
mats and possibly a sauna bath. The exist
ing weight room is presently for men only 
because it is accesible only through the 
mens locker room.
Events
On February 2.0 at 9:00 p.m. Channel
11 will present a 2-ho.ur program called A 
Case of Rape.
On February 21, the YWCA and 
Pennsylvania Womens Political Caucus of 
Allegheny County will have a discussion 
about rape at the YWCA at 8:00 p.m. on 
Fourth and Wood Streets. The panel will 
include Robert Colville, Pittsburgh Super
intendent of Police; Catherine Sopcoff, 
R.N., head of the McGee Hospital Emer
gency Room; Edgar Schneider, defense 
lawyer; Pat Farky, Social Sciences Depart
ment of McGee Hospital; John Heinz, 
Congressman; and Elyse Rodgerson.
Moderating the program will be Ellen 
Adelsheim, KDKA host of Woman Is.
WOMEN STUDENTS: 
DISCUSSION
SEXISM IN THE CLASSROOM
MS. SUZANNA DOWNIE
Faculty, University of Pittsburgh
6:30 p.m. Feb. 19, Tues. Rm. 39, Skibo

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 19, 1974-Page 7
letterscontd:
continued from p. 2
community who is attending a school 
within that community, the health of both 
will be improved.
9 The momentum for such a change of 
attitude comes from the following propo
sitions: a) the college experience is a 
part of life, not merely preparation for life, 
and b) individuals are more capable of
creative and productive effort if they con
sider themselves independent and respon
sible persons. CMU should begin a 
movement in this direction.
Lee W. Coop rider
Editor:
Having graduated from this university in 
1971 with a B. A. in English, 1 find a 
situation within my former department 
very unsettling, to say the least. After three 
years, only two of my former English pro
fessors are still with the university. Only 
two. And one of those two teachers has
been on leave for the entire academic year. 
Granted, not all of those lost teachers 
were excellent; some were truly mediocre. 
But why is the baby being thrown out with 
the bathwater? Why is Russell Brignano 
being denied tenure?
Barbara L. Hobbs 
Editor:
The deplorable condition and utter Filth 
of campus buildings is hard to understand. 
Spending most of my working hours at 
GSIA, I had hoped it was a condition pecu
liar to this building alone. However, Baker
UNIVERSITY COPY SERVICE
209 N. CRAIG ST. 681-5411
HIGHEST QUALITY . . .
sharp permanent XEROX copies 
on 20 lb. bond paper or customer's 
own letterhead
Lowest Prices .
call about our large volume rates and 
delivery service - or any special copy
ing needs
Collating ...............No Extra Charge
Legal Size .............No Extra Charge
3 Hole Punched .... No Extra Charge 
2, Side Copying........No Extra Charge
4<t................1st copy
3c.............. 2-20 copies
(per original)
2C................21 or more copies
ENGINEERS
In energy fields, communications, highway safety, consumer 
protection, exploring inner and outer space, defense, environ
ment....Federal agencies have been given responsibility for 
some of the most important work being done today.
Some of their jobs are unique, with projects and facilities 
found nowhere else. All are challenging and offer excellent 
potential for advancement. Good people are in demand.
Our nationwide network can get your name referred to agen
cies in every part of the country. Chances are some of them 
are doing things you'd like to do.
Write to: Engineering Recruitment, Room 6All
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION 
WASHINGTON, D C. 20415
AMERICA IS AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYERl
Is stealing a
nee call worth
a criminal record?
The use of phoney credit cards, electronic devices or any other means to avoid 
paying for phone calls is against the law. Its stealingpure and simple.
In this state, conviction for making fraudulent phone calls may result in:
 A fine of up to $15,000
 Up to seven years in jail
 Restitution for the total cost of the fraud
 Court costs
 A permanent criminal record
One more thing: modern electronic computer systems are being used to track down 
offenders.
The penalties may seem harsh. But the cold fact remains that the law does not look 
on phone fraud as a lark.
u5) Bed of Pennsylvania
Hall, Doherty, etc. are just as dirty, if not 
worse. Must secretaries take to the broom? 
Office floors are so untidy that balls of 
fuzz and dust keep rolling around. How 
about cleanliness is next to godliness? 
Austerity programs are great, but isnt 
there some other way? Must we work in 
such filth and utter disarray?
Paper scraps accidentally dropped on 
floors weeks ago are still there, now a per
manent part of the floor pattern. Rubbish 
is overflowing from long days and nights of 
unemptied waste baskets.
If it is accepted that man came from 
dust and shall return to dust, then there are 
a lot of beings either coming or going on 
this campus.
Helen S. Held 
Secretary, GSIA
President Cyert:
As the president of a university con
trolled by technological interests (witness 
the occupations and interests of our Board 
of Trustees), you may not be able to do a 
lot about the senseless denial of tenure to 
one of our finest teachers and scholars, 
Professor Russell Brignano. You may not 
think it important. I dont know whether 
you do. But if you want C-MU to continue 
to move ahead toward really educating its 
students, you should either reverse this 
decision or urge those closer to the case to 
do so.
Perhaps by defining education, I can 
state things a little more clearly. The word 
education is derived from the Latin first 
conjugation verb educare, to lead forth. 
If our university turns its back on the 
liberal arts by firings (Rather, denying 
tenure. Pardon me.) of its talented H&SS 
faculty, it will be abdicating its right and 
its responsibility to educate^ For 
education, since it is a leading forth of 
what is best in young men and women, 
cannot be merely training for a trade or 
profession. Technical training is a good 
thing. It does enable students to earn a 
living when they graduate, which is some
thing we all would like to do. But a mere 
capacity for making money should not be 
mistaken for human worth and potential. 
So we train engineers to build bridges. Are 
they happier and better people for it? No! 
Not unless they are exposed to the 
humanizing influence of the liberal arts 
(and true exposure necessitates a thriving 
H&SS division!) can they contribute fully 
to a society that needs much, much more 
than just bridges.
In short, I urge that you do what you 
can to reverse the denial of tenure to Pro
fessor Brignano. In a larger sense, I urge 
you and those who control this university 
not to turn it back into a miserable trade 
school, but to allow it to occupy the front 
rank in American education that it 
deserves. Keep Brignano! And, please leave 
us our liberal arts. At least give us the 
chance to grow into decent human beings, 
and not just machines.
James Cox, B.A., 1973
SUMMER JOBS
Guys & Gals needed for summer 
employment at National Parks, 
Private Camps, Dude Ranches and 
Resorts throughout the nation. 
Over 50,000 students aided each 
year. For FREE information on 
student assistance program send 
self-addressed STAMPED enve
lope to Opportunity Research, 
Dept. SJO, 55 Flathead Drive, 
Kalispell, MT 59901.
... YOU MUST APPLY EARLY....
REVI WDBYTHD FWWOWDFHAT iFY.*F* CFW WTTH
REVIEWED BY THE FEOERAi. T*AOE COMMISSION

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8THE TARTANTuesday, February 19, 1974
NEC
ENTERTAINMENT CONFERENCE
continued from p. 1
lationship with artist, management and 
school. He has talked with agents trying 
to arrange a few concerts, mostly for next 
semester. These include Sonny Terry and 
Browie McGhee, two older spiritual folk 
and blues musicians, Edmonds Curly, a 
comedy set, and Josh White, a folk singer. 
All these performances are possible pend
ing money from Student Senate, and con
tracts signing with the artists.
Trissy Bowers attended coffeehouseoriented events because she is head of ABs 
coffeehouse committee. She found that 
compared to other universities our coffee
house program is doing well. There is a 
possibility that C-MU will book some out
side jazz performers she learned about at 
the conference. At the conference Ms. 
Bowers realized one thing I want to work 
on is getting a permanent place for our 
coffeehouse program. She thinks this 
would help popularity and attendence of 
the program.
To attend the lecture portion of the 
conference, AB sent Patty Arnie, the pre
sent lecture chairman. She also attended 
special events workshops. She learned more 
about her field and investigated some lect
urers for this semester and next. Concern
ing the every other Tuesday afternoon 
forum series, she is looking into getting 
Ms. Claudia Dreifres to speak for the 
Women and Madness forum on Tuesday, 
March 5. There is also a possibility of 
having a practicing witch speak at the
Witchcraft and Occult forum. Next 
semester there is a very good possibility of 
having Gene Roddenberry, producer of the 
TV series Star Trek, give a lecture on 
Saturday, October 19. The Dinglefest, an 
experimental theatre group, may put on a 
production on November 2.
Rob Kleinman, future AB chairman, now 
known by close associates as "Tex".
The prospective movie chairman, Lor
raine Weisbrot, went representing films. 
She thought the workshops were a valuable 
learning experience and she made many 
valuable contacts. She developed some new 
ideas for the AB animation night. She will
be having a meeting on Thursday at 7:00, 
Room 11 in Skibo, open to all students. 
Movies for next semester will be discussed.
Rob Kleinman went as a co-ordinator of 
the group. He attended any events the 
other people could not make, one of which 
was the video tape workshops. He is pend
ing director of AB. Mr. Kleinman pointed 
out that all of the activities that have been 
lined up will become reality only if they 
get the funds they are asking for from 
Student Senate.
KODAK FUND DEVELOPED
An unrestricted grant of $31,000 from 
the Eastman Kodak Company has been 
awarded to C-MU under Eastman Kodaks
1973 Educational Aid Program. Money for 
the grant is based on the number of C-MU 
graduates who joined Kodak within five 
years of their graduation and have been 
serving Kodak for five years. Kodak con
tributed $750 for each academic year an 
individual completed at C-MU. C-MU is one 
of 123 privately supported colleges and 
universities who receives a grant of this 
nature.
The Kodak program was established in 
1955. It awards money in the three major 
areas of research for education, selected 
educational associations that advance the 
general goal of education, and major col
leges and universities to aid capital im
provements and endowment campaigns.
Taj Mahal Restaurant
5151 Cloirton Blvd., Route 51 South
 NOW OPEN
Distinctive Indian Cuisine 
Buffet every Fri.: $4.75 per Person 
FOR RESERVATIONS: CALL 881-9500 
WEDNESDAYLadies Dinner, Vi Price
When accompanied by adult male.
Shadyside Presbyterian Church
AMBERSON, OFF 5th AVE. 682-4300
SUNDAY:
9:00 Worship Service 
9:30 Learning community (adults 
and children)
10:30 Community Worship 
Celebration 
11:00 Worship Service
Ms. Nano Chalfant, Campus Staff
IF YOU THINKMOTHER
MeansMOTHER
You're not invitedw*
Dough Made Fresh Daily e
 FINEST INGREDIENTSWE DELIVER
CENTRE AT CRAIG 621-6755
Arr 0u:
Tired of the Ho US/ flQ HOSSIG ,
n" Skibo Food?
Did your Favorite Prof. get Fir6d 
Have you had it with Being DimGd and DoHorGQ
into
^Bankruptcy
YOU ARE, ARE YOU!
THEN
dettate
mnm
Election - Petitions Available Feb. 18 at Skibo Desk. 
4.10,4-11 " DUE Mar. 22 in Rules Committee Box.
(al SAiA esJd

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, February 19, 1974Page 9
RESEARCH
Thousands of Topics $2.75 per page 
Send for your up-to-date, 160-page, mail order catalog. Enclose $1.00 to cover postage (delivery time is 1 to 2 days).
RESEARCH ASSISTANCE, INC.11941 WILSHIRE BLVD., SUITE #2 LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90025 (213) 477-8474 or 477-5493
Our research material is sold for 
research assistance only.
Do we want him?
How A Teacher Gets Tenure
DRIVERWANTED
Evenings-Pizza Deliveries 
Must have car & liability insurance 
Excellent Pay 621-6755
RUGS
FOR
LESS
with your ID Card 
9 x 12s $15,$19, $29, $39 
also 6x9s,12x12s,12x15s
Also wall tapestries, Indian rugs furry rugs 
and bedspreads. Low prices oriental rugs in 
many sizes.
ASK ABOUT DISCOUNT FURNITURE
CHASE'S
5426 Walnut 
Shadyside
10 a.m. - 8 p.m. Sat, 'til 5 
For directions call 621-1025
Tired of misinformation about drugs? Peer 
Help can give you straight answers. 150-A 
Baker Hall, 621-9900.
by Steve Saunders
Editors note: This is the introductory 
article to a series dealing with tenure. It 
will be followed, starting March 5, by 
articles dealing with specific tenure cases in 
the various colleges.
Recently, many students have expressed 
discontent with the tenure system, if only 
because they have seen some teachers who 
they particularly like forced to look for 
another job after a negative tenure de
cision.
Few students really understand that 
system, however. This beginners guide is 
an attempt to explain how it works and 
why it exists to those who know nothing 
about it, and to those who do know some
thing about it and want to know more.
The basic premise behind the tenure 
system is that all faculty members undergo 
a trial period before a decision is made 
as to whether they become permanent 
members of the university community. 
According to a recent report by the 
Committee on Goals and Objectives of 
Tenure of the Faculty Senate, the tenure 
policy at CMU is intended:
1. To guarantee, through permanent 
appointment, freedom of intellectual pur
suit and utterance for a significant portion 
of the faculty.
2. To attract and keep a faculty which is 
outstanding in the quality of its teaching 
and its scholarship or in other professional 
achievement.
3. To protect the University against the 
permanent employment of a faculty which does not 
meet the highest standards or serve the 
particular needs of the university.
When a teacher comes up for tenure, 
he is either granted it and can stay here 
forever if he chooses, or he is denied it and 
must leave. A faculty member who has 
been denied tenure cannot stay on as a 
full-time teacher. He may be hired parttime, but in most cases he must leave en
tirely.
According to a recent report by the 
Educational Affairs Council of Faculty 
Senate, which was tentatively accepted, a 
faculty member comes up for tenure by 
the time an individual has completed eight 
and one-half years of service with the rank 
of full-time assistant professor or above.
The sequence of appointment is: In
structor, for no more than three years; 
Assistant Professor, for no more than six 
years; Associate Professor, for an amount 
of time that varies according to the faculty 
member; and Professor, till death do us 
part. A faculty member can be promoted 
to associate professor before he becomes 
tenured, and does not necessarily have to 
be promoted to full professor before he 
becomes tenured. According to the new 
university-wide document, promotion to 
associate professor indicates that a person 
has the potential to get tenure. Getting 
tenure indicates that the person has the 
potential to be promoted to full professor.
The criteria by which faculty are evaluaAkadama Mama says,Be Nice to Mice*
This weeks letters 
were kind of 
dull, but I did get 
a neat package.
It contained a home 
built mouse trap. Not 
one of those hurtful, snapper, killer, 
5 & 10 things. But a genuine cant-hurtyou-and-Im-sorry-if-I-scared-you kind 
of a thing. It was made of scrap wood 
and window screen (see illus.) and I got 
a very together friend of mine to do a 
blueprint and instructions. I also have 
a friend with a copy machine, so if youd 
like a copy of the plan just mail me the 
mouse coupon.
Now that weve been nice 
to mice, Id like to give you a 
couple of my favorite Akadama 
recipes that will be nice to you.
of ice and lemon and orange slices. 
To make more just double, triple or 
quadruple everything.
Listen to Mama, 
and pass the Akadama.
The wine you can mix.
/\
I / /7\ /"\ NV ! 'A*! \
/-Nf-Ll____________1-7
THE VODKADAMA
------------------.---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------. _
Mail to: Be Nice To Mice S / I
jPalos Verdes Peninsula. Ca. 90274
f x  I P.O. Box 2629 \ Its almost harder to f 
pronounce than it istomake. \ ' Akadama Mama, please lav a copy of
Just mix one part Akadama ", J'our ^together friend s blueprintsI & instructions on me.
| Name____________________________
Address___________________________
Red and one part Vodka, 
then add a twist of lemon 
and a nicely amount of ice.
SANGRIA AKADAMA , * .......................................
a l / a i i i /* ! I m checking this box becauseA bottle of Akadama ' Jxi b  ,  . , / I Akadama is picking up the postage and 
m * I, 1:1 -~ U  T 1-------------1  A ...-----------------
/! City-?  StateZip Code
Red, a pint of club soda, 
V4 of a can of frozen lenu 
ade concentrate, plenty
* | they would like it if I also asked you to
V-i of a can oi frozen lemon-V 4 _ pass an Akadama recipe card.
ted vary somewhat from college to college. 
In H&SS, they include teaching, scholar
ship and creative activity, and other con
tributions to CMU. In Fine Arts, they in
clude teaching, related professional 
activities, and other contributions to CMU. 
In CIT, teaching, research, and educational 
and professional activities are prime 
criteria. And in MIS tenure involves 
teaching, research, leadership in education, 
other areas of professional development 
and other contributions to CMU. The new 
university-wide document lists teaching 
and educational activities, scholarly and 
artistic activities, and professional 
activities. It also says: For promotion to 
tenure, each candidate is expected to be 
outstanding, or to be judged to have 
promise of becoming outstanding, in one 
of those three. All candidates for pro
motion at all levels are expected to have 
competency in teaching and in scholarly 
and artistic activities.
According to the various college docu
ments: In H&SS, a faculty must be 
competent in teaching, in scholarship and 
in creative activity, and excellent in at least 
one of them. In CIT, a faculty member 
must be a skilled teacher and competent in 
research, and outstanding in either research, 
or educational and professional activities. 
In MIS, faculty must be excellent in both 
teaching and research. In Fine Arts there is 
no preference given to one criteria over 
another.
In most of these cases, teaching includes 
not only the acclaim of students, but the 
teachers actual materials, the respect of his 
colleagues, and his impact on teaching at 
other universities. Professional activities 
include membership in appropriate 
societies and such. Other contributions to 
CMU includes membership on university 
committees, and participation in special 
programs, etc.
This is complex. But what it all boils 
down to is summed up in the introduction 
to the university-wide document: All in
volved should recognize that the final de
cision made on promotion is partly sub
jective.
In the end, a faculty members tenure 
decision boils down to one question: Do 
we want him?
The actual procedure by which tenure 
decisions are made also varies slightly from 
college to college. Generally, each Fall any 
department having people up for tenure is 
informed by the end of September. A De
partmental Review Committee reviews 
each candidate and informs the dean by 
December. In some cases, the department 
head sends a separate evaluation. The dean 
may evaluate the candidate on the basis of 
the departmental recommendation, or he 
may simply add his own evaluation to 
theirs. In any case, by the end of January 
the University Review Committee is 
informed and makes its decision. Then it 
goes to the President and the Board of 
Trustees. Most of the time, the depart
ments recommendation will be followed. 
If anyone along the way votes nay, its 
usually curtains.
And thats about it. Ihe basic informa
tion everyone should know. Clip this ar
ticle out and save it for reference. You may
 ^Import

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-THE TARTANTuesday, February 19, 1974
42 ND. STREET
bv Mark Evan Chimsky
42nd Street runs a miniscule gamut 
from the sublime to the ridiculous, with a 
heavy-handed emphasis on the latter. It is 
pure escapist fun, easy bait for nostalgiahungry fans. The film is a classic if, and 
only if, the term is defined as the realized 
epitomy of a particular genre. All the 
elements that make up 42nd Street are 
arch, contrived. And yet, it was embraced
more sad than funny to consider audiences 
of the time emphathizing with such in
credible situations, believing (or at least 
wishing to believe) in the unbelievable. 
Werent they aware of the stock insincerity 
of the lines and the actors speaking them? 
No depth, no life-only glamorous bodies 
that may as well have been cardboard. I 
know the whole rationalization already; 
people were in the midst of a humbling
with a wild enthusiasm upon its opening in 
1933. The big question is Why? Forty-one 
years have not altered the movie, merely 
our perception of it. 42nd Street can now 
be taken as either one more campy joke, or 
as refreshing relief from the sex-andviolence whirpool our film industry is 
quickly sinking in.
The story shows us how shlocky little 
chorus girl Peggy Sawyer can tap her way 
to the top--especially when the star of the 
big show breaks her ankle, and the 
director, frantic to open on schedule, is in 
urgent need of a replacement. 42nd Street 
is the original chestnut which has been 
spoofed relentlessly (most brilliantly by 
Ken Russell in The Boy Friend.) The film 
features Ruby Keeler attempting to play a 
girl with talent. Hows that for miscasting, 
folks!
Time has glossed over the Age of Ruby 
Keeler and Dick Powell with a rose-colored 
varnish. We applaud their romanticism, 
their happy naivete~but perhaps it wasnt 
all that good. Perhaps we are just sub
limating our admiration for those innocent 
qualities, now lost in our cynical society. 
We pay blind tribute to a god that has 
foresaken our culture; we enjoy 42nd 
Street because its the way we were, the 
way we wish to be. Our blase sophisti
cation encourages us to laugh at the dated 
dialogue and characterization, yet it is
Depression and needed an out, they desired 
a world far removed from theinown, full of 
glittery backstage intrigue .^nd lavish 
musical numbers. But it was a' desperate 
and empty need, compounded by a rather 
childish immaturity. To emulate that past 
publics response is to admit defeat.
Oh, I wanted so much to like this film. 
Good, clean Art Deco fun and all that 
Depression jazz. But, unlike Public Enemy, 
or the Fred Astaire-Ginger Rogers oldies, 
42nd Street has not aged well. We expect it 
to be dated, but not nearly so ill-conceived. 
The Depression seems to have profoundly 
struck everything of that era-including 
acting technique. Never have I seen bigger 
names give more clumsy, falsely crafted 
performances. Ruby Keelers acting has all 
the subtlety of a Mack truck, and when she 
launches into a dance, she resembles a 
trained horse stomping out its age. No 
wonder they referred to tap-dancing as 
hoofing. She was an all-American joke, 
that was worshipped instead of laughed at.
Still, Ms. Keeler evokes only embarrass
ment, whereas Dick Powell, the munchkinfaced, perennial-juvenile-lead, stirs a violent 
nausea deep within. Saccharine, not blood, 
coursed through the unfortunate mans 
body. He was a tuxedoed candy cane 
masquerading as a star. The rest of the cast 
follow the leads of Keeler and Powell, con
juring up a kind of mass-produced emotion
on cue. Only Ginger Rogers, possessing a 
cynical warmth, bears any relation to a 
living being. Others, among them Bebe 
Daniels and Una Merkel, are content to 
puppet their way through their parts.
The script, by James and Seymour, is of 
a language almost foreign to us-its Hollywoodese. Stale as Skibo rolls on a bad day, 
the lines could never have been fresh, even 
in 1933. There are some glints of humor 
waiting to be mined. Heres a sampling of 
the cream of a rather withered crop:
Powell to Keeler: Ive been for you 
ever since the day you walked in on me in 
my B.V.D.s.
Of Guy Kibbee: He looks like a 
Bulgarian boll-weevil mourning its first
born.
Ginger Rogers to a bitchy chorus girl: 
It must have been hard on your mother 
not having any children.
Lloyd Bacon should have directed 
traffic, not films. There is no art to his 
handling of scenes; an occasional angle shot 
may prove interesting, and then he goes 
and ruins the effect by repeating it several 
times. All of 42nd Streets magic is manu
factured by that genius of geometries, 
choreographer Busby Berkely. His 
patterned dances and stylized production 
numbers are witty novelties. He fashions 
the inanely-written Shuffle Off To 
Buffalo into a light and breezy musical 
piece. And, of course, there is the memor
able 42nd Street number. But Im finding 
it hard to figure out how they loaded all 
those cars, horses, bridges, apartments, and 
chorus people onto that typical Broadway 
stage.
42nd Street looks as if it were made 
before America had passed puberty. Yet
sexual innuendos lurk within those sugarfrosted lines. Audiences nowadays have no 
trouble searching them out. The film is a 
glorious testament to how far we have 
advanced, cinematically. It must be per
ceived as one views a fossil. The trend 
toward maudlin, mediocre entertainment, 
(i.e., Love Story, Jonathan Livingston 
Seagull), is a clear and present danger, 
though. Laughing at 42nd Street is the 
antidote-cheering 42nd Street encourages 
the plague.
Last year more bicycles were sold in the U.S. than cars. This year you can open the 
best bike store in the Pittsburgh area.
Big Wheel Bikes franchises sell 21 different brands 
of 10 speeds including the complete lines of Fuji, 
Peugeot, Atala, Nishiki, Lambert, Falcon and Gitane. 
Our sales mix emphasizes high quality general-pur
pose bikes, but all cycling needs are met. We will 
assist you in site evaluation and interior-exterior 
store design and our format for advertising and pro
motion will get you off the ground. Program in
cludes training in proven operational techniques 
in management and bike mechanics. Guaranteed 
buy-back of stock. Cash requirement.
For more information write:
big wheel bikes
1034 33rd street,n.w. 
Washington,d.c. 
(202)337 0254

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, February 19, 1974Page 11
Bthe big biteLm
by Stacey Robin Kimbell
Contis is a restaurant in the East Liberty 
Mall which is open around the clock, 24 
hours a day. Redundant but true. It could 
be that it is a Grecian restaurant because 
there are murals of Grecian statues on the 
walls and the menu lists oliveburgers and 
Grecian pastry, but the menu also lists 
Kosher corned beef. Those items are served 
from noon time until 6 or 7 a.m. There is 
then a transfer to a breakfast menu which 
is written directly on the paper place mats.
The first time I went to Contis was tor 
breakfast and according to my waitress I 
was the only customer who hadnt been 
there every morning for the last six years. 
She had been there for the last six years 
and she was pleased to see me. The wait
resses at Contis are pleased to see anyone. 
Not because there isnt business. In fact 
there is quite a lot, but because they all are 
pleased to be working there. A night shift 
waitress told us she liked working midnight 
hours but she might have been suffering 
from delirium as she mentioned that she 
goes to another job at 2 every afternoon.
The first time I went to Contis there 
was a man facing me in the next booth 
who looked exactly like Adolph Hitler and 
another who resembled Peter Lorre and 
was reading a yellowed race form with one 
eye and keeping the other one on me. For 
a while we stared each other down and 
then I said, I havent done anything yet. 
He put down the racing form and looked at 
me with both eyes. I was flattered. Finally 
he said he was going to bet on His Last 
Chance in the fourth. The waitress was 
passing and asked, Says who? The man 
pointed to his brain. He got up to leave and 
stopped at my booth to ask if I gambled. 
Only when I win, I said, and he left. The 
waitress started to tell me his biography 
but was luckily cut off by another
customer. As for Hitler, he just ate.
I would assume this isnt a daily 
occurance but it doesnt matter because 
the food is good; filling and inexpensive. 
For breakfast I had pancakes and grape
fruit and coffee for $1.50 and I couldnt 
finish cause it was too much. The coffee is 
constantly refilled at no extra charge. At 
night I had an Oliveburger which is a 
hamburger with chopped olives and 
pimentos sitting on the roll served with 
french fries and pickles and cole slaw, 
$1.65. The olive combination is too 
intriguing to eat with the hamburger. I ate 
half of it alone before it satisfied my 
curiosity, though with the hamburger it 
was terrific. Definitely an all meat 
hamburger!
My accompianist had a mushroom 
omelette that was solid mushroom and also 
looked like it might have had 3 eggs (this is 
true) because it took him quite a while to 
finish. Also Contis serves drinks at night 
which is good since most of the bars 
around dont serve food at night. If you 
can get to the East Liberty Mall, Contis is 
next to the Regent Theater on Penn Mall 
Ave. Nothing extraordinary but nice.
In Buenos Aires there was a cigarette 
shortage due to labor problems. Witnesses 
said one man waited in a long line, and 
finding his brand out of stock, bit the 
vendor and fled the scene.
The Tree
This is the tree 
growing in my voice.
I climb 
limb by limb.
The wind is my father 
hoisting me on his shoulders.
My mother is sleeping 
at the roots of my tongue.
A wakening forever,
I am here at the top,
waving, waving
Paul Barry
_
Each week, a previously unpublished 
poem will appear in this space. Any 
person wishing to submit a poem for 
publication may place it in Ed Evans 
box in the English Lounge, Baker 
Hall Evans will accept poems for 
The Oakland Review, as well.
^"g" 
THEATRE
inDinn/
by Susan N. Klein
Can a mini-version of a big, fat play still 
get across its original impact? That is the 
question which haunts the Pittsburgh Poor 
Players production of Indians by Arthur 
Kopit, currently running at the University 
and City Ministries in Oakland. We sit in an 
echo-chamber-church watching a bite-size 
production of what was once an enor
mously frightening evening of theatre. If 
you can shut out your surroundings and 
stretch your imagination, the play will 
move you; otherwise you may spend a lot 
of time squirming in your pew.
The cast of characters has been cut to 
almost half its size, scenes have been cut, 
business, props, lines cut. But its not a 
random butchering job, by any means. 
Kopits devastatingly ironic version of 
Buffalo Bills Wild West Show is no longer 
an extravaganza; its like watching one ring 
of Barnum and Baily on a Sony portable; 
still, the power of the show is kept alive by 
the unlimited energy remaining in the 
script. Kopit is a tease; hell write a scene 
so funny youll be in tears; when the scene 
ends, youll realize they should have been 
tears of sadness. Stuttering Jonathan in 
Kopits Oh Dad, Poor Dad. . . is a riot, 
but hes also pitiable. Wild Bill Hickok 
rapes an Italian actress playing an Indian 
maiden to the accompaniment of a non
sense-babbling German-accented Chief of 
the Pawnees, all for the amusement of a 
delighted mongoloidish U. S. President and 
his First Lady. We laugh; we are disgusted 
and horrified.
Buffalo Bill himself is written as a con
fused and impotent victim of circumstance. 
It is a difficult role, played well by John 
Dorrish. He whips his blond head around 
puppet-like; his blue eyes wander dazedly 
from the Indians he cares for to the govern
ment men who pay his salary and pull his 
strings. His wild gesticulations make him 
seem young and vulnerable; Dorrish does 
extremely well by the stream-of-conscious 
and guilt-of-conscience speeches penned so 
skillfully by Kopit.
The production looks very well; though 
everything is small-scale, its all hand
somely executed; the sets and particularly 
the lighting designed by Terry Byrne are 
effective; hes taken a difficult show to 
design and made it look easy. Credit, too, 
should go to director Garary Hitch, for 
keeping a show with over a dozen un
related scenes from looking horrendously 
choppy; there were many wise choices 
made in staging and effects which keep the 
show flowing with an admirable air of pro
fessionalism.
A big problem is a feeling of strain on 
the part of the others in the cast. The 
overly-broad takes of Daniel Chaykowsky 
as Wild Bill Hickock are unnecessary, as is 
the too well-articulated speech of R. G. 
Caughey as an educated Indian. Milt 
Thompson as a wise-ass journalist and Matt 
Neiburger as Spotted Tail were both much 
too loud and untame to be at all effect
ive-shouting by actors does not compen
sate for the smallness of the production. 
Bernie Mantell did some nice dialect work 
as the German actor and as the Grand 
Duke of Russia, but 1 wish theyd left his
Russian speeches and the part of the Inter
preter in the show. Mantell in the difficultly-written role of Chief Joseph seemed 
understandably uncomfortable. Dave 
Ciummo as Sitting Bull did not come off 
nearly as powerful or threatening as is 
needed; in fact, all the Indians, with the 
conspicuous exception of David Early as 
Geronimo, looked about as threatening as 
chubbily adolescent teddy bears. There 
should have been a very heavily-weighted 
tension in all the scenes of negotiations
hinted at.
Indians is a worthy and ambitious 
choice to be staged by the Pittsburgh Poor 
Players. Out of fiscal and physical 
necessity, the almost ritualistic dynamism 
of the play has been tamed to a degree 
bordering on unbelievablilty. Nevertheless,
if somg allowances are made the pro
duction is still entertaining. The script has 
something very interesting to say about the 
native-American situation, and Kopit pre
sents his view with an eager and honest 
freshness; this is matched and preserved by 
the sincere intent of this ever-improving 
local company.
between the government men and the In
dians, but the physical potential on the 
part of the Indians was never so much as 
???????????????????????? 
Join the 
Activities Board 
Film Committee.
There will be a meeting 7:00 Thurs. 
Feb. 21st in Skibo rm. 11 
Next year's schedule will be 
discussed.___________________i

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12THE TARTANTuesday, February 19, 1974/
HEINZ HALL FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS HEIN? HALL FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS
March 9 at 0:30 p.m. 
HEINZ HALL
The Pittsburgh Dance Council presents
"the world has never seen a more powerful expression Vo sheer
joy." The New York Times (Clive Barnes)
"one of the world's greatest dance companies."
The Daily Telegraph, London
Tickets: $5.50, $6.50, $7.50
at the Heinz Hall Box Office, Gimbels, Horne's, Kaufmann's and the Pitt 
Book Store.
Discounts to students ond senior citizens with ID's at the Box Office. 
Discounts to groups of 20 or more. Phone Phyllis Cohen at 281-8185.
HEIN7 HALL FOR TI li 1IRM )KMING ARIS HEINZ HALL FOR THE PERFORMING AR IS
Indians The play Indians by the great 
Arthur Kopit, will run from February 
21-23, 28, and March 1-2, 7-9 at the 
University and City Ministries at Fifth and 
Bellefield Ave. The play is gripping, comic 
and devistatingly tragic.
Andre Watts Brilliant pianist Andre Watts 
will perform at the Oakland YIKC on 
Bellefield Ave. on February , 27, 8:15. 
Watts will perform Beethovens Moonlight 
Sonata, along with works by Chopin and 
Liszt. Call the Y-IKC Music Society at 
521-8010 for more information.
Chaplin Series The Charlie Chaplin Film 
Series at Carnegie Library will continue 
with The Great Dictator, on February 
22nd at 8:00 and 10:15, and on March 1st, 
with Monsieur Verdoux.
Poetry Forum The International Poetry 
Forum in Carnegie Library will sponsor 
two Jamaican poets, Dennis Scott and 
Louis Simpson, on February 27 at 8:15. 
Scott is an actor, director and a member of 
the National Dance Theatre Company of 
Jamaica, as well as a poet. Louis Simpson is 
the recipient of the 1963 Pulitzer Prize for 
At The End of The Open Road. There is a 
student ticket discount, available at the 
Forum office in the library in Oakland.
Vienna Boys The Vienna Choir Boys will 
appear at Heinz Hall at 7:30 on March 3rd 
in a benefit concert for the YMCA of Pitts
burgh. Tickets are 4,5, and 6 dollars, and 
are available at the box office and at the 
major department stores.
The Vienna Choir Boys will appear at Heinz Hall on March 3rd.
Theatre Workshop Professor James Rosen
berg of the Drama Dept, has announced a 
Berlin Theatre Summer Workshop for the 
coming summer.
The summer session will be run in con
nection with Schiller College in West 
Berlin. It will run for six weeks-June 
18-July 26--and students will normally take 
two courses: a Theatre Workshop, to be 
directed by Professor Rosenberg and to 
culminate in a public production in Berlin, 
and an academic course dealing with some 
aspect of German or European theatre and 
culture. Instruction in all classes at Schiller 
College is in English, and a knowledge of 
German, while helpful for visitors to Ber
lin, is not necessary. The session will also 
include frequent visits to theatres in both 
East and West Berlin, meetings and inter
views with actors, directors and designers 
in the German theatre, and critiques of 
productions.
The total fee for the program (tuition, 
travel, board and room, etc.) will be ap
proximately $1,000 (depending on fluct
uations in the exchange, shifts in basic air 
fares, and other variables). While this is 
primarily a program in theatre arts, stu
dents from other disciplines are welcome 
to attend. Professor Rosenberg will 
accompany the students from C-MU as 
group leader.
Interested students are invited to con
tact him at the Drama Dept, immediately.
The Pointer Sisters Appearing on March 
14th at the Syria Mosque will be The Poin
ter Sisters, the hottest new act on the 
entertainment touring circuit. Their hits in
clude Yes We Can-Can, and WangDang-Doodle. Their act is amusing and 
tight--they sing everything from campy 30s 
and 40s arrangements to the blues of Willy 
Dixon. The concert will be popular, so get 
tickets soon.
Film: Dial M for Murder will be pre
sented on March 3rd in the Wherrett Room 
of Skibo at 7 p.m. and 9:30 p.m., ad
mission $.75. The film is a mystery thriller, 
directed by the great master Alfred Hitch
cock, starring Ray Milland and Grace Kelly.
King Lear The New York Shakespeare Fes
tival Production of King Lear will be 
shown on the Theatre in America series on 
February 21st at 8:00 p.m. WQED. The 
production stars James Earl Jones, and will 
be repeated that Saturday at 10:00 p.m.
Hal Holbrook as Mark Twain in Heinz Hall on 
February 27th.
Mark Twain Hal Holbrook will perform his 
one-man show, Mark Twain Tonight on 
Wednesday, Feb. 27, at 8:30 p.m. in Heinz 
Hall. Tickets are available at the box office 
and at the major department stores. Call 
Heinz Hall, c/o Marion Damick 521-0170 
for ticket information.
The Pointer Sisters will appear at the Syria Mosque on March 14th.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 19, 1974-Page 13
.SPORTS
The technical foul basically serves a worthwhile purpose in basketball; 
its just a little bit of intimidation to those who would let the game get 
out of hand. / wouldnt be without it.
But the technical can get out of hand, too. There are some aspects 
which might easily be forgotten by all, and would gladly be forgotten by 
many viewers of last Wednesdays C-MU W & ] game, or at least by those 
who arrived before the opening tipoff.
Actually there was no opening tipoff. In the pre-game warmup, some 
of the Tartan big men were dunking the ball, which is an exciting thing for 
a basketball player to do. They didnt see the officials come in, but the 
officials saw them doing it. One of the arbitors said something to one of 
the players, and most of us had a strong suspicion what it was.
Sure enough, after the Anthem, a W & J player was at the line. He 
made it 1-0 before the game had even started, and then the Presidents had 
it out of bounds, from where they took it in to make it 3-0. Thats a hell 
of an intimidation to a team trying, on an unfamiliar and hostile court, to 
stop a 0-14 team from giving their fans something to shout about.
If a guy starts a fight, if he throws the ball into the stands, finebut for 
dunking before the game starts? Theyre not going to pull the hoop down.
Jeff Engl und
Ice Men/Pitt
by Mary Kay Burak
Still undefeated, the Carnegie-Mellon 
Tartans will meet the second-place Pitt 
hockey squad at the Civic Arena, Saturday 
February 23 at 7 p.m. The final and 
most hotly-contestedconfrontation 
between Pitt and C-MU this season, this 
game should decide who will finish first in 
the Western Pennsylvania Intercollegiate 
Hockey Associateion, prior to the play
offs.
 The traditional C-MUPitt rivalry 
should guarantee an exciting game. In ad
dition, the Panthers high-scoring wing, 
Rick Vernon, will be back on the ice. In 
the December 9 clash between the two 
clubs, Vernon scored all four Panther goals. 
That game ended in a 6-4 victory for 
C-MU.
Vernon missed the second match on 
" February 2. Nevertheless, the Panthers 
battled the Carnegie-Mellon club to a 4-4 
tie.
Last season, Pitt received the champion
ship. However, the Tartans beat the Pan
thers twiceonce in a league game, once in 
an exhibitionand tied them once. But 
when it came to the play-off, C-MU was on 
vacation and the league decided that Pitt 
* would face Indiana instead of the Tartans.
Regardless of the outcome of the Feb
ruary 23 contest, this year C-MU and Pitt 
should meet in the finals.
I.M. Awards 
Discontinued
by Mike Pochan
It has gotten to the point where we 
have decided to eliminate the awards for 
the championship teams for the 1974-75 
season, stated I. M. director Earl J. Birdy. 
And the funny thing is, its not because 
our I.M. program is running poorly, its 
because the program is doing great.
The C-MU Intramural Program has ex
perienced a large growth rate over the past 
few years to the point where 61% of the 
male students participate in at least one 
intramural sport. IM basketball has shown 
the largest increase, fielding 65 teams that 
involve 700 students, a 20% increase over 
last year. The problem is that the Intra
mural budget has not increased in propor
tion to the increase in participation; thus, 
the money appropriated for 1974-75 is not 
enough to continue some of the I.M. 
practices. Awarding trophies to champion
ship teams is one of the customs that has 
been sacrificed.
Rising costs of equipment and enlarged 
expenditures for I.M. referees are the main 
factors that increased the Intramural bud
get needs. Economic inflation has driven 
the equipment costs up while an increased 
number of I.M. teams has necessitated an 
increased number of officials. With each 
official being paid $1.50, the cost begins to 
add up.
Take, for example, the present basket
ball situation. Ten new teams have partici
pated as compared to 1972-73. With each 
team playing an average of eight games, 
there are 80 more games being played this 
year. Throw in two referees each game at 
$1.50 each, and it adds up to a $240 in
crease over last year. And this is only one 
sport out of 32.
I would like to see more money appro
priated for the I.M. program, commented 
Birdy. I feel we have shown a real need 
for more funds, and if participation con
tinues to grow, as it is now, this need will
become much greater within the next few years.
Tartans Skate to 
Flawless Victory
photo by Mary Kay Burak
C-MU s high scoring line, Mike Kenworthy (on boards), Rick Farman (21) and Mike Gallaway (19) 
at work in the last Pitt game.
by Dave Girdany
On Tuesday evening, February 12 at the 
Alpine, the C-MU hockey team actually 
played a game in which it outplayed and 
outscored its opponent in all three periods. 
The result was an easy 5-0 victory over 
Penn State McKeesport. Substitute Tartan 
goalie Frank Sciulli played in his first 
league game, as Jeff Hart sat out the third 
period. Frank was superb, stopping th 
opponents one shot on goal without any 
difficulty. Overall, C-MU outshot Penn 
State by 39 to 7.
Pete Davis opened the scoring at 5:38 of 
the first period, beating the Penn State 
goalie with a good slapshot. Less than two 
minutes later, Jeff Jacobs tipped a weak 
Rich Herlich slapshot into the goal. Less 
than three minutes after that, Pete scored
again on another good shot. Throughout, 
C-MU controlled the game easily, keeping 
the puck in the enemy zone for most of 
the game. Jeff Hart was hardly tested in 
the first two periods. Tom Grimm scored 
in the second period and Joe Molnar in the 
third to complete the Tartan scoring.
This was an easy game, and the Final 
score could have been greater, as the Tar
tans missed the net on several excellent 
opportunities. This was the first game in 
which the Tartan substitutes had a good 
chance to play, and they responded. Al
though it didnt score a goal, the Ace 
Chassen line kept the puck in the enemy 
zome for much of the time it was on the 
ice. Hopefully, this game will set a trend of 
good Tartan hockey for a whole game. If 
such a trend develops, the C-MU hockey 
team will have little trouble winning the 
league championship.
Scoring Summary
1 ] 1) C-MU-Davis 7 (Kenworthy, Farman) 5:38; 2) C-MU-Jeff Jacobs 4 (Herlich, 
Molnar) 7:16; 3) C-MU-Davis 8 (Kenworthy) 10:07.
2] 4) C-MU-Grimm 4 (Molnar) 9:55.
3] 5) C-MU-Molnar 3 (Grimm, Davis)
7:50.
C-MU Scoring (League, February 14)
Kenworthy
Davis
Farman
Gallaway
Peterson
Molnar
Grimm
Jacobs
Goldsmith
Bauer
Eastman
Hauser
Graves
Herlich
GoalsAssistsPoints
41317
8513
6511
5611
538
358
437
437
415
134
1'J3
1
0
0
Goaltending (League, February 14) Games Goals Against Goals Against/Game
Hart
Sciulli
9 2/3 
1/3
25
0
2.59
0.00

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 19, 1974
Raiders Taste 
Sweet Victory
by Jim Litsas
The Raiders IV soundly defeated Salt & 
Pepper II on Wednesday, securing them
selves a playoff spot and tarnishing Salt & 
Peppers previously unblemished record, 
79-53. There was practically never any 
doubt during the game itself, as the Raid
ers, led by an early John Radic scoring 
spree, held the lead throughout most of the 
contest, and won handily by 25 points. 
Radic scored 15 points in the first half, and 
added 6 more in the second for a 21 point 
total. Ted Harhai also lifted the Raiders 
second half attack with 11 points, while 
Brian Carlock and Lee Patch contributed 
10 and 12 points respectively throughout 
the course of the game, giving the Raiders a 
78 point total. Salt & Pepper managed to 
keep it close first half, trailing by only 6 
points at halftime. They simply played 
sloppy ball that wasnt up to par in the 
second half, while the Raiders played an 
excellent game to bring their record to 7 
wins and 2 losses.
In one of the most exciting contests yet 
this year, Pika-A edged out Beta-A in a 
classically exciting Beta-Pika contest, by a 
score of 58-54. Beta led practically the 
entire game, losing the lead for the first, 
and final time, in the last 10 seconds of 
play. Beta scored exactly half of their 
points in the first half, while Pika kept 
close with 23 first half tallies. Pika was still 
4 points down at the end of the third 
period, but kept right on Betas tail, never 
letting up, until they had finally wrestled 
the lead from their opponents. Tim Taylor 
came on strong, netting 12 points in the 
first half and 13 in the second to lead the 
Pika victory. Betas customarily balanced 
scoring was led by Cedrone, Smith and 
freshman John Fisher with 16, 15 and 12 
points respectively.
GS1A and the Wild Bunch are the only 
undefeated teams left in the majors. 
Though GSIA is 5-0, they have yet to play 
a few teams, notably Salt SPepper, Wild 
Bunch, Pika-A and ATO-A; they should 
expect at least 4 tough contests, and 
possibly a loss or two along the way. Salt & 
Pepper (4-1) has yet to play Pika, GSIA 
and the Bunch, while the Wild Bunch (7-0) 
faces Salt & Pepper, GSIA and the Raiders 
in the near future. The major league stand
ings have not been finalized by a long shot.
ATO-A has played good ball all season, 
and has lost only 3 contests, to the Wild 
Bunch, Salt & Pepper and Pika-A. Brad 
Punko, Jay Duquette and Bob Pyzdrowski 
have led the quick, exciting ATO team to 6 
victories. The only tough team they have 
not played is GSIA. and ATO should get 
into the playoffs with at least a 7-4 record. 
PKA-A has lost to Wide Flanges, the Raid
ers and the Bunch. They have yet to play 4 
teams, notably Salt & Pepper and GSIA, 
but they should make the playoffs with a 
winning record.
In intermediate competition, the various 
league leaders have, for the most part, been 
isolated. In the Bulls division, the Polish 
Patriots are 7-0, the Players are 5-0 and 
Madd is 5-1. The Patriots defeated Madd a 
couple of weeks ago, but the Players face 
Madd today, and the race between these 
three teams might tighten up a bit.
In the Bucks division, there are three 
undefeated teams: the Orangantangs, Red 
Riders and Pika-B. The Orangantangs are a 
big, powerful team that can do it all, and 
could probably give a couple of major 
league teams a run for their money. If they 
play the quick, efficient games they have 
so far this season, they should make the 
playoffs and then some. Pika has managed 
to be the only frat to have their competi
tive A team backed by a tough B 
team. Pika-B plays well-organised, consist
ently good ball. They do, however, lack the 
height that the Orangantangs retain. The 
Red Riders are 5-0, but have yet to play 
either of the other two undefeated teams 
in the Bucks division.
In the Suns division, the Purple Gnurples and the P. K. Taters are the first and 
second place teams, respectively. They 
faced each other on February 5 and the 
game is under protest. The Gnurples 
dominated the entire contest, leading 
22-13 at halftime, and maintained a safe 
margin throughout the game. For the 
Gnurples, Behr scored 12 points, and Dale 
Yingst scored 14. The Gnurples have 
height, ballhandlers, and shooters, and they 
should take the Suns division champion
ship with an unblemished record, after 
todays final contest. The Taters, last years 
intermediate champions, should also make 
the playoffs that begin in March.
ADVENTS
are going up in price
Finally after four years, prices will be raised on the 
Advent loudspeakers and cassette recording deck. 
For those who recognize great sound the Advents 
will remain a big bargain. Right now they are bigger 
bargains. Lay-a-ways, charge cards, and trades ac
cepted. Order now and save.
opus-one,Oakland: 3519 Forbes 
621-9777
Downtown: 400 Smithfield 
281-3969 
Indiana, PaJ 57 South Ninth St. 
349-HIFI
Janice Caywood poses with Bruce Kison.
Swim-A-Thon Gets Underway
Bruce Kison, chairman of the American 
Cancer Societys 1974 Swim-A-Thon, 
visited Carnegie-Mellon last week to invite 
the University swimmers to participate in 
the event. The county-wide Swim-A-Thon 
will be held February 25 through March 1 
at many area pools.
Kison, who gained national acclaim 
pitching for the Pirates in the 1972 World 
Series, explained to the Tartan that partic
ipants in Lengths for Lives are asked to 
solicit pledges from sponsors in advance, 
swim as many lengths as they can, and 
collect the contributions earned according 
to the number of lengths completed.
Besides the pool here at C-MU, swim
mers may also use those at Chatham Center
Health Club from 11 a.m. to 9 p.m. daily, 
the Coraopolis YMCA during certain eve
ning hours, and Allegheny High School 
from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Wednesday and 
Thursday.
Awards will be presented to the oldest 
and youngest swimmers, the top pledge 
getters and money earners, and the swim
mer completing the most lengths.
Proceeds from the Swim-A-Thon will 
enable the American Cancer Society to ex
pand vital programs of research, education 
and service aimed at wiping out cancer.
Information and sponsor sheets are 
available from the American Cancer Soc
iety by phoning 261-4352 or by getting in 
touch with Mr. Birdy, campus extension 
413.
BNAI BRITH HILLEL-JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
FACULTY-STUDENT SABBATH
AT Point Park College 
Friday, February 22
"An Interfaith Dialogue" at 3:30 p.m.
Participants: Rabbi Phillip Sigal, Director, B'nai B'rith HillelJewish University Center
Father Tony Yester, Catholic Chaplain, Pt. Park 
College
Moderator: Professor Nathan Firestone, Pt. Park College
SABBATH WORSHIP: 4:45 P.M. Faculty Dining Room
LUNCH & LECTURE SERIES 
JEWISH THEMES IN WORLD LITERATURE
Monday, February 25 - Noon
Speaker: Professor Steven Hess, U. of Pittsburgh
Topic: "Spanish Ballad Traditions & the Sephardic Jews"
Location: Hillel Library, 3rd floor, Y-IKC (across from Heinz
Chapel)
(Lunch is $1.00 or just come for discussion)
* * * * * * *
CAFE TEL AVIV
MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY 11:30-1:00 
Lunch served . . . Thursday is Deli Day 
OLD MOVIES shown on Tuesday
Location: Hillel Dining Room, 3rd floor, Y-IKC on Bellefield
315 S. BELLEFIEL AVENUE (ACROSS FROM HEINZ CHAPEL) 
621-8875

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, February 19, 1974Page 15
Women Keep 
Winning
by Leslie Allen
On Saturday, February 9, C-MUs 
womens basketball team whipped Carlow 
College by a score of 49-7. In the opening 
moments of the first quarter it was plain to 
see that the inexperienced Carlow women 
did not stand a chance. C-MUs Jean 
Hundley scored the 1st 12 points of the 
game and at the end of the 1st quarter 
C-MU was ahead 16-0. In the second quart
er, Carlow finally scored a basket, while 
C-MU continued to dominate with their 
second string playing. The halftime score 
was C-MU 24, Carlow 2. In third quarter 
action C-MU could not be stopped. Both 
teams were plagued by turnovers through
out the game, but C-MU still scored 10 
points in the 3rd quarter to Carlows 4. At 
the end of the 3rd quarter the score was 
34-6. In the fourth quarter the 1st string 
was put back in and now C-MUs women 
were working for 50 points. They missed it 
by 1, the final score being C-MU 49, Carlow 7.
Jean Hundley in command scored 20 
points playing in 2 quarters, Cindy Whit
more scored 8, Marty Lisberger 6, Elly 
Zimmerman 5, Cathy duBreuil 3, Diane 
Wilk, Linda Ackerman, Ruth Potts all 
scored 2 and Barb Toole had 1 point.
In the home game that was played Tues
day, February 12, C-MU defeated Califor
nia State College 48-23. The five starters, 
Center Jean Hundley, forwards Elly Zim
merman and Cathy duBreuil, guards Marty 
Lisberger and Cindy Whitmore, using a 
3-man press, held Cal State to 11 points in 
the first half while C-MU had scored 27. 
Jean Hundley and Marty Lisberger domin
ated the 1st half scoring as Hundley had 15 
points and Lisberger had 8. Elly Zimmer
man and Linda Green both had 2. The 
second string was sent in midway in the 
3rd quarter and C-MU continued to score, 
now using a zone defense. At the end of 
the 3rd quarter, C-MU was up by 22, 
33-16. The 1st string returned to the game 
late in the fourth quarter, again trying to 
reach 50 points. At the end of the game, 
C-MU had won 48-23, falling two short of 
50.
Jean Hundley was high scorer with 20 
points, Marty Lisberger had 12, Cindy 
Whitmore added 4, Cathy duBreuil had 3, 
Linda Green, Ruthie Potts, Diane Wilk and 
Elly Zimmerman all scored 2 points and 
Linda Ackerman had 1. Coach Fisk plays 
all of the women on the team. Those who 
did not score but were assets defensively 
were: Brenda Alexander, Leslie Allen, Pat 
Berry, Barb Toole and Marianne Vakiner.
On Valentines Day, C-MUs women 
finally made their 50 points plus 1, scoring 
more than twice their opponents, beating 
LaRoche College 51-25. In the first quarter 
each member of the first string scored at 
least 2 points and C-MU was ahead 16-3. In 
the second quarter, substitutes played, 
scoring 13 more points to LaRoches 5. 
The score at half was C-MU 29, LaRoche 8. 
In the third quarter the 2nd string played. 
Ruthie Potts with an injured knee could 
play only under offensive boards. On de
fense it was 4 on 5 and LaRoche racked up
11 points to C-MUs 9 points.
At the beginning of the fourth quarter, 
the score was 38-25. The first string was 
back in, once again trying to make 50 
points. They rallied closer and closer until
there was little over a minute left and Cin
dy Whitmore layed one up and in. C-MUs 
women had made their 50. In the final 
seconds, C-MU broke 50 when Leslie Allen 
was fouled and shot 1 for 2. C-MU won 
51-25.
Jean Hundley and Elly Zimmerman 
both scored a big 14 points. Cindy Whit
more from the corner and layups had 12 
points. Leslie Allen dropped in 4, Linda 
Green, Marty Lisberger and Barb Toole 
made 2, and Cathy duBrueil had 1. Other 
women who played in the game but were 
scoreless yet good on defense were Linda 
Ackerman, Brenda Alexander, Pat Berry, 
Ruthie Potts, Marianne Vakiener, Diane 
Wilks.
Saturday, February 16, at Geneva 
College, C-MUs womens basketball team 
extended their record to 6 wins and no 
losses. The starting five were Cathy 
duBreuil, Jean Hundley, Marty Lisberger, 
Cindy Whitmore (Capt.), and Elly Zimmer
man. In the first quarter, C-MU trying a 
little too hard, missed shots, was called for 
travelling several times, and lost the ball on 
bad passes. At the .end of the 1st quarter, 
score was tied at 9 all. In the second quart
er, C-MU played considerably better, 
scoring 12 points. Genevas points in that 
quarter came from two foul shots. Score at 
halftime was C-MU 21, Geneva 11.
In the beginning of third quarter, C-MU 
continued to overpower Geneva, opening 
up a 19 point lead. Substitutions were sent 
in for C-MUs first string and Geneva 
racked up a string of points to bring them 
within 6 of C-MU. The first string came 
back in when there was a little over 3 
minutes left in the game. They took con
trol and the final score was C-MU winning, 
39-29.
Jean Hundley was again high scorer in 
the game, with 13 points. Elly Zimmerman 
had 10, Cathy duBreuil scored 9, Marty 
Lisberger 4, Cindy Whitmore had 2 and 
Leslie Allen had 1. Even though this was 
one of C-MUs more sloppy games, Geneva 
could not take advantage.
GIRLS... ARE YOU LOOKING FOR A SUMMER COUNSELOR POSITION?
Applicants are now being considered for the 1974 camp season. Must be 
able to teach one of the following: Arts & Crafts, Arts & Crafts Director, 
Dancing, Theater Director, Piano Accompanist and singing, Archery, Ten
nis, Tennis Director, Golf, Trampoline, gymnastics, Photography, 
Cheerleading, Riflery (N.R.A.), Scouting and Nature Study, A.R.C. Swim
ming Instructor, Boating, Canoeing and Water Skiing Instructor or 
General Athletics. Secretary and Bookkeeper also needed.
Write Camp Director, 2409 Shelleydale Drive, 
Baltimore, Md. 21209.
THE TENTH MUSE
PRESENTS
JOHN IMS
in a special 
3 - day
COFFEEHOUSE
Thurs. Feb. 28 - Free 
Fri. March T - 50t 
Sat. March 2 .- 50(
9:00 P.M. in the Kiltie Coffee House
A great act, well worth coming to 
Sponsored by A.6.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 19, 1974
NOW OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK
ENTROPY
THE NEW STUDENT OPERATED STORE ON THE MAIN FLOOR OF SKIBO.
Featuring
NEWSPAPERS CIGARETTES
MAGAZINES CIGARS
DRUGS HARDWARE
HEALTH & BEAUTY DETERGENTS
CANDY SNACK FOODS
STATIONERY RECYCLED RECORDS
And These Services 
LAUNDRY TICKETS POSTAGE STAMPS CHECK CASHING
OPEN 11 A.M. TO 10 P.M. DAILY EXCEPT SAT. 
12 NOON TO 8 P.M.
Getting married ... or know someone who is? Complete this registration form and return it to 
14 KQV Radio, 411 Seventh Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15222.
CMU
PLEASE
PRINTKOV RADI014 BRIDAL FAIR'
Syria Mosque, Saturday and Sunday, March 9 and 10
PLEASE FILL OUT THIS FORM AND DEPOSIT HERE
I am a bride-to-be and would like an invitation to BRIDAL FAIR*. I understand that this show is for future brides, their mother, future mothersin-law, and female friends only. Based on availability, I would like an additional _ tickets. I also understand that this form must be filled
out completely and legibly in order to receive an invitation and/or additional tickets. I prefer tickets to the show of (number your preference 1, 2, 3, 4):
SATURDAY (doors open 11 a.m.)_____ ___ ___; SATURDAY (doors open 5 p.m.)-------------
SUNDAY (doors open 11 a.m.)_________*______; SUNDAY (doors open 5 p.m.)---------------
To enable us to tailor the program and the entire BRIDAL FAIR* to the needs and tastes of the audience, please help by providing the following:
NAME OF BRIDE TO BE:
(FIRST)I FI -ASTnmxin(DATE OF WEDDING) MO/DAY_/YR.,
(ADDRESS) 
(CITY)_______
T-j___1___I
(STATEL.____(ZIP)(AGE),(PHONE).
NAME OF FUTURE HUSBAND:
(FIRST)(LAST)Vo r1 1(OCCUPATION)
(ADDRESS)
(CITY)
1...m
(STATE)
i I
.....t ........
.. i_.................
(ZIP)(AGE) (PHONE)
- - -
Have you received engagement ring? YesQ
No ?
Furnished Apartment j ? 
Where will you live? Unfurnished Apartment 2O
(check onel '8 3 SMobile Home 4 0
Have you purchased groom's ring?Yes [ Nod
Honeymoon Destination
After you marry will you
Work 1 ?
Go to school 2 [ j 
Homemaker 3 Q
Mode of Honeymoon Transportation:Drive 1 Q 
Fly 2 ?
Have you arranged tor the following:Have you purchased?Do you have? Ye* No
YeNoYe*NoYesNORevolving Charge Account Q Q
Wedding Photographern?Wedding GownJuStereoLJUChecking Account
Floristn?Registered Silver/China?LJSewing MachineLJLJSavings Account Q 0
Invitationsn?. CarpetI 1L !Refrigerator.LILJ(Please allow two weeks for invitation
Caterern?Drapes[ 1nBedroom FurnitureuU. to be mailed.)
Formal Wear??Television??Living Room FurnitureLI4JReg mark belonging to BRIDAL FAIR, Inc.
Thanks for your cooperation. Well be able to show you more of what you will be most interested in as a result of your help.
