B tartan
this week
WRCTagate page 2
The bare facts 8
SAC surveys psych majors 
Gatsby 10
Food and Dorm Rates Up
* by Steven Currell
A double dormitory room and 21 meal 
per week contract will cost $1,475 next 
year, an increase of $195 over this years 
rates.
C-MU President Richard Cyert had pre
dicted the increase in a letter to students
0 last summer.
^ In addition, contract policies will tight
en next year in an attempt to discourage 
students from canceling them partway 
through the year. Freshmen will no longer 
be able to cancel the housing contract and 
receive a refund if they move to the frater
nities. And all students will have to pay 
part of the bill for the second semester 
^ before the first semester begins, and forfeit 
ft that part if they cancel the contract. The 
new rates are based on full year contracts.
And Food Service plans to experiment 
during the first semester with a five lunches 
per week contract that will cost $140 and 
be sold to staff as well as students.
Dean of Student Affairs Earle Swank 
said that the university hopes the advance 
payment requirement will even out the use 
^ of housing and food service facilities which 
have usually gone partially empty or 
wasted during the second semester.
And it discourages people from using 
the dormitories as an inexpensive hotel un
til they can find off-campus apartments, 
he added.
This year, the university had attempted
to keep the number of contract customers 
from dropping at the end of the first se
mester by offering a discount to students 
who bought both food and housing con
tracts for the entire year.
The new yearly housing rates, 
announced in a memo from Swank to the 
Student Dorm Council, are: triple and 
double rooms with common bath $700, 
double with semi-private bath or double 
suite with common bath $750, double 
room with private bath $770, single room 
with common bath $820, single room with 
private bath $900, Morewood 2nd floor 
apartments with two residents $910, 
Morewood 1st floor apartments with four 
residents $930, Morewood 1st floor 
apartments with two residents or 
Woodlawn apartment with three residents 
$960, Woodlawn apartment with two 
residents $980.
The new yearly food service rates are:
21 meals per week $775, 14 meals per 
week (breakfast and dinner) $700, 10 
meals per week (lunch and dinner on week
days) $675.
Students who buy housing will have to 
pay $50 in early April when they apply for 
rooms and $50 more in June when they 
sign the contract. The $100 will be cred
ited toward the second semester bill.
Students who buy food contracts will 
pay half the yearly rate plus $25 at the 
beginning of the first semester, and the 
remainder of the price at the beginning of 
the second semester.
by David Cates
The final decision about the proposed 
H&SS switch from 12 to units has been 
postponed until after the spring break.
The purpose of the delay is to give the 
college time to deal with the issue on the 
departmental level. Department heads were 
asked to submit their proposals before the 
break, with a final decision scheduled for 
the April 2nd session of the College Coun
cil.
On March 8th. representatives of the 
H&SS Student Advisory Committees met 
with President Cyert and protested what 
they felt to be a railroading through of 
the l2-to-9 unit change. Provost Weber 
promised to see what he could about slow
ing down the process and allowing for stu
dent input. At the next College Council 
meeting. Dean Steinberg announced the 
postponement.
H&SS Postpones 
Switch to 9 Credits
oto by R ic Werme
Dean of Student Affairs Earle Swank
Sidewalks and 
Steps Repaired
by Tom Kendig
One of the last improvements Dr. Ronald 
Rutledge made as Chief Officer of Opera
tions was the repair of hazardous steps and 
sidewalks along the cut.
In the beginning of January, Director of 
Operations Harry Rowell received orders 
from Rutledge to repair the steps in front 
of Warner Hall and a 20- foot section of 
the walkway between Dougherty and War
ner Halls. The steps were crumbling to the 
point that walking them was a safety haz
ard. The walkway between Dougherty and 
Warner Halls had settled over the last few 
years so that large amounts of water 
collected on top of the cement, soaking the 
feet of those who walked there after a rain 
and creating a safety hazard when the 
water froze over.
The repair cost a couple of thousand 
dollars according to Rowell, who said he 
hoped it would be permanent, unlike the 
temporary patching done in previous years.
The cement must now cure properly to 
increase its life expectancy. Salt can weak
en fresh cement, and Rowell hopes that it 
witl not snow making it necessary to salt 
the steps for safety- until the cement has 
cured.Elsewhere on campus, steps and walk
ways around the hill dorms, particularly 
the steps leading between McGill and Boss, 
will be repaired by the housing office this 
summer. It is not yet known whether the 
repair will be a recasting ot the steps or 
merely patching.
The walkway behind Fine Arts and the 
Studio theatre is being torn up to be re
placed by a better walkway so that proper
ties from Margaret Morrison can be more
Provost Arnold Weber
March 19, 1974 Volume 74 Number 20
Activity Fund 
Died As C-MU 
Pared Budget
by Chip Yeager
The Office of Student Activities will 
lose a source of funds for sponsoring stu
dent activities next year as a result of bud
getary restrictions. Director Bob McCurdy 
explained that a fund under his administra
tion will be eliminated from the budget for 
the next year. The Discretionary Fund, as 
it is called, has been in existence since 
McCurdy came to CMU as Director of Stu
dent Activities. The fund provides money, 
at the discretion of the Director, for spon
soring activities that organizations such as 
Activities Board feel do not apply to a 
large enough segment of the campus 
community. The money can also go to help 
out, on a partial subsidy basis, established 
organizations that run into financial diffi
culties.
McCurdy explained that the Discretion
ary Fund was a casualty of a budgetary 
order from CMU President Richard Cyert 
to the Division of Student Affairs. The 
order stipulated that the net budget for 
next year in the Division could not be 
increased from its level this year. Dean of 
Student Affairs Earle Swank had already 
promised salary raises to Division em
ployees. Moreover, phone and postage in
creases had to be accounted for. In the 
struggle to cut back wherever possible, the 
Discretionary Fund was among those bud
get lines eliminated. McCurdy had origin
ally asked for $3,000 for next year, as 
compared to $4,000 this year. Dean Swank 
commented that McCurdy knew of the 
possibility of the Fund cut-off.
McCurdy referred to a similar fund ad
ministered by President Cyert. With the 
Discretionary Fund gone, this fund will be 
the only source of funds available to stu
dents outside of regular channels. A source 
within the Office of Planning and Budget 
could not quote any specific amount avail
able to Cyert, saying that a majority of the 
money came from grants and that this lay 
outside of the CMU budget. Basically, 
Cyert will replace McCurdy as the 
decision-maker as to who can be subsidized 
and who cant.
The Discretionary Fund, in the past, has 
supported widely varied student activities. 
One such activity is the CMU Film Festival 
which will take place in April. This is the 
fifth year for the festival which grew out of 
subsidies for film stock and developing that 
the Discretionary Fund provided. Other or
ganizations so supported have been the Kil
tie Pipers, by repair of their equipment, 
and the Jazz Band which relies on Fund 
money for publicity for its concerts.
Basically, Fund money goes to organiza
tions that need such things as promotion.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 19, 1974
editors note
Mama Mellon
Debaters take heart! There's a campus sport causing quite a clamor 
It's the Undergraduate - Graduate All Year Wit Match."
Team one, under the guise of representing all graduate sentiments> is 
calling for a break from mother C-MU. We do not need to be breastfed, 
to nurture students' psyche. Team two, undauntedly defending under
graduates, countercall it is not a matter of weaning; besides, its been 
going on for 10,000 years!
Team one rushes the netthe college community fantasy causes a 
separation of community and campus. Point. Team two, the college 
experience is a part of life; interaction within a thriving campus en
vironment is a healthy element of a city community. Point.
The argument brings a question worth some consideration. Are 
students too dependent on the University? The concept of complete
independence in housing, food and entertainment, in fact, anything ex
cept raw/hard-core education, has shocked the central nervous system of 
Student Government. That's good. There's room for scrutiny.
But the entire match is not based on a philosophy as much as a desire 
to get rid of the activities fee. The finance committee, the money holders 
of student sehate, seem to be the thrust in the match. Only a few weeks 
ago most of a meeting was spent arguing over the value of the film series. 
Proportionately, its one of the most patronized activities that reaches the 
widest campus cross-section. The quibble was over $1,000. It seems most 
organizations were, at least for a while, being given some serious run
downsthe rationale being the lower the budgets, the less the need for the 
fee.
Hence the proponents of weaning realize that the total elimination of 
college- supported activities eliminates the activities fee. Its quite an 
illustrious argument for the point*. More recent finance committee deci
sions seem to hint at a decrease in the Activities fee for next year while 
demanding that A B institutes a $3 card for all activities. That proposal is 
based on the incredible idea that you always have the money when you 
need it.
It is not a matter of C-MU, we are nothing without you, lend us 
your apron strings. Rather, the game rests in factall organizations 
cannot be self-supportive. It takes a hell of a lot of energy to raise 16 the 
TARTANs revenue. Two full time jobsstudent and organization money 
makeris an irrational demand, no matter how eloquently argued.
The matches go on, the points worth listening to and C-MUs mother
hood will survive long after the Finance Committee dies out.
Christine Infante
Editor-in-ChiefCnn C-MU Security buckle down?
Notice to All Readers and Advertisers: The TARTAN will not be printed next week 
due to the Spring Recess. The next issue will be April 9.letters:
News Editor: Rob SimbecK 
Features Editor: Shelley Burhans 
Entertainment Editor: Susan Klein
News: Anthony Adler, David Cates, Steve Correll, 
Sharon Curcio, Jan Lindberg, Tom Kendig, Emily 
Rheinhardt, Tom Schwartz, Debbie Siegel, Kevin 
Turcotte, Chip Yeager, Barbara Witte.
Entertainment Staff: Mark Chimsky, Stacey Kim 
bell, Terry Caywood, Arnie Karr, Chris Infante, 
Debbie Siegel, Seymour Peck, Woodro Celt.
Entertainment Artists: Richie Laeton, Rickey 
Gaskins
Sports: Mike Pochan, Mary Kay Burak
|ni] tartan
Editor-in-Chief: Christine Infante 
Managing Editor: Gary Singer 
Business Manager: Lester Nathan
Sports Editor: Jeff Englund
Photography Editors: Ed Levine, Elliot Arons
Head Reporter: Debbie Siegel
Photographers: Bruce Edelston, Ellen Eddy,
Chris Farland, Nick Lardas, Elliot Popowitz, Rod 
Reilly, John Rose, Frederick Shamlian, John 
Shettel, Courtney Larson, Bryan Smith, Frank 
Stein, Ric Werme
Layout: Louise LoPinto
Cartoonists: Ron Wiggins, Kitty Fischer
Copy: Mina Gerall, Sandy Preuhs, Cathy
Kinneavy
The Editorial Board of the TARTAN reserves the right to adit or withhold any copy that it 
considers unfit for publication. Published every Tuesday during the academic year by the student 
government of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Deadlines are 12 noon 
for announcements, classified ads and letters to the editor and 5:00 pm. for articles and display ads 
on the Wednesday preceeding the Tuesday of publication. Editorial and Business offices are located 
in Skibo 50. Telephone (412) 682-4557 or campus extension 656.
Editor:
There seems to be a misunderstanding 
about the typewriters available for student 
use in the Hunt Library and I would like to 
clear it up.
The ACM Company of Lancaster sup
plies and maintains these typewriters at no 
cost to the university as a service to the 
students. Hunt Library agreed to house and 
be responsible for them. By itself, the li
brary could never afford to provide such a 
serivce free of charge.
We realize how frustrating it must be to 
find them out of order when they are 
needed, but like all machines that are heav
ily used by many people they do break 
down. We try to be prompt in reporting 
such breakdowns. Unfortunately it takes a 
while to have them repaired as they must 
be sent out of town.
We know the students find this service 
useful and we hope the Hunt Library can 
continue to provide it.
Ruth R. Corrigan 
Acting Director 
University Libraries
Editor:
1 was pleased to see that WDC (born of
AWS) and MDC have finally merged. This 
idea had great merit 6 years ago (when I 
first suggested it, and got laughed at a lot), 
and still does. Its too bad that the move 
finally came at a time when both of these 
groups seem to be in the doldrums. On the 
positive side, it is good to see that men and 
women are no longer afraid of one an
other: that is a big leap forward.
Charles J. Vukotich, Jr.
SUPA *74
Open Letter To The CMU Campus 
Community:Many people have wondered why
WRCT has not been on the air since Sun
day, March 10. Many stories have been 
circulated around the campus claiming any
thing from the transmitter was hit by 
lightning to a jock used obscenity on the 
air and the FCC shut us down. To settle 
the matter once and for all let us make one 
thing perfectly clear-WRCT has concluded 
transmitter tests and is currently awaiting 
program authorization from the FCC. Al
though we had anticipated receiving 
authorization before transmitter tests were 
concluded we have not yet been granted 
such authorization. We are sorry for the 
delay and will return to the air a: -.)n as
possible. Thank you for your .tcouragement and for your patience in waiting with 
us.
The Executive Committee, WRCT
A &. M f t.-m av*

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 19, 1974-Page 3
news comment
The Non-Creative Creative Writing Program
i
The Creative-Writing Option at C-MU is 
dying a slow death. I think it is about time 
someone put it out of its misery.
Im not sure what the original guiding 
precepts behind the writing program were. 
Surely no one ever imagined that they were 
going to teach students how to write 
best-sellers. In writing, as in all the arts I 
guess, we all look to some higher source to 
produce the Charles Dickens and Alexan
der Solzhenytzens of our society. Yet, if a 
university does offer a writing program, 
then it certainly has a responsibility to at 
least maintain a semblance of instruction in 
the field. I submit that the creative-writing 
program as it exists today has failed to 
achieve even this modest criterion. It has 
digressed into a nether world of uninspir
ing, uneducational writing workshops 
that leave the student without a modicum 
of inspiration, or a sense of achievement.
In the first place, the concept of a 
creative-writing program per se, is a myth 
here. One does not enter the option at a 
starting point and work towards a defined 
goal, one only flounders around from 
freshmen year until graduation hoping to 
develop something a little more intel
lectual than a rapport with the English 
department secretary. Unlike the drama 
major who looks forward to playing on the 
mainstage, or the P&S student who ex
hibits in the student gallery, the writing 
major only plods from one workshop to 
another, becoming contemptuously famil
iar with the ditto machine and the polite 
criticism of his classmates. (Perhaps I 
should explain to the unimitiated that a 
writing workshop is structured around peer 
criticism of material the student-writer has 
duplicated for distribution.) There used to 
be a student literary magazine Two Hands, 
which was pleasantly disposed to print 
readable student manuscripts. Somewhere 
along the line it evolved into the Oakland 
Review, an admirable effort to collect 
manuscripts but a periodical which full 
one-half of the writing majors know noth
ing about, and one which, (because of its 
limited size, and relative obscurity) does 
little to fill the desire of lesser C-MU 
writers to get their stuff read by their 
own campus community. It is important to 
understand that student writers have a bio: 
logical need to appear in print. Half of the 
department is reduced ^expending its lit
erary wares on the staff of the TARTAN, a 
sick comment about a writing program 
which forces its students into extra-curricular (i.e., no academic credit) work, 
and then doesnt even offer a course in 
journalistic writing.
More than C-MU writers need to appear 
in print, they deserve to be given some 
fundamental criteria so that they can 
write things worth reading. Writing, like 
other fine arts, is usually referred to at 
C-MU as a craft. This is about the only 
intelligentstatement ever made about the 
creative writing program. Unfortunately, 
however, the College of Humanities, and 
Social Sciences is asking us to become 
masters of our craft by trial and error, 
instead of offering us an intelligible study 
of writing techniques, the tools of our 
craft. The student writer gets only half a 
semester introduction to any of the writing 
genres, to the idea that fiction is somehow 
different than poetry, and that iambic
pentameter is not the name of an ancient 
Greek playwright. There is little investiga
tion into the actual techniques of writing, 
beyond a casual mention that such-andsuch a writer uses such-and-such a point of 
view. The one thing we do come away 
from this school with is a healthy respect 
for writing: we learn that there is so much 
more to writing than just putting words on 
paper. Yet, only aborted efforts have been 
made to seriously study the function and 
use of basic elements like plot, character
ization, style, imagery, in regular work
shops. The vocabulary of the creative 
writing program is limited to two words - 
focus and direction - two of the most 
overused and under-defined terms in the 
whole school. Creative writing workshops 
have become tedious hemmings and hawwings about students work, where class
mates are required to say one nice thing 
and one constructive thing about each 
piece. I believe you can teach a student 
what to look for in student literature, yet 
no one has bothered to do so, and only a 
notable few have had the innate perception 
to rise above the humdrum I like ... 
and I dont like ...
This matter of evaluation of,student 
work is further complicated by the deci
sion to place H&SS back on grades. How 
do you grade a creative work? Rod 
McKuens poetry is a C- at C-MU, and a 
Chekov story is maybe an A; but just as no 
one ever knowrs what kind of garbage is 
going to be published these days, and given 
the absolute lack of critical guidance in the 
department, who is to say if a students 
work merits an A or a' B? This is a small 
point in the overall perspective of the writ
ing program, but it reminds me that the 
playwriting option which was in the pro
gram two years ago, has reverted back to 
the drama department, where it is not sub
jected to the ABCDR syndrome, and per
haps participates in what Dean Akram Midani once optimistically described as the 
sharing of the arts atmosphere in the 
Fine Arts complex.
1 sometimes wonder if the whole creat
ive writing department shouldnt move 
over there, not that theyd want us. But 
just as a museum goer looks at a Picasso and 
says his little kid sister could do better, so 
every armchair reader thinks he could be 
another Truman Capote. And as long as the 
student writers will probably never live up 
to Dr. Cyerts ideal of professionalism any
way, you may as well cart them off to Fine 
Arts and try to make artists out of them. 
Nobody seems to want to make them 
writers.
Sue Zimmerman 
English/Creative Writing 74
CONGRATULATIONS CONGRATULATIONS 
CONGRATULATIONS CONGRATULATIONS 
CONGRATULATIONS CONGRATULATIONS 
CONGRATULATIONS CONGRATULATIONS 
CONGRATULATIONS CONGRATULATIONS 
CONGRATULATIONS CONGRATULATIONS 
CONGRATULATIONS CONGRATULATIONS 
CONGRATULATIONS CONGRATULATIONS 
CONGRATULATIONS CONGRATULATIONS 
CONGRATULATIONS CONGRATULATIONS 
CONGRATULATIONS CONGRATULATIONS 
WHAT ELSE IS THERE TO SAY WHEN THE 
McCURDY's INCREASE THEIR NUMBERS?
And more of the same to J. Grason in hon
or of the birth of his new little K(evoke).
WRCTagate:
AN ACT OF COD OR THE FCC?
As of last Sunday, WRCT FM changed from a progressive rock" 
station to a continuous stream of static. The word generated by the 
station was that the FM transmitter had been hit by lightning and had 
been knocked out of operation.
According to the Open Letter to the CMU Campus Community by 
the Executive Committee of WRCT which is published in this issue of the 
TARTAN, the reason for WRCTs sudden disappearance from the FM 
band is that WRCT has completed transmitter tests and is currently 
waiting for program authorization from the FCC.
The truth of the matter, as much as / could decipher, is that on Sunday 
a WRCT engineer, Rick Galos, spoke to the FCC regional engineer in 
Buffalo and found out that WRCT was in violation of FCC rules. The 
normal procedure for obtaining a Federal Communications Commission 
Broadcasting License would be for a station to receive its construction 
permit, erect its FM equipment, conduct transmitter tests (not full pro
gramming labeled as transmitter tests), and have the FCC inspect the 
equipment. Instead of pursuing this procedure, WRCT decided to skip the 
testing and go right into programming, actually combining the two steps.
From the start, WRCTs conversion to FM has been plagued with 
misfortune. The difference with this latest snag is that it is hard to imagine 
WRCTs legal negligence to be anyone elses fault but WRCTs. It is not 
that hard to imagine that the station should have called this FCC man in 
Buffalo BEFORE starting programming.
As in Watergate (the all-purpose analogy) the actual crime is bad 
enough but the cover-up is even worse. WRCTs lack of knowledge 
could conceivably be another in the chain of coincidences that haunted its 
FM conversion. The lightning cover-up is only another 18 minute gap in 
WRCVs tape of credibility.
As its listening audience, its financial supporters (through the student 
activities fee) and the only friend it has, the CMU campus community 
deserves the respect that only the truth can demonstrate.
Gary Singer 
Managing Editor
Professor Professionalism
PROFESSIONAL RESEARCHER VS. PROFESSIONAL EDUCATOR
An invaluable part of a students educa
tion is the knowledge and inspiration im
parted by the professor. From an under
graduate students point of view the main 
contact with the teacher is through dis
cussion both in class and out. The pro
fessor is a unique source oHnfOfrnaifon in
I n '* * - A -o  - - ----- ^-3that his is a working knowledge of a par
ticular. A book, on the other hand, all too 
often approaches the subject in a cut and 
dry fashion. To be an effective means of 
transmitting knowledge, the professor must 
be adept at communicating to students. A 
teacher possessing this ability must also be 
disposed to conscientiously utilize it.
It has been my experience, all too often, 
that one of these elements is either missing 
or lagging. It appears that an accountable 
factor for this situation is the emphasis 
aniong some faculty members on research 
rather than on teaching. It is not that in
volvement in research per se is detrimental, 
it is the fact that it becomes an encompas
sing emphasis of their activities. The par
ticular research that a professor is engaged 
in should serve to broaden the scope of 
that individual which, in turn, when 
appropriate, may be passed on to the stu
dents. Research is obviously an important 
aspect of teaching. It keeps the professors
information timely and interesting and in 
many cases is an integral factor in the fi
nancial fabric of the University. What I 
question is the emphasis.
An interesting observation particular to 
our Psychology Department is that this 
neitfOtoifr ififcj0 o<$*r ifibsi fre
quently in the area of Cognitive Psych. 
There are some logical reasons for this but 
logic does not preclude what is right. The 
field of Cognitive Psychology is a highly 
competitive field for research grants and 
C-MU is renowned in this area. In order to 
maintain that station, however, the re
search done must be progressive. The other 
areas of Psychology, such as Social Psych., 
are not considered the focal point of the 
department and, interestingly, seem to em
ploy a more teacher oriented staff. It is 
unfortunate that these teachers, whose rap
port with the students can be attested to, 
must leave the university.
In summary, I would say that the nega
tive aspect of this department is the infringment of the bureaucracy and econom
ics of a University on the most vital funct
ion of this same institution, teaching, and 
all that this word implies and entails.
John Shettel

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4THE TARTANTuesday, March 19, 1974
announcements
The Library hours during spring recess are
as follows: March 24: closed; March 25-29:
8 am. to 5 pm.; March 30: 9 am. to 5 pm.; 
March 31: regular hours resume. Extended 
hours will be in effect April 27 through 
May 7: regular hours of opening, closing at
2 am.
Graffiti collectors, Now's your chance. A
small group of graduate students engaged 
in a research project on graffiti need na
tionwide samples. Send graffiti you've seen 
hanging anywhere to: Burl Moss, P.O. Box 
8402, Greensboro, N.C. 27410.
1974 Summer Crossroads for Foreign
Students: Colorado Springs, June 9-14; San 
Diego, June 1-8; Los Angeles, June 8-14. 
The Institute of International Education 
has announced 1974 Summer Crossroads, a 
program for graduating seniors or graduate 
students planning to return to their home 
countries no later than December 1974. 
The purpose of the program is to bring 
together selected foreign students for a 
week of intensive discussions* with promin
ent community leaders on subjects of cur
rent interest. Additional highlights are a 
week of home hospitality, social events and 
sightseeing. Application deadline: April 26, 
1974. For program information and appli
cation, see your Foreign Student Advisor, 
207 Warner Hall.
Carlow College will be offering a six week
program on "Alcohol: Use, Scope &
Focus," on Thursdays in Antonian Hall, 
Room 411. This program, sponsored by 
United Mental Helath, Inc., will cover the 
Sociological, Psychological and Pharmaco
logical aspects of Alcoholism.
The six Thursday sessions are the 
newest addition to the UMH gatekeeper 
concept. Through research it has been 
found that persons who have problems 
seem to relate more readily to individuals 
they come in contact with daily (teachers, 
bartenders, beauticians, police, etc.) rather 
than seeking professional help. For further 
information on this series, contact United 
Mental Health (A United Fund Agency) at 
391-3820.
Passover Information for Students and
faculty. Those students wishing home hos
pitality for Festival Days, April 6 and 7, 
April 13 and/or 14, and all those desiring 
to participate in the Hillel Campus 
Community Sedar on Sunday, April 7, and 
all those desiring Passover Meals at the 
Hillel Dining Club, call the B'nai B'rith 
Hillel-Jewish University Center, 621-8875.
On Tuesday, March 19 and Thursday,
March 21 panel discussions on prisons will 
be held in room 100 Porter Hall. The 
March 19 panel is on prison life. Views will 
be presented by three ex-inmates and two 
guards. The March 21 panel is on prison 
reform. The panelists include Margaret 
Cyert and Brad Walter, a former student at 
CMU.
A Bagel and Lox Brunch will be held on
Sunday, March 24 at 11 am. in Room 608 
of the Duquesne University Student Union. 
Dr. Lawrence Block will speak on "Drugs 
and our Society." It is sponsored by B'nai 
B'rith Hillel-Jewish University Center.
Attention Spohomores: Phi Tau Gamma,
the junior honorary on campus, will be 
giving two $50 scholarships to sophomore 
students. These scholarships will be based 
on academic achievement (minimum QPA: 
3.40 or equivalent) and contribution to the 
campus community. For further informa
tion and applications go to 202 Warner 
Hall (Student Affairs).
Professor Bobby Hill will speak on "Black
Americans in the Caribbean" in the fourth 
annual Caribbean Lecture Series. The lec
ture will be held at 3 pm. on April 10th in 
the Library of the Black Studies Depart
ment, 3804 Forbes Avenue.
Marina Whitman, Professor of Economics,
University of Pittsburgh; and former mem
ber of the President's Council of Economic 
Advisors will be speaking at CMU on March 
21. The lecture will take place at 4:00 pm. 
in the GSIA Auditorium.
Water balloon contests will be a new
feature of Spring Carnival this year. One 
event, a gazortching contest, will test how 
accurately a balloon can be catapulted over 
a distance of between 50 and 75 yards. The 
CCCP will sponsor any commuter inter
ested in forming a gazortching team; leave 
a note at the Skibo Info desk.
Man-Woman Weekend: This is not an
encounter group or a laboratory in the 
Masters & Johnson style. On the other 
hand, it is not just an intellectual, objective 
experience. It is an opportunity to take 
part in a day-and-a-half program to explore 
thoughts and feelings'' about being a 
woman, being a man, and man-woman 
relationships. Pastor J. Paul Balas .of the 
Lutheran University Center and Susan 
Christian of the CMU Department of Stu
dent Activities will be leading the weekend. 
Date: April 5 and 6, (6 pm, Friday to 6 
pm. Saturday), Place: Rednal Farm,
Ligonier, Pa, Cost: $5.00 per person. Call 
either J. Balas (682-6886) or Susan Chris
tian (621-2600 x 214) for further 
information and registration forms.
On March 28, 1974 from 8 to 11 am. in
the Wherrett Room of Skibo Hall, Project 
Upward Bound is sponsoring a "Career 
Seminar" to expose the students to career 
opinions in finance, banking, law, architec
ture, engineering, radio and television, and 
entertainment promotion. Each of the 
speakers will adderss the students for five 
to ten minutes. The remaining time will be 
used to give the students and the speakers 
the opportunity to interact and converse 
on an informal basis.
Spring Semester textbook overstock will be
returned to the publishers beginning April 
9, 1974. Please purchase needed texts be
fore that date. No special orders will be 
placed for texts returned or sold out by 
that date.
During the spring semester recess of March
25 through March 29, 1974 the Bookstore 
will be open from 8:30 am to 5:00 pm 
except Friday, March 29 when it will be 
closed for inventory taking purposes.
If you're a first year, full time student, you
may still be able to get a Basic Educational 
Opportunity Grant. The deadline for sub
mitting an application for the 1973-74 aca
demic year is April 1. Get an "Application 
for Determination of Family Contribu
tion" from your school's financial aid 
foficer or write to Box 84, Washington
D.C. 20044. Then fill the application out 
and mail it by April 1 to B.E.O.G., P.O. 
Box B, Iowa City, Iowa, 55240.
Four other Federal financial aid pro
grams are also available to needy students 
pursuing their eudcation after high school. 
They are Supplemental Educational Oppor
tunity Grants, College Work-Study, Na
tional Direct Student Loan and Guaranteed 
Student Loans. A student may apply for all 
five Federal grant and loan programs if he 
wishes.
Women Concerned About Women: Dis
cussion about another area of interest to 
women: how they are perceived and re
sponded to in the classroom. If you are 
interested in being involved in this discus
sion, in talking with other women on cam
pus to see how they are reacting or have 
been reacted to; in developing a conscious
ness about the effects of sexism in the 
classroom, then join us Thursday, March 
21, in Morewood Library. Sponsored by 
the Undergraduate Women's Task Com
mittee of the Affirmative Action Office.
personals
Anna,
Ti amo con di tutta mia lingua.
Carl
Special thanks to everyone who helped
make the Valentine Cookie Sale a success. 
The Women's Service Organization has 
donated the money to the Heart Fund in 
memory of Mr. Kenneth H. Fagerhaugh.
Triple A,
Ruby's love is the meat of a crab.
Soaper Girl,
Everything is up 
Nothing is down 
Hope is gone 
He left last midnight.
Red's from the east 
She might be found.
When she's found 
Lower your shields 
And I'll be around 
Everything is up 
Nothing is down.
Oscar. Oscar. 
Happy Birthday to the D. D. D.
-S. C.
Student Senate election petitions are avail
able at the Skibo Information desk. No 
experience necessary. Have a say in how 
C-MU is run and how your activities fee is 
spent. Elections to be held April 10th and 
llth.
A graduate social will be held On Saturday,
March 23, at 9 pm. in the Hillel Lounge, 
3rd floor, Y-l KC on Bellefield. Refresh
ments will be served and it is sponsored by 
B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish University 
Center.
C-MU's annual Arts & Crafts Festival will
be held during Spring Carnival Weekend 
(April 19-20). All interested crafts people 
register at Skibo Information Desk or call 
683-0477.
Attention! Attention! Attention! If you
are interested in organizing The Bicycle 
Rally or Paper Airplane Event or would 
like to design the Entrance to the Midway 
for C-MU's Spring Carnival, leave your 
name at Skibo Information Desk or call 
421-2736 and ask for Larry.
classifieds
Experienced Housesitter. Male graduate
student, available May through August. 
Likes animals. Prefer situation in or near 
Oakland. 621-6394.
Typing - Thesis - Term papers, professional
resumes - Notary. Office II, Chatham 
Center, 391-5000.
Bargain!: Epiphone acoustic guitar, Blackstone model (no longer made). Good for 
beginner or experienced guitarist. Good 
condition, w/ case. Worth $170, will accept 
best offer.
Alsosturdy, soft guitar case with 
shoulder strap. Originally $35, now $20. 
Contact Shelley at 682-4557.
3 Bedroom DuplexSq. Hill, Sublet w/l
year lease option. May 1, $195+,
421-6372.
Experienced Typist: will do term papers.
Theses, Resumes, Stencils, Mimeographing, 
etc. Accurate. 881-5328.
Wanted: used cycle, 350cc or larger, any
make or year. Contact Brad Morrow, 
681-4645.
Wedding Photography. Exquisite Results at
prices you can afford. Call 523-5660 
evenings, and anytime weekends.
For sale: Men's 27 inch 10-speed racer.
AMF. Never used. Call nights, 681-7395.
Wanted: Any information as to the where
abouts of The Evil Rolf BoDango; a/k/a 
The Swamp Demon; a/k/a Woody Fudella. 
Last known adderss: Oakley, Kansas;
where employed as used tractor salesman, 
August 1948-March 1950. Any individual 
having such information please contact 
Reginald Pierpont or Sir Percival Wads
worth c/o University Copy Service, 209 N. 
Craig St. 681-5411, (the 4 cent, 3 cent, 2 
cent copy service on the 2nd floor of the 
Earthworks Exchange Building.) Caution: 
Do not try to apprehend this man. He is 
considered muddy and dangerous and 
known to keep the company of trained 
man-eating muskrats.
Attention Staff: Elections for Editor-in-Chief and nominations for all 
other positions will be held Wednesday March 20th at 7:30 p.m. All 
present TARTAN staff members are asked to be there.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, March 19, 1974Page 5
Survey Results:
%
Quality First
by Steven Correll
A survey of contract holders shows that 
they value food quality more highly than 
^they do variety or seconds, according to 
^ the Student Senate Information Com
mittee.
The finding seems to contradict the de
mands of the leaders of Januarys Skibo 
boycott. That protest focused on the lack 
of seconds at Skibo.
But Information Committee Chairman 
James Johnston says that the students who 
yanswered the survey were split into two 
t groups, with one group favoring better 
quality over all alternatives, and another 
group favoring seconds over all alternatives.
(A survey taken shortly after the boy
cott by leaders of the boycott concluded 
that contract holders were dissatisfied with 
quality and that they would trade variety 
or seconds but that survey did not directly 
l contrast quality with seconds. Still another 
I survey, to be sponsored by Food Service 
itself, is in the works, but would not be 
taken until next semester. Unlike the other 
surveys, it would include Food Service 
customers who do not buy contract cards.)
Information Committee handed out the 
questionnaires during a special Valentines 
Day meal on February 13. Johnston says
4 that Food Service officials did not tell him 
I about the special meal until just before the 
cafeteria began serving it.
Some highlights of the survey results 
follow:
1. Would you prefer three entrees or two 
entrees and seconds?
Three entrees 102
Two entrees and seconds 317
Indifferent 34
CRAB Plans Publicity
by Debbie Siegel
A committee called CRAB has been 
formed to clarify admissions and orienta
tion procedures for handicapped applicants 
to CMU. CRAB, which stands for Com
mittee to Remove Architectural Barriers, is 
composed of two members of A PHI O and 
two members of the Womens Service Or
ganization.
Presently, there are no set procedures 
for showing handicapped students the uni
versity. As a private university, CMU is not 
compelled to provide a fool-proof system 
for students that are handicapped. Frank 
Colosimo, CMU ombudsman and chairman 
of the committee explained that the uni
versity has never set up a definite policy on 
handicapped students.
It is not the goal of the CRABs to 
make the campus meet ideal specifications 
for handicapped students. This would be 
millions of dollars and we cant even keep 
the buildings clean with economic alloca
tions now, said Colosimo.
CRAB was founded last year by Harry 
Rowell, Director of Operations, and Frank 
Colosimo, as advisor to A Phi O. The stu
dent motivation for the committee came 
from Mimi Blake, who travels on campus 
with a motorized wheel chair. Mimi and 
Aaron Clevenson, a member of CRAB,have 
gone to different buildings and analyzed 
their accessiblity for a handicapped person. 
If a building is accessible there is a way to 
get there with a wheel chair. A building is 
inaccessible if there is a flight of stairs. The 
first floor of Fine Arts, GS1A, the design 
department and psych department facilities 
on the 3rd floor of Baker Hall, and the 
gym, are considered inaccessible.
Id be willing to endorse strongly we 
maintain access to the fine arts basement.
Almost the whole building is accessible ex
cept for the first floor. There should be 
ramps into the basement floor. We goofed 
when we spent two million dollars rennovating fine arts and we didnt install 
ramps. Earl Swank, Dean of Academic 
Affairs, explained at a meeting with the 
CRAB committee.
Swank suggested the CRAB committee 
print a pamphlet based on past experience 
of handicapped students. The pamphlet 
could be distributed by the Admissions 
office or be included within introductory 
material to the university.
The different levels of handicapped in
dividuals must be defined. Handicapped 
students are usually divided into auditory, 
visual, and ambulatory disabilities. The 
pamphlet would identify CRAB and be an 
invitation to further questions. CRAB 
would escortvisitors and possibly give ad
vice on the feasibility for the applicant.
CRAB spoke with Bill Elliot of Ad
missions who wants to make information 
available about the campus, but doesnt 
want to use knowledge of a students 
handicap prior to admissions. Federal law 
regulates information which should be re
vealed on an application to alleviate stig
mas against applicants.
Any input to the committee can be di
rected to ombudsman Frank Colosimo.
RESEARCH
Thousands of Topics $2.75 per page 
Send for your up-to date, 160-page, 
mail order catalog. Enclose $1.00 
to cover postage (delivery time is 
1 to 2 days).
RESEARCH ASSISTANCE, INC. 
11941 WILSHIRE BLVD., SUITE #2 
LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90025 
(213) 477-8474 or 477-5493
Our research material is sold for research assistance only.
BNAI BRITH HILLEL-JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
BAGEL and LOX BRUNCH
at DUQUESNE UNIVERSITY 
SUNDAY MARCH 24 11 A.M.
SPEAKER: DR. LAWRENCE BLOCK 
TOPIC: "DRUGS and OUR SOCIETY" 
LOCATION: ROOM 608, DUO STUDENT UNION
2. Are you willing to accept Skibo as a 
closed cafeteria, like Morewood Gardens is 
at present?
IYes
No
Indifferent
165
173
70
3. Are you willing to accept food of lesser 
quality in return for larger servings?
Yes
No
 Indifferent 9
36
346
25
4. Are you willing to accept food of lesser 
quality in return for seconds?
Yes
No
Indifferent
92
288
27
EARN YOUR TUITION SELLING WORLD 
FAMOUS GOOD HUMOR ICE CREAM!
I\h
J
INTERVIEWS HELD DAILY 9-4 PM
GOOD HUMOR ICE CREAM
828 Third Street, Oakmont, Pa. 412-828-2840

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 19, 1974
Making It 
To Mexico
TARTAN ERROR
C-MU Professor Jose Varela-Ibarra of 
the Modern Languages Department has 
announced that finally, (C-MU is offering) 
summer session courses with a unique in
gredient: fun. He is referring here to the 
trip he will be conducting to Mexico this 
summer, between May 12 and June 30, 
which offers an educational experience that 
is a first at C-MU in more ways than the 
one mentioned.
According to Professor Varela-Ibarra, 
the trip is open to anyone, and to a num
ber of purposes. For students needing to 
finish the language requirement or who 
simply want to learn Spanish, classes will 
be offered at the intermediate level and 
well use a new programmed text for any
one just starting or not finished with first 
year. For students who are not necessarily 
Spanish majors and want to do a self or 
teacher-defined project in Mexico that has 
some relation to their own interests, all 
doors are open. He cites as an example of 
the latter type of project major Barbara 
Freemans (winner of the 1974 Heinz Tra
vel Award), which is a self-defined project 
involving a multi-media approach.
And of course, it is for Spanish majors 
too, says Professor Varela- Ibarra. But 
its really for any C-MU student who wants 
to have a beautiful experience, improve 
their Spanish, learn first-hand about Latin 
American culture ... or just break his or 
her uni-cultural limitations. Engineers, 
architects, fine arts, humanities majors. . . 
its for anyone.
He states that the itinerary will follow a 
guideline which includes Mexico City for 
about four or five weeks and travel through 
the country for two to three weeks with 
stops in Guadalajara, Pueblo, Cuernevaca, 
Saltillo, Monterrey . . . Saltillo is the airconditioned city; thats how its known. 
Monterrey is the Pittsburgh of New Mex
ico. Thats how its known.
Well stop at the beaches, natur
ally . .. near (not in) Acapulco.
Well have classes for two or three 
hours a day and spend the rest of the day 
participating in the numerous cultural act
ivities . . . interacting with the people, ex
ploring their past, present and future. The 
country and its principle cities will be our 
classrooms, and well also visit some of the
countryside.
The great thing is that tuition is cheap
er than staying here. Summer session in 
Mexico is $16 a unit. R and B is cheaper, 
too-hotel rates start at $2.10 (American 
dollars) per day, and food is estimated at 
about that price, too.
Travel for the Mexico trip will consist of 
flying to Texas and going through Mexico 
by land. Professor Varela-Ibarra states, 
Travel is very cheap, there. Theres no 
energy crisis. Mexico owns its own oil 
fields, and all gasoline stations are owned 
by the Mexican government. And all well 
really need to enter the country is a tourist 
card and proof of American citizenship. A 
voter registration card will do.
Professor Varela-Ibarra is familiar with 
the land and people of Mexico. He taught 
for four years at the University of Texas, 
and took groups of students to Mexico a 
number of times while he was there. He 
states, I know, I have seen, that going 
there is a fantastic learning experience for 
American students. In addition to his 
qualifications, he has a number of profess
ional friends in the universities there who 
have offered their assistance and hospital
ity to the C-MU group this summer.
(Note: 4 or 5 places are stilt open for the 
Mexico trip. Interested students should 
contact Professor Varela-Ibarra at 
521-4998 or at BH 268, or through the 
Modern Languages Department. He 
suggests that some students may be eligible 
for financial aid via C-MAP or the Financial 
Aid Office.)
People need fish, 
fish need clean water.
GIVE A HOOT DON'T POLUJTE
B'NAI BRITH HILLEL-JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
GRADUATE 
SOCIAL
SATURDAY MARCH 23 9 PM.
HILLEL LOUNGE, 3RD FLOOR Y-IKC ON BELLLFIELD
REFRESHMENTS
315 S. BELLEFIELD AVENUE (ACROSS FROM HEINZ CHAPEL)
621-8875
McCredie-New Dir. Computation Center
ter. Computer Science is a graduate 
The TARTAN erroneously listed Dr. department of MIS. The Computation \
John McCredie as the new director of Com
puter Science instead of Computation Cen
Summer Jobs: 
Work Study
Jobs both on campus and with agencies 
throughout the city of Pittsburgh are avail
able for the summer under the College 
Work-Study Program. Students may work 
40 hours per week.
The Work-Study Program, which was set 
up under the Economic Opportunity Act 
to create additional jobs for needy stu
dents, will begin this summer on either 
May 20 or May 28 (depending on our fed
eral allocation) and go thru August 24, 
1974. Positions are open on campus for 
library assistants, and in various depart
ments for lab assistants, research assistants 
and clerical work. Off campus jobs include 
tutorial, recreational, arts and crafts and 
clerical.
Any student who has filed a Parents 
Confidential Statement for the coming 
academic year 1974-75 is eligible to apply.
Please come to the Financial Aid Office 
no later than April 15, 1974 to complete 
an employment application for summer 
work study and make an appointment for 
an interview.
Center on the other hand is a branch of 
Operations.
Why the good neighbor went down to the docks.
Strange, but true: many a dock worker doesnt know how 
to swim. One step in the wrong directionand a man could 
be in deep trouble.
Which is why, in Los Angeles, the American Red CrossAmerica's Good Neighborgives a water survival safety 
course to non-swimming waterfront workers.
If you live far from the waterfront, this may not seem 
important to you.
But it represents just what Red Cross is all about.
Because The American Red Cross is a home town affair. 
That's why you find us doing different things in different 
home towns We're what you need us to be. Whoever you 
are. Wherever you are.
And isn't that what a Good Neighbor is all about?
Be a good neighbor. Help The Good Neighbor.
the good neighbor.
The American Red Cross
i
FLYING HOME
FRIDAY?
; TAKE THE A PHI O SHUTTLEBUS
| TO THE AIRPORT
ONLY $1.75
; LEAVE MOREWOOD 11:45 A.M. DONNER 
; 2:15 P.M.
! 4:45 P.M.
12:00 Noon 1 
2:30 P.M.  
5:00 P.M. j
| MAKE RESERVATIONS AT
 MOREWOOD MAIN DESK 
| SKIBO INFO DESK 
1 TARTAN TRAVEL OFFICE 
I 305 DONNER 
! B-102 HAMERSCHLAG

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAIM-Tuesday, March 19, 1974Page 7
Psych Head Pleased... 
Survey Points to Problems
by Tom Kendig
Communication problems and limited 
course offerings are the main concerns of 
Psychology students responding to a recent 
survey concerning the departments pro
gram.
The results were presented at the Mon
day, March 4 SAC meeting, which was 
attended by Dr. Lee Gregg, head of the 
Department.
Nineteen students also attended, out of 
the fifty-two who indicated in the survey 
that they would attend such a meeting.
One major complaint concerning the 
communication problems is that many stu
dents do not find out directly what is 
happening in the department, relying 
largely on rumor and hearsay for informa
tion. Many feel that Lois (a departmental 
secretary) is our main channel of communi
cation. According to many students, this 
is true not only for general information, 
but also for the advisee system, which the 
survey showed to be unsatisfactory. Many 
students felt that the advisory system is 
not what they expected such a system to 
be.
Students also cited the Departments 
course offerings and descriptions to be a 
source of confusion. The next catalog will
reportedly be more carefully written to in
sure more clarity.
Another issue raised is that of the role 
of the Department's chairman, Dr. Lee 
Gregg. Two of the non-tenured Psych profs 
who are leaving held administrative posi
tions, so Dr. Gregg, in assuming their 
responsibilities, becomes head of the De
partments computer facilities, and grad
uate and undergraduate studies, along with 
his role as Department head and his own 
teaching and research. Some students won
der whether one man can carry such a load 
without overextending himself.
Another important item brought up in 
the survey is that the department does not 
offer courses in proportion to student in
terest in various aspects of Psychology. 
Twenty percent of surveyed students ex
pressed interest in personality and social 
psych courses, but only 10 percent of the 
departments courses are in those areas. 
Likewise, interest inclinical and counseling 
psych far exceed course offerings.
Possible solutions to many of these is
sues were discussed at the meeting. General 
departmental unity is being dealt with to 
some extent on a social level. A recent 
departmental party will hopefully pave the 
way for such unity. There is also a possibil
ity of the establishment of a Psychology
lounge, an idea which President Cyert is 
backing. Problems with finding space for 
such a lounge are now being discussed.
At a recent Presidential luncheon 
attended by student representatives of the 
department, according to one student, 
(Provost) Weber and Cyert seem to give 
the impression there is a good possibility of 
two Personality-Clinical courses being 
added in the near future.
Steve Michaels, author of the survey, 
stated: It seems obvious from the findings 
in the survey there is a necessity for some 
change in the Psych Department. Do the 
students needs and wants affect the 
courses offered and other departmental 
policies seems to be one question raised.
Dr. Gregg is at present very pleased with 
the psychology department. He thinks the 
main reason the English department gets 
such a large number of students at their 
SAC meetings is that the English depart
ment is unhappier than we are. He would 
like to see something like a gripe board, a 
place where students could voice their 
complaints. As a preliminary response to 
the survey (Dr. Gregg had not yet seen the 
results). Dr. Gregg said the department will 
first look to three area, I) improving the 
courses, 2) broadening courses and, 3) im
proving the advisory system.
McCurdy Favors 
Combined 
Funding
continued from p. 1
McCurdy commented that a great many 
exceptional programs go almost un
attended because of little or no promotion. 
He is in favor of a proposal to combine the 
funding of several departments within 
CMU under one organization which would 
administer, rather than control, spending, 
and would insure ample publicity for con
certs and lectures that are now within the 
province of the Fund.
31 MILLION EX-SMOKERS: 
ARE YOU ONE OF THEM? 
If you are, the Tuberculosis League 
of Pittsburgh would like to know 
how you did it. Just write out your 
habit - breaking story and send it to 
the TB League, 2851 Bedford Ave. 
Pittsburgh 15219. 
The most helpful tips and tricks 
will be printed in a new booklet to 
help other people quit smoking. 
Wont you help? Kicking the habit 
is really a matter of Life...and .Breath
Taj Mahal Restaurant
5151 Clairton Blvd , Route 51, South
 NOWOPEN 
Distinctive Indian Cuisine 
Buffet Thur.: $4.75 per Person
FOR RESERVATIONS CALL 881 9500
Akadama Mama says,Be Nice to Mice
This w'eeks letters 
were kind of 
dull, but I did get 
a neat package. rj
It contained a home * %
built mouse trap. Not 
one of those hurtful, snapper, killer.
5 & 10 things. But a genuine cant-hurtyou -and -Im -sorry - if-I -seared -you k i nd 
of a thing. It was made of scrap wood 
and window screen (see ill us.) and I got 
a very together friend of mine to do a 
blueprint and instructions. I also have 
a friend with a copy machine, so ifyoud 
like a copy of the plan just mail me the 
mouse coupon.
Now that weve been nice 
to mice, I'd like to give you a 
couple of my favorite Akadama 
recipes that will be nice to you.
THE VODKADAMA
Its almost harder to 
pronounce than it istomake. 
Just mix one part Akadama 
Red and one part Vodka, 
then add a twist of lemon 
and a nicely amount of ice.
SANGRIA AKADAMA
A bottle of Akadama 
Red. a pint of club soda,
>
of ice and lemon and orange slices. 
To make more just double, triple or 
quadruple everything.
Listen to Mama, 
and pass the Akadama.
The wine you can mix.
/ ____
/ N /' NX .
\ \ )
SC\" TTJ - TSBt ar n/ N N < /\
/-w_L2---------------------------1 i
\  Mail to: Bo Nice To Mice \ *' / J
f ^ \ P.O. Box 2(529 /
^s j Palos Wrdcs Peninsula. C'a. 90274 |
LriA
\
f & instructions on me.
I Name_________-----
 Address _______
/ S'. I State
Akadama Mama, please lay a copy of | 
your very together friend's blueprints
I 
I 
IZip CocU
j f \ 0 l m checking this box because 
 / I Akadama is pic king up the postage and| 
1 * | they uouk1lid like it if I also asked vou to
m of a can of frozen lemon-N ' >4 pass an Akadama recipe card.
ade concentrate, plenty *5* vim   1 >>> sr.!..rv tm. .nati.muM ,\ t.,

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8^-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 19, 1974
A Streaker Named Desire
by Rob Simbeck
EVERY DAY 
OF THE WEEK
STREAKERS 
SPECIAL
Each Adult Member of Your Party
JUICY
More than V2 lb. of 
Ground Steak with 
French Fries
unlimited steak dinners
NORTH HILLS, PA. 931-6
4611 McKnight Road
MONROEVILLE, PA. 824-1
3500 William Penn Highway (Rt. 22)
Last Thursday night, like most nights, 
was proceeding rather slowly. I was trying 
to beat the boredom by working on my 
overdue Psychology midterm semi-final. It 
wasnt working.
Personal View__________
At 11:05 a reporter for this very news
paper poked his head sheepishly into my 
doorway, and announced, Theres a 
rumored streak at Chatham tonight in 
. . . He checked his watch. . . . 55 
minutes. Wanna go?
Well, after all, I was his News Editor, 
and this did sound like the kind of news 
story Id wait years for out in the real 
world ... So, with all the professional dig
nity 1 could muster, I said, For Christs 
sake man, of course Ill go. While breezing 
past him into the hall, I managed to add, 
over my shoulder, I think I can get us a 
ride.
I pushed open the heavy Boss Hall door, 
and started toward Hammerschlag. On the 
way, I happened to look up. I stopped 
dead for a moment. The moon was full, 
and shining like the face of a fat derelict 
under a streetlight. I smiled, and felt calmjuice pushing through my veins like sap. 
So, the universe is ordered; things like this 
have cause, I thought to maself.
Beer, I muttered.
What? queried my friend.
I was just thinking that wed better 
pick up some beer along the way, so that 
even if this things a hoax, the night wont 
be a total waste.
Oh, yeah, I see your point, he said, as 
though I were Da Vinci and Id just ex
plained my idea for a helicopter to him.
I knocked on the door where my room
mate and a friend were watching TV.
Come in.
Theres a good possibility of a streak at 
Chatham at midnight, I said.
Neither looked very excited at first, but 
I gathered that the friend was holding back 
a little because my roommate is a vehe
ment anti-sexist.
Wefi \ are you interested? I was a little
 the<hfiito*a^4!ay.iWm aa"^M
I finally got the friend, the car. and the 
beer. We were on the Chatham campus by 
11:35. Driving up the wooded hill to the 
main campus area in our little yellow 
Gremlin, we came upon a crowd of maybe 
300 people (the Pittsburgh Press and PostGazette estimates of 600 people seem a 
little out of line with what I remember), a 
buzzing air of anticipation, and the Chat
ham security force. While the force was 
escorting our car off campus, we heard a 
Chathamite say, More boys. . . Oh. my 
God. She apparently had not known that 
some of her fellow students had called the 
Pittsburgh dailies, some Pitt students, and 
some C-MU students earlier in the day.
We left the campus, parked the car, and 
started walking back up the hill, each with 
two beers in our pockets, and one in our 
hands.
When we got back to the crowds we 
realized that there were enough males that 
their Security force could not have been 
very worried. We mingled for awhile.
There was a kind of excitement every
where. It was fairly obvious that this was 
what Chatham had been waiting for awhile. 
It beat going to bed early, and the partici
pants were rapidly acquiring heroic pos
ture.
I checked the sky once more. The moon 
was tucked away behind a lot of ominous 
rain clouds, and thunder growled occasion
ally in the distance.
Then, at approximately 11:51, I heard 
one of the loudest peals of thunder I have 
ever heard. It was accompanied by Gods 
own flashbulb.
Some people cheered. A few questioned 
Gods tolerance of the situation. I reached 
for my notebook.
The crowd murmured for a few mo
ments. I checked out the course: the dor
mitory sat at the top of a hill. A driveway 
from the dorm led down past us and over 
toward their library. All eyes were fixed on 
the dorm. At 1 1:53 a cheer went up from 
the people closest to the top of the hill. I 
looked up, and what followed precludes 
words, although, of course, I haVe to try. 
Girls were literally pouring out of the door. 
Most wearing just shoes and socks, some 
wearing only opened blouses, and a few 
carrying towels in front of themselves. 
After 30 or 40 had come out, I realized 
that they meant business. There were may
be 60 ot them, running past us toward tne 
library. Their security force was clearing 
the way, looking calm, as if this were an 
ordinary Phys Ed jog. About half of the 
crowd ran alongside them for awhile, pre
sumably to absorb as much of the pheno
menon as possible. The women ran up an 
adjoining hill toward another dormitory, 
and when they reached it, it looked as 
though the romp was over.
Onlookers stopped running, and let out 
with a hearty ovation.
The reporter and I had lost track of our 
friend, but we knew what came next. 
Quotes! we gasped at each other. A 
Security man was standing alone, so we 
approached him. What do you think? I 
asked him.
You seen one. you seen 'em all, he 
offered.
Sensing that the event would have to 
stand or fall on its own merits, we walked 
away.
The streakers had gone by the library 
and were heading back to the original 
dorm. A few people applauded, but the 
main body of bystanders had dispersed. It 
was raining obtrusively.
A thought crossed my mind. This hadnt 
been a streak. Once again a word a con
cepthad been bastardized in its infancy. ^ 
A streak is when some nude people run, 
unannounced, through a crowd and get 
away before anybody has sense enough to 
do something. The Chatham affair had 
been a well-planned, well-publicised naked 
jog around the campus. What they should 
have done, 1 mused, was to run across the 
C-MU campus, unannounced, at some ran
domly selected daylight hour. Somehow, V 
their version gave it an aspect it shouldnt 
have had. Chatham women would have to 
make up reasons for the streak. (That 
turned out to be true-the next day the 
Pittsburgh papers carried the girls reasons. 
One, the Denenberg political campaign, 
stands out especially.)
At this point the whole thing became 
less romantic, less non- meaningful. I was  
ready to leave quietly. But then, as we 
were walking away, a dark-haired girl wear
ing only a terry-cloth robe, stopped and 
looked at us.
Did you enjoy the show, boys? she 
asked, calmly, but with a hint of bitterness 
in her voice. None of us moved.
This isnt a sexist operation, she 
added. j
It worked. We walked away, and I 
couldnt help wondering what was going 
on.
fc* w 11 'it' ^
ray rtformnate.-, * 
d the fallowing qtfHtkrft. with a look 
that pulled my insides into the room, from 
my eyes down to my toes: Would you go 
that far to see a bunch of guys streaking?
By that time, though, my mind had 
been matte up. It was a valiant try, but I 
was ready. Hell no, I said. You dont 
pass up an event like this for half-baked 
ethical considerations. Id seen a male 
streak already, and I felt I owed it to 
J myself to see a female streak, since fate 
I had opened the door for me. What will /
I tell my grandchildren I thought, if I pass 
this up? Memorable experiences dont just 
grow on trees, especially if you spend the 
| critical moments pondering things. Besides, 
curiosity has drawn me to a number of 
 strange places, and Ive never even thought 
of regretting any of them, with the possible 
exception of the time an alligator started 
walking toward me in Okeefenokee 
Swamp, in Georgia. .
w&Vc- becru

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 19, 1974-Page 9
The House 
that Bros. Built
Ed. Note: This is the follow-up article to 
an interview with Tech Houses Father 
Walsh, in which he discussed, among other 
things, his educational concerns and the 
goals of Tech House. For this second art
icle, Tartan reporter Mary Cowin was in
vited to dinner to discuss life in the Co-op 
with the student residents: how it works 
and the advantages and disadvantages of 
living there.
by Mary Cow in
Visiting Tech House, it is easy to see 
that this co-op attracts a diversity of 
people: architects, musicians, engineers, 
and social relations majors, to name a few. 
The residents range in year from sopho
mores to seniors. Most first became in
volved with the house in going over for 
dinner, and all noted that they had felt 
welcome from the moment they walked 
in, though they mentioned that it took 
awhile to really get comfortable with the 
people there.
According to the eight students, Tech 
House offers a number of advantages over 
dorm living or living in the other co-ops. 
They say the food is better and much less 
expensive than on Food Contract, and that 
Tech House offers them a privacy that the 
dorms cant. The students feel much more 
relaxed here, and consider Tech House to 
be their home in the real sense of that 
word.
Steve Falatko states that, This place 
allows you to be more civilized. You can 
come down to breakfast when you want 
and see whoever you care to.
Frank Napoli summed the co-ops quali
ties by saying, This house has every ad
vantage of living on campus, plus every 
advantage of living off campus.
Do all the advantages make a difference 
in the educational experience? The stu
dents contend that they do. A realization 
of John Newmans educational theories 
(discussed by Father Walsh in the March 5 
edition of the TARTAN), they agree as a 
group that living in the co-operative situa
tion with students of different disciplines
does indeed give them insights into subjects 
they might not otherwise be familiar with, 
and in addition, gives them a broader per
spective on their own disciplines when 
seen with several pairs of eyes.
For these students, however, the most 
striking advantage of Tech House is Father 
Walsh. They relate emphatically that he is 
a man of tremendous experience, and in
valuable to Tech Houses operation as an 
educational co-op. The other co-ops just 
dont have such people (as a part of 
them).
Tech House may have its advantages, 
but residence has its responsibilities, too.
Each resident does the cooking one day a 
week, and each has an area of the house to 
clean. They also do most of their own 
maintenance. The residents maintain that 
they arent terribly strict with each other 
about most of the responsibilitiesexcept 
cooking meals.
Does the religious nature of the house 
(officially Tech Christian Fellowship) pre
sent any drawbacks in terms of its belong
ing to the university? Resident Tom Lang 
feels that, Many of the people in the 
university, recognizing that this is the seat 
of the Catholic Chaplaincy here, believe 
that anyone coming here will be con
fronted with religious zealots. This is not at 
all the case. There are religious functions, 
but they dont dominate. The house is 
open for other functions and is used by 
other groups.
The people of Tech House are satisfied 
with the co-operative arrangement . . . that 
it works, and expressed a desire to see 
more of the same experiments on campus. 
Stated one resident. C-MU does not make 
full use of the places here which could be 
used for experimental houses. Another 
concern expressed was that more faculty 
members be involved.,
We have our problems, noted one 
resident over dinner, but we work on 
them and they don't overwhelm us . . . 
Places like this present fantastic opportun
ities. The only problem is that so few want 
to give it a try. 
PASSOVER INFORMATION
For Students and Faculty
Those students wishing home hospitality for 
Festival Days, April 6 and 7,April 13 and/or 
14, And all those desiring to participate in our
HILLEL CAMPUS COMMUNITY SEDAR
Sunday, April 7
And All Those desiring Passover meals at the 
H i I lei Dining Club, Call the Hillel Office by 
March 22.
621-8875
315 S. BELLEFIELD AVENUE (ACROSS FROM HEINZ CHAPEL)
Sign or Serve
Failure to register with the Selective 
Service System within the time prescribed 
by law has resulted in indictments against a 
number of Western Pennyslvania residents.
The indictiments came from a Federal 
grand jury on March 7. This is the first 
time since the late 1960s that such indict
ments were returned.
According to Richard L. Thornburgh, 
U.S. attorney for Western Pennsylvania, six 
defendants were charged, and more indict
ments are likely to follow.
Asst. U.S. Attorney David M. Curry out
lined the present Selective Service System: 
Even though no men will presently be in
ducted into the armed forces through the 
Selective Service System, the law requires 
every male citizen and alien males residing 
in the United States to register with the 
Selective Service System no later than 30 
days following their eighteenth birthday.
According to Mr. Curry, those who do 
not register may subject themselves to 
prosecution and possible penalties of im
prisonment for not more than five years 
and a fine of Si0,000 or both.
?VINGMEN
"A ONE MAN SHOW"
Saturday  March 30  9 P.M.
Donation $3.50/person B'nai Israel Congregation
Information: 661-0252 327 N. Negley Ave. (East End)
Mr. Amen will discuss his woodwork techniques.
ART AUCTION
Including Amen and hundreds of other pieces
Sunday  March 31
Viewing 1 p.m. and 7 p.m.
Auction 2 p.m. and 8 p.m.
Sponsored by B nai Israel Young Adult 
Congregation for the benefit of the Nursery School.
important
r * i
lu#l
in a medically safe procedure of plasma dona
tion to help make available critically needed 
therapeutic products derived from plasma. 
All participants are financially compensated and 
can earn $60.00 per month for their contribution. 
Please call now for details of how you can 
become a plasma donor ... Call: 682-3190 ... 
Hours 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
SERA TEC BI0L0GICALS
3409 FORBES AVENUE / PITTSBURGH, PA. 15213

---------------------------------------------------

Page 1-THE TARTAN -Tuesday, March 19, 1974
There are grinders, heros. hoagies. 
bombers, torpedos and submarines. 
They're all the same. Cylinder-shaped sand
wiches launching unexpected intestinal, 
gastronomical warfare. On my homeground 
they are called heros because that is what 
you are it'you can finish one. In Pittsburgh 
they are hoagies when they are cold and 
submarines when heated. In the midwest 
they are called sandwiches but this is open 
to argument. The general content begins 
with a big roll resembling an Italian bread 
but not quite as long. Filled with shredded 
lettuce, carrots, chopped tomatoes, cucum
bers. peppers, onions, mushrooms, steaks, 
hams, cheeses, mayonaisse, mustards and 
secret sauces, submarines are the con
densed version of a balanced dinner. 
Usually sold at a condensed price. Sub
marines are so popular that there are stores 
in Pittsburgh that house nothing but sub
marines.
Another submarine house is the Wooden 
Keg on Forbes Avenue opposite McDon
alds in Oakland. The Wooden Keg is not 
the place with the barrels in the front. It 
has an illustration of a barrel on the sign, 
though. At the Wooden Keg we had a hot 
pepper-steak hoagie which was the finest 
sandwich I digested in all my torpedo tra
vels. The roll was hot and fresh, there was 
plenty of salad cheese peppers and steak 
but there was a bit too much oil. The 
Wooden Keg sub overflows and is difficult 
to conquer without half of it falling on 
your lap. A half of a hoagie was SI. 13 and 
large enough to fill a luncheon appetite.
Rudy's House of the Submarine is in 
Squirrel Hill and someone thinks Rudy's is 
good eats cause Rudy has five locations. 
They have spread themselves thin, and 
their product proves it. At Rudy's you 
order one of the possible 20 submarine 
varieties and take it out to eat because the 
place lacks atmosphere. Also chairs. There 
is a table for those who can't wait to hit 
the front stoop but empty soda cans and 
dirty napkins crawl along the top. For 
what their subs are worth it's better to eat 
them elsewhere. The sandwiches at Rudys 
are all steak. Steak-cheese, steakmushroom, steak-mushroom cheese, steakpepper, and so on. There is also the Rudy's 
Special Steak Submarine. It is the steakcheese-mushroom with peppers. The pep
pers make a vast difference because the 
steak-cheese-mushroom is lousy and the 
Special is somewhat superior. The special is 
made with a fresh roll while the not-soSpecial isn't. Also the meat in the Special is 
hotter, has less fat. more tomatoes, not 
much cheese (the cheese-mushroom has no 
cheese) and is bigger. Otherwise the only
difference is 20 cents. Rudy's is on Murray 
Avenue and Phillips Street.
Broudy's, on Penn and Negley Avenues, 
is a bar with a restaurant. Broudys doesn't 
specialize in submarine sandwiches but sells 
a steak and cheese with fried onions and 
it's terrific. The choice of cheese is yours 
and there is so much that it occasionally 
becomes an interference. The steak is not 
like the wafer steaks in most other sub
marines but is a flat ground meat pat tie. 
Everything in the Broudy sandwich is laid 
flat out. It is arranged in one undistracting 
texture but there was more cheese on my 
sandwich than you can get on a pizza so 
there are no qualms. Broudys is a totally 
integrated bar, which seems unusual for 
Pittsburgh. Broudy is probably Irish, the 
barkeep was black, the cook was Italian, 
the clientele was black and white with an 
even number of men and women. 
Additionally, since Broudy's is a bar you 
may drink with your sub. You can eat in 
booths and though its a grongey place on 
the outside, the inside has a nice homey 
atmosphere.
Most any pizzeria sells hoagies. We 
sampled Antoninos and though he makes 
great Pittsburgh pizza his heroes stink and 
maybe should've gone unmentioned here. 
Pizza should probably stick with pizza. If 
you must have a submarine, have it at a 
place that makes them.
In Hiroshima, Japan, fashion-conscious 
girls are coloring their teeth to match their 
fingernails. Shades range from pearl white 
to pink and violet.
by Stacey Robin Kimbell
QED Events On Wednesday, April 3rd. 
QED will run the interesting historicaltheatrical film George Washington: Portrait
of a Hero as a Young Man which was 
filmed on location in the Pittsburgh area of 
Fort Duquesne. The film stars Rene Auberjonois. a C-MU graduate and magnificent 
actor.
On Saturday. April 6th. QED will present 
Arthur Millers play A Memory of Two 
Mondays, to be shown at 10:00 p.m. The 
production stars Jack Warden and Estelle 
Parsons in a stark portrayal of blue-collar 
life in the 1930's.
Bette Davis The wonderful actress Bette 
Davis will present her unique touring pro
gram package of film nostalgia including 
clips from 13 of her greatest films and a 
question and answer period on April 2nd at 
7:30 p.m. in Heinz Hall. The films include 
Of Human Bondage, Dark Victory, and 
Jezebel. Tickets for the Bette Davis appear
ance are $7.50. S6.50, and S5.50, and are 
available at Heinz Hall, the department 
stores; tickets purchased at Heinz Hall will 
receive a student ID discount. Call Dorothy 
Bates, promotion lady, at 281-8185 for 
further information.
The Breakfast, Or Mister Floods Party
She pedaled past the window again.
And rode to the patch where the path ends, 
The place where the trees begin.
I sat at the table next to the window 
A nd saw her walk to the edge of the woods. 
And it was Breakfast: scrambled eggs, 
Toaste, orange marmalade, and coffee.
Breakfast.
flitting the dishes away, / stood by the window 
Because it was time for her to reappear.
She came out of the woods and pedaled 
Under the window.
"(rood morning. Mister h'lood. "
Hello there. Would you like some breakfast?" 
/ don V . . . 
/ 're got eggs and a pot of coffee ready to go.  
No, thank you, sir. "
She stood under the window 
And looked down at her shoes.
'Mister Flood,they've found her. They've found 
Part of her. Her head and her legs.
Bette Davis will appear at Heinz Hall April 2nd.
Bonnie and Clyde The great film by Arthur 
Penn, director of Little Big Man, among 
others, will be presented on Sunday, April 
7th. in the Wherret Room of Skibo at 7:00 
and 9:30 p.m., admission is 75 cents, 
cheap. The film is considered to be 
practically flawless, possibly the best movie 
made in the last decade.
Poetry Forum If youll be around during 
the Spring Vacation, Dame Judith Ander
son, the world-reknowned actress, will pre
sent a program of readings from the poems 
and plays of William Shakespeare and 
Robinson Jeffers on March 29th at 8:1 5 in 
Carnegie Music Hall. Admission is S3, S4, 
and S5, tickets available at the department 
stores and at the Forum box office in Oak
land. as well as the Pit I Student Union.
The Back Door
university coffeehouse 
Brings Back
Hogans Heroes - 
a barbershop quartet
FRIDAY, MARCH 22 10 p.m. -1 a.m.
no admission charge 
food
Rodef Shalom Basement 
Corner 5th and Morewood 
Entrance  Rear Parking Lot
James Flood

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 19, 1974Page 11
=
Beauti/ & The Bes!'
by Mark Evan Chimsky
If we are to believe in Hollywood, 
everyone in the world was weaned on Hel
ena Rubenstein. In this age of specializa
tion, the movies are quick to corner the 
glamor market. With the imminent arrival 
of The Great Gatsby, Hollywood proves 
itself the entrepreneur of the American 
Ideal. Who needs a Websters or an Oxford 
Dictionary when Hollywood provides us 
with a keen and current definition of 
beauty?
She delicately colors her lines with all 
the care of a great painter. Real, but never 
commonplace, Ms. Jackson is Enigmatic 
Woman-hard yet vulnerable, melancholy 
yet bright. Her face translates emotion into 
a physical thing, and it is beautiful.
More traditionally beautiful, though 
perhaps less interesting, are Dominique 
Sanda (of The Conformist and The Garden 
of the Finzi-Continis) and Julie Christie. 
Their faces are lovely and redundant; there 
is little mystery to their magic. In contrast,
the Shrew, Whos Afraid of Virginia 
Woolf?), and with intelligent direction, she 
can even make herself a complex, believ
able being, (Cat on a Hot Tin Roof, 
Suddenly Last Summer). Wrap Liz in any
thing violet and shes magnificent for life. 
Director Francois Truffaut knew what he 
was doing when he granted Jeanne Moreau 
the part of the ever-restless Catherine in 
Jules and Jim. She is a living face from a 
Modigliani painting, and her expressions 
are varied and maintain an exquisite inhim an Oscar nomination for The Sting?), 
he has a hers countenance; strong, charm
ing, and blond. Why not fall in love with 
him? But because of his looks, which 
approach pretty-boy categorization, his 
acting has received little attention. (The 
French actor, Jean Marais was also a victim 
of his own attractiveness, and it wasnt 
until Jean Cocteau assigned him the role of 
the horrible monster in his version of 
Beauty and the Beast that Marais dramatic 
ability was recognized.) Redford is a 
resourceful, consistently good actor in
And what have we learned from it? 
Maybe only that life all too foolishly imi
tates art. Ideals are presented, and pro
moted as if on cue, we genuflect. What is 
real about plastic prettiness? Where is the 
humanity in a Burt Reynolds or a Raquel 
Welch? Molded of fantasies, they are such 
stuff as dreams are made of--to reconcile 
them to a reality is to encourage the 
myth-bound stereotypes of the muscletoned male and the vacuous, voluptuous 
female. These stars approach the inani
mate; they constitute an exaggerated sex
uality, larger than life and less than human. 
Possessing none of the vulnerability that 
beauty demands, these sex symbols cannot 
urge our love. They are there merely for 
our groins appreciation-not our hearts.
Sages say Beauty is only skin deep; 
unfortunately, skin alone is not exception
ally talented; but there are those rare cases, 
in todays cinema, where talent and phy
sical attractiveness coalesce to form a 
special kind of beauty.
I could watch Glenda Jackson forever, 
and still be captivated by her almondshaped eyes and her ironic smile.
Jane Fonda has the kind of face that seems 
to dare the world. Light years away from 
soft, she nevertheless expresses a fierce sus
ceptibility to lifes little pains. One of this 
countrys best dramatic actresses, she has a 
cool classiness that is dynamite on screen. 
Of the many other younger, contemporary 
actresses, only Vanessa Redgrave achieves a 
wistful and angular (though somewhat 
anemic) radiance. All the newly acclaimed 
goddesses of the screen, among them Ali 
McGraw and the urchin-faced star of The 
Great Gatsby, Mia Farrow, wane in com
parison.
Heading the list of beautiful, older act
resses is the darkly brilliant Anne Bancroft. 
Her face articulates an entire history 
simply by expression. There is a sad dignity 
about this woman which makes her ideal 
for tragic-comedies. Closely akin to Ms. 
Bancroft in both appearance and style is 
the Greek actress, Irene Pappas. Though 
she has never attained a deservedly wide
spread acclaim, the raven-liaired. brooding
eyed Ms. Pappas moves us with her stoic 
beauty.
Elizabeth Taylor has a classic bitchgoddess face. She spits well, (Taming of
tenseness.
Katherine Hepburn is the wry, grande 
dame^ of ageless femininity. Her perfor
mances are sharp and witty; she takes 
possession of a role as if she were some 
enchanted spirit. The moment those lips 
begin trembling, and the eyes well with 
tears, we are hers. She is a luminous mis
tress of her art.
My favorite Hollywood beauties are the 
ugly ducklings who defy the camera to see 
them as anything but swans. Barbra Streis
and and Liza Minnelli, my dynamic duo, 
prove that the human landscape need not 
be made artificial in order to be attractive. 
They are the exceptions to the American 
Ideal, they insist on composing their own 
rules. Inviting identification, their faces 
launched a thousand hopes-women could 
be dazzling on their own terms, without 
having to strive for the polished perfection 
of a Raquel Welch. Style becomes beauty, 
and Barbra and Liza are gorgeous.
Now for the men. Mention Robert Red
ford and hearts skip beats. This Great Gats
by seems to be on everyones mind; not to 
mention on Newsweeks cover. Star of the 
Year, (what else could possibly have won
search of an ugly role which will allow 
us to objectively view his acting ability. 
Gatsby will challenge his talent, but so far, 
the pictures publicity merely concentrates 
on reinforcing his physical appeal.
Paul Newman plays his looks for all 
theyre worth, (which is a mint of box 
office money), yet manages to deliver 
skilled, effective performances every time 
around. He has not shirked his duties as an 
actor in favor of his classically sculpted 
face.
There are other male actors who con
form less to the American Ideal, but win us 
with their charisma. These include Warren 
Beatty, and Alan Bates, who renders each 
characterization rich and fiery with his in
trospective sensitivity Completing this list is 
George Segal, a marvelously versatile actor 
who conveys a brisk, if somewhat frantic, 
sincerity which is both funny and touch
ing.
Thats my list of lucky stars. They re
flect my personal taste alone. Physical 
beauty without that inner glow becomes 
hollow, shell-like. We must not content 
ourselves with false idols. The real is our 
province-as the writer E.M. Forster said, 
we need only connect.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-THE TARTANTuesday, March 19, 1974
TODD RUNDGREN & UTOPIk
 " ---------------- ' ...................... ' .......1
by Arnie Karr and Terry Cay wood
Wait another year. Utopia is here.
Todd Rundgren was speaking both liter
ally and figuratively when he sang these 
words on A Wizard A True Star a year 
ago, for his new band (and it's the best lies 
ever toured with) is Utopia and Utopia is 
the dream that Rundgren and his troupe 
are trying to lead their audiences to. It may 
be an unrealistic dream and. as yet. only 
loosely defined, but it is a new direction 
for a man best remembered as a pop maes
tro in the face of his success with 45's and 
love songs. And. at least on Friday night. 
Todd was able to sell his vision to an en
thusiastic Syria Mosque audience. The 
March 15th concert was an unqualified suc
cess.
Rundgrens experiences in music have 
taken him to all corners of the rock sphere. 
Three albums with Nazz, on which he was 
the songwriter and lead guitarist, led to 
engineering and production work for 
people like The Great Speckled Bird, the 
American Dream. James Cotton. Paul 
Butterfield. Badfinger. the Band and Grand 
Funk Railroad. He was so disillusioned 
with his initial dream of rock stardom that 
he avoided group membership, choosing 
the solo route instead. The first solo al
bums (Runt, The Ballad of Todd Rundgren 
and Something/Any thingg?) contained 
some of the finest potential Top Forty 
material ever made. We Gotta Get You A 
Woman. Long Flowing Robe. Be Nice 
to Me and A Long Time. A Long Way to
Go. all on the first two solo efforts, were 
superb rock achievements, but never be
came national hits. Instead, they brought 
him more recognition as "the kid from 
Philly who can do it all.
Some unexplainable link between engin
eering ability and formula hit- making was 
conjured up. and a growing number of 
Rundgren fans came to expect words of 
love with major and minor seventh musical 
accompaniment from him. Something/ 
Anything'., released in 1972. was the ful
fillment of that promise. Included on it 
were such memorable and hum-able pop 
tunes as I Saw the Light, It Wouldn't 
Have Made Any Difference" and a success
ful new arrangement of Nazzs classic 
Hello It's Me. (As he asked at the con
cert. Who else?)
Something/Any thing?, to Todd's way of 
thinking, was the last of his albums dwell
ing on the possessive, selfish love affair. 
and A Wizard-A True Star, the first of his 
vinyl cosmotherapy sessions. Being ex
posed to so many facets of the rock genre, 
Rundgren is now aiming to be the Buck
minster Fuller of rock. The problem is that 
the lyrical meaning and melodic complex
ity of the music is growing much faster 
than his audience's ability to comprehend. 
Todd realizes this but hes not overly 
worried. For one, he has put the hits 
into a satisfactory perspective by singing 
them during the first half of the show. 
Re-mixes of the studio versions are used as
back-up. which he refers to as  . . . a logi
cal progression of the music-minus-one 
concept. This frees him to utilize his band 
Utopia for only the new material, con
serving energy and talent at the same time.
Secondly. Rundgren is a self-paced artist 
and feels that it is not vital for his aud
iences to be on his level. His awareness, 
which he speaks of honestly and immodest
ly. must be the driving force. He cannot 
pretend to be on the audience's level of 
consciousness, as this would deter his con
siderable creative progress. Only an artist 
of so many facets can afford such an atti
tude.
Lastly, the performance of Todd's work 
enhances it. He is a great guitarist- nimble 
fingered and tasteful-and a decent pianist 
working with a unified body of smart 
back-up musicians (among them Mark 
Klingman and Ralph Schuckett). Todd, his 
latest album, includes a few of the old-style 
songs (Izzat Love and the symbolic new 
single, The Dream Goes On Forever) but 
some of the other cuts suffer from track 
overkill. Just too much is going on. The 
visual presentatiogives it some credibility 
and a degree of authority. The duplication 
of the electronic sounds (courtesy of main 
Moog-man, M. Frog) is almost perfect. The 
virtuosity of the musicians help you view 
Todd as an achievement, rather than as a 
fabrication.
It is still difficult to view songs like
Heavy Metal Kids as anything more than 
Rundgren's melodic alliance with Lou 
Reed, David Bowie and other scribes of 
urban and suburban decay. Perhaps the 
problem here is that it contradicts the in
nocence of his earlier songs. Todd lost that 
innocence long ago, and is now not in
terested in writing about it anymore.
The sense of humor is still very much 
there, and it is a welcome reminder that 
Todd still knows when not to take himself 
too seriously. During Zen Archer, he 
dodges imaginary arrows crossing from the 
left to the right speakers. He becomes 
Tinkerbell for his rendition of Never 
Never Land. During the first half of the 
show, he runs around entirely too much. 
And you love him for it.
Whether or not the concept of Utopia 
can succeed is yet to be seen, but Todd 
Rundgren has a head full of ideas about 
things yet to be done. He will continue to 
grow from his experiences as a producer 
and engineer. (Check out the new Grand 
Funk package.) And, being that he is now 
performing better than weve ever seen him 
perform, especially in terms of the strength 
and effect of his voice, perhaps he can 
maintain his link to the audience and work 
to improve it, rather than allow it to dis
solve.
After a concert that illuminated much 
of his recent work, it is gratifying to know 
that, success or failure, Todd Rundgrens 
dream will go on forever.
23 Designers
by C. Infante & T. Caywood
Twenty-three designers couldnt have 
made an uglier poster, but its not charac
teristic of the quality of the exhibition on 
the 5th floor of the Hunt Library.
Impressivethats what it is the first 
time round. What gives the show much of 
its professionalism-at-first-glance are some 
of the industrial designers 3-D pieces. Plas
tic models of the designs are, if not wor
kable, at least visually exciting. One or two 
students stray from the group and venture 
into designs for the home with a pedestal 
goblet of wood (James Rudai) and a detec
tion system (Brian Roberts). The designers 
pre-metamorphosis renderings are as inte
restingly and seemingly more complicated 
than their end results. (We couldnt deci
pher them for you.)
Actually, a closer look tells you the 
show isnt quite as impressive as you first 
thought. Thats in part due to the lack of 
lustre in many of the 2-D works and in a 
few isolated exhibitions.
The 23 Designer's Exhibit in Hunt Library.
______________________________photos by Levine
There are several post-views of many of 
the student-designed posters youve been 
seeing and stealing on campus: Alvin Ailey, 
Billy Joel. Joe Walsh, Dr. Leon Katz and 
the AB Film Art Series. Coupled with these 
are familiar publication designs including a 
botanical booklet and hockey program co
vers. which brings us to Mary Wallaces 
exhibit. Her work in pencil and ink seems 
to concentrate successfully on the absence 
of what she draws as well as the detail. Her 
most striking piece is a painting of hockey
players done in quick splashes of colors 
which speak of the tempo of the game.
Jennifer Navratil's egg boxes are intrica
tely drawn. In fact, her entire display is as 
intense as it is muted. Each drawing seems 
to exist behind a hazy screen where faces
fliudly melt into the background.
Maria Kyros designs a plastic letters puz
zle that guarantees insanity, and those into 
children's book illustrations are apt to get 
addicted to Terry Simons mouse. Arlene 
Steinberg presents an entire display of fab
ric design where shapes and color are in
volved in a kind of kaleidoscopic interplay.
Design exhibitions at C'-MU would be 
less than incomplete without samples of 
books of calligraphy. Judith Campbell, 
Larry Heinrichers American Indian Ora
tory; and a few bindings complete this one.
Though no single piece will keep you 
awestruck, combinations of various dis
plays support each other and keep the ex
hibit interesting. We came away feeling the 
world was better off; that the streets will 
be safer for our children; and that all asperins are not alike.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 19, 1974-Page 13
THE IPONTEK SIISTCIRS
by Seymour Peck, as the Doctor, and 
m Woodro Celt
I
Someone was heard to remark upon 
leaving the Syria Mosque at the end of the 
Pointer Sisters/Hugh Masekela concert that 
it was the strangest crowd he had ever seen. 
Small, but strange. Black gays, whitegays, 
black Superflys, white teeny- boppers sit-i
ting next to us, and even middle-aged 
couples who said they had come because 
we think theyre funky.
The Pointer Sisters arent show-girls, 
theyre not entertainers in fact, many 
people found a group of skinny black gays 
dancing in the third balcony of the Mosque 
far more interesting to watch than the 
eighty-five choruses of Wang-Dang-Doodle. 
They have, according to one of the review
ers, the potential to be the greatest musical 
group of the seventies. Unfortunately for 
Pittsburgh, however, the Pointers were 
only about 5/8ths potential for the Mosque 
concert. June, the sister who sings most of 
the leads and hits the inspirational high 
notes, was iH; a fact which we may account 
for by acknowledging that the sisters had 
 played Madison Square Garden in New 
York the night before. And one of the 
three who did appear was very hoarse and 
tried for much of the show to dance 
around with a microphone in her hand and 
her mouth inconspicuously closed.
Nevertheless, the evening ended with all 
_ the decked-out folk on their feet, clapping 
their hands numb, while a lot of the more 
conservative elements in the Mosque smiled 
sedately, toe-tapping under their seats. 
There was a good deal of ethnic influence 
provided by the opening act of Hugh Mase
kela and his African drumming group, who 
later joined the Pointers for part of that 
never-ending Yes We Can-Can. Masekelas
I
group consists of about seven dashiki-clad 
fellows from Ghana, and theyre very good 
at their talking-drum chanty-type stuff.
Be that as it may-, one of us would like 
to tell you about the Max Fleischner car
toon which was shown on a screen before 
the Pointers (three of them) came out. Max 
Fleischner directed all the Betty Boop car
toons of the thirties and forties, and he was 
suffering, we may assume, from some sort 
of S and M disorder. All his cartoons con
tain a great deal of warped masochism and 
sadistic twists in all the cute little animated 
animals, and the whole cartoon sways with 
the rhythms of strange jazz background 
music. Once Fleischner used Cab Calloway 
to sing background for cartoontonights 
cartoon had (all four) Mills Brothers sing
ing a little dittie called Dinah. Toward
the end of the cartoon, we all got to sing 
along. That was one of uss favorite part of 
the concert. Which leads us to speculate 
about the fact that the Mills Brothers were 
never the same when the fourth brother 
died, just as the Pointers were not the same 
without . . .
But hell-even though the concert was 
short (45 minutes), and not what it could 
be or should have been, or will be next 
time around, it was good to see them sing
ing tightly at the top of their lungs; dedi
cating a song to one of the Andrews Sis
ters, getting funky with Masekela, and 
generally displaying their considerable in
dividual talents; despite all the hype 
theyve gotten about being black Bette 
Midlers. They may touch the same nerve as 
old Bette, but theres also a lot of down
right soulful Gladys Knight vocal work 
going on here, and a funky jazziness that 
reminds one more of Billie Holiday in 
three-and-four part harmony than the An
drews Sisters, or the Bette Midler overdub 
imitations thereof.
Toward the end of the concert the three 
out of four Pointer Sisters started taking 
off their jewelry and trading it in for flow
ers and palm leaves to the Little Richard 
queen flinging himself at them.That was 
because their father was a preacher and he 
taught them to always give in return for 
receiving. And finally, a special thanks to 
our old friend Pat DiCesare and the new
14 K (KQV) for putting on the show, com
plete with jabbering DJ and the tackiest 
logo backdrop anyone ever forced anyone 
to look at. No reflection on the concert, 
but you should both die.
Greek Sing *74
by Debbie Siegel
t The Greeks didn't streak, but they did 
^ provide an evening of well-rounded enter
tainment on Friday in Carnegie Music Hall. 
As 1 sat back exposed to a variety of 
sounds, I decided to pretend I was a judge 
and rate the different fraternities and 
sororities on the criteria for a good act. 
Official judges of Greek sing take into con
sideration intonation, creativity, staging, 
impact, etc. The judges are professors in 
music. Each group.has a ten minute time 
limit. In my fantasy as Clive Barnes, I 
placed highest value on what was entertain
ing. I divided my judgment into 3 cate
gories and looked for my idea of the best.
Take the nostalgic journey into the 50's 
by Theta XI. These greasers used clever 
^staging and sang Teen Angel in l.ove and 
|l Blue Moon as well as moved their bodies in 
I style. The audience reaction was hysteria 
and this act deserves an awaid for being the 
zaniest. With the help of Pam Pamort, who 
shows what being shy is all about. Kappa
Gamma might rate second in the zany cate
gory. The little-girl costumes were imagina
tive and the voices were sweet. Delta Tau 
Delta had the potential in a South Pacific 
routine but missed the boat. The back
ground music was corny and there weren't 
enough males to carry the songs. Their 
ideas were good, but some obscene gestures 
in the right places weren't enough.
Potential was my main thought as I 
listened to the serious groups. The show 
opened with Tau Delta Phi and Delta 
Gamma singing a poor selection of songs. I 
noticed that most of the groups' choice of 
songs showed no real coherence and it was 
difficult to adjust to contrasts without 
shaking your head a few times. Sigma Nu 
deserves recognition for singing a cappella and staying in key for the most part. 
I was thoroughly entertained by Alpha Tau 
Omega and Kappa Alpha Theta who per
formed my definition of dentist music. 
There was an airy feeling with Smoke Gets 
In Your Lyes and I was numb with its 
ether. Kappa Sigma also did a pleasant
medley, but they were too stiff to carry me 
away. I nominate Phi Kappa Theta and Chi 
Omega as the best serious act. Their singing 
was together, with good intonation, and 
the voices were strong. Each song was 
different, but created an aura of its own 
and encouraged audience participation. 1 
find it difficult, however, to understand 
why so many of the groups enter the ser
ious competition. It was reminiscent of 
singing in chorus in high school days; not 
all that much fun.
The last category is the most exciting 
and exhilarating to my eyes and ears. The 
competition was narrowed down to be
tween the Delta Delta Delta and Sigma
Alpha Epsilon. Performing Thoroughly 
Modern Millie, the Tri Delts had cute cos
tumes. good choreography and some good 
solo voices. However, the effect was not 
comparable to The Music Man which was 
truly the best act in ever\ way. From the 
entrance of Chris Dugas, the Music Man. 
SAE had control of the stage in every way. 
In our atmosphere of professionalism, SAE
combined talent in choreography, sound, 
cohesion, costumes, and comedy. I was 
thoroughly entertained and wished every 
act could have brought such a slice of 
Broadway into focus.
Well, alias Clive is ready to turn in the 
pen and wait for the judges decisions. One 
more observation-is their any justification 
to the theory that a Greek's act is a repre
sentative of the frat itself? Whether true or 
not, UFO took some time off from beer 
drinking and streaking to present a really 
good show .
The (Real) Judge's Results.
Frat Group - SAE 
Sorority Group-- KKG 
Mixed Group- Phi Kappa Theta & 
Chi Omega

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 19, 1974
with your ID Card 
9 x 12s $15. $19, $29, $39 
also 6x9s,12x12s,12x15s
Also wall tapestries, Indian rugs furry rugs 
and bedspreads. Low prices oriental rugs in 
many sizes.
ASK ABOUT DISCOUNT FURNITURE
CHASE'S
5426 Walnut 
Shadyside
10 a.m. - 8 p.m. Sat, 'ti! 5 
For directions call 621 1025
ANNOUNCEMENT
Intramural softball rosters are due to
morrow by noon in the IM office, Skibo 
Gym.
A meeting of softball officials and man
agers will take place at 4:30 p.m. to
morrow in the Black Cat Lounge. Each 
team MUST send a representative.flRHTES
oupA Uav a lail 
with U Buci
TICKETS
FOR
PITTSBURGH 
PIRATE OPENER
Tuesday, April 9, 1974 
vs.Montreal Expos
* * * CMU's Kiltie Band to perform prior to the game. * *
Tickets: Reserved and Round Trip 
Bus - $4.00 on sale now at the 
Skibo Information Desk.
(Bus will leave Skibo at 12:00 Noon)
sports
editorial
The opinion of the TARTAN sports 
staff being that C-MU needs something to 
liven the dullest part of the year, we would 
like to organize a marathon streak and 
schedule it for a future date. The course 
would start at the fraternity houses, pro
ceed up the cut to Baker Hall, continue 
past Hunt Library, Fine Arts and GSIA, 
cut through Margaret Morrison, go between 
Skibo and the tennis courts, and wind up 
in the Morewood Lobby. There would be 
writers and hopefully photographers sta
tioned along the way. All interested parties 
are urged to contact the Tartan sports 
department immediately.
Lets put C-MU on the map!
Editors note: If there is any interest in 
doing so, teams can be organized and the 
event can be scored like a cross-country 
meet.
I.M.
Streaking?
by Mike Pochan
Latest rumors around campus are spec
ulating that the nations newest fad, streak
ing, will be made into an intramural com
petitive sport.
Earl J. Birdy, director of Intramural 
Athletics at CMU, stated, If we put 
streaking in the IM program, it has to be 
co-rec. Birdy went on to say, The only 
problem I forsee is presenting the Trophies. 
I dont know if the streakers will be able to 
stop long enough to get them.
As a sport, streaking offers unlimited 
possibilities and numerous benefits. The 
non-existent need for monetary funds is 
the benefit that is most appealing. There is 
no expense for equipment, referees, and a 
gymnasium. Public appeal would be the 
judge of perfection.
The variations that can be made on the 
streak are left open to the infinite recesses 
of the imaginative mind. There have been 
mass streaks, bicycle streaks, and paraskeaks, but how about scuba streaks, 
doss-continental streaks, subterranean 
streaks, and interplanetary streaks?
CMU student response to streaking 
has been quite favorable. Students have 
not allowed it to interfere with their other 
activities. One student, a freshman know'n 
as Moon, found time while streaking to 
stop and play a game of pinball.
Other comments have varied.
Earl Tee, junior Chem. E. - Its a fun, 
cheap sport the whole family can enjoy.
Tom Veltri, junior AMS - When it 
comes to streaking, SAEs way out in 
front.
John Qualley, freshman EPA - Bot
toms up!
T.O. McMeekin, freshman Mech. E. - 
Its the in thing to do.
Michael Moore, freshman Chem. E. - I 
dont think about that kind of stuff, man.
Paul Panish, freshman E.E. - I think it 
is insane.
Kevin Turcotte, Tartan reporter - I 
wrote a better article on it last week.
Tartans Skate Over Penn 9-3
: - Hgjffiff
CMU's Mike Kenworthy (15) blocks out opponent as Peter Davis streaks toward puck 
during 9 3 victory over Penn State McKeesport.
by Mary Kay Burak
The Carnegie-Mellon hockey club skated 
all over Penn State McKeesport to an easy 
9-3 victory on Sunday, March 10. The last 
Tartan league game before the playoffs, 
this victory brought their record to 12-1-2.
Penn State opened the scoring as Ray 
Krueger swung around to the right of the 
C-MU net and fired the puck behind goalie 
Jeff Hart. This seemed to wake up the 
Tartans. Pete Davis scored on a power play 
with a 15-foot wrist shot, then a bare 14 
seconds later, Tom Grimm broke away to 
give C-MU the lead. Tartan wing Jeff Jac
obs shot in a rebound to put C-MU ahead 
by two.
The second period saw Penn State revert 
to their traditional playing style: if you 
cant beat them, beat them up. The Tartans 
flubbed their first power play (there were
five in the period), coming back a minute 
later as Davis passed the puck to Johnny 
Hauser for a goal. Krueger scored again 
the sole PSU second period goal-on a slap
shot which was screened from Harts view. 
At this point, Penn State changed goalies, 
evidently a mistake since the Tartans 
scored three times in five minutes. Matt 
Goldsmith fired one shot between the 
goalies pads, and Tom Grimm made his 
second goal with a slapshot into the upper 
right-hand corner of the net.
Meanwhile, a short confrontation be
tween Tartan Leroy Bauer and PSUs John 
Davis put both into the penalty box for 6 
minutes each. Another Penn State skater 
was called for roughingwhich made the 
line-up 4 on 3and Matt Goldsmith scored 
on the power play, tipping in a slapshot 
from Roger Peterson.
photo by Mary Kay Burak
Frank Sciulli minded the Tartan net for 
the third period; he, too, confined Penn 
State to one goal all period. Mike Gallaway 
took advantage of another power play to 
score. Two new Tartans broke into the 
scoring as Chuck McConnell shot in C-MUs 
ninth goal, assisted by Pete Davis and 
David Groupe. In the final half-minute of 
play, the Saints narrowed the goal margin 
to 9-3.
In the second game of the doubleheader, Pitt shut out Duquesne, 8-0. Their 
5-0 shutout over Penn State two days later 
leaves them with a 13-1-1 record, and 27 
points to C-MUs 26. The Tartans and the 
Panthers have led the league all season and 
both should emerge victorious from to
nights playoffs. But victory in the champ
ionship game (Thursday, March 21) is still 
up for grabs.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, March 19, 1974Page 15
...But Lose to Main Campus
The score wasclose (3-2). The number of 
penalties called was close (3-2) and the 
shots on goal was even (25 each). But Penn 
State (main campus) managed to pull off a 
win over the Tartan skaters in a March 16 
|exhibition game.
) This hard-fought rematch gave the Tar
tans a good practice session before the 
playoffs, and showed that both teams have 
improved since their earlier game on No
vember 28th. That time the Tartans emer
ged with a 3-2 victory.
If the Tartans were slightly outplayed in 
the first period, they made up for it in the 
^hird. But both C-MU goals were scored in
by Mary Kay Burakthe second period. Jeff (Preppie) Jacobs 
scored first for C-MU on a ten foot wrist 
shot past Mike Gallaway who saw it 
coming, luckily, and jumped over it. Pete 
Davis wove around the PSU defence, carry
ing the puck from the Tartan blue line, to 
score the goal which tied it up at 2-2.
Both Jeff Hart and the Penn State goalie 
made several good saves. The first PSU goal 
was scored on a slapshot from behind the 
blue line. In the second period, Martin ska
ted past the Tartan net, then made a suc
cessful backhand shot. The winning Penn 
State goal came during a late third period 
power play.
The power play came about due to a
fight between Matt (Mad Dog) Goldsmith 
and a Penn State defenseman. There hasnt 
been much fighting in the Tartan league 
games this season, due to the strict new 
fighting rules implemented this year. But 
Penn State isnt in the WP1HA. So when 
the PSU player took exception to the way 
Matt checked him, both started swinging. 
The upshot was five minute fighting penal
ties for both and a two minute minor on 
Goldsmith. Fortunately there was only 
2:39 left in the game; not so luckily, the 
penalties gave Penn State a one-man advan
tage which they used to score the winning 
goal.
So the Tartans lost by a narrow margin,
but Penn State afforded the kind of com
petition which we usually get from no one 
but Pitt, which made for a valuable prac
tice session before Thursdays all-important 
championship contests.
Shadyside Presbyterian Church
AMBERSON, OFF 5th AVE. 682-4300
SUNDAY:
9:00 Worship Service 
9:30 Learning community (adults 
and children)
10:30 Community Worship 
Celebration 
11:00 Worship Service
Ms. Nano Chalfant, Campus Staff
The PINNACLE of Pizza Parlors
 The BEST Pizza in Pgh. 
1) Dough & sauce made fresh daily on 
the premisespre-packaged shells 
are not used.
2) Only the best (fresh) ingredients 
are used.
3) Owner operatedMa cares.
4) Cleanliness is maintained.WE DELIVER
Centre at Craig 621-6755
Carnegie-Mellon Final Basketball Statistics
NAMEGFGAFGPCTFTAFTPCTRBSAVGPTSAVG
Hamerly21274121.447951.651848.829314.0
Chambers2125692.367641.541718.122510.7
DAngelo2123579.343827.71743.51858.8
Carter63615.422412.50315.2427.0
Klein179343.462618.69834.91046.1
Jason1910428.276847 .691*14.01005.3
Donato207328.38128.67402.064' 3.2
Hotimsky216321.333520.57321.5623.0
Bonn18469.2094.44201.1221.2
Boykins12155.3353.608.7131.1
Vranderic144711.23155.33181.3271.9
TOTALS211410508.36435271.6294845.1128761.3
Scientific/Business Calculator
Was $119.95ran^ \ 
i m BeB%
i n 1 
I <I
$59.95
Unicom Systems
Rockwell International
WITH CMU 1.0.
^sU-r-)Scientific
automatic square 
automatic reciprocal
Business
accumulating memory 
automatic roundoff to
square root in 30 secs dollars/cents
auto constantscarry case
CITRON & ZECCA
2109 MURRAY AVENUE 
421-0619

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-THE TARTAN -Tuesday, March 19, 1974
- r> i 
9>
To
A MONTH
FOR ALL
JUNIORS
AND
SENIORS
IN THE ROTC
PROGRAM
AND THE OPPORTUNITY TO QUALIFY FOR A 
FULL-TUITION ROTC SCHOLARSHIP 
AND GRADUATE SCHOOL PRIOR TO MILITARY 
SERVICE ONCE YOU ENROLL IN THE
ROTC TWO YEAR PROGRAM
HERES HOW:
1. ATTEND A 6-WEEK CAMP BETWEEN YOUR SOPHOMORE 8
JUNIOR YEARS
2. ENROLL IN THE ROTC ADVANCED COURSE UPON YOUR
RETURN TO SCHOOL
IT'S THAT SIMPLE!
VETERANS! - You get special compensation for years spent 
on active duty. Receive financial assistance from ROTC 
in addition to your G.l. bill benefits.
FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT:
Director for Enrollment, ROTC Department, 
Carnegie-Mellon University, Room 203, Gym,
621-2600 x281/282
