 tartan
September 30, 1975 Volume 76 Number 3
this week
Computer & the Library .... page 3 
The Mother and the Whore . . page 6 
Tartans Maul Oberlin..............page 10
CMU Teaches Saudis
by Claire Lee
\ _ , 1
During the first part of Mayl975 25 
Saudi Arabian students, ranging in ages 
18-25, arrived on the CMU campus. They 
are here for an intensive two year program 
which will lead to a certification for tech
nical translation . They are the first batch 
*to arrive under a contract set up between 
the Education Mission of Saudi Arabia and 
CMU in which the latter is to train each 
year a group of twenty-five of its (Saudi 
Arabian) nationals as English-Arabic trans
lators. They are studying at the Transla
tion Center which is located in the
? Margaret Morrison Building.
Dr. Concetta Greenfield (Assist. Prof. in 
$ in Eng. & Mod. Lang. Depts. and Director 
of the Translation Center) recounted very 
favorably the progress of the Saudis. When 
they arrived, most of them knew almost 
no English or had only a rudimentary 
knowledge of the language. During their 
first month, they attended mostly English 
grammar, composition, and speech classes 
in order to gain English proficiency, and 
basic skills of translation between English 
and Arabic.
Prof. James Antos of the Modern Lan
guages Dept, was one of their instructors 
during thg beginning sessions. He called it 
very tough work. The Center had been 
preparing for 3 weeks and was not quite 
ready for the Arabs when they arrived. 
They were given standarized English exams 
.?V/hich established their very low English 
proficiency. During this whole initial peri
od, there were very few students on 
campus and even fewer activities. So Prof. 
Antos was among the administrators who 
tried to help the Arab Students with their 
academic and psychological adjustments, 
and with very serious cases of homesick
ness. After these months of training, Prof.
VanDyke Wins
Charles H. van Dyke, Associate Professor 
of Chemistry at Camegie-Mellon University, 
has been named the 1975 winner of the 
Universitys annual Ryan Award for Meri
torious Teaching. The honor was announced by Richard M. Cyert, president of 
' CMU, at a faculty meeting.
Van Dyke, 38, is the 15th recipient of 
the award, presented annually to a faculty 
member in a CMU undergraduate college. 
Established in 1961 by a $10,000 gift 
from William H. and Frances S. Ryan of 
Sacramento, California, the award carries 
with it a certificate and honorarium. Mr. 
^ Ryan was a member of the Gass of 1925 at 
Carneeie Institute of Technology, now 
Carnegie Mellon University.
Bom in Rochester, Pa., Van Dyke 
received his undergraduate degree from 
Geneva college in 1959 and earned his 
Ph.D. in Inorganic Chemistry at the Uni
versity of Pennsylvania in 1963. In this 
same year he joined the Chemistry Depart
ment at CMU as an Assistant Professor. He 
Was namea Associate Professor in 1968.
Author of over 30 articles published in 
scientific journals, as well as four lengthy 
review articles in research monographs, 
Van Dykes most recent research activities 
centered on the studv of organic and 
oxygen derivates of silicon and germanium.
He is a member of the American Chemi
cal Society (London), Phi Lambda Upsilon, 
Alpha Chi Omega, and Sigma Chi.
Antos believes their English speech and 
understanding are tremendously improved 
as compared to what little they knew upon 
arrival.
Now the group is concentrating more 
and more on technical translations. The 
Saudi Arabian Government, which pays for 
their studies here, is pushing very hard for 
internal industrial development. For this 
nurpose it needs more and more people 
who have the technical and translational 
skills-especially in the engineering and 
management fields. After their 2 year train
ing here, the group will return to Saudi 
Arabia and it is expected, says Prof. 
Goldsmith (Director of Continuing Educa
tion who is responsible for special pro
grams at CMU) that some of the 25 will 
then return to CMU to finish their degree 
work.
Their education is not fully confined to 
learning English as a second language. 
Their teachers include professors from 
many departments: Modern Languages, 
English, Math, Science, Engineering, Indus
trial Managment and Law. In order to 
further help them in their very practical 
education, many B.A. English personnel 
have been hired as tutors. There are also 
professional translators in the Center who 
can give the students detailed explanations 
of terminology and technigues used in 
industry, business and legal areas. All 
these facilities combined give the Arabs
Saudis take advantage of the facilities offered by the
a very complete and professional study of 
technical translation.
Aside from the academic aspect, they 
are learning much from the social segment 
of life. They are very aware of the differ
ences between the U.S, and their countrynot only technologically, but socially--and 
they are trying to merge into America, but 
at the same time preserve their own unique 
cultural heritage.
They have been here for about
continued on page five
Board Gets Ramsey Lewis
by Bruce Lindsay
The Activities Board booked Ramsey 
Lewis for the Homecoming concert after 
weeks of frantic searching. The perfor
mance is scheduled for 8:00 Fri., Oct. 10, 
in the CMU gym. Tickets are $3.50 for 
CMU students, $4.50 for others, and $5.00 
day of the show. Tickets will be on sale at 
The Skibo Information Desk, Pitt Student 
Union, and National Record Marts
ing agency, which could purchase a main 
act, back up, sound and lights at reduced 
costs. The groups offered were Commander 
Cody, Hot luna, Weather Report, l'om 
Rush, Dave Loggins and Orleans. Unfor
tunately, as the committee fought for 
administrative approval, all the groups 
were purchased by another promoter. The 
AB concert committee must assume full 
responsibilty for Ramsey Lewis.
Ramsey Lewis can be best described as 
a jazz keyboard player. His music is a mix
ture of jazz and soul... His albums are 
innumerable, having been part of the scene 
for many years. He has moved from a 
traditional pianist to a popular keyboard 
player. His album, Sun Goddess, made the 
national charts and received considerable 
air play. He was backed up by members of 
Earth, Wind and Fire. A few days after 
the AB booked Lewis, his new album was 
released. Dont it Feel Good is a departure 
from his traditional jazz and shows all the 
influences of EW&Fs disco sound.
Translation Center
Work Held Up
A nationwide strike of pipe and duct 
work insulators, members of the asbestos 
workers union, has slowed progress on 
three renovation projects on th CMU 
campus. The projects affected are the 
Art Store in Skibo, the new biology 
laboratories in Mellon Institute, and the 
replacement of the steam lines for the 
Hunt Library heating system.
The delay is not expected to affect the 
library heating or air-conditioning systems. 
The old steam lines, installed in 1961 when 
the library was built, will remain in use 
until work on the new lines is completed. 
Because deterioration of the original steam 
lines had caused excessive leakage, it was 
considered more economical to install 
new lines. Improved insulation materials 
will reduce operating costs.
Although work on the air-conditioning 
system in the Skibo Art Store can not 
be completed until the strike is settled, the 
store is open for business. Store hours 
are: 8 am to 8pm Monday through Thurs
day, 8 am to 5 pm Friday, and 10 am to
3 pm Saturday.
The new biology laboratory in Mellon 
Institute is designed for the study of cell 
membranes and receptor sites. It will 
occupy space on the sixth floor formerly 
used for storage. Work on the filtered airconditioning system necessary for sterile 
conditions has been interrupted by the 
strike.
iHt J *
Chick Monheim, Activities Board Concert Chair
man. Jonathan Eiten
In the past, major concerts on campus 
have been handled by outside promoters. 
Last year, Pacific Presentations brought 
Chick Corea and Roy Buchanan to the 
gym. According to Chick Monheim, con
cert chairman, local promoters would not 
touch a show for the Homecoming date. 
Pacific and DiCesare-Engler were too 
involved with other shows to risk money 
on CMU. The competition that month 
prevented other promoters from putting 
on the show. Chick Corea, Billy Cobham, 
Gary Burton, Brian Auger, and Rod 
Stewart are appearing in town at the same 
time.
The concert committee went to a bookCenter launched by CMU
The Camegie-Mellon Education Center, 
vested with on going responsibilities for 
development of core courses for undergrad
uate and graduate teacher education pro
grams, was established on September 1,
1975 at Camegie-Mellon University. The 
Center will absorb into its operations the 
Social Studies Curriculum Center, already 
recognized as national leader in preparing 
innovative curriculum materials for pupils 
and teachers.
The Education Centers broad scope 
and mandate will provide the campus with 
an agency specifically designed to develop 
and assess new instructional materials 
and innovative teaching techniques,
University President Richard M. Cyert 
said in announcing the Centers establish
ment. It will provide a broad base for 
work already under way in designing selfpaced learning programs, improving teacher 
training programs, and developing inte
grated internal courses for undergraduate 
and graduate students at CMU, Dr. 
Cyert added.
Social Studies Curriculum Center, which 
will be merged into the new Education 
Center, has developed materials that are 
widely used throughout the country, in
cluding many books which have become 
standard texts for high school courses in
continued on page five

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2THE TARTANSeptember 30, 1975
editors note______A base of power:
Activity Funding
The representatives of Student Government who were 
present at last weekends Leadership Conference defined 
the goal of student government to be to serve the repre
sentative needs of the student body of Carnegie Mellon 
University. In defining Senates goals and sub-goals, it 
became- apparent that Senates power base is its control 
over allocation of the Student Activities Fee which has an 
annual value of approximately one hundred thousand dollars. 
Senate funds almost every student organization on campus, a 
spectrum ranging from the TARTAN' to the Cheerleaders.
It was further decided that (1) the only way for Student 
Senate to effectively reach its stated goal was through active 
management of where the money is allocated and where it is 
spent; and (2) presently Senate is doing less than a satisfac
tory job in so supervising Student Organizations.
Money is currently dished out on an annual basis, tenta
tively at first by the Finance Committee and ultimately by 
the full body of Senate. A dub desiring funding simply 
presents a budget and then plays the game of outsmarting the 
committee and the Senate. In certain cases the committee 
lacks the budgeting expertise or experience to be able to 
effectively scrutinize a proposed budget. Former perfor
mance is often judged simply on prior budgets without any 
real regard to past contingencies on which allocations were 
based. The real possibility exists (if it has not already oc
curred) that an organization could receive funds for a one
time expense during one fiscal year an \ then have the same 
expense show up on succeeding budgets.
Given the lack of an objective method of budget allot
ment, the budgeting process is further complicated by the 
fact that Senate does not evaluate each organizations effec
tiveness. Recognition and funding of Student Organizations 
lack any assesment of the organizations potential and 
present audience or clienteles size, make-up or interests. 
In effect, Senate is allocating thousands of dollars without 
very much relevant data on which to base their decisions.
Once money has been allocated (given whatever process 
happens to be employed) no follow-up is made to see how 
the allocated money is actually spent. The next time any real 
questions are asked is at the next budget allocation hearing, 
sometimes one year after the money has been spent. The 
only day to day supervision of any given Student Organiza
tion is done either by Susan Christian or Lois Cox, both 
employees of the University not of Student Government.
Such supervision is possible. Since the task of budget 
allocation is so time consuming, Senate should consider 
establishing another committee which would concentrate on 
budget auditing and enforcement. This auditing committee 
should establish some system by which organizations are 
required to report on some regular basis (quarterly, semi-an
nually, etc.) the details of their budget spending including a
list of all purchase orders, requisitions and other spending 
amounting to more than a specified amount. Since all Stu
dent Organizations (as does the University) operate on a 
non-profit status, some other mechanism must be created to 
substitute for the usual profit motive.
Upon having the Student Activities Fee listed as a seperate fee, apart from the tuition charge, Senate obtained a 
tremendous potential to exercise its power through resource 
allocation. This potential, though, has gone unnoticed due 
both to the fact that allocation procedures are crude and 
ineffective and that the power of supervision has been 
relinquished to the administration.
At an institution where Managers Mind the University 
the expertise certainly exists for Student Senate to establish 
systems with which to exercise this potential power. When 
speaking to an administrator from another local university, 
he said that Our students still have plenty of power  they 
just dont use it.. . If they dont tap this power soon, theyre 
going to loose it. 
letters
WRCT Replies
Editor:
This letter is written in re
sponse to that of Michael 
Tsaos in the September 23 
issue of the Tartan.
In reply to Mr. Tsaos 
charge that WRCTs signal interfers with other radio stations, 
I must suggest that he have his 
tuner repaired or replaced. A re
cent spectrum analysis was per
formed on our transmitter R.F. 
output, and there were abso
lutely no measurable emissions 
outside of our channel assign
ment at 88.3 MHz. A possible 
jxplanation as to why Mr. 
Tsaos tuner is so receptive to 
WRCTs signal is that he is 
located in a relatively high 
field strength area (as is every3ne on the CMU campus). 
The fact that our transmitter 
las an R.F. output of a minis
cule 10 Watts is a condemning 
comment on the health of Mr. 
Tsaos tuner.
If Mr. Tsao wishes to make 
ihis complaint formal, he may
io so by writing a letter directy to WRCT or the F.C.C. Field
Office in Buffalo, New York. 
In such a case, WRCT is oblig
ated by law to make a detailed 
technical examination and form
ally reply to the F.C.C. as to 
what steps were taken or sug
gestions made to remedy the 
complaint.
Mr. Tsao also has suggested 
that CMU students have become 
unknowing benefactors of Uni
versity of Pittsburgh student 
radio listeners. First of all, 
every indication that we have 
of who is listening to WRCT 
suggests that our prime audience 
consists of CMU students. Of the 
calls received last year during 
our album give-away, only a 
small percentage of the total 
were from Pitt.
The University of Pittsburgh 
does have its own radio station, 
WPGH. It is an A.M. carrier 
current operation (which is why 
one cant hear it on a radio out
side of the Pitt dorms). WPGH 
is funded by Pitt students and 
operates with around $9,500 per 
year.
I dont mean to suggest by 
this that WRCT should only seek 
listeners on the CMU compus. 
The Carnegie-Mellon Student
Government Corporation as li
censee for WRCT, is required by 
the F.C.C. to serve the inter
rests of the local community. 
The local community is most 
simply defined as those people 
who can receive WRCTs signal 
on their radios.
Although Mr. Tsaos com
plaint about our programming 
baffles me (WRCT has not re
cently been playing a Top 40 
format), I must admit that our 
programming is rather anemic at 
present. However, we currently 
have in the mill several diversive 
programs which should make 
their debut in the near future.
I suggest that the primary 
reason for WRCTs unexception
al sound at present is the insuffi
cient economic support from 
Student Senate. As the years 
have gone by, WRCT personnel 
have been forced to jump suc
cessively higher economic hur
dles with minimal assistance 
from Senate. At present we are 
attempting to build a technical
ly viable set of studios with their 
associated electronic equipment.
Without sufficient money, we 
are only able to complete this by
continued on page three
Volume 76tartan
September 30, 1975Number 4
Editor in Chief 
Gary Singer
Business Manager:Tom Kirland 
News Editor:Charles Mitch 
Entertainment Editor:Marfc Chimsky 
Trapeze Editor:Greg McKenna 
Sports Editor: Elly Zimmerman 
Photography Editor: Elliot Popowitz
Staff Photographers: Jonathan Eiten, Tim Fabian, Rick Frantz, Courtney Larson, Gregg Lebovitz, Kathi Leich
ter, Dave Meeker, John Rose, Mark Segal, Fred Shamlian, John Shettel, Brian Smith, Jim Vlasic, Paul Williams
Copyrighted 1975 by the Carnegie -Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit or 
withold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded by Student Government of CarnegieMellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50, (412) 621-2600 ext. 656. 
Business Offices: Skibo 52; <412) 682-4557.
All rights reserved
Gary Singer, Editor

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-September 30, 1975Page 3
news comment
I I
letters
<|pntinued from page two
expense of a great deal of our 
own time. Hopefully in the fu
ture, WRCT will be able to sup* 
ply a more consistent service to 
the Pittsburgh college communi
ty once we have the facilities 
to work with.
The staff of WRCT is com
posed of students who work as 
hard as any other organization 
on campus. Mr. Tsaos letter is 
counerproductive to achieving 
the kind of Educational F.M. 
station that WRCT could be.
Jeff Gruger 
Chief Engineer, WRCT
i- W Dorm Housewarming
Editor:
The following was sent to Dean 
of Residence Life, Charles 
Williams.
I would like to take this op
portunity to extend my personal 
invitation to attend a housefarming at Scobell Hall . My 
roomate and I feel that this is 
the only way that you can ex
perience the exquisite comfort 
that is Scobell Hall.
Unfortunately, should you 
decide to accept this invitation, 
we will be unable to offer a 
place to sit- due to reasons 
^nown only to yourself, we have 
no chairs.
As you enter, be so good as 
to put out any cigarettes, cigars, 
or pipes you may be smoking, 
because, due to reasons known 
only to yourself, our room is 
a fire hazard- there is no radia
tor cover.
^ Please prepare yourself
iould you decide to take me 
up on this sincere offer) by 
wearing some sort of electrically 
insulated clothing; due to rea
sons known only to yourself, 
our wall outlets have no covers 
and may, therefore, with all the 
fickleness that is nature, choose 
At some time during your visit,
to emit electrons into your 
body. This can have a shocking 
;ffect which is best avoided.
Other proper attire might in
clude scuba gear. Due to reasons 
known only to yourself, our 
room, which might reasonably 
be expected to house one per
son, contains two, and we connot provide such niceties as suf
ficient air. It might be wise, 
though, to see if a compact 
(i.e., dime-size) oxygen tank has 
yet been invented, for the usual 
life-sized models might not get 
past the door.
I am not normally so pos
sessing of the social graces to 
invite as exalted a personage as 
yourself to pay a visit to my 
humble closet; however, I feel 
that you and I might both bene
fit by such an enlightening en
counter.
Name Witheld 
Praise God, He speaks English
Editor:
Praise God he speaks English. 
This seems to be a common say
ing when entering a class and 
finding the instructor speaks 
good English. Many times I 
have to strain to understand a 
foreign dialect. So when an 
American instructor arrives, re
joicing is often heard. I am not 
accusing any foreign instructor 
(especially graduate students) of 
being incompetent, but begin
ning a course in a foreign dia
lect is a disadvantage. Often 
students become prematurely 
bored and class attendance 
quickly drops. I do not see 
fault in the instructors, even 
though they sometimes do not 
see any problems, but the fault 
lies with the university for 
placing these people in teach
ing situations. No one ever said 
CMU was a rose garden but 
neither did any one suggest that
a student should study Indian 
to speak to an instructor. The 
local community college is con
sidering a rule that requires the 
teacher population to racially 
and ethnically correspond to the 
student population. I am not 
necessarily agreeing with this 
rule, however if CMU would, 
they would have to import 
many more foreign students. I 
think it is time to air this pro
blem, if it is important to other 
students as it is to myself. Per
haps it is time for the students, 
if they are not satisfied, to out 
on how their tuition is used.
Name Witheld
SDC Darkroom
Editor:
The Students Dormitory 
Council has subsidized the new 
dark room opening in Donner 
Hall. We feel this facility is a 
great asset to many dorm res
idents.
It should be noted however, 
that it has taken several years 
of hard work, on the part of 
many students, to build this 
dark room. These students, 
many of whom have since grad
uated or left CMU, gave their 
own time to transform a use
less storage room into what 
we consider to be one of the 
finest dark rooms on campus.
I would, therefore, like to ex
press the gratitude of SDC and 
all dorm residents to these 
people, without whom the dark 
room would not exist.
Bill Jacobs 
SDC President f 
s 1The TARTAN welcomes com- j 
ments from any member of the 1 
CMU community. Letters to the j 
Editor are due by noon Wednes- j 
day during the week prior to j 
publication.
View from Warner Hall
During recent months the library has been employing 
computer technology to improve the operating efficiency and 
service capabilities of the library. In March we began to use 
the computerized cataloging system of the Ohio College 
Library Center to catalog the books we received. The system 
makes available machine readable cataloging information 
entered on the data base by participating libraries and from 
Library of Congress tapes. By utilizing previously generated 
bibliographic records, member libraries can avoid duplicating 
the time and effort required to create these records. If 
another library has already cataloged a book we are adding to 
our collection we can use their record, editing it as necessary, 
to produce cards for our catalog. The catalog cards are 
computer printed in Ohio, alphabetized and mailed to us 
ready for filing.
At the present time the data base has only monograph 
holdings and can be searched by the author and/or title of 
the book. Eventually the data base will be expanded to 
include serial holdings. Subject searching capabilities will also 
be added.
Every time a library uses a record to produce catalog cards 
a symbol for that library is added to the list of other libraries 
owning the same work. This holdings list can be used in 
making decisions for purchase and for locating books not in 
the collection.
The OCLC data base contains more than 1.5 million 
bibliographic records and grows at a rate of over 3,000 
records-a day. The on-line union catalog provides more than 
4.5 million location listings.
More recently we have been experimenting with another 
computer application in the library. We are currently access
ing Lockheed data bases from a terminal in the Engineering 
and Science library for the purpose of performing on-line 
literature searches. The data bases were developed from 
traditional abstracting and indexing services available in the 
library in hard copy and are used to expand and update these 
services. Some of the fields covered by the data bases include 
chemistry, physics, biology, education, psychology, business 
and economics. At the present time such searches are expen
sive and the costs are born by the user.
Both of these computer applications are designed to 
improve and expand traditional library service. They also 
serve to underscore the change which has been taking place in 
libraries everywhere in recent years.
The information explosion of the last twenty years has 
placed a tremendous burden on all libraries both in terms of 
what they can purchase and in what they can store and has 
seriously compromised the ability of any library to remain 
self-sufficient. As the' ability to maintain comprehensive 
collections declines the emphasis in library service will be 
kely to shift from providing material to providing access to 
iformation. Of necessity libraries will have to define more 
recisely the needs of the public they are attempting to serve.
Our primary goal has always been to meet the infor-mation 
teeds of undergraduate students and faculty in their class00m work. We are also committed to providing the informa
tion needed to support on-going research programs. In 
addition the library places a high priority on service in 
keeping with President Dohertys statement that the basis 
for judging library facilities should be the service rendered to 
faculty and students. These seem to me to be reasonably 
attainable objectives both now and in the future, objectives 
which, if properly implemented will allow the library to 
make a real contribution to the educational goals of the 
university.
Ruth Corrigan 
Director, University Libraries
iHtiHJ *,J,tH WR HCC T,,iRJ*
eplspEldor :IfGupg h df nDmmsw 
Ski uG gGGw aN
All members of the campus community are invited to attend. Staff 
members are requested to attend. Refreshments will be served.

---------------------------------------------------

announcements
Page 4THE TARTAN-September 30, 1975
Senior Administration & Management
Science students will meet in the GSIA 
Auditorium at 4:30, Tuesday, September 
30. Class representatives will be elected. 
Professor Kerr and Ms. Johnson will dis
cuss plans for the coming year, and answer 
questions.
Scotch 'n Soda: Dancers and string musi
cians needed for "Two Dreams,'' a classi
cal-jazz musical. Auditions will be held 
6-8pm, Thurs.(Oct. 2), in Rm. 45 Skibo. 
For further information call Howard 
Kaplan 687-0434.
Housing and Other Campus Services?
A discussion of present and future trends 
by Vice President for Business Affairs, 
Richard Van Horn; Director of Campus 
Services, Steve Zalewski; and Dean of 
Resident Life, Charles Williams. Extensive 
question and answer period will be includ
ed. 12:30, Thursday, Oct. 2nd in the 
Wherrett Room, Skibo. Bring your lunch 
and a friend. Sponsored by Campus Pro
gram Planning in cooperation with the 
Department of Student Activities.
Rally, Thursday, Sept. 25, against rate
increase and the automatic fuel cost ad
justment rip-off recently exposed. 12 noon 
to 1:00; Plaza next ot the State Office 
Building, 300 Liberty Avenue, Downtown. 
Public Utilities Commission Hearing at the 
same time. Call 683^4531 for more infor
mation and possible transportation.
"Alcohol, Sex and Fertility," will be the
topic of this week's free public seminar 
to be held at the Central Medical Pavil
ion on Thursday, October 2, 1975 begin
ning at 7:30 pm.
This seminar which is the third in a series 
of eleven will be held in the Central Med
ical Pavilion dining room, located on the 
first floor. The session will be conducted 
by a medical specialist and a question and 
answer period will be provided.
The Central Medical Pavilion is located at 
1400 Centre Avenue, directly across from 
the Civic Arena. Enclosed parking is avail
able in the adjoining parking garage.
The opening Bagel and Lox Brunch will be
held at 11 a.m. on Sunday, Oct. 5, in the 
2nd floor lobby, 315 S. Beliefield Ave.
It is sponsored by Bnai Brith Hillel-Jewish 
University Center.
The student senate health fund, a loan for
medical services (including abortions) to 
those in financial need, is run through the 
Peer Help Center.
Support the National CLEAN ENERGY
PETITION (endorsed by Ralph Nader). 
Give yourself and your children a sunshine 
futurenot a radioactive one. Call 931- 
0136 or write Franklin Gage 153 E St. SE, 
Washington, D.C. 20003
Job Market and Women's Consciousness
Meeting sponsored by the Motar Board 
Senior Womens Honorary Society with 
Lois Fowler, Assoc. Prof. English; Marylou 
Haugh, Assist. Dir. pf Career Placement & 
Services, and Helen O'Banon, Assoc. Dean 
CIT. Open to the campus community. 
Sun. Oct. 5 at 4:-00 p.m. in Henderson 
Lounge.
Israeli Dancing sponsored by Bnai Brith
Hiflel-Jewish University Center is held 
every Thurs., 7:30 p.m., in the Hillel 
Lounge, 315 S. Belief ield Ave.
Students helping students. If you need
someone to talk to, stop in at the Peer 
Help Center, Baker Hall 150-A or call 
687-7414, 621-9900 or campus extension 
8874. Hours: Mon. through Fri. 9:30 a.m. 
to 5:00 p.m. and 7:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m., 
Fri. til 4:00 a.m., Sat. 7:00 p.m. to 4:00 
a.m., Sun. 7:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m. Phone 
answers 24 hr. a day (621-9900).
Kosher lunches served daily at Cafe Hillel
located at 315 S, Belief ield Ave. Deli Day 
is Thurs. Lunches are served 11:30 to 
1 p.m. on the third floor and sponsored by 
Bnai Brith Hillel-Jewish University Center.
Undergraduate seniors who are considering
law school should take the LSAT this Fall. 
The next registration deadline is November 
10, 1975 to take the test on December 6, 
the last time it will be given this Fall. 
Professor Thomas Kerr, 206 GSIA, PreLaw . Advisor, has LSAT information.
The Peer Help Center arranges free tutoring
in all CIT and MIS introductory level 
courses, and in introductory courses in 
architecture, economics, social relations, 
foreign languages, and expository writing.
Bicentennial Convocation on Religious
Liberty. The National Conference of 
Christians and Jews and the University 
and City Ministries invite you to attend 
both the workshop sessions and the assem
bly, or you may choose to attend either 
program. Workshops from 4:006:30pm. 
Assembly at 8:00pm. September 29, 1975. 
Rodef Shalom Temple, Fifth Avenue and 
Mgrewood, Oakland.
B'NAI B'RITH HILLEL - 
JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
OPENING 
BAGEL & LOX BRUNCH
II A.M. Sunday October 5 
Where? 2nd floor lobby 
315 S. Belief Ield Avenue 
near Carnegie Museum
Cost for food: $1.25
315 S. BELLEFIELD AVENUE (ACROSS FROM HEINZ CHAPEL)
621-8875
Hamilton and Kirkland Colleges are spon
soring the Second Annual Stephen Fensterer Memorial Folk Festival to be held 
May 1-4, 1975. A crafts fair, square dance, 
and free workshops will be held in addition 
to the usual musical competition. Compet
ition is limited to the first 50 amateur 
(non-union) performers. April 15 is the 
deadline for competition applications. 
For information concerning the festival 
and applications write: Box 691, Kirkland 
College, Clinton, N.Y. 13323.
Human Sexuality Lecture: A program on
Male Sexuality will be held on Wednesday, 
October 1 at 7:00pm in Breed Hall. In re
lating to the man's sexual role in body, 
mind and spirit, this lecture will cover the 
male sexual response cycle: relationship 
of age to level and type of sexual activ
ity; and the effects of the male role in 
society on his role as sexual being. Dr. 
Maurice Cerul, Clinical Assistant, Prof
essor of Psychiatry, University of Pitts
burgh, School of Medicine.
The U.S.China Peoples Friendship Associ
ation will hold a China Day Festival on Sat
urday, October 4, from 3 to 8pm at the 
Friends Meeting House, 4836 Ellsworth 
Avenue in Shadyside. There will be films, 
music, slide shows and literature on New 
China, along with Chinese food. The 
public is invited.
The Woman's Collective is sponsoring a dis
cussion on Consciousness-Raising Groups 
lead by Dr. Morgan of the Counseling 
Center and Cathy Cook, SUPA. Female, 
male and co-ed C-R Groups can be set up 
for those interested. Thursday, October 2, 
6:00 pm, Room 45 in Skibo.
Student Organizational Workshop  Part II
entitled "Marketing Your Product" will 
be held on Sat., Oct. 4 at the Faculty 
Lounge, Skibo from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Members of the CMU faculty and adminis
tration will discuss, with participating 
student organizational preresentations, the 
following topics: how to determine the 
effectiveness of your organizaiton; mechan
isms for evaluating your structuce and ser
vice; and marketing your activity to the 
campus community. Lunch will be pro
vided so please sign up in advance at the 
Skibo Info. Desk.
PHWWRCR,kW
Typing - Printing Professors, Instructors,
Students. Professional looking term pa
pers, theses, reports, manuscripts, etc. Call 
481-3041.
Earn up to $80.00 per month for 4 hours
of your time per week. Donate plasma at 
Sera-Tec Biological, 3407 Forbes Ave. 
(next to Arby's). Open 8:45 to 5:30 Mon
day through Friday. 682-3190.
Girl wanted two days a week to do light
cleaning for house in Squirrel Hill 
421-2219 or 421-3789.
Leaders needed for Zionist Youth Group.
If have Jewish-Zionist education, and 
interested, call 521-4877.
HP 45 in excellant condition for sale.
$200 including all original packaging 
and instructions. Price is negotiable. 
Call 682-4557 or *441-5211 and ask 
for Gary.
(Millier 1 Male Sexuality 
8Iemale Sexuality 15Sexual Activity
a*Preventive Medicine?
29('out raeeitionCoiit inucclrvcml lei* S I Veinanev & Cliiklliirili
12llomcMicxsiality
1Sex & the Law
All lectures or consecutive Wednesdays (except for Preventive Medicine?" 
which is Tuesday, October 21) at 7 PM in Breed Hall, Margaret Morrison 
Carnegie College. For brochure, contact Student Activities, Skibo 103, X214.
Sponsored by the Department of Student Activities
\
I
\ I

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANSeptember 30, 1975Page 5
Welcome Merit Scholars.Saudis
continued from page one
months. At firstthey lived in Scobell, then 
in Mudge. The interaction of the students 
on the campus, Prof. Goldsmith said, 
should facilitate cultural as well as lin
guistic understanding. During this time 
many of them spent the weekends with 
American families who helped them 
*in their practice of English. Now, all of 
them have their own apartments off-cam
pus.
According to Dr. Greenfield, the pres
ence of the Arabs, or of other foreign stu
dents, helps improve campus internation
alism and universal understanding. The 
Arabs are learning much concerning 
American technology and life, while some 
** Americans are beginning to benefit greatly 
from contact with this group.
Dr. Greefield stressed, however, that 
the Saudi Arabians training is not the only 
responsibility of the Translation Center-fai 
from it. It was established last fall through 
a grant from the Pittsburgh Foundation 
and offers programs in translation theory, 
technical/scientific translation, and literary
* translation. Prof. Juris Silenieks (head of 
the Modem Languages Dept.), who con
ceived the idea for the Center, said the 
Translation program opens new career 
opportunities for students in engineering, 
science, management and technical writmg.
As of now, more that 70 students have 
enrolled in the Centers regular degree pro> gram. Dr. Greenfield looks optimistically 
upon the development of the Center since 
she feels the need for professional transla
tors will increase greatly during the next 10 
years. Those who take such programs will 
have a good chance of getting well-paid
jobs since there are still many openings in 
the translation field. Furthermore, because 
of the relative scarcity of centers of its 
kind in the U.S., the CMU Translation Cen
ter is receiving more and more interest 
from U.S. firms and other governments.
According to Silenieks, the Center has 
3 main purposes: (1) to make available to
Concetta Greenfield, Director ot the Translation 
Center. Fred Shamllan
regularly enrolled students in other Univer
sity programs an opportunity to acquire 
professional translation skills, (2) to offei 
the translation program to groups of for
eign students whose countries have con
tracted with the University for such train
ing* (3) and to provide linguistic and cul
tural orientation services to foreign stu
dents entering regular university programs 
of study such as engineering, architecture, 
biological science, etc.
Pulpy pineapple punch was the raison 
detre of Thursday afternoons National 
Merit Scholars reception. In attendance 
were many of this Universitys faculy 
deans and an assortment of Freshmen and 
scattered upperclassmen. President Cyert 
addressed the audience, many of whom 
were forced to sit on the floor, due to a 
lack of Faculty Lounge chairs. Dr. Cyerts 
speech concerned the bright students 
necessity for a hard-work ethic. Substan
tial use was made of a Bertrand Russell 
quote that encouraged students to fulfill 
their ultimate potential. He also urged the 
students that if you ever feel you arent 
getting the kind of education you want 
here, please see me-- because youre the 
kind of people we want CMU to serve. 
The students were quite attentive, despite 
their discomfort. As Humanities freshman, 
John Morris commented, Dr. Cyerts 
speeech was more controversial than the 
punch. Dr. Cyert made polite excuses for 
the fact that all Merit certificates had not 
been available for presentation. After Dr. 
Cyerts fifteen minute speech, most of the 
students quickly dispersed. The gathering 
was planned to honor CMUs new Nation
al Merit Scholars and introduce them, to 
one another. This years Freshman class 
numbered 60 Scholars among its ranks
(the upperclasses total 51). Dr. Cyert noted 
that this was the largest group of National 
Merit Scholars CMU has ever accepted.
The students present in the overcrowded 
lounge later reflected on the reception. 
One student, wishing to remain anonymous, 
stated: It was really ludicrous. Most of 
the people were making inane small talk, 
which was probably an accomplishment for 
them, berause they seemed rather dull.
Center Launched
continued from page u..c
Civics, Education, Economics, American 
History, and African and Asian Studies. 
Recently published works include texts 
and audio-visual materials for courses in 
American Urban Studies designed for 
secondary school and community college 
students.
Teacher training is a major concern of 
the Center. CMU will continue to conduct 
special institutes each summer to familiar
ize high school and junior college educators 
with new curriculum materials.
The Center will play a key role on 
campus in coordinating a variety of inter
nal programs concerned with teaching 
methods in which CMU faculty are cur
rently involved. It will also provide advice 
and support in faculty efforts to develop 
new curricula.
The new organization, which will be 
under the direction of Edwin Fenton, 
professor of history and Director of Social 
Studies Curriculum Center, will provide 
a focus for campus-wide efforts in curricu
lum development, teacher training, and ed
ucational research projects.
FREE PREGNANCY TEST AND RELATED COUNCILING j 
MONDAY--SATURDAY 9:00-5:00 }
| ALLEGHENY REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CENTER ) 
| CALL 661-8811 J
JREAD TOO SLOW!!
STOP READING LIKE THEY DID 200 YEARS AGO...
TO LEARN HOW ATTEND A FREE INTRODUCTORY LESSON
INCREASE YOUR READING SPEED 
& Comprehension FREE
Come spend an amazing hour with us at a FREE 
NO OBLIGATION LESSON. Not only will you in
crease your reading speed and comprehension 
immediately, you will also learn how you can 
increase your reading speed 3-10 times and 
improve your comprehension in all types of 
materials.
The FREE INTRODUCTORY LESSONS will be held TUESDAY 
thru THURSDAY at 4:30 and 7:30 P. M. 
JEWISH COMMUNITY CfcNIER - 31 5 S. Belief ield Avenue, 
Oakland Room 408
THE READING INSTSTUTE 
212 William Penn Hotel Pittsburgh, Pa. 15219
(412) 281-7413
Licensed by The Pennsylvania Department of Education
STOP BEING MISLEAD BY UNREALISTIC Cl AIMS AND HIGH PRICES 
BEFORE YOU TAKE ANY OTHER READING COURSE COMPARE I

---------------------------------------------------

"THE MOTHER 
AND THE WHORE99
Page 6THE TARTANSeptember 30, 1975
by Mark Evan Chimsky
In this month, when the cover story of 
Harpers details the rise of self-love, Tom 
Wolfe-ishly coining it The New Narcis
sism, Jean Eustaches new film, The 
Mother and the Whore is particularly per
tinent. Considering that the film was made 
in 1969 and witheld from release for four 
years, Eustaches ontarget vision seems al
most prophetic. The film is one of this 
decades masterpieces; it pre-dates Last 
Tango in Paris and was most certainly 
influential in the formation of Bertoluccis 
style. Filmed in black and white, there is 
a marvelous emphasis on space and shad
ow, which makes it identifiable with the 
Bertolucci of Last Tango and recalls the 
most characteristic work of D.W. Griffith. 
The Mother and the Whore is the con
nection, the missing link between two 
emergent works of cinematic develop
ment.
The Mother and the Whore is one of 
the few recent films which creates distincly modern archetypes. Jean-Pierre Leaud 
plays the sulky Alexandre, who wears 
fanciful scarves knotted like ties and reads 
Proust as if he were cautiously asserting 
some kind of smart individuality. Alexan
dre is very* much akin to those bright 
young men in Hemingway who find time 
an excessive thing and spend most of it 
wasting themselves away. Eustaches genius 
is in his allowing for the gradualness of 
characterization. We begin by liking 
Alexandre (the off-beat is always so in
gratiating), but slowly, as we pity him 
through the break-up of one relationship 
and watch him go divided between two 
other loves, one old, one new, we come 
to appreciate the random motivations 
and casual pettinesses that make up his life. 
Eustache plays on Antonionis Blow-Up 
motif- but here applies it to character. In 
Blow-Up it was a simple snapshot which 
was enlarged many times over; with each 
successive printing, the implications of the 
photograph seemed to be proportionately 
enhanced: the bush that once merely serv
ed as prop for a romantic pastoral shot is 
finally realized as dark camouflage for a 
murder. With each scene of The Mother 
and the Whore, Alexandre is reduced to 
little more than a dilettante on the drift 
he is fascinated by nothing so much as his 
his own histrionics. The length of the film 
helps. Eustache builds his best effects with 
slight, throwaway repetitions; through 
them we discover that Alexandre only
skims Proust, that the book is, in fact, an 
idle prop used to camouflage an idle intel
lect.
Eustaches contemporariness is exact 
and we delight in the recognition of New 
Wave characters, whose idiosyncracies are 
indicative of the style of an age. The 
funniest is a friend of -Alexandres, an 
intellectual compatriot reclusing his way 
into middle-age. He is the supreme, schoolbookish bohemian, frightened by his age
and myopically seeing himself as too 
solemnly mature to admit it. His look is a 
practised dishevelment, his intense earnest
ness is farcial-- he is Woody Allen as a 
quasi-profound esthete. The character is 
fresh, immediate, identifiable. Eustache 
draws on the sardonic incisiveness of 
Proust, and without ever turning to cari
cature, creates an original human type for 
the screen.
Franoise Lebrun gives the most striking 
performance in the film as Alexandres 
hapless pick-up, Veronika. She is the wellused whore, with a vulnerable streak that 
she lets go exposed. Her mistake is that she 
loves. Alexandres is that he never will. 
He and -his older mistress, Marie, are both 
too self-concerned to yield up anything to 
one another. As a couple, they cancel each 
other out. Their relationship is savage and 
ugly and Veronika attempts a passionate 
ambiguity rather than trying to risk comp
etition with Marie. Veronikas promiscuity 
seems the result of a safety-in-numbers 
sense of romanticism. She makes the gamb
le less frightening and diminshes the odds 
by multiplying the men-- one of them has 
to be Mr. Right. Her sexuality is related 
to a moral love ethic. Alexandre and Marie 
recruit other lovers for revenge of flatteryreasons so essentially self-serving, theyre 
masturbatory. Veronikas lengthy mono
logue about the unjustified naming of 
whores is violent in a breakable way. She 
challenges everyone with the damning 
title and weeps at the gross importance we
have given the word. For her, sex is worth
less without promise of a child. Her naivete 
here would be offensive if it were not so 
well-meant. Veronika is the whore as mother-worshipper; she seeks a communion that 
is entirely selfless- one in which the 
love is purely for the other. It is an amaz
ing speech that is so rhythnically coarse 
and forceful, it becomes a sort of poetry. 
It is Eustaches plea for humanity, which 
he contrasts with the self-pitying anger of 
Alexandre and Marie, each posing at oppos
ite ends of the bed, the empty space be
tween them awful as their silence.
The ending, with Alexandre proposing 
marriage and the sickly Veronika accepting 
and throwing up is a brutally ironic com
ment on the hopelessness of this love. Even 
Veronikas body revolts against the firm 
impulses of her heart. It is comedy at its 
most tragic pitch.
The film is brilliant, though perhaps 
too political to be emotionally effective 
the way Bergmans Scenes From A Mar
riage was effective. A subtle didacticism
Atlantic
Mantra*
*AII about TM (and Mantra) in the October Atlantic on newsstands now!
gets in the way. Still, Eustache is able to 
cut to the heart and heartlessness of his 
characters, and sustain his compelling vis
ion for the films three and a half hours. 
Eustache is acutely aware of the potential
ities of black and white photography, and 
the film has the feel of understatement, 
even during its most violent scenes. The 
composition does not depend on stark, 
early-Bergmanesque high contrasts, but 
rather on a muted play of light and dark; 
in this film, greys are predominant, vague 
and pathetic as any wasteland. Technically, 
The Mother and the Whore is Eustaches 
homage to D.W. Griffith. There are won
derful moments that are straight out of 
Griffith, notably the pin-point images 
which telescope out into full-screen pic
tures, and the primitive, daguerreotype 
shadowing of performers in close-up.
Like Griffith, Eustache is not afraid of 
the risk that will heighten and astonish our 
perception of a character. In the closing 
moments of the film, there is an extended 
shot of Marie, arms folded, sitting on the 
bed listening to a badly-worn Piaf album. 
Eustache does not move his camera, and 
Marie herself barely shifts position. It is 
life as a grim stasis; we might almost mis
take the image for a photograph were it 
not for the irritating revolutions of the 
record in the corner. This vinyl soul of 
the scene is relentless; all mechanical 
motion. Marie cups her face with her 
hands, as if to blot out everything that is 
not herself. With sublime accuracy, Eus
tache draws out the scene for an effect 
which is ultimately hypnotic-- the record, 
Marie, all are conformations of mono
chromatic shapes; the body as undistin
guished as the bed. Its an excruciating 
device which mocks Maries selfishness, her 
inward turning.
The Mother and the Whore reverber
ates with a vital humanism that pitches a 
basic interdependence against the urbane 
fashionability of narcissism. Veronika de
plores any sex that is non-regenerative, and 
we are at first put off by her crude ideal
ism, galvanized by a whores Victorianism. 
But it is Veronika who makes us see 
through ourselves, and Eustache is right to 
make her an extremist. Her severity be
comes a nesessary negation of a culture 
where self-love has evolved into a common
place religion. Eustaches vision is intrinsi
cally compassionate and equally intolerant 
of the non-humane. He knocks us off our 
chic little bases with a bold plea for hum
anity to only connect. His film express
es a singular uniqueness that is at the same 
time expansive. The Mother and the 
Whore is hard-edged, often beautiful; an 
extraordinary classic for our times.
Note: A historical insignificance is conse
quential here. In 1914, D.W. Griffith start
ed on a project titled The Mother and the 
Law,* which concerned modern injust
ice and the need to establish a brotherhood 
which would not be afraid of its own hum
anity. Unhappy with the narrow scope of 
the single-story structure, he crossed the 
initial drama with three other, more epic 
plot lines and renamed the film Intoler
ance.
*In Eustaches The Mother and the 
Whore, the whore is the law, the moral 
actuality in a lawless game of love.
Sponsored by the Pangbom Film Series at 
Pitt, The Mother and the Whore" played 
only one night in Pittsburgh. It has had 
similarly brief engagements around the 
country, due to the difficulty it has en
countered finding a distributor and suffic
ient advertising. With your support, CMU 
will be able to bring the film to campus 
this year.
AMATEUR STRING PLAYERS: Looking for violinists, violists,cellists and 
bass players who would be interested in playing Baroque and early 
Classical string orchestra music for self-entertainment.
Contact Norman Wien during the day at 462-2000, Ext.239 or even
ings at 731-4328.
B'NAI B RITH HILLELJEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
CREATIVE AND TRADITIONAL
Sabbath services 
Every Friday Evening 7 p. m.
Hi I lei - 3rd floor - Oakland Jewish Community Center
313 S.Bellefield Avenue (Aero from Heinz Chapel)
621-8875

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANSeptember 30, 1975Page 7
Well whadaya know iridescent Oct
ober is once again upon the horizon of 
time here at CMU. Its that month of the 
year which brings back the nostalgic iden
tifications of our childhood past. Memor
ies of colored leaves, hollow pumpkins and 
two-toned candy corn. What does Oct
ober mean to us now, as we waddle our 
way through 49-credits of self-paced dilif-* gince? It means a 3 day escape on Home
coming weekend; a one day heart attack on 
Mid Semester Grade day; and five three 
and a half hour chances to see one of our 
favorite childhood shows.
You quessed it! The Greatest Show On 
Earth is coming to town. The all new Bi
centennial Edition of Ringling Bros, and 
Barnum and Bailey Circus will play a 5-day 
engagement at the Pittsburgh Civic Arena, 
Wed, October 29 through Sunday, Novem
ber 2. Featuring the sensational and world 
famous animal trainer Gunther Gebel 
Williams, the Bicentennial Edition of the 
ri.Circus also presents dozens of European 
-circus stars in their American Debut, in
cluding the stunning high-wire artist, 
Philippe Petit. Five elaborate new produc
tion spectacles, representing an investment 
of over one million dollars in costumes and 
special effects will be unveiled in this mag
nificent production that is to be executed 
by over 500 performers and animals. Mail
> orders for tickets are now being accepted 
at the Pittsburgh Civic Arena, Pitt. Pa. 
15219. Ticket prices are only 4, 5 and 6 
dollars. Tickets will also be on sale later 
this month at the Arena Box Office and at 
all Ticketron offices. Take a pal or two and 
reminisce a little!
If youre not an escapist like me, and 
you like jazz, you might feel more comfor
table in the ambience of U. Pitts, fifth an
nual Jazz Educational Seminar. The Uni
versity of Pittsburgh, on Oct. 9-11, will 
host its fifth annual Jazz Seminar for mus
ic educators, professional musicians and 
students. Among the noted jazz figures
serving as seminar faculty will be: Jaki 
Byord (piano), Kenny Burrell (guitar), 
Richard Davis (bass). Leonard Feather 
(critic, author and musician), Louis Hays 
(percussion). Joe Henderson (tenor sax 
and arranger), Lou Soloff (trumpet) and 
Sonny Stitt (alto and tenor sax ). The 
Celestial Sounds, a group from Washing
ton D.C., will also make an appearance, as 
well as a large contingent of Pittsburghbased jazz musicians. Dedicated to the late 
saxophonist, Julian Cannonball Adderly, Pitts three-day jazz stand will assemble 
the talents and knowledge of educators, 
musicians, critics and representatives of 
the music business form all over the world. 
The entire 3 day gig will culminate with a 
stellar jazz concert led by Dr. Nathan 
Davis. Call 624-4150 for more informa
tion on this upcoming spectacle.
For people who would rather bounce 
to the tunes of Baroque music, I am glad 
to announce that Hector Olivera, gifted 
organist, will play his third annual recital 
Heinz Hall on Saturday, Oct. 18 at 8pm, in 
a varied selection of works from Bach to 
Franck. Mr. Olivera just returned from a 
tremendously successful Western tour, 
where he was cheered by audiences with 
standing ovations. The Heinz Hall concert 
will feature Olivera playing the great 
Rodgers Touring organ, a unique instru
ment rarely heard in this city. If you think 
Keith Emerson or Rick Wakeman are good, 
you should hear Hectors Improvisations 
in a Given Thime, a feat for which he is 
famous. Tickets are now on sale at the 
Heinz Hall Box Office. Call 281-5000. 
Ticket prices are 4, 5 and 6 dollars.
On a different wavelength of music 
Rod Stewart and Faces will present a very 
succulent concert at the Civic Arena on 
October 9. Also at the Civic Arena, on 
October 23, will be the Doobie Brothers 
who at this very moment are getting 
psyched in St. Louie. Leon Redbone, 
another dazzling star in the music world,
will present his concert at the University 
of Pittsburgh on October 3 and 4. Try to 
see at least one of these Fine concerts 
Muntiny on the Bounty, that oldie but 
goldie film will be shown in DH 2210 on 
October 3 at 5pm, 8:30pm andl2pm. 
There is also a vivid variety of other events 
in and around campus this weekend. For 
further info, check at the Information 
Desk in Skibo.
Dont waste this weekend twiddling 
your thumbs in a stuffy room. Get out and 
do something! Life is short and so are 
weekends, especially if youre one of those 
unfortunate individuals who needs all the 
sleep he can get on Saturdays and Sundays.
Have a great, first October weekend!
So long, 
Michael Marinangeli
RESEARCH PAPERS
iS:BWHJkW :J CR, 
Send for your up-to-date, 160 page, mail order catalog of 5,500 
topics. Enclose $1.00 to cover postage and handling.
COLLEGIATE RESEARCH
1720 PONTIUS AVENUE, SUITE 201 LOS ANGELES,CALIFORNIA
Name___
Address. 
City______
State.Z'PFAST INEXPENSIVE 
PRINTINGG//? STOOPBE
INSTANT PRINTING CENTER 
98 Penn Circle West, Corner Penn Ave. E. Liberty 
(Ample Parking in Thorofare Parking Lot)
362-4445
REPORTS  RESUMES  CATALOGS  POSTERS 
LETTERHEADS  BUSINESS CARDS  FLYERS 
OFFICE FORMS  BOOKLETS  SCHEDULES
tjp \Im-.
Pittsburgh Chamber Music Society
1975-1976 Season
October 20Guarneri String Quartet, 
Michael Grebanier, Guest Cellist 
>'o.i>u>1 November 24 Pablo Casals Piano Trio
Juilliard String Quartet 
Cortiposers String Quartet 
The Aeolian Chamber Players 
All Concerts at 8:30 p . m. in the Carnegie Music Hall 
Special Rate for Students: $5.00 for the Series I.D. Cards Must Be Shown 
SPECIAL TICKET SALE: SKIBO LOBBY  October 2-9:30 a. m. - 4 p. m. 
REGULAR SALES AT SKIBO INFORMATION DESK- From October 3 on
November 24 
January 19 
February 23 
April 5
FREE PREGNANCY 
TESTS
ALLEGHENY WOMEN'S 
CENTER 
MON.-FRI. 9-5 SAT. 8-4
FOR INFO:
362-2920

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8THE TARTAN-September 30, 1975
THE LAWS OF DISCO JAZZ
Laws has always been more traditionally 
classical. His previous works, which include 
Rite of Spring and Afro Classic, stress a 
different Hubert Laws. This older material 
displays Laws as a soft performer. He even 
tried his hand at the famous Brandenberg 
Concertos.
There is no law against changing or 
experimenting with different styles: thats 
how most of the great artist survive 
without boring their audiences to death. 
Its just a shame that Hubert Laws is giving 
in to the temptation of pop success, for his 
past works are enchanting.
Herbert Laws has given listeners a really 
fun album but I just wonder if thats 
enough. The Chicago Theme lends the ear 
some easy sounds, great dance music Ill 
grant you. But I am still bothered by the 
fact that the audience is getting cheated. 
There are no so-called precious moments 
presented here. Its as if Hubert Laws has 
pushed for a greater appeal to the physical 
aspect of jazz music. You cant help but 
want to move, strut your stuff. Might as 
well give it a chance; you may not find it 
too bad.
mixed Quiff????
AMERICAN FAMILY PLANNING 
SERVICES
LOCAL ABORTION & 
BIRTH CONTROL FACILITIES 
215-449-2006
*
RAMSEY LEWIS
in Concert
CMU Gym Friday October 10
$3.50 &CMU I. D.f  $4.50 without
Tickets Available - Skibo Information Desk, Pitt 
Student Union, National Record Mart
In case youve been looking too hard to 
notice let me tell you that jazz music 
has been gaining enormous popularity of 
late. Even though jazz has been going 
strong on the college campus for the last 
forty years, the last few months have seen 
jazz actually competing with rock and pop 
sounds. Now that the newest fad is the 
disco sound, jazz is turning back towards 
the dance scene. Many new nightclubs are 
springing up that offer young people a 
chance to strut their stuff. The music is 
simply a form of jazz that is described with 
adjectives such as funky, jam-in, and soul
ful. Popular jazz has put the elusive BEAT 
back into its vocabulary.
This disco sound is not really new. Its 
origins can be found in old material, going 
as far back as Jr. Walker and the All Stars 
or many of the early Motown greats. 
Herbie Hancock really got the whole move
ment started with his Head Hunters release. 
Head Hunters became a success only when 
re-released a year and a half after its initial 
debut. Hancock then went on to enjoy one 
of the greatest commercial triumphs in jazz 
history.
Throughout this past year, a number of 
old and new jazz-soul greats have been 
jumping on the disco band wagon. Grover 
Washington, who is an excellent saxo
phonist, has been at the top of the charts 
for months with his Magic Fingers album. 
Washington is just one of many artists 
recording on the famous CTI label. CTI 
stands for Creed Taylor Incorporated. 
Creed Taylor produces all the releases on 
his label and his product is the envy of 
hordes of jazz artists and their produceres.
Flutist nubert Laws seemed a fine 
choice for examining because he has 
achieved stability as a performer and also 
because he has had to change his style to 
fit in with the disco plan. Laws Chicago 
Theme practically leaped to the tope of the 
jazz heap and the title cuf is receiving a go 
good deal of FM play.
One oi tne secrets oto Hubert Laws 
new album is the superb use of horns. Bob 
James, who has carved out a tremendous 
career with his own recordings, arranged 
most .of the album. James knows precisely 
when to pull out the stops on the boogie
drain. Bob Jame really gives the whole ses
sion a sense of well planned direction. 
James gets some fine help from soloists 
Eric Gale (guitar), David Sanborn (sax), 
and Ron Carter (bass). These musicians 
are often found on CTI recordings and 
they have their own solo discs.
Guitarist Eric Gale delivers an 
astounding electric solo on the third cut, 
You Make Me Feel Band New/ David 
Sanborn delivers a shining sax lick or two, 
but the man in the spot-light, Hubert 
Laws, is usually the featured artist. This 
could be the root of the entrie problem.
Syracuse University
1975 Spring Semester Abroad
FLORENCE Italian, Fine Arts,
History, Political Science
LONDON English, Political Science,
Drama, Art, Communications
MADRID Spanish Language & Literature,
Economics, Anthropology
French Language & Literature, 
Religion, History
History, Fine Arts, Anthropology, 
Dutch Culture, Sociology
STRASBOURG
AMSTERDAM
11 Applications due soon"
Information & Application
DIVISION OF INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS ABROAD
335 Comstock Avenu^
Syracuse, N.Y. 13210 
(Tel. 3155*423-3471)


---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANSeptember 30, 1975Page 9
J
The uncompromising ones.
/? 3 H S6 7 0 -<? / ;
OFFOHOEQRAO
Vx
y*
SIN COS TAN
SI*-' COS- TANm
i xiy
<* R
R* ex
? f> Se
STO
l LOG
RCl
IO* J
ENTER ? CHS EEXJIT TT
CLX
CLR
nnV3mm
m
a
1 nai+* m v* v. m * T* P AC K o m *
The Hewlett-Packard HP-21 Scientific $125.00*
The Hewlett-Packard 
HP-25 Scientific Programmable $195.00*
The calculations you face require no less.
Today, even so-called non-technical courses 
(psych, soc, bus ad, to name 3) require a vari
ety of technical calculationscomplicated cal
culations that become a whole lot easier when 
you have a powerful pocket calculator.
Not surprisingly, there are quite a few such 
calculators around, but ours stand apart, and 
ahead. We started it all when we introduced the 
worlds first scientific pocket calculator back in 
1972, and weve shown the way ever since.
The calculators you see here are our newest, 
the first of our second generation. Both offer you 
technology you probably wont find in compet
itive calculators for some time to come, if ever.
Our HP-21 performs all arithmetic, log and 
trig calculations, including rectangular/polar 
conversions and common antilog evaluations.
Its display is fully formatted, so you can choose 
between fixed decimal and scientific notation.
Our HP-25 does all thatand much, much 
more. Its programmable, which means it can 
solve automatically the countless repetitive 
problems every science and engineering student 
faces.
With an HP-25, you enter the keystrokes 
necessary to solve the problem only once. 
Thereafter, you just enter the variables and 
press the Run/Stop key for an almost instant 
answer accurate to 10 digits.
Before you invest in a lesser machine, by all 
means do two things: ask your instructors 
about the calculations their courses require; and 
see for yourself how effortlessly our calculators 
handle them.
Both the HP-21 and HP-25 are almost 
certainly on display at your bookstore. If not, 
call us, toll-free, at 800-538-7922 (in Calif. 
800-662-9862) for the name of an HP dealer 
near you.
HEWLETT ^PACKARD
Sales and service from 172 offices in 65 countries. 
Dept. 658B, 19310 Pruneridge Avenue, Cupertino, CA 95014
615/38
'Suggested retail price, excluding applicable state and local taxes 
Continental U.S., Alaska & Hawaii.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-THE TARTAN-September 30, 1975
sports
Cross-country runners after victory.
Photo by Rick Frantz
CROSS COUNTRY WINS 
SECOND STRAIGHT
By Charles Mitch
Running in a heavy rain, the CrossCountry Team coasted to their second vic
tory of the season beating Westminister 19- 
42. Scoring for CMU were Jack Daly fin
ishing in 23:55; Dave Barby, Mark How
ard, and John Lewandowski tied for sec
ond place all with times of 24:30.
Coach Meckley pointed out that the 
wet course slowed the runners time by at 
least thirty seconds. The first two meets of 
this season were plagued with rain,making 
the hilly Schenley Park course treacherous.
This seasons victories extend the Tar
tans eight game win streak of last year to
PAID VOLUNTEERS NEEDED... 
(Year Round)
Healthy, MALE volunteers, age 21-30, 150-200 pounds, needed for Drug Testing 
Program on absorption rates of prescription medications. All Studies are conducted un
der strict medical supervision.
 Progrom involves blood samples drawn by skilled venipuncture technicians before 
and after medication is ingested.
 Physical Exams will be given each Thursday between 9:00 a.m. and 11:00 a.m. in 
Room 335, Hotel Webster Hall.
NEW volunteers will be given a free physical exam, including complete blood 
chemistries. Pay scale ranges from $50.00-$500.00 depending upon time requirements 
of the study.
For Complete Details, Please Call
BIODECISION LABORATORIES, Inc.
Room 335, Webster Hall, 441 5 Fifth Avenue 
682-2022
Or Come Directly to the Physical Exam 
(PLEASE BRING PROOF OF AGE)
H/o/nensCollecN/e
Dr. Morgan of the 
Counseling Center 
and Cathy Cook, 
SUPA will lead a 
discussion on
CONSCIOUSNESS-RAISING GROUPS 
with the goal of setting up female, 
male or co-ed groups for those 
interested.
THURSDAY OCTOBER 2 6:00 P.M. 
RM 45 SKI BO.
TARTANS SMASH YEOMEN 35-13
ten in a row and give the runners a 22-6 
record for the last two years.
Last Saturday the Tartans traveled to 
Bethany to compete in the PAC Relays. 
Each runner ran a mile over Bethanys in
credibly steep and dangerous course. Be
fore the. meet, Coach Meckley expressed 
concern because many runners have been 
injured on this rough course in past years. 
He considered winning secondary to avoid
ing the loss of runners this early in the sea
son. The team placed 4th out of 8 teams.
On Saturday, October 4, CMU will host 
a dual meet against Hiram and Geneva at 
11:30. According to Coach Meckley, the 
team shouldnt have any trouble winning 
this event.
by Gerry Fraley
An opportunistic defense set up two 
touchdowns to power the Camegie-Mellon 
Tartans to a 35-13 rout of the Oberlin 
Yeomen Saturday at Oberlin, Ohio.
Despite the three touchdown winning 
margin, Oberlin played the Tartans even up 
through the first quarter. The teams 
traded first quarter scores: Harry Bonner, 
Oberlins quarerback, scored on a one 
yard run with 4:38 remaining in the 
quarter and Tech came back to take the 
ensuing kickoff 71 yards in 14 plays be
fore Dick West scored on a one yard 
dive with 0:05 remaining in the quarter 
to even the score at 7-7.
The Tartan defense broke the game 
open in the second quarter. Oberlin 
was forced to punt on their first possession 
of the quarter from their 29. Sophomore 
linebacker Keith Baker blew in unmolested; 
to block the John Hay punt. Baker fell on 
the ball in the end zone for the score. 
Defensive back Anthony Caine, 
playing his first game on defense after 
being switched from offense earlier in the 
week, picked off a Bonner pass on 
Oberlins first play and rambled to the 
Yeomen nine. Fullback Pat Counihan 
slammed in for the score two plays 
later to give the Tartans a 21-7 lead..
Tech padded their lead to 28-7 when 
quarterback Jay Duquette hooked up 
with sensational freshman receiver Bob 
Gatehouse on a 42 yard scoring toss 
with 3:31 left in the half.
The third quarter was scoreless, until 
the Tartans added to their lead late in 
the quarter. Freshman quarterback, Pete 
Antmarino, who had a second good outing 
in directing theTartan's veer offense,found 
Gatehouse with a 42 yard scoring nass. 
Antamarino was semingly trapped behind 
the line on the play but escaped and found 
Gatehouse for the score.
Oberlin added a meaningless score on 
a two yard pass from Bonner to tight end 
Dan Kunkel bringing the final score to 
35-13.CMUOBERLIN
FIRST DOWNS1714
YARDS RUSHING26585
YARDS PASSING131104
PASSES6-1311-28
INTERCEPTED BY21
PUNTS1-419-19.4
FUMBLES LOST30
YARDS PENALIZED8-1084-37
O Bonner 1 run (Kunkel kick)
C West 1 run (McMeekin kick)
C Baker blocked kick return
C Counihan 2 run (McMeekin kick)
C Gatehouse 42 pass from Duquette
C Gatehouse 42 pass from Antamarino
O Kunkel 2 pass from Bonner (pass failed)
JT THIS DOWN!
September 30-Deadline for IM co-rec 
volleyball, cross-country, water polo, 
and chess entries.
October 14-Deadline for IM soccer, 
volleyball, bowling, squash, and 
team table tennis.
Commissioners-Jim Moon-Cross-country, 
Bob Matysk-Water polo, and Jim 
Freedmen-chess.
Dorm Representatives for IM BoardAllan Goodfellow, Keith McDonald, 
and Chuck Fuellgraf
CMU 721 0735
OBERLIN 70 0613
IM Football Update
Majorswinloss
PIKA A20
BTP A20
All Stars20
ATO0-2
Dolphins11
SAE01
Spirit02
PKT A01
Intermediate A
KS10
GSIA11
STINK11
PIKA B10
DTD02
TX11
Clams11
Oilers11
Red Death20
McGilldoes 11
SN02
ZBT11
i
C-BOOK CORRECTIONS
At registration, all students supplied the following 
information, via the 3rd form for the inclusion 
in the student directory. If any of this information 
has since changed,from registration day, send 
the correct information to Alpha PHI Omega at 
box 100 campus mail.
Name.
Year_
Major,
PHONE.
New Local Address.
Another A. PHI, O. Service

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANSeptember 30, 1975Page 11
TARTANS TRIUMPH IN TEAM TENNISVARSITY + IM = MESS
Men and Women Varsity Tennis players 
were able to try a new kind of tennis on 
Saturday at CMU. Playing Duquesnes 
Netters, CMU finished first with a final 
score of 25-18.
The events for team tennis are mens 
and womens singles and doubles and 
mixed doubles. Total games won are 
added up to determine the match score.
In Saturdays match Elly Zimmerman 
won singles by a large margin, 6-0, to 
give CMU a lead of 19-16 going into mixed 
doubles. Gary Kemeny, CMUs number 
one ranked varsity player, teamed with 
Zimmerman in mixed doubles to clinch 
the match by a set score of 6-2.STREAKS
POSE
THREAT
by Gerry Fraley
Although it is only the fourth game of 
the season, the Carnegie-Mellon Tartans are 
faced with an extremely crucial game this 
Saturday when they travel to Cleveland to 
take on the John Carroll Blue Streaks.
Both teams have 1-1 records in the 
Presidents Athletic Conference and a loss 
would severely damage either teams 
title hopes.
The Streaks have 16 lettermen returning, 
spearheaded by the passing combination 
of quarterback John Wicinski and split 
end Donnell Lipford. The pair equalled 
an NCAA record with a 99 yard scoring 
pass during the Streaks 21-14 victory over 
Bethany two weeks ago.
The Tartans new veer offense began 
to show signs of life in Saturdays 35-13 
victory over non-conference foe Oberlin. 
The ground game produced 265 yards 
on 49 carries, headed by Gary Bonns 
104 yards on 13 carries and Dick Wests 
70 yards on 12 carries.
No serious injuries were incurred by 
the Tartans in the Oberlin game. The 
John Carroll contest will be broad
cast over WRCT-FM, 88.3.
When asked whether the team tennis 
concept has a future, CMUs Tennis Coach 
Peggy Russell said It can help the player 
who usually doesnt take an early lead in 
the match but one drawback is that it 
limits the number of participants severely.
The tournament scores were: Mens 
singles, Kemeny - Neal 5-7; Womens 
Singles, Zimmerman-Miller, 6-0; Mens 
Doubles, Silver- Carroll against WeisbandTanna 6-3; Womens Double, Klar-Meyer 
against Miller-Morse 2-6;-Mixed Doubles, 
Zimmerman-Kemeny against Unico-Miller 
6-2. Total CMU 25, Duquesne 18.
WOMEN V-BALL 
TOURNEY SOON
By Jane Fisk
CMUs Womens Volleyball Team has 
been invited to play in the West Virginia 
University Invitational Tournament. The 
tournament will be held October 3rd and 
4th. Friday, October 3rd the teams will 
compete in two pools. From this compe
tition, teams will be seeded into a single 
elimination tournament with a consolation 
bracket. These will be played Saturday 
morning. CMU is in the second pool with 
Penn State(Fayette) and West Virginia Uni
versity. Morris Harvey College, Duquesne 
University, and Shepherd College make up 
the first pool.
Some problems CMU has is that they 
only have two lettermen returning from 
last years winning squad (9-3 and cham
pions of the California State College Tour
nament). Lack of practice time will also be 
a factor. The season doesnt start until 
November. The team has great talent and 
with more practice and experience could 
become a winner again this year.
Members of the team are Elly Zimmer
man, Judy Parker, Davina Davies, Alrie 
Christian, Ingrid Goedicke, Audrey Gold
stein, Karlene Morgan, Crystal Hoffman, 
Karen Eldridge, Valerie Gilbert and Vickie 
Baker.
People interested in playing on the vol
leyball team during the regular season 
should come to practice starting Monday, 
October 13th at 4:30. Practices will be 
Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fri
days from 4:30 to 6:00.
by Elly Zimmerman 
Inconsistent rulings by the Intramural 
Activities Board over the past few years have 
caused considerable confusion in regard to 
the eligibility of varsity athletes in intram
ural sports. Most of the confusion stems 
from the unpublicized decisions of the IM 
Boar4-The Intramural Constitution is posted 
on the bulletin board in the gymnasium.
Students should be aware of the fact that the 
Constitution has been-mended but no one 
has kept track of the amendments except for 
what is buried in the minutes of Board 
Meetings. In order to find out what amend
ments were passed, a person would have to 
sift through the minutes of all the past 
meetings.
In several cases, the IM Board has over
ruled the IM Constitution. In the past, 
the Board has permitted one varsity swim
mer on each water polo team even through 
the IM Constitution specifically prohibits 
this, (Article VIII, Section 5).
Section 5. No varsity basketball player may 
participate in IM foul-shooting, no 
varsity swimmer may compete in 
IM water polo or water basketball 
and no varsity cross country runner 
may compete in the IM track meet.
Another case involves a varsity letterman in 
tennis. This person was allowed to compete 
in IM tennis even though he is now pract
icing with the team and will be playing 
varsity tennis in the spring. This ruling is in 
direct violation of Article VIII, Section 2b.
Section 2 a. Any student who is a mem
ber of a varsity sport cannot partic
ipate in any other intramural sport 
during the time he is engaged in the 
varsity sport, without his coachs 
permission.
b.Any student competing in a 
varsity sport cannot participate in 
that sport during the same school 
year. A varsity player who is not 
on probation and who quits the 
varsity before the end of the first 
semester may participate in that 
intramural sport the second semester 
providing that he neither played in 
any varsitv games the first semester, 
nor practiced with the team after the 
first game.
1. Competing in a varsity sport is 
defined as either practicing or 
playing on a varsity team after its 
schedule commences.
2. A varsity sport is one in which 
a participant can earn a letter or 
numerals.
c. No student team participating 
in an intramural sport shall be 
allowed to have on its roster more 
than one man who has won a varsity 
letter in that sport in college.
Overruling the Constitution is fine as long as 
there are reasons for the decisions and these 
reasons are consistent. However, when the 
reasoning becomes ambiguous and the 
decisions become inconsistent, confusion 
and uncertainty results. The time has come 
to clarify and reaffirm these decisions.
All varsity athletes should be 
eliminated from intramural. This rule would 
apply to lettermen as well as non-lettermen. 
If the player is on an official varsity team 
roster then he should not be allowed to 
compete in the same IM sport, whether that 
sport is in or out of season. Exceptions 
could be made for freshmen since their 
sports status has not been determined.
^iiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiimiiimiiimiiiitiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiimmmimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiimiiiiiimmimiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiE 
8 B'NAI B'RITH HILLEL-JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER I
ISRAELI DANCING
Every Thursday Night - 7:30 p.rr 
Where? HiMel Lounge 
3rd floor,31 5 S. Bellefield
CAFE HILLEL
For Lunch 
Open Monday trough Friday 
11:30 a. m. to 1: p.m. 
Every Thursday is Deli-Day
| Located in the Hillel Dining Club on the 3rd floor of | 
the Jewish Community Center
| 315 S.BELLEFIELD AVENUE (ACROSS FROM HEINZ CHAPEL) |
^IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIttllllllUlililllllllllllllltllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllimitNIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIllllllllltlllllllitlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll^
II
STUDENT 
OGRANIZATIONAL 
WORKSHOP - PART II
MARKETING YOUR 
PRODUCT"
Topics include determining effectiveness of your 
own organization mechanisms for evaluating 
your structure and service, marketing your ac
tivity to the campus community.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 
10 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
FACULTY LOUNGE, SKIBO*
%
Lunch will be served so please sign up in advance at the 
Skibo Information Desk
* Moved from GSIA Lounge 
Sponsored by the Department of Student Activities.

---------------------------------------------------

fflLRSDItyafternoonlyNCHEONFORWIS
. *r*ph.ci
