TARTAN
October 18,1977 Volume 78, Number 7 Carnegie-Mellon University Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213
Red tape stalls new dorm; 
could take month, longer
Before new construction permits were approved, the Hill site was bulldozed.
by A. J. Askin
According to a source in Zoning Admin
istrator James Browns office, approval for 
the CMU dorm may not come until late 
November, or possibly even later.
Although construction plans have 
passed the initial stages of public hearing, 
there are still several rolls of red tape left 
to go through. The next phase is 
discussion of the dormitory plans before 
the Planning Commission, October 25. 
Since the CMU housing project is listed on 
the agenda for discussion and not approval, 
another two weeks must pass before the
Ex-CIT student now Soviet leader
A former ClT student, 76 year-old 
Vasily Vasilyevich Kuznetsov, has been elected the First Vice President of the 
Soviet Union, official Soviet press releases 
announced October 7.
Kuznetsov took advanced studies in 
metallurgy from the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology as part of a two year sojourn 
in the United States.
Bom to a peasant family in the Russian 
town of Sofllovka, Kuznetsov went on to 
receive his secondary education in the 
Russian Revolution. Afterwards, he studied 
metallurgical engineering at the Leningrad 
Polytechnic Institute.
Following that, Kuznetsov went 
abroad, as his official biography states, 
to the United States in 1931, to study the
manufacture and use of alloysteels working 
at the Ford Motor Company plant outside 
Detroit, and studying at CIT. He returned 
to the U.S.S.R. in 1933.
Kuznetsov came into the edges of the 
Soviet power structure when Russia was 
attacked by Germany in 1941. Stalin had 
Kuznestov brought to the capital to put 
his skills in metallurgy to armaments.
From 1944 to 1953, the new vice pres
ident oversaw the Central Trade Union Or
ganization, the group which insures that 
state-decreed production quotas are met. 
This led to a position in Stalins powerful 
inner circle, in 1952, which was dissolved 
upon the leaders death in 1953.
Kuznetsov spent the next twenty-four 
years in diplomatic service. He first served
as Ambassador 
years later by a 
Foreign Minister 
The new vice 
the withdrawal 
Cuba in 1962, 
treaty in 1963,
to China, followed two 
long stint as a deputy to 
Andrei Gromyko, 
president negotiated both 
of Soviet missiles from 
and the nuclear test ban 
as deputy to Gromyko, 
continued on page 3
Planning Commission can approve the plans 
and send them to the City Council for a 
zoning approval.
At that point, after ordinances are 
drawn up, and reviewed by the law depart
ment, approval of the plans could be de
layed up to three more weeks, if the City 
Council decides to hold a zoning hearing 
on the plans. The time is needed in order 
to inform the public of the hearing which 
requires 15 day prior announcement in the 
newspaper.
After such time, the council can then 
approve the zoning ordinance, and send it 
to the mayor for final action. The mayor 
has ten days at that point to sign the ordi
nance into law. A rough estimation of the 
timetable puts the earliest approval date at 
Thanksgiving week. An approval of the 
plans at the October 25 Planning Commis
sion meeting could push the timetable up 
two weeks, however, such a possibility is 
slim
It was reported last week that the new 
housing, as planned, violates several set
back variances. That means the housing 
will be constructed closer to its borders 
than the law allows.
CMU refutes Caltech claim
WRCT Manager quits
by Sarah Diamond
Exactly one month after taking on the 
position of General Manager of WRCT, 
Amy Boyle has quit the job.
Boyles resignation, effective Thursday, 
October 13, resulted from the lack of co
operation she had been getting from some 
station personnel. According to Boyle, 
some of the DJs responded with open 
defiance to anything she had tried to do. 
She told the story of a staff member who 
was a smoking a cigarette in Studio B, the 
main boradcasting studio, where a sign 
from the Pittsburgh Fire Department pro
hibits smoking. The staff member refused 
to put out the cigarette, even when Boyle 
asked him to do so.
Boyle claims that it was such a general 
lack of cooperation, plus a lack of motiva
tion and foresight on the part of top many 
WRCT staffers, that finally led her to quit.
Boyles disillusionment with the WRCT 
staff focused mainly on the WRCT an
tenna. Presently it is located at the top of 
Skibo. Last year, President Cyert agreed 
with WRCT that moving the antenna to the 
top of Warner Hall would be a good idea, 
as that would increase the stations broad
cast range. Now the plan to move the an
tenna has the support of alumni, the un
official approval of Student Senate, which 
tunds WRCT, and Warner Hall officials. An 
RCA study done this past summer con
cluded that moving the antenna would not 
be difficult, and that the cost of laying the
cable underground from Skibo to Warner 
Hall would be about $15,000.
The only problem now, claims Boyle, is 
that the staff members are too lazy to do 
anything about the antenna.
Most people working at the station, she 
says, dont perceive the station as any
thing but an expensive toy, or a training 
station to get a job on the outside in radio. 
She called some people at the station selfcentered, egotistical, immature egomaniacs. 
They need a mother. But you cant tell
continued on page 2
by Belinda Quan
A few months ago, the Cal Tech student 
newspaper reported that CMU tried to 
buy the professors from its Social 
Science Department.
H & SS Dean Crecine says that there is 
no foundation for the story. According to 
him, last March or April, CMU approached 
a professor at Cal Tech and offered him the 
position of Department Head of the newly 
created Social Science Department. The 
professor expressed interest, so he was in
terviewed and invited here to give a semi
nar. Negotiations followed and he stated 
that he wanted to bring two of his col
leagues with him. After interviewing them, 
CMU decided to hire them also. A competi
tive salary offer was made to the three. But 
Cal Tech made a better counter-offer so 
they decided to stay there.
Since last Spring, CMU has been search
ing for professors for the Social Science
Department, which replaced the old Social 
Relations Department. It was created in 
part, because CMU lacked social scientists 
to support its education programs. The old 
department depended upon SUPA and 
GSIA for faculty and graduate student 
teachers. When those two departments 
decided to expand their graduate programs, 
they could no longer provide enough 
personnel to staff the undergraduate pro
gram of the Social Relations Department.
Dean Crecine is now Acting Head of 
the Social Science Department and Dr. 
Patrick Larky is the Associate Head. The 
continued on page 3inside
Heinz proposes tax break
Middle income families are being 
crushed by education costs. stated Sena
tor John Heinz (RPa.) who joined 42 of 
his fellow colleagues last month in propo
sing legislation intended to ease the finan
cial burden of education cpsts through 
tax credits.
Under the new measure, taxpayers 
would be allowed a credit equal to half the 
tuition they pay up to a maximum of 
$500 per student, to be deducted from the 
income taxes they owe. The bills principal 
sponsors are Sen. Bob Packwood (ROre.) 
and Sen. Daniel Moynihan (DN.Y.).
Upper income families can afford the 
tuition costs, while low income families 
can usually obtain financial aid, Heinz
said. That leaves middle income families 
with a cruel dilemmaeither denying their 
children the benefits of college, private or 
parochial high school and grade school 
education, or else cutting out real necessi
ties in the effort to scrimp by for the five, 
ten or fifteeen years of heavy tuition pay
ments.
The legislation which Heinz is co
sponsoring is designed to relieve some of 
the strain produced by spiraling tuition 
costs which threaten the hopes and dreams 
of millions of American families. All levels 
of education, including public, private, and 
parochial schools are covered by the bill. 
Any part-time or full-time student attenncontinued on page 3
news...
Gynecological services improve (pg. 2) 
SDC investigates lounge renovation (pg. 2) 
Biology SAC meets (pg. 3)entertainment...
Sculptor George Sfegal talks, (pg. 14) 
Fathers Dayis untypical comedy(pg. 13)
sports...
Tartan gridders continue streak-drop Johr 
Carroll, (pg. 20)
CMU booters topple W&J, 2-0. (pg.20)
folio...
Comics! (pg. 9)

---------------------------------------------------

page 2TARTANOctober 18, 1977
CMU improves gynecological services
by Belinda Quan
Gynecological services at CMU have 
been improved and expanded over the past 
four years.
Then, female students had to wait an 
avrape of three months to see an offcampus gynecologist. At that time, CMU 
only picked up part of the bill for those 
medical services. Now, the waiting time 
has been reduced to twofour weeks, as 
gynecological services have been added to 
the list of free medical care provided by 
thp. Health Office in More wood.
Dr. Lucille Koehler provides gynecology care at the CMU Health Office.
Dr. Lucille Koehler, gynecologist, 
provides routine check-ups for female 
students, Thursdays. These examinations 
include the Pap Test, gonorrhea testing, 
and pelvic examinations. The CMU Health 
Office participates in the Allegheny 
County Gonorrhea Screening Program, but 
since the test was first administered, no 
cases have been detected.
The pill is available upon request, but 
students are told about other options open 
to them, such as condoms and foam. Less 
than half the gynecological services pro
vided involve birth control, according to 
Dr. Koehler.
The doctor sees education as the most 
important function of her job. Many 
women are sophisticated today, [sexually], 
but we perform more of a service to 
[naive] girls who have led sheltered lives. 
We help them understand the mechanism 
of their body.
Women are encouraged to have exami
nations and especially the Pap Test annual
ly. They are also taught breast selfexamination by Dr. Koehler, who stresses 
the importance of such preventive mea
sures.
In cases of a gynecological emergency 
on a day other than Thursday, appoint
ments can be made through the Health 
Office to meet with Dr. Koehler im
mediately. The Health Office is open Mon
day through Friday, 8:305:00.
Octob ebr18,r 97Vl ucr1m1c,
continued from page 1
people that. Too many DJs, Boyle feels, 
are only interested in their own air-time, 
and arent willing to go out of their way to 
get the antenna moved. They cant see 
past their noses.
Boyle had hoped to get the station 
running smoothly and improve the image 
of the radio station. The station has a 
really, really pocr image on campus, 
Boyle lamented, and students are under the 
impression that WRCT is in trouble with 
the FCC, doing illegal things, [and broad 
casting] bad words late at night. Boyle 
scoffed at this last misunderstanding 
Theres nothing you cant say on the 
radio anymore. I think youre supposed tc 
let good taste guide you.
A sore point for Boyle is that students 
think WRCT isnt worth listening to. 
More people down at Pitt listen to WRCT 
than on campus. She said that she was
prepared to begin a massive publicity 
campaign, and that she had talked to 
Scotch n Soda about the possibility of 
them performing radio plays for the sta
tion.
Boyle doesnt have only negative things 
to say about the station: she believes that 
the station has somewhat improved so far 
this year. The DJs are better trained, she 
said, and can do transitions between songs 
and speak easier than they had in the past. 
Boyle explained that WRCTs problems are 
internal, organizational problems that 
dont show up on the airwaves.
Remembering back over the month she 
spent as General Manager, Boyle seemed 
bitter that she met with so much resistance 
and uncooperation. She doesnt like quit
ting things, she said, but she also doesnt 
like being placed in a position where she is 
given authority and then not allowed to
you? She concluded, Dont believe it. 
You gotta know everything or youre dead. 
Im not willing to do a half-assed job.
E-Tower Keys exchanged
Last week, the TARTAN reported that 
residents of E-Tower were being inconve
nienced by Morewoods new door-locking 
policy. Bill Dillon, Director of Auxiliary 
Services, was quoted as saying he would 
look into the situation. The situation was 
remedied in that E-Tower residents may 
now exchange B-Tower keys for E-Tower 
keys.
Because of the key exchange, it is 
necessary to lock stairwell entrances which 
had previously remained open.
E-Tower keys may be obtained in the 
Housing Office during the regular office 
hours.
????????????
The SDC space
by Stephanie Waite
Plans for renovation of the dorm lounge 
system was one of the topics discussed at 
the last SDC meeting held October 9.
John Muse, an RA in Morewood, is 
working with the architect who is going to 
re-design the lounges (the same architect 
who re-designed Scobell and the Tartan 
Grill). Muse explained to SDC the plans 
for the lounges. For the past ten years, 
the Housing Office has been paying from 
$50,000 to $75,000 a year on lounge 
equipment which they feel is worthless. 
Housing now wants a unified master plan 
for all lounges. This will involve a five year 
scale program and work will begin 
sometime after Christmas.
Work is progressing on the design phase 
of the project, and the builders are seeking 
student input as to what is wanted and 
needed in the lounges. Some questions the 
builders need answers to include: what do 
students do in the lounges, and what would 
they like to be able to do. They would 
also like to know any crazy, outlandish 
ideas students may have for lounge im.provement. Some ideas currently being 
tossed around include a shopping mall in 
Morewood, housing such establishments as 
a pizza parlor or a dry cleaners; a place to 
workout; and a library-type study space.
There may also be a design competition, 
open to the entire campus, to see who can 
design the best floor plans and murals for 
the lounges. Cash prizes would be offered 
in an effort to get students more involved 
with the lounge plans.
Any student with ideas on the lounges is 
urged to contact his or her SDC representa
tive.
Of the committee reports made at the 
meeting, the Fire and Safety committee 
reported meeting with Security on the 
topic of drawing up plans for emergency 
evacuation of the dorms. Security would 
like to know about the presence of any 
handicapped people in the dorms, so these 
people can be helped in case of an emer
gency. H'andicapped people in the dorms 
should contact Tim Roscoe in 136 Donner 
for this purpose.
Head Resident Corey Chase announced 
that there was still no word on when Welch 
Lounge Ayould be cleaned up. It has been 
reported that the school is suing the con
tractors who worked on Scobell, and that
rebates for students who planned to live 
continued on page 8
NEWS BRIEFS
Defaults hit
Defaults on federally insured student 
loans may soon be a thing of the past due 
to the efforts of HEWs Office of 
Education.
One measure taken by the Office of Ed
ucation is use of private agencies in colcollect on defaulted student loans. This is 
the first time such action has been taken 
by the Office of Education although they 
were granted the power by Congress in 
1976.
The Office of Education was instru
mental in changing the bankruptcy laws 
pertaining to student loans. Congress has 
passed a law, effective this past October 
1st, prohibiting bankruptcy on student 
loans until five years after graduation.
Walter Cathie, Director of Financial 
Aid, feels defaults are unfair to the major
ity of students. They are also unfair to 
other lenders as they make lenders to stu
dents privileged by the new bankruptcy 
laws. Cathie also feels that because stu
dents who default on their loan? now, they
may jeopardize the chances of students ob
taining loans in the future.
The default rate at Carnegie-Mellon is 
among the highest in Pennsylvania, though 
Cathie has no exact figure. As a result, 
CMU has not been a federally isured lender 
for the past four years.
Crimes 
reported
There have been a number of thefts on 
the CMU campus since the beginning of 
September.
Cash was stolen from-the mens locker 
room at the gym. Some cash, a calculator, 
and a watch, valued at $1000, was stolen in 
five thefts at Donner Hall. Students neglect 
usually contributed to the thievery. Doors 
were left unlocked when rooms were 
unattended, and also while students were 
asleep inside.
Oct. 8, a thief walked into two different 
rooms in Morewood between 1 and 2 AM, 
taking three purses. The rooms were left 
nnlocked -while the gnis were asleep inside..
In all cases, when the girls awoke, the thief 
pretended to be looking for someones 
room. After the incident, the girls noticed 
that their purses were missing. The purses 
were later found in the kitchen, minus the 
cash inside.
To avoid such needless thefts, the Secur
ity Office urges students to lock their 
rooms when unattended and when occu
pants are asleep. Unauthorized indivi
duals should be reported to Security.
UK plans day
October 24, 1977 has been proclaimed 
United Nations Day by President Jimmy 
Carter. The United Nations Day Celebra
tion was instituted to publicize the func
tions and activities of the U.N. in hopes of 
obtaining the financial support of U.S. 
citizens.
The local Pittsburgh Committee for 
U.N. promotion is primarily seeking 
support for two U.N. organizations: 
UNICEF, which is geared to helping chil
dren: and the United Nations Association
of the U.S.A., which is a group of citizens 
who encourage support of the U.N.
The local committee is currently solici
ting members of the engineering, medical, 
legal and educational p "*fessions. Faculty 
and students of Pittsbui6n college cam
puses are encouraged to take an active 
role in supporting the U.N., for it plays an 
integral part in seeking to establish world 
peace.
Scheduled activities for United Nations 
Day will be annouced by local media.
Corrections
Last weeks TARTAN mistakenly called 
Robert Anderregg the Director of Housing. 
Mr. Anderregg is the Campus Coordinator 
of Safety and Security.
In the SDC space October 11, it was 
mistakenly implied that Stuart Friedman 
was involved in the theft of the Henderson 
television. We would like to apologize to 
hip\-fqr any inconvejiie/ices. *     >

---------------------------------------------------

October 18, 1977TARTANpage 3
r
????????????
0Senate murmurs
by Linda Deak
Dave Roussos presided over a very ram
bunctious group of senators during the 
October 12 meeting of Student Senate. 
The acquiring of four new senators sparked 
Senate to loud discussion on the proposal
1 to move Spring Carnival to the weekend of 
April 18, approval of a baseball club, and 
an investigation on the possibility of Auxil
iary Services absorbing the additional cost 
of Centrex for the clubs which now have 
phones.
Steve Belanich announced that UFO 
does not approve of the carnival date as 
set by Senate two weeks ago. Senate had 
jl originally changed the Carnival date from 
the weekend of the 29th to the Weekend 
of April 13 due to a conflict with the 
religious holiday of Passover. UFO felt that 
the eleven days between the end of Spring 
Break and the first day of Carnival was not 
enough time to prepare for booth and bug
gy. The weekend of the 28th was also fa
voured because buggy would not conflict 
^ with the Phipps flower show. However, 
after consulting the calendar, Belanich no
ticed that the Passover holiday extends in
to the weekend of the 28th. Senate voted 
against changing their original proposal on 
the grounds that the later weekend was 
still conflicting with the religious holiday, 
in addition to being the last weekend be
fore finals.
During the Rules Committee report, 
Ken Meinert motioned that Senate recog
nize and support the CMU baseball club. 
Senate questioned the length of time the 
club had been in existence, who they 
would be playing, and if the club had at
tempted to become a varsity team. Base
ball club President, Bob McNall, informed 
the group that the 19 member club had 
petitioned the Athletic department but 
continued on page 4
New department organizes staff
continued from page 1
department they are now organizing will 
differ from the traditional social science 
departments because it is interdisciplinary. 
The core curriculum will include courses in 
problem analysis, theoretical perspective, 
structure and functions of social insti
tutions, and processes in social institu
tions. The social science program will 
combine courses from political science, 
political economy, sociology, and public 
affairs. Students can major in any of the 
four areas. Each student will also be re
quired to take Structure and Function in 
American Government, Organizational De
cision Making, Social Analysis, and any 
H & SS required curriculum.
According to Dr. Larky, The curri
culum for majors is rigorous, presenting 
an intellectual challenge to students on a 
par with better currculums in engineering, 
physical sciences, computer science and 
mathematics.
The Social Science Department now has
four professors: Dr. Larky, Dr. Alan 
Anderson, Dr. Lee Sproull, and Dr. Alice 
Young. It still needs a department head 
and as many as eight more full-time faculty 
members. Several other faculty members 
will be hired for joint appointments with
GSIA, SUPA, and the Engineering and 
Public Policy department. The department 
is looking for teachers, with strong interdis
ciplinary backgrounds in education and 
research.
Soviet leader attended CMU
continued from page 1
Brezhnev sent Kuznestov to the Disident, reformist Praque of 1968 as his re
presentative to block the Praque Spring. 
Kuznetsov continued to gain party con
fidence, as demonstrateu in 1971. In that 
year Kuznetsov was given the highest civlian award in the U.S.S.R. The Partys 
confidence in him climaxed with the recent 
promotion.
Official press releases place little impor
tance on the promotion. According to the 
NEW YORK TIMES, Kuznetsov is only 
listed seventeenth on a new list of officials 
published. His name appears after Grom
ykos and that of the KGB director. PressBiology SAC meets
More than 30 students attended a 
meeting, October 11, for Biological 
Science students. The purpose of the 
meeting was to organize and define a 
role for the Student Advisory Committee 
(SAC) of the troubled MIS Department. 
MIS is suffering from both a high student 
transfer rate and an understaffed faculty 
Many problems were aired including 
both those that may be solved within 
the department and those that perhaps 
must be solved by the university admin
istration. The most significant item dis
cussed was the underlying reasons why 
a high percentage of students elect to 
transfer out of the department before 
the junior year. Also expressed was the
students desire to be consulted in the 
search for 3 new Biological Science 
faculty members and the new depart
ment chairman.
Since the department is small at present, 
it was decided that all Biological Science 
majors and interested freshman be on 
the full committee, and two or three 
elected representatives from each class 
will form the executive committee. 
Those representatives will be elected 
today, and the first executive com
mittee meeting is tomorrow, October 19, 
at 7 30, in room 33, Skibo. At that 
meeting, further organizational matters 
will be handled and a meeting date for 
the entire SAC will be set.
releases barely mention his appointment.
The first vice presidential position is 
one newly created in the Soviet constitu
tion adopted recently. Since Kuznetsov 
first vice president is the only non-voting 
member of the powerful Communist Party 
instrument, the Politburo, it is expected 
that most of his power will be ceremonial, 
receiving heads of state and the like.
Tax reforms
continued from page 1
ing an elementary or secondary school, 
vocational or business school, or college 
which meets basic standards of accredita
tion is eligible under the credit proposal.
According to the American Association 
of State Colleges and Universities, escala
ting education costs have resulted in a 
20% drop in the number of lower and 
middle income students participating in 
higher education over the past five years.
In cases where the credit is greater than 
an individuals tax liability, the legislation 
would provide a cash refund equal to the 
difference.
If enacted, the measure would become 
effective for terms beginning January 1, 
1980.
President Cyert, disgusted by the sight 
of orange peels outside of Warner Hall, 
hopes that litterers will notice a difference 
in shape between a trash receptacle and 
Warner Hall.
FLORENCE
MADRID
STRASBOURG
AMSTERDAM
LONDON
STUDY ABROAD WITH SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY
Spring Semester Programs
Italian Language and Literature, History Fine Arts, Humanities, Political 
Science, Social Science
Spanish Language and Literature, Public Communications, Fine Arts, 
History, Political Science, Anthropology, Social Science, Business/Man
agement, Education, Philosophy , Sociology, Theology
French, Language and Literature, German Language, History, Fine Arts, 
Religion, Political Science, Social Science
Dutch Language and Culture, Fine Arts, History, Social Science, 
Economics, Social Work, Human Development, Anthropology
English, History, Fine Arts, Political Science, Television and Radio, Inter
national Communications and Public Affairs Reporting, Drama, Art 
History, Studio Arts
 Apply Now
 Financial Aid Available
 No Language Background Necessary
 Cost is comparable to a semester on Syracuse University's Campus
Po r further Information and application:Syracuse University
Division of International Programs Abroad
335 Comstock Avenue
Syracuse, New York 13210 (315) 423-3471

---------------------------------------------------

page 4TARTANOctober 18 1977
Play on!Scotch 'n' Soda reorganizes, revitalizes
by Brian Byrnes
This year Scotch V Soda, CMUs 
student-run theater group for non-Drama 
majors, is trying enthusiastically to im
prove and expand the productions it 
sponsors, and to coordinate work within 
its own ranks into specialized commit
tees.
At the October 8 S n S meeting 
President Matt Swiegart and Publicity 
Manager Jeff Harp established the frame
work of the organization. Any work
that has to be done will be separated into 
four committees-technical or tech, 
publicity, business, and acting and direct
ing. The last will not be rigidly structured 
tured committee, as no one person will be 
in complete command. Instead, it will re
semble a pool where the talents of the 
actors and directors can be drawn upon 
whenever needed.
The tech committee will be divided 
into sub-committees, each having its own 
special function in production. These 
sub-committeescostumes and make-up.
sets and props, and lighting and sound 
will each act as separate entities under 
the supervision of the tech committee 
chairperson, who in turn is responsible to 
the President and the Executive Board. 
The same follows for the publicity com
mittee, whose functions are design, copy, 
and release of publicity on and off campus. 
The business committees functions are to 
keep records of funds and to plan fund
raising events, the first of which was a car 
wash that was rained-out. October 1.
The board of S n S has been expanded
Senate to fill remaining vacancies
continued from page 3 
they had been refused financial assistance. 
He added that the baseball club would 
hopefully be able to play varsity teams 
within the PAC, but that they could always 
play area opponents. McNall commented, 
We were organized as a group last spring, 
but never played an official league game. 
By being recognized and supported, we 
hope to get more people interested in 
baseball.
The Tech Radio Club requested an ad
ditional $97.60 to cover the expense of in
mailbox at the Skibo Information Desk or 
Theta Xi.
After a debate on when the second 
week in November ends, Senate marked 
November 16, 17 as dates of the general 
Student Senate election. The advertisement 
below explains the procedure for entering 
the November election.
Senate will meet again on Oct 19, for 
another very interesting session of debate 
and discussion. Join them in the Wire re tt 
Room at 6:00.
Senate still encourages those in the con
stituencies of GSIA, SUP A or CFA, who 
are interested in becoming candidates for 
the November elections, to present their 
petitions early to fill the three remaining 
seats. The two to three week period until 
the election would be a good time to learn 
how Senate operates and to become ac
quainted with the members of Senate. Pe
titions can be obtained at the Skibo In
formation Desk and returned to Ken Meinert, c/o the Information Desk.
to seven members with the addition of 
another vice-president and secretary to 
the existing offices of President, Vice 
President, Secretary, Business Manager, 
and Publicity Manager. The addition 
was made due to the interest of the 
members running for the offices. Instead 
of denying the interests of one person, 
Swiegart suggested that both people 
who ran for each office should be named 
co-officers. The membership agreed with 
him.
Swiegart said that this kind of interest 
and enthusiasm is needed to expand the 
number and kinds of productions S V S 
hopes to sponsor. We would like to have 
a puppet show, a variety show, and a 
radio show. S n S needs more than just 
actors.- We need designers, we need 
engineers, we need artists, we need writers; 
we need anyone else interested in theater 
to handle all other aspects of production.
The main production of the year is 
the Spring Musical, which is an original 
student work performed during Spring 
Carnival. In preparation for the spring, 
there will be workshops on all aspects 
continued on page 5
stalling a Centrex phone. Tire radio club ***************************** **?*? ***** ??????*
had been allocated $90, for such purposes, 
but Senate realized that the additional 
funding would be necessary, as all clubs 
will be required to install a Centrex line in 
the near future. In reference to Centrex, 
Meinert suggested that the Finance Com
mittee investigate the possibility of Auxil
iary Services compensating for the cost of 
Centrex for clubs with phones.
Senate enlisted the services of four new 
senators who will serve until the 77 Nov
ember elections. Following constitutional 
procedure, each of the senators vying for 
seats presented their petition to the Rules 
Committee and briefly gave Senate an in
dication of why they were interested in 
the organization. Petitions were presented 
by Chris Russell (junior, EE), and Jeff 
Otte (sophomore, ChE) to fill one vacant 
seat in CIT. Otte withdrew his petition, 
and Senate unanimously welcomed Russell. 
The MIS opening was challenged by Elliot
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
DONT JOG,... RUN FOR STUDENT SENATE!
Petitions are available for the upcoming election.
Like handling money? . ...  . , ,
Be one of the prestigious 21 people responsible for appropriating 
over $110,000.
O c
Ohlberg (junior, Biology) and Jamie Se- ^ 
guino (junior, Math). Ohlberg was chosen ^ 
to represent MIS. Chris Deveau (freshman, ^ 
Drama) and Donna Griffin (sophomore, ^ 
Design) claimed two of the three vacant ^ 
seats in CFA. Mark Collins (freshman, ^ 
Writing) is the new Senator in H&SS, ob- ^ 
taining the vote over Cathrine Fischer. ^
1m .*
Roussos welcomed the new senators to the 
main table, and encouraged those who 
were not voted in by petition to run in the 
November election, when additional seats 
will be open in all colleges.
John Lubon is still searching desperately 
for a Spring Carnival Chairperson. Any 
slightly masochistic student who wants to 
bear the responsibilities of organizing a suc
cessful Spring Carnival should submit his 
name to Lubon. He can be reached via his
TECHNOLOGY AND 
POLICY PROGRAM AT MIT
The Mossochusetts Institute of Technology is 
now offering a Matter of Science Program in 
Technology and Policy. This program is 
designed for persons wanting to participate in 
leading the development, use and control of 
technology and its products. Students apply 
systems approaches to such problems as the 
control of automotive emissions, energy con
servation policy, the use of automation in 
manufacturing, and the life-cycle design of 
goods. The program may be particularly ap
propriate for professionals with practical ex
perience. For information write to
Prof. Richard de Neufville 
School off Engineering 
Room 1-138. MIT 
Cambridge, Mass. 02139
FOLLOW THESE INSTRUCTIONS:
1) Obtain petition after October 1 9 at the Skibo information desk.
2) Petitions must be signed by 25 full-time students of any 
college. Students signing petitions are reminded to list address 
and social security number. Students may sign as many 
petitions as there are colleges, but only sign 1 petition per 
college.
3) Return petitions to the senate mail box at Skibo information 
desk by November 3.
SEATS ARE AVAILABLE IN ALL COLLEGES.
For more information: call Ken Meinert 682-9455.
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*

---------------------------------------------------

October 18, 1977TARTANpage 5
S 'n' S plans reorganization
continued from page 4
of production. The first of these work
shops is the Fall Acting Workshop, which 
features J.J. Cole as the guest speaker. 
The first production of the year will
be three original one-act plays written Everyone is invited t0 is meetingi 
by CMU students. Jacqueline Susann (Ume p,ace ^ be p0Ste(J at the
to S n S.
An open Board meeting will be held 
on October 18 (today) for directors of 
the Fall Workshop productions and for 
anyone interested in any part of S n S. 
is
Died Over the Weekend by David 
Sheward, Right Place, Wrong Time 
by Jim Waldfogle, and Stormy Nights 
by Swiegart will be presented to the 
public, November 17 at 8 00 PM in the
board near the Skibo Information Desk)
SDC space
continued from page 2
Wherret Room. These plays will not in these rooms are possible, 
boast elaborate sets or props, for they are Allocations of money were made to 
produced with the intent of giving writers Publicity Committee for Film Cards and 
exposure. According to the boisterous Homecoming Posters. Money was also alSwiegart, The main purpose of Scotch^ located to the Renovations Committee to 
n Soda is to sponsor original student repair TV antennas in Morewood and 
works. We will give any script serious Donner, replace ping-pong paddles in Moreconsideration for production, and we wood, and to hire an electrical engineer to 
encourage students to submit their works check the television alarm systems.
ONEG SHABBAT
REFRESHMENTS
Friday October 21 8:30 p.m.
At David Kaufman's
Morewood E-l 05 (blue doors, facing 
Forbes, 2nd from left)
Come meet some new people!
For more information, call 
B nai B rith Hillel, 621-8875
I
I
Cutout for a weekend
*
per day---------
I^Plus 150 per mileBe
If the books, lectures or dorm walls are getting to you ... its time 
to escape. At National Car Rental you can rent an Oldsmobile 
Cutlass or similar-size car at this low rate and escape in style. 
So make plans to head for the country, the mountains or wherever 
pastures are greener. Make your reservation with 
National today.
We feature GM cars.
4621 FORBES AVENUE 682-1444
National Car Rental
?You pay for gas and return car to renting city. Rate available Friday noon to 
Monday noon. Non-discountable rate subject to change without notice.
1
I
I
I
I
I
I
I

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
ft
I
I
I
THANK GOD IT'S FRIDAY DANCE
9:30 - 12:30
OCTOBER 21st
SKIBO BALLROOM
WITH
CROSSFIRE

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN
The TARTAN
This week, let's talk about the TARTAN.
More than just a few people seem confused about what 
the TARTAN is, what it should do, and whom it should 
serve. We hope to dear up those confusions now.
The TARTAN is, first, a newspaper. It is an instrument 
to inform, entertain, and enlighten our readers. No one has 
yet come up with a conclusive definition of news and we 
cant hope to do so here. Joseph Pulitzer once said that 
news stories should be "original, distinctive, dramatic, ro
mantic, thrilling, unique, curious, quaint, humorous, odd 
and apt-to-be-talked-about. " William Randolph Hearst said 
news is uanything that makes a reader say, Gee, whiz!  
We here at the TARTAN tend to take a more conserva
tive, less spectacular approach. Our working definition of 
news is "what the readers want to know, what they should 
know, and what they need to know in order to cope suc
cessfully with their surroundings." We focus the TARTAN, 
obviously, on the CMU campus.
Too often, we are kept from being as thorough as we 
would like to be because we must spend time on other 
things, like school work. Our difficulties are compounded 
because we are a weekly paper, and because of printing 
deadlines, our news is sometimes, unfortunately, less than 
fresh. (Not stale, mind you, just a bit crusty around the 
corners.) We use our best judgment in deciding what sto
ries go into each TARTAN.
The TARTAN should do much the same as any other 
newspaper should do: report the news as completely and 
objectively as it can, provide a place for community 
members to announce meetings, things of interest, etc., and 
offer its pages as a forum for those who wish to express 
their opinions on some matter of concern to the general 
public.
In recent years, the reporter, and so, his newspaper, has 
taken on a new rolethat of an investigative reporter. PostWatergate investigative reporting differs from its pre-Water
gate counterpart in that now, reporters are encouraged to 
seek out wrongdoings and investigate them, where before, 
reporters were only investigating problems revealed by oth
ers. At the TARTAN, we are taking on this new role with 
cautious enthusiasm. Last year, when it was discovered that 
the CMU cafeterias had violated several Pittsburgh Health 
Department regulations, a TARTAN reporter called up the 
Health Department to find out what they were. Food Ser
vices was angry, but the TARTAN stood by its story and 
offered no apology.
This year, when the News Editor checked out a rumor 
concerning the new dorm by calling the City of Pittsburgh 
Housing Authority, Bill Dillons secretary seemed annoyed. 
But we stand by our right to have done so, because we be
lieve we were merely doing our job: seeking out informa
tion that the public deserved to know.
These incidents lead to the next question: who do we 
serve? We serve our readers, certainly. But really, the TAR
TAN, like all newspapers, answers to a higher authority 
higher than Student Senate, from whom we get our funds, 
higher than the CMU Housing Office, and even higher than 
the CMU Board of Trustees. We must answer to the history
of the American newspaper and the tradition of free speech.
Without becoming melodramatic, let us say that the 
TARTAN staff knows its responsibility: it has to be ethi
cal, truthful, and accurate. We respect the place a newspa
per holds in American life, and we dont wish to abuse that 
position. And we believe we have not in the two incidents 
cited above.
Early this year, a letter to the editor questioned the TA RTANs editorial policy for running an Educational Systems 
ad one week after publishing an article about plagiarism. Af
ter much thought, we have decided to continue running the 
ad. We do not pretend to know what is best for our readers, 
nor do we wish to get rid of an ad because it conflicts with 
personal morals. This smacks of censorship. We can only 
hope that each reader is intelligent enough to act in the way 
he or she believes is right.
It is a two-way street. We are obligated to our readers, 
but our readers must also bring to the newspaper their own 
morals, ethics, intelligence, and common sense.
Sherry Siegel 
Editor-in-Chief
Letters
Cyert's Views Criticized 
PLO
Editor:
This letter is a reply to the in
terview of President Cyert about 
the Middle East question pub
lished in the TARTAN issue of 
October 11, 1977. I would simply 
like to make it known that the 
rather extreme opinion expressed 
in this interview is not shared by 
everyone at CMU.
It is true that the PLO has 
not yet accepted the U.N. resol
ution number 242 by which it 
would officially recognize the 
state of Israel. It is also true on 
the other hand, that Israel has 
never applied the U.N. resolutions 
of November 1947 and December 
1948 in which the Palestinians 
were acknowledged the right to 
have their own state and which 
were the conditions of the admis
sion of Israel to the U.N. in May 
1949.
Zionist settlements on the Jor
dan west bank are attempts to 
colonize a territory conquered by 
force. Not only is this form of ex
pansionism questionable but it 
may lead to further pretentions. 
Let us remember the motto of the 
Likud party that recently came to 
power in Israel: The Jordan has 
two banks, the west bank is ours 
and so is the other one.
According to President Cyert, 
one reason that the U.S. should 
support Israel against the Arabs is 
that Israel is a democratic state. 
Can one call a state democratic 
when it annexes by force terri
tories and their populations, re
fuses self-determination to the 
said populations and furthermore, 
treats them as second class citi
zens?
The most astonishing conten
tion of President Cyert is that the 
aspiration for a homeland is not 
a genuine feeling among Palestin
ians but only propaganda ffom a 
small band of PLO members. 
If so, why is it that the inha
bitants of the occupied territories
have never been granted the right 
by Israel to vote on the issue? 
Why is it that the vast majority 
of the mayors of the west bank 
elected in the local elections of
1976 are partisans of the PLO? 
How did the PLO produce such 
an impact that it is now recogni
zed by almost all the governments 
of the world, without any popular 
support?
It is unfortunately true that 
many Arabs have some hatred to
wards Israel. The least one must 
admit however, is that this hate is 
widely reciprocated. It is regret
table that so much hate and vio
lence has been necessary to get to 
the present point, but Mr. Begin 
and many other present Israeli 
leaders who were active terrorists 
in the 1940s should know as well 
as the PLO that one does not 
always have the choice of wea
pons.
The only point on which I 
would agree with Pres. Cyerts 
is the comparison between Israels 
expansionism and the American
TARTAN
Volume 78October 18, 1977Number 7
Editor-In-Chief: 
Managing Editor: 
Business Editor: 
News Editor: 
Entertainment Editor: 
Folio Editor: 
Sports Editor: 
Photography Editor:
Sherry Siegel 
Brenda Reed 
Ellen Silverman 
Saul Carliner 
Casey Childs 
Jeffrey Zaslow 
Tom Binnie 
V.R.V. Ramanan
Assistant to the News Editor: Linda Deak
Photography staff; Brian Batchelder, Mike Bergman, Skip Brazelton, John Fong, Greg
Lebowitz, George Lecomte, Ken Ream, Steve Salagaller, Mark Segal
Copyright 1977 by the Carnegie-Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit or 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Govern
ment of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; (412) 578- 
2000 ext. 2111 or 2112. Business Offices: Skibo 52; (412) 578-2111.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

---------------------------------------------------

October 18, 1977-rTARTANpage 7
more Letters
expansion to the West Coast of 
the last century. One difference 
however, is that the Palestinians 
are a force that Israel has not been 
able to physically control. It is 
certainly not by ignoring this 
force, as President Cyert suggests, 
against the opinion of the rest of 
the world (including now the 
American government) that a sol
ution to the problem can be 
reached.
Gilles Lafue 
SUPA
Cyert's Views Criticized 
Zionism
Editor:
The article on Pres. Cyerts 
visit to Israel that appeared 
in the 10/11 issue of TARTAN 
was quite interesting. On the 
surface, one would expect more 
intelligent, or rather better in
formed, statements concerning 
the Mid-East situation. But upon 
further consideration, noting that 
the entire trip was paid for 
by Israel and the National Jewish 
Foundation, it is not surprising 
that Cyert should play the role 
of a sychophant of Zionism.
Such a loaded statement as 
The Palestinian (sic) Liberation 
Organization has sworn to de
stroy Israel. could easily lead 
one to believe that the PLO, 
or more accurately the Rejectionist Front, have as a goal 
the extermination of the Jews 
in Israel, or at least, driving 
them jnto .tfie^eV,!. Urijuentfoned 
is the fact that since the 1967 
war, before which the modernday Palestinian movement did 
not exist, the unifying goal 
of the Palestinian movement has 
been the replacement of the 
Zionist state of Israel with a 
secular state. This is what is meant 
by destroying Israel.
Concerning the extension  of 
Israels borders from pre-1967, 
Cyert defended this expansionism 
by the incisive argument of 
manifest destiny. (It is sus
pected that the term white 
mans burden would appear 
should he visit Rhodesia or 
South Africa.) Of course this 
expansionism is justified since 
Israel is a democracy surrounded 
by a series of totalitarian govern
ments. One must be somewhat 
curious as to his definition of 
democracy. Would a democracy 
forbid a part of its citizenry 
from dwelling, opening a bus
iness, or seeking employment 
on lands constituting over 50% 
of the country? Would a dem
ocracy pursue a policy of cleans
ing the country of. a part of 
its citizenry? Yet this is Zionism.
Non-Jewish, that is those without 
a sufficiently Jewish ancestry, 
citizens of Israel are burdened 
with a system of apartheid that 
is in some ways harsher than 
that of South Africa. (In South 
Africa, at least there are lands 
set aside for Blacks which the 
White population may not pur
chase.) Or does Pres. Cyert 
measure the extent of dem
ocracy in a country by its friend
liness to U.S. policy and in
vestments?
Finally, Cyerts contention 
that the desire for a Palestinian 
homeland is only pushed by 
a small band of PLO members 
must be tempered by reality. 
It is conceded that the Arabic 
press in Israel is quiet on the 
homeland issue, however mem
ories of levelled villages and 
massacred populations, combined 
with the betrayals of the Pal
estinian movement by the Arab 
states, have taught the Pales
tinians living in Israel and the 
occupied territories what things 
may be safely uttered in public. 
But to conclude that the Pal
estinians do not want a homeland, 
that they are content to exist un
der Zionist rule, is a typically pa
tronizing attitude.
Rick Edahl 
David Doremus
Ben Harry Booed
Editor:
I have always tended to doubt 
the credibility of the Folio 
section of the TARTAN, but 
after reading the article entitled 
Ben Harrys World Series Pre
diction, I am sure that Folio 
is fiction from Fantasyland.
Mr. Harry, your exalted oddsmaker, blatantly states a bold
faced lie in the first paragraph 
by saying Philadelphia is the 
best team in baseball, no ques
tions about it. The Phillies 
werent even the best team 
in the National League East. 
They only won the divisional 
title because of some key in
juries to the Pittsburgh Pirates 
and a miracle from above.
Next, Mr. Harry predicts the
totally ridiculous idea of the 
Phillies playing in the World 
Series. In the long history of 
the Series, which dates back 
to 1903, Philadelphia has ap
peared in only two fall classics. 
No Carnegie-Mellon student, with 
the possible exception of a 
few Ph.D. candidates was even 
bom the last time the Phils 
were in the Series.
Then to cap the false pre
dictions, Mr. Harry boldly says 
that Philadelphia will win the 
Series. The only time that the 
Phils ever won a World Series 
game was back in 1915, which 
was before any CMU professor 
was born.
All this adds up to the fact 
that the Philadelphia Phillies are 
STILL the only pre-expansion 
team never to win a World Series.
Bob Firm
West Virginia: Hunter Heaven 
Editor:
Recently there have been com
plaints about the way Pennsyl
vanians drive. Those parties com
plaining should just be glad 
they arent from my home state 
of West Virginia. Being from West 
Virginia, I am often considered a 
hick, but Im not. I wear shoes 
fairly often and my house even 
has electricity and running water. 
Blit nevertheless some people still 
dont think much of my opinions. 
Yet I feel obliged to enlighten 
others to the way things are done 
in my state. . <
Right now the season is open 
on pedestrians in West Virginia. 
The hunting season is open from
August 30 until May 30 every 
year. If a pedestrian is taken out 
of season, there is of course a fine 
of $100.00. I was surprised when 
I saw a Pennsylvanian driver act
ually swerve AWAY from a pedes
trian! Many times in my home 
state, Ive seen hunters swerve 
their vehicles to bag a pedestrian, 
only to have the pedestrian take 
cover behind a nearby wall or 
telephone pole. Being poor hunt
ers, their vehicles usually sustain 
major damage when they are un
able to avoid that wall or pole.
Why last year, in only my sec
ond year of hunting, I bagged the 
statess limit of seven pedestrians 
per season. My best one was a 
nice 185 pound buck taken when 
I spotted him coming down the 
steps of his front porch. I did a 
perfect ninety degree turn and 
went up a small seven foot em
bankment, through a wooden 
fence and caught the pedestrian 
just as it hit the sidewalk. This 
was my best kill of the season 
since I had to bag the pedestrian 
completely off the roadway and 
in his own front yard. Of course 
my many kills are due to expert 
equipment and ability. On all 
my kills I used a four-wheel 
drive International Scout equip
ped with three inch spikes on 
both the front and rear fenders.
So next time you are angry and 
want to release those pent-up 
feelings, just drive to West 
Virginia and bag a pedestrian or 
two. Of course make sure you 
pick up a hunting license which 
costs $2.00 and can be purchased 
at any bar or tavern. Then you 
are ready. Happy hunting!
One hick of a Hunter
ANNOUNCEMENTS
general
Confidential Services including pregnancy
and V.D. testing, all methods of contra
ception and counseling are available 
throughout western Pennsylvania without 
restriction on age or ability to pay. For re
ferral to a clinic near you, call The Family 
Planning Council of Western Pennsylvania 
toll free at (800) 242-2532.
PREMIERE OPENS PITTSBURGH
OPERA 39th SEASON-The sparkling 
witty opera Falstaff by Giuseppe Verdi will 
be presented by the Pittsburgh Opera for 
the first time on October 27 and 29 at 
Heinz Hall. Both performances begin at 
8:00 PM.
Performances of the Pittsburgh Opera 
are supported by grants from the National 
Endowment for the Arts in Washington, 
D.C., a federal agency and the Common
wealth of Pennsylvania Council on the 
Arts. Reserve your tickets by calling the 
opera office at 281-0912.
There will be a meeting for all clerks of
Entropy on Wednesday, October 19, in 
Room 11 of Skibo. The meeting will begin 
at 9 45 PM. All Entropy staff members 
are requested to attend.
An invitationThe C.M.U. Bookstore cor
dially invites the faculty members of Car
negie Mellon Un;versity to visit The Col
lege Marketing Group Mobile Book Ex
hibit FridayOctober 28, 1977, 10'00- 
3:00 parked at Skibo parking lot. Over 
3000 new titles from 275 publishers. 
Freshman through Graduate-texts and 
spppienmta.., ,..Trrirr-r. ----------------;___
Come to an Oneg Shabbat, Friday, Octo
ber 21, 8:30 PM in Morewood E-105. Re
freshments, informal, come meet some new 
people.
Petitions for Student Senate seats for the
November 17 & 18 election will be avail
able Thursday October 20 at the Skibo 
Information Desk.
The Point Park College Minority Affairs
Center will sponsor a Dance-a-thon for 
the benefit of the Sickle Cell Anemia 
Foundation on Friday, October 14 in the 
third floor ballroom of Lawrence Hall.
Contestants, backed by pledges, will 
dance from 8 PM until 3 AM. Those com
pleting the seven hour Dance-a-thon will 
be eligible for a $50 prize.
For information, call 391-4100, ext. 
326, 658 or 691.
American Youth Hostels, Inc.-As college
classes resume at schools across the United 
States, thousands of your fellow students 
have returned from summer hosteling trips 
throughout Europe and portions of the 
United States.
For information about winter hosteling 
activitiescontact your nearest metropoli
tan AYH Council or write to Bob Johnson, 
AYH Field Director, National Headquar
ters, Delaplane, Virginia 22050-ask for the 
USA Hostel "Ski List.
OAKLAND CHILDREN'S CENTER PUMP
KIN SALEThe Oakland Children's Center 
Annual Pumpkin Sale is planned for Thurs
day, October 20 and Friday, October 21. 
The sale will include pumpkins, apple 
cider, and a variety of baked goods. The 
Oakland Children's Center is located on the 
corner of Fifth and Beliefield. For more 
information call 682-2751.
Special Sabbath Dinner ($2.00) will be
held on Friday, Oct. 21 at B'nai B'rith 
Hillel, 315 S. Bellefield Avenue. For 
reservations, please call, 621-8875 
Carnegie-Mellon, Career Perspectives: Mr.
Charles A. Bradford, Vice President of 
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc.' 
(New York) will discuss steel's future and 
what it means to you in a career perspec
tives program on Wednesday, October 26,
1977 at 12:00 noon in the Wherrett Room 
of Skibo. All CMU students and faculty 
are invited to attend. Any student consid
ering a career in the Steel Industry is es
pecially encouraged to attend.
Forbes Street Gallery Craft & Printmaking
show now through Oct. 23. Also in the 
"Gallery Plus" is an exhibit by University 
Graphics. Hours: Tuesday-Sunday 12-4
PM, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday 7-9 
PM. All invited! (Watch for our next
show!)
Monday, October 17The Tokyo String
Quartet, at 8:30 PM in Carnegie Music 
Hall, Oakland.
WANTED: The return of a vinyl brief
case with zip, books, notebook, umbrella, 
checkbook, legal papers, stainless scale, 
pens and a refill pencil. Missing at 3:00 
PM on Tuesday, October 11. Please 
return it to the Bookstore, no questions 
will be asked.
The University of Pittsburgh will hold
its seventh jazz seminar and concert, 
October 20-22.
Throughout the three-days, invited jazz 
musicians and Pittsburgh-based jazz people 
will discuss and/or perform in a series of 
workshop sessions to be held in the lower
lounge of Pitt's Student Union. These 
session? culminate Saturday night at 8 PM 
in a Carnegie Hall concert featuring the 
workshop leaders.
The seminar will be directed by Nathan 
Davis, professional jazz musician, associate 
professor of music, and coordinator of 
Pitt's Jazz Studies Program. Featured ar
tists will include: Kenny Clarke, drums;
Mike Longo, piano; Abraham Laboriel, 
bass; Woody Shaw, brass; Dexter Gordon, 
reeds; Nathan Davis, reeds; Terri Pollard, 
vibes.
George Butler, vice president of Colum
bia Records will be on hand to discuss 
"The History and Evolution of the Music 
Industry."
On Friday night, Oct. 21, the seminar 
will have the soothing sounds of Bobbie 
and Bobby Fulton and the Gospel Chords.
The lecture sessions are free and open to 
the public.. Saturday evening's concert will 
have an advance admission of $2 with a 
Pitt I.D.; all others $5. Tickets are on sale 
at the Pitt Student Union Ticket Office.
A figure skating class taught by former
Olympic competitor Jo Jo Starbuck is 
among the adult non-credit courses being 
offered by Point Park College this fall. Ten 
courses, most beginning the week of 
October 31, cover a variety of topics, 
including financial planning, UFO's and 
mixology. For more information, contact: 
The Department of Part-Time Studies, 
Point Park College, Wood Street, Pitts
burgh, 15222 or call 391-4100.
John P. Crecine, Dean of the College of
Humanities & Social Sciences will have 
open office hours for students, Tuesdays 
from 1:30 to 5:00.

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOI INCEMENTS.CLASSIFIED ADS_________
DEADLINE: NOON WEDNESDAY for all 
announcements and classified ads. Per 
word rate of classified advertising: $.05.
general
A seminar on issues concerning the electri
cal industry will be held October 19-20 
at the Greater Pittsburgh Merchandise 
Mart, Monroeville. The seminar is spon
sored by the Electric League of Western 
Pennsylvania, in conjunction with the 
16th Electrical Exposition at the Merchan
dise Mart October 18-20, and is open to 
the public. The Electric League is an 
association of industry professionals which 
provides information and legislative assis
tance through cooperation with other en
ergy and business-related organizations, 
media, govenment and consumers. Topics 
to be covered are : "OSHA-You Don't Have 
to Like It to Live with It," "What's New 
with the I978 Electrical Code?," "Getting 
to Know Your Attorney Bettera Study
of Product Liability Problems," "Retro
fitting Old Electrical Systems for I980's 
Demands," "MESA LawIntroduction and 
Qualifying Procedure," and "Value Analy
sisAn Orderly Means of Combating the 
Uncertainty of Change."
Cost for the seminars is $15.00 for both 
days, or $9.00 for one day. Further in
formation on advance registration is avail
able from the Electric League Office, 
phone 281-1111. The 16th Electrical 
Exposition, to be held October 18-20 at 
the Merchandise Mart, is free and open to 
the public.
A Doctor who was declared rhedically dead
for 9 minutes will speak at Calvary Church 
about his extraordinary experience. 
George G. Ritchie, Jr. M.D.-Return From 
Tomorrow"-Friday 28 October 1977, 8 
PM (doors open 7 15) Calvary Episcopal 
Church, 315 Shady Ave., Pgh. 15206- 
Donation $2.
PROFESSIONALDISCOUNTS
Texas Instruments
electronic calculator
TI-1750 LCD 
TI-2550 III 
Little Prof 
Dataman NEW 
TI-5100 
TI-5015 NEW 
TI-5050M 
TI5040PD 
TI-30SP 
Oataclip 
Sfl-40 
SR-52 II 
Tl 57 NEW 
TI-58 NEW 
Tl 59 NEW 
PC 100A 
WBA
Money Mgr 
Bus Anylst 
All Libraries Available
Tl
DIGITAL
WATCHES!
HEWLETT JiD. PACKARD
HP 10 NEW 
HP 19C NEW 
HP-21 
HP 22 
HP 25 
HP-25C
3139 00 HP-27275 00 HP-29C NEW 
64 00 HP-80100 00 HP-67 00 00 HP 91128 00 HP 92 NEW128 00 Hp_g?
S 140,00
159.00
235.00
360.00 
275 00 
500 00
599.00
Also SCM. Olivetti. National Semiconductor Casio 
Canon Corvus, APF Sharp Craig Sanyo Record 
A Call and more All at great prices'
ProflianimaDtep I f* ** a . > Video Game S1296FAIRCHILD |2000 jjmes possibte)Canndjes 17Also F airchild Watches' Also FauchiM Watches'
WE WILL BEAT OR MEET ANY COMPETITORS PRICE IF HE HAS MERCHANDISE ON HAND All
unis shipped in original factory cartons with accessories 
according to manufacturers specifications In Calif call 
(213) 370-5795 or CALL (BOO) 421-0367 (other than
CA) Above prices are lot cash only Credit card prices 
ditte BankAmerlcard/Vlsa & Master Charge
accepted Send money order Pets ck (2 wks to clear! 
In CA add 6% sales tax Add S3 50 mm shipping 
charges WE SHIP AIFl on lequest Subiect to availa
bility Send mail orders to DEPT COt-J 
WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE CATALOG
WILSHIRE -2 STORES - HAWTHORNE 
%0
16611 HAWTHORNE BLVD., 
LAWNDALE. CA 90260 
(213) 370-5795
Biology Sophomores (only)There will
be a meeting of the Student Advisory 
Committee Tuesday, October 17 at 7:30 
PM in Skibo Room 11. Please attend.
JOBS AVAILABLE THROUGH RENT
A-TECH! Free living quarters in exchange 
for housekeeping and babysitting; Compu
ter programmer needed with knowledge 
of Fortran 5 and 6 to work with neuro
radiologist; .Full time babysitter needed to 
work five days a week, 6 AM to 5 PM; 
Dishwasher needed to work nights in local 
restaurant 6 PM11PM. $2.75/hour+tips; 
Local jeweler wants student interested in 
engraving to work part-time; Downtown 
department store needs security guard to 
work nights 5:30 PM to 2 AM. $3/hour; 
Local newspaper is looking for distribu
tors and commissioned subscription sellers, 
Salesperson wanted with experience in 
jewelry sales to work in downtown 
jewelry store; Salesperson and manager 
needed to work night shift at local gro
cery store, 3 or 4 PM to 11 PM. IF 
INTERESTED IN THESE JOB OPPOR
TUNITIES, COME TO THE STUDENT 
EMPLOYMENT SERVICE RENT-A-TECH 
AND FIND OUT MORE. OFFICE IS LO
CATED IN SKIBO, RM. 58 DURING OF
FICE HOURS 10:30-2:30 daily and 6-9 
in the evening or call : 682-5482.
Israeli Dancing is held every Thursday
7 PM in the B'nai B'rith Hillel Lounge, 
3rd floor, 315 S. Bellefield Avenue, across 
from Heinz Chapel.
Forbes Street Gallery Craft and Printmaking Show now through Oct. 23. 
Also in the "Gallery Plus" is an exhibit by 
University Graphics. Hours: Tuesday, Wed
nesday, Thursday 7-9 PM. All invited! 
(Watch for our next show!)
The DEUTSCHER ADADEMISCHER
AUSTAUSCHDIENST/DAAD (German 
Academic Exchange Service) offers scholar
ships to U.S. student for:
(1) 7-10 months of Graduate Study
and Research
(2) 8-week German Language courses
(3) Hachschulferienkurse - 3-week Sum
mer Courses at German Universities
(4) Short Term Study and Research
(5) Traineeship in Agriculture 
For further information and application 
forms for all programs, except the Grad
uate Study and Research (1), please con
tact the following office :
German Academic Exchange Service 
One Fifth Avenue, Apt. 110 
New York, N .Y. 10003 
Tel. (212) 260-2216
The Tech Flying Club will meet Wednes
day, Oct. 19, at 7 30 p.m. in Skibo 45. All 
members of the C-MU community with an 
interest in aviation are invited to attend.
classified
clubs
Attention S.W.E. membersThe Society of
Women Engineers is sponsoring a spa
ghetti dinner in early November. On 
Sunday, Oct. 23, at 1:00, we will meet in 
Room 7/ to finalize plans & sign up for 
jobs. If you can't attend, or have any sug
gestions, call Caryl Moskovitz at 578- 
4754.
The first general meeting of CMU's
i Club Francophone will be held at 5:30 
PM Wednesday, October 19, in the lounge 
of the Modern Language Dept, in Baker 
Hall.
The 1978 THISTLE will hold meetings
every Monday evening at 7:30 for photo
graphers and at 8:00 for copy and layout 
staff. Everyone is invited to attend and
join.
The Thank God it's Friday dance commit
tee will hold a meeting this Wednesday at 
7:00 in Skibo Room  33. If you are 
interested, please be there!
The CMU VOLLEYBALL CLUB will
?meet on Tues., Oct. 18 at 6 30 in the main 
gym. All members of the campus are in
vited. Come dressed to play.
CMU LAW CLUB. The CMU Law Club
will meet in Room 11 of Skibo at 8 PM on 
Wednesday, October 19. Anyone with an 
interest in law is invited.
Good looking young man, 28, Haverford
graduate, good sense of humor, consider
ate, bright and recently relocated to Pitts
burgh, interested in meeting a very attrac
tive, intelligent, vivacious young lady
21 to 28. Send photograph, name, address, 
phone number and a brief self-descriptive 
note to Mark, P.O. Box I804, Pittsburgh, 
Pa. 15219. All sincere replies answered.
Florians's Hairstyling Salon of Vienna.
Super haircutting for girls and guys. 
15% Discount for college students. 1831 
Murray Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15217. 
Call; 521-990.
Patti Smith, Baudelaire, Rimbaud, the
Symbolist Painters, Romaine Brooks 
If you're into any of these artists please 
write to L.L. P.O. Box one A 3 M.G.
LindaI didn't forget-it doesn't fit A.B. 
Happy Birthday, Naomi, you are a great
mother and friend.
Native Russian speaker interested in tutor
ing any student in Russian. Phone 
665-1363, ask for Igor.
Typingown typewriter, in my home
(Shadyside), reasonable,efficient, accurate. 
After 6 PM. 6659531
Original Wedding Bands. Why buy mass
produced rings: Have your own unique
design created. 243-5458.
Still Room on the Ground Roor for
Computer Careers at Amdahl
Computer professionals are aware that todays most advanced large-system technology was developed by a company that, not too long ago, was virtually 
unknown. It was during late 1975 
when Amdahl delivered its first multi- million-dollar 470V/6 system follow
ing a 5-year. $50,000,000 effortthat the company first attracted widespread industry attention. Now. Amdahl is the most talked about company in the industry: a compact group of highly talented high technologists producing the worlds highest performing general purpose computers, the V/5. V/6 and
V/7. Over a quarter billion dollars 
worth of Amdahl systems is now working worldwide in every industry sector using large-scale computers.The original design team is still virtually intact and working on future systems. Although we are growing at an extremely rapid pace, we are committed to retaining the same creative environment that yielded the V/5. V/6 and V/7. We are still small by com
puter industry comparisons. We are still friendly. We still enjoy attacking tasks because we think its fun. And
we still reward personal efforts with personal recognition.We think Amdahl is a great place to work. Theres still room on tne ground floor for you if you are about to receive a BS or advanced degree in electrical engineering or computer sciences, and consider yourself a cut 
above your classmates in competence, 
enthusiasm and potential.
Amdahl Corporation. 1250 East Arques Avenue. Sunnyvale. California 94086. We are. of course, an equal opi*)rtunity employer.
W( arc nnnint/ to ca mpus to fill 
positions in ha rd icarc.fi nntcarc and ha rdica re-related softicare. Hr arc specif'ini 11 // 
t ntcrrictcinff for firm tea re loffic 
andfinmcare designers and
Ini rd ica rc-n luted, soft tea rc 
(I iiifpuistic b,NN i nee rs. d ex if pi 
automation prof fra miners, and 
control prof/ram mers for our 
tn i ni-based console.
0N-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS:
Thursday, October 20
amdahl

---------------------------------------------------

W.TSW

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN FOLIO
OctOobe r18 r,997 Vllub rmNcCetOOal
EDITOR JEFFREY ZASLOW 
ASSISTANT EDITOR KAREN ANN YAKSICH 
ARTDIRECTOR ANDREW EPSTEIN 
CONTRIBUTING ARTISTS SCOTT POLLACK
TOM MEGALIS 
VAVA BUITENKANT 
ERIC POINT 
MARK GRASSO 
ROB ZIMMERMANN 
MARSHA FAIRBROTHER 
ROBIN NEISENBAUM 
MORRY BRENNER 
BRENDA REED
COVER DESIGN by ANDREW EPSTEIN
YeM 'RoSAlY/WV HflMLtKiEP 
'AiKirt' Y0'6TWAjE 4iX
1WA&HT W could 1W A& HTc 
^MTH/tK/ooLDi/ry im
that? ym.w. Fwf,
011! wiueio 
pMti am? DMl
A\\
iM,
DONTJG MAtf
%VlG6iF\ PK665 
RI6//T]
J6 6^r kJrt/|T Vo
YoO THlAiic /)6T MCt-IHmu2JAiO /,r
O ctober18

---------------------------------------------------

Coming Soon The
WE GUARANTEE THAT THE OWNER 0*- AN 
HPM-.357 WILL NOT FAIL ANY EXAM. WHY? 
BECAUSE HEWLET-PACKAD HAS COL
LABORATED WITH THE MAGNUMFIRARMS 
CORPORATION TO PRODUCE THE WORLD'S 
FIRST SEMI-AUTOMATIC CALCULATOR:
SPECIAL FEATURES:
 METRIC CONVERSION TO 9MM ROUNDS
% FIRES NICAD BULLETS (FULLY RELOADABLE)DISPLAY TALLIES SHOTS FIRED 
CLEAR BUTTON EJECTS JAMMED 
CARTRIDGES
 AVAILABLE WITH OPTIONAL LINEPRINTERINFRARED SIGHT
 VOID WHERE PROHIBITED BY LAW
 NOT TO BE SOLD TO STUDENTS UNDER 18 
YEARS OF AGE
CONTACT BOB ZIMMERMANN TO ORDER YOUR 
CALCULATOR TODAY ! 683-4611
1HEA /cu^ quote 
1 HEARD -rvMr rHCY wrRE 
TTIN&A cap AND LrCHH OK) 
WAWER HALLjI DlDMT BUEVE IT.- "BELIE ?
*T, TME rOh/Aj I 5IMG iHOftsMT
, (gfr
THOUGHT TUB
*S i>L>Pfth>D TO BE OM 
TUB R16HT :>."
(W AKE VtttD'jf 
FOR FUAJWY aOCrzs 
TUA< Su&MlT to 
T*exfW vrAff tot 
TMS mCVlamb nmng 
DOLLAR *JILL % 
AkAtteD 9) rue 
Uw/ueR)
sor5 RUFSE Mo out
TlDIG ALWCHELS L! TlDIG&ALO +
U Ai>

---------------------------------------------------

IRifBSifc
--------------------
lFt Artlte1* HUIS"
(AL Ufi IrtllHTItfb
/I iirvArtoN COHtOY
on nenfthpr sig 
Mit/lAIUM TheS UM6Ar TH 
TlD6I6GAl
LWCHH 8ES!USC 
D/SHf A12R )
FRAK
ngui- MUvU
oul duC&
$000 
SEHESJ 
gjfc
WlGNANGWRCT MangM erqui \s fiueo um H SCffeT IHWUiXO^ 
USlOVSftMARfj 
\SlAMHbUS INVCTVS'THOS 
tnsn6 you WtTH 
uJAK 5WFnLsRT 0, ILUTRKt? 5f0Ul 6 
ls e-Csay ..
r PhCn 527 Ctn 3B 7
T
M ScPfiewofi VAR f&AK L PUI
itA H COiiiW'f 
IaeWrI W Pc od
lcloem Mwshm 
of -oMR Ex-CAWY L<?Wft
nfck u6w/ TH(i PlacUMArT
WSMBHC
TlDIGAL
lCSe*#:.
 1?A (fi)
CtMJWVUTVifl 
S PM
Ir)
onCw! VtucWWHrCARL'
1 0JoM FM^L. SVPWftlTMMt 
A RtCM A*A&> A (UUHAM (RL;AWwrW.PRSS,
60ff) 
Mitfe PW(LS,nA? -
1/
rttCLAw "I and my fouma 
ftOiMMAi'iiJrWOTO $ecyi ftaowcpftnoMS t>FF CAwfUif
v CROSFI EOaSlHSSCfeIWconpurdR NuJ?J)> Kuoo/S AX IMUWt AMO SW W6U5H/ FRi<5ue>TLy 
IMfO OtENTAD
fAC/tlKE |F|T|$tf<rM iv Na^ R4AT FMND, ) fRlfteR Ht5CH<w>L ( ftlBOY'-J"' ~)MicWAtL ITsCtuu JtfST GSIulSJCSC
I!j TRoM HIS 1 YAR.V y HCmClrLeWCCH
{oLCruw Cnm WS 
' cf swir^eRtAV
r ( Your TheSOfJOSFR4TVfC
so OVR rufe SurtMiK FRtuV. S&uRLW m 
Painful PRoUii OP 
<LooCtJ& For a ftft'. 
ul bthaan dyI 
Acucies l\< Rto-cpusr unT> 
<%rwR (uirw LlTrtfc $ttCt6<.S,
UeLLO, I'M A CLueGeSTuDeNr LOOWf tl'ltVo
^H6jO?
wfc den PAUse
Fad CoMMUtttftCA* 
TM lOtUTiFlCMiotfTKIS ffeL 
ACTT*PT AT HUMOR S RR0U6HT To Y*U 
COuRTt^V F 
Trtt TARTAM-AMO A ORtowtb 
SAW*l6S KCOUNT Cthanx MJ6y/-)
UtLLO,J'M ACHLLSb&
PRFER 
K>tLOH
LooKlH
- tUC^N
i' S"1
_4u
FRU^AFO f^tA< WsrtO TH HtLP Of 
AWOTHfel< FRI^ peRATLV LCCKIN Fifi.A PLAC - MACK 
Sl\e.KtflF
.ANO FRfc*K,iF Ycu OWT 'ici- totiffe iHtV w/tRt^r 
Fik)0 ( a PlACfc I'M s(Ol(Jt TC TAKt JV5T 
COUHA &L01V /tuR 6i?AlMb ^ AtJYTHllOG ... 
our,
B/ SfcprtrftBR. rHyDiNT t,iv' A iXO^cP
MACK iheKNIFB
CCUPAriCW; JOC<? 
SUfpCSeLV 6ARNI^6 ^
066^ Ar ARMPirr. RtaNiL icicttOc'ur of 
FRA r. FC^R FRM~ ?^(:SiOeUT 5T^fJrH
OF 6RM^
DC rv\Arc H.
THIS 1^*1"pua
i , X y x \
50 FomHArtLY TH StNl^6 0FTH6 LA<.e*< 
TWtV60T TH or II
vv Lo$iiJ6 oe-wS coiJ4Tirurwv/A6 RiHiS
1 " W"
w oVRW
viltiau xCC VfcK.'y WtLL,fiur <:^^l SU cootc?
H>rpo  __
5uRe.THiSu/ASP^,fUaiA iAHO SiTARN 
X Ka/ou/THt ft, BMA, 
uS) rwo/ SeTM-E, m l^kSV 
6R6, LoRl.^Ai^.KATWy^l^y) 
WArA.CAW. AWf TR0eAa>M|cK ) 
LISA .CH^yicr^BALO/^ilC^OtT 
, $TlV,U/AVW , , MARK, FRANK,
jwe.JwW'C(^Al6 TM A0^ j PAT
/CW/ 05U/fiLO/Mtl, iiAtito/OKfe) 
miAi oWOlUMAAl AUD /|MyA/i 00 IT WK/M6 R?R &tTcc? WWeS///

---------------------------------------------------

ENTERTAINMENT FATHER'S DAY: UNTYPICAL COMEDY
A Play Review 
Play.: Father's Day 
Company: Pittsburgh Public Theatre 
Director: Michael Flanagan
by M.G. Minor
^ Oliver Haileys Fathers Day is not a 
play tailored for student audiences. Its 
rather spineless plot involves middleaged people struggling with the problems 
of middle-age. All of the characters are 
survivors of that ever growing American 
institution: divorce. Fathers Day arrives 
and three divorced couples, who live in 
the same building, decide to spend it to
gether. Throughout the play they contin
ually examine the shortcomings of their 
fragmented relationships, as they try to 
make sense out of divorce. Mr. Hailey 
guides his six victims through a series of 
major and minor confrontations as they 
attempt to come to grips with the stark 
realities of post-marital life. It doesnt 
sound like your usual college crowd comi*edy, does it? But Pittsburgh Public The
atre makes it enjoyable for everyone.
Fathers Day has a very eventful history 
behind it. The play was originally written 
in 1970 and was performed at the Mark 
Taper Forum in Los Angeles. As an un
titled work-in-progress. It quickly gained 
national recognition and moved to Broad
way, but closed abruptly after only one 
I nigfrt.
Ben Shaktman brought it to Pittsbureh
and Hailey himself rewrote a lot of the 
script specifically for this production.
I had never found Fathers Day a very 
exhilerating show. In the two encounters 
that Ive had with it, Id never seen any
thing important in it. Pittsburgh Public 
I Theatres production re-generates our faith 
in this American comedy. They make it 
more than just another string of oneWhen David had open 
heart surgery not long 
ago, he needed six vital 
units of blood, type O Neg. 
All of it was obtained, 
processed and provided 
by the Red Cross blood 
center.
We re not the heroes of 
this lifesaving stcry (the 
six wonderful blood 
donors should get the 
medals). But we (and 
other voluntary blood cen
ters) do need your con
tinued support Blood, 
you know, doesnt grow on 
trees. It comes from 
donors. Like you. And we 
need more people like 
you. Call your Red Cross 
or other voluntary blood 
center soon. Please.David Naime counted onus.
We're 
counting on you.
ftceo
liners devoid of any pathos.
It took Pittsburgh Public Theatre and 
their guest director Michael Flanagan to 
convince me of the virtues in Haileys 
script. Flanagan has a talented ensemble 
to work with. It also must have helped to 
have had Hailey on hand to make re-writes. 
Hailey has so clearly defined his women 
that the first act must have written itself. 
In the second act, he takes the six char
acters and keeps mixing them in different, 
combinations. He places them on a simple 
patio setting on the west end of New York 
and sees where the scenes go from there.
Haileys product seduces its audience; 
it takes them in and bats them around a 
bit. This is an untypical comedy. The 
laughs take you by surprise, the comedy 
doesnt come on scheduled.
Act I sets you up for the shoot out 
that are going to occur in Act II. The
sgOfl sgO Va 
CecgVtbctueb 
From 1400 to the Present
l-w pdHz. PU e-AJdwk.
 1* pog*i of full-color photographs
 2SO black-and-white Illustration* throughout
 lnd> of building
Here is the first comprehensive ar
chitectural encyclopedia to focus on ar
chitects instead of buildings. This in
valuable reference book begins in the 
early Renaissance when the notion of 
the professional architect first emerges 
and continues to the present, with 
essays on more than 500 architects by 
such eminent historians os George 
Collins. Edgor Koufmonn. Jr.. and Sir An
thony Blunt. Hundreds of photographs 
drawings and plans of the world $ finest 
structures, both historic ond modern, ore 
included to make this beautiful volume a
$19.95 
cPu oOOSltOeb
women: Louise, Estelle and Marian. It
familiarizes us with the womens side of 
the divorce issue, their needs, their disappoinments. The men dont come in until 
the second act of the play, and thats when 
the fireworks begin. Most of the characters 
come to shocking realizations during the 
second act, but they all bounce back with 
seasoned resilience; the way were condi
tioned to in life.
The actors are all strong in this pro 
duction. This cast is of a rare excellence. 
The joy that actors take in sharing the 
play with each other adds a welcome di
mension to the whole, lliat, no writer 
could consciously incorporate into a script. 
The wit comes out of the. characters, hot 
out of the writer. We never get the sense 
that the cnmedv is laid on.
The plays emphasis is on the women. 
Louise is certainly the most colorful char
acter in this category. Bitchy, biting and 
quick at the comeback, Louise is rarely 
caught with her defenses down. Shes an 
exotic chemistry of self-esteem and selfloathing that is wrestling for an appro
priate outlet.
Louise is a tricky character. Shes 
layered, complex. A lesser actress than 
Elaine Kerr would have been tempted to 
reduce the character to a smaller percen
tage of her emotional range and played her
only tor her comic possibilities. Not this 
actress. Ms. Kerr is in there pitching all 
the time. We see the tragedy behind her 
comic make-up. Knowing the true emo
tional capacity ef Louise enriches our en
joyment of all the caustic witticisms that 
pass her lips.
Sharon Laughlin took a big gamble with 
her characterization of Marian and turned 
up some very impressive results. Ms.
Laughlins Marian is every socialite youve 
ever encounteed, every patroness of the 
arts who ever refused to see anything but 
truth and beauty in their existence. Her 
Marian is airy, semi-detached and manner
ed. But were able to see the hurts and 
disappointments that are responsible for 
the evolution of such mannerisms. It is an 
extremely stylized approach to a painfully 
realistic portrayal.
Monica Merryman, as Estelle, is at 
the center of this feminine trio. Shes 
the cohesive factor that holds the sharply 
contrasting Louise and Marian together. 
The Estelle character isnt as intriguing 
as Marian, or as engaging as Louise, but 
shes true nevertheless. Estelle is the 
housewife, the homebody, the American 
orphan who dreamed of one day being 
the fulcrum of a loving and stable family.
The men are less clearly defined. They 
are more instrumental in assisting Hailey 
in delineating the women. They are less 
interesting, rather shallow. This was a 
deliberate choice on Haileys part so they 
wouldnt overshadow the women. Ivor Brog 
ger, Robert Murch and David Snell all 
performed admirably in their rather 
.cramped roles. They give us developed 
characters in under-developed parts.
Comedies of this nature are usually 
made to cater to a New York audience. 
Everything about them reeks of the Big 
Apple, like the plays of Neil Simon that 
wear their locale like a comic flashing 
his bow tie. But here wit is for the sake 
of survival. Louise, for instance, keeps 
cracking jokes to prevent herself from 
crying.
With a strong cast, Haileys dialogue 
surpasses the usual boundaries of the pulpy, 
sanitized toilet humor television foists on 
us in the name of comedy. Important 
comedy has got to cost its characters 
something. It has got to be more than 
just a grab bag of one-liners and sight gags 
strung together with a frail plot.
The setting requirements are rather re
strictive, but designers Virginia Dancy and 
Elmon Webb cheat a little and manage to 
work in a variety of levels and playing 
areas,
Pittsburgh Public Theatre has a suc
cessful opener. This human comedy, 
despite its subject matter, has something 
to say to everybody, and like all good 
theatre, the whole is far greater than 
the sum of its parts.
For Free Brochure - Write
THE COMPUTER-AGE 
DATING SERVICE
DATAMATIC 
P. 0. BOX 7421 
OAKLAND STATION 
PITTSBURGH, 
PENNSYLVANIA 15213

---------------------------------------------------

page 14TARTANOctober 18, 1977
GEORGE SEGAL: MAN AND IDEAS
A Lecture Review 
Lecturer: George Segal 
Series: Man and Ideas 
Sponsor: Carnegie Institute
ot representational torm, light, sculptural 
space and references to common existence.
In more recent works, Segal has aban
doned the simplicity of his earlier sculp
ture. He began using color and fragmented 
images. The purity became dissipated in 
my mind, and lost its ability to create ex
treme reactions from the viewer.
In commenting on the lecture itseit, 
and Segals ability as a lecturer, it was 
fairly complete, and gave an interesting in
sight into the world of an artist who began 
a career in a new enough form to be un
supported, but who later gained support. 
That is not to say though that I found the 
lecture all that enlightening. Segal ne
glected to include issues which seem im
portant, such as his affiliation with the Pop 
artists, or any references to critical views 
taken towards his work. In general, the 
man was like his work, more subjective 
than objective, especially in his failure to 
make any completely comprehensive state
ments of a truly intellectual form.
by Marjorie Keman
Opening the Man and Ideas lecture 
series this year, was sculptor George Segal. 
The audience present was large enough to 
indicate that this was an important event 
in Pittsburgh. The audience consisted main
ly of students and well-dressed patrons of 
the arts.
Mr. Segal began by apologizing for the 
hedonistic title of the lecture ; George 
Segal on George Segal. He explained that 
this was the only subject that he was truly 
qualified to speak on. Appropriately, his 
introduction was about himself, and his be
ginnings as an artist. Though rather vague, 
he made some interesting statements about 
exactly how he had formed a basis for his 
work.
He had studied with, and been exposed 
to the Abstract Expressionists of New 
York in the 50s. Consequently, he rebelled 
against what he found to be a too formalr 
expression and began working in a form 
more valuable to himself, that of the per
sonal expression. Segal said that he agreed 
with the concepts of the Abstractionists, 
but did not believe that abstraction was 
completely necessary. Therefore, we find 
Segal working in the most purely represent
ational form, that of the human figure. It 
would be safe to say that Segal draws heav
ily on the classical images in art, especially 
in considering the narrative quality of 
much of his work. He went on to make 
some extremely vague statements about all 
art, in the history of art, being a miracu
lous fantasy. Further on this line, Segal 
said that he felt that abstract art departed 
from the spirit, defining the spirit as an 
emotional well, and that his purpose was to 
find that spirit and imbue his work with it. 
This is important in understanding Segals 
work, in that it explains the subjective, or 
empirical quality of it.
Slides were shown in chronological or
der. Segal talked about each one, referring 
to how it had been done, and some of the 
conceptual basis for it. An early work, Man 
at a Table, was explained as a reaction against high art in its use of immediate 
images and materials. He spoke of it as a 
personal reference.
In another piece, The Bus Driver, 
which naturally enough is a man seated in 
the front of a bus (a real piece of bus, by 
the way), Segal spoke of embracing the 
real world which meant dealing in com
mon images, i.e. banality. A later piece en
titled Cinema is probably one of Segals 
best. In this he uses the common incidental 
image more successfully. It is a much more 
innovative piece with its use of local light, 
and also is highly stylized with the strong 
rectangle forming the background, the sil
houetted figure in the foreground, and the 
one red letter being placed upon the mar
quee. Here we find an interesting synthesis
Call your mother
Nobody in the world understands you the way she does. And she would love to hear how youre doing right now Call your mother tonight.. .Long Distance. Because if you dial the call yourself, station-to-station, between 5 and 11 P.M., youll be able to talk for ten minutes for $2.57 (plus tax) or less to anywhere in the continental U.S. except Alaska!
Dial-direct rates do not apply to person-to-person, coin, hotel guest, credit card, collect calls, or to calls charged to another number. 
Dial-direct rates apply on calls placed with an operator where direct dialing facilities are not available.
Long Distance. What else is so nice for the price?
Bell of Pennsylvania
r MSU mpxS  , . ' .. .vVViTV > 
If you have questions, comments, suggestions, or criticisms about food service,

---------------------------------------------------

October 18, 1977TARTANpage 15
ldifeent things to different peoplePRINTMAKING
EXHIBIT
WHTSAN NSACAREER?
Of course, all employees at the National Security 
Agency have certain things in common: they are 
civilian employees of the Department of Defense: 
they are engaged in technical projects vital to our 
nations communications security or a foreign 
intelligence production mission: and they all enjoy 
the benefits that accompany Federal employment. 
However, the differences between our career 
opportunities are just as interesting as their 
similarities. For example^. .
TO THE ELECTRONIC ENGINEER (BS/MS): An NSA 
career means delving into unique projects which can 
span every phase of the R&D cycle. An engineer may 
design, develop, test and manage contracts on 
communications, recording, and information storage 
devices and systems whose capacities and speeds 
are still considered futuristic in most quarters.
TO THE COMPUTER SCIENTIST (BS/MS): It means 
applying his or her knowledge in a wide range of 
sub-disciplines such as systems design, systems pro
gramming, operating systems, computer applications 
analysis, and retrieval systems.
TO THE MATHEMATICIAN (MS): A career means 
defining, formulating, and solving complex communications-related problems. Statistical mathematics, 
matrix algebra and combinatorial analysis are just a 
few of the tools applied by the NSA mathematician.
Interested in learning more about the difference in 
an NSA career? Schedule an interview with us through 
your Student Placement Office today. If we do not 
recruit on your campus, send a resume to the address 
given below.
U.S. citizenship is required.
by Andrea Smith 
and John Goodman
Along with the continuing Crafts and 
Printmaking Exhibit in the main gallery, is 
an exhibit in the Gallery Plus by Uni
versity Graphics, C-MUs student-managed 
design service. Included in the show (which 
will run thru Oct. 21), are some of their 
more recent posters, advertisements for 
campus lectures, movies and special events.
According to Mike Hoffman, artistic 
director of University Graphics, The pri
mary purpose of the show is aesthetic, not 
promotional. In keeping with this goal, 
the exhibit does not include the variety of, 
other design work-brochures, stationery, 
business cards, signs, etc., which Graphics 
produces. Though we want to show 
people what kind of quality work Univers
ity Graphics produces, we are more inter
ested here in exposing people to the art of 
poster design, he explains.
In addition, Mike says, poster designers 
must do this without the aid of the variety 
of printing techniques (such as serigraphy, 
relief and lithography), available to other 
print designers. They must learn to work 
within the limits of the offset printing pro
cess, the inexpensive commercial method 
used in producing the posters.
Judging from the work in the show, it 
would seem that the artists at University 
Graphics have been able to overcome such 
limitations. With a clever and sophisticated 
understanding of the printing process, they 
have been able to achieve a variety of ef
fects as well as create an interest and ex
citement in what otherwise could have 
been standard advertising fare.
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY Attn: M321
Fort George G. Meade. Maryland 20755 
An Equal Opportunity Employer m/f.
University Graphics welcomes all inter
ested people either as artists or clients. Be
sides offering professional design work at 
the lowest available price, University Gra
phics, like the gallery, also provides stu
dents with an opportunity, unavailable 
within the confines of their department, 
for real world experience.
University Graphics is located in Skibo, 
Room 54.
Poster design, as Mike describes it, dif
fers from other two-dimensional art forms, 
and even other print work, in that the art
ist is more limited by both his subject and 
techniques. The artist is given a general 
idea and basic promotional information 
with which he must work. The challenge 
lies in his ability to communicate these 
effectively. He must accurately report the 
information while trying to convey just the 
right feeling and produce something which 
is aesthetically pleasing as well.
then call the Food Service Director's Hot Line, 578-2127, Monday 5-6pm
C j

---------------------------------------------------

pa* e 16TARTANOctober 18, 1977
20lh CENTURY FOX Piesents
A RICHARD ROTH Presentation ol A FRED ZINNEMANN FilmIE
Sing JASON ROBARDS HAE HOLBROOK ?Y MURPHY ao MAXIMILIAN SCHELL3/,
Directed by Produced by Screenplay by Based upon the story byFRED ZINNEMANN RICHARD ROTH ALVIN SARGENT LILLIAN HELLMAN
GEORGES'DELERUE JSL' '3t
PG PARENTAL GUIDANCE SUGGESTED
STARTS NEXT WEEK AT
SQUIRREL HILL THEATRE
The story of two women whose friendship suddenly became a matter of life and death."PHILOSOPHERS HAVE 
BEEN ASKING FOR 
THOUSANDS OF YEARS"
'EVERYONE IS NOW ASKING' 
"WHAT IS A 'PEACH ROLL-UP'. . .?"
JOIN US AND DISCOVER FOR 
YOURSELF ON FRIDAY OCT. 21 
'DINNER AT THE 
MOREWOOD CAFETERIA 
AND THE KILTIE CAFE'
"COMING NOVEMBER 1ST 
THREE POINT NIGHT"
KEEP THE GLASSI
49C filled with coca cola
AT THE
TARTAN
GRILL
MONDAY 
THRU 
FRIDAY 
11am - 
4pm
KEEP THE MUG!
30C filled with coffee
vS. guycNE
AT THE
BAKERY
DELI
MONDAY 
THRU 
FRIDAY 
7am - 
3 pm
COMPLETE YOUR CMU 
MEMORABILIA!
14 oz. CMU Drinking Glass.
COMPLETE YOUR CMU 
MEMORABILIA!
8 oz. Reusable CMU Plastic Mug
While Supplies Last

---------------------------------------------------

EVENTS.THEATRE
David Rabes electrifying play Streamers 
will have its Pittsburgh premier at Al
legheny Campus College Community 
Theatre on October 20, 21, 22, 28, and
29 at 8:30 PM and on October 23 and
30 at 2:30 PM. Reservations can be ob
tained by calling 237-2622. Admission
^is free.
Applause, a musical version of the film 
All About Eve, which starred Bette Da
vis and Ann Baxter, will begin a 12- 
performance run October 28 at McKee
sport Little Theater. Playdates are Octo
ber 28, 29, 30, November 4, 5, 6, 11, 
12, 13, 18, 19, and 20.
Shakespeares curel comedy Measure for 
^Measure will be presented by the South 
Campus of Community College on October
13-15, curtain at 8 PM. Reserved seat 
tickets are $3, and reservations may be 
made by contacting the Performing Arts 
Department at 469-1100, Ext. 390, be
tween 10-2 PM weekdays.
The Duquesne University Red Masquers 
will open their 1977-78 season in October 
^ with the production of Harold 'Pinter's 
play, The Birthday Party."
The play will be held Oct. 20, 21 and 22 
at 8 pm. in the Union Ballroom. Tickets,
available at the door, are $1 with a student 
I.D. and $2 without. Additional informa
tion may be obtained by contacting Dr. 
Joseph Keenan at 434-6433.
Pittsburgh Laboratory Theatre will present 
THE RULING CLASS by Peter Barnes, 
Fridays through Sundays, October 14-16, 
21-23, 28-30; November 4-6, 11-13, and 
18-20, at 8 :30 PM. The Lab Theatre is 
located at 3300 Fifth Avenue (corner of 
Fifth and Craft), Oakland. Seating is lim
ited and advance reservations should be 
made by calling 621-2876. .
CINEMA
AB will be presenting Sergei Eisenstein's 
Potemkin on Thursday, October 20 at 7 
and 8:30 pm. This is a Russian film about 
the mutiny of the battleship Prince Potem
kin. This is an important film for film 
freaks. It established many of the conven
tions now practised in American films. It's 
only .75 with an ID. All AB films are 
shown in Doherty Hall.
AB will be presenting Warhol's Dracula on 
Friday, October 21 at 6, 8, 10, and 12. 
They promise lots of blood and lots of sex. 
Lets turn out and support this CMU alum. 
Tickets are one dollar with an ID card. The 
film will be shown in Doherty Hall.________
ARCTIC BEASTS
Ursula Bottcher, animal trainer ex
traordinaire, appears with 10 performing 
j^polar bears. The awesome arctic beasts 
perform amazing feats for their diminutive 
(five-foot) master, in the first polar bear 
presentation in the U.S. in 30 years, and 
the second Circus act ever from the Ger
man Democratic Republic. Ursula has 
worked with the mammoth bears, weighing
1,000 pounds each and standing 10 feet 
tall, for 10 years, following training lions 
^and tigers in a German circus. She believes 
the bears are more intelligent than any 
other animals she has known.
With their three-inclf nonretractable 
claws, great size and speed, these Arctic 
giants are considered the most dangerous 
of all performing animals. Unlike their 
honey bear cousins, they are flesh eaters. 
Ursula refuses to let even past injuries
daunt her, though, explaining, As soon 
as a trainer develops fear its only a matter 
of time until the animals destroy him. 
This educated ursine group is composed 
of bears captured in Russia as cubs, and 
mothered by Ms. Bottcher. As the worlds 
only woman polar bear trainer, she puts 
her huge charges through astounding 
paceswaltzing with them, riding them 
bareback, commanding them into a pyra
mid /and feeding one giant bear with a 
morsel of sugar from her lips.
Tickets to Ringling Bros, and Barnuni& 
Bailey Circus go on sale October 3 at the 
Civic Arena Box Office, open 12 noon8 PM Monday through Saturday; and at 
all area Network Ticket Outlets (all Kaufmanns and Sears; and Hornes, down
town Pittsburgh). Ticket prices are $4.50, 
$6.00 and $7.00, opening night is Nov
ember 3.
SDC will be presenting the relatively 
new release, called Carrie. It involves 
a girl who becomes aware of her super
natural natural powers on her high 
school prom night. Admission is free. 
It will be screened in Doherty hall on 
Saturday. October 22 at 6. 8:30 and 11.
Beginning on October 24 through March
30, 1979, you can take an Expedition to 
Excitement, via the Carnegie Institute 
Travel Film Series.
The various expeditions will transport 
you to such locales as the Rhine River, 
Egypt, Central America, Poland and Japan.
Scheduled weekly from October 
through March the films are narrated in 
person by the producer. Adventurous and 
armchair travelers alike will enjoy these 
colorful and informative expeditions. Call
622-3314 for schedule information.
The Carnegie Institues sponsors several 
films a week in their building down in Oak
land. Admission is always one dollar. Call 
the film section of Carnegie Institute at 
622-3212.
family enjoyment in the beautiful setting 
of the Music Hall.
Scheduled for the first recital on Octo
ber 16th are organist Paul Koch and guest 
soloist Elizabeth Youngue, mezzo-soprano.
MUSIC
ART
The Hewlett Gallery located in the building 
of Fine Arts will begin an exhibition of the 
works by the Carnegie-Mellon University 
Department of Art Faculty. The show will 
run from October 10 until October 27. 
The Gallery is open Monday through Fri
day from 11 00 until 4:00 PM.
MISC.
The red and gold colors ot eariy autumn 
mark the return of the golden masters 
of jazz to the University of Pittsburgh 
campus Oct. 20-22. For the seventh 
consecutive year, the University has 
opened its doors to the international 
greats of the jazz industry, and this fall 
is no exception. The Old Master," 
Kenny Clarke, and the currently hot 
talents of Dexter Gordon will highlight 
the 3-day workshop seminars held in 
the Pitt Student Union and culminating 
in a Saturday night concert at Carnegie 
Hall at 8:30 PM.
The lecture sessions are free and open 
to the public. Saturday evening's concert 
presenting Clarke, Gordon, Abraham 
Laboriel (bass), Woody Shaw (brass), 
Mike Longo (piano), Terry Pollard 
(vibes), and seminar director, Nathan 
Davis (reeds), will have advance admission 
of $2.00 with a Pitt student I.D.; all 
others $5.00. Tickets are on sale at the 
Pitt Student Union Ticket office.
A Fall Jazz Concert will be held on Octo
ber 29 from 1 to 5 pm. at Chatham Col
lege. Admission is free. Featured will be 
the Pitt Jazz Ensemble and Kid Smoker 
will be the special guest. The concert will 
be held in the Chatham Chapel if it should 
rain. For more information call 441-8200.
Appearing as the second feature in Heinz 
Halls Cavalcade of Great Bands series 
will be the New Brubeck Quartet for one 
concert only Tuesday, November 1 at
8 PM.
Tickets to hear this special jazz en
semble are $8, $7, and $6 on sale at 
Heinz Hall, Kaufmanns, Sears, Gimbels, 
and Hornes.
The Pittsburgh Symphony will perform 
portions of Wagner's Tristan and Isolde 
in c mcerts to be held in Heinz Hall on 
Thursday, November 3 at 8 pm., Friday, 
November 4 at 8:30 pm. and Sunday after
noon, November 6 at 2:30 pm. instead of 
the Mozart Divertimento and Music from 
Wagners Siegfried" announced earlier for 
these dates.
Attendance at Pittsburgh Symphony Or
chestra concerts is possible by season sub
scription only. However, tickets are occa
sionally turned back to the box office for 
resale prior to the performance. Informa
tion is available by phoning 281-5000.
This season the exciting organ recital series 
at Carnegie Music Hall, Carnegie Institute 
will feature prominent Pittsburgh Musi 
cians as guest soloists along with the 
scheduled organists.
The concerts, given every third Sunday 
of each month from October to March, at 
3 oclock provide a leisurely afternoon of
TGIF, Thank God Its Friday, will be fea
turing Crossfire this Friday, October 21 
from 9:30 until 12:30 in the Skibo Ball
room. Turn out and dance to the sound of 
Crossfire. On November 4 they have a spe
cial event planned from 9:30 until 12:30 
which they arent saying anything about 
at the moment. There will be no TGIF 
dance on November 11, the week of John 
Mayall and the James Cotton Band.
The Alternative Coffee House will feature 
Tom Steppe; CMU student and SAE Fra
ternity member on Friday, October 21, 
1977 at 8:30 pm. Tom will play soft folk 
rock with jazz overtones at the Coffee 
House, located in the Lutheran University 
Center, 4515 Forbes Ave. in Oakland. Live 
entertainment is showcased each Friday 
evening at THE ALTERNATIVE, open 
from 8 pm. through midnight. For inform
ation, call 682.-6886.
Ringling Bros, and Barnum & Bailey Circus 
will appear at the Pittsburgh Civic Arena 
Thursday, November 3, through Sunday, 
November 6. A brand-new, completely dif
ferent show will be presented in the first 
Pittsburgh appearance of the Blue Unit of 
the Greatest Show on Earth in four years.
The International Poetry' Forum will 
present poets, Anthony Ostroff and 
David Wagoner, on Wednesday, October 
26, at 8:00 PM in Carnegie Lecture Hall.
Tickets for this reading are $3.00 
and are available to students for $2.00. 
Tickets may be purchased at Kaufmanns, 
Sears, the Pitt Student Union or the 
Forum office in Carnegie Library, Oak
land. For more information, call
621-9893.
Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre will present 
ballets liveliest comedy, Coppelia, as the 
second offering of its 1977-78 Season. 
Three performances will be given of Cop
pelia which has been staged by PBT Ballet 
Master Frano Jelincic to the music of Leo 
Delibes.
Dates for the performances in Heinz 
Hall include: Friday, October 21, at 8 pm., 
Saturday, October 22, at 8 pm., and Sun
day, October 23, at 2:30 pm. Good tickets 
are still available for all three performances 
and can be purchased at Heinz Hall or may 
be charged by calling 281-0360.
As part of its artistic expansion plans for 
the 1977-78 season, Pittsburgh Public The 
ater will initiate a New Play Development 
Program of staged readings including three? 
new plays never before produced. The 
series is intended to develop and refine 
plays with the playwright for eventual 
mainstage performances at the Public. Due 
to extremely limited seating, this series is 
available only to the Public's subscribers.
All readings will be presented on Pitts
burgh Public Theater's mainstage at the 
Allegheny Theater on the citys Northside.

---------------------------------------------------

October 18, 1977-TARTANpage 18
A Public Service of this newspaper & The Advertising Council W
Red Cross is an organization 
of physical action, of instanta
neous action; it cannot await the 
ordinary deliberation of organ
ized bodies if it would be of 
use to suffering humanity...1
Clara Barton,Red Cross founder
MASS - BUFFET - DISCUSSION 
TUESDAY 6:00 P.M.18 CMUS CHuoEL (SKABW 39)
luaDCQ PCllblN
7:00 P.M. Saturday Folk Mass
10:30 A.M. Folk Mass 
12:00 Noon Solemn Liturgy
Hunt Library 
Multipurpose Room 
Heinz Chapel
DAILY MASSES Monday through Friday
12:30 Noontime CMU's Chapel (Skibo 39)
&
University Oratory of the Holy Spirit Parish 
CMUs R.C. Chaplaincy  Fr. Bob English 
4040 Bigelow Blvd. Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213 
(412)681-3181
Seniors ... 
An MBA at NYU?
Located in the business and financial capital of the world, New 
York University has the nation's largest private Graduate 
School of Business Administration. Bill Armstrong can discuss 
the possibilities there for you on Tuesday, October 25 when he 
visits the campus. The Placement Center has program in
formation and a sign-up schedule.
It's your future 
Consider the possibilities
NY U is an equal opportunity institution.

---------------------------------------------------

October 18, 1977TARTANpage 19
VISTA is coming 
alive again. How about coming alive with us?
Call toll free:
ROO-424-8580. VISTA
Be A Pathfinder! Intramurals
by John Edwards
The Camegie-Mellon University Path
finder Orienteering Cub announced its fall 
schedule of events recently. The POC 
which has won numerous awards and 
honors nationally is again planning to tra
vel across country and to Canada. October 
29 the club is sponsoring, along with the 
Military Science Dept., a regional meet in 
Raccoon Creek State Park, Beaver County. 
The expected participation may be ovei 
200, according to Club president Ron
"PHILOSOPHERS HAVE 
BEEN ASKING FOR 
THOUSANDS OF YEARS"
'EVERYONE IS NOW ASKING'
"WHAT IS A 'PEACH ROLL-UP'.. .?
'JOIN US AND DISCOVER FOR 
YOURSELF ON FRIDAY OCT. 21 
'DINNER AT THE 
MOREWOOD CAFETERIA 
AND THE KILTIE CAFE'
VI
"COMING NOVEMBER 1ST 
THREE POINT NIGHT"
Pontius and that would be a record for a 
western PA meet.
Also planned for either October or early 
November is a meet in Schenley i*ark to 
introduce the campus community to Orien; 
teering. The clubs travel schedule includes 
the North American Orienteering Cham
pionships in LaChute, Quebec, on October 
8 and 9. Then there are two local meets, 
one by the North East Ohio Orienteering 
Club (NEOOC) at Chagrin State Park on 
October 16 and then a West Virginia Uni
versity Club meet on October 22. After 
our own meet on the 29th, club members 
will travel to Boston to compete in the 
NEW England Orienteering Championships 
on November 5 and 6. NEOOC again hosts 
a meet on November 16 and then in the 
last meet of the semester, on December 3 
and 4, near Richmond, Virginia in the 
United States Orienteering Championships.
Although the club is funded by the Stu
dent Senate, club members travel to the 
away meets at their own expense. Senate 
funds are used only for equipment and for 
home meet supplies. Anyone is welcome 
to participate in any club activity. The 
club is open to the entire University com
munity.
If you are interested in learning more 
about Orienteering, the club or attending 
any of the meets you should contact Ron 
Pontius at Beta Theta Pi. 621-7064.
SAE Rolling
AT5-TRzk hwH LdKz ?W
horses and ran for their first score. Pick
ering set up SAEs next score to Schott. 
The Beta defense reared up and sacked 
Fountain for a safety, to make the halftime score 14-9. Schiffman scored again 
to make it a surprising 21-9. Betas 
Klaiber worked well under pressure find
ing Kaufmann and running behind his 
super blocking, and suddenly it was 22-21, 
Beta.
Now the excitement began. Pickering 
made a nice catch to make it SAE by 
27-22. Beta came right back to make it 
29-27. Fountain found Jim Schiffman again to make the final tally SAE 33, Beta 
29; as the SAE defense was finally able to 
shut down the Beta offense.
ATO regained its composure in prep
aration for the playoffs and destroyed 
the Glorified Plumbers.
AT5-TRzk hwH LdKz ?W
Conners Division
TEAMWONLOST
Phi Kappa Theta50
Delta Upsilon42
Sigma Alpha Epsilon42
GSIA Managers42
The Four Loves32
Arpe, Nets04
Pi Kappa Alpha05
Borg Division
TEAMWONLOST
Sex Pistols* 70
GSIA Bucks61
Triangles42
Slugs23
Team X13
Kappa Sigma03
Faculty04
Zeta Beta Tau05
X-COUNTRY
by Marty Liquori
Greg Keyes took home top honors 
in the recent I.M. Cross Country meet 
with a record-smashing time of 9:55 
over the nearly two-mile course. Keyes, 
running for Allies, bested teammate
Roy Parkers one year record of 10:40 
by 45 seconds.
Allies ran to the team title by placing 
six runners in the top ten finishers. Coach 
Dave Maloney's Basketball-A team placed 
second in the team competition, followed 
by ZBT, SAE, and Basketball B.
The top ten finishers were as follows:
1.Key es( Allies) 9:55
2.Abbott(Basketball-A) 10:15
3.Zuilhoff(Basketball-A) 10:45
4.Landis(Allies) 10:50
5. Vanatta( Allies) 10:52
6. Parker( Allies) 10:57
7.Carlin( Allies) 10:58
8 .Shirley( Allies) 11:15
9.Marcucci(ZBT) 11:30
10.Gravel(Independent) 11:32
The overall times for the record 36
participants were much improved over
the past few years.
We have a few openings in the vineyard. Come labor with us. The hours are long. The pay is low. All we promise is opportunity to help others and a quiet pride in your work. A few people will even thank you. One will be eternally grateful. His name is God.
If interested in studying for the Catholic Priesthood, contact: Father O'Toole, 
Pittsburgh Diocese, 111 Blvd. of the Allies, 15222 or call 412-256-3070.
CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE 
1:00 - 5:00 PM Daily
SKIBO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

page 20T ART ANOctober 18, 1977SPORTSTECH STILL PERFECT IN PAC PLAY
(reprinted from Sundays Pittsburgh Press)
CLEVELAND High-flying Carnegie-MelIon had its wings shaved by John Carroll 
yesterday, but the Tartans were able to 
limp in with a 7-0 victory.
The Tartans, now 4-0 in the Presidents 
Conference and 5-1 overall, had averaged 
nearly 40 points a game since losing their 
opener to California. John Carroll is winless, in last place in the PAC.
CMU put together a 71-yard drive, 
mostly on the ground, on its second pos
session in the first quarter for the touch
down. Fullback Gary Bonn, who gained 
79 yards on 15 carries, scored from the 
two.
After that it became a scoreless stand
off, John Carroll stymied by CMUs de
fense and CMU frustrated by its own mis
takes.
CMU tried only eight passes, connecting 
on three for 33 yards and having one inter
cepted. The Plaid also lost the ball three 
times on fumbles.
The CMU fumbles all seemed to come at 
the worst time. The most disheartening was
a pitchout it let get away at the John Car
roll four-yard line.
CMU was penalized only three times for 
35 yards and two of the crimes came when t 
it had again reached the Blue Streaks four.
CMU outgained John Carroll in total 
yardage, 286-127, with Rick Leeman lead
ing the Tartans rushing with 83 yards on 
16 carries. Hohn Carroll got into CMU ter
ritory only once and never threatened.
This Saturday Allegheny visits the Tech 
field to decide the P.A.C. championship. 
Carnegie Mellon can clinch at least a tie for 
the PAC crown with a win over the Gators.
Jf'
>tly on the ground, on its second pos- the worst time. The most disheartening was the PAC crown with a win over the Gators. vVOLLEYERS DROP FAYETTE A ZJ -
by Gordon Morrison
The Carnegie-Mellon Universitys Wo
mens Volleyball team won one and lost 
one in this weeks action, to make their re
cord 2-1. C-MU beat Penn Sate (Fayette 
Campus) on Tuesday and lost to the always 
tough Indiana University of Pa. on Thurs
day.
Fayette has a team which was greatly 
improved over last years team, but did not 
seem to provide any more competition for 
the team than a practice game. C-MU only 
seemed to try at the very beginning of each 
game and then coasted the rest of the way 
for the first two games. In the third game, 
Miss Jane Fisk, the C-MU coach, substitu
ted for the starting six and the game was 
close, but never really seemed to get away 
from C-MU. The game scores were 15-7, 
15-6, 15-11. The second team match pro
vided one close game and two very one 
sided games. The first game was close, with 
Fayette winning 15-10. The second game 
was won easily by C-MU by the score of 
15-0. The deciding game was won by PSUF 
15-2.
The match with Indiana is usually the 
highlight of the C-MU season. IUP is pro
bably the toughest team to face C-MU this 
year, so the C-MU team always plays well. 
This year was no exception. In the first 
game, C-MU looked very nervous and not 
warmed up yet while IUP jumped out to a 
5-0 lead on the very first serve of the game. 
C-MU was only able to come as close as
14-12 before IUP finally managed to win. 
In the second game, IUP was again in com
mand and won easily 15-7. In the third 
game, C-MU came out and was really 
ready to show how well they could play. 
C-MU started out by opening up a lead of 
five points at 7-2, and managed to keep 
that lead until they were ahead 14-9. IUP 
seemed determined to play only three 
games in the best of five matches when 
they scored the next five points to tie the 
game at 14. C-MU then fought back and 
scored the points needed to win the game 
at 16-14. The fourth game was an exciting 
match with the lead changing hands four 
times. IUP took the lead at 14-10 and 
looked like they were going to win. C-MU
WOMEN TAKE SECOND
by Lynn Ritter
The CMU womens field hockey team 
wrapped up league play with a 5-2 victory 
over Washington and Jefferson. The 
offense was powerful and kept pounding 
away at the W & J defense. Goals were 
scored by M.J. Smith(3), Ingrid Goedicke, and Crystal Hoffman. Irene Hobbs 
played a strong game at halfback. The 
previous week CMU beat Chatham by the 
score of 2-0 with goals by Ruth Kaufman
and M.J. Smith.
Bethany defeated CMU 4-0 in a game 
where nothing seemed to go right.
CMU ended up 4-2 in overall league 
play for second place in the conference 
(behind Bethany). This week will bring 
a co-ed scrimmage against Penn StateFayette and a game against Indiana Uni
versity of Pa. on Thursday at home 
(3 PM) that will close out the season. 
Don't miss your last chance to see the 
field hockey team in action this year!
Booters Victorious
by Eusebio
The CMU soccer team, playing on a 
field that resembled a pig sty, dropped host 
W&J 2-0 for their second win of the 
season.
The game, played in a constant down
pour with temperatures just above the 
freezing point, was marred by play that 
was as sloppy as the field conditions. In
deed it was hapless W&J who seemed to be 
on the offensive for most of the first half, 
with the CMU defense lucky to come away 
with a 0-0 deadlock at the intermission.
Sophomore Craig Watanabe made what 
turned out to be the play of the game with 
about 15 minutes remaining in the first 
half. With goalie John Hawkins caught out 
of position and the ball loose in the 
penalty area, W&J forward Dave Vivian 
shot what seemed to be the apparent tie 
breaker, but Watanabe dove and, in mid
air, headed the destined goal clear of the
net.
In a continuing trend, the Tartans came 
out for the, second half breathing fire. The 
incessant assault on the opposing net 
finally paid off at the 24th minute of the 
second half as freshman Carl Pavelko beat 
the W&J goalie with a shot to the far side 
of the Presidents net. Ten minutes later it 
was captain Keith Hordatt who, breaking a 
personal season long slump, tallied on a 
hard shot from 15 yards to close out the 
scoring for the evening.
Goalie Hawkins playing well considering 
the conditions, picked up his second shut
out of the season. The CMU defense, made 
up of fullbacks George Canepa, Bob Sikora 
and Tom Meagher, has been very instru
mental in play which has allowed but 13 
goals in six games this year.
The Tech squad finishes out their home 
schedule against always tough St. Vincent 
today before traveling to Hiram to take on 
the Terriers in a league contest on Friday.
won the serve back and then scored two 
straight points to come within two at
14-12. That is when the net became the 
deciding factor of the match. IUP hit a 
high, easy shot close to the net to a waiting 
C-MU player, then the ball just barely 
touched the net and went over the head of 
the opponent to give the serve back to IUP. 
IUP was not going to refuse any help and 
proceeded to win the fourth game and the 
match. The second team match also was 
very close with C-MU winning 15-12,9-15,
15-12.
The next home action for the CarnegieMellon team will be a quad meet with 
Point Park, Carlow, and Seton Hill on Sat
urday starting at ten oclock a.m. in the 
main gym.
SAE ON 
COMEBACK 
TRAIL
by Joseph Kozak
Moving into the final week of regular 
season play in intramural football, Coaches 
All-Stars sits atop the major league showing 
no losses. The All-Stars bumped Beta Theta 
Pi 33-19 in a game that saw All-Star QB 
Boron sprint 35 yards on the opening play 
from scrimmage to score six points. Boron 
connected to blocking back Mike Kulak for 
the next TD, then ran another, followed up 
by hitting top end Bill Scattaregia, and 
topped it off by catching a doublepass 
from Kulak. Betas top receiver was George 
Kaufmann. The Beta running game looked 
awesome, but was unable to score enough 
points to match the All-Stars.
SAE established itself as a serious con
tender for a playoff spot as they edged 
Beta in an exciting battle 33-29. SAE 
opened the game with a long bomb from 
Fountain to Schiffman. Beta fired up the 
AT5-TRzk T LdKz r,
cPu kzhzT.-Iz JdAY tdA cd-Tz Jdk d 0-K 
-T5zwAzL5-T dKd-T.5 pJT cdww(( T ld5Rwkd)U 
cPu 4T 5Jz kzhzT.-Iz .5wRKK(z 9WU
Intramurals
JOT THIS DOWN
CO REC VOLLEYBALL- Competition 
is underway during the week in the main 
gym.
WATER POLO- Competition has begun 
and schedules can be picked up in the I A!, 
office.
CHESS- Matches begin this week. 
Schedules are available in the I.M. office.
SOCCER- Six man soccer rosters are 
due today. Rosters are to be handed to 
Mr. Birdy in the IM. office in gymnasium. 
Rosters are to have at least 7 men but no 
more than 15 men.
VOLLEYBALL- Entries are due today 
for the I.M. volleyball league.
BOWLING- Competition began last Sat
urday with record turnout. Games are 
bowled at Strand lanes in Oakland at 10 
AM.
TEAM TABLE TENNIS- Schedules can 
be picked up in I.M. office.
3 PERSON VOLLEYBALL, DARTS, 
BACKGAMMON- Entries due November 
1st.
I.M. FOOTBALL STANDINGS
TEAMWONLOST
Coaches All Stars40
Alpha Tau Omega32
Sigma Alpha Epsilon32
C-Map A22
Pi Kappa Alpha23
Beta Theta Pi23
Glorified Plumbers04
I.M. TENNIS STANDINGS
AT5-TRzk T LdKz r,
Chess Corner
by Joseph Bartnicki
fcBE1
i
IBS
White to play and mate in 5 moves
aeul N xd S
XUB J X  >
g-a *iq o
9-8 -----e
suaiMJqi
98-d e
9JBIU IJsJlUSAdid OJ[
*d 'I 
..........I
5JOOJ aqi
uiuuid t-y * ' I SJU9A3Jd li 9DUIS 
3JBUI l-y uaqi S*I SU9JE3Jl|l Sim
frN-d I
:J3MSuy
