TARTAN
November 15,1977 Volume 78, Number 11 Carnegie-Mellon University Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213
Boiler explodes in Morewood Gardens
The % inch steel sides of the boiler burst during the explosion.
by Neil Emerson
A boiler explosion, Saturday November 
11 at 10:10 AM resulted from a 7^15% 
leakage of methane under the new boiler 
in the boiler room in the basement of 
Btower Morewood Gardens. It caused 
$10,000 damage. One of the three boilers 
had burst.
Because of the explosion, all Morewood 
residents were evacuated from the complex 
for two hours, until it was deemed safe to 
returri. According to a fire department 
source, the evacuation was swift. Many 
students were awakened from their sleep, 
and went outside in the 30 degree snowy 
weather in their nightclothes.
'Blast caused by, 
methane leakage'
According to Public Relations Direc
tor Ken Service, all heat and hot water 
services would be resumed since the other 
two boilers could handle the work.
However1, the Morewood Cafeteria has 
been closed, and all students employed
CMU Rhodesians' uneasiness explained
by Saul Carliner
Friday, November 4, some of the stu
dents in the SU PA-Rhodesian exchange 
program held a news conference to express 
their dissatisfaction with the program.
The students in this public management 
program, especially designed for them, 
stated that they believe the program is a 
t  plot by the West to establish pro-West
ern  puppets in power upon the transi
tion of power to majority rule in Rhodesia.
They added that many of the students 
in the program have no intention of'joining 
the public sector upon graduation, but 
rather/plan to use their new management 
knowledge in private industry.
Press gives faulty coverage
According to SU PA Dean Otto Davis, 
much of the dissatisfaction arises over press 
Coverage of the program.
Davis said that  the press has not re
ported this as a non-political program. 
They have made conjectures, connecting 
[companies] to the program.
Earlier this year, the TARTAN reported 
that Allegheny Ludlum Steel Corporation 
took an interest in the program. It was im
plied that this interest stemmed from 
Ludlums desire for a friendly government 
in Rhodesia, so that trade would be pos
sible with the mineral-rich country.
Davis commented that the $25,000 
donation by Allegheny Ludlum  wont 
buy much chrome; it 11 just educate a few 
students. Their contribution only com
prises 5% of the program budget, which 
Davis disclaims as an  investment in the 
future of that country.
Radio broadcasts create fear
The program has also received adverse
Seniors assured of housing
by Brian Byrnes
Contrary to reports, President Cyert is 
confident that enough housing will be pro
vided for all students next year.
Many juniors have become concerned 
over reports in the TARTAN that they 
may be denied housing next year. Cyert 
said in a recent interview that he is as 
concerned about housing as [these juniors] 
are. I dont want seniors kicked out [next 
year]
Cyert explained that the recent housing 
shortage is due to a sharp increase in the 
number of students wanting housing. 
Eighty-percent of students, according to 
Cyert, are now asking for on-campus 
housing, as opposed to fifty-percent a few 
years ago.
We dont know how to plan (housing 
growth), stated Cyert. There will be 
fewer high school students in the 80s, but
we expect our enrollment to stay high. We 
dont want to build dorms and have empty 
spaces in them.
Cyert is certain that the new dorm is 
necessary. He has set a realistic date for 
completion at January 1979, as opposed to 
the September 1978 opening originally 
planned.
If the housing shortage continues, Cyert 
might consider leasing or buying an apart
ment [building]. Cyert dislikes this and 
also dislikes placing students in Webster 
Hall Hotel. He calls these emergency tem
porary tactics which will not solve the 
problem.
Not all schools have a housing shortage, 
and even some have an overabundance of 
rooms. Cyert cited Case Western Reserve, 
which is selling some of its dormitories be
cause of the large number of vacancies in 
rooms.
publicity in Africa. Students in the CMU 
program have received reports that Radio 
Moputo, in Mozambique, is broadcasting 
stories criticizing the program. These radio 
reports have gone as far as citing names of 
individuals involved in the program.
Since one of the major Rhodesian guer
illa movements is based in Mozambique, 
people interpret this as a threat to the 
families of students in the program, es
pecially since names were mentioned. 
Davis said that he is afraid for these stu
dents, and is trying to reassure them.
Because the fear has become so real, one 
student opted to return home, last Thurs
day.
The guerilla party based in Mozambique 
also happens to be the one party that CMU 
representatives could not make contact 
with when they went to Rhodesia to set up 
the program, after several attempts. Davis 
said that later on, someone identifying 
himself as a party representative did con
tact the CMU people, to inform them that 
no representatives of his party were involv
ed in the program.
Davis refutes party claim
Davis refuted this claim, adding that 
since the program is non-political, ques
tions about political affiliation could 
not be asked when students were applying 
to the program.
On the political question, Davis said 
that this is not a program by the West to 
provide a pro-Western contingent. It is to 
provide well-trained people.
He added that were not so unsophis
ticated to believe that theyII buy our 
politics.
Besides the one student who left the 
program, Davis stated that no one else has 
expressed ideas of leaving. However, 
there is a group of uptight students.
He expects the program to go through 
to completion in May. Besides, the 
 gripes about the press coverage of the 
program, there have been no other com
plaints, Davis concluded.
there have been re-assigned temporarily.
Service later explained that- the boiler 
probably could not be repaired and would 
have to be replaced.
A spot inspection of the damage showed 
that the % inch thick steel sides of the 
boiler had split off, the heavy steel valve 
had cracked in half, and the room was 
flooding with water from the automatic 
fire extinguishers.
Commenting on the rapid evacuation of 
of the dormitory, a man from security, 
who cared to remain anonymous, said that 
it took us three minutes to get here and 
the building was already cleared out. 
Roy Parker, 5E Tower Resident 
Assistant, added, It was really good that 
everyone got out fast. He continued 
that if the whole boiler system exploded, 
there would be no more BTower. 
Fire Chief CP. Harris also said that 
there would have been flash fires if the 
leakage had been over 15%.
"The fire alarms 
did not operate"
Despite the fast evacuation, and the 
limited damage to persons and property, 
there were complications. Several people 
reported that the fire alarms were not 
operating.
Carolyn Welty, a Morewood resident, 
said that she was going out to the parking 
lot, when some of the women from More
wood kitchen came running at. Carolyn 
returned to the building, with her boy
friend, Chris Moriondo, to set off the fire 
alarms. They tried the alarm on the first 
floor of each tower, and the second floor 
C-Tower, and found that only two pro
duced a gong, in A and D towers,
Jamie Silverman, of D-Tower, con
firmed this, saying that she heard an alarm 
go off, and left the building, but there were
continued on page 3inside
"lews...
Senate to hold blood drive (pg.3)
UFO reports good rush (pg.10)
Morewood cafeteria to receive facelift 
( Pg- 2)
entertainment...
Cotton and May all reviewed (pg. 15) 
Looking for Mr. Goodbar (pg. 18)
sports...
Tartanettes Take Championship (pg. 22) 
Football Photos (pg. 23)
rolio...
FOLIO boggles your mind ( pg. 11)

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2TARTANNovember 15, 1977
Morewood Cafeteria to get facelift
by Linda Deak
A project to renovate the Morewood 
Cafeteria has been approved recently by 
the Capital Projects Control Committee, 
stated Bill Dillon. Director of Auxiliary
Services.
Just how extensively the project will 
be carried out is not yet known, for the 
University plans to obtain a professional 
assessment from an architectural firm.
NEWS BRIEFS
Smoking prohibited in DH 2270
Stemming from a complaint lodged in and to ease the housekeeping problems
created by smoking.
The memo also requests that each stu
dent group sponsoring a film in DH 2210 
announce the smoking ban before each 
film. Security has been asked to stop in on 
each showing to make sure the students 
heed the prohibition.
The Universitys disciplinary code pro
vides that smoking in restricted areas is 
punishable by a fine of $100 (if a safety 
hazard is involved) otherwise a fine not to
the presidents office, Dean Swank ordered 
in a memo dated November 2 that, effec
tive immediately, smoking be prohibited in 
Doherty Hall 2210 for the showing of films 
and large lectures.
In an interview last Tuesday, Swank said 
he was unaware that students smoked dur
ing the movies and that the NO SMOKING 
signs that he had ordered posted were not.
The reason the ban exists is to protect 
against fire hazards, avoid health problemsexceed $25.Scotch 'n' Soda to present plays
Scotch n Soda will present its first 
production of the 1977-78 season, Thurs
day, November 17, 8:00 PM in the Wherrett Room, Skibo. Admission is free, 
but passes for the performance must be 
picked up through the Skibo Information 
Desk, due to limited seating.
The production will include three 
original one-act plays, written by CMU 
students, including Jacqueline Susann
Died Over the Weekend by David 
Sheward, Right Place, Wrong Time by 
Jim Waldfogle, and Stormy Nights by 
Matt Sweigart.
According to Sewigart, Scotch n 
Soda President, these plays will not boast 
elaborate sets or props, for they are. pro
duced with the intent of giving writers 
exposure.
Scotch n Soda is the drama group 
on campus for non-drama majors.
before coming to a decision.
Dillon approximated that it would 
take $150,000 just to replace the existing 
kitchen equipment and tables in the 
cafeteria. Director of Food Service, John 
Eichmuller, added, if fixtures were to 
be replaced, we would also have to con
sider redoing plumbing and electrical 
work. And adding air conditioning would 
cause our total cost to skyrocket.
The renovation project has two main 
objectives: to increase both the speed of 
service and also the seating capacity in 
the Morewood Cafeteria. Eichmuller feels 
there should be no reason why students 
should wait in line for twenty minutes at 
peak times to be served. The cafeteria 
sometimes experiences an influx of over 
700 customers, but can only seat 300.
Morewood operation to remain
Although it has been rumored that the 
Morewood Cafeteria would be phased out, 
with Skibo to handle food contracts, 
Eichmuller feels that this is unlikely. 
For this to happen, Skibo would have to 
increase its capacity almost threefold. 
The cost of renovating Morewood Cafeteria 
would probably be half the cost of building 
an addition to Skibo.
Dillon suggested that the idea to permit 
a franchise to operate within Morewood 
is also under consideration. Many other 
schools rely on popular franchises, such 
as McDonalds or Pancake Kitchen for the 
bulk of their food service, so this idea 
is not a rare one. Eichmuller doubts 
the success of such a venture, for CMJ 
lacks the volume to attract or support 
a franchise.
Limit Morewood to contract holders?
The idea has surfaced to make More
wood a residence hall for only those on 
food contract. Dillon comments that, 
present Morewood residents fall into 
two categories, either they want a better 
cafeteria, or they want new kitchens in 
the residence floors. If the University 
were to give them both, it would be 
unfair to other residents. Morewood, being 
a primarily female area, has gotten Special 
attention in the past, but the fconvenience of an integral cafeteria should go 
to those especially holding food con
tracts, Dillon added.
????????????
The SDC space
by Stephanie Waite
At the last SDC meeting, held October 
6, Resident Directors Corey Chase and 
Claudia Geraci attempted to clear up mis
conceptions about their role in the 
dormitory system.
Corey Chase explained, Claudia ;md I 
are not students. We are professionals with 
degrees in higher education, and we are 
very student oriented, which many faculty 
and administrators are not. We are SDC 
advisors, and we also act as advisors to 
various people with different problems. 
In his officers report, President Sam 
Grego brought up several issues. Dean 
Swank has asked council to come up with 
a definition of exces:ive noise in the 
dorms. Swank has suggested that if one 
can hear noise in a room that is two rooms 
away, this noise is excessive.
Grego also asked for volunteers for two 
subcommittees that Auxiliary Services 
Director Bill Dillon is -forming. The two 
committees include: one on lounges,
dorm activities, and recreation, and one on 
Student Government Representation, 
which would deal with the hierarchy of 
student organizations.
The Social Committee announced that 
there will be a semiformal dance December 
3, featuring the group Smile.
Money was allocated to have Kenny 
Donnelly from Maintenance build two 
pmg-pong tables, one for Donner, and one 
for Doherty House.
SDC supplies typewriter, sewing 
machine, and darkroom facilities to dorm 
residents. Keys can be obtained from the 
following people:
Morewood machine room (2 sewing 
machines, 1 typewriter)
8 AM to 5 PM Housing Office 
5 PM to 11 PM Morewood Secretary, or 
Carolyn Welty 
Hamerschlag (1 sewing machine, 1 type
writer)
Ken Goldfarb, B- 119 
Donner Darkroom
Corey Chase, Donner 100 
Sam Grego, Donner 132
GIVE BLOOO-NOV. 16 AND 17-SKIBO 11,12
Bomb threat shuts building
by Al Hall
An anonymous phone-caller made a 
bomb threat Saturday afternoon that 
was responsible for the shut-down of 
the Margaret Morrison building until 
Monday morning.
According to Dave Valia, a Security 
employee, a secretary working at C-MAP 
received a call from a man who said that 
a bomb had been planted in the SUPA 
lounge in honor of Zimbabwe Liberation 
Day. The Pittsburgh police were called
in and the building was evacuated. A search 
for the bomb turned up nothing.
Margaret Morrison remained closed for 
the rest of Saturday and all day Sunday 
under orders from President Cyert.
People inconvenienced by the evacu
ation and shut down included architec
ture students,  preparing for juries, 
held before Thanksgiving, drama students, 
who rehearse and use the costume shop 
in MM ;SUPA students; and those involved 
with C-MAP.
Is there a GAP in your budget this Christmas? If so, come down to the GAP store, 
located at 201 Fifth Avenue in downtown Pittsburgh, and fill out a job application! The 
GAP is a Levi's oriented store, now accepting job applications for the Christmas season. 
We are looking for individuals who can work day and nightime hours. Experience is 
preferred but not necessary. The salary is $2.50 an hour. So FALL INTO THE GAP, and fill 
the GAP in our wallet this Christmas!
NO PHONE CALLS PLEASEl
An EOE Employer.9op
a
HOW DO WE RATE?
Fill out a Food Service Questionnaire tonight at dinner.

---------------------------------------------------

Senate murmursBoiler explodes in Morewood Gardens
by Linda Deak
The Senate meeting, held November 8, 
consisted mostly of a superficial discussion 
on the blood drive, the new Law Club, and 
Senates role in funding athletic clubs.
Steve Belanich asked senators to help 
 out at the blood drive, November 16 & 17.
Although many of the senators were dis
appointed that they would not be able to 
work with needles, they promised to 
appear in rooms 11, 12 (Skibo) for the 
Central Blood Banks annual drive. Stu
dents are aked to devote fifteen minutes 
between the hours of 2 and 8, either day, 
V to donate a pint of blood. If the party 
spirit is running through your veins, donat
ing blood or attempting to donate blood 
will guarantee an entrance pass to a party 
funded by Senate.
The CMU Law Club, organized within 
the AMS department was recognized as a 
non-supported so that they will be able to 
hold meeting. The Law Club had originally 
requested to be recognized as supported, 
but this decision has been postponed until 
Senate reviews its fiscal policy.
Roussos is concerned with the plausi
bility of the Senate subsidizing the athletic 
department in its funding of athletic clubs. 
The Baseball Club presented a budget of 
over $5,000, which was tabled by the 
^Finance Committee until further investiga), Won.
The positon of Senate Treasurer is open, 
along with 20 seats in the various consti
tuencies. Senate elections are being held 
this Thursday and Friday. If you are in
terested in running, but have not submitted 
a petition and are subsequently not in the 
ballot, run as a write-in candidate, advised 
John Lubon.
continued from page 1
only four other people out there. Jamie 
continued, adding that the alarms did not 
ring in certain towers.
Anne Goldhammer, of C-Tower said 
that someone had to go around alerting all 
residents in the other towers to evacuate.
Carolyn said that the Food Service em
ployees had set off an alarm in the kitchen, 
but only rang at the Morewood Desk, 
which is unattended at that time. Carolvn 
said that she called Security,but they 
didnt sound the least bit interested. She 
said that she heard a maintenance em
ployee comment that he had turned off 
the gas, and then left the scene before the 
firemen came.
The Food Service employee who set 
off the alarm, Alice Vattimer, said that she 
heard a bang, a door burst open, and kept 
opening and closing. She then set off the 
alarm.
Carolyn said that she also heard the 
bang, explaining that it shook the whole 
building.
The blast also shook plans for campus 
activities scheduled for Saturday, Mark
Lewis and Debbie Mall, from the Admis
sions Office, said that campus tours for 
CMU Open House were cut short. Visits to 
dormitories were left out.
Also, several persons living outside the 
Morewood area received surprise visits 
from friends. One girl said that she had to 
leave while in the shower, so she went over 
to her friend in Donner to borrow a hair 
dryer.
Despite all the inconveniences, cause by 
the explosion, one student commented, 
Were lucky none got hurt, and it wasnt 
worse.
Morewood resident Vera Saidjad explained that at first 
I thought it was a false alarm." Later she left her room, and 
went outside to the snowy weather in her night clothes.
SPRING 1978 REGISTRATION 
NOVEMBER 16-17, 1977
Class Schedules will be available November 4 after 12 noon at the In
formation Desk, Skibo, and at the Public Relations Office, Baker Hall 
160.
STUDENT INSTRUCTIONS FOR 
REGISTRATION
C.I.T. and M.I.S. freshmen have received special instructions on regis
tration from Dean Kail and should not participate in registration on 
November 16 and 17. H&SS freshmen and sophomores have received 
instructions from the Academic Advisory Center BH 161 and should 
report there for registration information.
All other students must register on November 16 and 17 according to 
the following instructions:
A.
B.
C.
D.
F.
G.
Obtain a Class Order Form from your department office.
Discuss your Spring course schedule with your advisor and 
complete the Class Order Form. Your advisor will approve your 
schedule by signing the Class Order Form immediately below 
the last course listed.
Your advisor will also provide you with your packet of class 
cards. You will need one card for each course.
Complete the course section and unit portion of the class cards 
and take one to each department offering the particular course 
in which you wish to register and ask approval for registration. 
Department locations are in the class schedule. If approved, the 
department will keep your class card.
If you are unable to gain entrance into one (or more) of the de
sired courses, have your advisor approve an alternate course. 
Repeat steps D and E until you have successfully registered for 
all courses.
After you have received department approval for each course by 
presenting a class card, deliver the yellow copy of the Class Or
der Form to your department. The white copy is your receipt.
Because new or special students will soon be registering for 
courses which are now available to you, it is important to reg
ister for your total program now.
In December, you will receive a confirmation listing all of the 
courses for which you have registered.
JVC builds in what the others leave out.
mgrn BDlf
JVCs three new top-of-the-line receivers feature the exclusive S E A. 5-zone 
graphic equalizer system to give you complete command ot the music spectrum from low lows to high highs. Lets 
you custom tailor your sound.
JVC S600 II AM/FM Stereo Receiver.
JVC's best. 120 watts/ch. min. RMS, 8 ohms, 20-20,000 Hz, with no more than 0.08% total harmonic distortion. 
Exclusive S.E.A. graphic equalizer 5- zone tone control.
JVC S400 II AM/FM Stereo Receiver.
Everything you want in a receiver. Exclusive S E A. graphic equalizer 80 watts/ch mm. RMS, 8 ohms, 20-20,000
Hz, with no more than 0 08% total 
harmonic distortion.
JVC S300 II AM/FM Stereo Receiver. 
This power house delivers 50 watts/ ch. min. RMS, 8 ohms, 20-20,000 Hz, 
with no more than 0.1% total harmonic distortion. S.E.A. 5-zone graphic equalizer. S EA. Record switch.
JVC S200 II AM/FM Stereo Receiver. 
35 watts/ch min. RMS, 8 ohms, 20-
20.000 Hz, with no more than 0.5% total harmonic distortion.
JVC SI00 II AM/FM Stereo Receiver. 
20 watts/ch. min RMS, 8 ohms, 40-20.000 Hz, with no more than 0.5% total harmonic distortion.
ADD ANY OF THESE GREAT JVC COMPONENTS 
TO A JVC RECEIVER FOR AN UNBEATABLE SYSTEM.
JVC KD-35 Cassette Deck witk Dolby.
Exclusive Sen-Alloy head, 5 LED peak level indicators. Bias/EQ switches Auto-stop. Connect a timer and record, when youre not there.
JVC KD-S200II Cassette Oeck. Unique 
JVC Super ANRS reduces tape hiss. 5 peak-reading LEDs. Sen-Alloy head. Automatic stop. Bias/EQ switches. Absentee recording when connected to timer.
JVC JL-F30 Fully Automatic Turntable.
Automatic tonearm lead-in, return and shutoff. Repeat play from one to six 
times, or continuously. Beli-drive motor. Oil damped cueing. Anti-skate, 2 speeds Base & dust cover.
JVC JL-FSO Fully Automatic DirectDrive Turntable Up front controls for operation with dust cover closed Automatic lead-in, return and shutoff. One thru six replays, or continuous 
Speed control. Anti-skate 2 speeds 
Base & dust cover
JVC SK 1000 3 Way Speaker System.
New Phase Moire technology Solid bass blend with smooth midrange and crisp highs Mid & high frequency con
trols. 170 watts (peak), 85 watts RMSJVC
Available at these 
JVC Spotlight dealers 
AFC ELECTRONICS 5924 Penn Mall, Pittsburgh  AFC ELEC
TRONICS 4814 McKmght road, Pittsburgh # CAR HOME 
STEREO 197 Morgantown St. Uniontown  CAR HOME STEREO 
1725 Mileground, Morgantown  SOUNDWORLO 168 West 
Madison Avenue, Rochester  SOUNDWORLO McKnight Seibert 
Shopping Center, Pittsburgh  SOUNDWORLD 2967 West Lioerty Avenue, Pittsburgh  SOUNDWORLD Allegheny Center Mall 
Terrace. Pittsburgh  SOUNDWORLO 3519 Forbes Avenue, Pitt
sburgh  SOUNDWORLO 620 Alpha Drive, Pittsburgh 

---------------------------------------------------

c WATHAT- K ' Q 2/ iaUiw-j^! Page 4-TART ANNow rr1 Cv r77
"Why am I running for Senate?"Senate candidates reply
CARL FETTEROLL
AMS
1 am running for re-election because I 
want to get elected again. I was a member 
of Rules committee and Academic Affairs 
committee of Student Senate during the 
past year. While on Academic Affairs 
I worked hard for more student inputs 
on department decisions. I recently 
made a motion (sometimes referred to 
as the Fetteroll Bill) to put pressure on the 
Music Department to review their decision 
to phase out Music Education. There were 
no student inputs which was a gross misjustice, and this poor decision making pro
cess (rig^it out of O.B.) should be looked 
at by all other departments as a way of 
how decisions should not be made.
CHRIS DEVEAU 
CFA
The only reason anyone should run 
for Student Senate is interest. I am pre
sently filling a vacancy in Senate and think 
that as an acting major I help to round out 
the group. I am definitely outspoken and 
support the student body as a whole. 
Being a freshman I havent been disallusionedyet. Definite changes should 
be made and I would like to be a cause of 
them.
DONNA GRIFFIN
CFA - WRITE IN
Today, we often view people and things 
categorically, forgetting that the groups 
and organizations consist of unique individ
ual members. So, it is important that we 
sincerely utilize the opportunities open to 
us, which provide a channel for communi
cation and unification between individuals 
and groups. The opportunity provided by 
Student Senate is my reason for running.
I am running as a write-in candidate, so my 
name does not appear on the ballot.
J.W. HINSDALE
CFA - WRITE IN
Will you elect me? That is not the ques
tion, but rather, why will you elect me? 
Because I, J.W. Hinsdale, promise to flush 
out corruption, incompetence, and misma
nagement. I will dispose of the waste in 
Student Senate completely, unequivocably.
I smell a foul odor in Student Senate and
Im out to clean-up. So, at the polls, re
member J.W. Hinsdale, An American 
Standard of Excellence.
DANIEL A. CORDES
CIT
I am running for Student Senate be
cause that it is the duty of every student 
to contribute to the well-being of the stu
dent body. Some people contribut by 
working on the TARTAN or by working 
for Student Government Corporation. 
Others contribute by working for Food 
Service or the Library. My way to contri
bute is to serve on Student Senate. I have 
had several years of experience in com
mittee and governmental work and wish 
to continue to use my knowledge in this 
area to the benefit of the student body. 
I am currently Chairman of the Finance 
Committee and would wish to continue to 
serve in this position if re-elected.
CHRIS RUSSELL
CIT
Student Government is in need of eager, 
well-informed senators. I am a junior 
double-majoring in electrical engineering 
and AMS, a member of ATO and active 
member of the Christian Community on 
campus. I am sincerely concerned about 
the varied interests of both the individual 
student and the numerous organizations at 
Carnegie-Mellon. Having been appointed by 
Senate to serve the last month of this ses
sion in one of CITs seats, I have seen the 
workings of the government, like it and 
desire to serve in this capacity on a full
time basis. Your vote for me will be both 
well-used and much appreciated.
JOHN TUMAZOS
GSIA
GSIA should continue to strive for aca
demic excellence while fulfilling its obliga
tions to the University community. My 
undergraduate experience at CMU provides 
me with insights into campus institutions 
that will help make me an effective sen
ator.
ANTHONY JUNCO
H&SS
Why Im running for student senate is
a good question.: one for which I have no 
dazzling or brilliant answer. Due to my 
aspirations to become a lawyer, govern
mental and leadership positions just natually appeal to me. I believe that being a 
student senator requires nothing more than 
a reasonable intellect and, more impor
tantly, a sincere interest in university and 
student affairs. I think I have the first 
quality, as demonstrated by my being a 
part of the university, and my submission 
of canidacy should be representative of 
my interest. Thank you.
JARY PETKOVICH
H&SS
Im running for Student Senate in 
H&SS. There have been many vacancies 
in Senate for the 3 years Ive been here, 
and Im tired of hearing complaints that 
Senate doesnt do anything. I want to 
take an active part in campus activities, in 
planning better parties, notifying students 
of their campus rights, and making sure 
that the student voice is heard and res
pected by the administration i.e. longer 
school year!
DAVID G. ROUSSOS
H&SS
The student of the College of Humani
ties and Social Sciences faces many unique 
problems simply because on this campus 
H&SS is a unique college. As an H&SS 
student, I feel I am in tune to the identity
crisis and other problems my college is 
experiencing. As a student senator with 
experience as the Academic Affairs Comm
ittee Chairperson and most recently as the 
Chairperson of the Student Senate.I believe 
I am capable to work toward the needed 
solutions.
JIM CARR
MIS
Besides the matter of managing student 
funds, I believe that the proper role of Sen
ate is that of a consumer advocate. In this 
respect I believe that Senate has let the stu
dent body down. Perhaps it is unfair to 
shoulder the blame entirely on Senate, for 
we have a campus unparalleled for its stu
dent apathy. This might be changed should
Senate aggressively investigate tuition hikes 
and academic affairs. If you care about 
your money and education, and you 
should, vote for JIM CARR for student 
Senate (MIS).
JOSEPH W. GIBBS *
MIS -WRITF IN
I believe that the MIS reps should give 
the fullest service to our constituency, the 
people of the natural sciences. Too long 
has our number been maligned.
TOM ENGELMANN 
MIS
As a current member of the Student 
Senate, I believe I represent the interests ^ 
of those who have little or no association 
with most student organizations. My affil
iation with the finance committee has per
mitted me to speak against the funding of 
those activities which reach only a small 
percentage of the student body. If re
elected, I will continue to act in favor of 
programs which are readily accessible to 
all students and will take actions to bring 
about the establishment of a voluntary 
activities fee.
SCOTT MILLER 
MIS
Being a Senator means alot to me and I 
would like to have the opportunity to 
show you, the Student Body, what I can 
do for you. Besides having experience in 
student government throughout my educa
tion, I feel I can best serve you because I ^ 
am a freshman. As a freshman I am not 
obligated to any special groups or organi
zations. I am also unaffected by the general 
feeling of apathy on our campus so I will 
work hard for you. If you want equal re
presentation for all, vote SCOTT MILLER 
and I will represent you, the Student Body, 
as equally as possible.
ELLIOT OHLBERG
MIS
I joined Student Senate earlier this term 
and like what I see. Hopefully, once a 
complete Senate gets elected (or re
elected!) some concrete goals of Senate 
can be set in motion. Im not in this for 
the sake of being one of those prestigious 
people who allocate $110,000. Student 
Senate should be doing much more in ^ 
effectively presenting student views on 
University affairs.
Those pictured are on the ballot 
for Student Senate. The names of 
prospective senators who have not 
submitted a picture or statement 
also appear on the ballot. Any full 
time student is eligible as a writein candidate.
DAN CORDESMIKE INNERS (MIS)JIM CARRCHRIS DEVEAU
DAVID G. ROUSSOSCHRIS RUSSELLELLIOT OHLBERGT.J. JUNCOTOM ENGELMANN

---------------------------------------------------

November 15, 1977-TARTAN-Page 5
IFood policies explained
by Belinda Quan
Students often complain that the prices 
are too high in the Tartan Grill, that the 
Bakery-Deli is not open to contract hold
ers, that freshman cannot drop food con
tract and the Vegetarian room in 
 Morewood is closed weekends. Food Ser
vice Director, John Eichmuller recently 
addressed these complaints.
The high prices of yogurt and packaged 
snacks sold at the Tartan Grill and Skibo 
result from the high cost of operations of 
-those cafeterias, according to Eichmuller.
Prices of items are set to help the 
cafeterias break even at the end of the 
year. Since the operating costs of the cafe
terias and supermarkets differ, the price of 
yogurt at Skibo is 60 cents while the price 
at the supermarket is only 45 cents. The 
fifteen cents reflects the difference in
RESEARCH
Send only two dollars (to cover postage) 
for your copy of our latest mail-order 
cataolg of over 7,000 research papers.
 Quality Unsurpassed
 Fast, Dependable Service
 Speeches, Reports, etc.
All Materials Sold For fUseorch Assistance Only
RESEARCH LIMITED, INC.
^3V^ Sylvan Street 
Rutherford, New Jersey 07070 
201-939-1300
costs.
When asked why the Tartan Grill 
(during lunch) and the Bakery-Deli does 
not accept meal cards, Eichmuller replied 
that they would not be able to handle the 
large number of contract holders and pay
ing customers who would eat there. '
Eichmuller said that Freshmen cannot 
drop their food contracts, because a drop 
in the number of food contracts would 
force Food Service to cut service. Since 
Food Service has a contract with an em
ployees union, it must maintain a certain 
size staff. That would be impossible if 
Food Service were forced to reduce service.
Mr. Eichmuller added that a new meal 
plan may be offered next year which 
would allow students to have a maximum 
number of points, less that nine points at 
Skibo.
He also explained that the Vegetarian 
room at Morewood is closed on weekends 
because the small number of people who 
eat there would not justify opening the 
room. It is costly to operate since it 
requires a separate cook and staff.
Food Service Director John Eichmuller explains Food Service policy.
Illusions 
Edi Lanners
lUutions is a magic journey through the world of 
visual tricks and creative fantasies that 
challenge our very perceptions of what is real. 
Lavishly illustrated, imaginatively designed, 
and wittily informed, it teases and amuses even 
as it expands our knowledge of the world and 
how we perceiveand often misperceiveit. 
Every page presents a new wonder: from optical 
illusions to tricks of typography, from computer 
graphics to puzzle pictures Here are rebuses, 
mirages, and after-images, anagrams, magic 
squares, and mad inventions. Even fairy tales 
and agitprop make their contribution, while 
serious philosophical speculation on the essence 
of illusion is juxtaposed with fanciful nonsense 
Mad, playful, and delicious, IUutiont is guaran
teed to offer hours of entertainment even as it 
opens new worlds to show the reality that lies 
behind illusionand the illusion that mocks 
reality.
CMU BOOKSTORE
Special Values SALE!Gals
 Fashion Jeans
in Denim & Cord 
Reg. $18 -$23
 Flannel L/S Shirts 
Reg. $14
Guys
 Gap Label Cords  
Flare & Boot Cut
* Fashion Jeans 
Reg. $16 & Up
$14.90
$10.90
$10.50
$13.90
 Flannel & Western Shirts
Reg. $14-$16 $10.90
Plus hundreds of other store-wide 
Special Values!
South Hills Village 
PITTSBURGH
201 -5th Avenue 
PITTSBURGH
MOWDf tTUESQR 9X&.mm'tAmm.
alliar S95
wrfa only
(At
VlERSOr*c>
I
Something new is happening at Emersons and its all good
NORTH HILLS4611 McKnight Road931-6707 
MONROEVILLE3500 William Penn Highway824-1440
Brazal ton

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN
Rats Overrun CMU
If a rat is dropped into water, after being confined to a 
bag and having had its whiskers dipped off, it will struggle 
briefly, trying to save itself, then give up and sink to the 
bottom to die. Because autopsies show that the cause of 
death is heart failure and not drowning, researchers believe 
that the rat chooses to die rather than flounder about 
ineffectually.
People, too, have been known to give up and give in 
when a situation offers them no choice and no opportunity 
for self-control. An article on sudden death in this months 
Psychology Today cites extreme cases. On the less extreme 
side, the article reports, people tend to become ill when 
they are made to feel helpless or out of control.
If there has been no research done on the effect of help
lessness on college students, the CMU campus would be an 
excellent place to begin such a study.
Here, researchers would find studentsrats, if you wish
in a variety of situations which offer no choice and no 
opportunity for self-control. Researchers might first turn 
their attention to the student who wrote last weeks pay or 
move letter. This student had been asked by Housing to 
pay an additional $57.50 to compensate for a third room
mate, who had moved out. The University gave the writer 
this ultimatum: pay the extra money or find another place 
to live. Given such a choice," this student qualifies easily 
for the helpless category.
Next, researchers might wish to move over to the Fine 
Arts building, where they can conduct a large-scale study on 
47 students. These 47 unfortunates, in the ill-fated Music 
Education program, have just had their major field of study 
swiped right out from under their feet. Its bad enough to 
be in a program that is virtually dissolving while they are 
trying to complete it, but it is immeasurably worse (though 
better, for purposes of our study) to have had this situation 
thrust upon them with no warning, no discussion, and, it 
seems, with no consideration for their futures.
To round out their study, we suggest that the researchers 
pick rats, er, students, at random and ask how they have 
been made helpless. Research will probably uncover bewil
dered students who find themselves in H&SS after being re
jected from Fine Arts (this situation is created by Admis
sions deplorable practice of telling applicants that, though 
they are unqualified to study, say, drama or art, they are 
qualified to study, say, English or psychology-and that 
they will have a better chance of being admitted to a tine 
arts discipline after they are already enrolled at CMU); and 
frustrated students who, lured here by CMUs excellent of
ferings in certain highly-specialized areas, find that they are 
discouraged from studying seriously anything outside of 
their own, tiny field. (Admittedly, many students graduate 
with double-majors and interdisciplinary majors, but many 
others are stymied in their attempts to deviate from pre
scribed curriculums.)
The problem, researchers might conclude, is that despite 
administrators  efforts to be humanistic and personal, they 
nonetheless run CMU like a business corporation. Important 
decisions are handed down willy-nilly from above. Of 
course, not all decisions are so handed down-Housing is 
asking for ideas to improve lounges, and many administra
tors meet regularly with students and listen carefully to 
comments and complaints. But when it really matters, when 
money is involved or when academic programs are on the 
line, students are stripped of any chance to contribute to 
the decision-making process. No wonder they feel trapped 
jnd helplesslike rats thrown into water shorn of their 
whiskers.
Students can do one of two things to improve their sit
uation. First, they can go through established channels by 
attending student meetings, talking privately to professors 
and administrators, and getting involved in dubs and extra
curricular activities. In short, by becoming more visible. 
Students should vote in this weeks Senate elections, and 
then keep in touch with their elected representatives.
And the second thing students can do? Well, remember 
the movies Ben" and "Willard". .. ?
Sherry Siegel 
Editor-in-Chief
Letters
Save Kiltie Band
Editor:
As a senior majoring in music 
performance, I would like to voice 
my dissatisfaction with the recent 
decision to discontinue the music 
education program (I have my 
very philosophical reasons, also) 
and particularly the plan to elim
inate the Kiltie Band. As this 
questionable organization was my 
sole lifeline to large ensemble 
playing for two entire years, 
(would you believe 10 thousand 
dollars worth?) I feel an urgent 
need to point out its definite 
positive value.. Before the Sym
phonic Wind Ensemble (newly in
stalled with this academic year), 
the Kiltie Band served for many 
(excluding strings, of course) as a 
preparatory reading ensemble for 
orchestra. Although many music 
schools have repertory orchestras, 
ours (it might surprise you) does 
not. Playing in the Kiltie Band, I 
learned from the more exper
ienced players in my section, and 
am still learning as a senior. I 
am talking about exposure- the
more I got, the better I was forced 
to become. Its very simpleit 
is a learning process. It is essential 
no matter in which way you ap
proach it. This process applies to 
all walks of lifewhich is why I 
am writing this letter. If the music 
education program is to be con
tinued for those already enrolled, 
why isnt the Kiltie Band surviving 
the cutback? Education majors 
have as practical a need for band 
experience as for orchestral 
playing; many public schools are 
as interested in what their own 
marching band looks like as what 
their school orchestra sounds like.
Name withheld 
by request
Save Music Education 
Editor:
As a result of financial and 
philosophical considerations, the 
music department has decided to 
phase out music education and de
velop into a music conservatoryenrolling only performance ma
jors. I would like to enumerate 
some of the considerations that 
must have been ignored in the v
process of making this decision:
1) As a conservatory, we will
compete for student enrollment 
and support with other already 
established conservatoriesfor
example Curtis, Oberlin, Geveland Institute of Music and Julliard. Even if we could compete 
successfully, we will only become 
another conservatory. On the 
other hand, music education has 
always been unique at CamegieMellon. Music Education degrees 
are only give to students who have 
already put in 4 years and have 
received a BFA in performance. 
As a result, music teachers from 
CMU have between 2 to 5 more 
years of private training on a 
major instrument than music 
teachers from any other college 
or university. Considering Presi
dent Cyerts emphasis on strength
ening the strong and unique as
pects of CMU education and on 
minimizing or eliminating the 
weak aspects, I would think that 
if anything was eliminated it 
would be performance.
2) As a result of the prestige that 
has been associated with the 
Music Ed. Department, alumni
TARTAN
Volume 7November 15, 1977Number 11
Editor-in-Chief 
Managing Editor 
Business Editor 
News Editor 
Entertainment Editor 
Folio Editor 
Sports Editor 
Photography Editor
Sherry Siegel 
Brenda Reed 
Ellen Silverman 
Saul Carliner 
Casey Childs 
Jeffrey Zaslow 
Tom Binnie 
V.R.V. Ramanan
Production staff: 
Photography staff:
Linda Deak, Gary Walzer
Brian Batchelder, Mike Bergman, Skip Brazelton, John Fong, Greg 
Lebowitz, George Lecomte, Ken Ream, Steve Salagaller, Mark Segal
Copyright 1977 by the Carnegie-Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit or 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Govern 
ment of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; (412) 578- 
2000 ext. 2111 or 2112. Business Offices: Skibo 52; (412) 578-2111.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

---------------------------------------------------

November 15, 1977TARTANPage 7
have always been very successful 
in finding teaching jobs upon 
graduation. (100% success ac
cording to a questionaire given to 
alumni who graduated in music 
education and music performance 
during the last ten years.)
3) Among financial consider
ations, here are some expenditures 
that will have to be made in order 
to attract qualified students into a 
^conservatory program and keep 
them; a) Between 4 and 6 con
cert grand pianosat least one in 
the recital hall and one in every 
practice room reserved specifically 
for piano majors. (Other conser
vatories have them.) These cost 
between 16 and 26 thousand dol
lars apiece. (Presently the Music 
Dept, does not own a single de
cent concert grand.) b) Function
al upright pianos in the remaining 
practice rooms. Presently there is 
not one upright piano in practice 
rooms on which all notes and 
pedals work. These pianos cost 
about $900 apiece, c) We pre
sently have 26 practice rooms
2 for organ majors, 5 for piano 
majors and 19 for the remaining 
vocal and instrumental majors. 
While many people consider this 
to be a drastically small number, I 
would rather question the quality 
of these rooms. They need sound
proofing. Not one room is capa
ble of blocking out the sounds of 
neighboring musicians. It is im
possible for a serious performer to 
put in the necessary amount of 
concentrated study that is re
quired of him under those condi
tions. d) The school owns 3 
organs. The two in the practice 
rooms, I have been told by an 
organ major, sound like circus 
calliopes. The third, I assume, is 
better. While this is a very small 
number, the most obvious lack is 
that none of these organs are in a 
room large enough for an audi
ence. Because organs are not 
portable, organ majors are re
quired to make arrangements with 
the local churches in order to give 
. a recital. Assuming we had a 
recital hall to put it in, a pipe or
gan would cost as least $40 thou
sand. e) More master classes 
with top performers ($700-$ 1000 
for a day), f) Hiring of private 
instructors with status as teachers 
and as performersespecially for 
the string instruments ($35-$60 
an hour) g) a concert hall large 
enough for an orchestra.
This is only a small list of 
things which top conservatories 
do have, which we dont have and 
which we need if we hope to at
tract conservatory calibre stu
dents.
4) And a philosophical consi
deration: The nation needs better 
teachers. The poor quality of 
education that goes on in our 
public schools is becoming more 
and more publicized. Students 
come out of high'schools unable 
to read. The problem does not 
stay at the public schools. The 
last issue of CMUs FOCUS had 
an article in it about student il
literacy at CMU. Doesnt a col
lege that has always done a super
ior job in producing educators 
owe anything to society by. main
taining such a program? Instead, 
it will be turning out orchestral 
players who cater largely to the 
middle and upper class elite of 
the society. And audiences will
only become more representative 
of all society when music pro
grams on elementary and secon
dary levels are improved and sup
ported.
One final point: Robert Page, 
head of the Music Dept., referred 
to the considerations that guided 
this decision to be those of the 
Music Department. I would like 
it to be known that the faculty 
and students are opposed to the 
intended change and, in fact, were 
not notified of it until after the 
decision had already been made. 
He is referring to his own personal 
considerations and perhaps those 
of other administrative officials. 
Isnt a decision that affects the 
positions of faculty members and 
the educational futures of a stu
dent body (whom, theoretically, 
the University is intended to 
serve) worthy of their considera
tions also?
Name withheld by request
Give Blood
Editor:
Two weeks ago, Student 
Senate voted to throw a large 
party for those who donate or 
attempt to donate blood in this 
weeks blood drive. Hopefully, 
the opportunity to attend the 
sizable affair will add incentive for 
students to participate. Notice the 
word add ; there are certainly 
other incentives that are at least 
as viable.
Unfortunately, there are al
ways people who need some 
healthy blood, yet despite all the 
efforts of blood banks, many of 
those people must wait days or 
weeks for the right type of blood. 
Knowing that some of your 
precious, yet easily replaceable 
blood will be of life-sustaining 
value to someone is indeed a 
unique feeling. And that someone 
in need may very well be a family 
member or friend.
I suppose the primary fear of 
donating is of that needle they 
need to jab into you. How the 
hell else are they going to get 
your blood? You should be glad 
they dont need blood from a 
deep artery; that requires a 4-5 
inch needle with anesthesia shots, 
additionally.
There is also the chance that 
the recipient of your blood will 
inherit some of your humanitar-ianism! (Blood is the carrier for 
genetic * traits, isnt it?) 
Its nice to think that most stud
ents at CMU dont live expressly 
to party and study, in that order. 
Lets prove this by everybody 
turning out to give blood and 
really showing them what CMU 
students are made of. Is it true 
blood is the gift of life?
Elliot Ohlberg
Move, don't pay 
Editor;
After having attempted a vari
ety of living conditions for almost 
2Vi years here at CMU, I would 
like to stop for a minute and dis
cuss something that most of us 
have been aware of for quite a 
while. Were getting screwed.
By now all of us (even those 
new to dear ol CMU) are more 
than familiar with the antics of 
our administration; inadequate
housing, inefficient maintenance, 
terrible food (not to mention the 
outrageous costs, etc.). Weve 
all heard a few of the specifics, 
and weve all got our personal 
gripes, but is there, or is there not, 
anything we can do about it?
Individually, I doubt it. Who 
would want to try to battle 
through all the bureaucracy any
way? Could we have any effect 
as a singular student body? May
be, but as those individuals who 
have tried to unite us in the past 
will tell you: were all too busy 
saving our own skins to have 
much time for worrying about our 
classmates. The ingrown belief around campus that the men here 
are hairy-palmed lechers while the 
women are stuck-up airheads cer
tainly does not help any. People 
pass each other every day on the 
sidewalks, staring at their feet, 
too afraid that they might catch 
someones eye. (God help you if 
youre caught smiling!)
Lets face it, its going to be a 
while until the administration 
notices (or cares) that some of us 
came here for a little more than 
doing up some Calculus for de
sert. Their narrow-minded belief 
in particulated education inhibits 
the use of inspiration or ingenuity 
(fortunately not as noticeable in 
our fine arts).
What to do while we wait? 
Im not claiming to offer any pro
found revelations, but sooner or 
later youll discover that you can 
eat twice as well on $15 per week 
with a toaster oven and hot plate 
than you can paying $35 per week 
(1st semester) to eat at Skibo.
Better still, if you would spend 
some time with a few friends 
looking for a house or apartment 
off-campus, you could live, year 
round, in relative luxury for the 
cost of a double in Morewood 
over two semesters.
Whatever attempts you do 
make (those of you who have had 
enough of being locked in your 
room, glad only that you wont 
make it to dinner), I sincerely 
wish you the best of luck. Its 
not the easiest solution, but be
lieve me, its worth every bit of 
time you can give it.
In retrospect, CMU may be a 
pretty poor place to have to visit, 
but I just thank God I dont have 
to live there anymore.
Richard Fairbanks 
Squirrel Hill
Pitt is it!
Editor:
I am writing in reference to 
the news of a tuition increase 
for the next academic year. 
In my opinion, this years tuition 
was steep enough, without a 
$300 hike onto it! Sure, our 
tuition is cheap in comparison 
to such lofty institutions as 
MIT or Princeton; but, according 
to Bartletts College Handbook, 
Carnegie-Mellon is classified in the 
expensive section, second only 
to the very expensive section 
which includes MIT, Princeton, 
Harvard, Yale, etc., I think you 
get my point.
However, it is not only the 
tuition increase I am complain
ing about; I am quite perplexed 
over the question of where this 
money goes! Our campus is
Position letter of the Music Department SAC
Carnegie-Mellon University music students have expressed opposi
tion to the recent announcement of specialization of the Music De
partment, and the phasing out of music education. On the basis of a 
consensus of these views discussed at three student meetings, the Stu
dent Advisory Committee (SAC) of the Music Department officially 
opposes the decision of administration on the grounds that (1) it will 
have a substantially negative impact on the students presently en
rolled, and (2) it was improperly presented to the student body.
Dean Midani and Robert Page have verbally assured the Music SAC 
that the phasing out of the music education option will not affect 
students presently enrolled in the program. Music students, however, 
do not trust this position for the following reasons:
The department will be phasing out the Kiltie Band in the 1978-79 
school term. This means the elimination of an education-oriented 
performing ensemble that has provided necessary experiences for 
music education majors. The band meets the needs of over fifty stu
dents who would not otherwise be able to play in a large ensemble. In 
addition, the band provides ensemble experience for the students tak
ing a secondary instrument as required in the education option.Un
dergraduate conducting courses have used the band for the acquiring 
of conducting and rehearsal techniques necessary for successful instru
mental directing in the public schools. Not mentioned is the fact that 
the band provides the exclusive vehicle for exposition and expression 
of band literature. To meet these needs while there is a music edu
cation program at CMU, there must be a band under the guidance and 
overall responsibility of the department. The administrations action 
to eliminate Kiltie Band next year is interpreted by students as an 
immediate lowering of the standards of the music education curricu
lum, affecting the students who are to remain in it for the next four 
years.
How can the department assure its students that the quality of the 
music education option will be maintained (until the program is 
phased out) when several of the education faculty will, in all likeli
hood, seek new positions at other universities? Already many students 
are upset at the trend since Mr. Pages appointment as Department 
Head, that Graduate Assistants frequently teach the instrumental 
methods course. The students have complained that often these in
structors do not show the background or ability to teach the course. 
Is this the fate of other professional music education courses, includ
ing the summer courses offered to earn a Masters of Fine Arts in Mu
sic Education?
Another concurrent fear expressed by students is the effect the an
nouncement will have on the general public, especially prospective 
employers. The University must release, in an affirmative manner, pos
itive information specifically stating that the music education program 
is of high quality, and the decision to phase it out was based on a de
partmental change of focus. Even if this is handled properly, the elim
ination of the program will still raise doubts in employers minds of 
the effectiveness of the teacher training. The excellent reputation of 
the program may long be forgotten in a few years, since no new grad
uates will be added to the ranks of the finest music educators in the 
country.
From the students point of view, the administration has demon
strated a complete disregard for protocol and fairness in coming to the 
decision and informing the student population. On October 27, Pres
ident Cyert announced that music education would be phased out, in 
a confidential meeting with the faculty. The SAC was not invited to 
this meeting. Music students, however, first heard about the decision 
at least a week before from students in other departments. The in
formers told music students that the President had announced the de
cision at Homecoming. It was not until November 4, when the Music 
SAC asked Mr. Page to speak at a meeting with students, were the 
facts verbally and officially released to those involved in the program. 
To date (November 11), no written statement has been distributed to 
anyone guaranteeing that the present music education program will 
continue for students from the Freshman through to the Fifth Year 
classes.
Students obviously feel the administration considers them the least 
significant source for contributing information involving a major poli
cy decision affecting the course of the University. Since no effort was 
made to elicit student input via SAC or to inform the student body about the decision within a reasonable amount of time, students feel 
little inclination to trust the sincerity of belated statements promising 
a high quality program while it is being phased out.Until a written 
statement is released to the students, the Music SAC will not consider 
the policy properly presented to the students.
As President of the Music SAC, I am appealing to the appropriate 
administrators to distribute a detailed statement, including the sched
ule of phasing out the music education program, who will and will not 
be entitled to the program, and what steps will be taken to insure the 
quality of the education. If the students are not satisfied that it is 
complete and clearly stated, then I propose a special meeting of Pres
ident Cyert, Dean Midani, Robert Page, and the officers of the Music 
SAC, to firmly establish the new policy and its ramifications on pres
ently enrolled music students interested in music education.
(signed) Paul K. Fox, President 
Music Department SAC

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8TARTANNovember 15, 1977
far from beautiful, our buildings 
less than monuments, and our 
instructors not quite geniuses. 
For an example, I am now being 
housed in the illustrious Morewood Gardens. My room was 
a nightmare for me on my 
first day on the campus on that 
long-ago Friday of September 
(I am a freshman). It was infested 
with cockroaches, beat-up fur
niture, and a floor that was 
crumbling beneath my feet. Sure
ly the money invested in such 
luxuries would be minimal. An
other thing that discouraged me 
was how tired I got after climbing 
the almost 45 degree angle halls 
(hills) in some of our gorgeous 
buildings. Someday, during one 
of our Spring Carnivals, a con
test should be held to see who 
can unroll a roll of toilet paper 
from the Academic Advisory 
Center in Baker Hall to the very
end of Porter Hall the fastest. 
Also, I must say that in onehalf of a semester here, I have 
learned no larger quantity of 
important information than I 
learned in the same time period 
during high school though I have 
put out at least 10 times the 
effort!
So, maybe this letter will 
not be printed because it shows 
a lack of campus patriotism, 
or maybe because 1 am not one 
who goes around declaring his 
studentship in the great school of 
CMU in hopes of impressing 
others, but I must be honest 
with myself and with anyone 
who cares to hear my views.
I came to CMU because I wanted 
to make my college career in a 
city of opportunity (Pittsburgh), 
and I wanted a good and highlyreputable school. Well, CMU, 
your reputation is fabulous, so 
one out of two aint bad. I think
that next year, I will try out my 
education at Pitt.
Pitt is It!
SLM
Making CMU "personal" 
Editor:
At a prestigious instituiton of 
higher learning, one may hope 
to find a tradition of profession
al excellence and a curriculum 
including diverse enough topics 
to ensure a broad education. A 
cursory example of CMU would 
reveal the high standards, but 
years of detailed study would 
not be enough to find the diver
sity because in most cases it 
simply isnt there.
Here at CMU we want to 
make you vocation your avoca
tion, said the recruiting admis
sions staff. The prospective stud
ents eyes grew dreamy with 
visions of working at projects
which are sophisticated yet varied, 
allowing their innate talents to 
bear the full fruit of their skill
ful labors.
Yet many students begin to 
grow uneasy under the tight 
restrictions imposed on them by 
their departments. This is espe
cially true after they have stud
ied long enough for most of their 
earned credits to be non-transferable, if they decide to change 
their major. For some it is an 
unsettling feeling of ^growing up 
too soon. To these unfortunate 
folks, CMUs solution is the 
immerse or die approach. Simi
lar to the *sink or swim school 
of thought, this approach offers 
a fine chance at very rapid learn
ing if the student can focus all 
energy and interest on the imme
diate goals, which must be done 
the expense of outside inter
ests.
The universitys attitude seems.
to be, fcrt is art and science is 
science and never the twain shall 
meet. In order to alleviate this 
schism of knowledge, the design, 
engineering, art, and science de
partments would have to open 
lines of communication and joint
ly plan some special curricula. 
This may be asking too much, bu  
the results could bring new stan-' 
dards of educational excellence to 
CMU. Some new degrees offered 
might include six-year double ma
jor degrees in science and art 
or design and engineering. It 
could make CMU a truly personal 
experience.
Harvey Reive ^ 
Bret Jackson 
Tim Fabian
All letters to the Editor must be 
signed. Names will be withheld 
upon request. The TARTAN does 
not print anonymous letters.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
general
Oakland, an important neighborhood in
the city of Pittsburgh, is home to many 
residents as well as business and institu
tions. As a result problems arise because of 
lack of space. Many of these members of 
the Oakland community in the past have 
only been concerned with their own well 
being, leaving you the residents to pay the 
costs.
i It is time for Oakland to have a plan 
that gives you a voice to say what your 
ideas are for a better Oakland to-live and 
work. This year such a plan is being
started.
Oakland Directions Incorporated (ODI), 
which is made up of representatives from 
community groups, institutions, the com
mercial area, and the City Planning De
partment, is sponsoring this planning 
study for Oakland. A professional con
sultant, Urban Design Associates (UDA) 
is being hired to work for ODI to find 
out what the problems of the different 
members are, and to suggest possible sol
utions. The consultant will meet with
groups through the community to
understand your feelings about changes 
in your neighborhood and what you want 
to stay the same.
Oakland can only be as strong as you 
are!!! To make your opinions known 
to the consultant you must attend the 
meeting in your area. You can affect the 
future of Oakland. For more information 
please contact Peoples Oakland at 683- 
7958.
"Homemakers' Rights and Legislation"
will be the topic of the program meeting of 
the Squirrel Hill NOW on November 15 
3t 7:30 AM at the Squirrel Hill Urban Coaition at 2012 Murray Avenue.
Susan Brown, newly-elected Secretary 
3f the Pennsylvania National Organization 
or Women, will provide information on 
he present status of America's Homenakers and planned legislation for protectng their rights. Donations are requested 
or the presentation by Susan Brown.
The program will end at 9:30 PM at 
vhich time the Squirrel Hill NOW members 
/ill elect their officers for 1978. Also on 
he agenda is the completion of plans for 
wine and cheese party on December 10 at 
he Birmingham Booksellers in South Side, 
he party will be open to the public. Tickts will be available at the door or from 
hapter members for $3.00.
"The Challenge: A Tribute to Modern
Art," produced by Herbert Kline and nar
rated by Orson Welles, is an Academy 
Award nominee film which traces the 
growth of modern art over the past cen
tury.
The first Pittsburgh showing of this film 
is co-sponsored by GASP (Group Against 
Smog and Pollution) and the Chatham 
Christian Fellowship. The premiere
showing is on Sunday, Nov. 13th, 8 PM, 
Chatham College Chapel, Woodland Road. 
Subsequent showings: Monday, Nov.
14th, 7 and 9 PM, Chatham Chapel. Tues
day, Nov. 15th, 7 and 9 PM, University of 
Pittsburgh School of Public Health Audi
torium at Fifth and Desota Street. Tues
day Nov. 22nd, 7 and 9 PM, School of 
Public Health Auditorium. Donation 
$2.00, proceeds benefit GASP.
SPRING CARNIVAL: Persons interested
in organization of Carnival, meeting: Tues
day, Nov. 15, 5:00 PM, Skibo Room 13. 
The Advanced Building Studies Program 
will present Konrad Wachsman, Professor 
Emeritus, Dr. h.c., University of Southern 
California, speaking about his work at 
two evening lectures, 8:00 PM, Tuesday, 
November 15, and Wednesday, November 
16, in 7500 Science Hall.
If you have not filled out your AB Film 
survey that appeared in last week's TAR
TAN, please do so. This is a good way to 
add your voice to the choice of next 
semester's movies. The surveys are due to
day at the Skibo Information Desk. 
THE ALTERNATIVE Coffee House will 
feature an OPEN STAGE Night this Fri
day, November 18 from 8 PM through 12 
midnight. All interested performers are 
invited to the ALTERNATIVE stage 
which will showcase folk singers, musi
cians, poets, comedians, and soft rock 
artists. Located in the Lutheran Univer
sity Center, 4515 Forbes Ave., Oakland, 
THE ALTERNATIVE presents live en
tertainment each Friday Night. For in
formation, call 682-6886. The Coffee 
House will be closed on Friday, November 
25 for Thanksgiving Recess, but will re
open on Friday, December 2 with Bill 
Fichter, Contemporary Folk Musician.
Noonday Prayers on Wednesdays in the
Chapel (Skibo room 39). Episcopal 
Chaplain Jonathan Appleyard leads this 
service.
Subscriptions to the 1978 Thistle will
be sold in Baker Hall lobby Tuesday Nov.
15 through Friday Nov. 18 from 10 AM to
4 PM.
Jobs Available At The Student Employ
ment Office Rent-A-Tech! Babysitters 
needed on occasional basis. Some evening 
and day time hours available. Job is 
flexible. Health Service workers needed in 
Outreach program. Part-time hours avail
able and time is flexible. Work approxi
mately 20/week. Salary is $3,500/year. 
Work requires field work duties and a 
knowledge of Pittsburgh. Training pro
gram will be provided. Native french 
babysitter wanted for 5 year old bilingual 
boy. Lunch steam table and pantry per
son wanted for full or part-time work. 
$2.35/hour. Free living quarters in ex
change for housekeeping and babysitting. 
Private floor in three floor Squirrel Hill 
home. T.V. repairperson needed. Person 
with some electronic experience needed 
to make repairs. Part-time positions avail
able at laboratories to assist in breeding 
albino rats. Duties to include caring for 
animals, cleaning, feeding animals. Any 
hours are possible. Must have transpor
tation to the North Hills. Babysitter 
needed next semester to care for 15 month 
boy from 10:00 AM to 4:00 PM on Tues
days and Thursdays and/or Mondays. 
Bus help and dishwashers needed at local 
restaurant. No experience needed, must 
be over 18, salary is $2.50/hour. Waiters 
and waitresses needed at local restaurant. 
.Must be over 18. Work is part-time or full 
time. Experience required. Salary is 
$2.50/hour + tips. Person to make deli
veries for company. Must be over 21, 
work 3-5 hours/day for as many hours/ 
week as possible. Salary is $3.00/hour. 
Cocktail waitresses and hostesses and 
coat check persons needed for newly opened restaurant must be 18 and over 
and experience is not necessary. Restau
rant promises to be a great addition to the 
new restaurants in Pittsburgh. Companion 
wanted for 89-year old woman to take for 
walks, go shopping and have lunch with. 
Woman is quite active and is looking for 
young person to converse with. If inter
ested in these or other parttime employ
ment stop in at the Student Employment 
Office located in Skibo Room 58. Office 
hours are 10:30 to 2:30 Monday-Friday 
and 6 to 9 in the evenings. Saturday hours 
are 1 to 4. This is a service free to Carnegie 
Mellon students sponsored by Student 
Corporation.
Carnegie Museum of Natural History is
currently proudly displaying its first ac
quisition, an Egyptian coffin. The coffin 
was presented to the museum on June 1, 
1896, by Andrew Carnegie. It is on dis
play in the Information and Orientation 
Center from November 1 to December 11. 
CHRISTIANITY AND SCIENCE (79-648) 
will be offered as a philosophy course in 
the spring semester of 1978. It will pro
vide a survey of several topics as the inter-sj 
face between scientific thought and Chris
tian theology, such as cosmology, evolu
tion, determinism and free will, and 
science and miracles. Registration will 
take place in the History Department. For 
further information contact Professor Ro
bert Griffiths, Science Hall 6309, phone 
578-2765, or Professor David Laughlin, 
Science Hall 3307, phone 578-2706. \ 
"Preview and Review" is the title of the 
handcraft exhibition opening on November
6 at The Store, 719 Allegheny River Bou
levard, Verona. The display introduces 
16 artists whose work has not been seen in 
the Pittsburgh area before and new designs 
by 30 of the craftspersons shown regular
ly in this nonprofit craft gallery. "Preview 
and Review" will continue through De
cember 30. The Store is open on weekdays 
from 10 to 5, on Sundays from 1 to 5. For 
further information call Miss Dorcas Evans, 
Public Relations, 828-6121.
The City of Pittsburgh's Department of 
Parks and Recreation is pleased to announ
ce that the 83rd annual Fall Flower Show 
will be held at Phipps Conservatory in 
Schenley Park from November 6 through 
November 27. The hours seven days a 
week will be 10:00 AM to 5:00 PM and 
7:00 PM to 9:00 PM with an admission 
charge of $.50 for adults and $.10 for 
children 2 to 16 years of age. The admis
sion is free to everyone each Saturday dur
ing the daytime hours of 10:00 AM to 
5:00 PM. The regular charge is in effect 
for Saturday evenings.
Over 40,000, chrysanthemum plants 
will bloom in the thirteen conservatory 
display rooms. These will represent more 
than 120 varieties of which about 60 will 
be new additions to the conservatory col
lection. Many feathered and paintbrush 
forms will be on view as well as button, 
football, daisy, decorative and spider sorts.
John P. Crecine, Dean of the College of
Humanities & Social Sciences will have open office hours for students. Tuesdays 
from 1:30 to 5:00.
Forbes St. Gallery presents the work of
Vivian Kerstein (drawings, pointings, 
prints), and Mark Segal (panoramic photo
graphy) in a show opening Tuesday night, 
Nov. 15. The opening will be from 7 to 
9 30 PM. All are invited.

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTS.CLASSIFIED ADS
DEADLINE: NOON WEDNESDAY for all 
announcements and classified ads.
general
"RAPEDefense and Prevention" will be
the topic of a Pittsburgh. Action Against 
Rape (PAAR) presentation at Point Park 
College on Thursday, November 17 at
11 AM in Room 301 Academic Hall.
Anne Pride, Education Director for 
PAAR, will present a lecture and discussion 
on fundamentals of self-defense, self
protection and precautions to prevent 
rape.
The presentation is open to the public. 
For more information, call PAAR at 682- 
0219.
Sheppard Greene, co-producer of ONCE
UPON A CLASSIC, will moderate a panel 
discussion of "Good Television for To
day's Youth" at Carnegie Library of 
Pittsburgh on Tuesday, November 15 at
7 30 PM.
Other members of the panel, which will 
examine television's aims and its effects 
on today's youth, include Dr. Keith 
Reisinger, psychiatrist, Children's Hospital; 
Ms. Mary Alice Dwyer, Director, Children's 
Programming for ABC; Ms. Hedda Sharapan, local representative of Action for 
Children's Television (ACT); and Mr. 
Richard Kurlander Program Director, 
KDKA-TV. Mr. Greene is producer of 
special programming for WQED.
The meeting, free and open to the 
public, will be held in the Current Affairs 
Room of the Central library in Oakland.
Child Development Seminar. The Gesell
Institute of Child Development will hold a 
one-day seminar on their school readiness 
program of testing, placement and individ
ualized teaching for pre-school and kinder
garten children on Saturday, November 
19 in 7500 Science Hall, CMU. Special 
rates for students are available. Registra
tion materials and information can be 
obtained by calling Micki Nugent, CMU 
Public Relations Office, 160. Baker Hall, 
578-2900.
SCHOOL BUS SAFETY PRESENTATION
Undergraduates in the Department of En
gineering and Public Policy (EPP) and grad
uates in the School of Urban and Public 
Affairs (SUPA) are in the process of 
evaluating the School Bus Transport Sys
tem relative to applicable Federal and 
State regulations. This second presenta
tion, scheduled for 3:30 PM in the Scaife 
Auditorium, will feature a progress report 
including findings to date and tentative 
conclusions. Faculty advisors for the 
project are Shirley Angrist (SUPA), Gran
ger Morgan (EPP/EE), Henry Piehler 
(MMS/EPP), and Alvin Weinstein (ME/ 
EPP). The Evaluation and Review Panel 
consists of members from PennDOT, 
school district administrators, private 
school bus contractors, manufacturers, and 
school bus safety technical representatives. 
For more information, call Barbara Lydon, 
ext. 2670.
Urban Development and Transportation
Group American Society of Civil Engineers 
in cooperation with Asso. for Bridge Con
struction and Design, American Institute 
of Planners, American Society of Highway 
Engineers, Engineers' Society of Western 
Pennsylvania, Pennsylvania Society of
Land Surveyors, Pennsylvania Society of 
Professional Engineers presents Dr. Thomas 
D. Larse, Director of the Pennsylvania 
Transportation Institute, Chairman of the 
Penndot Fiscal Review Task Force "New 
Directions for Penndota Fiscal Review" 
Thursday, November 17, 19777:30 PM at 
the Parkway Terrace. Cocktails6:00 PM, 
Buffet6:30 to 7:30 PM. The Buffet 
cost is $6.50. Make reservations by Mon
day, November 14, 1977. Telephone:
Sandra Lapietra566-3388.
The twentieth anniversary of the opening
of Consolata Awareness Center of Pitts
burgh will be celebrated this coming Sun
day at 7110 Thomas Blvd., Pittsburgh, 
Pa. 15208.
Rev. Matthew Tosello, the Superior of the 
Mission Center announces that the recep
tion will be from 2 to 5 PM. It isopen to 
the Civic and Religious leaders and to the 
most active friends.
The Center features a museum of 150 
Makonde Ebony Carvings from Tanzania, 
East Africa one of the finest in this nation ; 
a collection of over 1000 slides from Third 
World Countries where the Consolata operate and a variety of maps and statis
tical datas on Africa and Latin American 
countries. For further information contact 
Rev. Matthew Tosello, 241-3995.
"25th Anniversary Ball" of the Pittsburgh 
Auxiliary will be held at the Montour 
Country Club on Saturday, December 10,
1977. This is the Annual Christmas din
ner dance with cocktails at 6:30 followed 
by dinner and dancing from 9:00 until 
1:00.
Tickets are $28.00 per couple or $14.00 
per person. A special invitation is extend
ed to the widows of past members, as well 
as past presidents of our auxiliary to come 
to this anniversary ball.
To make reservations, please call Mrs. 
Roy F. Johns (Barbara) at 741-3039 or 
Mrs. William Schaefer (Margie) at 486-2370 
by December 3, 1977. (Last date for can
cellations will be December 8, 1977). 
The Sunday, November 20, Conference 
entitled "Information on Aliyah" will 
explore many facets of everyday life in 
Israel. The Conference, which is free and 
open to the public, is from 1 to 4 PM at 
the Jewish Community Center in Oakland.
One of the keynote speakers is Jay 
Shapiro, who immigrated to Israel from 
Philadelphia in 1969. He is the new 
Aliyah Center Director in Philadelphia.
Yecheshel Harel, the other keynoter, 
is a Regional Shaliach in Philadelphia with 
the American Zionist Youth Foundation.
For information call Atalia Zmora, 
the Community Shlicha, 683-7277, or 
Bernice Snyder, AZF Executive Secretary, 
521-7576.
There will be Student Senate Elections
held Thursday, Nov. 17, 4 PM to 12 PM 
and Friday, Nov. 18, 10 AM to 4 PM. 
Vote at Donner, if you live on Margaret 
Morrison Street; Morewood, if you live 
at Morewood or Mudge and Skibo, if you 
live anywhere else. Elect your senators!
KDKA Radio General Manager A.B.
"Bill" Hartman will be the speaker when 
Point Park College's 1977-78 J & C Inter
view Series continues at 11 AM Thursday. 
November 10 in Room 608, Academic 
Hall.
The Interview Series is sponsored by
the college's Department of Journalism 
and Communications.
FRIENDS OF WORLD TEACHING is
pleased to announce that hundreds of 
teachers and administrators are still needed 
to fill existing vacancies with overseas 
American Community schools, interna
tional, private, church-related, and indus
try supported schools and colleges in over 
120 countries around the world. 
FRIENDS OF WORLD TEACHING will 
supply applicants with updated lists of 
these schools and colleges overseas. Vacan
cies exist in almost all fieldsat all levels. 
Foreign language knowledge is not re
quired. Qualification requirements, sal
aries, and length of service vary from 
school to school, but in most cases are %similar to those in the U.S. For further 
information, prospective applicants should 
contact: FRIENDS OF WORLD TEACH
ING, P.O. Box 6454, Cleveland, Ohio 
44101.
It will be a "change of pace" for Point
Park College's 1977-78 J & C Interview 
Series when Roger Huston, track announ
cer for The Meadows, speaks at 11 AM 
Thursday, November 17 in Auditorium II.
His appearance is sponsored by the De
partment of Journalism and Communica
tions in cooperation with the college's 
Sports Information Department.
Dr. Usharbudh Arya, Sanskrit scholar, 
philosopher and direct disciple in a 35- 
century tradition of meditation, will give 
two lectures in Pittsburgh on Saturday, 
November 19, at Parkway Center Inn, 
875 Greentree Road. For additional 
information please call Robert J. Mueller 
at 922-2475.
scholarships awardsprizes
CMU students are invited to participate in
GLAMOUR Magazine's 2978 Top Ten 
College Women Contest. Young women 
from colleges and universities throughout 
the country will compete in GLAMOUR'S 
search for ten outstanding students. A 
panel of GLAMOUR editors will select 
the winners on the basis of theii solid 
records of achievement in academic studies 
and/or extracurricular activits on campus 
or in the community.
The 1978 Top Ten College Women will 
be featured in GLAMOUR'S August 
College Issue. During April, May or June, 
the ten winners will be invited to New 
York to meet the GLAMOUR staff and 
will recieve a $500 cash prize.
Anyone who is interested in entering 
the search should contact GLAMOUR for 
more information. The deadline for 
submitting an application to GLAMOUR is 
December 15, 1977
Rotary Clubs World-wide are beginning
their search for candidates for the 1979-80 
educational awardsgraduate fellowships, 
undergraduate scholarships, technical train
ing awards, teachers of the handicap awards and journalism awards. Applicants 
interested in being considered for these 
awards should contact their local Ro
tary Club prior to March 1, 1978.
The Rotary Club of Pittsburgh meets 
at 12:15 PM every Wednesday at the 
William Penn Hotel.
The Pennsylvania Institute of
Certified Public Accountants is sponsor
ing its annual accounting scholarship pro
gram. This year seventeen (17) $500 
qualified individuals from those nominated 
from approximately 58 colleges and uni
versities in Pennsylvania. The nominee 
should meet the following qualifications; 
The nominee must be a member of the 
Junior class selected by the faculty at each 
participating college on the basis of intel
lectual capacity and qualities of leadership. 
The individual, so selected must be a full
time student of junior standing who will 
have completed at least 12 semester cre
dits in accounting as part of an undergrad
uate degree.
Each participating school may nominate 
one student. Schools with more than 200 
accounting majors in its junior class 
may nominate two students to compete 
for the scholarship award.
For more information contact the 
Accounting Department Chairman. All 
applications must be returned by Decem
ber 15, 1977.
clubs
Intervarsity Christian Fellowship will hold
its weekly meeting on Wed., Nov. 16 at 
7:00 PM in Room 39. Tom Pasqarello, 
an InterVarsity staff member will speak 
of the topic *Why do Missions?' All are 
welcome.
Activities Board film Committee will be
meeting in Room 33 on Wednesday, Nov. 
16 at 4:30 to discuss the results of the 
film survey. Any interested students may 
come and offer their suggestions. 
SPRING CARNIVAL: Representative*
from all groups participating on the Mid
way, meeting; Tuesday, Nov. 22, 8.00 PM, 
Room 11.
Minority Women in Technology and Sci
ence (MWTS) There will be a meeting of 
all the old members and any interested 
women (undergrads or grads), on Wednes
day, November 16, 1977, at 4:30 PM. 
The meeting will be held in Morewood 
Garden's Piano Room. Hope to see you 
there.
The Tech Flying Club will meet Wednesday
Nov. 16 at 7:30 in 45 Skibo. All members 
of the CMU community with an interest 
in aviation are invited to attend.
classified
CMU Faculty couple are looking for re
sponsible baby-sitter for 15 months old 
baby boy. Start beginning of January
1978. Preferably 3 times a week, 10 AM 
to 4 PM. Only two times a week also 
possible. Wife of graduate student would 
be fine Call evenings 683-9670.
Studentsgraduating into the job market 
in Dec.? Get the professionally prepared 
resume that will get you selected. A pro
fessional service at low student rates. 
Call 884-4880. 9 AM to 6 PM.
Stero Components: Dynaco SCA-80 (40
watts per channel) and FM-5 Tuner.
6 months old. New $300 and $250, for 
sale $225 and $175. Jonathan Appleyard, 241-4886 (evening) and 422-7100 
(day).
KarenHappy Birthday ANGELLove
Charlie.
THE SEXUAL REVOLUTION IS HERE!
Men may now call up women. This mes
sage brought to you (and especially you) 
as a public service.
Original Wedding Bands. Why buy mass
produced rings? Have your own unique 
design created. 243-5458.
Typingown typewriter, in my home
(Shadyside), reasonable,efficient, accurate. 
After 6 PM. 665-9531
CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE 
1:00  5:00 PM Daily
SKIBO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

THE ELECTION
Student Senate Elections
THE CONNECTION
TIME: 
Thursday, Nov. 17-4 p.m. to 12 p.m. 
Friday, Nov. 18- 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.
PLACE! Vote in the lobbies of ... 
Donner Morewood Skibo
if you live on if you live at if you live
Margaret Morrison Morewood anywhereStreet or Mudge else
THE SELECTION
CONSTITUENCY (no. of seats available)
AMS(l) H&SS (2)
Julie Schultz Mark Collins
Carl Fetteroll Jary Petkovich
Anthony (T. J.) Junco Jr. 
^ David G. Roussos
Chris Deveau / \
, . MISUJ
CITw) Jim Carr
wir >r . x Tom EneelmannKen Meinert A/r. , 1T11 Michel lnnersChr.s Russell Scott Mn,er
. Daniel A. Cordes Elliot Ohlberg
GSIA(l) ottt>a (1 ^JohnTumazos  JLjljl \ JL /

---------------------------------------------------

FINISH

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-TARTAN-November 15, 1977
ALL ANSWERS TO THESE PROBLEMS APPEAR ON PAGE 14
Make two squares and four triangles from eight 
matches, without breaking or bending them.
2
A missionary visits an island where two tribes live. 
One tribe always tells the truth. The other always 
lies. The truth tellers live on the western side of 
the island and the liars live on the eastern side of 
the island. The missionary's problem is to deter
mine who tells the truth by asking one native 
only one question. The missionary, seeing a na
tive walking in the distance, asks a nearby native: 
"Go ask that native in the distance which side of 
the island he lives on. When the messenger re
turns he answers: He says he lives on the wes
tern side of the island." Is the messenger a truth 
teller or a liar? How can you be sure?
3
MAN: How many birds and how many beasts
do you have in your zoo?
ZOO KEEPER: There are 30 heads and 100 feet. 
MAN: I can't tell from that.
ZOOKEEPER: Oh, yes you can!
TARTAN FOUO
NOVEMBER 15, 1977/ ISSUE SPECIAL SB31DOOB QNIW
EDITOR JEFFREY ZASLOW 
ASSISTANT EDITOR KAREN ANN YAKSICH 
ART DIRECTOR SCOTT POLLACK 
MANAGERIAL ASSISTANT MORY BRENNER 
CONTRIBUTING ARTISTS BETH ARDEN 
ROBIN NtlSENBAUM RON KANDER
ROBERT ZIMMERMANN JIMWALDFOGLE 
BRENDA REED DAVE LEVINSON
SOME PROBLEMS COURTESY OF; JAMES F HXX 
(GAMES FOR THE SUPER INTELLIGENT)
MARTIN GARDNER'S NEW MATHEMATICAL 
DIVERSIONS
COVER DESIGN by MONTY KARP 
ANSWER TO MAZE ON COVER
What is the next temn in this series.
M
Three prisoners stand before a King. The King 
has placed a white or a black hat on each pris
oner. There are 3 white hats and 2 black. The 
King promises to free the prisoner that can de
termine the color of the hat on his own head 
(which he can't see). After looking around, the 
first prisoner says that he doesn't know what 
color his hat is. The second prisoner then looks 
at the other two mens' hats and says he doesn'ti 
know, either. Then the third prisoner, a blind 
man, says he knows the color of his hat. What 
color is it?
Make this equation true by substituting a unique 
number for each letter.
TWOxTWO=TH REE
Two automobiles are approaching each other at
3 constant velocity of 60 mph. When the autos 
are two miles apart, a very fast fly leaves the front 
bumper of one of the autos and travels toward 
the other at a speed of 120 mph. Upon reaching 
that auto, the fly immediately reverses direction. 
This continues until the autos collide (or, to make 
it less gory, let's say narrowly miss colliding). 
How far did the fly travel?
a8
You have 10 gray socks and 20 blue socks in 
your bureau drawer. If you reach into it in the 
dark, how many socks must you take out to be 
sure of having a pair that matches?
9
A rectangle is inscribed in the quadrant of a circle 
as shown. Given the unit distances indicated, can 
you accurately determine the length of the 
diagonal AC?
Timelimit: one minute!
10
A genius came to a narrow railroad bridge and 
began to run across it. He had crossed three 
eighths of the distance when a whistle behind him 
warned of an approaching train. Being a genius, 
he instantly evaluated his alternatives. If he were 
to run back to the beginning of the bridge at his 
speed of 10 mph, he would leave the bridge at 
precisely the moment the train entered it. If he 
kept on running to the end of the bridge, the 
train would reach him just as he left the bridge. 
At what speed was the train moving?
11
Professor Merle White of the Mathematics depart
ment, Professor Leslie Black of philosophy, and 
Jean Brown, a young stenographer who worked in 
the university's office of admissions, were lunch
ing together.
"Isn't it remarkable," observed the lady, "that 
our last names are Black, Brown and White and 
that one of us has black hair, one brown hair and 
one white."
"It is indeed," replied the person with black 
hair, "and have you noticed that not one of us 
has hair that matches his or her name?"
"By golly, you're right!" exclaimed Professor 
White.
If the lady's hair isn't brown, what is the color 
of Professor Black's hair?
12
Smith drove at a steady clip along the highway, 
his wife beside him. "Have you noticed," he said, 
"that those annoying signs for Flatz beer seem to 
be regularly spaced along the road? I wonder 
how far apart they are."
Mrs. Smith glanced at her wrist watch, then 
counted the number of Flatz beer signs they 
passed in one minute.
"What an odd coincidence!" exclaimed Smith. 
"When you multiply that number by ten, it exact
ly equals the speed of our car in miles per hour."
Assuming that the car's speed is constant, that 
the ^igns are equally spaced and that Mrs. Smith's 
minute began and ended with the car midway be
tween two signs, how far is it between one sign 
and the next?
13
Two professors, one of English and one of math
ematics, were having drinks in the faculty club 
bar.
"It is curious," said the English professor, 
"how some poets can write one immortal line and 
nothing else of lasting value. John William 
Burgon, for example. His poems are so mediocre 
that no one reads them now, yet he wrote one of 
the most marvelous lines in English poetry: 'A 
rose-red city half as old as Time.' "
The mathematician, who liked to annoy his 
friends with improvised brainteasers, thought for 
a moment or two, then raised his glass and re
cited:
"A rose-red city half as old as Time.
One billion years ago the city's age 
Was just two-fifths of what Time's age will be 
A billion years from now. Can you compute 
How old the crimson city is today?"
The English professor had long ago forgotten 
his algebra, so he quickly shifted the conversa
tion to another topic, but readers of this depart
ment should have no difficulty with the problem.

---------------------------------------------------

November 15, 1977TARTAN-Page 13
14A man buys a string 25,000 miles long and sets 
out to stretch it around the circumference of the 
earth. When he reaches his starting point, he dis
covers that the string is in fact 25,000 miles and 
one yard long. Rather than cut the string, he de
cides to tie the ends together and distribute the 
extra 36 inches evenly around the entire circum
ference. How far does the string stand out from 
the earth because of the extra yard? Disregard 
the length of string used to tie the knot.
15
10 can be written using five 9's like this: 
99/99+9=10
Find another way to write ten using five 9's.
16
In the South Pacific, sc the story goes , white 
people get sunburned to a brown color that is 
identical to the native islanders' color. There is 
only one way to tell them apart: by what they 
say. Islanders always lie. Non-islanders always 
tell the truth.
A visitor is paddling a canoe up to the beach 
of an island when he sees three people, all the 
same brown color. He asks, "Are you white 
people burned brown or are you islanders?" The 
first one calls out something that is lost in the 
sound of the surf, so the man in the canoe again 
shouts, "Are you islanders or sunburned white 
people?"
This time the second man on the beach calls 
back, saying, "The first person who answered 
said he is a white man, and he is a white man, and 
so am I." The third person on the beach called 
out, "The first two people here on the beach are 
islanders and I am a white man burned brown."
From what they have said, tell what each man 
really is.
17
Draw the corresponding side view or perspective 
view of this object.
18
All readers of this book greatly love puzzles. 
Some readers of this book are famous. Some 
famous people are great lovers. Therefore:
(a) All readers of this book become famous.
(b) All great lovers are puzzling.
(c) Some famous people love puzzles.
(d) Some readers of this book are great lovers.
19
What type of submarine is this ?
20
Complete the series: 2-4; 6-8;
(a) 8-24 (b) 8-32 (c) 10-40 (d) 20-60
(e) 21-84
21
If seven belly dancers can lose a total of 20 
pounds in eight hours of dancing, how many 
more belly dancers would be needed to lose a 
total of 20 pounds in only four hours of dancing 
provided the new dancers shed weight only half 
as fast as the original seven?
(a) 7 (b) 21 (c) 27 (d) 14 (e) 12
To? VIS I*PltONT VIEW
22
Andy dislikes the catcher. Ed's sister is 
engaged to the second baseman. The center fiel
der is taller than the right fielder. Harry and the 
third baseman live in the same building. Paul and 
Allen each won $20 from the pitcher at pinochle. 
Ed and the outfielders play poker during their 
free time. The pitcher's wife is the third base
man's sister. The pitcher, catcher, and fielders 
except Allen, Harry, and Andy, are shorter than 
Sam. Paul, Andy, and the shortstop lost $50 each 
at the racetrack. Paul, Harry, Bill, and the 
catcher took a trouncing from the second base
man at pool. Sam is involved in a divorce suit. 
The catcher and the third baseman each have two 
children. Ed, Paul, Jerry, the right fielder, and 
the center fielder are bachelors.. The others are 
married. The shortstop, the third baseman, and 
Bill each cleaned up $100 betting on the fight. 
One of the outfielders is either Mike or Andy. 
Jerry is taller than Bill. Mike is shorter than Bill. 
Each of them is heavier than the third baseman.
Using these facts, determine the names of the 
men playing the various positions on the baseball 
team.
23
Three boxes are labeled "Apples," "Oranges," 
and "Apples and Oranges." Each label is in
correct. You may choose only one fruit from one 
box to determine what is in each box. Which one 
do you choose from?
24
A circus performance is witnessed by 120 
people who have paid a total of $120. The men 
paid $5, the women $2, and the children 10 cents 
each. How many of each went to the circus?
25
Four men and four women are shipwrecked on 
a desert island. Eventually each one falls in love 
with one other, and is himself loved by one per
son. John falls in love with a girl who is, un
fortunately in love with Jim. Arthur loves a girl: 
who loves the man who loves Ellen. Mary is loved 
by the man who is loved by the girl who is loved 
by Bruce. Gloria hates Bruce and is hated by 
the man whom Hazel loves. Who loves Arthur?
26
Draw 4 intersecting straight lines inside the square 
such that it is divided up into eleven pieces each 
containing one dot.
27
What do the following words have in common? 
deft canopy crabcake
first laughing hijack
calmness stupid
28
"The good is the enemy of the best" means:
(a) If you're good you'll best your enemy.
(b) Be good to your best enemy.
(c) Don't accept less than your best.
(d) The good struggles against the best.
29
Move only two matches to form four squares. 
One is larger than the other three.
MM30
What did Andrew Carnegie say when he found 
someone had broken into the steel mil! ?
31
Give at least 4 ways to determine the height of 
the Cathedral of Learning with a barometer.
32
"A rolling stone gathers no moss' means:
(a) None of the Rolling Stones smoke mari
juana.
(b) Shifting stones around in a rock garden 
prevents weeds.
(c) Rock collections don't appreciate in value 
with time.
(d) Stay in your groove to do your thing.
ANSWERS TO THESE PROBLEMS 
APPEAR ON PAGE 14

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14TARTANNovember 15, 1977
THE ANSWERS
1
2
The messenger is a truth teller. If the native 
in the distance lived on the western side of the 
island, and was therefore a truth teller, he would 
say so. If, on the other hand, the native in the 
distance lived on the eastern side of the island and 
was therefore a liar, he would say the same thing.
3
There are 10 birds and 20 animals The prob
lem may be expressed in equation form as 
follows, letting A represent animals and B rep
resent birds:
A+B=30
4A+2B=100
4
The symbols are mirror images of the numbers 1. 
2,3,4,5, and this can be seen if you only look at 
the right half of each symbol. Therefore, the next 
symbol is a mirror imaged number 6.
White
6
T=1, W=3, 0=8, H=9, E=4 R=0 
(138x138=19044)
7
The fly traveled two miles.
8
three
9
Line AC is one diagonal of the rectangle. The 
other diagonal is clearly the 10-unit radius of the 
circle. Since the diagonals are equal, line AC is 
10 units long
10 
40 mph.
11
The assumption that the "lady" is Jean Brown, 
the stenographer, quickly leads to a contradic
tion. Her opening remark brings forth a reply 
from the person with black hair, therefore 
Brown's hair cannot be black. It also cannot be 
brown, for then it would match her name, there
fore it must be white, This leaves brown for the 
color of Professor Black's hair and black for Pro
fessor White. But a statement by the person with 
black hair prompts an exclamation' from -White, 
so they cannot be the same person.
It is necessary to assume, therefore, that Jean 
Brown is a man. Professor White's hair can's be 
white (for then it would match his or her name), 
nor can it be black because he (or she) replies to 
the biack-haired person. - Therefore. it must be 
brown. If the lady's hair isn't brown, then' Pro
fessor White is not a lady. Brown is a man, so 
Professor Black .must be the lady. Her hair 
can't be black or brown, so she must be platinum 
blonde.
12
The curious thing about the problem of the 
Flatz beer signs is that it is not necessary to know 
the car's speed to determine the spacing of the 
signs. Let x be the number of signs passed in one 
minute. In an hour the car will pass 60x signs. 
The speed of the car, we are told is 10x miles per 
hour. In 10x miles it will pass 60x signs, so in
one mile it will pass 60x/10x, or 6, signs. The 
signs therefore are 1/6 mile, or 880 feet, apart.
13
The rose-red city's age is seven billion years. 
Let x be the city's present age; y, the present age 
of Time. A billion years ago the city would have 
been x1 billion years old and a billion years 
from now Time's age will be y + 1. The data in 
the problem permit two simple equations: 
2x = y
x1 = 2/5 (y + 1)
These equations give x, the city's present age, a 
value of seven billion years; and y, Time's present 
age, a value of fourteen billion years. The prob
lem presupposes a "Big Bang" theory of the 
creation of the cosmos.
14
About 5% inches.
15
99/9 -9/9=10
16
The first man, whether or not he is an islander, 
did say he is white. (Either he is white and there
fore tells the truth, or he is an islander and lies; 
the result is the same in either case.) The second 
man accurately reports what the first man said, so 
we know the rest of his statement is also true. 
Therefore he is white and the first man is white.
17
18 *
c. %
19The picture is not of a submarine, but it is the Pitt 
tower, which fell to the ground Saturday morning 
in the wake of the Morewood Gardens explosion.
20
21
d*
22Harry is the pitcher. Alien the catcher, Paul the 
first baseman, Jerry the second baseman, Andy 
the third baseman, Ed the shortstop, Sam the le ft 
fielder, Mike the right fielder, and Bill the center 
fielder.
23
The one labeled "Apples and Oranges."
24
17 men, 13 women, 90 children
25
jSloria loves Arthur
26
27
All eight words contain three consecutive letters 
of the alphabet.
28
c
30
There is nothing to steal but steel itself.
31
Melt down the glass, and make a marble. Drop it 
from the top, and measure the height it bounced 
with respect to {he building, then use the coef
ficient of elasticity.
Sell the barometer, invest the money, and develop 
a financial empire. With your new found wealth, 
buy the Cathedral, have it cut down, and measure 
it.
Drop the barometer from the top, and see how 
long it takes to fall at an acceleration rate of 
32ft/sec2. 
Take the barometer down to the basement, find 
the janitor. Offer him a "fine barometer" if he 
will tell you how tall the Cathedral is.
32
6_________________________________________________'
OVER 2.03 % of the students at CMU read the
TARTAN FOUO

---------------------------------------------------

ENTERTAINMENTJAMES COTTON: A NATURAL FORCE
A Concert Review 
Band: John Mayall and James 
Cotton
by McKinley Sledge
Under normal conditions, I favor a 
certain amount of objectivity in any at
tempt at reviewing a performance. I am 
not one of those writers who feels com
pelled to tell the public how high I was, 
what my clever friend said, or what the 
Lyrics made me think about. I appre
ciate good Gonzo Journalism; I just cant 
write it.
But, I defy anybody to remain objec
tive about a concert which starts two hours 
late, the sound system never works proper
ly, and in an auditorium whose acous
tics and seating arrangements might be 
loosely termed as disastrous! I think it 
quite likely that the Skibo Ballroom might 
be a wonderful place to play Roller Derby. 
It is not a wonderful place to play music. 
Or hear it.
I admire the ingenuity and audacity 
of the AB people. Brass Balls have always 
been a prerequisite for success. Im re
minded of P.T. Bamums famous sign, 
This way to the Egress. When cur
ious crowds thronged through the doors to 
see the rare Egress, they found them
selves outside counting their change. 
Precisely the effect one gets having paid 
5 dollars to stare at the back of someones 
head and listen to feedback. As a member 
of the press, I got in free, and I still want 
my money back. Its possible that, if AB 
managed a Beatles reunion concert and 
held it in Skibo, I might attend. But it 
would be a difficult choice.
Since I have never been one to dis
parage where I could encourage, I must 
say that the lights were very well done.
Get the idea? Right, on to the concert.
I have been a fan of James Cotton for 9 
years now. In 1968 I went to a Rock 
Festival in Hallandale, Florida to see 
The Box Tops. I stood and shouted for 
The Letter, along with a crowd of other
16 year olds. They played it and we were 
all happy. I was about to leave when I 
heard something happening on a stage in 
the other area. It sounded like a riot. 1 
vent over for a peek. It was James Cotton, 
I stayed to listen and forgot all about The 
Box Tops. I have managed to see James 
Cotton at least once every year since
John Mayall in performance at AB Concert.
then, although I have never seen The 
Box Tops again. Cotton is the only reason
I stayed until 1230 to hear the beginning 
of a 1030 concert.
The many times I have seen James 
Cotton perform, his band always plays a 
number before the man comes on. This 
time was no exception. But to my sur
prise, They did not chum through an old 
R&B standard, but drifted into a Miles 
Davis tune from the Kind of Blue album. 
Odd choice, I thought. But they did it 
justice, and more. Of all the bands Cotton 
has assembled, this could well be the best. 
They are tight and driving, and they spark
le. The opening number showed some 
magnificent guitar work, and the rest of 
the band stepped out in high fashion 
behind. No doubt the flute solo was 
good too, but since the sound people never 
quite got that microphone working, I 
couldnt say. In any case, the audience was
primed and ready to go off when the num
ber ended. Suddenly and dramatically 
a harp rift came from nowhere, the band 
started blasting, and there was James 
Cotton.
I speak from a position ot Jeep pre
judice when I tell you that James Cotton 
is not a man, but a natural force. You 
dont hear him so much as you exper
ience him. He steps on stage and the 
tide comfcs in. He sings and the earth 
trembles. And when he plays his harp, we 
can all be sure of the best harvest in recent 
years. He puts out so much energy and 
plain old good vibes that you know every
thing will be alright. When Cotton is rock
ing, nobody can stay seated. When hes 
playing the blues, you respond by laughing 
and saying, Thats right. It is a cele
bration of life just listening. This is why I 
see him at least once a year; for therapy. 
Im sure I would have joined the waiting
line at the Panther Hollow bridge years 
ago otherwise.
Fortunately, for my self-esteem, every: 
one seemed to agree with me. Many peo
ple who came to see John Mayall left hav
ing seen James Cotton. As an expert, I 
do wish he had played a bit more harp, 
and stayed a little closer to his traditional 
stomping grounds of R&B. He has had the 
tendency, in the past few years, to sneak 
over into rock, soul, and funk. This might 
win him a few new fans, but to a patriot 
like me, it is distressing (just a tad) to 
watch the last of the great independent 
Blues men sneak into pop.
As for John Mayall, I will be brutally 
honest and tell you I only stayed for three 
numbers. After these three, it was 2:30 in 
the morning, the sound people still didnt 
have their program together, and Mayalls 
brand of ego no longer appealed to me,L -In the first place, any band that follows 
James Cotton has to be pretty damn good. 
But to follow James Cotton and announce, 
Were going to be better, they had better 
have Gabriel playing trumpet for them. 
Mayall didnt. After a luke-warm opening 
number in which he danced about without 
a shirt, he announced, We want a bit more 
applause than that. Yes, John. But we 
want a bit more music first.
The next two numbers revealed several 
things. First, Mayall is still a competent 
musician. Second, he still thinks of him
self as a great one. Third, he seems to have 
lost his ability to drive a band and him
self to perfect clarity and mystical tight
ness which made all his faults acceptable in 
the past. This band was sloppy and ragged. 
They were flashy rather than brilliant. 
The incredible musician-ship of the 
Turning Point or Fusion bands was 
no longer apparent. In short, John Mayall 
has reached another turning point in his ca
reer, where he can either get back to his 
old stingent standards and continue to 
grow, or he can become another has-been. 
It would be too bad to see someone who 
has been such a dynamic force in expand
ing the horizons of Rock fad away, but this 
seems to be where Mayall is headed.
Of course, the whole concert might 
have turned around and become brilliant 
after I left, but I was not by any means the 
First to leave.
Besides, The Sound System STILL 
wasnt working right.PARALLELS: PAINTING AND PHOTO
An Art Review 
Artists:Vivian Kerstein and Mark 
Segal 
Gallery: Forbes Street Gallery 
by Jim Burford
The Foroes Street Gallery is currently 
exhibiting the work of Vivian Kerstein 
and Mark Segal. The show presents some 
very interesting parallels between the two 
artists pieces. The artists have been work
ing in entirely different media: Kerstein 
in painting, drawing, and printmaking; 
Segal in photography.
Vivian Kerstein uses an idiom related 
both in draftsmanship and color to that 
of the 19th century illustrators. This
gently archaic idiom allows her early work 
to take on a very charming and transucent sense of surface. Two of her earlier 
Irawings, Women in the Bathtub and 
Windows, are reminiscent of Degas use of 
genre scenes incorporating people caught 
in daily activities. In Kersteins case, the 
scenes act as a vehicle to introduce the 
contradictions in deep and flat planes 
in space.
This is very remmoent also of the 
Japanese woodblock print, which was 
a major influence on the Impressionist 
n applying flat linear space. There is even 
an indication of the Japanese influence 
of flat linear space that becomes a major 
element in her more recent compositions. 
These early drawings play with deep and 
shallow space in an enticing yet naive 
fashion. Its as if she were exploring her 
own technical capacity to pull off an 
iUusion. A kind of now you see itnow 
you dont. Although these early drawings 
have a Beaux-Arts air about them, they 
command respect for their craftsman
ship if not for their content.
In her more recent works there is a 
much more exciting development in her
handling of surface and parallel illusions. 
The large verticle drawings of My Room, 
and My Rooms Variation, exhibit a deeper 
concern for a more sophisticated under
standing of the problems with flat linear 
space. Both drawings pictorially consist 
pf a section of a room. The room is strip
ped of all furniture except for floor, 
walls, and ceiling. There is an indentation 
in the wall which has what looks to be a 
bay window. The image of the room 
is repeated on the vertical in ascending and 
descending progressionin some or part, 
one ontop the other. Each room is divided 
compositionally by large cross contour 
flat planes drawn in isometric and geo
metric progressions.
The Rooms when taken at First glance 
seem to be no more than a patterned 
sequence of an interior. But on closer 
examination they shift delicately from 
one space to the next becoming dis
tinctly individual rooms. The rooms draw 
on the question of perimeter and boun
daries which define them. These drawings 
are handled with skill and are easily her 
finest pieces.
Unfortunately, Kersteins paintings 
based on the drawing of My Room convey 
none of the vigorous quality that the 
drawings capture. However, the paintings 
show an interesting surrealistic tonal 
quality with her use of color.
Mark Segals panoramic photographs 
offer a sharp contrast to the accentuated 
verticalky of Kersteins drawings. Most 
of his subject matter deals with the Wash
ington, D.C. vicinity. The camera he 
uses can take a 360 degree panorama. 
The edges of the photographs often be
come perspectively destroyed. Segal util
izes this effect to force the spectator to 
use peripheral vision, as well as central 
vision, which spotlights one area after the 
other in linear time. By utilizing the 
periphery, he takes subliminal notice of 
marginal objects and movement. The eyes 
are not focused on any object for any 
length of time, but merge and flow with 
the surroundings. A few of his works 
remind me of Eadweard Muybridges
continueo on peg* 16
VOl  IN SENATE EJECTIONSNOV. 17 & 18

---------------------------------------------------

Page TTtA'ftYf Tsl ovfri bef 15; 1977 M
YOU NEED A RIDE TO 
THE AIRPORT?
A PHI 0 IS RUNNING 
ITS SHUTTLE BUS 
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 23,1977
LEAVEMOREWOOD 
11:45 A.M. 
2:15 P.M. 
4:45 P.M.
DONNER 
Noon 
2:30 P.M. 
5:00 P.M.
$1.50 
MAKE CHECKS 
PAYABLE TO 
KAPPA CHAPTER OF 
ALPHA PHI OMEGA
Make reservations 
MOREWOOD DESK SKIBO
at
INFO DESK
ANOTHER A PHI O SERVICE
NEW SEASON AT THEATRE EXPRESS
Theatre Express, the national touring 
repertory company which opened its first 
season here last year, announces its new 
1977-78 season along with new extended 
performances for the Pittsburgh area. The 
one and a half year old company is into its 
second season with a schedule of three 
new American plays which will be per
formed November 3 thru December 30 
at both Chatham College and at Calvary 
Methodist Church in Allegheny West on 
the North Side.
Award winning director, Word Baker, 
creator of the original production of 
Fantasticks in New York and one of the 
foremost directors in the country is di
recting the new comedy Son of Arlecchino 
by Leon Katz. Artistic Director, William 
Turner directs his own script and score of 
The Unlit Corridor-A Horror Story. And 
Jed Harris, director from Milwaukee, 
stages Leon Katz adaptation of The Mar
quis de Sades Justine, a drama.
Leon Katz, whose work as an author 
and director has appeared at the Judson 
Poets Theatre, Theatre for the New City, 
and ETC La Mama in New York, has 
taught at Cornell, Columbia, Vassar, Stan
ford, San Francisco State and most re
cently at Camegie-Mellon University before 
moving to the University of Pittsburgh 
where he now heads the unique 99 cent
Floating Theatre.
After a successful initial season the com
pany has been selected to showcase its 
work for the National Entertainment Con
vention to be held here November 19th at 
the William Penn Hotel.
The company has been awarded its first 
grant from the Pennsylvania Council on 
the Arts and also from the City of Pitts
burgh adding to a growing list of public 
and private sponsors.
Theatre Express has moved its head
quarters to the Mattress Factory, an art
ists community in a renovated warehouse 
located in the Mexican War Street Section 
of the North Side. Sculptress Barbara Luderowski has created a working/living en
vironment for sculptors, painters, weavers, 
and the performing arts in which there 
exists a rare communication among artists 
and art forms. Theatre Express hopes to 
continue to be an active participant in the 
development of both the arts in the greater 
Pittsburgh area and in the growth of the 
North Side.
For information on dates, places, and 
ticket prices for upcoming performances 
by Theatre Express please call 322-4671.
FORBES CONT'D...
continued from page 15
early studies of high speed action photos 
of the human figure in motion that were 
done during the late 19th century. There 
seems to be a combination of documenta
tion and personal reporting in the selec
tion of various subjects.
One of the most outstanding works 
in the show is a group portrait titled 
The 4th PGC, U.S.A. Study Group. If 
ever there was a contemporary of Manets 
Dejeuner sur L'Herbe, this has to be the 
photographic parody of it. The photograph 
shows a group of Japanese photographers 
being enticed and disrupted by what looks 
to be the studio nude model. She 
cavorts in and out of the group setting, 
appearing simultaneously in the photo
graph in several different positions. What 
would be the normal dull group portrait 
is expanded into new areas of performance 
and time-space relationships.
Segals other panoramic scenes exhibit 
his eye for harmonious and often beau
tiful compositions. If they lack originality, 
they are adventuresome. For the images 
constantly question assumed visual exper
iences and place them in a new framework.
Jim Burford is a graduate student at CMU 
in painting*' # 
'I ....... -il......-I- i  i i
Painting t)y Vivian kerstein now on display 
at the Forbes Street Gallery.
A scene from Unlit Corridor at Theatre Express.
+++++++++++?+++++++++++++++++++++++?+ 
GIVE BLOOD-NOV. 16 AND 17-SKIBO 11,12
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++-* 
VOTE IN SENATE ELECTIONS-NOV. 17 & 18
If you have questions, comments, suggestions, or criticisms about FOOD SERVICE,

---------------------------------------------------

November 15, 1977-TAR TAN-Page 17
THE TALKING HEADS OF PUNK ROCK
t%NOSM K M r/ <hpf U*MwUj j-<uc- Mi*t t+t ncwi- tn UksHtov
A Record Review 
Album: Talking Heads '77 
Artists: The Talking Heads
by David C. Lucas
The Talking Heads are one of the hand
ful of New Wave rock groups which, 
along with Patti Smith, Blondie, and The 
Voideids, found their audience at CBGBs 
nightclub in New York City.
David Byrne, the lead singer and song
writer, attended Rhode Island School of 
Design with Martine Weymouth (bass), 
and Chris Franz (drums). When the trio 
made their debut in New York City, they 
immediately found a cult following. A 
fourth member, Jerry Harrison, who plays 
guitars and keyboards, was an original 
member of another cult band, the Modern 
Lovers.
Although the Talking Heads are not a 
household word in America, they have 
had triumphant success in Europe. But if 
their first album, Talking Heads '77 receives 
the attention it deserves, success will 
certainly come.
While the new wave sound is most often 
associated with punk rock, the Talking 
Heads sound is more refined, more calm. 
It is not without its own energy, however. 
There are no extraneous sounds or distor
tions to muddy the crisp production and 
the tunes are fantastic in their simplicity. 
The only possible link to punk lies in the 
fact that lead singer David Byrnes voice 
has an untrained quality. He reaches 
beyond both ends of his normal range, 
producing wobbly moans and pubescent 
squeals. His emotional tone runs the gamut 
from deranged to lovestruck to hopelessly 
optimistic.
Byrne also wrote all but one of the 
eleven tunes on the album. Often his 
choice of words reflects an intrinsic intellectualism. Tentative Decisions and No
Compassion use so many multisyllabic 
terms that their lyrics read like an ASE 
text. Psycho Killer mixes in French for 
effect. Other songs have words which are 
Romper-Room-simple. In Dont Worry 
About the Government, Byrne chimes: 
I see the pinecones that fall by the high
way I Thats the highway that goes to the 
building I Thats the building that Im 
going to live in / (Its over there) ... I 
will relax with my loved ones . . . loved 
ones, loved ones / visit the building / Take 
the highway, park, and come up and see 
me.
Musically, Talking Heads '11 is brilliant. 
Each member of the quartet is an able 
musician, but its the sheer simplicity of 
their playing that shines through. The 
guitarsmanship is uniformly crisp and extra 
instruments like steel drums are used spa
ringly to enhance the mood.
The Book I Read runs stock Disco 
rhythms under a hot piano and organ track 
by Harrison. Byrnes vocal is queerly sen
sual, and he pulls the best nah nahs 
since Steam. The childish feeling of Dont 
Worry About the Government is under
lined by the see-saw percussion and the 
delicacy of its mandolins.
First Week / Last Week . . . Carefree 
reaches back to Herb Alpert and the 
Tijuana Brass for its influences. The most 
unusual of the tunes is Tentative Decisions. 
The combination of wooden percussion 
and atonal melodies with military drums 
and firm male voices makes the tune sound 
like a Marine invasion of a Geisha House. 
Byrnes voice is most supremely pubescent
in this instance, cracking at the middle of 
each line.
Who Is It? is fantastically idiotic. In 
the duration of 1:41, the Unes who is it? 
and what is it? are repeated eight times 
apiece. The subtleties of phrasing are de
lectable, as in the one little yelp Byrne lets 
out at the end of the chorus. The 60s 
guitar is similarly refreshing.
If any of the new wave groups make 
it with the general listening public, the 
Talking Heads should be it, not because 
they have a message or project a striking 
image (in fact, their image is very New 
England Prep), but because they make 
great music. And as far as Rock is con
cerned, thats just what the doctor ordered.
David C. Lucas attended a concert given 
by The Talking Heads on Halloween night 
at Antoninos on Craig Street in Pitts
burgh. The following is a brief review of 
that concert.
On October 31st, Halloween night, An
toninos of Craig Street featured a concert 
with the Talking Heads. Attendance was 
moderate, with many Pittsburghers not 
having ever heard of The Heads, much 
less knowing what they sound like. A good 
proportion of the audience was attired 
in their Trick or Treat finery and a lesser 
number sported Gotham Punk garb.
As a cruel seasonal joke, the manage
ment had scheduled Smokey Joe, a 
clown-suited pentagenarian who told stale 
jokes and ate fire, as the warm-up act. 
After Joe was extinguished, the Talking 
Heads marched onto stage with little ado 
and went right into their tunes. Because of 
the simplicity of the arrangements and the 
veritable lack of studio tampering, the live 
music had the same freshness as the album. 
The instrumental work was carried out 
with flair and fervor. Byrnes singing 
retained it s rough edge although his 
phrasing differed slightly from that on 
record. Obviously, the group has a large 
casche of unrecorded songs, as half of the 
material played isnt contained on the 
album. (The only unoriginal song was by 
A1 Green).
The one disappointment was their 
lack of stage presence. If I hadnt spoken 
to David Byrne earlier in the day, I 
wouldve sworn that he was brain damaged. 
His conversations with the audience were 
almost entirely limited to This next 
song is called-------------
This engagement was of special sig
nificance to Chris Frantz, the drummer. 
Originally from the Shadyside area, 
this was his first visit to Pittsburgh since 
the release of the album. His mother 
went along on the promotional visits in 
Oakland, giving matronly inquisitions to 
the few who showed up to see the group. 
The impact of the Pittsburgh visit is 
summed up in something I said to Mrs. 
Frantz : Its a shame that local tastes
promote the perpetuation of AM-radio 
schlock, while allowing innovative and 
energetic music by the likes of the Talking 
Heads to go unrecognized.
call the FOOD SERVICE DIRECTORS HOT LINE, X2127, Monday 5pm-6pm.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18-TARTANNovember J 5, 1977
SEARCHING FOR MR. GOODBAR
A Film Review 
Film: Looking For Mr. Goodbar 
Director : Richard Brooks
by Joan Livitski
Looking For Mr. Goodbar is appro
priately titled, maybe too directly so. 
We can too easily sense the ending at the 
very onset of the film with the rest of the 
movie just showing the development of 
the inevitable.
The movies storyline traces Theresa 
Dunns (Diane Keaton) life with the in
tention of showing how this directly re
sults in her death. This is impossible. Her 
murder is a senseless, coincidental event 
and to try and make it appear inevitable 
seriously flaws the film.
One of the most wothwhile qualities 
of the film is its symbolic use of cinema
tography. The opening flashes a series of 
black and white still photos, setting up an 
illusion of uneasiness. One can now 
deduct what will follow and need only wait 
for the means, or more precisely, the 
person, of execution. As always, one 
finds the moviemaker exploiting the ideas 
of sex and violence.
When Terrys death finally happens, 
it is treated with a similar kind of photo
graphic approach. Instead of still photos, 
we are kept in the realm of film and yet 
get the same uneasy aura. It was a wise 
choice, one of the few, to use only a 
strobe light to illuminate Theresas apart
ment in this scene so we once again get the 
visual image of black and white Stills.
To emphasize the ominous significance 
of the regression to black and white, we 
are also shown a series of black and white 
photographs when Terry talks about a 
painful childhood experience. She under
goes a traumatic spinal operation which 
leaves her scarred physically while the 
other scenes emphasize her emotional 
scars.
With each new lover Theresa takes on, 
we are led to believe that this may be the 
one. But instead, we wait and wait 
through many affairs until we not only no 
longer care, but actually hope for her 
mutilation. She is seen through many dan
gerous, even threatening situations, yet 
always is able to return to her seat at the
bar unscathed. The suspense is meant to 
mount and mount, yet we hear Wolf 
cried so often that the result is an anticlimactic ending.
Terry Dunn as portrayed by Diane 
Keaton, instead of being a woman with 
the problem of needing to be loved, is 
turned into a sex-starved neurotic out foi 
a tix. for her sister, Katherine, played by 
Tuesday Weld, Terry is the Rock of Gi
braltar. But when it comes to her own 
life and affairs she is crumbling shale.
Mirrors are placed in room settings 
giving varied perspectives. Theresas 
first love affair with her professor, shows 
her first fantasizing about it by visualizing 
it in the mirror. Too often these wishful
events of Terry overshadow and distract 
from the reality of the story. In some 
cases, the distinction isnt kept clear and 
one is left wondering if the events are in 
her head or out.
There tends to be too much emphasis 
placed on her self-destructiveness and 
sexual fantasies. We get the impression 
that there is much too much wrong with 
Theresa. This leaves for little if any con
trast to the one really psychologically dis
turbed character, the killer, played by Tom 
Berenger. When one sees his reactions 
compared to Katherines, and Terrys, 
and her one supposed normal lover James, 
he appears totally justified in his defensive 
behavior. All he is doing is protecting 
his sense of worth by proving and defend
ing his masculinity. This attitude doesnt 
vary much from Katherines search for 
purpose through social climbing by using 
every feminine trick in the books. She 
in herself is enough to set NOW into a 
frenzy.
James, played by William Atherton, 
gives the impression of being the only 
non-neurotic in the whole film. He keeps 
everything under control when Terrys 
father (Richard Kiley) ends up in the 
hospital and she is strung out on drugs. 
But as soon as Theresa is once again able to 
go on with her madcap rampage at the 
singles bars and he is rejected, James takes 
a turn. He becomes a pathetic, dejected 
lover, obsessed with the idea of winning 
Terrys love, even if it means sitting in his 
car outside her apartment days on end.
Looking For Mr. Goodbar is a movie 
you should go to see, at least if you want 
to hear the thousand and one ways Ms. 
Keaton can utter Oh, God while making 
love.

---------------------------------------------------

VENTS
MUSIC
An international program, featuring Ameri
can, German and Russian composers, has 
been announced by the Pittsburgh Sym
phony for its City Concert, Wednesday, 
November 23, 8 PM in Heinz Hall. Ad
mission is free to city residents only for the 
City Concerts, funded by the citys Per
forming Arts Program.
For the 16th year the City of Pitts
burgh is sponsoring four free concerts by 
the Pittsburgh Symphony, the last of 
which will take place in early summer in 
Schenley Park.
An evening of great music is scheduled for 
St. Paul's Cathedral, Oakland, for Sunday, 
November 20, at 8:30 PM. The event 
marks the fifteenth anniversary of the ded
ication of the world-famous Beckerath 
Organ. The concert is free and open to the 
public. For information call 621-8515.
A free Pittsburgh Symphony concert, pre
sented under the auspices of the City of 
Pittsburgh for city residents only, will take 
place in Heinz Hall on Wednesday, Novem
ber 23 at 8 PM, Donald Johanos con
ducting. This is the 16th year of the free 
city concerts which are funded by' grants 
from the Citys Performing Arts Program.
This season the exciting organ recital 
series at Carnegie Music Hall, Carnegie 
Institute will feature prominent Pittsburgh 
musicians as guest soloists along with the 
scheduled organists.
The concerts, given every third Sunday 
of each month from October to March, 
at 3 o'clock provide a leisurely afternoon 
of family enjoyment in the beautiful 
setting of the Music Hall.
^he American musical legend Fred Waring 
and his 30 dynamic Young Pennsylvanians 
will present a 2lA hour variety show en
titled Its All About Love at Heinz Hall on 
Wednesday, December 7 at 8 PM.
Tickets to see these dazzling perform
ances in the Fred Waring Show are $8, $7, 
and $6 on sale at Heinz Hall, Gimbels, 
Sears, Kaufmanns and Horness. Discount 
information is available by contacting Ms. 
kNancy Sieber at (412) 281-8185.
A brilliant cast of twelve actors has now 
^opened the second production of the 
Pittsburgh Public Theater season. George 
Bernard Shaws hilarious farce You Never 
Can Tell. Directed by John Going, whose 
production of One Flew Over The 
Cuckoos Nest for the Public in 1975 
won resounding acclaim, the play opened 
at the Northsides Allegheny Theater on 
November 9.
Set on Englands sunny Devon shore 
in the 1890s, this funniest of all Shaw 
plays is a gem of mistaken identities and 
romantic entanglements. The plot centers 
on a thoroughly modern woman who 
returns to England with her children1 
after a 20-year absence. The resulting 
encounter with her husband, as well as 
her daughters budding romance with a 
poor dentist, provide the vehicle for 
uproarious laughter.
Playing Mrs. Clandon, Shaws woman 
of the twentieth century, is Avril 
Gentles, whose performance as Mrs. 
Gibbs in Chicagos Goodman Theatre 
production of Our Town won her the 
Joseph Jefferson Award.
Joanna Simons magnificent mezzo, ex
traordinary musicianship and dramatic 
presence will be featured in a Y Music 
Society recital at the Jewish Community 
Center in Oakland on Sunday, Nov. 13, 
at 8 PM. For tickets to the Joanna Simon 
recital call the Y Music Society of the Jew
ish Community Center at 521-8010.
Shlomo Carlebach, the bearded, singing 
*bbi who combines Biblical lyrics with 
Israeli folk-flavored guitar music, arrives 
at Heinz Hall for one performance only 
Sunday, November 27, at 8 PM. The 
New York Times earlier noted the enthusiastic and affectionate response he 
earns from his audiences. He has the 
people with him. 
The Vienna Choir Boys will perform one 
concert in Heinz Hall on November 21 at
8 p.m.
Tickets for this internationally re
known ensemble at $7, $6, and $5 on 
sale at Heinz Hall, Gimbels, Kaufmanns 
Hornes and Sears. Student, senior citizen, 
and group discounts are available by con
tacting Ms. Nancy Sieber at 281-8185.
William Steinberg, Music Director Emeritus 
of the Pittsburgh Symphony, returns to 
Heinz Hall to conduct the Orchestra in 
programs highlighting Brahms 3rd Sym
phony, the Sibelius Violin Concerto and 
Webers Overture to Abu Hassan in con
certs November 25-27Friday at 8:30 PM., 
Saturday at 8 PM and Sunday afternoon at 
2:30 PM. Russian-born violinist Boris 
Belkin will be guest soloist.
Attendance at Pittsburgh Symphony 
concerts is by season subscription only. 
While the season is sold-out, subscribers do 
sometimes turn back tickets to the Heinz 
Hall box office for resale. Information is 
available by phoning 281-5000.
The Pittsburgh Symphony Chamber Orch
estra and the Mendelssohn Choir of Pitts
burgh will present their annual holiday 
treat- three performances of George Fred
erick Handels beloved oratorio Messiah in 
Heinz Hall on Sunday, Monday and Tues
day, December 4, 5 and 6. Donald Johanos 
the Chamber Orchestra director, will con
duct.
Tickets are priced at $6.50, $5.50-and 
4.50. Information concerning group dis
counts is obtainable by phoning Ms. Nancy 
Sieber (412) 281-8185.
Playing Gloria, the daughter reared to 
follow in her mothers footsteps, is Erika 
Petersen, whose romance with the dentist 
Valentine, Ivar Brogger, is against all of 
Mrs. Clandons best-made plans. Miss 
Petersen most recently appeared as Mina 
in Commonwealth Stages production of 
Count Dracula. Mr. Brogger, who spent 
four seasons with the Tyrone Guthrie 
Theatre, created the memorable role of 
Harold in the Publics opening production 
of the season, Fathers Day.
You Never Can Tell by George Bernard 
Shaw opened at the Pittsburgh Public 
Theater on November 9 and plays through 
December 11. Tickets for the production 
are available by calling the box office 
at 323-1900.
The Pittsburgh Public Theatre has a 
student rush which enables students with 
ID to obtain a ticket one half hour before 
the house opens for only $2.50 if seats 
are available. There is usually a small 
line so get there at least a half hour before 
the show is scheduled to begin.
The TARTAN will be printing a review 
of the show in the next edition.
THEATRE
Once again this year, the Pittsburgh Play
house will host the Pittsburgh Savoyards 
when they present their opening produc
tion of the season, The Sorcerer, beginning 
Friday, November 11 at 8:30 PM in the 
Craft Avenue Theater. The Sorcerer is 
celebrating its centennial this year, having 
first been produced by Gilbert and Sullivan 
in 1877.%For further information, call the box 
office of the Pittsburgh Playhouse at
621-4445.
This week on Thursday, November 17th, 
Scotch 'N' Soda will present its first pro
duction of the 77-78 season. Three original 
1-act plays, by C-MU students will be per
formed in the Wherret Room, Skibo. Cur
tain is at 8:00 PM, Admission is free.
Camelot Productions current production 
of Follies will be held over for two weeks, 
through Nov. 20. Performances will con
tinue at 8:30 PM, Fridays and Saturdays 
and 7:30 PM Sundays. Reservations and 
ticket information may be obtained by 
calling Camelot Productions at 683-7770. 
Performances are held at the Plaza Theatre, 
4765 Liberty Avenue, Bloomfield (next to 
West Penn Hospital).
Bubbling Brown Sugar, the musical fan
tasia featuring the glamorous jazz age of 
Harlem in its heyday, which played before 
eight sold-out, intoxicated audiences in 
Heinz Hall two months ago, now returns in 
the same joyous, nostalgic, sparkling pro
duction to the same stage-with most of 
the same stars-to play three more shows... 
Tuesday at 8, December 13, and at both
2 PM and 8 PM on Wednesday, December 
14. Tickets for these three December per
formances are now on sale at Heinz Hall 
and area department stores, with mail
order information available by phoning 
281-5000; or for Group Discounts, 281- 
8185.
You Never Can Tell has opened at the 
Pittsburgh Public Theatre and will play 
through December 9. This is a wonderful 
production of the George Bernard Shaw 
play. For information call the box office 
at 323-1900. They have a student rush 
program where a stjident can obtain a 
ticket one half hour before curtain for only 
only $2.50. A review of this production 
will appear in the TARTAN next week.
CINEMA
AB will be presenting Mary Queen of 
Scots on Thursday, November 17 at 6, 
8:30 and 11 in Doherty Hall. Glenda Jack
son and Vanessa Redgrave star in this re
cent epic. Tickets are only .75 with an ID.
AB will be presenting The Sunshine Boys, 
a movie from the play by Neil Simon. Both 
George Bums and Walter Matthau give 
excellent performances. This is a very fun
ny film about the reunion of an old vaude
ville team. It will be shown in Doherty Hall 
at 6 and 8:30 on Friday, November 18. 
Tickets are one dollar with an ID.
SDC will be presenting Mel Brooks The 
Producers. This is an early film of Brooks 
when his comedy still had an element of 
pathos to it. Zero Mostel and Gene Wilder 
star. It will be shown in Doherty Hall on 
Saturday, November 19 at 6, 8:30and 11. 
Its free with ID.
The Carnegie Institute sponsors several 
films a week in their building down in 
Oakland. Admission is always one dollar.
Call the film section of Carnegie Institute 
at 622-3212.
The Chatham Film Society at Chatham 
College will sponsor independent film
maker Stan VanDerBeek in an illustrated 
lecture/discussion entitled An Essay in 
Media on Sunday, November 13, at 8 PM. 
The program will be held in the Media Cen
ter viewing room, located in the basement 
of Braun Hall on the Chatham campus. 
It is open to the public; there is an admis
sion charge of $1.
Kleider machen Leute, a German film 
based on a novel by Gottfried Keller, will 
be shown on Wednesday, November 16 at
7 PM in Doherty Hall room 2210. There 
is no charge. Open to everybody.
ART
The Hewlett Gallery, located in the Build
ing of Fine Arts, will be exhibiting a show
ing of paintings by Clayton Pond, a CMU 
graduate. Mr. Pond is a painter and printer 
who has exhibited internationally; he will 
be on campus for the opening and several 
lectures. The exhibition runs from Novem
ber 1 to 18. Gallery hours are Monday 
thru Friday, 11:00 to 4:00.
An exhibition of paintings by Marilyn 
Bruya is now on display at the Jennie King 
Mellon Library Gallery on the Chatham 
College Campus. It will close on November 
30. Gallery hours are from 2 to 5 PM, 
Tuesday thru Sunday and Friday from 7 
until 9 PM.
MISC.
TGIF will be holding their dance in the 
Skibo Ballroom on Friday, November 18 
from 9:30 until 12:30. The band is Brick 
Alley Band.
On Friday, November 18, The Alternative 
Coffeehouse will feature an Open Stage 
night, and welcome all interested musi
cians, vocalists, poets, comedians, and dan
cers to its stage. For information, please 
call 682-6886.
The Kathryn Posin Dance Company will 
return to Pittsburgh for two performances 
at the Stephen Foster Memorial Theatre on 
Friday and Saturday, December 2 and 3 at 
8:00 PM.
Tickets are available at the Pitt Student 
Union and the Pittsburgh Dance Council 
office, second floor, Heinz Hall. Discounts 
to students and senior citizens. For further 
information phone 355-0330.
La Sylphide, the bewitching ballet set in 
19th Century Scotland, will be presented 
by the Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre in Heinz 
Hall on November 18 and 19 at 8 PM and 
November 20 at 2:30 PM. Frederic Frank
lin has staged the ballet after the choreo
graphy of the famous Bournonville to the 
music of Herman Lovenskjold.
Tickets are available for all perform
ances and may be purchased at the Heinz 
Hall Box Office or charged to any of four 
major credit cards by calling 281-0360.
Poets John Ashbery and Andree Chedid 
will rt a thair poems for the International 
Poetry Forum on Wednesday, November
16, at 8:00 PM in Carnegie Lecture Hall.
Tickets for this reading are $3.00 and 
are availabe to students and senior citizens 
for $2.00. Tickets may be purchased at 
Kaufmanns, Sears, the Pitt Student Union 
and the Forum office in Carnegie Library, 
Oakland. For more information, call 621- 
9893.
The International Poetry Forum is 
sponsored by the Carnegie Library of Pitts 
burgh under a grant from the A.W. Mellon 
EHnratinnal anH r'haritahlA Tmst
PPT: SECOND SHOW

---------------------------------------------------

Pgl20^-tft1'N -Noveri ber5 5,197 7
The other SAE
Students reorganize society of Automotive Engineers
by Gregory Middleman
A school with alot of people going into 
the automotive field should have a viable 
chapter of the Society of Automotive En
gineers (SAE), stated Doug Turner, SAE 
president.
SAE is a national organization for stu
dents planning to go into the automotive 
field, with chapters on college campuses 
throughout the country. The organization 
offers students a chance to gain both prac
tical experience with automobiles, as well 
as general knowledge about the automotive 
field.
Turner is trying to reorganize the CMU 
chapter after  eight or nine years of in
activity. He added that attempts have been 
made over the past two or three years to 
revitalize SAE, but the organization has 
suffered from a lack of interest.
Turner commented that the club now 
has 25 active members. He said the club is 
open to all car enthusiasts.
Since the club is primarily a professional 
organization, however, full membership is 
limited to engineering and industrial design 
students.  But there are so many car en
thusiasts around, we offer an associate 
membership to people in other fields, 
Turner added.
The CMU chapter of SAE owns an 
older model Datsun 510, which the 
group works on, and enters in races. Right 
now, SAE needs mechanics to fix the car 
up. Turner mentioned that he is looking 
for mechanical engineering professors to 
give credit for work done on the SAE car.
The group is also considering entering 
the National SAE Baja Races, a buggy com
petition. Turner said SAE-CMU would 
build a buggy, costing about $1600, and
NEWS WRITING SEMINAR
Beginning today 12 Noon Skibo Room 50
We also provide original 
research - all fields. 
Thesis and dissertation 
assistance also available.
COLLEGIATE
RESEARCH
PAPERS
RESEARCH
Assistance 
ALL SUBJECTS
Choose from our library of 7,000 topics. All 
papers have been prepared by our staff of 
professional writers to insure excellence. Send 
$1.00 (air mail postage) for the current edition 
of our mail order catalog.
EDUCATIONAL SYSTEMS
P.O. Box 25916-E.
Los Angeles, Calif. 90025
Name __________________
Address 
State___Zip.
Spectroscopy Society of Pittsburgh 
November 16, 1977 
Dr. Lionel J. Bellamy 
Explosives Research & Development Establishment 
Waltham Abbey, Essex, England
SOME WIDER USES OF INFRARED GROUP FREQUENCIES 
8:30 PM Duquesne University 
Mellon Science Building, Maurice Falk Lecture Hall 
MEETING OPEN TO ALL INTERESTED
race it in the competition.
Additionally, SAE is participating in 
National Fuel Economy Month activities. 
The group plans to inform the public on 
fuel economy, especially as related to 
transportation, through a 3-part presenta
tion. Part two, to be presented tonight 
at 7 30 in the Scaife Auditorium, will 
deal with driving tips to save money. After
ttie presentation, a fuel economy quiz will 
be handed out. Part three will be present
ed next week, at the same time.
Turner hopes  to get SAE back on its 
feet. He cites support from the national 
office as a major incentive to regroup. 
Turner expects great things, because SAE - 
is a source of interest to those who really - 
want to learn about auto mechanics.
UFO reports good rush
By Elliot Ohlberg
Unified Fraternal Organization leaders 
say they are pleased with this years 
rush results. The rush was considered 
good because it brought more even dis
tribution among the houses. Pledge class 
per house ranged from 8 - 23 men, with 
17 the median. 7580% of those receiving 
bids, pledged, with 17% of the freshman 
class pledging. /
Ken Meinert elaborated on how ZBT 
racked up the 23. He stresses a one to one 
man rush. He said, we went out into the 
dorms and met all the freshman in two 
weeks. All the receptive freshman were 
put on a list. By far weeks we narrowed 
it down to 32 and those 32 received 
bids. Meinert continued, Pledge period 
is strict, but unnecessary things are not 
demanded. Pledges have to prove that 
they possess those qualities the house 
thought they had.
Matt Weinberg, UFO chairman of Rush 
this year, said, It was a good rush. Most 
houses felt the pledges were worthwhile 
(and that) contributed to this year showing 
a stronger Greek system. Weinberg 
added that even though official rush 
period is over (for this .term), anybody 
interested in a particular house to find
somebody in that house who will let the 
brothers know he is there.* nMark Levine also commented on other 
UFO activities. People have been assigned 
in each house to persuade everybody to 
donate blood on Wednesdays and Thurs
days blood drive. He urges widespread 
participation.
Levine stressed that UFO wants more 
unification in dealing for fraternity or 
sorority interests. For example, it would be 
cheaper to deal collectively with food 
distributors and music booking agents, 
He also said it becomes easier to deal with 
problems faced by fraternities if UFO 
and not the individual fraternities bring 
it to the attention of proper authorities, 
(such as Bill Dillon). Additionally, the 
Greek system is being brought closer 
together by the Happy Hour program. 
Every two weeks a different house acts 
as host for a party open to all Greeks.
Levine also commented that UFO has 
successfully toned down the parties this 
term. He pointed to less drinking outside 
the houses, and fewer people drinking 
enough to injure themselves. In general, 
he said, people have quieted down and no 
one is in danger of probation.
BUY THE
1978-THISTLE
Subscriptions to the 1978 yearbook 
will be sold in BAKER HALL 
lobby TUESDAY Nov. 15 through 
FRIDAY Nov. 18 from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.
BE AGGRESSjVE
LET YOUR. 
IMTERVIWE&. 
KSJW YOU 
WANT THE
Job!
AUTHOR.
(/AJLOVCV
I THINK THAT 
WILL BE ALL, V0UN6 
MAM. CAM I HAVE 
VOUR AVDR.ES S IN CASE 
T WAAJT YOU?
DEPEMS. CA/J 
I HAVE youRS IM CA3
YOU DOAJ ' T?

---------------------------------------------------

Govern ber-l&. .1977t*TABTANPage<21
Youll never know how much good you can do until you do it*
*
Felipe Maghirang knows how much good he 
can do He dues it every week as a volunteer at a 
home for mentally retarded children
Lawyer Barry Klickstein knows how much 
good he can do He does it by volunteering to help 
poor people win their rights in court
Volunteer Candy Richards knows how much 
good she can do She's doing it for the children at a 
neighborhood day care center
You can help people.
In fact, theres a crying need for you. Your talents. Your training. Your 
concerns. They can make you priceless as a volunteer in your community.
Take a moment to think of all that can be done. For children. The 
environment. Sick people. Old people. People who just need someone 
behind them.
Then take another moment to think of what you can do. Perhaps by 
applying your job skills or personal interests to voluntary action.
There are probably several organizations hard at work in your town 
doing things youd be proud to be part of. We'll put you in touch with them. 
Join one. Or, if you see the need, start a new one.
If you can spare even a few hours a week, call your local Voluntary 
Action Center. Or write:
Volunteer, Washington, D.C. 20013. Itll do you good to 
see how much good you can do.Yblunteen
The National Center for Voluntary Action

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
TARTANETTES TAKE TOURNAMENT FIRST
by Karen Eldridge
Early last Saturday morning, the CMU 
Womens Volleyball Team departed for 
the 1st Annual Pennwood West Con
ference Tournament. They returned from 
said tournament with the conference 
trophy approximately 13 hours later. 
What happened within those 13 hours was 
the cause of a seemingly contagious state 
of fingernail biting, acid stomach, sore 
throat and split ends, this excluding the 
few cases of mild nervous disorders.
The tournament commenced innocently 
enough with the seven teams dividing 
into 2 pools in order to gain a rank, or 
seeding. This is done to weed out the 
weaker teams in the play before entering 
into the semi-final or final play-offs. The 
ranking of the seven teams upon entering 
into the semi-final play-offs were: CMU 
(1), California State College (2), Washington-Jefferson College (3), Bethany College 
(4), Carlow College (5), Chatham College 
(6), and Seton Hill College (7).
CMUs first play-off game against
Bethany was at first no great cause for 
concern, as CMU had beaten Bethany 
earlier that morning. But Bethany rallied 
bravely to take the second game, forcing 
the teams into a third game, which CMU 
won 15-9. It was in the finals where the 
nerves were exposed and the tension made 
hearts beat faster, for instead of the 
stronger opposing team which had been 
expected (either California State or Washinton-Jefferson), Seton Hill stepped for
ward to claim their place in the finals.
This team, seeded 7th in a field of 
seven, had rallied and fought their way 
through the play-offs, winning every 
match, including that against California, 
to be the upstart of the tournament. 
CMU was a little taken back, as they had 
soundly beaten Seton Hill in the morning. 
But Seton Hill, apparently, had just 
been warming up-, and proceeded to give 
Carnegie-Mellon the best fight they had 
seen all day. They even proceeded to win 
the first game with a startling score of 
5-15. Surprised and disheartened the 
CMU team foundered in the early part of
the second game, with individual errors 
and nerves giving Seton Hill a 9-2 advan
tage. Thereafter, CMUs team put their 
act together and came from behind to take 
the game 15-9, with Seton Hill making no 
further progress in that game.
Come the third game, everyone was 
a mental case, and the teams were begin
ning to tire, their only source of energy 
being the feverish desire to end the game 
out on top. Contributing highly to CMUs 
scoring was Driana Davies, with hard short 
hits down the middle of the court, with 
Jennie Donaldson and Judy Parker giving 
their fair share of abuse on the left and 
right sides. Contributing highly to the 
detraction of CMUs scoring was the in
ability of the team to consistently put 
in all their serves, and Seton Hills relent
less returns.
Seton Hill did not have a strongly 
organized method of play, but their spon
taneity and freak returns managed to keep 
them neck and neck with CMU. Though 
CMU had definite patterns to their game, 
their play was frequently over-cautious,
resulting in errors where players wouldnt 
move because they felt someone else 
should have played the ball, or caught by 
surprise when the play went in a direction 
other than that which they had expected.
Seton Hill tried for everything, and this 
method almost won them the match. 
Unfortunately for Seton Hill, at 15-15, 
their coach, John Fogel, called for a 
substitution after the whistle had been 
blown for a serve, the resulting penalty 
being CMU getting the serve.
Consequently, CMU won the final 2 
points. The game ended with the two 
teams shaking hands, the coaches shaking 
heads and everyone shaking all together 
for the play had been long and strenuous 
and the suspense gruelingthe relief a 
grateful feeling. Representing CMU were 
Jenny Caster, Alrie Christian, Davina and 
Driana Davies, Jenny Donaldson, Karen 
Eldridge, Ingrid Goedicke, Crystal Hoff
man, Brandi Jackson, Judy Parker, and 
coach Jane Fisk.
"NCAA Nationals: A Humbling Experience With Nature
by Cre
Cross-country runners have always been 
in harmony with nature. As a sport 
that manifests the Thoreauvian virtues 
of simplicity, purity, and rusticity, 
cross-country is a very special experience. 
For those who compete, it is a compulr
Representatives
UNIVRSITY
OF
SOUTHERN
CALIFORNIA
to be on campus 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18
Graduate study information - all 
fields of Letters. Arts & Sciences 
and Engineering. Special em
phasis on Sciences, Math and 
Engineering.
Contact 
Career Services 
and Placement
si on that few resist. It is a love for hu
man competition, and usually the compe
tition with nature.
Amidst the cold and snow that over
took the Cleveland area last weekend, the 
NCAA Divisoon III National Cross-Coun
try Championship was held. Nature truly 
intended to dominate the contest, and it 
was successful. The combination of in
tense competition and natural barriers 
provided the epitome of challenges for 
the Carnegie-Mellon Harriers. The team 
responded as capably as it could, given 
the presence of many hindrances. Many 
outstanding efforts will go unacknow
ledged except for the individuals personal
realization. Every battle that each runner 
under took will serve only as a memory 
for what he confronted, each pain he 
accepted, or what frigid puddle he splashed 
in.
Team MVP Dario Donatelli had the 
maximum performance for the team, 
placing 122. Co-Captain Steve Faloon 
placed 183; Steve Crelli; 214. Co-captain 
Larry Gordon, Mark Tarantion, and Barry 
Vukoder each completed the grueling 
experience with satisfaction and self
esteem intact. These efforts are notably 
enhanced by mentioning that over fivehundred runners from around the country 
started the race.
BARGAIN BOOKS:
NEW SHIPMENT OF BARGAIN BOOKS! 
ART  CRAFTS  DESIGN  GAMES  TRAVEL
emu bookstoreAKER NALL
The course took the competitors for 
a five-mile appreciation of cold, snow, 
and ice. Each intended stride forward 
was greeted with soaked shoes, and freez
ing toes, or a sharp elbow in the ribs by 
some jostling, faceless runner at your 
shoulder. When the finishing chute blearily loomed in your eyes in the distance, 
it was a very welcome sight. You worked 
your way into the chute, waiting to he 
whisked through quickly and into the 
comforts of your sweats. As each of the 
surviving finishers will well remember, the 
wish was not granted soon enough.
After the race, the final state of bodily 
shock had lessened. Everyone came to 
realize what had happened. All felt the 
same pain, the same intense sensation 
of thawing feet. Each had accomplished 
something and realized what it had all 
demanded from us. But the real satisfac
tion, from the winner to the last finisher, 
lays with the fact that everyone had fun, 
and each felt a lot closer to the others 
when it was over. As one weary, de
feated runner put it : It may not be
fun when youre out there running, but 
it sure is fun when its over! 
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ 
VOTE IN SENATE ELECTIONS-NOV. 17 & 18
Occupied Spaces
by Brad Johannsen
48 full-color illustrations
8 Va  x 11*748 pages/$5.95 paper
The return of a great teom. Brad Johannsen and Harmony 
Books, bock together for OCCUPIED SPACES, a fabulous 
collection of contemporary art and commentary. This dynamic 
artist has been weaving another tapestry of illusion and in
sight, a powerful and personal visual drama of our drugoriented culture. As sensuous as it is shocking, Brad's eclectic 
artwork explodes in a riot of colors, styles, and motifs; for 48 
pages. Brad takes us on a kaleidoscopic trip through the in
credible dream images of his mind.
He illuminates this amazing visual experience with ex
cerpts from many different sources: songs by Joni Mitchell 
and The Jefferson Airplane, poems by Arthur Rimbaud, works 
of Nietzsche and Lewis Thomas. Simply, OCCUPIED SPACES 
must be seen to be believed, for this is modern illustration at 
the height of its imaginative powers.
emu bookstore
IN BAKER HALL
COLLEGE JUNIORSCOLLEGE SENIORS
NUCLEAR PROPULSION
The leading operator of Nuclear Reactors is currently seeking college juniors and seniors to serve as 
Nuclear Propulsion officers both on Nuclear Surface vessels and Nuclear Submarines upon graduation. In
terested candidates should be in pursuit of a Baccalaureate Degree with an engineering, pure science, or 
math major and have demonstrated ability in moth and physics courses. A minimum of one year of college 
physics and math through integral calculus with a "B" average or better in technical courses is required. Suc
cessful candidated will be paid up to $6,000 during their senior year of college and upon graduation and 
commissioning receive a year of graduate level Nuclear training and upon completion of this training you 
will receive a cosh bonus of $3,000. Nuclear Officers will be challenged by the entire spectrum of 
management and engineering responsibility as functioning Nuclear Engineers. Select applicants interested 
in teaching may be eligible for four year instructor positions at the Nuclear Propulsion School in OHando. 
Florida. Subjects taught may include mathematics, physics, electrical enginnering. heat transfer and fluid 
flow materials, chemistry, readiological controls and reactorplant engineering. A complete benefits 
package, personal growth and development and a starting salary as high as $16,000, including bonus for the 
first year. Salary after four years will approach $20,000.
If you have an interest in exploring any of the above programs, please call or write:
1000 Liberty Ave. U711
LT. JACK REEVES
Nuclear Programs Officer.
412-644-5896/5898
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15222

---------------------------------------------------

November 15, 1977-TARTAN-Paqe 23
F
O
O
T
B
A
L
L
R
E
V
I
E
W
(Top) The theme of the Allegheny halftime show 
was 'a leg up on them' and that is exactly what 
the TARTANS had on their opponents this year.
(Above) Bob Kennedy, a top candidate for All 
Conference honors, was never really as concerned 
as this picture shows. Kennedy guided the Tech 
Offense to an average of almost 400 total yards 
per game which placed CMU high in the Nations 
Offensive rankings.
(Left) Mike Kostic, a rookie performer shown 
here in action vs. Thiel, added a new dimension 
to the CMU squad and gave us something the 
Steelers don't havesolid kicking.
(Bottom) As it was apparent that CMU oppo
nents were not qualified for a clash on the grid
iron, a post game challenge of soccer?
ChessCorner
BY JOSEPH BARTNICKI
WHOROWITZ 
BWHITCOMB 
NEWBURYPORT, 1946
White to play and mate in three moves.
  !
tmt"l
Photos by Ramanan
aeul ax  
SN-8 M3 EN- Z 
NXd M3 9H-N I
Maloney Set 
To Show Off 
Hoop Team
Bob Firm
Coach Dave Maloney unveils his 
1977-78 edition of Carnegje-Mellon bas
ketball on Monday night November 21 at 
7 30 PM in the second annual Red-White 
Game at Skibo Gymnasium. The 16 man 
squad will be divided into two teams which 
will play under regular game conditions.
The Tartans, who will be a solid conten
der in the battle for a second consecutive 
Presidents Athletic Conference title, fea
ture All-American guard George Harvey, 
Leapin Les Harper, and dynamic Greg 
Chambers. Outstanding freshmen Joe 
Belechak and Buddy Hobart join returnees 
Pat Ward, Larry Hufnagel, Mariano 
DeFilippo, Mark James, and Mike Under
hill to form a solid nucleus in CMUs 
quest for a return trip to the NCAA 
playoffs.
Come out next Monday for an exciting 
evening of college basketball with the PAC 
champs, CMU Tartans.
N.VEM&tR
DISCUSSION: Advent
A Season of Symbols! 
Advent Wreath 
Jesse Tree 
Tuesday  8:00 p.m.
CMU's Chapel (Skibo39)SUNDAY MASSES:
7:00 P.M. Saturday Folk Mass ( Hunt Library
10:30 A.M. Folk Mass ( Multipurpose Room
12:00 Noon Solemn Liturgy ---- Heinz Chapel
DAILY MASSES Monday through Friday
12:30 Noontime CMU's Chapel (Skibo 39)
University Oratory of the Holy Spirit Parish 
CMU's R.C. Chaplaincy - Fr. Bob English 
4040 Bigelow Blvd. Pittsburgh, Pa. Ib213 
(412) 681-3181

---------------------------------------------------

A. B. COFFEEHOUSE AND 
UNIVERSITY FOOD SERVICE
- / _.
Presents:
IIAN EVENING OF MIME
AND MUSIC
IV
Featuring
CHRIS O'CONNOR 
& ANITA HOLLANDER
Saturday, November 19th
KILTIE CAFE
9:30 to 12:30
Introducing a Kiltie Special
"The Sandwich Everyone Will Be Talking About.''
All Drinks Are Halt Price.
