Vol. 69, No. 40C-MUFRIDAY, MARCH 6, 1970
5th Name Accepted on Ballot 
Salners Declares Candidacy
Jim Salners, Presidential Candidate
No More Thistle?
The withdrawal of funds from the Technical and the absence of a 
budget for a 1970-71 Thistle marked this year's budget hearings. On the 
basis of the Finance Committee's decision that the Technical did not 
benefit the campus community at large, the requested allocation of $5.- 
500 was cut to zero.
No budget was submitted for next year's Thistle by the present
staff.
The project budget for Student Senate is approximately $90,000 or 
one per cent of tution. The total allocations as recommended by the Fi
nance Committee amount to $62,164. or a cut of $8,725 from the amount 
requested by the 15 activities which submitted budgets.
ALL POSITIONS on the 
1970-71 TARTAN are Open!
APPLICANTS must submit a list of their qualifications for 
the position as well as a statement of why they want the 
position and what ideas they would bring to THE TARTAN. 
(Be specific.)
APPLICATIONS must be turned in to Erica Borden, Room 50, 
THE TARTAN by Friday, March 13th at 5:00 p.m.
STAFF MEMBERS will be available for consultation with all 
prospective applicants.
Join the TARTAN Staff! We Need You!
In a close vote Tuesday afternoon the Student 
Senate approved a request by Jim Salners to add his 
name to the ballot for the position of president of 
Student Government.
Although the Rules Committee of Student Senate 
had called for the petitions last Tuesday by 4:30 
p.m.. Salners claimed that he was unaware at that 
time of the fact that a candidate need not have been 
a member of the Senate for at least one year before 
being eligible to run for high office.
In addition. Salners argued that the four other 
candidates had agreed that his name should be 
placed on the ballot. During the Senate debate. Sal
ners further indicated that the Constitution states 
that petitions must be submitted within 21 days, but 
does not specify how long before the election a stu
dent must submit a petition.
The by-laws of Senate give the duty and respon
sibility for running the elections to the Rules Com
mittee. currently chaired by Bill Iacono. By approv
ing Salner s request, the Senate overrode their pre
vious consent of the deadlines as established by the 
Committee, though no constitutional amendment 
was necessary in order to accommodate the motion.
Salners Platform
Jim Salners. a junior Chemical Engineer, is run
ning on a platform of "the obvious answers to the 
following questions: Should students be given aca
demic credit for extra-curricular activities in re
lated fields? Can a disciplinary code, academic and 
non-academic, be set up and effectively run by stu
dents? Should the students have a say when the head 
of their departments fires prominent instructors, 
resulting in the departure of several other qualified 
professors? Are we taught effectively by profes
sors who have the publish or perish" axe hanging 
over their heads? Will the administration accept 
the up and coming Student Judicial System and other 
legislation?"
Other Candidates
Opposing Salners in his race for the presidency 
are Patrick Cavanagh. Vince Misitano. Laurel Polanick. and Mark Ruffner. Patrick, a second year 
psychology graduate student, graduated in Electri
cal Engineering from McGill University where he 
held positions in his fraternity and in Student Gov
ernment. While at C-MU, he has been chairman of 
Student Senate for the past year, as well as serving 
on President Stever's Policy Advisory Board and
many other committees. His platform includes plac
ing students where they can affect the academic en
vironment and to implement programs such as student-run discipline and a birth control clinic to bet
ter serve campus needs.
Vince Misitano, or, as he has become known to 
the campusVJ, is presently very active as a stu
dent senator, working both on the Finance Commit
tee and on the Publicity Committee (of which he is 
chairman). VJ believes that Student Government 
has taken many steps in the right directiontoward 
gaining a true student voice in all University ac
tions, both academic and administrative. VJ says, 
though, that he is concerned with lack of student in
terest in SG. and sees it as being a fault of the Sen
ate in not properly informing the student body of its 
work. He has definite plans for overcoming this lack 
of communication, and will be making them known 
soon.
Laurel Polanick, running on platform that "ac
tions speak louder than words, lists her experience 
as a senator from 1968-70 and initiating new elec
tion procedures for SG elections, such as publicity, 
photographs, statements from candidates, and the 
use of voting machines. She also served as chairman 
of the Food Service Committee, which, under her 
leadership, followed up all student complaints, in
creased the variety of items in the grill, started the 
"Phone-In Delivery' to the dorms which will begin 
this month, and Special Event nights. She also serv
ed as co-chairman of the General Campus Commit
tee, and was instrumental in extending library hours 
and in researching the possibilities of a Campus 
Discount Store. In addition, her qualifications in
clude her membership on the Frosh Orientation 
Committee, Activities Board 69. Alumni-Junior 
Event Committee. Phi Tau Gamma. Commence
ment Planning Committee, Dorm Counselor Pro
gram Committee. Phi Sigma Upsilon. and as a Cam
pus Tour Guide.
Mark Ruffner, president of Men's Dormitory 
Council, has stressed the need for a balanced exe
cutive power in the Student Senate. He will achieve 
this by appointing Mark Weltman. Delta Upsilon s 
Rush chairman, as policy advisor (serving in that 
capacity on Dr. Stever's Policy Advisory Board). 
Hopefully, a dormitory-fraternity team of this na
ture will afford more thorough representation be
tween the Senate and the administration and other 
campus organizations, said Mark.
Write-In Fight Begun
Hank Bernstein, fourth year graduate student in 
psychology, announced his write-in campaign for 
the presidency ot Student Government, declaring 
that "the most important view-points on campus 
have been lett unexpressed by the candidates as rep
resented in the Tartan.
According to his platform. Hank stated that the 
University must be changed: (1 allowing only 
those recruiters on campus who have been approv
ed by Student Senate and forcing all others to get 
their employees at off-campus locations; (2i per
mitting students and equal voice in all decisions on 
hiring and firing as they are directly affected and 
can accurately judge a professor s teaching abil
ity; (31 reestablishing in loco parentis as students 
are not able to discipline themselves and need a 
guiding hand: (4> immediately seating students on 
the Board of Trustees and that new members to the 
board should be under 30 and "more interesting ': 
*51 immediately expelling all those who use or sell 
nareotics-'our campus does not need junkies that 
will corrupt and demoralize the students : <6 W elim
inating all entrance requirements to the University W 
*71 increasing war research, "our country is in a 
l*me of need, all citizens should do their utmost to 
help the war effort' : (8 making all courses passtail to give the students the opportunity to learn 
without the overriding pressure of grades: (9i im
mediately implementing expulsion for all students
that participate in demonstrations that are in any 
way disruptive, "the last thing I need is some hip
pie type trying to keep me from the education that I 
paid $2.2000 for"; (10) lowering requirements for 
women in male-dominated areas in line with the 
women's liberation movement; (11) getting rid of 
coed dorms as the temptation for immoral behavior 
is too great and interferes with a student s studies 
and "this, after all. is his main purpose here.
When asked by a Tartan reporter whether or 
not he had a good chance to win the election as a 
write-in candidate. Hank replied that. "I know it is 
going to be more difficult, but I have confidence that 
in their hearts they'll know I'm right. I would much 
prefer to have my name placed on the ballot, but I 
recognize the Senate's right to make rules and once 
those rules are made they should be obeyed. It s my 
own fault that I didn't submit my petitions sooner 
but I'm going to campaign hard and to the best ot my 
ability. Power to the people!"
VOTE IN Student Government Elections March 11 and 12Hank Bernstein, Write-In Candidate for President

---------------------------------------------------

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
Page 2THE TARTAN
EDITORIAL
We can only condemn Student Senates action Tuesday 
afternoon to override the election procedures as defined by 
the Rules Committee and to admit Mr. Salners name on the 
ballot after petitions were due. We also take strong issue with 
President Duckworths flippant statement that the Senates ap
proval of Mr. Salners motion would not be creating any kind 
of precedent and that, in fact, such consideration should be
ignored.
The Constitution now reads that petitions shall be sub
mitted within 21 days prior to the date of the election. ' In 
this respect, Mr. Salners was correct in assuming that the 
passage of his motion to include his name on the ballot 
would not require any kind of constitutional amendment. 
But the bylaws, under which the Senate operates, state that 
the Rules Committee shall supervise all Student Govern
ment elections. Several months ago, the Senate approved the 
Rules Committees recommendations for election procedures. 
What the Senate essentially said by their vote Tuesday was 
that rules can be respected or rejected at the Senate's whim. 
They said if we like you, you can do what you want despite 
the rules. Is that the way to make the Senate a respectable 
organization?
We further find it hard to believe that the Senate would 
have accepted a late petition from an unknown freshman. He 
probably would have been told that We have rules and we 
must stick by them.
Although we applaud Mr. Salner s initiative and ingenu
ity in getting his motion passed, we do not think he should 
have been rewarded for his tardiness. It would have been 
more just if he had entered the race as a write-in candidate 
thereby penalizing him for entering the race too late in the 
game to be included on the ballot, and at the same time giv
ing him a chance to run.
Several of Salners methods also are questionable. For 
example, he made the decison to run last Friday afternoon 
when the other candidates were known. Most likely the large 
fraternity and sorority block decided that none of the candi
dates represented their views and that they would put some
one up from their own constituency. So they approached Mr. 
Salners. Salners, in turn, approached each of the four candi
dates individually for President asking their approval of the 
inclusion of his name on the ballot. None of the candidates 
objected. Although this argument figured heavily in Mr. Duck
worths consideration, we find it faulty. None of the other 
candidates wanted to appear so unsure of himself as to want 
to prevent competition; none of them wanted to appear as if 
they were illiberal and unfair. Approaching the candidates 
for their approval gave his motion an air of legitimacy which 
it did not have.
Salners excuse that he was unaware of the fact that a 
candidate for high Senate office did not have to be a mem
ber of the Senate is feeble, at best. If he was at all interest
ed, he could have easily found the necessary information.
We have previously criticized the Senate for voting for 
whom rather than for what. Our objection is further evidenc
ed in this vote.
The Senate did not act responsibly. Other students who 
might have considered running for the offices but who did 
not get it together until the deadline for petitions was due, 
respected the Rules Committee's decision. Now they are being 
penalized for it. If the Senate were fair they would announce 
that anybody who wants to submit a petition up to the time 
of the election may have his name placed on the ballot.
As reported on the front page of this issue. Hank Bern
stein has declared himself a write-in candidate for the Presi
dency, unaware of the motion passed Tuesday. We urge him 
to bring before the next meeting of the Senate a motion to 
include his name on the ballot, for the Senate has no grounds 
on which to deny his request.
We of course realize that names cannot be added to vot
ing machine ballots the day before the election. But because 
the Senate has acted so irresponsibly, we strongly recommend 
that the written ballot be used instead of the machines so that 
Senate will be consistent and fair to all students. If we must 
sacrifice machines for the inconvenient paper ballots, we can 
only blame the Senate's lack of foresight. For they did create 
a precedent, whether they realize it or not.
This statement should in no way be interpreted to mean 
that we support certain candidates. Our positions will be 
included in next Tuesday s issue of the Tartan.
Relieve Financial Injustice in Food Service
Editor. The Tartan:
We wish to clarity some ot the issues that 
were confused in the article "Student Employ
ee Defends Food Service" (Tartan. Tues. Feb. 241. 
First, we are not criticizing the employees or 
their efforts to keep the kitchen clean, but rather 
we are concerned with alleviating the financial 
injustices imposed on the employees laid off dur
ing the instances cited in last week's article.
Secondly, we feel that financial compensations 
are a fair way to rectify the grievances caused 
by administration policy. We feel that shifting a 
week's summer vacation pay to the Christmas 
period does not compensate the employees for 
the pay they lost by not being allowed to work.
Thirdly, student employees have not been paid 
for the time they lost while they were contam
inated. The employees should be paid for the time 
they lost since they were not responsible for the 
food poisoning or the fact that they were "con
taminated."
Fourthly, the author of Tues. article stated "We 
are not inadequately staffed here store room or in 
the kitchen." From our own experience as well
as from conversations with the fulltime employees, 
we know that this is not true. Food Service is un
derstaffed. As an example, last semester two 
dishrooms employeing eight people were in opera
tion day and evening. Presently, only one dishroom is operating, staffed with four or five people. 
The reduced number of people on contract second 
semester has been offset by the increased number 
of dishes from the catering service. As a result, 
work is hurried, and morale is low. This type of 
cutback and its resulting effects have occurred in 
many areas of Food Service.
We feel that the requests for compensation as 
presented here are reasonable and just.
Student-employees 
Lawrence F. Povirk 
Thomas E. Leventry 
Daniel T. Meek 
Anthony Miranda 
Kenneth Holieb 
John H. Wehner 
Keith E. Grams 
Gary Heller 
Dennis Svitek 
William Sabor
I Have a Stake in the Dismissal of Faculty
Editor. The Tartan:
For a very long time, two years in fact. 1 
have been cultivating an extreme dislike for 
both your material and your style in dealing with 
campus affairs. However, your recent issue which 
devoted space to Jim Hastie made me feel that 
a severe injustice would be done if I failed to 
respond, for I too have a stake in the dismissal 
of certain professors in the English department 
who have failed to get their Pee-Aitch-Dees. As 
an English.History major. I have had the oppor
tunity of taking six English Department courses 
in my four semesters here, all of which. I must 
admit, have been excellent. However, three of
those courses were taught by instructors who will 
not be with us next year: two by James Myers 
and one by Timothy Tulloch. In all fairness to 
other members of the faculty that I have had the 
fortune to have as teachers, these two were, with
out a doubt, most influential in my intellectual 
developrrlent. Perhaps this opinion is not shared 
by others but I strongly recommend that the Eng
lish Department reconsider before dismissing such 
outstanding young teachers. I strongly urge any 
students who share my feelings to call me at 
421-6812 in order that we may seek some solution. 
Thank you for your time and space.
Robert L. Pest 
"Student"
Carnegie-Mellon University
22nd Annual INTRAMURAL NIGHT
Friday, March 13
V /- I
7:00 p.m.-IM championship basketball game
8:00 p.m.-Presentation of trophies
8:30 p.m-Pittsburgh Steelers vs.
CMU IM All-Star 
basketball game
Admission free to CMU students by ID card

---------------------------------------------------

Friday, March 6, 1970THE TARTANPage 3
Senate Ca^^g-Aj^Constituency
I have served on Student Senate tor two years 
and I am secretary ot the Finance Committee. I 
would like to see students setting on more admin
istrative and faculty boards, including the Board of 
Trustees. I would also like more security on campus 
as well as further involvement of the campus com
munity in relevant off-campus movements.
llene Abrams, Junior, Psych.
Davies
Beth Davies, Sophomore, BS
I am running for re-election as senator from the 
AWS constituency after having served on Student 
Senate since first semester freshman yearfour 
semesters ago. I have served on various commit
tees and am presently working on general campus 
and with the activities board. I am especially inter
ested in strengthening the activities board: in mak
ing it an integral part of campus life. With enough 
people working hard and enough support from the 
students, the entertainment provided by the board 
on any given weekend can be considered first by the 
campus community.
Student Senate makes many decisions concern
ing the welfare ot the student body. As a member of 
the student population, I feel I have constructive 
ideas concerning the campus code, executive coun
cil. etc. that would be of value lo the entire campus.
Tricia Colt. Junior, TC
Hallam
Since there is a deficiency of fine arts represen
tation in campus activities, as a freshman Painting 
and Sculpture major. I am running for Student Sen
ate. I am willing to put forth the effort to help 
change Senate, which is now handicapped by apathy, 
to the representative of student opinion that it 
should be.
Deborah Hallam, Freshman, P&S
Heller
Student Senate is handicapped by apathy from 
its members. AWS being the worst offender. I'll 
work for my Senate position.
Student Senate is the place for the students to 
make demands to the proper bureaucrats. Students 
may not be in the position to make major policy de
cisions. but through Senate we can make our opin
ions known.
Judy Heller, Freshman, P&S
Johnson
I am a junior transfer student from Oklahoma 
State University, majoring in History and Psycho
logy. While at OSU I served on several senate com
mittees and as secretar\ lo the senate co-ordinator 
Since 1 have been on the C-MU campus. I have been 
appointed to a senate committee and have familiar
ized myself with the C-MU Senate. 1 feel 1 am well 
acquainted with Senate proceedings and I have* a 
great deal of interest in Student Government.
Julie Johnson, Junior, H
Kodish
After serving on Student Council for three years 
and as co-chairman of the Student Faculty Coordi
nating Committee. I have the experience needed to 
capably participate in Student Senate. Senate has 
made much progress in bring to bear upon the cam
pus its enormous influence and in initiating needed 
reform. I'd like to take part in its continuing growth.
Spilka
I am running for a Student Senate seat because 
I want to form the policies and make the decisions 
that affect me. I am energetic, enthusiastic, verbal 
and free every Tuesday and Thursday at 4:30 p.m.
Joan Kodish, Freshman, E
Round-trips to Europe by Jet, some for $199.00
Information and reservations: Prof. Paul Krumenacker, 510 
Estelle Drive, Lancaster, Pa. 17601; Tel. (717) 898-2700. 
Also "GRAND TOUR OF EUROPE" including Russia, 50 days 
all expenses paid, for $1,098.00.
IS IT TRUE BLONDES 
HAVE MORE FUN?" - 
Interview with Clairol on 
Thursday, March 12, 
To Find Out.
We're interested in all 
graduating engineers.
Gerri Spilka, Sophomore, Psych.
pudim
NORTH AMERICAN 
STUDENTS ASSOCIATION
LONDON
$175 to $219
TWENTY FLIGHTS
 JET ROUND TRIP 
421-2313
Students & Faculty Members
VOT EO INS t uOdSOe nG uovoroSm uNleNN
Doctor of Divinity degrees or* issued 
by Universal Ufo Church, along with 
a 10-lesson count in the pro coduro 
of sotting up and operating a non* 
profit organiiatin. For a free will 
offering of $20 we will send you, 
immediately, all 10 lessons in one 
package along with the D.D. certifi
cato.UNIVERSAL LIFE CHURCH 
ROX 6575 
HOLLYWOOD, FLORIDA 33031
THE BACK DOOR
UNIVERSITY COFFEEHOUSE 
EVci sMMa
Folksinger GEORGE GERDES 
and Experimental Films
heo12mDR A SoL U
4905 FIFTH AVENUE AT MOREWOOD 
Basement Rodef Shalom
(Entrance at Reor Parking Lot)

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4THE TARTANFriday, March 6, 1970
Student Senate-Commuter Constituency
Borth
I am running for re-election. As a member of 
the finance committee I favor further financial 
support of the Activities Board and other fiscally 
responsible campus organizations oriented toward 
serving student interests. I think student participa
tion in forming academic and disciplinary policy 
is imperative for student interests in the Univer
sity.
Steve Borth, Jr. H
Gaspar
Our university is changing. B.C.C. involve
ment marked the decline of the white tower uni
versity. The proposed student judicial system is a 
step in the democratization of the university. Both 
these changes should be encouraged.
Morabito
Garl
In my year and a half at Carnegie-Mellon I 
have found it to be one of the most progressive 
places to go to school. The reasons for this is be
cause of the administration's and student senate's 
ability to work together. I feel that I could help 
in representing the students at this university.
Michael J. Garl, Soph. Drama
George Gaspar, Jr. M-H
Messervy
Many questionable administrative decisions 
pass unchallenged by the majroity of students, 
partly through ignorance and apathy but mostly 
through failure of the student senate to respon
sible serve and represent the student body.
Dennis Morabito, Jr. Eng.
Spring
The Fraternity and Dormitory Constituencies 
represent a solid, clearly defined interest group 
to the Student Senate. The commuters living at 
home or in apartments, are more disassociated, and 
therefore have no clear knowledge of well, where 
their interest lies. I would like to organize the 
commuter seats into a group that could protect 
and provide for these interests.
John Messervy, Jr. Arch.Michael C. Spring, Jr. Eng.
CS-S
o
n
s
cs-4H$7
Myron Staroschak, Soph. E.E.
5NSTNNr HL2DDND Oe 2S iS91m 5eN2W
YSCOTTY'SY
OPEN TO SERVE YOU 
24 HOURS A DAY
3918 FORBES AVENUE
. . . and . . .
ROUTE 8, NORTH OF ETNA 7918 PENN AVENUE
University of Pittsburgh Theatre
PRESENTS
ROSENCRANTZ AND GUILDENSTERN 
ARE DEAD
by Tom Stoppard 
Directed by F. Curtis Canfield
MARCH 6, 7, 11-14, 18-21 
8:30 P.M.
STEPHEN FOSTER MEMORIAL 
Call 621-3500 ext. 331 for reservations1 P.M.4 A.M. DIG IT!

---------------------------------------------------

Student Senate-Dormitory
Agaston
My purpose in running for Student Government 
is to use this organ to try to change the nature of 
Carnegie-Mellon University from a factory into a 
school.
Constituency
Brockman
Friday, March 6, 1970THE TARTANPage 5
Lately. Student Senate has attracted some de
gree of attention, because of issues such as the new
ly proposed judicial board. Still participation and 
support by the student body as a whole is less than it 
should be. Our Student Government at C-MU has be
come strong; it can be made better with more peo
ple behind it. Senate needs people to organize this. 
The choices are up to you.
John Agatston, Sophomore, Math. Bob Brockman, Freshman, Mech. E.
Boggan
The Student Senate is the one student organiza
tion that get students the rights which they deserve. 
It has done much this year, but it still has a long 
way to go. I want to get these rights because with
out them, neither you nor I can be free.Glaser
Tom Boggan, Freshman, PhysicsGerry Glasser, Junior, Physics
Holobinko
I believe that Student Senate has not served the 
students on this campus as it should. If elected. I 
will set a goal of establishing social activities on 
campus which may benefit all C-MU students and of 
informing my constituents of my senate activities 
at all times.
Jordan
My name is James Jordan, I am a freshman in 
the College of H & S S, majoring in Psychology. I 
was involved in many student activities in high 
school (vice-president of senior class, chairman of 
Social Committee, co-chairman of Hatchet Commit
tee, etc.). I know that if elected to Student Senate I 
could play a very beneficial role to the student body.
John Holobinko, Freshman, EE James Jordan, Freshmen, Psych.
Rosen
Pritts
A basic issue for this Senate is the regulation 
of the authority. It is a question of the rights of the 
governed to be represented and the necessity for a 
qualified administration. This issue can not be easi
ly answered. It is a problem of power and to whom 
it does belong.
Ralph Pritts, Freshman, EEPhillip G. Rosen, Freshmen, EE
8:00 p.m. -12 p.m. 
axcapt Monday
_ t*
,VX%i**1 709 Ballaf onta S treat
Shadystda
SEE OLD FILMSFREESun
day, March 86 by Ferdininand Zecca, 2 by Charlie 
Chaplin, Carnegie Lecture 
Hall, Carnegie Institute 7:30.
The Largest Selection of 
Imported and Domestic 
Tobaccos A Pipes in the City
5FctF 5ns&
3725 ForbM Si. M14045
Nationally Advertised Pipes
HVtEVty HnhhMM VnbiM
(Basement of REA HOUSE on Chatham College Campus)
Open Friday Nile 91
iCMHct& Y i2S6R y2ed- 7... AY3
Music and Fun from
st0 5tHa sVMx
("A Happening" for Upper Classmen Only)
ABORTION  Information, 
Speakers, Counseling. Write: 
Abortion Justice Association, 
Box 10132, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
15232.
Tonight
SEE
GOPI KRISHNA
Holder of Record for 
Nine Hours of 
Non Stop Dancing!
.. at..
Schenley High Auditorium
  at. a 
Centre and Bigelow
  at. .
8:30 p.m.
Tickets: $2.00 and $3.00
n.Nr&orNfYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
621-WRCT
SUNDAY NIGHTS, 10:30, with Steve Harris 
OpenLine! goes beyond mere factual reporting. OpenLine! 
brings the specialists and the newsmakers to the air, live, 
for questioning by you. OpenLine! calls taken at 621-wrct 
or 01 in Morewood, 10:30-12 every Sunday evening. This 
weeks guests will be: The candidates for President of Stu
dent Government: Pat Cavanagh, Vincent J. Misitano, Jr., 
Lourol Polanick, Mark Ruffner, Jim Salners, Hank Bernstein. 
Each will discuss their positions and answer any questions
you might hove. presented by WRCT NEWS/9
.. .for the Dorms and FRATERNITIES
ORIGINAL HOT DOG SHOPPE
nvNe U( yoLLoOr VOS 5olD iOL1
WITH THIS COUPON 
between the hours of 3 p.m. and 3 a.m
THREE HOT DOGS FOR $1,00 
OR THREE STEAKBURGERS FOR $1.00 
. . . OR THREE FISH SANDWICHES FOR $1.00!
* VALID UNTIL MARCH 20th
 YOUR CHOICE 
OPEN 24 HOURS3901 FORftES AVE.
Tech

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6THE TARTANFriday, March 6, 1970
Student Senate-Fraternity Constituency
FennelLeMay
Concern with freedom of speech in high schools 
is commendable but a student representative must 
focus his attention on campus. He should encourage 
student services like a convenient drug store, the 
financial support of new activities as well as the old. 
and, above, all, better security. I intend to.
I am the corresponding secretary of Beta Theta 
Pi and have participated in many and been comissioner of two intramural sports. These activities 
havsgiven me the opportunity to meet and talk with 
many other fraternity members. As a Senator I 
would represent all fraternities equally and vote in 
full support of the fraternity system.
James S. Fennel, Junior, Chm. E.
Richardson
Charles Richardson is a freshman chemistry 
major. The past semester he served on Men's Dorm 
Council and as a special assistant to the president 
of MDC. Chuck hopes to overcome the general apa
thy toward Student Senate and make it the effective 
body it should be.
Robert LeMay, Sophomore, Phy.
Sugarman
There is a definite need for an increase of se
curity on campus. Having approached the admin
istration on these matters personally and through 
CFP I have found them very co-operative in doing 
nothing. I hope that as a Senator I will be able to 
bring this issue to a more rapid conclusion for the 
benefit of the whole community.
Charles Richardson, Fresh., Chem. Michael B. Sugarman, Jr., Econ.
Also Running: Cary Scarborough, Jr., Chem E
Student Senate-Graduate Constituency
SingerAlso Running
Judith L. Gibbons, Pay. 
Leslie G. Polgar, Phys.
Murray Singer, Psy.
hN2S9eorlCounselors
The Virgin
andfor
REBECCA1970 INTRA-CAMPUS
AND
THE
Sunnybrooke FarmersENCOUNTER (Aug. 29-31)
-EXTRA-FIRST MEETING
SILENT MOVIES
heo12m xol-SR y2de- B g p)7(MONDAY, MARCH 9, 4:30,
u9"9NDrN brovNeDoSm iS91NrS 
broOr 52LLeOOkWHERRETT ROOM
i:6(( uOr2SoOr
Tickets Sold at Door

---------------------------------------------------

Friday, March 6, 1970THE TARTANPage 7
College Council Candidates
H & SS
Korbett
As a junior English major I believe that I have 
experienced sufficiently the trials and tribulations 
of core requirements and elective subjects to give 
me an appreciation of the values of the present sys
tem yet an awareness of the changes that are still 
necessary.
Since I was originally a Physics-English double 
major and have interests and experience on both 
levels I feel that I can be of assistance in the dis
cussion of compatible programs which will height
en the potentials of the present program.
Morabito
The most disturbing aspect of the College 
Council, from the students viewpoint, is it's dispro
portionate representation. The College of Human
ities and Social Sciences, tor example, has 15 seats, 
only three of which are reserved for students. My 
primary goal would be to effect a more proportion
ate body, giving students their rightful voice in 
the policy-making and disciplinary functions of the 
Council.
PoliakDigby
I want a chance to try to change the things that 
many people, including myself, have complained 
about this year.
Michael Poliak, Freshman, Und.
Fried
Seating students on the College Councils will 
open long-needed dialogue between students and the 
administration on academic issues. Student dele
gates should not serve as mere stumbling blocks 
to the establishment. Rather we must recognize 
our responsibility to express student aims and ideals 
to be heard and heeded.
Also Running 
Beverly Wolfson
Fresh., Und
Geoff Fried, Junior
MMCC
CIT
Sue Rickley, Junior, T.C.
Ballentine
By permitting student representatives to the 
CIT College Council, the administration is recogniz
ing that students have a vital concern in the deci
sions that govern them. I feel my experience as a 
member of the Electrical Engineering Student Ad
visory Committee will prove quite useful. I intend to 
present the student opinion to the Council, but will 
base my decisions on all matters on whether the is
sue will better education in CIT.
Teter
Dave Ballentine, Junior, EEJames Teter, Sophomore, Chem.
BarbariFarris
Several decisions will soon be made which will 
affect the quality of the technical education here at 
C-MU. If elected. I would work on strengthening the 
Biology Department, adding courses on pollution 
and ecology, giving CIT students the option of tak
ing their H&SS courses on a pass-fail basis and al
lowing students to drom any course at any time. I 
also feel that two is a disproportionately small 
number of students on the council. My goal in these 
as in the everyday matters of the council is to ex
pand and improve the academic opportunities avail
able to the student.
The most important job of a student on College 
Council will be to keep in contact with the students 
and be able to assess their feelings. I hope to do 
this and be able to present to the faculty the stu
dents viewpoint.
I will work for more humanities electives, a 
five-year Science-Humanities or Engineering Hu
manities program giving two degrees, a B.S. and a 
B.A. and for continuation of the Department of Bio
logical Sciences.
Ed Barbari, Junior, EE
Hamberg
I am a sophomore in AMS.
I am concerned with the rigid department al re
quirements that CIT must meet. These require
ments should be more flexible, thus providing stu
dents with greater opportunity to broaden their ex
perience while pursuing their major interests. Also. 
 teel the drop date should be extended until finals.
Also Running
Bart Farris, Junior, Bio.
Jeff Hamberg, Sophomore, Ams.
Stephen Fuld, Soph, Chem 
Carol Sheftic, Jr., Math

---------------------------------------------------

New career opportunities 
in aerospace/electronics
There are no walls around you, 
no ceiling above you when your 
career is aerospace/electronics.
And Hughes Field Service 
& Support Division is an ideal 
place to start. You can capitalize 
now on your abilities and 
training. Get valuable and varied 
experience quickly. And keep 
progressing steadily toward your 
career goals.
Our Division objectives are 
to assure maximum utilization 
and operational efficiency of highperformance electronic equip
ment throughout its life span.
Significant projects include: 
Communications Satellites; Auto
matic Test Equipment; Airborne 
Fire Control Systems; Airborne 
Communications Systems; and 
Training Simulators.
rite- In Fghtit-hB
Field Engineering
Responsibilities include: 
providing maintenance, opera
tional and technical assistance; 
on-the-job training; logistic 
assistance and solution of 
equipment problems in the field.
Engineering Writing
At Hughes, technical staff 
members prepare technical 
publications and instructional 
devices for the operation and 
maintenance of electronic 
systems. Assignments are varied 
and provide a wide range of 
systems-oriented experience.
Technical Training
Hughes Technical Training 
prepares both civilian and 
military personnel to operate and 
maintain advanced electronic 
systems. Instructors work directly 
with customers to evolve 
special training devices, plan field 
training programs and prepare 
courses for use at customer bases.
Design Engineering
Design Engineers develop 
sophisticated training simulators, 
automatic checkout and test 
equipment, inertial guidance,
infrared testing and Command/ 
Control systems. Included are 
design of analog circuits, digital 
logic, switch/relay logic and 
electro-mechanical packaging. 
Responsibilities extend from 
concept to final fabrication 
and evaluation.
utSaFitCtgh-B
B.S. degree in Electrical 
Engineering or Physics.
Campus Interviews 
March 11
^Ii naihAti FgnIiCehFIg 
Ig hAt jeitti IooIihagFhFteseFceyct eh DavAt- rFijienh 
HICoeglm octe-t jIghejh lIai 
HIcctvt JcejtCtgh KnnFjti 
Ii diFhtB
Air. up kp TecEiIgm
DavAt- rFijienh HICoeglm
JpKp OIR GMbPbm
LI- rgvtct-m HecFnp GMMMGp
: HUGHES j
I______________________________I
HUGHES AIRCRAFT COMPANY
Equal opportunity M/F employer. 
U.S. citizenship is required.
HOMEWORKERS WANTED
Envelope addresser*; send Self Ad
dressed, Stamped Envelope. OVER
SEAS JOBS; HIGH PAY, List of Com
panies Hiring; $1.00. The Elliot Co., 
748 Washington Ave. Miami Beach, 
Florida 33139.
VOT EO INS t 
uOdSOe nG uovoroSm uNleNN
Doctor of Divinity degrees are issued 
by Universal Life Church, along with 
a 10-lesson course in the procedure 
of setting up and operating a non
profit organization. For a free will 
offering of $20 we will send you, 
immediately, all 10 lessons in one 
package along with the D.D. certifi
cate.
UNIVERSAL LIFE CHURCH 
BOX 6575 
HOLLYWOOD, FLORIDA 33021
Page 8THE TARTANFriday, March 6, 1970
ARTISTS! GRAPHIC DESIGNERS!
GENESEE BEER POSTER COMPETITION 
1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th PRIZE  $500 Vol.
HELP! Keep the more exciting beer from falling through the generation gap!
All you have to do is design a poster that looks a little more contemporary 
than D. W. Griffith. Go as far out as you want with color or form or style. Just 
don't get hung up on Madison Avenue thinking.
Do a poster that really has something to say! It could win you $500.00. The 
odds are with you ... with 4 chances to win!
-RULES AND CONDITIONS1. Competition is open to all interested per
sons. No proof of purchase or other considera
tion is required.
2. Competition period, March 1 thru May 31, 
1970. All entries must be received by May 31, 
1970.
3. Winners will be reproduced in full color lith
ography, 20" x 28". All entries must be 20" x 
28", either horizontal or vertical.
4. Each entry must show or depict, in some 
manTte*, somewhere in the design the Genesee 
name or logotype, or a Genesee package (Gen
esee Beer, Genesee Cream Ale or Fyfe & Drum 
Beer).
5. Entries will be judged on a basis of original
ity, art technique and suitability for reproduc
tion, without limitation as to theme or content, 
subject to final approval of State alcoholic bev
erage control agencies.
6. Each of four winners will receive $500.00. Winning entries become the property of Great 
Lakes Press, and will be used in the sales pro
motion activities of the Genesee Brewing Co., 
Inc. All other entries will be returned.
7. All entrants will receive a set of the four 
winning posters.
8. Each entry must be identified, in upper left 
hand corner of the reverse side with entrants
name, address, age, and address to which entry 
should be returned after July 1, 1970.
9. Judges will be Leo Kaplan, Artist, Rochester, 
N. Y.; John Sidebotham, Creative Director, Wm. Esty Co., New York City; Suzanne Moatz, Design 
Major, Syracuse University School of Art.
10. Employees of the sponsor, members of 
their families, and sponsors advertising agency, 
are not eligible. State alcoholic beverage control 
regulations also prohibit participation by retail 
or wholesale licensees and members of their 
families.
11. Competition is void where prohibited by 
State alcoholic beverage control regulations.
ENTRIES SHOULD BE SENT TO:
GENESEE BEER POSTER COMPETITION
GREAT LAKES PRESS  445 CENTRAL AVENUE . ROCHESTER, NEW YORK 14605
THERE'S MORE OF
The Wide, 
Wild World 
of New Film
    #       e   e 1 ; ; Vj mi ; ; ,jt.
J
MK i ; 1 :
Film (ffPseries
Peter Whiteheads Swinging
TONIGHT LET S ALL 
MAKE LOVE IN LONDON
with
Michael Caine, The Rolling Stones, Julie Christie,Eric Burdon, others.
Albert Lamorisses 
elegant
VERSAILLES
and 5 other surprises
Kinetic ArtProgram Two
WHERRETT ROOM 
Saturday, March 14th 
7:30 and 10:00 
Sunday, March 15th 
2:00, 4:30, 7:30 and 10:00 
Tickets $1.00
Skibo Information Desk 
Sponsored by The Activities Board

---------------------------------------------------

Friday, March 6, 1970THE TARTANPage 9
.CompCe tipns talimomnn rd Nlp fCuc hn
by Barbara Gerner
What exactly is the value of 
bringing a film series such as 
the Kinetic Arts program to the 
Carnegie-Mellon campus? Well 
it obviously makes the weekend 
exceptional as it gives us some
thing to do for a change. But 
such a program with all its var
iety gives its audience a good 
idea of all the possibilities which 
lie within the media of film. It 
creates an awareness in its audi
ence or what film is and can be.
The first film of the program 
Phenomena was an example of 
a film that relied totally on the 
visual. It was a sort of a light 
show on film, that is. it consist
ed entirely of abstract light man
ipulations. The images changed 
enough and the film was short 
enough to keep it from being 
boring. My main objection to 
this film was that it did not fully 
utilize its form nor recognize 
its possibilities. The philosophy 
of any art form is that what the 
artist wishes to convey demands 
a certain media and certain ma
terials to communicate his idea. 
An idea materialized into a 
painting or a sculpture or a film 
because of what it is and what 
it has to be Phenomena was beau
tiful and showed creativity but 
it was not a true film in the
sense that say. Scott Bartlett's 
Moon 69 is. Bartlett uses simi
lar images-abstract lights, nega
tives. colors and forms but he 
makes all of these work together 
and comes up with a unity. There 
is a definite, and incredible 
climax to his Moon 69 which is 
image after image after image 
jumping at the audience. There 
is a very intense build up of 
tempo and of rhythms in the 
images which finally explode 
at the end and the audience goes 
with it. It is exhausting and an 
ultimate in film experience. 
Phenomena, in many ways a sim
ilar film, when compared to Moon
69. comes across as just a lot of 
fancy techniques strung together 
and it did not have enough sub
stance for a film.
The animated films were too 
similar in theme and became re
petitive after the first one. Life 
in a Tin. The first was engross
ing- it was like watching life at 
78 r.p.m.'s and the theme of man 
struggling against advancing 
technology and struggling for 
the attainment of individuality 
was presented in a straight for
ward, little cartoon way. Two 
Grilled Fish which was concern
ed with essentially the same 
problem had its moments and 
the best animation was evident 
in the Spiderelephant.
The two most worthwhile films 
of the program were Cruel Dia
gonals and Rakvickarna. Cruel 
Diagonals was an intense and 
totally unique portrait of the 
essence of war. War goes beyond 
the struggle that occurs be
tween enemies. It is a horrible 
struggle for survival that kills 
feeling for anything but ones 
own immediate needs. Yet. there 
is still a humanity that shows it
self again. When the little boy 
is threatened by the German 
planes he remembers they are 
his real enemies and is able to 
give what he himself needs to 
a dead old man (but a compatri
ot, nevertheless). The film was 
incredibility simple and subtle 
at the same time. The emotion 
of the entire thing was so raw 
that the audience could not help 
but taste it. The directness of 
its black and white contrasted 
with the ornate gaudiness of 
Rakvickarna which, rather ela
borately. used marionnettes. 
What begins as a rather cute 
exchange between the two mar
ionette friends over the one's 
pet guinea pig, developes into an 
incredible exchange of violence 
as they fight to death over pos
session of the animal. The mar
ionnettes were, of course, people 
and the fact that they kill each
other over a dumb" animal 
makes humans look very infer
ior in intelligence indeed. The 
animal knows what is happen
ing and passively watches the 
two main each other and at the 
end the animal is the one who 
gets up and walks away. Strange
ly enough, everyone in the audi
ence laughed.
11 Guidice was a film that 
would have worked so much 
better had the text been omitted 
and merely the beautiful black 
and white images flashed across 
the screen. The existential theme 
has really been worn out and in 
order for it to be used, it really 
should be presented with much 
more sublety. Such a sublety 
could have been achieved by 
letting the images speak for 
themselves.
Happiness illustrated that brev
ity in a film is sometimes the 
most effective. Say what you have 
to say and if you say it right 
that is more than enough. This 
short, short gem about an en
counter in the modern world 
in the middle of nowhere was 
an exquisite little microcosm of 
life.
The last film really worth 
mentioning is La Pomme. A 
beautiful graphic technique was 
used fully and effectively to con
vey a story. What better way 
could there be to tell the story 
of an artist's life than to repre
sent it through his work. Take 
this a step further by making 
the drawings dissolve into the 
real images and back again. It 
is a beautiful idea and totally 
part of what is being communi
cated. The technique fit so well 
into the film that one was scarce
ly conscious of what was happen
ing to the image as one watched 
it. There was a constant flow of 
one image into another which 
corresponded to the flow of the 
life that was being portrayed.
There is one problem with a 
presentation of films such as the 
Kinetic Arts program. When one 
film follows the other in such 
succession something of a film 
is apt to be lost. The beauty of 
one film is immediately jarred 
by the film following it. It is 
likely that such a program can
not do true justice to the films 
within it. Some of the subleties 
of a particular film may be 
lost because of the gradual de
sensitizing which occurs in the 
audience as the films progress. 
However, this is not really a 
problem which can be readily 
remedied. There must constantly 
be compromises, unfortunately 
even in the arts.
"L'Avventura" Deviates From Hollywoodish Plot
by Sam McCool
Concerned with the elements of behavior in human 
relationships. Antonioni creates a triangular interaction 
in L'Avventura ' that deviates from the traditional 
Hollywood idea of plot but effectively interacts passist 
and existential states of existence.
The first group of more than three people is in an 
initial scene shot on a baren island. The sea around 
this island contains other grey and baren islands which 
emphasize through their frequent presence on the screen 
the sterile relationships of the couples in the group. 
On this island Anna, a heiress of a wealthy Italian 
contractor, disappears. A search begins in which Sand
ro, her boy-friend, and Claudia, her girl-friend, form 
the third relationship of the triangular interaction that 
incarnates the rest of the film. So what if Anna is nev
er found or her death never declared, her disappear
ance defines the existence of Sandro and Claudia in the 
rest of the story.
Sandro lives a true existential existence much like 
Estragon of Samuel Becketts play, "Waiting for God
ot." Sandro defines his existence by the present situa
tion in the same way that Estragon breaks time up in
to short situations which are complete in themselves 
and unrelated to the other situations in which he ex
ists. Sandro s reason for existence in the film becomes 
Anna's disappearance and the need for someone to look 
for her. He does this with casual interest, becoming 
almost immediately interested in Claudia. While Anna 
and Claudia desire something deeper than love." that 
something going beyond the present into the past and 
the future. Sandro sees love determined by the presence 
of someone to love. Once Anna is no longer present, he 
turns his interest and eventually his love to Claudia. 
His statement, If Anna were here. I would under
stand you (Claudia)." reveals his uncomprehension of 
Claudia's concern with Anna's feelings when Anna 
does not exist (at least for him she does not.)
Claudia is like Vladimir of "Waiting for Godot' by 
the way she struggles to fit the past into the present. 
She tries to define her existence in the present by past 
events such as Anna's disappearance, her relationship 
with Anna, and Sandro's relationship with Anna. Vladi
mir does this same thing by hanging onto Godot as 
a thing of past and future in his search for meaning in 
his life. Near the end Claudia is afraid that Anna will
come back even though Anna is her good friend and 
she should wish for Anna's safety. She then reflects on 
how her emotions are becoming too simple. Yet. I would 
say that this is her failing. To be honest about her 
present state of mind would be better than to let loy
alty to a past relationship destroy one of the present.
Claudia remains a passist. strongingly attached to 
the idea of Anna possible presence in the future and 
an idea of love defined by faithfulness in the future, 
until the end when,she goes to Sandro after he seeming
ly betrayed her love, because he is the only person 
there. His presence proves his existence and love for 
her.
Concentrating on body movements and facial ex
pressions. Antonioni presents outstanding character 
development. Physical gestures are important to charac
ter interactions in film and in reality, and Antonioni 
concentrates on them to reveal the subtleness of human 
behavior in human relationships.
For all the Hollywood addicts the movie probably 
was a disappointment. If they were expecting Anna to 
show-up her existence to be determined, they missed 
the movie.
Senate Discusses Code, Finances, Elections
by Murray Singer
The new judicial code was 
once again a chief item of bus
iness on the agenda of the Stu
dent Senate last Tuesday. Joe 
Duckworth described a few 
minor changes to the original 
proposal, and then outlined sev
eral additions. These additions 
seemed to ensure for the student 
adequate protection against 
several forms of double jeopardy, 
and read as follows:
Section 3. Procedure
A. 8. After a final judgment is 
reached and or further appeals 
have been filed, the case will 
rest and shall not be heard again 
by the Student Judicial System.
A. 9. The Student Judicial 
System will hear no cases upon 
which a suit has been filed in 
Civil Court. If the charges are 
dropped in Civil Court, the Uni
versity may bring action through 
the Student Judicial Sy stem.
A. 10. For any particular of
fense. the University may prose
cute in either Civil Court or the 
Student Judicial System, but 
not both.
A. 11. If a final judgment 
has been made by the Student 
Judicial System and subsequent 
like charges are brought within 
the statute of limitations in the 
Civil Court, the University judg
ments and or penalties shall be 
reviewed at the request of the de
fense by the Student Judicial 
System.
At this point, the entire pro
posal was finally entered as a 
formal motion and, as an amend
ment to the Constitution, was 
tabled to the next Senate meet
ing at which time it may be vot
ed upon.
The greater portion of the rest 
of the meeting was spent pass
ing the 1970-71 Senate budget. 
The finance committee request
SENATE ELECTIONS MARCH 11 and 12 VOTE!
ed that over $62,000 be allocated 
at this time to various campus 
organizations. The entire bud
get will equal 1 percent of the 
moneys collected as tuition next 
year, and will total at about 
$93,000. Most of the recommen
dations of the Finance Commit
tee were accepted, although the 
large Tartan appropriation was 
tabled till the next meeting.
Earlier in the meeting, the 
Senate had approved an alloca
tion of $1,000 from the 1969-70 
budget to help finance the En
vironmental teach-in which will 
be held jointly at CMU. Pitt, 
and Duquesne Universities in the 
near future. It is hoped that this 
amount will be matched by the 
CMU administration, since the 
Senate was informed by a repre
sentative of the Teach-in s co
ordinators that $16,000 was need
ed. primarily to pay the honor
aria of the speakers who will be 
involved.
The Student Senate also pass
ed by a very narrow margin a 
motion to place thename of Jim 
Salners on the ballot next week 
as a candidate for President of 
the Student Senate. Salners told 
the Senate that he did not pre
sent a petition by the required 
deadline because he had not 
been aware that Senate exper
ience was not needed by a Pres
idential candidate. Bill Iacano. 
chairman of the Rules Commit
tee stated that he was hesitant 
to set a prcdant of making 
special exceptions to Senate Bvlaws. The motion, however, did 
carry.
Finally, the Senate was in
formed that next weeks elec
tions would see the first use of 
voting machines on campus. 
Students will be able to prac
tice on one of these machines 
at Skibo early next week.
Sensitivity Lab Setm/
Sensitivity training is founded on the belief that human rela
tions. understanding and skills can be developed. Its aim is to help 
the participants feel differently  and not merely think differently  
about the many human relation problems which they are likely to 
face. This is brought about, first, by helping them to increase their 
awareness of how others think, feel, and are likely to behave (so
cial sensitivityi: and second, by helping them to acquire the ability 
to act appropriately in varing situations (behavioral flexibility. As 
participants gain understanding of themselves, of others, and of the 
various social pressures generated by human relationships, it is hop
ed that they will become able to function more productively in faceto-face and in group situations, that they will become more aware 
of their own individual strengths, and that- they will distinguish be
tween real and imaginary pressures and thus increase their capacity 
to speak and act as free, strong, and considerate individuals.
Sound beautiful? Want to explore this possibility? A sensitivity 
workshop, open to 24 people, is planned for March 19-21. the first 
three days in spring vacation. The trainers will be Lee Bolman of 
GSIA and Sally Pearne of Psychology. The cost will be $19 Sign 
up at 57 Ski bo by March 13.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10THE TARTANFriday, March 6, 1970
How The Draft Changed My Life
by Steven Friedman
I used to be just like everyone else, doing all those 
regular straight things. Im an engineering student and 
fraternity man looking at graduate school in business ad
ministration, planning on that big executive job. home in 
the suburbs, two cars, cocktail parties, and commuting to 
the rat race. I was pretty well wrapped in my own world 
just like everyone else. That was until August 15. 1969.
On that day I was reclassified by my draft board to 
1-A (I'm a fifth year student, not entitled to 2-Si. All of a 
sudden someone threw something in the works. I had to 
think about the possibility of military service. I was no 
longer protected by my student deferment and not just 
months away from an occupational deferment as other 
seniors. That possibility was staring me in the face.
Now. I say to myself. Can you kill. or. more impor
tant. can you kill from the asinine reasons Nixon or Laird 
give you? No. "Can you agree with that killing or ever be 
part of it?" No. How the hell can you cooperate with a 
system sendings others to do a job that you yourself may 
be called upon to do later? My draft card is now in Wash
ington at the Vietnam Moratorium Committee headquar
ters. Later this month it will be given to the Senate Arm
ed Service Committee at the start of the draft hearings. 
Thats the only answer I could come up with.
And a lot of my friends say I'm crazy. Sure the wars 
wrong. Sure, the military is running our foreign policy. 
Sure, the draft is undemocratic. And sure, one day we all 
might be called upon to be a tool of the state, doing a job 
that nobody wants and nobody agrees with. But to resist*? 
I've got to be crazy.
You won t get a good job. they say. Youll be a crim
inal. they say. Youll have to go to jail, they say. I ll be a 
man with guts enough to stand up for what I believe in. I 
say.
Hell, anybody could be a coward and be drafted. 
tHow many of you flag-waving patriots have the guts to 
stand up for what you believe in and enlist?) That's the 
easiest damned thing in the world. You could join the 
American Legion, march on Veteran's Day. and spout off 
about how you want to change the system from within. 
But somehow you never get past the "pray for peace" 
point.
You're damned straight resistance is a hard road with 
lots of inconveniences. I won't be able to make baby bug
gies if the company's got a defense contract. I'll never be : 
company president. U.S. Senator, or even dog catcher. I 
probably won't be allowed to vote. And besides. I hear that 
prison is a drag.
But I'll be albe to live. I won't have to sell my princi
ples for 30 pieces of silver. I won't crucify my role as a 
human being on a cross of patriotism. I wont have to live 
my life as a hypocrite just to satisfy material desires. I 
won't have to preach love and brotherhood while partici
pating in hate and death.
Like so many sheep to the slaughter you each put { 
your head on the block. But you don't have to. Quoting 
from David Harris, founder of Draft Resistance:
"You and I are bricks and mortar of that (Selective 
Service i system. And the most elaborate bureaucracy for 
Selective Service in the world does not function without 
people such as you and me willing to sign our lives over to 
that system. Without you and me. it's nothing. I mean, the 
beautiful thing about American totalitarianism is that it 
is participatory. Which means that if you don't buy it. it 
doesn't move. And I dont buy it. " ,
Neither do I.
Dr. Margaret Mead Urges Non-Violent April 22
by Jenifer Digby
Margaret Mead, septuagenerian anthropologist, addressed 1.100 
college editors last weekend at a 
conference on ecology in Washing
ton. D. C. Her words were greet
ed with enthusiasm by the hereto
fore vocal and antagonistic group 
of editors representing newspa
pers from all over the nation. They 
They had screamed four-letter 
rhetoric at Secretary of the Inter
ior Walter Hickel; they had refus
ed to listen to newspaper and mag
azine representatives: debated maptiently with ecologists who were 
tyring to sensibly address them
selves to the problem of our de
generating environment. But they 
listened to Dr. Mead.
In her speech. Dr. Mead urged
students taking part in the Envir
onmental Teach-In on April 22 to 
avoid violence. Mrs Mead stated 
that violence over the environmen
tal issue at this time might throw 
a switch that could cause thou
sands of deaths. Simultaneously, 
all hopes of arousing America 
would be lost in a reactionary 
backlash. She suggested that a 
dramatic event, such as the clos
ing of all industrial complexes on 
the 22nd might drive home more 
effectively the dangers we are 
now facing, dangers that will con
quer us all if we don't soon wake 
up.
Fielding a wide spectrum of 
questions from her audience. Dr. 
Mead said that, although she had 
never used marijuana, she advo
cated its legal use because mari
juana is not a narcotic, and its ban 
has produced the very climate in 
which users are led to try the socalled hard drugs. "Pot." she 
said, "has become an unfortunate 
symbol of the persecution of the 
young by the old."
Margaret Mead called the trial 
of the Chicago Seven a "calamity 
for those who regard the law as a 
tremendous stride over primitive 
forms of justice such as sorcery 
and murder."
On the pillDr. Mead declared 
that the recent Senate hearings 
had not swayed her point of view. 
"It is still the best thing we have 
at the moment." she said. "The 
pill is not as hazardous as preg
nancy."
To Dr. Mead, the Women's Lib
eration Movement is merely the 
result of the overwhelming pres
sures of the population explosion. 
Women of the future will not be 
having as many babies. Thus they 
will need to find useful roles in so
ciety to fill the time gap. After the 
female move is accomplished, she 
said, men ought to move for lib
eration. Too long men have been 
trained by society for roles as 
husbands and fathers. And after 
that. Dr. Mead offered, we will 
need a Human Liberation Move
ment. Shouts of enthusiasm and 
applause answered this comment 
from all sides.
With typical ease. Dr. Mead 
handled a qeustion on sensitivity 
training, labeling it as a design to
"loosen up a lot of peple whose 
mothers had advised them to stav 
at the YMCA."
Finally, a declaration was made 
from the floor (one we'd heard too 
often during the four-day confer
ence) that "We don't want to fix 
the lousy situation of the world  
we want out." To this remark. Dr. 
Mead replied that getting out was 
fine for those who were indepen-, 
dently wealthy, but that from the 
standpoint of space and reality, 
there simply is not enough space 
on this earth for three billion peo
ple to isolate themselves from the 
rest of mankind. The address was 
capped by a standing ovationa 
salute to the insight of an aging 
but visionary humanitarian.
Woman Candidate 
Don't Let Ideas Die"
Apply For a Tartan Position
w
by Gary Straus
In recent years the campaign 
for campus wide student offices 
has been a man's domain, but this 
year is an exception. From one of 
the most unlikely places, the Dra
ma Department of the Fine Arts 
College. Laurel Polanick. a jun
ior from Harrisville. Pa., is run
ning for the office of president of 
Student Goverxnt.
"It doesn't bother me that all 
my opponents are men." Miss 
Polanick stated. "I am not run
ning as a woman. I am running on 
my qualifications." She did make 
it clear, however, that she is un
der no illusions about the possible 
effects of her being a woman. "All 
of the candidates have disadvan
tages in one way or another." she 
said.
Miss Polanick has been involv
ed in various activities during her 
three years at Carnegie-Mellon. 
Presently, besides working long 
hours as a scene designer option 
in the Drama Department, she is 
chairwoman of the Food Service 
Committee, a floor counselor in 
Morewood Gardens, a part time 
employees of Student Activities, 
and a Representative to Student 
Senate.
"I am running for president becasue I feel frustrated with how 
slowly things move on this cam
pus." she says. "Good ideas die 
because they are not pushed!" 
Miss Polanick cites as examples 
the plans for a student co-op drug 
store and the extension of Health 
Service hours to weekends.
Of her philosophy Miss Polan
ick states. "When I see something 
that needs doing. I go out and do it.
Students do have a lot of power on 
this campus  power for good  
they just need cohesiveness.
"Student Government.'' she 
says, "is so involved in the rhetor
ic of running a government that it 
seems to have forgotten its pur
pose. Our Student Government is 
more like that you would find in a 
high school." Miss Polanick believesthat the performance of our 
Student Government is barely ade
quate and far less than it could or 
should be. "Student Government 
must be the means for publicly 
carrying student demands to the 
administration." she emphasizes. 
We won't be given what we want 
unless we re willing to work hard 
and fight for it."
The Tartan will accept applica
tions for all positions on the news
paper tor 1970-71. Applications 
must be submitted to Erica Bor
den. Room 50. Skibo. by Friday. 
March 13.
Although no previous experi
ence is necessary, applications 
must include a list of qualifica
tions and activities as well as a 
specific statement of what you 
would like to do with the paper, 
how you think you can improve the 
overall quality anti how you could 
improve the particular position 
lor which you are applying.
The applications will be review
ed by the stall after vacation and 
a decision will be released on 
April 10. The newly appointed 
stall will take over at that time.
Positions on both the editorial 
and business stall are open. On 
the editorial stall, the office of
editor, managing editor, news di
tons'. leatures editor, copy and 
desk editors and layout are open. 
The positions ot sports ditons 
are available to interested and 
qualified candidates. Local and 
national advertising under the 
business stall also need people.
And. ot course, there is always 
the vital and exciting photograph) 
stall.
The Tartan is one ot the most 
vital communication links on cam
pus. It needs help tor it can only 
be as good as its stall.
,iNN S-oD .odS9eN Oe koDD OrN OG S-N leN2S OrND OG 2LL SokNf w. &IiIhAl feggti-m UFgv ^tehaitTRlN
q2,uCnNmM mymi3 92mnMl3 loM fiCMl3
Editorial and Business OfficesSkibo 103 
Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213Telephone: 682-4557
ERICA BORDEN, 7MCpri0Co0eNCmd
tnnreClpm 7MCpri Jenifer Digby
A2nComnn blolvmi Sue Cattano
blolvCov 7MCpri Wayne Barron
Wman 7MCpri Jamie Edlin
fmlp2imn 7MCpri Chuck Daly
wgripn 7MCprin Alan Letzt and Larry Brean
"mnx 7MCprin Meredith Hall and Harriet Nadel
qNrprvilgN3 7MCprin William Pence
and Joe Tyler
RESERVED 
SEATS HOW 
IIOV-OEFHE 
OK BY MAIL
\TPATTON
20 Cm*nr fe *'
a:oiM>i:c/KAitL SCOTT / MALDENNIXON
956 LIBERTY AYE.
DOWNTOWN 
PHONE: 281-6773
All Evenings at 8:30 
Sun. thru Thurs. Eve.Orch & Mezz............$2.50Balcony ..................$2.00
Fri. & Sat. Eve.Orch. & Mezz. . $3.00Balcony .................$2.50Matinees at 2:00 P.M.
Sunday Mat.Orch & Mezz........ $2.50Balcony ............... $2.00
Wed. & Sat. Mat.Orch. & Mezz......... $2.25Balcony .......... $1.75
Seats also ot Network Ticket Agencies Located In all National Record Marts
NOWSHOWING
in
"PATTON"
i FIANI McCIITMT FRANKLIMI SCHAfTNil MOOUCTION HAN* kCMTKT 
fimi IN I SCMrfNH flANCIS FOM COWIU t fSMUNO H NCI IN
5thNa meAce *wTiiiuimr uoisus pdot .vi nNdodnnhoh
.OHMN MIOlCT   - KMT fiOlOSMITH 
COIOIII ((UK*
GP
ALL ACCS AOMiTVCGx'liM
DlHteiOli.150

---------------------------------------------------

Friday, March 6, 1970THE TARTANPage 11
8laimoem "2iimuu 9r zCym qrmpi3 4mlMCov
Lawrence Durrell. author ot
 The Alexandria Quartet ' will 
give a reading ot his poems for 
the International Poetry Forum 
on Thursday. April 2nd at 8:30 
pm. at the Carnegie Lecture
Hall.
Lawrence Durrell was born 
in India, ot Anglo-Irish parents, 
in 1912. When he was 10 years 
old he was sent to England 
where was educated at St. Ed
mund's School in Canterbury. 
He was determined to become a 
writer, and. at the age of 23. 
after working briefly at various 
jobs in London (he was at the 
time a jazz pianist in a night 
club), he led his widowed 
mother and three younger sis
ters and brothers to the Greek 
island of Corfu, a sundrenched 
part of the world which he con
sidered appropriate for the be
ginning of a literary career.
There he wrote the poetry 
that made his name known in
publishing circles and which 
won for him the support of T.S. 
Eliot. There, too. he wrote 
The Black Book, which has 
been described as an  extra
ordinary tone poem of a novel." 
and which was published in 
Paris in 1938. He made lengthy 
visits to Paris late in the 1930 s. 
until World War II changed his 
whole way of life. To elude the 
Germans who were invading 
Greece, he escaped to Corfu, 
with hiw wife and infant daugh
ter. in a small sailboat. He was 
evacuated from there to Egypt. 
He spent the rest of the war years 
in Alexandria and Cairo, serv
ing the British Foreign Office as 
Press Attache.
After the war he served in 
Rhodes and in Argentina (where 
he was Director of the British 
Council Institute: and from 1949 
to 1952 he was Press Attache in 
Belgrade. His last official post 
was Director of Public Relations
Government of Cyprus (1952- 
1956i. At present he is settled 
in France, where his recreations 
include painting and brick-lay
ing. but. as he said in Julv. 
1957:
' The only job I knew was 
the most time-wasting and ex
hausting in the world. I had to 
try to do my writing between 
telegrams, telephone calls, and 
briefs. I write best when I don't 
have to earn money, but mostly 
I have to. I an now trying to 
settle in Provence, where red 
wine costs a shilling a litre, 
cigarettes are cheap, and sun
shine unrationed: but I'm af
raid this will sound hedonistic."
Lawrence Durrell's wife 
Claude, the writer and transla
tes a Frenchwoman, died early 
in 1967. He had previously been 
twice married, and has two 
daughters.
Any account of Lawrence 
Durrell's literary achievements
must concentrate on the four 
brilliant, creative, and important 
novels which he has entitled 
The Alexandria Quartet: Jus
tine (1957), Balthazr (1958), 
Mountolive (1959), and Clea 
(1969). Mountolive was the Bookof-the-Month Club selections for 
April. 1959. he received the 
Duff Cooper Memorial Prize. 
1957. for Bitter Lemons and 
Prix du Meilleur Livre Etranger 
(French). 1959. for Justine and 
Balthazar.
Although Durrell is thought 
of as a novelist it is his poetry 
which made Henry Miller call 
him. The master of the English 
language. . . ." and prompted 
T.S. Eliot's remark. "The first 
piece of work by a new English 
writer to give me any hope for 
the future. " Durrell's Collected 
Poems included everything he 
wished to preserve at the time 
of its publication in 1960. His 
newest volume of poetry is 
The Ikons and Other Poems
which was published in 1967. 
He is the author of three verse 
plays: Sappho, Acte, and An 
Irish Fautus.
In addition to the famed "alexandira Quartet" (Anouk Aimee 
starred as Justine in the movie 
Justine based on the Quartet). 
Durrell's other novels include 
The Dark Labyrinth, Tunc, and 
Numquam. Durrell has written 
books about life on three Greek 
islands: Bitter Lemons, a book 
about his Cypriot experiences. 
Reflections on a Marine Venus 
about life in Corfu, and Prosperos Cell, a book about Rhodes. 
Esprit De Corps, Stiff Upper Lip, 
and Sauve Qui Paut are three 
collections of stories represent
ing humorous aspects of diplo
matic life.
Tickets for the reading are 
available through the Forum 
office in Carnegie Library (Oak
land ) 621-9893.
Hickel Confronts College Editors
by Erica Borden
In probably his roughest confrontation in thirteen 
months as Secretary of the Interior. Walter Hickel 
adcressed 1.100 college editors in Washington Satur
day. Greeted with shouts of "War criminal. "Resign! " 
and "Let the man speak. " Hickel answered questions 
ranging troni his. personal Holdings, anu the plight ot 
the Indians to the ABM system and pollution.
Hickel opened the hour long press conference by 
"congratulating the audience no matter what happens
here."
The questions from the audience were so pin-pointed and detailed that Hickel was moved, during the 
course of the conference, to state. "Standing in front 
of this group. I don't think I know too much."
The tirst question, concerning pollution, asked Hickel 
to justify the defoliation of a 100 foot strip on the 
border between the United States and Canada. Although 
Hickel said he was unaware of this, and agreed that in 
his position he should have been aware. "I could think 
of better ways to have boundaries than by destroying 
nature."
Another questioner asked Hickel why a man who was 
 drilling holes" in Santa Barbara and had helped to cre
ate the oil slick, was appointed to the Committee to in
vestigate the situation. Hickel responded that he did 
not appoint the Committee members: "The President 
did."
Referring to the government's plan of fining indus
tries $10,000 per day for not complying with federal 
pollution standards, and the establishment of 180 dayperiod within which industries must develop a plan to 
control pollution. Hickel said. "We've only taken a 
small step. It's like when we went to the moon."
One editor interrupted to ask. "Why did we go to 
the moon?"
"That's a good question. " Hickel responded.
Another editor shouted out "Why doesn t the govern
ment give industries two years for developing a plan, 
instead of the 180 days.
Hickel stated that the Bureau of Internal Affairs 
(BIA) which oversees the Indian reservations, was 
"overprotective" and that the Indians always "had the 
crutch of being able to return to the reservations." In
stead they "must be involved."
As a partial solution. Hickel said that the BIA 
should be restructured. When asked why the BIA exists 
at all. Hickel answered. "I don't know."
Hickel was also accused of owning substantial oil 
holdings in Alaska which he "absolutely denied." of
Ecology Teach-In April 1-4
by Barbara Hobbs
The Environmental Teach-In 
planned for April 1 - 4 on the 
campuses of C-MU. Pitt, and Duquesne was awarded $1,000 by 
Student Senate Tuesday with the 
provision that this amount will 
be matched by funds from the 
administration. The Senate 
hopes to receive the rest of the 
estimated budget of $16,000 from 
Pitt. Duquesne. industry, and 
other outside sources.
The Teach-In hopes to focus 
its attention on Pollution. Qual
ity of Life. Ecoloty. Population 
and Resources, and Direction 
and Action. It would like to 
achieve some constructive re
sults. rather than merely invit
ing confrontation.
The Presidents of the three 
colleges will serve as Honorary 
Lo-Chairmen. And a thirteen 
member Steering, Committee 
will be made up of three C-MU 
students, three Pitt students, 
two C-MU faculty members, two 
Idt faculty members, one Du
quesne faculty member, and two 
outside coordinators.
Iour days of events will begin 
the morning of April 1st on Flag
staff Hill with McLean, a folk 
singer. That afternoon the topic 
Pollution will be discussed 
Dr. Richard Vaught (Public 
Health Service. Dr. Myrik Free
man (RFFt. Raymond F. Dasmann (Conservative Foundation, 
and others. They will explore 
more fully the pollution of our 
air. earth, and water.
On the second day. the TeachIn will host Dr. Anthony Downs 
(Real Estate Research Corp. and 
Stewart Brandborg (Exec. Direc
tor Wilderness Society speaking 
on the Quality of Life. Roland 
Clement from the V.P. Audubon 
Society will speak on Ecoloby 
that afternoon. A Keynote Add
ress has been scheduled that 
night at Syria Mosque. Professor 
Kenneth Bouldmg will speak, and 
Senator Muskie. and Mr. Close 
(Alcoa have also been invited 
to speak, but as yet. have not ac
cepted.
The subject of Population and 
Resources will be dealt with the 
third day by Professor Roger 
Revelle (Harvard and Dr. Hans 
Landsberg (RFFi. The afternoon 
of the same day will be devoted 
to Direction and Action. This 
will consist largely of local peo
ple taking part in panels and 
workshops: for example, aca
demics. citizen groups, ad hoc 
experts, and the business com
munity.
The final day of the TeachIn will be devoted to more work
shops. local displays, films, and 
celebration. There will be 8-10 
hours of films running continu
ously throughout the Teach-In.
tEEMxEcnx &nxI VtcFf
Fashion of today. Do you have a hair problem, taking care 
of your long hair? Do you want to be a new you? Visit 
ENRICO, he's a genius in that field, because it requires 
Ability and Technique as a Talented Artist like ENRICO. 
Haircutting isn't just a matter of snipping! This famous 
hairstylist actually shapes each section of your hair, to suit 
your own facial contours. And to give you that casual look 
of ROMEO," the "CAESAR," the "SHAG," the "WIND 
BLOWN" cut of today fashion. Every man should know 
about Thinning Hair ... is your Hair weak or flimsy? Do 
you suffer from dandruff, itchey scalp? Why w8rry? EN
RICO, he's a genius. He can advise you to condition your 
hair and scalp. Also Customized in the new Julius Caesar 
hairpiece's.
EVM xMs MxFcHn it&nx
207 Oakland Ave. below Forbes By Appointment 682-3738
fering the holdings to anybody who could find them.
When asked whether or not he thought he should 
take a position on the Vietnam War. Hickel replied that 
he did not have the information at hand necessary to 
make such a decision. The President is doing the 
most responsible thing he can do in trying to bring 
the war to an end in good face." he added.
Other questions referred to the Appalachia poor, the 
oppressive military system as evidenced by the lottery, 
and the war. Hickel replied that "There s a lot even 
the President wants to straighten out."
On the ABM. he said. "I'm going to stick with my 
President."
One question referred to the population explosion; 
"Other countries advocate sterilization. Are Americans 
a super race?"
"It's a world problem." Hickel said. "People don t 
listen to the government and in most cases that s good. 
If Nixon tells you to stop having children, you wouldn t 
doit. Do what you want to do!"
Hickel recommended that American inventory her 
lands to determine then bes.t and widest use. In addi
tion. he said "we need a department of natural resourc
es and environmental control."
CEDAR POINT
txxnbxHMi 
EVcFu txxbt&
TALENT 
iMtFHV
!COIIItTESY CORPS
cxEMFqcMsi
t IFMtE ibyyMF 
MyC&n0yMxE nCCnFEbxcE0
AREA AUDITION
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
| WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18
WEBSTER HALL HOTEL 
Georgian Terrace 
IntorvMwi 3:00 p.m. 
Audition 5:00 p.m.
WRITE:
CEDAR POINT 
LIVE SHOW DEPT. 
SANDUSKY.
OHIO 44870

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12THE TART ANFriday, March 6, 1970
qNrpr ,3 Emii3 wCnxCoM 
City pot-hole tilling truck makes the rounds but leaves curbside holes untilled.
Elections To Use Voting Machines
by Vincent J. Misitano, Jr.
In a motion passed during a recent Student Sen
ate meeting, the use of voting machines in the up
coming SG elections was approved. The machines 
are to be obtained from the Allegheny County Elec
tions Bureau, which is supplying all the necessary 
services without cost to Student Government.
The senators who initiated the suggestion of us
ing the machines stated several reasons for their 
use:
1. Only one person is needed to tend a polling area 
using the machines, whereas with the paper bal
lot method two persons were usually needed. 
Therefore use of the machines makes possible 
the setting up of more polling places, thus ensur
ing a better voting turnout.
2. With paper ballots, it is customary to have 10-12 
people spend up to two hours tallying votesthe 
voting machines will completely eliminate this 
task.
3. The use of the machines will be an educational 
experience in itself, preparing students for later 
encounters in public elections. It is also thought 
that the machines, through their novelty appeal, 
will attract many students who would not other
wise take the time and effort to vote.
On last Tuesday. March 3, two senators spent 
over two hours downtown at the election bureau, be
coming thoroughly educated about all the intricacies 
that go into setting up a ballot on a machine for a 
particular election, and the subsequent recording of 
the votes. They are very happy to report, though, 
that the process of voting on the machines is sur
prisingly simple. The procedure is based on the fol
lowing: All students of C-MU are in one of five con
stituenciesDormitory, AWS. Fraternity, Male 
Commuter, or Graduate Student. On the voting ma
chine are five rows corresponding to these consti
tuencies. When a voter arrives at a polling station, 
the attendant will determine his constituency, 
punch his ID card, and set a lever on the outside 
of the machine that allows the voter to register 
votes only in the row of his constituency. Votes are 
set on the machine by flipping small levers over the 
candidates names. While inside the poll, a voter 
may change a vote if he wishes. When he is finish
ed voting, he presses a red button which registers 
his vote permanently within the machine. The voter 
then exits and the next voter enters the poll. Since 
elections for College Council candidates will also 
take place at this time, these candidates are also 
listed in the machines. Only CIT voters will vote for 
the CIT canddidates, H&SS for the H&SS candidates 
and MMCC for the MMCC candidates.
An interesting feature which was not present in 
recent elections is the validity of write-in votes. 
This is managed on a machine by slide-away win
dows located at the top of the machine. A voter 
merely slides aside the window which is in the col
umn of the appropriate office and writes in his 
choice.
Even though it is thought that the voting proce
dure is not difficult, arrangements have been made 
to have a Demonstrator'' machine brought to Skibo sometime bn Monday. This machine will be open 
for students to practice" on. if they wish, all of 
Monday and Tuesday. Also, the compelete ballot, as 
it will appear in the machine will be printed in the 
Tuesday edition of the Tartan. Copies of this ballot 
will also be posted around campus on Monday.
Majors Discussed
Students with questions about departments or major options will 
be able to meet informally with representatives from all departments 
in CIT and H&SS on Tuesday, March 10, from 11:30 a.m. until 1:30 p.m. 
in the Staff Dining Room, lower level, Skibo.
Undergraduates, graduate students, and faculty members will rep
resent each department. This arrangement will hopefully provide a 
more balanced, comprehensive view of each course of study and its re
lated field than is otherwise available to the student.
This meeting is being sponsored by the Scimitar Society, C-MU's 
sophomore men s honorary. Free refreshments will be served.
trmOrN orSNeNDSN1 or Semorl O9S GOe 
S-N qtFicE0 In&h EMtyR kNNS or 
GeOrS OG S-N Imkr2Do9k 2S U:)UP 
.6k6 Or y2ed- UBR U3R UpR 2r1 7U6
iI 2rrO9rdND Cn&&cxI EcyMi 
2r1 C&tHMi
Wednesday and Thursday 
March 11th and 12th
Skibo Lobby  Baker Hall 
Morewood Lobby 
[Donner Hall  Fine Arts Bldg 
BE SURE TO BRING YOUR 
STUDENT ID CARD!
AU TIMES are 8:30 pr 4:30-UJ.
Important 
IM Meeting
|Tuesday at 12:30 p.m.j 
in Black Cat Lounge
: ? f ; JjAII-School and All-Star Basrfketball nominations will be! 
{held.
JACOB C. RABINOW
Vice President, Rabinow laboratory
Control Data Corporation 
will speak on
THE ART & BUSINESS OF INVENTING
SCAIFE HALL AUDITORIUM 
Tuesday, March 10th 
11:30 a.m.
Mr. Rabinow is a highly successful 
inventor with 179 U.S. patents and 
numerous others pending. Among 
them are patents for the automatic 
regulation of clocks and watches 
used in all American automobile 
clocks today, many ordnance devic
es, and many inventions in the field 
of optical character recognition.
Among his more recent work is the 
development of automatic machinery 
for the sorting of letter mail for the 
Post Office Department.
In 1964 his own organization, Rabi
now Engineering Corporation be
came a wholly owned subsidiary of 
Control Data Corporation.
He is a member of the National In
ventor's Council and the recipient of 
many honors. Mr. Rabinow has giv
en much thought to how inventing is 
accomplished and how to test for in
venting ability.
Sponsored by the Departments of
Computer Science and Mechanical 
Engineering and by the 
Office of the Deqn, CIT
Bootleg Handbooks
*
Ten thousand copies of the McGill University Birth Control Hand
book. weighing close to a ton and destined for distribution by Student 
Senate to C-MU. Pitt and Chatham, have been picked up in London On
tario by Patrick Cavanagh and Vincent J. Misitano. Jr. Described in the 
Whole Earth Catalog as the most creative and informative booklet of 
its kind. the handbook's distribution in the United States has unfor
tunately been halted recently by the Customs Department.
Seeing the tremendous injustice of this deed, our dynamic duo has 
set out to outwit the American bureaucracy. In a nonce. Cavanagh and 
Misitano flew to London Wednesday night and rented a Canadian UHaul truck to transport the handbooks to Buffalo. There they hired a 
lawyer to fast talk, connive and otherwise flamboozle their way across 
the border. The handbooks are then to be transferred to an American 
truck and brought to beautiful downtown Pittsburgh.
The convoy should arrive today, grid willing, if the two are not jail
ed at the border.
International Fair
The International Fair is re
turning to C-MU on Wednesday 
and Thursday. March 11 and 12. 
This year it is sponsored by Phi 
Sigma Upsilon service sorority, 
in conjunction with the YM and 
YWCA and the C-MU Child Devel
opment Center. The fair will be 
held between 11:30 a.m. and 5 
p.m. in the lobby of Skibo. Pro
ceeds will go towards the procure
ment of transportation for chil
dren from the Hill District of * 
Pittsburgh who are presently "on 
scholarship'' at the Child Develop
ment Center.
The Fair will feature jewelry, 
collector's items, rugs, spreads, 
and many, many more hand-crafted items imported from all over 
the world. You'll find the unique, 
the unusual at the International 
Fair. Plan on stopping by the 11th hN 
and 12th of this month.
Cavanagh says:
What is good for General Motors 
... is good for General Motors.
Elusive God Found 
On Faith, by CMU Students
by Robert B. Griffiths 
Professor of Physics
At the first meeting of the Ex
istance of God seminar on Mon
day night, two graduate students 
in Electrical Engineering discuss
ed some of the traditional argu
ments for God s existence and 
pointed out some serious difficul
ties in these arguments.
Pete Cook outlined the Ontolo
gical Argument (God as the 
Greatest Conceivable Being") 
and showed that it has numerous 
flaws. The Cosmological Argu
ment (God as First Cause) was 
similarly disposed of, though with 
an even more technical discus
sion.
Mike Doreau showed greater 
sympathy towards the Argument 
from Religious Experience, 
though he too acknowledged seri
ous defects, in particular, how one 
judges the qualifications and reli
ability of someone who claims to 
have had a religious experience.
Towards the end of the seminar 
several members of the audience 
(which somewhat exceeded the 
comfortable capacity of the Lang 
Seminar Room) began to press 
the speakers, both of whom claim
to believe in God, with the ques
tion of why, since the traditional 
arguments are so defective, they 
have any grounds at all for believ
ing in God s existence.
The answers given were vague. 
Pete Cook said that he regarded 
God's existence as hypothesis, in 
some sense, comparable to those 
which occur in the sciences, which 
leads to observable consequences, 
in particular in the realm of mor
als and human personality, which 
are not adequately explained by 
alternative hypotheses (presum
ably including atheism). He did 
not spell out any observable con
sequences in detail.
The seminar meets again on 
Monday night. March 9, at 9 in the 
Lang Seminar Room, 115 MMCC, 
to hear David Wojick, a graduate 
student in philosophy at Pitt, pre
sent A Defense of Atheism. In 
light of the first seminar, it is 
not clear that atheism needs to be 
defended, though it may be that 
the proponents of God s existence 
are holding their better arguments 
in reserve for a counterattack af
ter Wojick's presentation, or for 
the final discussion in the series 
which takes place March 16.
FILMS
 UNDERGROUND
 EXPERIMENTAL
 UNCONVENTIONAL
 NON-THEATRICAL
hc&y ytacxI tE HYyb
A meeting will be held at 7:30 on Monday, March 9th 
in Skibo Room 45 for all those people interested IN ANY 
WAY in Film and Film Making on this campus.
 C-MU LACKS A FILM CURRICULUM
 C-MU LACKS A FILM WORKSHOP
 FILM AT C-MU LACKS ORGANIZATION
If you can attend meetingcontact:
GREG CAPLAN, MIKE HARBADIN or GEORGE KNISS 
in Department of Painting and Sculpture.
