 tartan
^P February 17, Volume 76 Number 19
this week
tarnt Clss offfffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff'r8t 0
glemty TthpuSyffffffffffffffffffffffffffff'r8t ov
ic.icT ptrn Brdtfffffffffffffffffffff'r8t oK
Housing Prices up From last Year
by Debbie Rosenkrantz
The Campus Services Board has de
cided on housing prices for 1976-77 
Some of the rates are lower than those 
originally proposed last week. The major 
discussion on the final rate structure was 
done at a meeting on February 10, 1976. 
However after two hours had passed and 
no decision had been reached, a meeting 
was planned for early the next morning 
and Vice President Richard Van Horn 
walked out saying, I have theater tickets.
I have to leave. Tell them the rates will be 
the same or lower.
During the meeting, occupancy levels, 
room prices and coops were the main top
ics of discussion. On the subject of room 
occupancy, the following exchange took 
place: Van Horn, If more people come 
than we expect, we may have to house 
more people. We hope not to exceed 
that (the reevaluated number) as a permanant occupancy for that room. Bill 
Jacobs (president of SDC): The students 
on the rvaluation committee were told 
that they were 'recommending maxi
mum occupancy. Dean Williams (Resi
dence Life): I dont see how it could 
be higher. And finally, Van Horn: ...its 
a realistic good faith gesture...the upper 
limits of comfortable occupancv. When 
Steve Zalewski, Head of Campus Ser
vices Board, was questioned later about 
the outcome of the previous discussion, 
he explained that under certain circum
stances, Maximum equals optimum.
All the administrators agreed that it 
was necessary for the housing rates to 
go up. Bill Dillon, Business Manager of 
the University explained that the debt 
service has to go up next year because of 
agreements made with HUD when they
Class of '80 
gets more money
by Paul Smith
The entering Freshman class of 1976 
should be of higher quality than any pre
ceding class, according to Bill Elliott, di
rector of Admissions. At the same time 
they will probably be the most heavily 
financed class to enter CMU.
Mr. Elliott believes that the quality of 
the entering student body will increase 
for several reasons, even though no hard 
and fast cumulative data is yet available. 
This year the school will admit only 950 
freshmen and 150 transfers. CMU had 
4000 applicants this year. This allows the 
University to be selective. Its a simple 
case of economics, in that since the supply 
(number of openings) is limited and the 
demand (students) is great, the seller 
(CMU) can demand, and will get, a higher 
quality student for its commodity (educa
tion and a CMU degree). However, the stu
dent who will be desirable for CMU will 
also be desired by our competition (Stan
ford, MIT, Lehigh). Because of this, there 
is an inverse relationship between the 
quality and the probability of getting that 
student.
Financial aid, from all sources; Federal, 
State, CMU and private companies, will in
crease from 6.1 million to 6.7 million 
dollars. This increase is being caused by 
two factors: the increased numbers of
loaned the University the money to build 
Hammerschlag, Doherty, Donner, the 
new wings on Mudge, and E tower of 
Morewood. The increase is very specif
ically legally required. The increase in 
the amortization (setting aside money for 
future renovations) category was explainrates would alleviate the situation where 
the rates are higher than are reasonable 
given the current housing market by 
evening out inconsistancies in relative 
worth of rooms in different classifications 
and generally lowering the rates. Mark 
Fox, president of Mudge Graduate CounThe Campus Services 
structures.
ed by Mr. Van Horn as being necessary 
because presently more money is bing 
taken out of the amortization fund than 
is being put in. Also, large amounts of 
money will be needed in the near future 
to replace the boiler system and windows 
in Morewood Gardens. Dean Williams ex
plained that increased rates on utilities 
will also necessitate higher prices.
Bill Jacobs proposed a rate structure 
with prices anywhere up to $100 less
than those proposed by the administra
tion, explaining that he felt that the SIX
Board met to discuss room occupancy levels and final price
cil reported, The Mudge residents are 
unable to come up with a new rate struc
ture until we have a more detailed break
down of the housing budgetAt this 
point, Dean Swank (Student Affairs), said 
I think we should take seriously the reccommendations of SDC\ Were dealing 
with a preliminary budget. Some changes 
would allow the rate structure to move 
toward the recommendations of SDC. 
Van Horn commented,Were not recov
ering our expenses... Mark Fox stated, 
Youve priced yourself out of the mar
ket. Peter Fletcher (Co-ops) , in adressing the administration said, You dont 
mind if people move off campus because 
now there arent enough spaces...In the 
future... Mr. Zalewski restated that the 
rates were not set to encourage people to 
move off campus. Mr. Van Horn stated 
that the Universitys housing shouldnt 
be going up faster than off campus.
Mr. Van Horn explained that CMU has a 
lower mortgage rate than most commer
cial buildings. In addition, CMU does not 
have to pay property tax. However, the 
R.A. program, custodial service (20% of
continued on page eleven
Keyboard Stolen 
from Plato Room
by Michael Baurer
The PLATO Program was installed in 
Science Hall a few years ago as one of the 
innovations made possible by the $300.000 
Carnegie Grant. Although its care and oper
ation have remained under the auspices of 
Professors Schumacher and Levine of the 
Physics Department, and its use geared pri
marily to the students of that department, 
it has served as a teaching and learning aid 
to other students as well. Located in ScH 
8404 are PLATOS four terminals, each 
with its own keyboard. Two weekends ago, 
one of these keyboards was stolen from the 
terminal room. Its thief and ifs wherea
bouts remain as yet unknown. The follow
ing note appeared on the door of 8404 that 
Monday:
Note to all PLATO Users
As you know one of the PLATO key
board has been stolen. Although it was inContinued on page twenty
Changes Made in Hist Program
Clss bsslPnnR wlStenPS PM cHLlddlPadf
photo by Kathi Leichter
students attending school and the increased 
costs (approximately 325.00 per student). 
Because of that, the number of students on 
financial aid will increase from 2000 to ap
proximately 2200 students. This increase 
will be partly met by an increase in grants, 
but also by an increase in work study and 
loan programs. In a related field, Mr. Wal
ter Cathie expressed concern over the fact 
that a recent financial aid forum was at
tended by only 22 (5 graduate and 17 un
dergraduate) students. This, unfortunately, 
was the grand total for the three different 
sessions held. The forums were held to im
prove communication between students 
and the financial aid office. Mr. Cathie be
lieves that this is an indication that either 
Were communicating very well and the 
students are happy with the programs, 
which I dont believe, or else they are very 
apathetic and dont give a damn.
by Laurie Trask
Next year, several substantial changes 
will be made in the structure of the His
tory Major program. Dr. Fowler, chairman 
of the Committee on Undergraduate Stu
dies in the Department of History, sees 
these as A major revision of the under
graduate...program.
This will be the last semester of the for
ty-eight unit History Semester, which used 
to be mandatory in the spring semester of 
the sophomore year. Fowler explained, 
Were cutting that in half (down to 24 
units) and will rename it History Work
shop. In addition, there will be two new, 
required courses: The Nature of Historical 
Understanding (Exploration of the ways in 
which one gains understanding, through 
the studies of problems of past societies, 
that can be applied to the problems of con
temporary society.) and Great Ideas in 
the West (Study of fundamental ideas from 
the ancient world to the twentieth centu
ry,) and were introducing a Senior Collo
quium (Student-defined research topics 
within an area each year defined by the 
History Department).
Next fall will also mark the beginning 
of an undergraduate concentration in Ap
plied History. It will be offered, at first, as 
a pilot program until the program is lurther 
developed. More emphasis woukl be
placed...on th~ importance of understand
ing past societ s in their own terms. Appli
cation of sucl historical understanding to 
modem social problems will occupy a les
ser place than in the graduate program... 
While the graduate program in Applied 
History will assume a good command of 
history, the undergraduate will not. 
These changes in the History Depart
ment came about after the six-member 
committee considered at length several 
important issues. According to the reccomeridations of the Committee on Under
graduate Studies, these issues are:
(1) our strong impression that many of 
our major students now enter the History 
Semester, our central experience in re
search and writing, with inadequate skills, 
inadequate understanding of what history 
is and how historians work, and little 
knowledge of any history outside Ameri
can.
(2) our belief that students majoring in 
history would benefit greatly from a cap
stone experience in reading,...and writing 
in history in their senior year.
(3) our sense that the history major 
can be made more attractive to more stu
dents, especially those with aptitude in 
quantitative skills and with deep concerns 
about relating their major work to post
baccalaureate employment, if we introduce 
a concentration in applied history within 
the program.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2THE TARTAN-February 17,1976editors note
"A Minor Fiasco"
More than any other single item, a university's under
graduate catalog is responsible for the composition of its 
entering class. The catalog is the primary resource for appli
cants from which they base (at least in part) their decisions 
to apply to and attend CMU. In addition, the catalog has 
the
potential to be a major reference for students already en
rolled, providing information concerning: course offerings; 
academic options and programs; and general university 
procedures and regulations.
That the catalog is indeed as important as asserted above 
is confirmed by President Richard M. Cyert's concern that it 
be produced with the utmost of care. Dr. Cyert stated in a 
memo issued shortly after the completion of the 1974-76 
Catalog that "We have just finished a minor fiasco in regards 
to the catalog. I had made strong statements to the students 
that we would use them to go over the catalog, and I believe 
that effectively this was not done. Dr. Cyert went on to 
propose that in order to prevent similar problems with the 
1977-79 Catalog, an attempt should be made to obtain 
"significant inputs from the students." He proposed the 
formation of an editorial advisory board (to include students, 
faculty and administrators) and charged this group with 
looking into such matters as precisely defining the role of 
the catalog and how to best achieve this role. The President 
concluded: "I hope that you will all do something about the 
matter and that Bill Elliott will take the responsibility of 
calling a group together at an appropriate time to discuss 
plans for the next approach."
Last Friday was the deadline for preliminary copy and 
layouts for the next Undergraduate Catalog.
Although students were actively involved in the writing 
of department descriptions, I am not aware of any editorial 
advisory board which includes students. What is more, 
the next catalog will include the same type of information as 
the current one, a decision made without the prior discussion 
suggested by Dr. Cyert in 1974. Has anything really changed?
One possible change would be to alter the catalog's 
format to better represent its dual purpose. This would be 
done by publishing two seperate volumes; one serving as a 
promotional, admissions catalog and the other as a bulletin of 
information for already enrolled students.
The catalog would be printed every two years and would 
contain only the information which is relevant to applicants. 
This would include: a wealth of photographs and descriptions 
which give a general feeling for CMU; an outline of academic 
programs including listings of course offerings and possibly a 
brief description of freshman required courses; and, informa
tion on application and financial aide procedures. This 
bi-annual publication would be geared to the "market" of 
high school students who are currently selecting an institu
tion of higher learning.
The bulletin would replace all the dittoed materials 
currently made available by various departments to those 
students fortunate enough to know of their existence. It 
would be an annual publication detailing what it takes to 
survive at CMU, including: current course descriptions; 
a detailed description of degree requirements; a description 
of options and new programs; and, a description of current 
university resources, policies and regulations. The existence 
of the bulletin would help what has already been identified as 
the lack of an adequate advising system on this campus by 
keeping students informed of the university's academic 
alternatives and resources.
The point is not whether or not the above recommenda
tion is actually instituted but rather that the whole university 
community sit down and consider the options before pro
ducing another two-year disaster.
Gary Singer, Editor
Note to Readers and Advertisers:Due to the February Break, 
the TARTAN will not be publishing again until March 2.
w me \9 apwe&ie -mcuum ?
   byDeiR=> 5 A FeeUN2>-~"
Wtft> AR6 'TTte Fec>PJ AT CM*2
...APPPe>MM/\reos nkrrr srVPENT5 
we ON CAMW5...,f
 TACIMI!AT Moce&rtPA/T FfrA^Tlce 
Afop SOJploS FDTZp/N ARTS SruPE'T^-..
letters
Correction
Editor:
A correction to your editorial 
of February 10 - FOLLIES is a 
joint production of the depart
ments of Drama and Music with 
box office open to the general 
public.
Lawrence Carra 
Head, Drama 
Irresponsible Gibberish 
Editor:
I must ask, in all seriousness, 
that you stop printing the irre
sponsible gibberish of L.S.D.C. 
Though some of his/her past col
umns have bordered on sheer 
stupidity, the column of the 
Feb. 10 TARTAN went over the 
edge. Having worked closely 
with 2 of the last 3 safety in
spectors, I can safely say that 
there is no extra-curricular job at 
this school which is more de
manding or time-consuming than' 
that of safety inspector. There 
is no such thing as a lackadais
ical safety inspector, and it 
should not be necessary to de
fend this point. While there were 
2 accidents in last years race, 
neither was caused by a failure 
of a buggys safety features, nor 
was anyone seriously hurt. All 
safety rules were strictly enforced to the maxumum extent last 
year. What else can be asked for?
There is no greater hazard in 
writing, than writing on a sub
ject of which you have no know
ledge. Youll only make yourself 
look like a fool, which is what 
L.S.D.C. has clearly done.
Dave Kanner 
1975 Sweepstakes Chairman
The Inspiring Humanities 
Editor:
When asked about a re
cent editorial in the Tartan 
calling for discontinuing the 
granting of degrees in the 
humanities, Dr. Cyert comment
ed that the editorial was saying 
the right things.
In the computerized era we 
live in, where numbers and 
abstractions dominate the build
ings of Carnegie-Mellon Univer
sity, an emphasis in the humani
ties should be the crux of the 
universitys backing. Now more 
than ever, human beings need, 
and desperately need the works 
of Shakespeare and Joyce, the 
history of the impressionist 
artists, and why Adolf Hitler 
took power. In other words, 
it is the humanities itself which 
inspires the engineer to become 
an engineer, the statistician to 
become a statistian, and the
American scholar to become 
the American scholar. The value 
of a humane education is all the 
more important, especially when 
we inhabit an inhumane world. | 
I ask whether or not there is 
more in a calculus problem than 
there is in a Shakespearean 
tragedy? A quantatative prob
lem has only one answer, while 
a Shakespearean play hasnt a 
correct answer. The humanities, 
in short, deals with the human 
condition and its universality. _ 
It is in the humanities where 
one can feel empathy, sympa
thy, joy, etc,, and not be overly 
concerned with pecuniary mat
ters. The United States of Amer
ica is going to be two hundred 
years old, and I believe that if 
Jefferson, Adams, Hamilton, and 
our other founding fathers were 
alive today, they would be li) 
horrified at our technological 
and materialistic state, and if 
they were to visit the grounds of 
Carnegie-Mellon University, their 
pessimistic attitude would only
be reinforced.
Thomas Jesse Schwartz
The TARTAN welcomes letters 
from its readers. We reserve the 
right to withhold or edit letters 
but will try to give a fair repre
sentation of all the views it re
ceives.
*
"PsuLt AKtartan
FtpSurSy oARo,AKTuLptS o,
Editor in Chief 
rSy la8tS
Managing Editor: B(rSl td glne( 
Business Manager:Tom )lSmsraH 
News Editor: wtpplt .PdtamSranU
Entertainment Editor grSm B(lLdmy 
Trapeze Editor:Rick BPdnr 
Sports Editor: bssy IlLLtSLra 
Photography Editor: bsslPn jP'PhlnU
Staff Photographers: Tim Fabian, Mary K. Groupe, James Johnston, Kathi Leichter, Mark Segal, Fred Shamlian 
Carl West and Paul Williams.
Copyrighted 1976 by the Carnegie -Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit 
or withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Govern
ment of Carnegie -Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; [4121 
621-2600 extention656 or 481. Business Offices: Skibo 52; {4121 682-4557.
c:: .;Di .bb."bw
4

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANFebruary 17, 1976Page 5
Schlag
tarn
by Jon McGrow
/ r* II RAs coordinated the planning and execu
tion of the party, and he did a super job.
Many were surprised at how well the 
party came off, some saying that they 
wished all fraternity mixers came off as 
well. A definite void was filled with this 
party, if nothing else than to give the camSaturday, February 7th saw a first for Pus residents an opportunity, outside of 
the hill dorms. Hamerschlag House gave a the fraternities, to party and meet new 
party for everyone and, if you pardon the PeoPle. Needless to say, many more parties 
triteness, a good time was had by all. For like this need to happen on the hill bethe first time ever, an entire dorm spon- cause, as we all know, CMU is far from the 
sored a mixer, and this dance was open to Party capital of western PA. The SDC has 
the entire campus. The music was good, money for parties, all you need do is ask.
The organizers of the First Schlag Party 
want to thank the people who came, and 
to invite them and everyone else to their 
second one in April; that is if all goes 
well, and Schlag is able to get some SDC 
sponsorship. Then a bigger, better and 
wilder party will certainly come about.
the people were right and the refreshments, 
after a problem with a faulty tap was fixed, 
were very good. The music was provided 
by an excellent stereo system brought to
gether by some of the residents of the 
Schlag; and the quality was tremendous. 
Bob Luthultz, one of the Hamerschlag
;M 1Pu i(lam 
9a7BrL'ud DPudla8 .rntd rSt iPP Dl8(R
MOVE OFF CAMPUS!
3 BEDROOM SHADYSIDE APARTMENT 
w/Dishwasher( Garbage 
Disposal & Large Kitchen, 
Washer & Dryer in Basement. 
$ 221/Plus Utilities
Available as of May 15th 7 o year lease For more information: Call 44A7-vA A
Faculty Sups 
on Crepes Filets
by Laurie Trask
At the beginning of this semester, Lud
wig F. J. Buchweiser became a food service 
consultant and acting catering manager. In 
charge of the faculty dining room, all pri
vate functions, and all catering, Buchweiser 
enjoys his job. I like to work with the fa
culty and students and I like the atmos
phere . . . Its the first time Ive ever been 
associated with a school.
Unlike the rest of the food service man
agers, Buchweiser was trained in Germany 
where he worked for the Steigenberg hotel 
chain. As a result, he is quite familiar with 
European cuisine. Every week, he runs a 
special faculty dinner, each with an inter
national theme. Next week, The Escoffier, a traditional French meal will be 
served. The menu includes Crepes Filets de 
Sole au Chablis (crepes filled with sole in 
wine and mushroom sauce), Tortue Claire 
(turtle soup made with sherry), Escalopes 
due Veau Oscar (Sauteed veal with aspara
gus, crabmeat, and hollandaise sauce), and 
for desert, Cerises Jubilee (flaming cherries 
jubilee, served over ice cream). While the 
meal is prepared under the auspices of 
Food Service, these special affairs are bud
geted separately. The price per person for 
the facultys French dinner is $6.50 for adults and $4.75 for children.
Buchweiser seems to find his job a chal
lenge: Basically, the food production and 
service is the same (as working in a hotel 
restaurant), with some different proce
dures. You have a larger volume here, and 
you work within a smaller per meal bud
get...
While the catering service generally 
serves only the university, it does cater any 
dinner held on campus, no matter what 
group is sponsoring it.
Bona Voted 
UFO Head
by Joseph Bartnicki
Teresa Bona has been elected to re
place Farrell Heifer as the President of the 
Unified Fraternal Organization. The twelve 
fraternities and five sororities have elected 
her to fill one of the most demanding jobs 
on campus. She will act as the representa
tive of the fraternities to the administra
tion, be responsible for appointing the 
chairmen to the various standing commit
tees (Rush, Housing Projects, Public Rela
tions, Student Government, Social, Greek 
Sing and Living) and appointing new com
mittees as needed. She will also appoint 
members to the student court. In general, 
she will supervise all the activities which go 
into the running of the organization;
During the term, there are some changes 
Theresa would like to see made. She would 
like to go over the schools constitution to 
eliminate possible contradictions between 
it and University Policy. The Constitution 
has not had a major rewrite since it was 
first implemented. Another area where she 
would like to see a change would be the 
recognition policy for fraternities and sor
orities. At present, there are 4 fraternities 
and 2 sororities petitioning for recogni
tion. Once recognized they would have to 
wait for 2 yeats before they would have 
the right to vote in fraternal affairs. She 
would like to see this waiting period shortned so that they would have a voice in 
whats going on.
Most importantly, Teresa will try to 
get people involved in the running of the 
organization. For instance she would like 
to see the committee chairmen be elected 
instead of appointed in the hope of remov
ing som of the apathy which has begun to 
develop.
......................(Illuminili.....iimimmmiiiiiiiiiimiimmiimmmmiiwmiiiimmmiiiiiiimiimmmm......................................................imiiiiiiHiiiiiuiiiiimHiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii|
Academic Sophomores, Juniors and Seniors
n
!
The above bill represents the $100 per month which you will
ScE8
TOs
;
receive.IF
you want the opportunity for a good job after graduation and 
you have two years remaining at CMU and ... 
you could use over $3000 to help pay for your education or .. 
you don't have a summer job and need one that will pay over 
$500 plus room and board for 6-weeks and ... 
you want to compete for a 2-year scholarship and ...
AND
you join the CMU ROTC program on campus next year.
* Junior arid Seniors who will 
be attending Graduate School
FOR INFORMATION CONTACT: 
MAJ John P. Carey, Gym 203 
Phone: 621-2600 X281/282

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6THE TARTAN-Febrtlary 17,1976
Carnegie Corperation Grant, Part II
by Claire Lee
Funds from the Carnegie Corporation 
have been used for a variety of innovative 
projects since the end of 1973, the date of 
the 300,000 dollar grant. As explained in 
the first part of this article, there had been 
twenty five projects funded up to August 
25, 1975. Fourteen of these were discussed 
in the first Interim Report to the Carnegie 
Corporation of New York. The first six 
included many self paced learning experi
ments, as well as a project to help students 
Examine public policy debates and scien
tific controversies in an orderly fashion. 
The other projects that were a result of the 
first hundred thousand dollar installment 
were:
7. Presentation of Self in Public (initial 
repayable loan of $1200) was a pro
posal sponsored by SUPA and the 
Drama Department under the 
supervision of Professor Robert 
Shellow. Students who anticipate 
the need for developing public 
communication skills as part of their 
academic training may elect to par
ticipate in a Masters of Science 
workshop. This workshop will 
provide a practical means of obtain
ing experience within the protective 
guidance of an educational institu
tion.
8. Continuation of the preceding was 
awarded S2600.
9. Development of Courses in Analysis, 
Synthesis, and Evaluation in CIT 
($17,000) was suggested by Asso
ciate Dean Donald Feucht. This 
undergraduate program attempts to 
incorporate the analysis, synthesis 
and evaluation courses into the core 
of the CIT curriculum, thus interre
lating the problems of engineering 
with mathematics, computer science, 
and physics. In order to monitor the 
new courses, an ASE Coordinating 
Committee will be formed, and 
chaired by the Associate Dean of 
CIT.
10.The Proposal for Using the Person
alization System of Instruction for 
Mathematics and Operations Re
search in GSIA ($7,127) was deve
loped by Professors Gerald Thomp
son and Scott Richard. This method 
will lead each student through stan
dardized material in a particular 
course at his own personal rate.
11 .Self-Pace Program ($20,850) was 
proposed by Professor Albert Blank 
of Mathematics, Laurence Boucher 
of Chemistry, and Hugh Young of 
Physics. The goals include an in
crease in the number of undergra
duate student tutors and of graduate 
student assistants, supplementary 
material with self-operated demon
strations and visual aids, and the 
computerizing of the record keeping 
and logging of each students pro
gress.
12.Improve Productivity in Undergrad
uate Teaching at CMU. ($18,505) 
Professor Harry Beyer of the history 
and philosophy department would 
present an auto-tutorial course ap
proach which would maximize the 
universitys teaching facilities such as 
language labs and the libraries.
13.A Modest Proposal for Desegregating 
Liberal Studies ($10,100) was pro
posed by Professors Greenfield and 
Knapp of the English Department. 
Their concern is with the need of 
todays undergraduate student to 
break away from the stifling effects 
of an exclusive, specialized academic 
course system. Through increased
student involvement and community 
participation in each course and the 
lack of pressure from the grades, the 
emphasis will be geared toward more 
serious research and personal involve
ment, all of which will allow a great
er interrelation between the various 
departments of the liberal arts 
courses. The total granted up to 
May 1974 was $129,081.
The second report (January 24, 1975) 
included 6 new approved proposals.
14.Trial use of the PLATO System in 
Undergraduate Instruction ($66,789) 
over a two year period) was present, ed by Professors Levine and Schum
acher of the Physics Dept. The 
computer would not merely supply
$107,869.
The latest report was made in August 
1975 and includes six new proposals that 
were approved by the three member com
mittee for the Carnegie Corporation grant.
20.Extension of Self-Paced Learning in 
GSIA -- Phase 3 ($10,000). Dean Ar
nold Weber (GSIA) continues his 
program because of favorable res
ponse from students and because 
of the many advantages of the SPL 
program itself.
21.Issue Analysis and The Quality of 
Education -- Phase 2 ($6,625). Prof. 
Wojick of the Philosophy Dept, got 
continued support for broader uti
lization of Issue Analysis within a 
formal curriculum and teaching sysSelf paced study is one of the major innovations 
Grant.
the answers in the laboratory, but 
would tutor, drill and supervise the 
students work, and provide immed
iate notice of error. The classroom 
lecture and problem-solving processes 
therefore, would be supplemented 
by this PLATO computer hook-up.
15.Animated Films for Teaching the 
Thermodynamics of Phase Diagrams - 
($9,000) was submitted by Prof. 
Lupis of the Metallurgy Dept. The 
fund would help him complete 2 
films which would overcome the 
difficulty found in interpreting twodimensional diagrams in textbooks 
or on the blackboard.
16.A Modular Approach to Language 
and Area Studies ($7,000) Through 
a self-study language program supple
mented by classroom instruction, 
Professor Silenieks (Dept, of Modern 
Language and Literature) would de
velop a series of programmed mo
dules which would permit the stu
dent to individualize his learning 
process.
17.Development of a Writing Clinic in 
CIT. $14,580 was awarded to Dean 
Toor for the expansion of available 
materials to all the engineering stu
dents, the preparation of more ex
amples of writing techniques, and 
the acquisition of more instructional 
materials.
The next two projects (18 & 19) which 
focus on a tutorial counseling system 
under the supervision of student advi
sors, were suggested by CMU students.
18.Student Advisors for H &SS Fresh
men ($5,000) was submitted by Ms. 
Louise Kadish.
19.A Tutorial Program ($5,500) was 
proposed by Steve Schillo.
Total granted during this period was
made with funds from the Carnegie
Photo by Mark Segal
tern.
22.Increase Teaching Productivity by 
100% While Improving the Quality of 
Education ($6,667). Prof. Moyer of 
the Psychology Dept, would deve
lop a lecture course to eliminate the 
passive listener in his General Psycho
logy course for spring, 1976. The 
use of lecture tapes and cassettes, 
self-grading exams, and a technician 
would eliminate, at a minimum, half 
of the time-consuming teaching de
tails which limit the instructors free
dom for innovative course develop
ment.
23.Development of a Problem-Oriented, Performance-Based Self-Paced 
Course in Secondary Education 
($4,500). The newly planned SPL 
courses would replace the present 
secondary education teacher training 
program at CMU. Prof. Sandberg 
would experiment with a required 
course for high school teacher train
ing entitled Culture in the School. 
24.1nnovations in Teaching of Human
ized Science ($13,893). Professor 
DeBenedetti (Physics Dept.) would 
prepare Science in Our Culture, a 
two semester course to interrelate 
two cultures by humanizing the 
sciences and rationalizing the human
ities.
25 .Automatic Question Generation in 
Chemical Thermodynamics. ($1,650) 
Dr. Herbert Simon would use funds 
to continue his work on the cons
truction of a question-generating 
computer system for a course which 
will generate student problems and 
examination items.
Vice President John G. Johnson of 
University Development is currently in the 
process of preparing the next Interim 
Report which will be sent to the Carnegie 
Corporation of New York around Febru
ary.
This will be the last fiscal year of the 
3-year grant by the Carnegie Corporation 
of New York. CMU has received $134,000 
in 1973-74, $83,000 in 1974-75 and 
$41,500 on October 1, 1975. This univer
sity will receive its final payment from 
the corporation ($41,500) on April 1, 
1976. In June of 1975, it had already 
placed its share of $50,000 into the fund. 
This whole sum has been appropriated to 
Information Systems. The Grant Commit
tee is planning to place another $50,000 
into the general fund later this year.
During the fall semester, 3 new projects 
were approved and funds have been appro
priated for each.
(1) Communication Skills Clinic.
This was proposed by English Prof. 
Jones. This project has already received 
$9.000 from the Comprehensive Em
ployment and Training Act of 1974, 
and $7,000 from C-Map. Along with 
the $3,400 from the Carnegie Grant, it 
would function with the sole purpose of 
helping students improve their ability 
to write. This clinic would be staffed 
by full-time professionals assisted as
needed, by qualified part-time person
nel. Administered mainly by the Eng. 
Dept., the clinic started operation in 
Sept. 1975 and should conclude its 
services in May 1976. Prof. Jones says, 
however, We shall be applying to 
private and/or corporate foundations 
for funds to continue to operate the 
communication Skills Clinic beyond 
May 1976.
(2) Implementation of a Student
Accessible Laboratory. ($7,500)
This project is the result of 
a proposal submitted by a student,
William N. Borkan (Dept, of Electrical 
Engineering). A.G. Jordan, Head of EE 
Dept., states that there are numerous 
reasons for implementing the labora
tory: (1) many students wish to 
supplement their courses with handson experience, beyond what they obtain 
through regular courses, (2) some want 
to see how much they can learn by 
systematically attempting to repair
their own devices, (3) others feel there 
is a need for a facility, which is accessi
ble at all times, where they can perform 
lab experiments on their own without 
going through departmental approvals; 
and (4) many more just wish they had a 
place where they could exchange ideas 
and gain experience in the implementa
tion of their own designs. The facility 
we propose has a full complement of 
test equipment along with enough 
design aids to enable students to bread
board and test their own ideas.
(3) Method-Based Philosophy.
($4,000) It was proposed by Thomas 
Schwartz, Associate Prof., History and 
Philosophy. Our project is to identify 
and explain the basic tools and tech
niques of philosophy and to produce 
printed materials designed to teach 
philosophic method. There would be 
six parts to the project: (1) identifica
tion, definition and publication of fun
damental tools and techniques of 
philosophic reasoning, (2) preparation 
and dissemination of packets of printed 
teaching materials on philosophic 
method, (3) preparation of a critical 
survey of current philosophy text
books, (4) redesign of the course Prob
lems and Methods of Philosophy as 
a methodologically oriented introduc
tion to philosophy. (5) a national 
conference on the teaching of philoso
phy, and (6) publication of material 
gained from the project in the form of a 
textbook.
continued on page eleven

---------------------------------------------------

$102383
' i%v\ vu\\
.(I lum inwHun |192(6895 I
f.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8THE TARTAN - February 17,1976
SENATE BILL ONE
by David Roussos
As Americans we enjoy a personal freedom not found 
anywhere else in the world. It is the Bill of Rights, the 
first ten amendments to the Constitution, that is the 
foundation of this freedom. To tamper with these amendments is to tamper with the rights of all Americans 
and, unfortuneatly, such an act is not beyond reality. 
There is now, before the full Senate Judiciary Commit
tee, a proposed revision of the criminal code (Senate Bill 
1 - Criminal Justice Reform Act of 1975) which is be
lieved to be a threat to the freedoms that were fought 
for 200 years ago.
Senate Bill 1 is what has resulted from ten years of 
reviewing and reforming the outdated U.S. criminal 
code. It started in 1966 when President Johnson ap
pointed former California governor Edmund Brown to 
head a commision of non-partisan lawyers, judges, and 
government people to review the criminal code. Five 
years later a final report was submitted to President 
Nixon, who felt the bill contained too much reform. 
Nixon then had Attorney General John Mitchell, and 
later, Richard Kleindienst redraft a major part of the bill 
and in 1974 it became SI.
Under SI:
*48 hour emergency wiretaps would be allowed 
without court approval.
*The Miranda Rule, which requires the arresting officier to notify the suspect of his rights, would be drop
ped.
*The Federal government would set the penalty for 
the slightest possession of marijuana at 30 days arid/or 
$10,000 for the second offense. (At present crimes in
volving marijuana are handled by the state, Pennsylvan
ias penalties being much more lenient than those pro
posed).
*National defense could be used to keep govern
ment secrets of any sort private; including any tapes or 
transcripts of an embarassing nature.
*Anyone who delivers national defense informa
tion or who receives it can receive up to 7 years and/or 
a $100,000 fine. This would keep incidents like the pub
lishing of the Pentagon Papers from occurring.
?Practically every type of peace, civil rights or other 
protest action including striking would be endangered. 
This is due to the vague definition of riot and the section 
which makes it a felony to obstruct a governmental 
function. Protesting in the Presidents parking space 
could send you to prison.
?Numerous other events, an estimated 30 in all, 
would result in the loss of civil liberties.
These repressive features, however, make up only 
5% of the bill, a strong point made by Thomas Kerr, 
Head of AMS here at CMU, in a lecture on Thursday, 
Feb. 5 and in an interview on Monday, Feb. 9. It is
the other 95%,  says Kerr, that the code is badly in 
need of. The federal criminal code needs re?jsipn.
Kerr also-mentioned the affects of vagueness, some
thing SI has been critized as having, saying the laws 
must not be vague since thats almost as bad as having 
no law.
Kerr noted, in conjunction with the need of criminal 
code revision that before the House of Representa
tives there is a new bill, H.R. 10850. Introduced by 
three Brown committeemen, H.R. 10850 has the neces
sary revisions to the criminal code but not the 5% that 
is controversial. It is this bill that Kerr feels is the 
alternate plan, since amending the allegedly unamendable SI would be an extremely difficault task.
Any real action on SI most likely will not take place
until after the November elections due to the conten
tiousness of this serious issue. This furor can be seen by 
Birch Bayhs withdrawing from sponsorship and the 
seriousness of various newspaper editorials and national 
organizations, most of whom oppose SI.
In this election year, it becomes important to view SI 
for the threats it holds since many parts of it can be
come tools for government abuse of the peoples rights. 
To quote the Atlanta Journal: Some are willing to sell 
this birhtright for a police state. A bill now before the 
U.S. Senate is a sign that that kind of a disease did not 
disappear with the departure of Richard Nixon from the 
White House.
Professor Tom Kerr
CCCI\S PRODUCTIONS
IN COOPERATION WITH^Stellai" c^tttactioqs
PRESENTS THE ( xunclot^'lVodiieHons TOURING COMPANY
SATURDAY
FEBRUARY 21,8:30p.
KAUFMANN AUDITORIUM
1g76Dc Wb6;D B9ggT;i1 BbTib. 
ko- f CtsltMltsH cEtf 
x9rmsraH7reSPdd MSPL DtlaU B(r'ts?
rHEraet nlemtnd O-f-q
dnuHtand O4fqq hln( lfHf
AVAILABLE At college ticket outlets, Flo's RecordsOakland,
Selected National Record Marts 
GROUP RATES AVAILABLE FOR INFORMATION CALL 391 6900
wm
Pitt Programming Presents
n(t PSl8lars
Quicksilver Messenger 
Service
hln(
Barefoot Jerry
uaR Ftpf vv wrElH :rhStaet Drss 
(Phd rn AGkq N oqGkq Ovfqq hln( BPsst8t ;w
Tickets Available at Pitt Student Union Box 
Office and at door.

---------------------------------------------------

Cltrs
ofrs
Cf'8frn
by Jeffrey Gerstein
The Quinlan case poses questions of primary impor
tance to both our society and our laws. Does the state, 
the doctors, the parents, or anyone for that matter have 
the right to decide that someone should be allowed to 
die, even accepting the utter hopelessness of that per
sons condition?
The state maintains that under the proper circum 
stances they have the authority, indeed the responsibil
ity to destroy human life in cases involving capital pun
ishment. But in Karen Quinlans case, the state claims 
that it has no right whatsoever to sanction the practice 
of euthanasia, while I agree that it is vital for the contin
ued well-being of our society to keep the states ability 
to kill its citizens at an absolute minimum, perhaps the 
extraordinary circumstances surrounding Karens demise 
warrant yet another exception. But, of course, it would 
not be politically expedient for a politician to commit 
himself affirmatively on this issue, because at the same 
time he also commits political suicide. So, wisely, it 
would seem, the state abdicates responsibility in favor 
of the medical profession.
The doctors also state that they have no right to prac
tice euthanasia. Their job is to sustain life as long as 
there is life to sustain. And they have substantiated be
yond a reasonable doubt that Karen is alive, She res
ponds to certain stimuli, and tests show that her brains 
activity, although minimal, never the less still exists-- 
characteristics that dead people do not posess. Another 
thing the doctors know for certain, however, is after her 
night of excessive indulgence in barbituates and booze, 
should they remove the machines that keep Karen alive, 
and should she not expire like a suffocated flame (which 
would truly be a miracle), then Karen would be able to 
lead the life of a perfectly healthy vegetable. But vege
table or not, the doctors will not risk compromising 
their professional ethics, or losing all the money they 
can make by propagating the last flickers of her life.
The parents claim it is Karens right to die a dignified 
death-that life as it presently stands for their daughter is 
degrading, not to mention a tremendous financial and 
emotional burden to themselves--and have consequently 
assumed the authority to exercise Karens right to die 
since she, herself, cannot.
It would seem the Quinlans do have a point. There is 
a life giving process within us all that distinguishes a 
human being from a mass of proteins and protoplasm. 
It is an integral part of ourselves--a natural process-and 
to kill a human being who possesses this process is mur
der, But Karen has lost this human trait and her life has 
become as artificial as plastic flowers. A machine perpe
tuates her existence. Consequently Karen has become 
only an extension of that machine, and in this condition
can no longer be considered a human being in the ordin*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
Tk needs short stories and ^
* feature articles. )+
Any interested, drop ? 
off a note in the 
 TARTAN office. *
TRAPEZE
ary, accepted sense. Unfortunate as it is, Karen has lost 
the ability to maintain her life processes, and because of 
this, she has lost her status and rights accorded to a 
normal person.
Alive, the best she can hope for is confinement to a 
wheelchair, but in all likelihood she will be bedridden 
for the remainder of her existence. Also, she will be po
werless to do anything for herself requiring physical 
control: dressing, walking, talking, eating or passing 
waste--functions that four year olds easily perform (Ka
ren is twenty-one). Whether or not she could hear, feel, 
see, smell, taste, or think are questions which we can 
only speculate about, since Karen will never be able to 
tell us. Even at this relatively advanced point of medical 
capability, the prospects for full, or even partial recovery 
from a coma the duration of Karens surpass the realm 
of possibility.
For the Quinlans, the only way to return Karen to 
humanity is to bestow on her the only human right she 
has left: the right to die like a human. But still, this 
does not, in and of itself, give the Quinlans the right or 
the authority to turn off the respirators. The Courts will 
have to decide that. Ultimately they will not be able to 
pass the responsiblity somewhere else, because we are 
concerned here with questions of laws and legalities. Un
til then, the Quinlans will continue |o drain themselves 
financially and emotionally, both in the perhaps futile 
pursuit of legal decision to allow Karen to die, and in 
the medical processes which keep her alive.
THE TARTAN-February 17, 1976-Page 9
CALIFORNIA
DREAMING
* the deeds of Patty Hearst, Lynette Fromme and Sara 
Moore that led to their present notoriety all occurred in 
California
* Nixon, Haldeman and most of the other Watergate 
conspirators are from California
* in A Nation of Strangers, Vance Packard describes 
the California Syndrome , in which Packard derives 
the lack of social cphesiveness in California from the 
fact that the average 'Californian changes his place f 
residency once every four years
FECH'S WINTER 
CARNIVAL QUEEN

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-THE TARTAN-February 17, 1976TRAPEZE
Images And 
Perceptions
by Kris Mamula
Writing in Commentary (Sept. 1975), Nathan Glazer 
criticizes the teachings of Hannah Arendt because of 
what he describes as their increasing obscurity. Glazer 
cites Home to Roost: A Bicentennial Address (New 
York Review of Bodks, June 26, 1975) by Arendt as 
her most recent example of obscurity. The fundamental 
difference between the views is not, as Glazer implies, 
a political one, but rather one of perceptions. In her past 
works, particularly Origins of Totalitarianism, Arendt 
attempts to call attention to the forces - political and 
social, that affect the individuals behavior and percep
tions. The changing role of the individual and of the 
citizen seems to permeate her work; in chapter 13 of 
Origins one is presented with the modifications in the 
individuals thought process that preceed the rise of 
new governments. In her Bicentennial Address Arendt 
emphasizes the importance of images in the development 
of an individuals perceptions: the accuracy of an 
individuals perceptions are largely reflective of the 
accuracy and type of images used to construct those 
perceptions. Glazer seems to fall victim to the very 
illusions and distortions of reality that Arendt warns 
against.
Throughout his criticism, Glazer repeatedly quotes 
Arendts usage of the terms image and image-mak
ers. It seems obvious within the contextual quotation 
of these terms that Glazer is unable to come to grips 
with their meaning. Arendt uses the terms image and 
image-makers in reference to the image that has been 
generated by the American government. Specifically this 
image is the one of America being the mightiest power 
on earth. In the development of these images, Arendt 
notes that plausibility must be emphasized over accur
acy; popular acceptance of the image has precedence 
over truthfulness or accuracy. The formation of these 
images is carried out by government policymakers who 
seek popular support of their policies not only by the 
American people but the world as well. In establishing
these images of America, Arendt notes that government 
policymakers have adopted Madison Avenue techniques, 
that is, the sort of sales pressuring and media saturation 
employed by Madison Avenue to establish the desirabil
ity of various commodities. In the name of governmental 
public relations Arendt notes, the American people 
were deceived into thinking that the Vietnam War was 
simply a rout of evil forces from an underdeveloped 
country. The War also attempted to demonstrate that 
the United States was the mightiest power on earth;the 
burden of superiority seems to demand constant demon
strations of might. For most, the mightiest power on 
earth image of America was shattered by the Tet Of
fensive in 1968.
This practice of image-making however, is not unique 
either to the United States or to this era. Elite groups of 
rulers and governmental policymakers in countries 
throughout the world have often found it advantageous 
to operate irregardless of public opinion. Complicated 
international affairs are often made to appear simplistic 
by policy makers in order to increase popular appeal of 
various policies. Hans Morganthau (whose ideas had 
tremendous impact on Henry Kissingers concept of for
eign policy) states that the popular mind, unaware of 
the fine distinctions of the statesmans thinking, reasons 
more often than not in the simple moralistic and legalis
tic terms of absolute good and absolute evil. And it is 
for this reason that the successful conduct of foreign 
policy must at all times be diametrically opposed to the
kind of considerations by which the masses and their re
presentatives are likely to be moved. Morganthau may 
have something in common with Adolf Hitler who in 
this respect notes in Mein Kampf, the psyche of the 
great masses is not receptive to anything that is half
hearted [or] weak.
Glazer cites the realities of Communism as the 
guiding impetus of American foreign policy particularly 
during the Vietnam War years. The aim of American pol
icy, Glazer notes, was the holding of the line that divides 
Communist from non-Communist states. He says that 
the specific purpose to the Vietnam War was the con
tainment of Communist power. To sum up five admin
istrations intent in Vietnam as the containment of 
Communist power is a perception of the type that the 
popular mind, unaware of fine distinctions unquestioningly accepts.
Mass media has provided image-makers both 
those seeking to establish desirability of a particular 
product and those seeking to a establish a certain percep
tion of America, with a particularly effective means. 
Because perceptions, that is, the .very understanding an 
individual has of an event or action often is based on 
images provided by the media, it has become increasing
ly important to identify and evaluate the premises these 
images are founded upon. In her Bicentennial Address 
then, Hannah Arendt has explored yet another aspect of | 
the individual that is subject to manipulation: The 
individuals images and perceptions.
LAYER CUTS 
WEDGE CUTS CHINA DOLL CUTS PAGETS 
VOLUMETRIC HAIRCUTTING 
VOLUMETRIC PPRM
Corsos Hair People
Fpr the latest in men's and women's hair styles 
We sell RK
682-9480121 Oakland Avenue
l/Ub/Viens 
CoWecWvQ
Important Reorganizational 
Meeting of the Women's Collective, 
Today: Tuesday Feb. 17
jstrdt d(Ph u'E yPu rSt attHtHf
6PLta2d BPsstenlEt 9MMletR
.PPL -0 raH .PPL oo KGkq jg
6750, 671,$9 9,4434.-3W,S9 U5,V31S,$Y C35$31
AN ISRAELI DANCING 
EVENING
AND ISRAELI FOOD
rnuSHry FtpSurSy vo 0 'fLf 
;T iDb D;::b: :9Tb
Dancing: Teaching8-9 p.m.
Requests--9 p.m. 
315 S. BELLEFIELD AVENUE (ACROSS FROM HEINZ CHAPEL)
621-8875
T;"b.;i1 9.ci9.1 9F 
iDb D9:1 j;.;i jc.;D ".nM
Bg Bcgj
SATURDAY MASS..............................................7*0 PM. - Toch Houm
SUNOAYMASS............................10:30 A.M.  Scionco Hall (Rm 7500)
DAILY MASS (Mon.-f H.|....................................JtOO PM Toch Houm
Fothtra John Walsh or Dob tngllsh 
Toch ^PFe 9129 Morgorof Morrlion 421-2911

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-February 17, 1976-Page 11
Grant
continued from page 6
It should benefit students in various 
ways, including (1) enhancing students 
reasoning skills, (2) improving students 
comprehension of most philosophic 
subjects by increasing their grasp of the 
methods already implicitly presupposed 
in most philosophy courses, (3) making 
more efficient use of class time, etc.
The project has a projected two year 
budget of $81,195 ($46,470 for 1975- 
76 and $34,725 for 1976-77).
Mr. John G. Johnson, Vice President for 
Development, discussed the present and 
the future of the Carnegie grant. He said 
that when this 3-year grant is exhausted, 
CMU has no intention of going back to the 
Corporation and asking for more money. 
When the university had originally contact
ed the Corporation, CMU didnt have 
enough resources of its own to start ex
periments. Mr. Johnson feels that private 
universities (such as CMU) have a tendency 
not to change much unless there is in
ducement to do so. CMU therefore, went 
to the Corporation for seed money to 
get things started. He believes that the 
Corporation has no desire to keep on put
ting money into projects it has previously 
funded; these must seek funds from their 
own departments, the university or other 
sources.
The spirit of the grant has been the 
search of new and innovative ways of 
transferring knowledge from one genera
tion to another. The 3-member board 
has been meeting approximately every 2 
months to approve new projects and to re
ject those that are not innovative enough 
or that are not in congruence with the 
grants spirit. During this fiscal year, 14 of 
the 28 projects approved thus far have 
been appropriated funds, even though 
many of the other half still have funds left 
over from the previous 2 years with which 
jto work.
Mr. Johnson said that CMU faces a
future with a very austere budget setting 
and decrease (continous) in the number 
of college age students. This will serious
ly affect the amount of money that CMU 
can spend to carry on the program started 
by the Carnegie Grant. After the last pay
ment in April, 1976, CMU will not receive 
any money from that source and will spend 
at most $100,000 a year in inaugerating 
new schemes which seem promising in re
lation to ways of teaching and learning. 
After a project is approved and funded, it 
must prove itself to be good enough that 
the individual department or college
Career Notes
Richard Barnhart: "We will have to foot the
bill..."
or some other source will undertake the 
necessary funding. The Board will not 
continue to fund a project unless the spon
sors come back and provide sufficient evi
dence for such a need. Hie yearly 
$100,000 will be used, like the Carnegie 
Grant funds as seed money. The main 
purpose is to experiment with new, pro
ductive ideas and to lower costs at the 
same time (if possible). The final Interim 
Report will be made to the Carnegie Cor
poration of New York in February and af
ter that CMU is on its own with the 28 
project thus far initiated.
Mr. Barnhart Assistant to the President) 
said plainly, As of June 30, 1976, we will 
have to foot the bill.
Most students, at this time of year, 
start thinking about the prospect of a good 
job for next summer. Some only think of 
a summer job for its money making poten
tial. As important as that is, the summer 
job is more important to you in helping 
you market your background for that per
manent position after you receive your de
gree. A summer job that is related to what 
you will do after graduation makes you 
more valuable, and undoubtedly worth 
more money. It can also show the employ
ers that you have direction. In additon, 
a good summer job can help you narrow 
your functional career choices and make 
the interviewing process more efficient 
and productive. All in all, its a plus to add 
meaningful summer experience to your 
background. But finding a summer job, 
especially one that can help sell you later, 
is not an easy task. A successful search 
takes hard work, creativity, perseverance 
and some good luck. I have listed below 
some of the many approaches that may 
help you find a summer job which will be 
beneficial to your career:
1. On Campus Interviewing: A limited 
number of campus interviewing opportun
ities are available, usually in February or 
March. Most of these opportunities are for 
engineers finishing their junior year and 1st 
year IAs. Since these opportunities are lim
ited, it is important that students become 
familiar with the interview sign up proce
dure and watch for the notices indicating 
possible interviews.
2. Job Listings are received by the Of
fice of Career Services and Placement 
(again in limited numbers) and these are re
ferred to appropriate students based on 
interests and qualifications. We need to 
know therefore, how to reach you, where 
you want to work, what you want to do, 
and what your academic qualifications are. 
A brief form is available for you to com
plete so we can try to help you.
3. Personal letter writing campaign
Most students will feel the need to write 
to organizations appropriate for their back
ground. While this is a frustrating process 
with limited success an inherent part, it is 
another means of approaching potential 
employers for summer employment. An 
individually typed cover letter and a good 
resume of your background is recommend
ed. We have available a handout on the re
sume as a marketing tool and how to pro
duce it.
4.Personal contacts are usually effective 
means of obtaining summer employment. 
Many of the individuals who obtain sum
mer jobs do so by a personal lead or be
cause of a recommendation by someone 
they know. Make a list of individuals who 
might be able to help you and cultivate 
some of these contacts.
5. Visits to potential employers. A per
sonal visit to a plant or laboratory where 
you may be interested in working for the 
summer can be an effective approach. The 
advantages here are that you are showing 
initiative and a strong desire to work for 
that organization. Also you have a chance 
that someone may be willing to talk to 
you thereby evaluating you and making 
you a more likely candidate should any 
positions develop. This, like the other 
approaches, can be extremely frustrating 
and unproductive but youre only looking 
for that one njatch and you need a consid
erable volume of activity to increase the 
possibility of finding a good summer em
ployment position.
Since summer employment is so impor
tant to the development of a career, the 
Office of Career Services and Placement 
suggests that careful planning and aggres
sive action be implemented to help assure 
good results. Additional help on summer 
employment problems is availabte from the 
staff of the Office of Career Services and 
Placement.
Robert H. Nelson
Assistant Director 
Career Services & Placement
Housing Rates Lower Than First Proposal
the housing budget), and higher that av
erage maintenance all increase the cost of 
running the dormitory system. Mr. Zalewski admitted that there is off campus 
housing available for less than the price of 
on campus housing. Howeever, he be
lieves that this housing is way below the 
safety and occupancy standards that the 
administration would allow for University 
housing.
Bill Dillon brought up the issue of
severity of change in rate structures 
in relation to the co-ops. (Because co-op 
members are generally more permanent 
residents than students in other dorms, 
this problem is more severe for them.) 
Peter Fletcher, a representative from 
the co-ops pointed out that in a period of 
three years, the price of living in a co-op 
would have risen from $520 to $775 if 
the administrations proposal had been 
accepted. When asked why a vearNew H&SS PhD program to Start Next Yearby Laurie Trask
Late last week, President Cyert formally 
announced the creation of the Applied His
tory/Applied Social Statistics Progam. This 
new, interdisciplinary doctorate program 
had been planned and improved by a facul
ty committee, headed by Dr. Peter Stearns.
Stearns has two main concerns about 
getting the program off to a good start 
next semester. Were recruiting six to ten 
students for next year, with varied back
grounds...not just historians. Steams 
would like to see any student with a good 
background in history, but who may have 
majors in Economics, English, Psychology, 
or even engineering. The other concern lies 
with procuring money for the specific 
purpose of graduate scholarships. He ad
mits, We have not yet begun to look but 
we plan to talk to foundations and govern
ment agencies for support concentrating 
on graduate fellowships.
Currently, the faculty steering commit
tee, consisting of Chairman Stearns, George 
Duncan of Statistics, Judith Lave and Eu
gene Levy of History, is at work setting up 
six to eight interdisciplinary courses for 
the Applied History Ph.D. Dr. John Crecine, new dean of H&SS says, Next year 
will be a pilot year of the program ...Full 
implementation will take place in the 
77-78 academic year.
Stearns is very pleased by the new 
program. Clearly, H&SSs major new ef
fort under the dean in terms of program 
that can integrate various aspects of the 
new thrust of the college...Finally, its 
true to say that theres no program in the 
country like it...but there will be imita
tions...
Any senior who is interested in the 
Applied History/Applied Social Statistics 
Program should contact Dr. Stearns as soon 
as possible. His campus extension is 303.
in the co-op is not the price of a stan
dard double (the average room) minus 
20%, because no custodial service is re
ceived by the co-op, Mr. Zalewski ex
plained in a later interview that the cost 
of a co-op is really higher that this theor
etical amount because the heating and 
other utilities are more per room than 
other dorms.
Mr. Van Horn noted that the new rates 
reflect a concern for student board mem
bers comments concerning a consistent 
and fair rate structure, rather that an 
effort to reduce total income.
In a change to the 'Housing Policy 
and Procedure: 1976-1977 document, 
apartment residents will be allowed to re
tain their rooms under the same condi
tions as all other dorm residents. Mudge 
undergrads will have the same choice with 
the exception that if a current graduate 
chooses a room that an undergrad wants 
to keep, the grad student gets his choice*
while the undergrad may choose another 
Mudge room.
The room rvaluation has increased the 
occupancy of every room in Boss and 
McGill Halls by one. While the number of 
square feet per occupant in these rooms is 
about the same as that of other rooms in 
the same classification, these rooms are 
partitioned. As one resident commented, 
Theres no way we could get another 
person in. Theres not enough room in 
the closet for two peoples clothes. Even 
though he is head of the Campus Services 
Board, Mr. Zalewski declined to comment 
on the possible overcrowding. He said, 
Housing questions should go to Dean 
Williams. Dean Williams answered,SDC 
could appeal the occupancy level of all 
the dorms at once, rather than having 
individual residents appeal. At the end of 
his interview, Williams said, I dont 
know why youre asking me all this. Steve 
Zalewski is Head of the Committee.
CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY 
RESIDENCE RATE STRUCTURE 
1976-1977
QUAD
TRIPLE
DOUBLE
SINGLE
Apartments
Houses
Co-Ops
BUDGET
$600
700
775
900
EFFICIENCY
$1100
900
725
STANDARD
$675
750
850
975
ONE BEDROOM 
$1200
PR ME 
$775 
825 
900 
1050 
TWO BEDROOM 
$1200

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12THE TARTANFebruary 17, 1976
NEWBURY: OVERLOOKED EXCELLENCE
Every now and then an artist or group 
comes along that receives little recognition 
for their tremendous efforts. Usually the 
unrecognized performer carves out new 
musical roads which other artists adapt 
in to their own styles. Singer Mickey New
bury is that sort of artist.
Newbury has been singing for the past 
fifteen years while receiving no credit. The 
first wave that Mickey Newbury made 
was as a song writer. He penned the hit 
single I Just Dropped In To See What 
Condition My Condition Was In. Kenny 
Rodger and First Edition recorded the song 
and they scored a huge success with it. Of
ten a songwriter gains recognition after 
writing a popular single but this was not 
the case with Newbury. There are a multi
tude of different reasons why Newbury has 
failed to be acknowledged but the most 
logical deduction is his sophisticated music. 
All of the records of Newbury that I own 
have a feeling that other country singers 
cannot match. Mickey finds a theme of 
some sort,for every album. His songs are 
sad and he provokes images from the first 
cut to the last. Unlike other country 
artists, Mickey Newbury repeats musical 
phrases throughout each album and some
times those musical phrases spill over onto 
following recordings.
Newbury came out of the suburbs of 
Houston. He traveled north to Nashville 
where he rubbed noses with people like 
Jerry Lee Lewis and other more success
ful country craftsmen. He developed a soft 
spoken approach and his songs are closer 
to acoustic love ballads than any of the 
various forms of country music, Newburys 
vocals are one of his strongest points. He 
sings in the lower ranges but he is capable 
of hitting tremedously high notes. New
burys guitar work is very jazzy and always 
bordering on a melancholy mood.
To the best of my knowledge, Mickey
Newburys first album on Electra Records 
was Looks Like Rain. It was a beautiful 
album concerned with people, (like Mickey 
Newbury) who were down on their luck. 
The most amazing aspect of the album was 
the fact that a tint of salvation ran through 
the nine songs of despair. Charlie McCoy 
and most of the musicians from Area Code 
615 provided the tight backup. Listening 
closely a rain storm sprinkled in the backfinest live recordings that Ive ever heard. 
All of the small yarns that Newbury told 
would delight any folk fan. One particular 
story that I remember dealt with an old 
beggar that Newbury used to wander down 
the streets of Nashville to see. The old 
man was blind and he used to play guitar in 
a way that almost made Newbury cry. 
Mickey said that he was out on the west 
coast playing a gig and when he returned to
glemty TthpuSyR r ePantL'srnlEt ePuanSy rSnldnf
ground as did a train whistle. These special 
effects have become the trademark of 
Newbury and they add a lovely touch to 
the mesmerizing lyrics.
Following his first recording, Newbury 
cut a series of albums which included I 
Came to Hear the Music, Heaven Help the 
Child, and Live at Montezuma Hall. The 
live album featured only Mickey and his 
guitar. It has to go down as one of the
Nashville, he picked up an old newspaper 
and found out that the old man had died. 
Mickey told the audience that he was not 
sure what good it would do but he wanted 
to sing a song that he had written. The 
touching song and the old man were 
known as Cortelia Clark.
After a polite article in Rolling Stone 
and a long string of live performances, 
Newbury surfaced with an album entitled
SCIENCE 
TECHNOLOGY 
HUMAN VALUES
Economics as if People Mattered
February 25 (a discussion of Small is Beautiful by -\ 
E. F. Schumacher) Hazel Henderson, Co-Directeur, Princeton 
Center for Alternative Futures
IE >LV
Lovers. Lovers captured the essence of 
Mickey Newbury. All of the songs dealt 
with the problems of living after a love 
affair had gone sour. The album was an 
entire concept and the music ran together 
as if it were a symphony. People labeled 
the Lovers album country but thats like 
calling the Beatles rock and roll. There 
were jazz guitar solos provided by the 
legendary Chet Atkins as well as vivacious 
string arrangements that sounded a wee bit 
like Tchaikovsky. Lovers could be called 
a journey. Newbury acted as the narrator 
who reached a climax and then found sal
vation. Its an exhausting performance 
that is as hopeful as it is haunting.
It is no accident that Newbury sounds 
like Roger Miller, Kris Kristofferson, Ran
dy Newman, Willie Nelson, and Hank Wil
liams. With the exception of the latter 
singer, all of the country p?p greats have 
borrowed and lent ideas that comprise the 
sound of Mickey Newbury. Willie Nelsons 
Phases and Stages album sounds quite sim
ilar to many of the Mickey Newbury re
cordings and I do not believe that it is en
tirely coincedental. Kris Kristofferson has 
praised Mickey Newbury on more than one 
occassion.
Before I smother everyone with Mickey 
Newburys quick wit and his clever musical 
interludes, Ill just add that fans and critics 
are missing one hell of a song writer. Mick
ey Newbury is long over due and his music 
no longer looms too sophisticated for ap
preciation. To steal one of Newburys lines, 
When will the piper be paid for his 
songs?
Back from the dead and feeling fit . . .
Quiff
PS. Thanks to Mark Evan for patience, 
apologies to Mickey Newbury for telling 
tales that are too tall for Texas and for 
everyone who gives apple-plexes????
? Y Y Y
0fr ^ i
 ? 41 ?
lOO >DOOxi n *2f ? nr
1 
sg
Machines and Values
March 10 (a discussion of Zen and the Art of Motorcycle 
Maintenance by R. N. Pirsig) Leon Harmon, Department of Bio-Medical Engineering, Case Western Reserve
Computing and Thinking
March 31 (a discussion of computer usage and its effect on peoples self image) 
Allen Newell, University Professor, Carnegie-Mellon University
m
\L
All forums are on Wednesday ever ings at 7:30 p.m. in the Wherrett Room, Skibo, Carnegie-Mellon University. 
Sponsored by Campus Program Planning Program on Science and Humanities Program on Society and Technology 
Free; Open to the Public.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANFebruary 17, 1976Page 13
1776: A BICENTENNIAL SENSATION
by Bob Jamison
The media will inundate us during the 
Bicentennial year with accounts of our 
past which may be categorized in one of 
two ways - factual or interesting. Those 
who would like to be enlightened and en
tertained at the same time should know 
about 1776. While 1776 has but a single, 
unadorned set and no songs that, out of 
context, are extraordinary, only a Bene
dict Arnold could say it is not worth see
ing. 1776 is one of the most absorbing, 
most authentic stories of the birth of our 
nation you can see.
The history books will clean it up. 
Ben Franklin says in the play, and he is 
right. 1776 shows what the history books 
dont: our forefathers were human, not 
demigods. They rarely agreed on any issue 
(arguing over matters such as compensation 
for a dead mule, the correct spelling of 
inalienable, and whether the eagle, the 
dove, or the turkey should become our 
national symbol). The onerous question 
was independence. The play centers around 
John Adams efforts to persuade Congress 
to vote for independence.
Adams, played by Jerry Comunale, Jr., 
is the fiery workhorse for independence. 
His commitment to the cause destroys his 
law practice, separates him from his be
loved wife Abigail, and makes him first 
in line to be hanged. He is pedantic, in
sensitive, egotistical, given to temper tan
trums, and, generally, obnoxious and dis
liked. He would win no popularity con
tests, but then Im not promoting John 
Adams, Im promoting independence. Mr. 
Comunale handles the vocal parts well, 
particularly in the dramatic Is Anybody 
There? and the comic Piddle, Twiddle, 
and Resolve and But, Mr. Adams He 
is a commanding figure on stage. His weak
ness is that he musters too little tenderness
in the scenes with Abigail.
Franklin is the Congressional philoso
pher and steadying influence on the im
pulsive and tactless Adams. Fred Thickey 
molds a consistent character from Frank
lins contradictory qualities. He is at once 
wise but impish, aged but spry, the oldest 
and youngest member of Congress. He is 
always lovable.
Thomas Jefferson (Chuck Aber) is a 
studious loner, a man of many accom
plishments - author, farmer, lawyer, architect, inventor, violinist, statesman. And 
lover,. This causes complications, as he is 
a newlywed and his wife is in Virginia. Mr. 
Aber is endowed with a remarkable physi
cal resemblance to Jefferson. His tenor 
voice is the casts best; it is regrettable that 
his part does not give him more opportun
ity to use it.
The two leading opponents of indepen
dence are Edward Rutledge (John Appel) 
and John Dickinson (Dann Howard).
Rutledge, the leader of the Southern colon
ies, insists upon removal of the anti-slavery 
clause from the Declaration. His song,
Molasses to Rum, is the most emotional 
and demanding of the play. Mr. Appel is 
talented vocally but he fails to wring out 
the dramatic potential from his lines. John 
Dickinson, head of the Pennsylvania dele
gation, is Adams nemesis throughout the 
play. Mr. Howard plays him in the cool, 
sophisticated, persuasive style of a lawyer 
par excellence, which he was. He speaks
his lines as if he wrote them.
Peter Stone must belong to the behind 
every great man . . . school of play
wrights, for Mrs. Jefferson (Terry Azzara) 
and Abigail Adams (Shirley Haviland), the
only two women in the musical, are truly 
exceptional women. Ms. Azzara is a rich 
alto, but she must dance while singing. She 
does the best that can be hoped for: a 50- 
50 compromise. Ms. Azzara is adequate for 
the part, but she would probably be better
suited to slower, more serious songs than 
He Plays the Violin. Mrs. Adams appears 
in several touching scenes with John, in 
which they animate their letters. John 
resorts to Abigail for comfort when there 
doesnt appear to be anybody else . . .
- in other words, often. Abigail is compas
sionate but, in her own way, every bit as 
stubborn as John. Ms. Haviland acts a bit 
too ingenuous for a woman who reads, 
writes, and thinks too much.
Richard Henry Lee (John Croyle) is 
the vain Virginian who brings the resolu
tion for independence and whose departure 
from Congress lands the unwilling Jeffer
son a seat on the Declaration Committee. 
The part is for a ham actor, one who does 
everything but scream Oink! Mr. Croyle 
does not show enough vitality; without 
that spark his scene is vapid.
Stephen Hopkins (Bud Mellott) is a 
cantankerous, rum-guzzling, Quaker from 
Rhode Island, whose earthy humor quickly 
disqualifies him from demigod status. But 
the audience has no objections; non-demigods are undeniably more interesting than 
their heavenly counterparts.
Finally, there is the courier (Jim Agnew), who throughout the play brings dispatcftes from General Washington to Con
gress. The Generals messages are invariably 
gloomy (The man would depress a hy
ena!) and are an imaginative device that 
gives the audience a more comprehensive 
picture of the'Revolution, a reminder that 
while Congress is debating, the Army is 
fighting.
At one point a frustrated John Adams 
sings words that are more poignant today 
than in 1776:
Is anybody there?!
Does anybody care?!
Does anybody see 
What I see?!
A scene from Camelot productions 1776.
FEBRUARY THJRSCWHBS FORUMS12:30 Wherrett Room Bring Lunch And A Friend
19
:r :r :r:r:rLa
* An Opera Workshop Presentation 
Rudolf Fellner and CMU Students, 
Dept, of Music
26
Back by Popular Demand
Plays, Playwrights, 
Play Writing
James Rosenberg 
and CMU Students, 
Dept, of Drama
Sponsored by CMU Campus Program Plannina

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14^HE.TARTANFebruary 17,1976
ROMANCE REDONEzzzzzzzzzzzz
by John M. Morris
The premise of Claude Lelouches new 
film, And Now My Love, is as old as 
sentimental romanticism itself. It is the 
story of a soul-searching rich girl and a 
tough poor boy who are fated to share a 
great love. The story follows their personal 
frustrations, and the obstacles to their 
romance until the fulfillingly happy 
ending. The film, however, transcends 
cliches, and the difference lies in the fact 
Lelouche knows how to tell an old story 
in a new way.
J J
No stranger to the genre of romantic 
film, Lelouche directed 1966s award win
ing A Man and a Woman. His ability to 
make a film which is both artistic and es
capist is reaffirmed. He has combined stun
ning photography, inspired acting, mean
ingful dialogue and a credible, if simple 
story which makes for pure entertainment 
with depth and resonance. Its a tale of 
lovers who do not meet until the last 
few minutes of the film, a unique ap
proach indeed. He traces all that comprises 
their personal makeups for three genera
tions, building subtle nuances of foresha
dowing until the viewers are on the edges 
of their seats, enthralled by the determin
ism of their inevitable union. This film has 
something for everyone  a variety of his
torical atmosphere, war, music, blood, 
sex, humor, family strife, crime, and the 
Karmic promise that if you wait enough 
lives, there is somebody out there exactly 
for you.
? ?
Martha Keller's performance in a triple 
role (daughter, mother, grandmother) is a 
tour de force. She creates characters that 
are engrossingly natural, down to earth and
sympathetic. Andre Dussolier, as the lover 
to be, complements her perfectly. The film 
is a series of personal incidents in their 
lives played off each other, until you rea
lize how much they really do have in 
common. On the day she cuts her wrists 
in an adolescent tantrum, he is almost 
killed in a car wreck escaping from prison. 
She feels encumbered by her wealth, her 
father who slaved his life away so she could 
have all the material advantages, leaving 
her to feel theres nothing more to get. 
He is trapped by his poverty and conman talents, feeling his only escape is 
crime. Later, he finds a rewarding career 
as a film director, just when she learns 
to understand herself and is writing a book. 
The audience knows when they are ready.
The films last sequence is the most 
climatic and romantic. Both are on their 
way to the Paris Airport to fly to New 
York. They both know something is going 
to happen, that they need a new outlook 
and they are ready to find amother person 
to share it with. As their cars drive along 
on the freeway next to each other, the 
suspense mounts. Finally, they meet on the 
plane, ending the movie, left to discover 
about one another what the audience al
ready knows.
The film is a glossy production, with a 
constant montage of contrasting locations 
and atmosphere. A joy to look at, it is 
even more rewarding to identify with per
sonally. This is one of the few examples 
of a realistic, yet upbeat love story to.hit 
the screen in many years. Its not overly 
sugary, yet it also lacks the plastic cynic
ism of a film like Shampoo. When will 
the American cinema begin producing intelli
gent. sensitive stories about real people 
again? This French film proves themes of 
love are still viable in todays movies.
,ts Class 1ing lime
Carnegie-Mellon University Cfess'-Rings
bruay u17aSMALL RING
t
PRINCESS 0*NN6R RINGNAVf TT GROOVED SHANKS
Class Ring Ordering 
Information
Day: Feb. 19 Thurs. 
Time: 10:00 - 4:00 
Place: BOOKSTORE 
Please bring advance 
deposit of $10.00
The International Poetry Forum will 
present an evening of awardees on Febru
ary 25 at 8:00 p.m. in Carnegie Lecture 
Hall. Gerald Costanzo, Mark Halperin and 
Ed Ochester, all winners of national poetry 
prizes, will share the stage in a reading of 
their poems. Both Mr. Costanzo and Mr. 
Ochester are winners of the Devins Award 
and Mr. Halperin is the 1975 winner of the 
International Poetry Forums United States 
Award, which is a cash prize of $2,000 
and publication of his manuscript, Back 
Roads, by the University of Pittsburgh 
Press. Mr. Costanzo, a -professor at Carnegie-Mellon University, is the author of In 
the Aviary. Mr. Ochesters book, Dancing 
on the Edge of Knives', was published by 
the University of Missouri Press.
Tickets are $3.00 and are available to 
senior citizens and students for $2.00.
(bass), to test the fidelity of their fiancees, 
Fiordiligi and Dorabella (sopranos). The 
officers, pretending to go off to war, dis
guise themselves as rich Albanians and at
tempt to woo each others sweetheart, 
The girls at first refuse them, but in the 
second act they give in and sign marriage 
contracts. At this monent the return of the 
officers is announced, whereupon the 
Albanians escape and reappear, undis
guised, with the marriage contracts as 
evidence of the womens faithlessness. 
Thus proving Cosi fan tutti -- all women 
are the same.
The opera will be conducted by Bernard 
Goldberg, principle flutist of the Pitts
burgh Sumphony. Miss Claudia Pinza, 
daughter of Metropolitan Operas Ezio 
Pinza, is the director and founder of the 
opera workshop.
.rHu :u'uR h(P hlss r''trS FtpSurSy vq raH vv rn DtlaU Drssf
Tickets may be purchased at Kaufmanns. 
the Pitt Student Union and the poetry 
Forum office in Carnegie Library, Oakland. 
For more information, call 621-9893.
Duquesne University Opera Workshop 
and Orchestra will present Cosi fan tutti 
by Mozart on Sunday and Monday even
ings February 29th and March 1st at 8 pm 
in Peter Mills Auditorium at Duquesne 
Universitys Rockwell Hall.
Cosi fan tutti is a comic opera in two 
acts. The plot, set in 18th-century Naples, 
starts with a wager between the bachelor 
Don Alfonso (baritone) and two young 
officers, Ferrando (tenor) and Guglielmo
Radu Lupu, winner of three of the 
worlds most prestigious piano competi
tions -r the Leeds, 1969; Georges Enesco, 
1967 and Van Cliburn Contest, 1966 - will 
make his Pittsburgh debut in two Heinz 
Hall concerts with the Pittsburgh Sym 
phony, Friday, February 20 at 8:30 pm 
and Sunday, February 22 at 3 pm.
Czech conductor, Zdenek Macal will be 
on the podium for the program which in
cludes the Beethoven Piano Concerto 
No. 5 in E-flat major, Opus 73 - Lupu as 
soloist - and Tschaikowskys Symphony 
No. 5 in E minor, Opus 64. This will be 
the second of two guest appearances this 
season by Mr. Macal.
Singers, musicians, dancers, technicians, magicians, banjo players, 
acrobats, pianists, puppeteers, novelty acts ... It takes ail kinds of talent 
to entertain Cedar Points 2,500,000 summer guests, and the search is on.
So, check the audition schedule, polish up your act and come show us your 
talent. Technicians, come tor an interview with Cedar Points Live Shows.
Open only to registered college students and graduating high school seniors.
AUDITION AND INTERVIEW SCHEDULE 
Pittsburgh, Pa.Frl., Feb. 27, 1976 Indianapolis, Ind.Tues., Mar. 2,1976
Williim Penn Hotel Stouffers Indianapolis Inn
Mellon Square 2820 North Meridan
Tech Interviews 4:00 Auditions 5:00 Tech Interviews 4:00 Auditions 5:00
Cincinnati, O.Sun., Feb. 29,1976
Stouffers Cincinnati Inn 
150 W. 5th Street
Tech Interviews 3:00 Auditions 4:00
Detroit, Mich.Thurs., Mar. 4,1976
SheratonSouthfield Hotel 
17017 West Nine Mile Road at I-696 
Tech Interviews 4:00 Auditions 5:00
Louisville, Ky.Mon., Mar. 1, 1976 Sandusky, O.Sat., Mar. 6,1976
Sheraton InnLouisville East Cedar Point
I-64 at Hurstbourne Lane Centennial Theatre
Tech Interviews 4:00 Auditions 5:00 Tech Interviews 10:00 Auditions 11:00
Live Entertainment, Cedar Point, Sandusky, Ohio 44870
AMUSeMeNT LaNDCEDAR POINTSANDUSKY OHIO

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-February 17, 1976-Page 15
GSIA LECTURE. David Wax, directoi On Wednesday, February 18 at 8:00 pm
of the Northeast Academic Science Infor- in Calvary Episcopal Church, Shady & Walmation Center (NAS1C), will discuss exist- nut, the Pittsburgh Oratorio Society and 
ing and new data bases and the future ol the Pittsburgh Wind Quintet will perform a 
electronic retrieval on Feb. 26 and 27. The concert of contemporary music, 
program will be presented in 316 GSIA The program includes Zoltn Kodalys
from 1 to 4 pm on both days and 9 am to Missas Brevis for chorus and organ with
noon on the 27th. Several large universities Donald Wilkins, conductor and Patricia 
including CMU, belong to NASIC. CMU Crosby, organist. The Pittsburgh Wind 
Librarians Marilyn Albright, Social Science; Quintet will perform works by Hindemith 
Ann DeKlerk, Engineering and Science; and Villa Lobos.
and Mary Jane Volk, Chemistry and Bio- This concert is the second joint program
logy, will speak on bibliographic access and for these two Pittsburgh musical groups, 
literature search by computer. The Pittsburgh Wind Quintet, all memA rare collection of lithographs and bers of the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchesother prints of 19th century Pittsburgh, tra, has become nationally prominent in 
entitled Pittsburgh-the Heritage will be its short life with concerts in major Ameriexhibited in the lower gallery of Heinz can cities and Japan, as well as in PittsHall, opening March 3 and remaining avail- burgh.
able for public viewing throughout the The Pittsburgh Oratorio Society is best
month. known for its performances, with orchesThe art display is conceived as a Bi- tra, of major religious works in Calvary 
centennial Tribute to Pittsburgh. Episcopal Church. Donald Wilkins is music
Owned by the Pittsburgh National director.
Bank, the rare collection gathers scenes of The concert is open to the public and 
Pittsburgh in the early and mid-19th a donation is requested, 
century, picturing the early industrial
growth; riots, fires and floods; such con- Cy Coleman, known foremost as the
vivial forms of recreation as sculling on composer of such hit Broadway musicals 
the rivers, and such efforts as the nations as Sweet Charity, Wildcat and Little 
first steamboats being launched on the Me, will star on the Pittsburgh Symphony 
Ohio. These prints were the forerunners of Pops Series in Heinz Hall on Saturday and 
latter-day photo journalism, with many Sunday, February 21 and 22, 8 pm, and 
being commissioned by magazines of the Monday, February 23 at 7:30 pm. In additime. tion to pop tunes featuring Mr. Coleman at
Pittsburgh artist George Nama, now the piano, Symphony Assistant Conductor 
teaching in New York, assembled the Thomas Michalak will lead the Orchestra 
colorful collection which was later pur- >n Ballet music from Gounods Faust, 
chased by the Pittsburgh National Bank, the March of the Boyards by Halvorsen, 
and he is mounting the vivid display in the Polovetzian Dances from Prince Igor 
Heinz Hall. by Borodin and Richard Rodgers Sound
The display recalls the energy, the per- * Music, 
sonality, the fibre of the people who built Although known first as a composer, 
a metropolis through working in the coal ^ Coleman is an outstanding entertainer
mines, glass foundries, coke ovens and blast *n ^*s own r*8ht. He began piano studies
furnaces and enduring such upheavals as very early when neighbors in the Bronx
the Railroad Riot of 1877, the burning tenement his family owned left a piano beof Union Depot, and the Homestead riot. hind in lieu of rent- At age 4 Cy was pickAll of these historical events are pictured in out tunes from the radio. Recognizing
the exhibit. bis early talent, Cys mother accepted the
Many of these prints appeared in Har- offer of a local teacher to give him two
pers Illustrated Weekly as well as in other free lessons for one with pay. From then
periodicals and histories during the last on ^ studied to be a concert artist and
century. made professional debuts at Town Hall and
The exhibit will be open to the public Steinway Hall at age 7. It was during the
from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m., Mondays, Wednes- war that CV became involved with popular 
days, and Fridays, and to Heinz Hall music and jazz. While still a student at
audiences attending concerts or shows Manhattans High School for Music and
through the month. Student groups are Art he be8an to PlaV nightclubs to pick up
invited to tour the exhibit by arranging extra money, composing constantly. In
times first with the Heinz Hall management 1948 he became a well known society
offices, (412) 281-8185. pianist at New Yorks Sherry-Netherlands
Bayhs use of the song!
Colemans work in the movies, televis
ion and on records has won him six Gram
my nominations, an Oscar nomination, 
four Tony nominations and two Emmys. 
He is the recipient of the LaGuardia Mem
orial Award for Outstanding Achievement 
in the Field of Music and a special citation 
from John Lindsay (when he was mayor) 
for Outstanding Contributions to the Cul
ture of New York City.
For further information regarding tick
ets for the Pittsburgh Symphony Pops 
Series can be obtained by phoning the 
Heinz Hall Box Office at 281-5000.
.PptSn gPn(tShtssR h(P hlss d'trm la BrSat8lt gudle Drss FtpSurSy o0f
,zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz
Hotel. Cy branched out into jazz, forming 
a trio which toured all over the country in 
person and on radio and television.
Many of his song hits have become a 
part of our current culture with some ex
amples being Witchcraft, Big Spender, 
If My Friends Could See Me Now, Real 
Live Girl, The Best Is Yet To Come, 
Pass Me By and Hey, Look Me Over. 
The last song has been used in political 
campaigns across the country and as a 
theme song for towns and colleges. The 
New York Times and Variety, in a front 
page story, attributed Senator Birch Bayhs 
victory over Senator Capehart in Indiana to
C-MU 
GRADUATE STUDENT SOCIETY
HAPPy HOUR
SKIBO FACULTY DINING ROOM 
Friday February 27 4-6 PM
Artist Robert Motherwell, one of the 
foremost masters of the New York School 
of Abstract Expressionism, will speak 8:30 
pm, Feb. 18 in Carnegie Music Hall as part 
of the Man and Ideas lecture series pre
sented by the Womens Committee, Muse
um of Art, Carnegie Institute.
Mr. Motherwells appearance will be 
sponsored by Dravo Corporation.
An abstractionist from the beginning of 
his career, Mr. Motherwell has been associ
ated with the New York School since it 
began during the early 1940s. He was 
among a group of abstract expressionists 
including Willem de Koonig, Hans Hoff
man, William Baziotes, Barnette Newman, 
Adolf Gottlieb and Mark Rothko who con
ducted a school called Subjects of the 
Artist in New York.
There is, however, marked European 
influence in his work because of many 
travels in Europe and the influence of such 
prominent European abstract and surreal
ist painters as Marcel Duchamp, Piet 
Mondrian, Max Ernst and Andre Masson 
who fled to the United States at the start 
of World War II. One of Mr. Motherwells
persistent themes was Elegies to the 
Spanish Republic, which produced at 
least 100 works, although he has painted in 
a variety of styles on numerous subjects.
One of the first Americans to experi
ment in the art of collage, Mr. Motherwell 
has exhibited throughout the world from 
1940 to the present. His work has been in 
every major exhibit of abstract expression
ism, and six Motherwell paintings have 
been shown in Pittsburgh International 
Exhibitions from 1952 to 1967.
Born in Aberdeen, Wash., Mr. Motherwell studied at Otis Institute, California 
School of Fine Arts, Stanford, Harvard and 
Columbia universities. He has taught at 
Harvard, Yale University and Hunter Col
lege among others, and also influenced 
other artists as editor of The Do'-uments of 
Modern Art and Modem Artists in Ameri
ca.
Free tickets for the lecture are avail
able at the Public Relations Office, Carne
gie Institute, 4400 Forbes Ave., Pittsburgh, 
Pa. 15213; Pittsburgh Ticketron agencies 
and student union buildings at Pittsburgh 
colleges and universities.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-THE TARTAN-February 17,1976
TARTANS ARE ON THE RAMPAGE
WIN THREE IN A ROW: CASE, THIEL FALL
by Bob Firm
On the surface, there didnt appear to 
be anything special about Carnegie-Mellons 75-58 victory over Thiel. After all, 
the Tartans easily defeated the Tomcats 
at home this season. But this game had 
more significance than any other CMU en
counter of the current campaign.
It was the 500th career win in the 
history of Tech since the inception of 
roundball back in 1906. It was the First 
time in five years that CMU had won two 
in a row. It was also the first road triumph 
for the Tartans this season. The confi
dence gained by winning in an enemy 
arena might be of importance for CMU 
when they make their Final two road trips 
to Hiram and Allegheny.
Again, as in the John Carroll game, 
balanced scoring and high shooting per
centage played major roles in CMUs 
victory. Four players were in double and 
and an even 50% was shot for the evening.
CMU used some of their best execution 
of Coach Dave Maloneys many offensive 
variations to build a comfortable 18 point 
first half lead that they would never relinguish.
After seeing Thiel close to within nine 
(45-36) at halftime, CMU hung rough de
fensively at the right times to coast to an 
impressive victory.
Marty Costa, who has been a terror the 
past few outings, again led the Tartans in 
scoring and rebounding. He poured in 23 
points and grabbed 16 boards. Co-captain 
Dane Wukich and Larry DiCicco backed 
Costa with 16 apiece and Ralph DeaBrunzzo chipped in with 12.
The win brought CMUs season record 
to 4-11 and 4-6 in conference play.
CARNEGIEMELLON
CMU wins third straight by beating Case 88-73 on Saturday.
Peul Hamerly puts in two as the Case defense looks on. photo by Elliot Popowitz
THIEL
PLAYERFGFTREBPTS
Pompelia80516
Quinlan61513
Campell4189
Fox3016
Thiel2034
Theirman2054
Lehman2054-
Fantine1062
2823858
PLAYERFGFTREBPTS
Costa1031623
DiCicco641016
Wukich80416
DeaBrunzzo60612
Hamerly3066
Duncan1012
Ward0030
Boykins0000
3474675
CMU CLINCHES THIRD VICTORY 
Clobbers Case 88-73 on Saturday
by Bob Firm
A confident and talented CarnegieMellon squad gave another in a continuing 
series of excellent home performances by 
avenging an early season loss to Case West
ern Reserve, 88-73.
The victory, third in a row, was CMUs 
fifth of the year against 11 losses. It mark
ed the longest winning streak for the Tar
tans since the 1969-70 season. It also 
assured this edition of the highest win 
output in five years.
A devasting balanced attack proved to 
be too much for the visiting Spartans. The 
Tartans had tremendous scoring punch 
both inside and out as four players reached 
double Figures.
Ralph DeaBrunzzo set the pace by 
connecting on 8 of 12 from the field and a 
perfect 10 for 10 from the foul line to 
finish the afternoon with 26. The transfer 
from Penm State-New Kensington, who in 
the beginning of the year was having 
problems handling his new point guard 
position, lately has shown great confi
dence and wisdom in directing CMUs 
offense. Besides his game high point total, 
he was also high in assists with nine.
Larry DiCicco rammed home 20 points, 
13 in the first half; Marty Chairman of 
the Boards Costa added 18 tallies to go 
along with 14 rebounds; and a mustacheless Paul Hamerly came off two lackluster 
efforts to score 14 to account for much of 
the Tartan point total.
The game was patterned much like the 
John Carroll victory. The Tartans broke 
open a close contest in the first half and 
then easily glided to the triumph.
The few fans on hand at Skibo Gym 
wondered if anyonfe would miss in the 
first few minutes. It looked more like
KLAUSING NAMES "MO" SMITH 
AS CHIEF FOOTBALL ASST.
Carnegie-Mellon head football coach, 
Chuck Klausing, has named Dick Mo 
Smith as his chief assistant and defensive 
co-ordinator for the 1976 football season.
Smith, a 1970 graduate of Indiana Uni
versity of Pennsylvania, has been the defen
sive backfield coach at IUP the past three 
seasons and was a standout in the second
ary for three seasons when Klausing coach
ed the Indians in the mid and late 60s.
A 1965 graduate of Latrobe, Pa. High 
School, Smith was a starting cornerback 
for Klausing in his sophmore season. 
Forced to sit out the 1968 season because 
of injuries, he coached the Indian cornerbacks and called defensive signals from the 
press box. That season IUP Finished with a 
9-0 record and went to the Boardwalk 
Bowl, where the Indians fell to powerful 
Delaware, 31-24.
Smith coached the IUP secondary in 
1970 and 1971 under head coach Bill 
Neale, and went to Rhode Island Univer
sity as a wide receiver coach for the 1972 
season.
Neale called Smith as fine a backfield 
coach as any in the country.
I hate like the dickens to lose him, 
Neale said, but I dont want to hold him 
back. Mo has great potential and has had a 
tremendous rapport with the players he 
has coached here.
Klausing, who assumed the head coach
ing job Dec. 2 of last year after leaving the 
chief assistants post at West Virginia, said 
that having observed Smith as an athlete 
and coach, it was obvious that he has a 
great desire and has made great sacrifices to 
be a coach.
He has turned out a well-coached 
secondary at IUP and is well liked by the 
players, staff and administration.
When you hire or recommend a coach, 
you want intelligence, loyalty and willing
ness to work. He has proven this through 
my ten years of observing him.
Klausing has also decided to keep 
Dennis Morabito, defensive line coach and 
sports information director; Dennis 
Creehan, offensive ... 'oach; Dave 
DeCamilla, offensive line coach, and 
Bill Englert, the receivers coach, on the 
staff. Both Englert and Creehan are from 
Johnny Majors staff at Pitt, but this past
1975 season they assisted CMUs former 
head football coach, Joe Gasparella. 
Another new face will appear on Klausings 
staff besides Mo Smith and that is Dan 
Prisella, an assistant coach at Central 
Catholic High School. Prisella will be in 
charge of the cornerbacks.
Two members of Gasparellas staff will 
not be returning next season. They are 
Jim Youngblood and Ned Mervos. Ironical
ly, for two years, Youngblood coached 
with Klausing at West Virginia University 
but came to CMU last season to be the 
defensive coordinator for the Tartans.
Sunday afternoon in the NBA than a 
Presidents Athletic Conference battle as 
defense and offensive patterns were absent 
from both teams vocabularies.
Tech, after nine lead changes and three 
ties during the opening four minutes, took 
control of the game on a Costa turn
around jumper and a DeaBrunzzo long 
range bomb to give them a five point 
advantage.
Then the real explosion occured as CMU 
played perfect basketball to build leads 
that mushroomed to 22 in the first half. 
Everything was co-ordinated, from the fast 
break to the way that the managers passed 
out towels and Gatorade. CMUs constant 
hustle was typlified by Pat Ward who 
made several steals and pulled down 10 
bounds mainly on desire alone.
After their crisp first half performance 
that saw them construct a 45-25 advantage 
at intermission, the Tartans played poorly 
at the beginning of the final 20 minutes. 
Their deadly shooting accuracy was missing 
and the old habit of sloppy play was start
ing to show.
However, CMU quickly got a grasp 
of the situation and played some fine ball. 
Despite the unstoppable outside shooting 
of Dave Boyer and Mark Termini, Case 
was unable to get closer than the final 15 
point deficit.
CMU, now with a 5-6 record in PAC 
play will get two more chances to improve 
their conference standing this week. 
Tomorrow night the Tartans take on 
Washington & Jefferson at home at 8:00 
p.m. and Saturday night travel to Hiram 
for a clash with the league leader. The team 
hopes to see a large turnout at tomorrows 
game.
CARNEGIE-MELLON
PLAYERFGFTREBPTS
DeaBrunzzo810226
DiCicco92620
Costa821418
Hamerly54714
Ward12104
Duncan1234
Thomas1002
Boykins0002
Schwartz0000
33224288
CASE-WESTERN
PLAYERFGFTREBPTS
Evans70314
Boyer70114
Termini61213
Shivers44312
Buse1486
Harnocz3006
Gauthey2014
Allen.2014
3292273
YOUR 
DEGREE
Permanently laminated 
on wood. Exclusive Nonglare Process by Lamln-Art
Co.
Available at the 
BOOK STORE 
Baker Hall

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-February 17, 1976-Page 19
BUGGY COMMENTS
vq, f BSrm5 nf 
9rmsraH 
Kvo7q-v,
9 a m. - 5 p.m. Daily
10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Saturdays
TANKERS BEAT CASE 
SET NEW RECORDS
ml' 6rssret xmattsla8? dntrsd n(t 'uem MSPL Blaelaarnl raH Clss i(PL'dPa ePLtd la nP (ts'f
photo by Mary K. Groupe
HOCKEY CLUB DROPS TWO
Continued from page seventeen
son scored their final two on strong singlehanded offensive efforts. The refs finally 
decided to make use of their whistles in 
this last period, handing a tripping penalty 
to Denison at 3:09 and making some nit
picking calls in the final three minutes. 
These included high-sticking against Larry 
Stuever and one of the Bears, and tripping 
against Bill Miller. A potential fight in the
last minute sent Denison to the box for 
roughing, and another bout brought two 
more roughing calls against Dave Cornelius 
and Denison. . |
The return of Larry Stuever on the 14th 
gave a welcome boost to the Tartans, 
though the absences of 4 other players 
were still sorely felt. The club will have to 
find some way to bolster their flagging spi
rits in their upcoming games.
by Ned Uber
The old gym will never be the same. The 
Tartan Tankers completed the job the bas
ketball team started when the swimmers 
crushed Case 73 to 40. This was the last 
dual meet of the season, giving the team a 
3-5 record, and 2-3 in the PACs. This isnt 
as good as was predicted at the beginning 
of the season, but a definite improvement 
over last year. CMU will try to better their 
fifth place standing at the PAC champion
ships in three weeks.
Saturdays meet started with a CMU 
victory in the medley relay because Case 
didnt enter a team. The meet went back 
and forth until the required diving ended 
and CMU led by 3. The highlight of the 
first half was Wilson Boyces record 500 
freestyle of 5:28.5. In the next 3 events, 
the 200 butterfly, 100 freestyle, and 200 
backstroke, CMU swept Case, taking firsts 
and seconds and increasing the lead to 27. 
In the process two school records were set. 
Harry Coleman broke the 200 yard butter
fly record by four tenths of a second with 
his 2:11.1 and Joe Dickey did it in the 200 
yard backstroke by 1 second with his 
2:10.4 The meet was won but CMU had 
something yet to prove. The best possible 
freestyle relay was assembled for an
assault on the school record. And they did 
it. Their 3:32.7 smashed the old record of 
3:33.1.
Four- records and a victory made a pro
ductive afternoon for the team and a good 
final dual meet for the senior co-captains, 
Amy Killburg and Ned Uber. The scoring 
was:
Medley Belay  Harry Coleman, Ned Uber.
Pete Dickey, Jeff Bland 
1000 Freestyle  1st Wilson Boyce 
3rd John Rossi 
200 Freestyle  2nd Dave Bankert 
50 Freestyle  2nd Frank Dittman 
200 IM  1st Joe Dickey 
3rd Mike Butler 
Required Diving  2nd Tony Carrington 
3rd Brian Day 
200 Butterfly  1st Harry Coleman 
2nd Dave Mapes 
100 Freestyle  1st Jeff Bland 
2nd Frank Dittman 
200 Backstroke  1st Joe Dickey 
2nd Wilson Boyce 
500 Freestyle  2nd Dave Bankert 
3rd John Rossi 
200 Breaststroke  2nd Ned Uber 
3rd Bob Gierard 
Optional Diving  1st Tony Carrington 
400 Freestyle relay  1st Jeff Bland, 
Frank Dittman, Harry Coleman, Joe 
Dickey
THIEL TOPPLFED 42-41
MUK
ICO.
Artist'sSupplies
by Gordon Morrison
Last Wednesday at Thiel, CarnegieMellon University Womens basketball 
team beat Thiel by one point in a very 
close and exciting game, 4241. This was 
the third game out of six this season that 
was decided by one point.
In the first half, both sides played 
basketball. However after the halftime 
intermission, the game changed drastically. 
Football pads should have been issued. 
Since Thiel was better at dishing out the
Aardvarks 
Take IM's
by Laura Power
contact, they caught up very quickly. At 
one point CMU was up by five points but 
Thiel came back to within two. With 14 
seconds left in the game andTMU leading 
by two, a Thiel player stole the ball and 
was fouled on her layup. She missed the 
layup and the first foul shot, but she made 
the second to bring Thiel within one with 
nine seconds left. In the last frantic sec
onds there were two turnovers with CMU 
finally gaining possession at the buzzer.
Barb Owens who shot 100% at tlii half 
and 62% overall, lead the team with 18 
points and 15 rebounds. Karen Alinger 
I had 12 points and Elly Zimmerm^ had 
9 points and 9 rebounds. , j*
The womens record is now 3 of or the 
season. The womens next home game will 
be on Wednesday at 6:00 in the Skibo 
gym against W&J, a team CMU beat by 
one point earlier this season.
On Tuesday, February 10, Womens 
IM saw one of its closest, most 
competitive basketball games in four 
years. The Black All-Stars met the Aard
varks in a sizzling encounter.
The All-Stars, who were accompanied 
by a large cheering section, jumped out to 
a first quarter 2-0 lead. But the Aardvarks 
tied it up early in the second quarter with 
a lay up by Barb Owens. However, AllStars Karlene Morgan broke away from 
Aardvark defenders for a quick basket 
giving them a half-time lead of two points.
The Aardvarks tight defense held the 
All-Stars scoteless in the second half, and 
two baskets by Barb Owens gave the 
Aardvarks a 6-4 victory.
The unusually low score is a reflection 
of a highly defensive game. The Aardvarks 
shot a poor percentage from the floor and 
could only score against the All-Stars after 
repeated attempts. Similarly the Aardvarks 
capable defense broke up many fast breaks 
and forced the All-Stars to make less accur
ate outside shots.
The victory should clinch the Womens 
IM title for the Aardvarks who are unde
feated for the season.
V A
by L.S.D.C.
For the first time in quite a few years 
the Sweepstakes Committee is conducting 
a complete revision of the rules and regula
tions that govern Sweepstakes. The revision 
was initiated by Joan Bothwell, the 
Sweepsstakes Chairperson, and has been 
taking place at the weekly meetings of the 
buggy chairpeople. Thus far, no major 
changes have been made but many of the 
obscure and ambiguous rules are being 
clarified and/or condensed.
The largest efforts in the rules revision 
should be directed toward the safety rules, 
the definition of fouls, and the qualifica
tions for reruns. Most of the safety rules 
were written approximately four years ago. 
Now that they have been lived with for 
that long there are some changes and addi
tions that ccufd be made to greatly improve 
their effectiveness.
The definitions of fouls an4 the quali
fications for reruns are two areas that have 
been very troublesome in the past (just 
look at some of the things that happened 
on race day last year as an example.)Clear
ly defining what does or does not consti
tute a foul or who qualifies for a rerun is 
almost an impossible task but in their pre
sent form the rules leave a lot of room for 
improvements. The final decision in these 
matters must always be left to the judges 
but a clear set of guidelines must be pro
vided to them if they are to be expected to 
make the correct decisions.
One very sound idea that has come up 
in the area of judging is that of using 
alumni of the buggy racing organizations as 
judges. This would significantly improve 
the caliber of the judges as they would 
then be people who are familiar with buggy 
racing and not university officials and 
administrators who only see buggies once a 
year.
A revision of the rules is something that 
has been talked about and needed for 
many years but in the past, neither the 
Sweepstakes Chairmen, nor the buggy 
chairpeople have ever been ambitious enough to bring it about. It is encouraging 
to see the current interest of the chairpeo
ple in this matter. A revision of the rules is 
a long and tedious process but it will make 
buggy racing safer, more enjoyable, and 
easier for everyone involved. With only se
ven and a half weeks left until raceday, it 
is hoped that the buggy chairpeople will 
complete their task in time.
photo by Mary K. GroupewrEt BPSatslud dePStd MPS Bgf

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20THE TARTAN-February 17 ,1976
MAJOR LEAGUE STANDINGS
WL
1. ATO71
2. Pride82
3. BTP62
4. Black Heat52
5. Orangatangs73
6. SAE44
7.PKA55
8. S&P34
9. Celtics25
10. GSIA28
ll.PKT16
12. Studs08
TOP MAJOR LEAGUE SCORERS
1. White (S&P)20.5
2. Sabo (Celtics)16.6
3. Hopkins (Pride)13.7
4. Coates (Pride)12.1
5. Domenick (Orang.)11.8
6. Sandberg (PKT)11.4
7. Chandler (Orang.)11.1
8. DAngelo (PKA)11.1
9-iMarusic (ATO)11.0
10. Harris (Black H.)10.7
FENCERS COMPETE
On Saturday, CMU hosted Cleveland 
State College (CSC) in a nine man, three 
weapon intercollegiate fencing meet. 
Cleveland State won by seven points 17-10, 
CMU won the foil competition 7-2 
but lost in epee 1-8 and in sabre 2-7. 
Individual results for CMU were:
FOIL:John Booz3-0
Victor Brennan2-1
Joe Sivak2-1
EPEE:Peter Bond1-2
John Maldonado0-3
Eric Zischkau0-3
SABRE:Rich Jorkasky2-1
Gary Frankston0-3
Brian Pierson0-3
Sunday CMU held an intermediate and 
novice invitational fencing meet in foil. 
Eight schools participated: Allegheny
College, Indiana of Penn. California State 
College, West Virginia Univ., Penn State 
(Fayette and McKeesport), Pitt and Ohio 
State.
1HE
jfNiERIGlN
WA'i
OF
DEMH
SUICIDE
WP(a .lemsruMR Director, Contact Pittsburgh
March
DEATH AND GRIEF: AN 
INTERRELIGIOUS VIEW
jrats Pn cStr .tsl8lPud .t'StdtanrnlEtd
Sf grSy :Puldt Trd(R Professor of Psychology,
Carlow College
SOME THINGS TO CONSIDER: WILLS, 
BURIALS, DONATING BODY PARTS, 
ALTERNATIVES
"rSlPud jlnndpuS8( StdPuSet 'tP'st 
hlss pt Hldeuddla8 n(tdt nP'ledf
ALL LECTURES ON CONSECUTIVE TUESDAY EVENINGS AT 7:30 P M IN THE 
WHERRETT ROOM, SKIBO EXCEPT MARCH 9 TO BE HELD IN BREED HALL, 
MARGARET MORRISON BUILDING AT CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITY 
THE SERIES IS FREE AND OPEN TO THE PUBLIC
PROGRAM SPONSORED BY CAMPUS PROGRAM PLANNING, BNAI BRITH 
HILLEL-JEWTSH UNIVERSITY CENTER, UNIVERSITY AND CITY MINISTRY
Individual results for CMU were: 
WOMENS INTERMEDIATE:
Mariam Whitworth finished second 
Debbie Lasher finished fourth
MENS NOVICE:
Victor Brennan finished second 
Gary Frankston finished sixth
MENS INTERMEDIATE:
Rich Jorkasky finished first
PLATO 
KEYBOARD 
MISSING .
I)
CZU
UNIVERSITY 
COPY 
SERVICE
HIGHESTQUALITY xerox copies 
(All work unconditionally guaranteed) 
LOWEST PRICES 
Single copies per original  5c 
Multiple copies per original:
1st copy 
2nd-50th copies 
51st
4c
3c
2c
NO EXTRA CHARGE FOR:
collating  3-hole punched 
colored paper  legal size
Low cost bookbinding 
Quality offset printing 
209 N. Craig St. 681 5411
Continued from page one
termittently defective, the loss is neverthe
less considerable since we have been await
ing delivery of a replacement to be traded 
for the old one. If the keyboard is not re
turned, we will be forced to pay full price 
for the replacement. The loss to thV 
PLATO users community will be greater:
1. This room will be locked except 9-5, 
M-F.
2. Only users with demonstrable need, such 
as harmonic assignments will be allowed. 
The casual self-ed user will be frozen out.
3. No attempt will be made to keep PLA
TO on campus.
With respect to (3), users should undeD 
 stand that because of abuse of the system 
by a very few, PLATO has always been 
troublesome to administer, and legitimate 
users have often had trouble getting termi
nals. If the troublesome abuse extends to 
thievery, as it now has, we will simply an
nounce that the campus community seems 
to contain too large a proportion of out
right thieves for us to be able to afford thi|^ 
type of educational system. Rather than 
guard everything of conceivable value, we 
will simply have nothing of value around. 
Who are the losers, then?
I urge anyone with information about 
the missing terminal to let it be known. 
The consequence of inaction will be the 
loss of the system.
R.T. SchumachVf 
(For anonymous keyboard returns, you 
might put the keyboard in a bag, put the 
bag in a locker (free) in the bookstore, and 
send the key to M. Levine or R. Schuma
cher in the campus mail! -- Regardless of 
condition, we must have that keyboard.)
M. Levine
AU CONTRAIRE...
continued from page 3
Mr. Charlemagne: Is Mr. Bovik trying to 
insinuate that I am a skeleton in my own 
closet?
TARTAN:. . .Dont you feel that your, uh, 
advanced age may hurt your candidacy? 
Mr. Charlemagne: AU CONTRAIRE. Its 
true that I have been around for 1200 
years. However, I feel this puts me in a 
better position to understand the problems 
of CMU grad students, many of whom are 
under the impression that they have been 
here considerably longer.
TARTAN: I understand that you have 
levelled some rather unusual charges 
against your opponent in this election. 
Mr. Charlemagne: Mr. Bovik is patently un
qualified for the office of emperor. As a 
graduate student in computer science, he 
is better equipped to deal with machines 
than with people. He has no experience as 
an emperor; in fact, he doesnt even know 
what the word emporium means. And 
his middle name starts with Q. Have 
you ever heard of a successful emperor 
whose middle name started with Q? 
Its ABSOLUMENT FANTASTIQUE! 
Besides, he doesnt exist.
TARTAN: What?
Mr. Charlemagne: Thats right. Why has 
no one ever seen Harry Q. Bovik eating in 
Skibo? How come no one can find his
office? Why hasnt he been on the Johnny 
Carson show? Its TRES SIMPLEthere is 
no such person!
TARTAN: Thank you very much.
(At this point, TARTAN reporter Clark 
Kent spotted a purse-snatching and left to 
change into his Richard Cyert crimefight^ 
ing costume!)
In a subsequent statement to the press, 
Mr. Bovik responded that these charges 
are typical of Mr. Charlemagnes smear 
tactics. They are a transparent attempt to 
distract the voters attention from the real 
issues, such as the question of slush funds.
I would like to know what happened to all 
the slush that was around here a few days^ 
ago. I consider its sudden disappearance to 
be highly suspicious, and I have received re
liable information to the effect that it has 
wound up ih a slush fund for Mr. Charle
magne. I would like to see a full inves
tigation of this matter, because I fear that 
the voters are the victims of a real snow 
job. As for Mr. Charlemagnes allegation 
that I dont exist, it is just preposterous. ^ 
think, therefore I am. You can quote me 
on that. Finally, I feel that CMUs grad 
students deserve more vital leadership than 
they will get from a man who has been 
dead for nearly 1200 years. Mr. Boviks  
statement was, as usual, released through 
his press secretary, the IBM 360 computer. |
ic.icT i1jbbii;T TARTAN TYPESETTING ic.icT
TARTAN TYPESETTING ic.icT i1jbbii;T TARTAN TYPESETTING TAR
TARTAN TYPESETTING ic.icT i1jbbii;T TARTAN TYPESETTING ic.icT i1jb
ic.icT i1jbbii;T TARTAN TYPESETTING ic.icT
TARTAN TYPESETTING ic.icT i1jbbii;T TARTAN TYPESETTING ic.
TARTAN TYPESETTING ic.icT i1jbbii;T TARTAN TYPESETTING ic.icT i1jb
(412) 682-45S7
