March 7, 1972
Volume 72
Number 6
WOMEN: NO ACTION
Since the publication of the Womens 
Commission Report no information 
concerning the actions taken on the status 
and needs of women has been disseminated 
to the campus community. Is the 
woman issue a dead issue? Or have their 
inequities been resolved? From interviews 
with Acting President Schatz and Research 
Proposal Coordinator Patricia Carlson, the 
following progress report was obtained. A 
Monitoring Committee was established to 
submit to the Administrative Action 
Committee a list of priorities based on the 
Commissions original 55 
recommendations. Members of the 
Monitoring Committee include Helene 
Borke, Tricia Carlson, Peggy Sanday, Irene 
Daugherty, Joan Lelar, Joan Kovalic, and 
Ellie Finger. According to Ms. Carlson the 
Monitoring Committee presented its list of 
priorities to the Administrative Action 
Committee prior to December 3, 1971.
The list mainly addressed the existing 
financial inequities, which it was hoped 
could be resolved before the new budget is 
finalized. In a meeting December 3, the 
Monitoring Committee was informed that 
their list had not been reviewed. No actions 
have been taken. Dr. Schatz confirmed this 
and explained that the financial crisis at 
CMU was the first priority. He did say 
however, that studies were being generated 
to determine the best, most efficient 
manner in which to equalize salaries. By 
June, 1972 CMU must submit an 
Affirmative Action Plan to the Federal 
government. Originally, an Office of Equal 
Opportunity was to be established to write 
the plan and monitor its implementation.
An OEO was not initiated according Ms. 
Carlson because, ...there wasnt a 
minority person or a woman involved, 
except in a very minor capacity. Since their 
(the Administrations) primary objective 
was to get an Affirmative Action Plan 
written, we (the Monitoring Committee) 
suggested an alternative approach which 
they have now adopted.. The alternative 
was to appoint a writing team to complete 
the first draft of CMUs Arrirmative Action
CAREERS
A new idea in career planning has been 
created on the CMU campus through the 
joint efforts of the co-ed junior honorary 
and the alumni office. The program, dub
bed Career Alumni Rap, will bring alumni 
to the campus to talk informally to under
graduates about entering a number of car
eers.
In the first of these meetings the careers 
of law and medicine will be represented. 
Two or three alumni from each will be 
here, in Skibo, to offer specific viewpoints 
about the possibilities and problems under
graduates can expect to encounter. This 
dialog is the primary goal of the Career 
Alumni Rap.
To keep these conversations as informal
Plan. The team includes, Carol Kaufman, 
Anthony Dent, and Jan Cohn. When it is 
completed, says Ms. Carlson, People will 
get a chance to tear it apart... before it is 
finally accepted and sent to the 
Government. Action Plan an OEO will be 
established to monitor its implementation. 
Will a woman be director of the OEO 
program? Dr. Stever said no. Dr. Schatz 
would not committ himself. Ms. Carlson 
said, We feel very strongly about a woman 
being the head of that office. Weve learned 
that when we recommend a particular 
person at that high a level they dont listen. 
So anyone we would recommend would 
probably be automatically turned down. 
But we do insist that it be a woman. What 
is being done? According to Ms. Carlson, 
women students conducted a survey to 
determine the need and desire for 
on-campus gynecological services, which 
was rejected by Dean Swank. The Dean did 
institute another survey concerning parietal 
hours, and is to make a statement on 
parietal rules. In the fall of 1971 men dorrtv 
counselors were being paid for their 
services. Women dorm counselors were not. 
Some faculty and administrators have 
seriously questioned this practice feeling it 
is a case of blatant discrimination. The 
Faculty Senate, reported Dr. Schatz, is 
working to raise consciousness within its 
ranks. Also, the deans in the male 
oriented disciplines are working toward 
attracting and keeping more women in 
their colleges. Admissions is collecting data, 
for a statistical study, requested by the 
Womens Commission, to determine 
whether or not women are discriminated 
against in the admissions procedure at 
CMU. Finally, at this point in time, Dr. 
Schatz feels that raising consciousness and 
changing attitudes is most important in 
the long run. Ms. Carlson feels the 
Administration is resisting the women 
issue. I think in three months they could 
have made some positive decisions and if 
they have made any, theyve been verbal 
and theyve been closed to the Monitoring 
Committee. They keep saying, We 
havent have time to consider this yet .
as possible, the number to be admitted will 
be kept small. Those who are interested in 
the idea, and want to reserve a place for 
Sunday evening, March 12, are encouraged 
to call one of the following juniors: Gary 
Crosbie, project chairman, at 682-2427; 
Louis DePaul, for law; or Dan Deakter, for 
medicine. The Rap will start at 7:00 pm. in 
the faculty dining room. Some refresh
ments will be served.
In the Career Alumni Rap the resources 
of the juniors in Phi Tau Gamma-Delta 
Skull are combined with the experience of 
alumni. Together, they offer now an excel
lent opportunity for all interested under 
graduates to discuss potential occupations 
with people who can provide much infor
mation about them.
1972: A SEXUAL ODYSSEY, an all 
day symposium to promote an awareness 
and an understanding of all aspects sur
rounding the topic of human sexuality and 
contraception including abortion will be 
held at the University of Pittsburgh on 
Wednesday, March 8, beginning at 10:00 
am. in the Student Union Ballroom.
This program is co-sponsored by the 
Womens Housing Board of the University 
and Pennsylvania Environmental Ac
tion-Zero Population Growth.
The three panel discussions which will 
be presented are 1) Human Sexuality, 2) 
Contraception and Abortion-Medical and 
Psychological Aspects, and 3) Abortion in 
Pennsylvania-Legal and Legislative Aspects.
The Human Sexuality panel will initiate 
the days events by exploring and discus
sing the role and capabilities of each person 
as a sexual being in todays society. The 
topic will be presented from a psychologic
al, physiological, and student point of 
view.
The second panel will discuss the me
thods of contraception and abortion and 
the psychological effects they have on the 
individual. The panel will consist of mem
bers of Planned Parenthood in Pittsburgh 
and a professor of obstetrics and gynecolo
gy at the University.
The final discussion will focus on the 
legal and legislative aspects of abortion in 
Pennsylvania. The panel composed of 
members of predominent interest groups 
concerning the legalization of abortion will 
present the direction and future movement 
of the proposed abortion bill presently in 
the state legislature.
Five related movies will be shown con
tinuously from 11:00 am. to 4:00 pm. in 
Dining Rooms A, B, and C located on the 
first floor of the Student Union.
The program will culminate with a key
note address by William Baird on the topic 
of The ABCs of Abortion and Birth Con
trol. 
Bill Baird is the Director and founder of 
the New York Parent Aid Society, a 
non-profit birth control, abortion and nar
cotic center.
GALLERY
One of the problems an artist 
encounters is finding a place to exhibit his 
work. Thanks to the efforts of Pomeroyal 
Fountain and Cynthia Fox, members of 
the Painting and Sculpture student advi
sory committee, the admission office has 
provided space for exhibition of work. 
While youre up there next time tricking 
down your elusive financial aid, take a look 
at the changing displays on the walls.
The CMU Student Gallery has a new 
group of showing artists every week or so. 
Currently on view is the work of a group of 
girls Mio have dubbed themselves, The 
Ladies Auxilary. To find out their true 
identities and to get a look at their work, 
which covers just abQut every medium of 
expression available, head over to the gal
lery, on the corner of Forbes Ave. and 
Margaret Morrison Street.
Capt. Video
The Activities Board of CMU has joined 
two national video tape networks in order 
that several new programs can be made 
available to CMU students. Many 
companies are producing special 
alternative television programs to be 
used on video tape equipment and shown 
to college audiences. Students at CMU may 
remember Groove Tube, the first such 
program shown on this campus last year.
The first program series for this year 
began on Monday in Skibo Lobby from 
11:30 AM to 1:30 PM. It is entitled The 
New Voters Series and will present one 
hour programs featuring interviews with all 
the presidential candidates. The 
introductory program, being shown all this 
wee, features Robert Dole and Lawrence 
OBrien, the two National Party Chairmen. 
Dole and OBrien are interviewed by 
students in tape sessions moderated by 
Nicholas Johnson, FCC Commissioner and 
Nat HentofT. Programs will follow for the 
balance of the school year until all ten in 
this series have been presented.
The schedule for the remaining 
programs is:
1. Mar. 6-12 Dole & OBrien
2. Mar. 13-19 Senator Jackson
3. Mar. 20-26 Senator McCarthy
4. April 3-9 Senator McCloskey
5 & 6. April 10-16 Rep. Chisholm
& Senator McGovern
7 & 8. April 17-23 Wilbur Mills
& Hubert Humphrey
9 & 10. April 24-30 Senator Muskie
& Ronald Reagan
In addition to the Voters series, the 
AB is tentatively planning to reshow 
Groove Tube sometime during the 
Spring Semester. Watch for the dates and 
times.
CMU ARTS
The CMU Arts & Crafts Festival will 
take place for the first time at the up
coming Spring Carnival. The festival is 
scheduled for Friday and Saturday, April
21 and 22, 12-5:30 pm. There will ne plen
ty of space for anyone who cares to partici
pate.
The structure is very informal. Anything 
goes: candles, belts, photographs, silkscreens, jewelry, sketchings, needlecraft, 
painting, and macrame. Anyone can dis
play his work and keep all profits.
The fair is designed for both the artist 
and the viewer. Co-op artists, art galleries, 
and many schools will show their work, so 
the kinds of art should be diverse and plen
ty*
Registration procedure will soon be 
made available for anyone interested in 
participating. It will generally involve giv
ing your name, address, phone number, 
and the dates you wish to display your 
work (preferably both days).
If you are interested in participating, 
contact Nancy Novick, chairman, CMU 
Arts and Crafts Festival.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2-The Tartan-Tuesday, March 7, 1972
editors note
The confusion of mid-semester grading is again in the past, although 
the underlying conflicts in the H&SS system itself remain unresolved. The 
three present systems have all proved inadequate, as evidenced by 
growing, vocal concern among students and faculty. The H&SS grading 
committee has just reported that H/C/NE is harmful to grad school 
admissions. Some teachers are appeasing paranoid graduate school 
hopefuls by providing the much coveted letter grade on written 
evaluations. Committees, surveys and petitions are constantly appearing to 
develop a system acceptable to educational "liberaIs as well as the panic 
stricken students and more traditional faculty. But no adequate method 
of evaluation will be adopted until the goals of the College of Humanities 
and Social Sciences are clearly defined and until students who enter the 
college accept the goals and their implications.
Within a university which is a highly "professional institution, geared 
toward training the individual to a career, there exists a certain pressure to 
have all disciplines conform to this standard. C. /. T. has always prided 
itself in the quality of the technicians it produces. The rest of the 
university, perhaps of necessity, adopts a similar attitude.
So what does this do to the humanities? It strains the departments 
concerned to find technical or professional approaches to their subjects. 
It puts an overemphasis on graduate school, and what to do to get into a 
good grad school. It is just like in high school when everyone tells you to 
study hard and join lots of clube so that you can get into a good college. 
We are continuously looking to the future as holding the ultimate 
satisfaction, the ultimate opportunity for the acquisition of knowledge. 
Our present experiences only gain meaning in their relevance to our future 
goals.
What a waste of years! Are we to believe that only graduate schools 
hold the answers? Undergraduate education, non-professional education, 
must exist for a reason. In the college catalogue, Dr. Hayes enumerated 
several purposes none of which included the accumulation of A a or Hs 
to get into grad school. He stressed the need to broaden understanding of 
the vritical problems confronting modern man and of the forces which 
"have shaped and continue to shape him and his world. Dr. Hayes 
discussed self-knowledge, reexamination of ideas and values, and the 
synthesis of these processes into an independent intellectual spirit which 
continues its own education without artificial stimuli.
These goals are not inconsistent with a desire to go on to grad school, 
but do place the emphasis on an individual's achievement. If carried out, 
these goals provide the foundation f-or the creation of a highly skilled, 
aware and imaginative mind. This is an asset which is essential to those 
who aspire to either professional or further academic goals.
If educational systems are to change, if they are ever to provide an 
environment for free intellectual activity, they must remain independent 
of the technical burdens of grad school preparations. Emphasis should not 
rest with Q.P.A.s: the fear instilling grad schools will be forced to rely on 
less mechanical and more creative standards of acceptance.
/ am in favor of a system which provides extensive and admittedly 
subjective evaluation of a students work in the humanities. If it is 
necessary to record some symbols as indications of achievement, let them 
be symbols which allow for excellence beyond the basic level of 
competence required, and let this indication of excellence be an academic 
honor, not a ticket for grad school admission. A student should never fail 
but continue to work in an area until his performance is considered 
adequate. The mastery system is one which provides this method of 
evaluation.
/ fear that the college will be taking a giant step backward if we return 
to a conventional grading sysytem or if pre-med and "pre-law students 
continue to demand grades as their just reward for academic achievement. 
We will be reverting to a system which, although perhaps tried and 
considered true, offers merely subjective evaluation under the guise of 
objective standards. We will be cheating students, faculty and whoever is 
using the grades to determine competence because we will be using a 
meaningless and arbitrary standard.
The class of 13 will be the first to graduate from CMU under the 
H/C/NE system. Some will be rejected from grad schoold and choose to 
blame the grading system. Those who are accepted will quickly forget all 
the hassles we have had here. Can we allow our college to be defined for 
the convenience of those who pain to enter the competitive market for 
grad school acceptances? I think not.
Letters:
(Ed. note: In response to Roni Harris-)
Dear Miss Harris:
I should like to acknowledge receipt of 
your letter announcing Panhellenics en
dorsement of the procurement of a gyn
ecologist as a part of the Universitys 
Health Service program.
You understand that there are several 
problems and some very real cost consid
erations which have to be examined very 
carefully.
I also appreciate your naming stu
dents who would be willing to serve on a 
committee for investigation and selection 
of a gynecologist. I should be happy to 
consider them for inclusion in such a 
committee when it is appropriate to con
vene it.
Earle R. Swank 
Dean of Student Affairs
Editor:
The negative check-off system proposed 
by PIRG, if adopted, could provide many 
organizations the impetus they need to 
obtain direct student financial cujport. 
The Activities Board has long been 
considering offering discount season tickets 
for films, concerts, and other paid AB 
events. Having a negative check-off, refund 
system would almost insure the success of 
season ticket sales and certainly, for 
example, simplify the selling of Film Arts 
Society Tickets.
But more important is the opportunity 
this system would give us to create a REAL 
social conscience at CMLT Why stop with 
PIRG? Certainly, through the Amanda 
Manga Yoga Society, a negative check-off 
could be indicated to procure funds for 
Bangladesh relief. This type of system 
could definitely facilitate collection by 
worthwhile organizations such as the Uni
ted Fund, Red Cross, March of Dimes, etc., 
and give students a chance not only to have 
a social conscience but also to determine 
its direction.
In fact, maybe the administration could 
divide the tuition bill in two parts, having 
an entire sheet separate on which students 
could check-off which of many worthwhile 
organizations, funds, and activities he wish
es to support. Maybe the administration 
could even open a new office through the 
cashier to simplify this collection proced
ure.
Bill Iacono 
Director, Activities Board
Editor:
I was much interested in Nestle: More 
than a Candy Company. (Feb. 22 TAR
TAN). While I am hesitant of backing peo
ple unwilling to suffer the pains of striking 
themselves, I was entranced by the fact 
that Nestle is the worlds third largest 
packaged food distributor, and along with 
the Unilevers Co., controls 100% of the 
packaged food market in much of Europe.
Any company with such a stranglehold 
on such a necessary economic market is 
bound to be a good investment. How can I 
buy their stocks?
Alexander Riddel III
Editor:
After reading the results of the original 
survey of alumni it becomes obvious why 
the University questioned the alumni in
stead of the students about issues which 
mainly affect students. The surveys were 
coded so as to divide the respondees into 
givers and non-givers. Possibly the Un
iversity is just trying to determine how 
their decisions and the students actions 
have affected and will affect the voluntary 
contributions of the alumni. They want to 
know how they can make decisions and/or 
improve public relations to protect this 
source of University income.
Stephen O. Lee
(Ed. note: The following is a copy of a 
letter sent to Dr. Schatz.)
Dear Sir:
It is becoming increasingly difficult to 
attract enthusiastic and capable individuals 
to serve in extracurricular positions that 
are not generally considered appropriate, 
but ofter considered as a significant con
tribution to the individuals development 
and the campus community. The CMU 
Student Government wishes to endorse, en
courage and participate in the consider
ation of the proposal for credit for extracurricualr activities, now before the Ed
ucational Policy Council.
Recent experience indicates that there is 
often insufficient manpower to aduquately 
fulfill the goals of several major student 
activities. Academic and worthwhile extra
curricular responsibilities compete for the 
students time-to the detriment of both. As 
a result, available manpower is further re
duced, as is the number of aspirants for 
important positions of leadership.
Student Government views credit for 
extracurricular activities not as an in
ducement to drop a course and join a 
club but as removing a major abstacle to 
adequate participation in certain vital pos
itions. On an individual basis, the student 
involved should be able to show cause why 
his particular activity merits academic 
credit. Since many such activities do not 
correspond to existing departmental 
courses of study, provisions will have to be 
made for an evaluation procedure commen
surate with the goals and possible abuses of 
the proposed concept. This idea has been 
implemented before, so previous ex
perience can be drawn upon.
The thoughts contained in this letter are 
intended to convey the sense of the Sen
ate emerging from the discussion of the 
proposal at its February 7 meeting. The 
Senate has authorized my committee to 
assemble the views expressed at the meet
ing, and send them in letter form th your 
committee without delay.
The views here are intentionally general 
in nature, because acceptance of the pro
posal must proceed formulation of detailed 
provisions. Student Senate looks forward 
to its role in the examination and refine
ment of this proposal, and to the solution 
of a major pfoblem involving key extra
curricular activities.
Jon D. Fricker 
Chairman, Rules Committee

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, March 7, 1972The TartanPage 3
Announcements:
Editor:
Why is it that the news media on this 
campus will publicize meetings ranging in 
variety from the astronomy club to the 
navel contemplation society, but cannot 
find space to publish the dates for college 
council, faculty senate, or board of trustees 
meetings? Maybe we elected representa
tives to attend these meetings, but the only 
ones who ever hear about the goings-on at 
these summit conferences are the student, 
faculty and administration representatives 
at those meetings. My next question is-does 
anybody know who these people are?
My point is this we have a weekly 
newspaper and campus calendar- how about using them to let the compus com
munity in on the activities at these meet
ings. Publish the dates and minutes of each 
college council (CIT, MIS, H&SS, FA) 
meeting, each faculty senate meeting and 
each board of trustees meeting.
What have they got to hide? I think 
there is much to be gained.
Michael M. Stevens
Editor:
I am currently living in a Donner Hall 
double room as a single. This is because my 
roommate moved to a single a month and a 
half ago. I received a notice from the Hous
ing Office stating that a 50 dollar charge is 
to be put on my ledger to remain in my 
room as a single. This notice also stated 
three other notices had been sent warning 
me of this impending news. My first com
plaint is, I received no notices prior to the 
one today. I called the Housing Office and 
they said the other notices had been sent 
out. It seems rather strange to me that 
these other notices were lost in the mail, 
yet this final notice managed to make it to 
me.
My second complaint is to the fact that 
Housing might make me move. I feel this is 
a breach of contract. The housing contract 
states The University may at any time 
change assignments of an accommodation 
when the University feels it to be necessary 
in serving the needs of the University and 
the Students. The question I ask is:What 
NEED will be served by moving me? It 
will definitely not serve my needs, for it is 
no easy task to move. I fail to see how it 
will serve the school, since the room must 
still be heated while it is empty. The maid 
service has been discontinued, so no time 
or money will be saved in this manner. The 
only need I see is the University wanting 
50 more dollars from me. They could care 
less about the Students needs. Will the 
school pay for the moving of my belong
ings? The answer is NO! I realize this clause 
was put in the contract for a good reason, 
but when the Spring semester is half over 
before they decide to send notices, I feel 
they are asking too much. I fail to see my 
moving as necessary in serving the needs 
of the University and the Students and 
hope that ;ome justice will prevail in this 
matter.
My final complaint is shared by students 
in the same situation, as there are many. 
Why should we pay 50 dollars, because our 
roommates moved out through no fault of 
our own? I realize this is in the contract, 
but I fail to see adequate justification. 
Maybe you can make it clearer to the peo
ple affected.
Harry Dodds 
239 Donner Hall?
The Book Store wilt not accept textbooks
for exchange or return after March 17. This 
applies only to books being purchased for 
the opening of the second half of the 
Spring semester. Books purchased in Jan
uary or February may not be returned be
cause of the two-week limit on returns. 
The Book Store return policy is posted in 
prominent places in the Book Store for 
your information. Unsold textbooks will 
be returned to the publishers beginning 
April 3. Please do not delay buying those 
you need for the completion of the term.
Dr. Phillip Koch, the chairman of the
department of French and Italian at Pitt 
will be coming to speak on the University 
of Pittsburgh's program abroad to Roven 
on March 8 at 7:00 p.m. in the Modern 
Languages Conference Room, BH 230.
Due to the demand for course number
51-157 - Photography, the Department of 
Design has established a reservation system, 
to prevent over subscription of this course 
during pre-registration. Reservations may 
be made starting the week of March 20th 
for fall semester 1972.
Photography 51-158 is an introductory 
level course and is open only to students 
pre-registered in department other than 
Architecture, Design, and Painting and 
Sculpture. There are two sections: C - Mon
day from 7:00 to 9:50 p.m. and D - Friday 
from 7:00 to 9:50 p.m.
From February 21 - March 9, paintings,
prints, and pots by William Libby and 
Wesley Mills will be on display in the Hew
lett Gallery.
The Chatham College Department of
Drama will present "The Killing of Sister 
George by Frank Marcus on Wednesday, 
March 8 through Monday, March 13. Per
formances will be held in the Drama Room 
in Fraun Hall at 8:15 pm except on Sun
day, March 12, when curtain will be at 
7:30 pm. The public is welcome. There is 
no admission charge. The production will 
be directed by Jerry Wenneker, Chairman 
of Chatham's Drama Department.
Professor R. Wissolik and Professor Charles
Logue of St. Vincent College, Latrobe, 
Penna., wish to announce plans for an East 
African Tour for this summer. The tour is 
open to any interested college or graduate 
school student. The tour will last from July
17 to August 28 and will cost $1,180. The 
total price includes the round trip fare, full 
room and board, tuition, a 10-day safari, 
and three nights in London. The tour will 
not only offer the student a very satisfying 
and enrichening personal experience, but 
also, the student may receive 4-8 graduate 
or undergraduate credits.
Some of the other activities being plan
ned by the tour leaders are visits to Olduvai 
Gorge, archaeological sites on the East 
African Coast, and game parks. If you are 
interested in this program and would like 
further information, please call or write: 
Professor Richard D. Wissolik 
English Department, or 
Professor Charles Logue 
Education Department 
St. Vincent College 
Latrobe, Penna. 15650 
539-9761 Code 412 Ext. 355
The Sixteenth Williamsburg International
Assembly for able foreign graduate stu
dents who are returning home before the 
beginning of the next academic year will be 
held this June 4-7 to discuss American Re
flections and Projections. The conference is 
designed as a terminal experience for about 
60 homeward bound students in advanced 
studies. Each delegate chosen will be a 
guest for housing and meals of the Colonial 
Williamsburg Foundation during the con
ference period. A limited number of travel 
grants are available. Application forms are 
available in the Office of the Foreign Stu
dent Adviser, Warner Hall 209. Deadline 
for receipt of applications in Williamsburg 
is March 31.
In the past only students enrolled in the 4
year ROTC program were permitted to 
compete for ROTC scholarships. Public 
Law 92-166, which was signed by the Pres
ident on November 24, 1971, authorized 
an increase in the number of Army ROTC 
scholarships from 5500 to 6500 and auth
orized up to 20% of these to be used in the
2 year ROTC program. Graduate or under
graduate students having 2 years of study 
remaining are now eligible to apply for the
2 year ROTC program and a 2 year scholar
ship which provides for full tuition, fees, 
books, and a non-taxable $100 per month 
subsistence allowance during the academic 
year. The program also provides for draft 
deferment until completion of the cadets 
program of study.
Winners of the 1972 two year scholar
ship competition will be announced prior 
to the start of the Fall 72 semester. For 
more information contact Gerald Olney at 
CMU, extension 281 or 282.
If you are tired of hiding your best writing
in a desk drawer, TWO HANDS is offering 
you a chance to see your work in print. 
TWO HANDS is CMUs new student pub
lication, devoted to the poetry and fiction 
of CMU students, and will be sola through
out the Pittsburgh area. Send your poems 
and fiction to
TWO HANDS 
Department of English 
Baker Hall
Material will be returned if a self-addressed 
envelope is enclosed.
Cedar Point's Live Entertainment Depart
ment will conduct college auditions on Fri
day, April 14 at CMU to fill positions for 
the Point's unique free entertainment pro
gram. Tryouts are scheduled for 3:00 pm. 
in the Wherrett Room.
At the present, the entertainment pro
gram does not include openings for Hard 
Rock or Soul groups, but singers, dancers, 
musicians, and novelty acts of any variety 
will be considered. Anyone interested in 
Wardrobe, Stage Managing, etc., is also en
couraged to attend for an interview.
Interviews will also be held, beginning at 
1:00 pm. for the Cedar Point Courtesy 
Corps. This highly selective organization is 
open to any college coed with a high schol
astic rating, a well-groomed appearance, 
and a sincere desire to greet and serve Ce
dar Point guests with a smile.
Those selected to entertain for the sea
son or serve as members of the Courtesy 
Corps are able to earn a substantial portion 
of their college expenses while gaining pro
fessional experience.
For additional information and a listing 
of other audition stops, please write: Live 
Show Department, Cedar Point, Inc., San
dusky, Ohio 44870.
Israel Day, featuring Israeli singers, food,
arts, crafts,films, and displays, will take 
place on Wednesday, March 15 from noon 
to 9:00 PM at the University of Pittsburgh. 
Students from all area colleges and the 
community are invited to this event which 
is sponsored by Students for Israel. The 
Israeli singers, who are from the Jezreel 
Valley in northern Israel, are part of 
"Kibbutz Karavan." They are traveling to 
campuses throughout this country with 
their songs, portable exhibits, literature, 
audio-visuals, and the opportunity to meet 
firsthand with American students.
Israel Day visitors will be able to enjoy 
pitta (round bread) and falafel (fried chick 
pea balls). Together, they equal the 
American hamburger.
Karavan members will perform twice at 
Pitt's Student Union, at noon and 8:00 PM 
and once at CMU Wherret Room, at 2:30 
PM. Admission is free.
A round trip air ticket to Israel will be 
raf I led off at $2.50 a chance. All donations 
will go to the Israel Emergency Fund.
jThe Activities Board Film committee will
meet Tuesday March 7th at 7:00 PM in 
Room 33 Skibo. Anyone wishing to 
become involved is urged to attend.
The Honorable Michael B. Yeats, chairman
of the Irish Senate and son of poet William 
Butler Yeats, will speak at Chatham 
College on ''Ireland: Past, Present and 
Future on Wednesday, March 8 at 8 PM in 
the Chapel.
Accompanying Senator Yeats will be his 
wife, Grainne, a harpist and singer who will 
give a concert at 4 PM on Wednesday, 
March 8 in the Chatham Music Center. 
Senator Yeats will also speak at 11 AM, 
Thursday, March 9 in Coolidge Hall, Room 
135 on "W.B.Yeats: The Public Man. All 
event are open to the public without 
charge.
A program entitled "Human Homosexual
ity will be presented at University of 
Pittsburgh on Monday, March 13th. The 
program beginning at 12 noon, and repeat
ed in the evening at 7:30, will consist of 
two films and speakers on homosexuality 
and lesbianism. Jack Baker, the President 
of the student body at the University of 
Minnesota who ran on a "gay ticket" will 
speak, along with Barabra Love and Sidney 
Abott, two lesbians. The films to be shown 
are "I Don't Know" and "Consenting 
Adults." The program will be held in the 
Pitt Student Union Ballroom, and ad
mission is free.
An all day symposium on birth control and
abortion entitled 1972: A Sexual Odssey 
will be held at the university of Pittsburgh 
on Wednesday, March 8, 1972, beginning 
at 10:00 a.m. in the Student Union Ball
room (the old Schenley Hotel).

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4-The Tartan-Tuesday, March 7, 1972
Massachusetts State Scholarship Applica
tions for 1972-73. The Financial Aid Off
ice has ordered a supply of the above forms 
to be used by students from Massachusetts 
who have not previously had a Massachu
setts state scholarship. These application 
blanks are expected in the Financial Aid 
Office about March 15, and must be filed 
by April 1.
PLEASE NOTE: this form is for new 
upperclass applicants only. The 1971-72 
recipients will receive their Renewal Appli
cation at their home mailing address.
New Paintings by William Fairman, A One
Man Show, is the featured exhibit for 
March in the Ivy Gallery of the Ivy School 
of Art. This young painter received a Nat
ional Award from the Carnegie Institute in 
1957, and later received Merit Awards in 
painting and graphics from the Associated 
Artists of Pittsburgh. In 1967, he earned 
the Katz Foundation Award for Painting. 
The New Paintings will be on exhibit 
March 4 through March 31. The Ivy Gal
lery is open 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily, Monday 
through Saturday, and is located at 207 
Market Street, Downtown Pittsburgh.
Candidate for U.S. Congress, Doug Walgren
will speak Wednesday, March 8, at 12 noon 
until 2 p.m. in Room 524, Pitt Student 
Union. Sponsored by College Young Dem
ocrats. For information call 341-2839.
See Breathing Together: The Revolution
Electric Family at Pitt, Benedum Hall on 
Tuesday, March 7 at 8 p.m. A film by 
Morley Markson, featuring the epic utter
ances of: Alan Ginsberg, John Sinclair, 
Jerry Rubin, Fred Hampton, John Lennon, 
Tim Leary, William Kunstler, Buckminster 
Fuller and many other 1970 liberals. Ad
mission is free.
Classified Ads:
WANTED: Bass/Lead Guitar Players, all 
types rock, capable sing lead. Call 
655-3835.
FOR SALE: Kenwood stereo receiver, 
Dual 1019 changer, Shure V-15 Cartridge. 
Call S. Leinhardt, ext. 118.
Spare time modeling assignments available
in promotional, fashion, and photographic 
areas. Experience unnecessary. Top sal
aries. Write A&R Associates, Box 7220 
Oakland Station, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213.
Compact refrigerators, bicycles (folding),
sewing machines, typewriters, and desks 
for rent. Call 279-7951 after 6 pm.
Big Brother needed for 5 yr. old boy. M.
Watson x. 248.
Teac A 1200U Tape Deck, $150.00; Dynaco Pat-4 Preamp, $80.00; Sony PS-1800 
Manual T.T. $150.00; call Ken Greer,
421-9481, after 6.
Personals:
S.J.K.: Teezabeezitheezha love you!
signed Speezot
Youre eyes are as blue as Long Island 
Sound. Youre nose is not like your 
fathers. Youre hands are strong enough 
to... and I love you. EE
JOIN THE FREE MEXICAN AIRFORCE. 
See your campus coordinator for details.
films
CAMPUS
WILD STRAWBERRIES. Directed by Ing
mar Bergman. Film Arts Society. Thurs
day, March 9. Porter Hall 100. 4:30, 7:00, 
9:30 pm. Admission: Film Arts Ticket.
DUCK SOUP and HORSEFEATHERS. 
Starring The Marx Brothers. Activities 
Board. Thursday, March 9 in Doherty Hall 
2210 and Friday, March 10 in Porter Hall 
100. ,6:30, 9:30 pm. Admission: $.50 with 
AB Film Card.
COCONUTS and MONKEY BUSINESS. 
Starring The Marx Brothers. Activities 
Board. Saturday, March 11 and Sunday, 
March 12. Porter Hall 100. 6:30,9:30 pm. 
Admission: $.50 with AB Film Card.
ONE, TWO, THREE. MDC. Saturday, 
March 11. Doherty Hall 2210. 5:30, 8:00, 
10:30 pm. Free.
CHATHAM
YANCO. Chatham Film Society. Monday, 
March 13. Chatham Chapel. 8:30 pm. Ad
mission: $.501.00.
PITT
BREATHING TOGETHER and REVOLU
TION OF THE ELECTRIC FAMILY. 
Pangborn Film Club. Tuesday, March 7. 
Benedum Auditorium. 8:00 pm. Free.
SPRING FRAGRANCE. U.C.I.S. Wednes
day, March 8. 120 Common Facilities. 
8:30 pm. Free.
SMILES OF A SUMMER NIGHT. Pangborn Film Club. Thursday, March 9. 120 
Common Facilities. 8:15 pm. Admission: 
$.50.
CANDY and MYRA BRECKENRIDGE. 
Special Programs. Friday, March 10. 120 
Common Facilities. 7:00 pm. Free.
THE BIG SLEEP, TREASURE OF THE 
SIERRA MADRE, THE MALTESE FAL
CON, THE CAINE MUTINY and THE AF
RICAN QUEEN. Starring Humphrey Bo
gart. Pangborn Film Club. Saturday, March
1.1. 120 Common Facilities. 6:00 pm. Ad
mission $.75.
COMMUNITY
INDEPENDENT FILM MAKER-JOYCE 
WIELAND. Carnegie Lecture Hall. Wednes-I 
day, March 8. 8:30 pm. Admission: $1.00.1
INTERNATIONAL HOUSE. Starring W.C. 
Fields. Oakland Co-op. Friday, March 10.1 
7:00, 9:00 pm. Admission: $1.00. I
TELEVISION
RULES OF THE GAME. Directed by Jean 
Renoir. Friday, March 10. 8:30 pm. Chan
nel 16 and Saturday, March 11. 8:00 pm. 
Channel 13.
SERGEANT MURPHY. Starring Ronald 
Reagan. Friday, March 10. 1:30 am. Chan
nel 2.
ONE FATAL HOUR. Starring Humphrey 
Bogart. Saturday, March 11. Following 
11:30 movie. Channel 2.
SPRINGRECORDSALEH!
Hundreds off Records
Large Selection of Glassies
I.98 uptoI.9
Sale starts Wed, March 8 
C. M. U. BOOKSTORE
.v.o CO e c0
8upf^$' p,"ae 'jOu
rC1  MC
>o' c
v>,c9 frc >e\oN 
nfcv> c ,roV^ <"c 'J ,o\\eC'\ , co'v
, V? '
'
Discover the World on Your
SEMESTER AT SEA
Sails each September & February
Combine accredited study with 
educational stops in Africa, Aus
tralasia and the Orient. Over 5000 
| students from 450 campuses have 
$ already experienced this interna
tional program. A wide range of 
financial aid is available. Write 
now for free catalog:
WCA, Chapman College, Box CC12, Orange, Cal. 92666

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, March 7, 1972-The Tartan-Page 5
McCurdy FOOD
Robert W. McCurdy, Director of Stu
dent Activities at Carnegie-Mellon Uni
versity has been elected Chairman of the 
Board of Directors of the National Enter
tainment Conference during its annual 
Convention in Kansas City. McCurdy has 
served on the Board of Directors for the 
past three years including one year terms as 
Chairman of the Development Committee 
and First Vice-Chairman of the Board.
The National Entertainment Conference 
(NEC) is the largest staff-student organiza
tion of its kind. Organized to improve stu
dent activity programming on college and 
university campuses, the NEC has over six 
hundred member institutions and nearly 
three hundred associate members or repre
sentatives from the entertainment industry. 
The broad educational program of the NEC 
deals in the program areas of: Popular mus
ic, student travel, lectures, classical arts, 
theatre, film and arts and exhibits.
Mr. McCurdy received his Bachelors de
gree in Pharmacy at Ohio Northern Uni
versity and his Masters in Counseling and 
Guidance from the University of Hartford. 
He is in his forth year as Director of Stu
dent Activities at CMU. Active in com
munity affairs, he serves on the Board of 
Directors of the Loaves and Fishes Mini
stries in Pittsburgh and as Commissioner of 
the Western Pennsylvania Club Inter
collegiate Hockey Association. He is 
married and the father on one boy.
WOMEN
Womens Services, incorporated in New 
York in 1970, is a non-profit, out-patient 
health care facility for birth control coun
selling and abortions. The clinic offers ex
tensive counselling and follow up care to 
abortion patients.
Located at 424 E. 62 St. in New York 
City, W.S. is run by a noted gynecologist 
and a staff of 33 certified specialists and 
60 nurses. Womens Services begins by pro
viding orientation interviews, including an 
explanation of the suction curettage pro
cess.
After the actual operation, patients re
main in a recovery room for about three 
hours. Here, a patient will complete re
cords which provide statistical information 
to City Health Departments and the Na
tional Joint Program for the Study of AbortionTA hotline is open 2% hours a* 
day to provide information or, if necessary, 
emergency care after the patient leaves the 
clinic. *
Patients are scheduled Monday through 
Saturday, 8 am. to 8 pm. The maximum 
fee for the abortion is $125, which is ad
justable for women on welfare, of at the 
recommendation of the referring agency. 
Additionally, the clinic has been ruled eli
gible for Medicaid reimbursement.
Further information is available by cal
ling 212-758-7310 during the above men
tioned business hours.
SCOTTY'S
3911 FORBES AVINUC 
791 PENN AVENUE 
oikl ROUTE t, 
NORTH Of ETNA
OPEN TO SERVE YOU 24 HOVKS A DAY
Between Classes 
or at Study Break
Marcy Urban 
Stephen Singer
Student budgets usually do not include 
copious entertainment funds for dining 
out, and if your tastebuds are restless for 
something different Chinese food may be 
your cup of tea. If you are ambitious as 
well as hungry, here is a traditional Chinese 
dish cooked in jone skillet (simple enough 
for a hot-plate) with minimal time and 
effort.
Sweet n Sour Spareribs 
1 lb. spareribs (beef or pork)
oil for frying
1 medium can pineapply chunks
2 small carrots, sliced (opt.)
1 green pepper, sliced (opt.)
3-4 sweet pickles, sliced (opt.)
1 tbsp. cornstarch
2 tbsp. brown sugar 
2-3 tbsp. soy sauce 
2-3 tbsp. vinegar
Ask the butcher to cut the spareribs across 
the bond to form 1 1/2 strips (Kroger and 
Giant Eagle will gladly do this). Then cut 
the meat along the bone to form small 
bitesize pieces. Put cooking oil in large 
skillet and fry meat about 10-15 minutes 
(till done). Set meat aside on separate 
plate. Drain oil from skillet. Drain pine
apple chunks and pour juice into the skil
let. Place carrots, pepper and pickles in
pan. Simmer vegetables in pineabpple juice 
for 5 minutes. Add soy sauce, brown sugar, 
and vinegar. Stir. Sprinkle corn starch into 
mixture and simmer 2 minutes. Add 
cooked spareribs and cook over medium 
heat for 5 minutes. Sauce should be the 
thickness of gravy. If too thick, add some 
water. If too thin, add a pinch of corn
starch (danger: an excess of cornstarch 
may have disastrous effects). Add pine
apple chunks. Cook for 1 minute more. 
Serve over boiled rice. Makes 3 hefty serv
ings.
If this culinary effort fails (or you hate 
to cook) two favorite establishments in this 
area serving authentic Chinese fare are 
Charles Ungs (East Liberty Mall) for Can
tonese food and Peking Kitchen (Murray 
Ave.-Squirrel Hill) for Mandarin style. 
There is also a rumor that Chinatown Inn 
(downtown Pittsburgh) has sea bass around 
Chinese New Year. Enjoy.
SUMMER JOBS
Guys & Gals needed for summer 
employment at numerous loca
tions throughout the nation in
cluding National Parks, Resort 
Areas, and Private Camps. For 
free information send self-addressed, STAMPED envelope to 
Opportunity Research, Dept 
SJO, Century Bldg., Poison, MT 
59860. APPLICANTS MUST 
APPLY EARLY...
Campus Camera Headquarters
FOR ALL YOUR 
PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS
WE RENT AND 
REPAIR TYPEWRITERS
CAMERA EXCHANGE
3711 FORBES AVENUE
:Student Discount on Most Items: 
Phone: 683-2181
FOR FREE
Prugnancy 
CpunsulingInPITTSBURGH
CoH
422-7900
Women's Medical Assistance
a non-profit organization
FREE PROFESSIONAL 
DRAF8 COUNSELING
B'NAI B'RITH HILLEL FOUNDATION 
315 South Sllfold Avwu*
3rd Floor
Every Tuesday Evening
7:00 to 9:00 p.m.
621-8875
DICTIONARIES 
WEBSTER
Library sizu, 1.71 uditipn, brand 
nuw, still in bpx. Cpst nuw: $45.00.
Will Seil for $ 15
Deduct >0% on orders of 6 or more. 
Meif to
NORTH AMERICAN 
LIQUIDATORS
1450 Nioftor FHs Bird.
Tow wo wd a. New York 14150
COO orders enclose SI. 00 good will 
deposit. Pay balance plus COO ship
ping on delivery. Be satisfied on inspec
tion or return within 10 days tor full 
refund. No dealers, eoch volume speci
fically stamped not for resale.
Pleose add % I 25 postoge and hondlihg 
New York State residents odd applicable 
soles tax.
COMING MARCH 30t*rTHE STUPENDOUS REINDARNATION
OF THE OAKLAND 
CO-OP CAMPING DEPARTMENT
MEANWHILE, we're still selling the 
lowest priced clothing, art supplies, 
hiking boots, tires/ natural foods, 
records, grains ... IN THIS TOWN!
WINTER CLOSEOUT IN FOOTWEAR 
50% OfF 
BLVD. of ALLIES and WARD STREET
OPEN:-11-8, Mon.-Fri.i 10-6 Sat.
StereoTapeSales
NATIONAL DISTRIBUTOR NEEDS 
SCHOOL COVERAGE 
Top 508 Track Tapes 
WHOLESALE PRICES
large earnings  no investment
CONTACT
MR. H. HARRIS
Lake Erie International, Inc.
3441 Wst Brainard Road 
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44122
Howthey 
marriedwithouta 
minister
He stood with her in an ex
pecting silence. His hand 
then reached for hers, and 
they said in turn, .. . I take 
thee . . .No organ pealed 
forth, no minister spoke. But, 
in the regathered quiet, one 
who had come to witness 
rose, and spoke of fidelity 
and responsibility and the 
love that gives life. And 
though a traditional cere
mony seemed to be missing, 
the two became one in Gods 
presence, which alone makes 
any marriage sacred.
The bride was lovely...
even in a simple gown. The 
wedding required no cere
monials, no formal blessing. 
For to Quakers a ritual or 
person who intercedes be
tween man and his God is 
unnecessary. No one day of 
the week is holier than any 
other. And all acts are equally 
sacred because we live always 
in the presence of God.
Do you find that the essen
tials of your religious life seem 
to be obscured? Could an ap
proach without dogma or for
mula be a sensible one for you? 
If so, we have some free and 
quite readable leaflets which 
well gladly send.
SOCIETY OF FRIENDS 
4836 EH*worth Ave., Dept. No. 315 
Pittsburgh Pa. 15213
Please send ? tree literature ? location of nearest Friends Meeting House. I understand no one will call.
TMENDS
GENERAL 
CONFERENCE

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The Tartan-Tuesday, March 7, 1972
SHAWN PHILLIPS
It is really a theatrical thing, 
concentrating on just one side of some
ones make-up-love, hate, fear, desire-exaggerating it until it assumes a quite dispro
portionate importance. This is the way 
most art works on the people who ex
perience it-whether it is music, poetry, 
films, paintings or whatever-and it is ex
tremely effective.
It is also the way images get built: if a 
band goes for a gut and groin reaction-then 
they get known in that context. Sex and 
guts are what they are all about.
But A&M Records Shawn Phillips mu
sic is not like that, and it is certainly not so 
easy to identify with. While each song-or a 
part of each song-obviously focuses on 
something, the subject of the song is only a 
focal point for a much wider range of ele
ments in the music. The effect of the music 
is diffuse, less clearly defined, and it tends 
not to concentrate its effect on any one 
aspect of your personality.
I think my music contains elements of 
every kind of fundamental music that ex
ists on the western music. he said recent
ly, and added that there were eastern influ
ences as well: Ive been playing the si tar 
for 12 years but although I do use the 
three basic movements of classical Indian 
music when I play, I dont attempt to 
follow the techniques Indian classical play
ers use, because I am not an Indian and I 
have never been to India. I just play what 
happens.
He did meet Ravi Shankar once though, 
and learnt a lot of basic knowledge of the 
instrument from him.
Shawn Phillips will tak at length about 
the theories behind his music, the tech
niques he uses, but it is not the technique, 
but the effect that really matters.
He is interested in the effect of sound 
when it is pushed to the limits of human 
hearing-either very low or very high. At 
thos extremes and beyond, the sound 
works more as a sensation, an intangible 
feeling, than as a direct force-at a very high 
level, it tends to put people on edge, make 
them very nervous and at a low level it is 
very soothing.
He sees studio techniques as a means to 
an end rather than as an end in themselves 
as they often become in the hands of some 
producers. For instance, he might record 
an instrumental track, flip the tape over, 
play it back on a different speed so that it 
is exactly an octave lower, and improvise 
the next track over it. Of course this has 
been done before, he said, but it has 
usually been done purely as a technical 
device. Im not interested in the technique 
itself, but in the total effect of the music.
He started playing guitar seriously in Ft. 
Worth, Texas, playing local hotspots and 
backing people like Jimmy Reed when 
they played there. Then he moved out to 
California, and started to get interested in 
the contemporary folk scene along with 
people like Barry McGuire (remember Eve 
of Destruction) and Tim Hardin.
One day Tim said Lets go to New 
York, I said OK, we jumped in a car and 
went, just like that.
Once in New York, he headed for the 
Village and got a job washing dishes in the 
Night Owl. They used to have guys come 
in and sing there, so I eventually persuaded 
the guy who was running the place to let 
me play, and then he gave me a regular 
spot there. 1 used to get ten dollars a night, 
singing up there and in time 1 got to sing at 
most of the clubs and cafes around the 
Village.
That was around the time when people 
like John Sebastian and Jim McGuinn were 
doing the same thing: It was an unbelieveable time. The best thing was when I did 
the opening night of the Cafe A Go Go 
with Lenny Bruce.
Then he got an agent and all that 
scene and travelled all over the States 
playing clubs: I just have played just 
about every class A club in the United 
States. In England, on his way to India 
though he never got there, he met someone 
from Columbia records and did two albums 
of contemporary folk music for them, 
and acted in and wrote the music for a film 
called Run with the Wind. He played the 
part of a folksinger which wasnt too tax
ing.
That was about five years ago. He then 
spent some time with Donovan in Mexico 
around the time Sunshine Superman was 
being conceived.
Shawn says that his music really came 
together during that time in Mexico and 
then he met a producer called Jonathan 
Weston, with whom he decided to record 
three albums covering a whole spectrum of 
the music he played, from songs to a semi 
classical piece using hand-picked members 
of the London Philharmonic Orchestra. 
This section he says is a Kind of parallel 
with Peter and the Wolf, but about nine 
times the intensity.
The trilogy was recorded for A&M-it 
took five and a half years to create, one 
and a half to record-and among the 
people on those sessions were steve Winwood, Paul Buckmaster, Jim Capaldi, Poli 
Palmer, Wynder K. Frog, Remi Kebaka, 
and Bruce Rowland (of the Grease Band).
But the record company decided not to 
release it-someone somewhere along the 
line decided the idea of releasing all three 
albums was unrealistic-so they took the 
songs out of the complete work, and put 
them on an album. Contribution was the 
result.
Contribution II followed almost seven 
months later, and met with an excellent 
critical reception. Close on the heels of its 
release Shawn came to the US for his first 
tour, and scored accolades in all the cities 
that he played.
Then it was back to England and pro
ducer Jonathan Weston to record his third 
album for the label, Collaboration, which is 
in release.
Shawn Phillips will be here this Friday, 
March 10 in the Ballroom.
JAN IS IAN
MARCH 10
an
Proffessionalism-the quality that enve
lopes a performer like a cloak worn by a 
queen. The quality that can reach out and 
hold or reach out-and touch. Its the 
quality that Janis Ian has and uses. The 
quality that makes her the dynamic per
former she is.
You arent born with proressionalism; 
you earn it, and Janis Ian has. She was 
raised in thirteen different places around 
New Jersey and New York and grew up 
despising school until she left in October of 
eleventh grade.
The biggest moment in my life was the 
sudden realization, on my last day of 
school, that if I left, the walls wouldnt fall 
in on me with God declaring Armaged
don. Janis went to New Yorks High 
School of Music and Art, which she de
scribes as a place where both students and 
teachers beat creativity out of you. She 
had already been writing songs and it was 
while she was at that school, where most 
of the teachers were frustrated musicians, 
that fame hit Janis Ian right in the face. 
Fame, of course, being Societys Child. 
At first she really loved performing 
but, all of a sudden I looked around one 
day and there was this audience. A lot of 
them were really good people who werent 
fulfilling themselves because they had me; 
a lot of them were people who wouldve 
like to cut me up in little pieces and take 
me home for souvenirs. And it was so un
believably sick-to want to perform and to 
glory in applause like that was so sick-as 
opposed to wanting to make music-it really 
freaked me out for a long time. Plus the 
fact that I was making all this bread and 
here I was sixteen years old and giving it all 
away because I felt guilty about having it. 
It was a sickness. It was a thing I had to go 
through in order to become a decent artist. 
I dont think Ill dislike performing now, 
but Ill never get the junkie rush I used to 
get from it.
She doesnt. I saw her last fall at the 
NY-NJ NEC convention. It was literally a 
privelege to listen to her perform. She was 
a part of a thing called a Showcase 
where nineteen performer each had twenty 
minutes to play. In that short time she 
grabbed the audience and held them tight, 
taking them on a journey of experiences 
through her mind. One could feel what she 
sang. Her voice was clear and sparkling and 
her stage presence was-well, just that, a 
presence, a feeling, a knowing.
In concert Janis Ian plays guitar and 
piano and is backed up by a drummer and 
bass player. Her songs are three dimensional-you can see them, can almost touch 
them. She paints pictures of life with songs 
of love and songs of forty-second street.
Janis Ian is phenomenal!
Janis Ian will be performing in Skibo 
Ballroom on Saturday, March 11th at 8:30 
PM. Tickets are $1.50 with an ID and an 
AB film card or $2.25 if you also purchase 
a Shawn Phillips ticket, saving 75 cents.
presentation
MARCH It
BIG ZIT
Julio Vera
If you were one of the over one thou
sand screaming fans who braved the ice and 
snow to get to the latest A.B. concert in 
the Skibo Ballroom you will remember 
that wild encounter with Zit Blemish and 
the Hot Rods. The group which spoofs the 
50s rock sound, has come a long way from 
its infant days at the Cats Cradle Coffee 
House. They have expanded and exploded 
into an all-out rock and roll-revival-review. 
Featuring an Elvis-like Glenn Super as Big 
Zit, renditioning I want you, I need you, I 
love you and Heartbreak Hotel and a 
host of greazer characters reminiscent of 
the high school chain gangs of that era give 
the show its unique appeal. Favorite among 
these was John Seeman whose cool and 
loose characterization was consistent, be
lievable and very greazy. Singing Little 
Honda and The Twist he had the aud
ience eating out of his hand. And when he 
drank a can of beer (most of it down his 
shirt) in five seconds the crowd roared. 
Jean Busada, the hottest of the Hot Rods, 
gave us a slick yet naive performance of 
My Boyfriends Back. Bill Graves gave us 
a rough smash up of Charlie Brown 
while Lane Ruoff beautifully crooned out 
Tell Laura I Love Her.
M.C. Davy The k and Reverend Parker 
(promoting and arousing), a tight back up 
band with Mitch Weissman, Tab BArber, 
and Carl Grefernelette, and a host of slip
pery, sunglass shaded ushers tied together 
the atmosphere and the show, everyone 
making it a very successful engagement.WAY
Julio Vera
The Main Stage production of the res
toration play Way of the World will have 
a benefit performance this Saturday, March
11, in honor of Richard Hughes, a 1966 
graduate of the Drama Department. Pro
ceeds from the $5.00 tickets will go entire
ly to The Shoeshine Boys Foundation. This 
voluntary organization, informally started 
by Hughes, is part of an effort to bring 
some security and love to the hundreds of 
homeless South Vietnamese boys who are 
the forgotten casualties of the war.
Hughes, whose story was recently fea
tured in LIFE, attended Boston University 
after getting his Bachelor of Fine Arts from 
CMU. After being denied C.O. status by 
the draft, he went to Vietnam as a correspondant for a Boston U. publication. 
There his attention was immediately drawn 
to the many wandering delinquents who 
roamed the streets of Saigon. He opened 
the doors of his house as a badly needed 
shelter for these boys and offered them the 
sincere love of a home. Overwhelming ac
ceptance on the part of the normally 
frightened and suspicious boys forced the 
expansion of the .project which now oper
ates five such houses in the area. Richard 
Hughes plans to return to the U.S. some
day but he has remained in Vietnam all 
these years to insure the projects success 
as a self-sustained entity.
The Shoeshine Boys Foundation is 
working towards that goal, and contribu
tions from the public are its only source of 
revenue. This is why the Drama Depart
ment felt that it was only fitting that Carnegie-Mellon put forth its share to help this 
deserving alumnus cause.
Tickets can be purchased from the Dra
ma Department office, FA 108. And, in 
case of a sell-out, private contributions will 
be accepted by the office or by The Shoeshice Boys Foundation, 522 Fifth Avenue, 
New York, N.Y. 10036.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, March 7, 1972-The Tartan-Page 7
HnSS GRADING SYSTEM EVALUATED
Reprinted from FOCUS,
a faculty publication.
The College of Humanities and Social 
Sciences Evaluation Committee on Grad
ing has completed a preliminary report 
which strongly indicates that the current 
system of grading in the collge is harming 
at least some, and maybe many, students 
applying for admission to graduate schools 
throughout the United States and Canada.
The committee was established in No
vember of 1971 and charged with the re
sponsibility of evaluating the present grad
ing system as it affects H&SS students 
while at CMU, and upon leaving.
Part of the report was compiled from 
data gathered through analysis of 118 re
plies from graduate schools in response to 
separate communications from the com
mittee Chairman R.G. Cassidy, assistant 
professor, and from Erwin R. Steinberg, 
H&SS dean. The letter to the schools de
scribed the current grading system and ask
ed whether or not such a system would be 
harmful, slightly prejudicial, or have no 
harmful effect on an applicants chances of 
admission.
Under the current grading system in 
H&SS, sophomores, juniors and seniors are 
graded honors, credit, or no entry. An 
honors grade is to be given only for excel
lent work; work which in the atandard 
grading system would clearly have received 
an A. Satisfactory work is now graded 
credit and work which would have recei
ved a D in standard systems is now graded 
no entry. The system has come under 
critical examination by both students and 
faculty in H&SS within the past few 
months with the major issue being whether 
it does or does not damage a students 
chances at graduate institutions.
The H/C/NE system was originally adopted because it was felt that it didnt 
contain the drawbacks of a pass/fail sys
tem, while providing some of the advanta
ges of both the ungraded system and one 
providing pseudo grades for those stu
dents seeking admission to graduate school. 
A survey of available studies on the subject 
indicated, for a variety of reasons, that 
there were insufficient experiences else
where for a decision here.
Thus, following analysis of some of the 
other studies done on the subject, the com
mittee initiated its own survey.
While the responses made it evident that 
those students receiving honors grades 
would not be harmed nearly as much as 
those receiving credit there were cases 
where the current grading system would be 
prejudicial even to the honors group, ac
cording to the responding institutions.
More than one of the respondees indica
ted that the credit or marginal student 
would be hurt primarily because the sys
tem does not, for example, allow for differ
entiation between B+ and C- work, which 
at least one institution felt is a distinguish
able mark between probably capable and 
probably not capable.
The selected graduate schools, for pur
poses of survey and analysis, were broken 
down into two categories: 1) Schools 
which rely heavily on student evaluations 
and standard graduate record examination 
tests, plus grading information in the ad
missions process. 2) Schools which do not 
use evaluations of standard tests and rely 
most heavily on traditional grades. Because 
of some differences in content of the let
ters sent to the selected graduate schools, 
analysis on the letter responses to the com
mittee were tabulated and categorized in 
one group, and those to Dean Steinberg in 
another.
Of those institutions in group one- hea
vy reliance on evaluation and tests, and less 
on grades- thirty-four said that the margin
al (credit) students chances would be har
med or slightly prejudiced by the current 
grading system, while nine said no harm 
would be done. In that same group, twelve 
ihstitutions responded that even the hon
ors students chances of acceptance would 
be damaged, at least slightly.
Among group two schools, thirty-two 
respondees said the current grading system 
would prejudice, to some degeee, a stud
ents opportunity for admission (20 of 
those stated it would be harmful), while 
only eleven felt no harm would be done. 
Fourteen institutions stated that even hon
ors students would be prejudiced to some 
degree, while twenty-nine thought the 
system would have no harmful effect of 
those students. *
Thus a great majority of the respondees 
(66 or 86) indicated that marginal students 
would be disadvantaged in applying for 
graduate school.
Even among honor students, 26 of 85 . 
institutions said the current system would 
have some detrimental effect on their ap
plications. Included among the institutions 
stating that even honor students would be 
harmed were the College of Arts and Sci
ences, New York University; University of 
California at Berkeley; the University of 
Chicage; Princeton University; Duke Law 
School; and the University of Pittsburgh 
Medical SchooL
Responses to Dean Steinbergs letter in
dicated similar although slightly more posi
tive attitudes. Sixteen of nineteen respon
dees in group one felt that credit stu
dents efforts would be harmed and eight 
of nine respondees in group two felt the 
same way. Only two of nineteen group one 
respondees saw harmful effects on honors 
students and one of nine group two respon
dees cited potential prejudice.
In addition to the categorization into 
group one and two, the group also divided 
the selected institutions on the basis of 
type of school: 1. Arts and Science 2. 
Business 3. Law 4. Medical 5. Non-specific 
(replies by deans without reference to a 
specific school) Response from these insti
tutions indicates that our students applying 
for admission would be most harmed in 
medical, law, and graduate schools in gen
eral, and least harmed in business schools 
and colleges of arts and sciences.
Another interesting and related part of 
the study revealed that 36% of the evalua
tions of students at CMU which are to be 
completed by faculty are not returned. 
This fact could cause the current system to 
be even more harmfil to the student apply
ing for advanced study.
Based on its findings the Committee will 
not currently recommend continuation of 
the present system, adoption of pass/fail or 
credit/no entry, or honors/credit/no entry 
over four years. Currently the majority of 
the group favors a four point letter grade 
system (no entry ofr failure) within hu
manities and social science college and de
partmental requirements, and a choice of 
honors/credit/no entry in all other courses. 
The opinion of the group on this subject, 
however, is not a unanimous one.
The committee is conducting a survey 
among H&SS students on their attitude 
towards the current grading system, and 
another among faculty, particularly on 
their attitude towards student evaluation 
forms. The group plans to postpone final 
recommendations to the H&SS College 
Council until this survey is completed and 
the questionnaries can be analyzed.
Members of ihe H&SS Evaluation Com
mittee on Grading were Professor Cassidu, 
Chairman, Erica Borden, assistant director, 
Admissions Office; Peter Georgiades, a 
psychology junior; Ellen Kerr, an English 
junior; James Qualben, instructor of histo
ry; and Austin Wriglft, professor of English.
IN THE HEART
OF THE BEAST
We offer a developmental alternative in undergraduate education for 
those who want to affect the structure and priorities of our society. 
Programs in the arts, communications, video, urban studies, social sci
ences, mental health, community development education, basic human 
problems, political sciences, law, environmental science, etc.
Our sliding scale tuition enables students to attend who might otherwise 
be unable to afford a quality education.
A concurrent work/study program helps students find meaningful jobs 
to support themselves and complement course work and individual and 
group projects.
We feel that college and universities must respond to the needs of the 
communities that surround them and not just to their own needs.
Our campus is located in three areas: Washington, Columbia and 
Baltimore
We are now considering applicants for summer and Fall, 1972.
Contact: Antioch College 
Anne Bernstein, Coordinator of Admissions 
805 N. Charles Street, Baltimore, Md. 21201 
Telephone: 301-752-3656

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8-The Tartan-Tuesday, March 7, 1972
McGovern
As a result of new procedures 
established by the Democratic Partys 
Reform Commission, a CMU woman 
student may be elected as a delegate to the 
Democratic National Convention in July, 
1972. She is Donna La Pietra, a senior in 
Social Relations. Donna is from Churchill 
Boro in the 44th Pennsylvania Senatorial 
District and would be a member of that 
Districts delegation if elected in the April 
25th primary.
Under the new procedure, registered 
Democrats voting in the Presidential 
primary in Pennsylvania will find several 
delgate nominees on the ballot Each 
delegate nominee will.be committed to one 
of the Democratic Presidential 
hopefuls-Chisolm, Humphrey, Jackson, 
Lindsay, McCarthy, McGovern, Muskie, 
and Wallace. Voters cast their ballots for 
those delegates committed to the 
Presidential candidate whom they prefer. 
The delegate nominess winning the most 
votes in each district will be those who 
actually represent the district. In previous 
years the delegates were simply chosen by 
the local party committee. Since the 
delegates elected under the new procedure 
are obligated to support the candidate to 
whom they are committed for at least the 
first ballot at the national convention, the 
typical registered Democrat has much more 
effect on the conventions out come.
Donna is running as a delegate com
mitted to George McGovern for President. 
She was selected to run in McGoverns be
half at a peoples mini-convention at
tended by some 200 McGovern supporters 
in the 44th District on January 24. Two 
other delegates were selected at that time 
along with an alternate delegate, giving 
McGovern a full slate of delegate nominees 
in that district.
George McGovern served as Chairman of 
the Comrfiission which established the new 
ground rules for running the Democratic 
Presidential nomination, reforms which 
were insisted upon by him and other 
Democrats after the 1968 National Con
vention in Chicago. Say Donna, I have 
had no previous Party involvement. It is 
the new rules which have made it realist
ically possible for someone like me to run 
as a delegate in the primary. However, the 
new rules do not stipulate the method by 
which each Presidential hopeful picks local 
delegates to represent her or him in the 
primary. The mini-convention idea is 
McGoverns method. The delegate nomi
nees for other Presidential hopefuls in my 
District were selected in more traditional 
ways. I find the competition pretty stiff. 
Muskie, for instance, has delegate nominees 
running who are well-known Democratic 
Pary people.
A common reaction to McGoverns can
didacy has been that he is a one issue 
candidate, that issue being the Vietnam 
War, and as such is not capable of winning. 
Therefore, why should one support him? 
Donna had her own reaction to this argu
ment, First of all, his image as a one issue 
candidate is simply not a valid one. He is 
the only candidate who has thoroughly 
documented positions on every conceivable 
issue relevant to this Presidential campaign. 
As Time magazine has said about him, he 
substitutes blueprints for the blurbs typical 
of most Presidential campaigns. Secondly, 
with regard to the he cant win, so why 
support him statement, it simply runs 
counter to my personal feelings aboutpolitical involvement. I support a candidate 
because I can believe in that person and 
identify with what that person wants to see 
happen once in office. I can believe in 
George McGovern and his views.
Moreoever, I feel that McGovern could 
win against Nixon if he is nominated. And 
even if he doesnt win the nomination, if 
he gathers enough delegate support going 
into the convention, he will be in a posi
tion to bargain for many of his views.
In her assessment of McGovern, Donna 
was not completely non-critical of her 
candidate, One thing McGovern lacks is 
that mysterious thing called Charisma. He 
comes across rather poorly from the po
dium. However, the substance of the man 
makes up for these shortcomings. His 
honesty and forthrightness are perhaps his 
most winning characteristics-that is besides 
his political views. He was the first candi
date to declare, doing so in January, 1971, 
without the usual denials of intention pre
ceding his announcement.
He said his delegates would be selected 
to represent a cross-section of the Demo
cratic Party and I feel I am proof of that. 
He insisted that his slate of delegates would 
be balanced by ago, sex, and race. The 
Allegheny County slate of which I am a 
part has 52 percent women, 24 percent, 
and 24 percent under the age of 25, match
ing up pretty closely with the general 
population of voters.
McGovern has also refused stringsattached money to finance his campaign, 
continued Donna. Sometimes this has 
been done to the detriment of his cam
paign indicating his commitment to his 
own principles rather than the do what
ever you must to win political credo. He 
has not gotten the big money needed to 
finance media coverage and recently the 
Florida campaign has run into great 
trouble, not even having enough funds for 
telephones.
George McGovern is presently a U.S 
senator from South dakota. He is perhaps 
best known as the first congressman to 
speak out against US involvement in Viet
nam, doing so on September 24, 2963. 
Since that time he has consistently led ef
forts in the Senate to end the war. Noted 
for liberal views, he has released several 
highly detailed plans for dealing with the 
nations problems since declaring his in
tention to run for the Democratic nomina
tion over a year ago. He hold a PhD in 
history and has written four books. Before 
serving in the Senate, he served two terms 
in the House of Representatives. He was 
the first Director of the Food for Peac 
Program. A supporter of Robert Kennedys 
bid for the Presidency in 1968, McGovern 
was a contender himself after Kennedys 
death.
Donna La Pietra came to CMU after 
graduating from Churchill area High 
School. She has involved herself in several 
activities on campus including the Y-Office 
of Community Affairs, the Activities 
Board, and the Commission on the Status 
and Needs of Women at CMU. She will 
graduate in May from the Social Relations 
Deaprtment.
LargeS
11 to 2 a.m. very day GINO and PETES
fglie Out Orders 4] ] South Craig St.  Oakland 
82-8691 Hoagies The biggest and busiest 
Pizzas Made to Order Pizza Parlor in OAKLAND!
Let's Get It Straight
WHO SAYS SO?
&(Ed.note Why should I believe in  God I cant see, just because some preacher tells me I should? What virtue is there in a faith like that?
:tdIEre Children believe in that fashion. My father says so is proof enough for them up to a certain age. Then they discover that Mom and Dad are not infallible, and they begin to ask questions. Though this is hard on parents, children must learn to think for themselves.
To believe merely on some-one elses say-so is not the basis of Christian faith, nor is that what gives it merit in Gods eyes. The Bible says that God has chosen to save through preaching those who are willing to believe. If and when any preacher proclaims the truth about God, then Gods own Holy Spirit speaks through him to those who have open hearts and minds.
If you will listen in that way to M man who faithfully preaches the Bible, God will speak through him to your heart The first thing His Holy Spirit will do is to convict you of being a sinner. Remember, it is no longer the preacher you are listen
ing to, but the voice of God in your soul
The second thing the Holy Spirit will show you is that you must accept Christs death as the basis for your salvation, that you must rely on His atonement for your sins. You are free to disbelieve any of man's remedies for sin, but when the Holy Spirit brings the truth home to your heart, you reject it at the cost of your own soul
On the other hand, if you believe in Christ as your Saviour, for time and for eternity, you are not being a credulous fool, but are exercising faith in the witness of Gods Holy Spirit to your own heart Then, and only then, is faith a virtue.
FOR MORE INFORMATION - CALL DAYTIME: 261-2233

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, March 7, 1972-The Tartan-Page 9
ARE YOU . . . Male, 21-30-yrs.? 
HEALTHY? 150-200 lbs.? NonSmoker? Interested rn earning 
extra money on weekends? . . .
IF YOU ANSWER "YES" to all of 
the foregoing questions and de
sire further information, please 
send name, address and tele
phone No. to:
BIODECISION LABORATORIES 
Hotel Webster Hall 
4415 Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213
cinderthistle 
hand knitting yarns
812 ivy street 
shadyside
burghs talent, facilities, surroundings and 
investment community can produce some
thing more than steel and coal,
While Living Dead was an exploita
tion film, aimed at a specific segment of 
the theatre-going public, Vanilla should 
have much broader audience.
Young people will readily identify 
with Chris and Lynn (Ray Laine and 
Judith Streiner) and their love, while their 
parents will empathize with Chris father, 
Roger Bradley (Roger McGovern), as he 
tries to understand his son. Theres a story 
to be told for both sides, the films di
rector said.
Mr. Romero revealed that even the 
sound track for Vanilla is local-rock mus
ic written and performed by the Barefoot 
in Athens group, plus electronic jazz writ
ten and performed by Steve Gorn, former
ly director of the Electronic Music depart
ment at Penn State University and major 
orchestration written and conducted by 
Jim Drako.
The film is very realistic because it was 
all filmed on located and the people are 
believeable. In a number of character parts, 
the actors merely had to be themselves, 
Mr. Romero said.
Local audiences will recognize many 
Pittsburgh locations, such as Schenley 
Park, the Civic Arena, South Parks Skybus, the Gateway Clipper and a downtown 
restaurant, while a few will recognize the 
offices of an advertising agency and an 
apartment complex. Of course, by the geo
graphy of the film South Park appears to 
be somewhere in Oakland.
I saw the film at a special screening on 
February 17th and was at times sui prised 
at the quality of the whole production and 
at times very disappointed. The screenplay 
is often incredibly trite. Ray Laine may or 
may not have done the best possible job 
with his lines, but his character comes off 
as missing comething very important.
The climax of the movie is done very 
well as the scene shifts back and forth 
between the girlfriend, who is getting an 
abortion, and the drifter, who doesnt 
know where she is and is thinking of leav
ing her. But the clsoing scene is simply 
horrendous. The girlfriend decides not to 
get the abortion and ends up living in 
suburbia with Mr. Dull and Straight. One 
day when she is very pregnant, she receives 
a package from the drifter. She and her 
husband take it out onto their suburban 
front lawn, open it, and three balloons 
drift out and go sailing off into the deep 
nauseating blue sky.
All in all, if you are familiar with Pitts
burgh, its an interesting film to see, and it 
holds your interest pretty well, but it 
wont win any academy awards.
Mr. Romero indicated that The Latent 
Image, Inc. now plans to produce a mini
mum of two feature films a year, and will 
continue to produce industrial films for 
training, sales promotion and public rela
tions, and TV commericals for local and 
national businesses.I
 Oakland Hardware 
& Toy Co.
CMUs Convenient Headquarters . 
for Hardware 
Desk Lamps  Key Service 
Artist Brushes  Hot Plates !
Poster Paints  School Supplies I
3606 Forbes Ave.  OAKLAND 
Phone 621-0923
IK HESSEL presents
CARERSH
ALWAYS VANILLA
lcti otnt fG sWdt,,, MWn hocfst fl 8f8GHl whlltny 
FILMED IN PITTSBURGH
Starring RAY LAINE, JUDITH STREINER, ROGER McGOVERN 
Produced by RUSSULL W. STREINER and JOHN A. RUSSO
 A LATENT IMAGE PRODUCTION SHADYSIDE
WALNUT STREET  MU. 2-1901
locally produced, the horror film Night of 
the Living Dead which has become a hor
ror classic and is still drawing large audi
ences in theatres throughout the world.
In producing these two films, and a 
third and fourth that are now underway, 
we have a dual objective, Mr. Romero 
said.
First, we want to prove that American 
film creativity is not limited to New York 
and Hollywood, and second, that PittsKIBBU8Z KAKAVAN
?
ISRAEL FOLK 
SINGING GROUP
Wednesday,
March 15, 1972 
2:30 p.m.
 ISRAEL DAY 
March 15, '72  Pitt Student Union
ADMISSION FREE
exhibitsALL DAY
lecture7 p.m., Mr. Muki Tsur
Israeli foodnoon to 2:30 p.m. and 
5:00 to 7:00 p.m.
THERES ALWAYS
Stephen Saunders
Theres Always Vanilla, the second 
full-length feature motion picture to be 
produced in Pittsburgh with local talent 
and financial backing is now playing at the 
| Shadyside Theater.
The contemporary romance, which tells 
the story of Chris, a young and compulsive 
wanderer seeking his own experience 
while trying to relate to his father, stars
VANILLA
Pittsburghers Ray Laine and Judith 
Streiner, and features Roger McGovern, 
Johanna Lawrence and Richard Ricci. A 
number of other Pittsburghers also appear 
in character roles.
Theres Always Vanilla was produced 
by The Latent Image, Inc. George Romero, 
president of The Latent Image, served as 
director, cinematographer and editor of the 
color feature.
It follows the companys earlier hit, also

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-The Tartan-Tuesday, March 7, 1972
In our Advanced Course the monthly subsistence allowance has just been increased. From $50 to $100. 
One hundred dollars every month for 10 months of the school 
year. To spend on room and board, dates and ball games.
To save for grad school.
But Army ROTC means a lot more than more
money. It means management and leadership experience that 
you just cant get anywhere else. The kind of thing that can 
land you a better job, and move you along faster once you 
get it. It means a commission as an officer and everything 
that goes with it. The prestige, the pay, the chance to travel, 
the experience.
even better. For the money 
youll earn today. For the person 
youll be tomorrow. See your 
Professor of Military Science, 
or send the coupon for 
information.
Now ROTC looks
See your Professor of Mi litary 
Science in room203 in the 
Gymnasium or call CMUextention 
281 or 282.
Army ROTC. 
The more you look at it, 
the better it looks.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, March 7, 1972-The Tartan-Page 11
l-i
1 '
!w i?
m-uDEe- SOVEReMEeEaEC-gOem
ft
March
Petitions Available Skibo Info Desk

---------------------------------------------------

TRAK
Dan Streyle
like most CMU students, Tony McKay 
left the campus over the recent four day 
weekend. Not for home though. Tony 
headed for Delaware and the Delaware 
Invitational. Accompanied by Coach Gary 
Meckley and Dan Streyle, the trio left at 
noon Saturday and arrived in Delaware 
some six hours later.
Tony was entered in the 600 yard run 
along with a strong field from the top 
Eastern track powers. Also running were 
Conrad Zink of Georgetown, who has the 
fastest time in the East, and Dennis Walker 
of Adelphi, a member of their world-record 
mile relay team. Delaware University 
provided a beautiful field house for the 
meet which included a fast 220 yard 
Tartan track.
Tony grabbed the lead at the start and 
maintained it as the first 220 was crossed 
in: 24.5. He was challenged several times 
on the next lap but quickened his pace 
each time. Zink was slow getting out and 
was never a factor. As the 440 was passed 
in: 50.5 Tony had a five yard lead and was 
very smooth. With about 100 yards left 
Walker started his kick and narrowed the 
gap. Unfortunately Tony never saw him 
coming and was caught at the wire. He was 
officially timed in 1:11.0 compared to 
Walkers 1:10.9 although three watches 
had both runners in 1:10.8.
When one considers that this was only 
Tonys second meet of the season his 
performance was outstanding. Other 
runners, Dennis Walker for instance, have 
been competing every weekend against the 
best runners in the East. Still Tonys time 
is only one and a half seconds off the 
American record-a remarkable 
achievement. Ha has qualified to run in the 
NCAAs and Ic4A meets. However because 
of non-athletic requirements Tony McKay 
is prohibited from entering the 
national-class meets where he belongs.
Because of school policy 
Carnegie-Mellon is not a member of the 
NCAA. The NCAA is not a select group of 
jock schools. Virtually all schools with 
intercollegiate programs are a member. The 
NCAA would also provide the opportunity 
in athletics that CMU provides in 
academics. It certainly seems unfair that 
Tony McKay has to watch from the 
sidelines because of something he has no 
control over. Lets hope that the decision 
to enter the PAC will be followed by a 
similar one concerning the NCAA.
Finally, a special note of thanks should 
be extended to Coach Meckley. He has 
given up countless hours in preparing the 
team for the season. Also it was his efforts 
that enabled Tony and myself to attend 
the Delaware meet. We only hope his 
worth will be rewarded with victories.
IMO.1
Barry Benjamin
On Friday at 8:30 there will only be 
one! There will be only one team that can 
rightfully claim to be the Number One IM 
basketball team at CMU. The finals in the 
Majors will be played Friday, March 10 at 
7:00 as a kickoff to Intramural Night. Pre
sently there are five teams that can hope 
for this distinction. In the Lakers League 
Salt and Pepper, the Wild Bunch, and the 
Raiders are still alive, while the 10 plus 2 
and GSIA represent the Bucks League. 
With the top two teams in each league 
advancing to the playoffs, Salt and Pepper 
has clinched a spot from the Lakers 
League. The second spot should go to the 
winner of the Wild Bunch-Raiders game. 
The 10 plus 2 and GSIA should finish 
1-2 in the somewhat weaker Bucks League. 
As for the playoffs which will include the 
semifinal games at 7:00 and 8:00 on Wed
nesday, March 8, and the Friday final, Salt 
and Pepper must be regarded as the fav
orite. In the past two years they have been 
threatened but never beaten. The only pos
sible way to beat them would be to get 
Sorrell and Mullins into foul trouble, a 
next to impossible task. The 10 plus 2, 
the Wild Bunch, and the Raiders could 
possibly pull off the miracle, but there 
appears to be no way GSIA will get by 
their semifinal game. I look for Salt and 
Pepper and the 10 plus 2 in the finals 
with Salt and Pepper pulling away from the 
talented independent team in the fourth 
quarter.
The Intermediate Playoffs were sche
duled for last week with the finals on 
Thursday. The Intermediates have seen an 
excellent level of competition this year 
with the Players and Phi Kappa Theta ap
pearing to be the strongest teams. The 
Players, who are proving that Fine Arts 
majors can play basketball, should win it 
all.
No matter which teams play in the 
finals, Intramural Night will be a great 
climax to the IM basketball season. With 
the Pittsburgh Steelers following the 
championship game in a contest against the 
Intramural All-stars at 8:30, a pac ked 
house should be in order. Where else can 
one get such great entertainment in the 
city of Pittsburgh by merely flashing an 
identification card?
Sports
J. BROWN
James D. Brown, head basketball coach 
at CMU for the past two seasons, has an
nounced his resignation from the post ef
fective at the completion of the current 
season. /
In making the announcement, Brown, 
who coaches on a part-time basis at CMU, 
cited increasing personal and professional 
commitments which are making it difficult 
to devote enough attention to his coaching 
duties.
Earle R. Swank, Dean of Student Af
fairs at CMU, said the University accepted 
the resignation with regret. Swank added, 
Im sorry about it, but understand the 
reasons for Jims decision to give up coach
ing. He has been a fine representative of 
Carnegie-Mellon Univeristy, as a student, 
an athlete, and a coach.
Brown, 28, assumed the head coaching 
job in 1970 following Moe Fassingers 
resignation. He had served as an assistant to 
Fassinger for three years and started on the 
1965-66 CMU team which compiled a 16-6 
record. Brown transferred to CMU from 
Denison, where he lettered for three years. 
He is currently an architectural designer for 
the Corporate Design Center of Westinghouse Electric Corporation. Browns team 
had a 3-14 season.
IM NIGHT
The 24th annual Intramural Night will 
be held at CMU on Friday, March 10 at 
7:00 PM. This night has been set aside to 
honor the champions in the 29 different 
IM activities in which the students partici
pate throughout the school year.
The program will begin at 7:00 PM with 
the championship Basketball game between 
the two final teams of the 61 basketball 
team league. Over 650 male students parti
cipated in the IM basketball program this 
past season.
During the half of the Championship 
game, about 7:30, trophies will be pre
sented to the winners of the various activi
ties to date by Barry Benjamin, President 
of the Intramural Board.
The program will be drawn to a close at 
8:30 PM by a basketball game between the 
Pittsburgh Steelers Tons-O-Beef, 
coached by Bernie Ragan and the CMU IM 
All Stars. The officials for this affair will 
be Mr. Charles Haberling of the National 
Profession Football League and Mr. Wil
liam Allen of the Pittsburgh Chapter of the 
Eastern Intercollegiate Football Officials 
Association. The kickoff-oh, that is the tip 
off, will be at 8:30.
This program will be under the direction 
of Mr. Earl J. Birdy, Director of the Intra
mural Athletics ot CMU.
There will be no admission charge for 
CMU students, faculty, employees, and 
their guests.
Wrestling
Allen Kohan
A week ago Friday, the wrestling team 
finished its season against Grove City losing 
48-12. Due to injuries and absences, the 
team fielded only six wrestlers for the 
meet.
Mike Veltri won by forfeit at 118, and 
Allen Kohan (134) pinned his opponent in 
the second period. Ken Sauter (126), Tom 
Diller (142), Joe Currilla (150), and Vic 
Rogers (158) lost by falls.
The meet ended the wrestling season, 
which resulted in a 1-9-1 record. This is a 
modest improvement over last years 0-9 
record. The teams improvement was real, 
however, and it is still building. Of this 
years team only three are graduating-Allen 
Kohan, Tom Diller, and Pete Kelston.
Not enough credit can be given to 
Coach Paul Steva. Along with the dedi
cated assistance of Leonard Jones and 
George Brinser, the coach patiently 
brought the team together, and improved 
the skills of the beginners, as well as the 
experienced wrestlers. While not expecting 
miracles, he remained unsatisfied with me
diocre performances. With the bulk of the 
team returning next year, Coaches Steva, 
Jones and Brinser should bring out a mat
uring team that will further improve CMUs 
wrestling status.
RACEWAY
Heidelberg Raceway, one of the nations 
leading stock car ovals, is offering special 
youth discount rates this year for people
20 years of age and younger.
To obtain the discount a P.R.A. youth 
ID card is required. When the card is pre
sented at the ticket windown at Heidelberg 
the card permits a person to buy a ticket 
for $2.00 instead of the regular $3.25 gen
eral admission price.
To receive a youth card stop at the 
Heidelberg Raceway any time during race 
days starting Sunday, March 5, 1972, at 
2:30 PM and every Sunday through April
16. After April 16th racing will switch to 
Saturday evenings starting at 8:30 PM.
Heidelberg Raceway is located 8 miles 
south of Pittsburgh on Route 50.
IM
Dont miss the IM Swim Meet, Tuesday, 
March 7 at 4:30 PM.
IM rosters for swimming, rifle, softball, 
and team badminton due Tuesday, March 
7.
IM Night, Friday, March 10, starting at 
7:00 PM.
