1 tartan
this week
CBook Corrections6
Pizza Productions8
Andy Warhol15
Hockey Results18
January 14, 1975 Volume 75 Number 13
MIS Dean Resigns
Bothner-By photo by Elliot Popowitz
by Steven Correll
Dean of Mellon Institute of Science 
Askel A. Bothner-By, who has headed MIS 
since it became an independent college in 
1971, will step down as soon as CMU finds 
a successor.
He is the third CMU dean to resign since 
the beginning of the school year.
Bothner^By explained his resignation by 
pointing to a fairly long stint of admin
istrative work of a fairly difficult kind. 
Before becoming Dean, he served as chair
man of the Chemistry Department for 
three years, beginning in 1967.
MinimumWage
Increased
by Chip Yeager
A 1966 amendment to the Fair Labor 
Standards Act, covering the minimum 
wages for full-time college students, has 
raised that minimum wage to $1.70 per 
hour. The increase, one of a series of yearly 
increases, extending through 1977, will 
apply to all employees on the CMU cam
pus, both full-time staff and part-time stu
dent workers.
According to a memorandum put out 
by the National Association of College and 
University Officers (NACUBO), full-time 
students may work under a special sub
minimum wage rate-85% of the prevailing 
minimum wage rate, or $1.60, whichever is 
higher. The memo states that only full
time students are eligible for employment, 
and that full-time means just what a 
particular university or college says it. 
means. The amendment also states that 
only full-time students at a certain school
I have not been very successful in get
ting the president and provost to put fresh 
money into the college over the next few 
years, he said,  ... so I thought Id let 
somebody else try the job.
Provost and Vice President for Academ
ic Affairs Edward Schatz praised BothnerBys achievements as Dean, including the 
founding of the Biological Sciences Depart
ment, and said, He has my and the pres
idents thanks.
I think he is saying ... in a way, that it 
has been a hard fight in science these past 
years, and that he has done his share of the 
fighting, said Schatz.
Schatz said last week that he planned 
within a few days to name a committee to 
search for a successor. He has no precon
ceived notions on whether the successor 
should come from within the faculty or 
outside the University, he said.
Bothner-By said he plans to devote time 
to research, to catch up on publishing com
pleted work, and perhapsnoting that he 
has not had a sabbatical since 1962to 
take some time off to think about some 
biological problems that interest him.
His research has centered on nuclear 
magnetic resonance (NMR), a technique 
for analyzing chemical materials. Various 
atomic nuclei oscillate at different frequen
cies when subjected to magnetic fields.
CMU has asked the National Institute of 
Health for $1 million over the next five 
years to improve the Universitys NMR 
facilities whitSi are, Bothner-By said, in all
continued on page 11
may be paid at the reduced rate by that 
school. Part-time students at CMU, for ex
ample, and full-time students at Pitt, 
Chatham, etc., working on this campus, 
must be paid at the full minimum wage 
rate, presently $2.00 per hour. After Jan
uary 1, 1977, the full minimum wage will 
be $2.30, a id the student employee wage
$1.95. continued on page 11
Comp Center Revolutionphoto by John Rose
Computer Facilities 
To Be Improvedimithby Paul Smith
Construction has started on a $38,000 
improvement of CMU computer facilities. 
The project is being paid for jointly by the 
University and funds received by the Com
puter Science department from a govern
ment contract. CMU will pick up about 
one fourth of the cost with Computer 
Science paying the rest.
Plans for construction were formed last 
spring, when Computer Science realized 
that the space they had would be in
adequate for the number of research con
tracts which they handled.
A number of possible designs were sub
mitted but the present course was followed 
as the cheapest method of enlarging the 
computer facilities.
The changes involve both the third and 
fifth floors of Science Hall. The area which 
is presently used for keypunching on the 
third floor will become a Computer 
Science machine room. Aside from phy
sical changes, the third floor will get new 
360 teletypes.
The fifth floor will get a remote job 
entry facility (IBM 3780) with self-service 
card reader and printer. Also new to the 
fifth floor will be a study area and key
punches. People using the teletypes on the 
fifth floor will be able to get printer listings 
without walking downstairs.
It is hoped that with these improvemei.ts, present crowding and long waits 
will be if not eliminated, at least lessened.
Gester Resigns 
As Drama Head
photo by John Rose
by Gary Singer and Steven Correll
Professor Earle R. Gister has resigned as 
Head of the Drama Department, citing a 
need to allow the department and himself 
to change.
I wish to provide both the department 
and the dean with opportunities to make a 
change, to do things differently; and, by 
the same token, to allow myself to explore 
new possibilities, he told a reporter.
Dean of Fine Arts Akram Midani, in a 
letter to Drama students, expressed 
... appreciation for [Gisters] dedication 
to the department, and the effective leader
ship which he provided for the past ten 
years.
A Statement of Policy released by the 
Dean and the Drama faculty likewise men
tions change: the opportunity ... which 
is now available to us as a result of various 
changes in the department.
Midani has named a committee to 
search for a successor and will advertise the 
position nationally.
Though Gister remains a tenured mem
ber of the Drama faculty, he indicated he 
may leave CMU for a job in theatre edu
cation elsewhere. Gister denies that dis
agreement with Midani prompted his resig
nation. Rumors of friction between Gister 
and his superior were persistent in past 
years, but rancor surfaced publicly only 
once, in March 1973. Gister publicly com
plained that Midani and CMU President 
Richard Cyert were planning the renova
tion and extension of the department s 
building areas without consulting him. 
Midani requested and received Gisters 
resignation, but the dispute was settled 
within a few hours, with Gister staying on.
continued on page 10

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2THE TARTAN-January 14, 1975
editors note
Resolution No. 1
As the shimmering ball dropped on New Yorks Times Square and 
good old Guy turned on celebrants of the New Year with his schmaltzy 
rendition of Auld Lang Syne, a glimmer of hope for 1975 seemed 
appropriate.
However, lest old acquaintance be forgot, Americans were reminded 
of the Watergate scandal the next day, when Judge John Sirica 
announced a verdict of guilty for the former president's aides Mitchell, 
Ehrlichman, Haldeman and Mardian.
And then, nothing like reading your January 1 issue of the New 
York Times to realize that you may be one of the 9,000 Americans 
who are kept on file by the CIA . . . any more news to warm the hearts 
of the people?
A New Year? Thank goodness for that everlasting companion, the 
boob tube. From cotton to oranges to roses, it's the one consistent 
factor in the lives of Americans. Despite economic recessions and 
energy crises, majorettes still freeze their tails and football fans are not 
disappointed (unless their team loses, of course!).
So, a 'New Year has come, but little has changed as the traumas 
from 1974 continue. If the theory that history repeats itself holds true, 
then we really haven't learned from our mistakes.
In fact, here we are-two weeks later, back at our beloved C-MU, and 
its a new semester. The possibility that spring will be any different 
than fall might be just as big a myth as the perpetual motion from '74 
to '75. Whats a new semester except a change in schedule, Spring 
Carnival rather than Homecoming, and protesting announced tenure 
decisions instead of wondering who will receive the axe?
We, the educated elite, intellectualize about our professional dir
ection as the world revolves around us. As career-oriented students, we 
shut out those events shich dont apply to us. After all, what could one 
possibly learn from a group of self-seeking politicians? Does the apathy 
that led to Watergate have nothing to do with the apathy that controls 
our select campus community? Our education at Carnegie-Mellon is 
another myth if we dont study life in a broader perspective.
If Watergate provided any hints for the future, it warned an apathet
ic public how power can be used and abused. As students who pay 
tuition, we have just as much right to question the president of our 
university as do U.S. citizens who pay taxes have the right to question 
their government officials.
Last semester, when speaking with President Cyert about Dean 
Steinbergs resignation, he told me that he and the administration dont 
like to keep secrets from students. Shouldnt President Cyert be held 
accountable for this statement? Unfortunately, poor attendance at 
open meetings between students and Cyert convey the impression that 
students just dont care about administrative decisions. Protests always 
seem to occur after a decision has been made, rather than campus 
groups taking an active lobbying position before the fact.
Down through the ranks, deans, department heads, professors and 
staff are involved with the workings of the University. But communica
tion between students and employees of the University are limited. One 
gets the feeling that a room has been bugged when speaking to a 
secretary of security officer. No person wants to be pinned down for 
having said something. Some security officers have been warned about 
saying too much.
Students are often afraid of being too honest because their grades 
may be threatened. I was recently in a class where some of the students 
waited to hand in their course evaluations until after they received their 
grades. They just wanted to make sure any negative comments 
wouldnt be held against them.  tPerhaps the alienation between student, professor and staff doesn t 
really bother anybody (its easy not to care about being apathetic). 
However, professors awaiting tenure decisions seem to be one group 
that is bothered by possible confrontation with students. Have you ever 
noticed how careful the potential tenure professor is? If you havent 
noticed, its probably because the University doesnt publish a list of all 
the professors to be reviewed in a given year for tenure.
Unless some barriers are broken down between the various channels: 
within our institution, the myth of a New Year and a New 
semester will persist.
I came across one person in Warner Hall last Monday who was 
shaken out of the myth of the NEW Year. For the individual who is 
told to leave Carnegie-Mellon, the NEW Year brings a shocking sense of 
reality. Although the guy had received extremely low grades from the 
Architecture department via mail, he was not told until registration day 
that he could not return to C-MU. His parents had driven him four 
hundred miles that day so he could begin his new semester... a 
newer semester than they ever expected it would be.
Who isnt for the continuation of the old standby traditions? But its 
about'time that a few of these old standbys were chucked from the Hit 
Parade.
VICTORY
letters
Editor:
As parliamentarian of Student 
Senate, I would like to respond 
to Gary Singers article in the 
December 10 TARTAN which 
implied that Student Senate had
passed its newly-revised consti
tution illegally. The article stated 
that the constitution had not 
been tabled, as specified in the 
old constitution (as well as the 
new). Gary was evidently un
aware that the constitution had 
been submitted and tabled at the 
first meeting of the fall semester.
Once tabled for more than 
one day, an issue may be un
tabled and ammended-without
being retabledthen passed. Am
ending an already-tabled con
stitutional issue does not neces
sitate tabling the whole 
constitution again.
If anyone has any further 
questions, please feel free to con
tact me.
David V. Groupe 
Vice-Chairman, 
Student Senate
tartan
Editor-in-Chief: Oebbie Siegel 
Managing Editor: Gary Singer 
Business Manager: Lester Nathan 
News Editor: Kevin Turcotte
Entertainment Editor: Mark Evan Chimsky 
Photography Editor: John Shettel 
Sports Editor: Dave Kanner 
Features Editors: David Cates, Greg McKenna 
Copy Editor: Monci Jo Williams
Happy NEW Year.
Debbie Siegel
Staff Writers: Renee Banks, Steven Correll, Sharon Curcio, James Fletcher, Rick Freed, Fred 
Freedman, Anne Friedman, Dave Girdany, Lisa Gordon, Arnie Karr, Stacey Robin Kirnbell,
Claire Lee, Lisa Lieberman, Dolores Foster. John Mangano, Mik e Pochan, Amy peitmeyer. Paul 
Smith, John Spalding, Tom Schwartz, Chip Yeager.
Photographers: Richard Fisher, Rick Frantz, Courtney Larson, Ed Levine, Dave Meeker, Paul 
Mervis, Elliot Popowitz. Rodman Reilly, John Rose, Mark Segal. Fred Shamlian.
Business: Tony Fine, Tom Kendig, Arthur Silverberg.
Art: Nancy Bink, Nonie Dempsey, Kitty Fischer, Mindy Maier
Layout and Typesetting: John Mangano, Ronnie Savion, Paula Strasser
The Editorial Board of the TARTAN reserves the right to edit or withhold any copy that it considers unfit for 
publication. Funded by Student Government of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh,Penn. 15213. Editorial 
offices are located in Skibo 50, Business office in Skibo 52. Telephone (412) 682-4557 or campus extension656.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-January 14, 1975-Page 3
news comment
I
JAM
JLMHiWA
jk4Ajilj/IIIlL
byr/Jf\dllllllkHk
V
t
Vhos
nisti
e
ike?
X
R
...Hater
Rights of the individual . . .
Count them!
As the other comments on this page make perfectly clear, the poster 
Count the Mistakes has been viewed by many on this campus as the 
biggest mistake of them all. Mr. Pagano says, above, In my opinion 
this poster is in the poorest and most depraved taste I have yet
encountered.
Ms. S.R.K. , below, complains that the decision to remove the 
posters prior to speaking with the students or meeting with a 
student-elected college council is an infringement on the rights of 
members of the paying student body. Ms. S.R.K. also charges the 
administration with violating the artists first amendment rights, 
censoring their free expression.
Jim Bubb, the Forbes Street Gallery director, told Mr. Patla that he 
could never approve the poster, but never exercised his right to forbid 
it.
But lets count the mistakes. First, I believe that as an artist, Mr. 
Patla or anyone else has the right to produce any kind of art he believes 
to be appropriate. However, when the artist displays his work under the 
aegis of an institution, he has to respect the wishes of that institution. 
Mr. Patlas poster reflected on the Forbes Street Gallery, and Bubb 
ought to have forbidden the use of the Gallerys name on them to 
protect its reputation; if necessary, he could have enforced his order by 
closing the show. Mistake number one.
Mistake number two. Unlike Ms. S.R.K.s assertion, the removal of 
the posters was not ordered by the administration, but rather was 
decided by Jim Bubb himself, in consultation with Susan Christian, 
Director of Student Activities. Bubb realized the harm the poster could 
do to the gallery and himself went about pulling them down. We should 
avoid blaming the administration for something it didnt do. Criticism 
should be reserved for cases when it is deserved so that when the real 
wolf attacks, the shepherd will respond.
Mistake number three. This commentary, together with the others 
surrounding it, is making a major issue out of a minor-point. One 
interpretation of the poster was that it was supposed to show that we 
are imperfect, and we all make mistakes. We all have.
Gary Singer 
Managing Editor
3Nil
J copy
HO/HIE 
SUBSCRIBE TO THE CMU TARTAN
Send a check for $3.50 to the 
CMU TARTAN, Skibo 50 or stop by.
by Ralph Pagano
David, of whom I recall much 
from high school, was both a 
neighbor and a classmate of mine 
for several years. Outstanding in 
my memories, however, was not 
David himself, but the manner 
in which others related to, or 
should I say used him. He was 
both mentally and physically 
damaged, crippled by an early 
childhood accident. He was also 
the constant figure of popular 
harassment and manipulation, 
being subjected to inhuman and 
totally degrading practices that 
were outright perversions for sur
passing normal adolescent 
pranks. Quite obviously to in
sure their own identity and 
superiority, his seemingly ade
quate contemporaries took full 
advantage of his obvious in
adequacies. Almost daily witnes
sing of this usurpation of the dig
nity and worth of a human being 
toward the supposed benefit of 
others left me with an irrecon
cilable disgust. Often I concluded 
that given several years of matur
ation, an ounce of intelligence, 
plus some- secure understanding 
of their own worth, Davids per
secutors would realize the true 
nature of their actions and cease 
pillaging the dignity and courtesy 
that is his right.
But perhaps my conclusion 
was wrong. For several students 
at CMU, four years of supposed 
intelligence and maturity in
crease has made little difference. 
A visual confrontation my first 
day back this semester rekindled 
that same disgust somewhat for
gotten amidst* the normalcy 
and superiority of the student
contingent.
I refer to the posters with the 
display title Count the Mistakes, 
advertising a showing of art by 
Ed Levine, Robert Patla, Jeffery 
Sussman and Walter Yablonsky 
at the Forbes Street Gallery. The 
poster made prominent use of 
persons photographs having con
genital defects resulting in largescale physical and/or mental de
formities. Intermixed with these 
were the photo-portraits of the 
artists themselves.
In my opinion this poster is in 
the poorest and most depraved 
taste I have yet encountered. I 
lack words that convey the 
emotional impact such a repug
nant travesty had upon me, 
though I am sure it was not at all 
favorable to the artists intent. I 
was saddened to realize Mr. 
Levines, Mr. Patlas, Mr. Sussmans and Mr. Yablonskys low 
perceptions and sensitivity of 
others as well as their warped 
ethics as designers and artists 
evidenced by the poster. They 
had not apparently considered 
those members of our commun
ity with relatives, friends or 
other intimate ties to such 
people so insidiously displayed. 
More important, they had ig
nored the value and privacy of 
each specific individual whose 
photographic features also rep
resent an entire group. To have 
used the unfortunate circum
stances of anothers life to adver
tise through shock-type propa
ganda technique, assures me of 
their cheap conception of human 
'life and tasteless mishandling of 
the communications media. And 
to have exploited the helpless in 
such a way as to meet their own,
quite insignificant ends requires 
some deep misunderstanding of 
self. As a senior design student I 
was ashamed to see my peers 
agree to the production of 
material so obviously offensive 
and extraordinarily unresponsive 
to the needs of people other than 
themselves.
This is not to suggest as adults 
one should attempt to closet 
the very real existence of such 
individuals from the normal 
world, as our great-grandparents 
did with sex and other un
mentionables. But, unlike sex, 
physical and mental deformities 
are not pleasant or normal occurances, and as such should be 
handled with the care and tact 
they deserve. As in the case of 
the poster, flaunting can only 
serve to add to the hurt and in
justice already afflicting these in
dividuals.
To those four: I do not con
sider your poster something to 
be lightly joked about as I have 
already personally seen you do. 
These are true human beings. 
And although you may wish to 
be portrayed in a cheap and ap
palling manner that gratifies your 
own opinions of yourselves, I 
assure you, the others involved 
do not. And to the Gallery 
Officials: I voice my dismay at 
your irresponsible permission 
granted to advertisement bearing 
such imagery, that is also a re
flection upon your own selfconcept as an established organ
ization.
I count only one mistake 
here-that this poster was ever 
printed with such insensitive con
sent and intent.
versus artistic freedom
A controversy arose recently 
concerning a poster produced by 
four CMU students advertising 
their show at the CMU Student 
Art Gallery. The poster had 
photographs of the faces of the 
artists mixed with pictures of dis
figured faces, just slightly more 
deformed than those of the 
artists (Robert Patla, Walter 
Yablonsky, Jeff Sussman and Ed 
Levine). The poster was entitled 
Count the Mistakes and it 
aroused the emotions of some of 
the faculty, who thought it to be 
a ridicule.
According to its creators, it 
was not an attempt to offend 
anyone, but Sue Christian and 
Jim Bubb decided it was 
smut and had a number of the 
posters removed from the cam
pus community, without consult
ing anyone concerned. That 
move alone on their part was a 
condescending blatant debase
ment of the creativity and opin
ions of the four aforementioned
' students'and those at the Gallery 
who approved the poster for dis
play. After the posters were re
moved, Robert Patla and Walter 
Yablonsky were told by Sue 
Christian she didnt want the 
name of the University associa
ted with the poster. This is an 
understandable request, consider
ing the courts are flooded with 
cases based on the improper use 
of someone or somethings name. 
Nonetheless, the decision to re
move the posters prior to speak. ing with the students or meeting 
with a student-elected college 
council is an infringement on the 
rights of members of a paying 
student body (an infringement 
the gallery administration_has 
liberally granted itself).
At the prices we are paying to 
be here and to keep these admin
istrators well fed, we most surely 
must be able to have more of a 
say concerning the rules and reg
ulations of things as simple as the 
First Amendment. The admin
istration has decreed that they 
were against this poster. They 
have, in essence, told the stu
dents involvedwe do not think 
you are capable bf producing art. 
If there is not enough creative 
paranoia on this campus already, 
an intensely narrow-minded ber
ating gallery administration 
certainly will instill it.
If a student wants to post a 
bill expressing his opinio*, no 
matter how offensive, I think as 
a paying customer he has the 
right. I believe that the faculty 
involved in insulting the artistic 
wishes of these students owe 
Walter, Bob, Jeff and Ed a deep 
apology.
S.R.K.
TARTAN PUBLICATION SCHEDULE
January142123
February41118
March41118
April81522

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4THE TARTANJanuary 14, 1975
announcements
CARNIVAL IS COMING!! Spring Carnival
'75 is only 14 weeks away. Carnival Com
mittee needs all able-bodied students to 
help make this the best Carnival ever. If 
you are interested in helping with any as
pect of- Carnival, please attend a meeting 
tomorrow Wednesday, Jan. 15 at 4:30 pm 
in room 46 Skibo.
Second semester season pass for all C-MU
hockey games at the Civic Arena. Six 
doubleheaders for $7.00. Available at the 
Skibo information desk, now till Sunday, 
January 19th, in Baker Hall from 10:00 am 
to 3:00 pm and Skibo from 11:00 am to 
2:00 pm on Tuesday, Jan. 14 and 
Thursday, Jan. 16.
The film Stresemann will be presented on
January 16 in Porter Hall 100 at 4:30 pm. 
The film shows the efforts of German For
eign Minister Stresemann towards peace 
and European unity after World War I. The 
audio is German, but there are English sub
titles. It will last 106 minutes.
Students who are working on under
graduate research projectslet us know 
about them. Write up a summary of what 
you're doing. Contact the TARTAN, 
Room 50, Skibo.
Every alien who is in the United States on
the 1st day of January of each year shall, 
within 30 days following such date, report 
his address to the Commissioner, Immigra
tion and Naturalization Service, and shall 
furnish such additional information as may 
be required by regulations. Any alien who 
is temporarily absent from the United 
States during the reporting period shall re
port his address within 10 days after his 
return to The United States. Any alien who 
willfully or inexcusably fails to report as 
required is liable to be taken into custody 
and deported. In addition, imprisonment 
or fines may be levied before deportation.
The Pennsylvania Higher Education Assist
ance Agency Renewal Applications for
1975-76 are being mailed during the month 
of January to all students currently receiv
ing PHEAA grants. Any student not receiv
ing a PHEAA grant for the 1974-75 aca
demic year will not receive renewal forms 
in the mail. All upperclass students, wheth
er they are current recipients of a State 
Grant this year or not, MUST apply to 
PHEAA if they are from the Common
wealth of Pennsylvania and are applying 
for aid from CMU. Those students who are 
not currently recipients should pick up 
PHEAA applications at the Financial Aid 
Office in 210 Warner Hall during the first 
week of February. PHEAA is constantly 
liberalizing the eligibility criteria for State 
Grants and many more students should be 
eligible. The deadline for applications for 
the 1975-76 academic year is May 1, 1975.
Demonstration/Lecture on "People vs.
Nature" Developed and underdeveloped 
coutnries will be the focus for a discussion 
of developmental ideas and structures for 
emergency housing. Learn "How to build 
your own igloo! Tuesday, January 21 at 
7:30 pm in the Wherrett Room. Sponsored 
by Campus Programming Planning.
The Activities Board Coffeehouse original
ly scheduled for January 23 and January 
25 has been rescheduled to January 30, 31 
and February 1; however, the January 24 
coffeehouse will still be held.
Make this correction! Dr. James 
Anderson, originally scheduled to give a 
talk February 3 on "Crisis in the Atmos
phereOzone," will now speak March 4, 
7:30 pm in the Wherrett Room.
On Monday, February 3 at 7:30 pm 
in the Wherrett Room, Herbert Simon, Pro
fessor of Comp. Sci. and Psychology, will 
give a tlak on artificial intelligence.
BMI (Broadcast Music, Inc.), the world's
largest music licensing organization, has 
thrown open the doors to its annual 
musical show competition aimed at high
lighting the young talent in the nation's 
colleges, universities and conservatories.
Since 1961, BMI has awarded an an
nual prize to the top shows sponsored and 
produced on the nation's campuses. Now, 
the writer of an unproduced work also is 
invited to join the competition.
Additional information is available 
from Allan Becker, Broadcast Music, Inc., 
40 West 57th Street, New York, New York 
10019.
The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania has
made provisions for the summer employ
ment of college students to introduce them 
to the many career fields in state govern
ment. Employes in this class (Student 
Aides) perform a variety of duties in a 
planned work program designed to provide 
skills and experience and to stimulate inter
est in one of these fields. They work clos
ely with technical superiors in an assigned 
occupational specialty or program area 
such as management and administrative ser
vices, social welfare, mental health, em
ployment services and business regulations. 
Applicants must have, completed at least 
three full academic years of study in an 
accredited college or university prior to 
July 1, 1975, and be currently enrolled in a 
full-time undergraduate or graduate pro
gram in an accredited college or university. 
They must presently be in good standing 
and must be returning to college in the fall 
of 1975. Applicants must be Pennsylvania 
residents. Applications will be accepted un
til January 17, 1975. Room 411, Fourth 
Floor, State Office Building, 300 Liberty 
Avenue, telephone 565-7666.
ADD THESE TO YOUR ACTIVITIES 
CALENDAR:
Date Change
Herb Olds will present a lecture/ 
demo on "Drawing" on Thursday, January 
23 at 12:30 pm in the Wherrett Room.
Professor Thomas Kerr, discussion/ 
film "Interview With Supreme Court Jus
tice Hugo Black" 12:30 pm. Wherrett 
Room, Thursday, February 20.
Professor Thomas Kerr, discussion/ 
film "Interview With Supreme Court Justice 
William O. Douglas" 12:30 pm, Wherrett 
Room, Thursday, March 6.
Book Beat: A new program intended to
provide you with an opportunity to discuss 
current works with members of the CMU 
faculty. The first program will be held on 
Wednesday, February 5 at 7:30 pm in 
Breed Hall. The book: Robert L. Heilbroner's An Inquiry Into the Human 
Prospect.
"The Art of Fugue" by Johann Sebastian
Bach will be performed by organist Victor 
Hill in Calvary Episcopal Church, 315 
Shady Avenue, at 8 pm Wednesday. Jan
uary 15. The performance will be sponsor
ed by the Music Department of CarnegieMellon University and is open to the public 
without charge.
Applications for the Vira I. Heinz Travel
Award are now available in the Office of 
Student Affairs, 207 Warner Hall. This 
grant, established in 1967, will enable a 
woman student to study and travel abroad 
between her junior and senior years. The 
purpose of the $1,500 award "is to have an 
articulate and perceptive young lady gain 
first-hand knowledge of international un
derstanding and share her experience with 
other members of the college community 
upon her return."
Junior women interested in being 
considered for this award must submit an 
application to the Student Affairs Office 
by Friday, February 7, 1975. The selection 
committee will meet with all applicants at 
3:00 pm on Thursday, February 13, in 
Warner Hall, Room 207.
The Department of Modern Languages and
Literatures will administer proficiency tests 
in French, German, Spanish and Russian 
on Saturday, January 18, at 10:00 am in 
the Language Laboratory (Margaret Mor
rison 310).
Any student may take one of these 
tests; there is no charge. The test takes 95 
minutes.
Students who demonstrate compe
tence at the intermediate level will satisfy 
their college and/or departmental require
ments in a foreign language (undergraduate 
only).
Students may also take this test in 
order to establish their level of competence 
in the language gained through self-study, 
study abrad, etc., or to determine their 
level of achivement in order to continue 
further study in that language. These tests 
are primarily designed for students who 
have had two years or more of college 
language instruction, although this is not a 
prerequisite for taking the test.
Students wishing to take one of these 
tests should sign up in the Modern Lang
uages Department office, BH 232B, before 
Friday, January 17.
Applications for the James G. Fulton
Legislative Internship must be returned by 
January 31, 1975.
The winners in this third annual com
petition, open to all college students who 
are residents of Allegheny County and 
vicinity, will work in a legislative office in 
Washington, Harrisburg or Pittsburgh. The 
internship will be for eight weeks to be 
served between June and September, 1975, 
at a weekly stipend of $100.
Requests for application forms 
should be sent immediately to the James 
G. Fulton Internship Program of The Pitts
burgh Foundation, Suite 1417301 Fifth 
Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15222, telephone 
391-5122.
It's still not too late to apply for the Fed
eral Government's Basic Educational 
Opportunity Grants. To apply for a Basic 
Grant, students must fill out an "Applica
tion for Determination of Basic Grant El
igibility." These applications are available 
from the school's financial aid officer, or 
by writing Basic Grants, Box 1842, Wash
ington, D.C. 20028.
The Student Senate Health Fund which
provides interest-free loans up to $200 for 
childcare or abortion fees is now handled 
by the Peer Help Center. For more infor
mation, come to Baker Hall 150A or call 
621-9900.
As a Freshman, you are about to make ai
decision which will affect the remainder of 
your college careeryour choice of a major 
area of'study. We know that you can ob
tain information about courses of studyt 
from departmental offices within your 
college. However, there might be other fac
tors involved in making your decisiotji. If^ 
this is the case for you, then maybe we can 
be of further assistance. Feel free to drop 
by, or call, and informally talk with any 
one of us at the Peer Help Center, 150A 
Baker Hall, 621-9900.
The Pittsburgh Pyramid Zen Society will
resume their regular public meetings in the 
Pitt Student Union in room 319 every 
Thursday night at .8:00 pm. All are invited 
o participate in a system similar to Zen 
'that the Society fosters.
The Cyert Show An opportunity to find 
out what you and the President know 
about*CMU. President Richard Cyert, Pan
elists Bev Robinson, Debbie Siegel and 
Skip Edwards and host Arnie Karr will 
answer your questions. Tuesday, January
14, from 6 to 7 pm. Call 621-9728 or ext. 
8883, then listen. WRCT, 88.3 FM.
Anyone wanting to purchase yearbook sub
scription for Thistle '75 before formal sales 
repeat should see Student Senate Secretary 
in lower lounge of Skibo by Activities 
Offices.
There will be a Thistle '75 yearbook staff
meeting on Thursday, January 16 at 5 pm 
in room 45. Presence of entire staff is re
quested. Any new members with interest in 
photography, layout,. copy, sales, promo
tions, invited.
The 2nd annual Wine and Cheese Party for
Graduate Women at CMU will be held on 
Monday, January 27 from 4:15 to 5:45 pm 
in the Faculty Lounge at Skibo. Do come 
and meet some of the toher women doing 
graduate work at CMU.
Female models needed for promotional
campaign. Earn excellent salary in spare 
time. Send photo and resume to A&R 
Associates, P.O. Box 7220, Oakland 
Station, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213.
Typing, resumes, term papers. Reasonable,
quick, professional. Call 781-6762.
FOR RENT- Large 2-bedroom apartment,
unfurnished. 5 rooms, bath, hall. 5 minute 
walk from C-MU and on bus route. $130 
plus utilities. Occupancy to start February 
1st. Call Barbara or Kevin, 521-7506 or 
C-MU extension 489.
House for Sale or Rent (with an option to
buy)-Squirrel Hill. Near Schenley Park, 
off Beechwood Blvd. Attractive 2 story 
brick, 3 bedroom 1 bath, 2 powderrooms. 
Fully equipped eat-in kitchen, finished 
gameroom, integral garage, drapes, wall to 
wall carpeting, many extras. Owner asking 
high 30's, 421-1391.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TART AN-January 14, 1975-Page 5
news briefs
Compiled by Debbie Siegel
In a recent issue of Time magazine, Carnegie-Mellons graduate program in bus
iness was listed as fifth in the country for 
academic excellence.
While crime increased 22% in the districts 
of Oakland and Shadyside, CMU Security 
announced a decrease in campus crime for 
the month of December. Personal property 
thefts decreased 20% and University prop
erty thefts decreased 50%.
Student Senates General Campus Committee is organizing a charity drive on cam
pus for a worthy organization. Any sug
gestions regarding charities and charitable 
events should be referred to Larry Kurzweil, General Campus Committee, Student 
Senate, Campus Mail. The Committee urges 
active participation from all.
Due to a cutback of service in the library, 
the Hunt Reference librarians will be on 
duty from 8:00 am to 5:00 pm Monday 
through Friday, and 1:00 pm to 5:00 pm 
on Sunday. Reference assistants will no 
longer work at night.
by Kevin Turcotte
The CMU ambulance, a 73 Dodge, was 
recently sold for $7200 to the Wilkinsburg 
Ambulance Service. The sale was con
ducted through a sealed bid auction.
It wasnt really a useful vehicle for 
patrol, said William Dillon, Business Man
ager for the University. It was a good deal 
for the number of miles and the usage we
got out of it.
The ambulance, bought at a little over 
$10,000 was expected to lose $5000 in 
dprciation.
- Any used car dealer in the world 
would say we got a good price, said 
Dillon
LITRONIX: 
Calculators You 
Can Depend On
ONE YEAR UNCONDITIONAL 
GUARANTEE ON ALL CALCULATORS
,itronis MEMORY
List price $49.95
SCIEnTIFIC
List Price - $29 95
List price $59 95
litronix no,Cy\[CULATOR
WITH PRCNT
List Price $69 95
Litronix qalculators can be purchased at:
Kaufmann s. Joseph Horne Co.. G C Murphy Co.. J C Penney 
W T Grant. American Hardware Montgomery Ward h Co The 
Office Machine, and most of your favorite book stationary and 
department stores
WELCH HALL ROBBERY
AMBULANCE SOLD
by Steven Correll
A Welch Hall resident who answered a 
knock on his door was forced to lie on the 
floor while an intruder stood over him with 
a gun and two others searched his room for 
valuables.
Two separate witnesses saw a group of 
five suspects flee the dormitory after the 
crime, which took place halfway through, 
finals week, around 1 am on December 18.
As John Boniello tells it, he was alone in 
his room when someone knocked on the 
door and called out what Boniello thought 
was his name. When he opened the door, a 
man asked for some person whose name 
Boniello didnt recognize. As he tried to 
close the door, the suspect forced his way 
in, followed by a cohort carrying a gun.
The robbery lasted about five minutes, 
with the men ripping the phone out of the 
wall and searching the desk drawers but 
leaving the dressers and one closet un
opened.
The guy with the gun was telling them 
to hurry up and keep it down, Boniello 
recalls.
Boniello and his roommate, Mitchell 
Pliner, estimate their losses at $600, includ
ing a radio, a clock radio, a watch, a tele
vision set, tools and clothing.
Pliner, noting that the dormitories are 
particularly vulnerable to robbery during fi
nals week when many students are moving
out of their rooms, said, I wonder why we 
cant have a security guy on the Hill all the 
time. Just one guy sitting in a car with a 
walkie-talkie could be a deterrent. We 
ought to have that, not during the day, 
maybe, but particularly at night during 
such a vulnerable time of the year.
A Welch resident on her way to the 
basement laundry room encountered the 
suspects as they were leaving Boniellos 
room.
One of them had a ski mask on, and I 
'thought, gee, maybe theyre robbers. So I 
didnt want them to beat me up or any
thing, so I said hi to them, and its 
crazyone by one, they each said hi to 
me as they walked out with TVs and 
stuff... they were really very nice.
She ran to her room to call Security: I 
never came up the stairs so fast in my life. 
Meanwhile, another CMU student was 
standing across Margaret Morrison Street in 
front of Donner Hall, loading his car, when 
he saw five men running down the steps to 
the street. He reported that they were car
rying white bags, like laundry bags or gar
bage can liners, that they got into a navy 
blue 1969 Plymouth Fury, and that they 
took their time driving off.
They looked so young, like 18 or so, 
for it to be an armed robbery ... its in
credible, he said.
Anyone interested 
in joining the
TECHNICAL
COMMITTEE
of the Activities Board
(ie. sound and lights)
Please come
to a meeting on
JANUARY 15,1975
IN ROOM 57
SKIBO HALL
At 7:30 P.M.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6THE TARTANJanuary 14, 1975
SAVE THIS
C-BOOK CORRECTIONS
MOREWOOD DESK - 621-1989
CAMPUS ORGANIZATIONS
Social Fraternity
Pi Kappa Alpha, 1079 Morewood 
Avenue, 682-1474
Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship 
Box 205 Baker Hall 
Jean Saby - 682-0877 
Cathy Carbon  682-8895
STUDENTS
ASTER, David E. (2) Dra. 112 Donner Bx 
503, 682*8800. 508 E Conshohgcken St. 
Penna Valley, 19072
BUTLER, Jocelyn (3) Psy. 5115 Center
Ave., 687*4603. a5 15232. 11711 Karen
Dr. Potomac, MD 20854
CATES David (3) Eng. Donner Hall 332,
682-8711. 1175 Pmhurst, Florissant, MO
63033
GREENE, Meryl (1) Des. Mg 2-C-4,
682*8888. 303 E. 57th St. NY, NY 10022 
FEINBERG, Rachel (2) Art 5143 Forbes 
Ave. Pgh. 15213, 621-8187. 14449 East 
Carroll University Hgts, OH 44118 
FINGER, Sandra Mg 6-A-2 (no box num
ber)
FISCHER, Catherine (5) Des. 1055 Devon 
Rd., Pgh., 683-6816. Box 267 Ridge Rd., 
Valencia, PA 16059
JONES, Dan (2) Che 341 Donner Bx 676, 
(687-8763. Bx 62 Star Route, Apollo, PA
15613
MACK, Theresa (1) Eng. Mg 3-B-4, 
621-9566. 336 Ellerton, South Laurel, MD 
20810
MURIN, Pat (2) Che. 341 Donner Bx 844, 
687-8763. 121 McLaughlin, New Kensing
ton, PA 15068
NADEL, Rich (2) Des 332 Donner Bx 714, 
682*8711. 5 Melanie Lane, Syosset, NY 
11791
NEMETZ, Carol (5) Che 6-A-5 Mg,
682-8879. .13 Fairview, E- Hanover, NJ 
07936
THOMPSON, Willie R. Delta Tau Delta, 
687-3024
WINKLER, Betty (3) Art 5115 Centre 
Ave. a5, 15232, 687-4603. 104 Old River, 
Wilkes-Barre, PA 18702 
ZAREMBSKI, Michael (1) EE 606-E Mg,
683-1596. 53 Rutledge, Scarsdale, Nv 
10583
RUGS -
With vour ID cord
1000 Room-Size Rugs 
9x12s - $15, $19, $29, $39
also 6x9s, 12x12s, 12x15s, etc.
Smaller area rugs in 
Oriental, Indian & Furry 
stylesCHASE'S RUGS
4513 Liberty Ave., Bloomfield
(54-C Bus lets off at the store)
opn daily 10 to 6 p.m., Friday to 8 p.m., 
Saturday til 5 p.m.
tom INFORMATION 4 PIBtCTtONS621-1025
$2,800 TV Viewed at GSIA
by Lisa Gordon
The Advent Company has developed a 
new way to watch television; it is called the 
Advent VideoBeam Projection Color Tele
vision. On January 9, a demonstration of 
this system was given in GSIA by Tasso G. 
Spanos, President of Opus One music com
ponent systems.
Spanos explained that the product has 
the ability to do three things: it broadcasts 
regular television programs, projects video
tapes with effective stereo quality, and re
ceives video output from a computer. It is 
essentially a television set with a large 
screen enabling many people to view a 
show at one time. The curved aluminium 
screen is four and a quarter feet high and 
five and two-thirds feet wide and is being 
marketed for both home and institutional 
uses.
GSIA will purchase one or two of the 
VideoBeams specifically for more effective 
classroom use than tjie smaller convenfour foot TV screen
tional video machine presently being used. 
The problem with this old machine is that 
it is inconvenient when being viewed by 
many people. This new system has the 
advantage of having a large screen and, in 
addition, it has a large clear picture with 
much depth.
Henry Kloss of Boston designed the 
machine, which could be sold at a reason
able price and could be easily serviced. It 
sells for about $2,800. Some have already 
been sold for use in the home, and GSIA 
feels it to be a worthwhile and convenient 
system for use within the school.
We offer diverse and flexible 
careers in financial management. 
And we aim to develop managers 
whose career options broaden as 
they progress with us.
To find out more about Chase 
and to let us find out about you 
check our career literature in 
your Placement Office and sign 
up for an interview.
Campus interviews February 3
If you cant make it to an inter
view, write to Linda Verhoff at the 
address below.
CHASE MANHATTAN BANK ft
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, New York, N.Y. 10015 
An Equal Opportunity Employer
Chase Bank wants MBAs who 
need more than one way to grow.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-January 14, 1975-Page 7
Part-Tinte
JOBS
Available In 
Food Service
We Have The Hours 
To Fit Your Schedule
Apply Shi bo Food Serrici Offici* Rm 200
Starting Rate $2.00 per hour

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8THE TARTAN-January 14, 1975
PIZZA PRODUCTIONS
in either coffeehouse or concert format, 
by David Cates will be on campus every weekend.
The name Pizza Productions Presents 
The Concert and Coffeehouse commit- was coined during discussions about contees of the Activities Board have merged to cert sizes and prices (small-free
form a single enterprise, Pizza Pro- medium-50 cents, large-$l). Someone re
ductions Presents. The purpose of the marked that they sounded like pizzas, and
move, according to new AB head, Patty the name stuck. AB is still planning larger
Aerni, is to bring more music to the cam- concerts with Pacific Presentations.
Pus- Other AB programs this semester inOne result of the merger will be a series dude Mime and dance by Paul Draper and
of 4 small-scale concerts in a more intimate Jewel Walker, to be performed on January
coffeehouse atmosphere. These perform- 22. Nikki Giovanni, well-known black
ances will feature lesser-known artists of poetess, is also coming to CMU.
excellent reputation. Guitarist Charlie Byrd And if youre looking for something
will appear free in the first concert of the different, a full-scale puppet show will be
series on January 17. rolling in on March 14.
Ms. Aerni says that some type of music, For more information, pick up an AB
calendar at the Skibo Information Desk.
ENGINEERING AIDES
(STUDENTS)
SEVERAL POSITIONS LOCAL
FULL AND PART TIME 
UP TO $8,500 plus FREE TUITION
excellent chance for engineering student 
any discipline 
work with 23 professional engineers 
all benefits
WM. DEE PERSONNEL
2327 Murray Avenue 521 -4650 Pittsburgh, Pa. 15211
by Kevin Turcotte
Snowshoe Company/Slatyfork/West Virginia 26291
Reservations & Information: (3041 799-6633 Snow & Skiing Report: (304) 799-6630
Name.Name.
AddressCity------. State_
Addi essCity------
Strike?
The possibility of a strike of Food Ser
vice personnel exists at CMU. The Union, 
Local 29 of which also includes mainten
ance staff, is negotiating with the Univer
sity for renewal of their contract on Jan
uary 14.
Richard Van Horn, vice president of 
Business Affairs said, If we dont reach an 
agreement well meet again Thursday. If 
nothing comes of that, they can take it 
back to the union and take a strike vote on 
it.
Theres really no reason for a strike, 
though, he assured.
If the union does strike, the University 
has a few alternatives for students on food 
contract. The first solution involves leaving 
Skibo open and taking all of the super
visory staff and student workers from the 
other areas to fill in. It would be a bit 
crowded, but Im sure the students could 
survive, said Van Horn.
If the Union stops deliveries, then even 
Skibo will have to shut down. In that case, 
the University will refund the appropriate 
amount to contract students. Alternative 
eating facilities are available at Pitt and 
surrounding schools.
IMTYPEBIf Snowshoe is good enough for 
Killy, this I gotta ski for myself. Rush me your new brochure 
and all that other noise so I can start making plans for a 
dynamite vacation. *
photo by Ed Levine
The ne ver-tried-it-before-bu t-always- wanted-to-leam - 
how skier.
Fred (from the office) goes every season, and you're in a 
lot better shape than he isand three years younger. His 
wife, Ethel, keeps telling you how much fun it is and how easy, 
and if she can ski on those legswell...
Whatever your age or athletic ability, learning to 
ski at Snowshoe is easier than learning to swim or play tennis 
or golfand its a lot more fun besides.
You see, using our GLMGraduated Length Method 
of teaching, we start you off with easy-to-manage short 
skis. And under the patient guidance of our expertly trained 
instructors, you learn at your own pace.
Starting with your first lesson after breakfast, by 
lunchtime, you'll be skiing down our wide, gentle slopes 
and loving every minute of it. We promise. Best of all, a 
Learn to Ski vacation at Snowshoe is one thing the whole 
family can enjoy doing together.
Well, what are you waiting for. If you don't want 
to spend another winter listening to Fred and Ethel, say yes!
1YPEB
The moming-noon-and-night-sho w-me-some-slopesand-po wder-and-I 'll-be-ready-in-a-minute skier.
Snowshoe was made for you. With 4Vi miles of super 
slopes coming off a summit of 4,850 feet down through a 
vertical fall of 1.500 feetboth the highest in the region. 
When you come off the lift and start down 7,500-foot Cup 
Run, you can feel the voltage snap, crackle and pop right 
down to your boots. Zowie! Youre on the glory trail.
Best of all, Snowshoe has more snow than any other 
resort in the region. Our average annual fall is 180 inches 
(National Weather Service Data) and if Mother Nature skimps 
a little, we've got a snowmaking system that wont quit.
It makes an acre of snow 12 inches deep, every hour. And at 
Snowshoe, the temperatures are cold enough to hold it.
By the way, when youre at Snowshoe, if you see 
anybody who looks like Jean-Claude Killy, its Jean-Claude 
Killy. Hes our consultant who drops in frequently during 
the season to take on our slopes. And if theyre good enough 
for him...
I'M TYPE A Yes! If they can ski, so can we.
Rush me your new brochure today plus all the information 
I need to start planning the greatest winter vacation ever!

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-January 14, 1975-Page 9
Count the Mistakes
by Kevin Turcotte
A controversy has arisen over a poster 
featuring deformed faces and the faces of 
retarded children. The poster was designed 
by Bob Patla, a senior in the Design 
Department, and was advertising for a 
show at the Forbes Street Gallery.
The show, featuring the work of four 
senior design students, Patla among them, 
opened on January 7. That afternoon the 
posters were ordered to be taken down by 
Sue Christian, director of Student Activ
ities and Campus Programming Planning,
and Jim Bubb, director of the Forbes 
Street Gallery.
Aside from violating copyright laws and 
medical release laws, the poster was consid
ered by some students to be in bad taste.
Bubb explained why he let the poster go 
up in the first place. I told him that I 
couldnt approve of the poster, but if that 
was the image he wanted for his show he 
was welcome to it.
One student .commented, I thought it 
was a neat poster, personally.
New A Phi O locationphoto by Fred Shamlian
esolut inN.1gh.ft
minds
matter
MITRE is a place which daily faces the challenge of minds over matter, and where, 
even more importantly, minds matter a lot. Since we're a nonprofit system engineering 
company operating wholly in the public interest and dealing with tough problems 
Assigned to us by more than a score of governmental agencies, we know that our 
greatest resource is the human mind. And we know that the kind of mind we need also 
needs to know that it will be working on important problems with other professionals. 
Whats more, well be quite specific in spelling out your assignment to you. All of this 
because you matter ;.. and because at MITRE, minds matter.
We are currently seeking new graduates to work in command and control systems, 
information processing systems, electronic surveillance systems, communications 
systems,.and environmental, health and other social systems.
If youre an EE, Computer Science, Math, Operations Research, or Physics major, you 
could be workin'g on problems in telecommunications, voice communications, micro
wave and digital signal processing, educational information systems, radar design, 
propagation studies d1 advanced modulation, coding, error control and data 
compression techniques.
Or, you might want to get involved with solid waste disposal techniques, digital informa
tion systems, data handling and reduction, microprogramming techniques, data base 
structure, time sharing, text processing, management information systems, computer 
program design and development or evaluation of present day software for phase-over 
to next generation machines. These are just a few of the areas in which you might get 
involved at MITRE.
All of these positions require a minimum of a BS degree. If you have more than a 
bachelors, thats even better. Almost % of our 750 technical staff members have 
advanced degrees.
All these openings are at our corporate headquarters at Bedford, Massachusetts 
(suburban Boston). If you are interested and think you can meet our standards, send us 
your resume. Better yet, wed like to talk to you on campus. Sign up at your Placement 
Office. We'll be there on January 20 and 21.
Mr. Kenneth B. Keeler 
The MITRE Corporation 
Box 208 
Bedford, Massachusetts 01730
ONEYMITRE
CORPORATION
Equal Opportunity Employer M/F
A Phi O 
Reopens Stand
by Lisa Lieberman
Popcorn and Coke are once again avail
able during home basketball games. The 
Alpha Phi Omega service fraternity is now 
dispensing these refreshments from a new 
location in the gym, near the entrance to 
the swimming pool.
The opening of the concession stand 
was delayed because of a misunderstanding 
between Athletic Department Head Ray
mond E. Haynes and A Phi O. When A Phi 
O arrived before the first basketball game 
they were unable to get into their room 
because a second lock had been put on the 
door.
They made certain promises which 
they didnt uphold. Thats why they 
werent permitted to sell pop at the game, 
said Haynes. He explained that the room 
previously used by the fraternity had been 
converted into a co-ed weight room and 
that the Athletic Department provided 
another room which A Phi O promised to 
clean before using. While Dave Hochendoner, a member of A Phi O, claims that 
the room has been cleaned, Haynes felt 
that nothing was done.
The problem has now been cleared up, 
and both sides are willing to cooperate. At 
Saturdays game against John Carroll, pop
corn and Coke were sold.K) MINUTES OF YOUR TIME COULD SAVE A FRIENDS LIFE.
In the time it takes 
to drive your friend home, you 
could save his life.
If your friends been 
drinking too much, he shouldnt 
be driving.
The automobile crash is 
the number one cause of death 
of people your age. And the 
ironic thing is that the drunk 
drivers responsible for killing 
young people are most often 
other young people.
Take ten minutes. Or 
twenty. Or an hour. Drive your 
friend home. Thats all. If you 
cant do that, call a cab. Or let 
him sleep on your couch.
Were not asking you to 
be a doctor or a cop. Just a friend.
IF YOU LET A FRIEND DRIVE DRUNK, 
YOU'RE NO FRIEND.
U S DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION 
NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-THE TARTAN-January 14, 1975
Gister Resignation
cominjfed from page 1
Asked if the department still suffers 
from lack of physical facilities, Gister re
plied, What the department has is 100% 
better than what it had ten years ago. How 
good the department is now depends 
entirely on its faculty and students.
When a reporter suggested that his resig
nation indicates disagreement with the 
changes the department is likely to make, 
Gister denied that, saying that if he stays 
on as a faculty member, he will support 
any changes the faculty decides to make. 
Pressed further on why he did. not remal 
as department head, he said,  ... perhaps 
to remove myself from the politics of the 
situation . .. perhaps to make life for me : 
little easier at Carnegie-Mellon.
Gister declined to comment on the fivepoint Statement of Policy, saying he had 
not read it and does not want to inject his 
opinions on matters already decided by the 
department.
The document does not spell out 
specific changes the department will try to 
make, but point three does state that it 
should contribute significantly to the en
richment of the cultural life of the 
city... the CMU Drama Department 
should move forward to take its place as
PEER HELP
Students Helping Students 
Baker Hall 150A or 621-9900
the natural center of theatrical life and 
artistic regeneration in Pittsburgh.
The resignation, effective June 30, 
comes while Gister is on sabbatical, spend
ing the year with the League of Profession
al Theatre Training Programs, an agency 
which supports scholarships and fellow
ships for drama students. Baker Salsbury is 
serving as Acting Head of Drama.
The search committee consists of 
Barbara Anderson, Lawrence Carra, Paul 
Draper, Leon Katz, William Nelson, Oren 
Parker, Robert Parks, James Rosenberg, 
Jewel Walker, Arthur Wilmurt and Frederic 
Youens. All are members of the Drama 
faculty.
OAKLAND HARDWARE & TOY CO.
CMUs Convenient Headquarters for Hardware
 Desk Lamps  Key Service  Artist Brushes
 Hot Plates  Poster Paints  School Supplies
3606 FORBES AVENUEOAKLANDPhone: 621-0923
CHALLENGING POSITIONS
in Manufacturing, Research & Develop
ment, and Sales are available with FMC 
CORPORATION.JAM 15,1975Our Recruiter will be on campus 
to interview Seniors and Graduates in
CHEMICAL ENGINEERING 
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING 
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
FMC
FMC CORPORATION
' Putting Ideas to Work in 
Machinery * Chemicals * Defense * Fibers & Films
An Equal Opportunity Employer
WANTED: MANAGERS/JUNIOR EXECUTIVES
BRIGHT YOUNG MEN AND WOMEN TO ASSUME 
MANAGERIAL/EXECUTIVE POSITIONS OF CONSIDERABLE 
RESPONSIBILITY OVER PERSONNEL INVOLVED IN 
CHALLENGING, EXCITING, AND DIVERSIFIED TASKS. COLLEGE 
DEGREE REQUIRED. MUST HAVE COMPLETED THE SENIOR ROTC 
PROGRAM.
WHEN YOU GRADUATE
CAN YOU ANSWER THIS EMPLOYMENT ADVERTISEMENT?
WHAT IS THE PAY? PAY WILL COMPARE QUITE FAVORABLY 
WITH THAT OFFERED IN THE GENERAL CIVILIAN COMMUNITY. 
STARTING PAY, IF MARRIED, WILL BE THE EQUIVALENT OF A 
$10,300 ANNUAL SALARY.
WHAT ARE THE BENEFITS? A SUBSTANTIAL NUMBER, IN
CLUDING COMPLETE MEDICAL AND DENTAL CARE FOR YOU. 
MEDICAL CARE FOR YOUR FAMILY (IF YOU'RE MARRIED), THIR
TY DAYS PAID ANNUAL LEAVE, 9 PAID HOLIDAYS, LOW COST 
LIFE INSURANCE, AN OUTSTANDING RETIREMENT PLAN, JOB 
SECURITY. REGULAR PROMOTIONS AND PAY INCREASES.
THE ROTC PROGRAM AT CMU WILL HELP COLLEGE STUDENTS TO QUALIFY 
FOR THE EMPLOYMENT DECRIBED ABOVE: AS COMMISSIONED OFFICERS IN 
THE US ARMY RESERVES OR IN THE REGULAR ARMY.
FOR MORE INFORMATION, WRITE, PHONE, OR VISIT:
CAPTAIN GREG NOSAL 
DIRECTOR FOR ENROLLMENT 
DEPARTMENT OF MILITARY SCIENCE 
ROOM 203, GYMNASIUM 
621-2600, EXTN 281/282
REMEMBER: ENROLLMENT IN THE ROTC PROGRAM DOES NOT
NECESSARILY OBLIGATE YOU TO BECOME AN OFFICER OR TO SERVE IN THE 
ARMY. SO, LOOK IT OVER -
THE MORE YOU LOOK AT ROTC, THE BETTER IT LOOKS

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-January 14, 1975-Page 11
BNAI BRITH HILLEL JEWISH 
UNIVERSITY CENTER
COURSES FOR FUN AND KNOWLEDGE*
Course:
Instructor:
Place:
Time:
Begins:
SUNDAY
Intermediate Hebrew 
Victor Baruh 
Hillel Library 
6:30 p.m.
January 12
MONDAY
SUNDAY
Course: Chasidic Interpretations
of the Bible
Place: Hillel Lounge
Time: 4:30 p.m.
Begins: January 12
TUESDAY
Course: Conversational Yiddish
Instructor: Ida Selaven
Course: The Discovery of Roots
Instructor: Rabbi Phillip Sigal 
Place: Hillel Library Place: Hillel Library
Time: 7:30-9:00 p.m. Time: 7:30 p.m.
Begins: Jan. 13-Feb. 3 and Begins: January 14
Mar. 3-Mar. 24 (No lectures 
Feb. 10-Feb. 24)
WEDNESDAY
Course: Israeli Dancing
Hillel Lounge 
Place: 7:00-8:00 p.m. Beginning
Time: 8:00-10:00 p.m. Advanced
Begins: Date to be announced
Course:
Instructor:
Place:
Time:
Begins:
THURSDAY
Elementary Hebrew 
Victor Baruch 
Hillel Library 
7:30 p.m.
January 16
* Free to all students on the Pittsburgh campuses 
315 S. Bellefield Avenue (Across from Heinz Chapel)
621-8875
Student Workers 
Wages Increase
continued from page 1
How will these new standards affect the 
approximately 1200 students who work 
for Food Service? Rita Cohen, director of 
Food Service, notes that minimum wages 
for student employees, long pegged at 
$1.75, will rise to $2.00 this semester, as 
part of an effort to hire more help. Cohen 
planned the raise to make Food Service 
employment more attractive, and to re
ward loyal employees, as well as to comply 
with Federal standards.
Cohen conceded that the raise in start
ing salary, fifteen cents above what the 
wage law requires, could put some strain 
on her budget. She had not anticipated 
such an increase, but she hopes that more 
students will work for Food Service, and 
that the larger staff will make the whole 
operation more efficient, thus taking some 
of that strain off her budget.
The situation is rather different for 
another student employer on campus, the 
libraries. Director of University Libraries 
Ruth Corrigan stated that, while the librar
ies must comply with Federal standards, 
the government itself lends a hand with 
paying student employees. For all students 
who work under a Federal work-study pro
gram, the government presently pays 80 
percent of the students wages; the libraries 
pay the other 20 percent'. Starting wages 
for library work, like those for Food Ser
vice, are $2.00. The portion of library 
wages paid by CMU has not varied over the 
years, although the actual amount has risen 
in step with government standards.
Bothner-By 
Resigns
continued from page 1
due modesty, the best in the world.
Both Schatz and Bothner-By emphasiz
ed the difficulties facing academic science.
Science is under some real assault right 
now, with reduction in outside financial 
support and to an extent, a reduction in 
the number of students, enrolled, said 
Schatz.
The MIS faculty has shrunk by about 
25% since 1968, according to Bothner-By. 
who said, That was primarily achieved by 
not replacing faculty members at the junior 
level. Im concerned about the future of 
our college ... if we dont replace old 
fogies like myself, the place is going to 
shrivel and dry up and drop off the vine. 
He was hopeful, however, that research in 
energy production, health care, and the 
food supply will win scientists more indus
trial and governmental support.
Dean of Humanities and Social Scien
ces Erwin Steinberg and Dean of the 
School of Urban and Public Affairs William 
Cooper resigned last semester. The admin
istration has not yet announced who will 
replace them.
Theres nothing to be read into the 
three resignations at all, said Schatz, ex
cept that it means a lot of extra work for 
the provosts and the President right now.
WHAT'S THE A.B. DOING 
THIS SEMESTER?
CONCERTS AND COFFEEHOUSES LECTURES
Nikki Giovanni - Black Poetess 
Animation Night 
Paul Draper/Jewel Walker 
Evening of Entertainment 
Luncheon Forums v
TGIFFriday Afternoons 
NEW TECHNICAL COMMITTEE
3- vTo operate and maintain sound and light systems
PLUS LOTS MORE . . .
(Watch the Activities Calendar for Dates and times of the above events)
LIKE TO GET INVOLVED?
Contact the different committees separately or leave your name, number, and committee 
interest(s) in care of Patty Aerni at Skibo Info Desk.
Committee Meetings (come if interested) Lectures - Wed. Jan. 15,5 p.m., Skibo 57
Coffeehouse Thursday Jan. 16 Anytime between 11-1 Skibo 57 Fi|m$ . Contact Lorraine Weisbrot at Skibo Info Desk
Concerts - Thursday Jan. 16 4:30 Skibo 57 TGIF - Come early to a TGIF
"Pizza Production Presents 
A coffee house or concert every 
possible wekend. (Watch for 
the pizza posters)
Spring Carnival Concert
MOVIES
Serpico
The Way We Were
The Sorrow and the Pity
Scarecrow

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-THE TARTAN-January 14, 1975
RAISING HELL
???????????????????????????
Only the barest of essentials are required. 
Just let us glimpse a mother (in this case, 
its a lovely Jennifer Jones), worried about 
her two children locked in a fire-bound 
room and well empathize. The suspense 
stems from the situation; the impact, from 
the stars.
Paul Newman and Steve McQueen look 
consistenly earnest and forthright (though 
must Mr. Newman be so co-ordinated that 
his clothes match the painted orange trim 
of his helicopter?). Richard Chamberlain 
renders such an unlikeable performance as 
villainous son-in-law that one ex
pects his tongue to be forked. Intuition 
should have told him to play against the 
grain of character type. William Holden 
dimensions his role with a rounder, more 
human range. Robert Vaugnh, as Senator 
Gary Parker, seems particularly non
partisan about his portrayal, tapping none 
of the intriguing possibilities open to the 
character. Susan' Blakely is appropriately 
spoiled as Holdens devoted daughter, 
I would like to have seen her exdarker hues of an Electra commildly hinted at. As Newmans 
Faye Dunaway might have given a 
complex performance had she been granted 
more to do. She is as enigmatic a sex object 
as one could wish for, with challenging 
eyes that appear not so much promising as 
hopeless. Also on hand is that durable fix
ture of disasters, Maureen McGovern, sing
ing the lilting and somewhat ominous We 
May Never Love Like This Again.
Irwin Allens direction is spare and 
craftsmanlikehe only includes one or two 
unnecessary bodies on fire. The suspense is 
beautifully structured in individual 
sequences, but is rather strained when the 
picture is viewed as a whole. Fundamental
ly episodic, The Towering Inferno is uni
fied by unfortunate dialogue which lags or 
floats by, nearly negligible, rarely rising to 
the momentum of the physical action.
The ending is suspicious and summed up 
too quickly, as if to rush us into believing 
the fantastic, final solution. Mr. Allen, 
shrewdly aware that after three hours the 
audience would be exhausted and ready for 
a neat answer, has pulled us up short, skip
ping matter-of-factly by the questions of 
method and consequence. Too many com
plications are neglected in the transition 
from chaos to order. Modern crises are not 
mythical, and, unlike fairy tales, they are 
not permitted such easy, unqualified rites 
of passage.
Still, The Towering Inferno vividly re
veals the contradiction between the appear
ance of a building and its content. The 
amazing structure is nothing more than a 
classy shell, with a limited capacity to sus
tain itself during disaster; a model of 
efficiency that is lost at-the First sign of 
stress. Producer Irwin Allen delivers an ur
gent, positive call to arms. Unless we equip 
our buildings with secure defense systems, 
our shelters will remain as vulnerably un
safe as our streets. As it stands now, people 
who live in glass towersshouldnt.
by Mark Evan Chimsky
Spectaculars must be judged on their 
own terms. The best are documentary-like, 
sparing us the superfluous, petty dynamics 
of someone's love life in favor of the real 
drama-the crashing, the sinking, or in the 
case of The Towering Inferno, the burning 
of a sophisticated glass skyscraper on the 
eve of its dedication ceremonies. This cor
porate colossus is essentially a land-locked 
Titanic lavish, lauded, and virtually im
mune to disaster, which, as we all know, 
is the kind of quote that virtually courts 
calamity. This time round its Paul New
man as the architect and Steve McQueen as 
the firefighter and luckily, we find out 
little more about them than that. Producer 
Irwin Allen has wisely opted to concen
trate on the life of the profligate fire, keep
ing the dimensions of the all-star stellar 
cast to a minimum.
I recall a TV newscast of the late sixties 
depicting a Vietnamese mother cradling her 
charred baby and raging at the holocaust 
around hera snapshot image that will re
main with me forever, and yet what did I 
know of this woman beyond th? searing 
pieta she so briefly created? What more did 
I need to know? The barest composition 
may make the most powerful drama. And 
so The Towering Inferno is successful be
cause of the climate, and not necessarily 
the characters, it creates.
The film has its share of suspense, but is 
intent on shocking us with truth rather 
than frightening u$ with invented detail. 
The sensationalism here is sparse, with the 
focus veering to the standard (and thus, 
more horrible), facts of fire prevention. 
The film stakes its firmest claim in our own 
technical frailties. It exposes the old ethic, 
biggest is best, as a naive and potentially 
dangerous belief. We hunger for Olympian 
proportions without equal concern for the 
less aesthetic, practical provisions that may 
insure- our safety. We soar hundreds of 
stories merely for the awesome effect of it 
all, and it is this promotion of proportion 
that Allen capitalizes on. We watch fire
men, whose truck-ladders and equipment 
are incapable of scaling more than nine 
flights, attempt to quash a fire that begins 
its scourge on the 81st floor,-holding hun
dreds of distinguished party-goers captive 
in a penthouse ballroom. The incidents the 
thing, wherein our consciences are caught.
The fire steals the picture with an insid
iousness that turns bravura. McQueen and a 
force of fire-fighters are impotent against 
the tyranny of a fire that seizes elevators 
and stairwells in blind fury. Their axes and 
hoses overwhelmed, the men are now faced 
with devising strategies which will save 
lives before time is lost.
McQueen is like a magician, whose in
genuity is failed by an unresponsive aud
ience. Those trapped become carelessly 
greedy for survival. The flames shatter win
dows and rationale; tempers flare, then 
peak. It is a time for heroes-and who 
better than that blue-eyed duo, McQueen
Paul Newman and Faye Dunaway 
discussing fire prevention.
and Newman? They have exhausted an 
array of resources; a breeches buoy, heli
copter savior service, and cables to man
euver a skyview elevator to the ground. All 
tricks have singed the sleeve. Because the 
initial budget for building costs was trim
med, the gargantuan tower proves increas
ingly fallible. We are a public that takes the 
technics of high-rises for granted; fireproofing just seems to come along with the 
territory of expansive lobbies and expen
sive rents.
The Towering Inferno shakes our com
placency with a well-calculated, graphic 
energy. A perfectly realized moment comes 
midway through the film when Robert 
Wagner, as some sort of very important 
executive, takes leave of his pristine mis
tress (Susan Flannery) to brave the im
minent flames. Ms. Flannery stands alone, 
isolated in the empty office/boudoir. 
Though the room is spacious, we feel it 
grow tense with the approaching heat; 
slowly, the walls seem to close in, as if 
strangled by the fire outside. We clock the 
claustrophobic moments, anticipate the in
evitable horror, and share in the terrible 
gasp that sounds the final entrapment. She 
shudders and we feel. It is the kind of 
honest, helpless action that we do not 
easily forget.
The film gets off to a rather sloppy 
start. The opening scenes drag and are dis
turbingly muddled in their focus. Author 
Stirling Silliphant seems put off by clean 
expositions and instead, prefers to intro
duce an assortment of cloyingly insipid 
relationships. The action seems to pick up, 
commanded by keen vitality and assurance, 
which isnt surprising since they were sep
arately directed by Irwin Allen. John 
Guillermins handling of the dramatic 
scenes is in league with the maudlin mater
ial hes saddled with. Silliphants inter
mittent dialogue is stock, yet necessary; a 
formality that gives the actors an excuse to 
speak.
Like other distress epics, we root pri
marily for the personalities presented. The 
characters are deliberately sketchy, pur
posely without human shading. One can 
almost hear .the director whisper that its 
up to the stars to fill in all gaps and, if they 
desire, play themselves. Who cares if Fred 
Astaire is supposed to be Harlee Claiborne, 
a con man with a heart of gold?-he is 
charming and agile and debonair as ever 
and thats all that matters. We pray for 
Fred Astaire to be saved from the im
patient flames. Who even bothers to re
member the name Claiborne?
The dominance of star over role is much 
like the poetic license of disaster films.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANJanuary 14, 1975Page 13
THE BEST and the SLIGHTEST
by Arnie Karr LEAST LIKELY TO SUCCEED - AM erica
MOST ENTERTAINING MOMENT - 
The New Year means little but parades Nixons resignation, August 8 
and bowl games on television. The Emmy LEAST COHESIVE MOMENT - Nixons 
Awards are still months away and most TV farewell to his staff, August 9 
critics wont be picking their favorites until LEAST ENTERTAINING MOMENTS - . 
then, but, since I dont vote in that elec- Ford in Japan, South Korea and Russia 
tion and since people seem to enjoy being BEST COSTUME DESIGN  Lets Make a
reminded that 1974 was just a 365-day j)ea[ (and without Edith Head!)
mistake in our past, Im offering my selec- LEAST EFFECTIVE IMITATION - 
tions now. Thats My Mama
BEST SHOW  M*A *S*H SHOW WITH MOST FUNK - Soul Train
BEST NEW SHOW - Rhoda SHOW WITH WORST NEED FOR A DOLMOST ENDURING SHOW - Mary Tyler BY NOISE REDUCTION SYSTEM - MidMoore night Special
MOST DISAPPOINTING SHOW - All in NEWS PROGRAM LEAST LIKELY TO 
the Family PICK UP YOUR SPIRITS  Newscaster
MOST IMPROVED SHOW  Bob Newhart Chris Chubbucks on-the-air suicide 
MOST OVERRATED SHOW - Chico and BEST ELECTION COVERAGE - CBS, 
the Man with Walter Cronkite
MOST UNDERRATED SHOW - Paper BgST LATE NIGHT TALK SHOW - 7oMoon morrow
BEST ACTOR - Alan Alda (M*A *S*H) BEST MOVE - Dick Cavett to CBS 
BEST ACTRESS - Mary Tyler Moore M0ST MEANINGLESS ACTION -
(MTM) Another World becomes first full hour soap
BEST SUPPORTING ACTOR - Edward opera
Asner (MTM) GREEDIEST NEW GAME SHOW - The
BEST SUPPORTING ACTRESS  Julie Diamond Head Game
Kavner(Rhoda) MOST MENOPAUSAL GAME SHOW'
BEST COUPLES - Valerie Harper and PANEL MEMBER - Kitty Carlisle
David Groh (Rhoda), Esther Rolle and r  P.  Jeopardy, Sonny and Cher, Sonny
John Amos (Good Times) an(j Cher, Sonny Ed Sullivan
BIGGEST FAMILY - The Waltons
BEST SPECIAL - The Missiles of October Happy New Year! I hope.
ARE YOU A SON OF A B
Or An .A,0,AB. If So, We Can Use You In Our Plasma 
Program. Presently we are using many students in Our 
Physician Supervised Plasma Donation.
You Can Help Contribute Plasma Needed For Such 
Products as: Factor 8 for Hemophilia, Gamma Globulin, 
Serum Albumin, Vaccines and Diagnostic Reagents.
For Your Time and Contribution 
You Can Earn $60.00 Per Month.
Call Us At 682-3190 For Full Details.
SERA-TEC BIOLOGICALS
3407-09 Forbes Ave.
Pittsburgh. Pa- 15213
Hours: 8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m.
Mon.-Fri.
Miles Davis has been one of the premier As tender and sensitive as the first side 
leaders of jazz for the past three decades. is, it is only a subtle warm-up to side two.
His sound and his style have become an Yes, its side two that really gets the album
acknowledged chapter of modern music. out of second gear. Maiysha is the cut
As a band leader, he is perhaps the most that will wake any listener up. The beat is
influential artist on the scene today. The catchy, almost a bit reminiscent of Herbie
trends that he sets make him one of the Hancocks Head Hunters. There are three
most sought-after acts in jazz. As a guitar players to listen to on this track, and they
musician, he is recognized as one of the top really bring the music alive. Miles trumpet
trumpet players in the entire world. playing combined with Michael Henderson
The latest effort by Miles is a new excit- on bass add the final dimension. Maiysha
ing double record entitled Get Up/ With It. leads nicely into the raw Honky Tonk.
This release is unique for the sole reason This cut is gutsy, at times even sexy, but
that all of the songs differ so drastically oh, how it moves. It glides the way Marvin
from each other. There are whole sides of Gaye would, if he were singing for a small
light, free-form jazz combined with tight, southern church on Sundays. Next comes
highly organized small jazz-rock pieces. Rated X which will score high with any
What lends even more character to this modern avant-garde jazz fan. This cut goes
record is the spiritual sound that Miles deeper into the free form than anything up
achieves. There seems to be a quiet soulful to this point.
balance that is constantly maintained in Everything musical gets raked over the 
the background, adding an effective inten- coals on side three. The title of this cut is
sity to the record. Calypso Freiimo. Though the title sugGet Up/With It is dedicated to the late gests calypso music, its actually a lot closDuke Ellington. This dedication provides a er to African roots. David Liebman shines
superbly here, making his flute sound like 
primitive African reeds. His duets with 
Miles are fascinating listening, with light 
keyboard work by Miles encouraging the 
extensive mood changes. Calypso stays 
clean and easy. Its super-soft trumpet solos 
by Miles make this side the easiest to ap
preciate.
Floating from side three to side four is 
no simple act. Side four kicks off with the 
surprise of surprises, Red China Blues, a 
downright blues number. Wally Chambers 
plays a super harmonica that reminds me 
of John Mayall a bit. Guitarist Cornell 
Dupree provides the smart funky rhythm. 
Miles comes on strong with his trumpet 
blaring against the counterpoint melody. 
This is followed by Mtume. Mtume is 
dedicated to the same percussion player 
who does such a fine job on this album. All 
this concludes with Billy Preston, ob
viously written for the keyboard star of 
pop music. The album ends here with a 
high note bankmg on free-form jazz.
When everything has been hashed over, 
youll agree that Miles Davis has again 
close link between Miles and the Master of found a unique, new niche of sound. Get
Jazz. If music could be scored tor a meet- Up/With It displays some amazing direcing at the gates of heaven between these tions and areas of music, directly contrasttwo great artists, it would most likely ing t^e free-form polyrhythms against the
sound like Get Up/With It. highly developed blues. If spirit in the sky
Some of the jazz world s greatest could be recorded, it wouid be recorded, it
musicians come to pay their respects. John wouid S0Und like Get Up With It.
McLaughlin, Herbie Hancock and Billy 
Cobham add great depth to the impressive 
list of personnel. The big difference be
tween Miles Davis and other band leaders is 
the fact that Miles doesnt stop looking for 
new talent. Most performers are content to 
stay with a certain group, once a certain 
sort of success is achieved. Miles has always 
believed in searching out bold new direc
tions. His latest effort is no exception. Us
ing sitar and tablas. Miles seeks out a 
framework dealing with an Indian kind of 
jazz. Its a dazzling idea that provokes dif
ferent chains of thoughts
Side one is contained in one number,
He Loved Him Madly. Its a slow, but 
very moody, evolving piece. The title is a 
direct reference to the Duke. Marked with 
soft African percussion, He Loved Him 
Madly conveys a quiet beauty that re
bounds with a definite eerie feeling.
PEERHELPb ZO O r* * _ 
BH150 A

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14-THE TARTAN-January 14, 197b
FILLERS
Compiled by S.R. Kimbell
ADMISSION FREE C-MU I.D. Required
"Printed as a public service of the TARTAN"
SPRING 1975
All Films in Doherty Hall 2210; 6 - 8:30 -11 p.m.
DATE TITLE-STARS
January 18 THE APRIL FOOLS (95 Min.)
Jack Lemmon, Catherine Deneuve; Dir. - Stuart 
Rosenberg
25 AFRICAN QUEEN (103 min.)
Humphrey Bogart, Katherine Hepburn; Dir.
John Huston
Feb. 1 WILD BUNCH (135 min.)
William Holden, Ernest Borgnine; Dir. - Sam 
Peckinpah
8 SOMETIMES A GREAT NOTION (114 min,)
Paul Newman, Henry Fonda; Dir. - Paul Newman
15 WESTWORLD (88 min.)
Yul Brynner, Richard Benjamin; Dir. - Michael 
Crichton
25 SKYJACKED (101 min.)
(Tue.) Charlton Heston, Yvette Mimieux; Dir. - John
Guillermin
Mar. 1 MAGNIFICENT SEVEN (127 min.)
Yul Brynner, Steve McQueen; Dir. - Charles Lang, Jr.
8 PAPER MOON (102 min.)
Ryon O'Neal, Madeline Kahn; Dir.- Peter 
Bogdanovich
15 SECRET WAR OF HARRY FRIGG (110 min.)
Paul Newman, Sylvia Koscina; Dir.- Jack Smight
Apr. 5 THEATRE OF BLOOD (120 min.)
Vincent Price, Diane Rigg; Dir. - Douglas Hickox
12 LIFE AND TIMES OF JUDGE ROY BEAN (120
min.) Paul Newman, Ava Gardner; Dir. - John 
Huston
18&19 DELIVERANCE (109 min.)
Jon Voight, Burt Reynolds; Dir. -John Boorman
26 ARSENIC AND OLD LACE (118min.)
Cary Grant, Josephine Hull; Dir.- Frank Capra
BNfll BRJIH HILLEL-JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
Pin HILLEL CLUBS
BAGEL AND LOX 
BRUNCH
SUNDAY, JANUARY 19
11A.M.
2nd Floor Lobby of the Jewish Community Center 
(formerly Y-IKC) 
$1.00 for food or just come 
for the Program on 
LUBAVITCH H ASSI D ISM 
315 S. Bellefield Avenue (Across from Heinz Chapel ) 
621-8875
I am not hungry this week so this week 
I decline from eating for anyone. There
fore, the following items that, for one or 
another reason, couldnt be used at the end 
of an article.
Consolidated ElsieTexas Highway 
officials suggested that the answer to the 
nations energy problems is cow burps. 
According to ecologists, cows burp 
50,000,000 tons of hydrocarbons into the 
atmosphere every year, and ten cows burp 
enough gas in one year to provide all the 
space-heating, water-heating, and cooking 
requirements for a small house.
3000 frogs battled in Malaysias annual 
frog war. Malaysians believe frog wars pre
cede national disasters, and one spectator 
reported that this years confrontation was
the biggest so far.
Several British manufacturers are selling 
neckties that advertise the wearer as having 
had a vasectomy. One carries the initials 
JOFB (I only fire blanks) another a large1 
V flanked by two rugby balls.
In response to the beef shortage, Sen
ator Humphrey urged Americans to eat one 
less hamburger a week. Countering Hum
phreys suggestion,Agriculture Secretary 
Earl Butz called instead for the slaughter of 
half of the nations 62,000,000 dogs, cats, 
and horses.
A woman in Nottingham England lost 
47 lbs. after she had her dentist cement her 
jaws together.
When Nixon was President he pro-1 
claimed May Older Americans Month,* 
saying the nation possesses no greater 
natural resource than the collective wisdom 
and experience of its senior citizens.'In a 
second proclamation, Nixon also des
ignated May as National Arthritis Month 
Rick Morrow, a 6 foot, 1 inch brunette, 
has been chosen the first male homecoming 
queen at Bowling Green State University.
Dr. Joyce Brothers asked a fellow pass
enger on a trans-continental flight to ex
tinguish his cigar. Ill vomit in your lap if 
you dont, she said. When the plane landed, 
Dr. Brothers stepped,-bn his foot, threw a 
bag full of air sickness at him and said,  I 
hope youre satisfied.
STUDENTS DORM COUNCIL SATURDAY FILM SERIES
Edy Wiliams, the woman determined to 
become the next unforgettable sex symbol, 
has insured her breasts for $1,000,000.
Boston University student Jimmie Artis 
filed a petition to change his name, claim
ing there are too many people named Jim
mie. Artis wants to be called Sir Adolf 
Hitler. People sure will take plenty of 
notice, he said.
Londoner John Michael Bradley, 25,
was iurned away from St. Charles Hospital 
when he asked attendents to cut off his 
right arm because. God told him to. Brad
ley returned soon after with his arm sev
ered, explaining that hed let a train run
f\Av\A 
Illustrated by Patla 
over it in order to obey Gods command.
The Malaysian government has 
threatened to deport shabbly dressed men, 
braless women, and all persons with awful 
body odor
The film The Exorcist was not sub
mitted to South Aftican censor because 
they would have died on the spot. The 
Johannesburg- Regional Court was told this 
in a case about other matters.
These fillers are compiled from Esquire, 
The New York Times, and the Columbia 
Journalism Review.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANJanuary 14, 1975Paqe 15
MYTHS and LEGENDS
by Susan N. Klein
Did you ever flatter yourself with the 
knowledge that so many famous people 
went to Carnegie-Mellon? Each department 
has its own Whos Who of legendaries who 
illuminated this campus; every name bears 
with it a collection of gossip; juicy and 
sometimes slanderous. It is our very own 
folklore, we go to the same school as Max
well Smarts girlfriend.
I know two stories about why Andy 
Warhol didnt graduate. One is that Andy 
Warhol went on a rampage in Fine Arts and 
painted his name in fuchsia under all the 
steps leading from the basement to the 
Music Department Mezzanine. The other is 
that Andy Warhol took a Yield sign down 
from Margaret Morrison Street, repainted it 
to say Andy Warhol, then replaced it. 
Each of these stories ends the same way: 
the 1950s Dean of Fine Arts saw fit to 
deport this paint-crazed maniac, blind to 
the genius in the young mans oeuvre.
| Personally, I dont believe either of the 
stories, but they are relished by the art 
majors I heard them from, Andy Warhol 
being the Art Departments Legend, sort of 
like a fraternity mascot.
One cold December night we took 
refuge in a theatre on West 44th street in 
New York which was showing preview per
formances of Andy Warhols new musical. 
Man on the Moon (Kiddies Invited-Half 
Price). Before sitting down in our SI i.50 
seats, we decided to have a cigarette in the 
lobby and see if Joe Dellesandro would be 
in attendance, if Ultra Violet would come 
back from the dead, or at the very least, 
Viva. A lot of Bisexual Chic-looking poeple 
arrived in their threesomes; a lot of 
Glitter-bedecked skinny hermaphrodites 
paraded by (totally unaware of how passe 
they were); the actress, Rachel Roberts did 
come (straight from Murder on the Orient 
Express), giving us a momentary buzz of 
Fame in Our Midst, but no one from Pink 
Flamingos, or even Trash showed. My 
friend reported that the mens room was 
pitch black and that a mysterious someone 
was lurking in a stall therein, but aside 
from that, the theatre held about as many 
exciting persons as Mack & Mabel up the 
block. We slumped down hard in our seats 
as the orchestra struck up a light-hearted, 
toe-tapping boring overture.
Even though they can get in half-price, 
not one kiddie was present in the twothirds-empty theatre. There was a dwarf 
woman, though, accompanied by two 
handsome gay blades, and we wondered if 
she got in for half-price too. A Mad 
Scientist came onstage and sang about how 
he was Werner Von Braun and responsible 
for rockets. Monique Van Vooren came on 
with much cleavage, singing about how she 
lived on another planet. Around this time I 
looked up and noticed that the man stand
ing next to me in the aisle was Andy War
hol.
We watched, transfixed, as he slid into a 
seat two rows directly in front of us. For 
the next half hour we forgot we were in a 
theatre; we were content in the knowledge 
that we had paid $11.50 to stare at the 
back of Andy Warhols head.
The head has creamy frosted hair that 
hangs in thick long strands and there are 
black roots underneath. Andy Warhols 
head squirmed way down into the sheep
skin coat around his shoulders, and he 
never turned away from the stage. The 
hhow continued. A spaceman with high
"Andy Warhol"
cheekbones sang off-key the atrocious 
melodies by John Phillips of The Mamas 
and the Papas. Lines ftpm California 
Dreamin'  and Monday, Monday are 
not included in Man on the Moon. A love 
song with lines like I feel like a sardine/I 
feel clean, are, however, fairly typical of 
the show, which ran two-and-a-half hours 
without intermission. The only time we 
applauded was when a weary-eyed couple 
sitting near us walked out. In a demon
stration of impeccable taste, Andy Warhol 
refrained from applauding most of the 
musical numbers. Unlike the guffawing 
gentleman beside him, who, by the way, 
revealed himself to be Paul Morrissey in the 
ample flesh Andy Warhol looked quite em
barrassed about the show. (For Andy War
hols sake, it should be noted that he is 
financially, though not artistically connect
ed with Man on the Moon: Andy Warhol 
presents. . . ).
Gene Feist, who is now director/ 
producer of The Roundabout Theatre 
Company in New York, was Andy Warhols 
friend and classmate at the then Carnegie 
Tech, and asserts that while at school, 
Andy Warhol was like a bunny rabbit. He 
worked in his room, never went out, and 
was painfully shy. The girls used to want to 
mother him, cuddle him, bring him pre
sents. Feist says the legends of the paintcrazed Andy Warhol are myths.
When the finale of Man on the Moon,
Graphic by Ron Wiggins
which included a midget in a red box. Miss 
America and a cardboard Dames at Sea 
imitation set, was over, Andy Warhol stood 
up after not applauding. He turned around 
and his albino-like eyes did not look at all 
pleased behind his wire-frame glasses. Not 
many people noticed him; one or two artstudent-looking people shook his hand as 
he smiled and looked down at the floor. I 
prefer to think that Andy Warhol looked 
down at the floor because hes so shy, and 
not because he realized he would lose a 
fortune on the show.
A few days before Man on the Moon, I 
was in a discotheque and met Truman 
Capote, who was very personable, and who 
did not attend Carnegie-Mellon.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-THE TARTAN-January 14, 1975
CMU Activities Calendar Available Free 
at the Information Desk 
Bring Your ID

JANUARY 19 75sun DAYmonsunTUESDAY1 WEDnESDAY1 THURSDAYFRI DAYSATURDAY
1 
*
234
56
Registration7
Classes Begin
3 00pm PH 100 
Lect Iconic and 
Linguistic Signs
8.30pm Breed HaM 
Opera Preludes La Boheme
8
8 00pm Gym 
Basket bar
CMU vs Case Western
9
8:00pm FA Theatre 
"Under One Roof"
Music, Dance,Theatre 
Pgh. 99c Floating Theatre
10
8 00pm FA Theatre 
"Under One Roof"
11
8:00pm FA Theatre 
"Under One Roof"
8 00pm Gym
Basketball
CMU vs J.Carroll
12
5:15 Alpine Arena 
Hockey CMU v* Penn 
St/Mck
8:00pm FA Theatre 
"Under One Roof"
131415
8 00pm Gym
Basketball
CMU vs Bethany
16
4 30 PH 100 
Film "Streseman"
17
3 30pm GSIA319 
Toward A Theory of 
Charismatic Leadership
8 30pm Skibo Ballrm 
Charlie Byrd in Concert,A.B
18
8 00pm Exhibition Hall 
Piano Lyric of Gabriel 
Faure Lect/Recital
19
3:00pm Janau Arena 
Hockey CMU vs St Francis
2021
7 30pm Wherrett Rm 
"People vs Nature" 
Votker Hartkopf 
Architecture
22
8 30pm Ski bo Ballrm 
Evening of Entertainment 
with Paul Draper. Jewel 
Walker
23
9 00pm Wherrett Rm
AB Coffeehouse
12 30 Wherrett Rm 
Prof H Olds. Drawing 
D mo/Discussion
24
9 00pm Wherrett Rm 
AB Coffeehouse25
1 00pm Civic Arena 
Hockey CMU vs Ind 
9 00pm Wherrett Rm 
AB Coffeehouse
26
8 P0pm Cam Mus Hall 
CMU /Community Orch 
Thomas Michalak .Cond 
8 00pm Fof Info X268 
UN HOMME ET UNE 
FEMME 
(A Man and a Woman) 
French Film Series
27
12 30pm Wherrett Rm 
Marijuana: What Does 
It Really Do To You?
Dr.Lewis Harris, U. of Vir.
28
7:30pm Wherrett Rm 
Rap Who. Why. When 
How
29
7 30pm Wherrett Rm 
'Christianity & the 
University'* I.V.C.F.
8 00pm Gym
B.tskertwH CMU vs W J
H 30 wn B<<#>
C .unbcr MusW^onc^rt
30
12 30pm Wherrett Rm 
Marijuana Is It Only An 
Illegal Activity?
31
FOR PROGRAM DETAILS 
SEE LAST PAGE
1AM 'ANY
This announcement is brought to you by: The Tartan and University Graphics

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANJanuary 14, 1975Page 17
Cacers KO CaseSwimmers Impress In First Meet
y Roger Geddes
Carnegie Mellons winning streak was. 
ery short as they fell to the John Carroll 
Blue Streaks last Saturday after winning 
their first game of the season a few days 
eWer against Case Western Reserve. John 
Carroll came from behind to win 83-74 in 
overtime while the Tartans handled Case 
Western Reserve for the second year in a 
row at home, 63-59. The Tartans, who lost 
their first three games of the season, now 
stand at 1-4 overall and 1-1 in the Presi
dents Athletic Conference.
CMU came within thru seconds of winn2 two consecutive games in a row for 
tKT fifSt ti1116 in many years. However, a 
jump shot by Dennis Hodges of John Carr
oll that barely missed being blocked drop
ped in in to tie the score, 70-70, three 
seconds before the final buzzer. In what 
was probably their most exciting game of 
the season, it remained very close with 
CMU leading at halftime, 34-31. The Tar
tars, now beginning to play well toge er, 
sS-tched their lead to seven points with
for the past years. His partner is in the 
backcourt, Dave Wukich, has also been 
very impressive. His 18 points against Car
roll and 15 against Case topped CMU both 
times. Wukich, an outstanding Penn Mall 
Academy guard where he average 15.8 
points per game, is a fine shooter with 
excellent moves. Ward and Wukich look to 
be thejjuard combination of the future.
In their victory over Case, the Tartans 
played their best game of the season. Com
bining good ball handling with agg
ressiveness on the boards game them an 
early ten point lead in the first half. Case 
pulled within one at the half and then 
scored six straight points in the second half 
to lead for the first time in the game. The 
young Tartan team did not loose their poise, 
however, and came back to the score. 
Two foul shots by Derringer with 1:58 left 
and a key steal by Wukich put the Tartans 
in front to stay and gain that always elusive 
first victory of the season. Starting center 
Paul Hamerly played one of his better
By Diane Maddock
The CMU swimming team started the 
New Year with an air of optimism. 
Although they lost the meet to last years 
PAC champs, Allegheny, Coach Crist saw 
substantial improvement in his swimmers. 
In addition to competing with league 
leaders the CMU swimmers had to compete 
against once again, a school that recruits 
swimmers and offers scholarships. But this 
did not dampen the teams spirits.
Many of the swimmers disregarded the 
high odds placed against them and set out 
to do their best. For example, Sophmore 
Billy Gregg almost broke the record for
200 yards free style with a time of 1:59:6. 
Coach Crist cited Rookie Swimmer Jeff 
Blands performance when he swam the 50 
yard free style in 23.5. An Allegheny Swi
mmer, Moroski set a pool record for the IM 
200 yards with his time of 2:10:0.
The team is looking forward to their 
next two meets when theyll be on the 
road against Slippery Rock on Wednesday, 
January 15 and at Hiram on Saturday, Jan. 
18 at 2:00 p.m. The team returns home to 
face Washington and Jefferson on Jan. 25, 
2:00 p.m. Coach Crist is expecting a vic
tory at this meet.
sports
UNIVERSITY COPY SERVICE
209 N. CRAIG ST. 681-5411
HIGHEST QUALITY . . .
sharp permanent XEROX copies 
on 20 lb. bond paper Ot customer's 
own letterhead
Lowest Prices ...
(per original)
Ac.....................1st copy
3.................. 2-20 copies
2<....................21 or more copies
call about our large volume rates and 
delivery service - or any special copy
ing needs
Collating ....................No Extra Charge
Legal Size ..................No Extra Charge
3 Hole Punched .... No Extra Charge
2 Side Copying..........No Extra Charge
ten minutes left in the game when DAn-f
lo sank two foul shots. The Blue Streaks 
en forced several turnovers and with 
3:16 left in the game took a 64-63 lead. 
CMU regained that lead when Derringer 
sank two straight buckets and Wakich put 
in two foul shots with 31 seconds left to 
lead by three. It looked as if CMU had the 
game in hand but ten seconds later John 
Carroll cut the margin to one with two foult
ts. When CMU regained possession of 
ball, a Carroll player wisely fouled 
DAngelo hoping he would miss the foul 
shots. He sank the first one for his eighth 
straight foul shot but Carroll quickly called 
time out causing the Tartans to lose some 
of their momentum. DAngelo missed the 
second shot and it only took nine seconds 
for the Blue Streaks to grab the reboundf
id bring it downcourt to set up the dramic shot by Hodges to tie the game. It was 
apparent that the momentum had moved 
over to Hojn Carroll and they rolled off 11 
straight unaswered points to put the game 
out of reach.
In their quest for an upset victory, foul 
trouble hurt the Tartans late in the game. 
Chambers and DAngelo both fouled out 
hile Hamerly and Wukich played with 
ur fouls. The absence of the promising 
freshman guard, Pat Ward, also hurt their 
chances for a win. Ward, fromsBeaver High 
School in Vanport where he was named 
All-Section Honorable Mention for two 
years, will be instrumental in the success of 
the Tartans in future years. He is the type 
of guard Coach Yaksich has been seeking
SUMMER JOBS
Emma Kaufmann Camp of Pittsburgh's Jewish Community 
Center is looking for staff to work at our beautiful resident sum
mer camp, located on Cheat Lake near Morgantown, West 
Virginia.
The following jobs are available:
Positions
General Counselor
Specialists and Assistants
Minimum Requirements
Must like children, completed 
one year college
Must be able to teach compre
hensively in a given area
games with 13 rebounds and 12 points.
Derringer, who is becoming a consistent 
scorer added 14 points.
The Tartan lineup appears pretty set 
with Wukich and Ward at guards and DAn
gelo as a capable backupman. They have all 
proven to be good shooters. If they can 
control the ball without many turnovers, it 
will help the Tartans in their type of game.
Hamerly is set at center with Derringer,
Klein, and Chambers sharing the forward 
spots. They are all fairly good shooters but 
their rebounding can be greatly improved.
The Tartans have been playing much small
er teams than them and have not domi
nated the boards against them. CMU 
should have. a commanding lead in re
bounds almost every game.
Good ball handling and aggressiveness 
on the boards will be the key to a succe
ssful season for the Tartans on.
^Grateful Dead  Dave Mason  The Who  Beach Boys  J. Geil Band  Kiss  Elton John  Todd Rungren  Jesse Winchester^
J WRCT
TRIPPERS (back-packing) 
TENNIS & ARCHERY 
KITCHEN WORKERS 
STABLES (Riding English)
LAKEFRONT 
NATURE CRAFTS 
WHITE WATER SPECIALISTS 
MAINTENANCE 
POOL
For additional information or applications, ca 
621-6500 or write Emma Kaufmann Camp, 315 
Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213. * ^
I Jay Leipzig, 
S. Bellefield
WONT YOU HELP?
CARE
KAUFMANNS 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15219
Here is my $______
to feed and aid 
hungry children.
Name______
Address____
City________
State ______Zip
. Your check, made payable to 
. CARE, is tax deductible.
IS
i GIVING
I AWAY 
! RECORDS>*
Hundreds of Albums For Hundreds of Hours
o\ Every Evening from 7 to 3 88.3 on your FM dial
 If you don't listen, You can't win . . .
i
John Sebastian  Rave Brubeck * BTO  Geneses * Herbie Hancock Gentle Giant

---------------------------------------------------

offered
Linguists are engaged in a wide variety of 
translation, transcription, analysis and 
documentation projects Fluency in speaking 
is not essential, but knowledge of idiomatic, 
colloquial and dialectal variations is desirable
Slavic. Near Eastern and Oriental languages 
must take as a prerequisite for employment 
consideration Or you may write directly to: 
Chief, College Relations Branch National 
Security Agency. Fort George G Meade 
Maryland 20755 Attn M321 An equal
Hockey Team Remains 
Unbeaten, Wins 6-3
Page 18THE.TARTANJanuary 14, 1975
by Dave Girdany
The Carnegie-Mellon hockey team re
mained undefeated and untied by defeating 
Duquesne 6 to 3 on Sunday night, Decem
ber 8, at the Civic Arena. Matt Goldsmith 
and John Hauser led the Tartan scorers 
with two goals each.
Mike Gfcllaway opened the scoring as he 
skated expertly down the ice, through and 
around the Duquesne defenders, and beat 
the Duquesne goalie to give CMU a 1-0 lead 
in the first period. However, the Dukes 
took a 2-1 lead early in the second period 
by converting two Dudley Cotton slapshots. 
The first was tipped in by Copeland; the 
second Dudley scored himself. But then, 
midway through the period, in a 1:04 span, 
the Tartans scored three times to take a 4-2 
lead. Duquesne scored before the period 
ended to make it 4-3. Very early in the 
third period, Matt Goldsmith's quick back
hand gave CMU a 5-3 lead and the game 
was over. Jack Arturo added another goal 
later in the period to make the final score 
6-3.
This was a good showing for the Tar
tans, as they outskated a good Duquesne 
team for a decisive victory.
For those of you who are interested in 
your schools fine hockey team and who 
missed the season ticket plan, a special 
second semester ticket is being offered. 
The ticket covers six Civic Arena doubleheaders, including two CMU-Pitt games, 
and will cost S7.00. These tickets will be 
available today and Thursday from 10 to 3 
in front ofBaker Hall and from 11 to 2 in 
the Skibo lobby, as well as all week at the 
.Skibo information desk. This is another 
good chance to see good college hockey as 
the CMU Tartans drive for the league 
championship. The first game this semester 
is January 19 versus St. Francis.
There IS a difference!!!
 PREPARE FOR
Over 35 years 
of experience
and success
Small classes
Voluminous home 
study materials
MCAT OAT LSAT GRE : ATGSB : OCAT : CPAT : FLEX : ECFMG : NATI MEO BOS:
Courses that are 
constantly updated  

Make ups for *
missed lessons 9
Pittsburgh Branch:
681-9735
CBokrectki ns6Psz
Scoring Summary
First Period: (1) CMU-Gallaway 1 9:58
Second Period: (2) Duq-Copeland (Cot
ton, Boylan) 0:57 (3) Duq-Cotton
(Bender, Boylan) 1:50 (4) CMU-Hauser 2 
(Arturo, Gallaway) 4:38 (5) CMU-Hauser 
3 (Arturo) 4:54 (6) CMU-Goldsmith 1 
(Stuever, Grimm) 5:42 (7) Duq-Barbe 
(Bender)
Third Period: (8) CMU-Goldsmith 2 
(Grimm) 0:09 (9) CMU-Arturo 3
(Gallaway, Kenworthy) 9:15
science and language majors
At NSA, our success depends on yours.
Engineers will find work which is performed 
nowhere else devices and systems are 
constantly being developed which are in 
advance of any outside the Agency As an 
Agency engineer, you will carry out research, 
design, development, testing and evaluation 
of sophisticated, large-scale crypto
communications and EDP devices using the 
latest equipment for advanced research 
within NSA s fully instrumented laboratories 
Computer Scientists participate in systems 
analysis and systems programming related to 
advanced scientific and operational 
applications Software design and develop
ment is included, as well as support in hard
ware design, development and modification 
Mathematicians define formulate, and solve 
complex commumcations-related problems 
Statistical mathematics, matrix algebra, and 
combinatorial analysis are but a few of the 
tools applied by Agency mathematicians 
Opportunities for contributions in computer 
sciences and theoretical researrh arp 3kn
NSA offers you this opportunity to further 
broaden your knowledge of modern language 
of area studies, and to use your talents in 
immediate language assignments, advanced, 
refresher, or special vocabularly training or 
may even tram you in an entirely new 
language
At NSA. we are responsible for designing 
and developing secure/invulnerable 
communications and EDPsystems to transmit, 
receive and analyze much of our nation s most 
vital information The advancing technologies 
applied in this work are such that they will 
frequently take you beyond the known and 
accepted boundaries of knowledge 
Consequently, your imagination and resource
fulness are essential qualifications for 
success
Your Placement Office has further 
information about NSA career opportunities, 
including details regarding the NSA 
Professional Qualification Test (POT) which
Iptnniipnp mainrs (pront rhnCD mamrmn in
1323 MURDOCK ROAD 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 15217
in Mi,,?* U S C*he
txperience m biavic. Near tastern. and 
Oriental languages is particularly valuable
opportunity employer M/h -
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY
* -, - ' r-*. '"V;
;

---------------------------------------------------

fina* ne
3MNCi AKC,.:> X V -V
Please: Help prevent forest fires.
ENGINEERS
Clairol will be here to Interview for SUMMER & PERMANENT OPPORTUNITIES.
Clairol has positions in operations management for graduating and junior year engineering students. If you are interested in a career which offers challenge, responsibility and outstanding growth opportunities, then meet with our representative:Placement 
Office 
Warner Hall
Equal Opportunity 
Employer M/F
An
This Week in Sports 
Basketball
Jan. 15 Bethany at Home, 8:00 pm 
Jan. 18 Geneva Away, 8:00 pm
Hockey
Jan. 19 St. Francis, Civic Arena, 3:00 pm 
Wrestling
Jan. 18 John Carroll, Allegheny, Hiram at 
Hiram, 1:00 pm
Swimming
Jan. 15 Slippery Rock Away, 4:00 pm 
Jan. 18 Hiram Away, 2:00 pm
Rifle
Jan. 17 Clarion Away, 7:00 pm 
4------------------------------------------------------------I.M. Rosters 
Due Today
by Mike Pochan
Rosters for intramural basketball, hand
ball and bridge are due today in the IM 
office, Skibo Gym. Basketball will field 
three leagues; major, intermediate and 
minor.
A meeting for officials and managers of 
ALL TEAMS ENTERED will be held Wed
nesday, January 15 at 4:30 in the girls 
gym. Attendance is mandatory.
In Team Table Tennis, the Zoo defeated 
Willy Frantzs Oakland As to capture the 
title.
We cant gloat too much, CMUers. We 
may have them beat IQ-wise, but when our 
freshman classes get past their golden years 
(or are they plaid?), there are only 70% of 
them left, and thats versus their 85%. But, 
what can you expect? I mean, with an 
overall ratio of 4 men to every woman, 
who can blame?
Commentary
The Money Ethic
by Dave Kanner
Quite a fervor was raised last summer 
when high school sensation Moses Malone 
decided not to attend the University of 
Maryland, as he had announced, and in
stead signed a one and a half million dollar 
contract with the Utah Stars of the A.B.A. 
The Stars were criticized for signing such a 
young player, and Moses was criticized for 
breaking a previous commitment, but he 
was only doing what any of us would have 
done. What is actually being criticized is 
the profession. If Malone were an admin
istrative genius and general Motors had 
made the same offer the Stars made (to 
work as a vice president, lets say), I doubt 
that anyone would have advised him to go 
to college. Instead, he is an athletic genius 
who is being paid what someone, some
where, thinks he is worth.
Catfish Hunter raised a few eyebrows 
two months ago when he announced that 
the asking price for his services was two 
million dollars. Here was an established 
pitcher who could probably propel some 
team to at least a division title asking for 
figures that were previously unheard of in 
baseball. As you are probably aware, Hunt
er signed with the New York Yankees for 
an estimated 3.75 million dollars. An out
rageous sum you say? Not at all. It is 
simply a case of a man finding himself in a 
unique position, and getting paid what 
someone, somewhere, thinks he is worth.
The fact is that money talks louder and 
better than loyalty (look at Csonka, Kuck 
and Warfield) or previous commitments 
(how many college players have turned pro 
before their senior year?). Those who 
would criticize money hungry athletes 
are self-righteous dolts who dont really 
understand what pro* sports are all about.
Chess Players Finish 
8th In Field of 91
by Bruce Lev ere tt
The Pan-American Chess Championship, 
an intercollegiate tournament hel4 Decem
ber 26-30 in Louisville, ended in a decisive 
first place for Toronto, a full point ahead 
of the field of 91 teams which included a 
six-man CMU squad in a tie for 8th place. 
CMUs somewhat disappointing perform
ance was marked by a strong start featuring 
a spectacular third-round tie with lowly 
Rochester, for a final score of 5Vi points in 
the eight-round event.
After a series of early round upsets in 
which most of the top-ranked teams did 
some heavy suffering, Harvard, Toronto 
and Chicago emerged as the principal con
tenders for first place. That issue was pret
ty much resolved after Harvard tied with 
Toronto (a match that was finally decided 
only when Harvards first board blew in 
one move a game that he had spent six 
hours winning), and lost to Chicago, while 
Chicago got wiped out by Toronto. By the 
eighth round Toronto had beaten all their 
main rivalseven Nebraska, the only team 
within a half point of them, had lost to' 
them in an early roundand coasted into 
first.
CMUs record was put together from a 
stellar performance by team captain Mike 
Goodside on board two, and scores ranging 
from fair to mediocre by the other mem
bers of the team and the two alternates.
Goodsides wins over former National High 
School Champion Craig Barnes and expert 
Ken Thomas of Tennessee secured the tie 
matches with Berkeley and Princeton 
(while his teammates were losing and draw
ing), while his other two wins ( in the 
matches with Rochester and CCNYs B 
team) secured crucial points, and his draw 
with former Pittsburgher Paul Cornelius in 
the match with Chicago kept that loss from 
being a total disaster. Of the other team 
members, only Dave Eklund could claim a 
plus score, with three wins, one loss and 
two draws against opposition that was no
thing to write home about. Nevertheless, 
going into the last round, CMU had high 
hopes of finishing in a tie for fourth place, 
having beaten Duquesne and Cincinnati 
without too much trouble in the last two 
rounds. Crushing wins by Goodside and 
Eklund on boards two and three made the 
picture look even rosier, but disaster struck 
when Bruce Leverett and Keith Holzmueller on boards one and four, after 
reaching good positions in their games, 
managed to drop them both. In spite of 
this debacle, CMUs finish was still the best 
among the teams from Pennsylvania in the 
tournament, as well as the +>est among 
teams whose pre-tournament ratings were 
below 2000 (the USCFs expert level). For 
this last fact the team won a trophy, as 
well as a small prize, which Goodside dub
bed our appearance fee.
Next in the schedule is the Eastern In
tercollegiate, to be held February 7-8 in 
Silver Spring Md. Held in Harrisburg last 
year, this event was dominated by teams 
from Rutgers, Princeton and CCNY, but 
this year CMU hopes to raise enough 
money to send a team of four.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20THE TARTANJanuary 14, 1975
'IN CONCERT'
JANUARY 17, 1975 at 8:30 P.M.
IN THE SKIBO BALLROOM 
CMU ID FREE 
WITHOUT  $2.00
