TARTAN
February 7, 1978 Volume 78, Number 18 Carnegie-Mellon University Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213
Dalton Responds to Complaints
Gerald Dalton claims that he is only enforcing existing Housing policies, and is not responsible 
for the policies themselves.
by Belinda Quan
I am being blamed for existing housing 
policies, Mr. Gerald W. Dalton said in re
sponse to student criticisms in recent 
weeks., These policies have existed for sev
eral years and I am only enforcing them. 
The policies Dalton referred to involve 
housing contracts id room changes. It is 
impossible to break a housing contract be cause- when the student signed it, he com
mitted himself for housing for onfc year. 
Dalton compared it to leasing an apart
ment. If you go away for the summer, 
you still have to pay because you leased 
the apartment for the whole year.
One student thought that a housing con
tract should be for one semester so that a 
student can move off campus if he is dis
satisfied with his room.The Housing Of
fice should be more concerned with why a 
student does not like his room. But it 
seems that Housing's first priority is to 
make a profit.
When a student signs the contract, he 
denies space for another person. Accord
ing to Dalton, after August 15, there is no 
longer a waiting list of people who were
denied university housing earlier in the* 
summer. Those people have either decided 
to go to another college or rent off-campus 
housing. So if a student breaks his con
tract, housing would be left with a vacancy 
and no one to fill it. There may be a stu
dent already living on campus who wants 
the space but changing rooms would still 
leave a vacancy.
What are we paying for? one student 
asked. It is part of his job to arrange room 
changes. Problems with roommates can 
develop after December 16.
Regarding room changes. Dalton 
claimed that CMU is one of the few 
schools in the country which does not have 
a room change period. In most other 
schools, you are given a certain time, may
be two weeks, to change rooms. After the 
deadline, that is it. Here, they have had the 
first four months to change rooms. Since 
the December 16 deadline, students have 
been discouraged from moving. But if there 
is a serious and irresolvable problem with 
roommates, a student will be put on a 
waiting list for a room change.
Dalton explained, During the first four
months, I was sitting here in the office, ar
ranging 300 room changes. If we dont 
have a cutoff date, people would be 
coming in and requesting changes all year. 
Then we may have to hire one person just 
to handle room changes so that I can spend 
some of my time involved in housing op
erations.
When one person moves out of a room, 
the other roommates must pay the ad
ditional rent. That has been the policy, 
Dalton explained, it is not new. The only 
change may be that I give students the 
choice of paying or moving to another 
room.
Dalton further noted that a student has 
to make up for the difference in the rent 
(after his roommates move) is a misconcep
tion. For example, two student# may be 
paying $500 each for a double room. If 
one roommate moves out, housing may in
crease the rent of the other person to $600 
since he is occupying a single room. In the 
process, Housing has lost $400.
Housing is an auxiliary service. It doe? 
not receive money from the university so 
it must break even at the end of the year. 
If housing loses money because of vacan
cies, students will have to pay more for 
their rooms the following year.
Libyans arrive to study 
English, Metallurgy
Housing 
problems 
foreseen
Fifteen Libyan male students will arriv 
at CMU on Monday, February 13, to begin 
their studies in English As a Second Lan
guage and College Preparatory classes. 
They will study at the Translation and 
English Language Center for the Spring 
and Summer terms to improve their Eng
lish language skills and to prepare for 
eventual acceptance as freshmen in the 
Department of Metallurgy in the Fall term 
of 1978. These students have just complet
ed the equivalent of the first year of Amer
ican junior college, and have been instruct
ed in English for five to six years.
The Housing Office has decided that, 
upon their arrival, these studetns will be 
housed with residents of Boss and McGill 
who have available space in their rooms. 
(There are currently 14 spaces available in 
these dorms.) But, at the Wednesday, Feb
ruary 1 meeting of Boss/McGill residents 
there was a lot of negative feedback. Ba
sically, the feelings are that the conditions 
in Boss and McGill are already overcrowd
ed, and that assignment of new roommates 
so late in the year is bound to make people 
uncomfortable and hostile. Many resident 
assistants feel obligated to represent theseNASA picks 1970 grad
CMU grad Judith Resnik was named 
earlier this week by NASA officials as one 
of this countrys first six women astro
nauts. She received her B.E. in Electrical 
Engineering from CMU in 1970, and is 
remembered not only for her top grades, 
but also for her active involvement in stu
dent activities.
Angel Jordan, Professor and Head of 
Electrical Engineering, recalls. In those 
days, Judy was one of very few women 
who majored in Electrical Engineering, 
and she graduated near the top of her 
class. We kept in contact over the years 
while she was working on a doctorate 
from the University of Maryland, and 
conducting research at the National In
stitute of Neurological and Communica
tive Disorders & Stroke, NIH. In fact.
she returned to CMU in September 76 to 
give a Biomedical Engineering Seminar 
and was considered a top prospect for a 
faculty appointment here.
Judith Resnik was one of the founders 
of the Electrical Engineering Departments 
Student Advisory Committee, a member of 
several engineering honorary societies, 
served on the editorial board of a student 
technical journal, and was an official in 
several student social groups. Associated 
Woman Students, and the Panhellenic 
Council, during her undergraduate years 
here at CMU.
She is' currently employed by Xerox 
in California, and will report for astro
naut training in July. Ms. Resnik will be 
returning to CMU sometime this month 
to present another seminar.
feelings, and, at the same time, to represent 
the feeling of welcome to the Libyan stu
dents.
Doug Coutts, Assistant to the Director 
of the Translation Center and Foreign Stu
dent Counselor, attended the meeting and 
explained that the idea is to encourage 
cultural communication. The Boss/McGill 
residents do not object to this idea-there 
have been many offers from them to be 
hosts, but none to be roommates. Coutts is 
looking for, first of all, people willing to 
room with a Libyan student, and, next, for 
hosts who will either room or not room 
with a Libyan. The hosts will, in any case
1) Meet the student initially upon arrival
2) Assist students in adjustment to Ameri 
can student life in extra-curricular non
academic areas; 3) Act as an information 
source for students in establishing bank 
accounts, food contracts, etc.; and 4) Gen
erally be interested in assisting the students 
in any way needed to help in their adjust
ment.
Coutts also plans to hire an assistant, 
who will be a special RA to these students, 
dealing only with them.inside
Judith Resnik 
yearbook.
in the 1970
news...
AMS examined (pg. 4)
SDC space correction (pg. 2)
entertainment...
Kenny Rankin (pg. 19)
CMU Drama presents Carousel 
(pg. 20)
sports...
Basketball team clams 1st (dace 
(pg 29)
Cross-Country Skiing (pg. 31)
folio...
The Bible Revisited (pg. 15)
Repeat 
of Readership Poll 
(Pg.10)

---------------------------------------------------

page 2-TARTAN-February 7,1978
Coal miners into second week
by Elliot Ohlberg
The strike by 100,000 Appalachian and 
Middle Western coal miners is running into 
the ninth week. It is the longest strike in 
the history of the ^United Mine Workers 
Union (UMW). Stanley Schaeffer, President 
of Duquesne Light Cdmpany, wanted in a 
telegram to the White House that stock
piles have been depleted to potentially disatrous levels. He said this would soon 
force power rationing and industrial shut
downs, even with a mid-February strike 
settlement.
Effects of a coal shortage could become 
serious and drastic curtailment plans are 
being considered by the larger consumers 
of electricity. In the event that the coal 
strike continues for some time, the Univer
sity has outlined plans for curtailing heat 
and electricity usage, according to Richard 
Van Horn and Joseph McNally.
Barring the worst, the University will re
main in full operation for the remainder of 
this semester. But, as of today, the Bellefield Boiler Plant can remain in operation 
for at least another 26 days of normal wea
ther. If the weather turns colder, the 
University will reduce thermostats to 65 
deg. and ask that all nonessential uses of 
steam be discontinued. If these actions 
become necessary, the campus community 
will be notified.
Since CMU is a relatively small user of 
electricity, Van Horn and McNally do not 
expect curtailment serious enough to inter
fere with academic or research programs. 
A number of actions to reduce electrical 
consumption have been employed over the
past several years. In other words, many of 
the things that might be done to reduce 
consumption have already been done.
In the event that Duquesne Light in
structs CMU to make further reductions, 
the following actions will be implemented: 
1. Reduce the operation of air-circulating 
fans in the heating system to the minimum 
possible to maintain reasonable tempera
tures. In other words, we will reduce the 
flow of fresh air but still maintain tempera
tures at reasonable levels. The buildings 
may become slightly stuffy. 2. Reduce to 
the extent possible the use of electrical lab
oratory equipment, particularly electrical 
furnaces. 3. Change the hours of operation 
of the University so that most activities 
take place during daylight. Under this plan, 
such areas as the library and Skibo will not 
be open in the evening hours. Faculty 
members will be requested to keep lights 
oi'f during the day in their offices and to 
keep lights off in the classroom if possible.
If things get worse, the following ac
tions will then be considered. Computa
tion Centers for the University and for the 
Computer Science Department will be shut 
down, saving the electricity needed to 
power the equipment and dissipate the 
heat from the equipment. The use of all 
electrical laboratory equipment will be dis
continued. All external lighting could be 
shut off. Also, selected buildings will be 
shut down.
If worse becomes worse, Van Horn and 
McNally say they will have no alternative 
but to close the University. Hopefully, 
none ol these measures will become neces 
sary. This plan is being circulated now sc 
that the campus community has the op
portunity to think about it and to com
ment on it. The campus community will be! 
kept informed of the situation.
The TARTAN will be 
holding an election 
for a new
News Editor
The position is open 
to any CMU student 
No experience necessary
The election will be 
Wednesday, February 8 
at 7:30 P.M. in the 
TARTAN offices, Skibo 50
If you have any questions 
call the TARTAN at 578-2111 
or Sherry Siegel at 578-4941
AV 
Department
by Jean Pellegrini
The Audio-Visual department, exTeaching Aids Dept., is now located in 
the Hunt Library concourse, previously in 
Baker Hall, and is headed by Stephanie 
Evancho who took over A.V. in January, 
1977.
We have a new direction which em
phasizes production, Ms. Evancho stated.
The production services include a black 
and white television studio where broad
casts and on-the-air taping is frequently 
done for various departments. For exam
ple, Self-Paced Instruction classes are taped 
and made available for student use, and the 
Public Relations department makes audio 
records for trustees or for official func
tions. Without the audio part of my 
self-paced Materials Science course, it 
would be impossible to get through, an 
M&MS junior commented. 4
A recent endeavor of the* department 
has been to teach students to use the equipment and facilities. Video arts studio 
courses and student groups fulfilling class 
requirements or doing public relations 
work for a club use the facilities in a super
vised setting. We realize that students 
dont have budgets to work with but we 
support student creativity as much as pos
sible. We are here to be a support service 
by all means, although we do have limita
tions, Evancho added.
The situation in general is that they are 
given a budget but must cope with an in
evitable deficit, most of the time. A.V. is a 
resource service which must, in turn, work 
on a charge-out basis.
A.V. provides hardware for purchase or 
rent on an hourly, daily, or weekly basis. 
A new semester-rate has recently gone into 
effect in order to cut down costs for de
partments who use facilities on a regular 
basis. Any department, faculty member, or 
student, (with a faculty-authorized state
ment) may rent, for example, a Super 8 
mm camera for $.50 per hour. The Skibo 
Wherrett Room facility and system (in
cludes one microphone, projector, P.A. and 
operator) would cost $35.00 per day. 
This is a comparatively small operation 
and we dont have as much equipment as 
we could comfortably use. A Special Capi
tal Expenditure Grant which we received 
has gone toward replacement and modern
ization of equipment, which helps. A bud
get increase could help even more though. 
Evancho remarked.
A professor might call and say, Im go
ing to put together a course on . What 
do I need, how much will it cost, etc.?Ms. 
Evancho said that she and her full-time 
staff of three, plus work-study students, 
must act as consultants in this type of situ
ation. Advice is yet another dimension of 
A.V. services.
People arent aware of what were re
sponsible for. Many calls are received ask
ing why something isnt working in a par
ticular area, but we dont cover the loca
tion. The A.V. department is responsible 
for the Skibo Wherrett and Ballroom, BH 
232F, PH 100, and the Hunt Multi-Purpose
jom. We are not in the business of ignor
ing complamts though. If the information 
is available, we will tell a person who they 
should deal with or where they should goespecially as far as scheduling goes, Evancho said.
The SDC space
by Stephanie Waite
Last week I wrote an SDC Space 
which was intended to satirize the lack of 
interest displayed by the students of CMU 
towards SDC, and to satirize the adminis
trations attitude towards SDC. The article 
as it was originally written was very 
humorous and could not have been mis
understood by anyone as serious. Further
more, it contained a disclaimer at the end, 
which stated that the article was not to be 
taken seriously. Unfortunately, the article 
was edited. Without regard to its implica
tions, many key jokes were left out, and 
the article was mistaken as serious. I am 
extremely upset by the ramifications this 
article has caused, however I will not be 
blamed for the article as it appeared.
My intent in writing the article was 
not malicious. I was also not aware of the 
libelousness of the article. However I do 
wish to take this opportunity to apolo
gize to Bill Dillon, as I realize how em
barrassing the article must have been to 
him, especially taken out of context as 
it was. I also wish to apologize to any 
SDC reps who were insulted by the article, 
and to any people who were insulted or 
hurt by the statement on the rape.
I am still holding firm to my original 
convictions which, in part, prompted me 
to write the article. SDC as it is operating 
in its capacity as a student-administration 
liaison, is a generally inefficient organiza
tion; partly due to the apathy of the stu
dents involved in it, and partly due to the 
administrations attitude toward it. One 
could fairly say, I think, that the student 
apathy is largely caused by the fact that 
the administration does not take SDC very 
seriously. If the artiple moves anyone to 
try and make SDC a more effective organi
zation, then all the agony I went through 
concerning the article will be worth it. If 
a few people got a laugh out of it, that 
makes it all worthwhile, too.
"Mea culpa"
-the TARTAN
When the copy for last weeks SDC 
Space was originally submitted . to the 
News Editor, it contained a disclaimer at 
the end. It was mistakenly^edited out, then 
lost. Stephanie Waite, author of the piece, 
remembers the disclaimer this way: After 
writing eight (count em) eight serious 
SDC Spaces, I decided it was time for 
something a little more humorous. I apolo
gize for the attitudes expressed in the art
icle, and attribute the breakdown to ... 
(here was inserted an in-joke that had no 
relation to the article, the.administration, 
or SDC.)
The TARTAN apologizes that the arti-. 
cle was not printed as submitted, apolo
gizes to any persons affected by the article, 
and apologizes to the campus community 
as a whole.
The A.V. dept, is interested in sugges
tions that people have about improving the 
service. Ms. Evancho would like to see a 
free-usage system for some things
started, but it is believed by most that in 
a situation where equipment isnt super
vised, people tend not to be as careful. 
Our business is to provide as good a ser
vice as possible at the lowest cost, Evan
cho concluded.
If you have questions, comments, suggestions, or criticisms about FOOD SERVICE,

---------------------------------------------------

Senate murmers
by Linda Deak
Senate plodded through another meet
ing, spending the majority of time on the 
housing issue.
Mudge residents attending the meeting 
verbally responded to a previous motion 
which altered the status of graduate stu
dents on the housing priority list. They 
were concerned that a grad student was not 
serving on current student housing com
mittees. Senate created a standing commit
tee, headed by John Lubon, which will 
meet with members of Auxiliary Services 
to discuss priority rankings for housing. 
Interested students are welcome to join the 
committee.
Bob Fallon, General Campus chairper
son, claimed that there is a serious hous
ing situation. His investigation showed 
that there will be a shortage of approxi
mately 100 beds next year, if housing does 
nothing. John Tumazos interjected a 
motion that Senate recommend that the 
University take every possible measure to 
provide housing for all students.
Senate evaded the housing discussion 
long enough to approve a (non-supported) 
new White Water Canoe club. The Compu
ter Clubs budget was also passed.
On the subject of budgets, Dan Cordes 
of Finance Committee warns that budget 
petitions will be evaluated both this even
ing and on February 28th. Because Senate 
is known for being very parsimonious and 
inquisitive, it is recommended that a repre
sentative of the organization being review
ed appear at the respective meeting.
Senate is inviting Dr. Cyert to attend an 
open-forum meeting in the near future. 
Issues to be discussed include: physical 
plant, housing, club athletics and the AMS 
issue. Details on the exact date of this 
meeting will appear in the February 14 
issue of the TARTAN.
The semi-annual Senate elections are 
fast approaching! March 10, 11 have been 
set as polling dates, but petitions are due 
two weeks prior to March 10. Students 
wishing to have their names appear on the 
ballot must submit a 25 signature petition 
of students in their constituency. Positions 
are open in all colleges and petitions will be 
available at the Skibo Information desk 
this week.
Senate is meeting this evening, 7:00 PM, 
in the Wherrett Room.
Moneysaver
Schenley Ice Skating Rink was the site of last Saturday's free ice skating program sponsored 
by the Office of Residence Life.
TEST YOUR
(Economics QuobenD
True False
? ? (1.) In 1975, Federal, state and local
governments spent about $7,500 per 
household.
? ? (2.) Today, the U.S. ranks third in
international trade.
? ? (3.) Less than four per cent of the
U.S. labor force are agricultural workers.
If you found these questions tough, your 
Economics Quotient, your E.Q., could prob
ably stand some improvement.
A special booklet on our American 
Economic System can help you do just that. 
Its fact-filled, easy reading and free.
For your copy, just mail the coupon.
ANSWERS: re (SJy)J3 11
The American Economic System
We should oil leorn more about it.
tcooomKS." PuebJo. Cokxodo 8)009
I want to improve my E.Q. Please send me a free 
copy of the booklet about our economic system
Name_____________________________________
Address
City._State_-ZipVT/ 
wxjfcfc c -message o* This *tew*xipei & TN? AcSwfcviv* (curt* & US Deporta* Corowe
If youre looking for a way to take 
home more <jf your paycheck, dont have 
your employer withhold income tax, sug
gests the Internal Revenue Service.
Most students who work part-time 
earn less than $2,950 a year and there
fore dont have to file a tax return, ac
cording to an IRS spokesperson.
But if tax is withheld, they have to 
file a return before April 15 just to get 
their money back, says IRS.
Students who believe that they will earn 
less than $2,950 in 1978 are urged to file 
a Form W-4 (Exemption from Withhold
ing) with their employer.
Single persons dont have to file a tax
return if their income is under $2,950 and 
tneir income from interest and dividends 
are under $750. For married taxpayers 
filing jointly, the cut-off is $4,700. If you 
have any questions, call the IRS.
Why Senate's 
saving $
by Elliot Ohlberg
Submitters of club budgets beware. 
According to Don Cordes, Student Senate 
Finance Committee Chairman, $136,000 in 
requested allocations for the February bud
get hearings has been received. Senate only 
has $115,000 to spend and $20,000 of that 
must be reserved for organizations which 
submit their budgets in the Fall. Most not
able among those include Thistle, Scotch 
n Soda, Sweepstakes, and Spring Carni
val. This leaves a $41,000 difference be
tween the amount requested and the amount to be allocated.
Budget chopping will be completed by 
February 23, and the full Senate will vote 
- on each clubs budget. (Lois Cox, Assis
tant Dean of Student Affairs, is present at 
all student Senate Finance Committee 
hearings.)
Part of the pinch (approximately 
$12,000) is caused by the funding of club 
athletics, such as baseball and hockey. 
Many Senators feel that the athletic depart
ment, and not the activities fee, should be 
funding these organizations. Senate is awaiting action by the Board of Trustees on 
this issue. John Lubon, President of Stu
dent Government, made an appeal to this 
effect at the January 16 meeting of the 
Trustees Finance Committee. Lubon re
ported to Student Senate on January 18 
that the Trustees did not seem very sensi
tive to this concern. According to David 
Roussos, Student Senate considered rais
ing the activities fee last March, but no 
Senator voted in favor of doing so. This 
term the issue will probably come up 
again.
A SKI TRIP
to Seven Springs sponsored by the Ski Club
On February 10, 1978 
The bus will leave Skibo parking 
lot about 3:00 PM 
$4.00
 $ 5.00 
Rental-$ 3.50 
ON SALE at the SKIBO 
INFORMATION
call the FOOD SERVICE DIRECTORS HOT LINE, X2127, Monday 5pm-6pm.

---------------------------------------------------

Discussing AMS: Strengths and Weaknesses
The principal symptom which was re
ported to team members both by students 
and faculty members is the discontent 
which students seems to feel with too 
many teaching assistants. AMS seems 
caught between increased enrollment and 
no parallel increase in faculty budget.
Middle States Association Evaluation Team 
November, 1976
GSIAs outstanding reputation attracts 
many students to the AMS department. 
Unfortunately, these students soon learn 
that graduate students, not GSIAs prized 
faculty, teach most AMS courses. This 
article considers the allocation of faculty 
to AMS, department administration, cur
riculum redesign, and other proposed 
solutions.
The Allocation of Faculty to AMS
AMS exists as a degree-offering depart
ment without a faculty. Even though 214 
AMS majors are paying $727,600 in tuition 
each year, each semester professors teach 
perhaps 8 of the 25 or so lecture classes 
that AMS offers. No other department in 
this university relies primarily upon gradu
ate students to teach core courses.
Much of the problem stems from a con
flict between GSIAs academic mission and 
the demand for undergraduate business 
courses.
GSIA strives to be a small, but excellent 
business school. Its average masters class of 
90 to 100 students is by far the smallest of 
the major business schools. Even if GSIA 
tried to expand, top caliber instructors are 
scarce.
On the other hand, the AMS curriculum 
has become quite popular. There is a siz
able waiting list of students who want to 
enter the department. Furthermore, other 
professional students seek courses in bus
iness administration. Elements of Industrial 
Administration, Organizational Behavior, 
Accounting, Production, Finance, and 
Marketing should be available to the entire 
University community.
Nonetheless, GSIA allocates its cheapest 
resources to AMS. Graduate students are 
paid $850 to teach a class. GSIA professors 
are only expected to teach undergrads dur
ing the faculty members first three years
at CMU. One GSIA prof jokingly refers to 
this practice as a fringe benefit.
The only GSIA professor permanently 
assigned to AMS os a remarkable man, Prof. 
Thomas Kerr. Professor Kerr runs the AMS 
department, teaches five graduate and two 
undergraduate courses wach year at CMU, 
maintains a private law practice, is Pres
ident of the Pennsylvania branch of the 
American Civil Liberties Union, teaches a 
Speech course and sits on a thesis review 
panel at the University of Pittsburgh, is
an Adjunct Law Professor at Duquesne, 
and participates in a number of community 
activities. He has continually asked for and 
tried to get more faculty to teach AMS 
classes, but with no results. Thus, AMS 
students must rely primarily upon graduate 
students.
For a myriad of reasons, graduate stu
dents are inherently inferior instructors. 
First, their $850 salary provides little in
centive for excellence. Second, teaching 
must compete with the graduate students 
own classes, research projects, and thesis 
writing. Third, many graduate students are 
teaching for the first time. Problems are 
inevitable. Fourth, the graduate students 
are accustomed to very theoretical, fastmoving courses. Many instructors have 
trouble finding the optimal rate and 
depth.
Fifth, the graduate" students are trans
ient instructors. In the long run this is the 
most serious problem. A faculty acts as a 
stabilizing force. Faculty members advise 
students, coordinate courses, and react to 
crises. A faculty has a residual interest in 
the students welfare. On the other hand, 
the graduate student know that they will 
soon leave CMU. An instructors whirlwind 
tour of prospective jobs has left many 
classes in complete chaos.
The Faculty Course Evaluations confirm 
the mediocrity of AMS instruction. In the 
past three semesters AMS has had the 
third, third, and seventh lowest mean in
structor ratings in the University. When 
you compute the mean instructor rating 
of the graduate instructors alone, AMS 
had the second lowest mean instructor 
rating in each of the last three semesters. 
The quality of instruction by GSIA grad
uate students is clearly inferior.
Department Administration
Three day-to-day problems, plague the 
AMS departmentgraduate instructor over
sight, course coordination, and the student 
advisory process. Each of these problems 
are due to the absence of faculty.
In theiry, GSIA faculty members over
see undergrad courses in their areas. In real
ity, most GSIA faculty members busy.- 
themselves with their research and their 
own classes. They trust their graduate, 
students to teach well. I have never heard 
of a professor sitting in on a graduate stu
dents lecture to check if the graduate stu
dent can effectively address an audience.
AMS students experience the conse
quences. Sometimes the lectures are poorly 
presented. Other times the course content 
is inappropriate. Last year one Decision 
Theory instructor designed an abstract, 
innovative course rather than the tradition
al decision tree approach. The instructor 
did not convey the theoretical material 
well. Two years ago a graduate student 
used a conceptual text and related mater
ials which were designed for Honors Ac
counting 211 at Ohio State. Some of the 
course handouts even bore the Ohio State 
letterhead. Unfortunately, the course he 
taught was much too accelerated for our 
Financial Accounting course. He left most
continued to page 12
WOULD YOU UKE TO BE A 
FRESHMAN WEEKEND COUNSELOR ?
Freshman Weekend is seven months away, but the planning begins now.
Responsible, fun loving, excited, dedicated students are needed to fill the 
limited number of counseling positions available. If you've got the spirit, 
the time, the chutzpah and the willingness to set a good example for im
pressionable freshman, then you'd be great as a Freshman Weekend Coun
selor. Fill out the form below and return it to Dean Swank, 206 Warner 
Hall, in person or via campus mail, by February 17, 1978.
N ame--------------------------------------------------------------- Special Skills: (Here include such things as training to work at the Peer
Help center, musical or programming skills as a result of work with the
Local Address-------------------------------------------------- Activities Board, special interests including athletics. Use additional sheet for
this question and the questions below)
Local telephone number_____________________
Suggest an activity that would add to the usefulness of the Freshman WeekClass_______________________________________ end Program.
Department____________Major_____College________________
Past work or responsibilities with entering or potential students: (circle what can you teach peop|e to d07
where applicable) - host in sleeping bag weekend campaigns, Summer orien
tation counselor, Freshman Weekend counselor, Program leader in Orien
tation, dormitory, fraternal or other student organization officer.
List student or university organizations of which you are a part. (e.g. - 
Departmental SAC, Faculty Senate, Fraternity or club)Why would you like to be a Counselor at Freshman Weekend?
Please don't apply for this position unless you are sincere about being a 
CMU representative to new students and to the Camp Staff.
Return this application to room 206, Warner Hall by Feb. 17, 1978
oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

---------------------------------------------------

?
SAVE ON TEXAS INSTRUMENT CALCULATORS AT THE CMU BOOKSTORE
SR-40
A full function slide-rule calculator. Simplifies problem solving with 48 of the most needed functions. 
And AOS, Tls unique algebraic operating sys
tem, lets you enter calculations as theyre written, 
left to right. Also handles 15 sets of parentheses 
with up to 4 pending operations.
Performs roots, powers, reciprocals, common 
and natural logarithms, trigonometry (in degrees, 
radians or grads), in addition to basic arithmetic. 
Versatile memory functions include store, recall, 
sum to memory and memory/display exchange.
Bright LED display indicates angular mode 
and shows 8 digits and sign in standard format, or in 
scientific notation, 5-digit mantissa, 2-digit ex
ponent and 2 signs.
Operates on 
fast-charge recharge
able electronic 
battery pack or AC. 
And its automatic 
turn-off substan
tially increases bat
tery life. Adapter/ 
charger, owners 
manual and carrying 
case included.
V* x* *7 Off **
INV sin cos tan ORG
K ees log kix 7*
TT V < ) fO
** mmmww wm o
SCL pr kb n m
 n o a a
exc EH a C29 ra
SUGGESTED 
RETAIL PRICE 
$29.95
CMU PRICE 
$24.95
Powerful. Rechargeable. Rugged. 
Styled for todays professionals 
and college students.
JQyBusjness Analyst s # 'ft
Insurance. Real Estate. Securities. Buying, selling 
or trading. Whatever your business, the TI Business 
Analyst provides the calculating power to quickly 
and accurately apply your business analysis tech
niques to time and money problems.
Special keys activate preprogrammed financial 
functions. Three keys deal with cost/sell margins. 
Five keys handle 
compound interest, 
annuity calculations 
and other present/ 
future value prob
lems. Variables may 
be entered for any 
calculation in any j 
order.
Advanced 
math capabilities in
clude linear regres
sion and trend line 
analysis  useful in 
-forecasting. Percent 
and percent change.
Reciprocals, 
squares, roots, pow
ers, natural 
logarithms. Also 15 
sets of parentheses, a 
versatile memory 
complete with summation to memory and a 
memory/display exchange capability.
TI Business Analyst comes complete with 
owners manual, vinyl carry case, fast charge battery 
pack, and AC adapter/charger.
SUGGESTED RETAIL PRICE $34.95
CMU PRICE $29.95
pi Lets you handle a wide range of 
J business calculations quickly 
and efficiently.
TI Programmable 57
These
The TI Programmable 57 is a powerful slide rule 
calculator that you can program right from the 
keyboard. It comes with a graphic learning guide, 
Making Tracks Into Programming, making it ideal for 
high school or college students and professionals 
new to programming.
Eight multi-use memories provide addressable 
memory locations for you to store and recall data. 
Powerful program memory stores up to 150 key
strokes as you build your program. Once stored, the 
program can be executed repeatedly by supplying 
new sets of variables instead of reentering all the 
program keystrokes.
Computer-like 
programming func
tions include: Com
plete editing and 
error correction 
capabilities. Six dif
ferent forms of 
branching. Two 
levels of subroutines.
And much more.
The TI Pro
grammable 57 is also| 
a powerful super 
slide rule calculator 
which provides 
many advanced 
mathematical capa
bilities to simplify 
problem solving:
Functions of x. Log
arithmic functions.
Trigonometric functions. Statistical functions.
Nine levels of parentheses and the ability to store 
up to four pending operations let you handle even 
complex equations quickly and easily.
AOS  TIs unique algebraic operation sys
tem  makes problem solving easy. You enter prob
lems from left-to-right, exactly as they are stated 
algebraically.
The TI Programmable 57 
comes with a new, illustrated 
easy-to-follow learning guide 
Making Tracks Into Program
ming. With over 200-pages, 
this book takes you into the 
power and fun of program
ming right away  with 
step-by-step instructions 
and examples. Detailed 
how-to discussions cover: Basic 
programming. Loops and repetitive calculations. 
Editing and documentation. Decision making. 
Home management programs. Finance and cash 
planning. General and advanced math. Scientific 
applications. Games and recreation. And more. 
AC adapter/charger and carrying case included.
TI ProQrarrimabte 57 j
2 r.<*INV
10
in*
C t
ccCIRO MS IfiN
P-R
JtMX*
CO
Sx
tin
Vx
P
SSTHt
TO
EiC
wcI
PtU
S'jMr*
Nop
SS
o<F
?>*tn1ES
DummmmmmO
SBwmmmmmO
RSTmmmmmm0*dCl
R/Sma mm urn o
j
Technology: Key To Value
The Programmable 57 provides excep
tional power at an exceptional price. The 
key to its value is a remarkable advance in in
tegrated circuit technology  a single 
MOS/LSI chip with the equivalent capacity 
of30,000 transistors. It is the most powerful 
single-chip calculator ever produced!
SUGGESTED RETAIL PRICE $79.95
CMU PRICE $69.95
The self'teaching programming 
system for students and 
professionals.
MEET 
THE 
TEXAS 
INSTRUMENT 
ANSWER 
MAN 
ON 
FRIDAY 
FEBRUARY 9 
AT 
THE 
CMU 
BOOKSTORE 
FROM 
TEN 
UNTIL 
FOUR!

---------------------------------------------------

TARJAN
Consider these facts. Morewood Gardens (towers AD) 
is over 50 years old. Presently, the electrical wiring in the 
building does not conform to modern safety standards. The 
elevator returns do not conform to modern safety stan
dards. The sprinklers in hazard areas do not conform to 
modern safety standards. Even the exit signs do not con
form to modern safety standards.
In case of fire, the only way to exit is down the stairs. 
There are two stairwells in each tower, but they are only 
twenty feet apart. Because of the speed with which fire 
spreads, the two stairwells can be considered as only one 
stairwell. In addition, the stairwells are right near the ele
vator of each tower. We all learned from The Towering 
Inferno that an elevator is worth ziich in a fire-the flames 
shoot right up the shaft. If those flames shooting up the 
shaft get in the way of the stairs, it may be impossible to 
use those stairs.
But in a fire, the stairs are the only way out of towers 
AD, unless you consider jumping out the windownot 
a very practical plan if you live above the second floor.
Now consider these facts. Morewood Gardens has a 
lot of wood inside of it, from desks,, dressers, and other 
furniture. It also has a lot of 'paper inside of it, from 
books and homework. It also has a lot of electrical wires. 
The walls are plaster, with lots of cracks. Fire can shoot 
right in between those cracks and whip right through the 
walls, from book to book, . from desk to dresser, from 
floor to floor.
In short, Morewood Gardens is a tinderbox. A death
trap. A potential disaster. A tragedy waiting to happen.
Possibly worse than the fire at Providence College in Rhode 
Island. Seven women students died in that blaze on Decem
ber 13 last year. Four freshmen, one sophomore, one junior, 
and one senior. Women with nice names. Jacqueline 
Botelho. Gretchen Ludwig. Katherine Andresakes.
Consider these facts. Aquinas Hall, where the seven 
women resided before they were killed, had been renovated 
in 1974. Steel doors had been installed. A smoke-detecting 
system had been installed. "The building itself did not 
burn,  said one Providence official. "The contents did. 
The fire was electrical, not structural. "
Now listen to this. When the fire alarm rang at 1:14 on 
Sunday morning, some Morewood Gardens residents didnt 
want to leave their rooms. Then they didnt want to leave 
the building. Because it was cold outside. Because they were 
having a good time with friends. Because they knew it was 
a false alarm. Because there had just been a fire drill the 
Thursday before, and they' didn't want to be bothered 
again. They didnt want to be inconvenienced.
Inconveniencefl. . .
The truth cdfhnot be stated more simply than this: If yQu 
choose not to leave a building when a fire alarm is sounding 
because you are sure theres no fire and it turns out youre 
wrong, then you might die.
Even if 100 stupid or drunk people each pull a fire alarm 
in Morewood during one week, theres always the chance 
that the 101st alarm could be real. Theres no way to know 
until you re outside.
About going outside. Some people like to wait until they 
hear the fire trucks before they go outside. This is also 
stupid. The fire, unlike you, is not going to wait for the 
trucks before it starts moving.
Carnegie-Mellon is planning to improve safety conditions 
in Morewood Gardens in the near future, if they havent 
already done so. But no matter how safe the building 
is, you can still die in a fire. Jaqueline and Gretchen and 
Katherine did.
The ironic thing about their deaths is that they probably 
tried to escape.
Sherry Siegel 
Editor-in-Chief
Letters
Recycled Hamburgers 
Editor:
This is in response to your ed
itorial Refusing Hamburgers 
(sic) printed in the Jan. 31 TAR
TAN. We, as two-year veterans of 
the Tartan Grill, feel that there are 
several facts that you ought to be 
aware of and should have been 
aware of before you put your un
founded editorial into print.
In regard to the matter of our 
giving leftover food away at clos
ing, it is a long-standing policy of 
the Tartan Grill that no food is to 
be given away to customers at any 
time and whoever is responsible 
for such an action certainly did so 
without authorization. Therefore,* 
it is unfair for you to assume that 
this is a common practice.
As far as your secret that we 
use leftover hamburgers for lunch 
the following day, how can you 
justify printing such a serious alle
gation with no proof whatsoever? 
How can a competent editor use 
only one source, who wasnt 
certain?
We know for a fact that these 
hamburgers are not used again for
hamburgers, as such, which is im
plied in your editorial. We know 
that the meat patties are refrigera
ted and used to make chili. There 
is nothing wrong with this practice, 
as the meat is freshly grilled and 
well refrigerated overnight.
We at the Grill are sick and 
tired of the TARTAN taking pot
shots at our operation. We think 
its pretty sad that the editor relies 
on fabrications and misrepresent
ations to influence the campus 
community.
Laurie Ansorge 
C. James Zamagias
Recycling Redux
Editor:
In reference to the TARTAN 
article dated Jan. 31, Reusing 
hamburgers I a two year employ
ee of the humble establishment 
wish to clarify and correct your 
interpretation of Kiltie Cafe use 
and reuse of hamburgers.
First, Tartan Grill employees 
were told by John Eichmuller 
that the leftover hamburgers were 
to be saved. Anyone giving away
managers back. Also, those leftovers(only beef) are refrigerated 
overnight then brought down to 
Kiltie Cafe Kitchen and added to 
chili by the cooks. This practice 
of saving meat is common all 
over this country. This is per
fectly sanitary and also econom
ical and environmentally sound.
Making criticisms that are not 
based on fact but hearsay is 
shabby journalism which is cer
tainly worse than reusing leftover 
hamburger meat.
Karen Singer 
Kitchen lead 
Tartan Grill
The Editor replies:
I only wish that Karen Singer, 
Laurie Ansorge, and C. James 
Zamagias had read the editorial 
more carefully, before they accus
ed me of shabby journalism and 
relying on fabrications and mis
representation. I did not write, 
in fact, that hamburgers were re
used; I merely implied it, and 
everybodys fertile imaginations 
took it from there. However, if
TARTAN
Volume 78February 7, 1978Number 18
Sherry Siegel 
Tim Shields 
Ellen J. Silverman 
Lennie Matjasko 
Casey Childs 
K.A. Yaksich 
Mike Jochmann 
V.R.V. Ramanan
Photography Statf: Mike Bergman, Skip Brazelton, Tad Dickenson, George Lecomte, Chris Morrow, Mark Seg
Production Assistants: Naomi Kornhauser, Joan Livitski
Editor-in-Chief 
Managing Editor 
Business Manager 
Acting News Editor 
Entertainment Editor 
Folio Editor 
Sports Editor 
Photography Editor
Copyright 1978 by the Carnegie-Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit or 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Govern
ment of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; (412) 578- 
2111 or 2112. Business Offices: Skibo 52; (412) 5782111.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

---------------------------------------------------

accusations must be leveled, I may 
rightly be condemned for passing 
along information I received from 
a Grill employeeinformation 
that is fully attributed and, I 
maintain, reported correctly in 
the 1/31 editorial.
Satiric SDC Space
Editor:
Having been an SDC repre
sentative for the past three sem
esters, I would like to comment 
on last weeks SDC Space, 
written by a fellow SDC rep, 
Stephanie Waite. I was shown the 
article before it appeared in a 
highly condensed form in the 
Tartan. As written, it was a broad 
satire of the SDC minutes we are 
used to seeing, including a final 
paragraph stating its humorous in
tent. As edited, much of the 
satirical content was removed, in
cluding the final paragraph, 
leaving the casual reader unsure as 
to the intent of the entire col
umn. The result has been a sur
prising amount of flak, especially 
from some administrators.
Though some may think Steph
anies column to be irresponsible 
journalism, I feel her actions, and 
the article itself, should be ap
plauded. The issue is: can one 
write a satirical article about SDC 
meetings which border on the 
satirical themselves? At the meet
ing mentioned in the contro
versial column, Bill Dillon and 
Gerry Dalton were invited to at
tend. Several students came to ask 
why Dalton seems totally inac
cessible. Dillon attended; Dalton 
did not. Dillons reply: I never 
have trouble getting in touch 
with him. The fine line of sat
ire is nearly impossible to dis
tinguish: Some laughed at the idea 
of housing CMU females at 
Carlow...its a serious possibility. 
Lets not forget last years proof 
that truth is stranger than satire: 
The Wreck of the Morewood 
Piano.
If the humor in Stephanies 
article causes even a few extra 
people to read what is going on 
with SDC, causes Bill Dillon 
enough thought to see that Gerry 
Dalton becomes more sensitive to 
students needs, or causes the 40% 
of SDC absent from that meeting 
to be present for future ones, the 
fuss will have been worth it.
I even hope she attempts 
another article of the caliber of 
last weeks. With a little protec
tion from over-zealous editing and 
easily embarrassed administrators, 
the entertainment would be ap
preciated.
Eric R. Huhn
As stated on page 2, the TARTAN 
apologizes for the injudicious edit
ing, and wishes to apologize to 
any people offended by it.-Editor
low Budget WRCT 
Editor:
As a regular listener of WRCT, 
I was aggravated in learning, via 
your editorial(l/31/78), that our 
radio station is being forced to 
operate on such a meager budget. 
WRCT has the potential of
playing a most important role 
as a voice of our student body. I 
feel that this is where my money 
should go rather than to the base
ball and hockey clubs. CMUs 
Athletic Department should sup
port these clubs, not the stu
dent body.
Along with the problems of a 
pruned budget, WRCT as an insti
tution is also in trouble. There is 
an internal push from the pro
gramming director towards a pro
grammed or canned format. 
Fortunately, there are some disk 
jockeys that are resisting this 
push. WRCT may be under some 
dark clouds, but it is still oroduoing some of the widest and 
enjoyable variations in music on 
Pittsburghs FM radio. In addi
tion to this, there is a tremendous 
effort being put forth to improve 
the studio facilities. These im
provements will provide us with 
even better free-minded music.
Its up to us, the student body, 
to make sure that our radio sta
tion grows, rather than deterio
rateswhich would leave our ears 
stranded.
Ken Hirschmugl
Delicious Musical Dessert 
Editor:
I wish to express my gratitude 
to Lino Calvarese, Dino Calvarese, 
Klancy Martin and John Culp for 
an excellent job done at the recent 
Musical Dessert. As part of a series 
of after dinner musical perform
ances, these men performed in a 
Brass Quartet, which displayed ex
cellent musicianship on the part 
of the four.
The next musical dessert will 
be February 20, 1978. Anyone 
interested should contact the Of
fice of Residence Life. We are in 
search of singers and instrumental
ists.
Thank-you.
Corey Chase 
Residence Director
Budget Follies
Editor:
In reference to Budget Follies 
article in 1/31/78 issue, one is lead 
to believe that the Senate Finance 
Committees budget includes 
WRCT, TARTAN, Activities 
Board, the Hockey Club, and the 
Baseball Club. Such groups as the 
Forbes Street Gallery, Ultimate 
Frisbee Club, Tech Flying Club, 
and other such groups are ignored.
The Hockey Club, which has 
been in existence now for eight 
years, and the newly formed Base
ball Club have both shown a good 
deal of student support. These 
two sports are popular in this 
area and should not be ignored. 
To get rid of these clubs or any 
other group on the Finance Com
mittees budget would be a grave 
mistake.
If the Finance Committee were 
to go around cutting some of the 
groups now on their budget and 
devote all their funds to WRCT, 
wed have a pretty dull campus. 
These groups offer students an 
outside activity of interest and 
fun, which can help remove them 
from the pressure-packed atmo
sphere around CMU.
Both the Hockey Club and the 
Baseball Club have fund-raisers in
order to supplement their bud
gets. The Hockey Club puts out 
a program, which they use in 
order to sell ads to local business
es. The Baseball Club has formed 
a Boosters Blub, which in only 
two weeks has raised over $300. 
Along with these fund-raisers, 
each player puts in money from 
his own pocket in the form of 
dues, equipment, and travel ex
penses for road games. Until 
these teams can get on the Ath
letic Departments budget, which 
they have tried to do many times, 
this system is the only way to 
survive.
May I suggest that instead of 
getting rid of something that, 
obviously, not everyone knows 
about, support these groups, go to 
a hockey game or a baseball game 
this spring. Or better still get 
involved with one of these groups. 
They are clubs and open to all 
students who wish to play or 
help out.
Edward McKenna
Rotten Radiators 
Editor:
It is now 6:13 in the morning 
as I write this letter, in semi-coma
tose. Why am I driven to write to 
the TARTAN at such an ungodly 
hour? Because as a resident of the 
fine C-tower of Morewood Gar
dens, the noises reverberating 
from our radiator are keeping us 
awake.
They are not your ordinary rad
iator noises (hsss). They are loud 
and raucous like two hundred pigs 
at a smorgasbord.
We have tried to beat our rad
iator to death. This works for a 
minute, then it grunts twice as 
loud.
Its only faking us out, my 
roommate moaned as she rose to 
sleep in the lounge.
Are you, too, bothered by noc
turnal noises? Ladies of Morewood, dont be deprived of your 
well-earned beauty sleep by this 
sonic attack. Go sleep in your 
lounge.
Kellie Gruen 3C5 
Po 3C5 
Kate Johnson 2C5 
(below the noise)
I.M. Woman
Editor:
This is in response to your art
icle on Paula Kasmerski (Jan. 31, 
1978). You claim she is the only 
female member of I.M. Basketball. 
Being captain of the ever-proud 
10:47 basketball team, I would 
like to correct you.
Our team does not have one 
token female but is a complete 
co-ed team. They are an essential 
part of the team, both for playing 
and team morale.
I would personally like to thank 
Ronni Kelly, Beth Bossier, Jacqui 
Wooley, and Sue Orbovich for 
helping make 10:47 the unique 
team we are.
Unlike most I.M. teams, were 
out there for exercise and fun. 
Winning is not the main purpose 
in I.M. Basketball, and our record 
shows that.
Charles Sislen
The TARTAN stands corrected.
-Editor
more Letters
Crecine Comments 
Editor:
The discussion with me on the 
strengths and weaknesses of H&SS 
Departments as reported in last 
weeks TARTAN contain two 
statements that might be subject 
to misinterpretation. I believe 
undergraduate education in 
Economics needs more atten
tion. The next sentence in the 
article, Since the department is 
staffed mainly by GSIA, the un
dergrads get whats left after 
GSIA takes care of its graduates 
and research programs, might be 
interpreted as meaning GSIA 
faculty do not teach in the under
graduate program to the extent 
they should. I do believe that 
economicsgraduate and under
graduate is understaffed at 
CMU. However, there is little 
to support the notion that GSIA 
Economics faculty do not teach 
in the undergraduate program. 
In fact, they do. Nearly all of the 
undergraduate offerings are and 
have been staffed by GSIA 
faculty. The problems relate to 
the structure of the curriculum 
and its fit with other undergraudate programs (a lack of 
attention) and to the fact classes 
are too large and not sufficiently 
diverse (too few economists at 
CMU). In the same paragraph 
there appears a statement that is 
incorrect. Crecine added that if 
speculation about the AMS De
partment moving came true, it 
would probably become part of 
H&SS. I am not aware of any 
specualtion about AMS moving 
anywhere. What I did say was 
that there is discussion about 
AMS becoming strictly an upper 
division program and about in
cluding the AMS major as one of 
the options available to H&SS 
students after completing the 
core. To have an AMS department 
located anywhere but GSIA 
makes no sense.
John P. Crecine 
Dean, H&SS
Rude Men
Editor:
I think the mens Intramural 
Basketball teams owe the womens 
Varsity Basketball team an apo
logy for their rude behavior Sat
urday. During the first half of the 
womens game against Duquesne, 
the guys in practice clothes started 
filtering in the gym with basket
balls even though a sign on the 
gym door specifically stated that 
the gym would be closed until
2 PM. At half-time, the women 
barely left the court when the 
guys attacked the baskets and 
started shooting. After half-time, 
the coach had to make them leave 
the court but these rude guys 
continued to use the baskets 
surrounding the court. The loud 
commotion surrounding the court, 
distracted us spectators and it must 
have also destroyed the concentra
tion of the women playing. It was 
so ridiculous that the coach had 
to call a time-out and yell at the 
guys to hold their basketballs. 
This has probably given Duquesne 
a very low opinion of CMU. This 
type of behavior is unheard of 
during the mens Varsity game! A
closed gym is a closed gym and 
should be equally observed and 
enforced during the womens game 
as it is during the mens.
Susan Razulis 
Donner Mail Service
Editor:
In response to the complaint 
regarding the mail service at 
Donner Hall: We postal clerks are 
work-study students, and we were 
hired with the understanding that 
the job could be performed on a 
variable schedule, according to 
our class schedule. This has been 
the policy of the post office in 
previous years. We are not govern
ment employees or targets for 
frustrations over the larger bu
reaucratic system. We are also not 
responsible for the weather which 
has detained mail service all over 
the country. We are paid for three 
hours a day whether it takes long
er or not.
Moreover, are students really 
such creatures of habit that a 
slight variation in their secure, 
imaginary dormitory schedule 
spoils their day? The mail is 
delivered each day, whether at 
noon or dusk, and if this break in 
routine is frightening, thats just 
too bad. In fact, there is a reason 
for doing the mail in two waves: 
The boxes are small, and often 
not all the mail fits in on one 
delivery.
This letter is not addressed to 
civil students who realize that the 
reality of life at CMU doesnt re
volve around them, as it may 
have in their comfy homes back 
in Evans City. Likewise, we are 
not so bored to want to plot in 
order to steal, withhold or ration 
mail.
M. Fairbrother 
J. Morris
GSIA Rankings
Editor:
The article quoting from my 
statement on ratings of grad
uate schools of management man aged to reproduce segments of my 
statement accurately. Unfortu
nately the article, in a one sen
tence interpretative paragraph, 
managed not only to use a nonword(irregardless) but also to 
seriously misrepresent what I had 
stated. I had provided a summary 
of the ratings indicating that 
Stanford, Harvard and Chicago 
usually finish in the top three 
with MIT, CMU and Penn in a 
group right behind. The article 
implied that I felt this accurate
ly represented a ranking of the 
true quality of the schools. In 
fact, I truly believe that GSIA 
offers an education that can not 
be equaled anywhere else, a 
belief receiving increasing support 
from the record number of em
ployers attempting to recruit our 
graduates. This state of affairs is 
not fully reflected in the rankings 
because of the small size of GSIA, 
its relatively few alumni, and the 
overall reputation of the univer
sities in which our competitors 
are located.
Robert S. Kaplan 
Dean, GSIA
Elliot Ohlberg, the author of 
the article, apologizes for any mis
representations. They were unin
tentional.
-Editor

---------------------------------------------------

Liibyiansnirvft. (~1. ASSIFIF.D ADS
DEADLINE: NOON WEDNESDAY!
Classified rate: $1.00 for every 15 words. 
Announcements are FREE.
general
Professor Erwin Steinberg's lecture on
"Structure in Joyce's A Portrait of the 
Artist as a Young Man" has been resche
duled. It will now be held on February 14, 
at 11:30 AM in the GSIA Auditorium. The 
lecture is open to the public.
There will be a party in 200 Bos Hall. For
information & reservations call 578-4665.
The CMU Department of Psychology will
be sponsoring two lectures this week. The 
first lecture will be on Thursday, February
9 at 3:30 PM in BH 340A. The title is "The 
Critical Role of Context in Understanding 
Reading and it will be given by Dr. Ralph 
Norman Haber of the Department of Psy
chology from the University of Rochester. 
The second lecture will be Friday, Febru
ary 10 and it will feature Dr. Tarow Indow 
of Keio University in Tokyo, Japan speak
ing on "Spatial Representation of ColorsA New Method for Relating Color Differ
ences to the Opponent Color Theory." It, 
is also in BH 340A at 3:30 PM. Both lec
tures are part of the Psychology Depart
ment's Colloquium Series, and as such are 
free and open to the public.
John P. Crocine, Dean of the College of
Humanities and Social Sciences will have 
office hours for student, Tuesdays from 
1:30 to 3:30 in 260 Baker Hall.
The Marcel Ophuls lecture has been resche
duled! It will now be held on Friday, Feb
ruary 17 at 2:30 PM in Baker Hall 231.
Forbes Street Gallery will be opening a
new show today featuring Michael Olijnyk 
and Claire Wyzenbeek. The show consists 
of solf sculpture, weavings, and drawings. 
The Forbes Street Gallery is open Wednes
day through Sunday, from 12 to 4 PM, and 
again on Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thurs*- 
day evenings from 7 to 9 PM. The Gallery 
is located at 5200 Forbes Avenue, on the 
corner of Forbes and Margaret Morrison 
Streets.
The Student Government Programming
Committee will meet on Tuesday, Febru
ary 7 at 8:30 PM in Skibo Room 33. Any 
student or groups of students who has a 
well thought out, innovative proposal for 
on campus programming can be placed on 
the agenda for the meeting by calling 
Amy Boyle at 687-0126.
SENIORS: If you did not have your senior
pictures taken, sign-ups for them will be 
from Tuesday, February 7 to Friday, Feb
ruary 10 at the Skibo Information Desk. 
Pictures will be taken Tuesday, February 
14 and Wednesday February 15 in Skibo 
Room 12. Yearbooks may also be pur
chased outside the room at this time. 
Sitting fees are two dollars unless your 
parents have purchased a congratulatory ad. 
For seniors who had their pictures taken in 
December, please come to Room 12 to 
completely fill out the yearbook informa
tion form. Many seniors failed to do so the 
last time.
The Chatham College Film Society invites ,
all CMU students to two films. "Badlands" 
will be shown on Sunday, February 11, 
and1 "Romeo and Juliet" will be shown oil 
Monday, February 13. Both films will be 
shown at 7:30 PM in the Eddy Theatre on 
the Chatham College campus. There is an 
admission charge of one dollar.
Now is the time for all good students to
come to the aid of their University... Ad
missions plans a Sleeping Bag Campaign for 
the February 20 President's Day holiday. 
(You'll have classes on this commemorative 
day honoring Washington and Lincoln, but 
most high school seniors won't.) Help us 
celebrate by hosting a prospective student. 
Fill out the card you received via campus 
mail or stop by Warner Hall, first floor, to 
volunteer to be a host.
Bruce Breland, Art Professor, will speak on
mail art on February 8, at 7:00 PM in the 
Welch Hall Lounge. Refreshments will be 
served. The talk will be open to the campus 
community.
A Transactional Analysis (T.A.) meeting
will be held Thursday, February 9, from 
8 to 10 PM at 2118 Beechwood Avenue in 
Monroeville. The topic is "Expectations." 
For more information, call 372-3228. 
Everyone is invited to attend.
Fresh, hot pozza right on can^pus - Kappa 
Kappa Gamma pledges are having a pizza 
sale in Morewood lobby on February 7, 8 
and 9 (Tues., Wed., and Thur.) from 
912 PM. Buy a whole pizza or by the 
slice. Plain or pepperoni.
Spirit will hold a very important meeting
tonight, February 7, at 7 PM in the Wherrett Room. 1978 officer nominees and teeshirt and Spring Carnival booth designs 
will be discussed.
Israeli Dancing is held every Thursday at
8 PM in the B'nai B'rith Hillel Lounge, 3rd 
floor, 315 S. Bellefield Avenue.
"Congressional Utilization of Program An
alysis: Political and Psychological Perspec
tives" will be discussed by Hillel Weinberg, 
Yaie University, on Wednesday, February 
8, 1978 at 3:00 PM in Baker Hall 246A. 
Sponsored by the Social Science Seminar 
Series.
Outward Bound is a shot of high adventure in the wilderness.
And a lot more.
Its a trip thatll show you what youre made of.
You can discover you can do almost anything you wantif you 
tryOur 3-week experience in self- confidence sure isnt easy. But it might just last you the rest of your life.
Your first challenge: send for full information.
Name
Street
CityStateZip
School
Phone
Check the courses that interest you.
Canoeing ___ Desert expeditions___
White water Wilderness
rafting ------ backpacking ___
Sailing ___ Mountaineering ___
Outward Bound, Dept. CG.
165 W. Putnam Ave..
Greenwich.CT 06830.
Phone toll free (800) 243-8520.
No experience necessary.Outward Bound admits students of am sex. race, color and nationcl or ethnii origin. We are a nonprofit organization. Scholarships available.
Outward BoundThe course that never ends
"Food for Thought; A Dietary Approach
to Freedom from Disease" is the topic of a 
free public lecture to be held Friday even
ing, February 24 at 7:30 PM at the Utility 
Center of Pittsburgh on Penn Ave. near 
Lang St. in Point Breeze. Jim Winer, author 
of the "Handbook of Basic Nutrition," will 
be the speaker. Sponsored by the Semple 
Street Food Co-op.
A modern Israeli art exhibit consisting of
the works of Joshua Neustein will be ex
hibited at CMU's Velar Gallery. Meet the 
artist at a reception in the GSIA building 
on February 13, at 7:30 PM. Mr. Neustein 
has exhibited his work at the Worchester 
Museum in the United States as well as at 
the Ivon Lambert Gallery in Paris, and also 
at the Tel Aviv Museum in Israel.
Coal and America's Energy Needs will
be the subject of a lecture and panel dis
cussion sponsored by the CMU Chapter of 
Sigma Xi. It will feature Dr. Stanford S. 
Penner, Professor of Engineering Physics 
and Director of the Energy Center at the 
University of California at San Diego, 
speaking on "The National Energy Plan 
with Emphasis on Coal Utilization and 
Long Term Environmental Impact Asses
sment."
The lecture will be in the Mellon Insti
tute conference room(use the Bellefield St. 
entrance) and will begin at 8 PM, Tuesday, 
Feb. 14. For further details contact Dr. 
A. Terry Bahill, 578-2521 or 578-2536.
To All Foreign Students at CMU: Foreign
students are finding jobs overseas through 
the Home Country Employment Registry, 
sponsored by the National Association for 
Foreign Student Affairs(NAFSA). To take 
advantage of this service, simply complete 
a card available from the Foreign Student 
Advisor. The information you provide is 
made available only to bona fide employ
ers. More than 350 employers have used 
the service in the past, including 200 
multinational corporations, 120 domestic 
companies, and 30 others. Employers 
currently are most interested in students 
studying engineering, business administra
tion and other technical fields. Nation
alities of greatest interest are Iran, Japan, 
Venezuela, Brazil, and the Republic of 
China. While the Registry offers no guaran
tee of a job, it does provide one more 
avenue of making your availability known. 
If you have not yet done so, get a bio
graphical card for the Registry from Mrs. 
Mary Stockton, Warner Hall 611.
Recycling can be a craft. Let the Creative
Recycling Center tell you how. The Center 
offers workshops now through May, teach
ing you how to make useful items out of 
industrial byproducts and discards. Courses 
offered include bookbinding, tubular fur
niture, classroom materials, creative 
clothes, dolls and soft toys, papermaking, 
plexiglass and many others. Come enjoy 
yourself and learn something new at the 
Creative Recycling Center in Bloomfield, 
4614 Liberty Avenue. Stop by Tuesday 
through Saturday 10-6 or call 687-0900 
for more information.
On January 26, an exhibition of 19th
century European prints drawn from the
Museum's collection will open in Gallery 
D at the Museum of Art, Carnegie Insti
tute. The exhibition traces the develop
ment of the principal divisions of Europe
an art that occurred during the Nineteenth 
Century and all major schools are includ
ed France, Holland, England, Spain and 
Germany.
The exhibition will continue through 
June 18. Museum hours are from 10 AM 
to 5 PM, Tuesday through Saturday, 1-6 
on Sunday, closed Monday.

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTS
FOUND: A pair of grey-brown eyeglasses
in a black case. On the case is written "Ac
curate Optical, Salisbury, Maryland, 
Wheaton, Maryland. Found in the Career 
Services and Placements Office, 19 Warner 
Hall.
Come and eat some talatel on Israel Day at
Carnegie-Mellon University, February 10, 
Skibo lobby.
"Economics as an Inexact and Separate
Science" will be discussed by Daniel 
Hausman, Columbia University, on Feb
ruary 13, 1978 in Baker Hall 246A at 
4:00 PM. Co-sponsored by the History
& Philosophy and Social Science Depart
ments.
clubs
Gay Supporters at Pitt welcome all CMU
supporters. Meetings are held every Sunday 
at 6:00 PM. Check the personals in the 
back of the Pitt News for location and 
further information.
The CMU chapter of The Society of Wo
men Engineers will 6e having a meeting on 
Sunday, February 12 at 7:00 PM in Skibo 
Room 11. Nominations for elections will 
take place, along with a discussion of our 
Technical Careers Conference. Members are 
highly encouraged to attend.
scholarships awards prizes
An initiated member of any of the five
sororities at Carnegie Mellon University 
whose home is in Trumbull County Ohio 
and who had a 2.5 grade point average may 
apply for the Trumbull County Panhellenic 
Association Scholarship for 197879. 
Details and application forms are available 
in Dean Cox's office, Warner Hall 204. 
The deadline for submitting completed 
applications is April 1, 1978.
$3,500$2,500$2,000To be awarded 
to the three top essayists by Friends of 
Animals, Inc.
The Regina Bauer Frankenberg Scholar
ship contest is aimed at fostering interest 
in changing the relationship between 
humans and other life forms. Awards will 
be given to students who present the three 
best essays incorporating animal rights 
principles in support of a Federal legislative 
campaign. The subject of the essay is, 
"Why should Congress, on behalf of the 
people, the animals and the environment, 
ban the leg-hold trap?"
For further information and entry form, 
please write: Friends of Animals, Scholar
ship Committee, 11 West 60th Street, New 
York, NY 10023
Sophomores and juniors are eligible to
apply for the Book Prize sponsored by 
Mortar Board, CMU's senior honorary. This 
award will be given to a student whose 
studies demand the use of a particular but 
expensive book worth $75.00 or less that 
will aid him or her in the achievement of a 
professional goal. Details and applications 
are available at the Skibo Information 
Desk. Deadline for completed applications 
is 5 PM Monday February 13.
Applications are now available for Delta
Delta Delta Service Projects scholarships. 
The 1978 award of $100 will be made to 
full time, undergraduate women. The re
cipient of this award is automatically 
eligible for one of the national awards of 
$1000, with no additional applications or 
procedures necessary.
Academic record, contribution to cam
pus or community life, promise of ser
vice in the major field, and financial need 
are among the criteria considered.
Applications forms are available in 
Dean Cox's office in Warner Hall, Room 
204. Completed applications must be re
turned on or before February 17, 1978.
Since 1943, Tri Delta has awarded a 
total of over $952,520 to 4,933 deserving 
students. In 1977, approximately 57% 
of these scholarships were awarded to 
unaffiliated students, 34% to Tri Deltas, 
and 9% to other oanhellenic members.
The Society of the Plastics Industry,
Inc., Expanded Polystyrene Division, an
nounces a $1000 scholarship award. Any 
innovative design for almost any practical 
application of polystyrene foam may win 
an award. First Award: $1000, Second 
Award: $300, Third Award: $200, Two 
Honorable Mentions: $100 each. Details 
available from The Society of the Plas
tics Industry, 3150 Des Plaines Avenue, 
Des Plaines, II., 60018.
classified
Need ham radio operator: Contact Ray
Smith. 681-8199 or leave message on GSIA 
bulletin board.
TypingProofreadingSelectric. Symbols,
Italics, Elite, Pica. Work Guaranteed. 734- 
1331. No Answer761-8584
Original Wedding Bands: Why buy massproduced rings? Have your own unique 
design created. 243-5458. Diamonds. 
Counselors, over 19 for unique overnight
boys' summer camp in Blue Ridge Moun
tains of Penna. Able to instruct either one 
of following: Watersafety, Waterskiing,
Arts & Crafts, Boating, Soccer, Basketball, 
Athletics, Riflery, Ham Radio, Rocketry, 
Science, Archery, Track, Tennis, Golf, or 
Pioneering. Write Camp Director, 138 Red 
Rambler Drive, Lafayette Hill, Pa. 19444.

---------------------------------------------------

page 10TARTANFebruary 7, 1978
False alarm interrupts weekend
Into the cold
Morewood Gardens residents were 
forced out into the freezing cold Sunday 
morning at 1:14, after fire alarms on the 
fourth floors of A-,B-,C-, and D-towers 
sounded, according to Security.
Fire truck No. 28 from the City Fire 
Department later said that firemen checked 
all the floors, found nothing, then reset 
the master fire alarm box and left.
During the search, students outsidesome in coats, others clad only in night 
clothesgazed up .at the bathroom on 
the sixth floor of B-tower, wondering if the 
smoke billowing out the window could 
have been from the fire. It turned out to 
be steam from one students shower.
Similarly, the smoke that poured out of 
the top of B-tower was only exhaust from 
the Morewood Gardens boilers, which are 
located in the basement of B-tower.
A Security officer who had been search
ing the building said afterwards that 
evacuation was swift and complete.
C? <3 O V <5? C?
"LoveLLtfE,  o Gmu... v
C?
Q? Subw55ior\s ^qj re^ye.i>+ed by Felo. ft. Q?
O <3 O W c? c? c?
During the false fire alarm, exhaust from the boilers billowed out of B-tower (arrow).
Apathy at 1:14
Most Morewood Gardens residents 
jumped up and ran when they heard the 
fire alarm go off early Sunday morning. 
Some sauntered through their halls and 
casually trotted down the stairs. And 
others, convinced that it was a false alarm, 
didnt bother to leave their rooms.
Many of those who did leave their 
rooms clustered around the main desk, 
once downstairs in the lobby. Desk attend
ants looked on, doing nothing to get th"* 
students outdoors. A Kaffeeklatsch atmo
sphere prevailed, until a deep voice from 
near the B-tower exit bellowed, Get out 
of the building! Finally, students shuf
fled outside.
Though Security and the Pittsburgh Fire 
Department may believe that students eva
cuated the building quickly, a Morewood 
resident would probably say otherwise.
Most were skeptical that there was a 
fire, and some felt inconvenienced that 
they had to interrupt whatever they had 
been doing to go out into the cold. A desk 
attendant, who wished to remain anon
ymous, said of the students, They were 
just pretty apathetic. He explained that 
he was instructed to remain at the desk un
til firemen arrived.
Some students unwillingness to leave 
the building might be attributed in part to 
the fire drill three days earlier: they didnt 
want to bother evacuating the building 
again for what they believed was a false 
alarm.
We ran the readership survey for the first time on Jan. 24, We got 34 replies on a campus ^ease use opportunity and return this survey torm to the SKIBO Information Desk 
of 3300 undergraduates. This survey is the easiest way to talk back to the TARTAN. ^ yu *iave already filled out a survey, thank you; you need not fill one out again.
TARTAN.......... :
READERSHIP SURVEY
fc.Personal Data
This information is useful in assessing whether certain sec
tions and features appeal to a particular group of people 
within the CMU community.
Sex: ( )Male ( )Female
Gass: QFreshman ( )Sophomore 
( )Junior ( )Senior 
( )Graduate ( )Faculty 
( )Staff
( )OtheT(please specify)
Residence: On Campus
( )Dormitory 
( )Fratemity
( )Apartment or Roselawn 
( )Webster Hall
Off Campus
( )Apartment 
( )Live with Parents
College: ( )CIT ( )MIS 
( )AMS ( )CFA 
( )H&SS ( )GSIA 
( )SUPA
II. General Readership Patterns
This information will indicate how effective the TARTAN 
is by assessing how often you read it.
1. How often do you pick up the TARTAN?
( )Weekly
( )Regularly(two to three times/month) 
( ) Periodically (about once a month) 
( ) Infrequently(once or twice/semester) 
( ) Seldom (less than once/semester)
2.How often do you usually read the following sections of 
the TARTAN {please circle one number for each section 
listed below using the following scale)
1.Weekly (I never miss an issue)
2.Regularly (two to three issues a month)
3.Periodically(about once a month)
4. Infrequently (once or twice a semester)
5.Seldom (less than once a semester)
NEWS 1 2 3 4 5 
EDITORIALS 1 2 3 4 5 
ANNOUNCEMENTS 1 2 3 4 5 
FOLIO (Weekly magazine) 1 2 3 4 5 
ENTERTAINMENT 1 2 3 4 5 
EVENTS 12 3 4 5 
SPORTS 1 2 3 4 5
III.Overall Ratings
1 .Excellent
2.Good
3. Average
4.Poor
5.Failure
Does the TARTAN provide 
adequate coverage of campus
news and events? 1 2 3 4 5
Do you enjoy reading TARTAN
articles? 1 2 3 4 5
What do you think of TARTAN 
coverage so far of:
The Rhodesian Issue 1 2 3 4 5 
Music Education 1 2 3 4 5 
Sports events 1 2 3 4 5 
Movies, records, books 1 2 3 4 5
What section do you like most?
least?
why?
What news do you feel the TARTAN should report that 
it presently does not?
IV. Any Other General Comments?

---------------------------------------------------

i Leftover burgers are made into dried beef crumbles
In reaction to the TARTAN editorial 
(Reusing hamburgers, 1/31/78) which 
said that a Grill employee told the Editorin-Chief that hamburgers from the Grill 
were reused the next day in the Kiltie 
Cafeteria, Assistant Director of Food Ser
vices Jim Tomsula talked with Steve Kane, 
News Director of WRCT.
Following is the unexpurgated transcipt 
of Tomsulas interview, part of which 
aired Tuesday night on WRCT. The TAR
TAN offers no further comments.
(Tomsula:) I think what Id like to do 
first of all is just. . .in reading the article 
here on reusing hamburgers, in all due re
spect to the person that did write the art
icle, just looking at it, Im looking at the 
last sentence here that says, quote, next 
time youre about to bite into a burger in 
the Kiltie Cafe, take time out to think 
where that patty might have been just last 
night. Well, I think if anybody that eats in 
the Kiltie Cafeteria every dayfirst of all 
to get a hamburger in the Kiltie Cafeteria 
you have to eat through line one, which is 
our sandwich lineand every day, that is 
Monday through Friday, we have a cook 
standing outside here in the cafeteria line, 
cooking fresh hamburgers almost to order, 
to give the students fresh hamburgers 
downstairs. Now this is what the article 
does state, that the hamburger you might 
eat in the Kiltie Cafeteria could have.been 
left over from the Grill last night. I think 
the issue that were probably talking about 
is leftovers, and
(Kane asks what happens to the leftovers, 
and how many days they are saved.)
(Tomsula:) Leftovers, first of all. . .Its our 
policy here at Skibo to have all leftovers 
now certainly in any food service there are 
leftovers, and no matter what unit, wheth
er it be the Tartan Grill, the Skibo Cafeter
ia, the Faculty Dining Room; all of the food 
that is left over, its our policy to take it 
downstairs and its in what we call the 
Leftover Box. Its under the direct super
vision of the Production Manager Now. 
Yes, we do use leftovers. But first of all 
do we take a hamburger that might have 
been cooked in the Grill tonight and 
use it tomorrow as hamburger or, do 
we use it at all? This comes under the 
discretion of management, it comes un
der the discretion first of all of the Pro
duction Manager.
Let me just expound on this a little bit. 
First of all, if a hamburger patty is left 
overwe do have leftover hamburgers 
patties, I mean its no secret: we have a 
leftover hamburger patty. What we might 
do with the patty, if its used at all, is 
grind it up and make dried beef crumbles
out of it. How is it used? Well, it might be 
used in some chili, as an extender. After 
all, we can go out on the market and buy 
dried beef crumbles and use it as an ex
tender. I see no difference, and its good 
food practice. Its the same if we were 
making chili today. The first thing we 
would do is brown off our ground meat. 
We would take bulk ground meat and 
brown it off. Then what we would do is 
add our sauce to it. Im just taking an 
example of chili. Im not saying that every 
pot of chili we have has this; Im giving 
you some use that we might use this ham
burger patty as. But first of all we would 
grind it up and use it as dried beef crumble. 
That is, i our Productions Manager deems 
it accessible, an acceptable thing to do, if it
has just been left from yesterday. There is 
nothing in our box kept for more than one 
day. If we dont use it the next day, it goes 
out. This is a good practice that we adhere 
to, strictly. And this is one reason why 
every food item is. . .it comes under the 
surveillance of the Production Manager, so 
that we dont have all our peoplewe have 
300 students employed here, weve got 55 
union people employed hereso that we 
dont have 355 people making a decision 
who should eat what and where it should 
go. We have one person monitoring this, 
okay?
Leftovers again, if you see down in the 
Kiltie Cafeteria on line two we have a sign 
up. It says Yesterdays Best. We let you
know that its there, yes, its from yeste 
day. We dont just take everything that 
left and throw it into the garbage can 
There are some things that can be usee 
But, to answer the question about the ham 
burger patties, its. . .and I will not say lik 
the hamburger patties from the Grill tha 
may have come downstairs, first of all th 
big reason is that it is our policy that in a 
units, every leftover food item comes un 
der the scrutiny of our Production Manage 
downstairs. So he takes a look at it, decide 
what should happen to it, he knows how 
old it is, and just if it should be used, if 
should be ditched.
The TARTAN wishes to thank Steve Kan 
and WRCT for their cooperation.
INS IDE WASH INGTON
The Surrender of Panama , whether we like it or not!
by Frederic Siegel
Contrary to what the press may report 
or what the public wishes, the Panama 
Canal Treaties will be ratified by a sub
stantial majority of the Senate, within the 
next few weeks. For the last few weeks, 
Panama has been the most talked about, 
and controversial issue on the Hill. Whether 
riding through subways, waiting for ele
vators, or eating in the various establish
ments in the House, the Panama subject 
prevails.
It is not difficult to see why so many 
people are spending so much time and 
money to investigate the implications of 
this extremely complicated treaty. In fact, 
one of the reasons it is taking so much time 
to mark-up and ratify is because it is so 
confusing. It is so misunderstood that at 
the recent Senate Foreign Relations Committee for the mark-up, certain members 
themselves were confused as to what 
exactly the treaty will provide. I overheard 
one Senator remark, I may be a little 
thick-headed, but what the hell will the 
Treaty do once it is signed.
The Treaty, signed on September 7, 
1977 by President Carter and Panamanian 
Chief of Government, Omar Torrijos will 
provide the Panamanians with operating 
control and the right to defend the Canal 
until December 31, 1999, after which 
Panama would resume full control. When 
the treaty goes into effect, Panama would 
assume general territorial jurisdiction over 
the present Canal Zone, use portions of 
the area not needed for the operation and 
defense of the Canal, and receive %50 to 
$70 million per year from Canal toll 
revenues. In addition, the United States has
pledged its best efforts outside the treat 
to arrange on behalf of Panama econom 
loans, loan guarantees and credits of up 
$300 million. Under a separate neutralit 
treaty, the United States would have th 
right to assure the neutrality of the Cana 
from any threat for an indefinite perioc 
Although they knowingly admit th 
public sentiment is against the ratificatio 
of the Treaty, the majority of the Sena 
believes that ratification of the new Trea 
accommodating Panamanian grievances 
most conducive to guaranteeing the sa 
and efficient operation of the Cana 
Among those Senators in favor of ratific 
tion are Ted Kennedy, Frank Churc 
Howard Baker, John Sparkman (Chairman 
of the Senate Foreign Relations Comm 
tee), Jacob Javitz, John Glenn, Chari
continued on page M
WELL ,M/SS HWL, 
frit HAVE A VEJty 
IMPRESS t VET 
RESUidMEG, 
VOU'LL HtyE TO 00 'ULL TO 
BEAT TP IS/
ALLR.l&HTt A'XT TIME NO BKa

---------------------------------------------------

Goodbye, PanamaAMS
continued from page i i
Percy, Clifford Case and George McGovern. 
Many Senators feel a moral obligation to 
make up for treatment of Panama during 
the signing of the Hay-Buena-Varilla Treaty 
in 1903. Senator Pat Leahy explained V 
to me in this way: "Imagine a powerful 
country coming to your State and telling 
you that they would take control of a 
body of water that happenned to run 
through your land. Imagine if they signed 
a treaty, ignoring your presence, rights, and 
way of life. Take it a step further and add 
the fact that they bring in employees at 
salaries five times as much as your states
men are earning and set them in homes 
that your own people could never dream 
of affording.. How would you feel? The 
Panamanians have the right to receive com
pensation and fairness for the riehts that 
we stole from them. As I listened to these 
words by Senator Leahy and heard them 
echoed by many of his colleagues, I 
realized that no matter how poor public
sentiment remains against this treaty, it 
will still be ratified. One sure way I deter
mined the Treatys outcome is to survey 
the opinions of those Senators on the 
Foreign Relations Committee. After doing 
so I found that, with the exception of 
Robert Griffin of Michigan, every single 
member of that committee has stated that 
he will vote for ratification.
Even Senate Majority Leader Robert 
Byrd has stated that he will vote and lobby 
for the ratification of the Treaty. After 
listening to Byrds testimony formally at 
the mark-up committee meeting, and 
casually on the Senate subway, it became 
apparent that he is supporting this Treaty 
so heavily with the hope of improving his 
much-strained relationship with the Pres
ident. Its no secret on the Hill that Tip 
ONeill has replaced Byrd as the Presidents 
chief confidante and buddy. Some say that 
Byrd even has trouble reaching Mr. Carter 
at the White House, as the President prefers 
not to deal with him.
Whatever debates go on at the Senate in 
the next few weeks, one can be assured 
that the Senate will ratify the Panama 
Canal Treaties with at least five amend
ments. A rough estimate at this point 
would see the Senate vote going 8020 in 
favor of the Treaty. Therefore, whether 
we like it or not, the Senate will surrender 
Panama. As Senator Charles Percy put it, 
We are aware that public sentiment ib 
against it, especially the youth, but for the 
present national security it must be 
ratified.
9 Lovell jste, 0 
% Oku... %
Six recently hired MBA's tell why you should spend 30 minutes with a Bank of America recruiter.
If They give it to you straight. 99
No vague promises, no snow 
jobs. Youll know exactly what posi
tions are open, whats expected of 
you, what the bank will do for you 
and what they wont. Its 30 minutes 
of give and take. And while youre 
learning about us, the recruiter is 
sizing you up. If he decides youre 
for us, one trip to one of our Bank of 
America units will produce a final 
decision in most cases. When the 
interview is over, youll have a very 
good idea what youll be doing over 
the next few monthsand in the 
years to come!
W The Bank offers a variety of 
career opportunities. 99
In California, youll start as a 
loan officer and head towards man
aging a community branch. You 
could be running your own profit 
center, and dealing directly with prin
cipals of business. Or you could 
enter the administrative area as a 
controller, or cashier.There are oppor
tunities, as well, in our Leasing 
Department and other specialized 
areas. As a global banker, your first 
assignment in most cases will be in 
your home country; but after a time, 
youll be involved in multinational 
transactions throughout the world
If They dont fill every nook and 
cranny with MBAs. 99 
Bank of America management 
knows that MBAs are valuable. 
Thats why they choose us with care
Richard Holmes 
Chicago, IL
Shirley Clayton 
Mountain View, CA
Stephanie Lum 
San Francisco, CA
John C. Dean, Jr. 
Houston, TX
Robert Morales 
New York, NY
Adrienne Crowe 
San Francisco, CA
and put us to work where we can do 
the most good!
It Its a young, aggressive 
company! 99
Although founded in 1906, weve 
only been doing business as Bank 
of America since 1931. Thats an 
awfully short time to have become 
the worlds leading bank!
ft Look at our annual report! 99
Dont just look at the $77 billion 
in assets. Look at the quality of our 
resources. More than 50% of the
profit comes out of international 
business. And domestically, we have 
a solid base of over one thousand 
branches throughout California.
ft Some of the best people in 
banking work here. 99
When I see the quality of the 
people who work at Bank of America, 
it makes me proud to be a member 
of the team. The professionalism 
and competence here are simply out
standing. Theyre looking for people 
who can meet these high standards.
If you want to work with some of the 
best people in banking, you owe it 
to yourself to talk to us!
Bank of America is actively 
seeking top-quality MBAs to fill a 
number of specific
* V-;," openings in California1SS||I; and around the world. 
To arrange for your 
interview, contact us. 
In San Francisco, 
Connie Colladay, P.O. Box 37000, 
San Francisco, CA 94137. 
In New York, Fred Rynders, 
Asst. V.P., 299 Park Ave., New York, 
NY 10017. 
In Chicago, Claudia Luebbers, 
Asst. V.P., 233 So. Wacker Dr., 
Chicago, IL 60606. 
In Los Angeles, Management 
Recruitment Dept., P.O. Box 3609, 
Terminal Annex, Los Angeles,
CA 90051.
(11BANKof AM ERICA
An Equal Opportunity Employer
Our representative will be on campus Februaiy 16.
continued from page 4
of the class very confused. Something is 
definitely wrong when courses vary so 
much.
Last year three graduate instructors 
were dismissed in the middle of their 
courses. One was cited for unprofessional 
conduct. The other two translated the 
textbook into their native language, wrote 
their lectures in their native tongue, and 
translated them back into English. The 
lectures were unintelligible. In each case 
the GSIA faculty in the particular areas did 
little to oversee the graduate students.
Another problem is course coordination. 
Some material is covered several times 
while other material is omitted. The pri
mary offenders are five operations research 
coursesMath for Management Science I 
and II, High Math for Socail and Manager
ial Sciences I, Production I, and Operations 
Research. One AMS senior complains that 
she was taught linear programming four 
times, but was left unprepared to make the 
jump to dynamic and integer programming. 
This year the Math department did not 
offer Higher Math for Social and Manager
ial Sciences I. When the current AMS soph
omores take microeconomics, they wont 
know LaGrange multipliers. These five 
courses should be closely coordinated.
. lte prot
rc rf\USt. onagers m ^* e changes as 
red bV these.espons'b'W. j tWe km 
ie sW.Us and w QS,A doe
i of ada^a J nathet. it a'0 
,na' method- pr',ate to 
ic,ueS r, led to a number o
^r^t'on, F____________..................................................................
Another serious problem is the student 
advisory process. I tutored one student 
who got 5% right on the Production I mid
term last year. He didnt have three math 
prerequisites for the course. A number of 
AMS freshmen took microeconomics last 
year. It wasnt published that they needed 
partial derivatives and LaGrange multipliers 
for the course. These topics are usually 
covered during the sophomore year. These 
students had a hard time.
The basic problem is that there arent 
enough professors available to answer the 
students questions. Confusing course titles 
and course descriptions make the problem 
quite difficult. continued to the next page
MIXOLOGY COURSE
To Teach You Everything You Want to Know 
About Bartending
You'll Be a Bartender in Demand 
or a Toastworthy Host
EARN EXTRA MONEY
* LEARN A SKILL*
FEE - S25 FOR THREE TWO 
HOUR SESSIONS
COURSE MAY BE REPEATED 
AT ANY TIME AT NO EXTRA 
CHARGE
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 
PHONE 661 0900
MONDAYS - 
6:30 P.M. to 
8:30 P.M.

---------------------------------------------------

continued from the previous page
Curriculum Redesign
The basic AMS curriculum is quite 
sound. The curriculums, which combines 
quantitative courses like calculus, statistics, 
and operations research with the tradition
al topics of accounting, economics, finance, 
marketing, organizational psychology, writ
ing, and law, uniquely prepare students 
for business problems. The emphasis on 
quantitative methods is the uniqueadvantage of the AMS curriculum.
Most observers recognize that the pro
blem is the lack of faculty, not the curricu
lum. However, some policymakers propose 
to solve the problem by redesigning the 
curriculum so that less GSIA instructors 
are needed. I am wary of such strategies.
/ .>CW,'' /''"S..
Of $o  n,
X' -
C<"lV 
Some AMS courses parallel courses 
taught by other departments. The Organi
zational Behavior series involves topics in 
general psychology which could be covered 
in the appropriate Psychology course. Ana
lytical and Professional Writing could be 
taught in the English department. Indeed, 
the H&SS core curriculum has many 
strengths.
However, other ideas have less merit. 
For example, Elements of Industrial Ad
ministration (EIA) provides several valu
able services. EiA gives nonmajors a chance 
to survey topics in business administration. 
EIA permits prospective AMS majors to 
sample the curriculum and decide if they 
want to continue study in AMS. Even 
though EIA isnt necessary for students 
who eventually major in AMS, it provides a 
valuable service to the University commun
ity. Because EIA requires four graduate 
instructors each semester, the course is 
under attack.
Another idea is to move the Operations 
Research courses to the Math department. 
Historically, the Math department assigns 
its worst professors to AMS courses. When 
I took Higher Math for Social and Manager
ial Sciences, our instructor, a math prof, 
had the lowest individual Faculty Course 
Evaluation Instructor rating in the entire 
university. The next year the instructors 
werent much better. This year the Math 
department outdid itself. They simply 
didnt offer the course! The Math depart
ment clearly reserves its best instructors 
for graduate students, math majors, and 
engineering and science students.
Other Proposed Solutions
There are three primary solutionsex
panding the GSIA faculty, creating an in
dependent AMS department, and a com
bination of minor repairs which really 
combine the first two options.
I wish that GSIA could simply hire 
more professors and solve the problem. 
However, a graduate program designed to 
graduate one hundred students each year 
can hardly support a burgeoning undergrad 
program. GSIA itself would suffer organ
izational strains and require redesign. Sec
ond, Ph.D. s in management science are 
scarce. Academia doesnt tum out many 
management scientists each year. If GSIA 
expanded, its academic quality could di
minish noticably.
If AMS were an independent depart
ment with an independent faculty, the 
problems discussed in this article would 
probably be solved. Unfortunately,
ISRAEL DAY 
AT
CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITY
FRIDAY FEBRUARY 10 SKIBO LOBBY
11 a.m. - 2 p.m. - Israeli Exhibit & Information Booth
11 a.m. - 1 p.m. - Falafel Sale
1:30 p.m. - Movie: 1 Was Born in Jerusalem" - free in the Wherrett Room
GAA FINALE
SATURDAY FEBRUARY 11
7:30 p.m. Falafel Sale
8 p.m. Performance featuring Israeli Singer GILA RONEN
STUDENTS: $1.50, Adults: $2.50 
AT: RODEF SHALOM - FIFTH & MORE WOOD AVENUES
SPONSORED BY: B'nai Brith Hillel, Israeli Shlicha, AZF of Pittsburgh, Israel
Student Organization, Hamagshimim, AZYF, El Al, Jewish Community 
Center, IAC, Yachad, Zionist Academic Council
XEROX ON CAMPUS
Wednesday, February 8
Areas of opportunity:
Research. Technology Development, Product Design and Engineering, 
Test Engineering, Reliability Engineering, Manufacturing/Process 
Engineering, Industrial Engineering, Production Planning &
Control, Quality Control, Field Engineering,
Computer Programming.
Backgrounds sought:
ME, EE, IE, ChE, Math/Statistics, Physics, 
Chemistry, Computer Science.
Product involvement:
Xerox copiers and duplicators of unprecedented variety and capabilities; 
Telecopier transceivers and auxiliary equipment; Xerox computer facsimile 
transceivers; fast, versatile electronic typing systems; computer graphics, 
peripherals and services; and a range of other capabilities extending from 
micrographics to color copying.
Technical openings are in the Rochester (New York), Dallas, Los Angeles and 
San Francisco Bay areas. Openings not always available for every discipline in 
every location. See your Placement Director for latest information and interview 
arrangements.
An equal opportunity employer 
(male/female)
XEROX

---------------------------------------------------

AMS: Questioning priorities
Hurry! Valenines Day is Tuesday, February 14! 
Send Our FTDLoveBundle*Bouquet
SCOTT'S FLORAL AND GIFT SHOP
734 Beulah Road 
Turtle Creek, Churchill Boro 
1 mile south of Westinghouse Research.
271-4982 and 823-7142
section of a course institutionalizes faculty 
oversight of graduate students. Since a pro
fessor will be teaching with tHe graduate 
students, it will be very easy for the pro
fessor to monitor the syllabus, examina
tions, or even the day to day class opera
tion. This should prevent the most flagrant 
abuses of the present system.
Second, since several more profs will be 
permanently assigned to AMS and since 
profs will be directly involved every course, 
curriculum coordination will improve con
siderably.
Third, since there will be several profs 
which come in contact with students con
tinually, the advisory process will improve. 
The mere stabilizing force of several facul
ty members will lessen uncertainty.
Fourth, the iatroduction of more facul
ty will improve instruction. I agree that 
AMS needs more than four or five profs, 
but at least this is a workable solution.
Fifth, no disruptive organizational 
change is necessary. GSIA needs no redes
ign. No new department is created. The 
existing machine is just fine-tuned.
AMS majors have the same right to ex
cellent instruction that other CMU stu
dents enjoy. Its time for AMS majors to 
get a fair deal.
John Tumazos is currently chairperson 
of the student Senate Academic Affairs 
Committee. He has tutored AMS courses 
for the Peer Help Center for two years, 
graded for an AMS course, and taught an 
AMS course for three weeks last semester. 
He will receive a B.S. in AMS and Econo
mics this year and an M.S. in Industrial 
Administration next year.
$15.00
Who are you. telling us how to run our business?
It takes a lot of confidence to come 
fresh out of school and begin telling us 
how to do things
On the other hand, it takes an un
usual company to provide the kind of 
environment where that can happen, but 
that is exactly the environment you'll find 
at Scott Paper.
We constantly search for people 
who have the ability to respond to chal
lenge and think for themselves, those 
with the initiative and desire to seek al
ternatives, the skill and courage to con
vince others that there are better ways 
and who aren't afraid to express their 
ideas
At Scott, we admire an aggressive 
stance because we are an aggressive 
company You can make your own op
portunities with us... and we ll prove it.
Contact your 
placement office 
for information.SCOTT
an equal opportunity employer, m/f
Whai could please your Valentine more 
than a beautiful LoveBundle'Bouquet? 
Fresh, romantic flowers arranged 
with a spray of sparkling hearts. p We can send it almost any
where by wire, the FTD 
way. But hurry... 
^ Valentine's Day is 
almost here. Call 
or visit us todav.
another potentially more serious problem 
would be created. The overall academic 
standards of the department may deter
iorate. First, significantly less talented 
individuals will apply for faculty positions 
which teach exclusively undergraduates. 
Given the scarcity of potential professor 
in management science, this is a serious 
issue. Second, a faculty divorced form 
GSIAs rich research and theoretical 
development will always be inferior to
GSIAs faculty.
The compromise solution involves sev
eral less radical measures. First, hire four 
or five additional GSIA professors. Hope
fully we can recruit a handful of extra 
professors. Second, three or four professors 
should be assigned to AMS the same way 
that Professor Kerr is assigned to AMS. 
They should be full GSIA professors, but 
they should teach graduate and undergrad
uate courses each year. This is the role that
.faculty members . inr othep departments 
follow. These professors should not have 
the fringe benefit of not having to teach 
undergrads after three years tenure at CMU. 
Other departments dont offer such priv
ileges. Third, when AMS offers a course,
the first section of that course should be 
taught by a faculty member. This is the 
cornerstone of my proposal.
This proposal would accrue several 
significant advantages. First, the require
ment that a professor teach at least one

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

page 16TARTANFebruary 7, 1978
This Motion Picure RatedPassing
TARTAN FOLIO
FEBRUARY 7. 1978 / VOL. II / ISSUE 2- 
THE BIBLE, 1978
EDITOR K.A. YAKSICH
ASSISTANT EDITOR FREDERIC LA POINTE
ART DIRECTOR SCOTT POLLACK
CONTRIBUTING ARTISTS: BEN HARRY
MITCHELL SCHWARTZ 
SCOTT SIBLEY 
ROBERT ZIMMERMAN
COVER DESIGN:ANDY EPSTEIN
IBLE 1978
a FOLIO production
i '
Based on the Original Novel by
Lord Jehovah
DIRECTED BY._______MEL BROOKS
ALFRED HITCHCOCK 
FREDRICO FELLINI
CASTING
SOUND... 
m CAMERA
LIGHTING ________ __________________________________________________________SOL
COLOR--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------TECHNICOLOR
MAKE-UP
HAIRDRESSER________________________________________________________________________
COSTUME DESIGN_____________________________________________________________________
SET DESIGN________________________________________________________________EVOLUTION
SPECIAL EFFECTS____________________ _______________________________________NATURE
GAFFER____ _________________________________________________ROBERTA. ZIMMERMANN
KEY GRIP...............................................................................................................MITCHELL K. SCHWARTZ
EDITING BY_________ _ ____________KAREN ANN YAKSICH

---------------------------------------------------

February 7. 1978TARTAN-page 17
iSTARRINGf
In Order of Appearance 
???????????????????????
The Old Testament - Part 1
DON RICKLES________________aL.
SONNY&CHER.....................................-dSCLINT EASTWOOD as
"BLAMM!" ...........*
JOHN DENVER......................
'Thank God I'm a Country -'
CAPTAIN KANGAROO asNOAH
RICHARD DREYFUSS________
WALTER BRENNAN............................JS.
DON KNOTTS....................................._J1SDAN HAGGERTY_________________&
DOC SEVERINSON____ as
VICTOR BUONO___ as
CARROL O'CONNOR...........................a--
"Aw, Geez, the Jews again"
JOSEPH and his Coat of 
Many Colors
....................PHAROAHI
..................PHAROAH II
JOHNNY CARSON as
ED McMAHON____________________a-s.. How many are there, Moses?"
.MOSES (from Sinai, the 
Tonight Show)
...........................AARON
TOMMY NEUSOMasthe Golden Calf
ELECTRIC
LIGHT ORCHESTRA-----------------------as.the Burning Bush
JACKIE ONASIS---------------------------A5-
'Tm not gonna glean that stuff!''RUTH
ARNOLD SCHWARZNEGGER---------____________________SAMPS0N
JANE FONDA----------------------------------as.........................................DELILAH
MARKHAMIL"It's like hittingwomprats.....................................................Young DAVID
FebrFFua y7,................................................................................GOLIATH
GERALD R FORD -----------------------------------------------------------King DAVID
CHEVY CHASE____ as
"I will divide the child in"opsir;.....................................................SOLOMON
GEORGE WALLACE as..........................................................................ABASLOM
PHyL,SSD,t,-E"...................................*____________________JEZEBEL
GEORGE C SCOTT.-------------------------------------------NEBUCHADNEZZAR
________GOD
.. ADAM&EVE 
-.............CAIN
the Israeli 7th Armoured Brigade___JS_____*_______the Babylonian Horde
WOODY ALLEN...................................as_________DANIEL in the Lion's Den"Watch the claws guysI Fiave Vvery"Tow"threshold of death."
the JACKSON FIVE__________-___*___________JUDAH and the Macabees
ROBE RT SHAW ..........................................................................................................j*____JONAH
EVEL KNEIVEL__________________________________________________JOB
; The New Testament - Part 2
-i---------------------------------------ABEL
LEE MAJORS and
FARRAH FAWCETT.........................._as____________LOT and his Wife
Don't look back ,.. aw, look back"
GARY OWEN---------------------------------as__________the Messenger of God
MARLON BRANDO.................................................ABRAHAM (leading his
Jewish Bunch)
DORIS DAY......................................__as------------------------------------SARAH
................................Young ISSAC
..............................Old ISSAC
__________________JACOB
---------------------------------ESAU
MARY TYLER MOORE------------------as..
MASON REESE.................................
JACK BENNY................-..................-------------------__
"Of course, it's all right if we don't stay in 
the most expensive rooms. .. "
..the Virgin MARY
--------Baby JESUS
--------------JOSEPH
MARTIN LUTHER 
BILLIE JEAN
KONG----------------------------------------------as.---------------------------the THREE KINGS
GEORGE CARLIN--------------------------js-------------------------------JESUS CHRIST
MARK SPITZ......................................JS--------------------------------JOHN the Baptist
LINDA LOVELACE--------------------------as______________MARY MAGDALENE
RICHARD NIXON_______I______^___________________________HEROD
TRUMAN CAPOTE_________________________________PONTIUS PILATE
BOB DYLAN...........................................je__________________SAINT PETER
"I don't know him.. .TWANG!"
ROBERTREDFORD 
PAUL NEWMAN 
WALTER KOENIG 
LEONARD NIMOY 
WILIAM SHATNER 
DeFOREST KELLEY 
GEORGETAKEI 
and
KISS____________________________as
JACKIE STEWART................................as.---------------
"Mario Andrettius has been disqualified for 
illegal equipment on his formula 500 chariot"
THE OTHER APOSTLES 
_____JUDAH-BEN HUR
5 RICH LITTLE as THE PHARISEES AND THE
! .........................................------------------- SADUSEES
BURT LANCE
JOHN HEINZ _
r DICKCYERT.................................._________________THE MONEY LENDERS
MAYNARD G. FERGESON________as...........................................JOSHUA j
. . And the walls came tumbling down!" i
RUBEN "HUR RICANE "CARTER __as_............. BARABAS
THE TEMPTATIONS asTHE DEVIL
I JOHNBELUSHI
and as
DAN ACKROYD.......................................................................THE TWO THIEVES
STEVIE WONDER................................._as____________________REVELATIONS
JIMMY THE GREEK............................as______
THE MORMON TABERNACLE CHOIR_________A CAST OF THOUSANDS
_______.THE AUTHOR OF
THE BOOK OF NUMBERS
CHARLTON HESTON--------------------.as_NONE OF THE ABOVE
AND
JERRY MATHER_______ as
FEEDING OF THE 5000 COURTESY OF 
ARTHUR TREACHER'S
THE BEAVER

---------------------------------------------------

page 18TARTANFebruary 7, 1978
by Ben Harry
The screen is biack as the curtain opens and the 
Muzak in the theatre subsides. Pitch blackness. 
Woody Guthrie's folk tune "Little Boxes" begins 
softly, then rises quickly. The screen is still 
black.
The credits begin to roll. They are black letters 
on the black screen and run for 15 minutes. 
"Little Boxes" continues for the duration. The 
credits might be hard (or near impossible) for the 
audience to distinguish, but that's all part of the 
effect. Still blackness. The credits and the song 
end together (though most of the audience will 
not know that the credits have ended).
The screen is still black.
NarratorWe'll start at the beginning. The earth 
was a formless void. (The camera pans the uni
verse, including the formless void, earth. There 
is nothing to be seen but blackness.)
NarratorGod said,"Let there be light."
God(offscreen, softly) Hey man, got a light? 
NarratorBut there was no man to answer him. 
No man to light his Camel. So God made his 
own light. (The sound of a Bic being flicked can 
be heard. It gets louder. The screen is still dark.) 
God(mumbling) Damn Bics. Should have 
brought my matches.
NarratorAnd he saw the light (A spark is seen 
on the screen. Then a flame. Then a forest fire. 
Suddenly sirens can be heard.)
God(panicking) I'll have to do something. 
NarratorGod divided the light from the dark 
(Split screen. One side dark. One side light) 
God called the light "day," and the darkness 
"night"
God(to himself, still offscreen) I'll call the 
light "day" and the darkness "night". Or maybe 
I'll call the light "Alarm Clock" and the darkness 
"Strawberry blintzes" ...
NarratorEvening came and morning came. The
first day. The next day, God split the waters and 
called the dry land "earth" and the mass of 
waters "seas."
(Camera shows earth and water. - old film footage 
of prehistoric earth from studio files fills the 
screen as the narrator continues)
NarratorGod said,"Let the earth produce 
vegetation,"and though no one was listening to 
follow his orders, the earth did produce vege
tation. Then God said,"Let the waters be filled 
with teeming creatures", and \thq water was filled 
with all sorts of living creatures, most of which 
lacked any kind of motivation at all.
(Camera angle of prehistoric fish floating at the 
top of the water on its back with its eyes rolled 
back.)
GodThat fish looks dead. Damn it, these fish 
lack motivation.
NarratorBy then it was the fifth day and God 
decided to bless the earth with cattle, reptiles, 
and every kind of wild beast and"bird.
(As the camera quickly pans a field filled with 
wild beasts and birds, God says ... )
GodBe fruitful and multiply.
NarratorAnd God saw that it was good.
(As the animals and birds approach each other, 
God can be heard snickering offscreen. Suddenly 
the screen goes black.)
NarratorBut God was lonely.
GodWho turned off the lights?What's going on? 
NarratorSo God decided to make Man in his 
own image.
God(noisily falling over furniture. The screen is 
still black, but the sound of God rustling can be 
heard.) Gotta find that light switch. I've gotta 
make Man in my own image.
(The sound of a light switch is heard, and the 
screen is filled with a brilliant view)
GodI found it!
(The scene is a modern apartment. Pure Better 
Homes and Gardens. God can not be seen.) 
NarratorGod made man and saw that he was 
pretty good, and then decided to make woman, 
because he figured she'd be even better.
(Adam appears in the middle of the apartment, 
out of nowhere.)
Adam-(to God, who can not be seen) Where am 
I? Who are you? Who's buried in Grant's tomb? 
God(still offscreen, and fatherly) Ah . . . the 
inquistive mind of this man I created. I'm setting 
out to make you a partner.
AdamWhy am I naked? Who gave you that 
necklace? Who are you?
GodI am the Lord.
AdamAnd who am I?
GodYou are also the Lord. I made yog in my 
image ,didn't I?
AdamAnd where's this partner you're giving me? 
GodGo to sleep.
Adam How can I sleep? What is sleep? 
GodYou've got a lot to learn, but I shall show 
you the way.
AdamYou've got a lot of explaining to do. 
GodSleep.
(Adam suddenly falls asleep. Fade to operating 
room. Adam is on table)
NarratorSo God took from Adam's rib and 
made woman.
(Hands are shown in an operation. File film of 
broken rib mending operation.)
NarratorAnd God called this rib, "Eve". 
(Hand holds up chunk of rib and smacks it gently 
as if smacking a new born baby.) 
GodYou shall be called "Eve".
(There is no response from the rib. Adam is 
heard moaning on the operating table. Fade out 
to scene II in Garden where the evil snake mis
takes Eve (the rib) for another snake.)
And We Saw It Was
Good: A Review
by Scott Sibley
The set? Well done, with most scenes on 
location. The cast? All-star. The film work? 
Outstanding. The special effects? Rivalling 
Star Wars. The story? Well-known. The movie? 
The Bible.
Just about everyone has at least heard of 
this story. Many people have read much in
to the story. Personally, I don't think this mov
ie measures up to my preconceived notions.
The screenplay comes across as a series of 
loosely connected short scenes. This is prob
ably good since few people could sit through 
the entire eight hours. Anyone at all familiar 
with the book can come in at any time with
out losing much continuity. More common, 
though, was people entering the theatre at the 
start of the epic and leaving part way through. 
Many people left three-quarters of the way 
through  at the beginning of Part Two. There 
seemed to be a break in the flow of the story 
at this point, making it a good time to sneak 
out I was pretty exhausted then, too, but since I 
was paid to review this movie, I stayed. 
I was glad I did, too, because many of the events 
of the first half made more sense after seeinci 
the entire show. Something would be lost if 
you missed the first half, but the second half 
seems to wrap it up and tie all the loose ends 
together.
The cast may be all-star, but I don't think 
all the stars were cast well. Some of them just 
don't seem right. The Temptations played their 
part well. Mary Tyler Moore filled the bill just 
perfectly. John Denver was precious, and the 
Three Kings were excellent. But who is Dick 
Cyert and what is he doing in this movie? And 
what happened in Part Two? The producer 
did some poor interpretation when he cast 
the part of God. I just can't look up to ( or 
cneel down to) a Don Rickies God. With Mason 
Reese and George Carlin in such out-of-char
acter roles, I seriously doubt whether the pro
ducer read all of the script It seemed as if the 
production crew hurried through the final section 
without much thought
The first half of the movie is well done, but 
if you intend to watch the entire film, you're 
going to be disappointed. I would suggest that 
you get a copy of the book and read various 
sections at your leisure, instead.
???

---------------------------------------------------

ENTERTAINMENT
Lost souls in PPT's " Slow Dance..."
A theatre review 
Play: Slow Dance on the Killing 
Ground 
Producer: Pittsburgh Public Theatre
by Karen Locitzer
No hiding place. Thats what the man 
says. He says it over and over in the play. 
He says, No hiding place. . .the world out 
there. . .thats somebody elses turf. 
Theatre sometimes offers blunt fantasies, 
but sometimes it offers barren truths. Slow 
Dance on the Killing Ground at the Pitts
burgh Public Theatre does the latter. The 
title of the play, obscure and poetic, rolls 
across the page and through the brain with 
no hint of the emotional violence within.
Its one of those plays that starts out 
.funny, but ends with the characters and 
the audience not knowing what to think or 
say or feel. Striving for a somewhat preten
tious moral, William Hanley writes about 
three characters who influence each others 
lives profoundly.
Theres Glas, an old German shopkeeper 
with a limp, an impenetrable silence, and a 
store window so dusty, you cant see out 
of it. Randall, a jive-talking dude with a 
black cape, satin shirt and an I.Q. of 187 
asks Glas at one point Why the window is 
so dirty and the old man replies, Theres 
nothing out.there that I care to see. Then, 
theres Rojie, who wears a very phony red 
wig, (her attempt at glamor), and who talks 
like a machine gun with the two syllable 
vowels of a New Yorker. On her way to an 
abortionist, she got lost looking for the 
Brooklyn Bridge.
Glas and Randall spar with each other 
in Glass rectangular store. As opponents, 
they seem unfairly matched: Randalls 
sharp and lively comments about Glas seem 
to leave the shopkeeper more tightly lock
ed behind the .. .do not disturb sign hung 
around* his neck.. And Glas counters 
phlegmatically, patiently repeating his sim
ple questions: Why does Randall wear sun
glasses at night? What was he running from 
when he ran into the store? Why must he 
talk that way if he has an I.Q. of 187? 
Randall gets more,and more edgy as he 
evades these questions.
A strange relationship builds between 
the two, epitomized by their reactions to 
the slang terms sonny and daddy-oV 
As they recognize themselves in each other, 
they become increasingly hostile toward 
the ironic nicknames until finally Randall 
lunges his umbrella at Glas, shouting for 
him to call him by his real name.
Their relationship reaches a climax as 
Randall delivers Glass long-awaited judge
ment of .. .guilty of the denial of life and 
guilty of continuing to live.. Through 
these comic touches, Hanley offers those 
with weaker psyches this hiding place of 
comedy, deserting the top heavy, but vital, 
moral of his play.
Terry Schreiber, the director, and Karl 
Eigsti, the set iesigner, are sensitive to the 
framework of the play, and bring Hanleys 
point home through the design of their 
production. They take ideas from Richard 
Schechners philosophy of environmental 
theatre: an audience should not merely 
watch a play, they should live in it as well; 
that by sharing the physical world of the 
characters, they can better understand 
their experiences.
The theatre has its seats arranged on
three levels of metal scaffolding which 
surrounds a rectangular stage. Shelves full 
of shopkeeping thingslight bulbs, rolls of 
towels, cartonsare hung on the scaffold
ing, extending the stage area to include the 
audience area. During the play, Glas takes 
inventory from these shelves, placing his 
ladder in the aisle, talking to Randall over 
his shoulder.
Another example of environmental the
atre is at the beginning. As the audience 
walks in and waits for the play to begin, 
Glas is sitting in his kitchen, finishing a 
meal and reading a book. Five minutes be
fore the lights go down, he washes his 
dishes. The audience is walking into his 
life and home, not into a theatre.
Given the plays basic framework of
inside as safethe store and outside as 
dangerous, the extension of boundaries 
provided by Schechners technique is essen
tial for implementing the plays central 
premise. When Randall becomes unusually 
violent at one point, he rushes off-stage, 
bangs open the theatre entrance and cries, 
There, out there its the real world. 
And its a killing ground.
Demain Leakes shoulder-swinging sachay and cool dude mannerisms bespeak 
Randall so clearly that if he had no voice, 
his personality would still have come 
through. Jane Galloway, the impassioned 
cupcake Rosie, has contorted arm gestures 
and an almost spastic stance that are as 
graceless as her characters personality is 
gauche. Robert Nichols, as the shopkeeper,
wears a permanent grimace as he runs his 
life with a weary and stubborn inefficiency. 
His terse voice and bitter lips convey the 
old mans tortured soul with a pride that 
invokes respect, not pity.
Nichols and Leake can also be seen in 
Medal of Honor Rag, played in repertory 
with Slow Dance on the Killing Ground. 
Both plays are about balancing a persons 
inner scales of justice. While they offer no 
philosophical hiding places, they do pro
vide refuge into good theatre.
Performances are alternate and the run 
is from February 1 to March 5. For ticket 
information, call 323-1900. The Allegheny 
Theatre is on the Northside, behind the 
Allegheny Center Mall. The 54C bus from 
Oakland goes directly to the theatre.
Travolta's star "Fever
//
A film review 
Film: Saturday Night Fever 
Star: John Travolta
by John Morris
What do you do when you have a hot 
new box-office property who needs a 
new vehicle? Apparently make a film like 
Saturday Night Fever, directed by John 
Badham and starring John Travolta.
The plot and the dialogue arent impor
tant in this type of venture, nor is mental 
stimulation. More important is confirming 
or crystallizing the stars image via a series 
of superficial and unrelated sequences, 
mostly of interest to homy, misguided 
adolescents. This genre reached its zenith 
with the Billy Jack series, and Saturday 
Night Fever owes much to this form it. 
It is a simpleminded conglomeration of 
disco, teenage gang warfare, some lip ser
vice to religion, and a heavy dose of sex. 
Perhaps it is an expression of the seedy 
seventies state of mind: Victims of soc
iety, the films characters are somehow 
tragically ennobled through their contacts 
gang bangs, pregnancies, broken oken 
noses and suicide.
Like so many of Hollywoods recent 
offerings, much of the dialogue revolves 
around expletives concerning bodily func
tionsa means for the screenwriter, 1 
suppose, to communicate the characters 
poignant inability to articulate any more 
than the basest of concepts, a method 
that causes me to suspect the scripters 
abilities. Its effort to recapture the West 
Side Story aura seem rather odd, a film 
whose success was due to Rita Moreno, 
sadly absent in this one. Perhaps the pre
mise is that tough guys can be great dan
cers as long as they get into rumbles, too. 
What disco has to do with this is anybodys 
guess. Touted as a disco film, I found 
little to relate to my disco experience, es
pecially in the music, mainly by the Bee 
Gees. An analysis of the political and 
social ramifications of the nations first 
technologically inspired musical artform on 
youth might have been interesting, but the 
setting for this film might just as easily 
have been a rock concert or a fifties sock 
hop. Also hard to believe was the over
powering aphrodisiac effect of this disco. 
Most disco behavior in reality ranges from 
zombielike to peevishly strategic.
Karen Gorney, the female lead, attended 
Carnegie-Mellons Drama school. Id like to 
say she is a credit to her scholastic training 
but her performance at best is mediocre. 
She had the accent, if not the spirit, of 
Brooklyn, and even less of the joie de 
vivre or pure frantic energy 1 assume
would accompany your native New York
ers Manhattan social climbing. Much of the 
time she seems one dimensional, and ad
mittedly her characters lines arent condusive to depth. Looking older than the 
part, I noticed a few instances when she 
was shot through a filter. Even the Tra
volta characters reason for pursuing her, 
i.e. her dancing ability, poses no threat to 
Judith Jamison. For this reason I felt 
cheated, and the only lasting conviction 
this film gave me was that the Puerto
Ricans should have won the dance contest.
Besides a few crafty supporting per
formances, the only reason for this films 
success is John Travolta. His characters 
conception is also muddled, but he trans
cends. He proves he can hold even the 
shoddiest of story lines together, by the 
sheer force of his prescence. Maybe the 
star system isnt dead. Travoltas future 
success will depend more on his ability to 
project a variety of personality types other 
than his own.
Another nice guy
by David Doremus
Kenny Rankin is nice. Seriously. All his 
albums taken together add up to little 
more than a nice guy singing about nice 
things in a nice way. This doesnt mean 
Rankin is bad or a failure, in fact, taken 
on his own terms, he is rather successful. 
I dont sing about ugly things. . . Im 
probably a romantic to the last degree, 
he says. This is a very apt description of 
Rankins music, it has no rough edges, 
no harshness. The songs are smoothly 
arranged and performed, pleasant, easy 
to listen to and, sometimes, emotionally 
affecting.
Rankin was bom and raised in New 
York, listening to Latin and Carribean
music and these influences were obvious in 
his earlier recordings. Unfortunately, his 
recent albums tend to disappear under 
excessive production. The last album he 
released, The Kenny Rankin Album,
was arranged and conducted by Sinatra 
veteran Don Costa. A large part of 
Rankins talent lies in subtlety and was 
smothered under a heavy handed wash of 
soppy orchestral charts that seemed more 
suited for Muzak or dentists offices than 
for a self-styled romantic rock singer.
In concert however it is a completely 
different story. Rankin is a survivor of 
ten years of touring and is a highly pro
fessional performer. If his albums lack 
vigor and suffer from too much polish, his 
showshave just the right blend df both. He 
is always in control and knows how to 
work with an audience. The emotional 
ambivalence of many of his records can 
become intensely moving live. Now if 
hed put out a live albu

---------------------------------------------------

Drama and Music Departments 
to present "Carousel"
The stormy romance cf Billy Bigelow 
and Julie Jordan will be re-enacted again in 
a joint production by Camegie-Mellon Unijversitys Music and Drama Departments of 
Carousel, Rodgers and Hammersteins 
i famous musical.
i Set for evening performances (8:20 PM) 
ion February 9 through 11, and 13 through 
118, Carousel will also be performed at two
 Saturday matinees on February 11 and 18 
! at 2:00 PM. Ticket prices are $4 and $5.50;
 for additional information or reservations
 call the CMU box office at 578-2407.
First produced in 1945, Carousel has 
i charmed a generation of theatre goers with
 one of the most popular scores in the hisi tory of musical theatre. If I Loved You, 
i June is Busting Out All Over, and You 11 
i Never Walk Alone have become established 
i classics on their own; among the other 
i numbers in the show are Mister Snow, 
% What's the Use of Wondering, A Real Nice 
! Clambake, and the Soliloquy (My BoyUni).
!, The Camegie-Mellon production of 
! Carousel is the third annual joint Music and 
! Drama show, featuring the talents of students in both departments and those en
rolled in a special Musical Theatre option. 
Heading the 37 member cast are Sandra 
Gogen as Julie Jordan and Glenn Morrissey 
as Billy Bigelow. The show will feature a 
23 piece orchestra under the musical direc
tion of Robert Page. Choreography is by 
Paul Draper.
Carousel is being directed by Jack 
Allison, whose last Pittsburgh show was the 
Cargegie-Mellon Theatre Companys pro
duction of A Hunting We Will Go. Ca
rousel is the. most poetically soaring of all 
American musicals, and has the most 
memorable romantic score ever written 
Allison says. Its one of the first realistic 
musical comedies and for us, it will provide 
a return to romance and fantsay.
Carousel is set in a small New England 
village during the 1880s and follows the 
action of young Julie Jordan who falls in 
love with an amusement park barker and 
bully named Billy Bigelow. Based on 
Ferenc Holnars Lilliom, Carousel has a 
score by Richard Rodgers with book and 
lyrics by Oscar Hammerstein II.Glenn Morrissey and Sandra Bogen in Carousel
Weaving and Soft Sculpture 
at Gallery this week
by John Goodman
| Were sitting in Skibo, which is no place 
to be talking about Art. Or at least not the 
'kind of art created by Michael Olijnyk and 
{Claire Wyzenbeek, whose show opens to{night at the Gallery. Good art is attrac
tive, says Micael, it makes you want to 
jstop and look at it.
Michael is a weaver who makes threeJdimensional tapestries which, unlike Skibo, 
{are attractive. You cant really say what 
{causes that, he continues, I can start out 
{with what I think is a good idea. But as I 
{weave, I usually make changes. New ideas 
{come to me which make the design better. 
{Its part of the process of weaving, which is 
{building; bottom to top. I never know 
{what a piece will look like until Im done. 
{ Claire, sitting across the table from us, 
agrees. Its so true. When Inj doing a 
{piece of soft sculpture, sewing together the 
| fabric or cutting out shapes, Im often sur
prised at what I come up with. Its impos^
 sible to plan. You make a mistake and it 
gives you a whole new idea about the art. 
| There are no mistakes, insists Michael, 
you shouldnt even call them that. Theyre 
what you learn from, theyre necessary ex
perience. Sometimes, Ill be all finished 
with a piece and not really like it. But then 
you just live with it, re-work it maybe, add 
to it or re-dye it, and the piece becomes 
new.
 Claire has had experiences like that too. 
j I may do a drawing that I dont like. And 
rather than just throw it away, Ill crumple 
it up, and she demonstrates, crushing and 
mangling an imaginery piece of paper, or 
spit on it, or step on it. When you look at 
it again youll often see something new and 
inspiring.
Looking at their work, youd never suspect these origins in chaos and chance. 
Michaels work is so carefully crafted you
can believe he doesnt conceive of mistakes. 
You cant imagine one happening. His 
work with fibers shows an overwhelming 
care and sensitivity for the textures and 
dynamics of the materials. They are draped 
and intertwinned into gently evocative 
forms.
It is Claire who first calls attention to 
this subliminal power of art. I use lots of 
symbolic imagery in my work; some is 
obvious; human figures, parts of the body. 
But some is more personal and cryptic. It 
doesnt matter though, because everyone 
will get a different interpretation. All thats 
important if the work is successful, is the 
emotional recognition, the sense that the 
work means something to you, that it re
calls some previously experienced mood.
She will be showing soft sculpture, a 
term given to stuffed fabric firms, and 
drawings, both of which elicit a strong 
viewer involvement. Some people enjoy a 
sense of surprise with my work. Others 
find it erotic; those more prudish might be 
shocked. But I dont intend it that way. 
The soft materials do particularly lend 
themselves to a sensual interpretation, and 
this is a crucial part of the work. Theyre 
nice materials to work with, she goes on 
to say, pleasant textures to manipulate 
and sculpt.
Its like playing, adds Michael, who 
agrees the materials are a large part of the 
pleasure. Were kids who never grew up.
But its work too. Claire emphasizes, 
A lot of people outside of Art think we 
do nothing all day but play. But its hard 
to make your art work and when it 
doesnt theres a strong feeling of defeat. 
But when it does, theres a great satisfac
tion.
Shes right, Michael concludes, Art 
is fun. And for these two at least, it 
seems to be true.
Co-star of "Fever" 
is CMU alumni
by Joan Livitski
The name John Travolta undoubtedly 
rings a bell, but does Karen Lynn Gomey? 
Well, it should ring bells, school bells. 
Ms. Gomey is nothing less than a CamegieMellon alumni. In case you havent been 
able to get your nose out of the books in 
the past couple of months. Karen Lynn, as 
she prefers to be called, plays Stephanie, 
the older woman who causes the rise in 
temperature in Travolta in Saturday Night 
Fever.
Its far from Karens first big break
through. Her major exposure started in 
1970 when she captured and created the 
role of Tara in All My Children. When 
thinking back on the five years she spent 
on the soap, she reveals that it felt like 
10 million years. Now she is far from the 
part of vulnerable housewife both in the 
role offers die is receiving as well as in the 
manner in which shes handling her per
sonal life.
After graduating from CMU in 66 with 
a BFA, Ms. Gomey went on to get an M.A. 
in acting from Brandeis University. Here 
she met and married Ken Golden the 
professor of film at that same institution. 
Divorcing several years later, Ms. Gomey 
gives the reasons as being trapped and that 
I wasnt as free as I wanted.
Freedom is one thing Karen is deter
mined to have plenty of. She fired her 
agent when he refused to let her audition 
for the role of Stephanie because he 
thought she wasnt the right type. Denying 
any emotional commitment, she even gave 
away her cat because he needed to much 
emotional attention, while claiming that 
my guitar is my man.
Music is in fact a deep, embedded part 
of Ms. Gomeys life, stemming back to a, 
composer father, Jay Gomey, whose song
list includes Brother Can You Spare A 
Dime? Previously part of a folk-rock group 
called Wendigo with which she sang and 
played guitar, she recently organized a 
four-member band appropriately naming it 
Karens Band. Ms. Gomey writes much of 
her own musical material, having 25 songs 
to date. She terms her sound as punk jazz 
but is also preparing a blues album.
Proving herself far more reaching than 
a disco-maniac with a voice, Ms. Gomey is 
well-versed in reincarnation, astrology and 
T.M. Along with finding solace in art, 
Karen has also discovered another advanta
geous economic venture in the selling of 
her silk-screen work.
The preparation for the film was long 
and harsh for Ms. Gomey, including eight 
hours of dance classes a day for months 
before and during filming.
Every step in the dance sequences was 
horeographed. Believe me, its easier to 
leam lines than steps, confesses Karen.
But the real lessons came not so much 
on the dance floor but from a background 
of phonetics back at good ol CMU. Karen 
reveals that she was able to master the 
thick Brooklyn accent used by Stephanie 
through techniques she picked up at her 
alma mater for breaking down accents pho
netically and hanging around Brooklyn 
groupies waiting for a glimpse of Travolta.
Since the movie, Saturday Night Fever 
openned, the offers havent stopped rolling 
in for Ms. Gomey. Film offers, singing 
engagements, talk-show interviews and 
magazine cover stories are all there for 
the choosing.
As for aspirations, Ms. Gorney sees her
self as a hot property and I want to do 
something better than I have. Yet when 
confronted with the prospect of another 
dance movie, Karen Lynn Gomey confides, 
Yeah, that would be fabulous.

---------------------------------------------------

February 7, 1978-TARTAN-page 21
t
1>
Yale's Inge Druckrey 
speaks to Designers
by Fyrth Reckseit
Just as you would speak logically and 
oherently, so must you learn to present 
our visual ideas in a meaningful and 
nderstandable way. So says Inge Druckey, Graphic Designer and Assistant Pro
cessor at Yale University College of Art, 
when she shared her view of Design Pracce and Education with the Camegie[ellon audience. The Department of Degn welcomed her as guest speaker at the 
)esign Issues Lecture, Wednesday evening 
'ebruary 1.
Professor Druckrey, a native of Ger
many, studied under Armin Hoffman in 
Jasel, Switzerland. She was invited to this 
country in 1966 to accept a teaching 
position iat Kansas City Art Institute under 
the chairmanship of Roh Roy Kelley, pre
sently an Andrew W. Mellon Visiting Proessor at Camegie-Mellon. She has also 
aught at the Philadelphia College of Art 
and free-lances for Yale Universitys School 
f Medicine, Art, Music and Forestry and 
Environment. Professor Druckrey repre
sents the ideal woman designers dream: 
eauty, dignity, sophistication along with 
Jrofessional successes and capabilities.
Her lectures provoked interesting disussion by presenting slides of her own 
ork and the work of her graduate stuents at Yale. The presentation illustrated 
series of exercises, characteristically 
Swiss, i.e. clear unified and simple. These 
xercises demonstrated exquisite craftmanlip, illustrated the design process of contant exploration and revision and also 
ave examples of the Swiss system which 
educes visual and verbal elements to a 
rid. Because the Swiss style of Design 
so ordrly and scientific, each designers 
raftsmanship and method bears a strong 
esemblance. I later asked Professor Ed
Fisher Jr. about this highly disciplined 
Design methodology. He replied, If only 
pursued to its own end, the method results in imagery which at first glance seems 
to suppress individualism; but when the in
dividual designer moves beyond the system 
as taught, it can transform and delineate 
the individualism of the designers work. 
In addition to her ideas about design 
practice, Inge Druckrey believes a design 
instructor should accept a major respons
ibility for the development of design stu
dents. The purpose lies in guiding the in
dividual student in the direction of. his 
individual potential. This development can 
only occur when both student and teacher 
commit themselves, the student working 
and the teacher constantly observing the 
students processes. Because each student 
has different timing for development, the 
education should extend as long as neces
sary allowing for development of skills 
and abilities. Professor Druckreys idealism 
also dictates no deadlines. Respecting the 
slow process necessary for good design, she 
believes hurried deadlines destroy potenti
ally excellent design possibilities. I asked 
Professor Alessandro DeGregori to com
ment in regard, It is fortunate that Inges 
students are able to work in such a situa-: 
tion which rarely occurs in current design 
practice. When asked what students bring 
from this educational experience to a 
world dominated by deadlines, profits and 
compromises; DeGregori answers, Hope
fully you bring a habit, a value system 
where integrity and quality of work have 
priority over routine and stereotype. 
The Design Department eagerly awaits 
the next lecture; Thursday evening Febru
ary 16 at 8:00 PM in Science Hall 7500. 
The guest speaker is celebrated graphic 
designer, Milton Glasner; his topic, Ob
serving Some Obsessions. 
Bishop offers subtle 
humor in poetry
poetry review 
*oet: Elizabeth Bishop 
roducer: International Poetry 
Forum
by Joan Livitski
Elizabeth Bishops poems read like the 
avel journal of an exotic vagabond whose 
ission in life seems to be to scale past 
lose boundaries of what we all think we 
enow. Discontent with tourist book pereptions, Ms. Bishop sallied forth like Colmbus to see the unseen, but alsp like a 
ood Sherlock Holmes she makes evider. 
le nuances in daily habitats.
In her latest book, Geography III, hei 
oetry speaks of the expected subjects of 
rth and its creatures, and yet not in pre
sumed terms. Ms. Bishops control of 
anguage does more than provide a vivid 
escription. We hear each brook, each 
>reeze, each rustling wind and crackling 
>ranch. Her poems put us there as no 
ane, train, or car can.
For writing in a time when editors red 
ens cross superfluous adjectives, Elizabeth 
shops poems trail on and on their route 
aringly, yet continually all there. Nothing 
them is purely embellishment. Each 
odification is more exposure time for 
eveloping here clearly focused photos.
She writes of Crusos far off island, 
ova Scotia and immediate surroundings, 
>ut theyre all home, all familiar to her. 
lach is part of her life whether its a room 
her house that she daily passes through 
a cubicle in her mind from which she 
never steps out. I feel taken to each place
by Ms. Bishop not only to see as she does, 
but to be able to see a little more of the 
author herself.
One thing I learned is that Elizabeth 
Bishop has an endearing subtle humor that 
she slips into her poems like Cinderellas 
toes into glass. She takes what everyone 
thinks but never dared approach saying 
out loud. Its a witty perception of just 
whats there, taken and meant in the most 
innocent of ways much like an Erma Bombeck type of humor. I dont believe Ms. 
Bishop could be malicious even if she 
tried.
This last trait may be in part cause of 
of the other item I learned, namely that 
Ms. Bishop cannot read her poems to do 
them justice. She may be as sweet and 
grey as my grandmother, but she lacks 
the expression and enthusiasm in her 
speech that is implied on the page. Play 
a tape of Ann Landers at a slower speed 
and you get a sense of the tonation.
In her poems I can catch the curiosity 
the desire for exploration and be taken on
ward to new and wonderful places. One 
thing I could count on is that Elizabeth 
Bishop would more than welcome me along. And riding aboard her language ex
press is one form .of transportation I
would never mind.The next reading of the Forum s 77-78
season will be given by Stanley Bumshaw 
and Barbara Howes on Feb. 22 in the Car
negie Lecture Hall at 8 PM. Tickets are 
$3; $2 for students and senior citizens. 
They may be purchased at Kaufmanns, 
Sears, the Pitt Student Union, and the 
Forum office in Carnegie Library.
 *

1 < " VV '* *
Benson's new album
A record review 
Album: Weekend in L.A.
Artist: George Benson
by Tim Shields
Let me say up front that I am a George 
Benson fan, and have Jt>een since 1972, 
when I heard his White Rabbit album. It 
featured Bensons lyrical guitar interpret
ing the Jefferson Airplanes classic song.The 
man was a revelation to me. I had never 
heard a guitar played quite the way George 
Benson played it. It fascinated me. (Like I  
said Im a fan). From that album, as I fol
lowed Bensons career, I noticed one major 
change: He moved from CTI Records, 
where Benson felt he had limited musical 
freedom, to Warner Brothers in 1976. At 
Warners Benson was paired with a producer 
named Tommy LiPuma for his next album 
project.
It soon proved to be a most fortuitous 
pairing, for out of those initial Warner Bro
thers sessions came the best selling jazz al
bum of all time, the 1976 release Breezin 
which sold over two million copies. The 
song that catapulted the album to those 
lofty heights was a Leon Russell tune call
ed This Masquerade. Which points up an 
interesting contrast. Benson had gained a 
measure of fame in the 60s and early 70s 
as a jazz guitarist, yet his breakthrough 
came as a vocalist. It was, at least until 
then, an unfamiliar role for me to see Ben
son in.
It is that late fame gained through his 
vocal talents that leads George Benson into 
a trap on his third Warner Brothers album, 
entitled Weekend in L.A. (2WB 3139). In 
other words, fame does not a singer make. 
On Weekend Benson makes the mistake of 
trying to sing on five of the eleven songs. 
Only one of the vocalized tunes, On Broad
way, hits the musical bulls-eye. The remake 
of the Drifters classic 60s hit proves that 
Benson need not be a boring vocalist, and 
only suggests that Benson pick his vocal 
spots more carefully. On the four other 
tunes in which Benson tries to sing his 
voice seems quite inadequate to the task it 
is put to. Benson tries his old hit formula, 
using a Leon Russell tune, to little success 
on another Russell composition, Lady 
Blue. Down Here On The Ground is an
other weak failed track. The Greatest Love 
Of All from the movie about Muhammed 
Ali, The Greatest, is handicapped by insip
id lyrics: The greatest love of all is learn
ing to love yourself. And its narcissistic 
to boot. Its All in Die Game has been 
covered , at one time or another, by most 
of the artists in soul music. (At least it 
seems that way.) Anyhow, Bensons sing
ing suffers by comparison to any of them.
But I dont want to make it sound as if I 
dont like the album because I do. I like it 
a lot. The album opens with a perfect ex
ample of what Benson does best: lyrical J 
guitar lines laid on top of a solid rhythm | 
section, with added, fla&hes of piano and { 
other keyboards on the side. On Broadway \ 
showcased the dynamic rhythm section | 
that consists of Stanley Banks on bass, J 
Harvey Mason on drums, and features J 
Ralph MacDonald as a percussion special- J 
ist.
Ralph MacDonald is someone you | 
should be aware of. He is an exceptional ta- J 
lent. He has played on almost forty percent | 
of all the jazz albums currently listed on | 
the jazz charts. He played on sixteen songs | 
that were nominated for Grammys last J 
year alone. Some people consider them- | 
selves fortunate if they get one nomination } 
in a lifetime for the record industries | 
Oscar. He has also played on the Grammy J 
song of the year for the last five years. It is J 
MacDonalds unerring sense of rhythm 
that drives the superlative On BroadwayJ 
I always was a sucker for a hot Latin beat } 
anyway, and the percussion breakdown j 
at the end of On Broadway, is almost J 
worth the piece itself.
Another slight problem crops up in | 
Bensons choice of personnel for this al- J 
bum. The team remains unchanged from *J 
Breezin  through In Flight to Weekend in J 
L.A.. When I say unchanged, I mean un-J 
changed. Even the Assistant Producer, En- J 
gineer and Mixer of the new album remain J 
unchanged from the previous ones, as well J 
as all the instrumentalists. The problem j 
with that is the danger of stagnation within J 
the group.
After two years and three albums, are i 
there any new musical areas for them to i 
explore? The answer to that is a qualified i 
yes. At times there is a flash of a unique i 
idea, a hint of an innovative solution to a i 
musical problem. An interpretation of i 
Stevie Wonders We All Remember Wes,\ 
shows the relaxed Benson style at its best,! 
easily swinging along with the groove and! 
lightly soaring above it. Ode To A Kudu ! 
and As Love both provide a pleasant! 
change of pace from the driving tone of the*! 
album. Their sensitivity goes a long way to-,! 
wards keeping the album from becoming! 
boring. !
The engineering for this live, two record! 
set is impressive, I found myself at times! 
forgetting that I was listening to a live al-1 
bum at all, only to be reminded by the ap-! 
plause at the end of a song, that there was! 
indeed an audience there at the Roxy in! 
Hollywood on September 30th and Octo-! 
ber 1st and 2nd.
Is the album worth buying? YES!! 
For the person that as of yet does not own ! 
any Benson, this album displays what he ! 
does well, without becoming predictable. J 
For the Benson fan, the all new material! 
used on the two records (instead of resort-! 
ing to a live greatest hits collection) pro-! 
vides interest for anybody.

---------------------------------------------------

page 22-TAR TAN-February 7, 1978
PBT excels under new director
A dance review 
Dances: The Merry Widow and 
Swan Lake 
Producer: Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre
by Knox Uguccioni
Bravo! In less than a week the Pitts
burgh Ballet Theatre has produced two 
< hits. First, the light and comic Merry 
Widow and then the tragic Swan Lake. 
Their new artistic director, Patrick Frantz, 
seems to be largely responsible for the up
ward surge in quality, especially in sets and 
costumes. They have become a truly pro
fessional company with extraordinary ta
lents.
Their production of The Merry Widow 
was perfect in every way. The dancing was 
excellent and clearly expressed both plot 
and mood. Costumes and sets were ex
quisite tum-of-the-century creations and 
evoked a delightful, magical kingdom for 
the ballet.
The story takes place in the tiny, and 
bankrupt, principality of Marsovia. The 
prince, danced by Dennis Poole, is urged 
to improve the state of the treasury by 
marrying the wealthy widow, Sonia. He 
refuses, but after seeing Sonia at a ball he 
falls hopelessly in love with her. Mr. 
Poole was a dynamic prince and all things a 
prince is expected to be; dashing, gallant 
and handsome. Jo Ann McCarthy was the 
widow Sonia; a dainty, desirable and es
pecially merry widow.
Meanwhile, the baroness is flirting with 
a count and when the baron gets suspi
cious, Sonia pretends to flirt with the 
count instead. When Sonia announces her 
engagement to the count, the prince is 
heartbroken. He drowns his sorrow in 
champagne and in a haunting sequence, 
attempts to dance with an imaginary Sonia. 
The vision fades and he finds himself sur
rounded by can-can girls. The baron and 
Sonia arrive, the girls leave, and the prince 
realizes that the engagement was false. So 
the prince and the widow are reconciled 
and the treasury is secure.
The comic qualities of the choreography 
were fully exploited without losing their 
charm or elegance. While the baroness 
flirted with the count, the baron was 
chasing everything in petticoats; each 
seemingly unaware of the other, but trying 
not to get caught.
The dancing was inspired and every 
member of the company was excellent. 
Gregory Glodowski was a romantic count 
and Gemot Petzold was hysterical as the 
eccentric baron. The action flowed 
smoothly, following the music and 
integrating the scene changes without de
stroying the mood. The transition from the 
ballroom to a wood was stunning. As the 
couples continued their waltz, the sets flew 
out and the wood flew in and the lighting 
correspondingly indicated the change in 
locales. The flat sets were painted realistic
ally, yet by their flatness gave a makebelieve mood to the production. Hopefully 
this Pittsburgh premiere will remain in the 
repertory of the Ballet Theatre.
The strains of rehearsing two entirely 
different ballets and mounting their pro
ductions are great, but the PBT managed 
to produce a brilliant production of Swan 
Lake less than a week later. The entire 
company handled this traditional, tragic 
ballet with professionalism and danced 
with incredible inspiration and energy. The
sets and costumes were excellent and gave 
the ballet a grand, epic quality, not unlike 
that of grand opera. Their incredible danc
ing and TchaikoVskys score made this a 
truly memorable production.
Mr. Poole and Miss McCarthy again 
starred as the prince and the princesstumed-swan. Their dancing was purely
feeclassical and allowed each to fully develop 
his character as well as to portray even the 
smallest details in their relationship. Mr. 
Poole was strong and athletic, yet tender in 
his love for the swan, and Miss McCarthy 
was a fragile and convincing swan. Her 
mannerisms were startlingly realistic, yet 
the young woman was still discernible be
neath that elegant swan.
The rest of the company also was ex
cellent in their character protrayals. Roger 
Triplett and Deidre Salyer were especially 
notable for their brilliant supportitive 
dancing. Mr. Triplett was very smooth and 
fluid and danced with a consistently high 
energy level. Miss Salyer was extremely 
light on her feet and her dancing was both 
precise and dramatic.
The change in quality is immediately 
recognizable and one can see the attention 
which is lavished on every aspect of the 
productions; from the huge crowd scenes 
to the tiniest sparkle. The ballets are believeable and are carefully unified. The 
Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre is truly an allaround professional company and we can 
give our thanks to Mr. Patrick Frantz. We 
are confidently and anxiously looking for
ward to the next successful season of the 
Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre.
 7 t B e 8 t B 5 1
4* Tkxa Instru
Ti ProQirammabi B7
: StructJIMVIn*ccun
LBN*c%,TX*V*
SSTSTORCLSUMyn
Mr*.*ST
#*  * 
BE<
g fo WB fw^ &m
sen T MM T 
f'tanh
m*11
The TI-57. The super slide-rule thatll get you into programming... fast and easy
Even if youve never programmed before.
For the student who re
quires slide-rule functions, the 
TI-57 delivers an exceptional 
combination of advanced 
mathematical and statistical 
capabilities. From functions 
such as trig, logs, powers, roots 
and reciprocals...to mean, var
iance, standard deviation and 
much more.
And as long as youre in 
the market for a super sliderule calculator, why not buy 
one that can also put the power, 
speed and convenience of pro
gramming at your disposal?
Programming a calculator
simply means giving it a logical 
set of instructions for accom
plishing what you want it to 
do. Programming enables you 
to solve lengthy and repetitive 
problems 
quickly 
by sub
stituting 
new vari
ables into 
the set of 
instructions 
which you . 
have al
ready entered into the machine.
The end result is more efficient use of your time in prob
lem-solving.
All this and more is ex
plained in our unique, illus
trated, easy-to-follow guide
book, Making Tracks Into 
Programming/ This 200-page 
book comes with the TI-57. It 
contains simple, step-by-step 
instructions and examples to 
help you quickly learn to use 
programming functions to 
make your problem-solving 
faster, more accurate and fun.
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
...INNOVATORS IN 
PERSONAL ELECTRONICS
Iamb eibngldIinb
 1978 Texas Instruments IncorporatedI N C ORPORATED

---------------------------------------------------

February 7, 1978-TARTAN-page 23
naex cnEHCx 2n9E cr*nEixC tn2cEiCaoh
trikbiry10, ApTayi, blTayi, lc1T, c1nky, 
0pt, tcddM, pi Wapy TarW oolky1Tr1yoW 0mu g
????? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ??????????? & 
1 LOVELINE, CMU... f
* in the Feb. 1H TARTAN ? 
fc  >*
i*
*
*
> 

*
*
fc 

*

fc

$1.00 cnE 15 FnEob. T9tAix ACbbrHC
AND MONEY/CHECK TO SKIBO INFORMATION
CbR na nE tCcnEC NCtE9rE2 ?.
LET THE WHOLE
WORLD
KNOW!
iinmnHmmanniHttn>oinHniiinianmnwntotiiHm>tniaffln>tmiiPniuniiiiiian!iiiiiwncHiiiwinnqK
PREPARE FOR:MCAT  DAT * LSAT  GMAT GREOCATVATSAT
NMB I, II, III *ECFMG* FLEX* VQE
NATL DENTAL BOARDS  NURSING BOARDS
Flexible Programs ft Hours
There IS a difference!!!
For Information Please Call:
661-2772 
ESSEX HOUSE 
NEGLEY & CENTER AVE.1
StonQeuMMPUN
EDUCATIONAL CENTER
TEST PREPARATION 
SPECIALISTS 9INCE 1938
Outside N.Y. State Only CALL TOLL FREE: 800-223-1782 
Centers in Maior US Cities Toronto, Puerto Rico and Lugano, Switzerland
nuiioiiiumiiiiaiiiiuimiiaii
PI LAMBDA PHI
Pennsylvania Beta Zeta Chapter 
Camegie-Mellon University
Welcomes its Brothers from
ALLIANCE COLLEGE 
BALDWIN-WALLACE COLLEGE 
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 
UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS 
INDIANA STATE UNIVERSITY
Ohio State University 
Pennsylvania State University 
Penn State, Altoona Campus 
University of Pittsburgh 
Washington and Jefferson College
to the
REGIONAL CONCLAVE 
at the Chapter House 
1057 Morewood Ave. 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
February 10,11,12
Ih
Identify yourself, with a haircut!
Every individual is unique. Special. One-of-a-kind. That's the 
way haircuts should be, too. Specially tailored to match you - - 
your face, your personality, your vision of yourself. Great "> 
customers always know they're getting the best 
hairstyling value for their money. That's 
because hairstyling is our only business 
That's all we do! Great "X" ... m 
than 50 salons across the country, 
ready to help you identify yourself.
IGftCfTTewecmionsiPRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
NO APPOINTMENTEVER
HAIRCUTS
(Wash-Cut f iw)
10
.00
COLORINGS PERMANENTS
unisex hair salon 
237 ATWOOD STREET
PITTSBURGH, PA 15213 25
687-3500
Mon. Tues. Wed. 10-7 
Thurs. Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 10-9 
NO APPOINTMENTS
MASSES:
7 February - Shrove Tuesday:
6:00 P.M. Anticipated Mass 
and Pancake Supper
The Oratory: 4040 Bigelow Blvd.
(Reservations Essential Call 681-3181)
8 February - Ash Wednesday:
12:00 Noon i Hunt Library
> Multipurpose Room
5:00 P.M. ) (Use Frew St. Entrance)
ASHES WILL BE DISTRIBUTED DURING THE LITURGY
SUNDAY MASSES:
7:00 P.M. Saturday Folk Mass Hunt Library
10:30 A.M. Sunday Folk Mass 1 Multipurpose Room
12:00 Noon Solemn Liturgy ------ Heinz Chapel
DAILY MASSES: Monday through Friday
12:30 NOONTIME CMU s CHAPEL (SKIBO 39)
University Oratory of the Holy Spirit Parish 
CMUs R.C. chaplaincy - Fr. Bob English 
4040 Bigelow Blvd. Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213 
(412) 681-3181
f

---------------------------------------------------

CMU ACTIVITIES BOARD 
PRESENTSKENNY RANKIN
andSTEVE GOODMAN
IN CONCERT
SATURDAY, FEB. 11,1978 
CARNEGIE MUSIC HALL
8:00 p.m.
RESERVE SEATING
TICKETS ARE $3.00 w/I.D. and
$5.00 w/o I.D.
TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE AT SKIBO INFORMATION DESK
FUNDED BY ACTIVITIES FEE

---------------------------------------------------

EVENTS
MUSIC
AB will sponsor a concert Saturday, Feb
ruary 11, with Kenny Rankin and Steve 
Goodman. It will be held at the Carnegie 
Music Hall at 8 P.M. Admission is $3 with 
ID and $5 without ID. Tickets may be 
purchased in advance at the Skibo Infor mation desk.
The 415 Players will perform a recital of 
baroque chamber music on copies of 
historical instruments Thursday evening, 
February 16, at 8:30 PM. The group con
sists of Larry Kiefer, baroque oboe and 
recorder, Patricia Griffin, mezzo-soprano, 
Thomas Frankenberg, viola da gamba, 
oind Richard Stern, harpsichord, most of 
whom are alumni or faculty of CMU. 
The recital, featuring works of Bach and 
Telemann, will be at the Frick Audit
orium in Oakland, admission free.
Andre Previn will conduct Pittsburgh Sym
phony Orchestra performances of Sir Will
iam Waltons biblical cantata, Belshazzars 
Feast, and a Mozart Concerto for Two 
Pianos and Orchestra in Heinz Hall con
certs on Friday, February 10 at 8:30 PM, 
Saturday, February 11 at 8 PM and Sunday 
afternoon, February 12 at 2:30 PM. This 
will be the Symphonys first performance 
in 10 years of Waltons choral drama and 
the concerts serve to marie the 75th anni
versary of the composers birth.
Attendance at Pittsburgh Symphony 
Concerts is by season subscription only. 
However, some tickets are occasionally 
turned back to die Heinz Hall box office 
for resale. Information may be obtained 
by phoning 281-5000.
Under the auspices of the City of Pitts
burgh, a Pittsburgh Symphony concert in 
Heinz Hall will be presented free of admis
sion to city residents at 8 PM on Wednes
day, February 8. Donald Johanos, Asso
ciate Conductor of the Symphony, will 
conduct.
This and other free city concerts are 
sponsored throughout the year by means 
of a grant from the Citys Performing Arts 
Program. Each year, the program series 
consists of four concerts, the last of which 
is presented in early summer in Schenley 
Park.
Tickets to the February 8 concert can 
be obtained by use of mail order coupons 
which will be appearing in the Pittsburgh 
Press and Post-Gazette.
Carnegie-Mellon Universitys music depart
ment will hold a faculty recital on Sunday, 
February 12 at 8 PM in Alumni Concert 
Hall in the CMU College of Fine Arts. The 
recital is free and open to the public.
CINEMA
AB will be screening Judgement at Nurem
berg on Thursday, February 9 at 6 and 9 
PM. The film deals with the Nuremberg 
trials that followed WWII. It stars Spen
cer Tracey, Maximillian Schell, Marlene 
Dietrich and Judy Garland. All films are 
shown in Doherty Hall. Admission is .75 
with an ID.
AB- will be presenting Fun with Dick and 
Jane on Friday, February 10 at 6, 8,
10 and 12 PM. The film stars Jane Fonda 
and George Segal. All films are shown in 
Doherty Hall. Admission is one dollar 
with an ID.
SDC will be presenting Sugarland Express 
on Saturday, February 11 at 6, 8:30, 
and 11 PM. All films are shown in Dohertv Hall. Admission is free.
Carnegie Institute presents a series of 
nature films every Saturday at 1:00 PM
in the Carnegie Lecture Hall. For more 
information call 622-3283.
THEATRE
Carnegie-Mellon University will present 
Rogers and Hammerstein's musical Carou
sel on February 10th. The production will 
be held in the Kresge Theatre, Fine Arts 
Building at 8:20 P.M. For ticket informa
tion, call the Box Office at 578-2407, Mon
days through Fridays, from 10 A.M. to 5 
P.M.
Camelot Production will open the Lemer 
and Loewe musical Camelot on Friday, 
January 20 at the Plaza Theatre, Bloom
field.
Performances will be held at 8:30 PM 
Fridays and Saturdays and 7:30 PM Sun
days, January 20 through February 12 at 
the Plaza Theatre, 4765 Liberty Avenue 
(next to West Penn Hospital). Ticket infomation and reservations may be obtained 
by calling Camelot Productions at 683- 
7770.
Pittsburgh Public Theater will present Slow 
Dance on the Killing Ground by William 
Hanley performed in repertory with Medal 
of Honor Rag by Tom Cole, and directed 
by Terry Schreiber, at the Allegheny 
Theater on the Northside from February 1 
through March 5. Ticket information is 
available by calling 323-1900.
Israeli artist Joshua Neustein will have 
his paintings on display February 1 
through 17 at Carnegie-Mellon University.
The Velar Gallery is located in the 
lobby of CMIF s Graduate School of 
Industrial Administration. The gallery is 
open Monday through Friday from 9 AM 
to 5 PM. The Neustein exhibit is free 
and open to the public.
WRCT
WRCT will start its first morning show for 
this year with Steve and Alex from 6:30 to 
9:30, Monday thru Friday. This innovative 
program features soft, upbeat music, traffic 
reports, weather, local news and class can
cellations.
MISC.
ART
The Hewlett Gallery in the College of 
Fine Arts Building will display the works 
of Howard Womer. Mr. Womer is a fac
ulty member of the design department.
The show will run from January 23 to 
February 10. Hours are Monday through 
Friday, 11:00 to 4:00 PM.
Janet Gillespie and Present Company 
will be featured with the Lucy Reynolds 
Contemporary Dance Company on Friday, 
February 17 at 8:00 PM in Trees Hall of 
the University of Pittsburgh, Alliquippa 
and Darraugh Streets. The program is the 
sixth in a monthly series of studio con
certs presented by the Pitt Dance Ensem
ble.
For further information concerning the 
concert, contact Margaret Skrinar; Pitt 
Physical Education Department, 624- 
4396.
SDC will sponsor a semi-formal Valentine's 
Day dance in the Skibo Ballroom featuring 
Silver Fox on Friday, February 10. The 
band will play from 9 P.M. to 12 midnight 
Refreshments will be served and there will 
be free roses for everyone. Admission is 50 
cents at the door.
Is
ACTIVITIES BOARD MOVIE TICKET POLICY
IT HAS COME TO OUR ATTENTION THAT MANY STUDENTS ARE UNAWARE OF THE RULES THAT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
FOLLOWS IN THE DISTRIBUTION OF MOVIE TICKETS. THEREFORE. WE WOULD APPRECIATE THAT EVERY STUDENT TAKE THE 
TIME TO READ THE RULES BELOW:
1. TICKET PRICES FOR CMU STUDENTS WILL BE 75C ON THURSDAY NIGHTS, AND $1 ON FRIDAY NIGHTS. IDEN
TIFICATION IS MANDATORY.
2. STUDENTS MAY PURCHASE ONLY TWO TICKETS PER ID. STUDENTS MAY BRING OTHER STUDENT'S IDs WHEN 
PURCHASING TICKETS.
3. TICKETS WILL GO ON SALE ONE-HALF HOUR BEFORE THE FIRST SHOW OF THE EVENING. DURING THIS FIRST
HALF HOUR. ONLY FIRST SHOW TICKETS WILL BE ON SALE. AFTER THE FIRST SHOW BEGINS. TICKETS FOR ANY
OTHER SHOW MAY BE PURCHASED. THIS IS A NEW POLICY; PLEASE REMEMBER IT.
4. NO SMOKING IS ALLOWED IN DH2210. THIS RULE WILL BE ENFORCED BY SECURITY.
5. STUDENTS COUNTERFEITING TICKETS WILL BE REFUSED ENTRANCE TO THE THEATRE. THIS RULE WILL BE EN
FORCED BY SECURITY.
6. THERE WILL BE NO EXCHANGING OR REFUNDING OF TICKETS.
THESE RULES ARE EFFECTIVE IMMEDIATELY. OUR ADHERENCE TO THESE RULES HAS BEEN EXTREMELY LENIENT, BECAUSE Wi 
NEVER PUBLISHED THE POLICY HERE BEFORE THIS TIME. HOWEVER. WE WILL UPHOLD THEM FROM THIS POINT ON.
THE SMOKING RULE IS IN EFFECT DUE TO A STATE LAW. OUR REFUSALS TO ADMIT PEOPLE AFTER WE ARE SOLD OUT IS 
RELATED TO THIS LAW. DH2210 CAN LEGALLY HOUSE ONLY 256 PEOPLE ACCORDING TO HEALTH AND SAFETY 
REGULATIONS. THIS CONDITION MEANS THAT WE SERVE A LIMITED PUBLIC. WE ARE AWARE OF THESE LIMITATIONS, BUT 
CAN DO NOTHING ABOUT THEM. IF THE STUDENTS WANT A NEW THEATRE THAT WILL SERVE THEM BETTER. THEY MUST 
MAKE THEIR WISHES KNOWN. UNTIL THEN PLEASE COOPERATE WITH US.
ACTIVITIES BOARD FILM COMMITTEE
FUNDED BY STUDENT ACTIVITIES
: i ; ; r ; : : : 2

---------------------------------------------------

valentines nance
Friday Night

---------------------------------------------------

February 7, 1978TARTAN-page 27
Key stats of CMU success
1977-78 CARNEGIE-MELLON 11-GAME STATISTICS (8-3, 5-0)
NAMEGFG%FT%REBS/AVGA.
Harvey11.528.73444/4.068
Harper11.496.58897/8.817
Hufnagel10.549.88481/8.13
Belechak10.487.88828/2.824
Chambers10.369.59259/5.927
"6 DeFillippo8.500.80016/2.025
Hofmeister9.480.54520/2.21
Underhill5.50.0014/2.80
Hobart8.35.006/0.72
Ward5.333.1665/1.22
James2.50.006/3.01
Ellis2.50.001/0.50
Stefanick2.33.002/1.00
3 TOTALS
CMU11.486.664383/34.8101
OPP11.427.666411/37.396
PTS.
240
173
123
84
70
60
30
12
10
5
4
2
2
815
722
AVG.
21.8
15.7
12.3
8.4
7.0
7.5 
3.3 
.2.4 
1.2
1.0 
2.0 
1.0 
1.0
74.0
65.6
CHESS CORNER 
by Joseph Bartnicki
White to play and mate in five moves.
9JBUI g- f
w.If^ U ()
3JBUI 9N- g
ip jva f
ai-d*)i e
H3 8*019)1-8 I 
M3 8N- I 
:HHMSNV
KBAJI mb I IfMIMtM Sim m HoHmm, m mm M WMtm3 Mtm
RESULTSTOP SCORER
CMU61Grove City50Harvey 16
CMU91LaRoche65Harvey 34
CMU71Wooster67Harvey 25
CMU66Westminster81Harvey 20
CMU79Bloomsburg80Harper 32
CMU48Widener64Belechak 14
CMU86Wash-Jeff68Harvey 20
CMU80Allegheny67Harvey 24
CMU89J ohn Carroll67Harvey 20
CMU91Thiel66Harvey 32
CMU58Hiram55Harvey 23
TOP REBOUNDER
Hufnagel 10 
Harper 14 
Hufnagel 9 
Harper 7 
Harper 13 
Hufnagel 4 
Hufnagel 12 
Harvey 9, Hufnagel 9, 
Harper 9 
Hufnagel 13 
Chambers 13 
Harper 10
Happy twenty fourth birthday to CMU Equipment Manager Mike Kerin
'
Harvey
CMU
Pts.
19
Reb
3Harvey
CMU
Pts.
16
Reb.
2Harper108Harper186Hufnagel129Hufnagel52Chambers96Belechak188Belechak-135Chambers1014Hofmeister42DeFilippo64DeFilippo21Hofmeister03Underchill00Ward00Hobart00733969
Allegheny
Pts.
33
Reb.
Haus
Thompson
Bethany
Pts.
6
17
Reb.
1
2
Wheeler81Zsigray64C.Jones21Dulkowski129D.Jones1013Hayes46Hopkins103Gongola74Lindberg2416Winovich44Contardi13Natili50Turner129Fenton0067466130
No. Nothing is ever almost legal. Especially 
marijuana. Last year alone 420,000 people were 
arrested for marijuana offenses. Of those,90% were for simple possession.
But now a growing number of Americans are thinking seriously about changing the present marijuana laws. In fact, some laws have already been changed. The state of Oregon has successfully de-criminalized the personal use of marijuana. The 
American Bar Association, The National Council of Churches, Consumers Union and The National Education Association have urged other states to 
do the same. An inevitable chain of events has 
begun. Become partofthatchange. Helpushelpycu
noqgrjL
NAHONAt ORC.ANI/A I ION I i HI RI (ORM Ol MARI H' ANA  AWS23t7MSTIt.N* WASMItftTO 0C 700 3?
Fl I encloe $ 1 S 00 membership fee < Student* and Military 11

II
f 1 I'm not a joiner but ! would Mill like to help with a iontnbution
Send along the following NOR Ml item* All the proceed* from th#ir ale go toward furthering the fight
mm __N 1 *CM;M  Wot 11 00
gHtol . T SHI* 1'S  f* _
, Sf AMPS  SI 00 Sb 
-S A4___J _ XI
NOMMK - ~ T SHIRTS * 14 s*h
___s___S___i ___xi___OOi Of At Hi* A'HA1 1 Af PINS  1 00** h
A PH. PtN># SI h
N. *<  ...........
* ....  ....... . .
> IT* ............. v, fn g tT
1
I
I
I
I
I
I
IIIIIII
I
II
I
I
I

---------------------------------------------------

CALL 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A
621-7388
MIXOLOGY COURSE
 Iron City
 Schlitz
 Bud
 Koehler
 Strohs
 Genesee
 Rolling Rock
 Hop 'n Gator
 Schlitz Malt
 Ballantine Ale
 Rheingold
 Miller Light
 Michelob
 Pabst
 Miller
 Colt 45
 Genesee Cream Ale
 Busch
 Duke
 Schmidts
 Champale
RESIDENCE LIFE AND THE R. A. PROGRAM PRESENTS *** 
DISCOUNT TICKETS
***** February 22, 1978 at 8:00 p.m. Heinz Hall $5.00 
PAUL TAYLOR DANCE COMPANY - Family Circle 
reservation deadline February 14
***** March 1, 1978 at 7:30 p.m. Civic Arena $3.00
PENGUINS vs. MONTREAL - North Terrace 
reservation deadline February 20
***** April 10, 1978 at 8:00 p.m. Heinz Hall $5.00
MUMMENSCHANZ - Swiss Mime-Mask Theatre 
reservation deadline February 21
For info, or reservations call 578-2080 or 578-4000
To Teoch You Everything You Wont to Know 
About Bartending
You 'll Be a Bartender in Demand 
ora Toastworthy Host
*EARN EXTRA MONEY 
HEARN A SKILL*
FEE - $25 FOR THREE TWOHOUR SESSIONS.
COURSE MAY BE REPEATED 
AT ANY TIME AT NO EXTRA 
CHARGE.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 
PHONE 661-0909 
MONDAYS - 
6:30 P.M. to 
8:30 P.M.
Greg Chambers
featuring 22 Varieties of Steak Subs 
SERVING BEER SUNDAY 1 PM-2 PM
Quarts  Mugs  Pitchers
One different 16-oz. 6 pk. featured each week
SCHLITZ SCHMIDTS PABST
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO 
ADVERTISE OUR LOW BEER PRICES
itDme- FRESH CUT FRENCH FRIES Spec y ems. P,ZZA SERVED 'TIL 3 AM
Hot DogsChoice of 12 Different Condiments
HOT DOG SHOPS, INC.
3901 FORBES AVE. (OAKLAND) 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213
I Are we glad you're here! |
35 Varieties of Sandwiches
Veteran fans of CMU Basketball will remember 
a time when Greg Chambers' acrobatic leaps, ^ 
uncanny defensive skill, and creative shot selec
tion seemed oddly out of place.
Then last season, one year after the arrival of 
Coach Dave Maloney, the former Schenley High 
player returned to the team after a self-imposed 
one year hiatus. Many of those same veteran fans 
who watched Chambers two years before 
checked anxiously to see if Maloney could chan
nel Chambers' unique talents.
Chambers did fit, so well, in fact, that he 
added that extra spark Of brilliance which helped 
carry CMU to the NCAA Playoffs.
This year Chambers is playing stronger than 
ever before at CMU. Unfortunately, his perform
ing maturity and talent will be lost to the school 
next year. But for those who have watched him 
even once, his contribution has been a memora
ble one.iPhoto essay prepared by Ramanan

---------------------------------------------------

February 7, 1978-TARTAN-page 29
Tartan Swimmers win again
by John Rossi
&omen hoopers suffer 
through hardest week 
lose three straight
by Perry Colosimo
Coach Janice Kepples Tartans of CMU 
iist completed a busy and tough week of 
oasketball. They faced Duquesne on Sat. 
Jan. 28, Robert Morris on the following 
Wednesday, and Geneva this past Saturday. 
Unfortunately, the Tartans lost all three 
games, bowing to Duquesne 63-43, Robert 
Morris 63-49, and Geneva 73-31.
The closest of-these games, and one in 
which the Tartans demonstrated their abiUty to come back from a deficit, was the 
*ame Wednesday with Robert Morris Col
lege. The Tartans got out to an early lead
* in the first half of the game by once again 
dominating both the offensive and defen> sive boards, Brandy Jackson and Barb 
Owens ripped down the majority of the 
Tartans 28 rebounds in the half. Ingrid 
Goedicke and Barb Owens both had 8 
points at the half which ended with CMU 
fc>n top, 25-19.
However, Coach Maggie McCarthy and 
her RMC squad came out firing in the third 
period and pulled to within two points be
fore the Tartans signalled for a time-out. 
Play resumed and roughly 30 seconds later 
kMC took the lead for good, 33-29. From 
hen on, RMC pulled further away and 
CMU was at the mercy of the deadly accu
rate shooting of guards Sandy Matich, who 
finished with a game high 17 points, and 
Jane McCanty.
During most of the fourth period the 
Tartans struggled to cut the lead built up 
by RMC. But their efforts were futile; 
every time the Tartans scored RMC retali
ated with a bucket and thus CMU had dif
ficulty slicing the margin in score.
 With two minutes left in the contest the 
Tartans put on a scoring spurt, finishing 
strong with 3 consecutive unanswered bas
kets to pull within 14 points at the buzzer. 
CMU will host Seton Hill on Wednesday 
and Carlow College on Saturday. Both of 
these games will precede mens varsity
games.
CMU
 pts.
Davina Davies 3
Lauia Cooper 6
Barb Owens 15
Dawn Drake 0
Mary Patrick 2
Gale Gammerdinger 0
Ingrid Goedicke 10
Tammy Fair * 0
|| Carolyn Baxter 0
Terry Preskar 13
Brandi Jackson 0
Robert Morris
pts.
Sandy Bannon 10
Monica Levandosky 60 Lorrianne Jacko 10
Betty Rostcheck 1
Jane McCanty 12
Sandy Matich 17
Michelle Wilvert 6
Patty Gillespie 1
Birazelle Green 0
On February 4, the CMU Swimming 
Team traveled to Bethany College to swim 
against the Bisons. The Tartans won, 
in a runaway.
The 400 yd. medley relay foursome of 
Dave Watterson, Brian Hobbs, Doug 
McPherson and Pete Dickey held off a 
Bison challenge for a quick 7-0 lead. Fol
lowing that, John Rossi and Neal Kushner 
finished first and second, respectively, in 
the 1000 yd. freestyle. Then in one of the 
more closely contested events of the day, 
the 200 yd. freestyle, Joachim Neteler fi
nished second and Tom Barr was third. 
Continuing , Jeff Bland won the 50 yd. 
freestyle, followed by Brian Hobbs, who 
was second. Jim Maysek, swimming the 
400 yd. Individual medley instead of the
For the distancemen, the indoor season 
means the continuation of more hard, 
lonely miles through the city streets. It 
means more cold mornings, more frost 
clinging to your face, more effort to run. 
The winter is cruel to the runner.
For the sprinters and hurdlers, jumpers 
and maybe weightmen, the indoor season 
is the time for lacing the old, worn-out pair 
of adidas flats, and stepping outside for 
some unaccustomed running.
The indoor season for the CamegieMellon tracksters began with a very competative meet recently. So hungry for compe
tition, most of the team walked tor the 
meet. It was held at the Fitzgerald Field 
House at the University of Pittsburgh.
As usual, the Field House was hot and 
humid. The laps seemed endless in the dis
tance races. The throat dries up and begins
regular 200 yd. event, set a new school re
cord of 4:37.84.
CMLPs divers, Bob Frye and Tony Car
rington, were unopposed in both required 
and optional diving. Nevertheless, Frye es
tablished a new school record in the re
quired set. Carrington also dove well.
Harry Coleman then set his second 
school record in as many meets, this on a 
54.47 clocking in the 100 yd. butterfly. 
Doug McPherson finished second. In the 
next event Pete Dickey won the 100 yd. 
freestyle and Jeff Bland took third. Swim
ming in the 200 yd. backstroke, Joe Dic
key finished first and Dave Watterson outsprinted Bethanys lone entry to finish se
cond. In the final three Jim Matysek won 
the 500 yd. freestyle, and Doug McPherson 
turned in his best time this year to take
to burn much too quickly. Enthused by 
the energetic crowd, the competition was 
also hot and burning.
Junior mid-distanceman Larry Gordon 
ooted for the 880,..the distance he has been 
working hard at. He emerged from the 
trials with a quick time of 1:59.2 for 
fourth in his heat and earned a start in the 
final. Splitting in 55.2 the next day, he 
finished with a fine time of 1:58.7 to gain 
fourth place overall. National caliber miler 
Tim Flynn of East Tennesee and Ireland 
won in 1:56.1.
Sophmore Barry Vukoder toed the start 
for the 1000 yard trials. Going out hard, he 
split 59.5, 2:04.3, and finished in 2:24.0 
for sixth place in his heat. The final was 
won by Kip Korir of ACC and Kenya in 
2:13.2.
Freshman Jot Goldcamp premiered his 
Collegian track career with his first ever 
race over college 50 yard high hurdles.
third place. Jamie Uber and Brian Hobbs 
swam the 200 yd. breaststroke in exhibi
tion and turned in good times, and the 400 
yd. freestyle relay quartet of Harry Cole
man, Tom Gerlowske, Jim Matysek and 
John Rossi finished first, closely followed 
by the CMU teams of Tom Barr, Patti Mil
ler, Jeff Bland and Pete Dickey and Neal 
Kushner, Joe Dickey, Joachem Neteler and 
Dave Watterson.
The final score was lopsided even 
though Coach Donna Pecman swam many 
of her swimmers in off-events. The Tartans 
are now 6-2 (4-0 in the PAC), and will 
spend this week preparing for their last 
home meet of the season, against a much 
improved Case-Western Reserve team on 
February 11. The meet should be very clos
ely contested and exciting to watch.
Placed in the fastest of heats, he performed 
well in timing 6.80 for fourth.
Another freshman, Dario Donatelli, per
formed par excellence in the two-mile. 
Splitting the mile in a fast 4:43, he kicked 
hard and finished in 9:36.5 and fifth in his 
heat. Junior Steve Faloon, also in the twomile, went out hard and finished firing 
with a 10:07.0.
Freshman Steve Crelli ran the first 
three-mile of his life. Running a planned 
even pace, he split the miles in 4:52,9:58, 
and finished in 15:06.0 for ninth place in 
the final.
The performance of the team was very 
good. The heavy snow and ice in the East 
make this time of the year the most dif
ficult period for training. The heavy load 
of school work doesnt ease the burden 
either. As the months progress, and the 
meets continue, these runners can expect 
some excellent times.
Still Room on the Ground Floor for__
Computer Careers at Amdahl
Computer professionals are aware that 
todays most advanced large-system 
technology was developed by a company 
that, not too long ago. was virtually 
unknown. It was during late 1975 
when Amdahl delivered its first multimillion-dollar 470V/t> system follow
ing a 5-year. $50.000,000 effortthat 
the company first attracted widespread industry attention. Now. Amdahl 
is the most talked about company in 
the industry: a com pact group of highly 
talented high technologists producing 
the worlds highest performing general 
purpose computers, the V/5. Vtf and 
V, 7. Over a quarter billion dollars 
worth of Amdahl systems is now 
working worldwide in every industry sector using large-scale computers.
The original design team is still virtually intact and working on future 
systems. Although we are growing at
an extremely rapid pace, we are com
mitted to retaining the same creative 
environment that yielded the V 5.
Y and V 7. We are still small by com
puter industry comparisons. We are 
still friendly. We still enjoy attacking 
tasks because we think its fun. And 
we still reward personal efforts with 
|K*rsonal recognition.
We think Amdahl is a great place 
to work. Theres still room on the 
ground fl<x)r for you if you are about 
to receive a BS or advanced degree 
in electrical engineering or computer 
sciences, and consider yourself a cut 
above your classmates in com|x*tenee. 
enthusiasm and potential.
Amdahl Corporation, 1250 Hast Arques Avenue. Sunnyvale. California 
9408fi. Wre are an equal opportunity 
employer.
We are com ing to cam/ms to fill 
ioSe it ions in hard mire, fi rmtea re am/ hard ii'a rc-related saff
ica re. We a re sfxrificallu 
interrien'ingfor logic an<l finn
ica re designers and
hard tea re-related, soft tea re 
diagnostic engineers, design 
automation programmers, and 
control programmersfor our 
m in i-Itaseli console.
0N-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS:Tuesday, February 21
amdahl
CMU Trackmen compete in Pitt Invitational
by Cre

---------------------------------------------------

page 30TARTANFebruary 7, 1978
leers can't clear IUP
by Ed Sullivan
As any athlete knows, proper warm-ups 
can be as important to performance as 
skill. In the case of the Tartan hockey team 
proper warm-ups could include a practice 
game before the real thing. Then, maybe, 
they could start moving in the first period 
instead of waiting for the third.
During the first two periods of last Sat
urdays game against Indiana (Pa.) ,the Tar
tans seemed to play in a daze. The tempo 
of the game even seemed slow and listless. 
After the first period, CMU was down 4-0 
and that margin stretched to 7-0 at the end 
of the second.
The biggest problem the Tartans had 
was inability to clear the puck out of their 
own zone. Repeatedly, Indiana was able to 
keep the puck down around the CMU goal 
and take many more shots than should 
have been possible.
The first Indiana goal, at 5:24 of the 
first period, was a blue line shot that sim
ply beat the CMU goalie, Doug Johnson. 
The second goal, at 6:54 resulted from in
ability, to clear the puck as North of Indi
ana regained control of the puck, carried it
behind the net and laid it in front of the 
goal for a perfect point blank shot by 
Petro, who scored 5 points in the contest 
(3 goals,2 assists). The third and fourth 
Ind. Univ. of Pa. goals, separated by only 
47seconds (11 46 and 12:33), resulted 
from this same malady. Indianas-second 
period goals came on a rebound shot 
(5:04), a 2 on 1 break(10:29) and a right 
wing slapshot (13:18).
The third period began with little hope 
for anything but a repeat of the first two in 
which there wasnt even enough hitting to 
cause more than four minutes in penalties. 
However, the turnabout was very dramatic. 
Indiana got another goal at 1:50 of the per
iod as the Tartans were down a man due to 
a 2 minute minor for interference. The 
slow moving shot was hidden from Johns
ton until it was too late and the puck had 
already crossed the line.
A few penalties resulted in a one man 
advantage for the Tartans as Indiana had 
two in tl|e penalty box and CMU had one. 
Grimm of CMU fired the puck by Indiana 
goalie Collins at 3:28 to break the ice for
COLLEGE JUNIORSCOLLEGE SENIORS
NUCLEAR PROPULSION
The leading operator of Nuclear Reactors is currently seeking college juniors and 
seniors to serve as NUCLEAR PROPULSION OFFICERS both on Nuclear Surface vessel and 
Nuclear Submarines upon graduation. Interested candidates should be in pursuit of a 
Baccalaureate Degree with an engineering, pure science, or math major and have 
demonstrated ability in math and physics courses. A minimum of one year of college 
physics and math through integral calculus with a "B  average or better in technical 
courses is required. Successful candidates will be paid up to $7,800 during their senior 
year of college and upon graduaton and commissioning receive a year of graduate level 
Nuclear training. Upon completion of this training you will be challenged by the entire 
spectrum of management and engineering responsibility as a functioning Nuclear 
Engineer. Select applicants interested in teaching may be eligible for four year in
structor positions at Nuclear Propulsion School in Orlando, Florida. Subjects taught may 
include mathematics, physics, electrical engineering, heat transfer and fluid flow 
materials, chemistry, radiological controls and reactor plant engineering. A complete 
benefit package, personal growth and development and a starting salary of $16,000, in
cluding bonus, for the first year accompany these positions. Salary after four years will 
approach $26,000.
If yau have an interest in exploring any of the above programs, please call or write: 
LT. Jock REEVES, Federal Building. 1000 Liberty Ave., Suite 711, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15222. 
PHONE: TOLL FREE (PA) 800-242-3737 or (WV, OH & MD) 800-245-1771/2.
CAMPUS VISIT DATE 13-14-15-16 MARCH 78 
SIGN UP FOR INTERVIEWS IN PLACEMENT OFFICE
HEARTS & FLOWERS
Send Your Valentine
The FTD LoveBundle Bouquet.
A spray of 
sparkling hearts in 
a colorful bouquet 
Your FTD Florist 
can send one 
almost anywhere 
by wire, the 
FTD way. Order early.
(Most FTD Florists accept major 
credit cards.
Usually available for less than
$15- 
Those FTD Florists 
Really Get Around.
*As an independent businessman, each FTD Member Florist sets his own prices.
>1978 Florists' Transworld Delivery
CMU Hockey faced a rough weeklosing to Indiana this Saturday.
CMU, with assists to Jack Arturo and Bill 
Miller. After a few sets of coincidental 
minors, which were in abundance all after
noon, Tartan captain Artuno planted a 
shot by Collins on a breakaway at 8:18, 
with assists to Grimm and De Riso. This 
goal seemed to liven the team up and they 
began to hit with purpose.
At 12:19, the Tartans were hit with an 
interference penalty and were forced to 
play shorthanded. Defenseman Miller, who
repeatedly enlivened the contest with vic
ious checks, fired a wicked slap shot which 
was just stopped by Collins. However, the 
rebound came to Arturo who fired a shot 
for his second goal and third point of the 
night at 13:18. Miller and Arturo kept the 
Tartans in the game many times with their 
aggressive play. Indiana manged one more 
goal with only 38 seconds left in the game 
to leave the final tally at 9-3.
rVALENTINE'S DAY SPECIALS!!
Large Spider Plants -$11.50 
Super Boston Ferns - $ 14.00
Stop in and see my 
selection of flowers, 
plants and gifts.
BRUCE'S
Distinctive Flowers & Gifts 
Centre at Neville/Oakland 
Monday thru Saturday 10 to 5 
Call: 687-4200
PUCCINI
SPECIAL 
PACKAGE
Come to PUCCINIS and ask for the SPECIAL PACKAGE.
Youll redeve a shampoo, cut and blow-dry style 
PLUS a bottle of shampoo and a styling bmrh. 
The merchandise alone is worth $8, but I t ctiv i 
is offering this entire package for just $15.
CALL UK STUP UM FUR AN APPUlNTMtNT 
OFFER GOOD THRU FEBRUARY 15
PUCCINI113 l < i ji it 1. filini
621-2087

---------------------------------------------------

February 7, 1978-TAR TAN-page 31
BE THE HRST ON YOUR BLOCK TO INTERVEW WITH DATA GENERAL
Itd be a crime if you didnt. Because Data General is the third largest 
computer company in the world in computer shipments.
After only nine years, weve installed over 44,500 systems - more 
than Sperry-Univac, NCR, Control Data, and Raytheon combined. Last 
year alone, we announced a new product every 15 working days. And 
shipped a new system every 16 minutes last time we checked. We even 
pump more revenues back into R&D than any other computer company.
Thats the kind of dynamic growth that spells opportunity for cre
ative people with degrees in EE, ME, CS or other technical disciplines. 
And we can prove it.
Ask us to tell you about the engineer who designed a computer at 
night in his kitchen. And now heads up our North Carolina engineering 
research group. Or about the 21- 
year old college grad who sold 
$1 million plus his first year out.
On commission!
Talk with Data General.
We can help keep you straight.
y o Data General
15 Turnpike Road, Westboro, Massachusetts 01581. (617) 366-8911.
ON CAMPUS IMTERV1EWS:
COLLEGE PLACEMENT OFFICE
FEBRUARY 20
Pittsburgh skis its way 
into Swiss student's heart
by Jay Devine
Im sitting at my desk now, very home
sick. For mounted on the wall opposite 
me, dotted with marker pins for places 
visited, is a map of the fantasy-land that 
for the last three years had been my home.
\ Its a place easily described, since the mere 
mention of the name conjures up many a
familiar image. Quickly now think 
Switzerland. What comes to mind? 
Chocolate? Yes, among the worlds best. 
Cheese, watches, chalets, and numbered 
bank accounts? Right again. Breathtaking 
mountain panoramas? As common as pot
holes in Pittsburgh. And skiing? Right. Oh,
I so right.
Zermatt, Andermatt, St. Moritzbright 
sun, blue skies, and mile upon glorious mile 
of packed, treeless slopes. The exhilara
tion of alpine skiing where the name was 
invented must be felt to be either under
stood or believed. Yet my introduction to 
European skiingor skiing anywhere, for 
that matterwas in the Alps valleys 
, rather than on its downhill runs. Long, 
rolling stretches of peaceful pine woods, 
giving way here and there to a quick down
hill or a frozen, snow-covered lake, and all 
well groomed with arrow-straight parallel 
tracksthe perfect setting for Nordic, or 
cross-country, skiing. What a shame that 
all that would have to end as I headed back 
to the States and graduate school in 
, Pittsburgh. Yes, it had been nice, but the 
time had come to move on.
Or so I thought. What a delight to dis
cover that I could answer those postcards 
from Verbier, Davos, and St. Moritz with 
the tongue-in-cheek report: Todays ski 
conditions in Squirrel Hill: Excellent! 
Nor am. I alone in my discovery. In three 
weeks of daily trekking to and from cams pus via the Schenley Park golf course, Ive 
seen enough fellow-skiers to convince me 
that Nordic skiing here in the Northeast is 
alive, well, and slowly emerging from the 
shadow of the downhillers.
Actually, Nordic skiing has been here 
for quite awhile. As the Pittsburgher 
reported in November of last year, the 
sport was popular during the 1920s in the 
Midwestern farmlands, where large Scandanavian populations had settled (and 
where there was no competition with near
by mountain slopes). Initially submerged 
by the commercial development of Amer
ican alpine skiing, cross-country resurfaced 
again in the early 70s as the costs of 
downhill, equipment and outings steadily 
rose. A good pair of Nordic skis, complete 
with bindings, boots and poles, costs about 
as much together as a pair of inexpensive 
downhill skis by themselves. And unlike 
the long drive, longer lift lines, and short 
runs awaiting downhillers in these parts, 
excellent cross-country conditions are as 
far away as the nearest park, golf course, or 
timber trail with a decent 3-5 inch base. 
In fact, Nordic enthusiasts seem to take 
smug satisfaction in the minimal expense 
and maximum accessibility of their wmter 
sport. As one Massachusetts skier puu it, 
We have all grown so accustomed to 
paying for our play that it becomes some
thing of a triumph to discover a sport, 
and a place'to enjoy it, where there are no 
ticket-takers. Ski touring. . . constitutes 
one of the last refuges for the believer in 
free enterprise. And if we can believe 
recent estimates, upwards of two million 
Americans are now Believers.
Since it requires greater exertion, the 
emphasis with Nordic equipment is on 
mobility and lightness of weight. Skis are 
long and thin, and made of either fiberglass 
or wood, while poles, which reach to about 
shoulder height, come in bamboo, fiber
glass, or aluminum. And for downhillers
whove clomped along in their cumbersome 
footgear, cross-country boots are a joyous 
relief. Indeed, mine may well be the most 
comfortable shoes I own, and are sur
prisingly warm when worn with heavy 
woolen socks. Their most distinctive fea
ture, however, is the square-edged tip that 
fits snugly into each skis binding. And 
until youre ready to invest in your own 
equipment, most ski shops will rent these 
basics at very reasonable rates. _
Beyond these, most people probably 
have the other necessities tucked away in 
their closet or bureau drawer. The key is to 
dress in layers that can be peeled off or 
added to as needed. A warm wool sweater 
over a cotton turtleneck will usually do 
nicely, with a nylon parka for particularly 
windy days. For pants Ive worn corduroy 
Levis, woolen knickers, even sweatpants 
as long as theyre warm and loose-fitting. 
Top it all off with some warmly-lined 
gloves and a wollen hat for your head and 
ears, and youre all set for a comfortable 
day in the snow.
The Pittsburgh Parks Department has 
lent a helping hand by grooming some ex
cellent trails in Schenley Park, Frick Park, 
and the North Hills. If local conditions 
should sour, head for the Laurel Mountains 
east of Ligonier, just off Route 30. Or you 
might drop in on the CMU Explorers Club 
(Thursday evenings, 7:30, in Skibo) to 
check out where they might be heading. 
This would give you the added advantage 
(advisable for beginners) of being with 
some experienced skiers.
Switzerland to Pittsburgh, fondue to Big 
Macs, the towering Matterhorn to the 
smokestacks of J & Lquite a change, no 
matter how you slice it. But theres been 
the Laurel Mountains in the Fall, ballet at 
Heinz Hall, ice cream at Baskin Robbins, 
and all that beautifull white stuff outside. 
You know, maybe Pittsburgh really is 
some place special.

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
1 It t.
Uk : J
mm
I ** ^
fcigS? * 9
^3 n * - J ^ ^
4MB  *
* Jfr* * 1H| Ik
W\
Wm T m* ill mJBrm Ilf V:
I
IIIpI ? |i8fc *Br.1
Harvey was the hero this week, shown here hitting for two after stealing the ball from a Bethany 
player.This week in I.M. Sports
CMU takes three steps 
toward 2nd PAC Title
by Frank Pugliano
This weei in I.M. sports Delta Upsflon 
sealed the finals of the chess competition 
while the Foxcatchers won the finals in 
the waterpolo league.
Raquetball finals will be played this 
week. The bridge commissioner, Tim 
Lankin of TX, needs teams and has 
extended the registration date of entry to 
February 7. Handball also is soliciting a 
few more teams and has extended its dead
line to February 7, also. The commissioner 
of I.M. Handball is Steve Vlanick of ZBT. 
131. wrestling entry is still open, if you 
think you want to compete, see Mr. Birdy 
in the l.M. office or Mark Poland of Kappa 
Sigma. Registration forms are due today, 
Tuesday, February 7, for table tennis 
(singles and doubles). February 7 is also 
the closing date of registration for rifle 
shooting and call pool.
All l.M. participants are reminded to 
check the officiating schedules where 
appropriate.
Today in Intramural Sports:
There will be an Intramural Sports 
meeting today, Tuesday February 7, at 
4:30 in the Intramural office.
The Nose Knows: 
l.M. Basketball
The Celtics are the only remaining un
beaten l.M. Major League basketball 
team. The Celtics are emerging from the 
pack as the team to beat in the Major 
league. A major factor in the teams un
defeated state is Larry DiCicco, who last 
year was the co-^aptain of CMLPs PAC 
Championship team. Controlling the 
boards for the Celtics is Roy Parker. The 
shooting and ball-handling of Ken Gerzenvi and Steve Gurskey combine with 
the talents of DiCicco id Parker to make 
the Celtics very tougjh, indeed. In reserve
the Celtics have Bill Kapner, Gerald Ash, 
Leroy Harris, and Dan Bergman. This 
week they all combined to defeat Pika at 
94-41 and easily handle the Coaches, 
67-47. They also won by a forfeit over 
the All-Stars and beat Beta, 60-50. The 
Celtics are proving that they are truly the 
team to beat.
One level down, in the intermediate 
league, competition is a mixed bag of ser
ious teams and jaggroups. Mostly par
ticipants in this league are out for a good 
time and healthy physical excercise. 
Three teams are emerging as the "class 
of the league: Boves Bellies(Jim Starr 
and company). C-MAP Sharpshooters 
(Quasi on the run), and The Bananas(4E 
and Marusic).
In basketball action this week, the 
GSIA Bucks defeated Coaches All-Stars, 
60-51; Nerd-Knockers handled the AllStars, 88-46; Beta escaped Reality 11,41- 
32, GSIA Bucks out played the Other 
Ones, 56-42; The Other Ones came back 
to upset ATO, 47-46. ATO devalued the 
Bucks, 62-42; and ATO knocked MDBC, 
64-58. In other action, MDBC overcame 
Pika, 58-51,and the All-Stars, 89-72.
This week the game to watch is the 
Celtics and the Other Ones who meet on 
Monday, February 13, at 8:00 PM. This 
game will be a classic confrontation - - 
Marusic and Company will have to play 
their very best to overcome the Celtics. 
The game will be close but I pick the Celts 
to win by 3 or 4 points.
TARTAN NEEDS AN ASSISTANT 
SPORTS EDITOR
We are looking for an assistant to the 
sports editor. Requirements for the po
sition are that applicants must be willing 
and able to devote time and thought to im
proving the Tartan sports page.
Interested persons call the sports editor 
at 687-6694, or the Tartan office at 
578-2112.
by Bob Firm
Camegie-Mellon moved into undisputed 
possession of first place in the Presidents 
Athletic Conference with a 73-61 victory 
over league rival Bethany at Skibo Gym. 
The triumph not only put the Tartans on 
top in the PAC, but also extended CMUs 
home winning streak to 16.
The key to the Tartan victory had to be 
their adept use of the four comers offense. 
CMU went to the delay with 3:30 left and 
proceeded to turn a five point lead (63-58) 
into the eight marker margin at the final 
buzzer. Foul shooting made it all possible 
as George Harvey, Joe Belechak, and Les 
Harper combined to go 8 for 8 in the last 
couple of minutes.
The contest was all it wa billed to be as 
Bethany (11-3 and 6-1 in the PAC) and 
CMU fought through 13 ties and 14 lead 
changes in the first half.
 Belechak, who is rapidly turning into
2 one of the conferences outstanding 
z guards, set the tempo of the game by can-* 
z ning CMLPs first three hoops. Two of the 
baskets were a result of his steals off the 
Tartans pressing defense.
Bethanys excellent outside shooting 
matched the Tartans balanced attack 
throughout the first half. The encounter 
was nip and tuck until CMU put an eight 
point spurt on the Bisons late in the first 
20 minutes. Tech went from a 29-27 defecit to a 35-29 advantage as sparkplug Mari
ano DeFilippo and Harvey each hit for 
four. The Tartans had the lead to stay as 
they went to the locker room, 39-34.
CMU moved out to a nine point lead 
early in the second half when the running 
game went into motion. Greg Chambers 
was a definite key to the fast break with 
his rebounding. The 6-3 senior skyed into 
the ozone layer to snag most of his 14 
boards in what definitely had to be the 
most exciting interior play displayed at 
Skibo Gym this season.
Bethany showed championship class by 
closing CMLPs 47-38 advantage down to a 
single point on the outside scoring of 
Armand Natili and Scott Thompson.
But the Tartans were soon able to regain 
control and put the Bisons away with the 
patented four-comers. Bethany showed 
theyre a threat to win the PAC title if they 
can take the Tartans down in West Virgin
ia. But Chambers last hoop of the game, a 
twisting, turning reverse lay-up with a year 
of hang time, also let the Bisons know that 
CMU can really play ball.
Allegheny 69-67
In grade school the sports novels always 
portrayed an All-American hero fighting 
the adversity of a hostile crowd and a pain
ful injury, eventually to come through in 
the clutch to snatch a victory where defeat 
seemed almost a certainty.
Mere fantasy, we may scoff with all of 
our college sophistication we can muster. 
Right? Wrong!
Because at Alleghenys jam packed and 
vocal gymnasium the fantasy came true. 
Carnegie-Mellons All-American guard
George Harvey, playing the entire game 
with a sprained ankle, arched home a bea
utiful 12 foot jumper with only four se
conds remaining to thwart the Gators 
comeback efforts and give the Tartans an 
exciting 69-67 triumph.
Coach Dave Maloney said, George 
showed why he is an All-American. He 
played hurt, yet still did the job in the 
end.
Allegheny battled back from a 16 point 
defecit in the second half to make the con
test a nail-biter. CMU had only a 65-63
lead with 1:50 left. Mariano De Filippo 
and Wheeler, two guards, had a jumpball.. 
Allegheny controlled the tip, but failed to
score.
The Tartans came down and went into 
the four comers offense that they had em
ployed since the 6:00 mark. Larry Hufnagel was fouled and converted the first shot 
of a 1-1 situation, but missed the second.
Allegheny came down the floor and 
with - 1:30 left and trailing 66-63 Eric 
Lindberg, who had an outstanding game 
with 24 points and 16 rebounds; drove in
side for a basket, in the process fouling 
the Tartans Joe Belechak. It'was the second 
key offensive foul that the 6A freshman 
drew down the stretch.
Belechak connected on one of the. free 
throws to push the Tech lead to two, 
with 1:24 showing on the clock. The 
Gators worked it to their hot hand, 
Lindberg. He missed with 33 seconds left 
and Belechak came up with the big re
bound. However, he was called for travel
ling when he slipped on the wet floor.
Allegheny took possession and moved 
the ball around looking for the good tying 
shot and found Turner for an eight footer 
along the baseline. He missed, but Darrell 
Jones followed with one of his 13 tebounds and tipped the ball in for a 65 all 
count with 15 ticks on the clock remain
ing.
CMU inbounded quickly to Harvey who 
scooted up the right sideline, got to excel
lent shooting position on the wing, and 
popped in the game winner.
Hiram 58-55
Camegie-Mellon ran into some of their 
stiffest Presidents Athletic Conference 
competition of the year as they downed 
stubborn Hiram five, 58-55. The Tartans 
did not take command of the contest un
til about only five minutes remained.
Coach Dave Maloney said, We ex
pected a close game at their place. We 
ruined their season last year when we 
beat them, so they were sky high for 
us.
Fouls were a major factor against 
CMU. Hiram shot numerous 1-1 s as 
George Harvey, Joe Belechak, and Greg 
Chambers were each whistled for four 
fouls.
The trio, however, played key roles 
in the winning cause. Outstanding fresh
man Belechak kept CMU in the game with 
his hot first half shooting. With the Tartans 
trailing 44-40 and time rapidly becoming 
an ally of the Terriers, Chambers went to 
work with a three point play and another 
hoop to give CMU a 45-44 advantage that 
they never relinquished.
Then, finally, Harvey nailed things 
down the stretch with the four comer 
offense. As the main ball handling figure 
in the slow down attack, he scored seven 
in the waning minutes to insure the vic
tory.
Harvey again led the scoring for the 
Tartans with 23 points. Belechaks fine 
first half carried him to a 16 point evening. 
Les Harper led the rebounding with 10.
W&J,Hiram visit
Carnegie-Mellon, alone at the top of the 
PAC race with a perfect 7-0 league record 
and a 10-3 overall mark, is home for two 
contests this week at the friendly confines 
of Skibo Gym. The Tartans face Washing
ton & Jefferson tomorrow night at 8:00 
pm and take on Hiram Saturday afternoon 
at 2:00pm.
