tartan
this week
CMU entertainers page 6
Exam schedule 10
New TARTAN editor 12
Tonies for alumni? 20
Hockey all-stars 26
Entropy Profits, 
Stocks Up
April 9, 1974 Volume 74 Number 21
photo by John Rose
by Tom Kendig
Confusion Stalls Elections
Entropy, now in its second month of 
operation, is a financial success. Sales 
Lhave been better than I thought they 
would be, said Harry Rowell, Director of 
Operations.
In its first month. Entropy turned a 
profit of nearly $1,000 on a sales volume 
of about $300 a day. Most of the profit 
was used to buy new supplies of stock. 
We have increased stock so the store does 
not run out of some of its faster selling 
terns as fast, commented Barbara Lindell, 
Assistant Manager of the store.
In the future the profit will be used to 
pay back the money Operations gave the 
store as an initial investment. The initial 
investment was around $10,000; $5,000 
for shelving, carpeting, cash register and 
counter; and $5,000 for the initial invent
ory. After the store pays back the Univer
sity the excess profit will be used to lower 
the prices in the store.
The average mark-up at present is 
approximately 20%.
Mr. Rowell also mentioned that the 
store will be open during the summer but 
the hours will be shortened. Tom Janicki, 
founder and manager of the store, was a 
little disappointed at the amount of 
business done during the week of spring 
. break. He takes this as an indication of 
how sales would be this summer. Lindell 
observed that staff and especially faculty 
'* do not frequent the store although some of 
the staff do use it to buy items they need 
during the day.
There are plans at present to stock the 
top 100 LPs in the store next year. The 
records will be purchased through S & C 
records who at present supply records to 
Duquesne University, The records will be 
priced competitively with stores in Squirrel 
continued from page 14
by Steven Correll
Student Senate postponed its spring 
elections by one week following a series of 
snafus.
Much of the confusion arose because 
Senate did not find out until last week that 
Rules committee chairman Dave Meixner, 
who Was expected to run the elections, had 
resigned two weeks before.
Elections will now be held on Wednes
day and Thursday, April 17 and 18.
As early as the March 19 Senate meet
ing, Information committee chairman 
James Johnston complained that Senate 
was not prepared to hold elections. He 
informed Senate that while he had been 
told that nominating petitions would be 
available by February 18, the petitions did 
not actually show up until almost a month 
later. Johns, n then asked the assembled 
senators whether candidates would still be 
required to return completed petitions by
March 22, and Senate Chairman Frank 
Sacco told him to get in touch with Meix
ner.
Two weeks later, at the next Senate 
meeting, Johnston again complained about 
election preparations. Senate Vice-chairman Steve Lee reported that Meixner had 
quit, but Sacco denied knowledge of any 
resignation.
At the end of that meeting, Senate 
passed a motion by Senator Willie 
Thompson that elections be postponed.
Thompson explains that he thought 
elections would be better organized if 
Senate waited an extra week and that voter 
turnout would improve, particularly due to 
the booth on Carnival midway.
Prior to the March meeting, several sena
tors had expressed fears that few students 
would run for senate office. Asked what 
would have happened if the election had 
been held as scheduled, Thompson said,
We would have had a lot of write-ins.
Meixner says that he put his resignation 
in Saccos mailbox before the March 19 
meeting but that he did not speak to Sacco 
personally. Meixner says that academic 
pressure coupled with his duties as presi
dent of Delta Tau Delta forced him to quit 
the Rules committee chairmanship.
Graduate Senator David Groupe has 
taken responsibility for the elections. Sen
ate seats are open in the Graduate, Unified 
Fraternal Organization, Student Dorm 
Council, Commuter, and Independent Un
dergraduate Campus constitutencies. In 
addition, students will elect a new 
president of student government, and vote 
on referendums proposing a fall midsemes
ter holiday, a half-day Homecoming holi
day, and a fall exam reading period.
Nominating petitions are available at 
Skibo information desk until 5 p.m. on 
Thursday, April 11.
SenateFunds TG, Hockey
ends crontroversy
by Steven Correll
The TGIF controversy has endedStudent Senate has overruled its Finance 
Committee and restored TGs $3,000 bud
get.
Senate also broke a Finance Committee 
deadlock in deciding to fund the Hockey 
Club for another year.
In other reversals of the Finance Com
mittee, Senate approved budgets for the 
Lacrosse "'lub and the Fencing Club, a 
$3,000 increase for ABs lecture budget, 
and a 20% increase in WRCTs budget.
In addition, Senate rejected a finance 
committee proposal to sell a $3 card that 
would entitle a purchaser to a discount on 
AB events. Proponents of the card wanted 
to cut the AB subsidy by $6,000 and let 
the AB use instead the proceeds from sales 
of the card.
Senate itself actually reduced only one 
budget, that of the Lacrosse Club. Most 
were passed without argument.
The discount card proposal, the AB 
budget, and the WRCT budget aroused the 
most controversy. Graduate Senator Lee 
Cooprider and other supporters of the dis
count card proposal maintained that stu
dents who attend AB events and belong to 
some specialized clubs should be made to 
bear more of the cost. They said the dis
count card would let Senate and the AB 
experiment in a small way with cutting 
subsidies. Movies come so close to 
supporting themselves that an increase of a 
nickel in the ticket price would make them 
self-supporting without any government 
subsidy, Cooprider said in defense of the 
practicality of the proposal.
continued on page 5
Hockey club allotted almost $4,000 by finance committee.
Fire Flood Damages Donner
by David Cates
Two floors of a C-MU dormitory were 
evacuated on March 26th when a fire, 
possibly caused by a hot plate, broke out 
in one of the rooms.
Firemen battling the blaze flooded the 
vicinity because the buildings built-in fire 
hoses had been vandalized.
Dave Mentzer left his room for half an 
hour Tuesday morning. When he returned 
at 9:30 a.m., his dresser was flaming and 
the hallway was filling with smoke. He 
summoned help on an alarm box outside, 
then went back into his room with a fire 
extinguisher.
Floor counselor Paul Masulis also tried 
to spread the alarm but had to go to an
other floor to do so because the first alarm 
box he found had been stuffed with card
board. Within a few minutes, the remaining
residents were outside shivering in the 30 
degree cold.
Firemen discovered that the nozzles had 
been removed from the dorms built- in 
hoses, making it impossible for them to 
control the flow of water. (Ombudsman 
Frank Colosimo reported that the nozzles 
were all returned the day after the fire.)
Security, Maintenance and Air-Chem, an 
outside fumigator, spent the rest of the day 
cleaning up the damage caused by smoke 
and flooding.
M e n t ze r thinks the fire could have 
been caused by a hot plate hed kicked 
under his dresser. He said hed been using it 
to warm up his room at night because of 
inadequate heating.
Because the insurance policy on Donner 
Hall does not cover the first $10.000 of 
any damage, Mentzer is responsible for the 
expense.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2THE TARTANTuesday, April 9, 1974
editors note
double standard
Students at C-MU wishing to participate in intercollegiate football, 
cross- country, soccer, wrestling, basketball, swimming, tennis, track, golf, 
and rifle can find these teams at the Department of Physical Education 
and Athletics, but those desiring to play in such sports as hockey and 
lacrosse need not attempt to get support from A thletics. It has been tried, 
and failed.
The current undergraduate catalog states that the Department of Inter
collegiate Athletics "stresses wide participation for the individual but 
fails to say that this wide participation is only stressed in the existing areas 
of traditional style varsity sports with no encouragement shown by the 
Athletics Department towards new interests expressed by the students.
It was left up to the student body, through their representatives in the 
Student Senate, to spend over six thousand dollars from the student 
activities fee next year to support the three year old Hockey Club and the 
recently passed Lacrosse Club.
The Athletics Department has the facilities to write team insurance and 
handle team equipment yet it refuses to consider new intercollegiate 
programs. Dean Swank has said that in order to incorporate a new 
aihletics program, an old one would have to be dropped. He claims there 
is no money to be spent for any new programs. As a result it is left up to 
Senate whether the Hockey and Lacrosse Clubs live or die.
Since these two sports dubs are funded by the Activities Fee, students 
are given a direct say in whether the dubs are providing effective service. 
When sports get funds from tuition through the Department of Athletics, 
students are not given any say on what programs should be continued.
Now that the Hockey dub, after three years of successful operation, 
has proved that it is a viable relief for the hardworkingbrain, an 
evaluation should be made of all existing programs with the intention of 
finding one that isnt serving as many students either through participa
tion or through fan participation as the Hockey Club. Then that sport 
should be dropped in favor of hockey.
It is not unreasonable to ask Student Senate to fund a new experi
mental sports dub, as it has just done with Lacrosse Club. It is unreason
able to have Senate to continue to support the dub indefinitely even after 
it has maintained a successful operation record. There is no reason why 
students should assume double responsibility for supporting athletics. 
Either make the professionals handle all sports, or give all the athletic 
money to Student Government and let the students handle the C-MU 
athletic program. C-MU is not a large enough university to maintain a 
double standard.
Gary Singer 
Managing Editor
Imi tartan
News Editor: Rob SimbecK 
Features Editor: Shelley Burhans 
Entertainment Editor: Susan Klein
Reporters: David Cates, Steven Correll, Tom 
Kendig, Tom Schwartz, Debbie 
Weiss, Barbra Witte
Entertainment staff: Tony Adler, Mark Evan 
Chimsky, Stacey Kimbell 
Entertainment artist: Richie Laeton
Sports: Dave Girdany, Mike Pochan, Dave 
Kanner
Editor-in-Chief: Christine Infante 
Managing Editor: Gary Singer 
Business Manager: Lester Nathan
Sports Editor: Jeff Englund
Photography Editors: Ed Leviae, Elliot Arons
Head Reporter: Debbie Siegel
Photographers: Bruce Edelston, Ellen Eddy,
Chris Farland, Nick Lardas, Elliot Popowitz, Rod 
Reilly, John Rose, Frederick Shamlian, John 
Shettel, Courtney Larson, Bryan Smith, Frank 
Stein, RicWerme
Layout: Louise LoPinto
Cartoonists: Ron Wiggins, Kitty Fischer
Copy: Mina Gerall, Sandy Preuhs, Cathy
Kinneavy
The Editorial Board of the TARTAN reserves the right to adit or withhold any copy that it 
considers unfit for publication. Published every Tuesday during the academic year by the student 
government of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Deadlines are 12 noon 
for announcements, classified ads and letters to the editor and 5:00 pm. for articles and display ads 
on the Wednesday proceeding the Tuesday of publication. Editorial and Business offices are located 
in Skibo 50. Telephone (412) 682-4557 or campus extension 656.
I feel so tied down and 
I would have to have.Spiing fever. .
letters:
Editor:
I am writing as President of the 
Carnegie-Mellon Student Government Cor
poration, applicant to the FCC for a Non
commercial, Educational Broadcast License 
to be operated by WRCT at 88.3 MHz. I 
would like to provide the accurate informa
tion on the current status of the licensing 
procedure, information that may be some
what contrary to Mr. Singers March 19 
comment entitled WRCTagate.
The FCC issued a Construction Permit 
to the Corporation on September 5, 1973 
allowing installation and testing of all 
transmitting equipment. With installation 
completed, testing began on March 1,
1974. We learned shortly thereafter that 
three minor changes in our operating 
equipment and personnel would require fil
ing a Form 340 with the FCC to amend 
our Construction Permit. These three 
changes were: new Technical Director; new 
Transmitter; and new antenna location (al
tered by a few feet).
Form 340 was filed with the FCC on 
Thursday, March 21, 1974 and broadcast 
tests have been suspended until the amend
ed Construction Permit is issued and per
mission is received to resume testing prior 
to granting of the Broadcast License. Mr. 
Hackman of the FCC has informed me that 
we should not expect our amended Con
struction Permit for about one month.
The delay is unfortunate, especially for 
the Station personnel, who have worked so 
hard to bring about the FM Conversion. 
The FCC application procedures are ex
tremely bureaucratic and without the 
assistance of paid legal counsel (which our 
Corporation cannot afford), we are doing 
our best within the limitations of the 
knowledge being provided to us on a volun
tary basis.
Because WRCT has been such an in
tegral part of the annual Spring Carnival 
weekend, the stations engineering staff 
will be converting to AM carrier status in 
order that the Carnival Midway and Sweep
stakes events will receive adequate cover
age.
Editor:
This is in response to Dr. Greggs claim 
that English SAC meetings are better 
attended because more English majors are 
dissatisfied with the department.
As a SAC member in good standing, I 
should like to point out to Dr. Gregg that 
just the opposite is true. Our meetings are 
well attended because the students in the 
English department know that they carry 
some weight, and because they know they 
can get things done. No one in our meet
ings complains about an unbalanced pro
grams, or that a whole segment of our fieldgj 
is only given token regard. Weve never had 
problems with departmental unity, either.
Dr. Gregg would be well advised to have 
better information before making such 
generalizations. Out SAC is active bacause 
we love our department, and we think its a 
good one and were committed to working 
together with our teachers to keep it that 
way.Vicky Stein  
English Department SAC
Editor:
The Senate sagacious 
In all things fallacious 
Reported obscurely that they wanted to, 
Replace that base felon , (
(i.e. Carnegie-Mellon) 
With a new pseudo-parent; thats Pitts
burgh to you.
As elections drew nearer 
The lame ducks grew fearful 
And flooded the meetings with bills by the 
score.
Now one half agrees
The activity fees ^
Should be cut while the other half's shout- * 
ing for more.
Without resolution
(Since theres no constitution)
A permanent alternate speaks from the - 
floor
To stop Fights and riot 
Hes screaming for quiet, *
But no one can hear what he says anymore.
Robert W. McCurdyB. Vanzetti

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, April 9, 1974Page 3
.letters:
Editor:
Please, enough already! Weekly reading 
of the TARTAN is becoming a more pain
ful experience with each issue. Why do we 
have to be subjected to the garbage thats 
commonly referred to as reviews, by the 
self-pronounced experts in the fields of art, 
music, drama, etc.? Although in rare in
stances the critics might have some grain of 
knowledge to back up their statements, 
most of the time their critique is nothing 
more than a personal opinion, and belongs 
in the Letters to the Editor column. 
Until such time as Clive Barnes or Judith 
Crist proffers his/her services to the TAR
TAN or the staff becomes a little more 
informed and witty, lets refrain from the 
filler.
Now, what to do with all that blank 
space? Personally, I would like to see the 
incorporation of city, state, national and 
international news in addition to campus 
happenings. Ive seen other college papers 
that do this, and it seems a very sensible 
and worthwhile idea. Most students read 
the TARTAN; a few read the Press, Time, 
Newsweek, etc., but many go around won
dering whats going on in the real world. 
Obviously, there are limits as to the num
ber of articles that can be printed; let the 
Editor use his discretion. In any case, I can 
see this as being far more beneficial to the 
campus community than inundating us 
with a lot of show business rhetoric. Thank 
you.
Jeff Goodman, 76
Editor:
A recent article in the Pittsburgh Press, 
Computer Stars in Energy Forum, de
scribed workshops on energy and the en^ vironment to be held soon at Carnegie 
Mellon University. At each of the work
shops there will be an Energy-Environment 
Simulator in which are stored the complex 
interrelationships of energy consumption, 
environmental effects, and fuel resource 
use. The Atomic Energy Commission pro
grammed the computer, according to the 
article. Workshop participants will feed 
v* their ideas on how to deal with the nations 
energy problems. . . 
For those of you who play the energy 
environment game I suggest you look for 
three things: 1) Is the computer pro
grammed to assume the existence of the 
breeder reactor? 2) Does the computer pro
vide for advances in solar energy? 3) Does 
the computer assume that the United 
States has the entire worlds natural re
sources at its disposal?
1 agree that we need to reduce con
sumption and look towards non-fossil fuel 
energy sources. I do not agree that those 
non-fossil energy sources should be nuclear 
power.
CMU rediscover the idea that war is the 
instrument of confusion, oppression, and 
misery no matter how scientific or ab
stractly tactical it seems to become? Just as 
the spear and the radar-controlled anti
personnel missile are identical in their 
essential character, so the Hitler Youth and 
the ROTC cadet are identical.
Nor do I mean to limit my condemna
tion to the ROTC. The military and the 
philosophy of murder should be banished 
from every level and discipline of this uni
versity. The scientist, the technologist, the 
scholar who works with the specific intent 
of abetting the organization or refining the 
methodology of murder is as culpable as 
any prospective second lieutenant. In fact, 
hypocrisy may render him worse: at least 
ROTC cadets wear a uniform characteristic 
of their potential crime.
And the crime is nothing less than mur
der. Murder happens when one person (or 
government, or nation) takes away the life 
of another under conditions to which the 
victim has not consented. Thus, when one 
boxer kills another in the ring, it is not 
murder; but if a thief ends the life of his 
victim, that is murder. If one knight kills 
another in a joust, it is not murder; but if a 
soldier shoots down a civilian, that is mur
der. That is murder: hideous because it is 
arrogant, arrogant because one individual 
has made the egotistical decision that an
other is to die, that a life, a thing of infin
ite possibility and uniqueness, is to be 
ended. I would not mind if ROTC cadets 
only killed other ROTC cadets; let them do 
it; let them have an island all to themselves 
and let them kill each other by mutual 
agreement, but they do not: they are 
trained to murder.
I find war unpleasant. I think that the 
idea of dying in a war is repulsive in its 
wastefulness. My opposition to ROTC and 
the scientists and philosophers of war is 
that they assume I want to play when they 
begin their murderous game. I do not. And 
apparently the government and people of 
the United States agree with me in prin
ciple since they have abolished the Draft in 
favor of an all-volunteer army. Now that I 
have been assured that no one is going to 
make me drop a bomb, who is going to give 
the assurance that no one is going to drop a 
bomb on me?
This, then, is my suggestion: let us, be a 
referendum of the entire campus commun
ity to be held in the last weeks of this 
semester or the first weeks of the next, 
decide whether or not to banish ROTC 
from our midst. My hope is that CarnegieMellon University will rid itself of the 
militarists, the practitioners of the science 
and theory of murder.
Anthony Adler 
English Department, CMU
Editor:
Renovation plans for the Fine Arts 
building include moving the Drama wood 
shop from its present location (SW end of 
basement) to where the Sculpture studio is 
currently located (NE end of basement), 
which is virtually underneath Exhibition 
Hall, the only room the Music department 
has for recitals and large ensemble rehear
sals.
The construction of scenery in the past 
has been an acoustical problem as far as 
Exhibition Hall is concerned; rehearsals 
and recitals have been plagued with noise
from hammering and power tools. Moving 
the wood shop even closer will make the 
problem worse.
(Drama scenery is constructed through
out the year on Monday through Friday 
evenings. Exhibition Hall is used through
out the year, Monday through Wednesday 
evenings. Recitals are frequently given on 
Thursday and Friday evenings).
I see only three reasons to defend the 
move, acoustically. First, the shop is not 
directly under Exhibition Hall. This is in
valid because of the already existing noise 
problem, with the shop at the other end of 
the building. Secondly, there is the fact 
that a shop already exists there. This is 
invalid because the Sculpture studio pro
duces a much lower noise level than the 
wood shop, due to the difference in tools 
and materials used. (Molding clay and 
paper-mache is somewhat quieter than 
ripping lumber with a radial arm saw).
Thirdly, there is the installation of 
heavy soundproofing. (I do not know 
whether or not such has been planned.) 
Even this has limitations; scenery building 
requires large areas; as now, it is probable 
that construction work will spill out into 
the hallway, where sound will carry 
through the building as it does now, only 
the source of the noise will be even closer. 
If installation of sound proofing is planned, 
has an acoustical engineer thoroughly 
examined the situation, and are his re
commendations being followed?
Current soundproofing in other areas in 
the Music department has already proved 
inadequate (i.e., mezzanine and basement 
practice rooms). This may be due to a 
tendency to do things cheaply, without 
concern as to whether or not the problem 
will be properly solved.
New buildings are not solutions. Re
novation is a valid approach. But if it is 
done without careful concern of all factors 
involved, new and perhaps bigger problems 
will replace the old ones.
John Dyba
Editor:
I, James Johnston, hereby announce my 
resignation by default from CMU Student 
Senate. I do so for the following reasons:
1. I am unable to carry out my elected 
duty because:
A. The Student Senate is composed of 
people who do not wish to make decisions, 
whether or not they are necessary.
B. It is impossible to effect any useful 
or progressive legislation because the Sena
tors will not allow themselves to take any 
sort of action that could possibly lead to 
their being criticized by their interest 
groups.
C. The Senate refuses to take any action 
which will result in any long term gain, as 
opposed to a short-term gain that will not 
be permanent.
D. Ineffective leadership that allows all 
of the Senates work to be prejudiced by 
the special interest groups that happen to 
dominate the particular committee 
assigned that particular task.
E. The meetings invariably consist of 
petty arguing generated by the various per
sonalities, and never face the question at 
hand.
F. Several members of Senate have 
taken it upon themselves to oppose any 
legislation that originates in any other 
mind than their own, and will oppose this 
using any method that they can muster,
Par Hoffman
Editor:
When will Carnegie-Mellon University be 
rid of the ROTC? When will this university 
be sufficiently offended by military 
science, which is the theory of effective 
murder, by the ROTC scholarship pro
gram, which means payment for the study 
and possible act of murder, by the ROTC 
uniform, which constitutes the insignia of 
the murderer, to oust that organization and 
the philosophy that condones it? When will 
the administration, faculty, and students of
including (in my opinion), slander, per
sonal attacks, procedural hassles that make 
the question at hand obscure, and so on.
2. I no longer wish to be associated with 
a body that does not follow the purposes 
set forth for it, and insists upon consistantly taking the most shortsighted path avail
able.
I am the chairman of Information 
Committee of Senate, which is the commit
tee responsible for election publicity. Dur
ing January, I asked the Rules committee, 
which is responsible for running elections, 
when the petitions for elections would be 
available. I was informed, after much de
bate, that the petitions would be available 
on February 18, and would be due on 
March 22. The petitions were first made 
available on March 19, and there was no 
one who knew when the petitions would 
be due.
Similarly, I was informed that the elec
tions would be on April 10 and 11. I do 
not know if the elections will be held on 
these dates, or indeed if they will be held 
at all. I am advertising that the election will 
come on these dates, but I have seen ab
solutely no effort to organize any kind of 
election system, or any effort to make 
ballots, or distribute the list of candidates, 
if any.
I might point out that this organization, 
which lacks the necessary abilities to pro
mote and hold an election, has the power 
to legislate TGIF out of existance, cut off 
the Explorers club without even their last 
years budget, tell the Hockey team to 
pay for its own practice time, since it isnt 
attended by CMU in general, or raise its 
income without even asking students.
I trust that these reasons will show why 
I do not wish to be a part of this organiza
tion. I have grown tired ofhoping that the 
people in this organization will demon
strate mental or fiscal maturity, and of 
being the lone person arguing for doing it 
right, Just Once, and being ridiculed for 
my efforts.
Janies David Johnston
continued on page 17
how am I going to get out 
of this slump...I just cant 
get down to work

---------------------------------------------------

announcements
11 II ? /I >1
The League for Women Voters will be in
the Skibo lobby on Wednesday, April 10 
between 10 a.m.6 p.m. They will be pass
ing out petitions calling for "tighter re
strictions on Federal campaign financing. 
Anyone 17 years or older, whether or not 
he or she is a registered voter, is eligible to 
sign.
>Applications for the Hunt Institute Fellow
ship Award are now being received in 2I6 
Warner Hall. The Hunt Institute Fellowship 
is awarded each year to an undergraduate 
or graduate student at Carnegie-Mellon 
University. Applicants are required to 
present a prospectus for a research program 
which will make use of resources available 
in the Hunt Institute.
The deadline for receiving applications 
is May I, I974. The winner will be 
announced by May 8, I974.
Undergraduate students in English, history,
psychology, economics, modern languages, 
social relations, mathematics, physics, 
music and art interested in high school 
teaching are invited to inquire about a new 
Practicum in Education course to be 
offered next fall.
Students may earn from six to nine 
units.
Arrangements for placement of students 
in high schools will be made by the Di
rector of Teacher Education. For further 
information see Dr. John H. Sandberg in 
Room 239 Baker Hall.
National Organization for Women (NOW)
will be on campus April 10 and II to discuss 
the desexification of County government 
and how you can help. Stop by our table in 
Skibo.
TONIGHT an informal student concert in
the Wherrett Room (Tuesday, April 9). 
Featured will be a woodwind quintet, a 
flute-oboe-clarinet trio, and more; per
forming the works on unfamous com
posers. Free and open to the public.
Computer Graphics and Symmetry 21-106
Students: the L047 account has been re
opened. Final projects must be completed 
by May 7th or an incomplete will turn 
automatically into an F. Finish the project 
and you will be forgiven for uncompleted 
homework.
The last Tenth Muse coffeehouse of the
year will be on Friday, April 12. It will start 
at 9 p.m. in the Wherrett Room. Admission 
I and food are free. Come and have a relax* ing evening.
The English Lecture Series will present a
slide lecture by David Demarest on Ho
garth's "Idleness and Industry," on Tues
day April I6th at II:30 in Breed Hall. The 
Lecture is free and open to the public.
Make sure you don't miss the next Tuesday
Forum: Perspectives on Professional
Theatre, TV, and Directing. The speaker 
will be Charles Haid (C-MU 68) who is 
here directing the next Drama Department 
mainstage production, House of Blue 
Leaves. He has also been associated with a 
multitude of other productions including 
Gods pel I, The Execution of Private Slovick, and the California Shakespeare Festi
val, to name a few. The Forum will start at 
12:30 on Tuesday, April 16, 1974 in the 
Wherrett Room and is free and open to all 
C-MU faculty, students and staff.
Dining Club: Now is the time to join or
inquire about Fall, 1974. For students on 
all University campuses, there is a meal 
plan to fit every student. Sabbath dinners. 
It is sponsored by B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish 
University Center. Call the Hillel Office, 
621-8875, for more information.
Black Americans in the Caribbean will be
the subject of a lecture given by Professor 
Bobby Hill on April 10th. The lecture will 
be held at 3:00 p.m. in the Library of the 
Black Studies Department, 3804 Forbes 
Avenue.
Various fellowships will be available for
students entering graduate school in Sept
ember, 1975. Now is the time to be aware 
of them as the cut-off date for applications 
in most cases is late October and leaves 
little time in the fall to write proposals:
Students wishing to enter college teach
ing may be interested in the Danforth 
Fellowship for study in the U. S.
Scholars wishing to study overseas may 
wish to apply for one of the following: 
Churchill, East-West, Fulbright, Luce, 
Marshall, or Rhodes. (The Churchill, Mar
shall, and Rhodes are restricted to study in 
Great Britain.)
Although actual applications for most 
of the above are not available until sum
mer, many of them require the preparation 
of a portfolio or other evidence of detailed 
planning for completion. If you are in
terested in preliminary information to help 
you to do your planning, stop in and see 
Dean Milligan (Warner Hall 207) before 
you leave for summer recess.
Jobs both on campus and with agencies
throughout the city of Pittsburgh are avail
able for the summer under the College 
Work-Study program. Students may work 
40 hours per week.
The Work-Study program, which was set 
up under the Economic Opportunity Act 
to create additional jobs for needy students, 
will begin this summer on either May 20 or 
May 28 (depending on our federal alloca
tion) and go thru August 24, 1974. Posi
tions are open on campus for library 
assistants, and in various departments for 
lab assistants, research assistants and cleri
cal work. Off-campus jobs include tutorial, 
recreational, arts and crafts and clerical.
Any student who has filed a Parents' 
Confidential Statement for the coming 
academic year 1974-75 is eligible to apply.
Please come to the Financial Aid Office 
no later than April 15,1974 to complete an 
employment application for summer work 
study and make an appointment for an 
interview.
All women graduates of Carnegie-Mellon
are eligible for membership in the Ameri
can Association of University Women.
With 1675 branches in the 50 states, DC 
and Guam, AAUW has over 170,000 mem
bers from over 1140 American colleges and 
universities. Through its programs, mem
bers are enabled to continue their intellect
ual growth, to further the advancement of 
women, and to discharge their special 
responsibility to society.
C-MU's liaison representative is Betty 
Jane Lloyd, Associate Dean, H&SS. Grad
uating seniors should come to MMCC 106 
for further information ar&) membership 
interest cards.
Student Senate election petitions are still
available at the Skibo Information desk. 
Senate seats will be open in all constitu
encies and for President of Student 
Government. The elections will be held 
May 17th and 18th.
Kits containing information about gradua
tion, commencement announcements, and 
Calendars of Commencement Events can 
be picked up by undergraduates and 
graduate candidates during the week of 
April 22 at their departmental offices. 
Evening students can also pick up their 
packets in their departmental offices or 
should contact those offices directly to 
make other arrangements to obtain their 
packets.
Cafe Tel Aviv will close on Wednesday,
April 3, and will re-open in the Fall. It is 
sponsored by the B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish 
University Center.
Mr. Donald P. Fischer, Postmaster, at the
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Post Office, 
wishes to announce the issuance of an open 
announcement for examinations to qualify 
for the position of Substitute Clerk-Carrier. 
These positions are located in the Pittsburgh 
Post Office and its facilities. The grade 
level is PS-5, starting salary of $4.65 per 
hour, with periodic increases to $5.93 per 
hour. The announcement will be open 
from March 15, 1974 through April 15, 1974. 
Applications will be accepted only while 
the announcement is open. Applications 
and further information can be obtained at 
any station or branch of the Pittsburgh 
Post Office.
Dr. Margaret Schadler, Learning Research
and Development Center, University of 
Pittsburgh, will speak Friday, April 12, at 
3:30 p.m. in Baker Hall 340-A. The title of 
her talk will be "Cognitive Maps: What 
Young Children Know about Familiar En
vironment." The Colloquium is open to the 
public.
classifieds
personals
Rollins,
You've come a long way baby!
Liepzig
Handsome Devil,
It's my turn to thank you.
We'll make mpre music together.
Love, Bubs."
Anna,
You must remember this,
A hit and then a miss,
I'll still try and try.
The fundamental rules apply.
The rhyme goes by.
And when the column's die,
I still say, "I love you,"
You know I'll never lie.
No matter if the deadline's nigh,
The rhyme goes by.
It's still the same old story,
No by-line and no glory,
The typist never asks me why.
1^ write you till the day I die,
And the rhyme goes by.
Carl
TypewriterRoyal Aristocrat. Excellent
condition, $50.00 (firm). Jim, 300 Boss 
Box 644-CMU.
Need Money: Help run the polls for the
Student Senate elections on April 17 and 
18th. Earn $1.75/hour. Contact Dave 
Groupe at 687-6250 or leave a note in the 
rules committee mailbox at Skibo Informa
tion desk.
Air-conditioned townhouse apartment for
sublet May I through August 31. 5 minute 
walk from C-MU and Pitt. Call 687-0023.
May 1st occupancySquirrel Hill3 bed
room apartment. Kitchen, bath, private 
entrance, den, near shopping, restaurants, 
movies. 422-7400, night 421-9078.
Alto saxophone & Flute for sale, $300.
Please call 441-7885 after 2:00 p.m.
Double and single rooms on campus avail
able for school year '74-'75. Very reason
able, very nice. Many extras. Call Joe 
687-7439.
Staying in Pittsburgh this summer? Cheap
rooms, right on campus. Available second 
week in May. Call Joe, 687-7439.
Boys' Camp in New Hampshire needs male
counselors for general, athletic, water, 
boating, tripping, creative areas. Forty act
ivities. June 26 to August 27. Salaries: 
$350 to $550. Call Ira Krumholz for bro
chure and application at 1055 Morewood 
Avenue, Pittsburgh, 683-5634.
Counselors, over 19, for unique summer
overnight camp in Pennsylvania. Able to 
instruct one of the following: Watersafety, 
Waterskiing, Chemistry, Physics, Rocketry, 
NRA Riflery, Soccer, or Ham Radio. Write 
Camp Director 138 Red Rambler Drive, 
Lafayette Hill, PA 19444.
Summer Jobs: Local office of national firm
hiring people 18 years of age or over for 
summer jobs in Pittsburgh area. $100 week
ly to start. Also incentive earnings avail
able. For personal interview call (9:30 a.m. 
until 2:00 p.m.) 281-0308.
Hustler can make $l00/day easily showing
hilarious STREAKERSTICKERS; free figleaf put-ons clinch $3 sale. You keep half. 
Ride the streak craze and have a ball 
getting rich. Send $1 (refundable) for sock 
sales kit and instructions. Mile-Hi, Box 
3173, Boulder, Colorado, 80303.
If you are interested in being a paid subject
in one or more psychology experiments 
please call 621-2600, ext. 277. Leave your 
name and number and we will call to 
arrange a convenient time.
Summer RoomsTau Delta Phi Fraternity,
$125 per person. June l-August 26, 
621-3584.
Grad student looking for a responsible
roommate next year (most of the summer, 
too). Male or female. Must be able to share 
all responsibilities involved. Write Greg 
Bouse, 217 Hubbell Street, Houghton, Mi. 
49931.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, April 9, 1974-Page 5
WRCT, AB Budgets Disputed
continued from page 1
But AB Director Ira Picker und AB con
certs chairman Rick Wertheimer opposed 
the card on the grounds that it wouldn't 
be good business to introduce more risk 
into their operations. Wertheimer ex
plained that the AB cant expect students 
to pay the costs of new, rising performers 
whose names aren't yet familiar, and that 
concerts therefore need subsidy.
Commuter Senator Ed Simon criticized 
the AB budget itself, complaining that the 
AB, which receives more money from the 
student activities fee than does any other 
organization, fails to provide finance 
committee with as detailed a breakdown of 
projected expenses as other organizations 
do.
Picker replied that the AB opens its re
cords of past finances to all senators.
The AB won approval of its budget and 
rejection of the discount card proposal by
20 to 2 and by 20 to 6 respectively. Short
ly after the second vote. Senate gave the 
AB an extra SI,000 to hold the Spring 
Carnival concert in Carnegie Music Hall in
stead of the Gym.
Criticism of WRCT's budget request 
came primarily from Simon, who told 
Senate it was the classic example of an 
ever so slightly padded budget. Simon 
claimed that WRCTs budget has grown 
from less than S4,000 to more than $9,000 
in recent years while the station originally 
promised finance committee that conver
sion to FM would permit more economical 
operation. He complained that telephone 
expenses have not declined even though
the station has eliminated telephone lines 
to two AM transmitters and that the 
WRCT stationery allocation would half 
fill this room with paper.
I will only say that the budget I have 
presented is not padded in any way I know 
of. replied WRCT General Manager Frank 
Napoli.
Napoli, who said a few weeks ago that 
WRCT would try to live with finance 
committee's recommended budget, ex
plained to the TARTAN why he asked 
Senate to restore some of the committees 
cuts. The change is mostly due to the fact 
that we discovered we needed ... 3 pieces 
of fairly expensive test equipment that the 
FCC requires for FM stations, he said.
The motion to give WRCT S7,640 in
stead of the S6,390 that finance committee 
had recommended passed by 9 to 6 with 9 
abstentions. Three WRCT staff members 
supported their budget in the rather close 
vote: Randy Subers, who voted the proxy 
of Senator James Johnston, and Senators 
Beverly Robinson and Ronald Smith.
When I vote I try to vote as a senator 
rather than as a member of WRCT, ex
plained Ms. Robinson,  . . . theres a lot of 
things 1 disagree with in the budget
The motion to accept the amended bud
get passed by 19 to I with four absten
tions.
Some controversy also arose over the 
Lacrosse Club budget, with some senators 
questioning whether Senate should pay for 
personal insurance for players and whether 
the club has actually demonstrated student
support. A compromise to subsidize only 
half of the insurance costs was arranged, 
and the budget passed.
The budgeting process is now complete 
for this semester, with the following alloca
tions of money from the student activities 
fee:
The budgeting process is now complete 
for this semester, with the following alk>cations of money from the student activities 
fee:
Activities Board$36,750
Cameron Choir$1,385
Carnegie Commuter Council$860
Carnegie Technical$2,300
Club LatinoamricaS78
Faculty Course Evaluation$2,130
Hockey Clubs3,965
CMU Karate Clubs425
Explorers Clubs735
Fencing Clubs310
LaCrosse Clubs2,176
Programming Funds5,500
Radio Clubs355
Rifle and Pistol Club$100
CMU Sailing Club$50
CMU Ski Club$120
Spirit$500
CMU Student Art Gallery$2,400
Student Government$1,615
Tartan$22,639
Thistle$900
WRCT$7,640
Total$82,933
Pre 
Registration
Pre-registration will be held on April 15 
and 16 between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. in each 
academic department.
Two copies of the new schedule form 
should be signed by the students advisors 
and returned to their major department to 
be held until formal registration on Sept
ember 3, 1974. Students who have pre
registered will be given preference for 
places in courses over all students who have 
not pre-registered regardless of their classi
fication (i.e. senior, junior), according to 
William L. Rogers, Registrar.
Cross-registration at PCHE schools re
quires that the student file the special 
cross-registration form which is available in 
the Registrars Office. The University of 
Pittsburgh will not accept these forms prior 
to July 10 or after 5 p.m. on September 
16.
RESEARCH
Thousands of Topics 
S2.75 per page 
Send for your up-to date, 160-page, 
mail order catalog. Enclose $1.00 
to cover postage (delivery time is 
1 to 2 days).
RESEARCH ASSISTANCE, INC.
11941 WILSHIRE BLVD., SUITE #2 
10S ANGELES, CALIF. 90025 
(213) 477-8474 or 477-5493
Our research material is sold for 
research assistance only.
e
STUDENT SENATE 
ELECTIONS
WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY, APRIL 17 AND 18 
FROM 9 A.M. TO 5 P.M. AT
Baker Hall for H&SS, CFA, AMS & Grads 
Dougherty Hall for CIT & MIS
THURSDAY, APRIL 17 FROM 5 P.M. TO 10 P.M. ATwortz ylies9 v**t>\OOHt 9>tem nsa istfoiH .hvsu ,RobS,im eo c 1 >; 1 tm oi sort boot b
SPRING CARNIVAL MIDWAY
For Everybody
COME VOTE ON
 WHether to hove a foil midterm break
 Whether to have a half-day vocation at Homecoming
 Whether to hove an exam period in the foil semester
 Who will be President of Student Senate
 Individual Senate seats
1 ' ' i * i I . J I ,  I . , , 
BRING YOUR C-MU ID
K hl y KB

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, April 9, 1974
They Keep On Dancing
thi swekc lak fwddwpron rB eak fruBe wf A 
BkurkB wf lDIlDs fkAePukB hkAdron prea A 
BAdd mwhR wf Wg' BePhkoeB pawBk 
pwudhBb prea Ahhkh hrkoBrwoB wf uwfkBB.
rwoAd kufwuAoxk Aoh rowdkkoeb 
AxerkdR euAoBxkoh eak AxAhkrxi
mR ykmmrk ,krBB
The advice to prospective dancers, upon 
reaching adolescence, has always been: get 
into a company, and the sooner, the 
better! Dancers were considered over the 
hill if they hadnt at least been apprenticed 
to a company by the age of 19 or 20. As a 
result, many dancers were thrust into the 
highly competitive, demanding and ex
hausting milieu of dance and theatre at the 
tender age of 16 or 17. Of course, the place 
to go was New York City, dance capital of 
the U.S.A. Many couldnt withstand the 
pressures and hardships of dancing 5 and 6 
hours a day in huge classes where a place in 
the coveted front row meant elbowing the 
next dancer out of the way, where little 
time and energy were left for socializing 
and money was tight. All this and more 
was bome for the love of dance and the 
hope of making it from a background 
dancer in the corps de ballet to a 
principalto stardom.
Today, the competition has not less
ened. In fact, dozens of small companies 
have sprung up all over the country, no 
longer limited to NYC and a few other 
huge metropolitan areas. More people are 
dancing or in the audience than ever be
fore. I cant help wondering how many 
students would have attended the Alvin 
Ailey Dance Demonstration at C-MU had it 
been 8 or 10 years ago. The packed bleachCMU's student entertainers: Cheryl 
Utsunomiya (above), Susan Janetta 
(right), Susan Stone (below), and 
Donn Simione (lower left).
ers at the gym last month testify to the 
recent surge of interest in dance.
There is now a new alternative open to 
young dancers who dont want to give up 
their studies, their outside interests and 
their social contact with non-dancers of 
their age group. Dance has moved into the 
colleges. Dance programs are finally being 
accredited and expanded by universities 
and whats more important, many dance 
companies are gleaning their dancers from 
college-supported dance schools. It is now 
possible to pursue academic studies and 
dance simultaneously with opportunities 
for performing.
The following four C-MU students per
form in the areas of dance and theatre. 
Their schedules are heavy, spanning six 
days of the week and sometimes demand
ing up to 14 hours of class and rehearsalper day (to say nothing of homework). 
However, the rigorous training is worth the 
time and effort to those who love their art, 
and the unanimous feeling among these 
four was that they wouldnt have it any 
other way.
Donn Simione and Cheryl Utsunomiya 
are among the six remaining dramats in the 
theatre dance option. Both Cheryl, whose 
training has been primarily in classical bal
let, and Donn who has tapped his way 
through numerous musicals, agree that 
theatre dance at Carnegie-Mellon is for 
actors who dance rather than for dan
cers who act. Modern dance and tap
classes three times a week just do not con
stitute a dance major. Instead, the dancing 
is a supplement to theatre training, which 
includes acting, voice, movement, mime 
and all the stagecraft necessary in the pro
duction of a play. Cheryl regrets the lack 
of formal dance training at C-MU but finds 
the training in movement and mime ex
cellent. Donn especially admires Paul 
Draper, head of theatre dance. Both dan
cers agree that the overall excellency of the 
drama department compensates them for 
the meagre offerings in dance.
Cheryl is currently rehearsing for the 
senior project, CdAR Se DnArob EAb which 
opens in the studio theatre April 25. 
Cheryl will be playing the leading role of 
the wife, Linda. Her credits for this past 
year include the mainstage production of 
laukkkooR zkuAb and two masters 
shows, lak IkakAuBAdBb Aoh WAddwpvB 
jPwui
Her plans for this summer are uncertain 
at the moment, as are Donns. Both are 
waiting to hear from Civic Light Opera. 
Each summer, CLO chooses 6 dancers and
6 singers to perform in 6 musicals. The 
rehearsal schedule is hectic, the pay excell
ent and the few positions highly coveted. 
Donn danced with Civic Light Opera two 
summers ago, at which time he met and 
became friendly with Kay Ballard. (Its 
nice to have an in.) Last summer he 
began rehearsals with Civic Light but had 
to quit due to an injury. For Cheryl, CLO 
is a first. Alternate plans for the summer, if 
CLO doesnt work out? Donn will go 
meditate in the mountains and Cheryl will 
go back to her native California to teach 
dance at the school she established 6 years 
ago with a friendwhich has blossomed 
from a handful of students in her living 
room to a full-fledged school with over 70 
pupils.
Whats behind a dedication to theatre 
that is so all-consuming? What makes dan
cers and actors get up for Dynamics at 
continued on page 7

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, April 9, 1974-Paqe 7
DANCE, Continued
continued from page 6
9:00 a.m. and keep going until ten or ele
ven in the evening when rehearsal ends? 
The answer is an unquenchable and some
times unexplainable love for the art and a 
desire to come as close to artistic perfec
tion as possible. Donn knew he had to 
dance from the time he saw his first Fred 
Astaire movie at age 7. His mother prompt
ly enrolled him in tap classes, to which 
acting lessons were added in high school. 
His first roles were in high school musicals 
and in productions at the local Youngsdancers agree that the overall 
excellency of the Drama dept, 
compensates for the meagre 
offerings in dance
town playhouse. Donn is currently rehears
ing for the master show, Ao wf whk 
and has held leading roles in two of the 
mainstage productions this year, laukk.
kooR zkuA and ywkB A lrnku ,kAu A 
skxTerk2 as well as appearing in the 
masters plays, lak IkakAuBAd and 0wohwo 
DBBPuAoxki
Cheryl, too, has always loved to dance 
and perform. She began ballet training at 
the age of 5 in Santa Barbara, though she 
did not begin serious training until the 
age of 14, when she commuted daily to 
Santa Barbara to study under former 
American Ballet Theatre dancers Bob and 
Carol Hanlin. Her first acting experience 
was in high school musicals accompanied 
by two seasons of summer repertory work 
with the Pacific Conservatory. She attend
ed the University of Utah for two quarters 
as a ballet major but had to leave due to 
illness. However, in that short time, she 
danced in the corps of WrohkukddA with 
Ballet West (affiliated with the U. of Utah) 
and assisted the teaching of character 
classes. While convalescing, she took 
courses at a local college and choreo
graphed several concerts.
Cheryl graduates this year and plans to 
go to New York in the fall to study with 
one of the major dance companies. Her 
ambition is to be a really good teacher, 
most likely at the college level, where she 
feels the facilities for performing are best. 
She would also like to coach theatre 
groups.
Donn, as a junior, has another year to 
consider career plans. He has already 
looked into auditions for nightclub work in 
California, but thinks hell wind up in the 
New York syndrome.
Both performers see their college educa
tion as essential to their basic knowledge of 
theatre and in their growth as artists.
Susan Jannetta and Susie Stone are both 
18 and sophomores in English at CarnegieMellon. They also are ballet dancers study
ing dance at Point Park College (downtown 
Pittsburgh) in affiliation with the Pitts
burgh Ballet Company. Susie Stone has 
been dancing professionally with the Pitts
burgh Ballet corps de ballet since she was 
thirteen years oldin fact, since its be
ginning at the playhouse. Susan Jannetta, 
who moved to Pittsburgh from New 
Orleans only two years ago, plans to make 
a bid for either the Pittsburgh or the Bos
ton Ballet as soon as she gains back the 
strength she lost this past year as a result of 
a serious knee injury.
Susan J. has wanted to dance for almost 
as long as she can remember and she has
studied at schools spanning both coasts: 
Philadelphia, California, New Orleans. 
North Carolina and Pittsburgh. She began 
formal ballet training at the age of 9, and 
at 13 joined the Ballet Hysell in New 
Orleans. Her last year-and-a-half of high 
school was spent in intense concentration 
on dance at the North Carolina School of 
the Arts, where ballet, modern and char
acter dancing were taught along with 
academics.
With such a love for dance, why get an 
English degree? First of all, Susan is in
terested in the field of English. Secondly, 
she realizes that a career in ballet is fairly 
short-lived and very uncertain. A degree 
serves as a sort of safeguard if the dance 
doesnt work out. As a sophomore, and a 
young one at that, Susan has only hazy 
plans for the distant future. Grad school in 
medieval studies is a possibility. Consider
ing that Susan is now commuting daily to 
Point Park for ballet, traveling to Bloom
field every evening for rehearsals for the 
musical MPRB Aoh ywddBb taking voice and 
acting lessons and also carrying a full load 
of academics, anything is possible! Right 
now Susans immediate goals are firstly, 
MPRB Aoh ywddBb a Camelot production at 
the Plaza Theatre in Bloomfield (opening 
April 19 and running every weekend 
through May 12) in which she dances and 
sings, and secondly, summer stock. She has 
applied for positions with companies in 
New Orleans, New York and all over the 
New England area.
Susie Stone always knew she wanted to 
dance, but it took her a while to realize
that training was necessary to become a 
ballet dancer. At least thats her explana
tion of why she did not begin ballet until 
the age of 12. It is very important to begin 
training when the body is still growing and 
can be more easily molded to the physical 
demands of ballet. However, Susies late 
start does not seem to have hindered her. 
The first few years of a dancers training 
are often wasted by concentrating on 
cute dancing to satisfy the parents. Susie 
began with an intense daily training en
compassing ballet, modern, character and 
jazz, with the emphasis on ballet. She is 
now taking 3 hours of ballet class daily 
along with 3Hr hours of rehearsal. Satur
days are no exception. Her most recent 
performance was in the corps of Irek wf 
Euron and WAuko at Heinz Hall the week...a degree serves as a sort 
of safeguard...
end of March 22. The performance was 
repeated in Fredonia, Pa. this past week
end.
Her summer plans include a month of 
study at the Rosella Hightower Inter
national School of Dance in Cannes, 
France. She says she knows enough French 
to get along and is not worried about 
any communication problems. Since the 
language of ballet is the same throughout 
the world, dancers can communicate with 
each other no matter what their native 
language.
As far as future plans are concerned,
Susie wants to keep on dancing until ola 
age forces her to quit. Then shell con
sider teaching (at about 59 or 60). She 
has no definite goals in mind regarding her 
English degree but pursues it because shes 
interested in dramatic literature and likes 
the college environment. She transferred 
from Point Park to C-MU after her fresh
man year and is enthusiastic about C-MU.
As a matter of fact, all four of the 
performers I interviewed showed an opti
mism and excitement with what they were 
doing that was refreshing. Not that I am 
advocating dancing and acting as a panacea 
for what ails you. But dancing and free 
body movement provide a fantastic and 
exhilerating release. Try it, you may like 
it.
Theliairpainters*
"* iclv Wavers* The Supercutters " Complete Hair 
Specialists. A
Philip Ptlusi ( supercuts j Jj
For Men & Women
521 1200 1814 Murray Ave.421-4500 Pittsburgh. Pa. 15217
Were looking for
Guys and Gals
who want to work and enjoy a funderful summer
at
The Nations Greatest Picnic Park 
PITTSBURGH
I WEST MIFFLIN, PA. 151221
DAILY SEASON BEGINS MAY 10 
NOW INTERVIEWING PERSONNEL OFFICE AT PARK
Mon. Thru Fri. 3:30 to 6 PM Saturdays 9 AM to 2 PM
[No Applications by Mail]

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8THE TARTAN-Tuesdav. April 9, 1974Haven't WeAlways Been?
A.A.O.s Goals and Timetable
mR GAumAuA ,reek
Dr. Ruth Beach, Affirmative Action 
Officer of C-MU, has submitted her longawaited report Women Faculty: Numer
ical Goals, Timetables, Recruitment and 
Monitoring Procedures to the deans of 
each school who in turn must act on her 
recommendations. A similar report is ex
pected for minority candidates.
For most departments the proportion of 
women faculty has been drawn from the 
availability in the labor pool. Presently 8% 
of our faculty are women. The goal in 
1976 is 14.2%. Exceptions are CIT and 
CFA. Approximately one percent of engin
eering doctorates are held by women. Due 
to recent increases in the enrollment of 
women in engineering, the goals for the 
various departments are higher. Since the 
majority of faculty members in CFA do 
not hold doctorates, the pool from which 
faculty is drawn includes professionals in 
the arts. Goals for these departments have 
been estimated according to our own CFA 
graduates and range from an increase of .6 
(architecture) to an increase of 6.7 (P&S).
General affirmative action policy is to 
meet these goals for women faculty by 
September 1976.
In practice, this means we should have 
63.6 women on our university faculty by 
then. The minimum number of newly hired 
employees necessary to reach this goal is
Hundreds ol American students maced inRECOGNIZED OVERSEAS 
MEDICAL SCHOOLS
limigli Euromed!
YFor the session starting July, 1974, 
Euromed will assist qualified Amer
ican students in gaining admission 
to recognized overseas medical 
schools.
And that's just the beginning.
Since the language barrier constitutes 
the preponderate difficulty in succeed
ing at a foreign school, the Euromed 
program also includes an intensive 
12-16 week medical and conversa
tional language course, mandatory for 
all students. Five hours daily, 5 days 
per week (12-16 weeks) the course is 
given in the country where the student 
will attend medical schpol.
In addition, Euromed provides stu
dents with a 12-16 week intensive cul
tural orientation program, with Amer
ican students now studying medicine 
in that particular country serving as 
counselors.
Senior or graduate students currently 
enrolled in an American university are 
eligible to participate in the Euromed 
procram.
For application and further 
information, phone toll tree:
(800) 645-1234
in New York State phone: 
(516) 746 2380
or write,Euromed. Ltd.
170 Old Country Road 
Mineola. NX 11501
9.6 a year for each of the three years, 
1973-4, 1974-5, 1975-6. We average 47 
new faculty members a year, so over the 
next 3 years, 20% of new faculty should be 
women.
Minorities and women are frequently 
recruited only for positions thought to be 
for minorities and women, such as equal 
employment programs, ethnic studies, or 
womens studies. While these positions may 
have a particular suitability for minority 
persons and women, institutions must not 
restrict consideration of women and minor
ities to such areas, but should actively re
cruit them for any position to which they 
may be qualified. Higher Educational 
Guidelines, H.E.W., 1972.
On Wednesday, April 17, in room 45 of 
Skibo from 10:00 till 5:00, there will be an 
open hearing of Pennsylvanias Affirmative 
Action guidelines. Sponsored by the Pa. 
Department of Education, C-MU will host 
this event. Women and minority groups 
will be in attendance.
Ms. Jane Thompson, formerly Director 
of the Citizenship Information Center at 
the University of Pittsburgh, is currently 
running for the State Senate in the 38th 
Senatorial District of Western Pennsyl
vania. Her opponant in the Democratic 
Primary is the incumbent senator whose 
record includes voting for the Pension Bill, 
the anti-Abortion bill, and the Capital 
Punishment bill and against the Child-Care 
bill. Anyone interested in working for Ms. 
Thompsons campaign should call 
681-6850.
BNAI BRITH HILLEL-JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
DINING CLUB
Now is the time to join or inquire about Fall 1974 
for students on all university campuses 
A meal plan to fit every student 
Meal tickets for those with irregular schedules 
Sabbath dinners
315 S. Bellefield Avenue (across from Heinz Chapel) 
621-8875
WIN CASH
Night at the Races
Saturday April 13th 8:00 P.M. 
Wherrett Room  Skibo Hall 
WIN $$ CASH $$ WIN $$ CASH WIN $$
Theres no easy way for Charlie Nelson to become Dr. Nelson.
But there is a way to make it somewhat easier. 
Our way. The Armed Forces Health Professions 
Scholarship Program. It wont soften the demands 
of your professors, or those you make upon yourself 
but it may free you from those financial problems 
which, understandably, can put a crimp in your concentration.
If you qualify, our scholarship program will cover 
the costs of your medical education. More, youll receive a good monthly allowance all through your schooling.
But what happens after you graduate?Then, as a health care officer in the military 
branch of your choice you enter a pVofessional 
environment that is challenging, stimulating and satisfying.
An environment which keeps you in contact with 
practically all medical specialties Which gives you 
the time to observe and learn before you decide on 
your specialty. Which may present the opportunity 
to train in that specialty. And to practice it.
You may also find some of the most advanced 
medical achievements happening right where you 
work. Like at the Brooke Army Medical Center in 
San Antonio, Texas, long noted for its Burn Treat
ment Center. Or the home of Flight Medicine, the 
famed Aerospace Medical Division, also in San
Antonio. Or the National Naval Medical Center in 
Bethesda. Maryland, recognized worldwide for its work in Medical Research.
And if you've read this far, you may be interested 
in the details. Just send in the coupon and we'll supply them.
Z-CN-44Armed Forces Scholarships Box A
Universal City, Texas 78148
I desire infirmation for the following program: Army [ 
Navy ? Air Force Q Medical/Osteopathic ? Dental I Veterinary* ? Podiatry ? Other (please specify)
Name ______
Soc. Sec #___
Address______
City__________
State_________
Enrolled at____
To graduate in_ 
Date of birth__
(please print)
_Zip_
(month)
(month)
(school)
(yearr
(day)
(degree)
(year)
LVeterinary not available in Navy Program.
ARMED FORCES HEALTH CARE
DEDICATED TO MEDICINE AND THE PEOPLE WHO PRACTICE IT

---------------------------------------------------

 p T m/\ 5 I
THE TARTAN-Tuesday, April 9,1974-Page 9
Male Subjugation-Libration
mR EaAuwo WPuxrw
Warren Farrell, an advocate of male con
sciousness and the author of Beyond Mas
culinity, spoke about the masculine value 
system and male roles in this society at the 
Every Other Tuesday Afternoon Forum on 
March 19. Farrell said that he discovered 
male subjugation when he examined 
societal sex roles for men in the same way 
that the womens movement looks at fe
male sex roles in society. He described men 
as success objects who strive for external 
rewards in the masculine value system, and 
indicated that although men see themselves 
as problem-solvers. many men fail to solve 
their own personal or emotional problems.
He pointed out that the male need for 
security causes many men to strive for the 
comfortable niche of professionalism or ex
pertise to get beyond any challenge from 
laymen. He explained that men in our 
present value system seem to have a con
tempt for women and try to disassociate 
themselves from anything feminine, in
cluding the feminine parts of their person
alities. He suggests male consciousnessraising groups as one way men can get back 
in touch with themselves and see beyond 
societys dictate of success.
Because unemployment is one manifest
ation of the male fear of failure, Farrell 
said that men use education not for per
sonal fulfillment nor to satsify intellectual 
needs, but very often to learn only what 
will help them to succeed. He said men 
feel that they beat the system by scoring a
4.0 or developing very marketable leader
ship abilities, but instead the system is 
manipulating them by molding the male 
character to the success game.
Farrell mentioned that male resignation 
to the success object value system first 
occurs in college when men choose their 
majors or fields of specialization. He be
lieves that just as men choose profession
alism as a cover for their security needs, 
another example of men disguising in
security with authority is the typical male 
question: the loaded question (the quest
ion which sets up the desired answer). Far
rell noticed that women will readily admit 
that they dont know the answers, and will 
frame a question as simply as: Will you 
please explain how that works? Men, on 
the other hand, give the pretense of know
ledge, even if its only a guess, and will 
frame the question to imply the answer 
they expect, such as It works like this, 
doesnt it?
Farrell stressed the need to break down 
the male assumption that what men learn 
in their roles as men is somehow superior 
to what women learn in their roles as 
women. He laughed as he mentioned that 
women may smoke Marlboros, but you 
wouldnt find men smoking Eves. He 
pointed out how leadership ability and 
forcefulness seem to be especially de
veloped in men and that men are trained to 
be articulate speakers and snap-decisionmakers. He mentioned that in the hiring 
process the male projection of confidence 
and certainty win out over the listening 
abilities which many women have de
veloped. Although careful listening is a 
valuable technique for marketing or sales 
positions, especially when dealing directly 
with the public, Farrell maintains that 
women are going to have to develop the 
forceful character qualities that men value 
if they want to enter a non-traditional 
career.
Because men are caught up in their roles
Birdy Gains 
County Title
as bread-winner, problem-solver, and selfconfident leader, Farrell remarked that 
men are unwilling to let go of those 
images to become introspective. For this 
reason, Farrell noticed, men drift into un
personal, crutch topics of conversation like 
politics, sports, or business, rather than dis
cuss emotional or personal problems. Far
rell said that many men agree with his 
observation that few men make close 
friends after college days. Farrell believes 
that because society discourages men from 
admitting their mistakes or their weak
nesses, some men try to maintain the Iam-always-right appearance to avoid con
fronting their basic insecurities or fear of 
failure.
The last part of Farrells lecture con
cerned his experiments with role reversal 
and male-consciousness raising groups. He 
feels these are the means whereby men can 
get back in touch with themselves, lose 
their contempt for women, and come into 
contact with the feminine parts of our per
sonalities. His role reversal experiment at 
Georgetown University consisted of a 
simulated date experience where the 
women had to ask the men for a date. 
Farrell found his own reactions in this 
situation startling and found that when he 
was placed in the womans position, the 
position where he had no power to choose 
his date, he reverted to the indirect 
methods women use to attract the man 
they want. He said he began to wink at 
the woman he wanted to ask him out. He 
also noticed how deeply the experiment 
delved into role reversal, and when a 
woman other than the one he had wanted 
to go out with asked him for the date, he 
felt obliged to accept and thus protect her 
ego. Farrell concluded from his experience 
with passivity and role reversal that the 
experiment not only de-activated his sexual 
impulses, but made it easier for him to 
resist sexual involvement with his
date. Farrell conducted another role ex
periment by inviting both a male and fe
male consciousness-raising group for a 
larger group discussion. He mentioned only 
two necessary conditions for this experi
ment: that there are an equal number of 
men and women present and that both 
groups consider the discussion serious. He 
found that men dominate the conversation 
with each male averaging a talk-time of 
twenty minutes as compared to one minute 
of talk-time for each woman. Farrell also 
discovered the phenomena of male self
listening, and said that although men may 
approvingly nod during a conversation, 
more often than not men are pre-occupied 
with their own thoughts, preparing their 
next response to the speaker. Farrell also 
mentioned that men have much less eye 
contact in a conversation than do women, 
and that the conversation topics often drift 
into areas that men feel secure talking 
about.
As for himself, Farrell admits that he 
finds consciousness-raising groups and male 
liberation personally freeing. He attri
butes his new freedom also to his wife, and 
says that her career has released him from 
the clockwork executive and harried 
bread-winner syndrome. For these reasons 
Farrell says that he now speaks up more at 
faculty meetings, and without the job 
security fears, he has been much more 
creative in his work, and more willingly 
experiments. He wistfully said: I dont 
know the answers, but recommends role 
equalization, and both male and female 
liberation from specialization. If all goes 
well, as Farrell hopes, the jack-of-all-trades 
may receive a little more respect from 
society. Farrell suggests that adults become 
role models who will teach children that 
the traditional roles are gone and that there 
are plenty of options for them. Lastly, 
with an eye to the future, Farrell amusing
ly notes: the next movement will be 
generation liberation.
Earl J. Birdy, Director of Intramural 
Athletics, has been named chairman of Red 
Cross Water Safety Services in Allegheny 
County.
In addition to his work as physical edu
cation and swimming instructor at CMU, 
Mr. Birdy has served Allegheny County as a 
volunteer teaching senior life saving, 
swimming for the handicapped, first aid, 
small craft and in January served as cochairman of the WSI Clinic.
Mr. Birdy is a graduate of Slippery Rock 
State Teachers College and holds a masters 
degree in education from the University of 
Pittsburgh.
Shadyside Presbyterian Church
AMBERSON, OFF 5th AVE. 682-4300
SUNDAY:
9:00 Worship Service 
9:30 Learning community (odults 
and children)
10:30 Community Worship 
Celebration 
11:00 Worship Service
Ms. Nano Chalfant, Campus Staff
Is stealing a
ince call worth
a criminal record?
The use of phoney credit cards, electronic devices or any other means to avoid 
paying for phone calls is against the law. Its stealingpure and simple.
In this state, conviction for making fraudulent phone calls may result in:
 A fine of up to $15,000
 Up to seven years in jail
 Restitution for the total cost of the fraud
 Court costs
 A permanent criminal record
One more thing: modern electronic computer systems are being used to track down 
offenders.
The penalties may seem harsh. But the cold fact remains that the law does not look 
on phone fraud as a lark. ^
(g) Bell of Pennsylvania

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, April 9, 1974
Panic Hits CMU Campus
MAY 19 74
SMTWTFs
1
EX;
2
VMINATI
3
ON PERI
4
O D
5
6
Final Exan or Classes a in Fin
7
nations s Scheduled e Arts8
9
All Grades Due8 :30 A. M.1011
12
13
Commencement1415161718
A
KEY
8:30-11:30 am.
B1:30-4:30 pm.
C7-10 pm.
D9:30-10:30 am.
E6:30-9:30 pm.
F9:30-11:30 am.
G10:3012:30
H9:00-10:30 am.
I12:30-4:30 pm.
ADMINISTRATION AND MANAGEMENT SCIENCE
70-101Elem. of Indust. Adm. ASat 4
BSat 4
70-121Quant. Controls I AMon 6
BMon 6
70-123Accounting for Mgt.Wed 1
70-142Math, for Mgt. Sci. 11Sat 4
70-144Math. For Management IIMon 6
70-214Administrative ActionThu 2
70-312Organizational Behav. IIWed 1
70-324Statistics for Mgt. 11Wed 1
70-333Econ. Growth & Fluct. AMon 6
BMon 6
70-361Foundations of LawThu 2
70-371Production IFri 3
70-363Law in Mod. Amer. SocTue 7
7a 391Finance I A
Wed 1 
Thu 2 
Wed 1
BWed 1
70-393Financial AnalysisThu 2
70-404Management GameThu 2
70-444Appi. Mgt. Sei. Bus. Prob.Mon 6
70-463Ideas & Changing Environ.Tue 7
70-471Production IIFri 3
70-481Marketing 11Thu 2
70-483Adv. Se. in MarketingWed 1
70-491Finance IIWed 1
BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES
03-130General GeneticsTo be arr.
03-131Biochemistry ITue 2
03-733Biochemistry IIIWed 1
CHEMICAL ENGINEERING
06-101Intro, to Chemical Engr.Fri 3
06-202Chemical Engineering IIIFri 3
06-204Process ThermodynamicsSat 4
06-310Transport PhenomenaWed 1
CHEMISTRY
09-104Intro. Life Science Chem.Fri 3
09-105Elem. Phys. Chem. Princ.To be arr.
09-106Bonding & Struct. Princ.Mon 6
09-117Organic Chemistry 1To be arr.
09-132Exper. Tech. in Chem. IIMon 6
09-142Physical Chemistry 1Mon 6
A
A
B
B
C
B
C
C
B
C
A
A
B
A
A
B
A
B
BH 231 
BH 232F 
BH 232F 
DH 1212 
IA 213 
BH 129A, 
129D 
IA 225 
IA 8 
MM 14 
IA 8
BH 129A 
BH 129D 
PH 100 
BH 129 A 
129D
IA Aud 
IA Aud 
IA Aud 
BH 129A 
BH 129D 
IA 213 
IA 11 
IA 9 
IA 9
BH 129A 
BH 129A 
IA 11 
BH 129 A
MM 14
Ml 355
DH 1112 
DH 1112 
DH 2315 
DH 1112
DH 2315
DH 2210
DH 2210 
DH 1112
CIVIL ENGINEERING
12-102Intro. To Engr. ModellingMon 6BBH 231
12-104Systems Engineering IISat 4BPH 123H
12-211Solid Mechanics ITo be arr.
12-325Soil MechanicsThu 2BPH 123H
12-621Structural Mechanics IIMon 6BPH 123H
12-631Computer Meth. in C.E.Fri 3APH 123H
12-627Foundation EngineeringSat 4BPH 123B
12-637Urban Engr. Issues & Prob.Wed 1BPH 123H
12-638Urban Trans. Issues & Prob.Sat 4APH 123H
COMPUTER SCIENCE
15-100Prog. & Prob. Solving IFri 3AGym
15-102Computer Science IFri 3ASH 125
15-210Prog. & Prob. Solving II M,! Fri 3ASCH 7500
15-220Programming SystemsTo be arr.
DRAMA
54-168History of CostumeThu 210-12MM 14
ECONOMICS
73-100Econ. Anal. Con. Prob. IThu 2ADH 2210
73-100TEcon Anal. Con. Prob. IThu 2CIA 8
Mon 6CIA 9
73-150Econ. Anal. Con. Prob. IIThu 2CIA 225
73-200Economic. Growth & Flue.Mon 6ABH 129D
73-200TEconomic Growth & Flue.Tue 7CIA 213
73-250Res. Alloc. In Mkt. Econ.Tue 7BBH 231
73-360Manpower Econ. & Pol. Iss.Mon 6CIA 11
73-458Spec. Topics in EconomicsThu 2ADH 1112
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
18-100Electrical Engineering AThu 2ASCH 7500
18-102Electrical Engineering CTue 7ASCH 7500
18-114Electrical Engineering 11AFri 3BSH 125
18-204Fields, Waves & Trans. LinesWed 1BSH 212
18-212Linear Systems AnalysisThu 2BDH 2210
18-224Phys. Materials & Electron.Sat 4BSCH 7500
18-234Adv. Computer SystemsSat 4ASCH 7500
18-310Info. & Communications Theo.Fri 3BSCH 7500
18-341Electro-Mech. Energy Conv.Thu 2EPH 125D
ENGINEERING AND PUBLIC AFFAIRS
19-201 Appl. of Oper. Research 
ENGLISH
To be arr.
76-199Literary Imagination AWed 1BBH 235 A
BWed 1BPH 126 B
CWed 1BBH 255 A
DWed 1BBH 229 B
EWed 1BPH 225 B
FWed 1BPH 226 C
GWed 1BPH 226 A
HWed 1BBH 235 B
IWed 1BPH 225 C
JWed 1BBH 132 H
KWed 1BPH 211
LMWed 1BBH 245
NWed 1BPH 226 B
OWed 1BBH 132F
76-201Biblical Myth. BackgroundThu 2ABH 255A
76-260Modern British LiteratureThu 2BBH 232F
76-271American RenaissanceMon 6ABH 235A
76-281African-American Lit.Wed 1BBH 229E
76-321Shakespeare ATue 7ABH 235B
BTue 7ABH 235A
76-38020th Century Amer. AuthorsTue 7BBH 245
76-3912oth Century Europ. AuthorsWed 1BPH 126C
76-401English Novel IIFri 3BBH 235B
76-404Fiction By & About Pghrs.Sat 4APH 211
76-407Contemporary Novel a AWed 1BMM 104
BWed 1BPH 126A

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, April 9, 1974Page 11
76-411Intro. Rdg. Poetry Sh. Fct.Mon 6ABH 255A
77
76-424Continental DramaThu 2ABH 235B
3-501Survey of Genres 11To be arr.
76-511Fiction WorkshopThu 2BBH 235B
76-513Fiction WorkshopFri 3APH 255B
76-531Poetry Workshop 11Sat 4ABH 255A
76-533Poetry Workshop IVSat 4BBH 255B
76-560Exposition IIWed 1APH 226A
76-606Tchg. Dev. Rdg. & WritingFri 3BBH 255A
76-631Computer in Lit. & Ling.Thu 2BBH 255A
76-640Public SpeakingSat 4BBH 231
3-662History-Literature SeminarTue 7ABH 231
76-673Film ArtSat 4APH 100
76-681Mystics & Visionary PoetsWed 1BPH 215
HISTORY AND PHILOSOPHY
79-102Shaping of West. Civ. 11Sat 4BPH 100
79-103American CivilizationSat 4ASH 125
79-244Crime in American HistoryMon 6BMM 14
79-291Twentieth Century AmericaMon 6ASH 125
V 9-362History & Lit. Latin Amer.Sat 4BMM 14
79-413Prob. in European HistoryFri 3APH 100
79-428History & Lit. of RussiaTo be arr.
79-464Men & Ideas in Mid. AgesWed 1ASCH 7500
79-512Computer Hist. Sch. & Tchg.Wed 1BBH 231
79-515Science in Our CultureTo be arr.
79-530Dev. of Arts Mod. WorldSat 4BBH 232F
79-579History-Literature SeminarTue 7ABH 231
79-65220th Century PhilosophyMon 6BPH 100
$9-653Introduction to LogicFri 3BPH 100
tarnApial9a,1ar7p4
39-113Physics of Musical SoundThu 2ADH 2315
39-404Cost Benefit AnalysisThu 2ADH 1112
MATHEMATICS
21-104Fund, of Mathematics IIWed 1ADH 2315
21-112Physics-Calculus 11Tue 7AGym
21-121Calculus 1Fri 3BSCH 5310
21-122Calculus 11Fri 3BGym
21-123Intro, to Calculus IIFri 3BGym
21-141Linear AlgebraThu 2AGym
21-142Foundations of AnalysisMon 6APH 100
21-150Discrete StructuresSat 4ASCH 5320
21-223Linear Anal. & Diff. Equ. 1Fri 3BSCH 5419
21-224Linear Anal. & Diff. Equ. IJSat 4AGym
21-255Advanced Calculus 1Wed 1ASCH 5403
iy21-256Advanced Calculus IISat 4AGym
21-258High. Math Soc. & Mgr. IISat 4ADH 2315
21-259High. Math. E. & S. 1Sat 4ADH 2210
21-260High. Math E. & S. IIWed 1ADH 2210
21-274Modern Algebra IIWed 1BSCH 5316
21-311ComputabilitySat 4BSCH 5403
21-371Funct. of Complex Var.Mon 6BSCH 5419
21-450Intro, to TopologyFri 3ASCH 5320
21-485Mathematical ModelsSat 4ASCH 5310
21-489Topics in Network TheoryTue 7BSCH 5310
'21-490History of MathematicsWed 1APH 100
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
24-102Statics of Deform. SolidsWed 1.BSH 206 
220
24-112Fluid Mechanics IMon 6BSH 125
24-121ThermodynamicsThu 2ESH 324
24-141Statics and DynamicsWed 1BSH 125 
224,422
24-150Engineering Analysis ITo be arr.
24-160 EngEngineering Graphics Sec. TThu 2ESH 422
UThu 2EPH 225C
VWed 1EPH 225C
24-216Gas DynamicsWed 1BSH 324
24-223Thermodynamics IIThu 2BSH 125
24-224Thermal Systems AnalysisSat 4BSH 422
24-226Fuel & Energy UtilizationMon 6BSH 206
24-246Feedback Control SystemsWed 1ESH 125
-'24-291Engineering EconomicsFri 3ASH 212
METALLURGY AND MATERIALS SCIENCE
27-104Engineering AnaylsisThu 2BDH A317
27-131Materials ScienceWed 1ASH 125
27-227Process MetallurgyFh 3All dayDH A213
27-433Mech. Behavior of Matls. IWed 1BDH A317
27-516Special TopicsFri 3BSCH 4327
27-518Non-Metallic MaterialsFri 3ADH A317
MODERN LANGUAGES
82-102Elementary FrenchTue 7BBH 232D
82-107Programmed FrenchTo be arr.
82-122Elementary GermanThu 2ABH 232E
82-123Programmed GermanTue 7ABH 232E
82-136Int. German III: Conv.To be arr.
82-138German Colloq: Lit. I mag.Wed 1BBH 232D
82-142Elementary SpanishTo Be arr.
82-143Programmed SpanishTo be arr.
82-162Elementary RussianTue 7BBH 232E
82-164Rdg. in Russian LiteratureSat 4BBH 235A
82-272Contemp. French TheatreMon 6BBH 232D
82-172Elementary ItalianSat 4ABH 232E
82-283Studies in French Lit.Fri 3BBH 232E
82-302German Conv. & Comp.Wed 1BBH 232E
82-360German Lit. of 19th Cen.Thu 2BBH 232E
82-485History & Lit. Latin Amer.Sat 4BMM 14
82-585History & Lit. of RussiaTo be arr.
82-630Transl. Workshop: GermanWed 1ABH 232E
82-650Transl. Workshop: RussianMon 6BBH 232E
MUSIC
57-110Elementary TheoryTo be. arr.
57-122Fresh. Comp. SeminarFri 3BFA 160
57-152Harmony & Con. Tech I Sec. AMon 61FA 157
BMon 62:30-4:30FA 157
CMon 61FA 160
57-154Harmony & Con. Tech. II Sec ASat 41FA 160
BSat 41FA 157
57-162Eurythmics I Sec. AFri 3AMM 119
BFri 3GMM 119
CFri 31MM 119
57-164Eurythmics IITue 7BMM 119
57-172Intro, to MusicThu 2BMM 215
57-174History of Music IThu 2AMM 103
57-182Ear Tr. & Sight Sing I Sec AThu 21FA 160
Sec BThu 22:30-4:30FA 160
Sec CThu 21FA 157
57-184Ear Tr. & Sight Sing II Sec AThu 21FA 107
Sec BThu 22:30-4:30FA 107
57-204History of Music 11Wed 1BMM 103
57-256Harm. & Con. Tech. IllMon 62:30-4:30FA 160
57-25820th Century TechniquesFri 3BFA 157
57-266Counterpoint IIThu 21ExH
57-268Composition IThu 29:30-11:30 MM 103
57-375Elementary MethodsSat 42:30-4:30FA 160
57-408Form and AnalysisThu 22:30-4:40FA 157
57-446Instrumental MethodsFri 39:30-11:30 ExH
57-448Score ReadingTue 7BFA 160
57-606Voice ClassSat 49:30-11:30FA 160
57-608
PHYSICS
Voice ClassWed 1BFA 160
33-106Intro, to Phys. of MatterMon 6BSCH 7316
33-110Physical Mechanics IWed 1BSCH 5310
33-112Physics-Calculus IITue 7AGym
33-116Introductory PhysicsThu 2BSCH 7500
33-121Physics IThu 2BDH 2315
33-122Physics 11Thu 2BGym
33-123* Physics IIITue 7BDH 2315
33-124Physics IVMon 6ADH 2315
33-125Basics of AstronomyTo be arr
33-134Modern Physics ITue 7BDH 2210
33-438Intermed. Elec. & Mag.Thu 2BSCH 5310
33-442Intro. Stat. PhysicsThu 2BSCH 6423
33-444Intro, to Nuclear Phys.Fri 3ASCH 5328
33-446Wave MechanicsWed 1BSCH 5302
33-448Intro to Solid St. Phy.Tue 7BSCH 5320
PSYCHOLOGY AND EDUCATION
5-150Psychology of AdjustmentTo be arr.
85-211Cognitive PsychologyTo be arr.
85-251Intro, to PersonalityTue 7BPH 100
85-313Human Learning & Comp. Beh.Fri 3B~ BH 340A
85-337MotivationTo be arr.
SOCIAL RELATIONS
88-101Social Analysis IMon 6ASCH 7500
88-105Finite Mathematics IIThu 2BMM 320
88-231Power Structures & Or. Act.Sat 4BMM 320
88-238Careers & OccupationsTue 7BMM 320
88-240Appl. of Operations Rsch.To be arr.
88-241Mobility & MiqrationFri 3BMM 104
STATISTICS
36-211Prob. & Appi. Stat. 1Tue 7BSCH 7500
36-212Prob. & Appi. Stat. 11Tue 7A* DH 2210
36-216Probability & Stat. IITo be arr.
36-219Stat. Meth. Data Anal. 1Tue 7BSCH 5419
36-220Stat. Meth Data Anal. IIMon 6BSCH 7500

---------------------------------------------------

Pape 12THE TARTAN-Tuesday, April 9, 1974
New Editors Elected
Steven Correll has been elected by a 
unanimous vote as the next TARTAN edi
tor-in-chief. Steve is a junior electriJd 
engineering student He has been a member 
of the news features staff for two years and 
has written extensively on Student Senate. 
He served as news editor during 1973.
When asked to comment on why a stu
dent in the College of Engineering and Sci
ence was going to serve as TARTAN editor 
Correll responded, I would like to prove 
that being an engineer doesnt preclude be
ing a public citizen. Correll also stated 
that he was impressed that people really 
read, even though they criticize, the 
TARTAN. He plans to keep it (the
TARTAN) a paper that people criticize 
constantly but also the kind of paper that 
people read.
The individual staffs have also elected 
Debbie Siegel as the next news editor, 
David Cates and Greg McKenna as co
features editors Mark Chimsky as enter
tainment editor, John Shettel as photo
graphy editor and Glenn Cambell as sports 
editor. Gary Singer and Lester Nathan will 
be remaining as managing editor and busi
ness manager respectively.
The new editorial board will take office 
as of the last issue of this semester which 
will be published on April 23.
GIRLS ARE YOU LOOKING FOR A SUMMER COUNSELOR POSITION?
Applicants are now being considered for the 1974 camp season. Must be 
able to teach one of the following: Theater Director, Piano Accompanist 
and singing, Archery, Tennis, Tennis Director, Golf, Trampoline, Riflery 
(N.R.A.), Scouting and Nature Study, A.R.C. Swimming Instructor, 
Boating, Canoeing and Water Skiing Instructor or General Athletics. 
Secretary and Bookkeeper also needed.
Write Camp Director, 2409 Shelleydale Drive, Baltimore, Md. 21209.
Stud en tW riten
Anthony Adler 
Paul Barrv
George Evans
Stephen Hamm
Reading from their own work 
Thursday, April 11, 3:30 p.m. Wherret room
TheyKhypOn Da cDO ig21gKn pOaiOw)
J
Its free. Send for it: Nutrition, Pueblo, Colorado 81009.
th
A Public Service of This Newspaper & The Advertising Council 
U.S. Department of Aflncultufe and Health. Education. & Welfare 
Grocery Mern/tectu/ers ot Amenes
 PRINTED AS A SERVICE OF 
THE CMU TARTAN
DONT SEND YOUR KIDS TO SCHOOL UNTIL YOU READ THIS BOOK.This is your key to unprecedented calculating
capacity. Only Hewlett-Packard offers it
It lets you speak to your calculator with total consistency, because 
it lets you load data into a 4-Register Stack. This means: (1) you always 
enter and process your data the same way, no matter what your problem; 
(2) you dont have to re-enter data; (3) you can see all intermediate data anytime.
Our HP-45 is one of two pre-programmed scientific pocket-^ized 
computer calculators with this key. Thats one reason its the most pow
erful pre-programmed pocket-sized scientific computer calculator. Here are three of many others:
1. Its pre-programmed to handle 44 arithmetic, trigonometric and
logarithmic functions and data manipulation operations beyond the basic four ( + ,x, +). ;
2. It lets you store nine constants in its nine Addressable Memory 
Registers, and it gives you a Last X Register for error correction or multiple operations on the same number.
3. It displays up to 10 significant digits in either fixed-decimal or 
scientific notation and automatically positionsthe decimal point throughout its 200-decade range.
Our HP-35 is the other. It handles 22 functions, has one Addressable 
Memory Register and also displays up to 10 digits neither fixed-decimal 
or scientific notation. Its the second most powerful pre-programmed pocket-sized scientific computer calculator.
Botti of these exceptional instruments are on display now. If youre 
looking for unprecedented calculating capacity for your money, by all means see and test them.
If thishwwekclacfd pcahr woh pnrwHEWLETT jw PACKARD cdBculhd AnlahwerDIhd lnpAPwhf f lcslPscwnfr Du woh infsdm
CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIV. BOOKSTORE
SCHENLEY PARK, PITTSBURGH, PA. 15213 
(412) 621-2600

---------------------------------------------------

tartan graphies
THE TARTANTuesday, April 9, 1974Page 13
THIS SCHEDULE IS PRINTED AS A SERVICE OF THE CARNEGIEMELLON UNIVERSITY TARTAN
C. s**;:
V <    
 
  
 
Thursday, April 1 8
11:00 am 
5:30 pm 
5:30 pm 
8:30 pm 
10:00 pm 
12:00 pm
F riday, April 19
Sweepstakes Design Judging 
Midway Opens 
Jazz Band Concert 
Scotch 'n Soda 
Fireworks Display 
Midway Closes
Gym
Skibo Parking Lot 
Skibo Parking Lot 
Skibo Ballroom 
Football Stadium
ft
ALL THE KINGS MEN 
4:30,7:00,9:30 -DH 2210
9:00 amSweepstakes PreliminaryBuggy CourseDR. ZHIVAGO
12:00 pmPicnicI.M. Field2:00, 6:00, 10:00
12:00 pmKite Flying ContestI.M. Field
1:00 pmFrisbee TournamentFootball FieldLAST PICTURE SHOW
2:00 pmWomen's RelaysFootball Field4:00, 6:30, 9:00, 11:30
2:00 pmArts & Crafts Festival OpensSkibo Sidewalk
2:00 pmMidway OpensSkibo Parking Lot
3:00 pmFaculty Egg TossFootball Field
4:00 pmMen's RelaysFootball Field
7:00 pmArts & Crafts Festival Closes
8:30 |bmScotch 'n Soda: Skibo BwHroom iu 3 *1110 e
9:00 pmSDS DanceThistle Hall
10:00 pmMidway Closes
DH 2210
PH 100
Saturday, April 20
9:00 amSweepstakes FinalsBuggy CourseDR. ZHIVAGO
12:00 pmArts & Crafts Festival OpensSkibo Sidewalk2:00, 6:00, 10:00
1:00 pmMidway OpensSkibo Parking Lot
1:30 pmPlank JoustLawn Opposite MidwayLAST PICTURE SHOW
3:30 pmWater Balloon BattleFootball Field4:00, 6:30,9:00, 11:30
6:00 pmArts & Crafts Festival Closes
8:30 pmScotch 'n SodaSkibo Ballroom
8:30 pmAB Concert-John Sebastian & 
Howdy MooneCarnegie Musrc Half
9:00 pmMidway Closes
11:30'pmAwards PresentationsSkibo Sidewalk
Sunday, Apri| 21
DH 2210
PH 10C
I
>
ANIMATION SERIES 
7:00^.9:30Wherrlett Rc

---------------------------------------------------


'age 14-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, April 9, 1974
Entropys New Addition:
Milk
ontinued from page 1
Hill. There will be a strict refund policy. It 
vill be necessary to prove the record is 
iefective and it may be exchanged only for 
the same record.
The store has added many new items 
;ince it was opened. It is now handling 
nilk. It did not originally sell milk because 
t is a high risk item. If it does not sell 
mmediately and spoils, the store must take 
he loss, and to stock it would have been 
n unnecessary risk for a new establishnent. Other new items include comic 
>ooks, sweat shirts, penny candy, frisbees 
nd Spring Carnival T-shirts. The store also 
ashes personal checks for any amount up
o $10, but there is a 25 cent service 
harge.photo by John Rose
IF
Saturday, April 20 
8:30 pm
Carnegie Music Hall
All tickets $4.50 at the door
Reserved tickets are 
$3.50 with a college ID 
$4.50 without 
Available at the Skibo Info Desk 
Pitt Student Union
TheCMU
if
?
*

1

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, April 9, 1974-Page 15
oWRCT Takes Time Off
mR Eekko Wwuukdd
WRCT will probably not resume FM 
broadcasting this semester, and will return 
to AM just long enough to cover Spring 
< Carnival.
The stations FM experiment halted a 
week after it began when the station dis
covered it had failed to submit to the FCC 
forms reporting the name of its new Tech
nical Director, a slight change in antenna 
position, and a change of transmitter.
A lot of blame has been heaped on the
students in WRCT and some probably 
should be accepted there ... Director of 
Student Activities Robert McCurdy told 
Student Senate last week. But McCurdy 
also noted that the Student Government 
corporation, which handles the legal 
aspects of FM conversion for the station, 
has been handicapped by the lack of funds 
to hire a lawyer. He said some people have 
expressed surprise that the station and cor
poration cpuld hope to have progressed 
this far without paid counsel.
In response to questions from senators.
McCurdy said that FCC permission to re
sume broadcasting could come within a 
month but that he didnt think that was 
very likely. The procedures are very bur
eaucratic, he said.
WRCT will not resume full time AM 
broadcasting of the type that occurred 
prior to the conversion although Frank 
Napoli, General Manager, said there are no 
technical problems to reverting to AM pro
gramming. The staff is really disappointed 
and frustrated and theres not enough en
thusiasm to broadcast all the time, he 
said.
CAMPUS 
INTERVIEWS
for Masters & 
Doctoral level students 
interested in 
Educational Evaluation
interview date: April 18, 9-12 a.m.
Evaluation Research Center 
School of Education 
University of Virginia
contact: placement office 
for details
activities Board PresentsI--------------1
i\i
John
Sebastian
with Howdy Moone

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16THE TARTAN-Tuesday, April 9, 1974
UFW Issues, On and Off Campus
mR lw ExapAueq
"'The United Farmworker contracts ex
pired in 1973. The Farm Growers refused 
to negotiate with the UFW, thereby ignit
ing a clash. The reason they would not 
negotiate with the UFW is that they were 
too democratic and humanitarian-the 
Teamsters as representatives' were not 
concerned with giving farmworkers a voice 
or protecting them.
The working conditions are inhumane; 
at times workers have lost their jobs for 
leaving the fields to relieve themselves. 
Housing and medical care is almost nonexistant. Another issue concerning the 
UFW is pesticides. The growers often use 
illegal and fatal pesticides on the crops. 
As a result, we complained and got 
black-balled by the growers. When we 
went on strike, there were fights and kill
ings in the fields ...
The Teamsters want to represent the 
farmworkers, thereby complicating the 
problems. Thus, the UFW has to negotiate 
not only with the growers but with the 
Teamsters as well.
This is the way Barbara Macri, UFW 
Boycott organizer in Pittsburgh, describes 
the situation, and is the reason she gives for 
the present boycott of iceberg lettuce, 
grapes and Gallo wines. According to Ms. 
Macri, to break last summers strike the 
growers illegally immigrated poor Mexi
cans, as well as drawing their scabs from 
the urban poor in California. She maintains 
that newly immigrated Mexicans are ig
norant of the strike, but they become more 
informed and many join the UFW and the
strike.
Although many supermarkets and liquor 
stores in the U. S. and Montreal are 
sympathetic to the strike we have to get 
all of them, and so the UFW has situated 
members in cities across the country to 
facilitate the boycott.
The Pittsburgh UFW representatives 
came to the city with real nightmares over 
how we were going to reach so many 
people. but they express appreciation to 
the students who are very aware of the 
situation and are helping us to demand 
justice. In the quiet aftermath of campus 
agitation, students across the country have 
formed boycott committees on their camp
uses, particularly on the west coast^ 
States Ms. Macri! The'students are one of 
our biggest hopes. People are going to 
decide the fate of the UFW.
Students at four Pittsburgh schools, 
Pitt, Duquesne. Chatham and CarnegieMellon. have formed such committees. 
According to the farmworkers here, Pitts 
committee has seen the greatest success so 
far, as they have managed to have iceberg 
lettuce removed from their cafeteria.
The situation at Carnegie-Mellon is not 
really one of apathy. Shelley Burhans, head 
representative of the UFW for C-MU. came 
back from California last fall after having 
spent the summer there, and three days on 
the strike-lines. According to Ms. Burhans. 
Students, and the universities themselves, | 
are a necessary part of the movement in 
terms of disseminating information and 
facilitating an understanding of it . : . 
especially since students are-or at least 
used to be responsive to,.social problems 
of this, calibej......................................1 e
She states that the biggest concern ori  
this particular campus is Food Services use 
of iceberg lettuce. The C-MU boycott
group is concerned with three issues: 
getting the Teamster lettuce out of the 
cafeteria; forming picket lines at local 
stores; and increasing campus awareness of 
the problem.
Initially, we had more of a response 
from students and faculty who were willing 
to give their ears and their time than we'd 
expected. says Ms. Burhans, and we ob
tained almost one thousand signatures on 
recent petitions to get the Teamster pro
duce off campus. Weve talked to (Food 
Service Head) Ms. Cohen, whos been very 
sympathetic, and to Dean Swank. One con
cern he expressed was the Universitys 
taking a political stand' on the issue. The 
main problem seems to be, though, that 
most of the time (prices fluctuate) iceberg 
lettuce costs more than other brands ...
As a result, the C-MU Support Commit
tee is asking individuals to boycott the 
produce on the lines, as reduced consump
tion would allow Food Service to decrease 
their purchase of the Teamster produce. 
According to Ms. Burhans, We hope to 
arrange to have signs put up on the Food 
Service lines, identifying the non-union 
produce.
She talked about the national problems 
as well as the immediate campus concerns. 
Nationally one of the big problems right 
now is getting the media to pick up on this. 
Sometimes it seems certain stations and 
papers will cover a car theft before theyll 
mention that three million people are still 
resisting slavery in the land of the free!
On campus, its bringing people to
realize the importanc, to the farmworkers 
eventual freedom, of our boycotting the 
scab' produce.
She continued, In some respects, 
there's such an unrealistic-unfruitful, in the 
long run-division between education and 
the real world. The most immediate ex
ample I can give is what happened when 
the farmworkers were invited to address a 
literature course here last semester that was 
going to be studying The Grapes of Wrath. 
Half the class showed up which I suppose 
we are to take as a glorious sign since half
to me (the innocent always feel respon
sible, I guess), offering his theory that 
maybe why most students were in the liter
ature tVoauaase was to avoid the human prob
lems. That seems to me to be the ultimate 
contradiction in a university, particularly 
in an H&SS school . . .
But there are a lot of people here who 
are able to readand eat dinner with a 
conscience; weve found that a lot of 
people in this country do understand that, 
like the song says, there but for fortune. 
And with them, well win.
PRINTED AS A SERVICE OF THE CMU TARTAN
POLITICIANS WANTED!
The Student Senate has openings
for candidates in the following office's:
President of Senate
Graduate Senator(4 openings)
UFO(6 openings)
SDC(7 openings)
CCCP(3 openings)
Independent Undergraduate(1 opening)
Petitions due 5:00 P.M.fApril 11
at Skibo Information Desk
GRADUATE
SHOWS
HEWLETT GALLERY
CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITY
FONTAINE HUGHSON
APRIL 9-17 "
ROGER DUMAS
APRIL 18-26

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, April 9, 1974-Page 17
letters contd:
continued from page 3
Editor:
The purpose of this letter is to voice my 
deepest appreciation to the men of the 
CMU hockey team for playing a season 
that distinguished itself from the brand of 
hockey now being displayed in the Pitts
burgh area. Being from New England, Ive 
witnessed many styles of hockey, but none 
that approaches the all-consuming desire 
for brutality as I was exposed to this even
ing at the Civic Arena. If not for my longdevoted respect for the game of hockey 
and all it stands for, I would spew forth 
four-letter expletives in vivid, living color 
at my outrage over what is considered the 
game of hockey in this fine city. No one 
questions that this sport provides an arena 
of extreme physical contact that would 
rival any sports contest.Hockey would not 
be the most exhilerating spectator sport 
without its sanctioned violence; however, 
somewhere the line must be drawn that 
separates the game form the competitive, 
challenging sporting event it was designed 
to be from the possible legalized gang war
fare that it can evolve into. Perhaps most 
New England teams are sissies because they 
attejmpt to play with an artful restraint and 
delicacy of performance instead of openly 
intimidating the opponent for the pure 
pleasure of socking it to them. Perhaps the
possible ugliness. Each year the caliber of 
play of CMUs hockey team has bettered 
the previous years quality of teamwork;
next year we will be even better still. Our 
day will come and how sweet it will be. I 
understand that cliches are coming back in 
vogue; .. never forget, its not whether you 
win or lose, its how you play the game. 
Everyone at CMU should be proud of our 
men on skates who represent us with dig
nity and honor. Live long and prosper, dear 
hockey team!
Scott Kenworthy
Editor:
Do you feel logy? dragged-out, shivery, 
headachy, and you think youre over the 
hill?
Dont fret-its only CMUs energy 
strangle!
The first requests for energy savings 
were very common sense ones to turn 
lights off when offices, labs, classrooms 
were not in use, to keep thermostats down 
as low as possible without freezing the 
occupants, to use stairways rather than ele
vators as much as possible. Response from 
the occupants of Science Hall has been 
conscientious and cooperative. The next 
move was to reduce hallway lighting. 
Again, a good energy savings measure with 
good response.
Then, comes the clobber!
No less than 3 workers have been 
assigned to remove the flourescent lightbulbs to reduce lighting in offices, class
rooms, laboratories. It has been only with 
strong protest that lighting has not been 
taken from work areas (use of light meters 
was not used) and some complaints are 
coming from secretaries, students and 
faculty that there is insufficient light over 
their work area. In some areas so much 
lighting has been reduced that visitors do 
not have enough reading light. This creates 
a poor impression for the off-campus as 
well as on-campus visitors. The budget sav
ings in removing many of these bulbs is 
minimal. To top it off, it is rumored that 
the bulbs which have been removed are 
being thrown out!!!
But hold on, the worst is yet to come! 
If you have a body, then you have 
tissues. And if you have tissues, then you 
need air--oxygen. And if you dont have 
air, you may be heading for hypoxia. 
Look it up in Websters.
I walk into an office and see the secre
tary rubbing her fingers and I say, What 
are you doing with that Bunsen burner? 
Trying to get the circulation back into 
my fingers so I can type this energy re
search proposal for 300 million dollars.
In a classroom the professors fingernails 
have already turned blue and he cant hold 
the chalk to write the formulae for his 
lecture on the blackboard.
Check the energy recommendations col
umn in the March 21 issue of FOCUS and
youll see why youve been feeling pooped 
out before the day is hardly begun. ..
To Quote:
4. Install appropriate control and tim
ing devices to reduce the quantity of out
side air now being admitted into the air 
handling system feeding office spaces in 
Science Hall. and
5. Install special ducts and control de
vices in Science Hall to provide for the use 
of exhaust air from the office areas (what 
air?) as intake air for the laboratory areas.
Then, you say to yourself, Theres no 
air movement; thats why I feel beat and 
exhausted and have a constant headache; 
Im not over the hill after all. Well, you 
certainly are relieved to know you havent 
gone completely bananas and still have the 
spring of youth. But for how long, you 
say?
Wont somebody please help us on the 
Great Science Hall Titanic before we all go 
down with our Last Gasp!!!
A Friend
Wvealwaysthoughtyouwerea GoodNeighbor.
Nowprove
it.
(JoinUs.)
There are a lot of jobs to be 
done in this world helping people 
in trouble in pain, in distress 
American Red Cross takes on more 
of these iobs than anybody 
Surprised'7
+ The American Red Cross.
The Good Neighbor
APARTMENT 
TO SUBLET
May 16th or Juno 1st 
to Aug. 31st
Large beautifully furnished one bedroom 
opt., Oakland/Shadyside vicinity 
(Morewood Ave.) Grad. Student or Prof. 
Perspn(s) desired.
RENT NEGOTIABLE 
Phono: 687 2467 or 441-4*3 (ovos.)
I ,   * ,Akadama Mama says,
Be Nice to Mice
aThis weeks letter 
were kind of 
dull, but I did get 
a neat package.
It contained a home 
built mouse trap. Not 
one of those hurtful, snapper, killer. 
5 4 10 things. But a genuine cant-hurtvou-and -Fm-sorry-if-I-sea red-you kind 
of a thing. It was made of"scrap wood 
and window screen (see illus.t and I got 
a very together friend of mine to do-a 
blueprint and instructions. 1 also have 
a friend with a copy machine, so if youd 
like a copy of the plan just mail me the 
f-^ ^ mouse coupon. ,
of ice and lemon and orange slice. 
To make more just double, triple,or 
quadruple everything.
Listen to Mam, 
and pass the Akadama.
The wine vou can mix.
/V
\ /
Now that weve been nice 
to mice. Id like to give you a 
couple of my favorite Akadama 
recipes that will be nice to you.
THE VODKA DAM A
/
/N
r")-
un-<
jf_______
M ill t<>: le \ic 
!*< > Bo\ M' 
V. rdr- 1
'-7
\-
isw ekcl
\
\ ' 1
.. . J lull's V.mIi!- IS ni:vsuli.. Ca W_71Its almost harder to f  $ I
 \!:inui i>U .t* ln> a copy ofpronouncethan it i^tomake. 
Just mix oj\e part Akadama 
Red and one part Vodka, 
then add a twist lemon 
and a nicelv amount of ice.
s/
I 
I 
I
r\ tog rl* i ti: -ii<! - Mnrpnnt
Ion irti
Adn 
* t i : > 'I s.
//I I,
f I VkmJ.
rcSansoc csc DcKvo d
A bottle of Akadama 
Red. a pint ol club soda. I ^ | tJie\
1 i of a can of frozen lemon A pa^ -,n _ 
ade < once<rU ra*U , pli'ntA
Ji. i : j!> -*ov i;
;;,t j " p\ k<H!J tip ! h'
> V i I < i Ilk. I I I :iK'i ,
 II_|M
< ''I . ;ul
k< <1 Votl to
* .....

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, April 9, 1974
C-MU 
BOOKSTORE
BEGINS APRIL 9
008211. AUDUBON'S ANIMALS THE IM
PERIAL COLLECTION, by J. J. Audubon. 150 
of the finest Audubon animal paintings re
produced in full color for the first time since 
1848. Anecdotal, original text is included, plus 
accurate, modern natural history information. 9 
x 12. Orig. Pub. at $25.00. New, complete ed. 
only $6.95.
026821. WILD FLOWERS OF AMERICA. Ed.
by H. W. Rickett. 400 flowers in full color, from 
paintings by Mary Vaux Walcott, with additional 
paintings by Dorothy Falcon Platt. 400 wild 
flowers of North America, shown actual size in 
beautiful true-to-life color, with detailed de
scriptions and full information as to family, 
geographical range, environment in which found, 
etc. Encyclopedic work based on authoritative 
publication of the Smithsonian Institution. Orig. 
Pub. at $15.00. New, complete ed. only $6.95.
118165. BEAUTIFUL COOKING: THE FOUR 
SEASONS COOKBOOK. By Charlotte Adams. 
Special consultant, James Beard. 104 extra
ordinary full color photos. Gourmet delicacies 
from one of the world's great restaurants: The 
Four Seasons' recipes for Saddle of Veal Orloff, 
Cassoulet de Toulouse, Avocado Shrimp Louis, 
Zabaglione with Amaretti, etc., arranged in 
seasonal groups on colored paper in .a cookbook 
that is itself a work of art. 8% x 12. Pub. at 
$25.00. Only $12.95
119978. FAST FEASTS A COOKBOOK FOR 
HURRIED GOURMETS. by J. Van Bibber. 
Twenty varied menus for marvelous meals made 
quickly incl. a Sicilian spring feast of spaghetti 
with sardines & fennel, veal scallopine with 
lemon, gnocchi, salad, fruit and cheese, etc. Pub. 
at $7.95. Only $2.98.
K00287. THE NEW WEBSTER ENCYCLO 
PEDIC DICTIONARY OF THE ENGLISILANGUAGE including a dictionary of synpnymS 
and 12 supplementary reference secionns, pop
ular quotations, classical mythology, business law 
& finance, names, the story of America in 332 
pictures, 211 flags in color, biographies of the 
Presidents with their pictures in color, space age 
terms with 15 plates in color. More than 1400 
pages, large format. 8Vi x 11% over 3 inches 
thick, weighs over 5 lbs. Handsome leatherlike 
binding with simulated gold stamping and edges, 
head and footbands. Pub. at $39.95. Only $9.95.
120461. THE AMERICAN CULINARY 
SOCIETY'S LIBRARY OF STEP-BY-STEP 
COOKERY COOKING AND PRESERVING 
VEGETABLES, trans. by M. O. Comte. 48 full 
color illus. All the basic information required for 
preserving, incl. a detailed introduction, pre
serves, exotic preserves, cooking with cheese, 
more. Extra value import only $2.49.
117282. THE NEW WORLD ENCYCLOPEDIA 
OF COOKING. Ed. by staff of Culinary Arts 
Institute. Over 1250 illus., incl. 16 full color 
plates. Superb dishes to titillate your taste buds: 
Crepes in cheesh sauce, eggplant with shrimp 
stuffing, meltaway whipped cream cake, 
hundreds more in a massive volume of recipes, 
hints, charts, etc. 111/2 x 9. 21/z thick. Reduced to 
only $7.95
L06476. POPULAR ITALIAN COOKERY. By
M. Howells. 32 Gorgeous photos in full color. 
Over 100 mouth-watering, easy-to-follow recipes 
for the best Italian dishes: Lasagne al Forno, 
Zuppa Pavese, the extraordinary dessert 
Zabaglione, etc. Extra value import only $2.98
028093. QUICK AND EASY MEALS FCR
TWO. by L. G. Shouer. Over 200 delicious 
meals prepared in no time with these 5 00 
time-saving, kitchen-tested recipes for young 
marrieds, career women, working wives and busy 
homemakers. Orig. Pub. at $3.75. New, complete 
ed. only $1.69.
L04775. HOME WINE MAKING WITHOUT 
FAILURE, by H. E. Bravery. 200 recipes incl. all 
you need to know about making wine, cider, ale 
beer and mead from fruit, flowers and vegetables 
with simple hints on growing your own ingred
ients. Orig. Pub. at $2.95. New, complete ed. 
Onlv $1.49.
101823. ENCYCLOPEDIA OF KNITTING AND 
CROCHET STITCHES. by F. Westfall. With 
photos of over 300 stitches. A wealth of ideas for 
knitting, knitted lace, crocheting, etc., covering 
how to read instructions, descriptions of stitches, 
synthetic and natural fibres, etc. Orig. Pub. at 
$5.50. New, Complete ed. only $2.98.
114151 HANDCRAFTS MADE EASY! .by Fran 
Westfall. Over 300 illus., 54 full color. Detailed 
instructions on how to knit, smock, tat, crochet, 
weave, hand sew, embroider, make tapestry rugs, 
and needlework. 8 3/4 x 11 1/4. Orig. Publ at 
$6.50. New, Complete ed. only $3.95.
084074. MUSHROOM COOKERY. By R. Reitz. 
How to cook, can, freeze and hunt this delicacy. 
In addition to the traditional mushroom dishes 
there ar^ many dazzling surprises like: Flaming 
Mushrooms, Muffins, Quenelles, etc. Orig. pub. at 
$4.95. New, complete ed. only $1.49
119986. A FEAST OF FLOWERS: A COOK
BOOK FOR TODAY. By F. Tillona & C. 
Strowbridge. Flower power through the ages-- 
Eggnog a la Rose, Flower Butter, flower remedies 
and cosmetics, more. Orig. pub. at $6.95. New 
complete ed. only $1.98
K07710. WHAT FLOWER IS THAT? by S.
Macoboy. Foreword by G. Kalmbacher, Brook
lyn Botanical Gardens. Over 1000 photos all in 
fabulous full color. Beautiful volume describes 
1250 varieties of plants, trees and shrubs that can 
be grown in the U.S. Practical information on 
growing conditions, propagation, popular and 
scientific names and exquisite photos. 8% x 11. 
Exceptional value only $6.95.
K01585. THE FRAGRANT YEAR SCENTED 
PLANTS FOR YOUR GARDEN AND YOUR 
HOUSE, by Helen Van Pelt Wilson and L. Bell. 
With 94 drawings by Leonie Bell. First important 
book on how to schedule plantings for year 
round fragrance, classifications by seasons, in
doors as well as outdoors, etc. Orig. Pub. at 
$10.00. New, complete ed. only $2.98.
120720. GETTING HIGH NATURALLY, ed. by
L. M. Savary. 75 photos. The beauty of these 
words and photos is enough to make you high. 
Alan Watts, Thoreau, Timothy Leary, many 
others. Softbound. Pub. at $2.95. Only $1.00.
12842X.TENNIS, by Pancho Gonzalez. With 119 
photos & 12 drawings. The complete tennis in
struction book with action photos for every type 
of shot, plus equipment, clothing, court specifica
tions and official rules of lawn tennis. Orig. Pub. 
at $3.95. New. comp. ed. Only $1.98.
114925. EXPLORING NATURE WITH YOUR 
CHILD AN INTRODUCTION TO THE ENJOY
MENT AND UNDERSTANDING OF NATURE 
FOR ALL. by D. E. Shuttlesworth. 113 illus. 
Parents and children can explore the miracles of 
nature together in this authoritative account of 
animals and plants, the weather and the stars, etc. 
Pub. at $5.95. Only $1.98.
015447. MATHEMATICAL PUZZLES AND 
OTHER BRAIN TWISTERS, by A. S. Filipiak. 
Delightful book devoted to making and solving of 
mechanical puzzles of all sorts, mostly mathe
matical or geometrical. Pub. at $3.95. Only 
$1.00.
117746. TREASURY OF FAMILIAR QUOTA
TIONS. Over 2500 well-known, useful quotations 
listed under 500 topic headings from ability to 
zeal, indexed, and gathered into a lovely volume 
of green simulated leather with simulated gold 
stamping. Extra Special Value only $1.00.
N09997. MAN PROBES THE UNIVERSE THE 
STORY OF ASTRONOMY. Library ed. Only 
$2.98.
086484. PICTURE GALLERY PIONEERS 
FIRST PHOTOGRAPHERS OF THE WEST 
1850-1875. by Ralph W. Andrews. Over 260 
photos representing the work of Hillers, O'Sulli
van, Savage, Watkins, Britt and others who 
captured the west on wet-plate negatives. Full of 
rare scenes of gold mining, railroading, indians, 
early views of cities and towns, etc. 8Vi x 10%. 
Orig. Pub. at $12.50. New, complete ed. Only 
$3.95.
11223X. THE BICYCLE, by J. Way. 143 illus., 
44 in full color. Lavish, colorful history-survey of 
the bicycle, from its 19th century beginnings to 
today, when it is enjoying a new surge of popu
larity. Incl. repair and maintenance of your 
machine. 8% x 11Vi.s, Extra value import only 
$2.98.
THE BICYCLE
AGuide&Manuai Rjohnway
K09918. THE WORLD OF BEES, by M. Hoyt. 
14 photos. Fascinating account of the remarkable 
life of the beeanatomy, sex habits, the roles of 
the queen, workers, drones, and renegade rob
bers, communal living, relationship to man and 
agriculture, bee-hunting, honey recipes, danger of 
bee stings and how to develop immunity. Orig. 
Pub. at $5.75. New, complete ed. only $1.98.
117339. A DICTIONARY OF FABULOUS 
BEASTS, by R. Barbe & A. Riches. 59 illus. The 
phoenix and the mermaid, dragons, satyrs, cen
taurs, brownies, and Lewis Carroll's snarkbeasts 
and monsters from the world over, from Indian 
America, Greece and Rome, China, etc., fully 
described with histories and legends. Pub. at 
$6.95. Only $1.98.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, April 9, 19/4 rage 1
107252. ALICE'S ADVENTURES IN WONDER
LAND. by Lewis Carroll. Illus. The beautiful 
Tennief illustrations in an exquisite brown sim
ulated leather bound volume with simulated gold 
stamping add to the wonder of Alice and her 
Wonderland. Extra special value only $1.00.
I  ALICE'S
 ADVENTL'K-K*
WONOtRL.
118076. THROUGH THE LOOKING GLASS 
AND WHAT ALICE FOUND THERE. By Lewis 
Carroll. With the originaf Tenniel drawings. The 
companion volume to ALICE'S ADVENTURES
IN WONDERLAND, a treasure to own or give. 
Brown simulated leather binding with simulated 
gold stamping. Extra special value only $1.00 
105926. MARK TWAIN'S LIBRARY OF 
HUMOR, ed. by Samuel Langhornp Clemens, W. 
D. Howell, and C. H. Clark. 193 illus. A marve
lous volume of 144 hilarious short stories by the 
writers who built American literature. Twain's 
own "A Day's Work," "Uncul Remus' Tar 
Baby," "Ambrose Bierce," "Artemus Ward, 
many more. Orig. Pub. at $18.95. New, complete 
ed. only $4.98.
LITERATURE
108682. SONNETS FROM THE PORTUGUESE.
by Elizabeth Barrett Browning. Illus. The most 
beautiful love poems of all time, bound in a 
superb brown simulated leather volume with sim
ulated gold stamping. Extra special value only 
$1.00.
N01015. TREASURY OF THE WORLD'S 
BEST-LOVED POEMS. 109 lovely poems, lyric 
and dramatic, from the Bible to Whitman, 
gathered in a beautiful volume bound in brown 
simulated leather and stamped in simulated gold. 
Extra special value only $1.00.
106647. THE RUBAIYAT OF OMAR 
KHAYYAM: Transl. by Edward Fitzgerald. Illus. 
The ecstatic Persian poem that became a world
wide classic, in an exquisite edition with brown 
simulated leather binding and simulated gold 
stamping. Extra special value only $1.00.
11321X. TREASURVOF AESOP'S FABLES. 68
treasured fables with illus. By Thomas Bewick 
and The Life of Aesop by Oliver Goldsmith. 
Bound in brown simulated leather with simulated 
gold stamping. Extra special value only $1.00 
117312. EUGENE FIELD'S POEMS FOR 
CHILDREN. Illus. The special love of children 
pervades the duel (Gingham Dog & Calico Cat); 
Sugar Plum Tree; Wynken, Blynken, and Nod; 
115 more favorites of young and old. Simulated 
red leather binding with simulated gold stamping. 
Extra special value only $1.00 
115832. ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON: A 
CHILD'S GARDEN OF VERSES. Illus. by Jesse 
Willcox Smith. The Beloved Poems of 
Remembered Childhood-- MY SHADOW, THE 
LAND OF NOD, etc.-in a lovely gift edition of 
red simulated leather with simulated gold 
stamping. Extra special value only $1.00
M01134. COLLECTOR'S ITEM: ALICE'S
ADVENTURES IN WONDERLAND. Read and 
sung by the inimitable Cyril Ritchard, original 
music score by Alec Wilder, played by The New 
York Woodwmd Quartet - the Lewis Carroll 
classic complete on Four 12" LP Records in 
deluxe full-color illustrated gift box, plus a 
facsimile volume of the rare 1865 first edition of 
the book! Illustrated by John Tenniel. Orig. Pub. 
at $25.00. Only $6.95
119765. SELECTIONS FROM HENRY DAVID 
thoreau's Walden. Ed., with an intro., by 
P. Horan. The most fascinating and poetic 
sections of this particularly timely classic. Illus. 
by Thomas Bewick, in a brown simulated leather 
binding with simulated gold stamping. Extra 
special value only $1.00
TKfA5U*Y
OF
7Alo,l
m7e1Al
N00922. SONNETS OF SHAKESPEARE.
Introd. by R.O. Ballou, with the famous Temple 
Notes. Illus. all 154 of the greatest sonnets ever 
written, collected and bound in beautiful brown 
simulated leather with gold stamping. Extra 
special value only $1.00.
012553. NEW JAPANESE ARCHITECTURE, by
Udo Kultermann. Illus. with 180 photos. Com
prehensive picture of the whole phenomenon of 
Japanese architecture since 1945 which has led to 
a new vitality and new regionalism, with dramatic 
photos and analytical texts, plus the biographies 
of some two dozen leading modern Japanest 
architects. Pub. at $13.75. Only $5.95.
119846. MOVEMENT & METAPHOR FOUR 
CENTURIES OF BALLET, by Lincoln Kirstein. 
Over 500 illus. Exotic world of ballet, from 
dances performed by spartan youths to todays 
avant- garde spectacles, highlighted by amazing 
pictures. Pub. at $17.50. Only $4.95.
092476. THE WORLD OF CATS. By John 
Montgomery. 225 superb photos of cats and 
kittens, 44 in brilliant color. All breeds of cats 
are presented in wonderful text, anecdotes and 
delightful pictures for all who admire feline 
beauty and are fascinated by their mystery. With 
advice on how to raise a healthy cat. 8% x 11% 
$9.95 value. Only $3.95
020785. THE NATURAL HOUSE, by Frank 
Lloyd Wright. Great variety of moderately priced 
yet individually and attractively designed houses 
illus, with 116 photos, plans, drawings. Exteriors, 
interiors and furnishings, methods and materials 
of construction with step-by-step description of 
his famous Usonian houses. Orig. pub. at $7.50. 
New, complete ed. only $3.95.
CHILDRENS BOOKSN07005. THE EMPEROR'S NEW CLOTHES/ 
THE THREE DOGS. Full color illus. throughout. 
Two of childhood's favorite stories written in a 
simple and delightful dramatic form and beauti
fully illus. 14 x IOV2. Pub. at $2.95. Only $1.49. 
L06I66. RUSSIAN MERRY TALES AND 
FAIRY TALES THE FALCON UNDER THE 
HAT. Select, and Trans, by G. Daniels. Colorfully 
illus. by Feodor Rojankovsky. Splendid folk and 
fairy stories from rich oral tradition of Russia. 
Beautifully retold and presented with stunning 
illustrations. All ages. Pub. at $5.95. Only $1.98. 
N0474X. NOW MILFRED. by D. J. Donovan. 
With 40 pages of full color illus. The imaginations 
of youngsters will be delighted by the zany ad
ventures of Starbeem, the Mooncat, and Milfred, 
a baby space dragon. Ages 4-8. Pub. at $2.95. 
Only $1.00.
N08257. ASTERIX AND CLEOPATRA. Up
roarious encounter between the Gallic barbarian 
and the lovely Egyptian queen. Pub. at $2.95. 
Only $1.00.
130068. THE DANCING DWARF. Color illus. 
throughout, with three full color pop-ups. New 
and enchanting retelling of a famed Grimm fairy 
tale. Ages 5-7. Only $1.00.
130076. THE PRINCE 81 PRINCESS OF THE 
HALF MOON. Color illus. throughout, and three 
full color pop-ups. Delightful tale of how the 
flags of Tunisia and Turkey came to be. Ages 5-7. 
Only $1.00.
130084. THE SHINING PRINCESS. Color illus. 
throughout. Three full color pop-ups. Charming 
story of a young princes magical quest to marry 
the lovely, shining Princess Labam. Ages 5-7. 
Only $1.00.
130092. THE WHITE SNAKE. Illus. in color, 
with three full color pop-ups. Delightful fairy tale 
of a young boy's love of nature and a beautiful 
princess. Ages 5-7. Only $1.00.
R01544. MR. BUDGE BUILDS A HOUSE, by G. 
Adamson. Over 75 illus. The story of the Budges' 
new house a clear, fascinating account for 
young people of the history of building. Ages 
8-I2. Pub. at $3.95. Only $1.00.
103206. THE LITTLE NIGHT PEOPLE, by A.
Kopisch. Illus. throughout in vivid color. How 
the hobgoglins of Cologne helped the towns
people with their work, until the fateful night the 
tailor's wife grew too curious. Ages 4-8. Only 
$1.00..
R00424. GREAT DRAWINGS OF THE 
LOUVRE MUSEUM THE GERMAN, FLEMISH, 
AND DUTCH DRAWINGS, by R. Bacou. 100 
reproductions all in their original color. Gorgeous 
collection of the masters of the northern 
schoolDurer, Brueghel, Rubens, Rembrandt, 
etc.reproduced with incredible fidelity, with 
brief critical appraisal of each work. 8% x 11%. 
Pub. at $20.00. Only $9.95..
019574. MASTERPIECES OF THE LQUVRE.
By Marcel Brion. 130 illus., including 68 handtipped plates in full color. Detailed descriptions 
of outstanding works of art with a history of the 
Louvre and its collection. 10/2 x 12%. Pub. at 
$30.00. New, revised ed. only $14.95 
N07234. PAUL KLEE. By N. Ponente. 54 fine 
hand-tipped reproductions in full color. Klee's 
world, full of delight and symbolism, revealed in 
his paintings and in sparkling text. Orig. pub. at 
$8.95. New, complete ed. only $3.95 
119587. MODERN GEOMETRIC DESIGNS. By 
A. Lorch. Over 100 full color illus. A must for all 
who like to design: over 100 design ideas with 
nine pages on formulative construction of geo
metric designs. 8% x 11%. Pub. at $5.95. Only 
S2 98
120690. APPRECIATION OF ART: THE
VISUAL DIALOGUE. By N. Knobler. 365 high 
quality reproductions, many in full color. Intro
duction to painting, drawing, sculpture, and 
architecture of all ages, creating a basis for 
heightened personal esthetic appreciation via tips 
on color theory, composition, media, etc. Deluxe 
Buckram binding. 8% x 11%. Pub. at $13.95. 
Only $3.95
ART AND ARTISTS
L 0 3 8 1 7 . NORMAN ROCKWELL 
ILLUSTRATOR. By Arthur L. Guptill. Preface 
by Dorothy Canfield Fisher. 437 illus., 43 in full 
color. Beautiful, best-selling volume which shows 
the works of America's most beloved artist and 
offers a pictorial panorama of a growing and 
changing America. Thirty years of Saturday 
Evening Post covers, hundreds of anecdotes, all 
of Rockwell's most famous works and special 
illustrations done just for this book. 9x12. Pub. 
at $17.50. Only $7.95
102080. MICHELANGELO THE PAINTER, by
V. Mariani. 121 illus. incl, 108 gorgeous full color 
plates. Published under the auspices of the Italian 
National Committee To Honor Michelangelo, this 
magnificent volume contains all of Michelagnelo's 
art, from the designs, sketches and paintings to 
the great frescoes of the Sistine Chapel. Deluxe 
binding of green cloth with simulated gold letter
ing. 10% x 14%. 2% thick. Pub. at $75.00. Only 
1Q Q*;
N07862. DUFY, by J. Lassaigne. 55 hand-tipped 
plates all in full color. The delightful world of 
color and charm of Dufy's paintings, revealed in 
excellent reproductions and vivid biographical 
and critical commentary. Orig. Pub. at $8.95. 
Only $3.95.
N07250. REMBRANDT. By O. Benesch. 56 
superb hand-tipped full color plates. The pinnacle 
of the Dutch Renaissance - luminous paintings by 
a great master of world art, plus biography and 
critical commentary. Orig. pub. at $8.95. New, 
complete ed. only $3.95
109611. MASTERS OF FRENCH PAINTING 
1850-1950. by G. Besson. 168 Illus., all in full 
color. Stunning collection of paintings from one 
of the great periods in art history. Works of 
Courbet, Cezanne, Picasso, Matisse, 70 more, 
with short biographies of each artist. 9% x 11. 
Pub. at $8.95. Only $3.95.
R00432. GREAT DRAWINGS OF THE 
LOUVRE MUSEUM THE ITALIAN DRAW 
INGS. by R. Bacou. 100 reproductions all in 
their original color. DaVinci, Michelangelo, 
Corregio, Titian, RaphaelMagnificent repro
ductions of works by many of the greatest artists 
of all time, together with histories and apprecia
tions of each drawing 8% x -11%. Pub. at $20.00. 
Only $9.95.
R004ia GREAT DRAWINGS OF THE 
LOUVRE MUSEUM THE FRENCH DRAW 
INGS. by N. Serullaz. 100 reproductions all in 
their original color. Extraordinary work of 
French masters from the 15th to the 20th cen
tury, incl. Fouquet, Delacroix, David, Cezanne, 
Lautrec, etc., beautifully reproduced with in
cisive commentary on each. 8% x 11%. Pub. at 
$20.00. Only $9.95.
N07226. BOSCH. By R.L. Delevoy. 54 handtipped plates all in brilliant full color. Extra
ordinary reproductions of Bosch's fantastic 
haunting paintings, plus biographic and critical 
commentary. Orig pub. at $8.95. New, complete 
ed. only $3.95
N07854. LAUTREC. By J. Lassaigne. 49 
stunning full color hand-tipped plates. The brutal 
clarity of Lautrec's vision of Parisian night-life 
displayed in a stunning volume on his art and life. 
Orig. pub. at $8.95. New complete ed. only 
$3.95
10427X. AUBREY BEARDSLEY, by B Reade. 
Introd. by Sir John Rothenstein. 502 excellent 
reproductions. The largest collection of his 
works, incl. all his better-known prints and draw
ings and many less familiar but equally import
ant, revealing his profound influence on book 
illustration, poster and architectural design, etc. 
8% x 12. Orig. Pub. at $16.95. New, complete ed. 
Only $6.98.
N06874. ROUAULT, by L. Venturi. 58 fine full 
color hand-tipped plates. The techniques and art
istry of stained glass transmuted into powerful 
paintings, collected with complete critical and 
biographical data. Orig. Pub. at $8.95. New, com
plete ed. Only $3.95.
N06734. BRUEGEL, by R. L. Delevoy. 54 
hand-tipped plates all in robust full color. 16th 
century peasants and farmers at work and play as 
portrayed by the earthy Flemish master, incl. his 
biography and expert appraisal. Orig. Pub. a' 
$8.95. New, complete ed. Only $3.95. 
N07870. MIRO. by J. Lassaigne. 50 stunning 
hand-tipped full color plates. Simultaneously in
nocent and surreal, with a fresh, striking use of 
color-fine reproductions and critical analysis. 
Orig. Pub. at $8.95. New, complete ed. Only 
$3.95.
N06270. THE COMPLETE PAINTINGS OF 
CEZANNE. Intro, by I. Dunlop. Over 800 re
productions, 64 full color plates. An allencompassing volume of the work of the man the 
Cubists hailed as a prophetic genius. Includes 
critical history, catalog of all the works, outline 
biography, and bibliography. Only $3.95.
0038803 THAT WILDER IMAGE THE PAINT
INGS OF AMERICA'S NATIVE SCHOOL 
FROM THOMAS COLE TO WINSLOW HOMER.
Over 100 reproductions. By J. T. Flexner. The 
originality of our artists from 1825 when Cole's 
Hudson River landscapes revolutionized painting 
to modern times. Here are Bingham's Ohio Boat
men, Catlin's Indians, Bierstadi's Rockies, Blythe 
and social protest and many others in portraiture, 
landscape and the American scene. 8/* x 11. Orig. 
Pub. at $15.00. New, complete ed. only $4.95.
08936X. LAROUSSE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF 
MODERN ART. Over 1200 illus., 56 in full 
color. Ed. by Rene Huyghe. Stunning, opulently 
illustrated encyclopedia and guide to all the intracacies of Modern Art, painting, sculpture, 
architecture, the minor arts, etc., covering 
Fauvism, Futurism, Surrealism, Abstract, Pop, 
and the very latest experiments of today's young 
artists. 8% x 11V4. Pub. at $20.00. Only $9.95.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20- THE TARTAN-Tuesday, April 9, 1974
mR AuT tAo WarBTR
Aorx will coax the blues right into 
your heart. This new. ten million-dollar 
film version of the Broadway musical 
features Lucille Ball as the madcap, flap
per aunt." and a cast of hundreds, all of 
whom look like rejects from lak MukAe 
MAeBmRi
The first five minutes of the fiim are 
deceivingly brilliant. As the credits roll, 
the secreen becomes a witty montage of 
clips from 42nd Street' and other Busby 
Berkeley extravaganzas. The fun-loving, 
jazzy spirit of Maine's hot times is better 
established here than in the subsequent 
two hours. The story concerns a young 
orphans travels with his aunt. Patrick and 
his timid governess, Agnes Gooch, intro
duce themselves to Maine; she. in turn, 
introduces them to Life. She leads them on 
a brisk odyssey, her-motto being: Life is a 
banquet, and most poor AprAiof-bitches are 
starving to death! Mame plays Hostess 
with the Mostest on the Ball to fantastic 
feasts, welcoming anyone who's everyone. 
The oft-revitalized tale of Ak is like a 
patient who is constantly receiving new 
transfusions: unfortunately, this time
around its weakened by bad blood. Auntie 
Maines original condition was her healthrf99i F
V:'.' 
a-. : 
V
Nbv
iest. Written as a grand, quasi-biography by 
Patrick Dennis, the novel was translated to 
the stage, then into a very funny film with 
Rosalind Russell, then back on the stage as 
a frothy musical with Angela Lansbury. 
Now Maines back and Lucys got her.
At first, the casting seems inspired. All 
America loves the Queen of the Comic 
Romp  who better to play a zany. Beekman Place gypsy in chic clothing? But as 
Mame. Lucy is required to, among other 
things, sing, wear an assortment of illcolored wigs, and dance. Ms. Ball shouldve 
stuck to pratfalls. The moment she 
launches into a number, her face is fixed in 
a mechanical grin; all spontanaiety is lost in 
favor of a false and over-rehearsed per
fection.
Still, nothing is more cruel to Lucy than 
the one device designed to be kind. To 
conceal the harsh truth of wrinkles, and 
lines. Director Gene Saks has opted to film 
Lucy in nazy. soft-focus style. Gauze seems 
to shroud the camera each time she 
appears. Her features become undefined 
and luminous. This antiquated, totally un
necessary trick (plotwise, it doesnt matter 
how old Mame looks - but obviously it 
matters to someone how old Lucille Ball 
looks), is hard on our eyes, not to mention 
our nerves.
The fact that she gets away with it is 
testament to her Star Power, yet beneath 
ail the soft focuses, what is there? Her 
sense of timing is shrewd, and shes great at 
acting indignant but Maines magic seems 
to be still up her sleeve. There is a shallow
ness about Lucys Maine; the Auntie's joie 
de vivre is reduced to a contrived kooki
ness. The champagne bubble of a life Mame 
lived goes fiat at Ms. Balls touch. A Star 
Vehicle is only as good as the star's char
isma. Here, that essential sparkle labors un
der too many special effects  the human 
reality of Mame is airbrushed away.
Kirby Furlong is properly munchkinlike and Waspish as Patrick, and Jane 
Connell is hysterical in her all-too-brief per
formance as the moth-like Agnes, who is 
transformed by Mame and Company into a 
sexy, eventually pregnant butterfly. Critics 
say that Bea Arthur (T.V.s APhkN steals 
the picture as Mames wise-cracking, alkieactress friend. The truth is, nothing about 
Ak is valuable enough to be stolen. In 
her arch, chalk-white make-up and black 
cap of a wig, Ms. Arthur could easily sue 
for defamation of character.
The direction by Gene Saks is heavyhanded and usually far from right. He in
dulges in cheap gags and sentimentality 
that are costly to the films ultimate effect.
ivvV,?-.;. ,V. v
VV;-VV'vV 
Onna White does not choreograph so much 
as clutter. Her messy patterns are more 
dependent on action than grace. For the 
big Mame number she has her dancers 
dressed in fox-hunt regalia, kicking and 
twirling like Russian cossacks. The cost
umes, by Theodora Van Runkle (the 
trend-setter of Gwoork Aoh WdRhk fame) are 
lush and expensive, and in a few instances, 
historically wrong. The make-up work here 
is simply awful. Why does it seem that 
throughout the film, all forces are bent on 
making Lucille Ball look like Roz Russell?
Ak is one of Jerry Hermans formula 
musicals (i.e., jkddw ywddRb ykAu ,wudhNb 
which inlcudes one ingenue love song (this 
time its the sugary My Best Girl), and 
one spectacular number in which the 
shows preferably veteran famale star gets 
to kick up her heels while being praised by 
a virile male chorus. Mr. Hermans finest 
song, the haunting If He Walked Into My 
Life is passed off as a tear-jerky elegy to 
lost love, guaranteed-to-put-a-lump-inyour-throat; Ms. Ball sings it as if shes got 
a frog in hers. Loving You, the one new 
song added to the film, sounds like a 
Sesame Street dittty: 1 am brave, I am 
strong, 1 am true--Loving you.
Warner Brothers has taken bad art and 
made it worse. The thoughtless, big-budget 
movie musical strikes again-this time put 
the blame on Mame, boys.
Taj Mahal Restaurant
5151 Clairton Blvd., Route 51, South
Only Indian Restaurant in Pgh.
Distinctive Indian Cuisine 
Buffet Thur.: $4.75 per Person
CATERING AND TAKE-OUT SERVICE AVAILABLE
FOR RESERVATIONS: CALL 8*19500

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, April 9, 1974Page 21
TIHMEAYKIE
In Early Spring
4 Former C-/V1U Students 
Cop TONY Noms
mR EPBAo si 3dkro
Four former Carnegie-Mellon University 
students are among the nominees for this 
seasons Antoinette Perry (Tony) Awards 
given for excellence in theatre. Alphabet
ically; Rene Auberjonois, Mark Baker, June 
Gable, and Jules Fisher are nominated in 
jpfour of the eighteen categories for the 
Tonys, the theatre business equivalent of 
the Oscars, to be bestowed on Sunday, 
April 21st. (ABC-TV, 9 p.m.).
Rene Auberjonois is nominated in the 
category of best supporting actor in a play 
for his performance in four different 
sketches of the Neil Simon/Anton Chekhov 
patchwork called lak Mwwh ywxewui 
"Auberjonois won a Tony for his perform
ance opposite Katherine Hepburn in Wwxwb 
a 1970 musical. He was recently acclaimed 
as Edgar in the New York Shakespeare 
Festival production of 3ron 0kAu which 
was broadcast on WQED about a month 
ago.
 Renes toughest competition for this 
years Tony is Ed Flanders, who reaped 
raves as Phil Hogan in the great D wwo 
6wu eak rBmknweeko revival (which will 
probably sweep several categories). Mr. 
Auberjonois is now considering doing the 
film version of zok 6dkp zku eak 
WPxTwwvB skBeb with Jack Nicholson slated 
to star. Rene graduated from C-MU in the 
yearly sixties. He worked extensively with 
Bill Balls American Conservatory Theatre 
in San Francisco, worked with the Lincoln 
Center Repertory Comapny, and appeared 
in the films iDiEijib xWAmk Aoh uBi
rddkub GukpBeku xWdwPhb SAnkBb and Ckek 
W lrddrki
Mark Baker attended Carnegie-Mellon 
University for one semester. The curleyhaired devil is playing the title role in the 
new musical WAohrhkb for which he is nom
inated as best supporting musical actor. 
(Star billing is given to Lewis J. Stadlen as 
the Dr. Pangloss/Voltaire/Narrator.) After 
leaving Carnegie-Mellon, Mark studied 
theology, then headed to New York where 
he trained at the Neighborhood Playhouse, 
and at the American Academy of Dramatic 
Arts. His only other Broadway perform
ance was in the 1972 disaster HrA MAdAxeg 
rxAi
June Gable is also nominated for a 
supporting musical role in WAohrhki (She 
competes with Maureen Brennan who is 
playing Cunegonda in the same show.) 
After graduating from C-MU in the mid
sixties, June appeared in :AxJPkB Gukdb and 
the A1 Carmines musical ,Aoekhb both 
off-Broadway; WAohrhk marks her Broad
way debut.
Jules Fishers lighting for the Zero Mostel show 'dRBBkB ro srnaeewpo has been 
nominated as the best of the year. Fisher is 
a constant winner of nominations; he won 
last years Tony for the lighting of Crroi 
His credits include the lighting for EkkBApb 
:kBPB WaurBe EPkuBeAub jArub and 0kooRi 
The lighting for 'dRBBkB is wonderfully de
signed, but Ben Edwards may ride in as a 
winner with the lighting for wwo 6wu lak 
rBmknweekoi
So kAudR Buronb
pako uAropAeku BdrhkB pwuB
AxuwBB eak Akkoeb
S hukA wf wdh pwko 
prea parek ekkea Aoh ukh oArdBb 
prea kRkmuwpB koxrdkh arna 
ro kukePAd BPuurBki ykxAhkoe 
yrkeurxa pwko paw wPu 
muAohR ro eakru rdTi
So kAudR Buronb
pako uAropAeku pABakB Ph
roew eak nPeekub
S A BkhPxkh mR wdh pwko 
prea Bwfe mukABeB Aoh wrBe AuBb 
prea RAporon xPoeB ro parxa 
owearon rB A BPuurBki :Ahkh 
xawTku pwko paw hrBkoBk 
muAohR prea eakru rdTi
So kAudR Buronb
pako uAropAeku dkAkB okp BkkhB 
ukBBkh ew eak prohwpb
S hukA
Tony Adler
HEINZ HALL RWg t' k'gRWgb. xg HEINZ HALL
ROD
McKUEN
X
frrMMfMM MM  U'l I'MM PI1'* M t < I f M H > > M M M I I1!
THE LATIN AMERICAN CLUB
PRESENTS THE FILM
>
"Memories of 
Underdevelopment"
The Cuban Revolution: I can understand but 
I cannot adapt.
Wed. -April 17, 7:30 p.m. P.H. 100
FREEfunded by: AB programming fund.
ONE PERFORMANCE ONLY
oPfrdcy, xAfDs CS cw E kmm
HEINZ HALL
. . . One of the great entertainers of this generation. 
(reene. lak lrkBb London
"For three hours he thrilled the crowd and showed 
that any admittance price would have been justified.
lak EPob Melbourne
The crowd cheered! He went on for a r>olid two hour* 
to win a thunderou.. ovation."
Ke>>ell, HAurkeR
Tickets 85.00, $41.00, $7.00 at the Heinz Hall Box 
Office, Giinbels, Horne's, kaufmann's.
10'< di-count to indent* and senior citizens with II) 
at the Heinz Hall Box Office.
Discounts to group- of 20 or more. Phone 281 -8185.
b t'bz txvv RWg t' k'gRWgb. xg t'bz txvv
HEINZ HALL RWg t' k'gRWgb. xg HEINZ HALL RWg t' k'gRWgb. xg HEINZ HALL

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, April 9, 1974
BI6BITE
mR EeAxkR Iwmro 3rmkdd
I am tempted inside a candy store that 
has a window display of chocolate space
men, bunny rabbits, jacks and jills, turtles 
and crosses. It is the crosses that are tempt
ing. There is one that is immaculate white 
I 1L high solid chocolate. There are no pre
tenses about this. You buy a chocolate 
cross to eat. I dont know if this is a 
sacrilage. 1 wonder, though, if you drink it 
down with holy water. I am surprised there 
is no chocolate Kennedy or worse yet a 
white chocolate Martin Luther King.
The candy store is called GwdAoB (since 
1918). They have three locations in town. 
Two are downtown and one is in the East 
Liberty Mall across the street from Woolworths. At this location there is a restaurEVERY DAY 
OF THE WEEK
STREAKERS
SPECIAL
Each Adult Member of Your Party
PITCHER OF BEER
INCLUDED IN 
PRICE OF MEAL
------------PLUS------------
ALL THE SALAD YOU CAN MAKE
------------PLUS------------
OUR TENDER JUICY
SIRLOIN 
STEAKBURGER
ALL FOR JUST2.95
More than V2 lb. of 
Ground Steak with 
French Fries
af EMERSONS, Ltd.
unlimited steak dinners
NORTH HILLS, PA. 931-6706
4611 McKmght Road
MONROEVILLE, PA. 824 1440
3500 William Penn Highway (Rt. 22)
m uivi or a* Ktf
ant and a candy store. As far as candy, 
Bolans only deals in chocolate and carries 
no divinity to parter with the crosses. The 
C-MU bookstore also sells chocolate crosses 
for 69 cents and the delightful stupidity I 
felt when I bought one and asked everyone 
in sight Want a bite of cross? is stupidity 
unparalled; felt only by chocolate cross 
manufacturers. They must be the same 
people who create chocolate American 
flags on July 4th and chocolate hammers 
and anvils on Labor day. A lucrative busi
ness, Im sure.
As for Bolans, it is Easter there. They 
will send Easter parcels anywhere. They 
will also put chocolate into any mold you 
give them. 1 want a chocolate typewriter. I 
want to eat off the commas because I never 
put them in the right place. By the way, 
there is no chocolate Christ on the cross by 
ruling of the Catholic church. It would be 
too erotic. The chocolate spaceman 
(modeled after Neil Armstrong) is fully 
dressed.
Bolans has a french Maitre d and an 
Irish staff and clientele. The inspiration for 
this entire account comes from Henry Fon
da. I sat next to him at lunch today at the 
counter at Bolans. He suggested the Straw
berry Pie. I said'^Henry, this is a candy 
store? the strawberry pie is going to be too 
sweet^It was too sweet and it had whipped 
cream on top. I ate a hamburger but I ate 
it after the pie. Henry had suggested the 
hamburger would be more appetizing if I 
were to eat the pie first. I do not argue 
with men who sound and look like Henry 
Fonda. He told me he was a bachelor and 
therefore could not keep track of the days. 
This, I told him, was due to a newspaper 
strike; he said his friend buys the Wall 
Street Journal so that he can read the in
tellectual funnies on the front page. The 
way I met my lunch partner was by running 
to him and asking didnt we meet on the 
set of She Wore A Yellow Ribbon? His 
reply was that I am not that old and people 
have mentioned the resemblance before. 
He ate his dessert first.
Bolans Apple Pie is not as sweet as the 
strawberry and excellent for 40 cents. Bol
ans counter clientele are all people over 50 
who are either bachelored, spinstered or 
widowed. Everyone else is supposed to sit 
at tables. The waitresses know the whole 
counter crew by first name.
Bolans serves entire meals for under 
$4.00. A spaghetti meal is $1.95. It isnt 
outstanding but its harmless. Their ham
burgers are solid meat and reasonably 
priced. Whats real good, though, in their 
food selection is the soup. Henry knew it 
was Saturday by the soup he was served. 
The soup is laddted into a giant Red Cross 
bowl. Soup is usually around 50 cents a 
bowl and is different and delicious (direct 
phrase from Rosemary the waitress) every 
day.
At Bolans the counter is too far away 
from the stools and things really did fall 
into my lap because I was unaware of the 
distance. It was the entire atmosphere of 
Bolans though that made me unaware of 
distance. When I left Bolans and Henry and 
the white chocolate crosses it was only 
after 1 had sat there in the same chair for 
two hours.When in the East Liberty Mall, 
stop in at Bolans for a meal. Next to a bar 
you wont find anywhere more casual.
A thief broke into the concession stand 
at a drive-in theater in Alamogordo New 
Mexico and tried vainlyusing a spoon, a 
cresent wrench and a beer-can openerto 
get into the safe. He wrote a note which 
read:
Someday Ill figure out how to open 
this safe.
He then left, but not before he had 
stolen nine of the 15 cent boxes of raisins.
C-mU Film Fe/t
On a spring afternoon in 197(5, two 
C-MU student filmmakers decided it might 
be nice to screen their films and the films 
of other C-MU students to the C-MU cam
pus. The result of this decision was the first 
C-MU Film Festival, which was held less 
than a week later on a Friday afternoon in 
the Wherrett Room. Since then, the festival 
has come to be an annual event and has 
grown to the point where last year over 20 
films were seen by standing room only 
crowds in Porter Hall 100.
This years film festival will take place 
this coming weekend and close to thirty 
students have entered a total of 24 films 
with subjects ranging from Computers to 
the C-MU Jazz Band to the mood of 
Washington in the shadow of Watergate. 
All films were made by C-MU students and 
many films represent first efforts. The 
festival is being sponsored by the Activities 
Board and the Department of Student 
Activities. Both groups granted funds to 
partially cover the high cost of making the 
films.
Stan Edelstein, this years festival chair
man, explained how films are chosen for 
the festival: There really arent any strict 
criteria. We realize that C-MU does not 
have an extensive course offering in the 
area of film-making, and that most of us 
are still novices in the art of film, so were 
sticking to the philosophy thats been used 
since the first festival, which is to open the 
festival to all C-MU student-made films 
which evidence a high regard for film as a 
creative medium, ideally, this festival is a 
collection rather than a selection, and 
there arent any judges or juries. In the past 
weve used what we would have used as 
prize money to fund all student films, and 
what resulted was a festival with more 
films than it would otherwise have had and 
a festival with some very good films. In 
fact, a film that Rick Braverman (the 
founder of the festival) made for a festival 
a few years ago was put into the Genesis 
Five Film Package and was commercially 
distributed across the country. Weve had 
very good results in the past, and from 
what Ive seen so far, this years festival 
should be the best yet.
Edelstein also commented on' com
plaints that Porter Hall 100 is too small to 
accommodate the number of people 
whove wished to see the film festival in 
the past. We know that Porter Hall 100 is 
small and for the last two years weve tried 
to find a better place for the festival. The V 
problem is that we cant show the super 8 
films from the projection booth, so we 
need a hall with some floor space near the 
rear of the room. That rules out Doherty 
2210, and Science Hall 7500 is even small
er than Porter Hall. The ballroom would be 
ideal, but thats tied up with Scotch & 
Soda, so were left with Porter Hall 100. I 
guess the only thing to say is that if people : 
want to make sure they see the festival 
they should get there early on either Friday 
or Saturday night.
lak frfea AooPAd Wg' 6rd 6kBerAd prdd 
eATk dAxk wo 6urhAR Aoh EAePuhAR Ae >c-- 
ii ro Cwueku jAdd 7--i DhrBBrwo rB fukki 
lak fkBerAd prdd fkAePuk okp xrokA mRc
0rohA DxTkuAo 
jkdko Duuwe 4 HrhA yPork 
Ddrxk GkAu 
3Aeadkko GPedku 
Iwnku WAmwu 
0kk Wwwurhku 
0AuuR ykomkun 
:wBka yuk5dku
EeAo thkdBekro ,
DoeawoR 6rok
GAum 6ukkAo 4 Exwee 3kopwueaR
:AkB MApuwo
turxA MkkB
Grddrk jAuurB
DR jwuwpreq
:r jPeeoku 4 Iwmkue ,areerku
:r 4 EPk :Pdrko c yArh GkxT
yArh 3uABoku 4 :wao EkkAo
kdrBBA 0kwoAuh
GuAhR 0kprB
WuArn 0kkuAoe
APukko wBaro
:Ao CAureeA
CAPd IwBkomdww
3Aear EAmwe
Eekako EAdd
:r ,akkdku
Now you can 
protect yourself 
against muggers, rapists 
and worse with this 
amazing new whistle. Wear it 
as a necklace or carry it as a key chain. Its long-range 
penetrating shrill brings help in a hurry. The next dark 
night (that's tonight!) you'll feel a lot safer just knowing 
you have the greatest protection in the world. Gives 
obscene phone callers a shrilling earful, too.
GET IT BEFORE YOU HAD IT!
COME IN OR MAIL HANDY COUPON
Yes! I want to be saved! Send me____London-Like Whistles
___Key Cham___Necklace (Number)____Chrome ____
I enclose $3.00 for each London-Like 
Whistle. I understand that if I am not 
totally satisfied. I will receive a complete 
refund if returned in 10 days.
NAME____________________________________
Family Jewels Ltd.
3431 West Villard Avanue 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin 53209
STREET NUMBER. 
CITY_____________

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, April 9, 1974-Page 23
Poetry Forum The next lecturers reading 
from their own works at the International 
Poetry Forum at Carnegie Library will be 
Richard Howard and Richmond Lattimore, 
appear Wednesday, April 17 at 8:15 
p.m. Tickets, student discounted, are avail
able at the Forum Library office.
Tom Crown The 1968 film The Thomas 
Crown Affair will be presented on April 
14th in the Wherrett Room of Skibo. Ad
mission is 75 cents, and there are two 
showings at 7 and 9:30 p.m. The film was 
directed by Norman Jewison (Fiddler on 
the Roof) and stars Steve McQueen and 
Faye Dunaway. The film introduced many 
experimental film techniques, and is a 
witty and sophisticated crime story.
9
Kamin Dan Kamin, a Carnegie-Mellon grad
uate, will present his mime show Silent 
Comedy . . . Live! at the Pittsburgh Play
house on April 13 at 8:00 p.m. Tickets are 
available at the Playhouse box office and at 
all local Ticketron outlets. For more infor
mation call 922-5300.

Scotch and Soda-Of the Valley, a new
fantasy/musical, will be the Spring show of 
Scotch and Soda, the University club for 
non-drama students interested in producing 
and performing theatre. Each season they 
stage one or two new shows written, di
rected by., and starring exclusively amateur 
talent from within the ranks of C-MUs 
wide range of departments. This spring, 
auditions will be held for new shows to be 
prepared for next season. Jim Sugg, presi
dent of Scotch and Soda, is interested in 
finding new talent for next year, and no
tice will be posted soon as to the dates of 
try-outs. Scotch and Soda wants to move 
in different directions; Of the Valley re
presents a low-budget show that is not 
necessarily in the typical musical- comedy 
mode. The show will run from April 12 till 
April 22, with Monday nights dark. Tickets 
are available in Baker Hall, and at the 
Skibo Ballroom door.
RUGS
FOR
LESS
Earn extra money while going to school . . .
Pleasant working conditions 
Telephone soliciting for construction co.
$2.00/hr. plus commission guaranteed 
Choose full time or part time hours
for interview call: Miss Harland 521-7395
* not your run of the mill job
with your ID Card 
9 x 12s $15.$19, $29, $39 
also 6x9s,12x12s. 12x15s
Also wall tapestries, Indian rugs furry rugs 
and bedspreads. Low prices oriental rugs in 
many sizes.
ASK ABOUT DISCOUNT FURNITURE
CHASE'S
5426 Walnut 
Shadyside
10 a.m. - 8 p.m Sat, ti: 5 
For directions call 621 1025
WRCT,ABWudg
ALEX
SKI MASKS
FORSTREAKERS
ON SALE
Only79
212 N HIGHLAND AV{ EAST LI8ERTY/66I  S8?0 fORBl S AV SQUIRRtl HIU 4?1 %00|
 Alex Reich open Monday, Thursday, and Friday til 9.
 Reich/Frank open Tuesday and-Thursday til 9.
There will 
be a meeting of
Programming Fund
on
SUNDAY( APRIL 14
at
7:30 p.m. in Rm 11 Skibo
ALL GROUPS INTERESTED 
IN OBTAINING FUNDS 
FOR NEXT FALL, PLEASE ATTEND
Bring complete breakdown of 
proposed budget.

---------------------------------------------------

P<m 24THE TARTAN-Tuesday, April 9, 1974
To all returning undergraduate 
and graduate students:
HELP WANTED: Male, Female, Other. The 
Activities Board needs PEOPLE to help coordinate 
and execute its programming for the next academic 
year. The following committees will need additional 
members:
rp
00
1rp
O
0
LT
A
?
Mai' iigGfes, Mm MU
iMt@@Conf
o
lb
o0_r
ij/ii
If you are at all interested in what type of 
programming your Activities Fee is paying for, then 
fill out a sign-up sheet at either the desk in 
Morewood or at the Skibo Information Desk.
jr

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, April 9, 1974-Page 25
sports
Pitt Proves It 5-3
Final League Scoring and Goaltending for C-MU
I
Dave Groupe shoots as Mike Kenworthy looks on.
mR yAk MruhAoR
The C-MU hockey team finished an ex
citing season on Thursday, March 21, at 
the Civic Arena, with a 5-3 loss to Pitt in 
the championship final. This final was a 
game well played by two teams which de
served to be in it. However, the Tartans did 
in this final game what they had done so 
often beforestart the third period either 
behind or tied with their opponents. Pitts 
^ 4-0 lead at the end of two periods, while 
not reflecting the true story of the game, 
proved too much of a deficit for C-MU to 
overcome.
Both teams had their chances to score in 
the first two periods, but Pitt goalie John 
DeFazio, playing an excellent game, was 
equal to the task, thwarting each C-MU 
effort. Pitts Rich Vernon scored twice on 
) breakaways in the first period, and Jeff 
Hart could not be faulted in either case. 
Vernons second goal occurred on a beauti
ful play-while C-MU held the puck in the 
Pitt zone, a Pitt player went to the bench 
and Vernon skated straight to center ice, 
where he received the puck as soon as his 
Mjeammates could get it to him, thus setting 
Hiim up for a breakaway. Bob Arturo and 
t Charlie Hagins scored in the second period 
to give Pitt its 4-0 lead.
Down by four goals to Pitt, entering the 
final period, the Tartans could have given 
up, but they carried the play to the Panth
ers in this period, and the outcome of the 
game was in doubt up to the final minutes 
nj the game. Mike Kenworthy set up Rick 
Farman on a breakaway at the two minute 
i mark of the period to make the score 4-1. 
However, Vernon scored 29 seconds later 
nu another breakaway to make it 5-1. The 
Tartans kept pressing until Mike Ken
worthy picked up a loose puck to the left 
nj the Pitt goalmouth and shot it between 
DeFazios legs for C-MUs second goal. 
Then about three minutes later, Pete Davis 
. scored on a breakaway to make it 5-3 with 
still more than five minutes left in the 
game-plenty nj time for two or three 
goals. However DeFazio was too good this 
night and the season ended with Pitt the
Scoring
GoalsAssistsPoints
league champions. DeFazio was the differ
ence in this game, played by two excellent 
teams. The final shots on goal showed Pitt 
36, C-MU 32. One thing that did hurt the 
Tartans badly was their failure to score 
when they had about four minutes of a 
two-man advantage in the second period. 
This could have broken other teams, but 
the Tartans, like a great team, came back 
when they were down, as they had done all 
year.
To reach the final, the Tartans broke 
away from a 2-2 tie at the end of two 
periods against Indiana to win 4-2 on Tues
day, March 19th, at Sewickley. Pete Davis 
scored two goals, and Mike Kenworthy and 
Mike Callaway got one each. Indiana edged 
Duquesne 4-3 in the consolation match 
before the final.
Scoring Summaries
C-MU vs. Indiana
First Period
1) Ind. Hanson 1 (unassisted ) 8:17.
Second Period
2) C-MU-Davis 1 (unassisted) 1:08, 3) 
C-MU-Kenworthy 1 (Jacobs) 6:13; 4) 
Ind-Hanson 2 (unassisted) 10:26.
Third Period 
5) C-MU-Davis 2 (Grimm, Goldsmith) 
1:48; 6) C-MU-Gallaway 1 (Davis) 7:07.
Te2 Brm kDww
First Period
Pitt-Vernon (K. Browne) 8:47; 2) Pitt 
Vernon (unassisted) 12:04.
Second Period
Pitt-Arturo (unassisted) 8:09; 4) Pitt 
Hagins (D. Browne) 8:47.
Third Period
5) C-MU-Farman 1 (Kenworthy, Calla
way) *2:00; 6) Pitt-Vernon (D. Browne) 
2:29; 7) C-MU-Kenworthy 2 (unassisted) 
6:21; 8) C-MU-Davis 3 (Callaway) 9:43.
Kenworthy71623
Davis12820
Grimm71017
Callaway8614
Farman6814
Peterson -7613
Jacobs5510
Goldsmith729
Molnar369
BauerI67
Eastman134
Hauser213
Herlich02T
McConnell101
Graves011
Groupe011
Team6781148
GoaltendingGamesGoals AgainstGoals /Av
Hart13322.46
Sciulli263.0
Team15382.53
(Hart had 2 shutouts and combined with Sciulli for a third.)
Joe Molnar, outstanding CMU defenseman, drives on opponent.
kscynjj lnfDu0 cud .ncswhudDu0
Davis
Kenworthy
Callaway
Farman
Goldsmith
Grimm
Jacobs
Team
.ncswhudDu0
Hart
Team
Goals
3
ji
1
1
0
0
0
7
Games
2
2
Assists
1
1
2
0
I
1
1
7
Points
1
14
Goals Against
7
7
Goals/Avg._
3.50 j
3.50 1

---------------------------------------------------

Page 26-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, April 9, 1974
Hockey All-Stars Named Can the Bunch Pro-Opener
mR :kff tondPoh
The WPHIA coaches have rather sur
prisingly selected only two C-MU hockey 
players to the 1973-74 All-Star squad.
Jeff Hart, senior AMS major from Tonowanda, New York, was chosen as the goal
ie. He is joined by teammate Mike Ken
worthy of Chester Depot, Vermont, who 
was one of the four centers picked.
League champion Pittsburgh led in num
ber of selectees with four, including Most
Final 1973-1974 League Standings
Valuable Player Rick Vernon at a wing 
post. Other Pitt members are center Charly 
Hagins, winger Denny Browne, and defenseman Glenn Hyde.
The remaining positions were filled by 
center Len Hohenfeld and wing Dave 
Vance of St. Vincent; defenseman C. H. 
Bender and center Tim Boylan of Duquesne; wing Peter Hanson of Indiana; and 
center Ray Krueger of Penn State/ 
McKeesport.
wLTPts.GFGA
13112510122
1212246738
4831 14561
483114669
411082 3678
311173259
University of Pittsburgh 
Carnegie-Nellon University 
f)uquesne Univeristy 
Indiana Univ. of Pennsylvania 
Penn State / McKeesport 
St. Vincent College
*Duquesne awarded third place with a 1-0-2 season record against Indiana Univ. 
[2^ 
Texas Instruments
cAAnDuwr
Leslie Dresbold
cr cu 'shlwfnuDl TcslPscwnf
Retail Sales & 
Repair Dealer
jnf Mhrwhfu khuurysBcuDc
 ALLEGHENY  BUTLER FAYETTE
 WESTMORELAND  ARMSTRONG  BEAVER
 WASHINGTON  INDIANA LAWRENCE
LESLIE DRESBOLDLESLJE DRESBOLD
We have ALL MODELS 
IN STOCK including:
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
SR-11 SQUARE ROOT
Electronic Calculator
109 Powerful Portable Guaranteed
features 
Constant, Pi, 
and Exponents
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
Ti-2500 Data-Math Electronic Calculator
with
Rechargeable
Adapters6995 Pocket Size
TRADE-INS ACCEPTED----BUDGET
MASTER CHARGE and BANKAMERICARD
LESLIE DRESBOLD TYstoresER
DOWNTOWNMONROEVILLESOUTH HILLS
Fort Pitt Typewriter4003 Wm. Penn Hwy.South Hills Village
Dial 281-8320Park-Shop 22nr. GBDial 563 0330
Daily 9 to 6Dial 372-8138Dial 833-3299
Daily 11-8; Sat. 10 to 5Daily 10 to 9:30
SHARPSBURG
925 Main Street 
MAIN STORE 
Dial 781-1308 
Daily 9 to 5:30
do it again?
mR rTk CwxaAo
Intramural softball presents an interest
ing situation this year as the Wild Bunch, 
the IM major league football and basketball 
titalists, have a shot at becoming the first 
intramural team in several years to win all 
three major titles.
Defending 1973 champs. Beta-A, should 
offer stiff competition along with 1973 
runner-ups, PKT (Beta defeated PKT in the 
final 11-1). Other frats fielding major 
league teams are SAE (A and B team), 
PiKA, Kappa Sig, and ATO.
The Oakland Gnurples, a merger of the 
tough footbal Oakland Dolphins and the 
Purple Gnurples, might come on stronger 
than most people would suspect.
The Big Tight Ends, minor league 
basketball champs, and Gommys Commies 
(a renamed Radics Raiders), offer power
ful hitting and physical size.
NSLPP, composed of most of the 
Coaches All-Stars football team, have the 
athletic ability to be a standout.
Filling ou the major ranks will be the 
Shrinks, GSIA Masters, Spodi-o-ties, and 
the Soft Balls.
The intermediate and minor leagues are 
up for grabs, as the many new teams will 
compete against the fraternities for the 
crowns.
The action should be quite hectic as the 
record 54 teams with their 720 participants 
battle it out. As one philosopher put it, 
Anything can happen and probably will.
Smoko Wins 
M.V. Wrestler
mR :kff tondPoh
The grapplers of C-MU have selected 
junior Ron Smoko as their 1973-74 team 
MVP.
Smoko, a mechanical engineering major 
from West Mifflin, had a 3-3-1 record this 
season. He didnt expect the honor, 
though.
There were a couple of guys with 
better records than me, he said. When I 
went to get my letter jacket and saw MVP 
next to my name on the list I thought it 
was just a joke at first.
Smoko wrestled a year for the Univer
sity of Maryland frosh before transfering to 
C-MU.
Area tennis fans can now purchase ad
vance tickets for the Pittsburgh Triangles 
home opener to be played at the Civic 
Arena on May 7, against Billie Jean King 
and the Philadelphia Freedoms.
Chuck Reichblum, President/General 
manager of the Triangles announced that 
tickets are now on sale at all Kaufmanns 
stores, Gimbels (downtown)* Hornes 
(downtown) and the Civic Arena Box 
Office at Gate One.
The opener will feature a head-on clash 
between two of the top women players in 
the world when Pittsburghs Evonne Goolagong squares off with Freedoms playercoach, Billie Jean King in the womens 
singles event. The match will be the second 
half of back-to-back openers between the 
two turnpike rivals, the first taking place 
on May 6 at the Philadelphia Spectrum, in 
the World Team Tennis Grand Opener. 
The Triangles will also showcase playercoach Ken Rosewall, who will start for the 
locals in the mens singles event.
Rosewall recently announced that the 
Tris will go with Gerald Battrick and 
Peggy Michel in the mixed doubles event in 
the Grand Opener.
Rosewall cited experience as the key 
factor in his decision to start Battrick and 
Michel, both seasoned doubles players, 
over the Tris other mixed doubles team of 
Vitas Gerulaitis and Isabel Fernandez. 
Rosewall acknowledged that Gerulaitis and 
Fernandez would be used in the mixed 
event equally throughout the season.
The Freedoms havent announced a 
starting lineup to date, with the exception 
of Mrs. King in the womens singles event, 
although they have a wealth of world class 
players to choose from. Heading the list are 
Brian Fairlie, Fred Stolle, Buster Mottram, 
and Kathy Kuykendall, with more 
singnings forthcoming.
Each WTT nights match will consist of
three events, mens singles, womens 
singles, and mixed doubles. A total nights 
play will last approximately two and a half 
hours, and the winner of the nights 
match will be the team that wins the most 
total games in the three events.
All twenty-two Triangles home matches 
will be played at the Civic Arena, under the 
open roof, weather permitting, with a start
ing time of 7:30 pm.
MONROEVILLE MALL  LOWER LEVEL
Next to GIMBEL'S ... 372-5258 ... Daily 10 to 9:30
Cant Be a Sunday Driver? 6wday.
PACT Of THE 
TmgmxmHm TWeWk
12X MEYRAN AVE. 62H

---------------------------------------------------

Tartans Top Terriers
with a Well-Balanced Effort
THE TARTAN-Tuesday, April 9. 1974-Page 27
sfrOW . y0ll^
SUPPORTmR :kff tondPoh
The C-MU track men had their Tuesday 
meet with Westminster cancelled for the 
third year in a row, but bested Hiram in an 
away match last Saturday, 76-69, in a 
much closer contest than had been ex
pected. Ken KJoes took first in the mile 
and three mile, Neville Evans won the 440, 
and Nate Berger, last years MVP, ran first 
in the 220.
Arnold Johnson registered a 194 to 
win the broad jump, while Mike Haupt
copped the pole vault with a 12 try. The 
Tartans swept the triple jump, as Wade 
Gregson was followed by Ray Smith and 
Arnold Johnson.
For the first time in years C-MU was 
able to compete in the weight events. Foot
ball linemen Phil Lagatta and Rudy Woodhouse took first and second in the javelin 
toss, and Woodhouse added a second in the 
shot put.
The Tartans run at W & J on April 10, 
with their first home meet this Friday, 
April 12, against Grove City.
Buggy Preparations 
Are Well Underway
mR yAk 3Aooku
Bad weather and accidents have beset 
this years buggy races. Sweepstakes Chair
man Gary Turner has been forced to cancel 
two freerolls due to inclement weather, 
and one freeroll (which started late because 
Security did not arrive on time) had to be 
stopped early when a buggy ran into a 
concrete abuttment at the Hill 3 turn. The 
driver of that buggy required two stitchesSeason
Starts .Minus CMU
Defending champion Hiram and 
perennial power Allegheny rank as pre
season favorites to capture the 1974 Presi
dents Athletic Conference baseball champ
ionship.
Hiram finished 10-4 in the conference 
last season, winning the title by two games 
over Allegheny, which finished 8-6. The 
Terriers have three all-PAC choices, pitcher 
^ Mark Thorpe, shortstop Jim Bollenbacher, 
and outfielder Don Brunetti returning, in 
addition to pitcher Paul Koutouch, who 
was an all-PAC choice two years ago and 
compiled a 5-1 record last season. In addi
tion, the Terriers have practically all of 
their starting team returning.
Allegheny will lose all-conference stars 
Steve Lanier, a third baseman, and pitcher 
, Lou Forbringer, who was drafted by the 
Kansas City Royals. However, outfielder 
Pete Maropis, who batted .436 to lead the 
league last season, and catcher Sean 
OLeary, another all-conference selection, 
return. Joining them is outfielder Jeff 
Carroll, a two-time all-PAC choice.
The stiffest competition should come 
from John Caroll, which finished 6-6 in its 
* first year of PAC baseball last season, and 
should improve, and Bethany, which also 
finished with a 6-6 mark.
The season will open on April 5 with 
Allegheny visiting Thiel for a doubleheader. On Saturday, April 6, Bethany will 
travel to Cleveland for a pair with Case 
Western Reserve, while John Carroll will 
visit Washington & Jefferson. Defending 
& champion Hiram is not scheduled for 
league action until April 13 at Bethany. 
Carnegie-Mellon does npt compete in base
ball. 8
in the forehead. Fortunately he was not 
going at raceday speeds. Turner announced 
that he will try to arrange Saturday morn
ing freerolls to compensate for the lost 
practice time.
This year, the races will be held on 
Friday, April 19-the preliminaries and 
Saturday, April 20-the championship. 
Buggy nurds all over C-MU are hopeful that 
the good weather will hold up until then, 
so that they can avoid last years predica
ment, when the buggies ran in frosty 35 
degree weather. Anyone interested in 
seeing the buggies before raceday is wel
come to come out to push practice, which 
is held every night at 11:00 on Frew 
Street, or freeroll, which is held on Sunday 
morning from sunrise to 9:00 a.m.
Get 
Your 
Streaker 
T-shirt
Its the ONLY T-shirt endorsed by THE INTERNATIONAL STREAKERS ASSOC. 
Ollly 3^ each OR 2 fOT 0 postpaid
0 r-, . ^ n
1 ? ;< K *WOO 0J CE E*-* ai O<fl o .<0 = %
5 0 E
 11 1- a 5
NAME
ADDRESS
ZIP
S M L 
? ? ? $3.95 each I tax 
$6.95 Ur 2 I "<1
Total 
$__________
KEYPUNCHING
INFORMATION SYSTEMS CURRENTLY OFFERS PROFESSION
AL KEYPUNCH AND VERIFYING SERVICES ON A TIMEAVAILABLE BASIS. THE CHARGE FOR THESE SERVICES IS 
$5.00/HR AND MUST BE PAID IN CASH OR CHARGED TO A 
CMU ACCOUNT NUMBER. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION IN
QUIRE AT THE I/O COUNTER, 3RD FLOOR SCIENCE HALL, 
OR CALL X583.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 28THE TARTANTuesday, April 9, 1974
Fifth Annual CMIJ Film Festival 
new cinema by emu students 
April t J V I t. pm, PF10C, Free
8:30 PM
$2.00-12,13,15,16,17,&18 th 
$2.25-19,20th 
TICKETS-BAKER HALL 
SKIBO DESK & AT DOOR 
SKIBO BALLROOMOF THE VALLEY SCOTCHn SODA 1974
ft.
