December 9, 1971, Volume 71/ Number 12
Photo by Ed Levine
Presidential Candidate 
Speaks at CMU
*
Marilyn Turner
Early Monday morning, Skibo ball
rooms placid atmosphere was exploded by a 
ninety-pound electric dynamo. Shirley Chis
holm, the black congresswoman from New 
Yorks 15th District, and now self-con
firmed presidential candidate, had arrived. 
)Her time was limited because of a crowded 
schedule, so those who had expected a 
lengthy oration were somewhat disap
pointed. Instead, she spoke for ten minutes 
about social revolution in the United States 
and the key roles of blacks and women in it. 
She lashed out at the stereotyping and 
psychological slavery that racists and anti
feminists have inflicted upon both groups, 
^and called for the utilization of the best 
brain power available, despite sex or race.
After brief opening remarks, she was 
questioned by a three member panel, Dr. 
Shirley Angrist, Thomas M. Kerr and Tanya 
Allmond. The panelists probed her views on 
welfare reform, daycare centers, Vietnam, 
prison reform, the support of National 
Womens Political Caucus, and campaign 
funding. She answered each question in her 
characteristically forceful, self-confident 
manner.
The congresswoman insisted that 
training the underprivileged should prepare 
them for our highly technical society, and 
that each family should be guaranteed a 
$5500 annual income. She is a sponsor of 
the original daycare center bill, but feels that 
in its revised form it will be vetoed by the 
current administration. Ms. Chisholm con
siders Vietnam an immoral, unnecessary war 
which is a drain on American tax dollars. She 
stated there is a definite need for prison 
reform. Considering the problem an ancient 
one, she explained that people tend to forget 
that prisoners are still human beings, and 
deserve to be treated in a human manner.
Ms. Chisholm brought the house 
down with her response to a question con
cerning campaign funding. She stated that 
she was not in competition with those who 
were backed by big corporations and banks. 
She said that these are the sort of institu
tions that control the lives of individuals in 
our society. Congresswoman Chisholm feels 
it her job to fight against these money 
grabbers.
Ms. Chisholm wrapped up her discus
sion with a question and answer period with 
the news media and students. Her answer to 
the question, under any circumstances 
would you consider accepting a nomination 
for Vice-President? sums up her platform 
as well as her ideals. She replied that she is an 
American citizen running for the presidency 
of the U.S. The fact that she is both a woman 
and black must be accepted, and she does so 
with pride. She continued, saying that 
women must unite and wear their woman
hood with pride and dignity as blacks have 
united in their blackness. Women, according 
to the Congresswoman, must assert their self 
confidence so that they can shake up soci
ety. Ms. Chisholm feels that shaking up 
society is imperative if it is to be reformed. 
I gotta shake things up, she said, thats 
my job!
Congresswoman Chisholm was brought 
to the CMU campus by the Y Office of 
Community Affairs and the Women of CMU 
as part of a lecture series on sexism in 
society.
Don't Sit 
In The Draft
Under Selective Service regulations, stu
dents and others with deferments who are at 
least twenty years old and hold lottery num
bers above 125 may cancel their deferments 
and thus eliminate virtually any possibility of 
ever being drafted. Such action would place 
these persons in a second priority group that 
would possibly be called to active duty in the 
event of a national emergency.
The Selective Service System has an
nounced that all men who have numbers 125 
and below and do not have exemptions or 
deferments will be drafted between now and 
March. The announcement does not effect 
men born in 1952 who were assigned lottery 
numbers this summer. They are not eligible 
for the draft until next year.
To cancel his deferment a man must write 
his local draft board before December 31 ask
ing that his deferment be rescinded. The 
board must comply with his request.
The Selective Service officials have stated 
that those who cancel their deferments and 
move into the low priority pool will not be 
called into service unless annual draft calls 
exceed 400,000 men. There has been no year 
since World War II when calls have been this 
high.
Mrs. Ryan of the CMU Selective Service 
office urges students who wish to cancel their 
deferment to do so very soon. Letters of can
celation mustbe postmarked by December 31. 
A form letter has been drafted by Mr. Thomas 
Kerr of the ACLU and copies are available at 
the CMU Selective Service Office, Warner 
Hall.
Student Senate 
President 
Resigns
At Tuesdays Student Senate meeting 
Vince Misitano, the President of Student 
Government, resigned. The Chairman of the 
Senate, Mike Garl, succeeded Vince as 
president.
In a letter to the Chairman of Senate, 
Vince said that rising pressures in my aca
demic activities ... were responsible for 
his resignation. Vince is enrolled in GSI A.
A new Chairman of Student Senate, Jon 
Fricker, was elected to replace Mike Garl.
As part of a reorganization of Student 
Senate, new standing committee chairmen 
were elected: Tanya Allmond, finance com
mittee; John Bell, general campus commit
tee; Jon Fricker, rules committee; and 
Dennis Brandi, information committee.
The reorganization of Student Senate 
will hopefully increase Senates output by 
assigning most of the work load to 
committees.
The senators present at Tuesdays 
meeting chose the committee they wished to 
be on; senators not present at the meeting 
will have to choose between the two 
committees not filled-the Rules and Infor
mation Committees.
The senators not at the meeting might be 
a little displeased; but the senators are sup
posed to attend Senate meetings.
From the President 
Into the Future
Marc Field 
Grace DAlo
So, Carnegie-Mellon needs a new president. 
Most students agree that the new president 
should reflect the consideration of all the 
constituencies on campus. In fact, everybody 
seems to agree on this point.
According to the by-laws of the University, 
the trustees have the power to make appoint
ments. Previous appointments for the presi
dency have been made almost entirely by the 
Board of Trustees with consultation of fac
ulty committees. The current search proce
dure will attempt to include the following 
constituencies: alumnae, students, faculty, 
and, of course, trustees.
On December 3, 1971 the Faculty Senate 
of CMU endorsed the creation of an Academic 
Search Committee to ensure meaningful par
ticipation of Faculty and academic deans in 
the selection of a new president for CMU.
The primary responsibilities of the Acade
mic Search Committee shall be the following:
1. To effect maximum communication be
tween the Committee and members of the 
faculty on recommendations for candidates 
for the office of president as well as desired 
attributes for such office.
2. To consult freely with the Trustee Com
mittee on the Presidency with regard to the 
criteria for selection of candidates and recom
mendations for the office of president. This 
shall include full sharing of information from 
one committee to the other, joint meetings, 
and attendance, by invitation, of the chair
man of the Trustee committee at meetings of 
the ACS.
3. To participate in the interviewing and 
evaluating of candidates. This shall include 
endorsement of the candidate who shall be 
recommended to the full Board of Trustees.
4. To consult with any other search com
mittees on the presidency that are established.
This committee represents all the colleges 
of CMU. Commenting on the committees 
power, the chairman, Daniel P. Resnick, said, 
We have every reason to believe that no 
candidate will be chosen who is unacceptable 
to the academic community. Assuming that 
the Academic Search Community represents 
the entire academic community this is a 
comforting statement. The committees 
formed from the Alumnae Organization and 
Student Senate cannot speak with such assur
ance and there was no mention of their repre
sentation on the Faculty Senate Committee.
When asked about the possibility of stu
dents participating on the Senate Committee, 
Mr. Resnick said he would welcome their part
icipation if such a procedure was endorsed by 
the Trustees.
continued on p. 2
^^EeTTarrTherTwenTTrpI^
she was told that she could not use th< 
handball courts because she would have tc 
go through the Mens Locker Room to get tc 
them. Fortunately, Mr. Haines straightenec 
out the situation and authorized Jans ad 
mittance to a handball court. Its nice tc 
know that women are allowed to do a littU 
(rfjthe^sweatin^ion^in^^

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan, Thursday, December 9, 19712
Editors Note
I went to the Registrars Office last Friday, 
introduced myself as the new editor of the 
TARTAN, and asked if it would be possible to 
get into the gym early on Monday in order to 
cover pre-registration. I was told that they 
would make no exceptions and that I would 
just have to ask my professors to be excused 
from classes. After I explained my position 
i again, I spoke to Mr. Rogers about getting 
. such permission. I mentioned using my press 
ipass which evoked quite a laugh. TARTAN 
} press passes are not honored, I was told.
Mr. Rogers gave me an old add-drop slip 
with the words Staff Worker-Registration 
stamped on the back. This, I was told, would 
be honored.
It was. I was admitted to the gym early on 
Monday afternoon, after slipping through the 
surprising small line of wet students waiting in 
the stairwell. I sat on the steps, and spoke with 
Mr. Rogers about the registration procedure, 
about the leaks in the gym roof, and people 
slipping on the plastic floor cover.
But it seems to me that something is 
wrong. Do people really have scorn for the 
TARTAN? Is the newspaper so poor that our 
own administration does not respect the 
TARTANs right and obligation to cover cam
pus activities with as much cooperation as 
possible? Does the newspaper really only
1
serve as an announcement sheet, and an outlet 
for advertisers to reach a large market?
A newspaper is perhaps one of the 
strongest organs of communication, and thus 
carries with it a great responsibility. We can
not exist in a vacuum, nor can we carry out 
the responsibility of accurate and in depth 
coverage of the campus without the interest 
and support of the campus community. Our 
role is to inform the campus community of 
what is happening here, and, whenever pos
sible, why it is happening. Our staff and our 
paper must gain the respect of the campus in 
order to do this.
Our goal is to involve as many people in the 
writing of the newspaper as is possible. We can 
only be representative of the campus if there 
is representation on our staff, and if contribu
tions to the paper come from all levels of the 
campus hierarchy, not just the students, but 
faculty, administration and workers as well. 
We are the campus newspaper, and would like 
that label to gain real meaning.
If you dont like the TARTAN, tell us. 
Write us a letter. Work on the staff. But please, 
get involved with us. Help us make the TAR
TAN an essential instrument of communica
tion and information for this campus. Help us 
carry out our responsibility, and share in our 
potential power and leadership.
Letters to the Editor
Mr. Stampton Crimped???
Reading your article Pittsburgh vs. 
New York raises in me a serious concern for 
the mental stability of Pittsburghers in 
general. Fortunately, 1 havent come in con
tact with many other native Pittsburghers 
who exhibit such acute signs of a persecu
tion complex complicated by extreme 
feelings of inferiority as you demonstrated 
in your reflection over the good and bad 
points of New York and Pittsburgh. For 
your sake Im glad that the advanced educa
tional level of the majority of Tech students 
will enable them to overlook the blatant 
violation of expository writing technique 
that you made and take the lack of fulfill
ment of the stated intentions of your letter 
in stride. Where are, exactly, your points 
about what is good and bad in both cities 
All that one reads past this magnanimous 
statement is a series of violent protestations 
about your unappreciated city.
There are several vague and undi
rected sentences in your article, but the 
initial one makes me very curious: But 
perhaps the mental state that you have, I 
have too. The only sense I can make from 
this statement is that you are projecting 
your seriously uninformed, sadly defensive 
mental state onto your peers. Your lsit of 
the faceless millions of New York leaves out 
the largest minority group of Manhatten 
(excuse meNew York is, in actuality, 
bigger than Manhatten)the kikes. Im 
hoping that you were trying to be gracefully 
vindictive with your ethnic slang . . . but the 
important thing here is the fact that I do 
believe someone with your mental con
dition would view any city, other than a 
place where you could leave your campus 
and in 15 minutes meet someone from your 
old neighborhood or someone you went to 
high school with. No place is heartless and 
cold unless you are. 1 didnt grow up in New 
YorkI came from a town where you could 
drive to total, uninhabited wilderness in half 
an hourbut I dont find New York cold or 
heartless-you must look past faces and con
crete, sir, or you will never be able to survive 
anywhere outside your obviously narrow 
environment.
Since you had already made it clear 
that your knowledge of and exposure to 
New York is seriously limited I will overlook 
your comparison of the Allegheney to the 
Hudson (or perhaps the East River? You 
failed to mention any names) We do know 
that you worked in a steel mill, but as for 
your sailing experience around the metro
politan area; Id say thats highly question
able.
Aside from the mention of the cul
tural comparison between New York and 
Pittsburgh (which was, by the way, used in a 
totally defensive manner for Pittsburgh) 
your article deteriorates into a self-righteous 
morality lecture to your fellow students. We 
will disregard this part of the letter and allow 
you to do your literary primal-scream in 
peace. Back to culture-do you mean to tell 
me with all the sublime beings involved with 
your major US corporations and the vast 
amount of intellectual sophisticates in our 
highly acclaimed campus community that 
we dont have enough people in Pittsburgh 
to sell out the Syria Mosque for a concert by 
Artur Rubinstein at 8:00 the night of the 
performance? Or have you never heard of 
him? I was sure radios, T.V.s and phono 
graphs had come to Pittsburgh by now. ALL 
the college kids have them.
Theres little else to say. 1 do hope 
that you can overcome your paranoia and 
enter the world of reality. Its a big placewatch out.
Wendy Goidell
Dear Editor:
Student Government is alive and well at 
Carnegie-Mellon.
Michael Garl 
President.
'66 AQUA CHEVY 
BEL-AIRE
 EXCELLENT CONDITION 
4 Door. 4 New Tires (2 are Snow Tires!) 
plus a Spare Tire, Heater and Radio.
S 750
CALL: 486-8567
President
continued from p. 1
Fred C. Foy, chairman of the Board of 
Trustees asked the Student Senate to appoint 
a search committee to make suggestions as to 
the qualities of the new president and to gen
erate names for candidates. The Student 
search committee will be chaired by Willie 
Thompson, a sophomore in mathematics. Stu
dents wishing to work on this committee 
should contact him in care of A Phi O, campus 
mail.
Mr. Foy emphasized the desirability of 
having each of the four committees work 
separately. By independent contributions he 
felt that there would be more input and less 
compromise among the constituencies. But 
considering the amount of information to be 
reviewed and the relative power of the Board 
of Trustees to the other three committees, it 
seems to this reporter that there are great 
advantages to them working jointly.
Except for the initial formulation of ob
jectives and qualities in appointing a presi
dent, and, perhaps nominations, the frag
mentation of the campus would be a waste of 
effortmuch of the busy work of committees 
would necessarily be duplicated in another for 
full and responsible review.
Mr. Foy envisions an executive committee 
emerging from the four separate committees 
after the list of candidates has been cut down 
to 8 or 10 names. This seems to be a very good 
idea. Perhaps it would be even more valuable 
to appoint this committee before the search 
procedure begins to act as a forum for all the 
groups on campus who feel that they have 
something to contribute to the final selection. 
The Executive Committee could periodically 
organize the input from all the committees in 
order to make sure ther is complete communi
cation from one group to another.
Finally, the Executive Committee would 
endorse a candidate who shall be recommend
ed to the Board of Trustees. Unless the com
mittees work together in interviewing and 
evaluation of nominations, this endorsement 
will not represent a majority opinion of the 
academic community.
Preliminary review as well as final consider
ation, must be a function of all constituencies 
in order for a representative choice to be 
made.
But I suppose its all in how you look at it.
Co-Editors-in-Chief .... Pete Georgiades
Jan Rosen
Business Manager...........Beverly Noretsky (
Design Director..............Marilyn Shenker
News Editor..............................Bob Boyle
Features Editor.......................Tom Davis
Sports Editor.........................Jude Heller
Photography Director . . . .Neal Binstock 
News Staff . . . Renee Banks, Nate Burden 
Grace D'Alo, Anne Friedman, Jon Manon 
Marilyn Turner, Sylvia Wilson 
Features Staff . .Jon Agatston, Leslie Bram*9 
Craig Collins, Walter Koehler, Ron Lasssr 
Terence N. Palso, Stephen Saunders 
Sports Staff Lauren Hutton, Jon Swierzewski 
Scotch Guard, Dennis Sullivan 
Jim Powers, Peter Schuller 
David Aber, Chuck Bond 
Photography Staff . Eliot Arons, Jay Caras
Ed Levine
Copy Staff . . Leslie Bram, Marilyn Shenker*)
..........................................Business Staff.
National Advertising..............Alice Bright
Local Advertising.................Mary Lipsett
Staff . Eugene Kerekes, Mike Swartzlander
Published every Thursday during the aca
demic year at Carnegie-Mellon University, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial 
and Business offices in Skibo 50, Carnegie-J 
Mellon University. Telephone (412) 
682-4557.
for
lessRUGS
with your ID Card1000 9x12 Rugs
S15 S19 $29 S49
also 6x9s, T2x12s, 12x15s, etc.
STUDENT FURNITURE
Director choirs, butterfly ctiairs, 
lamps, etc. Larger furniture thru
wholesale showrooms.CHASE'S
5426 Walnut St., Shadysid* 
Open Daily 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. 
Saturday 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.)
For Information call 621-1025
Management Jobs For Engineers
If you will be receiving a bachelor's degree in Mechanical or Civil En
gineering this June, here is an opportunity for a program leading to near-future 
managerial responsibilities in an engineering environment.
Limbach Company, with six plants and construction activities spread 
broadly over the United States, is one of he world's largest mechanical contractors 
in the construction field and is searching for a few June grads to enter its Project 
Administration Training Program. The program is highly varied and includes 
training both on the job and by group seminars to orient the young engineer to 
this dynamic and high paying industry (no long, tedious flours on drafting boards 
involved). This organization, with $60 million per annum sales, is solidly founded 
and is small enough so that each engineer's abilities are easily recognized and 
rewarded.
A representative of Limbach Company will be conducting campus inter
views on January 19, 1972. Consult your Placement Office to review our career 
opportunities brochure and arrange for a personal interview.
 We are an eqtial opportunity employer! 
Decmbr9 r,c1b7V

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements
|
The Student Government Research commit
tee is looking for interested hard working 
people concerned about "who will be the next 
president. If interested contact Willie R. 
Thompson at 687-5532 or Campus Mail Box 
727.
^ATTENTION WOMEN: Four courses are
being offered spring semester 1972 primarily 
of interest to CMU women but open to all 
students. These are:
1. Problems in American History--Women 
taught by Mary Gordon MWF 10:30 in BH 
132H (79-224, 12 units).
2. The Individual and the Family taught by 
Helene Borke TuTh 9:30-11:20 in MM 127
tp( 64-228; 12 units).
3. Man, Food, and Environment taught by 
Dorothy Kolodner TuTh 10:30-12:00 in 
MM320 (64-230, 12 units).
4. Determination, Segregation, and Busi
ness Practices taught by Nancy Gordon MTh 
3:30-5:30 in GSIA 9 (45-865, 3 or 6 units). 
This is a six week mini graduate course which 
undergraduates may schedule.
The Carnegie Technical will be celebrating its
50th anniversary next semester. A 50-60 page 
anniversary issue is being planned for distribu
tion in February. It will include graphic art, 
technical and critical articles, poetry and fict
ion. Submissions or questions should be sent 
to Carnegie Technical, Box 16, Campus Mail.
possible, material should be submitted 
before the Christmas vacation. Final deadline 
for submissions is the end of the first week of 
classes.
The department of Modern Languages will
administer Proficiency Tests in French, Ger
man, Spanish and Russian on Saturday, Janu
ary 15, at 10:00 AM, in the Language Labora
tory (MM 310).
Any student may take one of these tests; 
there is no charge. The test takes 95 minutes.
Students who demonstrate competence at 
the intermediate level will satisfy their college 
and/or departmental requirements in a for
eign language, (undergraduates only)
Students may also take this test in order to 
establish their level of competence in the lan
guage gained through self-study, study 
abroad, etc., or to determine their level of 
achievement in order to continue further 
study in that language. These tests are primar
ily designed for students who have had two 
years of college language instruction or more, 
although this is not a prerequisite for taking 
the test.
Students wishing to take one of these tests 
should sign up in the Modern Languages De'partment office, BH 232-B, before Thursday, 
January 13, 4:00 PM.
The Western Pennsylvania PUBLIC INTER
EST RESEARCH GROUP, a student profes
sional investigative team which researches and 
acts on problems in the public interest, is 
organizing at CMU, and desperately needs 
workers. PIRG proposes to advocate thepublic interest where decisions of policy are 
being made in the fields of consumer protect
ion, race and sex discrimination, health and 
safety, pollution, etc. Interested people 
should write box 28, campus mail, or call 
681-9154 or 683-8992.
At its maeting on October 27,1971 the Cam
pus Parking Committee recommended to Vice 
President Strathmeyer that a Staff Parking 
Committee be formed in order to bring the 
parking ideas, concerns, and problemsof nonacademic staff into the formation of campus 
policies, procedures, and regulations. The 
Campus Parking Committee has now been 
formed and its first meeting is scheduled for 
December 13 at 3:00 PM. The agenda for the 
first meeting includes organization of the 
committee and the establishment of object
ives with some immediate tasks for the com
mittee work.
Membership on the Staff Parking Commit
tee has been drawn from the five major nonacademic staff occupation groups as defined 
by the EEO classifications descriptions. Mem
bers of the committee are: Charles Cramer, 
Carol Jones, Victor Lechowicz, Gervaise 
McKeown, Francis O'Connor, Sally Rosemeyer, Francis, Samuels, Ethel Strasser, and 
Lori Wiles.
The chairman of the Staff Parking Com-' 
mittee, who is to be selected by the members 
of the Staff Parking Committee, will be a 
member of the Campus Parking Committee.
Marx Brothers--Dec. 10 Duck Soup, Dec. 17
Coconuts. At the Coop. 7, 9, & 11 PM. 
$1.00.
Alpha Phi Omega will collect books for next
semester book exchange from Monday, De
cember 13 to Thursday, December 16 at the 
hours of 1 PM to 4:30 PM. BRING YOUR 
BOOKS.
Films
CMtl CAMPUS:
THE ROCKING HORSE WINNER: Film 
Arts. Thursday, Dec. 9th, 4:30, 7:00,9:30 
PM; Porter Hall 100. Admission: Film Arts 
Ticket.
BLOW-UP: Activities Board. Friday, Dec. 
10th, 7:00, 9:15 PM, Doherty Hall 2210. 
Admission: $.75 with Activities Board 
card, $1.00 without.
ALFIE: MDC. Saturday, Dec. 11th, 5:30, 
8:00, 10:30 PM, Doherty Hall 2210. Ad
mission: Free.
TELEVISION:
CHILLER THEATRE: Channel Eleven 
Saturday, Dec. 12th, 11:30 PM.
FRANKENSTEIN CONQUERS THE 
WORLD 
GHOST ON THE LOOSE
The Tartan, Thursday, December 9, 1971
Classified Ads
Wanted: Will pay $30 for fraternity-type
beer mug that says "Carnegie Tech," "Car
negie Institute of Technology/' etc. Will 
reimburse for shipping. Contact: R.
Grafrath, 651 Cambridge Rd., Paramus, NJ 
07652.
Roommates UnlimitedA service agency
Your solution 566-1277.
HOUSE FOR RENT: Faculty or graduate
students. Denniston near Forbes. 3 bed
rooms. $160+. 521-6493.
Point of 
information: 
fjrad Schools
Students considering graduate study will find 
the latest information on American and Cana
dian programs in 178* academic areas at the 
Hunt Library. General statistical data about 
graduate institutions, graphs showing which 
universities offer work in the various major 
^disciplines, and two-page write-ups prepared 
by faculty officers are contained in each of 
the seven volumes of the Annual Guides to 
Graduate Study, 1972 edition,just published.
The new Guides have been sent without 
charge to deans, professors, and central of
fices at universities all across the country, 
with the support and cooperation of the uni
versities represented by full descriptions in 
Jjhe books. These universities include all major 
campuses and state systems, and their partici
pation demonstrates their awareness of the 
importance of communicating to prospective 
students.
The underlying goal of the Guides disci
plinary arrangement and special page design is 
to make it possible for students to consider a 
maximum number of graduate school op
tions. This is done by properly presenting the 
great wealth of information available today. 
We believe that students should make their 
own conscious educational choices. The idea 
that only a computer can deal effectively with 
ones future is unsatisfactory. It should be 
emphasized for students that their futures are 
jn their own hands, that the situation is com
pletely manageable, that its entirely possible 
|i investigate graduate schools in a systematic 
and comprehensive manner and come up with 
a sensible choice. Thats what the Guides are 
fr These are recent comments of Peter W. 
Hegener, founder and publisher of the Guides, 
ar*d former director of graduate school advis
ing at Princeton University.
All students are urged to consult their faculty advisers copy of the Guide covering 
?tfleir areas of interest, or to use the set sent to 
the library.
Real World
Steve Jurman
Believing that a weakness exists in the 
present university educational system, the 
CMU Y-Office of Community Affairs is 
offering a new service to students.
To assist in complementing classroom 
work with practical real world experiences, 
the Office will place interested students in 
off-campus positions relevant to their particu
lar needs. Such placement might serve as Field 
work needed for a regular course or be the 
vehicle for an independent study project.
A faculty-student committee operating 
through the Office will be available to assist in 
locating a faculty sponsor and arranging aca
demic credit for such independent study pro
jects. Several students have already been suc
cessfully placed.
Information volunteer services of Alle
gheny County will provide a link to most 
health and welfare agencies in the city, and 
placements in government and industry are 
being investigated. One example of the many 
opportunities available now is the Allegheny 
County Bureau of Consumer Protection, 
which needs investigators in various areas.
It may be possible to place students for the 
upcoming Spring Semester, as well as for the 
summer. Anyone interested or seeking further 
information should inquire at the Y-Officeof 
Community Affairs, Room 57, Skibo.
RECORDS
BUDGET AND CUTOUT 
CLASSICAL AND FOLK U^s
ON SALE 
from 65< - $1.90
   AT 
THE OAKLAND CO-OP
RECORD DEPT.
Ward and the Boulevard of AHiet 
INFO: 5214174
BANGLA DESH
benefit concert
featuring
.50 CRIGINAL MUSIC C1
4:Manassas
and
Blugrass
o
Sat. Dec. 11 8:30pm Skibo ballroom
ONE PERFORMANCE ONLY ALL TICKETS *1.50
an Ananda Margo presentation

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan, Thursday, December 9, 19714
Muck rakers
YOU MAY WIN
Get Acquainted with SEARS. 
Bring This Coupon-You May Win!
Deposit Coupon ot JFANS JOINT in Your Sears Store BelowDrawing Dec. 22nd
1st PRIZE:
SEARS 12-INCH DIAGONAL Name 
PORTABLE COLOR TV
2nd PRIZE:
OUR PORTABLE AM-FM 
CASETTE TAPF RECORDER
Address..............................................................
City.........................................State..................
College...................................................Phone.......................
Enter only on Original Coupon clipped from this paperWinners will be notified.
ALLEGHENY CENTER MALL .....................322-8500
BEAVER VALLEY MALL ............................775-5535
EAST LIBERTY .............................................661-6500
PENN CENTER MONROEVILLE .................824-8000
SOUTH HILLS VILLAGE .............................833-4000
WEST MIFFLIN ............................................466-8121
GREENSBURG ...........................................837-4000
Pho tbyEo dLbhLe a tbyEo vb iovEtn MyoarlT veu cyF Washington, franklin mall.........228-1120
Leslie Bram 
John Gross
Muckraketo search for and either charge 
or expose (in newspapers, etc.) corruption 
by public officials, businessmen, etc. ; A rake 
for gathering or spreading muck. 
(Websters)
Be that as it will, welcome to our new 
column. Motivated by deeply-rooted convict
ions (oh, come now!), we have joined the 
features staff to inform you, our readers 
(hopefully) about what we feel to be a crucial 
issue on our campus-Student Government 
and its affairs.
Now that youve all had a good laugh, sit^- 
back and hear us out.
Its not something to laugh about when an 
organization has $75,000 to allocate each 
year.
And its not something to laugh about 
when an organization appoints all the student 
representatives to faculty, administrative and 
trustee committees.
And its not something to laugh about'^ 
when an organization funds almost all the 
student activities on campus and almost no 
one knows about it.
And its not something to laugh about 
when an organization has a legal corporation 
that is sitting stagnant.
So were going to try to keep you informed 
on whats happnin in Student Senate. Well
break you in slowlyhere goes.
As a primer, check out the 1971-1972 al
locations:
Activits Board $21,850.00
Cameron Choir 1,280.00
Cheerleaders 448.25
Gaming & Simulation Club 100.00
Literary/Technical 4,260.00
Programming Fund 7,000.00
Revolutionary Alliance Ol
Rifle & Pistol Club 271.00
Sailing Club 100.00
SPIRIT 830.00
Student Government 1,750.00
TARTAN * 8,210.00
WRCT 5,910.00
Total $52,009.25
Please note that this is only $52,009.25:^ 
More funds have been appropriated this 
semester but thers still a lot of petty cash 
around. People seem to forget that Student 
Senate is around (think of $75,000 in singles 
filling to overflowing a dorm room.)
So ends our introductory dissertation on 
our governing student body. As the people 
behind the power (define it as you will) please 
stay with us as we rake the muck. I
SEX & RACE DISCRIMINATION
? A ?
CORPORATED RESPONSIBILITY
AAA
PresidrnPrtal CSalstp k
AAA
PRISON REFORM
AAA
Want to help cause social change? 
Public Interest Research Group 
needs your help!
AAA i
For more information detach coupon 
and send to PIRG, Box 28, C-MU
Name....
Address
your
kincl
of 
action...
Looks, comfort and fit.. . those 
are the things guys (and gals) 
want most from their jeans. THE 
JEANS JOINT at Sears consid
ers all the important facts about 
wants and needs. We hdve the 
styles, the fabrics, the colors, the 
comfort, the fit AND the PRICE 
youll recognize. Come and see 
. . . bring the coupon below for 
a shot at two great prizes!
get them now at the lub7/ l,e7N
Phone

---------------------------------------------------

- Fast Fast 
#Fast Relief
Richard McGinnis
The Tartan, Thursday, December 9, 1971
Interested in fulfilling themselves or their 
academic requirements, CMU students again 
waded through the rain, stood in lines to get 
||into the gym, andhad long waits in lines to get 
their names placed on a single sheet of paper. 
The procedure ran more smoothly for some, 
and these lucky students completed preregis
tration within 15 minutes.
Those who waited in lengthy lines (psycho
logy and education, electrical engineering, 
and math, per usual) ran into bad luck due to a 
poor random selection of students chosen to 
Gpreregister during given time segments. This 
forced many to waste time standing in lines 
that stretched almost across the gym. Another 
problem was that some of the people working 
at the tables were not familiar with the precedure and were as confused as the students.
Registrar Rogers said that the success and 
ease of preregistration depended solely on the 
individual departments. He felt that it was a 
^departmental responsibility to have compe
tent and adequate staff at each table to elimin
ate the crowds and lines so familiar to registra
tion procedures. The history department, for 
example, had three lines, divided by course 
numbers. AMS majors signed class lists before 
the date of preregistration etc. The only lines 
at their table were for non-majors, which eli
minated lengthy waits.
I However, regardless of all the hectic activi
ty of scheduling and waiting in lines, this 
procedure did alieviate many of the headaches 
of the old days.
Student Welfare Rights
Hundreds of poor people in Allegheny 
County now trying to get a college education 
and a new life will lose this opportunity be
cause of a recent policy change made by the 
Department of Public Welfare in Harrisburg. 
Caseworkers have been instructed to cut col
lege students off of public assistance. The 
Welfare Department-is arguing that a student, 
because he is a student, is not available for 
employment 24 hours a day. Therefore they 
are saying that he is not eligible for assistance.
There are those who believe that college 
students should not receive welfare anyway. 
They believe that anyone who can afford to 
go to college cannot be eligible for welfare. 
The fact of the matter is that no one, college 
student or not, can receive welfare unless they 
are poor. All savings over $50 have to be spent 
before applying. The applicant must not have 
an income or their income has to be below the 
meager sum that the welfare department al
lows ($68 twice a month for a single person; 
or $2.50 a day for everything for a family of 
4). In Allegheny County contributions are 
demanded from the parents or the children of 
the person applying for assistance. Therefore 
if the parent of a college student has a fair 
income the application is denied. Contribu
tions can be expected from a parent making as 
little as $230 a month. Any person found 
employable must also seek work and register 
with the Bureau of Employment Security. If a 
job came along the recipient of welfare, even 
if he was a full time student, would have to 
take the job or be cut off of welfare. Many 
students who are on welfare have taken such 
jobs, either full or part time, so long as the job 
did not interfere with their class work.
But now the situation has been changed.
The department of welfare is now saying that 
a student, because he is a student, is not 
available for employment and therefore is in
eligible for assistance. Students are being 
called in and told they are no longer eligible 
for assistance, regardless of how poor they 
are, and regardless of the fact that most stu
dents receiving welfare have been willing to 
accept full or part time work if it did not 
interfere with their classwork!!
The Welfare Rights Organization-Allegheny County (an organization of welfare re
cipients helped by volunteer staff and legal 
counsel) feel that these changes are not only 
illegal but very short sighted. WROAC feels 
the changes are illegal because they contradict 
the federal regulations which govern welfare 
and contradict the intent of the whole public 
welfare system which is to help people get off 
welfare and become self-supporting. How can 
a student in college, whether he comes from a 
poor family or whether she is a mother of 
dependent children (AFDC) trying to break 
out of the poverty trap, ever hope to get off 
welfare if the welfare department denies him 
his or her chance for an education which will 
lead hopefully to a job that will lift him off 
welfare. The new regulation is a trap. Rather 
than encouraging the poor to help themselves 
and to rise to fulfill their potential through a 
chance at a good education the system is 
working to keep them poor and underedu
cated and refer them to dead end jobs which 
will never help them break out of poverty.
WROAC also feels that the new changes are 
extremely short sighted. The meager amount 
of assistance that the state now provides to a 
student, when he is in real need, is peanuts 
compared to that students lifetime tax con
tribution back to the state if he gets a good 
education and can command a job to save the 
state a few pennies of welfare, when an invest
ment in his education will pay back the state a 
thousand fold in the future in the form of 
creative work and tax dollars returned to the 
state.
Students who are affected by these new 
regulations and others who want to help 
change this absurd regulation should contact 
WROAC 471-0180 and leave name, address, 
phone and college name with receptionist. 
Bob or Steve will be in touch with you.
Welfare Rights Organization 
Allegheny County.
Technical 
M usings
There was not time to put theansersand 
name of the winner of this years first Tech
nical Musings in the second Technical (due 
to be distributed on Dec. 10); so they are 
being published here in the TARTAN. There 
were two answers to the first problem: -22 
through 0, 1 through 22, or 990 through 
1012, 1013 through 1034. Only one stu
dent, Dave Schonbach, gave the second an
swer, but his entry was not in time to win the 
prize. The answers to the second problem 
were: a) 2, b) 2, c) 9001. The first entry with 
all the answers correct was submitted by 
Richard Pelletier, who will receive the $5 
prize.
Due to a proof-reading error, the second 
problem was printed incorrectly. The form
ula should have been 900n~ plus 1 (nine 
hundred n squared plus one) and 2c should 
read the 1001st value of n such that f(n) 
divided by 9 leaves 1 as a remainder. Math 
nurds and puzzles freaks in the audience 
may want to do the problem again with 
these corrections even though the Technical 
is not offering any prize for the answer.
FOR FREE
Pregnancy 
Counseling
in 
PITTSBURGH
Call
422-7900
Women's Medical Assistance
a non-profit organization
Cu .. Cl/1 PI ||P for more info call:
.-M. U. DM liLUD ALEX-4219974
I CHARLIE - 683-8607
I NAME............................................................................................................................................................
SCHOOL MAILING ADDRESS:........................................................................................................
Send to SKI CLUB, Skibo 103 - DUES $2.00.
Beginners Welcome; Lessons and Equipment Rental Available; Skiing with Pitt 
|and Chatham in January and February. We'll be Skiing Wednesday Nights at 
Seven Springs.
GIVE A DAMN. USE A CONDOM.
Take the worry out of sei, and you'll enjoy it even more!
Decmbr 9,17 mV ro7elu /bN m2 E,a o7e99E rm17 e Neyb eM,al M,ln E,ao 
9m17Vuuu E,ad99 iebl l, go,l7Sl n7o erembVl eSSmN7ble9 go7rbebSEu kE 
aVmbr e yebV S,bloeS7glm17 lnelV M77b N7Vmrb7N b,l ,b9E imln protection mb ymbN Mal imln pleasure eV i799u s,o l,NeEV b7i S,bN,yV 
eo7 7ptamVml79E V7bVmlm17 inm97 Vlm99 go,1mNmbr ln7 Vey7 N7g7bNeM97 
go,l7Slm,b ln7 S,bN,y neV e9ieEV M77b b,l7N 2,oh
/bN b,i yebE ,2 ln7 M7Vl MoebNV ,2 S,bN,yV eo7 e1em9eM97 ME yem9 
2o,y w,ga9elm,b w9ebbmbr /VV,Smel7VuuuebN N79m17o7N l, E,a mb e 
g9emb geScer7 l, go,l7Sl E,ao gom1eSEu
x7bN 2,o ,ao 2o77 m99aVloel7N Mo,Snao7 N7VSomMmbr ln7 imN7 V797Slm,b 
,2 S,bN,yV i7 ,227ou xaSn eV ln7 g,ga9eo -o,.ebu -n7 7ploeClnmb 
womy7u -n7 go7CVneg7N f,blao7u -n7 Y,mbCweSc geScer7N mb nebNE 
r,9N 2,m9 5S,mbVuv /bN yebE y,o7u /99 797Slo,bmSe99E l7Vl7N l, y77l 
omr,o,aV s)/ Vg7Sm2mSelm,bVu
SPECIAL
CHRISTMAS
OFFER!
Dec7 fnomVlyeV y7oom7o lnmV E7eo 
uuu imln ,ao abmta7 fnomVlyeV 
Veyg97o S,blembmbr HI eVV,ol7N 
S,bN,yV mb e r,9N 2,m9 M,p 
lomyy7N imln e Momrnl o7N ebN 
r,9N lm7u f,blembV taeol7oCN,U7b 
geSc7lV ,2 ln7 ^ MoebNV y7blm,b7N 
eM,17uuu g9aV ,b7 fo7VlCxcmb 
yeN7 ,2 Vag7oCV7bVmlm17 ebmye9 
y7yMoeb7u s,o 7eSn Veyg97o 
g9aV ,ao Mo,Snao7 V7bN .aVl zA 
g9aV AqT g,Vler7 ebN nebN9mbru 
/99 ,oN7oV 2m997N ln7 Vey7 NeE o7K
S7m17N ebN Vnmgg7N 2moVl S9eVVu 
D,b7E MeSc m2 b,l N79mrnl7Nh
Population Planning Associates 105 North Columbia Chapel Hill, N.C. 27514
Gentlemen: Please send me:______Christmas Gift Samplers at $5each, plus 50C postage and handling.I enclose____________to cover cost.I understand that you will refund my money in full if I am not delighted.? Free illustrated brochure only.
I name(plaas* print)
I address
j citystate
J ilpR269

---------------------------------------------------

PalsoBlithe Spirit
6The Tartan, Thursday, December 9, 1971 ^
String Quartet 
Terence N. Palso
DESPERATE CHARACTERS 
directed by Frank D. Gilroy
The highpoint of the film DESPERATE 
CHARACTERS occurs somewhere between 
the time one finds a parking space near the 
theater and the moment when one pays for 
his tickets. From there on things go pretty 
much downhill until one returns to his auto
mobile and is elated to find the hubcaps, 
tires, battery, and windshield all still intact.
The trouble with this film is that it starts 
out very slowly and quickly loses momen
tum. In fact, if the film moved any slower 
the projector would, in all likelihood, begin 
going backwards. This is not to say that the 
film would have been better with a quicker 
pacing, but at least it would have been more 
bearable. The main fault inherent in this film 
is that it tries to be a very arty vehicle
designed to show how modern civilization, 
symbolized by the life of a married couple 
living in New York City, is collapsing. All the 
proof is there: the inability to communicate, 
mans unfeeling nature toward his fellow 
man, the need of man to turn predator to 
survive, the breakdown of social institu
tionseverything is therebut entertain
ment. After all, everyone who watches the 
six oclock news, reads anything but Hot 
Rod and Good Housekeeping, and goes 
out of his house from time to time already 
knows that things are falling apart and this 
motion picture will tell them nothing else.
Frank D. Gilroy should have realized this 
when he sat down and adapted the screen
play for this film from Paula Foxs novel, 
but instead he continued right on to direct 
and produce this picture. Gilroy might have 
had a higher motive in mind for this film, but 
unfortunately it failes to reach the audience. 
What does reach them is all too trite by this 
point, and although it is presented to look 
arty, it comes off as being just tiresome.
Shirley MacLaine, who lately has been 
referred to as Warren Beatys big sister, stars 
in this picture. Her portrayal of a woman 
unable to cope with the inhuman complexi
ties of modern existence is about as flat as 
last New Year Eves champagne. The audi
ence never shares her frustration and horror. 
They never come to identify with her in any
manner. In fact, the viewer is apt to find 
himself wondering why doesnt she get a 
divorce and move to someplace where life is 
less complicated and would be better suited 
to her temperment such as Maine or 
Nebraska?
While this film does nto reveal anything 
new about Miss MacLaines acting ability, it 
certainly reveals quite a bit about her ana
tomy. Anyone who has ever fanticized 
about seeing Miss MacLaine in the nude has 
only to see this film to discover if those 
fantasies were correct. Unfortunately, these 
scenes will do nothing for anyone who, like 
this writer, has never thought such fanticizings worth the time, especially when there 
was always Raquel Welch, Candice Bergan, 
and Ann-Margret around to keep his id more 
than fully occupied.
Miss MacLaine used to be a very good 
actress, but lately seems to have lost the 
touch she had in pictures usch as Two for 
the See Saw. It is a shame that she cant 
seem to find the proper vehicle for her tal
ents, but she should definitely keep looking 
and not bother to settle for such roles as this.
Kenneth Mars plays Miss MacLaines hus
band in this picture. Whatever he is supposed 
to be doing, he doesnt do it very well. His 
acting is so low key as to make Miss Mac
Laine look almost good. Mr. Mars may have 
been trying to show what the urban jungle 
does to men who have to struggle in it every 
day for survival, but instead his actions and 
facial expressions seem to be those of a man 
who has a sneaking suspicion that his wife is 
starching his jockey shorts.
DESPERATE CHARACTERS is a sad, 
depressing film. To say that with a little 
more devotion to entertainment and less 
obvious attention to being arty it could have 
become an important film would be a vast 
overstatement. However, with a little more 
stress on the entertainment side, this film 
could have become an almost bearable soap 
opera picture. As it stands now, the only 
really desperate characters in evidence when 
this film is shown are those people in the 
audience who have paid to see it.
Marc Elliott Field
The worst thing about trying to do a 
comedy and failing, is if it isnt funny, it isnt 
anything at all. A drama may retain its mean
ing or a musical a few good tunes. However, an 
unfunny comedy possesses no redeeming feat
ures whatsoever.
The Pittsburgh Playhouses current pro
duction of Blithe Spirit falls into this cate
gory. It certainly is not the fault of the script. 
The action revolves around a remarried wido
wer whose first wife returns from the grave. 
Of course everyone thinks he is crazy, especi
ally his second wife. As far as the script goes, 
Sir Noel is at his best. The cast has to work 
very hard to dampen his wit.
The main problem with the show lies with 
the fact that the director and the actors had 
no feeling for the style. They were slow and 
slovenly rather than quick and precise. The 
show didnt hold together as a unit. There 
were small parts that came off rather well but 
they were divorced from the whole.
The only bearable feature was the perform
ance of Mrs. Helen Wayne Rauh as Madame 
Acati. She seemed to be the only one who 
knew how the show ought to be done and the 
play picked up considerably with her every 
entrance.
Unfortunately it just wasnt enough.
Daniel Mooney played the haunted hus
band, Charles. He was quite good as Michael in 
the last show, Boys in the Band, so he 
decided to repeat the same performance. Dor
is Hackney was Ruth, the second wife. She 
might have been all right if only she could 
remember her lines. David Emge was good as 
Dr. Bradman yet he was working under the 
handicapp of his age. I would think that after 
going Equity, the Playhouse could at least hire 
an actor who was within ten years of the 
character to be played. All of the age make-up 
rather gives the effect of a high school play. 
Finally, there was Peggy Ann Hughes as Elvi
ra, the spectral first wife. She had a good 
understanding of the lightness that was neces
sary for the part yet it came off artificially.
To say the least, Blith Spirit is not a 
smash hit. Yet I have no doubts that the 
Playhouse will pick themselves up off the 
ground to try again. That is something they 
are very good at. Theyve had practice.
Walter Koehler
Wednesday night the Carnegie-Mellon 
String Quartet presented the second of three 
Alumni Concerts, and continued with the 
brilliant talent and interpretation that was 
shown in their first concert last month.  
Cesar Francks D Major String Quartet was 
the opening piece, and it showed the cyclical 
form that Franck is so famous for, as in his D 
minor symphony: the same musical ideas are 
used throughout all four movements instead 
of only within each individual movement. In 
the D major string quartet, a descending D 
major triad kept popping up from the 
opening measures of the first movement to ^ 
the closing bars of the last. The problem 
with the piece was that it was rather long for 
the listening audience, close to 45 minutes, 
and the quartet at times lacked a tight en
semble sound in the more complex rhythmic 
sections.
Next on the program was the String 
Quartet no. 7 (1960) by the great Russian ^ 
composer Dimitri Shostakovich. Mercifully ^ 
short, the three movements made a beautiful 
statement in the fixed-tonality medium that 
so often today sounds outdated. Somebody 
turned on the ballrooms heating fans during 
the performance of this piece and the noise 
distracted from the fragile music being 
played.
The final piece was Schumanns E-flat ^ 
piano quintet, with great artist Nelson g 
Whitaker, of the CMU music faculty, on 
piano, and it was a triumph for all con
cerned. The five performers made a truly 
brilliant interpretation of this work by one 
of the real poetic inspirations in music.
The Carnegie-Mellon String Quartets last 
performance of this season will be early next 
semester; Wednesday, January 12 at 8:30 in >
the Skibo Ballroom, with a program ineluding quartets by Dvorak and Hindemith 
and a quintet by Castelnuovo-Tedesco with 
guest artist Irvin Kauffman on guitar.
Campus Camera Headquarters
FOR ALL YOUR 
PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS
WE RENT AND 
REPAIR TYPEWRITERS
CAMERA EXCHANGE
--------------Student Discount on Most Items:
Phone: 683-21813711 FORBES AVENUE
CANOE KAYAK and SAILING CRAFT
 Tired of the Usual Gifts . . . See Our Christmas Special  
10% OR MORE OFF ON EVERY EOAT. Other bargains include:
 WET SUITS  25% Off BELL TOPEX HELMETS  Only $15.95
 CEMENT PADDLES  15% Off  TRAILCRAFT CANOE KITS  Special $130.00
 FOTHERCHOCK LIFE VESTS - 15% OFF  HPP FIBERGLASS C-l, K-l KITS -Special $89.00
701 Wood Street, Wilkinsburg, Pa.  Phone: 371-4802 
Store Hours: Weekdays 11-5; Thursday and Friday Evenings, 7-9; 
Saturday 10-5 only in December

---------------------------------------------------

Pakistani Refugee 
Benefit Concert
Jose Cuevero
A special benefit concert for the refugees 
of the Pakistani civil war will be held this 
Saturday evening, in the CMU Skibo Ball
room. The concert will feature the music of 
Manassas and Blugrass. As an extra added 
attraction, the Pittsburgh Bhangra Group will 
also perform.
The newly founded Ananda Marga Yoga 
Society on campus, along with the not-sonewly-founded CMU Activities Board, will be 
sponsoring the show. All proceeds will be 
forwarded to the Ananda Marga Universal 
Relief Team (AMURT) in India.
Though Ananda Marga is relatively new in 
these United States, it is a major relief organi
zation in India, such as the American Red 
Cross is in this country. Shouldering a signifi
cant amount of the burden in caring for the 
welfare of the Pakistani-Bangla Desh civil war 
refugees, AMURT is currently feeding and 
housing nearly 500,000 people daily in the 
Bengal and Bihar provinces; and will soon 
adopt 20,000 orphaned children.
Each purhcased ticket for the benefit con
cert will supply AMURT with enough money 
to meet the cost of feeding twelve people for 
one day.
Manassas and Blugrass are two groups of 
musicians who have been creating original 
music for quite some time now, though nei
ther has achieved the major recognition they 
each deserve. While both groups are not un
familiar to CMU students, hangers-on, 
groupies, gate-crashers, etc., this concert will 
present them in a different lightIt marks the 
first time (locally) that both will be presenting 
sets consisting entirely of original composi
tions. Both groups have also agreed to per
form in this concert, donating all funds raised 
to the refugees of Bangla Desh through 
AMURT.
At this time it is still uncertain whether or 
not WQED-TV will film the concert for a 
future televised program, though negotiations 
with the station are in progress.
Since only one performance will be given, 
beginning 8:30 Saturday evening, it is ad
visable to purchase tickets (now on sale at I 
$1.50 a head at the Skibo Information Desk) 
as soon as possible, considering that the ball
room will only hold a limited number of 
people.
cinderthistle 
hand knitting yams
812 ivy street 
shadyside
i
SCC..YS 1 I
]) FORBES AVENUE 
791* PENN AVENUE jj 
and ROUTE (.
NORTH OF ETNA
OPEN TO 
SERVE YOU 24 HOURS A DAY
Between Classes 
or at Study Break
The Tartan, Thursday, December 9, 1971
TO SKIBO
Your cherry pie and rolls are good but we cant live on pastry 
All we want are meals that one might think resemble tasty.
Your lunches (can you call them that?) are simply too atrocious 
The hassles we get when we want more are giving us psychoses. 
The food is poor, the prices high, why cant you see this fact? 
And then you sit and wonder why were going off Contract!
The US Civil Service Commission announc
ed three test dates for 1972 summer jobs in 
federal agencies.
Candidates whose applications are re
ceived by December 3, will be tested on 
January 8, 1972; those whose applications 
are received by Jan. 7 will be tested Feb. 12; 
and those whose applications are received by 
Feb. 2 will be tested March 11. Applications 
postmarked after Feb. 2 will not be ac
cepted.
Complete instructions for filing, and in
formation on opportunities available, are 
contained in CSA Announcement No. 414, 
Summer Jobs in Federal Agencies, which 
may be obtained from any area office of the 
commission, any major post offices, most 
college placement offices, from the US Civil 
Service Commission, Washington, DC 
20415. Or from: Maurice G. Esworthy, 
Room 168, Federal Building, 3rd and Wal
nut Streets, Harrisburg.
Applicants rated eligible in 1971 need 
not take the written test again unless they 
wish to improve their scores. They will be 
sent a special form by December 1 to update 
their qualifications and indicate their availa
bility for employment in 1972.
The Commission urged candidates to ap
ply early for max-phasized that the number 
of jobs available through the nationwide test 
will be extremely small in porportionto the 
number of competitors. Last year, 157,485 
persons were tested and only 12,600 were 
appointed through the nationwide CSC 
imum consideration, and em-exam.
In addition to providing details about the 
types of jobs that will be filled through the 
nationwide test, Announcemnt 414 con
tains information on other summer jobs that 
will be filled through merit procedures ad
ministered by individual Federal Agencies. 
Last year, more than 22,000 jobs were filled
 through such procedures.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan, Thursday, December 9, 1971
***At**
PEACE ON EARTH,
^gdPP
'' p  -3 -5, ' '> 'S '4' ^ 48^W' ;' / ,'T w % ' ' ' p pi C:::y ;H *3 . '''.'   i? "i-"  :;'-
:  l: :
We ran them in a lot of college - newspapers last year. Their purpose was to answer aome of the critical questions students were asking about our company.Maybe you saw them. A lot of students did. And a lot wrote to us about them. In many cases the ads triggered additional questions, questions so provocative that weve decided to expand our communications with college students.Were doing it in several ways. Weve already started to have conferences of student opinion leaders and GE people at our various
plantlocations. These conferences permit deep probing of sticky questions. They help us to understand the concerns of students. But they involve relatively few students and || GE people.So were going to share some of the questions and answers (like the ones above) with you by continuing our ads in college newspapers.And we'll make sure our people see your questions, too-through company magazines and plant newspapers.We think your concerns are important. And we think you should know how seriously we take them.
42-2790 202CT7IC
GOOD WILL TOWARDS MEN
t

---------------------------------------------------

CMU Join PAC
Jude
On Saturday, December 4, the CMU 
Athletic Policy Board in conjunction with 
President Stever decided to join the Presi
dents Athletic Conference. (PAC) This de
cision was a result of several position papers 
on varsity athletics submitted by assorted 
groups to President Stever, these included; 
Student Senate, Athletic Board, Faculty 
Senate, and the Athletic Department.
The overall attitude was that athletics 
play a vital role in university life and that 
varisty athletics in particular provide a mult
itude of significant opportunities that no 
other activityorganized or notcan equal. 
Both participants and non-participants alike 
can freely share in the benefits of an athletic 
program dedicated to balanced excellence, 
in which acadmies are not compromised. 
What these reports were concerned with was 
evaluating the role varsity sports play on our 
campus. The attitude of the administration 
now that weve joined the PAC is that varsity 
athletics do have a place on campus as long 
as the conference has ideals parallel to ours. 
Whereas sports arent deleted, this isnt the 
big time either.
The presidents Athletic Conference was 
conceived in 1955, by Western Reserve, 
John Carroll, Case Institute, and Wayne 
State. Through the years teams have been 
added and dropped and as it now stands, the 
league consists of 8 teams. This conference 
was a result of a realization that college 
athletics, despite its virtues, was gradually 
becoming a financial and academic burden 
to the institution involved. If athletics were 
to be continuedand there was considerable 
thought given to dropping the programs 
action had to-be taken to place them on their 
proper level. Included in this is the premise 
that as many individuals as possible be en
couraged to participate in athletics. For this 
reason, the PAC maintains a program of
eleven intercollegiate sports, and at the same 
time, encourages strong intramural pro
grams at each member school. This state
ment at the formation of the PAC complies 
pretty much with the attitude of the admi
nistration about sports on our campus.
Wednesday, Dec. 8, Raymond Haynes is 
scheduled to meet with the directors of the 
PAC at Hiram College as to whether or not 
we can be eligible, with schedule changes, to 
qualify for the conference championships in 
the near future. Mr. Haynes believes that we 
wont be involved in full league competition 
until 1973-74.
CMU has been reluctant to join most 
conferences, and with good reason. Most 
conferences place a standard of academics 
on the players, and also have restrictions on 
freshmen players. We had joined the West 
Penn Conference in the early 60s, but we 
later dropped this conference because West 
Penn hassled us about giving athletic scholar
ships under the table. They were always 
comparing statistics on athletic scholarships 
and apparently didnt trust ours. Eventually, 
over the past few years, the PAC rules have 
been interpreted in order to fit our needs 
and in order not to put any pressure on our 
athletic policy. The only concession weve 
made is the elimination of spring football 
practice, which I have been assured would 
have been deleted in the long run.
Before we joined the PAC, the players on 
varsity teams had no chance to receive any 
semblance of recognition of any stature 
when they performed well during a season. 
The PAC would recognize that performance 
and bring recognition to CMU.
The remaining question in my mind is 
Any chance we would join the NCAA? 
The report from Dean Swank is that the 
Athletic Policy Board has asked Mr. Haynes 
to get the current statistics and requirements 
concerning the NCAA. Check the 
page for further developments.
FLYING
!Wm___ at
11 to 2 a.m. every day GINO and PETES
Take Out Orders 411 South Craig St.  Oakland 
682-8691 Hoagies N2E ayMMEnd igS aknyEnd 
Pizzas Made to Order 1yi 1isp yg ,btDb7h e
COLLEGE 
STUDENTS
Part-time and Christmas 
Employment Available.
Must be free two weekdays minimum 
from 4 p.m. until 10 p.m. and all day 
Saturday.
PLEASANT PUBLIC CONTACT WORK
wp ygdExyE- .iss
MR. R. COSTEN
TUESDAYS and THURSDAYS 5-7:30 p.m. 
SATURDAY 9 a.m. - 2 p.m.
281-4321
Wrestlers Crash 
Victory Column
The CMU wrestling team won 1 out of 3 
dual meets Saturday, in Greenville, Pa. The 
win was the first in the two-year history of 
the Wrestling team. Westminster was the vic
tim by the score of 25-18. CMU was de
feated by Thiel (54-0) and Allegheny (42-9).
The first match of the day, against Thiel, 
found the team plagued by non-agressiveness, scoring one takedown to Thiels eleven, 
and giving a lack-luster performance. George 
Wargo (118), Ken Sauter (126), Tom Diller 
(142), Vic Rodgers(158), Joe Curilla (163), 
and Jim Brogan (190), lost by pins, while 
Allen Kohan and Steve Etkin (150), lost by 
decisions, 5-1 and 8-2 respectively. The 177 
and HWT classes were forfeited.
The second match, against Allegheny, 
was also unimpressive. Wargo won by forfeit 
and Etkin scored a takedown in the first 
period, as he hung on a 3-0 decision. Losing 
decision were Kohan (8-5) and Diller (8-2). 
Overweight classes were lost by pin for for
feited.
A different attitude was apparent as the 
team, coached by Coach Steva, became 
more aggressive in the match against West
minster. Kohan won by decision (12-0), 
Rodgers by a first period pin, and Curilla by 
a 2-1 decision. Rodgers fall was a must in 
order to secure the teams victory, and 
Curilla, wrestling 25 lbs. over his normal 
weight, performed exceptionally well in his 
decision over his opponent at 167 lb. weight 
class. Wargo and Diller lost decisions by the 
score of 9-6 and 4-2 respectively, while 
Sauter lost by a fall. Etkin and Brogan 
gained forgeits while HWT was forfeited to 
Westminster.
The team will be starting next semester 
with the confidence that it can win. If Coach 
Steva convinces the team to maintain an 
aggressive attitude out on the mat, this, with 
student support, the wrestling team should 
bring home more victories second semester.
The Tartan, Thursday, December 9, 1971 
FINAL STANDINGS
6 Man Volleyball:
1.SAE 
2 Beta
3. SN
4. Giant Eagles
Soccer:
1. Mudge
2. M. Bastards
3. Sae
4. Powder Kegs
ALL SCHOOL SOCCER
FIRST TEAM 
Forwards:Max LebbinM. Bastards
KaderMudge
SoniMudge
Fullbacks:Brillo HeadMudge
tieMikuPowder Kegs
FordSAE
Goalie:PowersPowder Kegs
MVP:KaderMudge
SECOND TEAM
Forwards:McMahonBETA
McCurleySAE
M. HartSAE
Fullbacks:LewisM. Bastards
Goalie:FishBETA
MVP: (tie)FordSAE
LebbinM. Bastards
SoniMudge
The Largest Selection of 
Imported and Domestic 
Tobaccos and Pipes 
in the City
BRIAR BOWL
3725 FORBES ST. Ml-045
Nationally Advertised Pipes
Junior Year 
in New York
Washington Square College of Arts and Science 
of God DyET eLAoEtLb} sponsors a 
freLyE DovE Le God DyETF
The College, located in the heart of the city, is an 
integral part of the exciting metropolitan community 
of New York Citythe business, cultural, artistic, 
and financial center of the nation. The citys extraordi
nary resources greatly enrich both the academic 
program and the experience of living* at New York 
University with the most cosmopolitan student body 
in the world.
This program is open to students recommended by the 
deans of the colleges to which they will return for 
their degrees.
There are strong and varied offerings in many areas, 
such as fine arts, urban studies, languages including 
non-European, mathematics in the College and at the 
Courant Institute, psychology, and others.
A qualified studenf may register for courses in all other 
schools of the University, including the specializations in 
Commerce and Education.
The University sponsors programs in Spain and France.
mELbo pyE aEylhrEo by .LEolbyEn
freLyE DovE Le God DyET
New York University
New York, N.Y. 10003

---------------------------------------------------

IF YOU THINK EUROPE WAS CHEAP THIS SUMMER, YOU SHOULD SEE IT THIS WINTER
1Fo rFyo unex tFhlidr rFy adu cn lu bFuiFu LFo f$225 .FRn f$2m5 9dolP 
f$s75 0o Oonnan fGG35 8
'tnPn don TyPx PFRn FL 'jWAP hF oFyui xolw LdonP LFo rFyxtP cnxnnu xtn 
dpnP FL g$ dui $25
jtF kuFP tF Ryat hFupno xtnrAhh cn lu nLLnax, PF LFo RFon inxdlhP adhh 
'jW5
Wui xF tnhw rFy Pdvn RFunr tnu rFyAon Fu vdadxlFu, Pnui LFo 'jWAP un 
Oonxddr* Klx5
IxAP Lonn dui lx lhh xnhh rFy tnon rFy adu pnx555
BED, BREAKFAST AND SIGHTSEEING 
FOR ONLY $4.30 A DAY.
0uhr 'jW FLLnoP rFy xtn SxyxnhwdPP* Ix lP d cFFk FL vFyatnoP rFy adu cyr 
LFo g7,g2, $7, $2, nxa5, idrP LFo TyPx f45G7 d idr5
Edat vFyatno nuxlxhnP rFy xF d cni, condkLdPx dui PlptxPnnlup lu 27 EyoF
wndu alxlnP5 NF divduan onPnovdxlFuP unanPPdor5
'tn klx dhPF xnhhP rFy tnon xF555
RENTACAR FOR JUST $3.65 A DAY.
Iu Fvno g2 EyoFwndu alxlnP, rFy adu iolvn d ado dhh doFyui xtn alxr LFo TyPx 
fG562 d idr, whyP pdP dui 4V2<t wno klhFRnxno5
Wui tF xF Pdvn RFunr lxt555
SPECIAL SKI TOURS.
'jW tdP PFRn FL xtn hFnPx wolani Pkl xFyoP xFVdlh, WPwnu, dui SxndRcFdx5
0o lL rFy dux xF Pkl xtn WhwP, xdkn d 'jW xFyo5 Ix PdvnP rFy Fvno 27% FL 
xtn aFPx FL xodvnhhlup dhFun5
'tn klx dhPF xnhhP rFy tF xF pnx d555
GETAWAYCARD.
YFyAhh onanlvn du dwwhladxlFu chduk5 'tnonAP uF RlulRyR luaFRn onqylon
Rnux5 Wui uF rndohr Rdluxnuduan Lnn5
UPn rFyo Onxddr Cdoi xF atdopn dloLdon, SxyxnhwdPPnP, xFyoP, dhRFPx 
nvnorxtlup5 Wui xtnu xdkn yw xF xF rndoP xF wdr5
NF tdxAP nvnu ndPlno xtdu pnxxlup ddr LFo xtn tFhlidrP, lP pnxxlup d 
Onxddr Klx5
JyPx yPn xtn aFywFu5
TWA, P.O. Box 402, Farmingdale, N.Y. 11735
Send all the information you have on bargain 
vacations in Europe and the U.S.A. to:
N ame______________________________________
Address.
CityStateZip Code
Service marks owned exclusively bv TWA.
WloLdonP qyFxni don LoFR CtladpF5
i = mss*
