I Mt I IM TAN-I uesday, November 21, 1972-Page 7
Service Held for Students Killed; 
C-MU Blacks Talk of Activism
by Steve Jurman
The shootings at Southern University 
couldnt happen unless opinion in America 
permitted it. The people who support ra
cist leaders at best simply dont care what 
happens to Blacks and at worst actively* 
favor genocide.
That opinion was expressed by Harry 
Gatewood during a memorial service held 
Friday in Skibo lobby for the black stu
dents killed at Southern University in 
Louisiana. Harry continued that although 
many black students considered CMU not 
to be the real world, incidents such as that 
at Baton Rouge prove that it is. Black 
people have an obligation to each other 
and must be committed to fight, but not, 
necessarily with arms, which could easily 
be suicidal.
Several more speakers all echoed the 
sentiment that it could happen anytime to
Elections 
fGet 10% 
Turnout
by Gary Bronheim
Apathy and manpower problems as well 
as general disorder ruled supreme as 
Student Government elections went
- unnoticed by most and with various hassles 
for those who attempted to vote. As it 
turned out only about ten percent of the 
student body did vote.
On Tuesday at the Student Senate 
meeting a motion was passed after some 
debate which declared the election invalid. 
However from here the motion had to be 
passed by the Election Appeals Board
- which is composed of the leaders of the 
various organizations on campus such as 
WDC, MDC, Pan-Hell, CFP, etc.
The issue was brought up at the Wed
nesday meeting and the causes of the 
problem were discussed. As it turned out, 
after considering the lack of publicity for 
the election, the next problem was that of 
inconsistent voting practices at the various 
voting places. Some places used either the 
newly issued library cards or the student 
ids as requirements for voting. At other 
places only the library card was used, 
which is what the rules required. But many 
students have as yet not picked up their 
library cards. Due to a lack of personnel to 
continued on paae 4
Blacks anywhere in America, and called for 
committment to some action, especially 
since CMU black students had a reputation 
for apathy.
Faculty member Donna McCall ques
tioned the value of building takeovers and 
the lives they cost. She wondered if such 
tactics didnt play into the hands of the 
Man, and stated that the important things 
to take over were the skills needed to sur
vive today, such as law and economics.
That appeared to be the most common
ly agreed upon point; the students are at 
CMU to acquire those skills that would 
permit them, as Blacks, to control black 
Americas destiny, and that not to do so is 
wrong. But many speakers objected that 
that could be used as an excuse, and that 
things could be done now in addition to 
school. We must use the tools we have 
gained, and get the tools we can get stated 
one speaker.
Diallo (formerly Gary Scott), one of the 
organizers of the service, thanked those 
black workers who had helped, and ob
served that too often We have our heads 
in the air and fail to recognize the debt 
owed to the workers and others. Dean of 
Men Charles Williams was present and in
vited the leaders of Spirit, a black students 
continued on page 3
lj| LWKj t& *  f* I % : * *&&&&&1 JL- ~ I 1 I
|F Iffi
Photo by Greg Nickel
TGIF was cancelled last week so that a memorial service for the students shot at Southern
University could be held.
November 21, 1972 Volume 73 Number 11"No Seconds To Be Tested," Allison Tells MDC Meeting
by Debbie Siegal
More conflict has resulted from the 
announcement of the new policy to end 
the serving of seconds at the Kilte Cafe,
than was anticipated by Food Service. 
Mens Dorm Council met on Wednesday 
night, November 15, and spent time on a 
55 minute discussion which presented 
various questions and objections by rePhoto by Nick Lardas
At last Wednesday's fiery MDC meeting, nine dorms submitted petitions against any "NO 
Seconds policy.Drama May Drop Dance Option; Program Said To Be Nebulous
D
by Shelley Burhans
Dispensing with the theatre dance op
tion of the Drama Department is a reason
able alternative if the faculty does not be
gin (to attempt) some kind of direction 
curriculum-wise, stated an upperclassman 
theatre dance major. There is a great lack 
of communication and coordination within 
the theatre dance faculty, and because of 
this, we (dance majors) are not being com
municated with adequately. Most of the 
students who were here when the program 
. started are gone, for this reason. This re
sponse was echoed by many of the other 
dance majors when questioned as to their 
feelings concerning the rumor that Theatre 
Dance will no longer be offered at CMU.
Said another student, Theatre dancers 
would like to know what the program is 
about. Weve been told that its experi
mental and exploratory, but weve never 
been told what a theatre dancer is sup
posed to be.
The Theatre Dance option of the Drama 
Department was initiated in 1970 by Mel
lon Professor Paul Draper, who states, 
What is always hard about a new program 
is the difficulty in telling what the end will 
be. It is not like engineering or architec
ture, where your program is established 
and you know what the product is. Some 
people do not understand, perhaps, that 
this program is not designed to make 
dancers. If you want to be a dancer, I dont 
believe you ought to go to college; you 
should go to a dance school and spend 7 or
8 hours a day on dance alone. This pro
gram was originally designed to combine 
the physical and verbal skills of dance and 
acting; it is a new idea. I think a good 
example of what the result or end should 
be is given in the recent performance of 
Under the Gaslight where these dancers 
did a fine job of combining dance, acting, 
vocal and movement skills.
I dont know anything about the pro
continued on page 3
Photo by Greg Nickel 
Prof. Paul Draper initiated the Dance Option 
in 1970.
presentatives towards Dave Allison, head of 
food service. A sampling of nine dorms had 
already submitted petitions against the 
policy of not serving seconds. It was 
clarified that no matter what M.D.C. may 
propose, the final decision would rest on 
Mr. Allison.
Some of the questions raised and 
answers given during the meeting were as 
follows:Question: Many students are in a rush to 
get out especially during lunch time. What 
will happen if the lines increase any more 
at Morewood as they are already quite 
crowded?
Allison: We have taken the overcrowding 
of Morewood into account. I believe there 
might be a rush at the beginning, but that 
is only till students see what the Kilte Cafe 
will offer them. We are planning to also 
hire more line staff in Morewood and it 
may be possible to place some additional 
tables. The hours at Morewood will also be 
extended to the same times as the Kilte 
Cafe.Question: Why have some portions 
already been increased and others not?Allison: We are trying to investigate 
menus and see what we can increase. We 
hope the increase in portions will be an 
advantage for non-contract persons also, 
even if they have to pay more because our 
food quality will improve.Question: Many students are wary of 
whether there really will be improvements 
in the food. What are you basing your 
decision on and how can students be sure 
the food will be better?Allison: Already, we have a little money 
to begin with to start making improve
ments. We are hoping to do well in Skibo 
and use that money for better food. My 
credibility is on the line.Question: How much would contracts 
be likely to increase if the quality of food 
was increased and unlimited seconds 
remained?
Allison: I dont have any real basis for 
an answer, but Id estimate at least $20 
increase on each contract.
continued on page 4

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2THE TARTAN-Tuesday, November 21, 1972
editors note
Its all the same. Weve heard it before.
The police didnt shoot. It was student snipers. It was shrapnel from 
a student bomb. Well, maybe an officer loaded a shotgun shell instead of 
tear gas.
Yeah, somehow a kid running with his back to the police tried to 
grab a cops gun. And got shot in the back.
There were snipers in the Womens Dorm at Jackson, and at Kent. 
They just didnt hit anyone and disappeared with all their spent cartridges 
and bullets.
The fact is the students were murdered.
Any thinking person knows it. The vocal forces of law and order are 
in authority, and for all their rhetoric they condone and even sanction 
murder, impHcity if not explicity.
There can be no law and order until those charged with enforcing the 
law obey it. That will not happen until those in authority attack official 
crime with the vehemence they reserve for the poor, those without a 
voice.* * * * *
An unmistakable aspect of the Baton Rouge shooting is that the 
victims were black. Kent State proved that whites may be officially 
murdered, but obviously its easier when the targets are black. No one 
really minds if Blacks die, and to the officers of the law involved, gettin  
Niggers is fine sport.
Thats an ugly fact to be lived with, dealt with, and sometimes died 
with. But there is another side which in a sense is even uglier.
Black students died at Orangeburg, but no one ever heard of Orange
burg until Kent, when white academic America exploded. A scant week 
later more barbarous events at Jackson State were met with by more 
whimper than bang.
White deaths cause national furor and make the cover of TIME. Will 
the Luce opinion machine so honor Southern University?
White student bodies and media executives certainly arent racist in 
any overt or even conscious sense. But their reactions to these almost 
identical events expose a subtle and disquieting racism. Some way must be 
found to deal with this.
One would need to be deaf and illiterate not to be aware of the Great 
Abortion Debate in the Pennsylvania Legislature. Led by representative 
Martin Mullen of Philadelphia, self proclaimed spokesman for Catholic 
America, the state House members are striving to outdo one another in 
efforts to preserve morality.
The Mullen bill would have even outlawed the prophylactic D and C 
currently administered to rape victims. There was an attempt to amend a 
provision on abortion to save a mothers life by requiring the husbands 
consent.
With the lack of any convincing criteria on the human status of 
embryos, decisions over abortion must be the right of a woman and those 
she chooses to consult.
More than that, two things about the current legislative absurdities 
are reprehensible.
First is the utter disregard for, and dehumanization of women shown 
by these bills. Women become mere receptacles, even in the case of rape, 
and are nine months later held responsible for the fruits of a contemptible 
deed. A womans very life could be not her decision, but her husbands!
Second, a matter of conern, intense, vital, personal concern, to no 
one but women is being decided only by men. Simple regard for human 
respect dictates that such decisions He with women.
Letters addressing this matter should definitely be sent to State 
Representatives and Senators. Nothing less than human dignity is 
involved.
Perhaps castration for population control should be made a female 
prerogative.
Steve Jurman
MAftSULIGSLetters:
Editor:
The parking situation at CMU stinks. 
This has nothing new. In the four years I 
have been a student here the parking situ
ation has always stinked (stanked? stunk?). 
Yet this year there is a difference: The 
student is a customer. What this basically 
means is that all students who drive to 
school now have to pay through the ass for 
parking that stinks.
Last year the parking was just as bad 
but at least it was bad and cheap. Now it is 
just as bad and expensive. Thus far those 
magical cards which control the gates have 
not arrived. Therefore we are paying for a 
guaranteed parking place which is usual
ly filled. I have noticed that a student 
security guard has been posted at the fine 
arts lot to control the flow of parkers 
there. I suppose those of who are paying 
$120.00 dollars and are faculty members 
get taken care of. Those of us who are 
paying $60.00 dollars and are students are 
getting screwed as usual.
I believe the student senate should take 
immediate action to see that all students 
,get full refunds of the first semester park
ing fees. If we are now customers we 
should pay the school equivalent to what 
we are getting-NOTHING.Marc Elliott Field senior commuter
Editor:
I am a prisoner confined at the Ohio 
Penn. I do not have any contact with the 
outside world. I do not receive mail very 
little to speak of.
I would like to know if you could an
nounce this for me.
I am a young, 26 year old, white male. 
Im from Michigan, Im lonely and would 
like to hear from some females or people 
who would like to write to a prisoner, 
doing 1-20 years.
If you are free, and can truly see,
If your mind is right, and you wish to write 
Then here I am, and Im waiting to hear 
from you;
Please tell it all, and Ill answer every call. 
Please write, and do it tonite.
Write to: Charles Williams 134-965; P.O. 
Box 69; London, Ohio 43140.Charles Williams
Editor in chief.......................Steve Jurman
Business Manager................Alice Bright
Special Editor........................Mina Gerall
News Editor.............................Jeff Ganek
News Staff .........................Steve Correl
Anne Friedman, Laurel Felix 
Mike Hill, Greg McKenna 
Debbie Siegel, Gary Singer 
John Spalding, Brandon Dula 
Shelley Burhans, Greg Fulton 
Stacey Kimbell,Gary Bronheim 
Chris Brown, Cathy Cook
Features Editor ....................Dave Guida
Features Staff........................Chris Infante
Ellen Steiber, Joan McCluskey 
David Stewart 
Marc Field, Craig Collins
Political Editor........................Jim Slivka
Photography Editors .... Ed Levine
Elliot Arons
Photography Staff .... John Shettel 
Greg Nickel, Henry Collins 
Ric Werme, Nick Lardas 
Bruce Edelston, Carl Grefenstette 
Frank Stein, Andrea Friedman 
Dan Goldstein
Entertainment Editor . . Steve Saunders
Entertainment Staff . . Nonie Dempsey
Terry Caywood, Susan Klein 
Steve Perkins, Fred Gormley 
Paula Shubock, Arnie Karr 
Stephen Hamm
Sports Editor ........................Jim Brogan
Sports Staff.................................Dan Buis
D.R. Sullivan, Jeff Englurid 
Roger Geddes
Advertising Manager . . . Laura Powers
Layout.................................Becky Carrol
Karla Salvi
Copy Staff ..............................Mina Gerall
Sandy Preuhs
Published every Tuesday during the aca
demic year at Cernegie-Mellon University, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 15213. Editorial 
^nd Business offices in Skibo 50, CarnegieMellon University. Telephone (412) 
682-4557.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, November 21, 1972-Page 3
Peace Corps Recruit CMUers
by Debbie Siegel
On November 13th and 14th, 
recruiters from the Philadelphia Regional 
Office of the Peace Corps and Vista set up 
booths to inform students about the op
portunities which these organizations pro
vide. There was a relatively broad response 
from students at CMU as approximately 
forty applications were distributed. Nine
teen interviews were scheduled in the 
Placement Office. Out of twenty-six appli
cations, there were five students from
? it?***'
Photo by John Shettel 
Clem McClintock, Gen. Manager of the Regional
office for Action, poses alternatives for students.
graduate school and fifteen who will be 
receiving their bachelor degrees at the end 
of the year. Ken Barnes, a recruiter who 
served in the Peace Corps in Jamaica com
mented on the response of students from 
CMU, This has been a good school in 
terms of skilled people showing interest as 
it it unusual to find a place that trains in so 
many technical fields. It is usually the op
posite way as more professionally unskilled 
people are interested. To me, this shows a 
good deal of social awareness is present 
here.
The Peace Corps and Vista now require 
their recruiters to have previously served. 
At present, there is no separate recruiting 
office for Pittsburgh. It is covered by the 
Philadelphia Regional Office. Recently, a 
part time recruiter of nurses and paramedi
cal help, Marcia Zellum, has been hired to 
recruit such people in Pittsburgh. She 
served in the Peace Corps in Kenya and will 
be a representative to the Philadelphia of
fice. Most recruiters are seeking those peo
ple who are not aware of the need for their 
skills. Recently the greatest demand has 
been for people in the fields of architec
ture, electrical engineering, city planning, 
business administration, agriculture, and 
skilled tradesmen such as carpenters and 
electircians.
When a person joins Vista or the Peace 
Corps, they are committing themselves to a 
full time job. There are no part time pro
grams sponsored by ACTION, which is the 
government agency that established Vista 
and the Peace Corps.
This year the ACTION program is ten 
years old and Mr. Barnes has noted that 
such an anniversary has given the organiza
tion a greater sense of respectability. The 
Peace Corps has changed its tone and is 
now stressing skills which are more relevant 
and useful to the countries involved. When 
asked about the new political role of Ser
geant Shriver during the election and its 
effect on the organization of the Peace 
Corps, he replied, Shrivers involvement in 
politics brought the name of the Peace 
Corps back into the public lght, but it had 
no influence on the level of national impor
tance. There have been no trends set of
males joining the Peace Corps or Vista as a 
delay from the draft. Since 1970, no defer
ments have been given. For Conscientious' 
Objectors the Peace Corps and Vista may 
be used as an alternative service.
Clem McClintock, the General Manager 
of the Philadelphia Regional Office com
mented on the differences between those 
who join Vista and those who join the 
Peace Corps. In both programs people 
need culture training. People in Vista are 
usually more socially motivated and should 
preferably have a background of social ac
tivism. Peace Corps people are usually skih 
led in a particular field and will be placed 
in a country according to the request for 
such a skill. Their work will be more re
stricted to that defined ara. The biggest 
difference is that Vista vofamteers choose 
to live in the slums and be poor, while this 
is not usually the case jn the Peace Corp^.
Clem McClintock, the Genreal Manager 
of the Philadelphia Regional Office com
mented on the differences between those 
who join Vista and those who join the 
Peace Corps. In both programs people 
need culture training. People in Vista are 
usually more socially motivated and should 
preferably have a background of social ac
tivism. Peace Corps people are usually skil'led in a particular field and will be placed 
in a country according to the request for 
such a skill. Their work will be more re
stricted th that defined area. The biggest 
difference is that Vista volunteers choose 
to live in the slums and be poor, while this 
is not usually the case in the PEace Corps.
When a person applies to the Beace 
Corps or Vista, they must first be accepted 
into the training program. A new innova
tion has been to train people in the area 
they will be assigned to. There is an evalu
ation period to review language proficiency 
and adjustments to psychological and emo
tional factors. Occasionally a person may 
deselect himself after the training period. 
Withdrawing from the training program can 
often be attributed to a persons immaturi
ty or lack of flexibility. Mr. McClintock 
pointed out, It is rather interesting that 
most applicants to the Peace Corps and
Vista are never seen and are judged only 
upon their applications and referencesr We 
find relatively few people who withdraw 
from the training program.
ACTION cannot arrange with a school 
a guarantee of college credit. The studeni 
must work this out independently with the 
individual school they attend. Eighteen is 
the minimum age for application to either 
of these programs and an applicant this 
young must have a background showing 
H
1 always had a sense of adventure, 
it. was a hard adjustment to the new cul
ture and living on the level of the people 
really changed many of my attitudes. When 
I lived in the jungle, there was no running 
water and we had to get it out of the river. 
Before we could drink it, we had to boil it. 
In the summer of 1972, I went back for a 
visit with all the different friends Id made 
there. One of the hardest parts of belongPhoto by John Shettel 
Ken Barnes, recruiter for the Peace Corps who served in Jamaica, answers questions of 
reporter Debbie Siegel
some social activism. There is a special 
book showing what jobs are needed and in 
which locations.
Mrs. Winifred Banum, an evening su
pervisor of the Book Store at CMU served 
in the Peace Corps in Ecuador from 1968 
to 1971. She elaborated on some aspects of 
her experience. For my first two years in 
the Peace Corps, I was a worker in Volun
teer Support of the Peace Corps Office in 
Quito, the capital of Ecuador. During my 
third year of service, I worked with women 
and children in the coastal iungle of the 
black province, Esmeraldas. At the time 
when I applied, 1 was very dissatisfied with 
the United States policy in Vietnam
ing to the Peace Corps is explaining your 
experiences when you return.
Mrs. Baunum mentioned how the 
Peace Corps seems to be looking for a 
different kind of person since she served 
and are now getting the blue collar worker. 
During her stay in Ecuador, she met Mau
reen Gato who is now a Secretary of the 
Music Department and was working in the' 
Peace Corps as a secretary. Mrs. Baunum 
spoke about a man who was recruited into 
the Peace Corps to play vioKn in a sym
phony in Ecuador. While there, he taught 
music and gave some concerts.
Axe For Dance?
continuerl from Daqe 1
gram being uropped; if there is any validity 
to this I would imagine that it exists on an 
administrative level, due to the more strin
gent economic situation and the lack of 
space. As for Theatre Dances non-validity 
as a form of expression, I oppose the idea 
entirely. It is an integral part of the 
theatre.
States another upperclassman, The 
theatre in general is moving towards this 
idea of the combination of acting and 
movement. To combine music, acting and 
movement requires students to be strong in 
all of these areas. I think it should come to 
a point where are actors are practising 
dance every day. One of the problems here 
is that the faculty is individually special
ized; I would like to see a teacher here who 
has already combined these things. If I 
were a freshman now, I would leave be
cause things are so uncertain. Since its in
ception, the dance option has improved in 
many ways, for instance the new Dance 
Studio, and acceptance of the theatre 
dance majors by other memebers of the 
Drama Department where there was once a 
definite discrimination. These are taken for 
granted, but they should not be taken for 
granted. The question is, what do they 
want from us. I feel that what they really 
want is a double major, and this is very 
difficult. The frustration is very inhibiting 
to your work. Some of the upperclassmen
feel thriven to self-concern; as pne student 
expressed it, Ive spent a long, frustrating 
time here; I just want to graduate ... why 
should I, as a student, become a part of the 
administration at this point, worrying 
about the program?
Concerning the question of dropping 
this option, Earle Gisler, Head of the 
Drama Department, emphasized that this is 
a rumor, and that it had simply been men
tioned as an alternative to the financial and 
space difficulties, and the relatively small 
number of dance majors.
One freshman feels that she will have 
gained much by being here this year in 
terms of Modem Dance, which Ive nad 
very little of, and I am benefitting from the 
diversity of techniques of the teachers. 
There definitely is a lack of communica
tion; I think we should all get together and 
talk this thing out. It doesnt do any good 
for students and faculty to run individual
ly to the Head of the Department. I dont 
think that I will come back next year if 
some of this isnt changed.
Martha Amper, the one junior in the 
option, said, It seems to me that this is 
the point not where Theatre Dance here 
should be ended, hut where it should be 
started. The option now has many fine 
students, it has classrooms for their use, 
and is finally equipped with the basics.
Photo by Greg Nickel 
CMU dancers are concerned about the fate of 
their major.Memorial
Service
continued from page 1
organization on campus, to accompany 
him in a discussibn ot related issues with 
CMU President Richard Cyert, an invita
tion which was accepted.
The prevailing mood was one of solem
nity coupled with purposeful anger. As 
Tanya Allmond stated afterward, the main 
point driven home by the shootings was 
that, Blacks must unite to survive, and 
take over their own destiny

---------------------------------------------------

Hage 4THE TARTAN-Tuesday, November 21, 1972
PABST BREWING COMPANY  Milwaukee, Wis., Peoria Heights, III., Newark, N. J., Los Angeles, Cal., Pabst, Ga.
Election
continued from page 1
run the booths, students found that 
although a booth was opened when they 
went into class, when they came out and 
were ready to vote, the booth was no 
longer open and there were no instructions 
directing them where to proceed to if they 
wanted to vote.
At the meeting of the Election Appeals 
Board chaired by Joan Kodish it was 
decided that the election would be 
considered valid because there is not 
enough time to hold another election with 
enough publicity to get a respectable 
student turnout until the week after 
Thanksgiving which would mean in all 
probability that the new senators would 
not take office until the beginning of the 
second semester. By that time there would 
only be about two months until it was time 
for the Spring Election.
Mike Garl, President of Student Govern
ment, felt that we should get Student 
Senate to resign the first day of Spring 
elections forcing everyone to run again. 
The election would of course also include 
new candidates. Presently there are about 
forty members in Student Senate.
As for the election results; In the 
Womens Dorm Council constituency 
Tanya Allmond 31 and Rhonda Cohen 22 
won full terms, while Chris Loge and Marty 
Iisberger ti^d and will share a seat. 
(Numbers after the name indicate the 
number of votes received.)
On the Hill Henry Collins 72, and Rick 
Donner 69 won full terms, Walter Lute 59 
won a half term, and Gary Crosbie and 
James Johnston 54 tied for a half seat.
Full terms in the Fraternities were 
picked up by Mitch (the) Fried 53 and 
Mark Puliafico 45 while half terms were 
won by David Groupe 43 and Stan Edelstein 43.
The commuters made the strongest
Seconds
continued from page 1
Dave Ginevan, head of food and housing 
pointed out, We are going on more than 
just an assumption. The entire summer was 
based on a no 2nds policy which seemed 
to work well. Students appear to be most 
wary about whether there really will be an 
improvement, not the acrtual decision 
itself.
There was general agreement among the 
council members that they would rather 
see this policy in affect during this 
semester as it may influence their decision 
whether to stay on contract next semester. 
When the new class of freshmen entered, 
the majority agreed to food contract on 
the assumption of its necessity. This term, 
they may base their decision to opt for 
contract on the opinion of what theyve 
seen. After the discussion, many represen
tatives agreed that this change should be 
given a chance. The motion the dorm 
council passed was MDC is willing to 
approve a trial period for no seconds in 
Skibo until December 13th. After this 
date, further action may be taken. It was 
passed 13-0-1.
Some other matters which were touched 
upon at the meeting were the reasons no 
vending machine will be installed in 
Donner at this time. Mr. Ginevan explained 
that he could not guarantee the vending 
company that CMU could honor all their 
requests. Dormitories are to be renovated 
for next fall as some women will be moving 
to mens sections of the hill dorms and 
men shall be moving to A tower in More
wood Gardens. This shift could possibly 
call for a restructuring of WDC and MDC. 
Due to complaints, MDC is prohibiting 
musical groups from practicing in the 
dorms. Such groups are allowed to reserve 
a room in Skibo.
voter turnout, which if you think about it, 
is ironic. Leslie Bram received the largest 
number of votes, 79, as well as a full term. 
Full terms were also won by Tom Klopack 
69, Mike Veltri 63, and Marc Elliot Field 
56. Half terms will be filled by Steven 
Clark 50, Pat Stellyte 50, and Arthur Bahl 
45.
Lastly, the graduates elected Dave
Weintraub 22, Dennis Brandi 20, Chuck 
Vukotich 20 to the full terms, while Ellis 
Cohen, Tom Lee, Greg Woodring and 
Ronald Meyrs tied with five votes for one 
full and one half term. Randy Olsen and 
Josef Kokini tied for half terms.
Ed Simon won CCCP President with 44 
votes.
Joe Gill was elected to the CIT College
Council.
As for the H&SS College Council 
Williarh Stewart 15 is the new Sophomore 
representative as Mark Green will represent 0 
th Senior Class (14) with Christine 
Visminas 30 at large. The Freshmen and 
iunior Classes each had several candidates 
tied with one vote, so there will probably 
be a runoff election.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, November 21, 1972Page 5
Announcements:
Food Service will be open and serving a
special Thanksgiving Dinner all day Thurs
day, November 23, 11:30 a.m. to 7:00 
p.m.. Also Food Service will be open 
during Thanksgiving Holiday Recess.
Attention Freshmen, Sophomore, and
Juniors-lf you are thinking of school 
teaching as a career-come to Baker Hall 
room 232 E at 3^30 pm-Wednesday 
November 29 to exchange ideas about 
teaching, and find out how to become a 
certified teacher through the teacher 
education programs at CMU. Any major 
can become a certified teacher. The pro
gram is directed by Ms. Joan Burstyn.
ATTENTION: LAW SCHOOL
APPLICANTS-lnformation on the RootTilden Scholarship Program for the New 
York University School of Law is now 
available in 207 Warner Hall. Each scholar
ship covers full tuition for one year and is 
renewable. The scholarship is awarded 
without regard to financial need, but 
additional financial aid over and above the 
tuition award may be granted.
Marilyn Horne, star of the Metropolitan
Opera, La Scala, Royal Opera House 
Covent Garden, Lyric Opera of Chicago 
and the San Francisco Opera will present 
the second concert of the Music for Mount 
Lebanon series on Saturday evening, 
December 2 at the Mount Lebanon Audi
torium. Tickets may be obtained by calling 
531-8588, or they may be purchased at the 
door.
Pittsburgh Free Media and the University
of Pittsburgh Y.M.C.A. are bringing the 
students a rocking Thanksgiving cele
bration, on November 21. Three dynamite 
local bands will perform from 7 until midnight. Playing will be,SWEET 
LIGHTNING, FAT SAL and BUCKEYE. If 
you've got a quarter, it would be great if 
you could donate it to cover expenses, 
otherwise, the concert is free. The concert 
will be held in the Student Union Ballroom 
at the University of Pittsburgh.
CARE has launched its 1972 Thanksgiving
Food Crusade appeal to help feed more 
than 28 million children ana adults in 34 
countries around the world. CARE's inter
national operation is currently involved in 
one of the largest children's feeding pro
grams in history. Each day of the year10,000 people die of malnutrition and star
vation, most of these are children. To help 
alleviate the suffering of millions, CARE is 
asking the American public to support this 
campaign. Each dollar donated helps feed 
90 children. $5.00 provides milk for 800 
youngsters. During 1972, a large portion of 
donations were designated for use in Ban
gladesh and to other parts of the world 
struck by famine and floods.
Contributions may be sent to CARE, 
Kaufmann's, 400 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, 
Pa. 15219.
A Basic Course in automobile mechanics
for women (and men) will be held during 
lunch hour on a day to be determined. If 
interested contact the YWCA, Room 57 in 
Skibo or extension 239.
Reminder Concerning Text Book Rebate
Procedure!
When: Monday, Nov. 27 through Friday, 
Dec. 15; 9:30 am-4:30 pm.
Where: Room 145 Baker Hall and then to 
Book Store for Cash Rebate.
Basis: 5% on all Text Book purchases 
during the Fall Semester.
Needed: Your Cash Register Receipts on 
which Rebate will be computed.
NEW INTERNATIONAL FELLOWSHIP
PROGRAM-lnformation 207 Warner Hall. 
The Institute of International Education 
has just announced a new fellowship pro
gram that the International Telephone and 
Telegraph Corporation is making available 
for an academic year of study overseas. 
Preference will be given to graduating 
seniors. An allowance of $3,500 for main
tenance, tuition, books and local travel; an 
international travel allowance of $400; 
health and accident insurance will be 
provided.
P R E G N A N T ?- Need Help
ADOPTION SERVICES, PREGNANCY TESTING, ETC. . . . 
NATIONAL FAMILY PLANNING COUNCIL, LTD.
Call: (215) 457-4139 Philadelphia, Pa.
ABORTION
Novembr21eo
PREGNANCY TEST AVAILABLE
,o ,9em21eo 7ro 9V rmmrolVu 
312Y1o ca Yenmt
You can return home the same day you leave.
Call Collect 
215  735  8100
hsVo d yr.t , fVVi
FOREIGN STUDENT PLEASE NOTE:
The International Telephone and Telegraph 
Corporation will also make available thirty 
fellowships each year for foreign students 
who wish to pursue in the United States a 
course of study leading to a master's 
degree.
The Country Dance Society of Pittsburgh
meets regularly on Sunday evenings during 
the college and university terms. Beginning 
and intermediate instruction is given in tra
ditional English dancing, contras, quad
rilles, etc. 7:00 to 9:00 pm, Room 542, 
University of Pittsburgh Student Union, 
Fifth Avenue at Bigelow Boulevard, Nov.
19, Dec. 3, 10, 17.
The John Fitzgerald Kennedy School of
Government of Harvard University an
nounced a new graduate program in Public 
Policy. Ph.D., Master's or joint Master's-professional school degrees offered. 
Applicants should be interested in policy 
analysis and be at ease in both the world of 
words and the world of numbers. Write 
Dean Harry Weiner, Littauer Center, Har
vard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 
02138 for catalog and application.
World-famous Mitch Miller will appear with
the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra at 
Heinz Hall to conduct a special Christmas 
'.'Pops'' Concert on December 20 at 8:30 
p.m. The program will feature the famous 
"Sing Along With Mitch segment of the 
Christmas songs. Miller appeared here last 
spring in two sell-out concerts with the 
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra. The first 
half of the program will begin with ''Deck 
the Halls", followed by "Variations on Joy 
to the World", "Fantasia on Greensleeves", 
"Jesu, Joy of Man's Desiring" and a suite 
from the ballet, "Nutcracker". The second 
half of the program will contain "Sleigh 
Ride", "Pat-a-Pan", selections from 
"Oliver!" and the Sing Along of Christmas 
songs.
ANABANANA IN CONCERT-Chatham
College Chapel, 8:30 pm Saturday evening, 
Dec. 2, Free.
Come Fly With Us
Have you ever wondered whether you were 
cut out to be a flyer? Well, now's your 
chance to find out. Come on out and take 
an orientation flight in a Navy T-34  on 
honest-to-goodness primary flight trainer. 
There's no obligation and its absolutely free. 
Find out w-hat the campus looks like from 
the air and find out a lot about yourself at 
the same time.
TheNavy
Get details now on these 
free flights on NOV. 18-19 
and how you can havkc a 
starting salary of 11,$00 
after graduation. Call 
Larry Graves or Don Martin 
at 644-5889
Bells on bobtail ring
Cause the M.l. Chorus will sing 
"Songs of the Christmas Season"
This year's program will be presented on 
Friday, December 15, 1972 at 8:30 pm in 
the Mellon Institute Auditorium. Refresh
ments will be served in the Conference 
Room after the program.
The department of Modern Languages will
offer a course on "Women and Women's 
Lib in French Literature"during the Spring 
semester, 1973. The readings and discus
sion will be in French. Any inquiry about 
the course can be addressed to: Michel 
Fougeres, Modern Languages.
BETOS PIZZA
P12zr, He2 Herl1Vt
11 pm-1 am M.F, 4 pm-l am S-S
682-6656
Classified Arts
New Legal Service for Students: If you are
a student with a legal related problem and 
need legal counseling, call STUDENT 
HELP CENTER, 683-2133.
Compact refriegerators for rent-4% cubic
foot or 2Y2 cubic foot. Ideal for apartments 
and dormitories. Save food! Save money 
and eat better! Call 279-7951. After 7 pm 
only.
Draft Counseling provided by Attorney
without charge. Sponsored by B'nai B'rith 
Hillel Foundation, 315 S. Beliefield, 3rd 
floor. Every Tuesday evening 7 to 8:30 
pm. 621-8875.
Have problems? Need help? Call the HELP
CENTER-683-2133-for information and refeiral for legal, medical, drug and emo
tional problems. 24 hour answering 
service-683-2133.
Russia for Sale: Educational Holiday; 4
days Moscow, 3 days Leningrad. First Class 
hotels with bath, all meals, sightseeing, and 
transfers, including ballet or circus each 
city. Only $399 plus 10% for visas, taxes, 
and service. Departure date January 6, 
1973.
Call Ms. Zhivago at 391-4499 or write 
Scandinavian Airlines, 2 Penn Center, Phil
adelphia, Pa. 19102.
RU6S
'Mi yaw ID Goff*
1000 9x12 Rugs SIS SIO S29 S49
mm MK 1%1 X Iteli* m 
 wwousAu wewmee  
CDftOOMS, UVlNOaOOAASw CTC 
AVAIlAMf AT NCAASY 9M0WMOOMS
CHASES
Th esotoi
OPOtDAILY lOAJktotM- fWrter*ry IO A *J

---------------------------------------------------

raye oAhlTMNflesuaV, iVUvemubi z,' tTANWRCT/9
by Joan McCluskey no* played fr eight straight weeks before
it goes on to its greater reward. Each hour
Okay, kid, this is your big chance, segment, after playing a quota of required 
Throw those questions hard and fast and selections, i-e- a certain number of albums, 
bring me back a big feature. A slap on the singles, etc., is filled out with whatever the 
back and I was off zipping across the hall programmer or disc jockey happens to feel 
from the TARTAN office to Skibo room is appropriate. The music segments are 
48, phone number 621-9728, the place interspersed with ABC news every hour on 
with the fifteen cent cokes, better known the hour, and campus news Mondays 
as WRCT. This strange collection of through Thursdays at 7:30 pm. On 
studios, engineers, and turntables overseen Fridays, theres city news, and on Sunday, 
by General Manager Jeff Gruger and Pro- a program entitled Perspective CMU 
gram Director Brad Simon, and a jumbled takes a closer look at the university, and 
collection of associate directors and pertinent happenings in and around it. The 
assistant programmers, manage to turn out entire station is geared toward informing 
an incredible amount of good music, news and entertaining the students and members 
specials, and other items of interest to the of the campusthey make up its entire 
stations only audience, the CMU campus, audience.
Since WRCTs listeners are mainly Since WRCT is aware of the rather
university students and faculty, many limited size of its listening audience, an 
problems faced by commercial stations do effort is being made to cater to the
not exist to the same extent. Instead of individual tastes of smaller sections of the
catering to everyone from old ladies to camDUS DODulation. One idea is that there
teenyboppers, the station is able to play will be regular blocks of listening time
mainly progressive rock, with enough devoted to one segment of CMU. Instead 
classical, jazz, rhythm and blues, and of being entirely a progressive music stagolden oldies thrown in to satisfy just tion> there will be tim^ when a listener
about everyone. The goals of the station, knows that for the next hour it will be
to entertain and inform the CMU campus hard rock> or whatever, and that he wont 
and community, are therefore much more be interrupted by the jazz just when he s 
defined than they might otherwise be, and getting in the right mood to enjoy the 
both the radio and its audience benefit. show. At the same time there will be other
The station, however, is not without tyP^ of music specifically introduced into 
problems. Since WRCT is an AM station, these blocks occasionally, to try to broadthe transmission is very inefficient, and en *be listeners range of musical appreciaplugging in your forbidden electric frying tion. The idea is to both satisfy and in
pan is liable to leave you with a steady terest ^ listeners, while also extending
buzz instead of James Taylor. FM radio, on basic tastes and preferences, 
the other hand, has a signal quality that is CMU is not renowned as a heavily athquieter, cleaner, and generally superior, letic university, but WRCT does its best to 
Also, because of the present power system keep enthusiasts happily informed of 
at CMU, WRCT needs at least three trans
mitters spread out over the campus to 
reach all areas effectively. On an FM 
system, only one transmitter and antenna 
would be needed. Problems posed 
presently such as equipment and main
tenance repair would be greatly decreased.
WRCT hopes to have the CarnegieMellon Student Government Corporation 
hold the FM license, since the station is a 
student activity and, as such, receiver 
Student Activities money. This would 
maintain WRCT as a student activity, 
operated and controlled by the students 
themselves.
, Since WRCT is handled by students, 
everyone also attends classes, and the 
amount of time the individual can devote 
to the station is limited. Lack of manpower 
is one of the largest problems faced, and 
there is no way around it. The student 
turnover is rapid, and just as one set of disc 
jockeys and engineers have been trained, 
they're getting ready to graduate and the 
necessary skills must be taught to a whole 
group of new freshmen. Most people 
decide to join the station because its fun, 
and also different from the usual route of 
extracurricular activities. The time 
demanded in running a station effectively, 
however, is very great, and the deter
mination necessary to continue is some
times extremely great. At present, the 
station is on an automated system, 
student-designed, for 14 hours a day, from 
9 am to 5 pm, and 2 am to 5 am. Hope
fully a larger staff will be able to increase 
the number of hours of live show time.
WRCTs actual programming is done on 
a very organized basis. The station has a 
record library of over 5000 albums and 
singles, which it gets free from the record
companies. It is able to pick and choose Photo by can
who it plays, and when, and does not have Randy Subers at controls - WRCT intends to
to satisfy a Top 40 listening audience. The convert to F.M. after Christmas, 
rate of change is very high, and a record is
scores during the football and basketball 
seasons. As a local station, WRCT has cov
ered every home and away game, via an 
open line telephone courtesy of Ma Ball. A 
lack of well-trained and easily mobile 
sportscasters has sometimes made this 
rather difficult, but hopefully this years 
influx of freshmen will bring about in
terested students to train as sports 
announcers.
WRCT, Where your friends are, is a 
real asset to the CMU campus. It is the 
most easily available source of local in
formation; it covers local and national 
elections, football games, President Cyerts 
announcements. It is student controlled 
and operated, and dedicated to enter
taining a very small portion of the Pitts
burgh population intelligently and capably.
Photo by Carl Grefenstette \
WRCT, CMU's student radio station is trying to get an FM license.
Commentary
Fmization Supported
by Craig Collins
Those who bothered to read both the 
TARTANs feature of November 7 
uncovering the views of the Student Senate 
candidates and then the fine print on the 
Vote for Me leaflets tacked onto campus 
bulletin boards noticed the introduction of 
a new issue: the fate of campus radio.
Somewhere, somehow, the FMization 
of WRCT became a new non-controversial 
controversy. Candidates took radical stands 
and declared their support for the format 
change. Everyone seemed to agree that the 
change should be made, and thus the in
dividual candidates proclaimed their stands 
as caiise for their election. Some even went 
over the heads of the FCC and assigned 
WRCT the new output frequency of 88.3. 
Their obvious ploy: give the student a taste 
of the pie before it has even been baked. 
What else is new.
The uproar is understandable (though 
its origins remain uncertain). Pittsburgh 
radio, neglecting the quality of the music 
itself, has probably never been worse. KQV 
stuffs your ear canals with banal bubble 
gum. KDKA has been wooing lovers of 
Andy Williams for years now. WIXZ may 
be fine for McKeesport, but many college 
students prefer other sounds beside Chuck 
Berry and the 9000 episodes of the History 
of Rock and Roll. Most other stations have 
never been in the running.
Turning the knob, one finds the FM 
band cluttered y with Ray Coniff, Herb 
Alpert, and innumerable orchestrated 
versions of Yesterday and other easily 
adaptable Lennon-McCartney songs. Even 
the classical stations are immersed in 
mediocrity.
The sound emanating from 102.5 rates 
its own special comments. A few years ago, 
as KQV-FM, ABC-Love broadcast what 
could be truly called underground. Poetry 
and contemporary musical comment were 
not beyond the scope of its programming. 
Then, as if a giant set of tweezers went into 
action, KQV-FM was plucked from the air
ways and replaced with a mutant strain 
called WDVE. Rot In Stereo. You know 
the rest. The AM of FM proceeded to play 
album cuts which frequently just happened 
to coincide with their release as singles. So 
it goes.
The result of all this is the arrival of a 
ripe time for a new-format radio station. 
WRCTs job is now to recognize what 
needs to be done to fill the void. Then, if 
they are to win back the student as 
. r:*1 On which
band campus radio appears is immaterial 
we first must have a reason to listen to it.
Only then should there be avid concern as 
to where on the dial one may tune in.
Thus, the candidates who promoted a 
WRCT-FM were really only waving 
banners. It is all too easy to predict what 
will happen now. Decisions will be made, 
Student Senate will give the go-ahead for 
FM, then something will happen. The FCC 
will reject the application, or financial 
difficulties will arise, or something, ine 
pessimism seems to be justified.
The staff of WRCT works hard to put 
out quality programming. This article does 
not question their effort, but their 
direction. It is time for them to test the \ 
wind and then lean against it. The students 
criterion for listening will be the pleasure 
he derives from the sounds in his head, not 
from the location of the red line on his 
tuner.
Film Grants 
Available
by Jim Oppenheimer
In conjunction with the 4th Annual
C.M.U. Film Festival to be held next April 
6th and 7th, the Activities Board Pro- ) 
graming Fund and the Department of Stu
dent Activities have announced that a 
series of monetary grants will be made available to students interested in producing 
films for the festival. The grants are in
tended to encourage more extensive filmmaking activities at C.M.U. and to reduce 
financial burdens that many filmmakers 
face. >
To apply for a grant students are asked 
to submit, as clearly as possible, a descrip
tion of the film to be made (including 
items such as film type, estimated length, 
etc.), the costs involved in production and 
the amount needed. Since funds are quite 
limited filmmakers are asked to request 
only what they cant afford. The applica
tions should include name, address, phone , 
number, department and year, and should 
be sent to:
The Film Workshop 
Skibo 103 
Campus Mail 
or brought to the information desk. The 
deadline for applications will be the first 
week of next semester (January 12) and 
he grants will be announced a week later.
It is important that the ideas submitted are 
well thought out and practical.
The equipment for making films can be 
obtained through campus filmmaking 
courses, rented from teaching aids, or bor
rowed by members of organizations such as 
the C.M.U. Film Workshop or the 
Pittsburgh Filmmakers Association.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, November 21, 1972
Westinghouse President, G-MU Trustee, 
And Corporate Do-Gooder
by Mike Hill
Don Burnham, chairman of Westinghouse Electric Corporation, recently 
delivered the Fairless Memorial Lectures 
for 1972. In agreeing to do the series, he 
said, It was a great honor and I was 
privileged to accept it.
Burnham became chairman at Westinghouse in 1963, and since has led the thenslumping corporation to the position of 
international prominence it enjoys today. 
However, his success lies not only in his 
managerial genius. Mr. Burnham devotes 
substantial efforts to corporate-related 
issues such as pollution, minority groups, 
and employee relations. As an example, 
last year he began a 15 million dollar 
pollution clean-up campaign for Westing
house plants. Business Week said of 
Burnham, who operates from his office on 
the top floor of the beautiful new 
Westinghouse building in Gateway Center, 
He is a corporate do-gooder at the top.
Mr. Burnham was interviewed with his 
public relations manager, Tom Phares, at 
his office Thursday.TARTAN: Are any special provisions made 
for workers from minority groups at 
Westinghouse?Burnham: Weve made a real effort to hire 
people from minority groups. However, 
once theyre here, they fall into the main
stream and are treated just like everyone 
else.TARTAN: Do you follow an Affirmative 
Action Plan?Burnham: We have our own Progress 
Program, which is essentially the same 
thing. We follow it, and we believe in it. TARTAN: Do you at all consider this 
reverse discrimination?Burnham: Well, I suppose we do pay 
special attention to them, but not enough 
so as to be unjust to the other workers. 
Everyone is payed on the same level and 
promoted at the same rate. Right now, 
there are very few workers from minority 
groups holding top positions, because there 
are very few who have been around long 
enough to have worked their way very far 
up the ladder.TARTAN: It appears that the war in Viet
nam is ending. This may be followed by a 
large-scale conversion of military-industry 
into different industries. How will this 
affect production at Westinghouse? Burnham: As it stands now, about ten per
cent of our production is military. 
However, we do not deal with munitions 
and supplies, but rather with sophisticated 
electronics and nuclear research. For 
example, we made the first camera used by 
the astronauts on the moon. On the whole, 
ideas developed in our military research are 
usually very applicable to civil problems. 
Consequently, we are in a continual state
of conversion; converting developments in 
military industry into useful social 
industries. In other words, we like to apply 
our military-industrial know-how to 
people problems. So, the ending of this 
war should not affect our output very
about 45,000 work in nations other than 
the U.S.TARTAN: Doesnt this then cut down on 
the number of jobs available here? Burnham: No, we increase exports and 
total manufacturing considerably. In fact,
Photo by Bruce Edelston 
Donald Burnham, President of Westinghouse, answering questions about the present concerns
of Westinghouse as related to big business.
much. Of course, I would like to see the 
war end as much as anyone else.TARTAN: Multi-nationalism seems to have 
become a trend for large corporations. 
Does Westinghouse manufacture in foreign 
countries?Burnham: Up until six or seven years ago, 
we didnt have any manufacturing opera
tions abroad. We made products here and 
licensed foreign corporations to use our 
patents. But, as other nations modernized, 
we needed manufacturing abroad if we 
were to compete. We now have plants in 
over twenty nations. We think this is 
important, because our ideas and research 
are useful in other countries as well as here.
We dont manufacture abroad just to get 
low cost labor to ship back to the U.S. We 
make abroad to sell abroad. About 20- per
cent of sales last year were abroad. We 
hope to get it up to about 30 percent. # 
TARTAN: Who controls these production 
centers?Burnham : We have a controlling interest in 
all of them. Usually, there is 20-25 percent 
ownership by people local to the individual 
plants, and in 90 percent of the cases, 
management positions are held exclusively 
by local people. We think that projects will 
have a better chance at success if they are 
handled by people who are more directly 
affected by them._TARTAN: How many people work in 
these overseas plants?Burnham: Out of 180,000 total employees,
our domestic working body has risen from 
110 to 140 thousand since we expanded to 
other countries. I dont believe this would 
be so if we didnt manufacture abroad. TARTAN: Since many corporations,
including Westinghouse, are now expanding 
into international businesses, do you feel 
they are becoming too large?Burnham: No, especially in electronics, I 
think it is the competition between large 
companies that keeps the products in the 
low price range they are now in. For 
example, a refridgerator costs less in dollars 
than it did ten or fifteen years ago. TARTAN: How about from the point of 
view of a small business?Burnham: Small businessmen, especially in 
a large field like electronics, usually deal in 
a small line of products, and put all of their 
efforts into it. They do not have the 
research facilities that we do, but they do 
compete. As ah example, we are not manu
facturing any more small appliances (such 
as radios and toasters) because we cannot 
compete with smaller companies.
TARTAN: Do you ever have any trouble 
with Anti-Trust suits?Burnham: We dont expect any trouble, 
because we stay very close to the law. 
However, the entire electronic industry 
suffered from Anit-Trust action in 1960. 
But we will never have a suit filed to try to 
break us up, as has been the case with IBM. TARTAN: The success of businesses and 
corporations is fairly definable, and can be 
measured by a calculation of gains, losses, 
and the like. However, the success of an 
educational institution is much less 
tangible. As a manager, and as a Trustee of 
CMU, how would you evaluate its success 
as an university?Burnham: That is very difficult ... I dont 
believe it can be measured, except over a 
long period of time, by how students are 
doing 10-20 years after theyve graduated. 
An important part of it, though, is re
cruiting good students to begin with. Weve 
had a lot of CMU students over the years. TARTAN: Over the next three or four 
years, what do you expect in the way of 
qualifications for jobs at Westinghouse? Burnham: Well still be looking for a lot of 
engineers. Well also need people trained in 
business, and even some people with back
grounds in the liberal arts. In other words, 
there will be a need for people trained in 
people oriented disciplines. Demand for 
engineers will keep up, but other areas will 
rjse. Therei will be a trend toward services, 
such as health care, and not just manu
facturing. At this point, we are not just 
worried about machines-were interested in 
doing a better job with our people.
Pregnant? 
Need Help?
For assistance and information
on a confidential basis . . 
us  we will help you.
COLLEGE 
CAMPUSES 
. FOR 
WOMEN'S 
RIGHTS 
(215) 449-2006
(215) 449-2007
(anytime)
call
Take it from one with a man-sized 
yen. men. When a *Big Man on Campus 
gets a big thirst, it takes a big drink to 
satiate it. Ahd nothing. I repeat nothing, 
titillates the tonsils and taunts a thirst 
like Akadama Red. Fred.
Akadama RedThe toast of the campus.
Imported by Suntory International. Los Angeles. Calif
Holiday Sale
STARTS NOVEMBER 27
SsV71rl mVun721eo eo
Boxed Christmas Cards 
Boxed Christmas Candy
Stationery  Soft Goods  Ceramics
NnbVment h2YVm N2Vbt vem G1v2 G1v1ol
Last chance to get your Superbox 
only 99 centsfTim Troc essTmgspe cm.
,ll sYe2e sme7Vtt1ol 2nmoVu 1o unm1ol 
2YV 3VVi ev NevVb9Vm cd eol.!
20% off Regular Price 
C-MU BOOK*STORE

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8THE TARTANTuesday, November 21, 1972
ENTERTAINMENT
Sylvia Miles Comes to Town
Films and Television
Sylvia's a Mother, Revisited
Sylvia Miles, star of "Heat
Miles with Ken Costigan in "Virginia Woolf"
Theater
Whos Afraid of Virginia Woolf ?
by Susan N. Klein
Edward Albees dynamic and demonic 
Whos Afraid of Virginia Woolf?, now a 
decade old, is being revived at the Pitts
burgh Playhouse, and if you have a spare 
minute between now and December 3rd, it 
demands to be seen. Other than the 
magnetism of the play itself, the Playhouse 
has a big box-office draw by the name of 
Sylvia Miles. If Fred Gormley is repulsed at 
the idea of Elizabeth Taylor in a Sada 
Thompson role, he ought to take a look at 
Sylvia Miles in not only Lizs role, but Uta 
Hagens from Broadway. These casting 
coups often boggle the mind.
Its not that Ms. Miles gives a bad 
performance. Quite the contrary, she gives 
an excellent performance-for Sylvia Miles. 
And throughout the whole play she just 
doesnt let the audience forget that she is 
Sylvia Miles up there, so clap hard you 
Pittsburgh hicks, this is a once in a lifetime 
opportunity.
Maybe youve heard that Albee 
originally wrote Virginia Woolf about 
two male homosexual couples. Or maybe 
youve heard that the play is all about the 
American Revolution. What is important 
here is what the pure, raw bitchiness of the 
play tells you about yourself. Every time 
you laugh at the acerbic absurdities tossed 
around between George and Martha, every 
time you see and hear yourself in one of 
their vitriolic games, you are reinforcing 
and heightening Albees point. You are a 
party to the degradation of American 
society, to the wasted woman, wasted 
minds, starved and strangling marriages, 
mangled motivations and warped morals.
Albee holds attention with a vise-like 
grip throughout the entire three-act play. 
He makes ones ears strain for fear of 
missing a single acrid-edged syllable of the
banter flying between the two university 
couples. And as the characters emerge from 
the liquor-soaked haze of the night before, 
the audience awakes as if from a trance. 
This is a credit not only to the play and its 
author, but to the finely polished pro
duction being done at the Playhouse.
As much as she might like to, Sylvia 
Miles will never be able to steal this show. 
The other performers are simply too good, 
and her direction is too well tempered and 
neatly restrictive. Ms. Miles played Martha 
with an unreserved gutsiness that was at 
times almost too vulgar for her role. Her 
grainy voice accentuated the searing wit of 
her character, and her comic timing was 
always perfect. Ken Costigan gave George 
an air of humbled brilliance, a man once 
aggresive and status-conscious but now 
flagrantly aware of his unimportance and 
how he has made his life worthless. George 
and Martha are completely engulfed in the 
sick games-playing, annihilating with a 
violent fervor and feeding on the remains 
of the victims. The victims in this case are 
Nick, a handsome young biology professor, 
and his mousy wife Honey. David Emge 
was properly beguiled and puppet-like as 
Martha leads him around by the nose. And 
although Barbara Lynn Block gave me the 
impression she was trying to be Sandy 
Dennis, she was adeptly meek and wistful 
as Honey.
S. Joseph NassiPs direction was sharply 
focused and conservative. The cast did 
need a bit of cleaning up; actors stepping 
on each others lines and mixing up 
possesive pronouns is inexcusable, but 
generally the play flows smoothly and the 
characters actions never belie their words. 
They are always completely believable. The 
set by Mary Ellen Kennedy was extremely 
attractive, and the lighting and costumes
care that some day, SHE would make a 
guest appearance in my boring life.
Last Saturday, I saw a preview of her 
new film, Heat and had the pleasure of 
interviewing her.
Sylvia Miles is Central Park South 
Everywoman. She was dressed in a nifty 
jacket, some sort of black and white fur 
with ostritch feathers around the cuffs, lots 
of jewelry, the latest in everything, in
cluding freshly reconstituted blonde hair. 
So much for the superficialities. She was 
tough, likeable, intelligent (knows all the 
right big words-Pll bet she even knows 
what auteurism is) and beautifully 
cynical. So whats bothering you, Fred?
The fact that Miles has been deleted 
from many films before her Oscar 
nomination for Midnight Cowboy has 
made her a walking publicity machine, 
and I felt someone of her obvious talent 
shouldnt have to do that crass self-sell. 
Prostitution. Its a necessity in American 
performing arts, but that doesnt change 
the repulsion I feel for a system that is 
willing to create whores but is too lazy to 
pimp for them. (Understand that I use the 
word whore in theory.)
The film itself is hilarious, the funniest 
film Ive seen this year. Required viewing 
for Heat is Sunset Boulevard, which it 
satirizes beautifully. Sylvia Miles says that 
she didnt see Boulevard until six weeks 
ago, but the director and the screenwriter 
did, obviously. The opening theme is 
enough to make you buy an album by 
John Cale (of The Velvet Underground) 
and the performances are more natural 
than anything youll see in a slicker script. 
This film represents a departure from 
Warhol/Morrisseys expected style-no white 
cuts, trickier camera work, and intentional 
use of color (so it seems). You must be 
used to the Warhol techniques to appre
ciate the fact this is a different approach, 
and you must see the film. Bring along 
cushions for the floor, though. The friend I 
brought along literally fell into the aisle at 
the last line, and would have a dislocated 
hip were it not for the fact that he is 
composed entirely of foam rubber, and 
bounces naturally.
were appropriate and nothing spectacular.
Whos Afraid of Virginia Woolf? is 
going to be a classic American drama some 
day. Right now it is a fiery, sardonic and 
brilliant modern work, and if you see any
thing at all at the Playhouse this season, 
make it this.
by Frederick Gormley
First of all, some apologies for my 
misinformative article of last week, which 
was oozing with blatant mistakes. 
Specifically: Savage Messiah is about 
Henri Gaudier-Brzeska, and not CartierBresson (sheer oversight and stupidity on 
my part, as I know the difference between 
the two men); and Gene Hackman is not in 
The King of Marvin Gardens, never was, 
and never will be. However, Jack Nicholson 
is, and shall be forever.
When I lived in New York (having 
decided I was ready to be on my own at 
the worldly age of seventeen) I spent many 
nights reading, as I didnt have a television 
set, and movies cost too much for me to 
consider them as anything but a luxury. 
After my library card had been revoked, I 
resorted to reading the phone book. 
Really, its great fun for idle minds-there 
are so many things one can do with the 
white pages. One thing is to play a sort of 
poor mans I Ching, by tossing rancid 
Fritos into the mysterious pages, and either 
call or pretend to call (alleviating the threat 
of a whopping phone bill) the unfortunate 
name obscured by the corn chip. (Note: 
Dialing for Dollars is rumored to use my 
method extensively). Sometimes the Frito 
would land on a famous name, as there are 
incautious Big Name Personalities who 
neglect to take their names from the book 
and get unlisted numbers. Some of these 
capricious souls are Julie Newmar, Rita 
Moreno, and Sylvia Miles. I have a long
standing infatuation with Newmar, and 
Moreno cracks me up, but Sylvia Miles?
Hence, the time that elapsed between 
my New York travails and these dirty-salad 
days at Carnegie-Mellon when I got the 
chance to meet Miles were hardly spent in 
anxious anticipation. Little did I know or

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, November 21, 1972Page 9
Record Review
An Evening With Groucho
by Arnie Karr
Groucho Marxs effect on me is awe
some. I would be satisfied if his new A&M 
album contained only Harpo monologues.
( However, the album is much, much more. 
It is the power of Grouchos reputation 
and the substantial remains of his incredi
ble talent which make this recording of a 
sharp, but fading, 83 year old as enjoyable 
as any humor album released in recent 
years. (And that goes double for Cheech 
and Chong.)
The album was recorded at two concerts 
at Iowa State University and New Yorks 
Carnegie Hall in May of this year. Ive been 
told that Grouchos audiences were primar
ily made up of people who were approach
ing adolescence when Harpo passed away. 
People like you and me. To us, the Marx 
Brothers fourteen films cannot be consid
ered nostalgia. They are brand new and 
conspicuous only in their excellence. Two 
weeks ago, I saw a 38 year old Groucho 
skillfully evading his employees demands 
for overdue wages in Cocoanuts. Now I 
hear this record. Instant time warp.
Grouchos voice, once a precise instru
ment perfectly matched with such inane 
material as Fredonias National Anthem 
and Rufus T. Fireflys Inaugural Song in 
Duck Soup, has practically vanished, the 
victim of many years and too many cigars. 
Yet, Groucho has not lost his rapport with 
the absurd. If anything, he sings, Hello, I 
Must be Going with more wit and sarcasm 
than ever before. The song has many tech
nical problems when included in Animal 
Crackers. On record, it is just Groucho 
busy getting his rude point across. The flat 
notes in the song become secondary. 
Whats important is that we have Groucho. 
His brain, in peak condition, makes up for 
his voice, in no condition.
The music is not always funny. Groucho 
sings an Irving Berlin tune which Marx 
claims Berlin offered him money not to 
sing. This boast is the only humorous part 
of the song. Stay Here Where You 
Belong, an anti-war song from the World 
War I era, is the tale of the devil begging his 
son to stay in hell rather than fight a war 
on earth where the kings, who the devil 
describes as being more wicked than him, 
make butchers out of brothers. The song 
is a relevant addition to an irreverant al
bum. It helps bridge the gap between Ser
bia and Vietnam with a universal theme, 
just as Groucho bridges the gap between 
1918 and 1972 with the one thing we all 
can appreciate: good humor.
Groucho still has the power to send 
even the most puritanical listener into 
hysterics with a blasphemous joke. After a 
clergyman stops him on the street to thank 
him for all the joy youve put into this 
world, Groucho shakes, his hand and 
thanks him for all the joy youve taken 
out of this world. A priest comments that 
his mother loved his old TV show, You 
Bet Your Life. The ungrateful Groucho 
replies, I didnt know you had mothers. I 
thought it was immaculate conception. In 
a less offensive but harder to believe se
quence, Groucho recalls his first date. 
After the girl spends her half of the return 
car fare on saeurkraut candy (?), Groucho 
tells her to walk home.
A man who lived a life as eventful as 
Groucho cannot help but to recall the 
many people he worked with through the 
years. He brings the deceased to life. After 
Dick Cavett introducws Groucho by recal
ling the many characters he portrayed in 
films, such as J. Cheever Loophole, Otis P. 
Driftwood and Dr. Hugo Hackenbush, 
Groucho acknowledged his accomplices in 
zaniness by taking a bow for Harpo and
Crbsnt CrbVmr HVruqnrm2Vmt 
FOR ALL YOUR 
PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS
F1lb
Pme7Vtt1ol  Eqn1sbVo2
CAMERA EXCHANGE
S2nuVo2 y1t7eno2 eo Met2 N2Vb
Two Locations 
OAKLAND3711 Forbes Avenue 
SHAOYSIDE5432 Walnut Street
Phone: 683-2181 
Phone: 683-8900
How to tell iff youve outgrown thelO- minute
hamburger. If you've outgrown the bal
loons and the clowns And youre sick and tired of standing 
in line with a million kids. You've probably outgrown the 
10-roinute hamburger. And now - you're ready - for Arby's 
Arbys has a tender, juicy roast beef sandwich we spent 
four hours cooking. And now that youre older you can 
appreciate that Savory roast beef cooked slowly. Instead 
of ground meat fried quick So the next time someone 
suggests the hamburger hangout with the kids Why dont 
you suggest Arby's? Without the kids
C
~ * I iL  Electiotn
ffor$2I
Good only at Oakland Arbys I
tK-il.-,,, Coupon valid: |
2*2"STu UorJi 25'bonawldi IS 1972 |
Chico. He also has some fine stories involv
ing Fanny Brice, Cecil DeMille, Bob Hope, 
Bing Crosby and W.C. Fields. The Fields 
episode is more than can be believed. I 
wont even attempt to describe it here.
There is a legendary story often told 
about Groucho which indicates the empha
sis of this album. The Marx Brothers were 
doing a tour with one of their most illustri
ous writers. George S. Kaufman, trying out 
Kaufmans material for one of their mov
ies. Kaufman would sit off stage and note 
the audiences reaction to the script and to 
the Brothers ad libbing. On this tour, as 
always, there was an abundance of the lat
ter. One day, Kaufman was listening to a 
Groucho monologue when he dropped his 
pencil and notebook and began to stare at 
the stage. One of the stage hands, observing 
Kaufmans catatonic state, asked him what 
was wrong. His only reply was, I thought 
I heard one of my lines.
In 1972, Groucho is still the inventive 
performer weve always known him to be. 
Even at his age, he continues to think of 
new things to say rather than to just rehash 
all of his superb old material. Between his 
memories and his mind, Groucho is probJames Wright 
Cancelled
Poet James Wright did not appear here 
as scheduled last Thursday. Activities 
Board Lecture Chairman Rod Kleiman 
reported that Wrights plane was delayed 
for three hours and was not scheduled to 
arrive in Pittsburgh until after 10:00 p.m. 
Under these conditions it was deemed 
necessary to cancel the reading, claims 
Kleiman.
ably the funniest man to ever speak a line 
on the stage or on the screen. Woody Allen 
asserts just this in the albums liner notes. 
He declares, I came to the conclusion that 
Groucho Marx was the best comedian this 
country ever produced. Now I am more 
convinced than ever that-1 was right. I cant 
think of a comedian who combined a 
totally original physical conception that 
was hilarious with a matchless verbal 
delivery ... I believe his outrageous uns
entimental disregard for order will be 
equally as funny a thousand years from 
now. In addition to all this he makes me 
laugh.
As the professors obligingly say in 
Horsefeathers, Exactly. Thats what I 
think.
fa
UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH THEATRE
PRESENTS
Bertolt Brecht and Kurt Weill's
THE THREEPENNY OPERA
BOX OFFICE 
621-3500, ext. 331 
1-5 p.m. - Mon. - Sat.
FOSTER MEMORIAL 
8 30 p.m 
Nov 17, 18.
Dec. 1, 2, 6, 7, 8, 9
only S minuts i
OV<Copyn9M.1971 Marketing 4
fi
Freshness and Excitement! Moving and Hilarious!
Rex Reed, New York Daily News
High comedy and low tragedy. A gifted and off-beat cast.
Judith Crist, New York Magazine
Rndy Ularhol Presents
"No mmssinDRO SecSfaUIR miliES 111 "HEBT
A film by Paul MomSSey *rtfi Andrea Feldman Ray Vestal P J Lester as Sidney and introducing Pal Asl 
In Color A Syn-Frank Enterprises Inc N0 uesda y, Isotvvds m
SHADYSIDE
THEATRE
Walnut Street 
MU-2-1901

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, November 21, 1972
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------A DVERTISEMENT -------------------------------------------------------9
Operations News
+ OPERATIONS NEWS will appear in the Tartan the third week + 
of each month. In this first issue, we hope to show the
? functions of the Operations Division and its place within + 
the University, and summarize some of the changes made
? since its inception in July. Future issues will attempt ? 
to keep you up to date on Operations activities and help
? to familiarize you with the services of the Division. ?
? ???????? ? ? ? ? 
STRUCTURE of the UNIVERSITY
Academic 
Affairs
Student
AffairsOPERATIONS
CIT
CFA
HSS
MMCC
MIS
GSIA
SUPA
Office of Graduate 
Admissions
Financial Aid 
Faculty Senate 
Libraries 
Hunt Institute
Alumni 
Development 
Placements 
Public Relations 
& Publications
Studies
Accounting Services 
Budgets and Insurance 
Financial Services 
Cashiers Office 
Credits & Collection 
Investments 
Contracts and Grants 
Systems and Procedures 
Internal Auditor
Athletics & Phys. Ed. 
intercollegiate 
intramural 
Counseling Center 
Dean of Men 
Dean of Women 
Foreign Student Advisor 
Health Service 
Military Science 
Office of Inst. Studies 
Registrar
Student Activities 
Religious Associates
Planning and Analysis
Purchasing
General Stores
General Services
Security
Personnel
Research & Educational Services 
Computation Center 
Physical Plant Services 
Building Services
SOME IMPROVEMENTS MADE BY DEPARTMENTS
* 0t
SINCE THEY BECAME PART 
OF OPERATIONS*7,&
Ml
ew. Oo
,,
>S '*>
bh,
iO,7,
?>vt!ve
'P(SS
eWnfeSI
Naav
vi&
\\
,.0 
a<\' 
S#*
'<?>b, >*%
<5ijoh
APL
9<?
%
**?>; v. "X
^o'S^)S<v%S/V
open every day of the year with lonaer hours ^ Aes self-service terminal for printina datasets
contract refund anytime
partial renovation of both dining rooms
special event dinners 
(such as pre-theatre)
tfvO,rePLAGO added to system
vT .
e^:Se
more variety in menus
students employed as manaaers
to % >
<5L /
Oj.
-Ss
batch system debugging availablecenter
lockers installed 
PDP-11 interface
between terminals and 360
CL<v;
meal ticket accepted in 
C% gri 11 from 7 p.m. to midnight
% t/f'L **
>
W S
v*o %\*ry 9. ** /?
 O *% i. 0*0 ^
ne vT CJL5% discount cash coupons ^ ^ ^
for faculty, staff, and students % *
the cun of coffee 
low-cal orie specialsV
extensions to UNITREC 
new card interpreter
interpreter character set expandec
self-service plotting and 
graphics facilities installed
student allocation for 
PDP-8 time-sharing system

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, November 21, 1972Page 11
AD VERI /SEMEN T
OPERATIONS DIVISION****************************
Chief Officer
Di rector
Ronald Rutledae
Harry Rowell
Assistant to Chief Officer Flsie Cupel!i
(Handles special arrangements and inter-office communication within Division)
178
198
124
PLANNING
and
ANALYSIS
Purchasing
Accounting Louise Negley
(Accounting, payroll, and budget management for Division)
Systems Analysis Jim Booton
(Long range market nlanning and development)
Ombudsman Frank Col osimo
(receives comments, criticisms, and requests about Division 
services from faculty, students, and staff)
John Heinlein
(Directs and channels Division reouisitions and expenditures to off-camnus agencies)
General Stores Bill Sullivan
(Purchases, stocks, and dispenses a variety of maintenance, reoair and 
operational sunplies and parts)
Director Dave Ginevan
(Coordinates budget and policy decisions for Housing,
Food Services, Book Store, and Office Services)
bdedaIr
S E RVI CES
Housing 
Food Services
Book Store
Bill Dillon 
Dave Allison 
Charles Floyd
Office Services Tim Basinski
(In-plant printing, copying, duplicating, mailing, 
and related services to camnus community)
266
354
806
226
223
124
651
653
221
208
Security Ron Taylor
(Protection of life and property through police, fire, and ambulance 
coordination; handling lost and found)
Personnel
2d1dIa9M
and
EDUCATIONAL
SERVICES
Jim Booton
Pi rector John McGovern
"TAdministrati on of Teachino Aids Center, Instructional 
Television, Telephone Systems, Post Office Services 
and Research Services)
Teaching Aids Center Carmen Gonot
(Provides audio-visual equinment and instruction in use 
to campus community at modest cost)
Instructional TV Joe Colaizzi
(Developing instructional television department and shows 
to be used as instructional aids; videotape equinment rental)
Telephone Systems Nancy Kazmerski
Research Services Gerry Carlson
(Coordinates nersonnel, facilities, and equinment to assist 
in research oroiects and perform various technical services 
for the entire camnus)
666
354
7-234
480
179
606
7-569
Post OfficeCharles Viverette222
Comnutation CenterRonald Rutledge
Physical Plant Services Roger Schmidt
(Repair, construction, and renovation of all camnus buildings excent 
Ski bo and dormitories)
Building Services Bob Lichy
(Expedition of all work on camnus buildings and grounds)
178
678
677
DR. RUTLEDGE, CHIEF OFFICER, DESCRIBES THE ORGANIZATION AS A DYNAMIC THING "WHICH SERVES TO OPTIMIZE INTERPERSONAL 
RELATIONSHIPS WITH RESPECT TO THE ORGANIZATIONAL GOAL. IT CHANGES WITH TIME, EVEN WITHOUT PERSONNEL CHANGES. EACH 
POSITION DEPENDS UPON THE PERSON IN IT AND THE OTHERS AROUND HIM, AND RECOGNIZES EVERYONE AS A UNIQUE INDIVIDUAL."
i Any questions, comments, or requests concerning services offered by the^ 
Operations Division should be directed to Frank Coloslmo at ext. 806.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, November 21, 1972
Gridders Down Hiram in FinaleSkaters Crack The Rock
The Tartan defense, led by seniors Art 
Hunkele, John Sabol Ray Terza and Mike 
Stevens, played their usual stoich game Sat
urday, yeilding only 6 points to a big Hi
ram team, and the offense scored 19 to 
wrap up the football season at Hiram with 
a convincing 19-6 victory.
Everyone tried to get in the act, inclu
ding center George Pavlik, who rushed foi
5 yards on the last play of the game, much 
to everyones surprise. Spearchucker. 
known for his jester-like antics merely 
walked up to the line of scrimmage and 
instead of snapping the ball to Ronnie Shinault, picked up the ball and plowed up / 
the middle. It was rumored that George 
Allen offered to place Larry Brown on 
waivers if Pavlik would sign with the Red
skins, but Pavlik refused to comment after 
the game.
Chuck Radic also had one of the best 
games of his career, scoring one touchdown 
and accounting for 3 of the 4 Tartan inter-# 
ceptions. Senior Chris OLeary, second 
leading scorer in the PAC closed his career 
with one more TD, with Shinault adding
the other score as the Tartans closed their 
first year in the PAC with a 4-3 league 
record and a 4-5 record overall.
The defense was on the run almost im
mediately, when Hiram took the opening 
kickoff and marched to the CMU 3 yard 
line. However, on fourth down, a Terrier
pass was broken up in the endzone, and the 
Tartans took over.
In the second quarter, The RedD 
picked up a fumble at the Hiram 41 yard 
line. Shinault to OLeary aerials moved the 
ball to the 16 yard line where Shinault 
streaked for the score on a sneak. Chuck 
Price added the extra point and the Tartans 
were ahead to stav, 7-0.The Terriers came right back however, 
scoring on a one yard plunge to cut the 
lead to 7-6, but CMU countered their score 
with one of their own. This time two key 
receptions by Dandy Dan Maletic, along 
with aggressive blocking by Brian Carlock 
set up Chris 0Learys 4 yard TD scamper. 
The point was missed, and the score stood 
at 13-6 at halftime.
The third quarter saw both offenses get
ting bogged down in the field, which was 
not unlike a cesspool. Finally, with 8 min
utes left in the game, CMU started its last 
drive of the season. Two key third down 
catches by Carlcok kept the team going, 
and Radic plowed over for the score from 
the 3. At the gun, the scoreboard read 
CMU19-Hiram6.
It was good to close the season on a 
happy note; these years team saw three 
PAC games slip away from them by a total 
of 12 points. Everyone played with desire 
and overall, it was a very satisfying year. 
Next game is at Oberlin, in September, 
1973
Wrestlers Needed
The Tartan Wrestling Team, headed by 
Coach Paul Steva, has been plagued by a 
rash of injuries since practice opened on 
November 1. In addition, several athletes 
were forced to drop wrestling for the 
balance of the semester due to academic 
pressures. As a result, the squad is having 
manpowere problems and is currently 
looking for additional members.
Anyone still interested in varsity 
wrestling should see Coach Steva in the 
Gym, Rooms 102 or 204 any afternoon 
this week or next. The team still anticipates marked improvement over last years 
record, but Coach Steva cites the lack of 
numbers as a detriment to improvement. 
Most wrestlers do not have someone in 
their own weight class to practice with and 
as of yet the 126, 150, 158, 190, and 
Unlimited classes are still open.
Anyone interested, regardless of experi
ence, should contact Coach Steva as soon 
as possible, and anyone with good wrest
ling experience should stop by to discuss 
continuation of his career. The season 
opener is at Pitt on December 5 against 
their B Team.
Squash Anyone?
IM'S HAS IT
For those of you who dont know any
thing about the game of squash, just 
imagine playing handball using a badmin
ton racket and a rather dead ball, and 
you in essence have squash.
The I.M. Squash season opened Novem
ber 6th with a rather small league of only 
four teams, and with each team having 
played four matches, the standings are: 
Physics 4-0 
Moonlighters 3-1 
Lemons 1-3 
Zuchini 0-4
The Moonlighters, on which Javed 
Khanh (of Varsity Tennis fame) plays num
ber 1 man, was favored to take the cham
pionship. In the Physics-Moonlighters 
match, however, Khanh was beaten by 
Rich Lipes of Physics, the team which as a 
result won the match. It remains to be 
seen, however, whether Physics will beat 
Moonlighters in their next encounter, 
which will be after Thanksgiving.
After the team season is over, Commis
sioner Conrad Wall hopes to establish a 
singles ladder during the winter. Any
player interested in getting on the ladder 
should contact him at 422-7120.
INTRAMURAL BOWLING STANDINGS 
as of November 11, 1972
Strike League
1. Old Men (10-2)
2. 4E-Happy Jacks (5-3)
3. Sigma Nu (5-7)
4. Kappa Sigma (4-8)
4. SAE-B (4-8)
6. The House (0-4)
Spare League
1. SAE-A (9-3)
2. DTD (8-4)
3. Stone Rangers (7-1)
4. TDP (7-5)
5. The Taxi (4-4)
6. SAE-Un (1-11)
7. Mystery Team (0-8)
All Hockey Photos by Henry Collins 
Jim Powers(6) prepares to unleash a vicious shot on 
goal in the Slippery Rock game last Tuesday.
by David Girdany
The Carnegie-Mellon hockey team con
tinued its winning ways Tuesday night, 
November 14, with an easy 14 to 2 
truimph over a game, but definitely over
matched, Slippery Rock team.
As against Duquesne, the Tartans began 
slowly, having trouble getting the puck out 
of their zone in the first minutes of the 
game. Once they got going, however, there 
was no doubt about which team would 
win. All that remained to be decided was 
the final score. Again, just as in the first 
game, Mike Gallaway, Johnny Hauser, and 
Jim Powers each scored two goals. Mike 
Kenworthy broke his scoring slump by also 
adding a pair of goals. But the leading 
goal-scorer in this game was Rich Eastman, 
who got the hat trick by firing three goals 
past the Slippery Rock goal tender.
The Tartans defense still do not look 
up to par, as it seemed that the Slippery 
Rock skaters were more responsible for 
missing their good chances than the Tar
tans were for breaking up those chances. 
Whenever Slippery Rock did break through 
CMU, though, goalie Jeff Hart was equal to 
the task, shutting out the opponents for 
two full periods. Frank Scuilli was in goal 
for the last period and could not be blamed 
for the two goals that got by him.
The surprise story of the game, though,
was tfte play of the Slippery Rock goalie, 
Unable to skate, he never strayed from the 
confines of his own net. Apparently ignor
ant of how to play goal, he dropped his 
goalie stick on almost every save he made 
and he was often out of position. In spite 
of this, he made several spectacular saves 
that left the Tartans wondering.
In summary, CMU played another good 
hockey game but still has not reached its 
potential. When this happens, watch out 
Pitt!
Socring Summary: Period 1: (1) CMUPichai (Farman, Molnar) (2) CMU-Eastman 
(Powers, Molnar) (3) CMU-Eastman (Mol
nar) (4) CMUJacobs (Molnar, Powers)
Period 2: (5) CMU-Gallaway (Hauser, 
Kenworthy) (6) CMU-Hauser (Kenworthy, 
Leff) (7) CMU-Powers (Farman, Eastman) 
(8) CMU-Eastman (Powers, Jacobs) (9) 
CMU-Hauser (Eastman, Powers)
Period 3: (10) CMU-Kenworthy (un
assisted) (11) CMU-Gallaway (unassisted) 
(12) CMU-Kenworthy (unassisted) (13). 
Slip. Rock-Eckert (unassisted) (14) CMUFraman (Pichai) (15) SR-Eckert (Gilbert. 
Fachoir) (16) CMU-Powers (Farman)
Period 3: (10) CMU-Kenworthy (una
ssisted) (11) CMU-Gallaway (unassisted) 
(12) CMU-Kenworthy (unassisted) (13) 
Slip. Rock-Eckert (unassisted) (14) CMUFarman (Pichai) (15) SR-Eckert (Gilbert, 
Fachoir) (16) CMU-Powers (Farman)
