Lacks Candidates
The Presidents Mansion.
_______________________photo by Elliot Popowitz
C-MU Property 
Up For Sale
by John Craun
|j
Efforts are currently underway to sell 
the Presidents mansion and the Flinn 
house as part of C-MUs program of dis
posing of property not of immediate use to 
the university and not adjacent to the 
campus.
The Presidents mansion, located on 
Devon Road, has been on the market for 
about the past year. It is appraised at 
$115,000 and there have been quite a few 
offers, none of which have yet resulted in a 
sale.
The house was occupied by President 
Stever during his administration but has 
been vacant since President Cyert took of
fice. It is located in a residentially zoned 
area, which eliminates any use other than 
5 single family dwelling. The university feels 
it must either sell or lease the house, since 
maintenance costs prohibit its sitting there 
empty until the next President comes along 
and decides whether or not he wants to live 
there.
Although Flinn house has not yet been 
placed cn the market there have been of
fers to buy it. An offer is currently being 
j given serious consideration by President 
Cyert.
Flinn house was used for the offices of 
the physical plant until May 1973. It has 
been vacant since then, and with the col
lapse of plans to use for a women convicts 
rehabilitation center the university has de
cided to try to sell or lease it. As with the 
Presidents mansion, residential zoning rest- v ricts possible uses of the house.
The universitys policy of disposing of 
non-adjacent and non-useful property has 
been effect for the past three or four years. 
During that time about fifty pieces of 
property have been sold or leased. Most of 
it is located in the Oakland area im
mediately surrounding Mellon Institute and 
the C-MU campus, 
k Last winter, as part of that policy* 
C-MU leased a piece of land located on the 
east side of Craig Street near the Mellon 
Institute. The lease will bring the university 
$75,000 to $100,000 a year. The buyer 
supposedly has plans to erect an apart 
ment-hotel-parking complex on the site.
Election
by Steven Correll
The polls will open for Student 
Government elections a week from today, 
but there may not be many candidates on 
the ballot.
Write-in Voting Permitted
With the official deadline for submitting 
nominating petitions past, there are twice as 
many seats to be filled as candidates to fill 
them. Only 16 candidates submitted 
petitions by the deadline. Senate Rules 
Committee Chairman Dave Meixner says he 
will accept late petitions through 
Wednesday, November 7.
The situation was similar last March in 
the previous Student Government election, 
when 14 candidates nominated themselves 
for 31 seats. If the pattern of that election 
repeats itself, all of the sixteen nominees 
are certain of winning election, and some 
write-in candidates who receive fewer than 
10 votes will also win seats.
In 4he voting next Tuesday, November
by Kevin l urcotte
The Program on Human Sexuality has 
begun at CMU and, it is hoped, is here to 
stay. It was first looked into in 1971 dur
ing President Stevers administration. The 
recommendations of the committee on the 
Status and Needs of Women at CMU finally 
materialized into this service.
The program, designed for men and 
women, has three parts. They are Health 
Services, Counseling and Education.
The Heatlh Services portion offers gyne
cological exams, pap smears, lab tests and 
prescriptions for Birth Control. The ser
vice, available to all female CMU students, 
is booked for examinations until midNovember. They dont have a similar pro13 and Wednesday, November 14, students 
will choose 32 Senators to represent 5 
constituencies, or categories based on 
residence. Each student may vote only for 
the representatives from his constituency, 
but all constituencies except one will choose 
representatives in this election.
About half of the 32 Senatorsthose in 
each constituency who win the most 
votes-will serve full year terms. The rest 
will get half terms and must stand for 
reelection in the Spring. The newly elected 
Senators will join 15 current Senators 
whose terms do not expire until Spring.
To cast his ballot, a student simply 
brings his university ID card to the proper 
polling place any time between 9 a.m. and
5 p.m. on either of the election days. But 
first he must understand which polling 
place to go to and which constituency to 
vote in.
Which constituency a student voter 
belongs to depends partly on where he lives 
and partly on which groups he belongs to. 
A student should vote in the 'first
gram for males but prophylactics are 
available in the Morewood Drugstore.
Counseling is available by appointment. 
Interested individuals can contact the 
Counseling Center in Baker Hall. The Peer 
Halp Center also offers counseling and help 
in matters concerning sex; various chap
lains are available as well.
The education part of the program has 
met with the most success. Offered on 
Wednesday nights at 8:00 in Breed Hall, 
three of the six lectures have been given to 
full audiences.
The first lecture, on the subject of Re
production and Pregnancy, was presfnted 
by Marilyn Goldsmith. She included a 
short film on the experience of childbiftn.
continued on page 12
applicable category in the following list: 
Graduate student, Fraternity member, 
Resident of Mens Dormitory, Resident ofv 
Womens Dormitory, Commuter. Thus a 
fraternity member who lives in a dormitory 
would vote in the Fraternity constituency, 
and a graduate student who commutes 
from a residence off campus would vote in 
the Graduate constituency. Students who 
do not belong in any of the categories 
listedCo-op members are an exampleare 
assigned to the Independent Undergraduate 
Resident constituency. They will not vote 
in this election because their sole represent
ative does not have to stand for reelection 
until next spring.
Which polling place a student should go 
to depends on his academic major. CFA 
majors will vote in the Fine Arts lobby. 
Engineering and Science majors will vote in 
Doherty Hall near the front entrance. 
H&SS majors will vote in Baker Hall near 
the spiral staircase. Election Supervisors 
will be on hand at any polling place to 
advise students where to vote.
Senate Funds 
Scholarships 
For Day Care
by Gary Jay Bronheim
Users of the C-MU Child Care Center 
can thank Student Senate for financing a 
S2000 scholarship program that will help 
cushion the cost of day care.
Senate approval of the program 
followed the withdrawal of university sup
port for the child care center. The center is 
raising its tuition, and Director Mary Irwin 
approached Senate for help.
Ms. Irwin first spoke with Student 
Senate Chairman Frank Sacco, and asked 
Senate to allocate an amount of money to 
be used as a scholarship fund, independent 
of the Financial Aid office. This money 
would be given to students for use in their 
choice of any licensed Pittsburgh area child 
care center. At a Student Senate meeting, 
Steve Lee introduced a motion providing 
$2000. He argued for immediate passage of 
the motion, but it was tabled to the 
finance committee and the matter was 
tackled there. Finance voted to grant the 
scholarship fund.
The Senate eventually approved the 
finance committee's action by a 7-6-5 vote.
Continued on page 7
111 tartan
Mnuamtiar 1 Q7Q \/nllimoNovember 6, 1973 Volume 74 Issue 7
President Cyert displays the CMU flag that alumnus Edgar 
Mitchell carried to the moon.
Photo by John Rose
Human Sexuality
Planetary Citizen At Homecoming See Pg. 9

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2THE TARTAN-Tuesday, November 6, 1973
EDITORS MOTE
The day of publication of this newspaper is election day. In the 
Pittsburgh area, election day is not a particularly exciting event this year. 
Since Pete Flaherty won the nomination of all three parties for mayor this 
spring, his victory today is assured. The only races that are stirring up any 
interest in the area are the judgeship races, where there is a candidate who 
has a direct connection to C-MU.
John Flaherty was a very popular part-time professor of law here 
until quite recently, and has worked long and hard on such studentoriented projects as the creation of the Student Government Corporation 
and the granting of an FM license to WRCT. He is one of the ten 
democratic nominees in the judgeship race.
As far as his service to students, and fairness in dealing with the legal 
issues that most concern the university community, he is far and away the 
best candidate, regardless of What any Bar Association poll might say. 
C-MU students registered in the Pittsburgh area shouldnt forget this when 
they go to the polls today.
The problem of whether or not to allow the use of electronic 
calculators during exams in CIT and MIS raises some interesting questions.
In a professionally-oriented school, how do you justify banning a 
tool that is widely used by professionals? At the same time, how can you 
let students who can afford these expensive instruments have an advantage 
over those who cant afford them? Should tests and assignments 
emphasize abstract concepts or should they include the kind of number 
crunching that gives some students an edge over others, depending on the 
kind of calculator they own?
Is the common use of expensive electronic calculating tools as a 
necessary tool in industry going to make standard undergraduate 
university engineering education obsolete some day?
An explanation of last weeks misquote.
Last weeks editorial quotes President Nixon during his nationally 
televised press conference as saying, in reference to the news media, that 
They dont anger me. / only say that because / respect them.
/ have since been told quite vehemently that this quote is not only 
incorrect, it is the exact opposite of what he meant to say. His exact 
words, according to the New York Post, were something like, Dontget 
the impression that Im angry, (pause) You see, one can only be angry 
with those he respects. 
My first interpretation of this statement was based on the 
assumption that Nixons first sentence was said with his tongue-in-cheek, 
and his pause was to emphasize the fact that he really was angry. Given 
the assumption that he is angry, the only conclusion that can be drawn 
from his actual words is that he respects the news media. This, of course, 
is ridiculous and incorrect. And shocking. What / should have realized is 
that Richard Nixon doesnt have enough style or class to give a tonguein-cheek answer at a press conference, to make fun of his own feelings. 
Heres why I got that impression:
In the J. Harris Grill, Nixons press conference produced a violent 
debate. Nick, the Greek bartender with black slicked-back hair, shook his 
fist and screamed scatologically that Nixon was no good because he was 
supplying the Jews in the Middle East war. An older man, sitting next to 
me, screamed just as loudly and graphically that Nixon was the president, 
that he should be respected, and that he didnt want to see Jews take over 
the government. Hitler wasnt all that bad, he said.
The man stopped talking when / told him that Henry Kissinger was 
Jewish. But after that, the nuances of the show were lost to me. In the 
context of the dark atmosphere of the J. Harris Grill, the loud perversity 
of the argument, the implications that their argument has for the way 
Americans see things, and the general perversity of the whole week, what 
assumption could be made about what Nixon said but the most ridiculous 
one?
Steve Saunders 
Editor-in-Chief
Thhedhayd ohTffp
Letters:
Editor:
I had friends visiting me this past
weekend and as I was showing them 
around the academic buildings, particularly 
Porter Hall 100, one of my friends who 
attends another major University 
commented on how disgustingly dirty the 
building was. This has been a long time 
gripe of the teaching staff of this university 
and I feel it is a justified complaint. It is 
very hard to find a desk drawer which is 
not filled with ashes, a wall in a science hall 
classroom that is marred by eraser marks 
on the wall, or any room anywhere in any 
academic building with a clean floor.
This week-end was homecoming and 
many previous C-MU (Carnegie Tech) 
students returned to their alma mater. Dr. 
Cyert and others have consistently stressed 
the importance of Alumni gifts to the 
school in order to insure a a balanced 
budget. I would recommend that no one 
give their money to this school until the 
university can demonstrate that it can 
properly take care of the existing physical 
plant. There is no reason why I should pay 
$4000 a year to learn in dirt and grime.G. Sij.Class of 76
Five years ago, I applied for 
a position with a large manu
facturing firm. I was turned 
down for lack of qualifications; 
yesterday, in the true spirit 
of the movement, I applied for
the very sane position.........
and guess whatII?
I was turned down for lack of 
qualif ications.
tartan
^ -*- - ta , a?, .a IP |jEf Administrativ caitof
Christine lutante
New* Editor . . . . ,
Features Editor . . .
Head Reporter . . . .
Editor in Chief
Steve Saunders
Managing Editor
Gary Singer
. . Steve Correli 
. Shelley Burhans
. . Debbie Siegel
Entertainment Editor 
Events .......................
Business Managtr
Dywane Smalls
, Susan N. Klein 
. . . . Jay Cohen
News and Features Staff........................
Ron Smith , Michael Baum 
Bill Bromiey, Gary Bronheim 
Steve Calhoun, Sandy Como 
John Craun, Sharon Curcio 
Thomas Kendig, Chris Kisk addon 
Tom Lang, Amy Reitmeyer 
James Russell, Barbara Shumovich 
Rob Simbeck, Kate Stain ton 
Kevin Turcotte, LoisWholey 
Chip Yeager
Photography Editors . . . Elliot Arons
Ed Levine
Photography Staff . . . Bruce Edelston 
Ellen Eddy, Chris Forland 
Nick Lardas, Elliot Popowitz 
Ric Werme Rod Reilly, John R. Rose 
Frederick A. Shamlian, John Shettel 
Courtney Larson ,0ryan Smith, Frank Stein
Entertainment Staff . . Terry Caywood 
Craig Collins, Nome Dempsey 
Arnie Karr, Stacey Robin Kimbell 
Debbie Weiss, Hijnk Levy, Sharon Neustem 
Steve Perkins, Cyndy Schmidt 
Mark Evan Chimsky/Doug Stone 
George Bias
Sports Editor .......................Jeff Engl und
Sports Staff ...... Glenn Campbell
Ken Kloes, Leslie Allen 
Mary Chabala, Jim Litsas 
Mike Pochan, Mark Schiff man
Advertising Manager.Lester Nathan
Layout Staff...................Arlene Berkowitz
Catherine Kinneavy, Louise LoPinto 
Anne Golden
0fv .................................Mina Gerail
Sndy Preuhs, Cyndy Schmidt
........ Hon Wiggins
hublb ictt nb sw cr.IlPswP 
g,tt xPsgg rbbPcwv Iw 
SbFwbxFsmj dICbrnbl - 
sP MpUJ .qrq sP Pub Iggckb 
Gtbsxb sPPbwFq
The Editorial Board, of the tARTAN reserves the right to edit or withhold any copy that it 
considers unfit for publication. Published every Tuesday during the academic year by the student 
government of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Deadlines are 12 noon 
for announcements, classified ads and letters to the editor and 5:00 p.m. for articles and display 
ads on the Wednesday preceding the Tuesday of publication. Editorial and Business offices are 
located in Skibo 50. Telephone (412) 682-4557 or campus extension 656.

---------------------------------------------------

NEWS COMMENT
tarngan7- Vt-g g272.______________
The president, vice-president, and all civil officers of the United States shall be removed from office on impeachment for, and conviction of, treason, 
bribery, or other high crimes and misdemeanors
       United States Constitution, Article II, Section 4.
It is our contention that one of the major duties of any conscientious 
newspaper, besides providing an honest, unbiased description and investi
gation of important events, is to be a watchdog of the public concern 
by fighting for what we consider to be actions in the publics interest. 
Thus, by carefully reviewing a situation and making a concerted editorial 
stand, the newspapers of this country can and should act as a strong force 
for legislative action.
Students have traditionally represented the more idealistic (some
times termed radical) element of society. It is their responsibility to 
initiate and work for the necessary changes that stagnant society would 
rather live with than bother to change. It is likewise a responsibility of the 
student newspapers to initiate, among the students, the necessary ideas for 
these changes.
The Amherst Student, the newspaper of Amherst College, has 
circulated approximately 200 copies of its National Impeachment Editor
ial to other college newspapers. Its purpose, as described in the cover 
letter accompanying the editorial, is to provide evidence, through the 
support of over one hundred college and university newspapers with a 
combined circulation approaching one million, of a national student 
consensus in favor of impeachment. It is hoped that through widespread 
publicity this support will encourage Congress to initiate impeachment 
proceedings. 
Although similar sentiments concerning the Presidency of Richard M. 
Nixon have already been expressed on the TARTAN editorial pages, we 
have decided to wholeheartedly support this National Impeachment 
Editorial in the hope that by contributing to a national student consensus 
our ideas will cause action.
The Carnegie-Mellon University TARTAN was the seventy-fourth 
college or University newspaper to support this editorial. It is hoped that 
the political events, the public press, and this large representation of the 
student press will cause the legislature to act. May the justice that Richard 
Nixon claims to represent prevail.
Gary Singer, Managing Editor 
Steve Saunders, Editor-in-Chief 
Chris Infante, Administrative Editor 
Steven CorreII, News Editor 
Shelley Burhans, Features Editor 
Debbie Siegel, Head Reporter 
Ed Levine, Photography Editor
Constitutional government in the United States may have been suspended at 8:00 
p.m. Saturday, October 20. Richard Nixon now rules by fiat and force. He is no longer 
a legitimate leader.
With callous disregard for his oath of office and the intents of Congress and the 
Judiciary, the President first refused to abide by a court order to produce Watergate 
documents. His later turnaround defused the immediate confrontation but can not 
obscure his repeated abuses of power. He then forced the resignation of the Attorney 
General and fired his Deputy and the Watergate Special Prosecutor when they refused 
to condone his conduct. Moreover, the President abolished the office of Special 
Prosecutor and dispatched the FBI to seal off its records. These decisive and unpre
cedented actions represent the tactics of a military coup. They are anathema to a 
rational democratic polity.
Even before these steps were taken, public confidence in the Nixon Admini
strations ability to govern was at one of its all-time lows. Now this support will 
deteriorate still further. The mandate of 1972 has been buried in a legacy of illegality, 
hypocrisy and deceit: San Clemente real estate deals, impoundment of Congressional 
appropriations, widespread wiretapping, covert Cambodian bombing, and all of the 
ramifications of the Watergate affair-Milk kickbacks, ITT. the Ellsberg burglary.
When elected officials violate the sacred trust placed in them by the people, the 
Constitution provides means for them to be impeached and, if convicted, removed 
from office. These procedures are very difficult to implement and are seldom used. 
But if ours were a parliamentary system of government, the Nixon Administration 
would have fallen months ago.
Mr. Nixon cloaks his actions in a veil of legality, but his record as President bares 
his intentions to foresake rule by law. The President must be impeached. While other 
judicial and legislative measures should be pursued, no amount of legal double-talk or 
political timidity can obscure this fact.
There is real question whether the Congress and the Judiciary can force Richard 
Nixon to deal with them within the confines of the law. But our actions, for the 
moment, must be based on this premise. Members of the academic community have a 
special responsibility. They must not simply react to the latest outrage. This serves Mr. 
Nixons purpose. Instead, they must articulate the fundamental principles which are at 
stake. They must impress upon Congressmen and other national leaders the gravity of 
the situation and their duties under the Constitution. Most importantly, they must 
communicate the strength of their convictions to the public-at-large and join with 
others in a nationwide struggle for the preservation of democratic rule.
The methods of response are numerous. Now more-than ever, we must write our 
Congressmen. The balance of mail over the next few weeks will be critical. Sustained 
public expressions of dissent--no matter what form they take--are equally important. A 
massive national student effort is essential.
The weeks ahead could represent either the redemption of American democracy 
or the prologue to its collapse. We remain silent at our own peril.
Homeward Bound
For the first time in years, homecoming worked. For two days, this place 
almost looked like a real university.
The alumni loved it. They were delighted with the pipers in Skibo lobby 
(even though they werent C-MUs own Kiltie pipers) and they loved the 
marching band at ha If time (even though it wasnt the C-MU Keltie Marching 
Band, which was the victim a while back of a budget cut coupled with disgust 
among the music students) and they were enraptured with the marvelous C-MU 
jazzband (even though students took all the best seats).
The alumni left some memories with us. A dog wearing a nametag that said 
Luke '77" wandered around Skibo searchinglike most of the alumsfor 
booze. An alu vnus of 1933 with a big potbelly told our administrative editor 
of his days as general circulation manager of the TARTAN back when we had 
a real newspaper.  A woman alumnus in the stands at the game asked me about 
the band and, learning that it came from a high-school, said This is the 
stupidest goddamned college. 
Hopefully, the alumni left some money behind, too.
But in any case, it was a good homecoming. The committee that planned the 
student part of the festivities (Ira Picker, John Sisson, and Scott Moon) deserve 
our thanks, and so does Student Senate, which paid the bill. After all someof(jotnouan
NA TIONA L IMPEA CHMENT EDITORIA L
As of Sund?y, November 4, seventy- four University and College Newspapers 
gave their support to the above editorial. A small selective sampling of these 
supporting newspapers are:
Amherst Student Daily Princetonian The Dartmouth 
Duke Chronicle
Chicago Maroon (University of Chicago)
Iowa State Daily
Michigan Daily (University of Michigan)MIT TECH 
Stanford DailyCampus Times (University of Rochester)
Vassar MiscellanyStudent Life (Washington University in St. Louis)
Wesleyan Argus
Wisconsin Daily Cardinal (University of Wisconsin, Madison)
Yale Daily News DaihSun
Columbia Dailv Spectator
Minne<

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4H TARTAN-Tuesday, November 6,1973,7 /SA7 i * 7 7 HT
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Films made by college students within the
curricular structure are eligible for prizes 
and theatrical distribution in a national 
contest sponsored by the Academy of Mo
tion Picture Arts and Sciences in 
Hollywood.
An Award of Merit will be given in 
recognition of the best student made film 
completed after October 15, 1972, in each 
of four classifications: Dramatic,' Ani
mated, Documentary, Experimental (free 
form, non-narrative, etc.). Films of any 
length in 16,35 or 70 mm. may be submit-, 
ted to the Middle Atlantic Film Board, 
2340 Perot Street, Philadelphia, Pa. for 
consideration, and must be insured, with 
return postage provided.
In both preliminary and final voting, the 
excellence of the entries will be judged on 
the basis of entertainment, originality and 
production quality, without regard to cost 
of production of subject matter. Final 
judging by the Academy and announce
ment of winners will take place by midDecember, 1973. Entry blanks may be ob
tained by contacting Middle Atlantic Film 
Board, 2340 Perot Street, Philadelphia, Pa. 
(215-978-4702).
Under the artistic direction of John
Houseman, City Center Acting Company 
will perform Gay's Beggars Opera and 
Shakespeare's Measure for Measure on No
vember 13 and 14 at Washington and Jef
ferson College. Clive Barnes of the Ateur York times Has called the 'Julliard* 
Schooled company "the finest repertory*, 
group in New York City. Performed as 
the first musical comedy on the Englishspeaking stage, Beggars Opera will prove to 
be a strange as well as a glorious evening of 
theatre. Housemans direction of Measure for Measure one of Shakespeare's least per
formed plays, is unique and pleasingly ir
reverent. Both performances are at 8:00 
pm. and tickets are available at all Ticketron outlets and the Student Gov
ernment Office of W&J College. All tickets 
are $2.50.
speakers, biamped, cost $1200 pair, sell 
$600; Marantz 7T Preamp, 2 Marantz 15. 
amps, McIntosh MR71 tuner, dual T229 T 
w/base and D.C., Ortofon SL 15, Shure 
M91Ed cartridges, Barzilay design IE 
cabinet. Call 422-9485.
A Bagel and Lox Brunch at Chatham
College will be held Sunday, November 11 
at 11 am. in the Chatham College Chapel 
Lounge. Professor Vivien Richman, Chat
ham College, will speak on "Education 
Today." Cost is $1.00 and is sponsored by 
B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish University 
Center.
Expensive Stereo: Kenwood KA-7002
amplifier. List $339, sale $210; Empire 
598 turntable with 1000ZEIX Cartridge, 
List $350, Sale $220; JBL L-100 monitor 
speakers. List $273 each, sale $170 each. 
Randy Currin, B-108 Mudge, 682-3442.
Israeli and Folk Dancing is held every
Monday evening at 7:30 pm. in the 3rd 
floor Hillel Lounge, Y-IKC. It is sponsored 
by B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish University 
Center.
Senior Portraits for the yearbook. The
Thistle, will be taken between Monday, 
November 12 and Thursday, November 15. 
There is no sitting fee, no dress code, and 
no obligation. Sign up now at Skibo 
Information desk. All seniors who have 
their portraits taken will be allowed $1.50 
off the price of the yearbook, which will 
be out in May. Yearbooks are on sale 
(advance) now in Baker Hall for $10.50 
($9.00 if getting picture). All that is 
necessary now is a $5.00 deposit. Only 600 
copies available!
Any student interested in a workshop to
translate into English a short story 
originally published in France (about the 
"French" Foreign Legion in Indochina-all 
that army slang) please contact Professor 
Michel Fougeres at the Department of 
Modern Languages and Literature, Baker 
Hall. Number of units: probably 6 or 9. 
One meeting a week. Five or six partici
pants in the workshop are a maximum. 
Dividends will be split among the 
participants if the story can be sold to an 
American publisher.
Any sophomore or junior interested in
studying one or two semesters in Paris, for 
CMU credit, should contact Professor 
Michel Fougeres at the Department of 
Modern Languages and Literature.
.  i n, asm/ I  
The Pittsburgh Filmmakers Co-operative
will hold its annual open screening, at 6118 
Penn Circle South on November 9, 1973. 
Pittsburgh area filmmakers are invited to 
bring their work for screening and dis
cussion. 16mm, 8mm and super 8 are all 
acceptable, with or without sound. The 
general public is invited; admission is free.
Filmmakers who intend to bring their 
work are requested to advise the center 
(362-5449) so that they may be scheduled 
into the program.
A CMU Faculty Student Sabbath will be
held on Friday, November 9. Worship will 
be at 6:30 pm. in Room 39. Skibo Chapel. 
Dinner is at 7:15 pm. in the Skibo Faculty 
Dining Room. (Call 621-8875 for dinner 
reservations by November 7, $2.75). Pro
fessor Alvin Weinstein, Mech. Eng. will 
speak on "Ethics in Products Liability." It 
is sponsored by B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish 
University Center.
Corned Beef and Pastrami Sandwiches are
served every Thursday at Cafe Tel Aviv, 
3rd floor Hillel dining room,Y-IKC , 315 S. 
Beliefield. Lunch is served 11:30 through 1 
pm. Monday-Thursday and is sponsored by 
B'nai B'rith Hiliel-Jewish University 
Center.
Any Water Safety Instructors that would
be interested in helping teach a beginners 
course to Boy Scouts, please send your 
name and mailing address to: Alpha Phi 
Omega, Box 100, through campus mail. 
This course will be taught during the 
second semester, Saturday mornings, 
excluding holidays, in the CMU pool.
The Commuter meeting scheduled for
October 30, 1973 has been postponed due 
to the large amount of material submitted 
for consideration, and to printing delays. 
The meeting will be rescheduled, and the 
deadline for submitting petitions will also 
be postponed. All those wishing to run for 
commuter council now have until 
November 14 to submit petitions.
Coffeehouse, "The Tenth Muse", the A.B.
coffeehouse, presents Pau) Langille, folkrock artist from Canada, for three special 
coffeehouses: November 8, 9, 10. The 
show is free Thursday in the Wherrett 
Room; Friday and Saturday admission is 
50 cents and it will be in the Kiltie Coffee
house. Open to the campus community.
Nathan Davis and the Pitt Jazz Ensemble
will give a benefit concert for the U. of 
Pittsburgh YMCA on Friday, November 9 
at Carnegie Lecture Hall. Tickets are $2.50 
at the Skibo information Desk.
Morewood Children's center, enrollment
open mornings, afternoons and full time 
program. Openings available now. For 
more information call 621-7446.
Anyone interested in playing Lacrosse
contact Fred Cohen Monday-Thursday 6-8 
pm. 683-0236, Bob Kimicata 421-8174 or 
leave a message at Skibo. Look in the 
TARTAN and listen to WRCT for further 
announcements.
A Jewish Philosophy Series, sponsored by
B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish University 
Center, is held every Sunday at 7:30 pm. in 
the Hillel Lounge, 3rd floor, Y-IKC on 
Belief ield Ave. On November 11 Jonathan 
Broido, Dept, of Philosophy, Pitt, will 
speak on "Is God Relevant to Human 
Morality?"
1 avsy I >#!
fraternities. Call 682-9580, ask for Sue or 
Bill.
M Speed bttee tor ante. CCM Permute 1,
Men's frame, green, 22%" frame, Reynold 
531 frame. Air conditioned. Call 421-58iT6.
CLASS* ADC
BLAZERS, JACKETS. TROUSERS
Wholesale prices to clubs, teams and frater
nities. Specialty Clothing Company, 1023 
5th Avenue,' near Chatham Center. 
341-1288.
Females: Nude photographic modeling.
$5-7 hourly. Reply: Image Creators, P.O. 
Sox 13200, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15243.
Tutor wanted $5/hr. for person capable in
basic structural design course in civil en
gineering. Call 341-4666, ask for John L. 
(from 9-5).

Telephone Solicitor: pvt time-full time
work. For aggressive, ambitious person 
with gift of gab. Call Prudential Products. 
Inc. 521-7395.
PRSOMALS
Anna: A Relationship in Three Acts
Act I:
(Great Neck, NY)
C: Howdy, baby, what's your name?
A: Is that a thing to say?
Just because you're a rock and roll star, 
Here from Pitts, Pa. '
Act II
(Columbus, Ohio)
A: I see you are persistent kid.
It seems you're still around. )
C: I'll follow you forever, love 
At least I'm physically sound.
Act III
(Pittsburgh, Pa.)
C: I'm oh so glad it's working out 
You know my love is true.
What in the world would please you 
dear?
A: Position 42.
Carl
Te Waller P.P.,
Roses are red,
Violets are blue.
You peck me and I'll peck you.
Love,
Clarence.
BNAI BRITH HILLELJEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
New Hillel Happening:
CMU FACULTY-STUDENTSABBATH
Friday, November 9 (SEE OTHER ADD IN PAPER
BAGEL and LOX BRUNCH at Chatham
Sunday, November 11 11:00 a.m.
Speaker: Professor Vivien Richman 
Topic: "Education Today"
Location: Chatham College Chapel Lounge
JEWISH PHILOSOPHY SERIES
Speaker: Jonathan Broido, U. of Pittsburgh 
Topic: (Nov. 11) "Is God Relevant to Human Morality?"
Location: Hillel Lounge, 3rd floor Y-IKC
315 S. BELLEFIELD AVENUE (ACROSS FROM HEINZ CHAPEL) 
621-8875

---------------------------------------------------

Vsb*l>TMll Pag 9FT c
THE TARTANTuesday, November 6, 1973Page 5
The Candidates Speak
Ed Abramson
1) To work and vote in Senate as the 
majority of his constituency would do if 
they were senators.
2) a. A graduated rate charged for check 
cashing as opposed to a flat rate.
b. To convince a few fellow senators to 
refrain from bringing up stupid-assed mo
tions, that only waste valuable time and 
give Senate the bad reputation it now has.
Steve Clark
1 have never regarded Senate as a very 
effective body. For the Senate as a whole 
this year, its main concern should be with 
the proposed updating of the Constitution 
by Rules Committee. A number of things 
could be changed to increase Senates 
efficiency (such as reducing its size to a 
more workable level).
But the business of individual Senators 
has always been in work done on 
Committees. This year the General Campus 
Committee is trying to get the Thistle 
re-started, and Senate may be going out on 
a limb to do it. I dont see this as a priority 
of Senate alone, because it will need a good 
bit of support from the entire student 
body. So get in touch with Senate; we need 
useful input on this and a lot of things now 
(more than ever!).
Steve Lee
1) Each Senator has an obligation to 
attend and participate actively in the bi
weekly Student Senate meetings. He 
should use his best judgement to vote on 
all issues that come before Senate. In 
addition, a Senator should take an active 
part in one of the five Senate committees, 
since this is where the bulk of the work is 
accomplished.
2) As a member of the General Campus 
Committee I have worked mainly on pro
posals to improve campus life. CMU has 
been without a real yearbook since 1968.
V With student support, we will have one this 
year. The high cost of day care puts a real 
burden on students with children. Day care 
scholarship aid will soon be available from 
Student Senate for such students. The 
Tartan Grill serves students, so were 
working on getting student input for the 
Grill renovation/remodeling plans. These 
are the kinds of things 1 will continue to 
work on in Senate.
The TARTAN invited officially nominated Student Senate candidates to reply to the following questions. We hope their replies will help voters in making their 
choices.1) What do you feel are the obligations of a Student Senator?2) What problems will you work to solve if elected? Please indicate your order of
priorities.Polls are open from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on November 13 and November 14. Ask a poll attendant if you need help determining which polling place to go to or which constituency to vote in. Write-in voting is permitted. In the voter's guide on this page, an (i) indicates an incumbent. Numbers in parentheses indicate the number of full and half term seats open in each constituency: the sum of the two numbers in parentheses is the number of candidates you are entitled to vote for.
GRADUATEMENS DORM COUNCIL
(6 full, 6 half)(5 full, 4 half)
David V. GroupeStephen 0. Lee (i)
no reply receivedLew Modic 
Ronald L. Smith
FRATERNITYno reply received 
Keith J. McDonald
(2 full, 1 half)no reply received
Gary J. Truxton
Dave Meixner OJ 
Brad Whiteheadno reply received
no reply receivedCOMMUTERSFrank Sacco (i)no reply received(5 full, 4 half)
WOMENS DORM COUNCILLeslie J. Toth (i)no reply received
(2 full, 1 half)Edward Levine (i) 
Robert E. Hanna
Suzy Duffyno reply receivedno reply receivedSteve Clark (i)
Eve Baygellno reply received
Ed Abramson (i)
Dave Meixner
1) The main obligation of a Senator is 
to vote for his constituents in a way that is 
compatible with both the Senator and the 
people he represents. A Senator should be 
willing to listen to the facts of each issue as 
presented before he votes. If there is not 
enough information about an issue a Sena
tor should be willing to compile the opin
ions of his constituents so that his vote will 
reflect the views of the electorate.
2)If re-elected I will continue my work 
on revising or rewriting the Student Gov
ernment Constitution so that it will work 
for rather than against us. I will attempt to 
maintain my seat as Rules Committee 
chairman where my work has been most 
useful.
Lew Modic
1) A student Senator, or any type of 
Senator, is obligated to represent the mem
bers of his constituency and look out for 
their best interests and the best interests of 
the body his constituency is part of. He 
should be open to the opinions of his con
stituents and be willing to express them 
even if they differ from his own opinions.
2) Ive not been a campus resident long 
enough to be fully aware of the problems 
concerning the student body or what 
powers the Student Senate has to alleviate 
these problems, but when elected I am 
willing to take the stand of the majority of 
my constituents on problems affecting 
them and the campus as a whole. I will 
strive to be a fair and just spokesman for 
the people I plan to represent.
Edward Levine
1) To explain the obligations of a 
Student Senator, it is first important to 
understand the purpose and obligations of 
Senate as a whole. The two primary 
functions of Senate are to distribute funds 
to campus organizations and to represent 
the student body and help influence, the 
faculty, administration, and Board of 
Trustees in their decision making process.
Senate distributes your activities fee 
(close to $90,000 in total) to some forty 
organizations including the TARTAN, 
WRCT, and the Activities Board. It also 
supports a health fund that directly helps 
students who need emergency medical 
loans. The fiscal responsibility of all 
organizations is monitored by the finance 
committee and new clubs are approved by 
the rules committee.
Many senators serve on various 
committees throughout the university to 
provide a student voice in the decision 
making of such organizations as Faculty 
Senate, the parking committee, and various 
Trustee committees. When Student Senate 
speaks, the administration listens. Senate 
was instrumental in getting last years 
bookstore rebates and remuneration for 
residents of overcrowded dorm rooms this 
year.
What are the obligations of a Student 
Senator? In short, a senator carries out the 
function of Senate. He/she is a legislator, a 
thinker, a listener, a talker, someone who is 
willing to spend time and effort to help his 
fellow students.
2) It is not easy to list the problems that 
need to be solved by Senate, let alone put 
them in chronological order. Senate is 
constantly confronted with new problems 
which it is supposed to be able to solve. 
Many times ad hoc committees are formed, 
research is done, and proposals are drawn 
up. It must be remembered however, that 
Senate is not all powerful and can usually 
only influence university policy, not 
change it.
For the future, one interesting problem 
that Senate is looking into is the creation 
of a student co-op on campus. Maybe the 
most important problem facing Senate, is 
gaining the respect of its own constituents, 
the students. As soon as we are all 
convinced that Senate is a viable organiza
tion for change, the power of Senate will 
increase multifold. The first step towards 
this goal is electing a strong Senate. Your 
vote counts.
Ed Abramson 
(Commuter)
James Whitehead 
(UFO)
Steve Lee 
(MDC)
Edward Levine 
(Commuter)
Dave Meixner 
(UFO)
Lew Modic 
(MDC)

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, November 6, 1973I HI? ? 4f r At
NO EASY TASK
Upgrading Sports At C-MU
by Chip Yeager
Last spring, C-MU president Richard M. 
Cyert stated his policy on intercollegiate 
sports, committing C-MU to a general 
upgrading of its sports program. Since 
then, there have been some complaints of 
an inconsistency of support from sport to 
sport. Individuals and teams gripe about 
lack of interest from the academic part of 
C-MU and the Athletic Department., 
specially those participating in soccer, 
track and cross-country.
Last years track team is an example. 
Coach Gary L. Me kley was prepared to 
send the team to the Presidents Athletic 
Conference (PAC) championships last 
spring. Just before the meet. Athletic 
Director Raymond E. Haynes informed 
Meckley that school policy barred all extra
curricular activities for C-MU students 
around the time for final exams, the time 
at which the PAC meet was scheduled. 
Meckley informed all the runners of this. 
His assistant. Paul F. Steva. was told by 
Haynes that the team could not go for lack 
of funds, information which he. too. 
passed on to the team. The TARTAN 
talked to Haynes, who said that the. 
scheduling problem and the lack of funds 
were equally responsible for the teams 
inability to fully participate. Haynes 
pointed out that this years budget was 
made up before C-MU joined the PAC last 
year, and did not take into account C-MU 
participation in any PAC championships. 
Moreover, Haynes said, the Athletic 
Department did not have the power to 
release track members from academic 
obligations. Some runners did get clearance 
from their professors to take part, in the 
meet, yet only 13 of them ultimately made 
the PAC meet at Cleveland.
One subject of complaints has been 
senior track man Tony McKay. Last year, 
he became eligible for participation in
NCAA national indoor meets. McKay 
expected to get funds from C-MU as 
support for his efforts in a C-MU unifornf. 
He talked to Athletic Director Raymond 
Haynes about acquiring the money to run. 
Haynes turned him down on the grounds 
that C-MU did not have an indoor track 
program and could not fund McKay' 
participation in that sport. McKay then 
turned to other sources, such as C-MAI, 
and got his money. He ran in two invitationals in C-MU colors.un ms way to the Madison Square 
Garden Invitational, McKay received word 
that the Athletic Department would 
finance him for any further meets in which 
he wished to run. By this time, he had 
attained some national prominence, so he 
felt the C-MU offer, late that it was, was 
unacceptable. He ran the Madison Square 
without C-MU colors and refused to run in ; 
any more national meets. McKay has come 
to an understanding with the athletic 
faculty this seasonmainly of his own 
initiative, he feels.
Another case in point is the soccer 
team. According to players Mike Smith and 
Dan Streyle, the team this year has use of 
the football field only for games played in 
good weather. The second home game that 
they played this year was moved to the 
intramural field by a directive issued the 
night before saying that a threat of rain 
existed and that a soccer game would chew 
the field up. The intramural field was in 
worse shape, but the game had to go on 
there. Two days later team members talked 
to Dean Swank who promised he would get 
in touch with Haynes. As it is, the soccer 
team practiced two days a week at the 
Schenley Oval and three days a week at the 
IM field. Soccer Coach Steve Fagan feels 
that soccer and football should be able to 
use the IM field up to 6:00 weeknights. 
This would allow more time for practice 
and would furnish each team with a
slightly reduced, but serviceable practice 
field.
"...improvement in atheletics at 
CMU could come about more quick
ly with more cooperation with the 
academic community.. . "
A former soccer player has been a 
subject of some controversy. Senior Peter, 
Moses, a top player for C-MU last year, was 
declared ineligible by the PAC over the 
summer on the grounds that he had played 
for another team, The Cannonsburg 
Cannons in the off season. Moses appealed 
in turn, that neither he nor his coach was 
aware of the particular eligibility rule by 
which he was suspended. Moses pointed 
out that C-MU had, prior to joining the 
PAC, abided by NCAA rules, none of 
which prohibited him from playing for 
other amateur teams in the off-season. The 
assembled athletic directors of the PAC 
schools upheld the suspension, with only 
Haynes dissenting. Moses took the matter 
directly to President Cyert, who personally 
appealed to have the eligibility rule struck 
off the books. He didnt succeed, ,and 
Moses has had to sit out the season. Moses 
has complained that Haynes did not do all 
he could to help him lift his suspension, 
but Haynes calls the allegation absolutely 
ridiculous, pointing out that he 
represented C-MU at the meetings of the 
PAC athletic directors and first brought 
Moses appeal up for consideration.
Many faculty members of the Athletic 
Department feel that inequalities also exist 
in funding. One member of the faculty 
points out that $600 was spent this
summer for a set of weights. These weights 
are in the stadium are for the use of the 
football team, but were used, at most, five 
times this summer. Meanwhile, trainer Paul 
Steve says he cannot be sure of how much 
money he has available to buy basic 
training supplies. Track coach Meckley also 
feels dissatisfied about the spending 
practices around the department, quoting 
as an example, that football players receive 
$1.50 per away game for snacks in addition 
to three square meals per day, while track 
runners often go without lunch because of 
classes and have to run 3 p.m. meets eight 
hours since their last meal. Director Haynes 
responds that every team gets the same 
allocation for meals and that track runners 
also get lunch if they leave before that 
meal is served at C-MU.
The Athletic Department is run from 
two funds, the operating budget, for 
medical supplies, phone bills, secretarial 
help, and the game expense budget, for 
officials, security, meals, etc. A $10,000 
account is yearly given to Haynes from 
Dean Earle Swank and budgeted by Haynes 
on the basis of equipment flow and 
consultation with the coaches.
Many of the faculty in the departmentalso feel that Cyerts goal of improvement 
in athletics at C-MU could come about 
more quickly with more cooperation with 
the academic community. Trainer Steva 
comments that more practice time would 
provide for better conditioning and reduce 
the risk of injuries. He recommends that a 
two-hour slot would be far better than the 
present \Vi hour slot in the aftermoon. 
Some classes, in fact, are scheduled 
between 4:30 and 6:30, against school 
policy. There are over 25 this semester. A 
proposal to reschedule all classes out of 
that time period has been tabled, pending 
observation on how many would go out for 
sports. Steva argues that more persons 
would go out for sports if no class conflicts 
existed in the first place.
THE 
PRODUCTIVE
PATRICK E. HAGGERTY* Chairman of the Board 
Texas Instruments, Incorporated Tuesday, 
Wednesday, and Thursday  November 13,14,and 
15,1973Skibo Ballroom 5:30pm All faculty, 
students, staff and alumni cordially invited
1973 Benjamin F. Fairless Memorial Lecture Series
Carnegie -Mellon Un iversity
Next time 
you see 
someone 
polluting, 
point 
it out.

---------------------------------------------------

iWr xtaouT-iaATA.T 3&MT-***
THE TARTANTuesday, November 6, 1973Page 7
Child Care 
Scholarships
continued from page 1
senators felt that it was not the job of 
Student Senate to support a center that 
serves staff, and faculty as well as students. 
It was partly for this reason that it was 
decided that the scholarship given could be 
used in any child care center.
Originally supported by the university 
itself, the C-MU Child Care Center opened 
two years ago through .the work of the 
C-MU Womens Liberation group. The 
Women of C-MU (WCU) approached the 
administration and requested a location 
and a subsidy. The university gave them 
the recreation room in the basement of 
Morewood Gardens and a $20,000 subsidy. 
As the money ran out, the university 
agreed to pay part of the rent.
Now the university has withdrawn 
support of the center and wants it to 
become self-sufficient. With rising costs 
and a need to pay higher salaries to the 
eight staff members, the C-MU CCC is in a 
financial bind which forces them to raise 
tuition.
Last year the tuition scale was 
divided into three categories, with the 
lowest income bracket paying $97 a month 
for one child who attends the center on a 
full time basis. The highest bracket payed 
$142 per month. The tuition scale is now 
broken down into nine categories, where a 
couple earning less than $4000 a year pays 
$104 for a full time child. A couple earning 
over $18,000 a year pays $212 for their 
child. Calculated for one year, the lowest 
income bracket pays lA of its total income 
on the child care alone.
Exact details of the scholarship grants 
are unavailable at this time. Apparently the 
director of the Child Care Center and 
Senate Finance Committee Chairman Willie 
Thompson will establish the allocation 
mechanisms with the advice of the 
Financial Aid office.
New Paper To Serve Staff
If you can spend some time, even a few hours, with someone who needs a hand, not a handout, call your local Voluntary Action Center. Or write to Volunteer," Washington, D C. 20013
RESEARCH
Thousands of Topics 
$2.75 per page 
Send for your up-to-date, 160-page, 
mail order catalog. Enclose $1.00 to cover postage (delivery time is 
1 to 2 days).
RESEARCH ASSISTANCE, INC. 
11941 WILSHIRE BLVD., SUITE #2 LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90025 (213) 477-8474 or 477-5493Our research material is told for research assistance only.
UNWANTED
PREGNANCY?
AMERICAN FAMILY PLANNING IS A 
HOSPITAL-AFFILIATED ORGANIZA
TION OFFERING YOU ALL ALTERNA
TIVES TO AN UNWANTED PREG
NANCY. FOR INFORMATION IN YOUR 
A#fCALL:
CaM (215) 449-2006
AMERICAN FAMILY 
PLANNINGA Medical Service to Help You
by Michael Scott Baum
A staff news publication is scheduled to 
begin bi-monthly publication sometime 
this week. In a memo to all faculty and 
staff, Mr. Regis J. Ebner of the Public 
Relations Office (who will pilot the paper) 
listed the purposes of the newsletter to 
include, the communication of announce
ments of all administrative actions or 
policy; changes which effect employees of 
CMU; news, either formal or informal, of 
people, groups, or events at CMU; and staff 
or faculty opinions on matters relevant to 
all CMU employees.
Last October 10, President Richard 
Cyert proposed the upcoming staff paper 
because of a lack of communication be
tween the administration and CMU faculty 
and staff, especially regarding matters 
which affect the individuals daily work 
environment. President Cyerts memo 
came shortly after the staff cafeteria con
troversy and the subsequent TARTAN news 
article (Sept. 25) which listed the cafeteria 
closing as only one of a long list of staff 
grievances.
There has not been a staff oriented 
newspaper since Personel Communicates 
ceased publication in the spring of 1972. It 
had been a product of the Personel Office. 
Since Personel Communicates dissolved, 
the faculty newsletter Focus and the
TARTAN have been the staffs only means 
of communication.
Mr. Ebner stated the cost of the new 
paper will be approximately one thousand 
dollars if published bi-monthly for one 
year. The tirst issue will consist of four 
pages, with the length of subsequent
editions depending on the support of the 
campus community. Weekly publication 
will be considered if the paper sparks great 
input.
Persons interested in contributing to the 
paper can submit materials to the Editor, Campus News, Baker Hall 160.
Some archaeologists are gradually becoming convinced that the tiny African country of Swaziland includes a tract of 
mountainous land where modern man first developed. As a result of a series of excavations of a mountainous region ot 
Swaziland, archaeologists have turned up thousands of artifacts and bones of men dating back more than 50,000 years. At 
the very least, reports the March Science Digest, these and other recent discoveries in Africa indicate that the Dark Continent 
may have been the cradle of modern man.
Dear Akadama Mama
InilMirUNl by Siiniorv lntt*rnilinn;il. !.<> Angeles, ('i
The
Fallen Woman.
Dear Akadama Mama:
I have all the stuff that's sup
posed to get you a woman: a big car, 
quad sound, Ravel's Bolero, soft 
lights and a deep couch. Have you 
any suggestions?
Loveless
Dear Loveless:
Move. Sell all that junk and get 
your head straight. Cause like they 
say, The love you take is equal to the 
love you make! If you can't get into 
that, the best I can do is to suggest a 
Fallen Woman. You take 3 parts 
Akadama Plum, 1 part light rum, 
shake with ice and pour over a 
crushed cherry.
AKADAMA MAMA EXPOSES 
HER GREEN THUMB.
Dear Akadama Mama:
The other night I had a terrific 
drink they called a Vodkadama. 
When I asked what was in it, they told 
me to ask Mama. Also for the same 
stamp can you tell me how to get cut 
flowers to last longer?
Flora Lou
Dear Flora Lou:
The way I keep my cut flowers 
bopping along is to crush an aspirin 
and mix it with their water.
The Vodkadama is one of my 
favorites too. It's one part Akadama 
Red to one part Vodka with a lemon 
twist. Another drink that will really 
get you there is the Redball Express. 
Just keep adding Akadama Red to a 
shot of Gin until it tastes so good 
you cant 
put it down.
Listen to Mama, 
and pass the Akadama, the wine 
that tastes a lot more than it costs.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8THE TARTA^Tuesday, November 6, 1973
RESEARCH ASSISTANCE, INC.
NATIONAL HEADQUARTERS:11941 Uilahire Blvd., Suite #2 Los Angeles, Calif., 90025 (213) 477-M74 or *77-5493
Hours: Mon. - Frl. 10 a.a. - 5 p.., Sat. 11 a.a. - 3 p.a.
NATION'S MOST EXTENSIVE LIBRARY OF RESEARCH MATERIAL VOLUME II - SEPTEMBER 1973
This catalog contains detailed descriptions of 4,500 quality research papers. Our papers are sold for research assistance only  not as a finished product for acadealc credit.
PREWRITTEN RESEARCH PATERS LISTED IN CATALOC
The price of a catalog paper Is $2.75 per page. There is a $67.50 aarlana on the purchase of any single catalog paper. An order for a catalog paper must be acc Of anted by payment In full. NO PERSONAL CHECKS HILL BE ACCEPTED. Please use order fora on reverse side of this catalog. Many catalog papers Include at no extra cost at least one of the following: bibliographic page, charts, aaps, graphs, appendices, outlines, etc.All papers are aslled first class the day ve receive your order. First class delivery takes froa 3-5 dsys. Send an extra 50c for Air Mall delivery (1-2 days).
Kov To Use This Catalog
Each research psper is listed by nuaber under subject hesdlngs. At the ead of each paper description the nuaber of pages is indicated. One page is defined aa typewritten and double spaced. Catalog papers are xeroxed copies. See relatad categories for year subject. For exsaple. If you do not find what you need under U<. History, refer to Governaent and Politics, California, etc.
Bib.  Bibliography
Abbreviations
f.a.  footnotes
ORIGINAL RESEARCH ORDERS
Research Assistance, Inc. also has a teaa of professional writers who coapile original research aaterial on alaoec any topic. An order for original research Bust be paid la full before the order Is acted upon. NO PERSONAL CHECKS ACCEPTED. Ike coat is $3.00
Selling Term Papers 
Out of Business in Pa.
by Sandy Como
Buying and selling term papers is now 
illegal in Pennsylvania.
A new bill asserts that a person selling 
research for use by a student is guilty of a 
misdemeanor of the third degree, pun
ishable by a SI00 fine, or 60 days in 
imprisonment, or both.
In the last several years term paper 
writing services, locating themselves near 
college campuses, had become prosperous 
businesses. However, services located in the 
Oakland area have curiously disappeared 
with the passage of the bill. A downtown 
technical writing service, Initia, Inc., admit
ted to writing papers of the types pro
hibited by the law, but refused to com
ment on their concept of the legality of the 
practice.
The law specifies that the sale or distri
bution of dissertations, theses, term papers, 
essays, reports, or other written 
assignments to students intending to sub
mit them in fulfillment of a requirement 
for a degree, diploma, certificate, or course
of study is unlawful. This definition clearly 
forces term paper writing services to shut 
down.
To protect the rights of educational in
stitutions, the law states that no college or 
university should be prevented from of
fering courses of instruction in research or 
writing as part of the curriculum. Neither 
does it prohibit an instructor from au
thorizing students to use statistical or com
puter services in preparing, researching, or 
writing a required paper.
It does not outlaw tutorial assistance in 
the writing of such a paper, or prevent any 
person from receiving a fee for the typing, 
transcription, or reproduction of a 
manuscript.
The bill (Number 10, session of 1973) 
actually amends a previous act (Number 
230, session of 1970) known as the Con
solidated Pennsylvania Statutes. The CPS is 
an entire set of Pennsylvania laws passed 
under one act in November of 1970.
Because of a special senate procedure, 
the bill was put into effect immediately.
e2 THEEARE
N-us dy2,sPo
107.
STUDENT"DISCOUNT
-rvte-sm: tr.3o-5:3o
209Hem ST g7-7V72.
the. -Fri&reily Shop*
ONE FREE COPY OF RELEASE TO ANYONE WITH 
A FOUR ANYWHERE ON THE FACE OF THEIR ID CARD.
PLEASE BRING YOUR ID CARD TO THE
INFORMATION DESK AT SKIBO 
FOR YOUR FREE COPY
relca/e
THE EASIEST WAY TO FIND SOME FON
 .HttyFscier
XWSH
x AU AicHUfetjr...orcakGAOTflwa 
BEAp&AttAT.
RUGS s.
wtth your 0 Card
iaBtis.tit.tt9.ts
ateo tats, 12x12, 12*11
Aim mN Min ffurry rwya uri U
priem iriwUl rf h Im., ASK ABOUT DISCOUNT HItMITI
f ftl ACC'C *** Wwtmd-CMASE 1 m***
M *jm. .  .. *Ht *Far direct 1ms uU tfl-Mt
i
CARNEGIE MELLON 
TRAVEL OFFICE 
Now Located
SKIBO 40A
Open Daily 
1 p.m. - 5 p.m.
BNAI BRITH HILLELJEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
CMU FACULTY-STUDENT SABBATH
Friday, November 9
Worship at 6:30 p.m. in Room 39, SKIBO Chapel 
Dinner at 7:15 p.m. in SKIBO Faculty Dining Room 
(call 621-8875 for dinner reservations-$2.75-by Nov. 7)
Speaker: Professor Alvin Weinstein, Mech. Eng., CMU 
Topic: Ethics in Products Liability"
315 S. BELLEFIELD AVENUE (ACROSS FROM 
HEINZ CHAPEL)
621-8875

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, November 6, 1973Page 9
g2an2at7x 73
1927-73 Resolution? Evolution?
there will never be a better 
world unless there are better 
people and the responsibility 
for these better people starts 
right at home, with me
by Debbie Siegel
This years homecoming marked the 
first student homecoming celebration since 
1969. John Sisson, President of United 
Fraternal Organization and Ira Picker, 
Head of the Activities Board, initiated the 
change by planning events directly for students. Previously, all activities centered 
around alumni.
President Cyert agreed to cancel classes 
on Friday if an activity with intellectual 
relevance was scheduled. Alumni Edgar 
Mitchells speech was considered to fill that 
requirement. The idea of his presentation 
and other activities related to aeronautics 
were part of the program students and 
alumni could share.
In addition, the biggest concert of the 
year (in terms of cost for the Activities 
Board) was planned for that weekend, the 
Frank Zappa Concert.
Alumni were still assured first crack at 
the facilities for the weekend, and students
fit activities around them. Robert 
McCurdy, Director of Student Activities 
commented, I dont think students realize 
how much alumni do for this institution. 
They have raised 4.6 million dollars for the 
university. If students dont have a sense of 
the level of support, they wont understand 
commitment when they leave.
Some Homecoming History
Since the beginning of homecoming 
some fifty years ago there have been mixed 
ideas about its purpose. The question has 
been raised as to whether homecoming 
serves needs of alumni or needs of stu
dents. The first disagreement was in 1920 
when alumni wanted homecoming to occur 
during graduation week. Students opposed 
this idea because it would stifle their parti
cipation in the festivities.
The Alumni Federation was formed in 
1919. By geographical distribution, Car
negie Clans sprung up in some of the main 
population centers inhabited with Carnegie 
Tech graduates. Regardless of department
or school, these clans provided a means for 
closer contact among alumni. When Presi
dent Dohertys administration began, there 
were twenty active clans spread out 
through the US, and ten thousand mem
bers belonged to the Alumni Federation. In 
1964, there were thirty active clans and 
between 28,000 and 29,000 belonged to 
the Federation.
Gilmore Tilbrook, the Alumni Secretary 
in 1920, organized a three day spring time 
event which became known as Campus 
Week. The purpose of this was to reunite 
alumni for celebration and entertainment. 
As students were responsible for the enteratinment, the event became a student 
activity, and the presence of alumni was 
secondary.
In an October 1927 TARTAN in a Let
ter to the Editor one student aired his 
views, Gentlemen, Personally I think 
there should be organized a club and it 
should be called Keep Campus Week As It 
continued on page 9
Mind Expansion Via Moon
studded blackness of space, was for him a by Tom Lang unique and exhilirating religious exper
ience. Dr. Mitchell defined this experience.
As part of homecoming activities, Dr. 
Edgar. D. Mitchell, former astronaut and 
1952 graduate of Carnegie-Mellon Uni
versity, spoke to alumni and students on 
Friday, November 2, in the C-MU gym.  
Mitchell, who was the sixth human to walk 
on the moon, discussed his experiences in 
space, and his subsequent devotion to 
research in psychic phenomena and human 
potential. Upon retirement from the U.S. 
Navy in October 1972, he formed a 
research corporation, Edgar D. Mitchell 
and Associates, Inc., for the specific 
purpose of engaging in this type of 
research.
Dr. Mitchell, who described himself as 
a curious individual grew up questioning 
the meaning of his life and its relation to 
the universe around him. He spent a great 
deal of time investigating the philosophies 
of science and religion, attempting to find 
and follow the order that the beauty and 
splendor of the earth and universe 
illustrated to him.
However, he became interested in 
psychic phenomena indirectly. Itbout eight 
years ago, Mitchell looked into the psychic 
as a skeptic, hoping to disprove the 
phenomenon and prove the irrationality of 
it to his intrigued colleagues. But, while 
attempting to debunk the psychic 
myths, he found himself becoming 
cpivjjiced fey the phenomena and captured 
tiy the ideas. He carried this belief with 
him while an astronaut. o r r
Mitchell was also profoundly affected 
by his experience as an astrortaut. He 
explained that the view of planet earth that 
was afforded him from the moon, a blue 
and green sphere surrounded by the starwhich he feels is shared by all of the 
astronauts as instant global conscious
ness. By this he meant that he returned to 
earth with the feelings and commitments 
of a Planetary Citizen, extending his 
feelings of responsibility and concern 
beyond the national scope.
Mitchell suddenly became aware of the 
deep pathos that was very much a part of 
mankind. Resources were being rapidly 
depleted, waste was being improperly 
disposed of, people. were starving and 
fighting and spaceship earth (as Buck
minster Fuller described it) was undergoing 
one series after another of mutinous 
events. This understanding of the finiteness 
of earth and the abuse of its natural and 
human resources became profound for 
Mitchell and l}e returned determined to do 
something to salvage the planet.
In pursuing the solution, Dr. Mitchell 
offered three alternative courses of action. 
The first was to allow things to pass, 
risking the failure of the experiment earth. 
The second alternative is to relegate our, 
perogatives to a planetary,'big brother
* control which would  allocate resources,, 
control population growth and determine 
the level of affluence. The third, and most 
favorable alternative is to place the 
responsibility of the solution upon each 
individual. That is, each individual needs to 
order his priorities to promote optimum survival (or fulfillment) for ^imself and his 
fellow man. Ultimately, then, a better 
world can only be a product of a better 
people.
Mitchell offers as the means to this 
betterment of the homo sapiens species the 
untapped mental potential that lies within
man. He believes that if man can learn the 
mechanisms of his consciousness he can 
bring himself and, ultimately, planet earth 
into a harmonic state. Thus, Mitchell has 
dedicated himself to research in anddevelopment of numetics or the science of 
consciousness. To date, the findings have 
led to the discovery of consciousness as an 
independent quantity, more aligned to the 
soul and spirit than it is to matter. Con
sciousness is thus a separate entity, 
independent even of the physiological 
functioning of the brainr.
Experiments conducted at the Stanford 
Research Institute have revealed the tele
pathic, clairvoyant and psycho-kinetic 
powers pf the mind. The continuing 
research will, then, not attempt to prove 
these phenomena but to learn about them 
and how they relate to each other. Of 
course, these powers are trainable, but they 
occur only when the mind is in a relaxed 
internal state. Findings have also been 
reported that when someone enters this 
alternate state of consciousness, the focus 
is on moral and ethical thoughts and 
considerations of value systems.
Undoubtedly, the development of the 
minds potential -raises important ethical, 
moral and philosophical questj^nsandcoty 
side rations. Mitchell feels that man would 
then need to simultaneously develop a 
moral and ethical system as the technology 
is explored.
Dr. Mitchells present role in the 
program is finding funds for the much need 
research in numetics and parapsychology, 
in addition to spreading the news.
(At an alumni awards banquet on Friday 
evening, Edgar D. Mitchell received the 
Alumni Associations Distinguished 
Achievement Award which he won in
1971.)

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, November 6, 1973
by Steve Calhoun
It was fun, said one contestant.
It wasnt too unorganized, said 
another.
Eleven participants vied for trophies in 
four contests at the first annual C-MU Bike 
Rally.
It was a typical C-MU event, said a 
cyclist.
Cyclists wound their way through 
Phonebooks, papers taped to the ground, 
and other markers as they demonstrated 
steering ability as well as speed. The four 
contests were the slalom, the giant slalom, 
the slow race, and the sprint. They took 
place on Skibo parking lot and various 
sidewalks. Contestants were divided into 
two groupsthose having 3 or 5 speed 
bikes, and those having 10 speed or fancier 
bikes.
In the 3 and 5 speed division, first and 
second place were captured by David 
Chapman and Paula Strasser respectively. 
In the upper division, Dan Klein and Matt 
Neiburger tied for first place.
Winners were announced during the 
homecoming game at halftime.
The bicycle rally-like the Mitchell 
lecture, the helicopter rides, and the 
Stuntmaster airplane demonstrationwas 
sponsored by the Homecoming Committee 
and funded by Student Senate. Members of 
the committee were Ira Picker, John 
Simmons, and Scott Moon.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, November 6, 1973Page 11
by Sharon Curcio
Confidence is something one has 
before fully knowing the facts . . . Just 
because you have a degree in x doesnt 
mean you have to do that.
A five member panel, including former 
Apollo astronaut Edgar Mitchell, urged 
students to keep their job options open, 
and avoid thinking that one necessarily 
spends ones life doing what one was 
trained to do.
The panel members were William 
Pounds, Dean of the Sloan School of 
Management at MIT; William Albrecht, 
former Dean of the Graduate School at the 
University of Kansas; Erma Meyerson, 
Professor of Social Work at the University 
of Pittsburgh; Edgar Mitchell; and Maxwell 
Conan, a member of the C-MU Board of 
Trustees.
Mitchell was not the only panelist who 
illustrated the value of keeping options 
open. Others were:
Pounds, who graduated from C-MU in 
1950 as a chemical engineer and worked as 
an engineer for Eastman Kodak and as an 
aviator for the Navy before becoming an 
academic.
Dr. Albrecht, who graduated from 
C-MU in 1929 in engineering and industrial 
management and worked as a technical 
writer for Westinghouse Electric 
Corporation. He then served in the Navy 
before beginning the career in English 
teaching that led to his becoming Dean at 
the University of Kansas.
Dr. Albrecht discussed job opportunities 
for humanities students, commenting that 
the humanities continue to grow due to 
some struggling principle of survival, 
despite the hostile environment. He 
predicted that the tight job market for 
college humanities instructors will ease 
since fewer students are training for 
teaching. He suggested that students can 
best break into commercial publishing and 
editing by becoming on-the-road 
representatives for publishers. He spoke 
disparagingly of his short experience as a 
technical writer, saying that industry 
advances engineers and managers rather 
than technical writers.
Dr. Pounds confessed with a broad smile 
that he has been an academic administrator 
for a disturbingly long period. He went 
on to advise students to get a good 
education, keep options open, and nurture 
a sense of humor for career planning. 
Opportunities appear for those with a good 
basic education, personality, optimism, and 
motivation, he asserted, urging students 
not to be afraid to apply their skills in 
diverse areas.
Conan, who has just completed his term 
as president of the alumni association, 
advised students with entrepreneurial 
inclinations to establish their own 
businesses. He warned that starting your 
own business involves hard work, long 
hours, sacrifice, and risk (it took him ten 
years to get his business off the ground and 
make a profit), but stated that the reward 
is a career that expands as it leads into
related fields. He advised students to regard 
profit as a means to acquire leisure time to 
pursue special interests rather than as an 
end in itself, noting that profit motivation 
alone traps many businessmen into a 
money making obsession that prevents 
them from developing new skills and 
enjoying their work.
Dr. Meyerson, a 1939 graduate of the 
now defunct Margaret Morrison Carnegie 
College, emphasized careers in social work 
combined with student personnel services. 
She noted that fifty schools offer graduate 
training in higher education administration, 
and said that the increase in college 
students older than 25 has led to new 
needs for Student Affairs directors, student 
counselors, and financial organizers. She 
maintained that human-related careers hold 
a range of challenging opportunity; 
human related insights are now essential in 
urban planning and business management.
Mitchell, whose current interest is 
numetics, the exploration of human 
consciousness, predicted that para
psychology will provide a wide range of 
career opportunities within the next five 
years, requiring physical scientists, 
engineers, technicians, philosophers, 
biologists, clinicians, anthropologists, and 
chemists. He also said that aerospace will 
employ man> graduates; Careers in the 
aerospace programs will soon 
r-open . .. our space exploration will 
continue-its like inventing (tie wbee' t 
this point we are not going to throw away 
the mold.
Photos by Chris Forland 
and John Rose

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12THE TARTANTuesday, November 6, 1973
The Coming and the Going...
continued from page 9
Is. What interests alumni in reiurning to 
campus? It is to have a good time, to see 
certain of their own classmates, to shake 
hands w'ith their favorite faculty, and these 
can be achieved at any time.
In 1928 alumni decided they would at
tract a better crowd if the event occurred 
in the fall and a major football game was 
included as highlight of the weekend. This 
decision caused a major conflict between 
the student council and alumni.
The conflict over the schedulingA)f cam
pus week continued for a year. Students 
missed the event when it didnt occur. A 
petition from Student Council requested a 
lapse in classes for Campus Week to start 
again. The result was a grant of two days
Sex Ed 
Destroys 
Faith Myth
continued from page 1
The lecture on Birtn Control and Abor
tion was given by Cathlyn Gable. Various 
methods of birth control were discussed 
and she explained about the foolishness' 
of the most popular method which she 
calls Faith, Hope, and Charity. It just 
doesnt work, ^he said, and added, if a 
c<jiple are getting intimate they ought to 
b^mature enough to realize that they will 
ned some form of birth control.
The second part of the lecture con
cerned abortion and was presented by Dr. 
Leonard Laufe of the West Penn Hospital. 
He preferred to use the phrase pregnancy 
termination instead of abortion, as he ex
plained, The word abortion conjures up 
horrible visions. He gave some facts about 
abortion, one of which was about the 
high death-rate. One woman out of ev
ery 33,000 having an abortion dies, one 
woman out of every 6,000 going through 
childbirth dies. He mentioned that the Uni
ted States is behind.the Iron Curtain coun
tries in pregnancy termination services. 
He also presented a film with the lecture.
The third lecture covered Sexual Func
tion and Dysfunction. It was presented by 
Dr. Carol Anderson, who covered the 
psychological aspects of Dysfunction, and 
by Dr. Martin Rulin, who covered the 
physical aspects of both function and 
dysfunction. Dr. Rulins portion of the lec
ture was a slide show with some Masters 
and Johnson information. Dr. Anderson 
talked about the psychological problems of 
impotence, premature ejaculation and 
frigidity.
The cost of the program is minimal, the 
lecturers are volunteers and the most mon
ey is spent on publicity. Sue Christian, one 
of the people responsible for the program, 
said that they were trying to get a feel for 
reactions. Her own reaction to the pro
gram was, Im exuberant! The possibili
ties of a Human Sexuality course for credit 
are being explored, but Ms. Christian 
doesnt think that it will come about in the 
near future.
Some of the other programs she is look
ing into involve specialized courses for 
C-Map, Fraternities and WDC. That pro
gram would involve the specific problems 
of each group.
rather than three for the event of Spring 
Carnival. All features the administration 
objected to in Campus Week had to be 
eliminated.
One might try to compare the 1927 
homecoming with ours in 1973."Festivities 
began with dinner at fhe commons on Fri
day at 6:00. Enter&innfeht was'provided 
by RohlandyCtiffege Club6rchestra. After 
dinner, the j^fowcT went to the football 
field for a boiijut with singing and 
cheering*i!e13 by Dan Cassidy ijnd Skijch
Henderson. A bull session in the Varsity 
Clan room followed.
Saturdays schedule centered around the 
football game when Carn&gie played its 
long time rival, the University of Pittsburgh
Panthers. Despite techs fame, the Panthers 
defeated tech with a score of 23-7. A 
crowd of 55,000 to 60,000 fans rooted for 
their teams while standing on the lines. In 
the evening, a d^nce at the Hotel Schenley 
(wherethe Pitt Union now stands) with an 
admission fee of $2.50 took place.
Another correlation between the two 
years, is financial. In >927, profits 
amounted to $3,181.40. The Student 
Council appropriated $8,460.95 and 
homecoming,, .was capable of supporting  
omQhird oi\the campus activities-for the 
rest*; of the year. This year, the cost of 
Frank Zappas concert is in the neighbor
hood of ten thousand dollars. One may ask 
what profits from this extravaganza might
be. . .
In 1973 many alumni returned for class 
reunions. The class of 1923 celebrated its 
Golden Anniversary with a special dinner. - 
Awards were presented to alumni who have 
made outstanding contributions to society 
in some professional area, (recently, an ac
tivity for younger alumni was added be
cause programs were usually geared for 
older alumni and the more recent graduates^ 
would go back to their fraternities instead 
of participating in scheduled programs.)
In forty years, Carnegie Tech became A 
Carnegie-Mellon University. Frank Zappa * 
replaced Rohlands College Club Orchestra.) 
55,000 fans attended a football game in 
1927, and now at CMU. . .
PROGRAM ON HUMAN SEXUALITY 1973/1974 
CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITY
ORGANIC DISORDERS &
VENEREAL DISEASE
NOVEMBER 7
\V\%
WARREN CYRUS, CHIEF 
BUREAU OF HEALTH EDUCATION
LacksCknditeThPCkLarC DEgJ,IC]|f
BARBARA HAYES, M.D.
BREED MEMORIAL HALL, MMCC 
WEDNESDAY, 8:00P.M.
OPEN TO MEN AND WOMEN
.v.v.v,

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, November 6, 1973Page 13
AU.icH 
^\SB4 C* +
I Ivi-- *! -^rfiggrjix byJ
ORDER THEM NOW
BAKER HALL NOV. 5 THRU NOV. 9
THE YEARBOOK STILL NEEDS* 
-WRITERS
- DESIGNER
- PHOTOGRAPHERS
INTERESTED CONTACT :
JOHN McGUIRE, BUSINESS MANAGER 682-4105

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14 THE TARTANTuesday, November 6, 1973
Attention!
Get a Discount on Your
FILM ARTS 
TICKETS
Now on sale for: $3.75 per semester
$6.00 per year pass
Available at Skibo Information Desk
November 8-Forbidden Games
Times 4:30,7:00,9:30
PITTSBUR6H BALLET THEATREpresent
CARMINA CATULLIBOLERO, SCENES DE BALLET,SOIREES, MUSICALES
HLINZ HALL iOV. 9,10,11 281-0360
by Susan N. Klein
If live music is the best (and it is), then live jazz music has 
>ot to be the bestest. It took an event of major import such as 
Homecoming to get a little elegance and sophistication into 
our C-MU veins. We were treated to a late-afternoon sit-down 
jazz concert by the C-MU jazz band.
You cant explain to anyone who doesnt love jazz what the 
sound of a live band pumping all the music through you can 
do for your soul. The C-MU jazz band is an excellent little 
unit, and they played Saturday afternoon for a long, long 
time. They did one hour-long set, and after a little break they 
did another, shorter set. With the energy with which they 
played Id be surprised if they have anything resembling 
ombechures left on their little heads.
The band consists of maybe a dozen and a half guys and 
one Ms., and like the Big Bands of that era, its mostly shiny 
horns, saxes of all varieties, trumpets (though no cornets), 
trombones, and a little percussion. They sounded wonderfully 
tight, played fairly average-sounding arrangements of a lot of 
standard jazz-band stuff, but were never mediocre. Theres no 
way that all those horns blending in all kinds of ear-pleasing 
harmonies could ever become less than vital. The very richness 
of Big Band jazz, its lush, delicious style, makes it pleasing in 
any form; an easy, lay-down piece like the Thaddeus 
Jones/Mel Lewis band tune Lowdown goes down as smoothly 
as a taste of the brassy Jimmy Webb classic MacArthur Park in 
all its tearful swellings.
The unique thing about the C-MU jazz group, or any group 
playing Big Band jazz now, is its universal age appeal. The 
audience was partly Home-comers, and mostly students, bacl< 
for more after the teasing they got of the bands stuff on the 
lawn outside Fine Arts the other week. The C-MU jazz band 
can do a repertoire spanning thirty years and no one will blink 
an eye. Groups like Blood, Sweat and Tears, Chicago, and even 
lesser groups like Lighthouse and Chase have brought the old 
brassy sounds back into their own among the younger 
audiences. So the modern stuff is done next to old reliable and 
brilliant pieces like the soothing Mercy, Mercy which Buddy 
Rich (the guy who looks like the Missing Link and is the best 
drummer in the world) introduced years and years ago.
The soloists, particularly Carl Ditto on alto sax, flute, 
clarinet, and just about anything else theyd let him get his 
hands on, were smartly versatile. An interesting new piece by 
Hank Levy, which sounded in structure like something from 
the Chicago Three album, was one of my favorites, along with 
the jazz Phillip Sousa-ish march which ended the first set. Even 
an arrangement of Quincy Jones them from Ironsides along 
with the theme from 2110, which we all know and love.
The C-MU jazz band, led by Alan Teare, is a glass of fine 
Sherry while everyone else is drinking beer. What a pleasant 
way to have spent an afternoon.
The C-MU Jazz ensemble, led by Alan Teare.
Photo by Popowitz
by Mark Evan Chimsky
A Dolls House is distressing for the 
same reason it is distinguished - written 
nearly one hundred years ago, it still is 
relevant. Women still find themselves cast 
in secondary, puppet-like roles they do not 
wish to play. Even now, a woman who is 
a living doll is the male idea of 
perfection. When Mrs. Nora Helmer 
abandons her sacred duties to husband 
and children, shutting the door firmly on 
all the past, unhappy rituals she has been 
forced by society to perform, modern 
audiences have no difficulty identifying 
with her situation. Nora becomes merely 
the Drop-Out Mother of 1897.
The recent screen version of the durable A Dolls House is well-crafted, and in the 
fierce, final moments, truly stunning. 
Patrick Garlands thoughtful direction is 
splendidly low-keyed. Anthony Hopkins 
invests Noras chauvinistic husband, 
Torvald, with a humanity that avoids 
cliches and offers the film its most 
memorable portrayal. Of the supporting 
cast, Dame Edith Evans adds another 
polished facet to her jewel of a career, and 
Sir Ralph Richardson manages to defy his
admirers by giving a surprisingly broad and 
flat performance. Of course, in A Dolls House all roads lead to Nora.
Throughout much of the film, Claire 
Bloom presents us with a rather cunning, 
insincere Nora, playing profitable games 
with men, manuevering them as if they 
were toys. She plays the very same male 
game she so vehemently denounces in the 
films climactic last scene. Ms. Blooms 
interpretation sustains, as well as flaws, the 
film. Rather than rooting for Nora (the 
victim) to leave her false, lovely house, we 
find ourselves accusing Nora (the victimizer) of not realizing her share of the 
guilt. Instead of running away just from 
her Dolls House, her Dolls Life of sub
jugation, she is also running away from 
herself and the coy, calculating games she 
alone has plotted. Such an interpretation is 
valid and fascinating, but detrimental to 
the films essential intent. Claire Blooms 
Nora is a coquette, driven by a quiet, 
almost hypnotic intensity. But, until the 
films climax, her glowing performance 
yeilds no warmth, no deep sincerity, and 
we begin to empathize more with Noras 
cause than with Nora.
Despite the dazzling, verbal pas-de-deux 
between Nora and her husband, the film 
remains unsatisfying. Ms. Blooms interpre
tation of Nora prevents A Dolls House 
from ever achieving monumental proportions.

---------------------------------------------------

Hc TTHE TARTANTuesday, November 6, 1973Page 15r
by Sharon Neustein
Nightwalk, an Q>en Theatre produc
tion, was the Activities Boards latest offer
ing in the way of imported theater. It was 
 one of those shows that people walk out of 
feeling theyve seen something really good, 
but no one agrees on just what it was. The 
confusion stems from the nonexistent plot 
and ambiguous situations and characters.
In general terms, the audience accom
panied a man and an unidentified crea
ture while they observed a series of scenes 
on the central theme of Sleep. These 
v ranged from an attempt to indict Sleep, 
without acknowledging its existence, to 
surrealistic dream sequences. A large part 
of the audiences enjoyment was a result of 
the hilarious caricatures in many of the 
dreams. A dinner party, for instance, had 
much of the audience rolling on the floor.
It wasnt what was happening so much 
as how it was done that made Nightwalk so 
good. The show could be viewed as a study 
in body movement and sound. The actors 
exhibited an amazing control of their own 
muscles. Perhaps the most obvious example 
of this was the varied facial expressions 
they used in switching roles. Tiese kept 
the costumes simple and for the most part, 
almost unnecessary. The set, consisting of 
nothing more than a few wheeled platforms, was also conducive to the mobility 
and general looseness of the action.
Rhythm was the single element that did 
most to tie the show together. The actors 
used drums, bells, shakers and their own 
voices to create a persistent beat, re
sembling the rhythm of sleep. The man and 
creature ware especially involved in this 
because they wore bells on their ankles. 
Every move contributed to the beat.
The creature was probably the greatest 
source of fascination to the audience. She 
resembled several different animals, re
sulting in some lively debates as to just 
which one she was. But it wasnt what she 
was that caught peoples interest. Like the 
production itself, it was the way she did 
things that delighted the audience. She 
seemed full of curiosity about the things 
she was seeing, and expressed a lot of emo
tions, without uttering a word, such as 
anxiety when the man disappeared for 
awhile. She made soft, purring sounds in 
her throat and panted, but towards the end 
she seemed to be experimenting with imi
tations of the sounds the actors shed been 
watching had made.
All of the actors did a lot with the
* sounds of conversation, as opposed to the 
words making it up. As a result of this, it 
was sometimes difficult to understand just 
what was being said. They ran words to
gether, mumbled and used changes in pitch 
and tone to communicate the sense of 
words without using the words themselves. 
The sounds had a dream-like and 
sometimes nightmarish quality.
* The program describes Nightwalk as a 
collective work created by the Q>en 
Theatre, and the entire company certianly 
deserves a lot of credit for creating such an 
excellent show. The actors exhibited great 
skill in an unusual type of theater. In fact, 
it was that skill which made the production 
work at all. A great deal of writing and 
directorial talent very evidently went into
4 its creation. All those people, working to
gether, put out a really enjoyable final 
product._________ _______
by Susan N. Klein
Now Im going to tell you about a 
Carnegie-Mellon dramat to whom reviews 
are going to be important. My first intro
duction to Stephen Steinlauf came by way 
of the New York Times, where a feature on 
the closing of Hello Dolly! late in 
December, 1970 turned out to be more 
about a crazy teenager who had seen Dolly 
sixty-six times, than about the show itself.
How anyone could have abided an 
evening of Jerry Hermans music more than 
once was beyond me (it still is). Anyway it 
turns out that Steinlauf had started 
hanging out around the St. James Theatre 
and around David Merricks offices above 
Sardis about two years before then; the 
same time I had been getting chummy with 
the box-office lady across the street at the 
Majestic Theatre. (Im surprised we didnt 
run in to each other once in all those 
stage-struck weekends on 44th Street). 
After the Dolly publicity, Steinlauf found 
himself working as a gofer, and subsequent
ly, an apprentice in Merricks offices, and 
in those weekends, summers, and 
vacations, he learned all the ins-and-outs of 
the Broadway legit theater game.
In February of 1972, Merrick brought a 
play into the Royale Theatre by way of the 
Washington Arena Stage. It was a play 
written by a young writer named Michael 
Weller. Now called Moonchildren, it had 
been touring the college circuit for some 
time under the title Cancer. Clive Barnes of 
the Times liked the play a lot; so did 
Walter Kerr. The other critics had mixed 
reactions. Richard Watts of the New York Post was to change his mind about Moonchildren, re-evaluating it more 
favorably about two weeks after it had 
opened. But that was too little too late. Moonchildren had already closed.
As. I sat in that theatre, totally absorbed 
in a play I recognized as being geared for 
an audience about five years older than 
myself, I realized that Moonchildren was 
doomed. The Royale Theatre had a typical 
Broadway audience that afternoonme 
and about 1,000 middle-aged matrons who 
didnt know exactly what *vas coming off 
up there on stage, but who did know they 
[didnt like it. Martin Gottfried was the only 
critic who suggested what the main 
problem with Moonchildren wasit simply 
did not belong in a Broadway house.Moonchildren is about a group of a 
dozen college students living together 
off-campus in the mid-sixties. They inter
act with each other the way you and I do; 
theres a lot of goofing around, a lot of 
realistic jargon, a lot of fun, but one of the 
guys mothers is dying of cancer. It was a 
long play, but it was a fascinating one. Moonchildren went down after thirteen 
performances, but not without a big 
campaign to save the show; lots of letters 
to the editor and features articles in the 
Sunday Times.
Enter that Dolly boy, now a CarnegieMellon dramat. Steinlauf took his 
experience, his knowledge, his eye for good 
drama and his unbounding initiative and 
set about to arrange for Moonchildren to 
be revived off-Broadway this season. Its 
opening was Sunday, November 4 at the 
Theatre De Lys on Christopher Street in 
Greenwich Village, which is preci^ly 
where Moonchildren belonged in the first 
place. Steinlauf was hesitant to talk
extensively about Moonchildren before its 
opening; not out of old theatrical super
stition but out of ethics. I can tell you that 
John Pasquin, a former Carnegie-Mellon 
professor, is directing the show. I can also 
tell you that Michael Weller, who has a new 
musical opening off-Broadway shortly, has 
done some alterations on the script. And 
Steve Steinlauf will gleefully tell you about 
the rave reviews the new Moonchildren has 
gotten in Boston in its pre-New York 
tryout tour.
So now Moonchildren has gotten its 
well-deserved second chance because of 
one persons creative caring. A number of 
people have gone to New York to see the 
play during previews. Its critical success is 
practically inevitable. I can only hope that 
there are enough young people around who
care enough to keep Moonchildren run
ning. The American theatre, with one foot 
and four toes in the grave, will need some
one to replace those middle-aged matrons 
who are going to die off some day. The 
success or failure ofMoonchildrens revival 
may be indicative of future trends in the 
theatre. If you get a chance to go up to 
New York, see this play.?And may I suggest that many people 
have the right idea in making that trip to 
New York exclusively to see Moonchildren. For someone like Steinlauf, who 
in the space of a few years watched one of 
the greatest producing dynasties in Ameri
can theatrical history crumble to the 
ground along with the dust of the Astor 
Hotel down the street from Merricks 
offices, the care of coevals is encouraging.
Brian Bedford will star at the Nixon 
Theatre in Pittsbuigh for a one-week 
engagement in the national company of 
Simon Grays London and Broadway hit 
play, Butley, opening on November 12. Butley is directed by James Hammerstein, 
who also directed the Broadway pro
duction last season to critical acclaim.Butley explores the complex relation
ship between university lecturer Ben 
Butley and his former star pupil (now 
fellow lecturer), Joey. Against a back
ground of petty academic politics, Butley 
makes some painful discoveries, about 
himself and those he loves or purports to 
. love, when in the course of a single day, he 
faces both the ultimate breakdown of his 
marriage and of his intense friendship with 
Joey. Hardbitten and cynical on the 
surface, Butley emerges as a moving and 
touching character.
Brian Bedford, in the role created on 
the English and Broadway stage by Alan
Bates, made his American stage debut in Five Finger Exercise and has since been a 
favorite of audiences on Broadway and on 
tour in Private Lives and School for Wives. 
The latter earned him a Tony Award as 
Best Actor of 1972. Among his many other 
roles have been The Private Ear and the Public Eye, The Knack, Lord Pengo and 
the APA-Phoenix productions of The Cocktail Party and The Misanthrope.
Also in the cast of Butley are Paul Jott, 
Barbara Lester (repeating her Broadway 
role), Sharon Laughlin, James Hummert, 
Saylor Creswell and Linda Charet. The 
production is designed by Neil Peter 
Jampolis.
Tickets for Butley are now on sale by 
mail order, or at the Box Office. The play 
is being presented by Lester Osterman 
Productions in association with Michael 
Codron and Producing Managers Company. Butley is a Theatre Guild-American 
. Theatre Society attraction.
THE TENTH MUSE
(A.B. COFFEE HOUSE)
pfttstnis
PAUL UNGULE
Canadian rock-folk artist 
for three special coffee houses 
November 8,9,10 9:00P.M.
Free Thursday in the Wherrett Room 
Fri. and Sat.-50$ in the Kiltie Cafe

---------------------------------------------------

Page '16^-THE TARTANTuesday, November 6, 1973
feij
by George Bias
The Homecoming concert in the gym 
last Saturday was one of the finest to be 
seen in this town this year. In case you 
missed (horrors) it was Frank Zappa and 
the Mothers of Invention, backed up by 
Kathy Dalton.
Kathy Dalton, new to the recording 
business, did a reasonably good set, better 
than most back-ups in this city. Un
fortunately, her band was barely adequate; 
however, Kathy Dalton made up some of 
this disability with her fine vocals. Expect 
more from her in the future.
Frank Zappa and the Mothers of 
Invention have been around for eight years 
in one form or another, and the band has 
gone through several distinct phases. The 
initial concept was to call the group the 
Muthers, but that name was changed to 
appease MGM.
Now the Mothers of Invention have 
changed considerably, but Frank Zappa has 
kept that which influenced his early music: 
his biting criticism of American society. As 
usual Zappa only performed a few songs 
from his previous repertoire, including The 
Idiot Bastard Son, Dogbreath Variations, 
and Uncle Meat in the first show, and 
Cosmic Debris and Montance in the second 
snow.
Where the first show was fairly placid.
the second show was more of what is 
expected of Zappa. Right at the beginning 
he succeeded in calming down an unruly 
audience with his usual manner of cutting 
things down with sarcasm. The second 
show was by far the better of the two, with 
the Mothers being more free with their 
leads. More games were played and the 
Mothers once again proved that they are 
the finest musicians on the rock scene 
today.
The highlight of the second concert was 
the encore. Ruth Underwood, the straight 
Julliard pianist, finally did her percussion 
solo. Ruth has always been very insecure 
about improvisation, especially solos, but 
she couldnt get out of it this time, and she 
did perform quite well on the marimbas.
Just a few more notes in brief about the 
band. Ian Underwood is no longer with the 
Mothers. Frank Zappa didnt know where 
he was or what he was up to. Jean Luc 
Ponty and Sal Marquez also seem to have 
gone their own ways. The band now 
consists of Napoleon Murphy Brock, Bruce 
Fowler, Ruth Underwood, 
RalphHumphrey, Chester Thompson, Tom 
Fowler, George Duke and Frank Zappa on 
guitar.
Expect the Mothers to hit it big in the 
next few months. Thqir new album, Over 
Nite Sensation is top twenty in Pittsburgh, 
and top ten in Detroit. A single will be 
released this month, and it should sell well. 
It all seems highly irregular.
Zappa and his Mothers in concert Saturday in the C-MU gym.Photos by Ed Levine
Civic Arena 
John Mayall comes to Petesburgh on 
Thursday, November 8, at 8:00 p.m. 
Appearing also will be the worlds greasiest 
band, J. Geils, (you have to see these guys 
to believe) and a local group, Back Door. 
Should be a really raunch and rowdy 
crowd, so watch your mojo.
Organ Grinder
Hector Olivera will give an organ recital at 
Heinz Hall on December 1, at 8:00 p.m. 
Sponsored by the Pittsburgh youth 
Symphony, the program will include a 
varied selection ranging from Bach to Liszt, 
and one of the musicians own 
compositions. Tickets are $3, $4, and $5 at 
Heinz Hall and Hornes. No there will be 
no monkey.
Museum of Art
Starting October 30, there will be a 
Lowing of art in residence at the Carnegie 
Museum of Art. Among the gifts given to 
the museum are an Edward Hopper oil, and 
a charcoal drawing by Arshile Gorky.
Jazzy
The Pitt Jazz Ensemble, under the 
direction of Professor Nathan Davis will 
play at the Carnegie Lecture Hall on 
Friday, November 9, in a benefit for the 
University of Pittsburgh YMCA. Donations 
are $2.50 (since this is a benefit, tickets are 
called donations. Neat huh?)
How Sweet It Is
Every Saturday night in November there 
will be a Gay coffeehouse at the first 
Unitarian Church, Ellsworth and Morewood Avenue, in Shadyside. Also, on 
Sundays, Gay Community Meetings will 
take place at the church. Both are 
sponsored by Gay Alternatives Pittsburgh 
and should be more interesting, although 
not as much fun as the Holiday.
Sensibilities?
It is regretted that offense was taken from 
my remarks on the National Theatre of the 
Deaf since pone was intended.
ONE PEFORMANCE ONLY 
HEINZ HALL
Thursday, November 29 at 8:30 p.m.
ONE PEFORMANCE ONLY 
HEINZ HALL 
Thursday, November 29 at 8:30 p.m.
A fascinating pageant of performers and musi
cians, featuring singing, dancing, ritual sword 
fighting and the art of Kung Fu.
Tickets: $7.50, $6.50, $5.50 
,at the Heinz Hall Box Office, Gimbels, Horne's, 
Kaufmann's, and the Pitt Book Store.
10% discount to students and senior citizens with 
ID's at the Box Office.
Discounts to groups of 20 or more. Phone 281- 
8185 for more information.
HEINZ HALL FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS HEINZ HALL

---------------------------------------------------

TH TARTANTuesday, November 6,1973Page 17
/port/
Tartans Play 
Heroically, Save 
Homecoming Victory
by Jim Litsas
The C-MU Tartans came back from a 
halftime deficit to defeat the Washington 
and Jefferson Presidents and claim an 
exciting Homecoming game victory on 
Saturday, by a score of 21-13. After a
Tartans came back to hold W&J scoreless 
the entire second half, and gain 15 points 
for themselves.
On their first offensive drive of the 
game, the Tartans John Radic fumbled on 
a carry, W&J recovering. An interception
Senior running back JaHn Radic.PHao by Cawrtnay Lartan
Tom McMeekin converts.
up W&Js first score. Two offensive drives 
later, Radic fumbled again. Various other 
bad breaks and penalties left the Tartans 
looking sloppy, seemingly apathetic to the 
game, and in possession of a seven point 
deficit by halftime. Their only score of this 
half was set up by the same play that has 
broken open other Tartan games this 
season, a halfback option pass from John 
Radic to Brian Carlock.
lhe Tartans received the second half 
kickoff, and almost immediately looked 
like a new team. Little 56 Bob Curtis fired 
up the team and the crowd with some of 
the best running seen all season, getting 
key first downs and setting up our second 
half scores. The offensive line held off the 
Presidents line with excellent blocking. 
John Radic scored all three Tartan touch
downs, the last one an impressive run cap
ping a 90 yard offensive drive. Then, with 
minutes left in the ballgame, the Presidents 
had the ball first and goal on CMUs 9 yard 
line. Somehow the Tartan defense held 
their opponents for four downs, stopping 
them on their last try on the two foot line. 
After punting out of danger, the exciting 
victory was secure.
Mike McPherson and Dave Arnett led 
the W&J offense with 86 and 35 rushing 
yards respectively. Arnett also caught two 
touchdown passes, one for 39 yards and 
one for 70. For the Tartans, Bob Curtis 
gained 191 yards rushing and John Radk 
gained 67. Radic also had four pass 
receptions for 74 yards, while Brian 
Carlock had five for 85.
POWER SHORTAGE 
IN THE U.S.?
The Navy needs pilots and flight 
officers. Starting salary after 4 
months training is $10,000 plus. 
Free medical and dental benefits. 
Perfect vision not required. For 
more information, call 644-5889 
or 644-5897.
Photo by Courtney Larson
But one of the most important things to 
come out of Saturdays game was the 
performance of the Tartans two freshmen 
quarterbacks, Jay Duquette and Ted 
Harhai. Their combined total of 16 
complete passes from 24 attempts with 
only one interception, as well as their 
confidence on the field, clearly indicates 
that they have matured since their first 
college game six Saturdays ago.
It should be mentioned that Roberta 
Cunningham, the Baldwin High School 
Marching Band and the Heatherettes added 
to the colorful Homecoming game show. A 
great many alumni came out to watch the 
game and fill up the stands. The campus 
Greeks came in their respective character
istic habitats, and a good loud crowd of 
about 3,000 students, parents and alumni 
came out on the beautiful afternoon to 
watch what was expected to an easy G-MU 
w*n- Mike Wegener and Pete Hoysan 
were given awards for scholastic and 
athletic achievement during half time. 
Also, Beta Theta Pi and Delta Tau Delta 
won awards for cheering during the game 
and split a case of champagne between 
them.
Thus ended the 1973 Tartan 
Homecoming game. For Seniors John 
Radic, Ron Shinault, Bill Vukoder, Curt 
Simmons, Rod Jurkiewicz and co-captains 
Mike Bralkowski and Brian Carlock, it was 
their last Homecoming. Let us wish them 
success in the future and hope they come 
visit Tech Field for next years 
Homecoming victory.
MIO-YEAR
GRADUATES
The Navy needs pilots and flight 
officers. Starting salary after 4 months 
training is $10,000 plus. Free medical 
and dental benefits. Perfect vision not 
required. For more information, call 
644-5889 or 644-5897.
RESEARCH AIDSFREE CATALOG
-Thousands of research aids listed
-Each available with footnotes and bibliography
-Lowest prices are GUARANTEED
For a FREE copy of our latest 80-page 
mail-order catalog, send 50 cents (to 
cover postage and handling) to
NA TL RESEARCH BANK
420 N. Palm Dr., Bev. Hills, Cal. 90210 
You must include your zip code.
TELEPHONE: (213) 271-5439
Donner Hall backdrops the Tartans' I-formationPhoto by Courtney Larson

---------------------------------------------------

 V-   i h.  m i  i r%i* i uv^ouu y , nuvui iuci KJ, I ZJ / O
Tartans Make Poor 
Showing In PACs
by Ken Kloes
The cross country team returned to the 
hills of Bethany on Saturday for the PAC 
championships, but found the rugged 
course there less hospitable than before, 
finishing third. Case-Western won its third 
straight conference title with Allegheny 
second.
Greg Dewey paced the Tartans with a 
sixth place finish in 27:58. Tony McKay 
was next for C-MU in seventh place. Ken 
Kloes ran a disappointing thirteenth, some 
2Vi minutes behind his course record time. 
Fred Carlson took twenty-first, and Greg 
Hyatt placed thirty-sixth to give C-MU 
third place overall.
Final team standings were:
1.CWRU26
2. Allegheny65
3. C-MU83
4. John Carroll91
5. Hiram120
6. Thiel165
7. Bethany178
8. W&J195
After the promising seasonunfolding
for the Tartans, the results of the PACs 
were a bit hard to take. As early as last 
May, the team was preparing for this race, 
running literally several thousand miles in 
practice. It was a last shot at cross country 
competition for the seniors; a valuable 
piece of background for other big races for 
the other team members. Where to, now 
that cross country is over for another year? 
Well, track season is only five months 
away.
Tight end Brad Punkois pursued after a reception.Photo by Courtney Larson
r ComingAttractions
Now CMU Presents
STUDENT SENATE 
ELECTIONS
Tuesday and Wednesday, 
November 13 &14
Mike Haupt on his 17-yard interception runback.Photo by John Rose
First Hockey Win 
A Little Tight
by Joe Graves
The C-MU hockey team started its sea
son on the right foot with a hard fought 
3-2 victory over Penn State McKeesport on 
Sunday, October 28 at University Park. 
The game was filled with heavy body 
checks, fast skating and frantic action in 
front of both nets. The keys to the victory 
were the overall team effort and the almost 
unbelievable work of C-MU goaltender Jeff 
Hart. C-MU coach Larry Jacobs used fif
teen players extensively in a show depth 
uncommon in Tartan hockey history.
The Tartans took an early lead on an 
unassisted goal by Rich Eastman. Later in 
the period C-MU took a two goal lead as 
Roger Peterson fired in a rebound with 
assists going to Tom Grimm and Matt 
Goldsmith. Penn State fought back, how
ever, and got on the board with a long shot 
from the point near the end of the period. 
Hart was screened on the play.
Early in the second period the Nittany 
Lions tied the score with a slick play in the
C-MU zone. The score remained knotted 
until about the ten minute mark of the 
final period. At that point Mike Ken
worthy was set up about thirty feet out in 
the slot by Mike Gallaway and Jeff Jacobs. 
Kenworthys slapshot right along the ice 
found the net and provided the winning 
margin. The goal seemed to ignite the Tar
tans as they peppered the Penn State net 
for the next few minutes, but without suc
cess. Before the game ended, however, Hart 
was called on to make at least three key 
saves. He was equal to the task, though, 
and preserved the victory.
Coach Jacobs was elated after the vic
tory but asked the team to take it easy on 
his heart in the future. Someone remarked 
that after three years as coach of C-MU he 
should be used to such close games.
The hockey Tartans open their league 
schedule November 6 against St. Vincent 
College at Greensburg then entertain Gan
non College at Sewickley on the evening of 
November 17 in a non-league contest.
'IlMW III>1*1 mm*111 ii liii'ii V rJMtBfi-1*- rl Hi it nllMOTIHMH

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, November 6, 1973 Page 19
Wild Bunch, Oakland 
Are I.R.A. Champs
I.M. Touch Football  All School Team
by Mike Pochan
The Wild Bunch captured the major 
league 1M football crown by defeating Beta 
Theta Pi, 23-14, thus removing the title 
from the hands of the fraternities, where it 
has traditionally rested for the past several 
years (PiKA for four years and Beta before 
) that).
Beta kicked off the championship tilt, 
and on the second play of the game, Bunch 
quarterback John Shanahan threw a 20 
yard touchdown pass to Bob Atkinson for 
a touchdown. Betas Jim Donnelly 
returned the Bunch kickoff 35 yards but 
poor passing dampened the drive and 
forced a turnover.
| Shanahan hit Starr for a 30 yard gain, 
but fine defense by Dave Cacciamani and 
Denny OConnell stopped the push by the 
Bunch. This forced the Bunch to punt 
within their own twenty yard line. Beta 
blocked the punt and Bob Schulman 
recovered it in the endzone for a 
touchdown.
The Bunchs passing game clicked again 
p as Paul Edwards received for a 35 yard 
gain. But Betas Schulman intercepted a 
pass on his own one-yard line and ran it 
back to the thirty. QB Stu Cedrone 
scrambled 15 more for a first down, then 
fired a pass to Jim Brogan for another Beta 
score.
A low kickoff bounced off a Bunch 
player and was recovered by Betas 
p Donnelly, but the half ended before the 
Red could convert it into another score.
The Beta offense could not move the
ball after receiving the second half kickoff, 
but the Beta defense pressured Shanahan 
into an interception. A pass to Stovicek 
brought Beta within scoring range, but a 
key play by John Waits broke up a sure TD 
pass. A 25-yard loss on an intentional 
grounding handed the Bunch the ball with 
good field position.
A touchdown pass to Paul Edwards was 
knocked down by Bob Schulman, and Beta 
had the ball again.
Cedrone ran to the Bunch ten, but a 
hard rush by Steve Wood handed Beta a 15 
yard loss plus a penalty and returned the 
ball to the Bunch.
Defensive holding gave the Bunch a 
sorely needed first down and on the next 
play, Shanahan chucked a TD pass to Paul 
Edwards for the go-ahead points.
Betas offense was stymied by the 
Bunch defense, and when the Bunch got 
the ball, they moved to the Beta five on a 
pass to Carl Brown and scored on a 
spectacular catch by Paul Edwards.
Beta could not muster a substantial 
drive in the remaining minute, and the 
game ended Bunch 23, Beta 14.
The Oakland Dolphins won the 
Intermediate League championship by 
defeating Scrow 37-13.
Rich Bamburak scored a hat trick, 
catching 2 touchdown passes from Willy 
Frantz. Frantz, the Intermediate MVP, also 
threw tor a pair of scores to Riddel. Ralph 
Domenick caught a pass from Riddel for 
still another TD.
Scrows tallying was done by Gaffney, 
who had a pair of touchdowns.
IM Cross Country
by Mike Pochan
Dirk Kalp, SAEs master chef, captured 
first place in the annual intramural cross 
country race held in Schenley Park. Dirk 
turned in a time of 11:55 representing a 
team dubbed the Dandelions. He was 
followed by Dan Irwin of PLP (12:48),
Tim Laslavic of the Dandelions (14:21), 
and Jim Finkel of PLP (15:44).
In waterpolo action, the Dolphins 
remained undefeated as they edged the K 
squad, a.k.a. Karnegie-Mellon Killers, 4 to 
3 in double overtime. This victory gave the 
Dolphins the water polo championship. 
The Bearded Clams finished third at 4-2.
Major LeagueFirst Team
Offense
Quarterback 
Offensive Back 
Offensive Back 
Center
End
End
Rushers
Linebackers 
Doug Doxsey(PKA) 
Defensive Backs
Most Valuable Player
Quarterback 
Offensive Backs
Ends
Rushers
Linebackers
Defensive Backs
Most Valuable Player
Defense
Steve Rouch(PIKA) 
Mike Wegener (PIKA) 
Starr (Wild Bunch) 
Atkinson (Wild Bunch) 
Doug Doxsey (PIKA) 
Scat (Coachs All-Stars) 
Brown (Wild Bunch)
Tom Wood (PIKA) 
Vic Rogers (PIKA) 
Stan Smith (BTP)
Scat (Coachs All-Stars) 
John Waites (Wild Bunch)
Scat (Coachs All-Stars)
Major League-Second Team
Offense
Defense
John Shanahan (Wild Bunch) 
Jim Brogan (BTP) 
Bill Mayo (Coachs All-Stars) 
Tim Taylor (PIKA) 
Glenn McKeeman (PIKA)
Wood (Wild Bunch) 
Larry Stovicek (BTP) 
Franks (Coachs All-Stars) 
Jim Donnelly (BTP) 
Ed Schenck (PIKA) 
Tim Taylor (PIKA) 
Mike WtgeiierTPlKA)
Atkinson (Wild Bunch) 
Steve Rouch (PIKA)
Intermediate League-First Team
Offense
Quarterback
Center
Blocking Backs 
Ends
Rushers 
Linebackers 
Defensive Backs
Most Valuable Player
Quarterback
Center
Blocking Backs 
Ends
Rushers 
Linebackers 
Defensive Backs
Most Valuable Player
Defense
Frantz (Dolphins) 
Goodfellow (P. Gnurples) 
Arango (McGilldoes) 
Tomastik (Dolphins) 
K. Clark (Red Riders) 
Domenick (Dolphins)
Goodfellow (P. Gnurples) 
Rupnik (Dolphins) 
Treleaven (PIKA) 
Jacobson (Dolphins) 
Frantz (Dolphins) 
Flick (Scrow)
Intermediate LeagueSecond Team
Offense
Defense
Frantz (Dolphins)
Hankey (SN) 
Bamburak (Dolphins) 
Verduin (SN) 
Andrews (Red Death) 
(Gripes) 
List (P. Gnurples)
Jimmers (Red Death) 
Monster (Civ. E.) 
Votilla (Scrow) 
Abraham (McGilldoes 
Clark (Red Riders) 
Hankey (SN)
Hankey (SN)
Ted Harhai launches a pass.Photo by Elliot Arons

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20THE TARTANTuesday, November 6, 1973
Maybe the way to change the world 
is to join a large corporation.
We dont make a lot of noise, but this is where its 
really happening. You see, a large corporation like Kodak has 
the resources and the skill to make this world a little more de
cent place to live. And we intend to do what we can to see 
that this is exactly what happens.
Take our home city, Rochester, New York for exam
ple. We cut water pollution in the Genesee River by using 
natural bacteria to dispose of unnatural wastes. We cut air 
pollution by using electrostatic precipitators in a new com
bustible waste disposal facility. We helped set up a black 
enterprise program in downtown Rochester, and weve been 
experimenting with film as a way to train both teachers and 
students  including some students who wouldnt respond to 
anything else.
And we didnt stop with Rochester. Kodak is involved 
in 47 countries all over the world. Actively involved.
Why? Because its good business. Helping to clean 
the Genesee River not only benefits society... but helps pro
tect another possible source for the clean water we need to 
make our film. Our combustible waste disposal facility not 
only reduces pollution... but just about pays for itself in 
heat and power production and silver recovery. Our black 
enterprise program not only provides an opportunity for the 
economically disadvantaged... but helps stabilize communi
ties in which Kodak can operate and grow. And distributing 
cameras and film to teachers and students not only helps 
motivate the children... but helps create a whole new market.
In short, its simply good business. And were in busi
ness to make a profit. But in furthering our business interests, 
we also further societys interests.
And thats good. After all, our business depends on 
society. So we care what happens to it.
KodakMore than a business.
