January 20, 1972, Volume 72/Number 1
Schatz named Acting President
Edward R. Schatz, vice president for aca
demic affairs at Camegie-Mellon University 
) since 1964, has been named acting president 
of the University. Dr. Schatz will assume the 
duties officially on February 1 when current 
CMU President H. Guyford Stever assumes 
his new position as Director of the National 
Science Foundation in Wshington.
The announcement was made by CMU 
Board Chairman Fred C. Foy following a 
meeting of the board early this week. Mr. 
Foy cited the imminent departure of Dr. 
Schatz as the reason for the announcement 
now. Stating that no successor could possi
bly be found in that time, Mr. Foy said, Dr. 
Schatz has been, in effect, second in com
mand and is very familiar with activities and 
responsibilities of the presidency. The Board 
of Trustees has reached the conclusion that 
he is well qualified to carry on while the 
search continues.
Mr. Foy added that all four of the Presi
dential Search Committees, the Trustees, 
the Academic Search Committee, Alumni 
Search Committee, and Student Search 
Committee concur in the naming of Dr. 
Schatz as acting president.
Dr. Schatz, 50, has been at CMU as stu
dent, faculty member, and administrator 
since 1939. He received B.S., M.S., and D.Sc.
WP-PIRG EMERGES
A group of Carnegie-Mellon students are 
in the process of establishing a chapter of 
PIRG on the campus. WP-PIRG (Wstern 
Pennsylvania Public Interest Research 
Group) is an independent, non-profit, non
partisan group of professionals working with 
students and faculty to represent public con
cerns. The program will be student financed 
and student directed. The original idea for 
PIRG was set forth by Ralph Nader, and 
such programs already exist in Oregon, Min
nesota, Vermont, and Wshington, D.C. 
WP-PIRG will be modeled after these other 
programs but will maintain its indepen
dence.
WP-PIRG will be a regional program rep
resenting the interests of students and other 
citizens in the Wstern Pennsylvania area. 
The staff of 10-15 professionals will be su
pervised by an Executive Director and in
clude lawyers, natural and social scientists, 
engineers, and other experts on the applied 
sciences. The general areas of Wst Penn 
PIRG concern will include consumer pro
tection, occupational safety, environmental 
quality, resource planning, racial and sexual 
discrimination, landlord/tenant relations, 
delivery of health care, and matters relating 
to the ecnomic and social welfare of the 
people of Wstern Pennsylvania. They will 
present their work through public educa
tional programs and consumer information. 
They will work with legislatures and existing 
administrative and regulatory agencies. And 
when necessary, they will be able to take 
court action.
Students and faculty will be needed to 
support and work with the professional 
staff. Students will do research and gather 
large quantities of information. It is hoped 
that some of this can be coordinated with 
course work or arranged as independent 
study projects. Students will gain experience
degrees from the University and served as an 
instructor, assistant professor, associate pro
fessor and in 1961 was named professor of 
electrical engineering.
His first administrative post at the Uni
versity was as assistant head of the depart
ment of electrical engineering from 1953 to 
1957. From 1957 to 1960 he served as assist
ant dean of the College of Engineering and 
Science, was associate dean in 1960-61, dean 
of research from 1961-64, and was named 
vice president for academic affairs by then 
Presidenti. C. W&rner.
Dr. Schatz is a senior member of the 
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engi
neering, and holds memberships in the 
American Society for Engineering Educat
ion, Instrument Society of America, and the 
American Institute of Electrical Engineers in 
which he has held several offices.
He is a past recipient of the Carnegie 
Teaching Award and an Award of Merit 
from the Camegie-Mellon Alumni Associa
tion.
Locally, Dr. Schatz is on the Board of 
Driectors of the First Federal Savings and 
Loan Association of Pittsburhg, of the MPC 
Corporation and a member of the Scientific 
Research Advisory Group of the Regional 
Industrial Development Corporation.
AT CMU
in gathering and correlating information, 
drafting new programs and legislative pro
posals, and gaining insights into the struc
ture and functioning of many agencies and 
corporations. Faculty members will be need
ed to head research teams, provide informa
tion in their specialized fields, and advise 
students on the functioning and managing of 
WP-PIRG.
The survival of WP-PIRG depends upon a 
sound financial base which will be provided 
for by the students. There are approximate
ly 100,000 students in the 50 colleges of 
Wstern Pennsylvania. These studetns will 
be asked to donate $2 each semester. Ob
viously everyone will not support it, but if 
only half contribute, it will be enough 
money to finance the proposed $200,000 
yearly budget. The mechanisms for the col
lection of funds at Camegie-Mellon are still 
under consideration, and will not necessarily 
be the same procedure followed by the other 
universities in the area.
Each of the 50 colleges in the area will 
have an elected campus board of students. 
Depending on the size of the campus, one to 
five of these students will be elected to the 
regional Board of Directors. The regional 
board will work with the Executive Director 
to establish priorities and oversee the work.
WP-PIRG will only be as strong as the 
students, faculty, and other citizens of Wst
ern Pennsylvania make it. PIRG is only in 
the process of being established, and wel
comes criticisms and suggestions to revise 
and expand some of the ideas and programs. 
WP-PIRG has a fantastic potential to affect 
public concerns, but it needs help from all 
elements of the CMU community. Write to 
Box 28, CMU with suggestions or criticisms, 
for more information, or to donate some of 
your time.
The Selective Service System recently re
leased a list of proposed changes in their 
regulations which will affect young men 
facing the draft process in the future. The 
:hangeswhich were first proposed to the 
public for review in early November and 
now are amended after further studycon
cern procedures for personal appearances 
and appeals, among other major subjects. 
The proposed changes are expected to be
come effective throughout the more than
4,000 local draft boards in mid-February. 
Until they become effective, Selective Ser
vice will continue its moratorium policy on 
all personal appearances and appeal board 
actions.
One of the major changes proposed 
guarantees the registrants right to request 
an appeal following an adverse decision at 
his personal appearance with his local board. 
Another proposed change allows a registrant 
who receives a long postponement of induc
tion to receive consideration from his local 
board for deferment and exemption re
quests, including a claim for conscientious 
objector status. The revisions published set a 
15-day time limit in which a registrant must 
request a personal appearance or an appeal, 
but they permit the local board to grant an 
extension of this period when a registrant 
demonstrates that his failure to respond 
within the 15-day limit was due to reasons 
beyond his control. The policy proposal that 
a local board give a registrant at least 15 days 
notice of a pending personal appearance 
with the board, the state appeal board, or 
the Presidential appeal board, also was re
tained.
Commenting on the 15-day time limit, 
Draft Director Curtis W. Tarr said : Al
though we have shortened the time limit for 
personal appearance and appeal requests 
from a rigid non-extendable 30 days to a 
flexible 15 days, we also have added the 
requirement that local boards give regis
trants at least 15 days notice of pending 
appearances or actions. Thus, no local board 
or appeal board will be taking action in less 
time than has been reuqired under the old 
regulations. Then, as now, at least 30 days 
will pass before any action will take place 
following the mailing of the Notice of Classi
fication card to the registrant.
The package of regulations published was 
the second major group of changes released 
in recent weeks by Selective Service head
quarters. The major portion of these changes 
was first proposed to the public in early 
November and then effected throughout the 
System in early December.
The changes put into effect on December
10 included the phasing out of all new un
dergraduate student deferments, an increase 
in the time given registrants who receive 
induction orders (from 10 to 30 days), the 
establishment of classification 1-H as a new 
administrative holding category, and a major 
revision of the procedures and guidelines of 
the alternate service program for 1-0 con
scientious objectors.
FACULTY SENATE 
SEARCH PARTY
The Academic Search Committee (ASC) 
was formed last month through the com
bined efforts of the Faculty Senate and the 
Board of Trustees, to select a new President 
for CMU. The ASC, discussed at the last 
Senate meeting, will be made up of all aca
demic deans (except GSIA) and a represen
tative group of faculty.
The ASC was fromed because of the un
satisfactory process used to select a presi
dent in 1963-64. Evidently, there were two 
advisory groups-one of deans, one of six 
faculty members-and neither formally com
municated to the other what work had been 
accomplished.
The ASC will select and endorse a final 
candidate for the presidency, independent 
of the Faculty Senate, unless the Committee 
is unable to come up with a candidate. In 
this case, the Committee would have failed. 
The Senate will not have veto power, be
cause, as was said at the Senate meeting, 
The Committee must maintain a confidentiallity which preludes full disclosure and 
accountability to the Senate. It has been 
made very clear, however, that the final de
cision of the committee will be acceptable to 
the faculty. The president will be chosen on 
criteria developed by a sub-committe of the 
Planning Council which will be communica
ted to the ASC.
Although the group was thought to be 
large to the point of reducing efficiency, the 
Chair assured the Senators that the members 
were chosen because of their geographical 
proximity and their history of working to
gether toward common goals. A large group 
was found necessary to be representative of 
the strength of the faculty. After much dis
cussion, an amendment was added, then 
modified, deeming it necessary that the ASC 
Consult with any other search committees 
on the presidency that are established.
peers
A group of students sensed a need for an 
alternative to the existing counseling ser
vices on this campus. Wfe felt that there were 
students who did not wish to talk to a pro
fessional counselor who would like to talk 
with someone on a more informal basis. Wfe 
believe that fellow students are potentially 
comfortable, understanding, and helpful 
people with whom to talk.
After exploring how to best provide such 
a service, we began to operate from a room 
in Baker Hall. Wfe are willing to talk with 
people who come into the office or call, and 
are prepared to respond immediately to 
crisis situations-a bad trip or any other per
sonal emergency. There is someone in the 
office after 6 PM and during most of the day. 
Please feel free to come in or to call at any 
time. Wfe are located in Baker Hall 150-A and 
the phone number is 687-7414.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2 -Tartan, Thursday, January 20, 1972
Letters:
EDITOR'S NOTE:
Dear Friend of a Victim:
We are unable to publish your letter due 
to the possibility of our involving ourselves 
in libel proceedings. If, however, you will 
furnish us with your name, we will print 
your letter.
Editor:
H&SS students are presently concerned 
about altering the present Honors/Credit/No Enentry grading system. If it is estab
lished that H/C/NE does, infact, impede en
trance into graduate schools due to its non
conformity and its inability to be evaluated 
by a computer, there does exist an alterna
tive to conventional grading. A modified 
Mastery System of grading might be institu
ted as an alternative.
Under the Mastery System a minimum 
standard of achievement is predetermined 
for the course. Upon fulfilling these set cri
teria a student achieves B work. If the 
student fails to adequately complete any 
area of course material, she/he earns a No 
entry grade. He/she may take the exam (or 
papers) a second time without penalty. No 
thi attempt is provided for, as a heavy 
br en would be placed on faculty to devise 
rous retakes.
Janu completion of work at the set criievel earns the student a B. Failure is 
;dered No entry. At the professors 
etion, a student who does outstanding 
or extra work may receive an A
e the Honors/Credit/No entry system 
istery System places emphasis on the 
iuals learning of course material, it 
phasizes inter-student competition 
ncourages cooperation, it eliminates 
xieties evoked by traditional grading 
ds, and it does not recognize F or 
rades. Also, upon the students re
written evaluations could be provided 
llty. Unlike our present system, it 
traditional letter grades (A, B, NE) 
)vides quantifiable information for
3 schools.
lse of its flexibility the Mastery 
may well solve our special problems.
Mina Gerall
unusually upset when I attended 
ing of the last of the AB film series, 
segment of Space Soldiers ConUniverse was not shown. I underere were only 14 chapters to the 
tumber 13 was repeated for week 
t the final part could be shown 
This was not done. Flash Gordon is 
ation to conquer the evils in my life 
equently, without his final victory, 
X of my finals, for I do worry that 
;ht get Flash and his omnipotent 
the midst of my anguish, I do have 
iliment to offer, the director made 
dicious choice for the theme song : 
udes by Liszt ( Symphonic Poem
ly hope if the AB assumes any more 
bilities I cannot fulfill, that it makes 
s before finals.
... ling finals and superfluous allit. remain,
FGs one-member fan club
Editor:
It is to be hoped that the coming search 
for a new president for Carnegie-Mellon Uni
versity will receive and welcome suggestions 
from students, faculty, administrators, 
trustees, and alumni.
In this spirit the following names are res
pectfully recommended to be considered for 
the position :
Robert Carter, Esq.
Dr. John R. Coleman, President 
Haverford College
Dean Richard My. Cyert 
GSIA
Norman Dorsen, Esq.
New York University School of Law
Ms. Gail Falk
The Honorable Marion Finkelhor 
Court of Common Pleas of 
Allegheny County
Ms. Patricia Roberts Harris 
former Dean, Howard University School 
of Law and US Ambassador to 
Luxemburg; US Alternate Delegate 
to 21st and 22nd General Assemblies 
of the United Nations
K. Leroy Irvis 
Majority Leader 
House of Representatives 
Commonwealth of Pa.
Commissioner Mary Gardiner Jones 
Federal Trade Commission
Sister M. Adele Meiser, OSF
Administrator
St. Francis General Hospital
The Honorable Constance Baker Motley 
United States District Court 
Southern District of New York
Dr. William W. Mullins 
Office of the Vice President for 
Academic Affairs 
CMU
Ms. Eleanor Holmes Norton 
Executive Director 
City of New York Commission on 
Human Relations
Ms. Barbara Scott Preiskel 
Motion Picture Association 
of America, Inc.
Edward R. Schatz
Vice President for Academic
Affairs, CMU
Sister Jane Scully, SM.
President Carlow College
Ms. Faith Seidenberg
Ms. Jacquelyn Wexler 
President
Hunter College of the City 
University of New York
Dr. Marina Whitman 
Professor of Economics 
University of Pittsburgh
Editor:
We would like to bring to your attention 
the latest undertaking of the Donner Hall 
3rd floor west organization. Our group has 
initiated many new and unique conventions; 
we were the first to print up personel 
invitations and distribute them to randomly 
and carefully selected girls in the streets of 
Pittsburgh, asking them to come and enjoy 
our floor party. We are the only floor wing 
to claim Richard Forshner as counselor; that 
senior who continually amazes us with his 
skills and knowledge and who has had a 
profanity forshner-you! named after him.
More specifically, we wish to announce 
the bestowal of our newly created Donner 
Hall 3rd floor west Special Award. We have 
invented this award to honor the teacher 
who can be as unique and orginal as we like 
to think the members of our organization 
are. This semester, the award was presented 
jointly to Dr. William T. Oosterhuis, Assis
tant Professor of Physics and to Dr. Richard 
Allen Moore, Associate Head of the Depart
ment of Mathematics.
The award itself had to display the 
unique qualities we wished to extol. After 
long deliberation and careful planning, we 
decided to appropriate a highway speed sign, 
the fifty-mile-per-hour variety measuring 
four feet by five feet. This, neatly wrapped 
in brown paper decorated with appropraite 
insignia was given to the instructors one 
morning in their Phys-Cal I lecture.
As before, we have proven our ability to 
do something original and unique on a cam
pus plagued by uniformity and conser
vatism.
Donner Hall 3rd Floor Wfest Organization
Editor:
YOUTH CITY, a drug prevention and 
community education program that believes 
in building with a heart, wishes to sincerely 
thank the Tech Christian Fellowship of 
CMU for having a heart to go out into the 
streets of Pittsburgh from house to house to 
solicite toys, food, and clothing for the 
needy for Christmas.
Plus we also want to thank the students 
and faculty who contributed to this great 
cause.
From all of us here at YOUTH CITY we 
extend you a warm welcome to visit us or 
call if you are looking for others with heart 
to rap at anytime.
304 Ross Street 
4th Floor 
281-4132
Bill ONeill 
Director: YOUTH CITY
Yours very truly, 
Thomas MJC err 
Lecturer
Industrial Administration and Law
Editor:
Wfed like to express our special thanks to 
everyone who made the Camegie-Mellon 
Bangla Desh Benefit Concert of last week
end possible. Wfe collected $879.50 which 
will soon be on its way to The Ananda Marga 
Universal Relief Team in India.
Wfe are most appreciatively grateful to 
our publicity, stage, sound and lighting 
crews; to the Pittsburgh Bhangra Group; to 
the musicians of Blugrass and Manassas; and 
to our beautiful audience. Thank you, and 
Namascar.
The Ananda Marga Yoga Society
Co-Editors-in-Chief .... Pete Georgiades
Jan Rosen
News Editor..............................Frank Cox
Features Editor . . . ...............TomDavis
Sports Editor .............................Jude Heller
Graphics..............................Mark Seymour
Photography Editor .............Neal Binstock
Business Manager......................Alice Bright
Paste-up.................................Arnold Sonn
News Staff...........................JohnAgatston
Renee Banks, Nate Burden 
Grace D'Alo, Anne Friedman 
Steve Jurman, Jon Manon 
Bob Stern, Marilyn Turner 
Sylvia Wilson
Features Staff . . . Leslie Bram, Mark Field 
John Gross, Walter Koehler 
Ron Lasser, Terence N. Palso 
Stephen Saunders
Political Commentary ........................Janet
Caroline Levine 
Sports Staff . . . David Aber, Chuck Bond 
Lauren Hutton, Allen Kohan 
Peter Schuller, Jon Swierzewski
Photography Staff ..................Eliot Arons
Jay Caras, Ed Levine 
Copy Staff . . Leslie Bram, Marilyn Shenker 
Business Staff Eugene Kerekes, Mary Lipsett 
Chris Sanders, Mike Swartzlander
Published every Thursday during the aca
demic year at Carnegie-Mellon University, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial 
and Business offices in Skibo 50, CarnegieMellon University. Telephone (412) 
682-4557.

---------------------------------------------------

Tartan, Thursday, January 20,1972 - Page 3
Announcements:
NOTICE TO ENGINEERING AND
SCIENCE STUDENTS: The last day to add 
courses in the spring term is Monday, Janu
ary 31,1972. The last day to drop courses is 
Friday, March 10. Full-time students must 
carry 36 units minimum (except in the case 
of some seniors).
After March 10 and until April 28, over
load courses may be dropped by submitting 
the drop slip and a petition to the College 
Councils in Scaife Hall 110. An overload 
course is defined as a course scheduled in 
addition to the courses normally taken in a 
given semester. Thus a required course is not 
an overload just because it is part of a 57 unit 
schedule.
Dr. William McTaggart, assistant profes
sor of English at CMU, will lecture on the 
poetry of Shelley Tuesday, Jan. 25, at 11:30 
AM in Breefl Hall in Margaret Morrison.
The lecture, titled "The Outward Sign", 
is a memorial lecture on the sesquicentennial 
of Shelley's death. It is free and open to the 
public.
Dr. McTaggart is currently working with 
another Shelley scholar, Dr. Neville Rogers, 
on the Oxford edition of Shelley's poetry. 
As a Fulbright scholar to Wadham College, 
Oxford University in 1968-69, he did exten
sive research on Shelley manuscripts and his 
study of one of Shelley's minor poems, "A 
Ballad, was published as the first in a series 
of monographs by the Keats Shelley Memor
ial Association of England. Last summer Dr. 
McTaggart delivered a Keats Shelley Memor
ial Association lecture at Keats House in 
London.
In discussing the lecture Dr. McTaggart 
said it will be of broad interest to those 
interested in poetry and literature and that it 
will not be a scholarly appraisal of Shelley's
work.
Dr. McTaggart has been a member of the 
CMU faculty since 1969. He is a graduate of 
West Virginia Wesleyan College and Ohio 
University where he received the master of 
arts and doctor of philosophy degrees.
The 3rd Annual CMU Film Festival is being
planned now. A basic meeting for anyone 
interested in working with us will be held 
Tuesday, Jan. 25, in Room 39 Skibo, at 4:30 
PM. If you have any thoughts about this 
event, or what it could be, please share them.
Adjustments to schedules made neces
sary by illness or other factors beyond the 
students' control may be made by petition 
to College Council at any time before April 
28th. The dates given above are the dates on 
which the required forms must be in the 
Dean's Office, Scaife Hall 110.
Applications for the Vira I. Heinz Award are
now available in the Financial aid office, 210 
Warner Hall. This grant, established in 1967, 
will enable a woman student to travel and 
study abroad between her junior and senior 
years. The purpose of this $1,500 award "is 
to have an articulate and perceptive young 
lady gain first-hand knowledge of interna
tional understanding and share her ex
perience with other members of the college 
community upon her return for her senior 
year." Junior women interested in being 
considered for this award must submit an 
application to the Financial Aid Office by 
February 15, 1972. A winner and three al
ternates will be selected and announced later 
ln February. The application includes sec
tions on itinerary, budget, courses of study, 
and reasons for desiring to participate in the 
Program. Financial need will not beacriteron. However, if it becomes a factor, the 
applicant should discuss the situation with 
the Director of Financial Aid.
The Physical Education Department is offer
ing Karate classes through the CMU Karate 
Club which meets in Thistle Hall in the 
Gymnasium Building twice a week-Thursday 6:30 PM to 8:30 PM and Saturday 1:30 
PM to 3:30 PM. Classes will begin on Thurs
day, January 20.
Junior and senior women college students in
25 Pittsburgh and surrounding area colleges 
have been invited to participate in the Wom
en's Press Club of Pittsburgh 17th annual 
student journalism competition Saturday, 
January 22 at 10:30 AM at the Pittsburgh 
Post-Gazette editorial offices. The competi
tion, a memorial to Gertrude Gordon, pio
neer newpaper woman in Pittsburgh, offers 
three cash awards, a first prize of one hun
dred dollars and an honorable mention prize 
of twenty-five dollars, and the Grayce Latus 
Award of fifty dollars. Awards are based on 
the best story written by contestants follow
ing an interview with an interesting personal
ity. This year the students will interview 
members of the cast of NO, NO, NANETTE, 
currently playing in Pittsburgh. Awards will 
be presented at the Women's Press Club's 
81st anniversary celebration February 11. 
To enter, Pick up an entry form at the TAR
TAN office, room 50 Skibo.
The Finance Committee of Student Senate
announces that all proposed budgets for the 
fiscal year 1972-73 will be due at the Skibo 
Information Desk, no later than Friday, 
February 18,1972.
Black Women in a Racist Society" will
be discussed by Dr. Jacquelyne Jackson, 
Associate Professor of Medical Sociology, 
Department of Psychiatry at Duke Uni
versity, in the Tuesday Reports, sponsored 
by the Maurice Falk Medical Fund. Dr. Jack
son will speak Tuesday, January 24 at 4 PM 
in the Lecture Hall, Graduate School of 
Public Health, University of Pittsburgh. The 
lecture, free and open to the public, will be 
followed by an informal reception.
The lecture series is being presented by 
the Fund to introduce some of its grantees 
to the Pittsburgh community. The speakers 
are the authors and editors of "Racism and 
Mental Health," a forthcoming book of the 
Fund. The lectures are presented each Tues
day trhough March 28.
Ad rates for campus groups raised to $1.00
per column inch due to the increase in 
column width.
The 1972 Competition of the James A. Fin
negan Fellowship Foundation will open on 
New Year's Day and close on Wednesday, 
March 1, 1972, it was announced in Harris
burg today. Winners in this thirteenth an
nual competition, open to all Pennsylvania 
college students interested in governmental 
or political careers, will receive paid summer 
internships in governmental or political of
fices. Two principal awards will be made: 
one, the annual James A. Finnegan Award 
and the other, the annual David L. Lawrence 
Award. Cash prizes and help in summer 
placement as governmental or political party 
trainees will be provided for other finalists.
All entries must be on application forms 
provided by the Foundation and completed 
and returned before March 1, 1972. Re
quests for application forms should be sent 
immediately to the James A..Finnegan Fellowhsip Foundation, PO Box 314, Harris
burg, Pa. 17108.
The National Touring company of the
Broadway musical hit "No, No, Nanette" 
will come to Pittsburgh, opening Tuesday 
evening January 18th at 8:30 PM. It will be 
the fourth attraction on the Theatre GuildAmerican Theatre Society Subscription 
Series.
Headed by film star June Allyson, the 
glittering cast includes Dennis Day, Judy 
Canova, Sandra Deel and Jerry Antes and an 
ensemble of 75 singers, dancers and musi
cians. The big production opened at the 
Hanna Theatre in Cleveland Monday, Dec
ember 27th to rave notices.
The Pittsburgh engagement is for four 
weeks only, with all evenings at 8:30 PM, a 
Wednesday matinee at 2:00 PM and Satur
days at 2:30 PM. There will be one extra 
matinee on Sunday, January 23rd at 2:30 
PM and this will be the only such extra 
matinee during the run here.
Alvin Toffler, auther of the best-seller
"Future Shock," will speak in the Duquesne 
University Union ballroom on Tuesday, Jan. 
25, at 8 PM, sponsored by the union's forum 
committee.
"Future Shock" deals with the effect of 
high-speed change in today's society on such 
sacred institutions as marriage, the family 
and work. Mr. Toffler is considered an 
authority on the revolutionary changes oc
curring in society. His book shows the 
dilemma of man confronted by the altera
tion of society. Mr. Toffler's talk is free and 
open to the public.
Paintings, drawings, sculpture, and foam and
wood assemblages will be on view at the 
CMU Students' Gallery January 21 through 
February2. The Gallery is located at 5200 
Forbes Ave. arid is open to the public.
The exhibit includes the work of three 
juniors in the department of painting and 
sculpture. Represented are William Janosco, 
Martha Angus, and Mark Mentzer.
The Gallery is open Monday through 
Friday from 11 'AM to 8 PM and Saturday 
and Sunday from 11 to 6 PM. The Gallery is 
operated by the students of CMU and shows 
exclusively the work of CMU students.
Israeli Film festival Saturday and Sunday 8
PM, Pitt Student Union Ballroom: "The 
Siege", "The Dress", "Lupo", "Every Bas
tard a King". Israeli food included, admis
sion $1.00.
Beginning with the Spring term 1972, two
new elective possibilities for full time under
graduate students enrolled in CMU will be 
available through the Extension Division of 
the Music, Department. Appropriate fees will 
be charged. 57-105 Music Technique Laboratory-a weekly class, one hour in length 
in Elementary instrumental or vocal tech
nique. Designed for non-advanced students. 
Minimum of four students in each class. 
Pass/fail only, 3 credits-fee $35. Saturday 
mornings by arrangement. 57-107,108 Mus
ic Technique Elective-a weekly private les
son, one half hour in length in instrumental 
or vocal technique.' For the student with 
background skills. Grade or Pass/fail privi
leges. 6 units credit--fee $70. Saturday 
mornings by appointment.
All prospective students should apply to 
the Music Department office, CFA 105 on 
the day(s) of registration at the beginning of 
a given semester. Audition times and places, 
to be held during the first week of the seme
ster, will be posted. Proof of ability and/or 
seriousness of intenet must be demonstrated 
before committees in the various specializa
tions. These listening bodies will be formed 
from the college level and Extension 
Division faculties. Appropriate assignments 
will be approved by the Music Department 
and coordinated by the Extension Division. 
Practice facilities and instrument ownership 
are normally the responsibility of the stu
dent.
Alpha Phi Omega would like to apologize to
everyone who paid to ride the Thanksgiving 
Shuttle bus and did not receive a ride or a 
refund. Anyone desiring a refund should 
address a short note to A Phi O, Box 100, 
CMU giving his name and address. You will 
receive a refund in the mail.
The Women's Association of the Pittsburgh
Plan for Art is sponsoring a unique film 
series produced by Universal Studios 
entitled "Museum without Walls" to be 
shown at the Winchester-Thurston auditor
ium in Shadyside. Each of the five two-hour 
programs will be shown twice each week, 
Tuesday and Thursday evenings at 8:15 PM 
beginning January 25th and 27th and run
ning through February 22nd and 24th. The 
series includes films on Picasso, Goya, 
Giotta, Le Corbusier, Crete and Mycenae, 
the Greek Temple, the Impressionists, the 
Cubist Epoch and the Germany-Dada nar
rated by such well known personalities as 
Edward G. Robinson and Ricardo 
Montalban. For information about tickets 
call the Pittsburgh Plan for Art, 362-1234. 
Student tickets are available at the informa 
tion desk for $5 for the series.
Ralph Hotchkiss, director of the Center for
concerned engineering, will speak on 
"Careers in the Public interest" Friday 
January 25th, at 11:30 in Doherty Hall 
2210. The Center for Concerned Engineer
ing is a non-profit organization A/orking un
der the guidance of Ralph Nader and is 
directed by Ralph Hatchkiss, engineer and 
co-author of "What to do with your bad car: 
an action manual for lemon owners."
You're a Good Man, Charlie Brown/' the
musical comedy featuring those delightful 
comic strip characters from Charles Schulz's 
"Peanuts," opens a three-week run at Twin 
Coaches Theatre Jan. 19. A preview perfor
mance, with special reduced rates is sche
duled for Jan. 18.
The Twin Coaches show can be seen Wed
nesdays through Saturdays at 8:30 PM and 
Sundays at 7 PM through Feb. 6. Group 
rates are available.
Chess Club meeting room 45 Skibo 1:30 PM,
Sunday, January 23. Come and discuss: 
"Should we join Western Pa. Intercollegiate 
Chess League?"
A list of opportunities still available to facul
ty members for university lecturing and 
postdoctoral research abroad under the 
senior Fulbright-Hays program for 1972-73 
has just been issued by the Committee on 
International Exchange of Persons (2101 
Constitution Ave., Washington, DC 20418). 
The list may be consulted at the office of the 
faculty Fulbright adviser, Dean Milligan, 
207 Warner Hall. Inquiries will be welcomed 
by the Committee, and eligible faculty mem
bers may apply for specific appointments as 
long as they remain unfilled.
Classified Ads-.
Compact refrigerators, bicycles (folding),
sewing machines, typewriters, and desks for 
rent. Call 279-7951 after 6 PM.
Tenor recorder, New. price negotiable. Call
Lumpy. 621-4030 ext. 142.
People needed to silk screen for Spring Car
nival Publicity. If interested, please contact: 
Anne Witchner (682-8892) or Dorika 
Stacho (682-8888).

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4 -Tartan, Thursday, January 20, 1972
Announcements, contd.
WANTED: Typist. Tartan needs a part-time
typist to type(obviously). $2.00/hour. In
quire TARTAN office. Room 50, Skibo.
Department of Architecture: Faculty ex
hibition. Hewlett Gallery. College of Fine 
Arts. January 12-27.
Films: Television. Why Man Creates: Sun
day January 23rd, Saul Bass, 9:30 AM, 
KDKA, Channel 2.
First Revolutionary Alliance meeting of
the Semester. Everybody welcome - 
Monday, Janurary 24 4:30, Room 46 
Skibo.
films:
CMU CAMPUS:
BEDAZZLED: Film Arts. Thursday,
January 20th, 4:30, 7:00. 9:30 PM. Porter 
Hall 100. Admission: Film Arts Ticket.
STAG 40'S: Activities Board. Friday Jan
uary 21st, 7:00, 9:15 PM. DH 2210.
TOPAZ: MDC, Saturday, January 22nd, 
5:30, 8:00, 10:30 PM. DH 2210. Admis
sion .free.
CHATHAM:
EXPERIMENTAL FILMS: A Glittering 
Song (12 min.), Thinoceros (1.1 min.), The 
Fat and the Lean (15 min.). La Jetee (27 
min.), 21-87 (9 min.), Off-On (7 min.), and 
"A (10 min.). Sunday, January 23, C 135, 
2:00 PM. Admission free.
WOMEN IN LOVE:(Ken Russell, based on 
the novel by D.H. Lawrence). Monday, 
January 24, C. 135. Two screenings: 7:00 
and 9:30 PM. Admission 50 cents.
ORPHANS OF THE STORM: (Griffith), 
Thursday, January 27, C 135 8:00 PM, Ad
mission free.
stever
!ion:
On November 1st, 1971 at a meeting with 
the Wbmen of CMU, President Stever an
nounced the formation of a monitoring 
committee to advance affirmative action for 
women on this campus. The Committee con
sists of the following members : StudentsElly Finger, J oan K ovalic; Staff-Tricia 
Carlson, Irene Daugherty, J oan Velar; Faculty-Helen Borke, Peggy Sanday.
The goals of the Committee are the fol
lowing : to monitor the writing of the Uni
versitys Affirmative Action Plan to insure 
equality for women; encourage recruitment 
of women students, faculty and administra
tors; support academic programs of interest 
to women.
If people have any suggestions about pos
sible areas which the Monitoring Committee 
should consider, please contact one of the 
members.
CHALLENGING POSITIONS
in Manufacturing, Research & Develop
ment, and Sales are available with FMC 
CHEMICALS.
Our Recruiter will be on campus
FEBRUARY 3, 1972 
to interview Seniors and Graduates in
CHEMICAL ENGINEERING
FMC CHEMICALS
Putting ideas to Work in 
Machinery * Chemicals * Defense * Fibers & Films 
An Equal Opportunity Employer
tartan
needs an Entertainment Editor 
to coordinate coverage & reviews 
of concerts, films, plays, etc., 
as well as album reviews & night 
spots. Interested? Contact the 
Tartan office, Room 50 Skibo, 
or call 682-4557, 10:30 to 
4:30 Daily.
FREE PROFESSIONAL 
DRAFT COUNSELING
B'NAI B'RITH HILLEL FOUNDATION 
315 South Bellefield Avenue 
3rd Floor
Every Tuesday Evening
7:00 to 9:00 p.m.
621-8875
Now youre on your way up.
Some people think getting to the 
top means scaling skyscrapers.
At Hoover, the top is on the 
fourth floor. Of a neat brick build
ing. On tree-lined streets. In a 
quiet town. Where the air is fresh. 
And the horizon is sky.
Thats where youd start.
But not necessarily where 
youd stay.
Hoover has 13 plants in 8 coun
tries on 5 continents.
Two-thirds of the ^ .^ 
21,000 Hoover people 
work outside U.S.A. ^
You dont have to go. j 
You might stay at 
Hoovers home office. Go 
into marketing, finance, 
manufacturing, engineer
ing. Take graduate courses 
at the local colleges and
(To about the 68th floor.)
university.
Or you might go to one of 
Hoover's 200 Field Offices. And 
learn how we move over 80 differ
ent home products.
Whatever you do, youll grow 
fast. Youll have to. Just to keep 
up. Hoover s a fast growing com
pany.^
First half sales in 71 were 
up 14%.
The year before 
wasnt a bad year, either. 
In 1970, Hoovers total 
,^net sales were over $346 
^ million.
So, if you want to go 
up, go down to your place
ment office.
Sign up for an inter
view. Well be on campus January 2bth.

---------------------------------------------------

Tartan, Thursday, January 20,1972 - Page 5
Student President Search Needs Fine Arts Rep.
Jon Manon
Toward the end of becoming more tho
roughly representative of the various cam
pus interests, the student search committee 
for a new president for CMU would like to 
add to its membership a student from the 
College of Fine Arts. The committees chair
man, Willie Thompson, suggests that fine 
arts students interested in joining the search 
committee contact him via campus exten
sion 214.
The student search committee has re
ceived little publicity to date, but since it is 
in fact designed to represent the student 
bodys interests in the selection of a new 
president for this university, a review of its 
constitution and history seems appropriate. 
The committee as now constituted is a direct 
descendant of a student senate ad hoc search 
committee given birth at the November 16 
meeting fo the Student Senate. At that 
meeting, mens dormitory senator Wllie 
Thompson made a motion that, in light of 
Dr. Stevers impending exodus, the student 
senate appoint a student ad hoc search com
mittee. His motion was passed and the com
mittee was immediately selected from 
amongst senator volunteers. The member
ship of the ad hoc search committee as estab
lished at that meeting included Dennis 
Brandi, Ellis Cohen, Sally Foss,J im Naughton, Dale Seim, Ed Stoker, and Marilyn Tur
ner, with initiator Thompson being appoint
ed to chair the committee.
Shortly after the inception of the STudent Senates ad hoc search committee, the 
Board of Trustees, with which the ultimate 
choice of President Stevers successor re
sides, sanctioned the formation of official 
trustee, alumni, faculty, and student search 
committees. This knowledge was communi
cated to Vincent Misitano, then president of 
the Student Senate, and it was decided that 
the senate ad hoc search committee just 
formed was to be in essence deemed the 
official student search committee. In order
I dont think coal miners should have to 
go to work every day not knwoing if theyll 
make it out alive.
Simply and eloquently, folksinger Pete 
Seeger explained why he is performing a 
benefit concert for rank-and-file coal miners 
in Pittsburgh this Friday, Jan. 21.
The concert will be at Carnegie Music 
Hall on Frobes Ave. at 8 15 p.m. Its open to 
the public and some tickets are still available 
at Kaufmanns, Hornes, Gimbles and the 
Pitt Student Union ticket office.
Ive travelled through the coalfields 
many times and have always sung coal 
mining and labor songs, Seeger said. The 
concert on the 21st is a chance to do some
thing to help one of the most important 
movements in the country.
Seeger said he wrote to the rank-and-file 
miners newspaper, the Miners Voice, vo
lunteering his aid.
Coal miners are some of the finest and 
bravest people you can find. Their fight for 
better ehalth and safety conditions should 
concern all of us. More than 700 men have 
died since the Farmington disaster and more 
than 100,000 have died since 1900, the 
folksinger said.
Seeger is well-known not only for his 
folksinging and commitment to workers, 
but also for his continuing crusade for a 
better environment. He has recently ttavelled up and down the Hudson River, mobili
zing citizens concerned about water pollu
tion.
He has recorded more than sixty LPs for 
Columbia Records, Folkways, and other 
labels. Many experts credit Seeger with the 
current revival of folk music.
"People are searching for roots in a world 
f chaotic change, Seeger said. To find 
rots, you go back to the beginning.
to make the student search committee more 
representative, an inconspicuous announce
ment soliciting volunteers for that commit
tee appeared in the December 9 issue of the 
TARTAN. Chairman Thompson revealed 
that this announcement was purposefully 
made obscure so that only truly zealous 
individuals would apply for membership. As 
a result of this appeal for additional repre
sentatives, J erry Glaser and Grace DAlo 
joined the ranks fo the student search com
mittee.
Sometime this week, the student search 
committee will choose two of its members 
to sit upon an ombudsman committee com
posed of equal membership from the trus
tee, alumni, faculty, and student search 
committees. This ombudsman committee 
will review candidates suggested by the dif
ferent search groups.
To date, the student search group has 
concentrated on defining the responsibilities 
and consequent optimal characteristics of a 
CMU president. In a session with President 
Stever, committee members tried to get a 
feel for the duties and rigors of that office. A 
sub-committee chaired byJ erry Glaser has 
drawn up a report as to the general qualities 
though desirable in our next president. A 
copy of that report appears in this issue of 
the TARTAN.
Henceforth the student search com
mittees primary task is to be the review of 
potential presidential candidates. (Pre
liminary groundwork in this search for quali
fied individuals has been done by a second 
sub-committee of the search committee 
headed by Ellen Cohen.) In addition to seek
ing a fine arts representative, Thompson 
stressed that the student search committee 
welcomes input about prospective presi
dential candidates from all students. Lack
ing professional contacts, the students are at 
an initial disadvantage in this search, but 
Thompson suggested that this obstacle 
might be overcome if a mechanism for mas
sive student input could be effected.
He has not only revived a lot of old songs, 
but has written new ones. Among the dozens 
he has authored or co-authored are such hits 
as Turn, Turn, Turn, Kisses Sweeter 
Than Wine, TalkingUnion, Mere Have 
All the Flowers Gone?, If I Had a Ham
mer, and Wkist Deep In the Big Muddy. 
Im looking forward to the miners con
cert because my programs have a lot of songs 
that dont sound right unless the crowd 
joings in. This is a crowd thats going to join
CHINA HANDS:
CMU will soon have the opportunity to hear 
two good lectures on China and the potenti
alities of President Nixons Peking visit. 
Mark Gayn will speak Tuesday,J anuary 25 
and Dr. Richard L. Walker will be heard on 
Thursday, J anuary 27. Both programs will 
be held in Skibo ballroom at 11 30 AM.
Mark Gayn, Asian Bureau Chief of the 
Toronto Star, was born in China and has 
visited that country frequently over the last
10 to 15 years. Since the ping pong thaw 
last May, he has been in China twice. Gayn is 
one of the few Western newspapermen to 
have interviewed Mao Tse-Tung and one in
terview lasted eleven straight hours!
Dr. W&lker is a distinguished scholar 
noted for his studies of China where he was 
born and his incisive and often prophetic 
analyses of modem Asian situations and 
trends. He knows and meets at least once a 
year with leading statesmen in all free Asian 
countries. No one is better qualified to assess 
and appraise objectively the potentials of 
the current dramatic shift in the Asian situa
tion.
georgia?
Bob Stem
Tne books, written by, or contributed to 
by Dr. Edwin Fenton, history professor and 
director of CMU Social Studies Curriculum 
Center, were barred from use in Georgia 
public schools, when they came up for con
sideration in December. Several other books 
by Dr. Fenton, already in use in the schools, 
were not affected by the decision, which 
prohibited the use of material contributed 
by the professor.
In his criticism of Fentons works, Ken
neth K ilpatrick, of the Georgia Board of 
Education stated that he felt that Fentons 
books were biased and contained material 
unsuitable to history texts. The book which 
received the most criticism was The Ameri
cans : A History of the United States, an 
innovative text written by Dr. Fenton in 
collaboration with eight CMU graduate stu
dents. Kilpatrick stated that he thought that 
the ideas presetned were biased and that the 
amounts of material dealing with various 
events were disproportionate. Specifically, 
he said that the length of the section on the 
American Revolution was shorter than that 
dealing with the Vietnam W&r. In fact, twen
ty six pages dealt with the Revolution, while 
only seven dwelt on Vietnam. He also said 
that the light in which the draft was presen
ted was very unfavorable and unsuited to a 
book of this nature. In general, Kilpatrick 
objected to Fentons books, stating that cer
tainly more suitable texts could be found.
The Americans is a text which incor
porates into the study various innovative 
teaching methods, including tapes, films, 
skits, dialogues and a workbook. It is written 
at the reading level of fifth or sixth grade and 
is for use there or for more intelligent stu
dents with reading problems. The ideas are 
presented so as to give the reader a great deal 
to think about and to stimulate him into 
weighing the facts and reaching his own con
clusions. When interviewed, Dr. Fenton 
stated that he and his co-authors attempted 
to present all sides of each topic for each 
students evaluation. He described his 
method of teaching as a systematic exami
nation of alternative solutions to a prob
lem. He allowed that many of the views 
presented may not seem patriotic to many, 
but that each is entitled to his own opinions, 
and that all the facts must be given. Dr. 
Fenton also seemed disturbed that many 
people could not accept articles in some of 
his books because they were contributed by 
Nikita Khruschev. He feels that it is the right 
of people to inquire, but that it is not their 
right to censor.
The National Education Association cri
ticized the ban, stating that it raises some 
serious questions concerning the abridge
ment of academic freedom. It is this obser
vers opinion that this censorship of one 
mans ideas violates rights which are guaran
teed to him as a citizen of the US. It would 
be impossible for an author to maintain his 
intellectual integrity if he was to write only 
what would not be censored by one group or 
another. The ideas presented in his books 
certainly have some merit and it is the right 
of every student to hear all possible views. 
The Americans certainly touches on the 
important points in American history and 
presents its ideas freely and openly, leaving 
all conclusions to the reader.
Dr. Fenton is at present in the Middle 
East, as a consultant to the Israeli Curricu
lum Development Center. He has been there 
since the beginning of the year, travelling to 
various schools, and helping with curriculum 
revision. After touring there and suggesting 
curriculum changes to the Israelis, Dr. Fen
ton is expected back next month.
film: : : :
Jim Oppenheimer
Film has been hailed as one of the newest 
and most contemporary forms of artistic 
expression. In recent years filmmaking has 
come from being the near exclusive realm of 
Hollywood to a point where some of the 
most original, exciting and successful films 
are being produced by students and indepen
dents. Increasing numbers of people are dis
covering film as a creative medium in which 
to communicate ideas and articulate feel
ings.
Interest in film and more specifically 
filmmaking has been growing steadily in the 
past few years at CMU. More and more 
people are becoming involved in filmmmaking activities, as demonstrated by last 
years film festival. Despite this, there has 
been little in the way of organized filmmaking on campus and filmmmaking oppor
tunities have been limited.
The newly formed CMU Film Workshop 
hopes to remedy this situation by providing 
the equipment to produce films, encourag
ing communication among campus film
makers and giving help to novices. With the 
aid of student government, the workshop 
has purchased two Bauer super 8 cameras 
and related film equipment, which theyve 
begun to lend out this semester. In addition, 
theyve exchanged film ideas among mem
bers and have arranged talks by speakers 
with knowledge in film.
The workshop hopes more people inte
rested in film (whether theyve had filmmaking experience or not) will take advan
tage of the workshop and its resources. The 
workshop is open to anyone at CMU and has 
a membership fee of $2.50. What the work
shop can further accomplish will depend on 
student support and participation.
Their first meeting of the semester will be 
held on Monday J anuary 24th in room 45 of 
Skibo. The film An Occurance at Owl 
Creek Bridge will be shown along with 
workshop films. Anyone interested is in
vited. For further information drop a line to 
the Film Wbrkshop, Skibo 103.
Senate News
Shelley Lewis
Student Senate held its first meeting of 
the new semester on Thursday J anuary 
13th. Senate committee chairmen gave re
ports of meetings held prior to the senate 
meeting. The new Senate president, Mike 
Garl, reported that the Security force would 
be ticketing cars without parking permits 
which were parked on university property. 
Mike also announced that the National Stu
dent Political Convention will be held April
19-23 at Case Wstern Reserve University in 
Cleveland, Ohio.
Because students have questioned the al
lotments of student government funds to 
campus organizations, all organizations re
ceiving 2% of their funds from student 
government must indicate it in their publica
tions and publicity. A senate insignia is being 
designed for this purpose.
Five senators were appointed to various 
Trustee committees; Stan Edelstein and 
Grace DAlo-Student Affairs; Tanya Allmond andJ ohn Bell-Budget committee;and 
Tom K lopack-Development and Planning.
Mark Green proposed that Student Se
nate send a resoltuion through the Mens 
Dorm Council to the companies which sup
ply the laundry soap in the vending ma
chines, requesting the availability of non-en
zyme, low phosphate and non NTA soaps.
The next Senate meeting will be held on 
February 7 at 4 30.
PETE SEEGER SINGS FOR PITT MINERS

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6 -Tartan, Thursday, January 20, 1972
Sports
hockey
Bill Bures **
The CMU ice hockey club suffered its 
first league setback at the hands of the Uni
versity of Pittsburgh last Saturday. The Pan
thers beat the Tartan icemen by the score of 
3-1.
Pitt dominated the opening stanza action 
from the initial drop of the puck. Wth only 
one minute and eleven second elapsed, Pitt 
center Billy Glanville shot home a rebound 
for the first Panther goal. The action had 
been fast and furious with much activity 
around the CMU net. Tartan goalie Jeff Hart 
had stopped the initial flurry of shots before 
Glanville fired the puck over Harts outstret
ched leg. K erry Brown of Pitt received an 
assist on the play.
Then CMU applied the pressure as the 
line of Kenworthy, Eastman, and Powers 
buzzed around the Pitt cage but couldnt put 
the puck in the Net.
Wth over nine minutes gone in the first 
period, the Tartans got caught too deep in 
the offensive zone. And powerful Glen Hyde 
broke up the ice for Pitt on a breakaway. 
CMU captain J im Powers was able to catch 
Hyde and force him outside, but Hyde made 
a perfect centering pass to Dave Bahnson. 
Bahnson then fired the puck high and hard 
into the net over Harts shoulder.
Thet wominor penal tiesofthefir st 
period had no effect on the scoring and Pitt 
went to the locker with a 2-0 intermission 
lead.
The team came out skating hard and hit
ting in the second frame. CMU suffered two 
minor penalties while Pitt had four misde
meanors. But each team was able to kill off 
power play threats and the teams skated a 
scoreless second period.
Photo: Jay Caras
The crowd of 350 or better began to 
rumble as the thirdperiodpackedhard 
checkingwithfastskating. Pitt rooters 
chanted defense as the Panthers killed off 
anearlypenalty.Fiveminuteslaterthe 
tables were reversed as CMLPsJohn Hauser 
was penalized two minutes for hooking.
In a daring move, Tartan goalie Jeff Hart 
skated 25 feet out of the net in order to clear 
the puck from an onrushing Pitt wing. Hart 
was only able to tap the puck off the side, 
and Panther Frank Wiliams flipped the puck 
into the open CMU net to increase Pitts lead 
to 3-0.
Wth Hauser still in the sin bin for hook
ing, Tartan center MikeK enworthy display
ed an excellent bit of skating through the 
Pitt defense. Kenworthy decked the Panther 
netminder out of his drawers and slid in the 
first CMU score. Wth five minutes to play in 
the game the score now read 3-1.
The crowd rose to its feet as roars of 
Lets go Tech outdid Lets go Pitt and 
the CMU followers came to new life. A few 
students waved the Tartan flag in support of 
the icemen. The crowd as well as the players 
were incensed as Pitt suffered concurrent 
minor penalties. The Tartans skated a 5 on 3 
man power play but couldnt find the range.
The Panthers proved to have too much 
depth of talent for the Tartans. Pitt seemed 
to have more muscle and brawn and skated 
three balanced lines. The CMU icemen were 
forced to rely heavily on their first two lines 
who skated most of the game. Wiile the 
Tartans third line was able to contain Pitt 
for short spells and give the top lines a breat
her, the Tartans just could not muster the 
necessary scoring talent from their bench.
But all CMU skaters saw action and the 
reserves shoed good hustle in containing Pitt 
in the closing minutes. CMU coach Larry 
J acobs remarked after the game, At least 
we made them earn their victory. They did 
nt walk over us by any means.
Coach Jacobs hopes to develop a stronger 
passing game and deeper scoring potential so 
as to given his top lines adequate rests in 
future games.
The Tartan icemen have two non-league 
games this weekend. On Saturday, J anuary
22, they host >\fest Virginia University at
4 30 PM at the Sewickley ice Rink. Cm 
Sunday ight the 23rd, the Tartans play host 
to Gannon College of Erie, Pa. The game will 
be played in the Civic Arena following the 
Pittsburgh Penguin vs. Montreal Canadians 
NationalHockey League game. Students 
may purchase tickets to the Penguin game 
and stay and see the CMU skaters in action 
afterwards.
The next league opponent for the red and 
white icemen will be Duquesne University.
FIRST PERIOD: Goals : Glanville assis
ted by K. Brown (Pitt); Bahnson assisted by 
Hyde (Pitt). Penalties Powers (CMU)hook
ing; Testa (Pitt) roughing.
SECOND PERIOD: No scoring. Penalties :Leff(CMU)elbowing;Ford(CMU) 
interference; Wlson (Pitt)charging; Bahnson 
(Pitt) interference; D. Browne (Pitt) trip
ping; Wiliams (Pitt) cross-checking.
THIRD PERIOD: Goals : Wiliams (Pitt) 
u n a s s i s t e d JC e n w o r t hy (CMU)unas$isted. 
Penalties :Kohl (Pitt) interference; Hauser 
(CMU) hooking; K. Brown (Pitt) tripping; 
Bahnson (Pitt) slashing; Testa (Pitt) boardin 8  Photo: Jay Caras
CRIMPED
Stampton Crimped
I went to my first hockey game this past 
Saturday, to see CMU play Pitt at the Alpine 
Arena in Edgewood. As with any first, I 
didnt exactly know what was going on all 
the time, and there were a few things that I 
didnt understand, and sort of blew right 
past me without me picking them up. I really 
just sat there, and watched everything and 
cheered when everybody else did. Hockey 
can be a confusing game for the uninitiated. 
Everything is so unrelated to other games 
you already know about; symmetrical games 
like baseball, or football, or basketball.
Hockey, along with Roller Derby, is one 
of those bloodlust sports, or at least this is 
the impression I get from the fans, and the 
ads portrayed on television. TV has probab
ly done more to give sports like hockey a 
bad name than the game itself. You flash 
on a few scenes of fighting or violent action 
on the ice and the image maker has done its 
work. The scenes of fighting and bloodshed 
are stuck in your mind. Some people go to 
the games to watch this because its what 
theyve been led to believe hockey games are 
about, from what theyve seen on TV. TV 
has done the same thing with motor racing. I 
can remember seeing a terrible accident at 
Monaco where a man was burned to death 
inside of his car. And they kept giving it 
instant replays and summaries until it 
was so disgusting, and surreal, totally 
removed from tragedy,and just one of the 
highlights of the race. But, what of that, j 
this is an article.about hockey, not the per
verse influences of the media.
To start out, there are three playing 
periods in a hockey game, each one fifteen 
minutes in length, with a ten minute break in 
between each one. Now sure, baseball games 
have nine innings, but at least there are two 
different teams at the plate each inning. In 
football you have four quarters; basketball j 
too, T think. And the terms they use, al
though every bit as ridiculous as clipping

---------------------------------------------------

Tartan, Thursday, January 20, 1972- Page 7
CRIMFED
or birdie, are totally unknown to un
trained spectators such as I was. Ill give you 
to three to guess what Icing is. Give up? 
So did I.
But I have to say that the visceral aspects 
of the game were exciting. It just kept me on 
the edge of my seat, heart pounding away, 
trying to anticipate when the puck was going 
to sail into the crowd at ninety miles per 
hour and smash into someones face. Those 
guys would slap the puck at the goal and 
sometimes it would sail up maybe fifteen 
feet and hit the chickenwire fence, making a 
sound like armor-clad knights, charging 
across Hastings battlefield. Other times, it 
would strike the plywood fence around the 
ice and give off a report like someone firing a 
howitzer at the end of the block. And be
lieve me, hockey is a body contact sport. 
Two guys go skating away down the ice, as 
hard as they can, sticks flying, skates flying, 
teeth clamped together in determiantion, 
get down to the end of the rink, POW 
BOOM!, somebodys into the chickenwire 
fence smashed over the waist-high apron, 
stopped instantly, from 40 to 0 in a split 
second. Its got to hurt. And what do they 
do? Look up, see the puck skittering away in 
the opposite direction, and take off again.
But anyway, Pitt wopped our ass good, 3 
to 1. Our team just wasnt as good as theirs* 
Every time they passed the puck, someone 
was there to receive it. And our players fell 
down a lot. I overheard one of our players 
talking to our Intrepid Girl Sports Editor 
after the game, and he was saying that Pitt 
had more depth than CMU.
But at any rate, the game is exciting, 
although frustrating at times when ten guys 
gather in front of the goal and start to fall 
down on each other, and you lose sight of 
the puck, or when the puck goes skittering 
off down the ice by itself at 5 mph. But its a 
cool way to spend an afternoon. Now if 
everybody in the school goes to one 
game ...
SMALLBORE WIN
Elsbeth Weichsel
CMlFs varsity rifle team defeated IUFs 
1286 to 1283. Scoring the winning points 
for CMU was Way Paul (278), Eric McNeal
(255), Norm Cable (254), Ozzie Kemp 
(251), and Steve Roth (248). This win brings 
our accumulated number of wins to 6 (1 
lost). By this win IUFs two year winning 
streak was broken.
cinderthistle 
hand knitting yams
812 ivy street 
shadyside
HEAR A BROADCAST ...
OF
CONGRESSWOMAN SHIRLEY CHISHOLM'S
... VISIT TO CM-U ...
TONIGHT AT 7:35
WRCT NEWS/9
FOR FREE
Pregnancy 
Counseling
PITTSBURGH
Call
422-7900
Women's Medico I Assistance
a non-profit organization
PERSON - INTERPERSON
A series of eight Monday night meetings, in an informal 
group setting. An opportunity for people concerned with 
personal and interpersonal growth to explore their ideas, 
feelings and interactions involving themselves and others. 
Member Limit: .12 people  Fee: $10.00
Reservations MUST be mad* in advance. For more information:
IRV BRICK, 421-9531  MARY GARROTT, 422-9531
315 S Bellefield Ave.. 3rd Floor, Hillel Lounge 
February 7, 14, 21, 28  8:15 to 11 p.m.
March 6, 13, 20, 27  8:15 to 11 p.m.
PETE SEEGER
WORLD REKNOWN FOLK SINGER
IN CONCERT
Benefit of
MINERS FOR DEMOCRACY
Jan. 21, Friday 
8:15 p.m.
CARNEGIE MUSIC HALL
SCHENLEY PARK 
 Tickets: $3.50 and $4.50 
Available at Kaufman's, Gimbels, 
Home's, University of Pittsburgh, 
Student Union Office, and 
BOX OFFICE 
CARNEGIE MUSIC HALL 
NIGHT OF THE CONCERT

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8 - Tartan, Thursday, January 20, 1972
palso
Terence N. Palso
Picking the ten best films from the one 
hundred and forty-one which this writer saw 
in theaters, auditoriums, and several other 
places during the 1971 calendar year, has 
turned out to be a bit more difficult than 
was originally envisioned. This is due to the 
fact that only films released during 1971 are 
eligible for this list. If one is going to list 
something released in 1970, but not seen 
until 1971, whats to keep one from listing 
something released in 1965 or even 1939? 
At this point things get out of hand, and one 
winds up with a list of ten favorite films of 
the last forty or more years which were seen 
in 1971. This not only defeats the purpose 
of a yearly ten best listing, but it also serves 
to completely ignore recent films deserving 
of attention.
This reasoning coupled with the fact that 
many films do not get out to the wilds of 
Astern Pennsylvania for quite some time, 
while many foreign films never make it here 
at all, serves to greatly decrease the number 
of films which are eligible contenders. 
Doubtless, the first months of 1972 will 
bring several films into town which, if seen 
earlier by this writer, would very radically 
alter the following selections, but, thats the 
way the reel unwinds.
So now, without any furher qualifica
tion, here, in no particular order, are what 
this writer thinks were the best new films he 
saw in 1971 :
STRAW DOGSDirector Sam Peckinpah 
has created one of the most compellingly 
shattering film experiences this writer has 
ever witnessed. This brilliantly done story of 
senseless violence is so well handled that, at 
times, it is almost too real. Excellent acting 
by Dustin Hoffman and superb attention to 
craftsmanship by Peckinpah make this the 
best film of the year.
ADRIFTMade in Czechoslovakia by Jan 
Kadar, this haunting story of a mans awa
kening to the difference between real and 
idolized love is a brilliantly beautiful film 
which did not receive the recognition or 
attention which it richly deserves.
CARNAL KNOWLEDGE-Mike Nichols 
seemignly can do nothing wrong. He not 
only carefully and intelligently translates 
Jules Feiffers screenplay, but he also 
manages to get superb performances from all 
of the stars in this eloquent plea for mens 
liberation.
TAKING OFFCzech director Milos Fore
man tackles the American generation gap 
and succeeds brilliantly while making this 
one of the funniest films of the year. In
The Ten Best Films of 1971
Foremans hands, Buck Henry shows that he 
has a future as a comic actor by turning in a 
hilarious portrayal as a father of a runaway 
teenage daughter who really isnt lost at all. 
THE FRENCH CONNECTION-Detective 
thrillers are alive and well and in the very 
capable hands of director William Friedkin. 
Gene Hackman can be one helluva actor 
when he has the proper vehicle, and this film 
was indeed it. This is a motion picture others 
of this genre will be measured by.
THE CLOWNSFelini as he hasnt been for 
too long a time. A wonderful look at a 
sentimental mans concept of a dying insti
tution. Lovingly handled, this film manages 
to be warm and witty but never maudlin or 
messy.
BED AND BOARD-Francois Truffauts 
last look at Antoine Doinel. A sensitive film 
full of genuinely funny and heartwarming 
scenes, it is so masterfully crafted that it 
stays miles away from even approaching 
situation comedy while also steering clear of 
becoming an amusing LOVE STORY. 
DERBYRobert Kaylors first film must be 
the most overlooked motion picture of the 
year, yet it was clearly the best documen
tary, taking the viewer into places where the 
Roller Derby is more than jsut a pst time 
where it becomes a way of life. Excellently 
handled and edited, this picutre offers a 
glimpse of the life style too many people 
live.
KLUTEPerhaps not reallyJn a class with 
any of the other films listed here, this film is 
still way above average if only for the perfor
mance of Jane Fonda, who not only silenced 
anyone who doubted her talent, but also 
turned in the best performance given by any 
actress this year.
MAD DOGS AND ENGLISHMEN-What 
would be a year without a good rock flick? 
This was not only the best of the crop, but 
may be the only thing done in this genre 
better than WOODSTOCK. A happy film 
full of great vibes and fantastic music, it 
didnt just show you what was happening, it 
let you understand and become a part of it.
Well, thats it. Mention could be made of 
other films and performances, but that 
would make this longer than many people 
would be willing to read, and would also 
serve to keep this writer out of a movie 
theater longer than is good for him. So, let 
me take this opportunity to be the last per
son to wish all of you out there in reader 
land a Happy New Year, and then permit 
him to slink away to check on whats worth 
seeing twice.
real world
Steve Jurman
Believing that a weakness exists in the 
present university educational system, the 
CMU Y-Office of Community Affairs is of
fering a new service to students.
To assist in complementing classroom 
work with practical real world experi
ences, the Office will place interested stu
dents in off-campus positions relevant to 
their particular needs. Such placement 
might serve as Field work needed for an 
independent sutdy project.
A faculty-student committee operating 
through the Office will be available to assist 
in locating a faculty sponsor and arranging 
academic credit for such independent suty
projects. Several students have already been 
successfully placed.
Information volunteer services of Alle
gheny County will provide a link to most 
health and welfare agencies in the city, and 
placements in governement and industry are 
being investigated. One example of the 
many opportunities available now is the 
Allegheny County Bureau of Consumer Pro
tection, which needs investigators in various 
areas.
It may be possible to place students for 
the Spring Semester, as well as for the sum
mer. The deadline for adding courses is 
January 3lst. Anyone interested or seeking 
further information should inquire at the 
Y-Office of Community Affairs, Room 57, 
Skibo.
Leslie Bram 
John Gross
Although in principle, a newspaper co
lumn such as this should devote itself to one 
topic per week, we find that to be an impos
sibility this week. Too many things are hap
pening too fast to put them off.
First of all, did you know that the Stu
dent Senate is holding a dinner for H. G. 
Stever this \tednesday night? You shouldnt 
be surprised if you didnt because neither 
did most of the senators until last Tuesdays 
meeting. Ah, bureaucracies stumble even on 
such simple matters. The dinner is a truly 
lovely idea-it really is. But Student Senate 
must set the same fiscal policies for them
selves as they do for the other activities on 
campus. Its a sad state of affairs when bud_ gets are presented for approval after the 
money has been spent.***
An issue has been raised in the Senate 
that has long been a pet of ours-thats the 
idea of academic credit for extracurricular 
activities. The idea is not a new one. Almost 
every university in the country provides cre
dits or financial rebates to individuals in 
time-consuming positions (ie. president of 
student government, editor of newspaper, 
etc.). It is also not a new idea on this campus. 
Over the years, the English and other depart
ments have sometimes given credits to the 
past editors of the TARTAN, etc. Also the 
University has already admitted the positive 
value of such a program by providing tuition 
rebates for the managers of the Student Art 
Gallery.
The concept makes so much sense. Do 
you know how many hours a week is invol
ved in the running of WRCT, the TARTAN, 
Student Government? For people who 
either have to work to stay in school or for 
people whose work load is exceedingly 
heavy, the involvement in extracurricular 
activities becomes taboo.
Admittedly, if this principle is initiated, 
mammoth hours of planning to set specific 
criteria, etc. will be required. But the end 
result would be a great step in the expansion 
of campus activities. If you are interested, 
either pro or con, write the TARTAN.
Zero Population Growth, New York, an
nounces the operation of a free Abortion 
Referral Service. Any woman up to 24 
weeks pregnant will be directed to the doc
tor, clinic or hospital that best suits her 
needs. The telephone number is 
212-489-7794, and we are staffed from 10 
to 5, (New York time), Monday through 
Friday.
The non-profit service operates free of 
charge and is staffed by trained volunteers. 
An early abortion is usually obtainable for 
$150; later abortions are $300 to $500.
Wfe are located at 353 Wfest 57th Street, 
New York, NY 10019. Zero Population 
Growth is a nationwide organization dedica
ted to the stabilization of the United States 
population as soon as possible through vo
luntary means.
Randy Newman Bonnie Raitt
Walter Koehler
The last Activities Board concert of the 
fall semester brought to our campus two 
artists from Wimer Brothers records, Bonny 
Raitt and Randy Newman. Wirner Brothers 
always goes to great length to promote their 
musicians, like putting out low price records 
with samplings of their various groups, and 
sponsoring tours like Captain Beefheart and 
Ry Cooder who played here a year ago, and 
Depp Purple/Fates who toured together this 
summer. It seems that WB picks up a lot of 
talent but not the big-name, gold-record, 
sell-out concert variety, which would ex
plain all this promotion.
It all paid off, as far as this writers con
cerned, in the Randy Newman/Bonny Raitt 
deal, because here are two of the better 
voices in the 1970s music scene, and it was a 
pleasure and, in Randy Newmans case, a 
rare privilege to see them.
Bonny Raitt opened the bill with some 
really fine down-home, folk-blues guitar, 
singing her own compositions along with old 
blues standards, both fitting together quite 
nicely. She also laid some National steel 
guitar bottlnecking on us, and piano on a 
couple tunes, where she unfortunately 
sounded a bit too much like Carol King. 
K eep an eye out for this girl.
Randy Newman is the antithesis of the 
superstar stage showman. He rarely appears 
in public and apparantly doesnt even want 
or care to, despite the fact that he is one of 
the very best songwriters in the world. At 
Skibo he just loped over to the piano, sat 
down and did his tunes. Newman plays a sort 
of slow honky-tonk piano, no flashiness, and 
sings in a pinched voice. Musically, his songs 
wont win any prizes, but lyrically they are 
unbeatable. His style is confusing and enig
matic; he cruelly ridicules about everything 
there is to ridicule, says the most heartless 
lines, bitterly mocks different life styles, but 
you find yoursel fthinking, I should hate 
this guy, but I dont and I dont know why I 
dont. His song, Mama Told Me Not To 
Come, made popular by Three Dog Night, 
is an example. Three Dog Night did it as a 
bouncy, dancy song about a dope party, 
Newman draws a picture of a kid lost in the 
new exciting world of drugs, offers cruel 
sarcasm instead of consolation, and ends up 
looking like a real bastard. Another song is 
addressed to an old man, and it message is 
old man, nobody needs you, nobody wants 
you, why dont you just go away and die. 
The audience reacts schizoid, not knowing 
whether to laugh or cry or go beat up Randy 
Newman.
Not all of his songs are in this vein, 
though; many are just good entertaining sa
tire. Suzanne, a perverts fantasy, starts 
out I found your name on the wall of a 
phone booth/And I sure hope what it said 
was the truth, and contains the great line, 
I want to run my finger through your hair.
The thing to do is hope that Randy New
man doesnt continue his decline into obs
curity, because his songs are perhaps the 
most original being written today, and his 
messages are among the few poetic voices in 
contemporary music.

---------------------------------------------------

Tartan, Thursday, January 20,1972 - Page 9
Let rs:LtA snL:osu tArcnL:osnma uc:tsL:S:c nsA crmLrpnm opTns:HnL:osa specialized agency of the United Nations dedicated to peace 
and
THE STUDENT AID SOCIETY
a non-profit non-political organization dedicated 
to helping students to help themselves 
offer
STUDY ABROAD$ 6 value
New 19th Edition 
Each copy is trilingual 
in English, French and Spanish
Paris, France, 1972 644 Pages
$1.50 value
$ 5 value
$3<r
"Your reference service 
saved me much valuable 
time which I put in on 
other subjects. Result: 5 
As and 1 B."
CN, Ann Arbor, Mich
The Vantage Point" is a 
book put together by 5 
ghost writers and edited 
by LBJ. Your reference 
service is almost like my 
own personal ghost writer.
LC, Gainesville, Fla.
"The 3 reference books 
of which every student 
needs personal copies 
are Study Abroad, a 
good dictionary and 
thesaurus. / got a $10,000 
4-year scholarship from 
Study Abroad."
AR. Berkeley, Calif.
The most complete scholarship directory in the world lists more 
than 234,000 scholarships, fellowships, loans and grants in more than 129 countries or territories! Tells who is eligible, fields of 
study, financial assistance, HOW, WHEN AND WHERE TO 
APPLY! Reflects the latest scholarship approach costed by financial need!
VACATION STUDY ABROAD
 Each copy is trilingual in English, French and Spanish
More and more Americans are flocking overseas for summer 
vacations, and an increasing proportion is young Americans! With 
the price war now raging on overseas airfares, record-breaking 
numbers of young Americans will surge across Europe this 
summer! VACATION STUDY ABROAD tells how qualified people will go free! Provides information on short courses, 
seminars, summer schools, scholarships and travel grants available each year to students, teachers and other young people and adults 
planning to undertake study or training abroad during their 
vacations. These data were provided by some 500 organizations in 54 countries!
STUDENT AID SOCIETY membership dues. Services offered:
 Scholarship information service.
Answers questions concerning scholarships worldwide! Travel service.
Plans interesting tours to exotic lands! Reference Service.
Drafts term papers, essays, book reports, theses, etc. frequently using primary sources available only in the 
Library of Congress! We do not actually write the finished 
assignment since that would deprive the student of valuable 
educational experience and defeat the very purpose for 
writing for oneself in the first place. We will provide 
background information and bibliographies which rank 
with such tools as the College Outline Series and encyclo
paedia reference services available only with expensive sets. Limit of one draft at small additional charge, per semester 
per student in good standing. We cannot answer any 
question which we feel requires the advice of a doctor, 
lawyer, architect, engineer, or other licensed practitioner, 
nor can we advise concerning your financial investments. 
Neither can we undertake market research or surveys or 
provide home study courses.
IStudent Aid Society, PO Box 39042 |j Friendship Station, Washington, D.C. 200161
I Gentlemen: I enclose $6 for Study Abroad, 
j Vacation Study Abroad and annual dues.
I Name___________________________________I IAddress.
I City, State. I_________
Zip.
WANTED:
ACTORS, 
DIRECTORS and PRODUCERS 
- for
NEW MOVIE COMPANY
write: MOVIES:c/o TARTAN OFFICE 
Room 50Skibo 
C-MU
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213
JOES PIZZA
is now delivering
Compare Our Prices
9" PIZZA .............................80
12" PZZA ..........................1.40
Extras  .25 and .30
SANDWICHES*
HOAGIE ..................................80
HAM ........................................65
MEAT BALL ............................50
HOT SAUSAGE ...................50
CHEESE .....................................35
SODAS ....................................20
Delivery Charge to Dorms:
? .35 ?
CALL: 621-3223
4800 Baum Boulevard
33
RUGS
for less
with your ID Card
1000 9x12 Rugs 
$15 S19 S29 S49
also 6x9s, 12x12s, 12x15, eft.
 WHOLESALE FURNITURE 
BEDROOMS, LIVINGROOMS, ETC. 
AVAILABLE AT NEARBY SHOWROOMS
Director Chairs, Butterfly Chairs, 
Lamps, *tc. Larger Furniture thru 
Wholewle Showrooms.
CHASES
5426 WALNUT STREET, SHADYSIDE
OP BN DAILY 10 o.m. to 9 p.m. 
(Saturday 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.)
For Information .. . Call 621*1025
Campus Camera Headquarters
FOR ALL YOUR 
PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS
WE RENT AND 
REPAIR TYPEWRITERS
CAMERA EXCHANGE
3711 FORBES AVENUE
:Student Discount on Most Items: 
Phone: 683-2181
FLYING
11 to 2 a.m. every day GINO and PETE'S .
Take Out Orders 41 ^ South Craig St.  Oakland 
682-9691 Hoagies The biggest and busiest 
Pizzas Made to Order Pizza Parlor in OAKLAND!
Israel
Planning to go to Israel 
This Summer?
Mfe have 
all kinds of exciting 
programs to offer you. 
APPLY NOW LIMITED SPACE 
Israel Programs Consultant: Giora Sharir
Call 621*6500
ext. 29
SCOTTY'S
391S FORBES AVENUE 
7918 PENN AVENUE 
and ROUTE , 
NORTH OF ETNA
OPEN TO SERVE YOU 24 HOURS A DAY
Between Classes 
or at Study Break
The Largest Selection of 
Imported and Domestic 
Tobaccos and Pipes 
in the City
BRIAR BOWL
3725 FORBeS Si. 601-6045
Nationally Advertised Pipes
STAG: 40s
JANUARY 21 st 
7:00 - 9:15 
DH: 2210 
50c with AB Card
FREE PROFESSIONAL 
COUNSELING
EVBtY WEDNESDAY 
AND THURSDAY
From 1 to 3 p.m.
By Appointment
621-8875

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10- Tartan, Thursday, January 20,1972

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Tartan, Thursday, January 20,1972 - Page II
Now there's a coursethat pays 100 a month. Vnm ROTC.
In our Advanced Course the monthly sub
sistence allowance has just been increased. From $50 to $100. 
One hundred dollars every month for 10 months of the school 
year. To spend on room and board, dates and ball games.
To save for grad school.
But Army ROTC means a lot more than more 
money. It means management and leadership experience that 
you just cant get anywhere else. The kind of thing that can 
land you a better job, and move you along faster once you 
get it. It means a commission as an officer and everything 
that goes with it. The prestige, the pay, the chance to travel, 
the experience.
Now ROTC looks 
even better. For the money 
youll earn today. For the person 
youll be tomorrow. See your 
Professor of Military Science, 
or send the coupon for 
information.
Army ROTC.
The more you look at it, 
the better it looks.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12 -Tartan, Thursday, January 20, 1972
JAMES COTTON BLUES 
BAND RETURNS
skibo ballroom, thursday jan.27
8=30p.m.-TartnT T,EdtT-i o:Pee GgsJ Film Card 
Presented by the Activities Board
