Student Govt. Election Results
ini tartan
March 20, 1973 Volume 73 Number 22
Provost Discusses Economic Controls
by Steven Correll
Arnold B. Weber, newly appointed dean 
of GSIA and provost over GSIA, SUPA, 
and H&SS, criticized the effect of wage 
and price controls on labor-management 
relations in a lecture at GSIA last Thurs
day.
the government for a sizable increase in 
both wages and prices than to battle them 
over a smaller increase in wages alone, 
noting that the retail food industry in 
particular tended to cave in to 22% wage 
increases, relying on the Pay Board to 
reduce Union demands.
Weber commented that management 
favored controls more as a means to limit 
the egregious use of union power than as 
a means to check inflation, but denied that 
Economic Stabilization was an economic 
crown of thorns pressed down on the head 
of labor. Actually, he claimed, it aug
mented the power of large unions, noting 
that wage increases for large union con
tracts averaged 6.8% during a period in 
which wages in'general rose only 5.2%. In 
part this reflects the fact that . . . those 
who are savvy in the ways of regulatory
agencies have an advantage, he said.
continued on page 14
by Steven Correll
Last Wednesday and Thursday, 675 
C-MU students went to the polls, electing 
Tanya Allmond to the presidency of stu
dent government and approving a $2.50 
per semester increase in the activities fee.
The number of voters, though one third 
higher than the number voting last semes
ter, is only 16% of eligible students. Voters 
at the H&SS and CIT/MIS polls registered 
the highest turnout, with about 22% of 
eligible voters casting ballots at both polls. 
Fine Arts voters and graduate students 
trailed with approximately 14% and 5% of 
eligibles voting.
Thanks to the light turnout and the lack 
of enough names on the ballot to fill all the 
positions, several senators won election 
with as few as two write-in votes.
The Activities fee referendum passed by 
more than two to one. Jim Johnston, a 
candidate who opposed the increase, sug
gested that People who though they were 
going to get their budgets cut if the fee 
didnt pass didnt want them cut.
Senate sources estimated that the elec
tion cost about $175-including the ex
pense of hiring poll attendants-with voting 
machines loaned free by the Allegheny 
County Board of Elections. Senate re
ported that few irregularities occured in 
the balloting process, though one poll 
opened late on Thursday and one machine 
temporarily malfunctioned.
In a flurry of last-minute activity 
Tuesday, the old Student Senate passed a
Pres Power Abused?
Provost Arnold Weber makes a 
a point at GSIA lecture.
Photo by Ric Werme
Weber, a labor economist, served as a 
public member of President Nixons Pay 
Board until its dissolution last January. He 
also served as executive director of the 
Cost of Living Council until October 1971, 
when he resigned to join the Pay Board and 
to resume teaching at the University of 
Chicago.
Speaking only of the impact that the 
Economic Stabilization Program had on 
collective bargaining, Weber predicted that 
eventual weakening of management stra
tegies and politicization of labor disputes 
would outweigh immediate benefits of 
fewer strikes and cheaper settlements. 
Weber explained the controls generally 
weakened managements tactical position 
in collective bargaining by favoring a 
climate that indelicate people might call 
collusion. He said that corporations often 
found it easier to join unions in petitioning
Focus April 22
The Focus Concert, originally scheduled 
for Wednesday, March 21st, has been 
changed to Thursday, March 22nd. Focus 
was offered the opportunity to appear on 
the ABC-TV show In Concert and the 
only time they could tape it was 
Wednesday, March 21st. In order to appear 
at C-MU, Focus cancelled a date in 
Camden, N.J., where they were scheduled 
on Thursday.
by Joan McOusky
Four prominent Pennsylvania citizens 
gave their views on The Bower of the Pres
idency and Individual Liberties at the 
CMU Forum held last Tuesday evening. It 
was the first half of a two part program 
entitled American Rights 1984; Prog
nosis, being sponsored by the Student 
Activities Office and the Chaplains 
Association. The speakers included Tom 
Kerr, Head of the CMU Administration and 
Management Science department and Pres
ident of the American Civil Liberties Union 
of Pennsylvania; Marjorie Matson, At
torney and President of the American Civil 
Liberties Union ot Pittsburgh; Congress
man William Moorhead, and Richard 
Thornburgh, State Attorney General. 
Beekman Cottrell, Professor of English at 
C-MU, moderated.
As the TARTAN representative stum
bled into the Wherrett Room, five minutes at the end of the programme.
PRE-REGISTRATION:
Tanya Allmond, newly elected
Student Government President.________
resolution asking the administration to 
grant a full tuition rebate to the Student 
Government President, the Senate 
Chairman, the Tartan Editor in Chief, and 
the WRCT General Manager. Other Senate 
Resolutions called for free parking for 
professors emeriti and refunds to 
commuter students who only park during 
the spring and fall semesters.______
for complete election ______________results see page 4
late and winded by a two minute run from 
Morewood, it became evident that the 
speakers were both earnest and well 
informed in their speculations about 
Americas future. The audience was for the 
most part made up of intently listening 
students, many of whom had notebooks or 
tape recorders. The whole atmosphere was 
one of quiet hard work and dedication to 
personally meaningful causes. Richard 
Thornburgh, a Nixon advocate, and the 
most conservative of the speakers, was 
allowed to speak with no heckling or inter
ruptions from the audience. At one point a 
lady with a large basket and an armful of 
papers broke in with a speech about organ
ized crime. She and Dr. Cottrell debated 
for several minutes, he confining his state
ments to Madam, please you are very out 
of order. The woman appeared very 
apologetic and eventually contented herself 
with handing out information by the door
State Attorney General Richard 
Thornburgh speaks.
Photo by Frank Stein
The first speaker was Tom Kerr. He 
spoke powerfully about the loss of the 
individuals rights. He spoke of the govern
ments turning Us back on the poor, 
with th* cutbacks in welfare programmes. 
He discussed the governments investiga
tions of private organizations and busi 
continued on page 14
April 10 & 11 By Dept.
Pre-registration enrollment of students 
on class lists will be done by the academic 
departments in their respective areas on 
April 10 and 11, 1973.
All students should arrange to have 
three copies of the schedules approved by 
their advisors and then individually arrange 
to gain enrollment for the courses needed 
and/or required by going to each pertinent 
department at any convenient time 
between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. on the two days 
indicated.
After enrollment of all courses 
scheduled, students should return the three 
copies of their schedules lo their major
department to be held until formal registra
tion on September 4, 1973. These
schedules should clearly indicate any
adjustments which have been made in the 
enrollment process. Course cards are 
ultimately key-punched from these
schedules, and it is therefore very im
portant that course numbers, sections, 
units and student numbers be accurate and 
legible, and that students indicate on the 
schedules ihe classification (i.e., sopho
more, senior, etc.) wbich they will have in 
the Fall rather than the present
classification.
It should also be noted that the official
roster of a class is determined by the list 
generated by each department in the pre
registration and registration procedure. It a 
student does not sign the class list for each 
course in which he wishes to enroll, no 
subsequent issuance of class cards by the 
Registrar entitles him to entry into the 
course, and the instructors may return such 
cards to the Registrar after marking them 
void.
Students who have pre-registered will be 
given preference for places in courses over 
all students who have not pre-registered 
regardless of their classification (i.e. Senior 
Junior, etc.).______;_________________

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 20, 1973
EDITORS NOTE
Last week Student Government elections were held. As usual, 
there was at best a mediocre turnout. Most of the controversy, if 
there was any, centered around the referendum question. The Senate 
races were almost ignored.
Im certainly not going to blame anyone for not voting in these 
races, however. If / didnt hold the common misconception that you 
have to vote in all contests in order for your vote to count, / 
wouldnt have voted for any senators myself. How can anybody 
possibly be very interested in an election where there are eight open 
seats and only four people running for office?
But Im not going to blame people for not running for Senate, 
either. The Senate meetings Ive been to have generally been com
pletely boring. And the meetings Ive heard about have been worse. / 
cant imagine a more boring thing to do than run for Student Senate.
There are a lot of things wrong with the Senate. Compared to 
what it possibly could be, the Senate is not a particularly meaningful 
body. As it is, it barely manages to serve as a distributer of funds for 
Student Activities. With the creation of the Student Government 
Corporation, Student Senate has the ability to institute services such 
as a Student Record Store or a Co-op. Eventually, it could con
ceivably take over the operation of the Bookstore and Housing and 
Food Service and make them entirely student operated. But it 
doesnt and / cant conceive of Senate in its present form getting it 
together to do these things. And these are only a few of its possibili
ties.
President Cyert suggested on his monthly radio show on WRCT 
last week that the main problem with the Senate is its composition. 
He proposed that instead of electing senators according to the 
residency of the students, we should elect them according to aca
demic units-by department or college.
In many ways, this idea is very appealing. Since C-MU is 
supposedly a highly academic place, it would make sense that the 
students should identify more strongly with their academic peers 
than with those who happen to have similar living conditions. It also 
strikes a good note with common sense. / think Id be more likely to 
be interested in a contest between two people in the English Depart
ment or H&SS than a race between two people who call themselves 
commuters. Under this system, / think Id feel more inclined to run 
for senate, too.
Maybe all Student Senate needs is to institute such a system to 
bring the senators closer to their constituents. Maybe by making a 
senate seat more real and closer to the students main concerns more 
candidates will run for office. Maybe the senate will improve and 
students will take a genuine interest in elections. Maybe the senate 
will start doing some of the important and interesting things that 
they have the power to do.
According to recent history and the most recent elections, / 
dont think the plight of senate can get much worse.
Stephen Saunders
m
ME LOVES MB, HE LOVES ME NOT, HE LOVES ME../'
tartan
Editor in Chief............... Steve Saunders
Business Manager................Alice Bright
News Editor.........................Gary Singer
Features Editor .... Shelley Burhans
Special Editors.......................Jef^Ganek
Mina Gei'all
Special Concultant .... Steve Jurman 
Assistant News Editor . . . Debbie Siegel 
News and Features Staff . . , S, Breisch 
Gary Bronheim, Chris Brown 
Craig Collins, Steve Correll 
Sharon Curcio, Brandon Dula 
Anna Friedman 
Greg Fulton, Mike Hill 
Chris Infante, Kathy Knobloch 
Thomas Lang, Joan McClusky 
Photography Editors .... Ed Levine
Elliot Arons
Photography Staff .... Henry Collim 
Ellen Eddy, Bruce Edelston 
Andrea Friedman, Carl Grefenstette 
Nick Lardas Gr*g Nickel 
John Sbettel, Frank Stein 
Kevin Scott, Ric Werme
The Editorial Board of the TARTAN reserves the right to edit or withhold any copy that it considers 
unfit for publication. Published every Tuesday during the academic year at Carnegie Mellon 
University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 15213. Editorial and Business offices are located in Skibo 50. 
Telephone (412) 682-4557 or extension 656.
Entertainment Editor . . Stephen Hamm 
Entertainment Staff . . Terry Caywood 
Nonie Dempsey, Arnie Karr 
Paula Shubock, Hank Levy 
Steve Perkins, Susan Klein 
Winton Snyder, Jay Corpus 
Doug Stone
Sports Editor ...................Jeff Engl und
Sports Staff................................Dan Buis
Roger Geddes, David Girdany 
Glenn Campbell, D.R. Sullivan 
Bruce Hoffman, Eric Johnson 
Sybelle Mryczko, Dave List 
Greg Mason, Jim Sivak 
Political Cartoonist . . Jimmy Margulies
Layout  .......................Erica Gees
Copy Staff ...........................Mina Gerall
Cyndy Schmidt
Business Staff ...................Beth Bowers
Advertising Manager . . Dwayne Smalls
Letters:
Editor:
For what its worth, I just wanted to let 
you know that the March 6 TARTAN 
struck me as one of the strongest papers 
journalistically Ive seen in about five years 
on campus.
Roland H. King 
Media Coordinator
(Ed. note: God Bless Roland King)
Editor:
Being among the many nightly joggers 
of CMU, I have discovered the latest game 
of Security: Musical Gates. Each night a 
different combination of entrances to the 
track are unlocked. Only the gate by 
Morrison St. is always open, the other gates 
being locked, it seems, only on nights when 
the practice field is one large mudpie. Does 
Security have a fanatical desire to watch 
people run around the track bedecked with 
mudTlease-Open Those Gates!
Jon Smith
The owner of once-white shoes
crriu news system opinion poll
The TARTAN, in conjunction with WRCT, is presently exploring the 
possibility of starting a journalism-communications major/option at 
C-MU. This poll is being taken in order to get some idea of the demand 
for such a program and to give interested students a chance to contibute 
any ideas they may have to the creation of such a program.
All completed forms should be sent to Room 50 Skibo by campus 
mail. It doesnt cost any money.
what is the demand for a major in journalism or communications on the 
Carnegie-Mellon University campus?
1)would you be interested in taking a journalism course if it were offered 
by the English department at CMU?
yes.....No.......
2) what type of courses would you be interested in?.
3) have you ever taken a journalism or communications course at another 
university because CMU did not offer the same course?
yes.....No.......
4) what courses have you taken at CMU that you would consider appro
priate to include in a communications program?...........
5) please feel free to add any additional comments on the possibility of 
CMU offering a communications program.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, March 20, 1973Page 3
MEWS COMMENT
Student Government Elections were here. This turns out to be a hot 
news item for all but the 675 students who bothered to participate. For 
those that did, the situation was almost the same as for those that didnt. 
The ballot was plagued with empty spaces; six positions being available in 
the MDC constituency, with only two candidates running. Write in votes, 
\ for those that could figure out how to write in a candidates name, filled 
in some of these vacancies, making an overwhelming showing of two votes, 
adequate for election to senate.
This was the election that promised to correct the ills of all past 
elections. It is true that the polls did not run away from the potential 
voter, as they did during the last election, and true again that due to 
computer print-out tabs for each student, duplicate voting by one person 
was made vertually impossible. It is also true that the numerous half page 
\ advertisements and the pamphlet whats all this Brouhaha, which were 
cluttered, confusing conglomerations of nothing (I still dont know if the 
pamphlet was telling me to run or to vote) proved more than ineffective. 
This election, even with its publicity director, proved only 150 votes 
better than the last.
Facing up to this catastrophy, Student Senate officials tried to cover 
up this blemish, by refusing to give a TARTAN reporter the exact 
numbers of votes per candidate. Senate felt it against policy to inform the 
students of CMU how they voted. It considered a list simply naming the 
winners more desireable than one showing two of the new senators with 
only two votes each.
The elections are over, the problems remain. You wont hear another 
word about it from me until next election, when the ever shrinking 
Student Senate, shrivels some more.
Gary Sinqer 
News EditorTartan Opinion Poll 
Film Program
The second in a series of such surveys by the TARTAN, the following is a poll to 
determine student interest in expanding the film program at C-MU (circa 16 
Millimeter Program, TARTAN, March 6, p.6). YOUR response can be effective in 
determining the existance and nature of such a program.
Polls may be returned through the campus mail or in person to the TARTAN 
office, Rm. 50 Skibo. Results will be publicized in a future issue of the 
TARTAN.
1.
2.
3.
5.
6.
Have you taken film courses at C-MU?
(yes no)
If so, which?
How would you evaluate the courses you took in terms of 
their professional nature?
(very professional 1 2 3 4 5 unprofessional)
Are you interested in having a film major/minor program 
at C-MU?
(yes no)
Had a film program existed at C-MU when you applied, 
would it have enhanced your interest in the school?
(yes no)
If interested in a film program at C-MU, do you think it 
should have an interdisciplinary nature?
(yes no)
If interested, what is your primary area of interest?
(Film Making Film Criticism
Script Writing Other______________________________)
8.Do you consider the lack of a more comprehensive film 
program to be a detriment to the structure of C-MU education? 
(very much 12 3 4 5 not at all)
Comments:
Will You live Crossing the Cut?
tditors Note: flow safe are you when walking on the dark cut, alone, on a late night 
when all else is perfectly still? The following statistics on on-campus crimes should set 
your minds, atleast partially, at rest. Due to current precautions taken by the C-MU 
Security Department, the crime rate has been deminished.
Robbery-defined as the theft of property directly from the possession 
of a person.
School.-Class.
1971-72 112i0006
1972-73 00010001
on adjacent streets to campus
1971-72 0030005
1972-73 00120I04
Burglary-definedas the unlawful entry of a building with the intent
of committing ;a felony therein.
1971-72 881882052491
1972-73 1341223159985
Assault
1971-72 1000317
1972-73 000000-)
Rape
1971-72 00000~)01
1972-73 0010000I
Larceny-definedas theunlawful takingof property, but not directly
from a person.
bicycle theft
1971-72 409601130
1972-73 3o4410013
assaul
1971-72 6110623836
1972-73 00321006
property stolen from exterior of vehicle
1971-72 00312006
1972-73 00201104
property stolen from interior of vehicle
1971-72 209573632
1972-73 512210213
theft of purse or wallet
1971-72 1124783944
1972-73 312449932
other larcenies
1971-72 8>1 110881057
1972-73 559171 1151072
Indecent exposure
1971-72 20022006
1972-73 21021107
Medical escort
1971-72 32106062533339289
1972-73 20186577453637288
Jul.Aug. Sept.Oct.Nov.Dec.Jan.Total
There are several possible explanations for the decrease in crime here on campus. 
Less pocketbooks and wallets are being stolen from TGIF because Security has a man 
patrollin Skibo. In the gym, there are less thefts because there is usually a security 
student aide on duty. The gates are the major psychological and physical deterrents 
for potential car thieves, and have also made several buildings inaccessible by car. I.D. 
numbers recently engraved on student valuables have also served to deter thieves.
THE TARTAN IS LOOKING AHEAD
With only three issues remaining in this semester, the 
TARTAN is looking ahead to next fall.
The editorial board is essentially remaining the same, 
but applications are being accepted for the newly created 
post of Assistant Editor.
If you are interested in this position or in working 
next fall as an ace reporter, writer, reviewer, or member of 
the expanding business staff, inquire at the TARTAN

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 20, 1973
Political Scientist, Scammon, 
Speaks at SUPA Seminar
by Tom Lang
Well known political scientist Richard 
Scammon gave a lecture entitled 'The Rep
ublicans and Democrats: Political Strat
egies for 1976, for the Professional Sem
inar Series of the School of Urban and 
Public Affairs. The current Director of the 
Elections Research Center in Washington 
D.C. spoke to an audience of SUPA faculty 
and students with some undergraduates in 
MMCC 408 on Wednesday afternoon.
Mr. Scammon began the lecture by 
referring to some of the lessons presented 
by the 1972 presidential elections and 
prefaced these remarks by pointing out the 
vast differences between the Presidential 
and local, state and congressional elections. 
One valuable lesson was the visits that 
President Nixon made to Peking and Mos
cow and how they illuminated the advan
tages of his office and enhanced the value 
of incumbency. A second event was the 
shooting of George Wallace and the sub
sequent withdrawal from the presidential 
race. The third, most important, event was 
the nomination of McGovern by the 
Democratic Party. Many of his policies led 
the large block of lower middle class voters 
to perceive him to be an extremist.
Additionally, the lack of an expected 
economic crisis, the decline of the Vietnam 
conflict into a non-issue, and the nonemergence of the much discussed new 
coalition of the black, poor and young 
voters failed to excite any substantial 
opposition to Nixon. The election, thus, 
had a hemorraging effect on the Dem
ocratic Party which was chiefly caused by 
the lack of a unified democratic policy. 
The democratic policy was as amorphous 
as a jelly fish, the only consensus was the 
opposition of Nixon, stated Scammon, 
emphatically.
With these drawbacks in mind, he pro
ceeded. to give some suggestions for pol
itical strategies for 1976. Primarily, the 
democrats need to be more attentive to the 
political demography of the nation, which 
is composed of the incomes, attitudes and 
economic status of the majority of the 
voting populace, who are largely middle 
class. They need to design policies which 
will attract this majority of voters. After 
all, the pojjtics of elections is to get the 
most votes. he stressed, The whole 
business of politics is coalitionism. And the 
whole business of coalitionism is to bring 
divergent groups together. In other words, 
you have to make an offer that they cant 
refuse.
Thus, the Democrats need to build a 
coalition for 1976 that will include those 
factions that left the party in 1972. He sees 
Ted Kennedy as a likely nominee. How
ever, the major consideration, regardless of 
the nominee, must be the building of a 
large coalition of voters, even at the ex
pense of modifying democratic ideology.
This need for change is supported by 
history. In the last seven presidential elec
tions, the people of the U.S. have voted 
over 50% democratic in only one-when 
Johnson defeated Goldwater in 64. This 
inability to build an attractive policy line 
has been largely determined by the strict 
adherence of the democrats to their ideo
logical ideals. Scammon evaluated this 
phenomenon quite succinctly. The ideolo
gical ideals. Scammon evaluated this 
phenomenon quite succinctly. The 
dividing line in politics is between those 
who moralize and those who count. The 
democrats are just beginning to learn to 
count: the republicans have always bfeen 
counting. Consequently, Scammon sees 
the democrats adopting a more conserva
tive view in the future which takes into
account the power of numbers.
Richard Scammons biographical sketch 
is quite impressive. A native of Minnesota, 
he was educated at the Universities of 
Minnesota, London (London School of 
Economics), and Michigan. In 1946, after 
six years of army service in the U.S. and 
Western Europe, Scammon worked in 
administrative and research capacities for 
the U.S. Government. He has been the 
Director of the Elections Research Center 
since 1955, a position he interrupted from 
1961-65 to serve as the Director of the 
Census.
Scammon was the Chairman of the U.S. 
delegation to observe elections in the 
U.S.S.R. in 1958, belongs to a number of 
federal advisory boards, one of which is the 
Presidents Commission on Federal Stat
istics, and is a part-time professorial lec
turer at Howard, Johns Hopkins, George 
Washington and York (Ontario) Univer
sities. He is editor of the AMERICA 
VOTES series (1956-72AMERICA AT 
THE POLLS (1965) in addition to coauthoring THIS U.S.A. (1965) and THE 
REAL MAJORITY (1970). ____________
Election 
Results
Referendum to increase and separate 
Activities Fee
Yes 357 (67%)
No 175 (33%)
President of Student Government 
Tanya Allmond 362 (54%)
Dennis Brandi 200 (46%)
[The following list includes only winners, 
(i) indicates incumbent, (w) indicate a 
write-in, (h) indicates half-term seat]
Student Senate Seats 
Graduate Students 
Ronald Myers (i) 30
Mark Sadok (w) 14
Mike McKay (w) 13 
John Boykin (w) 12 
John Donaldson (w) 7 
Jozef Kokini (wji) 6 
Gustavo Brod (wji) 5 
UFO
Willie Roy Thompson 94 
Arthur Fisher 80 
Rhonda Cohen (i) 47 
Doug Patton (wji) 36 
Dave Miexner (wji) 34 
WDC
Beverly Robinson 85 
Carol Nemetz (i) 61 
Jerilyn Dorsey (w,h) 2 
Marianne Shaffer (w,h) 2 
MDC
Ed Levine (i) 108 
James Johnston 93 
Jeff Goodman (w) 6 
Ed Karkalik (w) 6 
Steve Lee (w,h) 4 
Jeff Gruger (w,h) 2 
Commuters 
Steven D. Clark (i) 87 
Pat Stellute (i) 79 
Ed Simon (i) 70 
Joseph Pepe 66 
Bruce Hoffman (w,h) 7 
Ed Abramson (w,h) 5 
Mark Yochum (w,h) 3 
Leslie Toth (wji) 2
Independent Undergrad Residents
Gary Cirrincione 24
College Councils
C1T
Paul Dunn (w) 12
Diane Biel (w) 7 
MIS
Steve Cohen (w) 4
Photo by Henry Collins
Department Head Plans 
Major Changes for Statistics
by Debi Hildebrand
Though the Statistics Department is 
small (7 faculty and 13 or 14 students), its 
department head, Dr. Kadane, is enthu
siastic and plans some major changes. At 
the graduate level, a one-year masters 
program has been started which will deal 
mainly with applied statistics but which 
will be a flexible program where students 
can also take courses in other areas of 
interest. Well-prepared students from 
Chatham and C-MU may apply at the end 
of their Junior year and will be advised on 
courses to take in their Senior year. The 
first class will graduate this spring and Dr. 
Kadane feels that if students want to work 
with more theoretical statistics, they can 
do so on the Ph.D. level.
For undergraduates, there are plans to 
offer three sequential statistics courses as 
well as more advanced courses. Two 
courses will emphasize theorems and 
problem-selving, two will stress data 
analysis and computer work, and two will 
deal with a combination of the other 
sequences by having some computer work 
assigned as well as the use of theorems.
Dr. Kadane stresses that statistics is a
new and dynamic field. Currently, no 
undergraduate majors are being offered but 
he hopes that, either jointly with the math 
department or within itself, a major may 
soon be available. So far, the Statistics 
Department has good relations with GSIA 
and SUPA and hopes to build its relations 
with other schools. Dr. Kadane recognizes 
the importance of statistics in many 
varying fields of study.
Problems 
Anyone?
by David Bush
(This problem is of unsure origin): A 
two-dimensional lattice is the set of all 
points on a plane whose coordinates (under 
some fixed rectangular coordinate system) 
are both integers. What is the minimum 
value for m such that no matter how m 
distinct points are selected from the lattice, 
there will always be at least one pair of 
points such that a straight line segment 
connecting this pair will contain on it at 
least one other point of the lattice?How 
about a rule for determining m for any 
n-dimensional lattice?
ANSWER TO LAST WEEKS PRO
BLEM: I found only two solutions; Id be 
very interested if anyone else has found a 
solution truly unique from these two.
\ Please bring any interesting problems* 
[r solutions) to ScH 7220 on Thursdays at 
yO p.m. ________________
Dr. Kodane discusses the new statistics program.

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTS
THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 20, 1973-Page 5
Pittsburgh music lovers will have a first
chance to hear the virtuoso pianist, Gary 
Graffman, play his 25th Anniversary pro
gram which he will present in New York's 
Carnegie Hall on April 4. Appearing on the 
Y-l KC Music Series at 315 Belief ield 
Avenue in Oakland, Wednesday, March 28, 
at 8:15 p.m.; Mr. Graffman will play a 
challenging program consisting of Beet
hoven: ''Pathetique'' Sonata; Brahms: Vari
ation and Fugue on a Theme of Handel; 
Ravel: "Gaspard de la Nuit"; Scriabin: 
Etude in C-sharp minor; Balakirev: 
''Islamey'' (Oriental Fantasy). Good seats 
are still available by calling 521-8010.
Pre-Medical StudentsApplications for the
1973 Medical College Admission Test 
(MCAT) are now available in Scaife Hall 
110. Applications must be returned by 
April 13, .1973 for the test which will be 
given on May 5, 1973.
Mr. Richard Emery will be the last guest in
the School of Urban and Public Affairs 
Professional Seminar Series. Mr. Emery, 
who is Assistant to the Deputy Director of 
the National Institute of Education, HEW, 
will be on campus Wednesday, March 21. 
His public presentation, ''Federal Policy 
Development in Public Education and 
Research, will be made in MMCC 112 
from 1:30-3:00 p.m. For those who would 
like to meet and talk to Mr. Emery prior to 
his public appear-ance, however, a free 
luncheon is scheduled in Skibo, Room 
105-106 from 12:30-1:15 p.m. Please 
contact Eleanor Toker, Room MMCC 203, 
Ext. 580, by March 19 to reserve your 
place.
A Creative workshop in Music will be held
on Saturday March 31st in the College of 
Fine Arts, sponsored bv CMU Student 
Chapter of Music Educator's National Con
ference. It will be open to high school 
students and interested non-music majors. 
Purpose is opportunity for performing, dis
cussing, and experiencing many aspects of 
music as a career and avocation. In
struction available on all orchestral instru
ments, piano, and voice. Registration 
starting at 8:30 a.m. and day end with 
Student Performances of CMU students at 
3:30 p.m. Cost including lunch $4.00 per 
person or $3.00 per person in groups of 20 
or more.
Those who ran the Student Senate Polls
may pick up their money Thursday 6-7 or 
Friday 5:30-7 at Kappa Sigma. Ask for 
David Groupe. If you can't make it at this 
time leave a note for me in the men's 
comm, box in Skibo, or you wont get 
your money.
The concert by The Contemporary Music
Ensemble of Carnegie-Mellon University 
scheduled for March 21 at the WinchesterThurston Auditorium has been cancelled.
The sixth in a continuing program of noted
American writers will be held Tuesday, 
March 20, at Carnegie-Mellon University 
under the sponsorship of the department 
of English. The speaker will be Richard 
Ford, short story writer and lecturer in, 
creative writing at the University of Mich
igan. Mr. Ford will read from his own 
works in Breed Hall of Margaret Morrison 
Carnegie College at 11:30 a.m. The lecture 
is free and open to the public.
'4*4o/UTi/LC,.
119 MEYRAN AVE. PIT1SBURGH, PA.
(413) 687-1500
BOOKS, HERBS & 
BIOFEEDBACK TOOLS
Learning as Opposed to Being Educated, Access to Tools, Communications, 
Technics and Tectonics.
Biofeedback and Parapsychology, Psychedelics  Cosmos, Biologies, Spiritual 
Disciplines  Mystic Arts.
Origins, psyche. Sexuality, Mythology - Archetypal Writing, History of Cul
ture  Cities
The Eco-System Eden Eth no poetics, Eco-Politics  Global Consicousness. Guerilla Warfare  Third World, Madness and Civilization, PsychoPolitics  Manifestos.
The American Land Poets Woman Images
THE HERBAL SECTION provides a complete selection of pure teas, 
pharmaceuticals, body oils, shampoos, fine herbal perfumes, varied inex
pensive fine inceses, high quality Korean and Chinese ginseng and fine 
ginseng extracts, raw herbs and much more. Book sections include Herbals, 
Health and Pharmacology Natural Life Styles and Culinary
BIOFEEDBACK TOOLS available - demonstration models, instructions
MAILING LIST: To be added to our mailing list send name and address 
to American Horse and indicate specific fields of interest so that we can be 
of genuine use. Available are highly utilitarian bibliographies in indicated 
fields of interest, herbal catalogue and information on new services and 
sources.
Jobs both on campus and with agencies
throughout the city of Pittsburgh are 
available for the summer under the College 
Work-Study Program. Students who are 
taking classes may work an average of 15 
hrs. per week, and those not taking classes 
may work 40 hrs. per week. The WorkStudy Program, which was set up under the 
Economic Opportunity Act to create, 
additional jobs for needy students, will run 
this summer from May 29 through August 
25. Positions are open on campus for 
library assistants, and in various depart
ments for lab assistants, research assistants 
and clerical work. Off campus jobs include 
tutorial, recreational, arts and crafts and 
clerical. Any student who has filed a 
Parents' Confidential Statement for the 
coming academic year 1973-74 is eligible 
to apply. Applications are due in the 
Financial Aid Office no later than April 10, 
1973.
On Monday, April 9, the Department of
History presents "The Dybbuk", a motion 
picture version made in Poland in 1938 of 
S. Ansky's famous play about demoniacal 
possession in an Eastern European 
Chassidic Jewish community. English 
subtitles. At 2:30 and 7:30, Doherty 2210. 
The film lasts two hours.
Graduate Student Tutoring in Science and
Engineering is available. Check your 
department for details. Some tutors 
request pay.
The opening night of Spring Carnival will
once again be highlighted by a fantastic 
fireworks display. This year's display will 
be partly financed by a fund raising drive 
to be held during the preceeding week. 
Your cooperation will be needed during 
this funding drive. It will be even more 
essential, however, on the football field at 
9:00 p.m., Thursday, April 12. This year's 
fireworks promise to be a most unfor
gettable part of a most unforgettable 
weekend, so; be there ... or be square!!!
Presentation by CMU alumnus, Major
Michael S. Ellegood, Corps of Engineers, 
USA, on the "Green Acres Office Building 
Project" at Fort Monmouth, N.J. This 
presentation will serve to illustrate the 
correlation between an individual's edu
cational background and his assignment in 
the Army. LocationBreed Hall, Rm. 103, 
Margaret Morrison Bldg., March 22, 1973,
11:30 a.m. Open to the public.
On Saturday March 24, the CarnegieMellon Karate Club will host its annual 
Sparring Tournament. Participating in the 
tournament will be the University of 
Illinois, the University of Pittsburgh, 
Duquesne University and Carnegie-Mellon 
University. The tournament will start at 
1:30 in Thistle Hall of the CMU Gym. The 
tournament is open to the public and 
admission is Free.
The second part of a two part program
examining the course of individual 
liberties, the power of the presidency, and 
freedom of the press in the United States, 
will be held Tuesday, March 20, at C-MU. 
The March 20th program, "Freedom of 
Expression: The Media," will feature rep
resentatives from major Western Pennsyl
vania media discussing freedom of the press 
and recent developments concerning 
reporter's rights and privileges. The forum 
is scheduled for 7:30 p.m. in the Wherrett 
Room of Skibo, the campus student activi
ties center, and is free and open to the 
public.
The Graduate School of Public Health of
Harvard University announces a new 
graduate degree program to prepare college 
graduates for careers as health planners, 
analysts or managers. The curriculum is 
designed to develop new kinds of health 
professionals with sophistication in 
medicine and health and with the mana
gerial and analytic skills needed in 
policy-making and in- operating health 
agencies in government and the private 
sector. Faculty members of the John F. 
Kennedy School of Government and of the 
Harvard Graduate School of Business 
Administration will also take part in the 
instruction. Applicants must have demon
strated strength in the biological sciences 
and mathematics. Write for brochure and 
application form to: The Registrar,
Harvard School of Public Health, 55 
Shattuck Street, Boston, Massachusetts 
02115.
Charles Swope will perform for Senior
Trombone Recital on Wednesday, March 
21st at 8:30 p.m. in Exhibition Hall, 
College of Fine Arts. Works to be per
formed by Barat, Faure, Hindemith, 
Handel (arranged by trombone teacher Mr. 
McCulloh) and premiere of specially 
written piece by Leccas.
CLASSIFIED ADS
REWARD! Set of keys lost in vicinity of
Baker Hall/Skibo, on key chain attached to 
orange rectangular plate. Call 683-5477.
REWARD! Set of keys in small black
leather case. Contact Cheryl, Box 117, 
1000 Morewood Ave. or 683-5477.
3 BR. house,, sublet for summer, Shadyside
area, $175/month plus utilities. Call
441-9797 after 5:00.
Housemate wanted: to share co-ed house
cooperatively. Private Bedrooms, $83 mo. 
687-3216.
LOST: Ladies gold wristwatch in or
between Margaret Morrison, Skibo, and 
Morewood Sunday, Mar. 11, 6-8:15 p.m. 
Please, please return. 682-9487 or house 
phones 76 or 77.
PERSONALS-------------------------
Dearest Anna,
Lovely body on the shore,
But not with Ed Levine,
So I love Denise Montay 
At least you know I'm clean.
Modestly yours, 
Carl
OAKLAND HARDWARE & TOY CO.
CMU's Convenient Headquarters 
fot Hardware
* Desk Lamps * Key Service * Artist Brushes
* Hot Plates * Poster Paints ^ School Supplies
3606 Forbes Avenue OAKLANO Phone 621*0923

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6TH TARTAN-Tuesday, March 20, 1973
Up Your Image!
by Chris Infante and S. Breisch
Last Thursday, Skibo became a center 
of education and consciousness-raising 
activity about the problems and potential 
of women in contemporary society.
After Vh hours of films in the Wherrett 
Room, the main part of the program began 
with a talk by WQEDs political reporter, 
Linda Goldstein at 1:00 P.M.
The Medium is the Message: But How is 
the Message Created?Linda Goldstein
Unless there is someone specifically 
assigned to womens news, the stations 
assignment editor determines what stories 
should be covered. When a reporter gets a 
particular assignment, such as covering the 
Senates Equal Rights Amendment hearing 
last year, it is generally up to him or her 
how it is handled. If there is a bias, it is 
sometimes reflected. Linda Goldstein 
made this statement about the media in her 
talk The Medium is the Message: But How 
is the Message Created? Ms. Goldstein is a 
graduate of the University of Pittsburgh 
where she was editor of the Pitt News. 
After she graduated, she went on to receive 
her Masters in Communications at Boston 
University because she felt this would 
enable her to be thought of as a \serious 
political writer. She is presently a political 
researcher, reporter, and writer for WQED. 
and she stressed the importance of 
qualified and trained women in careers.
Returning to the image of the Womens 
Movement in the Media, Ms. Goldstein 
stated that some women in the Movement 
have enhance the bias of reporters and 
cameramen by how they treat them. Their 
approach is all wrong. They expect the 
worst and they show it. I have heard 
certain women make all kinds of 
accusations against male reporters and 
cameramen, making the instant assumption 
that they will deal with them unfairly. And 
what this does is trigger a reaction which 
often causes the reporters and cameramen 
to paint the women in the worst possible
light. I feel women in the movement are 
not as sensitive to the Public Relations 
aspect of their cause as they should be. If 
they were more cooperative and helpful to 
the news media, they really would get 
much better coverage.
Not only is this aspect of her field 
frustrating but she also went on to say that 
women in political reporting take a lot of 
abuse; foremost, they are not taken 
seriously.
Ms. Goldstein concluded her talk 
stressing the point to choose the career you 
want. Dont allow others to type you. 
Dont be afraid to select the profession you 
want, particularly if it is one women don't 
traditionally choose. In 1970, she was the 
only woman travelling for the state 
covering the convention. But now we are 
more aware. We have more protection and 
we dont have to be as afraid. The media 
needs us if for no other reason than to get 
their licenses approved by the FCC. So 
please do get in there and fight. I assure 
you, it is all worth it.
WORKSHOPS
Next ran a series of workshops dealing 
with the functions of the female body, 
various life styles and the molding process 
in education. The most unfortunate thing 
about these sessions was that within the 
alotted time it was practically impossible 
to get to all of them!
Women: A New Biological Perspective 
Marilyn Goldsmith
Marilyn Goldsmith was especially 
informative and attempted to destroy some 
of the myths concerning the female body. 
The workshop took on a question and 
answer form with Ms. Goldsmith, from the 
Department of Biology at the University of 
Pittsburgh, openly exploring and explain
ing most of the groups questions.
She expressed serious concern with the 
VD epidemic on college campuses across 
the nation. Since certain symptoms are
Eye-catching displays attracted passers by..
not as easily detectable in women as in 
men she urged most women to have exams 
for VD frequently. As to how hormones 
effect the female body she revealed that 
most of the research being done is so 
contradictory that there simply isnt 
enough \j6 go on. Assuredly, though, there 
is a direct correlation between mood-even 
motivation and hormonal balance.
Much of the discussion focused on the 
newer self-examination techniques. Ms. 
Goldsmith favors self-help methods, begun 
originally in California, with the sole ex
ception of menstrual extraction. Mens
trual extraction is an early abortion tech
nique but is often used to extract the 
entire uterine lining, thereby shortening 
the days of the menstrual flow. But she 
warned that women undergoing such 
measures, especially regularly, should be
Photo by Carl Grefenstatte
aware of the dangers involved, including 
the possible penetration of the uterine 
wall, or some later difficulty that may be 
encountered in childbirth.
The importance of self-examination 
however is not to be dismissed. It is a 
technique in which women are taught by 
gynecologists to examine themselves and 
other women. According to Marilyn Gold
smith self-help demystifies what takes 
place in the gynecologists office as well as 
enables a woman to keep track of her
self.
The atmosphere in the faculty lounge 
was one of overwhelming concern. And the 
groups sincerity was matched with Ms. 
Goldsmiths earnest efforts to talk in ways 
some gynecologists will not-speaking of 
demystification.
Marilyn Goldsmith attempted to destroy some of the rriyths 
concerning*the female body.
Photo by Carl Grefenstette
Linda Goldstein of WQED spoke about her experiences.
Photo by Carl Grefenstette
kife Styles: An Open Classroom Situ
ation
The open classroom on lifestyles turned 
into a workshop with everyone talking 
about their own experience. Maybe that is 
the best way to learn, but at some points, 
(to quote a favorite journalist) egos were 
taking wing. What started as an exchange 
of communal, cohabitational and gay life
styles turned into a gay workshop. 
Undoubtedly, this was because few in the 
group had any knowledge on gay living. 
Some of the women, who had been living 
together, are raising children. When a few 
doubted their competency, the women 
were quick to add that their children will 
develop in their own ways. When others
feared that the children would be raised 
gay, one woman said that their children 
will always see heterosexuality on the 
streets and retorted besides, dont 
heterosexual parents raise gay children? 
Generally the group agreed that most 
problems came from organized society.
As for the ever present question Is 
lesbianism a reaction against men? the 
answer was simple, No, its a reaction to 
women! It was also pointed out that there 
are political lesbians who do not engage in 
sex with other females but who do not 
want to have intercourse with male 
institutions!
The second fifty minute workshop 
session was spent on equal legal rights and 
career opportunities.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, March 20, 1973Page 7
Helene Borke discussed education.
Photo by Kevin Scott
Education: The Molding ProcessHelene 
Borke/Joan Burstyn
The implication that hormonal and 
physiological differences affect a womans 
personality and career choice is a familiar 
statement. These differences, according to 
certain schools of thought, make the 
woman passive, emotional, incompetent 
and naturally  adept for careers in 
nursing, teaching, or as an airline 
stewardess while men are dominant, 
competent, and assertive and are 
naturally adept for careers in science, 
law, math. Helene Borke, a C-MU Assistant 
Professor of Child Development and 
Psychology stated that in our society any 
exceptions to these roles for men and 
women are either discounted or the deviant 
person is assumed as not quite normal. 
In the workshop she conducted with Joan 
Burstyn, a C-MU Assistant Professor of 
Psychology and Director of Teacher Edu
cation, she showed proff that it is not so 
much hormonal and physiological dif 
ferences but cultural differences.
One example which Ms. Borke cited for 
support is a study done by Margaret Mead 
in the 1930s of three New Guinea tribes. 
Both sexes of one tribe were peaceful; both 
sexes of another tribe were more violent; 
and the third society she studied consisted 
of what western man might call a role 
reversal The women of the third society 
were dominant and impersonal; the men 
less responsible, more emotional, and were 
described as spending hours on personal 
toilet. Russia provides another example 
where women have moved into male 
roles despite than the U.S. of women ir 
male careers as shown by these figures:
USSR USA
pure scientists 40% 9%
doctors 70% 31%
engineers 31% 1%
With evidence such as these two cultures 
provide, Ms. Borke thinks there should be a 
radical debunking of the myths within 
Western society.
The role an individual accepts depends 
upon the values and knowledge he or she 
receives during the process of socialization. 
In this process, the family and the school 
or educational system play an important 
part. At the early age of four, children 
usually have acquired what their role 
should be. Ms. Borke reports that if four 
year old girls are asked what they want to 
be, most will reply a mother or nurse; most 
boys at this age will reply a fireman, a 
doctor, or some career that is masculine. 
She continued to say that toys in this 
society are reinforcements for stereotyped
I female and male roles. 34% of all toys 
which cost five dollars and over are made 
for boys while at the same price level there 
are 1S% made for girls. Masculine toys are 
more complex, more social and the fact 
that three out of four chemistry sets have1 
pictures of males on their labels 
immediately marks toys as an ftnportant 
factor in the development of the child.
The workshop agreed that when 
children are sent to school, they can be 
further molded to fit into a sexist 
society by books, teachers and limited 
curriculum. Books depict grils as being 
passive and playing dolls inside while boys 
are active and are in leadership roles. 
Teachers are also another vehicle of 
possible sexist attitudes since they pass on 
their own biases. The curriculum of schools 
can be limited so that not all courses are 
open to both sexes. All these circumstances 
mold the child to conform to a certain 
value, and the frightening aspect is that a 
lot of discrimination is done uncon
sciously. One woman in the workshop 
stated, The traditional values of men ai)d 
women have become so ingrained that they 
are regarded as natural. People pass on 
their bias through books, in th classroom 
without even knowing it.
The importance of role modeling was 
also stressed in the workshop. Women 
need other women who have made it to 
model themselves after. With the growth of 
the Womens Movement, now this can be 
done.
Joan Burstyn'Children are molded 
unconsciously.'
Photo bv Kevin Sr.ntt
Up Your Image: the title and slogan of the program.Photo by Kevin Scott
Legal Rights for Women-Ruth Beach/Tom 
Kerr
Even if you doubted the necessity of 
the Equal Rights Amendment prior to 
entering this workshop, you would have 
been willing to wage war for its passage by 
the end of the period. As Dr. Thomas Kerr 
pointed out, sure equality is granted by the 
Constitution and women will eventually be 
treated as equals to men in all accounts, 
but why wait until every form of sex 
discrimination is argued in court?
Speaking on the changing status of 
women, Dr. Kerr cited a number of rules, 
laws and customs that although uncon
stitutional, even ludicrous, remain on the 
books. For example, did you know that 
prostitution is a crime committed by 
women only? Or that in Texas a man can 
kill the man he finds with his wife but the 
law doesnt provide for the wife killing the 
woman she finds with her husband! Fine 
place that Texas. Whether the law is 
ridiculous or not the importance of getting 
it off the books is to declare the equality 
of women .openly so that in no instance 
may an employer or legislator fall *back
upon some outdated law that permits sex 
discrimination.
The urgency of the passage of the Equal 
Rights Amendment (incidentally, 28 states, 
including Pennsylvania, have voted in its 
favor; ERA needs 10 more) is to hasten 
equal treatment for women; according to 
Kerr, with one sweep it would eliminate 
thousands of laws.
The one exception, Dr. Beach said 
involves a bona fide occupation that is 
connected with sex, say actor or actress or 
model for lingerie. Ruth Beach throughout 
the remainder of the session explained the 
purpose of the Affirmative Action Office, 
which she directs, as * whatever we have to 
do to get things done in the way of equal 
employment in this university. Both Drs. 
Kerr and Beach expressed optimism over 
the changing status of women and were 
especially confident that single women of 
child bearing age will not be denied credit, 
mortgages, etc., due to sex.
P.S. Incidentally, customs are changing: 
Taking your husbands name is not 
required in a surprising number of states, 
including Pennsylvania.
continued on the following page
Literature was available for those who wanted it.Photo by Carl Grefenstette

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8THE TARTANTuesday, March 20, 1973
Shirley Angrist, Jane Cookson and Irene 
Pasinsky discussed career opportunities.
Photo by Kevin Scott
How to Beat the System: Career Oppor
tunitiesIrene Pasinsky/Jane Cookson/
Shirley Angrist
The workshop entitled How to Beat 
the SystemCareer Opportunities ex
plored the avenues that three successful 
women took on their way to the top in 
each of their careers and gave advice for 
women entering a career.
Irene Pasinski is an Industrial Designer 
and is president of her own company. She 
stated, I was always interested in art and 
assumed I would be an art teacher. I never 
made up my mind until I was at Tech and 
had to choose my option. She later 
obtained a Fullbright Scholarship to 
continue her studies, and then went to 
Europe where she decided to specialize in 
dinner-ware. Ms. Pasinski moved back to 
the U.S., was able to place her products on 
the market and started her own business. 
She stressed that women are badly 
needed in Urban and Interior Design but 
that it does require certain kinds of 
sacrifices that arent worthwhile unless you 
really enjoy your job.
Jane Cookson was formerly a scientist 
for Gulf Oil Corporation and is now a 
stockbroker and Vice President of 
C.S.McKee Company. She switched to
financing because she wanted to work with 
people and was intensely interested in the 
stockmarket. Ms. Cookson advises women 
that want to go into this field to go to 
talent-hungry companies. If girls want 
opportunities, do not go to the talent-rich, 
big companies but go to the small com
panies where they must work to minimize 
all the abilities of the workers. There is no 
limit for a girl in this field. Promotion 
ability is greater and, irt some cases, clients 
have a bias toward women.
The final speaker at this workshop was 
Shirley Angrist who is a C-MU Associate 
Professor in SUPA. She recalled being in 
high school and deciding that she was going 
to be a something, somebody, but never 
was .quite sure. I went to college, but I 
didnt know what I wanted to be until I 
took sociology. Ms. Angrist later went on 
to get her Ph.D. in Sociology, but stated 
that it wasnt all smooth, there peaks and 
troughs. Despite all of her accomplish 
ments she said, I have not arrived. I have a 
lot moTe roads to travel, a lot more 
challenging positions to take on.
After the three women gave their talks, 
a discussion involving the entire workshop 
began. The topic of mobilitywhere e 
women are automatically regarded as 
immobilewas brought up and Ms. 
Cookson replied, Basically, fellow women 
have done this. You are dealing with 
prejudice because they have had bitter 
experiences. One man told me he went out 
on the line to hire a woman who stayed 
only two years and quit. It is best to be 
straightforward and honest with them. You 
can convince them of your worth.
During the discussion there was a dis
agreement about how a woman should 
react if she feels she is being treated in a 
sexist manner. An example would be if she 
were asked to make coffee or, as one 
woman said, discouraged to go to the big 
companies and fight for a job. Ms. 
Cookson answered, It depends on how 
much you want to fight. She stated sha 
took the job with C.S. McKee Company 
because she felt it had more opportunity. 
Ms. Angrist closed the meeting with the 
statement that it is in our interest to 
fight. We must be entrepreneurs.
Ms. Pasinski added that talent, drive and 
motivation will make the difference. 
These attributes are recognized in men and 
women.
Each situation a women encounters in a 
career is a unique situation. With this in 
mind, the members of the panel expressed 
that a woman should adapt her strategy to 
whatever action would be most be 
beneficial.
Dr. Pauline Bart from the University of Illinois was the highlight of 
the program.Photo by Ellen Eddy
Psychiatry of Women: Madness and
NormalcyDr. Pauline Bart
Highlighting the entire program was a 
speech delivered by Dr. Pauline Bart of the 
University of Illinois Medical Center. 
Speaking on the Psychiatry of Women: 
Madness and Normalcy, she began with her 
own history as a housewife. Frankly, it 
was driving me nuts. Dr. Bart accepted 
the traditional role of women as housewife-maid-and-mother because, as she 
claims, there was no alternative in the 
50s in this sexist society. Throughout the 
remainder of the discourse she elaborated 
on sexism, predominantly in health care. 
While it is true that women are more 
likely to be mental patients, this is due to 
depression which she attributes to the 
position of women in society.
Dr. Barts particular interest is medical 
education. She is outraged that the authors 
of medical textbooks continue to write in 
sexist tones. In fact, she added, in 13 of 
the 37 gynecological textbooks the 
fundamental biological function of women 
is motherhoqd! Dr. Bart has written and 
researched an article entitled A Funny 
Thing Happened on the Way to the Orifice: 
Women in Gynecological Textbooks from 
which she took most of her factual
-A
' wm **.
*
li
information.
The hour went quickly. Dr. Bart was an 
unusually fast, fluent, exhuberant speaker 
and one immediatley laughed at her keen 
sense of irony, but nevertheless felt an 
equal sense of dissatisfaction with a sexist 
society.
According to Freud, every woman 
wants a penis. She elaborated that 
simply because intercourse is a thrust 
movement on the part of the male, it 
doesnt mean all women are passive. One 
textbook claims that the traits that 
compose the female personality are 
feminine narcissism, masochism and 
passivity! And if you think women are 
really getting somewhere, she added, 
youre crazy!
Two-thirds of the books she examined 
maintain that men have a greater sex drive; 
half believe that procreation is the major 
function of sex for the female and some 
incredibly hang on to the myth that all 
women are basically frigid. Since men, as 
Dr. Bart sees it, are still running the show 
in medicine and in everything else, it is 
mandatory that the textbooks and atti
tudes be changed. Presently psychiatrists 
attempt to fit the distressed woman back 
into her prescribed social role, thereby 
making her abnormally normal rather 
abnormally abnormal, which is what she is 
if she rejects the role!
By the end of her lecture, she success
fully convinced the audience that the real 
madness was normal woman and the 
only cure was to fight it as women.
After every program, there comes a time 
to determine its effectiveness. And in this 
particular instance did it up anyones image?
The attempt of Up Your Image to 
explore as many phases of the problems 
confronting women as possible more than 
made up for its convention-like format. If 
anything, all women participants served to 
reinforce a land of oneness in strength that 
apparently is needed to help us meet and 
change standards.
But the most disappointing fact was the 
poor attendance, especially of males. 
Except for a token few men who were 
present for each session, one cant help but 
wonder if this only reestablished the fact 
that women are treated unequally by not 
being taken seriously.
Sexism was heatedly argued.Photo by Kevin Scott

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 20, 1973-Page
WRCT Inaugurates 
New Radio Concept
by Mitch (Jreenberg
WRCT/900 will inaugurate a new series 
of innovative radio broadcasts, presenting a 
potpourri of programs, making full use of 
the communication capabilities that the 
medium of radio offers to the listener. 
Weekdays from 8:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. 
programs of varied interests with some
thing for everyone will be aired.
MONDAYS the C-MU English 
departments Noted American Author 
Series presenting top contemporary writers 
reading their own works will be offered.
TUESDAYS and THURSDAYS from 8 
p.m. to 8:30 the C-MU Music Departments 
Greatest Hits will provide the listener with 
broadcasts of memorable concerts from the 
departments rich musical heritage.
TUESDAYS and THURSDAYS from 
8:30 to 9:00 p.m. You Cant Tell a Book 
by Its Cover, will bring literary master
pieces right into your living room. Join 
WRCT for Alice in Wonderland by Lewis
Carroll on Tuesdays and Kurt Vonneguts 
Cats Cradle on Thursdays.
WEDNESDAYS from 8 to 9 p.m. Busy 
Signal will be your direct line to the 
publics ear. Call WRCT at 621-9728 or 01 
in Morewood Gardens and let your opinion
be known.
FRIDAYS, The Plays the Thing will 
present radio dramas from antiques like 
The Shadow to modern day farces like 
Ionescos The Bald Soprano.
SATURDAYS from 5 to 6 let Did Ja 
Hear the One About tickle your funny 
bone with the literary and comic genius 
of our era.
SUNDAYS join the WRCT Ace News 
Team as they bring you Perspective 
C-MU, in depth interviews with the 
people making the news on campus and in 
the city and state, at 6:00 p.m.
Remember to join WRCT for its new 
concept in radio activity.
Some of the delicacies to be had on Israeli Day.Photo by Rick Werme
C-MU Celebrates 
Jsraeli Day
Kunitz to Read 
at Poetry Forum
by Debbie Siegel
Carnegie-Mellon was treated to a 
sampling of a foreign food delicacy last 
Tuesday, courtesy of Bnai Brith Hillel, in 
honor of the State of Israels 25th Anni
versary of achieving Statehood.
Falafel became more than a tongue 
twister to those students who took the 
opportunity to try this Israeli dish. Con
sisting of a conglomeration of crumbly 
substance, salad, and creamy sauce made of 
crushed chick peas, which is all placed in a 
flat bread, the Falafel was very well 
received by the more adventurous 
Carnegie-Melloners.
In addition to food being served on 
March 13, there were other displays 
providing a taste of the Israeli culture. 
Tapes of Israeli music played throughout 
the day and there was a running slide 
presentation showing landmarks in Israel. 
One could buy hand-made silver jewelry 
which many Israelis make their living on 
or key chains of olive wood. A display of 
photographs showed how the Israelis live 
in different walks of life from the 
communes called Kibbutzes to the girls 
serving compulsory military. Many tables 
were devoted to various literature put out 
by organizations such as EL AL, the Israeli 
airlines, American Friends of Tel Aviv 
University, and American Zionist Youth 
Foundation. Such pamphlets were designed 
to show the Americans all Israel can offer.
One of the most stimulating parts of the 
day is that there were in general a lot 
Israelis present. Many are attending uni
versities in the states or else teaching. The 
usual reaction about the states is that they 
offer a lot, but an Israeli could not possibly 
see settling here permanently.
Here is a conversation I had with one of 
the Israelis: Why did you come to
America? I came because I wanted to see 
my cousins and I just finished serving in 
the Israeli Army. I wanted a vacation. 
(Israelis serve in the army at age 18, right 
after they graduate high school.) Do you 
like it here? Yes. you have a lot to offer in 
this country, but look at the way people 
feel about this country. Theres no sense of 
togetherness. In Israel, at least we have a 
cause which we all care about. Dont many
Israelis resent when Americans come over 
and want to assimilate into the culture? 
No, we want you to come because Israel 
has a lot to offer and sometime, you even 
to get to do more what you want to there 
in terms of career.
At 12:30, there was a slide presentation 
of Masada which is Herods royal citadel 
and the last outpost of the Zealots during 
the Jewish war against Rome. Situated on 
top of an isolated rock on the edge of the 
Judean Desert, Dead Sea Valley, it was 
very picturesque.
The Israeli film, Three Days and a Child, 
which won first prize in the 1966 Cannes 
Fjlm Festival, was shown at night to 
conclude the Israeli Day at C-MU. A similar 
celebration will take place today, March
20, at the Pitt Student Union Ballroom. 
There will be live entertainment at 8 p.m.
Stanley Kunitz, recipient of the Pulitzer 
Prize for SELECTED POEMS 1928-1958, 
will read from his works on March 21 at 
8:30 P.M. in Carnegie Lecture Hall. Mr. 
Kunitz will appear under the auspices of 
the International Poetry Forum. Widely 
hailed as a poet, critic and teacher, Stanley 
Kunitz includes among his many honors a 
Guggenheim Fellowship, Poetrys Levinson 
Prize and the Brandeis Creative Arts Medal 
for distinguished contribution to 
American poetry.
Mr. Kunitz is also the author of 
INTELLECTUAL THINGS, PASSPORT 
TO WAR and THE TESTING TREE, 
which includes his translations from the 
Russian of Yevtushenko. Kunitz was a 
major contributor to the English transCOUNSELING 
PEER HELP CENTER
687-7414BAKER HALL 150-A
Applications Being Accepted 
for C-MU Film Festival
Every year, despite academic pressures, 
limited equipment and the lack of a sub
stantial film program, a significant number 
of films are produced by C-MU students. 
The yearly culmination of this filmmaking 
activity is the annual C-MU Student Film 
Festival. This years festival will be held on 
April 6 and 7 and all student filmmakers 
are being urged to submit their work 
before the April 2 deadline.
The festival, a completely (and 
fervently) non-competitive event, is 
designed to give the campus community an 
opportunity to view the cinematic efforts 
of fellow students and at the same time 
give campus filmmakers an audience for 
their films. While time limitations will be 
placed on the program, every effort will be 
made to show as many, if not all, of the 
entries that are received. The only criterion 
for entries is that they exhibit a high 
regard for film as a creative medium.
Both 16mm films (silent, or with 
magnetic, optical or external soundtracks) 
and 8mm/Super 8 (silent, or magnetic or 
external tracks) will be accepted. If ex
ternal tapes are used they must be recorded
at ips., should have both recorder and 
visual starting marks and should begin at 
the beginning of the reel. In addition all 
cans, boxes and leaders should be 
thoroughly labeled.
Applications and additional information 
are available at the Skibo information desk. 
If any further information is needed write 
to the Film Workshop, Skibo 103, Campus 
Mail or contact Jim Oppenheimer 
682-8960.
lation of ANTIWORLDS, the selected 
work of the Russian poet, Andrei Voznesesnsky. He is the editor of 
TWENTIETH CENTURY AUTHORS, 
EUROPEAN AUTHORS and other stan
dard works of literary reference. He is 
currently associated with the newly estab
lished Graduate School of Writing at 
Columbia University.
Tickets are available at Kaufmanns, 
Gimbels, Hornes, downtown, and the 
Student Unions of the University of Pitts
burgh and Duquesne University. Individual 
tickets are $2.50, and student tickets are
SI .75.
The International Poetry Forum is spon
sored by the Carnegie Library under an 
endowment from the A.W. Mellon Edu
cational and Charitable Fund.
SAE Wins Greek Sins
Winners have been announced for 
Carnegie-Mellon Universitys Greek Sing, 
an annual singing competition among the 
fraternities and sororities, held this year at 
Carnegie Music Hall Friday, March 9.
Sigma AlphaEpsilon fraternity won first 
place in the fraternity division with 
Selections from Fiddler on the Roof " 
The second place fraternity was Sigma Nu.
In the mixed fraternity and sorority 
competition. Kappa Alpha Theta sorority 
and Alpha Tau Omega fraternity won first 
place with Night and Day and Mame." 
Chi Omega sorority and Phi Kappa Theta 
fraternity were second and Delta Gamma 
sorority and Tau Delta Phi fraternity were 
third.
The awards were presented at the Greek 
Swing, a semi-formal dance, held 
subsequent to the competition.
REGAL NOTES
UNDERSTAND PLAYS, NOVELS and POEMS 
FASTER WITH OUR NOTES
Woro now ond wo'ro tho bigost* Thousonds of 
topic* roviawod. for quickor undorstonding. Oof 
sublets includo not only Engluh, but Anthro
pology, Art, Block Studio*, Ecology, Economict, Education, History, Low, Mutic, 
Philosophy, Politico! Scionco, Psychology, 
Rolifion, Scionco, Sociology ond Urban Prob
lems. Sand $2 for your catalog of topics ovoilablo.
REGAL NOTES 
3160 "O" Stroot, N.W. 
Washington, D. C. 20007 
Tal phono: 202-333-0201

---------------------------------------------------

Jc.ge 10THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 20, 1973
An Interview With Tom Kerr
' i t( > V's" |
Tom Kerr, recently installed head of AMSPhoto by Rie Werne
bj Shelley Burhans & Gary Singerand so forth. I can also give them advice 
about the law school aptitude test and talk 
fEd. Note: Professor Thomas Kerr,y a^out t^ie varius law schools that are 
recently installed head of the Administra- ac*v*sable t0 aPPty to*icn and Management Science School, is a Tartan. How many specific pre-law courses
noted lawyer and head of the Pennsylvania
?ivil Liberties Union. In the following 
nterview he discussed issues ranging from 
urrent ACLU cases (Pittsburgh Press) to 
he new provost system at CMU The two 
ampus events discusses here at which Kerr 
poke are covered elsewhere in this issue 
Up Your Image and Prognosis). ]
Tartan: Professor Kerr, can you give us an 
dea as to what the status of P-ACLU is 
ight now, in terms of what they are in/olved in and what you, specifically, are 
nvolved in?
<.err: Civil Liberties is a very broad topic; 
t has to do with anything which could 
;ome under the Bill of Rights of the 
Constitution, and the 13th, 14th, and 15th 
Amendments. There are, of course 
lundreds of particular cases that are' peniing. Perhaps the most important local case 
la to do with the advertisements in the 
^tisburgh Press which are Jobs-Male 
nierest and Jobs-Female Interest, and Jobs 
4ale/Female. The question of whether the 
rcss can be enjoined from this practice in 
he interest of equal employment oppor
tunity for either sex is before the Supreme 
"oart of the United State. The case has 
_Pa been fully briefed and will be set 
.own for argument within a month. I 
.uppose thats the most interesting local 
Hi ter of national importance thats going 
)n right now.
rartan: Are you personally working on this
*ase?
<crr: Yes, the local ACLU and the national 
\( LU are working on it; the national 
\CLU has a brief, and were working with 
>eople locally who are preparing the case. 
rartan: Do any of the students here
are now offered here?
Kerr: There are about eight courses speci
fically on law that are available somewhere 
around the campus. Then, of course, the 
law schools dont look for any particular 
undergraduate record. A person in Civil 
Engineering can go into law, as can a 
person in any one of the departments we 
have. But once he becomes interested in 
law he ought to find out about the apti
tude tests and law schools and that sort of 
thing.
Tartan: What is the extent of your work 
with Womens Rights. Is it specifically 
concerned right now in dealing with the 
Pittsburgh Press issue?
Kerr: That, of course, is a pending case. 
There are also things that come up in 
business and at some of the universities 
where people ask my advice, and as you 
know were going to have a program on the 
subject in which I was invited to partici
pate. There will also be a program on the 
Presidency, and the effect of the acts of 
the President on Civil Liberties.
Tartan: What will you cover in your speech? 
Kerr: Im going to talk about the things the 
President is doing which may invade and 
endanger personal liberty. There are lots of 
issues, here, questions of threats to the 
freedom of the press, such as the Pentagon 
papers case, and cases causing reporters to 
disclose their sources; questions of whether 
the present administration intends to close 
down the Neighborhood Legal Services, 
which give much-needed legal aid to the 
poor. . . ; questions of the misuse of grand 
juries. I supposed the ultimate and most 
important question is, What kind of 
people does he put on the Supreme Court 
of the U.S.?>e< ome involved in any of the ACLU cases? __ u . , ... , r  ,J, Tartan: What do you think of Senator s<err: Sometimes pre-law students do,
hough not on this particular case.
Tarfan: What is the status of the pre-law 
program here, as it stands?
Keir: There is a pre-law major, sort of 
^elf-defined, in H&SS, and anyone whos 
jiterested in that comes to see me. Im 
ore aw advisor, and can give them the list 
of courses that they might choose to take,
Grovners proposal that the legal drinking 
age be lowered in this state?
Kerr: I dont know anything about his 
particular language, but with respect to the 
issue, as I understand it, Ohio, New York 
and New Jersey all have a legal age of 
eighteen. It seems to me that if people are 
considered adults for other purposes, they
can be considered adults for this purpose. 
Also, I think institutions should be a little 
concerned if theyre near a border where 
on one side one can drink at 18 and on the 
other, one can drink only if hes 21.1 think 
the institution should be concerned about 
people driving to some other place, having 
a few drinks that they might otherwise be 
able to control, but having to drive home. 
If they come home a little rapidly, if they 
come home in the dark, if they come home 
a little inebriated, there might be a tragic 
accident. Id rather see uniformity of the 
laws; Id rather see people drink home than 
at a distant place.
Tartan: President Cyert has requested that 
the Faculty Senate obtain a license for 
serving liquor here on Friday nights.
Kerr: I do not know about that request; I 
dont imagine it would be any difficulty to 
get a license.
Tartan: What is your view of the pollution 
variance situation?
Kerr: I think the pollution variance ought 
to be. When I grew up the air was clear and 
the water was clear and I deplore all 
changes that have diluted that since. 1 
Tartan: What about the University asking 
for variance now?
Kerr: I am not privy to that question. 
Tartan: How do you see the provost sys
tem, now that provosts have been installed?
Kerr: I think, organizationally, that its a 
good idea. It gives the president a chance 
to have two senior advisors who are able to 
split up the responsibility and to have a 
leader directly over one-half of the univer
sity who can report to him. I am personally 
acquainted with both men and theyre very 
capable. I think its going to work out very 
well.
Tartan: Dr. Weber is reputedly leaning 
greatly toward the statistical in the social 
sciences program he is helping along. Is 
this going to affect AMS soon?
Kerr:By statistical, I suppuse you mean 
mathematical and analytical...1 rather think 
that the reverse is so. GSIA leads the world 
in mathematical, analytical approach to 
management problems. I suspect that Dr. 
Weber will continue that emphasis, because 
GSIA is actually great in that area. But I 
think hell want to expand our interest 
some, not from more statistical but from 
some general approach to problems. 
Concerning AMS and the undergrad pro
gram here, is it as rigid as GSIA and do 
many of the undergraduates go on to GSIA? 
Kerr: We have a 3.2 program, here, where
by in their junior year 4 to 8 of our stu
dents who wish to do so elect to take a 
five-year program and graduate from GSIA. 
Tartan: What is the enrollment in AMS? 
Kerr: This year we have 36 seniors, 41 
juniors and approximately 40 sophomores. 
The freshmen are under CIT.
Tartan: Professor Kerr, are you working on 
any new plans of programs now?
Kerr: One thing that we will add next year 
will be an advanced accounting course that 
we have not had before. It was requested 
by about 12 of our present juniors, and is a 
darn good idea. Professor Ijiri will teach it, 
who is very good. We are going to change 
our statistics program, next year. The 
juniors get a full year of statistics, and this 
will be under the statistics department for 
the first time.
Tartan: Does the GSIA faculty also cover 
AMS?
Kerr: GSIA teaches about one third of the 
total AMS program. The other two thirds 
are in psychology and math, and are taken 
care of by the other departments. The 
third handled by GSIA is mostly in the 
students last three semesters.
Tartan: What is the basic aim of AMS?
Kerr: To train people to be capable man
agers who can solve problems of manage
ment which arise not only in industry, but 
in non-profit institutions such as hospitals 
and universities...in cities and municipal
ities and in state and federal government 
and so forth. But the thing is to be able to 
approach management problems and solve 
them. We are highly mathematically and 
analytically oriented, and were well 
known for that. No one should undertake 
our AMS program without a lot of math 
preparation, and we will frankly tell them 
the names of some excellent schools where 
they will do better.
Tartan: Is that the reason that the first 
year of AMS is linked with CIT?
Kerr: Yes. AMS ends up solving problems 
in production, marketing, finance and 
behavioral problems from a mathematical 
point of view. In order to do that, your 
foundations are calculus, statistics, accoun
ting, decision analysis, use of the com
puter, linear programming and so on. 
Tartan: Would you consider a program 
linking SUPA with AMS?
Kerr: I think many of them are linked. A 
lot of the professors have double assign
ments, just as we have professors with 
assignments in psychology and GSIA. But 
many of them in SUPA teach people.here, 
and vica versa, many of our people take 
SUPA courses. SUPA people also take our 
courses.
Tartan: Is this basically a fundamental 
program where most of the students go on 
to graduate school, or are they able to 
work with what theyve learned.
Kerr: About one third go to graduate 
school and about two thirds go on to jobs. 
Theyre ready for employment in any of 
the places I mentioned. One of our last 
years graduates is working for the correc
tion bureau of the state of Illinois, on their 
management solutions. So there are 
numerous places to go, and youre well 
equipped to go somewhere after youve 
had our program.
Tartan: Professor Kerr, do you have any 
opinions on the Syria Mosque issue?
Kerr: My opinion is that their policy is a 
restrictive one. The Mosque is dark many 
nights; I dont see why a student program 
cant be acceptable there as well as a pro
fessional program. However, the Mosque is 
run by private auspices and they can make 
their choices, foolish or not. I disagree with 
their choice.
Kerr speaking before the American Rights 1984: 
Prognosis forum.
Photo by Frank Stein

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 20, 1973Page 11
Thornburgh Views 
The Problem of Crime 
at SUPA Lecture
by Debi Hildebrand
On Tuesday, March 6, the School of 
Urban and Public Affairs and the Graduate 
School of Industrial Administration 
sponsored a lecture by Richard Thorn
burgh, United States Attorney for the 
Western District of Pennsylvania, on 
Victimless Crime and the Administration 
of Justice. He viewed the problem of 
crime as a timeless issue but as one of 
increasing concern in society today due to 
population growth, social unrest, and 
peoples perceptions of criminal justice.
Thornburgh considers the problem of 
crime to be threefold: firstly, the great 
numbers and names of disturbing events; 
secondly, the publics fears and perceptions 
of crime; and thirdly, and most im
portantly, the Criminal Justice system. 
Thornburgh doesnt hold the Justice 
System responsible for societal ills such as 
poverty, discrimination, transiency, and 
the splitting of many families, but 
acknowledges a pressing need for reform. 
The necessity of professionalizing the 
police force was seen as obvious since there 
are no minimum requirements for joining a 
police force and, as of now, there are over 
40,000 police forces in this country89% 
of which include less than 10 officers. 
The backlog of cases in courts is also a 
problem; it involves high- costs and often 
people let out on bail can Commit more 
offenses. Thornburgh feels that the delay is 
because we overindulge ourselves in what is 
made criminal. Too many laws are based 
on past principles and perceptions. He be
lieves that cases concerning drugs, 
alcoholism, and mental illness dont belong 
in the courts and proposes a sort of Minor 
Court to take care of minor cases that 
today require full judicial processing.
Another area within the Justice system
ALL COATS & CLARKS 
4 OZ. 4 PLY
99 With This Ad
Mar riet 's
Mouse of yam
683-6818
10% Student Discount On all 
Other Items
209 N. Craig 
Tue. Sat 11:00 - 5:30
ABORTION
FREE PLACEMENT 
FREE PREG.TEST 
MEDICAID ACCEPTED
CALL
595-4220
Controlled Parenthood 
Suite 55 
200 W. 72nd St. - N.Y.C., N.Y.
Safe - Low-Cost - Confidential 
A Non-Profit Organization
Return Home Flight
SPRING BREAK 
RESERVED SEAT MARCH 23, 1973
Chicago: *51.00
DepartureFlight 261 6:40
Newark: *45.00
DepartureFlight 258 7:30
LaGuarda: *45.00
DepartureFlight 256 6:35
RETURN ANY FLIGHT ON TWA WITH RESERVE SEAT
FREE BUS to AIRPORT
Boards: 4:15 - Departs: 4:30
Call TWA Campus Representative before March 16:
Translator "Discovers 
a Universal Language"
Richard Thornburgh at the March 6 SUPA Sem
inar. Photo by Bruce Edelston
that needs revision, according to Thorn
burgh, is the nations correctional insitutions, which Thornburgh described as 
revolving doors of crime. Many more 
substantial vocational and educaf^nal 
opportunities are needed. Even ignoring 
humanitarian reasons, Thornburgh sees 
improved training as necessary to reduce 
the costs of keeping criminals. It will be 
cheaper in the long run because better 
correctional institutions would reduce the 
likelihood of someone returning to crime 
and, subsequently, to the institution.
Thornburgh proposed many changes 
that he felt were necessary for the Judicial 
System. He also stressed that, because of 
inertia within the system, it will be 
societys duty to realize this need and pro
mote the process of reformation.
by Sharon Curcio
Contradicting Frosts statement, 
Poetry is what is lost in translation, Dr. 
James L. Rosenburg, a translator of the 
Drama Department noted for his work on 
Max Frisch, discussed on Wednesday dis
cussed the art and- craft of translations 
poetic act. Poetry is language musically 
perceived with context determining the 
poetic potential of any word. The most 
effective translator of poetry need not flu
ently speak a foriegn language, but rather 
have poetic sensitivities in his won lan
guage. Most importantly however, the 
translation of the original work must 
convey the essential artistic experience of 
the native audience to others. The sound 
and meaning of poetry are inseparable; 
each shapes the other completing the 
unique form of the poem.
According to Dr. Rosenburg, the craft 
of poetry translation communicates the 
information of a line of verse by corres
ponding equivalent word for word mean
ings. The musicality of sound rhythm in 
poetry inseparably shape meaning and 
cause the poem to be perceived in that 
particular form. Truly expert poetry trans
lation attempts to reproduce these equiva
lent meanings within the aural framework 
of another language. Yet, artful translation 
of poetry precisely blends the literal 
meaning of the original verse with the 
modal sensitivities of a foreign language. 
For instance, two typical problems the 
translator encounters are the syllabic 
differences of language effecting meter. 
The translation of German poetry into 
English is easier than French to English 
because the former has a rigid meter of 
specifically stressed syllables while the 
syllables of the latter are more equally 
stressed.
The disciplinary value of translation 
reveals the creativity of writing,as W.B. 
Yeats presented the analogy of turning 
from the mirror to meditation upon a 
mask. The translator finds the lineaments 
of one expression and crafts another mask 
to capture the essence of that expression.
Dr. Rosenburg closed the discussion by 
saying that translators are a testimony to 
the imperfections of the world for as they 
convert the essential thought of one 
language to another, they are discovering a 
universal language.
The Systematic Approach
to History
by Kathy Knoblach
Dr. Sam Hayes, chairman of the History 
Department at the University of Pitts
burgh, presented a lecture sponsored by 
the C-MU History Department Thursday 
afternoon in Breed Hall.
He spoke on the recent developments in 
social analysis of history and how the 
changes are being geared to an emerging set 
of problems. Historians are attempting to 
make systematic statements of society by 
breaking down developments into three 
areas: concept, method and data. We are 
groping for concepts to help us understand 
how a society is organized. Social analysis 
is getting to the point where we are now 
getting studies on a piece of history and 
finding the social structure within which it 
exists.
Dr. Hayes stressed that what social 
analysis is up to, is finding systematic ways 
of describing a society. A method he 
described is the comparative method, 
where you are to discover what is similar 
and what is different about two instances 
of the same phenomenon. A more sys
tematic comparison has evolved from this 
attempt to fit isolated activities and events 
into a social structure using ethnic and 
religious criteria rather than economic and 
cultural data as in the past.
Dr. Hayes explained what the changes in 
social analysis could mean for courses and 
curriculum. He suggested more courses 
with a community focus, concentrating on 
sectional surveys of a district and giving 
students the opportunity to observe 
reactions to social change.
He explained the importance of 
transferring the problems of students in the
Dr. Sam Hayes, chairman of Pitt's History Depart
ment, in Breed Hall.
Photo by Henry Collins
past, to now, so they can relate road 
changes to individual changes in their own 
families. Studies of inequality patterns and 
mobility are valuable as a means of dis
covering human phenomena.
Dr. Hayes continued, saying that we 
should start collecting data banks of 
information for the future. We can know 
what better questions to ask, making us 
more sensitive to the complexities of a 
situation. When we can describe events 
more systematically, there can be better 
understanding. This is an answer to the 
cry for relevancy in history studies. Dr. 
Hayes concluded, Were not just talking 
about data on a page, we're talking about 
people.
Standing three inches tall and weighing 
less than an ounce, the vampire bat is one 
of the most deadly pests in Latin America. 
A carrier of rabies, it infects cattle with the 
disease while it laps the blood from tiny 
puncture wounds it inflicts on them. In 
one year, this creature was held responsible 
for killing over a million head of cattle,
costing $250 million in milk and meat 
losses, the March Science Digest reports. 
Using a jelly-like anti-coagulant on the bats 
which they ingest and die from while 
grooming themselves, scientists have been 
able to curtail the growth of the vampire 
without completely destroying the species.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12THE TARTANTuesday, March 20, 1973
GIVE A HOOT! DON'T POLLUTE
IPSC
Meet Woodsy Owl.He represents a major step forward in our fight against pollution.
pilS'Q
PUBLIC INTEREST RESEARCH GROUP 
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA
Projects, Research 
Courses in the Public Interest
and
* CONSUMER PROTECTION
* ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY
* TENANT-STUDENT RIGHTS
INTERESTED IN PUBLICITY OR STARTING COURSES?
Write PIRGCampus Mail
FUNDED BY STUDENT GOVERNMENT

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 20, 1973-Page 13
Architecture:
"Practice and More Practiceff
by Gary Bronheim
With the architecture department separ
ated into two buildings, (Doherty and 
 CFA), students feel that the department
") suffers from a lack of community which
according to one architect, detracts from 
the learning experience. Delbert Highland, 
the head of the department, hopes to get 
one large area for his department, but 
presently, the split remains.
This aspect is just one of many dif
ficulties that the department, and 
 especially the student* have to deal with.
", Students felt that there is a lack of mature
communication between the student and 
the teacher almost to the point of there 
being an adversary relationship. Further
more students commented that, although 
teachers are good architectural profes
sionals, they questioned them as educators. 
Many expressed the feeling that they are 
not being taught architecture, but that 
they are learning organization of archi
tectural procedure instead. Commented 
one student, We realize that the work 
load is a necessary part of becoming an 
architect, but there is little time to be 
human. Basically, the program has 
potential, but survival of the fittest is the 
second law of the land, the first being, 
Delberts Law, If you love architecture, 
you are willing to live and breathe it.
On the administrative side of the 
difficulties, Delbert Highlands only 
concern is architecture. As in all fine arts
Ace TARTAN reporter, Gary Bronheim, talks with the head of architecture, Delbert Highland.
_ Photo by Kevin Scott
departments he said that the key to being 
good is practice and more practice. He 
felt that much of the time students spend 
in the drafting room is simply procrasti
nation, that if students sat down and
thought out their assignments, they could
get them done, and have some free time.
Commenting on the shape of the depart
ment, Mr. Highlands felt that his
department gets a poor -deal, because 
although the students pay the same $2500 
tuition as everyone else, they get less
money per student than non-CFA depart
ments. Because the department lacks 
money, the department cant afford to 
improve the architecture library, and 
therefore, architectural researchers dont 
want to do their work at C-MU. Although 
he felt fully satisfied with his staff, Mr. 
Highlands felt the department cannot offer 
enough money to attract many non-C-MU 
graduates to teach here. Consequently, 
several of the teachers here are C-MU
grads.s,
WOODSY OWL HOOTS:
Recycle cans, bottles and paper.
GIVE A HOOT DON'T POLLUTE
IPSC
Students Run for 
March of Dimes
Two Carnegie-Mellon University 
students, Greg Nickel and David Jochman, 
have decided to run for the March of 
Dimeson April Fools day.
The third annual walk-a-thon will begin 
at 8:00 a.m. outside of Gate A at Three 
Rivers Stadium. The program is billed as a 
twenty mile walk yet the two industrious 
C-MU freshmen plan to make a run of it 
hoping to be sponsored by students and 
faculty of this university.
The theory o the walk-a-thon is that
the participants obtain sponsors who 
pledge a certain amount of money per. 
mile, usually ranging from five cents 
to . . . Greg and David have expressed hope 
that their running will not only be for 
their health, but the health of children 
born with birth defects. Anyone inter-, 
ested in helping these two C-MU students, 
should contact Dave Jochman at 313E 
Morewood Gardens or should mail their 
pledges to the TARTAN.
REPRESENTATIVE
We re looking for part-time 
help to promote the campus 
market for film developing.
Our rep will distribute pro
motional materials, posters, 
free processing coupons, 
etc. No photo experience 
necessary.
Good money-maker! Your 
efforts backed by college 
newspaper ads. Dont pass 
this one up.
Mr Ron Tyler 
100 Summers St 
Coolville. Ohio 45
Yes, send me the information
NameII
I Address I I I I I I
I College or Univ L____________
City
StateZip
RUGS
for less
with your ID Card
1000 9x12 Rugs 
$15 S19 S29 S49
alio: Ax9's, 12x12 , 12x15'*, etc. 
Also: Area Rugs (orientals, shags, 
etc., etc.)
CHASE'S
5426 Walnut St., Shadyside
DAILY: 10 00 a.m. - 8:00 p.m. 
SATURDAY: 10 00 a.m. - 5 00 p.m. 
li.1025
WANT TO TALK?
PEER HELP CENTER 
687-7414 BAKER HALL 150-A
 Luxury . Sept. .
Furnished Apartments
Shadysida 3-*r.-$255 
Oakland 2 Br.-$I65 .
391-5446; 687-2360; 422-9607
ABORTION
INFORMATION 
ABORTION GUIDANCE
An Abortion can be arranged **thin 24 
hours and you can return home the same day you leave'
CALL TOLL FREE
(800)523-4436
A Non-Profit Oronliat>on 
open 7 days a week
Arts and Crafts 
Festival
by Nancy Novick
The C-MU Arts and Crafts Festival will 
take place Friday and Saturday, April 13 
and 14, 12 noon to 5:30 p.m at the 
upcoming Spring Carnival. Unless Pitts
burgh weather is perfect, the festival will 
take place in Skibo lobby and possibly will 
extend into the Wherrett Room. If it is a 
nice day, the artists and craftsmen can set  
up outside.
This is the second Arts and Crafts 
Festival at C-MU. Last year was a good 
start and the things that went wrong then 
are being compensated for this year. Last 
year, the audience was basically students, 
which meant that expensive art items 
usually didnt sell. This year, the parti
cipants can anticipate that there will be 
more publicity for outside people, so the 
viewing and buying audience will be larger. 
Posters have been placed in art galleries, 
cultural centers, and public sites of interest 
throughout Pittsburgh. Notices will be 
posted in the Fomm,New Sun, and the 
campus calendar. Public Radio stations will 
be announcing the festival, and the 
Pittsburgh Press and the Post-Gazette will 
ve writing a review in their cultural column 
of the preceding Sunday paper.
The organization of the Arts and Crafts 
Festival is very informal. Anything goestherell be all sorts of things to look at and 
buycandles, belts, photographs, silkscreens, jewelry, sketchings, needlecraft, 
sculpture, pottery painting, macrame, 
leathercrafts .. . Anyone can display his 
work and keep all the profits. (If youre 
interested, call me at 422-8733 soon!) A 
voluntary contribution to the C-MU Stu
dent Art Gallery is up to each artist.
So far, participating artists are from 
C-MU, the Craftsmens Guild and the 
Oakland Co-op. Their work should be 
diverse and plenty.
Please remember that there is a part of 
Spring Carnival away from the Midway. 
The Arts and Crafts Festival will be 
successfully functioning whether rain or 
shine in the Skibo lobby, April 13 and 14, 
12 noon to 5:30 p.m. Itll be a good thing 
to stop by and see.
\ Though a heated swimming pool in the 
backyard of a Beverly Hills home might 
seem to some a strange place for religious 
ceremonies, according to an article in the 
just-released February McCalls, Pat 
Boone keeps extra terry-cloth jump suits 
handy for anyone who wants to take 
advantage of his ex-officio ministry as a 
modem day John the Baptist.
There are, in fact, those who do object 
to Boones poolside rites, among them the 
elders of the fundamentalist Church of 
Christ in Inglewood, California where 
Boone and his wife Shirley, long-time 
members of the congregation, have been 
barred from teaching Sunday School, and 
advised that their super-faith in the power 
of the Holy Spirit may exceed what the 
Bible tells them.
But Pat Boone, teen-age idol of the 
fifties, a cum-laude graduate of Columbia 
University and a millionaire before he was 
25, wants the world to know what his 
conversion to prayer and preaching has 
done for him and his family and what it 
can do for any man, woman or child who 
asks Gods help. It can, according to Boone 
repair a marriage and revitalize a career - 
his own examples - cure illnesses and help 
the mentally disturbed by exorcising their 
devils. (What we call fits, seizures, and 
epilepsy today, he says, Jesus recognized 
as possession by demons. Jesus saw epi
lepsy for what it is - the work of Satan. 
And he healed by casting the devils out.)

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 20, 1973
continued from page 1
nesses, which extended itself to an inten
sive examination of the workings of the 
United Unitarian Church. Kerr talked
about the Federal Communications Act, 
the suggestion of deleting information 
being aired by broadcasting stations. He 
feels restrictions involving press news 
sources, what is broadcast over radio and 
television networks, seriously impairs the 
ability of the individual to make indepen
dent and well-informed decisions about 
important events. He discussed the power 
of Congress, the ability of Nixon to defeat 
act after act. The Supreme Courts dilem
ma over obtaining acceptable judges was 
another point covered. Wiretapping, an 
increasingly great worry for businessmen 
and politicians, was discussed as an inva
sion of privacy, a cut-back on individual 
freedom. Kerr ended his speech by say
ing, . .. Nixon says we should not be per
missive ... he says that social injustice 
does not breed crime .. . and that we need 
stiffer penalties rather than preven
tion ... Im afraid this all may be so in 
1984 
Marjorie Matson is a quiet looking 
blonde lady who had to speak up in the 
microphone. She discussed Nixon as 
President in relation to past national 
leaders, and his position in the political 
spectrum. Previously, she said, it was 
basically the liberals who wanted a strong 
President. The conservatives tried to 
strengthen the power of Congress, and 
enforce a system of checks and balances. 
There is a big difference now about 
whether we want a strong president, with 
different concepts of the presidency, 
individual rights, the so-called liberals 
have a real problem. Mrs. Matson 
discussed Nixons campaign for healing a 
tom and tired society. But she explained 
the problems that arose with Nixons 
counter-revolution against society. She 
mentioned the strength Nixon had, but this 
strength could prove an evil. Supposedly 
the Supreme Court is the highest strata in 
which society can turn to, she said, We 
need judges we can respect. But when these 
men are chosen because of a proven track 
record of believing the same way you do 
politically, this can prove shattering to the 
American Judicial System. She went on 
to speak of the extent to which political 
agreement leads to advancement in 
positions in courts and government organ
izations across the country. Mrs. Matson 
spoke of Nixons tendencies to see the 
upper middle class and his conservative 
supporters as the representation of the 
majority of Americans. She said Nixons 
lack of contact with the main strength of 
the people, with their needs and desires, 
was one of the biggest problems in the 
government system.____________
The Panel: Attorney Richard Thornburgh, Congressman William Moorhead, Ms. Matson and Tom
Kerr.
for information involving issues which may 
oppose Nixons policies. He followed the 
history of Congress, going back almost 90 
years in its fight for povtfer against the 
President. He feels it has slowly lost  
Before, said Ms. Matson, the small 
businessman, the farmer, etc. could go to a 
government agency with his problem. They 
made the decisions in that area. Today, all 
the decisions are made in the White House, 
by unidentified advisors ... Problems of 
blacks, women, etc. have been set back in 
progress by a decade . . . the power should 
belong to Congress and to the people. I still 
believe in s system of checks and bal
ances . . . but at times the future looks very 
ominous ...
The third speaker was Congressman 
William Moorhead. He is tall, blonde, a 
resident of Squirrel Hill, and he looks like 
the ideal image of a local Congressman. He 
is also a powerful orator, and his discussion 
involving the power of Congress and its 
related influence on the people of the 
United States was well received. He said 
that when he was first elected to Congress 
in 1958, it was the Congress that appeared 
to rule Capitol Hill. Gradually, however, it 
had lost its power. Kennedy dazzled 
Congress. LBJ seduced it. Nixon subdued 
it. He said that the authority the govern
ment is assuming its decision making is a 
topic of headlines every day. (He brought 
out that days copy of the New York 
Times. He was right.) Moorhead spoke of 
the fight various committees must make
joked to the audience (made up mostly of 
participants in the GSIA program for 
executives and of GSIA students and 
faculty), Notwithstanding my three years 
in government, I do have some tattered 
academic credentials left. Few under
graduates took the opportunity to size up 
the new administrator before he takes 
office on July 1, but several department 
heads attended.
Learn To 
Belly Dance
LET LEE' BA TEACH YOU 
ONLY $24.00 
ENROLL NOW 421-8616
Photo by Frank Stein
strength over that period of time. And the 
present is a good indication of the situa
tion.
Congressman Moorhead said that The 
people in power, the people with the jobs, 
were Nixons people. He feels that the 
Congress is the greatest source of power 
the people still have, especially the House 
of Representatives. The Congressmen come 
from the peoples areas, know the peoples 
problems; it is imperative that they retain 
the power to express and activate the 
peoples wishes.
If we have a strong Representative 
democracy in Congress , concluded 
Moorhead, My prognosis is good. If we do 
not, I am terribly worried about 1984.
The last speaker was Richard Thorn
burgh. He opened his speech with an ana
logy to a bullfight-the toreodores in their 
fancy clothes,, came out and danced 
around. The bull (in a cloth coat?) was left 
for last. After a rather self-consciously 
humorous beginning, however, Thornburgh 
went on to speak, not in terms of President 
Nixons actions while in office, but the role 
of president in general, and the 
demands the job entails. He backed Nixons 
general policies with a statement that 
Nixon realizes the greatest good is done in 
examining the institutions rather than the 
individual. He said that the highly charged 
partisan atmosphere existing today was a 
good, healthy airing of differences, that it 
was imperative to a well represented gov
ernment. He mentioned that the Civil
Liberties Unions, etc. were not considered 
at all subversive, as some claim, but that 
they strongly represented a vast number of 
the people-that this was important and 
desireable. He spoke of the shifting of 
government from Federal and state levels, 
so that the people will have greater 
chances for accurate representation con
cerning the subject of individual rights, 
particularly the subject of wiretapping, 
Thornburgh came well prepared. He out
lined carefully the procedure by which an 
order or allowance of wiretapping was 
made available, and emphasized Nixons 
opposition to wiretapping done not in the 
interest of national security, but for 
private gain. He said that it was true that 
Nixon chose men who were sympathetic 
with his causes for government jobs, but 
that this was natural. Of course he wants 
people who will back his actions and who 
think the way he does. Thornburgh closed 
with the statement that  . .. opposition is 
good . .. activisim is needed to revitalize 
and rebuild the political system.
It was an evening for everyone. There 
were strong liberals, conservatives and 
everything in between. All seemed to agree, 
however, that much action was necessary 
to set the government on the right course; 
that the individuals needs were of great 
importance; and that without work 1984 
could be pretty grim. Hopefully, it wont 
be. Its only 11 years. 1962?
Beekman Cottrell, of the English Department, 
moderated the program.
Photo by Frank Stein
Weber Lecture
continued from page 1
During his term on the Pay Board,
Weber was a target for much criticism from 
labor leaders who claimed that the board 
was stacked with public members who 
favored business interests. In October
1972, the Labor Department announced 
that during the first year of controls, wages 
rose only 60% as fast as prices.
Speaking before an audience strongly 
connected with management, Weber prai
sed the controls program for reducing the 
frequency and intensity of strikes by giving 
labor leaders a convenient excuse to deny 
rank-and-file demands and by convincing 
the public that strikes were an attack on 
the national welfare. He added that he was 
amazed by the great public support for the 
principle of controls, saying that in the 
beginning the Cost of Living Council 
exercised powers the Russian Duma 
wouldnt have given to the Czar.
At the beginning of his lecture, Weber
University of Pittsburgh  Carnegie-Mellon University 
Point Park College
present
The Long Wharf Theatre of New Haven in
CANDIDA
at the 
Stephen Foster Memorial - Pitt Campus 
8:30 p. m. April 2 through 7 1973
Student Tickets at SKIBO and PITT Union $2.50
Other tickets at TICKETRON outlets and Pittsburgh Playhouse

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 20, 1973-Page 15
. * .  - ' yiW*' s ,*> .
Ar noldsMB 
THE C-MU ACTIVITIES BOARD
Presents.
IN CONCERT
FROM HOLLAND
FOCUS
Changed to
THURS., MARCH 22 8:30 P.M.
Tickets:
*M m $1.50 with C-MU I.D.
$2.50 Without
Available At:
Skibo Information Desk Pitt Ticket Office 
Duquesne Student Union 
Heads Together In Squirrel Hill
AMERICAN RIGHTS 
1984: PROGNOSIS
Freedom of Expression? 
The Media
American Rights 1984 Prognossis 
Program 2 
Tuesday, March 20 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Wherrett Room, Skibo 
7:30 P.m.
Marie Torre Host of the Marie Torre Show
KDKA, Westinghouse Broadcasting Corporation Former Reporter with New York 
Herald Tribune.
Frank Hawkins Editor, Pittsburgh Post GazetteLynn Hinds Radio and Televison Commentator WTAE, American Broadcasting 
Company
Herb Stein City Editor, Newsroom WQED, Public Boradcasting System Former 
reporter with Pittsbrugh Post Gazette
Rev. Harry Sauders, Moderator Sponsored by Student Activities, Chaplain's Association of CM' '
Director of Communications, Chri^tain Associates for further information contact Student Activities, 621 2600 extension 214
of Southwestern Pennsylvania

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 20, 1973
LetLrts:eLet
Concerts
barbosa-Cima
by Bob King
Say the word guitar and what comes to 
your mind? Be honest now. You were prob
ably thinking of one of those electric 
things with a wah- wah pedal and about 15 
other knobs to do this and that, werent 
you? Either that or the shapely box with 
strings on it, which has replaced your sign 
which read, I am Bob Dylan. Actually the 
guitar is a very unique instrument. It can 
be played with a unique brand of 
sensativity and warmth. Only recently, 
within the past five or so years, has the 
classical guitar been recognized to any 
extent, though the instrument itself has 
existed in one form or another for 
thousands of years. The reperatoire of 
classical guitar has greatly increased with 
Andres Segovias Bach transcriptions and 
the guitar concerto has proved to be quite 
a popular concert piece. It is quite natural 
that a college orchestra would feature the 
classical guitar sometime in its season and I 
was glad to see that CMU did. The featured 
soloist was Carlos Barbosa-Lima, a 
seemingly young but quite promising guit
arist. Along with the Carnegie Mellon Orch
estra, he performed two of the more 
popular guitar concertos, the Vivaldi D 
Major Concerto, and Joaquin Rodrigos 
Concierto de Aranjuez. The Vivaldi is a 
light concerto, originally scored for lute, 
two violins, and basso continuo, yet is 
beautifully adaptable for guitar and string 
orchestra. Mr. Bar b osa-Limas 
performance, however, did not live up to 
my expectations. While his style is magnif
icent, he seemed quite reserved. For the 
most part he played with the orchestra, 
instead of as a soloist. Towards the final 
Allegro he loosened up a bit, yet his per
formance was still too self-conscious. The 
Concierto de Aranuez is a much more
vibrant work and Mr. Barbosa- Lima played 
more aggressively. His performance was 
much cleaner and it was brilliant. For the 
Roderigo he recieved a standing ovation 
and played one encore, A New Irish Tune, 
especially for St. Patracks day. During his 
performance, I got the impression that Mr. 
Barbosa-Lima was almost afraid of the 
music itself. I hope I am either wrong or 
he gets over this quickly. He is a fine guit
arist as it is but he could be better with 
more self-assurance. Supporting Mr. Barb
osa-Lima was the CMU Orchestra, 
conducted by Chauncey Kelley. The re
mainder of the program consisted of works 
by Beethoven, Leich, and Auber. 
Beethovens 8th Symphony stands as his 
most humorous, with rhythms and tempos 
mocking Maezels metronome. Kelley led 
the orchestra in a nice performance, rather 
weak in parts but nice. It bothered me how 
individual sections, primarily violins and 
woodwinds, seemed to fade out for a 
second and then catch themselves. The 
cellos were rather subdued for the most 
part, except for the principle, Thomas Gar
ber, who swatted at everything like it was a 
cello concerto. His one short solo, in the 
Rodrigo Concerto, was excellent, though. 
The trumpets played magnificently 
throughout, especially in the 3rd 
movement. Nothing new really; I have been 
impressed with Richard Purcell for a long 
time now. The orchestra seemed at its best 
in Roland Leichs Rondo for Orchestra, 
Spring 1942. The work was good, weak in 
parts, but with some nice passages. Mr. 
Leich, who is a professor of theory and 
composition here at CMU, seemed to like 
it, so what am I to say. To reiterate once 
again, the concert was fair. There Vere 
weak points and strong points and I went
alone precludes brilliance. Disney studios 
could never put up with a truly innovative 
director because if one existed on the 
payroll he might rival the studio image in 
prestige.
A mild surprise was the poor quality of 
some of the special effects. Better super
vision would have cut out an inferior 
imitation tiger scene and might have 
tightened the comedy. Overall, Athlete is 
an ordinary film. I doubt that it will do 
well at the box office because it is not 
quite fast enough or funny enough for 
kids.
What is not ordinary is Disney as a 
phenomenon. Written off as a waste of 
time from an artistic standpoint for 
twenty-five years, the studio has recently
been under fire from a number of critics. 
Pans of the Disney philosophy have 
appeared, ecologists snipe at the studios 
land deals and Orlando resists Disneyworld. 
The only sustained critique of Disney and 
his studio, though, is Richard Schickels 
The Disney Version, which is excellent 
when Schickel discusses the films, but is a 
bit silly when Schickel becomes the 
amateur psychologist. The questions raised 
by Schickel are fairly important, in parti
cular: How does the Disney oeuvre reflect 
American society? How was the studio 
organization assembled? and Whats 
happened since Disneys death? In a 
second column I hope to touch upon these 
points and to supply a little information on 
the Disney mystique.
Attention!! Upperclassmen!
We Need 150
or YOU TO HELP US WITH
FRESHMAN ORIENTATION 1973.
Come to the Meeting  Monday, April 16,q 
5:00 P.M. Skibo Rm. 45.
Additional Information available at Skibo Info Desk
:V: :v
Carlos Barbosa-Lima, a young Spanish guitarist, was the soloist in the March 17 Carnegie-Mellon 
Orchestra Concert.
Photo by Henry Collins
The World's Greatest Athlete
by Winton Snyder *
The World's Greatest Athlete, starring 
Tim Conway, Jan-Michael Vincent, and 
John Amos; screenplay by Gerald Gardner 
and Dee Caruso; directed by Robert 
Scheerer.
Walt Disneys work has been considered 
a good representation of popular culture 
for some time. What is interesting about 
this fact is that in spite of considerable 
change in what has constituted popular 
culture over the last forty years, Disneys 
work has been fairly consistant in tone. 
The most recent Disney studio release, The 
World's Greatest Athlete, does not differ 
significantly in attitude from its precursors.
The plot concerns the discovery in 
Africa of Nanu, super athlete, and the 
Jitation of Nanu by a lovable 
can college coach. Nothing too 
king here, or in the gags hung on the 
Disney had kidded college athletics in 
kt two previous films: The Absent 
1/ Professor and Son of Flubber. In 
ie the excuse for the sporting special 
I is not a scientific fantasy (flubber) 
1 just good old Voodoo. Although 
6y inept allies and cute villains, Nanu 
s able to sweep all the events in an 
N.C.A.A. track meet (eight flat in the 
hundred-try and top that, McKay). Nanu 
then returns to Africa in victory, along
with his tutor and heart throb, Jane (of 
Me Nanu, you Jane fame).
There were two slight changes in the 
usual format. The first is mildly en
couraging and the second is mildly dis
appointing. First, the real protagonist of 
this fare is coach Archer, who is not white 
middle class but black middle class. It 
seems strange to hear a Disney character 
speak of roots in Africa rather than in a 
small mid-west town. John Amos is fine as 
coach Archer. In fact, the whole cast is 
fine, which is part of the disappointing 
second deviation from the Disney format. 
The technical aspects, including the acting, 
of the film were handled satisfactorily but 
without innovation or expertise. In the 
past an occasional Disney film has lacked 
coherence or failed to live up to its full 
comic potential. Athlete falls into both of 
these categories to a degree, and therefore 
remains just fine instead of something a 
little better. The pace and direction seem 
to mute the effectiveness of some of the 
gags and the dialogue is less than inspiring. 
Dee Caruso and Gerald Gardner, the script 
writers, are graduates of T.V. and thats 
okay, but they do not seem to have a real 
concept of how to use the scope of a 
motion picture screen. Rober Scheerer has 
directed for Disney before and that fact

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 20, 1973-Page 17
Maggie Stewart is the female lead in Lord Have Mercy.Photos by Carl Grefenstette
Theatre
by Debbie SiegelScotch and Soda
Viewing Scotch and Soda as a spectator
who sat in on a play in the production 
stages, I was treated to a slice of 
entertainment which I can honestly say 
brought me back to Broadway, my favorite 
spot for fine entertainment. On April 6th, 
LORD HAVE MERCY, music and words 
written by Steven Fechtor and AN OLD 
FASHIONED WALK, original story by 
Barbie Deutsch and adapted by Jim De 
Martino will premiere and run perfor
mances through April 14th.
Steve is a senior at CMU who is pursuing 
a self-defined major in pre-law. He was in 
Scotch and Soda for two years and last 
year decided to write something, figuring 
he could do as well as the last composer for 
the show. All Scotch and Soda productions 
are originally written and auditions are 
held for which plays will be produced. This 
year, Stevens and Barbies were chosen 
from approximately seven others. Last 
year, the Broadcast Music Incorporation of 
BMI awarded Steven one thousand dollars 
in cash for the Outstanding Varsity Show 
of the year when A NEW DAY was 
presented. This year some producers from 
the BMI in New York will attend the show 
and next year he will go to New York as he 
has signed a contract with the BMI.
As background goes Steven had the 
rather usual upbringing of six years 
classical piano, guitar lessons, and one 
creative writing course in high school. His 
idea for LORD HAVE MERCY came from 
a dream he had one night. In response to 
any future plans he is considering, Steven 
replied, My writing musicals started off as 
a hobby and is ending as a career. 1 am 
planning to attend a Composer Workshop 
when I finish school. In addition to the 
story and music, Steven also choreo
graphed his work.
Barbie is a voice major at CMU and Jim 
DeMartino graduated from CMU and is 
now writing plays in Pittsburgh. According 
to co-stars in both plays, Mike Stevens and 
Paul Szauter, AN OLD FASHIONED 
WALK borders on emotions of surrealism 
and cruelty, also decay and entropy. It is 
very experimental and sets up a myth. It is 
the more serious of the plays and provides 
a contrast which should really blow the 
minds *of the audience. It is an abstract
drama with tragedy. The story is about a 
pair of lovers in ancient Greece who move 
through twenty-three centuries of time and 
make love when they meet. Their last life 
time is set in a rural American town. There 
are many expressive love songs throughout.
Mike Stevens and Paul Szauter are the 
stars in both shows. This is Mikes third 
year in Scotch and Soda and he is also the 
business manager this year. Now a senior, 
he is an English major in technical writing. 
As a freshman Biology major, Paul admits 
these are his ninth and tenth shows and he 
was in the first non-professional pro
duction of 1776. Both Mike and Paul 
would like to continue doing some theater, 
perhaps in summerstock.
The female lead in LORD HAVE 
MERCY is Maggie Stewart, a voice major 
who was never in Scotch and Soda before 
and attributes the reason that she wanted 
to participate this year as a desire to be in 
Steves show. This past summer Maggie 
worked in the Pittsburgh Civic Light Opera 
which does six shows of musical comedy. 
In answer to how Maggie views her talent, 
she replied with a smile, I owe my success 
to my mother and Dave Brunetti, a fresh
man piano major. Right now, Im trying to 
get into graduate school at CMU because I 
really like my piano major. Steve is an 
excellent writer and director and Ive really 
enjoyed working with him.
LORD HAVE MERCY is a play within a 
play. The main purpose commented Mike 
is to show what is reality and what is 
illusion. Mike plays Lance, the messenger 
of God. Horation Popoff. the Director of 
the show within the play is played by 
David. Maggie refers to her part as a Goldie 
Hawn type characterization who is dumb 
and a virgin. She likes Popoff and wants to 
impress him, being that he is the director. 
Let me not forget to mention the company 
of 20 who provide humor, song, and dance 
which make the show the well rounded 
musical comedy. The cast began rehearsing 
on weekends in November and since 
January has been working every day. One 
must sing and do an improvisation to be
come a part of the cast.
Examine the glow radiated by partici
pants and the rest of the show may speak 
for itself. If youve been craving for some 
fine show to arrive in Pittsburgh. LORD 
HAVE MERCY if you miss this one.
THIEF
by Doug Stone
The Thief Who Came to Dinner , 
starring Ryan ONeal, Jacqueline Bisset, 
and Warren Oates, produced and directed 
by Bud Yorkin, screenplay by Walter Hill.
The Thief Who Came to Dinner is an 
amusing film that could have been much 
more amusing had it stuck to comedy and left 
out naive philosophizing. The story 
concerns a computer engineer (Ryan 
0Neal) who becomes bored with his life 
and decides to take up jewel thievery for 
excitement. He robs his first victim of 
some jewels and some papers, with which 
he blackmails the victim into introducing 
ONeal to other wealthy people so he can 
rob them. Among the people ONeal meets 
this way is Jacqueline Bisset with whom he 
instantly falls in love, and who soon 
becomes his partner in crime. Meanwhile, 
he is pursued by Warren Oates, a dedicated 
insurance investigator who evidently is 
much like ONeal was before he embarked 
upon his life of no good. Any more 
description would spoil the funny 
moments in the film.
Once again, Thief would have been far 
better if it had been done by competent 
actors. Ryan ONeal, no matter how much 
he tries, is no Cary Grant. His acting is 
simply dull, with no style. He reads his 
lines as if he were constipated. Jacqueline 
Bisset does a reasonable job of sleeping 
through her role. She looks beautiful, but 
she is evidently bored with her part. Her 
acting, too, lacks luster. Warren Oates is 
adequate. He has done better, and Im sure 
worse. He, though, is by far the most 
convincing of the three main characters.
As a whole. Thief comes off better than 
it deserves, due to the excellent screenplay 
by Walter Hill. Despite Ryan ONeals 
efforts to the contrary, his part is amusing, 
and the supporting characters are inter
esting enough to hold the show together. 
The Thief Who Came to Dinner is an 
average film and reasonable entertainment 
if you have nothing more exciting to do 
than watch an average film.
The philosophy exuded by O'Neal is 
that in a world of thieves, he is an honest 
thief. This is what he tries to impress upon 
Oates and ultimately succeeds in doing. 
This seems to me to be a rather childish 
point of view, and one hardly worth the 
attention given to it in the movie. It would 
have been much better for the filmmakers 
to have concentrated on the comedic 
aspects of the film.
T ranscendental Meditation
As Taught; 
by
MAHARISHI
MASHESH
YOGI
Spontaneously develops Full mental Potential 
Provides deep rest for increased energy
INTRODUCTORY LECTURE
Rick Meisenbach 
Eileen Felmet
Wed. March 21
8:00 P.M.
Scaife Hall - Auditorium
SPONSORED-BY 
STUDENTS 
INTERNATIONAL 
MEDITATION 
SOCIETY 
NON PROFIT 
EDUCATIONAL 
ORGANIZATION 
363-1592

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 20, 1973
SPORTS
Salt & Pepper
Shakes Raiders
To start off Intramural Night. Phi 
Kappa Theta played the Rangatangs for the 
Intermediate championship in basketball. 
The first half showed poor performances 
by both teams, but in the second half Phi 
Kappa Theta, led by Dan Liske, opened up 
the game with a scoring barrage.
In the final game of the year, Radic's 
Raiders and Salt and Pepper met for the 
major league championship. Definately the 
two best teams in the league, the Raiders 
went into the game undefeated while Salt 
and Pepper showed only one loss, that to 
the Raiders earlier in the year. The game 
started with Salt and Pepper increasing a 
small lead to an 11 point lead. Although 
the Raiders fought back to tie the game.
Salt and Pepper again opened their lead to 
8 points at the half, 38-30.
The second half saw the game at its 
peak as the Raiders pulled to withing two 
points. But a few fast field goals and an 
effective stall saw the game end with 
another championship for Salt and Pepper 
as they upset the Raiders 65-59. Leading 
scorers for the Raiders were Grazini with 
19 and Radic with 17. Leading scorers for 
Salt and Pepper were Sehlin with 19. Sorrel 
with 16 and Holis with 15.
Judging from the crowds that attended. 
Intramural Night was a considerable 
success. In between the basketball games 
was the presentation of awards for the 
intramural sports champions of 1972-73.
Commissioner Pete Hoysan presents trophy to PKT.
Photo by Bruce Edelston
Campus Camera Headquarters 
FOR ALL YOUR 
PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS
Film
Processing  Equipment
CAMERA EXCHANGE
Student Discount on Most Items
Two Locations 
OAKLAND-3711 Forbes Avenue 
SHADYSIDE5432 Walnut Street
Phone: 683-2181 
Phone: 683-8900
GIRLS ARE YOU LOOKING FOR A 
SUMMER COUNSELOR POSITION?
Applicants are now being considered for the 197Jcamp season. Must be able 
to teach one of the following: Theatre Director, Piano Accompanist and 
singing. Archery, Tennis, Tennis Director, Golf, Trampoline, Photography, 
Cheerleading, Riflery (N.R.A.), Scouting and Nature Study, A.R.C. Swim
ming Instructor, Boating, Canoeing and Water Skiing Instructor or General 
Athletics. Secretary also needod.
COUNSELOR UNIT LEADERS
Must be college graduate experienced in camping. Able to plan schedule for 
activities, evening programs, etc. Supervise large staff. Write Camp Director 
2409 Shelley dale Drive, Baltimore, Md 21209.
Board battle between Salt and Pepper and the Raiders.
Photo by Bruce Edelston
Tartan leers in Breeze
by Dave Girdany
The C-MUhockey team ended its regular 
season on Tuesday, March 13, with an easy 
3 to 0 triumph over Penn State 
McKeesport. This was an exceptional game 
for the Tartans, as they actually had a 1 to 
0 lead at the end of the first period. Mike 
Gallaway scored the goal that gave the 
Tartans the lead. Since the outcome of the 
game could not have affected their second 
place standing, the Tartans used this game 
as a tuneup for their playoff match with 
Indiana tonight in Kittaning.
The game was singularly unexciting 
except for a fight which cleared both 
benches with about a minute left in the 
game. This fight could be attributed to the 
referees inefficiency as much, if not more 
than the animosity between the players of 
the opposing teams. Throughout the game, 
the referee ignored obvious calls, and the 
calls he did make seemed to be arbitrary. 
This, however, had little effect on the 
outcome of the game due to the superior
ity of C-MU. Another interesting note; 
recent acquisition Pat Wallace scored a goal 
in his first game in uniform.
The team came out of the Penn State 
game in good health and apparently ready 
for the crucial Indiana game. The C-MU 
Indiana match should be- an excellent 
game, a treat for the fans. The game should 
be close, but look for the skating super
iority of C-MU to be the difference in the 
game. Jeff Hart gives the Tartans an 
advantage in goaltending also. Prediction: 
C-MU 4, Indiana 2.
The winner of the C-MUIndiana game 
will then face Pitt for the league champion
ship, probably either this Thursday or 
Saturday at the Alpine Arena. Another 
close game is expected, but, assuming 
C-MU does defeat Indiana, the edge again 
must be given to the skating and goaltending of the Tartans. And so dont be 
surprised if your school has a 
championship team this year.
Scoring Summary 
Period 1: (1) C-MU-Gallaway (Kenworthy, 
Farman)
Period 2: (2) C-MU-Powers (Bauer, Molnar) 
(3) C-MU-Wallace (Thompson, Kozarek)
During Spring Recess 
Join Your Friends for 
Lunch and Dinner in the
KILTIE CAFE
from March 24 to April 1st
Extra care menus, as usual, are planned for this whole 
week of break, along with our daily luncheon specials, 
relish trays, assorted wrapped sandwiches and 51 coffee.
WE THINK YOU'LL HAVE A PLEASANT EXPERIENCE
YOUR CMU FOOD SERVICE

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 20, 1973-Page 19
Women's Olympics
/
Friday the Thirteenth may be your 
lucky day. That is, if you come to the 
football field at 1:00 for the Girls Relay 
Races. There, sorority and independent 
teams of six women will be competing for 
a first place trophy in the girls races. This 
year, the races have been changed to in
clude some new ideas and the old favorite 
of building a pyramid. The rules and races 
are as follows:
1. Each team will consist of at least six 
women, five will compete in each race, 
except the pyramid.
2. Each team is responsible for bringing 
one (1) baseball bat, one (1) orange, one 
(1) jump rope, and rope sufficient for the 
third race.
3. Any rule infraction will disqualify a 
team from that race.
4. For each race, times will be taken to 
determine first, second, third place, etc. 
One point will be awarded to first place, 
two for second, etc. The winner of the 
relays will be the team with the lowest 
point total.
This years races are:
1. Is She Dizzy: Each contestant must 
run to an end marker, put her head on the 
end of a baseball bat, spin three (3) times 
to the right, reverse and spin (3) times to 
the left, and run back to the start.
2. Wheelbarrow with Orange: Girl B is a 
wheelbarrow with Girl A pushing with an 
orange held under her chin. Race to an end 
marker. Girl A stays there while Girl B 
races to start. Girl A throws orange to Girl 
B. Girl C is wheelbarrow for Girl B, etc.
3. I is for Insect: Similar to three legged 
race, girls line up side to side and tie ad
jacent ankles together with rope given. 
These insects now race to end marker, 
turn around and race back to the start. If a 
rope comes undone, stop, retie it, and con
tinue.
4. Medley: Girl A will hop to the end 
marker, Girl B will skip. Girl C jump rope, 
Girl D will do forward rolls, and Girl E run 
backwards. All may run back normally.
5. Pyramid: Each team will build a six 
person pyramid. Places to be awarded by 
speed of formation and duration of 
pyramid.
6. Tug of War: A Round Robin Tug of 
War with each group meeting each other 
team.
Remember that any group of six (6) 
women may compete. A sorority may 
enter more than one team. Any questions 
of rules should be referred to Charles 
Richardson, ATO, or phone 621-0725. 
Entries for teams are due April 6th at the 
same address.
A HCN-RlPofF PBonr STO He ho^cs:/-
New ! byS t eU 'S  V r L O CtSfp wfc>
ttycwu
SCHENLlY
'gCO-OP yviipgftNEss
SHOP": V CA8U Pi.
Wf ScLL F H\JES T
;a/G mi2-
VIa/4 so/vif OS>D /rew> 
)~CMiU'2s o nvetvH t-adnALSO: MILL EW
OPeti imqur f-awpm
621-222%
SYSTEMS AND 
COMMUNICATION 
PROGRAMMERS
Com-Share, Inc., a nationwide time sharing firm, is expanding its 
Research and Development Division and has openings for the 
following:
Systems Programers
To assist in the development of its new time sharing system on a 
Sigma 9. Applicants interested in compilers, data management or 
monitors preferred.
Communication Programmers
Programmers with experience in binary synchronous and HASP 
communications protocol are needed to expand our Remote Batch 
capability. Also, a major communications network project is 
beginning which will connect over 30 cities to our time sharing 
center in Ann Arbor.
If you are interested in working with a small, dynamic company 
in these areas, please sign up for an interview (March 21) at the 
Placement Office, or write:
Mr. Don Redding
Com-Share, Inc.
P.O.Box 1588 
Ann Arbor, Ml 48106
Action in Major's finalNumber 10 is assistant varsity coach Jeff Hollis.
Photo by Bruce Edelston
 Are you unmarried ?
 Male 21 - 30 yrs.old ?
 Healthy ?
 150-200 lbs. ?
 Non-smoker ?
 Interested in earning extra money 
on weekends ?
BIODESISION LABORATORIES
ru
B
r^\
ft
An Old Fashioned Walk
and
11Lord Have Mercy
April 6,7, 9,10, 10,11,12,13,14
8:30 p.m.
Skibo Ballroom
FF
Tickets...$2.00
on sale beginning March 19 at Skibo 
Info Desk and at the Scotch n Soda booth 
in Baker Hall

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 20, 1973
R9
<T>
HERMAN PARIS IS
PAID BY DUQUESIE 
LIGHT, BUT HE 
SPENDS MUCH OF 
HIS TIME WORK
ING FORYOI
Its not what you are; iVs what you can do that counts.
\Herman works in our Per
sonnel Department. It's his 
responsibility to match the 
right job to the right person. 
Its not always easy, but 
Herman is good at it.
Hermans job doesnt end 
there. Hes a corporate solic
itor for the National Alliance 
of Businessmen. And also 
a member of the Pittsburgh
Youth Motivation Task Force. 
This means he, along with 
other Duquesne Light black 
employees, visits various 
schools in the area with total 
or large minority group enroll
ments. We believe that by 
having Herman show that 
good jobs do exist for quali
fied people, regardless of 
their color, it might keep some 
students from becoming
dropouts. Thats important 
because a high school drop
out just doesnt have much 
of a chance today to earn a 
good living ... to help his 
community... to help himself.
Herman cant do it all, of 
course, but what he does, 
he does well.
We need more people like 
Herman. Come in and see if
you fit in at Duquesne Light. In 
fact, right now we have open
ings for engineers and tech
nicians. Other jobs will open 
up soon. Good pay. Hard 
work. Poom to grow. Ask 
Herman. Or phone 471-4300, 
Ext. 6553 for more information.
Duquesne Li^rt
An Equal Opportunity 
Employer
