TARJAN
January 31, 1978 Volume 78, Number 17 Carnegie-Mellon University Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213
GSIA addition to begin soon
by Jean Pellegrini
It reminds me of a dungeon. After all. 
Baker and Doherty Halls were supposed to 
be mills at one time, a Warner Hall em
ployee remarked. Many students and fac
ulty members agree that University facil
ities are outdated and cramped.
Joseph P. McNally. Director of Physical 
Plant discussed the renovation plans that 
the University has. In order to provide 
more room, we will be building an addition 
onto the Graduate School of Industrial 
Administration beginning this summer. The 
building will house 2 amphitheater-type 
classrooms, 2 large and 2 small conference; seminar rooms, and up to 8 offices.
Another major project being developed 
is a color scheme for all the buildings in
cluding classrooms and offices. Professor 
DeGregori is the color consultant for the 
project.
Over the past two years, a half a million 
dollars has beon spent on two separate pro
jects. New paint, lighting, seating, air dis
tribution systems, and blackboards are ex
amples of the kind of improvements found 
in some Doherty Hall classrooms. There 
had been a lot of complaints about class
rooms such as poorly laid out rooms and 
bad lighting from some departments and 
professors. They refused to use the rooms 
to hold classes. McNally said. Addition
ally, a sprinkler system, smoke doors, and 
exterior fire escapes were installed in Do
herty to update the fire safety system.
Also, S21,000 was spent on leveling and 
reseeding of the intramural field off of 
Forbes Avenue, phase I of an [electrical] 
overhaul in Morewood Gardens was com* 
pleted, and a thorough clean-up of class
rooms in Porter and Baker Halls was con
ducted.
Presently, plans are either being dis
cussed or finalized regarding a new dorm
itory next to the Doherty Apartments, a 
spring tree-planting program, a major 
window replacement program for the older 
buildings, and Hammerschlag Hall class
room renovations.
One AMS sophomore expressed doubt JN* 
concerning Physical Plants renovation 
plans. Ill believe it when I see it. .
Another AMS sophomore agrees, adding 
that paint is chipping off the windows 
and walls in some buildings and many 
classrooms have over or under-heating 
problems.
A GSIA ' graduate student remarked, 
What made them break down?, when he 
was informed about the planned addition 
to GSIA,
But an H&SS freshman said that she 
did notice that the classrooms in Baker 
Hall were much cleaner after we came back 
from vacation.
An addition to GSIA, adding classrooms and offices, will begin this summer.Kaplan discounts MBA ranking
by Elliot Ohlberg
The national ranking of the Graduate School of Industrial Ad
ministration dropped from fourth to sixth, according io MBA mag
azine (December, 1977).
MBA polled 85 of the 130 business school deans, asking them to 
rate each business schools academic quality and improvement on a 
five-point scale. CMU showed a marked drop in improvement.
Neither the students nor the administration take much heed in 
the MBA report. GSIA Dean Robert Kaplan responded to the poll 
in a recent issue of Robber Barrons. the weekly GSIA newsletter. 
Kaplan stated:
My persona! feeling is that annual rankings of professional 
schools are ridiculous and the methodology used is generally sus
pect. Schools do not change that quickly and what changes do 
occur are not known even to other deans. Once every five years 
would more than satisfy my demand for rankings.
The change in GSIAs rankings is basically due to a change in 
the method MBA uses to rank schools.
Last year, MBA asked deans to rank the top five schools aca
demically. Therefore, any dean could nominate only five schools. 
Of the 60 responses, 15 named CMU in the top five (15 also named 
M.I.T. but 22 ranked Wharton). MBA computed a score based on 
the average ranking of the deans who ranked each school and under 
this system we had a higher average than Wharton. This is a bizarre 
system since if seven more deans had ranked us fifth (instead of
ignoring us altogether because they thought we were not in the top 
five) our average score would have dropped from 2.67 to 2.14, 
moving us from fourth place to tenth. Thus if more deans had 
ranked us in the top five, our rankings would have been much 
lower.
This year the deans were asked to rate each school against a 
preset five-point scale (with no fractional scores allowed). Thus the 
schools were being rated on a supposed absolute scale rather than 
ranked against each other. Again, only the average of those ranking 
each school was computed. With this method 55 of the 85 deans 
rated us (57 rated Wharton and 59 rated Sloan). Gearly more 
people were considering us which, by picking up some deans who 
had not ranked us in the top five last year, had the effect of lower
ing our average score. If 3 of the 55 deans had rated us one point 
higher (from a three to a four, say), or 1 dean had given us a five 
instead of a two, we would have been in a virtual tie with Wharton. 
We were 9.5 points shy of a tie with M.I.T. These numbers are so 
small given the general ignorance of even such informed individuals 
as deans, that I just cant take these resulting rankings very ser
iously.
Kaplan feels that a more reliable ranking is obtained by polling 
leading professors in each specialty area of business rather than 
relying on the general ignorance of deans.
In February, 1977. Change magazine polled professors and ob
tained the following ranking: Stanford. Harvard, M IT., Chicago,
continued on page 4
Professors speak out on cheating problem
by Linda Deak
In a previous article, Undergrade Ex
pose Cheating, students cited examples 
of blatant cheating. Cheating Part II reveals 
the professor's opinions on the subject, and 
how they cope with the wandering eves, 
the scribbled desk top formulas, the open 
books. Profs say that most cheating cases 
are handled confidentially, but some cheat
ing reaches great enough heights to be 
brought before the University' Committee 
on Discipline.
Professors arc accused of shoving cheat
ing righi in the faces of students, especially 
in large lecture classes where the seating is 
close and ihe p roc to ring minimal. If the 
solution is to double-seat every student, it 
might .ccessitate holding Miysics ! classes 
on the l ut to provide enough space betweei each student.
( netting occuring in many classes might 
be e;sy to detect hut hard to prove. Most 
students will not admit to cheating, and 
according to one professor, You have to 
catch them in the act and react immediate
ly. Calling a student to your office one 
du\ or one week laiei gives him too long to
think about it.
Professors should not be expected to be 
a guardian angel to every one of their stud
ents. Students who notice a substantial 
amount of dishonest practice should report 
it to their prof. not so much by naming in
dividuals but methods. Professors will gen
erally acknowledge the problem and act 
upon it immediately.
Looking past the debate of whose re
sponsibility it is to curb cheating, the ques
tion of what is considered cheating and 
how much is actually noticed was put to 
various professors. The following answers 
were elicited:
Thomas Kerr (GSIA) "Cheating is a serious 
lapse in personal conduct... The student is 
cheating himself, foreclosing obtaining the 
benefits li-.vin the opportunity for educa
tion. It shows a seiious disregard tor fellow 
students of the university . and also the uni
versity itself. What did one come here for 
any way ? There ae probably two main 
causes: young people have seen enormous 
dishonesties in the real world*' in private 
business, in public lile and even in futility 
life. They wonder, is that not the wav of
life. The imagined competition to merely 
get grades for grad school, or a job. has 
overshadowed the desire to learn.
What to do about it? I hate punishment, 
but in view of what I've mentioned. I think 
the student should back off. reconsider 
and start over: by taking the course over, 
or taking a year off to think about it. It 
isnt punishment, just a chance to reapappraise one's own conduct .*
Martin Wohl (Civil I ngineering) As 1 
teach basically upper level or graduate level 
courses, I have noticed that most 
cheating problems deal with plagiarism. 
Students failing to footnote published in
formation should realize that professors do 
a great deal of reading, and copied research 
is a bit easy to recognize. It I catch a C"Jdent cheating. I look at the overall project 
and deal with it in those terms. If 1 think 
he is trying to mislead me. Ill fail him for 
the cetlain project. If he is just sloppy. Ill 
mark him down. I wish that students 
would understand the gravity of cheating 
it can ruin their professional lives il they 
engage in the same practice when thev
continued on page G
, inside
news...
Crecine talks (pg. 3)
R A. program comes alive (pg. 2) 
Hairdryers evaluated (pg. 21)
entertainment...
Steve Goodman: an overview (pg. 17)
PPT: Slow Dance on the Killing 
Ground (pg. 18)
sports...
Men and Womens basketball teams 
win (pg. 24)
folio...
History of Mankind (pg. 9)

---------------------------------------------------

page 2-TARTAN-January 31, 1978
RA program activity increases
by Saul Carliner
A Resident Assistant (R.A.) is a dis
ciplinarian, a counsellor, and a program
mer, according to Hill Resident Director 
Corey Chase, and anyone who isnt doing 
their job well have to let go.
For the first time that most people can 
remember, some RAs have been fired 
from their jobs. Chase explained that R.A.S
are evaluated at midterm, and if they dont 
improve on their weaknesses, they have to 
be let go.
Chase hopes that R.A. training is im
proving. He explained that the R.A.s re
cently went on a three-day retreat to 
Ligonier, where they were given first aid 
training, counselling training, and also 
discussed educational programming ideas.
NEWS BRIEFS
MIS reevaluates H&SS requirements
MIS Dean Daniel Berg recently stated that the humanities requirements for his 
college will be reevaluated. He explained that he wants MIS students to get a greater 
exposure to the humanities.
H&SS Dean John Crecine added that he hopes to be able to adapt some of. the 
core curriculum courses required of students in his college in their freshman and 
sophomore years for MIS and CIT students.Israeli Week planned
The Annual Israeli Week on Campus activities will occur next Friday, February 10, 
in the Skibo Lobby.
Included in the program are exhibits, slide shows, falafel and Israeli films. Addi
tionally, a city-wide program is planned for Saturday evening, February 11, at Levy 
Hall, Rodef Shalom Synogogue. The program begins at 7:30 PM, and includes Israeli 
entertainment, a falafel sale, and an Israeli cafe.Ice skating day scheduled
The RA program will hold a free day of Ice Skating at Schenley Park this Saturday, 
at 10 AM. Skating is free to dormitory residents, other CMU students should be 
able to receive a discount.
Also, the Federal Income Tax explanation, planned for last Thursday, will take 
place this Thursday in the Morewood Recreation Room at 7:30 PM. Last weeks 
presentation was cancelled due to the weather. __________
GIANT BOOK SALE
$110 *2 a
TEXT, TECHNICAL, BUSINESS 
AND GENERAL BOOKS
TREMENDOUS SAVINGS!
DOZENS OF SUBJECTS - 
HUNDREDS OF TITLES
emu bcckstore
IN BAKER HALL
Chase stated that the idea behind the 
programming is to give a sense of commun
ity to the residents. Planned educational 
programs on campus include symposiums 
on the Equal Rights Amendment, drama, 
and rape. Chase also hopes to initiate a 
mini-course program including courses in 
auto mechanics, plant care, horseback 
riding, and CPR, but adds that this will not 
begin until fall, at the earliest. He hopes 
that credit will be given for the courses, 
and this takes time to push through the 
administration.
Social programs are also planned to help 
bridge the gap between the Hill dorms and 
the Morewood dorms. A casino-disco is 
planned for March 4, and a block party to 
be held in the Scobell fire lane, is planned 
for the spring.
Chase admits that the programming 
ideas have appeared suddenly, but ex
plained that it took him and Claudia Chase, 
the Morewood Gardens Resident Director, 
a semester to get used to their jobs. How
ever, he wants programming to become 
active, and expects each R.A. to put to
gether two programs a semester. Some in
clude an exercise class twice a week in the 
Morewood and Donner lobbies, a jogging 
program in Spring, and a ski trip this Fri
day night.
Also planned for this weekend is free ice 
skating at Schenley Park. This is for dorm
itory residents only, since funds are in
tended for their use. However, most of the 
programs are open to the campus community.
Chase hopes that these programming 
ideas will help to make life at CMU better. 
Its not home, but its the only thing most 
students have. If residents get interested in 
their area, like painting the walls to make 
their rooms and halls more pleasing, theyll 
feel settled in.
SDC results
Here are the results of the SDC represent
ative election, January 19:
Seats Constituency Won By
Open
2 Boss, McGill Bill Sisak
Dave Valia
7
Doherty, 
Roselawn, & 
Woodlawn
Rob McMillin
Hamerschlag Sam Zing
MG A&B 
Towers
MG E 
Tower
Shirley & 
Webster
Mudge
Karen Babcock 
Adrian DeWindt 
Paula Croom 
Diane Mogren
Barney Wilson 
Randy Over
Veronica Tyler 
Cindy Saulk
Gary Quinones 
Linda Voorhis
The SDC space
by Stephanie Waite
At the last SDC meeting, held January 
22, a rousing 60% of the old representa
tives (worse attendance record than the 
96th congress) showed up to welcome the 
new representatives; five of whom, in the 
true SDC tradition, did not show up.
Those who didnt show up missed a 
really exciting meeting. Various committee 
reports were made. Social and Spring Car
nival Committee discussed where the SDC 
tent shouldjx^put up this year at Carnival. 
Last year it was placed in the Skibo 
parking lot but this year parking rates have 
gone up tremendously, so another spot 
must be found.
Intramural committee, led by its long 
lost chairman Rich Tucker, had no report.
Booth Chairman Eric Huhn, who led 
the SDC booth to victory last year, but 
reneged on the blasted thing this year, re
peated his conviction that there is about 
as much interest in booth this year as there 
is in the mating habits of Alaskan King 
Crabs.
Fire and Safety Committee, led by 
Tim Fire Roscoe and Carolyn Safety 
Stewart, read a memo they wrote to CMU 
President Richard Cyert on the subject of 
security in Donner. Ever the go-getter, 
Roscoe demanded that Cyert answer the 
memo by January 25, or else he would go 
to Warner Hall in person and force a reply 
out of him.
Officers reports were made, and the 
topic of where to put the tent during 
Spring Carnival was brought up. President 
Sam Grego brought up the idea, proposed 
by Cyert, to have a joint dance with 
Chatham College, to be held at Chatham. 
Donner rep Abby Selman stated, If they 
want to dance, let them come over here 
and dance.
Bill Dillon showed up at this weeks 
meeting and discussed, among other things, 
where to put the tent during Spring Carni
val. Dillon mentioned that the tent should 
definitely not be out on the cut, since 
when the tent was on the cut during Home
coming, it sank slowly into the mu^J, along 
with several unidentified alumni. Dillon 
stated that CMU would not have use of 
Webster Hall next year, and outlined for 
SDC some of the alternatives. Most in
teresting was the idea that some 200 
female students would deign to live at 
Carlow College, while making the halfhour hike to CMU for purposes of complet
ing their education.
Questions flew as to why there was no 
hot water in Donner Hall in the morning. 
Chastising students for wanting such 
luxuries as lukewarm shower water, Dillon 
suggested that students try to space their 
showers more evenly, suggesting that per
haps turnstiles should be installed. Dillon 
added, After the recent rape, women in 
Donner shouldnt even be taking showers 
any more.
The three Boss residents who wrote a 
letter to the TARTAN complaining about 
new housing director Gerry Daltons poli
cies attended the meeting and voiced their 
complaints to Dillon. Dillon stated that 
there was no reason to assume that Dalton 
was making himself unavailable to students.
Next Week:Repeat of Readership Poll
If you have questions, comments, suggestions, or criticisms about FOOD SERVICE,

---------------------------------------------------

January! 31, 1978TARTAN-page 3
The Dean speaks
Senate murmurs
by Linda Deak
The Academic Affairs committee was 
exceptionally verbose at Senates last 
meeting of January 25. The committee 
drafted a letter which will be sent to Dean 
Kaplan, expressing Senates concern on 
matters such as: The allocation of AMS 
faculty, department administration, 
redesign of curriculum, and AMS service 
courses offered to the University com
munity. The letter will be signed by John 
Tumazos who was voted in chairperson 
after Elliot Ohlbergs resignation. Both 
Tumazos and Ohlberg are meeting with Dr. 
Schatz to discuss the problem of foreign 
faculty who cannot speak English clearly.
Ohlberg also read a memo from the 
Educational Affairs committee which re
quested student input on the issues of 
assigning +,  letter grades, revising the 
fall semester final exam schedule, and ex
amining the cheating problem.
Sam Grego asked Senate to approve his 
motion that housing priority for grad 
students be placed lower than the under
graduates. GS1A senator Tumazos battled 
against undergrad senators as he felt trans
fer students and first year grads should 
have second housing priority. The heated 
discussion was stifled when the General 
Campus committee gained custody of the 
hot issue.
John Lubon asked each senator to sub
mit two names for Whos Who Among 
Students in American Universities and 
Colleges. All students and grads are elig
ible. If you run into an exceptional student, 
submit his name to the senator of your 
constituency.
Did your club forget to fill out a club 
survey form? Rules chairperson Carl Fetteroll has magnanimously extended the 
completion deadline to February 3. The 
forms may be turned in at Skibo Informa
tion Desk.
Fetteroll has also suggested that General 
Campus investigate the renting of a pep 
bus for the February 24 basketball game 
against Bethany.
Due to schedule conflicts, the Senate 
meetings are now held on Tuesday at 7:00 
PM in the Wherrett Room.
Late note: Senate Finance Committee 
has recommended to cut out WRCT foot
ball broadcasts.
Crecine talks about core curriculum
by Saul Carliner
This is the first of a five part series in 
which each of the college heads describes 
his departments strengths and weaknesses.
John P. Crecine became Dean of the 
College of Humanities and Social Sciences 
over two years ago. Since then, he has es
tablished an Academic Advisory Center for 
H&SS freshmen and sophomores. Part of 
the advising process includes evaluations of 
each H&SS students performance in a 
course sponsored by that college. He has 
also developed a core curriculum of courses 
which gives structure to the program.
Crecine commented that the new core 
curriculum is designed to provide the skills 
fundamental to a first-rate liberal educa
tion. The core, he feels, is our crack at 
what those skills are.
The core, Crecine stated, is a highly 
structured program for the first year and 
a half of college, in which students take 
the same courses in the same sequence. 
Students are taught writing; literary, hist
orical, and philosophical analysis; mathe
matical. statistical and computational skills.
Crecine added -that a major strength of 
the program is the integration between 
courses. For instance, students will take a 
computer course this semester and use it 
to analyze statistics of the 1972 election 
for a socialization course. This allows 
for connection between fields, he stated, 
and leaves students open with a wide 
range of options. In order to leave all i 
options open, H&SS students do not have 
to declare a major unitl the middle of their I 
sophomore year.
Crecine likes the idea of the core cur
riculums diversity, because students used 
to go into their department in their fresh
man year, and study only their field. Now 
they have a more diversified exposure.
Students in the core who are consider
ing transfering to CIT/MIS are encouraged 
to take the required science courses as their 
electives, since these courses are not part of 
the core-curriculum. Crecine also said that 
students from CIT/MIS and CFA are segre
gated out of H&SS sections of such cour
ses as Freshman Writing, because of inte
gration between courses. Course material 
in H&SS sections which tie in to other 
core courses will make no sense to others, 
Crecine continued.
He then evaluated the performance of 
the various departments in his college.
Crecine believes that undergraduate edu
cation in Economics needs more attention.
uiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
ATTENTION:
ALL ORGANIZATIONS.
CLUB SURVEY FORMS ARE AT THE 
INFORMATION DESK. THEY MUST 
BE FILLED OUT BY FEBRUARY 3. 
ANY QUESTIONS CONTACT RULES 
COMMITTEE THROUGH THE INFOR 
MATION DESK.
Since the department is staffed mainly by 
GSIA, the undergrads get whats left after 
GSIA takes care of its graduates and re
search programs. Crecine added that if 
speculation about the AMS department 
moving came true, it would probably 
become part of H & SS. He envisions 
AMS as an upper division program only; 
one that students must apply to after 
their sophomore year and be accepted in 
Crecine feels that English Department 
has done well under acting head Hayes. 
adding tnat ne expects to have a perman
ent department head by the end of the 
academic year. He believes that the depart
ment is productive and while national 
ratings do not rate it, the department is 
hard to rank in a traditional mode, be
cause of the emphasis on writing and the 
nature of that writing. Most schools con
centrate on literature.
Both History and Philosophy and 
Modern Language Department, lack 
majors, Crecine explained, though both 
have excellent faculties. Crecine does not 
believe the large History classes are over
crowded, though he worries about an 
enrollment drop in Modern Languages, 
since all college foreign language require
ments have been dropped. Crecine sees a 
unique opportunity for the Philosophy 
program to explore business ethics, be
cause of the professional nature of the
school. He also sees trouble ahead for the 
Modern Languages if their trend toward 
technical translation does not attract 
students. However, Crecine does not 
expect any immediate action in the near 
future.
The Psychology Department has inte
grated well into the College, Crecine 
stated. He thinks the research done in that 
department is exciting and adds that you 
cant find a better school for cognitive 
psychology.
He hopes that the new Social Sciences 
Department, which took over the old 
Social Relations Department will soon 
be the finest undergraduate school in 
public policy. Their curriculum will 
focus on bureaucratic decision making.
Crecine said that minors are a mixed 
bag. Professional subfield programs are 
an excellent idea in which students ideal
ly gain professional skills, but some pro
grams have difficulty. Students in the basic 
visual and verbal communications sub
field have no problem taking the English 
courses, but have difficulty getting into 
the design courses.
In light of all this, Crecine feels that 
the accuracy of the H&SS image is three 
years out of date. He believes the image 
developed when H&SS professors were 
lenient with non-H&SS majors, but not 
with students in their own college.
I
limiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiimmiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiimiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiir,
call the FOOD SERVICE DIRECTORS HOT LINE, X2127, Monday 5pm-6pm.

---------------------------------------------------

page 4-TARTAN-January 31,1978
MASS - BUFFET DISCUSSION
TUESDAY JANUARY 31 6:00 P.M. 
CMU's CHAPEL (SKIBO 39)
Theme: Search - The discovery of God in Human Experience.
SUNDAY MASSES:
7:00 P.M. Saturday Folk Mass 
10:30 A.M. Folk Mass
12:00 Noon Solemn Liturgy -----
Hunt Library 
Multipurpose Room
Heinz Chapel
DAILY MASSES Monday through Friday
12:30 Noontime CMUs Chapel (Skibo 39)
&
University Oratory of the Holy Spirit Parish 
CMUs R.C. Chaplaincy - Fr. Bob English 
4040 Bigelow Blvd. Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213 
(412) 681-3181
Kaplan responds 
to rating drop
continued from page 1
CMU and Penn (Wharton).
Irregardless of rating technique, Kaplan 
feels that Harvard, Stanford, and Chicago 
are generally at the top, with M.I.T., CMU, 
and Penn right behind.
In concluding his remarks, Kaplan 
writes that, Business schools, unlike eggs, 
are not homogenous commodities whose 
quality can be ranked on a single dimen
sion. The educational goals and philoso
phy of GSIA are quite different from those 
of Harvard or Wharton. Given what we are 
trying to achieve, I believe the current pro
gram and faculty achieves it very well. 
Changes will not be made in the program in 
the hope they will improve our MBA rank
ings. The true judges of the quality of our 
program are our graduates and their em
ployers and I am always open to sugges
tions from them about how the output 
of our program can be improved.
identify yourself, with a haircut!
Every individual is unique. Special. One-of-a-kind. That's the 
way haircuts should be, too. Specially tailored to match you - - 
your face, your personality, your vision of yourself. Great "X 
customers always know they're getting the best 
hairstyling value for their money. That's 
because hairstyling is our only business. 
That's all we do! Great "X" ... mor 
than 50 salons across the country, 
ready to help you identify yourself.
HAIRCUTS
(Wash-Cut-Blow)
10
.00
GftEffTCHfCCJilTIOItS.
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS 
NO APPOINTMENT____EVER
COLORINGS PERMANENTS
UNISEX HAIR SALON
237 ATWOOD STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA 15213 25
687-3500
Mon. Tues. Wed. 10-7 
Thurs. Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 10-9 
NO APPOINTMENTS
DORM STUDENTS!
Here is your chance to help 
build a Spring Carnival Booth
SDC is in need of workers 
for its booth committee
If interested, contact 
Eric Huhn 578-4212 
or
Sam Grego 578-9022 
by February 16.
ALL ftlGHT,
rf/5S CLASAJd !/V THE' 
F/UST APPLICANT.

---------------------------------------------------

January 31,1978-TARTAN-page 5
Professors speak out on cheating problem
continued from page 1
get out of school.
Senior professor of English My tests are 
all open book, calling not for information, 
so much as interpretation. If any cheating 
occurs it is usually on papers. 1 deter cheat
ing by changing paper topics in every 
teaching of the course. One student used 
Cliff Notes on a paper--which was very easy 
to spot. When devising paper topics, I try 
to use ones on which there is little or no 
published material, forcing the student to 
be original.
Roland Smith (History) I would define 
cheating as misrepresenting someone elses 
knowledge and skills as your own. If I 
caught anyone cheating, I would handle it 
on an individual basis. Although the nature 
of society seems to be survival of the 
fittest, I try to establish a classroom 
where that is not necessary. I emphasize 
the requirements in advance, eliminating 
the guesswork between the student and the 
professor. This minimizes a turning to 
scheming in order to be able to do well. I 
emphasize growth and development of the 
student over time.
Edward Prescott (Economics) I view 
:heating as copying someones work, even 
if its a graded homework assignment. I 
guess the immediate solution is to spread 
people out when giving tests, and give dif
ferent versions of the test in large lectures. 
David Demarest (English) I think a lot of 
cheating occurs in classes which deserve to 
be cheated on, where profs dont care and 
assignments arent explained. I think a pro
fessor, especially in English, can minimize 
if with the type of assignments he makes 
if he trys to have a fair amount of contact 
with students and enough written work 
to recognize the students style. I dont 
think it is my role to police students. 
Robert Swinehart (Design) I have never 
seen a blatantly copied idea in any of my 
courses. I recognize similarities, but if the 
student uses past work and modifies it as
an educational experience, I dont view 
that as copying. It is more difficult to cheat 
in the Visual Arts than in courses where 
tests are given. Students are judged on per
formance according to design criteria. I 
admit that it is difficult to determine if 
something should be considered cheating 
when the emphasis is on performance. 
John Fetkovich (Physics) I have taught 
both large and small class size lecture 
courses, and it is relatively easy to spot a 
good percentage of cheating, even in large 
classes. When I taught Physics I, I caught a 
number of students cheating on exams. 1 
handled it on a very personal, individual 
basis, for freshmen may not realize the im
plications of cheating, and drastic measures 
may definitely harm their future careers.
I have noticed that students will try to 
hand in papers for regrading after the test 
has been discussed in class, but the writing 
in of an answer or procedure is also easy to 
spot if youve taught for several years. 
Some seniors, whom I have dealt with for 
cheating as freshmen, have remarked that 
the experience had a positive effect on the 
rest of their undergraduate education. 
Morton Gurtin (Mathematics) I teach 
Calculus I, which has two lectures, one in 
7500 and one in Doherty Hall. It would be 
impossible to give a single test in either 
lecture, so we make up three versions of 
each test, changing order, numerical data. 
We hand out a course description defining 
our test policies reading any student caught 
with an answer to one of the other tests on 
his paper will receive a zero on that exam. 
Unfortunately, students still try to copy. 
We have also made it clear that no student 
leaves without handing in a test.
In the upper level courses, 1 usually give 
take-home tests where there is often colla
boration. I ask students to give other stu
dents credit if they were helped in under
standing problems. I usually give students a 
zero for the test if they are honest enough 
to admit to cheating. However, I caught
PUCCINI
SPECIAL 
PACKAGE
Come to PUCCINIS and ask for the 
SPECIAL PACKAGE.
You 7/ redeve a shampoo, cut and blouhdry style 
PLUS a bottle of shampoo and a styling brush. 
The merchandise alone is worth $&, but 11ii i 
is offering this entire package for just $15.
CALL OR STOP IN FOR AN APPOINTMENT
OFFER GOOD THRU FEBRUARY 15
PUCCINI
113 If iifiil M. (filili
621-2087
two students cheating on a final and failed 
them for the course.
Earle Swank, Dean of Student Affairs, 
feels that The faculty are making a con
scientious effort to monitor exams, evident 
by the fact that a case of copying an exam
ination hasnt been brought to the Univer
sity Committee on Discipline for two 
years. The faculty is also examining stud
ent work more carefully for evidence of 
cheating or plagiarism.
Students are warned against plagiarism 
and cheating in the CMU Student Hand
book. It states, Wherever a phrase, written 
or musical, a graphic element, a proof, or 
specific language is reproduced in the work 
submitted by a student, failure to indicate 
the source with quotation where appropri
ate, constitutes plagiarism and is subject to 
disciplinary action. Actions considered 
cheating are also listed.
Students accused of plagiarism
The University Committee on Discipline 
heard three plagiarism cases in the past 
year where students were accused because 
the professor recognized the original
work. All three students were given anR 
in their respective courses and placed on 
disciplinary probation for one year.
In recent years, students caught plagjar 
izing pleaded that they did not know the 
definition of plagiarism. A committee of 
the Student Affairs Council was set up to 
determine definitions of cheating and 
discipline. Richard Montgomery, a pro
fessor who serves on the committee, com
ments, A memo was inserted into each 
students fall 77 registration packet, 
hopefully to rule out excuses of ignorance 
to university policy.
Montgomery was also an undergrad in 
the early sixties, when, he claimed, there 
was an atmosphere which definitely led to 
cheating. The professors were trying to 
weed out the A+s from the As with no 
concern for how much the C student was 
learning. That was also a time, youd see 
someone you know and ask, What did you 
do on the last test? before youd say 
hello. It was that competitive, I think the 
atmosphere has definitely changed now, it 
isnt necessary to cheat.
Wilson Brian Key, author of Subliminal Seduction and Media Sexploitation spoke at CMU last 
Tuesday on sexual imagery in advertisement. __________________________
SDC VALENTINE'S DAY 
SEMI-FORMAL
featuring
"SILVER FOX
II
FRIDAY FEBRUARY 10, 
IN SKIBO BALLROOM 
FROM 9-12
REFRESHMENTS SERVED 
FREE ROSES FOR LADIES
50 ADMISSION AT THE DOOR
Hamanan

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN
Budget follies 78
Its that time of year againthe time when student or
ganizations present their budgets for next year to the Sen
ate Finance Committee So far, WRCT has been the first of 
the big three to come under Finance Cpmmittees knife. 
The TARTAN and Activities Board are still to come.
WRCT, whose license to broadcast is held by Student 
Corporation, presented a budget of $18,078 to Corporation 
before entering its hearings. Corporation, under the direc
tion of Don Simon, himself an old Finance Committee head 
who reveals that he doesn't like "padding budgets, pared 
the budget down to $9,671. The result? Finance Committee 
cut the budget further to $7,000-and-change-the lowest 
amount since WRCT became FM in 1974.
Granted, times are tough and frugality is to be admired. 
But Finance Committees cuts seem downright inexplicable. 
About $500, earmarked for broadcasting Tartan football 
games, was eliminated. The Committee reasoned that 
WD VO broadcasts Tartan football games and such duplicity 
is frivolous Conceivably, the Committee will next cut out 
money for records using the same reason. Also cut was $100 
meant for giving out free t-shirts at Spring Carnival. The 
Committee wishes that WRCT sells their t-shirts instead.
Strangely enough, Finance Committee gave WRCT more 
money where they didnt ask for more money$ 15 more 
for advertising and $100 more for posters.
The real question this matter suggests is Why is Finance 
Committee so intent on saving its money? According to 
many people, theyre saving their money for the Baseball 
Club and the Hockey Club, which are two activities Senate 
shouldn t be funding at all. These activities should be fund
ed through the Athletics Department. Finance Committee, 
obviously worried that it will not have enough money to 
fund these new dubs (foisted upon them by Senate earlier 
this year), is now forced to rob Peter to pay Paul. The ques
tion that must be asked is, Who deserves and needs this 
money? Its dear to us that WRCT is a service and a dub 
that affects more people than these two sports dubs ever 
will. Senate and the Finance Committee are both working 
under a set of ill-conceived priorities.
Reusing hamburgers
Are you hungry? Do you crave something from the Grill, 
but have no money? Dont despair-there are ways to get 
around such problems. If you can manage to put a sincere 
expression of hunger on your face, stumble into the Grill 
a few minutes before midnight (dosing time) on any night, 
and gasp, Im starving! Dont you have anything left that 
/ can buy?, you will probably be rewarded with that 
nights leftovers, free of charge.
Its not advisable to do this too often, however, for a 
number of reasons. First, you will earn a reputation as a 
scavenger. Such a reputation and such a practice in the 
formative years of college can only lead to using food 
stamps, going on welfare, and worse things later on in life.
Second, the people working at the Grill will soon recog
nize you and become suspicious. If they catch on to your 
crafty trick and see through that sincere expression on 
your face, the handouts might stop. Dont attempt midnight 
scavenging too often.
Third, you may be denying someone their lunch the 
next day. Hows that? Well, the girl who doled out the left
overs one night this past weekend let out the secret that 
the nights remaining hamburgers are used in the next days 
lunch downstairs in Ski bo.
She wasn 7 certain of this, and begged that her scavengers 
not jump to any premature conclusions. All she did know 
was that she was assigned the job of peeling the hamburger 
patties off their sticking buns and wrapping the patties in 
foil. She was told that the patties were reused, but she 
couldnt be sure that the person who told her this was 
serious.
Its probably true, and although its an unappetizing 
thought, in all honesty it doesnt come as a great surprise.
Next time youre about to bite into a burger in the 
Kiltie Cafe, take time out to think where that patty might 
have been just last night. Then, bon appetit!
Sherry Siegel 
Editor-in-Chief
--
Letters
Erratic Mail
Editor:
Why is it that the mail boxes in 
Donner Hall are usually empty? It 
could be that the CMU students 
eagerly await the arrival of the 
mail every day and snatch it from 
the carriers hands. Alas, this is 
not true. The real reason is that 
there is no mail in the mail boxes 
to begin with.
Perhaps the trouble is that the 
students do not know when to ex
pect the mail. Perhaps not. The 
problem is that the mail service 
is not sure, itself, about when to 
deliver the mail. It is my opinion 
that the mail carriers are either 
not concerned with the quality of 
work that they do or they cannot 
read the basic clock.
For instance, why was the mail 
delivered at ten in the morning 
one day last week and at two in 
the afternoon the next day? 
Many times mail is delivered the 
next day, or at night. What sane 
person feels like walking to 
Donner to get mail at night?
One guy, across the hall, is still 
waiting for a letter that was sent 
from Ford City, Pa., on Jan. 9th. 
Why does it take so long? Another 
complaint is the sporadic manner 
in which the out-going mail drop 
is emptied. Sometimes, the box is 
emptied as often as once a week.
On Jan. 24th the mail was 
delivered at 3:30 in the afternoon. 
I asked one of the carriers when 
the mail would be completely 
sorted. I was told that because 
there were three bags, it would 
take about 2lA hours to sort. A 
half hour later the mail room was 
empty. There were two full mail 
bags leaning against the back wall. 
What had happened to the car
riers? Maybe, because of human 
need, they quit to eat and would 
come back later to finish. But at 
9:30 PM the bags were untouched 
and still unsorted. Maybe the 
carriers were kidnapped. No, 
thats unlikely, but they couldnt 
have forgotten, could they?
Jeff Blanz
Where Are You, CMU? 
Editor:
I recently had cause to visit 
CMU for a weekend and was 
amazed by the lack of signs 
identifying your school. As I 
drove up through the potholes on 
what was left of Fifth Ave. (and 
that is another complaint, where 
are Pittsburghs road crews?) I 
scanned right, and scanned left. 
But where was CMU? I saw some 
buildings that were taller than the 
ones around them and thought, 
Well thats either a hospital or a 
university, so I took my chances 
and lo and behold, CMU. The 
point is, why arent there any 
signs in Oakland or Squirrel Hill 
directing one to CMU? And once 
we find the place, why arent 
there any signs (large ones) in 
front of the Skibo parking lot or 
in front of Warner Hall? And how 
about some visitor parking spaces? 
Or are we supposed to park in 
Oakland and hoof it up the hill?
Bill Tracy
(No longer a prospective student)
TARTAN
Volume 78January 31, 1978Number 17
Editor-in-Chief; 
Managing F ditor: 
Business Manager: 
News Editor: 
Entertainment Editor.
Folio Editor: 
Sports Editor: 
Photoqraphy Editor
Sherry Siegel 
Tim Shields 
Ellen J. Silverman 
Saul Carliner 
Casey Childs 
K.A. Yaksich 
Mike Jochmann 
V.R.V. Ramanan
Photography Staff: Mike Bergman, Skip Brazelton, Tad Dickenson, George Lecomte, Chris Morrow, Mark Segal 
Production Assistants: Linda Deak, Gary Walter
Copyright 1978 by the Carnegie-Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit or 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Govern
ment of Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213 Fditorial Offices Skibo 50; (412) 578- 
2111 or 2112 Business Offices Skibo 52; (412) 5782111
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

---------------------------------------------------

Carnegie-Mellon University
INTER OFFICE CORRESPONDENCEFrom: SDC Fire/Safety Committee
To:
From:
Date:
Subject:
Bob Anderegg, Security/Safety Coordinator 
Timothy G. Roscoe, SDC Fire/Safety Chairman 
January 16, 1978 
Donner Security
The following motion was made and unanimously passed at the January 15 SDC meet
ing. I urge its implementation by the end of January.
^ Be it recommended that in an effort to improve the security of the students and prop
erty of the students of Donner Hall Dormitory, the following procedure be administered:
During the specific hours designated by a vote of students as Danger Hours, The main 
doors at the west end, east end, and basement levels be locked, and all residents of 
Donner Hall be given keys. Also that a monitor be placed in the lobby during these 
hours to check IDs of those who wish to enter Donner Hall but are not residents. These 
people will have to:
$ A) if they are CMU students, leave their ID.
B) if they are not CMU students, they must leave three valid IDs preferably including 
a college ID and a drivers license, and also that they sign in.
If this system is executed effectively, it will serve to keep out non-residents who wish 
to do harm to the residents or property of Donner Hall and also open the interior of the 
Dorm itself.
Amendment: Be it also recommended that the Womens Lavatories also be locked.
Date: January 16, 1978
Subject: Donner Hall security
This letter is in reference to the January 15 Student Dormitory Council motion and 
our January 16 meeting with Robert Anderegg. A copy of the memorandum presenting 
the SDC motion is attached. After meeting with the residents of the first and second 
floors of Donner Hall, SDC and Mr. Anderegg, this committee of SDC would like to make 
the following proposals:
1. The outer doors of Donner Hall be locked from 11 PM to 7 AM and each resident 
be furnished a key.
2. The locks be removed from the fire doors on the womens floors.
3. A security guard or university employee with security training be placed on duty in 
the lobby to check the identification of all non-residents and to create a more secure at
mosphere.
4. The shower doors on the womens floors be locked at all times and each resident 
furnished a key.
5. The security patrols in all the dormitories be stepped up during vacations and the 
first and last few days of each semester.
As the situation now stands, the locked fire doors on the womens floors do provide 
a measure of security for the women residents. They however do not provide any security 
for the rest of the dormitory or for a women when she is not on her floor. These locked 
fire doors also are a fire hazard: they impede easy exit from these two floors. The stu
dents have requested a trained security guard because they feel that only a professional 
can perform this job adequately in an emergency. The women residents have requested 
the shower doors be locked because all of the incidences have occurred in the showers: 
one attempted attack in 1975, one attack in 1975 and the rape at the end of last semes
ter. This committee recommends that security patrols be increased during vacations and 
during the first and last few days of each semester because the few remaining students in 
the dormitories are more vulnerable to robbery or attack.
We appreciate your concern and we expect to hear from you on this matter by Jan
uary 25, 1978.
Sincerely,
Timothy Roscoe, Chairman
Carolyn E. StewartANNOUNCEMENTS
The H&SS College Council will hold a
meeting on Friday, February 3, at 1:30 
in Baker Hall, Room 246A.
Inge Druckrey of Yale University will
speak on "Design Practice and Education: 
a Personal View" on Wednesday, Feb
ruary 1 at 8:00PM in Science Hall 7500. 
This is the second of the series of Spring 
lectures sponsored by the CMU Depart
ment of Design.
"Wealth, Propertylessness, and the Wel
fare State: How Successful Programs Cre
ate Ignorant Policies" will be discussed 
by Dr. Hugh Heclo, Senior Fellow, The 
Brookings Institution, on February 2. 
1978 at 4:00 PM in Baker Hall 231. 
Sponsored by the Graduate Program in 
Applied History and Social Science. 
Track Meeting: All those interested in 
track, meet at Donner Hall, on Monday, 
Feb. 6 at 4:45 PM.
An Oneg Shabbat will be held Friday, Feb
ruary 3 at 8:30 PM at Morewood E Tower 
Apt. 105. It is informal and refreshments 
will be served. Come meet new people. 
Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh's annual 
Used Book Sale is scheduled for Feb. 2-4 
in the basement of its East Liberty Branch, 
Baum & Whitfield Streets.
The sale will begin Thursday, Feb. 2, 
from 6 to 8 PM, and continue through 
Friday and Saturday from 9 to 5 both 
days.
Approximately 20,000 volumes remain 
after Carnegie branches, Allegheny County 
municipal libraries, and other tax-support
ed libraries in western Pennsylvania have 
selected books to supplement their own 
collections.
The withdrawn books cover a wide 
variety of subjects, including fiction and 
non-fiction for both adults and children. 
They have been selected from duplicates, 
heavily worn copies, and books no longer 
in demand.
All books will be offered to the public 
at a nominal cost, 25 cents for hardbacks 
and 10 cents for paperbacks, along with a 
limited number of phonograph records.
Coal and America's Energy Needs will
be the subject of a lecture and panel dis
cussion sponsored by the CMU Chapter of 
Sigma Xi. It will feature Dr. Stanford S. 
Penner, Professor of Engineering Physics 
and Director of the Energy Center at the 
University of California at San Diego, 
speaking on "The National Energy Plan 
with Emphasis on Coal Utilization and 
Long Term Environmental Impact Asses
sment.
The lecture will be in the Mellon Insti
tute conference room(use the Bellefield St. 
entrance) and will begin at 8 PM, Tuesday, 
Feb. 14. For further details contact Dr. 
A. Terry Bahill, 578-252I or 578-2536.
Israeli Dancing takes place every Thursday
at 8:00 PM at the B'nai B'rith Hillel.
The Chatham College Film Society invites
all CMU students to a showing of "Bad
lands" in the Eddy Theatre on the Chat
ham campus. The film will be shown at 
7:30 PM on Saturday, February 11. 
There is an admission charge of $1. 
There will be Episcopalian prayer services 
given by Chaplain Jonathan Appleyard in 
Room 39 of Skibo every Monday at noon, 
Wednesday at noon, and Thursdays at 
1:00 PM.
The CMU Volleyball Club will host the
opening tournament of the Western Penn
sylvania Intercollegiate Volleyball Associa
tion on Sunday, February 5. Ten college 
teains from the tri-state area will be com
peting. Round robin play begins at 9 00 
AM in the Main Gym, followed by play
offs and a championship match in the late 
afternoon. The campus comminity is 
invited to attend.
Auditions for the Black Arts Talent Show
for Black Week will be held in Thistle 
Hall (located in CMU's Physical Education 
Building) on Saturday and Sunday, Feb 
ruary 4 and 5 at 6:00 PM Needed are 
actors, singers, musicians, etc. Please pre
pare a 2-5 minute audition selection, 
dress comfortably, and be prompt. Call or 
see Mike Hanna or Carole Cohen to sched
ule your audition. (C-MAP office, 410 
MMC, 578-2150).
InterVarsity Christian Fellowship will
meet on Wednesday, February 1, at 7:00 
PM in Skibo Room 39. Speaking will be 
Pastor Bob on "The Cost of Being a 
Christian." All are invited to attend.
AB Coffeehouse and Food Service present
Gene Corbin, singer extraordinaire, and 
monologuist Daria Okugawa on Friday, 
February 3 at 9:30 PM in the Skibo 
Cafeteria. Admission is free, and food 
and drink will be available.
John P. Crecine, Dean of the College of
Humanities and Social Sciences will have 
office hours for student, Tuesdays from 
1 30 to 3:30, in 260 Baker Hall.
Helen O'Bannon will be discussing
"Women in the Working World, Women in 
Business" on Wednesday, February 1 at
8 PM in the Hunt Library Multi-Purpose 
Room. Ms. O'Bannon, formerly the Associ
ate Dean of CIT, is currently working for 
the Public Utilities Commission This pre
sentation is sponsored by the Society of 
Women Engineers and the entire campus 
community is welcome to attend. 
SINGERS: SACRED HARP is an old
time Southern tradition of singing hymns 
written in shape-notes. Its four-part 
harmonies have an unusual, but appeal
ing, flavor. Wednesdays at 8 PM, an infor
mal group meets at 207 Morewood Ave. to 
sing Sacred Harp for the pure fun of it 
Singers of all levels of experience are 
welcome. For further information, call 
Mark Radomski at 5782983.
Gay Supporters at Pitt welcome all CMU
supporters. Meetings are held every Sunday 
at 6 00 PM. Check the personals in the 
back of the Pitt News for location and 
further information.
The Makeup Crew for Scotch 'n'
Soda's spring musical. Woodwind, will 
have its organizational meeting Saturday, 
February 4 at 1:30 PM in Room 11, 
Skibo. All interested persons should 
attend. No experience is required. For 
further information, contact Rich Guttendorf, 5784072.
The Student Government Programming
Committee will meet on Tuesday, Febru
ary 7 at 8:30 PM in Skibo Room 33. Any 
student or groups of students who has a 
well thought out, innovative proposal for 
on campus programming can be placed on 
the agenda for the meeting by calling 
Amy Boyle at 687-0126.
Philosophy Lecture: Dan Turner of
Ohio State will speak on the subject of 
How to Get Away With Holding That 
No One Is Morally Responsible." The lec
ture will be given in Baker Hall, Room 
246A, on February 1, at 4:00PM. It is 
open to the public.
Pitt Bridge Club invites all interested CMU
students to participate in its weekly du
plicate game, Tuesday evening at 7:30 
at the Pitt Student Union Sun Porch.
All tutors for the Free Academic Student
Tutoring Program must attend one of the 
following meetings: Wednesday, February 
1, at 4:30 PM, or another at 7:00 PM on 
Thursday, February 2. Both meetings will 
be held in the Peer Help office, which is 
located in Baker Hall 150A
The Alternative Coffeehouse will feature
the East Wing String Band, a blue grass, 
folk and country rock band, on Friday 
night, February 3 at 8:30 PM. The Alter
native Coffeehouse is located on the 
Lutheran University Center, 4515 Forbes 
Ave , in Oakland, an 1 is open each Friday 
night from 8:00 PM to 12:00 AM.
The Forbes Street Gallery will offer a new
show today that will continue through 
February 5. The featured artists will be 
Ken Krafchek, Mark Olkack, and Joe 
Sutliff The Gallery will also be showing a 
collection of computer graphics. The 
Gallery is open Wednesday through Sun
day. from 12 to 4, and again on Tuesday, 
Wednesday, and Thursday evenings from
7 to 9. The Forbes Street Gallery is at 
5200 Forbes Avenue, on the cf>rner of 
Forbes and Margaret Morrison Streets.

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTSX.CI ASSIFIEDADS_______
DEADLINE: NOON WEDNESDAY!
Classified rate: $1.00 for every 15 words. 
Announcements are FREE.
3eneral
To All Foreign Students at CMU: Foreign
students are finding jobs overseas through 
the Home Country Employment Registry, 
sponsored by the National Association for 
Foreign Student Affairs(NAFSA). To take 
advantage of this service, simply complete 
a card available from the Foreign Student 
Advisor. The information you provide is 
made available only to bona fide employ
ers. More than 350 employers have used 
the service in the past, including 200 
multinational corporations, I20 domestic 
companies, and 30 others. Employers 
currently are most interested in students 
studying engineering, business administra
tion and other technical fields. Nation
alities of greatest interest are Iran, Japan, 
Venezuela, Brazil, and the Republic of 
China. While the Registry offers no guaran
tee of a job, it does provide one more 
avenue of making your availability known. 
If you have not yet done so, get a bio
graphical card for the Registry from Mrs. 
Mary Stockton, Warner Hall 6II.
The local chapter of the Women's Ordina
tion Conference, the Committee on Wom
en in the Diocese of Pittsburgh and Carlow 
College Campus Ministry will sponsor a 
special service on Sunday, January 29 at
3 PM at Kresge Theater, Carlow College.
It is one year since the Vatican published a 
declaration banning the ordination of 
women to the ministerial priesthood. The 
prayer service is intended to unify and 
sustain the efforts of women and men who 
believe that any person has the right to 
have their call to the priesthood tested, 
regardless of sex.
scholarships awards prizes
Applications are being accepted by the
ROTC Department for 3, 2, and 1 year 
ROTC Scholarships. Applications may 
be picked up at the ROTC offices in 
Margaret Morrison Room B-5 (2d base
ment). Deadline is 1 Feb 78. These are 
full tuition scholarships.
Sophomores and juniors are eligible to
apply for the Book Prize sponsored by 
Mortar Board, CMU's senior honorary. This 
award will be given to a student whose 
studies demand the use of a particular but 
expensive book worth $75.00 or less that 
will aid him or her in the achievement of a 
professional goai. Details and applications 
are available at the Skibo Information 
Desk. Deadline for completed applications 
is 5 PM Monday February 13.
Applications are now available for Delta
Delta Delta Service Projects scholarships. 
The 1978 award of $100 will be made to 
full time, undergraduate women. The re
cipient of this award is automatically 
eligible for one of the national awards of 
$1000, with no additional applications or 
procedures necessary.
Academic record, contribution to cam
pus or community life, promise of ser
vice in the major field, and financial need 
are among the criteria considered.
Applications forms are available in 
Dean Cox's office in Warner Hall, Room 
204. Completed applications must be re
turned on or before February 17, 1978.
Since 1943, Tri Delta has awarded a 
total of over $952,520 to 4,933 deserving 
students. In 1977, approximately 57% 
of these scholarships were awarded to 
unaffiliated students, 34% to Tri Deltas, 
and 9% to other oanhellenic members.
The Society of the Plastics Industry,
Inc., Expanded Polystyrene Division, an
nounces a $1000 scholarship award. Any 
innovative design for almost any practical 
application of-polystyrene foam may win 
an award. First Award: $1000, Second 
Award: $300, Third Award: $200, Two 
Honorable Mentions: $100 each. Details 
available from The Society of the Plas
tics Industry, 3150 Des Plaines Avenue, 
Des Plaines, II., 60018.
An initiated member of any of the five
sororities at Carnegie Mellon University 
whose home is in Trumbull County Ohio 
and who had a 2.5 grade point average may 
apply for the Trumbull County Panhellenic 
Association Scholarship for 197879. 
Details and application forms are available 
in Dean Cox's office, Warner Hall 204. 
The deadline for submitting completed 
applications is April 1, 1978.
clubs
classified
Tech Radio Club: The Tech Radio Club
will meet Monday, Feb. 6, at 7:30 PM in 
Room 40I Hamerschlag Hall. All new 
members are very welcome.
The Computer Club will be holding a meet
ing on Wednesday, February 1, in Room 
33 of Skibo. All interested students are 
cordially invited to attend.
Croaked.
Muffin. Beloved goldfish of Laura, Rose, 
Sheila. January 25. Gift of Scott Pollack. 
Rest in Peace.
Female Roomate wanted for co-ed co
operative house. Own room, convenient 
location. $60/month plus util. 521-7072 
Babysitter wanted. In Squirrel Hill home,
Days. Call 422-8118.
Squirrel HillBartlett Near MurrayRen
tal 3 to 4 students-2 bedroom, large liv
ing, kitchen, 2 baths, private entrance, off 
street parking (2), near theatres, shopping, 
laundry, convenient to bus, restaurant, 
utilities. Immediate occupancy. Call Mr.
Jim Quinn 462-7316.
Roommate Wanted-Female graduate stu- ^
dent or senior to share large Squirrel Hill 
apartment. Call 422-8664.
Fraternities or sororities desirous of rais
ing funds. Call Sam Fibus 621-3364 
Original Wedding Bands: Why buy mass 
produced rings? Have your own unique 
design created. 243-5458. Diamonds.
Typing - Proofreading - Selectric. Symbols, 
Italics, Elite, Pica. Work Guaranteed.. % 
7341331. No answer - 7618584.
Saxophone for sale. Evette Schaffer Alto.
Call 843-1694.
Alone and Pregnant? A confidential,
caring friend, Lifeline, 3413322. 
Free pregnancy testing.
Typing in my homecall 243-3029 after
6 PM.
PSI, Graduate School of Professional
Psychology. Applications are currently 
being accepted for our PhD program in 
Clinical-Counseling Psychology. Existen
tial-humanistic emphasis. State approved 
for professional license. Write for free 
brochure, current catalogue $1.00. Dr. 
George Muench, Director, Dr. Peter Koestenbaum, Dean. PSI College Avenue, Palo 
Alto, California, 94306. {
The TGIF Dance Committee of the Activities Board would like to provide the campus with the music you would like 
to hear. To help the TGIF committee in their programming, please fill out the survey below and deposit it at the 
Skibo Information Desk or send it to the desk through the campus mail by February 14th.
If the following dances were held, which would you be likely to attend?
(please rank in order of desirability, 1 being the most desirable)
-----------A Disco with a disc jockey _______A country rock dance
playing records _______________A jazz festival
______A Disco with a live band _____________A 50's sock hop
______A square dance with caller ________________A 20's swing
What other types of dances would you attend?
What bands would you like to see perform on campus?
Which time would you prefer to attend a dance?
-----------Friday afternoon (4:30)pm ______Friday evening (9:30)pm
Comments:
Thank you for your participation 
Funded by the Student Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

page 1-TARTAN-January 31,1978
TARTAN FOLIO
JANUARY 31. 1978 / VOL. II / ISSUE 1:
THE HISTORY OF MANKIND
EDITOR K.A. YAKSICH
ASSISTANT EDITOR FREDERIC LA POINTE
ART DIRECTOR SCOTT POLLACK
CONTRIBUTING ARTISTS: LISA AMOWITZ
MARK ASKOY 
NEIL BLOOMBERG 
TONY CIOTOLI 
LAURA COOPER 
ANDY EPSTEIN 
ALYCE GOTTESMAN 
CARLA JACKSON 
MICHAEL JL 
LEIBENSPERGER 
SHEILA MELFE 
SCOTT SIBLEY
COVER DESIGN: SCOTT POLLACK
MANS
EVOLUTION
by Fred Lapointe
Back in the Stone Age man was much too un
civilized and unimaginative to wage war. All he 
did was eat and sleep and eat and sleep and eat 
and sleep (until he discovered fire and started 
smoking wild plants; hence the term Stone 
Age). Primitive man had never heard of things 
like overpopulation, the territorial imperative, 
racial prejudice, social propaganda or national 
honor, since all he could do was grunt or belch. 
Nobody had to worry about taxes, GNP, un
employment or inflation. The only welfare 
he was concerned with was his own. Fortu
nately, the development of war would soon 
enable man to achieve progress.
First man invented language which allowed 
people to easily argue with one another. Then 
to win arguments he invented the club, the 
first offensive weapon, and the skull, the first 
defensive weapon (rapidly followed by the 
defensive club). Shortly, man discovered math
ematics,, learning that 2 is greater than I and 3 
is even better to win arguments. It wasn't be
fore long when someone had the bright idea 
of multiplication, so now it was possible for 
armies to settle arguments ( and of course, 
with armies you get divisions). Armies allowed 
more people to get involved in some
thing they might otherwise have missed.
As armies grew they had to be organized 
into ranks and files which was very difficult 
at first since nobody knew what a rank or file 
was. The people that weren't in the army were 
called civilians. The people that were in the army 
were called soldiers (and other derogatory terms 
by civilians). Battlegrounds became the sites of 
great conflict and drama that gave new meaning 
to man's life (in some cases, significantly shorter) 
or at least allowed him to get away from his wife 
for a while.
Great technological progress came about due 
to the military. Invention of the wheel brought 
mobility to the battleground. Instead of getting 
there tired and worn out, one could save his 
strength for the battle or at least get away 
faster on a chariot. Horses even further increas
ed the mobility of the chariot.
As the art of war developed, technology im
proved to make life easier. Man invented bows 
and arrows, lances, pikes, and catapults which 
meant there was less personal contact with his 
opponent ( things like body odor, bad breath, 
bad jokes, etc.). In the meantime, nations were 
in the making and religions were on the rise, so 
man could have something to fight about 
( under whose flag or faith people would live 
in peace)..
A big breakthrough came in war technology 
when gunpowder was discovered, much to the 
surprise of the inventors ( not to mention their 
widows). With gunpowder man used his great 
ingenuity to create cannons; the battlefield had 
been a dull place before, but now there were 
exciting loud noises and flashy colors. But due 
to the cannon's poor mobility and complaining 
doctors overworked with hernia cases, the rifle 
was born.
War also produced thriving economies ( al
though a few may have been killed in the pro
cess). Some people saw that war was always in 
great demand and a few entrepreneurs saw they 
could make a profit by making munitions for 
the army; the really enterprising saw they could 
make an even greater profit by making munition 
for opposing armies. Soon others got in to the 
act, and of course with competition there was 
better quality merchandise  the "new and 
improved" version that shoots farther, faster, 
and percolates coffee for breakfast. Man kept 
up the search for the bigger and better bang, 
and reached what he thought was the ultimate  
the atom bomb ( making a bomb so small that 
one could blow an atom to bits).
Man felt very smug realizing he could wipe 
himself out with the atom bomb  enough 
bombs to kill everybody on earth, not just once 
but many times over (provided people co-operated and kept coming back to life). But push
button warfare seemed to be a drag, so although 
there tend to be too few wars today, there are a 
lot of limited conflicts and suppressed rebellions.
Well, what can man look forward to in the 
future? Killer satellites? Death lasers? That's 
a problem that concerns people today. If de
stroying the earth isn't enough, Star Wars has 
stimulated man's imagination for life in the 
future. - k
Who knows? Maybe, someday, man can make 
the Big Bang Theory the Big Bang Fact.
FOLIO'S NEXT THEME 
------------------------------------
LOVE AND CMU
Let Dr. Cyert be your Valentine as you tell 
5000 TARTAN readers how much you love CMU, 
or how you found true love at CMU, or any oth
er aspect of Love and CMU that interests you! 
Just leave your writing/artwork at the Skibo desk 
by Monday, February 6.
HELP KEEP ROMANCE ALIVE AT CMU 
WRITE FOR FOLIO!

---------------------------------------------------

January 31,1978-TAR TAN-page 11
REWRITTEN CHAPTERS IN AMERICAN HISTORY
Another essay in the series: American HistoryMyth or Legend?
Installment no. 5 
by Michael J. Leibensperger
The Acquisition of the Louisiana Purchase
As the ninteenth century opened, France and 
Britain were once again engaged in a terrific stuggle. French legionnaires under the command of 
Marcelle Schwartz, the infamous Butcher of Glen
dale, ran rampant through the streets of London. 
Rampant went on to win the Boston Marathon 
the next year, but was prevented from taking the 
trophy home to England with him by an angry 
mob of Italian ship merchants (see installment 
no. 10: The Mafia in Colonial America).
The legionnaires were just about to destory the 
city when Schwartz contracted a social disease 
from a wandering Mexican papaya retailer and 
had to call the whole thing off. English history 
texts generally ignore this entire incident, mainly 
because British historians were attending a con
vention in Atlantic City during the raids, and 
when they returned, the people of London were 
too embarrassed to bring the matter up.
Napoleon, who in those days was Big Cheese in 
France, alarmed the United States by forcing 
Spain to give the entire Louisiana territory to 
France. Just how this was accomplished must 
remain a poorly kept secret until the end of time, 
but sources within the French court have made 
references to winning the big backgammon 
tournament" and "giving Madrid a taste of Big 
Nuke" (see installment no. 20: Nuclear Techno
logy and the French Revolution). In any case, the 
French occupation of Louisiana (or, as it was 
called in those days, "Cleveland") disturbed many 
American settlers west of the Appalachians, and 
they clamoured for war. "War! War!" they clam
oured. On numerous occasions, many even went 
so far as to sneak into New Orleans late at night 
and get hopelessly blitzed.
They always returned to their wives late the 
next morning, usually with some cock and bull 
story about "fierce Indian chicken farmers."
To appease the settlers, who wanted the use of 
the Mississippi River for some unspecified pur
pose, Thomas Jefferson decided to try to buy the 
territory from Napoleon. Luckily, Napoleon was 
running into debt financing Schwartz's midnight 
raids on London, and moreover, his soldiers were 
having difficulty quelling a revolt in Haiti (see 
installment no. 8: Revulsion in the French Col
onies). Napoleon sold the Louisiana territory to 
the Unite.d States for $15,000,000, and it was 
thereafter known as The Louisiana Purchase or 
More Tax Money Down the Drain.
The War of 1812
At about that time, the War of 1812 (often 
referred to as "The War to End All Petty Argu
ments") was just beginning. Settlers beyond the 
Appalachians (the same settlers who had talked 
Tom Jefferson into shelling out for Louisiana 
with money taxed from New England oyster 
mongers and who avoided paying their own fed
eral taxes for years) became angry at the British, 
partly for seizing American ships at sea, but 
mainly because they had been told by the French 
that urinating on American flags was a common 
practice in the lavatories of many English restaur
ants. Their representatives in Congress, the "War 
Hawks," decided that if they wanted to keep 
their nickname they had better declare war on 
someone fast. The names British Canada and 
Spanish Florida were duly drawn out of a hat, 
and the fighting began.
American land forces were largely impotent 
during the first part of the war, a fact borne out 
by the low number of war babies in the following 
years.
General Hull attempted to invade Canada early 
in the summer of 1812, and the American troops 
under his command marched bravely across the 
border shouting their now famous battle cry, 
"Don't Shoot!" By the middle of August, Hull 
had succeeded in surrendering Detroit to the Brit
ish, an action which so angered the English King 
that he immediately retaliated by blowing his 
nose and asking for more crumpets. Our Navy did 
somewhat better, sinking several British tugboatsof-war and capturing many important lakes and 
ponds.
In 1814, the British once again made a token 
effort to wipe our beloved Fatherland off the face 
of the poorly drawn map. They captured Wash
ing D.C. and burned down the Senate Office 
Building and the neighboring MacDonald's. They 
bombarded the port of Baltimore and most of 
the starboard as well. It was during this famous 
battle that Francis Scott Key wrote his epic poem 
"Gay Boys in Bondage."
The War of 1812 was ended, mysteriously 
enough, in 1814 in a brothel in Ghent, a small 
town in Europe which no one has been able to 
locate since 1935, when the Ghent Borough 
Council decided to "hide" (see installment no. 
27: Camouflage and the Weimar Republic). The 
Treaty of Ghent, which explicitly states that "the 
War is over," does not specify which war, and so 
Britain's disputes with both France and America 
came to an early conclusion.
QUESTIONS AT THE END OF THE CHAPTER
1. Who was Carl Reiner, and why was he so un
important?
2. Write the first stanza of "Gay Boys in Bond-itage.
3. Who or what was Louisiana named after? Who 
owned the territory before the Spanish? What 
is a Mexican?
4. What was General Hull's first name? What did 
his wife call him? What did his mother-in-law 
call him? What did the Canadians call him? 
Extra for exceptional students: What would 
Trotsky have called him, if Trotsky had wit
nessed the surrender of Detroit?
5. Was the surrender of Detroit considered a) 
a grave mistake, b) a military disaster, or c) 
urban renewal?
6. What about Spanish Florida?
ANDY EPSTEIN

---------------------------------------------------

page 12TARTANJanuary 31,1978
ON THE HISTORY 
OF PERSONKIND
QUESTION
by Carla Jackson
"According to the Book of Genesis, God first 
created Man. Woman was not only an after
thought, but an amenity... It might have been ex
pected that when Darwin came along and wrote 
an entirely different account of The Descent of 
Man this assumption would have been eradicated 
But it wasn't. So began the indignant Elaine 
Morgan in The Descent of Woman, a book design
ed to shock the anthropological world with its 
bizzare viewpointthe viewpoint of a woman.
There is something inherently wrong in a sys
tem in which "man' is both generic and specif
ic. Such ambiguity is typical of the androcen
tric anthropologists running rampant across the 
savannas in the last hundred years. And these 
same persons, maintains Ms. Morgen, are the peo
ple who propounded the "Tarzanist" theory of 
evolutionwith Man the Mighty Hunter in the 
starring role. The Tarzanists set up prehistoric 
scenarios like these:
(The characters are Man, the Mighty Hunter, 
and his mate, the Humble Afterthought. They are 
in their home in the midst of a rolling African 
plain.)
Man: "It's a fine, warm day today, isn't it.
Perhaps it's about time to shed our fur and be
come hairless creatures." -
Woman: "Whatever you say, dear."
Man: "And' as long as we're evolving, how
about walking upright? That way I can see over 
this tall grass when I'm hunting, and I'll have two 
hands free to use tools, after I get around to in
venting them."
Woman: "If you think so, dear. But can't you 
run faster on four legs than on two? Even three 
would be faster...
Man: (He cuts her off abruptly.) "Shut up. I
have another idea. It's called frontal mating. It 
should form a 'cohesive bond' between males and 
females. Won't it be fun, being cohesive?"
Woman: "I'm not sure. It sounds to me like a 
pretty subservient position. How do I know I 
won't be disenbowled when I'm lying helpless 
on my back?"
Man: (He smiles.) "You'll just have to trust
me.
And Woman did, and look where she ended 
up. But Ms. Morgen found another theory which 
accounted for the facts even better than the 
Tarzanists'theory did. It gave credit to the female 
for many evolutionary changes, which certainly 
makes sense in light of the fact that it is the fe
male who is most responsible for the care of the 
young and therefore for the continuation of the 
species. Ms. Morgen's scenario unfolds on a Pi 
Uwi/i lo TAARJ IUI e, and Man and his partner Woman 
are evolving, together.
Woman: "You see, it makes so much more
sense to walk upright. This way, I can go ever so 
much farther from shore than the four-footed 
carnivores, and that way Junior is much less 
prone to becoming somebody's lunch. See how 
easy it is?"
Man: "Fine, but what about this fur? It's go
ing to become pretty uncomfortable walking around chilled to the bone all the time."
Woman: 'That's easy enough to take care of. 
We'll shed it, like the porpoises and whales. And 
how about a layer of nice subcutaneous fat? 
Think of the aesthetic possibilities." (She traces 
an outline in the air.)
Man: "Hmm. It may have potential. But..."
(Man has a one track mind.) "...as lonq as you're
by Scott Sibley
In the beginning, there was God. God created 
the Universe and God created Earth. On this plan
et, God placed lifeplants, animals, Man. Man 
was made in God's image and man thirsted for 
knowledge.
Man continually questionedabout himself, 
about his surroundings, about everything he saw. 
Man searched for answers. Man grouped with 
other men in seeking answers. Man started asking 
questions about other people, other places, other 
things. As Man sought answers, He formed na
tions. Then Man started asking questions about 
the world, about his very existence.
Man saw the seas and wondered. Man saw the 
stars and wondered. Man saw no answers so Man 
created answers. He made myths and invented
gods in order to explain the unknown.
Man was not content with these answers. He 
invented ships and sailed on the High Seas. He 
learned much about His world. Man continuec 
exploring and experimenting and discovering. 
Every answer exposed new questions and His 
search continued.
Man built new ships and traveled among the 
stars. Many questions about His Earth were an
swered and new horizons beckoned Him. Man 
explored.
Man continued to question. He explored the 
far reaches of His Universe. He lived throughout 
the heavens, but Earth was still his home. Fin
ally, only one question remained and one an
swer. The answer, Man found, was there from 
the beginning.
The answer was God.
''V'
bringing porpoises into this discussion, how about 
trying frontal mating? That's how they go about 
it, you know."
Woman. "I was afraid you'd bring that up 
sooner or later. Why don't we try something dif
ferent, okay?
Man (who may be slow but who isn't stupid): 
"I have an idea. How about if I'm very gentle, and 
bring you presents, and groom your hair, and 
things like that? Then you can see that I'm friend
ly, and it won't be nearly so bad."
And so, along with the standard evolutionary 
adaptations, love was also introduced into the 
picture. Anthropologists can dispute this theory 
all they want, but I think it's a perfectly wonder
ful idea. A little innovation never hurt anybody.
lip 
.. Mi

---------------------------------------------------

January 31, 1978TARTANpage 13
Snatch the pebble 
from my hand 
and Ill break your fingers
99
Release the inner tensions you've bottled up for so long. Remember that the pen can be mightier than the fist. FOLIO 
needs writers and artists to help keep written history alive. Drop off your fiction/poetry/artwork - anything, any time - at 
the TARTAN box at the Skibo desk.
Be a writer, not a fighter.
FOLIO

---------------------------------------------------

page 14TARTANJanuary 31,1978
THE CREATION 
OF THE UNIVERSE
by Neil Bloomberg
"Hey God, why don't you get ott your ass and 
do something?"
"Nag, nag, nag, that's all you do around here, 
Martha. The only two entities in existance and I 
got to be stuck with you."
"I cook for you, I clean those silly clouds for 
you, and what do you donothing! Why don't 
you get a hobby or something?"
Upset as a result of his wife's constant nagging, 
God realizes he cannot spend the rest of eternity 
doing nothing. Realizing his wife may indeed be 
right, God decides that a hobby is the only way 
he can keep from losing his marbles.
"Let's see here, hobbies... Philosophy, nah, too 
boring... Let's see... Newtonian mathematics, 
sounds interesting... Oh. I forgot my calculator is 
in for service... I know, of course I do! They 
don't call me God for nothing. I'll build some
thing, something interesting. But what?"
Hours pass, and then days as God searches and 
searches for something to build, something inter
esting, something different, something to keep 
his wife off his back.
"I've got it, by me, I've got it. I'll create a uni
verse, a universe of planets and stars and I'll popu
late the planets with peopleMen and Women 
and even a gerbil or two. And I shall watch over 
them and care for them..."
Excited that he has found a hobby, God rushes 
over to his chemistry set and starts to work im
mediately.
"We add a little of this, we add a little of that, 
we add a pinch of this and a pinch of that. Stir 
well, add a little whipped cream, low-cal of 
course, a cherry, and... glug... glug... ahh, that was 
good. Now I'll start on this here universe."
God stands, firmly clutching his staff in his 
hands. Slowly he raises his staff, gazing deeply 
into it. A thunder-like rumbling rips through the 
cosmos as the planets begin to appear one by one.
Again God raises his staff and says:
"F=MA, E=IR, E=MC2  not now, Martha. I'm 
busy."
And stars appear and there is light.
For the third time God raises his staff, and 
from the cosmic sands of time whirling and twirl
ing about, on a little green planet called Earth 
there forms a human beingMan. As the sleep 
which has lasted since the beginning of time it
self now leaves the Man, he awakens to God's 
call.
"Adam, Adam. Awaken, my son."
Adam slowly sits up, softly rubbing his eyes. 
He speaks.
"Hey, man, where am I? What's happening? 
I'm hungry, and where's this Eve chick that's 
supposed to be in this scene?... What's going on 
here?... I'm hungry..."
Softly to himself, God speaks.
"All I wanted was a nice quiet little universe I 
could play around with..."
1&K
O
CD
Cj
-J
by Tony Ciotoli
The cool blue mist rolls up the shore 
As the dying moon falls from the sky 
And the sounds of motors are heard no more 
For mankind has begun to die.
The mighty cities he once had 
Are ashes and rubble upon the land.
The hate and greed that caused the war,
And ruined all that was ever planned,
Has brought an end to all we held dear.
But it matters not for man is no more.
The bitter cold of a once live earth 
Chills what life may linger still.
But soon no life will remain
For this has proved to be man's will.
But where was it within our right 
To destroy the work of countless time 
With five minutes of unholy light?
The earth once blue is gray^and cold,
Hanging dead in space like a man on the gallows, 
Killed while young with no chance to grow old.
A Poem of Old
by Neil Bloomberg
In days of old,
When elves had gold 
And men were greedy,
The men got bold, 
Conned them out 
of their gold 
And said,
Tts for the 
needy.

---------------------------------------------------

January 31, 1978TART ANpage 15
I
THE HISTORY OF MANKIND- TAKE ONE
Iby Mark Aksoy
I clutched the screenplay in my hand and 
cursed the treacherous stairway. What with all 
these damned vapors billowing everywhere, it was 
well nigh impossible to mind one's step. At one 
point, a marble pillar or two could be seen where 
the cloudstuff was exceptionally thin, no doubt 
due to one of the hidden cloud generators having 
| run out of dry ice.
???
Til have to remind him of that..." my 
thoughts accompanied th sound of my steady 
but tired footfalls. Finally, I reached the top. The 
vapors were replaced by an amber light which suf
fused all objects, including the door on the left 
&side of the hallway bearing the block letters: 
TIME-LINE PRODUCTIONS, INC.
The producer ran a hand through his matted 
white beard and peered down at my latest literary 
effort. There was silence everywhere and the light 
from the window seemed almost artificial. He 
thumbed a few pages and peered some more. 
Then he was finished. He stared ahead at nothing 
^particular and slowly reacted.
"The History of Mankind... hmmm... a catchy 
title... lots of action... and the main characters 
hold one's interest... but in order to sell, parts of 
the story will just have to be changed."
I wasn't too surprised by his reaction... at least 
he was interested. But my mind reached back 
down across the void and into the conventional 
 universe of time and space, the setting for my 
^story. I saw the lovely blue planet Earth .and its 
inhabitants as I had visualized them, living for 
centuries in happiness and contentment. And 
' now I feared for the innocence of their history.
The producer whipped out a pen that looked 
more like a magic wand.
."Now let's see... here you have the Pyramids of 
Greece... I'm afraid that will never do! Now Pyralynids of Egypt, that has more of a ring to it and 
there is something romantic about great stone 
monuments rising up in the desert." He began 
crossing out paragraphs and scratching in cor
rections of his own. "And then the whole busi
ness will have to be built by slaves... tens of 
thousands of slaves... we can really play up the 
suffering, intolerance, and misery."
"Uh, I guess I was never much good at drama
tic expression," I replied.
"Now these Romans250 pages farther on 
you have them ruling the entire Mediterranean as 
a republic... that's just too dull for 500 years of 
history! No, let's have this Julius Caesar character 
and all his successors rule as emperors... yes, that 
would be a great vehicle for expressing brutality, 
powermongering, treachery and other colorful 
Oh uman vices."
What was happening to my creation? I thought.
"... And now, the In-Between Ages as you call 
thembetter replace that with the Dark Ages, 
which gives us a perfect opportunity to bring up 
ignorance and religious persecution... good grief, 
are minor influenza epidemics the best you can 
do for disease? Instead, let's have the plague 
really take hold and push Western Civilization
V
into a corner for about a century or so. That'll 
create an element of suspense."
Screaming souls, dying bodies, desolation. I 
saw in my mind an awesome transformation of 
events in the human story as I had written it.
"Hmmm... Renaissance, Enlightenment, Indus
trial Revolution... peaceful progress, prosperity... 
well, we've just got to insert a few wars here and 
there or our viewers will really lose interest... I'll 
see what we can do."
The producer quickly flipped over the remain
ing pages to the closing paragraphs and tapped the 
end of his pen against the desk top. The pen 
seemed to glow with unimaginable power.
"Finally, we can introduce atomic energy in 
the form of a bomb, say in some sort of a world 
war. Then for the ending, we can simply repeat 
the whole thing on a much larger scale and blow 
up the entire Earth..." He sat up eagerly. "Why, 
that way we could shorten your script by at least 
35 pages and give ourselves more room for com
mercials!"
I felt my dear planet erupting in a ball of fire 
and my palms began to sweat. With great diffi
culty, I swallowed my pride and my anguish and 
accepted the revisions.
I returned to the temporal universe and waited 
for my revised history to unfold on the planet 
Earth. Like the rest of the viewing audience, I 
of course was one of a race of cosmic beings who
regarded matter and energy as playthings of the 
imagination. Suspended in space, I was willing to 
wait tor centuries, but was not prepared for what 
actually occurred. Something unfolded on Earth 
all right, but not my story! The dominant life 
form evolved not from the apes at all, but from 
some sort of beaver. Soon, there were beaver crea
tures walking everywhere on their hind legsfell
ing trees, building dams, and doing all manner of 
incomprehensible things. I immediately got in 
touch with the producer.
"Sorry," he replied, "but we decided to reject 
your entire History of Mankind show at the last 
minute and replace it with Leave It to the Beav
ers. We just didn't think History of Mankind 
would get decent viewer ratings."
"Well, I guess I'll just have to try elsewhere!" 
I shot back indignantly, and took off for another 
universe.
??
You can probably deduce that I was ultimately 
successful in this universe. The producer here was 
very understanding. He also made revisions, but 
unlike the first guy, he ran the story. As I watch 
your planet, the time is 1978 and the audience 
response so far is encouraging. I just hope all of 
you down there can remember yOMi Jlnes!

---------------------------------------------------

NnJaRJdi bUAHD IN CO-OPERATION 
PRESENTSSERVICE
WITH SPECIAL GUEST

---------------------------------------------------

ENTERTAINMENT
AB will present Steve Goodman
by David Doremus
David Allen Coe once said that You 
.^Jever Call Me by My Name was the perfect 
country and western song. He recorded it 
and it was a hit. Steve Goodman wrote it. 
Arlo Guthrie had a big hit in 1972, called 
City of New Orleans, again Steve Goodman 
wrote it. Despite the obvious commercial 
potential of his songs Goodman has never 
had a hit record. Why? He sings and plays 
guitar as well as either Coe or Guthrie and 
pyrites better and more prolifically than both 
of them.
Perhaps his style is too basic for mass 
consumption, what people like to hear 
on the radio these days is usually over pro
duced, reeling of string overdubs, mawk
ishly sentimental and basically meaningless. 
In contrast, Goodman has stuck very close 
to his blues and folk roots, writes songs 
that are of consistently high quality and 
performs them simply and unsentimentally, 
often accompanied only by a guitar.
Steve Goodman was born in Chicago in 
1948. He grew up surrounded by urban 
blues, the folk singing of Woody Guthrie 
and Josh White and the country style of 
Hank Williams. He absorbed these varied 
influences and incorporated them into his 
own distinctive singing and songwriting 
*tyle. In 1971, after years of doing the 
folk club circuit, he was discovered by 
Kris Kristofferson (much the same way as 
John Prine) and was soon recording.
Goodman has played and recorded with 
Prine, Jimmy Buffett and Dylan. His songs 
have been covered by Coe, Guthrie, Joan 
Baez, John Denver, and Johnny Cash. In 
spite of, or perhaps because of the popular
success other performers have had with his 
songs, Goodman has remained untainted 
by commerciality. Like Randy Newman 
and John Prine, he writes and records his 
own songs in his own way, indifferent to 
the wishes of the mass audience. His songs 
range from the social commentary of 
Daleys Gone, to the sarcasm of You Never 
Call Me by My Name to the unsentimental 
(at least in the original version), nostalgia 
of City of New Orleans. His writing is 
marked by a witty perception of the peo
ple and world around him, he has a good 
eye for details and remains sympathetic to 
his characters without becoming either 
maudlin or blindly optimistic.
Goodman began performing in folk 
clubs in Chicago and his live perfor
mances still retain the freshness and intim
acy of a club show. He addresses and works 
with his audience directly, establishing an 
audience-performer rapport that is again 
like Newman and Prine and is too rarely 
seen in concerts today. His shows are
enjoyable, invigorating and usually mem 
orable.
Steve Goodman will be performing 
with Kenny Rankin in the Carnegie Music 
Hall on February 11 at 8:00 PM. The con 
cert will be sponsored by A.B.
This is part of one of a two part article about Steve Goodman and Kenny Rankin.
Becoming perfect
A book review 
Book: Your Erroneous Zones 
Author: Dr. Wayne W. Dyer 
Publisher: Avon
by Joan Livitski
The American public must fear it har
bors an outrageous number of undesirable 
characteristics, considering the popularity 
of Dr. Dyers book, Your Erroneous Zones.
The assumptions made, topics discussed 
and advice given are basically the same as 
those found in any pop-psych, self-aware
ness book. Dr. Dyers strength comes in 
how he organizes and clarifies.
Each chapter takes an issue through a 
series of general sub-divisions that states 
and defies each erroneous zone, gives arguements as to why it is perceived as a pro
blem. shows why and when it is used and 
gives suggestions for working towards 
elimination of the problem. Dr. Dyer then 
proceeds to give a quick wrap up conclusion 
for each hypothesis.
The good intentions are probably there, 
^as are his powers of observation, but 1 beg 
to differ that theres more to a self-satisfied 
life than following the procedure described 
in Your Erroneous Zones. An underlying 
attitude of it worked for me, itll work 
for you, shrouds the verbage until I sense 
the conception of a new cult. Whether its 
competitive or sisterly to the already exist
ing TM, EST, et al. is not yet evident, 
v While showing how and why people
hang onto their erroneous behaviors and 
attitudes, he is careful to cover his blind 
side. Dr. Dyer carefully interjects protection 
devices so as to appear non-directive. On 
the surface we are given an idea supported 
by facts followed by suggested alternatives. 
The author makes the reader feel as though 
he is in complete control. Not only are you 
permitted to disagree with Dyers theories 
and retain your present behavior, but he 
openly gives you pat answer rationals to 
ease your conscience.
Instead, one is left to see that the rea
sons for avoiding change havent much sub
stance and, in some cases, are even ridicu
lous. The reader has a choice, but rather 
than being between changing and staying 
contently where one is, the decision comes 
between choosing to jump on the band
wagon or remain a stubborn fool.
Its a shame that Dr. Dyers pompous 
attitude overshadows the sentiment behind 
some of the issues. The ideas expressed are 
ones we all know deep in our subconscious, 
but being able to see and contemplate 
themreinforces them, makes them more 
acceptable. The chapter First Love deals 
with having a sense of self-worth and sup
ports the idea of liking and doing things 
for oneself. It works hand in hand with the 
chapter on eliminating guilt and excess 
worry.
The chapters most beneficial to college 
students would be Exploring the Un
known and Putting an End to Procrastin
ation-Now.
Theres a lot of worthwhile reading 
found in Your Erroneous Zones, if you can 
wade through Dr. Dyer professing how if 
youll only listen, you too can be perfect... 
just like him.
Three designers
by Andrea Smith
Diversity is the word which bf'st des
cribes the show opening at the Gallery 
tonight. For the show features the work 
of Mark Oldacli, Joe Sutliff, and Ken 
Krafcheck, three designers who not only 
represent three different design concentra
tions, but also display a great deal of 
variety within their individual work. It is 
this diversity which makes this show so 
interesting.
Mark is a graphic designer, Joe is an 
industrial designer, and Ken is an illustra
tor. However, the variety in their show is 
due not so much to these differing concen
trations as to a shared philosophy among 
the three in which diversity, flexibility, 
and change are seen as necessary elements 
for successful design.
As Joe Sutliff puts it, Art is and it 
must change. In keeping with his theory, 
Joe has chosen to display work which is 
not just his most recent, or of one focus. 
Instead he has chosen work which displays 
his flexibility and wide range of interests. 
His work in the show is many-fold, ranging 
.from hand-carved pipes to photographs 
to cartooned greeting cards-hardly the 
type of work one typically expects of an 
industrial designer.
So too, Ken Krafchecks work is not 
what one would typically expect of an
illustrator. While much of his work in the 
show is comprised of paintings, drawings, 
and pastels, many of them portraits, as one 
might expect, Ken has also included some 
nice graphic (poster) work and photogra
phy. One of Kens objectives in the show 
was to show what other things illustrators 
are capable of as well, and he has suc
ceeded quite well in doing so.
While Mark, unlike the other two, has 
chosen to display work dealing primarily 
with his area of concentration-graphic 
design-the diversity is not lacking. For 
Marks work is not all pure graphics. He 
describes some of what he does as graphic 
illustration-graphies combined with il
lustration. Many of Marks large posters 
apdy display this concept. Also included 
in the show are some smaller publications, 
many of which constitute free lance 
work done outside the department.
It is obvious that these three designers 
though they represent three distinct design 
concentrations, have not been limited by 
or to their chosen areas of focus. They 
have explored, experimented in and com 
bined so as to create what can only be 
called, by any definition, successful desigr 
work.
Andrea Smith is a member of the Eorbes 
Street Gallery.

---------------------------------------------------

page 18TARTANJanuary 31, 1978
PPT prepares for "Slow Dance"
Pittsburgh Public Theaters first venture 
into rotating repertory will feature four 
actors in six striking dramatic roles. Be
ginning February 1 and playing through 
March 5 the Public will present Slow Dance 
on the Killing Ground by William Hanley 
performed in repertory with Medal of 
Honor Rag by Tom Cole at the Northsides 
Allegheny Theater.
Two of the actors will play demanding 
featured roles in both plays, which will 
alternate performances during the 5XA week 
production period. Robert Nichols will 
portray the German storekeeper Glas in 
Slow Dance, and the probing psychiatrist 
in Medal. Damien Leake plays Randall, 
the uptight youth with a secret who enters 
Glas Brooklyn store on the run in Slow 
Dance and in Medal he portrays Dale 
Jackson, a young Vietnam veteran trying 
to cope with the emotional scars of the war.
Mr. Nichols has been acting profession
ally for almost 30 years. He has appeared 
regularly in feature roles in many television 
series and has been seen frequently on the 
Los Angeles stage.
Damien Leake received critical acclaim 
for his spellbinding protrayal of Dale
Jackson in the Actors Theatre of Louisville 
production of Medal of Honor Rag in the 
fall of 1976, and he played the taut drama
tic role of Carlyle in both the Washington, 
DC Arena Stage and Toronto companies of 
David Rabes Streamers. Mr. Leake per
formed Hud in the touring company of 
Hair and appeared as the Grandson of So
journer Truth in the CBS American Parade 
series.
Playing the role of the desperate but 
knowing Rosie in Slow Dance on the 
Killing Ground is Jane Galloway who, in 
December, ended a two-year engagement in 
the hit New York production of Vanities.
Pittsburgh Public Theater will present 
Slow Dance on the Killing Ground bv 
William Hanley performed in repertory 
with Medal of Honor Rag by Tom Cole 
and directed by Terry Schreiber, at the. 
Allegheny Theater on the Northside, from 
February 1 through March 5. Preview per
formances are scheduled from January 27 
through January 31. Ticket information 
is available by calling 323-1900.
This article was prepared with the assis
tance of the Pittsburgh Public Theatre.
Neustein's paintings 
on display at CMU
Recent paintings by Israeli artist Joshui 
Neustein will be on display February 1 
through February 17 at Carnegie-Mellon 
University.
The exhibit of abstract acrylic paintings 
on paper, which the artist describes as 
paperworks in various colors of black, 
will be held in the universitys Velai 
Gallery, located in the lobby of CMUs 
Graduate School of Industrial Administra
tion. Describing Neusteins work in Arts 
magazine, critic Noel Frackman wrote, 
Neustein creates a language, a grammar of 
tearing, cutting and folding, and within 
that syntax, each defines paper in a different 
way and creates a different relationship.
The one-man show is part of the observ
ance of Israeli Week on Pittsburgh area 
campuses, jointly sponsored by Bnai 
Brith-Hillel Foundation, the American 
Zionist Foundation, the Israel Aliyah Cen
ter, the Jewish Community Center and 
El Al.
A native of Danzig, Neustein studied at 
Pratt Institute and City College of New 
York before moving to Israel in 1964. Neu
steins previous work includes Boots 
(1969), an environment created at the 
Jerusalem Artists House from 17,000 pairs 
of boots from the Turkish, British, Jordan
ian and Israeli armies, and the Jerusalem 
River Project (1970), the sounds of a 
fantasy river flowing through a dry desert 
valley. Among his other major projects are 
Fourteen tires to Cross (1971), an en
vironment of automobile tires constructed 
to protest the building of a highway in 
Israels Valley of the Cross; Hay Bales and 
Hay Bindings (1971), shown at the Earth, 
Air, Fire and Water exhibit at the Boston 
Museum of Fine Arts, and The Sound of 
Pine Cones Opening in the Sun (1973), a 
work constructed from ecological materials 
gathered before the 1973 Middle East War. 
Neusteins work is in the permanent collec
tions of the Museum of Modem Art in New 
York, Amsterdams Staedelijk Museum, the 
Twentieth Century Museum of Art in Ber
lin, and numerous museums in Israel.
CMUs Velar Gallery is open Monday 
through Friday from 9 AM to 5 PM. The 
Neustein exhibit is free and open to the 
public.
Damien Leake 8t Jane Galloway in "Slow Dance on the Killing Ground'
Theatre Express at 
Mt Lebanon
Theatre Express, the national touring 
repertory company which recently receiv
ed rave reviews for three new plays which 
opened here at Chatham College, will add 
another play to their repertoire for 10 
public performances February 1-25 at Mt. 
Lebanon High School.
Out of Our Fathers  House, the story 
of six American women by Eve Merriam. 
author of the hit off-Broadway show The 
Club, will open the run on February 1st 
and will be performed again February 17th 
and 25th. Out of Our Fathers House is 
a unique theatrical document, a fascinating 
collage created from the letter, journals 
and autobiographies of six American wo
men. Three actresses present the stories 
of these women in their own words, sim
ple, eloquent and painfully honest, inter
woven with music and song from American 
history. Their individual journeys into selfawareness and self-sufficiency in a maledominated society show a courage, an 
intelligence and a humanity that speaks for 
itself. Out of Our Fathers House is a sen
sitive, compelling look at the personal 
roots of feminism and the problems of 
growing up female in America.
Second in the Theatre Express lineup is 
Tuesday the acclaimed pantomime play 
created by Jewel Walker to be performed 
February 2nd, 4th & 24th. A very funny 
and touching production for all ages, 
Tuesday is not a classical mime piece but 
rather a play without words, a truly unique 
combination of pantomime and conven
tional theatre, a hysterical celebration 
of the American middle class. Tuesday 
has been enjoyed by Pittsburghers who 
have seen the Park Players and the City 
Players and it has also been toured for two 
seasons to over 15 states. Jewel Walker, 
who recently left Carnegie-Mellon Univer
sity to teach at the Univeristy of * 
Wisconsin,is one of the countrys leading 
mimes, and Tuesday is one of his most 
beautiful creations.
Donald Miller of the Pittsburgh Post 
Gazette called The Marquis De Sades 
Justine by Leon Katz, an exceedingly 
rare dramatic experience. Two perform
ances only are scheduled for February 3rd 
and 16th at Mt. Lebanon High. This scath
ing drama by Leon Katz, professor, play
wright, and director of the 99cent Floating 
Theatre, is a beautiful ensemble piece 
utilizing elements of dance, mime, and 
conventional theatre. Director, Jed Harris, 
has produced a powerful work which 
examines the morals and attitudes sur
rounding relationships of the late 18th 
century France. This production is for 
mature audiences and parental dis
cretion is advised.
Theatre Express Artistic Director, 
William Turner, will treat Mt. Lebanon 
audiences to his hilarious new musical 
The Unlit Corridor which has been tagged 
a vampire vaudeville. To be preformed 
February 18th and 23rd, The Unlit 
Corridor is an outrageous story draped 
around a clutch of rather unconventional 
vampires in a castle near Chicago. Aud
iences are in for a delightful surprise 
with this theatre of the ridiculous version
of The Unlit Corridor.Theatre Express originated with a group
of alumni from Carnegie-Mellon Univeristy 
in 1975. Since that time they have per
formed 9 full productions in repertory and 
on tour for over 50,000 people in 15 
states. They are supported by the Penn
sylvania Council on the Arts, the Howard 
Heinz Endowment, U.S. Steel, Jones & 
Laughlin Steel, and many many other cor
porations and foundations in and around 
Pittsburgh. The work includes alternative 
theatre representing a wide range of styles 
centering around new and seldom produc
ed plays.
Theatre Express will perfom for 10 per
formances only February 1,2,3,4,16,17,18, 
23,24A 25 at Mt. Lebanon High School. 
For information please call 322-4671.
George Bensons brand new two record live set Weekend in L.A." will be 
reviewed in next week's Entertainment section. Watch for it.

---------------------------------------------------

EVENTS
MUSIC
i ne /s year old pianist Claudio Arrau will 
perform on Wednesday, Feb. 1 at 8:00 pm 
in the Jewish Community Center, 315 S. 
Bellefield Ave. His program will include the 
D Major Sonata by Beethoven, Liszts 
Sonata in B Minor and Brahms F Minor 
Sonata.
For tickets to this historical and memo
rable concert, call the Y Music Society at 
521-8010.
Under the auspices of the City of Pitts
burgh, a Pittsburgh Symphony concert in 
-ieinz Hall will be presented free of admis;ion to city residents at 8 PM on Wednes
day, February 8. Donald Johanos, Asso;iate Conductor of the Symphony, will 
conduct.
This and other free city concerts are 
sponsored throughout the year by means 
of a grant from the City's Performing Arts 
Program. Each year, the program series 
consists of four concerts, the last of which 
is presented in early summer in Schenley 
Park.
Tickets to the February 8 concert can 
be obtained by use of mail order coupons 
which will be appearing in the Pittsburgh 
Press and Post-Gazette.
Andre frevin will conduct Pittsburgh Sym
phony Orchestra performances of Sir Will
iam Waltons biblical cantata, Belshazzar's 
Feast, and a Mozart Concerto for Two 
Pianos and Orchestra in Heinz Hall con
certs on Friday, February 10 at 8:30 PM, 
Saturday, February 11 at 8 PM and Sunday 
afternoon, February 12 at 2:30 PM. This 
will be the Symphonys first performance 
in 10 years of Waltons choral drama and 
the concerts serve to mark the 75th anni
versary of the composers birth.
Attendance at Pittsburgh Symphony
concerts is by season subscription only. 
However, some tickets are occasionally 
turned back to the Heinz Hall box office 
for resale. Information may be obtained 
by phoning 281:5000.
THEATRE
Pittsburgh Public Theater will present Slow 
Dance on the Killing Ground by William 
Hanley performed in repertory with Medal 
of Honor Rag by Tom Cole, and directed 
by Terry Schreiber, at the Allegheny 
Theater on the Northside from February 1 
through March 5. Ticket information is 
available by calling 323-1900.
Pittsburgh Laboratory Theatre will present 
Mother Courage by Bertolt Brecht, 
translated and directed by Bill Royston, 
Fridays through Sundays, J anuary 20 to 
February 26, at 8:30 PM. Seating is lim
ited and reservations should be made well 
in advance bv callina 621-2876.
Community College of Allegheny County,. 
South Campus Performing Arts Depart
ment will present That Championship 
Season on Feb. 2,3, and 4, 1978, with 
curtain at 8:00 PM. Tickets go on Sale 
January 23rd at $3.50 for general ad
mission and $2.00 for students and faculty.
Camelot Productions will open the Lerner 
and Loewe musical Camelot on Friday, 
January 20 at the Plaza Theatre, Bloom
field.
Performances will be held at 8:30 PM 
Fridays and Saturdays and 7:30 PM Sun
days, January 20 through February 12 at 
the Plaza Theatre, 4765 Liberty Avenue 
(next to West Penn Hospital). Ticket in
formation and reservations may be ob
tained by calling Camelot Productions at 
683-7770.
NATL DENTAL BOARDS  NURSING BOARDS
Flexible Programs & Hours
There IS a difference!!!
For Information Please Call:
661-2772 
ESSEX HOUSE 
NEGLEY & CENTER AVE.
-H.N
EDUCATIONAL CENTER
TEST PREPARATION 
SPECIALISTS SINCE 193$
 Iron City
 Schlitz
 Bud
 Koehler
 Strohs
 Genesee
 Rolling Rock
 Hop 'n Gator
 Schlitz Malt
 Ballantine Ale
 Rheingold
 Miller Light
 Michelob
 Pabst
 Miller
 Colt 45
 Genesee Cream Ale
 Busch
 Duke
 Schmidts
 Champale
featuring 22 Varieties of Steak Subs 
SERVING BEER SUNDAY 1 PM-2 PM
Quarts  Mugs  Pitchers
One different 16-oz. 6 pk. featured each week
SCHLITZ SCHMIDTS PABST
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO
ADVERTISE OUR LOW BEER PRICES
Qnnn.olu, FRESH CUT FRENCH FRIESSpecalty Items. p|2_,A jERVgD TIL 3 AM
Hot Dogs Choice of 12 Different Condiments 
35 Varieties of Sandwiches
621-7388
HOT DOS SIMPS, INC.
3901 FORBES AVE. (OAKLAND) 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213
CINEMA
AB will be presenting Magician on Thurs
day, Februrary 2 at 6, 8 and 10 pm. The 
film, starring Max von Sydow, will be 
shown in Doherty Hall. Admission is 
.75 with an ID.
AB will be presenting Robert Altmans 
Three Women. It stars Shelly Duvall, Sissy 
Spacek and Janice Rule. It will be shown 
on Friday, February 3 at 6:30, 9 and 
11:10 pm. Admission is one dollar with an 
ID.
SDC will be presenting Bugsy Malone at 6, 
8:30 and 11 on Saturday, February 5 in 
Doherty Hall. Admission is free.
L.arnegie institute presents a series of 
nature films every Saturday at 1:00 pm in 
the Carnegie Lecture Hall. For more 
information call 6223283.
February 10. Hours are Monday through 
Friday, 11:00 to 4:00 PM.
MISC.
PREPARE FOR:MCATDATLSATGNIATGREOCATVATSAT
NMB I. II. Ill ECFMG FLEK VQE
 Outside N Y. State Only CALL TOLL FREE: 800 223 1782
E Centers in Maior US Cities Toronto, Puerto Rico and Lugano, Switzerland ~
nimaiiiimiimamiimimnimiiiiiiiiaiiiiimiiiiaimimiiiiammmmaiiiiiiiimiaiiiimiimcimiiimmaimi
WRCT
WRCT has extended their programming 
hours from 3 PM to 3 AM. They have also 
begun to broadcast a talk show, Mr. Pea
body, which is aired on Tuesdays from 
11 PM until 12 PM. Tune in.
ART
Israeli artist Joshua Neustein will have his paintings on display February 1
through 17 at Carnegie-Mellon University.
The Velar Gallery is located in the
lobby of CMUs Graduate School of
Industrial Administration. The gallery is
open Monday through Friday from 9 AM
to 5 PM. The Neustein exhibit is free and
open to the public.
The Hewlett Gallery in the College ot 
Fine Arts Building will display the works 
of Howard Worner. Mr. Worner is a faculty 
member of the design department.
The show will run from January 23 to
The second half of the International 
Poetry Forum opens with a reading by 
Elizabeth Bishop. The event will be 
held in the Carnegie Lecture Hall, Feb
ruary 1 at 8:00 PM. Tickets are $3, $2 
to students and senior citizens. They 
may be purchased at Kaufmanns Sears, 
the Pitt Student Union and the Forum 
office in Carnegie Library.
The Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre will present 
Tchaikovskys Swan Lake, February 2-5 
at Heinz Hall.
AB Coffeehouse will present Gene Corbin 
on Friday, February 3 in Skibo Cafe at 
9:30.
The Lion Walk will be presenting an even
ing of magic and mine on Saturday, 
February 5 at 8:30 pm. The Lion Walk is 
located at 420 North Craig St. Admission 
is $2.00.
Janet Gillespie and Present Company will 
be featured with the Lucy Reynold's Dance 
Company on Friday, February 17th at 
8:00 PM in Trees Hall, University of Pitts
burgh, Alliquippa and Darraugh Streets. 
The program is the sixth in a monthly 
series of studio concerts presented by the 
Pitt Dance Ensemble. For further informa
tion, contact Margaret Skrinar, Physical 
Education Department, 624-4396.
Carolyn Brown, nationally acclaimed dan 
cer, teacher, and choreographer will be in 
residence for the month of February with 
the Pittsburgh Dance Alloy at the Univer
sity of Pittsburgh. She will offer classes 
open to modern dancers on Monday and 
Wednesday evenings, 5 to 6:30 PM. Classes 
are $3.50 each and will be held in the 
Dance Studio, Trees Hall, Aliquippa and 
Darraugh Streets. For further information 
contact Margaret Skrinar, Physical Edu
cation Department at 624-4396.tell it to the world!
Let everyone know exactly what you think of your boyfriend 
(or girlfriend, mother, father, aunt, uncle, dog, guppy, or 
favorite shoe) in
LOVELINE, CMU...
Mf
in the Feb. 14 issue of the TARTAN.
$1.00 for 15 words. Submit message and money/check to Skibo Infor
mation Desk on or before February 8.
If you:
(a) order your cut flower arrangement or roses before 
February 9th;
(b) pay for your order then, and
(c) pick them up my store on February 13th or 14th................
..........then...........
you save at least 25% off the regular price.
INCREDIBLE SPECIAL: LONG STEM ROSES for 15.15 a dozen
See my complete selection of cash and carry specials.
BRUCE'S
distinctive flowers & gifts 
centre at neville/oakland 
monday thru Saturday 10 to 5
687-4200 687-4200 {Jisri
31485323233153234853322348234832535348304823234830482348483123232323315348484832532348

---------------------------------------------------

CMU ACTIVITIES BOARD 
PRESENTSKENNY RANKIN
andSTEVE GOODMAN
IN CONCERT
SATURDAY, FEB. 11,1978 
CARNEGIE MUSIC HALL
8:00 p.m.
RESERVE SEATING
TICKETS ARE $3.00 w/I.D. and
$5.00 w/o I.D.
TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE AT SKIBO INFORMATION DESK
FUNDED BY ACTIVITIES FEE

---------------------------------------------------

1FEATURES
(7
HELPING OUT =Listen, don't talk
by Sue Meyer
At some point in your life you will 
be called upon to assist a friend who is 
experiencing some sort of emotional dif
ficulty. Most of us encounter this situation 
everyday. These problems range from dis
interest in ones studies to feelings of 
suicide. Most of us are sincerely interested 
in helping our friends, but unfortunately 
we dont always know what to say or do.
Techniques to avoid
Many people fall into the rut of asking 
questions or telling a person what they 
did in a similar situation. The first strategy 
a barrage of questions, can intimidate a 
person or prevent him from speaking 
freely. The if-I-were-you method as
sumes that you and he experience things in 
exactly the same way and thus his prob
lems can be solved in the same manner as 
yours.
You and your friend are two separate 
individuals. What may be an appropriate 
solution for you may be a source of un
easiness for him. For example, it may be 
very easy for you to tell a professor why 
you think you deserve a higher grade, but 
your friend may find it difficult to talk to 
professors. This method can also make 
your friend feel inferior, because you were 
able to come up with a simple and quick 
solution while he may have been grappling 
with it for days.
Finally, when you tell a person what to 
do, you are not allowing him to take re
sponsibility for his own problems. This 
can create a dependency relationship 
where the person may begin to expect 
you to solve all his problems.
Reassurance method fails
If all else fails, one might attempt to 
reassure a friend by telling him that every
one feels that way sometimes, or yeah,
I know just how you feel, or perhaps 
dont worry, verything will be alright 
or worse yet, thats not so bad, just 
listen to this. . . Far from helping a 
person, these replies can sometimes make 
him feel worse or at best he may be no bet
ter off than if he had not talked to you.
By informing a person that everyone 
feels that way or by assuring him that you 
understand perfectly, you are lumping 
the person, the problem, or the situation 
into a category. His problem, no matter 
how common it may seem to you, is 
a unique and difficult situation for your 
friend.
A dont worry reply does nothing to 
alleviate the problem. The problem will
still be on his mind only now he may feel 
foolish for allowing this matter to occupy 
his thoughts. An attitude which says ifyou think-youve-got-problems-just-listento-this, is a put-down because it conveys 
to your friend the idea that he and/or his 
problem is trivial.
Effective techniques detailed
While these all-too-common strategies 
are known to be ineffective, there are some 
simple guidelines one should keep in mind 
when helping a person solve him problems. 
First, examine your own attitude. In order 
to be effective, you must provide your 
friend with the proper atmosphere. You 
must respect the person. Dont judge him 
or anything he says. To be successful, you 
must let him know that you value him as 
a person and that you sincerely believe he 
is capable of solving his own problems.
Second, become aware of non-verbal 
cues. Listen not only to what is said, but 
how it is spoken. Look at your friends 
posture and body movements; take note of 
his pitch and rate of speech. If his speech 
is very rapid and his eyes avoid yours, you 
might want to first key in on why he is 
apprehensive about discussing this problem 
before examining it.
Third, never assume anything. If your 
friend uses words or phrases which might 
be ambiguous, ask him to clarify them 
until you are sure you understand them 
from his point of view. One way of accom
plishing this is by repeating what you think 
he means.
Fourth, try to help focus the problem 
and the situation without being directive 
to keep the discussion on your friends 
problem and relevant issues. Be careful not 
to ask questions which do nothing to help 
your friend, but merely satisfy your own 
curiosity. Keep the center of attention on 
your friend. Try to help your friend exam
ine his own feelings, problems, and alter
native solutions. Encourage him to list his 
own solutions. If you try to do this, his 
best solution may be overlooked.
Finally, the most important thing to 
remember is that your friend is the only 
one who can solve his own problems. You 
can help him by reflecting what he says 
and feels, and by making his look at every
thing closely, but ultimately the solution 
ies within the person with the problem.
These techniques are the elements of a 
counseling style developed by psycholo
gist Carl Rogers, and hence called Rogerian 
counseling.
Sue Meyer is a Peer Help counselor.
CONSUMER GUIDE -Blowdryers create danger
by Belinda Quan
Hand held blow dryers can be danger
ous. The U.S. Consumer Products Safety 
Commission studied 99 accidents related to 
hair care appliances and found that some 
dryers discharged sparks, flames, or molten 
plastic.
In one case, reported in the January 15, 
1978 issue of the New York Times, a 
piece of plastic struck a womans eye as her 
husband was drying her hair.
The Study also found that cords spark
ed, smoked, or caused explosions or 
shocks. There were also several cases of 
electrocution caused by dryers coming in 
contact with water while being used in 
the bathroom.
Last year, Underwriters Laboratories 
issued standards for hair dryers. 90% of the 
hairdryers comply with the standards but
2 million already manufactured hairdryers 
do not. U.L. standards require dryers to 
have a thermostat which shuts them off 
automatically to prevent overheating.
In another study reported in the August 
1977 issue of Consumer Reports, fifteen 
dryers were tested for the equivalent of 
three years use and rated. Consumer 
Reports listed several factors to consider 
when buying a hair dryer.
A dryer should dry hair quickly, be 
comfortable and convenient to use, and 
ilso be fairly quiet. It should be able to dry 
moderately thick, collar-length hair in a 
bout 5 minutes.
Drying time depends on the right com
bination of heat and airflow. Most dryers 
have at least two settings: fast and hot air
flow for drying and slower and cooler air
flow for styling. Some have as many as 4 to 
6 settings which can be confusing, Consum
er Reports contends. The user should be 
able to hold the dryer comfortably and 
switch settings easily. The best place for 
switches are the front or back of the 
handle.
The weight of a dryer also affects how 
comfortable it is to use. Dryers weigh from 
Vi - 1H pounds.
Consumer Reports found that Clairol 
Pro Gun (1200 watt) and Norelco 1200-2 
dried hair the fastest.
Conair Pro 1000 and Clairol Sun of a 
Gun (1200 watt) were the slowest dryers.
Remington Pro Dryer HP 3000 was the 
quietest.
Northern 1881 HD20 was the noisiest.
Gillette Pro Max Compact 901 was the 
lightest and easiest to use.
Two of the models, Conair 06512 and 
Grandinetti 82 were rated unacceptable 
because they sucked hair into the air vent. 
But at the end of the test, all 15 models 
continued to blow hot air.
Recently, Conair developed a compact, 
lightweight hairdryer, which the company 
claims does the same job as the heavier 
hairdryers. However, this has not been 
tested.
Unisex Salon reports that the blowdryer 
is just right for some hairstyles. Since the 
blowdryer was developed, hairstyling has 
drastically changed.
Some salons even teach customers how 
to use the blowdryer, so the customer can 
have the same just cut look every time 
she washes her hair.
i;; I ;; CQHtfiaXulakiom
HR to the,
GIANk> TB OK
a fwm theJlumiTu Alternation
The Senior Banquet, held January 28, was actually an evening of activity. The Alumni 
office iponsored event included a cocktail hour, a banquet, a dance, and a contest.
Female plays on all-male I.M. team
Paula Kasmerski, a freshman in CIT, plays 
basketball on an otherwise all-male team.
by Paul Henderson
Paula Kasmerski, a freshman hailing from Bethel Park, Pa.
holds the honor of being the only active female player in intramur
al basketball. She plays for the Hawks, a team consisting of old
friends from high school.
Miss Kasmerski got her position by practicing with the team one 
day, just for the exercise. One player didnt show, so the others 
asked Paula if she would become a permanent member of the team 
since she was as good or better than the other guy. She gladly ac
cepted the offer.
Paula really lacks any motive for joining the team, and just 
plays because she enjoys it and does it well. She is not out to prove 
that she can play as well as the guys, and fears that she will be 
labeled a womens libber. She hopes to make it clear that she has
2* no sucn intent.<o35 Kasmerski also fears being labeled a jockette and having pin
ned on her whatever that label connotes. She plays basketball as 
well as the guys, but keeps her femininity in the game. She feels 
that if there is something you do well, you can do it feminely.
Her male teamates respect her abilities and do not resent her 
presence, Paula says. However, the same does not hold for teams 
?hat she plays. She says that other teams feel insulted they have 
to play a team with a girl on it. But Kasmerski says that she gives 
them a surprise with her excellent defensive play and soon has the 
opposing team convinced of her abilities.
However, basketball is a very physical sport, and Paula admits 
that sometimes her male counterparts do get a bit rough. She says 
that in one game she got beat up pretty bad and suffered some 
bruises. Also, she was pinched twice by opposing team players, 
something she got very embarrassed about. She took no physical 
revenge however, and says she would never pinch them back.
Kasmerski feels that a high point of her I. M team experience 
was wnen the womans basketball team talent scouts tried to rernijt her for the team, after the season had begun. Although flat
tered by the offer, Kasmerski declined, because she felt she did not 
have enough time for varsity sports.
Thus Kasmerski adds a refreshing dimension to intramural bas
ketball, participating with her friends, and playing because she does 
it well and enjoys it.________________________________________

---------------------------------------------------

CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE 
1:00 - 5:00 PM Daily
SKIBO 40A
rc page Afe^/anuary^PlWs
Are we slad you're here!
Les Harper is shown here in three of his more 
familiar roles. Leapin' Les as Harper is affec
tionately known, is famous for his rim hovering 
inside rebounding and shooting. Off the court, 
Les is known equally for his reticent yet friendly 
personality. Finally, there is the center jump, 
another function which Les ably performs.
Les, who was All-Conference last year, will 
soon wind up his senior and final year as a 
Basketball Tartan. He'll be gone next year, but 
are we glad he's here now!
Photo essay prepared by Ramanan.
Scholastic standing and college board test results are important factors in deciding who will be awarded an Army ROTC scholarship.But it takes more than brains to win a scholarship that pays full tuition, books and lab fees, and provides a living allowance of up to $1,000 each year the scholarship is in effect. And then to be able to handle the leadership position that's waiting for you when you get out of college.So we look for more going in. VVe look primarily for leadership potential, as demonstrated by your involvement in sports or other extracurricular activities.So if you were a class officer, a varsity letter winner, a club president, or a member of the debating team, or showed your ability to
think on your feet in some other way we re interested.
And, to make sure a good candidate isnt overlooked because his or her participation in school activities was limited due to a part-time job, we award scholarship points for hard work done away from school, too.
Then theres our personal interview. Justto give you the chance to let us know some things about yourself that might lx* missed by a test, an application, or a yearbook.In short, theres a lot that goes into deciding who has Army ROTC scholarship potential. If you think you have what it takes, write for more information about Army ROTC sch< >larships.
CLIP AND MAIL TOI ARMY ROTCCarnegie-Mellon
Pittsburgh, PA
University ^ 
15213
Name__
Address
City___
State__Phone.
^ ? Freshman ? Sophomore ? Junior ? Senior ^

---------------------------------------------------

January 31,1978TARTANpage 23
Karate kicks up attention
Taking control this time is a Pika player, but SAE eventually prevailed.
CMU Club members compete in AFLA meet
Victor Brennan went undefeated to win 
the mens event of the AFLA Open Foil 
Meet held in the Womens Gym Saturday, 
January 28, 1978. There were 30 men and 
26 women competing in this tournament.
At the end of the first round freshman 
Jay Michaels was the leading fencer in the 
mens event. CMU fencers moving up from 
the first round were Peter Bond, John 
Booz, Victor Brennan, Pam Chase, Julie 
Cohen, Crystal Hoffman, Jon McGraw, 
Jay Michaels, Brian Pierson, Mark Segal, 
and Avram Scheiner. CMU Club members 
moving up were Linda Linnon, Vivie 
Fuchs, Alison Reese and Jane Fisk.
At the end of the second round junior 
Peter Bond was the top fencer, drew a 
bye in the third round and went directly to
the finals. The third round consisted of
single elimination bouts. With CMU fencers 
meeting each other, only three were 
to make the finals in the mens event. Re
sults of the finals were First Place -Victor 
Brennan (CMU), Second Place-Ron 
Smeidel (CSC), Third Place-Kevin Haffey 
(CMU Alumnus), Fourth Place-Kevin Craig 
(WVU), Fifth Place-Jay Michaels (CMU), 
and Sixth Place-Peter Bond (CMU). In the 
Womens event Vivie Fuchs (CMU club) 
placed 5 th.
Schools participating in the tourna
ment were California State College, 
Camegie-Mellon University, Indiana 
University, and West Virginia University. 
Clubs represented were CMU, Pittsburgh 
Fencers, Pleasant Hills Fencers, Schenley 
Park Fencers, and Murrysville Musketeers.
\\oW
ooW
r^atC
Qa^ee'*0
tt.I-3^-* ^
with optional trips to LUXOR 
and the Tomb of Tut-Ankhamen!
FOR DETAILS CALL 621-0799
CMU AUTHORISED 
.?01 SOUTH CRAIG STRtET AGENTS 
PITTSBURGH PA. 15213578-2990
by John Jones
Did you ever wonder what causes all 
the racket in the back of Thistle Hall on 
Tuesday and Thursday evenings? If you 
take the time to investigate you will find a 
large group of people dressed in baggy 
white pants standing in straight lines prac
ticing a myriad of kicks and punches. Youll 
probably decide that theyre not very good, 
though, because they always seem to miss 
each otherif only by a few inches.
Out of curiosity, I asked a few of these 
combatants some questions and finally 
ended up in the office of Ray Artz, a doc
toral candidate who teaches in the math 
department here at CMU. Mr. Artz has 
been with the CMU Karate Club (which, in 
case you havent already guessed, is the 
name of the group of people I had been 
watching), since 1967 when he joined as a 
beginner. He has since achieved the status 
of black belt.
Two years before Artz joined, in 1965, 
the CMU Karate Club was formed in the 
fall of the school year by two University of 
Pittsburgh faculty members, Dr. Dan Sulli
van and Dr. Martin Eisman. They were 
both black belts and began training the 
club members in the Japanese fighting 
form of Shotokan Karate.
The Shotokan style of fighting was 
brought to the mainstream of Japanese 
martial arts from Okinowa by Master 
Gichin Funakoshi. The style taught by 
Funakoshi was evolved from the oldest and 
most traditional of the early Japanese 
martial arts. It became very popular in 
Japan and was exported to the United 
States on a significant scale around the be
ginning of World War II.
One of Funakoshis pupils, a man 
named Tsutomu Oshiwa formed the Sho
tokan Karate Association of America, an 
organization of which the CMU Karate 
Club became an official member in 1972. 
This association is recognized world-wide
for its excellence and high standards of 
teaching. In fact, Oshiwa himself spends a 
good portion of his time each year travel
ing around the country visiting various 
branches of his organization, checking on 
the various clubs while personally examin
ing all black belt candidates.
Artz estimates that in most cases it 
takes approximately 1,000 hours of train
ing to earn the title of black belt. The CMU 
Club schedules three training sessions a 
week which last, on the average, an hour 
and a half. Following this type of training >
schedule, a freshman could enter one of 
the beginning classes and have a good 
chance of earning a black belt by his or her 
senior year.
The style of teaching used here is cen
tered around three main objectives. These 
are: 1) to regularly start classes for begin
ners; 2) to facilitate personal and physical 
development; and 3) to concentrate on the 
teaching of effective and practical combat 
techniques.
For those students who are worried 
about taking too much time, consider this: 
many of the members of the Karate Club 
feei that participating on this activity has 
not subtracted from their academic per
formance. On the contrary, many find 
that participation on a well focused activity 
often leaves them feeling relaxed and alert.
The beginners classes are started at the 
beginning of each of CMUs academic sem
esters. Another new class begins in the 
summer, which is followed by still another 
class in the fall. Specific training sessions 
for the CMU Karate Club are run on Tues
day and Thursday evenings at 6:30 PM, 
and on Saturdays at 11:30 AM. Dues for 
the club are about $25 a semester. The 
Spring class of beginners still has openings, 
and if anyone is interested in joining, just 
come to one of the regularly scheduled 
training sessions-Tuesday, Thursday, or 
Saturday.
Two Karate Club members practice the fine art of "missing" each other.
CHESS CORNER 
by Joseph Bartnicki
Black to play and mate in five moves.
ajBui S-S N S 
M3 tfl-a dl
ajBui s  SN S 
NX* fr
m3 dx eaoi e ji 
3Biua-018-^ s
M3 9N-8 10)1 
M3 dXb 'lWidl
3BU1 JX iSOi t JI
3BIU *8H*d NX)I S 
M3 S8 d e->f * 1 
M3 dXe^-)I 
M3 dx rxoi z
M3 88-   I
H3AVSNV

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
Thiel falls; Bethany visits tomorrow
by Bob Firm
Thiels encounter with Carnegie-Mellon 
could best be summarized by the weather 
conditions along Interstate 79 during the 
Tartans trip to Greenville. In the first half 
the Tomcats basket seemed to be lost in 
the thick fog that was present on CMlTs 
ride to Greenville Pa. In the second half. 
CMU baskets rained through the nets much 
like the raindrops fell on the bus on the 
way home from Thiel. Through it all 
All-American George Harvey put on a 
dazzling shooting display in leading CMU 
to an impressive 91-66 victory.
Harvey loosened up in the first half with 
14 points to give the Tartans a comfort
able 38-27 halftime lead. In the second 
half, he really got into gear. During a five 
minute stretch in the final stanza, the 
Senior co-captain matched his first half
output with another 14 tallies and ended 
the evening with 32 total. Coach Dave 
Maloney commented, That was Georges 
best individual performance for the sea
son.
CMU's tough 2-1-2 zone defense again 
gave the their opponents a fit. Thiel was 
forced outside by the ironclad blanket 
thrown at them by the Tartans. Thiel 
couldnt move inside or shoot from the 
outside, and as a result, took 7 minutes and 
22 seconds to score their initial basket.
Meanwhile, the Tartans were playing 
their usual game in racing to an early 11-0 
advantage. Two Harvey jumpers, two 
hoops by Les Harper, and a patented three 
point play on a drive to the hoop by Larry 
Hufnagel had CMU in total command.
Thiel (3-9 and 2-3) made a brief come
back late in the first half to close a 17 
point CMU lead down to nine. Phil
Thompson hit from the key, tall Mike 
Thierman scored twice inside, and Joe 
Scarpitti canned a long jumper to narrow 
the gap. However. Harvey fired in a jumper 
and Joe Belechak got a fast break layup 
in rapid succession to re-establish CMUs. 
dominance of the game.
The second half was also typical Tartan 
basketball. CMU excelled in all phases of 
the game and was never really challenged as 
they ran up leads as large as 31 points.
Maloney was obviously pleased with the 
Tartans' performance. A good indication 
of how well we played was the fact that I 
didnt have to call a time out. I was con
cerned that we hadnt played a game in a 
week and we were playing on the road. 
Thiel has played everyone in the PAC 
tough, but we got the good rebounding 
and strong defense again.
Besides the outstanding 32 point out
put by Harvey, three other Tartans bal
anced the attack. Hufnagel continued his 
string of outstanding games with 13 points. 
Harper added 12. and the freshman Bel
echak hit for 10. Greg Chambers led the 
Tartans board assault by a grappling 13.
Tom Wagner led the Tomcats with 15 
points. He was backed by Thiermans 13 
and Mark Benedettos 10.
CMU was again limited to one game dur
ing the week due to weather conditions. 
The heavy snow in the Cleveland area made 
it possible for Case Western Reserve to 
travel to Pittsburgh to meet the Tartans.
CMU (7-3 and 4-0) faces their biggest 
PAC test to date tomorrow night as they 
face the Bethany Bisons at Skibo Gym at 
8:00 p.m. Bethany, like the Tartans, are 
undefeated in league play. Saturday night, 
Tech travels to Meadville, Pa. for another 
encounter with Allegheny at 8:00 p.m.
Swimmers surprise John Carroll
by John Rossi
On Saturday, January 28, the CarnegieMellon Swimming Team scored a surpris
ingly easy 80-32 victory over John Carroll 
University. The Blue Streaks, obviously in 
poor shape, were only a shadow of the 
squad which finished second behind 
Allegheny in last years PAC Championship 
Meet.
Starting the action. CMU's 400 yd. med
ley relay team of Joe Dickey, Jim Matysek, 
Harry Coleman and Tom Barr swamped 
JCU's entry, winning with a time of 3:57.0. 
Joachim Nettles and Tom Gerlowski placed 
first and third, respectively, in the 1000 yd. 
freestyle, sandwiching a John Carroll 
swimmer who finished second. Jim Maty
sek continued the Tartans blit/ as he 
cruised to an easy victory in the 200 yd. 
freestyle with John Rossi coming up from 
behind to snag second place. The one-two 
finish gave the CMU swimmers a command
ing 21-4 lead. Continuing the assault, Pete 
Dickey and Tom Barr took second and 
third in the 50 yd. freestyle and Joe Dickey 
took the 200 vd. individual medley.
CMUs divers. Bob Frye and Tony Car
rington. took first and second places, res
pectively, in both the required and optional 
diving events.
The outstanding individual performance 
of the day followed the first diving event 
as Harry Coleman raced to a school-record 
time of 2:08.1 in the 200 yd. butterfly 
event. CMUs Doug McPherson also placed 
in the event. An almost equally impressive 
time was recorded by Pete Dickey as he 
peeled through 100 yards of freestyle 
swimming in a very good time of 53.6, 
good enough for a second place behind a 
very fast John Carroll sprinter.
Joe Dickey won his second event as he 
paddled to first place in the 200 yd. back
stroke. Joachim Nettles also became a 
double winner as he won the 500 yd. 
freestyle with John Rossi literally follow
ing on his heels in second place.
Rounding out the scoring. Jim Matysek 
won the 200 yd. breaststroke and the quar
tet of Pete Dickey, Jeff Bland, Joachim 
Nettles and Harry Coleman swam to a five 
second victory in the 400 yd. freestyle
relay.
Overall, it was a very good day for the 
Tartan tankers as they garnered 11 firsts 
in 13 events, in the process showing that 
they can win the close races by pulling out 
several matches in the last few laps.
CMU will travel to Bethany next week, 
returning home for the final meet of the 
season here against Case-Western Reserve 
on February 11. The meet should be very 
competitive, so come on out and cheer the 
4-2 Tartans (3-0 in the PAC) to victory.
Meet cancelled
Due to bad weather, the swim teams meet 
at Muskingham was cancelled.
Its doubtful that the meet will be re
scheduled since the results would have no 
bearing on either Muskingum or Carnegie-. 
Mellons conference standing.
All smiles is swimming coach Donna Peckman 
after Saturday's victory over the Blue Streaks of 
John Carroll.
This week in Intramural Sports
Women break Chatham
by Perry Colosimo
Coach Janice Kepples Tartans com
bined a run n' gun offense with tenacious 
defensive play to virtually obliterate Cha
tham College Wednesday evening, 70-19.
Due to the aggressive play of CMU, 
Chatham had difficulty getting the ball 
inside for high percentage shots. They 
had trouble moving the ball past mid
court for that matter. The Tailans were 
also able to capitalize on many of Cha
thams turnovers, most of which were 
caused by the Tartan's swarming de
fense.
Leading the Tartan's both offen
sively and defensively was quick Terri 
Prescar. Terri does most of the ballhandling for the Tartans. She finished 
with a game high 24 points and was a 
royal pest for the Chatham squad, 
stealing balls left and right and bril
liantly leading the many last-breaks
generated by the Tartans. Almost as 
impressive was flaming Ingrid Goedicke. 
whobuml the cords for 17 points.
The most impressive part of the game 
was the manner in which the Tartans 
dominated the boards. Center Laura
C ooper tipped down most of (lie rebounds 
for the l aitans and gave CN1U many scor
ing opportunities while limiting Chatham 
to a minimum amount of shots on the
defensive end.
The game was a good effort all-round 
for the Tartans, one that will produce 
many victories if continued. The Tartans 
will host Robert Morris this Wednesday at 
6:00.
Sta'wo t Ingrid Goer.ci* e d'spiny* 
helped carry CMU to Victory
imbs
the form which
by Frank Pugliano
Wrestling starts this week. The commis
sioner for the sport is Mark Poland of 
Kappa Sigma. Its not too late to enter; 
interested persons should contact Mr. 
Birdy. For those who have already reg
istered, check the IM bulletin board for 
time and place of practice sessions.
Registration forms for handball and 
bridge are due today in the IM office. 
Its also not too late to enter a team in 
the water basketball program.
Upcoming events in Intramural Sports 
include the beginnings of the table-tennis 
(singles and doubles) season, call-pool, 
and rifle shooting. Registration forms for 
these sports are due by next Tuesday, 
February 7. in the IM Office.
Results this week in darts competition 
saw Comp. Sci. outlasting DTD for the 
title. Backgammon finals will be contested 
this week with DTD facing 8-Primes in the 
title match. Special mention goes to Glenn 
Giacobbe and David Kalmeyer for their 
help in the darts and backgammon compe
tition.
Today. Tuesday the 31st. there will be 
a special IM Board meeting at 4.30 PM in
the intramural, office. Also, pick up 
your All-Star blanks for soccer and volley
ball.
The Nose Knows: Basketball
I his week is the third, of the still young 
I.M. basketball season. Competition has 
been miense as several elosok matched 
teams vie Ioi plq\ -off births Jhe 'division 
leaders are becoming more and more demarcated as the season progresses. These 
are the major league standings as of this 
past Sunday.
HAVLICEK W L
The Other Ones 2 0
Celtics 1 0
GSIA-Bucks 3 1
Beta-A 2 1
SAE-A 1 2
Pika-A 0 2
ERVING*
ATO-A
Nerd-Knockers 
Reality II 
Coaches 
All-Stars 
exp-(MDBC) 
Sex Pistols
Basketball action this past week went 
like this: Sunday The Celtics unloaded the 
Sex Pistols. 63-29. ATO cracked SAT. 42- 
32. The Other Ones outlasted exp(MDBC), 
53-52, and, in triple overtime, the Neid 
Knockers overcame Pika. 58-56. Monday 
GSIA-Bucks bested the All-Stars 52-38. 
ATO defeated Pika. 68-42. and exp(MDBC) 
slipped by the Coaches, 50-48. Tuesday 
Reality II outshot exp(MDBC). 37-31, and 
the GSIA-Bucks rolled over SAL. 51-37. 
Wednesday Coaches finished the All-Stars. 
5(>-27. and the GSIA-Bucks upset Beta. 
58-50,
This week the game to watch wil be the 
Celtics vs. Beta contest Thursday at l):00. 
Both teams have closely matched talent 
and are competing foi the top spot in the 
Ilavlicek Di\ision.
