Cyert Calls for Increase in State U.
President Richard M Cyert speaks be
fore the Press Club.
Janitors 
Threaten 
Strike
by Ron Smith
C-MU is headed for a janitorial strike 
unless arbitration settles the differences 
between the University and Local 29 of the 
Service Employees Union. The results of an 
October 16 arbitration meeting should be 
available around the end of November.
As a matter of professional etiquette, 
the C-MU administration declined to 
comment on the situation until the results 
of arbitration are relased.
The dispute is believed to involve three 
issues. The first is extensive layoffs among 
the janitorial staff. Employees complain 
they are expected to do work formerly 
performed by three workers, and that the 
quality therefore deteriorates.
The second complaint deals with the 
new policy of team cleaning, which re
quires the employees to work in groups of 
two or more. Apparently, some have 
personal styles of working and feel they 
can no longer take individual pride in their 
work.
It is understood that team cleaning was 
originally intended to balance the work 
load among janitors. For example, a janitor 
responsible for cleaning the second floor of 
continued on page 6
Private universities like CMU will perish 
unless tuition at state universities is raised 
until it pays half the cost of state edu
cation, President Cyert warned the Pitts
burgh Press Club recently.
Cyert also called for scholarships to be 
paid directly to students, who would then
be free to attend any school.
Cyert, who made these statements be
fore the Press Club on October 22, has 
often expressed the same views in discus
sion with the university. His- public an
nouncement came a few days after a report 
by the Carnegie Commission on Education 
advocating substantially the same concepts.
Students at public universities would 
not suffer under such procedures, accor
ding to the President, since a recent study 
by the American Council on Education 
showed that parents of students entering 
public institutions in 1972 had an estimated median income between $12,500
and $15,000.
And such procedures would enable a 
mixed system of private and public institu
tions to survive because the disparity be
tween private and public tuitions would be 
reduced, Cyert said. '
Cyert cited statistics to prove that pri
vate colleges are losing students to public 
colleges: in 1961, private institutions ac
counted for about 44 percent of the de
grees awarded nationally; by 1971, when 
the number of degrees granted had 
doubled, private institutions were awarding 
only 34 percent.
The CMU President said such a trend 
away from private higher education is not 
different than could be expected if any 
private industry had to compete with a 
government-sponsored industry that was 
subsidized with public funds.
Suppose the government decided to 
enter the automobile business to produce a
low-priced car, and suppose further that 
the decision was made to subsidize the 
factories to enable the poor to have cheap 
automobiles. he theorized.
It would only be a short time before 
private manufacturers would have to with
draw from the production of low-cost au
tomobiles. Private companies would pro
duce only expensive, high-quality 
automobiles and as the gap in price be
tween the high-quality automobiles and the 
low-quality, publicly produced automo
biles became greater, production by private 
companies in the high-quality product 
would be significantly reduced.
In education, he asserted, a similar 
situation is exacerbated because of the dif
ficulties for most people of appreciating 
the quality of education, and because of 
the deficiencies on the part of private uni
versities in attempting to measure and 
make clear what quality education is.
fi tartan
October 30, 1973 Volume 74 Number 6
Byrds Suit Possible
by Sandy Como
C-MU may go to court to regain the 
$2200 lost when the Byrds failed to play a 
concert here last spring. Robert G. 
McCurdy, Director of Student Activities, is 
investigating the merit of a lawsuit at the 
instruction of the Student Senate. But 
since the Activities Board, which sponsored 
the concert, and Student Senate, which 
allocated the money, are branches of the 
university, the final decision lies with the
> administration.
The Byrds failed to appear for the 
March 3 concert because of an unsuccessful 
weekend tour of New England resulting in 
the resignation of the bass player, Chris 
Hillman. The Byrds booking agency, the 
Agency for the Performing Arts, said that
Roger McGuinn, the groups leader, at
tempted to enlist the aid of another musi
cian in order to keep the group together, 
but he failed, and as a result all concert 
dates were cancelled.
Consequently, said McCurdy, the 
AB was forced to refund $7000 worth of 
concert tickets, while approximately 
$2200 was lost due to pre-concert promo
tional expenses, although this figure might 
be inflated slightly due to undocumented 
costs.
Mr. McCurdy said that three letters have 
been written to the agency concerning the
HARD CORE PORNOGRAPHY
Mike Levine, the KDKA radio 
announcer who caused a furor over the 
showing of dirty movies by the C-MU 
activities board, indirectly called on the 
police to raid the film showings.
 in case the authorities ... would 
like to know where theyre being shown, 
these stag films will appear on the campus 
of Carnegie-Mellon University... said 
Levine in part.
The new information about Levines 
remarks comes from a transcript made with 
the assistance of Allen Mitchell, KDKA 
Radio Program Director.
Levine made the following remarks at 
the beginning of his October 11 Open 
Mike program:
Okay, we hear about the district 
attorney and the city of Pittsburgh raiding 
dirty movies and porno parlors. Heres a 
flat-out chunk of pornography coming to 
the city of Pittsburgh-and it doesnt 
pretend to be anything but pornography. 
Its coming from the New York Erotic 
Film Festival, and in case the raiding 
officers, in case the authorities who like to 
keep our community clean would like to 
know where theyre being shown, these 
stag films will appear on the campus of 
Carnegie-Mellon University, in a university 
hall: Porter Hall. Doherty Hall. Lets see: 
in room 2210 of Doherty Hall, tomorrow, 
in room 100 of Porter Hall the day after 
continued on page 6
Bob McCurdy, Director of Student Acti
vities , explores lawsuit possibilities.
expected refund and three replies have 
been received, but they have not indi
cated that the AB would be reimbursed. 
The AB blames much of its $3500 deficit 
for the 1972-73 year on the failure of the 
Byrds concert.
McCurdy, who is experienced in the 
area of entertainment contracts, believes 
that the Activities Boards chances for get
ting back the money in court would be 
very good. He explains, One hole in the 
case is that we dont have a signed concontinued on page 8
5 Years of 
Improvements
by Steve Calhoun
A five-year program that will cost 5 
million dollars has won Trustee approval.
The program, which must how survive 
the annual spring budget approval, will 
concentrate on hazards to health and 
safety, and on the preservation of 50 year 
old buildings.
The programs emphasis on preventing 
the deterioration of the buildings them
selves contrasts with the current renovation 
of Fine Arts, Doherty Hall and Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie College. That renovation 
is designed to improve facilities and con
vert some space for new functions.
The new program will also consider pro
blems with heating and air conditioning.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2THE TARTAN-Tuesday, Octobr 30, T973
EDITORS NOTE
An incredibly perverse week.
For the third Friday evening in a row, the nation and the world were 
treated to a presidential statement of major importance. After postponing 
his inevitability for two evenings in a row, Nixon faced the press on 
Friday night and put on a particularly strange performance to conclude a 
particularly strange week.
CBS news had it pinned down even before the show started. Dan 
Rather stood in front of the White House on the 6:30 news and described 
the mood of those at that White House as uneasy" "disturbed"', and 
different than the mood before any other press conference since Nixon 
took office.
The show itself was a revelation. For thirty minutes Richard Nixon 
was brilliant, unbeatable. He said what he wanted to say and got in his 
shots at the television news media. He made everyone aware that foreign 
policy was his strong point, and that foreign policy was vitally important 
in these times of world turmoil. And didnt flinch for a second anyones 
questions. Then was tripped up by a deceptively simple question.
How can you say that you dont place any blame on the network 
news media, but still say that youre angered by the way they distort and 
change the news. 
Dont get me wrong, he said. They dont anger me. / only say 
that because / respect them. Next question. 
What the hell?
Since when did Richard Nixon ever respect the news media? Since 
when did he ever consider that newsmen are just menprofessional 
mentrying to do the best job they can?
Well, from that point on, he was in trouble. The tough questions 
started popping up and he started to sweat. He dodged them and sweated. 
And within five minutes, he stepped aside and wouldnt talk anymore. It 
was infuriating.
But it revealed the basic Nixon press conference strategy. Go out and 
give the answers you want to give no matter what the questions are. And 
once youve given those answers, leave. This is why the press conference 
wasnt entirely successful, from Nixons standpoint. In the last ten 
minutes there were more questions than answers. There were too many 
specific hard nosed questions left unanswered.
It was the perfect capper to a week of completely unpredictable, 
unanswered questions. On Monday, Archibald Cox was a hero and Nixon 
seemed surely doomed. On Tuesday, the tapes were suddenly given up. 
The letdown of realizing that Nixon probably wouldnt be impeached was 
tempered with a stunned disbelief. Is this what weve been waiting for? 
What happens now? What does he have up his sleeve?
And on Thursday. On Thursdayeven more suddenlywe were 
placed on military alert. Nixon said it was the worst crisis since the Cuban 
showdown in 1962. It was nearly World War III. Nuclear destruction. The 
apocalypse. Or was it, as speculation around Washington had it, a manu
factured crisis? A crisis to divert attention from the crumbling regime?
What kind of questions are these? The end of the world is no joke.
At C-MU, it was the week of mid-term grades. The first time of the 
year when the academic crunch is really on. Students on this campus are 
faced with the demons of great work to be done and the accompanying 
psychic disturbances. Because we are in the formative years, at least three 
quarters of the students in this community are going through major 
emotional, psychological and personality changes due to the normal 
mid-term pressure.
In the context of the events that have been going on in the outside 
world, these changes seem almost perverse. How can any plans you make 
for the future be real when you cant be sure if a near-apocalypse was 
manufactured or not? How can you decide what you want to do with 
your life it you cant tell whether your nation is crumbling? How can you 
resolve any problems within yourself if you turn on the television and the 
whole world is crazy?
Its a shock to tell someone who doesnt listen to the news that the 
world almost ended that morning. Its a shock to hear from someone who 
does hear the news that everythings alright.
And Richard Nixon steps from the podium, drenched with sweat, 
and runs down the aisle, shaking, as the press call out in vain:
Mr. President! Mr. President!
Steve Saunders 
Editor in Chief
Letters:
ATTENTION STAFF:The News-Features Staff meeting has been moved to Thursday evening at 7:00 p.m. If you cannot attend, please contact your editor.
Plans are now being made for next Spring.If anyone knows people who are interested in working on the paper, tell them to let someone know.
Something to look forward to------Plans are being made of a full staff party on November 9. Details will be forthcoming.
Editor:
It is important to consider the recent 
events concerning the former Vice. 
President of the United States from the 
point of viw of those of us who are stu
dents of engineering and industrial admini
stration.
Specifically, it takes two to complete an 
illegal bribe. There must be one who is 
willing to offer to bribe; and there must be 
one who is willing to receive it.
The criminal information returned by 
the Federal Grand Jury against Mr. Agnew, 
October 10, 1973, spoke of particular 
engineering firms and of a particular 
financial institution. The engineering firms, 
of course, wanted to receive state con
tracts. The financial institution desired to 
obtain the award of a major role in the 
financing of a large issue of State of Mary
land bonds. At one point eight engineering 
firms were contacted. Seven of them res
ponded by being willing to make substan
tial cash payments in return for the state 
work being awarded to them. The eighth 
flatly refused, and his share of State of 
Maryland contract work was reduced.
It seems to me that- there should be a 
place in engineering and industrial admini
stration education where this kind of 
encounter or choice must be anticipated 
and discussed. Also, of course, there are 
many other ethical problems which arise 
from time to time during an engineering or 
business career. Better to consider them 
beforehand as a student, than to encounter 
them for the first time when a real world 
choice must too quickly be made.
Perhaps these conjectures are particularly pertinent since the press today 
reported that the principal of one of the 
large engineering firms who allegedly made 
regular cash payments in person to Mr. 
Agnew, continuing until the initiation of 
the U.S. Attorneys investigation, is a - 
graduate of Carnegie-Mellon University.
Perhaps we can have some campus 
dialogue about this.Thomas M. Kerr GSIA
Editor:
I must object to a statement made in 
Susan Kleins article, Hold That "Tiger i 
(the TARTAN, October 23). The state
ment, as printed, reads I want to see if 
Alvin Lee Sanders, who was thrown out of 
the Drama Department last year. .. 
I see no connection between Alvins aca
demic standing and the subject of your 
article.
More to my point, Alvins standing in 
the Department (past or present) is not ^ 
something that should be printed in the 
TARTAN. Grades, faculty evaluations, or 
College Council actions are personal and 
private concerns; they do not have any 
place in a campus newspaper.
The use of that information in your 
article reflects unfavorably on your judge
ment and is an unfortunate example of 
irresponsible journalism. <
tartan
Administrativ Editor
Christine Infante
Editor in Chief
Steve Saunders
Managing Editor
Gary Singer
Earle R. Gister Head, Drama
(Ms. Klein replies: I profoundly regret any personal discomfort I caused Alvin Lee Sanders by mentioning his temporary dismissal from Carnegie-Mellon last year. That
continued on page 7 (
Business Manager
Dywane Smalls 1
News Editor......................Steve Correll Entertainment Editor . . Susan N. Klein
Features Editor . . . . Shelley Burhans Events .................................Jay Cohen
Head Reporter..................Debbie Siegel Entertainment Staff . . Terry Cay wood
Craig Collins, Nonie DempseyNmm and Ferture. SttH......................... . Arnje Karr S(acey Robjn Kjmbc||
Marcia Abernathy, Michael Baum Debbie Weiss Hank Levy Sharon Neustejn
Bill Bromley. Gary Bronheim s,eve Perkins, Cyndy Schmidt
Steve Calhoun. Sandy Como Mark Eyan chimsky/ Ooug StQne
John Craun, Sharon Curcio
Thomas Kendig, Chris Kiskaddon Sports Editor ........................Jeff Englund
Tom Lang, Amy Reitmeyer Sports Staff . . . Glenn Campbell
James Russell, Barbara Shumovich Ken Kloes, Leslie Allen
Rob Simbeck, Kate Stainton Mary Chabala, Jim Litsas
Kevin Turcotte, Lois Wholey Mike Pochan, Mark Schiffman
Chip Yeager
Advertising Manager . . . Lester Nathan
Photography Editors . . . Elliot Arons
Ed Levine Layout Staff.Arlene Berkowitz
Photography Staff . . . Bruce Edelston Catherine Kinneavy, Louise LoPinto
Ellen Eddy, Chris Forland ^ ^ Anne Golden
Nick Lardas, Elliot Popowitz Copv *** .................................Mcn*
Rod Reilly, John R. Rose Sandy Cyndy Schmidt
Frederick A. Shamlian, John Shettel 
Courtney Larson .(Bryan Smith, Frank Stein Cartoonist.................................Ron Wiggins
The Editorial Board.of the TARTAN reserves the right to edit or withhold any copy that it 
considers unfit for publication. Published every Tuesday during the academic year by the student 
government of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Deadlines ^re 12 noon 
for announcements, classified ads and letters to the editor and 5:00 p.m. for articles and dispHry 
ads on the Wednesday preceding the Tuesday of publication. Editorial and Business offices are 
located in kibo 50, Telephone (412) 682-4557 or campus extension 656.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 30,1973Page 3
NEWS COMMENT
o
COME 
0 AND 
GET 
ME!
OCTOBER 23
Senate Chairman Frank Sacco said he 
will ask Mr. Richard Van Home to allow 
both Dennis Brandi and John Sisson to 
serve on the Committee on Scale, which 
will discuss the future size of the univer
sity.
Treasurer Ed Levine reported that the 
Peer Help is attempting to collect $2500 in 
unpaid loans from the Senate health fund.
Academic Affairs Chairman Arthur 
Fisher reported that the Flaherty 
investigation remains stalled.
Finance Committee Chairman Willie 
Thompson reported that a secretary for
student organizations would cost $1600 
plus expenses for telephone, desk, and 
incidentals. The committee approved plans 
to purchase a cash register and lease it to 
Student Activities for use at the informa
tion desk, which handles a large amount of 
money in ticket sales.
Thompson asked Senate to reject a 
$2000 allocation for child care scholarships 
that his committee passed while he was not 
present. He said that the child care center 
had requested Senate support when the 
university itself reduced the centers 
funding: "This is something the university 
propagated ... the university should
o
0
. - g^aaaateaa i ....  
! WE'RE NOT CALLING OUR PROGRAM 
OF ACTtOKl  CyertalsfoI * Wfc LIKE 
TO nacoi or SU - FooR *\cet .ufiUd
HWT, DID you SA>f SiPT <*MT(I T**lK, A'iK, 1 BOJOHN OCAN WtM-nONIN IT , MOVM
pfIU see, stPT. 15, too w. 
ut MAV HAVt SAlO tCWETMlNfe, TMIHH K D*> SAM ON {A COVER-UP, WAIT ( ITS UMIM6, | i StPT tfc Dip *0U SKI  MMMM 
o
support it. Steve Lee argued that the 
scholarships would not support the center 
directly, but would provide funds to assist 
students in paying bills at any child care 
center. Senate upheld the action in two 
related votes, 9-7-2 and 7-6-5.
check cashing
General Campus Committee Chairman 
Beverly Robinson reported that her com
mittee recommends that C-MU continue to 
cash checks for free and rescind the rule 
against cashing student paychecks. (As 
reported in last weeks TARTAN, the 
committee was expected to compromise 
rather than oppose the checking fee 
outright.)
Security Chief Ron Taylor answered a 
number of questions on parking.
Senate passed a motion by Fisher to ask 
the administration to amend the student 
handbook to allow students who take 
fewer than 36 units but still pay the 
activities fee to participate in activities 
other than varsity athletics.
Senate approved Larry Denburg as 
chairman of spring carnival.
$yearbook
Steve Lee made a motion to authorize 
the Senate yearbook committee to sign a 
contract with a publisher. Thompson noted 
that prior to its death at the end of the 
1971 fiscal year, the Thistle consistently 
lost money: $8,016, in 1969, $8,300 in
1970, and $2,600 in 1971. Warning that 
severe loss by the Thistle this year could 
wipe out the money needed for spring 
carnival or Scotch and Soda, he suggested 
that the yearbook staff begin work this 
year but wait until next year to publish a 
book. John-Paul McGuire, chairman of the 
Thistle committee, said that, at worst, the 
Thistle could lose only the money already 
allocated to it and would not encroach on 
other organizations. He offered to drop his 
request for Senate support if advance sales 
show that students are not interested: in 
answer to a question from Sacco, he said 
that good advance sales would be about 
half of the total printing of 600 copies. In 
response to a question from Thompson, he 
said that he did not know the exact 
penalties that the printer would have to 
pay in case the books arrived late.
Ed Abramson criticized a poll con
ducted by the yearbook committee pur
porting to prove student interest; he noted 
that the poll neglected, complained that 
only 20 seniors responded, and predicted 
on the basis of selling patterns for 
Activities Board tickets that advance sales 
would be small.
With McGuires permission, Levine 
amended Lees motion to withhold about 
$1400 of the current allocation of $2000 
until the bill for printing arrives. Senate 
passed the amended notion.
Senate passed a motion by Gary 
Cirrincione to recommend that library 
hours be extended, and a motion by Fisher 
calling on the General Campus Committee 
to investigate establishing a 24-hour study 
area.
By this time, the yearbook spokesmen 
had left the room. Senate passed a motion 
by Thompson that the yearbook com
mittee be required to consult with Finance 
committee and a lawyer before signing any 
contract.

---------------------------------------------------

: Dage 4THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 30, 1973
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Corned beef and Pastrami sandwiches are
served every Thursday at Cafe Tel Aviv, 
3rd floor dining room, Y-IKC 315 S. Bellefield. Lunch is served 11:30 to 1, Monday 
through Thrusday and is sponsored by 
B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish University 
Center.
Free Radio Space is available to all student
and non-profit organizations for publicity 
purposes. Submit information to WRCT at 
least five days before the date you'd like to 
have it on the air. Activities will be publi
cized for up to two weeks. Please put al! 
announcements on QV2 by 11 inch white 
?aper. They must be typed and concise, to 
oe read as is. Mail your announcement to 
A/RCT, via Campus Mail, Box 12, Skibo.
Two pinball machines have again been
jlaced in the Tartan Grill for the entertainnent and convenience of CMU students. 
Besides playing the machines, students also 
benefit from them in another way: revenue 
:ollected is turned over to the Activities 
3oard to supplement their programming 
md ticket prices to students. For these 
easons it is hoped that the machines renain in good working condition, so the 
naintenance costs are kept down; income 
tays up, and the pinball machines remain 
n. ?
pring Carnival '74 Planning Time is here!
f you've got any good ideas, or are intersted in helping out in some way, we'd like
0 know about it. (For you hearty souls 
/ho want to be committee chairmen, we 
eed people to take charge of Midway, 
weepstakes, publicity, the bike rally, Frisee Tournament, Art Festival, Faculty Egg 
oss. Picnic, kites and paper airplanes, and 
} forth.) All those interested send a brief 
ote with your name, campus address, and 
hone number to Larry Denburg, Spring 
arnival Chairman, Skibo 103. Use campus 
iail or just drop it off at the Skibo 
lformation Desk.
anhel Progressive Dinner: All girls
iterested in rush are invited to attend the 
3nhellenic Progressive Dinner on Novemsr 4, 1973. All girls are aksed to sign up 
>r the dinner in Morewood Lobby beveen the hours of 6 and 11 pm. on Weddsday, October 31 st. Everyone will meet
1 the recreation room across from the 
lorewood Cafeteria on Sunday, November
at 4:30 pm. and then proceed to visit all 
the sorority floors and enjoy dinner. It's 
great chance to visit all the sororities, 
eet lots of people, and enjoy a good 
eal.
CARNEGIE MELLON 
TRAVEL OFFICE 
Now Located
SKIBO 40A
Open Daily 
1 p.m. - 5 p.m.
BEFORE CORTEZ: A presentation of PreColumbian Mayan and Aztec culture. 
Featuring highlights of theories concerning 
Astro-archeology.
Sponsored by Latin American club of 
CMU and funded by Programming 
Committee.
Free and open to Campus and Com
munity. Tuesday, November 6, 7:30 pm. 
Wherett Room, Skibo. ~
The Latin American club of CMU extends
an invitation to the campus community to 
participate in its multi-faceted projects. 
Meetings are held weekly on Wednesdays, 
7:30 pm. BH 230. Bienvenidos!
All CMU women: Consciousness-raising
session to meet Tuesday, October 30 at 
6:30 pm. in the Faculty Lounge, Skibo.
Any Water Safety Instructors that would
be interested in helping teach a beginners 
course to Boy Scouts, please send your 
name and mailing address to: Alpha Phi 
Omr^a, Box 100, through campus mail.
This course will be taught during the 
second semester, Saturday mornings, 
excluding holidays, in the CMU pool.
A Roller Skating Party will be held on
Saturday, November 3. It is sponsored by 
B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish University 
Center. Buses will leave the Y-ICK 315 S. 
Beliefield Avenue at 9:30 pm. Cost is 
$1.00 Call for reservations by November 
1st. 621-8875.
Israeli and Folk dancing is held eitfity,
Monday evening at 7:30 pm. in the 3rd 
floor B'nai B'rith Hillel Lounge. It is spon
sored by B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish Uni
versity Center.
At the Jewish Philosophy Series, on
Sunday, November 4, Jonathan Broido, 
Univeristy of Pittsburgh, will speak on 
"Can Duty be Reconciled with Happi
ness? It is sponsored by B'nai B'rith 
Hillel-Jewish University Center and is held 
at 7:30 pm. in the 3rd floor Hillel Lounge, 
315 S. Belief ield Avenue.
Kappa Sigma and Delta Gamma will be
collecting for UNICEF again this year on 
Tuesday and Wednesday, October 30th and 
31st. We will be in Baker Hall on both 
days, in Fine Arts on Tuesday, and in Sci
ence Hall on Wednesday. Christmas and 
note cards will also be on sale.
Girls Interested in a group of dose friends?
Ever consider a sorority? Come meet the 
Tri Deltas! We're carving pumpkins for the 
kids at Children's Hospital on Tuesday, Oc
tober 30 at 9:30 pm. 7C Morewood 
Gardens. Commuters welcome!
Practical ProgramAt 4626 Forbes
Avenue, in Oakland you can see the yellow 
and purple house of the Hare Krishna 
movement. The temple is open to the 
public and we extend a warm invitation to 
you to come by yourself or with friends, 
when you have the chance. Every Sunday 
at 4:00 p.m. we have a full course vege
tarian dinner along with chanting, dis
cussion and a class in mantra meditation. 
During the week we present, free of charge, 
classes nightly on the Bhagavad Gita at 
7:30 p.m. If you or your instructors and 
professors would be interested we can 
come and give a full presentation about 
Krishna Consciousness in the classroom 
situation. Regardless of subject matter of 
study, this Krishna Consciousness can give 
pertinent and broadened insights towards 
understanding the goal and truth of our 
life. A university is meant to be a place of 
awakening inquiry and intellectual 
exercise. Self-realization is an important 
and essential aspect of our human life, 
intimated at in the great writings and 
philosophical discourses, and different 
histories that we study. If you are 
interested in having us come to your course 
for a guest lecture please contact us at Our 
ashram in Oakland at 683-7700. If enough 
interested students are so motivated the 
University will allow us to form a 
Bhakti-Yoga club on the campus. Please 
contact us if you are interested. Thank you 
very much.
CLASSVKD AOS
10 speed bicycle for sale. CCM Formula 1
Man's frame, green, 22Vz frame. Reynolds 
531 Air Conditioned. Call 421-5816.
Wanted: Advent loudspeakers. Used but
alive. 681-2987.
For Sale: Dual 1219. Must sell. 683-3579. Anna,
JVC Am/FM stereo casette w. turntable
and 5 speed bike. Call 441-5211.
For Sale: Electric typewriter, $100. Call
422-7141 after 6 pm.
You dont need a ticket to get in...
zo
CMU Presents
Student Senate 
Ballot
r ! Oct 30Skibo
< 11 pmiInfo desk
Custom Print Processing. Color and B/W
from 8mm. to 2%'' by 3%" negatives and 
35 mm. slides. Dry Mounting, Retouching, 
Special Effects. Darlene Covaleski, ext. 847 
or 441-2766.
Scuba Diving gear wanted: 963-9740 after
7 pm.
Typing: Term papers, resumes, etc. done
professionally on IBM selectric typewriter 
793-2491.
Signs: Flyers, lettered cheap. Any amount.
Cameo Sign Co. Call after 8. 521-8780.
Plevel Hauling. Pickup. Call 6-8 pm.
243-9520. Obviously inexpensive.
BLAZERS, JACKETS, TROUSERS
Wholesale prices to clubs, teams and frater
nities. Specialty Clothing Company, 1023 
5th Avenue, near Chatham Center. 
341-1288.
Females: Nude photographic modeling.
$5-7 hourly. Reply: Image Creators, P.O. 
Box 13200, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15243.
Tutor wanted $5/hr. for person capable in
basic structural design course in civil en
gineering. Call 341-4666, ask for John L. 
(from 9-5).
Telephone Solicitor: part time-full time
work. For aggressive, ambitious person 
with gift of gab. Call Prudential Products, 
Inc. 521-7395.
CMU Yearbook announces advance sales
for the spring THISTLE beginning October 
26 thru November 7. Limited editions.
PERSONALS
Anna was a little girl.
She was as pure as snow.
And everywhere that Anna went, 
Her innocence would show.
I followed her to school one day, 
And we began to fool 
Around and now I see that I'm 
An exception to the rule.
Love and Kisses 
Carly
Dear Elliot,
Was Libby Gretz in Washington?
Pam and Kay
Young, tender, kosher chicken wanted for
dinner and/or dessert by spiritual math stu
dent. Contact Jon F. Smith-McGill. *
Just a petition-due TodayPieve] hauling"I'll bet!

---------------------------------------------------

Hillel Hopes for Shalom
by Debbie Siegel
Expressing concern over the Middle East 
conflict, Bnai Brith Hillel Association, the 
Jewish student organization for the five 
college campuses in Pittsburgh organized a 
number of activities to deal with the crisis. 
Rabbi Phillip Sigal, Hillels director, 
stressed the emphasis of the campaign. We 
arranged with the student governments of 
our perspective schools to let us set up 
booths to solicit funds for the Israeli 
Emergency Fund and United Jewish 
Appeal. This was done a few days after the 
war broke out. From the five campuses we 
raised almost $1800. According to the 
ratios of student population, the best 
results were the sum of contributions from 
CMU students.
On Tuesday, October 9th during the 
time period for soliciting funds, a peace 
service was held at Heinz Chapel by Pitt. It 
consisted of readings, prayers, and Robyn 
Miller, a voice major at CMU led the group 
in song. In addition, Joseph Shimron, the 
President of the Israel Student 
Organization, spoke on his sentiments 
ibout Israels position.
.many students have 
gone to Israel to directly 
help the cause...
In addition to these activities, Rabbi 
Sigal stressed the importance of keeping 
students aware of the multi-faceted situa
tion. Dr. Joseph Zaslov, a professor of 
Political Science who gives a course on S.E. 
Asian Politics spoke on what he views as 
the major misunderstandings in the Middle 
Eastern situation. He explained how the 
Arabs have been preparing for this war by 
the very nature of the humiliation they 
have suffered from in the past wars of 
1948, 1958, 1967, making ready for a 
surge in nationalism. One question he raises 
on the Israeli side was whether the Israelis 
were prepared for the attack and didnt 
play the part of aggressor because they 
thought it might be against the popular 
opinion of allies. Another question 
concerns strength of Russian support 
versus the strength of the United States 
support. Without the Russians building the 
Egyptian army, the Arab side would most 
probably not be providing such fierce 
competition for the Israelis.
Perhaps the greatest difference, Dr. 
Zaslov pointed out, between the Arabs and 
the Israelis is that the Arabs arent under 
the threat of extermination as the Israelis 
are. A result of Dr. Zaslovs presentation 
was a discussion between Joseph Shimron 
and himself. Shimron shed some light on
an Israelis perspective. Most of the 
Israelis are very sick and tired of war. We 
will never get all our objectives fulfilled. 
Although we dont really want more than 
5% of the Sinai peninsula, even with this 
settlement, I dont see how it will change 
the basic Arab attitude which existed since 
1919. Shimron feels it is essential to work 
with Arab humiliation by transference of 
attitudes which Israel cant do very easily. 
He compared the Arab humiliation to that 
of the Germans in World War II.
Plans are being made for a similar type 
of discussion with a speaker, tentatively to 
be presented on November 1st at CarnegieMellon and at Pitts David Kurtzman 
Room. It will be held in conjunction with 
the University and City Ministries.
In response to how many students have 
gone to Israel to directly help the cause, 
Rabbi Sigal replied he was only aware of 
one Hillel member who volunteered to 
work in Israel and already left. This 
commitment includes the student paying 
his own plane fare and working for six 
months on a Kibbutz in Israel. Several 
students in the Pittsburgh area have 
pending applications.
Through various programs on the local 
level with Hillel and on a national level,
Hillel is voicing its support for the main
tenance of the state of Israel.
ERRATUM
An article in a recent TARTAN con
cerning Student Government elections 
inadvertently omitted two entries in a list 
of seats open to election. The article 
should have stated that commuters will 
vote for 5 full terms and 4 half terms, and 
that graduates will vote for 4 full terms and 
4 half terms. The TARTAN regrets the 
error.
 IS BACK 
COMPLETELY DIFFERENT
BEST EVER
.isSEMI FREE
AT LEAST TEN PRODUCTS FOR 99C 
o WILL SAVE YOU $4.00 IN THE NEXT MO. 
e GREAT FOR TRAVEL 
o EXCITING NEW PRODUCTS FOR YOU TO TRY 
o OVER 6 MILLION COLLEGIANS PURCHASED 
SUPERBOX
FOR MEN
Dial Soap 
Excedrin
Active Tooth Polish 
Flair Pen
Dep for Men Shampoo 
Breath Pleasers 
Sea & Ski Lipsaver 
Contac Cold Capsules 
Trac II Razor 
Foamy Shave Cream
FOR WOMEN
1 Lady Trac II Razor
2 Lemon-Up Shampoo
3 Active Tooth Polish
4 Jean Nate
5 Woolite
6 Midol
7 Contac Cold Capsules
8 Breath Pleasers
9 Aqua Fresh
10 At Least One Bonus Product
11 Tame Balsam & Body
Instant Conditioner
12 Playtex Deodorant Tampons
RESEARCH
Thousands of Topics 
$2.75 per page 
Send for your up-to-date, 160-page, 
mail order catalog. Enclose $1.00 to cover postage (delivery time is 
1 to 2 days).
RESEARCH ASSISTANCE, INC. 
11941 WILSHIRE BLVD., SUITE #2 
LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90025 (213) 477-8474 or 477-5493Our research material is sold for research assistance only.
AVAILABLE
TODAY
FROM YOUR BOOKSTORE 
(LIMIT: ONE PER STUDENT)
C-MU BOOKSTORE

---------------------------------------------------

ige 6-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 30, 1973
Craftsmen
Maintenance
Janitors?
by Barbara Lee Witte
One day when the sink in her More
wood Gardens room stopped draining, this 
writer learned the difference among the 
various people who keep the university 
clean and well repaired.
Theres a difference between a janitor 
and a maintenance worker, and there are 
differences between generalists and 
specialists among the maintenance workers 
themselves.
Primarily, janitors clean the buildings. 
Maintenance workers care for equipment, 
such as the boilers and heating units in 
Morewood Gardens, but are also the people 
students meet when something in a 
dormitory needs repair. Some maintenance 
work involves general repair, but other 
problems, such as those involving 
plumbing, require the services of a 
craftsman.
The next day a plumber-a craftsman 
came to solder the pipe and pour chemicals 
down the drain.
The general maintenance man wasted 
his time; he wasnt trained in plumbing. 
Sources on the staff have suggested that 
assigning general workers to work with and 
assist craftsmen would increase efficiency, 
since the general workers could diagnose 
and clean up.This past August, C-MU reduced by 13 
its janitorial force and added 13 main
tenance workers. Two of the maintenance1workers are craftsmen: a painter and a 
plumber. Adding these men to the force 
saves Frank Montag, head of the Main
tenance Office in Morewood Gardens, the 
need to call outside the university when 
problems arise requiring the services of a 
craftsman.
When the writer called the Housing 
Office to complain about the sink, the 
Housing Office contacted Maintenance, 
which sent a general maintenance man to 
review the problem. After a half hour, this 
maintenance man decided that the water 
on the floor was not from an overflow 
from the top of the sink but rather from a 
leaky connection. He couldnt do anything 
about it.
Next time you see 
someone polluting, 
point tout.
Its litter in the streets. Its air that smells. Its a river where fish 
cant breathe.
You know what pollution is.
But not everyone does.
So the next time you see pollution, dont close your eyes to it.
Write a letter. Make a call. Point it out to someone who can do 
something about it. - ***
Janitorial 
Strike 
Pending
continued from page 1
Science Hall obviously has a more difficult 
job than one responsible for Baker Hall; 
team cleaning would give everyone a 
chance at the easy territory.
The third complaint involves the policy 
of forcing the janitors to switch between 
day and night shifts. According to one 
janitor, a man who would ordinarily hold 
two jobs in order to support his family 
would now find it difficult to keep the 
second job.
The dispute between the University and 
the janitors occurs in the midst of wide
spread faculty complaints that University 
maintenance is inadequate. t mtf
t  f ^em^^StreetjCojo^lie vine s
Sensationalism A NoilProfit BUSIIIOSS
witinued from page 1
omorrow. and in room 2210 of Doherty 
fall October 14. Whats that-this is 
hursday, Friday, I guess that would be 
iaturday and the showings of the dirty 
ilms will take place at 7, 9 and 11 p.m. I 
ont know who the sponsors are, but its 
ight there on the campus, in the university 
uildings, Doherty Hall, Porter Hall, on the 
ampus of Carnegie-Mellon University. And
II bet the cops dont do a thing about it. I 
et the kids have a ball.
Levines remarks caused a rash of calls 
the university who wanted to confirm 
e time and place of the film showings or 
ho criticized the university for permitting 
em. But no raid resulted 
The movies were open to C-MU students 
ily. They were the Erotic Film Celeation, and not (as Levine said) the New 
jrk Erotic Film Festival.
by Lois Wholey
Located at 3459 Ward Street in the 
Oakland area, the Semple Street Food 
Co-op is a consumer cooperative owned 
and controlled by its members, and organ
ized to provide good quality food of nutri
tional value for as low a price as possible.
For the many students at CMU not on 
food contract who buy and prepare their 
own meals while trying to consume a nutri
tionally balanced diet, the Semple Street 
Food Co-op is such a bonus.
The Co-op is like a normal retail bus
iness in many respects although its ultimate 
goal is not to make a profit. Members col
lectively own the store through the pur
chase of shares which are five dollars each. 
Being a shareholder entitles the individual 
to a 10% (possibly 20% in the future) price 
reduction and one vote concerning the de
cisions made in the operation of the store. 
Each member is also asked to contribute at
least one hour towards the maintenance of 
the store.
A visit to the store will enable one to 
observe the fresh and varied produce on 
display. In addition to fresh dairy pro
ducts, one is also able to obtain different 
grains grown void of any pesticides. An 
extensive range of goodies are available 
ranging from maple syrup fresh from the 
country that morning to delicious chest
nuts that when roasted are great for the 
munchies.
The stores maintenance, depends 
strictly on it members and potential new 
membership. Members are mostly students 
and people in the general are vho appre
ciate natural and nutritional foods at the 
lowest possible prices. The attitude of the 
workers in the store conveys that the co-op 
is more than a store; it is a united effort 
made by committed people who realize the 
need and advantages of a cooperative food 
outlet.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 30, 1973-Page 7
Letters:
continued from page 1statement quoted by Mr. Gister went on to compare Alvin Lee Sanders to an actor who starred in a professional Broadway production. My purpose in mentioning the dismissal in that context was to imply that Alvin could not have been (and indeed was not) dismissed on the department criteria of not continuing to demostrate professional promise.  That Alvin returned to Carnegie-Mellon to a lead in a Mains tage Production should be an obvious indication of his ability, and anyone who has seen Alvin perform must recognize this ability.
4 The comparison was used in the article as a device to encourage attendance of the show. It is a statement whose purpose has been widely misinterpreted; therefore it did not serve its purpose. To misjudge the reactions of ones readership is admittedly as grievous an error as misjudging the worth of a student.But in this case there was no intentional defamation.)
Editor:
I am writing you in reference to 
an article that appeared in the 
Entertainment section of last weeks 
TARTAN. The article I am refering 
to was entitled Hold That Tiger... 
Aind was supposedly about the latest 
drama department mainstage 
production, Does A Tiger Wear A 
Necktie? The article (and I use the 
term loosely) turned out to be in 
effect a gripe column penned by 
your entertainment editor Susan N. 
Klein. It seems Ms. Klein was upset 
because she was not given the 
privilege of special critics tickets or 
seats to the production. A privilege, 
I might add, that has never been 
granted to any of the drama
departments productions. When Ms. 
Klein was not granted her special 
tickets she seemed to have been very 
jpset and proceeded to write an 
article explaining in great and 
sarcastic terms the reason why no 
review was to appear. She also used 
every possible opportunity to take 
pot shots at the drama department.
Another problem and perhaps the 
greatest one that the article has is 
the article itself. As a legitimate 
attempt at journalism it fails 
miserably. Not only is it offensive to 
this reader but it is just down right 
poor writing. She creates a mockery 
of her profession and herself. She 
claims to be writing a totaly 
objective article and succeeds in being 
objective only about the title of the
play.
In conclusion I should like to 
respond to Ms. Kleins request for 
opinions as to whether or not 
reviews should appear about the 
drama dept, productions. My feeling 
is that they should not. The two 
major reasons behind this belief are:
1) we are not charging admission 
therefore there is no reason to warn 
audiences away from spending their 
money (as of yet we have had no 
need to encourage people to get 
tickets to fill our houses) 2) and 
most important, in an educational 
institution there are times when 
people are cast in shows not because 
of their being right or wrong for the 
part but because the part will bring 
something to their education that 
they might not otherwise receive. A 
reviewer not aware of this fact could 
do untold damage to an actors ego, 
which in many cases is the only 
thing that keeps a man in this 
business.
Kevin C. Dreyer
Editor:
It was good to see the Student Senate
meeting reported in the TARTAN. Steve 
Corrells reporting was clear and in
teresting, capturing the entire meeting in a 
nutshell. And it was published almost a 
week before the official minutes usually 
arriveinnwjriaiJbox^JVeJ^
will make this a regular feature and we, in 
turn, will strive to be interesting enough to 
be newsworthy and keep your reporter 
awake.Steve Lee Student Senator
P.C.-Degree Program
To many college students in our nation 
the biggest question is how they can use 
their college education to benefit others 
without having a Masters or Ph.D. degree. 
For those freshmen and sophomores in
terested in math and science, the State 
University of New York may have the 
answer.
On the campus of the State University 
at Brockport there exists a unique program 
known as the Peace Corps/College Degree 
Program. The program, the only one in the 
USA, was started at Brockport in 1967, for 
the purpose of training teachers in the 
math and science areas to be stationed 
overseas as Peace Corps volunteers for two 
years. The first five years of the program 
were aimed at sending teachers to Latin 
America but the new emphasis is on Fran
cophone Africa, especially Zaire, the 
former Belgian Congo. In fact the project 
director has just returned from a two year 
teaching tour there.
The program, which lasts for 15 
months, is geared towards training volun
teers who have finished the equivalent of a 
two year program, 60 credits, with enough 
hours in their math or science major to 
finish in four semesters. The graduates, 
who minor in French, Zaires official lan
guage, receive a Bachelors Degree and pro
visional New York State Teacher 
Certification.
The program begins in June, continues
through the fall, the spring, and a second 
summer. During the two summer sessions 
the students receive intensive training with 
special attention given to French, taught 
by an international staff. During the aca
demic year the trainees take a full load 
which includes French courses taught by 
Professor Georges Hingot, who lived in 
Zaire before and after its independence. 
The French courses involve total immer
sion and are designed to give the students a 
working vocabulary so that they can teach 
in French by the second summer of 
training.
During the spring semester the co-di
rectors; Mr. Noble and academic director, 
Dr. Elaine K. Miller, hope to take the stu
dents to schools in French speaking Canada 
to give them the experience of teaching in 
a francophone classroom.
Mr. Noble reports that last years group 
has finished its training and is now at 
schools throughout the Zaire. The present 
group of 26 will take up their assignments 
next August. Both Dr. Miller and Mr. No
ble stress that there is a serious need for 
trained teachers, one that Peace Corps is 
helping to fill.
Note: If you qualify for this program and 
are interested in teaching in Africa, write 
to: Peace Corps/College Degree Program, 
112 Hartwell Hall, SUC Brockport, 
Brockport,-New York 14420.
HOMECOMING 1973
Scheduleof Events
Thursday, November 1, 1973
8:30 p.m.Thistle HallMDC-UFO Dance
4:30 & 8:30 p.m.PH 100AB Movie-Gone with the Wind ($1.00)
Friday, November 2,1973
1:45 p.m.GymLecture-Edgar Mitchell, C-MU alumnus
and former Lunar Astronaut.
3:30 p.m.Ski boAlumni Seminar-C-MU alumni return to
brief present students on the job market
and the graduate school situations.
6 & 10 p.m.PH 100AB Movie-Gone with the Wind ($1.00)
4, 6:30, 9 & 11:30DH2210MDC MovieKlute ($.75)
Saturday, November 3, 1973
10:00 a.m.IM FieldPittsburgh Stuntmastersmodel airplane
club.
10:0012:00 noonCutHelicopter ride-see C-MU from the sky.
$2.00 with C-MU I.D.
$3.50 without I.D.
10:00Skibo Parking LotBike Rally
1:30 p.m.Tech FieldHomecoming GameC-MU vs. W&J.
Roberta CunninghamNational Anthem;
Half-time performance-Baldwin High
lander High School Marching Band.
'4:00 p.m.BallroomC-MU Jazz Band
5:30, 8, 10:30 p.m.DH2210MDC MovieThe Prime of Miss Jean
Brodie (Free)
*7 & 10 p.m.GymConcert-Frank Zappa and the Mothers
of Invention

---------------------------------------------------

age 8THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 30, 1973
rustees Approve Project : Preservation
tinued from page 1
Deterioration of many of the 
iversitys buildings due to annual postlement of repairs has been an often 
ied concern of President Cyert.
The Annual Report of the President for 
Academic Year 1972-73 states, 
.. the token amounts of about 
)0,000 a year that have been expended 
maintenance have been woefully in:quate. A study of buildings and utilities
recently made has disclosed that the 
University now has a pressing building 
maintenance problem of monumental 
proportions.
This program, like all other campus 
maintenance and renovation, would be 
coordinated by the Department of Building 
Services. William Banks, the recently 
appointed head of the department, said a 
thorough survey of the campus has been
made to determine which buildings and 
facilities are most in need of repair.
Results of the survey are not yet 
available.
Ultimately the task of protecting all of 
the Universitys ailing buildings will take 
more than the initial 5 years, Banks in
dicated. The administration had originally 
wanted a larger sum of money spread over 
10 years.
Byrd
Boycott
continued from page 1
tract, but we do have proof that a contract 
was intended. Another difficulty is a 
clause in the contract stating that out-ofpocket expenses or promotional fees are 
not if the reason for failure to appear is an 
act of God like illness, accident, or incle
ment weather. However, out-of-pocket 
expenses are indeed reimbursable if the 
reason is not feasibly definable as an act 
of God.
Student Senate, which must absorb the 
Activities Board deficit, voted at its Octo
ber 9 meeting to investigate suing in hopes 
of 'recovering the lost funds. McCurdy 
noted that since the AB and the Student 
Senate are functioning parts of the univer
sity, the legal action will ultimately involve 
the whole of Camegie-Mellon University, 
and not the AB or the Student Senate of 
C-MU. In this way it is the universitys 
decision whether or not to proceed with 
litigation.
McCurdy speculated, The university 
might decide against it since $2200 is an 
insignificant amount in comparison with 
the universitys operating budget of 
$41,000,000. However, the amount is not 
as trivial in comparison with the Student 
Senate budget of $100,000, and conse
quently, should the university decide 
against pursuing a lawsuit, Senate might 
easily allocate funds to retain a private 
lawyer to pursue the matter themselves.
The administrator responsible for 
making a decision concerning litigation 
proceedings is Dean Earle R. Swank. He 
commented on the situation: Someone 
ought to make an informed judgment. 
None of us can make this judgment inde
pendently. Before making his decision, 
Swank plans to consult with the Student 
Senate and with McCurdy.
In order to secure the services of the 
university lawyers for the proceedings, 
Swank must obtain the permission of Dr. 
Ronald Rutledge, chief of operations. 
When asked if he would be likely to give 
the go-ahead, Rutledge replied that he had 
no prior knowledge of the matter and was 
unable to comment.
As an alternative to filing suit, McCurdy 
would like to print the facts of the case in 
a national magazine, the National Enter
tainment Conference Newsletter, in order 
to warn other institutions. The magazine 
keeps statistics on how often various per
forming artists fail to show up for perform
ances. We cant prevent groups form per
forming at other institutions, but this type 
of report would certainly inhibit them to 
some degree. In this case, the group; the 
Byrds, is no longer in existence, but ano
ther band has been formed and is now 
frequenting colleges and universities.
He also added that the idea of a private 
institution taking legal action of this type 
is nationally precedent-setting. So far, only 
state institutions who can enlist the aid of 
the state attorney general have used this 
procedure successfully. Weve tried to get 
institutions to do this for years, but youi 
cant force a school into something like 
this. Commenting that he did not believe 
that other performing artists would decline 
future invitations to C-MU because of the 
current action being contemplated, McCur
dy said that he sees the action in a rather 
positive light. What it will do is prove that 
schools will not sit back and take this crap.
What he needs, 
money cant buy.
Frankie Covellos mother works in a hospital. She puts in a lot of overtime. 
So Frankie takes care of his five brothers and sisters.
Frankie never met his father.
Last summer, he and three buddies got arrested for stripping cars. He got 
off with a probation and a warning. Next time itll be the state reform school.
Frankies mother loves him, but he needs someone to talk to. Man to man. 
Someone who thinks theres more to life than gang fights, pushing drugs 
or rolling bums.
Someone like you.
We know lots of fatherless kids like Frankie who need you. And we know 
a lot of other people who need you, too. Guys in veterans hospitals. Unwed 
mothers. Old people. Blind people. Patients in mental institutions.
If you can help, even for a few hours, call your local Voluntary Action 
Center, or write to: Volunteer, Washington, D.C. 20013.
What we need money cant buy.
4v*rnina contributedWfeneedyoiSr
The National Center for Voluntary Action.
VOLUNTARY ACTION CAMPAIGN
NEWSPAPER AD NO. VA-73-46----400 LINES (3 col. x M )

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 30, 1973Page 9
Club Shares Gulture
by Sharon Curcio
A new organization has appeared on 
campus, the Latin America Club. Mercedes 
Rodriguez, one of the founders of the 
Latin America Club, defined the purpose 
of the organization, to bring an awareness 
to the C-MU students about the other half 
of the western hemisphere. The club was 
formalized in the beginning of September 
and as a recognized organization will 
appeal to the Student Senate next year for 
funding.
An outgrowth of the Modern Languages 
Department, the club emphasizes the Latin 
cultures through film, music art, lectures, 
debates, and political presentations. Seven
teen club members have scheduled these 
cultural presentations.
The club is organized into committees 
without a president. Some of the moti
vating forces of the Club include: Roberto 
Kolter from Guatemala, Milagras Gonzalez 
and Mercedes Rodriguez from the Domini
can Republic, Bernado Gonzalez from 
Mexico, and a Mexican-American, or 
Chicano, Ronni Avila. Spanish majors and 
other students who have either lived or 
traveled in Latin America participate in 
bringing what they feel is an overlooked 
Latin culture to C-MU. Mercedes said that 
the Latin America Club is not traditional in 
the respect that it wants members com
mitted to working for the club; they dont 
want a roster of names, and have not yet 
advertised for additional members.
The Latin America Club invites the 
campus to share in a learning experience 
which is brought to students by students. 
The club wants to foster understanding 
between cultures and offers an opportunity 
quite separate from a departmental seminar 
or regular coursework. Mercedes said that 
she has difficulty understanding the lack of 
awareness, on the part of students in a 
professional school, concerning foreign 
relations with Latin America, but she 
hopes that the Latin America Club will stir 
a cultural awareness and convey to the 
students the warmth and complexity of 
our neighbors. She remarked that the
students must realize the plurality of the 
Latin American cultures, mentioning as 
examples that Haitis culture bears the 
influence of the French colonizers while 
Brazil reflects the Portugese culture; the 
descendents of the Spaniards slaves inhabit 
the Carribean countries, replacing the 
Indian cultures there.
The programs cover numerous aspects 
of the Latin American culture. On October 
22, Fred Halstead lectured about What 
Happened in Chile, from the vantage of 
one who witnessed the coup detat and the 
finish of Allendes social democracy in 
Chile. On November 6 Dr. Angela Vanakare will present Aztec and Mayan art, 
relating her archeological expertise to the 
recent claims of Erich von Daniken, author 
of Chariots of the Gods.
Latin Americans. . . 
know better than to blame 
an American visitor 
for the actions 
or policy of his government."
What can students gain from the Latin 
America Clubs efforts? Mercedes response 
is, Insight. Although each of the Latin 
American cultures share certain character
istics, items such as traditional customs, 
food, dance, and ritual differ as much as 
the cultural values within each group. The 
Spanish concept of honor and machismo 
still influence many Latin Americans. 
Mercedes concedes that Latin America has 
political instability. She made clear, 
however, that Latin Americans have a 
highly developed political consciousness 
and know who the decision-makers of their 
countries are. She feels that Latin 
Americans can distinguish the citizen from 
the foreign policy of his country and 
know better than to blame an American 
visitor for the actions or policy of his 
government.
She feels that some Americans have not 
identified the sources of governing powers
within their society to the degree that their 
southern neighbors have. Mercedes pro
fesses a Latin American nationalism and 
not a Dominican Republic nationalism. She 
stressed that the Latin American national
ism was the ideal sought by the Great 
Liberator, Simon Bolivar. This unification 
of nationalism among the Latin American 
countries, she points out, has only recently 
re-emerged (after all had acheived 
independence).
Culture and Politics
The Latin America Club invites Latin 
America students to question guest 
lecturers and initiate debate. Although the 
club is not a political club, Mercedes 
stated, Latin American politics from 
dictatorships to the juntas, coup detat, to 
the democracies is a way of life and cannot 
be overlooked.
Mr. Halstead began his lecture on the 
recent coup in Chile with a review of the 
Allende government. According to 
Halstead, the Allende government, a social
ist or Marxian reformist government, 
elevated the status of the lower classes in 
Chile. This government removed the San
tiago slum dwellers from the compamientos 
to an area where they constructed 
dwellings for themselves with government 
supplied materials. Allende also began 
reform within the educational system 
giving the lower classes a voice in educa
tional policy-making. The Chilean upper 
and middle classes opposed the enfran
chisement of the lower classes for the 
upper classes together with military wield 
great political power. Halstead feels it was 
this faction that stirred Allendes adver
saries and overthrew his government. To 
what degree the United States government 
intervened in the Pinochet coup has not 
yet been determined by political scientists. 
The only evidence of American inter
vention in the Pinochet coup according to 
some sources was that American planes 
bombed Santiago.
Chile has the highest literacy rate and 
the longest history of democratic rule of 
any Latin American country. Despite 
Chiles advanced position, many have 
speculated that the socialism Allende tried 
to introduce cannot be achieved by peace
ful means.
Mercedes said that the club attempted 
to introduce students to what happened 
in Chile and stimulate student interest in 
their governments foreign policy as it 
relates to Latin America. Mercedes added, 
This is what we are all aboutby 
examining experiences such as the Chilean 
junta, one can learn/ She emphasized that 
Latin American political phenomena such 
as the coup involve a complex of forces, 
and that it is necessary to understand 
cultures not only in peaceful states but 
states of unrest as well. Political 
phenomena is an important aspect of 
culture.
She about talked about the influence of 
multinational corporations in Latin 
America. These business interests eye only 
the natural resource wealth of Latin 
America and hardly have an undetected 
presence. Economic interests dictate much 
of the foreign policy between Latin 
America and the United States.
Mercedes observed that the day after 
the Chilean or Pinochet coup, Kennecott
and other copper stocks gained points on 
the New York Stock Exchange. The 
Pinochet coup reversed Allendes nation
alization of foreign interests in Chile.
"... socialism. . . 
cannot be achieved 
by peaceful means. "
Mercedes believes that presently the 
Dominican Republic has catered to 
American demands and that the U.S. inter
vention in the Dominican uprising in April 
of 1965, with 20,000 Marines, was 
unnecessary.
An internal crisis is the affair of only 
the nation experiencing crisis; intervention 
violates each nations right of self-determination, she says, adding the interesting 
thing in American society is that the 
people do not decide . .. Latin Americans 
are more aware of who rules the country 
(the big corporations) than the American 
people are. When Rockefeller came to 
South America it was the governments who 
welcomed him, not the people. The people 
demonstrated. The Latin Americans realize 
that the American government oppresses 
its citizens; the Latin Americans are a 
warm, concerned, and understanding 
people.
Mercedes firmly believes that sharing of 
culture and the understanding of people 
from different cultural backgrounds can be 
accomplished by an approach such as the 
Latin America Club. Appreciation and 
understanding can only improve the rela
tionship of the peoples of the Americas. 
Latin America only needs enough to help 
to stand on its own two feet and become 
self-sufficient. If the club can get one 
person from every three to care, and to 
attend out presentations for the sake of 
learning, then we have shared; we have 
reached our objective and our efforts are 
worthwhile.
Mech E 
Prof-Dies
A noted professor of mechanical 
engineering who came to C-MU last 
September has committed suicide.
Dr. Alan H. Stenning joined C-MUs 
Processing Research Institute on 
September 1 and specialized in the fluid 
mechanics of gas turbines. His research in
volved stall propagation and flow 
distortion in cascaded airfoils and com
pressors. He also worked with heat transfer 
in water moderated nuclear reactors.
Dr. Stenning came to C-MU from 
Lehigh University, where he was professor 
of mechanical engineering. Previously he 
chaired the department of mechanical 
engineering at the University of Miami.
He served as consultant to many organ
izations, including NASA, the National 
Academy of Sciences, and the United 
Aircraft Corporation. He represented the 
American Society of Mechanical Engineers 
on accreditation teams to several colleges, 
and took a strong interest in the teaching 
I of fluid mechanics throughout his career.
T ranscendental 
Meditation
As Taught 
by
MAHARISHI 
MASHESH 
YOGI
Spontaneously develops Full mental Potential 
Provides deep rest for increased energy
INTRODUCTORY LECTURE
WEDNESDAY 
OCTOBER 31
8.-00 P.M.
Scaife Hall - Auditorium
SPONSORED-BY 
STUDENTS 
INTERNATIONAL 
MEDITATION 
SOCIETY 
NON-PROFIT 
EDUCATIONAL 
ORGANIZATION 
361-8433

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-THE TA8TAN-Tuesday, t)ctober 30, 1973;
enterteinment
Art World
by Cvndy Schmidt
The first individuals' show opened 
October 22, with paintings by David 
Macerilli and Greg Weaver, and stuffed 
sculpture by Jim Tigerman.
David Macerilli's paintings are large and 
though almost minimal in composition, the 
simplification is essential. The use of color 
in these paintings is so complex and 
intriguing that any more complexity of 
composition would be confusing. Though 
Macerilli's colors are overlaid and applied 
heavily, the total effect is as opalescent as 
the reflections in a soap bubble.
Weaver's color vibrates. Also large, the 
non-objective works evoke evanescent 
conceptions that dissolve as the color over
whelms the image. The colors are applied 
flatly; the vibrating effect is caused by 
juxtaposition of carefully chosen hues.
Stuffed sculpture by Jim Tigerman 
rounds out the exhibition and they are 
round. They're marvelously monstrous 
creations, bean-bags from a nightmare. Thf 
imagery is naive, any more blase ideas 
would just be grotesque and not half as 
effective visually. The stuffed shapes are 
really involving in themselves and the 
representations play second billing to the
Photo by John Rose 
Sculptural exhibit at CMU Gallery 
entices visitors.
form.
The contrast between the off-white 
sculpture and the brilliant color of the
paintings presents an interesting environ
ment at the Student Gallery. This initial 
show of its genre sets a precedent that will 
be difficult io maintain in future shows, 
though the majority of the exhibitions \ 
presented this year have been a cut above/ 
the standard set last year/ .
A friend a*.d I attended the preview of 
the current show at the Carnegie Institute, 
Art in Residence--Art privately owned in 
the Pittsburgh Area. Knowing that a lot 
of money was behind that Art and that 
people with a lot of money usually put on 
a good show, we armed ourselves in our 
most ostentatious clothes and motored 
down to the preview.
We werent disappointed. The B.P.s 
(Beautiful People) of Pittsburgh were 
turned out in Glitter; formal dress and fur. 
In fact, the people were far more interest
ing than most of the paintings and sculp
ture. The art work is from the homes of 
people who live in Pittsburgh; thats what 
the show is all about, and the pictures do 
look as if theyd been taken from their 
place of honor above the fireplace and re
placed with an On Loan to Carnegie In
stitute tag. Some of the paintings and 
sculpture are nice for a living room, es
pecially if it matches the rug and the
chairs. Some of them were also pleasant 
just to have around the house because they 
were good paintings, drawings, prints and 
sculpture. Our favorites were two Magritte 
paintings, a Dubuffet, several pictures by 
Maurice Prendergast and a bunch of paint
ings by Pierre Alechinsky. The Alechinskys were probably purchased after they 
were exhibitied at the Institute; I noticed 
that a lot of the paintings were by artists 
who have recently had shows there. Most 
impressive of all was a real Monet. It wasnt 
a great one, though, so it was probably 
only worth $750,000, but it was still a 
good painting to have above your desk.
The Institute outdid themselves on this 
preview, at least to me since Ive only been 
to one other opening there. They had wine 
punch and a combo and society ladies 
serving the punch.
Also open during the preview was a 
small gallery on the third floor. This 
seemed to be a preview of the new method 
of hanging the permanent collections of 
the Institute and if it is, its a definite 
improvement over the old way. If you can, 
visit the show. Its interesting to see what 
Pittsburgh people buy and there are more 
paintings on display by well-known artists 
than there usually are at the Institute. This 
show is worth seeing (even if that Monet is 
only worth $750,000). . 
Erotica: The Naked 
and The Dead
by Mark Evan Chimsky
Pornography is like grape juice. After a 
while, our taste for the stuff becomes 
dulled by the monotony of its flavor. Only 
when it is spiked with a potent sense of 
humor can we be enjoyably, continually 
entertained. CMU's Activities Board 
recently sponsored an Erotic Film Cele
bration, featuring the cartoons, classic 
stags, and modern shorts chosen and dis
tributed by Grove Press. The films ran the 
gamut from the sublime to the ridiculous, 
with abundant representation ot the latter. 
The antiquated cartoons which prefaced 
these flesh flicks were surprisingly topical 
and witty. Unfortunately, quite often 
these inked figures proved to be far sexie 
than 1 heir human bodfellows.
Of the rest of the films, the least porno
graphic and the most erotic was the study 
of Marilyn Monroe. In light of the current 
Mailer book, this vignette of a film became 
a sensuous tragedy. There is young, 
ravishing Norma Jean lolling an apple over 
her bare breasts and playing with a coke 
bottle as if it were a funny, sacred phallic 
symbol. There is the fledgling Monroe, 
throwing back her carefully tousled mane, 
lips parted, her face a coy, skillfully 
memorized parody of the sexual response 
It is charming and pathetic; such films cost 
Marilyn her reputation, her life.
As long as youre going to reduce sex to 
nothing more than a routined, mechanical 
function, you might as well complete the 
joke by making it funny. Ot this collection 
of porn, only a few managed to be 
tongue-in-cheek while flooding us with a 
variety of other positions. The prime candi
date for winner of this witty, difficult task 
was Naughty Nurse, a contemporary classic 
which used sex as a tool to produce its 
comedy. The most sensitive of the assorted 
exotic erotica revealed two women 
delicately exploring and embracing each 
other. Its artiness did not eclipse the intent 
of the film-makers to treat their subject 
with a rarely-accorded respect.
But, in general, because a majority of 
the films lacked the necessary comic flair, 
the pornography became merely repeti
tious and tiring. (Youve seen one, youve 
seen em all applies here.) Luckily, the 
late show crowd was ebullient enough to 
supply a keenly clever running 
commentary. Their healthy humor 
enlivened, as well as contrasted, the screen 
action, which all too often lacked one of 
the most important ingredients of any 
good film-the element of surprise.
If this erotica was the best in its field, I 
can well imagine the tedium of the worst. 
Porno manufacturers must experiment and 
delve further into the worlds of creativity 
and humor, if they aspire toward the kind 
of major financial or critical success 
awarded the popular Deep Throat and The Devil And Miss Jones. Until the pornomagnates realize they must tickle our 
funny bones as well as our erogenous 
zones, Im afraid well be succumbing more 
to sleep than sex.
Men s Dorm Council Presents:
KLUTE
JANE FONDA 
DONALD SUTHERLAND
TICKETS :
756
AT SKIBO DESK
Friday Nov. 2 DH 2210
4:00 6:30 9:00 11:30

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday. October 30, 1973-Page 11
American Graffiti
by Rob Simbeck
American Graffiti is a pleasant, unpre
tentious movie with one annoying flaw. 
The movie takes a look at how pre-Beatle, 
Kennedy-era teenagers dealt with zits, 
booze, hot rods, music, horniness, cruising, 
and moon shots (remember shooting the 
moon?). Theres nothing heavy or worldshaking here, and they dont really take it 
anywhere, but thats probably its strongest 
point. Its graffitia few phrases and situa
tions pulled from the wall and presented to 
us.
The flaw is Ronny Howard, who almost 
ruins the whole movie just by being there. I 
eet the feeling Ronny said, Gee paw 
once too often during; years on the Andy 
Griffith show. In his attempt to portray 
Steve, the All-American boy and class pres
ident, hes Opie Taylor all over again. At 
one point, when hes trying to convince his 
head-cheerleader girlfriend that they 
should date other people when they get to 
college, he sounds like hes borrowing a 
dollar from Aunt Bea.
But if you can get past Mr. Howard, 
theres a lot of enjoyment here. It all takes 
place on the last night of the summer. 
Steve and his friend Curt are leaving for 
college the next day, and the whole gang is 
at Mels drive-in, where big-busted, 
bubblegum-chewing waitresses go from car
to car on rollerskates and those little two 
way speakers take your order and garble a 
response back at you.The gang splits up to 
spend the last night their own ways; John 
Milner (Paul Le Mat) hops into his yellow 
Deuce Coupe and goes cruising, looking 
both for girls and for the chance to prove 
himself as the areas number hot rodder 
Toad (Charlie Martin Smith), the class owl, 
complete with inch thick glasses, greasy 
hair and acne, takes Steves car and goes 
cruising, too. Curt (Richard Dreyfuss) just 
starts wandering around, and he gets in
volved with a gang of toughs while 
watching Ozzie and Harriet on a TV in a 
store window. Steve and his girlfriend Lori 
go to a sock hop. The movie jumps back 
and forth between the people and the 
incidents: John finds himselv stuck with 
somebodys pre-pubescent sister. Toad 
picks up an experienced blonde who wants 
to go drinking and parking. Curt goes along 
with the hoods and their escapades in an 
attempt to keep them from tying him to a 
car and dragging him around. All the 
episodes are filled with the high points of 
being young-making out in the back seat, 
dry-heaving in the parking lot, and fighting 
in the alley. And the acting in every case 
(except that of Ronny) is excellent.
The lines are all there, from the whimsi
cal, Why is it that every girl who comes 
around here is ugly or has a boyfriend, to 
the quick-witted, I lost my I.D. in a flood; 
will you buy me some whiskey?, to the 
pointed, I dont like that surfin shit; rock 
and roll has been going downhill ever since 
Buddy Holly died. The corny things 
everybody wasdoing itremember fuzzy dice 
hanging from the rear-view mirror?) are 
made glorious and refreshing in their
C-MU ACTIVITIES BOARD 
PRESENTS
In new screen splendor...
Hie most ina^niiirent picture ever!
'GONE WITH THE WIND'
w *
HOMECOMING WEEKEND
November 2 at 6, 10 
November 3 at 6, 10
November 4 at 2, 6
PH 100
$1.00 with AB card 
Tickets Now On Sale At Skibo
innocuous innocence.
Someones car radio is always on, so all 
the music from the (about thirty songs in i 
all, from Buddy Holly to the Beach Boys) 
is as much a part of the atmosphere as it 
was then.
When everybody comes together at the 
end for the drag race thats been in the 
making since the out-of-town hustler began 
asking for John, the movie manages to 
leave you with optimism (or at least hope
fulness) rather than with a glaring moral.
All in all, its a nice way to spend an 
evening. This is a movie more concerned 
with showing what it was, rather than ex
plaining what it meant. Ignore Ronny 
Howard and indulge yourself in a little 
unassuming reminiscence.
Two Gentlemen Of Verona
Right now at the Nixon Theatre there is 
a touring company of Two Gentlemen of Verona, the musical which was named best 
of the 70-71 Broadway season (much to 
the chagrin of we Follies freaks). Two Gentlemen, which sprang from the head of 
Joseph Papp, and features a book by John House of Blue Leaves Guare, is one of the 
most fun musicals to watch. It never stops 
for breath; its jumping, tumbling, flying 
around the stage, with more unceasing 
energy than most shows can ever hope for. 
The score is Broadway-Modified-Rock, and 
the show-stopper is a number called The Night Letter which sent Jonelle Allen and 
Clifton Davis bopping off to stardom. See 
it, see it, see it, before it goes away. Call 
the Nixon box office at 281-6773. Its a 
peach.
Beckett Festival
This generations Lunt and Fontanne 
will be the next performers at the Inter
national Poetry Forum. Jessica Tandy and 
Hume Cronyn, who were last seen together 
in Albees A Delicate Balance will be per
forming from the works of Samuel 
Beckett. Tandy and Cronyn are considered 
among the finest actors in the world by 
most peoples standards; and as a matter of 
fact, Cronyn is considered one of the best 
j interpreters of Beckett. The program will 
: consist of Krapps Last Tape and Not I. 
The performance is on Friday, November 
2nd at 8:15 pm. at Carnegie Music Hall. 
J Tickets are available down at Carnegie 
Library and at Kaufmans, Gimbels and 
Hornes. If you go to the Poetry Forum at 
all this year, this is the special performance 
you shouldnt miss.
The Collection
1 urge you to see The Collection, the 
play by Harold Pinter, which will be 
performed by the Pittsburgh Laboratory 
Theater from November 1st through the 
4th. The Collection was recently per
formed in the C-MU Studio Theatre and it 
was one of the most absorbing and wellwritten one-act plays Ive ever had the 
pleasure of seeing. In fact, this play might 
change your mind about Pinter and his 
style of subtlety and implication. The Pitts
burgh Laboratory Theatre is housed in a 
church at the corner of Craft Avenue and 
Fifth Avenue, right up the street from the 
Playhouse. Opening nights donation is one 
dollar, and subsequent evenings is two 
dollars. Curtain time is 8:30, and for more 
information or reservations, call 421-9599. 
(dont pause)-SVKFrankLv, Dr Swlfcf, 
r dont nt
3 ...

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 30, 1973
Hiebig
bite
by Stacey Robin Kimbell
Once Antonino (of Antoninos of Craig 
Street) worked at Gino and Petes (of Gino 
and Petes of Craig Street) Antonino left 
Gino and Petes and opened his own 
pizzeria across the street. Evidently there 
were some harsh feelings because it seems 
Gino and/or Pete went over to insult 
Antoninos wife and there was a fight in 
the street and there have been many street 
fights between the two since and it seems 
to have become tradition according to 
Craig Street dwellers. Also by word of 
Craig Street people, Antonino makes the 
best pizza in town which is obviously the 
reason Gino and Pete are so perturbed. 1 
never got to Antoninos because I did the 
pizza circuit entirely in one night. It ended 
around the corner from Antonino's at 
Betos which ended my pizza eating in 
Pittsburgh altogether. Beto sells soggy 
bread with tomato juice and occasional 
cheese on top at 20 cents a cut. They call it 
a cut rather than a slice. It's rectangular.
Its awful. You cant sit down anywhere in 
the store and if you want to stay in Betos 
while you are eating you can lean against 
the counter and watch TV. If youd like to 
eat outside you can sit on the stairs of the 
Chinese Hand Laundry next door to the 
Holiday bar. (Forbes Ave. next to the 
freight tracks)
Around the corner is Gino and Petes 
(Craig Street between Forbes and Fifth). 
At Gino and Petes you have to buy an 
entire pie. They do not sell slices and if 
they did they * probably  never would get 
rid of their pizza. There is magic to their 
method. But, just in case you dont want 
too much, Gino and Pete have the problem 
solved by making a junior, parent anct 
grandparent sized pizza. Theyre 12, 16 
and 18, respectively. The junior pizza is 
made on a rolling board rather than being 
thrown in the air. When I saw some dough 
being thrown in the air it didnt, go high 
enough. (Some pizza man once explained 
to me that if the dough doesnt get the 
right height, the crust will be a flop.) Gino 
and Pete make pizza thats bland. Its 
spiceless and. theres not enough tomato 
sauce. The only thing that compensates for 
it is that Gino and Petes has the atmo
sphere of a pizzeria which none of the 
other places I went to had. Supposedly 
Antoninos where I did not does also, and 
they sell slices.
In Squirrel Hill (Murray Avenue across
from Iz Cohens) is Mineos. Mineos
operates like a Kentucky Fried Chicken
place. You walk into a big white store and
lean against a big white counter and order
one of these ridiculous sized pizzas. We had
a junior with pepperoni and mushrooms on
one side. You cant order a slice here either and you have to take out whatever you
buy, so we went to the school yard around 
the corner on Philips Street. We were 
followed by a hungry little* dog for 10 
minutes and she was very nice to us but 
when her owner came, this kid with 
vampire blood on his hands and vampire 
teeth in his mouth came she began to bite 
him. She was also biting the pizza. 
Accompanying me on this journey was last 
years MDC pizza taster. By his better 
judgment it was decided that the crust was 
soggy. It had obviously never been airbound. The pepperoni was plentiful and it 
cost $2.65 whicli was too much for too 
little cheese. I eat pizza with my fingers. I 
dont eat the crust, only the cheese and 
sauce and there is no place around here 
that puts enough cheese on but with the
pepperoni and the mushrooms it didnt seem so vacant.
Up the block, closer to Weinsteins is 
Napolis. Napolis had the best pizza I had 
that day. Firstly you could buy a slice. The 
crust was strong, though a bit burnt. There 
was enough tomato and spice. Also they 
were short with the cheese but it was like 
bad New York pizza, which is good for 
Pitts. Napolis delivers to the dorms. They 
are probably your best bet if you must 
have pizza except for Antoninos which as 
I said before, I didnt eat at.
This week in Zurich, Ontario a 
community of 700, 7000 tickets were 
bought to the towns annual bean festival. 
One and a half tons of beans, 800 gallons 
of ketchup, 600 pounds of brown sugar, 
100 pounds of salt, 800 pounds of bacon 
and one ton of ham were used to make 
three tons of cooked beans.
Attention!
Get a Discount on Your
FILM ARTS 
TICKETS
Now on sale for:$3.75 per semester 
$6.00 per year pass
Available at Skibo Information Desk
November 1-Gone With the Wind
Times 4:30,7:00,9:30

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 30.1973-Page 13
EVENTS:
Muzak
If your father tells you about the navy 
band in the War, or your mother tells you 
how you wouldnt appreciate this kind of 
music and then smiles at your father (they 
were making nookie during the whole con
cert, so how do they even know?) well, then 
you probably shouldnt go to see Benny 
Goodman at Heinz Hall. But. if you could 
dig the smoothest swingingest clarinet 
around, then this is for you-November 21, 
at 8:30 p.m. Tickets are $7.50, $6.50 and 
$5.50, and are on sale at Heinz Hall, all the 
department stores and Pitt Student Union. 
Discounts will be given to students with 
ID.
Playhouse
The National Theatre of the Deaf will be 
appearing at the Playhouse on November 5, 
for one performance (then back to the 
asylum). You can get your rocks off yelling 
at this one. For information call 621-4445. 
Eh, come again?
WQED
A week of growing oldprograms such as 
Flip Wilsons Wrinkles, Birthdays and other Fables, examine the sensitive problem of 
growing old in our society during this 
week-long schedule.
WQED-FM
Thursday, November 1-BBC Promenade 
the Moscow Radio Orchestra plays Glinkas 
Ruslan and Ludmilla, and Tchaikovskys 
Symphony number 6. They are conducted 
by Gennadi Rozhdestvensky (thats got to 
be a misprint!) See what detente can do. 
Friday, November 2-At the Lecturnthe 
series this month covers William Butler 
Yeats, the Celtic Poet. This is for you if 
youre a Celts fan.
Beauty is Truth
Israeli Violinist Itzhak Perlman will appear 
with the Pittsburgh Symphony November 
2-4 with a matinee on Sunday, the fourth. 
The program will include Dvoraks Violin 
Concerto in A minor, and Schuberts Ninth 
Symphony. It has got to be good, 
Perlmans a YID!
All That Jazz
Appearing at Walt Harpers Attic for four 
days, starting October 31, will be Ramsey 
Lewis. There will be a matinee on Friday, 
November 2, at 5 p.m. Market Square is 
interesting but gets gruesome after dark, so 
watch out for one-armed bandits and travel 
with a friend, or even two.
-jcLiterati
by Christine Infante
What happens to the prose, poems, 
stories of the young artist? Do they lay 
crumbled in drawers, stuffed in novels as 
bookmarks? *
With the belief that young artists ought 
to have some chance to publish their works 
several enthusiastic students set out to 
create a student literary magazine. 
Supported by Gerald Costanzo, poet and 
assistant professor and financially backed 
by the student activities board the first 
issue of Two-Hands appeared during the 
1971-72 school year. The initial idea was 
to be self-sufficient. Unfortunately Two-Hands never attained that independ
ence because those enthusiastic students 
never bothered to sell the issues.
In the fall semester of 72 editors 
George Evans, Paul Barry and James Flood 
assembled to revamp the publication. Out 
of their efforts emerged the Oakland Review, which they intend to see become
a permanent replacement for Two-Hands
At the end of last semester Oakland Review: wild grass edition appeared. It is ranked among the top ten of 150 
magazines by the Coordinating Council of 
Literary Magazines. Adds Evans, and 
thats not too bad for a first print.
The style of the magazine is patterned 
after a Chinese format and has received 
recognition by the Peking University.
The Oakland Review is a collection of 
student works with one or two invited 
faculty selections. All entries are reviewed 
and selected by students. The founding 
editors hope to see it encompass non-C-MU 
campus artists though that would require 
complete financial independence.
At the moment only prose, poems, and fiction appear in the magazine. They would 
also like to see this practice change and 
welcome artwork, music or other literary 
forms. Naturally they would welcome your 
interest in publishing, advertising, or 
proofreading on Tuesday, October 30 at 
11:30 in BH 225A._________________
PROGRAM ON HUMAN SEXUALITY 1973/1974 
CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITY
October 31
SEXUAL FUNCTION 
and DYSFUNCTION
Carol Anderson M.S.W. 
Western Psychiatric Hospital
Marvin Rulin, M.D.
McGee Womens Hospital
Breed Memorial Hall, Margaret Morrison Carnegie College
All lectures scheduled for Wednesday evenings, 3 pm
OPEN TO MEN AND WOMEN
RUGS
for
with your 10 Card lite SIS. S19. $29. $39 iso 6x9, 12x12s, 12x19
AJm V4I tapMtriM, <!>* ru^k
furry ray nW b*dtpr*Ut. I
pric oriwtel n*t gO COb
ASX ABOUT DISCOUNT H)MIT\i
CHASE S
10 i.n. .  p.m. St. til S
for direction! call 421-tWS
UNWANTEDPREGNANCY?
AMERICAN FAMILY PLANNING IS A 
HOSPITAL-AFFILIATED ORGANIZA
TION OFFERING YOU ALL ALTERNA
TIVES TO AN UNWANTED PREG
NANCY. FOR INFORMATION IN YOUR 
CALL:
CaM (215) 449-2006
AMERICAN FAMILY 
PLANNINGA Medical Service to Help You
HEY CHARLS! IM GOING TO 
SEND THIS JOKE IN TO THE 
TONIGHT SHOW ! SEE WHAT 
YOU TUiHK ? T
V
WHAT IS THE DIFFERENCE. 
BETWEEN SPIRO AND 
GBRAL-D ? J
"V
1
YOU CAN DRIVE A FORD ANYWHERE, 
BUT VOU CAN ONLY DRIVE AN AGNEW 
SO FAR Z )
BOSS* OLD BOY, YOOVE BEEN 
WATCHING TRUTH OR CONSEQUENCES 
~j^ TOO LONG!

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14-THE TARTAN-Tuesday. October 30, 1973
/poit/
C'MU Powerhouse 
Too Much For Case
The Magnificent 
Seven (Games)
by Jim Litsas
The C-MU football Tartans romped over 
the Case-Western Reserve Spartans on 
Saturday by a score of 30-0. Boosting their 
overall record to 3 wins and 2 losses, the 
Tartans outclassed their opponents in 
nearly every aspect of play.
Case is having a disappointing football 
year, winless all season and scoreless in 
their past four games. Their tiny 28 man 
squad, with many players on both offense 
and defense, was deeply frustrated by this 
last defeat. The Spartans were apparently 
well fired up to claim their first victory, 
and a big crowd turned out to Eddie 
Finnigan Stadium in Cleveland in hopes of 
an upset, but the Tartans' nearly flawless 
play, and the Spartans' frequent blunders, 
dashed CWRUs hopes for victory.
Case had a big break early in the game 
when they downed their first punt on the 
C-MU 2 yard line. The Tartans, with their 
backs to the wall, soon gave the ball back 
to Case, who appeared to have good field 
position and an excellent opportunity to 
score. They blundered, however, by throw
ing an interception. The Tartans capitalized 
on this and put together a drive that ended 
with a Duquette to Radic TD pass. From 
here on in, it was almost all downhill for 
the Spartans. They would lose two fumbles 
and throw one more interception in the 
course of the game.
Later, the Tartans reacted beautifully to 
a CWRU punt, which Brian Carlock ran
back 75 yards for the Tartans second 
score. C-MU stunned everyone on the field 
by beginning the second half with an onside kick (possibly accidental) which they 
recovered. Tom McMeekin scored on the 
following drive with a Field goal. Quarter
back led Harhai ran into the endzone for 
the Tartans fourth score, and Brad Punko 
Finished off the slaughter with a pass recep
tion in the endzone.
Richard West and Pat Counihan stole 
the show on Saturday by rushing for 72 
and 65 yards respectively. West also ran 
back a punt for 52 yards, missing a touch
down by one defender. The Tartans 250 
yard rushing attack was quite welcome in 
view of the fact that our offense in the past 
three games has been almost completely 
aerial. The Tartans 22 first downs versus 
the Spartans 10, testify that C-MU moved 
the ball effectively.
Jay Duquette completed nine passes in 
14 attempts, while Ted Harhai made 5 of 
6. Each threw one touchdown pass. Johr 
Radic led the receivers with Five catches, 
followed by Brad Punko and Brian Carlock 
with two apiece.
The C-MU defense was led by safety 
Bob Scott, who had a huge number of 
tackles. Mark Balent and Bill Vukoder each 
had an interception.
Carnegie-Mellon is a good team. They 
dont make many mistakes. commented 
Spartan letterman Randy Romick. Dont 
YOU make a mistake and miss Saturdays 
Homecoming game against W&J.
by Glenn Campbell
Once upon a time, before Pete Rozelle 
and Vinc^ Lombardi, before Super Sunday 
and bowl games, baseball was the only 
game in town. The World Series was THE 
sporting event. People would crowd around 
department store windows where a Western 
Union operator would post the inning by 
inning score. Getting a ticket to an actual 
game wac the dream of every boy in 
America. Ballplayers were not seen as 
mercenaries but as brave knights going 
forth to do battle for the honor of their 
city. Along with many other aspects of 
American life, these sentiments have 
changed. The World Series is still the most 
important sports event but the popularity 
it once attained is spread out among many 
other sports and leisure pasttimes.
Tradition is the hallmark of the World 
Series. Jon Matlack and Reggie Jackson are 
the ancestors of Babe Ruth and Sandy 
Koufax. An integral part of every Series is 
the memory of those who have played 
before. We are reminded of Ruths called 
home run, Larsens perfect game, 
Mazeroskis ninth inning home run and the 
Miracle Mets of 1969. Every game of the 
Series has a feeling of history pervading 
and it is this feeling which give the games 
even more drama.
The series has also been known to lift 
relative unknowns into the ranks of heroes 
while ballyhooed superstars dont perform 
up to expectations. Before last years series 
Gene Tenace was known only to faithful 
box score readers. After hitting four home 
runs and being voted the most valuable 
player Tenace became a household word.
Pete Rose, one of the few superstars left in 
the game, was a flop, joining the ranks of 
other Series failures such as Ty Cobb 
and Ted Williams.
But the World Series has served as the 
stage on which baseballs best have risen to 
the occasion under the most difficult of 
circumstances. The late Roberto Clemente 
finally received the recognition he had long 
deserved in the national television exposure 
of the 1971 World Series. The Pirates were 
down two games to none when Clemente 
took command. In as dominating a one 
man show as is possible in a team sport, 
Clemente played baseball at a level close to 
perfection. Leading the Pirates to a wildly 
exciting seventh game victory, Roberto 
epitomized a true superstar.
The World Series is also unique because 
of its capacity to excite and unite a city. 
Black and white, rich and poor, are all 
pulling for the same thing. People with 
nothing at all in common finally do have a 
common interest. The 1968 Detroit Tigers 
were a cooling influence on that racially 
troubled city. Baseball is still only a game 
and not the cure for societys woes but the 
exhilarating triumph of a World Series 
victory helps a city transcend its problems.
Baseball is the most intimate of sports. 
Being at the ballpark conjures up memories 
of younger days. Sitting in the bleachers 
we .can close our eyes and return to a 
simpler time. We see boyhood heroes who 
epitomized the good life. We see a world in 
which there is always hope-we can always 
play another game tomorrow. And even 
when the season ends we can say wait til 
next year when yesterdays losses are 
forgotten and only brighter days lie ahead.
Soccer Title Hudes CMU
Tartan Runners 
Leave Bethany Behind
by Ken Kloes
The cross country team continued its 
assault on PAC schools with its second 
consecutive shutout last Tuesday, 
trouncing the Bethany Bisons 15-45. The 
Tartans also captured their second course 
record in as many races as Ken Kloes 
winning time of 26:53 lowered the mark 
set earlier by Cases Greg Bowser. Greg 
Dewey took second in 27:38, only five 
seconds from the old record. (In the 
previous meet, Dewey and Kloes bettered 
the record at W&J by a minute and a half.) 
Tony McKay placed third for C-MU and 
steadily improving Fred Carlson finished 
fourth. Greg Hyatt, Tom Silvis, and Ray 
Smith took Fifth, eighth, and tenth to
complete the scoring.
At this point, an explanation of that 
score may be in order. In cross country^ 
each teams score is the sum of the 
positions of its First five runners; the team 
with the low score wins. Thus the best a 
team can do is score 15 pointsthis is 
referred to as a shutout.
The race against Bethany took on added 
significance as it is on that extremely hilly
5 mile course that the PAC championships 
will be held. So, in addition to the team 
gaining some familiarity with the course, 
the fast times turned in will give the 
competition something to think about. The 
Tartans meet Allegheny and Hiram this 
Tuesday in a Fmal preparation for the PAC 
championships on November 3.
by Jeff Englund
Hopes of a C-MU soccer title were 
dashed last Tuesday as Bethany defeated 
the Tartans 2-0.
Bethanys goalie and fullbacks were 
outstanding, holding the C-MU offense to 
four shots in each half. The Bisons got off
20 shots.
Mike Smith, last seasons Tartans MVP, 
was injured but stayed on to Finish the 
game. He is supposed to be able to start 
against Allegheny.
Carnegie-Mellon will try to clinch 
second place when they travel to Meadville 
today to play Allegheny, whose only loss 
came 3-1 to the conference leader and 
defending champion Bethany College.
Hockey Opener Set
^\ COMPUTERV-/ DATINGFOR FREE BROCHURE ONDATAMATIC
COMPUTERIZED DATING.P.O. BOX 7421
ONLY FOR THE MOST DISCRIMINATING.OAKLAND STATION
FOR FREE BROCHURE,PITTSBURGH, PA.,
WRITE15213
by Dave Girdany
The Western Pennsylvania Inter
collegiate Hockey Association season 
begins league play on November 6. Tartan 
fanswill be able to see their team in action 
at the Civic Arena at 7:00 on December 2. 
The opponentDuquesne. But on this 
date, as well as for the other eight games 
C-MU plays at the Arena, another league 
game will be played. Students and under 
18 can purchase individual game tickets for 
$1.00. All other tickets are $2.00. How
ever, persons wishing to save money can 
purchase a season ticket-nine Tartan 
hockey games and nine additional league 
games-eighteen college hockey games, at a 
cost of $7.50 for students and under 18; 
$15.00 for others. It can be noted that a
box seat at one Penguin game also costs 
$7.50. So, a student can see eighteen games 
for the price of one. The Tartans also play 
two home games at the Sewickley Arena. 
Individual game tickets cost the same 
($1.00 and $2.00). However, one can pur
chase another special season ticketnine 
C-MU Civic Arena games, two C-MU 
Sewickley games, plus nine other league 
gamestwenty college hockey games for 
$8.50 ($16.00 for non-students, over 18). 
This is a great chance for hockey fans to 
see the fine play in the league, as well as a 
chance to see the league favorite Tartans in 
action.
This promises to be a great season for 
the league. So, support the league, as well 
as your home team, the C-MU Tartans. Its 
a great buy.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 30, T973Page 15
Bunch vs  Beta 
in the Final!
by Mike Pochan
In two of the most exciting games seen 
all year, the Wild Bunch edged PIKA and 
Beta Theta Pi squeezed past Coaches 
All-Stars to set up the championship 
confrontation that ends the IM football 
season.
Beta Theta Pi pulled out their victory 
with five seconds left in the game on a 
touchdown pass from Stu Cedrone to 
Stovicek. The final score was 28-24.
The Stars, running an entirely new 
offense, struck first on their second set of 
plays, with quarterback Mike Koshute 
pitching out to McCurley for a two-yard 
touchdown play. The score was set up on a 
long pass to Scattaregia.
Beta rumbled back to the Stars 11 
yard-line on a pass to Stovicek. A personal 
foul was called on Scattaregia on the play, 
and the ball ended up on the 5Vi yard-line. 
Cedrone hit Jim Brogan with a short pass 
to tie the game.
On the Beta kickoff, Scattaregia made 
an amazing play of dribbling the football 
25 yards before gaining control and 
scrambling into the endzone for a Star TD.
Beta again drove deep into Stars terri
tory, but John Rollins dropped a pass that 
was a sure touchdown. Schulman for Beta 
got the ball back on an interception, 
BrQgan picked up pass interference on the 
Stars 10 and Cedrone caught a foul while 
running, giving Beta the ball on the oneyard-line with less than a minute in the 
half. They failed to score, and the half 
ended with the Stars leading, 11-8.
Lance Lankford opened the second half 
for Beta, catching a pass for a 40-yard gain, 
only to be caught from behind by 
Scattaregia on the five-yard-line. QB Stu 
Cedrone threw again to Lankford for the 
touchdown.
The All-Stars got into gear again and 
drove to the Beta one on a run by 
McCurley. Betas Stan* Smith dropped 
McCurley for a loss back to the eleven. Bob 
Schulman made a key defensive play as he 
broke up a pass intended for Koshute.
On the next set of plays, Scattaregia 
intercepted a Beta pass for a 17-yard 
touchdown run.
Betas Jim Brogan caught two passes in 
succession to strike again for 6 points.
The Stars next score came on a pass 
from Mike Koshute to Scattaregia, adding
6 more for the Stars.
Beta rolled upfield again, but the Stars 
defense shined as Malone broke up a pass, 
Ralph Tausche dropped Cedrone for a loss, 
and Don Franks knocked down a fourthdown pass.
Koshute killed time with short passes to 
Scattaregia, then Denny OConnell broke 
up a touchdown pass to Scatt to give Beta 
the ball with 20 seconds left.
John Rollins hauled in a pass to reach 
the Stars eight-yard-line. Cedrone
scrambled to the 2. Then, with five seconds 
left in the game, Cedrone threw a pass to 
Stovicek to win the game, 28-24.
The Wild Bunch surpassed PIKA, 24-20, 
in a contest that did not see PIKA get 
started until the second half, where they 
scored 18 points.
John Waites opened the game with a 
28-yard interception return for a touch
down. PIKA could not do anything with 
the ball and had to turn it over on a punt. 
Bunch quarterback Shanahan threw to 
Atkinson for another touchdown.
Tim Taylor pulled in a PIKA pass to 
ignite a drive, but Steve Wood dropped 
Rouch for a 15-yard loss, and the drive 
petered out.
Carl Brown hauled in another Shanahan 
pass, the Bunch led 18-2 at the half.
The Bunch sparked another drive on a 
pass to Atkinson and Carl Brown scored 
the TD.
Rouch got PIKA moving again on a pass 
to Doxsey, but Waites broke up a TD pass 
to Tim Taylor. PIKA turned over the ball, 
but a key play by Taylor stoped the Bunch 
cold.
PIKA exploded as Rouch threw to 
Doxsey for a forty yard touch
down. Tim Taylor scoredon an 
interception, and Rouch threw again 
to Mike Wegener for yet another 
touchdown.
Another Bunch drive saw Carl Brown 
gain twenty yards on a reverse, only to be 
stopped short of the goal by Vic Rogers.
The final PIKA drive was destroyed by 
John Waites, who intercepted a pass from 
Rouch to Taylor. The final again, Bunch 
24, PIKA 20.
Violence was the name of the game as 
PIKA defeated the Wild Bunch, 21-16, in a 
regular season game that was just a 
warm-up for the playoff tilt between the 
two. The Bunch led 14*7 at the half on a 
touchdown by Paul Edwards. PIKA came 
back with scores by Stan Goldman and 
Tim Taylor to take the lead and victory. 
Key interceptions were made by Ed 
Schenk, Mike Wegener and Doug Doxsey. 
Marty Cohen of PIKA received six stitches 
in his ear as a result of a small scuffle.
The unbeaten Coaches All-Stars finished 
their regular season with a forfeit victory 
over Grade A. Beta Theta Pi won similarly 
over Black Magic.
In the first Intermediate semi-final 
contest, Scrow surpassed the slumping 
Purple Gnurples, 20-15. With Jarchow at 
quarterback, Scrow picked apart the Purple 
. defense and scored their three touchdowns 
on long passes, two to Tom Taylor and one 
to Bill Gaffney. The Gnurples, who by the 
1 half had only scored two points, finally got 
on the scoresheet with long passes to Dave 
List and Lee Patch from QB Ray 
Evangelista.
Almost all the scoring took place in the 
first half in the Oakland Dolphins 16-9 
victory over the Gripes. Willy Frantz ran 
for a touchdown for Oakland, then threw a 
scoring pass to Bruce Riddel. The Gripes 
only touchdown came on a toss from 
Flanders to McDenna.
Scrow will meet the Oakland Dolphins 
for the Intermediate title.
The Bearded Clams won the Minor 
League title by defeating the Major League 
P.K.Tators, 13-12, cm a first down with seconds 
left.
The Clams were scheduled to meet the 
PKT B team, who forfeited the 
championship match..
The Bearded Clams finished 6-0 in 
league play, with a 9-0 overall record.
Beta man snares a pass, covered by an All-Star.
Photo by John Rose
Bearded Clams 
Take Title
by Alan Vecchi
The Bearded Clams wrapped up the 
Minor League crown Thursday and in the 
process ran their season record to 9-0. The 
Clams, made up of residents of third 
floor Donner West, who went undefeated 
through the regular season, also rang up 
victories against Intermediate at. Major 
League opponents. The key to Clams 
success was an outstanding passing game 
accompanied by a stiff defense. In league 
play the Clams averaged 32 points on 
offense and gave up a meager 2.
The offense backed heavily upon the 
pass, and had two fine receivers in John 
Stanik and Mike Semon. On the aim of
quarterback Bill Gregg, Stanik and Semon 
ended up tied for the scoring title with 11 
touchdowns apiece.
Defensively, the Clams did not give up a 
touchdown in league play. The main reason 
for the brilliant defense was a defensive 
line that pressured opposing quarterbacks 
into throwing 25 interceptions. Leading 
the Clams in that category was Fred 
Carrera, but it was overall backfield play 
that helped amass that number.
But one thing more than any other 
brought the Clams the title: overall team 
play and spirit. All members of the team 
deserve equal recognition. The Clams are 
now waiting for the Intermediate playoffs 
to end for they would like a shot at the 
Intermediate champ.
World Campus Afloat: Join Us!Sails cadi September ft February.
This is the way you've always wanted 
to learn . . . and should. Combine 
accredited study with a fascinating 
semester of travel to Africa, Austral
asia, the Orient, and the Americas. 
Over 8500 students from 450 colleges 
have already participated. Financial 
aid is available. Write now for free 
catalog:
WCA, Chapman College 
Box 1000, Orange, CA 92666
NEW HILLEL HAPPENINGS 
at Bnai Brith Hillel-Jewish University Center
ROLLER SKATING PARTY
Saturday, November 3
Bus leaves Y-IKC, 315 S. Belief eld Ave.
9:30 p.m.
Cost: $1.00
Call for Reservations by Nov. 1. 
621-8875
JEWISH PHILOSOPHY SERIES
Sunday, November 4 
7:30 p.m.
Speaker: Jonathan Broido, University of Pittsburgh 
Topic: "Can Duty be Reconciled with Happiness? 
Location: Hillel Lounge, 3rd floor, 315 S. Beliefield
ISRAELI AND FOLK DANCING
Every Monday at 7 30 p.m. 
B'nai B'rith Hillel Lounge 
315 S. Belief ield Ave.
621-8875

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 30, 1973
*

DANCE
FOR THE YOUNG AND THE YOUNG AT HEART!
Byrd
I TIMOTHY
AND
DITA BEARD
<t\
hi
ft;
* tarntch aecckskig $yi
0)
I NOV.l - THURS. 8:30-?
*
REFRESHMENTS SERVED
FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CONTACT :
ELMER HARKEMA SOCIAL CHAIRMAN, M.D.C. 682-4732
BRUCE ALPERN SOCIAL CHAIRMAN. U.F.O. 687-3024

