TARJAN
January 18,1977 Volume 77, Number 13 CarnegieMellon University Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213
EPP Becomes Department
by Maris Paul
The Program in Engineering and Pub
lic Policy officially became a department 
when Faculty Senate voted in favor at 
its December meeting. The first new 
department in CIT in over twenty years, 
its administrators feel that the change in 
title is a sign of recognition for a job 
well done.
The new department, launched as a 
program in 1971, currently counsels 93 
undergraduate double-majors in a curricu
lum that requires relinquishment of much 
academic freedom and an overloaded 
course schedule at least twice in the stan
dard four years. All mathematics, 
and engineering curriculum requirements 
of one of the five CIT departments  
Chemical, Civil, Electrical, or Mechani
cal Engineering, or Metallurgy and Mate
rials Science  must be fulfilled, as well
as special Social Analysis requirements, 
E&PAelectives, summer internships, and 
project courses. In return for this 
stringent schedule, the student gains an 
extra attraction, that according to 
I. Barbara Lydon, Assistant Chairman, 
will enable him/her to fulfill industry 
entrance qualifiers as an engineer with 
credentials allowing more rapid advance
ment to positions of greater responsi
bility. Although industry had tended in 
the past to regard public policy students 
as radical environmentalists, they are now 
finding that these students are well pre
pared to meet the challenges of rapidly 
increasing and ever more stringent govern
mental pressures. Although most stu
dents have completed a double major, 
some single EPP degrees have been 
awarded. This promises to continue as 
the department develops.
The E&PA Department (the Depart
ment of Engineering and Public Affairs 
(E&PA) now refers to the undergraduate 
division; EPP is a research-oriented Ph.D. 
program) is related to SUPA in much 
the same way as AMS is to GSIA. The 
Social Relations Department, in the 
College of H&SS, is a humanities oriented 
program, while E&PA is technologically 
based. Both share courses with SUPA; 
project courses required by E&PA are 
cooperative ventures 
E&PA is more an organizing body than
a sponsoring one. It counsels students 
as to courses, and cooperates financially 
with other departments in providing 
faculty, scheduling, and course design. 
Its new status will give greater latitude 
in hiring individuals and greater bar
gaining power.
Drs. Robert Dunlap and Gordon 
Lewis, co-chairmen of E&PA , in an 
article to The American Society for
Engineering Education, spoke of their 
soon-to-be-department:
The decision not to create a sepa
rate department of engineering and
public affairs was based on an impor
tant goal of the program. The pro
ducts of this program must be ade
quately trained in an engineering dis
cipline and must be capable of prac
ticing that discipline. The only viable
way of accomplishing this goal is to 
utilize the strengths of the present
engineering departments......
But it is no secret that the effec
tive life of most programs is short, 
with a major reason for program demise
being organizational status ..... to the
extent that a faculty member allocates 
time to an interdepartmental program 
he has less time to devote to meeting
continued on page 9
Campus Security Tightening
Sherry Siegel
Coinciding with the nation-wide trend 
of a sudden increase in crime on college 
campuses, Carnegie-Mellon Security has 
stepped up its efforts to insure the safety 
of the campus community.
The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette recently re
ported that the number of reported bur
glaries, thefts, robberies and rapes in col
leges across the nation is higher than it was 
ten or fifteen years ago. Though crime is 
on the rise everywhere, it is only recently 
that college campuses have felt this up
surge.
Assistant Director of Security Robert
Pot Expected 
to be Legal
by Maris Paul
A bill proposing to decriminalize the 
personal possession of small quantities of 
marijuana will be placed before the Penn
sylvania Legislature at an upcoming ses
sion. The bill, similar to existing legislation 
in Michigan, provides for 1.) either a 
statewide policy, or, 2.) a means by which 
local governments may decide, via refer
endum, their individual policies in the 
matter.
Although this is far from the first 
posal to decriminalize the use of pot, 
its proponent, Joseph Rhodes, Jr., feels 
that passage at this time is imminent; the 
cropped budgets of law enforcement or
ganizations are causing officials to call for 
relief. The so-called victimless crimes 
such as marijuana usage and prostitution 
are increasing at a great rate, while the 
burdened judicial system throws many 
petty, time-consuming cases out of court 
or eliminates them through plea bar
gaining. Police morale suffers as their time 
is lost, their methods questioned, and 
bureaucratic red tape strangles any attempt 
at enforcement.
Congressman Rhodes, 28, a three-time 
Democratic representative of the 24th 
District (East Liberty), will appreciate 
public support of the bill. He may be 
reached when the legislature reconvenes 
at the Legislative Office Building, Harris
burg, Pa.
Anderegg, coordinater of safety and securi
ty on campus, spoke of measures taken to 
fight this trend:
1) The operation of Morewood Gardens 
Main Desk has been reorganized; it is now 
manned by University employees 24 hours 
a day, 7 days a week. Work-study students 
will man the desk only as mealtime relief 
or in cases of employee illness.
2) Definitive evacuation plans are being 
drawn up for all campus building.
3) Building Security Surveys have been 
taken focusing on door locks, first floor 
windows, and outside lighting.
4) Safety Observation Reports Forms 
have been distributed, and have been re
turned at the rate of 70%. The reports 
focus on potentially dangerous situa
tions.
5)Security has sponsored a number of 
lectures for students about safety and secu
rity.
continued on page 8Mike Corletti, Director of Security
Maddock Chosen Carnival Chairperson
Diana Maddock, Everyone will be involved, not 
just fraternites and sororities.
by Sherry Siegel
Diane Maddock has been chosen by 
Student Senate as chairperson for Spring 
Carnival, which will be held this year on 
April 21, 22 and 23. She is the first 
woman to be Carnival Chairperson.
For those who are unfamiliar with 
Spring Carnival, it is an end-of-the-year 
festival held at CMU, produced and run by 
students. This year, like last year, there 
will be rides, live entertainment, an Arts & 
Crafts fair, fireworks, Buggy, Midway 
booths, and the Scotch n Soda produc
tion.
There will also be some new events, 
designed, according to Maddock, to get 
everybody involved, not just fraternities 
and sororities. Live, outdoor music will 
be increased: Were going to expand our 
entertainment, if we can. Last year was 
the first year that they had live music on 
the showcase during Carnival. Were going 
to try to get close to 20 hours instead of 
10 like last year. Maddock is trying to 
get the group Wild Cherry for the TGIF 
dance that weekend. ROTC may get in
volved with a parachute jump exhibition, 
which, if held, would be on the cut near 
the library.
The prospective list of rides includes the 
Himilayan (a terror ride that never has a 
line waiting for it: its so big it holds as 
many people as do all the other rides com
bined), Bumper Cars, Scrambler, Paratrouper, Radar, Ferris Wheel, and two 
kiddie-rides  the Merry-go-round and 
Umbrella.
Buggy races will be held at 9 a.m., two 
hours later than last year, because this year 
the later time will not cause any conflict 
with the Flower Show at the Phipps Con
servatory.
Balloons and bumper stickers may be 
sold, in addition to Spring Carnival t-shirts.
Diane urges all those interested in 
helping to get in touch with her; there are 
still key positions available (Entranceway, 
Safety, and Entertainment chairpeople 
are needed), and assistants for all the other 
committees are needed, too. Students at 
all levels of interest with any time to 
give are invited to the open meeting 
Wednesday, January 19, at 4:30 in Skibo.

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN
Intolerence
We arc all surrounded by bias and each of us in our own 
way, victims of it. One startling example of this comes from 
a survey of the attitudes of undergraduates toward masters 
students at a nationally ranked business school in Pennsyl
vania, as reported in the Wall Street Journal. Some typical 
responses included: Characterized by a lack of regard for
truth and beauty, and wears double-knit pants.  Or the typi
cal student was described as snotty, essentially feeble
minded and a dull plodder.  However many respondants 
added "But some of my best friends are business students.  
Students at CMU also tend to share such prejudice, not only 
towards business students but to just about anyone who is' 
different from themselves.
The Fine Arts people tend to adopt rather unique life
styles. Dean Midani, in a letter to the TARTAN last year 
insisted that "Puccinis La Boheme  was only an opera, but 
the Bohemian way of life seems appealing to many in that 
college. As a result other students have been observed to 
make gross statements of the type: 'You can always tell
a fine arts student because they dress funny.
CIT MIS people suffer from the stereotype of the nurd. 
He (nurds are almost always male) can be seen walking from 
the computation center back to his dorm room. He's the 
one with a calculator grafted to his hand. With such a physi
cal handicap it is considered impossible for them to be in 
the least bit creative.
H&SS students tend to be treated like the lost generation. 
They are always questioned as to why they would come to 
CMU by others who dont realize that H&SS does indeed 
have some unique programs to offer.
There are definite social barriers between the colieyes 
of the university. Even to outsiders these barriers are 
obvious. The recent report on CMU by the Evaluation Team 
representing the Commission on Higher Education of the 
Middle States Association (see President Cyerts analysis of 
this report on the next page) commented on this, they noted: 
It was a general impression of the team that at times Carnegie-Mellon looked like medieval France .... While there 
seems to be good, frank and free flow of information and co 
operation within any given faculty, the schoools of the uni
versity are extraordinarily 'turf conscious. 
Another sign of problems are the difficulties encountered 
with interdisciplinary programs at the university. Such pro
grams are highly touted. The University's promotional liter
ature emphasizes the interdisciplinary opportunities available. 
But many students complain that such programs are difficult 
if not impossible to schedule. This is symptomatic of a lack 
of cooperation between departments. Admittedly, some of 
the difficulty is possibly caused by a students desire for 
such programs coming late in his college career when he 
recognizes his present major as not being very market
able. But again, this indicates another communication prob
lem.
One of the notable successes of the interdisciplinary pro
grams is the one in Engineering and Public Policy (E&PP). 
However, with the program now being formally organized 
into a sovereign department, we can see yet another example 
of so called "turf consciousness. Hopefully this turf 
building will not damage what has been a very laudable 
program.
The Middle States report, mentioned above, suggests that 
one possible reason for the "turf consciousness is insecurity; 
fear that programs will be discontinued or absorbed into 
other programs. A similar insecurity cm be seen to exist 
among students, but probably not for the same reasons. 
While their futures are indeed uncertain, this uncertainty also 
exists for fundamental things, such as life styles and role 
models to emulate. With doubts about his ability to succeed 
as a scientist, engineer, artist, historian or whatever, the stu
dent may tend to adopt roles, to extremes, of those in their 
field and to disdain other fields. The result is an unfortunate 
bias and prejudice.
Solutions to the problem do not appear to be very obvi
ous. We first must accept the current situation; it is futile to 
deny the problem exists. But hopefully at least an under
standing of and acceptance (in the sense of realizing the 
nature of the problem) of the bias situation can be reached 
and that in turn this will suggest some solutions.
Charles Mitch 
Editor
EPPB ecoEmsDpar
tnCunSir yncTgnP
Jp.
f \ st&r
IKFY- 7
esjeit*!UfJBi Of 
 "?me*?  R.ETEEATS
PEA** B
MPo*. pvpurs
l>0
'----------------------------------------tetiL-MPS 0 WJLTfcA O' op
Letters
An Apology
To Students from India:
I am sure that all here at GSIA, 
and indeed throughout CMU, join 
me in offering our sincere joint 
and several apologies to each Indi
an student with respect to the un
fortunate editorial paragraph in 
todays TARTAN. The remarks in 
the editorial were gross racist ster
eotyping.
The Indian student residents 
here speak and write better Eng
lish than most of the rest of us. 
Your presence here enriches us 
academically, fraternally, and cul
turally.
The few ugly Americans here 
have to got to begin to realize that 
all of us are human beings destin
ed to live close together on this 
tiny spaceship Earth for our re
spective brief lifetimes. They 
should start trying to do so with 
some courtesy, grace and style 
qualities we have always noted the 
Indians to have.
Please accept our apology.
Thomas M. KenHead, A&MS, GSIA
Poor Attitude
Editor:
In my opinion, Dean Kerrs 
attitude of anyone who does not 
like it can go to Pitt, is very 
poor. It is ironic that the head of 
a program designed to teach prob
lem solving (in modern business) 
attacks the problems posed by the 
students by saying get lost. 
Mr. Kerr should start taking the 
observations and advice of the 
students more seriously. The 
collective knowledge of the 
students of the proficiencies and 
inadequacies of their program is at 
least equal to that of the 
administration since the students 
have a unique and different 
perspective. Furthermore, de
fending the program by equating 
it to money, i.e., 14,000 dollars, is 
a weak rationalization as the true 
value of an education cannot be 
measured in monetary terms.
Mr. Kerrs advice to the stu
dents of the A.M.S. department 
that they be patient, advocates 
apathy. No person concerned 
with the time and effort spent in 
the name of education should
merely be patient, especially when 
they are not satisfied.
Name Withheld
Grumbling Bowels
Editor:
Within the grumbling bowels of 
Doherty Hall, a gangreneous ulcer 
of some size has obviously been 
allowed to fester. No relief is plan
ned at present, and the wound is 
growing larger and more malig
nant with each passing week. The 
place to which I refer is Room 
1300, sometimes called the Fresh
man Drawing Room, the studio, 
there, or home. It is a place 
where a group of students known 
as Freshman Architects, The CMU 
Chapter of S&M Inc., or general 
peculiar palace candidates spend a 
vast majority of their days and/or 
nights.
I, myself, do not belong to 
this sacred breed, but was intro
duced to this shrine to misery by 
my roomie, Miss Fanatic. With 
eyes blazing with holy fire and 
brimstone, Miss Fanatic bowed 
me into the room. Though I am 
classed as an engineer and Find
TARTANVolume 76January 13, 1977Volume 77
Editor in Chief: 
Managing Editor: 
Business Manager: 
News Editor: 
Entertainment Editor: 
Folio Editor: 
Sports Editor: 
Photography Editor:
Charles Mitch 
Jim Harper 
Joe Loughran 
Joan Konkle 
Randell Hunt 
David Roussos 
Bob Firm 
Elliot Popowitz
Production Assistants: Q Eddy, Clare Nadorlik . Claudia Clay Carol Dieter
Staff Photographers: Michael Bergman, Rajah Chacko, Bob Cziryak, Tim Fabian, Michael Fryd, Chris Heck, 
Courtney Larson, V. R.V. Ramanan, Ken Ream, Chris Roussi, Fred Shamlian, Susanne Wilson.
Copyright 1976 by the Carnegie -Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit or 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Govern
ment of Carnegie -Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices. Skibo50, (412) 621- 
2600 ext. 656 or 481. Business Offices: Skibo 52; (412) 682-4557. 
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

---------------------------------------------------

View From The Top
From November 14 to 17, 
1976, a team of. ten people from 
various colleges representing the 
Commission of Higher Education 
of the Middle States Association 
of Colleges and Schools visited 
our campus. The purpose of this 
visit was to evaluate CamegieMellon for a reaffirmation of our 
University accreditation by 
Middle States. This accreditation 
is renewed or rejected every 10 
years. Because our reaffirmation 
was not in any real doubt, we 
were able to have a special kind of 
evaluation in which we specified 
the areas we would like to have 
given particular attention: the 
School of Urban and Public 
Affairs and our planning process. 
We chose the School of Urban and 
Public Affairs because it is a rela
tively new school on which we are 
counting strongly for significant 
development and which has a new 
dean. We did not choose the Col
lege of Humanities and Social 
Sciences which is also relatively 
young and also has a new dean 
because we did not think he had 
been in place* long enough for a 
proper analysis. We selected plan
ning because it is an important 
activity to us, on which we spend 
some real effort.
We have recently received the 
final report and have also made a 
response to it as requested. This 
material will now go to the Com
mission on Higher Education, and 
sometime in March the final dec
ision on accreditation will be 
made. The report has been shared 
widely. All the trustees have re
ceived a report along with my re
sponse as will will the Faculty Se
nate and the Student Senate. In
nothing wrong with spartan sur
roundings, I feel that Better 
Homes and Gardens would roll 
over in its mailing tube if it ever 
became cognizant of this place 
where creativity is supposed to 
bud and blossom.
In September, when I first be
came aware of it, the room was 
.whitewashed a bright but some
how dirty white and this, along 
with the lighting combine to bring 
back nostalgic pictures of oldfashioned cellars. Once I furthered 
my view to take in the grimy, pit
ted cheap wooden tables, my 
mind wandered more easily to an 
illegal abortion parlor, circa 1890. 
This may seem a strange analogy 
to one until one notices the bod
ies spread-eagled on top of the 
tables in comatose states.
Since then, things in the draw
ing room have grown a little bet
ter and alot worse. The hole in 
the wall where the pay phone 
used to be has been filled with 
garbage that is now spreading 
across the floor in slow but sure 
waves. The inmates have person
alized the barreness with every
thing from wall graphics to butch
ered Sleeping Bag Campaign pos
ters that ask in large gieen letters, 
Why Dont You Invite a High 
School Kid to Spend the Night? 
The heating is intermittent at best 
and Miss Fanatic has now lost 
three Fingers and a leg to the great 
cause. Also, a bed, stolen from 
some upstairs washroom, now
addition, all deans and depart
ment heads, the Faculty Policy, 
and the Student Policy Commitee 
have received copies. I will try to 
give you some of the major 
points, both complimentary and 
critical, ih this article.
1) The report was highly compli
mentary of the administration, fa
culty, and students of the Univer
sity, particularly the students.
2) The team felt that the Univer
sity had not made the maximum 
opportunity for self-study in pre
paring information for the accre
ditation visit.
3) The team was highly compli
mentary of SUPA. It felt the 
school was successful in acheiving 
its goal of educating students in 
public affairs with a heavy 
emphasis on quantitative analysis.
4) The team felt that the organi
zation of SUPA was somewhat 
awkward since its dean reports to 
the dean of another school 
(GSIA) who is also a provost.
5) The team detected general in
security in SUPA based on a fear 
of being absorbed by GSIA.
6) The team felt that the Univer
sity should make it clear to SUPA 
that, even though they are attem
pting to operate financially on 
their endowment, the University 
would stand ready to assist them 
in the event that they are unable 
to get enough support for incom
ing students.
7) There was some concern that in
graces the corner in stately grunginess.
What worries me most, howev
er is how the room seems to af
flict its inhabitants. It seems that 
if one stays there long enough, 
one crosses that thin and wavering 
line between hereness and 
thereness. A kind of group hys
teria prevails and shopping cart 
safaris in search of penguins in 
the basement of Doherty are not 
uncommon. The ideal of the suf
fering artist is supreme and one is 
judged by how many hours one 
slept last month. One of the most 
frightening things about the room 
is the fact that most of the people 
living a year of their young lives 
there would probably not want it 
changed.
Not knowing whether to call 
Peer Help or the wrecking crew,
I implore your help in this matter.
Miss BLEEP-BLEEP 
ROTC's Apology
Editor:
In reference to the Whiskey 
Raffle advertisement that ap
peared in the 7 Decenber issue of 
the Tartan, the Military Science 
Department desires to state that 
We had no intention of violating 
state laws or university policies 
through the open advertising cam
paign. The cadet organization and 
ROTC Department was unaware 
of the Official CMU Policy against 
on-campus liquor raffles and adSUPA the pressure for sponsored 
research might lead the faculty to 
neglect the students.
8) The team felt that there is too 
much emphasis on quantitative 
analysis in the SUPA curriculum 
and that there should be more 
instruction in executive leader
ship.
9) The team felt that the Engi
neering and Public Policy Program 
jointly offered by CIT and SUPA 
was excellent and should be 
supported and continued.
10) The team felt that the Ph.D. 
program was to unstructured in 
SUPA and that there should be 
at least an indication of the 
technical and methodological 
courses recommended for research 
and the substantive courses 
relevant to a range of general 
areas of potential study.
11) There was some concern on 
the part of the team that the 
SUPA masters students had the 
most difficult schedule; and that 
this schedule left them with 
virtually no time or extra energy 
during their First year.
12) It was also recommended that 
SUPA hire one or more senior 
faculty members and that it make 
greater use of part-time faculty 
members.
13) The team was complimentary 
of the SUPA deans open door 
policy and felt that the students 
were satisfied with it. The Team 
however, noted that there is no 
official faculty Voice in such
vertising of same. The purpose 
behind the raffle was to raise 
funds for the Annual Military Ball 
to be held 18 March 1977.
Robert D. Rivers, 
Mai, En 
APMS
Sexist Movies
Editor:
Last year, a survey taken by 
am AMS student for a marketing 
project indicated that students 
find movies one of the most 
worthwhile acitvities that - are 
funded by the Student Acitivities 
fee. In general, I agree. However, 
Saturday nights showing of The 
Reincarnation of Peter Proud was 
an exception. Movies that foster 
false impressions of womens (or 
mens for that matter!) sexuality 
should not be shown at all, and 
especially not with funds of stu
dents, who are supposed to be 
endowed with some sort of intel
lectual capabilities.
In Reincarnation, there is a 
scene of Marsha, a woman in her 
Fifties, masturbating in a bathtub 
while fantacizing about being 
raped. There was very little doubt 
that despite her horrified pre
tense, she enjoyed the beating. It 
is time that the misconception 
that women enjoy physical abuse 
is put to rest.
In addition, in a scene where 
Peter Proud is looking around in 
an abandonned house, there are 
numerous shots of a females rear 
end that do absolutely nothing
matters as appointments, salary 
increments, and course schedules, 
nor is there  any regular student 
committee to consult with the 
dean or with the associate deans. 
Their conclusion was that 
SUPAs system not only works 
but it works well, and that all par
ticipants are to be congratulated.
14) With respect to the Univer
sitys administration, there should 
be a greater emphasis on the 
development of a formal org
anizational structure, including 
organization charts. Put in ano
ther way, the team felt that we 
should combine formality and 
informality.
15) The team felt that the alloca
tion of resources aspect of Camegie-Mellon planning was excel
lent and accurate. The process was 
well organized, clear and highly 
effective, and the Universitys 
structures would hold against all 
except the most cataclysmic 
shaking.
16) It was recommended that 
the University develop an office 
of data collection and hire more 
staff to develop a better set of 
data for planning.
17) It was recommended that the 
President exercise pressure to 
help colleges articulate themselves 
within the University. The team 
was particularly concerned about 
occasional hostile relations that 
seem to exist between GSIA and 
SUPA.
18) The team was highly compfor the movie. The girl is far from 
subtle in her efforts to get Peter 
to have sex with her. This also has 
nothing to do with the rest of the 
movie.
In fact, only one of the four 
females in the movie was depicted 
favorably. The fourth, Peters girl
friend, was a stereotyped bitchy, 
brainless female. In the future, it 
would be wise for SDC, and othei 
organizations that show films on 
campus, to refrain form showing 
those that are blatantly sexist.
Kassandra Jaunebe
The TARTAN welcomes letters 
from its readers. All letters must 
be signed. Names will be withheld 
upon request.
A Warning to Our Readers
In the November 23, 1976 
issue, the TARTAN carried an ad
vertisement for digital watches by 
Teltronics Ltd. We have since 
learned that the Attorney Gene
ral of Illinois, William J. Scott, 
has filed suit in Circuit Court 
against Teltronics. Scott says, 
100,000 persons may have been 
bilked. He said that complaints 
are pouring in from shoppers who 
paid for bargain-price digital 
watches through the mail but 
received nothing.
The TARTAN regrets any 
difficulties this ad may have 
caused our readers.
limentary of the budgeting pro
cess of the IJniversity.
19) The team was critical of the 
financial support given to Hunt 
Library, but highly complimen
tary of the librarians. The feeling 
is that the University needs to put 
in more funds to bolster up the 
Library, which we have already 
done. The University has recently 
received a $75,000 foundation 
grant for acquisitions for the 
Library. In addition, the admin
istration is contributing $50,000 
over and above the operating bud
get this year for new acquisitions 
and will do the same next year. 
At that time we will reassess 
where we are.
20) The team was complimentary 
about the governance and admin
istration of the University. Its 
main comment was the place 
works; it not only works but is at 
peace. This is essentially a subject 
for congratulations and not crit
icism. They felt that the Univer
sity was singularly free of the 
type of gossip, personal turfing, 
and inflamed nastiness which 
marks far too much of American 
higher education. The governance 
of the institution clearly works. 
They did raise a question as to 
whether the system would work
under financial, political or per
sonal stress.
21) The team felt that while gov
ernance was functioning well that 
it had broken down slightly in 
AMS and that the area needed 
attention and administrative clar
ification.
22) The team also felt that there 
was inadequate attention to the 
undergraduate students despite 
the fact that the undergraduate 
body as a whole is one of the 
boasts of Camegie-Mellon. The 
students are hard-working, intel
ligent, goal-directed, and loyal (to 
a fault) to the University.
23) The team felt that the College 
of Humanities and Social Sciences 
should receive more attention 
from the University and, in partic
ular, that the social sciences 
should be placed in H&SS.
24) The team was highly comp
limentary of the College of Fine 
Arts and felt that the University 
has performed an enormous local 
and, indeed, national service in 
this excellent institution.
25) The team also complimented 
the Division of Student Affairs 
and the C-MAP Program.
On many of the points that I 
have described above I have made 
responses which either indicate 
agreement or explain why the 
teams perception was not com
pletely accurate. I have empha
sized in my response, however, 
that we are pleased with the 
thoroughness of the evaluation 
and the evident understanding of 
our goals and accomplishments. 
I also stressed that we believe that
the net result will be to help us 
improve the University which is 
our primary goal.
Richard M. Cyert
more Letters

---------------------------------------------------

MmANNOUNCEMENTS&.CLAS5IF1EDADS
DEADLINE: NOON WEDNESDAY!
Classified rate: $1.00 for every 15 words. 
Announcements are printed FREE.
general
People interested in performing at Coffee
house, or working on the committee, 
please leave a note at the Skibo info desk. 
Leave your phone no. We will call you.
Thursday Afternoon Luncheon ForumJanuary 20, 12:30 pm. Wherrett Rm. 
Skibo. The weekly Luncheon Forums re
sume this semester. the first program is 
entitled "Economic Projections: America. 
The speaker is Dr. Allan Meltzer. Maurice 
Falk Professor, GSIA.
Ascent of Man Film Series will be present
ed every Tuesday this semester. There will 
be two showings-11:30 & 12:30 in the 
Wherret Rm, Skibo. The first show is Jan 
18-"Lower than the Angels. Next week, 
Jan 25-The Harvest of the Seasons. Only 
an hour for lunch? Bring your lunch to the 
Wherrett Room & enjoy the films with us. 
Free. Sponsored by Campus Program Plan
ning.
Technology and Human Values Program
presents "Environment and Public Regula
tion with Helen O'Bannon, member of 
the Public Utilities Commission of the 
State of Pennsylvania, former associate 
Dean of CIT. Wednesday, Jan. 19 at 7:30 
pm in the Wherrett Room, SKIBO. Freeopen to the public. Sponsored by Campus 
Program Planning and Program in Technol
ogy and Humanities.
The Department of History and Philosophy
Carnegie-Mellon University presents a lec
ture by Rudolph Binion, Leff Professor of 
History, Brandeis University. Topic: 
"Studying Hitler Psychologically: How I 
Wrote Hitler Among the Germans". Tues
day, January 25, 1977 at 8:15 p.m. Breed 
Hall.
Professor Binion is an outstanding psy
chohistorian, author of the widely known 
Frau Lou: Nietzsche's Wayward Disciple 
and of landmark articles on the outbreak 
of World War I and on King Leopold III of 
Belgium.
His recent book on Hitler is distinguish
ed by the startling evidence he has uncoverec and the daring interpretive skill with 
which he has studied data both new and 
previously known.
In particular, he has tried to counter a 
charge often leveled at psychohistory that 
it can deal only with individuals and proves 
useless in the study of social groups.
January 25, 1977 has been announced as
the day for the second Financial Aid 
Forum of this academic year. Mr. Walter 
Cathie, Director of Financial Aid will be 
addressing the University community in re
gard to financial aid for the '77-78 aca
demic year. Many federal regulations have 
changed. The session will prove to be 
quite informative to all attending.
The forum will be held in Skibo Ballroom 
on January 25, 1977 at both 12:30 P.M. 
and 4:30 P.M. All members of the Uni
versity community are invited to attend.
The Department of Modern Languages and
Literatures will administer proficiency tests 
in French, German, Spanish, and Russian 
on Saturday, January 22, 1977, at 10:00
a.m. in the language laboratory (Margaret 
Morrison 310).
Any student may take one of these tests; 
there is no charge. The test takes 95 
minutes.
Students who demonstrate competence at
the intermediate level will satisfy their 
college and/or department requirements in 
a foreign language. (Undergraduate only) 
Students may also take this test in order to 
establish their level of competence in the 
language gained through self-study, study 
abroad, etc., or to determine their level of 
achievement in order to continue further 
study in that language. These tests are 
primarily designed for students who have 
had two years or more of college language 
instruction although this is not a prerequi
site for taking the tests.
Students wishing to take one of these 
tests should sign up in the Modern Lan
guages Department Office, Baker Hall 
232B, before Friday, January 21.
Department of Modern Language and Lit
erature will show the film "Dartmouth In
tensive Language Model" on January 20th 
11:30 in Baker Hall 232F. Free and every
one welcomed. It will illustrate a modern 
intensive way of learning foreign languages.
John P. Crecine, Dean of the College of
Humanities & Social Sciences will have 
open office hours for students, Tuesdays 
from 1:30 to 5:00.
Hebrew will be offered during the spring
semester '77. The courses, Hebrew 82-181, 
82-183 (self-paced and regular instruction), 
of variable units 6-36, will be taught by 
Mrs. Lillian Sigal.
Class meetings are scheduled for TuTh 
9:00-10:30 in room BH 255-A, but the 
time is flexible and subject to change to 
satisfy students' needs.
Assertiveness Training for women and men.
Assertiveness training teaches verbal and 
non-verbal skills for handling uncomfort
able situations in which they feel "put 
down" and which cause them to react in 
self-defeating, passive, aggressive ways. The 
group is neither an encounter group nor a 
rap session, but provides students with 
specific problem-solving skills needed to 
communicate their rights assertively. Focus 
is on concrete assertiveness problems of the 
group members; students are taught how to 
analyze a problem, develop a reasonable 
negociating position and assert themselves 
effectively in real-life situations. The major 
aim is self-improvement in solving interper
sonal problems. Group enrollment is limit
ed. Contact Dr. Pam Freeman, 135B Baker 
Hall, ext. 280.
scholarships awards prizes
CMU students are invited to participate in
GLAMOUR Magazine's 1977 Top Ten Col
lege Women Contest. Young women from 
colleges and universities throughtout the 
country will compete in GLAMOUR'S 
search for ten outstanding students. A 
panel of GLAMOUR editors will select the 
winners on the basis of their solid records 
of achievement in academic studies and/or 
in extracurricular activities on campus or 
in the community.
GLAMOUR'S Top Ten College Women 
Contest has evolved over the past twentyone years along with the changing interests 
and concerns of college women. Ten years 
ago, this was a contest to select the bestdressed on campus, but since 1969 the 
emphasis has been on what college women 
have achieved.
The 1977 Top Ten College Women will be 
featured in GLAMOUR'S August College 
Issue. During April, May or June, the ten 
winners will be invited to New York to
meet the GLAMOUR staff and will receive 
a $500 cash prize.
Anyone who is interested in entering the 
search should contact Ken Service for more 
information. The deadline for submitting 
an application to GLAMOUR is February 
15,1977.
Scholarship available: Delta Delta Delta
Scholarship awarded by the Campus Tri 
Delta chapter. Collegian recipient may be 
awarded $1000 National Scholarship 
Award. All full time undergraduate women 
are eligible to apply. Applications are avail
able at the Financial Aid Office, Dean of 
Students Office, or the Tri Delta chapter.
If you're eligible for your college's workstudy program, there's a new program 
sponsored by the Pennsylvania Department 
of Education that can give you academic 
credit, money and work experience in your 
chosen career field.
It's called REAL, "Relating Experience to 
Academic Learning. Now in operation 
about six months under the PDE's Office 
of Lifelong Leaning, REAL offers students 
internships in public and nonprofit agen
cies. It's available to all expect those in 
nursing, student teaching and religionoriented activities. -
"All colleges are in the program if they 
have federal work-study funds, said C. K. 
Moore, REAL director. State money is 
used to pay half the student's wages. The 
college, using work-study money, pays the 
other half.
Students earn at least the minimum wage, 
now $2.30 an hour, and work at least 10 
hours a week. The college determines how 
much credit to offer for an internship, 
which must cover at least one semester or 
term. Jobs must be associated with the 
student's career goal or aimed at general 
career exploration.
For further information, students should 
see their financial aid officer, college coun
selor or contact Director, REAL Program, 
Pennsylvania Department of Education, 
Box 911, Harrisburgh, Pennsylvania 17126. 
Phone 717-787-9602.
classified
Babysitter wanted Tuesday and Thursday
afternoons. Forbes-Whiteman area. Must be 
reliable. 421-6547
Julie, I'll play with you. Love, Vince.
Girls. .. Are you looking for a summer
counselor position? Applicants are now be
ing considered for the 1977 camp season. 
Must be able to teach one of the following: 
Arts & Crafts Director, Dancing, Theater 
Director, Piano Accompanist and Singing, 
Archery, Tennis, Golf, Trampoline, Gym
nastics, Photography, Cheerleading, Scout
ing and Nature Study, A.R.C. Swimming 
Instructor, Boating, Canoeing, and Water 
Sking Instructor. Write Camp Office, 
138 Woodland Drive, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15228
For Sale: Chest of drawers-$15. Queen Size
double bed, box spring, mattress, and 
metal frame-$50. BSR 3310 Turntable. 
Shure Cartridge $40. Contact Chris 687- 
4265.
Garage Apartment Adjacent Schenley Park.
Rent $65/month + 5hr/wk chores. Utilities 
included. Ownership of car preferred. Dr. 
Schacter 687-9934.
Private Classical Guitar Instruction. 687-
8949
Male, 28, handsome, intelligent. Ph. D. can
didate, seeks mature female, 21-35, for in
timate relationship. Reply: Mark c/o
Tartan.
Self-Defense Training for Women taught by
Feminist Karate Union. Classes begin 1/18. 
276-4527,521-0902.
$200 Weekly Stuffing Envelopes. Already
stamped and addressed. Free supplies. Send 
self-addressed, stamped envelope to: 
Diversified, 1206 Camden Drive, Rich
mond, Virginia 23229
MONTESSORI
Teacher Training Program
APPROVED BY THE 
AMERICAN MONTESSORI SOCIETY
Seventh AERCO Summer Academic 
Program for 8 weeks to be followed 
by a nine month Internship 
Experience. Students will be trained 
in the Montessori philosophy and 
teaching method, child development 
and learning materials for pre-school 
programs. Now at two locations. 
AERCO/lthaca Program conducted on 
the campus of Cornell University 
from June 29 to August 19,1977 and 
AERCO/Phila. Program conducted on 
the campus of Beaver College from 
June 15 to August 5,1977.
For information and brochure, call or write
AERCO Montessori Teacher 
Training Program
1400 East Willow Grove Ave. 
Philadelphia, Pa. 19118 
(215) AD-3-0141-42
IF YOU ARE THINKING 
OF SPENDING 339 
FOR A STEREO SYSTEM, 
THERE ARE 3 CHOICES 
FOR YOU
1  Go to the average audio 
store with good intentions 
and little practical 
experience in the low priced 
field, you'll get something 
that isn't too bad sounding.
*m Go to the nice man who 
sold you your refrigerator 
in that appliance store and 
you'll get a stereo that 
sounds like an appliance.
v* Come to opus one and 
hear a $339 stereo system 
that sounds wonderful 
because it was designed by 
experts with 18 years of 
audio experience, they've 
used a new Advent 
loudspeaker and everybody 
in Pittsburgh knows how 
good Advents are.
Po a demonitrition or 
dMcriptive literatura callopusone
downtown, 400 nMWd 2*14969 
MtoM. pa 57 & flh A J49-NI

---------------------------------------------------

January 18,1977  TARTAN  page 5
Week in Review
by Wendolf Dolson 
and Debbie Rosenkrantz
Several appointees of President-elect
Jimmy Carter are being criticized. A major 
complaint is that too many of his choices 
are home-state friends; for example, six of 
seven recently appointed close assistants 
are Georgians (the other is a woman from 
New York). Former Federal Judge Griffin 
Bell has now faced four days of stiff grilling 
from the Judicial Committee where many 
believe his Civil Rights record is inappro
priate for the next Attorney General. A 
Long Island Newspaper revealed that Theo
dore Sorenson, Carters nominee for Direc
tor of the C.I.A. removed classified docu
ments from the White House to write a 
book about John F. Kennedy then donated 
the papers to the National Archives as a tax 
break. Carter has subsequently reaffirmed 
his support on the grounds that Sorensons 
actions were not uncommon in Washington 
at the time, but Sorensons chances of 
being confirmed are presently question
able at best. Joseph Califano, nominee for 
the position of Secretary of Health, Educa
tion and Welfare said, at his confirmation 
hearing that he opposes the spending of 
federal funds for abortions. [HEW finances 
over 250,000 abortions annually through a 
Medicaid program, but their power to do 
so is currently in question in the Supreme 
Court.] Senator William Proxmire has 
questioned Patricia Roberts Harris, Carters 
choice for Housing and Urban Develop
ment Secretary, because she hasnt any 
housing experience. HUD, he claims, is 
already a shamble due to previous inex
perienced Secretaries. Harris is an activist, 
spokesperson for the poor, the ill-housed, 
and the cities, and is expected to be ap
proved on the basis of her plans for pres
sing housing production and rehabilitation 
programs.
Correspondingly, many designates of 
Carter have met with rapid approval. Com
merce Secretary hopeful Juanita Kreps 
seems almost sure of confirmation; the 
Senate applauded her desire to see ba
lanced economic growth and her interest 
in public works programs. The Foreign 
Relations Committee has expressed its un
animous approval of prospective Secretary 
of State Cyrus Vance. Already approved 
are Defense Secretary Harold Brown and 
Agriculture Secretary Bob Bergland.
Jimmy Carters Plains, Georgia, Bap
tist Church turned down the membership 
bid of Clennon King, a black reverend who 
tried to attend services there a few days 
prior to the November presidential elec
tion. The committee set up to decide the 
issue cited Kings lack of cooperation, the 
50 mile distance of the church from Kings 
home, and Kings lack of response to an 
invitation to meet with the committee. 
King claims he never received the invita
tion.
The Supreme Court said zoning rules
that exclude blacks are not unconstitu
tional unless discriminatory intent is pre
sent. Although all eight judges who partici
pated agreed, three said that they should 
have told a lower court to decide the issue 
using previously set precedences as guide
lines. This ruling may limit the effect of a 
previous Supreme Court ruling that federal 
judges may order public housing built in all 
white communities.
Rejecting Israeli and West German
requests to hold Abu Daoud, a Palestinian 
Liberation Organization official suspected 
of planning the 1972 murder of 11 Israeli 
athletes at the Munich Olympics, a French 
Court released Daoud and sent him to 
Algeria. Daoud admitted that he supplied 
passports to the guerrillas. Observers be
lieve that the decision to free Daoud may 
have been influenced by a pending $1.2 
billion fighter-bomber sale to Egypt. Israel 
has recalled its French ambassador. 
Although the United States expressed dis
may at the action, when France protested 
the comment, a U.S. embassy official said 
it was merely pro forma.
Leaders from 20 Arab nations met last 
week at a two hour meeting that marked 
the beginning of a conference to plan a 
unified strategy for forthcoming talks with 
Europeans. The Secretary General of the 
Arab League says the Arabs expect the 
western countries to pressure Israel into 
withdrawing from occupied lands. So far, 
Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, the United Arab 
Emirates, Qatar and Bahrain have decided 
to subsidize the military efforts of those 
directly involved with the Israeli conflict. 
Egypt, Syria, Jordan and the Palestinian 
Liberation Organization are to receive the 
funds. The maintenance of peace-keeping 
forces in Lebanon and European and Afri
can relations are also on the agenda.
In his third and final state of the Union
address, President Ford claimed that 
America is a more. perfect union than 
when he took office. Ford made no major 
new proposals, but reinforced his former 
support for tax reformation and energy 
independence. Ford said that although the 
defense is strong now, It will require a 
sustained effort over a period of years to 
keep it that way. Ford also complained 
that Congress has obstructed his foreign 
policy efforts. Ford claimed success in 
creating a basis for peace in the Mideast 
and improving relations with China and 
the USSR.
The head of the Seafarers International 
Union testified in front of the Senate Com
merce Committee to the effect that a 
major factor in recent oil spills [there have 
been at least 12 spills of varying degree 
since Dec. 15] is the presence of untrained 
crews aboard tankers sailing under foreign 
flags although owned by large United 
States oil firms. The companies register 
the tankers in Liberia and Panama in an 
effort to avoid American taxes along with 
American Labor and Safety standards. 
Other witnesses claimed that U.S. ships 
arent necessarily safer than foreign ves
sels, citing for evidence the fact that in 
1975, more U.S. merchant ships were lost 
than vessels of seven other maritime 
nations. They also attributed most acci
dents to human error. A study of the 
merchant marine conducted by John 
Leefer showed that among the problems 
on U.S. ships were heavy drinking, emo
tional instability, poor physical condition, 
over-aged crews, and lack of discipline.
_ .. . ?1 40  I 32*  IS
JANUARY20
THURSDAY AFTERNOON LUNCHEON FORUM 12:30 PM Wherrett Room, Skibo
ECONOMIC 
PROJECTIONS:AMERICA
DR ALLAN MELTZER 
Maurice Falk Professor, GSIA. CMU
BRING YOUR LUNCH AND A FRIEND

---------------------------------------------------

Dobro Predicts Active Year for AB
by Robin Mager
The new head of the Activities Board, 
Carrie Dobro, is optimistic about the A. 
B.s success in the coming year. Her con
fidence is based on the development she 
has seen in the organization over the past 
year as coffeehouse director. Dobro feels 
that the boards success comes in part from 
having a better budget to work with, but 
also because of improvements in the com
munications between the organization and 
the student body, and the committees of 
the board being more in tune to one 
another.
In an attempt to get more student feed
back on AB events, questionnaires were 
filled out by students and collected before 
the beginning AB movies. The information 
was then analyzed to determine how stu
dents felt about the events they attended 
and about the Activities Boards perfor
mance. Dobro feels that the survey was an 
adequate reflection of the students feel
ings.
Dobro also feels that the executive di
rectors have enhanced their perfor
mance in the group by bringing in skills 
they have learned from management class
es, and that more frequent contact has 
made board members more sensitive to one 
anothers responsibilities. The structure of 
the organization is such that it is possible 
that a director could be involved in his own 
activities without being aware of the 
others concerns and responsibilities.
Dobro believes that contact outside of 
monthly meetings has made the members 
of the executive board more aware of one 
anothers concerns, and because they were 
not social friends, cliquish behavior did 
not interfere with business.
Coffeehouses and movies have been the
Save $10.00 to $59.90 if you act now.
If youve been thinking about getting a programmable, Texas Instruments has a special offer for you
NOW
SR-56 $109.95*
If you want an incredible slide rule calculator thats 
also programmable, then this is the one for you.
Therere 74 preprogrammed functions and opera
tions. And it has AOS, Tls unique algebraic operating 
system, the underlying reason an SR-56 is so power
ful. Itll let you handle problems with as many as 
9 sets of parentheses. Talk about memory. An SR-56 
has 10 (11 if you count the T-registered.). And you can 
do arithmetic with all of them.
Chances are youll soon discover how really easy 
it is to program. An SR-56 has 100 steps. Six logical 
decision functions. Four levels of subroutines. Dec
rement and skip on zero. Compare a test register 
with the display to make a conditional branch. And 
this is just the beginning.
Think about it. Can you really afford to put off get
ting your SR-56, now?
SR-52 $299.95*
If you want the computer-like power of a card pro
grammable then choose this one.
Techniques like optimization, iteration, data reduc
tion, what-if matrices, mathematical modeling, need 
not tie up your mind  or your time.
But learning to use it is a hassle, you say. Not true. 
Prerecorded programs are gathered into software 
libraries: Electrical Engineering. Math. Statistics. 
Finance. All you need do is load a mag card, press a 
few keys and youll get answers that previously 
required a computer.
You can make your own programs just as easily. 
In just a couple of hours youll begin to 
prove what a powerful asset you have 
right at your fingertips.
And theres not a better time to get an 
SR-52 than right now.
Texas Instruments wll rebate $10.00 of your original SR-56 purchase price when 
you: (1) return this completed coupon including serial number (2) along with your 
completed SR-56 customer Information card (packed in box) and (3) a dated copy 
of proof of your purchase, verifying purchase between Jan. 1 and March 31,1977.
SR-56 Rebate Oiler
P.O. Bn 1210 Richardson Teas 75080
Name ..... -
Address
City.... Stale.......Zip
SR-56 Serial No___________
Please allow 30 days for rebate.
.(from back of calculator)
Electrical Engineering. Statistics. Math. Finance. Choose any two and (1) return 
this completed coupon including serial number along with (2) your completed 
SR-52 serialized customer information card (packed in box) and (3) a dated copy 
of proof of your purchase, verifying purchase between Jan. 20 and March 31,1977.
SR-52 frte software library offer 
P.O. Box 1210 
Richard so, Tens 75080
Name__________________________________________________________
Add ress-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
City---------------------------------.State.-Zip.
. Statistics
. (from back of calculator) 
Finance _____i_EESR-52 Serial No______
_______Math______
Texas Instruments reserves the right to substitute software libraries of equal value, 
based upon availability. Please allow 30 days for delivery.
Offer void wttere prohibited by law. Good in Continental U S only. 
 Suggested real price.
1*77 Texas
PotEx pexcdbLoecx
51_.?P.?ATED65581
most successful events in terms of turnout. 
While turnout for TGIF and special events 
is not bad, Dobro thinks it could be better, 
and hopes that with a better Budget the 
quality of these events will improve. She 
also hopes to keep the other executive di
rectors  in tune with each other. All 
other new executive members have never 
served as executive directors before. 
They will serve in the following capacities: 
Head Carrie Dobro 
CoffeehousesSteve Riddler 
ConcertsDavid Schatz 
Friday FilmsSue Arnstein 
Special EventsSteve Birke 
TGIF Maxine Pearlman 
Thursday FilmsJim Vlasic
Flu Shots 
Stopped
by Joseph Bartnicki
CMU has been participating in the na
tionwide program to provide the popula
tion with swine flu innoculations. How
ever, if you havent received it yet you are 
too late. The $135 million program has 
been suspended because of the high per
centage of those who developed the Guillain-Barre syndrome after being innoculated for swine flu. This paralyzing disease 
was the culmination of a series of setbacks 
which have afflicted the program. It is 
doubtful whether any more shots will be 
given.
At CMU up to one hundred students a 
day were receiving the vaccine at the start 
of the program. This gradually dropped off 
toward the end to about ten to flfteeen a 
day before the semester ended. There are 
many, however, who have not yet been innoculated.
Approximately 20% of American people 
(40 million) have been innoculated. This 
leaves the other 80% open to exposure. Yet 
the program has beeen suspended al
though it has already made its appearance 
in an outbreak at Fort Dix, New Jersey. 
This is the same swine flu which infected a 
half a biliion people worldwide in less 
then two months and killed 20 million in 
1918. It primarily strikes in the 20 to 40 
year old age group, making college students 
among the most susceptable.
Security Hires 
Female Officer
by Sherry Siegel
On December 2, Fran Russ was hired as 
a Security Officier, making her the first 
female on the force since 1973, when a 
woman was hired primarily for traffic con
trol.
Mike Corletti, head of Security, explain
ed that the size of the department is in
creased periodically depending on need, al
though economics do play a part in hiring 
practices.
According to Corletti, Russ has excel
lent qualifications: experience in security 
and police work, and additional training 
in emergency medical aid. He went on to 
say that he is very pleased to have her 
with the department.

---------------------------------------------------

January 18, 1977  TARTAN  page 7
CMU Student Attends Conference Against Racism
by Joseph Bartnicki
Student Senate provided the funds to 
send Rick Edahl, a SUPA student, to at
tend a conference against racism sponsored 
by Boston University on November 19-21. 
The theme of the gathering was No to 
racism, from Boston to South Africa. It 
was attended by about 1,100 students and 
representatives from NAACP, ACLU, Na
tional Students Association, American In
dian Movement, various trade unions, local 
organizations and many more.
The highlight of the Conference was a 
panel which included young activists from 
South Africa. One was Tsietsi Mashini, 
exiled former President of the Student Re
presentative Council in Soweto where over 
a hundred students were killed while pro
testing. Others speakers were Jeff Baqwa, 
leader of the South African Student Organ
ization: Synos Mangazza, Chairperson of 
the Zimbabwe African National Union:
William Booth, a New York Supreme Court 
Justice and President of the Board of the 
American Committee on Africa; Irish Re
volutionist Bernadette Devlin; Clyde Bellacourt, from tne American Indian Move
ment; and Joe Madison, the Executive Sec
retary of the Detroit NAACP.
An interesting occurence, according to 
Edahl, was that, they had to clear out the 
building because of a bomb threat but this 
was an ordinary occurence, except that 
there was no advance notice of it this 
time. The Conference called for nation 
wide protests on March 25-26 against U. S. 
complacency with racist regimes in South 
Africa, Zimbabwe (Rhodesia), and Nambia. 
The date for these protests was chosen to 
commemorate the anniversity of the 
Sharpeville, South Africa, massacre of 
Blacks protesting against apartheid policy. 
March 25 is scheduled to be used for teach
ing and March 26 for rallies and marches.
Now!!
At Morewood Cafeteria
Soft Serve Yogurt
Lunch  Mon.- Fri.
11 a.m. to 1:30 p.m.
Who are you, telling us hew to run our business?
It takes a lot of confidence to come 
fresh out of school and begin telling us 
how to do things.
On the other hand, it takes an un
usual company to provide the kind of 
environment where that can happen, but 
that is exactly the environment you'll find 
at Scott Paper.
We constantly search for people 
who have the ability to respond to chal
lenge and think for themselves, those 
with the initiative and desire to seek al
ternatives, the skill and courage to con
vince others that there are better ways 
and who aren't afraid to express their 
ideas.
At Scott, we admire an aggressive 
stance because we are an aggressive 
company. You can make your own op
portunities with us . . . and well prove it.
* Contact your 
placement office 
for information.SCOTT
an equal opportunity employer, m/f
CMU
student activities
CALENDAR
available at Skibo Information Desk

---------------------------------------------------

page 8 - TARTAN -January 18, 1977
yy 1 y tfV W ------y- VK------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------XV-------LXK^=^KTTTTrXK TtXK---------XK----------X>C
AB CONCERTS 
Presents
MAYNARD FERGUSON 
In Concert
X*
FEBRUARY 11th
FRIDAY  8:00 P.M. 
CARNEGIE MUSIC HALL 
DISCOUNT TICKET SALE 
JANUARY 17th - 21st
$3.50 
with CMU I.D. 
Reserve Seating after 
January 21st $4.00 
at Skibo Information
Desk
PSAC Works 
with Cyert
DOCDUC
I
3KK=J
by Phil Burda
The Presidents Student Advisory 
Committee provides President Cyert with 
insight into the affaiis of Carnegie-Mellon 
University from the students viewpoint, 
and permits him to handle difficulties be
fore they develop into major problems.
The major innovation which seemed to 
bring instant success to the committee was 
the addition of an agenda for each meeting. 
The idea of a student committee to dis
cuss the campus situation with the presi
dent was first tried in 1973-74 and 1974- 
75, but failed due to a lack of a structured 
schedule. The idea was scrapped last year, 
but was resurrected again this year with 
one major change: the agenda.
Before the committee itself meets, Earle 
Swank, Dean of Student Affairs, meets 
with Teresa Bona, Don Simon, and Leslie 
Cox to draw up an agenda for the next 
meeting. This provides structure for the 
meetings, and has been the main reason for 
the Advisory Committees considerable 
success this year.
The Committee meets monthly with 
President Cyert, and is composed mainly of 
student leaders from various organizations. 
It provides an opportunity for President 
Cyert to get student reaction to events on 
campus and to hear how students feel on 
certain issues.
The Advisory Committee, along with 
the Presidents random lunches with stu
dents, the students on the College Council, 
Student Senate, Faculty Committee, 
Trustee Committee, and the relatively easy 
access to the President, Vice-President, and 
Deans, all combine to provide CarnegieMellon students with an excellent channel 
to the Administration, and a personal re
lationship impossible in larger universities.
The Student Advisory Committee has 
had a successful record in its short exis
tence. It discovered deficiency in the li
brary, and President Cyert quickly al
located funds to correct it. It has also pro
vided Cyert with an excellent view of the 
students opinion on the AMS problem.
Students who wish to present a problem 
before the Committee should talk to a 
member of the committee, especially those 
on the agenda council. The agenda is also 
added onto at the Student Senate meet
ings.
The advisory Committee meets every 
month. They are scheduled for February 
17, March 17, and April 21.
Members of the Committee include 
Peter Yacoe, President of Student Govern
ment; Charles Mitch, Editor of the Tar
tan; Sue Keller and Joe Climill, co-directors 
of Peer Help; Cheryl Lawson, President of 
SDC; Don Simon, former Chairman of the 
Student Senate; George Bachner, Com
muter President; Teresa Bona, President of 
UFO; Mark Fox, graduate; Jay Harper, In
tramural Athletics; John Bielich, Varsity 
Athletics; Regina Hopkins, Manager of 
WRCT; and Leslie Cox, of Spirit.
New Department 
Created
continued from page 1
the criteria of evaluation in his depart
ment.
An interdisciplinary method of 
evaluation has been formulated; bud
getary leverage has been employed. 
As a search begins for departmental 
chairman, the major change in E&PA 
will be in recognition.

---------------------------------------------------

January 18, 1977 - TARTAN - page 9
Security Tighteningjazz Concert in Skibo
continued from page 1
Mr. Anderegg expressed ambivalent feel
ings about student involvement in security 
matters: most students are concerned 
about their security on campus, and many 
have expressed the desire to be helpful. 
However, there have been some studentthefts of dormitory equipment, including 
safety equipment, and Mr. Anderegg cited 
these incidents as very unfortunate-that 
equipment is for their own safetyany 
tampering with it is very dangerous.
The number of complaints that Housing 
Director Robert Heath has been receiving 
about Morewood Gardens should be reduc
ed with the new main desk operation ai?d 
the policy of locking the front door at 12
midnight and requiring an ID for entrance.
Often heard complaints concern unwel
come solicitors and the number of strange 
people rooming about Morewood Gardens 
Heath explained that the dorm suffers 
from a heavy flow of unsupervised traffic, 
making Morewood an obvious gathering 
place for various non-student elements. 
Moreover, fowdy behavior in the lounges 
makes students hesitant about spending 
any time in these common areas.
Mr. Heath concluded by saying that 
though there is a certain point at which 
intervention is required, the students 
themselves can do more to alleviate their 
plight in the dorms than anyone else can.
by Wendolf Dolson
The Second Annual Benefit Jazz Con
cert will be held this Wednesday, Jan. 19, 
at 7:30 pjn., in the Skibo Ballroom. Fea
tured will be the Duquense University Jazz 
Ensemble, the University of Pittsburgh 
Jazz Quintet, and the Camegie-Mellon Uni
versity Jazz Ensemble. Tickets, available 
at the main information desk at Skibo or 
at the door, are $2 for adults, but $1 with 
a university ID;-all proceeds will go to the 
Hunt Library music and record fund.
Sponsoring the concert is the local 
chapter of Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia, an 
honorary music fraternity. Last year, they
donated over $1000 worth of records to 
Hunt Library through a previous Jazz Ben
efit Concert and other fund raising activi
ties, including performing American music 
in the Fine Arts Alumni Concert Hall, 
Skibo concerts, providing refreshments at 
Drama productions, and presenting various 
musical and social activities throughout the 
semesters. In addition, the fraternity is 
accepting cash donations and/or records to 
augument the collection in Hunt Library.
ASTONI FLAULE VERSAT, EXTRA REMA
NYB
PER
ThePr
SSIGNIF
EXTRAORDINARY^ 
MARKABLEPOISED NNYwBR ILLI ANTD/' !NGPERFECT.PHt ASTOUND I 7TeachrBRILLI ANTwDAZZL I NGEFFUL.GEN TE X T R AORDI NARYFANTASTI CFASCI NIAT I NGFLAULESSI MPECCABLEM IRA PERFECTPHENOMENALRAVI ing NG.REMARKABLEPOI SEOSPECTACULARVERSATl LEMAGNI FI CENTBEUITCHII
ASTOUNDING 
IMPECCABLE MAGNIFICEFANTASTICr PoomAP R Ri\ib+
POI SEOSPECTACULARVERSAT 
DAZZLINGEFFULGENTEXTRAO PHENOMENALRAVI SHINGREHA 
AUE -1NSPIR1 NGUNCANNYBR I LL I ANTCAZZ MI RACUL0US0UTSTAND I NGPERFECTPHENOf BEUI TCHINGAST0NI SHI NGAST0UNDI NGAU
EFFULGENTEXTRA0RD I NARYF AN TASTI C.FASC 
ENALRAVI SH I NGREM ARK ABLEP01 SEDSPECTACUl. NGPI RI NGUNCANMYBRI LL I ANT.DAZZLI NGEFF c~ni iTCTAMni NGwPERFECTPHENOMENALRAV I SI 
G ASTOUND I NG'AUE-I NSP IRI NG.l ScoIMPECCABLEcoMI RACULOUSa-OUTf 
_AGNI FI CENT'BEUI TCHI NGAST0N 1
TlJanur jTfcfifir|l~i;fi 'I i rWM&lJSlHAZilfd*i Liti E RA
F ASC I NAT I NGFLAULESSI MPECCASLEoMI RACULOUScoOUTSTA SPECTACULAR.VERSAT I LE'MAGNI FI CENTBEUI TCHI NGAST0NI SHI NGwASTOUND I NGAUE-1 NSP IRINGUNCANNYo EFFULGENTwEXTRAORD I NARYFANTAST I CFASC I NAT 1 NGFLAULESSI MPECCABLEM I RACULOUSOUTSTAND I NGI RA>tf SH I NGRE.MARKABLEPO1 SEDSPECTACULARVERSATI LEMAGNI FI CENTBEU I TCHINGASTON I SH I NGAS TOIMPECCAl 
GNIFI Cl NARYFA 
POISED BRILLI ANTDA 
NDINGPERFECTPHL 
G'AST0UND I NGwAlJE -
UNCANI 
OUTST 
ASTON
FLALILESSToIMPFCCA VERSAT J LEoMAGNIFI 
EXT RAORDI NARYFAN 
REMARKABLEoPOI SEDBR I LL I ANT.D AZZL I NGEFFULGENTEXTRAORD INARYFANTASTIUFASCI NAT I NGFLAULESSI MPECCABLEMI RA( PERFECTPHENOMENALRAVI SHINGREMARKABLEPOISEDSPECTACULARVERSAT I LEwMAGNI FI CENTBEUITCHI f>. 
AS TOUND1 NGAUI-> INSP1RI NGUNCANNYBR1 LL I ANTDAZZL I NGFFULGENTEXTRAORD I NARYFANTAST I CFASC I MPECCABLEosM I RACULOUSOUTSTAND I NGPERFECTPHENOMENALRAV I SH I NGREMARKABLEPO I SEDSPECTACUI. 
MAGNI FI CENTBEH IT CH I NGAST0N I SH I NGASTOUND I NGAWE -1N5PIRI NGUNCANNYBR I LL I AN T DAZZL I NGEFI FANTAST I CFASC I NAT I NGFLAULESSI MPECCABLEM I RACULOUSOUTSTAND I NGPERFECTPHENOMENALRAV I SI 
PO I SED SPEC X ACUL ARcoVERS A TI LEMAGNI FI CENTBEUI TCHINGAS TONISH I NGASTOUND 1 NGAUE-1 NSP IRI NGI. DAZZL I NGwEFFULGENT EXTRAORDINARYFANTAST I CFASC I NAT I NGFLAULESSI MPECCABLEMIRACUL0US0UT i PHENOMNALRAVI SHI NGREMARKABLEPOI SEDSPECTACULARVERSATI LEMAGNI FI CENTBEIJI TCHINGASTON 1 
AUE -1 NSP IR1 NGUNCANNYBR I LL I ANT DAZZL I NGEFFULGENTEXTRAORD I NARYFANTAST I CFASC I NAT I NGFL/I NGREMARKABLEP01 SEDSPECTACULARVERSAT 11 BRILLI ANTDAZZL I NGFFULGENTEXTR/' 
ERFEC T PHENOMENAL R AVI SHINGREMAR K 
GAS TOUND 1 NGAUE -1 NSP IRI NGUNC ANN Y^ I MP_FCCABLEMI RACULOUSOUTSTAND I NGISTONI SHINGASTOI 
LALJLESSIMPECCAt 
SAT ILEMAGNIFI Cl 
iEFFULGENTEXTRAORDI NARYF/ VISHINGREMARKABLEP01 SED< 
IRI NGUNCANNYBR I LL I ANTD/ USo>0UTST AND I NGPERFEC TPHi
REM ARK ABLEP01 SEDSPECT ACUL ARVERSAT I LEMAGN IFI CENTBEU I TCH I NGAST0N I SH I NGAS TOUND'I NGAUE 
BR1 LL I ANTwDAZZL I NGEFFULGENTEXTRAORD I NARYFANTAST I CFASC I NAT I NGccFLAULESSH1PECCAByLj^I R'1 r PERFEC T PHEN0I1ENALRAV I SH I NGRE(1ARKABLEP01 SEOSPECTACULARVERSAT I LEMAGNI FI C^lfBW^H I ! AS T OUNDINGAUE-1NSPIRI NGUNCANNYBR I LL IA Funded by Student Activities Fee coEXTRAORO I NAR AM
I MPECCABLEMI RACULOUSOUTSTANDI NGPERFECTPHENOMENALRAVI SHI NGREMARKABLEPO jED*fc^Cl

---------------------------------------------------

ENVIRONMENTANDPUBLIC REGULATION
sponsored by 
Campus Program Planning
and
Program in Technology 
Humanities
graphics
u
is

---------------------------------------------------

ENTERTAINMENT_________BLACKBYRDS:MUSICFORA BAD PARTYby David C. Lucas
The music which fits in the fuzzy 
boundaries of a category called Rhythm 
and Blues is itself broken up into smaller 
categories. One of these subdivisions can be 
called Party Music. At one end of its 
spectrum is jazz-rock fusion popularized 
by the likes of Stanley Clarke and Jeff 
Beck. At the other end is discofled rehash
es of old standards, designed to please gy
rating discothequers.
The driving percussion and bass lines 
which are necessary for danceable music 
are Party Musics prerequisites. Melody, 
variation, harmony, vocals and lyrics come 
later; and in that order.
In the spring of 1974, four music stu
dents from Howard University in Washing
ton, D. G. released a jazz-flavored R & B 
album. The names of both the group and 
album were The Blackbyrds. Kevin 
Toney, Keith Killgo, Joe Hall and Orville 
Saunders were all students of jazz musi
cian Donald Byrd, founder of Howards 
School of Jazz Studies.
The group soon achieved national re
cognition with a song called Walking in 
Rhythm A movie soundtrack (Combread, 
Earl & Me,) and more hit singles followed 
(Happy Music, Rock Creek Park.) The 
Blackbyrds recently released fifth album is 
called Unfinished Business.
This new collection of Party Music tries 
to incorporate all the elements vital to 
good Party Music but succeeds at only the 
first two; beat and melody. As one cut, 
Party Land, suggests, the songs make you 
want to Do it with your hips and hands. 
The tunes are pleasantly hummable. But 
asking the Blackbyrds to give us interesting 
instrumental and vocal arrangements and 
intelligent lyrics seems to be an order they 
cant fill. This is strange, since theyve fill
ed it before.
It<il!
The album begins with Time is Movin. 
The first few chords are extremely promis
ing, but that promise is only fulfilled on an 
interlude which recalls the music of Donald 
Byrd. Both the introduction and interlude 
contain breezy, wordless vocals and the lat
ter has some nice keyboard work. Vocals? 
Forget it. The title is one of the songs two 
lines.
The mistake of beginning the album 
with a song so lackluster would have been 
forgivable if they hadnt put Time is Mov
in back-to-back with another unexciting tune. In Life features some cute tumbleweedy harmonica but suffers from the 
same ailments as the first tune: uninspired, 
pedestrian vocals; uninspired, droning bass; 
uninspired, indistinct guitar; and uninspir
ed, sloppy keyboards.
Youve Got That Something has the 
same characteristics except that female 
voices, snappy horns and a fluid lone flute 
add interest. 
A tune called Enter In fares much bet
ter. The bass line which doesnt work on 
preceeding songs sounds good here. Key
boardist Toney deftly manipulates his in
struments and the brass gives the proper amount of punch. Decent lyrics give the 
Blackbyrds not very noteworthy voices a 
smooth mellowness.
Side Two begins with Party Land, a 
good party song. The cliche party lyrics are 
handled with vigor by soloist Mildred Lane, 
and a female choir, whose animalistic 
noises add to the festive flavor. The ener
getic organ and bass licks seem borrowed 
from reknowned party group, Graham Cen
tral Station. At five minutes and sixteen 
seconds, the length is ideal for dancing and 
almost tolerable for listening.
If the lovely flute solo in Lady was a 
trumpet solo, the song could pass for the 
more recent work of Donald Byrd. The 
piano playing has the strongest Byrd-like
echoes.
The title cut comes at the end of the 
album. Unfinished Business is the only in
strumental and is a superlative piece of 
party music. It has thumping rhythms, 
jumping guitar and snappy tune. The new 
addition to the group, Wesley Jackson, gets 
two well-placed, well done saxophone 
solos, while quests perform a fine honed 
brass arrangement. This song, full of in
strumental texture, is finding its way onto 
the Disco charts. It is unfortunate that Un
finished Business is the only cut which 
doesnt contain giant flaws.
The album is rather disappointing in 
that the diverse R & B styles which graced 
earlier albums have been replaced by indis
tinctive dance tunes. Perhaps on their next 
album, The Blackbyrds will remember that 
variety is the spice of life, and intersperse 
their Party Music with some of the flowing, 
jazz-tinged style they learned in college.
NICKELODEON NOT WORTH DIME
Nickelodeon suffers from silly jokes and 
lack of a sufficiently structured and de
veloped plot. Loosely (and that is the key 
word when discussing the story line), it 
involves Ryan ONeal as Leo Taylor Harrigan, an inept, clumsy lawyer.
Due to a series of misunderstanding, he 
finds himself in the middle of nowhere, 
writing and directing films for Chicago 
based movie mogul Brian Keith. Through 
similarly unexpected circumstances, Burt 
Reynolds, complete with southern accent 
and loud suits, winds up working with 
O'Neal. The isolated band of actors and 
crew they become a part of includes Stella 
Stevens as Marty, the leading lady, and 
John Ritter as cameraman Frank Frank. 
Tatum ONeal is also on hand, again acting 
a little too old for her age and accompa
nied by a somewhat vicious little dog also
named Leo.As the team starts to gel into what
they consider a fairly competent pro
duction company, a passing acquaintance 
of ONeals and Reynolds; newcomer Jane 
Hitchcock, becomes the troupe's new lead
ing lady. If the movie does contain a co
herent story, it seems to reach its climax at 
this point. From here on the characters and 
scenes change in an extremely choppy fash
ion. Stella Stevens, upset because all the 
men are fawning over Hitchcock, leaves the 
group as they decide to break away from 
Keiths organization. Her supposed friends 
show little emotion. Reynolds leaves a 
couple of times, the last of which he is ac
companied by Hitchcock and Ritter, mak
ing it appear as if ONeal will be left with 
only Tatum and her dog for company.
To be fair, the potential for a broad 
comedy does exist in the basic framework 
of Nickelodeon. However, if creating 
another Whats Up, Dock? was indeed what 
Bogdanovich had in mind, he was way off
target. Though there could have been 
amusing possibilities for the supporting 
cast, most of them end up being annoying. 
One example is Mr. Keith, who barks or
ders in a voice so gruff that at times he is 
almost unintelligible. Certainly a low key 
character such as the one played by Austin 
Pendleton in Whats Up, Doc? would have 
been a welcome relief to the overly exag
gerated ones in Nickelodeon.
This is not to imply that Bogdanovich 
was hesitant to borrow from the previous 
movie. On the contrary, he seems to be 
under the impression that what worked 
once will work again, and the similarities 
between the two films are apparent 
ONeals Harrigan is almost as oblivious to 
what takes place around him as his Howard 
Bannister was in Doc?, and the mistaken 
luggage play also turns up in Nickelodeon, 
used to introduce the leads and necessitat
ing their reencounter. Perhaps they are 
most similar in that they each depend on 
an overwhelming amount of slapstic for 
their comedy. However, whereas the 
comedy smoothly ties into the plot of the 
earlier movie, in Nickelodeon the plot 
seems to exist primarily to connect the var
ious pratfalls and scenes of physical humor. 
Many scenes, such as a long drawn out 
fight between ONeal and Reynolds, are 
much too long for the few funny moments
they do produce. The inane plays on names and tired running gags, along with the lack
of story to follow, make it tedious to sit
waiting for the few bright spots.
Nickelodeon is for the bargain matinee 
crowd vdio are looking for someplace to 
rest their feet after a long day of shopping, 
or for those who are content with being 
able to gaze at ONeal and Reynolds for 
some two hours. For those who were ex
pecting a glimmer of the old Bogdanovich 
------wait until next time.
'Tatum O'Neal in Nickelodeon.
by Jeanne Kravanja
Such disappointments as Daisy Miller 
and At Long Last Love have left Peter 
Bogdanovich trying to reestablish himself
as one of Holloywoods leading directors. 
Undoubtedly many of his fans have also 
been waiting for another Paper Moon, but 
his latest offering, Nickelodeon, is not it. 
About filmmakers in the early 1900s,

---------------------------------------------------

NETWORK CAPTURES THE AUDIENCE
50 MINUTES1;;:IlS0NNY * CHE* WORLOP>8gy
TONY ORLANDO ifiMRif
$2!xQG PY RAMIO ^*LTfNS
jCCPJHKS0 *rm
MAN. TOOK MUM
A8C MONDAY NtGfc? MM
TUESDAY
m*sx*wKH
OONNVj
Now!!
At Morewood Cafeteria
Soft Serve Yogurt
Lunch  Mon. - Fri.
11 A.M. to 1:30 P.M.
SMI
SAVI 25% I MORI
g alccMx g ilkodMC
 LANDLUBBER  NOVA
 LEE  RUMBLESEATS
ATWOOD AT FORBB
OAKLAND
by C.R. Childs
Filmmaking isnt exclusively a directors 
nedium, and Paddy Chayefsky proves this 
with his new screenplay, Network. Chay;fsky demonstrates how it is possible to 
create a script so powerful and compelling 
that all of the forces responsible for inter
preting it into the finished product remain 
secondary to the story itself. There are no 
stars, although Faye Dunaway and William 
Holden do perform in it. There is no dis
tinguishable director, although Sidney 
Lumet did direct it. Network serves as a 
vehicle for no one.
Paddy Chayefsky has always had a way 
of keeping directors in their place. He 
does this by gifting them with scripts so 
explicit in their movement, and so solid in 
their structure, that his directors have no 
choice but to trust in the integrity of the 
screenplay.
I must confess to having read a lot of 
advanced press and criticism before re
viewing this film. It was the controversy 
amongst the critics that moved me to see 
the film in the first place. Those that liked 
it, loved it and those that hated it, loathed 
it. The previews I saw seemed to forecast 
a bomb and I didnt want to spend time 
being depressed by shoddy concepts and 
sensational filmmaking. To my surprise, 
I found neither.
Chayefsky transcends sensationalism, 
but stops short of in telle dualizing himself 
out of reach. On the surface, the film 
wants to expose the lethal effects television 
has on the masses, and trite as this premise 
may sound, it is possible to enjoy the 
movie on this level alone.
But Chayefsky is multi-dimensional. 
From the first frame, the arguments pre
sent themselves with such assuredness and 
effrontery that we are never struck with 
the inclination to examine the limitations 
or the lack of maturity of each separate 
argument. Chayefsky seems so secure in 
his rightness that we are able to accept any 
of his intentional distortions of logic.
The film is allegedly centered around a 
network anchorman named Howard Beale. 
After learning that his job is in serious 
jeopardy, due to the low ratings of his 
evening news program, he solemnly 
announces to his public that he intends 
to commit suicide on the air at the be
ginning of the next week. This does won
ders for the ratings, not to mention his 
career. The encouraging response of the 
TV-conditioned public prompts the net
work, the fictitious United Broadcasting 
System, to convince Howard to forego 
his coast-to-coast self-annihilation and 
become the host of the new Howard 
Beale Show. The new program is the 
idea of a callous, ruthless, but supposedly
sensual executive of UBS named Diana Christenson. Its a news program with a
Faye Dunaway as
variety show format and it carries as much 
class as a carnival freak exhibition or a 
daytime game show. She justifies her 
showmanship by intoning the message that 
television is show business and must be 
treated as such. Her idea of good program
ming is to hire a subversive faction, like the 
SLA, to rob a bank and take home-movies 
of the procedures for use on television.
Howard, who slowly shrinks into a 
pitiful mental case, is pushed out every 
night in front of a camera and a studio 
audience to act as a mad prophet de
nouncing the hypocrisy of the times. 
He collapses to the floor in a helpless heap 
at the conclusion of every show and the 
public loves it, although they are as unclear 
about what Howard is saying as he is. 
Howard has gone mad, but the ratings are 
on the upswing.
Howard has nothing to preach except 
vacant drivel, but he expounds it with the 
conviction of a hellfire and brimstone 
evangelist. The public eats it as fast as he 
shovels it into their faces.
The implications of this underlying 
thesis are staggering. Chayefsky portends 
that we are a passive society that is domi
nated by what the screen or the printed 
page doles out in the guise of news. This 
case is stretched to the extreme, but this 
does not minimize the horror of the
Diana Christenson, planning the next season's schedule in Network.
basic premise.
Chayefsky knows no bounds and we 
are manipulated into believing anything 
he tells us from this point on.
Director Sidney Lumet wisely trusted 
his writer to this degree. Lumet handles 
Chayefskys characters with appropriate 
care and appreciation. All of these char
acters are rooted in an amazing conster
nation of nerves. They are dynamic and 
powerful individuals who seem to spend 
most of their time in desperate quests 
of fulfilling their insatiable needs.
Chayefskys characters are extremely 
eloquent. They have to be to deliver 
these words with the ease and finesse they 
command. The dialogue is indeed elevated 
realism. But Chayefsky does this to avoid 
soap opera dialogue in soap opera situ
ations, like when Diana Christensons boy
friend tells his wife that he is leaving her 
for Diana. By doing so, Chayefsky escapes 
the melodramatics soap opera altogether.
Chayefskys language is rash, harsh, and 
always bold. He does not know what a 
euphemism is and neither do his charac
ters. This often leads to seemingly un
called for screaming and shouting. But 
Lumet understands the cadence of the text 
and regulates the characters dynamics 
accordingly. His camera movements and 
the angles he has chosen to shoot at 
serve their function in telling the story. It 
looks as if the camera is always running 
to catch up with the action, lest it should 
miss something. This is a brilliant choice 
on the directors part.
Network is topical and Chayefsky has 
no reservations about including references 
to the attempts on Fords life, Watergate, 
and Patty Hearst. The Communist party 
even plays a role in the story. UBS nego
tiates with them and they join in producing 
The Mao Tse Tung Hour, another one of 
Christensens attempts at showmanship. 
There appears to be no limits as to what a 
network will do to increase ratings, or what 
an audience will fall prey to if it comes
from a certified force.Peter Finch is excellent as the be
leaguered anchorman Howard Beale, and 
William Holden is wonderful as Howards 
best friend and one time boss at UBS, Max 
Schumacher. Chayefsky uses Holdens 
character to represent the ideals of the 
once human America. Schumacher is the 
uncompromising hero who seems to be the 
only one aware of the madness surrounding 
him, yet he is unable to detach himself 
from it. He is much like the George C.
Scott character in Chayefskys 1971 film The Hospital.
Faye Dunaway plays Diana Christensen, 
the heartless but vulnerable product of 
television. She is Chayefskys counter to 
Holdens character. When they team up 
for a middle-aged-man-meets-young-woman 
relationship, the interests are merely carnal 
and its chances for success are slim. Diana 
is not capable of committing herself to a 
spiritual bond. Her human facilities have 
dwindled as her ambition has increased. 
Beatrice Straight and Robert Duvall both 
give fine performances in their rather 
cramped roles.
Network was made for a listening audi
ence, although visually the film is very 
attractive. Swallowing your logic may 
heighten your enjoyment of Network, but 
the film makes an important statement on 
the dehumanization of the masses; a state
ment which cannot be ignored no matter 
how many levels you can find in the film. 
Moviemakers can bum down skyscrapers, 
capsize ships and foist sharks on an unsus
pecting public in hope of making a state
ment on the conditions of mankind. But 
they will have to work a lot harder than 
that to come up with a disaster film of this 
caliber which is as intelligent as it is devas
tating in its argument.

---------------------------------------------------

EVENTSMUSIC
Western Pennsylvania Steelworkers 
Fight Back is presenting Pete Seeger in a 
benefit concert on behalf of Ed Sadlowskis slate. Pete will perform on January 
22nd, at 8:30 p.m., at the Leona Theatre 
on 8th Avenue in Homestead. Tickets are 
$6.00, and are on sale at Kaufmanns, 
Downtown Pittsburgh; Flos Records, 
Steelworkers Fight Back, South Oakland 
Citizens Council, Thomas Merton Center, 
and Garys Millgate Store.
Malcolm Frager, world-acclaimed key
board virtuoso, is guest soloist with the 
Pittsburgh Symphony Chamber Orchestra 
when Donald Johanos conducts the 35- 
member ensemble, made up of first-chair 
players of the Pittsburgh Symphony, in 
Heinz Hall concerts January 38 and 30.
On those dates, to include the Friday 
concert at 8:30 p.m. and both 2:30 p.m. 
and 8 pjm. concerts on Sunday, the 30th, 
the program will include Fragers soloist 
contribution to Mozarts sprightly Piano 
Concerto No. 17 in G major, K.453; also 
Ottorino Respighis Ancient Dances and 
Airs for the Lute, and Richard Strauss 
Moliere-based Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme.
Although the Pittsburgh Symphonys 
season concerts have been sold-out by 
series subscription, tickets are often re
turned to the box office for re-sale. Ticket 
information is available by phoning the 
Heinz Hall Box Office at (412) 281-5000.
of residence, is invited to enter paintings, 
prints, drawings, sculpture, crafts or photo
graphs in the 1977 Festival.
The Festival will be held May 27 
through June 5 in the heart of downtown 
Pittsburgh, Gateway Center. The Festival 
is sponsored by Carnegie Institute and 
grounds are courtesy of the Equitable Life 
Assurance Society of the United States.
Artists will be screened by slides repre
sentative of their work. The screening
ART
For the first time in 18 years the natio
nally known Three Rivers Arts Festival of 
Pittsburgh, Pa., has lifted geographical res
trictions on art entries for 1977.
Any artist, 18 years and over, regardless
Malcolm Frager
committee will be composed of the follow
ing jurors: Lloyd E. Herman, Director,
Ren wick Gallery, Smithsonian Institution 
and Brian N. Rushton, Head of Publica
tions and Marketing Services, Brooklyn 
Museum.
Cash awards totalling $3000 will be 
awarded at the discretion of the jurors. 
Purchase awards up to $1000 will be made 
by Pittsburgh corporations throughout the 
ten days of the Festival.
Entry forms with full details on Festival 
rules, slides, etc. are now available. Please 
send a return address and 24 cents in 
stamps to Three Rivers Arts Festival, 4'
NEED EXTRA 
MONEY????
If you are a healthy MALE, age 20-30, 150-100 pounds. 
Volunteers are needed for Bioavailability Testing 
Program on absorption rates of prescription 
medications. All Studies are conducted under struct 
medical supervision.
 Program involves small blood samples drawn 
at various times throughout the study.
 Physical exams will be given in Room 335,
Hotel Webster Hall
... Each Wednesday, 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
(No lunch4 hour fast, water only)
... Each Thursday, 9 a.m. to 11 a.m.
(No breakfastfast, water only)
NEW volunteers will be given $10 for taking our 
physical exam, including complete blood chemistries. 
Pay scale ranges from $50-500, depending upon 
requirements of the study.
For Complete Details, Please Call
Biodecision Laboratories, Inc.
Room 335, Webster Hall, 4415 Fifth Avenue 
682-2022
Or Come directly to the Physical Exam 
(PLEASE BRING PROOF OF AGE)
Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213. 
Completed forms and slides must be re
turned, postmarked no later than April 1, 
1977.
The Three Rivers Arts Festival is a 10 
day celebration of the arts, all the arts.
Set against a backdrop of skyscrapers, 
the Festival splashes across 10 acres of 
plaza areas, exhibiting all types of arts and 
crafts and offering continuous performan
ces of music, theater and dance. In one 
corner of the Festival, art activities and 
performances are geared for young people, 
while people of all ages are invited to par
ticipate in craft, theater and dance work
shops.
It is a Festival for all people, for fun 
and for free.
Beginning on January 8 and continuing 
through January 22, Kingpitcher Gallery 
will present a group exhibition of paintings 
and drawings. Artists represented in this 
collection of unique works include Larry 
Brown, former assistant professor of art 
at the University of Pittsburgh now living 
in New York; Dennis Farber, a painter 
from Topanga, California; Barbara Bern
stein, a recent graduate of the Rhode Is
land School of Design
For further information please contact 
the Kingpitcher; gallery hours are 11:00 
to 5:00, Tuesday through Saturday.
MISC.
Puppets, joined by actors, dazzling costumery and magical lighting effects, bring 
fun and evoke human insights in the Love
lace Theaters Premiere Season at the 
Museum of Art Theater, Scaife Gallery, 
Carnegie Institute opening February 19.
The Lovelace Theaters internationally 
noted puppet plays have hypnotized a 
broad but specially sensitive audience, 
from school-age youngsters to cosmopo
litan adults during its 23-year history.
First, premiering February 19 will be 
the Lovelace Theaters premiere produc
tion of Ragtime & All That Jazz, 
blending a broad range of 20th century 
jazz styles with a sequence of human ten
dencies reflected in or explored by the 
puppet-actors and music ... with slide pro
jections and many other theatrical sur
prises.
Second production in the repertoire will 
be a new stage adaptation of Molieres 
witty and satirical classic, Loves the Best 
Doctor.
Tickets are now available by series sub
scription only. Reserve seats by phoning 
(412)3614835.
The Pittsburgh Opera will present 
Bedrich Smetanas world-recognized comic 
masterpiece, The Bartered Bride, on Janu
ary 27 and 29 at Heinz Hall at 8:15 pjn. 
This best of Smetanas eight operas is truly 
a classical work that depicts the Czech 
national spirit. The music dispenses joy 
pure and unsophisticated and speaks warm
ly from the heart.
This light-hearted and frolicsome pro
duction will be followed by Faust on 
March 10 and 12, Co si Fan Tutte on March 
31 and April 2 and Rigoletto on April 21 
and 23.
Information and ticket reservations can 
be obtained by calling the Pittsburgh Opera 
at 281-0912.
The Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre has an
nounced the cast for their upcoming 
program at Heinz Hall on January 21, 22 & 
23. Pas de Dix, the popular Balanchine 
favorite has been added to the ambitious 
porgram of Petrouchka, Spectre de la 
Rose, and Fantasia.
Tickets are still available for the per-* 
formances on January 21, 22 at 8:00 pjn. 
and January 23 at 2:30 pjn. and may be 
purchased at Heinz Hall or by calling 218- 
0360.
ACTIVITIES BOARD 
FILMS
Admission to Thursday 
and Friday films will be 75<t 
with a CMU I.D.
$1.00 without
iP
t
1 1 n
9 1 1 %9a a a a i I  a a aS3 Thursday Film Passes are now on sale 
at Skibo Information Desk for 
|| $6.00 at a saving of $5.25 for the en8 tire series. i $ 
i
s\
$$%p$
t
&
s$
IpSi%i

---------------------------------------------------

STORY OF RISING AND FALLING STARS
SECOND ANNUAL 
BENEFIT JAZZ CONCERT
January 19, 1977 
Skibo Ballroom 
7:30 P.M.
FQOturinQ r Duquesne University Jazz Ensemble 
University of Pittsburgh Jazz Quintet 
Carnegie-Mellon University Jazz Ensemble
TICKETS CAN BE OBTAINED AT THE SKIBO INFO DESK 
$2.00/adult  $1.00 / with CollegeJD
ALL PROCEEDS GO TO THE HUNT LIBRARY MUSIC AND RECORDING 
FUND. DONATIONS (besides Ticket fee) AND OLD RECORDS 
GREATLY APPRECIATED TO ENHANCE OUR LIBRARY'S COLLEC
TION.
SPONSORED BY THE HONORARY MUSIC FRATERNITY: PHI MU 
ALPHA SINFONIA/ALPHA OMEGA CHAPTER, WITH HELP FROM THE 
CAMPUS COMMUNITY.
by Russ Militello
I want everything, everything purrs 
Esther Hoffman when she first appears in 
A Star Is Born. She is a nightclub singer 
and is part of the group known as The 
Oreos (shes the creamy white filling). 
On one particular evening, alcoholic, 
burned out superstar John Norman 
Howard happens to stumble (literally) 
into the bar in time to hear Esther singing 
her I Want Everything song and he is so 
impressed that he falls in love with her and 
decides to help her career along so she can 
have everything. They get married and 
as time progresses his career takes its 
plunge while she is transformed into a 
star. After a while he is completely lost in 
her shadow and drives himself to destruc
tion through drugs and alcohol. She is left 
alone, slightly insecure, and afraid to go 
on without him. But, being the superstar 
that she is, she resumes her career, realizing 
that it would be the greatest tribute to her 
husband, and sings two of his songs at her 
comeback concert.
Thus goes the story of the 1976 version 
of A Star Is Born, starring Barbra Streisand 
and Kris Kristofferson. It is an upbeat, 
fairly fast-paced insight into the world of 
rock music in the 70s. The movie starts 
out rather slowly, dwelling on Kristoffer
son for the first fifteen minutes before we 
get to see Streisand. From then on the 
movie goes uphill (having no where else to 
go) hitting very few snags along the way. 
The final minutes, belonging completely to 
Streisand, are the most enjoyable in the 
movie and the best performed in any movie 
for a long time.
Performances, being one of the stronger 
points of this movie, are generally above 
average. The supporting characters are 
especially outstanding. In roles that could 
easily be stereotyped, the actors bring 
freshness and uniqueness to their charac
terizations. Particularly outstanding were 
Gary Busey as the manager and Joanne 
Linvilles portrayal of the secretary.
Kris Kristofferson looks like hes trying 
to prove that he doesnt belong in the
Barbra Streisand is, as always, Barbra 
Streisand, and A Star Is Bom shows her 
off to her fullest. It is obvious that the 
script was written especially for her (shes 
the executive poducer and in charge of 
musical concepts). Since Funny Girl 
was released ten years ago, she has had 
little opportunity to show her versatility 
and power of characterization. Although 
there are some moments which are stongly 
reminiscent of the Fanny Brice movies 
Funny Girl and Funny Lady they pass 
quickly and do not interfere in the flow 
of the movie.
The songs in the movie are not par
ticularly outstanding as a whole, but there 
are a few very good ones and they were 
written by some of the best songwriters 
in the business  Paul Williams, Marilyn 
and Alan Bergman, Rupert Holmes, and 
Streisand and Kristofferson also contri
bute their talents. Being a rock music 
movie, there are very few of the smooth 
ballads that Streisand handles so exqui
sitely. Two particularly pretty ones are 
Evergreen (which she wrote the music 
to) and I Want Everything. The numer
ous rock songs in Star are basically 
mediocre, with the two exceptions, Queen 
Bee and I Believe in Love. Unlike the 
others, these two seem to be written 
especially with Barbra Streisand in mind. 
Kristoffersons song Hellacious Acres is 
also not very good, but it makes use of 
fright masks and camp and is entertaining, 
if only for its humor.
This is the third remake of A Star Is 
Born, but the Streisand-Kristofferson 
version can stand on its own merits. Not 
necessarily because it is an outstanding 
achievement, which it isnt, but because 
it is a very good, entertaining motion 
picture.
.1 IIWSEARCH 77
co IULrll I g
co _______________r______ _ __o m 3J
cn
We'd Like To Discover You! I
Tech Interviews 1:00, Auditions 2:00 
9 YOUNGSTOWN AREA WED., FEB. 2 w
 HOLIDAY INN ^
9694 MAHONING - NORTH JACKSON B
I PITTSBURGH AREA  THURS., FEB. 3 
t/i HOWARD JOHNSON'S MOTOR LODGE 
TPK. EXIT 6/RT. 22- MONROEVILLE
BROWN DERBY INN
419 626 0830
(Open only to registered college students 
and graduating high school seniors)
< AKRON/CLEVELAND AREA -FRI., FEB. 4 >
 EXIT 12/ RT. 8  HUDSON
< COLUMBUS AREA SUN., FEB 6 I
03 SHERATON MOTOR INN NORTH 12
RT. 161/1-71 -COLUMBUS 2 ALSO AT CEDAR POINT m
< SAT., FEB. 5, SUN., FEB 13 c/>
>
5 FOR OTHER AUDITION SITES
< AND FURTHER INFORMATION g
y CONTACT 0
3} LIVE ENTERTAINMENT DEPT. O
CEDAR POINT, INC. >
SANDUSKY, OHIO 44870 ^
SINGERS MUSICIANS TECHNICIANS
Above, Barbra Streisand as young Esther Hoffmann waiting for her big break. Below, Streisand 
watches her husband commit suicide. Also, a peaceful horseback ride with her husband John
Howard (Kris Kristofferson).
movies. If he keeps it up, he may con
vince us. His singing is gravelly and 
strained. Vocally, he is a thorn among 
roses, but his acting is better than his 
singing. He doesnt possess Streisands 
magnetism or
somewhat dependent on her to keep the 
movie going. His acting style is most effec
tive in action scenes, as he exhibits in his 
final moments on the screen when his 
performance gains momentum. He 
closing minutes.

---------------------------------------------------

January 18, 1977 - TARTAN - page 15
Steelworkers Fight Back Presents
PETIPETE SEEGER
Jan. 22, 8:30 p.m.
Leona Theater 
8 th Ave. Homestead
For Information Call 
461-2045
CONCERT FOR
ED SADLOWSKIS U.S.W. CAMPAIGN 
Adm.S6,Tickets on sale at:
Steelworkers Fight Back - 119 East 8 th Avenue , Homestead 
South Oakland CitizensCouncil -Ward Street,Oakland 
Thomas Merton Center - East Carson Street, South Side 
Garys Millgate Store-Maple Avenue, Clairton 
Flos Records -116 Bouquet Street,Oakland 
Kaufmanns Downtown
8:00p.m.Skibo Room 39
The First Epistle 
of Peter
SUNDAY MASSES:
7*00 PJA. Saturday Evening
Tech House: 5125 Margaret Morrison
10:30 AJA. Science Hall 
Room 7500
DAILY MASSES:
12:30 Noontime: Monday through Friday
Skibo Room 39
University Oratory of the Holy Spirit Parish 
CMU Campus - Fr. Bob English 
4040 Bigelow Blvd. Pittsburgh. Pa. 15213 
681-3181
OPEN MEETING 
of
AB CONCERT 
COMMITTEE
Wednesday, January 19th 
(Tomorrow) 
At 7:30 p.m. 
ROOM 33 SKIBO 
   
Spring Semester Concert Plans 
Will Be Discussed
Coming
FOOD SERVICE 
SPECIAL EVENT
Vegetarian Buffet
Thursday, Jan. 27
Dinner - Kiltie Coffee House
Free to Contract Holders or $2.75 cash 
For Reservations Call Ext. 653 or 654

---------------------------------------------------

page 16- TARTAN -January 18, 1977
KARATE
CMU KARATE CLUB BEGINNERS CLASSES
START THURSDAY, JANUARY 20
At 6:00 P.M.
GENERAL MEETINGS
Tuesdays & Thursdays  6:30-8:30 p.m. 
Saturdays  11:30 a.m. - 1:30 p.m.
BEGINNERS COME HALF AN HOUR EARLY
ALL ARE WELCOME
Check campus notices
for more information

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTSHOOP WIN STREAK REACHES 5
Coach Dave Maloney has the Tartans off to their best start in years.
by Bob Finn
Freshmen reserve Mariano DeFilippo 
canned a 25 foot bomb and a free throw 
for a three point play with 3:29 left in 
the game to give Camegie-Mellon the lead 
to stay at Allegheny to spark the Tartans 
to a 71-68 victory. The exciting contest 
saw seven ties and 15 lead changes.
CMU had seemingly gained control of 
the see-saw affair midway through the 
second half when they ran off five unan
swered hoops. Les Harper, who was a 
dominant force on the boards the second
half, hit three of the buckets during that 
stretch to give Tech its largest lead of the 
night, 57-50 with 11 minutes to play.
However, Allegheny came back on two 
long range goals by Craig Jones and took 
the lead on a score by John Webb under
neath with less than six minutes remain
ing, 62-60.
Marty Costa hit a turnaround jumper 
for two of his 15 points to knot the game 
at the 4:05 mark. DiFilippo then sank 
his key shot.
Eric Lindberg, a 68 freshman, scored 
inside to cut the margin to one. Lindberg 
had an outstanding evening, scoring 23
points and grabbing 20 rebounds. Costa 
put the Tartans up by three again with a 
hoop with two minutes left.
After the Gators missed the next time 
on the floor, Coach Dave Maloney had the 
Tartans go into their four comers of 
offense. CMU ate 30 seconds off the 
clock before finding Harper inside for 
an easy layup.
Allegheny missed in their haste to 
shoot, but tied up CMU for a jump ball. 
The hosts controlled the tap and again 
failed to score. George Harvey pulled 
down the bound and was immediately 
fouled. He coolly flipped in both ends 
of a 1-1 to give CMU a 71-64 advantage 
with 51 ticks left on the clock. Lindberg 
tipped in a rebound with 40 seconds to 
go to give the Gators some hope.
DiFilippo was fouled in the back court 
but could not connect on the 1-1. Alleg
heny missed again and Larry DiCicco 
hauled in one of his 11 rebounds. He 
was fouled but missed the free throw. 
Allegheny finally got a hoop by Lind
berg after a couple of chances, but it was 
too little, too late as the final stood CMU 
71  Allegheny 68.
Allegheny, playing without the services 
of three year letterman Marty Orzechowski, started out in a Triangle and 1 
defense with Jim Wheeler shadowing 
Harvey in an attempt to slow down CMU. 
Ralph DeaBrunzzo came in to help with 
the point guard chores.
He and DiCicco destroyed the plan of 
shutting down CMU by holding Harvey in
check as they drove the point defensive 
guard crazy with tremendous outside 
shooting. The Tartans shot 58% in the 
first half to counter the tall Gators reboun
ding strength.
After DeaBrunzzo and DiCicco drove 
the hosts out of their trick defense, Harvey 
went to work on the man to man style of 
defense. He scored almost at will and led 
all CMU scorers with 19. Three other 
Tartans scored in double figures in the 
balanced attack. Costa fired for 15, Har
per added 12, and DiCicco scored 10. 
Ralph Hopkins aided Lindberg in the Alleg
heny attack with 12.
The win was the fifth in a row for the 
Tartans and gave them a record of 7-2 
overall and 2-0 in the Presidents Athletic 
Conference. The sevens wins represent 
more triumphs than was attained all of 
last season.
Camegie-Mellon extended their winning 
streak to Tour in a row and started their 
assault on the Presidents Athletic Con
ference title with an impressive 71-46 vic
tory over visiting Washington & Jefferson. 
The game was about as exciting as 
watching Astroturf grow because the ob
viously outmanned Prexies tried a slow 
slowdown to stop the Tartans.
W&Js patient pattern play threw CMU 
off stride at the games outset. The visi
tors raced to an early 7-2 lead before the 
Tartans started applying the pressure.
Two quick hoops by George Harvey and 
Marty Costa following W&J turnovers procontinued on page nineteen
IM- B-Ball StartsCAGE CLASH SET
by Mike Pochan
The battle for the major league basket
ball championships in the IM leagues 
should be a close one as a majority of last 
years top players and teams are returning 
to the courts.
ATO will defend its championship with 
essentially the same team. Theyre led by 
Rich Marusic, last seasons MVP and the 
leagues fourth leading scorer. Jay Du
quette and Frank Massaro provide more re
turning strength. The joy boys could only 
have improved since last year.
SAE, the Cinderella team of 1976, 
shows three of last years top ten scorers in 
its starting lineup with Terry Hanna, Jim 
Schiffman, and Dave Chandler. A year of 
maturity may make all the difference.
The Celtics, coached by the Wizard of 
Morewood Bob Firm, have the potential 
to cause some trouble with former varsity 
starter Harry Hotimsky, 65 Roy Parker, 
John Muse, and Kevin Fitzgerald.
Reality, whose roster includes many 
players from last years runners-up Black 
Heat, could surprise some people. Bill Boy
kins and Winston Thomas, two former var
sity performers, and Leroy Harris head the 
squad.
Katoosh, intermediate runners-up for 
the past two seasons, steps into the majors 
this year. Mark Sherwin, Dave Schwartz, 
and some outstanding freshmen should 
make them a strong entry.
The High Flying Kites are Phi Kaps with 
former varsity star Dan Jason added on. 
Look for a tough team now that height has 
been added.
Pika returns with many veterans that 
should make them very competitive again.
Beta may have the tallest team out on 
the floor this year with John Fischer and 
Gary Burner leading the offense.
GSIA always has a couple excellent 
shooters and rebounders. They seem to im
prove the longer they play together.
The Nerd Knockers are a bunch of con
fident freshmen who might shock everyone
or get taught a lesson.
ZBT-A and SUPA-Stars are fielding 
majors team for the first time so no com
ment is available.
A pre-season prediction was put forth 
without difficulty by Bob Firm, Any 
team I coach wins.
IM basketball set an all-time record for 
participation with 78 teams. This is up 
from last seasons 65. Because of the large 
number of teams, games will be played on 
Saturday and Sunday.
CORRECTION TO IM SCHEDULE
Add to the Pioneers Division No. 8 SYZ 
and to the Friars Division No. 8 Bananas-A.
Carnegie-Mellon collides with one of 
their chief competitors for the Presidents 
Athletic Conference crown this Saturday at 
2:00 pjn. when they take on the Hiram 
Terriers at Skibo Gym. Hiram is the 
defending PAC champ.
The Ohio school will bring a talented 
squad to Pittsburgh to face the Tartans. 
All five starters of last seasons team are 
back again this year. -
Hiram features strength at the guard 
positions in the persons of Emie Pasqualone and Tony Bolden. Pasqualone is a 
fine outside shooter while Bolden is a 
speedster who runs the fast break well. 
Much of Hirams success is the running
game, made possible by strong rebounding. 
The starting front line of Ed Niehaus, 
Ted McDivitt, and Kevin Chambers do 
most of the boarding.
Hiram is one of the best teams in the 
PAC year after year and again appears to 
be a top contender for the title.
In a preliminary to the CMU-Hiram 
clash, the Tartan JVs meet the Pitt JVs 
at 12 noon. In an earlier encounter 
between the two junior varsity squads, 
CMU destroyed That School Down The 
Street, 97-72.
A large crowd is expected for what 
promises to be an exciting afternoon of 
college basketball.
Let Amiy ROTC take you whereyou >vant to go.
Get the leadership development that is invaluable to any career you choose Develop your career 
where you shoulder greater responsibilities far earlier than most college graduates If youre interested in any 
of the career fields listed below, then we are interested in you. Check your interests and mail to
ARMY ROTC Maior Rivers
Gym 203 
621-2600 Ext 281/2
Name.
Address..Phone.
City.State.
? Freshman ? Sophomore ? Junior ? Senior
Zip.
? Air Defense? Armament MaterielManagement
? Armor
? Atomic Energy
? Automatic DataProcessing? Audio-Visual Instructional
Technology? Aviation MaterielManagement
? Chemical? Club Management? Combat CommunicationsElectronics? Communications/Elec
tronics Engineering
? Communications/Elec-i
tronics Materiel ^ Management
? Comptroller
? Counterintelligence/Human Intelligence
? Cryptology? Education? Engineer
? Field Artillery
? Finance
? Fixed Telecommunica
tions Systems? Food Management
? Foreign Area Officer
? General Troop SupportMateriel Management
? Highway and RailOperations
? Infantry? Information
? Logistics Management
? Logistics ServicesManagement
? Maintenance Management
? Marine and Terminal
Operations? Missile MaterielManagement
? Munitions MaterielManagement
(S^AnjtyROTC. Learn what it takes to lead.
? Operations and Force
Development
? Operations Research/Sys
tems Analysis
? Personnel Admini
strations
? Personnel Management
? POL (Petroleum
Management)
? Procurement
? Research and Development
? Supply Management
? Tactical/Strategic
Intelligence
? Tank and Ground Mobil
ity Materiel ManageTraff ic Management Transportation Manage---------------------------------------------------

DUKES ICED BY CMU PUCKSTERS
The Camegie-Mellon hockey Tartans be
gan what the team expects to be an excel
lent league season by knocking off rival 
Duquesne University at the Civic Arena on 
Saturday by the score of 3-2. The game 
featured outstanding offensive play on the 
part of all six starting forwards: Tom
Grimm, Mark Jonnatti, Rick Smith, Ken 
Trumpfeller, Matt Maddalea, and Bob Hon. 
These six forwards bombarded Duquesnes 
goalie Eric Sutliff with 38 shots from 
within 20 feet.
The defensive play was also immensely 
improved over previous efforts, allowing 
only 28 shots to get through to goalie 
Don Jacobson.
From the outset of the game, the Tar
tans dominated play. Most of the first 
period CMU spent in Duquesne end of 
the ice, outshooting them 16-6. Unfor
tunately one of the Dukes shots managed 
to get by Jacobson, who had been decoyed 
out of the net by a screened shot from the 
point. Also, despite all of the close shots, 
CMU couldnt get any by the Duquesne 
goalie .in the early going. The Tartans 
finally got on the board at the 13:35 mark 
of the first period on a goal by Trump-Swimmers Torpedoed At Hiramby Diane Maddock
The Carnegie-Mellon swim team traveled 
to Hiram College on Saturday for their first 
Presidents Athletic Conference meet. Al
though the team got off to a slow start, 
they finished respectively with the score of 
61-51 in favor of Hiram.
It was not until the fourth race in the 
50 yard free style that Pete Dickey cap
tured CMlFs first place. The team 
acquired four more first places, but that 
was not enough to take the lead away from 
Hiram.
CMUs other first places included Joe 
Dickeys double in the 200 yard individual 
medley and the 200 yard backstroke, Trek 
Wallace in diving, and the 400 yard free
style relay team of Coleman, P. Dickey, 
Bayeb, and Dittman.
Coach Donna Pecman stressed that the 
team is building in strength which cannot 
be accomplished in only one short season. 
When asked to comment on the high point 
of the meet, some responses were: the
meal, arriving home, Tonys bath in the 
snow, and Donnas great aim with a snow
ball.
Several new swimmers, who have added 
depth and diversity to the team, are a wel
come addition. They are Gene Mondco, 
Tom Gerlowski, Diedra Miller, Dave Walterson, Trek Wallace, Steve Liss, and 
Janice Uber.
Next weeks meet is at home against 
Washington & Jefferson at 2:00 p.m. on 
Saturday.
GIRLS PLAY
by (Jordon Morrison 
The Camegie-Mellon University 
Womens basketball team played in their 
first annual Blue-White intra-squad game 
on Sunday morning with the White team 
winning 55-20. All thirteen players that 
were able to participate were very impres
sive in their ability to move the ball around 
and find the open people for the shot. 
Also, everyone seemed to adapt quickly to 
changes by the other team. The team 
opens their season on Wednesday with a 
practice game at 5:00 and the regular 
season opener on Thursday at 7:00 against 
Seton Hill. Both games are home.
Family brewers for more than 200 years.
THE STKOH BREWERY COMPANY, DETROIT, MICHIGAN  1976
feller, assisted by Skip Wallace and Hon.
The beginning of the second period 
found CMU firing shots from all angles 
(20 total). The Tartans took the lead 
2-1 on a goal by Jonnatti at 2:54 after 
taking a pass from Smith in the corner. 
He practically had an open net to shoot 
at since the Duquesne goalie had come out 
to try to snare Smiths pass.
Shortly thereafter, these two players 
reversed roles as Smith caught a pass from 
Jonnatti in the slot and slapped under 
Sutliffs pads to make the score 3-1 at 
9:43.
Duquesne followed with a disputed goal 
at 10:32. In a scramble in front of the 
CMU net, goalie Jacobson apparently had 
fallen on the puck and the whistle for play 
stoppage blown. However, the puck went 
into the net almost simultaneously and the 
referee ruled that the goal be allowed.
No scoring occurred in the third period, 
but CMU did have several scoring chances, 
hitting the post no less than three times. 
Duquesne tried hard to make up the one 
goal deficit, but was unable to do so in 
spite of several CMU penalties.
It should be pointed out that two
Tom Grimm (20) shooting in Tartan victory.
standout forwards were not able to play. 
Captain Jack Arturos elbow is still in a 
cast due to bone chips and returnee Murray 
Leety should be ready to play by the next 
game on January 22 against Slippery Rock. 
The hockey team hopes that they will 
receive the same spectator support as they
have in the past.
CMU 1 2
DUQUESNE 1 1
Shots on goal 
CMU-38 Duquesne-28

---------------------------------------------------

January 18, 1977 - TARTAN - page 19
continued from page seventeen 
pelled the Tartans to their first advantage 
with 12 minutes left in the first half. A 
late spurt by CMU in the half gave Tech 
solid command of the context, 30-20 at 
the intermission.
CMU broke out of the gate swiftly to 
start the final 20 minutes when Larry 
DiCicco converted twice in the first minute 
of play. It was easy sailing from then on 
for the Tartans.
W&J seemed content on just trying to 
keep the score down rather than trying to 
battle back for a victory through much of
the second half. Their tactics were to no 
avail as Harvey poured in nine points 
during a three minute stretch and Pat 
Ward, inspired by the spirited Kitchen 
Band" from Pika, drilled in five during the 
final minute of play to balloon the CMU 
victory margin to 7146.
Harvey again led all scorers with 22 
points. DiCicco aided CMU with 12. Bob 
Yakovac, a 64 freshman, led W&J with 
16 points.
A pleased Coach Dave Maloney re
marked after the game, When was the last
the GRILL
LUNCHEON SPECIALS FOR THE WEEK
I 7 A.M. to 2 P.M.
j 
Wed. 19th
Hamburger - French Fries - Med. Soft Drink............68
Thurs. 20th
Hot Dog - French Fries - Med. Soft Drink............ .68
Fri. 21st
Fish Sandwich - French Fries - Med. Soft Drink .. .86 
Mon. 24th 
Cheeseburger - French Fries - Med. Soft Drink . . .75
Tues. 25th
Fish n Chips - Med. Soft Drink.95
for the weekend. 
$595
w pere
time someone held the ball against Carnegie-Mellon? Not many people can answer 
that question; but if the Tartans continue 
to roll, a stall against CMU might be the 
opponents only hope.
The Tartans winning streak started in 
December with two fine victories over 
Westminster and Baldwin-Wallace. CMU 
defeated Westminster 68-66 in a thrilling 
contest and destroyed Baldwin-Wallace 
93-74.
Against Westminster Harvey played an 
outstanding game, particularly in the late 
going, to lead the Tartans. The junior 
college All-American canned 23 including 
some crucial free throws and passed for ten 
assists. He was backed by Les Harpers and 
Costa's scoring plus Harpers and freshman 
Larry Hufnagels strong rebounding.
The Allegheny Community College trio 
of Harvey, Harper, and DiCicco combined
We feature GM cars.
Rate sufciect to change without notice
National Car Rental
for 62 points in CMUs romp over BaldwinWallace. Harvey had game-high scoring 
honors with 26 in addition to nine assists. 
Harper fired with deadly accuracy for 24 
markers and DiCicco chipped in with 12.
The Tartans travel to John Carroll 
Wednesday night at 8:00 p.m. and are 
home to face Hiram Saturday afternoon at 
2:00 p.m. in important PAC battles. CMUs 
JVs meet Pitts JVs in a 12 noon prelimi
nary to the Hiram game.
TRACK MEETING SET
The Tartan track team will begin its sea
son with an organizational meeting on 
Tuesday, January 25. Coach Meckley, 
coming off a very successful cross-country 
season, hopes to tap some of CMUs talent 
in the sprints and field events as well. All 
speedsters, jumpers, and throwers, male 
and female, are urged to meet at 4:30 p.m. 
in the Donner Hall locker room on Jan. 25.
per day plus 10c 
per mile
Monte Carlo or similar car
National s low weekend rate makes it easy to drive home, to the mountains 
or wherever Non-discountable rate available Friday noon to Monday noon 
You pay for the gas you use, and return car to renting location. Call for 
reservations today:
4621 Forbes Ave. (Oakland) 682-1444
550 Grant Street 261-5500
Greater Pittsburgh Aicport 262-2312
Its Class Ring lime
Carnegie-Mel Ion University Cfess^-RiHgs
Class Ring Ordering 
Information
firn
Days Jan. 20, Thurs. 
Time: 10:00-4:00
Places BOOKSTORE 
Please bring advance 
deposit of $10.00
ENJOY YOUR EASTER VACATION HOLIDAYSB
SKIING IN INSBRUCKp
 April 1st to April 10th
 From CHICAGO $399* per person
^ Sharing a twin
g 6 nights INNSBRUCK - 2 nights MUNICH
ai? or? .
 April 2nd to April 9th from NEW YORK
$369.00* * per person sharing a twin
 UMITED SPACE AVAILABLE  RESERVE IMMEDIATELY
6 nights INNSBRUCK
sa
S Call PEOPLES TRAVEL AGENCY
(412) 621-0799

---------------------------------------------------

page 20  TARTAN  January 18, 1977
JAN 18 Lower than the Angels
25 The Harvest of the Seasons
FEB 1 The Grain in the Store
8 The Hidden Structure
15 The Music of the Spheres
The Starry Messenger22 
MAR 8
ASCENT OF MAN
Tuesday Documentary Film Series 
Film times= 1t30 & 12=30 
Wherrett Room,Skibo
BRING YOUR LUNCH AND A FRIEND
The Majestic Clockwork
15 The Drive for Power
22 The Ladder of Creation
29 World within World
APR 12 Knowledge or Certainty
19 Generation for Generation
26 The Long Childhood
_ .
I. Y -J  V.Wv*
? (Wf* . byMar il* I
ogeam i
li
* /> ^
<~r] /*'**?'
k I
s|X>nsou*tl by r,DclfSux Pioqidm Planning 
un I yne si ty graphics
