Drama Students blame Midani for "secrecy & mistrust"
p by Steven Correll
Complaining that an atmosphere of 
secrecy and mistrust is disrupting their 
education, a group of Drama students cir
culated a petition last week to give Dean of 
Fine Arts Akram Midani a vote of no con
fidence.
Organizers of the petition drive said that 
by Sunday, 115 of the approximately 
220 Drama students had signed the
petition.
Those students complain that Midani 
has interfered in matters that ought to be 
left up to the department, and the petition 
asks for a definition of the Deans duties
and the limits of his power.
Were not calling for [Midanis] resig
nation or asking for any action ... we just 
want to find out who is in aesthetic control 
of the department, explained one organ
izer of the petition drive.
Midani defends his involvement in the 
departments affairs, saying that the Deans 
job is to know directily what goes on with
in the college.
A rubber stamp is much cheaper for 
the university than a dean. If they wanted 
a rubber stamp, they could buy one for 
fifteen cents, he said. Im not here just 
to write my name on add-drop slips. 
Impetus for the petition apparently
came from a meeting of Drama majors 
called by Midani on April 7 to announce 
the resignation of the interim Department 
Head, Baker Salsbury, and his replacement 
with Professor Lawrence Carra.
They were treating us as if we were 
blind, deaf and dumb, complained one 
student. They werent giving us any 
straight answers.
On Thursday, organizers of the petition 
drive called their own meeting. Over 80 
dramats attended. Complaints included a 
charge that the committee of tenured fac
ulty engaged in searching for a permanent 
department head is Midanis puppet; ex
pressions of personal animosity toward
-
tartan
April 15, 1975 Volume 75 Number 23
Skibo renovation considered ; 
Proposed Movie Theatre in Grill
by Charles Mitch
Proposals for renovating Skibo, 
including the possibility of converting the 
Tartan Grill into a movie theater are now 
being examined by the administration. A 
master plan based upon a usage study is 
now being conducted is hoped to be com
pleted before the end of this semester. This 
evening [April 14] at 8:00 pm in the Staff 
Dining Room (adjacent to the Kiltie Cafe) 
a meeting open to all will be held to discuss 
possible changes.
Pending completion of the usage study, 
no analysis of any proposal presented has 
yet been made. According to CMU Bus
iness Manager Bill Dillon, We want to 
better identify what is now going, by look
ing at what is presently going on we can 
make a more informed decision.
Major proposals have come from Rita 
Cohen, director of Food Services; a group 
known as the Ad Hoc Student Committee; 
and Irene Daugherty, Bookstore manager.
The Ad Hoc Committees proposal in
cluded converting the Tartan Grill into a 
movie theater seating 500. It is hoped that 
taking the films out of the classroom build
ings into one centralized area for student 
activities would improve campus security 
and provide a larger and higher quality 
space to view the movies. Also included in 
their proposal is the recommendation that 
the Highlander room (where the billiard 
tables and pinball machines are presently 
located) be converted into a room 
equivalent to the present Wherrett Room 
which would serve as a reception room for 
Food Services as well as an alternate pro
gramming space for all campus organiza
tions. This is intended to relieve the 
present heavy usage of the Wherrett Room.
Dillon commented that he felt convert
ing the Grill into a theater would be a 
disservice to an awful lot of people, 
indicating, however, that an area whereby 
the area would be used as a grill during the
day and for films in the evening could be 
worked out.
Other proposals include placing the art 
section of the bookstore in Skibo (possibly 
in the area now occupied by the lower level
continued on page 5
Embattled Dean Midani faces a no-confidence 
petition drive by angry drama students.
photo by John Rose 
Midani; and the assertion that students 
arent being told anything about the pro
cess of selecting a new department head or 
about curriculum revisions or about filling 
five empty faculty positions.
Midani admits that students in the 
acting option have legitimate gripes.  [The 
Carra appointment] is very much like 
changing a director in the middle of a 
show; it creates anxiety, he said.
He cited the high turnover among stu
dents in the acting option and the lack of 
master teachers as other complaints he 
regards as reasonable.
In response to questions about the 
search for a new head, the filling of faculty
continued on page 5
Konopka elected Pres.
Student Senate elections were held 
April 9 and 10. This was the first election 
under the new system of basing constit
uencies on the colleges. With a total of 40 
seats to be filled some colleges did not have 
enough candidates run to fill all of thier 
seats. Fine Arts, with 10 seats, had no 
candidates file petitions; H&SS with seven 
seats had only one candidate running, and 
GSIA with two seats had none running. In 
each case the remaining seats are to be 
filled by write-in candidates. Below is a 
partial list of election results with write-in 
information unavailable at the time of 
writing.
President of Student Govememnt
Doug Konopka
Camegje Institute of Technology
Richard Anderson
George Bachner
Richard Bogovich
Daniel Caprovelles
Paul Dinardo
William Latura
Keith McDonald
Ed Hank
Mike Pochan
Elliot Popowitz
Ronald Prengaman
Audi Stokes
Larry Valery
Mellon Institute of Science 
Keith Baker 
Aaron Clevenson 
Jerome Digennaro 
Mara Feldman 
Mike Steidel 
Deborah Watkins
Humanities and Social Sciences 
Amy Millman
continued on page 6
TARTAN 
Elects 
Singer
Gary Singer has been elected to serve as 
Editor-in-Chief of the TARTAN next year.
Mr. Singer, who now serves as Managing 
Editor, , hat been a member of the 
TARTAN staff for three years. As a report
er, he covered the CMU portion of the 
Nixon-McGovern campaign, the abortive 
plan to move the Music Department to 
Mellon Institute, and other campus contro
versies. As Managing Editor, he originated 
the papers News Comment page, an open 
forum for student opinion. His commentar
ies, appearing frequently on that page, have 
dealt with a variety of University policies 
including the way the CMU catalog por
trays the school to prospective students.

---------------------------------------------------

editors note
Dear Debbie;
/ need advice. Every year, / shell out $4,000 to attend 
Carnegie-Mellon University. My problem is that when it 
comes time to register for classes, nobody helps me decide 
what courses / should take or need to take for my major. / 
know my advisors name, but every time / go to see him, hes 
never in his office. He doesnt know who / am and he hasnt 
made any effort to see me. Where should / go for advice? / 
dont want to be a senior and find out that Im missing 
courses which / should have taken to get a job or enter 
graduate school.
Confused
Dear Confused;
Perhaps you should complain to the administration and 
deans about not getting advice. Maybe,~ they have a valid 
reason for not helping you. Find out if your professors get 
any compensation for helping you decide about *your 
schedule. Also, find out how the professors are prepared to 
advise you. Are they given any advice themselves about what 
courses are important for students in certain majors? Maybe, 
your university could employ a special person to advise 
students. Or you could choose a professor of your choice to 
be an advisor. Hope you can straighten out your schedule.
Dear Debbie;
I am a third year student in a business program for 
undergraduates. The school assures me that my education in 
four years is equivalent to one year in a masters program for 
business. Knowing this, / applied to graduate school for my 
senior year and / was accepted into a highly-rated program at 
Squeedunk. The problem is that my school is unwilling to 
grant me a bachelors degree after / attend a year of graduate 
school. After submitting all my applications, / cant go to 
graduate school until / finish four years at my present univer.. ItJ ?i. . 'J( ? . . t.sity.
vV liUfl
^5 tfvr uoq=^ ... 
i&ocfa QMS
W Wtc oor-vmoiovou
cco ... You^crffi^l
letters
Disappointed Editor:
Dear Disappointed;
Im surprised that your school is not elated about your 
acceptance into graduate school after you only completed 
three years of undergraduate education. Try to point out to 
your dean that your admittance to a graduate program proves 
the high calibre of your education. Did they ever tell you 
that you cant apply to a graduate program after three years? 
Your school sounds like it may have other motives for 
wanting you to stay an extra year. Perhaps, they need your 
money or they want you to enter a graduate program of their 
own.
Dear Debbie;
After explaining to my advisor that / will have taken 60 
units of music in the College of Fine Arts at my university 
and that / will have paid $585 extra for private trombone and 
piano lessons, / was told that / must take a course which is 
creative to fulfill my fine arts requirement for the college of 
Humanities and Social Sciences. / fail to understand how 
making music Is not creative. I am a humanities student who 
enjoys participating in a musical ensemble such as the band. / 
feel my musical activitiy has been an eJightening experience. 
One of the reasons / took trombone lessons was because / 
was genuinely interested in playing at a competent level. / 
thought this was the purpose of a requirement. By taking a 
course in Fine Arts that detracts from my practice time and 
time spent in other courses, / feel that / am wasting time.
Out of Breath
Dear Out of Breath;
Your advisors understanding of creativity seems slightly 
warped. There should be an alternative to fulfilling require
ments. It would be more practical for your department to 
waive your requirement in this case because your attendance 
in an unnecessary class burdens the size of the class. The 
university should be happy that you are investing extra 
money for such lessons. Their actions show a lack of creativ
ity or your part.
-Deb
I would like to express my 
disappointment in recently learn
ing of further cutbacks in the 
student activities program lead
ing to, what seems, eventual 
phase out. The greatest burden 
now, of course, falls upon Ms. 
Susan Christian, who has worked 
with such fervor towards the 
concept of student development, 
a route many universities across 
the country seem to be leaning 
toward. Carnegie-Mellon Univer
sity, however, continues to strive 
gloriously into the past.
As a Masters candidate in Stu
dent Personnel and Guidance I 
have been able to observe stu
dent development functioning 
firsthand. Within such a depart
ment Student Activities is but a 
part, although, perhaps, the most 
important part (which readily 
shows my personal bias). The 
concept would strive to create a 
total program of Student Life in
terrelating academia and extra 
and co-curricular functioning. In 
such a program students are con
sidered individuals, with the 
university concerned with their 
individual human development. 
In the literature, Crookston 
speaks of how the concept would 
change the way academic subject
matter is presented, asking the 
instructor to present the con
cepts in such a way as to be most 
meaningful to the various and 
differing audiences it may reach 
(a continual controversy at CMU 
in such areas as Economics and 
Computer Science). Also subject 
matter would be better inte
grated with other disciplines, as 
opposed to academic compartmentalization, as presented by 
many writers including D. 
Richard Little. At many univer
sities, where the Student Devel
opment concept is being put into 
effect, the position of Dean of 
Student Affairs is often being
continued on next page
tartan
ntiuedu Editor: 
Businas Manager 
News Editor:
Debbie Siegel Entertainment Editor: Mark Evan Chimsky
Gary Singer Trapeze Editor: Greg McKenna
Lester Nathan Photography Editor: John Shettel
Kevin Turcotte Sports Editor: Dave Kanner
Features Editor: Kris Mamula
Staff Writers: Steven (ShjtM, Sharon Curcio, James Fletcher, Dolores Foster, Feed Freedman, Roger Geddes, 
Dave Girdany, Lisa Gordon, Arnie Karr, Stacey Robin Kimbell, Susan N. Klein, Cheryl Lawson, Claire Lee, 
John Mangano, Chasres Mitch, Mike Pochan, Amy Reitmeyer. Dave Roussos, Paul Smith, John Spalding, Tom 
Schwartz. Chip Veager, Lisa Zeidner. Melana Nelson
Photographers: Richard Fisher, Rick Frantz, Courtney Larson, Ed Levine, Dave Meeker, Elliot Popowitz, 
Rodman Reilly, John Rose, Mark Segal, Fred Shamlian, Brian Smith
Business: Tony Fine, Tom Kendig. Arthur Silverberg
Aft: Nancy Biok, Nonie Dempsey, Rachel Feinberg, Kitty Fischer, Mindy Maier Vivian Kerstein, Ron Lasser
t am Typesetting: John Mangano, Ronnie Savi on, Paula Strasser, Carl Grefenstette, Dave Groupe 
Jim Viastc, Mary Kay Groupe
The Editorial Board of the TARTAN reserves the right to edit or withhold any copy that it considers unfit 
for publication. Funded by Student Government of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Penn. 15213. 
Editorial offices are located in Ski bo 50, Business office in Skibo 52. Telephone (412) 682-4557 or campus extension 656.
******

---------------------------------------------------

THETARTAN- April 15, 1975-Page 3
news comment
EVACUATING OUR LOYAL CUBAN ALLIES
"The Fringe Benefits Really Don't Compete ..
I7
Everybody tells you news of 
the past; but here, in one of the 
greatest journalistic scoops of all 
time, is news of the future: 
(October 1975) - For the 
fourth time in a year, Dr. 
Richard Cipher refused to answer 
the Cranberry-Money University 
Faculty Senates ffequest that he 
release the separate faculty pay 
> * scales for each department in the 
university.
Several faculty members 
charged that Cipher is withhold
ing the information because he 
doesnt want the school to know 
that professors in the Graduate 
School of Income and Avarice 
(GSIA) get paid a lot more than 
their counterparts in the school
of Inhumanities and Somewhat 
Sciences (I&SS).
Administration sources deny 
that any inequity exists, pointing 
out that in order to win talented 
executives away from big corpor
ations, it is necessary to pay 
them well.
These guys from industry are 
bright enough that they just 
wont swallow the argument that 
they ought to take part of their 
salary in the form of options to 
buy stock in a non-profit univer
sity, the sources explained.
But privately, Ciphers right 
hand man, Dick Van Balancesheet, confided to a reporter 
that the university just cant 
afford to pay all faculty the sal
aries that GSIA profs command.
How do you explain to an 
English professor that he closed 
at six and a half, down five and 
one eighth in heavy trading? 
asked Van Balancesheet despond
ently.
(January 1976) - President 
Gerald R. Hoover addressed the 
nation today at noon to discuss 
reports in the Washington Post 
that a band of commandoes 
carrying U.S. weapons was cap
tured by the Cuban army at the 
Bay of Pigs yesterday.
The invasion was a noble and 
selfless attempt to rescue Cuban 
civilians from Castros totalitar
ian regime, said the President.. 
Our only intention was to evacletters
continued from page 2
eliminated, to be replaced by 
Dean of Student Life, in con
gruence with the program. Often 
an administrator who would fit 
well under the former title would 
not under the latter.
The move on the part of Carnegie-Mellon is unfortunate. I 
realize the commitment of Dr. 
Cyert to economize and perhaps 
he can be praised for saving the 
university. However, at a time 
when disenchantment with bur
eaucratic organization is high 
throughout the country, Carnegie-Mellon can ill afford to fur
ther ignore a student populace 
already seeped in depression and 
apostasy.
Along with previous decisions 
made on H&SS this seems to be 
one more step along the road 
from University to In
stitute.
Ira Picker 
(H&SS 74)
Editor:
I read in THE TURTLE of 
April 8, 1975, E. Colis news 
comment on Superstars.
Finding an excellent musician 
and educator to head the Music 
Department has created, jus
tifiably, a great deal of excite
ment. During this process, I was 
trying to make the students and 
the faculty aware of the need to 
confirm CFAs tradition of insist
ing on high aesthetic standards 
and high caliber department 
heads. This might have caused, 
among a few, some disquietude.
Well there are those who suffer fiom acrophobia coupled 
with averageism. I believe the 
only cure would be to stop 
thinking of the College of Fine 
Arts as the bargain basement and 
see it the way I do, as the best 
and the most effective art institu
tion in higher education in Amer
ica, guided by Mr. Appollo, the 
inspirer of all artists, whose 
address is the penthouse in 
Olympus Apartments.
I- 11 _Acrid Middleman
-LETTERS POUCYThe TARTAN, like most profes
sional newspapers, tries to guard 
against fraudulent letters by re
fusing to print letters unless the 
authors full name appears on 
them. That does not mean that 
you can not have us use your 
initials or a pen name when we 
print your letter, but we still 
want to know your real name for 
the record.
-APOLOGYThe TARTAN owes C.J. an apol
ogy. We caused an unreasonable 
delay in printing her letter on 
discrimination in athletics, and 
then failed to ask her permission 
to use it as part of a commentary 
instead of in the letters column.
Editor:
When I first came to Carnegie 
-Mellon I naively thought the pri
mary function of a university 
was to educate students. After 
six years here, I am a little wiser.
At CMU the main function is to 
insure a well-paying job for the 
student upon graduation.
CMU might just as well be
come the Carnegie School for 
Engineers and artists and adver
tise on late night TV and matchbook covers. The only problem 
with it is trying to find a place 
for Humanities in a trade school. 
Because H&SS doesn not fit in, it 
is forced to suffer mainly from a 
tight budget.
I am writing because I recent
ly learned that another excellent 
professor, William McTaggart, 
[English] was denied tenure. It is 
not surprising that he will be 
leaving. He was one of the best 
teachers at CMU. I not only 
learned in his classes, but also 
retained an interest in the mater
ial long after the semester had 
ended.
It is truly unfortunate that 
someone of his caliber must 
leave.
Dan Buis
Psvch. 73
uate Castro himself to San 
Quentin prison. There was absol
utely nothing in American his
tory to indicate that this project 
might fail.
(September 1977) --Cran
berry-Money University Pres
ident Dr. Richard Cipher inad
vertently revealed today the 
secret of his administrations 
success, the reason behind CMUs 
financial stability in an era of 
hard times for private schools.
Its all made possible by our 
policy that faculty in one depart
ment should know nothing about 
what were paying faculty in any 
other department, he told a 
reporter.
The secret slipped out near the 
end of a panel discussion on 
WQED featuring Dr. Cipher, a 
faculty member from CMlFs 
GSIA business school, a teacher 
from CMUs school of 
engineering, and a teacher from 
CMUS school of I&SS.
The topic of discussion was 
The Plight of Higher Educa
tion.
Apropos of nothing, the 
business professor mentioned 
that salaries at the university 
arent bad, but the fringe bene
fits really dont compete with 
corporate benefit programs.
Thats really sort of off the 
topic, urged Dr. Cipher.
Salaries? wondered the en
gineering professor. You mean 
you people dont work on 
straight commission like we do, a 
cut of every research grant we 
get?
We really ought to get on 
with the discussion, interrupted 
Dr. Cipher nervously.
Salaries and commissions? 
said the humanities professor in 
astonishment. Thats incredible
- do you mean to tell me that 
the university still pays money to 
you for serving on the faculty? 
For the last three years Ive had
to moonlight at the Burger King 
so I can manage to keep up pay
ments on the fee I have to pay to 
CMU in order to remain a pro
fessor in full standing. And with 
the way the fee keeps going up 
every year, I really have been 
thinking a lot lately about giving 
up teaching. I have to admit that 
serving the kids hamburgers is a 
great way of maintaining rap
port, but still Im not a wealthy 
manGentlemen, please. I must 
insist that this is not the time nor 
the place for this discussion, 
said Dr. Cipher. And now, view
ers, Im afraid our time is about 
up. If universities ; are to contin
ue as a source of stimulating 
ideas for society as a whole, they 
need your support....
The day after the program, 
the president of CMUs Faculty 
Senate said he is withdrawing, his 
three year old request for infor
mation on salaries paid to faculty 
in various departments.
I think we found out every
thing we wanted to know, he 
said. Except one thing. Dr. 
Cipher is a management expert 
himself, and thus its probably 
necessary for the university to 
pay him a salary competitive 
with industry in order to make 
the cost-benefit analyses come 
out fairly. I wonder if he would 
be willing....
A Warner Hall spokesman said 
the President would have no com
ment.
E Coli
STUDENTS 
HELPING 
STUDENTS
Peer Help, BH 150A 
621-9900
WHAT DO YOU THINK?
The TARTAN Editorial Board decided one year ago to publish a 
biweekly magazine, which eventually was called TRAPEZE. On Thur
sday, April 24 at 8:30 p.m. in Skibo room 33, the Editorial Board will 
evaluate the direction TRAPEZE has taken in the past and what 
should be done with it in the future. We value^your, the reader's, 
opinion, and thus would like to encourage all interested people to at
tend this meeting. For more information call 682-4557 and ask for 
Gary.

---------------------------------------------------

4-THE TARTAN-April 15, 1975
announcements
B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish University Center
will hold a Bagel and Lox Brunch on Sun
day, April 20 at 11 am in the Conover 
Room in Mellon Center at Chatham 
College. Professor Fred Adelman will 
speak on "Women: An Anthropological 
View.'*
Last year's Thistle yearbook is available at
a very low price For details please leave a 
message at 683-0222 or write to Thistle 
care of Skibo Information Desk.
Campus groups which haven't arranged for
group pictures to be taken for the year
book should Teave a message in the Thistle 
box at the Skibo Information Desk, or call 
Kathy at 682-8899. Any group may par
ticipate.
The remodeling of Skibo will be discussed
at an open meeting in the Kiltie Cafe Staff 
Dining Room at 8 pm tonight, Tuesday, 
April 15. A list of tentative space planning 
objectives is available at the Skibo Infor
mation Desk.
Proficiency tests in French, German, Span
ish and Russian will be administered free to, 
interested students on Saturday, April 26 
at 10:00 am in MMCC 310. Aimed at stu
dents who have had two years of college 
courses, the tests may be taken to demon
strate competence acquired outside classes, 
or to satisfy college and/or departmental 
requirements. Students should sign up in 
BH 232B before Friday, April 25.
Final examination for 82-107 (Pro
grammed French) has been scheduled for 
April 30, 11 am to 4 pm in PH 231. Those 
hours have been arranged so that students 
who have another exam on the same day 
may come at the most suitable time for 
them.
B.S. with Mitch Greenberg. Sunday night,
9 pm. Call 621-WRCT.
Classified
The Computer Science 15-200 final, origin
ally scheduled for May 3, will be held in
stead at 1:30 on April 25 in Science Hall 
5403. For information call John Shettel, 
422-8543 or Debbie Lemmon, x 141.
A semester internship with Congressperson
Elizabeth Holtzman is available to stu
dents interested in working in Brooklyn on 
community issues, research and office 
duties. To apply for next fall, students 
should send a letter and resume as soon as 
possible to Ms. Marilyn Shapiro, Admin
istrative Assistant, 1027 Longworth-House 
Office Building, Washington, DC 20515.
Last-minute tax returns can be filed with
uniformed collection drivers at the four 
corners of Grant Street at Seventh Avenue 
from 7 om to midnight on April 15.
Women's historian Dianne Feeley will
speak on "International Women's Movements"on Wednesday, April 9 at noon in 
the Kurtzman room of the Pitt Student 
Union.
'Infant Stimulation" will be discussed at a
mini-conference on April 18 in the United 
Mental Health conference room in the 
Jenkins Arcade from 1 to 4 pm. For infor
mation, call 391-3820.
"The Way to Hope and Freedom," a lec
ture on finding real freedom by surrender
ing to God, will be given at 3:15 pm on 
April 13 at the First Church of Christian 
Scientists, 635 Clyde St.
Cognition and Social Behavior is the topic
of the 11 th annual Carnegie Symposium on 
Cognition, held in the GSIA auditorium 
from 9 am to 5 pm April 24-26.
The Latin American Club presents a film
by Luis Bunuel: "Los Olvidados" ("The 
Young and the Demned"). Free and open 
to the cao>u& community on Wednesday,
April 23 Hi 7:30 phi in PH 100.
<oiY*** i, ,
Graduation kits  containing calendars,
information, and announcements - should 
be picked up by undergraduate and grad
uate- candidates during the week of April 
21 at departmental offices.
Translation and the United Nations" will
be discussed by Ms. Judith Kushner of the 
UN English Translation Service, Monday, 
April 21 at 3:30 pm in BH 232-F. Informal 
discussions and refreshments in BH 230 
will follow the talk.
Push Someone in the Mud
But don't call the number we gave last 
week for information. The annual Spring 
Carnival Plank Joust will be held Saturday, 
April 19 at 1:30 pm on Ye Olde Kappa 
Sigma Lawn. New this year will be a Tug of 
War over ye olde mud hole. Prizes will be 
awarded. The correct numbers are: Charles 
Squires, 682-3613; or Rich* Weiss, 
441-5211.
Saturated Stupidity
The annual Waterballoon Battle .and 
Gazortching Contest will be held Friday 
April 18 at 2:30 pm on the Football Field. 
Prizes will be awarded. For information 
call Larry Denburg, 687-0628 or Rich 
Weiss, 441-5211.
Crazy Co-ed Carnival Crawl
This year's Carnival relays promise to be 
more fun than ever. Teams will consist of 
six people-male, female or neuter... the 
relays will take place on Friday, April 18 at
4 pm on the Football Field. Prizes will be 
awarded. For information call Drew 
Konnerth, 422-8627 or Rich Weiss, 
441-5211.
Ridiculous Ride Reductions!
Reduced-price tickets to Spring Carnival 
rides are available at the Skibo Information 
Desk until tomorrow, April 16: 10% off to 
anyone with a valid CMU ID.
Disciplinary procedure, athletics and
C-MAP will be discussed by the Trustees' 
Committee on Student Affairs on Monday, 
April 21. Students who want to add to the 
agendawhich could also include the stu
dent activities fee and student government 
reorganizationshould contact Dean 
Swank well in advance.
Library hours will be extended to 2 am
from April 20 through May 5.
A backpacking workshop, including a
demonstration of equipment, will be con
ducted by Roger Westman at 7:30 pm 
Wednesday, April 16 in the Pittsburgh 
National Bank meeting room, Forbes 
Avenue in Squirrel Hill. Sponsored by the 
Sierra Club.
Medical College Application
Service (AMCAS) request forms are avail
able in Doherty Hall 2114.
Films on Zen in Ryoko-in will be shown in
Pitt's David Lawrence Hall on Tuesday, 
April 8 at 9 00 am in room 209 and at 1 
pm in room 205. Admission is free.
Campus RepresentativeGreat chance for a
fraternity or sorority to have a continuous 
income with no investment. Call 281-4020.
-JOBFull or part time position for individual 
with direct sales ability. Experience making 
presentations to people directly in their 
homes. Dynamic Cable TV. 461-2804 
weekdays after 10:30 am. Attractive com
mission. Car necessary.
COUNSELORS, over 20 for unique over
night boys camp in Penna Able to instruct 
any one of the following: Water safety, 
boating, water skiing, athletics, golf, 
physics, chemistry, rocketry, tennis, 
riflery, ham radio, photography, arts & 
crafts or archery. Write Camp Director 138 
Red Rambler Drive, Lafayette Hill, Pa. 
19444.
Free Preganancy testing Mon-Sat 9-4. For
information call 362-2920
Female models needed for promotional
campaign. Earn excellent salary in spare 
time. Send photo and resume to A&R 
Associates, P.O. Box 7220, Oakland 
Station, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213.
Need a practical inexpensive rug for the
summer or next fall? For sale: a 7 by 10% 
ft. rug, red-violet color and very practical 
for most dorm rooms. No holes or stains. 
Will part with it for $12 or best offer. Call 
682-9430 after 8 pm and ask for Lester 
Nrthan.
Ner l some extra cash over the summer? I
net a place to store my trunk and a few 
bo> *s from about May 5 to Sept. 1. 
Re< .onable pay. MINDY, 683-2462.
Educational FlightsFlights to Europe.
$2i 5 round trip, $177 one way. Flights 
arr. nged to Asia, Africa, Mid-East as well. 
Ca! 361-7294,731-3543.
ENLARGER 5x7 AUTO OMEGA E3.
Accessories. Gregg 682-6901.
TAPE RECORDER, 621-9727. Mark.
PARACHUTINGFirst Jump Training-$45
at Dhio Parachute School, 90 minute drive 
from campus. Phone 216-332-9843 week
day evenings.
summer neurope
65 DAY ADVANCE PAYMENT REQUIRED
U S GOVT APPROVED 
TVVA PAN AM TRANSAVIA
70/ 70? '07
CHARTERS LESS THAN
1/2
ECONOMY FARE
/0/ uni-travel charters CALL TOLL FREE 1 800 325 4867 
COLOR COPIES
Now available at Copy Ca ' 
Same day service at new location in FOUR GATEWAY CENT & or 48 hour service at 
Copy Cat- in WEBSTER HALL. Special For Students & Faculty!
XEROX COPY PRICES:
I - 5 - 6C/copy
6 -10 - 3C/copy
II -13- 2C/copy 
16-Up -1 ViC/copy
100 copies cost * 1.83 
(OF SAME ORIGINAL)
Ask for a quote on 
large volume jpbs.
Expert Typing^Avoiloble on IBM 
Selectric Typewriters
* A 25% discount is available 
on copies in T-5 range if you 
leave work for 48 hours.
OFFSET PRINTING PRICES:
IOG Copies - S3.50 
l:ach additional 10O - 90C
IOOO Copies - $ 11.60 
liact. additional 100 - 80C
^COO Copies-$19.60
Above 5000 each additional 
100 Copies -70C
BOOK BINDING PRICES: 
Paper Cowar - 85C 
Composition Cowar- $1.50 
Hard Co war
EXPCIT TYPING
Alt done on IBM 
Selcctric Typewriters
COPY CAT
Quick Copy Center
raut tfWAT camta 
2*8-2577
tpia potsmr omoM u>.
CAIO TO MCWt STUMNT 
AMO FACULTY OtSCOUMT.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANApril 15,  97bPage 5
Skibo renovation 
meeting tonight
continued from page 1
of the Tartan Grill), enlarging Entropy b> 
removing a wall separating it from an area 
n0w used for storage, and having one of 
the serving lines in the Kiltie Cafe convert
ed into a seconds arrangement similar to 
the Morewood cafeteria.
proposals and ideas from students and 
interested parties are being welcomed. 
Ideas may be presented at tonights meet
ing and they will be accepted by any of the 
administrators and students directly in
volved in the planning. These people are: 
Bill Dillon, Business Manager; Dean Swank;
Richard Van Horn, Vice President for 
Business Affairs; Susan Christian, Director 
of Student Activities; Rita Cohen, Food 
Service Director; Irene Daugherty, Book
store Manager; Gary Singer, TARTAN; 
Patty Aerni, Activities Board; Peter 
Fletcher, Activities Board; Dave Groupe, 
Student Senate; Doug Konopka, Student 
Senate; Gail Netzlof, Entropy; Susan 
?Olshansky; Stiident Senate; Beverly Rob
inson, Student Government; Jim Vlasic, 
Dan Rosen, WRCT.
It is estimated that as much as $100,000 
may> be available! for ^jttevej; .renovations 
are finally decided upon. t
For Free Brochure - Write
Midani responds to 
Student Charges
THE COMPUTER-AGE 
DATING SERVICE
DATAMATIC 
P.O. BOX 7421 
OAKLAND STATION 
PITTSBURGH, 
PENNSYLVANIA 15213
continued from page 1
vacancies, and the selection of mainstage 
productions for next year, Midani says he 
would like to hold a departmental meeting 
before the end of the semester to answer 
all except the questions on the new head.
The student petition suggests that 
Midani is to blame for the resignations, of 
both Salsbury and the previous department 
head, Earle Gister. Salsbury became acting ,, 
t head when Gister left for a years sabbatprical beginning last semester. Gister resigned 
last December, and Salsbury renamed as n 
interim head while the department 
searched for a permanent replacement. But 
Salsbury stepped down April 1, citing 
deep and irreconciliable differences with 
Midani.
Midani stressed that Salsbury was not 
asked to resign, but that Salsbury created 
a situation that I welcomed ... philo
sophically I do not believe in acting ad
ministrators. I think we should stabilize the 
department with a strong administration 
while we search for a new head.
Asked what the irreconciliable differ
ences were, Midani said that Salsbury gave 
no reasons in his resignation letter, but that 
the two men had disagreed on how much 
authority and responsibility an acting 
department head should have.
Midani stressed repeatedly that he views 
Carra more as a permanent department 
head who will step down when the search 
is over than as another interim head.
You owe a stable situation to the stu
dents who will have graduated by the time 
you finally bring in the Messiah, he said.
GAPPY & C0.i.
323 BLVD. OF THE ALLIES, PITTSBURGH, PA. 15222 PHONE 412-281-2133
Artist Materials and Supplies!
CORDIALLY INVITES YOU TO VISIT OUR NEWLY REMODELED
DOWNTOWN RETAIL STORE
WHERE YOU CAN NOW FIND A COMPLETE SELECTION OF 
FINE AND COMMERCIAI ARTISTS SUPPLIES 
IN ADDITION TO OUR MANY
SCREEN PRINTING AND SIGN SUPPLY ITEMSn :  i i ot; r : r - c * * -
mqV t Here are some 
of our new products
PORTFOLIOS 
DRAWING BOARDS 
DRAWING BOOKS 
DRAWING TABLES 
TECHNICAL PENS 
PENCILS AND FELT MARKERS 
LINOLEUM BLOCK MATERIALS 
MODELING CLAY A
PARCHMENT PAPER 
WATER COLOR PAPER 
CONSTRUCTION PAPER 
CHARCOAL AND PASTEL PADS 
LAYOUT BONDS 
CANVAS
STRETCHER BARS 
PRE-STRETCHED CANVAS PANELS 
ARTISTS EASELS
ARTIST OIL COLORS 
ACRYLIC AND WATER COLORS 
FINE ARTIST BRUSHES 
ART BOARDS 
LARGE PAPER SELECTION 
SKETCH BOOKS 
NEWSPRINT 
BRISTOL PADS
. and many other fine 
and commercial art items.
President Cyert, asked to comment on 
the controversy during a WRCT interview 
last week, said that Salsbury Did a good 
job while he was there ... we probably put 
Baker in a bad position [naming him acting 
head just before he is due for tenure con
sideration] .
Although the protest coincides with 
Carras appointment, no student at the 
.Thursday meeting objected to him. One of 
the organizers of the meeting said, Carra 
himself is wonderful. He should have been 
named to replace Gister at the very begin
ning.
Not all students agreed with the antiMidani positon. Two walked out of the 
Thursday meeting before the sponsors fin
ished reading the petition aloud, and many 
objected to its wording. Some felt it ought 
to blame faculty rather than Midani for 
some of the grievances; others feared the 
timing of the petitions release would 
imply criticism of Carra where none was 
intended.
One student felt that Midani and Carra 
came out of the Monday meeting looking 
better than the students: The students 
decided to turn the meeting into a con
frontation, which Midani and Carra werent 
prepared for. But [the administrators] 
stayed calm and the students came out like 
pompous, self-righteous asses.
Midani lias charif^d the relationship be
tween iJeanr and department, and much 
animosity centers on his new conception of 
that relationship. The department once 
operated almost autonomously; at times, 
deans did not know the departments bud
get. Midani, who was and is Associate Pro
fessor of Drama, was not at all inclined to 
maintain that hands-off approach when he 
became Dean in 1972.
Leaders of the petition campaign declin
ed to cite specific cases where Midani has 
allegedly interfered unfairly in hiring and 
firing faculty, and declined to be identified 
in print themselves, saying, Thats an in
dication of how people are scared, para
noid and afraid because they dont know 
whats going on.
Only if a majority of drama majors sign 
the petition will they send it to Cyert, 
Midani, trustees, alumni and faculty, they 
say.
the
MCAT
Review Seminar
Intensive Weekend 
Preparation 
for the May 3rd MCAT Taught by 
Practicing Physicians
The instructing Physician offers the 
prospective medical student a thorough 
analysis of the MCAT as well as an 
evaluation of the candidate s strengths 
and weaknesses. Each section of the 
Test is extensively simulated and care
fully reviewed
Complete tuition, including materials, is 
$99.00
State College April 5*6 
Philadelphia April 12 & 13 
Pittsburgh April 19 A 20
for further Information 
Call collect
814-435-6521
or write:
MCAT Review Center.
32 Gramercy Pad South 
New York. N.Y. 10003

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6THE TARTANApril 15, 1975
(Kfte atft Cftotr of ffittgfaargf)
Presents
MASS IN TIME OF WAR - Hadyn 
CANTATA 29: WE PRAISE THEE , O GOD - Bach
W. W. Wagner directing choir, soloists, and orchestra 
Monday, April 21 - 8:00 P.M.
TRINITY CATHEDRAL - Sixth Avenue near Smithfield
Tickets $3.00, students $2.00, at all Kaufmann's stores. 
Sears, Home's downtown, and Pitt Student Union.
Luncheon Forums
PROFESSOR WALTER D0LDE, 
GSIA
Speaking On
"Implications of Macroeconomic Theory 
to CMU Students
Bring your lunch and a friend to the Wherrett Room to find 
out if youll be able to afford life 10 years from now.
THURSDAY - 12:30 - APRIL 17 
Wherrett Room
Cyert Returns 
from Japan
by Amy Reitmeyer
For the first two weeks of March, Pres
ident Cyert spoke to institutions in Aus
tralia and Japan about management edu
cation. In 1970 he served as chairman of a 
committee to recommend a management 
education school for Australia. He returned 
this year to speak to the new Dean and 
Vice Chancellor of the University of New 
South Wales.
President Cyert spent the larger portion 
of his trip in Japan as one of four members 
of an international advisory board, spon
sored by the Ford Foundation. The Robert 
Trueblood Professor of Economics Ijari, 
attended the Japanese conferences also.
The problem confronted by the com
mittee dealt with upper level management 
in Japanese corporations. No young men 
are being trained to replace aging higher 
level managers. The basic porblem lies in
Cyert
photo by Eliot Popowitz
DID YOU KNOW?
A YEAR or a SEMESTER abroad 
may be cheaper than a 
YEAR or SEMESTER in the States. 
Why not live, study and learn in EUROPE ?
ACADEMIC YEAR ABROAD221 East 50th Street New York. N. Y 10022
the coordination of educational and indus
trial needs in Japan. Due to lack of train
ing, opportunities are not created for 
young men to move up in the Japanese 
corporations. President Cyert presented a 
lecture entitled Social Responsibility of 
the Firm.
Cyert noticed that the Japanese have 
greater desire and drive to work which 
therefore increases utility. The industries 
have been advised to set up schools outside 
of the firm for general management training purposes. Many ideas incorporated in 
GSIA provided guidelines for the foreign 
institutions.
Refresher 
course.
Senate Election 
Results
From one beer lover to another.
TM STaOM MfWftY COMPANY, DCTtOIT, MICHIGAN 4M26
continued from page 1
seven to be elected, write-in results 
unavailable
Administration and Management Science
Larry Kurzweil 
Lorraine Wilson
Graduate School of Industrial Admin
istration
Willie Thompson
Two to be elected, write-in results 
unavailable
College of Fine Arts
Ten to be elected, write-in results
Newly elected Student Government President,
Doug Konopka.
photo by John Ro^
Iunavailable ^

---------------------------------------------------

SUMMER ROOMS FOR RENT
$60.00 per month TOTAL. Right on the CMU campus - 
For more information call 687-8965 or 681-3318.COMPLETE INFORMATION AND OFFICIAL ENTRY FORMS 
AVAILABLE AT SKIBO INFORMATION DESK
by Steve Falatko
A concrete sidewalk is being installed on 
the old quadrangle between the space in 
front of the main entrance of Doherty* Halt 
and a side entrance of Porter Hall, connect
ing the parallel circulation route separated 
by a formal lawn in the only fully executed 
part of the original 1906 campus plan 
designed by Henry Hombostel.
The project originated in the need for 
paving a well-traveled path between the 
long buildings. Captain William Banks of 
Building Services consulted with architects 
Griswold, Swain, and Winters to formulate 
a plan approved by the office of Business 
Affairs headed by Richard Van Horn.
Originally planned to extend across the 
area at the southeast corner of Doherty 
Hall, the walk was widened and extended 
across the quadrangle upon recommen
dation of the Design Review Committee 
headed by Robert Ballay of the Design 
Department. The Committee was not con
sulted prior to contracting by Building Ser
vices.
The installation of the diagonal concrete 
walk has generated some concern on the 
part of those who would preserve the 
atmosphere of the original Beaux-Arts 
design of the quadrangle. Prominent archi
tect Richard Meier, recently visiting CMU 
as a guest lecturer, commented that the 
sidewalk is a defacement of one of the 
most beautiful environments he had seen 
in an American university.
Materials other than concrete were con
sidered by Building Services and the archiCLAIRES KNEE
See CLAIR'S KNEE 
Sunday, April 20, Por
ter Hall 100, 8 p.m. 
Admission: 90*.
tects for construction of the walk, among 
them a brown tile similar to that paving the 
plaza in front of Hammerschlag Hall. With 
$200,000s worth of concrete work to be 
done and a budget of only $10,000, ob
served Captain Banks, the additional ex
pense of about three times the cost of plain 
concrete with no functional advantages 
cannot be justified.
The Design Review Committee i: 
customarily consulted in matters pertaininj 
to renovation of University facilities. Th< 
failure to do so in the case of the new 
sidewalk, which was contracted sometimt 
last month', has not been explained. WorV 
will progress for completion by Com 
mencement in May.
RUGS::
1000 Room-Size Rugs 
| 9x12s: S 15-SI9-S29-S39 {
| Also 6x9s, 12x12s, 12x15s, etc. ^
/ Smaller area rugs in Oriental, ~ J
Indian and furry styles |
| CHASE'S RUGS ;
 4513 Liberty Ave, Bloomfield i
! /'j (54-C bus lets off at the store)
Open daily 10 to 6 pjn.,
i Friday to 8 pjn.,
| Saturday til 5 p.m.
FOR INFORMATIONDIRECTIONS621 -1025^*
GIRLS........................ARE YOU LOOKING FOR A SUMMER
COUNSELOR POSITION? Applicants are now being con
sidered for the 1975 camp season. Must be able to teach 
one of the following: Theater Director, Archery, Tennis 
Director, Golf, Photography, Scouting and Nature Study, 
A.R.C. Swimming Instructor, Boating, Canoeing and Water 
Skiing Instructor. Secretary also needed. Write Camp 
Director 2409 Shelleydale Drive, Baltimore Md. 21209.
THE TARTANApril 15, 1975-Page 7
Environment defaced 
by new sidewalks ?
On April 10, from 11:00 am to 5:00 pm 
Carnegie-Mellon University was the site of 
a Blood Drive sponsored by Alpha Phi 
Omega. During this time 87 pints of blood 
were collected from 78 people; an 
additional 27 people wished to give blood 
but for medical reasons could not.
As Co-chairman Dave Yorkgitis explain
ed, Alpha Phi Omega National at their 
meeting last December urged that all local 
chapters should become involved in blood 
drives because of a nationwide shortage of 
donors.
The Central Blood Bank of Pittsburgh 
was contacted and the date of April 10 was 
agreed on.
Each donor would give approximately 
one pint if he (she) weighed more than 120 
pounds; if they weighed less, then only half 
a pint would be taken. With his donation
photo by Mark Segal
of blood, the student, his family, and all 
members of the blood plan would be pro
tected for one year from the date of dona
tion. This means that under all conditions 
and no matter what the amount, the donor 
group would receive blood at no cost to 
the donor.
The whole procedure from filling out 
the forms to the medical screen to prepar
ing the body to the mandatory waiting 
period of 15 minutes, takes a half hour.
One nurse, who would only refer to 
herself as B.R., said this about the CMU 
students: We [the nine nurses] have been 
to many local campuses, but here at CMU 
we found the students very cooperative 
and not at all afraid of the needles. For 
those of you who missed this blood drive 
the Bank hopes to be back next semester.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8THE TARTANApril 15, 1975
#1 in the beer capital of the world.
For years weve been telling you that in Milwaukee, 
beer capital of the world, Pabst Blue Ribbon 
is the overwhelming favorite.

V
CANS197519741973
PABST53%48%42%
BRAND 212%11%18%
BRAND 35%5%7%
BRAND 45%5%5%
BOTTLES197519741973
PABST46%46%43%
BRAND 210%9%11%
BRAND 38%7%8%
BRAND 46%9%10%
SOURCE: Milwaukee Journal Consumer Analysis
More beer is brewed in Milwaukee than any other 
city in the world. So to be the #1 selling beer in 
Milwaukee means youve got to be brewing the 
best beer money can buy.
And Pabst must be doing just that. Look at 
the charts. Blue Ribbon accounts for more 
than half the beer sold in Milwaukee. It out
sells the next brand nearly five to one.
Thats why we feel weve earned the right to 
challenge any beer. So heres the Pabst challenge: 
Taste and compare the flavor of Blue Ribbon 
with the beer youre drinking and learn 
what Pabst quality in beer is all about. 
But dont take our word for it. Taste our 
 word for it.
PABST Since 1844. The quality has always come through
PABST BREWING COMPANY Milwaukee. Wit., Peoria Heights, III., Newark, N.J., Los Angeles, Cal., Pabst. Qsocgla._____________

---------------------------------------------------

f Tuesday, April 15, 1975  Page 9

---------------------------------------------------

A Sense of History
Going Buggy for the Races
Page 10  Tuesday. April 15, 1975TRAPEZE
by John Mangano
The greatest, wildest, jazziest, most blood-curdling, 
hair-raising, breath-stopping, shirt-tearing event in Teeh 
annals.... See the fifteen fire eating, smoking, snorting, 
rustling, hustling gas chariots, piloted with their deathdefying pilots, tag with the undertaker. Watch the canny 
jockeying for positions, see them rocking through the air 
across the campus, the almost certain death at the bean
ery curve, the terrible grind down the final lap, men and 
machines crumbling under the terrific strain.
O U's Prize Design of 1921
In April of 1920, a TARTAN reporter prophetically 
painted the definitive view of the annual buggy sweep
stakes, weeks before the first race was held. On May 19, 
ten pushmobiles lined up in front of Margaret Mor
rison and at the sound of pistol fire, still to be heard 
fifty-five years later, took off for Schenley Park. The 
race was designed to imitate the striking motorized races 
which were the passion of the day. A pit stop was placed 
along the course, and to demonstrate mechanical dexter
ity, the rules required switching the left rear wheel with 
the right. The first race was exciting enough to foster 
tradition, but unfortunately there is no record of the 
winning fraternity.
Sigma Nu copped the golden cup in 1921 with the 
first recorded time of 4:38. DU won the first design 
competition, with a buggy which resembled a monstrous 
fish on four wheels. The race began and finished in front 
of Fine Arts on a road that cut through the campus 
between Baker Hall and Hunt Library. That year saw the 
first accident: SAE forged to the front. ...However, at 
the fish pond the jinx got them....The machine became 
un- manageable, headed straight for a tree. It crashed 
and removed two wheels. Wilson , and Ted his mechanic, 
were hurled through the air and after they landed, the 
wreck landed on top of them.
In 1922, some hard-headed engineers with no sense 
of beauty discovered that they could make much better 
time going down through the park if they built a place 
on the back of the buggy for the pusher to ride. This 
device chopped some 20 to 30 seconds off the record, 
and was to become a standard feature for twenty years. 
SAE was .the winner in 4:38 minutes, and DU succeeded 
their fish with a grasshopper which proved rather 
temperamental and was seen veering in the general 
direction of the B&O Railroad.
By 1924, most racers had given up trying to look like 
motor cars and were very seriously trying to be fast 
efficient motorless cars. What emerged in 1926 was a 
buggy that resembled little more than three or four big 
bicycle wheels on a ligfrt metal frame.
Carnegie Tech roared along with the rest of the coun
try during the late twenties;Spring Carnival inspired pol
ice raids on dormitiories; and student retaliation in the 
forms of smoke bombs and the hurtling of light bulbs 
and buckets of water (one of which crowned the local 
sheriff)- President Baker cancelled Carnival Week in 
1929, but the Buggy races went on with ten entries. Phi 
Kap won in a time of 3:05.6, running a route which is 
roughly the present day course. No trophy was awarded.
Through the thirties, times were cut steadily down to 
a record 2:43 in 1938 when the Delts ran a close second 
to Kappa Sig. The time is remarkable considering that 
many of the buggies still carried the second pusher and 
the driver down the coast and past the conservatory. By
1940 however, apparently most wagons coasted with 
only the driver.
During the war years the buggy races were dropped, 
due to the draft and the urgent need for aluminum. The 
post-war races ushered in a new era of buggy design. The 
old three-wheeler, resembling a low-slung wheelchair 
with bicycle tires, gave way to the soap box derby 
model, sporting four wheels and a torpedo-like body. In 
1946, Delta Tau Delta emerged as the champion who 
was to have a strong grip on the race for the next seven 
years. The Delts set a new record every year, culminating 
in a 1952 time of 2:41.6. Alpha Tau Omega came out 
with an exact duplicate of their prize-winning machine, 
and so began their buggy dynasty which was to last 
ten years. In 1957 ATOs Golden Goose brought 
about a radical change of design with its low-slung body 
and prone driver. Phi Kappa Theta had introduced the

---------------------------------------------------

TRAPEZE
I.uesday, April 15, 1975 - Page 11
version of the fret sweepstakes.
first fiberglas uni-body a few years earlier, another buggy 
breakthrough. 1963 saw the end of ATOs reign, when 
Goose spun out of control near Scaife Hall and
crashed.
The SAE bike was the shocker of the sixties, being a 
radical departure in design. Although it was five to ten
seconds slower than a solid tire four wheeler, its light
ness in pushing nearly made up for the longer free-roll 
time. The success of the bike in its maiden races led to 
similar designs from other fraternities.
The greatest boon to the art of the buggy has come in 
the past two years, in the repaving of the course.
Sponsored by Campus 
Program Planning and 
B'nai B'rith Hillel
Part III
Tuesday, April 15 
7:30 p.m. 
Wherrett Room, Skibo 
Camegie-Meilon 
University
ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN
CONFLICT:
THE WEST BANK
Asthetic Appeal went out the window in the buggy designs of the late
Amos Eton 
Author of Between Enemies' 
Foreign Correspondent tor Ha Aretz 
Pane of Respondents

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12  Tuesday, April 15, 1975TRAPEZE
packages so that every point is made with a 
seeming off-handedness, yet with a precise 
clarity, and most importantly, wit. For 
example, I asked him if he enjoyed reading 
other magazines.
Oh yes! Im a compulsive reader. If I 
couldnt read anything else Id read the 
contents of a candy bar. All that glycerin 
or whatever they have in it, Id read all 
that.
Any particular favorites?
Among i candy bars?Snickers. Next 
question?
And like that. But that kind of witty
patter is not at all the substance of a con
versation with Gill. The wit is the garnish, 
the added spice that festoons the astute 
observations on aesthetics. Brendan Gill is 
not a professional withe is not a humorist 
like Benchley or Thurber. But writers of 
that Algonquin era all seem to carry with 
them an ear for graceful reparteethey all 
possess an innate talent to amuse.
However, Gill is not languishing in that 
past generation Hes too busy. Hes on the 
committee to save Grand Central Station. 
His desk is strewn with letters to be 
answered, unpublished books and first*
I met Brendan Gill two weeks after his 
book Here At The New Yorker hit the 
best-seller list. He was exuberant on the 
phone when we set up our interview, and I 
was taken aback by his grinning pleasant
ness when we met. Hes not the pompous, 
long-winded-man-of-letters I had imagined: 
writer of curt, damning theater reviews, 
reviewer who walks out of plays brooding 
and waving a fist.
Rather, the man is slender and smiling, 
tall and graying. He is fastthe phone rings 
incessantly and he jumps up from the black 
leather sofa and strides across the room to 
expertly nab every call before the second 
ring.
Hello! he shouts with animation, a 
rich and comrrfan^ing voice that is at once 
jovial, fervent and bhatty.

The New Yorker is fifty years old, a 
weekly magazine born when the Algonquin 
Round Table was brimming with witty 
celebrities and the New York theater was 
enjoying its burgeoning heyday. The mag
azine has its offices around the comer from 
the Algonquin, convenient for the Thurbers and Perelmans and E.B. Whites; two 
blocks up from the Theater District. 
Brendan Gill joined the magazine nearly 
four decades ago, a kid fresh out of Yale, a 
wealthy, cocky kid who loved living like a 
millionaire; and although never quite 
attaining that financial status, a man who 
continues to make a hedonist lifestyle for 
himself today. It is a hedonism which 
bespeaks the well-read, well-bred milieu of 
his own family life as well as The New 
Yorker family.
Gill leaned forward on the black sofa 
pouring from a bottle of 1969 Oppenheimer-Krotenbrunhen, wine selected from 
the rack he keeps well-stocked, bottles 
stacked neatly beside his desk. He shoved 
aside two or three copies of the new book 
from the coffeetable and produced some 
"big photographs of old buildings.
Stanford White. My next book will be 
on Stanford White.
Sometimes I think my children respect 
me more for knowing Woody AJlen thar 
for anything else Ive ever done.
He laughs. He laughs and smiles often 
He is a successful writer having a good 
of it. And there are few things that 
him unhappy.
I walk out of plays about three or four 
times a yearnot very frequently. And I 
have a principle involved there, which I 
believe to be sound, although some of my 
colleagues wont share it. Walter Kerr, of 
the Times, for example, will stay to the 
bitter end, no matter what.
I walk out because it seems, in a way, 
kinder on the actors. If it seems Im wit
nessing a horrible debacle Im going to get 
angrier if I stay longer. But I always an
nounce in my review that Ive not seen the 
whole play. I wouldnt want anyone to 
think that I had. Im very careful aboui 
that.
I have other colleagues who simply fall 
asleep, which is a theraputic way, I sup
pose, of dealing with a problem otherwise 
inapcessable to solution.
Gill explained that what he does is 
reviewing as opposed to criticism, and 
that there are no theater critics writing 
for tabloids today.
Journalism is a service. Whether its 
investigative, whether its political, whether 
its aesthetic; whatever it is. You are direct
ing your attention to what is useful to the 
reader, and not to what is useful to other 
reporters, or to politicians, or to artists.
In 1967 Gill left his movie reviewing at 
the New Yorker to Pauline Kael and 
Penelope Gilliat, two women he calls bril
liant, adding that The New Yorker has 
always had brilliant women! Besides the 
theater reviews he has written essays on 
books as well as films.
I have five beautiful daughters who 
take turns accompanying me to theater 
openings. At one time it was thought that I 
was simply introducing them all as 
daughters merely as a coverup, although 
that is truly not the case!
There were some other photographs on 
the coffeetable; Brendan Gill shaking hands 
with Mayor Beame, Brendan Gill and 
Woody Allen, another New Yorker contrib
utes shaking hands.
His phraseology is that of a seasoned 
raconteur; his words are arranged in neat
by Susan N. Klein

---------------------------------------------------

TRAPEZE
Tuesday, April 15,1975 - Page 13
'ORKER
draft cartoons sent to him for perusal and 
comments. His review of that week was of 
a revival of All God's Chillun Got Wings, so 
his desk was piled with books on ONeill 
for research on the production. There were 
original portfolios and ancient architectural 
briefs stamped Stanford White foi 
research on the coming book. Gill was in
terrupted by one caller to whom he detail
ed elaborate plans for an afternoon archi
tectural walking-tour of New YorV 
Loving the casual elegance of the past, 
Gill pays homage to it constantly in his 
books and in speaking, yet he does so in a 
genial, friendly manner. Rather than write 
books on Cole Porter and Tallulah Bank
head dripping with cloying nostalgia, Gill 
presented those personalities as friends: 
Cole and Tallulah, said the deco book 
jackets; were all on a first-name basis. And 
although Gill has, in his thirty-odd years at 
The New Yorker, seen many friends and 
faces come and go, he never expresses a 
longing for the past.
Its like what Shaw says in Caesar and 
Cleopatra. Caesar says sadly, Every year I 
grow older and every year the faces on the 
Appian Way remain the same. There are 
always brilliant new young people. Along 
comes an Updike; an old writer dies and a 
new writer comes along. Theres no telling 
which way a magazine will go because 
theres no way of knowing where new 
talent will come from. In pops a new car
toonist like Ed Koren or Booth.
I have so much energy! Id like to do 
everything on this magazine; all the movie 
reviews, the theater reviews, the Profiles, 
the book reviews, but Im afraid that might 
look a little, well, cheap!
Multiply time by energy and theres 
very little you cannot do. You can write 
War and Peace every year of your life, as 
far as having the time to work goes.
I said I doubted I could write War and 
Peace every year of my life.
You see, young people tend to believe 
that theyre never going to have time for 
anything. In point of fact, time is the least 
of our problems, we all have too much 
time. I spend most of my time going to 
parties. He paused. Yes, I do. I actually 
do spend more time, probably, going to 
parties and having a good time, than I do 
anything else.
As a new, young talent, Brendan Gills 
first novel, The Trouble of One House, won 
the National Book Award for fiction, 
many years ago, shortly before you were 
born, Gill smiled. His collection of short 
stories, Ways of Loving, was extremely 
well-received. Unlike his reviews, which 
tend to be rather stiff and well-shorn, Gills 
fiction is handsome and big, warm in style 
and subject matter. He loves poetry and 
names Marianne Moore and Anne Sexton 
as two of his favorite poets whom he also 
counted as close friends. He, himself, sells 
one or two poems every year to The New 
Yorker.
*Oh I love most writing poetry, and 
theft fiction, then criticism, then fact. Yes, 
fact comes last. It takes so little creative 
energy, whatever that is. to write factually.
Gill was off to an afternoon engage
ment. Earlier that day he had attended a 
meeting of the committee which deter
mines the Tony Award nominations. And 
theyre great this yearnot a bad nominee 
among them. A wonderful theater season.
He autographed a copy of his book for 
me before I left, but I would not look at it 
until much later that day. The cover of 
Here At The New Yorker is by Charles 
Addams. It looks like a cartoon version of 
a Giorgio de Chirico painting, with little 
caricature icons of New Yorker writers and 
cartoonists since 1925. Literati of the past 
and present; coevals, colleagues and friends 
of Gill, the gallery includes Wolcott Gibbs, 
J.D. Salinger, Truman Capote, Robert 
Benchley, Katherine White, Dorothy 
Parker and Gill himself.
As Gill pointy 6ut, many New Yorker 
writers lived sad, reclusive, paranoic lives, 
dying young and alcoholic. Others, like 
Gill, managed to be happy, intensely alive 
and productive. I opened the book, where 
he had written: After some quick ques
tions and answers on a black sofa in The 
HideawayBrendan JGill. And in big 
letters on the bottom:
The first rule of life 
is to have a good time.
AUDITIONS
D.[FIMI AIM PROGRAM
 Wait [>sn*y Productions
Male and ferpale singer-dancers and cheerleaders for 
Summer Work Experience Program at Disneyland 
and Walt Disney World. Salary plus college credit 
in an exciting 11 week performance and workshop 
schedule. Open to all currently enrolled Freshmen, 
Sophomore and Junior college students.
Auditions to be held Sunday, April 20th at:
HOLIDAY INN MIDTOWN PHILADELPHIA, PA 
1305-11 Walnut Street
SNGER-DANCERS (for "Kids of the Kmadom") 10 a.m.(Be prepared to do giuen choreography and sing your own selection. Bring sheet music, an accompanist will be supplied.)
CHEERLEADERS (for "All American Collage Marching Band") 4 p.m. 
. (Be prepared to perform a routine of your own.)
BO .: Y y~JL v . Com vJfniuni.tiicji
1 . *
3?.OQUTfimU10
p l ai lI n

---------------------------------------------------

KEY21-442 Topics in Linear AlgebraFri. 2ASCH 5403
TEST BEGINS:21-477 Boundary Value ProblemsThu. 1ASCH 5328
A 8:30 AM 19:30 AM21-479 Calculus of VariationsThu. 1BSCH 5310
B 1:30 PM 210:30 AM21-485 Mathematical ModelsSat. 3BDH 2315
C7:00 PM 312:30
4 2:30 PMMECHANICAL ENGINEERING
5 6:00 PM24-102 Statics of Deformable Solids 
Sec. AFri. 2ASH 4226 6:30 PMSec. BFri. 2ASH 125
BIOLOGICAL SCIENpES24-112 Fluid Mechanics I
03-121 Modern BiologyTue. 6BDH 2210Sec. AMon. 5ASH 220
03-230 GeneticsTBASec. BMon. 5ASH 422
03-231 Biochemistry IMon. 5BSCH 7500Sec. CMon. 5ASH 324
24-121 Thermodynamics I
CHEMICAL ENGINEERINGSec. ATue. 6SH 125
06-101 Intro, to Chemical EngineeringThu. 1BDH 1112Sec. TThu. 15PH 100
06-201 Chemical Engineering IIWed. 30ADH 111224-150 Engineering Analysis IThu. 1ASH 422
06-202 Chemical Engineering IIISat. 3ADH 210524-160 Engineering Graphics
06-310 Transport PhenomenaFri. 2ADH 2105Sec. TThu. 16SH 422
Sec. UThu. 16PH 225C
CHEMISTRYSec. VWed. 306SH 422
09-104 Intro. Life Sciencb chemistryTue. 6ADH 221024-216 Gas DynamicsFri. 2ASH 206
09-105 Elem. Physical ChemistryWed. 30BSCH 531C24-223 Thermodynamics IIWed. 30ASH 220,224
09-106 Bonding & Structural PrinciplesMon. 5BDH 221024-246 Feedback Control SystemsThu. 1BSH 125
09-109 Intro, to Chem. LabTBA24-249 DynamicsSat. 3ASH 212
09-117 Organic Chemistry ITBA24-251 Engineering Analysis 11Tue. 6BSH 224
09-132 Exper. Tech. in Chemistry IIThu. 1BSCH 750024-291 Engineering EconomicsThu. 1ASH 324
09-142 Physical Chemistry IMon. 5ADH 1112
09-218 Organic Chemistry IITBAMETALLURGY & MATERIALS SCIENCE
09-244 Physical Chemistry IIIFri. 2ADH 221027-131 Materials Science
09-441 Nuclear & RadiochemistryWed. 30AMl 355Sec. ATue. 6ADH A317
09-518 Polymeric MaterialsThu. 1ADH 2122Sec. BTue. 6ASH 125
Sec. CTue. 6ADH 1112
CIVIL ENGINEERING27-217 Transport and KineticsThu. 1ASCH 5427
12-101 Intro, to Engineering PlanningMon. 5BSH 12527-322 Physical Metallurgy IIFri. 27DH A219
12-103 Systems EngineeringWed. 30BPH 10027-332 Process MetallurgyWed. 30ASCH 4327
12-211 Solid MechanicsSat. 3ASH 12527-516 Special TopicsWed. 30ADH A317
12-215 MaterialsTue. 6APH 100
12-325 Soil MechanicsFri. 2APH 123HPHYSICS
12-332 Hydraulic EngineeringWed. 30APH 123H33-116 Introductory PhysicsWed. 30ASCH 5310
12-621 Structural MechanicsWed. 30BPH 123H33-121 Physics IWed. 30ADH 2315
12-636 Environmental! mpact AnalysisThu. 1APH 123B33-122 Physics 11Wed. 30AGym
12-637 Urban Engr. Issues & ProblemsMon. 5BPH 123H33-124 Physics IVTBA
12-638 Urban Trans. Issues & ProblemsFri. oBPH 123H33-134 Modern Physics IMon. 5BSCH 5403
33-436 Physical Mechanics 11Wed. 30ASH 125
COMPUTER SCIENCE33-437 Intermed. Electricity& Mag. IWed. 30AA
15-104 I ntro. to Computing AThu. 1AGym33-437 Intermed. Electricity & Mag. IWed. '30ASCH 5403
15-111 Intro, to Computing BTue. 6ASH 750033-442 Intro. Statistical PhysicsThu. 1ASCH 7316
33-444 Intro, to Nuclear PhysicsMon. 5ASCH 541415-111 Intro, to Computing BTue. 6ASCH 750033-446 Wave MechanicsMon. 5BSCH 731615-200 Adv. Programming MethodsSat. 3ASCH 540333-448 Intro, to Solid State PhysicsFri. 2ASCH 541915-380 Intro, to Artificial IntelligenceThu. 1ADH 2210
STATISTICSELECTRICAL ENGINEERING36-211 Prob. & Applied Statistics IThu. 1BDH 221C18-100 Fund. Electrical EngineeringThu. 1BDH 231536-212 Prob. & Applied Statistics IIWed. 30APH 10018-102 Non-Linear & Active CircuitsSat. 3BDH 221036-216 Probability & Statistics IIWed. 30ASCH 533618-114 Electrical Engineering ll-ASat. 3BSCH 750036-219 Stat. Meth. for Data Analysis IThu. 1BPH 10018-213 Signals, Networks, & TransformsFri. 2APH 10036-220 Data Analysis 1118-224 Electronic Circuits 11Wed. 30BSCH 7500Sec. A (Calculus)Mon. 5ADH 2210
18-234 Computer StructruesSec. B (non-Calculus)Mon. 5ADH 1212
18-234 Computer StructuresFri. 2BSCH 7500
18-310 Information & Communication Theory Sat. 3ADH 2210INTERDISCIPLINARY18-335 Control Systems DesignThu. 14HH 10539-113 Physics of Musical SoundSat. 3ASCH 5419
18-341 Electro-Mechanical Energy Conv.Fri. 2CHH10539-404 Cost Benefit AnalysisTBA
MATHEMATICSMUSIC
21-104 Fundamentals of Mathematics IIFri. 2ASCH 531057-152 Harmony I
21-121 Calculus IWed. 30CSCH 5302Sec. AThu. 1AA
21-122 Calculus IISec. AThu. 1AFA 157
Sec. A (H&SS)Fri. 2ASCH 5427Sec. BThu. 11FA 157
Sec. B-N (CIT-MIS)Fri. 2AGymSec. CThu. 1AFA 160
21-123 Calculus III57-154 Harmony II
Sec. A-CFri. 2ASCH 7500Sec. AFri. 2AFA 160
Sec. TThu. 1CSCH 5302Sec. BFri. 2AFA 157
21 -^141 Linear AlgebraThu. 1BGym57-162 Eurythmies IWed. 30AMM 119
21-142 Foundations of AnalysisFri. 2BSCH 541957-172 Intro, to Music
21 -150 Discrete StructuresTue. 6BSCH 5310Sec. AWed. 30AMM 215
21-224 Linear Analysis & Diff. Equations II Mon. 5ASCH 5419Sec. BWed. 301MM 215
21-255 Advanced Calculus IWed. 30CSCH 531057-174 History of Music IFri. 2AMM 103
21-256 Advanced Calculus IIWed. 30BSCH 541957-182 Ear Train. & Sight Sing. 1
21-258 Higher Math. Soc. & Mgrl. Sci. IIFri. 2ADH 23I5Sec. AThu. 1; 2MM 119
21-259 Higher Math, for E&S IThu. 1CSCH 5310Sec. BThu. 12FA 160
21-260 Higher Math, for E&S IIWed. 30BDH 2210Sec. CThu. 12FA 107
21-280 Numerical MethodsTue. 6ASCH 540357-184 Ear Train. & Sight Sing. 11
21-371 Func. of a Complex VariableMon. 5ASCH 5403Sec. AMon. 5AFA 107

---------------------------------------------------

Sec. BMon. 51FA 107
57-256Counterpoint IMon. 52FA 160
57-258Twentieth Century TechniquesWed. 30AFA 157
57-266Counterpoint 11Mon. 5AFA 157
57-333Instrumental ConductingTue. 6AFA 157
57-334
57-334
Choral Conducting 
Choral Conducting
Tue. 1 
Thu. 13FA 160
57-376Secondary MethodsThu. 11FA 160
57-408Form and AnalysisFri. 21FA 160
57-445Instrumental MethodsWoodwindsMon. 5AMM 14
57-448Score readingThu. 1AFA 107
57-460Vocal DictionThu. 13MM 119
cgtd5diaEcadm5 c5g tc5cbltl5a iDdl5Dl
70-101 Elem. of Industrial Admin.
Sec. A Sat. 3BBH 231
Sec. BSat. 3BBH 232F
70-121Quant. Controls in Bus. I 
Sec. A .Tue. 6BPH 100
Sec. BTue. 6BPH 100
70-123Accounting for Management 
Sec. TWed. 30CIA 213
70-142Math. For Mgt. Sci. 11 
Sec. AMon. 5ABH 231
Sec. BMon. 5ABH 232F
70-144Math, for Management II 
Sec. TMon. 5CIA 225
70-214Administrative Action TThu. 1CIA 8
70-324Statistics for Mgt. 11 TWed. 30CIA 8
70-333Econ. Growth & Fluctuations 
Sec. A 
Sec. B
TBA 
Fri. 2BBH 129 A
70-335Business & LaborWed. 30ABH 129 A
70-361Foundations of LawMon. 5BIA Aud.
70-363Law in Modern Amer. Society 
Sec. TTue. 6CIA Aud.
Sec. TWed. 30CIA Aud
70-371Production IWed. 30BBH 129 A
70-391Finance IFri. 2ABH 331
70-393Financial Analysis TThu. 1CIA 213
70-404Management Game TThu. 1CIA 11
70-444
70-444
Appi. Mgt. Sci. II
Appi. Mgt. Sci. to Bus. Prob. TMon. 5CIA 9
70-463Ideas & Changing Environment TTue. 6CIA 9
70-471Production IIThu. 1ABH 129 A
70-481Marketing IISat. 3BBH 129 A
70-491Finance 11Tue. 6BGH
70-491Finance 11Tue. 6BBH 129 A
ECONOMICS
73-100 Econ. Anal. & Contemp Prob. IFri. 2BDH 2210
73-100Econ. Anal. & Contemp Prob. I 
Sec. TThu. 1CIA 9
Sec. TMon. 5CIA 8
73-200
73-200
Econ. Growth & Fluctuations 
Econ. Growth & Fluctuations 
Sec. T
TBA 
Tue. 6CIA 213
73-360Manpower Econ. Pol. IssuesThu. 1AMM 112
73-360Manpower Econ. Pol. Issues TMon. 5CIA 11
73-456Money, Interest & InflationMon. 5AMM 112
73-459 Cost Benefit Analysis 
ENGLISH
76-102 Understanding & Using English 
76-199 Literary Imagination 
Sec. A
TBA
TBA 
Mon. 5ABH 235A
Sec. BMon. 5A
Sec. BMon. 5ABH 235B
Sec. DMon. 5ABH 132H
Sec. EMon. 5ABH 229B
Sec. FMon. 5ABH 255B
Sec. GMon. 5ABH 932D
Sec. H 
Sec. H
S
Mon. 5APH 226A
Sec. IMon. 5APH 226B
Sec. J/KMon. 5ABH 245
Sec. LMon. 5ABH 232E
Sec. MMon. 5APH 226C
Sec. NMon. 5APH 225B
76-201Biblical & Myth. Back. Eng. Lit.Tue. 6BBH 255A
76-210Medieval LiteratureFri. 2ABH 235B
76-230Seventeenth CenturyWed. 30ABH 132H
76-240The Augustan AgeWed. 30BBH232D
76-252English Lit: Blake to PresentFri. 2ABH232D
76-270 19th & 20th Cen. American Lit. 
76-280
Wed. 30ABH 229E
76-271 The American RenaissanceThu. 1ABH 255B
^6-293 Rites of Passage 
76-321 Shakespeare
Thu. 1BBH 235B
Sec. ATue. 6ABH 235A
Sec. TTue. 6ABH 235B
76-324 Shakespeare's Complete Works 11Thu. 1ABH 255A
76-351 19th Century European Authors 
76-360 20th Centruy British Authors
Mon. 5ABH 132F
Sec. AMon. 5A.PH 25D
Sec. B
76-380 20th Century American Authors
Mon. 5 
TBA
ABH 255A
76-401 English Novel II 
76-405 History of Mystery 
76-406 Modern Novel
Fri. 2 
TBA
BBH 232F
Sec. AThu. 1ABH 245
Sec. BThu. 1AMM 104
76-411 Intro. Read. Poetry & Short FictionFri. 2BBH 245
76-502 Survey of Genres 111Wed. 30BBH 255B
76-503 Survey of Genres IVSat. 3ABH 255A
76-511 Fiction WorkshopTue. 6ABH 245
76-513 Fiction WorkshopFri. 2BBH 255B
76-531 Poetry Workshop 11Wed. 30ABH 255A
76-533 Poetry Workshop IVMon. 5BH 132E
76-560 Exposition IISat. 3BPH 226A
76-561 The New Non-FictionMon. 5BBH 229
76-585 The Art of PersuasionThu. 1BBH 255B
76-606 Tchg. Dev. Read. Writ, to Adult Stu.Wed. 30ABH 255B
76-671 Science FictionMon. 5BBH 232B
76-675 The Writing of ScreenplaysMon. 5BBH 255A
HISTORY & PHILOSOPHY
79-102 Shaping of Western Civ. 11Sat. 3APH 100,125B,
79-103 American CivilizationSat. 3ABH 231
79-104 Emergence of the Urban WorldMon. 5BPH 100
79-241 Racial Relations in Amer. HistoryFri. 2ABH 254A
79-244 Crime in American HistoryFri. 2BBH 231
79-295 Contemporary AmericaThu. 1ASCH 7500
79-421 British History IIThu: 1BBH 232F
79-445 Main Themes in Jewish HistoryMon. 5ABH 254A
79-508 Classics of Social ScienceWed. 30ABH 254A
79-653 Introduction to LogicSat. 3ASCH 7500
79-693 Intermediate LogicFri. 2ABH 130
MODERN LANGUAGES & LITERATURES
82-102 Elementary French 
82-107 Programmed French
Tue. 6 
TBA
ABH 232E
82-112 Intermediate French I; FilmWed. 30ABH 232D.E
82-122 Elementary GermanMon. 5BBH 232E
82-123 Programmed GermanSat. 3ABH 232D
82-136 Intermediate German III: Conver.Wed. 30ABH 229B
82-142 Elementary SpanishFri. 2BBH 232D
82-143 Programmed Spanish
82-156 Intermediate Spanish III: Conver.
Fri. 2 
TBA
BBH 232D
82-162 Elementary RussianThu. 1BBH 232D
82-172 Elementary ItalianTue. 6ABH 232D
82-174 Intermediate ItalianTue. 6ABH 232D
82-182 Elementary HebrewMon. 5BBH 132H
82-240 French Lit. 17th CenturyThu. 1ABH 232D
82-281 French CivilizationMon. 5BBH 235A
82-302 German Conv. & Comp 
82-382 Studies in German Lit.
Thu. 1ABH 232E
Sec. AFri. 2ABH 232E
Sec. BFri. 2ABH 232E
82-630 Translation Workshop: German BWed 30BBH 232E
82-650 Translation Workshop: RussianSat. 3ABH 232E
PSYCHOLOGY & EDUCATION
85-241 Social Psychology
SOCIAL REAL 
SOCAI
SOCIAL RELATIONS
88-101 Socail Analysis 1
Sat. 3 
TBA
ADH 2315
88-103 Social Analysis 11Tue. 6AMM 112
88-105 Finite MathematicsMon. 5AMM 104
88-235 Urban ServicesThu 1AMM 14
Examinations in graduate courses not listed are to be scheduled in the week prior to 
the regular examination period.
GRADES DUE NO LATER THAN 8:30*AM, MAY 8. IN THE MAIL SLOT OF THE 
REGISTRAR'S OFFICE' WARNER HALL 201.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16  Tuesday, April 15,1975
*> 3! f> MS! l 
11
C_A-<S. c-i-r..occvVri^Arr
FicbH'iiNe pe:AC^
fuck!*^ rC^ <=H^XirY
xi*Y& 
Xm
hliW
Is JiUli
it f*-i33fc>9t*r 
h*4C a<u*- 
OOiJeAS tffbacMx*e,~t*b
^^WpliWovi
2K02lto ,lt>n' 5 v ______^I.Ua {33,
please U't fU the ur,n<ls
b*c-*<e ft* t'4*,
1\*=U . ------- -/O^O* ^ 't*' <7<*T*^ 
_ ,u-*^ ueA
pbyStev w- /Tea~r^^
<gSi2ZZZ? &*z-3*2^ .*].?
Who is this woman? Is she a spy? A pecvert? 
Tartan photographer Courtney Larson followed 
this intriguing 'femme Fatal' to see what she was 
up to. This is what he found out.
Wait, isn't that the men's room?
Its difficult to ignore even the least form of. expres
sion at a school as well endowed as Camegie-Mellon. 
Daily, hundreds of attempts at communication, at estab
lishing friendships, and at expressing innermost 
thoughts, are wiped out by the hurried hand of some 
janitor. But this is no attack on janitors; they do their 
jobs well, perhaps too well. But what of all these souls 
who battle daily to express themselves and finally find 
their outlet in the intimate privacy of a bathroom?
Contemporary authors such as Vonnegut and Thomas 
Pynchon are aware of the importance of graffitti. It is 
through this humble means that secret societies of the 
repressed communicate, in special code words 
(Blexcroid?) that no one else understands. However his
tory may treat Vonnegut, he will remain immortal in the 
hearts of graffitti readers and writers all over the world. 
Who could forget the wisdom of his 
v' Some come here to shit and stink,
Others come to sit and think.
Me, I come to scratch my balls, ,
And read the writing on the walls.
Vonnegut speaks for many of us who find relief from 
daily pressures in the cool shade of a bathroom stall.
By Dyke and Fab and Little Dab'illdoya
Well, enough about graffiti. All of you out there have 
read it, seen it written, and probably written some 
yourself (dont be shy, we all do it; come on, be free, 
admit it, talk to your mother about it, she does it too!). 
We are all aware of its merits. Anyway, we now present, 
for your reading pleasure, selected exerpts from Carnegie-Mellons wealth of graffiti. May we suggest that 
you read this in the relaxed atmosphere of your own 
bathroom so that you can combine the safety of familiar 
surroundings with this bit of humorous diversion. Oh, 
by the way, graffiti from womens bathrooms was .col
lected by our wonderful little friend. Little Dabilldoya.
Why is Blexcroid better than Ravioli?
A man without a god is like a fish 
without a bicycle.
Tubular balls. 
The lust of the goat is the bounty of the gods.

---------------------------------------------------

TRAPEZE
Tuesday, April 15, 1975- Page 17
BLEAH, subsidieary of Blexcroid.
Artists are slobs but people are dumb slobs.
Hot to trot.
You can eat an Amazon fart.
Keep repeating: Its only a college. Its only a 
college ...
I love I love ravioli. Being alive!
Gerald Ford played drums for Freddie & The Dreamers.
No matter what you say, David still drives me out of my 
mind!
Vardamans mother is a fish.
Press this button & the toilet will bite your ass.
The present-day dwarf refusers to die!
Edgar Varese 
The,present-day Dada refuses to die!
Glen C. Samson 
The present-day psych student embraces death with 
ardor.
The present-day art student continues to die, every Sat
urday from 4-12.
Math teachers never die. They just reduce to lowest 
terms.
She offered her honour, 
he honoured her offer, 
and all night long 
he was on her and off her.
Burglefurbs.
Arthur Travis Orwell eats uncooked onions.
I resent the nickname computer nurd. The only way 
to succeed in this school is to be on friendly basis 
with Mr. IBM 360. My main goal in life is to get an 
RSTS account.a disciple of IBM.
Everyone in Fine Arts is either a faggot or has a shit 
fetish.
Save paper, leave your pants up.
Look at yourself. Do you like what you see? Our asses 
warm the same seat day after daywhy do we never 
meet?
Push left for jelly roll 
Not a speck of cereal!
Flush twice, its a long way to Skibo.
Wait, can you see what she's writing.
A phone number, a secret message for the enemy.
Woe Men! Curtis dont take no mess!
The Age of Lester is upon us (strike while the iron is 
hot)
R r o  or*rjf ^4 4^ 18
Do androids dream of electric sheep? 
Do jock straps dream of 29 feet?
So polished I can see myself!
Mitre Boxing: Sport of Dwarves.
There once was a man named Bill 
who swallowed an atomic pill.
His navel corroded,
his asshole exploded
and they found his balls in Brazil.
Wunklesnut.
Tin of red herring in heavy oil 
(something of no importance whatever).
Bite my toad.
How sweet speak the lips that have 
no tongue, from the cheeks that never blush!
taut cranes and lions Please press harder for the carbons,
pivot on the temple steps.
F.ARTS
PLEASE NOTE: The object on which you are now 
sitting is not a toilet, but rather a very powerful tele
scope! Dont believe it? Look down and toward the back 
of the bowl (moving genitalia if necessary for a clear 
view) and way up at the top, and way back, you can 
plainly see Uranus\
Who is John Galt?
An intellectual miasma.
He is the velvet carnival.
Watch the skies on Dec. 8th!
Black, 47, 52 269 lbs. 1*. Love to rub bellies.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18  Tuesday, April 15,1975TRAPEZE
you can't 
teach people 
how to write
an interview with 
Allen Wier
*)
<D
"I write to keep death away, to surprise myself, to make discoveries.'
by Lisa Zeidner
Allen Wier sits in his living room near a mammoth 
antique Wurlitzer narrating snapshots of the Texas hill 
country hes from: his grandmother, an old stone jail, 
and a Pearl Beer billboard of a waterfall that he wrote 
into his novel. Allen can be distracted mid-anecdote, 
mid-sandwich to talk about writing. Im viciously ser
ious about writing and about teaching; Tm idealisticI 
hope Ill never be quite satisfied with the level of serious
ness of any writing program, hope therell always be 
ways to improve. Since Allen joined the English faculty 
last fall, he has set up the first student reading program, 
The Pleasures of Merely Circulating. He will go to 
Hollins College next fall, where both he and Dara Wier, a 
poet who is teaching at the University of Pittsburgh 
now, will teach in Virginias Blue Ridge Mountains. A 
much better setting for me, Allen says; All the people 
and business in big cities makes me paranoid.
TARTAN: What do you think a creative writing pro
gram should do ideally?
- ALLEN: Of course you cant teach people to write. 
What a writing program does is teach shortcuts, methods 
a student could learn eventually on his or her own, but 
can maybe pick up more quickly from someone whos 
been writing longer. Workshops give writersan immed
iate audience of serious readers to talk with about their 
work. Workshops produce better readers. Learning to 
articulate criticism of_pther peoples work makes you a 
better critic of your own work, and self-evaluation is a 
large part of the art of writing. Everyone in a workshop 
is both a student and a teacher. Members of a 'workshop 
get creative energy from competing, in the best sense, 
with other members whose work they respect.
TARTAN: Would you encourage students to send 
work out for publication as finished products?
ALLEN: Seeing your work in print is a great incen
tive, though Im gjad some of the things I published as 
an undergraduate were in small, obscure magazines so 
they dont haunt me now. Though much student writing 
is rough, I expect a lot from my students and am not 
surprised when a student writes a first-rate story. A 
teacher shouldnt be condescending, should never say 
youre pretty good, for a studenti\ would be great to 
be bumped out of a magazine by one of your students.
A writer isnt necessarily better because he or she is 
older. I think teachers should be encouraging when the
work merits it, but I think the pat-on-the-back can be 
very insulting criticism. The only way I can teach is to 
be honest, sometimes brutally, and I expect other stu
dents in a workshop to be as critical. Of course, the 
careful critic shows a respect for the writers ability to 
improve.We consider work word by word, line by line, 
in workshop and in individual conferences in my office, 
with the goal of making the next work betterwhich 
may mean scrapping the original. Theres no need to 
worry about discouraging people. If someone can be 
easily discouraged, theyre not going to make a writer 
anyway.
TARTAN: What about sensitivity-training type hos
tilities in a workshop, personal conflicts?
ALLEN: Were never talking about personalities in a 
workshop; were talking about the work. And were 
talking about the work to see what we can learn from it 
to make the next piece better.
Workshops are not for everyone. Writers who are 
looking for praise, which is not the main function of a 
workshop, often want to talk about themselves. Subjec
tive writers who want to express themselves find it hard 
to accept the necessarily artificial nature of the work
shop set-up, and they arent very good critics of other 
members work. Sometimes students want to show off 
finished products, but if a work is finished there is often 
less to learn from it than there is from a promising piece 
that still needs rewriting. Much college writing is an 
exercise, an apprenticeship. The healthiest ego is mainly 
concerned with how to make the work better. The work 
is always more important than momentary personal em
barrassment.
TARTAN: Can you predict which students will 
make writers?
ALLEN: Thats not too important in an under
graduate program as long as students are serious about 
the workshop. Not all members of a workshop will be or 
even intend to be writers all their lives, but they must be 
the semester they are in a workshop. Its valid to take a 
workshop just to discover you dont want to be a writer, 
that youre not willing to make the committment. Com
mittment is most important. Talent is cheap, its the
given. Talent is the part no one can teach. I dont believe 
in the myth of writers as special people tuned in to 
the Muse. Writers are people who are willing to work 
hard. I dont want the Muse to get credit for my work.
TARTAN: How do you respond to people who think 
majoring in creative writing is unreasonable, since it i 
doesnt give a secure, marketable skill?
ALLEN: Its wrong to mislead students into thinking 
serious writers are in demandby serious I mean writers 
who are more concerned with craft and with extending 
the boundaries of language and forms than with publish
ing and selling their work. The value of art is, of course, 
that its not utilitarian; its intrinsically worthwhile. 
Were not concerned with marketability in a workshop. 
In that sense writing seriously is an irrational, totally 
free act. You dont have to worry about a publisher 
telling you to cut your best scene so your novel will sell 
better.
I write to keep death away, to surprise myself, to 
make discoveries. I wouldnt want to write commercial 
fictionsay a TV serial to make enough money for my 
own ranch in Texas where I could devote myself to 
writing seriously again. While I was typing some 200 
page TV script Id keep thinking what I could be typing.
I dont want to be laid up in some hospital stuck full of 
tubes when Im ninety-nine and have to regret the way I 
used my time.
TARTAN: Does teaching fit in with or conflict with 
your writing?
ALLEN: The ndtion of professionalism in teaching 
bothers me. Im still surprised to meet people who 
consider teaching writing just a job to support their 
writing habit. Its an easy, and lousy, excuse to say 
teaching stifles your writing. Teaching lets me stay in 
constant contact with the work Im in competition with. 
Explaining problems to students, trying to suggest tech
niques for them to try * in their work, helps me re
discover techniques for my work. I try to be as creative 
about teaching as I am about writing. I love to talk 
about writing and about teaching. When I first started 
teaching Id go to faculty parties naively excited, expect
ing to talk about fiction, and find that other teachers 
didnt want to talk shop, would rather talk golf and 
politics and whats on sale at the Red & White. The first

---------------------------------------------------

TRAPEZE
.1
Tuesday, April 15, 1975 - Page 19
"A teacher shouldn't be condescending, should never say'you're 
pretty good for a student'. .. There's no need to worry about discouraging 
people. If someone can be discouraged, they're not going to 
writer anyway."
thing I want to do when I meet a writer is to read his or 
her work; Im more interested in their work than in 
liking them personally.
TARTAN: What would you like to see improved 
about CMLPs creative writing program?
ALLEN: Im surprised that students dont demand 
more from their teachers here. Very few students have 
asked to read my work. I know I would want to read a 
writers stuff before I worked with him or her. Students 
should attach themselves, vampire like, to a teacher, get 
what they can, and then move on to someone else.
I think its a shame, in an undergraduate writing 
program, that students have to choose a genre.
Only graduate writing courses should be divided into 
poetry, fiction, playwrighting. Or, at least, only the 
advanced undergraduate workshops should be set up by 
genre. There is such a great deal a fiction writer can learn 
from writing poemsabout rhythm, images, economy; 
and the poet can learn much from the elements of 
fiction. Writers of fiction and poetry should experiment 
in other genres. Att good writing is creative, all bad 
writing is not creative.^A good critical essay must be as 
creative as a poem or short story and most of the 
k techniques are the same. If workshops were mixed,
1 poetry and fiction, students would get more experience 
transforming raw material into various forms.
I think it would be good if a specific sequence of 
courses were followed; beginners should begin together. 
A first workshop should be a special experience, a time 
for important initial discoveries growing out of more 
structured exercises, while advanced workshops need 
more freedom.
I
Applications are now being taken for 
DIRECTOR & ASSISTANTS 
of
FORBES STREET 
GALLERY
FORMS AVAILABLE AT SKIBO 
INFORMATION DESK 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: APRIL 22,1975
Id like to see more visiting writers at CarnegieMellon, and Im sure everyone else concerned with the 
program would toothats, of course, a problem of 
money. Also I wish more interaction could take place 
between the writing programs at the University of Pitts
burgh and Camegie-Mellonmore of our students going 
over there when they have a visiting writer and viceversa. Often this is a simple matter of knowing whats 
going on at each school. I think Three Rivers Press 
deserves more attention. Gerry Costanzo has done a lot 
with that in a short time. Having the press and the Three 
Rivers Poetry Journal and the Oakland Review should 
help attract good writers, both students and teachers, to 
Camegie-Mellon. And, of course, thats the main thing, 
whos here writing.
TARTAN: What do you think of CMLPs plans to start 
a graduate creative writing program?
ALLEN: Camegie-Mellon has a good undergraduate 
program that should continue to get even better. There 
are already enough graduate schools with writing pro
grams, producing writers who cant get teaching jobs. I 
understand the University of Pittsburgh is talking about 
starting an M.F.A. program in writing. So many graduate 
programs begin to work against one another. I think it 
would be wiser for Camegie-Mellon to continue to. 
develop the undergraduate program (there are not very 
many undergraduate writing programs), possibly one day 
offering a B.F.A. in writing. I have heard talk of making 
a distinction between people who want to be writers and 
people who want to be writing teachers. I cant under
stand that. Who is better qualified to lead a workshop 
than a writer?
TARTAN: How can you evaluate what is happening 
in a creative writing program, in a workshop?
ALLEN: To a large degree its the event thats im
portant, not just the quality of the work at the time. 
The work will likely improve if the concepts are learned. 
If Im giving a student a grade on a piece of work I owe 
that student a thorough evaluation. If the grade is an A I 
owe that student as much justification and attention as I 
do if the grade is an F. When someone is doing good 
work they need to know just what is good. You may 
stumble into art unconsciously, then you need to an
alyze it consciously so you can remember those good 
techniques and repeat them.
The event in a writing program may be a great work
shop session during which you discussed a terrible piece 
of writing; it may be a poetry or fiction reading which is 
powerful and moving as performance, even if the work is 
not memorable. A writing program gives you living read
ers, listeners, who can talk back. The good tension 
between writers in a workshop or at a reading is like the 
energy between you and a storyteller sitting across the 
campfire gesturing and whispering in the shadows. There 
is an immediate gratification in that kind of feedback 
and theres a lot you can learn from that audience before 
you go do the romantic, lonely thing locked in your 
tower with your typewriter.

---------------------------------------------------

TRAPEZE
Page 20  Tuesday, April 15, 1975
Automating 
Chromosome 
Analysis
by Sharon Curcio
The examination of irregularities in chromatic 
patterns is the research subject of two graduate students 
in the Electrical Engineering Department. Kuang-YuhChang, a Taiwanese national and graduate of the Univer
sity of Tennessee, with the help of Yasuhiko Hara (a 
graduate of the University of Tokyo and a representative 
of a Japanese firm, the HitachiCompany), reassembled a 
scanning microscope donated to CMU by the Perkin 
Elmer Company for the purpose of developing a method 
of automating chromosome recognition.
Dr. Preston Kendall, professor of Electrical Engineer
ing, began to explore the use of the scanning microscope 
for pattern recognition in the late 60s. He described the 
Chang-Hara team as one being the theoretician and the 
other the engineer, and said that they were probing a 
virtually unexplored area of research. Dr. Preston ex
plained: Today we know very little, or practically no
thing, about the function of the eye and the brain. Yet 
what Chang and Hara are attempting to do is to replace 
the human eye with a TV camera and the brain with a 
computer as they try to automate chromosome analysis. 
Presently a chromosome examination costs $200.00 
since the genetic material to be viewed under the micro
scope requires chemical preparation and about 10 manhours of looking through the microscope to complete 
the genetic study. Theoretically, all newborns should 
have an examination or a chromosome profile taken, but 
there simply arent the facilities available for this, regard
less of the cost. Automation of the chromatic analysis 
would allow geneticists or medical people to find out if a 
child will become mentally retarded, since mental retar
dation is genetically linked and tends to appear later in 
life. In fact, automation of the process would allow 
scientists to examine fetal tissue for these potential 
disorders.
To clarify why examination of chromosome structure 
is so important, Chang explained that the normal chro
mosome structure is X shaped. Some of the genetic 
irregularities taht they have detected concern chromo
somes that are ring-shaped and those that are fragmented 
with the arms of the X broken apart. Chang mention
ed that in cases of exposure to radiation these abnormal
ities have been passed from parent to offspring. Early 
observation of these abnormal patterns would help 
health authorities to prevent those with such damage 
from exposing themselves to further radiation, comBecause This Night is No Different 
Than Any Other Night
The rule was no shoes, the rule,
ridiculous in light of
beered and splintered floorboards.
Boots sculptured the corner in compliance, 
sneakers leaped from submissive feet.
Every body boogied.
Ate popcorn with apparent intoxication: 
Kernels trickling. Dribbling down 
chins, sticking, falling over ladies tits.
Every one.
You asked me to dance.
I refused not because you are obese 
or because your acne will never fade.
Just,
because.
mented Chang. As Dr. Preston pointed out, if chromo
some analysis were to replace the blood test required of 
engaged couples, genetically-linked birth defects could 
be predicted with a higher degree of accuracy. Chang 
mentioned that, although the University of Pittsburgh 
was involved in pattern research and automated recog
nition, there is still difficulty in detecting chromosome 
overlap. He illustrated this problem by suggesting that 
someX-shaped chromosomes link together, with the 
arms joining in the middle of the structure and open 
on either end. He said that this dicentric pattern along 
with the overlap situation posed difficulties, since the 
plane viewed through the microscope is a flat surface 
and no layers or dimensions appear to indicate whether 
the pattern is abnormal or whether two normal chromo
somes are superimposed upon each other).
Dr. Preston furnished more detail concerning the 
research in this area as conducted by the University of 
Pittsburgh. Their studies have examined what changes in 
chromosome structure occur in those exposed to radio
active material - workers in atomic energy plants, for 
example, or those who mine radioactive materials. Since
Ida
This struck me as most moving: 
her laughter, defined in muted quivers, 
hindered by breathless hacks 
of etched nicotine.
She adored fathers dirty jokes,
Though I never could master 
the shocking thinness of her fingers.
A study of freckles and 
protruding bones.
My eyes belong to her.
For years she consumed me, while I, 
accused of inhaling her carelessly, 
received the opal ring 
and porcelain duck.
I refused to accept
her grandmother clock,
with hands that too slowly revolved.
by Terry Horwitz
exposure to radiation destroys cellular functioning, 
much exposure to radiation necessarily shortens life. The 
research staff at the University of Pittsburgh are 
attempting to determine how much radiation a worker 
was exposed to by examining the victims blood sample. 
The cost of such an individual examination in an emer
gency situation is between $200 and $300 but the 
Federal Government absorbs this expense. The Pitt 
researchers hope to predict how much radiation the 
worker was exposed to by finding out what types of 
chromatic peculiarities occur and how many of these 
types occur. In this sense, an automated process of 
chromosome pattern recognition would help to measure 
radirtion damage of human chromosomes. Dr. Preston 
also suggested that the process may be used in the future 
to monitor the effects of pollutants on genetic materials, 
and perhaps that cculd lead scientists to isolate what 
environmental factors or abnormalities cause such 
damage. Certainly automation of the pattern recog
nition process would allow us to examine human mater
ial and measure the effects of the environment on our 
health, concluded Professor Preston.
Tutoring for beginning 
ENGINEERING & SCIENCE 
classes 
is now available from 
Peer Help 
BH 150A or 621-9900
UNIVERSITY COPY SERVICE
209 N. Craig St. 681-5411
LOWEST PRICES 
FOR COPIES
SINGLE COPIES...................................5
MULTIPLE COPIES
1st Copy................................................4C
2-50 Copies....................................... 3C
51 or more copies.................................2*
Call about our large volume rates and delivery ser
vice - or any special copying needs.
Colating..............................................No Extra Charge
Legal Size............................................No Extra Charge
3 Hole Punched .................................No Extra Charge
2 Side Copying...................................No Extra Charge
ALSO
 OFFSET PRINTING  LOWCOST BOOKBINDING
SOFT COVERS $ .85 and up HARD COVERS $3.50 and up

---------------------------------------------------

, Tuesday, April 15,1975 - Page 21TRAPEZE
THE RETURN
The Lighthouse Keeper
"The white arms out in the breakers tirelessly tossing
Whitman
These winters circle round 
and round like a frozen 
dog chasing its tail, 
and I shiver in its dead.
The cold months 
fell subtly on Paris.
It snowed 
and the people 
bridges and -trees all had 
one thing in common and for 
an hour, the city was its dream: 
a picture. Soon
the snow was a white memory.
Im in the grip 
of the old insistent cold 
again, with snow a long 
repeating history of footprints 
of dogs, cavorting, 
running in circles.
by James Saltmar
This place is nowhere to be.
The sky above this sea-town is dark, 
is raining children everywhere.
Gathering in gutters, in pools on rocks, 
everywhere children falling, falling.
The boardwalk seems dark with sweat.
Neon lights burn
in the lining of their skin
as they swell the streets with their desire.
This place is nowhere to be.
Each grain of sand is a voice, 
incomplete and yearning.
The years sift them through my sleep. 
But this night I am awake. I see 
the white arms boiling in the surf,
white arms struggling in the damp rooms 
of the sea, calling, calling to me 
as I keep my watch at the light.
I see towards dawn and cant forget 
the new moon touching the horizon 
like a white eyelash caught by the sea.
by Paul K. Barry
Parachuting
under his belt. We all put on jump suits (ah, so thats 
why they call it a jump suit!) and went out to the actual 
target area, a thirty-foor wide tircle made of small pea 
gravel. We were assured that from 3000 feet up, that 
target looked very small indeed.
by Larry Denburg
Get your legs out!
I swung my feet out the door.
Okay, get out!
I stepped out onto the strut.
GO!
I went. And thats when it hit me ...
I had just stepped out of a perfectly good airplane.
Now, I cant say that Ive always had a craving to 
jump out of planes; my involvement in sky-diving is 
relatively recent. All through last year, a friend of mine 
named Dave had been trying to turn me on to the sport. 
A few weeks ago as we were walking across the Cut he 
said, Hey, tomorrows weather ij> supposed to be really 
great. Want to try skydiving this weekend? Now, Ive 
always wondered what it would be like to fall, I mean 
really fall, like in a dream. Just to drop through the sky
endlessly, knowing youd be safe afterwards. Hell, I told 
him yes.
Dave gave me instructions on how to get out to the 
drop zone. (It turned out that they were training stu
dents on Friday night.), told me what to wear, who to 
see, what to expect and to enjoy myself. No sweat.
Finding the place was a different story. Daves dir
ections had brought me into the middle of some real 
down-home farmland with a fork in the road. Correc
tion: a triple fork. Here his directions ended. I got out of 
the car to take a look around when suddenlycould it 
be fate?I saw two parachutes floating through the sky 
to my left. I jumped back in the car and followed the 
canopies down to the drop zone. Dave had warned me 
not to expect anything fancy (... now, this is just a 
club, remember. It isnt as big or as flashy as a powered 
aviation center, so the costs are kept down ... ) but 
the place had a good sized hangar, a couple of planes and 
some equipment I couldnt recognize.
I met my fellow students (all female) and our in
structor, a guy named Gordy with not quite 500 jumps
Among other things,
THETUCKERS
Have
Used, Rare, & Out-of-Print BOOKS
 For Study or Pleasure - For Owning or Giving  
(Free Search Service, Too!)
2703 MURRAY AVENUE, SQUIRREL HILL
(Around the corner from the Squirrel Hill Theater)
521-0249 
(Hours flexible - best call ahead)
Gordy had us spend- quite some time doing PLFs 
(parachute landing falls). Theyre that neat commando 
roll you see the GIs do in late-night World War II 
movies. The idea is that you distribute the landing shock 
across the side of your body in slow increments, and 
thus avoid getting hurt. Or, as Gordy so succinctly put 
it, If you drop 2800 feet perfectly, only to screw up 
and break a leg in the last two inches, youre a real 
asshole. Well, we couldnt find any fault with that 
reasoning, so we practiced until we had them down.
The training session continued till late, covering every 
minute detail involved in the techniques, form and 
rationale behind sky-diving. When he was satisfied that 
we knew our stuff, Gordy let us go, saying that hed see 
us tomorrow. Bright and early, remember! And eat 
light.
B'NAI BRITH HILLEL-JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
BAGEL &LOX BRUNCH
Sunday, April 20  11 A.M.
Chatham College 
Conover Room in Mellon Center
PROF. FRED ADELMAN on "WOMEN: AN ANTHROPOLOGICAL VIEW
315 S. BELLEFIELD AVENUE (ACROSS FROM HEINZ CHAPEL) 
621-8875Cost for food: $1.00

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22-THE TARTAN-April 15. 1975
For The Eves Only
Give this Man a Degree
by Arnie Karr
Bill Currie is the most exciting, most 
entertaining personality on Pittsburgh tele
vision. Though hes only been in the Steel 
City for four years and his background and 
voice are totally Southern, his cheerful 
sarcasm and linguistic dexterity have made 
him, along with Bob Prince and Myron 
Cope, one of the citys legendary sports 
voices (Ive always found Curries infinitely 
easier to take than the Pete Smith-like 
moan of Cope). Anyone whos ever seen a 
KDKA-TV newscast would agree that Bill 
Curries effervescent charm and irreverent 
sports comments make it worth sitting 
through the rest of the days news.
I spoke briefly with Sweet OF Bill in 
Sue Christians office just before his April 
7th lecture on Sports Phenomena. Look
ing surprisingly like the face we see on the 
news five nights a week, Currie was friend
ly, eager to discuss his life and work and 
just as intelligent and humorous as he is 
during his newscasts. The following inter
view will bear me out on this.
ARNIE KARR:* Im talking with Bill 
Currie. Would a correct title be KDKATV Sports Reporter and Commentator? 
BILL CURRIE: No, Im Sports Director. 
You be sure to get that. It dont mean a 
damn thing, but it sounds big.
AK: On the air, you often allude to your 
experiences before coming to KDKA. 
Could you give us some background infor
mation on yourself?
BC: Well, you know, this was all a com
plete accident cause I grew up during the 
time of the Great Depression and, in those 
days, it wasnt so much what kind of job 
you could get, but could you get any kind 
of job. When I was in high school in High 
Point [North Carolina], I had an oppor
tunity to write the high school sports for 
the local paper.Didnt get any pay for this, 
but you got to go on the trips with the 
team, which was a great luxury in those 
days. After Id done that for a couple of 
years, I got a summer job on the paper as a 
City Reporter. I was fifteen years old then, 
and I covered the city court, little thingsyou know, routine. By the time I was six
teen, I could handle a telegraph desk.
AK: Where and how did you learn to 
write?
BC: I could write fairly well. I wasnt a 
creative writer. I was a technical writer. I 
could write news. Then I got a scholarship 
to Catawba College, doing their sports pub
licity because they couldnt afford to hire 
anyone; but they gave me a free ride and I 
did their publicity. Then I did three years 
in the service. After that, I went back to 
work on the High Point Enterprise again.
That paper, which had a circulation of 
about twenty-two thousand in a town of 
about fifty thousand, had an outstanding 
staff. My boss later became Chief of the 
Associated Press bureaus in Athens and 
later Cairo. The City Editor, today, is 
Associate Editor of the Atlanta Journal. 
The Telegraph Editor is now editor of 
Etude Magazine in New York. All of the 
people that I worked with there were ex
tremely good news people of impeccable 
integrity. Thats why I have such strong 
morals about news and have had to go into 
sports because news can now be man
euvered and frequently is in all media.
AK. How did you get into broadcasting?
BC: After the war, I came back and radio
was expanding rapidly. So our newspaper 
built a radio station and they had to have a 
sports announcer. Of course, they didnt 
have anybody so they came to me and said, 
OK, Bill, youre a sports announcer. 
Well, Ive never been on the radio in my 
life and Im scared to death and I dont 
know a damn thing about it, but, just by 
trial and error and talking to people, I 
finally got to where I was adequate. I 
decided that there was more money in 
broadcasting than there was in newspapers. 
I got into broadcasting full-time by going 
to Winston-Salem, which is a much larger 
city, and there I did nothing but sports. I 
did baseball. I had done many ball games, 
but Id never worked as an announcer. Im 
a very poor announcer, even now. If youve 
ever heard me, you know I read poorly.
AK: I heard you do a Steeler game, and I 
really enjoyed it.
BC: I can do a ball game, but when I sit 
down to do a fifteen-minute newscast, its
the eighth and ninth grades who was 
really tough. I can diagram a sentence. Ill 
recite the rules for a comma. I know this 
stuff cold. I went to college and, when 
everyone was flunking Freshman English, I 
got an A without the book because I learn
ed it in high school. I tell everybody, For 
Gods sake, learn the English language.
I was Operations Manager of a TV 
station. I did the hiring and firing, and I 
used to have college graduates come in 
every Spring and they wanted jobs as 
writers and reporters. I would say, Name 
the eight parts of speech. They couldnt 
do it. And I said, Man, how can you write 
if you dont understand the language?1 Its 
like an engineering course giving you a 
schematic drawing and all the pieces and 
asking you to put it together. Well, if you 
cant read the drawing, theres no way 
youre gonna assemble the machine. I urge 
people to learn the English language.
AK: Do you consider your treatment of
tnterianmen
really a disaster. Its hard for me to be 
serious, because if I mess up, I have to 
laugh cause theyre all laughing.
AK: Youre also accustomed to writing 
your own copy.
BC: Yes, I write everything that I use. Of 
course, I have read tons of AP and UPI 
wirtf-copy working at small stations. We 
re-write everything at KDKA, but thats a 
big operation which Im not used to by any 
means.
AK: How long have you been at KDKA? 
BC: Four years. I was hired there in the 
twilight of my career because they wanted 
someone who wouldnt be like Dick Stock
ton, who was young and dynamic and ser
ious. They wanted an older guy and I was 
the perfect vehicle for what they wanted to 
do. I worked cheap ... I had a good thing 
-in North Carolina at the time. I did foot
ball and basketball for the University of 
North Carolina for twenty-three years. I 
did ABA basketball, too. My network was 
feeding sixteen or seventeen stations. I was 
making pretty good money, but I really 
wanted an opportunity to work in a major 
market.
So this guy calls me from KDKA, which 
is the pioneer radio station of all time-I 
used to listen to it on a crystal set as a kid. 
I said, God, could it possibly be? So I 
decided that Id go and try it and so I came 
up here. Ive never regretted it. I really like 
Pittsburgh. I like KDKA. Ive learned how 
a big station operates.
AK: What benefits do small radio stations 
offer?
BC: Theres nothing in a radio station that 
I cant do. I even have a First Class Engin
eers license. Ive climbed the tower and 
put the beacon light in. I can do anything 
in a radio station. Not well, but enough to 
get by.
AK: Do you have any suggestions for 
young broadcasters or news-persons?
BC: Well, I never took any formal journal
ism classes and I frequently discourage stu
dents from taking them. I always tell them 
that the basis of any success is a knowledge 
of the English language because, no matter 
what you are, youve got to transact your 
business in English.
I had a high school English teacher in
the language, in any way, to be very 
proper?
BC: I butcher the English language on the 
air, and I do so intentionally. Then, every 
once in awhile, Ill throw in a very scholar
ly and erudite sentence to let all the college 
professors know that I can read and write 
if push comes to shove.
AK: Often, I get the feeling from your 
commentaries that youre satirizing Cosell
and others who go right into the thesaurus 
and try to pull out as many big words as 
they can. Is this intentional?
BC: Yes, I do that because your big-time 
broadcasters on TV are always coming up 
with these bits of trivia and all these facts 
and figures. Some poor guys done all this 
research and laid out all these cards. I dont 
use any of that mess. I think its boring. I 
like to have something spontaneous, some
thing witty. If you can m<.' e people laugh 
without detracting from the accuracy of 
the broadcast, I think thats more interest
ing than all that statistical data. I mean, if 
your Daddy owns a hardware store in 
Keokuk, Iowa, what difference does that 
make if you just made a great tackle?
AK: What is your opinion of people like 
Baseball Commissioner Bowie Kuhn and 
Footh ill Commissioner Pete Rozelle?
BC: ! like them both. Theyre both friends 
of nvie, but its a misnomer to call them 
corn nissioners. That has a connotation 
of in.partiality, of fairness. This isnt true. 
Mr. Kuhn works for the people who own 
the baseball clubs and Rozelle for the guys 
that own the football clubs. Heres an 
exam )le:
Al out three, four years ago, Sam MacDowi 11 was pitching for the Cleveland 
Indians. He had a contract that called for 
him to make something like fifty thousand 
dollars and then five thousand for each 
game he won over fifteen. Well, he won 
twenty-eight games that year. As it turned 
out, he had an illegal contract. You cannot 
have contingencies in a baseball contract. 
So Cleveland reports to the Commissioner, 
continued on page 23
r~2EM
fao/wiit /6
V f- .fVa/
Jf*
 history/humanities/languages
british literature-poetry-marxismcreative writing-logic-portuguese 
german-chinese-japanese-spanishreligious studiesfrenchitalian
 social sciences/education
political science-cultural pluralism 
counseling-public policyeconomicsanthropology- psychologyeducation
 special programs and institutes
program in environmental earth sci
ences and city and regional planningmarine geologythe samuel beckett 
workshophopkins marine station
write or call for summer visitor 
information
. JLjkiM
 sciences/mathematics/technology
aeronautics & astronauticsphysics 
geologybiology computer scienceindustrial engineering-statisticselectrical engjneering-chemistry
 practica
art history-self defense-directingcomputer-generated musicstudio artbaroque musicmodern danceacting
 and
you can live on the campus and enjoy 
the cultural and recreational benefits 
of the san francisco bay area
Stanford summer visitor program 
stanford, california 94305 
(415) 497-2872

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANApril 15. 1975-Page 23
EVENTS: RATED 'G'
Beginning on Friday, April 18, La Bastille
Dinner Theatre will present the Betty Caplan Production of Curley McDimple. The 
show will run every Wednesday, Friday and 
Saturday at 8:30 pm.
Curley McDimple is a nostalgic 
journey back to the thirties. It recaptures
all the light-hearted gaity of those Good 
Old Days when audiences were captivated 
by one little curly haired moppettShirley 
Temple-alias Curley McDimple. In this 
delightful off-Broadway hit, Curley is 
joined by a band of her most loved friends. 
Together they will entertain you with a 
potpourri of lively songs and dances.
La Bastille, which is located at One 
Oliver Plaza, offers a special package deal 
for dinner and the show. However, patrons 
may come for the show alone. In either 
case, it is recommended that reservations 
be made in advance. La Bastille provides 
complimentary parking, in addition to an 
evening of good food and entertainment.
Come tp the Cynthia Lee and Gary Chang
Senior Music Composition Recital on 
Thursday, April 17, 1975, 8:00 pm at Ex
hibition Hall in the Carnegie-Mellon Fine 
Arts Building.
Works of Bach and Haydn will be heard in
a spring concert by the Bach Choir of Pitts
burgh, to be presented in Trinity Cathed
ral, Sixth Avenue, downtown, on Monday, 
April 21 at 8:00 pm.
The Bach Choir, consisting of nearly 
100 singers from the Pittsburgh area, will 
be conducted by W. William Wagner in a 
performance of J.S. Bachs Cantata Num
ber 29, We Praise Thee, O God and Joseph 
Haydns Mass in Time of War. The Choir 
will be assisted by four soloists familiar to 
local audiences. They are: Barbara
Nowicki, soprano; Barbara Stamy, contral
to; John Klingensmith, Jenor; Thomas 
Dean, bass-baritone. Accompaniment will 
be by Jack Purcells Chamber Ensemble, 
with Kenneth Axelson featured at the 
organ.
Tickets are available at all Kaufmanns 
stores, Sears, Hornes downtown and Pitt 
Student Union. Admission is $3.00, $2.00 
for students.
Camelot Productions will present The
Sound of Music beginning Thursday, 
April 10 at the Plaza Theatre.
One of the most popular musicals in 
American musical comedy history, The 
Sound of Music is based on the auto
biography of Maria von Trapp, adapted as a 
drama by Howard Lindsay and Russel 
Crouse.
The score by Richard Rodgers and 
Oscar Hammerstein II features such timetested hits as Climb Every Mountain, 
My Favorite Things, Do Re Mi, and 
the title song, The Sound of Music.
The production will run Thursdays 
through Sundays, April 10-27 and Friday, 
Saturday and Sunday, May 2-4. Curtain 
times are 8:30 pm Thursdays through Sat
urdays and 7:30 pm on Sundays.
Following close on the heels of The 
Sound of Music will be the hilarious 
comedy A Funny Thing Happened on the 
Way to the Forum, Fridays, Saturdays 
and Sundays, May 9 through June 1.
All performances will be held at the 
Plaza Theatre, 4765 Liberty Avenue, Pitts
burgh 15224. Student and group discounts 
are available.
Reservations may be obtained by calling 
Camelot Productions at 481-6406.
Its all Greek to Scotch n Soda. For the
forty-fifth year in a row, CMLTs musical 
theater club will produce an original 
musical comedy. This time around, the 
book is based on the lyric comedy, 
Amphitryon 38 by Jean Giradoux. The 
title came about after Giradoux realized 
that his version was approximately the 
thirty-eigth re-working of the classic 
Amphitryon legend. Scotch n Soda invites 
you to attend their Amphitryon, the 
thirty-ninth try at this old Greek romance. 
Michael Simon composed the score, with 
lyrics by John Spritz. The direction and 
book-adaptation are being handled by 
William Turner, of the Drama Department.
The cast includes Thea Moskat, Andrew 
Gillies, Barry Lipsitz, Laurel Felix, 
Rebecca Roll, Dale Amon, Nonie Dempsey, 
and Thomas Schwartz. Amphitryon will 
be performed in the round, with sets
designed by Calvin TsJo and costumes by 
Paula Shubock. Tickets are available at the 
door before each performance. The 
musicals run extends from April 11-19 
(excluding Sunday).
THE LATIN AMERICAN CLUB PRESENTS:
Los Olvidados 
(The Young and the Damned)
Directed by Luis Buuel
Wed. April 23 P.H. 100 7:30 p.m.
FREE
funded by A.B.
Amphitryon, the Scotch V Soda musical production 
plays through this weak end.ror the ever cn
continued from page 22
We have signed an illegal contract. Well, 
Kuhn comes down hard on them, fining 
them a full five thousand dollars and null
ifying the contract. Clevelands delighted 
to pay the money to get out of what 
turned out to be a very expensive contract, 
but its not equitable because Sam got beat 
out of all that money. It made it look as 
though Bowie Kuhn had punished the team 
when indeed he had helped the team.
AK: How do you feel about the Yankees 
paying Catfish Hunter 3.5 million dollars?
BC: I think thats wonderful. If Catfish 
Hunter can get 3.5 million, then hooray for 
him! I happen to have been the first person 
to ever interview him cause I staggered 
into the As training camp ten, twelve years 
ago. I was late, the team was gone and 
there were these three rookies about to go 
back to the Minors standing around. I 
needed somebody so I walked up to this 
guy and introduced myself and he said, 
Im Jim Hunter from Hertford, North 
Carolina. I said, How do you do, Jim? 
Im from High Point. What are you doing? 
and he said, Well, Im trying to be a 
pitcher. So I said, Lets do an interview. 
Maybe youll be a big pitcher some day. 
He said, I doubt it, but we did it and I 
still have it.
If he can get all that money from the 
Yankees-if they havent got more sense 
than that-Im delighted for him. Of 
course, it sets a bad precedent. I dont 
know what the end result will be but, per
sonally, I think its great. I think the guy 
that works is entitled to all the money he 
can get.
AK: You feel the same way about broad
casters, I presume.
BC: I sure do. I think its fine. Of course, 
like when Sandy Koufax retired and they
signed him to a one-hundred thousand 
doll tr a year broadcast contract and he 
cant string two words together, thats un
fair to me and to hundreds of guys in small 
towns who are good but never get a chance 
because some jock who cant do the job 
gets it.
AK: Are there any athletes who you feel 
have made good broadcasters?
BC: Garagiola is outstanding. Stive Blass 
will make a good one if he retires. Hed be 
absolutely super. The guys intelligent, 
witty, he has a great command of the 
language and he can write. They talk about 
him going to Channel 4. Hell help them, 
believe me. I sure dont want him in Pitts
burgh.
AK You were with the Pirates in Florida. 
Howd they look?
BC: They look like a bunch of guys in 
baseball suits. I couldnt tell. Ive never 
playea baseball, but Ive watched it for 
years and years and I did think that Sam 
MacDowell,if he can stay sober, will make 
it because he cap throw a ton. He throws 
hard, and he throws accurately.
Currie started his lecture immediately 
after this interview. He opened his dis
cussion with a confession-he does not 
hold a college degree, but would be happy 
to accept an honorary degree should CMU 
decide to confer one upon him.
So, how about it, CMU? Bill Currie has 
continually show# that he knows the 
English language, and, even more impor
tantly, that he cares about it. (English pro
fessors should also note that he possesses 
an uncanny ability at story-telling, often 
lapsing into personal accounts of past 
events in the present tense-AN IMPOR
TANT SKILL!!) I strongly suggest that we 
givf him that degree before some big 
jock school has a chance to correct this 
academic injustice.
Jt ili lSllJbSJ ilCllgiUJ IVUtiJC liJUl  ubtl 1

---------------------------------------------------

Page 24-THE TARTAN-April 15,1975
SKIBO
Jf 
: ^,PIZZA PARLOR
OPEN 
APRIL 17thru 19 
THURS. FRI. SAT.
^ '-^y? ONLY
6 P.M. to 1A.M.
FEATURING
9 inch 6 cut CHEESE PIZZA
FOR 1.25
(PEPPERONI AND MUSHROOMS
EXTRA)
iteH '&iu f.r..:; .-* of-. ;
Cold Can Beverages H OT H O AG IES 80*
_____ *X

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-April 15, 1975-Page 2
events: films:
Thursday, AprtM7
12:30 pmSweepstakes Design JudgingGym
4:00 pmCarnival Kick-Off Dance "Mr. Wizard"Skibo Patio
5:30 pmMidway OpensSkibo Parking Lot
5:30 pmJazz Band ConcertSkibo Parking Lot
8:30 pmScotch & SodaBallroom
10:00 pmFireworksStadium
12:00 pmMidway Closes
Friday, April 18
9:00 amSweepstakes PreliminaryBuggy CourseDELIVERANCE
12:00 pmSDC PicnicI.M. Field6:00,8:30, 11:00DH2210
12:00 pmKite FlyingI.M. Field
1:00 pmFrisbee ContestI.M. Field *AMERICAN GRAFFITI
2:00 pmMidway opens; Arts and Crafts opensSkibo Parking Lot6:30,9:00, 11:30PH 100
2:30 pmWater Balloon BattleFootball Field
4:00 pmRelay EventsFootball FieldROY BUCHANAN CONCERT
7:00 pmArts & Crafts Festival Closes7:30,11:00Gym
8:30 pmScotch & SodaBallroom
12:00 amMidway Closes
Saturday, April 19
-
9:00 amSweepstakes FinalsBuggy CourseDELIVERANCE
12:00 pmMidway opens; Arts and Crafts opensSkibo Parking Lot6:00,8:30, 11:00DH220
1:30 pmPlank Joust, Tug of WarLawn across from Midway
6:00 pmArts & Crafts ClosesAMERICAN GRAFFITI
8:30 pmScotch & SodaBallroom6:30,9:00,11 -30PH100
10:00 pmMidway Closes
10:30 pmAwards CeremonyGym
11:00 pmDance: ''The Rhythm K'^gjThistle Hall

---------------------------------------------------

Page 26-THE TARTANApril 15, 1975
sports
Crime In The Streets
*
i?
by the Compubookie
Editors Note: The Compubookie is a little 
green gnome who lives underneath Panther 
Hollow Bridge and who comes out once a 
year to make comments and predictions on 
the buggy races. 1. Sigma Nu- Everyone 
felt the Hornets sting last year, but no one 
is worried because this years fifth place 
trophy is nicer than last years first place 
trophy. Besides it might be easier to hold 
onto a fifth place trophy. The Zoo better 
hope that last years 48 second roll doesnt 
turn into a three minute egg. If theyre 
hungry theres always Campbells soup whi
ch is great on a Rainishy day. Sigma Nu has 
been Butchering their back hills with Maz 
and after that their push team is slightly 
worse than inadequate. The Zoo is follow
ing American Motors lead by coming out 
with an innovation called the pacer. 2. 
Phi Kappa Theta- Can Phi Kap win this 
year running in the Shadow of the Streak? 
This is their crucial question. Phi Kap 
needs someone to shake a Legg on hill one, 
and shake some stop signs on hill two. This 
years push t^am is weaker than the team 
that got tb ,m over the hill third in last 
years championship heat. Kodak is sending 
a representative to take some pictures of 
PhiKaps race effort but thats about all 
hell do. Phi Kap is making up for his 
presence by adding some weight to their 
buggy. Regardless of their race showing Phi 
Kap will not lie still until they take 1-2 in 
design (Kotex stock is up again this year). 
3. Beta Theta Pi- Beta is going all out to 
win this year. Theyve been Bickaring with 
ATO and have decided to import some raw 
football talent . Reports from down South 
indicate that Grunts heard at push prac
tice come from a Horse being Lanced. The 
Betas will film this years race in Panavision 
because These guys are psyched. The
U.S. government is working closely with 
BTP to see if they can work out their SST 
problems together. It looks like modi
fications of the tail section are necessary to 
make it fly. Dont blame their driver if 
they dont win this year. Its rough driving 
three heats in one day, expecially with all 
those people passing him on the back hills.
4. Alpha Tau Omega- The Golden Goose 
laid an egg call the Gander but neither of 
these birds are a match for a Buzzard. Be
fore you get all Pyzed off about that pun 
somebody better give them a brake. Lets 
consider ATOs magic numbers.... three 
and nine. This is because its been nine 
years since ATO cracked the top three. 
Dont look for the egg to be cracked this 
year, even though the AMS department 
doesnt mind when their students miss a 
week of classes. Aircos number one fan, 
Dennis Owca, predicts a resounding victory 
in the consolation heat if he can keep the 
squirrel in the cage. Rebel, Rebel anyone ?
5. P i Kappa Alpha- The best rolls PIKA 
got last year were the ones that Edie bak
ed in the oven. Speaking of Edie, she could 
probably push better than those lazy, self-righteous slobs that PIKA passes off as a 
push team. Their drivers have gotten so fat 
from eating Edies rich desserts that PIKAs 
have found themselves hoping Emmet 
Reed can get down to 165 by race day. 
The Pi-thon has a new skin but it doesnt 
much matter what color you paint scrap 
metal. The only way PIKA can win this 
year is if they get some heavenly help.
Maybe Edie should make some angels 
food cake. Anyway, what can you expect 
from a house whose buggy chairman gets his 
thrill from chaining up sawhorses? 6. 
Fringe- The Architects have given up ham
burgers in favor of Nate Bergers. A Moore 
concentrated effort by Fringe this year 
might finally land them a spot in the top
OAKLAND HARDWARE & TOY CO.
CMUs Convenient Headquarters for Hardware
 Desk Lamps  Key Service  Artist Brushes
 Hot Plates  Poster Paints  School Supplies
3606 FORBES AVENUE OAKLAND 
Phone : 621-0923
DINING CLUB
Now is the time to join or inquire about Fall 1975 
For Students on all University Campuses
Meal Tickets for those with irregular schedules
SABBATH DINNERS
3151BELUFIEU) AVENUE (ACROSS FROM HEINZ CHAPEL) 
1214*75
six, as it appears that theyve finally got 
push team to match their fine buggy. 
Though theyre a dark horse, Fringe might 
be the first independent organization to 
take home a race trophy since 1960. Hasanybodyseenmyteeth? (?)
If Turner was a Turkey and Wood is a 
Wingnut, what are Kanner and Davis?
THE COMPUBOOKIE PREDICTS:
1. Pi Kappa Alpha
2. Beta Theta Pi
3. Alpha Tau Omega
4. Sigma Nu
5. Phi Kappa Theta
6. Fringe
11-4
7-2
6-1
10-1
20-1
35-1
Predictions 
Of Those Who 
Might Not Know
Dave Kanner 
Sweepstakes Chairman
1. BTP
2. ATO
3. PKT
4. S
5. PKA
6. FRINGE
Greg Homoki 
Design Chairman
1. PKT
2. PKA
3. BTP
4. SN
5. ATO
6. PKT
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
B
Roger Geddes 
Publicity Chairman
1. PKA
2. BTP
3. ATO
4. PKT
5. SN
6. ATO
A
A
A
A
A
B
Bob Davis 
Safety Chairman
1. PKA
2. BTP
3. ATO
4. SN
5. PKT
6. FRINGE
Mick Fro
Buggy Book Editor
1. PKA
2. BTP
3. PKT
4. ATO
5. FRINGE
6. PKA
Buggy Chairmen
1. PKA
2. BTP
3. PKT
4. ATO
5. SN
6. FRINGE
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
B
A
A
A
A
A
A

---------------------------------------------------

THE TART AN-April 15, 1975-Page 27
Sweepstakes Heats
HEAT
0
1
2
3
4
5
6 
7
123
SDC "B"DTD "B"
SAE A"DUSN''B''
PKA T ATO "B"Fringe "A
TXZBTBETA "B'
SAE "B"ATO "A"PKT "B"
BTP "C"SN "A"KS
DTD "A"Fringe Day CarePKA "A"
BTP ACIA
PKA "B"SDC "APKT "A"
Golfers Get Into Swing
by Griff Paulsen
The CMU golfers returned to full stre
ngth as hockey players Jack Arturo, Mike 
Gallaway, and Tom Grimm hung up their 
skates and took to the links. The team 
opened their season last Tuesday against 
Bethany at home, the tight Longue Vue 
Club.
Gusting winds, inconsistent shots and 
three putts were the order of the day as 
CMU won by 15 strokes, with the five best 
scores counting. Medalists for both teams 
was Minor who shot a 74 with fifteen parts 
and three bogies. Second for CMU was 
Mike Gallaway with a 8.1. After a two day 
lay-off, they team travelled up to Green
ville to play Thiel and Hiram in a league 
match. Arriving just in time for the match,
the golf got their sight of the Greenville 
Country Club* short and tight and lacking 
cows and a barn.
The weather.was m the same shape 
as the course, the temperature about
35 degrees, continuous winds and 
snow, remaining on parts of the corse. 
Thiel finished first with a total of 404, 
CMU second with 413, and Hiram, a dis
tant third. Jack Arturo had an impressive
78, including a 38 on the front nine, made 
tough by the conditions. Tom Grimm fini
shed closely behind with an 80.
The Tartans have a match this Tuesday 
at home and a pre-Carnival trip this Thurs
day to Grove City. Hopefully, the team will 
play up to its potential and destroy both 
opponents.
BATES SUMMER 
THEATER\ Graduate Program
I Work with a company of 
( professional actors directed 
by David Sumner, founderjmember of the Royal 
Shakespeare Company, 
| England.
I Open to persons holding 
bachelor degrees and to 
/highly qualified u n - 
\ dergraduates.
| Inquiries to Professor 
| James Hepburn, Bates Summer Theater, Bates Colllge, 
'i Lewistown, Maine, 04240.
summerineurope
65 DAY ADVANCE 
PAYMENT REQUIRED 
U.S. GOVT. APPROVED 
TWA PAN AM TRANSAVIA
707 707 707
 CALL TOLL FREE 1
CHARTERS 
LESS THAN1/2
ECONOMY FARE
uni-travel charters 
800-325-4867
APARTMENT
TO SUBLET
May 16th or June 1st 
to Aug. 31st
Large beautifully furnished, one bedroom apt., 
Oakland/Shadyside vicinity (Morewood Ave.) 
Grad. Student or prof. person! s) desired.
RENT NEGOTIABLE
Phone: 687-2467 or 4414839 (ms.)
/. M. Softball 
Underwa y
by Mike Pochan
Intramural softball enters the third 
week of play, and the big games will be 
saved for last.
In the Birdy division of the major lea
gue, ATO AA is undefeated after an
nihilating Big Tight Ends, Golden Seals, 
and M.O.T.T. ATO has power-hitting from 
Dickie West, Jay Duquette, and Dick 
Schademan and superb fielding from Ernie 
Goffi, Matt Fleig, and Bob Curtis. Phil Lugatta, Frank Massero, Calvin Scott, Billy O, 
Shannon Johnson, and Pyzdrowski fill out 
the squad with size and strength.
The Oakland As are unbeaten after 
three game scoring. Total of 72 runs while 
allowing only 8. Mike Jochmann holds the 
scoring punch slamming four home runs in 
three games, while offering top fielding in 
left. Willy Frantz sits in center, Bill Gordon 
in right with Rick Jacobson as rover. Dane 
Wukich (55) and Andy Gogol (38) are out
standing in the infield along with Mark 
Donato on first.
These two teams will not meet until the 
last week of the season and probably again 
in the finals.
Contending for the other two playoff
spots in the Birdy division are SAE-Iron 
with fine pitching from Tom Veltri and 
PKT-A.
In the Earl Division, defending cham
pions Gommies Commies are slipping with 
an 0-4 record. Only three veterans returned 
from last years team.
Beta A is unbeaten showing strong 
all-around hitting and fielding. Theta XIs 
Mother Truckers are 2-0 and Ni Phi Ni is a 
possibility. Two more weeks at play will 
narrow things down, with playoffs be
ginning April 28.
Other IM news: Scrow won 81-77 over 
Uppercuts to take bridge title. Rick Jacob
son, Willy Frantz, Chuck Carroll, and Tim 
Larkins played for Scrow.
Lacrosse
Looking for something to do while 
you recover from Spring Carnival': 
Come see Lacrosse at its finest. CMU 
versus Bethany on April 20 at 4:00 
p.m., Tech field. Come out and cheer on 
your favorite stars, or bring your own 
cheer.
PHOTOGRAPHERS 
OF CMU 
UNITE!
Whip out your telephoto lenses and enter 
the TARTAN PHOTOGRAPHY CONTEST
1 ) Still life
Categories:
3) Technical
2) People
Entries, 3 per student, may be in B & W or color. Winners will 
be exhibited at the Arts & Crafts Area of Spring Carnival. Sub
mit your photos between April 9 - 15 at the Skibo Info Desk. 
All photos must be mounted, unframed, and not exceed 11 x 
14". Give your creativity a good work-out. Then come see us!
TODAY IS YO0R LAST DAY 
"LET'S GO C. M. U."

---------------------------------------------------

Page 28-THE TARTANApril 15, 1975
CAR N EG I E-MEL LON UNIVERSITY ACTIVITIES BOARD
PRESENTS
AND SPECIAL GUESTS
THE RHYTHM KINGS

&
r TWO SHOWS 
7:30 P.M. & 11:00 P.M
FRIDAY, APRIL 18
AT THE
C.M.U. GYM
PRICE OF ADMISSION:
$4.00 WITH CMU I.D. - $5.00 ADVANCE 
ALL TICKETS $6.00 DAY OF SHOW 
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT 
SKIBO INFORMATION DESK, PITT STUDENT UNION 
AND ALL NATIONAL RECORD MARTS
