Weber and Schatz Named Provosts
by Chris Infante
President Richard Cyert announced at a 
press conference today the creation of two 
new administrative posts at CM-U. The 
present Vice President of Academic 
Affairs, Edward Schatz, will be doubling as
Provost for the College of Fine Arts, Car
negie Institute of Technology, and Mellon 
Institute of Science. Arnold R. Weber, a 
nationally known economist who has held 
various positions in the Nixon Administra
tion, has been appointed to the dual task 
of Dean of GSIA and Provost for GSIA,
SUPA and H&SS.The key concept stressed by Cyert is
that the division of the various colleges 
under a provost will provide a closer work
ing relationship among the colleges. He also 
added that none of this is very new, merely 
an elaboration of what CM-U has had in 
the past. Previously, the Vice President of 
Academic Affairs has been working in this 
same capacity. President Cyert stated that 
he is simply shifting the work load to two 
people because Dr. Schatz has been over
burdened and unable to devote as much 
attention to the individual colleges as is 
desirable.
Cyerts defense of the provost proposal 
rests largely in a desire to see CM-U keep 
up with the times: the university must 
become a more effective device in analysis 
of public policy questions. Dr. Schatz 
emphatically agrees, it is a vital thing to 
update the university in this way. And it is 
this move towards the development of a 
public policy oriented university that can 
best explain the grouping of GSIA, SUPA 
and H&SS under one provost. First of all 
GSIA and SUPA already share some 
common objectives in the fields of eco
nomics, political science, sociology and 
management. Each, according to Schatz, 
aims at producing people for a slightly 
different clientele, one for the public sec
tor, the other for the private.
The purpose of this particular grouping
is to see a closer relationship develop
between the three schools, especially in the
area of the social sciences.
continued on page 11
WQED-FM; New Addition 
To Pittsburgh Air
The Metropolitan Pittsburgh Public 
Broadcasting Stations, WQED 13 and 
WQEX 16, have announced that their new 
Public Radio Station, WQED-FM will begin 
its broadcast operation on Thursday at 
1:15 p.m.
The Station will broadcast its programs 
in stereo at a frequency of 89.3 mega 
Hertz, the first station on the radio dial. 
The station will broadcast 18 hours daily, 
from 6 a.m. to midnight.
The Station will be offering the com
munity a Fine Arts broadcast service by 
featuring classical and serious music inclu
ding operas and jazz and by displaying the 
artistry of the people living and working in 
the nine county area of Western Pennsylva
nia.
Drama, critical xeviews of history, cur
rent events, public affairs, book reviews, 
poetry arul literary readings, and news and 
features about Performing Arts in 
Pittsburgh and the surrounding area will 
also be heard on the new facility.
ATTENTION all past and future members of the TARTAN'S news and features staff: There will be a weekly TARTAN meeting every Monday at 7 p.m. Please attend or call the editor.
January 23, 1973 Volume 73 Number 15
Police Raid Frat
by Debbie Siegel
On Wednesday night, January 17th at 
r 11:30 p.m, the Pittsburgh police arrested 
seven members of the Beta Sigma Rho 
Fraternity for the possesion of marijuana. 
From their arrest, it was suggested that 
there was cultivation of marijuana in the 
house and at least one member may be 
accused of selling illegal drugs. In reaction, 
President Cyert is placing the fraternity on 
social probation for the remainder of the 
semester or untill a special committee 
decides that the members are responsible 
enough to manage their affairs. If the fra
ternity does not prove itself, it may be 
permanently barred from association with 
the campus community. The special com
mittee will consist of the Chairman of the 
Faculty Council on Student Affairs, the 
Dean of Student Affairs, the Dean of Men,
*and the President of the Council of Frater
nity Presidents.
President Cyert met with members of 
Beta Sigma Rho and alumni to discuss 
what he termed as an element of punish
ment which may be positive enough to 
stimulate the campus community on 
Friday afternoon. Social probation has 
been defined as the exclusion of the frater
nity from any activity representing a part 
of the university. The house may continue 
to operate, but it will not be allowed to 
participate in activities such as the Greek 
Sing.
The meeting consisted of a wide variety 
of exchanged ideas between the different 
view points represented. A few membes of 
Beta Sigma Rho questioned Cyert as to 
How can you blame a whole group when 
only seven people out of the whole house 
were found to be involved? In response, 
President Cyert answered, All of you have
_______continued on page 11 i
One Million Dollars 
Received From Mellon
Carnegie-Mellon University has an
nounced receipt of a $l million dual-purpose grant from the Richard King 
Mellon Foundation to improve the Univer
sitys overall management functions, and 
strenghten select programs which have 
played a key role in CMlFs growth.
Half of the money is to be used at the 
I discretion of CMU President Richard M. 
Cyert. Of the rest, $200,000 is for further 
development of the psychology depart
ment; 5200,000 for purchase of equipment 
for Carnegie Institute of Technology, the 
Universitys engineering division; and
SI00,000 to aid in development of the 
Environmental Studies Institute into a na
tional center for the study of environ? mental problems.
The unusual $500,000 discretionary
fund, Cyert said, will be used to inaugurate 
a program of maintenance and renovation 
for the Universitys facilities and to estab
lish a management information shsystem 
designed to increase operating efficiency.
Approval of the generous grant is ex
tremely important to CMU at this time 
because it provides funds to meet our im
mediate, pressing problems, and supports 
our objectives of improving academic ex
cellence, the CMU President said.
With this grant, the Richard King 
Mellon Foundation has continued its de
monstrated policy of enlightened giving 
which addresses both current needs and 
future opportunities, Dr. Cyert added. 1 
am gratified by this action of the found
ation and determined to see that our pro
gress justifies the confidence shown.
Arnold R. Weber, a nationally known economist 
has been chosen as new Dean of GSIA and will 
act as provost for GSIA, SUPA, & H&SS.
Don Luce Speaks
by Greg Fulton
Last Tuesday, January 16, a service for 
the victims of the Vietnamese war took 
place at the University and City Ministries, 
Fifth and Bellefield Avenues.
The service was attended by about 160 
people still interested in events taking place 
in Vietnam. Addressing the group were 
Don Luce and Peter Woodrow, who 
concentrated their attention on the pro
blem of the extreme political suppression 
imposed on the citizens of South Vietnam 
by the Thieu regime; revealing that there 
are now about 200,000 political prisoners 
in South Vietnam subjected to inhuman 
conditions and treatment by guards and 
interrogators. It was said that there is 
reason to believe that these people would 
be killed in the event of a cease fire.
Don Luce lived in Vietnam from 1958 
to 1970 serving the International 
Voluntary Services as an agricultural expert 
until his visa was suspended in retaliation 
for his exposure of Tiger Cages in Viet
nam. He has written a number of articles 
since 1967 conveying the plight of the 
people of Vietnam to his American 
audience. His exposure of the Tiger 
Cages led to a few months of better 
prisoner treatment in South Vietnam, but 
recently the U.S. government allegedly 
awarded a $400,000 contract to a large 
U.S. construction firm to build more
Tiger Cages even smaller than the 
continued on page 11
Don Luce spoke about political suppression 
imposed on the citizes of South Vietnam.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2THE TARTAN-Tuesday, January 23, 1973
editors note
In reference to the bust at Beta Sigma Rho, President Cyert has made a statement to the effect that since possession of drugs is illegal, the consequences of the law should be expected and that he wouldnt argue the issue of whether smoking marijuana is good or bad, but would maintain that the law should be obeyed in all cases, not just those cases where one chooses to obey it. He also emphasized that the practice of selective obedience of the law has very grave implications and that the student should not fall into the trap of letting his peers influence him to condone illegal activity.I have great respect for President Cyert. I think he may be one of the best and most fair minded university presidents in the country. I also think that his statement makes great sense in principle. One cannot arbitrarily break a law one disagrees with unless one is prepared to accept the consequences and law-breaking shouldnt be condoned. I agree that the best action to take in such a case is to try to change the law. But in relation to this issue in the real world, I think President Cyerts statement is surprisingly naive and impractical.The simple fact is that smoking marijuana is such an established social activity for such a large segment of the campus that I feel absurd and redundant even saying it. I doubt is there has been a person who has graduated from CMU in the last four years who hasn't either sold, smoked or at least seen pot.The point is that, in practice, the questions of good or bad, of right and wrong, of legality and illegality are all irrelevant, or perhaps less relevant than the realities of the situation. Pot exists. It has existed and it will exist. To expect students to overcome such widespread peer influence is unrealistic.I suppose President Cyert couldnt release a statement in complete defense of the brothers of Beta Sig. The alumni and trustees and probably an appreciable number of students would be upset. However, instead of further punishing them by taking away their social privileges, perhaps the University could try to help them as much as possible. The University could set an example for the rest of society by recognizing that pot has become an established part of American culture. It isnt going to go away, especially not through peer influence.Condoning these particular illegal activities may be a case of selective obedience and selective obedience of the law may have dangerous implications in principle, but under the circumstances no other idea makes sense. If the University really obeyed the law, most of the campus should be arrested.
Stephen Saunders
As denoted in an article on the first page, WQED 13 and WQEX16, Metropolitan Pittsburgh Public Broadcasting Stations, has announced a third sister station WQED-FM 89.3 mega Hertz, stereo, which shall be concentrating on what they have called seriousmusic.The TAR TAN takes great pleasure in announcing and supporting this new addition to Fine Arts in Pittsburgh. We wish the new station success  and hail the Public Broadcasting System for the high quality material that it has added to the otherwise pollution-filled airs of not only cities like Pittsburgh, but also New York, Boston, and Philadelphia.
WQED 13 & WQEX 16
Metropolitan Pittsburgh 
Public Broadcasting
4802 Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213
(4121 683-1300
&
Letters:
Editor:
Contrary to WRCT news and to what is 
by now popular belief, Delta Upsilon is not 
dead. At the end of the semester, we will 
be ending our affiliation as a local chapter.
But that is part of the future. This is 
now. Having come to accept an eventuality 
that has been hanging over the Chapter for 
several years, we are preparing to deal with 
it rather than to let future classes inherit 
the burdens. Since this decision was made, 
there has been more discussion, inter
action, and spirit within the walls of Delta 
Upsilon than has been seen in quite some 
time.
Although many factors have made this 
Chapters continued existence in its present 
form unfruitful and impractical, there are a 
number of alternatives at hand. This fra
ternity is not dying, it is metamorphosing. 
Where we go from here, whether it be as a 
cooperative or as a scattered group of 
friends, is yet to be determined.
But nothing can negate the' fact that 
over 600 people have put part of them
selves into this place and have benefitted 
from it, nor the fact that friendship and 
brotherhood if you will, are not made 
by Greek letters alone.
The Brothers of Delta Upsilon
Effective immediately, the deadline for announcements is noon, and 
news items 5 PM , of the Wednesday before publication. The deadline for 
advertising is 11 AM of the Thursday before. No copy is
acceptable unless it is neatly typed or hand printed. Copy must be double 
spaced, correctly spelled , and properly paragraphed and punctuated.
YOUR HONOR; | REGRET 7WAT I HAVE BUT SIX COUNTS INCLUDING CONSPIRACY^ 
BURGLARV, AND WIRETAPPING TO GIVE FOR MV C0UNTRV."
Editor in Chief .... Stephen Saunders
Business Manager................Alice Bright
Special Editors..........................Mina Gerall
Jeff Ganek
Special Consultant . . .Stephen Jurman
News Editor..............................Gary Singer
Features Editor . . . . Shelley Burhans 
News and Features Staff . Gary Bronheim 
Craig Collins, Steven Correll 
Sharon Curcio, Brandon Dula 
Laurel Felix, Marc Field 
Anne Friedman, Greg Fulton 
Mike Hill, Chris Infante 
Thomas Lang, Joan McCluskey 
Robin Reiter, Debbie Siegel 
Ellen Steiber
Political Editor............................Jim Slivka
Photography Editors .... Ed Levine
Elliot Arons
Photography Staff .... Henry Collins 
Ellen Eddy, Bruce Edelston 
Andrea Friedman, Carl Grefenstette 
Dan Goldstein, Greg Nickel 
John Shettel, Frank Stein 
Ric Werme
Entertainment Editor . . Stephen Hamm 
Entertainment Staff . . Terry Caywood
Nonie Dempsey, Arnie Karr 
Paula Shubock, Hank Levy 
Steve Perkins, Susan Klein 
Winton Snyder, Jay Corpus 
Doug Stone
Sports Editor .....................Jeff Englund
Sports Staff...................................Dan Buis
Roger Geddes, David Girdany
D.R. Sullivan
Political Cartoonist . . . . Jim Margulies
Layout.....................................Erica Gees
Karla Salvi
Copy Staff .............................Mina Gerall
Cyndy Schmidt
Published every Tuesday during the 
academic year at Carnegie-Mellon 
University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 
15213. Editorial and Business offices in 
Skibo 50, Carnegie-Mellon University. 
Telephone (412) 682-4557

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, January 23, 1973Page 3
HI
*eux>
jA
WHY IS TH fLMb
m mr(Mfrcu r
(MfcuaoAMio?At
Plan Proposes Rewards 
For Quality Teaching
Dr. Lester Lave is a Professor of 
economics at Carnegie-Mellon University. 
He is Chairman of the Economics Depart
ment in the College of Humanities and 
Social Sciences.
by Lester Lave
The Universitys financial pulse has 
occupied more Presidential and administra
tive concern than student unrest or 
honorary degrees over the past several 
years. Budget deficits of up to several 
million dollars have resulted in wage 
freezes in many parts of CMU, to a re
duction in the number of faculty and staff, 
and to the curtailing or reduction of many 
services. No one likes to be in a university 
experiencing financial problems. Students 
find that prices rise (if not tuition, then the 
price of rooms or meals) and services are 
cut. Faculty find their pay checks frozen, 
face the likelihood of being fired, and find 
that new ideas for courses or research 
cannot be funded. The staff have been hit 
hardest in terms of losing their jobs, having 
their work loads increased, or having no 
raises.
President Cyert has set about the monu
mental task of improving the Universitys 
financial position. He plans to balance the 
budget for the 1973-4 academic year and 
to set about lifting CMU to excellence. The 
way in which deficits are eliminated and in 
which universities are managed are not 
mysterious, or at least should not be 
mysterious. I will go on to discuss some of 
the principles. First some of the Financial 
facts about CMU will be discussed.
CMUS BUDGET PROBLEMS
For the academic year 1971-2, CMU 
had a total operating income of 
$37,508,000. Of this $10,342,000 came 
from tuition and fees, $12,633,000 from 
sponsored research, and $6,111,000 from 
endowment income (to name the major 
categories). Note that tuition represents 
less than 1/3 of the income of the 
University and less than the income from 
research grants and contracts. During this 
year, the University spent $40,591,000, 
thus incurring a deficit of $3,083,000. The 
costs included $12,401,000 for instruction 
and departmental research, $820,000 for 
the computation center, $2,156,000 for 
student aid, and $10,457,000 for 
sponsored research.
These gross facts are not very interesting 
in themselves except to indicate where it 
might be possible to save $3,083,000. 
Clearly it could not be saved by doing 
away with the computation center or 
student aid, although parts could be saved 
in these areas.
One strategy for budget balancing is to 
reduce the scope of the Universitys 
activities. Reducing the scope of activities
a book of
In an effort to improve the advisory system, 
the Student Policy Committe is compiling 
the most frequently encountered questions and problems 
with their corresponding answers and solutions
Please send any problems and questions 
you have had or know of 
to the TARTAN office, Room 50 Skibo 
by campus mail.
would presumably reduce the deficit 
(although the immediate result might well 
be to increase the deficit). Most universities 
faced with a deficit have reacted by 
freezing salaries and cutting all budgets by 
10% (for example).
Another strategy is to improve what the 
university is doing, and thereby increase its 
revenues (by getting more students, more 
gifts, and more grants and contracts). 
Thats easier said than done.
Financial distress tends to bring out the 
worst behavior in administrators. There are 
few measures of how well a university 
president is doing his job. Generally, 
people think about new buildings, new pro
grams or gifts. There is good evidence of 
when he is not doing his job well, such as 
budget deficits or student protests. This 
puts unbearable pressure on the president 
to avoid a deficit or cure it rapidly. The 
crucial need is to balance the budget and
the administrators reaction is to do so as 
rapidly as possible by uniform cut backs or 
finding the areas that are easiest to cut. 
The result of thoughtless budget cutting 
can only be to weaken the institution, and 
perhaps to damage it far beyond the mag
nitude of a relatively small financial crisis. 
Instead, a deficit budget requires the 
university to reexamine its goals and to 
plan how to achieve these within the limits 
of its resources. Such a planning process is 
now going on at CMU and it should do 
much to rationalize where we are going and 
where we should be going. CMU cannot 
afford to do everything, nor can it afford 
to be excellent in everything it does.
A PROPOSAL FOR MANAGING CMU 
My proposal is to have a departments 
budget consist of~a .tuition allocation 
(computed as $250 for each student encontinued on page 5
Editors note: Any kind of opinion poll requires large numbers of responses in 
order for it to be effective. Large numbers of answers to the Freshman 
Opinion Poll have been received, but more are required to insure accuracy. 
Please fill out the following poll and return it to the TARTAN as soon as 
possible if you have not done so already. Thank you.
FRESHMAN OPINION POLL
jEDITORS NOTE In preparation for a investigative research project which the 
#!TARTAN is currently conducting, we would appreciate it if all freshmen for any 
pother students, for that matter) would take a few moments and fill out the 
following form.Do not include your name. The results of this and other investi
gative projects will be published in future editions of the TARTAN.
PLEASE MAIL THIS COMPLETED FORM TO THE TARTAN, ROOM 50 SKIBO 
OR DROP IT OFF IN PERSON.
\THE RESPONSES TO THE FOLLOWING QUESTIONS ARE BASED ON A 
SCALE OF 1 to 5. FIVE BEING THE MOST POSITIVE RESPONSE AND I 
BEING THE MOST NEGATIVE RESPONSE. Please circle the appropriate number.
1.
 My courses are generally (very poor 1 2 3 4 5 excellent).
2.
My instructors are generally (very poor 1 2 3 4 5 excellent).
3.
The social (non-academic) atmosphere at CMU is (poor 1 2 3 4 5 very good)
4.
^Thepossiblity of my dropping out or transferring at the end of this semester is 
'(none at all 1 2 3 4 5 definite).
5.
My impression of CMU as received from Admissions Office information is corelable 
to my experience here (not at all 1 2 3 4 5 completely).
6.
When I applied to CMU I was (not at all 1 2 3 4 5 very well) informed about the 
different colleges to which I applied.
7.
i In terms of achieving my educational goals CMU will (be of no assistance 1 2 3 4 5 
be perfect).
tIn terms of the academic pressure, I feel that CMU is (easy 1 2 3 4 5 overburden-Jingl.
:9- My major is-------------------------------------
 10.
Since September, I am (less sure 1 2 3 4 5 more sure) of my career choice.
I have (maintained/changed) my original educational objectives.
12.
I feel that 1 have enough academic freedom to investigate my interests and abilities
 (none 1 2 3 4 5 very sufficient).

Class----------------------------------School---------------------------------------------------

Page 4THE TARTANTuesday, January 23, 1973Economist Sees Parallels 
To Revolts of 1848
Noted economist and authoress Barbara Ward expressed optimism that technology could save 
the world, but only if people provided justice. Photo by Greg Nickel
by Emma Lazarus
Barbara Ward, world renowned eco
nomic interpreter and authoress (Rich Na
tions, Poor Nations) spoke last Wednes
day night as part of the Carnegie Institutes 
Man and Ideas series. Ms. Ward, who has 
been, among other things, an editor of 
The Economist, a governor of the BBC, 
a Vatican advisor and a delegate to the 
First UN conference on the Human Envi
ronment, spoke on Basic Conditions for 
Tomorrows World.
The form of the talk was a comparison 
between the devastating time of trouble 
(Toynbee) of the I840s and the yet more 
dangerous and overwhelming conditions of 
the I970s. Ms. Ward considered the three 
major problems of both eras to be similar: 
the increasing pressures of population 
growth, increasing pollution, and the un
necessary depletion of natural resources.
Claiming to be an optimist, Ms. Ward 
reminded the audience that by 1848 the 
problems of that era were on the way to 
being solved. Expanding wealth and pros
perity in England, coupled with a period of 
mass migration out of Britain and growing 
Industrialization helped to limit and sta
bilize family size. The fatal pollution in 
which Londoners wallowed was brought 
under control in the 1870s by the con
duction of sewers. However, things are 
tougher now, said Ms. Ward. The rate of 
population growth has soared with the ad
vent of malaria and other disease control 
(once being the major check on the growth 
of the worlds population). Sophisticated
technology has produced new and more 
subtle forms of earth pollution. There are 
no more unconquered wilds or reserves of 
arable land to be exploited for their re
sources; the earth is fully inhabited. Most 
important, according to Ms. Ward, the gap 
between the rich and the poor continues to 
widen and population growth among those 
least able to afford it continues to rise.
Is there hope? Ward believes we can 
some of our seemingly insurmountable 
crises of the 70s. First, we know how to 
limit and constrainthe growth of popula
tions. (We know what the people of the 
1840s didnt; population doesnt continue 
exponentially if change occurs.) Industrial
ization and modernization in the Third 
World should help to contain population 
growth. Second, if air and water were no 
longer free commodities people would be 
come more resourceful and conscientious 
concerning their use of those costly 
commodities. Ms. Ward says one must pay 
for pollution before one has adjusted to 
the idea of controlling it. As her third 
solution Ms. Ward advocates the recycling 
of resources to maintain a level of stability. 
Technology can produce substitute mater
ials and can discover how to reuse those 
irreplaceable commodities and resources.
Ms. Ward feels technology is the basis 
for her optimism. Wise technological 
growth can eliminate our three major prob
lems. However, Ward expressed a deep 
pessimistic fear insoluble by the most ad
vanced technology: When you suppress 
justice, you suppress survival. Accord
ingly, We must recover the basic element
of social relationships-justice. Injustice is 
the horror of our society ... we could be 
inhibited fatally by our lack of heart and 
soul. As has been seen recently in hi
jackings, violence and unrest, Despair of 
the weak is expressed in mindless vio
lence. Ward feels injustice has become the 
norm and our basic hope for change lies in 
the fact that after periods of great afflu
ence and despair comes an attitude of 
enough of this shit and a desire for 
change.
Ms. Wards great committment and con
cern for all peoples coupled with her vast
expertise in economics, history and ecolo
gy seemed to give way to a highly moral 
yet overly simplistic approach to problem 
solvingg. She is an idealist) capable of 
raising hope and confidence in her listeners 
and yet her solutions appear contradictory 
to her basic premise: Men and women 
dont change like historical occurences. 
Despite her frequently, and self-admittedly, debatable conclusions, Ms. Wards 
humorous and stately presentation was an 
always engaging and worthy addition to 
the lecture series.
The Activities Board and Men's Dorm Council
VIDEOTAPE SERIES
Week Of: 
Jan 23The Prisoner-'The Arrival7 
Jan. 30 Howdy Doody 
Feb. 6The Prisoner-'Many Happy Returns' 
Feb. 13'The Gold Rush' 
Feb. 28The Prisoner-'The Schizoid Man' 
March 6Conversation With Angela Davis 
March 13-Reefer Madness 
March 17The Prisoner-'The Chimes of 
Big Ben' 
April 3'The General' 
April 10-16The Prisoner-'Once Upon A 
Time' 'Wassamotta U' Featuring 
Bullwinkle 
April 17'Abbot and Costello Meet 
Frankenstein' 
April 24The Prisoner-'Fall Out' 
Tues.f Nights-Donner Hall 
Wed., Sun., Nights Skibo
 Except When Announced
All Showings Start at 7:00 and Run 
Continuously Throughout the Evening.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, January 23. 1973Page 5
Dr. Lois FowlerPhoto by Ellen Eddy
English Teacher Ed
by Vicky Stein
The English Department, in an effort to 
update and enlarge its programs, has begun 
to effect several changes in its teacher 
education program. Although many of the 
plans are tentative, definite steps have 
already been taken.
The changes deal with both the actual 
training of student teachers and with ex
panding their fields of knowledge. These 
are the product of increasing demands for 
broader backgrounds and more practical 
experience. The feeling is that the enlarged 
programs will better enable the students to 
cope effectively with the pressures of the 
expanding field of communications, in
cluding multimedia, and the difficult 
atmosphere of the urban high school.
Until the present time, students 
planning to become English teachers 
waited until their senior year to student 
teach, having previously completed a 
methods course. This, however, was found 
to be inadequate. The methods course 
was idealized, a waste of time, com
plained one student. The whole bit is 
knowing the students and how to respond 
to them. The practicum was reality. 
Students, in expressing their dissatis
faction, claimed that many of the theories 
they had dealt with in the methods course 
were but very slightly correlable to what 
they experienced in the classrooms. Over 
the years, student teachers have suggested 
to their advisors that in order to make the 
program more realistic, students should 
be able to get some practical training 
before taking the methods course. This
Modified
year, that suggestion has been taken 
seriously.
Conjecturally, the idea is to establish 
several teacher training centers in area high 
schools. The program at the schools which 
would include some methods training, but 
primarily involve student teaching, would 
be headed by a Doctor of Arts graduate 
from CMU. Students would teach one day 
a week during the second semester of their 
sophomore and junior years, and then take 
their methods course, after which they 
would do their full time student teaching. 
The students would define what they 
need, said Lois Fowler, head of the 
English teaching option, citing the pre
paratory nature of the program. We are an 
urban university. With all of our facilities, 
we have the opportunity to train a few 
excellent teachers for urban schools. As 
our reputation grows in this area, our 
students, if they can perform, will get jobs 
in a limited job market. And if a teacher 
can perform well in an urban school for a 
time, and then do a year of graduate work, 
he can probably then find work in other 
related areas. The program ideally would 
eventually involve all departments that pro
duce teachers, including maths and 
sciences, fine arts and the humanities.
Some ideas in the program have already 
been implemented. At present there are 
four students, three sophomores and one 
junior, working at Oliver High School one 
day a week, under the direction of Dr. 
Judy Johnston, who will observe many 
different classes, including classes that deal 
with disciplines other than English. Later,
they will be assigned to work with one
teacher. They will be expected in that time 
to grade papers, teach several classes and to 
administer tests.
The idea came up over coffee, said 
Dr. Johnston. According to her, it is the 
combined product of Dr. Fowler, Dr. Joan 
Burstyn, director of education at CMU, 
and herself. Actually, said Dr. Burstyn, 
the idea of teacher training centers has 
been around since the 1930s. Several 
colleges have similar programs. The math 
department here has a teacher training 
resource center at Mt. Lebanon High 
School.
According to Dr. Johnston, the idea of 
the program is to teach the participants a 
number of competencies, ranging from 
grading to the highly theoretical problems 
of relating to students. Dr. Johnston 
arranges the student teachers schedules 
and meets with them for purposes of 
feedback and to discuss problems that 
arise during the day. We are very lucky to 
have someone like Judy Johnston, said 
Dr. Fowler. Dr. Johnston has undertaken 
the job without pay, and her cancjor and 
perception have thus far proved invaluable 
to those participating in the program, said 
one of the students.
The future of the program now rests on 
obtaining funds and finding suitable D. A. 
candidates to run the centers. Initial re
ports indicate enthusiasm for the project in 
other departments, and it has already 
received approval from Mary Molyneaux of 
the Pittsburgh Board of Education, who 
thinks it is an excellent idea.
jAiversity ReformPlaA Proposedcontinued from page 3
rolled in its courses) plus any revenue from 
grants and contracts (students pay tuition 
of $2500 per year and take about 10 
courses). Would anyone really argue that 
such a plan would not cause increased con
cern with teaching and increased attention 
to the courses offered? Wouldnt such a 
plan result in increased enrollment at 
CMU? The department would have almost 
complete freedom in allocating this budget, 
subject to setting out its goals, methods of 
achieving them, and having these approved 
by the relevant dean and President Cyert.
This would not leave Cyert with nothing 
to do. First, he would be responsible for 
approving department (and college) plans 
and ensuring that departments were 
successfully achieving their goals. Second, 
he would have direct control of about 
$9,000,000 in endowment income and 
gifts. This money would be used to sub
sidize activities in the University which 
were deemed worthy of subsidy, to under
write a new program or course that needed 
subsidy to get started and generally to 
press some area on to excellence where 
additional funds were required to do this. 
Each faculty member would be able to 
request part of these funds from the 
administration and would have to make his 
case in competition with the rest of the 
University. For those, like me, who believe 
in competition, such an arrangement could 
only serve to improve the University and 
bring it closer to excellence.
Let me summarize the virtues of my 
proposal. It would benefit the student by 
making his presence in a course of great 
interest to his instructor. The quality of 
teaching would almost certainly rise. Whent 
there was substantial student demand for a 
course, you would have to bet that that 
course would get offered. Departments 
that could attract students would expand
and prosper; those that could not would 
suffer. In addition, each department would 
be motivated to get research grants and 
contracts to support its research activities. 
I dont think you would find very many 
sleepy departments under this plan. In 
addition the administration would exercise 
control over about $9,000,000 of un
committed funds which it could use to 
promote one or another area, start new 
courses, or subsidize research activities in 
their planning stages.
WHY MUST WE CHANGE?
The management scientist views an 
organization as consisting of a number of 
decision centers. At each of these 
centers information is gathered about 
operations and decisions are made. For a 
university, these decision centers are the 
academic departments, service depart
ments, and independent research units. 
Each of these centers has an administrative 
head, a staff, a set of goals, and a budget 
for carrying out its mission. For example, 
the goals of the economics department 
consist (not in order or of equal impor
tance) of having high quality under
graduate courses, educating B.A. majors, 
offering masters level courses, offering 
Ph.D. courses, educating Ph.D. students, 
doing research of nationally recognized 
scope and quality, and interacting with 
other departments and research programs 
on campus to serve their needs.
One way of running an organization is 
to have a single individual gather all the 
facts and make all the decisions. Thus, 
President Cyert might attempt to decide 
for the economics department which new 
faculty members to hire, which to pro
mote, what courses to teach, and what the 
proper use of the Xerox machine is. We 
dont have to push this question very far to
see that no president could make these 
decisions for every department in the 
university. Unfortunately, many university 
presidents never realize this.
Another .way to run an organization is 
to attempt to decentralize much of the 
decision making (as Cyert has been 
attempting to do at CMU). No one on 
campus is more knowledgeable about how 
to best achieve the economics departments 
goals than the economics department. 
Thus, Cyerts job is to make sure that they 
have thought carefully about their goals, 
about how to achieve them, make sure that 
they have the proper goals and then give 
them the resources to achieve them.
President Cyert is responsible for 
judging whether a department has been 
successful in achieving its goals. Thus, he 
must evaluate their performance (including 
getting outside evaluations) to determine 
whether to praise them-or make some key 
personnel changes.
The key to running an organization well 
is not only to have decisions made by the 
people most knowledgeable, but to reward 
or punish the decision makers directly for 
the consequences of their actions. One goal 
of the university is to produce research of 
excellent quality. When faculty members 
are able to produce such research, they 
find it possible to obtain grants and con
tracts to expedite their work and support 
their activities. If the university acted to 
reduce a departments income whenever 
they receive a grant or contract (as some 
universities actually do), the faculty of the 
department would have no incentive to 
attempt to get grants and contracts. In
stead the university should allow faculty 
members and their departments to reap the 
rewards of their efforts by allowing the 
department to keep additional monies that 
it can raise.
Similarly, a goal of the university is to 
produce quality undergraduate education.
This requires attracting good applicants, 
offering the right courses, and teaching 
them well. At the moment there is no 
direct relationship between a departments 
education budget and the number of 
students enrolled in its courses. This means 
that a department gets no additional 
revenue for teaching a new course, for 
designing a new course to better answer 
needs, or for seeing that the quality of 
teaching is high. If students choose not to 
take a departments courses, the faculty 
has less work to do and can concentrate on 
its research or leisure.
Our faculty is a professional one with 
concern for its teaching and other goals. 
But all of the pressures on a faculty mem
ber (or department head or dean) are to 
give as little time to teaching as possible, 
given that minimum quality standards are 
satisfied. Wouldnt we expect improved 
performance if the rewards pushed the 
faculty and departments to teach better 
and offer courses that catered to students 
needs?
CONCLUSION
The curient system has no direct link 
between student enrollment and demands 
and departmental budgets. It has led the 
University to overextend itself in many 
areas and to run the consequent budget 
deficits that have plagued us in the past 
few years.
My plan is a simple one: A departments 
budget would consist of $250 for every 
student enrolling in its courses, plus what
ever grant or contract funds could be raised 
in competition with other professors. It has 
the virtue not only of tying a departments 
budget to its activities, it puts the responsi
bility squarely on the department to find 
ways to raise money, to be imaginative, 
and to better itself. No higher administra
tor can know better than the individual 
faculty member how best to improve their 
teaching and to offer courses geared to 
student needs. It would cure the deficit, 
raise the activity level, and make this an 
exciting university.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6--THE TARTANTuesday, January 23, 1973
ComputatioA CeAter News
XATtc M I /tee s
The following rate changes will become effective Feb. 1. A complete list of rates 
and services is available in 5216 Science Hall and at the third floor I/O counter.
IBM 360/67 TSS
Non-migratable on-line storage (non-subsidized account use only) 
Print job surcharge (for jobs not read on customer card reader or
printed on customer printer)
$.01/page/day 
$.40/job
UNI VAC 1108 EXEC II
Job Surcharge *
CPU Time - Class D^and Class I
0-1 minute
1-2 minutes
2-4 minutes 
4-10 minutes 
10-24 minutes 
24-48 minutes 
over 48 minutes
^Class A 
JClass B 
^Class C
2.0 times Class D 
1.3 times Class D
1.1 times Class D
^Non-subsidized account use only
$.50/job 
$300/hour
$5/first min + $240/hr/each additional min 
$9/first 2 min + $120/hr/each additional min 
$13/first 4 min + $40/hr/each additional min 
$17/first 10 min + $30/hr/each additional min
$24/first 24 min + $60/hr/each additional min
$48/first 48 min + $120/hr/each additional min
PRINTING, PUNCHING, CARD INPUT & TAPE HANDLING
charaes same as those for the 360.
WATFIV, PL/C and PLAGO 
Printing over 4 pages $.04/page
CALC0MP PLOTTER
Plotter use$l/hour
Expanded Service for 1108 Customers
The 1108 network allows 1108 cus
tomers to use the facilities of the 360 for 
conversationally editing and submitting 
jobs and examining output. This interface 
between the 360 and the 1108 enables the 
360 to send jobs to the 1108, and allows 
the 1108 to send output to the 360.
Advantages to the 1108 customer in
clude:
1) ability to correct typing errors by back
spacing and retyping
2) positive acknowledgement that a job has 
been submitted
3) ability to examine output at a terminal 
before printing
4) freedom from carrying and storing card 
decks
5) no waiting to use a keypunch or card 
reader
6) no need to recover from read checks and 
feed stops on the reader
7) no waiting for output to be printed and 
filed
TYPESET can be used to create and 
edit jobs conversationally, making the 
complete substitution of on-line storage for 
punched cards feasible. (Complete docu
mentation of the TYPESET system is avail
able in the bookstore.)
A short document which gives more in
formation on the use of the 1108 network, 
New Print and Punch Destinations for 
1108 Jobs, is available free at the third 
floor service counter.
Optical Mark Cards Available
Optical mark (OMR) cards are now 
available in the keypunch area. These cards 
eliminate the need for keypunching, but 
are read in through the customer card 
reader, just like keypunched cards. Letters, 
numbers, special characters, and FOR
TRAN or PL/1 keywords are represented 
on OMR cards by filling in one or more of 
the printed blocks with a pencil.
Two kinds of OMR cards are available: 
PL/1-PL/C-PLAGO and FORTRAN-WATFIV. The representation of single char
acters is the same on both cards, but 
PL/1-PL/C-PLAGO cards provide blocks 
for PL/1 keywords and FORTRAN-WATFIV cards provide blocks for FORTRAN 
keywords and statement numbers.
OMR cards can be used to write pro
grams for both the 360 and the 1108.
Instructions for filling out the cards are 
available at the service counter. The dia
gram below shows how the number 1096 
would be represented on an optical FORTRAN-WATFIV card:
Job Limits to be Changed
The limit for WATFIV, PL/C, and 
PLAGO jobs will be changed to 10 per day 
as of February 1. If you need a larger limit, 
please submit your request and require
ments to the Computation Center office, 
5216 Science Hall.
New Computing Account Classes
As of February 1, all Computation Cen
ter accounts will be classified as either sub
sidized or non-subsidized. This new classifi
cation system, which was recommended by 
the deans and the Vice President for Aca
demic Affairs, will provide optimum ser
vice to non-subsidized accounts at the ex
pense of service to subsidized accounts.
Subsidized accounts will include those 
funded by the university in order to use 
excess computing capacity. Non-subsidized 
accounts will include all accounts funded 
by non-university sources, such as grants 
and contracts, and General Education 
accounts.
Advanced Education and Research 
accounts will be considered subsidized. 
However, each department should submit a 
list of these accounts to the dean for his 
approval as non-subsidized. The dean may 
change the status of those accounts which 
he feels would receive university support 
even if excess computing capacity did not 
exist. Funds for such priority changes must 
be granted directly from the deans 
account.
Customers will be affected by the new 
classification system in the following ways: 
SUBSIDIZED
1. can be nudged by any non-subsidized 
conversational customers
2. are restricted to conversational Class R
3. are restricted to batch Class I (jobs will 
run only after all Class A,B,C, and D jobs 
have run)
4. datasets will be migrated frequently 
NON-SUBSIDIZED
1. cannot be nudged by subsidized 
accounts
2. conversational tasks will normally run in 
Class S, but have the option of using con
versational Class T
3. can run batch jobs in Class A, B,*C, or D
4. have dataset migration biased in their 
favor
FORTRAN Attention Handler
An attention handling subroutine has 
been added to the TSS/360 FORTRAN 
system. This routine can be used to prevent 
a FORTRAN program from being stopped 
by an attention interrupt, e.g., pressing 
BREAK on a teletype.
The attention handler is enabled by the 
statement:
CALL ATTNON(SWITCH,&n) 
where SWITCH has been declared as a 
LOGICAL* 1 variable, and n is the state
ment number in the calling program that 
control will branch to in case of an error.
An error implies that the attention 
handler was not enabled properly. If the 
command doesnt work the second time 
through, you should probably ABEND.
If an attention interrupt is received 
while the attention handler is enabled, 
SWITCH will be set to true but the pro
gram will not be stopped. An IF statement 
can be used to test SWITCH to determine 
if an interrupt has occurred.
Control of attention interrupts is re
turned to TSS by the statement:
CALL ATTNOF
New FORTRAN Time Routines
Two FORTRAN time routines have 
been added to TSS. They are: DATTIM, 
which will enter the current date as an 
eight-character string in a program, and 
CPUTIM, which can be used to compute 
the amount of CPU time a program has 
used. (See below for further information.)
DATTIM
DATTIM transfers its input to the 
assembly macro EBCDTIME, and 
returns the value received from 
EBCDTIME. A complete explanation of
the input format for EBCDTIME can be 
found in the IBM manual, Assembler User 
Macro Instructions, available in the 
manual racks in the third floor public 
terminal area.
The command form is CALL 
DATTIM(A), where (A) is a REAL*8 
variable initially assigned an eight-character 
string. For example:
REAL*8 DATE,MASK/MO/DD/YY/
DATE=MASK
CALL DATTIM (DATE)
PRINT 2, DATE 
2 FORMAT (1X,A8)
END
Output from the program will appear in 
the form 01/12/73. Ten mask formats 
besides MO, DD, and YY can be specified 
in the eight-character mask. They include 
HH for hours, MM for minutes, and SS for 
seconds.
CPUTIM
The statement CALL CPUTIM (I) 
will set the integer variable I to the 
number of microseconds of CPU time since 
LOGON. For example:
CALL CPUTIM (II)
(sequence to be timed)
CALL CPUTIM (12)
IT=I2-I1
(IT is the number of microseconds of 
actual execution.)
Looking for a Job?
Editorial Assistants
Part-time employees are needed to assist 
in preparing technical literature for the 
Computation Center. Familiarity with the 
TYPESET system is preferable, but not 
required. If you would like to apply for 
this position, call ext. 615.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, January 23, 1973-Page 7
*r- 'wi
....................1
*In*It In]
j
The PDP-8
Keypuncher
The Computation Center would like to 
hire a full-time keypuncher (preferably ex
perienced) to work from now until the end 
of May. Anyone who is interested may 
apply in 5216 Science Hall.
Improved FORTRAN to be Installed
The improved FORTRAN processor 
(FORTRAN 25) will be installed as the 
standard FORTRAN within the next few 
weeks. You may use FORTRAN 25 now, 
however, by indicating NEW on the 
language processor card.
To activate the current FORTRAN after 
FORTRAN 25 has been installed, you will 
have to indicate OLD on the language 
processor card.
The only difference you will notice is 
that FORTRAN 25 includes two additional 
commands, ENCODE and DECODE, which 
can be compared to WRITE and READ 
statements respectively. Rather than trans
ferring data between a peripheral unit and 
main storage, it is transferred between 
areas of main storage. In this way, informa
tion can be moved from block to list while 
manipulating it with format specifications 
without accessing a physical peripheral de
vice.
All other differences are internal and 
result in making FORTRAN 25 a more 
correct compiler.
Computer Club to be Formed
A computer club is being formed to 
help interested individuals become aware 
of computer resources at CMU, while in
creasing their knowledge of computer 
science in general.
If you would like to join the club, call 
ext. 197 and leave your name and tele
phone number. You will be contacted 
within the next month or so regarding the 
organizational meeting. The club is being 
sponsored by Alpha Phi Omega and the 
Computation Center.
Photo by Henry Collins
Self-Education Account Increased
The student self-education account 
(Y415) has been increased from $1.00 to 
$2.50 per month. The increase become 
effective January 1.
All registered students may use these 
funds for the three card systems available 
on the 360 (WATFIV, PL/C, and PLAGO), 
and for timesharing on the PDP-8. (If you 
wish to use Y415 funds for TSS-8, see 
Student Account for PDP-8 Timesharing 
in this issue for the application procedure.)
Your customer number, which is needed 
to gain access to the computer, is posted 
on the bulletin board inside the door to the 
keypunch area. Your Y415 customer 
number will be different from the cus
tomer number for any other accounts you 
may have. Your student, number is your 
initial password, but should be changed 
immediately to protect your account.
Student Account for PDP-8 Timesharing
A monthly allocation of $5 is available 
to students who wish to use TSS/8, a time
sharing system available on the PDP-8 com
puter. To take advantage of this allocation, 
leave your name at the Computation Cen
ter office, 5216 Science Hall. You will then 
be joined to the system and should return 
to the office for your account number and 
password.
Languages available on TSS/8 include 
BASIC, FORTRAN, FOCAL, Assembler, 
Text Editor, Loader, and Conversational 
Debugger. TSS/8 provides simultaneous 
access for up to 17 customers and is much 
cheaper than TSS on the 360.
Customers are connected to TSS/8 
through the teletypes marked PDP-8 in 
the back of the teletype room, or through 
remote terminals by dialing 687-5730. The 
PDP-8 is up 24 hours a day, seven days a 
week.
ON STAGE: Academy Award Winner
NIXON THEATRE: Mon. Jan 29 thru Sat. Feb. 3 
Matiness: 2 p.m. Wed. 2 
Student Tickets $2.50 for Mon, Jan. 29 And Tues, Jan. 30 ONLY
Mardi Gras
PITTSBURGH COLLEGE STUDENT TRIP 
TO NEW ORLEANS
MARCH t2-8
FOUR NIGHTS IN NEW ORLEANS 
HOTEL COLUMNS
ROUND-TRIP DELUXE GREYHOUND COACH 
ALL INCLUSIVE$121.00
For More Information, Call: 
Pittsburgh Student Travel 
Duquesne University 
434-6667 or 279-5909
Bethlehem Steel
Compu/Interview/
February 8
Steel is the backbone of American 
business and industry, and Bethlehem 
is our countrys second-largest steel 
producer. And, when it comes to 
progressiveness, were second 
to none.
If you're thinking career, think 
seriously about the Bethlehem Steel 
Loop Course Ask your placement 
officer about it; see our specification 
sheet; pick up a copy of our booklet, 
Bethlehem Steel's Loop Course," at 
the placement office. Most important 
of all, sign up for a campus interview.
Heres how you might fit in at 
Bethlehem Steel:
Engineering and Technical Degrees
Steel Plant Operations
Fabricated Steel Construction
Mining
Sales
Research
Shipbuilding
Business and Arts Degrees
Sales
Accounting
The Bethlehem Steel Loop Course 
since 1922, our program for recruiting, 
orienting, and training college 
graduates for careers in management. 
Talk over your career prospects with 
our campus representative.
ST U
An equa* opf> 
employer

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8THE TARTANTuesday, January 23, 1973
ENTERTAINMENT
Special
E. L. Doctorow and The Book of Daniel
Doctorow reading from his workPhoto by Henry Collins
Theatre
Teresa Wright iA "Marigolds
//
Teresa Wright will star in the 1971 
Pulitzer Prize play, The Effect of the 
Gamma Rays on the Man-in-the-Moon 
Marigolds by Paul Zindel, at the Nixon 
Theatre for one week beginning Monday, 
January 29.
The most honored play of the past 
decade, Marigolds has been awarded the 
Pulitzer Prize, the New York Drama Critics 
Circle Award, the Obie, the Variety Poll 
of Critics award, and--most recently-seven 
Los Angeles Critics Circle Awards and five 
Jefferson Awards in Chicago.
Teresa Wright, who won an Academy 
Award in Mrs. Miniver and was also 
nominated for Oscars in The Little 
Foxes and Pride of the Yankees, will 
star in the play which had a run of 819 
performances in New York. Miss Wright 
has starred on Broadway in William Inges 
The Dark at the Top of the Stairs,
Whos Happy Now? by Oliver Hailey and 
I Never Sang for My Father, which was 
written by her husband, Robert Anderson. 
She also won Emmy Award nominations as 
Annie Sullivan in The Miracle Worker 
and as Margaret Bourke-White in The 
Margaret Bourke-White Story on tele
vision.
Featured in the cast are Alexandra 
Stoddart, Robin Nolan, Helen Ross and 
Carol Potter.
The play deals with a fatherless house
hold headed by a domineering, embittered 
and acid-tongued mother, and the struggle 
of her brilliant but plain daughter to win 
recognition in the shadow of her more 
attractive and popular sister.
Marigolds was the first success of Paul 
Zindel, now 35, who has since written 
And Miss Reardon Drinks a Little and 
The Secret Affairs of Mildred Wild for
by StepheA Hamm
The night before E. L. Doctorow came 
to town a lot of people stayed up late and 
read the first couple hundred pages of his 
novel, The Book of Daniel. They got a 
good idea of what the man was like as a 
writer and they got an inkling of what he 
would be like as a human being. Daniel 
is a powerful book. It is serious, demanding 
oi the reader, and at times funny. It has a 
historic truth that stands on its own 
vitality. You dont feel that you have to do 
research into the social events of the past 
thirty years to substantiate the reality and 
horror that the book conveys about them 
through its characters and situations. The 
book could be about the Rosenbergs.
The Book of Daniel is a novel about 
the Issacsons, Paul and Rochelle and their 
children Daniel and Susan. The story is 
told from the point of view of Daniel, who 
is a graduate student at Columbia in 1968 
when the novel begins. Daniel tells about 
the events leading up to his parents trial 
and execution for espionage, about the im
pact of those events on the children, and 
about Daniels and Susans subsequent 
difficulties in dealing with life in these 
United States. Susan joins the New Left 
protest movement and ends her days 
spread-eagled on a bed in the Worcester 
State Mental Hospital. Daniel goes to 
Columbia and marries a flower child wife 
whom he brutalizes for several years while 
he founders in the mystery of his psyche. 
Finally, Daniel sets out to find out the 
truth about his parents, the Old Left, the 
United States, the New Left and himself. 
What he finds out is that everyone forgets 
or tries to forget the tragedies of the 
Modern Era. And those who dont forget 
are either destroyed or, hopefully in his 
case, saved as human beings.
Its a great book. Joyce Carol Oates says 
this about it:
A nearly perfect work of art, a cause 
for rejoicing . . . The tension that 
Doctorow builds--and this work is a kind of 
intellectual thriller- is sometimes nearly 
unbearable. The Book of Daniel is not 
only compels a reader to read it-eagerly, 
fearfully, perhaps desperately--but to 
assimilate its terrible wisdom into the 
readers' life, so that life itself seems 
altered. I can think of no higher praise for 
a work of fiction.
THE ENGLISH LECTURE SERIES
When Doctorow walked into Breed Hall 
everybody was ready to hear some good 
fiction and they werent disappointed. He 
read first from his first novel, Welcome to 
Hard Times, a book about survival in the 
old west. The story was dramatic and the 
language was simple, spare, and invisible in 
the best sense. Then he read from 
Daniel. He read the section where Daniel 
and Susan escape from the Childrens 
Shelter and make their way across the 
Bronx to their home, hoping to reverse the 
course of events that separated them from 
their parents. The writing was intensely 
dramatic and the drama was sustained by 
the powerful verbal images of the life in 
the streets of New York City coupled with 
the determination and fear of the children. 
Here, Doctorows language was not in
visible. To conclude the reading he chose a 
segment from his work in progress. It was 
the story of a visit by Harry Houdini to a 
middle class family in a New York suburb 
in 1904. The writing was crammed with 
crazed images, understatement, dry humor, 
and bullshit. It was a relief after the
strangle hold of Daniel.
LUNCH WITH E.L.
When the reading was over Doctorow 
was free to do what he liked so Steve 
Saunders and Shelley Burhans from the 
TARTAN, Terry Sterne from the Fiction 
Workshop, and I took him downtown to 
look at Pittsburgh and to eat lunch at the 
Oyster House on Market Square. On the 
way down he told us about the screenplay 
to Daniel which he had just finished 
writing. He talked about how the movie 
will probably be different from the book 
and about how the role of the novel in 
culture is changing. He said nobody reads 
novels now except screenwriters and they 
only use the plots.
 Welcome to Hard Times has been a 
goldmine for the Westerns,he said. Ive 
seen that plot a hundred times in films.
He asked us if there were alcoholic 
drinks at the Oyster House and we told 
him the Oyster House is a bar. Somebody 
reminded him of the claims he had made 
the day before about abstinence from 
drugs, sex, and alcohol.
I break those rules, he said.
We arrived at the Oyster House and got 
a table. Doctorow bought fish sandwiches 
and beers and told us how The Book of 
Daniel came to be written the way it is. 
He had started of by writing 150 pages in a 
straight expositional style with a normal 
time sequence. Then, one day, he read 
what he had written from beginning to end 
and decided that it was the most boring 
novel he had ever read. He thought that if a 
writer could have the material that he had 
and still make it boring, he must be a 
terrible writer. The severest depression of 
his life set in.
I hit rock bottom. And when I was at 
the rock bottom there was nothing for me 
to do, so I sat down at the typewriter and 
started again.
He talked about Daniel for a while 
more and then he stopped.
Im sick of that story by now, he 
said.
We asked him about publishing. He was 
in publishing for nine years, and five of 
those were spent as the editor-in-chief of 
the Dial Press. He told us how, before he 
had the job at Dial, a strange man kept 
following him around. It turned out that 
the guy was the owner of Dial and he 
wanted Doctorow to be the editor. 
Doctorow didnt give a shit about the job 
but the owner of Dial Press was insistant 
and finally E.L. took the job.
If you dont want something bad 
enough you may slip into it, Doctorow 
said, commenting on this experience.
E.L. had called up Kaufmans before he 
came to Pittsburgh to make sure they 
would have his book in stock and he 
wanted to see if they had payed any 
attention to him. So, we walked up to 
Kaufmans after we finished eating lunch. 
There were big sales going on in the book 
department of Kaufmans. Books were 
heaped on tables with hastily scrawled 
announcements of cut-rate bargains sus
pended above them on wires. The Book 
of Daniel wasnt visible, so I approached a 
sales person and asked her if she knew 
where I could find it.
I remember a title like that in the 
horizontal stacks, she said.
We looked in the horizontal stacks and 
found The Book of Daniel in a stack of 
books behind another stack of books. One
copy. Doctorow removed it and placed it 
up on the vertical stacks in front of 
Vanity Fair.
We left Kaufmans and walked down to 
Market Square where the car was parked. 
In the Square we saw one eight-year-old 
street kid get slugged in the mouth by 
another one. The attacker ran off and the 
other kid sat down on a bench, crying and 
spitting a little blood. Doctorow asked us if 
wed ever been in fights and told us about 
how he once lost half a tooth in a fight.
Always keep your mouth closed, he 
told us, and carry a mouth piece when
ever you go into a bar.
So ended the afternoon with E.L. 
Doctorow. We drove back to CMU on the 
Allies and looked at the steel mills. He told 
us he liked Pittsburgh.
Broadway. Mr. Zindel also wrote the 
screenplays of the films, Up the Sand
box, starring Barbra Streisand, and the 
forthcoming Marne.
The production which will be seen at 
the Nixon is presented by Theatre Now, 
Inc., under the direction of Leland Ball. 
The sets, costumes and lighting are by the 
designers of the original New York pro
duction: Fred Voelpel, Sara Brook and 
Martin Aronstein, respectively. James 
Reichert has provided the music and 
sound, as he did for the original pro
duction.
Marigolds will play the Nixon at 8:30 
p.m. from Monday, Jan. 29 through Satur
day, Feb. 3 with matinees at 2 p.m. Wed
nesday, Jan. 24 and 2:30 p.m. Saturday, 
February 3.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, January 23, 1973-Page 9
The Object of Art
by Michael Mesaras
There is a human being; he goes to a place where he decides the site of his ritual 
is to occur. He stands in this place which could be an attic, bathroom, dance studio, 
theatre, barn, or four lane highway. He carries within his body all things aquired 
from his cultural history both intellectual and biological. The particular nature of 
the ritualistic hardwear this human being chooses in some ways restricts and 
defines the specific qualities of the result before he, the artist-man, begins.
This hardwear, these tools, in many cases are very ancient, usually as old as 
the roots of the culture that surrounds him. These tools may make sound, hold 
colored liquid at the end of many tightly bound hairs at the end of a stick, they 
may be a^sharp knife, a typewriter, a camera, ballet slippers or a band saw. It may 
be any one of these or others or any combination of these and others which will be 
used during the ceremony. This artist-man; with varying mixtures of skill, intent, 
thought and practice, will combine himself with his chosen tools. This combination 
of artist-man and expression-tools has many degrees of completion. Some artist-men simply have these expression-tools near their bodies while for others the 
distinction of what they are and what the tool is totally disappears.
Now that the artist-man is now completely prepared to behave the way he 
intended, he begins to do so. At this point it is important to recognize what the 
combined artist-man-tool is going to effect. If he is a combination of a man and a 
bassoon he should not expect the result to be seen on a rectangualr piece of canvas, 
but be ready to effect the air and the ear. It is also unlikely that a combination of a 
man and a paint-brush will make a pretty melody. So it is important for the 
artist-man-tool to understand his format or target so that the combinations which 
have already taken place with much effort will not weaken because the right means 
were used for the wrong ends. By attempting sounds that are beautiful colors or 
expecting the typewriter to bow low after its performance of Swan Lake  will 
only cause an artist great distress.
The artist-man-tool-artwork is now complete if there is no distinction between 
any of the four elements. At this point the intended result occurs and life is filled 
and expressed After the artist dcides his ritual is completed, he leaves the place of 
activity and in many cases leaves space-consuming objects of all descriptions 
behind. These things are the objects and manuscripts called Art. In terms of the 
artist these things are similar to left-overs and decorations after a party. The 
importance of this residue from the artists behavior now has a lesser importance to 
the artist than it does for the people he presents it to. The artist realizes that no 
other person could go through this process of ritualization precisely the way he has, 
but the nature f the objectis to guide the viewer in reconstructing his ritual.
If the artist was complete at the moment the object was being produced then 
that object will contain within it a clear path for the viewer to recreate that ritual 
in its full importance to the artist. This path is a path through the object  to the 
artist where the meaning of the symbol is. In a man.
Films aAd TelevisioA
ACTIVITIES
Webra
a oAim
 l 6,
- B#>u.
*iese fle ^osr5 cf ?
O r THE tfbfkk I 
u 1 ^ E A oo-T Trtf
wiTv* Trtf FOui
t'f OoNOVW?)
The Getaway
by Win ton Snyder
The Getaway, directed by Sam Peck
inpah, scripted by Walter Hill. Now playing 
at the Stanley Theater, 7th and Penn.
In The Getaway, Sam Peckinpah has 
selected a choice group of cinematic cli
ches, backed them with his customary fire
works display and managed ultimately only 
to tarnish his reputation as a competent 
director. The Getaway is a caper flick 
and true to its genre it expects the audi
ence to surrender the requirement of 
screen realism in exchange for a crime 
story that is reasonably paced, almost plau
sible, and worthy of attention. The range 
of these films is from the mildly comic 
(Gambit) to the mildly serious 
(Dollars).
Caper flicks as a rule aspire to no more 
serious an end than the perfection of their 
craft. Peckinpah, however, has always as
pired, if not to the attainment of more 
noble ends, at least to the manufacture of 
more serious motion pictures. Over the 
past decade the name Peckinpah has 
become a guarantee that certain human 
foibles will be examined. Violence, primar
ily directed at and by men, was the usual 
punchline. Any fuzzy editing or other in
consistent elements were swept away by 
the style and scope of the last shoot out. 
The Getaway reneges on the Peckinpah 
guarantee.
In the opening sequence Steve McQueen 
is shown as a convict in a Texas prison. The 
scenes were designed one presumes, to 
show the origin and extent of McQueens 
desperation after serving four years in jail. 
Yet one was given no visual clue to the 
origin of McQueens paranoia in the lock
up. Peckinpah ineptly portrayed prison life 
as a series of rapid and varied occurrences, 
full of light, movement and sound. There 
was no sense of confinement or fatigue. 
Indeed, no one in this penitentiary stayed 
in one spot for more than a few seconds. 
Even the repetition of shots intended to 
represent the monotony of a machine oper
ators job were rushed by at such great 
speed as to be ineffective.
Nonetheless, McQueen bargains for his 
parole. The plot, summarized upon 
release, was so implausible and silly, that it 
was an irritant throughout the film. 
McQueen was obliged to pull off a bank 
job to gain his parole. He was aided in this 
effort by his wife, Ali MacGraw. A series of 
errors and double-crosses complicated the 
venture but could not prevent the expected 
artillery barrage and eventual escape.
The films major contribution to the 
demise of Peckinpahs reputation as a di
rector was in the lack of a suspenseful 
atmosphere. In a caper film obviously sus
pense should be a high priority item, but 
Peckinpah continually thwarted tension 
through his scene selection and editing. 
The standard caper cliches (as the stalled 
.car, the losing of the loot, the dumb cops) 
that Peckinpah collected for the robbery 
and esxape seemed blunted and ponderous. 
During the robbery itself, the buildup of 
tension was defeated by the cavalier atti
tude of the participants and the sluggish 
movement of the camera from one anti-climax to another.
Walter Hills screenplay must share part 
of the blame for this anti-suspense qual
ity. All of the principal characters were left 
undeveloped, unemotional, and conse
quently uninteresting. In the past Peck
inpah was listed as a co-author of his 
movies. Considering the miserable dialogue
in The Getaway one isnt surprised that 
he left his name off the credits this time. 
Humore cropped up now and again, an 
addition one suspects designed to mask the 
laughter that Peckinpahs violence always 
seems to evoke. In Straw Dogs the laugh
ter was unnerving and surely nor intended. 
In The Getaway any unanticipated 
laughter could be rationalized by the delib
erately comic portions. Also, the usage of 
four letter words to gain guffaws was hard
ly a significant addition to film technique.
Ms. MacGraws performance was so 
dreadful that one almost did not notice the 
plethora of nonacting that surrounded her. 
Only A1 Lettieri and Sally Struthers got a 
little air into the film through their two 
supporting roles. Although Ms. Struthers 
performance was superior to Ms. Mac
Graws, the formers role as a willing kid
nap victim made no demands whatsoever 
on her skill.
The final aggravating quality of The 
Getaway was Peckinpahs aforementioned 
guarantee. The shot gun murders perpet
rated by McQueen during the finale were 
photographed in a cursory and uninterest
ing manner. The slow motion photography 
destroyed the sense of time and made the 
murders distant. Again, any tension deve
loped, was dissipated. In Straw Dogs 
great emotional impact was established 
through the staging and performance. 
Dustin Hoffmans helpless and complete 
involvement in the act of killing made for a 
compelling and significant piece of film. 
McQueens lack of emotion as he gunned 
down his pursuers revealed nothing and 
reduced the films conclusion to a trivial 
event.
Indeed, if not for the preceeding reels 
one might think that The Getaways 
finish was a parody of standard Peckinpah. 
Unfortunately this was not the case. 
Portions of Peckinpahs prior work had 
been excellent. The bank robbery in Wild 
Bunch, much of The Ballad of Cable 
Hogue, and less of Straw Dogs pos
sessed the economy and clarity of meaning 
that The Getaway lacks. Only one bit in 
The Getaway was appealing; when Steve 
McQueen imagined, then realized a plunge 
into a local swimming hole. The correct 
pacing and use of montage created a de
lightful little scene, one that was not dupli
cated in the remainder of the film.
The real problem with Peckinpah might 
be his belief that the profound is contained 
in the banal. When, during an interview, 
Peckinpah was asked about his philosophy 
he replied, My father said it all one day ..
All I want is to enter my house justified 
and When the time comes, he used to say, 
you stand and be counted. If such empty 
platitudes represent Peckinpahs concept of 
the world, then The Getaway, bland 
though it may be, was the best one could 
expect.
1776
starring William Daniels, Howard Da Silva 
produced by Jack L. Warner 
directed by Peter H. Hunt
1776 fails in many repects. Most no
table among these is the somewhat prepost
erous idea of making the story of the De
claration of Independence into a humorous 
musical. The music is fair to good though 
some is downright silly. There is nothing 
particularly memorable about the music, or 
likewise about the acting. 1776 is in
offensively pleasant and is passable as en
tertainment if you like its type of offering.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-THE TARTANTuesday, January 23, 1973
Interview
Mackstage withJuliaA BoAd
Photo by Bruce Edelston
Julian Bond, speaking in the ballroom on Saturday night.
by Debbie Siegel
The Georgia legislator, Julian Bond 
spoke to a large audience on Saturday 
night about the state of politics, eco
nomics, and minority status in this coun
try. Prior to his formal speech, the 
TARTAN carried on a private interview 
with Mr. Bond. When asked why he came 
to CMU, Mr. Bond replied, There were 
three main reasons. First, I was asked. 
Secondly , I make my living doing speeches 
and third, 1 still believe that college age 
people, contrary to popular belief, are very 
capable of being put in positions of great 
responsibility.
Since 1968, WTien Mr. Bond was nom
inated to the Vice Presidency, he has been 
re-elected to the state legislature in 1968, 
1970, and 1972. He spends 40 days a year 
in the legislature and spent a fair amount 
of time speaking particularly in the south. 
Within the past 18 months, he has gone on 
a voter registration tour through the south 
where he spoke approximately eleven times 
a day. Mr. Bond sees the problem of taxes 
as the main issue in the Georgia House.
When asked if he had any national 
political aspirations, Bond said, At this 
point I dont see too much chance of 
advancing. I couldnt run against the Black 
congressmen from the district I live in as he 
was just sworn in and hasnt had a chance 
to do anything yet and I dont think I 
could beat Senator Herman Tawnridge. But 
you cant tell what will happen from today 
to tomorrow. Right now, it doesnt appear 
too realistic that from Georgia legislature I 
will get to the Presidency of the United 
States.
Mr. Bond sees potential power in Con
gress, but says, The people who are 
against the Nixon administration have been 
relatively quiet during the past two years. 
The senate began to lose power when it let 
Johnson widen his powers to declare war. 
A few individuals occasionally speak out, 
but when it comes down to the crunch 
they just dont have the strength to over
come precedent.
From 1960 to 1965, Mr. Bond worked 
on the Student Non-violent Co-ordinating 
Committe. We began to change things
with a series of actions to de-segregrate 
lunch counters and buses. When we won 
equal voting rights, we started to register 
voters in the rural areas. The thought came 
to us its no good for us to tell you just to 
register. You need people to vote for. In 
rural areas of Alabama and Mississippi we 
tried to convince these people to run for 
positions such as county commissioner so 
to use their potential power. The people 
need a choice to vote for and its no good 
just convincing them to vote. The state 
legislature was re-apportioned in 1965 and 
there was a chance for a Black person to be 
elected so I ran.
In regard to Mr. Nixons policies 
Mr.Bond looks very pessimistically at 
another four years. He believes in the 
work ethic for some and the welfare ethic 
for others. If youre an oil well millionaire 
then he believes in the welfare ethic for 
you in that you ought to get a depletion 
allowance. Certain aircraft industries are 
also on the welfare ethic for they may get 
government subsidy. But if youre a poor 
person, Black, or even Mayor of a city like 
Pittsburgh and want a government subsidy, 
Richard Nixon believes that you should do
it for yourself. Mr. Bond expressed admir
ation for Ted Kennedy who he thinks at 
this point is a most likely candidate for the 
presidency in 1976. He also believes there 
ought to be an extension of staff in 
congress where there can be more people 
who are paid less, but will have to make 
better use of varied resources.
Mr. Bond is now 33 and does not see 
himself as that young. When I was 25, and 
ran for the state legislature my opponent 
was 35 and suggested that I was young and 
still had time. But, the Georgia legislature 
says that you only have to be 21 to be 
eligible to run. In regard to his feelings 
toward the womens movement, Mr. Bond 
cited an incident that occurred when he 
was entering Skibo. I was holding the 
door open for two girls and they told me 
to go in ahead of them. But I held the door 
because I wanted to. I would have done the 
same for a man. Mr. Bonds thesis as a 
servant of the government is that women, 
just like Black people and other minorities, 
deserve to be listened to as people. In his 
speech he mentioned that Blacks are often 
over-organized; however, the point of 
striving for equality is a clear one.______
Frat Busted
continued from page 1 
participated in the act bycondoning it. 
Everyone knew something illegal was going 
on which is a distinction I must make as 
you all did participate in an activity that is 
detrimental to the university. Misnamed 
loyalty to ones peers never excuses com
promising ones integrity or ethiAs or re
lieves one of responsibility. Cyert also 
mentioned hearing that a person from the 
staff of WRCT was aware of what was 
going on and others might also have 
known.
Other students were apprehensive as to 
Why is the Carnegie -Mellon University 
going beyond what society is doing, 
especially when the civil authorities arent 
taking actions like the univerity is? It was 
also pointed out that the law against 
marijuana has become rather obsolete. 
Cyert responded, Citizens have a respon
sibility to work for the changing of laws if 
they believe them to be incorrect. Just 
because there may be a lax in the rest of 
society, means we must face up to the 
responsibility of behavior in this group. In 
reaction to the idea that Cyert is viewing 
the issue as a matter of civil disobedience, 
Cyert defined Civil Disobedience would 
be a call for deliberate action to symbolize 
a protest. An example would be burning a
draft card which is an open and clear vio
lation of the law. I would not take such 
action if the matter was a case of civil 
disobedience. This case consisted of value 
judgements and an attempt to hide things 
during the inspection period.
In a private interview with members of 
Beta Sima Rho, they conveyed their 
feelings about the community they live in. 
Beta Sigma Rho is composed of indi
viduals who are allowed to pursue their 
own interests. This does not mean that 
there is no interaction or discussion on 
pursuits which may jeopardize the house. 
Rather, various groups voice their opinions 
and respect another groups right not to 
change if they believe that what they are 
doing is right. This statement has led to 
questions concerning the role of the 
fraternitys position in obeying the laws 
such as serving alcoholic beverages to stu
dents under 21.
As the meeting concluded, President 
Cyert stated, 1 would be pleased if the 
action we have taken could develop into 
something positive and 1 would be glad if 
further meetings were called to aid the 
campus community. Members of the 
fraternity were appreciative of the time 
President Cyert spent in considering their 
arguments. They also expressed privately 
their gratitude to Dean Williams for raising 
bail and for his willingness to help in the 
matter.
CMU Students concerned about filing In
come Tax returns for the year 1972 should 
be aware of the following regulations.
1. If you made less than $2,050 gross in
come during 1972, including interest and 
dividends, you need not file a return and 
are not subject to any tax.
2. If you made less than $2,050 gross in
come and any tax was withheld from your 
salary, you must file a return - 1040A - in 
order to get this money back. You are 
entitled to a full refund.
3. If you made over $2,050 gross income, 
you must file a 1040A.
4. The exemption this year is $750, up 
from $675 last year.
5. The standard is 15% or $2,000 which
ever is less.
If your needs are not met by the above 
information, you can call the IRS Inform
ation Service in Pittsburgh or visit their 
office at 1000 Liberty Avenue. The hours 
are as follows:
Monday & Thursday 8:30 am - 7:00 pm 
Tues. Wed. & Fri. 8:30 am - 5:00 pm 
Saturday 9:00 am -1:00 pm
CMU Gets Provost
continued from page 1
The expertise of Arnold Weber will, 
according to President Cyert, aid the devel
opment of a public policy orientation at 
CM-U. Weber is a prominent labor econo
mist, who comes to CM-U from the Grad
uate School of Business at the University 
of Chicago and who has worked in the 
Nixon Administration since 1969; most 
recently serving as Special Assistant on the 
Cost of Living Council.
Edward Schatz, Vice President of Aca
demic Affairs since 1964, will assume the 
office of Provost of CIT, MIS, and CFA. 
His association has been with the Engineer
ing Department as professor, Assistant and 
Associate Dean of the College of Engineer
ing and Science and later as Dean of Re
search. The new grouping of colleges is not 
intended to cause division, he claimed, la
belling it instead, a grouping of activities 
for academic purposes. He further ex
plained that this particular grouping was 
decfdedXipon after several discussions, with 
the deans, associate deans and the Faculty 
Policy Committee. Clearly, GSIA, SUPA 
and H&SS share a common interest in the 
social sciences. The less logical grouping of 
CIT, MIS and CFA is not haphazard, Dr. 
Schatz stressed. CIT and MIS have obvious 
mutual interests. Schatz said he has, 
worked with them before so it seemed 
natural to put Fine Arts in his group. This 
is not meant to infer that the grouping was 
accidental, yet Dr. Schatz said it, was not 
intentional.
As for his particular role as Provost, 
Schatz felt that he would serve the inter
ests of the three colleges, Were going to 
have better education. When asked what 
this meant to the Fine Arts College he 
referred to their lack of space and the need 
for better salaries for faculty members.
The functions of Provost were partially 
clarified: the Provosts approval would be 
sssential in all hiring decisions; he would 
have a budget making role, as well as one 
of innovator. In brief, it is the duty of the 
Provost to help determine what kinds of 
policies and priorities have to be set to 
ensure a better university.
This post arouses certain fears and has 
raised specific questions including: What 
power will the provosts actually possess? 
Cyert responded, They will be able to 
overrule ... just as I may, but we dont 
operatethat way. He went on to say that 
neithe.r post will diminish the deans posi
tions. It is not an aristocratic office, 
rather an advisory position as co-ordin-.tor.
Public policy orientation coupled with 
efficiency seems to be the foundation for 
instituting the two new offices and group
ing the colleges in the aforementioned way.
Don Luce Speaks At UACM
continued from page 1 
originals.
Peter Woodrow and Don Luce have 
formed a group in the U.S. that will con
cern itself with the fate of these political 
prisoners and pressure the U.S. government 
to take more than a passing interest in 
these victims of the war.
Prayers were said for all the victims of 
the war. Poems of U.S. and Vietnamese 
origin were recited, and peace songs were 
sung. Literature concerning the Vietnam 
conflict was available. Slides were shown 
alternating between pleasant scenes of the 
U.S. and scenes of suffering in Vietnam. It 
was an effective presentation for a somber 
gathering.
PREGNANT? - Need Help
ADOPTION SERVICES, PREGNANCY TESTING, ETC. . . . 
NATIONAL FAMILY PLANNING COUNCIL, LTD.
CaH: (215) 457-4139 Philadelphia, Pa.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, January 23, 1973Page 11
Student Activities 
Get More Office Space
by Thomas Lartg
StucKit activities now have more office 
space m the basement of Skibo. Room 10, 
formerly the Placements Office, is a suite 
of offices which will provide the much 
needed office of desk space for the many 
student organizations.
The new student activities center 
includes a conference room, a lounge 
which is available to all students and about 
twelve offices. Additionally, there are 
desks and tables available and a huge center 
area which can accomodate those organi
zations which need to expand their 
operations for a short period of time, such 
as the Carnegie Technical, the Spring 
Carnival Committee and Two Hands. A 
machine room containing copy machines 
and other office machinary will also be 
furnished and will be available for use by 
any student. In addition, there is the 
possibility that the administration will pro
vide secretarial help for the student organi
zations now that they are centralized.
The Bureau of Placements is presently 
located in the basement of Warner Hall. 
The idea to re-locate Placements has been 
contemplated by the administration since 
the opening of Science Hall last year. At 
that time the movement of different 
departments into the new building resulted 
in a good deal of vacant space elsewhere. 
However, the amount of space required by 
the Placements Office could only be 
provided in inconvenient and out-of-theway locations. Since Placements needed a 
location that was easy to get to and there 
existed no real pressure to move them, 
they remained in Skibo.
Last year, however, recognizing the 
need for additional student activity space,
the Student Senate presented a motion to 
get the Placements Bureau out of Skibo. 
Leslie Bram of the Student Senate met 
with Dr. Cyert over the summer to present 
the suggestion. According to Ms. Bram, he 
thought that the move was a very good 
idea and promised to do all that he could 
to get the space for the students. In the 
fall, however, President Cyert suggested 
that the student organizations use the 
space available in the basement of Warner 
Hall. Student Government rejected the 
offer on the basis that the student activities 
should operate out of the student union. 
Eventually, Placements agreed to move and 
the students got the space.
The basic philosophy behind the use of 
the new office along with the existing 
space in the basement of Skibo is the hope 
of unifying the student organizations and 
encouraging better communication and 
interaction among them.
The cost of the relocation of space was 
approximately S40,000, which was made 
available through alumni donations strictly 
specified for the improvement of Skibo. 
This sum covered the renovation in Warner 
Hall and in the new Student Activities Cen
ter, and improvement of other rooms in 
the basement of Skibo.
Sixteen organizations were affected by 
the addition of the space. About one half 
of these groups had no office space prior to 
this. Every request for space was answered. 
Nevertheless, the offices are not assigned 
on a permanent basis. Each semester, the 
Student Activities Office will evaluate each 
of the groups using space in Skibo. If the 
space is not being utilized effectively by a 
student oreanization, it will be re-assigned.
ERFORMmm
AN OPERA FILM CLASSIC 
The Salzburg Festival Production 
of Mozart's
Wednesday, January 31 
1:00 and 8:00 PM 
Heinz Hall*
With Metropolitan Opera star 
Cesare Siepi as Don Giovanni,
Lisa Della Casa, Elisabeth Grummer, 
Otto Edelmann, Anton Dermota, 
Erna Berger, Walter Berry and 
Deszo Ernster. The Vienna Philhar
monic Orchestra is conducted by 
Wilhelm Furtwngler.
Matinee: $2.50 
Evening: $3.00
at Heinz Hall Box Office 
Gimbels, Horne's, 
Kaufmann's and 
National Record Marts.
50c discount to students 
at Heinz Hall Box Office.
SPORTS
Hockey
Tartans Trounce 
Penn State
Basketball
C-Mj Falls 
toW&J
by David Girdany
On Sunday night, January 14, at the 
Alpine slush arena, the CMU hockey team 
had little trouble defeating Penn State-McKeesport by a score of 9 to 1. Jim 
Powers led the scoring with a hot trick. 
Mike Kenworthy and Jeff Jacobs each 
scored two goals.
The Tartans basic trouble this season 
has been getting off to a slow start and 
Sundays game was no exception. CMU was 
unable to score in the first period and went 
to the locker room with a scoreless tie.
The second period was different 
however. The Penn State players were 
charged with many penalties and the Tar
tans finally took advantage of them. Joe 
Molnar, after receiving the puck in the neu
tral zone, carried it over the Penn State 
blue line, past two or three slowly reacting 
Penn State players on the goalies right 
side, and finally skated directly in front of 
the goal, flipping a backhand shot into the 
net. Johnny Hauser scored soon thereafter, 
making the first two goals power play 
goals. Penn State did not score until the 
third period, after the score was 5 to 0.
There were several highlights in the 
game and one of the most noteworthy 
involved Kenworthy. Skating in alone on 
the Penn State goalie, Mike was tripped 
from behind and slid into the goalie, 
whereupon the goalie and Mike started 
fighting. Mike received a two minute pen
alty but he was also given a penalty shot, a 
rare occurrence in hockey, in which the 
player starts with the puck at center ice 
and skates in on the goalie alone, to take a 
shot. Naturally, Mike scored.
Another interesting note; Rich Chassen 
got in a fight for the second Penn State 
game in a row.
CMU Scoring Summary
PERIOD 1: No scoring
PERIOD 2: 1 Molnar (Farman, Hauser) 2 
Hauser (Gallaway, Kenworthy) 3 Jacobs 
(Powers, Leff) 4 Jacobs (Molnar) 5 Ken
worthy (unassisted)
PERIOD 3: 6 Powers (Bauer, Molnar) 7 
Kenworthy (penalty shot) 8 Powers (Mo
lnar) 9 Powers (Jacobs, Leff)
by Roger Geddes
Last Saturday night, the CarnegieMellon Tartans again went for that elusive 
first victory of the season, but instead were 
handed their seventh straight defeat, 74-48, 
by Washington and Jefferson College.
The outcome of the game was never in 
much doubt as the W & J Prexies complete
ly dominated the first half. In that half, the 
Prexies allowed the Tartans only 10 points, 
a total of 4 field goals and 2 foul shots. 
First half statistics show that CMU shot for 
only 14% while W & J hit for 45% and 36 
points.
The second half saw a practically new 
Tartan team take the floor and battle the 
Prexies to an even match, but that first 
half margin was too large to overcome. 
Leading scorer for CMU was freshman for
ward Ralph Dominick with 21 points.
Last week two games and two practices 
had to be cancelled because of the flu, 
which hit almost ever player on the team. 
In their last loss to Bethany, two starters, 
Mark Donato and Ralph Dominick had to 
leave the game in the first half because of 
high fevers. Two other players, Mike Wege
ner and Chuck Mrdjenovich also were sick 
but continued to play the entire game. 
Through most of that game, CMU played 
with only one man on their bench. Mark 
Donato, still out with the flu, has been 
replaced in the lineup by the newest addi
tion to the team, freshman Tom Kuhar.
This Wednesday the Plaid will face stiff 
competition at St. Vincent, and the 
weekend will feature back-to-back home 
games. C-MU plays Thiel Friday night and 
meets Allegheny on Saturday.
ABORTION
INFORMATION 
ABORTION GUIDANCE
An Abortion can be arranged thin 24 
hours and you can fttum home the same dev you leave*
CALL TOLL FREE
(800)523-4436
A Non-Prom Organisation 
open 7 days a week
Tlw Activities lourd Presents...
The Garden of the Finzi-Continis
JAN. 26
7:00 and 9:00 Doherty Hall-2210 
50C with AB Card
 HEINZ HALL FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS HEINZ HALL FOR THE PERFO

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12THE TARTAN-Tuesday, January 23, 1973
Announcements!
THE CRUMBLING WALL, a coffee house,
located at 4515 Forbes Avenue, Oakland, 
Pittsburgh, is open Friday nights, 9:00 
p.m. until 1:00 a.m. Program for Friday, 
January 26 features: A Reading, by two 
Pittsburgh Poets. The coffee house is open 
to all university people.
Gladys Stein will make her Pittsburgh
debut for the Y-l KC Music Society concert 
on Wednesday, January 31, at 8:15 p.m. 
She will perform in the Y-IKC's Morris 
Kaufman Auditorium at 315 S. Beliefield 
Avenue in Oakland. All series subscribers 
be admitted free, and remaining seats will 
be sold for $1.00.
Senior Fulbright-Hays Appointments for
1973-74 still available. The preliminary re
view of applications for Senior FulbrightHays awards for all or part of the aca
demic year 1973-74 has revealed a need for 
additional candidates for a number of 
appointments. The openings are listed in 
the office of the Fulbright advisor, Dean 
Milligan, 207 Warner Hall. Basic ElegibiIity 
requirements are: 1) U.S. citizenship; 2) 
For lecturing, college or university teaching 
experience and when indicated, foreign 
language competence; 3) For research, a 
doctoral degree or, in some fields, a recog
nized professional standing as demon
strated by faculty rank, publications, 
etc.
If you find classical music a drag, it just
may be the people who have presented it 
to you, such as your junior high music 
teacher, who made you memorize the 
stages of deterioration in Beethoven's hear
ing, or all those stuffy classics DJ's. Bob 
King is a new sort of classics announcer. 
Each Sunday, from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m., 
WRCT presents Bob King and "The  
Classics Show." Believe it or not its good 
head music.
The Student Gallery Show "Senior Pprom"
opens January 22 and runs through Feb
ruary 4. The show will be exhibiting the 
work of Maryellen Podgorski, Reubin 
Pfeffer, Ruthie Rosenfeld, Janice Olsen, 
and Andy Meyer.
On Thursday, January 25, at 8 p.m. in the
Pitt Cathedral, William Hinton, author of 
"Fanfhen" is speaking on the cultural 
revolution in China. There will also be a 
film called "Report from China". Free and 
open to the public.
There will be a general meeting of the
Activities Board to recruit new members 
on Wednesday, January 24th at 4:30 p.m. 
in Room 12 Skibo. All those interested are 
urged to attend.
In keeping with its purpose of presenting
early music performed on instruments of 
the period, the Renaissance and Baroque 
Society features a little-known instrument, 
the vihuela, on January 27th in the second 
concert of its present series. This concert 
will take place in Kresge Auditorium, 
located in the Grace Library at Carlow 
College at 8:30 p.m. Tickets are available 
at the door. The vihuela, the Spanish pre
decessor of the guitar, will be played by 
Frederic Hand, a brilliant young musician 
from New York. The program will include 
Spanish songs and instrumental pieces of 
the Renaissance, and Baroque music for 
solo guitar.
The Activities Board and the Men's Dorm
Council will present "The Prisoner" 
episode number 1 "The Arrival on 
Tuesday in Donner Hall, and Wednesday 
and Sunday in Skibo. Showing times will 
be at 8,9, and 10:00 p.m. The AB-MDC 
Videotape program will continue through^ 
out the semester all programs are free.
Exhibition of drawings and prints by Kathi
Kermes through February 2. Admissions 
Office, Warner Hall:
There will be a meeting of the campus
programming fund Monday, January 29 at 
7:00 p.m. in Room 12 Skibo. All organi
zations seeking financial assistance for 
programs in Spring 1973 must 
attend.
Senior Trumpet Recital: Richard Purcell.
Piano Accompaniment: Frank Johnson. 
Sunday, January 28, 1973, 8:30 p.m., Ex
hibition Hall, Fine Arts. Works included by 
Baroque Composers Jacchini and Perti; 
modern composers Halsey Stevens and 
Joseph Kaminski. Also included will be a 
second premiere performance of Frank 
Johnson's "Piece for Fleugelhorn and 
Piano".
ISRAELI DANCING
B nai B rith HillelJewish University Center
Wednesdays 7:3Q p.m.-Sp.m. 
Y-IKC2nd floor Lobby_____________WlJeWeM *ve.
MEN'S DORM COUNCIL OF CMU 
PRESENTS
'AN EVENING OF HYPNOTISM'
starring Richard Hazley 
followed by . . . 
"WINTER MIXER"
featuring Morning Glory 
Friday, January 26th, 1973 
in Skibo Ballroom
February Mixer
featuring
DAZE
Friday, the 2nd, 1973 
in Donner Hall Lounge
9 pm to 12:30 am 
FREE
There will be a meeting on Monday,
January 22 at 4:45 PM in Donner Hall for 
all men interested in the track team.
"THE ROCK YEARS: 1962-1972." Every
Saturday from 12 to 2 p.m. on WRCT 
(900AM). Each week, host Marius Misiunas 
will study the most memorable, popular 
songs of one year, culminating in a study 
of the "top" songs of all time on April 14. 
Next Saturday: The Music of 1963.
The Country Dance Society of Pittsburgh
offers instruction in traditional English 
dances. The group meets in Room 524 of 
the University of Pittsburgh Student 
Union, Fifth Avenue at Bigelow Boulevard, 
from 7 to 9 p.m. on the first, third, and 
fourth Sundays of the month. On the 
second Sunday of each month there is 
dancing in the afternoon at Point Park 
College, Wood Street, Pittsburgh, at 2:30 
p.m. Newcomers are welcome.Contact 
William Beck, 421-5062.
Classified Ads
Male, preferably grad student wanted to
share large 2 bedroom apartment, Shady & 
Walnut. Ample parking, mostly furnished. 
$75/mo includes utilities. Contact Ray 
Artz Science Hall 7110, ext. 298 or 
361-2923.
LostMan's gold wedding band and Eagle
Scout locket, Oakland Library side street. 
Beloved to wife of deceased husband. Re
ward. 462-5399.
REWARD OFFERED for return of large
Dietsgen slide rule lost in Porter last sem
ester. Call 621-3834 after 9:00 p.m.
Russia for sale! Educational Holiday - 4
days Moscow3 days Leningrad. First class 
with bath, all meals, sightseeing, and trans
fers, including Ballet or Circus each city. 
$399, plus 10% for visas, taxes and service.
Departure date March 24, 1973. Call Ms. 
Zhivago at 391-4499 or write Scandinavian 
Airlines, 2 Penn Center, Philadelphia, Pa. 
19102.
Instructions - Dancing - Group Instructions
at Y-IKC, everyone invited. Ballroom, 
latin, discotheque. "Have fun learning 
latest dances." Enroll now. Steve Bayer 
621-6500.
New records, cassettes and 8 tracks:
records $2.50 each or order 5 for $11 from 
catalogue. Cassettes and 8 tracks are 3 for 
$10 at hand. Order any amount or choose 
from the selection. Contact Gary 
Bronheim, 309E Morewood Gardens, 
682-7025.
Ride needed to Boston beginning of
February. Willing to split gas and driving. 
Call 327-4840.
Draft Counseling provided by Attorney
without charge. Sponsored by B'nai B'rith 
Hillel Foundation, 315 S. Belief ield, 3rd 
floor. Every Tuesday evening 7 to 8:30 
p.m. 621-8875
Wanted - Lionel 0.027, Super 0 and
standard gauge trains. Call 335-7922 after 
7 p.m.
Typist needed immediately for linguistics
thesis. Call Helen at 422-7068.
RU6S
for Pol
wMi yovr ID Cord
1000 9x12 Rugs S15 S19 S29 549
db faK 1*1K 11>1H 
 WMOUSAU FWHm** 
MMOOMS, UVIMGffOOMSt CTC 
AVAILABLE AT NEAttY SHOWROOMS
CHASES
HU WALMifT fTMKT, SKADVMM
Of04 DAILY 10 to 9 p.<m. 
(Saturday 10 .m. to 5 pjk)
. Cm S1-1CSS
REGAL NOTES
UNDERSTAND PLAYS, NOVELS AND POEMS 
FASTER WITH OUR NOTES
Wi'r* new and were the bigest! Thousands of 
topics reviewed for quicker understanding. Our 
subjacts include not only English, but Anthro
pology, Art, Black Studies, Ecology, Eco
nomics, Education, History, Law, Music, 
Philosophy, Political Science, Psychology, 
Religion, Science, Sociology and Urban Prob
lems. Send $2 for your catalog of topics avail
able.
REGAL NOTES 
3160 O Street, N.W. 
Washington, D. C. 20007 
Telephone: 202-333-0201
Campus Camera Headquarters 
FOR ALL YOUR 
PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS
Film
Processing  Equipment
CAMERA EXCHANGE
Student Discount on Most Items
Two LocatioAs 
OAKLAND3711 Forbes Avenue 
SHADYSIDE5432 Walnut Street
Phone: 683-2181 
Phone: 683*8900
