FA CUI TY MA Y SHRINK
C-MU In The Black Last Year, Says Cyert
by Tom Kendig
President Richard M. Cyert delivered his 
traditional state of the university address 
to the Faculty Senate last Monday in Skibo 
ballroom. Dividing his report into two 
parts, Dr. Cyert first discussed the financial 
performance of the university during the 
preceding year and concluded with a state
ment on the academic status of the univer
sity.
Operating in the black for the first time 
since 1969r Cyert reported a $154 
thousand budget surplus for 1972-73. As 
compared with the 1971-72 budget deficit 
of $1491 thousand, the new figures reveal 
a significant change towards an overall 
balanced budget. CMU obtains 25% of its 
income from Tuition and fees deriving the 
remaining operating expenses from En
dowment & Gifts (28%), Sponsored Re
search (34%), and investment income (1%). 
This years large income increase came from 
an increase in endowment and sponsored 
research.
This years budget saw a significant cut
President mchard M. Cyert. 
Stein
Photo by Frank
in the universitys investment income. As 
opposed to an annual 10-12% yield of 
stock market investments, the last budget 
showed only a 1.5% income. This figure 
becomes even more significant when com
pared with the 6% interest the moneyLee Greg, New Psych Head, Sees Few Changes
by Debbie Siegel
Dr. Lee Gregg has been named head of 
the psychology department, replacing Dr. 
Garlen Forehand, who plans to do research 
work for the Educational Testing Service
Dr. Gregg, new psychology department head.
Photo by John Rose
of Princeton, New Jersey. Dr. Gregg has 
been at Carnegie-Mellon for the past 20 
years in the capacity of teacher and
lari tartan
researcher. He received his PhD from the 
University of Wisconsin.
Dr. Gregg said he sees no need to change 
the departments basic philosophy. Dr. 
Gregg referred to the old Carnegie Plan, It 
simply said train people to become good 
problem solvers . . . weve been doing that 
for twenty years and I dont see any point 
in not continuing it. He pointed out that 
if people have the proper tools to solve 
problems they should be able to succeed in 
a profession. Whatever our definition of 
the discipline is, we want our students to 
become top flight practitioners, pro
fessionals in that domain, he said.
Dr. Gregg outlines his general plans for 
the departments teaching: We can
increase the size of our general courses and 
then funnel the students down into the 
more specialized courses. The intent of the 
first course, a survey course ... is to be a 
continued on page 11
could have made in a commercial bank.
Operating with a S4.5 million deficit 
over the past three years and with an ad
ditional S8 million taken out of the endow
ment to pay for Science Hall, the-Univer
sity must work to repay this money. If we 
continue to work together as we have in 
the past year, I am confident wc shall 
achieve our objective, commented Cyert.
Carnegie -Mellon Action project 
(C-MAP) overran its budjet because some 
xpected outside money did not materialze by $26 thousand (a 25.7% variance). 
The Computer Center, Cyert Reported, 
saved approximately $100,000 by giving 
up a special computer for administrative 
systems.
Dr. Cyert also mentioned that student 
aid is about one fifth of the tuition re
venue. This means we net about four-fifths 
or $2000 per each full time equivalent stu
dent.
During the academic situation discus
sion of his speech. Dr. Cyert reaffirmed his 
belief to keep the size and high quality 
of CMU constant. He also repetedly 
expressed his belief that it is vital for the 
survival of this university that the under
graduate education at CMU be excellent. 
The education that we give undergraduates 
must be of the quality that justifies the 
tuition gap between ourselves and public 
institutions.
Reporting on the space problem of the 
College of Fine Arts, Dr. Cyert informed 
continued on page 11
October 2, 1973 Volume 74 Number 3
Dorm Refunds 
Announced
by Chris Kiskaddon
The C-MU housing office has announced 
that refunds will be paid to approximately 
300 students who were either placed in 
temporary quarters at the beginning of the 
semester or forced to share their rooms 
with temporarily assigned students.
Students who temporarily lived in 
fraternities will get a S40 refund. Students 
who temporarily lived as fourth roommate: 
in rooms designed for three or as third 
roommates in rooms designed for two will 
get a $20 refund.
Students who were forced to share their 
rooms with temporarily assigned room
mates will also get refunds. If the room was 
designed for two persons, each of the 
permanent residents will get back I/3 of 
the daily charge for each day the room was 
overcrowded. If the room was designed for 
three, the permanent residents will get 
back FA of the daily charge for each day of 
overcrowding. Housing defines the daily 
charge a? the total charge divided by 110 
days.
Roommates who decide to stay together 
and accept overcrowding for the entire 
semester will pay lower rates fer th :ntre
continued on page 11
Pittle Named Official, 
Consumer's Friend
by Lois Wholey
On September 17, the U.S. Senate voted 
without opposition to name C-MU pro
fessor David Pittle to the Consumer 
Product Safety Commission. The five
member commission has the power to ban 
dangerous products from the market with
only 24 hours notice.
Pittle, an assistant professor of electrical 
engineering and public affairs, taught 
Hazardous Products Analysis, a lab 
course in which students tested toys, 
appliances, and other consumer goods for 
hazards and design tlaws. Three years ago
UNCLE IQES GIFT TO C-MU: METERS
City Down On Commuters
by Rob Simbeck
The latest addition to C-MUs parking 
headaches will arrive soon in the form of a 
long line of factory-fresh city parking 
meters along Frew and Tech Streets. The 
headache is not a side effect. In fact, its 
just what the city wants. According to 
Joseph Cosetti, City Treasurer and the man 
in charge of local parking operations, the 
fact that our commuters and employees 
arrive on these streets early in the morning 
and tie up the spaces for an eight-hour 
work day or a full day of classes is an 
improper use of on-street parking.
He sees it this way: On-street parking 
is designed for short visits. In this case, 
tha means one or two classes or a library 
visit. Full-time commuters and workers 
ought to use public transportation, which 
in this case means PATs fine fleet of buses. 
Were not very sympathetic to people 
who want to take their cars to work. The 
city doesnt owe anybody a place on the 
street. Cosetti cited two primary reasons
for the citys attitude toward commuters: 
1) Oakland is heavily congested with 
traffic, especially during the day, but also 
during night-time social and cultural
Sample meter supplied by C-MU Security. Photo 
by Brian Smith
events. 2) Most of the people who come 
into Oakland to work or attend classes 
come from areas with access to public 
transportation. Encouraging them to leave 
their cars at home through the deliberate 
use of parking meters would supposedly 
alleviate the problem.
Could Have Been Worse
Now, if that leaves those of you who 
commute to work or classes shaking your 
heads, consider three things that could 
have happened, but didnt:
1. Within the last year, according to 
Cosetti, the city considered doing away 
with most of Oaklands on-street 
parking (Forbes and Fifth Avenues were 
prime targets). An uproar from area 
business men killed that idea.
2. The citys first proposal to C-MU was 
that Margaret Morrison, Frew and Tech 
Streets all be filled with two and four 
hour meters (picture residents of the
continued on page 6
Dr. Pittle, along with a variety of hazardous 
products. Photo by Bruce Edelston
he was instrumental in forming the Pitts
burgh Alliance for Consumer Protection. 
He explains: I was tired of seeing people 
get ripped off. Under his direction the 
Alliance has flourished from a handful ot 
people to a membership of 1600 families.
continued on page 6

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 2, 1973
EDITORS NOTE
Speaking of brick walls.
Last week a very eloquent commentary by Chris Infante appeared on 
the News Comment page. The subject was the language requirement in 
H&SS and the brick wall that faces anyone who tries to change it. It was a 
good commentary because it not only exposed some of the inconsistencies 
of the requirement, but it effectively portrayed the brick wall, which is 
the attitude of the person who has the final say. Dean Steinberg.
The TARTAN has had a long and glorious disagreement with Dean 
Steinberg about almost everything. And especially about the way the 
"experimentar college, H&SS, has turned out. This long standing 
disagreement has included editorial wisecracks, personal attacks, a lot of 
bad-mouthing behind his back, and even a poignant plea for his immediate 
resignation. This disagreement has been unfortunate. / would like to see it 
end soon.
But / think its worth mentioning that since last January every 
TARTAN reporter that has gone to see Dean Steinberg with an open mind 
has left feeling frustrated and infuriated.
Now I can see in my minds eye Dean Steinberg wincing and saying, 
"What can / do? What have / done to deserve this latest attack? / dont 
doubt that Dean Steinberg does what he thinks is best for the students. / 
dont doubt his sincerity. / also dont want to antagonize him, since / may 
want to work with him in the future. But here is my suggestion:
Listen.
Instead of being so defensive about other opinions, listen. Instead of 
immediately adopting a negative attitude, adopt a positive attitude and see 
if that works. Consider, instead counterattacking. These are all 
generalities. But there is a good specific example of what / am talking 
about. President Cyert listens. The key is that there is more to listening 
than just using your ears.
When Chris Infante went to see Dean Steinberg to get background for 
her commentary, it seems that he was using very little more than his ears.
/ know hes been through this whole argument before, but it seems that 
the heart of the problem wasnt discussed.
There shouldn t be any question about the fact that when people are 
forced against their will to do the kind of intense labor that is often 
necessary to fulfill the language requirement, it is a bad situation. It is a 
perversion of the educational system. It leads to great discontent, 
frustration and anger. And something ought to be done one way or the 
other about it.
The real problem: cut back the language requirement to something 
more reasonable, and you virtually eliminate the language department. At 
the least, you would cause a major cutback in the number of modern 
languages faculty, which is not that large to begin with. This is the real 
reason for the rigorousness of the language requirement, and this is also 
the reason why the dosing statement by Steinberg in last weeks 
commentary is loaded.
He said, "If / saw that three-fourths of the H&SS faculty dont 
approve of it, / would certainly go to the council... to consider it.  Well, 
of course the faculty is not going to approve a change in the language 
requirement. Their col legues would lose their jobs, and H&SS, which is 
already in a fearful position in this University, would be threatened 
further.
But the sad, indisputable truth is that if this requirement is whats 
holding the modern languages department together, then it probably 
shouldnt be held together. This maybe brutal and insensitive but / cant 
see making students suffer to keep a department alive. Every department 
ought to be able to stand on its own two feet, even if it is run by friendly 
and wonderful people.
There is an article in this weeks TARTAN about the modern languages 
department. It has a very different slant than this editorial. But it does 
enumerate some of the things the department is doing to make itself more 
attractive. These are the kinds of things that should be done to keep it 
alive.
Everyone should take a semester of a language. But requiring a certain 
proficiency can be cruel and unusual punishment. And a lousy way to run 
a university. Digest this argument, Dean Steinberg. Convince us that the 
present requirement isnt as unreasonable as requiring a certain level of 
proficiency in math and science. Listen. And either convince us or help us 
do something about it.
Stephen Saunders
ATTENTION: Graphic Design students, faculty and others
endowed with creativityhelp! We want to 
improve the TARTAN visually . Contact 
Christine Infante, Administrative Editor.
Editors, there will be a meeting again this 
Wednesday at 5:30.
The deadline for all announcements will be 
Wednesday at noon. Anything received after 
that time will not be printed.
Letters:
Original letter appeared in Pittsburgh Post 
Gazette. Reprinted by permission.
In reply to your Sept. 8 editorial on 
Carnegie-Mellon Universitys rehabilitation 
center for women convicts proposed for 
Shadyside:
I agree with you that it is tragic that an 
area like this, populated by reasonable en
lightened citizens, could not have been 
used for such a forward looking experi
ment.
Your editorial implies, however, that 
the project was rejected by the ShadysideMorewood citizens, and this is simply not 
true. While there is a citizens association, 
the members were not consulted in the 
decision by C-MU to give up this excellent 
plan. Neither was any house-to-house 
canvass made.
I can only conclude, therefore, that 
pressure to back down was put on C-MU 
by a very few extremely wealthy citizens 
of the area, and that they hit the university 
trustees where it allegedly hurts most: the 
pocketbook.
I sympathize with the C-MU dilemma 
those who are dependent on the rich for 
survival (or think they are) have always had 
problems with issues of a moral nature.
But as a 10-year Shadyside resident who 
has brought up a family here, I deeply 
resent the idea that my neighborhood 
cannot be used to its fullest capacity 
because of a very few ultra conservative, 
irrationally frightened people.
I am sorry that C-MU did not choose to 
pursue the matter any further to determine 
the wishes of the Shadyside-Morewood 
citizenry. I urge them to re-open their
re-zoning request and let the neighborhood 
speak for itself.
Mrs. Sally Minard 
Pittsburgh
Editor:
We have all noticed that there is serious 
dispute respecting organization of farm 
workers who pick table grapes and head 
lettuce in California. Involved are the mi
grant workers, the employers, the United 
Farm Workers, the AFL-CIO, and the West
ern Conference of Teamsters.
This is written to suggest that many 
individuals will wish to become informed 
about the relative rights and interests invol
ved in this struggle.
There has been violence, and two UFW 
strikers have been killed.
It is alleged that the Teamsters are woocontinued on page 7tartan
Administrative Editor
Christine Infante
Editor in Chief
Steve Saunders
Managing Editor
Gary Singer
News Editor..........................Steve Correll
Features Editor . . . .Shelley Burhans
Head Reporter....................Debbie Siegel
News and Features Staff.............................
Marcia Abernathy, Michael Baum 
Bill Bromley, Gary Bronheim 
Steve Calhoun, Sandy Como 
John Craun, Sharon Curcio 
Thomas Kendig, Chris Kiskaddon 
Tom Lang, Amy Reitmeyer 
James Russell, Barbara Shumovich 
Rob Simbeck, Kate Stainton 
Kevin Turcotte, Lois Wholey 
Chip Yeager
Photography Editors . . . Elliot Arons
Ed Levine
Photography Staff . . . Bruce Edelston 
Ellen Eddy, Chris Forland 
Nick Lardas, Elliot Popowitz 
Rod Reilly, John R. Rose 
Frederick A. Shamlian, John Shettel 
Bryan Smith, Frank Stein
Entertainment Editor
Business Manager
Dywane Smalls
. . . . Sue Klein
Entertainment Staff . . Terry Cay wood 
Nonie Dempsey, Arnie Karr 
Stacey Robin Kimbell, Hank Levy 
Sharon Neustein, Steve Perkins 
Cyndy Schmidt, Doug Stone
Sports Editor .................Jeff Englund
Sports Staff....................Glenn Campbell
Ker. Kloes, Leslie Allen 
Mary Chabala, Jim Litsas 
Mika Pochan, Mark Schiffman
Business Staff.Lester Nathan
Layout Staff ..... Arlene Berkowitz
Louise LoPinto
Codv Staff ...............................Mina Gerall
Sandy Preuhs, Cyndy Schmidt
Cartoonist...............................Ron Wiggins
The Editorial Board of the TARTAN reserves the right to edit or withhold any copy 
that it considers unfit for publication. Published every Tuesday during the academic 
year by the student government corporation of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania 15213. Deadlines are 12 noon for announcements, classified ads and 
letters to the editor and 5:00 p.m. for articles and display ads on the Wednesday 
preceding the Tuesday of publication. Editorial and Business offices are located in 
Skibo 50. Telephone (412) 682-4557 or campus extension 656.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, Octxjfeer^2, 9V3-^-Page 3
MEWS COMMENT
The Nine Hour Wonder
Carnegie-Mellon University has adopted the method of stating in 
units the quantity of work required of students. For the average student 
one unit represents one work-hour of time per week throughout the 
semester. The number of units in each subject is fixed by the faculty of 
each college. 
This is the official Undergraduate Catalog rationale explaining 
C-MUs unique unit system as opposed to the credit system adopted by 
most institutes of higher learning. The basic difference between the credit 
and unit (1 credit = 3 units) is that the unit system attempts to indicate 
the amount of both class time and preparation required of each student.
The colleges of Mellon Institute of Science and Carnegie Institute of 
Technology offer 9 units for most of their undergraduate courses. This 
would indicate, according to the definition, that each average student is 
required to do nine hours of work per course per week or a total of 36 
hours of work for the four C/T-M/S technical electives required of each 
student. This reduces to seven hours a day academically oriented, whether 
in class or at home.
09-131 has 10 hours a week class time and requires at least 2 hours 
more in preparation. Students successfully completing this course receive 
9 units. 15-100 is famous for causing its students long hard nights in the 
computer center, sometimes resulting in 9 hours work in one night. 
Students successfully completing this course receive 9 units. 18-100 
requires 2 hours of class time, 3 hours of lab time, and endless time 
preparing for these five hours of total class time. Students successfully 
completing this course receive 9 units.
Students taking 79-102, The Shaping of Western Civilization, are 
scheduled for 4 hours of classes. This course usually requires approx
imately 2-3 hours a week preparation. Students successfully completing 
this course receive 12 units. Almost any course in the college of Human
ities and Social Science grants 12 units for a passing grade in that course.
/ am not proposing that H&SS courses are overrated and giving too 
much credit but, rather, that / have yet to find the average student in 
MIS who can finish a 10 hour a week classtime course in 9 hours. If the 
university is determined to keep the unit system alive the system must be 
accurate. If it remains as it is at this time, we can all stop pretending: the 
average  student just doesnt exist at Carnegie-Mellon.
Gary Singer 
Managing Editor
POLITICAL COMMENTARY: AG NEW!
Since August Vice President Spiro T. 
Agnew has been dominating the news re
lating to political corruption. My opinion is 
that much of this interest has been mis
placed. Many newsmen not fully informed 
claim that Agnew was paid off by Mary
land engineering firms and will be indicted. 
The press is expounding many rumors to 
the effect that he is about to resign. This 
word from a moderately informed source: 
Neither will Agnew be indicted nor will he 
resign. Perhaps some evidence is needed to 
support these claims.
Spiro Agnew has, indeed, received 
the publicity on the Agnew case have been 
attributed to the Nixon Administration by 
other rumors. These rumors claim that Nix
on has two objects in mind by the publici
ty: the first is to remove the attention 
from the Watergate scandal and the second,
to remove Agnew from his prominenet po
litical position.
It is my opinion that the only reason 
Agnew has been dragged into the Maryland 
political scandal is that all politicians in the 
Free State who had any dealings with 
consulting firms were being investigated. 
That was due to the fact that it appeared 
that all politicians insisted on kickbacks 
from consulting firms after a contract was 
awarded to a firm. However, some sources 
hold that Agnew himself did not conform 
to this practice.
new investigation is that if (and quite possi
bly when) Agnew is cleared of all charges, 
his political position will not only be re
stored, but strengthened. Even though Spi
ro T. Agnew is more honest than most 
politicians and unquestionably smarter, he 
would be a tragedy as president for he does 
not always think fully of the consequences 
of his actions.money from Allan I. Green, the president 
of Green Associates, consulting engineers 
in Baltimore, Sewickley, Orlando, Boston, 
and elsewhere. The only important fact 
about the receipt of this money is that 
Agnew received it from Allan Green and 
not Green Associates. Therefore whether 
these payments be kickbacks or campaign 
contributions, they can be called campaign 
contributions. This means that Agnew can
not be indicted on receipt of the Green 
money. We must remember that even poli
ticians are innocent until proven guilty. On 
the question of resigning, anyone who has 
studied Agnew at all realizes that he is not 
the type to resign under any sort of pres
sure. He could quite easily be one of the 
most intelligent of the hard-headed 
politicians.
In fact, many of the rumors relating to 
to remove Agnew trom his prominem
political position.
G. Bias
Employee of Green Associates
Exasperation? Frustration?
Sure, we all know the feeling.
Grit your teeth and bear it! Throw up your arms in a huff.
Scream! Rationalize.
.We all have our own way of coping with the feeling.
Maybe on a rainy afternoon you can explore and try to understand 
it. On this last rainy Saturday afternoon / did... it didn t help.
First of all, it has never been my belief that a modern language is not 
valuable. Retake: The contention of my last commentary was not that a 
modern language has no value. The benefits, as tourists know of fluency in 
a language cannot be disputed. No matter, one response summarized it 
best by checking two blocks and inserting one word: A M.L. is valuable 
but not necessary therefore a M.L. should be optional.
Of the 30 responses turned into the office thus far, three indicated 
that a modern language was necessary and one faculty member, Arnold 
Bank, owned up to it by signing in "beautiful writing.
Alright so nobodys going to pay attention to 26 paper forms to 
change the language requirement. But / am going to pay attention to the 
fact that only 30 responses came in. Things really couldnt be much 
simpler: check a box, tear it out, and drop it in the mail-in English no 
less.
Some things can be beaten into the ground, like the news com
mentary creedwhen in doubt write about apathy! But that has always 
dealt with student apathy and we understand that a) either you dont 
know how to get interested b) you dont have the time c) you dont read 
the TARTAN. What weve always managed to ignore is that the uni
versitys attitudes could very well be formed by not its students but its 
faculty. Naturally it should go both ways.
True, the reasons may be the same but we all know that any one of 
them is pretty flimsy. It gets one to thinking about other possibilities. 
When the faculty know that to get something resolved they have to make 
their feelings known, even to the dean-why dont they?
Fear? of what? of whom?
Unconcern? Then what the hell (excuse me) are you here for if not 
to help us learn? Why not explain to us why were wrong or right; why 
confine that to a classroom? Alright, any faculty might regard my 
commentary as not worth their time, / hope not, but they cant disregard 
that there are a number of us, Dean Steinberg included, who would like to 
have the matter settled./ use last weeks commentary only as a point of reference and 
perhaps a plug so that maybe youll go back and read it if you havent 
already. / think Im onto something far more important than merely my 
disappointment in the results. It doesnt have to be spelled out more than 
it is, apathy refers to faculty, too.
During the first weeks of school a reporter from Associated Press 
interviewed me and stumped me with one question:  What would it take 
to move the students at C-MU? Id like to broaden that to include 
faculty. What indeed would cause us to
get excited. . . impeachment '
be upset. . . four more years
be angry enough to do something about it... (pause)
When students and faculty cant even get interested enough in 
checking a box [xj (a faculty signature would be helpful) a lot of us are 
exasperated and frustrated and banging our heads and biting our nails and 
yelling, What would it take to move YOU on this campus?
Christine Infante 
Administrative Editor
PrePROA* A 
E. LEPER 
MAHONNfcT 
1 bO> 2 . IT READi> :
-7
I DEAR i\AR. RtAR ? 
WHt *S A NOSE. 
UKE A FAlRY >
IP YOU PRlMT Twe AmSWER , I WlUL 
IMVIT6. YOU TO CO* 
TO THE WEX.T VUXER 
AT OUR FRaT.
SoRRV. -PtR Bur i IMOST CUNE i MY *\o*?AL values t 
CANtOQT BE COM PROM ISED T '

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 2, 1973
ANNOUNCEMENTS
As many of you know, the farmworkers
boycott of lettuce and grapes was renewed 
last January when the 3 year contract 
which Cesar Chavez and the farmworkers 
struggled for for five years terminated. The 
growers signed sweetheart contracts with 
Teamsters, who falsely claim to represent 
the farmworkers. The Teamsters, besides 
hiring high school students and children 
and bringing wetbacks from Mexico as 
strike breakers, have imposed a climate of 
violence on the state of California which 
has already resulted in four deaths. The 
renewed struggle puts the 3,000,000 farm
workers in this country back where they 
started-without legal or civil rights, 
working in deplorable conditions with far 
substandard means (food, clothing, etc.) 
The only people who can win them back 
their contracts and rights are the 
consumers by pressuring food stores, 
restaurants and food services, and thus the 
growers. The people who put the food on 
your table need your support. There will 
be a meeting on Wednesday, October 3 in 
Rm. 46 Skibo to form the CMU Support 
Committee for the farmworkers, some of 
whom will be speaking. Also, there will be 
a film shown and farmworkers will be 
speaking in the Hunt Multi-Purpose Room 
at 2:30, Friday October 5th. If you would 
like to meet the farmworkers families and 
organizers who will be in Pittsburgh until 
the victory, there will be a pot-luck dinner 
at their house, 5867 Ellsworth Ave., 
tonight (Tues.) at 6:30 p.m.
National Science Foundation fellowships
will be awarded for study or work leading 
to master's or doctoral degrees in the math
ematical, physical, medical, biological, en
gineering or social sciences, and in the his
tory and philosophy of science. Those eli
gible to apply will be college seniors or 
first-year graduate students this Fall; in 
particular, eligibility is limited to indivi
duals who by Fall 1974 will have com
pleted not more than one year of full-time 
or part-time graduate-level study.
Applicants will be required to take the 
Graduate Record Examinations. The exam
inations, administered by the Educational 
Testing Service, will be given on December 
8, 1973 at designated centers throughout 
the United States and certain foreign 
countries.
The deadline date for the submission of 
applications for NSF Graduate Fellowships 
is November 26, 1973. Further informa
tion and application materials may be ob
tained from the Fellowship Office, 
National Research Council. 2101 
Constitution Ave., Washington, D.C. 
20418.
Attention Brothers and Sisters! Spirit is
sponsoring its annual benefit Fashion 
Show. Male and Female models are needed. 
Also some out of sight MC's are needed. 
Applications are available at Skibo Infor
mation Desk, please return as soon as pos
sible to Spirit, Box Skibo 103, c/o Tanya 
Allmond. There will be a brief organiza
tional meeting Tuesday, October 9th at 
7:30 pm in the Spirit House.
Coffeehouse featuring Rod MacDonald
from New York. Friday October 5 at 9:00 
in the Kiltie Coffeehouse. Sponsored by 
the Activities Board.
Anyone interested in playing on a Lacrosse
team should contact Fred Cohen at
683-0326 Monday-Thursday, 6pm.-8pm. or 
leave a message for him at the Skibo 
information desk.
Bridge Players: A duplicate bridge game
will be held at Delta Upsilon Fraternity, 
5031 Forbes, on Sunday, October 7, at 
1:30 pm. If there is enough interest, a 
novice section will also be run. Refresh
ments will be served. Partnerships will be 
arranged. Call 683-9881 for more 
information.
A Real Opening, Monday, October 8 from
8:00-10:00 pm; at the CMU Gallery, 5200 
Forbes Ave. An evening of dance, mime 
and music amidst an exhibit of paintings 
and drawings by CMU students. Gallery 
hours are 11:30 am.-8:00 pm. Tuesday and 
Thursday; 11:30 am.-5:30 pm. Wednesday, 
Friday, and Saturday.
Free money from A Phi O to people whose
books sold at the exchange. Check the A 
Phi 0 posters for your name and stop by 
room 16 Skibo if it's listed.
CLASSIFIED AOS
Abortions: For free information and
referral, call A.F.P.I.O., a non-profit organ
ization at 202-785-1077.
Lost: Ruby ring. Sentimental value.
Reward. Call 621-4540;
Refined young interesting person wants
another young person (male or female) to 
share a two-bedroom 9th floor apartment 
in Monroeville. 372-5351 or 243-3200 ext. 
122.
Any commuter interested in serving on the
CCCP Executive Board or as CCCP 
President should pick up a petition at j 
Skibo Information Desk. Petitions are due 
October 12.
All Biology students at CMU: There will be
a picnic with the biology faculty and staff 
at Schenley Park athletic shelter on 
October 6th from 2 to 6. Come join the 
fun and meet the members of your depart
ment.
PBSONALS
Dear Anna,
Each time I joke about you,
People start to doubt you.
They claim you're just a game, a fantasy. 
Though Sally Field you're not 
You have revealed you're hot 
You're real as U.S. Steel to me.
Carl
HUMBHm  COMPUTER SCIENCE
UNPRECEDENTED WORK... ONPMULLELED OPPORTUN...
CAREERS AT THE NATIONAL
SECURITY MENCY
MATHEMATICS
The cipher disk, one of 
the worlds oldest crypto
graphic devices, is a crude 
forerunner of the sophisti
cated communications secur
ity systems being developed 
and tested at NSA today."
/>
Because of the nature and scope of the Na
tional Security Agencys mission, we can offer 
job challenge and career opportunities that 
are impossible to match.
AT NSA, we are responsible for designing and 
developing secure/invulnerable communica
tions and EDP systems to transmit, receive 
and analyze much of our nation? most vital 
information. The advancing technologies ap
plied in this work are such that they will fre
quently take you beyond the known and 
accepted boundaries of knowledge. Conse
quently, your imagination and resourcefulness 
are essential qualifications for success.
The Career Scene at NSA: Engineers wilt find 
work which is performed nowhere else . . . 
devices and systems are constantly being de
veloped which are the most advanced in the 
Western World. As an Agency engineer, you 
will carry out research, design, development, 
testing and evaluation of sophisticated, largescale cryptocommunication and EDP systems. 
You may also participate in related studies of 
electromagnetic propagation, upper atmos
phere phenomena, and solid state devices us
ing the latest equipment for advanced research 
within NSAs fully instrumented laboratories.
Mathematicians define, formulate and solve 
complex communications-related problems. 
Statistical mathematics, matrix algebra, and 
combinatorial analysis are but a few of the 
tools applied by Agency mathematicians. Op
portunities for contributions in computer 
sciences and theoretical research are also 
offered.
Computer Scientists participate in systems 
analysis and systems programming related to 
advanced scientific and operational applica
tions. Software design and development is 
included, as well as support in hardware de
sign, development and modification.
Starting salaries are based on education and 
experience, and increase as you assume addi
tional responsibility. Further, you will enjoy 
the varied career benefits and other advan
tages of Federal employment without the 
necessity of Civil Service certification.
Check with your Placement Office for further 
information about NSA, or write to: Chief, 
College Relations Branch, National Security 
Agency, Ft. George G. Meade, Md. 20755, 
Attn: M321. An equal opportunity employer, 
M/F. NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY 
Our representative will be on campus
OCTOBER 15, 1973nsa
. . . WHERE IMAGINATION IS THE 
ESSENTIAL QUALIFICATION

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 2, 1973-Page 5
Performance: Potential For Education
by Debbie Siegel
Last February, a new program was ini
tiated in the drama department to help 
social studies and English teachers for 
grades 7-12 in the public schools learn 
special dramatic techniques which could be 
transferred to their classrooms. The pro
gram has been certified by the state and is 
instructed by Marge Walker of the Drama 
Department who has planned the design of 
the program. In the first meeting this year, 
Mrs. Walker explained how in a perform
ance, the teacher can be more effective in 
realizing what the potential is for commu
nicating with the students. Mrs. Walker 
believes that drama should be a natural 
part of education and that texts are made 
to be played.
The class meets on Tuesdays and Thurs
day afternoons from 4:30 to 6:30 and the 
curriculum will deal with such topics as 
mime. Mrs. Walkers husband, Jewel, a pantomimist who also teaches at CMU, will 
demonstrate some techniques. Another 
topic for a session is the living newspaper, 
which takes a topic from a daily newspaper 
and shows how to act the event out. There 
will be sessions on role playing and playwriting. Teachers will also be given a 
chance to work with video tape. One re
quirement is that the individuals in the
Drama should be a natural part of education.
Photo courtesy of Communication Theater
class wear comfortable clothing for the 
purpose of body movement and learning 
yoga.
The new teacher training program was 
partly an outgrowth of classes during the 
summer. Some drama students from CMU 
participated in teaching skills of the voice
and body as public school teachers were 
apprenticed to them.
An interesting aspect of the program 
involves demonstrations with puppets 
which can be^ a viable medium to teach 
language. The child learns to associate 
sounds and phrases with the puppet figure. 
Often, messages students try to communi
cate to teachers are ignored. The design of 
this course is to increase the sensitivity of 
the teacher by having him learn how to 
recognize non-verbal signals. Weekend 
workshops for elementary teachers are 
being planned which will deal with the art
of puppetry and masks.
Mrs. Walker has drawn a correlation be
tween the drama departments professional 
attitude and that of GSIA. While in ser
vice programs have been treated very seri
ously by GSIA, the drama department pre
viously took this kind of programs, for 
training people outside CMU, very lightly. 
In SUPA, role playing situations are often 
used to illustrate various techniques and in 
many schools of urban affairs, this is con
sidered as a very practical means to con
veying an understanding of the field. By 
increasing the skills of English and social 
studies teachers in their ability to inspire a 
sociodrama, the classroom can become an 
exciting model for an environment of 
communication.
In regard to the benefit such a program 
has for CMU students, Baker Salsbury, 
assistant head of the drama department has 
commented, We will take a close look at 
the intensity of involovment in this sort of 
thing and we must assess where we are 
going.
As for students interested in techniques 
for the voice, mime, and improvisation 
who are not in Drama, the course in 
Elective Acting is suggested. Possibilities 
for teacher training in drama to combine 
with some of the education programs at 
CMU will take time to develop as this new 
program is only in its early stage. Plans are. 
being made for an advanced course once a 
week to be offered in the spring for those 
who attended the first part of the teacher 
training course. Out of those sections,
 some teachers for the class will be hired.
Individuals need comfortable clothing for body movements and 
learning Yoga.
Photo courtesy of Communication Theater
WANTED
ACTORS FOR 
MOVIE
being made in Pittsburgh. Please send 
resume of acting training or experience to 
Mr. Robert Murphy c/o 17 Unger Lane, 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15217
Mobay Chemical Company
a division of Baychem Corporation Presentsthe Baqcr liens Choir
Direct from West German/
With 160 members and
THE PITTSBURGH 
SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA
Heinz Hall for the Performing Arts 
Monday, October 8 at 8:30 P.M.
This powerful 160-man ensemble will perform works by 
Mozart, Wagner, Verdi, Gounod, and folk songs in the 
rich tradition of German singing societies. Accompa* 
ried by 65 members of the Pittsburgh Symphony Or
chestra, The Bayer Men's Choir will celebrate its 69th 
anniversary with a debut tour of the U.S. and Canada.
Tickets: $5.00, $4.00, $3.00
at the Heinz Hall Box Office, Gimbel's, Horne's. 
Kaufmann's and the Pitt Student Union.
20% discount to students and senior citizens with ID at 
the Heinz Hall Box Office only.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 2, 1973
City Wages War On Parkers
continued from page 1
Hill dorms running to their cars in their 
underwear at 3 a.m. to feed the meters). 
Skillful negotiating on the part of the 
University (and a tender spot in the 
heart of Mr. Cosetti) did away with that 
idea. But, dont hold your breath. 
Cosetti said, There will be no meters, 
at least initially, on Margaret Morrison 
Street. If city surveys show that a 
significant number of non-University 
people are parking on Margaret 
Morrison Street, we may yet see the last 
of our free parking disappear.
3. Cosetti referred to Frew Street, 
which is not an official city street: We 
could block it off and use it as a parking 
lot for city purposes. There is no or
dinance stopping us. But the street 
must be kept open to allow emergency 
vehicles through.
It AH Began at Pitt
The city has been juggling Oakland 
parking for a long time, but the decision to 
bestow meters upon us actually began last
Pittle Goes To 
Washington
continued from page 1
Pittle tests product for current leakage. Photo 
by Bruce Edeoston.
Dr. Pittle comments that the consumer 
movement consists of men and women 
who are tired of'faulty products and want 
satisfaction.
Pittle, a Democrat, was nominated by 
President Nixon. The law required that a 
Democrat be appointed to balance the 
Commissions membership. Asked to ex
plain why he was appointed, Pittle said he 
feels he has the technical knowledge and 
sensitivity required to promote safety 
regulation and still consider the long term 
economic impact on both the system and 
the consumer. While he stresses that in his 
new position he is essentially representing 
the consumer, he says he will strive to 
avoid responding to the emotional con
sumer without first asking whether it is 
feasible to act. He said he believes the 
Commission will succeed in reducing the 
number of accidents caused by hazardous 
products and consumer ignorance. This is 
a chance fo make it happen, he said.
year at Pitt. Pitts problems are even worse 
than ours, if you can handle that. The 
campus streets are lined with two and four 
hour meters, and the area is patrolled by 
three or four meter maids, each of whom 
writes an average of 1100 tickets a month.
Pitts commuters are not pleased with 
this situation. After receiving over 500 
complaints, Pitts General Studies Council 
held a Public Meter Symposium with city 
officials and students. The two main 
commuter complaints were the extreme 
prevalence of two-hour meters in the area, 
and the price discrepancies between 
different meters. The city took two 
actions: 1) They changed a small number 
of two-hour meters to four hours, and they 
raised the lower prices to match the higher 
ones. No more discrepancy.
Somewhere in the Pitt-city dialogue, 
someone mentioned that since Frew Street 
parking was not controlled, Pitt students 
could park there for free while those who 
parked nearer to the University were sub
ject to meters. The city agreed that, yes, 
this was yet another discrepancy. It studied 
the parking situation on Frew Street, and 
subsequently on the other streets on the 
C-MU campus. The resolution of this dis
crepancy will soon line Tech and Frew 
Streets.
The city announced to the university 
that it wanted to help us control parking 
by installing meters. According to Harry 
Rowell, Director of C-MU Operations, the 
university was not pleased with the idea, 
but the city gradually let C-MU know that 
the meters would be coming. The uni
versity offered to maintain those three 
streets, relieving the city of the burden, if 
that would let us decide whether to have 
meters. C-MU pointed out that the city had 
once declined to install street lights on the 
streets, saying they were the universitys, 
and that the city had not paved them 
despite frequent requests, indicating that it 
wasnt concerned with them. The streets 
were suddenly paved.
Finally, the university realized that 
there was no way to stop the city without 
a public battle, but through negotiations 
managed to convice the city not to meter 
Margaret Morrison Street (at least not yet) 
and to install some ten-hour meters on 
Frew Street.
Bandits Vs. Meter Maids
As the meters are being installed, here 
are two points to ponder:
Pitts Commuter Association has begun 
a program called the Commuter Bandits. 
Under the program, the Bandits cruise the 
areas metered streets and stuff expired 
meters with nickels and dimes. They leave 
a note informing the owner of the car that 
they have been spared a ticket, and asking 
that they reimburse the Commuter Club by 
sending them back an equivalent amount 
of money. Meter maids hate them. 
Commuters love them. The city is checking 
the legality of the program.
Fix Your Own Ticket
If you get a ticket, and you have an 
active sense of adventure, there are two 
things you can do:
1. Check the magistrates signature.
There are still a few tickets floating
around that were signed by the former
magistrate. In some cases, his signature
has been crossed out. In either case, 
since hes no longer in office, theyre 
invalid.
2. Hang on to your ticket. Eventually 
youll get a summons in the mail. Now 
heres the good part: There are three 
dates on the summonsthe date of 
violation, the date of information (when 
the magistrate registers the offense), and 
the date of summons. If more than 
fifteen days have elapsed between the 
date of violation and the date of in
formation, the Stature of Limitations 
time limit has expired and you dont 
have to pay a cent. Likewise if more 
than seven days elapse between the date 
of information and the date of 
summons you dont pay. But make sure 
you show up in traffic court on the date 
the summons tells you to. (Not showing 
up in court, even if the ticket is invalid, 
will get you into all kinds of trouble, 
and Harrisburg will frown on your next 
attempt to renew your license.) 
Anyway, when you get to court, hand 
the summons and the ticket to whoever 
wants it and announce that under due 
process of law the ticket is invalid. Be 
sure you smile at everybody as you walk 
out. The only after-effect is that a copy 
of the summons sits in Harrisburg for 
two years, but it wont have any effect
An Offer You Just 
EMERSONS, Ltd.
unlimited steak dinners
rr ALL 
YOU CAN 
EAT
SIRLOIN
MONDAY ONLY
on anything.
There is a chance that the summons will 
be issued on time and youll be out some 
ten bucks. But, reliable sources say that 
approximately 85% arent processed in 
time because of the huge city backlog, and 
anyway the whole process is a lot more fun 
than Parcheesi.
And pay in cash. I hear they charge 
more if you write out a check.
UNWANTEDPREGNANCY?
AMERICAN FAMILY PLANNING IS A 
HOSPITAL-AFFILIATED ORGANIZA
TION OFFERING YOU ALL ALTERNA
TIVES TO AN UNWANTED PREG
NANCY. FOR INFORMATION IN YOUR 
AREA CALL:
Call (215) 449-2006
AMERICAN FAMILY 
PLANNING
A Medical Service to Help You
with your ID Card 
9x12s S15, $19, $29, $39 
also 6x9s, 12x12s, 12x15s
Also wall tapestries, Indian rugs 
furry rug* anri bedspreads. Low 
price oriental rugs in many sixes. 
ASK ABOUT DISCOUNT FURNITURE
5426 Walnut 
ShadysideCHASE'S
I0 a.m. - 8 p.m. Sat. til 5 
For directions call 621 -1025

---------------------------------------------------

fHE TARTANTuesday, October 2, 1973Page 7
Letters:
continued from page 2
ing the growers with sweetheart con
tracts. In December 1972, the California 
Supreme Court found the Teamsters con
tracts with Salinas area lettuce growers to 
represent the ultimate form of favorit
ism. The court ruled that these agree
ments represented the growers', but not 
the workers choice of union.
On September 13, 1973, a federal grand 
jury indicted two executives of vegetable 
packing firms in California and a former 
Teamster official for bribery in connection 
with a plan to hamper organizational activi
ties of the United Farm Workers Organiza
tional Committee (UFWOC) in the Salinas 
Valley.
With its picket lines endangered by the 
recent violence, the UFW is seeking to 
maximize its boycott across the nation. As 
colder weather comes, native grown lettuce 
will disappear from Eastern markets like 
Pittsburgh. Another boycott target is table 
grapes, which keep in cold storage for six 
months.
It may be that after inquiry into the 
matter, there will be some who wish to 
adopt the suggestion of the United Farm 
Workers to cease purchasing or consuming 
head lettuce or grapes unless an absolutely 
genuine United Farm Workers AFL-CIO la
bel is on the box.
I notice that these food items are of
fered at the Skibo Cafeteria. Perhaps some 
will want to ask the management there 
whether they request the United Farm 
Workers label and products when they buy.
Perhaps those members of the adminis
tration, faculty, or other campus personnel 
who make catering reservations at Skibo, 
may choose to designate that the menu for 
their group not include head lettuce or 
grapes unless they are UFW labelled.
I understand that information about 
this dispute from the Farm Workers point 
of view is available in Pittsburgh at United 
Farm Workers, 5867 Ellsworth Avenue, 
Pittsburgh 15232, or by phoning them at 
362-9394.
Thomas M. Kerr 
GSIA
Editor:
More and more resident college students 
in this area have been coming to our animal 
shelter and adopting pets. While we are 
more than anxious to find homes for the 
animals in our care, we do make every 
effort to see that they are placed in homes 
where they will be well cared for, and to 
this end we investigate the new homes a 
month or so after adoption to make sure 
both the new owners and the pets are 
content.
Our investigations of these college place
ments have convinced us that they are not 
in the best interests of the animals 
involved. The students take animals with 
the best of intentions, we are sure, but 
they do not take proper care of them 
because they have neither the time nor the 
money to do so.
Our investigations further show that the 
students do not make the necessary effort 
to housebreak their pets. Wherever the 
animals are kept-in the students room, the 
dorm, the sorority house or the fraternity 
house-a real health hazard from uncleanli
ness has developed.
In addition, the students do not have 
the necessary funds to see that the animals 
eceive proper medical care, including dis'mper shots. They do not have the female 
'imals spayed and the males neutered.
even though the Humane Society will spay 
or neuter free of charge any animal 
adopted from our kennel.
Generally the students want the animals 
to keep them company, but their parents 
do not want the pets when the student 
goes home for vacation. Consequently, the 
inimal suffers both physically and 
3motionallv from such instability.
Will you please let it be known to your 
student body that we will no long place 
animals with students. We regret this action 
but feel it is in the best interests of all 
concerned.
Since this is such a serious problem, we 
are requesting the cooperation of all the 
animal shelters in the city, as well as the 
landlords of student tenants. The animal 
organizations are the Animal Rescue 
League in East Liberty, Animal Friends on 
Penn Avenue, and Animal Control Service, 
Marvista Street, North Side.
William R. Renn 
Superintendent of Agents
Editor:
If I understood Jeff Englunds article
correctly, his message was that a little good 
natured ribbing never hurt anyone. This is 
the kind of message that everyone feels 
obligated to agree with on pain of being 
labeled bigoted, dull, or communistic. 
However, lets look at some of the most 
comedic characters in history. Some of the 
most laughed at people in early films were 
black men--from Shirley Temples dancing 
partners to Rodchester, America got a real 
kick out of snickering at the ineffectual, 
powerless, and, therefor, impotent black 
clown.
And, of course, artists have always been 
delightfully amusing. Whether in art, 
literature, or the theatre many people 
assume that such careers are actually 
excuses for those who cannot face going 
into a serious profession. Painting--its 
childs play; acting-anyone can do it; 
writing-well its a little more dignified 
perhaps but is certainly a frivolous waste of 
time. Van Gogh was literallv laughed to 
death.
Even our computer nurds have their 
lighter side.
Im sure Jeff would find all these groups 
worthy of his comments but I hope that he 
will look with a little more depth into the 
unfunny aspects of each situation. I agree 
that Rosemary was not the best announcer. 
On the other hand, Cosells patronizing, 
fatherly tolerance and encouragement of 
her remarks was not the only thing saving 
Bobby Riggs from instant death. Clearly, 
the more childish her statements, the more 
he and the other commentator enjoyed 
themselves-what better way to make her 
look ridiculous than to have the audience 
laugh, indeed guffaw, AT her. Particularly 
since Mr. Riggs was not the big gas 
everyone was hoping for. (I must confess 
to a few grins of satisfaction on witnessing 
his defeat.) Laughter can be used as a 
weapon and there is a difference between a 
staged farce (i.e. the Battle of the Sexes) 
and being made a fool.
Perhaps Margaret Court would have 
been a better commentator-Perhaps 
Rosemary Casals was a better comment on 
why women have lost their sense of humor.
Grace DAlo
A fKLLH7ZA9A6ELTftm F|R5T 100 WHO BRWQ TOlS IN COLORED H ALSO... 
Tflt E5T CQLORC-IH AD GETS A *25 FOO? EKTIFICATEFDR OBWSFOrtKlMlW
This advertisement Is sole property of RLS Associates, Advertising Consultants Inc., 243-8222

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8THE TARTANTuesday, October 2, 1973
Modern Language: 
A Translating 
Experience
by Michael Scott Baum
Winning little support or encouragement 
from its benefactors, the department of 
Modern Languages has been stigmatized by 
many students, faculty, and administrators 
alike as weak and underdeveloped. Yet 
despite its apparent smallness and silence, 
the student body awarded the faculty of 
Modern Languages the highest rating of 
any other department in the university. 
(Alpha Phi Omega course evaluation of fall 
1972.)
In an interview with Dr. Silenieks, head 
of the department of Modern Languages, 
he stated that the department's smallness is 
not a result of academic weakness, but is 
the product of a national trend towards a 
decrease in students choosing language as 
their major field of study. No national in
crease in student interest is forseen. (CMU 
has approximately forty modern language 
majors, many of them holding double 
majors.) This trend is detrimental to the 
operation of the department.
Silenieks, who became department head 
in 1968 after eight years at CMU. stated 
that his department lacks financial support. 
Foundations and private sources seem to 
be more hesitant to give substantial dona
tions to Modern Languages because of its 
small size and poor visibility. Many people 
perceive CMUs Modern Languages as a 
service department," functioning only to 
augment the curriculum of the university's 
many strong departments.
Uphill Struggle
Dr. Silenieks believes that President 
Cyert did not allot much money for Mod
ern Languages department because of its 
probable inability to achieve national re
known. Since other universities are too 
competitive, the university would not be at 
its best advantage in expanding the depart
ment financially. Silenieks also felt that the 
President was probably justified in this pol
icy and further stated, It is an uphill 
struggle, I recognize, but then I must say 
that we have not beet., in the past, as active 
as we should have been.
The department once maintained a pro
gram for foreign language study abroad. 
Funds ran out and the project was subse
quently discontinued. It was very success
ful, but just didnt have support. An 
attempt is now underway to restore the 
program.
Speaking of the relatively new adminis
trative structure in H&SS, the head of 
Modem Languages continued, I think that 
the school administrative hierarchy doesnt 
always reflect our orientation and our 
wishes. Under the new provost system we 
are detatched from fine arts, but we would 
like to establish closer college 
relations... yet we have had success in 
establishing closer interdepartmental 
relations.
The department is initiating creative and 
original projects which are scheduled to 
begin soon. Most impressive of these is the 
Translation Center treated to fulfull 
three functions. The first of these is to 
offer students an academic program in 
which they can acquire practical trans
lation skills.
The second is to provide opportunities 
for practical experience in translation. The
Dr. Juris Silenieks, chairman of the Department 
of Modern Language.
center will establish a commercial transla
tion service. Present plans call for this ser
vice to be run by qualified students with 
assistance from faculty and the entreprenurial center. Prof. Tom Camala will 
pilot this program. David Marcus, a CMU 
electircal engineering and Modern Lan
guages double major who has just received 
his accreditation as a translator will shortly 
announce a meeting to discuss the aims, 
activities and other organizational matters 
of the translation service.
The third function Is to promote 
extensive research in the area of 
translation.
A three week mini-session on translation 
theory will be held during the January 
break to deal with aspects of philisophy, 
history and the aesthetics of translation 
and related topics. The noted French critic 
and scholar, Jean Paris, whose lecture series 
on Greek tragedies was highly successful in 
the Drama department last January will 
conduct this winters session. The Modern 
continued on page 9Thistle Sprouting
A subcommittee was appointed un
animously by the Student Senate to ex
plore the possibilities of reinstituting the 
Carnegie-Mellon University yearbook, the 
Thistle.
Johnny McQuine, a junior, represented 
a group of six Thistle advocates on campus 
at the Student Senates Wednesday 
meeting. The Senate gave their unanimous 
approval for the project. John, Linda 
Ackerman, Erica Glees, Kevin Scott, Ruth 
Potts and Clifton Green are now working 
on a proposed budget to be submitted to 
the finance committee.
The last Thistle appeared in 1971 as a 
senior paperback yearbook. Prior to 69 it 
was hardbound. The Thistle subcommittee 
hopes to restore the hardback and convert 
it back into a yearbook for the entire 
school. Due to the late start, they doubt 
whether one will appear this year. But, says 
John, We will have a yearbook; weve 
already received the enthusiastic approval 
of the Student Senate.
Only one problem has arisen so far. The 
Thistle Office is presently occupied by the 
Commuters Club so according to Bob 
McCurdy, another space will be provided 
soon.
The first official meeting of the sub
committee will be held Thursday, October 
4 in Apt. 103 MG at 4:30. Interested 
students are encouraged to attend.
PIRG Lacks 
Public Interest
by Chip Yeager
In its single year of existence, the CMU 
chapter of the Public Interest Research 
Group (PIRG) has continually struggled for 
organization. This difficult effort has made 
any real work impracticable. Chief among 
the causes, according to local chapter head 
Steve Rubenstein, are budget problems, 
and student apathy.
PIRG was formed to provide students 
with a rallying point around which to ini
tiate constructive social change. The CMU 
chapter is only one of many around the 
country. The movement started as an idea 
of Ralph Naders. The consumer advocate 
suggested a core organization of a dozen 
paid professionals, along with student vol
unteer workers, all supported by a manda
tory donation added on to student tuition 
bills,. Such a donation was contingent on a 
majority of students signing a petition sup
porting PIRG. CMU students signed such a 
petition, but the trustees made the dona
tion purely optional. The students elected 
a campus board of directors who, in turn, 
sent representatives to an area board in 
control of the local chapter. In ecology
conscious Oregon, this plan worked well. 
In industry-conscious Pittsburgh, PIRG or
ganizations have met a less kind fate.
Locally, the environmental burden is 
shared between two groups. Western Penn
sylvania PIRG (WP.PIRG) is the supervi
sory body. It is incorporated, and is the 
clearinghouse for local chapters at CMU, 
Pitt and Chatham. The CMU chapter calls 
itself the Friends of PIRG. The latter group 
is the sole recipient of Student Govern
ment funds and of the money collected 
from this summers donations. According 
to Student Government member Willie
Thompson, PIRG has, since its inception, 
received $1200 in student funds. Last year, 
PIRG spent $500 of that amount in organ
izing itself. The other $700 was frozen 
when PIRG indicated that it would not 
spend that money until it regained a solid 
footing. As of this writing, the administra
tion has not released the total figure on the 
summer contributions made in addition to 
tuition payments. This amount is the only 
other source of funds PIRG has. Last year, 
Thompson said, PIRGs rquest for the pig
gyback donation barely passed Student 
Senate. Continuation of this system of con
tributions requires a positive response by 
over 35% of the recipients.
What has PIRG done with the $500 it 
has received? According to Steve Ruben
stein, PIRGs most tangible actions have 
been to advertise the presence of courses 
related to the environment and available to 
CMU students. PIRG has offered encontinued on page 10
WQED-FM came to campus for two days last 
week, broadcasting live from the cut. They sold 
a lot of posters, played a lot of opera, and even 
read from the C-MU catalog.
Dreom
Water bed/
3807 FORBES AVENUE OAKLAND
above the King's Court Theater
 SPECIAL SALE 
KING SIZE WATERBED
24.95
Reg. 29.95
WITH THIS AD OFFER EXPIRES OCTOBER 6, 1973
HOURS: WEEKDAYS & SATURDAYS 
12:00 - 6:00
MONDAYS & THURSDAYS UNTIL 9:00 
687-8944

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 2, 1973-Page 9
? R.A.s Work 
Not Clear
by Sharon Curcio
About two weeks ago, CMU dormitory 
residents received a letter from the housing
* office inviting t to apply for 14 jobs as 
resident assistants. According to the letter, 
the resident assistants would serve as liason 
between students and housing, help
students deal with Warner Hall, assist
students in emergencies, prevent theft of 
university property, and mediate disputes 
between dormitory residents. Each resident 
assistant would receive $72 per month, 
i which would result in a yearly cost of 
about $8000 for salaries alone.
At a Mens Dormitory Council meeting 
on September 19, Housing Director James 
Curl told the dorm representatives that the 
program is not designed to supercede any 
existing positions ... not designed to re
place counselors, or to supercede any 
current student organizations. He
ji explained that the housing office wants to 
make it worth something to live in 
residence halls... we have made a
committment to the value of residence hall 
living.
Curl underwent some critical
questioning from Morewood representative 
Mark Kellner, who wanted a list of specific 
duties that housing expects the resident 
) assistants to perform. Curl refused to tell 
specifically what the assistants would and 
would not do, saying that he didnt want 
to impose rules on the people he was hiring 
without giving them a chance to make 
suggestions. Kellner replied that it is not 
customary to hire people and then ask
them what work they think they should 
do.
In answer to a question, Curl did say 
that resident assistants would perform no 
regulatory or disciplinary function. He 
ultimately promised to return to MDC with 
more detailed guidelines for the assistants 
jobs.
MDC was not asked to approve the new 
program before housing sent out the 
letters.
The resident assistants, who will be 
required to spend a certain number of 
weekends and holidays in the dorms in case 
residents need help, are being selected by 
group interviews. A resident who attended 
one of the interviews described it as a 
kind of group therapy session. Each 
applicant was given a mimeographed list of 
about twenty hypothetical persons (a 67 
year old doctor traveling to Europe for a 
conference on open heart surgery, a college 
dropout carrying a kilo of marijuana, etc.) 
and asked to pick which of them he would 
take with him on a life raft. Afterwards the 
entire group discussed the selections.
New options will increase use of the ModernPhoto by Grefenstette
TIRED OF THE SAME OLD CRAP?
EAT BETTER CRAP AT
Dough Made Fresh Daily
WE DELIVER
CENTRE AT CRAIG 621-6755
M.L. Revisions
continued from page 8
Language Department hopes to attract stu
dents from all departments.
Translation workshops in French, Ger
man and Spanish are scheduled to provide 
opportunities for closely supervised transla
tion practice of graduated difficulty. These 
workshops offer two options: technicalscientific, and literary translation.
Professor Tom Camala will conduct a 
technical translation workshop in German, 
French and Spanish. This program should 
be of interest not only to those language 
majors who intend to specialize in profes
sional translation, but also to CIT and MIS 
students who want to enhance their profes
sional potential through adjunct linguistic
Language lab.
skills.
The literary translation option (Belletristic), to be taught by Professor James 
Rosenburg of the Drama Department, aims 
at broad liberal educational goals such as 
understanding cultural diversities, enhance
ment of aesthetic sensibilities and 
enlightened linguistic awareness. It is not 
intended to be a highly specialized training 
for professional literary translators al
though it may conceivably lead to a career 
in translation. This interdisciplinaty pro
gram boasts several faculty members who 
have earned notable reputations as either 
translators, creative writers, or both.
Department spirit is optimistic and con
cerned; members hope that in the future 
thery will be more participation from the 
upper administration (financially) and 
from the students (more language majors.)
CMU Activities Board-Drama Department
C-MUMInU
THE PEOPLE SHOW
TheB MlacklL
THURSDAY OCTOBER 4 
9 PM IN THE BALLROOM
FREE TICKETS MAY BE OBTAINED AFTER 4 P.M.
ON THE DAY OF THE SHOW AT SKIBO INFORMATION DESK

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 2, 1973
Remedial Reading 
Discussed
by Sandy Como
Remedial reading was the subject of a 
major colloquium held on the campus of 
Carnegie-Mellon University this summer. 
The series of twelve lectures and discus
sions, held for approximately four hours a 
day, three days a week (from June 25 to 
July 20), was an inter-collegiate effort be
tween the Allegheny and South campuses 
of Allegheny County Community College, 
the University of Pittsburgh, and CarnegieMellon University. In conducting such a 
study seminar it was hoped that a select 
group of interested faculty members from 
the city universities and community col
leges could be drawn together to consider 
the reasons that many young adults show 
reading deficiencies, and to consider what 
measures, methods, or techniques their 
humanities teachers - particularly teachers 
of English and history - might employ to 
help such students.
sented by Valerie Edmundson, Roland M. 
Smith, and Michael P. Weber from the de
partment of history, and Lois J. Fowler, 
Robert C. Slack, and Marilyn Sternglass of 
the department of English. Serving as con
sultants for the colloquium were Elisabeth 
McPherson of Forest Park Community Col
lege in St. Louis, and Virginia Welch of 
Xavier University in New Orleans. During 
the afternoon which they spent with the 
group, they discussed their individual en
counters in the field of developmental 
reading, and shared with the others their 
various observations on the subject.
Prior to the development of the semi
nar, selected members of the faculty of the 
English department at CMU held a con
ference with faculty personnel at Alleghe
ny County Community college and asked 
for suggestions concerning ways in which 
teachers could be better prepared to handle 
students with pronounced reading deficien
cies, since many graduate students at CMU
Professor Slack, acting head of the English Department was appointed 
chairman of readincj colloquiem.
Photo by Brian Smith
Although underdeveloped reading abili
ty is not a frequently encountered problem 
at CMU, instructors have become aware 
that it is an acute issue in the community 
colleges. Students who are found to be 
doing poorly in programs offered by the 
community colleges are often the victims 
of an inadequate capacity for reading com
prehension. Once an instructor has uncov
ered a students reading problem, it was 
felt that he or she should be able to revert 
to certain proven tactics in order to help 
eliminate the matter of concern. It was the 
objective of the committee chosen for the 
seminar to develop such tactics.
Dr. Robert C. Slack, acting head of th< 
department of English at CMU, was ap 
pointed chairman of the seminar commit 
tee, and subsequently elector of the othe, 
participants in the colloquium. From the 
Allegheny campus of Allegheny County 
Community College were chosen Jean 
Aston, also a graduate student at CMU, 
Elaine Supowitz, and Reah Wender, a read
ing specialist. The South campus of the 
college was represented by Joseph Garvin 
and Mary Alice Herbert, also graduate stu
dents at CMU. Stephen M. Koziol was the 
sole delegate from the University of Pitts
burgh, while CMU was adequately repre
enter the field of teaching as instructors at 
community colleges. Thus, the genesis of 
the colloquium resulted from a desire to 
introduce to graduate students an extra 
ingredient of training that would bring 
home the realities of education.
During the first stages of the program, 
the committee attempted to define the ac
tual issues: first of all, the type of student 
who is a problem, and secondly, why he or 
she is a problem. Having defined the issues, 
the group went on to suggest some projects 
to be undertaken by the colleges and uni
versities which would enlighten the public 
and augment progress in the-field of reme
dial reading. They then sketched the drafts 
of several projects to fund. As Dr. Slack 
remarked, the tentative status of the pro
jects demands secrecy until after they have 
been negotiated between the colleges.
Nevertheless, Dr. Slack feels that the 
meetings were quite a profitable experi
ence, whatever the outcome of the nego
tiations may be. He contends that the par
ticipants in the colloquium had sparked 
an enthusiasm and a desire to go ahead in 
this area,  and that future relations with 
the participating institutions were aided 
immensely by the spirit of cooperation 
revealed throughout the seminar.
Problems, Anyone ?
jby David Bush
Answer to last weeks problem: Since 
the average value of a randomly selected 
coin equals the total amount of money 
divided by the number of coins in the 
bank, we have
p+5n+10d+25q 
p+n+d+q
Since A is odd, the values (1-A), (5-A), 
and (25-A) are even, so
p( 1 - A)+n(5-A)+q(25-A)=d(A-10)
is even. Since A-10 is odd, d must be 
ven. The only even prime is 2, so there 
nust be two dimes in the bank.
Answer to the problem before that: 
Im re-stating this solution because the 
diagram wasnt included in last weeks 
?aper.) The first player should win. Let the 
nine triangles of the figure be numbered 
ihusly:
Let the notation for the record of a 
game be as follows: Any move is repre
sented as a string of digit(s) corresponding 
to the triangles crossed out in that move 
The move shown in the diagram could be 
represented by 2348. Let a comma follow 
the first players moves, and a semicolon 
follow the second players moves. The 
winning first move is 7 (or 2 or 4) 
Here are some sample games: 7, 1; 9, 2; 46 
5; 38, .7, 1; 5, 3; 9, 6; 248, . 7, 2; 4, 38 
6, 1; 59, . 7, 3; 5689, 41; 2, . Some losing 
continuations for the first player: 13, 
6784; 5, 29;. 1,56; 9, 4; 83, 27;.
Unfortunately, inspiration did not befall 
me this week. If youve got an original 
problem and youd like your name in the 
paper, come to the Math Club which meets 
on alternate Thursdays in SCH 5427 at 
4:30 p.m., and show it to our panel of 
judges. Or, you could mail your ideas 
to D. Bush, box 550. I make no promises, 
save that I will mention your name if a 
name is given and I decide to publish the 
problem.
Public Interest 
Research Group
continued from page 8
couragement and help to projects under
taken by CMU professors. More ambitious 
plans, says Rubenstein, have been shelved 
until adequate funds become available. Ini
tially, PIRG planned to hire a couple of 
staff members to man the area office. 
Beyond that, according to Rubenstein, no 
gatherer of information for use by others.
The CMU chapter of PIRG has run into 
problems frojn the first, with the manifold 
difficulties preventing it from achieving its 
full potential. Due to some mix-ups last 
January, the PIRG donation solicitation 
went into the mails not long before the 
donation forms themselves. In the interval, 
PIRG did not greatly publicize itself, thus 
hobbling its chance of collecting an 
adequate sum for its operations. Moreover, 
its initial failure did not improve its 
chances of obtaining a second collection 
over the summer, the very thing it needed 
to continue effectively. As noted above, 
final totals are not now available from the 
summer levy, but they arent expected to 
be significantly greater. A problem aggra
vating PIRGs misfortunes was summed up 
by Rubenstein:
Students are apathetic, as usual. 
definite plans existed, although PIRG 
could expect plenty of work in whatever 
area of the environment it chose to concen
trate. It was this lack of planning, accor
ding to Thompson, that made Student 
Government so chary of financing PIRG. 
When the local chapter knows the results 
of its summer solicitation, indicated Ru
benstein, it will proceed with plans on a 
limited basis.
One major reason for the insecure finan
cial situation at WP.PIRG was the failure of 
efforts to institute mandatory donation at 
the University of Pittsburgh. The Pitt chap
ter of PIRG pushed for the donation but 
did not even manage to get a voluntary 
checkoff on tuition bills, unlike CMU. 
Coupled with a similar failure at Chatham 
College, the action deprived WP PIRG of 
several thousand dollars a year in income. 
Still, the Pitt chapter has had better luck in 
organizing. The organization receives some 
$2000 a year from Pitt. Over the months, 
its problem has been a surplus of projects, 
rather than a lack of them. One member of 
the staff commented that the tendency this 
year would be to work on one or two 
projects rather than to spread the member
ship too thin. Among the projects con
sidered are some in mass transit, racial dis
crimination, and, as an initial step, student 
grievances. Still, the Pitt PIRG has, for 
now, cut back to a role as a research unit, a
She Needs Your Help
Shes only one of the hun
dreds of thousands of small 
victims of the war in IndoChinamany of them maimed 
or blinded who look to 
UNICEF for help. The 
United Nations Childrens 
Fund is organizing a massive 
recovery program for young
sters desperately in need of 
better food, shelter and medi
cal care. Your contribution 
may be sent to U.S. Commit
tee for UNICEF, 331 East 
38th St., New York 10016.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday. October 2. 1973-Page 11
Keen, Kimmel & Co.
Old Timey 
Music
by Chris Kiskaddon
The three guys playing at the Coffee 
House last weekend were Larry Keen, Dick 
Kimmel, and Richard Pollack from 
down-home West Virginia, home of fiddle 
conventions, square dances, hoe downs, 
and Old Timey Music. The three of them 
have been involved with a lot of different 
types of music; a couple of years ago they 
decided to turn down the volume on their 
music (electric) and come in out of the 
Rock. According to Dick, ear-plugs got to 
be a hassle.
For a year, now, they have been touring 
on the Coffee House Circuit. They stay at a 
given college for three days and play old 
time, bluegrass, country and western, 
blues, folk-rock, 50s rock, and soft 
acoustic ballads.
They also give seminars at the colleges. 
Last week they played and talked to a Fine 
Arts class. Two of them have masters in 
Biology. They can give seminars in animal 
behavior, developmental biology, old time 
instrument restoration and repair, and 
classical photography. They enjoy going to 
college without being tied down. They 
said that they have learned a lot this past 
year and have met a lot of great people. 
They want to pursue music full-time now. 
When asked about their educational 
background, they bring up their West 
Virginia joke, Do you know how to read 
music? Not enough to hurt my playing!
Dick Kimmel says that an instrument to 
a musician is like pencil and paper to a 
writer: its a cop-out not to know how to 
fix your instruments. The three of them 
buy old instruments, repair them, and sell 
some of them. Their instruments may 
change from week to week. They use a lot: 
from mandolin to fiddle.
Keen, Kimmel, and Company may not
be able to get a complete sound out of 
three members, but they say that they 
make up for it in enthusiasm. Three has 
been a good number for them, allowing for 
creativity and variation. They say that they 
like small intimate audiences where they 
can ad lib and just follow a loose list of 
music to play. If they are in a bad mood, 
they say no one will know because theyll 
just use old jokes, etc. as most groups do.
They have their own sound system. 
Wien asked why they use mikes, one 
replied that they,needed them to be heard 
over the talking which is often found in 
coffee houses. They dont like artificial 
mood setters like fancy lighting. They want 
direct contact with the audience. They 
were requested by a majority of 
representatives at the Coffee House 
Circuits Annual Convention.
They recommend the Dixie Travelers, 
a top blue-grass band consisting of older 
players. Keen, Kimmel, and Company has 
been influenced very much by this group 
which plays every Saturday night at 
Walshs Cafe in East Liberty. According to 
one of them, a lot of rock bands are 
seasoning with Blue grass but at Walshs 
you get a full course from these old 
players.
Keen, Kimmel, and Company is a group 
with recording aspirations. They have a 
lot of variety, a lot of adlibing; it would be 
difficult to label them.
Refunds 
Arranged
continued from page 1
semester: in a double turned triple, for 
instance, the three residents together will 
pay the amount of money ordinarily paid 
by two residents.
According to James Kurl, Housing 
Director, the housing office plans to 
contact each student entitled to a refund. 
Students may choose to have the money in 
cash or as a credit toward next semesters 
housing bill.
Psychology Dept.
continued from page 1greater service to the university, but at the 
same time to provide a background for our 
own psychology majors at a point in time 
in their careers when theyre just learning 
the vocabulary ... (in this course) we can 
handle relatively large sections. Some of 
them were up above one hundred this fall, 
but I dont think that will continue; since 
there are so many of those courses, there 
will probably be sections of thirty . . . 
perhaps based upon a lecture discussion 
format. Then the second and third level 
courses can be taken by psychology majors 
or by those students who have gone 
through the pre-requisites and those classes 
should be very small.
Asked why the department offers no 
clinical psychology courses, even at the 
upper course levels, Dr. Gregg answered 
that CMU lacks a medical school and that 
our closest approximation to clinical 
psychology is the counseling center. But he 
explains that even the staff of the 
counseling center never performs the 
diagnostic testing for mental problems.
We are very weak in the personality 
area in terms of number of faculty and the 
kinds of offerings we can make and these 
are very popular course offerings in a 
liberal arts college. We try to offer them, 
but its difficult.
However, Dr. Gregg is enthusiastic on 
the emphasis which can be placed on the 
social sciences. He sees the new 
relationship with Provost Weber as another 
means to strengthen the psychology 
department and provide interaction with 
SUPA and GSIA. An area such as social 
decision making can now become a viable 
and reasonable professional option for 
some of our undergraduate students. He 
does not see it as changing any existing 
programs and he pointed to ways it 
connects with Dean Steinbergs actions. 
One of the things Dean Steinberg has
helped us with has been in the area of child 
development and educational concerns. We 
have a strong program in developmental 
and educational psychology.
For its majors, the psychology 
department presently offers the option of a 
Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science in 
psych. A proposal is being submitted to the 
college council calling for stiffer math and 
biology requirements for the B.S. The 
former grade point average requirement for 
the B.S. has been dropped, but an honors 
program for the B.A. and B.S. are being 
proposed. Said Gregg, I think our B.S. 
program puts us at a particular type of 
advantage especially in the area of 
computer kinds of things which were very 
strong in.
As to the value of researchers as 
teachers, Dr. Gregg commented, Our best 
teachers are those people who are on the 
forefront of research in an area, theyre the 
ones who can capture the excitement. Not 
all of them do, of course. All professors at 
CMU do some teaching and some research.
Cyert
continued from page 1
the faculty that renovation for the Fine 
Arts Building will finally be realized .... 
at this moment (we) are advertising for 
bids from contractors. Besides renovation, 
the College of Fine Arts will also be alloca
ted additional space in other academic 
buildings.
Dr. Cyert also stated that due to the 
reduction of the number of students avail
able for enrollment in universities in the 
70s and with the expected trend of a 
higher proportion of the abailable students 
going to public universities it is necessary 
for us to begin to investigate the proper 
size of the faculty. The President con
cluded his discussion on the faculty size by 
saying the possibility of a small total 
faculty size must be examined because we 
are devoted to the goal of operating the 
University on a balanced budget.
10
RACES!
A GOOD TIME - 50 CENTS
Students presenting I. D. cards 
admitted for 50* every Friday 
and Saturday
FRIDAY, OCT. 5
AMERICA S NEWEST SINGING 
AND COMEDY SENSATION
THE ,
WALKERS /
PITTSBURGHS ANSWER TO
SONNY AND CHER * , ft
SHOW TIME 6:30 RM.
Between Rt. 19 South and Interstate 79 (Exit I) 
Meadow lands, Pa.20 minutes from downtown Pittsburgh
POST TIME 7.30 P.M.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12THE TARTANTuesday, October 2, 1973
entertainment
by Stacey Robin Kimbell
There is a graveyard somewhere,, in 
Clairton Pa. with pictures of the owners of 
the tomb on the head of the stones. In this 
graveyard someone's father was once 
walking late at night and someone else was 
going to be buried soon enough cause their 
hole had been dug. Anyway, this father 
was walking around and he couldnt see 
too well and he fell six feet into somebody 
else's refuge. He is lying on the ground 
down there looking up at the stars and 
trying to figure out a way of getting out 
when he feels something moving around 
with him. He starts groping, then he lights 
a match and this old black guy stares at 
him and says There aint nobody down 
here cept you and me". (This story is fifth 
hand at least.)
Also in the line of burials is a restaurant 
in Brooklyn called Peter Lugers which has 
Si8.00 steaks that are by legend aged 
underground under the Brooklyn Bridge. I 
think really they are flown in from 
Missouri cause no one in Brooklyn who 
knew steaks were buried in the backyard 
would let them stay there for too long. 
Once 1 was walking down 48th street over 
by Eighth Avenue and there was a steak 
lying on the sidewalk. It must of weighed a 
pound and a half and it was the most 
gorgeous piece of meat Id ever seen. 
People were hopping over it or ignoring it 
and I was going to pick it up but a health 
department car showed and said it had 
fallen out of a truck that was being chased 
by N.Y.s finest cause all the steaks were 
horsemeat which is illegal for people to be 
selling it seems, although there is a 
horsemeat market in New Jersey where its 
legal.
This really has little to do with Black 
Angus which is a cow and also a steak 
house in Oakland. (Atwood Street between 
Forbes and Fifth.)
At Black Angus there are pictures of 
greats on the wall like Liberace. He is 
smiling and wearing lots of sequins and has 
his signature sprawled all over the picture 
(except for his face) and though his hands 
are magic, his penmanship isnt cause the 
only word I could make out was Harry. 
Black Angus is real clean and awfully 
suburban. The kind of place youd take 
your parents to show them how civil you 
are. Its decorated terrible. Liberace on a 
corkboard, pseudo-soft lighting, and the 
skull of a Black Angus suspended from the 
ceiling. My big blond accompianist rated 
the atmosphere congenial and the 
waitresses dumb. The waitresses were all 
wearing this black jumper and they all 
looked like hospital volunteers. All in the 
same, Black Angus is a steak house and I 
ate steak. A 14 oz. N.Y. Sirloin, which I 
cant understand cause there is nothing
special about steaks from New York the 
way there would be if it was from Kansas 
or Missouri. Also, it was only 10 or 12 oz. 
but it was real good. In fact it was terrific 
but that could be cause Id been craving 
steak all week and anything might have 
sufficed. Mr. Joseph Plevel of the U.S. 400 
who probably prefers horses to cows and 
chickens to both had lamb chops and he 
said they were just fine except that he 
demolished them in 45 seconds or less. I 
cant remember him eating at all, just 
drinking. They served us liquor without 
questioning. The Daiquiris were a bit too 
sweet but they did the job and the 
Burgundy was real cheap tasting. The beer 
was Heineken which the beer connoisseur 
said was the best to be gotten in the 
country.
We ate full course dinners. Thats a 
salad, an appetizer, the entree and a potato 
or vegetable and dessert and coffee. The 
salad was reminiscent of Skibo salads and 
they didnt put enough vinegar in with the 
oil. We didnt have dessert but the coffee 
was good. A full dinner was $7.50 which 
was a reasonable price for meat and all that 
other stuff although all we really ate was 
the meat. The drinks were kind of ex
pensive cause the whole deal cost around 
$10.00 per person. We sat there over two 
hours without being hassled and I dont 
think there was any muszak. Take mom.
In Belgrade, Yugoslavia: A homesick pig 
walked more than 40 miles to the farm of 
his former owner. The pig had been sold 
the day before.
by Sharon Neustein
An adaptation of Niccolo Machiavellis 
Madragola, retitled The Mandrake, is the 
Pittsburgh Poor Players first offering of 
the season. As in his more famous work, 
The Prince, Machiavelli uses the play as a 
vehicle for demonstrating the weaknesses 
of human nature. His characters mani
pulate each other in classic Machiavellian 
style by playing on these natural weak
nesses. But there the similarity to The 
pYince ends. The form of the play is more 
reminiscent of Shakespeare and Molieres 
comedies than anything else.
The plot, based on the desire of 
Callimaco, an earnest young man, to get 
his neighbors virtuous wife, Lucrezia, into 
bed, follows classic form. It builds, with 
ever increasing absurdity, to a successful 
climax, after which the audience is gently 
relaxed and bid a thoughtful farewell. In 
fact, the cast does a good deal of talking 
directly to the audience. This, coupled 
with the small size of the theater (its at 
the University and City Ministries), creates 
in air of intimacy that considerably adds 
to the enjoyment of the play. The small 
theater also means a small stage to work 
with, but here again the problem is turned 
to advantage. The staging and set do 
wonders with the small area.
by Doug Stone 
Extreme Goseup 
Written by Michael Crichton 
Directed by Jeanot Swzarc
The reason for the making of Extreme 
Goseup eludes me. It is not dirty enough 
to be pornography, not produced badly 
enough to be laughed at, and not good 
enough to make a substantial amount of 
money. It does have, however, one 
attribute that stands out; it is un
remittingly boring. I have a deep feeling 
about doling out money to see movies, 
and being parted with three dollars to see 
Extreme Goseup left me feeling a trifle 
perturbed. Watching this movie is much 
like leafing through several years of back 
issues of Playboy. In fact the topic of the 
movie is watching. It concerns a television 
newsman who when doing a week long 
story on invasion of privacy, is presented 
with several sophisticated survelliance 
instruments, and begins his voyeuristic 
quest for fullfillment. He spies on 
practically any woman with reasonable 
proportions, and even courts with danger 
on his way. (During the movie he peeps out 
of his apartment across the way to women 
in the neighboring apartments, a distinct 
reminder of my freshman year at C-MU 
when men were first moved into E-tower.) 
Needless to say he escapes from all 
situations unscathed. In the end he 
evidently has given up his hobby, 
apparently due to the fact that he-was 
required to return his playthings at the
conclusion of his expose on privacy 
invasion. He goes back to enjoying 
wholesome sex with his beautiful wife, and 
surprise, as the curtain falls, he himself is 
being watched by a mysterious somebody, 
as he hops into the sack with his willing 
mate. Isnt it nice that we have writers with 
such consumate talent as to think of so 
clever an ending?
When I heard that Michael Crichton had 
written Extreme Goseup, visions of tense 
action and a tightly written script danced 
through my head. Alas, this movie is hardly 
any more imaginative than the daydreams 
of a lecherous freshman engineer during a 
typical calculus lecture. Most people have 
better fantasies in ninth grade.
The acting in Extreme Goseup is un
fortunately too good for the movie. In 
most R rated soft core porn type films, 
the actors are incompetent enough to be 
funny. Since Extreme Goseup was pro
duced by a major film company, real actors 
and actresses were employed, hence the 
acting is not funny, merely mediocre. This 
serves only to reinforce the monotony of 
the film.
Jeanot Swzarc, the director, manages to
get nothing from his actors other than
routine television type performances, which is understandable though, as Swzarc
directed many of the poorer Night Gallery
episodes.
It is probably evident by now that I do 
not recommend this film. If for some 
strange reason, anyone finds himself 
bursting with the urge to trot down to the 
Kings Court for the purpose of viewing 
this film, I urge him to reconsider. Try 
counting the number of bubbles in a glass 
of your favorite brew, its far more enter
taining.
A great deal of credit must be given to 
John Donnelly, who adapted and directed 
the play. Never having seen or read the 
original, I cant say how much of the play 
is Machiavellis and how much is John 
Donnellys, but the whole is certainly an 
excellent, enjoyable play. One bit which 
must certainly be Donnellys does much to 
create the air of merriment which is 
evident throughout. He pits Siro, 
Callimacos somewhat phlegmatic servant 
played by Thom Miller, against Lucrezias 
mischievous maid Franceschina, played by 
Christie Gesler, in a running pantomime. It 
ties in with the rest of the play at crucial 
points, such as the disposition of a 
urinalysis sample.
In connection with the pantomime, 
mention must be made of the music by 
Christine Chester. Nothing could have fit 
the play better than this. It was sprightly 
and gay and seemed to come right out of 
the time in which the play was written. I 
dont know much about music, but I do 
know that this was good.
Like Shakespeare, Machiavelli seems to 
have had a tendency to keep the actual 
presence of women on stage to a minimum. 
Lucrezia, played by Kathleen Kennedy, is 
talked about all the time, but appears on 
stage rarely. When she does appear, she
seems more pettish and spoiled than 
virtuous, but this is probably an 
impro.vement on her description as a 
virtuous termagant. Rosemary Meyerjack, 
as Lucrezias mother Sostrata, is on stage 
even less. She seems to be a rather loud, 
managing type, but I cant quite picture 
her as having an understanding with 
Ligurio.
John Kirch, as Ligurio, is described as a 
parasite, but he seems to do quite a bit to 
earn whatever hes getting. It is he who 
manages everybody and figures everything 
out. I found his performance delightful, 
but he does have a tendency to exaggerate 
his movements. Another character who 
exaggerates a lot is Callimaco, portrayed by 
William Robinson. Typical of these is the 
enormous codpiece with which Patrice 
Alexander, the costume designer, has 
provided him. Robinson displays a good 
deal of versatility in his performance. One 
moment he is a spoiled little boy, and the 
next he is portraying a learned doctor or an 
itinerant singer. He manages to make them 
all believable and thoroughly enjoyable.
Russ Wilday, as Nicia Calfucci, the 
husband, gives a very funny portrayal of a 
foolish and sometimes-deaf old man, but 
falls short of being convincingly old. Much 
more convincing is William Becks friar 
Timoteo. His is probably the most subdued 
character, being somewhat pilosophical in 
outlook. He seems intended to point out 
human frailty more than any of the other 
characters because he is the only one who 
realizes his own.
The Poor Players entire company must 
be congratulated on a delightful, really 
good production. I, at least, will be looking 
forward to future productions of the same 
high quality.
The position of Events Editor is 
still open. Contact Sue Klein.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 2. 1973-Page 13
Taking all the mellowness and liveliness 
that was ever wanted from acoustical 
guitar, flute, harpsichord and moog, one 
might expect a re-orientated Emerson, 
Lake and Palmer. This seems to be the 
efforts of five young Italians who refer to 
themselves as Premiata Fomeria Marconi, 
or PFM.
There has been a subtle influx of music 
from the European continent that was 
heretofore either non-existent or ignored. 
There has always been a considerable ex
change of pop culture between the U.S. 
and the British Isles in the last decade, but 
not until recently have other western 
nations been allowed to enjoy the popular 
limelight.Thus the medium of rock has 
always been English. Just as classical opera 
is most often in Italian, and the Chinese 
ballet in Mandarin, western audiences tend 
to lean toward some variation of the 
English language for a number of historical 
reasons. (Obviously, there are exceptions. 
The Beatles Komm Gibt Mir Deine 
Hand and Kyu Sakamotos Suki Yaki 
each had their novelty, but the specific 
attraction to these is isolated.) Foreign 
audiences however have lived with this for 
years, and many of their own local bands 
memorize English lyrics they dont 
understand.
As for PFM, six of the seven tracks are 
English translations of the original lyrics, 
but the sole Italian track is probably the 
most moving. II Banchetto tells of a king 
who invites three of his friends (The Poet, 
The Assassin and The Pope) to a banquet. 
During the meal they all go to the window 
and see beyond the Palace Gates a crowd 
of miserable poor people. There is laughter 
in the banquetting hall and the King 
wonders why the people are not as happy as 
he and his friends... The lyrics are 
appropriately left as they were originally 
conceived.
Inevitably, PFM will be compared to 
Emerson, Lake and Palmer. True, 
Franz DiCioccios drumming is of that* 
crispy thud quality not unlike Greg
Lakes, and Flavio Premolis keyboards are 
vaguely reminiscent of Keith Emerson 
(though not nearly as skillful). But PFMs 
approach works; they have the awareness 
and sensibility that helps them avoid the 
overkill and franticness that E/L/P at times 
(dare I say?) tend to become steeped in. 
One of the things that makes PFM such a 
joy is their conscientious avoidence of 
these excesses. Where many groups into 
space music tend to fight moog against 
voices against guitar and drums, PFM 
manages to keep each instrument in its 
appropriate subtlety till the appropriate 
moment. Simplicity of melody is always 
matched with the necessary complex 
rhythm, and well developed harmonies 
dont compete with overdone instru
mentation. The classical orientation of 
PFM is delicate and precise. They join the 
ranks of Genisis and Procol, Rick Wakeman 
and of course Emerson, Lake and Palmer 
who have been trying to add a little class to 
popular music for years. With time and 
exposure, PFM will contribute to this cause 
considerably.
by Studebacher Hoch
By the way there is a new Mothers 
album out. Yes, Over-Nite Sensation, the 
latest release from Frank Zappa and the 
Mothers, is another in the series of fine 
albums from this group, and although this 
record contains just less than thirty-five 
minutes of music, the songs are new and 
very much worth ones attention.
Frank Zappa has changed his style once 
again, not to mention his record label. 
Finally Zappa has allowed himself to sing 
the leads, and does that much more than 
adequately. The album, itself, combines 
the comedy of his earlier music with the 
musical style of his jazz. In many ways it 
is similar to two earlier albums, Hot Rats 
and Just Another Band from L.A., but the 
subjects of the various songs are much 
more subtle.
One object of a record review is to pick 
out the best cuts, yet on Over-Nite 
Sensation all cuts are excellent. Zappas 
return to comedy music is in some ways a 
welcome return, yet the retention of his 
jazz style makes the album a refreshing 
change from the series of copies of his 
earlier work. Zappas upcoming concert 
here at CMU should be eagerly awaited by 
all who care for quality tn music.
By the way, Zappas new label is the 
Discreet label.
the concert /cone
Jcques Bit/ isa/fve&well sfnrritf n pQTtS "
FOR MBS SAKE, DON'T MISS IT! - CMH FOCVS
EVERY WEDNESDAY & THURSDAY at 7:30 P .'A 
WALT HARPER'S ATTIC! Market Sq.
Student Rush 7:25 P.M. $3.00 with ID
00COMPUTERIZED
DATING
FOR FREE MOCHURE ON 
COMPUTERIZED DATING.
ONLY FOR THE MOST DISCRIMINATING. 
FOR FREE BROCHURE,
WRITE
DATAMATIC 
P. O. BOX 7421 
OAKLAND STATIC 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 
15213
by Steve Perkins
The Greatful Dead are one band whose 
musical evolution has always been closely 
connected to the cultural orientation of 
Americas west coast avant-garde. 
Beginning in San Francisco as a rock an 
roll band, the Dead were first influenced 
by the then current LSD cult and became 
one of the first psychedelic rock bands. 
Their early recordings, made in this era, are 
characterized by extensive improvisation, 
unusual linear figures and rhythms and 
strange lyrics as they tried to capture 
musically the LSD experience. Later, when 
more people began turning their attention 
toward the joys of rural living and the 
simpler things in life, the Deads music took 
on a country sound with more acoustic 
guitar work, more polished vocal 
harmonies and earthy, down-home lyrics. 
Presently, the emphasis seems to be 
shifting back to rock an roll and good time 
boogies, as well as following the current 
nostalgic trend and coming up with songs 
full of all the old, familiar images of 
Americana: southern belles, hillbillies and 
Pappys moonshine whiskey. The Dead 
now seem to be basically trying to cheer us 
up, and we can surely use a little cheer in 
this age of ever rising prices and people like 
Nixon and Mitchell running around loose.
The Greatful Deads Pittsburgh concert 
was a good example of this trend, and the 
band managed to put on a good show dis
pite the difficulties of playing in the Civic 
Arena. The songs played were mostly good 
time rockers, funky shuffling tunes and 
old-timey ballads that sometimes seemed 
almost vaudevillian. Most of the material 
was new and unreleased. Some selections 
from Europe 72 were played, notably 
Ramblin Rose and Jack Straw, but 
no earlier material was done except such 
staples as Sugar Magnolia and 
Truckin. The Dead also performed a 
notable amount of jazz influenced material 
in the second half of the concert, particularly in the long jam-medley which 
followed their obligatory rendition of 
Truckin.
Unfortunately, most of the lyrics were 
unintelligable from where I was sitting, in 
spite of the fact that the Dead have one of 
the most massive P.A. set-ups to be seen 
anywhere. The P.A. was in stereo which 
also made it difficult to hear the piano and 
sometimes the bass when sitting on one 
side of the Arena. (The place was only 
half-filled anyway, it was a pity they didnt 
have the concert at the Mosque!) 
Instrumental^, however, the band was 
impeccable as usual. Garcias leads were as 
pungent as ever; Bob Wiers incrediably 
complex rhythm guitar work was nothing 
short of mind-boggling, and Wier is also 
beginning to emerge as a fine second lead 
guitarist. The precision and inventiveness 
with which the entire band played was 
overwhelming and managed to offset the 
technical problems.
All things considered, the Greatful 
Deads Pittsburgh concert was one of the 
happiest things I have experienced in a 
good while. Dispite the fact that the Deads 
stage presentation is very low keyed and 
reserved, (except for bassist Phil Leshs 
constant clowning) both the Dead and 
their music seem to radiate a very strong 
positive energy. Somehow, you cant help 
3ut get the impression that if everyone 
tfould sit down and listen to the Greatful 
Dead, the world would be a lot less 
uptight.
RESEARCH
THOUSANDS OF TOPICS*2.75 per page
Send for your up-to-date. 160-page, mail order catalog. Enclose *1.00 to cover postage (delivery time is 1 to 2 days).
RESEARCH ASSISTANCE, INC
11941 WILSHIRE BLVD., SUITE #2 
LOS ANGELES. CALIF 90025 
(213) 477-8474 or 477 5493 Our research material is soia torresearch assistance only._______
BNAI BRITH HILLEL JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER 
HIGH HOLY DAY SERVICES 1973 
FOR FACULTY AND THEIR FAMILIES 
FOR STUDENTS OF ALL THE PITTSBURGH CAMPUSES 
YOM KIPPUR 
KOL NIDRE
Friday Oct. 5 7 P.M. Ball Room - SKIBO*
Saturday Oct. 6 Rogal Room - Y-IKC**
Morning Worship 10:00 A.M. - 2:00 P.M.
Afternoon Worship - Neilah-Havdalah-Sounding of Shofar 
5:00 P.M. - Sunset
BREAK-THE-FAST DINNER FOLLOWING SHOFAR 
-BY RESERVATION ONLY- $1.25 
Call 621-8875 by Noon, October 3
*Skibo - Student Union of Carnegie Mellon U. off Forbes Ave. 
on the CM. U. Campus
** Y-IKC Bldg., 315 S. Belle field Ave. (opposite Heinz Chapel)
ALL WELCOME
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CALL 621-8875
FALL LUNCHEON LECTURE SERIES 
PERSPECTIVES ON THE JEWS OF EASTERN EUROPE
October 8
LOCATION:
TIME:
COST:
The Life Style Rabbi Phillip Sigal, Director
Bnai Brith Hillel 
Jewish University Center
Bnai Brith Hillel Library. 3rd floor - Y-IKC 
Mondays at Noon 
$. 75 for lunch

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14THE TARTAN Tuesday, October 2, 1973
/ports
Bring On The PAC!
Tartans Beat Oberlin
stYY relLk, ISayG
by Jim Litsas
The C-MU Tartans opened up their '73 
football season with a decisive victory over 
the Oberlin Yeomen at Oberlin. Ohio. 
23-8.
As Bruce Bickar calmly put it, We 
kicked ass.
The first half belonged completely to 
the Tartans. Tom McMeekin opened up the 
scoring with a short field goal in the first 
quarter. On a drive later in the quarter. 
Bob Curtis (tailback) ran into the end zone 
from about two yards out. Ted Harhai 
(QB) began the second quarter scoring with 
another two yard run. (Harhai and Jay 
Duquette switched off at quarterback 
throughout the game.) Curtis finished up 
the second quarter scoring with an 11 yard 
run that rcached pay dirt. Two extra point 
conversions by McMeekin made it 23-0 at 
half-time.
On offense. Curtis probably gained over 
a hundred yards, and John Radic did 
nearly as well. The defense recovered 
fumbles and interceptions left and right, 
and the entire team shone in the first half. 
' The team looked somewhat sloppier in tne 
second half, committing far more penalties 
than necessary, not scoring at all, and 
throwing a big interception in the fourth 
quarter which the Yeomen brought back to 
the five yard line, setting up their only 
score. A two point conversion made the 
final score 23-8.
The Tartans left on Friday at 6:00 p.m. 
for Oberlin and spent the night at a 
Holiday Inn. The entire 60 man squad
First PAC 
Win In C.C.
by Ken Kloes
The cross-country team evened its 
overall record at 2-2. with one win and one 
loss against PAC teams, by destroying Thiel 
16-46 last Wednesday at Schenley Park. 
The Tartans easily took the first four 
places, and placed seven runners ahead of 
the Tomcats third finisher. Ken Kloes was 
the individual winner in a time of 22:12, 
followed by Greg Dewey, Tony McKay, 
and Greg Hyatt. Ray Smith and Tom Silvis 
took sixth and seventh places, and Mark 
Wiesczcyk placed ninth to complete 
C MUs scoring. As with the meets against 
Case and Grove City, though this race was 
not an accurate evaluation of the Tartans 
ability. (Thiel will most likely finish last or 
next to last in the conference this year.) 
The real test will begin October 13 when 
the team resumes competition against PAC 
schools. On the other hand, this meet did 
serve to demonstrate our team speed and 1, 
at least, will be surprised if the Tartans do 
not win the remainder of their conference 
races.
couldnt be taken, so Coach Gasparella 
nicked out 44 players to fight the Yeomen. 
The next day, the Tartans found a football 
field saturated by rain for two days, yet 
was in such beautiful condition that many 
tried to avoid picturing what C-MUs field 
might look like after two days of wet 
weather. The Tartans went out in the rain 
and won.Oberlin is the only team not in the 
Presidents Conference that the Tartans 
will face this year. There seem to be several 
interesting parallels between the two 
teams. Oberlins football team has had but 
two winning seasons since 1949. Oberlin, 
like C-MU, is, to quote Jack Patterson of 
the Akron Beacon Journal, a school for 
fine musicians, intellectuals, free thinkers, 
hippies, not blockers and tacklers. The 
emphasis on football seemed to have re
turned after the Yeomens opening game 
victory over Centre College in Kentucky, 
51-28. They also had an unusually large 
turnout for the game.
Oberlins second game againsit Hiram 
was somewhat different. They lost 40? 14, 
threw interceptions and probably looked 
like they did against the Tartans Saturday. 
Oberlins turnout at Saturdays game was 
quite poor. Surprisingly, despite the rain, 
there were many parents, teachers and 
students who drove up from C-MU to 
support their team. Ten or more 
cheerleaders, five of them male, led the 
Tartan fans in their yelling and certainly 
played a role in the victory. Hopefully, 
fans will continue to turn out to support 
the New Tartans in 1973.
by Glenn Campbell
This Monday and every Monday into 
December a television phenomenon will 
occur. No, we wont really see Matt Dillon 
and Miss Kitty go upstairs and Doc wont 
be performing that lobotomy on Festus. 
What we will see is ABC Monday Night 
Football which in a few short years has 
become a way of life for Fifty million men.
What makes this one game so popular? 
Even though Im not Marshall McLuhan 
and I cant tell a medium from a message, 
Ill try to explain this popularity. Ob
viously pro fodtball fans would watch any 
game no matter when it is on but Monday 
Night Football has Howard Cosell, a man 
as well known as any other sports Figure. 
People claim to watch Monday Night Foot
ball in spite of Cosell but the truth is 
without Cosell the game would not be the 
cultural event that it is.
Last year the Steelers werent on the 
Monday night schedule. Many Steelet fans 
became irate at this slight. The fans were 
distressed because they wanted Howard to 
tell the world what was well known to 
Pittsburghers, that the Steelers have a great 
team. If the fans really detested Cosell as 
much as they said they did, then why did 
they send so many letters to ABC 
demanding that the Steelers be heard 
from? People only value a mans opinion if 
they feel hes important so the fans ob
viously wanted the Cosell ^eal of approval
even while they denounced him as an 
airhead. A sports announcer who can 
transcend the event he is covering is truly 
something rare in a world where most foot
ball games are announced like the play by 
play of the Battle of Britain.
However, Cosell has realized that sports 
is part of show biz and he has not been 
afraid to take chances. Sports Broadcasting 
is a cutthroat business where todays hero 
is tomorrows asterisk. Being controversial 
is part of Cosells nature and he has used 
this trait many times, especially in con
nection with Mohammed Ali. Now Cosells 
most effective partner is Don Meredith, 
affectionately known as Dandy Don. The 
teaming of Cosell and Meredith is the best 
thing to happen to sports broadcasting 
since the instant replay. Merediths country 
humor is the perfect counterpoint when 
Cosell does talk too much.
These men realize that sport is but a 
small portion of life and this is what makes 
them different. Sports fans watch Monday 
Night Football because its not a run of the 
mill game. Dandy Don is part of this, of 
course, but the man who deserves most of 
the credit is Howard Cosell. A man with a 
face not even his mother could love and a 
voice that would bother Helen Keller is the 
most prominent sports figure in the nation. 
Hes the man who has brought journalism 
into sports broadcasting and made Monday 
Night Football the best thing to happen to 
TV since My Mother the Car crashed.
Tartans clash with Thiel in 5-4 victory.Photo by Chris Forland
Is stealing a
long distance call worth 
^ a criminal record?
The use of phoney credit cards, electronic devices or any other means to avoid 
paying for phone calls is against the law. Its stealingpure and simple.
In this state, conviction for making fraudulent phone calls may result in:
 A fine off up to $15,000
 Up to seven years in jail
 Restitution ffor the total cost off the fraud
 Court costs
 A permanent criminal record
One more thing: modern electronic computer systems are being used to track down 
offenders.
The penalties may seem harsh. But the cold fact remains that the law does not look 
on phone fraud as a lark.(O) Befl of Pennsylvania

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 2, 1973 Page 15
Bunch Edges Beta; 
Stars Shine On
by Mike Pochan
On a dismal wet afternoon, the Wild 
Bunch captured its third victory in a row as 
it edged Beta Theta Pi, 16-11. The Bunch 
led 9-1 at the half, but Beta turned it 
around in the third quarter with a score by 
Eddie Mills to make it 11-9 at the start of 
the fourth period. The Bunch fought back 
to put seven more points on the scoresheet. 
With less than a minute to play, Beta 
scored a touchdown, that was called back 
on a penalty, thus destroying their chances 
for a clutch victory.
Coaches All-Stars continued their 
winning ways in the IM major league as 
they crunched Black Magic, 20-6. QB Mike 
Koshute threw two touchdown passes to 
Scatteregia and one to Whiting. Defensive
ly, Scatt and Koshute each picked off a 
Magic pass. The Black Magics in turn 
grabbed three of Koshutes passes. Dave 
Johnson snagged one and Leonard Bell 
pulled in the key interception that set up 
QB Gary Scotts twenty yard touchdown 
run.
Beta Theta Pi defeated Grade A in a 
close contest that ended up under protest. 
BTP end Jeff Grube pulled in two passes 
for touchdowns while' quarterback Stu 
Cedrone ran one alone. Outstanding Grade
A end Harvey Gam also pulled in two 
passes for TDs along with Max Unger who 
had one. Frank Korbett was calling the 
signals.
Grade A protested the 29-19 final 
because of a play in the fourth quarter 
where a referee accidentally blew his 
whistle. Beta was running a play when it 
happened and the A defense froze, 
assuming the play was dead. The Beta ball 
carrier ran untouched into the end zone. 
The referees ruled that the TD was good 
even though the whistle was blown, which 
is solid grounds for a protest.
PIKA bounced back from their loss to 
the All-Stars to walk over SAE, 40-4. PIKA 
end Glen McKeeman sucked in two passes 
for scores. QB Steve Rouch ran 45 yards 
for a TD and Don Treleaven, Ron Salett, 
and Tim Taylor scored the remaining three 
touchdowns. Mike Wegener had two inter
ceptions on defense. SAE quarterback 
Mike Hill looked powerless as he could not 
connect for any TDs.
The Wild Bunch had an easy time with 
the PKTators, 33-10. Quarterback 
Shanahan, John Waites, and lineman 
Atkinson turned in good performances to 
insure a Bunch victory.
In an exciting minor league game, the 
Bearded Clams wiped out the Azzzoles, 
35-1.
Major
National
All-Stars
PIKA
SAE
Black Magic
Wild Bunch 
BTP
PKTators 
Grade A
American
W-L
2-0
1-1
1-1
0-2
W-L
2-0
2-0
0-2
0-2
Women Netters 
Shut Out Penn St., 10-0
by Leslie Allen
Monday, September 24, C-MUs 
womens tennis team traveled to Penn 
State (Fayette) to play their first match of 
the season. Quite impressively the women 
shut out the inexperienced Penn State 
team 3-0 in doubles and 7-0 in singles.
C-MUs victory in the seven singles 
matches came rather easily as Leslie Allen, 
playing number one, defeated Penn States 
first player 6-2, 6-0. Team captain Elly 
Zimmerman, number two, was easily a 
victor 6-0, 6-0. Senior Nancy Pearlman, 
third singles, quickly won 6-0, 6-1. Susy 
Duffy, playing in her first competition, 
kept cool in a close three-setter, winning 
6-4, 2-6, 6-3. Senior.Donna Muslin, number 
5, stopped her opponent, 6-2,6-1 and 
number 6, Nancy Lyons won 6-4,6-0. Lois 
Wholey swept her match 6-0,6-0.
With seven singles victories and the 
teams first victory under their belts, the 
women paired up for doubles, and won all 
three of those matches. Leslie Allen and 
Elly Zimmerman effortlessly defeated Penn 
States first doubles team 6-1, 6-0. Nancy 
Pearlman and Susy Duffy played shortened 
four game sets because of darkness, 
winning 4-0, 5-4, having to play a tie 
breaker in the second set, and the third 
doubles team, Donna Muslin and Nancy 
Lyons, finished up winning 6-1, 6-1.
After their first competition, coach Jane 
Fisk said she was very impressed and 
excited by her teams performance, and 
was now convinced that this tennis team 
was the best that C-MU has had. After this 
comfortable first victory the hard work lies 
ahead, with matches to be played against 
Indiana University, Chatham, Geneva and 
'California State College. The first home 
match of the season is Wednesday, October 
10 at 4:00 p.m. against Indiana University. 
Come out and see the women whip 
Indiana!
Sports
Liberated
by Mary Jo Chabala
The sportswomen of C-MU have 
displayed excellent talent and enthusiasm 
during the past week. Although tennis and 
volleyball intramurals were the only sports 
recorded, the results were superb.
The tennis team played against Penn 
State University (Fayette Campus) at 
Fayette on Monday, September 24. Seven 
Singles matches and three doubles matches 
were held. C-MU won all of these matches.
Womens volleyball intramurals have 
started on Monday, September 24. A total 
of nine teams have been formed. These 
include: Basement Rats, Black Magic, Cleo 
and the Anchor Asses, Dawgs, ElElOs, 
EZBPhi Primes, Faculty-Grads, Kappa 
Sigma Sisters, and Veni, Vidi. Vici.
Women are needed to officiate volley
ball games. Games are held Monday 
through Thursday from 4:30 to 6:30 p.m. 
Anyone interested please call or see Miss 
Fisk in the Gym Room I, extension 415.
Good luck to all sportswomen at C-MU 
as varsity and intramural competition 
begins for the 1973-74 season.
Deadline For 
IM Registration
Wednesday, October 3, 10:00 a.m., is 
the deadline toi entries in four intramural 
sports-Co-Rec Volleyball, Chess, Water 
Polo, and Cross Country. The minimummaximum requirements are as follows: 
Co-Rec Volleyball-8 men, 8 women; 
Chess4, 8; Water Polo5,10; and Cross 
Country-unlimited.
Intermediate
EastWest
W-LW-L
KS2-0 Purple Gnurples2-0
Scrow2-0 O. Dolphins1-0
Gripes2-0 Red Riders B1-0
Red Riders A1-1 SN1-1
Civ. Eng.1-1 Red Death1-1
ATO0-2 McGilldoes1-1
TDP0-2 . DTD0-1
Big Red0-2 PIKA B0-1
Shakes Beers0-2
Charlie LaVallee fights for ball.
Photo by Chris Forland
Quality  Discount lric*s
Minor
Bearded Clams
PKT
PLP
Azzzoles
W-L
2-0
2-0
0-2
0-2
MAHOHN fcNTIDTEED fDM 
COMPLETE AUTO SERVICE 
OFFICIAL INSPECTION STATION
5 Minutes Away From C-MU
BONUS TIRE CENTER
6200 SALTSBURG ROAD 
Lett rs::U LsNNUPRECDT LWT 15235
Martin (Marty) Wikes 795-1775
TYPING
FAST - REASONABLE - EFFICIENT
TOM MPEHS-TlEUS-IISSEItTATIMS 
PUNCTUATION, SPELLING, GftAMMAft 
CttftECTED
AFC0 ENTERPRISES
CALL 421-14M
Electric Typewrites twtd ciciuwcfy
PHOTO COPIES MADE

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16THE TARTANTuesday, October 2, 1973
When this 25-year-old researcher wanted to investigate a possible cancer treatment, we gave him the go-ahead.
We also gave him the right to fail.
At Kodak, its not unusual for a 25-year-old like Jim 
Carroll to win the title of senior research physicist. Like any 
company involved in a lot of basic research, Kodak has felt 
the pressure of modern technology and the need for young, 
fresh thinking. So we hire the best talent we possibly can, 
and then give them as much responsibility as they can han
dle. Whatever their age.
We have departments and divisions, like any company. 
What we dont have are preconceived ideas about how an 
expert scientists time should be spent. So when we received 
a request from the medical community for assistance in ex
perimenting with lasers as a possible cancer treatment, we 
turned to 25-year-old Jim Carroll, who is deep in laser tech
nology, and gave him the go-ahead. He built two half-billion 
watt laser systems, one of which Kodak has donated to the 
National Institute of Health.
The lasers proved unsuccessful in treating cancer, but 
wed make the same decision all over again. We entered laser 
technology because we have a stake in business. We let a 
young researcher help the medical community look for a 
means of cancer treatment because we have a stake in the 
future of mankind.
To put it another way, were in business to make a 
profit. But in furthering our own needs, we have often fur
thered societys. After all, our business depends on our soci
ety. So we care what happens to it.KodakMore than a business.
