Vol. 69, No. 34C-MUFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1970
Student Senate Reaffirms 
High School Free Speech
by Murray Singer
The Student Senate has reaf
firmed its endorsement of the attemps on the part of Tavlor-Allderdice High School students to 
ensure their rights to free speech. 
In a motion passed several weeks 
ago, it was suggested that Joe 
Duckworth, president of the Stu
dent Senate, contact the presi
dents of the student bodies at 
other local universities in order to 
draft a joint statement in support 
of the high school students. When 
Duckworth reported on Tuesday 
that his attempts to carry out the 
suggestion of the Senate had fail
ed, a second motion was passed. 
The motion asserted that the stu
dents of C-MU support in princi
ple the rights of high school stu
dents to free speech and that at
tempts would be made to publicize 
this attitude in the public press.
The rest of last Tuesday's meet
ing was devoted primarily to dif
ferent legislative affairs. The 
first item of old business involved 
impeachment of two senators who 
had not attended any meetings 
since their election last fall. Both 
senators had been informed of the 
anticipated impeachment, but fail
ed to attend the meeting. Both 
were removed from office.
Joe Duckworth exerted his 
presidential veto of a new section 
of fiscal policy which had been ac
cepted by the Finance Committee. 
The section over-ruled the prior 
policy of placing on probation any 
campus group which overspent 
its Senate allotted budget. At
Tuesday s meeting, however. 
Dave Adler moved to override the 
veto on the grounds that penaliz
ing campus groups and deducting 
one year's deficit from the follow
ing year's budget automatically 
would convince club presidents 
and committee chiarmen to pad 
their annual request for funds. 
Duckworth explained that it was 
necessary to hold a threat of pen
alty over the heads of potential of
fenders. but that every case would 
of course be reviewed by the Fi
nancial Committee. One senator 
pointed out that both motions 
would establish adequate guide
lines for organizations with Sen
ate allocations. Nevertheless. Ad
ler's motion to override the veto 
passed by the bare two-thirds ma
jority which was required.
Joe Seltzer moved that the di
rector of the Activity Board be ap
pointed by committee instead of 
elected as is now the case. He 
pointed out that a great deal of 
skill was required to execute the 
responsibilities of this post prop
erly. since the director must con
tact the agents of the entertain
ment groups that the Activities 
Board wishes to bring to campus. 
Those opposing this motion de
clared that the students must be 
given credit for being able to dis
cern adequate and inadequate 
candidates. Seltzer responded that 
certain campus positions, such as 
editor of the Tartan, are appoint
ed, and that director of the Activ
ities Board should be one of them. 
After yielding the chair tempoCollege Councils Seats 
Now Open for Students
Seats are now open to students 
in all of the College Councils of 
C-MU. The College Councils take 
many actions of academic impor
tance to students, ranging from 
decisions on petitions coming 
from individual students to set
ting graduation and course re
quirements. to approving new 
courses to be offered. Students in
terested in academic change can 
have a powerful voice in the Col
lege Councils and these are the 
places where the real academic 
policy decisions are made and 
where reform movements can 
gain a real foothold.
The College Councils meet about 
once a month. Some of the events 
occuring at the Feb. 10 meeting of 
the MMCC H&SS College Coun
cil were: changing the drop date 
for students dropping one course 
to three weeks before the last date 
of classes in a semester, and a dis
cussion centered around the mean
ing and implications of mid-year 
suspension of a student who is do
ing poorly. The agenda of the next 
CIT College Council meeting in
cludes discussion of H&SS course
rarily. Pat Cavannagh warned 
that an appointed position could 
lead to a self-perpetuating dynas
ty. while the election of the direc
tor of the Activities Board does 
actually leave open the possibility 
that an inexperience candidate be 
chosen. At this point the motion 
was tabled for later consideration.
Finally. Marcel Weiner moved 
that the Senate accept the sugges
tion of the rules committee that 
write-in candidates for Senate 
seats be accepted if they receive 
enough votes. As this suggestion 
had been discussed at an earlier 
meeting, it was quickly passed. 
Weiner also proposed that the Ex
ecutive Committee be removed 
from the Senate Constitution, but 
this motion was tabled because of 
the late hour.
One announcement of interest 
was that the Senate suggestion 
that classes be cancelled Easter 
Monday so that students may 
spend Easter at home has been 
accepted.
Marcel Marceau
See Marceau Feb. 18.
Famed Mime Artist Speaks
offerings to CIT students and the 
freshman chemistry course. 
Other issues of interest to stu
dents may often be raised such as 
pass-fail courses and physical ed
ucation requirements.
The Student Government of 
C-MU has been pushing for great
er student power in all University 
decision making and this is espe
cially true in the realm of aca
demic affairs. A number of stu
dents now sit on and vote in the 
Educational Policy Council of the 
Faculty Senate. During the first 
semester of this year seats were 
secured on the College Councils. 
Some students have been appoint
ed to sit on the College Councils 
while others of the seats have re
mained vacant.
In order to push forward in
creased student decision making 
in academic affairs, these seats 
must be filled. Beginning with the 
Student Government elections this 
March 11 and 12. students will 
be elected to College Councils for 
one vear terms. The following
(Continued on Page 7)
Marcel Marceau. acknowledged to the world's 
greatest living exponent of the art of mimethat 
medium of entertainment often described as 'si
lent acting "claims that the sudden revival of in
terest in it during the past few years is perfectly 
logical.''
Mime has become popular again because it is 
the universal art.*' says the celebrated Frenchman, 
who is slated to present a new program here at the 
Syria Mosque on Feb. 18. "Although it is the least 
practiced and most difficult of the dramatic forms, 
it is as old as time itself. It speaks in a "speech
less" tongue that is immediately comprehensible to 
everyone, young and old. It knows no language bar
riers. The possibility of misunderstanding does not 
exist. Therefore it seems to me to be logical that in 
a world where men are working constantly to deter
mine some common ground of understanding, the 
theatre should be influenced to re-activate this me
dium of universal symbols. '
Marceau, who made his North American debut 
in 1955-56, and returned again in 1958, 1960. 1963.
1965, and 1968 to be reviewed in ecstatic phrases no 
less than six times by the New York press, as well 
as critics throughout the country, states that in the 
15 years since his initial visit to the United States 
this country has been the scene of significant activ
ity in the Art of Mime.
'More than a dozen important schools have been 
founded throughout the country to teach this medi
um.  he relates. I myself, have received during 
the past few years over 2,000 letters from eager
young Americans, wanting to study mimeinquir
ing about our classes in Parisasking if I would 
come here and set up a studio and so on. I finally 
acceeded to these requests and in October, 1969, or
ganized a school in Paris. Students from all over the 
world have applied for admission. Working with 
these students has been the highlight of my life.
Marceau feels that despite the fact that since the 
Middle Ages when the Commedia del'Art perform
ed almost completely in mime, there have been very 
few who have devoted themselves exclusively to its 
study. America has produced some of the greatest 
pantomimists of the century: Buster Keaton. 
Charles Chaplin. Harry Langdon, Stan Laurel and 
Oliver Hardy among other silent stars. These ar
tists created in the silent movie era a whole world 
of human prototypes in humorous, pathetic, tragic 
or hilarious situations in life with which their audi
ences were able to identify themselves. He de
scribes Bip, his own alter-ego, who has adven
tures and misadventures with everything from bum
blebees to dance-hall girls, as younger brother 
to Charlie Chaplin's Little Tramp. Physically there 
is no resemblance, since Bip parades up and down 
the boulevards of the world in white face, wearing a 
striped pull-over and culottebut underneath, states 
Marceau, they are blood-brothers whose experi
ences are understood by everyone.
The reason for this, he concludes, is that 
the art of mime is not alone physical, even though it 
appears to be an art of action. The reason for the ac
tion comes from the soul.
Easter Holiday Extended One Day
There will not be classes on Easter Monday at C-MU. The Student Senate passed a resolu
tion about two weeks ago recommending that due to travel considerations that Easter Monday 
classes be cancelled. This recommendation was sent to the Educational Policy Council of the Fac
ulty Senate; they agreed with the Student Senate, again on the basis of hectic travel considera
tions and higher costs for the campus community traveling on Easter Day.
A general policy was adopted that vacations should not begin on Fridays or end on Mondays, 
thus ending the necessity of higher cost weekend traveling.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2THE TARTANFriday, February 13, 1970
ITTEUS TO TUE EDITOR
Campus Inadequately Protected
Editor, The Tartan:
It has become increasingly evident in the past few weeks that our 
campus is inadequately protected by our Security Force. Last week 
three alleged drug addicts needing a fix" committed armed robbery 
in Hammerschlag Hall. In the past two years there have been numerous 
cases of muggings and attempted rape and there have been over a hun
dred cases of robbery in the dormitory and fraternity areas. It is time 
the administration provided the protection that every student at Carnegie-Mellon University is entitled to.
Many of the incidents which have occured between Doherty Hall 
and Warner Hall, in the fraternity complex, and in the men's dormi
tories (except Donner Hall) probably would not have occurred if there 
had been sufficient lighting in these areas to discourage crime. The 
lighting in these areas must be increased. Also spotlights should be 
mounted on all corners of Skibo and the cut and the fine arts area should 
be better illuminated to help prevent crimes before they are committed.
At present our Security Force of 21 is too small to adequately pa
trol our campus 24 hours a day, seven days a week. By increasing the 
Security Force to 27, an addition of only six patrolmen, it would enable 
Security to increase foot patrols by 50 per cent, thereby providing an 
added deterent to crime, and swifter response if a crime should be com
mitted.
I implore the administration to take immediate action on these 
proposals. I realize that these proposals will cost approximately $38,-
000 extra each year, but these measures are necessary to protect the 
lives and property of the students. Is $38,000 too high a price to pay for 
the welfare of the students? Must someone be seriously injured before 
something is done to stop crime at Carnegie-Mellon?
Respectfully, 
Michael B. Sugarman 
President, Phi Kappa Theta Fraternity
Senate Has Ho-Hum Attitude? 
I Disagree; I Feel It Move
Editor, The Tartan:
Have you ever looked at a line? 
Try it. Pick a good straight one.
Like this__________________________
Get out a ruler and check that it s 
straight. Pretty good, huh? Now 
get out a magnifying glass and 
look at it. It's not so straight any
more. Any idea what it would look 
like if you were the size of an ant? 
Or an amoeba? Wouldn't look like 
it's going anywhere at all. Just a 
bunch of unconnected dots floun
dering off in any old direction. Of 
late some people have looked at 
Student Senate that way. Some 
people have declared that the Sen
ate has taken a general Ho Hum" 
attitude toward its own actions.
I disagree. I must. Because I 
am a member of Student Senate, 
and I can feel it moving. And I can 
see it moving. But maybe you 
can't. Then look:
Senate meeting Sept. 25: Mo
tion passed declaring that since 
"... the disciplinary structure of 
the University has no methods to
deal with faculty and or graduate 
students, we, the Student Senate 
of C-MU, will oppose any disci,Unary action against the partici
pants of the demonstration '
A few minutes later, a commit
tee was formed "... to review dis
cipline on campus in conjunction 
with the Faculty Senate Commit
tee in regards to establishing a 
University-wide code of disci
pline."
No action was taken against the 
demonstrators. Maybe because 
none was due. Maybe because 
someone realized that a fair ac
tion. under existing rules, was an 
impossibility. Something new was 
needed. The committee mention
ed above has met several times, 
both alone and with the Faculty 
Senate. It learned a lot. The fac
ulty won t submit to a uniform disStudendaRf ud irmR sH
P-l Grading Needs Comment
Tartan Language, Style, Reviews Criticized
Editor, The Tartan:
The Tartan as a newspaper, us
ing the English language as its medeim, fails Carnegie-Mellon Uni
versity. The Tartan is a poor ex
hibition of the intellectual and cul
tural awareness of this Univer
sity.
I refer to trite phrases ("sec
ond of all, "third of all," and the 
poor sentence structure that pol
lutes the Tartan in every publica
tion. Sentences like, "It was dis
cussed why many students who 
did not eat the chicken on Tues
day evening were contaminated," 
are common, and the demonstrate 
bad writing techniques: "It has 
a vague reference.
Film, lecture, and concert re
views are weak. The Tartan must 
be culturally deprived, judging 
from the quality of their film re
views. Existentialism is in the 
freshman literature classes, but 
the Tartan ignores works of art 
inspired by existentialism.
The review of Eugene McCar
thy's presentation at the Interna
tional Poetry Forum lacked in
sight of McCarthy's wit. Mere
dith Hall failed to describe Mc
Carthy's true opinions of political 
language and poetic language. 
McCarthy said that the politician 
abused language and the poet gave 
language beauty. McCarthy's pre
sentation was unique because he
TRlN
-WRCTAHUt UVUl* WUAtG* Gft NlTtG*
Editorial and Business OfficesSkibo 103 
Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213Telephone: 682-4557
ERICA BORDEN, PtTKIlOTfOiHTUM
LAAIiTGKU PtTKIl . . . <.........................................................................Jenifer Oigby
EWATfUAA SGfGDUl Sue Cattano
SGfGDTfD PtTKIl Wayne Barron
YUnA PtTKIl Jamie Edlin
NUGKWlUA PtTKIl........................................................................................Chuck Daly
1:IlKA PtTKIlA..............................................................Alan Letzt and Larry Brean
3UA0 PtTKIlA Meredith Hall and Harriet Nadel
-HIKIDlG:H* PtTKIlA William Pence
and Joe Tyler
.IiGC LtVUlKTATfD SGfGDUlA........................Peggy Hermann and Vic Lovuola
YGKTIfGC LtVUlKTATfD SGfGDUl Beverly Noretsky
YUnA 1KGMMb Patricia McDonald, Pam Horner, Sue Shilane, Larry Stirling,
Murray Singer, Meredith Hall, Sara Cooper, Andi Lieberman, and Bar
bara Hobbs.
EWATfUAA 1KGMMb Alina Lao and Mary Lipsett.
1UilUKGlTGC 1KGMMb Janice Herman and Sally Foss.
.G*IWK 1KGMMb Beth Anne Haner, Sharon Morgan, Ralph Pritts, Paul Sny
der, Mark Vogel, Jeff Green, Bob Hanna, and Chuck Daly. 
-HIKIDlG:H* 1KGMMb Jerry Siskind, Eric Werme, Art Werchulz, Joe Rosen,
Marty Bauer, Dan Barnett, Randy Zotter, Jim Call, and Leon Pinkney. 
1:IlKA 1KGMMb Les Kovalik, Jon Swierzewski, Sally Wilson, Nancy Chand
ler, Jim Tomayko, Allan Henderson, and Scott Miller.
ignored his political ideology and 
used his life as material for his 
poems, therefore, presenting him
self as a poet.
The review of the Jam Fac
tory's concert was fair, but re
views are not written to gain pop
ularity with the "in-group" that 
likes that type of music. Tom Da
vis reported his personal reac
tions rather than evaluating the 
Jam Factory's creative and per
formance ability: the aesthetic 
attempt in creation and perform
ance is the concern of the review. 
Unless Tom Davis has studied mu
sic, he should not review a con
cert.
My credentials are the enclos
ed film review, nine years of mu
sical study and performance of 
five instruments, and a limited 
but practical knowledge of the 
English language.
I suggest that the entire staff 
read The Elements of Style by
William Strunk, Jr. and E. B. 
White. Also, words used in essays 
and reports should be printed com
pletely or not used.
Sam McCool 
Freshman. H&SS
Editor, The Tartan:
Last week you published an ar
ticle entitled "Apathetic Senate 
Passes Grading Motion" (Vol. 
69, No. 32) in which you stated 
that "Despite the significance of 
this motion and perhaps the need 
to discuss the details of this rec
ommendation. it was passed withTartan, Not 
Senate, Ho-Hum
Editor, The Tartan:
Last week's article by Murray 
Singer seems to have erroneously 
pinpointed a ho-humness in the 
Student Senate. Whatever apathy 
there is can be directly attributed 
to infection from the one true 
campus source of ho-hummity  
the Tartan.
It is not surprising that there 
was less than a 15 per cent turnout 
in the last student election. The 
Tartans once weekly article is 
minimal at best and the policy of 
lumping together all actions of the 
Senate in one article guarantees 
poor readability. Perhaps the 
problem is that the events in the 
Senate are seldom newsworthy, 
but even Singer's article argued 
against that.
A better liason with the Tartan 
is necessary and more compre
hensive reporting of an issue ori
ented nature is needed to accom
plish this, not, as Singer suggest
ed. more Senate originated publi
city releases.
A publicity release newspaper 
is worse than a newsletter; it is 
ho-hum.
Patrick Cavanagh 
Chairman. Student Senate
out a nod of interest from most 
senators and the meeting quickly 
whithered into extinction."
The Senate's apathy is under
standable. for they know from 
past experience that any pass-fail 
motion which is passed by them 
"quickly whithers into extinc
tion.
The pass-incomplete system 
which I proposed does indeed need 
to be discussed, as you mention
ed, but more important, it needs 
to be implemented without much 
delay. The P-I motion follows 
but before its text is stated I wish 
to announce that this motion will 
not be allowed to whither into ex
tinction. and further, I am willing 
to (publically or privately) des
cribe and defend it.
"We, the Student Senate strong
ly urge that C-MU adopt a pass-in
complete system for any course 
that any student so chooses, by the 
fall of 1970. According to the 
above system, the student who 
chooses the P-I system shall re
ceive either a P grade or an I 
grade. If he receives an I grade 
then he shall have the option to re
peat that course within the next 
three years, whereupon, if he re
ceives a P the second time around, 
the I grade shall be dropped and 
the P grade instated. If, however, 
he receives a second I grade then 
the grade of I shall be changed to 
an F grade, which would remain 
on the students record. He may 
again repeat the course, how
ever."
There exist many implications 
and consequences due to the sys
tems operation. I invite all com
ments and criticisms.
Marcel Weiner
Get Things Started on Parking Facilities!
Editor. The Tartan:
Has the school made any progress on better 
parking facilities recently? I remember at one time 
when surveys were being conducted to determine 
the need for more space. Did anything ever come of 
that. Also may I make the suggestion that since 
more students are now permitted to live off-campus
and therefore may be driving to school, the old fig
ures, if they were in fact obtained, may now be obso
lete and a new survey might be in order?
Perhaps someone reading this will be able to 
help get things started. Even with the More wood 
facilities, the situation is not good.
A Commuter
Alumnus Applauds Change in Tone
Editor. The Tartan:
As a former C-MU student. I remember well the 
days when student activism was at such a low level 
that a demonstration was planned for the hell of it. 
However, it now seems that the tone at Tech has 
changed. It was with great pride that I read of the 
pelting of Strom Thurmond with marshmallows in
Life, Time, etc. If only someone had toasted a few. 
he could have been faced with an integrated bag
gage of hate. At any rate. I was very proud of my 
school. They know who belongs with garbage.
Betsey Palut, A "60 
P.O. B
St. Thomas, U.S. Virgin Islands
Can't You Accept Criticism Without Anger?
Editor. The Tartan
To Tom Davis:
It seems that you are unable to accept criticism 
without getting angry and irrational. Although I 
agree with you that the Tartan could use some help 
instead of just criticism. I want to point out that one 
needn't be an "oracle and Originator of the English 
Language. to have an opinion as to the quality of
someone else's written work. Similarly, one need
nt be a Ph.D. in political science in order to criti
cize some aspect of the government. It is a pity that 
you responded to the criticism in such a juvenile 
manner.
Sincerely, 
Janina Borowska (Physics*

---------------------------------------------------

Friday, February 13, 1970THE TARTANPage 3
More Tributes To Excellence
 Drs. Daryl and Sandra Bern
Being a
by Doug Campbell
 Andrew Carnegie was too re
actionary to even consider hus
band and wife teaching in a de
partment of his college, says 
Daryl Bern, 'and as a result Car
negie-Mellon, unlike most major 
universities, doesn't have a nepo
tism clause to prohibit the hiring 
of a married couple within a sin
gle department. To Daryl Bern 
that is not trivial fact; for both he 
and his wife, Sandy, have earned 
Ph.D.'s in Social Psychology from 
the University of Michigan and 
have decided that as long as they 
are teaching, they will not go any
where unless there are jobs avail
able for both of them.
In a sense, the Bems are an act. 
Their unique professional status 
and their philosophy and practice 
of sexual equality have gained 
them great attention, which they 
respond to well.  We re both bas
ically hams." they say. "it s a 
prerequisite for being a good 
teacher." If asked if they have 
any differences in opinion, they 
answer that she likes broccoli a 
little more than he does, nothing 
else.
But, the Bems' qualifications 
certainly show them to be more 
than an academic vaudeville show. 
Dr. Daryl Bern earned his under
graduate degree in physics at Reed 
College and went on to do graduate 
work in physics at MIT. While at 
MIT he took a course at Harvard 
in race relations and was so in
trigued that his interest switched 
to Social Psychology. He trans
ferred to the University of Michi
gan where he earned his Ph.D. in 
three years, rather than the nor
mal four, five, or six. and then 
came to Carnegie Tech in 1964. 
At Carnegie Tech he taught a bril
liant female student who compiled 
the highest average in the his
tory of Carnegie Tech's Psycholo
gy Department. They married 
(the ceremony took place in Ski
bo. designed and performed by 
themselves i and moved to the Uni
versity of Michigan for three 
years. While there, he worked in 
research and she earned her 
Ph.D. At age 23 Dr. Sandra Bern 
was the youngest psychology Ph.D. 
in the history of the University.
In 1968. they returned to Carne
gie-Mellon for several reasons. 
Naturally the availability of posi
tions for both of them was attrac
tive. But they also felt that the 
quality of the student body, both 
academically and in composition, 
was attractive. And finally, the 
salary they were offered com
pared to those paid in the Harvard 
and Stanford Psychology Depart
ments. (Only in Psychology, which 
is funded by the GSIA, can H&SS 
salaries compare with those of
fered at schools such as Harvard 
and Stanford. But. had the Col
lege of Humanities and Social Sci
ences not been founded, thus fill
ing the great hole in the student 
body, they feel that they would not
Ham Helps Your Teaching
have returned to Carnegie-Mellon.
The Bems consider themselves 
as primarily teachers, not re
searchers, so they perform re
search projects mainly for enjoy
ment. They both have done writ
ing. much of it together. But they 
are most generally associated 
with women's rights movement 
because of their research into the
martial equality, and thier occa
sional radio appearances regard
ing the subject. Daryl has written 
a text on Attitude Change which is 
now being used by the C-MU Psy
chology Department. Their re
search paper on "Training the 
Woman to Know Her Place which 
appears in his book is soon to be 
printed in Psychology Today. San
dy's attitudes and professional 
comeptence cast her as a symbol 
of success to many career concious girls on campus. Ironically, 
she feels that receiving attention 
for this reason has made her much 
more concious of being different 
than she was previously.
StudendaRf ud irmR gH
A marriage of true minds.
--------Professor C. Gordon Bell---------
Teaching Keeps You Honest
by Doug Campbell
His office, a small white cubi
cle in the Porter Hall addition, has 
a large green blackboard which
nearly covers an entire wall, 
chalked with complex diagrams. 
The bookshelves, tables, chairs, 
desk, and windowsill are prob
ably underneath the binders of 
computer texts, loose sheets of 
computer design diagrams, and 
scatterings of computer parts. 
This is the office of C. Gordon 
Bell, assistant professor of com
puter science at Carnegie-Mellon.
He earned his undergraduate 
and graduate degrees from MIT 
in Electrical Engineering and 
spent the year after graduation 
(1957-58) as a Fulbright Scholar 
to Australia, then returned to MIT 
as a research assistant. At that 
time he chose to concern himself 
with computer design because he 
felt, and still feels, that compu
ters are far more fascinating than 
anything else he could build with 
an E.E. Masters. From 1960 un
til the summer of 1966, when he 
came to Carnegie Tech. he work
ed in computer design with a small 
Digital Computer manufacturer 
who still uses his designs as the 
basis of their line and for whom 
he still acts as a consultant.
Professor Bell left pure re
search because he felt he was be
coming too removed from the use 
of data and was growing tired of 
production problems. He also felt 
that he needed a change of envi
ronment in order to get a feeling 
of how others were doing things, 
so that he could learn more about 
computers. He chose to come to 
Carnegie Tech because of the 
presence of Professors Perils. Ne
well. and Simon, three men whose 
talents he respects a great deal. 
He s quite satisfied at C-MU be
cause he feels he's getting a good 
mixture of research and teaching, 
but finds the pressures to publish 
and gain promotion as great as 
the pressures he knew in indus
try. He says quite frankly that he
is a professional researcher and 
his major interest is in his re
search, but he does not consider 
teaching as totally without merit. 
"Teaching keeps you honest, he 
says, "you have to be sure you 
know what you're talking about. 
Very often students are responsi
ble for stimulating my own re
search.
Professor Bell wants to give 
to his students an idea of what is 
current in his field so that they 
can go out and take any related 
field, subject, or book and build on 
it without help. But given a choice, 
Professor Bell would prefer teach
ing graduate students to teaching 
undergraduates; he enjoys the 
counseling of graduate students in 
their dissertation and research, 
as it provides him with the oppor
tunity to work with data which he 
missed while in industry. "1 dont 
think graduate students should be 
simply lab technicians, he says. 
He cites the abolishment of course 
requirements in the computer sci
ence graduate program, a result 
of computer science student de
mands, as evidence that computer 
science people are not as uncon
cerned with academic policies as 
many people think they are.
Professor Bell maintains that 
given the choice between subjec
tion to machine organization or 
human organization, he would pre
fer the machines. "Machines. he 
says, "give the individual much 
more freedom in society They are
not only more efficient as organ
izers, but they also provide ev
eryone with equal access to data; 
under human organization the 
hand records more slowly and the 
power goes to the bureaucrat who 
knows the data and does not ne
cessarily have to share it with 
anyone else. India has a great 
deal of humanity, but no ma
chines, and therefore, no organ
ization.
"Another good thing about com
puters is that you have somebody 
honest. If you know something 
well, if you really know what you 
are saying, then you can have a 
very good listener in a computer 
who only demands that you follow 
a fixed set of rules. This is in di
rect contrast to the language of 
the Liberal Arts, which can be 
very vague and of little preci
sion.
The fruits of some of Professor 
Bells research have been reaped 
partially in his recent book which 
is a text reference on Computer 
Structure. He admits great shame 
at the time he wasted on the neces
sary and time-consuming clerical 
work involved in writing such as 
bibliography, footnoting, and 
checking on the interrelation of 
facts. He fancies that in the fu
ture when he has the time, he will 
write a program which will com
puterize all these chores and will 
act as a great boon to writing 
books. "It is, he assures,  quite 
possible 
Professor C. Gordon Bell

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4THE TARTANFriday, February 13, hcol
War Hurts School Lunch Plan
Hungry children sit in class and think of food and don't learn much. 
Children who dont learn much in school usually grow up to be unskilled 
workers. As skill levels needed in the labor force rise steadily, the un
skilled worker is less and less able to get a good enough job to keep him
self above the poverty level. By hindering children's education, the pov
erty level. By hindering childrens education, the poverty of today helps 
create the poverty of tomorrow.
One way to help break this cycle is to feed the children. The Fed
eral Government has a program which provides lunches cheaply to 
school children in poverty areas. Because of the Vietnam war and gen
eral spending cutbacks, it can only pay about half the cost of this pro
gram; the other half must be shared by the children and the local school 
board.
This program is needed in 44 poverty area elementary schools in 
Pittsburgh. The Pittsburgh School Board has funds to operate it in only 
eight of them; outside sources have provided enough for two more. To 
raise the $170,000 (at $5,000 per school) that is needed to fund the pro
gram in the other 34 schools, the Pittsburgh Peace Coalition (PPC) 
and the National Welfare Rights Organization (NWRO) have jointly 
named Feb. 15-22 Hunger Week. During Hunger Week, citizens 
are asked to give up lunch and donate the money to the children of Pitts
burgh. The fund-raising effort will be concentrated on college campuses 
and at suburban shopping centers where the people are.
PPC is taking part in Hunger Week as part of its campaign to point 
out how the war results in misallocation of funds and resources. The 
$170,000 represents about one-twentieth of the cost of an F-lll. It could
be used, instead, to improve the lives and chances for learning of thou
sands of Pittsburgh school children. The tragedy of the war must not be 
allowed to criplle the lives of these children.
To keep the cost of the lunches low. churches near the school have 
agreed to donate their kitchen facilities for food preparation. The cost 
of a single lunch is 52 cents. The Federal share is 25 cents. The child 
pays 10 cents, leaving 17 cents for the School Board. At that rate, each 
$5 collected will provide lunches for a child for six weeks. As each $5.- 
000 is collected it will start the program in another school. In some 
areas, volunteers will prepare the food which will cut the cost even fur
ther.
Carnegie-Mellon students can help in this drive in several ways. 
First, of course, they can contribute money at the tables which will be 
set up in Skibo and Baker Hall during the week. Also, volunteers are 
needed to man the tables on the campus. Anyone who can man tables on 
campus should call Bart Farris at 621-2600. ext. 471. or at 521-2576.
Volunteers are urgently needed to man the booths in the shopping 
centers. Another community group had promised to staff the booths, 
but they pulled out at the last minute. Conservative elements in the 
group refused to be associated with in organization so full of people 
with long hair as PPC. Volunteers are especially needed on the Satur
day afternoons of Feb. 14 and 21, because more people shop then. 
Anyone who can go to the shopping centers can call Nancy Gordon at 
621-2600, ext. 359. or at 683-7665. or Tom Morton at 621- 
2600. ext. 533, or 661-9573. Transportation will be provided if enough 
people call and offer rides.
,CTU
NEWYORK TO LONDON 
SUMMER VACATION TRIPS 
Round Trip  $169
Now Filling  Small Deposit and 
Payments  Send for Free Details 
Student Globe Roomers 
Box 575, Hollywood, Flo. 33021
Ocfeputer
RCAs many- tentacled computer does time sharing plus regular computing. 
Its a generation ahead of its major competitor.
Once there were only monster 
computers that did big batch 
jobs like payrolls.
Then came the whirling 
dervishes of time sharing that 
let a lot of people work at once. 
Now theres a new kind of 
creature that does time sharing 
and batch work together. So 
lots of people can use it  
efficiently.
Its the Spectra 70/46.The 
Octoputer.Theres nothing 
else quite like it on earth 
or under the sea.
The Octoputers arms are long 
and strong. It sits in the 
middle of your company and 
reaches helping hands out in 
all directions. Suddenly, your 
company works harder. More 
of your people use the com
puter-solving more problems, 
finding more facts, writing 
more programs.
And it does your big batch 
jobs in its spare time.
The Octopu ter does a real 
armload of work for a hand
ful of change. Check the 
bills from your time
sharing services.
See if its not more efficient to 
do the same work on your own 
Octopu ter. And get batch 
processing, too. One 
more thing.The Octo
pu ter concentrates 
on remote computing 
because thats what 
youre going to need 
thats where the 
industry is going.
We got there first
because communications is what 
RCA is famous for. Itll keep us
ahead of our competition. 
It can keep you ahead 
of yours. Step up to the 
Octoputer and shake 
hands hands hands 
hands hands hands...
It GilCOMPUTERS
For career information visit your College Placement Office.
FROSH CAMP 
AND ORIENTATION 
Applications for Chairman of 
the Freshman Camp and Ori
entation Committee are due 
in Skibo 103 by Friday, Feb. 
20. To apply, just submit a 
personal resume and any 
ideas you have about camp 
and orientation.

IF YOU HAVE A PROFESSOR YOUD LIKE US TO PAY TRIBUTE TO 
SEND (his or her) 
NAME TO THE TARTAN 
ROOM 50 
SKIBO
The ah rtn : mhunhs lE mofoSony mt.stt
Doctor of Divinity degrees are issued 
by Universal Life Church, along with 
a 10-lesson course in the procedure 
of setting up and operating a non
profit organization. For a free will 
 offering of $20 we will send you, 
immediately, all 10 lessons in one 
package along with the D.D. certifi
cate.
UNIVERSAL LIFE CHURCH 
BOX 6575 
JtOLLYWOOD, FLORIDA 33021
"The 
year's 
best *2 
comedy!
-SATURDAY REVIEW
A FRANKOVICH PRODUCTION 
FOR COLUMBIA RELEASE

---------------------------------------------------

"Pierrot lo Fou
Friday, February 13, 1970THE TART ANPage 5
FF
by Sam McCool
Jean Luc Godard's film. Pierrot la Fou, presents the rebellion of 
two individuals unsatisfied with their secure adventureless. and unintensive lives. Marianne wants Ferdinand to be Pierrot la Fou. the gang
ster. Ferdinand desires a spiritual realization of himself and their re
lationship. The two reject security, search for adventure, and choose 
situations to create themselves; to involve themselves so intensely that 
they stand naked against bullets, fate, and hell.
The film gives life an artistic form. It makes living a minute to 
minute creative impulse. It is a canvas, bizarre with unreasoning plan
ned chaos, shocking the viewer out of tomorrow's early bus to office 
and onto the street, screaming, T'm a man. I'm a man. I'm a man. and 
I can't help but defy every rule, manner, and law to discover my na
ture." If the film expresses the author's beliefs. Godard wants man to 
be creative and original and not to fear breaking any law to achieve 
his satisfaction with life.
Godard removes Marianne and Ferdinand from people who use 
advertisement cliches to communicate to writing a novel a new novel. 
The two become authors, creating the story, the plot, the mood, the 
theme, and the climaxes. But they are also the characters. Their new 
novel is written by its characters instead of an omniscient author.
They travel in stolen cars fueled by stolen gasoline. They eat and 
drink by telling stories to other customers for moneythey force them
selves to produce or be busted, and with no security. They suddenly be
come part of a ganster show in which they are the heroes, the winners 
until hell is summoned to consume them in their madness. Godard must 
feel that man cannot live long this way and meets a tragic end in his ar
tistic life.
Godard shows an existentialistic desire for man to control situa
tions, the occurances that so often affect the man instead. That Mari
anne and Ferdinand did live the events of the film can be debated, but 
even if the film is just a book they write, the book demonstrates their 
desire to fashion their lives.
"Do you have any choices?" will be the theme of the Alternative Ca
reers Workshop to be held on Saturday, February 14, in the Staff Dining 
Room of Skibo.
CIT and AMS students and Faculty will explore alternatives to be
coming part of the large corporations and defense contractors. Such areas 
as biotechnology, urban planning, and pollution control will be discussed, 
as well as the possibility of effecting change from within the corporate 
structure. Another possible area of discussion is life styles unrelated to 
present norms.
A MS and CIT students and faculty who are concerned about the pres
ent state of society are encouraged to participate in this workshop.
Bems
StudendaRf pbuy irmR MH
The Bems enjoy teaching under
graduates, most especially sopho
mores ( Freshmen ask if they can 
they be excused to go to the bath
roomtoo high schoolish. '), ra
ther than graduate students. To 
them undergraduate work is edu
cation; graduate work is training. 
They feel that course content is 
to a great degree irrelevant. What 
they want their students to gain 
from them is no more than a solid 
grasp of some of the basic ideas 
they present (e.g., awareness of 
analytical view of human beha
vior. But thev do think it most lmtT- vrAARb. Iu wuAf 
ikueumbr,k. tuy,Renenud
The C-MU Art Gallery is spon
soring a photography competition 
for C-MU students and faculty. 
The prizes of $50 for first, $25 
for second, and $15 for third place, 
as well as two honorable mentions 
of $5 each will be awarded Satur
day evening, Feb. 28. at the gal
lery.
Each competitor will shoot a 
20-picture sequence which the 
gallery will have developed and 
enlarged into a 16x20 inch 
contact sheet. Each contact sheet 
will be judged on the impact of the 
20 picture sequence as a single 
entity, not on the merit of each 
shot individually.
The photographer can tell a
story develop a desing, shoot a 
microscopic sequence or photo
graph an x-rav detraction. The 
possibilities are innumberable.
To enter, a participant must go 
to Skibo desk between 8:30 a.m. 
Thursday, Feb. 19. and 2 p.m., 
Sunday, Feb. 22. (The desk is 
open 8;30 to 5.) There he will pay 
a five dollar entry fee and will re
ceive a roll of film with 20 ex
posures. The entrant must return 
the film to Skibo desk within 48 
hours of the time he enters. Only 
50 rolls of film will be available.
The film will then be processed 
by the gallery and the contact 
sheets will be judged by people not 
affiliated with the gallery and who
will not be aware of the photo
graphers identity.
The public will be invited to at
tend the awards presentation. 
Also, the contact sheets will be on 
sale for $10, of which the parti
cipants keeps $6. All contact 
sheets not sold will be returned to 
the photographers.
portant that they teach their stu
dents ^iow to handle information 
processes in general so that they 
can arrive at decisions and gain a 
perspective towards knowledge. 
They believe that teaching is very 
much style, and both feel that, for 
them, the best relationship with 
students is one of a little distance. 
They teach most often through in
formal lectures, lectures which 
may be interrupted at any time. 
They deliver information with 
great excitement, as if they had 
just found out this information 
themselves and were sincerely 
eager to share it with othersand 
use examples effectively in mak
ing their points. The Bems are 
very open and frank about their 
personal lives, never hesitating to 
use themselves as examples. And 
they try to develop this same at
titude in their students.
They regret that circumstances 
force many students into college 
who don t want to be. or don't be
long there at the moment. These 
they call "experimental stu
dents." the students who get into
(and out of. and into and out of, 
etc. ... things such as vegetari
anism. Alan Watts, Zen. Astrolo
gy. Hard Drugs, etc. . . . and who 
often have a strong streak of antiintellectualism.
The Bems are satisfied with the 
Psychology Department. They 
have been offered jobs elsewhere 
but appreciate the small classes 
here, and the promotion policy of 
anyone who does well gets pro
moted. Their department is rel
atively free of the in-fighting and 
hostilities common to many de
partments. They attribute the 
growing popularity of Psychology 
as a major to the fact that is has 
the only research department in 
the New College. But they point 
out that the effects of the Vietnam 
War are hitting home as govern
ment grants for research are off 
some 50 per cent in the last year.
comingsenior bonq uet 
LnonohSi 
,hs AndCtSn 
rhftsSgtSn
PctunohSi
:fFocFvct
Ohe
MS
ARovh H'V
MARTHA'S VINEYARD 
Summer 1970 
Student EMPLOYMENT 
OPPORTUNITIES.
Hundreds of jobs! Detailed 
descriptions including restaurants, hotels, shops. SEND $2.00.
APPLIED RESEARCH ASSOC., 
Dept. 51. P.O. Box 3903. 
New Haven, Conn. 06525
ATTENTION: GUYS 8 GALS 
Already 6300 guys and 5200 gals from 
PITT, CMU and DUQ. have joined 
COMP-DATE-MATE.
It is not too late to join. Write:
COMP-DATE-MATE 
P. O. Box 11203 Pittsburgh, Pa. 15238
!SALE!
at BROTHERHOOD
4 Market PI. (downtown) 
212 Oakland Ave. (by Pitt.) 0/ THURS..FRI., SAT. Feb. 12.13,&I4 20  off or better on EVERYTHING
A  jiv AJi\A' i#i ^ U( Jvf J i\ 'Jl ujn
tJfD njn W A. ****?,*W ej
T2 T
) I1VJR tlJts- ft** 1 
(jtu. *A J  iwc
5% of the take goes to support "Hunger Week" Feb. 17-22 sponsored by the PGH. PEACE COALITION for information call 683*2669

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6THE TARTANFriday, February 13, 1970
Senate Petitions Out iuAAaenud ICUzkT'd BCe
Offices open for election:
President of Student Government;
President of Academic Affairs Board;
Director of Activities Board;
Independent Male Commuter Representative to Executive Council;
Graduate Student Representative to Executive Council;
Student Senate seats in all constituencies, and
College Council seats in H&SS and CIT.
Petitions are available in Skibo 103 now. They are due in Skibo 103 
by 4 p.m. on Feb. 24.
YIKUb -TiKWlUA Gft AKGKUmUfKA IM fIK mIlU KHGf 50 nIltA nTCC RU lU
qWUAKUt MlIm KHU iGftTtGKUA KIl 1KWtUfK 1UfGKU Gft CICCUDU CIWfiTC AUGKA. 
-TiKWlUA Gft AKGKUmUfKA MlIm mGjIl iGftTtGKUA nTCC RU GllGfDUt TftTVTt
WGCC*. IM G iGftTtGKU nTAHUA2 HU mG* GllGfDU KI RU :HIKIDlG:HUt R* KHU 
Tartan AKGMM.
IlOAMN:IY aNM:D
WOMAN AND MANPOWER
NEEDED TO HELP PUT ON A
(PITTSBURGH KANGAROOS vs. WASHINGTON CONSPIRACY)
to be held February 21st. Representing the Pittsburgh Kan
garoos will be members of the anti-war movement. Repre
senting the Washington Conspiracy will be Nixon, Agnew, 
Daley, Hoffman (Julius) and many other favorites. Planning, 
organizing, and rehearsal meeting will be this Sunday, 
February 15th, 2:00 - 5:00 p.m., Wherrett Room, Skibo.
Would You Like To Become A Minister?
ORDINATION is without question and for life. LEGAL in all 
50 states and most foreign countries. Perform legal mar
riages, ordinations, and funerals. Receive discounts oti/some 
fares. Over 265,000 ministers have already been ordained. 
Ministers credentials and license sent; an ordainment certifi
cate for framing and an ID card for your billfold. We need 
your help to cover mailing, handling, and administration 
costs. Your generous contribution is appreciated.
ENCLOSE A FREE WILL OFFERING 
Write to: UNIVERSAL LIFE CHURCH 
BOX 8071 
FT. LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA 33314
SENATE
S tudendaRf pbuy irmR xH
ciplinary code. But they don't 
want the students to administer 
(heir own code. We dont think any 
other way would work. So we re 
having a meeting. Student Senate 
and faculty. Next Tuesday at 4 
p.m. in the Ballroom.
Were going to try to get it to
gether. If you watch what happens,
you may see for yourself that Sen
ate does move. But if you watch 
too closely, you probably wont 
see anything at all. Stand back a 
little. Take a bigger, wider view. 
Look at the whole line, Murray.
Vincent J. Misitano, Jr.
Student Senator
On Saturday, Feb. 14, a University-Communitv Teach-In on 
environmental pollution, spon
sored by the YWCA, will be pre
sented in the Common Facilities 
Building. The Teach-In, design
ed to alert Pittsburgh residents 
to the increasingly dangerous 
effects of the various types of 
pollution, will begin at 10 a.m. 
and run through 5 p.m.
Events scheduled for the day
long symposium include two 
guerilla theatre skits, a number 
of speakers and panel discus
sions, a slide film presentation, 
and finally, a Multi-Media'' 
show. All events will focus on 
important aspects of the total 
pollution threat to community 
health.
Beginning at 10 a.m., students 
from the Drama Dept, of Carne
gie-Mellon University will pre
sent a Guerilla Theatre skit deal
ing with the sociological aspects 
of environmental pollution.
Following the Guerilla Thea
tre presentation, a panel dis
cussion will convene to consider 
the problem of environmental 
education. Participants on the 
panel will include Dr. David 
Arev, Asst. Professor of Geogra
phy; Dr. Julian Andelman, As
soc. Professor of Water Chem
istry - Graduate School of Pub
lic Health; Dr. C. A. Tryon, Di
rector of the Pymatuming Lab
oratory of Ecology;. Dr. Roland 
Seymour, Asst. Professor of Bio
logy  Ecology Group; and Dr. 
Maurice Shapiro, Professor of 
Environmental Health - Health 
Engineering. The panel discus
sion will, of course, encourage 
audience participation.
At 11 a.m., Thomas J. Horrocks, a member of the Alle
gheny County Air Pollution Ad
visory Committee, will present 
a slide film study of pollution in 
Pittsburgh entitled The True 
Story of Air Pollution in Alle
gheny County." Mr. Horrocks is 
also chairman of the Environ
mental Pollution Committee of 
the Swisshelm Park Civics Club
and a member of GASP, Group 
Against Smog and Pollution.
Afternoon activities will com
mence at 1 p.m. At that time 
Dr. William Coffman, Asst. Pro
fessor of Biology  Ecology 
Group, will speak on Contra
ception and Conservation. In 
his presentation Coffman will 
focus on the relationship be
tween the problems of popula
tion explosion and the prolifer
ation of environmental pollution.
Following Coffman's presenta
tion, the CMU drama students 
will play a second Guerilla 
Theatre skit.
At 2 p.m.. Dr. Jack Shubert, 
Professor of Radiation Health, 
Graduate School of Public 
Health, will discuss The Total 
Pollution Problem. Dr. Schu
bert's past research has been 
instrumental in alerting the Uni
ted States Congress to the harm
ful effects of cyclamates. Dr. 
Schubert has personally address
ed the Congress on this subject.
StudendaRf ud irmR 7H
Ski Club Trips to Seven Springs
The activities of the Ski Club are in full swing 
with the addition of the latest snowfall. The club has 
planned an eveing trip to Seven Springs for every 
Thursday night while the snow lasts. The cost is 
$5.50 for transportation and skiing between 6-11 p.m.
For those interested in trips of longer duration,
there are a few openings left for the spring vaca
tion trip to Killington, Vt., one of tlje finest ski areas 
in the East. The cost is about $100 including lodging 
and two meals a day, lifts, lessons, and transporta
tion. Rentals are available. For information, write 
the Ski Club, Room 103, Skibo, or call Joh Gell, 
521-7270.
STUDENT - FACULTY - SENATE MEETINGTUESDAY
-
1 Aa:aP l, 9OM7PNAMaY :mmNPAA
1 mMAI9AAMlO l, I:09A IlmP
SKIBO BALLROOM4:00 P.M.
-------------------  qO.W
-WRCTACRH
621-WRCT
SUNDAY NIGHTS, 10:30, with Steve Harris
OpenLine! goes beyond mere factual reporting. OpenLine! brings the specialists and the 
newsmakers to the air, live, for questioning by you. OpenLine! calls taken at 621-wrct or 
01 in Morewood, 10:30- 12 every Sunday ev ening. This week's guest will be:
David Marshall, professional economist and Head Coordinator of the Environmental Teach-In.
WRCT NEWS/9
GRADUATE STUDENTS
Graduate fee settlement for tuition, room, board charges, etc., for 
the spring semester, 1970, will be held February 16th and 17th from 
8:30a.m. to 4:30 p.m. In addition, the Cashier's Office will be open February 
17th from 6:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. Graduate students will receive a copy of 
their account which is to be settled on those dates. In the event a graduate 
student has not received a copy of his account by February 12, 1970, he 
should contact the Cashier's Office.
Those graduate students receiving stipends and/or paychecks from the 
University and who desire a deferred payment plan will be required to sign 
a promissory note authorizing the University to take deductions in equal 
monthly installments - the last deduction to be made in May, 1970.
Those graduate students who do not receive a stipend and/or paycheck 
from the University and who desire a deferred payment plan will also be 
required to sign a promissory note for monthly payments. There is no service 
charge for deferring payment.
The Largest Selection of 
Imported and Domestic 
Tobaccos & Pipos in the City
UNM:N UlGD
3725 Forbes Si. Ml-6045
NrenudrAA. f1RbenCRf in,R0
The ah rtn : 
mhunhs lE mofoSony mt.stt
Doctor of Divinity dtgrt are issued 
by Universal Life Church, along with 
a 10-lesson course in the procedure 
of setting up and operating a non* 
profit organization. For a free will 
offering qf $20 we will send you, 
immediately, all 10 lessons in one 
package along with the D.D. certifi
cate.
UMIVERSAL LIFE CHURCH 
BOX 6575 
HOLLYWOOD, FLORIDA 33021
UtnettS IcFiiti hs Fn AndCy UstFR
-SCOTTY'SOPEN TO SERVE YOU 
24 HOURS A DAY
391S FORBES AVENUE
. . . and . .
ROUTE I, NORTH OF ETNA 7*1t PENN AVENUE

---------------------------------------------------

Sex Information Forum
Tuesday, February 17, 1970THE TARTANPage 7
Recently a group of third-year 
medical students from the Univer
sity of Pittsburgh have formed a 
speaker's bureauthe Medical 
Student Sex Information Forum.
The purpose of the organization 
is two-fold: to provide authorita
tive information in the area of hu
man sexuality for requesting lay 
groups in the community and, to 
refer individuals with specific 
problems to appropriate special
ists. Michael Aptman, president 
of the Medical Student Sex Infor
mation Forum, explained that 
through working in clinics with so 
many people, We realize how ig
norant people are about human 
sexuality. People just do not un
derstand the importance of sex. 
There exist so many pre-conceived notions and back-room the
ories. One of the largest problems 
in so many marriages is sex and 
the lack of actually understand
ing the body and its functions. We 
want to get to people now and help 
them. More important, even, is 
working with high school groups 
so that they dont have to learn in 
the back-room.
We try not to deal with individ
uals, but would prefer to refer per
sonal problems. Our real function 
is to inform people. The suggest
ed approach is a formal presenta
tion including audio-visual aides, 
followed by a question-and-answer 
period from the floor. We pre
fer speaking with mixed groups, 
men and women, of about 15-50 
participants, continued 
Aptman. And we request that all 
members of the group know each 
other previous to the meeting so 
that discussion can be uninhibited 
and casual. In addition, counse
lors are available after the discus
sion for those persons with speci
fic problems. v >_
Ther-e-are two basie-sets of fea
tures. the first concerning the, hu
man sexual response and tfie sec
ond dealing with concption, con
traception, and abortion. The 
speakers are prepared to discuss 
related subjects if sufficient time 
is given in advance to prepare a 
presentation.
This particular group of medi
cal students has studied with Dr. 
Ronald Chez, professor of Obste
trics and gynocology at the Uni
versity of Pittsburgh and practic
ing doctor at Magee Womens 
Hospital. As well as receiving spe
cial training in the areas of hu
man sexuality, all of the speakers 
are clinically experienced.
Through news of the Medical 
Student Information Forum has 
not yet penetrated the C-MU campus, responses from other cam
pus" and community groups have 
been great. The forum has pre
sented their program with com
plete success to a variety of 
groups.
Although there is no charge for 
these services, a $10 fee for each 
session is asked to defray the costs 
of audiovisual material and mail
ing. If there are special problems 
with funding, appropriate ar
rangements can be made.
Inquiries can be made by call
ing the Dean's Office at the Uni
versity of Pittsburgh School of 
Medicine, 683-1620, ext. 337, or by 
writing: Medical Student Sex In
formation Forum, Office of the 
Associate Dean, University of 
Pittsburgh School of Medicine, 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213.
Artichoke
StudendaRf pbuy irmR M H
chose to repeatedly play back on 
tape, the main pioblem with at 
least the first halt of the play 
was that the many layers of the 
collage were not constructed so 
as to give off an\ one emotional 
impression. It was impossible 
to set up any sort ot transition or 
piogression of feelings when 
the diiectoi never molded his di
verse sounds and actions into one
Tactical Police?
YIn Tf 1KGMM CGMUKUlTG 
TPF THURSDAY FORUM TOPIC
Does Pittsburgh need a Tacti
cal Police Force? If so, how 
should it be used? Why is it used 
in black areas of the city and often 
on hand when large groups of stu
dents gather at a public event? 
What kind of men should serve on 
it and what kind of training should 
they have? What kind of police 
service do black areas of the city 
really need?
The questions and others will be 
discussed at this week's Thurs
day Noon Forum at James Givner. president of Forever Action 
Together, a Homewood-Brushton 
citizens ^group. Mr. Givner has 
been critical of the Tactical Police 
Force in the past and has some 
specific ideas for better police 
service in Pittsburgh.
The Forum now takes place in 
the Staff Cafeteria on the lower 
level of Skibo. Anyone may bring 
lunch right in from the main cafe
teria. The program begins at 12:30 
and adjourns by 1:30.
NIXONON STAGE! 
IN PERSON!
EV&Mdne l$ MM 
ictT* to see
"tOU'RE A GOODMAN CHARLIE 0ftOkr
BOXyR
L IH7 fcy Unite# Fcetuie me.
ARTHUR WHtTVlAW * GfNf PPftKIW
VOtffitAftOPMAN CHARLIE -UAtV
SPECIAL STUDENT PRICE
50% Discount
(With Student I.D.)
GOOD ALL PERFORMANCES
NOW THRU FEBRUARY 22
tVENINGS TUESDAY ttini SATURDAY 1:30 P.M.
MATfbttS: WED., 2 P.M.SAT., 2:30 P.M  UN.. 3 P.M.
Ptitions 
For Student Government
Elections
Available Now 
In Skibo 103
image 01 even a series of imag
es. The many random spasms of 
activity lacked shape, control, 
and intensity, consequently the 
play never became involving.
The second halt of the play, 
howevei. at least began to come 
alive. The gimmicks began to 
work when all the lights went 
ott and the king kept all of the 
actors at attention with a flash
light. He bore all the malignance 
ot a drill sargeant as he slowly 
moved the flashlight within in
ches of then eyes. The scene at 
the end of the play also gripped 
the audience when the overly 
intellectual estranged student 
type took the picture of those 
who lived in his apartment 
building. The intensity of the
student's face and the mechan
ical impersonal use of the cam
era turned his models off and 
with the single reverberating 
click of the machine, each walk
ed away. At tne end. the au
dience begins to share the para
noic. estranged loneliness of 
the student as the dreary dulling 
sound of rain comes from the 
omnipresent tape recordei.
But the best thing by far 
about Reichman's venture into 
new progressive theatre, is that 
at times he captures the actual 
vibrations of existence. As all of 
the actors are sitting around on 
chairs and stools, they respond 
instinctively to the sound and 
implications of -what some one 
is saying, rather than to the actual words he chose to use. For 
instance, one person having just 
been rejected by group one goes 
to group two. and as he furtive
ly asks his question again, group 
two shakes its head no. Group 
two is not answering the ques
tion so much as they are join
ing group one in putting the per
son down.
As a whole the production 
just manages to be acceptable. 
Those who saw Reichman's fust 
play. "Nocturnes will prob
ably be dissappointed. but to 
those who care to support ex
perimental theatre, and to those 
who have nothing better to do. 
I recommend that you see "Naga Uta ".
SOUPS ON
l*GflN PPfKIRROUfi
THURSDAY, MARCH 5
CHEMISTRY
ENGINEERING
MATHEMATICS
If your major Is one of the above, you are Invited to dfset career opportunities 4th
the producer of over 500 convenience food products under the names of Pepperidge 
Farm, Swanson, V-8, Franco-Amerlcan, Bounty and Campbell's. These positions Th 
on our corporate staff, located In Camden, N.J.
Arrange an interview with your Placement Office and discover the

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8THE TART ANTuesday, February 17, 1970
CMU Cagers Top Allegheny, 63-59
The Tartans' patented second 
halt come-from-behind rally fin
ally succeeded as the CMU five 
topped Allegheny Wednesday 
63-59. This was the third win 
for the Tartans in fourteen deci
sions while the Gators remained 
winless.
The Tartans got off to a slow 
start but the hot hands of Bob 
Brown and Bob Grazzini kept 
Tech within striking distance in 
the first half. Meanwhile. Alle
gheny displayed good shooting 
and a balanced scoring attack to 
lead by as much as six points.
Early in the second half, the 
CMU rebounding advantage be
came an important factor as the 
Tartans began to get many sec
ond. third and fourth shots.
When Browm hit a jumper at 
15:20. the Tartans took a 39-38 
lead. Bill Weborg came off the 
bench to help shoot the Tartans 
in front by nine then they coast
ed the rest of the way for the 
win.
The next Tech home game is 
tomorrow night at 8:15 p.m. 
when Marietta will invade the 
Skibo gym. Then the Tartans 
hit the road for the weekend tor 
back to back night games 
against Case and Western Re
serve  which almost sounds like 
a team travelling to Pittsburgh 
for tw7o games with Carnegie 
and Mellon.
Basketball Schedule
C-MUOpponent
67Westminster73
70Grove City98
70St. Vincent74
73Oberlin82
71Geneva67
67W&J74
68Denison77
84St. Vincent74
63Estminster65
56Pitt72
55Denison64
72Waynesburg75
Feb. 11 at Allegheny 
Feb. 18Marietta 
Feb. 20 at Case 
Feb. 21 at W. Reserve 
*Feb. 23Waynesburg 
*Feb. 25Geneva 
?Feb. 28-Pitt 
March 3 at Thiel 
*March 4 at W&J
*Also JV Game.
GlKGfUKKUA WTf 3lt
The girl s basketball team won 
its third straight at Chatham 47- 
28. The Tech girls' team-work 
was noticeable in the even scor
ing: Paula Vergith led with 17 
points. Nancy Chandler follow
ed with 15. Linda Hood 9. and 
Carol Joseph 6.
Tech took the lead immedi
ately after theopening jump 
with several quick baskets and 
the Chatham press was not ef
fective against the quick plays. 
Although the Chatham for
wards were dangerous, they did 
not score as well as they could 
have due to the defensive work 
of Karen Wise and Mary Bookwalter.
G:OaPm
ATHLETIC TRAINER for 
VARSITY ATHLETICS
High School Experience
?
Contacts 
RAYMOND E. HAYNES 
Gym 102
TARTANSportS
LARRY BREAN^M LETZT 
EDITORS
I.M. REVIEW
BULLETS LEAGUE
SAE A defeated the 
Shrinks, 60-28 as Aber scored 24 
points for the winners. Bugels 
21 points led ATO to a 57-15 
win over PKT Gold. 4E then 
beat PKT 55-15, as Michael scor
ed 21 points. Kappa Sigma edg
ed ATO in overtime 44-42 led 
by Kuhnel chalked up 15. In an
other tough battle, SAE defeat
ed TDP 42-34. Swierzewski led 
all scorers with 17 points for 
SAE.
CMUs Bill Weborg (32) and Bill Abraham battle St. Vincent play
er for rebound in action earlier this season. The Tartans won their 
third game on Saturday, 63-59, over Allegheny.
Photo by JERRY SISKIND
Basketball Statistics
CMUG F... .Pts.ALLEGHENYGF... .Pts.
Cotter2 0-24Stup'nsky52-212Abraham2 2-46Howald60-112Gruzzini4 4-712Miller34-410Bt owTn12 1-125Rosenthal41-19VonLind'n0 0-00Rohr10-02Weborg6 2-314Dansro41-19Stobbe0 2-32Trenkle21-35Totals26 11-2063Totals259-1259
Halftime:Allegheny 34. CMU
34.
FG shooting:CMU 34 percent.Officials: PeteGallo.JoeFruAllegheny 48 per centber
Rifle Team Shooting For
First Place In WPIRL
It seems like wanning teams 
at CMU went out with the 1937 
Notre Dame game. Perhaps if 
one looked at the stalwart little 
team of trigger men. whose 
home field is the third basement 
of "Maggie Murph" he would 
get a different picture.
Last Wednesday night. Coach 
Rummel gathered the squad, told 
them how much hed like to win 
and then drove off to meet Pitt's 
Panthers. After the smoke had 
cleared. Tech walked away with 
a record high team score. 1318. 
and a first place berth shared 
with the Panthers.
This was not the first time the 
Tartans had broken 1300 this 
season. Their meet with Clairion 
last November saw the Riflemen 
post the previous record of 1306.
The Saturday before last, the 
Tech shooters met Indiana at 
home and were defeated 1315 
to 1279. This evened the score 
between CMU and IUP. We had 
topped them in the first match 
in what proved to be a real 
squeaker since the total score, 
and the total standing scores 
were tied, but Tech won with an 
8 point kneeling advantage. This 
match had its high points too as 
Wray Paul, the astounding fresh
man shooter put up the match 
high with an amazing 276.
Even though the team is now 
tied with Indiana for second 
place, theystill have an excel
lent chance to take first place in 
the WPIRL. The Tartans have 
suffered three losses so tarthe recent one to Indiana, and
early defeats this season to Pitt 
and to Duquesne. They have 
won the other seven league 
matches beating Indiana. Pitt, 
and Clarion at least once, and 
often going to record lengths to 
do so.
This past Saturday. CMU met 
Penn State in then annual non
league match. Although the 
Tartans lost, as expected, they 
posted a new record high for 
the team, a 1326. Freshman. 
Wry Paul shot an even more as
tounding 286 (that's an all-Am
erican type score i. and senior 
Fran O'Donnell, who's been hav
ing his troubles this season, scor
ed a 273.
If they can continue to post 
scores above 1300. Tech shoot
ers will have a good chance to 
capture first place. With the 
phenomenol ability of Wry Paul, 
the reliability of seniors Eric 
Sandgren and Rich Boynton, 
the talent of freshman Norm Ca
ble. senior Fran O'Donnel. jun
ior Bill Clayton, sophomore 
Gary Arnold, and freshman 
Gary Masgrave and Will Higaski. the CMU Rifle Team has an 
opportunity to capture first place 
this season. We re tired of losing 
teams Mr. Haynes. We re shoot
ing for first place.
atSSoi 0ttnoS.
MONDAY, MARCH 2nd 
4:30 p.m.
THISTLE HALL
STANDINGS
SAE "A "
KS
TDP 'A 
ATO "A 
4E"A" 
Shrinks 
BTP "C-Men 
PKT "Gold '
W..L
5 0
STANDINGS
Old Men"A" 
TZK
Reggie Show 
SN "B 
DTD 
PKA "A 
TDP "B 
PKT "White
W..L
5 0
KNICKS LEAGUE
The EJ Bruins won twice. 
Beer scored 21 in a 71-53 win 
over ATO-"B". The Bruins also 
won by forfeit over DU-"A ". In 
a big game. BTP "A trounced 
the previously unbeaten Black 
Magics. 57-21- as Petrosky nett
ed 20. ATO "B" edged the un
derdogs 27-26.
STANDINGS W..L
EJ Brums 5 0
BTP"A 4 0
Black Magics 4 1
DU"A 2 3
Old Men W 1 2
Fingers 1 3
ATI "B" 1 4
Underdogs 0 4
HAWKSLEAGUE
GSIA beat BTP "B 49-40 as 
Cornuelle scored 22 for GSIA 
and Rhodes had 17 for the los
ers. SN "A" whipped ATO 
"JOB 50$18. Thomas scored 26 
as GSIA beat PKT  Purple" 60- 
24. Oakland "A" topped SN "A " 
41-34 and BTP "B ' outscored 
the Architects 40-30. but the 
game is under protest.
STANDINGS
Oakland "A 
GSIA 
SN A 
BTP "B 
JV Sci ubs 
PKT "Pui pie 
Al chi teds 
ATO ' Job
W L
0
MINOR LEAGUES
PACERS LEAGUE
EJ Conspiracy won twice, 
beating the Has Beens 25-22.
and the Globetrotters 39-26. 
Old Men "PPE" won 26-19 over 
the Hammers.
STANDINGS;
Old Men "PPE 
EJ "Conspiracy" 
Hammei s 
Has Beens 
Scobell High 
Globetrotteis
W..L
2 0 
2 1 
1 1 
1 1 
1 1 
0 3
COUGARS LEAGUE
4E-B beat SN "Wee 5" 30-20 
and BSR topped SAE "Gold" 
30-28 in a game under protest.
STANDINGS
EJ Bandits 
BSR
SAE 'Gold' 
4E "B 
SN "Wee5 
PKT "Streak
W..L
2 0 
2 0 
1 1 
1 1 
0 2 
0 2
BUCKS LEAGUE
The Old Men won two more 
games, defeating TDP "B" 90- 
19 and beating DTD 63-20. Sehlin poured in 29 points in the 
first game. Reggie Show, led by 
Reggie's 20 points, topped SN 
"B". 66-39. TDP "B" won a 33- 
15 decision over PKT "white" 
led bv Henderson's 9 points. 
PKA "A" edged SN "B" 34-31.
ROCKETS LEAGUE
Scores were EJ "Cheapo's 31. 
DU "J" 20 and Oakland "B 
70. BTP "Flamers" 14.
STANDINGS
6th Flooi Bombers 
Oakland "B 
DU "J
EJ "Cheapo's 
BTP "Flamei s '
W
2
2
1 1
1 1 
0 2
COLONELS LEAGUE
Bomber beat "sr-J" 48-22. it 
was Heads 58 APO "Lobsters'' 
26 and Sludge over Heads 38-
21.
STANDINGS W..L
Sludge 3 0
Bombei s 2 0
Heads 2 1
PKA "Gods 1 1
ATO "Si. J. 0 2
APO 'Lobsteis 0 2
IM BOWLING STANDINGS 
STRIKE LEAGUEW..L
Morewood Follies 26 2
SN "A 19 9
TDP 14 14
4E 13 15
PKA B 8 20
TX 7 21
BTP "G 4 24
SPARE LEAGUE W. .L
OLD MEN 27 5
PKA 21 7
DU 20 8
DTD 20 12
ATO 15 17
BTP "A 15 17
KS 9 23
PKT 4 28
SN "B 1 31
HIGH AVERAGES 
Mai otto SAE 177
llnst 4E 174
Z>cjeinab Morewood Follies 173
Di lzd SN 173
Anieen TDP 172
Intramural Night 
IM Night is Friday. March 13. 
Once again, the Pittsburgh 
Steeler basketball team will 
play a team of IM all-stars, af
ter the Major League Champ
ionship game is played. Harold 
Herre, president of the IM
Board will present trophies for 
those intramural sports that have 
been completed. Read moare 
about IM night in future issues 
of the Tartan.
Due Dates 
Due Feb. 24 
Co-Rec Table Tennis 
Foul shooting
