Vol. 69, No. 39C-MUTUESDAY, MARCH 3, 1970
Major Candidates Present Positions
***Cavanagh
Pat Cavanagh, Psychology, 2nd Year Grad
PLATFORM:
1. To place students where they can best affect the welfare of the student body.
On faculty promotion committees 
On departmental curriculum committees 
On the Board of Trustees
2. To implement programs to better serve the students.
A student run discipline system
A Pittsburgh Student Union to further the views and combined activities of Pittsburgh area col
lege and university students 
A more responsible allocation of the $90,000 Student Government budget to provide a wider range 
of student activities 
A Birth Control Clinic
EXPERIENCE:
Chairman. Student Senate. 1969-70
Chairman. Birth Control Committee, 1969-70
a member of  President Stever s Policy Advisory Board. 1969-70
 Emergency Subcommittee of Policy Advisory Board, 1969-70
 Conference Committee on Campus Code. 1969-70
 Faculty Senate Educational Policy Council. 1969
 Board of Trustees Student Affairs Committee. 1969-70
 Student Senate. 1968-70
A BAGELRAMA PRODUCTION
Misitano
Student Government is moving. In . thre*1 years it's budget 
has more than tripled, and it has gained student representation on 
almost all academic policy making bodies, and on a lot of admin
istrative ones. The ties between Warner Hall and SG are closethe 
administration will go along with any reasonable request we make. 
Trouble is. if you're an average C-MU student, you don't even know 
what SG is or care about what it does. I thing that's wrong, and I 
want to change it. I want to bring Student Government to the stu
dents. SG is important in this University, and you are a part of this 
University. It should matter to you. But maybe you came to C-MU 
exclusively to read your textbook and take tests. Then you wouldn't 
want to vote for me. And I wouldn't want you to.
Vincent J. Misitano. Jr.
Vincent Misitano, Physics, Sophomore
Polanickmm
C-MU needs a president who knows what needs to be done, 
and has the push to do it. In the recent past, many good ideas and 
tentative improvements have been bogged down or completely lost 
because of apathy, problems of communication and. Not knowing 
where to go. or who to see to get things done. I intend to work on 
the problems and needs of this campus, and keep at them until I 
get results. After three years of classes, extra-curricular activities, 
committees, part-time employment, and Student Senate, I feel I 
have the essential knowledge and perspective of the campus that 
is needed in getting people with ideas together with the means of 
accomplishing them.
Laurel Polanick
Ruffner
Mark Ruffner. a Graphics Design Major, has served during 
three years as President of the Men's Dormitory Council and as a 
member of the Senate Executive Council. During his freshman 
year Mark was instrumental in receiving a commitment for a new 
dormitory complex, and last year worked primarily on establishing 
coed housing. One of the Council members involved at that time 
was Mark Weltman. an Electrical Engineering Major, and Delta Upsilon's Rush Chairman. Ruffner and Weltman. besides working to
gether in the past, have also dealt extensively with the Adminis
tration. They feel they can form a compatible team, with Ruff
ner as President, and Weltman appointed as Policy Advisor, serv
ing in that capacity on the Policy Advisory Board. A dormitory-fraternity team of this nature would provide 1 > thorough representa
tion to the Administration 2 increased span of attendance at all 
campus organizations 3i more accurate feedback to the Senate, and 
41 a wider perspective of the campus.Mark Ruffner, Graphic Design, Junior

---------------------------------------------------

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
Page 2THE TARTANTuesday, March 3, 1970
Editorial
Did you ever go to sleep one night and wake up dead? 
What the hell difference does it make? We re building U.S. 
Steel buildings while the conditions in the Hill district are 
getting worse. We spend millions of tax dollars to build miles 
of concrete expressways, while mass transit systems are rap
idly collapsing. We have created a technological society, 
and millions have been left unemployed. We are spending 
billions of dollars on useless weapons, while HEW bills are 
being slashed.
But everybody knows what the problem is. It's time to 
put on radical ecological glasses and realize that every
bodys gotta lose something or everybody will lose every
thing. Is it worth it? Obviously, yes,
First lets look at whos look at whos winning while 
everybody else is losing.
Does the Pope feel that five billion unwanted lives are 
more precious than three billion wanted ones. How much 
cooler is it for a man to kill a Gook for God than for a man 
and a woman to make love without making another unneeded 
life. If both are murder and both are necessary, which is 
tidier? Which would you rather do?
Do G.M., Ford, U.S. Steel, Alcoa, Neyerhauser Paper, 
Gulf Oil, Esso and 493 others really want to spend all that 
capital and operating expense to stop crapping up the Plan
et? Are they going to be bad guys in black hats? Hell no, 
Theyll sweet talk you and me about how much it'll cost 
us; because they wont lower their earnings, just add in the 
cost. What if we call their bluff, say we'll pay, then not 
buy if they raise their prices? What if we boycott Detroit 
for a year? (That will get U.S. Steel in the bargain.) What 
if we quit driving and Sock Esso? Certainly it will be inconvient. But why should we sit on our rear ends and be poi
soned just to line someone else's coffer.
Why else is winning? The government is. Nixon is unit
ing us, young and old, rich and poor, black and white, under 
a common banner. He's gaining popularity. His State of 
Union message won us all. Or weren't you aware of that? 
Didnt you know? The rich are winning  for the moment 
anyhow. While poorer people are trapped in urban ghettos, 
the rich are fleeing to their country homes to get away from 
that sulfur smell, that polluted water. But how long will it 
take before their precious New England is overcome by the 
same polluted atmosphere that pervades our cities?
So what do we do about it?
I. Watch T.V. (Don't mess with newsprint. But beware of 
radioactive color sets.
___II. Plant lots of grass and trees.
III. Vote more taxes for better sewage systems, mass 
transit (nodiesal busses), etc.
IV. Pay more money for less stuff so Fortune's 500 can 
start cleaning up their leavings.
V. After you clean up your garbage, rub your boss's nose 
in his; get fired.
VI. Drive your car over the slag dump and buy a bicy
cle.
VII. Write letters to your congressman. Tell him he can 
come home from Perle Mesta's parties if he doesn't do some
thing. Make someone call for a roll call vote on important 
legislation so you know who the villians are. Then make sure 
they arent re-elected.
VIII. Tell your professors you want to learn about 
ecology. Find out how we can control the environment. You 
have special talents. The world needs you.
Its time for all of us to develop an ecological con
science. It's time to be radical. Because in five years it
might be too late. The trigger will have been pulled . . . and
we will be lying under colored televisions, pig American
cars, and unblemished apples. And by then, there won't even 
be room to bury us.
TRIN
Published every Tuesday and Friday
Editorial and Business OfficesSkibo 103 
Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213Telephone: 682-4557
ERICA BORDEN, Editor-in-Chiet 
Associate Editor Jenifer Digby
Business Manager Sue Cattano
Managing Editor......................................................................... Wayne Barron
News Editor ............... ..................................................................... jamie Edlin
Features Editor Chuck Daly
Sports Editors Alan letzt and Larry Brean
Aren't Student Deferments Necessary? 
Is A Life Justified by Value to Society?
Editor. The Tartan:
I would like to take this op
portunity to thank the Ameri
can Council on Education and 
the National Student Association 
tor supporting the termination 
of 2-S determents. (Just who are 
the NSA and how will this law 
effect their status > I particu
larly liked the reasons express
ed by the ACE. It is a standard 
Socialist, collectivist, or Com
munist party line that says that 
your life is only justified by its 
value to society. Here. I am ad
vised that since student defer
ments are no longer necessary 
to the "national welfare" they 
should be discontinued. Surely 
there is some remnant of rea
son left in every person who 
read this that would tell him 
that his life is not a sacrificial 
offering to be disposed of at 
the whim of the masses. The 
Constitution t which you rever
ently mention in the same is
sue's editorial i was written, not 
to protect society or the State 
from individuals, but to limit 
and confine the government 
lor the protection of individ
ual rights. We've come a long, 
long way.
The draft itself is a violation 
of these same rights  the right 
of a man to his'own life. This 
is the case for a volunteer army. 
It is also interesting to note 
that the people who propose to 
spend $10 billion to $20 billion 
a year for the preservation of 
'natural beauty" regard $4 bil
lion a year too high a price to 
pay for a volunteer army (sta
tistics from The Objectivist 
Feb.. 1970>.
The expressed opinion of the 
ACE is that the regular flow of 
highly educated manpower will 
not be sufficiently affected. 
(What of the highly academic 
areas that have quotas to meet 
or of the accusations that the 
lottery is not following the pre
scribed plan.i In addition, why 
should the serious student take 
a chance? Society needs this 
'highly educated manpower' 
(Did you hear me. Karl Marx? 
and it had best not take every 
action possible to demoralize 
and degrade him. expecting the 
professional's continuing good
will. And as to the question ot 
equity, it is a shame that the 
rich (evil connotations be al
lowed to ride along escaping in
duction. but is this sufficient 
grounds for attacking the con
scientious. motivated student 
because he has achieved what 
someone else could not?
..To those collectivists who 
entertain mystical longings for 
a land flowing with milk and 
honey. I wish to ask: Who will 
bother to produce the abun
dance of wealth that will be 
distributed equally? I do not 
stand in your ranks of dissent 
and will not march in your an
archistic revolts.
To those blind patriots who 
cry. "Love it or leave it.". 1 
say: provide me and all others 
with the America defined by the 
Constitution and the Bill of 
Rights. I must have reasons to 
love my country and those are 
the terms I require.
The worst of titles you may 
choose to bestow on me. I will 
anticipate now and claim proud
ly : I am an agoist.
Don Leightv 
MMS
New Judicial System Represses Students
Editor. The Tartan:
Duckworth's judicial proposal 
plays the administrative game 
of repressing students. He would 
set up student courts to enforce 
campus rules (which are pretty 
silly in the first place i. These 
student courts might be just as 
repressive as administrations 
tend to be. They might suspend 
or expel people for sleeping to
gether. using drugs, or sitting-in 
on campus.
These courts themselves would 
be stacked against the student. 
They would be presided over 
by administrators who are quite
adept at manipulation. 1 have 
gone to faculty senate meetings 
and have seen how deans color 
the issues so that the vote comes 
out their way.
Furthermore, the whole court 
system leaves the final decision 
with Stever. A student who is 
acquitted (found innocenti can 
be tried again in a higher court. 
The highest court is Stever.
If you still don't believe that 
student courts can be represive 
take a look at people's courts 
of the past.
It was a Jewish Court, the 
equivalent of the Student Courts.
which tried Jesus Christ. The 
Romans could have tried him 
in their own courts, but they let 
the Jewish courts do their dirty 
work for them.
So coming back to CMU. why 
do we need a campus court. 
There are already enough laws 
in the books. The campus 
doesn't have to make its own 
laws. All we need is a student 
composed appellate court, where 
students can appeal unfair ad
ministration verdicts.
Howard Richman 
Math-Econonncs
Academic Affairs Candidate Apple Stresses 
Role, Flexibility of Department Programs
by GARY STRAUS
"The Student Advisory Com
mittees require interest on the 
part of the students and a will
ingness to listen on the part of 
the faculty to be effective, a 
combination which does not 
exist in all departments." com
mented Bill Apple, candidate for 
Director of the Academic Affairs 
Board.
My Apple's interest in aca
demic affairs began two years 
ago when he became the first 
chairman ol the Faculty Course 
Evaluation sponsored by Alpha 
Phi Omega. In the process of 
organizing the FCE. he met 
many members of the faculty 
and administration who were 
concerned with improving 
teaching quality and curriculum.
Mr. Apple feels that these con
tacts would be invaluable to 
him as Director of the Acade
mic Affairs Board.
He is presently a member of 
the CIT Teaching Effectiveness 
Committee which operates un
der the auspices ot the Faculty 
Senate. This committee, made 
up of faculty members from 
most CIT departments, as well 
as administrators and students, 
is formulating plans for a teach
ing aids center. The center will 
be headed by a professional who 
will use modern techniques to 
help instructors improve their 
teaching abilities.
T would like to see more 
students given the chance to 
take courses outside their de
partments." Mr. Apple stated.
There are many departments 
that force a student to over
load if he wants to take a course 
other than those required. Mr. 
Apple suggested a change in 
the curriculum structure. Each 
semester a student could have 
no more than tour required 
courses: the fifth course must 
be a completely free elective 
which could be taken in any 
college in the University. "In 
this era of increasing social 
awareness." Mr. Apple empha
sized. "it is essential for the 
students to cross the boundaries 
between disciplines. "
Mr. Apple is a junior mech
anical engineer student from 
Cleveland. Ohio. The election 
is scheduled for March 11 and 
12.
Pre-Trial Justice Topic of Y-Forum
Is the American legal tradi
tion of pre-trial justice, based 
the assumption of innocence un
til guilt is proven, breaking 
down'. One indicator that it is 
may be the challenge and even 
abolition ot mimmum-bail laws 
in some areas, causing a hard
ship for those unable to raise 
bail  the poor and racial min
orities. All of this will be dis
cussed at the Y-s .Noon Forum
this Thursday at 12:30 in the 
Staff Cafeteria. Skibo.
Speaker will be Mr. Paul Wahlhaftig. director ol the new 
Pittsburgh Pre-Trial Justice 
Program, sponsored by the Am
erican Friends Service Commit
tee. Mr. Wahrhaftig is a lawyer 
and has practiced in California 
and worked for the Anti-Detamation League in Houston. 
His initial effort in Pittsburgh
includes gathering facts about 
crimes committee by people out 
on bail, since one of the rea
sons given tor high bail is that 
people out on bail commit a 
high proportion of crimes.
The Forum is open to every
one. will include questions and 
discussion and will adjourn by 
1:30. People may bring their 
lunch.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, March 3, 1970THE TARTANPage 3
Candidates-Director of Activities Board
- ' -  Iacono - 
As a freshman, realizing what little cultural and social pro
gramming was done at C-MU. I became one of those responsible 
lor the formation of last year's Skibo Program Committee which 
evolved into the Activities Board. Following through with my initial 
interests. I became the chairman of the entertainment half of the 
Activities Board and also chairman of the Senate Rules Committee. 
These two positions enabled me to play a significant role in the 
evolution of the structure & programming of the Activities Board as 
it now exists.
Activities Board Plans for the future:
li De-emphasize big weekends (Carnival. Homecomingi by offering three quality concerts a semester (e.g.. Herbie Mann. N. Y. 
Rock & Roll. Steve Miller, etc. i
21 Initiate a coffee-house program that would bring rising per
formers on campus
31 Expand film programming
41 Expand the range of cultural events, expecially toward 
Black community, having a broader based speaker program and more 
cultural entertainment.
51 Be open to all suggestions and ideas.
Murray
Bill IaconoBill lacono. Psychology, 
Sophomore
Scott Murray, History Junior
I became involved with campus programming last year as a 
part of the Lecture Committee which was at that time administra
tion sponsored and controlled. Feeling that this was not a satisfac
tory mechanism for programming, and desiring increased social pro
gramming. 1 became active in the organization of the Skibo Pro
gram Committee which evolved into the present Activities Board. 
Since then I have acted as chairman of the cultural half of the 
board.
Activities Board plans for the future:
1> De-emphasize big weekends (Carnival. Homecoming) by of
fering three quality concerts a semester (e.g. Herbie Mann. NY.
Rock & Roll. Steve Miller, etc.
21 Initiate a coffee-house program that would bring rising per
formers on campus.
31 Expand film programming
41 Expand the range of cultural events.
Black community: having a broader based 
more cultural entertainment
51 Be open to all suggestions and ideas
especially toward the 
speaker program and
St ' tt Murrav
Candidates-Academic Affairs Director
Apple
In a university with as many diverse disciplines as we have at 
C-MU. there are fewT similarities between various departments in the 
problems that they encounter in the area of academic affairs. One 
of the areas that is of a common interest to all departments, howev
er. is the problem of decision making on salary, renewal of con
tract. promotion and tenure. This area has increasingly come under 
the scrutiny of the students and the faculty themselves in the past 
tew semesters.
No matter what department we are in. drama, architecture. 
English or chemistry, we are all concerned with the quality of in
struction at this university. It is in this area of seeking to improve
the instruction at C-MU that I have been most active in the past 
two years.
Last year I was chairman of the Faculty-Course Evaluation 
and this year I have acted as a contact with faculty, administra
tion and trustees in informing them of our actions on the project, 
and asking them for both suggestions and support.
It is on the basis of my continual interest in improving the 
teaching effectiveness at C-MU and on the basis that 1 have already 
established lines of communication with the faculty and the admin
istration involved in decision making on matters of academic af
fairs. that I ask for your support in the up coming election.
Friend
William Apple, 
Mechanical Engineer, 
Junior
I am running for an office titled Director of Academic Affairs 
Board. The name of the office seems to me to imply three require
ments - knowledge of academic affairs, ability to deal with prob
lems arising in student-administration and student-faeulty interfaces, 
and a philosophy about learning. For those interested in qualifica
tions. I will list what I think qualifies me with respect to the first 
two requirements: Undergraduate four years in Physics at C-MU. 
now psychology graduate student, member of Student Senate one 
vear. member of Educational Policy Council, member of EPC com
mittee considering ROTC.
More important is a philosophy about education. 1 Students 
need not only great freedom of choice but a range of alternatives 
meaningful in their life space with an environment of positive re
inforcement for original creation. 2i Students ought to realize that 
this will not come to be instantaneously. 3 Administrators and fac
ulty ought to realize that this bad better come to be damned soon.
Kenneth E. Friend
Ken Friend, Psychology, 
1st year grad.
Independent Commuter Representative
 Richman
PLATFORM:
1 * Defeat Duckworth's judicial proposal.
2> Make ROTC extra-curricular.
31 Open placement office to students who want to talk to mili
tary-industrial complex recruiters.
4 Abolish Board of Trustees  replace it with administra
tive responsibility to the campus community.
51 Abolish the executive committee's power to veto Student 
Senate resolutions.
Howard RichmanHoward Richman, Math, 
Sophomore
Independent Graduate Representative
Burgess
Tom Burgess, Psychologv, 
1st year Grad
I stand inalterably in favor of good and forever opposed to evil.
Platform:
1 Bring the war home to C-MU
2 Bring pollution home to C-MU
3' Void where prohibited i piss tor peace 
4 ' End the myths
5 Bury capitalism
6' Majority Student representation of board of trustees 
7' Publish teacher s salary
8 Public disclosure of voting ol University stocks
9 * Open Campus responsive to Community needs 
10 * Abolition ol all grades but pass & fail
11 ' Legalize Pot
121 Un-plug the machine Build Fine Arts Bldg 
131 End the Draft
14 > End the Army
15 ' Solidarity with the PRG.
161 Support the Panthers < Black & White
17  Legalize abortion
181 Free all political prisoners in the jails & schools 
191 Dick Gregory for graduation speaker 
20' Female Power. Freak Power. Gay Power 
21  FT A
69 And anything else.
T. LBurg<

---------------------------------------------------

Poge 4THE TARTANTuesday, March 3, 1970
SENIOR
BANQUET
Wednesday, 5:45
Featuring
TheSENIEO
and
REBECCA
AND
THE
Sunnybrooke Farmers
-EXTRARBAQUT FeSBQR
Friday Night, Macrh 6  8:30 
Duquesne University Student 
Union Ballroom 
S2.00 Donation
Tickets Sold at Door
ORIGINAL HOT DOG SHOPPE
Over 10 Million Hot Dogs Sold
WITH TUB COUPON 
between jfe* of 3 pjfti, and 3
THREE HOT DOGS FOR JWCp?   OR 
THREE STEAK BURGERS FOR $1.00!
OR ... FIVE LARGE DRINKS FOR $1.00! 
YOUR CHOICE
BatururiengeU SdABy nUTBA Fdhi, Mc6 
OPEN 24 HOURS rTQi,r 3901 FORBES AVE.
"Stop Thinking about Poverty
SBRTd ON idFgnR
VISTA and PEACE CORPS Representatives 
Room 56 Skibo
TODAY is the LAST DAY
* Architects
* Engineers
* Business/ 
Majors
* Education/ 
Majors
* Economics/ 
Majors
* Math/Science] 
MajorsPeace
Corps
on 
fCampusl
March
Bc c68 :3N 0a c68 aDcDN8q s8:3D8 Ec 
c68 3v8 :3N Ec 3ol3m s88O2
1949 1970
Only $1839P.O.E.
EVERYONE IS GETTING THE 70 BUG FROM:
M. W. MOTORS
Authorized Volkswagen Dealer 
731 Butler St. Etna, Pa.
ST. 1-5671  HU. 6-1810
(Moving to Oakland Area Soon)
FREE
Six films of .8N1EO3N1 H8::3 
Two i63NoE8 i63YoEO v0LE8 
idhUQPBQ AQiTnhQ ,dAA 
RDO13mq F3N:6 (k)XxC
Write Ithaca College for 
Summer Session Pictoral Review 
LOSE YOURSELF IN EDUCATION 
AND RECREATION OPPORTUNITIES
Liberal Arts Program
Humanities
Natural Science
Social Science
Communications Arts
Physical Education Program
Health
Recreation
Athletics
Performing Arts Program
Fine Arts
Film
Music
Radio-TV
Theatre
PROGRAM FOR ALL
mmmm
ITHACA COLLEGE

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, March 3, 1970THE TARTANPage 5
2 p3I8oN3v3 RDYY0Nc 
i3L3O3I6 a0N gN8E18Oc
121 University Place
Basament of the Physicians Building
OPEN: Monday-Friday, 9:00-5:00
mPublils
Xerox Copies 5 / 2$
^ MANUSCRIPTS 
>/
XEROX
COPIES DO MAKE A DIFFERENCE!
THESESNOTEBOOKS
(Department Charge Accounts 
and Research Grants WELCOME)
5BR BT ThnQ pAeUyQR 
,dSQ FehQ .nUr / 
I nterview with Clairol on 
Thursday, March 12, 
To Find Out.
We're interested in all 
graduating engineers.
HOMEWORKERS WANTED
Envelope addressers; send Self Ad* 
dressed. Stamped Envelope. OVER
SEAS JOBS; HIGH PAY, List of Com
panies Hiring; $1.00. The Elliot Co., 
748 Washington Ave. Miami Beach, 
Florida 33139.
KdAA! R R,eQR
3612 Forbes St. MU2-2928
Popular Price-Famous Makes 
Men-Women Casual and Dress Shoes
NOW YOU CAN STUDY IN VENICE
T68 0Oom cD1m 3sN031 YN0IN3v222222222
officially sponsored by a City and a committee of its leading citizens; 
enabling you to study in 5 university-level institutions:
1. UNIVERSITY Dl VENEZIA  foreign languages, literature, Italian art, history, 
coneomics
2. ISTITUTO UNIVERSITARIO Dl ARCHITETTURA  architectural design, urban 
studies, scene design
3. ACCADEMIA Dl BELLE ARTI  painting, sculpture, theater design, art history, 
interior design, studio courses
4. CONSERVATORIO Dl MUSICA  history of music and theater, composition, 
advanced instrument and voice instruction
5. ISTITUTO Dl DISEGNO INDUSTRIALE  industrial design history, problems
$2750 Comprehensive Fee includes academic year tuition, room, board, social program, 
medical insurance plus:
6-week Italian language instruction and cultural orientation 
Equivalent of 30 credit hours transferable to U.S. colleges
U0l 0Y8O c0 :0oo8I8/Y0O0N81 IN0DYq EO18Y8O18Oc :0oo8I8 cD18Ocq IN31D3c8 cD18Ocq 
:0oo8I8/3I8 EO1ELE1D3o2 RcD18Oc O0l EO S8OE:8 aN0v p3NO3N1q yN3G8q F3:3o8c8Nq gN3ccq 
S33Nq nOEL8NEcE8 0a dNEf0O3q i0o0N310q i0OO8:cE:Dcq FE:6EI3Oq R0Dc68NO i3oEa0NOE3q 
RnU! pDaa3o02
.eh BU.ehFdTBeUX
VENICE ISLAND e. STUDIES 
ABpQhT! ThnRT pnBAyBUP / g,BAdyQAg,Bdq gd2 19107 - (215)563-6688
EARN $200.00
Agent wanted to solicit orders 
for unique new low priced 
Champagne Tone Orchid for 
Easter, 29 March, and Mother's 
Day, 10 May;delivery is made 
direct to recipient. No Invest
ment Required. Free Sales Kit. 
Free Samples. Proven method 
now used at Lehigh & Prince
ton Universities. Write immed
iately to:
FLOWER GIFT SERVICE
34 West 10th Street 
New York, N. Y. 10011
PHYSICISTS
ELECTRICAL
ENGINEERS
LINCOLN LABORATORY
has openings for a 
limited number of en
gineers and physicists.
LINCOLN LABORATORY,
a research center of the 
Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology, is engaged 
in research and develop
ment in advanced elec
tronics, with emphasis on 
applications to national 
defense and space 
exploration.
A LABORATORY REPRESENTATIVE 
WILL INTERVIEW APPLICANTS
March 6
CONSULT THE CAMPUS PLACEMENT 
OFFICE IN ADVANCE
LINCOLN LABORATORY
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
IOX 21  LEXINGTON 
MASSACHUSETTS 02173
Do you think a bright young engineershould spend his most imaginative years on the same assignment?
Neither do we.
Thats why we have a two- You may select specialyear Rotation Program for Jj - zed jobs, or broad systemsgraduating engineers who f sjh type jobs. Or you can choose
would prefer to explore several ffj . not to change assignments if
technical areas. And thats why l youd rather develop in-depth
many of our areas are organ- skills in one area,
ized by functionrather than |1| Either way, we think
by project. youll like the Hughes apAt Hughes, you might g M / proach.
work on spacecraft, communi- It means youll become
cations satellites and/or tacti- more versatile in a shorter
cal missiles during your first If you qualify, well arrange for time. r______________
two years. you to work on several different (And your j HUGHES i
All you need is an EE, ME assignments.. .and you can salary will !_____________j
or Physics degree and talent, help pick them. show it.) MuNr
idFgnR BUTQhSBQKRX
March 11,1970
Representatives of several activities of Hughes Aircraft Company (each with highlyspecialized personnel requirements and separate interview schedules) will visit your 
campus. If your career interests lie in one or more of the following fields of aero
space/electronics, contact your Placement Office TODAY to make sure your name 
gets on the interviewing schedule for HUGHES AEROSPACE DIVISIONS:
Microwave & Antenna Engineering Electro-Optical Engineering
Guidance & Controls Engineering Microcircuit Engineering
Spacecraft Design Engineering Space Systems Engineering
Components & Materials Engineering Missile Systems Engineering
Weapon Systems Engineering Circuit Design Engineering
U.S. Citizenship required/An equal opportunity employer.
4848484848484848484848484853484848

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6THE TARTANTuesday, March 3, 1970An A-Paul-Ing Win For Pitt, )V/77 
CMU Loss Spoils Moe's Farewell To Tech
Tartans Tough For 30 Minutes TArrrAlvi
Brown's Absence Hurts Upset Effort
CMU FG...FT RBS.. .Pts.PITTFG..FT..JIBS... Pts.
Stobbe 9-182- 4720Paul8-151- 2417
Cotter 5-112- 4612Patcher4- 91- 4159
Hardiman 3- 42- 439O Gorek3-115- 61011
Weborg 3-100- 266Scott5-111- 2211
Conrad 2- 20- 004Downes2- 52- 316
Abraham 0- 33- 763Lewis4- 90- 228
Grazzini 0- 21- 131Riggle0- 01- 231
Hollis 0- 11- 201Causer1- 10- 172
Wright 0- 00- 010Caldwell2- 20- 004
Westmeyer- 10- 100Cizmarik2- 53- 327
22-5211-254055Tweardy0- 00- 000
31-6814-255176
By LES KOVALIK
Amidst the screaming and horn-blowing of frenzied mob at the Skibo gym, the Tartans 
dropped a 76-55 decision to the Panthers of Pitt Saturday. The loss snapped CMU's three 
game winning steak. Retiring head coach Moe Fassinger made his final home appearance.
The bleachers were packed 
and the crowd was enthusiastic, 
to say the least. For a long while 
it looked like the Tartans might 
be able to hang on for a victory.
Dave Stobbe whetted the upset 
hopes of the home fans as he 
hit the basket from all parts of 
the court. The score was tied 36- 
36 six minutes into the second 
period, but Pitt's height advan
tage began to pay off in re
bounding power, and the Panth
ers pulled into the lead.
Playing without the services 
of their ailing star Bob Brown,
CMUs starting line-up consisted 
of five seniors. Most of the ear
ly action in the game took place 
at the foul stripe. The Tartans 
missed five of their first six free 
throws allowing the Panthers to 
gain a 10-5 lead after five min
utes of play. Then Fletcher Hardiman outrebounded three of 
Pitts tallest men and Dave Stob
be swished three long ones to 
put the Tartans out in front 11- 
10.
The CMU-Pitt games this sea
son have not been noted for their 
cleanliness. Panther Mike Riggle 
displayed excellent fouling tech
nique as he slammed Bill Weborg in the head and was 
promptly ejected by an official.
SENNI ONREBAQS SRUTU 
RFeUaNt
The lead changed hands sev
eral times in the half. With three 
and a half minutes remaining, 
the Tartans found themselves on 
top 25-22. but their lead dwin
dled away, and the half-time 
buzzer found Pitt ahead 28-27.
The second half was a disas
ter for CMU. The Tartans stay
ed within striking distance for 
a while. They tied the score at 
34-34 and again at 36-36. but 
then things began falling to 
pieces. Mike Paul got fired up 
for Pitt and scored seven quick 
points before fouling out with 
the Panthers ahead 45-36.
The Tartans cooled off rap
idly and began missing easy lay
ups. Pitt zoomed way out in 
front. With five minutes left the 
Panthers were up 65-44, and 
they maintained a 21 point ad
vantage until the game ended. 
The scoreboard read Pitt 76, 
CMU 55 when time expired.
Dave Stobbe led all scorers 
with 20 points. Fletcher Hardiman was also an important part 
of the Tartan attack when the 
score was close. When Hardiman 
was out of the lineup, the Pitt 
press was more effective and 
the CMU offense much less po
tent.
Mike Paul led the Panthers 
with 17. Pitt also out-fouled 
CMU by a slim 25-22 margin. 
Four players were forced to 
leave the game.
The Tartans close out the 
1969-70 season on the road. On 
Tuesday. March 3rd they travel 
to Thiel, and Wednesday they 
visit Washington & Jefferson.
Dave Stobbe scores two of his 20 points despite efforts by Pitts Mike |i 
Riggle as Bob Grazzini (52) and Paul OGorek look on. The Tartans 
kept close to the Panthers for three quarters before Pitt pulled away 
to a 76-55 win.
Photo by Art Werschulz
Swimmers Top Cleveland State J]\J REVIEW
Swim Coach Steve Fagin was 
worried Saturday about the out
come of his team's finale at 
Cleveland St. and he had good 
reason to be. Last Wednesday he 
predicted a close win at Cleve
land State, but freshman butterflier Jim McCafferty was unex
pectedly put out of action after 
he was mugged Thursday night 
in East Liberty. Jim is all right 
now. but he had played an im
portant part in Tech's meet plan 
and was unable to swim.
Surprisingly, the determined 
Tech swimmers rose to the oc
casion as they sunk Cleveland, 
58-46, and brought a happy end 
to a five-meet losing streak. 
Lloyd Miller, the new school 
record-holder in the 200 yd. in
dividual medley, again paced 
CMU, while Kent Schnake turn
ed in an unusual extra effort 
that enabled Tech to grab some 
unexpected points.
..The Tartans took the lead ear
ly by sweeping the 400 yd. free
style relay, and then Bob Mac
Intyre and Timmy Mehl initiated 
their all-winning program by 
sweeping the distance freestyle 
events. After the diving competion, Cleveland was forced to 
gamble by pressing their best 
swimmers, and in the words of 
Coach Fagin, they just ran 
out of gas in the last relay. 
The outcome of the meet was 
not determined until this final 
event, but Kent Schnake, Andy 
Beal, Bob MacIntyre, and Tim
my Mehl shut the Staters off by 
shipping them by 7 seconds in 
the 400 yd. freestyle relay.
The CMU swimmers compil
ed an improved 3-8-0 record.
and virtually all of the Tartans 
should be returning next year. 
One event remains on the sche
dule for next Thursday. The an
nual Penn-Ohio Relays, which 
feature many of the best smallcollege swim teams in the Pennsylvania-Ohio area, are going to 
be held next weekend at Clarion 
State College. The format of the 
tournament has been altered to 
simulate NCAA-sponsored meets, 
and many of the Tech swim
mers are expected to do well. 
Lloyd Miller will be swimming 
the medley, and freshmen Jim 
McCafferty and Tim Mehl might 
surprise quite a few spectators 
in the 100 yd. butterfly and 100 
yd. freestyle events.
Allegheny 
Bethany 
Slippery Rock 
Grove City 
W&J
Cleveland St.
77CMU27
59CMU44
71CMU33
61CMU42
60CMU43
46CMU58
SWIMMING RESULTS
400 yd. Medley Relay - 1. 
CMU Lowry. Miller. LaRochelle. Beale. 4:27.7
1000 yd. Freestyle - CMU 1. 
MacIntyre 2. Kirk 3. Freeman 
12:28.5
200 yd. Freestyle - CMU 1. 
Mehl 2. Schnake 3. Ressu 2.02.8 
50 yd. Freestyle -. Cleveland 
St. 1. Remle 2. Krauss 3. Beale 
: 24.1
200 yd. Individual MedleyCMU 1. Miller 2. Bogas 3. Hoysan 2:24.0 
Diving - Cleveland St. 1. Mar
tin 2. Bierut 3. Provan 67.40 pts.
200 yd. Butterfly - Cleveland 
St. 1. Kirk 2. LaRochelle 3. DeShatcer 2:22.4
100 yd. Freestyle - CMU 1. 
Mehl 2. Remle 3. Schnake :54.2
200 yd. Backstroke - Cleveland 
St. 1. Ressu 2. Miller 3. Lowrv
2:23.4
BOWLING
In the championship match 
this Saturday, the Old Men top
ped SAE in total pins. 2455-2451. 
SAE won the first and third 
games by scores of 862-848 and 
828-760. But the grads won the 
second contest 847-760 to give 
them enough of a margin to win 
the crown. Bob Sundelin led 
the victors with a 539 series. 
The More wood Follies forfeited 
the consolation game enabling 
PKA to finish third.
For the regular season, indi
vidual honors went to:
High Average: Bob Marotto SAE 
177
High Series: Barry Zuckerman 
Morewood 600$a 
High Game: Steve Sherman PKA 
242
BASKETBALL
MAJOR LEAGUES 
KNICKS LEAGUE
BTP A" took first place in 
the Knicks League by upsettingtop-seeded EJ Bruins 42-38 as 
Onda scored 16. In other games. 
Wong scored 35 as the Fingers 
whipped the Underdogs 78-41. 
Old Men  W " topped ATO "B"
46-17. and the Black Magics 
beat DU "A" 52-31 behind
Field's 20 points.
BULLETS LEAGUE
Kappa Sigma took the top 
shot by edging TDP A 35-32 
to remain undefeated. Peretich 
netted 13 for the winners while 
Arnold scored 10 for Tau Delt. 
SAE A gained the second 
spot by beating ATO A 48-33 
behind Abers 17 points. In oth
er games, it was Shrinks over 
PKT Gold 38-32 and 4E A 
over BTP C-Men 44-27.
STANDINGS
Kappa Sigma 
SAE A '
ATO "A 
TDP "A"
4E "A" 
Shrinks 
BTP  C-Men " 
PKT "Gold '
W...L
I
HAWKS LEAGUE
A three-way tie resulted in the 
Hawks League between GSIA. 
SN "A, and Oakland "A". In 
the big game. SN trounced GSIA
47-29 with Shaffer leading SN 
by scoring 19. SN beat JV Scrubs 
58-33 as Shaffer tallied 28. The 
Oakland 'As" won by forfeit 
over PKT "Purple'. The JV < 
Scrubs beat the Architects 32-21 
and BTP "B topped ATO ' Job 
44-37.
The start of the 400-yd. freestyle in an earlier Tech swim meet, 
CMU swimmers compiled a 3-8 record this year.
STANDINGSW..LSTANDINGSW.,.LBTP A"70GSIA61EJ Bruins61SN A"61Black Majics52Oakland A61Fingers43JV Scrubs4, 3DU A"25BTP B '34Old Men "W25Architects25ATO B" 
Underdogs
1
1
6
6PKT Purple 
ATO' Job
1
0
6
7

---------------------------------------------------

Bob Grazzini pulls down rebound while Bill Weborg tights for position under boards.
Jerry Siskind
FOR LESS!
Over 1000 New 9x12's 
$15, $20, $29, $39, $49 
6x9s. 12x12s, 12x15s, 12x18s, etc. 
FURNITURE SAVINGS 
Through Wholesale Showrooms
i,dRQ[R
5432 hedvry Tyan TFEto-CtA 
cBAM AgANo tEo sw EaSabp BaSa 
fTER,NtEo RCxx T BaSaD
JYcvk musbswu5
CMU Cheerleaders Sally Wilson (Tartan sports 
staff member), Janice Murray, and Kathy Olin 
enthusiastically greet Tartan starters Wednesday.
Martin Bauer
University of Pittsburgh Theatre
PRESENTS
ROSENCRANTZ AND GUILDENSTERN 
ARE DEAD
by Tom Stoppard
Directed by F. Curtis Canfield
MARCH 6, 7, 11 -14, 18-21 
8:30 P.M.
STEPHEN FOSTER MEMORIAL 
Call 621-3500 ext. 331 for reservations
STANDINGS
EJ "Bandits" 
BSR
SAE "Gold" 
4E B"
SN "Wee 5" 
PKT "Streak"
W...L 
5 0
Foul Shooting
Foul shooting starts today at 
4:30 with the top five shooters 
from each team returning on 
Thursday. Karl Marietta is com
missioner.
Call Pool
Three additional teams must 
be added to the schedule. Check 
the IM bulletin board this week
Table Tennis
Bob Marotto is commissioner. 
Schedules for singles and dou
bles are on the bulletin board. 
Matches must be arranged by 
the home team on the top of the 
bracket by the date posted. 
Failure to do so results in a for
feit.
Constitutional Change
The following constitutional 
change was passed by the IM 
Board last week.
Graduate students may com
pete with undergraduates in
Tuesday, March 3, 1970THE TARTANPage 7
I.M. REVIEW
(Continued from Page 6)
BUCKS LEAGUE
The Old Men A finished 
their undefeated season by beat
ing SN B 70-19. TZK defeat
ed PKT white, 83-18 as Ross 
poured in 28 points. Reggie 
Show whipped TDP B 98-23 
led by Reggies 24 points, Gate
woods 21, and Browns 20. DTD 
topped PKA, 42-31 as Suter 
scored 18.
STANDINGS
Old Men 
Reggie Show7 
TZK 
SN "B 
PKA 
DTD
TDP"B" 
PKT
W...L
Tartan guard Fletcher Hardiman (20) watches his 
shot head towards hoop while Paul OGorek and 
Mike Patcher wait for possible rebound.
Art Werschulz
KEVIN VOTTER drives in for a layup. Pitts 
Kent Scott seems to be running off court. Cotter 
scored 12 points for Tech.
Art Werschulz
MINOR LEAGUES 
COLONELS LEAGUE
The scores were Sludge 45. 
ATO "Jag" 37: Heads 28. PKA 
25 and Bombers 41. APO "Lob
sters" 15.
STANDINGS
Sludge 
PKA "Gods 
Heads 
Bombers 
APO "Lobsters 
ATO "SR. Jag"
W...L
PACERS LEAGUE
The results were: Hammers 
42, Globetrotters, 24; Old Men 
39, Has Beens 29; EJ Conspiracy 
29, Scobell High 18.
STANDINGS W...L
Old Men 5 0
EJs 4 1
Hammers 3 2
Scobell 2 3
Has Beens 1 4
Globetrotters 0 5
an intramural sport if and 
only if no intramural points 
are involved. Examples are 
tournament play and jag
jeague sports.
HANDBALL STANDINGS
Front Wall W...L
Old Men - Physics "A" 2 0
SAE "Gold"' 1 1
PKT 1 1
BTP"B 0 2
Side Wall W...L
Physics Dept. * 2 0
ATO 2 0
TDP 0 2
SN "B" 0 2
Ceiling W...L
Old Men Lithium No. 6 2 0
BTP A" 0 0
SN "A" 2 1
Met Knights 0 1
Back W...L
SAE 1 0
3E-A4 1 0
Faculty Bulldogs 1 1
DU 0 2
IM Night
Dont forget intramural night 
on Friday March 13. The cham
pionship basketball game and the 
Pittsburgh Steeler - CMU AllStar game will be played. Tro
phies will be presented at halftime. In addition, two steward
esses from Australian Airlines 
will serve as hostesses and will 
pass out programs. Admission is 
free to CMU students.
IM Due Dates
Swimming rosters are due to
day by 4:30. Softball, rifle, and 
team badmitton rosters are due 
next Tuesday. March 10 at 4:30.
MoNA brilliant, MAw short film 
imports from this unique 
three-part international festi
val of creative and provoca
tive cinema achievements 
from 9 nations___
22223v0OI c68v2222
French Student Revolt Peris 
Mai 1968. Julie Christie and Michael Caine in Tonight Let' All Make Love in London. Collage Graphics from Czech
oslovakia Wild Japanese Dada Comedy
KINETIC ART 
Program Two 
K,QhhQTT heeF
R3cDN13mq F3N:6 -M 
)XxC 3O1 -CXCC 
RDO13mq F3N:6 -7 
2XCCq MXxCq )XxC 3O1 -CXCC
TE:G8c $-2CC 3c RGEs0 
BOa0Nv3cE0O y8G
Sponsored by The Activities Board
ROCKETS LEAGUE
..PKA "B" 22. E.J. Cheapos 19; 
6th floor Bombers 52. BTP
"Flamers" 18; Oakland 
DU "Jag" 24.
B"38.
STANDINGSW...L
Oakland "B50
6th Floor Bombers41
PKA "B32
EJ s23
DU "Jag"14
BTP "Flames"05
COUGARS LEAGUE
This week s results: EJ Ban
dits 28. SAE "Gold 24: BSR 43. 
4E "B" 20: SN "Wee 5" 50. 
PKT "Streak" 32.
Program 2
CMU Coach Moe Fassinger, who announced his retirement last week, goes out on court with the starting 
five of (left to right) Bob Grazzini, Dave Stobbe, Fletcher Hardiman, Bill Weburg and Bill Abraham.
All are seniors. Jerry Siskind
\

---------------------------------------------------

SCHEDULE
FRIDAY, MARCH 6
8:30 CARNEGIE MUSIC HALL
GREEK SING CONCERT
SATURDAY, MARCH 7
6:30 WILLIAM PENN HOTEL
DINNER
ORPHEUS IN CONCERT 
DANCE WITH THE RAVEN' BLUES 
11:45 AWARDS
Tickets may be purchased at Skibo 103  $10.00 per couple.
Last Friday night, at The Staircase, one of the downtown Pitts- 1 
burghs hotter nightspots (mucho thanx to George the manager, and the 
stoic Pittsburgh cop who let us minors in), my partner and I had the op
portunity to both photograph and interview the multitalented Ravin Blues, j 
this years Greek Swing dance hand. In them, we discovered an exciting  
quintet composed of varied personalities and opinions. We had about a half 
hour interview with them, covering their young careers and experiences, as 
stars of the local music scene. (Portions of this interview can be heard 
daily on WRCT.) And so, we invite you to . . . MEET THE RAVIN 
BLUES....................
Al-Leader, organist, and tain- Cheryl-Lead vocalist, chief hip- Frank-Lead guitar, also from
bourine manipulator extraordin- twirler in Joplinesque manner; Canevin, now a Chem. E. here
aire; Canevin High Grad; Dnq- Crafton High grad, Pitt fresh- atC-MC.
uesne freshman. man.
Mike-Electric bass; Canevin Dave-Drummer, Canevin (where 
grad., goes to Pitt; hates grea- else?); very shy with interviewsy music. ers.
RAVIN BLUESORPHEUS
Orpheus, Ravin Blues
By RICK YEE
My article in last Fridays Tartan criticizing the cam
pus apparent lack of enthusiasm for Greek Sing and Swing 
provoked a barrage of boos, hisses, and other assorted nega
tive reactions from friends and enemies alike. Perhaps I was 
irreverently harsh toward a sacred cow; to those I may have 
offended, I passively apologize. The purpose of my editor
ializing was to induce campus Greeks to take this opportun
ity to display pride. Through support, in an event which has 
been virtually theirs alone in past years. This year however, 
a cordial invitation is also presented to dorm residents and 
commuters to take advantage of an exciting weekend of en
tertainment. Friday nights program at Carnegie Music Hall 
will feature the fraternity and sorority concerts, with the
material ranging from classical Latin hymns to folk-rock. A 
date dinner will initiate Greek Swing on Saturday night at 
the William Penn Hotel. An experience in clean contempor
ary rock follows with Orpheus in concert, a refreshing brand 
of after-dinner music: soft ballads, very soothing, and easy 
on the ears. Then things begin to get mobile, as the electri
fying Ravin blues take the stage for the Greek Swing dance. 
I have nothing but the utmost enthusiasm for seeing this 
group perform once again; many swingers may in fact choose 
not to dance, but to gaze and listen in a captivated trance; 
such is the power of the Ravin Blues. (More on them in the 
next article.) The evening at the William Penn concludes with 
the Greek Sing awards; from there, the night has just begun 
back on campus....
Page 8THE TARTANTuesday, March 3, 1970Greek Swing 70

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12THE TART ANFriday, March 6, 1970
Photo by Jerry Siskind 
City pot-hole tilling truck makes the rounds but leaves curbside holes unfilled.
Elections To Use Voting Machines
by Vincent J. Misitano, Jr.
In a motion passed during a recent Student Sen
ate meeting, the use of voting machines in the up
coming SG elections was approved. The machines 
are to be obtained from the Allegheny County Elec
tions Bureau, which is supplying all the necessary 
services without cost to Student Government.
The senators who initiated the suggestion of us
ing the machines stated several reasons for their 
use:
1. Only one person is needed to tend a polling area 
using the machines, whereas with the paper bal
lot method two persons were usually needed. 
Therefore use of the machines makes possible 
the setting up of more polling places, thus ensur
ing a better voting turnout.
2. With paper ballots, it is customary to have 10-12 
people spend up to two hours tallying votesthe 
voting machines will completely eliminate this 
task.
3. The use of the machines will be an educational 
experience in itself, preparing students for later 
encounters in public elections. It is also thought 
that the machines, through their novelty appeal, 
will attract many students who would not other
wise take the time and effort to vote.
On last Tuesday. March 3, two senators spent 
over two hours downtown at the election bureau, be
coming thoroughly educated about all the intricacies 
that go into setting up a ballot on a machine for a 
particular election, and the subsequent recording of 
the votes. They are very happy to report, though, 
that the process of voting on the machines is sur
prisingly simple. The procedure is based on the fol
lowing: All students of C-MU are in one of five con
stituenciesDormitory, AWS. Fraternity, Male 
Commuter, or Graduate Student. On the voting ma
chine are five rows corresponding to these consti
tuencies. When a voter arrives at a polling station, 
the attendant will determine his constituency, 
punch his ID card, and set a lever on the outside 
of the machine that allows the voter to register 
votes only in the row of his constituency. Votes are 
set on the machine by flipping small levers over the 
candidates names. While inside the poll, a voter 
may change a vote if he wishes. When he is finish
ed voting, he presses a red button which registers 
his vote permanently within the machine. The voter 
then exits and the next voter enters the poll. Since 
elections for College Council candidates will also 
take place at this time, these candidates are also 
listed in the machines. Only CIT voters will vote for 
the CIT canddidates, H&SS for the H&SS candidates 
and MMCC for the MMCC candidates.
An interesting feature which was not present in 
recent elections is the validity of write-in votes. 
This is managed on a machine by slide-away win
dows located at the top of the machine. A voter 
merely slides aside the window which is in the col
umn of the appropriate office and writes in his 
choice.
Even though it is thought that the voting proce
dure is not difficult, arrangements have been made 
to have a Demonstrator'' machine brought to Skibo sometime bn Monday. This machine will be open 
for students to practice" on. if they wish, all of 
Monday and Tuesday. Also, the compelete ballot, as 
it will appear in the machine will be printed in the 
Tuesday edition of the Tartan. Copies of this ballot 
will also be posted around campus on Monday.
Majors Discussed
Students with questions about departments or major options will 
be able to meet informally with representatives from all departments 
in CIT and H&SS on Tuesday, March 10, from 11:30 a.m. until 1:30 p.m. 
in the Staff Dining Room, lower level, Skibo.
Undergraduates, graduate students, and faculty members will rep
resent each department. This arrangement will hopefully provide a 
more balanced, comprehensive view of each course of study and its re
lated field than is otherwise available to the student.
This meeting is being sponsored by the Scimitar Society, C-MU's 
sophomore men's honorary. Free refreshments will be served.
Anyone interested in trying out for 
the VARSITY GOLF TEAM, meet in 
front of the Gymnasium at 12:15 
p.m. on March 16, 17, 18, and 31.
[SG announces POLLING TIMES 
and PLACES
K81O813m 3O1 T6DN13m 
F3N:6 --c6 3O1 -2c6
RGEs0 A0ssm k p3G8N ,3oo 
F0N8l001 A0ssm 
[y0OO8N ,3oo k .EO8 dNc po1I 
BE SURE TO BRING YOUR 
STUDENT ID CARD!
AU TIMES are 8:30 to 4:30-4JJ.
Important 
IM Meeting
|Tuesday at 12:30 p.m.j 
in Black Cat Lounge
: ? f ; JjdBB/R:600o 3O1 doo/Rc3N p3/ 
JG8cs3oo O0vEO3cE0O lEoo s8! 
{68o12
JACOB C. RABINOW
Vice President, Rabinow Laboratory
i0OcN0o y3c3 i0NY0N3cE0O 
will speak on
THE ART & BUSINESS 
OF INVENTING
RidB.Q ,dAA dnyBTehBnF 
Tuesday, March 10th 
11:30 a.m.
Mr. Rabinow is a highly successful 
inventor with 179 U.S. patents and 
numerous others pending. Among 
them are patents for the automatic 
regulation of clocks and watches 
used in all American automobile 
clocks today, many ordnance devic
es, and many inventions in the field 
of optical character recognition.
Among his more recent work is the 
development of automatic machinery 
for the sorting of letter mail for the 
Post Office Department.
In 1964 his own organization, Rabi
now Engineering Corporation be
came a wholly owned subsidiary of 
Control Data Corporation.
He is a member of the National In
ventor's Council and the recipient of 
many honors. Mr. Rabinow has giv
en much thought to how inventing is 
accomplished and how to test for in
venting ability.
Sponsored by the Departments of
Computer Science and Mechanical 
Engineering and by Hie 
Office of the Deqn, CIT
Bootleg Handbooks
*
Ten thousand copies of the McGill University Birth Control Hand
book, weighing close to a ton and destined for distribution by Student 
Senate to C-MU. Pitt and Chatham, have been picked up in London On
tario by Patrick Cavanagh and Vincent J. Misitano. Jr. Described in the 
Whole Earth Catalog as the most creative and informative booklet of 
its kind. the handbook's distribution in the United States has unfor
tunately been halted recently by the Customs Department.
Seeing the tremendous injustice of this deed, our dynamic duo has 
set out to outwit the American bureaucracy. In a nonce. Cavanagh and 
Misitano flew to London Wednesday night and rented a Canadian UHaul truck to transport the handbooks to Buffalo. There they hired a 
lawyer to fast talk, connive and otherwise flamboozle their way across 
the border. The handbooks are then to be transferred to an American 
truck and brought to beautiful downtown Pittsburgh.
The convoy should arrive today, grid willing, if the two are not jail
ed at the border.
International Fair
The International Fair is re
turning to C-MU on Wednesday 
and Thursday. March 11 and 12. 
This year it is sponsored by Phi 
Sigma Upsilon service sorority, 
in conjunction with the YM and 
YWCA and the C-MU Child Devel
opment Center. The fair will be 
held between 11:30 a.m. and 5 
p.m. in the lobby of Skibo. Pro
ceeds will go towards the procure
ment of transportation for chil
dren from the Hill District of * 
Pittsburgh who are presently "on 
scholarship'' at the Child Develop
ment Center.
The Fair will feature jewelry, 
collector's items, rugs, spreads, 
and many, many more hand-crafted items imported from all over 
the world. You'll find the unique, 
the unusual at the International 
Fair. Plan on stopping by the 11th ,'] 
and 12th of this month.
Cavanagh says:
What is good for General Motors 
... is good for General Motors.
Elusive God Found 
On Faith, by CMU Students
by Robert p2 Griffiths 
Professor of Physics
At the first meeting of the Ex
istance of God seminar on Mon
day night, two graduate students 
in Electrical Engineering discuss
ed some of the traditional argu
ments for God s existence and 
pointed out some serious difficul
ties in these arguments.
Pete Cook outlined the Ontolo
gical Argument (God as the 
Greatest Conceivable Being") 
and showed that it has numerous 
flaws. The Cosmological Argu
ment (God as "First Cause) was 
similarly disposed of, though with 
an even more technical discus
sion.
Mike Doreau showed greater 
sympathy towards the Argument 
from Religious Experience, 
though he too acknowledged seri
ous defects, in particular, how one 
judges the qualifications and reli
ability of someone who claims to 
have had a religious experience.
Towards the end of the seminar 
several members of the audience 
(which somewhat exceeded the 
comfortable capacity of the Lang 
Seminar Room) began to press 
the speakers, both of whom claim
to believe in God, with the ques
tion of why, since the traditional 
arguments are so defective, they 
have any grounds at all for believ
ing in God s existence.
The answers given were vague. 
Pete Cook said that he regarded 
God s existence as hypothesis, in 
some sense, comparable to those 
which occur in the sciences, which 
leads to observable consequences, 
in particular in the realm of mor
als and human personality, which 
are not adequately explained by 
alternative hypotheses (presum
ably including atheism). He did 
not spell out any observable con
sequences in detail.
The seminar meets again on 
Monday night, March 9, at 9 in the 
Lang Seminar Room, 115 MMCC, 
to hear David Wojick, a graduate 
student in philosophy at Pitt, pre
sent A Defense of Atheism. In 
light of the first seminar, it is 
not clear that atheism needs to be 
defended, though it may be that 
the proponents of God s existence 
are holding their better arguments 
in reserve for a counterattack af
ter Wojick s presentation, or for 
the final discussion in the series 
which takes place March 16.
.BAFR
 UNDERGROUND
 EXPERIMENTAL
 UNCONVENTIONAL
 NON-THEATRICAL
FILM MAKING AT C-MU
A meeting will be held at 7:30 on Monday, March 9th 
in Skibo Room 45 for all those people interested IN ANY 
WAY in Film and Film Making on this campus.
 C-MU LACKS A FILM CURRICULUM
 C-MU LACKS A FILM WORKSHOP
 FILM AT C-MU LACKS ORGANIZATION
Ba m0D :3O 3cc8O1 v88cEOIk:0Oc3:cX
PhQP idgAdUq FBKQ ,dhpdyBU 0N PQehPQ KUBRR 
EO y8Y3Ncv8Oc 0a g3EOcEOI 3O1 R:DoYcDN82
