TARJAN
March 29, 1977 Volume 77, Number 22 Carnegie-Mellon University Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213
TeachingEvaluationChanged
Michaels is 
Upset
by David S. Mongeau
The results of a one year research pro
gram and the results of a joint Faculty 
Senate/A Phi 0 Committee on Judging the 
Quality of Teaching at CMU have culmi
nated with the incorporation of a new 
teacher evaluation for this coming fall 
semester.
Incorporation of the new evaluation 
has been largely influenced by Stephen 
Michaels. Michaels, a fifth year psychology 
major, presented a proposal to President 
Cyert for a Teacher Evaluation Center in 
the summer of 1976. (The emphasis of 
his proposal lies with a need for an evalua
tion that will assist improvement in teach
ing by continuous teacher feedback; and 
that will assist academic decisions about 
institutional rewards [i.e., tenure and 
promotion]. The evaluation must be 
administered by a proctor. In brief, the 
proposal cites the need for an evaluation 
that gives comparative information about 
teachers. See box on page, 6.) Cyerts 
request that the Faculty Senate consider 
the proposal led to the formation of the 
present joint committee with A Phi 0.
This committee has not fully adopted 
Michaels plan. It has, however, recognized 
his suggestion for the incorporation of a 
University of Pittsburgh evaluation form. 
John Hayes, Faculty Senate member of
continued on page 6New Listings 
For Projects
A new service is being offered by a de
velopment and research center in Greensburg, Pennsylvania, called Unproject Re
gister Service. The center publishes a list
ing of all proposals that have been refused 
funding by government agencies, private 
agencies, foundations and industry. Ac
cording to C. J. Holway, Administrative 
Vice President and one of the founders of 
the new center, the listing will provide a 
protection of all research ideas against 
subsequent plagiarism. It also constitutes 
a more comprehensive repository of 
scientific and technical information than 
the federally sponsored counterpart, the 
Smithsonian Science Information Ex
change (SSIE).
Since federal agencies currently fund 
less than 10% of all proposals submitted, 
the Unproject Register Service has a po
tential resource over ten times greater than 
the SSIE.
Today, scientists, engineers, and other 
researchers are spending untold sums of 
money and hours in deveoping projects 
which are not funded, says Holway, and 
this massive scientific effort becomes lost 
with respect to its contribution to science 
and technology. The main purpose of the 
Unproject Register Service is to make a 
first step toward salvaging this scientific 
and technical effort.
The registry of proposals will be a bene
fit to individual researchers and industries 
whose ideas often become plagiarized by 
continued on page 9
LUBON WINS
by Sherry Siegel
In a telephone interview conducted at 
2:30 on Saturday morning, John Lubon 
spoke about his victory in the Student 
Government Presidential race. I was really 
happytotally surprised. I came over to 
the [Student Senate] office after my last 
class, at 3:30, and Peter Yacoe walked up 
to me and shook my hand. I didnt expect 
to find out [so soon]  Im very anxious to 
jump right in.
Lubon had been told by Yacoe (this 
continued on page 8
New Dorm 
To Be Built
by Amy Boyle
In an executive committee meeting on 
March 21, the Trustees approved a plan to 
build a new dormitory in an effort to 
alleviate the Universitys housing problem. 
Jim Pedone, the architect who directed the 
recent renovation of the Tartan Grill, will 
design CMUs new dormitory.
A committee consisting of two faculty 
members (one each from the Architecture 
and Design Departments), a representative 
from the Student Affairs Office, a member 
of the Enrollment Planning Staff, and one 
student from either the Architecture or 
Design Department, will act as clients and 
work with the architect to develop the 
plan.
The student member of the committee 
will not be chosen for an ability to rep
resent student opinion, but rather for 
proficiency in the field of housing. To get 
an idea of what students want, the commit
tee will use the results of the Auxiliary 
Services questionnaire, distributed to stu
dents several weeks ago. William Dillon, 
Director of Auxiliary Services, and Robert 
Heath, Director of Housing, have been 
visiting dormitories at other universities, 
and will also make suggestions to the 
committee.
Dillon said, all student input will have 
to come before the end of this semester, 
continued on page 7
Leslie Cox, Spirit Coordinator, between Danni Smith and Barney Wilson, candidates for his job.
Spirit Elections Today
by Elliot Ohlberg
Spirit is holding its annual elections to
day. This organization, started in 1968 
and funded by Student Senate, is com
posed of minority students at CMU. 
According to Leslie Cox, this past years 
Coordinator, Spirits goals are to provide 
the minority members on campus with 
an outlet for fellowship, and to present a 
unified voice for expressing minority stu
dents views on campus-related affairs. 
There are about 100 members this year 
who have paid the one dollar dues, but Cox 
stresses that all minority students can vote 
in this election. (Hopefully, this will be 
accompanied by an increase in member
ship.) Voting is taking place at the C-MAP 
complex, on the fourth floor of Margaret 
Morrison Hall. The offices of Coordinator, 
Co-coordinator, Secretary and Treasurer 
are up for election.
Danielle (Danni) Smith and Barney
Wilson are the two candidates running for 
Coordinator. Both candidates strongly 
favor the restoration of Spirit House, 
which is a cooperative living unit used by 
the organization. The windows and bath
rooms need improvement, and more pleas
ing furnishings are desired. Having more 
cultural events was another goal mentioned 
by both candidates.
Danni is outspoken about race relations 
on campus and feels that there are not 
enough black faculty members. She feels 
the mission of Spirit is to provide educa
tional opportunities in the form of cultural 
and aesthetic events for enriching the learn
ing environment and experience of both 
Spirits members and the C-MU campus. 
She continued, we have too much talent 
among the minorities on this campus going 
to waste. It is time to reassess our function 
as minorities at Carnegie-Mellon.
continu! on page 8
news
The most obvious reflection of the 
Universitys goals can be seen in the 
selection of our excellent faculty. 
But the question is, in what are 
they excellent? Stephen Michaels, from an 
open letter (page 6).
Despite 300 refunds on ABs March
18 concert, David Shatz said that 
Carnegie-Mellon will still be able to 
afford Pure Prairie League for its 
Spring Carnival Concert (page 7).
According to the current definition, 
a full-time student is any graduate or 
undergraduate who has completed the 
enrollment process - having thus 
met all financial obligations to the 
University, including the activities fee - 
and who is registered for 36 or more 
units (page 7).
The dramatic increase in funding for the 
college work-study program will 
create more opportunities for students 
seeking employment (page 9).
Week in Review - Carter submits plan for 
direct election and the abolition of the 
electoral college (page 5).
entertainment
The AB Concert Committee has 
finalized their plans for this years
Spring Carnival. Pur Prairie League 
will headline with Joan Armatrading 
backing up the bill. AB was 
fortunate to secure such a renoun group 
as Pure Prairie League, but Joan 
Armatrading can hardly be thought 
of as just another supporting
act (page 13).
One of the best products of the fusion 
of jazz and rock styles was a 1973 
album by Brian Auger and the Oblivion
Express, Closer to it!. Succeeding
albums have failed to match
that mark of excellence, but the groups 
seventh release, Happiness Heartaches, 
is nontheless a good album (page 15).
Flora Purim sings like no one else. Her 
voice uce is unsurpassed in its crystalline 
purity and precision. She is probably the 
only living jazz singer who can truly use 
her voice as an instrument... (page 16).
sports
This week, Sports features a buggy pre
view, the fencing team finale, the tennis 
team opener, a chess problem and IJf*. 
results and standings for the week.
and...
Its time to think about Final Exams. 
Dates and rooms listed for all classes (page 
10).
Announcements (page 4).
Events (page 14),

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN
Simple Trade School 
67 Years Later
C-MU is rapidly growing, and changing just as quickly. 
Although projections as to size differ in rationale, all agree 
that this university, given its wide repute and high standards 
for admission, is capable of sustained growth or maintenance 
whichever it chooses. The choice also exists, and has been 
made, to change the universitys self-image and definition. 
As this is no longer the simple trade school of 1910, so it is 
no longer a small college. This is an important university, 
whose activities exert influence in the greater academic 
community and beyond. Dr. Cyert has stated and shown 
through his actions that C-MU will develop new schools, 
departments, programs, and options to fill the needs not 
being met by existing academic establishments, but based 
on the strengths the university possesses. We are becoming 
interdisciplinarians.
To successfully achieve this type of directed expansion, 
consistency of policy and its administration, as well as 
cooperation among of the groups involved, is essential. This 
is being achieved academically, but coordination among 
direct service departments is lagging behind. C-MU still 
perceives its physicality to be that of a small-town college, 
self-contained, self-reliant, and self-responsible. When it is 
revealed that such is no longer the case, e.g., when shortages 
of on-campus housing develop, or when food service becomes 
competitive, there is sup rise, disappointment, and anger. 
Quick solutions are devised to deal with the current prpblem, 
but the conceptual adjustment does not occur. A case in 
point is the Shirley-Webster-Mellon colony. University 
colonialism is not a new issue, and the moral question of 
buying out neighborhoods is moot. The manner of occupa
tion is at issue here, and the consequences for the university 
itself. Students who prefer to occupy on-campus housing 
may, through chance or choice (students with classes at 
Mellon are encouraged to reside here), come to live either 
in the Shirley Apartments or the Webster Hall motel. Their 
requirements for living space are satisfied, but they have 
little access to a food supply, and even less with the main 
campus on Forbes. Students who live in one of the less 
remote dormitories and have classes at Mellon Institute, are 
frustrated when the ten minutes alloted between scheduled 
classes are not sufficient to travel back and forth, especially 
in the winter months. These are not insurmountable prob
lems, but their solution requires a broader understanding 
of their source. First, in an area in which so much apartment 
space is available, do upperclassmen and graduate students 
prefer to live in the generally more-expensive, smaller rooms 
with no cooking space provided by the university? It may be 
because the effort required to locate such a place is very 
great, especially if one is new to the area and has little time
to relocate. Flousing could alleviate much of its overcrowd
ing by developing a search service for these people; in many 
instances, students will be willing to pay for the help. 
Another ' reason may be that provisions for commuting 
students are insufficient. If that is indeed the case, these 
problems should be recognized and solved. If it remains 
necessary to accomodate students in pinch-hit dwellings, 
the university should find a means by which the students 
can remain functional members of the CMU community. An 
important social gathering is the habitual sharing of dinner. 
Rather than considering new food service in off-campus 
areas, existing facilities could be made to suffice if transpor
tation were readily available. PA T is clearly unreliable and 
does not even provide direct routing, and the expense of 
busing is high for the individual, but less so for the group. 
A shuttle bus, perhaps financed by those who use it, could 
make the trip repeatedly during the day, and on schedule 
during th evening, to open the cafeterias, libraries, and labs 
to those who would not otherwise be able to return to 
campus. This ability is not a privilege  it is a right of those 
who pay to live here. If physical togetherness is impossible 
at C-MU, these and other means of keeping peers in contact 
are vital; particularly if the stated goal of providing a broadbased, though specialized education, is to be achieved. It 
is very convenient to allow secondary concerns lie dormant 
and stagnate while concentrating on the primary issues. 
But lack of attention in one area often leads to failure in all.
Paula Maris Shubock 
Editor
Letters
JOE-JERK
Editor:
I was rather offended by an 
article in last weeks Tartan writ
ten by a visitor, Steven Dubow, 
from the University of Pennsyl
vania. I cannot blame the visitor 
for most of the ignorant, derrogatory comments in his article 
because most of them were made 
as a result of the answers his 
friend, (CMU student), gave him 
when he questioned Joe-CMU 
about campus life.
I was offended because the 
visitor was sent away thinking 
that CMU is probably the ultimate 
in boring schools in America, and 
I personally dont think this is 
so. I agree that this school is a 
difficult one, and most of us 
spend a great deal of our time 
working. I feel it is also true that 
many of us actually enjoy our 
work (not a common symptom 
in all colleges!) However, not 
everyone spends their Friday 
nights drooling over computers. 
True, there are many computer 
nerds who walk, talk, party and
breathe COMPUTER, but there 
are also plenty more of us who, 
after a long hard weeks work, 
either see a movie, go to an SDC 
dance, a concert, a fraternity par
ty or engage in any of the 
multiple of campus parties and 
events in Pittsburgh.
As far as the visitors kind 
words to the women at CMU go, 
believe it or not, hidden in the 
most bizarre places, (like the 
Grill, the dorms and the cut!), 
there are some, (many) truly 
decent female human beings to be 
found. And furthermore, CMU 
guys have a hell of a lot of nerve 
passing such severe judgement 
on the females. Steves friend 
must be Joe-Prince Charming 
as well as Joe-Nerd!
About that lonely Saturday 
morning walk Steve took, first of 
all, many of us sleep on Saturday 
mornings to catch up on sleep we 
lost during the week while work
ing, and the sleep we lost the 
night before from carousing to 
relax after such a tiring week! 
Many others are in fact working 
to make the evening free to relax
again and get psyched for another 
intense week. Steven should also 
take a walk on the cut, not on a 
dreary, about-to-rain morning, but 
on a 70 degree sunny morning 
where hed be delighted to see 
flying frisbees and footballs, and 
kids sitting and talking on the cut 
and in the park.
I personally like it here at CMU 
and NOT because Im having a 
clandestine love affair with my 
calculator or canvas as the case 
may be, OR because I party day 
and night. Its a good place to 
learn and enjoy learning as well 
as meeting a hell of a lot of really 
decent people. Im sorry that JoeCMU didnt provide a very fair 
view to Steven Dubow!
Leslie Hershberg 
REFRAIN
Editor:
Only one issue of the TARTAN 
under new management, and I can 
already see a change in format. I 
am speaking of the electioneering 
in the editorial. This dandy col
umn, usually used to express 
grievances or bring something to
TARTAN
Volume 77March 29, 1977Number 22
Editor in Chief: Paula Maris Shubock
Managing Editor: David G. Roussos 
Business Manager: Joe Loughran 
News Editor: Sherry Siegel 
Entertainment Editor: Ca*ey Childs 
Folio Editor: Jeff Zasiow 
Sports Editor: Tom Binnie 
Photography Editor: Elliot Popowitz
*
Production Hd: Vivian Kerstein
Staff Photographers: Skip Brazelton, Rajah Chacko, Bob Cziryak, T&d Dickenson, Tim Fabian, Michael Fryd, 
Chris Heck, Courtney Larson, VRV Ramanan, Ken Ream, Chris Roussi, Fred Shamlian, Susanne Wilson
Copyright 1977 by the Carnegie-Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit or 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Govern
ment of Carnegie -Mellon University. Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; (412) 621- 
2600 ext. 656 or 481. Business Offices: Skibo 52; (412) 682-4557.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

---------------------------------------------------

more LettersVIEWS
light , suddenly becomes a place 
for you to express political opin
ions. While this might be justifi
able (though not desirable) if 
there was more than one paper on 
campus, I feel that such a singular
ly powerful medium should not 
be used for this purpose. Surely 
we can obtain as much relevant 
information about Don Simon 
from The Candidates Speak Out 
as you have; we can do without 
your irrelevant analysis.
Offhand. I would say that you 
have read too much of Pittsburghs 
newspapers and not enough of 
more impartial ones. I would 
appreciate it if you tried to re
frain from further actions along 
these lines.
Don Provan
RALLY 'ROUND SAM 
Editor:
I am a freshman of CMU whos 
name is currently on the Housing 
Office waiting list for those who
hope to receive on-campus
housing accomodations for the 
77-78 school year. I have just
read your March 22 article
stating that I will probably be 
denied a room next year. I am 
appalled.
I have lived in the school dorm
itories this year and the thought 
that my place here on campus 
must be surrendered to next 
years incoming freshman horde
angers me very much. I have 
been at CMU just one year and 
already I am certain that what 
remaining time I spend here could 
only anger me more.
CMU is run like a big-business establishment--if it can profit 
by screwing you it screws you. 
This applies to the areas of tui
tion, financial aid, housing, food 
sevice, and most others. I, for 
one, am angry enough to attend 
Sam Gregos proposed student 
rally: I am certain that he could 
arrange the event easily through 
the SDC network. The success of 
such a rally depends upon the 
students of CMU; once we shake 
off our apathy Im sure that a 
growing awareness will bring 
growing concern, then anger, 
then...change?
A Freshman 
NOT THERAPISTS
Editor:
It seems that most students 
dont really know what Peer Help 
is all about, so wed like to clear 
the matter up a little for those 
who are muddled.
Many students think we are 
only the Tutoring Service. While 
we do provide a tutoring service, 
this is not our primary func
tion. Basically, were paraprofessional counselors. This 
shoots down another common 
myth: that were a bunch of 
psych majors practicing on stu
dentsnot quite right. First of 
all, most of us are not psychology 
majors. And second, clinical psy
chology is not emphasized at 
Carnegie-Mellon, so there is not 
much that the psychology majors 
can practice.
What exactly are we? We are 
students who are interested in
helping other student in whatever 
ways we can. Primarily, we are 
para-professional counselors. We 
are not therapists; we do not 
give advice or direct students 
behavior. We are trained to listen: 
we are someone a student can 
come and let out whatevers in
side , in complete confidence. 
We provide a sympathetic ear, and 
try to help the student under
stand himself and solve the pro
blem himself.
We also provide other services 
to the campus. We provide free 
tutoring services. We have a 
Student Health Service which 
helps students who need aid. We 
can also give referrals to other 
organization which might be able 
to help students better than we 
can.
But wed like to do more. As 
I said, were students trying to 
help the campus community how
ever we can. So wed like to hear 
some suggestions from you, the 
campus, on other ways we can 
help you. What other needs can 
we fill?
For example, weve had an in
quiry from a Resident Assistant 
on providing relaxation tech
niques for the students. Wes like 
more suggestions on ways we can 
help the students. If you have any 
suggestions or hints, or are curious 
about us, stop by the Peer Help 
office at 150-A Baker Hall, or 
call 621-9900. Were here for you, 
so take advantage of us. Peer Help 
can be an opportunity for learning 
and growing, not only for the 
members, but for the students 
it serves.
those who are not Christians. 
However, we can compare our 
motivations to those of someone 
who sees the light of safety 
after stumbling for days in a cave. 
He is no better than those still 
lost in the cave--he simply knows 
the way out. With this knowledge 
comes the desire and, indeed, the 
duty to show the Way to others 
who are still lost. We believe 
that unless one is saved by accep
ting the gift of salvation from 
Jesus Christ, he must endure an 
eternity of agony and we, as 
Christians, must tell them this 
before it is too late.
Editor:
Rick Schroeder 
WARNING
The Peer Help Center
AND MORE FRUITS 
Editor:
The recent letters concerning 
the multitude of fruits on this 
campus have caused me an un
measurable, that is, infinite, 
amount of sorrow and pain. Until 
this letter was published, I was 
well on the way to a challenging 
and profitable career. I had eight 
job offers ranging from 1330/mo. 
to 1420/mo.
When this letter was published, 
all offers were withdrawn and 
smaller offers sent, with the pro
viso that I provide positive 
proof of my sexual inclinations 
(as fruits, vegetables, one legged 
women or drosophila melanogaster). As I have been severely 
maligned because of these letters, 
I am holding the Tartan and the 
University responsible and Im 
asking for damages in the amount 
of $2 x 10^ (2 million bucks). 
Settle now or see you in court.
Efram Zimbalist Jr.
PS. I aint no fruit. I bes a 
tutti frutti.
Editor:
DAYS IN A CAVE
I would like to reply, on behalf 
of all Christians, to the letter 
asking why we are so eager to 
share the message of Jesus Christ 
with others and see them accept 
this message. Let me assure the 
writer that we do not believe our
selves superior in any way to
In response to the freshman 
who is looking for an honest 
answer about Christians:
First of all as a Christian 
myself who is also guilty of an 
intense desire to see other people 
become Christians, I dont think 
that you are a Christian hater or a 
bigot. I was really glad to read 
your letter and I respect your 
sincerity.
The reason that your Chris
tian friends are trying to 
convert you is because Chris
tians believe that their faith is 
the truth, and because their 
relationship with God has dramat
ically changed their lives for the 
better.
Christians are not just inter
ested in saving your soul. That 
is part of it, but not the whole 
story. Your friends are undoubt
edly interested in you as a whole 
person. Christians do not think 
they are better than other people, 
but they do believe that they 
know something that could make 
a tremendous difference in your 
life.
If Christianity is the truth, 
then your decision to accept it 
or reject it can have either infin
itely wonderful or infinitely disas
trous consequences. Realizing 
this, your Christian friends want 
you to be aware of what you are 
getting into.
. If your friend was in a burning 
house, wouldnt it be cruel of 
you not to warn him?
Bonnie LaVallee
OF MICE AND MEN 
Editor:
This letter, like many others, is 
prompted by the recent uproar 
over the Fruits letter which 
appeared recently in the T ART AN. 
Now, I feel that it is my turn to 
say something.
Presently, I am a freshman in 
engineering, and though I havent 
been at CMU for a long time, I 
feel Ive seen and heard enough to 
know what this place is really like.
I should point out here that 
because of what I know, I have 
decided to leave Carnegie-Mellon. 
Probably no great loss. Im sure 
that this school has seen more 
people come and go than Ill 
ever meet in a lifetime.
When I first came to CMU last 
April for an interview and tour of 
the campus, I was not particularly 
apprehensive or nervous. The
counselor and guide were both 
very nice, apparently bent on 
pleasing this freshman applicant. 
And so, because of what I had 
heard from others, from what I 
had been told during the interview 
and from my own research and 
planning I decided that CarnegieMellon would be a good place to 
spend four years.
Now, I wish this was true. 
Like so many other old adages 
that come creeping out of some 
ancient closet, the one that says, 
The best laid plans of mice and 
men often go afoul suddenly 
had an uncomfortably clear mean
ing for me. CMU was not what I 
had expected.
So, what of it? As mentioned 
before, this place has seen many 
come and go. But I think CMU is 
unique. It is unique because I 
have seen more angry, frustrated, 
depressed people on this campus 
than I have ever seen before. 
Some can chalk it up to being 
naive, that I have led a sheltered 
existence. I can assure you, this 
is not the case.
Well then, what are my com
plaints? Let me explain. CarnegieMellon, obviously, is an institu
tion and any institution is made 
up of people. Most institutions, 
just as people, reflect certain 
characteristics. Unfortunately, 
the outstanding characteristics of 
CMU are somewhat questionable.
The first of these characteristics 
reveals itself as a sort of split per
sonality. On one hand there is a 
very creative school of Fine Arts, 
and on the other hand there is an 
equally creative school devoted to 
engineering and science. Undeni
ably, CMU has an excellent 
reputation in both areas, yet they 
fight and bicker as if they were 
two old ladies squabbling over a 
department store special. This 
rivalry has worked itself down 
from the faculty to the student 
level where we hear people refer
red to as fags and nerds.
Next, there is the ever present 
subject of money. Will I get a 
high salary when I get out? How 
much will the administration rip 
us off for this year? Would Dick 
Cyert REALLY hunt the Cut for 
pennies? Never have I heard the 
subject of money brought up so 
often by so many people at any 
other university I have visited.
And then there is H&SS. What 
could be a neutral ground for 
both fine arts and engineering 
students, not to mention a liberal 
arts school, has turned into the 
most maligned part of the univer
sity. The required courses in 
H&SS are called useless by far too 
many on this campus. The sad
dest part of all is that the adminis
tration encourages this attitude 
by saying naively, We dont 
need a college of liberal arts. 
Whatever happened to the idea of 
a broadly based education? Are 
we so perfect that it has become 
unnecessary?
But these things are almost 
minor when the real problem is 
analyzed. You see, this problem 
and its various manifestations do 
not lie with a department head or 
even the president of the univer
sity. It lies with the students. 
While I was still a senior in high
school I received a pamphlet 
entitled, Carnegie-Mellon, A 
Very Personal Experience. It is 
ironic that I have found anything 
but a personal experience. Yes, 
there are friendships, but how 
many friendships are restricted to 
cliques and departmental bound
aries? How many people simply 
do not have friends? Or is the so 
called college experience 
merely having a book in hand?
We are told that we are the 
future of our society, the bright, 
young, dynamic force behind its 
success. We have certainly ac
cepted the responsibility to change 
it and make it better, but what 
happened to that responsibility 
at CMU? Or are we just going to 
fall into the small, petty ways 
that occurred all too often in the 
past? We say it is wrong to call 
blacks niggers, yet we wont 
hesitate to label artists fags. We 
decry the position of the allpowerful dollar, and yet how 
many of us admit coming to 
Carnegie-Mellon because of its 
reputation for attracting highpaying employers? We speak of 
the value of human life, yet we 
are just as quick to point out the 
supposedly high suicide rate as if 
it was some crowning glory. We 
demand unity, yet we categorize 
ourselves as being artists or 
engineers. We ask respect from 
one another, yet we do not grant 
that respect which we claim is so 
rightfully our own.
And so we go on in our own 
private little world, the artists 
kissing and hugging, the engi
neers nerding. We shout for 
something. Yet all our shouting 
amounts to 4000 different voices 
calling for 4000 different things, 
for 4000 different little worlds. 
We all go on leading our own 
individual personal experiences, 
calling ourselves independent 
and excluding 3,999 others.
Look at yourselves and this 
school. What do YOU want? It 
is YOU because the WE is no 
longer true. What I want and 
need is not here, and I doubt 
that very many people find what 
they want in a place lacking unity 
such as this. Some say Im run
ning. But walking would be a 
better comparison. You can think 
more when you walk, and Lord 
knows, Ive thought about this 
enough.
Tolerance, respect, cooperation 
and concern are rare birds on this 
campus. Unless something is 
done, Carnegie-Mellon will die. 
Not suddenly, not catastrophical
ly, but subtly and slowly. And if 
it does happen it probably wont 
disappear, it will just turn out 
more artists and engineers who are 
less fit to contribute. And no 
budgeting plan, no new election, 
no letter to the editor will save 
it. Not even the higher-ups in the 
administration will be able to 
prevent it, and for one reason - it 
lies with YOU, the student. Only 
your initiative and concern wi1 
make this place what it can
It will take some tin" 
change, just as all change 
you want it. If not, well, 
your choice.
Ralph M. Nigro

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTS^CLASSIFIED ADS
DEADLINE: NOON WEDNESDAY!
Classified rate: $1.00 for every 15 words. 
Announcements are printed FREE.
general
The spring semester deadline for an H&SS
student to drop one course without penal
ty is APRIL 1 (BEFORE SPRING RE
CESS). Requests received after that date 
will not be honored.
Hunt Library: 
Spring Recess
April 1-2
April 3 
April 4-9
April 10 
April 11
Spring Carnival
April 22-23 
April 24 
Extended hours
April 27 - May 9
Regular hours opening, 
close 5:00 p.m. 
Closed
Regular hours opening, 
close 5:00 p.m. 
Closed
Regular hours resume
Regular hours opening, 
close 5:00 p.m. 
Regular hours resume
Opening 8:00 a.m., 
closing 2:00 a.m.
The custodians have been directed to re
move all posters and announcements that 
are not placed in appropriate poster areas. 
To save yourselves posters, money and 
time we will appreciate your assistance in 
adhering to the posting regulation.
The designeated poster areas in Skibo are 
as follows:
1. All carpeted gray matter in the 
Lobby.
2. Carpeted kiosks in the Tartan
Grill. .
3. Wood area to the right and left 
of the Info Desk.
4. Wood area next to Entropy
5. White wall area to left of parking 
lot entrance.
If you have any suggestions about potential 
areas to be designated as authorized post
ing areas, please let the Department of Stu
dent Activities at 103 Skibo know.
Notice: students with complaints, ques
tions, compliments, and suggestions, are 
welcome to bring them to the April 14th 
meeting of Student Senate at 5:30 pm in 
the Wherrett Room. President Cyert will 
be there to hear what YOU have to say. 
All are encouraged to attend.
EXIT INTERVIEWS FOR ALL MAY,
1977 GRADUATES with National De
fense/Direct Stjdent Loans and/or Institu
tional Loans will be held from April 11th 
to April 22nd. The interviews will be sche
duled as follows:
Room 11 
Skibo
April 11-15
4/11/77 M 10:30 am-11:30 am
4/12/77 T 1.30 pm-3:30 pm
4/13/77 W 10:30 arn-TI :30 am
4/14/77 Th 1:30 pm-3:30 pm
4/15/77 F 10:30 am-11:30 am
April 18-22
4/18/77 M 1:30 pm-3:30 pm
4/19/77 T 9:30 am-11:30 am
4/20/77 W 1:30 pm-3:30 pm
4/21/77 Th ,9:30 am-11.30 am
4/22/77 F * 1:30 pm-3:30 pm
For more information please call Mrs. Balsano 621-2600 ext. 219 or come to the 
Cashier's Office, Warner Hall Concourse.
The final exam for 82-107 Programmed
French has been scheduled for Friday, 
May 6, 1:30 pm-4:30 pm in Baker Hall
^K&V.WV y.VSfcN- .3s
ENTROPY will be closed for the Spring
break. We will close on Friday April 1st 
at 5 p.m. and will reopen on Sunday April 
10th at 5 p.m.
Architecture Forum: Carolyn Weesner will
speak on "Habitat: Vancouver, 1976", on 
Wednesday, March 30, at 3:30 pm, in the 
Faculty Lounge of the College of Fine 
Arts.
John P. Crecine, Dean of the College of
Humanities & Social Sciences will have 
open office hours for students, Tuesdays 
from 1:30 to 5:00.
We're ready for you, but are you ready
for us. FOLIO, the TARTAN's bi-weekly 
magazine, is looking for new writers, 
artists, and all round nice people. We're 
ready, are you?
The first of SARC's five Financial Planning
Seminars was held last Wednesday evening. 
Guest speakers Gary Fiedler, a 1969 AMS 
graduate, and Joseph Curtin, an expert on 
personal banking, gave detailed presenta
tions on budgeting and loans.
Mr. Fiedler, assistant vice president of Mel
lon Bank, talked about money manage
ment for the young graduate. He discussed 
money-planning techniques basic to surviv
al in an inflationary environment and 
stressed the importance of planning now 
for future financial security.
Although establishing credit may initially 
prove difficult, Mr. Curtin offered some 
helpful suggestions for money-earning 
beginners. In addition, he explained the 
various loan categories as well as recent 
legislation designed to protect the loansecuring consumer.
Student reaction to the program was en
thusiastic. Comments ranged from "very 
helpful now and in the future'' to . . 
this kind of information would.be help
ful for anyone at any time."
The second lecture of the series, "The 
Stock Market: What's Your Move?, will 
be presented tomorrow, March 30, at 
7:30 p.m. in Hunt Library multi-purpose 
room.
A Biological Sciences Department office
has been opened in room 2311 of Doherty 
Hall. It will be staffed on Monday, Wednes
day and Friday from 11:30 a.m. until 1:00 
p.m., and on Tuesday and Thursday from 
11:30 a.m. until 1:30 p.m. Please stop in 
for information or assistance, or, if you 
wish, telephone on Ext. 8608.
The office is primarily for undergraduate 
biology majors, but others taking biology 
courses, or interested in future courses are 
cordially welcome. Freshman are particu
larly urged to stop in if they have questions 
concerning a major in biology.
'The Stock Market: What's Your Move?"
is the topic of this week's lecture and dis
cussion, one of SARC's Financial Planning 
Seminars. The program begins at 7:30 p.m. 
tomorrow, March 30, in the Hunt Library 
multi-purpose room (entrance on Frew St. 
Refreshments will be served. Free and open 
to the campus community.
Spring Carnival Rides Committee will have
4-6 paid positions selling ride tickets dui ing 
carnival. Pay is $2.25 an hour and each 
person must be willing to work at least 8 
hours during the 3 days of carnival (4/21, 
22,23). Please leave your name and phone 
at the Skibo Info desk for Mike Katz. A 
reference from a campus source might be 
requested.
The Carnegie Tech Radio Club will hold its
next meeting on Wednesday March 30th at 
6 pm in the Club Radio Room in Hamerschlag Hall Room 401. The meeting is open 
to the campus; you don't need an engineer
ing degree to attend, just an interest in 
radio, electronics or talking.
Ascent of Man, a weekly documentary film
series, presents World Within World (Inside 
the Atom) today, March 29. The film will 
be shown in the Wherrett Room, Skibo at 
11:30 and 12:30. The next presentation 
will be Knowledge or Certainty (Probabili
ty or Uncertainty) on April 12. Campus 
Program Planning sponsors the series. Fac
ulty, students and friends are welcome. 
"Bring your lunch and a friend."
Student Senate will be in session in the
Wherrett Room on Thursday, March 31, 
at 5:30 p.m. All are invited.
Apply for A. Phi. O's K.D.S. Scholarship.
Open to any non-A.Phi.O. member or 
pledge. Based on friendship, leadership, 
or service. Get applications from Skibo 
Info. Desk or Rita Rettger (683-9786).
The THISTLE staff will be taking pictures
for the yearbook of all student organiza
tions from April 11-15. Please choose a 
convenient time for your group and notify 
us of this before April 1. We can be con
tacted by either calling Deb Brannick at 
687-4858 or by leaving a message in the 
THISTLE mailbox at the Skibo Informa
tion desk.
We want people who want to work. The
weekly production of the TARTAN is 
not a job for one person, so we're looking 
for more. A production staff of designers, 
artists, or anyone with an aesthetic eye 
promises a better looking paper. What we 
offer in return is experience and knowledge 
more practical than any written text. We'll 
teach you how to make the TARTAN.
The Alternative - a coffee house. Friday,
April 1, 7 pm-midnight. Closed - Good 
Friday. Next - April 22, *4515 Forbes.
Thursday, April 28, 3:30 pm, Dr. Richard
Warren, Psychology Department, Universi
ty of Wisconsin. Some Research in Audito
ry Illusions, BH 340-A.
An Open House for the Pittsburgh Organ
ization for Childbirth Education scheduled 
for March 22 at the Northway Mall has 
been postponed to April 27 at 8:00 p.m. 
The primary purpose of this Open House is 
to provide information about educated 
childbirth through a panel discussion and 
the excellent film "The Story of Eric." 
On the panel will be POCE instructors who 
are willing to share their birth experience 
with others interested in -tamaze birtjp. 
Speakers will be available to answer ques
tions on nutrition, breastfeeding, and 
parenting. Light refreshments will be 
served and free packets containing inter
esting prenatal information will be dis
tributed.
Information about POCE classes and 
activities is available by calling 243-7623.
For Students, Faculty and Staff -
B'nai B'rith Hillel will hold one sedar 
on the second night of Passover, April 3; 
Passover meals will be served Monday, 
April 4 through Sunday, April 10. 
Home Hospitality is available. 
For more information and to make 
reservations for sedar or meals, please 
call the Hillel office, 621-8875.
classified
Complete and competent wedding
photograDhic coverage in color. Album 
with twenty pictures 8" x 10" for 
$150.00. Some dates open. Call 523-5660 
after 7 pm. weekdays, anytime weekend.
For Sale: 35 mm Canon EF w/ 50 mm 1.4
24 mm 2.8, 100-200 zoom 5.6 w/ cases. 
Phone 793-9047 or 795-5087. 4-8 PM. 
Vlichael Fiore, 139 Kim Lane, Verona, 
Pa. 15147.
Lost. SR52 Calculator. $50 reward. Call
Richard at 621-2600 X 8846 or 687-7615 
evenings.
Spring without quality sound? Don't pay
retail prices: sales representative for 20 
wholesalers will beat anybody's factual 
quotes. All components shipped factory 
sealed and warranted. Cliff room 307, 
682-9950.
Pittsburgh Symphony. Have subscription
series for 1977-78, Friday evenings; wish 
to share it. Two excellent seats (orchestra, 
on the aisle). Tel. 521-1443
Summer Sublet - May through August 2
bdr, 2 bath. All utilities, furnished 687- 
8697. 
Rent-Free Apartment, two bedrooms and
bath available summer months to reliable 
young married couple or two girls for 
house-sitting; in conveniently located pro
fessor's home. Ext. 242 or 375.
Excellent opportunities for college stu
dents to qualify as stock-broker or real 
estate salesperson-and to earn income 
while attending college. Financial Estate 
Institute is offering evening classes to 
qualify as stock-broker ($240.00 Tuition) 
and Saturday classes to qualify as real 
estate salesperon ($150.00 Tuition). 
'241-6011 373-3300.
Typing -- CC Theses, Dissertations, term
papers, etc. Ask about free copying service. 
Call Janice 421-6483
Faculty or graduate Students. Adults
Only. Sq Hill. Completely furnished. 
Luxury 2nd Floor Duplex-4 bedrooms,
2 baths, patio, laundry & storage. Conve
nient to shopping and transportation. 
C/2 block from bus stop -- 8jnin. bicycle 
ride). Year Lease -- Available July 1st. 
$485.00 plus utilities. Phone: 521-6870.
Typing Guarantee. Save my number for
future jobs-PICA, ELITE, SYMBOL, 
ITALICS. Mary. 761-8584
Self-Defense training for women taught
by Feminist Karate Union. Classes begin 
4/4. 276-4527,521-0902.
EUROPE via PanAm for Less than V2
economy fare. Call toll free (6-9 pm) 
(800) 325-4867 or see your travel agent. 
60-day advance payment required. UniTravel Charters.
Summer Rental: July and/or August
Shadyside Area. 3 bedrooms, fully fur
nished, wall to wall carpeting, modern Eatin kitchen with: '"'electric stove, dish
washer, garbage disposal. Price: under
$299* including utilities (price is nego
tiable). Call: Roger or Jeff at 681-6567 or 
Adam at 621-1994.
Dear Moderate Income Male,
The best wines are French wines.
Guess who
Doctoral student needs place to live for the
summer. No roommates. Would like to 
take care of a faculty house. 621-5419, Mr. 
Baybars.
EUROPE - Flexibly and inexpensively. Call
European Flights toll-free 1-800-848-0786
Looking for a renter this summer? Call col
lect (608) 257-9702 after 6 before April 1.
GSIA student needs roommate(s) for Sep
tember. Personal habits (cleanliness) and 
predisposition favors females, but males 
acceptable. If interested, call Mike @ 361- 
3048.
CORRECTION: Charles Parks, nationally
famous artist will be displaying his work 
AprH 1 through 22, not April 1 through
23 as previously reported.

---------------------------------------------------

March 29, 1977  TARTAN  Page 5
Week in Review
President Carter has submitted plans for
a direct election of Presidents and greatly 
simplified voter registration. Abolition of 
the Electoral College, which would assure 
the candidate with the most popular votes 
the presidency, will require a consitutional 
admendment. The proposed universal re
gistration would make it possible for 
anyone to go to their polling place and, 
after proffering the proper ID card, vote. 
This could potentially significantly alter 
present political power structures and is 
expected to be fiercely contested by the 
Republican minority. Other of the Presi
dents proposals include allowing federal 
employees to participate in campaigns 
and subsidizing federal Congressional 
candidates.
The United States and Vietnam will 
open negotiations in Paris without pre
conditions. This is a significant change of 
policy, indicating that Vietnam is no 
longer making U.S. construction aid the 
price of an accounting for American 
MIAs. Hanoi has constructed a permanent 
agency to aid in the effort of determining 
the fates of the missing servicemen. Viett namese returned 12 bodies with the Ameri
can delegation in good faith, but they 
left the delegation with the distinct impres
sion that the rest of the MIAs are all dead.
French Communists and Socialists have 
made significant gains in recent municipal 
elections. The left now has control of 75% 
of French cities of population over 30,000, 
a substantial base for next years national 
i elections.
Leonid Brezhnev outlined a proposal 
for Mideast demilitarization. The plan calls 
for Israel to gradually withdraw from occu
pied Arab land and for U.N. trdops or ob
servers to maintain a demilitarized zone on 
both sides of the pre-1967 borders. Other 
features of the Soviet plan include a Pales
tinian state and guaranteed Israeli shipping 
i rights in the Suez Canal.
President Carter said that he expects the 
upcoming arms talks with the Soviet Union 
to go according to schedule. Secretary of 
State Vance and SALT negotiator Paul 
Wamke have been instructed to press 
Russia for reductions in arms rather than 
limited growth. The President charged that 
pacts such as the 1974 Vladivostok agree
ment, which set extremely high limitations, 
were, in effect, just ground rules for 
intensified competition. Despite severe 
criticism, Carter is continuing to publicize 
U.S. policies; keeping the public informed 
is, he believes, the only way to insure that 
they will support him. Leonid Brezhnev 
also blasted Carter for his recent promo
tion of human rights, calling them 
outright interference in internal Russian 
affairs. The Soviet leader emphasized that 
Moscow seeks neighborly relations with 
Washington, but progress in that direction 
was deemed unthinkable while the U.S.
claims to teach others how to live.
Over 500 people were killed in what is
being called the worst crash ever in aviation 
history, Sunday morning in the Canary 
Islands, when two Boeing 747 jets collided 
while taxiing on the runway and burst into 
flames. All 249 people abord the Dutch 
KLM jet were killed. Over 84 people es
caped with their lives from the Pan Am 
jet which carried 381 people, however, 
some of them are critically injured.
The Dutch government was forced to 
resign two months early when a coalition 
of Socialists and conservatives collapsed. 
The split was a result of a disagreement 
over how to pay land-owners whose pro
perty has been expropriated. A new elec
tion has been slated for May 24.
The department of Housing and Urban 
Development is expected to announce
10,000 $400 grants for homeowners to in
stall solar water heaters. Water heating is 
considered the most practical solar energy 
application.
*???????????????????????NOTICE
??????????????
Students with complaints, 
questions, compliments, and 
suggestions, are welcome to 
brins them to the April 14th 
meeting of Student Senate at 
530pm in the Wherrett Room.
President Cyert will be there to 
hear what YOU have to say.
All are encouraged to attend.
Indira Gandhi, her son, and the Con
gress Party were defeated in the recent 
round of voting in India. She is the first 
Prime Minister in office ever to have lost a 
seat in elections; for the Congress Party 
which has always been in power since 
Independence thirty years ago, it is indeed 
a sore defeat. Emerging triumphant from 
the elections are the Janata (Peoples) 
Party and the Congress for Democracy, led 
by the 81 year old Moraji Desai and 
Jagjivan Ram, (68), formerly Agricultural 
Minister under Gandhi, respectively. Full 
freedom of peoples rights has been re
stored following the lifting of the state of 
emergency on March 20.
Zaire has dropped four tons of bombs 
on two cities held by Katangan guerrillas. 
Cuba and Angola have both denied charges 
that they are providing leaders for the An
golan based guerrillas. Nigeria, at the re
quest of the U.S., has asked Angola to stop 
the invasion.
After a tense weeks bargaining, British 
Prime Minister James Callaghan survived 
a no-confidence vote. His Labor Party 
government withstood the Conservative 
threat through an alliance with Britians 
Liberal Party which should last until the 
current Parliament session expires in late 
summer. The agreement provides for a 
joint consultative committee that will be 
given some influence over government 
policy. The pact is being assailed by both 
Tory and leftist Labor Party members, 
and has yet to endure a severe test, 
however.
Up to 500,000 gallons of oil may leak
into the Atlantic Ocean due to the break
up of a Panamanian oil tanker. The vessel 
split in two, apparently from an explosion, 
dumping a crew of 39 into the sea about 
130 miles off the coast of North Carolina; 
passing ships were able to rescue 27 of the 
Italian and Uruguayan seamen.
According to Congolese officials, ex
president Alphonse Mussamba-Debat has 
admitted to organizing last weeks murder 
of Congo President Ngouabi. MussambaDebat was ousted by Ngouabi nine years 
ago. Meanwhile, the military committee 
that has taken power since the assasination 
has promised to punish the murderers of 
the Roman Catholic Archbishop of Brazza
ville, Emile Cardinal Biayenda, who was re
putedly on good terms with former president Ngouabi._____________________________
The stock market plunged last week as 
the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell over 
32 points in large drops. The market was 
shaken by President Carters statement that 
his anti-inflation strategy will be very 
strong but will stress voluntary measures 
rather than wage and price controls.Invest
ors also are pessimistic about Carters ener
gy policy. Based on hints given so far, it 
might alter the American lifestyle. This put 
pressure on oil stocks sa many of them hit 
1977 lows during the week. Glamour 
stocks were also hard hit; led by Bur
roughs, IBM, and Kodak, all had disa
ppointing news for stockholders. As for the 
outlook for the market, it appears most 
investors are waiting on the sideline to 
see how Carters energy policy will shape 
up and if inflation will subside now that 
the weather has changed. The price of gold 
broke $152 an ounce and the dollar was 
at its lowest level against the yen in almost 
34 months.
by Wendolf Dolson 
and Debbie Rosenkrantz 
Financial Columnist: Mike Davis 
Assistant: Gulu Advani 
Walt Street Journal courtesy of Tony Rezek 
UPI wire service courtesy of WRCT 
Last weeks byline square should have ap
peared as this one. We appologize to Mssrs. 
Davis and Rezek.
Funded by Activities Fee
THE GREYING 
OF AMERICA
America's Technological Declme 
with
DR. JEAN GIMPEL 
French Author & Academician
THURSDAY, MARCH 31
7:30 PM
WHERRETT ROOM 
SKIBO
CARNEGIE-MELLON
UNIVERSTTY
TECHNOLOGY AND 
HUMAN VALUES PROGRAM

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6 - TARTAN - March 29, 1977
Project Ends in Discord
PSOe 1 ... i, 1____1____1 _ i Tt _ * i ___1___i________   inn av nrtll nM J A AU amcontinued from page 
the Committee, stated,  Steve suggested 
the Lazovik (Pitt) evaluation before the 
Faculty Senate; it has been incorporated 
for this fall. He did not explain why 
Michaels full proposal was not being 
considered.
"I can't see 
he iswhy
upset
//
-President Cyert
A probable explanation is the exten
sive cost of the proposed Teacher Evalua
tion Center. President Cyert recognized 
the $27,500 tag on the Center as the 
possible reason that the Senate and the 
Education Center did not pursue the 
proposal after its presentation. I asked 
the Education Center to look at it and 
never got any recommendation for action. 
He (Michaels) has done a nice job, but the 
funds are not forthcoming. explained 
Cyert.
The Committee has chosen to support a 
proposal offered by Edward Fenton, 
Director of the Carnegie-Mellon Education 
Center. This proposal includes not only 
the Lazovik evaluation, but the modifica
tion and improvement of the present A 
Phi O evaluation. Having already deter
mined a tentative questionaire for CIT/MIS 
and H&SS, the Committee is now designing 
a separate questionaire for CFA.
Michaels is not satisfied with the direc
tion of the Faculty Senate/A Phi O Com
mittee. In his opinion, the adoption of 
the Lazovik Evaluation is not enough. 
Grace French-Lazovik, the originator of 
the evaluation and Director of the Center 
of Evaluation of Teaching at Pitt, supports 
Michaels protest. The complaint is voiced 
on three accounts: 1) teaching is not
supported( by any institutional reward 
system; 2) the evaluation will still be 
administered by students rather than 
by any administrative office; and 3) the 
emphasis of the evaluation is for feedback 
information, and it would be inappropriate 
if these results were used for a comparative 
evaluation.
Without the proposed safeguards, the 
evaluations cant compare teachers or 
reward teaching excellence. And without 
institutional rewards, teachers are not 
going to improve; so the evaluations will 
still be ineffective, claims Michaels.
Michaels and Lazoviks opinion that 
an outside representative must administer 
the evaluations is at the center of the 
complaint directed at A Phi O. Since A 
Phi O is a student organization, it is inher
ent in their operation that members will 
always be changing. This does not allow 
the consistency needed in the evaluations. 
Students make less than adequate adminis
trators in a program whose scope is as 
comprehensive and professional as the 
one outlined in this proposal, Michaels 
said. He continued to explain that tests 
have proven that administration by a 
proctor will supply more objective evalua
tion results.
Michaels is also disturbed by the fact 
that the proposal has received such
limited attention on all campus fronts. 
He expounded, The Senate, Cyert, and 
the TARTAN have been avoiding the issue. 
I contacted the editor of the paper on 
three ocassions with no feedback. He 
revealed that after having sent the proposal 
to Cyert during the summer of 1975, he 
returned to campus in August and found 
that no one had a copy of it. He resubmit
ted the proposal to Cyert, sent 15 copies to 
other administrators, and, he claims, 
forced the report on Faculty Senate. 
But no one is taking an interest, he 
concluded.
Both Hayes and Cyert appear to be in 
discord with Michaels belief that he has 
not received proper attention. Hayes 
stated that the Committee has met with 
Michaels and accepted the help he had to 
offer; but Michaels wishes to attend a 
meeting of the Committee. Cyert said, 
He (Michaels) has made a real contribu
tion; I cant see why he is upset.
Still Michaels is not satisfied; he insists 
that the Committee missed the major 
points of his proposal. Michaels believe? 
that there is more to it than just a lack 
of funds. He argues that perhaps CMU is 
more interested in research work than 
undergraduate education. In fact in a 
letter to Cyert concerning his misplaced 
proposal, he wrote, It is my opinion, 
after a year of research and a lot of contact 
with students, faculty and administrators, 
that the present direction in which teacher 
evaluation is progressing is not in line with 
both your statements on the importance of 
teaching and the emphasis of the Com
mittee.
It is not likely that the Committee will 
re-route the evaluation back to the 
Michaels proposal, though the psychology 
major has not given up. He explained his 
dissatisfaction in a recent memo to the 
Committee, and he will be meeting with 
the Committee next week.
For the time being, Michaels asks, 
is this university dedicated to under
graduate education? That question should 
go up in lights. I tend to think it is 
conducted more as a research institute. If 
that is what we want, lets go back to call
ing ourselves CIT and forget the evalua
tions. But if we are concerned with teach
ing, lets do something about it.
An Open 
Letter From 
Stephen Michaels
As an undergraduate at this University
I have conducted research involved with 
teacher evaluation; evaluated close to 100 
H&SS faculty; and have been involved in 
general political activities with the ultimate 
goal of setting up a meaningful, accurate, 
and consistent high quality teacher evalua
tion program for this campus. In light of 
my experience, I find President Cyerts 
statement concerning the importance of 
how we teach weakly reflected in Uni
versity policies. I have heard a lot of words 
but there is a lack of concrete evidence or 
action.
The most obvious reflection of a Univer
sitys goals can be seen in the selection of 
our excellent faculty. But the question is, 
in what are they excellent? Clearly, it is 
research. To the best of my knowledge, 
the selection process for new faculty does 
not concentrate on teaching ability. This 
is even more blatant in the tenure/promo
tion decisions. The decision making process 
has been described as being lexicographic 
in nature; that is, research is evaluated first. 
If there is not enough information to make 
a decision (a generally rare occurance), 
then other professional activities may be
looked at. The critical point here is, what 
institutional reward structures are there for 
teaching excellence? For what reason 
should a professor be concerned with his 
teaching?
My experience as a student at this Uni
versity has been that there are a few very 
excellent teachers who are excited by their 
teaching and generally seek to improve 
themselves. The rest of my teachers were 
mediocre or poor and there was something 
missing in their teaching. These professors, 
by and large, didnt seem to be terribly in
terested in their teaching or in improving 
their teaching.
And why should they be? This is a re
search institute. A teacher will not improve 
without: useful feedback, the existence of 
an institutional reward structure for teachmg excellence, and mechanism for the im
provement of teaching. Research has in
dicated that teacher evaluations alone are 
not enough. Some type of development/ 
advisory facility has to be made available 
to the faculty member who wants to im
prove.
The emphasis of the Presidents state
ment reflected the importance of course 
content, but what of the quality of the 
actual teaching? Now if we call ourselves 
a research institute, then surely we dont 
have. to be so concerned with teacher 
quality. However, if the administration is 
going to continue to talk about emphasiz
ing the importance of education, then 
where are those institutional reward struc
tures? Lets be up front about it. The 
actions speak louder than the words.
About the Proposal
A large scale research project in the 
field of teacher evaluation, conducted 
by Stephen Michaels, was in progress at 
CMU during the 1974-75 academic years. 
The Teacher Evaluation Research Project, 
subsidized by a $200 fund from President 
Cyert, has resulted in a Proposal for a 
Comprehensive Teacher Evaluation 
Center.
Michaels proposal has been highly 
influenced by the research results of Grace 
French-Lazovik, Director of the Center of 
Evaluation of Teaching at the University 
of Pittsburgh. Both personal consultation 
with Lazovik and her report to the Assoc
iation of American Colleges have played a 
part in Michaels work.
Incorporation of both evaluation for 
formative and summative purposes 
is at the center of Michaels proposal. 
These two purposes were defined by 
Lazovik in her A AC proposal as follows: 
formative evaluation is necessary to 
individual instructors on a continuous
basis [for individual improvement in their 
teaching], summative evaluation be
comes relevant only periodically ... as a 
significant deliberations about tenure 
and promotion.
Michaels did extensive groundwork of 
his own in addition to adopting some 
of the Lazovik evaluation. Three extensive 
surveys determined the formation of eval
uation procedures and content in his pro
posal.
The goals of the Teacher Evaluation 
Center determined by Michaels are decid
edly orientated towards measuring teacher 
effectiveness. The information compiled 
by the Center through student evaluations 
could be used by promotion tenure 
committees for decision making purposes; 
by individual teachers for improving their 
teaching and their courses; by administra
tive officials for indication of need for imp
rovement within departments; and by 
students for course selection purposes.
Stave Michaels' complaint t* that the Committee mined the major points of his proposal.

---------------------------------------------------

i >
NEW DORM
continued from page 1
because most of the design and planning 
will be done this summer. Therefore I 
urge any students with suggestions by 
make them now.
A design agreed upon by the architect 
and the committee will then be presented 
to the campus community and student 
government organizations for comments. 
The new dormitory will not be ready 
before September 1978.
Some of the sites being considered for 
the dormitory are: 1) the present loca
tion of A,B,C co-ops and the houses 
behind them, 2) the lawn between Mudge 
House and Morewood Gardens 3) Doherty 
House lawn, and 4) Morewood Gardens 
parking lot."Full-time" Defined
by Jeffrey Freed
According to the current definition, a 
full-time student is any graduate or 
/ undergraduate who has completed the
enrollment process-having thus met all 
financial obligations to the University
including the activities fee--and who is 
registered for 36 or more units. The 
Election Appeals Board would like to see 
a reexamination of this definition, which 
sparked the recent controversy over Rick 
Edahls candidacy for the office of
| President.
Edahls candidacy was doubted because, 
although working on a thesis full-time, he 
was taking only 5 units of coursework. 
Otto Davis, the Dean of SUPA*, said that he 
considered Edahl a full-time student,
 and that most graduate students take only
5 units of coursework while working on 
their theses. The Election Appeals Board
is interested in determining whether it is 
necessary for graduate students to carry 
so few units. Dean Davis suggested that the 
number of units carried by graduate stu
dents might be increased nominally, 
without changing the amount of course
work. But this adjustment might change 
the way in which tuition is assessed for 
SUPA students, which Davis would like 
to avoid.
The definition of full-time student 
will be discussed over the next few weeks, 
and a committee will probably be formed 
to investigate possible courses of action. 
Since the current definition of full-time 
student is only a means of assessing 
tuition, a special definition may be 
proposed to cover Student Senate 
elections.
Money Back Why Your
Book Hasn't 
Arrived Yet
News Staff 
Meeting 
Tonight
7:30PM 
Skibo 50
All
interested are invited
by Douglas Weber
The AB Concert Committee considers 
the March 18 concert in Skibo Ballroom a 
success, in spite of John Creachs cancel
lation and the late arrival of the MarkAlmond Band. Activities Boards function 
is to provide diversion for the campus. If 
AB profits are such that they can continue 
their service, they consider their operation 
successful. Though many ticket holders 
asked for refunds, Dave Shatz, head of 
ABs Concert Committee, said that 
Carnegie-Mellon will still be able to afford 
Pure Prairie League for its Spring Carnival 
concert.
As of last Thursday, 300 tickets were 
refunded and a few more were expected. 
Of these, 200 were attributed to the 
Mark-Almond Bands tardiness and 100 
to John Creachs cancellation.
Giving to Higher 
Ed Hits New High
Americas corporate community in
creased its giving to higher education from 
$445 million in 1974 to $450 million in 
1975, a new all-time high. The 1% increase 
was the fifth consecutive annual rise in cor
porate giving to higher education since the 
recession of 1969-70 and was achieved in 
the face of a drop in corporate profits in 
1975 of more than 10%. This is accord
ing to a survey report, CORPORATE SUP
PORT OF HIGHER EDUCATION 1975, 
published in early March by the Council 
for Financial Aid to Education (CFAE).
The rise in giving despite the drop in 
profits was made possible by the fact that 
many corporations give both directly as 
continued on page 8
The U.S. Postal Service has issued a 
mail-stop order against the Tam Co. of 
Pelham, N.Y., for falsely advertising their 
products, Ginroy and Ginseng II, as pos
sessing miraculous powers.
The company ads claimed that Ginseng
II, a common herb sometimes referred to 
as the life root, was beneficial to the 
overworked by increasing their powers 
of concentration and would rejuvenate 
the body by restoring as well as inc
reasing vitality in persons of all ages. 
A 10-day sampler of approximately 10 
capsules cost $4.95 plus 55 cents postage.
Mail-stop orders are issued under the 
Postal False Representation Statute and 
require the return to senders of all subse
quent mail related to the mail-order 
scheme. Payment of outstanding postal 
money orders to operators of the scheme 
is also forbidden.
Upon completion of its investigation, 
the Postal Inspection Service provided 
the Consumer Protection Office of the 
Postal Law Department with its findings. 
Consumer Protection lawyers then filed a 
formal complaint charging that Ginseng
II was falsely represented.
Administrative Law Judge William A. 
Duvall ruled that the complaint was vaUd, 
and recommended that a mail-stop order 
be issued.
Fifteen other mail-stop orders relating 
to vanity and medical-type schemes have 
been issued, including one against the 
Erotic Book Gub of Los Angeles, Cali
fornia.
SHADYSIDE CHURCH COLLEGE FELLOWSHIP
OUT
GYM SHADYSIDf PtfStYTMIAN CMUtCH
CAANlUt HELLOS t'SIVEMSITY
Meetings preceded by volleyball 
and refreshments in Shadyside Gym.
Carnegie-Mellon students invited.
For further information call 
Wayne Nickerson '  682-4300
Tuesday March 29 
Christianity and the Arts
Christ and the Classics"
Beth Mairs-Horn
Pittsburgh New Music Ensemble
David Mairs-Horn 
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra 
Jim Krummenacher - Bass 
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra 
Lyn Ramsey - Viola 
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
Tuesday April 12
Christianity and the Church
Holy Ghost!!! Person and 
Work of the Holy Spirit''
Tom Glossi Coalition for Christian 
Outreach - University of 
Pittsburgh-Johnstown
Tuesday April 19 
Christianity and Society
"Sex and the Existence of God" 
Terry Thomas Grove City College
Tuesday April 26 
Christianity and the Media
The Parable'' Film based on Soren 
Kierkegaard's work
Director-Producer James Hodge
9:00 PM
9:00 PM
9:00 PM
9:00 PM

---------------------------------------------------

Lubon Wins Election SPIRIT
continued from page 1 
years president) that its very important to 
get an early start. Last years presidential 
election was also contested, and the delay 
in taking office meant that Yacoe missed 
some important meetings.
I see some problems that can be taken 
care of . . . possibly right away. Lubon is 
concerned about the commuter lounges in 
Skibo, one of which is being used as a 
lounge for the janitors. He believes this 
issue will be good to kick things off. 
He is also concerned about the housing 
situation, and is in favor of having the new 
dormitory built. Rising enrollment is a 
third concern. Lubon wants C-MU to 
remain selective in its choice of students so 
classes will not be overcrowded, and not 
accept anyone because he or she can pay 
the tuition.
The write-in candidate attributed his 
win to a lot of fraternity and sorority 
support. I went around to the dorms last 
[Thursday] night, and we had the stickers 
that was really successful. Lubon had 
had 1000 stickers printed up with his name 
on each, and he estimated that 800 were 
given out. Lubon won with 336 votes 
33% of the 1011 people who voted this 
past Thursday and Friday. Don Simon 
received 250 votes (25%); Rick Edahl 
(the only candidate on the ballot), 187 
votes (18%); Ardella Singleton, 175 votes 
(17%); and other candidates received a 
total of 63 votes (6%).
Lubon is a sophomore, double majoring 
in Mechanical Engineering and Engineering 
and Public Policy. He has been overloading 
every semester and plans to graduate in 
December of 1978. Currently, he is the 
treasurer of his fraternity, Theta Xi, in
volved with Unified Fraternal Organization 
(UFO), and does hotel management work
on weekends. His present 3.3 OPA will 
probably drop to around a 3.0 next year,
he expects, and he will give up his positions 
at Theta Xi and in UFO. Lubon is not overly 
concerned about his lack of Student Senate 
experience. If he needs help in figuring out 
what channels to follow or who to speak 
to, he will ask Doug Konopka, Peter 
Yacoe, Dean Swank, or Dean Williams for 
advice. I am a little bit inexperienced, 
but I think [becoming Student Senate 
President] would be a learning experience 
for anyone. The solutions are out there: 
its a matter of matching the problems with 
the solutions.
Music for Tots
by Gary R. Fabian
Carnegie-Mellon Child Care Center is 
accepting applications for its summer 
program now, according to Ms. Marsha 
Poster, the Centers director. The program 
will run from June 6 to August 25 for 
children three to seven years of age. Ms. 
Poster said that interested persons should 
enroll their children now.
Many outdoor activities are being 
planned for this summer, including 
swimming outings and field trips. A new 
addition to the program will be a weekly 
class in Eurhythmies, which will involve 
the children in music, movement, rhythm 
and dance.
There is a possibility that the center will 
be hiring three students for the summer. 
Ms. Poster pointed out that the students 
must be qualified to work with children 
and eligible for financial aid and work 
study assistance. Applications are to be 
made directly to Ms. Poster between 
April eighteenth and twenty-ninth.
On Wednesday March 30 at 8:00 in 
the evening, a counselor from the Center 
will appear on KDKA (Channel 2), to 
speak about nutrition.
This Paper Needs Help *
and is offering some, too.
We want people who want to work. The weekly pro
duction of the TARTAN is not a job for one person, 
so we're looking for more. A production staff of de
signers, artists, or anyone with an aesthetic eye promises 
a better looking paper.
What we offer in return is experience and knowledge 
more practical than any written text. We'll teach you 
how to make the TARTAN.
call now :
TTCIAN, Skibo 50 
682-4557 or Vivian Kerstein, 
Production Head 
521-2217
continued from page 1
Barney believes that the group as a unit 
lacks morale, and he favors more activities 
in which all members can become involved. 
He particularly mentioned that Spirits 
Spring Carnival booth has been tradition
ally put together by freshmen, and he feels 
that the whole group should work together 
on such projects. Barney also recognizes 
the need for greater interest in Spirit, but 
does not think Spirit membership should 
be extended to non-black minorities. He 
did not elaborate.
The four candidates running for Co
coordinator are Lynda Cokley, Monica 
Hough, Dean Marsh, and Kwasi Mensah. 
Dale Austin is the only declared candidate 
for Secretary; write-in candidates are 
expected. Michael Herron and Joan Ander
son are the candidates for Treasurer.
This past year, Spirit sponsored a bar
becue, skating and bowling parties, dances, 
and a movie on South Africa. Cox stressed 
that Spirit doesnt consider itself a social 
organization, but social activits are the 
easiest to plan. Projects that promote cul
tural awareness are the real aims of Spirit. 
Black Week has been Spirits most impor
tant event for the past few years. This 
week of activities focuses on presenting 
aspects of the black culture to the general 
campus community. Both candidates for 
Coordinator would like to see more Black 
Week-type events planned, and that they 
be spread out during the academic year. 
There is no denying that Spirit is complete
ly black at present, but Cox said that all 
minority students are welcome to join, and 
all of Spirits activities are open to the 
entire campus.
Commenting on this past year for Spirit, 
Leslie felt that it could have been better in 
many respects. His greatest concern was 
the apathetic mood of the organization.
Only one half of the current membership 
is active, and last years election found 
people running without opposition. Cox 
said he hopes there will be a good voter \ 
turnout today, and expressed confidence 
that Spirit will become more unified and 
better understood by the campus commu
nity.
Giving to Higher 
Ed Hits New High <
continued from page 7
corporations, and indirectly, through cor
porate sponsored foundations. Direct cor
porate giving normally drops when corpo
rate . profits fall. However, corporatesponsored foundations are able to maintain, 
or even increase their giving by drawing on 
their reserves.
Among the marketing areas from which 
five or more corporations reported their 
contributions, Pittsburgh, Des Moines and 
Cleveland ranked first, second and third in 
percentage of pretax net income given to 
higher education. They were fifth, sixth 
and seventh in 1974. Detroit, Boston and 
Minneapolis-St. Paul which were one, two, 
and three in 1974, dropped to sixth, fourth 
and fifth in 1975.
Largest increases in giving among indus
tries were reported by the petroleum and 
gas companies, mining companies, and 
those in paper and allied products. These 
three industries reported increases of 10% 
or more in dollar aid to education, des
pite decreases in profits. Banking companies 
and those in the machinery industry also 
reported increases in aid to education of i 
more than 10% but these industries had 
increases in profits. The number one indus
try, as for several years past, was textiles, 
which gave 0.64% of pretax net income to 
higher education, nearly three and onehalf times the average of all companies 
reporting.
SPIRIT ELECTIONS
Candidates for: 
Coordinator 
Co-coordinator 
Secretary 
Treasurer
? ft ?
Tonight, 5:00-7:30
Tuesday March 29.1977 
Skibo Ballroom
VOTE!

---------------------------------------------------

March 29, 1977 - TARTAN - Page 9
* Student Employment Rules
by Margaret Whittington
New Listing Available
continued from page 1
At the beginning of the 1975-76 acade
mic year, President Cyert gave his approval 
to have all student employment on campus 
administered by the Financial Aid Office. 
Since then, the Financial Aid Staff has gra
dually established a workable system that 
will benefit both students and their em
ployers.
On January 3,1977, the position of Stu
dent Employment Coordinator was created 
within the clerical structure of the Finan
cial Aid Office. The new Student Employ
ment Office will be responsible for the 
administration of the College Work-Study 
Program and will insure that non workstudy employment on campus conforms to 
federal guidelines. Federal funding for the 
College Work-Study Program has increased 
from $208,172 in 1975-76 to $281,007 
in 1976-77; we expect to receive at least 
$455,703 for the 1977-78 academic year. 
This dramatic increase in funding will make 
it possible to offer more students summer 
employment, both on campus and through
out the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, 
in cooperation with the Pennsylvania 
Higher Education Assistance Agency.
REGULATIONS GOVERNING 
STUDENT EMPLOYMENT
1. The federal minimum wage is now 
$2.30 per hour. Carnegie-Mellon Univer
sity has authorization to employ full-time 
(36 units) students on campus at a wage 
rate of not less than 85% of the minimum 
hourly rate. $1.95 per hour is the current 
subminimum wage permissible. A full-time 
student may not work at the subminimum 
wage rate for more than 8 hours a day, 
nor 20 hours a week when classes are in 
session. Any student enrolled on a less 
than full-time basis (less than 36 units) 
must be paid at least $2.30 oer hour.
2. A Work-Study student must be paid 
at the same rate as any other student doing 
comparable work. Non Work-Study stu
dents may not be paid at a higher or lower 
rate than Work-Sttidy students.
3. Work-Study Authorization Cards will 
be issued only to properly enrolled stu
dents who are eligible to participate in the 
College Work-Study Program.
4. Departments are required to post all 
student job openings with the Student 
Employment Office as a condition to ulti
mate processing of any Personnel Action 
Notice.
5. The hiring department is required to 
indicate the students department and 
class on the Personnel Action Notice 
every student employee.
6. The hiring department is required to 
indicate definite beginning and ending 
dates on the Personnel Action Notice of 
every student employee. UFN is not 
acceptable.
7. The hiring department is required 
to officially evaluate and terminate every 
Work-Study employee at the end of the 
academic year. Forms may be obtained 
from the Student Employment Office, 
212 Warner Hall.
A. In general, Work-Study employees 
who begin work in a specific semester are 
expected to work in that position until the 
end of that semester.
B. A student may terminate his 
Work-Study employment and remain in 
good standing (eligible for another WorkStudy position) by giving notice at least 
two weeks in advance of the end of the 
semester and then working the remainder 
of the semester.
1. Students may be terminated in 
good standing for the following reasons:
a. Fulfillment of work to be 
performed, no need for subsequent work.
b. Inability to perform specific 
duty due to insufficient knowledge or 
skills.
c. Minor personality conflicts 
or other extenuating circumstances.
d. Emergency medical or family 
reasons which can be substantiated.
2. Students may be terminated in 
bad standing for the following reasons:
a. Refusal to work regularly 
scheduled hours.
b. Chronic absenteeism and/or 
tardiness without proper notice.
c. Insubordination.
3. Students who are terminated in 
bad standing will not be eligible for future 
Work-Study positions for a period of 
one semester. ,
Ms. Whittington is Student Employment 
Coordinator for Carnegie-Mellon Univer
sity.
other researchers, either consciously or ac
cidentally. Many people of varying inter
ests have access to the proposals submitted 
for evaluation. Until the formation of Un
project Register Service, there was no for
mal machinery to safe-guard proprietary 
ideas, no check on the subsequent re
appearance of the original ideas in a pro
posal submitted later or even the incor
poration of the idea as a refinement to 
a current contract. Now there will be a 
protection against leaking leads, says 
Holway. The Unproject Register Service 
will maintain a record and research mech
anism by which ideas can be traced to the 
original authors.
Selected lists of the unfunded pro
posals are available to prospective or po
tential buyers, since the primary in West 
of ?h' authors of unfunded projects is 
to get them funded by somebody.
The Unproject Register Service has so 
far been surprised by public reaction to 
their new listing. The Service reports an 
unexpected high demand for project ideas:
more than half the correspondence on a 
typical day are seekers of ideas rather than 
offerers. There appears to be an insatiable 
need for innovative concepts by corpora
tions and government agencies, Holway 
says that this indicates a wide misconcep
tion that there is an over supply of worthy 
new ideas.. .Firms are actively seeking 
ideas from outside their organizations.
So far the Service has had requests for 
listings in the following areas: Transporta
tion, Acoustics, Systems and energy, Pa
tient care products, Radiation effects, 
Space science, Electronics, Aerospace, Op
tical, and Dreging and offshore needs.
The Unproject Register Service is 
utilizing a format somewhat similar to that 
used by the registry of projects in the 
Smithsonian Science Information Ex
change, the Engineering Index, the Nation
al Technical Information Service and 
others. Further information and format 
sheets are available by writing the Unprcject Register Service, 305 South 
Pennsylvania Avenue, Greensburgh, 
Pennsylvania 15601 or by calling 
412-836-4828.
INTERESTED IN MARKETING?
The Office of
Career Services and Placement 
will present a
career seminar on marketing.
Mr. Richard Patton,
President of Heinz, U.S.A.,
Division of the H.J. Heinz Co.,
will speak on the
evolution of modern marketing
leading to the
Product Manager System.
He will deal with
products marketed different ways 
in addition to 
marketing new products. 
Commercials will be shown 
and time will be available 
for discussion and questions.
CONSUMER
PRODUCT
MARKETING
MEETING CONSUMER NEEDS 
WITHOUT TRIPPING OVER 
THE BOTTOM LINE
Tuesday 
March 29, 1977 
11:30 A.M. 
Wherrett Room 
Skibo

---------------------------------------------------

FINAL EXAMINATIC
Wednesday, May 4 to Tuesday, May 10
BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES21-123Calculus IIIMon May 98:30-11:30PH 100
21-127Intro, to Applied MathematicsFri May 61:304:30SH 125
03-231Biochemistry 1Fri May 68:30-11:30DH 111221-141Computational Linear AlgebraTue May 101:304:30SCH 7500
03-350Developmental BiologyFri May 68:30-11:30Ml 35521-224Applied AnalysisMon May 91:304:30SH 125
03411Molecular Biology of Microorgan.Sat May 78:30-11:30Ml 35521-235Mathematical Studies 1Thu May 58:30-11:30SCH 5328
21-237Mathematical Studies IIIThu May 58:30-11:30SCH 5304
21-256Advanced Calculus IIWed May 48:30-11:30SCH 5328
CHEMICALENGINEERING21-258Higher Math. Soc.
Manag. Sc. 11Thu May 58:30-11:30SH 125
06-101Intro, to Chemical EngineeringSat May 71:304:30DH 231521-259Ordinary Diff. Equa.
06-152Chemical Engineering 1Fri May 61:304:30DH 2315& Lin. Alg.Thu May 51:304:30DH 2210, 2315
06-202Chemical Engineering IIIThu May 58:30-11:30DH 111221-260Partial Diff. Equa.
06-204Process ThermodynamicsTBA& Vec. Anal.Fri May 61:304:30DH 2210
06-310Transport PhenomenaThu May 51:304:30DH 111221-301Combinatorial AnalysisThu May 58:30-11:30SCH 5316
21-303Finite MathematicsSat May 78:30-11:30PH 100
CHEMISTRY21-369Anal. Computer AlgorithmsThu May 51:304:30SCH 5328
21-371Functions of Complex VariablesWed May 41:304:30SCH 5316
09-104Chemicals in our LivesSat May 71:304:30DH 220021476Ordinary Differential EquationsMon May 98:30-11:30DH 2315
09-105Dynamics & EquilibriaTBA21484Applied Graph TheoryWed May 48:30-11:30SCH 5336
09-106Bonding & Structural PrinciplesFri May 61:304:30SCH 750021487Applied Control TheoryThu May 58:30-11:30SCH 5336
09-117Organic Chemistry 1TBA21492Operations ResearchFri May 61:304:30SCH 5403
09-142 Physical Chemistry I 
09-218 Organic Chemistry IF 
09-248 Inorganic Chemistry 
09-536 Physical Chemistry III
Mon May 9 
Tue May 10 
Thu May 5 
Wed May 4
CIVIL ENGINEERING
1:30-4:30 
8:30-11:30 
8:30-11:30 
8:30-11:30
DH 1112 
DH 2210 
DH 1209,1211 
SCH 5403, 5310
12-101
12-103
12*211
12-215
12-325
13-332 
12-604 
12-621
2-623
12-636
12-637
15-101
15-104
15-111
15-152
15-311
15-380
15410
Intro, to Engineering Planning Mon May 9
Systems Engineering I TBA
Solid Mechanics I Fri May 6
Materials Mon May 9
Soil Mechanics Thu May 5
Hydraulic Engineering TBA
Systems Engineering II Sat May 7
Structural Mechanics II Wed May 4
Structural Design Fri May 6
Environmental Impact Analysis Mon May 9
Urban Engineering Issues & Prob. Wed May 4
COMPUTER SCIENCE
1:30-4:30 PH 123H
1:30-4:30 PH 100. 
1:304:30 DH2315
8:30-11:30 PH 123H
8:30-11:30 
8:30-11:30 
8:30-11:30 
8:30-11:30 
1:304:30
Computer Appreciation 
Intro, to Computation A 
Intro, to Computation B 
Computational Linear Algebra 
Software Engineering Method 
Intro, to Artificial Intelligence 
Programming Systems
Tue May 10 8:30-11:30 
Sat May 7 8:30-11:30
TBA
Mon May 9 8:30-11:30 
Mon May 9 8:30-11:30 
Tue May 10 8:30-11:30 
Tue May 10 1:304:30
PH 123B 
PH 123H 
PH 123B 
PH 123B 
PH 123B
DH 1112 
DH 1212, 2210
SCH 5419 
SCH 7500 
SCH 5427 
SCH 5427
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
18-100Fundamentals of Electrical Eng.Thu May 5
18-102Nonlinear & Active CircuitsThu May 5
18-114Electrical Engineering IIAWed May 4
18-201Field AnalysisThu May 5
18-224Efectronic Circuits 1 Sec. ASat May 7
BSat May 7
CSat May 7
18-234Computer StructuresFri May 6
18-310Fund, of Communications
SystemsWed May 4
18-341Electromechanics: Fields,
Forces & MotionTue May 10
ENGINEERING AND PUBLIC
19-319Law and the EngineerMon May 9
19451Engr. & Public Policy Project AThu May 5
BTue May 3
MATHEMATICS
21-104Fund, of Mathematics IIThu May 5
21-121Calculus 1Mon May 9
1-122Calculus IIThu May 5
1:304:30
8:30-11:30
8:30-11:30
1:304:30
8:30-11:30
8:30-11:30
8:30-11:30
8:30-11:30
PH 100
DH 1212, HH 11, 
HH 10
SCH 5419, 5427 
HH 11 
SH 324 
BH 231 
PH 126C 
SCH 5419
8:30-11:30
3:30-5:30
3:30-5:30
8:30-11:30
8:30-11:30
8:30-11:30
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
24-121Thermodynamics 1Sec. TWed May 46:00-9:00 pmSH 212
. ' V '*? - >vUWed May 46:00-9:00 pmSH 206
VWed May 46:00-9:00 pmSH 220
24-131Intro. To Materials EngineeringSat May 71:304:30PH 100
24-141Statics & DynamicsSec. AWed May 48:30-11:30SH 206
BWed May 48:30-11:30SH 212
CWed May 48:30-11:30SH 220
24-160Engineering GraphicsSec. TThu May 56:00-9:00 pmSH 422
UThu May 56:00-9:00 pmSH 224
VWed May 46:00-9:00 pmSH 422
wWed May 46:00-9:00 pmSH 224
24-203Stress AnalysisThu May 58:30-11:30SH 212,220,224
24-216Gas DynamicsWed May 41:304:30SH 206
24-223ThermodynamicsSec. AFri May 68:30-11:30SH 206
BFri May 68:30-11:30SH 220
24-246Feedback Control SystemsTue May 101:304:30DH 2210
24-249DynamicsSat May 78:30-11:30SH 212
24-291Engineering EconomyTBA
METALLURGY AND MATERIALS SCIENCE
27-131Materials ScienceMon May 91:304:30SCH 7500,
DH 2210
27-217Transport & KineticsThu May 58:30-11:30BH 231
27-322Process MetallurgyWed May 48:30-11:30SCH 5302
27-332Physical Metallurgy IIWed May 41:304:30SCH 6423
27442Mechanical Behavior of Mat. IIFri May 68:30-11:30SH 125
27-511Diffraction Methods in MMSWed May 48:30-11:30SCH 5304
33-116 Introductory Phisics 
33-120 First Year Physics IB 
33-121 Physics I: Mechanics 
33-122 Physics II: Heat, Wave 
Motion and Optics
PHYSICS
TBA
Wed May 4 1:304:30
Tue May 10 8:30-11:30
Wed May 4 8:30-11:30
SCH 5403 
SCH 7500
PH 100, DH 1112, 
DH 1212,DH 2210 
DH 2315, SH 125
BH 231 
MM 103 
SH 125
SCH 5320 
SCH 5419
SCH 7500. DH 2210, 
PH 100 DH 2315
SCH7500
33-131Physical Mechanics IIThu May 58:30-11:30SCH5415
33-134Modern Physics IWed May 48:30-11:30SCH5320
33-438Intermed. Electricity & Magnet.Thu May 51:30-4:30SCH5320
33442Intro, to Statistical PhysicsThu May 58:30-11:30SCH7316
33444Intro, to Nuclear PhysicsWed May 41:304:30SCH5328
33448Intro, to Solid-State PhysicsWed May 48:30-11:30SCH5316
33454Physics of ContinuaSat May 78:30-11:30SCH7316
STATISTICS
36-211 Probability & Appi. 
Statistics ISat May 7 1:304:30DH 2210, 
SCH 7500

---------------------------------------------------

March 29, 1977 - TARTAN - Page 11
SPRING BREAK
Biological Sciences to Social Relations
u
36-212Prob. & Applied Statistics IIFri May 68:3011:30SCH 7500
36-216Probability & Statistics IIWed May 41:30-4:30SCH 5310
36-219Stat. Meth. of Data Analysis 1Sat May 71:30-4:30SH 125
30220Stat. Meth. of Data Analysis IISat May 78:3011:30SCH 7500
36-222Qual. Control & Indus. Stat. 1Wed May 48:3011:30SCH 8121
CIT/MIS INTERDISCIPLINARYPROGRAM
39-206Anal. Synth. &
Evaluation ll-CHETBA
MUSIC
57-152Harmony 1Thu May 58:3010:30FA 157
57-154Harmony 11Wed May 41:303:30FA 157
57-204History of Music IIThu May 58:3010:30FA 107
57-256Counterpoint 1Wed May 48:30-10:30FAI 57
57-25820th- Century TechniquesWed May 48:3010:30FA 107
57-266Counterpoint IIFri May 68:3010:30FA 160
57-376Music in Secondary EducationThu May 58:3010:30FA 160
ADMINISTRATION AND MANAGEMENT SCIENCE
70-101 Elem. of Industriai 
Admin.
70-121 Quant. Controls 
in Business
See. A 
C
Sec. A 
B 
C
70-142 Math, for Management
Sci. II Sec. A
B
70-333 Econ. Growth & Fluctuations 
70-361 Foundations of Law
70-371 Production I Sec. A
B
70-391 Finance I Sec. A
B
70-471 Production II
70-491 Finance II
Tue May 10 1:304:30 
Tue May 10 1:304:30
Tue May 10 8:30-11:30 
Tue May 10 8:30-11:30 
Tue May 10 8:30-11:30
Fri May 6 
Fri May 6 
Wed May 4 
Mon May 9 
Tue May 10 
Tue May 10 
Mon May 9 
Mon May 9 
Thu May 5 
Wed May 4
1:30-4:30
1:30-4:30
1:30-4:30
1:30-4:30
1:30-4:30
1:30-4:30
8:30-11:30
8:30-11:30
8:30-11:30
8:30-11:30
BH 231 
PH 100
BH 231 
PH 100 
DH 1212
BH 129 A 
BH 129K 
BH 129 A 
PH 100, PH 125D 
BH 129 A 
BH 129K 
BH 129 A 
BH 129K 
BH 129 A 
BH 129 A
ECONOMICS
SFri May 68:30-11:30PH 210
TFri May 68:30-11:30PH 126B
UFri May 68:3011:30PH 211
76-202Quest for IdentityWed May 41:30-4:30BH 245
76-210Medieval LiteratureTBA
76-278Novelist & American LifeMon May 98:30-11:30PH 226A
76-282Fiction of Pittsburgh RegionTue May 101:30-4:30BH 229B
70294Literary Heroines: Repression
and RevoltSat May 78:3011:30BH 235A
70321Shakespeare Sec. AThu May 51:30-4:30BH 245
BThu May 51:30-4:30BH 232F
7034018th Century Authors:
Swift/PopeTue May 108:30-11:30BH 255B
7036020th Cent. Brit. Authors
JoyceTue May 101:30-4:30BH 255B
7039120th Cent. Europ. Authors:
Ibsen/StrindbergWed May 48:3011:30BH255A
70411Int Poetry & Short FictionTBA
76-417Readings Contemp. Amer.
PoetryThu May 51:30-4:30PH 226B
76-424Europ. Drama,
19th & 20th CenturyMon May 98:3011:30BH 255A
76-502Survey of Genres IIITue May 108:3011:30BH 255A
76-503Survey of Genres IVMon May 91:304:30BH 255B
76-511Fiction WorkshopThu May 58:3011:30BH255A
70513Fiction WorkshopFri May 61:304:30BH 229B
70531Poetry Workshop IIFri May 68:3011:30BH 232F
70533Poetry Workshop IVFri May 68:3011:30BH 232F
76-550Exposition 1Fri May 61:304:30PH226C
76-560Exposition 11Fri May 68:3011:30PH 215
70575Adv. Composition: JournalismThu May 58:3011:30BH 229B
76-581Business & Prof.
Communication 1 Sec. AThu May 51:304:30BH 129A
BThu May 51:30-4:30BH 129K
CThu May 51:304:30BH 229B
70606Linguistics 8c ReadingThu May 58:3011:30BH 235A
76-673Film ArtWed May 48:3011:30BH 232F
73-100Econ. Anal. & Prob. 1Wed May 41:304:30DH 2210,DH 2315
73-175SCH 750082-102
Radical Social, Pol. &82-107Econ. TheoryTBA82-12273-200Econ. Growth 8t FluctuationsWed May 41:304:30PH 10082-13173-250Resource AllocationTBA82-14273-360Manpower Econ. & Pol. IssuesTBA82-15673456Money, Interest & InflationThu May 51:304:30SCH 750082-16173459Benefit-Cost AnalysisTBA82-162
82-163
82-202
ENGLISH82-273
82-302
76-100Freshman Writing Sec.AFrMay 68:30-11:30BH 229B82-360
BFrMay 68:30-11:30BH 235A82-383
CFrMay 68:30-11:30BH 24582484
DFrMay 68:30-11:30BH 255A
EFrMay 68:30-11:30PH 125B
FFrMay 68:30-11:30PH 125D
GFrMay 68:30-11:30BH 255B85-121H
1
Fr
Fr
May 6 
May 6
8:30-11:30
8:30-11:30
BH 129A 
PH 226A
85-218
85-265
JFrMay 68:30-11:30PH 225B85-356
KFrMay 68:30-11:30PH 126C
LFrMay 68:30-11:30PH 225C
MFrMay 68:30-11:30PH 225B
NFrMay 68:30-11:30BH 131
OFrMay 68:30-11:30BH 129K88-103
PFrMay 68:30-11:30PH 125C88-232
QFrMay 68:30-11:30PH 226C88-240
RFrMay 68:30-11:30PH 209
HISTORY AND PHILOSOPHY
79-102 Shaping Western
Civilization II TBA
79-650 Prob. & Meth. of Philosophy B TBA
79-653 Introduction to Logic TBA
79-693 Intermediate Logic Sat May 7 8:30-11:30
MODERN LANGUAGES AND LITERATURES
Elementary French Fri May 6 8:30-10:30
Programmed French rri May 6 1:30-4:30
Elementary German Sat May 7 8:30-10:30
Intermed. German I: Lit. & Cult. Wed May 4 8:30-10:30 
Elementary Spanish Sat May 7 8:30-10:30
Intermed. Spanish III: Conver. Mon May 9 8:30-10:30
Russian Wed May 4 8:30-10:30
Russian Thu May 5 1:30-3:30
Russian Wed May 4 8:30-10:30
Adv. French Grammar Sat May 7 8:30-10:30
Contemporary French Novel Wed May 4 8:30-10:30
German Conversation & Comp. Sat May 7 8:30-10:30
German Literature of 19th Cent. Wed May 4 1:30-3:30
Studies in German Literature Fri May 6 8:30-10:30
Latin American Civilization Wed May 4 8:30-10:30
PSYCHOLOGY AND EDUCATION
Cognitive Process in Education Fri May 6 8:30-10:30
Models of Human Interaction Thu May 5 8:30-10:30
Environmental Psychology Wed May 4 1:30-3:30
Intro, to Clinical Psychology Wed May 4 8:30-11:30
SOCIAL RELATIONS
Conflict & Cooperation 
Issues in Urban Education 
Applications of Operations 
Research
Tue May 10 
Wed May 4
1:30-4:30
8:30-11:30
Fri May 6 1:30-4:30
PH 126B
SCH 5316 
BH 231 
BH 131 
BH 235A 
BH 229B 
BH 235A 
BH229B 
BH 235A 
PH 126B 
BH 129A 
PH 125D 
BH 129K 
BH 229B 
SCH 5328 
PH 125C
BH 340A 
BH 232F 
BH 232F 
PH 208
MM 112 
BH 245
SCH 5403
$

---------------------------------------------------

hhi y* it r fr t
Page 12 - TARTAN - March 29, 1977
FIi]VDS
w 61 '^Uss/ ^wr
edv te
O ..
fuitded by activities fee
ab special event 
8=OOpm f riday, april 15 
morewood cafe free with emu id

---------------------------------------------------

ENTERTAINMENT
WARMING
by Casey Childs
The AB Concert Committee has 
finalized their plans for this years Spring 
Carnival. Pure Prairie League will head
line with Joan Armatrading backing-up the 
bill. AB was fortunate to secure such 
renowned group as Pure Prairie. But Joan 
Armatrading can hardly be thought of as 
just another supporting act. She is consid
erably more than the usual second 
back-ups most concerts offer.
Armatrading is a 26-year-old Britisher 
who was born in the West Indies. In addi
tion to being an accomplished singer/song
writer, she is also highly respected as 
musician. Prior to 1976, she had only 
two albums on the market, Whatevers 
For Us and Back to the Night, both 
which were of little, if any, importance to 
the American music world. The talent 
was unquestionably there, but ability 
any nature cannot be expected to survive 
the Moppy production and rudimentary 
recording procedures her first two records 
suffered from. The vast range of her 
abilities has always been apparent, al
though they never really manifested 
themselves till last year.
In 1976, she established herself as a 
prominent artist to the listening public 
with her album, Joan Armatrading. She 
was acclaimed by music critics all over the 
Country as being one of the most promis
ing and dynamically different new talents 
of the year. She must have greeted this 
mention with some amusement seeing 
that she is obviously too seasoned to be 
labeled new talent. Nonetheless, she was 
established.
The success of her latest album has been
UP WITH
Joan Armatrading and Pure Prairie 
League will be performing in the gym on 
April 22 during the week of SprIng Carni
val. Tickets can be purchased at the 
information desk at Skibo beginning April 
11. A discount rate on all seats will be 
offered to students the first week of 
advanced sales.
Editor's Note:
This is only part one of a two part 
article about the AB Concert. The second 
part will be in the April 19 issue and will 
cover Pure Prairie League.
UNDERGRADUATE ART
WORK SELECTED BY1
-JEFF PERRONEof ARTFORUM
Velar Gallery GSIA April 14-24 
Lecture Wed. April 13 700 Breed Hall (MM)
Information available 306 CFA Skibo desk Design dept.
SHOW
JOAN ARMATRADING
largely attributed to being the result ot 
intensive tearing and working in front of 
live audiences. Because of this and because 
of the perfectionist prowess of her new 
producer, Glyn Johns, she has blossomed 
into a full realization of her gifts.
As an entertainer, she is unclassifiable. 
Her onstage persona is said to be refresh
ingly unaffected and uncompromising. 
The Los Angeles Times tried to isolate 
style by calling it an intriging mixture 
jazz, rock and folk textures. So 
much for simplifying.
Her lyrics have been labeled every
thing from agonizingly sensitive to 
unconsciously metaphoric. But she pro
tests that her lyrics reflect universal 
rather than personal situations. I do not 
write about myself, she says, I dont 
really want anyone to know about me, I 
suppose. Its not really a question of 
having secrets. Thats probably why I 
dont write about myself, in fact. Im 
trying not to let out the secret that I have 
no secrets.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14 - TARTAN - March 29, 1977EVENTSMUSIC
COSI FAN TUTTE, by Wolfgang Amadeus
Mozart, sometimes titled A School for 
Lovers, is the frolicsome pun-filled opera 
to be presented by the Pittsburgh Opera on 
March 31 and April 2 at 8:15 p.m. This 
musical parody on love, abounding with 
social and sexual puns, will be sung in 
English. Call 281-0912 for information.
The superb ensemble Guarneri String
Quartet will be heard at the Jewish Com
munity Center, 315 S. Bellefield Ave., on 
Wednesday, March 30 at 8:00 p.m. A block 
of single tickets has been made available 
for this concert. To order tickets, call 
521-8010. Remaining tickets will be sold 
at the box office on the night on the con
cert.
Michael Grebanier, principal cellist of the
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra, will give a 
cello recital on Monday, March 28 at 
8 p.m. in Alumni Concert Hall on the CMU 
campus. The concert, which is free and 
open to the public, will be Grebanier's final 
solo performance in Pittsburgh before he 
joins the San Francisco Symphony Orches
tra as principal cellist.
Carnegie-Mellon University's Contem
porary Music Ensemble will present a pro
gram of twentieth century music on 
Thursday, March 24 at 8 p.m. in Alumni 
Concert Hall on the CMU campus. The 
program will also include "Cuatris" by 
by Leonardo Balaaa, Theodore Antoniou's 
"Events III, Stravinsky's "Octet for 
Wind Instruments", and Joan Guinjoan's 
"Magma". The concert is free and open 
to the public.
THEATRE
Murry Schisgal's The Tiger, is scheduled
for performances on March 31, and 
April 1, at 8:00 p.m., at the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse's Craft Avenue Theatre in 
Oakland.
Theatre Express, a young company made
up of mostly Carnegie-Mellon graduates, 
will be appearing at the Chatham College 
Theatre from April 17 to May 3. Four 
plays will run in repertory at that time. 
Tickets are $2.50 for students and $8.00 
for a subscription for all of the plays. For 
reservations and information please call 
731-0285. The A. W. Mellon Educational 
and Charitable Trust is underwriting most 
of the expense for this week of good 
theatre.
The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie will be pre
sented by the Duquesne University Red 
Masquers on March 31, April 1-2 at 8:30 
p.m. in the Duquesne Ballroom. Admission 
is $1 with a student I.D. and $1.50 for the 
general public. For details, call 434-6420.
ART
"Flowers of the World: Paintings by Leslie
Greenwood will be on exhibition at the 
Hunt Institute for Botanical Documenta
tion at Carnegie-Mellon University begin
ning on Monday, April 18, 1977. The 
exhibition will continue at that location 
through September 30, 1977; gallery hours 
are Monday through Friday, 9 a.m. to 
5 p.m. There is no admission charge, and a 
free illustrated catalog will be available.
An exhibition of works by Charles Parks, 
one of the nation's leading realist sculptors, 
will be on display in Pittsburgh's Gateway 
Center Westinghouse Building, 11 Stanwix 
Street, April 1 through 23. The exhibit 
features over sixty of Mr. Parks' finest 
original creations, composed of bronze, 
welded corten steel and fibre glass. Exhibit 
hours are 9:00 a.m.-4:00 p.m./Monday 
through Friday.
Forbes Street Gallery, 5200 Forbes Ave
nue, Pittsburgh, Pa.,412-683-9105. Hours: 
Tuesday thru Sunday: 12-4, Tuesday, Wed
nesday, Thursday: 7-9. Janet Petrone,
Grace Burney, and Emily Eisenberg will be 
showing Printmaking, Paintings and 
Drawings.
CINEMACAMPUS
AB Presents: MACBETH. This is an
excellent interpretation of Shakespeare's 
play, embellished with the appropriate 
blood, lust and rhetoric. The film is direct
ed by the controversial Roman Polanski. 
The film will be shown in Doherty Hall, 
March 31 at 7:00 and 9:30.
MISC.
The Pennsylvania Ballet returns to its home
state with two performances at Heinz Hall 
on Friday and Saturday, April 15 and 16. 
The performances are part of the 1976-77
%
DAGMAR KESSLER AND ALAIN 
DUBREUIL IN "GISELLE" AT PBT
discounts to students, senior citizens and 
general ticket information, call 281-5000. 
Group discounts are also available - call 
355-0330.
The Amazing Kreskin will be in concertt
St. Vincent College's Kennedy Hall, Latrobe, on April 18. The. performance is 
scheduled for 8:00 p.m. Tickets, at $5.00, 
are available by sending a check or money 
order and a self-addressed envelope to 
Debi Perez at 1504 Wood Street, Latrobe, 
Pennsylvania 15650. Tickets will be avail
able at the box office on the night of the 
performance.
WRCT
MONDAY THRU FRIDAY MORNINGS
6 to 10 AM--Pittsburgh's FIRST Morning 
Wake-Up Service! If you have a favorite 
song that you would like to wake up to in 
the morning, then write on a piece of paper 
your name, the day and time your clock 
radio will turn on, and the song (author, 
title, and album) and bring it to either 
the Skibo Information Desk, or down to 
our studios in room 48 in Skibo. Then 
we will put it on at the designated time.
TUESDAY MIDNIGHT
Anything That Gets You Off-a call-in 
talk show with Sal Paradise..
WEDNESDAY NIGHT SPECIAL
at 9 PM-features Harry Nilsson with your 
hosts Berenger and Bruce Brachman.
season presented by the Pittsburgh Dance FRIDAY-9 PM TO MIDNIGHT
Council. Tickets for the April 15 and 16 Greg Arthur will give away an ANTONIO'S
performances are available at Heinz Hall, Pizza this week and every week. Phone
Gimbels, Horne's and Kaufmann's. For 621-WRCT. Just call up and win!
ASCENTMAN
MAR 29 
APR 12
World within World
Knowledge or Certainty
Documentary
Film Series I, Jw/ 4'/ / 7 r*Film times:
11=30 & 12=30'
Wherrett Room
Skibo
JED HARRIS: THE MONK IN THEATRE EXPRESS ' "KILLING GAME"

---------------------------------------------------

March 29, 1977 - TARTAN - Page 15
OBLIVION EXPRESS: IAZZ-ROCK FUSION
by David Lucas
One of the best products of the fusion 
of jazz and rock styles was a 1973 album 
by Brian Auger and the OMivion Express. 
Closer to It! The album displayed a heavier 
dependence upon percussion than other 
records of the same genre. It was this re
liance upon clearly visible rhythm which, 
accompanying Augers excellent keyboard 
playing, made Closer to It! an incredible 
album.
Succeeding albums have failed to reach 
that mark of excellence, but the Oblivion 
Express seventh release, Happiness Heart
aches, is nontheless a good album. The 
Oblivion Express was started by English
man Auger in 1970. The group was pro
ceeded by Brian Augers Trinity and a 
supergroup, Steampacket, which fea
tured the vocal trio of Rod Stewart, 
Julie Driscoll and Long John Baldry. 
An earlier musical endeavor teamed Auger 
with John McLaughlin.
Happiness Heartaches' lengthiest cut, 
Spice Island, is nearly nine minutes long. 
Anything more would have been excessive 
for the nature of the tune. It owes much of 
it s success to the lush subtleties of it s 
percussion. Trinidadian Lennox Laington 
contributes conga, bells, cowbells, tam
bourine and rattles while Jack Mills lead
guitar mimics the muffled vocals of Alex 
Ligertwood. Auger has pleasant key
board interludes at the middle and end of 
the song.
Speed and brevity work well in Gimme 
a Funky Break. The sped-up Mardi Gras 
percussion keeps pace for Ligertwoods 
energetic vocals and Augers speedy organ 
solo.
Aint Never Gonna Come Down proves 
that two mediocre voices are better than 
one. Ligertwoods double-track vocals are 
quite engaging. The song is deeply rooted 
in r & b. It features trumpet-like synthe
sizers, dance-music guitar and fades out 
with Augers organ playing over a nice 
chorus of the repeated title.
The albums title tune smacks of Ave
rage White Band. Happiness Heartaches is 
slow and mellow, and features a wailing 
lead guitar. The guitar solo and Ligert
woods overdubbed, ARP-covered choruses 
are particularly tasty. Got to be Bom 
Again is another r & b tune. Drummer 
Lenny White and chunky rhythm guitar by 
Ligertwood give the tune a danceable funk.
The only strictly jazz tune and the only 
instrumental is Paging Mr. McCoy, a power
ful tribute to McCoy Tyner. This is the sole 
instance where Auger overpowers his band. 
The keyboard work is driving and vivacious. 
The song fades out in mellow bass (by 
Clive Chaman, late of the Jeff Beck Band), 
drums and piano.
The first song on the album, Back Street 
Bible Class, is the only one which fails. 
Neither the gruff vocals nor Augers funky 
organ can induce the gospel feeling it 
ought to have.
mouth/ Tell me why should we have to 
lie/ After all, He came and died./ Got to be 
bom again, Got to be bom again.
The title song and Never Gonna Come 
Down are concerned with emotion:
A FLEA MARKET
APRIL 30
Bring Stuff from Home
Sponsored by Student Corp.
All of the tunes were penned by mem
bers of the Oblivion Express. Lyrically, 
the music is mediocre. Ligertwoods voice 
is not clear enough and his vocals are not 
distinctive enough to call attention to the 
words being sung. Often, the vocals 
become as much orchestration as the organ 
or drum tracks and it is hard to separate 
them from the music.
The subjects of two of the songs are 
spiritual: Never be too proud/ Shout 
it aloud/ Never be in doubt/ Open up your
Youve brought me sunshine/ Took me 
out of the rain/ Lovin means something 
that brings me pain/ Its happiness, heart
aches. Other lyrics involve euphoric persuits.
Happiness Heartaches incorporates the 
styles of modem jazz with those of AM 
radio rock and soul, producing music that 
is exciting and pleasant. Brian Auger and 
the Oblivion Express will probably never 
record another Closer to It! but the new 
album proves that the group has much to 
offer in the realm of jazz-rock fusion.
We have a few openings, 
in the vineyard Come labor with us. The hours are long. The pay is low. All we promise is the opportunity to help others and a quiet pride in your work. A few people will even thank you. One will be eternally grateful. His name is God.
If interested in studying for the Catholic Priesthood, 
contact: Father OToole, Pittsburgh Diocese,
111 Blvd. of the Allies, 15222 or call 412-456-3070.

---------------------------------------------------

PURIM: A CRYSTALLINE VOCALIST
by David Doremus
Flora Purims latest d\bum, No thing Will 
be as it was . . . tomorrow, presents her at 
her most exuberant and vivacious. She is 
not supported by her husband Airto and 
her old Brazilian colleagues George and 
Hugo Fattoruso and Toninho Horta, but 
by such respected American names as 
Patrice Rushen, George Duke, A1 McKay 
and Ernie Watts. Musically this is a very 
tight record, superbly produced by percus
sionist Leon Chandler.
The bands sound is incredibly clean and 
compliments Purims voice perfectly. It 
is not just accompanying her but working 
with and around her singing to create a 
musical whole that is far beyond the 
usual vocalist and accompaniment albums 
that have been common in recent jazz and 
rock. This is not just a singer and her back
up band, this is one musical entity. Purims
voice is as much a part of the group as 
George Dukes synthesizer or Raul De 
Souzas trombone. She just happens to be 
the feautred soloist on most of the songs. 
One has the feeling that the music would 
be just as good if a guitar, horn or key
board player had been the main soloist 
but the album would then not have the en
chanting quality Purims voice gives it.
Flora Purim sings like no one else. Her 
voice is unsurpassed in it s crystalline puri
ty and precision. She is probably the only 
living jazz singer that can truly use her 
voice as an instrument. She uses her entire 
six octave range to convey feelings and 
emotions with a directness that surmounts 
all barriers of language and musical style. 
The intensity of her moods comes accross 
equally well whether she is singing in 
English, Portuguese or completely without 
words. This is an artist in the tradition of all 
great music that transcends nationalities 
language to reach a truly universal mode of 
communication.
SHERUT LAAM
You can work in your 
profession, make use of your 
skills and, at the same time, 
experience and understand 
Israel. Sherut Laam is a two 
way program  you can give 
and you get. After an intensive 
ulpan (Hebrew course), you 
will live and work in a 
development town where, 
unlike a tourist, you become an integral part 
of the community. Teachers, doctors, social 
workers, nurses, dentists, urban planners, 
technicians, etc.  if you have six months to 
a year and if you want to really know, 
understand, and experience Israel, join 
Sherut Laam. 
Sherut Laam. American Zionist 
Youth Foundation 
515 Park Avenue, 
New York. New York 10022, 
(212) 751-6070
For information, please send to the above address.87
Name
Address 
City__
-Age.
State_____-Zip______
University(USD-SL)
THE BACH CHOIR OF PITTSBURGH
W. W. WAGNER, Music Director
Presents 
SAINT PAUL
An Oratorio by Felix Mendelssohn 
Church of the Ascension, Ellsworth and Neville, Shadyside 
MONDAY. APRIL 18, at 8 P.M. 
ADMISSION $3.00 - STUDENTS $2.00
Purim has come a long way since she 
first joined the original Return to Forever. 
This is her fourth solo album and should 
expose her to even wider sectors of the 
musical public. This is a very disarming 
album, light, airy and joyful. This lightness 
and the sheer exuberance of her performan
ces are what make it so accessible to a wide 
variety of listeners. This is not a retreat 
from the thundering rythms and powerful 
vocals that characterized her earlier works 
but it is rather a step forward in a new, 
lighthearted direction. It is a simple album, 
filled with love songs and happiness and 
the singular enjoyment of life that charac
terizes the playing of many Brazilian musi
cians. This is not to say that this is a shal
low album, on the contrary the simplicity 
is only on the surface. The depth of 
Purims need and ability to actively commu
nicate on a highly personal level underlies 
every phrase on the album giving it a 
richness of emotion and expression.
This record opens in a peacetul mood 
with You love me only, written by Patrice 
Rushen. Its a gentle, atmospheric song 
featuring Larry Nashs ability to make an 
Arp 2600 imitate a flute. It is a very taste
ful bit of synthsizer work indeed. Paul De 
Souza adds some nice trombone between 
vocal lines and Purim wraps voice around 
the other instruments, lightly captivating 
her listeners and fading away at the end in 
a wordless duet with the synthesizer.
The next cut follows with an abrupt 
change of mood, a driving syncopated beat 
and strong guitar work by Reggie Lucas. 
Purim opens the tune in English but 
sprinkles in little wordless melodies and 
ends up in Portuguese. The high point of 
this tune is George Dukes synthesizer soio, 
his strikingly original playing remains 
highly melodic. He is never carried away by 
the technical possibilities of the synthesiWhat she needs, money cant buy.
There are old people who 
need someone to talk to. Boys 
who need fathers. Guys in 
veterans hospitals who need 
someone to visit them. Kids who 
need tutors.
We know lots of people and 
groups who need your help.
Write Volunteer, 010^, 
Washington, D.C. 20013.
Wfc need you.
The National Center for 
Voluntary Action.
zer as Chick Corea and Joseph Zavinul so 
often are. I'm coming for your love is an 
instrumental again highlighting Larry Nash 
on the synthesizer. It opens with Patrice 
Rushen and Nash playing together, electric 
piano and synthesizer. This theme leads 
into a tasteful and adequate but not really 
inspired solo by Nash. The original then re
turns and the song ends after another improvisational chorus in which Purim, 
Rushen and DeSouza trade off brief 
snatches of a floating lyrical melody.
Side two opens with a vocalise called 
Angels' featuring A1 McKay on guitar. 
This is a peaceful melody, full of tender
ness and a slight touch of melancholy. 
Purim does it perfect justice with some 
hauntingly beautiful singing. Bridges is a 
very mellow song, happily romantic. Her 
voice is caressingly delicate, alternating 
English and Portuguese and blending beau
tifully with Ernie Watts flute accompani
ment. This is one of the prettiest songs she 
has ever sung, especially the ending when 
she improvises above the gentle strumming 
of a harp. Fairy Tale Song is more solid 
and powerful, although highly melodic, 
with help from Reggie Lucas on guitar. 
Lucas solo is intensely moving and Purims 
extended improvisation equally so. The
side ends with a brief, finely improvised 
reprise of Angels ending the album in a 
tranquil mood of peaceful joy.
This album is more a tapestry of mood 
than anything alse. The astounding variety 
and freshness of all it s emotions is a 
tribute to the musicianship of the perfor
mers involved. But it is Flora Purims voice 
that really makes it as moving as it is. Ten
der, lyrical at times impassioned but relax
ing into gentle gaiety, she is th^ only true 
vocal virtuoso in recent popular music. 
She has the power to touch ones soul and 
uses it well. The great goal is to communi
cate, Purim once said. Thats what music 
is all about and no one does it better than 
she.
 LITTLE AMERICA R
Little America is a deft and devastating 
satire of contemporary America in all its nar
cissistic. hedonistic glory. It is a madcap playland 
for adults, a wonderfully fresh and funny novel 
that makes us laugh at ourselves - despite the 
shock of recognition. (3.95)emu bookstore*
baker hall
Brocd Brachnnan
Davi
TO GET 
50M
LIITE
dbSi .Mo 
ng euTT hr 
siovM nali<x 
BREAK. I
tM fablc 
fVE BEEN 
HERE .Mo 3 weeks!
lpi Simmm
fijj AT l-EAST 
you coulo fer
as some 
\ MU&TARD
You CAU Fl 
pur /bS ina 
rbAoMfavi m
Me-1.

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
'i The great violinist tellsin rich detail and with 'i
i[ simple candor-the story of his education as a j
\ musician and as a man; the story of his life, from \
11 the days when he captured the world at age seven 1j
1 as the most spectacular child prodigy of modern \
11 times. i'
< mu bockrtore*
baker hall
PS?SPSPSPSPWS?S?gggSeS?gWScVSt<gSPggS?S?SiH
Jenny Willis ................................................34-10
Gillian Holdridge.......................................20-25
Liza Hayes.....................................................13-17
Shari Belafonte.......................................... 8-17
Victor Brennan.......................................... 26-8
Peter Bond ..................................................25-10
E.J. Williams................................................14-11
Gary Frankston...........................................11-11
Avram Scheiner..........................................14-17
John Maldonado....................................... 9-12
Brian Pierson............................................... 8-11
Paul Schoff...................................................10-15
Charles Forsyth.................................................... 2-4
Jon McGraw.................................................12-19
Matt Bevan ............................................................ 0-6
Sweepstakes Shaping Up In Practice
by Gordon Morrison
Fencers Win Two
by Gordon Morrison SEASON RECORD
Most people do not understand the 
amount of practice and work that goes 
into making Sweepstakes one of the most 
exciting events of Spring Carnival. After 
all, what else could get someone from 
C-MU up at that early hour year after 
year? (Good news this year. Since there 
is no conflict with the flower show at 
Phipps Conservatory, the buggy races
will be at 9:00 AM.
Most of the buggy push teams start 
practicing with the buggy around March 1, 
but that does not mean the first practice 
is then. The pushers want to be in good 
shape before that very first push of the 
saeson. It is bad enough that you have 
to sprint up the hill by yourself, but you 
also have to take the buggy with you. 
People that have never pushed a buggy say 
that the buggy is supposed to roll well, 
so it cannot take much to push the buggy 
up the hill. Even if the buggy does roll 
well, it still weighs nearly 200 pounds. 
It makes quite a difference.
The push team is not the only group out 
there practicing The driver (the one you 
never see that is actually in the buggy. 
No, the buggy is not steered by remote 
control, there IS someone that squeezed
into that little buggy) has to get to know
the race course and buggy, as well as each
pusher. Each pusher pushes differently
and even a little difference is noticeable 
to a driver. (At least, so I am told) Besides 
the practicing, each driver has a full year of 
eating to diet off by the race day. (Since 
the pushers are generally ywice the size
the pushers are generally twice the size
of teh driver, the driver has no problem 
of the driver, the driver has no problem
of willpower. His pushers make sure. 
Every pound that a driver loses, the pusher 
does not have to push.)
Then there is the crew that works on the 
buggy to make any possible adjustment to 
make the buggy even one-tenth of a 
second faster. Change this, oil this differ
ently, heat this, and anything else that 
someone can possibly imagine. Try it at 
free roll practice on the weekend. (Which 
by the way is at dawn) Then the crew prac
tices everything and times ' all the things 
that need to be dene on race day, so that 
everything will be done exactly at the 
right time. Not too early or too late.
Then, you have the guys who have to go 
out at 3:30 AM. to sweep the course 
dean of debris and rocks, so that the 
course will be safe for the drivers. There 
are also numerous flag people to stop 
traffic on the course, and to tell the driver 
when to make the turn past Phipps going 
up to Scaife Hall. (Otherwise known as the 
chute)
To keep everything running smoothly, 
there is a buggy chairperson from each 
organization that will get together with all 
the other chairpeople at the frequent meet
ings Presiding over these chairpeople is a 
Sweepstakes Chairperson, Safety Chairper
son and others. There is also a group of 
people that will judge the buggy for design 
before the race. (TTbds usually takes place 
on Thursday of Spring Carnival in the 
Gym.)
Vinnie Chung won the round table 
tennis finals by defeating Chuck McDaniels 
and previously undefeated Dan Rotar by 
the scores of 3-2 and 3-0.
DATAMATIC 
P.O. BOX 742) 
OAKLAND STATION 
PITTSBURGH, 
PENNSYLVANIA 15213
for the weekend.
per da.y plus l2c 
permito
Monte Cario or similar car
National s low weekend rate makes it easy to drive home, to the mountains, 
or wherever Non-discountable rate available Friday noon to Monday noon 
You pay for the gas you use. and return car to renting location Call for 
reservations today.
1<CO NSUMER PDET AKIGlInd) <9C-O111
550 GUInt StUEEt C<O-5500
GUEItEU PittRMuUgh PiUpSUt C<C-C3OC
We feature GM cars.
*Rt* subict lo chang without none
For Free Brochure - Write
THE COMPUTER-AGE 
DATING SERVICE
CMU vs. IUP
Peter Bond ................................
Victor Brennan........................
Avram Scheiner........................
E.J. Williams.............................
John Maldonado......................
Jon McGraw..............................
Brian Pierson ...........................
Paul Schoff................................
Jenny Willis..............................
Gillian Holdridge....................
Liza Hayes ................................
The Carnegie-Mellon University fencing 
team won their last two matches of the 
season in a very convincing style by beating 
Penn State (Fayette) 3Yi-Vi and Indiana 
University of Pa. 3-1 for the teams first 
two victories of the season without the use 
of the tiebreaking system. Fortunately, 
there is a tiebreaking system for fencing. 
CMU would be 2-1-3 without the tiebreak
ers, but with the tiebreakers, the team fin
ished with a 3-3 record. Everyone on the 
team was psyched up for the final two 
matches of the season, since they knew 
that they needed to win both matches for 
a .500 season.
CMU vs. PSU (Fayette)
Victor Brennan............................................ 4-2
John Maldonado.......................................... 4-2
Jon McGraw .....
Jenny Willis........
Gillian Holdridge 
Shari Belafonte ..
National Car Rental

---------------------------------------------------

Pape 18 - TARTAN - March 29. 1977
Chess Corner IM Notes and Standings
m ---------4^ ,n.'a INTRAMURAL MAJOR LEAGUE Blues
H fli.il fit 111 LM' C*reC badmmton wU1 defl^te*y SOFTBALL STANDINGS BTP-A
MISI
I.M. Co-rec badminton will definitely 
start this week. The schedule should be 
posted on the I.M. Bulletin Board by 
Monday afternoon and play should start 
Wednesday. Tuesday will be available 
for practice.
by Joseph Bartnicki
White to play and mate in three moves.
SOFTBALL STANDINGS 
as of Thursday, March 24
Disco
MDBC-Again ......................................................!. 2-0
Rolling Stone Revue ................................. 1-0
Riverrun......................................................... 1-1
ATO................................................................ 0-0
Zarnoids ........................................................ 0-1
KS-A ............................................................. 0-2
Jazz
SAE .....................................................................1-0
Glorified Plumbers .................................... 1-0
1-0 6E-A.............................................................. M
0-0 GSIABig Bucks ....................................... 0-0
Three D............................................................ 0-0 PKT-A ................'......................................... 0-1
Kumquats ..................................................... 0-1 Franks Laun & Deli .................................. 0-1
Blues
BTP-A ......................................................... 1-0
Mother Truckers ......................................... 1-0
SN-A.............................................................. 0-0
GSIATigers ............................................... 0-0
PIKA-A ....................................................... 0-1
EIAAll Stars ............................................ 0-1
WOMENS INTRAMURAL 
SOFTBALL STANDINGS 
as of Sunday, March 24
Opera
Tri-Delt ........
B-Towerettes
IM Swimming Results
EVENTPARTICIPANTTEAMTIME
200 yd.Parker, Messersmith, Kadar, VogusSAE1:58.0
MedleyFriedman, Uber, Willis, NeilsonArch2:00.3
RelayWatson, Yacoe, Hoysan, WhittakerMixed2:03.0
50 yd.Carhart
r
Mixed25.6
FreestyleKadarSAE26.0
IfftArch.27.6
100 yd.HoysanMixed1:07.7
IndividualYacoeMixed1:07.8
MedleyHurleyAPhiO1:09.0
50 yd.KadarSAE29.4
ButterflyMatysekMixed29.5
GupAPhiO29.6
100 yd.NeilsonArch57.6
FreestyleVogusSAE1:00.6
CrecineMixed1:01.6
50 yd.FriedmanArch33.2
BackstrokeWatsonMixed33.8
HurleyAPhiO34.7
50 yd.MessersmithSAE30.7
BreaststrokeGupAPhiO33.4
HoysanMixed33.5
200 yd.CrecineMixed2:21.4
FreestyleVogusSAE2:27.9
ThompsonArch2:34.9
200 yd.Yacoe, Carhart, Matysek, WatsonMixed1:48.6
FreestyleWillis, Ifft, Neilson, FridArch1:50.0
RelayCimino, Hochendoner, Chieruzzi, HurleyAPhiO1:58.5
SUMMER
Do what interests you most: 
folk dance, work at an 
archaeological dig, study at a 
university, live on kibbutz. And 
at the same time, have a short, 
in-depth Israel experience.
Summer programs offer you a 
number of extra curricular 
activities: you can spend a week 
in Sinai, visit a settlement in the 
Golan Heights, tour big cities 
and historical sites. Meet people 
and gain awareness of Israel as 
a social, economic, cultural, 
religious and political reality.
Have a good time while you are 
doing it Contact the Israel 
Program Center and inquire 
about five- hrough-nine-week 
summer programs
C-MUisra pidaily gdoyw ndoa,ryidac
hlUrMj uUdtUr- qMayMU
khk urU. CAMaoMc eMz gdU.c eMz gdU. fvvmmc 
bkhm Txf1vTv
For information, please send to the above address. 
Nam* Aw
87
Address _
Cite.SteteZin
Urtivani*; /(USD)^/
Chess Answer
1 QXPch, KXQ; 2PXBch, K-N3 ; 
3 N-K7 Mate.
VASQUE
RAICHLE
FABIANO
LOWA
GALIBIER
TECHNICA
Thr JBauntain 7il Stop
SHADYSIDE  5435 Walnut Street (2nd Floor) Weekdays 12 9 Saturday 9 5 687 1700
GO HOME
Flying Home For 
Spring-Break
Let A Phi O start you on 
your way with their shut
tle bus, to the Greater 
Pittsburgh International 
Airport. The bus will run 
April 1, leaving AAorewood at 11:45, 2:15 and 
4:45, and Donner Hall 15 
min. later. Tickets will be 
sold for 1.75 at these 
locations.
Morewood Main Desk 
Skibo Info. Desk

---------------------------------------------------

March 29, 1977 - TARTAN - Page 19
TENNIS TEAM WINS OPENER
by Gordon Morrison score. Mrs. Russell, the CMU tennis coach,
was extremely pleased with the way every - 
The Camegie-Mellon University mens one played, especially the freshmen John 
tennis team won an exhibition match Sze, Mike Straub, and Ralph Peters and 
against Duquesne University on Saturday, also senior Chuck Carroll. Chuck defeated 
The team won five of the six singles match- the number one player of the Dukes, Ed 
es for a 7-2 win. CMU also won three addi- Neal, who is also ranked as one of the top 
tional matches that did not figure in the players in Pittsburgh.
CMU SinglesSCOREDuquesne Singles
1. Chuck Carroll def.6-7,6-4,64Ed Neal
2. Gary Kemeny def.2-6, 6-3,6-3Jeff Weisband
3. Marc Silver def.6-3,6-3Mark Lerch
4. John Sze def.6-1,6-1Don Renalli
5. PaulGehman def.7-5, 6-1Don Presti
6. Mike Straub def.6-2,6-4Mark DeBease
CMU DoublesSCOREDuquesne Doubles
1. Chuck CarrollMark Silver lost64,6-4NealWeisband
2. Gary KemenyJohn Sze def.6-2,6-1Lerch-Renalli
3. Ralph PetersDave Chandler def.64,6-2PrestiAndersonCan yoube good atsomethingyou dotit believe in.
Yes.
You can be good at passing tests that are meaningless to you.
You can be good at selling encyclopedias that you know are inferior.
Ultimately, you can even be good at a profession that you 
dont really believe in.
You can be good. But for some people being good just isnt 
good enough.
For the people who brew Busch beer, it isnt 
good enough. Thats why, at Anheuser-Busch, we persist 
in brewing Busch beer just one waythe natural way.
We frankly believe thats the best way to brew beer.
And when you believe in what youre doing, 
you just naturally do it better.
Try a Busch.
We believe youll agree.
BUSCH
When you beliew in what youre doing, you just naturally do it better.

---------------------------------------------------

20 - TARTAN - March 29, 1977
REVISED
TENTATIVE UNDERGRADUATE AND GRADUATE COURSES FOR SUMMER SESSIONS
Carnegie-Mellon University
during the summer, 1977, will hold two 
six-week sessions as follows:
1st SIX-WEEK SESSION 
May 17  June 24
Regular Undergraduate Courses
2nd SIX-WEEK SESSION 
June 27  August 5
Regular Undergraduate and Graduate Courses
UNDERGRADUATE TUITION:
$28/unit*  All undergraduates
GRADUATE TUITION:
$34/unit*  College of Fine Arts/Humanities 
and Social Sciences 
$45/unit*  Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology/Mellon Institute of Science
*3 units = 1 credit
This is a tentative list of courses to be offered. 
The actual list of courses including class 
schedules will be announced and published 
depending upon student response.
Application materials and further information 
will be mailed upon receipt of your inquiry.
Please give your tentative reply as soon as 
possible by completing the attached form 
and returning it to:
Director, Summer Studies 
Admissions Office 
Carnegie-Mellon University 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213 
Phone: (412) 621-2600, Ext. 8807
(1) =First Session:May 17  June 24; (2) = Second Session: June 27 
* = Graduate Course Number
 August 5
Biology:03-121Modern Biology9 units(1) and (2)
Chemistry:09-105Dynamics and Equilibria9 units(1)
09-117Organic Chemistry I9 units(1)
09-142Physical Chemistryl9 units11)
09-218Organic Chemistry II9 units(2)
Computer15-104Introduction to Computing A (FORTRAN)9 units(1) and (2)
Science:15-111Introduction to Computing B (non-FORTRAN)9 units(1)
15-211Fundamental Structures of Programming9 units(1) and (2)
15-311Software Engineering9 units(2)
Mathematics:21-121Calculus I11 units(11
21-122Calculus II11 units(1) and (2)
21-123Calculus III >11 units(1) and (2)
21-259Differential Equations and Linear Algebra9 units(1)
21-260Partial Differential Equations and Vector Analysis9 units(2)
Physics:33-121Physics I: Mechanics (Self-Paced)10 units(1) and (2)
33-122Physics II: Heat Waves and Optics (Self-Paced)10 units(1) and (2)
33-123Physics III: Electricity and Magnetism (Self-Paced)10 units(1) and (2)
33-124Atomic Physics and Structure of Matter10 units(1) and (2)
Statistics:36-211Probability and Applied Statistics I9 units(1) and (2)
36-212Probability and Applied Statistics II9 units( 1) and (2)
36-215Probability and Statistics I9 units(1)
36-216Probability and Statistics II9 units(2)
36-219Statistical Methods for Data Analysis I9 units(1)
36-220Statistical Methods for Data Analysis II9 units(2)
Civil12-205Introduction to Engineering Mechanics9 units(1)
Engineering:12-211Solid Mechanics I9 units(1)
12-215Materials12 units(1)
Mechanical24-121Thermodynamics I9 units(1)
Engineering:
Carnegie -Mellon University
Name
Mailing Address.
Present School
I am interested in the following course(s) 
Course Number TitleSession
Please return this form to:
Director, Summer Studies 
Admissions Office
Carnegie-Mellon University 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213R2
Nuc. Sci. & Eng.:25-713Nuclear Reactor Spatial Distribution Physics9 units(1)
Metallurgy and27-322Process Metallurgy12 units( 1) and (2)
Materials Science:27 332Physical Metallurgy II9 units(1) and (2)
27-350Seminar9 units(1) and (2)
27-755Metallurgical Problemsvar. units(1) and (2)
27-775Thesisvar. units(1) and (2)
39 227Analysis, Synthesis and Evaluation II9 units(1) and (2)
Biomedical42-500Physiology9 units(1)
Engineering:42-560Undergraduate Projectsvar. units(2)
Economics:73-100Econ. Anal, and Cont. Prob. 19 units(1)
73-200Econ. Growth and Fluctuations9 units(11
73-250Resource Alloc, in Market Econ.9 units(11
73-459Benefit Cost Analysis9 units(1)
English:76-100Freshman Writing9 units(2)
76-407The Contemporary Novel9 units(2)
76-427The Drama of the Absurd9 units(2)
76-581Business and Professional Communication9 units(2)
76-721*Shakespeare12 units(2)
76-851*Functional Writing12 units(2)
76-887*American Humor: Nineteenth and Twentieth Century12 units(2)
76-960*Workshop in Advanced Placement English
 for teachers of AP English only (June 27-July 22)
12 units(2)
History:79-102Shaping of Western Civilization9 units(1)
79 29120th Century America9 units(1)
79-827*History and the Social Sciences12 units(2)
79-856*The Teaching of History12 units(2)
79-857*Readings in Historyvar. units(2)
79-869*Internship in Historical Researchvar. units(2)
79-899*Americans and the National Character12 units(2)
Design:51-116Calligraphy9 units(2)
51-122Introduction to Photography6 units(2)
Music:57-733* 
57-741 * 
57-867*
57 873*
Advanced Choral Techniques (July 5-July 17) 
Advanced Instrumental Techniques (July 19-July 31) 
Administration and Supervision in Music Educations 
(June 27-July 15)
Principles of Music Education (July 18-August 5)
6 units 
6 units 
6 units
6 units
57-875*Contemporary Problems in Music Education6 units(2)
Art:60-751 *Advanced Ceramics9 units(2)
60 251Ceramics9 units(2)
60-229,729*Color9 units(2)
60-119,719*Drawing9 units(2)
60-237,737*Intaglio9 units(2)
60-235,735*Lithography9 units(2)
60-380.780*Contemporary Art9 units(2)
60 254,754*Metalcrafts9 units(2)
60226,726*Painting9 units(2)
60233,733*Relief Printing9 units(2)
60-231.731*Screen Printing9 units(21
60-261,761* 
60 247,747*
60 369,769*
Sculpture
Experimental Metal Platemaking Workshop 
in Lithography (June 6-June 17)
Tapestry Workshop (June 27-July 15)
9 units
6 units 
9 units
(2)
Modern82 107French (Intensive or Programmed)var. units(1) and (2)
Languages and82 123German (Intensive or Programmed)var. units(1) and (2)
Literature:82-143Spanish (Intensive or Programmed)var. units(1) and (2)
82-620Translation Workshop: French9 units(11 and (2)
82-630Translation Workshop: German9 units(1) and (2)
82-640Translation Workshop: Spanish9 units(1) and (2)
82-650Translation Workshop: Russian9 units(1) and (2)
Psychology:85-101Introduction to Psychology9 units(1)
