Tenure Decisions Released
by Steven Correll
For the first time, the CMU admin
istration has made public an -official list of 
all the faculty members whom President 
Richard Cyert has approved for promotion
or tenure.Eleven faculty members were awarded
tenure.The promotions and tenure do not 
actually take effect until reviewed by the
List of promotions and tenure decisions 
is on page 6
Board of Trustees, but the Board was ex
pected to approve all of Dr. Cyerts recom
mendations when it met on January 20.
As in past years, CMU will not release 
the names of those professors who, having 
failed to win tenure, were given a years 
notice that they will be fired. Vice PresDr. Edward SchatzPhoto by Elliot Popowitz
Two SDC 
Officers Resign
by Claire Lee
Two Student Dorm Council officers 
resigned during the initial SDC meeting of 
the semester.
Stressing a heavy work loadboth in 
academics and in the community, Cheryl 
Lawson made an immediate resignation 
from her post as SDC property manager.
Before the echoes of one loss became 
silent, Publicity Chairman Jim Johnson 
made an announcement of his resignation. 
One member commented that Jim had 
been dissatisfied with the lack of cooper
ation, which he receied from fellow mem
bers.
After much encouragement, Vice 
President Bill Jacobs accepted temporary 
responsibility for Cheryls former duties. 
He stated that he probably would not be 
able to maintain this new job for more 
than a few weeks.
Both Cheryl and Jim will still maintain 
their SDC seats as dorm representatives.
Unfortunately, the resignation an
nouncements were made to a half-empty 
meeting (15 out of 32 members showed 
up). SDC has been troubled with a lack ot 
student interest for some time. Current 
members remain optimistic, though over
worked, about the future of SDC, but it is 
up to the student body to receive stimuli 
and respond with criticisms, new ideas and 
an active participation in the projects.
ident for Academic Affairs Edward Schatz 
explained ihat Dr. Cyert. the provosts and 
the academic deans reconsidered the Uni
versitys policy at a meeting before 
Christmas, but decided that such infor
mation should be the private property of 
the faculty involved.
But the total number of faculty denied 
tenure will be disclosed soon, Dr. Schatz 
promised.
The tenure process is lengthy, with de
cisions made at the departmental level-and 
then reviewed by college committee, the 
dean, University committee, the provosts, 
the president, and finally the trustees I 
think the process worked extremely well 
this year, said' Dr. Schatz, who explained 
that controversial nominations got special
treatment. He and Provost Arnold Weber 
tried to anticipate likely problem cases 
so that Dr. Cyert could sit in on the Uni
versity committee sessions dealing with 
those cases.
Still, a tenure decision is likely to pro
voke controversy if the University-level 
recojnmendation contradicts the decisions 
made earlier. Dr. Schatz said that all de
cisions in which the department and col
lege and deans agreed were endorsed by the 
University committee and the president 
this year, but that one nomination which 
came to the University committee with 
conflicting recommendations ultimately resuletd in denial of tenure.
The cost of tenure was not, in Schatzs 
view, much of a factor in this years decisions, despite discussion by the admin
istration last year of schemes that would 
tie the number of tenured faculty to the 
Universitys financial status. The schemes, 
called tenure allocation models, are under 
consideration by the Faculty Senate Edu
cational Affairs Council.
In addition* Schatz noted, some faculty 
members are able to postpone mandatory 
tenure decisionswhich require the faculty 
member to win tenure or leave CMU by 
asking to follow the new tenure procedures 
approved last semester, rather than the-one 
in effect when they joined the faculty. 
The piper will have to be paid in the 
form of increasing the numbers of tenure 
decisions later, Schatz said.
continued on page 6S tartan
January 21, 1975 Volume 75 Number 14
Union Agrees to New Contract
by Kevin Turcotte and Thomas Schwartz
A walkout involving all CMU Food Ser
vice, maintenance and grounds employees 
was averted Friday when members of 
Service Employees International Union 
local 29 voted 118-52 to accept a new 
contract. The strike would have begun yes
terday.
The new contract gives higher pay. We 
offered them a contract as good as any in 
Pittsburgh. said Richard Van Horn, Vice 
President for Business Affairs. We thought 
it better than most.
The original contract offered on the 
14th was rejected. The second contract 
offer was taken to a union meeting to be 
voted on. The outcome of the vote was 
118 to 52 in favor of accepting the con
tract.
1 recommended they reject it, said 
Glavin, the head of local 29. They cer
tainly need the benefits with the economic 
conditions today. He felt, however, that 
these same economic conditions were re
sponsible for the acceptance of the con
tract. Nobody wants to be out, not work
ing, now, he said.
New Security
Director Chosen
by Monci Jo Williams
Michael A. Corletti, former Assistant 
Superintendent of the University of Pitts
burgh Police, has been chosen as Director
of Security at CMU. Richard Van Riper, 
who served as acting Director of Security 
last semester, will remain as Associate Dir
ector.
Corletti was previously Director of 
Security and Safety at Presbyterian Hos
pital, where he established their first inhouse security department.
Prior to that, Corletti worked with the 
Pitt campus police. He started as a patrol
man and later became Assistant Superin
tendent.
I find campus work much more fulfill
ing than working in a medical complex, 
he says.
When questioned about any new 
Security policies or practices in response to 
several thefts and attempted rapes last sem
ester, Corletti outlined a general policy 
which would probably hold true for all 
types of security on this campus. I Would
continued on page 5
Bearing out Glavins statement, a Food 
Service employee interviewed the day after 
the vote said, Well, after all, with the 
economic conditions tfiat are here today, 
the pay is more important than a lot of 
things in the way of benefits.
Working is a lot better than not,said 
another.
The main area of dispute between the
union and CMU was in the past practice 
sick^ have policy. The system allowed 
days of paid sick leave to be accumulated
until, after 14 years, an employee couki
have 72 days o( sick leave.
Some employees were treating this like
a paid vacation. The majority of them were
fair about it but 20 to 30 workers would
abuse it each year, said Van Horn. Its
fair to say that a policy such as this doesnt
exist anywhere else in the city of Pittaburgh. said Jack Hackett, manager of
CMU Employee Relatione.continued on past 16
Photo by Rick Frsntt
Security Director Corletti

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2THE TARTAN-January 21, 1975
editors note
TWO DOORS
When Thomas Jefferson founded the University of 
Virginia, he advocated having a minimum number of rules. 
He thought that petty rules regarding morals would create 
disrespect for law because young people would definitely 
violate them. For dorm living, Jefferson suggested that every 
student have a front door and a back door to his r room. On 
the front door, one would hang his ties and dresses as well 
befits a citizen of the University of Virginia. At the back 
door the student can keep his horse and whore. Its per
fectly all right. There will be no rules,  said Jefferson.
The utopian notion of no rules and absolute freedom is a 
real contrast from younger days. The absence of rules 
negates many of the pre-college socialization processes. Sudd
enly one arrives at a University and is not restricted by rules.
From the first day / entered school, the teacher warned 
me to stay in line. By fourth grade, / ducked in the library to 
avoid must days. These were horrid days on the play
ground where / waited in humiliation to be the last one 
picked for the softball team. Even though Chris Jones would 
punch me and / would cry, the old gym teacher, Sweaty 
Betty, told me that / had to play the game.
Do you remember the time you were sent to the prin
cipals office because you got caught smoking your Marlboros? Well, today your professor may sit in the slassroom 
puffing right along with you. But, our university is more than 
a glorified traditional high school with ash trays. The uni
versity no longer stands in loco parentae. The university has 
given students the righ to come and go as they please. Were 
not told when to go to bed, when to study or what to eat by 
anyone else but ourselves. And it is our right to express 
ourselves in the way that is right for us.
Our freedom is relatively unrestricted. However, this free
dom must inspire responsibility. Living in a diverisfied comm
unity, our obligation to be responsive to those around us is 
essential. Free will provides us with many choices. These 
choices must reflect a responsible thought process.
For example a terrifying personal experience; a girl is 
raped. The rapist has taken advantage of human free will, 
while the victims freedom has been desecrated. The victim 
has a responsibility to clarify the situation to those who can 
help. She must sacrifice her privacy and emotional hurt for 
the sake of those around her. If she does not fake affirmative 
action against the violation of her freedom, another rape 
occurs.
Or, two girls share a room. One is constantly bringing 
visitors at all hours of the night. The other girl wants to sleep. 
Both girls are free to do as they please, but they have the 
responsibility to consider each others feelings. The same 
notion applies to a dorm floor. Respect for privacy is the 
main ingredient of private life.
The dorm is an open community. House mothers and 
curfews have disappeared. But, an open community involves 
consideration of others rights. If respect and sensitivity are 
not maintained, rules will be re-implemented; our freedom violated, in order to preserve our freedom, we must en
courage acts which prove commitment. If our freedom is lost, 
we no tnnqer have any choices.
Individuals within the campus community must also be 
sensitive to human rights. A professor gives preferential treat
ment to the white student instead of the black student or the 
man instead of the woman. While the professor is exercizing 
his or her freedom, that professor has a responsibility to
wards all students.
The artist has freedom of expression; inherent in this 
freedom is responsibility towards the audience to which he 
presents his art. The artist owes th public some consideration 
of their sensitivities. If art is to be effective, it should reflect 
emotions and forethought. Responsibility towards the artist's 
critics should not be a stifling act, rather it should increase 
the artists awareness and use of resources.
When Thomas Jefferson suggested implementing a min
imum number of rules, / think he was on the right track. 
Rules are designed to keep order, but most rules are not 
applicable to every situation. A viable alternative is therefore 
needed. The number of rules within an institution can be 
limited if we exercise our free will in a responsible manner.
We need a room with two doors; one to enter at all times 
without constraint and the other to remind us of resthe conscious level. In that way every 
the opportunity to choose the door they 
will is too precious to be locked by
ponsibility beyond 
individual will have 
wish to enter. Ou 
rules.
Tenure: A fmstrating process for some.Illustration by Mindy Maier
The TARTAN needs a new features editor. 
Writers for sports, news, and entertainment 
are also needed. Call Debbie Siegel at 682-4557 
or stop in at Room 50 in the basement of 
Skibo. Your comments are always welcome,.
tartan
Editor-in-Chief: Debbie Siegel
Managing Editor: Gary Singer
Business Manager: Lester Nathan
News Editor: Kevin Turcotte
Entertainment Editor: Mark Evan Chimsky 
Photography Editor: John Shettel
Sports Editor: Dave Kanner
Features Editors: Dave Cates, Greg McKenna
Copy Editor: Monci Jo Williams
Debbie Siegel
Staff Writers: Diane Bottonari, Steven Correll, Sharon Curcio, James Fletcher, Dolores 
Foster, Fred Freedman, Roger Geddes, Dave Girdany, Lisa Gordon, Arnie Karr, Stacey 
Robin Kimbell, Susan N. Klein, Cheryl Larson, Claire Lee, Lisa Lieberman, Nancy Lyons,
John Mangano, Mike Pochan, Amy Reitmeyer, Paul Smith, John Spalding, Tom Scyvartz,
Chip Yeager, Lisa Zeidner
Photographers: Richard Fisher, Rick Frantz, Courtney Larson, Ed Levine, Dave Meeker,
Elliot Popowitz, Rodman Reilly, John Rose, Mark Segal. Fred Shamilian, Brian Smith
Business: Tony Fine, Tom Kendig, Arthur Silverberg
Art: Nancy Bink, Nonie Dempsey, Kitty Fischer, Mindy Maier
Lavout and Typesetting: John Mangano, Ronnie Savion, Paula Strasser, Carl GrefenstetteDave oroupe
The F.ditorial Board of the TAR TAN reserves the right to edit jr withhold any copy that it considers unfit for 
publication. Funded by Student Government of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh,Penn. 15213. Editorial 
offices are located in Skibo 50, Business office in Skibo 52. Telephone (412) 682-4557 or campus extension656.

---------------------------------------------------

arrtiorv J 
rropfcn fll
od prices*^
Risi
--mmCbnshiutfa 
of iht.
^~T\
"%'S
ttmt" HooAUfer.n
[C I
,64ocdViooa\ S^jt 
|Mcm p\pyr\ent.
_ fil Control* Txefr 
[boni ng- 3b MarKct>
THE TARTAN-January 21, 1975-Page 3
news comment
&F Peter B. Steams 
Heinz Professor of History
History teachers for some years have worked to be relevant, a goal 
which is a bit hard to define but boils down often to teaching courses 
that draw a lot of students. More recently, but more desperately, 
unemployed historians have sought new kinds of work. Without pre
tending to offer a panacea to either dilemma, it can be suggested that 
historians can be relevant, find jobs and get and additional bonus, that 
of being new and real assistance in dealing with current social dilemmas. 
Historians can help identify and solve social problems in ways they have 
avoided to date. They can be relevant in ways they have not clearly 
imagined. They can even find jobs in areas not previously open to them. 
They can learn new approaches to history, which urge the students 
interested in earning a living, or, even better, in thinking about a better 
world, that history is not only an adjunct but a necessity if we are to 
understand what is going around about us and what we can do about it.
The new approach can be called applied history. It suggest that 
historians, usually along with other social scientists, social engineers and 
the like, team to figure out what the nature of a particular issue is and 
what can be done about it.
Few social problems are brand new. They may not go back to the 
middle ages, but they rarely started yesterday. Only a historical ap
proach can determine how new they are, and therefore how deep tfieir 
roots. We know, for example, that America, compared to most indus
trial countries, is unusually crime-prone. Presumably it would be desireable if we had less crime. In fact we have been unusually crimeprone for decades, and well before the over-ballyhooed era of Proh
ibition. This means something goes back fairly far in American exper
ience to make us this way; which means, in turn, historians need to be 
brought into any serious assessment of what to do about it. This is not 
just a plea for general histories of American crime, though these can be 
useful and fun. It is a plea for specific work on specific crime situations. 
A group of CMU students is just beginning a study of the history of 
crimes against government housing projects in Pittsburgh, not simply to 
describe how they occurred in the 1930sthat would be conventional 
researchbut to trace them to the present day, to suggest solutions 
based on this history and relatedlyboldest of all for historiansto 
predict how trends will run in the future if they are not altered by 
positive measures. Another project deals^with the recent history of 
health care for the elderly, not only the results and methods, but the 
attitudes behind it, and whether historical precedents need to be 
reexamined, along with continued technical research, if we are to bring 
Americas treatment of the elderly ill up to the levels of any other 
industrialized countries or beyone.
This is a kind of history that can be taught. It has to be aggressive, 
against those who think that history involves a casual glance at one or 
two data from the past or against historians^who think that history 
must definitely shy away from any narrow utilitarian purpose. Far from 
displacing other social research, applied history should join with it. Nor 
will it, in the teaching field, dislodge the history course that goes back 
to the past because it is fun, different, even irrelevant, an approach that 
a certain number of students seem always to cherish, from their first list 
of American presidents in grade school onward. But this is a new kind 
of history in which, I hope Carnegie-Mellon can pioneer, at all levels of 
teaching and in new orientations to research. As an historian I must be 
skeptical of any radical predictions of change. But I honestly believe 
that a professional, trained historical perspective, brought to bear on 
current human needs, may just inch us ahead toward meeting those 
needs. Certainly other social sciences, working alone and with their won 
limited bision of the human past, have failed in their recent efforts. I do 
not expect, in the near future, the appointment of a presidential 
council of historical advisers, but it might do as well as the host of 
other councils that have met without benefit of professional historical 
knowledge, while veering from one prediction to another without 
result. And, in combination with other social sciences, I dont think it 
would be a half bad idea. And I believe we can interest people and train 
people, to serve a similar function, even if, initially, at humbler levels. If 
we think of a new breed of historians as identifiers of the roots and 
degree of novelty of specific current problems and we get them to be 
listened to, we may avoid a lot of mistaken experiments and yet be able 
to find that we can innovate, indeed must innovate, boldly in other 
situations.
Peter Stearns came to CMU last semester. He is head
of the H&SS search committee to select a new dean.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4THE TARTAiM_january 21, 1975
announcements
Free announcements will be given to 
organizations: 1 ) located within the 
Pittsburgh city limits, and 2) advertis
ing events that are non-commercial and 
without admission charge.
Events that do not fit this description 
may be advertised in the same manner 
as classifieds  5 cents/word, payable 
m advance.
CMU Ski Club introduces a ski and party
trip to Seven Springs, Friday, January 24. 
This introductory trip includes transpor
tation, Friday night skiing and a compli
mentary party with refreshments immed
iately following skiing. All are welcome, 
the total cost for members is only $6.50; 
$7:50 for non-members. The bus Will leave 
Skibo parking lot at 4:30 pm. Please sign 
up at the Skibo Information Desk by Wed
nesday, January 22. For more information 
call 682-5662.
Hunt Library is planning a book give-away
for'the week of February 3-8. During that 
period members of the University com
munity will have the opportunity to 
acquire books and other publications not 
needed any longer by the Library. A table 
will be set up in the basement of Hunt 
Library which will be stocked daily with all 
the withdrawn books. At the same time the 
Engineering and Science Library will hold a 
give-away of discarded technical and scien
tific material.
Final ReminderAll students who intend
to apply for financial aid for the '75-'76 
academic year must have forms submitted 
prior to February 1, 1975. Forms are still 
available in the Financial Aid Office, 210 
Warner Hall.
On Thursday, January 23, at 3:30 pm,
John Flynn from the School of Medicine at 
Yale University will speak on Neural As
pects of Attack Behavior in Cats. He will 
speak in the Wherrett Room, Skibo.
C. Howard Marcy State Hospital, in East
Liberty area, needs volunteers to teach 
basic living and working skills to high 
functioning mentally retarded adults. The 
main idea is to train residents towards a 
more independent life. We need volunteers 
during the day, evenings and weekends. 
Please call 441-5675.
A Valentine's Day Affair entitled "Sweet
heart's Festival" will be held at the Jewish 
Community Center, 315 S. Beliefield Ave. 
in Oakland, Friday, February 14 from 1 to
4 pm sponsored by Youth City of Pitts
burgh, Inc. Guests will include patients 
from all mental health programs and hos
pitals dealing with the emotionally disturb
ed, mentally sick and retarded. Students 
and those concerned for our handicapped 
are desperately needed. You may contact 
Youth City by calling 281-4132 or by writ
ing 304 Ross Street, Pittsburgh, PA 15219 
if interested in helping.
Two days of Marijuana in the Wherrett
Room? Yes, on January 27, the Psy
chology Colloquim and Campus Program
ming Planning will be offering a talk deal
ing with marijuana and other substances, at 
12:30 pm in the Wherrett Room. This dis
cussion is entitled, "Marijuana: What Does 
It Really Do To You?" and will be given 
by Dr. Lewis Harris of the University of 
Virginia. His talk will center around re
search findings on immediate and long
term effects and uses of marijuana. On 
January 30, an assistant district attorney, a 
judge and a police officer will participate in 
a panel discussion offering their percep
tions and stands on marijuana and other 
drugs. This program is brought to you by 
Campus Programming Planning.
Resident Life and Campus Programming
Planning bring you the program "Rape: 
Who, Why, When and How?" on Wednes
day, January 28 at 7:30 pm in the Wher
rett Room. The areas to be covered are: 
Why are men rapists?. What legally con
stitutes rape?, procedural information if 
attacked and the supportive resources avail
able at Carnegie-Mellon. Other topics for 
discussion will be: high risk areas to avoid, 
suggestions for women to protect them
selves, and who is raped, the styles and 
localities.
The Activities Board and Campus Program
Planning proudly present an evening of 
entertainment, featuring Jewel Walker and 
Paul Draper, Wednesday, January 22 in the 
Skibo Ballroom.
Looking ahead to February? On February
3 at 7:30 pm in the Wherrett Room, Dr. 
Herbert Simon will be giving a talk on 
"Intelligence: Artificial or Natural." Be 
sure to mark this one on your Campus 
Programming Calendar.
There will be a coffeehouse on Friday,
January 24 at 9:00 pm in the Wherrett 
Room. Admission is free and refreshments 
will be served.
Pantomime artists, juggling acts and similar
forms of entertainment are wanted. Please 
contact the Skibo Information Desk and 
leave name and number in the coffeehouse 
mailbox.
Don't miss the discussion on Heilbroner's 
book An Inquiry into the Human Prospect,
Breed Hall, 7:30 pm, February 5. Another 
Campus Program Planning event.
Who is Takis Mouzenidis? He is the Dir
ector of the National Theater, AthensGrece, and he'll be giving a talk on Greek 
Theater, Thursday, February 5 in the Ball
room. From the folks at Campus Program 
Planning.
; /
There will be a meeting for all booth chair
persons (for Spring Carnival) Sunday, Jan
uary 26 at 3 pm in room 46 of Skibo to 
answer all questions about booth contracts.
Make sure you attend Volker Hartkopf's
.presentation: "People vs. Nature," Tues
day, January 20 at 7:30 pm in the Wher
rett Room. Sponsored by Campus Pro
gramming Planning.
Ski Club general meeting Wednesday, Jan
uary 29 at 7:30 pm in Skibo room 45. 
Future ski trips including February and 
Spring holidays will be discussed. New 
members welcome.
Thistle '75 CMU yearbook decided to
extend their cover design contest to Feb.
15. All CMU students, faculty and staff are
invited to participate. The prize is a free ^ 
subscription. Design limitations: 3 or less 
colors, 8V2 x 11 format. Cover title
"THISTLE' 1975." The theme of the book 
is "people make it happen-" the cover can 
relate to this idea. Please turn in written or 
some sort of visual ideas to Skibo info 
desk: Thistle mailbox.
Want straight talk on drugs?
PEER HELP 
Students Heiping Students 
Baker Hall 150A or ^1-9900
Classified
FEMALE VOLUNTEERS who are sad, dis
satisfied, listless, blue, low. Wanted, for 
research on psychotherapy for depression 
run by clinical psychologists at Pitt. Call 
Cari Fuchs 624-4496. Leave name, phone 
number.
M/F roommate (s) wanted. 1 or 2 people to
share 3-bedroom apartment. Call 661-3598 
after 6 pm.
Mother's helper for private room, bath,
board. 4-7 Monday-Friday. Care of 9-yearold boy, light kitchen help. Additional jobs 
on fee basis. 422-8310 days, 521-7583 eve
nings.
SDC is looking for a properties manager.
The pay is $100 per semester. Interested? 
Call Regina Hopkins, 682-8899.
Roommate wanted: Second floor apart
ment in Tudor-style house. $81.25/month 
includes 16' x !8' bedroom and use of den, 
kitchen and bath. Act quickly, quite a bar
gain. 5837 Beacon (Sq. Hill). 421-0650 
(evenings).
Typing, resumes, term papers. Reasonable,
quick, professional. Call 781-6762.
Female models needed for promotional
campaign. Earn excellent salary in spare 
time. Send photo and. resume to A&R 
Associates, P.O.. Box 7220, Oakland 
Station, Pgh. Pa. 15213.
summerneurope
CHARTERSi
mrnimCALI TOLL FREE 1 800 325 4867REG. FARE
Help Improve the Economy...
Sell ads for the TARTAN and stimulate consumer spending. The position of advertising manager 
is open; enthusiasm and dedication are the only requirements. Earn a commission on every ad
sold. We'll teach you everything you need. For more information, call Lester Nathan, 682-4557 
or C-MU extension 656.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-January 21.1975-Page 5
Cyert Speaks Out
Asked to reconcile this stand with the 
granting of tenure, Cyert said he does not 
believe in tenure, but that it is necessary in 
order to compete with other schools for 
good faculty.
Cyert hoped that Faculty Senate and 
Student Senate would begin working more 
closely on issues of intramural and varsity 
sports.
At the beginning of the program, Cyert 
made a statement on the contract 
negotiations, which had not been settled at 
that time, involving Food Service, main
tenance and grounds employees. He urged 
the cooperation of students and faculty in 
weathering a possible strike, which was 
averted a few days later when union mem
bers approved a new contract.
Perhaps because the program was broad
cast during the dinner hour, only two stu
dents responded to WRCT moderator 
Arnie Karrs invitation to call in and ask 
Dr. Cyert questions.
One question dealt with the possibility 
of a tuition increase, and the other with a 
refrigerator that had been blocking the 7C 
elevator opening for a month.
The refrigerator was moved the morning 
after the show, and the elevator door is 
once again clear.
by Nancy Lyons
continued from page 1
like to establish preventive, security. That 
is, to make a real effort to identify prob
lems before they occur, and then to trice 
whatever steps necessary to prevent them.
Corletti also commented on the role of 
Security and drugs on campus. I don't 
think this campus has any more of a drug 
problem than, say, Monroeville MaB ... I 
see no need for outside law enforcement 
agencies unless requested by the Univer
sity. Such help would be requested only
in cases such as bomb scares or fire, when 
the University security force would be un
equipped to handle the problem rione.
As to whether or not Security officers 
will carry guns or other weapons, Corletti 
said that while he hasnt had an opportun
ity lo evaluate the situation ai of yet, 
Security officers will moat probably con
tinue not to carry weapons.
Corletti also\ commented on the recent 
sale of the CMU security ambulance.lie 
pointed out that CMU^still had emergency 
service, including oxygen, stretchers and 
transportation to the hospital when moh> 
sary. CMU is not more than three nriMates 
from any major hospital,* so sty dlls we 
still assured professional csre at a hnapltri 
in emergency cases.
Corletti expressed interest li 
ing and improving communication adm 
his force, as well as with students. inw 
he is generally familiar with tfce (MB 
ara, Corletti intends lo be0n by mI| 
with Security officers in the Mi li oedar 
to get to know the CMU caribou Ni aAeo 
hopes to set up orientation propraM riKMt 
campus security and safety wHk AriMs, 
and added, Im looking forward lo meet 
ing with students in the Alture.**
Corletti was selected as Director of 
Security from more than 200 applicants. 
The search committee consisted of the 
Vice President of Business Affairs, two pro
fessors, two Security officers, one regulsr 
staff member, and oone student (who later 
dropped out). Corletti was aleo interview
ed, along with two other final applicants, 
by the Executive Committee of Shsdsnt 
Senate. Out of the three men questioned, 
the student committee recommended the 
hiring of Corletti to the search committee.
WRCT Budgeted $2800
station. For the last several years, the 
sports fund has gotten along on S400 a 
year.
This semester the station asked for an 
increase in its allocation to $681. Accord
ing to Student Senate Treasurer, Willie 
Thompson, Student Senate allocated to the 
station all it asked for, over a $150 increase 
from the previous years. This, Hochendoner said, will just cover sports fund ex
penses. The station will still have to submit 
a budget request next month for the 
75Fo76 school year.
The station manager also revealed plans 
for a full survey this week among the CMU 
community to estimate how many people 
listen to away games on WRCT. To help 
determine WRCT plans, those results will 
be polled with the results of a recent sur
vey taken at a home basketball game.
Other WRCT departments will benefit 
too. A new board will replace the old 
remote board, hopefully upgrading the 
stations coverage of Spring Carnival.
WRCT has been budgeted over $2800 in 
funds for the remainder of this semester. 
Of this figure, almost $700 will go to the 
WRCT sports fund, for continuing broad
cast of CMU I asketball and hockey games, 
as well as for renovating Spring Carnival 
broadcasting equipment.
Dave Hoc! endoner, the stations general 
manager, originally feared that the sports 
fund would rcreive less money. This would 
have jeopardized the shorts departments 
plans to broad :ast as many basketball and 
hockey games as possible.
Hochendoner remarked that a staff of 
three people is required to broadcast any 
game; two announcers and one engineer. 
They work without pay, but away games 
are relayed back to the studio by costly 
telephone lines. Moreover, it takes money 
to install the remote equipment at the 
other school. Price increases in both these 
areas have, up to now, squeezed the
UNIVERSITY COPY SERVICE
209 N. CRAIG ST. 681-5411
HIGHEST QUALITY . . .
sharp permanent XEROX copies 
on 20 lb. bond paper or customer's 
own letterhead
call about our large volume rates and 
delivery service - or any special copy
ing needs
Collating ..................No Extra Charge
Legal Size ..............No Extra Charge
3 Hole Punched .... No Extra Charge 
2 Side Copying........No Extra Charge
Lowest Prices ...
(per original)
.........1st copy
....... 2 -20 copies
.........21 or more copies
Please: Help prevent forest fires.
In the
< , Earthworks Exchange 
 \ Building

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6THE TARTAN-January 21. 1975
Student Senate 
Revises Calendar
by Diane Bottonari
In a lengthy meeting last week, Student 
Senate revised the 1976-8 school calendar 
and gave WRCT an additional $2844 to 
restore sports programming and buy 
additional equipment.
And, less than a month after Senate 
amended its constitution to elect represen
tatives by academic major rather than by 
midence, Dave Groupe placed on the next 
weeks agenda a proposal to return to the 
old system.
The mid-semester allocation of funds to 
campus radio station WRCT was most con
troversial. The Finance committee, chaired 
by Willie Thompson, had earlier approved 
the additional money, and in a close vote 
Senate followed suit. The Spring.Carnival 
budget -and additional money for the 
TARTAN were also approved.
Senates Academic Affairs committee 
presented two alternative calendars for the
1976-7 and 1977-8 school years. After con
siderable discussion, Senate adopted the 
plan under which the fall semester would
Violencestopshere...
The community of ( od. 
Make it vour wav
RIALIfUClOt IN MtBlCOKiff
\ Put*c Se'wce a* A The A<?wert4ng Ccaxo
RUGS
With your ID cord
For
Less
1000 Room-Size Rugs 
9x12s - $15, $19, $29, $39
also 6x9s, 12x12s, 12x15s etc.
Smaller area rugs in 
Oriental, Indian Et Furry
CHASE'S RUGS
4513 Liberty Ave., Bloomfield
(54-C Bus lets off of the store)
open doily 10 to 6 p.m., Fridoy to 8 p.m., 
Saturday til 5 p.m.
FOR INFORMATION & DIRECTIONS621-1025
start before Labor Day and thus end De
cember 19, rather than the alternative 
post-Labor Day plan. The latter would 
have scheduled classes up to December 24, 
complicating Christmas transportation 
arrangements for non-residents.
General Campus committee chairperson 
Larry Kurzweil proposed that Senate spon
sor a booth in this years Spring Carnival. 
The proposal was met with enthusiastic 
approval by a majority of the senators. 
Details of financing and construction will 
be submitted next week.
Plans for a Student Senate column in 
the TARTAN and a Senate telephone talk 
show modeled after the existing Cyert 
show on WRCT were announced by Infor
mation committee chairperson Doug 
Konopka. Both would encourage better 
communication between the student body 
and Senate.
Senate Chairperson Susan Olshansky 
announced that Senate secretary Helen 
Gundlack has been hired by CMU to serve 
as Student Activities Secretary.
continued from page 1
These are going to be rough decisions 
from now on, he said, noting particularly 
the shrinking enrollments that have caused 
some public schools to experiment with 
weakening or abolishing tenure. Uni
versity administrators are going to be hard 
put to make decisions humanely, to make 
sure no c.ie gets hurt even though they 
have a responsibility to protect the insti
tution.
AWARDED TENURE
Cletus Anderson, Department of Drama 
Lee Cass, Department of Music 
William Chase, Department of Psychology 
Robert Dunlap, Department of Metallurgy and 
Materials Science
Sylvia Farnham-Diggory, Department of Psy
chology
Michel Fougeres, Department of Modern 
Languages
Charles Neuman, Department of Electrical Engin
eering
Peter Ordeshock, School of Urban and Public 
Affairs
Edward Prescott, Graduate School of Industrial 
Administration
Richard Roll, Graduate School of Industrial 
Administration
William Wulf, Department of Computer Science
PROMOTED TO PROFESSOR
Salvatore Castellano, Professor of Biophysical 
Chemistry
Robert Dunlap, Professor of Engineering and 
Public Affairs
David Hartshorne, Professor of Chemistry and 
Biological Sciences
John R. Hayes, Professor pf Psychology 
Peter Ordeshook, Professor of Political Science 
Timothy McGuire, Professor of Economics and 
Statistics
Edward Prescott, Professor of Economics 
Richard Roll, Professor of Economics and 
Industrial Administration 
Douglas Wilson, Professor of Art 
William Wulf. Professor of Computer Science 
PROMOTED TO ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR
V. Joseph Bowman, Jr., Associate Professor of 
Industrial Administration
Gerald Costanzo, Associate Professor of English 
Robert Eisenstein, Associate Professor of Physics 
Samuel Fuller, Associate Professor of Computer 
Science and Electrical Engineering 
John Grason, Associate Professor of Electrical 
Engineering
Peggy Knapp, Associate Professor of English 
Nelson Macken, Associate Professor of Mech
anical Engineering
Anthony Penna, Associate Professor of History 
John Ramage, Associate Professor of Statistics 
Richard Staelin, Associate Professor of Industrial 
Administration
PROMOTED TO ASSISTANT PROFESSOR
Richard Lenburg, Assistant Professor of Art
Have The New York Times reserved on campus
Contact 
CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY BOOKSTORE 
Schenley Park
or mail this coupon 
Second Term
? Weekdays 
(MrnuFri- $9.75 )
Daily subscription rates on campus are 25% below the newsstand price.
NamePhone
School Address

---------------------------------------------------

oult hmeEesfec ws yeue
BRATION OF SHAKESPEARES 
ANNIVERSARY.
I The beautiiuIDi^aJ
 c v e n i n
depart
Htpcarc's^H^^I^SS^H
 Stevens
 was a (1   j
"T.
i S i|p^|>
 Shakesperc^B yjjpP^|H|
r ^'T)(-
O t it > I . 4J. _
I : vrf'-'-M
.% :.  at ten ' IB -
g i.e. r< of <v  SHH 
>; : ; i ' ! > f < i cncsts.Mffi>&V-3
3 by i n \ it a 1 . jlgjjiSL 
1 than I VF J
1 i- only 420. ' 9^8
"I thought tl'*vJ9H 
I terest you by 
I other students.
;?| Oxford and one JB8| 
I of Berlin. The M 9 
E wihlers the Ameif^^B 
I i - the sudden cliai 
I attitude in regard ilw 
I lard and Germany ti9H 
I 1; tesis. After twollj 
I tion the examinational 
I for two weeks. AbclIB 
the written examinai 
|| amination takes place.31 
where from 15 minute! 
and is very terrifying I 
finding out what a mal 
indent  ved i: ? 
m which  Yn-i; :
T .mph Over Rivals by Ov;
ing Score.
The annual contests betwflHM 
Sophs and the Plebes. staged ^u 
day afternoon, resulted in a M 
victory for the second year mer|H| 
panic-stricken, persecuted 1lebcHj 
hittered by individual sir
against the sophisticated SophoiB 
appeared on the field of co 
united in their determination to of| 
revenge for the insulting indigni 
rained upon them^ They relied 
their numbers to gain their end,
blmse,we FsEfwfrfe pw .eyspup,t wffEkrm, essEtuHlswlIhmwu 29, 1914
T
*|rh?' i llli.
otbali Te.. Jpens From Home 
W th Sm ug Memberst
to face their rivals on equal terms.
1 he first events on the progra* 
"ere the wrestling matches whi. 
proved the do>est of the contest. Til 
lightweight class, Holeton,
Sophomore of the Industry School, 
"as forced to struggle the entire five 
minute preiod to gain the decision
(,ver his freshman foe, Gullett. In
t]le middleweight class, Sherbian, a 
.Science Plebe, brought joy to the 
j(arts of his classmates and shortd visions of victory by throwing 
.j1' Pponent, Baker, in three minutes, 
heavyweight bout was a long
which ended in a draw betwe*i 
ghertv, Sophomore, " T.
omit DomitsMORE MONEY 10 TE(H
Faculty to be pensioned by Carnegie 
Foundation on retirement. Two mil
lion dollars have been added to the 
endowment fund of the Carnegie Institue, including the Institute proper 
and the technical schools, by their 
founder, Andrew Carnegie, according 
to an announcement made by Col. 
Samuel Harden Church on Thursday, 
June 4.
I The two million dollars is to be diidcd equally between the library, mu|um and The Carnegie Institute of, 
chnolOgy. This makes the total 
Vis of Mr. Carnegie to these instituis $24$00,000. As a result of the 
jr >t giftj the budget of the institute 
| be enlarged $100,000 per year.
: director and faculty of these 
Us, the director of the museum 
e Department of Fine Arts and 
J the curators in their departs are engaged in teaching will 
ted pension allowances upon 
nt by the Carnegie Fotwdathc Advancement of Traclithe same terms as instrucher institutions of learning 
Foundation has already ap
his is recognition of the fine 
by these departments, and 
ledly make these posi<:' . 
de in the future 
ing report from tinCommittee was ;i  
f Fine Arts, .
DECLARED.
 A
TRAPEZE
es Have at Last 
e Hatchet.
ual Fall Festival 
f>rld last Friday 
s beyond all exendance which 
rly to their full 
popularity and 
* I body in the 
ve been grati -  mitee in chargc of
>* Stair, who spent a great deal of 
time and effort in order to make it 
,i success.
The festivities of the evening com
menced with an Indian fight. The 
warriors who ordinarily parade our 
halls and c!ass rooms clad in modern 
attire, cast aside their dignity for the 
time being, and arrayed themselves 
in war paint and blankets, with a 
skill that would make the predecessor 
of the pale face turn green with envy. 
The battle w'ith the Medicine Man of 
the defending tribe doing homage to 
the Great Father. This w*as followed 
by a corn dance of the tribe around 
the council fire. Unless our eyes 
failed us the turkey trot, tango and

---------------------------------------------------

TRAPEZE
Page 8 January 21, 1975
"A Sense of History"
Home Ec At 
Carnegie Tech
by John Mangano
Although the early college catalogues emphasized the 
fact that Margaret Morrison Carnegie College would pre
pare women for salaried positions upon graduation, the 
actual objectives of the school were, as trustee Lucien 
Scaife (a bachelor) described them:
To make and inspire the home;
To lessen suffering and increase happiness;
To aid mankind in its upward struggles;
To enoble and adorn lifes work, however humble,
These are womens high prerogatives. 
A* demeaning as these words may sound to a woman 
of the seventies, they were in accordance with American 
Societys view of the species, as well as that of the 
school's founder. Deeply touched by the immortal
ization of his mothers name, Andrew Carnegie wrote to 
the Margaret Morrison Carnegie College Trustees in 
1906, echoing Scaifes sentiments, which were to be 
inscribed on the buildings facade upon its completion 
the following year. In the fifty years that followed, the 
cwricolym reflected Carnegies view of women as dom
estics sad secretaries.
According to the catalogue of that year, the female 
fttttdent entering MMCC in 1910 pursued a course of 
included two years of general training with 
on home-making. This was followed 
by one year of specialization in one of the following 
fMdt, tending to a diploma;
A. The Household Arts. Designed to stimulate and 
dmlop an interest in the profession of home-making 
... Actual work is done in a furnished apartment by the 
in rotation; each one acting as housekeeper and 
parlor maid and waitress, kitchen maid and 
. The institutional part of the course trains 
for positions as housekeepers, dietitians for 
Of institutions, womens clubs, school lunch 
etc
Dressmaking as a profession and for its use in the 
The method of instruction follows that used in the 
work-rooms... Supplemented by a course in derig.'
C. Costume Design Course offers an opportunity 
for young women of originality and artistic ability to 
mafee use of these talents in practical ways as designers 
of original costumes, illustrators of costumes for fashion 
magazines and millinery plates, or as cataloguers of costor importing and dressmaking establishments.
D. The Secretarial Course prepares students not 
to become stenographers and bookkeepers, but
for positions requiring broader training and larger infor
mation, such as private secretaries, registrars, record and 
filing clerks and teachers of commercial branches.*
continued on page 9
Once outside the building we sought in vain for the 
tender ivy we had so hopefully planted on Class Day. 
Alas for tradition and precedent! All gone with the 
wind. Who is there to make known the whereabouts of 
the trowel we Ixxfueat/ied to the junior class? And, the 
unkindest cut of all, the beloved prerogatives are so 
covered with grime as to be almost illegible. We were 
inspired to organize a bucket brigade on the spot for a 
cleanup job. Has the motto been outgrown or for
gotten?
Bess Sheets Gaston 09 
At the 1954 Class Reunion
Lucky Strike Green Goes to War
-DENIM BLUES
After living away from college 
for a number of years, it is defin
itely astonishing, and at the same 
time, disgusting to return and be 
confronted with the present style 
of dress in the college coed. 
When I left ... to enter the 
Army, women dressed as women.
Today things are much differ
ent. It is possible to see almost 
any combination of clothes on 
the campus. One of the favorite 
styles seems to be the wearing of 
a pair of torn, grease-spattered, 
paint-smeared jeans and a cast
off mans shirt in the same con
dition. It is the usual practice of 
the wearer of these articles to 
roll the legs of the jeans up to 
somewhere between the ankle 
and the knee (never evenly), and 
to have the tail of the shirt flap
ping in the breeze . ..
Do these girls realize wiiat the 
average veteran thinks of this 
change that took place while he 
was away? ... His expression is
one of disbelief, as if his eyes had 
failed him.
European Infantry Vet 
REVOLTINGEditor:
As a veteran of this war I have 
seen many things, some strange, 
some curious, and some revolt
ing. But one sight that seems to 
combine all three of these phases 
is the cigarette-smoking girls that 
one encounters everywhere on 
the Tech campus .. . They are 
truly a . . . revolting [sight]. .
Do these girls puffing away on 
their fags think that they are 
being sophisticated, or that they 
are products of an enlightened 
civilization? If they could hear 
the remarks that are made about 
them by the fellows, they might 
be inclined to think twice about 
their smoking habits. A fellow 
who has seen the war first hand 
isnt easily impressed by an im
mature girl trying to be mannish. 
Why stick to cigarettes, girls?
Why not lignt up a corn cob pipe 
and be done with it? The final 
effect in both cases is assuredly 
the samea tremendous dis
traction from your greatest 
asset-your femininity. This is 
something you may not be able 
to laugh off so easily. As a fellow 
Veteran put it,  I didnt think I 
was fighting for this type of 
womanhood. . ..
If you want to take a poll, 
youll find tiiat between two in
telligent, beautiful girls, a fellow 
will choose the one'who doesnt 
smoke. Of course, you may be 
the type that has no use for 
menor men for you.
Air Force Vet
-A WOMANS BEST DEFENSEDear G.I.s:
You seemed terriBly concern
ed with the lack of femininity in 
the modern coed. You havent 
given your definition of femin
inity, but I think you imply the

---------------------------------------------------

Page
ontinued from page 8
f The only other areas of study open to the female 
tudents of that time were in the School of Applied 
H)esign. The School of Applied Sciences and The School 
Bor Apprentices and Journeymen had all male enrollBnent. Women were not allowed to tread the path to 
wSngineering Hall until 1942 to answer the call for traincivilian and military personnel during the war. Even 
flthen, enrollment was severely limited. During the war 
years, only twenty women were registered for these
 courses. And it was not until 1950 that a woman was
 awarded a degree in engineering. Overall, during the
 twenties and thirties, women received 40% of all Bach elor Degrees at Carnegie. The forties saw a fapid decline 
I in these figures, and by the sixties, women received only1
25% of the degrees. Women have never received more 
wiat 2% of the doctorates awarded by Carnegie.
Because of the tiny place awarded women in schools I such as Carnegie Tech in their early years, the percentage 
I of women in technical fields such as engineering is small, 
f With employers bowing to equal opportunity laws, there 
is a great demand for women in the sciences. Thus, the 
i average starting salary offered a woman engineering grad
uate is slightly higher than the average offered her male 
counterpart.
^ The concerns of female students undergoing academic 
pressure have changed considerably over the years. Edna 
Smith, a Household Arts major in the Class of 1909 
recalled that I endured insomnia for many nights in the 
fear that by some quirk of fate my trembling hand had 
cut out my cooking apron so that it would open in front 
rather than in back. Male companionship was some
thing to be sought after hours, for the girls were kept
TYPICAL COURSE OFFERINGS IN THE HOUSE
HOLD ARTS PROGRAM AS DESCRIBED IN THE 
COLLEGE CATALOGUE, 1910, MMCC:
FOODS I Production and Preparation. Practical work in 
cooking all typical food. Emphasis is laid on the effect 
of heat and methods of applying heat. (Plebe, 2 credits) 
FOODS II Preparation and Service. A great variety of 
foods is prepared, and aspecial attention is given to skill 
in manipulation Family portions are prepared. (Soph
omore, 2 credits)
FOODS III The preparation and serving of refreshments 
for small functions, such as luncheons and afternoon 
teas. (Junior, 2 credits)
106. HOUSEHOLD SANITATION Lectures and siscussion on the location of the house, arrangement of 
rooms, drainage and plumbing, cleaning agents and dis
infectants as applied to removal of dust and invisible 
dirt. (Soph. 2 credits)
safe across the muddy trail from Engineering Hall. 
When addressed by Director Hammershlag, said Ms. 
Smith, we were treated as pupils in a select boarding 
school. One historian has written that the Faculty 
were prompted to issue certain pronouncements to quell 
romance. The minutes of the 1909 Grievance Commit
tee document a case in which four Maggie Murphs 
were charged with conduct unbecoming students of the 
college on two separate occasions:
1. By walking through corridors of the A and J
January 21, 1975 Page 9
Building, challenging boys into conversation at noon 
recess.
2. By seeking transportation -on a furniture wagon 
which '"happened to be passing by school at noon recess 
of a different day. Students plead guilty.
Dean Mary Breed dealt with the young truants 
accordingly: The girls were not allowed to leave the 
building at noon recess for a week, and for some reason 
obscured by history, were advised to avoid the board
walk on the way home.
As recently as 1971, the Commission on the Status 
and Needs of Women at CMU has argued that The 
University has been unable, or unwilling, to free itself of 
its masculine image. The most powerful departments 
seem to be the ones which employ few women. The 
departments that pride themselves on their strength 
offer few incentives either to women faculty or women 
students. A report from the Undergraduate Womens 
Task Force in 1974 reaffirmed the Commissions find
ings that some senior women say that they have been 
discouraged by professors and advisors from applying to 
graduate schools. They are told to get married instead. 
The Bureau of Placement offers them little assistance, 
other than advising them to become secretaries.
Over the years, programs of special interest to women 
have not fared well at Carnegie. The school of Social 
Work, added to MMCCs programs in 1917, was elimin
ated in 1953; The School of Nursing was abolished, and 
the School of Library Science was transferred 
off-campus (to Pitt) in 1962. Ultimately Margaret Mor
rison Carnegie College was phased out, its last degree 
being awarded in 1973.
combed hair, pretty dress, shin
ing face and generally the shes 
lovely, shes engaged, she uses 
Ponds type ...
Let us look at a woman as a 
human beingshe is one, you 
know. The sole purpose of a fe
male human being is not to serve 
as a setting for the male... 
although she desires to attract 
men, just as men desire to attract 
women. Men have other am
bitions, desires and purposes in 
life. Why do so many men refuse 
to see that women have too? ... 
She doesnt want you men who 
fought to come back only to see 
the whole miserable business be^ ginning again. And she doesnt 
believe her part consists of sitting 
around concentrating on making 
herself attractive while she wist
fully hopes for the best .. . Were 
working hard; weve become 
more interested in living wisely 
and better able to do [so] than 
our un-emancipated sisters were. 
0 Why judge a girl by whether or 
not she smokes or what she 
wears? Surely your insight goes
deeper than that. Perhaps you 
havent admitted the true reason 
for your attitude. Could it be 
perhaps that you resent a woman 
thinking of herself as a human 
being and daring to put herself 
on the same plane with 
men? . ..
I dont want to turn this into 
a battle of the sexes. I dont 
think its necessary in our gener
ation, where weve been forced 
to gain perspective at a young 
age. I would like you both to* 
know that we women want to be 
your friends as well as your 
sweethearts; that we have no de
sire to be your ornaments; that 
besides faces and figures, we have 
minds and souls even as your
selves; that wed like you to look 
at us, not at what were wearing; 
and that whether or not a 
woman smokes has nothing to do 
with what she is.
Sincerely, 
Sheila Berger
A 1943 Maggie Murph contemplates her future.
As A Sense of History begins its run in TRAPEZE, I 
would like to thank Ms. Pauline Goldstein for intro
ducing to me the riches of the Hunt Library Tech Room, 
which inspired this series.

---------------------------------------------------

Paoo 10January 21, 1975
TRAPEZE
IF YOU DON'T WANT KISSES YOU CAN
W
by Lisa Zeidner
Not only engineers at Carnegie-Mellon take a conven
tional, career-oriented approach to education. Fine Arts 
stresses formal training and art history as a pre-requisite 
to original expression. One outcome of this professional 
orientation is that Fine Atts students are more anxious 
to prove their competence as Artists than to try new 
or daring work. Seniors David Beck and Jim Julien, who 
gave their eighth performance in December and plan 
another for next month, are an exception here. They I 
admit their work is not bizarre at all compared to what 
elsewhere-but only at C-MU could we get ! 
it. .
The performances, held in the Doherty sculpture de
partment, are extracurricular, but Jim and Davids paint
ings and sculptures are usually show props. Jim has made $ 
vending machines selling laxatives for shows on The 
Future; David has painted elaborate arches as backdrops 
for tatoo parlors.
The December 11 Rain Dance Polka consisted of 
Jim, as a tadpole/frog, dramatically presenting tuxedoed 
David, who pulled scarves from hats and eggs from 
mouths. They were assisted by the cheerleading of an 
antelope with flags and a fur dancing girl with six legs 
and three heads (Ant, Moose, Pheasant). Then the ushers 
(with ties, flashlights and black noses, and Jim and David 
in full blackface) led the spectators outside on a long 
trek made amusing by Wizard-of-Oz chants, to a display 
where David (changed into cloak) lit fires and Jim scold
ed everyone for not chanting Yabba Dabba Doo. So, 
everyone chanted, then went back inside to listen to the 
band, to have glitter thrown on them by the ushers, and 
to eat cookies with beer (relabled Professor Synkoloid 
and Dr. Spackles Mamba Sauce).
That Jim and David can get fifty people to feel giddy 
over the Flintstones the'mesong is an accomplishment. 
But a question is whether they should call it art. Evalua
ting different art is always problematic; if it can't be 
shelved in traditional schools, people get squeamish and 
want to make new niches in which to file itavant 
garde, kitsch, dadaist.
An tvening or
Entertainment 
with Paul Draper and Jewel Walker
January 22 8:30 pm Skibo Ballroom
Sponsored by Campus Program Planning 
and the AB Lecture Committee

---------------------------------------------------

TRAPEZE
January 21,1975-Page 11
ARE YOU A SON OF A B ?
SMELL BETWEEN OUR FINGERS
Or An A,0,AB. If So We Can Use You In Our Plasma 
Program. Presently we are using many students in Our 
Physician Supervised Plasma Donation.
You Can Help Contribute Plasma Needed For Such 
Products as: Factor 8 for Hemophilia, Gamma Globulin 
Serum Albumin, Vaccines and Diagnostic Reagents.
For Your Time and Contribution 
You Can EarnS60.00 Per Month. 
Call Us At 682-3190 Tor Full Details.
SERA-TEC BIOLOGICALS
Hours: 8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m.
Mon.-Fri.
3407-09 Forbes Ave. 
Pittsburgh. Pa. 15213
use
Jim and David reject such defining as a useless, angelon-pinhead concern, although they regret the miscon
ceptions viewers have about their work. People dont 
know how to handle humor, David says. They can 
take whimsical, fairyland stuff like Klee, but as soon as 
they detect anything real in it, they feel threatenedO 
theyre making fun of usand want to put us down to 
clown status. This has been the reaction of their teach
ers, who are supportive, but tend to shrug them off as 
buffoons. The tension between the formal and comic is 
exaggerated, David says, we are not arch enemies.
Such tension is partucularly acute at C-MU. People 
spend night after night making prints and shoving them 
into drawers, Jim notes. There may be some antag
onism because we get immediate gratification. The 
rain-dance audience, however, was nothing but receptive. 
If anything, there is an intoxicating cliqueness about 
Julien-Beck fans. Most of the viewers are friends; Jim 
and David come out and eat jes lahk reglar folk, 
preferring to be called Peter Polik and Paul Pleasant.
There is nothing wrong with audiences enjoying 
themselves. Indeed that is Jim and Davids major con
cern, discounting Davids claim that were only trying 
to build an image so we can send these boys to the Mardi 
Gras. Were selling kisses, too; French kisses are a bit 
extraand, Jim adds, if you dont want kisses you can 
smell between our fingers
Contributions, Peter and Paul note, should be addres
sed to the Itll Do Construction Co.- if its not Itll Do, 
It Wont.
Roy Rogers, cowboy star, finally took delivery ot his long-awaited pair ot 
custom boots-made with crocodile skin inlaid with silver and precious stones.
Roy never before had such a pair of boots, and hed owned 1,276. Slipping 
them on, he decided to give them a trial ride on the range, and as he rode, he 
kept looking from right to left, admiring the beauty of his footwear.
Suddenly, an angry cougar leaped from behind a huge boulder. With a single 
swipe of his claws, the cougar shredded Roys left boot. As nice a guy as he was. 
Roy was infuriated. Leaping out of the saddle, he killed the cougar with his 
bare hands, threw the dead animal over the saddle and returned angrily to the 
ranch house.His ever-faithful wife, Dale, standing on the porch, immediatly sized up the
situation and exclaimed:Pardon me, Roy, is than the cat that chewed your new shoe?
Despite Jim and Davids glibness about their perform
ances, it is disconcerting that they cant get serious 
criticism from teachers and students here to improve 
their idiosyncratic humor. The danger of cuteness is 
real to both of them, and does seem to be the prevalent 
attitude towards their work, even among fans, many 
of whom, as artists, dont even equate these perform
ances with real work. If the comedy is inside stuff 
its an inadequacy, David stresses. While the personal, 
unpolished quality of the performances accounts for 
much of their charm, such efforts will always be inside 
jokes at C-MU until people start paying more attention 
to them, and until more people start aggressively making 
their work public.
Jim Julien (tadpole) makes his entrance and David Beck 
(Dr. Spackles) attempts to raise a dead rabbit from a hat. 
Those are ushers Stan Klein and Sue Julien smiling 
in the background.
; ' I.  Vyy>Ki
' J nto from the. famoi/5 ^
Siz>ic. njAnua.1 by Epictetus.
Be mostly silent", or pe^K. 
merely txneL in
coorxis. aJz, ooay,
Some+,mt.s, ccAs,in J
*alls *; Ut it not ; 
ru* ani * rt. Unmto <
'SJ j&CrfSj as j fac/or- J
*>orse rucAs, or- A+hle.'h c* ___v
C'hampi0re 0r f'oodi, or otrmk *
S'

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12 January 21, 1975TRAPEZE
NAPOLEON SOLO
INTERVIEW 
vith ROBERT VAUGHN
suEvan Chimsky
Tile bellboys stood listlessly in the Hilton lobby, 
{atfFerent and decorative as the muted red drapes. The 
elevator traveled with a smoothness that seemed to sugst it could soaf effortlessly ad infinitum, or at least to 
thi penthouse on the twenty-fourth floor. Robert 
'/mghn was ensconsed on the ninth floor, at the far end 
of a classy corridor. There was an assurance about the 
placethe expensive air and plush carpets were soothing; 
aaat insulation from the noisy, human traffic outside.
of us grew up with Napoleon Solo. His sturdy, 
virility commanded our adolescence. The 
Mm From U.N.CL.E. was TVs scaled-down answer to 
tfee profitable, cinematic James Bond series. Households 
across the country were eager for the macho glamor that 
tfat show exploited and mocked. Like a proper superiaaro, Robert Vaughn has aged well-the surprising grey 
flecks of hair only further distinguished the already 
'harming face. His tiewas loosened and he looked 
wearythe toll of weeks spent promoting his new film 
The Towering Inferno. This was his second interview 
that morning, still he smiled graciously as M.C. Pilecki 
(Pitt News), Rhonda Gelman (WYDD), Fire Chief John 
lioran, and I were briskly ushered into his suite. He sat 
down, facing us, and propped his feet up against the 
edge of a glass coffee table, anchoring onto it, occasion
ally swaying back and forth in his leather chair.
Mr. Vaughn, you once said, Actors have traditionaly borne the stigma of emotional unreliability. Ah, but 
.jut that Ph.D. after your name and people have to take 
yam seriously. Is your doctorate, then, a kind of defense 
producers typing you as the cartoon hero of The 
vm U.N.CLE. and The Protectors?
Hi directed his attention toward me and answered 
idly, No, nothing as profound as that. 
id he went back to school because he wanted the 
Simple reason; the response direct. The 
tuality that some stars indulge in was 
of with all the swiftness of a Napoleon Solo 
karate chop.
Rhonda Gelman turned on her tape and jumped in
with the first question that would be broadcast, You 
play a Senator in The Towering Infernowhat was your 
reasoning, if any, for choosing this type of part to play. 
Also, do you have some type of personal connection 
wifh the movie as far as the amount of problems they 
have, in the city, with safety devices and precautions in 
skyscrapers?
No to the second part. As far as the first part is 
concerned, I simply did the picture because I thought it 
would be a great success. Nothing to do with playing a 
SenatorI could have played a fire chief.
In a Saturday Evening Post interview, it was noted 
that during the middle-sixties, Robert Vaughn was ex
travagantly obsessed with John F. Kennedy. The article 
hinted at a secret life that; Vaughn pursued, playing the 
quixotic President behind his formal desk (an exact 
replica of the one in the Oval Office). So, in his off 
hours, The Man from U.N.C.L.E. dreamed of another 
superman, investing in accoutrements that would 
build a physical reality from a private, ideal fantasy.
Was th Senators role modeled on any one partic
ular Senator? I asked.
Robert Vaughn shifted in his seat. Not really. Hes 
the junior Senator from California. Ah, John Tunney, if 
you willwho obviously aspires to the Oval Office. I 
dont know whether that parts left in the picture. But 
then, I havent seen the picture. But its just a Kennedyesque progressive.
Score one for art sublimating life.
When asked if he felt he was being typecast in polit
ical roles lately, he responded: Well, two out of the last 
dozen have been politiciansHarry Truman (for TV) and 
this one in The Towering Inferno. I wouldnt mind 
that [typecasting]. But it really hasnt happened so far. 
He paused, and for a pensive moment, succeeded 
(without really trying) in looking like a member of the 
Kennedy clan. His manner is akin to their fresh auster
ity, their guarded intensity.
What makes you choose a certain role? My voice 
broke his mood. I know you said you chose this one in 
The Towering Inferno because you knew it would be 
successful, but why do you choose most roles?
Because Im available and I need the money. Theres 
a common myth which I will explodeif it hasnt been 
exploded before. There are about twenty actors in the 
world that get scripts delivered to their doorstep in the 
morning. The rest of us work because we need the 
work . . . and were available.
Interviews can be vivid with subtle strategies. I posed 
my question as if it were an answer, carefully checking 
my reference data. Then why did you do Hamlet for no
photo by Rodman Reillysalary years back?
I was available and nobody offered me anything 
else. And it was also a lot of ^fun. The most difficult 
acting role in the English-speaking language, and Id 
done it twice before. And wanted to give it another try. 
The sharply-angled face turned embarrassed; as if 
there was risky vulnerability in acknowledging such 
purity, in claiming a partiality for the aesthetics of his 
art. He suddenly became the commercial prostitute, 
shyly admitting to the beauty and innocence of virgin
ity. His quiet desire to chance artistic endeavors is 
evidenced by his diverse list of credits. All actors long to 
be Oliviers, but many realize they must accommodate 
the market or fail. Vaughn is energetically straight
forward about his compliance with the industrys 
demands; dealing in no pretensions concerning the cold 
mechanics of Hollywood. He appears flatly opportun
istic, a shrewd product of the corporate executives who 
molded him and made him marketable. Yet his little 
contradictions and inconsistencies make him human. In 
his dressing room, he once had two glossies hangingone 
of himself as Napoleon Solo, the other depicting his 
performance as Hamlet. Below the first he had a label 
that read commerce; beneath the second was written 
the word art. Robert Vaughn realizes the value and 
power of each, and his career has'embraced both. Will he 
ever tjy his hand at classical drama agian?
He answers cynically, his eyes flashing suggestively, 
Sure, Id do anything.
I ask if theres any one particular role he would 
especially like to play, and although he strives for a light 
flippancy, his Voice is edged with a thoughtful sincerity. 
Well, Ive already done, as I said before, Hamlet. But 
now that Im just about at the age where I cant do it
anymore, I want to play it one more timeon film. Ive
BNAI BRITH HILLEL* 
JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
1
CAFE HILLEL (Formerly Cafe Tel Aviv) 
DAILY LUNCH PROGRAM  Monday through Friday
11:30 A.M. 1:00 P.M.
THURSDAY IS DELI DAY
DINING CLUB
For Students on All University Campuses 
A MEAL PLAN TO FIT EVERY STUDENT
Meal Tickets for Those with Irregular Schedules 
SABBATH DINNERS 
For further information call 621-8875
315 S. BELLLFIELD AVENUE (ACROSS FROM HEINZ CHAPEL) 
621-8875----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ATHLETICS AND PHYSICAL RECREATION AT CMU
OPEN MEETING!
FRIDAY JANUARY 24 4:30-6 ROOM 46 SKIBO
The Faculty Senate Student Affairs Sub-Committee on Athletics 
would like to hear YOUR views on:
 the CMU facilities
 the varsity program* the intramural program
 the women's program
BE REPRESENTED!
For further information contact Bill Cohn, Chairman;
BH 236 B or Marty Lisberger, P. O. Box 1 19

---------------------------------------------------

MEET
TRAPEZE
January 21, 1975 Page 13
PRINCE HAMLET
never done it on film. I expect to do it this year or next 
spring for the CBC (Canada), and then, that will be the 
end of it.
Rhonda Gelman, obviously assigned to probe the Fire 
Chief, veered our attention from Mr. Vaughn to Mr. 
Moran, whose rough, sturdy frame looked ill-at-ease, 
somehow awkward in such a streamlined setting. He 
spoke about high-rises and the towering infernos that 
have flared in Atlanta, New Orleans and Brazil, and how 
our modem fire-fighting equipment is incapable of 
reaching beyond the tenth floor of any building. We 
lounged politely in our luxurious chairs and nodded 
grimly about the terrible statistics and senseless deaths. 
But it was all mock-solemnity. None of us were very 
unsettled. We didnt dash out of the Hilton shouting for 
better safety provisions and reforms. No, our cassette 
recorders kept running smoothly and we all continued 
jotting notes and volleying questions. Morans words 
were technical; it was easy to believe ourselves removed, 
comfortably distanced-from the disasters described. His 
matter-of-fact words were part of a formality that we 
were obliged to respond to. Our fear and outrage were 
ceremoniously empty, lacking any resonance. We need 
,the graphic immediacy of films like The Towering 
Inferno to jolt us out of our complacency, to frazzle us a 
little.
Fire Chief Moran began rambling and repeating him
self, like a child pleased with the avid attention he is able 
to garner just by speaking. But his discourses were in
effectual, undisciplined. It came as pleasant relief when 
Ms. Gelman finally remembered Robert Vaughn and 
asked him if, in the movie, the elevators were in regular 
operating order during the fire.
Well, I recall myself running into an elevator and 
trying to keep people from using it. We do use the 
elevators. See, I die a little earlier in the film. There is a 
much bigger fire after I die.'
His tone was deliberately satiric, and yes, we deserved 
it. The Fire Chief took no notice, though. He began 
speaking again and everyone seemed to settle back in 
their chairs, less animated than before. I broke in mid
way with an Ah, Mr. Vaughn not quite aware that 
Mr. Moran had more to say about the location of a 
sprinkler system in the U.S. Steel building. I apologized 
and waited till he cued me that he was done.
Mr. Vaughn, is the movie a push for us to install 
better safety provisionssuch as sprinkler systemsin 
our high-rise hotels?
He answered that he didnt think the. movie producers 
were very concerned with pushing fire-prevention 
maybe pushing box office. You see, if it happens that it 
creates an interest in fire-prevention, thats an adjacent 
thing to the intention, which is to get people to watch 
the picture.
So then, its pure escapist fare?
Yes, definitely.
To what does he attribute the rise in films that 
portray disaster today?
Well, the first one was a great success. And Holly
wood copies itself. When they have a successful motor
cycle picture, they do more motorcycle pictures.
Rhonda Gelman spoke eagerly, Aside from the box 
office salesis it due to the fact
There is no aside.
No aside?
Thats the only thing.
The room became hushed, as if some torturous sen
tencing had just been issued. Everyone appeared very 
still as I began to speak. Mr. Vaughn, youve said. Im 
very capitalistically inclined. I earn my living by acting, 
but it sure as hell isnt my life. Are politics
Vaughn sprang up from his chair, with an incredul6us 
grin. Where are these quotes coming from?
Youd be surprised.
He conceded with a smile. Okay.
How much a part of your life are politics now? Are 
they more a part than acting?
continued on page 14
Robert Vaughn in 
"The Towering Inferno".
^Thereis'a^ * difference!!} 
 PREPARE FOR:RAPE Who, Why, When,
Over 35 years 
of experience
and success
Small classes
MCAT DAT LSAT GRE : ATGSB : OCAT *: CPAT : FLEX : ECFMG : NATI MED BDS 
 Pittsburgh Branch: 
I  681-9735 i
January 28 
7:30 pm Wherrett Roomand How?
Voluminous home  
study materials 
Courses that are 
constantly updated 
 
Make ups for c
missed lessons #
BranchesRaped, 1907Kthe Kollwitz

---------------------------------------------------

TRAPEZE
Page 14January 21, 1975
photo by Rodman Reilly
Irwin Allen (the producer of Towering Inferno) is work
ing with, and also a movie in Italy with Carlo Ponti, 
Rene Clement and Maria Schneider. They all start rough
ly the same time, so whoever makes the deal with me 
first gets my services.
And eventually you'll get to be Hamlet on the 
screen? asked Rhonda.
I hope so.
We all agreed that we were looking forward to seeing
it.
Robert Vaughn tilted his head, reflectively. Getting 
a little old. I feel Id better get it in next year. He sort 
of laughed and the interview was over.
We turned off our cassettes, thanked him for his time, 
and headed for the lobby. The bellboys still stood there, 
blankly. They could afford such disinterest. After all, 
they were on the first floor. No fire could ever hostage 
them. Their exits would always be dear.
continued from page 13
Much more so in the past, during the sixties and the 
American involvement in the war. In 68 I left the 
country, not because of disenchantmentbut I certainly 
was, I guessand started to work in Europe a lot, and 
I've been there, for the most part, during the last six 
years, doing the television series [The Protectors] and 
eight pictures. Does that answer the question or not?
It indirectly did. Robert Vaughn has no aspirations to 
follow in Jane Fondas footsteps. His fierce public rage 
against the war in Vietnam is but a remembrance of 
things past. It was a cause he promoted long before 
pacifism became radical chic. His 1967 interview on 
Meet the Press and lecture at Harvard (which earned him 
a five minute ovation), were righteous rallies that are 
now long-forgotten by audiences who watch him on 
reruns of U.N.C.L.E.. He fought not because it was 
fashionable, but because it was just. Since the wars end, 
he has become less vocal in commenting on government 
policy. He only plays at fictional politics now.
Rhonda Gelman hunched forward. In a wrap-up, Dr. 
Vaughn, could you possiblv detail what you're currently 
involved in, if anything. You stated your goal was to do 
Hamlet' on the screendoes that mean youre not 
going to pursue any other character portrayalsjust 
basically work on the Hamlet role and make that a 
grand finale?
No, definitely not a finale; and Im pursuing many 
things that all conflict with each other in the next sixty 
days. I have three pilots that are on the drawing boards, 
two that my company has developedanother one that
MOSDAY. JAM WRY 27 
12:S0 PM. 
\YI1ERRETT ROOM
THURSDAY. JAM WRY 30 
12:30 P.M. 
\\ HERRETT ROOM
Spi insured hy Campus Program I'lanninf*
PART II 
MARIJUANA: IS IT ONLY 
AN ILLEGAL ACTIVITY?
PART I
MARIJUANA: WHAT DOES 
IT REALLY DO TO YOU?
This interview was originally broadcast on WYDD.

---------------------------------------------------

...X" w/b WfyJB
UXXIN6 RR atte. IfDOH/MX
Maat# t? merenooo.HEy!ft5ceBAte^
HL6cfl? Hfll///rSV 
ONEOf^ffeE IUCE 
rSCT-trDINQiffit 
Fr 5H?iflW& M/crvae 
OKMlfnSerAAEW 
goet /02 IT mm
iWfe ANyWw r 
msr^mn --V
M&WwK lWt^ 
(MLCNEOV.... S'
BNAI BRITH HILLELJEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
MARX BROS. & OTHER COMEDIES 
Saturday January 25 9 P.M. 
HILLEL LOUNGE, 3RD FLOOR
Jewish Community Center (Across from Heinz Chapel) 
Popcorn and other refreshments
315 S. BELlEFIElD AVENUE (ACROSS FROM HEINZ CHAPEL) 
621-8875
TRAPEZ
January 21, 1975-Page 15
The Amish Girls
OPENING TONIGHT 8 O CLOCK 
FORBES STREET GALLERY 
ED. D. SCHMEDDIE 
MRS. W. P. SCOTT 
GAIL GIBSON
la - M Toe Kan
: XI5E0 IN 
ft CHflonc. CoNfrtME^mON CAUfDWEW
xmcny.M-LfjxN
, ^v&.MUOf-COlORED uef; 
CRMNS- -flSOWWKiN^ 
juAJWf. faa (Mej Ufllx flET ;/ctpe5 A A/D 
kJAK fiS 1W ABO! H0S.
/or two young Amish women and their guardian, seen on 
the train from Chicago to Pittsburgh.
The Amish girls 
are truly cherry-faced.
They blush in the flowery habits 
of their mother: the summer 
dresses that she discarded 
in the Fall,
with a multitude of blossoms 
fully open-swirling 
sedately on the patterned 
fabric. They part their hair 
cleanly straight
and bun it tightly back 
so that a smile of sun 
is reflected from their scalps 
It is as if I took 
a wet palm leaf,
green and fresh and strong, 
between my hands and pulled 
it taut in the sunshine: 
so immaculate 
is their hair.
And the cherry-faced Amish 
girls will braid their hair 
and wear such dresses a summer, 
bestowing these on their daughters 
in warm Fall.
by Anthony AdlerIllustration by Mark Evan Oiimsky
A

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-THE TARTAN-January 21, 1975
The heights of peace are not 
scaled by the angry and vio
lent climber. Violence always 
obscures goals and dissi
pates constructive energy. 
The path of non-violence 
leads to God. It is a realiz
able goal. Individual women 
and men have achieved it. 
Perhaps some day nations 
will. You and I can help show 
the way. Get together with 
your family, friends, neigh
bors, or co-workers to dis
cuss the problems of violence 
and how you can work to
gether to help solve them. 
For a helpful discussion 
guide and further informa
tion write: Religion In 
American Life, 475 Fifth 
Ave., New York, N.Y. 10017. 
Play an active role in your 
community and . _
help show the | f\ | y
way. RELIGION IN AMERICAN lift
The community 
of God.
Make it vour wav.
Because it is there
photo by Rick Frantz
Crush 
all smokes 
dead out.
Please: help prevent forest fires.
Strike Settled
continued from page 1
YOURANTICIPATEDENGINEERING DEGREE SHOWS YOUVE PLANNED WELL FOR YOUR OWN FUTURE.
The Chemicals and 
Plastics Group of 
Union Carbide challenges 
you to help us plan 
the worlds future.
Speak to our 
representative when 
he visits your campus. 
February 4,1975
PEOPLE PLANNING THE FUTURE.
Chemicals and Plastics 
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F
I can understand their problems, said 
Glavin, but my people have problems 
too.
The final policy that the union accepted 
contains the original sick leave provisions 
but with it are some very strong language 
controlling the abuse of it. Even as a dis
charge offense, said Van Horn.
My attitude is, if [employees] abuse
sick leave, theyre not being a good sister 
or brother to the union, and Im sure not 
paying the piper for them... said a 
Food Service employee. It [sick leave] 
shouldnt have been an issue at all, but it 
had to come to a head.
The contract also has a lessened medical 
benefit plan. The Universitys policy is 
that you cant get all the good things, said 
Van Horn. We were at the outer limits of 
our economic resources as it was.
Glavin commented, I dont feel bad 
about it at all. I got the voice of the 
people. Theyre the ones who put me here 
and Im glad to go along with them. Its all 
very democratic.
!|

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-January 21, 19/b-Paye 17
Fate of Donner Desk 
to be Decided
V Lisa Liebemian
A survey being distributed to Hill Dorm 
sidents will determine the future of the 
onner desk. Students will evaluate the 
eed for a desk and give their opinions of 
ts effectiveness and suggest what could be 
one to improve its services.
The Donner desk was instituted this 
ear as a convenience for Hill Dorm resdents. The location was chosen because 
onner is a central spot that is easily acessible to the Hill Dorms. The desk is 
taffed by RAs at night and currently 
landles medical emergencies and general 
"nformation. Although it is modeled after 
the Morewood desk, it doesnt have as 
jmany facilities. For example, students 
Rocked out of their rooms must still go to 
Morewood to obtain a key.
Bob Linn, the Assistant Head Resident 
whose office is in Donner, likes the idea of 
a Donner desk if it is being used. Theres 
nothing here at night. The Hill residents are 
totally isolated. He hopes to expand the 
functions of the desk to include recreation
al activities but added, It may be [abolish
ed] if the survey results arent positive.
Study Break 
to be Moved?
\bv Diane Bottonari
Rita Cohen, Director of CMU Food Ser
vices, is considering moving the study 
'reak, usually held in the Skibo cafeteria 
I to the Donner Hall Lounge. Although stu
dent attendence at the Morewood study 
break has remained steady, Skibo attend
ance dropped significantly during Fall final 
exams. One reason cited for the poor show
ing is the time element involved in walking 
'from the Hill Dorms to Skibo. Some stu
dents claim that the last study break was 
poorly advertised. If the break were moved 
to the Donner Lounge, service to the Hill 
Dorms would be greatly improved.
What she needs, money cant buy.
There are old people who 
need someone to talk to. Boys 
who need fathers. Guys in 
veterans hospitals who need 
someone to visit them. Kids who 
need tutors.
We know lots ot people and 
groups who need your help.
Write "Volunteer, 
Washington, D.C. 2001 S.fcMWe need you.
The National Center tor 
Voluntary Action.
Student Designer 
Wins Award
pp....
Donner Hall Desk photo by Rick Frantz
by Marianne Vakiener
A senior design student. Bill Capps, was 
the recipient of a two hundred dollar 
award for his proposed solution to the 
problem of too many posters on campus.
Capps proposal was one of five which 
Dean Swank received in response to his 
September request for a solution. The 
judging was done by Swank and Ed Fisher 
of the Design Department.
The plan divided posters into four cate
gories: for sale/rent, wanted, rides/riders: 
constant services (typing, Peer Help, etc.) 
and events (films, concerts, etc.).
A job will be created for a work-study 
student to put up event posters only in 
specific areas already existing, to remove 
any unauthorized posters and to replace 
any which are stolen.
According to Capps, there are between 
twenty and thirty poster areas existing and 
his method will cut down the number of 
posters needed by any organization. Per
iodically all old posters will be cleared 
from the areas and recycled. Areas in Skibo 
now used primarily for the non-event pos
ters will continue to be used in the same 
manner.
Bill Cappsphoto by Courtney Larson
10 MINUTES
OF YOUR TIME
COULD SAVE 
A FRIENDS LIFE
In the time it takes to drive 
your friend home, you could save 
his life.
If your friend's been drinking 
too much, he shouldn't be driving.
I'he automobile crash is the 
number one cause of death of 
people your age. And the ironic 
thing is that the drunk drivers
responsible for killing young people 
are most often other young people.
lake ten minutes. Or twenty 
Or an hour. Drive your friend 
home. That's all. If you can't do 
that, call a cab Or let him sleep on 
your couch
We re not asking you to be 
a doctor or a cop Just a friend.
rDRUNK DRIVER. DEPI Y*
BOX 2345
ROCKVILLE. MARYLAND 20852 
I want to save a friends life 
Tell me what else I can do
My name is____________________________
Address_______________________________
n
L
Citv..Zip_j
IF YOU LET A FRIEND DRIVE DRUNK,YOURE NO FRIEND.
J

---------------------------------------------------

?????????????
For The Eyes Only
Super Steeler Sunday
by Arnic Karr 
Dedicated to Ira. who came to spend it.
For all but a lucky few who made it to 
New Orleans, Super Sunday as well as 
much of the Wonderful Week which pre
ceded it, and the Marvelous Monday which 
followed it, was a day spent in front of the 
television set for most Pittsburghers. Jay
walkers had a safe day. Beer distributers 
made out like bandits. Couches and chairs 
all over the city were subjected to un
reasonable workloads. While the Steelers 
kicked ass at Tulane Stadium, most of their 
fans in the Steel City sat on theirs.
Here at Carnegie-Mellon, the inactivity 
went into high gear on Saturday night. And 
early. If my residence, Pi Lambda Phi, is 
any indication, most of the campus was 
catatonic by 6:30. As long as mouths could 
still move, Super Bowl talk was every
where. Abandoning all hope of studying 
and realizing that, due to all sorts of intox
ication, even walking would be difficult, 
about half of the house had assembled in 
the TV room (which features a lunar land
scape on wallpaper) by 8, in time for All in 
the Family. Once again, Archie failed to 
show. CBS used the half-hour to plug its 
new show, The Jeffersons, which will be 
the second Lear show in which black mem
bers of one cast spin off to their own. In 
this tear-jerkingly overdone episode, Edith 
represented the Bunkers for the farewell 
and, after four good-byes, the Jeffersons 
finally moved to an expensive high-rise in 
Manhattan, affording viewers everywhere 
the new opportunity to eavesdrop on the 
black middle class. At 8:30, there was a 
special animated adaptation of Carl Reiner 
and Mel Brooks 2000 Year Old Man. 
Hilarious, to be sure, but we wanted foot
ball in the worst way and were left un
satisfied.
Maty Tyler Moore started on a 
hopeful note. For those who missed it, the 
episode revolved around Lous compulsive 
and unsuccessful habit of gambling on pro 
football games. Of course, Ted wants to be 
in on the action and, after Lou introduces 
him to his bookie, the asinine anchorman 
starts winning small fortunes week after 
week via his illogical system. After a few 
weeks of watching Ted smile super
ciliously, Lou asks to become his partner 
and. by the end of the regular season, the 
two have won more than $2000 together.
The last scene takes place in Marys 
apartment. The whole cast has gathered 
together around her TV set to watch the 
Super Bowl. Having not bet on the game, 
Ted is calm. Lou is not. Taking him aside, 
Mary asks about his nervousness and he 
reveals that he has, without Teds per
mission, bet all of the System's winnings 
on PITTSBURGH. WHO ARE TRAIL
ING IN THE LAST TWO MINUTES OF 
THE FOURTH QUARTER  Mary, to her 
credit, starts rooting for Pittsburgh, but she 
is too late. Hie Steelers lose, and Lou is 
left to tell Ted the bad news, which he 
takes very badly, retreating to the terrace 
to let snow accumulate on his sagging 
shoulders. Alter a commercial, we rejoin 
the crowd, still huddled around the setAbominable Snowman. Mary notices him 
and finally decides that she will not sit and 
watch a grown man do this to himself; so 
she gets up and draws the curtain, obscur
ing Ted.
During the credits, CBS cuts into the 
theme song for an apology. Mary is now 
speaking only to Pittsburgh and she re
minds us that the preceding was a totally 
ficticious story, wishes us luck and adds 
that, if the Steelers should lose, we should 
remember that we heard it first on The 
Mary Tyler Moore Show.
The boys in Phi Lams TV room are un
impressed. One resident threatens to put 
his foot through the tube, another threat
ens to break the skull of the first should 
any harm come to the magic tube which 
will give us two-dimensional access to 
Super Bowl IX. Suddenly, everyone is pre
tending that theyre Joe Greene, threaten
ing to seriously maim anyone who makes 
good on his threat. Funny, six hours be
fore, all had been serious students at a 
major university.
The crowd dissipates throughout Bob 
Newhart, leaving only a small group (in
cluding one TARTAN TV critic) who de
cide to tough it out in front of the tube 
until 1:20 am in order to see the Marx 
Brothers in Room Sen'ice.
Feeling the effects of a long, overmdulgent Saturday night, most of the 
house doesn't get to the TV room until 
about 2 on Sunday afternoon. Beer and 
excitement fill stomachs and the room, re
spectively. During the pre-game show, Joe
Illustration by Kitty Fischei
experts to predict a Steeler victory, offer
ing a generous ten-point spread. He receives 
scattered applause for this act of support. 
A non-viewer opens the door a crack, sticks 
his- head in and asks if anything else is on. 
Unamused, someone sitting by the door 
slams it shut, nearly beheading the in
truder.
We try to squeeze a whole Sunday in 
during half time. People are taking show
ers, eating meals, reading books and writing 
letters. Some, taking their cue from the ad
opposite TV Guides roster sheet for the 
game, drink Scotch, preparing for the cele
bration to come. Everyone is back in their 
seat by the time the Steelers kick off to 
start the third quarter. The Steelers lead, 2 
to 0, on a safety. Eat lead, Mary!
By the time the fourth quarter starts, 
we have a 9-0 lead and the guys at Pi Lam 
are starting to sense victory. Though the 
boys in the NBC booth have a professional 
duty to wait until the two-minute warning 
before announcing a victor, the Super Bowl 
isbeginning to look like a TV show about 
the first Steeler championship. Franco has 
broken Larry Csonkas one-year-old rush
ing record, while Minnesota has yet to get 
their twenty-fifth yard rushing. Everyone 
becomes immersed in the perfume of being 
Numero Uno when, suddenly, a Walden 
punt is blocked and recovered in the end 
zone by a Viking. Suddenly, its a 9-6 
game. The point-after-attempt fails, but, as 
if programmed to do so, no one in the 
room is saying anything. Another non
viewer stops in and, hearing of the Viking 
touchdown, cheers loudly. No one has 
spoken to him since.
The Steelers score another touchdown 
late in the quarter and it can finally be 
screamed: We are Number One! Everyone 
is moved by a sense of joy so profound 
that no one knows what to do with it. A 
sideline cameraman gets a close-up of a 
smiling Franco Harris alternating between 
thumbs-up and index finger-up. The ges
ture, the glee and the grin are all contag
ious and we all start screaming, giving each 
other hugs and assorted handshakes. A 
young woman who has given up all claims 
to modesty by watching the game with us 
smiles as her boys live it up. The game 
ends. Mary was wrong, Joe was right.
Curt Gowdy, A1 DeRogatis and Don 
Meredith are finally freed to use some 
superlatives that they have been saving and 
their invasion of dictionary vocabulary is 
so thorough that it would embarrass even
 continued on page 19
EUROPE 
BOUND 
IN 15?
wouldn't you rather come with u?
Laat rur ovar 200,000 students mwrtd In Burop*. And .the 
travelwia* flaw on chartara bacauaa it costa about HALF! 
Thla jratr a 3 - 6 waak ticket to London la SJU.i 2-3 weaker 597. And lte *767. for over fclx weeks fro Hew 
Tork. (Thats what the airlines say now. Last year there 
were two unforcast Increases!)
Hot only do you fly with us at half, but you can Juat about
have your choice of dates for4, 5, o, 7, 8, 9, 10 week duration during the summer. And all you have to do to qualify Is reserve your seat now by sending $100. deposit, pluj $10. 
registration fee. Under recently new U. S. Government reg
ulations we must submit all flight participants names and 
sixty days before each flight. If you take the August 19 flight to London for example, deposit re
serves your seat and April 15 you send the $199. balance.
Just one price for all flights whether yoir pick a weekend
departure ($15. extra on the regular fare airlines) or peak 
season surcharge date.
So send for our complete r.chedule, or to be sure of your reservation now, mail your deposit for one of our j to 5 weekly departure from June through ;jeptember. Just specify the week 
you want to travel and for how lon. You will receive your 
xact date confirm.ition and receipt by return mail. All our 
fliehts are via fully rertificateo, II. 3. Government r.tamiand 
jet. and all flr^t claus service. Krorn London there are many 
student flights to all i>artj of the Continent, frequent de
partures and many at 2/> off the regular faro.
full payment 
June 21 - Aug
mehrkuwy IP -Hwfwnw wsfyggwngfwpslw
*> HfTH AVINUt 
NCW YONH V*K *00 
00 - 223 - 5309 (TOLL FRIE)
Charter flying is the biggest bargain
in air travel today

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-January 21, 1975Page 19
A Woman of Heart and Mind
by Quiff
Joni Mitchell is brilliant. She has main
tained a special creative level that no other 
female performer has even begun to match. 
^Joni keeps plugging away while other 
women artists strive for a point of stardom 
that they always fall short of, after a small 
amount ot success.
Using a varied format of rich folk music 
that has evolved into a jazzy, soft-pop 
sound, Joni Mitchell has built up a tremen
dous following that consists of all us sen
timental coed crazies. Keeping far from the 
) public eye and releasing only a bare min
imum of recorded material over the years, 
Joni has created a gen-u-ine mystique. Its 
this individualistic style that has kept Joni 
Mitchell ahead of the pack, even when the 
critics werent listening. All the pressures 
of the road combined with financial and 
public responsibilities just laid to waste the 
likes of Laura Nyro, Joan Baez, and most 
iecently, Bette Midler.
After many trying years in the music 
business, Joni Mitchell has proven that she 
has more than what it takes to make ii 
through the impossible world of glitter and 
grime. In fact 1974 turned out to be a 
spectacular year for Joni, all the way 
around. Her release of the highly acclaimed
Court and Spark album, followed by an 
incredible national concert had the critics 
beside themselves. If youre surprised to 
hear that Joni Mitchell had played on tour 
last year, dont be. Sandwiched in between 
the super tours of Dylan, Clapton and 
Elton John, its not surprising that the Joni 
Mitchell tour received so little publicity.
Well, Joni Mitchell didn't sit back on 
her laurels after all of those accomplish
ments. So because of someones insight we 
have Miles of Aisles or Joni Mitchell live 
in concert, if you prefer not to be so for
mal. The problem that this double record 
presents is: what makes this live perform
ance record different from all those others,. 
which turn out to be nothing more than a 
greatest hits recording with some applause
thrown in? The answer to this loaded 
question is really obvious. Joni Mitchell is 
the kind of performer who puts her whole 
personality into her stage presence. What 
the listener is presented with is Joni 
Mitchell laughing, speaking spontaneously 
and in general, just adding a lot of warmth 
to some wonderful songs.
Going one sjep further, Joni adds a sec
ond worthwhile dimension to this new al
bum. This added plus is labeled Tom Scott 
and the L.A. Express. The Express is the 
backup band for Joni and their sound is 
perfect for her music. Being lively but al
ways polite, Tom Scott and his band add a 
controlled jazz touch and a light-rock 
framework. Scott, who has always been a 
productive session man from the West 
coast, plays some of the smoothest saxo
phones and flutes that can be found. His 
solos come in soft and clear between Jonis 
cheruses. Scott has an unbelievable knack 
for fitting in with Jonis winging vocals. 
Max Bennett and John Guerin provide the 
soulful strut on bass and drums. Tf my
memory serves me well, both of these 
musicians can be found on Frank (jazz) 
Zappas Hot Rats album as wel! as some 
ancient wax by pop idol David Cassidy (in 
other-words, theyve been around). Larry 
Nash eases out the most tender piano part 
that are available for listening pleasure. 1 
seem to recall some session work that he 
once did for saxophonist Eddie Harris. 
Guitarist Robben Ford rounds our the 
band. His rhythm guitar is just what the 
Chelsea doctor ordeied.
(Meanwhile, back at the album) Joni 
Mitchell remains constantly free through
out the entire Miles of Aisles yet her com
munication with the band and the audience 
is almost beyond belief. After the very first 
listen, I was amazed that it took Joni
v
Mitchell so long to record a live record.
Unlike the usual recorded concert, this 
disc needs no warm up or formal intro
duction. The very first cut grabs the ear 
with all the fury that is at all possible. Song 
one is You Turn Me On Im A Radio" 
from the For the Roses album. Whereas the 
original version sort of bounced into the 
hearts ot us all, this rendition just kind ot 
rolls in. By slowing the beat down, Joni is 
able to take full advantage of the clever 
lines she has penned. Utilizing her amazing 
voice, Joni creates the, end to end all ends. 
In a style not unlike scat singing. Joni 
screeches (enchantingly, of course) with 
Robben Ford duplicating her singing with 
his. guitar. Its a little wild for the average 
ear, but I love it.
Immediately following is a knock-down 
version of Big Yellow Taxi." The L.A. 
Express really move into high gear on this. 
Joni has her big acoustic chugging out the 
rhythm while Robben plays some sweet 
lead guitar. Also to be found on this same 
side is a super funky shot of Woodstock." 
The Express are smokin and Joni is wail
ing. Crosby, Stills and Nash better take one 
step backward.
Many of the remaining cuts offer much 
of the same rewards. A lot of the old Joni 
favorites are cranked up with new spicier 
arrangements. There's a lot of power be
hind the live version of the Circle Game. 
Theres a magical effect when the whole 
audience joins Joni on the chorus. Other 
gems include Carey and Both Sides 
Now. Two new songs are launched here. 
Joni takes time out to add a few words 
about the new numbers: obviously theyre 
something special. Cold Blue Steel & Sweet 
Fire is done so marvelously that I only 
add that you should hear it for yourself.
In retrospect. Id say that Joni Mitchell 
has reached an important milestone in her 
career. She has withstood some major 
musical changes with the utmost success. 
She can look behind herself with a great 
sigh of relief, and ahead with a great deal 
to look forward to.
Most of all, her fans withstood the tran
sitions that brought her into this current, 
broader vocal style. Her voice (now strong
er than ever), combined with her high 
position on the national charts, proves this 
beyond a shadow of a doubt. So, in con
clusion to this review of Joni Mitchell's 
Miles of Aisles, let me say that if you 
happen to be driving into the nearest 
record store with a darkhorse over you, 
pick up Miles of Aisles, its bound to snow 
you. ?
Have a medical problem but 
no money to pay for help?
PEER HELP 
administers the Student Senate 
Health Fund 
Baker Hall 150A or 621-2600
LITRONIX: 
Calculators You 
Can Depend On
ONE YEAR UNCONDITIONAL 
GUARANTEE ON ALL CALCULATORS
List Price - $29 95
HtronixnO!Cy\lQIATOR
^aMEMORY
List Price - $34 95
WITH PRCNT
List Price - $49.95.
sfe^SCIEnTIFIC
w
List Price - $59.95
/ e 6 A ~-
List Price $69 95
LITRONIX CALCULATORS CAN BE PURCHASED AT 
Kaufmann's, Joseph Horne Co., G. C Murphy Co., J. 
C. Penney. W T Grant, American Hardware, Mon 
tgomery Ward & Co.. The Office Machine, and most of 
your favorite book stationary and department stores
cvmt
compiled by Mark Evan Chimsky
Vive le Paix! The New American Move
ment will sponsor a rally to demand that 
the United States honor the Paris Peace 
Agreement on this second anniversary of 
the treaty signing. Jane Fonda's new film. 
Introduction to the Enemy is scheduled 
among the proceedings. Hope springs eter
nal. Come the the University of Pitts
burghs Graduate School of Public Health 
(Corner of 5th Ave. and De Soto St.) on 
Wednesday, January 22 at 8:00 pm. Do
nation SI.
Alvin Aileys style is the only
direction for dance," says the renowned 
Russian choreographer. Leonide Massine 
:md he certainly knows what lies talking 
jbout. There's a fluidity and power to 
Aileys productions which Pittsburgh aud
iences cheered last year. Tickets lor thiYWCA benefit performance may be obtaired from all YWCA centers. Grab a seat 
while they're still available, February 5 a 
8:30 pm. Mr. Ailey's company graces the 
Heinz Hall stage on Februaiy 5 at 8:30 pn
That mad cavalier of rural America. Ton 
Sawver will be presented by the McKees 
port Little Theatre Juniors on January 17 
18. 24. 25 at 7:30 pm and January 19 j 
2:30 pm at the McKeesport Little Jheatr 
(corner of Coursin and Bailey). 673-1!00 i 
the number to call tor reservations. Now 
how about whitewashing a fence?
The heraldic look" is Allan D'Arcangelo -
modern art motif. His woik is being exhib 
ited at the Kingpitcher Gallery now 
through February 1.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20-THE TART AN-January 21.1975
continued from page J8
Cosell. In the locker room, Bradshaw 
claims that the Victory proves his intel
ligence; Holmes shows off his ridiculous, 
but cute, arrowhead; White looks healthy; 
and Blier smiles a lot. The Steelers are 
remarkably calm. Contrastingly, Pitts
burghers have taken leave of their TV sets 
and their senses. The natives get restless. 
Many go downtown to riot and destroy, 
some simply take a step outside their 
homes and explode a firecracker. A group 
of us at Pi Lam go out for some dinner, 
honk the horn a lot on the way to the 
restaurant and, as a special Super Bowl 
victory allowance, order beer with the 
meal. Service is slow as busboys, dishwash
ers, waiters and waitresses use the Win as 
an excuse to goose each other over and 
over. Theres no telling where the hand 
that serves you your meal may have been 
several moments before.
After an afternoon of screaming at the
television, this converted Jets fan gets phil
osophical. Pittsburgh has been good to me. 
They gave me a World Series victory in 71 
when I was a Freshman. (Being a devout 
Yankees fan since conception, I was begin
ning to miss them.) Now, here it was 1975 
and the Steel City was sending me off with 
its First Super Bowl. I feel good for Art 
Rooney, for Chuck Noll, for the team, for
the residents of the city. I feel privileged to 
be a part of it. At least, to have seen it on 
WIIC-TV, Pittsburgh.
On Monday afternoon, a small group 
re-convenes in the TV room to watch an 
estimated 100,000 Pittsburghers stand in 
freezing weather and watch their TV 
heroes speed by in closed cars.
UNIVERSITY ORATORY OF 
THE HOLY SPIRIT PARISH
CMU CAMPUS
SATURDAY MASS...................................................7:00 P.M.  Tech House
SUNDAY MASS...........................10:30 A.M.  Science Hall (Rm. 7500)
WEEKDAY MASSES ........................................................................Tech House
(M, T, W  10:00 P.M.) (Th, F  5:00 P.M.) (T. Th.  8:00 A.M.)
Fr. Philip Walsh (621-2911). Fr. Bob English (681-3181)
The Community House is the Tech House 5125 Margaret Morrison
WINGING IT
by Dolores M. Foster
Charlie Byrd is a tunky old man who 
happens to play the guitar like he invented 
it. Fie and his trio play their instruments 
with an intensity that is shown in their 
faces., even in concert.
People say that the best things in life are 
free but they often dont really mean it. 
Fridays concert was a welcome change 
from the ususal insincerity. It started right 
on time with Mr. Byrd immediately getting 
down to business without flourish or fan
fare. The concert itself was beautiful, with 
a variety of songs for every mood. The 
soothing strains of the guitar were often 
interrupted by powerful surges of energy 
and vitality intermixed with a dominant
bass guitar and drums. The two guitars 
worked well together, espically since the 
bass guitarist is Charlie Byrds brother. The 
drums were impressive during the Duke 
Ellington numbers.
The program was introduced by two 
Brazilian tunes. A Little Bird showed 
why Charlie Byrd is the celebrated guitarist 
that he is. Quiet Nights had a beautiful 
back-up that included bass guitar and 
drums. The Trio played a pair of Duke 
Ellington numbers that the Duke would 
have Loved Madly had he heard it. Just 
Squeeze me, Dont Tease Me and Dont 
Mean A Thing If It Aint Got Swing were 
delightful and certainly had Swing. Nor
wegian Wood was hardly recognizable. It 
was cleverly disguised with haunting, lyr
ical introductions and improvised, out-ofthis-world melodies, with only spots of the 
main melody dispersed throughout. That 
piece was definitely expanded to its max
imum. In the middle of the number Byrd 
stopped playing, the drums stopped play-, 
ing, and the bass guitar played a solo, then 
the drums played a solo and together the 
Trio ended the song. Charlie Byrd got into 
some classical music, without even giving 
us a hint that it was Bach. The piece was so 
soft, so quiet and so romantic that it made 
you want to sigh, hold hands with your 
sweetheart, and throw him (or her) a kiss. 
Vivaldis Adante was lovely and pleasing 
to listen to. You could almost forget that 
you were in the Skibo Ballroom. Never 
have you heard the Battle Hymn of the
Republic played like it was played Friday 
night. It was hardly the battle song it was 
meant to be, the tune was jazzed up by 
funky improvisation.
After intermission Charlie Byrd and his 
Trio got into some down home bluegrass 
music like Salty Dog and Travelin 
Man. A beautiful guitar rendition of 
Youve Got A Friend was played. It was 
one of the more exciting and powerful 
songs included in the concert. I had the 
pleasure of being exposed to the good 
sounds of Charlie Parker and Charlie 
Christian. Though both have the same first 
name, the styles are different; one is jazz 
and one is classical. Both were listening 
experiences. Bet you thought Charlie Byrd 
couldnt sing? Well, he did two blues numand got down. Them There Eyes 
a racy (in more ways than one) numthat thrilled the audience. Empty Bed 
is had a wicked introduction that I 
loved. Tell me you couldnt get into 
; like must be getting rusty/sleeping 
the way I do? The very last 
they did was a charming but powerful 
that was a fitting ending to a pleasurevening.
f you were one of the poor unforites that missed this classical guitar exence, beg, borrow, steal or even buy 
Charlie Byrd Trios new album Byrd By
I
In the time it takes 
to drive your friend home, you 
could save his life.
If your friends been 
drinking too much, he shouldnt 
be driving.
The automobile crash is 
the number one cause of death 
of people your age. And the 
ironic thing is that the drunk 
drivers responsible for killing 
young people are most often 
other young people.
Take ten minutes. Or 
twenty. Or an hour. Drive your 
friend home. Thats all. If you 
cant do that, call a cab. Or let 
him sleep on your couch.
Were not asking you to 
be a doctor or a cop. Just a friend.
IF YOU LIT A FRIEND DRIVE DRUNK, 
YOURE NO FRIEND.
fll
US DEPARTMENT Of TRANSPORTATION 
NATIONAL HIGHW AY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-January 21, 1975-Page 21
Tartans Play Well But Drop Two
by RSer Geddes
CarnegiQ-Mellon dropped their fifth 
game of the season last Wednesday, 64-57, 
to the rapidly improving Bethany Bisons at 
Skibo Gym. Bethany came out quickly 
with their offensive guns and mounted as 
much as a 12 point lead in the first half 
primarily because of the sure shooting of 
freshman forward Greg Dulkowski who 
had 12 points in the first half. CMU fought 
back this time and with Paul Hamerlys 11 
points cut Bethanys halftime lead to 
35-26.
At 9:40 in the second half, a basket by 
Dennis Derringer cut the deficit to four 
points at 49-45, but thats as close as the 
Tartans could get. Hamerly had another 11 
points in the second half while Derringer 
had 10 only to fall short by seven points. 
Up by six points with five minutes left in 
the game, Bethany put on a near perfect 
stall to end the Tartan hopes. Hamerly 
ended with his best scoring output of the 
season, 22 points.
Despite only winning one game thus far, 
the Tartans have vastly improved. After 
losing miserably in their first three games 
of the season, the team has begun to take 
shape in their last three conference games. 
In those three games, Paul Hamerly has led 
the Tartans with 16.3 points a game and 
11.0 rebounds. Derringer has averaged 13.3 
in that span while Dane Wukich shot 13.0 
per game. Against Bethany the Tartans 
sh6t 41% from the floor, their best game of 
the season and well above their 31% aver
age. They also sank 11 of 12 free throws.
On the boards, Bethany dominated lead
ing CMU in rebounds 41-30. Tag Wilson, 
second team All-PAC last season, had 18 
points and grabbed 9 rebounds, playing
Chambers battles for the ba(i
very tough for a 6-3 forward. As of late, 
however, the Tartan rebounding has still 
not been up to par.
Bethany proved to be a tough foe but 
the game was still within reach for ths 
Tartans. Several times the Tartans turned 
over the ball at key points in the game
 and Lines up a Jump Shot
when they were rapidly catching the 
Bisons. Playing as well as they did against 
Case Western and John Carroll would have 
given them a win over Bethany. The ab
sence of Pat Ward also hurt the Tartan 
chances.
Their next conference game is this 
Wednesday night at Thiel College. Thiel, 
0-7 at last report, was hit heavily by grad
uation last year and has been struggling to 
gain respectability. The 1975 Tartans have 
a good chance to win the first away game 
for CMU in five years.
CMU
FGFTFT ATOT
HAMERLY102222
DERRINGER52212
WUKICH2347
KLEIN1224
CHAMBERS4z210
D'ANGELO1002
JASON0000
BOYKINS0000
23 11 
BETHANY
1257
FGFTFT ATOT
ALI62414
DULKOWSKI70014
WILSON82218
GUNDLING1022
LESNETT1022
HAVS102
THOMPSON2569
MILLER1123
DEBONE0000
27101864
6 Games Hoop Summary'
by Jerry Woods
CarnegieMellon travelled to Beaver 
Falls Geneva College Saturday night only 
to lose their sixth game of the season, 
69-52.
Geneva had a very good warm-up; when 
the game started, they burst out with five 
field goals to Carnegie-Mellons one within
Geneva kept the Tartans in the game with 
eight fouls, to only three by the Tartans.
The second half began with a shooting 
battle, CMU matching every Geneva 
basket. But slowly and surely, Geneva 
pulled ahead. With 8:00 left, the score was 
53-40, and Geneva began fast-breaking the 
Tartans defense to death. However, 
whenever the Tartan guards, Pat Ward,
sports
the first five minutes. CMLPs offense had 
trouble getting on track as Geneva took an 
early lead. Geneva started with their fast, 
running players; only 6-9 center Clyde 
Soule towered over the Tartans. However, 
5-4 guard Spencer Johnson tore the 
Tartan defense to shreds, dribbling past 
our forwards for easy lay-ups. Halfway 
through the first half, Geneva started re
placing with their big guns6-2 guard 
Steve Jugan and 6-6 forward John Kelly. 
Within a couple of minutes, it seemed that 
Geneva had put the game out of Tartan 
reach, 26-12. But with a couple of nice 
turnovers by Geneva, and a well executed 
offense by the Tartans, at half the lead was 
chopped to six, 32-26.
The Tartan first half had a very slow 
start, the ball being turned over ten times 
to Genevas three. CMLPs turnovers were 
mainly travelling calls as Paul Hamerly and 
Greg Chambers attempted shots. The 
shooting of the Tartans had much to be 
desired also, only 12 for 28 attempts.
Chuck DAngelo, or Dave Wukich, got the 
ball and slowed the game down, the 
Tartans were assured two points. With only 
a couple of minutes left, Coach Rudy 
Yaksich replaced his starters; the replace
ments faring well against the Geneva big 
men. The game ended, 69-52, with 
Genevas tenth win of the season.
Dave Wukich led CMU scorers with 14 
points, followed by Paul Hamerly with 10 
and Greg Chambers with 9. Geneva had
continued on page 21
PAC STANDINGS*
(Conference Games
Bethany 3 0
Allegheny 3 0
John Carroll 2 1
Hiram 2 1
CMU 1 2
Case Western 1 2
W & J 0 3
Thiel 0 3
* Includes games of Saturday night
ct Cfty,
PLAYERGFGFAPCTFTFTAPCTRBSAVGPTSAVGPF
Hamerly62877.361122.5049ai6711.118
Derringer62678.331317.76376.16510.812
Chambers62171.301421.67315.1569.322
Wukich61948.401318.72244.051as10
DAngelo61545.331520.75152.5457.518
Klein6822.3679.78132.123as11
Ward4717.4114.25141515a711
Bonn4516.3147.57102.5142.85
Hotimsky6116.0648.502.361.04
Jason6113.08356081.350.812
Boykins506.0012.50 40l810.26
MaddoxO0 3;\ 0002.0000.000.02
Team6133419.3187138.6327045.035?58.3136
Opponents6203476.4290151.5928948.149682.6127
CMU Architecture Department 
Tuesday, January 21
Sponsored by Campus P'pgram Pi

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22- THE TARTAN-January 21, 1975
Story of human relations*11?? told against 
a background of war and history.
A 20th Century Fox Production starring
GEORGE C. SCOTT
Directed by Franklin J. Schaffner.
"Swaggering. pistol-packing, deeply reli
gious, violently profar.e man whd didnt 
travel with the crowd . . New York Times
Winner of 7 Academy Awards
Distributed non theatrically Dy
Films Incorporated
msm
Starring GEORGE C. SCOTT and CARL MALDEN
JANUARY 25  SKIBO BALLROOM
Showings at 6:30 & 10:00 P.M.
Tickets at the Door
c------Li KAPPA Al PHA
PROFESSOR HERB OLDS
Presents a
LECTURE/DEMONSTRAT iON
On
"DRAWING"
Thursday, January 23
12:30  Wherrett Room
Commentary
TheImportance ofBuggy
Always 
hold matches 
till cold.
su Lcky Scttyi
Although it is only January, prepar
ations for Aprils buggy races have already 
begun. It will be many cold nights of push 
practice, a few Sunday morning freerolls, 
and thousands of dollars before some Hill 5 
pusher finds himself in the fortunate 
position of pushing his buggy over the 
finish line first.
For an upperclassman who has never 
seen the races, and certainly to a freshman, 
the whole thing must seem like a gigantic 
waste of time and money. Not so. There 
are reasons big and small for Sweepstakes, 
but all of them are equally valid.
1. Tradition Carnegie-Mellon, needless 
to say, is not a school of many traditions. 
However. Sweepstakes, which has been 
around for 55 years, must rank as one of 
the oldest. The races have come a long way 
since 1920 when they were known as The 
Derby, and it should be interesting to see 
where they go in the future.
2. Alumni Participation Nothing 
brings more alumni back to this school 
than buggy. This is important to both the 
school and to the participants, since alumni 
are where alumni contributions come 
from. This is a serious point. Both the 
school and the fraternities rely on these 
contributions to supplement their budgets.
3. Spirit and Pride There is nothing 
like a buggy race to instill these two 
emotions in a person. Spirit is sadly lacking
in this school, but buggy is a real spirit 
builder. In addition, there is not a whole 
lot to be proud about at CMU, but anyone 
who had anything to do with his teams 
buggy effort certainly has something to be 
proud about.
4. Good, clean fun I realize that these 
words are somewhat frowned upon in a 
college community (how can something be 
fun if it is good and clean?), but thats 
what buggy is. An athletic competition to 
determine who can push better than who. 
An engineering competition to determine 
who can roll faster than who. A design 
competition to see who can build better 
than who. All of these things are an inte
gral part of buggy, but the most integral 
part of Sweepstakes is the enjoyment that 
all involved derive from it.
Last year, after an accident during free 
roll which caused a driver to be rushed to 
the hospital as a precautionary measure, 
the school threatened to do away with 
buggy races, presumably on the grounds 
that it is unsafe. This is utter nonsense. 
Stringent safety regulations instituted in 
the last three years have made buggy vir
tually injury-free. There has not been a 
serious injury in the entire time Ive been 
at this school, and I dont anticpate any 
injuries this year, aside from the usual 
bumps and bruises. Eliminating the races 
would be as foolish a move as I could
possibly imagine, simply because of the 
adverse reaction that would invariably 
come from students and alumni alike.
It think Im digressing a little from the 
point I set out to make. That point is: 
buggy is a unique and exciting experience 
which is as vital to this school as any other 
facet' of life here at CMU. For those who 
dont belong to a fraternity, there are CIA 
and Fringe. Buggy is for everyone, and 
CMU iust wouldnt be the same without it.
.mstos
Please: help prevent forest fires.
Hockey News
by Dave Girdany
The CMU hockey team gets its season 
back into full gear this weekend with 
games against Indiana on Saturday after
noon at 1:00 at the Civic Arena and on 
Sunday against Penn State at State College. 
Both these games promise to test the fine 
Tartan hockey team.
Presently, the Tartans are tied with Pitt 
for first place in the WPIHA with six 
points, so every league game is a big one
for CMU in its battle for the league cham
pionship.
Leading scorers for CMU so far this 
season are Larry Stuever and Jack Arturo. 
Team scoring statistics will be published in 
next weeks issue. Drive for five.
WPIHA STANDINGS 
WLTpGFGA
Pitt2004172
CMU2004146
Duquesne21042011
St. Vincent12021517
Indiana010016
St. Francis010019
P.S./McKeesport0200 .320

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-January 21. 1975-Page 23
Record Turnout for 
Intramural B-Ball
Mike Pochan
Carnegie-Mellons intramural program 
ontinues to expand to phenomenal 
lights as an all-time record 67 basketball 
teams were entered into competition inolving well over 500 students.
Nine teams were entered in the major 
eague, 37 in the intermediate league, and 
21 in the jag league to compete for the 
espective titles.
Earl J. Birdy, director of intramural athetics, commented, This is the greatest 
asketball turnout in the history of CMU 
ntramurals. The students are showing tre
mendous interest. Our only problem is 
finding room for all of those games.
In other I.M. news, the all-school ballotng for I.M. soccer and volleyball was final
ly tabulated with Coaches All-Starts pro
ducing three MVPs.
In volleyball, Dirk Kalp (All-Stars) and 
Tom Veltri (SAE) tied for MVP. First team 
spikers were Walt Tauche (All-Stars), Dirk 
Kalp (All-Stars), Chung Hou (GSIA) and 
Phil Karlton (Feva). First team setters were 
Bruce Cohen (MBs) and Mike Pochan 
(SAE). The second team consisted of Andy 
Bucholter, Bruce Whiting, Mitch Fried and 
Bobby Culbertson (All-Stars), John Kantra 
and Joe Adams (GSIA), and Tom Veltri and 
Larry Kurzweil (SAE).
Soccer was dominated by Coaches AllStars as A1 Young and Dan Dabby tied for 
MVP. First team fullbacks were A1 Koblin
and A1 Young (All-Stars), seconded by 
Bruce Cohan (Powderkegs) and Willy Lom
bardo  (SAE). First team forwards were 
Dabby and Murray Leety (All-Stars), and 
Sony (TTT). Second team forwards were 
Jim Lavin (All-Stars), Pat Wallace (SAE) 
and Steve King (Powderkegs). John 
Kwiecinski (SAE) took first team goalie 
backed up by Magruder (TTT).
Lacrosse 
Team to 
Organize
Yes, sports fans, Carnegie-Mellon does 
have a lacrosse team. For anyone interested 
in playing this fast, exciting game, there 
will be a meeting Wednesday night in 
Skibo. Leave your name at the Information 
desk and you will be contacted. Home 
games will be played on the Tartan football 
field, and equipment will be provided by 
the CMU Lacrosse Club.
sports
This Week in Sports:
Basketball
Jan. 22 Thiel Away, 8:00 pm 
Jan. 25 Hiram Away, 8:00 pm
Hockey
Jan. 25 Indiana Civic Arena, 1:00 pm 
Jan. 26 Penn State (Main Campus),
State College 7:00 PM
/
Wrestling
Jan. 25 W&J, Pitt B, MacMurray College 
at home, 1:00 pm
Swimming
Jan. 25 W&J at home, 2:00 pm
Editors Note
The CMU Hockey team defeated 
St. Francis by a score of 120 on Sun
day. Jack Arturo pulled off a hattrick 
for the Tartans. Details next week.
Tartans
continued from page 21
three players in double figures, Spencer 
Johnson, Clyde Soule, and Steve Jugan, 
with 14,10, and 14 respectively.
Geneva did not shoot much better than 
the Tartans, 43.4% to 37.3%; and 37.5% to 
57.1% for the Tartans from the foul line. 
However, Geneva ran the ball game, throw
ing the Tartan defense off several times. In 
the same respect, whenever the Tartans 
slowed the game down, they kept Geneva 
off balance.
The boards were dominated by Geneva, 
48-38, with Clyde Soule pulling down 13 
rebounds himself.
CMU
FGFTFT ATOT
HAMERLY50210
DERRINGER3006
WUKICH62214CHAMBERS4129
WARD1012
KLEIN2004
JASON0444
BONN1133
D'ANGELO0000
HOTEMSKY0000
BOYKINS0000
2281452
GENEVA
FGFTFT ATOT
JOHNSON70014
THORSEN3127
HARDY3127
WASHINGTON4008
SOULE50210
SHAKESPEARE1002
JUGAN70014
KELLY3127------
333869
1975 GRADUATES:
C-MU 1975 Degree Candidates have 
a FINAL CHANCE to have portraits 
shot for Thistle '75
At this time you can also buy a yearbook; pay balance on 
subscription. 
Ask questions - submit suggestions, comments
Wednesday, January 22 9 A.M. - 9 P.M.
Skibo 46
No sitting fee. No appointment needed: this is the last time. Call 683-0222 
on any problems.

---------------------------------------------------

70 LONG COATSNOW s49.95
600 PR. BLUE DENIMS
300 SWEATERSN0WWI5
1REG. ; I 
$19tom I
1000 SHIRTS
3000 PANTS & JEANS  500 KNIT SHIRTS 
100 JACKETS and MUCH MORE AT
SIMILAR GREAT SAVINGS
"SEEING IS BELIEVING"
bpotlwkood
PHONE 
621- 
1136
212 OAKLAND AVE. (S
OFF FORBFS AVE. 
UNIV. OFPGH.
WRCT
IS
GIVING
AWAY
RECORDS
Hundreds oi Albums For Hundreds of Hours 
Every Evening from 7 to 3/88.3 on your FM dial 
If you don't listen, You can't win . . .
Page 24-THE TARTAN-January 21, 1975
