TARTAN
_______________ February 8, 1977 Volume 77, Number 16 CarnegieMellon University Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213_______________
SUPA Evaluated by Middle States Team
%y Eric Petersen
Last November an evaluation team re
presenting the Commission on Higher Edu
cation of the Middle States Association 
visited Carnegie-Mellon to appraise certain 
aspects of the school, most notably the 
School of Urban and Public Affairs (SUPA) 
and the universitys planning. In general, 
^^he team was pleased with the students, 
faculty, and administration of CMU, but 
pointed out a few serious problems pre
sent.
Before the Middle States Association 
sends a team to a school, it requests a com
prehensive self-study from the institution. 
This helps the school gain insight into its 
own problems and gives the evaluation 
^ wteam an idea as to what the college believes 
are its own problems. The team com
mented upon its arrival that this document 
was inadequate and that the material pre
sented was not satisfactory. Furthermore, 
the committee stated in its final report 
that outside of the administration and the
faculty and students of SUPA, very few 
members of the campus community were 
prepared for, or even aware of the Middle 
States visit. Despite the lack of preparation 
on the part of the university, which im
posed upon the work of the team, the 
report acknowledged the fact that once 
they arrived on campus, the team members 
received real cooperation from all parties 
involved with the research.
SUPA
The School of Urban and Public Affairs 
states as its goal to be an education in pub
lic affairs with a heavy emphasis on quanti
tative analysis, with student work loads 
equivalent to those prevailing in the finest 
graduate schools of its type in the country. 
It goes on to express the desire to be the 
premier public policy and public manage
ment school in the world. SUPA, accor
ding to the team, is very successful in the 
first of these goals, although the second is 
more or less an untimely blowing of the 
schools own horn.
continued on page 7Otto Davis, Dean of SUPA
$50 Food Contract Hike Expected
by Jeffrey Freed
At their January 25 meeting, the Aux
iliary Services Committee .discussed, hous
ing food service, and Centrex. A $50 in
crease in food contract was recommended 
~*by the committee, and Bill Dillon, Director 
of Auxiliary Services, stated that the Cen
trex issue was 99.5 resolved in favor of 
installing the system.
Auxiliary Services plans an increase in 
housing rates averaging $75 per student 
for 1977-1978. The additional money is 
needed for many reasons. One is to off
set the rising cost of utilities, salaries, and 
*4 equipment. Auxiliary Services starting next 
year will pay the university 2% of its gross 
income. This year, $400,000 was budgeted
for housing improvements, and in 1977-78, 
this expenditure will be equaled. Thus, at 
current contract rates, housing has been 
operating at a deficit. The rate increase 
aims to correct this.
A decrease in quad rates was recom
mended, to compensate for the inconve
nience of living with four people. Current
ly, quads are the least popular dormitory 
accomodation.
Of the 17 families residing at Dougherty 
House, five want to remain at least two 
more years there. These families, if allowed 
to remain, will take up space needed by un
married students. A decision will later be 
made regarding the eviction of these fami
lies.
A $75 increase in food contract prices 
was discussed, then rejected in favor of a
$50 contract price increase with a corres
ponding 6% increase in cash prices. The 
effectiveness of the latter proposal in bal
ancing the budget will be discussed at the 
Committees next meeting.
Cert Discusses CMU Quality
by Mary Ann Lawton
In his January 26 address to the faculty, 
President Cyert gave his attention to the 
quality of education at Carnegie-Mellon 
University and stressed the need for the 
University to be a leader and to produce 
leaders in their respective fields.
President Cyert feels that, in general, 
the quality of teaching at CMU is better 
now than it was a few years ago. Through 
discussions with students, who he feels
-.one of the best measurements of 
teaching quality that we have .... although 
not the only one, President Cyert has con
cluded that in most of the departments, 
...students are enthusiastic about the 
teaching and the education they are 
receiving. Physics and all of the depart
ments in CIT stood out as the best rated 
departments.
President Cyert would like to see the 
essentially traditional methods of teaching 
continued on page F>
Hiss Speaks on McCarthyism
by Joan Konkle
Alger Hiss spoke to a crowded audience 
about the McCarthy era and his experi
ences as a victim of it on January 26 in the 
Skibo Ballroom.
Hiss began his talk by saying that the 
McCarthy era is  a misnomer. Joe Mc
Carthy was a Johnny-come-lately. He by 
no means began the McCarthy era and his 
disappearance as a wasted, drunken man 
from the scene did not mean an end to 
McCarthyism. Nonetheless, he continued, 
since he was a rather ugly figure in 
Americas history it is appropriate that 
an ugly name be given to an ugly period. 
He went on to discuss the personal power 
McCarthy possessed. Honest public 
figures like Republican Senator Robert 
Taft, a man of great integrity and almost 
squeamish tact and delicacy found it 
politically necessary to accept and support 
McCarthy. Hiss described how through 
McCarthys efforts three brilliant young 
diplomats were hounded out of the State 
Department. When a woman friend pro
tested McCarthys action, he replied, Oh 
honey, dont worry. Its only politics, 
nothing personal.
Still another example Hiss gave of 
McCarthys political strength was that 
although he had called General George 
Marshall a traitor to his country, Mar
shalls former protegee Dwight Eisenhower 
during his presidential campaign felt he 
had to support McCarthy to ensure his own 
political survival.
Like all demagogues, Hiss said, McCarthy 
was extremely difficult to deal with 
because to oppose McCarthy might 
cause all sorts of storms; to accept his 
assurances was dangerous because he was 
not very trustworthy. While he was in 
power there were those who didnt wish 
to brook his displeasure and even had to 
seek his political favor, and there were 
others who didnt choose to speak about 
someone whom they considered a scound
rel.
Hiss believes McCarthys downfall came 
about for two reasons. The first was that 
people stopped listening to him once he 
was finally held up to ridicule. One of the 
first and most dramatic occasions this 
happened was when a lawyer named Welch, 
the employer of young lawyer subpoenaed 
by McCarthy, sharply challenged Mc
Carthy on television for picking on his
assistant. When Welch said, Have you no 
compassion, no decency, Senator, to 
attack this blameless young man in such a 
way suddenly without warning people 
caught on.
The other major cause of McCarthys 
fall was what Hiss termed a contagion of 
courage. The names of the witnesses sub
poenaed by both McCarthys Senate and 
the House Un-American Activities Com
mittee were released a few days in advance 
to strike terror into them so theyd turn 
into jelly after those few days of worrying.
However, after a man named Frank 
Wilkinson began to get the witnesses 
together, this made them realize they 
weren't alone, the only ones singled out. 
Consequently, they were less frightened 
and so were no longer easily intimadated.
People who were blacklisted and other
wise had their lives and careers perman
ently damaged during the McCarthy era 
were usually helpless against the charges 
against them. Hiss said that even lawyers 
felt unable to clear themselves. They 
believed that they couldnt fight back 
because the very publicity caused when 
a charge had been brought against them 
was more hurtful than just hoping people
continued on page 8
Alger Hiss,"Joe McCarthy was an ugly man."
INSIDE: STOCK MARKET 
TRENDS 
PAGE 4, WEEK IN REVIEW

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN
Who Shall Serve?
With the shock waves from this countrys last war not 
completely settled, it appears that we are already forgetting 
some of the most important lessons which should be remem
bered from the Vietnam debacle. The volunteer army, 
originally conceived as a solution to one of the most hated 
aspects of the Vietnam era, the Draft, has itself recently 
encountered considerable criticism of both its effectiveness 
and fairness. Two weeks ago, the New York Times editori
alized about the Volunteer Army under the headline, Worse 
Than the Draft?.
The attack against the volunteer army is based on two 
points. First, there is the argument that it is not providing 
enough men. With much hand waving, critics claim that in 
spite of high unemployment and what they feel is extra
ordinarily good pay, there is a shortage of men enlisting. 
The second argument appeals to our sense of fairplay. Fears 
are raised that the volunteer army "may eventually be 
composed of low socio-economic levels of minority groups. 
Fortunately, the critics realize that a Draft system is 
intolerable and as a solution they instead propose some form 
of required universal service, which we believe is also intoler
able. They try and sweeten things by suggesting that the 
service could be either civilian or military, but the whole 
concept remains unpalatable.
Actually, this proposed solution is worse than the prob
lem. The universal service scheme, calling for a years service 
from everyone between the ages of 18 and 24 places an 
unacceptable burden on that age group, which is already 
suffering from considerably higher unemployment than 
the national average. Advocates claim that universal service 
will help alleviate the unemployment problem. While it is 
true that such a system would keep young people off the 
streets, we have to wonder if those serving would be any 
more employable once they got out, or just a year older.
It is doubtful that the universal service would actually 
provide for an effective military. It would be wasteful to 
train personnel for only one years service. The high rjte 
of turnover which would probably result could undermine 
the effectiveness of the armed forces.
Critics of the volunteer army ignore some important 
aspects of the military, particularly those which make ser
vice so undesirable. The purpose of the military is to 
maintain a force of trained murderers, an occupation most 
people dont find very appealing. Making things worse is the 
situation where those in the service are forced to give up 
personal freedom and dignity.
Given the working conditions, the pay doesnt appear to 
be that great. The Times editorial points out that the wage 
for the second lowest grade in the Army is $ 7,300 and they 
imply that this is luxurious in comparison with the minimum 
wage, which provides about $4,800 a year. This comparison 
is ludicrous. The military is simply failing to remain compe
titive.
Another good example of poor salaries for the military 
comes from those Defense Department agencies which inter
view on campus. Stories are well known among seniors who 
are job hunting, or engineers who have received offers of 
$15,000 to $16,000 a year from private firms, and ridiculous 
offers of $11,000 to $12,000 from Defense agencies. 
Assuming a similar pay deficiency in the volunteer army, it 
is no wonder that there is a manpower shortage. If you want 
people for unpleasant jobs you have to pay them accordingly.
Some doubts must also be raised about the seriousness of 
the alleged manpower shortage. One of the favorite com
plaints of the critics of the volunteer army is that the sys
tem could not provide enough forces if, for example, a major 
war developed in Europe. Given the potential for nuclear 
devastation that now exists, it is doubtful that such a war 
involving mass armies will ever occur again, making todays 
large army obsolete.
In the last few years, the older generation has happily 
commented on the calming of college campuses. However, 
if they try and inflict this scheme of universal service on 
young people, it is likely that activism will come back to 
life. Given the sacf reality where we feel compelled to 
maintain armed forces, the only adequate system is to 
pay those serving accordingly for the services they render. 
Universal service is just a bad solution to a nonexistent 
problem.
Charles Mitch
lo</.c{y^rHe 'h' n/jy went Volani/er7?*l
Letters
Eastman Only Stepping Down Praise for Food Service
Editor:
A phrase contained in the Feb
ruary 1, 1977 Tartan article about 
the English Department Visiting 
Committee might be subject to an 
unfortunate misrepresentation. In 
particular the phrase To com
pound matters, the head of the 
Department, Dr. Arthur Eastman, 
is due to leave," might seem to 
 imply that Professor Arthur East
man is leaving the University in 
addition to stepping down as 
Department Head. I have no 
knowledge of any plans that Pro
fessor Eastman has for leaving 
Carnegie-Mellon.
For my own part, I hope that 
the College and English Depart
ment evolve in ways that would 
make academics of Arthur East
mans intellectual quality want to 
stay here. And I hope that he 
remains a member of our faculty.
John P. Crecine 
Dean, H&SS
Editor:
Food Service on this campus 
has the usual reputation for poor 
food and worse service; however, 
a recent event has led us to sur
mise that improvement in at least 
the former could be at our very 
table tops. We refer to last Thurs
days Vegetarian Buffet in the 
Kiltie Cafe. A variety of greaseless and attractively presented 
dishes was available to please the 
palate of vegetarian and nonvege
tarian alike.
We have no complaints about 
having to serve ourselves  except 
for the real danger of overeating. 
But, why could not just one main 
dish be available at dinner every 
day? Wed go on Food Contract 
if there were!
Grateful and Gorged
Compliments to the TARTAN
Editor:
I would like to compliment 
your entire staff on the overall 
improvement of the TARTAN
this year. I feel that the sports 
section has particularly raised 
its quality. Bob Firms articles 
are always a pleasure to read. 
He writes better than some 
columnists at daily newspapers.
While I was walking by the 
remains of old Forbes Field the 
other day, I noticed Bob Firm  
Go Bucs written on the wall. 
Did our sports editor write that? 
I think a column on the Pirates 
at Forbes Field would be a great 
idea. Keep up the good work.
C. James Zamagias 
Disgruntled
Editor:
Last semester, I wrote 
three letters dealing with the 
quality of education at CMU. 
They were never published in any 
issue of the paper and I would 
like to know why. I am displeased 
with both this school and this 
paper. The students can't win.
Jon Reddell
TARTAN
Volume 77February 8, 1977Number 16
Editor in Chief 
Managing Editor 
Business Manager 
News Editor 
Entertainment Editor 
Folio Editor 
Sports Editor 
Photography Editor
Charles Mitch 
Jim Harper 
Joe Loughran 
Joan Konkle 
Randell Hunt 
David Roussos 
Tom Binnie 
Elliot Popowitz
Assistant News Editor: Eric Petersen 
Editorial Assistant: C.R. Childs
Production Assistants: Claudia Clay, Carol Dieter. Clare Nadorlik
Staff Photographers: Michael Bergman, Skip Brazelton, Rajah Chacko, Bob Cziryak, Tim Fabian, Michael Fryd, 
Chris Heck, Courtney Larson, V.R,V, Ramanan, Ken Ream, Chris Roussi.Fred Shamlian, Susanne Wilson
Copyright 1976 by the Carnegie -Mellon University TART AN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit or 
withhold from publication any copy it deems .unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Govern
ment of Carnegie -Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; (412) 621- 
2600 ext. 656 or 481. Business Offices, Skibo52; (412) .682-4557.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
Editor

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTS
.CLASSIFIED ADS classified
DEADLINE: NOON WEDNESDAY!
Classified rate: $1.00 for every 15 words. 
Announcements are printed FREE.general
Thursday Afternoon Luncheon Series pre
sents a Playwrights' Workshop with Jim 
Rosenberg and students of the Drama De
partment on February 10 at 12:30 in the 
Wherrett Room, Skibo. The series is free 
and open to the campus Community. Spon
sored by Campus Program Planning.
Ascent of Man, a documentary film series
presenting the human dimension in the 
history of science, will be presented every 
Tuesday at 11:30 and 12:30 in the Wher
rett Room, Skibo. "The Hidden Structure" 
(Matter and Atoms) will be shown on 
Feb. 8 and "The Music of the Spheres" 
(Beauty in Mathematics) on Feb. 15. There 
is no admission fee. Faculty, students and 
friends are welcome. Sponsored by Campus 
Program Planning.
 
Tartan Journalism Colloquia with Ken
Service, Director of CMU Public Relations, 
will continue on February 8 at 4:30 p.m. 
in 160 Baker Hall. Mr. Service has consi
derable experience as a free-lance jour
nalist. He has had articles published in 
most of the major national news publi
cations. All are welcome.
The Admissions Office wishes to thank the
many students who hosted" a Sleeping Bag 
guest last semester. If you enjoyed the ex
perience and would like to participate in 
the spring, stop by Admissions to volunteer 
as a host or committee member or to dis
cuss the campaigns in general. First timers, 
are welcome, too!
Senior Banquet has been rescheduled for
Saturday, February 19, 1977. At 7:30 
there will be a wine and cheese reception in 
the ballroom followed by the Banquet at 
8:30 in the downstairs cafeteria. After 
dinner there will be a dance In the ball
room featuring King Solomon. During the 
dance prizes will be awarded including a 
vacation for two to St. Maarten's. Only 
seniors are eligible for prizes and you 
must be present in order to win. Dress is 
semi-formal.
You must have a ticket to attend. 
Tickets are available upon presentation of 
valid I.D. at the Alumni Office on the 5th 
floor of Warner Hall. Tickets must be 
picked up no later than Feb. 17 at 5:00 
p.m.
There will be a meeting for any women in
CIT interested in forming a chapter of 
Society of Women Engineers on Sunday, 
February 13, 1977 at 8:00 in Skibo 
Room 12. This will be an organizational 
meeting with application forms available. 
Refreshments will be served afterwards.
All Juniors having a Q.P.A. of 3.25 are
invited to find out about Mortar Board, 
a national senior honor society. Join us 
on Wednesday, February 9 at 7:30 p.m. 
in Rm. 12 Skibo. If you are interested in 
Mortar Board, but cannot make this last 
program, please call Sheryl at 882-2662 or 
Gail at 621-7262.
The topic of the Second Annual Babcock
Symposium, sponsored by the Pittsburgh 
Psychoanalytic Society and Institute, will 
be "Psychoanalysis and Education: Contri
butions from Psychoanalysis to Education, 
the Educative Process, and the Educational 
Experience, as developed by the three 
guest speakers', Dr. Rudofpti EfcStein, Mr's. 
Elsbeth Pfeiffer, and Dr. Robert S. Wallerstein. It will take place on Friday, March 
18 at 8 p.m. and Saturday, March 19 at 
9 a.m. at the Mellon Institute Auditorium, 
4400 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15213.
John P. Crecine, Dean of the College of
Humanities & Social Sciences will have 
open office hours for students, Tuesdays 
from 1:30 to 5:00.
CMU-EPFL Undergraduate Exhange Pro
gram. Enrollment in the undergraduate ex
change program with Ecole Polytechnique 
Federale de Lausanne (EPFL), Switzerland 
(cf. pages 70-71 in latest undergraduate 
catalog) is now open for selected freshmen 
in engineering and applied science. This 
program provides an international dimen
sion to the educational process and offers 
exceptional opportunities for cultural en
richment, an outstanding technical educa
tion and exciting prospects for employ
ment following graduation. Further details 
may be obtained at orientation sessions 
scheduled on Friday, February 4, Tuesday, 
February 15, Thursday, February 24 and 
Friday, March 18 at 4:30 pm in Science 
Hall 4327 or through Megan McCaffrey, 
Science Hall 4321 (ext. 358).
"New Perspectives on the Origins of Man",
a lecture and film presentation, will be 
given by Richard E. Leakey, Leader of the 
East Rudolph Expedition, on Friday., Feb
ruary 18th, at 8:00 p.m. at Carnegie-Music 
Hall.
This program is under the auspices of 
the newly formed Council for the Carnegie 
Museum of Natural History, Carnegie Insti
tute. Thanks to a grant from Rockwell 
International Corporation, admission will 
be free to the public.
Nomination Petitions for Student Govern
ment elections will become available this 
Thursday at the Skibo Information Desk. 
This election is for both the Presidency and 
the Senate. Seats are opening in CIT, MIS, 
H&SS, and CFA.
Presently there are Senate vacancies in
CFA and CIT. To apply for these positions 
(to be filled immediately) a petition con
taining 25 signatures from within the col
lege must be presented to Senate.
Big Goomba,
A Special Lady! 
Happy Birthday!
Love, 
Little Goomba
dubs
Wanted performers interested in doing
coffeehouses this spring. Leave your name 
and number at the information desk at 
Skibo.
One bedroom, unfurnished: Fifth AvenueNeville Street Apartments. Porch, gas 
equipped kitchen, underground garage, 
laundry, basement locker. Available im
mediately, $195.00 plus electric. Mrs. Secrist, ext 495.
EUROPE via PanAm 707 for Less than %
economy fare. Call toll free (6-9 pm) 
(800) 325-4867 or see your travel agent 
60-day advance payment required. UniTravel Charters
Excellent Opportunities for College stud
ents desiring to qualify as stock-brokers 
and to earn income while ATTENDING 
COLLEGE. Financial Estate Institute OF
FERING EVENING CLASSES- Point 
Park College - 7 weeks of study. Tuition: 
$240. Call 241-6011 or 373-3300.
Spirit plans to have an International Buf
fet in March consisting of different ethnic 
foods from different nationalities. All 
those interested in contributing a special 
ethnic dish please contact Leslie Cox, 
683-7087, Welch 108, Box 515
The CMU Science Fiction Society meets
Sundays at 2 p.m. in Room 211 Skibo. 
New members are always welcome.
The CMU Explorer's Club is presently
cross country skiing and spelunking. A 
sail boating seminar is cheduled for 
February 20. If you are interested in 
these activities, feel free to come to the 
general meetings on Thursday at 7:30 
in Skibo.
Philosophy Club Meeting, Tuesday,
February 8, 8:00 p.m., Room 707,
Schenley Hall (Pitt). Topic: "Adventures 
in Paradox: THE WILL OF THE PEOPLE
 What is it? How can it be determined?" 
Guest: Professor Dennis Packard. Informal 
discussion. Refreshments. All welcome.
Ski Club will sponsor an evening of skiing
at Seven Springs, February 12. Information 
and tickets available at Skibo Information 
Desk. Deadline February 10. All welcome.
Counselors, over 19 for unique overnight
boy's summer camp in Blue Ridge Moun
tains of Penna. Able to instruct either one 
of the following: Water safety, Water ski
ing, Boating, Soccer, Basketball, Athletics, 
Archery, Riflery, Ham Radio, Rocketry, 
Science, Track, Tennis, Golf, or Pioneering. 
Write Camp Director, 138 Red Rambler 
Drive, Lafayette Hill, Pa. 19444
Summer Jobs: Fifty State catalogue of
over 2000 summer job employers (with 
application forms). Send $2 to: SUMCHOICE, Box 645, State College, Pa. 
16801
Typing thesis. Dissertations, Term Papers,
etc. Ask about free copying service. Call 
Janice 421-6483.
Male, 28, handsome, intelligent, Ph.D.
candidate, seeks female, 21-35, for inti
mate relationship. Reply: Mark, 1483 
Elizabeth Blvd., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15221.
Aaron,
Thanks for being there.
Love, Barbara
Roommate for Sale. Housebroken, good
with children, eats anything, best offer, call 
682-1538.
For Free Brochure - Write
THE COMPUTER-AGE
  ' WlDATING SERVICE
DATAMATIC
P.0. BOX 7421
OAKLAND STATION
PITTSBURGH,
PENNSYLVANIA 15213
The Worlds Largest Traveling Multi-Media Production 
THE BEATLES: AWAY WITH WORDS
Comes to Pittsburghs acoustically perfect Syria Mosque for Nine (9) unforgettable performances 
Friday, Saturday, & Sunday February 11th, 12th, & 13th. Performances at 6:00 P.M., 8:00 P.M. and 
10:00 P.M. Friday & Saturday. Sppcial 4:00 P.M. & 6:00 P.M. Matinees on Sunday and Final Per
formance 8:00 P.M.
Advanced Tickets only $3.75 on sale at all National Record Marts and all Ticketron Locations. At the 
door $4.25.
iuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiHiiiHmiiiiiiiiiiHimiiiiiiimiiiiiHiHiiniiiiiiiiiiniiiitiMMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiitiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiifliiiiii|
WINTER HOLIDAY 
(FEB. 25  MARCH 1)
Group Air Fares Now Available 
At Travel Office Skibo 40A
I ? NEW YORK $79 |
I ? BOSTON $103 I
I ? HARTFORD $90 |
20 Seats Open On Each Flight

---------------------------------------------------

page 4 TARTANFebruary 8, 1977
Week in Review
Following food" riots last week, Egyp
tian President Anwar Sadat has initiated 
prison sentences of hard labor or life for 
anyone belonging to an illegal political 
party or underground group, spreading 
false rumors, evading taxes, or partici
pating in strikes or sit-ins. He also dis
missed four cabinet members, including 
the one responsible for internal security. 
The U.S. House appropriation committee 
has approved $180 million in aid to 
Egypt, following State Department 
officials warning that Sadats security 
has been threatened by the food riots.
Postal Officials announced that costs 
of postal services wont increase this year. 
The service registered a $36.3 million 
surplus last fall, a tremendous turnabout 
in the face of their $289 million losses 
during the same period only a year ago.
Eight members of the Marxist Military
Government of Ethiopia were executed 
following an attempted coup last Thurs
day. Although Radio Ethiopia said that 
the group was unsuccessful, other sources 
reported that the faction of the Military 
Administrative Council, which has ruled 
Ethiopia since ex-Emperor Haile Selassie 
was deposed in 1974, did gain control.
by Debbie Rosenkrantz 
and Wendolf Do Ison
Financial Assistant: Mike Davis
UPI Wire Service courtesy of WRCT
Wall Street Journal courtesy of Antony
Rezek
President Carter is taking steps to fulfill
his campaign promises by asking Congress 
for authority to reorganize the Executive 
Branch (excluding the cabinet). He hopes 
to submit a plan that will reduce financial 
waste, confusion, and duplication of effort 
before the end of the year. The Senate also 
made a streamlining move by reducing its 
number of committees from 31 to 24. 
The reorganization, which is the first sig
nificant change since 1946, is expected 
to open more chairmanships to Junior 
Senators.
1000 tourists were trapped in Tanzania
when the country officially closed its 
border with Kenya last Thursday. A group 
of 160 American and Canadian visitors 
left by chartering a plane to fly them to 
Nairobi. Relations between the two 
countries have deteriorated steadily since 
the collapse of their jointly financed 
airline.
At least 16 people were killed and
about 200 were injured when one elevated 
commuter train bumped into another 
above Chicagos Loop area during rush 
hour Friday.
Secretary Vance has pledged to discuss
a general reduction in the traffic of arms 
with the Soviet Government during his up
coming visit to the'Kremlin on March 28. 
The Carter Administration is pressing to 
lower the ceiling on nuclear weaponry. 
Top Soviet officials are predicting that 
barring a new Strategic Arms Limitations 
Act, an escalation of the arms race and 
eventual mass destruction will ensue.
Members of the United Steelworkers
Union (USW) will go to 5,300 local polling 
places in the United States and Canada 
this Tue., Feb. 8, to elect a new USW 
president and vote for new directors in 15 
of the 25 districts. The race to fill the 
place of retiring president I.W. Abel is 
being bitterly contested by the insurgent 
Edward Sadlowski (the 38-year old head of 
the Chicago-Gary district) and Lloyd 
McBride (60-year old St. Louis district 
head), who has Abels endorsement. Walter 
Burke, Steelworkers Secretary-Treasurer 
has requested assistance from Labor De
partment officials but Sadlowski has ex
pressed grave doubts of the likelihood of 
fair elections and is calling for broader 
supervision from the department. Both 
candidates are projecting their own vic
tories by large margins.
Key members of India's ruling Congress 
Party have left the party to work toward 
the end of Prime Minister Indira Ghandis 
eleven year rule. This leaves the party 
split just a month and a half before elec
tions scheduled for March. The first 
Opposition rallies since the announcement 
of Emergency rule by Ghandi 19 months 
ago were attended by 50,000 people in 
New Delhi, and many more in five other 
cities. Attendance was much greater than 
expected. Meanwhile, the voluntary 
sterilization program, initiated to slow 
population growth, has become contro
versial following reports that government 
officials are forcibly sterilizing people in 
order to make or exceed quotas.
A pay increase for top level government
officials, including Congressmen, will go 
into effect February 20, unless the House 
or Senate unexpectedly rejects the bill. 
The Senate voted to table a resolution of 
disapproval late last week.
The Moscow Olympics will be televised 
in the U.S. by the National Broadcasting 
Company. The estimated S100 million 
contract includes no guarantees from the 
USSR that the company will not lose the 
money, to be paid in advance, even in the 
case that the Olympics are not held.
For the fifth straight week, the stock 
market continued its slide. The Dow Jones 
Industrial Average was down almost ten 
points. Utilities were strong because they 
are benefitting from the cold weather, 
but growth stocks were weak due to 
doubts that earnings gains will continue at 
a high rate. Investors are concerned about 
the effects the cold weather will have on 
kindling inflation and preventing the eco
nomic recovery from gaining momentum. 
Fruits, vegetables, and natural gas prices 
are headed upward, which will reduce con
sumer spending in other areas. Bond 
prices continue to fall because of renewed 
fears of inflation. Investors are hesitant to 
lock their funds up at current interest 
rates. Bond interest rates are rising as the 
bond price declines. Further financial mar
ket actions will be dependent on the 
Carter Administrations ability to get the 
economy stimulated, their handling of 
the cold weather problem, and formulation 
of a long term energy policy.
? ????????????????????????????????????????????????? 
FOOD SERVICE HOT LINE TO THE DIRECTOR EVERY MONDAY 5 TO 6 P.M. EXT. 653 or 654
IIHIdllBIWtWIIIIMHUUIiHWIimMMHHHUIUIHHHUMUiyilWIMIIWWBWHHWBWIIimHlilimHMHWWIIBIWiHIMIBHimMMHHHmfe
SAVE !!!
FOOD SERVICE 
COUPON BOOK 
SALE
THE MONTH OF FEBRUARY
COOP0*1
DO*
*
CO>0*0*
_FFe
Good of All Food Service Facilities on Campus
$10.00 Book for $9.00 $20.00 Book for $18.00
REGUl AR PRICE
$10.00 Book  $9.50$20.00 Book  $19.00
Available At ... . 
SKIBO FOOD SERVICE OFFICE 
Room 201  Mon.-Frl. 8:30 a.m. - 7:00 p.m. 
CMU BOOKSTORE
SAVE I!!
author and editorfrom Australia
w'mmwwwww
r
LA A. JL M
GEOFFREY J BARRATT
A TALK ON
REALIZING YOUR TRUE INDIVIDUALITY
12 noon Friday February 11th 
Multipurpose Room / Hunt Library
use outside entrance
hosted by Christian Science Organization at CMU

---------------------------------------------------

February 8, 1977TARTAN-page 5
Actuarial Science Option Created
by Maris Paul
Four insurance companies have invested 
$70,000 in a new Actuarial Science Option 
at CMU. Actuaries function as calculators 
of insurance risks and premiums. Equi
table, N.Y. Life, Metropolitan Life, and 
Connecticut General, soon to be joined by 
Prudential, CNA (Chicago), New England 
Life, and National Liberty Corporation 
(Philadelphia), express confidence in the 
program initiated by Marion Oliver, 
Director of C-MAP and Associate Dean of 
SUP A. The new option, open to all AMS 
and Mathematics majors at CMU, is the 
first of its kind in the nation.
The option requires thirteen courses for 
Applied Mathematics majors and twelve 
for students in AMS, some of which may 
already be required for the regular degree 
program, e.g., Calculus I and II, and all of 
which may serve as elective requirements. 
In addition, non-credit Problem Solving 
Seminars help freshmen and sophomore 
level students in the program prepare for
the several exams required for entrance to 
the Society of Actuaries.
The insurance firms have disvested 
themselves of unsuccessful university 
programs - unsuccessful in the sense that 
they did not produce students capable of 
passing qualifying exams. They and Dr. 
Oliver feel certain that this program will 
achieve even greater success; graduates will 
have a broad base of knowledge, yet pos
sess recognized and specific skills. They 
will be able to enter a large, open market 
with the capacity to rise quickly within 
the industry.
For minority high school students, 
C-MAP will offer summer sessions to 
fortify math and writing skills and to iden
tify potential students. In addition, 
summer work sessions will be provided for 
students enrolled in the program who were 
unable to pass the first exam.
Students who are unable to pass all cer
tifying exams still have many opportunities 
for employment. Those who will not regis-The
ter as Actuaries will be desired by many 
firms, particularly banks, for knowledge 
attained in their course work. Oliver is 
presently negotiating with local banks 
and familiarizing them with the program; 
he expects Equibank, Mellon, Pittsburgh 
National and Union National Banks to 
open their doors to graduates.
Placement services will be available for 
graduates through Dr. Olivers office; and 
relevant summer employment will be 
arranged for current students in the program.
He feels that C-MAP is an ideal foun
dation for the program, as it is marketoriented ; when industry supports a pro
gram, C-MAP returns graduates, largely 
minority, capable of filling the position. 
He stressed, though, that the Actuarial 
Science Option is not limited to blacks; 
he is administering it wearing his Math 
Department hat.
A meeting will be held in mid-February 
to discuss the option.
Cert Addresses Faculty
continued from page 1
at CMU give way in some cases to more 
innovative methods of teaching. With the 
aid of grants from the Internal Carnegie 
Foundation, the University has made 
advances in self-paced education, compu
ter-aided instruction, and in other innoonly cheaper way to see Europeis to enlist
2 months, unlimited Second Class train travel, 13 countries, $230.
Check it out. A Student-Railpass is a super deal; the best and cheapest way to see 
a lot of the Continent. Trains are fast, comfortable, frequent. And they speed you to the heart of cities. 
Stations are like small towns with everything a traveler needs. You meet fellow 
backpackers (Europeans, too). You can sleep on board; couchettes are bargains. Your Student-Railpass 
even covers some ferry steamer and motorcoach rides. Best of all with the Pass you can stay loose, 
park where you like, move on at whim. Theres always another train you can catch.
To get a Student-Railpass you have to be a full-time student under 26. Both Student-Railpass 
and Eurailpass are sold here through your Travel Agent. You cant buy them in Europe.
If youve less than or more than two months, get a Eurailpass. Same idea but you ride First Class. 
Available in two or three-week Passes, or one, two, or three-month Passes.
If youre not about to enlist why not plan to see Europe with a Student-Railpass.
No, you wont have to pass a physical.
Student-Railpass. Box Q 
Staten Island. N Y 10305
Please send me free information on Europe's biggest travel 
bargain, Student-Railpass and Eurailpass
Name . 
Address . 
City __State
My Travel Agent is. 
AUSTRI Am
BELGIUM DENMARK
192-408
FRANCE 
GERMANY HOLLAND 
ITALY LUXEMBOURG 
NORWAY PORTUGALSUPAEU valutaSS
SPAIN SWEDEN 
SWITZERLAND
vative methods of teaching as was cited in 
a conference on Innovation & Producti
vity in Higher Education last October. 
He would like to see a greater use of com
puters as aids in the classroom as the com
puter center is updated.
The Education Center is attempting, 
through the use of internal and outside 
grants, to improve the quality of teaching 
by initiating programs for faculty develop
ment. Training courses for graduate stu
dents as well as the more experienced 
faculty members will be developed through 
the Education Center.
President Cyert wants to insure that the 
curricula at CMU are preparing the stu
dents to meet the challenges that will face 
them in their future years. He would like 
to see a continuation of innovative curri
cula (such as CMUs policy requiring 
science students to take H&SS courses) in 
the area of preparing students for decision
making and problem-solving.
In the area of research, President Cyert 
is pleased with Jie projects that have been 
undertaken in various departments and 
with the effort to incorporate the research 
into the curriculum. Innovative research 
is being done in mathematics, computer 
science, and engineering. In the area of 
pure science, President Cyert said, We 
are developing greater research capability 
in biology and are retaining our strength 
in physics, and also stated that the uni
versity has begun to implement a plan for 
the strengthening of the chemistry depart
ment.
To remain in competition with schools 
that can allocate more of their resources 
to established fields of research, President 
Cyert feels that CMU must discover new 
areas to research and move into them 
quickly to establish a strong position ... 
that will enable us to make unique contri
butions. He is also pleased with the pro
grams and research in H&SS and refers to 
it as a college with a special flavor that 
will add to the strength of the University.
Camegie-Mellon has succeeded in in
creasing their national exposure in the past 
18 months. The University has received 
coverage in 27 syndicated newspaper sto
ries, in more than 40 articles in 32 
nationally circulated publications, on CBS 
network news, on the Man and Mole
cules radio program, and on the Voice 
of America radio network. In addition, 
a public service message produced by the 
University is broadcast throughout the 
country. President Cyert commended the 
Public Relations department of the Univer
sity for their success.
In conclusion, President Cyert feels 
that the University has advanced greatly 
in reputation and standing through ...a 
cooperative spirit among students, faculty, 
and administration. He feels that by 
setting its goals for the future high, Carnegie-Mellon will take its place as a great 
institution.

---------------------------------------------------

Every Seat is a Window Seat
by Sherry Siegel
The smallest plane I have ever flown in 
couldnt have seated more than twenty-five 
people. The flight was a sight-seeing trip 
over the Grand Canyon; before we boarded 
the pilot himself asked all of us how much 
we weighed. Then, on board, I saw that 
some seats were occupied by weighted 
bags, with notices explaining how they 
were balancing the plane for the smoothest 
possible flight. I was certain 1 was going to 
die that day: the tiny, unbalanced plane 
would be dashed against the cliffs, and my 
blood would spatter those lovely, orange 
and brown layers of rock.
I remembered this experience when my 
editor told me that the members of the 
Tech Flying Club had just bought them
selves a new airplane. Wondering nervously 
what had happened to the old one, 1 none
theless jumped at the invitation to go for a 
ride in it. The Grand Canyon flight, after 
all, had turned out all right; surely this was 
an opportunity not to be passed up.
For days I entertained Snoopy-like fan
tasies of myself sitting in an open cockpit, 
the sun glinting off my goggles, and my 
scarf blowing jauntily behind me.
It wasnt like that at all. To begin with, 
the day of the flight was dark, windy, and 
snowy. I was certain we would postpone 
the trip, and felt a bit relieved. But I 
underestimated the passion of fliers for the 
Wild Blue Yonder. At four oclock in the 
afternoon, four of us gathered at Warner 
Hall to drive out to Allegheny County 
Municipal Airport: Tony Fine, pilot and 
president of Tech Flying Club; Jack 
Christensen, Director of University Rela
tions; Mike Fryd, Tartan staff photo
grapher; and myself.
The Club had been looking around for a 
new plane since Thanksgiving, Tony ex
plained on the way to the airport. They 
had an Aero-Commander 100, a single
engine, three-seater, but it was eight years 
old and never a popular model, not even 
eight years ago. It was difficult and expen
sive to get parts for it, and, though it was 
in excellent condition, the Club traded it 
in three weeks ago for a Cessna Skyhawk. 
A Skyhawk is valued at $30,000, but with 
the trade-in and by bargaining with the 
dealer, the Club acquired it for less.
During much of the ride to the airport, 
Tony and Mr. Christensen were in deep 
technical discussion: Mr. Christensen had 
been a pilot in the Air Force, and though 
he hadnt flown for over three years, evi
dently once the flying bug bites, youre 
hooked for life. While they talked I looked 
through Tonys Flight Record, which is a 
detailed account of how many hours he has 
flown and how (solo, dual, cross-country..) 
in what kind of plane, and what maneuvers 
he performed. So far, Tony has flown over 
500 hours, which marks him as having had 
a great deal of experience flying planes.
Ten to twelve hours are usually flown 
under the close supervision of a qualified 
instructor before a solo flight is made; 40 
hours are required before eligibility to take 
the flight test  passing this and a written 
test entitles the flier to a Private Pilot Cer
tificate (a license). After this, the pilot goes 
on adding hours and earning more privi
leges: night flying, commercial certificate 
(necessary before one can fly for hire), 
qualification to teach novice pilots ... 
flying is a time-consuming skill that de
mands serious devotion.
We finally arrived at the airport, which 
was nearly deserted in the late winter after
noon, and bore little resemblance to 
Greater Pitt. Cars shared wide, dirt roads 
with planes taxiing out to the runways, 
giant gas stations were sprinkled among the 
hangars, and the runways were out of
sight. At last we came to the hangar  our 
hangar  where the three-week old Sky
hawk was waiting.
A new Cessna Skyhawk is a beautiful 
machine. Though it definitely looks like 
an airplane, comparing it to a jet is as 
silly as saying a newborn infant looks like 
an adult. Where a jet is a solid structure of 
sleek, tubular parts, this small relation is 
more delicate, more airy. The wings seem 
to be propped up by angled legs; the pro
peller measures only 6 feet across; the 
wingspan is only 36 feet, slightly more 
than the length of the entire plane from 
its nose to its tail. The plane is a gleaming 
white, with parallel bands of brown and 
sky-blue on its fuselage.
Tony attached a towbar to the front 
wheel cover- and pulled, Mike and Mr. 
Christensen pushed, and together the 
three of them moved the plane outside. 
This was not an encouraging thing to 
watch, for its hard to believe that an 
airplane which is so easily moved about, 
that wiggles when you lean on the wing, 
can actually fly. The most a Skyhawk 
can weigh, in fact, is 2300 pounds  
thats with four people, some luggage, 
and a full tank of gas. Empty, it only 
weighs 1400 pounds. A small car weighs 
about 3000 pounds; a large car, 4000 
pounds. A jet weighs a few hundred tons.
Explaining what he was doing, Tony 
performed a pre-flight check. He tested 
out all the moveable parts (like the flaps 
on the wings and the rudder), drained 
fuel from each tank to make sure there 
was no sediment or water mixed in, and 
checked the propeller. Using the conve
nient toe step protruding from either 
leg, I climbed into the back seat. The 
back seat area is just big enough for two 
people. Behind the back seat is a small 
space for luggage; ahead are the two front 
bucket seats with a rudder on each side. 
(Pilots usually fly from the left, but 
because they teach from thf right, they can 
fly from both sides.) The dashboard is 
crammed with dials and meters. Tony sat 
on the right, and Mr. Cristensen sat on 
the left.
Then Tony yelled out, Clear prop! 
(Its like yelling fore on a golf course, 
Mr. Christensen explained, it lets people 
know they should get out of the way.) 
and we began our taxi to the runway.
The ground was very bumpy, and I 
thought we might tip over  the wheels 
of a plane are small compared to the 
rest of it. I thought we might skid on the 
ice, but we made it to the runway safely. 
There I thought we might get hit by a 
landing plane, but the people in the control 
tower seemed to know what they were 
doing. I wasnt sure wed be able to lift 
off  the wind was blowing us about so. 
Then in the air I wondered how long wed 
manage to stay up  the plane was so 
small, and we kept on dropping down and 
swaggering from side to side.
But then I concentrated on the view 
(Every seat is a window seat in this 
plane, Mike observed), and didnt care 
anymore about the dropping and the 
swaggering. The view must be what hooks 
most people inti) learning to fly  that and 
ths sheer excitement of being in control of 
flight.
We flew at an altitude of 1000 feet, 
which is a good altitude for local flying, 
allowing us to see the ground clearly. 
Commercial jets fly at altitudes of 35- 
45,000 feet; the Skyhawk can reach as 
high as 15,000 feet. We flew over the 
Northside, over downtown, past the 
Cathedral of Learning, and circled the 
CMU campus. Seeing familiar places in a 
new perspective is disorienting: it took a
Tony Fine, President of the Tech Flying Club, Flying is more sheer joy than fear
few moments before I realized that that 
grassy quadrangle was the cut, and that 
monstrous piece of architecture, Morewood Gardens.
We had 30 mph head winds. I learned 
amazing things, abut drag and lift, spins, 
and coordinating turns. (In a plane, the 
feet do the steering by controlling the 
rudder, and the hand-held wheel banks the 
wings. Getting the right combination of 
each maneuver is called coordinating a 
turn.) I figured out on my own the reason 
why the light on the tip of the right wing 
is green and the light on the tip of the 
left wing is red: so other pilots can deter
mine what direction the plane is heading 
depth perception is altered at night. I 
learned that night flights are generally 
smoother, because there is less air traffic 
at night and the air is calmer.
We stayed in flight for over an hour, 
from daylight through dusk to evening. 
Pockets of electricity lit up here and there, 
until the city was sprinkled with thousands 
of lights shining up to us through the 
night. Mr. Christensen did all the piloting; 
like riding a bicycle, I suppose, once you 
learn,how, you never forget. He did a 
touch-and-go, which means we landed and 
then immediately took off, giving him a 
quick review of some rudiments.
The landings were a surprise - they 
were much smoother than commercial 
jet landings, and we stopped almost
immediately after touching down. This 
latter is because the Skyhawk lands at 
70 mph; its light weight makes stopping 
the plane comparable to braking in a 
car at a red light. Jets, however, touch 
down at 120 mph and need more time to 
decelerate.
Pilots never lose the respect and awe 
that flying imparts. Mark Gilmore, a mem
ber of the Club who earned his license after 
only 50 days, and who has flown now for 
120 hours, smiled at my enthusiasm and 
reminded me that its not nearly as much 
fun to ride in a plane as it is to fly. The 
Tech Flying Club meets the third Wednes
day of every month  its next meeting is 
February 16. Of the twenty members, 
about ten have pilots licenses and ten are 
learning how to fly. There are also about 
ten associate members, who do all Club 
activities but fly; that is, see films put 
out by the Federal Aviation Administra
tion, hear guest speakers, see demonstra
tions, and learn nagivational skills. The 
members also do a lot of hangar flying, 
which means they all sit around and trade 
flying stories.
Anyone at any age can learn how to 
fly, though you must be at least 17 years 
old to receive a license. I asked Tony how 
his first solo flight felt  wasnt he scared? 
He said no. Its more sheer joy than 
scariness, really.
BlRTHD/tV^BlROK)
FROM THE- STAFFOF . . .
Supported by Student Government
88.3 Fm
..?IT'S a radio Jhow 
Monday WIGWT5 FRom 
MlDWIGffT TO 3AA
War ustmuG MAY RESvtr by Marari 50to*6KESS

---------------------------------------------------

February 8, 1977TARTAN-page 7
CMU Planning Called Called Autocratic
continued from page 1
One of the major strengths of SUPA is 
the atmosphere of the school. There is a 
good feeling between the students, faculty, 
and administration, which results in fairly 
good rapport between these groups. A 
second major strength lies in the fact that 
SUPA has achieved classes which are about 
half black men and women, thus continu
ing its commitment to integration. Since 
much of the curriculum involves collabora
tive efforts, the school has created a situ
ation closely resembling that of the real 
world. The fact that this system works well 
and that there is no fragmentation by race 
or sex is a source of great pride to the ad
ministration of SUPA.
The organization of the school has a 
serious problem. The relationship between 
the Dean of SUPA, who must report to the 
Dean of GSIA (who is incidentally a Pro
vost) and the latter Dean is awkward. The 
roles of these two positions should be more 
explicitly delineated to cover their inter
relationship as well as their relationship to 
the Vice President of Academic Affairs. 
The report also noted that there is a ge
neral feeling of insecurity throughout 
SUPA based on the fear that it will be ab
sorbed by GSIA. Despite the fact that the 
University administration has no such 
plans and continues to support SUPA, the 
feeling still exists. This is probably due to 
the fact that SUPA has yet to explicitly 
articulate its goals and thus feels uncomfor
table standing both against and apart from 
GSIA. Whatever the reason, this feeling has 
resulted in a serious lack of cooperation 
between the two schools with the excep
tion of the Ph.D. level. This is an important 
fault, for cooperation would be of im
mense benefit to both parties. SUPA itself 
asked the team whether its internal organi
zation, consisting of two associate deans as 
well as the Dean, was top-heavy. The team 
decided that this was not the case, and that 
the three administrators helped create an 
excellent learning environment for the stu
dents and providing competent counseling.
In the area of enrollment, SUPAs goal 
of about 60 masters students per year is 
realistic with respect to the employment 
situation, but its goal of 10-15 Ph.D. can
didates per year is excessive, for it is ques
tionable whether or not the market,can ab
sorb that many graduates, and it is unfair 
to the students themselves to encourage 
production of that many.
The quality of the faculty impressed 
the evaluation team; they were described 
as young, highly productive, well trained, 
and devoted to their job. The only danger 
found was the potential problem that the 
financial need for faculty-sponsored re
search could possibly lead to the neglect 
of students. Given the enormous strength 
of the faculty, its willingness to work long 
hours, and its general good will, however, 
the danger is not immediate. The situation
continued from page 1
No decision was made about putting all 
Morewood Gardens residents on mandato 
ry food contract. As only 14% of More 
wood residents cook, it was doubted that 
their cooking grease was responsible for all 
the dormitorys plumbing problems. Better 
kitchen facitilities were recommended for 
the Hill dorms. The installment of Centrex 
was widely supported by the Committee 
members. The Student Senateand the Stu
dent Dorm Council disputed a proposal to 
charge each student equally for Centrex, 
preferring instead to charge for each 
phone, regardless of the number of users.
though, should be monitored to insure that 
this type of crisis does not arise.
The major weakness of the curriculum, 
in the words of the committees report, 
is a direct result of the strength of the 
faculty. The curriculum involves too 
much quantitative analysis. There is a clear 
need for more instruction in executive 
leadership, for students have come to 
think that mastery of quantitative analysis 
is all they need to learn and that all other 
managerial skills can be acquired on the 
job. They cannot be blamed for this, for 
they are merely reflecting the attitude of 
the faculty and administration.
The team was puzzled by the fact that 
the lack of any focus on the political en
vironment, ideology, political values, and 
ethics did not seem to bother anyone. It 
was felt that these missing elements would 
indeed bother the students after gradu
ation. The team therefore suggested that 
the curriculum be restructured to place 
less emphasis on the teaching of methods 
of quantitative analysis and more on those 
areas mentioned above.
The team also noted that the program in 
Engineering and Public Policy is excellent 
and that every effort should be made to 
strengthen and improve the program.
As mentioned previously, the faculty of 
SUPA was judged to be excellent, but the 
team felt that several recommendations 
were warranted. The first involves the over
emphasis of the curriculum on quantitative 
analysis. More faculty less devoted to that 
methodology should be acquired so that 
other areas could be taught equally well. 
This could possibly create divisions in the 
faculty, but these could be ironed out by 
the Dean, since cooperation between the 
two faculty groups would be an integral 
part of the program. The second recom
mendation addresses the problem of the 
relative youth of the faculty by hiring one 
or more senior faculty members. The 
third recommendation is that SUPA make 
better use of part-time faculty members. 
Such people would improve the program 
great'v by providing expertise and experi
ence to complement that of the faculty. 
Part-time faculty could also help alleviate 
the overemphasis on quantitative analysis.
Upon examination, the administration 
of SUPA was judged to be very autocratic, 
as there is little faculty and student in
volvement in policy and administrative de
cisions. In general, however, there is good 
communication between the faculty, stu
dents, and administration. The structure of
the administration does not appear to 
bother anyone, though, and indeed it must 
be congratulated for one admirable trait  
it works and it works well.
Admissions in SUPA is a definite prob
lem. Of 106 students who applied last 
year, 75 were admitted and 51 enrolled. 
These figures definitely do not reflect 
the quality claimed by the administration, 
so efforts must be made to expand the 
size of the applicant pool and to publicize 
the school itself.
A number of strengths of SUPA were 
cited. Practitioners in fields related to 
urban and public affairs are constantly 
brought in to lecture. These lectures pro
vide somewhat of a balance to the num
ber crunching of the first year curricu
lum. An additional strength is the quanti
tative skills program which provides those 
students with weak backgrounds training 
in the areas in which they are weak. The 
summer internship program is also a great 
asset, but the administration feels that 
all of the managerial skills required of the 
students can be acquired through it, and 
this is clearly not the case. The program, 
though, is an excellent and integral part 
of the SUPA curriculum.
continued on page 10
Evenings 5 P.M.11 PM Sunday thru Friday 
Nights 11 PM.8AM Everynight 
Weekends All Day Saturday Until 5 PM Sunday
*Dial-direct calls are those IntraU.S.Mainland calls completed from a residence or business 
phone without operator assistance or calls placed with an operator from a residence or business 
phone where dial-direct facilities are not available.
Bell of Pennsylvania

---------------------------------------------------

page 8 -TARTAN-February 8, 1977
Announcing
A FOOD SERVICE 
SPECIAL EVENT
By Request
We are Repeating
Check Next Week's
For Details
Chemistry Prof Teaches High School KiddiculeToppled McCarthy
by A my Boyle
Chemistry professor Albert Caretto be
lieves that engineering and science students 
today are not as well prepared as they used 
to be. He is doing something about it by 
teaching chemistry to high school students.
For two years, Caretto has been 
teaching chemistry to freshmen. He has 
found todays freshmen are not as well in
structed in the fundamentals of chemistry 
as students were ten years ago when he 
taught the same course.
The Babcock School District Board 
of Directors recently found themselves 
with one, instead of two chemistry tea
chers. While one teacher could fulfill the 
requirements, the School Board did not 
feel that was enough. As a veteran member 
of a concerned parents group with two 
children in the school system, Caretto is 
familiar with some of the problems in the 
Babcock School District.
that the School Board take advantage of 
some of the talent in the community either 
on a formal or informal basis. When the 
School Board found they needed a chemis
try teacher they decided to take him up 
on his offer.
A non-credit evening class, scheduled to 
begin February 24, has already attracted 
61 students. The course is designed to 
supplement what the students learn in 
their regular chemistry and physics courses.
In addition to enriching their chemistry 
background, Caretto hopes to give the 
students some college course exposure and 
help them learn useful problem solving 
techniques.
Its an experiment, Caretto said, to 
see how many kids are willing to spend an 
extra evening a week to learn science. 
If the experiment is successful this semes
ter, Caretto says he will probably continue 
to work with the Science Department at
In the past Caretto often suggested Richland Senior High School.
_____Still Room on the Ground Floor for______
GDmputerEngineeis&Rograrnmeis
Computer professionals are aware that 
today's most advanced large-svstem 
technology was developed by a compa
ny that, not too long ago. was virtually 
unknown. It was during late 1975 
when Amdahl delivered its first multimill ion-dollar 170V ?> system follow
ing a 5-year. $50.000.000 effortthat 
thecomfKiny first attraeted widespread 
industry attention. Now. Amdahl is 
the rmst talked aliout company in the 
industry: a compact group of hightalent high technologists producing the 
world's highest |>erfomiing general 
pur|ose computers. By the end of 
we install*!.{{systemsvalued at 
1 lO.OOO.(NM) worldwide.
The original dsign team is still 
virtually intact and working on future 
systems. Although we ar growing at 
an xtremely rapid psice. we are
committed to retaining the same crea
tive environmnt that yielded the 
17<)V (i. We are still small by computer 
industry comparisons: we ended 
1970 with fewer than S00 people. We 
are still friendly. We still enjoy 
attacking tasks U'causewe think 
its fun. And we still reward jnrsonal 
efforts with |>ersonal recognition.
We think Amdahl is a great 
place to work. There's still room on the 
ground floor for you if you arealmut* 
to receive a HS or advanced degree in 
electrical engineering or computer 
seieiM (*s. and consider yourself a cut 
aliove your classmates in com|*,t,n-c. 
enthusiasm and |>otcntiai.
Amdahl ( orjtoration. 1250 Kast 
An|lies Avcnu\ Sunnyvale. California 
9 lOStl. \\i an*, of courx1. an *|iial op 
|N>rtunity employer.
ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS:
Momlav. February 11
amdahl
continued from page 1 
would forget.
Hiss concluded his 45 minute speech by 
saying that he felt the hysteria of the Mc
Carthy period probably would not recur, 
He believes that the American public is too 
sophisticated now to be so completely 
manipulated by a demagogue like Mc
Carthy.
After he finished his prepared remarks, 
Hiss answered questions from the audience 
for about an hour. The questions con
cerned such subjects as Whittaker Cham
bers, who had first accused Hiss of giving 
government documents to the Russsians, 
Richard Nixon, a member of the House 
Un-American Activities Committee and 
one of his most outspoken and vehement 
detractors, and his readmittance to the 
Massachusetts bar last year.
Hiss plans to donate his $3,500 lecture 
fee to the Emergency Fund of the Ameri
can Civil Liberties Union.
SARC Provides More Than Job Bank
by Philip Burda
The Student-Alumni Relations Com
mittee provides services to the students 
which are made possible through the utili
zation of one of the universitys greatest 
resources, its alumni. The alumni are 
eager to provide their help, and through 
the Student-Alumni Relations Committee, 
their aid improves student life and the life 
of the campus as a whole.
The committee has been involved in a 
number of successful projects this year. 
The Summer Job Bank was run by SARC, 
and President Larry Valery said that the 
books should be printed and mailed before 
the end of February. SARC will aim at 
alumni and placements services, and hopes 
to develop a relationship between CMU 
alumni and the undergraduates for summer 
jobs.
Career Development is another project 
of the committees. It is designed to sup
plement career knowledge with real-life 
experience in the field, provided by the 
alumni. Students will work for alumni 
in their chosen fields without pay for a 
wekk, and gain actual working experience
in the field they are interested in. It will 
also include group seminars with alumni 
discussing job possibilities and the business 
situations in the respective areas of in
terest. The program to match the students 
with alumni will be organized in a month, 
and information will be available on it 
then.
The Alumni also helped -the students 
through the Hospitality Committee. This 
provided 29 students with the opportunity 
of eating Thanksgiving dinner with an. 
alumnus instead of eating it alone at Carnegie-Mellon.
SARC also helps to get the alumni 
involved in giving necessary information 
to students, such as insurance, renting 
apartments, and other such topics. This 
complements the information now being 
given to students, and is still in the 
planning stages.
The Senior Banquet is also put on by 
SARC, and was postponed until February 
19.
The committee provides a Freshman In
formation Service, giving freshmen a bro
chure full of information at the beginning
of the year.
A Speakers Bureau is also a part of 
SARC. It sends students all over America 
to speak to alumni groups about the cam
pus and university as it is now, changes and 
additions to the university, and to answer 
questions by the alumni. Last year, two 
speakers went to Florida and Philadelphia 
and were well-received. Future plans in
clude a trip to the west coast, with stops at 
San Diego, San Francisco, Los Angeles, 
Denver, Phoenix, and Seattle.
The committee would like to add a stu
dent segment to Homecoming weekend. 
Last year, students helped in the arts and 
crafts fair, registration, and tents, and gave 
tours to the alumni. SARC would like to 
establish a luncheon with the alumni to 
include the students, and hopes to start a 
general campus meeting on Homecoming 
so that all of the organizations can coordi
nate their efforts for the weekend.
The Career Development committee 
also helps graduates become situated in 
cities when they get a job. It can provide 
names of alumni in the city, and the name 
of the local Clan if there is one. The alumni
Larry Valery, President of SARC
are usually very eager to help any graduate 
in need of help.
The committee currently uses mostly 
Pittsburgh alumni, among which Mike 
Spanovich is the most active.

---------------------------------------------------

February 8, 1977TARTANpage 9
REAL Helps Students 
Finance Education
by Maris Paul
Relating Experience to Academic Lear
ning [REAL] is a federally-funded pro
gram administered by the Commonwealth 
of Pennsylvania in which qualified stu
dents, working in their chosen career fields 
as part of their academic work, are able to 
finance their educations. CMU has chosen 
not to participate in the program.
REAL, an offshoot of the ten-year-old 
College Work-Study Program (CWS), pro
vides opportunities similar to those cur
rently offered by the Metallurgy Depart
ment at CMU. The generalized program 
provides,' through university/industry co
ordination and faculty-overseen planning, 
a course of study in which students follow 
an on again, off again schedule; a semes
ter is spent on campus in academic course 
work, and the following semester working 
in industry, exercising acquired skills and 
learning new ones. The undergraduate 
program, which eliminates the summer 
break, takes approximately five years to 
complete.
Margaret Whittington of Financial Aid 
gave several reasons for CMUs reluc
tance to embark upon the program. She 
explained that federal monies are distri
buted by the state to colleges and uni
versities in sums proportionate to the 
number of students enrolled and their 
financial status. Because CMU is small 
and attracts a relatively well-off group 
of students, great amounts of money 
are not attracted here. Also, the funds 
are given in one lump sum, to be spent 
either on CWS or REAL. Any money spent
for REAL projects must be taken away 
from CWS. As all of available monies are 
now' being awarded as CWS to students as 
part of their financial aid packages, 
cutbacks in this area will affect these 
students ability to continue financing their 
education in this way.
In addition, costs of administering 
this program, which requires closer 
coordination of more people, would 
consume a significantly larger percen
tage of the CMU allotment than the 
CWS program. This portion would be 
subtracted from the money available 
for direct student aid. The popularity 
of REAL at larger universities, e.g., the 
University of Pittsburgh and Penn State 
(main & branch campuses) has shown that 
many students prefer to work on-the-job 
and to build their resumes while earning 
money to earn their undergraduate degrees.
Whittington feels that the present 
method of distributing the money benefits 
CMU directly in a way that REAL would 
not. The two programs, CWS and REAL 
provide money that pays, in part, student 
salaries. CWS pays for 80% of work study 
students wages; the university pays only 
20%. - With the exception of a few 
non-profit institutions, most CWS money is 
distributed on-campus. With CWS funds 
the libraries are able to hire workers 
they could not otherwise afford, and 
many labs rely on work-study students 
for help. REAL would take these monies 
away from these campus groups, aiding 
private industry by providing them with 
less expensive, though qualified labor. 
Financial Aid wants these funds to remain 
available to the University.
CMU Closing Explained
by Robin Mager
According to the Director of Physical 
Plant, William Banks, CMU was forced to 
close its facilities on Friday afternoon, 
January 28, and last Monday morning 
because a blizzard was expected and be
cause of the inaccesibility of fuel. Though 
the snowstorm was not as severe as antici
pated, the temperature dropped well below 
freezing. It was this temperature drop that 
caused the state government to urge the 
Bellefield Boiler Plant to reduce its gas 
consumption by 33%.
Bellefield Boiler burns both coal and 
natural gas and while there may have been 
enough coal available to keep campus faci
lities going, there would not have been 
enough fuel to supply Bellefields other 
customers.
An increased consumption of coal 
could have created two mr>re problems: 
a short supply of coal and more pollution. 
Normally, the University has enough coal 
for ten days at a time, but the cold weather 
has frozen some of the machinery of Bellefield's coal supplier, Champion Mines. In
creased consumption would have led to an 
even greater scarcity of fuel. In addition, 
the burning of coal would have produced 
more pollutants than the burning of gas.
Head was reduced in all classroom 
buildings and in Skibo, and the kilns and 
glass-blowing furnaces were shut off alto
gether. They will remain off until the 
situation has improved.
Heat in dormitories and fraternity 
houses is not supplied by Bellefield Boiler 
but by Peoples' Gas Co.
The University has not been affected by 
the fuel shortage in the way that other 
institutions have because fuel is delivered 
to the Bellefield plant by rail rather than
Walter Cathie, Director of Financial Aid
by water and because it is a private institu
tion which is not obligated to comply with 
the requests of the government in the same 
way that state-run institutions are.
While there is fuel, its supply is not 
necessarily indefinite and as long as the 
area is in the grip of harsh weather another 
shutdown could become necessary.
Ovi*Le$\n*
*w\&e
X\&e
r
N r cO^ ^efO0tteVd**  c  rrtlvCe
*AO*eOpP
I did it.
w'mC Army ROTCintwojtars.
Fve learned to lead. To do that youve got to know a lot about people.
________fen m flH HH But first you have to know yourself. Army
Mike Currie talks about his cadet experience. ROTC helped me to do just that.
With the kind of experience you get in Anny ROTC youre qualified 
for any career, whether its military or civilian. And Army ROTC provides for both 
active duty status with a starting salary of over $11,300 or reserve status (Active 
Duty for Training) while employed in the civilian community.I did it. And you can, too. Army ROTC in two wars.
Call:
Maj Rivers 
621-2600 Ext 281/2
01

---------------------------------------------------

page 10 TARTANFebruary 8, 1977
Middle States Critical of H&SS
continued from page 7
In conclusion, the team had this to 
say about SUPA: It is the distinct im
pression of the team that the time has 
come for SUPA to move more sharply 
and clearly into the national arena. Better 
attention to its press, more executive 
seminar programs, reaching out far beyond 
the immediate Pittsburgh neighborhood, 
perhaps even the formation of a national 
advisory panel might be indicated. Good 
things, particularly things as good as SUPA, 
should be widely known.
UNIVERSITY PLANNING
The planning process of the University, 
in the words of the team report, is one of 
the best done and most disorganized func
tions at Carnegie-Mellon University. Cen
tral to the planning is the president himself 
who stays extremely informed of all events 
around campus. Planning is very much the 
job of the president and a few other mem
bers of the administration. The system is 
not to be faulted for its operative capa
bilities, but rather for its extreme vulner
ability. If, for example, the school under
went drastic administrative changes, the 
planning process as it now stands would be 
crippled for a period of time. The recom
mendation of the team is that the imme
diacy. good information and speed of the 
present system should be retained, while a 
far more structured planning process 
should be introduced. It should begin with 
the individual departments and continue 
through to the president. The team made 
the following recommendations to the 
administration. Stating that it is ironic 
that in an institution famous for its 
quantitative skills, the collection, the 
manipulation, and interpretation of plan
ning data is extraordinarily weak, the
team recommends that the Office of Data 
Collection be restructured. Without hard 
data and any system of plugging it into 
planning, planning is likely to be merely 
eclectic. The second recommendation is 
that the channels of communication be
tween the students and faculty and the 
administration be opened. They need not 
be overly structured, but they should 
exist. The third recommendation is that 
the president exercise his authority to 
help the individual colleges articulate 
themselves within the university.
The words of the report on this matter 
illuminated this great problem. It was the 
general impression of the team that at 
times Carnegie-Mellon University looked 
like medieval France. There is no reason 
for the intermittently hostile relationships 
which seem to exist between GSIA and 
SUPA. and in fact there are many reasons 
for those relationships being cordial and 
collaborative. While there seems to be 
good, frank and free flow of information 
and cooperation within any given faculty, 
the schools of the university are 
extraordinarily turf conscious. The only 
neutral body in all of this is the president 
and his senior administrators. The team 
feels, therefore, that this is an area where 
the president's authority could be strongly 
employed.
In addition, the team strongly urged 
the president to continue to be the main 
source of emphasis on education for citi
zenship, and on ethical and value orienta
tions in the work of the university. In a 
highly technical institution with severely 
drawn boundary lines, the only major 
source for this kind of accent upon value 
and human conduct may be the president. 
This essential function must continue to 
be performed.
THE GRILL*
LUNCHEON SPECIALS
THIS WEEK
11:00 AM-2:00 PM
TARTAN Grill Specials
WEDNESDAY 9th
Tartanburger, Fries,
Medium Soft Drink.............................................99
THURSDAY 10th
Hamburger, Fries,
Med. Soft Drink..................................................68
FRIDAY 11th
Fish Sandwich, Onion
Rings, Med. Soft Drink......................................90
MONDAY 14th
Triple Decker, Fries,
Medium Soft Drink.............................................99
TUESDAY 15th
Two Hot Dogs.
Medium Soft Drink ..............................................77
UNDERGRADUATE LIBERAL ARTS
The College of Humanities and Social 
Sciences was an area of great concern for 
the commission, as the following statement 
attests.
At no place is the university's compartmentalization of knowledge more 
evident than in its dealings with the 
School of Humanities and Social Sci
ences. It may also he that this is the one 
place where lack of a strong faculty 
infrastructure, and the absence of facul
ty input into decision making may have 
its worst effects. The current situation is 
one of considerable disarray. The social 
sciences are like amiable fungi, they 
grow where they land. And they ha\'e 
landed all over campus. The humanities, 
very few of them and deprived of fine 
arts, huddle in considerable confusion 
under an institutional title which bears 
little relation to the reality it pretends 
to describe.
Since a liberal arts college is an essential 
element of the university and indeed essen
tial to the whole idea of education, these 
problems must be addressed by the admin
istration. The team notes that as far as a 
liberal arts college goes, CMU suffers from 
not having one'' and suggests that a high 
priority be placed on the improvement of 
H&SS. A real school of this type could 
share the presidents duty of providing 
education in value and citizenship. In the 
words of the commission, it would be his 
logical ally in working towards Whiteheads 
dream of a university engaged principally 
in the making of citizens.
ADDITIONAL AREAS OF CONCERN
The Middle States report also com
mented on a few other areas of the univer
sity including the library facilities and 
undergraduate liberal arts. The team cited 
CMUs library system as the single weakest 
element of the university. The schools 
primary concern with the library seems to 
be whether it can support itself financially. 
Accordingly, the library has been allocated 
a steadily decreasing amount of money (in 
real dollars) over the past few years. Two 
chronic problems have resulted from this 
practice. First, the staff of the library 
systems is far too small, despite the fact 
that the few existing members are generally 
excellent. The second problem is that the 
collection of the libraries has many serious 
gaps, particularly in the humanities and the 
sciences. The fact that the collections of 
such a prestigious institution are inade
quate is an educational crime.
Two areas in which the control of the 
government of the school appears to have 
broken down are the department of Ad
ministrative and Managerial Sciences (A& 
MS) and general undergraduate education. 
The principle symptom reported to the 
team by the students of A&MS was the dis
content which the students feel with in
struction by too many teaching assistants. 
The commission issued the following re
commendation: CMU needs to clarify the 
function of the school and the size it 
should aim at. A&MS seems caught be
tween increased enrollment and no parallel 
increase in faculty budget. A second prob
lem which puzzled the team was that no 
one seems to be concerned with under
graduate students. There is an apparent 
absence of any administrative concern or 
planning for them.
ms
II
A. B. COFFEEHOUSE
presents
GENE CORBIN
and
DAVE ADOMITOS
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 12th 
9:30 P.M. 
WHERRETT ROOM

---------------------------------------------------

A

---------------------------------------------------

page 12 TARTANFebruary 8, 1977
FOLIO INTERVIEW:MALCOM DAVIES
AND CONTINUOUS STUDIES
interview by Jeff Zaslow
Carnegie Mellon is now making available a de
gree in Continuous Studies. The major is being 
formed with the cooperation of all the CMU de
partments. It is expected to be offered in Fall 
1977.
FOLIO recently interviewed Malcom Davies, 
newly hired director of the program. Mr. Davies, 
a former Supermarket clerk, was cordial and hos
pitable, but wore a paper bag over his head during 
most of the interview.
FOLIO: Mr. Davies. Could you please explain 
the function of this program?
It's basically functionless. However; 
the degree could prove useful if the 
job market becomes very tight in
23 years.
Why 23 years?
Well, as you know, it's a multi-major. It 
requires 23 years of full-time study. 
That's quite a bit of time to spend in 
the learning process. What is the cost 
of the Continuous Studies Program? 
We're giving'a 300 dollar discount each 
year on the cost of tuition. For the 23
Davies:
FOLIO:
Davies:
FOLIO:
Davies:
TARTAN FOLIO
FEBRUARY 8,1977/ ISSUE SIX: DEPARTMENTAL HASSLES
EDITOR DAVID G. ROUSSOS 
ASSISTANT EDITOR JEFFERY -LLOYD ZASLOW 
ARTDIRECTOR VICTOR IA BOND HI LL 
CONTRIBUTING ARTISTS ANDY EPSTEIN
VIVIAN KERSTEIN
COVERDESIGN OF HASSLES BY TORY HILL
years, the full price comes to about 
107,000 dollars. The books will tend to 
be a problem, though, because the CS 
major will have courses in every depart
ment. He will average about 975 dollars 
in books per semester. We're thinking 
of allowing the CS major a full day in FOLIO:
the book store before any other stu
dents are admitted. Davies:
FOLIO: What are some other stipulations of the
CS program? FOLIO:
Davies: Well, the CS student will be required to
live in Mudge for the entire 23 years. Davies:
Also, he/she will have to be on the 21 
meal plan.
FOLIO: For'what reason?
Davies: Well, we'd like to make as much money
as possible from our students, and 
that's a good way to do it.
FOLIO: Will there be any grade average that the
CS student will be required to main- FOLIO:
tain? Or will he just be asked to main
tain his sanity only? Davies:
Davies: No, we'd be satisfied with a 2.5. Any
QPA under that will cause the student
to be asked to repeat the program from 
the beginning. So, if in the 18th year, a 
student earns a 2.1, he'd begin repeat
ing his courses from year one. It might 
sound tough, but we're looking for a 
student who can take it and make it. 
How many units will the CSer be carry
ing?
73 per semester the first 22 years, and 
75 per semester the last year.
Could you quickly outline the first ten 
years of the program?
Of course. The first year is devoted to 
some architecture, a good bit of Eng
lish, two Design courses, a metallurgy 
elective, a chemical engineering course, 
two computer courses, a course in cos
tumes, modern day theater, three 
courses from SUPA, and 15 electives. 
The Second Year. . .
Excuse me Mr. Davies, but that seems 
like alot for two Semesters of study. 
If you think that's alot, you should see 
the 12th year. We're afraid that the 
average CS major will develop an ulcer
SDC Films Spring 77
FEBRUARY
12 - My Fair Lady 
19 - Emmanuelle II 
26 - All About Eve/Pretty Maids All In A Row
MARCH
5 - Mahogany 
12 - Westside Story 
19 - Conrack 
26 - Charly
APRIL
16 - Horsefeathers/Monkey Business*23 - Badnews Bears 
30 - Sunday Bloody Sunday
DH2210
6,8:30,11 
FREE
with
CMU I.D.

---------------------------------------------------

February 8, 1977TARTAN-page 13
Jliiltl Ht li (' ,1 c ,1 -> -
Malcom Davies asCMU's new CS director"We'll keep 'em learnin' for the full 23 years. The CS student"We're hoping that some students will take the initiative and overload."
The Davies controversy rages on, as the man who hopes to shape the future of Carnegie-Mellon students ignores his critics, who ask,"How far can a man go with a bag over his head?"
from the schedule we have prepared for ready is a disservice to our community,
him that year. But still, we're hoping We'll keep 'em learnin' for the full 23
that some students will take the initia- years.
FOLIO: So it's possible then, that a CS student 
could marry and have a child attend 
and graduate from CMU before he or 
she graduates?
tive and over load.
FOLIO: Will there be any on the job training? 
Davies: No, we feel that to send the students
out on the job market before they are
Davies: Probably. And if a CS major is a part
time student, it would take him ap
proximately 59 years years to complete 
all the required studies. That's enough 
time to have prandchildren.
FOLIO: The question arises as to membership
continued on page 16

---------------------------------------------------


page 14 -TARTAN-February 8, 1977
In a recent survey, we asked various 
What do you think
by David Roussos M 1 ^art by Andy Epstein KJLKJJ^z vAI JL
5. D. Meyer that, Thistle printer
You're asking me about problems? I'll tell you 
about problems! I have this one fellow, a nice 
boy, who's the son of a close friend. A very nice 
fellow. Dress well, is neat and clean, and is very 
clever. You know that joke about Carter and the 
large peanut, he's the one who made it up. It's 
his joke! And who am I to argue with that kind of 
creativity. He's careful, though, and doesn't joke 
around too much. Some of the guys who work 
for me, I don't know why I put up with them! 
Henry works with the ink and thinks it's funny. If 
you ask me I think he's a little funny. You know 
about girls getting their pigtails dipped into ink
wells, Henry knows. Only no one working for me 
wears a pigtail! In fact almost no one working for 
me is a girl. So one day before lunch, Henry goes 
around to all the guys with a pail of ink, MY ink, 
and dips their hand in it. Why I didn't dip him in 
the ink I'll never know! Henry, Henry, such a 
clown! And strange, very strange. Maybe that's 
why I didn't shoot right then and there. Who 
knows what a bullet would do to Henry?! But 
this other fellow, such a nice boy, not like alot 
of the people here. Like I said, neat and clever. 
Only he worries too much. Don't worry", I tell 
him. "I'm the printer, I do the worrying." But he 
tells me "The pages aren't printing straight" or 
"This is cropped too much". This kind of concern 
I don't need. Did I ever say I didn't like a little 
apathy now and then? And you ask me about 
your problems. If you want to really see problems 
I'll send Henry over with the ink. You don't 
know the half of it.
William "Fritzwillie" Rothsoche,
High School freshman
I don't know too much about departments, most
ly just pinball. Do they have a department for 
that? I guess they would, I mean every time we 
bust a machine it gets fixed, don't it? Like we 
were shootin' the other day, there was four of 
us, there was Chimp, Phil, Fat Man, and me. Fat 
Man don't usually shoot pinball, he's usually 
wantin' to shoot pool but he can't here. Jeez, like 
we went up to get some sticks to play a couple 
weeks ago ant this chick who looked like Quashnick's sister tells us we have to have some col
lege thing, a card, I.D. that's what she wanted. 
Fat Man sez, "What are you, slappin' it?!" She 
was, too. Any way, that's why Fat Man is shoot
in' pinball and not pool. I think he's not too into 
pinball cause he's weak with the flippers, and he 
gets really pissed off when he drains. That's why 
I don't like to shoot behind him 'cause then I al
ways get the tilts. Well, we were playin' and 
Chimp shot, and I shot, then the Fat Man shot. 
Me and Chimp had gotten about 50.000 on the 
first two balls so all we needed was 15,000 more 
for another game. Fat Man shot and got about 10 
points and I swear I don't know what he was do
ing, but he just drained and kicked that machine 
so hard that it knocked over two other machines. 
One of them had four games on it but the guys 
who lost them didn't bother Fat Man 'cause he's 
big, that's why we call him Fat Man. Nothing 
happened to our machine, in fact Fat Man hit it 
so hard that he changed it to read around 90,000! 
When Phil went to shoot we were psyched but 
like the balls weren't coming out. They were, 
they were gone! I don't know what happened 
but they weren't there and when we came back 
a couple days later the machine was fine and the 
balls were all there. So I guess then they must 
have a department for pinball.
John F. Osborne, Admissions Office
Departmental hassles? Ah, come on. What 
departmental hassles?! This school is solid, it's 
solid as the pillars of Mellon Institute. Yessir. 
Why I've been here for nine years and it's never 
been so good, not that it's ever been bad under
stand me. It's the school of the future. Yessir, 
the future! You take for example this cold 
weather we've been having. Well know, it was 
bad. Really bad! I've lived in this area for about 
12 years and not one winter has matched this 
one. And what happened? University of Pitts
burgh, Duquesne University, those girls colleges. . 
all closed. Yessir, at one time or another they had 
to close down, it was just too cold. But not this 
school. No sir! We closed down a little early on 
one occasion and opened up a little late on an
other, but we were open. Open on those days and 
every day. And do you know why? Because we 
are the school of the future! The future! Why you 
can't expect these local schools to be able to 
operate the way we do. We're a well known 
school and have a reputation to keep up. And this 
is first hand knowledge. My wife has a few rela
tives outside of the state who say they read about 
this school all the time. Do you realize we were 
written up in Sports Illustrated one time?Yessir, 
it's the reputation. That's why we still heat this 
school with coal. Coal, that's where the difference 
between a local school and a school of the future 
lies. We kept our students toasty warm. After all, 
you can't think too well while you're shivering, 
shaking your brain and such. We keep them 
warm, they think better. Then they come back 
after they graduate and figure out things, like 
with coal, that make us the school of the future. 
It's like money in the bank. Yessir, you just can't 
go wrong. We've got no problems here. No prob
lems, no hassles, because we're the school of the 
future.

---------------------------------------------------

February 8, 1977TARTANpage 15
people, 
of the present 
mental hasslesin Carnegie-Mellon?
Sarah TUdman Linder, philanthropist
Oh my, well I suppose everybody has their prob
lems. It's such a lovely school, though, and my 
husband loved it so. That's my late husband. The 
late Thomas Julius Linder. Yes, he graduated 
there in 1929, just before the market crashed. 
He looked so handsome in those robes, but that 
was quite a while ago. We were both so young 
then. Tom never forgot that school either. Why 
we've been donating funds since Tom made his 
first million in '33. Of course that was before 
Roosevelt took office. Any way, I can't see 
how there could be very many problems with de
partments. There were hardly any more that 
three when Tom was there. But I have faith in 
that school. Things will work out. I'm certainly 
not going to cease in presenting the Annual 
Thomas Julius Linder for Outstanding Fiscal Ap
titude. Tom's last wish was for me to set up this 
award, he was always thinking of others. Tom 
loved that school, and I'm going to love it to, 
right up to the end. Tom would have wanted it 
that way.
Wi/ford "Girts" Horridge, class of 1909
Doesn't surprise me one bit. Not one bit. That's 
all change ever has and ever will bring about. 
When you change things, you're going to have 
problems. Why back about 70 years ago we didn't 
have any of these kinds of problems. We just 
worked and studied hard, not like some of these 
lazy hippies you can find at Tech now. They're 
not just at Tech either, they're all over. I should 
know, I have five of them for grandchildren. Yes, 
we worked good and hard. We played hard too, but 
clean. The things you can see these kids today do
ing right on the street would never be found back 
when I went to school. We didn't need all that 
kind of stuff to have a good time. And we sure 
had some times. I remember once Earl Halber 
took us out to his Papy's farm which was about 
30 miles east of Tech. Earl had told me and the 
fellows, there were about four of us, that his Papy 
made his own whiskey, and by gum he did! It 
was the best I'd ever tasted. Well considering that 
whiskey always tastes better when made in quanity I had assumed that there was a fair quanity of 
whiskey some where on that farm. And I was 
right. We had a great time. And after we had been 
drinking for a while, Earl caught an owl and 
soaked its tail in kerosene. We were hooping and 
screaming while Earl lit the bird's tail and I 
swear I have never seen such a sight. That owl was 
burning brighter than anything I'd ever seen and 
just flying around, lighting the sky. I'll never 
forget what a great time we had that night. You 
won't find that today, though. Kids today just 
like to swear and sleep with each other. But I 
suppose you just have to expect things like that 
to happen.
A! Fletcher, maintainance
What do I think of the hassles here in the departmehts? Let's see, uh, hassles huh? Well it's kinda 
hard for me to say anything 'cause first of all I 
don't make it a habit of talking bad about some
body if I'm goin' to be doin' it behind their back. 
Ya know what I mean? And second of all I work 
with Jack and Jack's the one who finds out about 
the job we're supposed to do. So ya see, Jack's 
the one who's mixin' with all the pomp and cir
cumstance there. You would probably get a real 
inside scoop with Jack, 'cause I'll tell you,he's up 
on it. And ya see, he has ways of figuring things 
out. Like a few months ago, for an example. We 
was workin ' in Dorherty, me and Jack, and there 
was this office we had to clean. Now Jack told me 
that we was cleanin' it up 'cause some guy got 
the can. Now wait a minute. . .let's see. Jeez, I 
can't remember what he was teachin' but it was a 
regular kinda thing. I mean it wasn't like some of 
the faggot stuff they got here. What he taught 
would make you an honest livin'. Jeez, I'll be 
damned though if I can remember what it was. 
Anyways, Jack figured it out 'cause he was talkin' 
to Ida and Ida works in Warner where the hot 
shots hang out. Well Ida was working on the sixth 
floor doin' what ever she does and was doin' it 
outside you-know-who's office. Now Ida's been 
working here for longer than me and I've been 
here since '67 and she sez that every time she's 
heard this singin' come out of you-know-who's 
office somebody's gotten canned. Well she heard 
the singin' and told Jack, and damn if we weren't 
cleaning that room out in less than a week. But 
you should really ask Jack about it 'cause like I 
said he knows more about it and besides I don't 
make a habit of talking about people like that. 
What's got me wonderin' is that Jack told me that 
Ida heard the singin' again two days ago, only this 
time there was dancing, too.

---------------------------------------------------

page 16 TARTANFebruary 8, 1977
Idi1td.I ,V;I *  laj
bruay or
*ur in e-xce
<S ;-:Vsa-Vs; ;lov Ioo mg** 
* fei*tr*d Trf*mrtt p*. J
& e L>s mumHEM UN . /I 
............COOLER . . ?
&UMETM ..... LONGE .. . 
lln- vntvmH'T nng;;f ucn,I; ml;n ;g!,
"lu*> oaovt INNO SMUM. 
l l'l<V't tt t -tfpl :es-cl In;
"***W Jk H
ttf
********?s teMe"i .'ff-fff vi 
** Ww with * * *lve com,*
**#!****s **t *uu ye I ihlf ft#*. 
*tf for Jdf
aPORATKHI-S Oikton ftt*>. Plain, IH. WOll
^EW SECRET FORMU
$!p* Hlw 1 : * ? i * pit1
 - " SBSWMHHBBI - '  v
| ^ p f' \ V 7 v *Were surprised that they dont claim it cures cancer.
The makers of STP Oil Treatment make it 
sound like a fountain of youtw for old cars and a 
super ton ic for new cars.
They claim it does everything from protecting 
engine parts to reducing heat, noise, friction, and 
wear.
They say it's the racers edge. Whatever 
that means. Well, heres what STP Oil Treatment 
realfy is.
Its a can of thick goo that makes the oil its 
added to thicker.
But if you want a thicker oil, you can just buy 
a heavier grade of oil (like 40 or 50 weight) in the 
first place. Or if you want a multi-viscosity oil 
(like 10W-30), you can just buy that, too. And 
save the expense of STP. For most cars under 
almost ail driving conditions, the right motor oil 
is ail youll ever need for your cars crankcase.
The very nicest thing we can say about STP Oil 
Treatment is tha* it's probably a waste of money.
But there are less nice things, too.
STP can change the proportions of chemical 
additives (detergent, anti rust, etc.) already for
mulated in most motor oils, and it can make cold 
weather starts harder.
Mercedes Benz even says it could invalidate 
their new car warranties.
Many motor oil manufacturers, including 
Kendall, Quaker State, Pennzoil and Valvoline, 
advise you not to use additives like STP.
Even Consumer Reports (July 1971) says you 
dont need STP. The makers of STP must have 
forgotten to mention all that. And what do you 
have on the other side? The racers edge. 
Whatever that means.
A Public Interest Advertisement from the 
Center for Auto Safety 
1223 Dupont Circle Bldg., Wash., D.C. 20036
Produced by Public Communication, Inc. 
Washington, D.C.
Davies:
FOLIO:
Davies:
FOLIO:
Davies:
FOLIO:
Davies:
in fraternal organizations.
We'll allow it. However, we recommend 
that if a CS major should become an of
ficer in a fraternity, he should not hold 
it for more than 15 years.
How strict is the admissions policy for 
the CS program?
Well, we're going to most of the.big 
high schools in the country to recruit. 
Then there's the 45 page application, 
the portfolio showing, the audition, in
terview, and Marine Corps physical. We 
want to make sure our candidates can 
hack it.
What will the audition consist of?
The applicant will be asked to recite 
lines from Arthur Miller and George 
Bernard Shaw, alternately; play three 
wind instruments and either piano or 
harp; and improvise a three hour mono
logue on a subject given by the auditioner.
What will the applicant be asked to 
have in his/her portfolio?
A design for a 16 story hospital with 
walk in closets and every room having 
at least one window; three paintings 
that were displayed at any major art 
festival in the Western Hemisphere; 
seven sculpture pieces, one of which 
should be of John or Robert Kennedy 
and a full length play based on the ad
ventures of a prostitute and/or assem
bly line worker.
This long application; what will it con
tain?
Eleven essays and 1109 fill-in-theblanks.
What percentage of your applicants do 
you plan to accept?
As many as can afford it. Probably 
about 85%.
Will the University offer much in the 
way of loans, scholarships or grants? 
Yes. A good chunk of that anonymous 
multi-million donation will go towards 
supporting the CS Program.
What kind of chunk?
Enough that you could call it a chunk. 
So, you aren't allowed to release the 
exact figures of the chunk?
That's correct. I'm sorry. Those are my 
orders.
Mr. Davies When a CS student finally 
graduates, there would be many things 
you could call him. Engineer, Actor, 
Artist, Architect, Musician, Mathmetician, Historian, Writer, Computer 
Scientist, Public Policy Analyist, Bio
technician, Philosopher, Modern Lang
uage expert, and Artist. What will you 
call him. An Old Man?
That's clever. An old Man. No. . . He'll 
have a Bachelor for life degree.
Do you guarantee a CS graduate a job? 
No, but we guarantee him a seat at the 
Homecoming game.
Do you think Continuous Studies will 
be successful?
I hope so, though for my own position 
I'm not too worried. I have a good 
contract.
How long is your contract?
Till the first class graduates.
Thank You Mr. Davies.
Applications for the College of Continuous 
Studies may be picked up any day on the second 
floor of Warner Hall. 
FOLIO:
Davies:
FOLIO:
Davies:
FOLIO:
Davies:
FOLIO:
Davies:
FOLIO:
Davies:
FOLIO:
Davies:
FOLIO:
Davies:
FOLIO:
Davies:
FOLIO:
Davies:
FOLIO:
TARTAN EDITORIAL BOARD ELECTIONS
On March 9 in room 11 Skibo, the TARTAN will hold elections for the 
following positions :
Editor in Chief 
News Editor 
Entertainment Editor 
Folio Editor 
Sports Editor 
Photography Editor
Candidates for Editor in Chief must be members of the TARTAN staff. All other Editorial positions 
are open to any CMU student. A member of the TARTAN staff is any one who has written two ar
ticles in the last four issues of the TARTAN, or anyone whose name is listed in the masthead. All 
members of the TARTAN staff are eligible to vote.
Those interested should inquire at the TARTAN office. Skibo 52.
*

---------------------------------------------------

Robin Hood Exposed.
In the pages of literature there once lived a man by the name of 
Robin Hood. He lived in a place called Sherwood Forest with a band 
of Merry Men. Or, as they were known to local townspeople, Oddballs.
Robin and his men were different. Which is why they were forced 
to live in a drafty forest. They preferred to wear green tights instead of 
regular trousers. That explains why they walked so funny on cold days. 
It may also Be the reason they were called die Merry Men. But thats another story.
Over the years the social life in Sherwood Forest tapered off due to the opening of 
several singles pubs on the other side of Nottingham. So Robin and his men amused 
themselves by shooting arrows at trees, eating with their fingers, and telling each other 
Knock, Knock jokes.
From time to time they stole from the rich and gave to the poor. Mainly because 
their Public Relations man thought it would be good for their image.
Robin and the Merry Men were forced to drink beer with all their meals ever since 
the Nottingham Dairy milkman had been rerouted around Sherwood Forest. After a few 
months of nothing to drink but beer, they needed a change. And understandably so.
After months of continuous experimenting and tasting, Robin 
and the Merry Men finally developed a delicious and very drinkable 
formula. At the conclusion of an extensive final taste 
test one Saturday night, Little John was quoted as 
saying, Its lighter, frothier, and goes down a 
lot easier than regular beer, without leaving 
a heavy aftertaste. Pass me another batch
Now, 600 years later, Robin Hood
Cream Ale is available by the case at beer 
distributors and in carryout 6-packs from your 
local tavern. So go ahead and enjoy it at home, 
at your neighborhcxxl tavern, or while youre 
sitting around on a tree stump.
Robin Hood Cream Ale.
It's more fun than a barrel of beer.

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

em ab presents
maynard
carnegie music hall 
fridayffebruary 11,8pm
, . V;..- ,:s
*
'
S -
v'- %4ei--t ? UN   .
r

---------------------------------------------------

ENTERTAINMENT______________WRIGHT'S FORMULA WORKS ON SMILES
by David C. Lucas
Early in 1975, Gary Wright, ex-leader of 
the band Spooky Tooth, began studio 
work on his third solo album. The bold 
concept of this album, entitled The Dream 
Weaver, was its almost exclusive use of 
keyboard and percussion instruments. The 
single release of the title song started the 
albums climb up the charts. The subse
quent release of Love is Alive (a cross
over onto the Soul charts,) boosted The 
Dream Weaver album to well over the 
platinum (1,000,000 units sold) record 
mark. The follow-up album, The Light 
of Smiles, released last month, is a fairly 
good attempt by Wright to retain his 
position in the rock music field.
For the new album, Wrights band con
sists of Dave Foster and Peter Reilich (who 
replaced Bobby Lyle of the Dream Weaver 
sessions,) on keyboards, Jim Keltner and 
Art Wood (replacing Andy Newmard) on 
drums and percussion, and three back-up 
vocalists.
For the second consecutive time, the 
tide of Wrights album is taken from the 
teachings of Paramahansa Yogananda of 
the Self-Realization Fellowship. One cut,
I Am The Sky, features a saccharine-voiced 
waif, chanting I am the sky, mother, to 
a background of winds and notes. As often 
happens with mixes of rock and religion, 
this tune is too contrived for words. Its 
only salvation is its brevity (40 sec.).
In the enormous success of the song 
Dream Weaver, Wright learned a formula
for making a hit song. It is this: The lis
teners attention is grabbed with futuristic 
synthesizer noises. Next, the first verse is 
sung in a falsetto voice with only organ 
accompaniment. The chorus follows, with 
the sudden inclusion of a full repertoire 
of keyboard and percussion instruments. 
The second verse, second chorus, third 
verse and third chorus come next, also 
using numerous instruments.
Seven out of eleven songs on The Light 
of Smiles use this formula, with only slight 
variations. The title song follows the pat
tern except that it includes a short instru
mental section. This love song displays 
Wrights talent at vocal overdubbing and 
some cutesy lullabye organ.
Time Machine differs from the formula 
in its addition of a vocal bridge. The tune 
fails to avoid the futuristic synthesizer 
treatment that the title suggests. It tells 
the age-old story of boy-nieets-girl-meetscosmos. Who Am 1 chops the formula 
down to two choruses and one lengthy 
verse.
Water Sign uses the Dream Weaver for
mat most effectively. In this ode to an in
decisive Aquarian, Wright proves that he 
can, indeed, dispense with the electric bass 
and guitar which seem to be a rock staple. 
His piano playing is bold and exciting, and 
two synthesizer solos provide interest. The 
most pleasant harmonies of the album 
occur on this song with Wright's overdubs 
of his own voice.
A piano accompanies his solo on the 
first verse of Child of Light. The keyboards
only rule is broken as soft violins add an 
Electric Light Orchestra sound. A short 
vocal postscript puts on the finishing 
touches.
Phantom Writer begins with the sounds 
of nature. As with Child of Light, the 
Weaver formula is changed by piano 
accompaniment at the beginning and by 
the addition of violin punctuation. Sedate 
vocal echos and the continued use of over
dubbing make for an excellent chorus.
The final song using the Dream Weaver
format is Empty Inside. It puts the chorus 
at the beginning. Ecclesiastic musical 
touches give it an appealing Catholic 
tinge. In fact, the words, I was so empty 
inside/Til you came into my life, suggest 
that the love song could be a hymn.
The remaining songs display the funkier 
side of Gary Wrights music to excellent 
effect. Synthesized bass lines are powercharged and soulful back-up vocals are pro
vided by Gary and Lorna Wright, David 
Pomeranz and Bettye Sweet. In Are You 
Weepin , Wright shows that what he lacks 
in verbal eloquence, he makes up for in his 
rhythmic arrangement of words. Synthe
sizer fills the void which the lack of guitar 
creates.
Silent Fury is a musical melodrama. The 
story is a sort of Rich Man, Poor Man, cen
tering on the stabbing of a woman by her 
sister. This song displays superb use of key
boards to produce a full arsenal of instru
mental sounds. As in Are You Weepin, 
Wright dispenses with the Cat-Stevensminus-grit falsetto and lets fly with a force
ful rock voice.
The final rock6r is the highly charged 
Im Alright. This cut shows some gospel 
influences. Since synthesizer playing 
usually tends to sound slurred, Wright 
proves his manual dexterity on the piano.
For those of you who adored the song, 
Dream Weaver, Gary Wrights new album 
will be a pleasure to listen to. But those 
who didnt give a damn should still find 
some very good music on The Light of 
Smiles.EMMY LOU HARRIS' LUXURY LINER
by David Doremus
Country rock is not a recent develop
ment, The Byrds Sweetheart of the Rodeo 
was probably the first country-rock al
bum, released just before Chris Hillman 
and Gram Parsons left them in 1968. It 
featured a lot of pedal steel guitar and 
country vocal harmonics, the first serious 
attempt to adapt the country idiom to 
rock music. In 1969 Parsons and Hillman 
formed the Flying Burrito Bros., dedicated 
to spreading the country gospel. At first 
they combined a hefty amount of folkrock with the country styles but as time 
went on they moved towards pure country, 
playing songs by Merle Haggard . This gave 
Kleinow more exposure on pedal steel. The 
group enlisted former members of the Dil
lards and other traditional Blue-grass bands 
for this style shift. In 1971 Hillman heard a 
new singer at the Cellar Door in Washing
ton D. C. He was so impressed by her sing
ing that he invited her to join the band. 
Unfortunately, the Burritos were in the
middle of a personnel upheaval and noth
ing ever solidified. Hillman did, however, 
introduce his discovery to Gram Parsons, 
who was working on a solo album after 
leaving the Burritos. The singer was Emmylou Harris and this was her First big break 
after five years of playing clubs. It was all 
she needed.
Harris did two albums wjth Parsons and 
lived with him before his sudden death in 
the fall of 1973. After Gram died his re
cord company signed Harris to a contract. 
She released Pieces of the Sly in 1975. It 
hit No. 1 on the country charts and Elite 
Hotel did the same a year later. Now its 
1977 and Luxury Liner has a good chance 
of doing it again.
The new album is more of a rocker than 
her previous two. Emmylou Harris describ
ed it as a little more kick-ass than the 
others. Who should know better than she? 
She seems to be trying to reach more of 
the cross-over audience between rock and 
country, this should do as well with the 
rock fans as with the country listeners.
Emmylou Harris voice is sweet, emotional 
but not excessively, sliding between notes, 
cracking with feeling but never getting out 
of control. She has a universal quality in 
her voice that is intensely personal, one 
that bridges customary musical barriers. It 
would be a hard heart that could turn a 
deaf ear to such beautiful singing.
The only inadequacy of this album is 
failing common to most country rock and 
a large percentage of straight country mu
sic. This album, like both types of music, is 
a touch too slow. Each side starts off up
beat and gradually slows down towards the 
final song. If you arent used to country 
music and its preoccupation with the mel
ancholy, it might be boring the first couple 
of times through. Eventually, it grows on 
you, creating its own mood. After several 
listenings you may be tempted to put it on 
a continuous tape and vegetate, surrounded 
by one of the purest voices in contempo
rary country.
Emmylou Harris has always had an af
fection for Gram Parsons songs and this
time around she uses two fine ones. The 
title track, Luxury Liner from Parsons 
Safe at Home album, is a fast, rather sad 
country rocker about loneliness. Its a good 
foot stomping song, with a fine guitar 
break by Albert Lee in the quintessential 
electric country style made popular by the 
Burrito Bros. The other Parsons tune is 
She, from his solo album GP, a slow ballad 
with strong religious overtones about a Mis
sissippi Delta girl. Its the most emotionally 
intense song on the record, and has some 
fine pedal steel work by Hank DeVito.
The other songs were written by a vari
ety of people, ranging from A. P. Carter to 
Chuck Berry. Cest la Vie is an old Berry 
favorite and Harris does an excellent cover 
featuring Ricky Skaggs on lead fiddle. 
Hello stranger by A. P. Carter is an oldstyle question and answer song sung as a 
duet between Harris and Fayssoux Sterling. 
Its a very basic bluegrass tune and builds 
to a nice finale with their voices in har
mony and an instrumental ensemble chorus 
with solos on fiddle, mandolin and dobro. 
Tulsa Queen is the only Emmylou Harris 
original on this record, but its proof that 
she can write as well as sing. Its a rather 
sentimental train song with the inevitable 
lonesome harmonica and driving pedal 
steel. Poncho and Lefty by Towres van 
Zandt is one of the highlight.- of the first 
side. Her voice was never better than on 
this tale of hypocrisy and outlaws. There 
is some nice harmony by Rodney Crowell 
and Albert Lee that blends beautifully with 
Emmylou Harris lead. Also, Lee sneaks in 
a few nice guitar licks when you least ex
pect them.
This record has Dolly Parton singing 
some harmony and Mike Auldridge with 
some beautiful dobro work on Making Be
lieve, a sweet disillusioned romance. It 
would be easy to fill three pages of news
print just describing each song and the vari
ous performers, but the best thing to do is 
listen to the record. Its got something for 
everyone and not one bad song. Even if 
you dont like country music, this album 
just might sneak up and grab you when 
youre not looking.
\f

---------------------------------------------------

February 8, 1977TARTAN-page 21
NEvu Decrees s;c) conn t tiuedp
/''-AMD LAS TL)^ I KoW 
c-o^FER 0(4 bg6ET r.
ag78WhSlrvrn? pdE CviCT8,1 197V99 Fo lmNm6C
10 Bcheur r FR02BJ 
AeCTlCOLOG'j
_\5u^/774 Currf bldj
<fr "^T    6AZ1MG UT 
ysWo OViea THW \ o\i>H^!WG uje
8 8onugi MU vst
SDC PLANS VALENTINE'S DAY DANCE
by Joanne Kravanja
One of lifes ironies seems to be that 
those who exert the most effort get the 
least recognition. At least this appears io 
be one dilemma of CMUs Student Dorm 
Council. Thought of most often as being a 
governing body simply concerned with 
housing complaints and other such matters, 
SDC is not widely recognized by students 
as being the group responsible for the 
things like color T. V. sets, ping pong 
tables, and pianos in the dorms. The Coun
cil also sponsors various kinds of social 
functions throughout the year. In an at
tempt to make students more aware of 
these events, Social Committee head David 
Wolf recently outlined for the TARTAN 
SDCs plans for the remainder of the 
semester.
Although many projects were mention
ed, special emphasis was placed on the up
coming Valentines Day Dance to be held 
on Saturday, February 12 in the Skibo 
Ballroom. Scheduled to last from 8:30 un
til 12:00, the affair will be semi-formal, 
similar to SDCs successful Homecoming 
Dance. Food will be served buffet style 
between 8:30 and 9:30, during which time 
a crowd of about 350 people is expected. 
Entertainment for the evening will be pro
vided by Sugar Cane, the rock-disco band 
that performed at the Freshman Orienta
tion Dance last September.
Tickets for the dance will be available 
in advance at the Skibo Information Desk. 
An I. D. must be shown to get a ticket, and 
two tickets may be picked up per I.D. card. 
As is the case with all SDC dances, the tick
ets are free to CMU students. However, as 
one I.D. per ticket will be required for ad
mission during the first hour, those wishing 
to bring someone who is not a CMU stu
dent will have to pay $1.50 for that per
sons admission. After 9:30, any student 
presenting an I.D. will be permitted to
David Wolf, head of SDC's Social Committee
enter regardless of whether or not they 
have a ticket.
According to Wolf, the dance is design
ed in part to provide the non-Greek 
people at CMU with something to do on 
the weekend. Also it gives everyone the 
opportunity to put aside their jeans and tshirts and get dressed up for a change. Its 
probably the first semi-formal Valentines
Day Dance theyve had in ages, he adds.
However, while it may be a unique 
event for Valentines Day at CMU, the 
semi-formal dance is certainly not the first 
of its kind to be held by the SDC. Nor, ac
cording to their plans, will it be the last. In 
addition to Homecoming, the Council 
sponsored a semi-formal at last years 
Spring Carnival. That dance was novel in
that it was held in a large circus tent and 
featured a tuxedo clad 1920s type band 
for entertainment. Were going to do 
something like that again, said Wolf, al
though he was being very secretive as to 
just what this years Carnival plans are. In 
a half promise/half prediction he contin
ued, Good times are coming for Spring 
Carnival. Last year.. .they think that was a 
surprise. They havent seen anything yet.
Wolf was, though, more generous with 
details and information about other Social 
Committee projects. Listing their basic 
functions he explained, We do dances, 
coffeehouses; were in the process of trying 
to get something going in the Grill on a 
regular basis. Also mentioned were plans 
to redo the Morewood Gardens rec room 
and attempt to initiate monthly parties in 
the dorms. Although types of drinks and 
other details would have to be taken care
of by those in the various dormitories, Wolf 
will provide and pay for use of the sound 
system. I want to have one (party) once 
a month in Morewood and one once a 
month on the Hill. If people from these 
areas will contact me either through my 
mailbox or the radio station, Ill be more 
than happy to help them out, he said.
Wolf believes that during the past two 
years SDC has improved the weekend 
life on campus through their dances and 
other affairs. In hearing about some of 
their past efforts, such as a picnic where 
members of the administration handed out 
hot dogs, it would seem that being involv
ed with dreaming up and planning new 
events is as enjoyable as attending them, 
and Wolf encourages student participation. 
Anything that we do is open to all cam
pus students, commuters and non-com
muters. If you want to help us out, thats 
fine. You dont have to be a representative 
to help. *
WHAT it
THIS 'LOVEL7 WEATHER WE'RE- HAVINJ6' 
  15 NjQt A tAERE QUIRK OF ttoTWEf?
NATURE BUT A HARBINGER OF 
VvjlKTHRS TO CorAE ? WHAT \f= OUR 
F-A\R SCHOOL BECAME
Qm-- mem Qt/TPST
IttiMODGE HOOS RESIDE MTS, TA KE frEAftT 1
A6006 SHALL ECb/Af- "SCU.CE HVUSE 
CHALET A WAo STATv.N Idi it.,V;-d:sa
CoMMUTEfcS AND PhF523U51 eN6'AJeC(^6 STUDENTS'
AND SE* EMERywHERE - 6UT KJOT tfERefA 
CEiCnE oun 0E roo fuMBnEB uC pB pEus N 
6oyS FROM 6IKLS * Too wg8mh FinB To care/1da still ciry" s 
OF pnrs&URGrt' r 
n*7 6eo>/af 2 
"da Oort/ ice- \
e>ox" of THE
EmtpP y.Rp we |
L9V9 na C-A\U p 
yjtLL RE\JEL M r 
THE ARCTIC pFHEdcc 
WHAT WITH NITEM I 
HOT ToDDy 1 
Ties AT THE I 
FRAT5, DOG I 
fcACES THRU 6AKER. HALL  IOE F'SHlNG IAJ 
THE PMnCff7
. ?ool ! {I
''"''TGt v F l 'ovLL aecVAAE "TtGt vt N F "
600 p/n not FRoierJ)/ oakicin* rtovN/ER viAy
Gnve WAY T. .nVUVSnAc fcVa:s .F SHvVERvNG"/v, e>/ >/uook'T PJl 
A-TCW"' Wi 
SUE A ?>
*tJTr*OW7?

---------------------------------------------------

EVENTSMUSIC
The Pittsburgh Symphony and prominent 
guest soloists along with the Penn State 
Choir are featured in the Orchestras first 
performances in history of Rachmaninovs 
choral symphony The Bells in Heinz Hall 
concerts February 17, 18 and 19 conduct
ed by Music Director Andre Previn. 
Performances Friday at 8:30 p.m., Satur
day, at 8 p.m. and Sunday at 2:30 p.m. 
highlight appearances by soprano Shelia 
Armstrong; tenor John Alexander, and 
bass-baritone John Shirley-Quirk. In addi
tion to Rachmaninovs The Bells, the 
program includes Haydns Symphony No. 
85 and Brahms Variations on a Theme by 
Haydn.
Although the Pittsburgh Symphonys sea
son concerts have been sold-out by series 
subscription, tickets are often returned to 
the box office for re-sale. Ticket informat
ion is available by phoning the Heinz Hall 
box office at (412)281-5000.
Sheila Armstrong
Carnegie-Mellon Universitys music depart
ment wiH present the Pittsburgh debut of 
the famed Soviet pianist Lazar Berman in a 
benefit recital on Saturday, March 19 at 
8 pjn. i* Carnegie Music Hall, Oakland. 
Admission to the March 19 concert is $8, 
$9.25, $11 or $8.50 for stage seats. Tickets 
can be obtained at Homes (downtown), 
Sears (retail), and all Kaufmanns stores or 
at the CMU Box Office, (412) 621-1326, 
open weekdays from 2 to 5 p.m. Special 
patron tickets are $50.00 ($40.00 tax de
ductible), and can be purchased at the 
CMU Box Office. Proceeds of the concert 
will be used to support the CMU music de
partment scholarship fund.
ART
Forbes Street Gallery, 5200 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, Tuesday thru Sunday: 12-4, 
Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday: 7-9, ExTifiTtorsT Kathy Corff, Louise LoPinto, 
Carole Weitz and Jude Morgenstern will be 
showing Graphic Design, Illustrations and 
Fiber Art.THEATRE
McKeesport Little Theater continues its 
16th Season with the Mystery Dial M for 
Murder. Performances are scheduled every 
Friday and Saturday at 8:30 P.M. with 
Sunday performances at 7:30 P.M. begin
ning Friday, February 25 and running 
every weekend through March 13.
Meredith Willsons lively, award-winning 
musical The Music Man, starring the Young 
Americans, arrives in Heinz Hall for two 
performances on Saturday, February 12, 
at 2:30 p.m. and 8 p.m.
Ranging in age from 15 to 21. the Young 
Americans have toured the United States, 
Europe, Australia, Japan, Taiwan, Singa
pore, Hong Kong, and the Philippines. 
They have also appeared on numerous 
television programs including the Andy 
Williams Show, Hollywoood Palace, the 
Bing Crosby Special and their own special. 
For ticket information about The Music 
Man. ohone 281-5000.
MISC.
The Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre will offer an 
exciting ballet program in Heinz Hall on 
March 18 and 19 at 8:00 p.m., and March 
20 at 2:30 p.m. The diverse evening of 
entertainment will consist of Swan Lake 
Act II, Reverences, Pas de Deux 
Eclatant and Symphony in C.
Good tickets are available for the March 
program and may be purchased at Heinz 
Hall or by calling 281 -0360.
THURSDAY AFTERNOON LUNCHEON FORUM PRESENTSPLAYWRIGHTSWORKSHOP
IN THE WHERRETT ROOM. FEBRUARY 10.1977. AT 12 30
PROFESSOR JIM ROSENBERG & STUDENTS 
DRAMA DEPARTMENT C-MU
BRINGEST THOU LUNCH 8. A FRIEND
ASCENT OF MAN
Tuesday Documentary Film Series 
Film times: 11=30 & 12=30 
FEB Wherrett Room,Skibo
8 The Hidden Structure 
15 The Music of the Spheres 
22 The Starry Messenger
BRING YOUR LUNCH AND A FRIEND

---------------------------------------------------

If Red Cross hadnt trained young 
Lars Alecksen in lifesaving tech
niques, last summer Adam Gauthier 
just might have ended up one 
more drowning statistic. (Adams 
alive and well today, thank you, and 
in the first grade in Manitowoc, 
Wisconsin.) Were not asking 
for medals (Lars is the one who 
deserves those). But we do need 
your continued support Help us 
Because the things we 
do really help. In your own RS|5 
neighborhood. And across | 
America. And the world. MM
The Good Neighbor
A Public Service of this newspaper & The Advertising Council

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTSCMU SKINS BISONS, GATORS
Firm seemed to have a lid on it. Hamer skved to by Bob Firm
Camegie-Mellon didnt disappoint the 
large throng on hand at Skibo Gym for 
Kitchen Band Day in virtually elimi
nating a tough Allegheny squad from the 
Presidents Athletic Conference race in an 
exciting 72-69 victory. The Tartans win 
streak rolled on to ten.
Coach Dave Maloneys pacers held 
tight in the crucial moments to retain their 
perfect 7-0 PAC record and upped their 
overall standing to 12-2.
CMU used big performances from Larry 
DiCicco and Les Harper to turn back the 
Gators furious comeback efforts. DiCicco, 
one of CMUs co-captains, burned the nets 
for 15 second half points, including the 
Tartans first nine in the final period. Har
per displayed his usual extraordinary latein-the-game talents with four important 
hoops and several key rebounds.
Allegheny chipped away at CMUs ad
vantage built on first half free throws and 
DiCiccos accurate bombs from the cor
ners early in the second half. The Gators 
finally knotted the game at 58s on an 
Eric Lindberg field goal with 5:45 re
maining.
Then it was time for the Tartans to 
show that CHOKE is not part of their 
vocabulary. George Harvey, who has al
ways connected on the pressure shots this 
season, regained the lead for keeps for the 
Tartans with his patented jumper.
CMU opened some daylight from a 
62-61 lead when Les Harper hit twice in 
rapid succession and sent the Gators scur
rying to the bench for a timeout with only 
3:10 left. The strategy session worked as 
Lindberg tipped in a bucket to bring 
Allegheny back, 66-63.
Harper was in the right place for a big 
rebound of a Tech miss and fired in a turn
around jumper from the foul line to 
increase the Tartan lead to five. After Jim 
Wheeler scored from outside with two 
minutes remaining, CMU went to the four 
corners offense. Harvey, DiCicco, and 
Mariano DeFilippo handled the ball effec
tively until Harper got free underneath for 
an easy layup with 1:30 to go.
Allegheny was back in striking distance 
after Wheeler converted on both ends of a 
1-1 to trail 70-67 with 1:08 showing on the 
clock. The Gators came up with a steal as 
the Tartans had trouble beinging the ball 
up the floor.
Allegheny tried several times to get a 
basket after the turnover, but the cylinder
seemed to have a lid on it. Harper skyed to 
end the Gators brief flurry of attempts.
DeFilippo was fouled with 28 seconds 
left, but did not make the first of a 1-1. 
Giants from CMU and Allegheny rose to 
great heights in a scramble for the loose 
ball, but the ball bounced out into the 
hands of the 57 sparkplug DeFilippo and 
the smallest man on the floor had one of 
the biggest rebounds of the game.
DeFilippo was fouled again and this 
time Flip coolly flipped in both charity 
tosses to give the Tartans an insurmoun
table 72-67 lead with 17 ticks remaining in 
the game. Lindberg sunk a meaningless 
hoop to make the final 72-69.
CMU moved to first half leads built on 
streaks of quick baskets. A key factor in 
the first half was the Tartans early oppor- ^ 
tunity to shoot 1-1 foul shots. Tech was in 3 
the bonus situation with 12 minutes to go a 
in the first half. Despite being outgoaled 
14-11, the Tartans moved to a 38-31 inter
mission lead because of a 16 for 20 perfor
mance from the foul stripe.
DiCicco used his hot second half to pull 
down scoring honors for the afternoon 
with 21 markers. Harvey had an outstan
ding first half for his 18 points. Harpers 
great stretch performance produced most 
of his 14 points. Harper, Marty Costa, 
and Greg Chambers (coming off an ankle 
injury) led the board work for CMU.
Lindberg, a 68 freshman, led the 
Gators scoring output with 20 points. 
Ralph Hopkins ended the afternoon with 
14. Marty Orzechowski, an Allegheny 
standout for the past three seasons, came 
off the bench for an 11 point effort.
CMU travels to Hiram Saturday night at 
8:00 for an extremely important PAC bat
tle. The game matches the class of the con
ference. The Tartans could just about 
assure themselves of the league title and a 
trip to the NCAA playoffs if they repeat 
their 82-65 victory over the Terriers.
The ability to come from behind and 
win close ball games, especially on the 
road, is a mark of a championship team. 
Carnegie-Mellon battled back from second 
half defecits for the third time on the road 
this year in turning back a hot-shooting 
Bethany Bison crew, 77-73.
Just as they had done earlier at Alle
gheny and John Carroll, the Tartans ignor
ed the pressure of playing from behind and 
shook off one of their poorer efforts to 
dominate the last few minutes against the 
host West Virginians.
Down 66-59 with 7:30 left in the con
test, CMU went to a very effective zone 
press designed to rattle the Bisons into 
mistakes. It produced immmediate results 
as Larry DiCicco and Les Harper scored in 
rapid succession. Another DiCicco hoop 
from the top of the key brought the Tar
tans within one, 66-65.
Marty Costa, who was very aggressive 
on the boards, nailed two free throws be
tween Bethany baskets by Dulkowski and 
Kendall Hayes. DiCicco connected again 
to put Tech down by one again, 70-69.
When Dave Neurohr only converted one 
of two charity tosses, the Tartans were in 
position to tie the game. Harper, who has 
been a clutch player throughout the sea
son, knotted the count at 71s with under 
three minutes to go. It was the 14th tie 
score of the game.
Dulkowski finally missed in the second 
half and CMU controlled the rebound. 
Coach Dave Maloney went to the four cor
ners offense with 2:30 left in the game. 
The idea was to draw a foul or get an easy 
hoop. Eventually, the ball got to the hands 
of the talented George Harvey and things 
started to roll from there. Harvey, who  
must have ice water running through his " 
veins, connected on both ends of a pressure
1-1 situation to regain the lead for the Tar
tans for the first time since midway in the 
second half. The Tartans led 73-71 with 
1:41 to play.
CMU went to a Diamond and 1 de
fense with Harvey shadowing Dulkowski. 
The tactics forced Bethany into missing a 
poor shot and DiCicco pulled down the 
carom. Again CMU went to the stall.
Harvey was again fouled with only 44 
seconds left. He missed the free throw this 
time, but Harper snatched one of his 17 re
bounds and put it in to give CMU a 75-71 
lead.
Harper showed why he is such a versa
tile player on the defensive end, too. 
Leapin Les, who earlier in the game had 
blocked a shot so hard off a Bisons face 
that he still has Spalding imprinted on his 
forehead, rejected a field goal attempt off 
the glass and gave the Tartans the ball 
again.
Mariano DeFilippo sank a free throw to 
put the Tartans up 76-71 with 22 ticks left 
on the clock. Flip missed on his second 
opportunity but Costa rebounded, missed 
inside, and fouled out in an attempt for 
another rebound.
Hayes missed the 1-1 and Harper swept 
the boards clean. Bethany tied Harper up 
for a jump ball. CMU controlled the tap 
and Harvey was immediately fouled with 
only 0:07 showing on the clock. He made 
the first, but missed the second allowing 
Scott Thompson an easy last second hoop 
to make the final, 77-73.
CMU started the game in their custom
ary qjick manner with a well executed
zone press. The Tartans moved to a 16-8 
lead before Dulkowski got his act together. 
He fired in three in a row to bring the hosts 
to within a bucket at 16-14.
Bethany finally evened the score at 24-
24 with eight minutes left in the first half. 
The remainder of the opening stanza was 
a see-saw battle that saw five more tie 
scores. Harvey completed an outstanding 
first half with two of his 16 first half 
points to give CMU the intermission lead, 
38-26.
Bethany took their first lead early in 
the final 20 minutes on a steal by Thomp
son and a bomb by Dulkowski. CMU had 
trouble operating against the Bisons zone 
defense. There wasnt much movement on 
the Tartans part and the ball wasnt work
ed inside.
Bethany started to pull away midway in 
the final period to a four point advantage, 
but senior Paul Hamerly scored a key three 
point play inside off of a Harvey assist to 
bring the Tartans back in striking distance. 
The basket and free throw put Hamerly 
over the 900 point mark for CMU career
- and left The Franchise only 98 points 
shy of the prestigious 1000 level.
Hamerlys play was even more impor
tant in the ensuing minutes as Bethany 
built up their seven point advantage. But 
CMU showed tremendous poise and started 
their trademark road comeback.
Harvey again lead the CMU scoring pa
rade despite having an off night from the 
field. He tallied 23 points, a little above his 
seasonal average. DiCicco and Harper dividcontinued on page twenty-seven

---------------------------------------------------

 February 8, 1977TARTANpage 25
-TARTANS CHOSEN TANKERS NIP BISONSACADEMIC STARS
Sophomore linebacker Rich Lackner 
1 and senior defensive end Dave Nackoul, 
mainstays of CMUs nationally ranked 
defensive unit this past football season, 
have been named to the first team of the 
1976 Academic All-America College Divi
sion squad. Lackner, a 6-0, 220-pounder 
from Mt. Lebanon, Pa., was a first team 
all-conference choice and the defensive 
MVP in the Presidents Conference, while 
g carrying a 3.85 grade average in history.
Nackoul, a 6-1, 210 pounder from 
Canonsburg, Pa., was the teams leading 
solo tackier with 48 unassisted stops. His 
3.9 average in electrical engineering was
Rich Lachner
among the highest grade factors on the 
All-Academic team. Lackner and Nackoul 
played a big part in CMUs 6-1-1 football 
record, and helped the Tartan defensive 
unit finish 11th nationally in 
scoring defense as well as first in the 
Presidents Conference in overall defense. 
The team included players from NCAA 
Divisions II and III as well as the NAIA. 
All-Academic University and College Divi
sion teams are sponsored by CoSIDA, the 
national sports information directors asso
ciation. Candidates must carry a 3.0 qpa 
in their major as well as demonstrate out
standing ability.
Diane Maddock
n keeping with the schools newfound 
winning trend, the swim team captured a 
victory on Saturday. This was the first vic
tory of the season and Coach Pecman was 
elated. The momentum of the meet accele
rated as the contest progressed and CMU 
captured first places in three consecutive 
races. Harry Coleman broke a school re
cord with a time of 1:57.1 in the 200 yard 
freestyle. Frank Dittman continued the 
streak by placing first in the 50 yard 
freestyle and Joe Dickey took first in the 
200 yard medley. Before the diving event, 
Bethany was winning by a single point. 
During the second half of the meet, the 
score never fluctuated more than five 
points with Bethany always maintaining 
the slight lead as the meet progressed and 
CMU never seemed to be on top but the
swimmers never gave up hope and began 
to gain on their opponent. Frank Dittman 
again captured a first place in the 100 yard 
freestyle and Joe Dickey kept the pace by 
placing first in the 200 yard backstroke. 
This had been CMUs best showing this 
season; with all of the races close and indi
vidual times coming out excellent. Prior to 
the last event the score was 55-51 still in 
Bethanys favor. The outcome of the meet 
was to be determined by the 400 free relay 
race and the team of Pete Dickey, Joe 
Dickey, Harry Coleman and Frank Ditt
man. The entire swim team gathered and 
produced an exciting cheer to let the 
swimmers of the last relay know that they 
were behind them and were counting on 
them to win the meet. By the middle of 
the race it was known that CMU would be 
victorious and the cheers began. The final 
score of 58-55 was a trude indication of 
the fine efforts put forth by the team.
"CRETE FEVER"
PAWN PUSHERS PLACE
by Jim Carr
% Over the winter break CMU was repre-* 
sented by three teams in the PanAmerican 
Intercollegiate Chess Championship held in 
New York, Dec. 26-30, with teams from 
both the U.S. and Canada participating. 
The CMU A team placed fifth with a 
6-2 score after dropping the final match 
with MIT A. With the final match almost 
over it appeared that CMU would win and
^ thus clinch second place; however, things 
did not proceed as expected so CMU had 
to settle for fifth. The tournament was
won by the University of South Florida 
with a perfect 8-0 score. They are the only 
American University that recruits chess 
players and therefore, they get some of 
the most outstanding young players with 
scholarship offers. The CMU B and C 
teams finished with disappointing 4Vi-3lA 
and 4-4 scores respectively; however, Rod
ney Strychor of the B team and David 
Kolarik of the C team both turned in 
outstanding individual performances, 
almost winning board prizes.
Members ot last years team witn tneir earnings
evenings at 8:00.
Although, at this early stage, the effort 
exhibited in construction seems to be 
priority, the other members of the team 
have not been idle. Men and women stu
dents have begun a weight and exercise 
program to improve their paddling 
strength. Puder and Diamond have plans 
for actual canoe paddling exercises at Pan
ther Hollow Lake in the early spring. As 
you can see, joint effort is the key 
phrase in every aspect of the program. 
Design, construction, and racing are all 
integral parts of the competition, and 
within these subgroups of the team, 
students and faculty work together, utili
zing their Civil Engineering know-how and 
athletic prowess.
The races consist of mens and women's 
student competition, and a faculty event. 
CMU has competed in the past with 
schools  such as West Point, Cornell, 
Purdue, Princeton, U. of Penn., and 
Bucknell. This year, we have been invited 
to Bucknell, University of Maryland, 
University of Maine (which has one of the 
few whitewater concrete canoe races in the 
nation), Princeton, and University of North 
Carolina, to name a few. Of the nine or ten 
races CMU has been invited to, we will, in 
all probability, attend only three or four of 
the races.
CMU concrete canoe is not taken 
lightly. To quote a previous TARTAN 
article, Successful concrete canoe racing 
is analogous to successful buggy racing. 
The effort is a blend of technology, crafts
manship, organization, motivation, and 
guts. Based on this criteria, the CMU 
team has it made. Does it still seem like a 
practical joke?
alovinglassful
by Mary Weeks
Youve got to be kidding ... how will it
float? .....Its the Civ.Es idea of a practical
joke, right? ..... Its comments like these
that are likely to be muttered by a stranger 
to the Civil Engineering Departments 
annual concrete canoe project. Despite 
these comments, over 40 students and 
faculty are wholeheartedly investing their 
time and talents into this years races. Far 
from being someones poor attempt at a 
bad joke, the entire canoe effort has taken 
on a flair and excitement of which few out
side of the department are aware. Co-chair
men of this years concrete canoe, Jim 
Puder and Stan Diamond, have initiated a 
rigorous program in preparation for the 
stiff competition which lies ahead in the 
spring races.
For those unfamiliar with concrete 
canoe, the project not only involves the 
actual race, but also includes design and 
construction of the canoe. The basic design 
of this years canoe will be similar to last 
years undefeated model, with improve
ments planned in durability and weight of 
the craft. A few sophomore Civil Engineers 
are researching various lightweight concrete 
mixes for the construction of the canoe, 
including such additives as latex, wire 
strand, and various wire meshes. CMU also 
plans to enter canoe design competitions 
in the different races we will attend. Prepa
ration is already underway. Enthusiasm 
among this years team (team in this 
context not only refers to the paddlers, but 
also to anyone involved in the organiza
tion, design, or construction of the canoe), 
is displayed at the Civil Engineering lab in 
Porter Hall, where scheduled work sessions 
take place Monday and Wednesday

---------------------------------------------------

page 26 -TARTAN-February 8, 1977
SKATERS PILLAGED BY V BY VIKINGS
by Don Jacobson
The Tartan icers blew an early goal lead, 
losing to Cleveland State 8-6 in Cleveland 
Saturday night.
At 5:59 of the first period, Bill Thomp
son drew first blood with an unassisted 
goal from the point. The Tartans expanded 
their lead to two when Skip Wallace and 
Mat Madelene set Ken Trumpfeller up for 
his first goal of the night at 11:10 of 
the first period. It appeared as though the 
icers were on their way, but the Cleveland 
Vikings exploded for three unanswered 
goals from point blank range, and the first 
period ended 3-2. In that period, Cleveland 
outshot CMU 18-9, as a lack of backchecking and disorganization in the Tartans 
defensive zone took its toll.
Cleveland expanded its lead to two 
goals at 5:19 of the second period when a 
defensive lapse led to a two on one against 
goalie Don Jacobson. At 13:10 the Vikings 
again scored on a similar play and the Tar
tans were down 5-2, as the second period 
ended. Cleveland again outshot the CMU 
Icers, this time by a 9-6 margin.
After a long, soul-searching locker-room 
break between periods, the Tartans dis
played their most awesome offensive play
Jacobson making a stick-side save
of the season, scoring 4 third period goals. 
Rick Smith scored on unassisted goal only
14 seconds into the third period, but the 
Vikings answered with a garbage goal at 
2:53 of the period. Cleveland scored twice
again on CMUs disorganized play before 
CMUs offense could light the lamp. In 
picture perfect plays, Ken Trumpfeller 
set up Captain Jack Arturo for two goals 
at 6:35 and 11:05 of the third period.
YOUR HERE FOR AN EDUCATION!!
by l.M. Wright
Coming off a victorious sports weekend 
at CMU, the improvement of all the CMU 
sports teams and their transformation into 
fierce competitors for the individual and 
the all-sports P.A.C. title brought a ques
tion to my mind. What next?? The obvi
ous answer is to begin to schedule tougher 
competition and then become the best in 
Division III of the N.C.A.A. Then, ...may
be Division II. The main drawback to that 
dream is the academic community, not the 
lack of sports talent. Many of the depart
ments and professors do not believe in the 
athletic program at CMU. Although many 
of the professors are understanding and 
follow the regulations outlined in the 
Student Handbook (roughly stated  mem
bers of sports teams are permitted to be 
absent from class provided that the work 
be made up and the official absence autho
rization slip be signed and presented to
the professor of the class) most of the 
professors and departments will not allow 
the student to miss class. President Cyert 
sent out a memo to all departments stating 
that there would be no classes between 
4:30 and 6:30 so that sports teams could 
practice. Each semester, there are depart
ments that blatantly defy school rules and 
some professors that do not excuse stu
dents for athletic events. As for scheduling 
during the 4:30-6:30 time slot, the Drama, 
Music, and the Architecture Departments 
and the Biology and Chemistry Depart
ment labs are the main violators. Individual 
professors decide whether or not to obey 
the rules and let students out of class. I 
have had one professor on each end of the 
spectrum in their following of the rules. 
I had one professor that excused me from 
class to go to practice as long as I had the 
work done and took the tests. On the 
other hand, I had one prof that told me 
that I was shirking my responsibilities by
playing sports and that I should grow up 
and place sports in their proper perspec
tive. I was also told to face my problems 
and responsibilities and quit hiding under 
the phony excuse of playing sports. When 
I got my D for the course, (the grade was 
based solely on attendance and I had two 
unexcused absences for games which hap
pened to be during his class) I complained 
to several Administration people. I was 
told that I was wrong and should have 
gone to class. I had tried, but there was 
to be no reprieve with professors and 
some departments that were so totally 
against the sports program a few years 
ago and are still here at CMU (and even 
key Administration people still lodged
HAVE AHEART!
for the weekend.
Send her the FTDLoveBundle Bouquet for Valentines Weekend
Reach out and 
touch her with this 
FTD LoveBundle
Bouquet. Your 
FTD Florist can 
send one almost 
anywhere by wire, the 
FTD way Order early. (Most FTD 
Florists accept major credit cards.)
per day plus lO 
per mile
Monte Carlo or similar car
You pay for the gas and return car to any location listed. Available Friday noon 
til Monday noon. Or if you're planning a trip over the Christmas-New Year holi
day, try National's 6-day rate on a Nova or similar car for $119. You get 1,000 
miles at no extra charge on this ONE-WAY rate. Bring the car back to Pittsburgh 
and theres no mileage charge! You pay for gas Rates are non-discountable 
and subject to change without notice. National also has 6 and 7-day rates on other car sizes. Call for reservations today:
4621 Forties Ave. (Oakland) 682-1444
550 Grant Street 261*5500
Greater Pittsburgh Airport 262-2312
We feature GM cars.
*Rato subject to change without notie
*As an independent businessman, each 
FTD Member Florist sets his own prices.
Say FTD...and be sure.

The momentum in their favor, Wallace 
and Arturo gave Trumpfeller the puck in 
the slot who slammed the Tartans sixth 
goal home at 13:41 of the period. The 
game ended 8-6 as the Tartans outshot 
Cleveland 11-10 in the period.
Despite the discouraging loss, the Tar
tans third period drive was impressive.
The third line, consisting of Mat Madelene, 
Steve Fuchs and Joe Chaves, with Dave 
Olisar alternating checked furiously in the 
offensive zone, and Ken Trumpfeller was 
honored with the second-star of the game 
award for his fine two-goal, two-assist 
performance. Skip Wallace and Jack Arturo 
played their best games of the season and 
goalie Don Jacobson made many point- <vblank saves.
The Tartan icers are now 2-2-0 in league 
play and still hold a playoff slot. The icers 
play first-place Indiana February 10 at 
Belmont and February 12 at Lakeview, 
and two wins there could move the Tartans 
into first place in the Western Pennsylvania 
Intercollegiate Hockey Association. So 
come and support your team!
Shots on Goal
k 1st 2nd 3rd 4th
CMU 9 6 11 -26
Cleveland St. 18 9 10-37
in Warner Hall), how can the Athletic * 
Department hope to upgrade the pro
gram when so many fine athletes are 
not able to play at all or are flunked by 
their departments if they do play???
With such great talent coming to CMU 
to play sports and get a good education, 
it is now time to enforce rules that have 
been in existence for years but forgotten.
If the best players at CMU cannot play, the l 
entire program suffers. Why print the rules 
if they are not enforced? I would like to 
see a national championship here at CMU, 
but the athletic program needs help from 
the academic community as well as the 
athletic community to accomplish their 
goals.
<
977 Florists Transworid Delit
4*1**
I - ^National Car Rental j

---------------------------------------------------

February 8, 1977-TARTAN-page 27
Skinned FoesGIRLS IN SLUMP
continued from page twenty-four 
ed 28 points. DiCicco was 7 for 10 from 
the field, while Harper was devastating on 
the glass. Costa aided Harpers yeomen re
bounding with 10 boards of his own.
Dulkowski led the way for Bethany 
with 24. He was backed by Hayes 16 and 
Thompsons 14. The Bisons were without 
the services of starting guard Fran Haus, 
who was out with an ankle injury.
The victory moved the Tartans all-time 
record win streak to nine in a row. CMUs 
record was upped to 11-2 overall and a per
fect PAC leading 6-0.
CMU
PtsRebAssists
Harvey2337
Costa6100
DiCicco1493
DeaBrunzzo212
Harper14171
Humerly900
DeFilippo916
774119
BETHANY
PtsRebAssists
Thompson1424
Hayes1675
Link411
Sichina6514
Neurohr921
Dulkowski2453
Carse000
732228
M fr
SSv: -
Paul "The Franchise" Hamerly 
"Shooting for a Thousand"
CMU
Harvey........
DiCicco .....
Harper .......
Chambers ..
Costa ..........
DeaBrunzzo 
DeFilippo .. 
Hamerly ....
Allegheny
EDITORS NOTE
Again, my apologies to Keith, Harry and 
Russ.
Lindberg ....
Hopkins .....
Orzechowski
Wheeler .......
Faloon..........
Barba............
Webb ............
-18
21
14
4
5
4
6 
0
72
20
14
11
6
7
5
6
69
NEED EXTRA 
MONEY????
If you are a healthy MALE, age 20-30, 150-200 pounds. 
Volunteers are needed for Bioavailability Testing 
Program on absorption rates of prescription 
medications. All Studies are conducted under struct 
medical supervision.
 Program involves small blood samples drawn 
at various times throughout the study.
 Physical exams will be given in Room 335,
Hotel Webster Hall
... Each Wednesday, 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
(No lunch4 hour fast, water only)
... Each Thursday, 9 a.m. to 11 a.m.
(No breakfastfast, water only)
NEW volunteers will be given $10 for taking1 our 
physical exam, including complete blood chemistries. 
Pay scale ranges from $50-500, depending upon 
requirements of the study.
For Complete Details, Please Call
Biodecision Laboratories, Inc.
Room 335, Webster Hall, 4415 Fifth Avenue 
682-2022
Or Come directly to the Physical Exam 
(PLEASE BRING PROOF OF AGE)
by Gordon Morrison
The Carnegie-Mellon University 
Womens basketball team lost to Duquesne 
University 68-22 on Thursday night at 
Duquesne. From the very beginning, Du
quesne proved what they could do by 
winning the opening tip and taking the ball 
in for an easy layup. Short, quick passes 
with constant movement on offense pro
vided the Duchesses with the scoring punch 
they needed. Duquesne did not miss many 
outside shots and the few that they did 
miss, the tall front line for the Duchesses 
was able to get the offensive rebounds and 
the easy baskets inside. And with every
thing that Duquesne was able to do right, 
CMU could do nothing right. The CMU 
passes were poor at best and as a team, 
CMU hit 11 of 63 shots for 17.5% from the 
floor and 0 for 4 from the charity stripe. 
But the main problem was not the poor 
shooting, it was the poor passing. The CMU 
passing attack was constantly turning 
someone who was wide open for the easy 
shot into someone who was lucky to have 
the ball. And by the time CMU players 
made spectacular plays just to get control 
of the passes from their teammates, Du
quesne had them well covered. CMU com
pletely abandoned their offense without 
really trying it to see if it works. That 
caused great amounts of confusion at the 
offensive and of the court. At the defen
sive end of the floor, things were not 
much better. Duquesne had a good offense, 
but the CMU defense was comical at times 
with several people playing one defense 
and the other players playing something 
different. To make things worse, one 
CMU player would substitute in and two 
or three would come out of the game. The 
score was bad enough when playing five 
against five, but then CMU wanted to try 
with four or even three against the Du
quesne five.
The scoring for CMU was as follows: 
Terry Preskar with 6, Ingrid Goedicke 
and Laura Cooper with 4 each, Davina 
Davies, Karen Azinger, Mary Patrick 
and Marianne Vakiener with 2 points 
each. The leading CMU rebounders were 
Laura Cooper with 10, Driana Davies with 
7, and Mary Patrick with 5.
The season record is now 1 win and 2 
losses with the next opponent being
Geneva College at CMU on Saturday after
noon at 1:00 pjn. Geneva has a tall, quick 
team and should provide some tough com
petition.
The girls struggled against DuquesneSailing?
by Chip McLean w
Beginning February 20th the CMU Ex
plorers Club will be cosponsoring a series 
of seminars on sailing prepared by the 
Morain Sailing Club. The series wdl begin 
at 1 p.m. on the 20th with a beginners 
racing seminar which will include an expla
nation of racing at Lake Arthur, a walk
through a typical race course, and a discus
sion of basic rules and tactics. Later that 
same day Ian Bruce, a champion Interna
tional 14 and former Canadian Olympic 
sailor (now preeident of Performance Sailcraft), will speak on advanced racing tac
tics and strategy.
Subsequent seminars will include:
March 6th  1 p.m.
John Onslott, MSC race chairman, 
speaking on the establishment and manage
ment of a race committee. A film on Thistling by George Silk.
March 20th  1 p.m.
Bill Shields, an MSC sailor who has won 
Mac Dinghy and 470 fleet championships 
and now sails a Laser, presenting a program 
on sailing techniques.
The seminars are free and open to the 
public. Why not bring a friend?
We're going to give you one emphatic statement about the future of the computer industryand the future of your career.
APPLY!
If you have a degree in Eleclrical Engineering. Mechanical 
Engineering. Computer Science, or an MBA contact your 
placement office for further details. Digital Eguipment Corpora 
tion is an egual opportunity employer, m/f.
SDIDBSDdigital equipment corporation

---------------------------------------------------

3 KT >55 9  ? S, ct Sr K. ^ 3 
Sfidisi3ib QS-a Si. o*2^ 3 tp nft***c a Sue d g.?sssr |
 Sl*5K .' b ^ 5
IflS.- c s C/3&  R* S 'OC3 C Ote v*5* g c^ S ' vj

---------------------------------------------------

<2Vjn
bB
S'
8*
X
page 28 -TARTAN-February 8, 1977
