C-MU Linked To Skybus
Steven Correll
A CMU research institute and three pro
fessors are currently major figures in the 
Skybus controversy, a source of headlines 
in Pittsburgh newspapers for the past two 
years.
Skybus, a mass transit system developed 
by the Port Authority of Allegheny 
County, would extend 10.8 miles from the 
golden triangle to South Hills Village. A 
special concrete track, located partly at
ground level and partly on T-shaped to
wers, would carry small, rubber-tired ve
hicles. Designed to be highly automated, 
the electrically powered system requires no 
operators in the cars themselves. Planners 
expect to provide service at three minute 
intervals, 24 hours a day.
Much of the controversy over the 
Skybus project has centered on the in
volvement of large corporations, including 
Westinghouse Electric Corporation, which 
built a $5 million experimental transit ex
September 19, 1972 Volume 73 Number 2
Bennett Lincoff launches McGovern's CMU campaignPhoto By: Frank Stein
McGov. Visits Pgh. 
C-MU Drive Starts
Gary Singer
Senator George McGovern payed a visit 
to the steel city of Pittsburgh last Wed
nesday and demonstrated that his cam
paign consists of both a brilliant flair and a 
fading light.
McGoverns Pittsburgh headquarters 
lacks the efficiency of a presidential cam
paign. When this TARTAN reporter re
quested information on McGoverns plans, 
he was continually put off with vague an
swers and unfulfilled promises concerning 
the returning of phone calls. McGoverns 
headquarters was even reported to have 
called Carnegie-Mellon University one 
| night before his arrival in Pittsburgh, in 
search of a stage, rostrum, and public 
address system for their candidate to use at 
the rally.
Bennett Lincoff, the student co
ordinator for the McGovern campaign at 
C-MU, explained these occurances by say
ing that McGoverns campaign people are 
basically volunteers working because of 
| political conviction and that they, unlike
President Nixons professionals, have
little experience in the art of the political
campaign.
Lincoff continued that McGovern has 
more than displayed the spark of his cam
paign, both by the outstanding response he 
received at Market Square, on Wednesday, 
and the response he is receiving here on 
i campus.
A poll was conducted for all residents of
pressway in South Park. The South Park 
project led to the proposal for the essen
tially similar Skybus.
Ronald Hart, Director of Public Rela
tions for the Industrial Division of Westing
house, said that Westinghouse feels Skybus 
is ideally suited to Pittsburghs transpor
tation problems and would like to see the 
system built. Westinghouse spokesmen 
have been careful to point out in court 
hearings that the corporation is not cu
rrently involved in the Skybus project and 
would have to bid against competitors for 
any contracts to build equipment. Westing
house has traditionally supported CMU 
financially, and Donald C. Burnham, Chair
man, Director and Chief Executive of the 
company, is a life trustee of the university.
David Craig, a member of the law firm 
of Baskin, Boreman, Wilner, Sachs, Gondelman and Craig, is chief legal counsel for 
the Port Authority in the current hearings.
He also teaches urban development law at 
CMUs School of Urban and Public Affairs 
as Adjunct Professor of Administration. 
According to Professor Craig, large cor
porations like Westinghouse and local 
unions have supported rapid transit pro
jects because they are an economic asset to 
the community as a whole. Professor Craig 
believes most of the public doesnt oppose 
Skybus, but merely feels disaffected be
cause the intiial phase of the project 
doesnt serve it directly. And 
Commissionre Hunt has capitalized on this 
disaffection because its the basis for his 
political position, thats all, said Craig. 
Perhaps if the same project had been 
planned for the entire city at once, the 
reaction would have been entirely di
fferent.
The CMU Transportation Research In
stitute, which was founded with the help 
continued on Page 12Rape On Campus; Suspects Sought
John Spalding
On the night of September 4 on the 
CMU campus, a student was raped behind 
Donner Hall. She was approached from the 
rear and forced to accompany three men to 
a garage where she was brutally assaulted.
Military $ 
Debate 
T omorrow
Two military expenditures experts will 
be the first participants in a series of four 
debates on issues of key importance in the 
1972 Presidential election to be held at 
CMU this fall. Robert S. Benson and 
William Schneider will be in the Skibo Ball
room tomorrow at 7:00 pm. to discuss 
Military Expenditures-Can They Be Re
duced?
The debate is being presented jointly by 
the University administration and a student-faculty sommittee to provide a forum 
for views on major national problems. It 
continued on Page 6
Currently, Security has the descriptions of 
three white male suspects from the greater 
Pittsburgh area connected with this and at 
least three or four other similar incidents. 
Because of concern for the victims privacy 
the Tartan has held back specific personal 
details available only to the Pittsburgh Po
lice and CMU Security.
The police have linked the suspects to a 
car used in another incident and have a 
composite sketch of a person seen in the 
area at the approximate time of the assault. 
Another case was revealed because the first 
was reported. A friend of the girl revealed 
that men of the same description forced 
her to go with them to another destination, 
but she was not assaulted.
I urge anyone who has any informa
tion pertaining to the case or to incidents 
involving two or three men approaching an 
unescorted young women with the line, 
Youre the wrong girl, to call Security at 
687-7717 or on a campus line at ex. 666, 
stated Security Director Ron Taylor. Tay
lor also urged students as a precaution to 
avoid walking alone at night and to follow 
well-lighted, well-traveled routes between 
their destinations.
the C-MU dormatories which showed that 
70-75 percent of the inhabitants of the 
dorms were registered to vote and out of 
these four to one preferred McGovern to 
Nixon. A voter registration which was held 
on September 13, successfully registered 
another two hundred people.
McGoverns support on campus is more 
concrete than a simple poll. Lincoff who 
started campaigning alone last week has 
presently 109 volunteers who work with
out any headquarters supervision and who 
comprise a well thought out organization 
whose purpose is to reach as many mem
bers of the Carnegie-Mellon community as 
possible.
The Student, Staff, and Faculty Coal
ition for McGovern has also set up tables 
outside Skibo and Baker Hall where they 
have raised over one hundred dollars (as of 
Wednesday). This money will be used for a 
massive mailing program which will send a 
comprehensive statement of the can
didates views to all members of the cam
pus community.
If the Student Senate approves Lincoffs 
application for recognition as a student 
organization, he will also have an infor
mation session in the Skibo Ballroom 
where speakers will discuss McGoverns 
policies and the students and faculty of 
C-MU can debate the issues. Recognition 
by the Senate would also give Lincoffs 
organization an office which he says he
continued on Page 6
Draft Classifications 
Changed, Says Deani/i *Gregory McKenna
All students born in 1952 whose draft 
lottery number is above 200, along with all 
students born in 1953 whose numbers are 
above 101 have automatically been re
classified as 1-H by their draft boards, 
claims Dean Charles Williams.
The Selective Service System has an
nounced that the highest draft lottery 
number that will be called this year is 95. 
Further relief has been offered to reluctant 
draftees by Defense Secretary Melvin Laird 
who stated that the Administration will 
not ask Congress for the authority to ex
tend its power to draft citizens after June 
30, 1973. If the volunteer army plan is 
enacted no eligible men will be drafted.
Charles Williams, Dean of Men, has in
vited all students with any quesitons or 
personal problems with the draft to con
tact him on the second floor of Warner 
Hall.
Students who currently hold a 2-S stu
dent deferrment may drop their deferrment by writing a letter to their draft 
board by December 31. If their number is 
not called by December 31, students who 
dropped their deferrment will be put inot a 
second priority group on January 1. 
Should a students number be called after 
he has dropped his deferrment, he will be
Charles Williams Photo By: John Shettle 
placed in an extended priority group from 
which draftees will be taken for the first 
three months of 1973 before any other 
men are drafted.
Students born after 1952 were ineligible 
for student, occupational, or fatherhood 
deferrments. After registering with their 
draft boards, these men were automatically 
classified 1-H until January 1 of the calen
dar year of their nineteenth birthday, at 
continued on Page 6

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, September 19, 1972
editors noteLetters:
President Nixon recently stated that the work ethic had made 
America great, and that he represented the work ethic, while Senator 
McGovern represented something called the "Welfare Ethic. 
For the last several years the national unemployment rate has never 
gone below 5 percent, and in numerous impacted areas it has been 20 
percent and higher. These unemployed must be comforted to know, as, 
they and their families starve, that they are making America great. Or, if 
upon failing to find a job (impossible in places like Seattle), the 
unemployed does receive begrudging financial support, he/she is sucking 
the blood of good Americans.
But only some welfare is inglorious. Senator james Eastlands huge 
farm subsidy (available only to rich farmers) is not welfare. The oil-depletion allowance and the Lockheed guaranteed loan/subsidy (free enter
prise, anyone?) are not welfare. Nor would the SuperSonic Transport be 
welfare, despite the Administrations major argument that it would pro
vide employment.
Certainly welfare "chiseling (probably no more prevalent than 
white collar tax fraud) is not to be condoned. But a society as rich as ours 
owes each potential wage earner dignified, adequate employment or a 
sufficient level of income support.
But we have learned to expect such inflammatory rhetoric from the 
President. For a man who justifies mass murder with the preservation of 
prestige, the quest for political gain certainly vindicates an appeal to 
ignorance, an instigation of racism, a small case of scapegoating.
It is a very old technique. Demagogue is too good a word.
One can almost pity Munich, that geographical entity noted for the 
abortive Beer Hall Putsch, and made infamous by Neville Chamberlains 
smiling umber I la (though of course the events to come were determined 
years before then). Now, that city, meant to be a symbol of Germany 
reborn through hosting the Olympiad, is instead tainted with a reminder 
of Dachau.
The Black September terrorists of Munich, 1972, did not suddenly 
spring forth from the desert sands, fully formed, just as the Hitler of 
Munich, 1938 was created by events twenty years before, so the terrorists 
came from a history spanning decades.
The Middle East is a land governed by irrational and violent passions 
nurtured for a generation by leaders blinded, for whatever reasons, to the 
overriding facts of existence. Policies and expenses of war and hate have 
caused untold suffering and retained in primitive conditions the in
habitants of this barren but, as the Israelis (with massive aid) have shown, 
potentially fruitful, land. Equally and more to blame for Munich are 
those, including France, the U.S. and the U.S.S.R., who in their shifting 
power plays and avarice have armed and rearmed the combatants.
But seen in perspective, that the world was shocked (for a day 
anyway) by eleven murdered Israelis is ludicrous. In as self righteous a 
fashion as any jihad, the U.S. is bombing, raping and defoliating its way 
into the hearts and minds of the few surviving Indochinese people.
At least the Indochinese may die content in the knowledge that 
theyve drawn the American peoples attention from their first loves, 
bombing Birmingham churches and blacklisting 
Communists.
Twelve years after Soviet tanks rolled into Budapest (as the Hun
garians looked skyward for the CIA-promised American planes), new 
Soviet tanks entered Prague. Portuguese planes, supplied by NA TO to 
contain communism, were even then napalming nationalists in A frica.
Biafra, Bangladesh, BelfastWhile the unlucky burn the fortunate starve and the superpowers 
sign a strange arms limitation pact which allows them to spend ever more 
billions on new generation bombers and missies.
The merry-go-round will not slow. Someone must first jump off. But 
common sense and honor prevail.
Lament for evolutions greatest myth: Homo Sapiens.
Steve jurman
Published every Tuesday during the 
academic year at Carnegie-Mellon 
University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 
15213. Editorial and Business offices in 
Skibo 50, Carnegie-Mellon University, 
Telephone (412) 682-4557
Editor in Chief....................Steve Jurman
Special Editor.........................Mina Gerall
News Editor..............................Jeff Ganek
News Staff ........................Steve Correl
Ann Friedman, Laurel Felix 
Mike Hill, Greg McKenna 
Robin Reiter, Debbie Siegel 
Gary Singer, John Spalding
Features Staff....................Chris Infante
Ellen Steiber, Steve Perkins 
Joan McCluskey, John Crawn 
David Guida, David Stewart 
Photography Editors .... Ed Levine
Elliot Arons
Photography Staff .... John Shettel 
Greg Nickel, Henry Collins
H Entertainment Editor . . Steve Saunders
Entertainment Staff .... Julio Vera 
Nora Dempsey, Steve Kaywood
Business Manager...............Alice Bright
Advertising Manager . . . Laura Powers
Layout...................................Karla Salui
Becky Carrol
Editor,
It is my honor to present this letter to 
you. International Friendship Club was es
tablished in 1950 to promote friendship 
and understanding of different customs, 
ways of life among the young people of the 
world through exchange of letter. It has no 
relation to any special political party, reli
gion, nor ideology.
Japanese students are very much interes
ted in learning English through correspon
dence with foreign pen friends. Many Eng
lish teachers of junior and senior high 
schools of Japan are eager to participate in 
our activity.
We wish to have lists of many names 
and addresses of young people older than 
twelve who wish to have Japanese pen 
friends. We wish you would clarify sex of 
each person at the same time. We will im
mediately arrange our Japanese members 
to send letters to their friends in your 
country. We believe letters of young people 
across the borders would be the strong ties 
of friendship. All the letters should be writ
ten in English.
We will eagerly await your kind reply.Sincerely Yours, International Friendship Gub Yuzo Inoue, Chairman
(more information available in Tartan office- ed. )
Editor:
I wish to express my sincere thanks and 
appreciation to all the participating groups 
and orientation helpers who worked to 
make this years Activities Fair a success.
A special mention is deserved for my 
able secretary Barb McKissock.
And I hope that everyone will compli
ment Debbie Mall for the excellent result 
of the many hours she spent building the 
large plastic sign.
Joel Mannion
Editor:
At this time I would like to thank the 
City of Pittsburgh and the CMU Adminis
tration on behalf of the Sweepstakes Com
mittee for the paving of Frew Street before 
last years races. It was an important con
tribution to the safe outcome of the 1972 
Buggy Competition.
Don Deitrich Sweepstakes Chariman (Temp.)
(See announcements for 73 Buggy news- ed. )Editor:
It is the first right and primary obliga
tion of every citizen in a Democracy to 
exercise his or her power to vote. Due to
the recent passage of the 26th Amend
ment, enfranchising those citizens between 
the ages of eighteen and twenty-one, an 
estimated 18 million more people will be 
eligible to vote in the coming national elec
tion. Added to this are the approximately 
7 million people who turned twenty-one in 
the past four years, bringing the first-time 
voters total to 25 million. This represents 
the so called youth vote; so called be
cause the maturity of these 25 million new 
voters has yet to be proven in a general 
Presidential election.
Just what is the significance of the 
youth vote? Our 25 million votes repre
sents more than either the Black block 
or the Jewish block; more than the com
bined populations of Alabama, Arkansas, 
Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, and North 
Carolina; more than the intellectual 
vote, the farm vote, or the Catholic 
vote. The so called experts have been put
ting down our vote with the argument that 
we are outnumbered, which is both false 
and misleading. We are all outnumbered, 
but any single group in a Democracy will 
always be outnumbered by a combination 
of two or more other groups.
In terms of actual voter turnout the 
fallacy of the expert opinion becomes 
even more clear. In the 1968 General Elec
tion only 63% of those who were eligible 
actually voted. But in the 1972 primary 
election (voter turnout in primaries is tra
ditionally lower than that of the general 
elections) the new youth vote was signifi
cantly higher than that of the general elec
torate. In Philadelphia, for example, the 
turnout for Aprils Presidential Primary 
was 40% overall, but in the 27th Ward, 
heavily populated by students, the turnout 
was 70%. The same formula is apparent in 
other student populated areas throughout 
the United States; Chicago, Boston, San 
Francisco, Los Angeles, etc. All of this 
really points out the fallacy of the so called 
expert opinion.
We are living in an age of almost con
stant change. We have been told that youth 
demands change, but we have learned that 
change demands youth. The responsibility 
for assuring that this change will be con
structive, worthwhile, and beneficial to the 
majority of us, now rests on our shoulders. 
After Chicago, Woodstock, Jackson State, 
Bangladesh, Earth Day, Kent State, the 
Marijuana Initiatives, countless moratori
ums, teach-ins, andsit-ins-Can we cop out 
now? No! Register to vote between now 
and October 10 (at the County Office Buil
ding, Fourth Ave. and Ross Street, Down
town, weekdays 9 am to 4 pm and Satur
days 9 am to noon) and^vote as if our 
whole world depended on it. Doesnt it?
Bennett Lincoff, '74

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, September 19, 1972Page 3
Announcements:
The first organizational meeting of the
Sweepstakes Committee will be held at 
11:00 pm Tuesday, September 19, at the 
Phi Kappa Theta Fraternity House. Any 
campus organization wishing to enter a 
buggy in next spring's competition should 
be represented. It is important for the 
non-fraternity organizations (like CIA, 
Fringe, and Dorms) to attend the fall meet
ings, as important rules, safety and organi
zational changes will probably be made.
Effective Monday, September 25 the CMU
Shuttle Bus will operate on a continuous 
run basis from 8:30 am to 12 noon and 
from 12:30 pm to 5:oo pm, Monday 
through Friday.
The bus will operate between the rear 
entrance of Mellon Institute and the 
Forbes Avenue entrance of Skibo.
B'nai B'rith Hillel will hold its first meeting
to plan activities on Thursday, September 
28 at 1:00 in the Wherrett Room of Skibo. 
All interested students are welcome. If you 
can't attend the meeting, call 621-8875.
All undergraduate students are invited to
try out for varsity athletic teams.
The CMU Health Office is providing flu
shots to the campus commuinty daily from 
11:30 am to 3:30 pm. There is a charge of 
one dollar, payable in advance at the Cash
ier's Office.
Mellon Institute Chorus: You are all in
vited to lend your voices to the Mellon 
Institute Chorus for a year of fun-filled 
musical ventures. The Chorus meets every 
Tuesday from 12:30 to 1:30 in the Mellon 
Institute Conference Room. The first reherasal will be held on Tuesday, September 
19. Anyone in the University who enjoys 
singing is urged to meet with Director Paul 
Koch's happy folks!
Society of Physics Students will hold an
important organizational meeting on 
Thursday, September 21, at 4:30 pm in 
SCH 5427. Activities will be planned, cards 
and pins distributed, and a special lecture 
will be given on Argonne Lab Facilities. 
New members welcome.
Anyone interested in participating on the
cross country team, please come to the 
back of Donner Hall by the track at 4:30.
The year's first meeting of the CMU Film
Workshop will be held on Wednesday, Sepetmber 20 at 7 pm in the Wherrett Room, 
Skibo. The workshop sponsors an annual 
student film festival, provides instruction 
and programming on film making, and 
operates a film equipment lending service.
Students are cordially invited to attend the
first of the 1972-73 University Public Lec
tures, featuring Dr. Herbert A. .Simon, 
Richard King Mellon Professor of Com
puter Science and Psychology and Asso
ciate Dean of the Graduate School of In
dustrial Administration. Professor Simon 
will speak on "Science and Society: Mao's 
China in 1972, based on his visit this 
summer to the People's Republic of China 
as a member of an unofficial delegation of 
computer scientists. The lecture will be 
held at 8:30 pm on Tuesday, September 
26, in the Ballroom of Skibo.
Wanted: Managers for football, soccer, 
swimming, cross-country, track, tennis, 
wrestling. Sign up: Athletic Office, Gym 
102.
Eta Kappa Nu, the electrical engineering
honorary, is planning to hold a series of 
seminars for students planning to take 
GREs. Past experience has shown students 
to be well prepared within their depart
ment but poorly prepared in others. If you 
are interested in participating, please con
tact J. Bloom, Box 561. Please indicate the 
time which you would be available.
Varsity athletes who did not pick up their
1971-72 athletic awards and certificated, 
please stop in the Athletic Office, Gym 
102.
Birthright, an emergancy pregnancy service
which assists pregnant women with alter
natives to abortion is holding a series of 
training sessions for volunteers. The series 
includes sessions to be held on October 9, 
October 23, and November 6 at the 
Friends Meeting House, 4836 Ellsworth 
(Oakland), at 8:00 pm.
Free Birth Control Handbooks (provided 
by Student Senate) at Skibo Information 
Pesk.
Copies of the 1972-73 Law School Ad
mission Bulletin, containing information 
about the Law School Admission Test and 
the Law School Data Assembly Service, are 
available at Thomas Kerr's office, GSIA 
206. A small supply of the official Pre-Law 
Handbook will be available in the Book
store next month.
OPEN INVITATION-A bi-monthly series
of jazz workshops will be held in the Cat's 
Cradle beginning September 24 at 4:00. 
The programs will feature leading jazz 
groups from Pittsburgh and surrounding 
territories and will include Jam Sessions as 
an added feature.
PIRG-Public Interest Research Group
meeting to discuss projects and plans for 
the semester. All interested students urged 
to attend. 4:30 pm room 54 Skibo.
Philip Pelusi Hair Design
You're on your way to that 
great look with your first hair 
cut from the talented scissors 
you find only at Philip Pelusi 
Hair Design. No razor will split 
your ends here: your hair-gets 
blunt edged scissors cutting 
... plus a sculptured fit to  
your head. (We've got private 
quarters for you guys!)
EdiEtorE ,:ddBeo,E
Philip Pelusi Hair Design 
1814 Murray Avenue,
Squirrel Hill
Phone: 421 4500, 521 1200
Delta Gamma sorority is presently working
on a service project for blind children. We 
desperately need old nylon stockings and 
all kinds of fabric and sewing materials. 
For more information or to leave supplies, 
please contact Elsbeth Weichsel, c/o Delta 
Gamma, 6D Morewood Gardens.
The Corner Counter Drugstore is once
again open with its fabulous discount 
prices! Hours: Monday-Thursday 3-9; Fri
day 3-7; Saturday and Sunday 5-7:30. Lo
cated in Ctower lobby, Morewood Gar
dens. Brought to you as a service by 
Women's Dorm Council.
Rea Coffeehouse, Chatham College is re
opening! Free admission; food and enter
tainment, Fridays 9 to 1 in the basement 
of Rea House, Chatham College. Opens 
September 29th and will be open October 
6, 13, 20 and 27; November 3 and 10 and 
December 1.
Yoga will be held on Thursdays from 7:00
to 9:00 pm in Skibo room 39. Fee this 
year will be $5.00. Sponsored by the 
YM-YWCA.
Absentee ballot application cards for re
sidents of Allegheny County are available 
at the Skibo Information Desk. If you are a 
resident of Allegheny County and regis
tered to vote in your home town and will 
not be able to get home on election day, 
you must send in your application as soon 
as possible fro your absentee ballot.
Mother's Helper: Babysitting for child who
attends school from 8:30 till 4:30, in re
turn for room and board plus salary. Week 
ends off. Stanton Heights- East Liberty 
area. Call 781-5906.
Freshmen: Pic Book Available NOW! Skibo
Information Desk. Bring your I.D.
Attention: Varsity basketball candidates
meeting: Thursday, September 21, 6:15, 
Black Cat Lounge, Gymnasium Building.
Venture over the bridge to the Lost
Weekend! Point Park College, 2nd floor 
Lawrence Hall, each Saturday, starting Sep
tember 23, 10pm to 2 am. Food, drinks, 
dancing, live bands. The Freeway Band ap
pears September 29th. Admission 50 cents.
Student Senate meeting (open to campus)
Tuesday, September 19, 4:30 pm. Wherrett 
Room. Ron Taylor will speak re. parking 
and security.
He will lay it on you.
A DOOZEY, HALELUJAH!
A wonderful work. I left 
Marjoe grateful for an 
absorbing film and 
convinced, ironically, 
that I had been in 
the presence of a 
truly amazing grace 
wonder, and a mystery
Richard Schickel, Lite Magazi
Marjoe is both electri
fying pnp art and sa 
snciology. A razzledazzle feature.
Bruca Williamson, Playboy
One nf the most extra
ordinary and cnmpelling 
non-fiction movies
eyeLXjiade.
Kevin Sanda7TW*B&TV------
Bob Salmaggi. Group kV Radio
Not since Spencer 
Tracy has the screen 
presented such a 
spellbinding Jekyll 
and Hyde. Marjoe is 
already a superstar.
Paul Zimmerman, Newsweek
I love it! Absolutely 
spellbinding. A 
fascinating pip!
Stewart Klein, Metromedia TV
Marjoe is a phenom
enon. One nf the 
most fascinating and 
appealing persenalities ever to appear 
on a film screen. 
Vivid eye-npening.
Peter Travers, Reader t Digest
Produced and Directed by Howard Smith and Sarah Kernochan 
Executive Producer Max Paievsky  A Cinema 5 Release.
SHADYSIDE
PG
WALNU^rNOW
SHOWING

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, September 19, 1972
Chairwoman Bram and President GarlPhoto By: Ed Levine
Students for Trustee 
Committees Sought
Student Government is searching for 
CMU students to fill positions on Trustee, 
Faculty and Campus-wide committees. It 
is most crcial that students serve on these 
committees, claims S.G. Chairwoman 
Leslie Bram, to insure we are repre
sented. S.G. President Michael Garl has 
urged all interested students to contact him 
at the Skibo INformation Desk.
Also announced at last Tuesdays S.G. 
meeting were tentative plans to move the 
Bureau of Placements from its present 
quarters in Skibo across the cut to Warner 
Hall. The Bureaus old offices will be used 
to increase the number and expand the size 
of student activities offices. Organizations 
expecting to benefit from the move include 
Student Government, the Council of Fra
ternity Presidents, WDC and MDC. Garl 
expects the plans to be finalized over the 
next week.
In other actions, S.G. appointed Susan 
Peters as chairwoman of the Senates Me
dical Loan Fund and Don Dietrich to the
Colisimo Heads 
Customer Relations
By Debbie Siegal
In an ettort to help students with their 
non-academic problems, President Cyert 
has appointed Frank Colisimo as the Dir
ector of Customer Relations. Mr. 
Colisimos office is located on the third 
floor of Warner Hall, ext. 582. His job is to 
cater to students, faculty, and staff.
Students are customers who are paying 
and deserve the best possible service we can 
give them. I will be glad to assist students 
in the areas of housing, food, the book
store, or security. Mr. Colisimo has ex
plained that for the first time, a student 
may offer complaints, comments, or 
suggestions directly to him. I cant pro
mise to solve all problems, but at least I 
may be able to offer some explanations. 
Some examples of requests already put to 
Colisimo are the installation of ramps in 
certain halls for people in wheel chairs and 
the setting up of bike racks.
TARTAN sources report that Colisimo 
has also been charged with enforcing no 
cooking regulations in dorm rooms.
Mr. Colisimo was previously in the 
study skills center where he helped stu
dents in areas such as remedial reading, 
interest tests, and speed reading. With the 
introduction of a new budget, the center 
was phased out.
The Division of Operations has a more 
definite purpose than it had in the past. 
With the elimination of certain staff mem
bers, an attempt has been made to create a 
more centralized system. Students no 
longer need to go through many channels 
for help. Now students may gain direct 
answers through the restructured Division 
of Operations.
post of temporary chairman of the Spring 
Carnival Buggy Committee.
The Senate has voted to recommend 
that the unclaimed protion of the 5 per
cent rebate on textbooks at the bookstore 
be returned to the students via the student 
activities account.Fellowship Money 
Available to Seniors
Six sources of fellowships available to 
CMU graduates have been announced by 
Virginia Milligan, Dean of Women. We 
have all the information necessary for stu
dents to apply in our office, room 209 
Warner Hall, claims Milligan. The dead
lines for filing application vary from 
October to December.
Information and applications for the 
Fulbright-Hays competition for grants for 
graduate study or research abroad and for 
professional training in the creative and 
performing arts are now available. Com
pleted applications must be returned to 
Dean Milligan by October 15, 1972.
Scholarships in Engineering, Math
ematics, and Science are offered for study 
at Churchill College, Cambridge University, 
England. Programs of study are suited to 
individual needs. The deadline for these 
applications is November 15, 1972.
Marshall scholarships are two year 
grants for study towards further degrees at 
British Universities in a wide range of sub
jects (including science and humanities). 
Marshall applications must be filed by Oc
tober 25, 1972.
Rhodes scholars will study in Oxford 
University. October 31 is the deadline for 
applying. High scholarship and an interest 
in sports are among the eligibility re
quirements for this prestigious award.
The East-West Center was established in 
Hawaii in 1960 to produce better re
lations and understanding between the U.S. 
and the nations of Asia and the Pacific 
through cooperative study, training, and 
research. Applications are due December 
15, 1972 in the Student Selection Office at 
the East-West Center in Honolulu.
Applications for the Danforth Fellow
ship for College Teaching Careers must be 
in Warner Hall, room 207 by October 15,
1972. Dean Milligan states, the'purpose of 
the program is to give personal encourage
ment and financial support to selected 
college seniors and recent graduates who 
seek to become college teachers, and who 
are vitally interested in relating their ed
ucational plans to their basic values.
With the exception of the FulbrightHays, scores from the graduate record ex
aminations are required in the application 
procedure. The last date for receipt of the 
Registration Form for GRE exams is 
October 3, 1972. Exams are give October
28.
Affirmative Action 
Planned By Cyert
Laurel Felix
In an effort to reform CMUs sexist hir
ing practices, the newly formed Womens 
Monitoring Committee led by Dr. Judith 
Lave will appoint an affirmative action of
ficer. The committee was charged with this 
duty by President Cyert. Cyert expects the 
affirmative action officer to set flexible 
goals of putting female and minority 
groups on the CMU staff. President Cyert 
does not wish to set up a strict quota of 
females to be hired, however, he does feel 
that CMU has not fulfilled its obligation to 
avoid discrimination in promotion, hiring 
and salary practices.
The officer will be required to recruit 
women students, as well as educating facul
ty members through seminars and lectures 
since faculty promotions are administered 
by individual departments whose members 
are predominantly male, I believe that dis
crimination cannot be avoided unless the 
affirmative action officer can influence 
CMUs present faculty, cautioned Cyert.
Studies are now being made which in
clude analysis of salaries and the signifi
cance of certain variables such as sex, pub
lications and other qualifications in hiring 
practices. These studeis will aid in deter
mining what must be modified in order to 
lessen discrimination.
In the new hiring process, Cyert says he 
will refuse to lower present standards. 
This can only be done through the avoid
ance of a quota system, and careful judging 
of all candidates for positions on a fair and 
equal basis, he stated.
jPhoto By: Elliot Arons 
Monitor chairperson, Dr. Judy Lave
Classified Ads--
For Sale: 1970 Yamaha 90 cc. HS1. Less
than 1800 miles. Mint condition. $350.00; 
call 422-9645.
Draft Counselling: Provided by Attorney
without charge. Sponsored by: B'nai B'rith 
Hillel Foundation 315 S. Beliefield Ave
nue, 3rd Floor. Every Tuesday evening 7 to 
9 pm, call 621-8875.
For rent or sale-compact refrigerators. 4%
cu. ft, 2% cu. ft. Call 279-7951 after 7 pm. 
only. Free delivery, free summer storage.
a sale on record protection
While you are dreaming of that someday perfect stereo 
system, you are gradually destroying your precious $5 
phonograph records (whether you realize it or not). 
That future great system of yours will clearly reveal all 
the problems you are now creating with record players 
that are poor. To stop this damage we offer 3 prod
ucts on sale that sound so great they can be used in 
systems costing up to $3000.
SHURE 9IED This new magnetic cartridge has very low 
distortion when tracking even the loudest records at 
only 1 1 /4 grams. It has an elliptical stylus so low in mass 
that record wear drops to a new low. However, to work 
at its best it requires a great tone arm. $55.00.
PE 2038 has that vitally needed tone arm. This well 
built automatic turntable is our most gentle unit. Its 
free moving arm allows the light weight Shure 9 IED 
cartridge to accurately follow the delicate ecord 
groves. The PE has very low rumble, a very steady speed 
that can be adjusted for pitch, a damped cue control, 
variable 15 stylus adjustment, and a very important sens
ing device which prevents the stylus from laying the 
turntable mat when no record has fallen. With base, 
$150.00.
PREENER record cleaner imparts no residue to your 
records. It also helps to reduce the static charge which 
attracts more dust to the record. $4.00.
The list price of these three items is $209.00 
} THE SALE PRICE IS $139.00 ^
Traditional assembly, checkout, and service by opus 
one is included. Master charge, Bank Americard, and 
trade-ins accepted.
OPUS ONE
"Where you leave a little bit smarter than when 
you came in."
downtown pgh. 
Oakland
400 smithfield 
3519 forbes
281-3969 
621-9777

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, September 19, 1972Page 5
0C-MU Admission Policies Changing
By Joan McGuskey
Labor Day dawned, and on CMU cam
pus a form of life known as freshman 
gradually gathered in strength. However, 
after the preliminary rituals of registration 
and frat barbecues, this new creature was 
quickly absorbed into CMUs mainstream. 
Whether he is praising or condemming his 
choice of CMU as his birthplace, the 
average freshman is here through the in
vitation of CMU Admissions, under the 
auspices of Mr. William Elliott.
Mr. Elliott was appointed Director of 
Admissions in 1971having already served 
as Associate Director in 1970. He is a mem
ber of the National Association of College
Admissions Counselors, and feels that the 
role of the university Admissions office is 
changing. Elliott fells that the point is to 
admit, not reject, prospective studnets, and 
that CMU is still not being as fully utilized 
as is possible. This feeling may account for 
a certain laxing in the old admittance 
requirements. Minority students, whose re
cords, says Elliott, are like no others on 
the campus, are being admitted through 
CMAP (Carnegie-Mellon Action Program) 
in an attempt to broaden the range of 
students at CMU Seventy- some students 
originally rejected last spring were invited 
to attend this fall after a reexamination of
their records. Each one, said Elliott, 
had some strong point, and were trying 
to build from there. The point is to give 
students a change. Some arent successful, 
but many are. Many who-several years ago, 
might not have been allowed to try.
As far as applications, H&SS was up 
about 1% from 1971, engineering and 
science was down about 10%, and fine arts 
remained the same. There is still a strong 
majority of females in H&SS, and males in 
math and science, but Elliott expects a 
dramatic upsurge in female applicants to 
E&S in the next few years, due to both 
greater opportunities and greater interest.
Whether females are being actively re
cruited to previously male dominions and 
vice-versa is doubtful, but new feelings of 
sexual equaltiy are eventually expected to 
result in a more balanced pattern of depart
mental applications.
Financially, CMU is having problems, 
and Elliott readily admits that this 
accounts greatly for an easing of old stan
dards. CMU, says Elliott, like any other 
private university, is affected by national 
trends, both in society and in education. In 
order to prevent drastic and perhaps da
maging changes, slow, careful progress 
must be made. Were dealing with people, 
students, those who are todays society, 
and we change as they do. Yet hopefully 
CMU will be here long after were gone.
The Crumbling Wall 
COFFEE HOUSE
4515 Forbes Avenue--
a forum, an environment, a habitat: where walls 
between persons can be broken down
Open Friday Nites, 9:00-1:00
A cooperative program of Lutheran Campus 
Ministry & University & City Ministries
This terms' program schedule at the wall:
Sept. 22: VIETNAM: THE AUTOMATED AIR WAR 
Sept. 29: UNIVERSITY & CITY MINISTRIES' GOSPEL CHOIR
Oct. 6: McGOVERN-NIXON: THE ECONOMIC QUESTION
POLITICAL DIALOGUE & FORUM: McGOVERN-NIXON 
REPRESENTATIVES
CAMPAIGN RESUME AND PROJECTIONS 
HALLOWEEN PARTY AND PUMPKIN CAROLS
Nov. 3: ABORTION
Nov. 10: SEX & SEXUALITY
Nov. 17: THE WOMEN'S MOVEMENT
Dec. 1: COMMUNAL LIVING
Dec. 8: CHRISTMAS CAROL PARTY
Dec. 15: OPEN NIGHT FOR SINGERS AND POETS
All scheduled programs begin at 10:00 p.m.
Oct. 13:
Oct. 20: 
Oct. 27:
BRIN6 US YOUR 
ARTWORK
EVEN IF YOU'RE NOT A FINE ARTS MAJOR
Below is the schedule for first semester. Fill out an Exhibition Request Form 
for EACH show in which you wish to exhibit. Return form BY Sept. 22 to 
Skibo Information Desk for the Students Gallery. Information of all kinds is 
available in the Gallery.
OCT. 9-21
Large Group Show for all Painters. (All kinds of paintings for the walls.) 
Featuring 1-3 Sculptors exhibiting sculpture (for the floors).
OCT. 23NOV. 4
GALLERY BENEFIT EXHIBITION. Judged shoe. Cash awards. No medium 
restrictions. Proceeds will go to the Students Gallery. More information 
coming.
NOV. 6-22
INVITATIONAL INTERCOLLEGATE COMPETITION.
Specifics to be circulated at a later date.
NOV. 27-DEC. 9
Large Group Shows of Ceramics and Weaving. Featuring 2-5 Printmakers.
( Good time to sell ). . __
DEC. 11-23
ANNUAL CHRISTMAS SALE. Open to any medium. Crafts are especially 
saleable (ceramics, weaving, metal, glass, canules, etc.) No junk, please. -,
SECOND SEMESTER: Photography Large Group Show; Ghissblowing phis 
Printmakers; Metalcrafts Large Group Show featuring painters; Ceramics and 
Weaving, Graduating Senior Class. * --- -
Judged show.
emu students gallery
5200 forbes aye.683-9105
XIa3u,O
co
SZ(Xo
CO
cco
E-tCO
O
cc
g
JHHw
PQM
ECs
OKCO
Oo
GO
H
-P
H
COOU

CCED
g
EOO
CCXoSCQ
OECCO
&Ho
CO  II 
H
HX U O   
>> CO
So<M -Po
CO
CO Sh 
<D  rH S ft O
CO
X EJ  O
CO
HXPH
scc
wcc
o
ECCO
CC
CO
CO
QoHCO
CO
a:
wCO
ED
SiS
 'cO-H 
CC T3 O  
& E
E-1 >S I
H
O  H ^
OECCO
o
A
m

&
o
E-*
(-*Ho
HH
ft
CO
P*
0
CCCQ
CO
CO
Q<

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6THE TARTANTuesday, September 19, 1972
McGovernment
By Craig Collins
January 7, 1972:
GREAT FALLS, SOUTH DAKOTA - A 
South Dakota pharmaceutical firm today 
announced the discovery of a new wonder 
drug, labelled McGovernal, which promises 
to provide remedies for many of the na
tions ills. Hoffman Labs released test data 
on this new drug, the findings of which 
reveal McGovernal to relieve economic 
distress, as well as monetary anemia. The 
drug also has short-term use as a sedative infc 
reducing aggressive behavior. Hoffman 
Labs assers that McGovernal is safe taken 
as directed and has no side effects. Studies 
on test animals show it to be less potent 
than Humphrenal, but stronger than 
L-Wallacin in general pain relief.
The Food and Drug Administration 
(FDA) requires that any new drug be put 
under a series of rigid tests using human 
subjects and only after all effects of the 
drug are known will the FDA consider 
approval of the release of the drug to the 
public.
The first test of McGovernal on humans 
will be conducted in New Hampshire some
time in the spring.
March 12, 1972:
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS - Many 
reports of accidents have indicated that the 
childrens toy known as Deflatable Musky 
Doll is unsafe for use by infants, the Fed
eral Trade Commission reported today. 
Chewing upon the doll, the FTC alleges, 
releases a chemical from the plastic body 
of the doll, causing watering of the eyes. 
Without this chemical, the body of the toy 
breaks down under slight pressure, and 
could cause injury to a teething childs 
gums.
Authorities are attempting to remove 
the doll from the market.
May 24, 1972:
SAN FRANSISCO, CALIFORNIA - The
final testing of the much-heralded wonder 
drug McGovernal showed the substance to 
be extremely effective in its use as a pain 
reliever. After initial tests in various states 
found increasing support in favor of 
McGovernal, a group of physicians strongly 
recommended the FDA to release it on 
prescription to the public. Meanwhile, the 
data on another new drug, Humphrenal, 
tailed to produce significant reason for its 
marketing. The California tests, HoffmanDebate
continued from page 1 
will be open to the public.
Mr. Benson has had a wide range of 
experience in the matter of military expen
ditures. He served as a special assistant to 
the Assistant Secretary of Defense
i Comptroller) and has been active in the 
Urban Coalition, first as Western Regional 
Director, then later as Director of the 
groups National Priorities Project, an 
effort which resulted in the publication of 
Counterbudget, a Blueprint for Changing 
National Priorities. Mr. Benson has also 
written for the New Republic, Washing
ton Monthly, and Fortune, and last 
year appeared on the Public Broadcasting 
System (PBS) show, The Advocates.
Dr. Schneider, who presently serves as a 
legislative assistant to Senator James 
Buckley of New York, is an economist 
with a background in monetary and inter
national economics as well as national se
curity policy issues. He has been a con
sultant to Hudson Institute, engaging in 
research on the implications of future mi
litary technology, strategic nuclear force 
exchanges, and other matters related to 
national security and economic policy. Dr. 
Schneider was also co-editor and con
tributor to Why ABM? Policy Issues in 
the Missile Defense Controversy.
Labs (developers of McGovernal) feels, will 
convince the FDA to approve the drug in 
July over Labor Pharmaceuticals Hum
phrenal.
The FDA must still run its own tests on 
the drug to assure its safety and effect
iveness. So far, no noticable side effects 
have been linked to use of the drug.
June 18, 1972:
SILVER SPRINGS, MARYLAND -
L-Wallacin (also known as KKK-2) was 
disapproved for release as a new medicine 
by the Food and Drug Administration to
day. L-Wallacin claimed to act as a stim
ulant, promoting the work ethic and in
hibiting passive activities such as bus riding. 
Its stimulating effects were found to have 
potential for addiction: in one case a sub
ject was discovered shooting-up 
L-Wallacin in order to get a high.
The FDA has ordered all samples of 
L-Wallacin to be withdrawn from circu
lation.
July 10, 1972:
MIAMI BEACH, FLORIDA - Hoffman 
Labs of South Dakota today announced 
the approval of McGovernal, a pain re
liever, by the Food and Drug Admin
istration (FDA). This action was taken at a 
special meeting convened by the FDA to 
determine the better of the drugs Mc
Governal and Humphrenal, the latter de
veloped by Labor Pharmaceuticals of 
Chicago. LP President George Menial in
sisted that the approved drug had adverse 
effects on monetary circulation, and would 
not endorse its use.
The rejected chemical is the second 
time Humphrenal has been disapproved by 
the FDA. LPs Menial stated he would re
luctantly withdraw the drug from all 
further testing.
July 23, 1972:
WASHINGTON, D.C. - The director of 
the Food and Drug Administration, Jack 
M. Anderson, voiced his suspicion con
cerning the release of McGovernal, a new 
drug developed by Hoffman Labs this year. 
Anderson, after deep research, found one 
ingredient of the pain-relief product to be 
unstable and to break down with repeated 
exposures to light.
This substance, called Eagletoxin, 
has been defended by Hoffman Labs as 
being 100 percent stable in combination 
with the other compounds of Mc
Governal..
July 27, 1972:
WASHINGTON, D.C. - Hoffman Labs 
of South Dakota, under recent public 
pressure condemning an ingredient in the
McGovern
continued from page 1desperately needs.
McGovern didnt visit C-MU because, 
according to Lincoff, he lacks the time to 
start visiting all this countries campuses. 
But even without an appearance by the 
candidate, or an organized effort by his 
campaign headquarters, Carnegie-Mellon 
University is actively participating in the 
presidential contest of 1972.
This is the first in a series of articles concerning the Presidential candidates approach to the C-MU community.Draft
continued from page 1 
which time'they were assigned a lottery 
number. Nineteen year olds whose number 
is called are then reclassified I -A while the 
will remain 1-H.
Dean Williams reports that a student 
who is dissatisfied with his classification 
has the right to appeal it within 15 days 
whether or not there is any outstanding 
reason for a change in his status. While an 
appeal is pending, he cannot be inducted.
newly-released drug McGovernal, today an
nounced the substition of a different inert 
substance replacing Eagletoxin. The latter 
compound has been accused of having a 
tendency to decompose in certain sit
uations, making the drug thereby unsafe, 
contends FDA director Jack M. Anderson.
The new vehicle for the medication wil 
be Shrivilar-M, a liquid found in many 
cough remedies and formerly an ingredient 
of a drink mix called Kennedy Ade.
September 2, 1972:
MIAMI BEACH, FLORIDA - The latest 
Gallup Poll findings report that American 
still favor the use of alcohol over the legal
ization of marijuana, or pot. In a 
selective nationwide sampling, the poll 
found 60 percent of the respondents were 
for the control and use of only alcohol, 30 
percent favored legalizing marijuana to 
some extent, and 10 percent felt neither 
should be available for consumption.
The poll also indicated a new trend de
veloping, that of drug users switching from 
narcotics to alcoholic drinks. Pot Heads 
for Southern Comfort is one group of this 
nature in existence, with others forming 
throughout the United States.
Any substance classified as a drug by
the Federal Drug Administration is, of 
course, subject to the approval of the FDA 
before such a substance can be made avail
able to the public.
September 6, 1972:
PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA 
And you, students, poor oppressed thou
sands of C-MU, you become the FDA in 
the November American Olympics. Mc
Government might be a great success; if 
you vote for him, and if he is elected, 
situations may improve vastly. But it may 
not. There is always disillusionment hiding 
within the structure of a fnan elevated the 
position of super-hero.
Childrens aspirin isnt better than Alka 
Seltzer just because its orange-flavored.
ARE YOU . . . Male, 21-30-yrs.? 
HEALTHY? 150-200 lbs.? NonSmoker? Interested in earning 
extra money on weekends? . . .
IF YOU ANSWER "YES" to all of 
the foregoing questions and de
sire further information, please 
send name, address and tele
phone No. to:
BIODECISION LABORATORIES 
Hotel Webster Hall 
4415 Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213
Fall 
Campaign 
Issues 
Forum*
FALL CAMPAIGN ISSUES FORUM 1
Wednesday, September 20 
MILITARY EXPENDITURES
7 pm Skibo Ballroom
CAN THEY BE SUBSTANTIALLY REDUCED?
ROBERTS. BENSON:
WILLIAM SCHNEIDER:
Mr. Benson has wide ranging experience in matters 
of military expenditures. He served as a special 
assistant to the Assistant Secretary of Defense 
(Comptroller) and he has been a member of the 
staff of the Urban Coalition. He edited, Counterbudgt, A Blueprint for Changing National Priorities.
Dr. Schneider has been a staff economist and con
sultant at the Hudson Institute and is presently a 
legislative assistant to Senator James Buckley 
with special responsibility on matters of military 
expenditures and strategic arms limitation.
OAKLAND HARDWARE & TOY CO.
CMUs Convenient Headquarters 
fot Hardware
9> Desk Lamps * Key Service Artist Brushes 
Hot Plates * Poster Paints * School Supplies
3606 Forbes Avenue OAKLAND Phone 621-0923

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, September 19, 1972Page 7
MAKE CMU HAPPEN AGAIN 
FOR McGOVERN
TO END THE WAR, TO END ALL THE KILLING, 
AND KEEP IT ENDED. 
TO BRING THE POW'S HOME. 
TO CREATE A FULL EMPLOYMENT ECONOMY, TAX EQUITY 
AND A JUST DISTRIBUTION OF INCOME. 
TO INVEST IN INDUSTRIES OF PEACE. 
TO MAKE AMERICANS BELIEVE IN EACH OTHER AGAIN 
BLACK AND WHITE, YOUNG AND OLD, 
STUDENTS AND HARDHATS, LEADERS AND PEOPLE. 
TO BRING AMERICA HOME TO ITS GREAT POSITIVE VISION 
OF OPENNESS, DEMOCRACY AND COMPASSION.
Our nation cannot well endure four more years of Nixon. He has expanded 
the most merciless air war in history; he has depressed wages while inflat
ing profits and now contemplate a national sales tax that wil increase the 
burden on lower and middle income people; he has exploited the divi
sions and ensions in our society (remember Kent State? remember Jack
son State?); he stage-manages national policy to suit election-year pur
poses.
We need your time and resources to keep McGovern's goals alive.
We here announce a CMU student, staff and faculty campaign to give 
campus and community support to McGovern. Together we will promote 
discussion of the issues, get out the vote, and contribute all that we can.
We will hold a first meeting on Wednesday, September 20, at 4:00 P.M. in Skibo 
Lobby. Beyond business, the subject of the day will be McGovern's pro
posals for technology and the economy. Come if you can, but in any case 
work for McGovern.
Paid for by
CMU STUDENTS, STAFF, AND FACULTY 
FOR McGOVERN
(For a single person, contributions up to $50 may be listed as itemized de
ductions in your '72 tax; up to $100 for a couple. For a single person, up 
to $12.50 may be taken as a tax crediti.e., subtracted directly from your 
'72 tax; for a couple, $25.)
for further information call
McGovern Headquarters683-8300
or Dave Demarest* CMU x466
home phone: 363-5485
? I will work for McGovern. Q I cnclose a contribution.
Name_________________________________________...__________________home phone: ___
Home address____________________________________________________business phone:_______
Make checks payable to CITIZENS FOR McGOVERN and return to:
McGOVERN HEADQUARTERS 
229 N. Craig St. 15213

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, September 19, 1972
//
Makauiskm Orchestra Zo Perform
Ramadan" Worthwhile 
Musical Experience
By John Craun
This weekend C-MU students have an 
opportunity to hear one of the latest, and 
finest, supergroups around when the 
Activities Board presents the Mahavishnu 
Orchestra at Soldiers and Sailors Hall on 
Saturday, September 23 at 8:30 P.M. Here 
is a brief description of the band (suffice to 
say they must be heard to be believed) for 
those who may not have heard of them and 
their incredible music.
The Mahavishnu Orchestra is not, as 
some might interpret, the John McLaughlin 
Quintet. All five musicians in the band are 
strikingly singular. Yet McLaughlin is none
theless an inspiring figure; he indeed emits 
the essential energy of the band. After all, 
the band is titled after the holy name given 
McLaughlin by his guru, Sri Chinmoy. And 
even more, the music altogether becones an 
extension of McLaughlins life, or rather, is 
his life itself. Its true force is divine, and 
believably so. It is an experience of plea
sure and energy, and yet sincere and exhilirating worship.
Not that his brother artists exemplify 
his same Eastern ferver exactly, yet each 
individually and in communion with the 
other (and with the audience) summons 
the spirit, the Inner Mounting Flame, the 
fervor that is not simply Eastern but is 
universal, immediate, and at times tangibly 
cosmic. In their live performances this fer
vor is starkly apparent: these men are 
virtuosos and true artists who have easily 
transcended commerical perspectives to 
attain a higher spiritual level.
The Mahavishnu Orchestra concert this 
weekend is a definite must for anyone 
who appreciates music of high quality. 
People who have already heard them know 
what I mean.
The band is comprised of McLaughlin 
on guitar (of course), Billy Cobham on 
drums, Jerry Goodman on violin, Jan 
Hammer on piano, and Rick Laird on bass 
guitar. All five are truly phenomenal 
artists. McLaughlins speed, stamina, pro
found lyricism and his very presence in 
sound all display his sublime mastery of 
the guitar. His solos are suplimented by 
brilliant performances from Goodman and 
Hammer and by the ingenious and teasteful 
use of electric sound-benders. Drummer 
Cobham shines just as brilliantly with a 
display of fleetness, imagination, and sheer 
energy that regularly draws the audiences 
best applause. Throughout it all, bassist 
Laird stands rock-solid -- a from foun
dation never to be taken for granted. All 
the members have palyed with a variety of 
excellent musicians in the past: 
McLaughlin and Cobham with Miles Daivs, 
Hammer with Elvin Jones, and Goodman 
with The Flock, an excellent band that has 
received little of the attention that they 
deserve.
By Steve Perkins
Recorded in Stockholm, this album is 
doubtless a product of the Scandinavian 
jazz underground scene which began when 
large numbers of lesser known American 
jazzmen became disillusioned with their 
status in America and went to Denmark 
and Sweden to find a more appreciative 
audience.
The basic format of the album is Jayson 
Lindhs brilliant flute playing over an afrolatin rhythm section whose sound is often 
not unlike modern soul music. Stylistically, 
Lindh sounds more like Jethro Tulls Ian 
Anderson than Herbie Mann. His impro
visations consist of sharply punctuated 
riffs, runs, and trills strung together rather 
than the even linear developement of a jazz 
player such as Mann. His technique, how
ever, is by far superior to Andersons, and 
shows a strong classical background.
Most of the cuts on the album are 
Lindhs own compositions and they show 
considerable musical sophistication. 
Lindhs writing draws heavily on Middle 
Eastern music and classic sources as well as
Mahavishnu
"Dream" A Nightmare?
Julio Vera 
Most of us who recall last years visit of 
the New Shakespeare Company of San 
Franciscos As You Like It remember 
that it was an overbearing, overacted and 
sometimes prostituted performance. This 
year they returned with almost the same 
intent. A Midsummer Nights Dream was 
like you never saw it before and never want 
to see it again. And though we are sure that 
we were entertained we were also dis
tracted by deviations; outbursts of right 
on come here baby, where the hell are 
you, and most irrelevant of all what 
fools the white folks be. Really. This de
vice along with the attempt to engage the 
audience into the play died late in the 
sixties, and died a good death at that. Aud
ience response should be elicited not by 
devices but by sheer imaginative perfor
mance.The action of this Saturday afternoons 
energy burst was, it seemes, an attempt 
to release the characters from the stilted 
bonds of the theater to some new kind of 
freedom. By going overboard they lost 
most of the true concentration required of 
an actor. Thus they weakened each other 
and themselves. Lack of talent was made 
up by overacting.
This misdirection was reflected by the 
actors who let themselvesiall into this pat
tern. Of the characters who seemed to have 
some feeling for the play Demetrius (Jock 
Scowcroft) and Bottom (Lester C. Jones) 
ranked high. Others had their moments but 
let -themselves fall into the routine. The
worst by far was Puck (Michael Hays) who 
butchered the brightest character of the 
play and turned him into a stale jumping 
bean. He was closely followed by Lysnader 
(Kevin Gardiner) whose strained voice has 
improved little since last year and whose 
mechanical expressions made him look 
more like a third rate rock singer than a 
love-lorn youth. The most difficult mem
ber of the case to evaluate was (Sandra 
Pappas) helena. Her sometimes exciting 
and funny talents reverted to upstaging and 
interrupting the others, especially Demetri
us.
The craftsmen, who worked well to
gether and gave us the only highlight of the 
drowsy afternoon may have been helped 
by the contrast offered by the dead fairies 
who were not even fair and the shallow 
team of Oberon (John Woodbridge) and 
Titania (Connie West). The fairy scenes 
lacked the fantasy which they deserved and 
for which they were intended.
We liked seeing the play in the Fine Arts 
open theater and some of the make-up 
(some, mind you) but we are sure Margrit 
Roma (Director) had very little to do with 
that. Surprisingly enough the audience 
seemed to enjoy it throughout, clapping 
and offering a standing ovation. Perhaps it 
was because they were eager to hurry them 
on and just stood u up to leave quickly, 
but that is what we would like to believe. 
It took us a while to wake up from this 
bland nightmare. Perhaps we misunder
stood Ms. Romas purpose, maybe she did 
want us to sleep.
jazz and rock. His pieces are usually based 
on two short themes greatly contrasting in 
rhythm which are stated at the begining 
and elaborated on alternately throughout.
Loading Ramp, the first cut on the 
album is fairly typical of the Jayson Lindh 
approach. The bass begins, establishing the 
rhythm as tight and complex from the start. 
Lindh them comes in with a crisp, riff-like 
melody, joined by the electric guitar, 
drums, and congas which weave a fas
cinating tapestry of counter-rhythms.
About half way through the cut, 
guitarist Kenny Hakansson takes a solo 
which is tastefully wah-wahed though not 
technically brilliant. Lindh also plays elec
tric paino on this cut and frequently 
doubles with the flute. In Daphnia a 
lyrical theme is introduced by flute and
cello which is then repeated over congas. 
This is soon contrasted with a hard driving 
counter-theme propelled by the full 
rhythm section. Outstanding in this cut is 
the interplay between Bobo Stensons 
rather free form electric piano, Hakanssons fuzz guitar and Lindhs fluttering 
flute.
My Tulip is a renaissance sounding 
piece in which the flute is double-tracked 
and sometimes plays in canon with itself. It 
is accompanied only by hand clapping and 
tamborine.
Lindhs Middle Eastern influences are 
quite evident in Tuppa. But even though 
the original melody sounds very Middle 
Eastern and tablas have added to the en
semble, much of this rather long cut con
sists of nebulous piano and flute impro
visation which would sound a lot like free 
form jazz if not for the rock-solid bass and 
drums underneath.
Benitos Rabbit begins with a running 
theme which easily conjures up the image 
of a rabbit. This is alternated with a funcky 
bluest Much of the flute is double-tracked 
on this cut also.
Ramadan is introduced by Lindhs 
classical sounding piano. The music is again 
quite Eastern in flavor, with tablas pro
minent. It is in the form of a fantasy with 
several themes being introduced and ela
borated upon.
.Love March, that old Paul Butterfield 
goody, here becomes a showpiece for un
usual instrumental effects. One flute track 
imitates a a shave drum, one plays the 
melody nd one plays fife-like trills and 
runs in the high register.
Lighthouse is a piece of funk a la the 
Rolling Stones, refined and elaborated 
upon by Jayson Lindh. Kenny Hakanssons 
guitar is again prominent.
This album has shown Jayson Lindh to 
be a brilliant and imaginative musician; one 
who will probably become an influence on 
the American music scene as will others of 
his countrymen when America comes to 
reckon with the native jazzmen Scan
dinavia has produced. The African in
fluenced rhythmic complexity of Lindhs 
music also exemplifies a trend that many 
American rock and jazz oriented groups are 
begining to follow, a trend which will pro
bably continue in the future. But, in
fluences and trends aside, Jayson Lindh/- 
Ramadan is a very worthwhile musical ex
perience and is highly recommended to 
anyone seriously into jazz, rock, or classi
cal music.
The Craftsmen confer in "Midsummer NigM's Dream" which was enthusiastically received by the
student audience.
Photo By: Ed Levine

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, September 19, 1972Page 9
While Judith Crist 
Is On Vacation...
By Frederick Gormley
You are about to read, I hope, some
thing you arent normally accustomed to, 
unless you read The Village Voice and Jill 
Johnstons articles, which are criticisms of 
current dance theatre. What Johnston did 
was to weigh relevances, and in her judg
ment her being gay is more important to 
her readership than her views on the dance 
(incidentally Johnston is one of the better 
dance critics).
And so goes this column, in that I too 
am gay, and that being so necessarily colors 
what entertains, offends, impresses, and 
stimulates me. But, and I stress, my sex
uality is one facet of my being, and when it 
influences my opinion, it will do so strong
ly, just as when it is of no consequence it 
will not. More often, the former will be the 
case; as an activist I am acutely aware of 
who I am and what it means.
And it means, specifically, I will tend to 
emphasize films that deal with the gay per
son either chauvinistically or sym
pathetically.
So you may read this as a warning of 
my articles in weeks to follow and if you 
are appalled at the thought of a homo
sexual being literate in THE TARTAN, you 
might as well turn the page and look for 
more appealing reading. However, this 
paper doesnt carry Ann Landers.
Here, in the briefest way known to man 
(generalization), I will give you an example 
of my tastes. Over the summer, 1 watched 
too much television and sat through too 
many movies too long (however, I some
how missed The Garden of the 
Finzi-Continis, so if it returns let me 
know). I was not captivated by any con
vention; neither the Democrats atrocious 
scheduling (McGoverns acceptance speech 
at three a.m., and the Gay Rights Platform 
Amendment debate at five in the morning, 
maybe to avoid embarrassing more con
servative constituents), nor the Republican 
presentation of A Clockword Harangue. 
What with Frenzy (over-rated), The 
Godfather (overlong) and the Burtons 
(overweight and slumming in the years 
worst release to date, Hammersmith is 
Out), it would seem the summer was 
slower than Ohios balloting at the Dem
ocratic Convention.
However, I was impressed by enough 
things to balance out the seasonal horrors. 
First, there was Glenda Jacksons death 
scene in Elizabeth R, which I caught in 
rerun. And there was on particular late 
movie 1947s To Each His Own - that 
was twenty years ahead of the current 
trend of fidelity to costume and period 
trapping.
The smaller treasures were Mel Brooks 
Bic Banana commercials; The Electric 
Company, Naomi and all; The David 
Steinberg Show but only for David Stein
berg and not his cumbersome guest-list; 
Cabaret, which still fascinated me for 
the three-and-a-half times 1 saw it, and two 
Warhol films, Lonesome Cowboys and 
Flesh.
More recently, 1 set out for the Kings 
Court and Everything You Always Want
ed to Know About Sex* *But Were Afraid 
to Ask. My impressions are those of a 
novice to Woody Allen films, as I always 
was doing something else when Bananas, 
Play It Again, Sam, and Take the 
Money and Run came to town. Now, 
other critics who. are veterans of the Allen 
madness seemed to agree that Woody had 
finally defined his limits, and that the new 
film was a necessary lesson for the film 
maker. But there 1 sat, not too virginal, 
knowing fairly well what to expect. What I 
liked particularly were two episodes. The
best was a kinescope of a T.V. panel show, 
Whats My Perversion? A' wicked satis
faction is to be had at the recognition of 
panel-show regulars playing out the si
tuation with all the characteristic banality 
of, say, Whats My Line? - Pamela 
Mason, Robert Qf Lewis, and the emcee 
(here I became hysterical) Jack Barry. The 
other top segment was one of those in 
jokes with film cultists-an answer to a 
question about frigidity done up as an Ital
ian art film. It was all there-the illegible 
subtitles, the non-existant super-elegant 
types, the stark modern backgrounds, the 
two-shots, basically every trick known to 
Antonioni.
Before I saw the movie, I laughed aloud 
imagining the insanity as friends tried to 
describe them, whereas I only smiled at 
much of the visualization. The idea of a 
giant breast ravaging the countryside 
creaming everybody to death (one of the 
segments) is brilliant in concept, you might 
say; but actually seeing it, you might 
change your mind. The breastwas a sound 
-tracked, camouflaged balloon. I know, I 
know, how else were they to do it? Still, I 
cant help but think the same disappoint
ment would result if you were to trans
mogrify Mrs. Agnews Diary from Nat
ional Lampoon into film. The written 
would most likely be funnier than the 
filmic, for the screen and the page do in
deed have different degrees of allowance 
for imagination.
Try to see ETYAWTKAS**BWATA at 
the Kings Court, anyway. You have two 
bonuses due you. One is an award-Winning 
animated short called The Crunch Bird, 
and theyve attached a teaser for the up
coming film version of Man of La 
Mancha. You can wonder all the way into 
December, until the films actual release, if 
Sophia Loren will equal Joan Deniers stage 
Dulcinea, and if even Peter OToole can 
come acceptably close to Richard Kileys 
performance.
Things like this dont give me insomnia.
Playhouse Opens 
New Season
By Nonie Dempsey
As the Pittsburgh Playhouse opens its 
doors for the 1972-73 season, once again 
professionalism is the thing. Thanks to a 
bit of mothering by Point Park College, the 
Playhouse, for the second consecutive year, 
is a fully professional Equity company 
with (according to S. Joseph Nassif, 
Executive Producer) a lot of professional 
theatre in store for Pittsburgh. FIDDLER 
ON THE ROOF, as of July the re
cord-holder in Broadway runs, is a safe 
choice for a first offering. The Playhouse 
rendition opened September 9, and will 
continue its run through October 15. HOW 
THE OTHER HALF LOVESWhos Afraid 
of Virginia Woolf?, Last of the Red Hot 
Lovers, Forty Carats, You Cant Take It 
With You, A Streetcar Named Desire, 
Childs Play, and Carousel complete the 
season. Although hardly exciting fare in 
the revolutionary, experimental theatre 
sense, the repatoire is an interesting and 
varied selection of the tried and true - from 
Neil Simon to Tennessee Williams to 
Rogers and Hasmmerstein.
Borchures, Group Sales and single tic
kets can be had by calling the Playhouse 
Box Office 621-4445.
RAVISHANKAR
HEINZ HALL
One Performance Only
SUNDAY, 
SEPTEMBER 247:30
20% DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS 
AT HEINZ HALL BOX OFFICE with I.D. card
Student price
$5.50 Orchestra, Grand Tier, Dress Circle.........$4.40
$4.50 Orchestra rear, Family Circle..................$3.60
$3.50 Gallery ......................................................$2.80
Discounts to groups of 20 or more.
Call Phyllis Cohen, 281-8185
Campus Camera Headquarters 
FOR ALL YOUR 
PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS
Film 
Processing  Equipment
CAMERA EXCHANGE
Student Discount on Most Items
Blw swhcufwm. 
OAKLAND3711 Forbes Avenue 
SHADYSIDE5432 Walnut Street
Phone: 683-2181 
Phone: 683-8900
S. T. A. G. ANIMATION
DOHERTY HALL 2210
September 22nd  7 and 9:15
PANASONIC
Radios  Stereos 
T.V.'s  Desk Lights 
Fans  Clocks 
Tape Players  Etc. 
Low Prices  Free Delivery
Your on campus sales rep. 
will be happy to assist you.
Call him at: 344-8274
WORSHIP
EFwm.wanx bR 
LUTHERAN 
CAMPUS MINISTRY
Sundays: 10:30 a.m.
LUTHERAN UNIVERSITY 
CENTER CHAPEL 
4515 Forbes
?
6:30 p.m.
HEINZ MEMORIAL 
CHAPEL 
Pitt Campus

---------------------------------------------------

r
Page 10-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, September 19, 1972

UWL
UL&instaxL
rchesirai
teenW. b<f 
CMUL  ACTlVlll
Editor+++
^oldet <ai Sait ot 
DOZEY,H
OXaami
licket availably at: CMU kibolnfo. Ded< TUt tuden Uriiorv TXiene 6tdnt Umoi
Salutatati,
vSepl.2^
S-OOmriucfl 
#200 wi-thkCMO/l-D.$3.00withoai 
tj.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, September 19, 1972Page 11
Football Tartans Downed 
22-0 In First Test
The speculation about Joe Gasparellas 
Football Tartans ended Saturday with a 
22-0 loss to Franklin and Marshall. The 
veteran CMU defense lived up to 
^expectations and kept the Tartans in the 
game.
The brand new CMU offense, in a break 
with tradition, didnt fumble and didnt 
score. This was only the second time in ten 
years that the Tartans failed to score.
The first half of the game was a tough 
defensive struggle. Although the Diplomats 
gained 170 yards, CMU shut them out until 
^the final two minutes of the second period. 
Two screen passes and a mixup in the de
fensive secondary on a quarterback rollout 
put F&M on the score board.
Throughout the first half the Tartan of
fense sputtered. The offensive line couldnt 
adjust to the stunting F&M defense, whose 
experienced linebackers shut off the Tar
tans, allowing just 13.yards rushing in the 
0first two periods.
In the second half more ineffective of
fense and fatigue finished the Tartans; be
cause of numbers, CMU has 5 or 6 people 
playing both ways.
The third quarter was a repeat of the 
first two until Keith Dukes, an F&M safety 
returned a Jim Allera aerial 40 yards for a 
TD. The rest of the game was the same 
#with the Tartan offense stalling and the 
Diplomats adding a Field Goal and another 
TD.
Despite the loss there were a few bright 
spots for the Tartans. Due to PAC rules 
that limit the total number of games and 
scrimmages, this was the first real test the
Tartans have had. The team made surpri
singly few mental errors for the first time 
out. The CMU defense was tough all after
noon in particular John Rodi, who played 
both ways and Robert Scott, who inter
cepted a pass. The big problem facing 
the Tartans is jelling its offense. CMU 
couldnt even move on F&Ms second 
string. Unless Joe Gasperella can work a 
miracle or tow, CMU will have a long, long 
season.
With two weeks to prepare for the home 
opener against Oberlin perhaps CMU can 
make some much needed improvement.
ACOUSTIC RESEARCHSpeakersat4Hfa4ttCcUlcf 
ncduccd frucc&f
Also Speakers, Amplifiers, 
Turntables, Stereo Compon
ents by Dynaco, Pickering, 
Scott, Empire, Acoustic Re
search all at comparable 
reductions!
SEND FOR PRICE LIST!
fidelity tit house
WRITE BOX 1290, DEPT.
POINT PLEASANT BEACH, N.J.0B742
s. ? .
C-MU Soccer Team on the way to Saturday's 1-0 victory over Gannon
Photo By: Greg Nickel
BACK DOOR
UNIVERSITY COFFEE HOUSE
3rd Big Year 
FRIDAYS 9-1 a.m.
&ODEF SHALOM BASEMENT
Entrance at 5th and 
Mo re wood Parking Lot
No admission charge 
entertainment 
food

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, September 19, 1972
continued from page 1
of $450,000 from the Richard King Mellon 
Foundation shortly after the complation of 
the Westinghouse experiment at South 
Park, has made studies for transportation 
systems as varies as Skybus and the ALaska 
pipeline. TRI, combining the strengths of
PAT attorney David Craig
Mexican Tour
The Great Mexican Escape is being 
sponsored by the Carnegie Mellon Act
ivities Board in conjunction with Duquesne 
and the University of Pittsburgh. The 
roundtrip charter jet flight, which costs 
$145, will leave Pittsburgh for Acapulco on 
December 26, 1972, and will return from 
Mexico City on January 4, 1973.
The land package, an option you have 
to take only if youre the type that likes to 
wander in the Mexican desert by yourself, 
costs $104 and includes first class hotels in 
Acapulco and Mexico City, breakfasts, and 
dinner upon arrival at Acapulco, and Mex
ico City. A big New Years eve party in 
Mexico city, and the transportation from 
Acapulco to Mexico City are also included.
If you are interested in joining us in 
Mexico, then sign up today! In order to 
reserve space, you must have a $60.00 de
posit in by September 25, and the balance 
due by October 25. To reserve a place for 
yourself, or for more information, come to 
the Skibo Information Desk.
BETOS PIZZA
Pizza, Hot Hoagies
11 pm-1 am M.F, 4 pm-1 am S-S
682-8656
RUGS
for loss
with your ID Card
lOOO 9x12 Rugs 
S15 S19 S29 $49
oteo ixt*. 12x12s, 12x15% e*c.
 WHOLESALE FURNITURE 
BEDROOMS, LIVING ROOMS, ETC 
AVAILABLE AT NEARBY SHOWROOMS
Director Chair* Bwtterfty Chain, 
Lompt, ale. Larger Furniture thru 
WhtbaU Showrooms.
CHASES
5424 WALNUT STREET, SHADY SIDE
OPEN DAILY 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. 
(Saturday 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.)
For Information ... Call 421-1025
the Architecture department, GSIA, and 
CIT, studied the feasibility of the Westing
house design for PAT under a federal grant 
for transit development and recommended 
it to the Port Authority. Dr. James Philip 
Romualdi, Professor of Civil Engineering 
and -Director of TRI, explains that the de
sire to provide service at 2 to 3 minute 
intervals throughout the day determined 
the design of the system. Conventional 
transit uses large capacity vehicles, schedu
ling them less often during periods of low 
demnad. Skybus would use multi-bus trains 
during rush hours and single buses at other 
times, never altering the scheduling.
TRI found that the small size of the 
individual buses would obviate the heavy 
steel wheels of traditional transit systems 
while permitting sharper curves, thus sim
plifying route planning and right-of-way 
procurement. The track design is geo
metrically flexible, says Dr. Romualdi, 
so it adjusts better to its environment.
Asked the reason for public opposition 
to Skybus, Dr. Romauldi suggested that 
frequent description of the project as 
innovative may have frightened people, 
particularly in view of the high degree of 
automation proposed for the system. And 
of course theres an inevitable amount of 
opposition to any public works project: 
public housing, public services or trans
portation, he said.
Leonard Alan Rapping, Professor of 
Economics at CMU, has spoken to various 
civic organizations in opposition to Sky
bus. He is also the author of what he judges 
to be the best thing written on Skybus in 
Pittsburgh so far, an article that appeared 
in the Pittsburgh Fair Witness on January 
14, 1972. Dr. Rapping listed three main 
reasons for his opposition to the project: 
(citing widespread public opposition, he 
charges that a small group of men in the 
Duquesne Club decided what would be 
best for the rest of Pittsburgh), he suspects 
that certain corporations profited from 
land speculation at the site of a proposed 
downtown terminal, and he feels that 
Skybus will serve only 5% of the commu
nity at a price that, if the system were 
extended to the entire community, would 
cost every family in Allegheny county 
$350, perhaps doubling the tax rate. If it 
will fall on us like manna from heavem, we 
certainly need a good transportation sys
tem /saidJ^rJ^agjMng^^^
Dr. Leonard Rapping, vocal opponent of Skybus
cant afford it. We need to spend our 
money for better schools, hospitals, 
prisons. Dr. Rapping predicts that the 
BART system recently opened in San Fran
cisco will be a financial disaster, sounding 
the death knell for all such transportaiton, 
including Pittsburghs Skybus.
Professors Crain, Roumaldi and Rapping
C-MU Professor James Romualdi
Photo By: Frank Stein
all commented on the meaning that the 
public controversy over Skybus has for 
CMU students. Twenty five students 
worked on the TRI study at various times, 
and Dr. Roumaldi believes that CMU, with 
is Engineering and Public Affairs program 
and the school of Urban and Public Affairs, 
is particularly flexible in relating tech
nology to the public interest. He feels en
gineers must always look at public works 
projects to see how best to present them to 
the public for consensus, and wants to see 
speakers on current issues-the Ralph 
Naders, the Magruders and the legislatorsbrought to campus.
Professor Craig said he is very pleased 
with CMU. I think, with SUPA and GSIA, 
the university has contributed much more 
to the community in this field than Pitt or 
Duquesne.
Dr. Rapping couldnt recall that any stu
dent had made any studies opposing 
Skybus, noting that no large foundation 
would be willing to fund the training of 
people interested in shaking the status quo. 
The problem, he said, is that CMU, like any 
other university, exists to serve the power
ful producing people to fit into existing 
institutions and modes of thought, its the 
same everywhere, he said. ___
ARE PHONEY CREDIT CARD CALLS WORTH A CRIMINALRECORD? PIUS d Stiff f in^^aaaCl Jclll S^^
or both?
Not everyone seems to realize that charg
ing phone calls to a fraudulent credit card 
number is against the law. And that the 
law sets heavy penalties for violators.
In this state, theres a fine of up to $500 
or one year in jailor both. (In some 
states, fines range as high as $10,000, with 
jail sentences of up to 10 years.)
Modern electronic computer systems are 
making it increasingly easy to track down
offenders. And the Telephone Company 
will not tolerate fraudulent calling, no mat
ter who the offender may be.
The penalties may seem harsh for some
thing that may be done out of thoughtless
ness. But the fact remains: The law does 
not look on phone fraud as a lark.
(2) Bell of Pennsylvania
C-MU Linked to Skybus
