Graduate Admissions Written Off
Ifoy Joan Konkle
Complete failure in implementing a 
nevV computerized graduate admissions 
rocedure has resulted in a substantially 
fower number of graduate applicants than 
expected. In many cases, there was
a great delay between the time that infor
mation was requested and the time it was 
deceived by prospective graduate students -- 
Sometimes this delay would amount to two 
or even three months. The main reason for
the delays is that this year a new system 
for handling the mailing of graduate infor
mation was instituted by William Elliott, 
Vice-Provost for Enrollment Planning in 
charge of graduate CIT and MIS admis
sions.
Previously, all requests for catalogues 
and applications were handled by clerical 
personnel. This year, the admissions files 
were to be computerized using the same 
program that has successfully worked for 
undergraduate mailings for the past four
years.
Unfortunately, this conversion was not 
done as easily as expected. The computer 
was to be ready to handle the mailing at 
the beginning of the year, yet work on set
ting up the program and processing the 
information was not done until February. 
Some applications were being mailed after 
the tentative admission deadline of Feb. 
2nd. According to Elliott, the computer 
now holds 80 percent of the graduate data. 
When asked whether alternative plans
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213
Pitsb urg uh,r enylva ,r 1lv5at 22
were available in case of problems during 
the transition to the computer system, El
liott replied, No.
The impact of this years episode is 
large and widespread.
Dr. Angel Jordan, Head of the Electrical 
Engineering Department, the department 
with the largest graduate enrollment on 
campus, commented, We are writing this 
year off and concentrating on next year s 
incoming class. There will be some good 
people coming in but the number of appli
cations are not what we expected from the 
number of inquiries. In his department, 
this year, the number of initial requests 
for information from American students 
almost doubled, from 600 last year to 
1100 this year. The number of applications 
received this year is 68, as compared to 
70 last year. Since the departments na
tional ratings improved substantially, as the 
remarkable increase in inquiries shows, 
it would be expected that the number of
Continued on page sixteenApplication Fees Waived for Athletes
by Charles Mitch
A policy for the Athletic Department 
allowing prospective athletes to apply for 
admission without paying the usual appli
cation fee has been confirmed by William 
Elliott, Vice-Provost for Enrollment Plan
ning. According to Elliott, a quota on 
application fee waivers was set up at the 
request of James Banner, Director of 
Athletics.
Carnival Planned
by Laurie Trask
Its going to be the best carnival ever! 
oromised Gail NetzlofT, Midway Chairper
son of the 1976 Spring Carnival. Her feel
ings were strongly echoed by Mike Katz, 
Chairperson of the three day, annual 
carnival. This year, it will be held from 
Thursday, April 8 to Saturday, April 10.
Many of the events are still only tenta
tively scheduled and may be subject to lat
er changes. Mike Katz explained, Were 
still working on a Friday night concert...
I And were still cramming stuff in. Some 
of the times which are definitely set are 
as follows: Midway dance, Thursday night 
from 5-7:30; midway rides open Thurs
day at 5:30; and the buggy races will be 
held from 7 to 9 am on Friday and Satur
day mornings, A huge fireworks display, 
nip, again, by Boom Boom Zambelli, will 
go off sometime after ten on Thursday 
night. Events like the tug-of-war, gazorching (throwing water balloons by means of 
a sling shot) contests will be held Saturday 
afternoon on the IM Field. All interested 
groups who would like to participate in 
these contests should sign up at the Skibo 
information desk sometime after March 
29th.
The theme for the twenty-three midway
Continued on page five
A question exists whether the policy 
coincides with NCAA (National Collegi
ate Athletic Association) and PAC (Pres
idents Athletic Conference) policy, Elliott 
commented.
Two regulations appear to be involved. 
One by the PAC states that in the recruit
ment of students a prospective athlete shall 
not receive preferential treatment. The 
NCAA Constitution states An institution 
shall not waive, pay in advance or guaran
tee payment of the admissions fee unless 
such a policy applies to other prospective 
students generally.
Sanford Rivers, Associate Director of 
Admissions, explained that the policy was 
not in violation of any regulations because
the waiver of the application fee is not 
being done solely for athletes, other 
grams such as C-MAP and Advanced
Placement/Early Admission waive the fee 
for its applicants, this allows athletics to 
Continued on paoe five
r're wrong if we say we'll pick up the cost of your application, Sanford Rivarv
Irresponsibility of Rules ChairmanForces Senators to Delay Elections
Kat*. Carnival Chairman
by Debbie Rosenkrantz
Elections for Student Senate and Stu
dent Government Elections were moved 
back officially on March 8, at least five 
days after the de facto postponement that 
occurred when Senate placed an ad in last 
weeks TARTAN stating elections would 
be held on March 30 and 31. The motion 
passed with over two thirds of the senators 
who were present and voting in favor. 
While last weeks story in the TARTAN 
stated that it was decided by an open fo
rum to move the elections back, what 
actually happened was that Don Simon 
chairperson of Student Senate miscalled 
the vote of March 1, saying it had passed 
when it had failed. None of the senators 
who were there caught the mistake. (The 
minutes were not released until over a 
week later.) On Friday, Marph 5, Don tried 
to call the TARTAN reporter who covered 
the March 1 meeting. The reporter was 
reached on Saturday and was told that the 
motion needed to be reconsidered This 
mistakenly was not understood to mean 
that it did not pass. Jerry did not ask the 
TARTAN to remove the ad they had 
placed even after the mistake was realized, 
virtually forcing the senators to okay the 
later date as of March 11.
Student Senate Rules Committee had 
finally put up posters announcing that 
petitions to enable ones name to be placed 
on the ballot are available at the Informa
tion Desk. This was thirteen days after the 
chairperson of that conlmittee, Jerry DiGennaro was contacted by the TARTAN 
on February 28 for a story on elections 
where it was pointed out that there had 
been no publicity.
Elections and petitions had been moved
back to March 16 and 17 at the February
9 meeting because enrollment information 
was not available from the Registrars Of
fice. The information was needed to deter
mine the number of seats available on 
Senate. Jerry did not want to put petitions 
out without all the information the candi
dates might need because it is difficult to 
contact them and they have taken a peti
tion. When petitions finally became available, the due date they specified was March 
9, when they were actually due on the 
second. In order to be turned in the con
stitutionally required two weeks before the 
elections (which were then scheduled for 
March 16.)
On February 26, Don called Jerry and 
informed him that he was extremely up
set that there had been no publicity about 
Continued on page five
Jackson Speaks for Black Week
by Jacatyn Barbour
What was Black Week 76? It was a 
week for and about black people, presen
ted by SPIRIT, the Black Student Union 
on campus. It was a week set apart from all 
others to acknowledge and appreciate 
black accomplishments in America. It was 
a time for the black students on campus to 
become acquainted with not only the ad
ministration of CMU and influential blacks 
in America, but also with each other.
The week began with an informative 
panel discussion on issues of concern to the 
black students at CMU. The panelists inclu
ded Walter Cathie, director of financial aid; 
William Elliott, vice provost and director 
of enrollment planning; Dr. Marion Oliver, 
director of C-MAP; Earle Swank, dean of 
student affairs; Charles Williams, dean of 
residence life; and Dr. Cordell Richardson 
who served as moderator. The issues dis
cussed were financial aid, the status of the 
black fraternities and sororities, enrollment 
procedures, the present and the future role 
of C-MAP, and housing. As in most panel 
discussions, a considerable amount of 
time was spent debating the issues, howev
er, the administrative panel did not commit
itself to any affirmative action.
The speech delivered by the Honorable 
Maynard Holbrook Jackson, mayor of 
Atlanta, Georgia, highlighted the weeks 
festivities. Mayor Jackson addressed a stan
ding-room only crowd in 7500 Science Hall 
on March 4, 1976. Blacks Beyond the Bi
centennial was the topic of his lecture. 
Jackson stated that we, as a nation, should 
recognize our 200th birthday, but not cele
brate it: we should assess the past and
make a conscious effort to go forward. 
After his speech, Jackson entertained ques
tions from the audience. When asked who 
he would support for the presidency, Jack
son stated that although it is too early to 
analyze and choose a candidate, he will 
support Georgian representative Julian 
Bond should he choose to run. Jacksons 
opinion of Andrew Youngs support of 
former democratic, Georgian governor 
Jimmy Carter for the presidency was ques
tioned. Our Congressman Andrew Young 
has endorsed Carter; Young is a man I res
pect. was the answer Jackson gave. As 
for presidential hopeful George Wallace, 
Jackson stated: It is not impossible that 
Wallace can change his stripes, but it is 
Continuad on page sixtaen

---------------------------------------------------

3iCa 2odpx d97d916Pitsb urguh,r
editors note
*>
From the Athletic Illiterates
Playing by the Rules
By allowing prospective athletes to apply to CMU without paying 
the usual admissions fee, the university is probably violating PAC 
regulations. Conference rules specifically prohibit preferential treat
ment for athletes during the recruitment of students. The whole process 
of having the Athletic Department fee waivers clearly shows such 
preferential treatment. Arguments that no rule is being broken because 
any applicant can have the fee waived merely by claiming financial need 
doesnt explain why Jim Banner, the Athletic Director, felt it was 
necessary to ask the Admissions Office for a special quota of fee 
waivers. If the athletes are simply asking for the fee waiver, as any 
other applicant can do, why is there a special quota instead of handling 
these requests the same way as everyone else? It is obviously preferen
tial treatment when a special process is set up for handling athletes 
waiver requests.
Still unknown is how the waivers are handed out. Are students just 
asking for the waivers or are the coaches telling recruits they don't have 
to pay the fee? Sanford Rivers of the Admissions Office pointed out 
that it would be wrong for the A thletlc Department to follow this latter 
process. Neither Banner nor Head Football Coach Chuck Klausing 
would talk about how the waivers are handed out. Both insisted they 
couldnt talk about that because it was an admissions policy which the 
Admissions Office would have to explain. But the Admissions Office 
commented to the TARTAN that only the Athletic Department could 
explain how the waivers were handled. When Klausing was told this he 
still refused to talk about the matter, insisting that only Jim Banner 
could explain the Issue.
If the fee waivers are completely above board there is no reason 
why the Athletic Department should refuse to explain the practice. 
With circumstances so suspicious, Jim Banner had better explain the 
waiver quota in full to avoid getting into trouble with the PAC. It 
would be unfortunate to have CMU suspended from the conference 
over a $15 application fee.
Charles Mitch, Managing Editor
It's probably just a phase I'm going through.
letters
We the Class of 76 ...
When the Development Office contacted a group of seniors late last 
semester in order to get their opinion on a new senior gift program, the 
overwhelming student response was extremely negative. The students 
felt that the program would be unsuccessful if not down right detrimen
tal.
Recent graduates are usually plagued with extreme financial 
conditions. Loan payments become due, drawing a substantial portion 
of beginning salaries; large capital investments are necessary, such as the 
purchase of an automobile in order to drive to and from work each day; 
and, for many students it is difficult to find a first job. Given the 
typical situation for a recent graduate, the group of seniors felt that 
any solicitation by the university during this time would probably not 
result in substantial funds while it could contribute toward the develop
ment of bad feelings toward the university which would seriously affect 
future fund raising efforts. f
Despite this initial input, the senior gift program went on. 
(Development explained that they had been given a budget by Dr. 
Cyert and were thus committed to the program regardless of the 
students opinion). The only decision that had to be made was how. 
Development encouraged student participation, but this was seriously 
lacking (since the students werent in favor of the program to begin 
with). Eventually, posters announced that Seniors should check their 
mail boxes where they were to discover:
Our considered belief is that mere discourse has not and 
will not provide for our success. We, the members of the 
Class of 1976, intend to meet a need rather than speak 
of one.........
We, the undersigned, petition you to join our effort.
Return your signed Declaration, and together, we the 
Class of 1976 will be long remembered for our forethough t on behalf of our successors.
Unfortunately, the Class of 1976 was not remembered long enough 
even to sign the original declaration. Out of the sixteen student 
signatures under this proclamation, six were freshmen, one was a 
soph more, four were juniors, and only two were actually members of 
the class of 1976 (two names were sufficiently garbled so as to be 
indiscernible). In other words, the senior gift proclamation - which is 
not identified in any way as originating from the Development Office - 
is an example of misrepresentation. How can a project which cant 
even get more than two legitimate original supporters be expected to 
succeed. The university is using the name of the class of 1976 in vain; 
showing no respect for their opinions, just their money.
Elections are Coming! 
Editor:
Ah yes, election time is draw
ing near and the campaigning 
has begun. I wonder, is Elliot 
Popowitz seeking re-election to 
Siudent Senate in hopes of con
tinuing as treasurer or perhaps 
even as President? I an ferring 
to his letter to the editor which 
appeared in last weeks issue of 
the TARTAN - a very clever, 
but desperate attempt to gain a 
few last minute brownie points.
Is the atrocity he speaks of 
really the allocation of the activ
ities fee, or rather his distorted, 
unsupported and factually incor
rect view? If he wai paying less 
attention to his private Swiss 
bank account and more on the 
facts, he would know Tech Fly
ing Clubs total membership is 
36, of which 11 are presently 
flying members. The Flying Club 
does own its own airplane. But 
it does not receive support from
Student Senate for operation of 
the airplane; only for office sup
plies and publicity (as other 
clubs do). When the Flying Club 
fell into financial straits, it ap
pealed to Student Senate (until 
this year the Flying Club never 
requested or received a cent). 
The Finance Committee felt that 
a loan could prevent this long 
existing club from dissolving. 
Mr. Popowitz failed to say he 
missed his committees meeting 
at which this important decision 
was made.
Why should Mr. Popowitz be 
so opposed to a loan? This is 
nothing new- groaps such as the 
Jazz Ensemble have had loans 
granted in the past. Would he be 
happier if the money were given 
to the organization rather than 
lent to it? With a loan, Student 
Senate never really loses the 
money and organizations can 
indeed benefit.
But Mr. Popowitz says groups 
such as the radio station have
been left begging. Its hard to 
consider nearly 10 per cent of 
our 100 thousand making do 
on funds below levels accept
able.
How about the campus com
munity? Mr. Popowitz just 
might find people willing to see 
more money allocated to the 
smaller organizations if for ex
ample, it meant learning to fly 
for free or at tremendously re
duced cost.
Yes, it may be true, Mr. Pop
owitz, that the best way to cov
er-up an atrocity is to omit, er, 
admit it. But you may keep this 
addage in mind as well: elabor
ate explanations for nonfacts are 
the cotton candy of reality - i 
mouthful of fluff but an empty 
stomach.
Tony Fine
President, Tech Flying Club
NOTE TO READERS ANO ADVER
TISERS: Because of Spring Recess, 
the next issue of the TARTAN will 
not be published until April 6,1976
Volume 76tartan
March 16, 976Number 22
Editor in Chief 
Gary Singer
Managing Editor:Charles Mitch 
Busi ness Manager: Thomas Kirkland 
News Editor: Debbie Rosenkrantz 
Entertainment Editor:Randell Hunt 
Trapeze Editor: Rick Costa 
Sports Editor: Elly Zimmerman 
Photography Editor: Elliot Popowitz
Staff Photographers: Tim Fabian, Mary Kay Groupe, James Johnston, Kathi Leichter, Mark Segal, Fred 
Shamlian, Carl West, and Paul Williams.
Copyrighted 1976 by the Carnegie -Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit 
or withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for pubication. Funded in part by the Student Govern
ment of Carnegie -Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo.50; {4121 621- 
2600 extension 656 or 481. Business Offices: Ski bo 52; [4121 682-4557.
Gary Singer, Editor in ChiefALL RIGHTS RESERVED

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-March 16, 1976-Page 3
news comment
\ EU FROn THE TO?
During the past several years, 
some of us on the Carnegie-Mellon campus have been waving 
the banner of liberal-profes
sional education. The origins of 
the phrase are obvious: the national reputation of this univer
sity for excellence in under
graduate education rests mainly 
on the success it has had over 
the years in preparing its stu
dents for the professions - in 
engineering and science and in 
the fine arts. Liberal-professional 
education was at the core of 
the famed Carnegie Plan.
The phrase liberal-professional education can be under
stood in two ways. It can be
understood to mean a vigorous 
mixing of oil and water, a cur
riculum that consists of four 
parts down-to-earth vocational 
training and one part humanistic 
flavoring (or vice versa). Alter
nately, it can be understood to 
mean a genuine penetration of 
professional studies by concern 
for the development of skills and 
competences. Clearly, it is in this 
second way that we want to un
derstand liberal-professional edu
cation on our campus.
Since the time of Plato, and 
perhaps before, it has always 
been agreed that certain sub
jects of instruction are liberal, 
while others are professional.
But completely different sub
jects appear on each of the two 
lists at different times. The 
Romans included architecture, 
medicine and agriculture among 
the liberal, or liberalizing, arts; 
while in the 9th and 10th cen
turies (closer to our own times?) 
only grammar, logic, rhetoric, 
arithmetic, geometry, astronomy 
and music made the list. Music 
but not painting, astronomy but 
not physics, grammar but not 
creative writing, rhetoric but not 
history - interesting if not some
what unfathomable distinctions.
The oil-and-water view of the 
relation of the liberal to the pro
fessional is based on the premise
that skill is a dirty word, and 
that if something is useful it can
not be liberal. The alternative 
view is that liberal education is 
not aimed at the storage of 
knowledge, but at the acquisi
tion of the skills needed to live 
as a professional person, a citi
zen and a human being. In this 
view, a professional subject 
should be taught only if it can 
be taught in terms of principles, 
that is, liberally; and a liberal 
arts subject only if it can be 
taught in terms of skills, that is, 
professionally. There are no sep
arate lists of liberal subjects 
and professional subjects. 
There is only a liberal-profes?
Problems with Problem Solving
Editor:
Having just read your Opin
ion Forum on* Problem Solv
ing, I find that I have a prob
lem. Since I cant believe that 
the various distinguished admin
istrators and teachers who are 
quoted therein are actually mak
ing such thunderous announce
ments of the obvious as they 
seem to be (or, perish the 
thought, are clothing the selfevident in the gobbledygook of 
social engineering-ese), I can 
only assume that I have failed 
to grasp the complexity of their 
thought. (Coming, as I do, from 
the most actively anti-intellectu
al quadrant of the campus, it 
is not hard for me to suspect 
this of myself.) But clearly I do 
need some help. Just what the 
hell is problem-solving? Or, not 
to put too fine a point on it, 
what is not problem-solving? As 
defined (if that is quite the word 
I am groping for) by your resi
dent experts, it would seem to 
cover every conceivable human 
activity from tying ones shoe to 
building an atomic reactor. Fair 
enough - and so what else is 
new? - but surely a definition as 
vast and sloppy as that is a little 
like triumphantly announcing 
that, in a daring educational 
break-through, CMLJ has discov
ered that studying sentences is a 
good way to teach writing.
I would be interested in 
knowing what courses on this 
campus - or on any other cam
pus - are not involved wit 
problem solving. Courses in 
literature (a term in some dis
repute in H&SS these days, I 
gather)? What is more of a 
problem-solving activity than 
analyzing and explicating a com
plex literary passage? Courses 
emphasing the learning of names 
and dates? The problem is to 
memorize the damn stuff; the 
solution is to regurgitate it on 
the final.
I guess my real problem is 
that, even if I were to be con
vinced that problem-solving is 
something other than a gimmick 
term dreamed up to try to give 
CMU some national image (I 
can see the story in Newsweek 
now), I remain just a touch
queasy about accenting it as the 
keystone of all education. Im 
afraid (speaking as an unrecon
structed humanist out of the 
Early Paleolithic days of Ameri
can education) I find in it a 
strong aroma of that pseudo-optimistic technocracy which sees
derstand what hes talking 
about.
Is it possible that the leaders 
of this institution dont under
stand that they are making the 
choice to turn out Rosenkrantzes and Guildensterns 
(good guys in their own way)
is a rwsTERYTO BELIVED\
C^3 LU to
OQI____CQSo
Co-fd
Life (capitalized, of course) as 
a grid of problems waiting to be 
solved -- and all of them soluble, 
if we can only build the correct 
machines.
In this shiny duraluminum 
world of tapocketa-queep com
puters and analysts who cure 
people with problems by ad
justing them to reality (and 
some day, when I have about a 
thousand hours to spare, Id like 
someone to define that one for 
me!), where does a Dostoyevsky 
go to register his complaints?
In Hamlet (a play by a wellknown problem-solver), a couple 
of problem-solvers named Rosenkrantz and Guildenstem 
come to practice their techni
ques (unsuccessfully) upon Ham
let causing him to object to their 
trying to pluck out the heart of 
(my) mystery. They dont unrather than Hamlets? The prob
lem with Hamlet is that he is a 
problem (like Socrates and Mu
hammad Ali). The problem with 
R. & G. is that theyre plastic 
men, interchangeable units, 
clicking out wholly inadequate 
answers to those problems which 
have no answers.
Who cares what problems 
they solve?
In search of enlightenment 
from those wiser than I,
James L. Rosenberg 
Professor, Drama 
Editor.
' I have a problem that I am 
desperately trying to solve. I 
have trouble writing disparaging 
letters to school newspapers. 
But after reading that crap (The 
Opinion Forum) in the last issue
of the TARTAN, I can easily 
state that the administration is 
totally idiotic. This problem 
solving maneuver is just anoth
er deception created by this uni
versity to convince students that 
they are getting more than a 
beer education for their hard 
earned champagne dollars. Carnegie-Mellon should emphasize 
a well rounded education for its 
students or change the lies in the 
damn catalogue.
Hey, I believe that I have 
solved my problem.
Fredric Freedman 
Jr. History & English 
Editor:
In relation to last weeks cel
ebration of the problem solving 
approach, I have the following 
opinion: to approach the world 
as a series of problems that have 
to be solved, is to approach the 
world in the way of mediocre 
minds. The implicit theory of 
knowledge behind such an ap
proach is anti-historical, simplis
tic, naively empiricist and, in a 
manner of speaking, pseudotheoretical. Worst of all, the 
epistemological grounds of the 
approach never seem to be view
ed as problematic in themselves.
Hector Jose Huyke 
History Department
tartan
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
POLICY
The paper will not require any 
letter writer to publish his real 
name, since protection of ano
nymity is an important way to 
encourage expression of un
popular views. No letter will be 
published unless the person 
responsible for its printing 
(the Editor in Chief) personally 
knows the writers name.
The paper reservej the right 
to withhold or edit letters but 
will try to give a fair represen
tation of all the views it re
ceives.
sional way of approaching learn 
ing.
In many ways this relation 
of professional with liberal was 
better understood on our cam
pus at a past time, when Human
ities and Social Science was a 
service divison (that bad 
word) to Engineering and Sci
ence and Fine Arts. Each of the 
colleges and departments has 
learned to live and let live; 
now each goes its own way. 
Living and letting live may be 
a good rule for international 
relations; it is a poor way to 
achieve liberal-professional edu
cation. We must find ways on 
this campus to establish again a 
concern in each college with its 
responsibilities for education 
over the campus as a whole.
I have sometimes heard the 
objection that liberal-profession
al education may be meaningful 
for students (and there are 
many) who arrive on our campus 
with clear-cut professional goals, 
but that it doesnt help those 
who have not yet found voca
tions. I have even heard it argued 
as a major virtue of traditional 
liberal arts eduction that it al
lows students to explore and 
find themselves, without prior 
commitment to a goal.
This view seems to me to 
rest on false psychological prem
ises. Contrary to common be
liefs, people do not usually find 
themselves by looking for them
selves, or by looking too much 
at or inside themselves. They 
find themselves by losing them
selves in tasks that are challeng
ing and interesting. It doesnt 
matter whether, after leaving the 
university for what is sometimes 
called the Real world, we ever prac
tice the occupations we have 
prepared ourselves for. (No mat
ter what our occupation, we 
will have ample opportunity to 
practice the skills we have ac
quired if they are truly basic 
skills.) What matters is that 
while we were at the university 
we found a way to give pattern 
and meaning to our lives there.
Students are often dissuaded 
from making serious vocational 
choices while in college by the 
fear that they are committing 
themselves for a lifetime. There 
is no such commitment. A large 
percentage of people spend their 
lives practicing professions other 
than those they have prepared 
themselves for. The commitment 
to a professional goal is a com
mitment to the here and now, 
not to some ultimate future.
That kind of commitment is 
essential to liberal-professional 
education, or to any genuine ed
ucation for that matter. College 
is preparation for the Realworld, 
but college is the Realworld too. 
The significance of insisting on 
education being both liberal and 
professional is that this kind of 
education can give purpose to 
study, and can make the four 
years at the university a part of 
real life, and not just a postpone
ment of living.
Herbert A. Simon
Prof. of Computer Science t Psycn.


---------------------------------------------------

3iCa 8oTHE d97d916Pitsb urguh,r
announcements
7nnv 7a0a.0-n. :-yy 0i;a fyisa n. Pitsb
'Ig uh,rg -. 0ba R0lma.0 Fntv cnl.s-y 
7nnv ynsi0am -. 0ba yn55S nD Pnta:nnm 
Eitma.Ag 5a0:aa. 0ba bnltA nD W!'I iv 6 
T!II fv i.m r!II fv 6 W!'I fvM
dba tavi-.mat nD 0ba BuIIMII tnnv mafnAN
-0 wB,TMIIz -A 0n 5a fi-m 5S Pitsb 'Ig 
uh,rg -. 0ba ciAb-atKA GDD-saM dba BuIIMII 
:-yy 5a iffy-am 0n D-tA0 AavaA0at bnlA-.C 
sbitCaAM
7nnv Rayas0-n. :-yy 5aC-. i0 T!'I fv 6 
h!II fv -. 0ba R0lma.0 Fntv cnl.s-y 
7nnv n. 0ba Dnyyn:-.C miSA!
3tnAfas0-Ja Ra.-ntMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM9ft-y Tg uh,r
3tnAfas0-Ja Ll.-ntAMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM9ft-y rg uh,r
3tnAfas0-Ja RnfbnvntaAM M M M9ft-y ,g uh,r
knl vlA0 5a ftaAa.0 :ba. Snlt .lv5at -A 
siyyam nt Snl :-yy DntDa-0 Snlt .lv5at ft-N
nt-0SM UD Snlt ft-nt-0S biA 5aa. DntDa-0amg 
Snl :-yy Aayas0 i tnnv :ba. Snl itt-JaM
dba B,TMII FafnA-0 :-yy 5a taDl.mam 0n 
i.S A0lma.0 :bn talaA0A i taDl.m ft-nt 0n 
9ft-y u8g uh,rg aOsaf0 :bata tnnvA biJa 
5aa. ta0i-.amM 7aDl.mA :-yy 5a -AAlam n. nt 
iD0at 9ft-y u8g uh,rM
UR {UG1URP 9 4G7P G4 79cURP[ dba
dbltAmiS 9D0at.nn. Hl.sban. 4ntlv imN
mtaAAaA 0ba sn.0tnJatA-iy Y1 7aAnyl0-n.M 
dbltAmiSg Pitsb\ uWMi0 u2!'I -. 0ba_bat6 
ta00 7nnvM Qt-.C i Dt-a.m i.m Snlt yl.sbM 
Rfn.Antam 5S civflA 3tnCtiv 3yi..-.C 
i.m 0ba cPY P-.-A0tS cnl.s-yM
String Symposium, Carnegie-Mellon Uni
JatA-0S PlA-s Fafit0va.0M 9 miS nD sbivN
5at vlA-s i.m snisb-.C n. Pitsb 2I -. 0ba 
cnyyaCa nD 4-.a 9t0AM 4nt vnt -.Dntvi0-n. 
sn.sat.-.C DaaA i.m iffy-si0-n.A siyy 
EantCa EtnAAvi. nt 3ily 4nOg xO0M W,IT 
nt 8''M
7aftaAa.0i0-JaA nD eURd9 i.m 0ba 3aisa
cntfA :-yy J-A-0 0ba cPY civflA n. Pitsb 
2h0b i.m 'I0b 0n Afai; 0n fanfya -.0ataAN
0am -. AatJ-.C -. 0baAa Jnyl.0aat ftnCtivAM 
3-00A5ltCb 3aisa cntfAeURd9 taftaAa.0iN
0-Jag Llm-0b _a55 aOfyi-.am 0bi0 fyisaN
va.0A si. .n: 5a vima m-tas0yS 0btnlCb 
0ba 3-00A5ltCb nDD-saM Rfas-D-sg ma0i-yam -.N
Dntvi0-n. n. aCsb ftnCtiv -A iJi-yi5ya -. 
0ba 3aisa cntfAeURd9 7astl-0-.C GDD-sa 
-. Gi;yi.mM db-A a.i5yaA -.0ataA0am fanfya 
Vn vi;a i 5a00atg vnta -.Dntvam mas-A-n.M
John P. Credne, Dean of the College of
plvi.-0-aA i.m Rns-iy Rs-a.saAg :-yy biJa 
nfa. nDD-sa bnltA Dnt A0lma.0Ag dlaAmiSA 
Dtnv u!'I 0n T!IIM
dasb 4yS-.C cyl5 :-yy bnym -0KA vn.0byS
vaa0-.C n. _am.aAmiSg Pitsb u,g i0 ,!'I 
fvg 7nnv u2g R;-5nM 9yy ita :aysnva 9 
0iy; n. tim-n ftnsamltaA :-yy 5a C-Ja. 5S 
Qn5 Qn:vi.g i.m 0:n vnJ-aA n. DyS-.C 
:-yy 5a Abn:.M F-AslAA-n. i.m taDtaAbva.0A 
:-yy Dnyyn:M
9ffy-si0-n.A Dnt Rlvvat Fntv-0ntS cnl.N
Aaynt fnA-0-n.A Dnt 0ba 3ta6cnyyaCa Rlvvat 
RaAA-n. wLl.a 2u6LlyS 'Iz ita iJi-yi5ya -. 
0ba 7aA-ma.sa H-Da GDD-sag Pnta:nnm EitN
ma.AM 9yy -.0ataA0am iffy-si.0A Abnlym f-s; 
lf 0ba-t iffy-si0-n.A i.m ta0lt. 0bav 5S 
9ft-y Tg uh,rM 3yaiAa snva -. fatAn. :ba. 
ta0lt.-.C Snlt snvfya0am iffy-si0-n. An i. 
iffn-.0va.0 :-0b 0ba F-tas0nt nD civflA 
9s0-J-0-aA i.m 0ba Fai. nD 7aA-ma.sa H-Da 
si. 5a itti.CamM
La Table Fraocaise will meet every Thurs
miS Dtnv .nn. n. -. 0ba Pnta:nnm siDaN
0at-iM 3yaiAa snva i.m yl.sb -. Snlt 5aA0 
4ta.sb :-0b lA wdb-A is0-J-0S -A Afn.Antam 
5S cPYKA cyl5 4ti.snfbn.aMz
The Film Arts and^ Friday Night Film Com
v-00aaA :-yy bnym i n-.0 vaa0-.C -. 7nnv 
'' nD R;-5n n. _am.aAmiSg 0ba u,0bg i0
,!IIM 1a: vav5atA ita -.J-0amM piJa Anva 
Jn-sa -. 0ba Aayas0-n. nD vnJ-aA Dnt .aO0 
Sait
Fafl0S 9AA-A0i.0 Rasta0itS nD R0i0a Dnt 9DN
t-si. 9DDi-tAg cbityaA 9M LivaAg :-yy 5a 0ba 
Dai0ltam Afai;at n. YR 4G7xUE1 3GHN
Uck U1 947Uc9M dba 3tnCtiv -A Dtaa i.m 
nfa. 0n 0ba fl5y-s i.m :-yy 5a baym n. 
dbltAmiSg Pitsb uW i0 ,!'I fv -. 0ba R;-N
5n _batta00 7nnvM PtM LivaAK aOfat-a.saA 
-.sylma AatJ-.C iA 9AA-A0i.0 900nt.aS Ea.N
atiy nD 0ba R0i0a nD ciy-Dnt.-i iA :ayy iA 
9s0-.C F-tas0nt Dnt cG7FR -. ca.0tiy 
e-a0.ivM Rfn.Antam 5S civflA 3tnCtiv 
3yi..-.C i.m Rf-t-0M
Flt-.C Rft-.C AavaA0at Jisi0-n. 0ba Qnn;N
A0ntag Qi;at piyyg :-yy 5a nfa. iA Dnyyn:A! 
Pn.miSg Pitsb 226 W!'I iv 0n T!II fv 
dlaAmiSg Pitsb 2'6 W!'I iv 0n T!II fv 
_am.aAmiSg Pitsb 286 W!'I iv 0n T!II fv 
dbltAmiSg Pitsb 2T6 cynAam Dnt -.Ja.0ntS 
4t-miSg Pitsb 2r6 cynAam Dnt -.Ja.0ntS 
1ntviy bnltA Dtnv W!II iv 0n T!II fv 
:-yy taAlva Pn.miSg Pitsb 2hg i.m sn.0-.N
la l.0-y 9ft-y 2'M QaC-..-.C Pn.miSg 9ft-y 
2rg Alvvat bnltA Dtnv W!'I iv 0n T!II 
fv :-yy 5a -. aDDas0M
dba 9t0 Pi0at-iyA R0ntag R;-5n piyyg :-yy 
5a nfa. iA Dnyyn:A!
Ri0ltmiSg Pitsb uh6 cynAam Dnt -.Ja.0ntS 
Pn.miSg Pitsb 226 cynAam Dnt -.Ja.0ntS 
dlaAmiSg Pitsb 2'6 cynAam Dnt -.Ja.0ntS 
_am.aAmiSg Pitsb 286 W!'I iv 0n T!II fv 
dbltAmiSg Pitsb 2T6 W!'I iv 0n T!II fv 
4t-miSg Pitsb 2r6 W!'I iv 0n T!II fv 
1ntviy bnltA Dtnv W!II iv 6 W!II fv :-yy 
taAlva Pn.miSg Pitsb 2hM
dpx Y1UdxF 497P _G7x7R -.J-0aA
iyy vav5atA nD 0ba cPY snvvl.-0S wA0lN
ma.0Ag Disly0Sg i.m A0iDDz 0n i. -.DntviN
0-n.iy vaa0-.C n. dlaAM Pitsb 'Ig i0 W!II 
fv -. R;-5n 7nnv uuM cnva 0n yait. 
i5nl0 0ba Y4_ i.m 0n bayf ntCi.-&a i 
Y4_ Alffnt0 Ctnlf i0 cPYM
cPY Rlvvat 3tnCtiv -. 4ti.sa! db-A
A0lmS ftnCtivg l.mat 0ba ilAf-saA nD 0ba 
Fafit0va.0 nD Pnmat. Hi.CliCaAg :-yy 5a 
nDDatam Dtnv PiS uI6Ll.a uW -. 3it-AM 
dbata :-yy 5a h l.-0A nD isimav-s :nt;g 
-.sylm-.C 5n0b 4ta.sb yi.CliCa i.m slyN
0lta snltAaAM 9.S -.0ataA0am A0lma.0 biJ-.C 
snvfya0am 0ba al-Jiya.0 nD i AavaA0at nD 
4ta.sb -A ay-C-5yag 5l0 a.tnyyva.0 :-yy 5a 
y-v-0am 0n uIM 3tnas0am snA0A w-.sylm-.C 
i-t Dita i.m 0l-0-n.z! BhhIM UD -.0ataA0amg 
sn.0is0 LM7M 9.0nAg Qp 22W cg aO0M 2rWg 
5aDnta 9ft-y ,M
pn: -A Snlt bait0[ pn: -A Snlt 5ynnm
ftaAAlta[ 9.m -A Snlt bait0 0-s;-.C 0ba :iS 
-0 Abnlym[ U0KA i Cnnm -mai 0n D-.m nl0 t-Cb0 
.n: knl si. fatDntv i mai0b6maDS-.C is0 
5S i00a.m-.C 0ba Dtaa bait0 Astaa.-.C 0aA0A 
-. 0ba Pnn. dn:.Ab-f 3l5y-s RiDa0S Ql-ymN
-.Cg Pitsb urg u, i.m uWM dba 0btaa miSA 
nD sntn.itS Astaa.-.C -A 5a-.C baym 5S 0ba 
_aA0at. 3a..ASyJi.-i pait0 9AAns-i0-n.g 
,Ih pnlAa Ql-ym-.Cg Fn:.0n:.M U. ntmat 
0n 5a sbas;am Snl vlA0 vi;a i. iffn-.0N
va.0 5S fbn.-.C 0ba pait0 9AAns-i0-n. nDN
D-sa i0 2Wu6ThuIM xisb 0aA0 0i;aA 2I v-.N
l0aA i.m .aamyaAA 0n AiS -A fi-.yaAAM 9fN
ftnO-vi0ayS uuT va. i.m :nvi.g 2u SaitA 
nD iCa i.m lfg :-yy 5a Astaa.am aisb miSM
cGP3YdU1E 91F dpU1U1E :-yy 5a 0ba
0nf-s nD m-AslAA-n. n. _am.aAmiSg Pitsb 
'u :ba. Y.-JatA-0S 3tnDaAAnt 9yyi. 1a:ayy 
:-yy m-AslAA 0ba lAa nD snvfl0atA i.m -0A 
aDDas0 n. fanfyaKA AayD6-viCaM dba yas0lta 
:-yy 5aC-. i0 ,!'I fv -. 0ba R;-5n _batN
ta00 7nnv i.m -A fit0 nD 0ba Rs-a.sag dasbN
.nynCS i.m plvi. eiylaA DntlvM
dpx G7E91U{9dUG1 G4 947Uc91
Y1Udk 91F 91EGH9 :-yy 5a 0ba 0nf-s 
nD m-AslAA-n. n. dlaAmiSg Pitsb ur i0
,!'I -. 0ba R;-5n _batta00 7nnv :ba. 
3tnDaAAnt Himl. 9.-Aa Dtnv 0ba Fafit06 
vaf0 nD 3ny-0-siy Rs-a.sa i0 0ba Y.-JatA-0S 
mD 3-00A5ltCb :-yy 5a 0ba ClaA0 Afai;atM dba 
ftnCtiv -A Dtaa i.m nfa. 0n 0ba fl5y-s i.m 
-A Afn.Antam 5S Rf-t-0 i.m civflA 3tnCtiv 
3yi..-.CM
CLASSIFIED
RbimS A-ma Al5ya0M 2 5amtvMM PiS uT6Gs0My
:-0b nf0-n. 0n yaiAaM 3it0yS Dlt.-Abamg 9cg 
__g Afis-nlAM B22I V ayasM w1n0 -.sM 
bai0zM 88u6hu',M
RbimSA-ma Al5ya0M u 5amtvg PiS nt Ll.a
0btnlCb 9lClA0 :-0b nf0-n. 0n yaiAaM Y.N
Dlt.-Abamg iyy l0-yAMg BuTIM rru6'TTrM
RYQHxd! PiS69lCMg 2 Qamtnnv 4lt.-Abam
9f0M Y0-y-0-aA aOsaf0 ayasM -.sylmamMg pnN
5it0 R0Mg Rl-ttay p-yy Bu8rMTIvnM ciyy 
7n5 82u6TrW,M
9fit0va.0 6 Dlt.-Abam n.a65amtnnv -.
RbimSA-maM Rlvvat Al5ya0 :-0b yaiAa iJi-yN
i5ya -. DiyyM 3bn.a rW'6Iu,2M
_91dxF! dasb.-siy xm-0nt Dnt i 0baA-A
-. xyas0t-siy x.C-.aat-.CM ciyy Pnbivvam 
aO0M 8I,M
BuI 7x_97F Dnt Aviyy Cnym stnAA n.
sbi-.g ynA0 D-tA0 AavaA0atM rWu6urW,M
7-ma 0n:itm Fltbiv 1McM :i.0am Dnt uW0b
nt uh0bM rWu6urW,M
GO HOME
Flying Home for 
Thanksgiving
Let A PhiO start you on 
your way with their shut
tle bus, to the Greater Pit
tsburgh International Air
port. The bus will run 
March 19, leaving Morewood at 11:45, 2:15 and 
4:15, and Donner Hall 16 
min. later. Tickets will be 
sold for 1.75 at these 
locations.
Morewood Main Desk Skibo Travel Center Skibo Info. Desk Hammerschlag B-104

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-March 16,1976-Page 5
.Free Applications
Continued from page one 
do it too. He added that any applicant 
with a financial need can have the fee 
waived merely by writing a letter asking 
for it, because anyone can ask for it 
theres nothing wrong with a coach waiving 
the fee for an athlete. When asked if this 
wasnt preferential treatment prohibited by 
*9 the PAC, Rivers admitted that were 
wrong if we say to the athlete that we will 
pick up the cost of your application. The 
athlete must ask for the waiver because of 
financial need. Rivers said he didnt know 
whether students were asking for the
waivers or the coaches were telling them 
they were available. When asked why a 
quota on the number of waivers by the 
Athletic Department had been set. Rivers 
explained the quota was set because the 
Admissions Office doesnt want to be 
flooded with thousands of free applica
tions. He added, it is the Athletic 
Departments responsibility to monitor 
who gets the waivers; the responsibility has 
to fall in the Athletic Office. That allows 
the coach to say let me search out the 
ones I want to give the waiver to. Rivers 
also commented that the application fee
*Publicity Failure
Continued from page one 
the availability of Senate and S.G. seats. 
Don said that he would put up posters him
self if they werent done by Friday, Febru
ary 27. Since no posters were put up, Don 
put some posters. This explains the exis
tance of the few non-eye-catching compu
ter print out sheets that appeared on
of Senate knew that the deadline had been 
moved. Also, this was in violation of a bill 
Senate passed on March 1 stating that pub
licity must be up within two days. The 
committee was given an extra day to 
allow them to send the work out to a prin
ter if they wanted to do so. Nobody at 
Senate realized that there was no one on
Senate at the March 18, 1976 meeting.Photo by Jim Johnston
campus. On March 10, there was still no Rules Committee who had the power to 
publicity despite the fact that the deadline pay for any printing expenses. Jerry did 
had been moved back until today. The not think that this mattered since he in
postponement did not help very much due tended to make the posters himself. The 
to the coninued lack of action on the part extra delay was caused by the lack of 
of the Rules Committee. Nobody outside ditto paper.
placed an unfair burden on the athlete 
whos being recruited by 10 or 15 schools,* 
while most students only apply to three or 
four schools.
When Head Football Coach Chuck 
Klausing was approached about the fee 
waivers, he declined to comment, saying 
I dont think I should talk about admis
sions policy, thats not my realm. Klau
sing was asked if he had ever told a pros
pective athlete that the admissions fee 
could be waived. He answered that I 
cant answer that. Jim Banner should 
be asked about it. Banner, the Athletic 
Director, declined to comment when the 
TARTAN first talked to him. The 
next dayr however, he was willing to 
make the following statement: In my 
opinion the PAC rule is not being violated.
I believe in athletics by the rules, both 
NCAA and PAC. I believe that athletics 
cannot be successful unless they are played 
by the rules.
During his interview, Rivers (Admis
sions) was asked if other PAC schools 
followed a similar practice of waiving 
fees. Because he didnt know what other 
schools did, he called Walter Cathie, Direc
tor of Financial Aid, who recently came to
CMU from Allegheny College, another PAC 
school. Cathie commented that Allegheny 
waived the application fee only if the 
applicant asked for the waiver and could 
prove financial need, either from the 
students Parents Confidential Statement 
or from information provided by the appli
cants high school. Cathie added that as far 
as he knew other schools in the PAC fol
lowed the same practice.
The exact wording of the PAC regula
tion states: In the recruitment of stu
dents, no member institution shall accord 
preferential treatment to any prospective 
student, who is a potential member of an 
athletic team. The NCAA constitution 
says: An institution shall not waive, pay 
in advance or guarantee payment . .. for a 
prospective student athlete, unless such
benefits conform to institutional policy as 
it applies to other prospective-grantees gen
erally, the processing fee the institution re
quires before its admissions office evaluates
a prospects application.
Apparently the waivers are used only 
for football players. Head Basketball 
Coach Dave Maloney told the TARTAN 
that he was not aware of any waivers.
"Mainstreet, USA
//
Continued from page one 
booths this year is Mainstreet" USA. 
Gail said that the booths will deal with 
places from Bugtussle, Wisconsin to the 
New York City Dump. To prevent a re
peat of last years traffic jam on the mid
way, the APhiO concession stand will 
be at one end instead of in the middle. 
Frankies Amusements will be supplying a 
minimum of eight rides, And there may 
be more, Mike hinted. The rides included 
will be the Sky Diver, Sipper, Bumper 
Cars, Yo-To, Trabant, and Ferris Wheel. 
After vacation, ride reductions for 10% 
off on a $1.00 strip of tickets will be 
available at the Skibo desk.
One problem with this years larger 
midway may be a lack of parking on cam
pus carnival week. The entire Skibe lot will 
be closed from 5 pm Monday, April 5th 
to 8 am Monday, April 12th. Mike explain
ed, People will have to .. . try to get car 
pools going, take a bus . .. Parking should 
be available on Forbes and the school me
ters and Morewood lot should be free . . . 
Buts its always tough.
SDC will be putting up a large tent by 
the football field for their Friday after
noon picnic and Saturday night dance. 
The SDC will also sponsor a free movie, 
The Three Musketeers, for Saturday night.
AB has gotten Murder on the Orient 
Express as its Friday feature for Carnival 
Weekend.
Buggy freeroll practices have been going 
on since the fall, under the supervision of 
chairperson Joan Bothwell. This year, 
twenty-four buggies have been entered 
in the two-day competition. Awards for 
the buggy races, as well as the field events, 
will be given out at a special ceremony on 
Saturday night, just before the final dance.
Entertainment will be going on around 
the midway at all times, ranging from 
mimes to small musical groups. Mark 
Chimsky, who has been in charge of getting 
the entertainment organized commented, 
Its fortunate that weve been able to 
rent the Park Players showmobile, especial
ly since this is the first year that Spring 
Carnival has had a full-scale entertainment 
program. In addition, there will be a 
performance of Scotch n Sodas original 
musical Glitz, each night at W!'IM Tickets 
will be $2.75 for students and $3.50 for 
non-students. They will go on sale soon.
With all this activity planned, it is not 
too surprizing why Mike is so enthusiastic 
about this years Spring Carnival. All the 
chairpeople have worked very hard and 
have worked well together ... Its going 
to be fun!
Goodbye 0 Lord. Im Goins lb America!
THIS FILM 
IS A
TRIUMPH."
-Liz Smith, 
COSMOPOLITAN
'Hester
Street
lPGte*
A WARM, 
LYRICAL 
CELEBRATION."
Bruce Williamson, PIAYBOY
MIDWEST FILM PRODUCTIONS. INC PRESENTS STEVEN KEATS 
CAROL KANE IN HESTER STREET WRITTEN AND DIRECTED 
BY JOAN MICKLIN SILVER-PRODUCED BY RAPHAEL D SILVER
STARTS WEDNESDAY MARCH 17
T
m

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6-THE TARTAN-March 16,1976
off into the sunset, repeating one of his 
dead wifes jokes and weeping.
The writers of this biography have made 
a sappily inept production suitable for 
rejection by Love of Life. Instead of Gable 
and Lombard they caught Gomer Pyle and 
Xaviera Hollander. The plot has the dra
matic intensity of a telephone directory 
and the humor of Sermonette. The script
by Randell Scott Hunt
The tease on the sign for Gable and 
Lombard states They ignored the critics. 
Yup. I believe it. This movie almost rises to 
the level of Lucky Lady or Beyond the 
Valley of the Dolls.
The motion picture starts with the 
death of Carole Lombard in a plane crash.
Gable and Lombard was produced by 
Harry Korshak and released by Universal 
Pictures. It is currently being shown at the 
Fiesta Theater on Sixth Street, a Cinemette 
theater.
They ignored the critics.
is loaded with historical inaccuracies. 
Carole Lombard was contemplating a di
vorce when she left on the war bond-selling 
tour that ended with her death in a plane 
crash, but the movie portrays the couple 
as the epitome of marital happiness. A 
paternity suit is invented, enabling LomA flashback shows how the romance be
tween Clark Gable and Carole Lombard 
began. The story follows the many obsta
cles to their love, mainly the refusal of 
Gables second wife to grant him divorce. 
Gable and Lombard marry and the picture 
returns to where it started; Gable ridesThey can have a great future as dress extras in the movies.
Alone & Pregnfc.it? 
CALL BIRTHRIGHT 
621-1988
CONFIDENTIAL HELP FOUR BLOCKS 
FROM CAMPUS
Y? There IS a 
.* difference!!!
J FOP:
0 (Ver 35 jrii'J
 fl AT of cipcricnct0 Ufi I and success: I SAT  Small classas
study Materials 
"yy*y?Zpyy U -:-g UM
>>:VriMc
. Corner of Center ai
ABILE AND ILDMDAICD

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-March 16, 1976-Page 7
GREEK SING '76Pitsbu Pitsbir
by David Matthews
The joint efforts of Alpha Tau Omega 
and Kappa Alpha Theta (winners of the 
mixed group category) opened Greek Sing 
1976. Following an interesting interpreta
tion of In The Mood, Zeta Beta Tau, aided 
by Chi Omega, performed some unfamiliar 
but pleasing choral blues. Theta Xi came 
next, beginning with a duet and closing
ites such as Lehrers Who s Next? and the 
transvestite climax of a Monty Python 
absurdity.
Following intermission, Delta Upsilon 
reopened the musical deluge with some 
well-blended down-beat tunes. Delta Delta 
Delta picked up the pace by performing 
four Bye Bye Birdie gems. Sigma Alpha 
Epsilon displayed powerful vocal style in 
their medley of traditional patriotic songs.
Phi Kaopa Theta. the fraternity that won Etaa; R-.C uh,r
with the entire choruss performance of 
If Ever I Would Leave You.
Up to this point the show had been 
quite conventional. All that changed when 
Beta Theta Pi entered the spotlight. Their 
adaptation of television theme scores 
added many light touches to the evening. 
Repeating the comedy idea, Pi Lambda 
Phi, cloaked in choir robes presented some 
original comedy moments. Pi Kappa Alpha 
arrived on the stage and demonstrated 
competent singing and dancing in choreo
graphed numbers from Oklahoma. Comple
ting the first half of the show was Delta 
Tau Delta with renditions of humor favorPhi Kappa Theta (winners of the best 
fraternity award) did a precisely harmon
ized trio of musical portraitures. Numbers 
from the cute You 're A Good Man Charlie 
Brown were adroitly rendered by Delta 
Gamma. Kappa Sigma proceeded with a 
clever variation on the classic Dry Bones. 
Completing the evening were the freckled
faced, denim-garbed Kappa Kappa Gammas 
(winners of the best sorority award), recre
ating highlights of Irving Berlins Annie Get 
Your Gun.
Greek Sing 1976 was a novelty for Car
negie Music Hall. The diverting evening was 
a pleasurable Friday night.
The cpecial magic of the classic chil
drens tale Pinocchio, with 102 life-size 
marionettes, comes to Heinz Hall for five 
matinees and two evening performances, 
March 23, 24 and 25. Performances are 
scheduled for 1 pm and 7 pm on Tuesday, 
March 23; 10:30 am and 1 pm on Wednes
day, March 24, and 10:30 am, 1 pm and
\\v O'
Coo*'
S'
( clip and save this ad )
r
by Cheryl Lawson
The soft stage lights shone down on the 
slender man: the battered, beflowered
opera hat, the dark red lips puckered in th 
white cheeks, the familiar striped pullover 
and the taut loins and muscled arms as 
they tense and relax in the common mo
tions familiar to all societies. The man is 
Marcel Marceau, the worlds greatest living 
pantomimist, in Pittsburgh last Wednesday 
nighWor one Heinz Hall performance. That 
evening, as always, his program was a 
mixed repertoire of Style and Bip panto
mimes (a character created by Marceau in
1947 whose misadventures have given him 
recognition in the Silents Hall of Fame 
along with Charlie Chaplin and Buster Kea
ton, et. al.)
The performance, a collection of 
twelve pantomimes with the presentation 
of Mr. Marceaus cards by Pierre Verry, 
lasted the anticipated two hours. But, as 
with all superb artists, that didnt seem to 
be enough time for a true appreciation of 
all the talents which this man embodies 
The old devotees of French mime artists 
longed for their favorities while young 
enthusiasts wondered why it had taken 
them so long to spring for the price of 
a ticket or two. The rest of us fit some
where in the middle.
On the almost bare stage with only 
overhead lighting, Marcel Marceau created 
such common visual impressions as a tree,
the worlds creation, a man flying a kite, 
a robot, and a first experience on ice 
skates. In these, as in all his others, he cap
tured the fear of an adventure, the conven
tionality of an object, or the automation 
and creativity in all human experiences.
In his Bip pantomimes, Marceau allows 
for the liveliness of his character to come 
out in all of his misadventures, as well as 
the insecurity which we all feel at some 
point in our lives.
Though humor is an important variable 
in Marceaus pantomimes, there is also a 
strong undercurrent of solemnity in his 
sketches. 1(1 one of my favorite works, 
Remembrances, Marceau portrays an old 
man reliving the components of his mar
riage. From the honeymoon to paternity, 
and back to old age, the audience is almost 
in tears as the young, lithe groom evolves 
into the crooked stoop of an elderly man.
One of Marceau's most famous sketches 
is The Maskmaker in which he depicts a 
maskmaker as he toys with some of the 
masks which he has made. The speed with 
which Marceau changes from the bland, 
unsmiling face of the maskmaker io the 
smiling mask to the frowning mask is al
most^ mystical. The audience sits spell
bound by his movements, completely be
lieving the positioning of fictitious masks.
Marcel Marceaus Wednesday triumph 
drew a ten-minute standing ovation. He 
proved once more that he is the master of 
mime.
7 pm on Thursday, March 25.
With words and music by Bobby Clark 
and composer Arnold Miller, this lavishly 
orchestrated and staged production won in
stant popularity on Broadway and has en
tertained audiences in major cities around 
the country.
The amazing antics of the little wooden 
hero and his friends are brought to life by 
master puppeteers pulling .the strings some 
18 feet above the stage. The effect of the 
life-size marionettes fills the stage with 
dazzling action.
Young people of the Pittsburgh area 
have an opportunity to enjoy this unusual 
treat as the tickets are popularly priced at 
$2, $3 and $4, with generous discounts 
for groups. >
In addition, a discussion 2nd workshop 
about puppeteering is being offered follow
ing each of the 1 pm performances.Pinocchio at Heinz Hall

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8THE TARTAN-March 16,1976
ghb Pr,esiuCHESS CORNER
by Joan Konkle
From the early 1800s onward, Pitts
burgh has been renown for its production 
of iron, and later steel. The steel industry 
has played such a monumental role in the 
lives of Pittsburghers that when two Uni
versity of Pittsburgh professors, Gillette 
Elvgren and Attilio Favorini wanted to 
write a historical play about the city, they 
chose to tell it by dramatizing the history 
of the steel industry and the lives of the 
people connected with it.
Any play that tried to compress the 
over 200 years of Pittsburghs existence 
into one evening would be unusual; Steel/ 
City is particularly different since every 
word the actors say was actually spoken 
by people living in Pittsburgh. The play 
was put together after gathering material
which Elvgren says is esoteric and really 
understandable only be, the so-called 
intellectually elite On the other hand 
though, Documentary theatre is a popu
list kind of theatre written literally by the 
people. It is a way of democratizing theatre 
without compromising it.
To illustrate how documentary theatre 
works, Elbgren, in an interyiew described 
a typical scene in the last of the plays 
three acts. The third act takes place at a 
steel pensioners picnic in 1975, yet by 
using flashbacks it tells about life in the 
early part of the 20th century:
Mike Zuorski, a steel worker from 
Aliquippa, has this rememberance. He said, 
I remember back in the old days, when 
the men used to go down to the Pennsyl
vania Station and would watch the women 
coming in from the old country. The woby Joesph Bartnicki 
A) Games
The games of chess in its modem form, 
Jiad beginnings in the 15th century. In this 
time period Italy was considered to be the 
center of the chess world. But in 1559, 
a Spanish priest came to Rome and defeat
ed all challengers. His name was Ruy 
Lopez ( and he has an opening named 
after him: 1 P-K4, P-K4; 2 N-KB3, NQB3; 3 BN5). A rivalry soon developed 
and resulted in the first world champion
ship match played at the court of Philip
II of Spain. Although he lost the match 
he did win two games (he needed three to 
win). Here is one of the ones he won.
Madrid 1575 WRuy Lopez 
Leonardo da Cutri
B(STIEIEI)
from sources such as letters, diaries and 
books, and from .interviews with older 
Pittsburghers about life, and the steel mills 
early in the century. Thus Elvgren and 
Favorini served as editors and arrangers, 
not really as authors of the play. The use 
of a great deal of music, nearly all of it 
taken from the time, and dancing help 
to make the play more effective and enter
taining. Steel/City, because / it contains 
only primary, orginal material can be label
ed as a documentary theatre piece.
Immensely popular in England since 
its inception there in 1964, the purpose 
of documentary theatre is to make theatre 
more inviting and more easily understood 
by the common man. It is an attempt to 
offer an alternative to current theatre,
men carried big bundles on their back and 
the men would look at the women and 
then pick the women with the biggest 
bundles to be their wives. As Zuorski 
starts to reminisce about this, a pool of 
light catches him, the rest of the picnic 
fades out, he says his speech, and then 
we see three women come in with bundles, 
and they dance with three men until they 
end the scene by dancing off the stage.
A scene like this would not be found 
in a traditionally structured play. In fact, 
Elvgren believes that Steel/City is the first 
play to have an act constructed like the 
third act.
All in all, Steel/City is a very unusual 
and innovative play; an evening of fine en
tertainment is likely.
1 P-K4, P-K4
2 P-KB4, P-Q3
3 B-B4, P-QB3
4 N-KB3, B-N5 ?
5 PxP, PxP
6 BxPch, KxB
7 NxPch, K-Kl
8 QxB, N-B3 ?
9 QK6ch, Q-K2
10 QB8ch, Q-Ql
11 QxQ, KxQ
12 NB7ch, resigned, white will play NxR 
and its all over.
Lopez published a book in 1561 on 
chess in which he suggested that you 
place your opponent with the sun in his 
eyes and only play with him after he has 
eaten much and drunk well. The tactics 
of his day, although still applicable, leave 
much to be desired.
Is it possible to win a game without 
moving a piece? Yes, it is if you move only 
pawns.
Milwaukee, 1950 WKujoth B
Fashingbauer
Most employers think twice about hiring people with criminal records.
Phone fraud will result in a criminal record.
Think twice.
Bell of Pennsylvania
., QK4ch attacking
1 P-K4, P-QB4
2 P-QN4, PxP
3 P-QR3, N-QB3
4 PxP, N-B3
5 PN5, NQN1
6 PK5, QB2
7 P-Q4 if PxN 7 .
the rook.
1... N-Q4
8 P-QB4, N-N3
9 PB5, NQ4
10 P-N6 ! resigns if PxP, then 11 PxP. 
Q-B3; 12 RxR. IfQ-Ql then 11 RxP, 
RxR; 12 PxR, Q~R4ch; 13 N-B3, 
N(if QxN 14 B-Q2, QxP; 15 PxN 
gives white 2 queens) 14 Px N (Q), Nx 
Qch 15 BQ2, Q-Ql (to protect the 
bishop) 16 KxN.U
B) Problem White mates in four
Morphy gave his opponent his queen 
rook at the start of the game and still won.
ajeui o-0 t7-8X)I e 8^
qo^-D Z -9t)-y iPfrN-O I uoijnjos
UNIVERSITY
t \J co"y--------y SERVICE
pUEpxRd ?Y9HUdk x7G cG3UxR
w9yy :nt; l.sn.m-0-n.iyyS Cliti.0aamz
HG_xRd 37UcxR
R-.Cya snf-aA fat nt-C-.iy o Ts
Ply0-fya snf-aA fat nt-C-.iy!
uA0 snfS 6 8s 
2.m6TI0b snf-aA 's 
TuA0 2s
1G xd79 cp97Ex 4G7!
snyyi0-.C  '6bnya fl.sbam 
snyntam fifat  yaCiy A-&a
Hn: snA0 5nn;5-.m-.C
?liy-0S nDDAa0 ft-.0-.C
2Ih 1M cti-C R0M rWu T8uu
[lafamatis

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-THE TARTAN-March 16.1976 VVl A
NEW YORK, THURSDAY, APRIL 2,
GLITZ BLITZ HIT!
TO ALL OUR LOYAL FANS-LOVE, LILA & MONRO 
Sharon Sloane and Mark Velander pose for the paparazzi.
byMarghret W. Flahm
lhe Golden Age of Hollywood, with all its glitter, 
glamour and heartbreak, is to be reborn, as Scotch n 
Soda presents GLITZ!, an original musical comedy. 
This tacky extravaganza will have its world premiere 
April 2 at CMU, running through April 10 in the Skibo 
Ballroom.
GLITZ! is being directed by Jan Kirschner, a PhD 
candidate in the Drama Department. Its book and lyrics 
are the work of John Mangano, a playwriting major, 
and the music has been composed by Charles Gilbert, 
also of Drama. The score runs the gamut from blues, 
jazz and calypso to Charleston, Big Apple and Broadway 
show-stopper.
The story of GLITZ! chronicles the career of Lila 
Lewis, famed Hollywood star of the thrities, and her 
husband, Monro LaRocque, who falls in love with an 
exotic Latin actress, with whom he is filming a cellu
loid version of Shakespeares greatest epic, Troilus 
and Cressida. Lila employs all her feminine wiles in 
recapturing her man, and the story ends happily for all.
In between scenes of Lilas battle with her rival, the 
audience is treated to a series of vignettes and fantasies 
dealing with life in Hollywood. There is a Madame 
Curie Dream Sequence, in which Lila imaginies herself 
to be the great lady radiologist. Naturally, she sings a 
torrid love song to a chunk of glowing hot radium, 
while a chorus line of ten radioactive cuties is rollerskating by.
The second half of GLITZ! takes place on a Holly
wood soundstage, and offers a behind-the-scenes look at 
the making of a Hollywood Musical. The entire com
pany is busy creating a movie version of The Scarlet 
Letter, in which the story is modernized, introducing 
Cheerleader Hester Prynne (Lila), whose virtue is threat
ened by an overfriendly football hero (Monro) during
a wild frat mixer. The plot of the movie begins to paral
lel the events in Lilas life, and as the two lines cross, 
the evening climaxes in the show-stopping football 
game that culminates in a marriage ceremony perform
ed under the goalpost.
The cast of GLITZ!, the largest Scotch n Soda has 
assembled in years, includes Sharon Sloane, a junior 
voice major, in the demanding role of Lila Lewis, and 
Mark Velander a& her egostical husband Monro. Helene 
McArdle plays Rosetta Rodriques, Monros paramour
1Z<r    :??s 
D.W. GRIFFITH, EAT YOUR HEART OUT! Baxter (Geoff, 
the movie-going public. ^
(and the meanest spic in Hollywood). Geoffrey 
Thompson is Baxter Stromberg, their ever-patient director, who extols the virtues of the Hollywood code in the ^ 
title song: If you cant make it good, make it big... ^ 
Give it Glitz, tinsel and tack. David Mittereder essays J 
Vernon, the young innocent- who is swept into this ^ 
raging quagmire of passion and infidelity by Lila, and 
Elizabeth Lynn 'Talmadge returns to the stage as Helen ^ 
Highwater, the walking fish, who is called upon to ^ 
write theScarlet Letter modernization, but prefers to 
take the fitfth (of Dewars). ^
The supporting cast, tackles a number of roles, ^ 
ranging from Latin caballeros to tourists, cheerleaders ^ 
and a dancing periodic chart of the elements4 includes ^ 
Janet Wieczorek, Joel Thompson, Jeff Sable, Lucie ^ 
McAllister, Tanny Nucera, Joan Carol Davis, Jerry 
Vockley,Carol Schwartzman, Ruth Butler, Jeff Harp,
Mark Spina, Mary Jane Marchut, Debbi Doerfler, and 
Claire Lee and Ellen Zoll as tap-dancing detectives.
David Fisher and T J Racho, designers of the sets and 
lighting, will be assisted by Mike Krivda and Paula 
Shubock. Dan Orlandi is assembling the lavish costumes.
Cathy MacNeal, a senior actress, has choreographed the 
fourteen musical numbers, guaranteeing at least a half 
dozen bonafide show-stoppers.
The madness sweeps campus wide today, as ticket 
sales begin at the Skibo Information Desk, and at the 
musical box office in the Baker Hall lobby.

---------------------------------------------------

"*????*?** **********TRAPEZE
THE TARTAN-March 16.1976-Page 11 
*****************
PRICE
PUTS.
xg by Claire Lee
Jan Kirschner (Director) is currently working on his 
Doctorate in Dramatic History and Literature here at 
CMU, as well as teaching a course in the Drama Dept. He 
has been directing for about 6 years (since his Dart
mouth undergraduate days), working with various 
groups, including the Pittsburgh City Players and the 
United Federation of Teachers Conference in New York. 
His involvement with Glitz began with the request by
 *
Thompson) is confident that his all-star cast will win the hearts of
***?K***M**
*****
Charlie Gilbert fGlitzs Composer) and the fact that 
he was not directing anything this year and had a great 
desire to.
In relation to Jans approach in tackling the show and 
in transcribing the text Glitz to the stage, he says the 
following: Glitz is very simply a musical which con
cerns itself with another medium, i.e. the film, and is 
set in the late 30s when grand, incredible kinds of films 
were being made-with thousands and thousands of 
extras and all those dancing girls, etc. Glitz is about 
those people and how they made movies. At the same 
time, it is kidding that form a little bit--saying how 
ridiculous the whole thing is. As a result, there is a lot 
of cleverness that runs through it concerning this; some 
of the numbers will be doing really strange, far-out 
exotic kinds of things, whenever we can, that would 
make you look at the stage and cry Jesus Christ, what 
are they doing! but in a sense also get a really good 
laugh or be really entertained by it. Glitz, in the long 
run, is pure entertainment.
In discussing the characters of this play, Jan would 
like to go for some kind of 3 dimensionality of charac
ter, exploring the objectives of text and such. In these 
characters, there is however, often only one objective 
which they pursue throughout the play. They often 
become portraits or caricatures of themselves-rather 
than real people-which is the image we have of the big 
stars anyway. He says it is very difficult for us to see 
the stars other than in the larger-than-life public 
image which they present on the screen. The stars of
THAT KILL THE LIGHTS AND ROLLTM TOWN!
The Chorus extol the virtuous life of the Hollywood groupie.
photos by Elliot Popowitz
Glitzy among them Miss Lila Lewis and Mr. Monro 
LaRocque, will often appear larger than life- and 
very deliberately so.
These people have a lot of trouble disassociating 
their life on the screen from their real life. What the 
playwright has done very nicely is that the entire end of 
the second act dove-tails to the point where the movie 
life and the actual life are going on completely parallel, 
end up together at the same point, and climax together.
Jan states that Glitz will have five weeks of actual 
rehearsal and that this is sufficient and not sufficient. 
To achieve perfection, more time, people and especially 
money are required. The show, however, will be 
extremely entertaining and an extreme amount of 
fun for all who come to see it. We have enough rehearsal 
time to make it that. The play, being from an original 
script, will not have the time, however, to be experi
mented with, as does a play being produced with 
Broadway  travelling and playing to many audiences 
around the country before the showing in New York. 
The director, composer and playwright of Glitz are 
constantly confronted with decisions and changes 
which have to be immediately made and transmitted to 
the cast. Making changes late in the rehearsal period 
leaves the actors in quite a bind, having to completely 
reorient their thinking-especially for this cast which is 
doing the show purely for fun.
Charlie Gilbert (Composer) is a graduate student of the 
CMU Drama Dept., now marring in directing. Glitz is 
his first full-length adult-type musical  He did his 
undergraduate work at the University of Delaware 
and has directed various children musicals and operas.
Terrific is Charlies summation of his GUtz music. 
I was really going from two points of view. One was 
that the music had to be totally fun, but also, given the 
fact that the play was coming from a certain historical 
or nostalgic perspective, the music had to be enough an 
echo of that period so that people will say, Yes, this is 
a 1940 number or This is a charleston number. All 
the songs sound like they were in other musicals al
though none of the songs are really plagerized.
I really didnt stick to any strict historical point of 
view in composing them. The musical styles range from 
the 20s to the 50s, so we go from something that 
sounds like Good News, the charleston, the two-step 
to something quite modem.
Ive been working steadily for 5 months on this mu
sic. Now I am involved in orchestrating and copying it, 
a lot of drudgery work. When envisioning the actual 
accompaniment for the show, Charlie is figuring on an 
8-piece ensemble. In a way its very small and not what 
I wanted. What Glitz really needs is the massive. Holly
wood studio orchestra kind of sound. It just can't be, 
however, because we dont have all those musicians 
and we just never had anybody who could orchestrate 
like that. So what I have tried to do is to create some
thing interesting, that has different musical colors in 
it, that keeps it going.
As a more serious closing statement about Glitz, 
Director Jan Kirschner says, If we can imagine back in 
the late 30s  America needed something to forget 
its troubles-coming out of a depression, entering into a 
war. The masses, the proletariat were starving for enter
tainment, looking for the release in the cinema, in these 
grand production numbers. Now that we are in the 
second depression, the post-Wateigate era, the postVietnam era, the post-hippie era, again we are looking 
for some kind of just mindless entertainment. And Glitz 
is, above all, mindless entertainment.
*91(2 *9R2TH H2LLEL JEW2SH U12VERS2TY CE1TER
BAGEL AND LOX BRUNCH
Sponsored By
Pitt Hillel Club
SUNDAY MARCH 21 11 A.M. 
HILLEL LOUNGE
315 S. BELLEFIELD, 3rd FLOOR 
315 S. *ELLEF2ELD (VE1UE ((CROSS FROM HE21Z CH(PEL)
6218875

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-THE TARTAN-March 16,1976TRAPEZE
,nyl snva15v
by John N. Callen
You ask me how this all happened? I think that I 
would have to say it built up in me; just as if someone 
had placed rocks on me while I was laying in bed, until 
they crushed me with their weight. I saw a war movie 
once, where all the prisoners were tortured by buckets 
of water dripping on their heads. It drove them wild; I 
felt that way with her. I remember the first time I got 
to know her, it had been a nice afternoon until then.
I lifted my head and laughed while I listened to some
one drive through my neighborhood in a sports car. 
Every chance he got, he pulled his foot off the clutch 
too soon, creating a loud gnashing from the teeth of the 
gears. I lost him for a moment, but then I saw him rac
ing down my street. Over-reving, squealing brakes, and 
doors suddenly slamming told me that it had pulled into 
my driveway; I was out back playing in my sandbox. My 
grandmother, who had come up from Pennsylvania to 
stay with me while my father took my step-mother on 
her honeymoon, stuck her head out the porch door and 
called to me.
Freddie, come up to the house, dear, I have a sur
prise for you. Your father and Sheila have come home!
My father had married Sheila after my mother had 
died in a grocery store parking lot accident. She wasnt 
like my own mother, who liked to be home with me; she 
worked for a store downtown. Father had met her one 
afternoon at some restaurant that he used to go to for 
lunch. While they were in the Bahamas, I got two cards 
from them: one, showing a lake front hotel (but not the 
one they stayed at), said Lovely place! Hope you are 
having a nice time, too! Wish you were here. Love, 
Sheila; the other, showing a water front picture of a 
man standing with a large shark hanging by its tail, said, 
Went fishing today and caught a small shark. Am hav
ing it stuffed for you. Wish you were here. Love, Dad 
Both of them were written by her, probably when 
father was asleep.
Freddie, my father called, come out front and see 
the new car Sheila and I just got. Youll love it. It han
dles so well.
I could hardly keep femi laughing at that, but then I 
heard her calling me. v
Come on out and see it, Freddie. Its just like the 
one that we drove on the islands. Your father was driv
ing from the airport and we went by the showroom. He 
said he was just stopping to browse, but he bought one 
right on the spot. Its so cute!
I nearly threw up; how could a beautiful sports car 
be cute! I couldnt understand why m^ father was act
ing so strangely now, as if anything he wanted, or really, 
anything that Sheila wanted, he got or did. Buying a 
sports car wasnt like him. I brushed the sand from my 
pants and walked to the front.
Well, how do you like it, Freddie, Sheila asked. All 
I could think of was the color that she must have picked, 
the brightest pink I had ever seen. When it had been driv
ing through the neighborhood all that I could make out 
of the color in the shade of the trees was a silverish 
grey, but now when I saw it, I couldnt see what made 
my father buy it.
Dont you just love the color, Freddie? my father 
asked. I couldnt answer him. I ran back to the sandbox, 
secretly laughing inside me.
He started after me, but Sheila called him back with, 
Let him alone, Justin, he obviously wants to be left 
alone. You cant go running after him everytime he 
pouts. I heard the back door shut and everyone went 
inside the house.
I had started to work on the rest of the sand castle, 
when I suddenly felt someone watching me. I looked up 
and saw my grandmother standing out past the back 
porch. She looked so small all alone, something I never 
saw before, since she was taller than me. Her hands were 
smoothing down the dress that she had made out of 
some stiff, scratchy cloth. She did this whenever she was 
standing in the kitchen waiting for the timer to go off, 
or whenever my grandfather was supposed to have got
ten home from work, but wasnt yet. I walked over and 
hugged her thick waist, her wrinkly hands brushed the 
hair out of my eyes. The veins of her hands sat on \r
of her skin, runs in the family my mother had told me 
once, and they rippled with her heart beat. I put my 
head on her chest and felt the lapel pin she always wore. 
My hair got suck on one of the stones stems and she 
carefully untangled it. When I was younger, I remember 
hugging her legs and as time passed she didnt seem to 
get older; I just hugged her higher. Right then, I wished 
I were a little taller.
Ill be leaving tomorrow morning after breakfast, 
, she said to me in a soft voice.
Why are you leaving so soon? I asked.
Your father and Sheila are home now and they can 
take care of you, she replied. And your grandfather 
must really need me by now.
Can I go with you? I asked. I dont want to be 
left alone with her.
Now dont start saying things like that, youll make 
your father feel badly, You really havent gotten to 
know her yet, anyway. Youll like her, Im" sure, when 
you get to know her.
I want to leave with you!
You have to got to school. I dont want you to say 
anymore about your leaving home now.
Ill run away from home!
No more! And when I say no more, I mean no 
more, she said lightly stamping her left foot like she 
always did when she was acting mad. She gave me a hug 
and started towards the house.
Before opening the screen door, she turned and add
ed, When schools out, Ill ask your father if you can 
come visit. She stepped inside.
You dont seem to be eating much of your meal 
tonight, Freddie, Sheila said.
Maybe its all the excitement that hes had today, 
grandmother offered.
Maybe he should go to bed early, Sheila suggested, 
looking at my father who seemed completely captivated 
by a group of peas rolling away from his fork.
Suddenly he looked up. I guess we all should go to 
bed early, he said. It has been a rather long day.
Oh, how nice, Freddie, Sheila said after I took her 
plate from in front of her.
As I went into the kitchen, I could hear her say to 
my father, How could I ever have thought that a child 
of yours could grow up without manners? Hes such a 
little gentleman.
I almost had the nerve to go out and tell her that it 
had been because of my mother and not him when fath
er spoke up, I really cant take credit for the manners 
that Freddie has. Freddies mother was a lady and ex
pected to be treated like one. She demanded good man
ners from him. Love probably would have worked as 
well.
I would like to be treated like that too, Sheila said, 
If he uses th things that she taught him with me it
would please me no end.
Grandmother brought out the dishes of tapioca pud
ding and the platter of cookies that she always made the 
last day we ate dinner with her. The cherries had bled 
over the top of the warm white pudding, creating red 
rivers on the bumpy landscape. I floppe'd my spoon on 
the stiff top layer and peeled off the skin that stuck to 
my spoon.
You shouldnt play in your food, Freddie, Sheila 
said.
I always peel off the top layer of tapioca pudding, 
eat the middle and save the cherry for the very last. 
Thats the way I eat it, I said.
Listen to Sheila, Freddie, my father suddenly said. 
Youll have to listen to her now; shes the lady of the 
house.
That night, when my grandmother tucked me in bed 
she brought me a cup of hot chocolate. You know 
your father was right, she said, about Sheila, she is 
the lady of the house now.
I dont like her at all, I said, I dont want her here 
anymore.
There was a knock at the door and in walked my fa
ther with his arm around Sheila. Her smiled curled into 
her cheeks. She almost looked lovely, lit by my night 
light, but when she bent over me to kiss me goodnight, 
I squirmed beneath her shadow. Her kiss was cold and 
wet. I wiped it off as soon as they shut the door.
When I woke up the next morning, I found that 
grandmother had already piled waffles high on my
plate. I poured a stream of maple syrup, filling the 
holes. Slowly a puddle formed under my plate. My 
grandmother lifted the corners of her mouth. Her hands 
smoothed the front of her dress.
Your father is taking me to the bus when he leaves 
for work, she said. Ill see you when you get out of 
school this summer. Will you write me until you come 
down and visit?
Of course I will, I answered.
A scuffle on the stairs and Sheilas cackling laugh told 
me that the two of them had gotten up and were coming 
down to eat. Grandmother had already set their places; 
their plates had their waffles neatly stacked, bacon wait
ed along side. She had even rolled their silverware for 
them and placed frosted glasses of orange juice on the 
table.
Sheila walked into the kitchen and poured two cups 
of coffee from the percolator. Grandmother always 
started it when she got up so it would be ready when 
the others got up. She carried the two cups back into 
the dining room, not noticing the coffee that was spilt 
on the floor, (Mother had always put saucers under the 
cups so they wouldnt drip), put them on the table, 
and pulled four pieces of toast from the stack on the 
plate in the middle of the table.
Justin and I cant stay for breakfast this mornng; 
were already late for work downtown, she said. She 
handed father his two pieces of toast and coffee and 
gobbled down hers, leaving the hard edges from her 
toast sitting in the dark, sugary slush in the bottom of 
her. cup. Freddie, be a dear and put the dishes in the 
sink before you go to school, she said while she pulled 
father to the front door by his elbow, and do them

---------------------------------------------------

? U q [ P Z  * P u
THE TARTAN-March 16.1976-Page 13
when you get back from school. The front door slam
med.
Suddenly, fathers head shot back into the kitchen 
grandmothers suitcase pulled him to one side. Freddie, 
say goodbye to your grandmother. Its time for her to 
go. Do you have all of your things packed, Mother Sterl
ing? You have to hurry, your bus leaves in 45 minutes. 
We all knew it only^ook ten minutes to get to the sta
tion.
When I got home from school that day, the house was 
quiet. It was almost scary; the only sound that I could 
hear was the grandfather clock that had been in my fath
ers family for years. It echoed through the house from 
the foyer with its click-click rhythm that I wanted to 
stop. I touched the pendulum and the noise stopped. My 
father would get really mad at me (all he did when he 
got home that night was start the pendulum again and 
change the time). Mother used to have the radio tuned 
to her dentist office music when I came home from
school. It played through the whole house. Even when 
she wasnt home the automatic timer would always turn 
it on in the morning and off at night. After she died, 
father and I let the radio run, out of habit, even though 
we didnt like the music. Now I missed the sound of the
soapy music drifting through the house. I turned the ra
dio on.
I went into the kitchen and looked at the pile of 
plates that had been left over from the morning. The 
waffles that werent eaten were already down the gar
bage disposal, so most of the mess was cleaned up. I 
opened the dishwasher door, started rinsing off the dish
es and put them inside. As I turned to put the last fork 
in, I noticed someone walking around in the yard. She 
had a pad of paper in her hand and it looked like she was 
marking something on it. It was Sheila. She had gotten 
home from work early. I hoped that she wouldnt be 
getting home this early all the time.
Later that evening after a Kentucky Fried Chicken 
dinner, Sheila had been too tired to cook, I saw the 
same piece of paper she had that afternoon. On it was 
drawn a very rough sketch of the backyard. Everything 
that was there now was drawn in blue ink, but over most 
everything were forms and words in red. I found my 
sandbox quickly; a wavering red line went all the way
around it. The red box was labeled patio. On the far 
end of the patio was another block right over the spot 
where the oak tree was that I had my fort in. This block 
was labeled barbecue pit.
A few days after I had discovered Sheilas master plot 
for the back yard, I heard my father talking on the 
phone to one of his friends, Mr. Goldfarb, who was a 
private contractor. From what I heard him say, he 
thought Sheilas backyard would be quite nice and he 
was going to have it done. I wasnt sure What he planned 
to have Mr. Goldfarb do, or when, but all I could think 
of was the new patio and barbecue pit.
There were only two more weeks of school left. 
Sheila had already gotten togethera small army of men 
who were putting in rose bushes and wooden arches, 
and building a greenhouse where the back porch had 
been. When the concrete truck came to pour the patio, 
my father told me, when the mason came to build the 
barbecue pit, it would be nearly finished.
The ir.sid of the house was slowly getting a change 
too. Most of mothers old furniture was moved down
stairs to the new family room or was taken by the Salva
tion Army. One day when I got home from school, I 
noticed that my^broken-in jeans and some football jer
seys which mother had given me, were missing.
I had the men from the Salvation Army take a load 
of your old clothes away, Sheila told me when I came 
back downstairs. This afternoon Ill take you to get 
new things.
I didnt want any new things and I really didnt want 
to go shopning with her. I told her 1 was going out back
and that I wouid go shopping with Father later.
Sheila told me that you are starting to give her 
trouble again, Father said when he got home from 
work.
I guess vou could say that, I replied, throwing a 
handful oi sand at the White Knight, one of the two 
plastic figures I had gotten from a cereal box.
TO:
Dr. M. Oliver, Dr. N. Johnson,
Mel Lewis, Gloria Hill,
Louis Overstreet and The C Map 
Staff:
People seldom say thanks . . . And when they do,
EITHER ITS TOO LATE, or you're gone___
SO WHEN WE SAY THANKS, we know it doesn't
mean you'll never be gone___
But we wish you didn't have to.
As we prepare to leave, we would like to say 
THANKS for "BEING THERE" FOR FOUR 
YEARS.
Phil, Winston and Gary 
Class of '76'
ERIC KLOSS 
with BARRY MILES 
IN CONCERT
FOLLOWED BY A ROUND-TABLE DISCUSSION:
CREATIVITY 
AND 
CONSCIOUSNESS
TUESDAY, MM2CH 23rd, 
1976 - 8 P.M. 
CARNEGIE LECTURE HALL
(ENTRANCE PARKSIDE OF LIBRARY)
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT:
NATIONAL RECORD MARTS
DUQUESNE STUDENT UNION
UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH. STUDENT UNION
TM CENTER. 5883 FORBES AVE., PITTSBURGH 15217
FOR INFORMATION. CALL 521-6000 
DONATION $3.00
BENEFIT FOR STUDENTS INTERNATIONAL MEDITATION SOCIETY

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14-THE TARTAN-March 16,1976IBAREZE
Since your mother died, youve been alone with 
yourself too much. I dont like you spending so much 
time playing out in this sandbox. What do you do? You 
sit out here and build sand castles, climb up into your 
tree-house and drop rocks on them. You should be play
ing with the other boys at school. Maybe we could even 
work on the car together.
I dont like the kids at school, I said thinking 
how my father would look with grease all over him.
I think Sheilas right, he said, maybe you will be 
b cter when youre in your new back yard. Nothing 
will remind you of the past.
With that, Father went back inside the house. 1 dug 
the White Knight out of the sand and put him inside 
his castle. As I was climbing into the tree fort, Sheila 
called me to dinner.
You seem 'o be picking at your food, Freddie. 
Sheila said. And your father told me that this was your 
favorite meal.
It was when my mother cooked it for me, I said. 
That is enough of that, young man, my father 
shouted. I will nc. have you treating Sheila like that 
and if you continue to do so, youll have big problems. 
Things were not like when your mother was here, Sheila 
is my wife and your mother now.
He had never said it to me like that before. ! ate 
the rest of my dinner in silence, looking at my plate.
When I got home from school the next day, I was 
tripped by a small, thin dog that looked as if it had 
been made out of cotton balls; its hair clumped all over 
its body. I hit the stone foyer floor and it started jump
ing all over me. Father told me after mothers funeral 
that 1 could get a dog, but I had wanted a big dog, one 
that I could run with. Sheila must have wanted this 
poodle. It was the kind of dog that would wet a stran
gers leg the minute they stepped into the house. I push
ed it away and it let out a tiny yelp.
Pierre, Pierre, dear, I heard Sheila call, Where are 
you my little one?
She found the two of us on the foyer floor; I was 
nursing a bruised knee, Pierre was still trying to lick 
my face.
Oh, precious, I hope this mean boy didnt hurt 
you. Come to Momma. The dog trotted over to her 
feet wagging its tail. I rubbed my knee.
I see youve met Pierre, she said, I hope that the 
two of you become the best of friends. As a matter of 
fact, if you want, you can take him for a walk right 
now.
I dont like little dogs, I said and I limped out to 
the sandbox.
I wanted to tell you that we were going to get a 
little dog before we got Pierre, Father said when he 
got home from work, but Sheila knew that you 
wouldnt be happy if you had known beforehand. She 
wanted Pierre to work into your heart. You know, 
youll like him when you get used to him.
You had promised me a dog of my own before.
With all the redecorating weve been doing, we really 
cant have a large-dog that would climb all over the furn
iture. Were out a lot of money into the new things 
and we cant afford to have a dog ruin it.
But you said.
Pierre stays, and that was all that my father had to 
say about the dog.
I was playing out in the sandbox one afternoon, 
building a large castle for the White Knight, when Pierre 
jumped over the side board and headed straight for the 
Black Knights castle. I had finished it the day before 
and had the Black Knight in it. Pierre started to paw at 
the walls, knocking over two of the towers. Then he 
started to mess in the courtyard. He had done this be
fore in my sandbox, but I could never catch him at it. 
This was finally the time. I took the leash that had tied 
him to the house and wrapped it around his neck a coup
le times and pulled it tight. At first Pierre thought it was 
a new game, but he soon started to growl. After a 1 ttle 
while the growl changed to a whimper and he drop ped 
over on his side in the sand. While he lay jerking on the 
ground, I dug a hole for him in the middle of the White 
Knights courtyard. I had finished building everything, 
the castle sat over him. I stepped back and looked at it 
all. Then I saw the handle of his leash sticking out of the 
sand, I had forgotten to bury it. The leather made a nice 
little circle, I put the White Knight in the middle of it.
I moved over to the Black Knights castle and cleaned 
up the mess that Pierre had made and built up the walls 
and towers that had been knocked over. I climbed up 
into my tree fort and from it I looked at the best set of 
castles I had ever built. I hoisted the bucket of rocks I 
always used for throwing at the castles from the fort. 
They were spotted by the many times they had hit each 
other. The rocks were really special to me because one 
afternoon my mother and I collected them from a 
stream. As I was getting ready to throw the first one 
down on the Black Knights castle I heard Sheilas voice 
calling.
Pierre, Pierre, darling, where have you gone, my pre
cious? Mommas looking for you. Come here, you little 
rascal.
Sheila stepped off the back porch and started looking 
all over the yard for her darling. She looked in the new
low, spreading evergreens, by the new graceful, flower
ing dogwoods, and under the new sweetly, scented rose 
bushes. She looked everywhere around the back of her 
new home, but she didnt look in the future site of her 
patio and barbecue pit. Pierre wouldnt have been 
found until Mr. Goldfarb built them both, if it hadnt 
been that she walked back to the neighbors and asked 
them if they had seen him. The hadnt, of course, but 
when Sheila returned from the back of the yard, she saw 
Pierres leash.
I found your leash, you little devil, you. Sheila 
bent over and picked up the White Knight and threw 
him into the corner of the sandbox. The leash zippered 
through the sand as she pulled on it. Suddenly, the leash 
stopped.
Somethings caught, I heard her mutter beneath 
me as she tugged harder on it. All of a sudden, Pierre 
popped out from underneath the White Knights castle 
wrecking most of it. Sheila fell backwards to the grass. 
Pierre flew through the air and landed on her chest. His 
tongue hung limply from the side of his mouth. Sand 
slowly trickled from his ear, piling up on Sheilas hand.
Sheila jumped to her feet screaming. Pierre lay 
sprawled on the ground looking like a Japanese electric 
dog whose batteries had run down. Sheila jumped into 
the sandbox and started throwing clumps of sand 
at my castle.
I dropped one of the rocks down from my tower; I 
had to fight back. It hit her on the head. She looked up 
and saw me. She lifted her hand as if to hit me. I threw 
another rock down at her, she fell to the ground. Her 
hand moved across the sand. I threw one more down 
on her. It thudded on the back of her head and rolled 
off, covered with red syrup. Her hand only twitched 
now and then, but I dropped three more rocks on her. 
The Black Knight lay sprawled out on the sand, de
feated. I had no one else to fight; I dropped the bucket 
with the rest of the rocks on her head. I climbed down 
from the tower.
She had a look on her face as if she were looking past 
me. I remember it from before, when my mother was 
laying in the parking lot after she had been hit by the 
car. The car couldnt have missed her. I had rolled the 
carload of groceries right into her, pushing her in front 
of it. They said I shouldnt feel guilty; it was only an 
accident.
Sheila still wasnt moving in the sand. They wouldnt 
say that it was an accident this time. I walked back into 
the house, touched the pendulum on the grandfather 
clock, turned on the dentist office music, and waited for 
my father to come home from work.
Gel away for the weekend
95*per day 
plus 10* per mile
Monte Carlo or similar car
Nationals low weekend rate makes it easy to drive home, 
to the ski chalet, or wherever. Non-discountable rate avail
able Friday noon to Monday noon. You pay for the gas you 
use, i.m return car to renting location. Call for reserva
tions today:
4621 Forbes Ave. (Oakland) 682-1444 
550 Grant Street 261-5500
Greater Pittsburgh Airport 262-2312
We feature GM cars.
Rate subject to change without notice.
National Car Rental
LAYER CUTS 
WEDGE CUTS CHINA DOLL CUTS PAGETS 
VOLUMETRIC HAIRCUTTING 
VOLUMETRIC PPRM
Corscs Hair People
4nt 0ba yi0aA0 -. va.KA i.m :nva.KA bi-t A0SyaA 
_a Aayy 7
rW26h8WIu2u Gi;yi.m 9Ja.la
ferru 2iilenj 23C<5tucfent 'overnment 
'president
FREE L.S.A.T. MINI SEMINAR
(Up to date information on the April test from New York)
PITT. STUDENT UNION
(Schenley Hall - Dining Room 1st. floor)
WED. MARCH 17. 1976 7-8 p.m.
Sponsored by: Legal Awareness
Presented by: Testing Prparation, Inc.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-March 16, 1976-Page 15
Moldy Slices: Manchild in the Italian Ghetto
Life is so beautiful'
-Don Vito Corleofte
by Rick Pasta
(APPLAUSE APPLAUSE) Its really great to be here 
tonight. (APPLAUSE) Its great to be here, especially 
when I consider where I come from. You are probably 
not aware of thi but I was raised in the ghetto. 
(SNICKERS) The Italian ghetto. (SNICKERS)
Were not actually poor in the Italian ghetto. We all 
have two cars: two Chevies. (SILENCE) Another thing 
everyone in the Italian ghetto has is a paved driveway. If 
youre not in construction, then you always have a 
brother-in-law who is. (SILENCE)
My most distinct memories of my youth in the Italian 
ghetto are of my schoolmates. They all wore the same 
purple jacket. It was intended strictly for fall use, but 
they wore it all during the year. The only difference was 
that when it snowed they turned up the collars. 
(LAUGHTER) They would also wear this jacket all dur
ing the school day and never take it off once. Every one 
of them always had car grease on their hands and under 
their fingernails. They had reached puberty at the age 
of three months.
I was different. I was a Prostestant in the Italian 
ghetto. Admittedly such a situation is not as dangerous 
as it would be in Ireland, but the psychological damage 
that was inflicted on me is undoubtedly irreparable. In 
all my childhood years I could never tell one nun story. 
It is impossible to be funny about Protestanism. (REST
LESS BOREDOM)
Whenever I would eat dinner at a friends, I was the 
only one who didnt cross himself. I was told the others 
did this to make their food clean. I concluded that this 
rule applied only to Italian food, however, so instead of 
crossing myself, I just refused to eat Italian food. At my 
school cafeteria, they would serve spaghetti every Fri
day. I was the only one who brought my lunch on Fri
days, which only led to further ostracization. I sat and 
watched my friends as they shoveled, with grease-coated 
hands, spaghetti wads and sauce-dipped bread encrusted 
with butter pats into their mouths. I got so sick I 
couldnt even eat the peanut butter sandwich I had 
brought for myself.
The real tests in my school were in the lavatory. If 
you could take a piss without having your lunch money 
stolen, you were all right. If you could smoke all 
through lunch period without getting caught, you were 
looked up to. The greatest challenge was if you could 
piss without using your hands to aim. If you could do 
this, then obviously your hands were now free. You 
could then rest them on your hips, which was pretty 
much standard fare, though. The class thing to do was to 
comb your hair with your free hands by using the rust
ing plumbing fixtures as mirrors. If you were really 
sharp, you could take a leak, comb your hair and smoke 
all at the same time.
My greatest desire while I was in the fifth grade was 
to be able to perform this feat. By practicing at home, 
I finally reached the point where I thought I could suc
ceed. (UPROARIOUS LAUGHTER) On the day that I 
selected to unveil my talents, every half hour I kept ask
ing my teachers for permission to get a drink of water.
I wanted to stand there for a good long time, so that 
everyone would see me.
Lunch period arrived and soon enough I was doing it 
with no hands. But then I had a startling revelation. I 
had forgot my comb. All my efforts seemed to have 
gone for nothing. I had no other alternative but to ask 
someone if I could borrow their comb. Standing next to 
me was Tony. Now Tony was the meanest kid in the 
whole school. There were rumors that he was no longer 
a virgin, while most of us were still trying to get the 
distinction between a virgin and a nonvirgin clear in our 
minds. Quickly summoning the courage, before I was 
depleted, I asked him if I could use his comb. Tony, 
who had his purple jacket on, hadnt noticed me before, 
but he did give me his comb. There were unidentifiable 
flecks wedged between the teeth of the comb, but what 
choice did I have?
I started strutting my stuff. But then I began to lose 
control and I knew I would have to use my hands or else 
piss on my pants. Now there is nothing worse than going 
on your pants in school, because everyone knows what 
you did. The only escape you have is to hurry over to 
the sink and splash water on your pants, real loudly.
SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, AND HUMAN VALUES FORUM
_am.aAmiSg Pitsb 'ug ,!'I fvg R;-5n _batta00 7nnv 
cGP3YdU1E 91F dpU1U1E 
i m-AslAA-n. nD snvfl0at lAiCa i.m -0A aDDas0 n. fanfyaAK AayD6-viCa
Scientific knowledge has deprived men and women of their privileged place in 
the universe and of the unique position among the animals. But, on the other hand, 
the understanding of the laws which govern, our minds and our bodies has given us 
new power, better health, and greater dignityvComputers challenge the uniqueness 
of our thinking, and at the same time, glorify our intelligence by showing that we 
may be able to comprehend the process of thought. Does this extoll or dimish our 
image of ourselves?
9HH91 1x_xHH 
University Professor, Carnegie -Mellon University
Pamela McCorduck (Department of English, University of Pittsburgh); Carl Stone 
(Pastor, First Baptists Church); and Herbert Toor (Dean, Carnegie Institute of 
Technology).
Rfn.Antam 5S civflA 3tnCtiv 3yi..-.C 4taa i.m Gfa. 0n 0ba Public
hadnt noticed the fate of his comb, so I surreptitious
ly fished it out and handed it back to him. He made a 
few sweeps through his hair and pushed the black curls 
into place.
What find of stuff do you use in your hair? he 
asked.
Urine.
Urine? Never heard of it. Works pretty good though. 
Im going to have to get me a bottle of it.
So I think you can now see why I am so glad to be 
out ofthe Italian ghetto. God bless you all. (APPLAUSE) 
Drive home safely. (APPLAUSE APP ^AUSE)
making it look as accidental as possible. But this downt 
work too well because everyone you meet you have to 
gradually work into the conversation that you spilled 
water on your pants and they never believe you anyhow.
I had to make a decision immediately. So I quickly 
reached down to prevent disaster, and consequently, 
dropped Tonys comb into the urinal. There it was float
ing around. I decided I would have been better off 
having gone on my pants.
Hey mother, you done with my comb? Tony ask
ed.
Just a minute, Tony. I replied. Fortunately, he

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-THE TARTAN-March 16, 1976
Self Paced?
by Elly Zimmerman
Results from the first undergraduate 
survey on se If-paced courses were released 
recently. The survey conducted by the Civ
il Engineering Departments Student Advi
sory Committee polled 77 of the depart
ments 122 upperclassmen.
One of the conclusions drawn from the 
questionnaire was that self-paced courses 
demand more of the students time than 
conventional formats. However, another 
conclusion was that self-paced courses 
adequately fulfill the objectives of subject 
matter comprehension and preparation for 
follow up courses. This indicates that the 
students did put in the time to learn the 
material.
The fact that half of the sophomores 
and one-fourth of the juniors questioned 
said they would not like to take future selfpaced courses suggests some disenchant
ment with this type of teaching method. 
Factors contributing to this attitude were 
the time requirements for the course, the 
somewhat limited contact with the pro
fessors, and the overall course organization.
Students response to a question asking 
their interest and willingness to take other 
self-paced required courses was somewhat 
negative. On a scale of one (absolutely op
posed) to fiv6 (definitely willing) the mean 
was 2.51. More favorable responses were 
recorded for their willingness to take selfpaced elective Civil Engineering courses and 
self-paced non-technical (H&SS) electives.
The survey was only distributed to 
sophomores, juniors, and seniors in the Civ
il Engineering department because unlike 
the freshmen, the upperclassmen have 
taken at least one self-paced course in 
their required curriculum.
Survey results were tabulated by two 
graduate students; Red Whittaker and Jim 
Saklas and one undergraduate; Mark Lex. 
The faculty advisor was Dr. Steven Fenves.
Black Week; A Success
GRADUATI ADMISSIONS
Continued from page one 
applications should also go up. The 
problems was easily pinpointed when let
ters and phone calls of complaint were re
ceived from prospective students. The 
Electrical Engineering Department has a 
folder stuffed with such complaints. jt is 
impossible to say how many students, 
when their application and catalogue didnt 
arrive just decided it was too much trou
ble to track them down and applied to 
other schools..
Other departments were not affected 
as severely. Dr. Francis McMichael, Head 
of Civil Engineering, stated, I can say 
there were half a dozen incidents (of 
written complaints) in our department. I 
dont know how many phone calls there 
were. I didnt handle those. Later he 
added, Ive seen more than one form letmmiita.
' HI
o
Dr. Jordan, "we're writing this year off."
ter apologizing for the lateness of the 
material.
The number of inquiries in his depart
ment was around 500 which was a sub
stantial increase over the year before but, 
unlike the electrical engineering depart
ment, the number of applications increased 
from 35" to 55. However, McMichael was 
not satisfied, Our applications arent up 
to the level that we want them to be. Im 
not saying that this is because of the ad
ministrations mailing practice. There are 
other factors involved. When asked if the 
department had been affected he replied, 
The main impact of this is that weve 
been inconvenienced. Were unsatisfied 
with the general kind of material being 
sent out, McMichael continued, We felt 
we were supplying the information to 
Warner Hall, in the form they requested. 
We assumed it was a steady process from 
there.
Dr. Traub, Head of the Computer 
Science Department stated,The problem 
is being corrected. It will not happen 
again.
Allen Strehler, Dean of Graduate Stu
dies, was last years coordinator for the 
mailing of the graduate material. Suppo
sedly the new method was initiated to 
eliminate repetitive procedure.
The delay in mailing the information 
coupled with the fact that the admissions 
material is sent by third class mail, which 
is much slower than first class, may not be 
the only reasons for the apparent decreases 
in applications; nevertheless, it must be a 
relief to everyone concerned to know that 
this problem is not expected to occur 
again.
It's
Reversible
Wow . . . this great looking 
hooded jacket is just the thing 
for spring . . . wear it rain or 
shine over anything . . . it's 
reversible and its.........
only *13
Atwood at Forbes 
681-788$
Mon. to Fri. 10-9 
Daily 10-6 ___________:_______
Continued from page one 
not impossible for elephants to roost in 
trees either. Jackson further stated that 
despite rumors that Wallace is gaining 
black supporters, the Alabama governor 
received onfy 7% of the black vote in 
Georgia; Ninety-three percent of the 
black voters had better sense! Jacksons 
declaration that he would not support 
Republican President Gerald Ford was 
applauded. Jackson stated that Fords 
veto of a bill which would have approved 
6.5 billion dollars for 600,000 government 
jobs was a deathblow to solving the unem
ployment problem, which has hit blacks 
the hardest: Theres something wrong 
when you decrease expenditures for jobs, 
but increase your military budget. One 
of Jacksons closing remarks was: I have 
trouble with all the people talking about 
welfare cheaters.and yet it is not funny at 
all. If you multiply them by billions you 
still wont have half the graft and corrup
tion that goes on in this country.
At the first Black Greek Sing, five black 
fraternities and sororities represented on 
CMUs campus entertained a crowded ball
room on March 5, 1976. The movie Claudine was mysteriously and unexpectedly 
cancelled.
On the afternoon of March 6, 1976, 
MADD won the MADD Invitational Bas
ketball Tournament, as various intramural 
teams matched their skills against one 
another. Events that evening were the 
showing of the movie Uptown Saturday 
Night and SPIRITs Annual Talent Show.
God and the Black Man, held on 
March 7, 1976, was a religious program 
featuring Reverend Loran E. Mann, pastor 
. of the Pentecostal Church of God in 
Christ, fromWilkinsburgh, and some of 
Gods Children/University of Pittsburgh 
Gospel Choir. That evening, almost eighty
students gathered to honor the C-MAP 
staff and to pay special tribute to director 
Dr. Marion L. Oliver at a semi-formal 
recognition banquet in the Faculty Dining 
Room.
President Cyert, who had originally 
been scheduled to speak to the black stu
dents on the first day of Black Week, pre
sented his address on March 8, 1976. 
President Cyert stated that Carnegie-Mellon 
is a microcosm of the real world, and that 
it is a shame that so many students leave 
here with antediluvian racist attitudes 
which will carry over into their later lives. 
He hopes that programs of some sort will 
be established at CMU to help lessen exis
ting racial prejudices, but he admits that 
there is no easy, clear-cut solution. Presi
dent Cyert feels that continuance of such 
programs such as the annual Black Week, 
along with committee and group discussion 
between administration, faculty members 
and students will probably provide much 
needed insight into the problem. After a 
short intermission, an evening of poetry 
and art was presented by the HomewoodBrushton Poetry Forum, which operates 
under the auspices of the Inner City Ser
vices of the Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh, 
and some of the black artists of CMU.
The career forum scheduled for March 
9, 1976, was cancelled. That evening, Dr. 
Vernell Lillie, Assistant Professor of Black 
Studies, University of Pittsburgh, delivered 
an address to black women.
Despite many mishaps, which occurred 
during the week such as torn down posters, 
uncleaned rooms, delayed setups by A.B. 
and teaching aids, and more importantly, 
the non-participation of the white student 
body, these events all added together to 
make Black Week 76 the success that it 
was.
Photo by Elliot Popowitz
Administrators field questions from students.
SGC Reorganized
by Joseph Bartnicki
The Student Government Corporation 
was first established in 1971 to handle 
things like building dorms and directing the 
funds from the student activities fees. 
However, it was poorly organized and sub
sequently did very little of anything. It was 
decided in January of this year to either 
dissolve the corporation or reorganize it. 
A separate group responsible for student 
business was felt to be necessary. Thus the 
corporation was reorganized to be an en
trepreneurial entity involved in any student 
business activities.
The purpose of the corporation is to 
have a separate fund available for students 
use outside of the activities fee. The corp
oration will be funded mostly by the bus
iness community. Being a nonprofit organ
ization, it has a low budget but can easily 
raise money as needed.
SGC has been given ownership of 
WRCT, the school radio station. In the fu
ture it plans to hold an Indian jewelry sale 
and a T-shirt sale at Spring Carnival. There 
are also plans for a laundry service which 
will pick up and deliver to the dorms. 
These projects will help give the students 
some experience in business enterprises.
UNIVERSITY ORATORY OP 
THE HOLY SPIRIT PARISH
Saturday Mass 
Sunday Mass
7:00pm Tech House 
10:30am Science Hall(Rm. 7500)
Lenten Daily Mass (Wed. and Fri) nnM T . u/ivx tr  \ 12:00Noon Tech House(Mon. thru Fri.) 5:00pm Tech House
LENTEN/RAVER SERVICE: MONDAYS 7:30pm TECH HOUSE
dasb pnlAa MTu2T PitCta0 Pntt-yy r2u j2( Lu

---------------------------------------------------

The Army offers college sophomores the 
opportunity to earn an officers commission in two 
years. The deadline for this years class is soon.
Apply now and once you are accepted for 
the special two year program, you attend a six 
weeks summer camp, for which youll be paid 
approximately $500. And thats not all. You may 
find yourself in the best physical condition youve 
ever been in.
Then back to college and the Army ROTC 
Advanced Course in the fall. If youve done 
exceptionally well at camp, you may be heading 
back to college with a full two-year scholarship.
for a 19 year old 
Carnegie-Mellon 
Sophomore 
to become a
i 21 year old
Am\v Officer.
For the next two years, you learn what it 
takes to be an Army officer. You get the kind of 
management and leadership experience that will 
be an asset to you in any career, military or 
civilian. You will earn an extra $100 a month up 
to 20 months. And when you graduate, you will 
have earned your college degree along with the 
gold bars of an Army officer.
The Army ROTC TVo-Tfear Program
If this is the kind of challenge you are 
looking for, you are the kind of student we are 
looking for.
Call Major Carey 621-2600, Ext. 281/282

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18-THE TARTAN-March 16, 1976
ICERS SMASH INDIANA IN SEASON FINAL
by Mary K. Groupe
The Carnegie-Mellon icers capped their 
1975-76 season with a smashing 6-3 vic
tory over Indiana University of Pennsyl
vania, on March 11 at Kittanning. One of 
the better teams in the old WPIHA, the 
Indians had narrowly defeated the Tartans,
3-2, earlier this year.
Defenseman Larry Stuever began the 
game in an unaccustomed role as center. 
By 0 :49, he had embarked upon what 
would be a four-goal scoring marathon, on 
a slapshot which drove through the goalies 
attempt at a save. It took Indiana until 
14:39 to tie it up. The Indians had just 
come off a penalty when Gary Montebell 
slapped a well-placed high shot into the 
Tartan net. But that 1-1 tie was as close to 
winning as they were destined to get.
By 9:04 in the second period, the Tar
tans had grown accustomed to their con
stantly rearranging lines, and they began 
to pour it on. Again, Larry Stuever took 
the initiative, scoring twice within 14 
seconds; both goals resulted from team ef
forts right in front of the IUP net. The 
Tartan bench applauded the Stuever hat 
trick (his third this year) by tossing a 
couple of helmets onto the line.
About a minute later, a delayed penalty 
against Mark Jannotti gave Indiana a 
chance to pull their goalie for a temporary
6-man offensive advantage. Then the In
dians had a 5-on-4 advantage while Jannotti sat in the penalty box, and a 45-second 
5-on-3 advantage when Bill Miller (called 
for holding) joined him there. An intensive 
effort in the Carnegie-Mellon zone was 
effectively blocked by Tartan skating and 
passing, and by some excellent saves by
goal:
When the clubs faced off for the third 
period, it quickly became apparent that the 
Tartans did not plan to leave the score at 
3-2.. By 2:09, a three-goal barrage had 
.stretched their lead to 6-2. Mark Janotti,
man ahead. When Indiana finally got a 
man advantage, they managed to put in 
their third goal. Some minor flare-ups and 
two penalties followed, but really that 
was it: the first Tartan victory on the ice in 
quite a while.
That ended the clubs 75-76 season. 
Mighty Mike Gallaway -- injured during last 
weeks melee with Pitt -- ran the bench on 
Thursday night; so he ends his coaching 
season at 1-0. Larry Stuevers four-goal 
streak in this game caps his season as one 
of the leading scorers.
Altogether, the victory topped off the 
season very satisfactorily, in pointed con
trast to the scuffle with Pitt which had 
threatened to put a dismal close to the 
season. CMUs final record is 4-12.
Jack Arturo (9) pushes through the IUP defensePhoto by Mary Kay Groupe
goalie Marty Bradley. But at 13:45, just 
nine seconds before the IUP power play 
was due to end, Todd Bunting successfully 
got a shot through the Tartan defense. So
1976 I.M. SWIMMING MEET
EVENTSNAMEORGAN.TIMEPLACEPOINTS
200Parker, Messersmith, Kada, VogusSAE2:01.0110
MedleyWatson, Gruss, Stutts, YacoePIKA2:01.226
RelayNelson, Grube, Wilcox, GibbsBTP34
50 Yd.WhittakerMix 3d Bag26.516
FreePuderPIKA26.924
ParkerSAE27.8>2
100 Yd.HoysanMixed Bag1:07.716
I.M.YacoePKA1:11.124
GrussPKA1:11.732
50 Yd.KadarSAE28.016
FlyStuttsPKA29.324
WallaceSAE35.432
100 Yd.CrecineMixed Bag1:02.116
FreePuderPKA1:08.724
Werner1:14.232
50 Yd.WatsonPKA34.016
BackParkerSAE34.224
DittmanMixed Bag37.732
50 Yd.MessersmithSAE30.716
BreastGrussPIKA32.724
Reppa33.032
200 Yd.CrecineMixed Bag2:20.416
FreeVogusSAE2:27.224
200 Yd.Puder, StuttsPKA1:48.1110
FreeDittman, HoysanMixed Bag1:54.826
RelayHeifer, GrubbBTP1:56.034
PLACETEAM POINTSNO. OF
SWIMMERS
1PKA447
2SAE3710
3Mixed Bag336
4BTP117
Independents2
Total32
assisted by Jeff Reh, scored at 1:06; four
teen seconds later, Matt Goldsmith took 
a shot which bounced off the goalie and 
into the net. Forty-nine seconds after that,
Matt assisted on the final Stuever goal, 
which was shot in from near the left faceoff circle.
The middle of this period, like the pre
vious two, was taken up in penalties. From 
4:35 until 9:20, there were never two fullstrength teams on the ice, as the referees 
called overlapping penalties against first 
IUP, then CMU, then IUP, and finally 
CMU. For most of this segment of the 
game, the Tartans were pi*u2r even or a
CMU FENCERS TAKF STILL UNBEATEN IN
HOCKEY CLUB FINAL STATS.
PLAYERGAPTS
Goldsmith71118
Stuever12618
Cornelius9817
Gallaway11617
Jonnatti6713
Arturo4812
Miller279
Grimm336
Fuchs123
Morse022
Wallace, S.112
Eberle011
Groupe101
Jacobs011
Reh011
Smith101
Thompson011
Wilkenson011
GOALIESGG.A.G.A.A
Bradley3.00165.33
Goldsmith0.1616.00
Johnston2.66166.01
Jacobson3.66246.55
Sciulli6.72466.81
TWOFOIL
by Gordon Morrison
The Carnegie-Mellon University varsity 
fencing team beat California State College 
of Pennsylvania 71-20 on Monday and 
Penn State University (Fayette Campus) 
53-7 on Wednesday to remain undefeated 
in foil competition with three wins. In ex
hibition matches on Wednesday*, the CMU 
men beat the Fayette women 9-0 and the 
CMU women lost to the Fayette men 10-2.
The womens team beat California 25- 
10 with Miriam Whitworth, Jenny Willis 
and Monica Gross all losing only one bout 
out of seven. The women also beat Penn 
State 84 with Miriam and Liza Hayes each 
winning three of four and Joan Gravitz 
winning two of four. California and 
Fayette each had one very good woman 
fencer that caused problems for CMU, but 
the great depth of the team has been too 
much for the competition.
The mens team beat CSC 46-10 with 
Victor Brennan and Richard Jorkasky 
winning all eight of their bouts with Joe 
Sivak and Peter Bond losing only one out 
of eight bouts. It was Joes only defeat of 
the season. Against Fayette, the CMU men 
totally dominated the match by winning 
45-3. Although the number of bouts won 
by CMU was one-sided, the individual 
scores were not as easy as the overall score 
would indicate. Richard Jorkasky, Joe 
Sivak, and Peter Bond went undefeated in 
eight bouts, while Victor Brennan, Gary 
Frankston, and Tim Hoffman lost only 
one. The match with Fayette marked the 
only loss of the season for Victor and 
Gary.
Leading CMU this season is Richard 
Jorkasky with 19 wins without a single 
defeat. Joe Sivak and Victor Brennan have 
18-1 records, while Miriam Whitworth 
leads the women with a 17-2 record.
SHADYSIDE and OAKLANDHuae 3 and 2 BEDROOM FURNISHED 
APARTMENTS MAY and SEPTEMBER
391-2744/682-2340
YOUR 
DEGREE
Permanently laminated 
on wood. Exclusive Non 
' glare Process by Lamin-Art
Co.
Available at the 
BOOK STORE 
Baker Hall
*91(2 *9R2TH H2LLEL-JEW2SH U12VERS2TY CE1TER 
MARRIED COUPLES GET-TOGETHER
WITH REFRESHMENTS
Saturday March 20 9 p.m.
Hillel Lounge, 3rd floor, 
315 S. Beliefield Ave.
315 S. BELLEFIELD AVENUE (ACROSS FROM HEIN7 CHAPEL) 
621-8875

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANMarch 16, 1976-Page 19
SWIM TEAM FINISHES FIFTH
JOT THIS DOWN
iy Ned Uber
The CMU swimmers showed significant 
mprovement n the PAC swimming and 
diving championships, held Thursday, 
March 4 through Saturday, March 6, at 
Washington and Jefferson College in Wash
ington, Pa. CMU finished fifth out of seven 
schools, improving on last years last place 
finish. The PAC is one of the countrys 
strongest small college swimming leagues, 
as evidenced by the qualifications of at 
least one swimmer in each race for the 
NCAA National Championships.
Thursday evening went poorly. John 
Rossi and Pete Dickey swam good times in 
the 1650 yard freestyle but failed to place. 
Dave Mapes swam the brutal 700 yard in
dividual medley, but CMU earned no 
points. The 800 yard freestyle relay finally 
got CMU on the board, but by then, the 
points only put CMU in seventh place. The 
diving was spread over the three days, with 
several dives Thursday afternoon, Friday 
morning, Saturday morning, and finals Sat
urday evening. Both Brian Kox and Tony 
Carrington did well Thursday and Friday. 
Both made the preliminary cut.
Friday was a better day for CMU. The 
remainder of the team, who had not been 
needed Thursday, joined the swimmers al
ready at W&J. In the 200 yard individual 
medley Harry Coleman set a new school 
record and took fifth place with a time of 
2:08.1. Joe Dickey took seventh place with 
a 2:09.5. In the 200 yard butterfly Dave 
Mapes took eleventh, earning several more 
points for CMU. The 100 yard breast stroke 
brought a pleasant surprise. Both Mike 
Butter and Ned Uber improved their times
by 2.5 seconds, a high change for a 100 
yard race. Mike earned 11th and Ned got 
12th. In the 100 yard backstroke Joe 
Dickey came through again with a new 
CMU record and a fourth place. The med
ley relay of Joe Dickey, Ned Uber, Harry 
Coleman, and Jeff Bland dropped its time
7 seconds and earned a fourth place. At the 
end of Fridays events CMU still held last 
place.
Saturday started poorly, with Brian 
Kay failing to make finals in diving and 
with Tony Carrington sliiping a few places, 
although still making the finals. The 200 
yard backstroke started CMUs climb. Joe 
Dickey earned third with a CMU record of 
2:07.5, and Harry Coleman followed him 
to place fourth. Mike Butler improved his 
200 yard breast stroke time a phenomenal 
six seconds to a 2:35.5 but could only take 
12th place. Harry Coleman went into the 
100 yard butterfly with a good chance at 
first. The first four swimmers finished 
within 0.7 seconds of each other, and Har
ry was fourth. This was a great perfor
mance, considering he had finished 4th in 
the 200 yard backstroke less than 30 min
utes before. The final results in diving 
showed Tony Carrington in 11th place, 
moving up in his last three dives. CMUs 
400 yard freestyle relay came in sixth,but 
John Carrolls was seventh and thus CMU 
took fifth place in the final standings.
The team is only losing two seniors, Ned 
Uber and Amy Kilburg. Next year there are 
several good freshman prospects. Swim
ming throughout the conference is improv
ing at a phenomenal rate. Only five PAC 
records were not broken, out of the 17 
events that were swum.
to spend a summer of study in unusually pleasant surroundings choosing 
from a wide variety of courses taught by distinguished Stanford faculty and 
visiting professors. Courses offered include:
 Environmental Field Geology and Land-Use Planning in California  
Cultural Pluralism  Basic Drawing, Painting, Printmaking, Photography 
H Psychology of Law  Mass Media Institute H Aeronautics and 
Astronautics  Computer-Generated Music Hi American Studies  
Film Aesthetics  Women in American Society  and many others.
If you arc an undergraduate or graduate student at another college or 
university, a graduate of a recogni/ed college or university, or a person aged 
twenty-five or over, then youre eligible to enroll in the
STANFORD SUMMER VISITOR PROGRAM 1976
,une 21 to August 14
Write or call for more information:Stanford Summer Visitor Program 
Building I, Room 2A 
Stanford, California 94305 
(415) 497-3109
Photo by Jim Johnston 
CMUs swimming coach, Donna Maiello, 
took a 3-5 record and a jar of gum drops to 
the PAC swimming championships last Thursday 
but to no avail. The team placed fifth.
The gum drops are the idea of the first 
year swimming coach. "I always reward my 
swimmers with a gum drop when they do some
thing good in practice. I used to use taffy, but 
it took too long to chew. So did licorice. But 
I can take the gum drops to the side of the 
pool and drop them in the swimmers' mouths 
and they won't miss very much practice time."
TEAM BADMINTON & CO-REC BAD 
MINTON - games start March 15. Check IM 
bulletin board for schedules.
SOFTBALL - 55 teams will be competing 
in this years IM softball league. Games be
gin March 29. The commissioner is Paul 
Landis.
Softball rules meeting will be held Wednes
day, March 17, at 4:30 in the girls gym. It 
is imperative that all teams send a represen
tative.
FENCING & ARCHERY - its still not to 
late to enter in these sports. See Miss Fisk 
girls athletic department or Mr. Birdy for 
information.
SWIM FOR CANCER - for information see 
Mr. Birdy in IM office.
IM BOARD - meeting March 30, 4:30 pm 
in the IM office.
CO-REC TABLE TENNIS & INDIVIDUAL 
CALL POOL - still not to late to enter. 
Stop by the IM office.
HANDBALL FINALS - the Shrinks de
feated the Chokers in IM Handball this 
semester. Faculty Bulldogs finished third.
INTRAMURAL BOWLING - 1976
HIGH AVERAGEFINAL STANDINGS
Loss
2
4
1. Russ Winer (Red Riders)178
1. Red Riders
2. Kappa Sigma A
win
38
36
2. Kevin Clark (Red Riders)
3. Bill Haddock (Kappa Sigma A)
167
164
3. ZBT2218HIGH SERIES
4. Theta Xi22181. Russ Winer (Red Riders)606
5. The Losers20202. Kevin Clark (Red Riders)592
6.Delta Tau Delta19213. Walt Bratkowski (Losers)587
7. Sigma Alpha Epsilon1820HIGH GAME
8. Pika Gold17231. Rich Edahl (Losers)223
9. Pika Red15252. Walt Bratkowski (Losers)22
10. Kappa Sigma B12283. Mark Levine (ZBT)219
Come joiri us at our extraordinary
Qualify Paperback 
Book Sale.50%off s
Outstanding current and back list titles Americas leading publishers.
This is a sale Booklovers cant afford to miss.
C-MU Bookstore
Safe begins March 16  2 weeks only

---------------------------------------------------

T^e Organization of African Lnity 
and Angola
TIESDAN M ARCH 16 
Professor Ladun Anise 
Dept, of Political Science 
Lni\ersit\ of Pittsburgh
U.S. Foreign Policv in Africa
THURSDAY, MARCH 18 
Charles A. James 
Deputy Asst. Director of State 
for African Affairs 
Washington, D.C.
9yy 3tnCtivA i0 ,!'I 3P 
_batta00 7nnvg R;-5ng cPY 
4taag nfa. 0n 0ba fl5y-s 
Rfn.Antam 5S Rf-t-0g
civflA 3tnCtiv 3yi..-.C
AFRICA: THE RIGHT TO SELF RULE
