TARJAN
March 6, 1979Volume 79, Number 24Camegie-Mellon UniversityPittsburgh, PA 15213
limon to Give 
pen Lecture
Dr. Herbert Simon, 1978 Nobel Prize 
inner in economics, will present a free 
blic lecture on Monday, March 12. The 
cture, entitled Leadership and Decision 
aking in the Corporation, will begin at 
PM in the Skibo Ballroom.
Simon, a professor of psychology and 
imputer science at CMU, won the Nobel 
ize for his studies of decision-making in 
ganizations. As opposed to the traditioneconomic theory that man chooses the 
solute best option when making a desion, Simon proposed that individuals 
d companies chose the best option avlable, without searching for the optimum. 
The lecture is sponsored by the CMU 
apter of AIESEC, the International 
ssociation of Students in Economics and 
usiness, which provides students with an 
portunity to interact with the business 
immunity through lectures, seminars, and 
ternship-exchange programs.
Krokosky appeals to Profs. 
About GSIA Insulation
Herbert Simon will be giving his first public lec
ture since winning the 1978 Nobel Prize in Eco
nomics.
CIT Dean Search Starts
by Jeanette Bryan
Herbert Toor, Dean of CIT, announced 
Iverai weeks ago that he is leaving that 
Dsition in June. The CIT Dean Search 
jommittee is looking for a successor to 
loor so that he or she may be prepared to 
like charge in June.
 The Dean Search Committee consists of 
I ft members from various departments of 
e university. They are the following: 
es Romualdi (Chairman), Civil Eneering; Deborah Chung, Metallurgy & 
terials Science and Electrical Engineerig; Edward Cussler, Chemical Engineering; 
ephen Director, Electrical Engineering;
eon Friedberg, Physics; Granger Morn, Engineering and Public Policy; Raj 
eddy, Computer Science; Glenn Sinclair, 
chanical Engineering; Gerald Thompson, 
IA; James Williams, Metallurgy and Matals Science.
These members, along with President 
ert and Edward Schatz, vice-president of
Academic Affairs and University Provost, 
met for the first time on Friday, March 2. 
The committee discussed various candi
dates under consideration for the office, 
but no names were officially proposed. The 
candidates suggested were from both inside 
and outside CIT departments. It is most 
likely, however, that the new dean will be 
selected from within CIT. The committee 
will start concentrating immediately on sel
ecting candidates and will report its pro
gress to the faculty. As of yet, the proce
dure which the committee plans to take for 
this selection process has not been deter
mined.
What will the committee look for in a 
candidate? Schatz commented, The best 
dean will be one that has a high degree of 
education in engineering, one who is inter
ested in supporting undergraduate pro
grams of proper breadth and who has an 
open mind to educational innovations. 
continued on page 10
by Stanley J. Cieslak
At last Thurdsays Faculty Senate Meet
ing, the heated debate over the insulation 
being used for the GSIA addition and the 
new dormitories continued.
Civil Engineering professor, Edward 
Krokosky, representing the Senate Fire and 
Safety Committee, read a report which was 
sent to Richard Van Horn, Vice-President 
for Management and Chief Financial Offic
er. Krokosky stated that upon inspection 
of the GSIA annex, he noticed the styro
foam insulation which was being used was 
labeled combustible. There are also areas of 
the insulation exposed to electrical con
duits, which according to Krokosky, could 
be ignition points for the starting of fires. 
Furthermore, the building is not fireproof 
and subsequent fires will subject it to mas
sive structural damage. Krokosky also add
ed that the insulation being installed into 
the dormitory complex is more combusti
ble that the GSIA insulation. In order to 
correct the situations, the cost is projected 
to be $75,000 for the dorms and $10,(XX) 
for the GSIA addition. Krokosky added, I 
think that expenditures along this line are 
minimal in order to safeguard the well-being of the inhabitants of the structure.
In a rebuttal to the insulation situation,
Van Horn stated that most of the insula
tion in GSIA is enclosed between the con
crete walls and plasterboard, which com
plies with the city fire code. He also claim
ed the insulation to be combustiblebut 
only under extreme conditions.
Apparently, Krokosky and Van Horn recontinued oh page 6
Civil Engineering professor Ed Krokosky went to 
Faculty Senate about the unsafe insulation in 
GSIA and the new dorm complex.
Sutton Talks of China
by Brian Byrnes
We were surprised at the atmosphere 
in the universities, commented Dr. 
Donald Sutton, professor in the History 
Department, at a luncheon forum last 
Thursday on his recent visit to China.
Sutton explained that during the last 
years of Mao Tse-tungs rule, the empha
sis of education was on politics. One did 
not enter a university because of good 
grades but because of a good background. 
Education was politically structured, and 
students were required to work with 
their hands with peasants in the country 
and factory workers in plants. Professors 
were not allowed to talk to one another
on campus, and they had to do so in 
secret to keep in touch.
Although there are still some restric
tions on research work, and students do 
not often have the opportunity for free 
discussions, they are now allowed to 
write papers without censorship from the 
government. Sutton was also told by the 
Minister of Education that the state 
plans to take politics out of education in 
the universities.
Sutton asserted that this recent trend 
is part of the new liberal regimes national 
modernization plans and a backwash from 
the attacks cm the Gang of Four. This
continued on page 6
few hundred of the over 1200 Beaux Arts revellers for this classic photograph.ARTAN photographer Mark Segal, a master of theart of panoramic photography, managed to gather a
photo by Mark Segal

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN
The Ball
Our children will be up past their bedtime. They 11 be 
watching the late-late show, and theyll turn to us and 
ask, "Was the world ever like it was in this movie? Do you 
remember when everything was black and white?
And well laugh and shake our heads. Of course we 
remember! How colorful things were then. How fantastic 
it all seemed.
"Well, what was it like? our children will ask.
And well tell them. But all of us have to tell them the 
same thing. Weve got to get our stories straight No matter 
where we all travel in this world, weve got to keep our 
stories consistent. Heres what we II say. . . .
It was the warmest, sunniest day of the new year. Spring 
had arrived and everything on the Camegie-Mellon campus 
was turning green. The green was popping through the mud 
on the cut. Green leaves were coming out of hibernation on 
the painted trees near the fence. Even the fence was green.
But there were other colors that day, too. The sky was 
blue. The Skibo lobby was grey. The trays in the 
Mo re wood cafeteria were orange, yellow and tan. Our 
tongues were red. How awfully drab it all was.
The campus was quiet (the calm before the storm), and 
all eyes were focused on the College of Fine Arts. The 
building had been sealed off for hours, and no one knew 
what was going on in there. We paced in our rooms, or 
cursed at our homework, or sat out in the green grass and 
got muddy.. .and we waited.
Night came, and it got windy. We could see light 
glowing in the Fine Arts building, but we couldnt under
stand it. We began covering ourselves with make-up, fine 
silks, and garbage. We dyed our hair, we shaved our legs, we 
put on masks, we removed our underwear. We decided to 
disguise ourselves and go see what was going on in the Fine 
Arts Building.
It was funny how we all got there about the same time. 
Two hours before midnight. As we stood in line at the 
front door, we witnessed the strange transformation that 
wed never forget. It was the exact opposite of Dorothys 
experience. When she landed in Oz, and opened the door 
of her black and white Kansas, things changed to color. 
When we entered the F.A. building, things changed to 
B. and W.
The first thing we did was to look around. Our friends 
looked pale, but happy. Some of them looked sexy. Some 
looked gross. Most looked funny. And they were all 
laughing and pointing at each other. So we began doing the 
same thing. And before we knew it, we were enjoying 
ourselves.
There was music everywhere. Big bands, little bands, 
jazz ensembles, mini-orchestras, disco music, and people 
humming to each other in various corners of the building 
(or were they moaning?).
And everyone was thirsty. They waited in line for beer. 
They waited in line to buy drink tickets. Almost everyone 
seemed dehydrated. After each drink, theyd head back up
stairs for another.
And people danced. And they kissed each other. Alumni 
with open throats, guzzled drink after drink and asked 
undergraduates questions like, "Hey, didnt you graduate 
with me in 58? and received answers, "No, / graduated 
in57. .-
The night continued, and we got more confused. The 
building was set to sea, rocking in the waves. Seasick, we 
had to walk holding onto walls, and we had to dance 
holding onto our partners for fear that wed drop and never 
be able to rise.
By 3 AM the next morning, we were hungry, and we 
waited in line again, for breakfast. Black and white cheese 
omelets, and quiche lorraine, and coffee. . .oh the coffee. 
Maybe it would help us. Black coffee. No, nothing seemed 
to help.
So we danced some more, and we were entertained by 
each other and by singers, dancers, mime-masters, and 
sloshed faculty members. Vampires sucked our blood (it 
spurted out in black and white), cowboys pulled our 
triggers, babies sucked our thumbs, Playboy bunnies cap
tured our eyeballs, dice doubled us over, chess pieces check
mated us, and priests and fathers blessed us.
Then the final hour came, and we staggered home by 
black and white twilight. We dosed our eyes and slept, 
and when we woke, the world was full of color again. A 
rainbow of glorious colors rested in the sky after a morning 
rain.
Hungover, we cursed the color. It was boring.
Jeff Zaslow 
Editor-in-chief
Letters
I Take Offense
Editor:
Your editorial in the TARTAN 
dated 2/20/79 seems to have 
produced all negative feedback. 
Your accusations against the 
Black Week Committee are rather 
vague: When we confronted
Black Week Chairman Cheryl 
Goodman she said that they had 
no advertising budget for the 
lecture itself and only had posters 
listing all Black Week Activities. 
(A complete absurdity!)
Did you check her story?
Thats what a newspaper is all 
about; check the information and 
then comment. Maybe you did 
not mean she was a liar, but it 
surely came out that way. Yet, 
in the next issue of the TARTAN 
(2/27/79), at the end of Ms. 
Goodmans letter was an Editors 
note: The Editorial Board of the 
TARTAN stands behind last 
weeks editorial Black Week
Blues. There was no apology
to Cheryl and James Patterson
(co-chairman of Black Week), 
nor was there any type of clar
ification of what was implied 
or meant by the statements in 
Black Week Blues.
Now, to Dick Gregory. The 
first line of the editorial, Greg
orys Rhetoric reads: Spouting 
pure, unfounded rhetoric and 
propaganda, Dick Gregory per
formed oratorical feats last week 
in a crowded Skibo Ballroom. 
Mr. Zaslow, you failed to inform 
the readers of what type of 
propaganda Mr. Gregory was 
spouting. Did it ever occur to you 
that perhaps Dick Gregory loves 
this country (these United States 
of America), that he hates to see 
all the injustice and deceit per
petuated and tolerated in this 
country, and that he is merely 
trying to expose some of it. 
Yes, there are many good things 
about this country (one of which 
is that a person such as Dick 
Gregory can speak up when he 
thinks something is wrong); but
you cannot ignore the bad as
pects either. Together we must 
work to get rid of the bad.
Also in last weeks TARTAN 
Mark Lane was depicted as a 
money-hungry, publicity-seeking 
lawyer. That was really a cheap 
shot. Perhaps he is just that. 
(Everyone likes money and fame, 
right?) However, Mr. Lane is one 
'who has the courage to question 
and investigate the limited bits of 
information surrendered to us, 
the public. Would you be happier 
if we all sat back and trustingly 
accepted all that we were told?... 
We have a duty and a right to 
question. I really dont know if 
Mark Lane is in it for the money, 
but he has been doing a damn 
good job of uncovering facts 
that have been hidden from the 
public (for example, the Dr. 
Martin Luther King murder). | 
I am glad that he is one that 
doesnt let sleeping dogs lie.
You see, Mr. Zaslow, as the 
editor of a newspaper you have
TARTAN
Volume 79 March 6, 1979 Number 24
Editor-in-Chief: 
Managing Editors:
Business Manager: 
News Editor: 
Features Editor: 
FOLIO Editor: 
Entertainment Editor: 
Sports Editors:
Phtography Editor: 
Production Manager: 
Art Director:
Jeff Zaslow 
Jean Pellegrini 
V. R. V. Ramanan 
Stephanie Waite 
Brian Byrnes 
Mory Brenner 
K. A. Yaksich 
Joan Livitski 
Howard Turner 
Perry Colosirho 
Skip Brazelton 
Neil Adler ; 
Dianne Lauble
Assistant News Editor: 
Assistant Features Editor: 
Production Assistant:
Andrew Ragan 
Susan Borg 
Doug K ir sop
Copyright 1979 by the Carnegie Mellon University TARTAN The Fditonal Board reserves the right to edit or 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. I unded in part by the Student Govern
ment of Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices Skibo 50; (412) 578 ,- 
2111 or 2112. Business Offices Skibo 52; (412) 578-2111.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVfD
The TARTAN extends congratulations to Dan Garber, all his committee members and assistants, and 
the students and faculty members of Fine Arts. It was the wildest party we have ever attended.

---------------------------------------------------

more Letters
the potential power to influence 
minds by what you write. So, 
in the future, please try to give 
the total picture, and then give 
your opinion. Remember, some of 
us were there and know the whole 
story.
I should also hope that the 
entire Editorial Board of the 
TARTAN was present at the 
lecture. It would be an injustice 
if they backed you up and were 
not there to formulate their 
own opinions.
Everard H. Spencer 
I Do Too, at last
Editor:
Ive been diligently reading the 
TARTAN since Freshman year 
and have never seen fit to com
ment on any issue discussed there
in until now. During the black/ 
white controversy, debate, or 
whatever you may care to call it, I 
was strongly moved by the opin
ions expressed in the various let
ters written on the subject. How
ever, I was able to analyze with
out predjudice each expressed 
viewpoint and understand the mo
tivation of its author, whether I 
agreed or disagreed. Until, as I 
stated earlier, now: the last week 
of February, 1979.
Perhaps Im slower than the 
rest of the campus community 
and thus need to have some things 
explained to me. In which case, 
Mr. Zaslow, Editor-in Chief, Id 
like you to tell me this: Who the 
hell are you and your Editorial 
Board to dismiss Ms. Cheryl 
Goodmans and Mr. James Patter
sons rebuttals by a pat, smug lit
tle statement to the effect that 
you stand behind last weeks ed
itorial, Black Week Blues? Their 
letters were written to answer the 
statements you made in that edit
orial in the February 20th issue of 
the TARTAN. They had the cour
tesy and courage to respond to 
your comments. Couldnt you 
have responded to theirs? Ap
parently not.
Despite the fact that you obvi
ously deemed such a response be
low you, perhaps you may find in 
your heart the kindness and the 
patience to listen to some advice 
from this lowly writer: the TAR
TAN is a school newspaper. As 
such, it is responsible to the cam
pus in general, and should address 
itself to reporting the news and 
answering campus reactions to its 
reporting. It should not concern 
itself with slandering and seletively misleading the student 
body.
I dont object, Mr. Zaslow, to 
your handling of controversial is
sues such as the Lane/Gregory lec
ture, and the Black Week celebra
tions, though I may not agree 
with what you say. What I object 
to is your high handed response 
(as evidenced by that Editors 
note) when responsible readers of 
the TARTAN take you to court 
over a real or perceived misinfor
mation of facts. To put it bluntly, 
sir: Please get off your high horse 
and join the rest of humanity!
Ronald Jean-Louis
Chem E Class of *81 
Writers Note: I personally stand 
behind this letter and am willing 
to discuss it with anyone whos in
terested.
Editors Note: After receiving Ms. 
Goodman s letter last week, I cal
led her on the phone and we had a 
worthwhile conversation where I 
reiterated the TARTANs position 
on the issuer, and she explained 
the reasoning behind her letter. At 
the conclusion of the conversa
tion, we both agreed that we had 
come to an understanding of the 
other's opinions. Rather than 
picking her letter apart (which 
could have been done, because her 
letter contained some faulty infor
mation), the editorial board de
cided to allow its original editorial 
statement to stand. Had we refut
ed the letters, offered additional 
reasoning for our position, or at
tempted to reclarify points we al
ready felt were clear, we were 
afraid that it would seem like we 
were backing down on the issue. 
The editorial board of the TAR
TAN, as expressed two weeks ago, 
feels that Dick Gregorys lecture 
was, in many senses, rhetorical 
and that the publicity for Black 
Awareness Week was poorly 
handled.
By the way, many black stu
dents have called me or come by 
to talk to me in the past two 
weeks. While quite a few of them 
came with clenched fists and grit
ting teeth, almost all have left on 
good terms, forgetting that they 
began our conversation by calling 
me a racist. I invite anyone who is 
interested to stop by to taOcthings-out.  Here at the TARTAN 
stable, we dont ride high horses. 
But well never compromise our 
opinions because of adverse reac
tions on campus Well, time to go 
to the mailbox to pick up some 
more letters . . . back in the sad
dle, again!
Hold Your Noses 
Editor:
This is in response to your in
ept and openly prejudiced editori
al about the Gregory and Lane 
Lecture, on Tuesday, Feb. 13, in 
the Skibo Ballroom.
At the risk of sounding as ig
norant as your editorial, I feel a 
deep obligation to send my opin
ions of your brilliant master
piece.
Ill begin with your observation 
that Gregory argued a philoso
phy based mainly on half-truths, 
exaggerations, unresolute accusa
tions, and downright Bull. A per
son in your position (editor-inchief) should have the mentality 
to at least substantiate your accu
sations, since you so boldly de
nounced Gregorys philosophies 
which by the way are mostly fact 
(except the already criticized Su
perman observation). Maybe 
youre the one full of bull, along 
with some other animal excre
tions. To throw out your opinions 
of people, such as Gregory and 
Lane, without factual evidence of
your criticisms, lead me to believe 
you have no evidence. Your 
whole article seemed to have been 
manufactured in your digestive 
system and pulled out your derriere with your teeth, which 
makes it all the more harder to be
lieve. Your reasoning totally 
evades me. Maybe you believe this 
great country could not do the 
terrible things Gregory 
mentioned, maybe you believe 
there was no conspiracy to kill Dr. 
King, and that good people, by 
the order of one man would kill 
themselves and their children. If
you believe anyone of these 
things, you have my deepest 
sympathy, although Ive never 
had the pleasure  of meeting 
you.
I really wish I knew more 
about you, but I only have your 
deeply  moving editorial to base 
my opinions. Therefore to call 
you a bigot or some synonym 
thereof, may not be fully justi
fied, but I believe youre one 
anyway.
Id love to respond to every 
word you wrote, but to do so 
means that I would have to look 
at your editorial for an indefinite 
period of time, along with smell
ing its obscene odor, which I can 
only compare to the odor that a 
very large person can make, after 
eating a few cans of beans for 
dinner with boiled eggs on the 
side. Therefore Ill end here in the 
hope that youve caught MY drift, 
(i.e. your editorial really stunk!)
Sincerely and 
Affectionately 
Tyrone Austin
Editors Note: After a lot of de
liberation, the TARTAN decided 
to print this letter, unedited. 
Apologies are perhaps due to read
ers with finer sentiments.
Mr. Austin, you cannot be call
ed crude; that would be an insult 
to the word. You claim that Mr. 
Zaslows reasoning evades you, 
acknowledging thereby its exis
tence. From this letter of yours,
I conclude that your reason is 
nonexistent, let alone your rea
soning. No wonder then that you 
have to end up calling Mr. Zaslow 
names.
It is time you leamt, sir, that 
culture is more than what is found 
in bacteriology labs, and that re
finement is not merely the busi
ness oil companies are interested 
in.
Ramanan 
Managing Editor
Media Manipulation
Editor:
I was quite perturbed by your 
editorial of February 20 as were 
many others. I had been semi-content after personally speaking 
with you that the editorial was a 
misunderstood and perhaps hast
ily written piece. But, I have been 
doing some investigating of my 
own.
Your editorial seemed out of 
place. Your ideas and ways of 
thinking did not sound like those 
of the young, open-minded, liber
al Editor-in-chief you should be. 
Your criticisms of the Black Week 
Committee were inaccurate and 
blatantly wrong as evidenced by 
the letters of the co-chairmen last 
week. (If you had attended any of 
the other events during Black 
Awareness Week, you would have 
seen that the committee did a 
beautiful job of coordinating and 
executing the entire week).
The editorial illustration in the 
February 20 issue was also very 
disturbing. (???) What was the art
ist trying to say? The illustration 
was supposed to pictorially repre
sent your editorial, was it not? 
You approved of the drawing . .. 
when you, yourself told me you 
didnt understand it! In that case, 
the thing should not have gone in
to the paper.
Your comments on Dick Greg 
ory were as bigoted as they come.
You seemed to feel that he did 
not address the entire audience. 
The fact is that the entire audiece 
did not listen (hint, hint!). I am 
inclined to believe that what dis
turbed you is: he just hit too close 
to home. I see you in your 
reign as TARTAN editor-inchief as a small part of the media 
exercising the exact tactics that 
Mr. Gregory warned us of. He 
warned us to be wary of the med
ia, for it releases to us just what it 
wants us to think is the truth.
You told me, personally, that 
the Editorial Board of the TAR
TAN read and approved the ed
itorial Black Week Blues and 
Gregorys Rhetoric. I know for 
a fact that the entire Editorial 
Board (meaning every section edi
tor of the TARTAN) did not ap
prove it. Then in the February 27 
issue you say that the Editorial 
Board stands behind last weeks 
editorial? Why lie to us? It wont 
be tolerated.
From your biased (and wrong) 
coverage of Black Awareness 
Week to your Editors Note of 
February 27, you have shown that 
you are a student leader not to be 
trusted.
Dale P. Alston 
Spirit Coordinator
Editors Note: From the many
complaints the TARTAN received 
last week regarding our lack of 
response to the Black Awareness 
Week issue, we are flooding this 
weeks letters section with editors 
notes.
Ah, Dale, Lets clarify things a 
bit. Andy Epstein, the artist, 
explained the drawing to me be
fore it was printed, I understood 
the point he was trying to make. I 
explained his interpretation to 
you, listened to what you thought 
the illustration meant, and then 
admitted the piece could be inter
preted that way. But art can be ta
ken in a trillion different ways, 
cant it? At the TARTAN, we give 
our artists freedom of expression. 
We usually refrain from running 
artwork only when it is foul, not 
of high caliber, or drawn with in
visible ink. (Our printers sophis
ticated equipment is not quite 
good enough to pick up certain 
kinds of ink.)
Where the TARTAN editorial 
board stands on an issue is deter
mined in the same way Congress 
passes bills and resolutions. Just 
like Congress, when a majority 
of our Editorial Board votes in 
a certain way, the entire board 
stands behind the vote.
Finally, to compare the TAR
TAN with the publications that 
Mr. Gregory warned about, puts 
us in very bad company. (The 
New York Tunes and CBS Net
work) But yes, Dale, the TAR
TAN did play a role in the 
coverup of both Guyana and the 
Kennedy and King assasinations. 
However, we welcome a Mark 
Lane investigation as soon as we 
bum all our files and destroy 
all our back issues.
Campus Chronic)Editor:
. Your editorial about the Cam
pus Chronicle ascribes a certain 
sinister intent to the administra
tion where none exists. The 
Chronicle is an outgrowth of the 
need for more information which 
 has been expressed on a number 
of occasions by members of both
the faculty and staff. These re
quests for more information m 
the areas of professional activi
ties, campus news and universi
ty benefits, were voiced at the 
long-range planning meeting held 
with the faculty last May, in the 
periodic luncheon meetings which 
Dr. Cyert and other administra
tors hold with members of the 
campus community, and in a sur
vey of the faculty and staff con
ducted by the Public Relations 
Office.
The Campus Chronicle is exact
ly what it says it is  a supple
ment to Focus. The material it 
contains is not sugar-coated, 
just straightfoward. (I think you 
will admit it is hard to sugar-coat 
the explanation of an insurance 
plan.) Furthermore, no attempt is 
being made to force feed any
one. The faculty and staff of this 
institution are capable of making 
reasoned judgments on any infor
mation presented to them.
Over the years, Focus has evol
ved into a magazine of features 
and commentary, and it has re
ceived the financial support of 
the university without any con
straints on the content. The Cam
pus Chronicle is simply an at
tempt to bring additional news 
and practical information to the 
campus community in a direct 
and less expensive manner. It is 
not an attack on the First 
Amendment, academic freedom, 
or further evidence of the perni
cious influence of media con
glomerates.
Finally, let me assure you that 
your editorial, along with my re
sponse, will be printed in the next 
issue of the Campus Chronicle, 
and we will be happy to consider 
any other suggestions you may 
have for future articles.
Arnold R. Weber 
Provost
More Information, Please 
Editor:
The TARTAN has missed the 
main point of the University cre
ating the CAMPUS CHRONICLE. 
So what if much of the 1st issue 
was pure PR baloney, how 
could this possibly injure the qual
ity or popularity of FOCUS?
By advocating the CHRONI
CLES demise, I must assume the 
TARTAN has evidence that FO
CUS university support has been 
cut for the CHRONICLES bene
fit. (Why was FOCUS distribu
tion cut this year?)
The point is, the more publica
tions there are on campus the bet
ter, even more so if their editors 
represent a wide variety of per
spectives. If that premise is accep
ted, my suggestions are simple. 
One: the CHRONICLE needs to 
expand its coverage and circula
tion. Both FOCUS and the 
CHRONICLE deserve the aud
ience reached by the TARTAN.
One top University officer told 
me last Wednesday the costs of 
ordering more copies of an exist
ing publication are hardly restrict
ive. To the University I say, the 
information shortage on campus 
has gone on long enough. To the 
TARTAN 1 say, dont insult your 
readers by implying they cant 
read discriminately.
Elliot Ohlbtrg

---------------------------------------------------

more Lettere
Food (service) for Thought 
Editor:
Im afraid to touch the meat! 
... was a recent comment made 
by a CMU student concerning the 
food in Morewood Gardens Cafe
teria. This and similar statements 
to the same effect are heard each 
day throughout the CMU dining 
areas. The fact is that the food is 
bad.
Once upon a time there were 
students who did not leave half 
their meal on their plates to 
leave the cafeteria hungry, as they 
do now. There was no abun
dance" of food high in carbohy
drates served every day, as is serv
ed now. There were not such out
rageous and trivial mea^ires taken 
to cut food costs such as slicing 
the fruit in half or weighing the 
ice cream dishes. As a CMU stu
dent and Food Service employee 
for four years, these changes have 
become apparent to me.
Who is responsible for the poor 
quality and smaller portions of 
food served? Does Mr. Eichmuller, 
the Food Service Director, know? 
If he does, shouldnt he do some
thing about it? Is the money the 
students are paying for their meal 
contracts reflective of the quality 
of the food that is being served? Is 
Food Service making a profit? 
Does Mr. Eichmuller know? Is 
Mr. Eichmuller running Food Ser
vice in an ethical and legal man
ner? Can Mr. Eichmuller answer 
these questions?
With Food Service contract 
rates increasing, it would be rea
sonable to expect food quality to 
be comparable from year to year. 
It is time that the CMU students 
know how the money they pay for 
their meals is being spent.
Name withheld upon request
'Education' Defined 
Editor:
To the anonymous disillu
sioned CIT grad student (TAR
TAN, 2/27): if you wanted to be 
a carpenter, why did you go to 
college, let alone to graduate
school? A college education is not 
meant to teach you to pound 
nails, but rather how (why) to 
design buildings. Carpentry is an 
honorable trade, but if that is 
your career goal, it is your job to 
pick the right way to educate 
yourself. Can you justly complain 
that a driving school, advertising 
as such, fails to teach you to 
dance? Then dont blame CMU 
for not teaching you which side 
of a hammer is flat.
Although were responding to 
the CIT graduate carpenter, he is 
not alone in requesting specific 
job skills instead of the principles 
and analytic techniques under
lying his specialty. Wed like to 
point out what employers actually 
look for in prospective employees. 
The following list is specific to 
computer science (or rather, soft
ware engineering) and is one 
mans list (MAI. Irvine, a project 
manager at Bell Labs, who presen
ted it at a national conference of 
working computer practitioners). 
However, this list is essentially the 
same as lists that one of us (MS) 
has been collecting from industri
al employers of college graduates 
for several years. The technical 
items on it are as follows.
1. Ability to speak and write 
clearly. 2. Solid mathematical 
background. 3. Firm grounding in 
computer science fundamentals 
(by which he specifically does not 
mean knowledge of FORTRAN 
or any other programming lan
guage). 4. Problem-solving ability.
5. Thorough knowledge of the 
software development process.
Only one item (5) has anything 
to do with pounding nails (in 
computer science, this corre
sponds to the ability to code in 
FORTRAN, COBOL, etc.). The 
other items call for theoretical 
talents or liberal arts! In fact, in 
the discussion that originally ac
companied this list, coding was 
one small part of item 5. (By the 
way, laboratories such as Bell 
Labs do engage in real world
computer work, contrary to semipopular belief).
There is another side to this 
story. Some students seem to be
lieve that one can learn real 
engineering without acquiring 
technical knowledge, or at least 
that the latter is of relatively mi
nor importance (see David Mc
Ghees letter (TARTAN, 1/30), 
for example). The fundamental 
importance of this technical 
knowledge (in which we mean to 
include those topics commonly 
called theory) is vastly under
rated by those who dont possess 
it. It would be nice to think that a 
reading list is all one needs to 
aquire it, and some gifted 
individuals can do so. Most 
of us mortals, however, seem to 
require a little more structure and 
guidance.
Mr. McGhee asks if one could 
get just as good an education in a 
lesser school. Well be perfect
ly honest and answer, Perhaps. 
However, the mark of many a 
lesser school, in our experience, 
is that its curriculum concentrates 
on pounding nails (in our pre
vious metaphor) rather than on 
either theory or real engineering.
No, we dont consider CMUs 
curriculum perfect (or even uni
formly excellent). However, if we 
were given the resources to im
prove it, our improvements would 
not be in either of the directions 
suggested by the letters weve 
mentioned above. Rather, we 
would try to increase our stfudents grasp of fundamental con
cepts, principles, and techniques 
and therefore their grasp of en
gineering.
Paul N. Hilfinger 
Mary Shaw
Computer Science Department
' T Was Indeed a Fairytale
Editor.
While there is an unfortunate 
disillussioned CIT grad student 
who has written a Relevant 
Fairy Tale, I too am disillus
sioned and also disgusted. I am 
disgusted about the attitude that 
an increasingly large number of 
students seem to have, sharing the 
view of the grad student, that the 
only things worth learning are 
those that are directly useful. 
Of course, it is one of the im
portant reasons for going to col
lege, but it is not the only reason 
for learning. A great many stu
dents, deep down, hold the view 
that really, the only reason for 
learning anything is that it be use
ful in some way or other. Con
cerning the grad student, I real
ize he is an eager engineer and 
that it is the very nature of his 
profession (and motivation for his 
presumed interest in that pro
fession) to apply knowledge for 
useful purposes. To use his own 
argument, I may repeat to the en
gineer the old argument that 
other non-useful knowledge is 
not non useful. Even if it does 
lack direct utility, it may prove 
useful indirectly. More important 
than this argument, however, is 
the value of diversity of know
ledge useful and otherwise. 
The knowledge attitude typified 
by the engineering grad student 
and displayed by so many other 
sudents closely parallels the rise 
of computerthink  phenome
non. To quote from the first 
issue of Omni:
The decline of nonverbal 
thought in technology was recent
ly noted in the journal Science  
by University of Delaware profes
sor of history and technology 
Eugene Ferguson, who related a 
disturbing fact: Current engineer
ing graduates seem to have less 
and less capapcity for visual 
conceptual thought. . .In the long 
run, concludes Ferguson, engi
neers in charge of projects will 
lose their flexibility of approach 
to solving problems. . .their 
nonverbal imagination will be 
atrophied by an intellectually 
impoverished engineering ap
proach.
take a practical approach to the 
knowledge-only attitude, one can 
take a practical approach to the 
issue another way-why not enjoy 
learning what you are learning 
while you are learning itit is 
more pleasant and besides, most 
people will spend the rest of their 
lives being useful and doing and 
learning useful things. Learning 
in college is the one chance to 
partake of a very different neverto-come-again activity. But if Mr. 
Disillussioned Engineering Grad 
Student is only interested in 
learning useful things, I suggest 
he give Duffs Business Institute 
a try.
Mark Goldhammer 
MIS Sophomore 
Hackers' Rebuttal 
Editor:
The following quote is from 
the On Molehills letter pub
lished in the 2/27 issue of the 
TARTAN:
Did you ever see what hap
pens to a computer nerd when 
the machine goes down? Its real
ly a pathetic sight. But thats 
okay  at least they get a chance 
to wash their hair.
We object to this statement 
for the following reasons:
1) We are HACKERS, not 
nerds. Nerds are people who stay 
up all night studying so they can 
get good marks. This obviously 
does not describe us.
2) We wash our hair at least 
once a semester.
3) Most of the time, when the 
computer goes down, we are the 
ones who cause it. Therefore, our 
reaction is one of pride and joy, 
not the pitiful reaction described 
in the letter.
Next year, we will be in a 
special housing unit on the Hill; 
which will contain its own com
puter room. We will no longer 
have to mix with mere mortals 
like the author of the letter.
The HACKERS: 
JPOM RSOU SBON BAOG MI0F 
JLOR SCON SM1FPA0B RBON
PTOC
"EXCUSE ME. IS m THE INTERNATIONAL PROLETARIAN BROTHERHOOD?"
f WE NEED: Men and women majoring in science and
r engineering fields such as Aeronautical, Aerospace, 
General and Electrical engineering, Math, Physics and 
I Computer Technology.
WE OFFER: Opportunities for Two Year Scholarship,
Graduate Education Opportunities, SI 00/month, tax-free 
1 salary, field trips and much more.
, | YOU RECEIVE UPON GRADUATION: A commission as an
| Air Force Officer and a job offering valuable experience 
I responsibility and independence.
* For more information call: Capt Bev SANFORD at 624- 
6398 29 Floor Cath. of Learning, University of Pittsburgh
\V /mn timum;
ROTC
Gateway to a great way of life.
ATTENTION SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING MAJORS!

---------------------------------------------------

XMarch 6, 1979TARTANPaae 5
Senate Report: Rent-a-Tech 
Goes Self-supportive in '81
by Carl Freedman
At last weeks Senate meeting, a motion 
was proposed to make Rent-a-Tech self 
sufficient by 1981, which is consistent 
with current policy. Student Corporation 
(which owns Rent-a-Tech) was first formed 
to hold the license for WRCT and act as an 
entrepreneur for activities that benefit stu
dents. These activities, including Rent-aTech, receive initial funds from Senate 
with the intent of making them self suffi
cient.
Diane Jesion, president of Student 
Corporation was asked at the meeting if 
Rent-a-Tech could be self-sufficient by 
1981. She answered, At the present time 
we are trying to get better jobs. We are also 
expanding to Chatham College. In two 
years, we may become self sufficient.
There was some concern among senators 
that if Rent-a-Tech did not reach the goal 
by 1981, it would fold. It was explained 
that the decision would have to be made 
by Senate later. A vote on the motion 
passed.
A related motion was proposed by Mike 
Inners. Because of the expansion of Rent-aTech to Chatham, CMU activities money 
was going to non-CMU students. Inners 
moved that Student Corporation activities 
outside of the campus should be self-sup
porting and that no activities fee monies 
should be used to subsidize them in any 
way. The motion was tabled until next 
week.
Polling times and places were announ
ced for the Senate elections on March 14 
and 15. Polls will be open from 8 AM toSenate Acts
On Calendarl
Editors Note: The following is a letter 
from Scott Miller, Chairperson of Student 
Senate, to President Cyert, Dean Swank, 
and Dr. Schatz. The letter discusses Senate 
action on the proposed academic calendar 
for next year.
It has come to Student Senates atten
tion that the calendar as changed by your 
office does not reflect the changes as 
proposed by the Student Senate and 
SDC. As a result, Student Senate has 
passed the following resolution:
Whereas the Student Senate of CMU 
has voiced its disapproval of the calen
dar to the University and whereas the 
University Administration has disre
garded the input of Senate and the 
petition with over 1000 signatures of 
CMU students, and has scheduled 
enrollment day and the first day of 
classes together as well as scheduling 
enrollment day on Labor Day, a 
move which besides being unethical, 
illegal and expensive, has no advantage 
for the students and conflicts with 
University Activities (Freshman Week
end, Watermelon Bash, etc.). There
fore, Student Senate refuses to en
dorse the proposed academic calendar 
and demands on the part of the students 
of Carnegie-Mellon University that the 
University Administration rework the 
calendar in conjunction with the Aca
demic Affairs committees of the Stu
dent and the Faculty Senate and the 
SDC calendar committee, in order to 
reach a workable solution.
If you have any questions about this 
resolution, please get in contact with 
me. We will be anxiously awaiting your 
opinions and actions on this resolution.
midnight of Wednesday, March 14 and 8 
AM to 8 PM on Thursday, March 15. Hill 
residents should vote in Donner lobby, 
Morewood and Mudge residents vote in 
Morewood lobby, and other students vote 
in Skibo lobby. '
The Finance committee proposed a 
$240 increase in the Public Administration 
Organizations budget. The increase was for 
travel expenses. This passed.
It was also moved and passed that a 
CMU-Eckankar group, a non-profit religi
ous/educational organization, be recog
nized with non-support status.
The next Senate meeting is tonight at
7 PM in the Wherrett Room.
Editors Note: Senate candidates are 
asked to have their statements turned in at 
the TARTAN office by 5 PM tomorrow. 
Candidates who did not have their picture 
taken on Saturday may do so before 
tonights meeting.
TARTAN ELECTIONS
MARCH 13 AT 5 P.M. 
IN SKIBO ROOM 13
POSITIONS OPEN:
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
NEWS EDITOR 
FEATURES EDITOR 
ENTERTAINMENT EDITOR 
PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR 
SPORTS EDITOR 
FOLIO EDITOR
Candidates for Editor-in-chief must be full-time CMU 
students who have worked on the TARTAN for at least 
one semester. Candidates for section editors must be 
full-time students, and need no prior experience. All 
TARTAN staffers who are in the masthead, or have writ
ten for two out of the last four issues before elections, 
may vote.
INTRODUCING
Career Opportunities for graduating students
30 companies are coming to town to talk to you about working for 
them. Here is how you can plan to be there.
If you want to know what companies in the New York area, the northeast, and across the country 
have key positions available now in your field, then this is the opportunity you have been waiting for.
30 companies, both local and 
nationally based, each with avail
able positions they are looking to 
fill now. are coming to a major 
hotel in the metropolitan New 
York area. April 5,1979. These 
companies are looking to find and 
hire qualified graduating students 
for positions in engineering, 
business, management, sales, and 
electronic data processing
And now you can meet these 
companies yourself. There are no 
letters of introduction to write 
You will go through no agency. 
And you will not waste your 
valuable time on any job search 
technique you have used  and 
found lacking  in the past.
At this meeting (called a Lendman 
College Conference), you will hear 
about every position these com 
panies have to offer you in your 
field Then, you can pick the 
companies you are interested in 
talking to You will meet those 
companies face to face before you 
ever interview to give you a chance 
to learn more about the company, 
the position, your working environ
ment. all the facts that make your 
decision about the opening the 
right one
You can expect in depth interviews 
with these companies (they come 
staffed and prepared to interview 
and negotiate with you). In one 
day. yoy can learn about, and start 
the ball rolling on more job 
opportunities than you would 
normally find in months of looking 
on your own
How can we make this offer to you? 
The simple fact is. that companies 
pay us to organize these programs 
We work to bring companies and
students like yourself together in one 
place After that, we step aside and 
let you take over. It is this method  
allowing you to interview with the 
companies you are interested in and 
have talked to yourself  that makes 
these conferences so successful.
As for results, last year alone 2789 
people found the opening they 
wanted with the company they 
wanted through Lendman 
conferences. That number is growing
WHO
SHOULD ATTEND:
Positions will be available for 
individuals in the following areas: 
(please check your area of 
interest and return this ad 
with your resumes)
ENGINEERING
? Electrical ? Industrial
? Electronic ? Nuclear
? Mechanical ? Civil
? Chemical ? Other
? Quality Assurance
? Technical Sales
BUSINESS
? Marketing ? Personnel
? Accounting ? Other
? Production Supervision
? Sales
SYSTEMS/EDP
? Programming
? Analysis
? DP Management
? Business Applications
? Scientific Applications
? Systems Engineering
? Other
every year, and now you can be part 
of it.
There is one other important point 
you should know There is no cost to 
you for this service. As mentioned 
above, the companies that attend 
pay the full cost of this conference 
You need pay only your personal 
expenses to attend
Why not prove to yourself how 
effective your job search can be by 
talking with 30 companies you know 
have positions to offer you Apply 
today to attend this College Con 
ference There is no better way to 
fully evaluate and compare the many 
important positions you should know 
about in your field.
APPLY TODAY! To be con
sidered for your place in this 
important conference, send six 
resumes, a stamped, self addressed 
business envelope for quick reply, 
and this ad (with your area of interest 
checked in the Who Should Attend 
block), to:
LENDMAN
ASSOCIATE 8
Mr. Kerry OHara 
Lendman Associates 
P.O. Box 742 Dept: 35 
School House Plaza 
Millbura, NJ 07041
When we receive your resume, you 
will get a reply in writing concerning 
this conference, its exact location, 
the time it starts, and all directions 
you need to attend

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6TARTANMarch 6, 1979
Funds Given to Local Intercultural Groups
A grant has been awarded by the Na
tional Association for Foreign Student Af
fairs (NAFSA) to local community based 
service organizations in cooperation with 
the University of Pittsburgh Office of In
ternational Programs and the Translation 
and English Language Center, CarnegieMellon University. The purpose of the 
grant is to provide training in intercultural 
communication, organizational leadership, 
help-giving and community organization in 
cross-cultural context in order to instigate 
the establishment of international student 
organizations on the campus and in the
AMS Dean's List
community and further increase the ef
fectiveness of those organizations already 
in existence. These goals will be accom
plished through a series of three weekend 
workshops held in Zelienople, PA during 
the first half of this year. The first work
shop is designed as an introductory experi
ence in intercultural communication and 
took place last month. On March 23 - 25 
the second workshop will take place with 
the theme of leadership and orgaizational 
training in a cross-cultural context. The 
program will conclude on May 46 with 
the final third workshop with an emphasis
The following students in the Dpart
ant of Administration and Management 
Science have qualified for the Deans List 
in their Fall 1978 Final grades; that is, they 
have attained a Q.P.A. of 3.75 or over, 
completed at least 45 units, and have no 
Incompltes.
Seniors
Eric Lee Branthoover 
Martin J. Sohovich
Juniors
Barry V. Bran deburg 
Sandra Lee Hatter 
Bernard W. Lockard, Jr. 
Julie M. McGuire 
David V. Radack
Sophomores 
Kenneth J. Benvenuto 
Geoffrey D. Love
on management and organization skills 
specific to international student organi
zations. Facilitors for the program include 
local faculty and management training ex
perts .
The first workshop was a smashing suc
cess and everyone had quite a good time, 
despite the fact that most of the partici
pants were from the University of Pitts
burgh and CMU was poorly represented. 
Such a program can provide invaluable in
sight into human intercultural relations for 
all students and serves to offer a most use
ful personal experience for students inter
ested in supplementing their formal educa
tion with management and leadership skills 
training in an international context.
Ultimately, our interest at CamegieMellon University is in establishing an In
ternational Student Organization for all 
interested foreign and American students. 
These workshops will ideally provide us 
with an opportunity to identify and train 
those participants interested in further pur
suing the goals of the workshops in work
ing together to organize an organization at 
our university.
Any CMU student interested in partici
pating in the next workshop March 23 - 25, 
contact Doug Coutts at Baker Hall 232-D, 
x2870 or Mr. Tom Huff at the Pitt/Oak
land YMCA, 508 Schenley Hall, 624-5912 
for registration. The cost for the program is 
$10.00 for the remaining two workshops 
which covers all food, lodging and trans
portation fo_ both weekends.
Krokosky Goes to Faculty
continued from page 1
ferred to different tests of combustibility 
while presenting their arguments. Accord
ing to Van Horn, in tests conducted with 
the insulation between concrete walls and 
plasterboard, when exposed to fire, the in
sulation melts and recedes from the walls
/Etnas recruiting on your campus
tna Life & Casualty has a continual 
need for good people. Ambitious people.
People heavy with potential. People we can 
train for rewarding careers
In investment financing, engineering, 
business administration, computer analy
sis, actuarial science, accounting, under
writing and communications.
Discover how tna Life & Casualty can 
be the catalyst that ignites your growth po
tential.
Stop by and talk with our campus 
recruiter March 13,1979. Contact your 
Career Advising and Placement Service 
Office for location and starting time.
An equal opportunity 
employer.
LI FE& CASUALTY
and does not catch on fire unless exposed 
to intense heat. On the other hand, Kroko
sky points to tests which were conducted 
by placing the insulation in a furnace. The 
insulation emitted toxic gases and when it 
did catch on fire, it sent flames 7 feet high.
Van Horn stated that after he received 
Krokoskys report, he investigated the situ
ation thoroughly, checked with the archi
tect, checked the fire code and finally con
cluded that using this type of insulation, 
would not materially change the fire safety 
of the buildings.
It was proposed, that in the future, a 
member of the Fire and Safety Committee 
be a member of the Design Committee in 
order to recommend safety measures, in 
planning the construction of new buildings.
At the present time, the combustible in
sulation remains.
China Visit. . .
continued from page 1
policy has also resulted in the democracy 
walls that have sprouted in every city.
Chinas modernization plans call for an 
opening of relations with the West and an 
improvement in science and technology, 
among other things. Sutton made the visit 
between semesters in December and Jan
uary with a group from Pitt who were 
interested in starting relations with a 
Chinese university.
At the time Sutton was there, much of 
the focus on the wall posters were about 
the Gang of Four and some about the 
Vietnamese invasion of Cambodia. But 
there were also local interest posters, 
papers that were not published, short 
stories, a reward offer for a lost donkey. 
Sutton said that anything can be placed 
on the walls, and the government censors 
little material there.
Sutton still maintains that the dem
ocratization may only be temporary. 
There are still some factions in China who 
are loyal to Mao, and there may be con
frontations in the future.
Sutton also talked on some of the 
cultural and economic changes in China. 
He showed slides of people colorfully 
dressed, as opposed to the brown and 
dark blue revolutionary suits that are 
thought of as being common dress. There 
were a few merchants selling goods out in 
the streets: Several thousand students in 
Shanghai were upset that the government 
did not have jobs for them, and they held 
a protest at a government office.
CALL 578-2921
e*.CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

ND BZYOA/D
by Frederic J. Siegel
He is the final legacy from that era of 
Camelot that seems increasingly in our dis
tant past. He remains as the sole survivor of 
a rare breed of charismatic political wondermen. While Teddy Kenndey is probably 
the most widely recognized political enig
ma of the decade, his ambitions are as 
much an American mystery as the identity 
of those behind the conspiracy that killed 
his brother Jack almost sixteen years ago. 
Its ironic that although Teddy has repea
tedly declared his noncandidacy, his name 
never ceases to surface as the man most 
likely to pursue and win the Presidency 
in 1980.
Teddy Kennedy is as eloquent and uni
que as he is versatile. His logical method of 
thinking coupled with that devestating 
Kennedy smile makes him irresistable to 
the American public. In fact, it would seem 
clear that Mr. Kennedy is indeed the most 
popular politician in America. What is puz
zling, though, is that despite his flagrant 
history of scandal, he never ceases to cap
ture the imagination and adulation of the 
American public. His consistuency is na
tionwide as it appears quite obvious that 
Americans have an overbearing preoccu
pation with the Kennedy mystique. Its 
as if perhaps we feel that by holding on to 
Teddy, we can also retain some of the ma
gic that Jack and Robert left in Camelot. 
At the very least we try to look at Teddy 
and remember the way things were when 
both John and Robert were still alive.
Since Edward is the only remaining 
legacy to the Kennedy mystique, he has 
succeeded in elevating himself to the posi
tion of elder statesman generally reserved 
for past Presidents. In recent history, only 
the late Hubert Humphrey mastered the 
same political following that Teddy has. 
Besides being a Kennedy, there are other 
reasons Teddy has survived as a political 
hero in a country that changes idols like it 
changes television channels. As James Reston states, Senator Edward Kennedy con
tinues to impress and even haunt the Dem
ocratic Party, not only because he is a Kenone of the few really eloquent public spea
kers in American political life today. Al
though Teddy doesnt have the Kennedy 
wit that John made famous, he has the 
ability to project his own feeling and sen
sitivity to the public with whom he deals. 
It is not surprising that before every recent 
Presidential election, the media has lodged 
a Kennedy for President campaign by put
ting that famous face on every cover of 
every major American magazine. Its as if 
they cant resist the temptation of leaving 
this rare and dying political breed alone. If 
theyre not poking into the private life of 
his wife Joan, the American press starts 
pestering his niece Caroline or his sisterin-law, Jackie Kennedy Onnasis.
It seems doubtful that Edward Kennedy 
will run for the Presidency in 1980 or ever. 
The reason being that he simply doesnt 
need the office. Today, in the Senate, a 
Kennedy endorsement on a particular bill 
is as good as that bill being passed. Whether 
he is liked or hated, his historical vision for 
the nations problems coupled with his abil
ity to reduce diversity to identity, has 
made his opinion the most sought out in 
American politics.
Teddy Kennedy doesnt need the Pres
idency to gain the respect that most poli
ticians assume is territory with the office. 
Jimmy Carter has sat in the Oval Office for 
more than two years and he has yet to gain 
one fifth the respectibility of Teddy Ken
nedy. Senator Kennedy will remain as the 
conscious of American political thought 
for as long as he desires At the age of 46, 
he has many years left in which to mold 
and shape both American domestic and 
foreign policy. His personal crusade for 
National health insurance is certain to be
come a reality in the 1980s as his nonpersuit of the Presidency continues. Other 
Kennedy causes that now seem either im
practical or too expensive are also certain 
to have their day. For now. however, we 
must try to eliminate our preoccupation 
with the Kennedys and try to remember 
Camelot for what it was and can never be 
again.
calculator
Housing Contract Changed
by Mory Brenner
In reading this years housing contract, 
dorm residents will find many changes. 
Most of these have been brought about by 
the Student Dorm Council Housing Com
mittee by speaking to the proper Universi
ty authorities, and voicing the students 
grievences about the problems which stu
dents have complained about in the past. 
Some of the major changes are as follows:
1. Instead of the student being guaranteed 
of furnishings they are now granted at 
least a bed, desk, dresser, bookcase and 
chair.
2. The word contract has been changed 
to agreement throughout the document.
3. At times when the dormitories are at 
more than 100% occupancy the University 
may extend early termination to Students 
who request such in writing and forfeit 
$100.00 plus any pro-rated charges for the 
period of occupancy.
4. Dates for the termination of the housing 
agreement will be extended for graduating 
seniors until graduation day.
5. If the University feels that it is in its 
best interests to move a student, the stu
dent may now have the right to appeal this 
decision before a panel made up of an SDC 
representative, a member selected by 
housing, and a member of the Residence 
Life Staff.
Tennis shoes 
and 
racket
bar bells
-iooTball
Student Advisory Council 
Progresses in H&SS
6. If a vacancy occurs, a student may no 
longer be required to relocate. The remain
ing members of the accomadation will have 
the option of accepting another roommate, 
of paying the additional fees reflecting the 
reduced occupancy of the accomodation.
7. All room inspections must be announc
ed.
8. Students are no longer responsible for 
any damages which might occur over win
ter break.
9. The housing agreement is now termi
nated when the resident returns his or her 
keys.
10. Students are no longer responsible for 
reasonable custodial service but only for 
custodial service not normally provided. 
If extra services are needed each resident is 
equally responsible, unless one is proven 
guilty of causing the damages. The guilty 
student will also have the right to appeal 
this decision.
11. Water beds have been officially banned 
from dorm rooms.
Other items which SDC hopes to change in 
the future are allowing dorm residents to 
be able to cook in their rooms, and arrang
ing some sort of insurance coverage againt 
theft and vandalism of students property 
while they are living in University housing.
by Stuart Schlisserman
H&SS has the first college wide student 
organization ever on this campus. The 
H&SS Student Advisory Council (SAC), is 
the students vehicle for getting their 
wishes carried up to the Deans Office. But 
besides serving academic functions, it also 
works as a social organizer. Past events in
clude a picnic back in October, a wine and 
cheese party in February, and plans are be
ing made for the First Annual H&SS 
Spring Fling.
Professor Bill Cohn, Director of the Ac
ademic Advisory Center, was the first to 
conceive the idea of the H&SS College 
SAC. He contacted students during the 
summer of 1978, and held a meeting for 
all interested students who wished to help. 
The SAC divided into three groups: the 
Social, Academic and Extra-academic Com
mittees. After a few meetings, the Social 
Committee decided to hold an event to let 
the other H&SSers know that the SAC ex
isted. The picnic turned out to be a great 
success. The Social Committee, under the 
guidance of Carolyn Boardman (Asst. Dean 
of H&SS), then went to work on the 
H&SS lounge. With complete financial sup
port from the college, the lounge was re
painted, and refurnished with new carpet 
and new furniture. The SAC consulted 
with Professor A. Degregori, of the Design 
Department, for a color scheme. Professor 
Degregori not only helped the SAC choose 
paint colors, but has increased interaction 
among CFA and H&SS by having an op
tional student project for graphics in the 
room. He is also coordinating an exhibit of 
Design students work in the lounge.
While the Social Committee was work
ing on the lounge, the Academic Commit
tee was working hard at solving academic 
problems. This includes clearing up discrep
ancies in the H&SS catalogue of major de
scriptions, setting up a formal program for 
receiving advice before declaring a major,
restoring the H&SS Senior Honors project, 
as well as a plan for pre-registration in 
H&SS courses.
Now that the lounge has been mostly 
completed, the Extra- Academic Committee 
is implementing programs of interest for 
the H&SS community. Many of these pro
grams are still unconfirmed, but two are 
definite. On March 21, at4:30 PM in the 
H&SS Lounge (Room BH 254C), Mary 
Lou Hough, from Career Planning, is going 
to talk about How to Prepare for Job Op
portunities. The SAC feels that this is an 
important talk, in light of the controversy 
dealing with a lack of job opportunities for 
graduating liberal arts majors. On April 
10th, at 4 PM. in the lounge, Dr. Herbe t 
Simon will hold a talk and discussion peri
od on Computers and Thinking. Both 
lectures are open to all students.
The Student Advisory Council also has 
members on the College Council. The Col
lege Council is the major decision making 
body in the college. This gives H&SS stu
dents the chance to participate in college 
wide decision making.
With all these activities, the SAC is still 
a new organization and faces the same 
problem as all new organizations-support 
through membership. The n ' C needs more 
members in order to accomplish many of 
its goals. To aid in this problem, the SAC 
has arranged to be on the agenda for 
Freshman Orientation. In this way SAC 
hopes to acquire many freshmen who will 
be able to see the SAC operate for all four 
years of college. By no means does this 
suggest that the SAC is a closed organiza
tion. Anyone may join at any time, and 
meetings are open to all H&SS students. 
Meetings are held every Thursday at 4 
PMin the lounge, and everyone is en
couraged to attend. In the next month, the 
SAC hopes to begin electing officers for 
next year, so it is hoped that many people 
will get involved.
Active Wrirte
CULTURES!!'.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8-TARTAN-March 6, 1979
Why Placebos work
Hotline Helps
(CPS) - Writers Hotline. May I help 
you? This telephone response spells 
relief to a lot of students at both the 
University of Wisconsin-Stevens Point 
and the University of Arkansas-Little 
Rock, when they need quick answers 
about grammar, spelling, usage and 
punctuation. V: \\J\
Volunteers from the school's English 
departments field the questions, which 
at Arkansas now come not only from 
students, but from people all over the 
U.S. and Canada.
The UA hotline started out, recallls 
Daniel Littlefield, chairman of the 
English department, as a service to the 
Little Rock community. Then the wire 
services and Paul Harvey picked it up. 
UA faculty members are now receiv
ing up to 75 calls a week,
Inquiries come from a wide variety 
of people, Littlefield told the Chronicle 
of Higher Education, but his favorite 
inquiry came from a South Dakota man, 
for whom the hotline solved a problem 
of several years. It seems the man had 
always been bothered by the placement 
of an apostrophe on a plaque he had 
received. His worries were groundless, 
however. The hotline confirmed that 
the apostrophe was in the right place.
Pratt Porno
(CPS)The film Debbie Does Dallas 
is not an instructional film about libraries. 
The films star, Bambi Woods, is not an in
quisitive freshman who enjoys exploring 
the stacks.
Officials at Brooklyns Pratt Institute 
learned this last week when the local adult 
theatre showed Debbie which includes 
13 minutes filmed in the campus turnof-the-century-sytle library, gymnasium, 
and sauna. The movie features numerous 
explicit sexual encounters among the 
characters, including a scene of group 
sex in the sauna.
Vice-president Joseph Azzinaro told 
Associated Press that last summer a group 
of producers came to campus, and indentified themselves as a filming company 
called School Days. They told us 
they wanted to make an educational film 
on the library  how it operated, how the 
reference library works, etc., Azzinaro 
explained.
Azzinaro said it isnt uncommon for 
film crews to come to Pratt, and that a 
Doctor Pepper commercial was being 
filmed on the steps of the library at the 
same time as Debbie was unfolding 
inside. But he admits that he should have 
known better. School Days does sound 
like a phony name.
In addition to the trickery with Pratt 
officials, the film company may be pulling 
another fast one. Eigthteen- year-old 
Bambi Woods is advertised as a former 
cheerleader for the Dallas Cowboy foot
ball team.
?????????????? 
DISCO CLASSES
* PARTIES  DINNER  SHOWS
ALL THIS  * WEEKS  32 HOURS 
"LESSTHAN SI.00 
v. PER HOUR"
HOilOA HOUSE - ENROiL 241-21*2 ^
Chemically they are quite dissimilar, said with pain relief from narcotics. This dis - 
Levine. But the parts of each mole- covery may help explain why placebos 
cule that hook up with the receptor in the sometimes partially reverse withdrawal 
brain are similar, and thats all you need. symptoms in narcotic addicts-they are getThe pain relief endorphins offer is ex- ting real pain relief from a morphine-like 
tremely good, Levine said, comparing it substance.
jjlllllllllllllllllll...... I
s iI I 1
I 208 PAGES... 1
1 YOUR FACE COULD BE ON ONE OF 1 
| THEM |
THE THISTLE
5 S I
| On sale all this week f
at Skibo Information DeskEE S5I and Baker Hall Lobby |
8 ' s Iliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
SAN FRANCISCO, CA. (CPS) -Research
ers have always been puzzled over the 
some people experience when given placebos--substances with no medicianal value - 
in experiments. The standard explanation 
was its all in their heads.
Now, theyve found out its all in the 
glands and the head. University of Cali - 
fornia-San Francisco scientists recently 
found that, in about 30 percent of all pa
tients, ingesting a placebo triggers the re
lease of endorphins, a natural pain killer 
produced in the brain and pituitary gland.
Of course, researchers knew all along 
that the head and the body are connected. 
They were just trying to find the physio
logical corelate of what we had been obs
erving, says UCs Dr. Jon Levine in the 
Daily Califronian. There is, Levine says, 
no distinction. The mind is in the brain, 
and the brain is a physiological organ. 
Interestingly enough, endrophins literal
ly means The morphine within and re
sembles the substance produced by the opi
um poppy. It even acts like morphine.
Accept The Rockwell Electronics Challenge...
You're about to make the most difficult move of your life...selecting your 
first full time job. We'd like to help you make the right decision. That's why 
we're putting down the cube and bringing things to a head.
When it comes to Electronics. Rockwell goes across the board. As a 
recognized world leader in sophisticated electronic components, products 
and systems, we span the globe serving a vast array of markets in avionics, 
telecommunications, navigation, missiles, sensors, systems integration, 
and electronic devices.
Rockwell offers hundreds of career choices to a number of choice people. 
If you're an EE, IE, ME, Physics. Math or Computer Science major...we in
vite you to accept the Rockwell challenge.
An Equal Opportunity Employer, m/f

---------------------------------------------------

March 6, 1979TARTANPage 9
U. S. NAVY
COLLEGE JUNIORS AND 
GRADUATING SENIORS
POSITIONS IN ENGINEERING 
AND NUCLEAR ENGINEERING BUSINESS MANAGEMENT INTELLIGENCE AND AVIATION
(20/20 vision not required for Flight Officer)
r
X THOUGHT ZL TL.D VDU 
Ncrr T fpcK A LT
Initial salaries ranging from $12,500 to $16,300 
$18,600 to $26,000 after 4 years 
Full medical and dental coverage 
30 days paid vacation each year 
and more
INTERESTED INDIVIDUALS SHOULD SIGN UP FOR INTERVIEWS 
IN THE PLACEMENT OFFICE NOW. TRANSCRIPTS ARE REQUESTED.
OR CALL 644-5880T ' 
INTERVIEWS MARCH 22 and 23
Redbook Gives Makeup Hints
New York --Younger women are more 
cautious about experimenting with new 
make-up looks than older women, accord
ing to make-up expert Joyce Hiller Hollins, 
who revealed today that most women with
...or Make Your Move in Aerospace!
Rockwell also offers an exciting career game plan within our dynamic 
Aerospace Operations. Long the leading contractor in the nation s space 
program, we continue a strong participation in ongoing space efforts, and 
are advancing technology in propulsion, aircraft, and energy systems-all 
part of the Aerospace Team's contributions.
If you're degreed in AE. EE. ME. CHE or Computer Science, or a related area 
such as Structures, Electronic Systems or Mechanical Controls, you're 
sure to find a strategic career position in Aerospace with Rockwell.
''C1f 1LJ
Contact your placement office today 
for an immediate interview.Rockwell International
.. where science gets down to business
make-up problems make the same few mis
takes.
Writing in the current issue of 
Redbooks Be Beautiful, a twice yearly 
beauty magazine, Ms. Hollins described the 
seven most common make-up mistakes and 
how to solve them.
1. NOT KEEPING MAKE-UP UP-TO 
-DATE: Women who havent experiment
ed with a new make-up look in the last two 
years are out-of-date. SOLUTION: Find 
out whats in and adapt it.
2. EXCESSIVE TIMIDITY: Afraid of 
using too much make-up, some women dc 
only a partial job, and this can look more 
conspicious than a comlete, finished one. 
No foundation, for example, can make 
blusher look splotchy. SOLUTION: Learn 
to do a complete finished face. It takes 
only a few minutes and the results are 
worthwhile.
3. MISMATCHING COLOR: Theres 
nothing worse than a visible line of de
marcation where make-up ends and skin 
begins, but theres also no reason to have 
one. SOLUTION: Select a color that 
matches the skin tone as closely as pos
sible. If it cant be seen, its the right color.
4. IGNORING PROPORTION: The way 
things go together is important in make-up 
fashion. Dramatic eye make-up, for, exam
ple, calls for clearer jewel-like tones on the 
lips and cheeks. SOLUTION: When chang
ing one element of make-up, consider 
whether its necessary to change another to 
keep the total look in Balance.
* 5. CREATING AN UNFLATTERING 
EXPRESSION: The eyebrows are the most 
expressive part of the face and can lend 
softness or a scowl. Most women follow 
the eyebrow shaping rule that brows 
should begin directly above the inner 
comers of the eyes, but thats only for 
normally spaced eyes, according to Be 
Beautiful. SOLUTION: For eyes that are 
too close together, widen the space bet
ween the eyebrows; eyes that are too far 
apart should have a narrower space bet
ween the brows.
6. FOLLOWING FASHION INCOR
RECTLY : Any new make-up look must be 
adapted to the individual and executed cor
rectly. The new Smoke Ring Eyes, for 
example, if done incorrectly, can look as 
though the wearer would rather fight than 
switch. SOLUTION: Blend the color so 
that the edges fade and are not distinct 
circles. Do not line the inside of the lower 
lid on small or sunken eyes. Women with 
close-set eyes should keep color and liner 
on the outer portion of the eye only.
7. CARELESS OR LAZY APPLICAT
ION: The secret to beautiful make-up is 
blending. Visible spots and distinct lines 
are unnatural. SOLUTION: Make up in a 
good light and blend each item well with a 
sponge, cotton ball, swab or clean finger
tips. BufT off excess, making sure all resi
due has been removed from hairline, brows 
and facial crevices.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-TARTAN-March 6, 1979
CMU Coed Named "All-American Girl"Finalist
by Lisa Klepper
The search for the All-American Girl. 
Is she at Camegie-Mellon? No, you say, 
shes at Pitt, UCLA or Ohio State.
The American Broadcasting Company 
doesnt necessarily think so. They adver
tised in the TARTAN for their first annual 
All-American Girl contest. But just what is 
the All-American Girl Contest? Well, the 
first round of competition was athletic. 
Girls wishing to enter had nine sports to 
choose from, syncronized swim, baton
iiiniiiMmiimimimiimiiiiimiiiiimiiiimiiiiiiiimmmimiimiiiimmmimmmimiiiiimimimimiiiimiiimmiiiiMmmiiiimiimimiimui
A YEAR TO REMEMBER
THE 1979 THISTLE
On sale all this week at 
Skibo Information Desk 
and Baker Hall Lobby
Anne Dougherty (left), Lyn Vaux (center) and Molly McCloskey competed in local All-American 
Girl" contest. Lyn is going on to Las Vegas for further competition.
^iiiiiiiiuiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiK
twirling, water skiing, tennis, diving, 
gymnastics, roller skating and ice skating. 
These athletic competitions took place in 
twenty-four cities around the country. 
The winner in each sport in each city 
then went on to the next round of com
petition.
The girls were given a situation to dress 
for, ranging from candlelight dinners to 
Thanksgiving. They were then interviewed
OUTSTANDING PROGRAMMERS
OUTSTANDING PROGRAMMERS 
OUTSTANDING PROGRAMMERS 
OUTSTANDING PROGRAMMERS
OUTSTANDING PROGRAMMERS 
outstanding programmers
XEROX
Xerox Advanced Systems Department in Palo Alto, California, has several 
openings for systems programmers. If you are graduating this year, if you 
desire to develop highly advanced software systems, if you want to work in a 
challenging development and marketing organization; then you should 
consider working for Xerox Advanced Systems Department (ASD).
ASD is a young (less than one year old), fast-paced Department, with a unique 
charter to develop advanced computer science technologies into finished 
prototype systems and then to selectively place these systems in market 
probes. For years Xeroxs Palo Alto Research Center has performed 
fundamental computer science research. ASD has been created to transfer 
many of the resulting new technologies into the marketplace. ASDs focus is 
Office Information Systems. Development work and our staff openings are in 
the areas of database, text processing, and administrative aid systems.
ASD is placing its office information systems with selected customers to gain 
experience on just what the real needs and capabilities of the "Office of the 
Future" are. We are currently working with test installations in the Executive 
Office of the President, the Senate, the House, and several large corporations.
Our openings are for entry*level systems programmers. We are looking for 
Bachelors or Masters graduates with training in computer science and some 
systems programming experience. Your field of study is not as important as is 
your demonstrated excellence in your computer science skills and your 
enthusiasm.
As a recent Stanford graduate in computer science, have found ASD a 
challenging and satisfying environment to begin my career in. I think you may 
too. I urge you, if you are interested, to send your resume to me at:
Bob Carr
' Xerox Advanced Systems Department 
2400 Hanover Street 
Palo Alto, CA., 94304
We are an affirmative action employer (m/f/h).
to display poise, personality, taste and 
appearance. These interviews were video 
taped and sent to the contest headquar
ters in California. That means twentyfour girls in each sport were chosen to 
go to the pageant in Las Vegas in March. 
Nine sports, five girls in each sport, fortyfive final contestants.
Three CMU Tri Delts decided it was 
worth their while to enter the contest. 
Anne Dougherty, a sophomore in design 
competed in diving, Molly McCloskey, a 
junior in musical theater competed in 
syncronized swim, and Lyn Vaux, a 
freshman in musical theater competed in 
gymnastics. All three girls won in their 
sport. Then came the waiting, would any 
of them be chosen to go to the final 
pageant?
The answer came late last week. On 
March 17, Lyn Vaux will be flown, all 
expenses paid, to Las Vegas for two 
weeks to participate in the All-American 
Girl Pageant on March 26. Be sure to watch 
to cheer her on, maybe the All-American 
Girl is from CMU after all.
Profs Approval 
To Posts Stalled
by Bill Kapner
The first two cabinet nominees of Gov. 
Richard Thornburgh to come across ser
ious opposition from the Pennsylvania 
State Senate are two Pittsburgh professors, 
one being CMUs Myron Joseph. Joseph 
was nominated last month by Thornburgh 
to serve as state Secretary of Labor and In
dustry. The other professor is Gordon K. 
MacLeod who was nominated as Secretary 
of Heal til. MacLeod is on the medical 
school faculty at the University of Pitts
burgh. ^
Opposition to Joseph is mainly from 
Senate Republicans who claim that he is 
dancing around the issues. The Pitts
burgh Post-Gazette claims that Joseph, a 
Democrat, irritated many Republicans dur
ing a special meeting of the G.O.P. caucus 
which led Senate minority leader Henry 
Hager of Williamsport to declare, We 
dont know where he stands on a number 
of major issues.
At the time of this writing, the Pitts
burghers are the last two cabinet members 
yet to be confirmed by Senate and the first 
two to come under any sort of serious 
threat of rejection.
Dean Search . . . .
continued from page 1
The new dean must also have the qualities 
of an outstanding scholar with a very aca
demic background in science and research 
and should be aware of the new areas of in
vestigation in research. Finally this person 
must be a good administrator; one who 
can lead the faculty with confidence!

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Page 12TARTANMarch 6, 1979
Veaux rts 1979
* ^Jc sjc sjc |c jc |c jc jc sjc #|c j je jc sjc jc jc je 5|c jc Je ji je ji je ^
Time is running for the present editorial 
board, and we'd like to see our last issues of 
FOLIO be the best ones yet. That's why 
we're asking everyone to send in contribu
tions - poems, short stories, artwork, what
ever -- for the last two issues. The deadline for 
the March 13 "Science Fiction" issue is to
morrow, March 7. And on March 20, we're 
running "Parodies of Great Masterpieces", 
so you have until March 13 to rewrite "The 
Raven" or draw a moustache on the Mona 
Lisa.
By the way, the annual April Fool's edition 
of the NATRAT will be out right after break, 
and we need articles of fictitious campus events to fill every section. All the news that 
fits .... ! The deadline for those articles is 
March 15.
^ iJ# %S* +1* 1^ ^ <JL> slff piC?J> Jjs
ZheMafic
by Joan Livitski
If you still insist on believing in the stereotypi
cal nerding CMU student after last weekend, then 
you must not have seen the black and white of 
the proof against this. Beaux Arts Ball was cer
tainly proof-positive that when CMU students de
cide to let loose there's no holding back.
It took some doing to convince myself that 
these were the same students who trudge to 
classes with work foremost in their minds. This 
past Saturday night though, there were no 
thoughts of design or architecture projects, re
hearsals, papers or exams. Instead, it was evidenc
ed that the one and only thing that everyone was 
thinking about was how to have the best time 
possible.
Helping to ensure that everyone enjoyed them
selves were the myriads of entertainment provid
ed, whether planned, ad libbed or unintentional. 
It wasn't a question of finding something that 
you liked, but one of trying to be everywhere at 
once.
Music was the most abundant form of enter
tainment, expressed through every variation of 
sound. Of course there was the disco to keep ev
eryone dancing, but it was a nice change to join a 
crowded dance floor for other types of music as 
well. In the Alumni Concert Hall bands played 
and people danced and listened to jazz, hard rock, 
big band sounds and even polkas. Surprisingly the
TARTAN FOUO
MARCH 6,1979/VOLUME lll/ISSUE 21 
BEAUX-ARTS BALL-A RETROSPECTIVE
EDITOR: K. A. YAKSICH 
ASSISTANT EDITOR: FRED LA POINTE 
ART DIRECTOR: LISA AMOWITZ 
CONTRIBUTING ARTISTS:
JOAN LIVITSKI 
SKIP BRAZELTON
Concert Hall wasn't only inhabited by "disco 
sucks!" shouters, but rather everyone filtered 
back and forth trying to experience and absorb a 
little bit of everything.
The Faculty Lounge provided more soothing 
modes of music. Opera, jazz and folk music 
among those presented.
Juggling, stage fighting, mimes and drama 
sketches were all part of the planned program
ming, but the real focus of Beaux Arts was 
people themselves. The elaborate care and 
attention, not to mention the time, that went 
into most of the costumes was a credit to the 
students' and faculty's creativity.
I didn't envy the judges for the costume 
petition. First place, which seemed to be a unani 
mous concensus, went to a life size chess set. 
Other winners were: a girl costumed Carmen Miranda-style complete with a black and white fruit
ed headdress, a well-feathered bird, and one girl 
dressed as both a man and woman who certainly 
made you look twice to determine which parts 
were real and which were fake.
My only contention with the evening was 
it was too much of a saturation. So much was 
concentrated into so little time (those 8 hours 
really flew), that it was impossible to hear, 
and enjoy everything. As much as I feel I did see, 
I'm sure there was ten times as much that I 
ed. I kept wishing that the Ball wouldn't end or 
that I could come back next weekend to enjoy it 
once again, but as with alt good things, ti 
wouldn't stop and 3TI the Cinderellas had to 
home.
I just hope that everything about the evening 
wasn't a fairytale. Granted, a massive amount of 
planning and work is necessary for an event of 
this caliber, and it would be unrealistic to think 
of holding anything like this frequently. However, 
it would be a shame if everyone's sociable nature 
was only make-believe.
Maybe we can't all live happily ever after, but I 
think Beaux Arts showed that there's much more 
to CMU than nerding over schoolwork. Let's 
thank the Beaux Arts Committee members by 
carrying over a little bit of this wonderland into 
our daily lives and prove old stereotypes wrong. 
But even if this doesn't happen, the committee 
certainly did a more remarkable job than even a 
fairy godmother could have.

---------------------------------------------------

March 6,1979TARTANPage 13
On sale this week at Skibo Information Desk and 
Baker Hall Lobby. $12.50 or $14.00 mailed | 
Price will rise March 15, so buy your
yearbook now.
^iiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiuiiNuiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiniiiniiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiHiHiniiiiiiitiiiHiiiiniiiiiiuiimiiiiiiiniHHHiuiiimiiiiHiniiHiiiiiiiiiiinmitnmmmiiiiiiHitiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiti
Yes, we have no bananas...
Jack Purcell created a new nostalgia.
A YEAR TO REMEMBERI : :  V'-
IN THE 1979 THISTLE
Preparing breakfast...a bird's-eye view

---------------------------------------------------

Advertisement
MIDNIGHT 
TO 
3 AM
3 AM 
TO 
7 AM
7 AM 
TO 
9:30 AM
9:30 AM 
TO 
12 NOON
NOON 
TO 
3 PM
3 PM 
TO 
6 PM
6 PM 
TO 
9 PM
9 PM 
TO 
MIDNIGHT
Advertisement
WRCT PROGI
SUNDAYMONDAYTUESDAY
I DALE KIRBY
Locale II
HUB
Mellow Monday 
Morning
OPENOPEN
OPENDAPPER DALE
Rock and Roll 
to shake those early 
morning blues
ARTHUR COBB
3 Hours of traditional 
as well as contemporary 
I Christian music
ROBIN GILBERT
A wide variety of music 
in the morning
1 T
MEL-O-MEL
[ Mellow Jazz 
to recover from 
your weekend.
JIM CAMPBELL
Anything but 
Disco
DISCO DEAN
Get on board the 
funk train 
where you'll hear 
the best of the 
New York sound
CITIZENS OF 
WONDERLAND
The Cheshire Cat 
is on the bus for 
the Magical Mystery 
Tour.
ANG. D.
Special Mix of Funk 
and Music to close
the weekend. \
SLOPPY JOE & DEVEREAUX
A deviate duo 
dabbles in 
miscellaneous 
music & Madness
MIKKI SHULL
Progressive jazz with an 
added touch. Unique blend 
with rock, blues, funk 
and soul
THE REAL WORLD
Every thing from 
Beefheart to Sid Vicious 
to Steve Reich. Definitely 
not for the squeamish.
JAMIE SEGUIN
Listen to the circular 
sounds of jazz for the 
wasted man
OPEN
TUESDAY START
Wake up to 
mysterious music
TUESDAY CON
Experiments in 
radio composition
ANNIE'S MOUNTAIN 
MUSIC
Folk, Bluegrass 
and Blues
LEEANA
A tasteful afternoon 
of classical music
MIKE PRUSSEL
Contemporary jazz & 
progressive music for tto 
open-minded
Campus Forum
Sports Show
MERLIN
Stand on your head 
and tune into Radio 
Free Euphoria
REQUESTS: 578-2883

---------------------------------------------------

Advertisement Advertisement
AM GUIDE - 88.3 FM
WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY
CHRIS & MARCI
On the spot hi-jinks 
and stuff
MIKE HERRON
"Spirits known and 
unknown." Soft mellow 
jazz both acoustic and 
electric
GAYLE
New Wave and other 
paraphernalia
KENT HOMCHICK
Free Form Music
OPENOPEN
ANDY
Spontaneous Music - 
Good early morning 
mixture of rock, blues 
and jazz
OPEN
JOHN
A scrambled morning 
show of hard & easy rock
ALEX
Mellow Music 
with an 
upbeat mood 
Also the latest news, 
both CMU and in the world
HERB STENCIL
Eclectic Radio 
for Erstwhile Listeners
OPEN
Q
JACQUI
WOOLLEY
Put on your clogging 
shoes, get into some 
ballads, breakdowns and 
blues . . . folk music too.
MCLINTIC SPHERE
Musak for the Masses.
A mellow blend of 
industrial rock, be-bop 
jazz and blatant noise
ROB NESTOR
The show starts out 
mellow and grows in 
intensity to get you going
MRS. ZOOM
Out of your beds 
and onto the streets. 
Rock & Roll 
Saturday morning
LORRAINE
CAPUTO
A mellow afternoon 
of folk and 
bluegrass
SUE ORBOVICH
Fun for the 
Feeble-minded
KEN
Variations in listening 
for a Fry-day afternoon.
GEORGE GEE
It don't mean a thing 
if it ain't got swing. Jazz, 
big bands & requests
MARK PLESKOW
The spaciest show 
you'll ever hear on a 
Wednesday afternoon
ALBERTPARIANTE
Music to start an 
extended weekend by
CHAS
Help Chas roast, toast, 
and celebrate the 
weekend.
ERICA
Blues-Billie Holiday 
Leadbelly, Grateful Dead 
Johnny Winter - many 
more, old and new
KEVIN KOST
Come to the 
Disco-tech
JEFF FREEMAN
A professsonal program 
of underplayed, older 
harmonious progressive 
rock which never gets 
acidic.
GEORGE AND 
JON
Rock your socks off 
and run barefoot into 
the weekend
MILT
Progressive music with 
class. Turn up your 
stereo and turn on
GIDIO
Listen for the music 
that you want to hear.
RICK SEGAL
This is not Mellon Banking; 
music for Amazing America 
and world H.Q. of be more 
chic inc.
JON NELSON
Take a trip up 
Mad Jon's Musical 
Mountain
TOM WOOD
I "You must be,' said 
I the cat," or you 
1 wouldn't have come here.
BUSINESS NUMBER: 621-WRCT

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16TARTANMarch 6, 1979
r. i*w ui ass MUMn o Woodwind Quintet v to Flute&Gi
11 :io Conservatory Trio 2=00 Piano
12 00 Jazz Vocalist :* Cabaretv* .u> Horn Trio :t u Gene C01
M's the Creator

BNAI B'RITH HILLEL-JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
COME CELEBRATE PURIM at B'nai B rith Hillel 
Saturday March 10 9 p.m.
There will be a Purim Party in the Lounge, 3rd floor.
Make your own Purim mask, enjoy the hamantashen and Israel dancing.
Admission is your pledge to the Campus Campaign for Israel and World Jewry 
The MEGILLAH reading will be Monday, March 12 at 7:30 p.m., Hillel Lounge.
315 S. BELLEFIELD AVENUE (ACROSS FROM HEINZ CHAPEL) 
621-8875
HAIRCUTS COLORING PERMANENTS
(Wash-Cut Bk)11 00 237 AW)0D STREET 2500
Mon Tues Wed 10-7 PITTSBURGH, P. 15213Mon. lues. wed. lu-/ 887-3500
Thurs. Fri. 10-9 No
Sal. 9-6 UNISEX HAIR SALON Ar lintments
Seasonal performers are needed at:
KINGS ISLAND, Cincinnati, OH KINGS DOMINION, Richmond. VA 
CARO WINDS, Charlotte, NC Hanna-Barber as MARINELAND, LA, CA
SI75-$200/week SINGERS* DANCERS  INSTRUMENTALISTS
Round-trip airfare paid for hired performers traveling over 250 miles to work at the parks 
KINGS PRODUCTIONS, Cincinnati, Ohio 45219
The dance floor was packed all night.
The Dean and Mrs. Midani
Kings Productions, the largest producer of professional Live Shows 
for theme parks, will De auditioning at:
Duquesne University, Pittsburgh Pennsylvania
#206 School of Music,
Wed., March 7, 2-7 P.M.

---------------------------------------------------

March 6,1979TART AN-Page 17
Remember Ascot in "My Fair Lady"?
Alumni got in the spirit of things, too

---------------------------------------------------

come dance the 
light; fantastic!
mwMi
2001 WEST GENERAL ROBINSON STREET 322-4949 5PlTTC-Ql tQflU DA i MC VT Tr> TuDCC OIV/COC CTinu
2001 WEST GENERAL ROBINSON STREET 
PITTSBURGH PA iNEXT TO Fundd RiVERS STADIUM!
EVERY FRIDAY AND SUNDAYmm2002 ROUTE 48 ANO LINCOLN WAY 664-0553
EVERY FRIDAY AND SATURDAY
THE AREAS ONLY EXCLUSIVELY
UNDER 21 DISCOS!*
i
hO MHIs so: ^ o1 *o >V)
 |S 00 
1 i ^ 
Z 
<D >  c S Z> 1
al *- 3 * K *O QO -c8 51 ?
_o 
<D a^ O
2 2
S ii n S!* - P 2 -5 . > CM 4 0 _ <
U) *5 <i>Ck.ou
0X1 
HIMW
4llllllllllillllllllllllllllllllHlllllllillll!llllllllllllllllil!llllillllllllllllllllllltilllllllllttlllllllllllltllllflllllHIIIIIIIIII!HIIII!lllll||!llimi||||||||||||||||(
IN MEMORY OF 979
THE THISTLE
On sale all this week 
at Skibo information Desk 
and Baker Hall Lobby
?Tiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii!iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiifiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii!iiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiitii!iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiini
IS COMING!!
CAN WRITE ARTICLES FOR IT!
Pieces are due, March T5th for this
spectacular APRIL FOOL'S
Send to Box 17, Campus Mail

---------------------------------------------------

ENTERTAINMENT
A conversation with Monty Python's Graham Chapman
by Alan Spero and Mory Brenner
Who says theres nothing to do at CMU?
On Thursday, February 15, while the 
PBS station, channel 13, presented five 
Monty Python episodes in a row for their 
pledge drive, my roommates and I joked about calling up the station and talking to a 
member of the Monty Python troupe, Gra
ham Chapman, there on behalf of the 
drive. The station had said that a pledge of 
$ 100 was necessary to talk to Grahm Chap
man, but one of my roommates was able to 
get through and talk to Graham without 
pledging. He invited Graham to come back 
to our apartment to listen to music and re
lax. Graham said hed think about our off
er as he took down our phone number. All 
of us were a little dazed and confused at 
this time, yet we were still skeptical. But 
a short time later, he called back and ask
ed for directions.
At 11:30 that night, Graham walked in 
and sat down on our couch. The music 
playing at this time was Misfits by the 
Kinks.
Ah, said Graham, one of Rays
songs.
Do you know Ray Davies?
He lives on my street,answered 
Graham. Hes mean; down at the pub he 
never buys a round.
We laughed and introduced ourselves. 
It was apparent that we were in for a night 
of humorous insights and anecdotes about 
several rock and rollers. In fact, most of 
Grahams friends are from a distinguished 
line of rock artists: the Beatles, the Kinks, 
the Who, and Harry Nilsson. Ringo lives on 
his street, too.
After hearing this impressive list of dis
tinguished artists, my roommate inquired, 
Ever heard of Neil Young?
No. Is he a drinking man? joked Gra
ham. Actually, Graham gave up alcoholic 
beverages. During the course of the night 
he only drank a Dr. Pepper and a Tab.
After we talked about our school lives 
(Graham asked,Is it always so dull around 
here; arent there any bars or places to 
go?) we went into some history about 
Monty Python.
All the members of the Python troupe 
are from England, except Terry Gilliam, 
the animator, who is from L.A. Graham 
and John Cleese went to Cambridge, while 
Michael Palin, Terry Jones, and Eric Idle 
graduated from Oxford. They met and per
formed for each other at the Edinborough 
Festival. Even today, Graham writes with 
John Cleese, Michael writes with Terry, 
and Eric writes by himself.
Chapman said that he and most of the 
other Python members were heavily influ
enced by the old Goon Show with Spike 
Miligan. The key to their comedy, he add
ed is its unpredictability. Most of what 
he writes comes through some sort of ob
servation, in fact, he went so far as to say 
that everything written stems from an ob
servation and that there is really no such 
thing as surrealism.
John and Graham are responsible for 
many of the funniest moments on the 
show, including: the cannibalism sketches, 
crunchy fog (Whizzo candies), and the 
sketch about a man with a very,very,very, 
long name engraved on a nameplate which 
circles around his entire office. In the 
sketch, Graham had to repeat this name 
several times. He said the name for us very 
rapidly. It took him almost a minute to 
finish.
Monty Python had just finished a movie 
which was being produced by George Harr
ison. Graham is currently working on sever
al film projects, and he also believes that 
the troupe will be touring college campuses 
either next fall or the following spring.
We didnt want to press him for too 
much information. He had told us hed 
been up since six in the morning doing 
interviews and had to catch an early plane 
to New York.
We started talking about-traveling. Gra
ham told us,  I travel a lot and I have a 
very tight schedule. Im moving all the 
time. One time I woke up on an airplane 
lying face down on the floor, not knowing 
where I was, how I got there, or where I 
was going. Apparently, what had happened 
was that I had crashed out in my hotel 
room and the fellows wheeled me on the 
plane in a wheelchair. I must have gotten 
up sometime when I first got on, walked & 
few steps, and fell on the floor and went 
to sleep.
On the surface, all of his traveling may 
seem very exciting, but it was the reason 
he seemed so depressed on television, and 
in his earlier interviews. If Graham remain
ed in England, they would tax away 83% 
of his income. In order to avoid this, Chap
man must stay out of the country for a 
year. I wouldnt mind 60%, but 83% was
just too much, so I left. He has spent
most of his exile in Los Angeles, but his 
visa in the United States will run out soon, 
and he will have to go elsewhere.
At the time Graham was not sure where 
he was going to go next. On one hand he 
wanted a place where he could continue to 
make his films. On the other hand he 
wanted a place where the people would 
speak English. Most of the group have turn
ed from doing television shows to con
centrating on movies. As for the shows, 
Graham said that it was hard to do the bits 
in front of a live audience. If they were not 
done right the first time, they would not 
be able to get the initial audience reactions 
on subsequent takes. For this reason, all of 
the Python sketches were very tightly 
scripted and rehearsed. There was never 
any ad-libbing.
These problems with a live audience are 
the main reasons that the Python crew pre
ferred to do outside scenes, and now is 
concentrating on movies. Their first movie 
Monty Python and the Holy Grail recently 
aired on WQED and was shown at the be
ginning of the month at the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse. Chapman, who played King Ar
thur, assured me that their new movie, 
which will premiere in L.A. in September is 
even funnier.
One disappointment Graham had about 
the Holy Grail was that it was sold to com
mercial television in the United States and 
large portions of it were censored. One of 
these which particularly upset him was the 
scene with the black night. They cut it 
out because they felt it was too violent, 
but in reality it is an anti-violence state
ment. We were showing how stupid the 
black knight was for wanting to fight. He 
had lost all of his limbs in the battle, yet 
he was still stupid enough to want to con
tinue the battle. He was an idiot, and that 
is what we were trying to say about people 
who wish to fight the way he did.
Octopuss Garden was just starting on 
the tape we had on. Do you know how 
Ringo wrote this song? he asked us. We 
shook our heads.
He was on Peter Sellers yacht one day. 
He was very bored and so he just imagined 
the whole thing and wrote the song.
From then on, most of the questions 
concerned rock, and much of the anec
dotes Graham described to us were about 
a good friend of his, Keith Moon.
There was one time when Keith came 
back from a party, or a concert, or some
thing. He went back to the hotel to listen 
to some records on his record player and 
only on his record player. He came back to 
his room and remembered that he had lent 
his record player to a roadie who was stay
ing in the next room. Keith went over and 
knocked on his door but there was no an
swer. So then he called up the roadies 
room, but no one answered the phone. 
Keith then went down to the desk to see if 
the key had been left there, but it hadnt. 
The roadie had taken it and gone up to his 
room. But Keith was insistent that he lis
ten to his records on his record player.
So Keith went out on the window 
ledge(14th floor) and crawled over to the 
roadies window. He saw the guy stretched 
out on his bed, sound asleep. Keith tapped 
on the window pane but the guy didnt 
hear him so he broke the glass and shouted 
in (he couldnt get in because this type of 
window was crisscrossed with wood into 
little windows.) but the roadie still didnt 
move. So Keith crawled back along the 
window ledge into his room. He was de
termined to get that record player so he 
took a hammer and started chipping away 
at the plaster. Then he removed some 
bricks and smashed a hole in the wall big 
enough for him to get through. Keith 
walked in through the hole, picked up his 
record player, and walked back through 
the hole into his room to play records. He 
paid for the damage, of course.
Lately, Keith was into something alto
gether new. He was having members of the 
band smuggle in suitcases full of bricks into 
his room. He built big, brick dog houses in 
the middle of hotel rooms, leaving them 
these as a reminder of his visit. At least 
Keith was being constructive instead of 
destructive.
And now it was 1:30 in the morning 
and time to take Graham back to the Hyatt 
House downtown, I told a friend upstairs 
that he better get his car. He did, and five 
of us piled in with Graham to take him 
back to the hotel.
During the ride back we continued to 
talk about such things as: our favorite 
Monty Python episodes, what Pittsburgh 
was like on the night of Superbowl, and we 
talked about the other members of the 
Monty Python troupe. And then we made
continued on page 26
Pearl, Sarah and Ella - together for the first time
The American music scene is one of the 
most diverse in the world, and this unique 
environment has fostered some of the most 
distinctive styles in the history of enter
tainment. Among those stylists are three' 
women who find their roots in the jazz and 
big band eraPearl Bailey, Ella Fitzgerald 
and Sarah Vaughan. They will be appearing 
together for the first time on Kraft All-Star 
Salute to Pearl Bailey, March 14, 10-11 
PM.
All three of these remarkable women 
grew up during the 1920s and got their 
starts in show business in similar ways. 
Their careers developed during the heyday 
of big bands and nightclubs, although each 
one developed a style that was strictly her 
own and was an intimate reflection of her 
particular personality.
Pearl Bailey was bom in Newport News, 
Virginia, in 1918. She got her start in show 
business when she entered an amateur con
test at Philadelphia Pearl Theatre in 1933.
Pearls career soon turned to the films 
and Broadway work that was to become 
the primary focus of her life. Her appear
ances in stage showssuch as St. Louis 
Woman, Arms and the Girl, House of 
Flowers -and in films- including Carmen 
Jones, That Certain Feeling, Porgy and
itess-left no doubt as to her ability as an 
actress. Presently in semi-retirement, 
Pearls occasional performances still reflect 
the vivacity and one-on-one aproacli she 
developed in her big band days.
Like Pearl, Ella Fitzgerald was bom in 
1918 in Newport New, Virginia. She was 
originally billed as a dancer when she ap
peared at the Harlem Opera Houses 1934 
amateur contest, but the then sixteen year 
old was too scared to dance so she tried to 
sing like her idol, Connee Boswell. Ellas 
rendition of The Object of My Desire so 
entranced bandleader Chick Webb, who 
was in the audience that night, that he 
hired her as his bands vocalist.
Ella soon went on to solo work with the 
bands of Count Basie and Duke Ellington. 
Over the years, she perfected her range of 
two octaves and a sixth, (from the low D
or D flat to the high B and occasionally 
higher), and became a master of the falset
to. Simultaneously, her recording projects 
began to blossom and her version of A Tisket a Tasket on the Decca label immortal
ized that childrens rhyme. Her other early 
recordings include Mack the Knife. Things 
Aint What They Used to Be, Watch What
continued on page 26

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20-TARTAN-March 6, 1979
AB CONCERTS PRESENTS
RICHIE HAVENS
WITH GUEST
GENE CORBIN
FRIDAY. MARCH 16th 
8:00 P.M. 
SKIBO BALLROOM
CALL 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A
Pianists challenged in Three Rivers Competition
Persistencies by Leonardo Balada, nationally-known p Pittsburgh-based composer. 
The piece was published in December 1978 
by G. Schirmer.
Announcing the competition arrange
ment, Three Rivers Piano Competition Ex
ecutive Director Peter Garvie said, The 
competition is one of the projects for 
which WQED-FM is best known across the 
country. It is very exciting to be associated 
with this event, particularly this year with 
its big leap forwardnot only is the Pitts
burgh Symphony involved and new region
al centers added, but also the finalists of
previous competitions are drawing interna
tional notice while building their musical 
careers.
The semi-finalists and finalists will be 
judged in Pittsburgh by a distinguished 
panel of judges including: Jorge Bolet, a 
leading international pianist; Gilbert 
Kalish, pianist for the Contemporary 
Chamber Ensemble; Israela Margalit, not
ed concert pianist; Abbey Simon, prestigi
ous concert pianist; and Andre Previn. 
Harry Franklin, Professor of Piano at Carnegie-Mellon University is the Music Direc
tor and Chairman of the Judges.
One of National Public Radios (NPR) 
major fine .arts projects, the 1979 Three 
Rivers Piano Competition will award 
$5,000 and the Vesuvius Gold Award to a 
young pianist-this May. Competitors in the 
finals, to be held in Pittsburgh, will per
form at Heinz Hall for the Performing Arts, 
accompanied by the Pittsburgh Symphony 
Orchestra, Andre Previn music director.
The Three Rivers Piano Competition is 
open to pianists who will be under 30 years 
of age as of March 31 and the deadline for 
application is March 31.
Th winner of the national competition
will also appear in three solo performances 
with the Pittsburgh Symphony in the or
chestras regular subscription series. The 
second prize is $3,000 and the Silver 
Award. The third place winner will receive 
$2,000 and the Bronze Award and an ap
pearance with the Pittsburgh Youth Sym
phony Orchestra and $ 1,000 will be award
ed as fourth prize. In addition, a special 
award in memoriam of the late John J. 
Sommers, founder of the Three Rivers Pi
ano Competition, for the best performance 
of a commissioned work will be presented. 
This year, contestants will be asked to play

---------------------------------------------------

March 6,1979-TARTAN-Page 21
Eric Clapton, Muddy Waters, B.B. King to tour the states
by Ted Smits and Alan Spero
Eric Clapton, legendary guitarist of 
Cream, Derek and the Dominos and Blind 
Faith will begin a 47 city tour on March 
28th. The tour which starts in Tuscon will 
help promote Claptons latest album Back
less. Blues master Muddy Waters will open 
the concerts for Clapton. Muddy Waters 
had toured with Clapton in Europe last 
fall. There is no word yet on whether the 
two will perform in Pittsburgh.
Another great blues guitarist, B.B. King, 
left February 28th for a tour of the USSR. 
He has concerts scheduled for Leningrad, 
Moscow and twenty other Russian cities. 
After he returns from the USSR, B.B. King 
will appear with Bobby Bland at the Stan
ley Theater on April 13. There will be a 
7:30 and 11:00 PM show. These two blues 
artists have a combined total of over 50 
albums and 300 singles. This is one Evening
of Blues which should not be missed.The Electric Light Orchestra, already
involved with lawsuits relating to their 
Out of the Blue album, has been sued by a 
Michigan concert promoter. The suit ac
cuses the group of defrauding their audi
ences by using prerecorded tapes instead of
actually performing live. The promoter 
sued the group after ELO had sued his 
promotion company asserting that the pro
moter owed them 165,000 dollars for two 
shows. The promoter claims that both 
shows were exactly eighty-two minutes 
long and that the groups sound equipment 
was under heavy security throughout the 
shows. ELO supposedly used taped guitar 
leads and vocal tracks. ELO claims that 
they only used small taped guitar intros 
and that they used no taped vocals.
A number of rock bands will be appear
ing in Pittsburgh in the coming months. 
Rod Stewart will bring his Blondes Have 
More Fun tour to the Civic Arena on May 
29th. National Lampoons If We're Late, 
Start Without Us will appear at the Stanley 
Theatre March 25th. The multi-media in
concert extravaganza features skits, songs 
and general chaos by the National Lam
poon players. WYDD and DiCesare-Engler 
Productions will present Angel at the Stan
ley Theatre on March 10th. The five-man 
group has recently released a new album 
entitled Sinful. Opening for Angel will be 
Trillion. Judy Collins will perform at the 
Stanley on April 7th.
Rory Gallagher get's rowdy
by Alan Spero
Its been two years since Rory Gallagher 
released his last album, Calling Card, and in 
that period, Gallagher, his band, and his 
music have gone through a noticeable 
change. First, he dropped his original pro
ducer, American, Elliot Mayer, and picked 
up fellow Irishman, Alan ODuffy. Then he 
split up with his original band; drummer 
Rod Death and keyboardist Lou Martin 
departed and drummer Ted McKenna 
(the Sensational Alex Harvey Band) joined 
Rory and his bass player, Gerry McAvoy. 
With this basic rock ensemble of guitardrums-bass, Rory and ODuffy headed 
over to West Germany to complete the 
album. The final product, Photo Finish, 
is a solid example of electric slide-guitar 
work and kick-ass rock and roll.
Many of the songs on the album have a 
Johnny Winter feel to them: searing slide 
solos, driving bass beats, lightning-quick 
blues riffs, and raw, echoing vocals (al
though, Gallaghers vocals are hollower 
and not as dynamic as Winters.) He 
works well in the three piece arrangement, 
with the occasional overdubbing of har
monica or mandolin, and his songs have 
that kind of get up and get rowdy 
sound, that makes live performances out
standing and recorded performances fresh 
and listenable.
 The album opens with a beer-drinking, 
bar room brawl track entitled Shin Kicker. 
The tempo picks up fast from the opening 
drum beat, and Rory starts screaming that 
hes got to find a town thats got some 
action, while guitar solos slide in and out 
between verses. The idea of going out and 
looking for a non-constructive good time 
seems to be predominately on Gallaghers 
mind, but then, he doesnt complain in any 
song about being lonely or losing a lover, 
so maybe hes got the right idea.
Brute Force and Ignorance continues 
this theme in a stylish, pounding rocker 
about violence at, of all places, his own 
concert. But Rory just wants everyone to 
go out and have a good time, and he in
structs the listener on how to do that in 
Cruise On Out, another driving boogie 
number with some incredible soloing by 
Rory. The last two songs on the album, 
Cloak and Dagger and Overnight Bag, con
tinue in this vein, although they tend to 
be mellower in comparison to the first 
three.
Unfortunately, the second side is much
slower moving than the first, to the point 
of being dull. That point occurs in The 
Mississippi Sheiks and Fuel to the Fire, 
which, although they feature some amazing 
licks put in by Gallagher, drag over their 
six minutes-plus playing times like a psych 
lecture on a sunny afternoon; never cul
minating to a final climax or coming to a 
meaningful end. The Last of the Indepen
dants is a fiery little rocker about whoop
ing it up in Detroit, Cleveland, and Pitts
burgh (yes, Pittsburgh!) as opposed to 
John Denver cities like New York. Its 
being sandwiched between the above-men
tioned songs makes it seem that much 
more invigorating.
When listening to the album, I would 
suggest playing the second side first for the 
best impact, but either way, Photo Finish 
is a very enjoyable album from a seasoned 
guitarist who seems to have finally found 
a musical territory he can work well with. 
Rory Gallagher is a guitarist and performer 
to keep your eye on.
Cheech & Chong have released a sound
track album of their current movie Up in 
Smoke. This is the sixth album for the vet
eran comedy team. Tommy Chong and 
Richard Marin (Cheech) first met in Cana
da. They performed with a lot of groups 
and variety acts before their first album 
was released. The success of their first two 
albums helped them gain a large, faithful 
following.
Most of the groups material is related 
to sex, drugs or music. The movie details 
the adventures of the pair as they drive 
through Southern California with a car 
made out of compressed marijuana. The al
bum includes a variety of songs by differ
ent groups. Wars Low Rider and Yescas 
Strawberrys are featured on the album. 
The best song on the album is Cheech &
Chongs Earache My Eye, which had pre
viously been released as a single. The lyrics 
of Earache My Eye are a good example of 
Cheech & Chongs humor.
My momma is talking to me,
Trying to tell me how to live.
But I dont listen to her,
Cause my mind is like a sieve.
My Daddy disowned me 
Cause I wear my sisters clothes.
He caught me in the bathroom 
With a pair of panty hose.
This album also contains dialogue from 
some of the funniest scenes in the movie. 
The Ajax Lady and other scenes are featur
ed. The album is about evenly divided be
tween music and dialogue. If you liked the 
movie, you should like this album.
Discover
wscm?
PEW?
SUMMERS
Rochester Institute of Technology 
Summer Sessions
Study this summer in RITs Colleges of Fine and Applied 
Arts, Graphic Arts & Photography, General Studies, 
Science, or Continuing Education. Take courses in any of 
18 different sessions, lasting from one to eleven weeks. 
And choose from over 20 areas of study. Theyre all a 
part of the many summers of RIT, starting June 4.
Art & Design Machine Tool Technology
Crafts Printing
Photography Science
Motion Picture Production Mathematics & Statistics
Instructional Technology Education
Computer Science Engineering Technology
Humanities Audiovisual Communications
Criminal Justice Study Skills
Graphic Arts Business
Social Work Programs For & About the Deaf
For registration information and a 1979 Summer Session 
Bulletin, contact:
Rochester Institute of Technology
Summer Sessions
College of Continuing Education
One Lomb Memorial Drive
Rochester, NY 14623
(716) 475-2234
Greek Sin
MARCH 9,8:00 PM
CARNEGIE MUSIC HALL
DONATION 500

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22TARTAN-March 6, 1979
FORBES TRAVEL
an official CMU Travel Agency
COMPLETE TRAVEL ARRANGEMENTS
"Never a Service Charge"
 COMPUTERIZED RESERVATIONS immediate availabilities and confir
mation of flights
 FREE TICKET DELIVERY ANYWHERE ON CAMPUSfull time delivery 
service
 Payment by Transportation request form for authorized University
 travel
 We accept all Major Credit Cards
AIRLINES 
HOTELS 
CAR RENTALS 
CRUISES 
RAIL
FOR RESERVATIONS CALL:
Airlines, htels auto rentals 
CMU extension 02999 
or
421-2500
Vacation Planning 
521-7300
lo you pro<tSy by Marita liqporbnf Co . Inc.. Grcot Ntk. N V
Ice Follies amuse, dazzle and delight young and old\ 9
A new edition of Sipstads & Johnson 
Ice Follies raises the roof on arenas around 
the country. This handclapning, toetapping 
festival on ice is coming to raise the roof 
on Pittsburghs own Civic Arena from 
March 13 thfoueh March ISVariety sets the stage for a show full of 
surprises and one that holds something for 
everyone. Whether it is a salute to Law
rence Welk or the fast moving music of the 
disco age, the rhythm is contagious. Bright 
lights, dazzling costumes and high-stepping 
showgirls are just part of the excitement in 
store.Featured skaters include Sesame Street, 
the world renowned Mr. Frick, the amazing 
Richard Dwyer and Olympic Silver Medal
ist Dhnne deLeeuw. As an added attrac
tion, comedy steps into the limelight when 
Little Lito takes turns as Groucho and 
Harpo Marx and finishes his performance 
with a tribute to the loveable Charlie Chap
lin.The delightful Sesame Street characters 
perform in both halves of the show. As 
always, their music is upbeat and their 
antics fun. Yes, this is where they choose 
fifty lucky children from the audience for 
a special ride down their street.
Staging for this years show has been 
widely expanded. In fact, with the use of 
synthetic ice, the action is brought directly 
into the audience and the special effects 
never stop happening. Producer Bob Shipstad has literally pulled out all the stops in 
a space fantasy called Crystal Galaxy.The footlights sparkle but not more 
than the talented skaters who strut in top 
hats, diamonds and feathers. The famous 
Mr. Frick, of Frick and Frack, personifies 
the words professional showman. Cele
brating 40 years with the Ice Follies, this 
amazing Swiss athlete continues to bring 
joy to all who see him perform.
Richard Dwyer, in his 29th season epit
omizes the classic grace and style of great 
skating. Know'n to millions as Mr. Debo
nair, he introduces the precision line of 
glamorous skaters for the finale.
This years show also features Dianne
deLeeuw, Olympic Silver Medalist of 1975. 
Dianne is a whirlwind of energy. In a stand
out appearance, she skates to the popular 
music from A Chorus Line and gracefully 
executes even the most difficult 
manoeuvres.
The two-hour festival also includes the 
ballroom dancing of the Beattys and a 
unique performance by young British sen
sation Paul Heath.
Action packed and breathtaking, the 
1979 Ice Follies covers the continents in
talent, music and costumes. It plays at 
the Civic Arena from March 13 to March 
18 for nine unforgettable performances. 
Tickets are available at the Civic Arena, or 
at all Kaufmanns stores. For ticket infor
mation, phone 391-5074.
From a country as clean and un
spoiled as Canada, youd expect a very 
special taste. Fresh from North Americas 
most experienced brewery, Molson has 
been making friends on both sides of the 
border since 1786.
Our three import brands are ready to 
show you just how great Canada can taste.
Make it the heartiness of Molson 
Ale, spirited Canadian Beer, 
or smooth Golden.
Or all three.
AVAILABLE AT YOUR FAVORITE 
PUB OR BEER DISTRIBUTORS
J

---------------------------------------------------

Tartans still tops
Although the tartans of Carnegie-Mel
lon University failed to capture the Presi
dents Athletic Conference championship, 
they have many things to be proud of. 
They have provided the campus communi
ty with many exciting moments of collegi
ate basketball throughout the 1978-79 sea
son and if it is any consolation to the play
ers and coaches, we would like to say 
thank you on behalf of the campus com
munity.
The Tartans once again finished second 
in the P.A.C. with a 10-4 conference re
cord and were 11-9 overall. They boasted 
the conferences stingiest defensive unit, al
lowing only 970 points throughout the sea
son for a 69.2 p.p.g. average. They also 
managed to score 74.7 p.p.g. in 1978-79. 
As a team, the Tartans finished second to 
Allegheny in field goal percentage, shoot
ing 50.1% from the field and they main
tained a 67.6% average from the free throw 
line.
Individually, CMU boasted the confer
ence scoring champ, Larry Hufnalge. Huf
fy maintained a scoring average of 21.4
p.p.g., and shot 60.0% from the field (third 
in the conference). He also placed fifth in 
the PAC rebounding loop and tenth in re
bounding percentage. Mariano DeFilippo 
also had an outstanding year. The CMU 
point guard was fourth in PAC assists with 
a 5.4 asq. average, and sixth in the PAC 
free throw percentage (82.0%). Dave Hof
meister finished just behind Hufnagle in 
rebounding, taking in 8.4 rebounds a game. 
Joe Belechak merited seventh place in as
sists per game, with an average of 4.4. Bud
dy Hobart proved to be a Tartan stalwart 
throughout most of the season with his 
timely shooting and sharp passing. Under
hill, Lewis, Donahoe, Stefanick and Ellis 
provided the Tartans with plenty of depth 
in every position.
Again, we would like to wish Coach 
Dave Maloney and the Tartans good luck in 
next years campaign. Next year could be 
our year to recapture the PAC crown. As 
for this year, we say second place aint so 
bad! Congratulations Tartans!!
Sports Editors: 
Howard Turner 
Perry Colosimo
Larry Hufnagel, top rebounder, scorer and well 
rounded hoopster. Huff's skills help carry the 
Tartans to victory, and given the chance at a 
playoff berth, his skills would have won the
game.
Mariano (Flip) DeFilippo, the Tartans assister. 
Flip's top assists have carried the Tartans to vic
tory 10 out of 14 times in the P.A.C. season, and 
his 20 foot jumper at the buzzer broke the 68-68 
tie between CMU and Allegheny.
Joe Belechak charges inside for two of his many 
points in drives to score.
Photos by Ramanan and Skip BrazeltonI hey finish on top in PAC
In their opening game of the Presidents 
Athletic conference season the Tartans 
defeated John Carroll, 6164. Dave 
Hoffmeisters 3 point play with 16 seconds 
left in the game broke a 61-61 deadlock. 
Larry Hufnagel led scoring with 17 points 
and Mariano DeFilippo was tops with 6 
assists.
On January 20, the Tartans grabbed an 
8462 victory over Case Western Reserve. 
Dave Hoffmeister scored a career high 20 
points. At that point in the season, the 
Tartans led the PAC with a 40 record. 
In the next game agaisnt Bethany, Larry 
Hufnagel led the scoring with a sizzling 
32 points; DeFilippo and Joe Belechak 
combined for 41 points to secure an 82 
76 win and the Tartans continued to the 
PAC with a 50 slate. DeFilippo also led 
in assists with 10.
The Tartans suffered a 9 point defeat to 
Allegheny in the January 27 game, and 
their record was brought to 51. February
10 brought an impressive 7972 victory 
over Case Western Reserve. Buddy Hobart 
scored a career high 22 points and 
Hufnagel broke out of a scoring slump for 
22 points and 14 rebounds. In their next 
game against Thiel, another victory was 
scored with Hufnagels super performance 
of 35 points, 18 rebounds, and 3 block 
shots. The score was 84-62.
The Tartans record came to 93 with 
their win over Allegheny 9286. Top
scorers, DeFilippo and Hufnagel each 
helped the Tartans charge for victory over 
Allegheny who defeated the Tartans in 
earlier season play; each had 24 points. In 
their last game of the season, the Tartans 
won a squealer against Washington and 
Jefferson, 7068. Mariano DeFilippo shot 
a 20 foot jumper at the buzzer to squeeze 
the Tartans past W & J. The Tartans
finished their season with 
record.
10-4 PAC

---------------------------------------------------

Page 24-TARTAN-March 6, 1979
Volleyball Season Opens
The CMXJ Volleyball Ciub begins its
1979 season with a home match against 
West Virginia. University this Thursday, 
March 8th, The CMU club, funded by Stu
dent Government, is in its fourth year of 
existence.
The Tartans are defending champions of 
the WPIVA (Western Pennsylvania Intercol
legiate Volleyball Association). They de
feated rival Indiana University of Pennsyl
vania in the finals, 15-5, 12-15, 15-10, 
15-9, to win the Title last April.
CMU has participated in two pre-season 
tournaments, the Pitt and Slippery Rock 
Invitationals. At Pitt, CMU was mis
matched against Ohio State (3rd in 
NCAAs), George Williams University 
(NAIA champs), Army, and Penn. Needless 
to say, the team did not win a game. At 
Slippery Rock, CMU placed third behind 
IUP and Allegheny.
CMU will play four other home matches 
in March and April. Watch the sports sec
tion for details.
i!..
ALONE AND PREGNANT?
A caring, confidential friend, 
LIFELINE, DOWNTOWN PITTSBURGH 
562-0543. Free Pregnancy Testing. 
Evening Hours Available
WANTED:
Engineering and 
Science Majors To 
Help Make History.
1955. A small dedicated team of scientists and engineers began to design and construct the first submarine-launched ballistic missile, the Polaiis. The team made history.
1965. The creation of the second-generation missile, the Poseidoyi. This follow-on design challenged the Nations best engineering talent.
1978. The Trident Project. Continues past experience with state-of-the-art technology.
The Strategic Systems Project Office of the U.S. Navy has a limited number of career openings in three of the most important projects in1 recent historyPolaris, Poseidon and Trident. As part of this team, you will be directly involved in R&D, T&E, production, logistic support, field maintenance and training.
Contact your Placement Office for an interview with the Capital Area Personnel Services Office, Navy (CAPSO-N) recruiter on March 16 or write:
Strategic Systems Project Office Department of the Navy Washington, D.C. 20376 ATTN: Recruitment Committee
An Equal Opportunity Employer.
SOFT CONTACT LENSES 
$0500M A PAIR
HARD LENSES
St*
$ 55 00A PAIR
Price includes orientation, insertion and removal training, complete care-kit and 
carrying case.
The fitting fee will include a spectacle lens prescription and on examination for 
the fitting of contact lenses by Dr. Palmieri. If any changes should occur in the fit or 
prescription within 90 days from the date you receive your lenses we will modify or 
exchange as many lenses as necessary ro to give you the proper fit, vision and com
fort. In many cases you will be able to wear your contacts home on your initial visit 
with us. A 2 week follow up visit is scheduled for every patient.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CALL
DR. D. A. PALMIERI
OPTOMETRIST
RT. 19N. WEXFORD, PA.
(NEXT TO STEEL CITY)
935-5761
111%HIP
DtK
Member
American Optometric Association
TM
EVENING & SATURDAY APPOINTMENTS AVAILABLE
IM Basketball Standings
MAJORS
TARHEELS
1.SMD9-2
2.Over The Hill Gang8-4
3.Blue Bombers7-4
4.SAE-A6-4
5.Unbelievable6-5
6.Losers6-6
7.Toast & Jam5-6
8.55th & Halstead1-10
BLUEDEVILS
1.Big Bucks10-0
2.Fish8-5 *
3.Frosh7-7
4.PIKA-A5-6
5.BetaA5-7
6.ATO-A4-8
7.PKT-A2-9
8.Off2-10
INTERMEDIATES
IRISH
1.F. B. Inc.7-0
2.ZOO6-0
3.5-06-1
4.ABA4-3
5.Aces4-3
6.Wet Dreams3-4
7.ATO-AA1-4
8.Slaughterhouse 51^
9.Naveders1-5
10.Cones & Co.1-6
11.Theta Xi Esquires1-6
FRIARS
1.Terrible Tile7-0
2.Alkazid Kids7-1
3.Schlag3A5-2
4.Hawks4-2
5.Mothership4-3
6.Short People3-2
7.Mudge Mauraders24
8.Slugs2-5
9.ZBT-A1-5
10.Allies0-6
11.Pi Lambda Phi0-7HOOSIERS
1.Planets7-0
2.Small Change5-1
3.Magoo5-2
4.DTDA5-3
5.Slippery Mellons4-2
6.MacksA3-4
7.Dribbling Members2-3
8.PIKA-RED2-5
9. PKT-B0-5
10. SAE-B0-5
11. Animals II0-6
WOLF PACK
1. DAZZ7-0
2. ALevel6-1
3. Stench5-1
4. KS-A5-2
5. Susans Antons4-4
6. DU2-3
7. Coaches All-Stars2-4
8. White Cross2-4
9. Speedy Others1-5
10. PKT C0-6
11. TXMonsters0-6
MINORS
SPARTANS -
1. Bell Boys5-1
2. History Hawks5-1
3. Skid Row4-2
4. ANess2-3
5. Beta C2-3
6. DTDB1-3
7. Allies Also1-4
8. ZBT-B1-4
RAZORBACKS
1. Intensive Care Unit4-0
2. Young Men3-2
3. Cossacks2-2
4. Macks B2-2
5. 3E2-2
6. 5E Eagles1-3
7. Mech. E. Grads0-4
GOPHERS
1. Insane4-0
2. Robber Barons4-0
3. Something Better3-2
4. Sigma NuB2-3
5. RKT1-2
6. GGG1^
7. Pika Gold0-4
PANTHERS
1. Bozos4-1
2. Turing Machine4-1
3. KS B3-1
4. Boss Hall3-2
5. Bio Hazards1-3
6. Doherty1-3
7. Einstein Intersection1-4
meihoniinl &Electrical Engineering Gruduutes
Black & Decker, the leader in the grow
ing power tool industry, has outstanding 
entry level opportunities offering uncom
mon career potential for engineering 
graduates in the above disciplines.
Please visit our Representative 
on March 16
If not available on this date, please 
forward your resume to John Shobert, Personnel Department! Black & Decker
701 East Joppa Road 
Tow son, Maryland 21204
An equal opportunity employer M/F

---------------------------------------------------

March 6,1979-TARTAN-Page 25
National Car Rental
Individual Call Pool:
1. CommissionerDoug Wilson KS
2. Entry due March 8
Co-Rec Badminton
1. CommissionerPierre Laughton, ext 4230 ,
2. Entry due March 8
Team Badminton Fencing and Archery
1. Entry due- March 15th 1. Please sign up with Miss Fisk.
2. Entry due March 15th.
GIRLS .... ARE YOU LOOKING FOR A SUM
MER COUNSELOR POSITION? Applicants 
are now being considered for the 1979 camp 
season. Most be able to teach one of the 
following: Arts & Crafts, Arts & Crafts Direc
tor, Dancing, Piano Accompanist and singing,
Archery, Tennis, Trampoline, Gymnastics,
Photography, Cheerleading, Riflery (N.R.A.),
Scouting and Nature Study, A.R.C. Swimming 
Instructor, Boating, Canoeing and Water 
Skiing Instructor or General Athletics.
Secretary also needed.
COUNSELOR UNIT LEADERS, must be college 
graduate experienced in camping. Able to 
plan schedule for activities, evening 
programs, etc. Supervise large staff. Write 
Camp Office, 138 Woodland Drive, Pittsburgh,
Pa. 15228 or phone, 412 563-2772.
Pregnant? And you didn't 
mean to be? For a free 
pregnacy test and con
fidential, understanding 
support, call Birthright.
621-1988
m mt 0' 9 m 0~  0 i* * in 0 $ i Hi i i  r i--------    ~ i
Important
I Tuesday, March6,12:30 PM
Room 104, Gym (IM Office) 
Please Plan to Represent 
' ' Youi Team at this meeting
  pmi1 n
*%  ^> special Announcements 
SAVE
; CMU Intramural Night 
Friday, March 16,7 PM to 10 PM
IM News Center
Basketball:
Please check IM Bulletin Board for play off schedule.
Handball standings:
Please turn in scores to IM office.
IM Wrestling was concluded tms week
end with an individual tournament. 
Champions were:
125 lbsMarc Poland 
135 lbsMarc Poland 
145 lbsJim Hackett 
155 lbsDenny Checca 
165 lbsJon Ross 
175 lbsRobin Pettit
190 lbsRandy Lipscher 
HWT -David Meassic 
Although the number of participants 
was low, competition was fierce and there 
was no shortage of talent shown. High
lights included an outstanding match 
between Jon Ross and Denny Checca. 
Team champions, were once again, Kappa 
Sigma, led by Marc Poland.
SPORTS IN SEASON
Floor Hockey:
Floor Hockey will be postponed until next year.
Table Tennis:Singles and Doubles:
A. Commissioner Jeff McCarthey DU
B. Schedules are out, please get games played and turn in scores.
Team Call Pool:
A. CommissionerEric Hirsh
B. Please get games played and turn in the scores.
SPORTS DUE
Special Matinee $1 Discount for College Students! 
For information Phone 281-5000
Ave le5
4621 ^osecwayg-- 
 n0 h 9 easy for V <^ 8 M  "
no,0,
w'ee f f 6 'o0p^^ toe^'^ d d ^ 1 n (wi''oa tFriday an" e(urn *he c , . eoch day. a bjed *o reservation
<or 9a5,Mhe irs. 2C ountable and 1your res charge for the^ non-discau availab,|,ty.
8:0 eac ^ cors subl w. oitor s 9 9 Grn FF|
notice. stamp certificates on moyim
rentals In all 50 U.S. states. *
todayhch-, i\yi
TEACHINJAPAN
"MARVELOUSLY ENTERTAINING .
THEY PROVIDE VERY SIMPLY, A GREAT EVENING IN THE 
THEATRE THAT IS TOUCHING, ACCURATE AND PRO
FOUND."  Clive Barnes. N. Y. Times
TWO SUPERB PERFORMANCES ONLY! 
Saturday, March 17 at 2 p.m. and 8 p.m.
Tickets Eve. Perf.: $9.50, $8.50, $7.50; Mat. Perf. $8.50, $7.50, $6.50 
on sale at Heinz Hall and Kaufmann s
MUMMENSCHANi
Swiss Mime-Mask Theatre
Anyone with a bachelors degree in dif
ferent engineering fields, produc
tion/manufacturing. quality-control. 
materials management or procurement 
wishing to teach full-time fo r one or two 
years in lapan should write to:
Personnel Director 
International Education Services 
Shin Taiso Building 
10-7, Dogenzaka 2-chome 
Shibuya-ky, Tokyo 150 
lapan
The position involves teaching 
Japanese businessmen and engineers the 
basic vocabulary in various fields.
No lapanese-language is required for 
classroom instruction. Teaching ex
perience is not required. An orientation is 
given in Tokyo
Information on salary, transportation 
and housing can be obtained by providing 
International Education Services with a 
detailed resume and a leather indicating 
an interest in the position.
Personal interviews will be held in your 
area between the middle to end of April.
Selected applicants would be expected 
to arrive in Tokyo from lune through Sep
tember. 1979.661-2772
ESSEX HOUSE LL2 
Corner of Negley & Centre 
Pittsburgh 15206
TEST PREPARATION 
SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938
Visit Our Centers 
And See For Yourself 
Why We Make The Differenee 
Call Days, Eves & Weekends

---------------------------------------------------

Paga 26TARTANMarch 6.1979
Pearl, Sarah and Ella . . . Mme. de Larrocha to play Beethoven
continued from pHP 19
Happens and Take Love Easy.
Ella Fitzgerald was headlining at the 
Apollo Theatre the night eighteen year old 
Sarah Vaughan performed in the weekly 
amateur contest. As did Ella and Pearl be
fore her, she won first prizewhich consist
ed of ten dollars and a weeks engagement 
at the theatre. Sarahs entry was a rendi
tion of Body and Soul which later became 
one of her biggest hit records.
Sarahs two octave range and her ability 
to sing tones which do not fall on the nat
ural t6nes of the scale, but more into quar
ter and even smaller tones, led to her being 
nicknamed Sassy. She soon signed with' 
the Musicraft label and her early hits in
cluded Everything I Have is Yours, Im 
Through with Love, Tenderly and Sum
mertime. Along with Ella and Pearl, she 
earned a reputation as a jazz singer in the 
professional sense of the term, that is, a 
singer who can improvise with her voice as 
a jazz musician does with his instrument.
Pearl Bailey, Ella Fitzgerald and Sarah 
Vaughan represent the best of one of Am
ericas most productive musical periods. 
The heritage they have brought through 
decades of music makes their sound even 
more special and new today than it was 
forty years ago.
Sarah Vaughn, is scheduled to appear along with 
Ella Fitzgerald and Pearl Bailey, in the TV 
program Salute to Pearl Bailey, on March 14.
A chat with Chapman
continued from page 19
an interesting discovery, Graham should be 
addressed as Dr. Graham Chapman, being 
an M.D.
When we got to the hotel, Graham in
vited us to the bar for a drink. Wed told 
him about the PLCB but he hadnt believed 
something like that existed. When he didnt 
have a card (and we didnt have any cards) 
they refused to serve him, even up in his 
room.
We left the bar and said goodnight to 
Graham in the lobby. He said that if he was 
ever in town (and we mentioned to him 
that we would try to get CMU to book 
Monty Python when they go on tour), that 
hed look us up and maybe have a party 
with the rest of Python. It would be fan
tastic to have a party with all of Monty 
Python, but compared to the normal social 
activities at CMU, this night was something 
completely different.
Spanish pianist Alicia de Larrocha, cur
rently observing her 50th year in music, 
will perform in concert with the Pittsburgh 
Symphony Orchestra, Andre Previn con
ducting, during two consecutive weekends 
in March. During the course of six concerts 
here she will play all five Beethoven Piano 
Concertithe first time she has ever perfor
med this complete set with any orchestra.
The schedule for these events is as fol
lows: Friday, March 9, at 8:30 PMBeet
hoven Concerti Nos. 1 and 4; Saturday, 
March 10, at 8:00 PMConcerto No. 5 
(plus, the orchestra will perform Elgars 
Opus 36, Variations on an Original 
Theme); Sunday, March 11, at 2:30 PM 
the March 9 program will be repeated. 
Then, on Thursday, March 15, at 8:00 PM, 
the concert will again be comprised of 
Beethovens Piano Concerto No. 5 and the 
Elgar composition which is also called En
igma. On Friday, March 16, at 8:30 PM, 
and Sunday, March 18, at 2:30 PM, Con
certi Nos. 2 and 3 as well as contemporary 
British composer Nicholas Maws Life Stu
dies will be performed. Information regar
ding the availability of turned-back tickets 
to these otherwise sold out concerts may 
be obtained by phoning the Heinz Hall box 
office at 281-5000.
One of this centurys most superlative 
keyboard artists, Alicia de Larrocha has 
been hailed throughout the world for her 
interpretations of music by Mozart, Bach, 
Beethoven, Brahms, Ravel, Debussy, Chop
in, and Haydn, among others. In the music 
of Albeniz, De Falla, Granados, Turina and 
other Spanish composers, she is unsurpas
sable. She regularly performs with virtually 
every major orchestra and has made fre
quent appearances in Pittsburgh.
The de Larrocha talent matured in rel
ative obscurity. I never thought about a 
career, she says. But the talent was too 
big to hide, and in 1950, conductor Alfred 
Wallenstein heard her in Europe and invit
ed her to California for his concerts with 
the Los Angeles Philharmonic. The res
ponse was excellent, so Mme. de Larrocha 
went on to New York for a debut recital 
at Town Hall. Again the reviews were raves 
and the audiences enthusiasticbut no
thing happened.
No managers begged for her services, no 
orchestras came pleading. De Larrocha 
shrugged and went home to Spain. I 
didnt mind, she says. I wasnt ambit
ious.
For the next ten years she taught (as
suming Marshalls position as director of 
the Marshall Academy after his death in 
1959); she played European recitals and 
made recordings. Then in 1965 an Amer
ican manager heard the records, fell in love 
with them and decided to do something 
about it. He brought her to New York for 
a second debut. Miss de Larrocha, beam
ed the New York Times, is a pianists 
pianist and a musicians musician. Packed 
houses, wildly enthusiastic reviews and 
eager offers from concert associations were 
the order of the day. The career soared and 
the rest is history.
When she is not concertizing, she lives in 
Barcelona with her husbandalso a pianist 
and teacherand two children, Alicia and 
Juan. She views her fame calmly. There 
are not enough hours, days or years for me 
to encompass all the music I would like to 
study, to play or simply listen to for pleas
ure. Music is my life.
A select group of Symphony patrons 
known as The Presidents Circle will celeb
rate Mme. de Larrochas musical golden 
anniversary with a dinner party at the Con
cordia Club on March 8. A special presen
tation will be given to her on this occasion.
Later in the month, the Pittsburgh Sym
phony and de Larrocha will repeat their 
performances of the five Beethoven con
certi at Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center 
in New York City.
To celebrate the successful conclusion of the term of the 1978-79 
TARTAN Editorial Board, the staff of the TARTAN is offering
FREE CLASSIFIEDS
in the March 20th issue, (before Spring break) 
Say anything you'd like, any way you'd like
1
( 15 word maximum)
Mail Campus Mail to THE TARTAN, Box 17

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTS^CLASSIFIED ADS --------
Classified Announcements:
Deadline, Wednesday, noon. Rate  $.10 
word. Address all classifieds to TARTAN 
Business Manager.
classified
Typing service. Fast, effective, reasonable.
IBM selectric. Term papers, dissertations, 
thesis. Call Rita. 521-5479.
Metric conversions made simple  charts, 
tables. Send $3.00 to A. Uzoma, Box 
3812, Pgh., Pa. 15230.
Apartment  2 rooms in 3-BR apartment. 
$97 including utilities. Available May 1, 
362-2812, Ann.
Oakland area large 2 BR furnished apart
ment for rent $270+ utilities. Immediate. 
655-1872 after 5.
Disco-Ballroom-Latin Dance Classes (less
than $1,.iour). Includes: showsdinner. 
"Holiday House." Call 241-2162.
Typing servicefast, accurate and depend
able. $1.00/page. Call 6874678.
DaisyHappy Birthday. I still like older women.
Love Berg
clubs
W3VC MEETING: March 13, HH 401,
at 8:00 PM. All people interested in HAM 
radio, please attend.
Do You Need Career Counseling? The
Summer Jobs Bank of SARC can put 
you in touch with a CMU alumnus in your 
field of study to discuss careers. Come up 
to the Alumni Office, 5th floor of Warner 
Hall, on Friday, March 9th, between 2:00 
PM and 4:30 PM.
Rent-A-Tech Employment Service offers
many jobs:
Architects!!! Jobs398,402,403,414. 
Babysitters galore: Come in and take your 
pick.
Carpenters and Handymen: Jobs 395,404, 
412,416.
Engineers: Repair wall, Job 405; house 
wiring (outlets) , Job 268; install sound 
system, 381. Other radio and T.V. repair. 
Painters! Jobs 406,411,415.
Typing: Secretary for week of 4/2 to 
4/9. Job 417; 30 pages English into com
puter terminal, Job 413.
Tune a Piano - 418; fix squeaky dryer - 
418; fix thermostat in stove - 418; wall
paper a bathroom (experienced). Job 
400.
Call x3535 or stop by our office (SKIBO 
58) for more information.
Openings at Tech House. The Catholic
House on campus has openings for next 
year. If interested call George at 621-2911.
The Communication Skills Center offers
individual instruction for students at all 
levels and in all colleges who need help 
with any aspect of writing. You can get 
tailor-made programs focused on specific 
writing and thinking skills, help in pre
paring and revising assignments, help with 
research projects, applications and resumes, 
and computer-assisted instruction. Call or 
come in to make an appointment with a fa
culty member: 161 Baker Hall, x2924, 
Monday through Friday 9:00 to 4:00.
The Student Senate needs pollworkers for
the upcoming elections. Pollworkers will be 
paid $3.00/hour. Pollworkers are needed 
Wednesday, March 14 between 8 AM and
12 Midnight, and Thursday, March 15 
between 8 AM and 8 PM. Please leave a 
note in the Rules Committee mailbox 
at the Skibo information desk, or call 
Michael Inners at x4623 if you are in
terested .
Scotch 'n' Soda, Spring Musical, "Or
chestra Call" will be held on Saturday, 
March 10, at 2:00 PM in Skibo Room 12. 
It is likely that there will be limited orches
tration for this year's show, but all interes
ted musicians are requested to attend. A 
drummer is definitely needed, as well as 
guitarists. Any questions may be directed 
to Scotch 'n' Soda, Skibo Room 40D, X3522.
general
President Richard M. Cyert will have
open office hours for students during Feb
ruary, March,and April.
The dates for these meetings are Wed
nesday, February 28, Wednesday, March 
14, and Friday, April 13. The time will be 
between 3 and 5 PM in the president's 
office. Students who wish to meet in
dividually with the president should tele
phone his office, 578-2000, for an appoint
ment between 3 and 4 PM. The hour be
tween 4 and 5 PM will be open for students 
who want to meet with the president but 
do not have an appointment.
It is hoped that this program will be a 
benefit to both the president and the stu
dents in allowing students direct contact 
with him.
John Crecine, Dean of H&SS holds open
office hours Tuesday, 1:30 to 3:30 PM.
The new Shipstads & Johnson Ice Follies
will return to the Pittsburgh Civic Arena 
March 13 thru March 18. The ice extrava
ganza features the Sesame Street charac
ters, Mr. Frick, Richard Dwyer, Diane 
deLeeuw and many more star skaters.
Special Tuition Discount for CMU stu
dents, staff, and faculty at their campus 
child care. center (Morewood Gardens) 
from now until April 30 only. Act now and 
take advantage of an even further reduc
tion in tuition for the Summer Program. 
We offer full or part time child care to chil
dren ages 3-5, Monday through Friday 
from 7:30 to 5:30. We would like to make
as many spaces available to CMU affiliates 
as possible, so in order to guarantee you a 
space call 578-2149 today.
The Pittsburgh Scottish Country Dance So
ciety will hold its regular class on Friday, 
March 9 at 8:00 PM at the First Presbyter
ian Church in Wilkinsburg. The group 
meets on the first and third Saturdays of 
the month at 7:30 PM, and on the second 
and fourth (and fifth, if there is one) Fri
day at 8 PM. Newcomers are very welcome 
to attend. For more information, call 
Robin Drake at 421-7179.
Ann Lowry, of Gulf Oil Corporation, will 
speak on long term career planning on 
Wednesday, March 7 in Skibo Room 11 at 
7:30 PM. Sponsored by"the Society of Wo
men Engineers, and open to the campus 
community.
"The History of Abortion Law" will be
presented by Pat Miller, Esq. at the March 
13 meeting of the Squirrel Hill chapter of 
the National Organization for Women at 
8:30 PM in the Squirrel Hill Urban Coal
ition, 2021 Murray Avenue.
Ms. Miller will discuss the efforts that le
galized abortion; the opposition and its tac
tics prior to 1973 and since the legalization 
of abortion; the climate of the country sur
rounding the issue now; and the future of 
the freedom to choose.
Feminist author and activist Kate Millett 
will speak on March 7 at 7:30 PM in the 
student union ballroom at the University 
of Pittsburgh. The event is sponsored by 
the Pittsburgh Campus chapter of the Na
tional Organization for Women, and the 
Pitt Union Programming Council. It is be
ing held to celebrate International Wom: 
en's Day, which is on March 8.
The Vedantic Society takes pleasure in
announcing its first event: a talk by Ms. 
Janani Cleary, to be held in Wherret Room, 
Skibo, Wednesday, March 21 at 7:30 PM. 
The subject of the talk is: "Introduction to 
Vedanta  A Study in Self-Awareness." 
Vedanta is a means of knowledge about 
oneself. It does not cater to any particular 
set of beliefs or religion, but in fact consti
tutes an intensive and scientific search for 
better understanding of the individual.
Admission is free and open to all. For fur
ther information please call Vivek Bammi 
X2935, 362-5197 Vibhu Kalyan X2475, 
683-4913.
"What Were American Jews Doing While
Six Million Died?" will be the topic of a 
lecture by Rabbi Haskell Lookstein at 2:30 
PM, Sunday, March 11, in the Jewish Com
munity Center's Rogal Room, 2nd floor, 
315 S. Beliefield Ave. The event is cospon
sored by The Young People's Congregation 
and B'nai B'rith Hillel.
The Pitt Fusion Club presents: IRAN: 
A Study in Geopolitics. Speakers will be: 
Dr. Richard Cottam, Dept, of Political Sci
ence, Pitt, and James Gelvin, Director, W. 
Pa. U.S. Labor Party on Wed., March 7, at 
8:00 PM, in Room 104, David Lawrence 
Hall.
Carlow College presents a Lecture series,
"Pennsylvania Women: Yesterday and
Tomorrow." First in the series will be a 
lecture by Tillie Olsen, titled "The Future 
in the Past", on Thursday, March 8,1979, 
at 8 PM, in the Kresge Theatre, Carlow 
College Campus in Oakland. Admission is 
free. Sponsored by The Center for Contin
uing Education and the Women's Studies 
Department at Carlow.
scholarships
The Center for Technology Assessment and
Policy Studies (CTAPS) would like to an
nounce the availability of sixteen summer 
fellowships in technology assessment. 
CTAPS is located on the campus of RoseHulman Institute of Technology, in Terre 
Haute, Indiana. Technology Assessment 
a policy planning tool by means of which 
one can systematically examine societal 
effects that may result when technology is 
introduced, extended or modified. Stu
dent Fellows Will spend six weeks on the 
Rose-Hulman campus working closely with 
one another and with several faculty mem
bers of the Institute in the execution of 
Technology Assessment studies. The fel
lowship for students selected will include 
room and board for the six-week period, 
and an allowance of $100.00 per week. Ap
plications received by April 9,1979 will be 
considered and students notified of accept
ance by May 1, 1979. Students wishing to 
apply for one of the sixteen available fel
lowships should send a short resume out
lining their interests and academic exper
ience, a letter of reference from a faculty 
member or their Department Chairperson, 
and a grade transcript to: Dr. A.T. Roper, 
Director/CTAPS/ Rose-Hulman Institute of 
Technology/ Terre Haute, IN 47803.
ANNOUNCING the 20th annual scholar
ship awards of the Pennsylvania Federation 
of Democratic Women. Three scholarships 
will be awarded: a Florence Dornblaser 
Memorial Scholarship, an Emma Guffey 
Miller Memorial Scholarship, and a John J. 
Kane, Jr. Scholarship, each in the amount 
of $300.
Any deserving woman student in the ju
nior class of an accredited college or uni
versity may apply. The awards are for use 
during her senior year. She must be major
ing in political science, government, eco
nomics, or history, or preparing to teach 
one of these subjects. She must have good 
scholastic standing. She must be reasonably 
active in student activities. She must be a 
resident of Pennsylvania. She must esta
blish the need for financial aid. And she 
must possess a Democratic family back
ground or be an active participant in the 
affairs of the Democratic Party.
Applications must be postmarked no la
ter than April 15, I979. Applications may 
be obtained by writing to: Sophie Masloff, 
3566 Beechwood Blvd., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
15217.
* *Mdrch it, 5m5MO, /3
Uiwi

---------------------------------------------------

upcoming events
CMUs Baroque Ensemble will give a 
concert on March 14 in the Alumni Con
cert Hall at 8 PM.
Emanuel Ax, Pianist, will perform at the 
Moris Kaufmann Auditorium in the Jewish 
Community Center on March 11 at 8 PM. 
For more information call 521-8010.
On March 8 the Young Americans 
Salute Richard Rogers, a theatre review 
will be staged. Show time is at 8 PM. at 
Heinz Hall. For more information call 
281-8185.
The Vienna Choir Boys will appear at 
Heinz Hall on March 14 at 8 PM. For more 
information call 281-8185.
The Pittsburgh Camerata, under the 
direction of Arthur Wenk, will give three 
performances of its winter choral program, 
A Sacred Consert, on March 7 at Synod 
Hall Auditorium, 125 N. Craig St. at 8:30 
PM, March 11 at Frick Fine Arts Audi
torium at 2:30 PM, and March 18 at Kresge Auditorium, Carlow College, at 8 PM. 
All three performances are free and open 
to the public.
cinema...
SDC Presents on March 10:
Dirty Harry at 6,8,10, and 12 PM
Clint Eastwood. Dirty Harry is an 
expert suspense drama. Boston Globe, 
one of the year's ten best. A 
superb piece of....film making. Eastwood 
gives his best performance." Jay CocksTime.
The movie will be shown in DH 2210. 
Admission is $.50 with ID/$1 without.
This weeks movies in the Pittsburgh 
Film Repertory are: March 6, Man Who 
Fell to Earth; March 7, One Sings, the 
Other Doesnt; March 8, Take the Money 
and Run; March 9, They Shoot Horses, 
Don't They; March 10, Cabaret; March 11, 
Far From the Madding Crowd; and March
12, Zardoz. All seats are $2 with two show
ings nightly starting at 7:30 PM. For more 
information call 621-4445.
art...
There will be an Architecture Show at 
the Forbes Street Gallery from March 6- 
thru 11. Gallery times are 12 to 4 PM Wed
nesday thru Sunday and 7 to 9 PM Tues
day thru Thursday.
CMU Student Projects will be on dis
play in the Entrance Gallery of the Mu
seum of Art, Carnegie Institute from Feb
ruary 1 thru April 1. Museum hours are 
Tuesdays thru Saturdays 10
CMU alumnus, Cynthia Ference, will 
ohow recent drawings and paintings, in the 
Velar Gallery (GSIA) from March 5 to 
March 16. Gallery hours are Monday 
through Friday, 9 to 5.
On March 19 the Hewlitt Gallery will 
have a grand re-opening with a show by 
Philip Pearlstein, a CMU alumnus. Gallery 
times are daily from from 10 AM to 4 PM 
and evenings of CFA performances.
Nine West Coast Clay Sculptors will be 
the exhibition on display in the Arts and 
Crafts Center of Pittsburgh thru March 18.
Two dimensional shapes create three di
mensional forms. A show of paintings and 
sculptures by: Peter Risser, Stuart Suna 
and Steven Abrue. Fred Lorini Gallery, 
153 Boggs Ave., Mt. Washington. Cham
pagne opening Sunday, March 11, 4-8 
PM. The exhibition can be viewed free 
of charge, Monday thru Saturday from 
1:30-5:30 PM.6"tc...
Mummenschanz, a Swiss mime-mask 
troupe, will entertain at Heinz Hall on 
March 17 at 2 and 8 PM. For more infor
mation call 281-8185.
The Duquesne University Union will 
present a dance-theatre concert featuring 
the modern dance troupe, Danceteller. 
Scheduled for March 8 at 8 PM in the 
Duquesne Union Ballroom, the perfor
mance is free and open to the public. 
For more information call 434-6638.
Prof. Herbert Simon will be the next 
speaker at the Pitt-CMU Philosophy Club 
meeting on March 8 at 7:30 PM in the 
Mudge House Lounge. The topic will be 
More Thoughts on Computers Thinking.
On March 7 at 7:30 PM, SDC will have 
a study break in the Morewood Rec room. 
The study break is for students to meet the 
new SDC vice president and representatives 
of Morewood/Mudge area and for SDC to 
answer and ask questions about living and 
using the dorm. Also the meeting is for 
attracting new representatives into SDC 
to make SDC more responsive to the dorm 
residents.The Bat-Dor Dance Company of Israel 
will perform March 6 and 7 at Heinz Hall. 
Curtain time is 8 PM. For more informa
tion call 355-0330.
Seamus Heaney will give a reading as
part of the International Poetry Forum on 
March 7 at 8 PM. in the Carnegie Lecture 
Hall. Student tickets are $2.25.
Movement: An extravaganza of the 
Arts, which depicts the martial arts in an 
artistic way, will be presented at The Sol
diers and Sailors Memorial Hall on March
si Tart
AB's Coffeehouse Committee will pre
sent Eric Wood on March 10 in the 
Wherrett Room. Eric Wood is a well known 
performer on the coffeehouse circuit and 
has opened and or split the bill with 
various acts such as Kris Kristofferson, 
Pure Praire League, Mother Earth, and Josh 
White Jr. Opening the Coffeehouse will be 
Robin Russell, also from New York. The 
coffeehouse will begin at 9:30 P.M. This 
event is free and open to the campus com
munity. Refreshments will be served. 
MARCH 8 at 6,8,10, PM 
NINOTCHKA in DH 2210 
Admission is $.75 with ID/$1 without.
As a Russian agent sent to Paris to 
check up on two errant comrades, Greta 
Garbo gives in to the champagne and ro
mance of Paris. Her performance is witty 
and charming under the direction of the 
incomparable Ernst Lubitsch.
MARCH 9 at 6,8,10,12 PM 
PRETTY BABY in DH 2210 
Admission is $1 with ID/$1.25 without.
Pretty Baby is one of the most unusual 
love stories in the history of American 
cinema. Louis Malle gives us a careful 
depiction of the amoral life of a child 
prostitute in turn of the century New 
Orleans. Starring Brooke Shields as the 
child and Keith Carradine as her lover.theater...
The CMU drama department will pre
sent George Bernard Shaw's Misalliance 
from March 15 thru 24. Tickets can be 
obtained from the CMU box office with 
ID.
The Pittsburgh Laboratory Theatre will 
present Edward Albee's The American 
Dream from February 2 thru March 10. 
Curtain times are Thursdays and Sundays 
at 8 PM and Fridays and Saturdays at 8:30 
PM. For reservations call 621-2876.
Theatre Express will present Made By 
Two on March 8, 9, 10, 11, 15, 16, 17, 18, 
22, 23, 24, 25, 29, 30, 31 and April 1. 
Curtain times are Thursdays, Fridays and 
Saturdays at 8:30 PM and Sundays at 2 
PM. For reservations call 621-5454.
The McKeesport L.ittle Theatre will pre
sent Twigs on March 16, 17, 18, 23, 24, 
25, 30, 31, and April 1. For more infor
mation call 673-1100.
Pittsburgh Laboratory Theatre will {re
sent Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are 
Dead from March 23 thru April 28. Cur
tain times are Thursdays and Sundays 
at 8 PM and Fridays and Saturdays at 
8:30 PM. For reservations call 621-1
Pittsburgh Public Theatre will present 
For Colored Girls Who Have Considered 
Suicide When the Rainbow Is Enuf. It 
will run from March 14 thru May 6. Pre
view performances will begin March 8. 
Seats may be reserved at the Public Box 
Office, 323-1900.
Sherlock Holmes, the original play by 
Arthur Conan Doyle and William Gillette, 
will open on March 9 at The Ridge Avenue 
Theatre on the Northside. Evening preformances are at 8 PM on March 9, 10, 16, 
and 17, with matinees at 2:30 PM on 
March 11 and 18. For reservations or ticket 
information contact the theatre depart
ment of the Community College at 808 
Ridge Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa., 15212, or 
call 237-2622 during the day and 237- 
2736 in the evening.
The Pittsburgh Playhouse will present 
Romeo and Juliet on March 15 thru April
11. Performances are Thursday thru Sun
day evenings at 8 PM. For more informa
tion call 6214445.
The Pittsburgh Metropolitan Stage 
Company will present The Metro in Molieres famous comedy Tartuffe for five 
weekends, February 15 through March 24. 
It will play Thursdays, Fridays, and Satur
days from February 15-24 and March 8-17 
at the Lovelace Marionette Studio at 5884 
Ellsworth Ave., and March 22-24 at the 
Smithfield United Church, 620 Smithfield 
St. Performances begin at 8 PM. A dona
tion is requested. For more information 
call 441-6176.
music...
The CMU Philharmonic will perform 
on March 18 in the Carnegie Music Hall 
at 8 PM.
The Renaissance City Woodwind Quin
tet will give a concert on March 11 at Car
low College in the Kresge Theatre. For 
more information call 578-4041.
Alicia de Larrocha, pianist, will perform 
with the Pittsburgh Symphony at Heinz 
Hall on March 9, 10 and 11. For time and 
ticket information call 281-8185.
The Preservation Jazz Band will appear 
at Heinz Hall on March 11 at 7:30 PM. 
For more information call 281-8185.
Up coming concerts at the Stanley The
atre are: Angel plus Trillion on March 10; 
Nazareth plus Thin Lizzy on March 17; 
Stephen Stills and his band plus Irakere on 
March 24; National Lampoon's If We're 
Late, Start Without Us on March 25; and 
Jack Morgan and the Russ Morgan Orches
tra on March 28. For more information call
