Plan Would Pay 
Student BossesH tartan
January 22, 1974 Volume 74 Number 13
Pitt Strikers Halt Trucks Here
Photos by Elliot Arons and Ed Levine
Student Government President Tanya Almond 
and Frank Napoli, WRCT General Manager
by Tom Schwartz
A number of student leaders could be 
receiving pay for their services beginning in 
the 1974-75 school year.
The number of people who will benefit 
from this program is undecided as of yet, 
but likely candidates include the Chairman 
of Student Senate, the Editor-in-Chief of 
the Tartan, the General Manager of WRCT, 
and various Student Senate Committee 
heads. The Executive Committee of 
Student Senate will make the recommend
ations concerning who will come under the 
guidelines of the program.
A motion passed by Senate on Decem
ber 4 paved the way for the program, 
which will involve the distribution of 
$2,500 in University funds, to be divided 
equally between the people involved.
According to Dean Swank, this program 
would not come under the workstudy pro
gram of C-MU, but rather under part-time 
employment. It would enable certain 
students who devote a great deal of time to 
activities for which they are not being paid, 
to receive financial support for the time 
and effort exerted. Such students in the 
past often had to take another job to make 
money, involving a great deal of extra time. 
However, under part-time employment, 
these students would be able to drop their 
jobs and allot more time to their activities, 
while receiving payment for them.
This program should provide a stimulus 
for the student. As a result, the quality of 
work should go up, and that particular 
activity, whether it be the Student Senate, 
the Tartan, etc., should benefit as a result. 
If a person is in a responsible position, the 
student will spend more time on the 
activity and will have plenty of time for 
academic work and recreational activities. 
Also, if a person is not on the workstudy 
program, the individual will try to be more 
responsible for their work on part-time 
employment.
What remains to be done is for Dean 
Swank to check with Prsident Cyert and 
the financial aid committee to get the pro
gram approved. Plus, the Student Senate 
must choose the nominations and select 
those people who will be rewarded.
by Steven Correll
Members of the janitorial union, 
currently on strike at the University of 
Pittsburgh, blocked truck deliveries to 
C-MU for several hours Friday morning.
The union acted in response to an agree
ment between Pitt and C-MU that would 
have relieved part of the impact of the 
strike by having Pitt deliveries sent to the 
C-MU loading dock. Because Teamsters 
refused to cross picket lines, deliveries to 
Pitt had been blocked since the janitors 
walked out late Tuesday night.
Apparently members of Service Em
ployees International Union (SEIU) Local 
29 learned of the C-MU--Pitt agreement 
and stationed a car along the street leading 
to C-MUs Porter Hall loading dock. 
According to John Heinlein, C-MU Pur
chasing Agent and Director of Stores, the 
men in the car would approach the trucks 
as they drove up and talk to the drivers,j 
convincing them to turn back.
goods intended for Pitt were affected.
A Pitt employee stationed at the C-MU 
dock to help receive shipped goods noted 
the situation and called Pitts Director of 
Central Services, Pat Reilly, who called off 
the arrangement with C-MU. The union 
then called off the blockade.
I told myself, look, this is our pro
blem. Theres no sense getting somebody 
else involved, explains Reilly.
Reilly said that Pitt had hoped to use 
the arrangement mainly for hazardous and 
perishable goods, including radioactive 
materials, live research animals, and animal 
foodstuffs.
The arrangement between C-MU and 
Pitt stemmed from a telephone call that 
C-MU President Richard Cyert made to Pitt 
Jhancellor Wesley Posvar before the strike 
began. According to C-MU Chief of Opera
tions Ronald M. Rutledge, Cyert made a 
general offer to help Pitt if a strike should 
develop. At Posvars suggestion, Rutledge 
spoke with Pitt Vice Chancellor for OperaBoth goods intended for C-MU and tions, Joseph A. Dutton.
Math Limits Languages, 
Allows Freer Electives
Chairman of the Math
by Thomas Kendig
The Math Department has revamped its 
policies concerning technical electives for 
majors. All CIT and MIS courses are now 
acceptable as technical electives, whereas in 
the past courses in computer science, statis
tics and mathematics, were not eligible. Un
til this change, the Math Department was 
the only department which did not allow 
its students to choose technical electives 
from their own field of study.
Another change involved limiting the 
modern languages admissable as technical 
electives to French, German, and Russian. 
A third states that only 27 units of the 72
Photo by Courtney Larson 
Department, Dr. R.S. Moore
required as technical electives can be taken 
in 100-level CIT and MIS courses.
All changes were instituted at the 
January 10 meeting of the MIS College 
Council.
The old rules had encouraged students 
to take just introductory courses,  said 
Dr. R.S. Moore, Chairman of the Math 
Department. The new techincal criteria will 
make it necessary for students to take 
more of the advanced, technical courses.
Moore added, We wanted students to 
have a minimum of restrictions in science, 
engineering, and mathematics, and to add 
more flexibility to what we call profes, continued on page 8
Finally, Reilly contacted Heinlein, who 
didnt know about the earlier conversations 
until he went to his superiors for per
mission to allow the delivery of Pitt goods 
*.o C-MU.
[The request]sounded reasonable to 
me, says Heinlein, but knowing the 
union situation, I had to bring Personnel 
into it... I didnt want to jeopardize the 
university.
continuea on page 8
Talks Feature 
CMU Leaders
by Sandy Lomo
The Every Other Tuesday Afternoon 
Forum is a new lecture series being spon
sored by the Activities Board of CMU. 
Robert Kleinman, lecture chairman of the 
AB, described the series as an open forum 
in which students are encouraged to 
participate by asking questions of the 
lecturers.
The lectures, free of charge to all CMU 
students, faculty, and staff will be held at 
12:30 pm. in the Wherrett Room of Skibo 
beginning February 5. On that date, Presi
dent Richard Cyert will speak on university 
operations, policy, and the general future 
of CMU.
The second address," to be held on Feb
ruary 19 is to b^ a combined effort in 
which Dr. Ronald* Rutledge, chief officer 
of pperations, Dr. Edward Schatz, provost 
and vice-president for academic affairs, and 
Dean Earle Swank, dean of student affairs, 
will participate and attempt to answer any 
and all questions put to them by students, 
faculty and staff.
Kleinman pointed out that the first two 
lectures are attempts at bringing students 
and administration closer together through 
open communication with each other. He 
commented, Students on this campus are 
not as apathetic as some people believe. 
Many of them just need the chance to meet 
university officials to become more 
involved.
Women in Madness will be the topic 
of the third lecture, scheduled for March 5. 
It will examine the changing role of women 
in western society. Following on March 12, 
Professor Tom Kerr of GSIA will speak on 
impeachment and its implications and 
consequences.
Professor Warren Farrell of Rutgers Uni
versity will be the speaker for the fifth 
lecture on March 19, which will be con
cerned with mens liberation. Head of the 
task force on male consciousness for the 
National Organization of Woman, Professor
continued on page 10

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2 THE TARTAN Tuesday, January 22, 1974
editors note
WHY PANIC WHEN ITS DUE TOMORROW 
AND YOUVE GOT TO BE OUT BY 17:00 
AND ITS TOO LATE TO START EARLIER....
The question / am continually confronted with is what can be done 
about the library hours?
The truth is neither complaints nor a petition has budged the steadfast 
time schedule.
The present hours exist for budgetary reasons- what else? The library' 
administration decides where to spend and where not to, and the obvious 
decision has been to save money by cutting study time.
Their argument is twofold: it costs too much to maintain a staff and to 
pay for utilities to keep the building open at night. But when you consider 
that custodial work is done at night, why not have them dean and us 
study as long as the lights are going to be on anyway?
In the past, head counts have shown, / am told, a marked drop in 
student use at 11:30. That is not necessarily significant if the library was 
dosing at 12:00 because people generally leave before the door doses. 
The only possible solution then is for students to demonstrate that they 
will use the extended hours. But the only way for students to demonstrate 
this is for the library to give them the opportunity to do so by extending 
the hours--Catch 22!
If money is really the crux of the problem, the hiring of workstudy 
students could cut the expense drastically. Undependability is the 
generalization that justifies not utilizing workstudy. But is there really 
that much difference between the graduates who now work nights and the 
undergraduates ?
The problem is irritating, if in fact as many students are as upset as 
seem to inform the TARTAN; and it is not strictly a monetary one. We 
get back to something called priorities. A representative of the library 
staff summarized it for me: If we are going to get money to extend 
library hours then Im going to complain to Cyert to get money for new 
journals.  Though no one can guarantee those journals would be used.
Ideally we should have a phenomenally well equipped library with a 
budget that allows both additional material and later hours.
Nothing is ideal at Cranberry-Money University either.
We should not be forced to decide between materials OR extended 
hours. But if priorities here are such that the library has to choose, 
perhaps it is better to have the time to use the resources we already have.
Christine Infante 
Editor in Chief
llllllll!l!|!|ll1IHHI!IHTIINtrllil,H!l|!JflT"r
Alternative to T.R. Surreptitious Self-edification
letters:
Editor:
In response to Stacey Kimbells article, 
-if you know nothing about Mid Eastern 
food, keep away from articles about MidEastern restaurants!! Khalils is our favorite 
place to eat in this town. The food is so 
well prepared, and the atmosphere (music 
and rugs included) so relaxing - it seems 
that Ms. Kimbell enjoys finding fault with 
the best.
Well, never matter, Khalils customers 
will continue to enjoy eating there, finding 
the food not too oily and the music and 
rugs pleasant and their stomachs and 
palates content. And Stacey Kimbell car 
stick to McDonalds.
A roomful of indignant customers at Khalils
P.S. Olive oil is never used at Khalils - cant 
Ms. Kimbell even taste that kind of 
difference???
Entertainment Editors note: Ms. Kimbell 
has never been in a McDonalds in her life. 
-SNK
Editor:
The mens varsity basketball team has
not been doing too well this year. Admit
tedly, they have some talented people but 
just cant seem to win a game. In view of 
the TARTANs policy of weekly coverage 
of the mens team, I am writing to voice 
my displeasure over the lack of coverage of 
the womens team. The women have won, 
not just a game, but a tournament. De
cember second, they traveled to Seton Hill 
(by cars, there are no busses for them) 
where they defeated first Duquesne and 
then Seton Hill to take the tournament. 
(The trophy they won is now on display in 
the non-existent womens trophy case.)
I can understand that the mens 
basketball team is perhaps of interest to 
more of the TARTANs readers but there is 
no reason that the winning womens team 
was not found in your sports section. The 
women are forced to practice and play in a 
gym so small that it constitutes a health 
hazard (i.e. running into walls and benches) 
and has little room for spectators. This gin 
does not even contain a drinking fountain.. 
The womens basketball team has suffered 
enough injustices and I trust that they can 
now expect support from the TARTAN. 
This is only fair to all CMU athletes and 
fans.
Marianne Vakiener
In first Gallon:
Do you remember 
the joke about the 
inebriated man who 
lunges out of the bar 
only to confront 
a man carrying a 
grandfather clock 
on his back?
In second:
. . . well the drunk 
sways up to the man 
and proclaims "Hey 
mishter . . . why 
can't sha carry a 
watch like the resht 
ofush?"
In third:
Now I know how the 
man felt.
tartan
Chris Infante, Editor-in-Chief 
Gary innei. Managing Editor 
Lester Natnan, Business Manager
News Editor: Robert Simbeck 
Features Editor: Shelley Burhans 
Head Reporter: Debbie Siegel 
Photography Editors: Ed Levine, 
Elliot AronS 
Entertaihment Editor: Susan Klein 
Sports Editor: Jeff Englund
Reporters: Sandy Como, John Craun, Thomas Kendig, Stephen Saunders, Tom Schwartz, Kevin 
Turcotte, Chip Yeager, Steve Correll
Entertainment: Mark Chimsky, Stacey KimbelK, Terri Caywood
Sports: Roger Geddes, Glenn Campbell. Leslie Allen, Myy Kay Burak, Mary Jo Chabala.
Jim Litsas, Mi*e Pochan. Mark Schiffman , Jan Lindberg, Philip Franklin, Mike Krivda 
Layout: Louise LoPinto
Photographers: Bruce Edelston,1 Ellen Eddy, Chris Forland, Nick Lardas, Elliot Popowitz, Rod 
Reilly, John Rose, Fredrick Shamlion, John Shettel, Courtney Larsen, Bryan Smith. Frank Stein, 
Rick Werme
Copy: Mina Gerall, Sandy Preuhs, Cathy Kinneavy 
Cartoonists: Ron Wiggins, Kitty Fischer
The Editorial Board of the TARTAN reserves the right to edit or withhold any copy that it 
considers unfit for publication. Published every Tuesday during the academic year by the student 
government of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania 15213. Deadlines are 12 noon 
for announcements, classified ads and letters to the editor and 5:00 p.m. for artirles and display 
ads on the Wednesday preceding the Tuesday of publication. Editorial and Business unices are 
located in Skjbo 50. Telephone (412) RP9-4557 or campus extension 655.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN - Tuesday, January 22, 1974 - Page 3
news comment
We more or less agree that the TARTAN is or should
-be informative 
-be a newspaper of record 
-be representative of student body concerns 
-"expose injustices, right wrongs and bring to harsh light of day all 
back row manipulations
-EC.
But other people naturally have other ideas. Some administrators try to 
use us as an extension of Public Relations; both administrators and 
student organizations occasionally treat us as a threat. And some students 
criticize us as not particularly relevant. Such perhaps are the unavoidable 
problems of any newspaper, campus or national.
But what we cant ignore is our function as a representative sampling of 
campus issues. We neglect areas. For example, we overlooked AB and 
security problems or budget allocation. We neglect them because we are 
not aware that they are a concern or we dont know they exist because 
the TARTAN staff, as a group, is not an even representation of students 
from each college. If the TARTAN is not what you want it to be itll 
change when you let us know.
It's the Language, 
Language
by Jose
Its the language, they said, we should not be asked to take two years of it, its 
the language requirement, the scientists said, look: the slide rule is our mother tongue, 
it produces money buildings roads, but your language is only spoken by poor people, 
because yes, in your country you still ride donkeys, its the language.
And the psychologists sociologists historians came with their tables, look: say 
you prefer statistics or computer science or Culture, but always Culture without 
language you know, no more grammar, no more conversation, no more literature, and 
all this took place long ago and we had language labs without students and we had 
classes without foreign talk and we had books without foreign words and the slide rule 
shrunk in half but so what, hunger, only hunger speaks a foreign language, only 
emotions speak like spies.
And then the journalists came. Its the language, they said, always always the 
language requirement. The proof, look: our country is the richest in the world and it is 
sufficiently rich to talk only money. You are dumb foreigners, foreigners, learn money 
language.
And guns were made that made us deaf and dumb to other languages and 
vaccines against foreign languages that sometimes backfired and vaccinated you against 
your own language, long live silence and isolation, and we had industries without 
technical translations and we had embassies without ambassadors and the entire 
population of the land gathered in a single room to watch All in the Family, but oil 
and sugar and coffee aind rubber and bananas and tin and^copper were still talking a 
foreign language.
Its the language, they said, the language, only thus can we explain such a rich 
country hated by its neighbors. Dont blame the CIA, ITT, its the language. k
And permission came from the oval office to abort all languages and foundation 
grants went to research in better ways of making people deaf and dumb and airplanes 
were used to spray silence gas and our streets were soon very quiet and we had no one 
arguing for or against anything and we had nothing in the stores but American 
products and the stores were empty, no more Mexican chocolate for our Hershey bars, 
no more Bolivian tin for our cans, no more Brazilian wood for our shelves and we had 
dolls that only sneezed but didnt speak and we had fishbowls with dead fish and no 
water that came from rivers that flowed into oceans that touched foreign shores and 
the entire population of the land now gathered inside a broom closet, its the language, 
they said, and then the entire population of the land gathered inside a desk drawer and 
say everywhere higher prices, inflation, energy crisis, its the language, they repeated in 
:horus, its the language.
Now I am the only left that can write, alone in a country that once included 
hundreds of different languages, and even I cannot speak any longer, I am deaf and 
dumb, even forgetting how to write. Its the language, they said, and I see them 
coming for me now and today I will die without being able to even scream, I will die in 
a. very rich country who was the very first country in the world to abolish on a 
national scale all language requirements and then all language, and I feel silence 
creeping in on me, an eternal silence, and irreversible eternal silence.
letters:
 Carnegie Roof 
Editor:
In this day of energy crisis along with 
economic prosperity and run-away infla
tion, the American people become faced 
with yet one more problem: traitors to 
their American heritage, citizenshin. and 
expected duties and rights. The Jewish 
population of this abused nation, the 
United States of America, who are carrying 
on pleas and drives for aid to the Israelies; 
openly proclaiming their allegiance to the 
Jewish flag yet while hiding behind the 
skirts of their American citizenship, are 
guilty of treason. No other nationality or 
race has ever worked so hard for a foreign 
nation; using the American citizenship as a 
crutch. Why did the Jewish population 
want us out of Vietnam and now want us 
into the Middle East? Vietnam or Israel-- 
what is the difference? The Jewish people 
are hypocrites and traitors and probably 
should be deported to the Israeli nation, 
before they turn this nation into an Israel' 
colony.
John Paul
Editor:
I am intrigued by the large amount of 
space spent each week in the TARTAN on 
news comment and editorials. It strikes me 
that many of these discuss situations never 
before mentioned in the TARTAN and cite 
facts never before printed. And naturally, 
they only cite facts that support the 
authors views.
Are we to receive information on poli
cies and actions only when a TARTAN 
staff member feels that they are interfering 
or otherwise bothering him personally, 
rather than learn of them when they are 
first presented? Perhaps it is easier to 
present an opinion than it is to present 
news. But am I alone in wondering what 
effect the presidents search for money and 
its respective sources will have on changing - 
departmental outlooks? Is the security 
force changing its role to that of a police 
force? What are the criteria for retaining 
teachers?
When there are security problems on 
campus or professors are not granted ten
ure, the TARTAN is quick to complain 
editorially but slow to research the rules 
and policies that stand behind the 
problems. t
I have been associated with several uni
versity committees and occasionally hear 
some information that interests me. Often, 
even though a member of the TARTAN 
staff is present at the time, I never see any 
mention of the matter in the news columns 
of the paper.
What disturbs me most is that often, 
a few weeks later, I read a commentary 
concerning this material about which I do, 
of course, have personal knowledge. On 
many occasions I find the facts cited in 
the commentary to be wrong or incom
plete.
This leads me to wonder how much 
news* the TARTAN actually prints. I 
realize that it is easier to ask someone to 
write  commentary and fill space that way
than to cull facts out of seemingly lifeless1 
documents that the university churns out.
Edward Simon
Dear Editor:
I just picked up the TARTAN and I am 
absolutely amazed. I have been here at 
CMU since 1964 and never have I seen such 
a well put together paper. Im on page 4 
now and I have to get back to work but I 
wanted to say how very much I appreciate 
your efforts.
This goes for your staff as well, of 
course.
Paul Newburg
P.S. Bravo on the editorial!
Editor:
I agree with Gary Bronheims views on 
campus organizations and their positive ef
fect toward a well rounded education. 
However, his generalizations on the various 
colleges workload and their effect on stu
dent activities are absurd. He implies that 
since their workload is reasonable, H&SS 
students now dominate the student organi
zations and activities that students in other 
colleges are too overloaded to participate 
in. A look at these groups show otherwise. 
Some of the most active members of Stu
dent Senate, WRCT, A-Phi-O, Scotch n 
Soda, MDC, and dozens of other organiza
tions, including the TARTAN, are students 
from CFA, MIS,CIT, etc. How do they do 
it? Each one sets his own priorities (activi
ties, social life, grades, job) and makes time 
to do the things that they feel are 
important, interesting, or enjoyable.
It can be shown that at least some of 
the large workload that CMU students en
dure (or thrive on) contributes to a good 
education. And education is supposed to 
be one of CMlTs strong points. If academic 
pressures get you down to the point of 
excluding all else, then youre probably in 
the wrong place.
Stephen Lee

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4THE TARTAN-Tuesday, January 22, 1974
announcements
Applications for the Vira I. Heinz Travel
Award are now available in the Financial 
Aid Office, 210 Warner Hall. This grant, 
established in 1967, will enable a woman 
student to study and travel abroad between 
her junior and senior years. The purpose of 
the $1,500^ward "is to have an articulate 
and perceptive young lady gain first-hand 
knowledge of international understanding 
and share her experience with other mem
bers of the college community upon her 
return.
Junior women interested in being con
sidered for this award must submit an ap
plication to the Financial Aid Office by 
February 15, 1974. A winner and three 
alternates will be selected and announced 
before the end of February. The selection 
committee will meet with all applicants at 
3:30 on Tuesday, February 19, in Warner 
Hall, Room 207. The application includes 
sections on itinerary, budget, course of 
study and reasons for desiring to partici
pate in the program. Financial need will 
not be a criterion. However, if it becomes a 
factor, the applicant should discuss the sit
uation with the Director of Financial Aid.
The CMU Winter Lunch and Lecture Series
entitled "Jewish Themes in World Litera
ture" will be held Monday, January 28, 
11:30 am., in Rooms 105, 106 Skibo. 
Prof. Anita Brostoff will speak on David 
the King by Gladys Schmitt." A complete 
lunch is $1.00 or just come and listen. 
Sponsored by B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish 
University Center.
The Pennsylvania Federation of
Democratic Women will award two $250 
scholarships to deserving women in the 
Junior class. A Florence Dornblaser 
Memorial Scholarship and an Emma 
Guffey Miller Memorial Scholarship will be 
granted to entourage young qualified 
women to pursue their interests in politics 
and government. The student must be ma
joring in political science, government, eco
nomics or history or preparing to teach one 
of these subjects. She must be active, in 
good scholastic standing and a resident of 
Pennsylvania. Applications must be post
marked no later than May 1, 1974. Th< 
awards will be presented on June 11th am 
are to be used during the Senior year. Ap
plications may be obtained by writing to: 
Memorial Scholarship Fund, Grace M 
Sloan, Chairman, P.O. Box 3804 
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania 17105.
Information entitled "Financial Aid
Programs for Minority and Disadvantaged 
Students in Law School" designed to assist 
prospective, as well as currently enrolled 
law students having substantial financial 
need, is available at the office of Thomas 
M. Kerr, Room 206, GSIA.
Plans are going into effect for an inter
collegiate Slovak club. The first meeting 
has been tentatively set for Thursday, Jan
uary 24 at 8:00 pm. in Room 113, Cathe
dral of Learning at Pitt. Interested persons 
can obtain more information by calling 
Emil Kravecat 434-7114.
Of interest to people investigating systems
for spiritual development or psycho
analysis, the Pyramid Zen Society will 
present a talk by Richard Rose, author of 
the "Albigen Papers." Mr. Rose will discuss 
the possibilities of the different means man 
uses to gain greater understanding in his 
personal development such as use of trans
mission, various formulas or rituals, mech
anical disciplines and religions, and tech
niques for Zen and its relative, the 
Gurdjieff-Ouspensky system. This en
counter is scheduled for the Thursday 
evening of January 24 at 7:30 in room 524 
of the Pitt Student Union. Any further 
information can be obtained by calling 
431-2253.
The Activities Board Coffeehouse is still
alive and well every (or practically every) 
Friday evening at 9:00. Free entertainment 
will be offered by both local greats and 
coffeehouse tour artists along with free 
food and drinks. It's almost always in the 
Staff Cafe, alias Kiltie Cafe, but may drag 
everything up to the Wherrett room. A 
great idea is to go to the AB movie then 
stop in at the CH to kill the rest of the 
evening before a rough weekend of studies.
Can reality be found at CMU? Baffled by
the myths of the world or just plain in 
need of help? Find out what Christian Sci
ence has to offer and how it can help you 
with your problems. Come and talk to the 
Christian Science Campus Counselor, Mrs. 
Gabriel le Tyler, Tuesdays, 11:30-1:30, 
Skibo 40-D or call 683-6145. All are in
vited to the meetings of the University 
Christian Science Organization, Monday 
5:00, Skibo 45.
The Tenth Muse will present the secono
coffeehouse of the year on Friday, January 
25, starting time is 9:00 pm. in the Kiltie 
Coffeehouse. Free admission and food.
Free classes will again be offered by B'nai
B'rith Hillel-Jewish University Center. Be
ginning January 13, Intermediate Hebrew 
will be taught every Sunday at 6:30 pm. in 
the 3rd floor Hillel Library. Elementary 
Hebrew will be taught every Thursday at 
7:30 pm. in the Hillel Library, beginning 
January 10. "Conversation Yiddish" taught 
through the English language, will be 
taught by Mr. Morton Rosenbaum, every 
Monday at 7:30 pm. beginning January 14. 
The classes are being held at the Kennilworth Apartments, Apt. 707, 5700 Centre 
Avenue (Corner Negley). The following 
other classes will be offered with the mini
mum of five registrants: Text Courses in 
the Bible and/or Talmud; Theology of the 
Prayer Book; Basic Judaism; Theatre 
Group Being Formed. Call 621-8875 to 
register or for information. Ask for Roni 
Harris.
HEY THERE! Do you know what kind of
game is played at HERNANDO'S HIDE
AWAY? It's not the Dating Game. It's not 
the Match Game. It's the PAJAMA GAME! 
Admissions to Hernando's is IVi CENTS. 
THERE ONCE WAS A MAN named Paul 
Koch who collected the fee and directed 
the GAME played exclusively by the Mel
lon Institute Chorus. How is the GAME 
played? The rules are not printable, but 
you can report to the Conference Room of 
Mellon Institute at 12:30-1:30 pm. on 
Tuesday, January 22, 1974 where an ex
clusive 18 minute tape of the rules will be 
played. So join Paul and Kay Koch and the 
members of the Mellon Institute Chorus 
and release all of your pent up 
STEAM(HEAT) as you learn to play the 
PAJAMA GAME!
There will be a Jewish-Christian Sympo
sium Sunday evening, January 27th, 8:00 
pm. at the University of Pittsburgh in the 
Stephen Foster Memorial Auditorium be
tween Forbes and Bigelow. There is no 
admission charge. The subject will be "The 
Future of Religious Pluralism in America." 
Speakers include Professor Rosemary 
Ruether from Howard School of Religion 
and Yale Divinity School, one of the 
leading theological exponents of renewal 
within the Catholic Church. Also Rabbi 
Marc Tannenbaum from the American Jew
ish Committee, often described as the out
standing authority on Jewish-Christian 
relations.
Israeli and Folk Dancing is held every
Monday, 7:30 pm. in the 3rd floor Hillel 
Lounge, Y-IKC (across from Heinz 
Chapel). It is sponsored by B'nai B'rith 
Hillel-Jewish University Center.
There will be a concert with an inter
national flavor on Saturday, January 26, 
1974, at 8:00 pm. at the UACM building, 
Fifth and Beliefield. Dancing from Thai
land, stories and fables from Malawi and 
the Middle East, music from Pakistan, 
American folk songs and gospel music, and 
mime will be presented. The tax deductible 
donation of two dollars will goto the Oak
land Children's Center, a multi-cultural 
alternative school for young children.
Cafe Tel Aviv is open Monday-Thursday
from 11:30-1 for lunch. Thursday is Deli 
Day-corned beef or pastrami. Third floor, 
Hillel Dining Club, Y-IKC, across from 
Heinz Chapel.
Free Hebrew and Yiddish classes are
offered by B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish 
University Center. Call 621-8875 for 
information.
GIRLS.............ARE YOU LOOKING FOR A SUMMER COUN
SELOR POSITION? Applicants are now being considered for the 
1974 camp season. Must be able to teach one of the following: Arts & 
Crafts, Arts & Crafts Director, Dancing, Theater Director, Piano Ac
companist and singing, Archery, Tennis, Tennis Director, Golf, Tram
poline, Photography, Cheerleading, Riflery (N.R.A.) Scouting and Nature 
Study, A.R.C. Swimming Instructor, Boating, Canoeing and Water Skiing 
Instructor or General Athletics. Secretary and Bookkeeper also needed.
COUNSELOR UNIT LEADERS( must be college graduate ex
perienced in camping. Able to plan schedule for activities, evening 
programs, etc. Supervise large staff. Write Camp Director, 2409 
Shelleydale Drive, Baltimore Md. 21209.
Business manager? of student organizations
receiving funds from the Activities Fee 
should attend a meeting on Thursday, Jan
uary 24 at 4:30 in Skibo 45 to discuss 
procedures for the spring budget hearings, 
deficits, and accounting. If your organiza
tion cannot attend, please contact Student 
Government Finance Committee Chairman 
Willie R. Thompson- at 687-3024 or 
682-8067 by January 23.
Classified Ads
66 Impala. Very good engine, body, tires.
927 N. Highland.
Roommate wanted to share luxurious,
furnished, 2-bedroom apartment. A veri
table palace with running water, gas anc 
electricity included. Call Brad at 687-6382 
evenings or leave info in P.O. box 12 
campus mail if interested.
For Sale: Univox 6 string acoustic guitar
with case and strap. Excellent condition. 
Ten free lessons thrown in. Also: Soft but 
sturdy guitar case with strap. Great for 
hitching. 687-7034 til 2 am.
Working mother desires woman to share
Shadyside house. $100 plus one half 
utilities. Call 6 to 11 pm. 361-4937.
Wedding Photography with a difference.
Misties, Fantasies, Candids and Formals in 
rich, glowing color. Flexible plans specially 
priced for student budgets. Call 523-5660 
after 7 pm. weekdays, and any time 
weekends.
College campus representative needed to
ell brand name stereo components to stu
dents at lowest prices. High commission, 
no investment required. Serious inquiries 
only! FAD Components, Inc., 20 Passaic 
Avenue, Fairfield, New Jersey, 07006, or 
call Jerry Diamond at (201) 227-6814.
Personals
Anna,
Your innocence was fun at first,
So much was there to win,
But now that we're together, love,
I love the way you sin.
Carl
Rita,
The meals were fair, in dawn or twilight 
But food itself was not the highlight:
It was that tea, though foul & scorchin.' 
'Cuz every label had a fortune.
You've changed the brand, 
and now I'm steamin'
When I first saw, 1 stormed out screamin'. 
I've since returned, but somethin's lackin' 
Oh, Rita, bring Salada b.ack in.
Robbie

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, January 22, 1974Page 5
Visiting ProfWins international Film Awards
by Chip Yeager
A C-MU visiting assistant professor of 
mathematics, Dr. Nelson L. Max has 
received two prizes from the Council on 
International Non-theatrical Events (CINE) 
for an educational film he produced. The 
film, Space Filling Curves, won the top 
prize, the Bacranio dors, or golden oxhead award, at the 17th International 
Festival of Scientific-Didactic Film in 
Padua, Italy, and the Orbit Award of the 
11th International Scientific Exhibition 
and Orbit Award Competition, both 
awarded last year.
Space Filling Curves was originally 
intended as a purely educational film. 
Curves is one of four films that Dr. Max 
is producing through a grant from the 
National Science Foundation. The grant 
was intended to finance the production of 
films to graphically teach topology, the 
branch of mathematics that deals with 
changing geometric figures around without 
changing the basic properties of the figures, 
as when one turns a sphere inside-out with
out making a hole in it. In theory, changing 
a sphere like that can be done, but 
computer graphics such as Dr. Maxs make 
it easier to see just how it happens. As it 
happened, the end result looked fascinating 
enough for Dr. Max to enter it in a v TNE 
competition.
CINE chooses the non-feature films it 
thinks best represents the United States, 
and, for a $35.00 fee, enters the films in 
international competition, taking care of 
all the paper work. Dr. Max doubts that he 
would have had the time or inclination to 
enter his film in international competition 
by himself.
Last fall, CIT-MIS freshmen saw this 
film during Orientation. The film consists 
of an unbroken curve that twists itself 
around in filling the entire cathode-ray 
screen. As the film progress, oiese twists 
and corners twist themselves even further, 
while the computer makes it appear that it 
is zooming in on the ever-expanding 
pattern. The result is that the same pattern 
appears on the screen throughout the en
tire 20-minute film, yet that pattern is 
continually growing and sprouting new 
twists, all from a single curve. If this 
sounds like a contradiction, it is one, but
Dr. Nelson L. Max, CINE
one entertaining enough to win the prizes 
it has.
Dr. Max is producing his films with the 
C-MU PDP-10 computer, as well as equip
ment at other universities throughout the 
country. C-MlFs PDP-10 is part of a 
network engineered by the Advanced 
Research Projects Agency (ARPA), spon
sored by the U.S. Air Force. The Air 
Force, Max commented, sponsors all the 
esoteric, advanced computer research. 
Dr. Max himself happened to stumble on 
the system and saw how he could take 
advantage, through his government grant, 
of the combined systems. The ARPA 
network links computers from C-MU, the 
University of Utah, Stanford, and Case 
Western Reserve. This system, Dr. Max 
says, allows programmers to share ideas
Photo by John Rose
film winner
and programs, as well as making available 
equipment not available here at C-MU for 
his work.
Dr. Max has completed two other films 
on his NSF grant, both dealing with regular 
curves in a plane. The format is similar to 
Curves: making use of a single line to 
prove the impossibility of turning a circle 
inside-out without breaking the line or 
making comers in the figure.- These films 
show, however, that it is possible to turn a 
sphere inside-out in three-dimensional 
space, the trick being to pass the surface 
thorugh itself. As stated earlier, this is all 
pure theory, but theory which lends itself 
to computer graphics.
Dr. Max himself received his B.A. in 
mathematics from Johns Hopkins in 1963. 
He became interested in topology, and, in 
1967, got his Ph.D. from Harvard in top
ology. He had been working on his films 
since 1969. After completion of his NSF 
films, expected this August, he will turn to 
doing educational films projected on 
planetarium domes, a project that involves 
using a fisheye projection lens to cast the 
image from a flat piece of film onto a 
curved screen. Dr. Max plans to make a 
film showing what he calls a cosmic 
zoom, that is, programming a computer 
to simulate a picture of deep space, outside 
of the galaxies. The computer would then 
zoom in on the galaxies and continue to 
move in on our world, ending up at the 
atomic level. These images, transferred to 
film, would provide a new sort of exhibit 
for plantariums. At present, this film is 
still in the talking stage, but according to 
Dr. Max, several people have expressed an 
interest in it.
Jewish
Symposium
Planned
A Jewish-Christian Symposium, The 
Future of Religious Pluarlism in America, 
will take place at 8:00 p.m. January 27, 
1974 at the Stephen Foster Memorial 
Auditorium (Forbes and Bigelow) of the 
University of Pittsburgh. This will be one 
of the first such interreligious meetings on 
a national level since the Yom Kippur War. 
The principal speakers will be Professor 
Rosemary Ruether of the Howard School 
of Religion and Yale Divinity School, and 
Rabbi Marc Tanenbaum, National Director 
of Interreligious Affairs for the American 
Jewish Committee. The public is invited 
and there will be no charge for admission.
The program coordinator is Dr. Bernard 
R. Goldstein of the University of Pitts
burgh, and the Symposium is being co
sponsored by the Jewish Studies Program 
at the University of Pittsburgh, the 
American Jewish Committee, and the 
Graduate Department of Theology of 
Duquesne University.
A nomber of the distinguished scholars 
will be in town for this meeting including 
Rabbi Richard Israel of the Bnai Brith 
Hillel Foundations of Greater Boston, and 
Reverend John T. Pawlikowski of the 
Catholic Theological Union in Chicago. 
They will confer in an academic workshop 
vith a number of scholars including Jews, 
Catholics, and Protestants from the fac
ulties of the University of Pittsburgh, 
Duquesne University, Carnegie-Mellon 
University, Chatham College, and Pitts
burgh Theological Seminary on the theme, 
Social Justice, Interreligious Cooperation, 
and Jewish-Christian Dialogue.
Professor Richard L. Schoenwald, 
Department of History and Philosophy, 
Carnegie-Mellon University, will be one of 
the participants.
ERRATUM
In last weeks issue an article on page 7 
erroneously listed Professor Arnold Bank 
as a member of the SCALE committee. 
The TARTAN regrets this mistake.
~MU in search of New Head for Computation CenterPhoto by Rose
Tired of misinformation about drugs? Peer 
Help can give you straight answers. 150-A 
Baker Hall, 687-7414.
COPY CAT
XEROX COPY CENTER 
HOTEL WEBSTER HALL 
4415 FIFTH AVE. 
683-8040
Our Low Copy Prices Are:
1 thru 15 6</copy \ OF 
16 thru 50 4<..copy SAME 
51 and up 3C/copy t ORIGINAL
EXPERT TYPING
All don* on IBM Select r(cs
Reports, term papers, thesis, 
dissertations.
NOW ... OFFSET PRINTING...
... LOW PRICES ...

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6THE TARTAN-Tuesday, January 22, 1974
CMUAwardedGranfcasks stud en tad vice'
by Sandy Como
Students and faculty of C-MU will have 
the say as to how a $300,000 grant 
awarded by the Carnegie Corporation to 
the university is to be utilized. The grant is 
part of an experiment in educational 
innovation.
The grant assumes that wisdom and 
imagination about education are not 
specifically located in the offices of 
administrators or deans, but are widely 
distributed among the members of a uni
versitys faculty and student body, said 
President Richard Cyert. It aims, he said, at 
bringing that knowledge and imagination 
to bear on educational practices at C-MU 
by encouraging the initiative and activity 
of those who have it. The grant is in the 
amount of $100,000 per year for 3 years.
The Carnegie Corporation has contrib
uted over $23,000,000 to the University 
since 1914. The money has been used for 
C-MUs endowment fund, educational and 
developmental programs, fellowships and 
awards, research, and C-MUs innovative 
Doctor of Arts program.
In conjunction with the grant the 
university will contribute $50,000 in each 
of the last two years, as well as $100,000 
or more to continue to carry one after the 
grant expires in 1975-76.
The grant is expected to advance farreaching developments in the quality and 
productivity of academic programs. C-MU 
expects to disperse the results of its activi
ties to other colleges and universities that 
have been under financial pressure in past 
years in order that they too might benefit 
from any progress made.
Although C-MU improved upon its own 
financial situation in 1972-73, showing a 
small surplus for the first time in 5 years, 
and balanced its current and 1974-75 
budgets, President Cyei l warns that private
universities must make efficient use of 
their resources in order to survive. He 
contends that private universities must 
learn how to offer quality education at a 
reasonably low cost, with the only long 
term answer being increased productivity 
in the form of faculty members teaching 
more students while increasing the caliber 
of the education.
In the guidelines for proposals for grants 
to improve the quality and productivity of 
academic programs at CMU submitted by 
President Cyert on January 1, it is stated 
that, A central problem for C-MU and 
other private universities is to provide a 
quality education that is commensurate 
with the fees students pay, and to provide 
that education within the limits of 
resources that fees and other income 
produce. All of us know there is much 
room for innovation and improvement in 
educational practices. It cannot be that a 
teaching process several hundred years old 
is beyond improvement and amendment. It 
must be that attention to the learning 
activities of students and the learning 
environment of the university campus can 
bring about enrichment and enhancement 
of student learning outside as well as inside 
the classroom.'
" Particularly, / am interested 
in receiving proposals from 
students. 
Cyert feels this is the ultimate goal of 
his three-man committee, set up to hear 
proposals on how to spend the grant, Our 
ultimate aim is to get ideas to improve 
education, plus to decrease the cost of 
instruction. Dean Schatz, provost and 
vice-president for academic affairs is in 
agreement with President Cyert: Part of 
the reason for the grant is for us to con
sider methods of education to accomplishLee Cass Selects Fellowship Winners
Lee Cass, a two time Fulbright award 
winner has been chosen to serve on a 
blue-ribbon panel to choose winners for 
1974-75 foreign study grants. This came 
less than a year after his own voice student 
Lynne Beckstrom won a Fulbright Fellow
ship.
With his fellow panelists, Cass reviewed 
the dossiers of 95 Fulbright Fellowship 
applicants in voice and from that pre
liminary testing, he continued to audition 
25. After auditions, nine candidates were 
recently recommended to the Institute oi 
International Education in New York City.
The institute makes recommendations 
to the Board of Foreign scholarships foi 
graduate study under the Fulbright Hays
Program.
Lynne Beckstrom, a 1971 and 1973 
graduate of the C-MU music department, 
was a Fulbright fellow and is now at the 
Guildhall School of Music and Drama in 
London. At Walt Harpers Attic, she 
starred in Jacques Brel is Alive and Well 
and living in Paris.
Following his attainment of the B.S. 
and M.S. degrees in voice from the Julliard 
School, Cass won two Fulbright awards. 
Cass is a bass-baritone and has appeared 
with major orchestras and opera companies 
as a soloist. He also appeared on Broadway 
in 'The Most Happy Fellow and Greenjwillow. Since 1966, he has served on the 
.Carnegie-Mellon faculty
Hope for Side Cell Patients
the following: to produce a better or at 
least as good quality of education as we are 
now. This is a matter on all of our minds. 
We hope to implement experiments aimed 
at methods of producing good education at 
a better cost-benefit ratio.
The C-MU committee countering the 
problem is composed of President Cyert, 
Dr. Herbert A. Simon, and Professor Allen 
Newell. They will serve to consider and 
reject proposals from students, faculty, or 
teams of both, determine fund amounts foi 
allocation, and stimulate proposals through 
written material, workshops, seminars, and 
courses.
Cyert commented, Particularly I am 
interested in receiving proposals from 
students. All of us feel strongly that there 
are a number of potentially important 
ideas held by students. We are extremely 
eager to receive them.
Proposals should be submitted in 
writing to the presidents office, and 
should contain an innovative idea which 
will lead to improved quality or product
ivity in the educational system at C-MU. 
Proposal applicants should describe in 
detail how they plan to develop the 
innovative idea, test its effectiveness, and 
put it into effect. The action plan should 
specify the number and identity of the 
persons carrying it out, the tasks they 
perform, and the amount of time they will 
spend performing the tasks. The proposal 
should enumerate the additional costs for 
maintaining the innovation as a normal 
university function. The effects of 
implementing the idea on student, faculty, 
and staff motivation should be considered. 
Proposals which require modification of 
C-MU rules will also be considreed.
So far, no funding has been allocated by 
the committee in favor of proposals, 
however, two proposals have been sub
mitted. One is sponsored by Professor
David E. Wojick in the area of history and 
philosophy, and me otner is sponsored by 
GSIA and is concerned with writing. Cyert 
said he hopes to meet with his committee 
some time next week to act on the pro- *
posais.
Areas previously cited by the committee 
in which further development will be 
sought are: (1) professionally oriented 
liberal arts courses and (2) self-paced 
engineering courses which utilize the 
computer in new ways. The first aim is 
directed toward innovative programs 
within the College of Humanities and **
Social Sciences. Projects which incorporate 
a management aspect in this area might 
feed on the private and public management 
curricula of C-MUs graduate schools. The 
second area pursues a new design for 
undergraduate engineering courses at C-MU 
through the changing of career require
ments and the development of new 
techniques in the psychology and tech- % 
nology of learning. Highlights of the new 
courses might include the use of inter
disciplinary teams from computer science, 
education, industrial administration, and 
psychology, as well as engineering and 
science, in an effort to educate both 
faculty and students about teaching and 
learning procedure.
Cyert commented on the significance of 
the grant: This project is of vital import
ance for the University. The good ideas and 
their implementation on which its success 
hinges must come from the whole univer
sity community. If one or more projects 
are successful, the project will make a 
substantial contribution to the effective 
management of educational innovation in 
other universities as well as ours. We. can ^ 
help to demonstrate that privately financed 
education is viable, and we can contribute 
to making important improvements in 
higher education in our society.
Over two million Americans have been 
born with sickle cell disease, an affliction 
which has no cure, is difficult to detect, is 
treated with limited success and has tragic 
sociological and psychological effects. De
spite all these strikes against them, scien
tists are learning how to cope with tne
long-neglccted illness. Genetic counseling, 
mass screening and new treatments using 
urea and cynate offer some hope until the 
day when microgenetic engineering- chemincally changing the makeup of genes- will 
eliminate this ana all genetic diseases.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, January 22, 1974-Page 7
What Simon SaidPart III
TARTAN: One of the things thats not 
generally known on this campus is that 
.<essentially GSIA has authority over the 
Psychology department, and that in effect 
the College of Humanities and Social 
Sciences is really made up of History, 
English and Modem Languages, which are 
what Dean Steinberg has control over. Of 
the other three departments in the college 
Psychology and Economics are directly 
related to GSIA and the Social Science is 
directly related to SUP A. I was always 
under, the impression that the College oj 
Humanities and Social Sciences was more 
of an entity. It seems to me that there are a 
lot of people walking around thinking that 
this is an organizational entity when in fact 
it really isn't, its sort of a convention for 
the purpose of granting a degree.
Simon: Well, I guess I dont think thats 
quite right. First, I think youre premising 
your conclusion on a view of organization 
which not all students of organization 
share. You see an organization chart here, 
and heres a guy and then theres some 
people there, and theres a pyramid. Real 
organizations are never that simple.
Its true that control over the budget of 
psychology reports up through the dean of 
GSIA. The dean of GSIA was sort of a 
triple monarch, you might say, in the 
.manner of the old Austria-Hungarian 
empire-maybe thats a bad metaphor, but 
in the sense that he wore two hats. One 
was the hat of dean of GSIA and the other 
hat was a hat of a floating dean for social 
science-like things, which meant that the 
budget for psychology reported to him and 
the budget for statistics also went up 
through him. But neither statistics or 
psychology were a part of GSIA--that is, 
the senior faculty of GSIA didnt sit in on 
the personnel decisions in psychology, and 
so on.
But when you ask how curricular 
decisions and things of this sort are made 
in the College of Humanities and Social 
Science--of course, a lot of them are made 
in the departments, and a lot of them are 
made in the college council or by 
committees of the college council, and all 
of these departments participate in those in 
exactly the same way as the other depart
ments. Those decisions arent made by 
deans. Insofar as theres a dean involved in 
those decisions, its the dean of H&SS.
You must not think of an organization 
as having some pure unity of command in
this respect. The undergraduate curricular 
decisions are decisions that go through the 
dean of H&SS. The budget decisions for 
psychology and for economics go through 
the dean of GSIA.
TARTAN: It seems a lot more fragmented 
than the other colleges.
Simon: In that particular respect, yes. In the respect 
that the departments aie maybe more 
heterogeneous, that may also be true, 
although I think you will find a great deal 
more interaction between departments in 
H&SS, than you will in Fine Arts, which 
does not have that formal organizational 
problem. The amount of interaction you 
find across fields can be modified a little 
bit by formal organization, but in a much 
larger measure its a reflection of the 
structure of those fields in the society.
For example, when we had a single 
college of engineering and science there 
always was a kind of a boundary between 
the engineering departments and the 
science departments. And the 
reorganization recognized that boundary-I 
might even feel it over-recognized it. But it 
neither created nor destroyed the 
boundary. The boundary is a reflection of 
how the world was.
For example, theie's more communi
cation between social science departments 
than there is between lets say psychology 
and English. But I dont think that has 
much to do with formal organization, I 
think that has to do with what people find 
they have in common. If you go over to 
the faculty club, you find the deplorable 
fact that the real boundaries in this campus 
are department boundaries, because at 
luncheon people sit at tables by depart
ments. Since Im sort of a wandering soul 
by nature anyway, I sit down sometimes 
with the mathematicians, sometimes with 
this or that, but Im almost always alone 
with a group of people. The real raisons in 
the cake are departments, and thats 
because the whole world outside of 
Carnegie-Mellon is organized in disciplines 
that way.
Now, I dont want to say that doesnt 
create problems, because it does create 
problems. Im not sure theyre more severe 
in H&SS than they are elsewhere, for 
reasons I mention, and one of the things 
thats been done in the past year is to take 
cognizance of that particular problem. 
Thats one of the reasons we have a provost, 
now for SUPA and H&SS and GSIA,
LADY LUCK AT PI LAM
GAMING - REFRESHMENTS
Pi Lambda Phi Saturday 7:30-11:00 P.M.
This Advertisement A Multimedia Production of 
Northern History Company
because thats the only level in this 
organization in which you can have some
body who really will worry about putting 
together some of the social sciences here, 
and will worry about the contributions of 
GSIA and SUPA to the undergraduate pro
gram.
TARTAN:It seems that hes more of a 
lean in the standard sense of being the 
administrator over all the graduate and 
undergraduate programs of a college.
Simon: Well, I guess hes no more or no 
.less a dean than ... is Ed Schatz a dean? 
TARTAN: Hes got people under him, 
though, who seem to have the same ad
ministrative powers over all the under
graduate and graduate programs of a 
college that Weber has. It seems like a very 
peculiar administrative set-up. Dean 
Steinberg has very little....
Simon: And Im sure that creates some 
problems for him in terms of budget 
allocations. But organizations are set up to 
deal with a whole range of problems, and 
neatness is not the way you judge them 
The way you judge them is whether they 
handle their problems.
TARTAN: Do you forsee any time in the 
future when the organization around here 
will become more of a standard type thing, 
or do you think this is always going to 
remain___
Simon: I dont much believe in standard 
type organizations. In fact, I once wrote an 
essay some years ago based on our GSIA 
experience about the problem of 
organizing there. The argument there was 
that any business school, or professional 
school, that doesnt deliberately organize 
to produce a stress between the problem 
oriented people and the science oriented 
people is probably going to seed in one of 
the two ways such organizations can go to 
seed. One the one hand you have to have 
people who are end-use oriented, pro
fession oriented. On the other hand you 
have to have people who are oriented 
toward the sources of new basic know
ledge. The problem is how do you keep 
them together. And the big organizational 
problems of professional education is that 
theyre always falling over one way or the 
other. Solving that problem by keeping 
them in relations and intention with each 
other does not lead to simple or neat 
organizations. Thats one reason why I 
regret the split of MIS from CIT ..
Peace and quiet is not the goal of
Wing of Bat Eye of Newt 
Toe of Frog
One out of every five persons suffers 
rom back pain and one of every 100 of 
these sufferers needs surgery to correct the 
problem, usually a slipped disc. Now, says 
the December Science Digest, there is an 
experimental chemotherapy program that 
replaces the need for surgery and does a 
more effective job of correcting the back 
problem. After receiving injections of a 
chemical extract from the papaya plant, 
which dissolve the slipped disc without 
harming any other tissue, back pain 
sufferers recover in a matter of days and 
usually have permanent relief.
organizations, its something you 
occasionally get. Organizations are to get 
jobs done. And often to get jobs done you 
have to achieve relations between people*of 
very different kinds, and that often pro
duces lots of stress in the organization, lots 
of pulling and tugging. The research-' 
teaching issue is of that kind. You need 
both in the organization. You need to try 
to keep them together, not separate them. 
And that takes lots of managing, lots of 
headaches. Not everybody is happy all the 
time. In the Protestant Ethic, at least, 
happiness is not the sole goal. Maybe it 
isnt even a goal at all.
TARTAN: Is that what this university is 
run on, the Protestant Ethic?
Simon: Well, yeah, in the sense that-I 
assume that you interpret that phrase in its 
proper sociological setting-it was not a 
religious statement. Yeah, it sure is. We 
think that Carnegie-Mellon is an organiza
tion which has made and can make 
important contributions to education and 
to knowledge. Were devoting large 
resources to that-I dont know whether
thirty million bucks sounds like a lot to 
you, but it still sounds like a lot to me. 
Were devoting large resources of that every 
/ear and I think its our responsibility to 
get things done with those resources. And I 
guess I think you do too, or you wouldnt 
be worried about the quality of 
undergraduate education. So if youre 
asking, Is this all fun and games or is it for 
real?--its for real. Ive spent my life at 
this. I dont spend my life at fun and 
games. I like to make reality kind of fun at 
times, but....
GIVE TO:
CARE'S FOOD CRUSADE 
400 5th AVE.
PGH., PA. 15219 i

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8THE TARTAN-Tuesday, January 22, 1974
Erratum
A story in last weeks TARTAN dealing 
with the Student Activities Fee was inad
vertantly garbled in layout, causing it to 
misrepresent statements by Ira Picker and 
Phil Koltun.
A paragraph referring to Picker should 
have stated:
Ticker admitted that graduates showed 
less interest than undergraduates did in 
concerts, the most high-budgeted and risky 
AB productions. But he said graduate stu
dents are welcome to join in any AB pro
jects. Theyd certainly add a more enlight
ened air than freshmen who come on look
ing to see things like the Who in concert. 
A paragraph referring to Kotlun should 
have stated:
Kotlun opposed the amendment to ex
tend the motion to all students, but was 
defeated. He said, however, that he agrees 
philisophically with the amendment and 
opposed it as a matter of political 
efficacy.. . I thought we had a better 
chance of getting the thing through when it 
was dealing just with graduate students. 
The article should also have stated that 
students will be able to elect to pay only 
25 percent of the fee, not 25 cents.
The TARTAN regrets these errors.
School getting to you? Want to talk? Try a 
little Peer Help. 150-A Baker Hall, 
687-7414.
CMU Picketed
continued from page 1
Heinlein says that the C-MU Personnel 
Services Department advised him that the 
arrangement was legal.
We were offering to help Pitt under 
difficult times, says Dr. Rutledge, who 
explains that C-MU did not learn until 
Friday morning the implications of the 
agreement.
Under the law, C-MU became an ally of 
Pitt by agreeing to receive deliveries. Thus 
the unions blockade, known technically as 
a secondary boycott, became a legal tactic.
C-MU maintenance and food service 
employees also belong to SEIU Local 29. 
The unions contract with C-MU expires in 
November.Asked if C-MlFs offer to assist Pitt 
might be viewed as a hostile act by the 
union, Dr. Rutledge replied, We werent 
trying to offend anybody, but we were 
concerned that students at Pitt not have 
their education unduly disrupted.
Pitt had offered to raise the current 
average wage for Local 29 from $3.34 tc 
$3.69 per hour, with 30 cent and 25 cent 
increases in the following two years. The 
offer was later withdrawn.
Asked if a union settlement with Pitt 
will force C-MU to grant comparable terms, 
Dr. Rutledge replied, It will depend on 
what the demands are at the time, and on 
the current pay scale for all university 
employees. It is the universitys policy to 
obtain and then keep a fair and comparable 
scale for all university employees.'
Math Dept. Changes 
Elective Requirements
continued from page 1
sional training. Moore feels that the new 
system, by encouraging more specializa
tion, will make CMU graduates more competetive in the job market. It will also raise 
the comparative worth of a somewhat low 
QPA, since the student is, of necessity, 
taking more difficult courses.
Moore also explained that this was not a 
major change, and that the basic purpose 
of the redefinition of the technical elective 
was to help improve the quality of 
education for math majors.
Student reaction does not necessarily 
reflect this view: This requirement will 
make it much harder for me to become 
familiar with a wide variety of technical 
subjects.
Dr. Moore and Dr. Richard MacCamy, 
Associate Chairman of the Department,
RESEARCH
Thousands of Topics 
$2.75 per page 
Send for your up-to-date, 160-page, mail order catalog. Enclose $1.00 to cover postage (delivery time is 
1 to 2 days).
RESEARCH ASSISTANCE, INC. 
11941 WILSHIRE BLVD., SUITE #2 LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90025 (213) 477-8474 or 477-5493
Our research material is sold for research assistance only.
were the people most aware that the old 
definition of technical elective was be
coming artificial and ancient, and they 
worked most for the change.
After being approved by the Math De
partment, it was reviewed and approved by 
the MIS College Council.
According to Robert Kail, 
the motion was very well received at 
the council meeting, the only objection 
being the possibility that someone could go 
through the mathematics department re
quirements taking only math courses. This 
objection was dismissed by noting that 
there are still 60 units of H&SS courses 
required for majors.
This change could mean that more math 
majors will be inclined to obtain B.S. 
degrees, a situation which Dr. Moore 
regards as desirable.
Sonic4r KLH^ W BACK TO SCHOOL SALE Fisher
UBOSE" PARTIAL LISTING -- HUNDREDS MORE HPARTIAL LISTING -- HUNDREDS MORES \ i=
ACCESSORIES
Visit our complete accessory department 
for blank tapes, patch cords, plugs, 
jacks, tape head cleaners, splicing 
tape, record cleaning equipment, speaker 
wire, microphones and almost any other 
accessories you need.
A WORD ABOUT AUDIO ATTIC
Your needs are the single, most im
portant objective at Audio Attic. If you 
need to know how to connect your equip
ment for the best possible combination 
or if you just need advice, Audio Attic 
will be happy to act as your personal 
audio consultant. If you need someone 
to come to your home. Audio Attic will 
accommodate you. If you need someone 
to install your equipment, Audio Attic 
will do it for you. If you need cables, 
wires and accessories for your custom 
installation, Audio Attic will do it for 
you. When you leave Audio Attic, you 
will have the confidence that comes from 
visiting someone who talks your language.
SYSTEM SPECIAL 
KLH 51 70 WATTS (IHF) 
RECEIVER $259.95
GARRARD SL55B TURNTABLE 
With base, dust cover 
& cartridge $101.80
2 PIONEER PROJECT 60 
SPEAKER SYSTEM $159.90
LIST PRICE $521.65
ALL FOR $388
HEADPHONE 
SPECIAL 
COLUMBIA HP-7 DYNAMIC STEREO 
HEADPHONE.
37
90 DAY EXCHANGE PRIVILEGE
Any other component in your system 
may be exchanged within 90 days of 
purchase for an equivalently or higher 
priced unit. You only pay the difference, 
if any, and return the item in its original 
carton in like-new condition with your 
receipt of purchase.
MEMOREX
CASSETTE
SPECIAL
C-90's 
Reg. $4. 05
"LIMIT 5"
MEMOREX C-90 
 _ 1*1
134
30 DAY PRICE GUARANTEE
If you should find identical merchandise 
that you can purchase at a lower price 
than we sold it to you, Audio Attic will 
refund the difference to you in cash 
within 30 days from date of purchase.
All merchandise must be available from 
another established local area merchant, 
be the same make and model, and be new 
not a floor sample. If anything you purchased 
is to be found at a lower price in this area, 
we will refund the difference plus 10%.
TAPE DECKS
PANASONIC 
CASSETTE 
DECK RS-262 $( 
Reg. $125 
ICP 880 8-TRACK 
RECORD DECK 
Reg. $129.95 $
99
77
AKAI 1721 L 
OPEN-REEL DECK 
Reg.$299.95199
ONE YEAR SPEAKER EXCHANGE
If for any reason within one year after 
purchase of a component system from 
Audio Attic, you would rather have a 
different speaker system, you will 
receive FULL CREDIT of your purchase 
price toward the price of any equivalently 
or higher priced speaker.
UPSTAIRS
3713 FORBES AVE. .OAKLAND SECOND FLOOR ACROSS FROM McDONALDS 681-4560 
STORE HOURS 11 AM-6 PM TUES., WED., SAT. & 11 AM-9PM MON., THURS. , FRI.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, January 22, 1974Page 9
Foot Patrols: 
The Good Old Days
beats. They consist of one from Doherty 
by Debbie Siegel through Baker to Scaife. The second goes
from the Library to the Hill Dorms inReversing a trend that began several eluding the Gym and Margaret Morrison, 
years ago, Security will now patrol the The third consists of everything from the 
campus on foot, instead of by car. other side of Forbes including Morewood
The new philosophy, motivated by Ron Gardens and Warner Hall. Peak hours for 
Taylor, Head of Security, and Jim Van security activity are on weekends, partRiper, Administrative Sergeant, is a matter icularly from late evening till two a.m. 
of timing. Since 1970, Taylor explained, There is an average of 3 people on duty 
Security has become increasingly mobile, during the day and at least 4 guards during 
One officer drove a vehicle in 1970 and the the 3-12 shift.
rest of the officers were walking. This was n addition to sixteen security guards,
increased to 3 vehicles and the ambulance, there are 25 student aides. They work on 
Taylor added, With the energy crisis, this an arrangement with workstudy. They 
seems like an opportune time to try some- carry flashlights and radios. Van Riper 
thing else. There has been a tremendous explained, They do not participate in anycutback in the gas expense. Basically, I said thing but lookouts. At night, the aides are 
what the hell? Why not be flexible and try escorts for women on campus and do 
the new situation?  general patrolling.
Van Riper, whos' been at C-MU for Walking patrols can have their draweleven years, recalled that in 1968 many backs. Taylor said that in one situation 
custodians were in the buildings during the Med I, the ambulance, stopped in flight on' 
evenings and the officers would walk way to a situation. The battery was down, 
throughout the campus. Because of cut- Ideally, Med I should be started up every 
backs in the custodial staff, there is more four hours to insure the battery. Starting it 
need for officers to patrol the buildings, once a shift will keep it going.
Hourly, the security officers call the desk Taylor expounded on some views of
clerk and their report is verified. crjme at C-MU. The amount of crime is
. . . we are not that complicated and not large enough or varied enough to give 
can use a relatively simple security system. an analyst the changes which make definite 
People had a sense of security from seeing statements. Most police statements are 
marked cars; patrolling on foot seems un- cauSe and effect. I cant get too excited 
sophisticated, reported Taylor. about fear. Most crime waves are functions
Asked if officers had given him feed- of the news media. Quoting an article 
back on the change Taylor replied, It from one of the Pittsburgh newspapers: 
hasnt gotten to me if it was negative. The The average policeman statistically in his 
men are pretty accepting. As an officer, I career will come upon a major felony once 
guess Id prefer, to be in a warm vehicle. [n fourteen years. Taylor figures this 
Men still drive vehicles more than I d statistic should say something to a manager 
hoped they would.
One source revealed that some of the With the new foot patrol, a revision of
security officers have been unhappy and the good old days, Security will be indisare looking for new jobs. creet enough to deal with some lesser
At the present time there are three crimes.
Photo by Frank Stein
Security's Ron Taylor reinstitutes patrolling on foot.
SUMMER JOBSRESEARCH
Guys & Gals needed for summer 
employment at National Parks, 
Private Camps, Dude Ranches and 
Resorts throughout the nation. 
Over 50,000 students aided each 
year. For FREE information on 
student assistance program send 
self-addressed STAMPED enve
lope to Opportunity Research, 
Dept. SJO, 55 Flathead Drive, 
Kalispell, MT 59901.
....YOU MUST APPLY EARLY....
THIS STUONT ASSISTANCE PROGRAM HAS BEEN
REVIEWED BY THE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION
$2 PER PAGE FREE CATALOG
Our up-to-date mail order catalog list 
ing thousands of topics is available 
absolutely free-well- even pay the 
postage! Delivery taies 1 to 2 days 
Write
NAT L RESEARCH BANK
420 No Palm Dr , Bey Hills. Cal 90218 TELEPHONE (213) 271 5439 
Material is sold for research purposes only
THINK
If you're good enough, 
you can be a Navy Nuclear 
Officer
Aboard every Navy nuclear-powered 
ship, there are officers from colleges 
just like this one. The point is that to be 
considered for this extraordinary program, 
you don't have to go to the Naval Academy 
... or join the NROTC. What the Navy needs 
now are some very special college students/ 
graduates who aren't afraid to find out 
how good they really are. Who will 
consider our extensive and demanding 
training program (designed by the Atomic 
Energy Commission), the most exciting 
challenge of their lives. A challenge that 
offers an ambitious college student/ 
graduate an exciting future as a Naval 
Officer, with his first assignment being a 
nuclear-powered surface ship or a 
submarine.
Talk it over with your local recruiter.
Call him at 644-5897, or call 800-841-8000 
toll free anytime. Or send in the attached 
coupon.
Be a success in The New Navy
SEND TO:
Lt. Ed Johnson 
Navy Recruiting District 
1000 Liberty Avenue 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15222
Gentlemen:
I am interested. Please forward more information on 
Nuclear Propulsion Officer requirements.
Name _ 
Address 
City __
Age
StateZip
Current College Year.

---------------------------------------------------

3age 10-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, January 22, 1974
Filmmakers Festival Lectures Use Forum Format
>y Stan Edelstein
Have you ever wanted to make a film, 
mly to find yourself unable to do so 
>ecause you lack technical knowledge or 
unds? Or, if youve done some filmmaking 
efore, do you want the chance to do some 
nore?
No matter what your answer to either 
>f the above questions, keep on reading, 
or if the answer is yes, you can find out 
Anu to obtain funds and equipment for 
naking a film, and if the answer is no, you 
nay change your mind before youre 
hrough.
For the last four years the University 
las held the C-MU Film Festival--an annual 
creening of experimental films made by 
T-MU students. The Festival came into 
xistence for three reasons: to encourage 
ilm-making by C-MU students, to provide 
llmmakers with a showcase for their work, 
ind to give C-MU students an entertaining 
;vening of experimental cinema. Since the 
Irst festival four years ago, the festival has
come to be an annual event, playing to 
packed houses in Porter Hall 100.
This years film festival will be held on 
April 12 and 13. Right now theres one 
thing missing-films. You have a chance to 
change that
Any C-MU student who would like to 
make a film for this years festival should 
attend a meeting this Thursday, January 
24, at 7:00 p.m. in Room 39 Skibo. At the 
meeting youll find out how you can get 
money to make your film, and how you 
can borrow film-making equipment from 
the C-MU Film Workshop. There will also 
be some experienced C-MU film-makers at 
the meeting to talk with beginners who 
have questions about the art of making 
movies.
If you cannot attend the meeting, leave 
your name and phone number at the Skibo 
information desk by noon on Friday, 
January 25.
So there you have ita chance to make 
your own film and have it shown to 
entire campus. Never made a movie befo 
This is your chance.
ie
e?
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner and Smith 
will never be like this.
SOPHOMORESJUNIORSSENIORS. . . The Navy has 
openings in aviation, medicine, law and dozens of other 
fields with starting salaries to $12,900.
For details see: LT. JOHNSON in the BAKER HALL lobby January 
23rd, 24th, and 25th or call 800-841-8000 toll free anytime.
If you're going to be something, why not be something special?
*
CHALLENGING POSITIONS
PA .aAufacturPAg, Research & Develop
meAt, aAd Sales are avaPlable wPth F.C 
CORPORATION.
JANUARY 31,1974 
Our Recruiter will be on campus 
to interview Seniors and Graduates in
CHE.ICAL ENGINEERING 
.ECHANICAL ENGINEERING 
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
-FMC
FMC CORPORATION
Putting Ideas to Work in 
Machinery * Chemicals * Defense * Fibers & Films
An Equal Opportunity Employer
- ,:j^SS M
a  ' f
Photo by Ellen Eddy
Rob Kleinman, AB
continued from page 1
Farrell plans to speak on mans trans
forming role in western society in relation 
to the changing role of woman.
Euthanasia will be the topic of April 
ninths lecture entitled Death by Choice 
or Death by Chance. Daniel McGuire, pro
fessor of theology at Marquette University 
will be the speaker. He will examine both 
aspects of the subject as he did in his 
recently published book, Death by Choice 
or Death by Chance. The final lecture, held 
on April 23, will be concerned with witch
craft and the occult, and will be attended
SLIE DRESBOLD
Lecture Chairman
by practicing witches and warlocks in the 
Pittsburgh area.
Other future AB sponsored events in
clude a lecture on February 20 at Carnegie 
Music Hall by Marjoe, the former evan
gelist. On February 19 the movie Marjoe 
will be shown at Doherty Hall 2210. 
Admission is free to all CMU students.
Also, March 7, AB, with the coopera
tion of C-MAP (Carnegie-Mellon Action 
Program), and the drama department, will 
present the Alvin Ailey dance company. 
Admission is again free of charge.Ia3aaf3:1LESLIOLD
SAVE $30... REG. $119.50 
ELECTRONIC CALCULATORS 
with Automatic SQUARE ROOT
Choose from Texas Instruments, Summit, 
Cirvus (make components for H-P), Melcor
 Reciprocal  Percentage
 Automatic Constant
 Raise-to-Power
 Floating Decimal8950
Operates on AC and DC 
Rechargeable Battery 
FULLY GUARANTEED
^Jllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiigiiiiiiiiniiiiiiy
I FREE .. .$5.00 DISCOUNT |
with this ad on these Calculators
illilillliiliiilllllllliiiiilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiillilllllllllllllllllilllllillii
Tri-State's Top Specialist in Typewriters, Adders,
Calculators
TRADE-INS ACCEPTED .. .BUDGET
MASTER CHARGE and BANKAMERICARD
LESLIE DRESBOLD HtarnJuay2
DOWNTOWN MONROEVILLE SOUTH HILLS
Fort Pitt Typewriter 
613 Liberty Ave. 
Dial 281-8320 
Monday 9 to 8
4003 Wm. Penn Hwy. 
Park-Shop 22 nr. GB 
Dial 372-8138 
Daily 11-8 Sat. 10 to 5
So. Hills Village 
Dial 563 0330 
Dial 833-3299 
Daily 10 to 9:30
SHARPSBURG
925 Main St.
Free Parking 
Dial 781-1308 
Daily 9 to 5:30

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, January 22, 1974Page 11
Comp. Center Seeks Head Nord
by Chip Yeager
The C-MU administration now faces the 
problem of finding a new permanent head 
for the Computation Center. A search 
committee has been convened to advise 
President Cyert on appointing the new 
director.
President Cyert announced a shift in the 
C-MU organization last fall, effective 
almost immediately, involving tfie 
Computation Center. Ronald Rutledge was 
relieved of his duties as head of the Com
putation Center, as Chief Officer of 
Operations, was taking on more 
responsibility than he could handle 
according to Cyerts memo.
Since last October, Associate Director 
A1 Vareha has taken over Rutledges duties 
there as Acting Director. Rutledge has 
retained his other major post as Chief of 
Operations.
The recently begun renovation of the 
Fine Arts building would add greatly to the 
burden, so Cyert, at Rutledges request, 
handed responsibility for the Center over 
to Richard Van Horn, Director of Budget 
and Planning. With Acting Director Vareha 
in the Computation Center chair, Rutledge 
could be freed from pressing duties there 
for work in Operations. In effect, the 
Center now reports to Van Horn rather 
than Rutledge.
On the search committee are: Professor 
Steven Fenves from Civil Engineering, 
Mary Shaw from the Center, Professor 
Edward Prescott from GSIA, 
undergraduate representative Marc Kellner, 
Professor Michael Levine of Physics, and 
Professor Charles Eastman, representing 
the Comp Center, SUPA, and architecture.
The committee met last Thursday and 
I has, according to Kellner, narrowed the 
original list of some 70 applicants for the 
directors job down to ten. This process 
should take about one or two month more 
until the committee is ready to make a 
final recommendation to the Computation
Center Management Board. This board, 
chaired by Van Horn, has Provosts Edward 
Schatz and Arnold Weber, Rutledge, and 
Professor Fenves as members. Working 
with President Cyert, they will decide on 
the next head of the center.
Some graduates have expressed 
dissatisfaction at not having a graduate re
presentative on the search committee. Van 
Horn remarked that the interests of these 
graduates have much in common with 
those of the faculty research users such as 
GSIAs Prescott. Undergraduates, however, 
have very different interests in the Center. 
They desire systems that teach pro
gramming, and which provide rapid turn
around and editing.
Considering these different interests, the 
board still came to an agreement on the 
qualities that the new director should 
possess. All applicants for the job were 
required 01 submit a brief analysis of how
he or she expected to deal with key issues 
in center management. Each applicant also 
was to comment on how to determine the 
overall budget level for the center and to 
include information on other issues they 
felt were critical.
Rutledge came to CMU in 1970 to take 
the directorship of the Computation 
Center. During his tenure, the PDP system 
was installed and the WATFIV compiler 
first made available. Rutledge himself feels 
that his contribution to the center has been 
a marked increase in efficiency, so that this 
center operates under a lower, more con
strained budget, than other universities 
with comparable equipment.
In 1972, he was installed as Chief of 
Operations on the basis of his work in the 
Center. For the past year, his two jobs 
overlapped, until the Cyert memo of last 
October set into motion the machinery for 
obtaining a new Center Director.
Options on 
Foreign Study
by Jan Lindberg
A great number of foreign study 
opportunities, ranging from fellowships 
and grants to semesters and summers 
abroad, are available to undergraduates, 
graduates and faculty members. In an 
effort to encourage interest and participa
tion in these programs, Dean Milligan 
wants students to be aware that there is a 
wealth of information on foreign study 
available in her office, in 207 Warner Hall.
In recent years, increased interest in 
foreign study has led to the creation of 
diverse programs of study in all parts of the 
world, for students ,'n all fields.
The six major fellowships for which 
information is available through Dean 
Milligan include the Churchill Scholarship, 
the Danforth Fellowship for College Teach
ing Careers, the Fulbright-Hayes for 
Graduate Study or Research Abroad, the 
Marshall Scholarship, the Rhodes Scholar
ship and the Luce Scholarship. All have 
application deadlines in the early fall, 
except for the Luce Scholarship, for which 
C-MU will be nominating candidates this 
spring.
When Dean Milligan was appointed to 
administer the fellowship applications, she 
began to receive requests from students for 
information on other types of foreign 
study as well. She now has files on many 
such programs.
As a member of ILE (Institute of Inter
national Education) C-MU receives all 
current publications concerning new 
programs. Pamphlets distributed by U.S. 
colleges offering programs of foreign study, 
and foreign universities with courses for 
American students, are sent to C-MU and 
channelled to Dean Milligans office. Along 
with the printed material specifically 
concerning fellowships and courses of 
study, literature put out by the State 
Department concerning other facets of 
living abroad, such as travel, transportation 
costs, and student discount rates, are also 
available. Students who have graduated, 
working graduates, and students already in 
Graduate School can also get help from the 
office in Warner Hall. There is up-to-date 
information on many of the programs 
posted on the bulletin board outside the 
office, including related topics, such as 
deadlines and dates for GREs.
If you are interested in obtaining in
formation on any of the programs, contact 
Dean Milligan for an appointment. She will 
provide you with material relevant to your 
particular needs and organize a file card so 
she can notify you as she becomes aware of 
any new programs. She can also advise you 
on the specifics of each different program: 
eligibility, age limit, language requirements, 
and application deadlines. If you are seek
ing a financial award, she can inform you 
about the particular awards which may be 
accessible to you. She can often refer you 
to other faculty members for further assist
ance, as well.
It is vital, if you are considering study 
abroad, to do extensive research and work 
closely with your department to insure 
receiving credit for courses taken in a 
foreign university, and in finding the pro
grams which are best suited to your own 
interests. Guidance for such research is 
available from Dean Milligan.
Photo by Brian Smith
CMU in search of new head for Computation Center.
FREE... AM-FM RADIO
Name Our New CMU 
Student Store
Submit your entries for a name at the 
SKIBO information desk by Sat. Jan. 26th.
Winner will be announced by Feb. 1st 
and will receive a portable AM-FM radio.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, January 22, 1974
by Stacey Robin Kimbell
Theres a sign in the elevator at 237 5th 
Avenue that screams DO NOT TOUCH 
THESE BUTTONS. Its on the way up to 
Maries Tea Room which is on the pukegreen chipped-paint fifth floor of the same 
building. Maries Tea Room advertises in 
the buses and boasts that theyve been in 
the same location for seven years. The 
reason they tell you this with such pride is 
cause they do fortunetelling. Of the card
and the tea leaf reading variety. Readers 
and advisors usually wander, so its a feat 
that they remained so long. You get a free 
reading with each meal and the price of 
your meal determines the length of your 
reading and the goodness of your fortune, 
for sure. It says so on the menu.
It also says on the menu prices that are 
very high for lousy food. Eating at Maries 
Tea Room is like dining at a Salvation 
Army Mission for Christmas. The walls are 
crayola flesh colored and there are pelicans 
hand painted at random places. The seats 
have grandmas rose curtains for covers and 
the tables shake. The lights are too loud. 
Maries has totally stripped the romantic 
possibilities of a tea room. It is an ugly 
place. It cost three bucks to eat stuffed 
cabbage and old canned green beans and 
french fries and Liptons tea with no leaves 
for reading. For $2.25 it would have been 
one stu f fed cabbage, for $2.85 they 
serve two rotten rice filled stuffed cab
bages. Also it meant a longer reading.
There were a lot of women alone in 
Maries. They were all sitting at tables 
against the walls fidgeting, waiting for their 
reader. It seems most of them had made 
requests and were waiting nervously. The 
readers were all dressed in Hollywood
THE EXORCIST: PERSPECTIVES ON GOD AND THE DEVIL
Father Philip Walsh
Roman Catholic Chaplain - CMU
Rabbi Phillip Sigal 
Executive Director,
BNai BRith Hillel - 
Jewish University Center
Pastor J. Paul Balas 
Lutheran Chaplain - CMU
Wednesday, 23 January 
Wherrett Room, Skibo, 8pm 
Sponsored by
CMU Student Activities Department 
CMU Chaplains Association
Open to Campus Community
stereotype gypsy garb. One of them, who 
walked with her legs well spread apart, was 
wearing a hot pink sleeveless dress with 
black patent leather pumps and an old 
chicken feather sticking out of her hair. 
Rosemary, the lady who read me, was 
wearing a silver and peach crepe-paper 
looking skirt and vest with a purple shirt 
on underneath. She had glasses and a wart 
on her nose. They all carried around a pack 
of Tally-Ho cards in one hand and a wallet 
in the other.
You cant be read until youve eaten 
and paid and as we paid the waitress leaned 
over to my accompaniest and said, What
ever you want to leave your waitress 
leave in this tray and whatever youd like 
to give to the reader give directly to her. 
This explains the wallet. Rosemary came to 
sit after we paid. I was being read by cards. 
She stared into my left eye, (a gypsy curse 
maybe?), gave good evenings and then 
told me I should make a wish and cut the 
deck into three piles. She said shed see if 
she could make my wish come true. 
Rosemary was the most fluent mumbler 
ever to be heard. She probably figured it 
gives a mysterious air to her show if you 
cant hear her. Anyways I might have 
wrecked the entire thing cause I dont 
think I wished.
First thing she told me was that there 
was a gentleman on my mind. This is an 
opener that cant go too wrong with any
one really. Then she said that something 
good would happen in July and in 
September Id take a short trip somewhere 
Id enjoy. That was from the first pile. She 
might have said other stuff but I couldnt 
hear a thing with her mumbling and dishes 
clanking all over the place. In the next pile 
there was an ace of spades - automatic 
trouble anywhere. It meant in this case 
that I was going to hear of a death soon of 
someone falling while doing something 
they werent supposed to do. In the third 
pile she said that I was going to have an 
overnight guest this weekend. I asked her if 
Td know the person but she didnt find that 
at all amusing. She didnt find anything 
amusing, in fact.
Next she threw down the cards and told 
me to pick out five. She looked at them 
and told me I had an allergy, which I dont 
and she said I leaned on someone named 
John, although she might have said I lean 
on a John. With a few more comments she 
was through and she said, Nice talkin to 
ya, which was the cue for the tip. We 
didnt produce, so she said it again and 
waited. Finally when it was apparent we 
werent tipping she said, There are a lot of 
weaknesses around which might have to do 
with why youre a bit heavy . . . With that
For Men & Women
1814 Murray Ave. 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15217 JJ
she got up and left. Such is the life of a 
gagging gourmet.
Two elephants in a South Australian 
zoo have bred 74 baby elephants and are 
now celebrating their 50th anniversary 
together. An elephant never forgets.
Coming next week Professor
by Kitty Fischer

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, January 22, 1974Page 13
WESTING 
A Con For All Seasons
by Mark Evan Chimsky
The Sting is infectious. Breezy as Scott 
Joplins superb ragtime score, the film 
revels in its chronicling of two 1930s con 
men out to hustle the odds. The casting is 
inspired, reuniting that dynamic duo of 
Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, Paul 
Newman and Robert Redford. Together, 
they weave the kind of rare movie magic 
which draws enthusiastic cheers and 
applause from film-viewers.
The performances are matched by a
keen, brillinat script by David S. Ward. 
With the precision of a card shark, the film 
plays its winning hand for all its worth. We 
follow penny-ante grifter Johnny Hooker 
(Robert Redford) as he weasles into the 
big-time Con Game by joining forces with a 
notorious, rascally rouge by the name of 
Henry Gondorff (Paul Newman). The 
intrigue mounts as the twosome risk their 
way toward revenge for an old partners 
murder, while racking up a smooth half
million in the process. Reaching to exceed 
their grasp, Hooker and Gondorff aim to
swindle Doyle Lonergan, the aristocratic 
ace of the New York syndicate. Utilizing 
his stable of racketeers, the cream of 
Chicagos Underworld crop, Gondorff sets 
into motion his master plan.
The Sting flows like a cons life, teasing 
and surprising its audience at every turn, 
from the initial set-up to the hook to the 
climactic sting. The film has all the 
panache of a pro-con, and we look upon 
The Stings sleight-of-hand skill with the same 
admiration we feel for any expert artist, 
legit or ill-.
Robert Redford achieves a boyish 
earnestness and affability that consistently 
charm. His swift sense of comedy has an 
honesty that saves his performance from 
ever becoming too precious. He is a perfect 
complement to Paul Newmans wry Henry 
Gondorff. With those blue eyes atwinkle, 
Newman seems to relish his role; deftly 
assuming all the easy and wise expertise of 
a hustler on the lam. His comic flair is
enchanting. In the poker sequence, where 
he attempts to play drunk, as well as 
cards-and succeeds at both-he, (excuse the 
expression), steals the picture.
As the fierce Irish Lonergan, Robert 
Shaw presents a rich and menacing 
characterization. Even the uneasy limp is 
effective. The Sting is studded with an 
impeccable supporting cast. Foremost 
among them is Eileen Brennan, as the 
cynical madam with a heart of tarnished 
gold. In a moments expression, Ms. 
Brennan articulates her entire history. She 
is one of the screens finest actresses, and 
her appearance is all too ephemeral.
Of the others who aid and abet the 
films superior artistry, Ray Walston as a 
con masquerading as a horse-race 
announcer, and Robert Earl Jones, as 
Redfords first grifting coach, are 
particularly worthy of note. In fact, 
Jones brief portrayal is so touching, so 
beautifully sculpted that it should be 
remembered significantly around 
Academy Award time.
The true mastermind of The Sting is 
director George Roy Hill (also of Butch 
Cassidy fame). Hill glides us along at that 
Joplin pace of honky-tonk jazz. He has a 
sharp, assured cinematic eye, and at times, 
a few flashes of genius up his sleeve. One 
striking example is a little scene in which 
prostitutes whirl madly on an old, gaily 
painted merry-go-round. It * sounds a 
strange, almost surrealistic note in the film 
without ever seeming incongruous. Also, 
special kudos are due to costumer. Edith 
Head, who renders the flavor of an era with 
stylishly tailored grace.
Minor masterpieces are few and far be
tween nowdays, and I urge you to catch 
this one while you can. You wont have to 
be conned into enjoying The Sting. To see 
it is to love it.
WANTED ACTORS AND ACTRESSES
for P.G. movie being made in Pittsburgh. 
Please send a photo and a resume, including 
age and previous acting experience to:
TECH /v\EMMR. ROBERT MURPHY
17 Unger Lane 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15217

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, January 22, 1974
ON RERD
by Terry Cay wood
YES: Tales of Topigraphical Oceans 
PAUL McCARTNEY: Band On The Run 
THE CREDIBILITY GAP: A Great Gift 
Idea
MIKE OLDFIELD: Tubular Bells 
GRAHAM NASH: Wild Tales
structured
effects.
with nicely handled musical ask of a myth?
I suppose what is most sorely lacking is 
the usually greater contribution by Rick 
Wakeman. His keyboards lend little beyond 
background chords and an occasional 
frenetic outburst. After his stunning Henry 
the Eighth album, we know what he can 
YES: d> and we thirst for more. But taking
After being burned on the Gose To The Topigraphical Oceans as is, its an exciting 
review I did in this space about a year album that Yes fans will be dissecting for 
ago (I gave it a B-, and then later decided years. And, oh yes, Roger Dean again did 
after many more listenings that it rated the cover. Enough said.
A++), I listened to Tales of Topigraphical 
Oceans many times over before making 
judgement. And still Im not sure.
Yes is not a particularly accesible group, 
musically. A two record set of new 
material means a lot of wading through 
unfamiliar waters. Like The Whos Quadrophenia and Elton Johns Yellow Brick 
Road album, initial boredom may set in for 
the sole reason of unfamiliarity. But, gosh, 
there are some tasty spots.
The album is based on the four-part 
Shastic scriptures, each side devoted to 
each part: Revealing Science of God,
The Remembering, The Ancient, and 
Ritual. The album leans toward a loose
ness usually underplayed by Yes, though 
the performance is far from shoddy.
Presumably in reaction to past criticism of 
Yes precision and steriliity (former 
drummer Bill Brufords reason for leaving), 
they have become mellower than before, 
yet still retaining the Yes intensity,with 
rhythms and riffs familiar from previous 
works.
The first movement is engaging and 
encounters some nice transitions . Move
ment two, with a possibly boring intro, is 
saved by interesting acoustic guitar work 
by Steve Howe. The third side, heavily into 
rhythm from Alan White, is also rescued by 
Howes phenomenal classical guitar. Side 
four, the best by far, is joyous and well
k'k'k'k'k'k'k'k'k'k'k'kirkirk'k'k'kirtrk'k'k^'kiK'k'k'k'k'k-k'k'k'k
McCARTNEY:
So finally we get to hear James Paul at 
ease in the studio, and it takes the loss of 
his band to bring it about (everybodys 
gone except Denny Laine, and of course, 
Linda). Probably what helped it along was 
the Wings tour a while ago, and we caught 
a bit of foreshadowing on The Mess, the 
song on the flip side of My Love. Mc
Cartney here has at last achieved real 
musical clout as a solo artist, and it is 
proven ten times over on Band On The 
Run
Let Me Roll It has an intense 
Lennon (of all people) influence through
out, and the cobker Jet might have been 
produced by George Martin when the 
Beatles were together. Mrs. Vanderbilt 
lets us hear what mucic from the Wildlife 
album could have sounded like if done
properly, while Picassos Last Words 
goes through changes not unlike those of 
the Abbey Road era, complete with re
frains and verses from other songs on the 
album. Nineteen Hundred and Eighty 
Five brings the album to a tight close with 
fine vocal acrobatics and the noted 
McCartney piano. The album has boogie 
and rock and schlock. What more can we
GRAHAM NASH:
More great stuff as youd expect from 
Graham, with help from Joni Mitchell, 
David Crosby, Dave Mason and others. 
After the embarrassing performances from 
Neil Young and Steve Stills in the last year, 
Graham seems to be the only survivor of 
the CSNY collapse, countinuing to pour 
out quality stuff. With control over both 
country and rock, there are some nice 
tunes on the album: Oh Camil, Grave 
Concern, Another Sleep Song, as well 
as the albums title track.
MIKE OLDFIELD:
Merely a fourty minute fifty second ex
travaganza of a performance. Mike Oldfield 
does all the instruments on Tubular Bells 
save drums, and a stunning vocal showing 
by Vivian Stanshall (originally of the now 
defunct Bonzo Dog Band) adds the icing to 
the cake. Tubular Bells drifts from quiet 
acoustical to honest rock to real suprises, 
all with a classical flair.
Mike Oldfield is sure to turn a lot of 
heads around in the future.
THE CREDIBILITY GAP:
Tired of Cheech and Chong? You gotta 
give a listen to A Great Gift Idea. Some
thing short of an hour of media-oriented 
humor from Black movies to Public Broad
castings An American Family to 
Necrophelia, the Credibility Gap is a nice 
addition to a humor library.
,19t 7y4V121Hy oulomu e1Ny 
baa3Sud THAT I KNOW HOW TO 
SOLVE OUR ENEKY CRISIS, AND 
HAVE SENT (AE LETTERS ASKl NG 
WHAT Gbv Be DONE ABOUT IT. 
T**3 IS AM OMJY QUESTION, BUT 
* 00 HAVE A COUPLE OF IDEAS.
bvaPuJa me 
MAIL
FIRS^ WE SHOULD ALL SET OUR 
REFRIGERATORS TO MF. THIS 
MEASURE. WILL NOT ONLY HELP
eubr l3J slSuai T3r 1mal PAmmi 
abFu k TbJJuma lp lAm dbAmW R
vuCri Pu Gbv G3r 7Mg9 lv 
y9y2ht Glva3SorAlv Tt L4w9h 
M9Et HeM4y yEycH2M9wc 4Ew7y 
2LEy4 gArs 4ACfdADAr 7w4VE1t4. 
Psl JubmmW vuuda bmm rslau
A bmal Pl3md bdFAau DAGWGmu JAduJa
1-0 SCT A SPEED LIMIT OF 50 MitES PE* 
HOUR For -THEIR VEHICLES, 50 THAT 
AUTOS TRAVELING AT &S MAY BE ABLE 
TO PASS. YOU MAY AS VJ6LL DO THIS 
NOW BEFORE CONGRESS MAKES IT ALL 
MANDATORY .
FINALLY, ADOPTION OF A SIX-DAY 
WEEK WOULD RESULT IN A DROP 
5% 1W ANNUAL ENERGY USE J 
THIS CAN BE ACHIEVED AUTOMATICALLY 
BY ELIMINATING THURSDAYS.
MAKE YOUR OWN
 COMMERCIALS
 AB & CAMPUS ADS
 DOCUMENTARY
 CARTOONS
Join the AB Video-Tape Committee
leave your name and number for Marty Lisberger 
at the Skibo info desk#
FREE!
GROOVE TUBE I
Tuesday, February 22  Friday, February 25 
SKIBO LOBBY  11:30 - 4:30
BROUGHT TO YOU BY THE
AB VIDEO  TAPE COMMITTEE

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, January 22, 1974Page 1b
sss
Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre will present the 
ballet Coppelia Friday through Sunday, 
February 8th, 9th and 10th. Tickets are 
available at Kaufmanns, or at the Heinz 
Hall box office. Dail 281-0360 for more 
information.
Joe Williams will appear for six days 
beginning February 4th down in Market 
Square at Walt Harpers Attic. Williams is 
one of the smoothest song stylists, sining 
jazz and the blues. Williams used to sing for 
Count Basie, and hes done music specials 
on TV with Ella Fitzgerald and Duke 
Ellington. The Modern Jazz Quartet will 
follow his appearance, beginning February 
20th.
Chamber Music Series- Three chamber 
music concerts will begin at CarnegieMellon University on Wednesday, January 
23. The January 23rd Concert will feature 
Fritz Siegel concertmaster of the Pitts
burgh Symphony Orchestra on violin; Jerry 
Horner on viola, Michael Grebanier, cello; 
and Harry Franklin, piano, who is a pro
fessor of music at C-MU. The program will 
include works by Beethoven, Mozart, and 
Brahms. Student ticket prices are $2.50 for 
the series of three (other concerts in March 
and April), or $1 for individual tickets. The 
concerts will be held in the Skibo Ballroom 
beginning at 8:30 p.m.
Famous Conductor at Heinz Hall- Roberto 
Benzi, who has conducted many major 
orchestras in both Europe and the United 
States, will make his Heinz Hall debut with 
the Pittsburgh Symphony orchestra on 
January 25, 26, 27th. The concerts will 
feature the annual solo appearance of con
certmaster Franz Siegal. Call Heinz Hall at 
281-5000 for ticket information.
Billy Joel in Concert The Activities Board 
will present Billy Joel for free with an I.D. 
card, two dollars without, on February 9th 
in the Music Hall.
Textile Exhibit. Ann Boyajian will exhibit 
her drawings and sewings in the Hewlett 
Gallery in the Fine Arts Building, now 
through January 24th.
Mitch Miller will conduct a benefit concert on February 3.
Hamlet Nicol Williamsons Hamlet will be 
shown on WQED TVon Saturday, January 
26th at 7:30 p.m. as part of the 
Humanities Film Forum. It is a 1969 
British film, directed by Tony Richardson. 
When I saw Williamson do Hamlet, he 
turned his back to the audience during the 
To be or not to be speech because he 
said we all knew it already. Cute.
Enemies Maxim Gorkis Fine play about 
Russian workers in the early 1900s will 
follow the production of Hamlet on the 
26th at 10 p.m.
Mitch Miller There will be a special Pops 
concert with the Pittsburgh Symphony 
Orchestra conducted by the T.V. maestro 
on February 3rd at 8 p.m. for the benefit 
of the Pension Fund. The varied concert 
includes a sing-along. For ticket price infor
mation, contact the Heinz Hall Box Office 
at 281-5000 and ask for Dorothy Bates.
All events here are subject to change with
out nQtice. Check all events by phone for 
confirmation.
Billy Joel will appear on February 9 in the Music Hall.
THE BACK DOOR
UNIVERSITY COFFEEHOUSE
FRIDAYS 9-1 A.M.
this week: Human Sexuality Seminar 8:30 P.M.
Folksinger & Denise 
coming up: Feb. 1 - Resurrection
Feb. 8 - Folksinger Lee Mulhare
NO ADMISSION CHARGE 
FOOD
ENTERTAINMENT 
OPEN STAGE
RODEF SHALOM BASEMENT 
CORNER 5th AND MOREWOOD 
ENTRANCE - - REAR PARKING LOT
????????????????????????????????????????????????

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, January 22, 1974
Three little words can save you medicine money.
Frequently when you're sick, nothing hurts 
as much as the cost of the medicine to help 
you get better. But there is a way you can 
save money on prescription drugs and medi
cine. By remembering three little words . . . 
"the generic name."
What do these words mean?
Simply this. Your doctor can write a prescrip
tion two ways. He can write the "brand 
name or the generic name (pronounced 
jen-air-ic) of the drug. The difference is that 
prescriptions can cost a lot less if the doctor 
uses the generic name.
How come?
Most well-known advertised brands of any
thing cost more than unknown or store 
brands. You pay for the advertising that 
makes the "brand name" well-known. Brand 
name drugs also usually cost more. For ex
ample, one drug used to reduce high blood 
pressure costs drug stores about $4.50 under 
its "brand name, yet only 99<f under its gen
eric name. What's more, up to half of the
most widely prescribed drugs (the top 50) are 
available under their generic name.
Here's what to do.
First, ask your doctor to write down the generic name instead of the brand name. Don't 
be afraid to tell him you need to save money 
on medicine. Second, tell your pharmacist 
that the prescription calls for the generic 
name at your request. Ask for the lowestpriced quality generic drug he or she can 
recommend.
You could tear out this message and wrap 
it around your finger to help you remember. 
Oryou could keep thinking of the dollars you 
want to save. Either way, remembering three 
little words can save you lots of medicine 
money. Please remember the generic name.
Public Communication,Inc.
2005 L Street N.W., Washington, D.C. 20036
Citizen-supported advertising and research in the public interest.
Prepared in cooperation with D.C. Public Interest Research Group 
800 21st Street N.W., Washington, D.C. 20006

---------------------------------------------------

 THE TARTAN-Tuesday, January 22, 1974-Page 17
SPORTS
1972-73-CMU 61, Thiel1973-74-CMU 61, W&J5959
photo by Lardas
Greg Chambers tries a jumper while Rich Klein (52) fights for position.
The Seattle Supersonics
by Roger Geddes
Dr. Richard Cyert, the President of our 
University, seems to have a knack for 
knowing when to attend C-MU basketball 
games. Last season he attended C-MUs 
only victory, a 61-59 decision over Thiel. 
Twenty-two games later and twenty-two 
losses later he came to another game and 
saw the Tartans defeat the Washington and 
Jefferson Presidents in the last minute in a 
tremendously exciting game, again by the 
score of 61-59.
W & J led almost the entire first half 
until Paul Hamerly, who had the game high 
of 21 points, sank a free throw with two 
and a half minutes left to make the score 
28-27. However, W&J fought back and 
went into the locker room at the half with 
a 32-28 lead.
In the second half, sensing that their 
first victory was within reach, C-MU played 
hustling basketball and consecutive baskets 
by Bonn, Chambers, Hamerly and Chamb
ers again built up a seven point lead 45-38. 
The momentum stayed with the Tartans 
until Chambers fouled out and Hamerly 
received his fourth foul. The Presidents 
capitalized on this and took over the lead, 
55-52, with only four minutes remaining in 
the game. The last four minutes of the 
game became extremely physical and Rich 
Klein along with three W&J players re
ceived their fifth fouls.
Leading 57-56 with three minutes left 
and rapidly losing players, the Presidents 
put on their stall until. Paul Hamerly stole 
the ball and sank a jump shot with 46 
seconds left to lead by one point. On W & 
Js attempt to win the game with the last 
shot, Chuck DAngelo was fouled and he 
connected on his two foul shots to put the 
game away with eight seconds left. In the 
very last seconds, the Presidents called a 
time-out although they had none left. A 
technical foul was called and DAngelo 
took advantage of the mistake and con
nected on the point.
Hopefully, although W&J has not won 
a game this year, this game will be the 
spark the Tartans have needed to start 
winning basketball games. Renewed op
timism may be generated as Chambers and 
DAngelo had their best games of the 
season by far. With these two playing up to 
their potentials and with the continuing 
improvement of Hamerly and Klein, the 
future of the team looks good. With Mike 
Wagener leaving the team, the leadership of 
this young team will have to fall into the 
hands of the two upperclassmen on the 
team, Gary Rentsch and Mark Donato.
Earlier in the week the Tartans lost 
Hiram 102-70 and John Carooll 90-62. 
Hamerly had 23 points in the Hiram game 
and 16 in the John Carroll game. The team 
will take on St. Vincent Wednesday at 
home, Thiel on Friday away, and Allegh
eny on Saturday, also at home.
The Seattle Supersonics are the most 
overpaid and overated players in basket
ball. Because of the frantic scrambling for 
name players between the rival pro leagues, 
the Supersonics granted ridiculous no-cut 
contracts to sign players from the ABA. 
Jim McDaniels, who has spent more of his 
career in a law court than on a basketball 
court, is now receiving $267,000 a year for 
the next five years, even though he has 
been cut from the team. This is emblematic 
of the madness surrounding pro basketball 
today and an example of why very few 
teams turn a profit.
Sam Schulman, the Sonics owner and 
the man responsible for the teams sorry 
state of affairs, has finally done something 
right. By hiring Bill Russell, the greatest 
winner in the sports history, Schulman has 
finally made a move to improve the team. 
Russell has almost unprecedented power 
and has already begun the slow process of 
rebuilding.
Russell inherited a team so dispirited 
that they have been accused of dumping a 
game in order to get a coach fired. If 
Russell even suspects a player is not putting 
out, he better make reservations for Allen
town. Former Pittsburgh Condor John 
Brisker, who is pulling down a paltry 
$170,000 a year, has incurred Russells 
wrath and is one step away from becoming 
the highest paid player in the Eastern 
League.
A coach who has the power to treat 
high-priced players like this is truly unique 
in sports. The most fitting sobriquet 
applied to Russell during his playing days 
was given him by Tom Meschery, a man 
whose give-no-quarter style of play belied 
his sensitivity and poetic abilities. Mesch
ery dubbed Russell the eagle with a
beard and this image of a player soaring 
above his peers is most appropriate to 
Russells abilities and the awe he still in
spires in basketball circles.
Since Russell is a legend and his fame is 
secure as the man who led the Boston 
Celtics to 11 championships in 13 years, 
why did he take the job in Seattle? Russell 
personifies the team concept and the 
Supersonics are the antithesis of this. For
mer player coach Lenny Wilkens threw 
more passes in one game than last years 
Sonics threw in a month. This is the ul
timate challenge in Russells career and he 
is a man who thrives on pressure. (The 
$250,000 a year and deed to Mt. Rainier 
might have also provided some induce
ment.) Russell has the elusive quality that 
separates the losers from the winners. Play
ing a one-on-one game in his backyard or 
for the NBA championship, Russell would 
want to win just as badly. In the later years 
of the Celtic dynasty it was this mystique 
of winning that Russell has as much as 
anything else that helped the Celtics 
remain champions. Sam Schulman hopes 
his coaches winning ways inspire his play
ers as much as payday does.
The NBA All Star Game was just played 
in Seattle and this is probably the best 
caliber basketball Sonics fans will see for a 
while. Bill Russell was a fixture at All Star 
Games and it was strange to see one in 
which his only appearance was as a pitch
man for long distance. In the commercial, 
Russell claims you cant miss with long 
distance and though left-handed he fires a 
long range right handed hook that tantalyzingly rolls around the rim before it 
drops in. In any endeavor he might under
take, even the Seattle Supersonics, you 
know he just cant miss.
Photos by Lardas
Surrounded by 3 Hiram players, Paul Hamerly shoots as
Greg Chambers goes up for a pair. Chuck D'Angelo (24) looks on.
LIVE SPORTS COVERAGE ON wRCT
Wednesday, 8 pm  hockey vs. St. Vincent Tune in ten minutes before game time to
Friday, 8 pm  basketball vs. Thiel hear the pre-game show. Broadcasting at
Saturday, 2 pm  basketball vs. Allegheny 900 kHz for the moment.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, January 22, 1974
Undefeated Tartan Skaters Continue to Roll
by Dave Girdany
The C-MU hockey team continues to 
live up to its role as the favorite for the 
league championship, as the Tartans are the 
only undefeated team in the WPIHA. Their 
perfect 5-0 record includes two victories 
against the St. Vincent Bearcats, two 
against the Duquesne Dukes, and one 
against their leading contender, the Pitt 
Panthers.
C-MU and Duquesne played the first 
game in the first league doubleheader at 
the Civic Arena on Sunday evening, 
December 2. This seasons Tartans seem to 
suffer the same problem as last seasons-a 
slow start-only this time the team didnt 
start playing until the third period, as the 
Dukes held a 2-1 lead at the end of two 
periods. The only Tartan goal was scored 
early in the game, as a Duquesne player 
accidently put the puck in his own net. 
The Tartans finally got going in the third 
period, scoring three goals in the first five 
minutes and seventeen seconds. C-MU 
dominated this period, building its lead to 
4 with half a minute left in the game. 
Duquesne scored with four seconds remain
ing, to make the final score C-MU 7, 
Duquesne 4.
On Wednesday evening, December 5, 
the Tartans played St. Vincent, usually a 
tough opponent for them. The Bearcats 
scored the first and last goals of the game, 
but in between it was all C-MU. Mike 
Kenworthy scored twice for the Tartans, 
while Jeff Jacobs and Matt Goldsmith also 
scored, to make the final score C-MU 4, St. 
Vincent 2. (St. Vincent had no shots on 
goal in the second period.)
C-MU played its first big game of the 
season on Sunday evening, December 9, 
against Pitt at the Civic Arena. The Tartans 
came away with an impressive 6-4 victory. 
Rick Vernon opened the scoring for Pitt on 
a breakaway after about four minutes of 
the first period. C-MU again was having 
first period difficulties, and Pitt appeared 
to be controlling the game until Mike 
Kenworthy beat Pitt goalie Bart Mack with 
a backhand at about nine and a half 
minutes of the first period. The score 
remained tied going into the second period. 
Pete Davis scored in the first half-minute of 
the second period to give C-MU its first 
lead. This did not last, as Rick Vernon 
scored two goals in less than two minutes, 
midway through the period to give Pitt the 
lead again. With time running out in the 
period, Jeff Jacobs and Roger Peterson 
scored on power play goals to make the 
score 4-3 at the end of two. The game
remained close through the first part of the 
third period. Pete Davis scored his second 
goal of the game at 6:48, to give the Tar
tans a two-goal cushion. Rich Eastman 
scored on a power play about three 
minutes later to seal the verdict. Rick 
Vernon tallied his fourth goal of the game 
with about three and a half minutes left in 
the game, to make the final score C-MU 6, 
Pitt 4. Rick Vernon keptRtt in the game, 
scoring all four goals, to dominate indivi
dual honors. Pete Davis, however, played 
an outstanding game for the Tartans, 
scoring twice and assisting on two other 
goals. This game terminated play for the 
first semester.
C-MU and Duquesne opened play for 
the new year on Saturday afternoon. 
January 12, at the Civic Arena. In a com
plete reversal of form, C-MU played a good 
first period, skating to a 2-0 advantage, as 
Jeff Jacobs and Matt Goldsmith scored for 
C-MU. The second period was similar to 
the first, with one exception: Duquesne 
controlled play, tying the game at two 
going into the third period. The Tartans 
did a little better in the third period, 
scoring twice, but one goal was called back. 
Rick Forman scored the winner at 11:33 
of the final period, to make the final score 
3-2. The Tartans managed to salvage a win 
in their worst game of the season, indica
tive of a great team.
C-MUs league leading defense is led by 
its excellent goaltender, Jeff Hart, with a 
2.40 goals against average. The leading goal 
scorer for the Tartans is Roger Peterson, 
with five. Pete Davis has four goals, Mike 
Kenworthy and Jeff Jacobs have three 
each, Matt Goldsmith has two, and Mike 
Gallaway, Rick Forman, Joe Molnar, Rich 
Eastman, and John Houser all have one 
each.
The Tartans, although in first place, 
have only a two-point lead over Pitt; this 
situation makes every game important. 
C-MUs next league game is at Sewickley 
tomorrow night against St. Vincent. Then 
the Tartans face Indiana at the Civic Arena 
on Sunday afternoon, January 27, at 1:00. 
Penn State McKeesport provides the 
opposition Tuesday evening, January 29, at 
7:30 at the Alpine. But the next BIG game 
is at 1:00 Saturday afternoon, February 2, 
when the C-MU Tartans will meet the Pitt 
Panthers. Tickets for all home games are 
available at Skibo the week before the 
game, or one can purchase tickets from a 
team member. The, Titans could use 
support at all of the upcoming games, 
which they must win to stay in first place.
C-MU is currently in first place in the WPIHA, with a 5-0-0 record. 
Official League Standings - January 16
GAWLTPts.GF(
C-MU500102212
Pitt4108394
Penn State-McKpt.32061523
Duquesne13021317
Indiana\3021017
St. Vincent1021228
SCORING SUMMARIES 
C-MU vs. DUQUESNE-December 2, 1973
1] (1) C-MU--Molnar (2) Duquesne-Bender 2] (3) Duquesne-Bender 
(Boylan) 3] (4) C-MU-Peterson; (5) C-MU-Davis; (6) C-MU-Galloway; 
(7) Duquesne- Boylan (Duffy); (8) C-MU-Peterson; (9) C-MU-Hauser 
(Kenworthy); (10) C-MU- Davis (Powell); (11) Duquesne-Boylan 
(Szczurko)
C-MU vs. ST. VINCENT-December 5,1973
1] (1) SV-Vance (Farrell, Hohenfeld); (2) C-MU-Kenworthy (Gallaway, 
Graves) 2] (3) C-MU-Jacobs (Kenworthy, Gallaway); (4) Goldsmith 
(Eastman) 3] (5) C-MU-Kenworthy (Forman); (6) SV-McDaniel (Solan)
C-MU vs. PITT-December 9, 1973
1 }< 1 ) Pitt-Vernon (4:14); (2) C-MU-Kenworthy (9:25); 2](3) C-MUDavis (Peterson) (0:29); (4) Pitt-Vernon (Mack) (7:30); (5) Pitt-Vernon 
(:18); (6) C-MU-Jacobs (Davis, Kenworthy) (12:46); (7) C-MU-Peterson 
(Davis, Grimm) (14:42); 3](8) C-MU-Davis (Gallaway, Jacobs) (6:48); 
(9) C-MU-Eastman (Gallaway) (9:35); (10) Pitt-Vernon (Hogins) 
(11:29)
C-MU vs. DUQUESNE-January 12, 1974
1] (1) C-MU-Jacobs (Davis (3:36); (2) C-MU-Goldsmith (11:55) 2] (3) 
Duq-Duffy (Cotton) (1:34); (4) Duq-Barbe (Sullivan) (8:03); ) 3] (5) 
C-MU-Forman (Eastman, Kenworthy) (11:33)
Who*cares?
Who cares about smoggy skies and polluted lakes. 
About empty cans and trash littering our country
side. About plants and trees dying in our forests. And 
animals too. Who cares? Woodsy Owl, the Nations 
new battler for a clean environment cares. And so 
should you. Join Woodsy in the fight against pollution.
JomWradsyDttfc fighLagamst polhition/Ioday

---------------------------------------------------

* THE TARTANTuesday, January 22, 1974Page 19
* Raiders, Orangatangs 
Look Good in Preseason
by Jim Litsas
>
This week, Intramural basketball teams 
play the first games of their season, which 
will not be completed until March. IM 
basketball has the greatest number of 
participants of any IM sport at C-MU, with 
a total participation in the three leagues of 
over 500. And this year promises to bring 
lots of good basketball and enjoyment for 
) all.
In the majors, Raiders IV is a team that 
was undefeated last year until the champ
ionship game, when they lost to Salt and 
Pepper. The latter team has lost several key 
players since last year, and one cannot 
surmise how well they mighfdo this year. 
The Raiders, however, have essentially the 
same team as they did last year, and in fact 
) have picked up a player. The team starters 
will probably be John Radic, Lee Patch, 
Brian Corlock, Bob Grazzini and Mike 
Bralkowski.
The four larger fiats on campus are also 
fielding major league teams. ATO has a 
team of mostly freshmen (they had 29 
pledges) who havent really played together 
much. The returning players hope to organ\ ize the team, and they expect to reach the 
playoffs.
PKA has also fielded a major league 
team this year, having picked up 3 varsity 
players from last years C-MU team. They 
should certainly be a good, well-organized 
team with Tim Taylor, Steve Rouch, Marty 
Cohen, Mike Roughan and Dave Fry start
ing.
f Betas A team appeared in practice to 
be one of the most well-organized, spirited 
and efficient teams on the court. Captain 
Dave Cacciamani, Stu Cendrone and Jay 
Grott are all big players who should lead 
the team, which is the best A team Beta 
has fielded in four years, to a great season.
SAE has picked up 6*7 Frank Sacco 
from last years Varsity team, and has
 possibly the biggest team in the majors, 
with 3 players at 63 and another at 62.
Their only weakness might be in defense. 
You can expect a good SAE season never
theless.
The various other teams in the majors 
(GSIA, Wild Bunch, etc.) promise to play 
the tough, organized basketball that a 
major league team is expected to play. 
Any team that enters the majors thinks it 
can take it all. We can only watch how the 
season progresses before we see where the 
real powerhouses will lie.
There are 30 intermediate teams, of 
which only 6 will make the playoffs. Phi 
Kappa Taters took the Intermediate crown 
last year, and are returning this year minus 
their tallest player and leading scorer. Dave 
Sauberg, a 63 freshman pledge, hopes to 
make up for this loss by doing the job on 
the boards, and Dan Liska should return 
from last years championship team as high 
scorer.
The Purple Gnurples are a strong team 
that made the playoffs last year. They are 
returning this year with their whole team 
back for the most part, and have added a 
64 center who should really change the 
profile of the team and bring them even 
further down the championship road.
The Orangatangs may be the team to 
watch in Intermediate competition this 
year. They were a highly regarded team 
that beat the Gnurples last year in the 
playoffs. To increase their potency, the 
team has added two ex-varsity stars. Ralph 
Domenick received an honorable mention 
from the PAC last year, and Chuck 
Mrjenovich also played for C-MUs Varsity 
team. The addition of these two players 
should make the Orangatangs the team to 
beat.
The ATO and Beta B teams should 
also play outstanding intermediate ball. As 
two of the biggest frats on campus, they 
have a lot of guys trying out for their A 
teams, and will certainly have a good many 
A-team potentials dropping into their 
B teams.
Dolphin Dynasty
by Mike Pochan
Here we are at Superbowl XIII in the 
Orange Bowl, where the NFC champs, the 
New Orleans Saints, are taking on the 
perennial MFC (Miami Football Confer
ence) champs, the Dolohins. Coach Shulas 
team is favored by 34 points, but Larry 
Csonka says, Dont worry. I plan on 
making it 54.
Seriously now, Miami has won the 
Superbowl twice, been in it three times, 
both consecutively. Oddsmakers favored 
them to win every game they played on the 
1973 schedule. Larry Csonka and Mercury 
Morris turned in fantastic seasons; Bob 
Griese and Paul Warfield were a hot 
combination. Barring any disastrous in
juries, Shula and the Dolphins will be there 
again in 1974, and they will probsoly 
become world champions for the third 
straight time.
Hopefully this will not occur, for in this
writers opinion, it will have a negative 
effect on pro football. Face it. People 
(except for those who are rabid Miami 
fans) will get tired of seeing the Dolphins 
in the Superbowl each year. The Super
bowl will lose the appeal it once had as a 
spectacular match-up of the top teams in 
the world. Who wants to see a game that is 
no contest?
Interest would decline. People would 
quit going to games.
Fear not. Things would never get that 
bad. The Steelers (Pittsburgh bias), the 
Bengals, and the Buffalo Bills have a good 
shot at dethroning the world champs in the 
AFC. Minnesota, the Rams, Dallas, and the
* Redskins may be able to put together a 
consistent squad that can stop the Dolphin 
running and passing attack, and at the same 
time, mount an offensive of its own.
Time will tell. We dont need another 
team like the Yankees.
SLIPPERY ROCK vs C-MU 
SCORE: SR-59 C-MU-51 
January 16, 1974
400 MedleyS.R. Diebold, OLeary, Strong, Geary 4:14.4
CMU Dittman, Matysek, Climer, Gregg 4:14.6
1000 Fr.S.R. Zoellner12:05.0
CMU Cropcho13:53.0
CMU Willmot13:55.0
200 Fr.S.R. Soska2:02.5
CMU Glassman2:06.6
S.R. McCutcheon2:08.0
50 Fr.S.R. Geary22.8
S.R. OLeary24.3
CMU Qimer24.7
S.R. Nea24.8
200 I.M.S.R. Hayes2:22.4
S.R. Siebold2:26.3
CMU Gregg2:26.7
CMU Crist2:32.1
200 FlyS.R. Heath2:27.0
S.R. Strong2:35.4
CMU Present4:01.5
CMU Newman4:02.1
100 Fr.CMU Dittman54.3
S.R. Nea55.1
CMU Glassman55.5
CMU KilburgN.T.
S.R. Geary (Exhib.)50.9*
200 BR.S.R. Zoellner2:16.4*
S.R. Youngdahl2:28.8
CMU Present3:11.6
500 Fr.CMU Cropcho6:42.4
CMU Crist7:45.3
S.R. Exhibition
200 BR.CMU Matysek2:37.5
CMU Uber2:39.2
S.R. Exhibition
Opt. DiveCMU Patti Dyke88.2
S.R. Alongi75.0
400 Fr. RelayCMU - Climer, Gregg, Glassman, Dittman
3:40.8
?Pool Record
BNAI B'RITH HILLEL JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER 1
CMU Winter Lunch and Lecture Series
JEWISH THEMES IN WORLD LITERATURE
Monday, January 28, 11:30 a.m.
Speaker:
PROFESSOR ANITA BROSTOFF
Topic
DAVID THE KING, by Gladys Schmitt
SKIBO, Rooms 105, 106
Free Hebrew and Yiddish classes areoffered. Call for information.
315 Beliefield Ave. (Across from Heinz Chapel)
621-8875

---------------------------------------------------

cut here and save -
Page 20 -THE TARTAN- Tuesday, January 22, 1974--------;--------------------------------------------cut here and save-------------------------------------------
Announcing...
THE EVERY OTHER
TUESDAY AFTERNOON FORUM * 
part ONE: CMU and YOU
Feb. 5: Dr. Richard Cyert (president, Carnegie-Mellon University)
PART TWO: CMU and YOU
Feb. 19: Dr. Ronald Rutledge 
Dr. Edward Schatz
Dean Earle Swank
March 5:Women and Madness
March 12:Impeachment-Tom Kerr GSIA
March 19:Men's Liberation
April 9:Euthanasia: Death by choice or Death by chance
April 23:Witchcraft and the Occult
All Forums are at 12:30 p.m. in Wherett Room, Skibo
FREE TO ALL CMU STUDENTS, FACULTY, and STAFF
Sponsored by the Activities Board
* give or take a week or two
_________________________________cut here and save- >----------------------------------------------
cut here and save
