PKT Proves it in 2:25.4
> SN Wins 
Booth Race
by Steven Correll
Snow and rain warped wood and froze 
carpenters on the Spring Carnival Midway 
^last week, delaying Thursday, nights 
opening two hours, but the show went on. 
Booth judging chairman Peter Spohn said 
attendance this year was tremendous, 
and credited the extra rides with attracting 
many more people to the grounds.
The winning booths in this years design 
judging were Sigma Nus The Monster, 
TDPs Time Machine, and DTDs The 
Gorilla, which placed first, second, and 
third respectively. KATs was judged the 
best sorority booth.
The judges-Dr. Beekman Cottrell 
(English), Ed Fisher (Design), Dr. Angel 
Jordan (EE), John Spohn (Design 
Alumnus), and Tom McGaffin (Civ.E. 
alumnus)-inspected the booths twice, 
awarding them points in the categories of 
originality, design, efficient use of 
^mechanics and electronics, workmanship, 
and public response.
Nus booth effort, couldnt estimate the 
amount of time that his eight-man
Imi tartan
February 20, 1973 Volume 73 number 19
'
Dan Streyle pushes PKT's "Streak across the
finish line in 2:25.4 Photo by Elliot Arons
Carnival Rally: Not So Easy Riders
by Jeff R. Englund
There were two softball games in the 
remaining corners of the IM field due to 
rainouts and the announcer said that ten 
points would go to any cyclist able to put a 
tire track on a ballplayer. The Motorcycle 
Rally got on without mishaps of this or 
any other sort, however, and a remarkably 
huge and enthusiastic crowd, watching in 
weather finally become germane to carnival 
spirit, seemed to enjoy the event, although 
they continued to gradually thin out as the 
afternoon progressed. Almost every 
machine that is manufactured appeared to 
be represented.
The course, covering a relatively small 
area of the thawed out field, included half 
a dozen events testing a riders skiil to 
various degrees. Each participant rode 
under a low bridge, broke a balloon, 
negotiated a slalom, rode over a teetertotter, took a tongue depressor by mouth 
and dropped it into a container, and 
bounced over a.Jog in order to successfully 
complete the course. Points were sub
tracted for sub-par performances of each 
obstacle but could be made up by .beating 
the average time of 1:40. Most times
t
A man, a motorcycle and a tongue depressor
rally to a Carnival Challenge.______
were either under or only slightly above 
the standard, but I saw no one run a 
perfect field.
There wasnt a high degree of 
excitement generated by the contestthe 
riders all tended to be cautious and the 
only real speed was put out crossing the 
finish line, but the buggy races were 
history and most had probably seen the 
midway, so the fair weather and the 
glamour of the new event attracted quite a 
few people simply caught by the carnival 
atmosphere.
Photo by Greg Nickel
Sigma Nus first place booth design, a highly 
mechanized space monster
Photo by Frank Stein
^committee spent on construction. Just: 
pick some enormous number, he said. I 
remember,v though, that Wednesday night 
was a bad one. We stayed up through 
Thursday morning getting it to work. 
Dennis Sullivan explained the hours of 
effort involved in booth building. Its a 
challenge. We all like to present a 
sophisticated; booth, more than weve 
.done in the past. It involves our 
j engineering talent, our ingenuity."_____
by Tom Lang
Spring Carnival and the Sweepstakes 
Buggy Races have come and gone for, yet, 
another year. For those who worked Fe 
the races: the long tedious hours of push 
practice, the preparation of the buggy and 
the countless other tasks involved in the 
organization of this grand, exciting event, 
congratulations on a job well done. For 
those who watched the races, running from 
vantage point to vantage point, cheering 
their favorite, drinking up the excitement 
and nostalgia of the event, the only 
assurance that can be offered is that the 
same scene will once again be relived a year 
from now.
However, one facet of the total ex
perience of buggy is that it involves 
competition. In this sense, there are losers 
as well as winners. And in the end, the 
facts connected with the race are signifi
cantly important as they serve to preserve 
some of those memories.
At the end of Fridays preliminary 
races, six of the twenty-five entrants 
earned the right, by virtue of their run 
times, to compete in Saturdays races. Of 
these six finalists, the three slowest times: 
ATO A (2:30.3), Sigma Nu A 
(2:29.5), and Beta A (2:26.9), PKA A 
(2:26.2) and Phi Kappa Theta A 
(2:25.4.).
Nonetheless, Fridays races werent 
without some misfortune. In the first race, 
SAE ran a new buggy (a departure from 
their tradition of bikes) which turned in 4 
rather poor 3:00.1 time. Additionally, in 
the third heat, SAEs bike lost a front 
I wheel on the freeroll and the driver fell off. 
MPpi The commuter buggy (their first entry in 
continued on page 6
Kites, Relays, 
Eggs and Mud
by Steve Correll
The snow and rain that hampered con
struction of the midway last week also left 
the football and IM fields sloshy. But 
despite the cold and mud, an amiable 
crowd turned out Friday afternoon for the 
MDC picnic, kite flying and contests.
The first contest was a taut, closefought race among faculty for the CMU egg 
toss championship. Two man teams 
representing Chemistry, Chemical E, 
Physics, Modem Languages, Social 
Relations, Student Affairs, and Graduate 
Students battled to see who could throw 
(and catch) raw eggs the farthest.
The rules allowed each team only four 
eggs, and players carefully inspected each 
one for crack and flaws before com
mencing play. My yolk is light, one con
testant was heard to exclaim.
Thrower Bob Beater McCurdy and 
catcher Charles Sunnyside Williams 
established the stiff pace of the com 
petition early in the meet with a long, high 
throw, setting a mark that stood un
equalled until the Graduates team cracked 
it on a fine clutch play by catcher Vince 
Misitano. That tied the contest until the 
Social Relations catcher scrambled for a 
beautiful toss that his thrower laid far 
beyond the earlier mark. After a threeminute break, Graduates won a runoff 
against Activities for second place, and the 
contest was over.
In hope of furthering the embryonic 
knowledge of egg tossing strategy, the 
TARTAN askert the victors to describe 
continued on page 7_______________________

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2THE TARTAN-Tuesday. April 17, 1973
EDITORS NOTE
Two weeks before the end of the school year, the TARTAN has 
finally managed to embroil itself in controversy. One has only to read this 
weeks letters to the editor to see'that weve kindled the bad feelings of at 
least two of the most worthwhile activities on campus: Student Senate 
and Scotch n Soda.
Let me begin by saying that it was not our intention and never has 
been to deliberately give these activities bad press. We have always tried to 
urge cooperation between campus groups and / hope these bad feelings are 
soon forgotten. However, / would like to make dear that all activities are 
open to criticism and the TARTAN will not compromise its right to 
honest criticism any more than it expects anyone else to compromise their 
right to criticize the TA R TA N.
It may be true that weve emphasized the more ridiculous aspects of 
Student Senate activity rather than the work of the committees, but 
theres no arguing that a bulk of the meetings is devoted to the ridiculous. 
One has only to read the minutes to know that. Nobody in his right mind 
would suggest that Student Government be abandoned, byt it certainly 
wouldnt be a bad idea to try to reform it in some ways.
As for Sue Kleins review of the latest Sn S production, the TARTA N can do nothing but stand firmly-behind her. The only valid criticism 
of the review that / can see is a slight tendency towards rhetoric. Referring 
to the two plays as anemic presentations passing for theatre in the 
opening paragraph is pretty strong, but as a whole / consider the review to 
be an example of honest criticism by one of our best reviewers. As 
criticism, it relies very heavily on the critics standards and her personal 
opinions, but this should not surprise anyone. When there is a byline on a 
review, a reader should know immediately that what he reads is the 
opinion of that criticno one ever claims to be any kind of 'omniscient 
judge.  When the TARTAN assigns someone to review a show, it expects a 
good honest reaction on the part of the reviewer. There is no doubt in my 
mind that Sue Klein did just that and with no more rigid preconceived 
criteria for judgement than anyone else who saw it. If someone doesn t 
want to face the possibility of reading an unfavorable review then / 
suggest they stay away from newspapers and stick to publicity releases.
There is also some feeling that the review should have taken into 
account that Scotch TV' Soda is a student production and shouldnt have 
compared it to professional productions. My feeling is that there should 
be nothing sacred about the product of any campus organization if it is 
going to presented to the public. WRCT faces comparison with profes
sional operations every time a student turns on his radio. Activities Board 
is open to criticism every time it sponsers a show and does a less efficient job 
than the local professional promoters. The TARTAN is always being 
compared, or comparing itself\ to other papers . In fact, the News Editor 
often reminds me what the New York Times would or wouldn t do in a 
given situation. / do regret, to some extent, that Sue chose to emphasize 
a professional comparison rather than a comparison with other student 
shows, but Ill defend to my dying day her right to choose to do so. Its a 
tougn world and the fact that an appreciable number of people go see 
Scotch 7V Soda with expectation of seeing* a future 'Godspell or a 
'Pippin seems to me a good enough reason to review it on that level. 
Finally Id like to point out that the review was not, in fact, wholly 
negative. It did mention that the cast of the second show was 'hard 
working, eager to please' and in chorus, delightful to listen to. It also 
mentions the time, energy, and talent that go into a Scotch 7V' Soda 
production. The point of the criticism of Lord Have Mercy was not so 
much that it was bad, but that it wasnt fully realized and didnt com
pletely fulfill the critics expectations. So the reason the review didnt 
succeed as a slam is very simple- it didnt intend to be. / do think the 
review succeeds very well as a review. / consider it to be one of the better 
written reviews to appear in the TARTAN all semester, which is all the 
more impressive when one considers that it was written on a very strict 
deadline. Some fairly Important and knowledgeable people on this campus 
have also mentioned that it was well written. The review was certainly not 
the work of a  freshman critic writing her first review.  Susan N. Klein 
has been writing good reviews all year and will continue to do so. As a 
matter of record, she has recently been appointed to be the new Enter
tainment Editor.
In summary: to those who blatantly misinterpret,(i.e. Mark Fromms 
letter) please check your facts; to those who are in pain, forgive us but its 
a tough world; to those who wont let a critic criticize, don't bother to 
read the TARTAN; to Student Senate, well try to do better if you will. 
Now lets try to finish the semester.Stephen Saunders
RELEVENT ANNOUNCEMENTS
1. The final meeting of the TARTAN editorial board 
will take place on Thursday, April 19 at 4:30 pm at 
the office
I WONDFR THEY'LL PROVIDE REPARATIONS SINCE THEY" DECLARED 
AN END TO TWE WAR ON POVERTY?"
Letters:
Editor:
If the Lord really had mercy we would 
be spared the reviews of those like Susan 
Klein who are apparently unable to see the 
role of critic as anything short of 
omniscfent judge. If a given work does not 
conform to a preconceived set of 
criteria, the Kleins of the world begin 
fishing for pejorative phrases from their 
little well of critical cliches.
< The enthusiastic reception by Wed
nesday nights audience is in itself a re
buttal of Ms. Kleins condescending 
panning of Lord Have Mercy. What 
offends me is that some people might make 
the mistake of staying away because of 
something a critic said. Ironically, there 
is a song in Lord Have Mercy written 
just for people like Ms. Klein who take 
their personal opinions too seriously. Its 
the one about emptying the bucket and 
seeing whats left.
As for An Old Fashioned Walk, 
although I personally found it to be not as 
well acted as Lord Have Mercy, it was 
far from a waste of my time. The pro
duction, like the play itself, is provocative. 
The fact that audiences leave the play
puzzled by the mixture of tones is not, I 
think, necessarily a negative comment on 
the piece. Of course cripples dont dance in 
the narrow realm of Ms. Kleins reality! 
Personally, Ill take the imaginations of 
Fechtor and Deutch any day over the 
right mind of Ms. Klein with which she 
understands scripts or which enables her 
to know with such pompous certainty that 
music is non-existent and that lyrics are 
intolerable.
On behalf of all those who would ask a 
critic to serve as a guide through a work 
rather than a judge of it, and of those of us 
who happen to like puns, I urge all readers 
to de-Klein the TARTANs review of 
this years Scotch and Soda production.
Charles Psychos 
Modern Languages.
Editor:
To allow such a review as that of the & 
Scotch n Soda productions to be printed 
is in my opinion irresponsible journalism.
To be so destructive serves no purpose 
other than self-aggrandizement and shows a 
lack of editorial discretion.
Lynn Beckstrom 
Music
tartan
Editor in Chief...............Steve Saunders
Business Manager...............Aliee Bright
News Editor.........................Gary Singer
Features Editor .... Shelley Burhans
Special ditor...................Chris Infante
Assistant News Editor . . . Debbie Siegel 
News and Features Staff . . S, Breisch 
Gary Bronheim, Chris Brown 
Craig Collins, Steve Correll 
Sharon Curcio, Brandon Dula 
Anna Friedman 
Greg Fulton, Mike Hill 
Kathy Knobloch 
Thomas Lang, Joan McClusky 
Photography Editors .... Ed Levine
Elliot Arons
Photography Staff .... Henry Collin;
Ellen Eddy, Bruce Edelston 
Carl Grefenstette 
Nick Lardas Gr*g Nickel 
John Shettel, Frank Stein 
Kevin Scott, Ric Werme
Entertainment Editor Susan Klein
Entertainment Staff . . Terry Caywood 
Nonie Dempsey, Arnie Karr 
Paula Shubock, Hank Levy 
Steve Perkins .Susan Mayer 
Winton Snyder, Jay Corpus 
Doug Stone
Sports Editor ........................Jeff Enghind
Sports Staff.............................  -Dan Buis
Roger Geddes, David Girdany 
Glenn Campbell, D.R. Sullivan 
Bruce Hoffman, Eric Johnson 
Sybelle Mryczko, Dave List 
Greg Mason, Jim Sivak 
Political Cartoonist . . Jinyny Margulies
Layout................... Erica Gees
Copy Staff ...........................Mina Gerall
Cyndy Schmidt
Business Staff ....................Beth Bowers
Advertising Mjo^ger . . Dwayne Smalls
2. There will be a staff party on Friday night, April Th. Ed..oai Board o. brebru ,e ,r,e ,*.< ,o ),. o. w,tt,ho<d any copy *a. . con,*.,
27 also m the office. Let US celebrate the last day of ,0f publication. Puw.shed every Tuesday dur.ng the academic year at Ca#neg.e -Mellon
classes and send our graduating seniors on their way. nsv'van,i' 15213* Ed,tor*1 and Business offices are located in skibo 50._______ ____________ leiepnone (12) 682-4557 or extension 656.

---------------------------------------------------

NEWS COMMENT
THE TARTAN-Tuesday, April 17, 1973-Page 3
Last week the Carnegie -Mellon University Community was 
treated to a sampling of hard nose proffessional journalism when it 
was offered to them by the TARTAN. Although there has been (too) 
much writen on Sue Kleins review of Scotch TV Soda already, / have 
found a few comments (very few) which have not already been 
packed out or which have but not to my satisfaction.
Sues review, as / have said before on WRCT, was here own 
sincere opinion and was not written to be cruel or to test out her 
sadistic qualities on the poor theatrical group here at CMU. There 
are members of the TARTAN staff who would take any and all oppor
tunities to slam anyone or anything, yet Sue Klein is by no means a 
member of this group. Sue obviously disliked this years Scotch TV 
Soda production, and conveyed this message, rather forcefully, to her 
readers.
The content of the review, although not meant to be, succeeded 
*in being extremely pointed to the extreme of appearing vulger. There 
are times when Miss. Klein continues to grind out a complaint after 
the show has already suffered many forceful blows in the review. Her 
citing of personel members of the cast, was a little less than tactful. 
Her comparing of the second show, God Have Mercy, to a broadway production isnt quite fair. Yet, with all these faults, the review 
did not merit the popularity it received (for the reasons it received 
it). Some of the letters to the editor have been just as vulger and 
tactless as \heir writers claim Miss. Klein was in her review. Even the 
* president of Scotch TV' Sodas reply, which / respect for its intel
lectual, non-name calling, manner, decrees that the production is not 
Professional, and thus was unfairly reviewed. / agree with Mr. Sugg, 
to a point, but Lord Have Mercy does parallel the "Noah act by 
Bill Cosby and does strongly resemble the music from Pipin.
The second show was very entertaining and perfect for the col
lege production in which it appeared. If Sue Klein had reviewed it as 
such a production, the review would not have raised any hairs of a 
member of the cast. Yet Sue Klein made the sinful mistake of com
paring the shows to the *\professional" theatre world, the world that 
Scotch TV' Soda claims to be a member of when their productions 
receive favorable reviews, and thus should be burned at the stake for 
practising whitchcraft.
The TARTAN already gave Lord Have Mercy bad reviews.
Gary Singer 
News Editor
This Silent Spring:
"The UnCommitted
//
PERSONAL COMMENTARY:
I would like to comment on the general 
attitude of the CMU TARTAN in 
connection with reporting on the activities 
of Student Government in general and 
Student Senate in particular. It is a pitiful 
situation when the campus news service 
t continues to neglect those matters which 
are a vital part of the students life. I am 
referring of course to the neglect of 
reporting any committee reports or actions 
from Student Senate by the TARTAN. It is 
quite known among those who have
worked or watched Student Government 
that all positive action is produced by the 
personal involvement of Senators on 
various Senate and University committees, 
and that the floor of Senate is the place 
where these actions are presented to the 
general body and the campus news service. 
Indeed, if the reporters of the TARTAN 
would pay attention to the reports given 
by the committees they could learn about 
things like extra-curricular activities credit, 
status of proposals to charge students for 
overloads, installation of bus shelters, and 
other tangible activities that senators spend 
____________(Continued on Page 11)_______
'Letters:
Editor:
Theres something very powerful about 
a strong negative statement in print. Yours 
is almost pure, and it took a certain 
amount of chutzpah to blow everyones 
^-expectations and face the resultant bad 
vibrations. As a work of pop art and media 
manipulation, and as a provocative state
ment, I enjoyed your review. It raised the 
collective' campus blood pressure, and 
served to involve as few linear expressions 
do. I sincerely appreciate that.
As a piece of criticism, however, it fails 
on several levels. There is a long and valued 
^tradition of critical journalism as slam, a 
veritable art form of the Western insult, 
smear, lambast, barrage. You ignore most 
of its rules. As a critical exercise in 
devastation, your piece lacks all wit and 
sensitivity. It is hard to find a line in your 
article that George Bernard Shaw wOufd^ 
even have chuckled at.
As a matter of fact, I rather enjoyed 
Scotch n Soda this year. Of course, 1 
^didnt participate as audience under the
by Shelley Burhans 
Features Editor
Just as a language foreign to one is 
probably best learned by dropping into the 
country where its spoken, American 
history is probably best taught with folk 
music, not only because true folk music 
has a certain emotive ring but because it 
often1 smacks of truths more inalienable 
than those of a textbook. It seems to be 
able to impress on the soul through aural 
cavities what non-fiction textbooks only 
touch on mentally. As for fiction, (George 
Eliot recently stated in the American 
Journal) The more stories, plays and 
poems you read, the more likely you are to 
think of every person as an individual with 
quirks and inconsistencies of hisown, rather 
than as a member of this category and 
that.
The name of the vast game would seem 
to be as much communication as 
education.
Its a game no college has a corner on, 
but which an institution of higher learning 
(which is not so much its label as it is the 
individuals participating in it) has a re
sponsibility for continually qualifying and 
improving; piece by piece . . . pushing 
towards perfection, if you will. Lord 
knows, if some future technological inno
vation or callous use of it reduces this cast 
of millions to a population of one, or 
leaves all of us blithering idiots, whos 
gonna reckon with HIM about the mess? I 
mean,WHO, brothahs and sistahs, is going 
to create the biggest lie, about how the 
milk of human kindness got spilt?
It has long been a tenet of philosophers 
and sociologists, even democracies and
(Continued on Page 10)
pressure of being a freshman critic writing 
her first review. Though I agree with some 
of your comments, I found a lot of positive 
elemdits in the shows. They succeeded for 
me as entertainment if, not as art. I found 
An Old Fashioned Walk somewhat 
thought-provoking and moving. I parti
cularly appreciated the costuming, parts of 
the staging and music, Paul Szauters acting 
(he was fine in both shows), and the set 
design. I agree with your mixed reaction to 
Lord Have Mercy but I want to empha
size the hilarity of several of the scenes and 
the excellent acting by Szauter and Maggie 
Steward. She, as both singer and actress, 
stole the show on sheer ability; I would 
like to see her in a more challenging 
dramatic role.
The two things which y.ou somehow fail 
to mention in your article are wnat make 
Scotch n Soda so successful. One is the 
excellent troupe; they were delightful and 
together in both voice and movements. Ive 
never seen a Scotch n Soda cast sound or 
look so good, so fresh.
The second is the organization itself. 
The amount of work they put into their 
production, and the consistently high tech
nical quality they achieve, make Scotchn 
Soda a unique affair each year.
Mark Fro nun
Editor:
W.K. Fechtors play was 
written to appeal to the general American 
public, which is fine if thats what you 
want in life. Ms. Klein was simply trying to 
point out that fortunately not everyone 
fits in to the general American public slot. 
I would not expect most people to agree 
with her, just as I did not really expect 
Nixon to lose the election. But, none
theless, now that she has made her obser
vations they stand as a triumph to those of 
us who do not think its funny to see a 
shrink masturbating on stage.
F. ArouetEditor:
I was extremely saddened by Ms. Susan 
Kleins review of Scotch n Soda in last 
weeks TARTAN, not because of its 
criticisjn of our efforts this year, but 
because I feel that such a review as this one 
is incredibly misplaced, and, in this case, 
unjustified. Someone has missed the point 
here; 1 think the most imp5rtant con
sideration, namely what Scotch n Soda is, 
has been completely overlooked.
A Scotch n Soda production is not 
primarily an attempt at achieving an ultra
professional hit show. We make no claim to 
be anything more than we are. Like the 
TARTAN and WRCT, we strive for as 
much professionalism as we can muster, 
and I believe we have had some success in 
achieving it. But the constraint here is the 
same for us as it is for the TARTAN: we 
are students, and that is the whole name of 
the game. Our shows are first-time runs of 
original scripts (sometimes the first 
attempt of a writer or a director) - bringing 
that off at all is far from a small job. Why 
judge them in terms of a Hair, or a 
Godspell, or a Pippin (after all its re
writes)?
The most important consideration, 
though, is that Scotch n Soda is a club 
first, and a theater company second. Our 
purpose is to allow as many people as 
possible to work on something together, 
and in so doing, to try to communicate 
with each other in more than a trivial way. 
Our purpose is also to have fun, and to try 
and communicate some of the good 
feelings we develop to an audience. What, 
then, is the purpose of going out of ones 
way to stress similarities between our 
shows and other (often unrelated) things? 
What is the purpose of the digs at the 
people who have done nothing more than 
to try very hard?
My regrets are the following: many 
people on this campus have no other con
tact with Scotch n Soda than through the
have prevented us from even trying to 
communicate our good feelings to these 
people. For this reason, I think the article 
was misplaced. Secondly, the shows this 
year have been extremely well received by 
the audiences that saw them. I honestly 
believe we have achieved our goal of 
communicating good feelings. For this 
reason, I think the article was unjustified.
Jim Sugg 
President, Scotch 7T Soda
Editor:
The wild tremor that erupted 
Wednesday finally shook me on Thursday 
(by nature Im slow) and prompted this 
Scotch n Soda Revisited under the 
disguise of a letter.
While it lacked the zing of Fechtors 
play, An Old Fashioned Walk possessed 
at least substance. It seemed more like a 
drama with music (rather forced at that) 
and probably would have had a better 
reception had more time been spent on the 
script itself. The last song for example 
seemed thrown in as if Ms. Deutsch was 
not quite sure where to put it. Id be 
curious to see the play staged as a straight 
drama.
Perhaps the cast was too large, the stage 
too small, (problems a professional director 
could overcome) whichever was the case 
too much was going on and blocking was 
poor. For the most part I think Barbs play 
lacked a good cast though two perform
ances are worth noting. David Swanson as 
Gabriel (he and Romeo Lance would have 
a helluva night on the town) and Ken
tucky, the lusty old drunk, played by Paul 
Szauter brought high points to the 
production.
For any Scotch n Soda production one 
sets out for an evening of entertainment 
and Lord Have Mercy quenched that 
desire. It was completely entertaining 
though Fechtor quite noticeably made 
every effort to be so. The play was filled 
with one too many quips-was Stephen 
trying to think of every conceivable 
character, pun and dirty crack to make the 
audience laugh?
The most favorable quality aside from 
good casting was the music and Sophie 
seemed to be the only one who couldnt 
quite swing with it. But, that was it. The 
entire play was all surface and loaded with 
stereotypes that present little difficulty in 
evoking laughter.
I think both productions though they 
might have entertained lacked something 
and I kept waiting for itit never came.
Chnk Infiii'i

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, April 17, 1973
Film Festival: Take Four
by Shelley Burhans
I suppose I am involved in film because
1 am more comfortable articulating myself 
visually, through the medium of film, than 
verbally. I was surprised to discover how 
much 1 learned about myself from my first 
film. lust the fact that I would be moti
vated to make a film about a baseball sta
dium being torn down clarified, for me, my 
own state of mind and emotion at the time 
that I made it. 1 was really surprised to see, 
after 1 made it, the emotions the film eli
citedemotions I hadnt thought belonged 
to such a subject.
Thus was the reflection of Jim Oppenheimer, the CIT senior who has directed 
the film workshop for the past three years 
and coordinated the Fourth Annual CMU 
Film Festival of April 6th and 7th, Satur
day night-or Sunday morning, actually-at 
the close of the festival, when the projec
tors were shut off, the equipment put 
away, and Porter Hall 100 vacant of the 
previous two nights of packed audiences 
for the works of some 26 filmmakers.
The program ran smoothly, considering 
the number (23) and diversity of films, the 
amateurs equipment (Super 8 projector 
and tape recorder, for the most part) which 
required manual coordination, and the 
number of people necessary to manage the 
copious chores of such an operation. 
Though the opening night audience was 
kind of rowdy ... out to be entertained, 
in the words of one observer, first run 
technical difficulties were surprisingly rare. 
The second nights showing was flawless, 
deceptively understating to viewers of 
three hours the months of planning and 
publicity behind the success of the final 
production.
The non-competitive festivals only stip
ulation was that works submitted evi
dence a high regard for film as a creative 
medium. The introductory piece, pro
duced by Ralph Guggenheim, was fittingly 
light-hearted, a combination of CMU cam
pus, alphabet blocks and Mickey Mouse, 
highlighted by a chorus-line number per
formed by Easter Bunny to the tune of a 
double-time Souza march.
Second on the agenda was an untitled 
work by Scott Kenworthy, wherein he jux
taposed sensitive shots of flowers, sunsets 
and a decapitated chicken, creating an al
most sensual report of the drug experience. 
The soundtrack was a multi-aural work 
using such music as Strauss Zarathustra, 
2001, Pink Floyd and select Sounds of 
Environment. This filmmakers first ser
ious piece was commendable for sur
passing the colorwashes and optical effects 
that have become the cinematic shorthand
for high, trespassing into more concrete 
representations that were 
objective in their inclusion of negative and 
positive reality.
La Carta, the work of Adelfo Simmonds 
and Barbara Freeman, moved simply and 
with modest beauty through the dance 
from youth to maturity of a dweller in 
Spanish Harlem. Moderately paced, the 5XA 
minute films focal points alternated be
tween action and carefully approached fa
cial expression.
Gary Adkins Stonehedge displayed an 
appreciable use of technique. The title ade
quately denoted the films content, a well 
shot and fairly disciplined repetition of zoo 
creatures behind their bars, a bather vir
tually in her original costume . . . save for 
the crown of curlers on her head, churches, 
short hair, carousels returning the viewer to 
the opening image of a well-horsed stage
coach ... on a raft at sea. Whatre you 
going to do? and an extremely diverse yet 
cohesive choice of soundtrack music com
plemented the film. The composition in its 
entirety, reinforcing as it did themes of the 
cage and-cageless?-soul of man, was com
plimented in turn by an unhesitant ap
plause.
CMU alumni Ron and Don Patniks 
Song presented that most prevalent, neces
sary and taken-for-granted element on the 
planet, water. Sensitively alternated color, 
focus and technique created acute optical 
effects which were well coordinated with a 
multitude of aural frames, from Steve Mill
er Band selections to foghorns. A short but 
sweet vision.
Good things still come in small pack
ages. Jim Oppenheimer was victorious over 
the eerie tension of vasty technology, 
capturing it in Techology .The enchanting 
power of 200 ls Atmospheres was fitted 
to the literally Tech shots ... computer 
components, science hallways habited by a 
lone student in the dead of night ... an 
incisive choice and sequence of images. Sci
ence confounds creativity? It doesnt deny 
it to this CIT filmmaker.Next shown were 
three untitled works representing the com
bined efforts of Dennis Bolet and David 
Krasner. The first was a spoof on the ori
ginal romantic film, silent and dripping. 
Laras Theme rowed viewers through the 
passionate solitude of a 1970s clyck 
waiting for her armyman in a 1940s story, 
right up to the dock of his return. Where 
the door is slammed in his face ... Tres 
contemporaire, that.
The second was a chess game in the 
park-D^yow play? The poker-faced stranger 
of the film is invited to and does, bad
ly ... gradually moving towards apoplexy 
as his king is surrounded by a perfect circle 
of capturers. Our man loses and cant help 
but fall backward, clutch his throat, and
die. Cinemanaturally.
The third film was a crime intrigue. Our 
new man commits a series of varied crimes, 
and justice with dark shades on carries him 
away every crime. Down the same stairs, 
with the same expression ... Neatly 
done.]
Mark Frosts Baltic Avenue was 
clearly the film of a dramat. Its spectacle 
of paranoia involved a wide-eyed actress 
facing ghosts at every turn, in alternated 
Macbethy settings, stages strikingly like 
CMU (where the faceless character in black 
hits the scene, of course), and streams in 
woodsy ravines.
CMU undergrad Kathy Kuzas untitled 
work might have been called Xerox, as 
its character is swallowed by that modern 
machine and a few more of him are placed 
on earth. Some great shots as the original
runs from and continually runs into 
his ... selves, with white slacks, red -and 
white pinstripe shirts, and white slacks, red 
and white pinstripe shirts, and white ties at 
throats below identical faces. The film dis
played successful uses of some standard 
techniques, such as the original hitch
hiking and getting a ride, in which car the 
camera soon finds the driver . . . pinstripes, 
blond hair, and more of him in the back 
seat. All roar off into the cinematic sunset.
Trains, the work of AMSs Stan Edelstein, takes us from the empty, dingy 
heights of the Pgh. Penn Central Station to 
the crowded, neon lit Pgh. Airport. The 
footage was well selected, with shots of 
CLOSED ticket offices, a train bending 
around mountains, an amusement park 
(the thematic use of which was due, it 
seems, to its fitness rather than^its stan
dardness as a cinematic or literary image). 
All cohered in the film with the final im
ages of a space shot and a toy train circling 
its track.
Transformations, the work of Steve 
Fransis, was a startling visual contrast to 
the others, involving a sequence of metrical 
figures expertly executed. That the piece 
was in color particularly enhanced the vis
ual enjoyment of it.
Thus ended the first half of the film 
festival, and the opening night audience, 
blinking at the initially strange house 
-lights, moved like a stately herd of some
thing, cautiously shouldering their mass to 
the door. Most returned after the intermis
sion.
Opening the second half of the film 
festival, Ann Fritz Simple Geometries was 
just that, beginning with SPACE, moving 
through a neatly compact geometric se
quence, and returning to SPACE.
Scott Ken worthys second piece, Cooks 
Forest, he describes as having no real plot;
I was out to show the beauty of nature 
that sometimes can be overlooked in this 
rat race. An adequately gentle soundtrack 
backed a lively series of bucolic images: 
long-distance shots of forest, scattered 
houses, winter, spring, and .. water, close 
-up. A Good, Clean film.
CMU senior Tom Davis was Crusin With 
Those3-D DTs in the next film where he 
presented a series of chaotic images com
pactly ordered. The light-struck film, made 
with totally recycled light waves, Tom 
states, was edited to choice Miles Davis 
pieces. One lucid shot had the audience 
looking through the focui of the 
Mercedes-Benz hood symbol.
It was really CMU undergrads Carol 
Campbell and Ben Chase who made 
Madges Home Movies, a piece well 
matched with its script. The film was a 
strikingly unique creation, beginning with 
the image of a truncated, armless, tortured-visaged statue sitting high on the debris of 
a dump, shot against the skys horizon. The 
script, with its party sounds and the 
shrill, shallow words of an overbearing rev
eler, complimented the ensuing scenes of 
characters in sane dress pulling such 
things as wheelchairs from the junkpiles, 
followed by masqued figures in white 
coming to life in the debris of the dump. 
The revelers in the soundtrack are eventu
ally shown ... masqued and in white. The 
final shots-the head of a decapitated hobby 
horse, a discarded shoe, and a close-up of 
the horses eye, which seemed to be seeing 
-somehow called to mind one line of words 
spoken by the shrill reveler, Wed given 
them a chance to live.
Janis/Michael was another creation of 
the Patniks, working with Laurel Godfrey
Scott Ken worthy, creator of Cook's Forest
and Steve Rosenburgh. Should I let him 
in, knives, make-up and sex are prevalent.
The focus on a girl preparing extensively ft 
for love-making and her partners thoughts 
as he waits on the edge of the bed is 
mediated with high-contrast black 
-and-white in such visions as a boxing 
match ... sex performed in the center of 
ringside applause. Is it a rape? Athletics? 
Theatrics? A dream?
Stan Klein, a P&S freshman, created 
Dinner Award, a newspaper article with, a 
two-minute myriad of superimposed col
ors, ink splotches and ... a hand with a 
crayon coloring the faces in the photo
graph, which were somewhat reminiscent 
of Grant Woods American Gothic.
Barbara Freemans second festival piece 
was done with Robin Roark, also a CMU 
undergrad. Their work, entitled, Re, was 
basically an exposition on karate, clear ande % 
unique in its demonstration of karates re
lationship to fighting/defence, and to 
dance (a hard and determined one), the 
latter well coordinated with Beethovens 
aural dancing visions.
The Works In Progess of Ned Biddle and 
Audri Phillips was just that, and an inter
esting experiment in multi-media. The 
two strains of the piece involved a film- ) 
ing of the St. Thomas Mardi Gras with its 
city setting and costumed paraders, super
imposed against the larger frames from a 
rather poignant film of a childhood excur
sions young girl exploring the woods in 
fair weather, tagged by her younger 
brother who comes off naturally and 
cute as his minute frame and somewhat 
underdeveloped motor skills make the logsjr 
(she skips over) unscaleable mountains for 
him.
Roosevelt Sykes, produced by Dusty 
Nelson and Pat Bubba of the CMU grad
uate film program, is a solidly professional 
portrait of Sykes, filmed in his New Or
leans and produced at the (Pgh.) WQED 
studios, Unassumptive, the film didnt as
sail the impossible by any attempt to ex-*" 
plicate the life and essence of the artist, as 
so many professional film commentary 
creators do, but rather offered the man and 
his work by letting him speak for him
self ... or, I should say, sing.
The setting was alternated between ' 
Sykes home, stage performances, and a 
fishing excursion where he spoke and cast 
his line from the top of a concrete stair 
way to the water. Though most of Sykes 
story was told by Sykes, nearing the end of 
the film his wife enriched the picture of 
him with her words, and Sykes was shown 
singing with his young grandson, getting 
him into it ... the boy is later shown 
fishing. The film, which demonstrated 
good use of dramatic technique, was
continued on page 7m/ii

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTS
THE TARTANTuesday, ApriJ V t973-Page 5
CMU Explorers Club Spring planning
meeting for events this spring and next fall. 
| Old members as well as prospective new 
members are urged to attend. Meet the 
club's new officers. Tuesday, April 17, 
7:30 pm, room 56 Skibo.
The 'lost and found' operated by Security 
lhas accumulated many articles over the 
^school year. There are several watches, 
_ rings, books and items of clothing. If 
hou've lost an article on campus over the 
^school term, you may call Ext. 666 after 
3:30 PM to see if it's among those turnedin to Security.
3 mens watches 
1 ladies Sheffield watch
1 pocket watch
Class Rings: Dayton H.S. 70
* Penn Sate 59
U. of Buffalo 69
2 ladies rings
1 brown leather purse
2 sets of contact lenses
5 pairs of glasses
32 Books
Several Articles of clothing 
1 Portable Radio
*All those people who are withholding
WRCT Survey please fill them out and mail 
them immediately. They are desperately 
needed. Thank you.
COUNSELORS, over 20 for unique spaceage overnight summer camp in Penna. Able 
to instruct one of following: Watersafety, 
Lakefront Director, Waterskiing, Tennis, 
Chemistry, Ham Radio, Riflery, Basketball, 
or Pioneering. Write Camp Director 138 
Red Rambler Drive, Lafayette Hill, Pa. 
19444.
Paul Stookey of Peter, Paul and Mary fame
will be in Pittsburgh, at the Syria Mosque 
for a special benefit performance on Easter 
morning at 9 a.m. Proceeds will go for 
summer camp scholarships for inner city 
youth. Tickets may be purchased in 
advance for $3.30 at Gimbles, Hornes, 
Kaufmanns downtown, Opus One, The 
Free Peoples Store in Oakland and at 
Heads Together in Squirrel Hill.
As a timely public service, Mormon
students at local universities will sponsor 
the display of information they have 
gleaned from Ancient American records 
concerning the ancestral origin and 
historical development of the Indian 
Civilizationfrom as far back as 2000 years 
before Christ. For two days "Amazing 
Ancient America" will come alive in 
discussion and display in the main lobby of 
Skibo. There will be people to talk to, 
literature to read, and a film to see, from 
11:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. on Wednesday, 
April 18.
The Christian Community of the Tech
House invite interested students to part
icipate in a penitential service and mass 
Wednesday of Holy Week at 4:30. In an 
ecumenical service, the Tech House will 
combine a Jewish Seder with the Last 
Supper Commemoration. A Jewish student 
will conduct the Seder or Passover meal 
with the unblemished lamb served during a 
Scriptual recitaion. All are welcome to 
partake of an unusual religious experience 
at 5:15.
Jobs both on campus and with agencies
throughout the city of Pittsburgh are 
available for the summer under the College 
Work-Study Program. Students who are 
taking classes may work an average of 15 
hours/week, and those not taking classes 
may work 40 hours. The Work-Study Pro
gram, which was set up under the 
Economic Opportunity Act to create 
additional jobs for needy students, will run 
this summer from May 29 thru August 25. 
Positions are open on campus for library 
assistants, and in various departments for 
lab assistants, research assistants and 
Clerical work. Off campus jobs include 
tutorial, recreational, arts and crafts and 
clerical. Any student who has filed a 
Parents Confidential Statement for the 
coming academic year 1973-4 is eligible to 
apply. Applications are due in the 
Financial Aid Office no later than April 30,
1973.
"The Reel Thing", a free film festival will
be held Easter Monday, April 23, 1-4 pm, 
at Carnegie Lecutre Hall in Oakland. 
Sponsored by Carnegie Library of Pitts
burgh's Teenage Services Dept., the films 
will include such comedy classics as Laurel 
and Hardy's "The Music Box", a clip from 
W.C. Fields' "Never Give a Sucker an Even 
Break", and Buster Keaton's "The Railrodder". Some of the scheduled experi
mental films are "A Chairy Tale", an ani
mated film by Norman McLaren; "Clay: 
Origin of the Species", on Darwin's theory 
of evolution, accompanied by the Sammy 
Saltonstall Quartet; Sergeant", an 
animated Zagreb film; and "Un Bombe par 
Hasarde", an animated short about a 
stranger encountering a live bomb.
RUGS
for less
with your ID Card
lOOO 9x12 Rugs S15 S19 S29 S49
olso: 6x9's, 12x12 s, 12x15 $, etc. 
Also: Area Rugs (oriental;, shags, 
etc., etc.)
CHASES
5426 Walnut St., Shadytide
DAILY: 10:00 a m. - 8:00 p m 
SATURDAY. 10:00 a m . 5 00 p.m. 
?11-1025*
All clubs and organizations should turn in a
brief essay (no longer than 200 words) on 
their organization for the special Freshman 
Orientation issue no later than May 3. NO 
LATE COPY will be accepted. For more 
information contact the TARTAN or the 
Orientation Committee.
Faculty and staff who will attend
Commencement, on Monday, May 14, are 
requested to park in their regularly 
assigned areas, except in the case of the 
Skibo reserved lot. That lot will be reserved 
for honorary degree candidates, trustees, 
and other guests. Those who regularly park 
there are asked to use the lot adjoining 
Morewood Gardens.
All varsity athletes are cordially invited to
attend the All Sports Banquet on Monday, 
April 23, 6:00 p.m. Skibo Ballroom. RSVP 
by April 20, ext. 414, 249.
The Bryn Mawr-Vassar Book Store
announces a two-week Spring Sale. From 
Monday, April 16, through Saturday, April 
28, the entire stock of 20,000 books, in
cluding several hundred collector's items, 
will be half price. The book store, staffed 
by volunteers, raises money to send 
students to the two eastern liberal arts 
colleges. Located in Oakland at 4612 
Winthrop Street (off Craig), the shop is 
open Monday through Thursday from 10 
to 4, Wednesday nights 7 to 9, and 
Saturdays 10 to 1.
CLASSIFIED ADS
Professional typing of term papers, theses,
lecture materials, and cassette recordings. 
Reasonable price. 824-4667.
ROOMATE NEEDED to share furnished
apt. Low rent, own bedroom. Walk to 
CMU. Call Mark, 621-0917.
PERSONALS
Anna
Shall I compare thee to a brand new Les 
Paul?
Thou art more gentle and kind.
Money will buy a plush case and all*,
But an instrument is easy to find.
A G-minor seventh won't smile back at me,
I love you more than my guitar,
The song is for you, I hope that you see:
I love you no matter how far.
If I've a chance to hold you again.
If TWA will come through,
I'll buy a flower and kiss you and then 
I'll pray that you know it is true:
So long as men can breathe, and eyes 
can see,
I send my love, and this sonnet to thee.
ABORTION
INFORMATION 
ABORTION GUIDANCE
An Abortion can be arretted enihin 24 
hours end you c*n return home the erne dev you leave1
CALL TOLL FREE
(800)523-4436
A Non-Pro* O*enlitlon 
open 1 deyt  week
;
The Master's Degree 
in Statistics
Carnegie-Mel Ion University 
Stress on
Practical Application
THE PROBLEM
The demand for people with advanced degrees in statistics is increasing every 
year. While mathematics graduates are having difficulty with job placement 
and security, statisticians are finding more and better opportunities every 
day with industry and the federal government. Through the use of advanced 
technology we have been able to produce more specialized data than ever 
before; what we have not been able to produce is enough qualified, applied, 
statistical analysts to organize that data. Here at Carnegie Mellon University 
we are doing something about that. Our goal is to produce graduates with 
usable skills.
THE PROGRAM
At CMU, a Master's degree in statistics indicates that, in our opinion, the 
graduate is able to do applied statistics competently. Emphasis is placed 
upon operational knowledge and training. The program can be completed in 
one year; graduates of this program may be considered for admission to the 
Ph.D. program in statistics at Carnegie Mellon University.
THE COURSES
The only required courses are Statistical Methods I ft II. Recommended 
courses include Intermediate Applied Probability (stochastic processes). 
Statistical Decision Theory, Linear Statistical Models, and Time Series 
Analysis. The requirements are intended to permit wide flexibility, and the 
student is encouraged to take courses in allied fields and departments 
(computer science, operations research, economics, mathematics, biotech 
nology, and psychology).
THE SOLUTION
If you are interested in the Master's program in statistics and would like 
further information, write to Professor Joseph B Kadane, Head, Department 
of Statistics, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213.
Applications are still being accepted for the 1973-74 class
Althouyh there is no undergraduate major program in statistics, a 3 2 program is a feasible 
option for CMU and Chatham undergraduates Under this plan students apply for 
graduate admission in the Department of Statistics during their junior year. During their 
senior year they take courses as advised by the Statistics Department in preparation for 
the one-year Master's program.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6THE TARTAN-Tuesday, April 17, 1973
In Case You Missed It!
Changeoff at the top of the first hill
PKT Proves Itself
Photo by Carl Grefenstette
X- -STOSS- .V WWWWWWWI .-........
ine three finalists. Beta Theta Pi, Phi Kappa Alpha, Phi Kappa Theta 
at the starting line
Photo by Ed Levine
PIKA's "A" buggy crosses the finish line for a close second place.Photo by Elliot Arons
continued from page 1
the history of the Sweepstakes) and the 
CIA B buggy were disqualified before 
the races because they failed to make the 
required free roll. And in the sixth race, 
The Fringe buggy lost its hatch, causing 
some debate as to whether or not it should 
be disqualified.
On Saturday, blessed again with good 
weather, the races were scheduled for 9:00 
a.m. (a schedule change which caused some 
people to miss the races) and were over by 
10:00 a.m. The consolation race was won 
by Sigma Nu A with the time of 2:28.0 
followed by Beta B (2:29.9) and ATO 
A (2:30.4). The championship race
presented a close finish as Phi Kappa Theta 
A (2:23.0) edged PKA A (2:23.6), 
while Beta A (2:25.8) finished third.
In the Design Competition, Phi Kappa 
Thetas Streak and Snorpus captured 
first and second place, respectively, while 
Fringes new buggy, Flying Buttress, 
won third.
For Phi Kappa Theta it was a very good 
year. For some other entrants it was surely 
a disappointing year. For all of us it was a 
lot of fun, excitement and good memories. 
Goodbye Spring Carnival, goodbye Buggy 
Races.............at least until next year.
Photo by Frank StemNancy Novick and Frank Lee, chairmen of the Spring Carnival Arts&Crafts 
festival.TDP's time machine, the second place booth, sported flashing colored lights
Photo by Frank Stein

---------------------------------------------------

THE TAR TAN-Tuesday, April 17, 1973-Page 7
back, and their next girl must skip to the 
line and run back and then the next skips 
rope to the line and back and then the next 
runs backward to the line and back and 
then a pair of girls form a wheelbarrow and 
hand-walk to the line with an orange 
tucked under the chin and then ... Four 
teams-Kappa Alpha Theta, Delta Delta 
Delta, Kappa Kappa Gamma, and a team of 
independentscompeted in the wheel
barrow, medley and three-legged relays and 
in tug-of-war and endurance pyramid. The 
tri-Delts won.
Meanwhile, Frisbee addicts competed at 
distance throw and frisbee football, with 
prize frisbees for all winners. Some non
addicts competed, too; one looked at his 
prize and marvelled, Ive only thrown a 
frisbee about 6 times in my life ... oh 
well, I deserve to win at something. My 
buggy came in seventh by two seconds.
And throughout the afternoon, calm 
and patient kite flyers played with the 
winds. The greatest kite of them all was a 
one-man glider built by David Shemwell 
(who is not associated with MDC or its 
glider project). With the help of a few 
indefatiguable runners who pulled the tow 
ropes, Shemwell managed several times to 
race off the IM hill into the air, gliding for 
a second or two before touching ground 
again at the foot of the hill. He explained 
that building and flying the glider doesnt 
take a great deal of expertise, but that he 
needed better terrain and a bigger hill 
such as Flagstaff, where he has managed to 
glide 130 feetto fly properly. One guy 
has flown 2XA hours in a glider like this, 
Shemwell said, but added, ... as a 
general rule, you dont fly any higher 
than youre willing to fall.
Fireworks, DTD's third place booth, an absorbed 
reveler on the Midway and a seldom seen view 
of Carnivalpyramid at the girls relays
 by Greg Nickel
Frank Stein
Ric Werme
Tilm focuses Jnto Keality
continued from page 4
composed of choicely filmed segments and 
concise soundtrack edking, rendering a 
clear and natural picture of a man who is 
no foreigner to hardship, but believes in 
following his talent as well as in the 
golden rule, Do unto others..... 
With the case of Sykes career before us, 
the meaning of the final footage, where 
Sykes gets his fish and is shown hauling 
him up the steps, is not obscure.
Action in the girl's relay. 
Photo by Greg Nickel
The film itself was an appropriate con
clusion to a diverse and highly creative 
essay in the art of film. Essay is here 
used in the sense of its derivation from the 
French essayer: to try, to attempt ... to 
try out. Except for works such as the 
Patniks and Roosevelt Sykes, the films 
were primarily initial endeavors.
This review is not particularly critical 
for that reason. Naturally a number of 
films needed further editing; of course 
there were technical flaws; inevitably a few 
didnt make it as good films. Consider
ing, as well as their initial nature, the 
necessarily limited finances and equipment 
of amateurs ... the filmmakers not only 
managed to evidence a regard for film as a 
creative medium, but the films evidenced 
as well a startling visual sensitivity and a 
commendable imposition of order on that 
sensitivity.
The perspectives of contemporary reality(s), the scope of (often timeless) themes, 
and the originality of approach in dealing 
with these demonstrated in the three hour 
festival was remarkable. Particularly re
markable is the fact that the festival was 
entirely arranged and run by students, and 
the diversity of participants academic disci
plines seems noteworthy for the critics of 
campus apathy and polarization who 
see these as unredeemable pages in the un
written CMU catalog.
The Fourth Annual CMU Film Festival 
was enjoyable, artistic, refreshingly full of 
positive potential in those moments that 
hadnt yet arrived at polished profession
alism, and a lesson for the lazy.
Theyre All
Cracking Up
) continued from page 1
how they trained and practiced for the big 
meet. Champions Jim Lang and Tony 
Cresswell of Social Relations said the 
factors contributing to their success were 
basically, finesse, clean living, and 
prayer. They said that the clean living had 
to be carried on for at least three hours 
preceding the match. They described their 
practice routine as the first three eggs, 
and stressed the importance of a catcher 
with soft hands from doing dishes^
Runners-up Vince Misitano (GSIA) and 
Dennis Brandi (Physics) emphasized 
climate, explaining that they practiced 
from 4:01 to 4:07 a.m. in the 360 machine 
room one morning because the environ
ment there closely approximates that of 
^ this field. Both shivered momentarily.
Misitano said thoughtfully that he had 
calculated the optimum angle of throw to 
49.5 degrees, due to the rarefied air of 
Pittsburgh. Noting that both Misitano and 
Brandi have a good deal of experience with i 
Student Government, the TARTAN asked 
if they felt this accounted for their egg 
tossing skill. In Senate, you do get a lot of 
experience throwing gooey stuff around, 
reflected Misitano.
Buggy Judges 
Photo by Elliot Arons
After the egg toss came the girls relays. 
The first girl must hop to the line and run
Bob McCurdy prepares a tossed egg.Photo by Greg Nickel
, III cMm 1 WmmtBmemm

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8THE TARTAN-Tuesday, April 17, 1973
Problems Anyone?
by Dave Bush
Consider the sequence of numbers 
which begins 0, 1, 10, 2, 100, 11, 1000, 3, 
20,... How many elements of this list 
have the same numerical value as the num
ber denoting their position in the list? (For 
example, 0 has position number 1,11 has 
position number 6, etc.)
ANSWER TO THE PROBLEM TWO 
WEEKS AGO: The maximum number of 
distinct points that can be chosen from a 
two-dimensional lattice such that no line
segment with endpoints on any two of 
these four points contains other points of 
the lattice on it, is 4. For any such arrange
ment of 4 points, it can be shown that no 
other point can be chosen which has no 
lattice points between itself and all 4 
other points. For example, any 4 points 
which comprise the vertices of a unit 
square satisfy the criterion of the problem, 
yet a 5th point cannot be found which 
has an unblocked view of each of the 4 
points. The answer to the problem is there
fore 5. For n-dimensionallattices, 2 npoints 
can be chosen which meet the criterion of 
the problem, but 2 n +1 cannot.
Daube: Civil Disobedience
Gordon Weaver, the last in the visiting author series, read from his 
works on Tuesday. (Last week's TARTAN incorrectly reported 
that Frank Herbert was the final speaker in the series.
Photo by Henry Collins
Full Time Filmers
by Kathy Knoblach
Believe it or not, there is a graduate 
film program at CMU. WQED and the CMU 
Drama Dept, collaborate to train individ
uals at the graduate level who wish to pur
sue a career in television and film.
Applicants for the graduate film pro
gram are selected according to their extent 
of experience, ability in the area of inter
est, promise of growth, and potential con
tribution to a production team.
Participants in the program work for an 
MFA in television and film through what 
was called by one student an apprentice
ship at WQED, where they learn from 
professionalism as they work on assigned 
projects for and at the television station. 
Specific job assignments continue for the 
first semester of the two-year program 
These and courses are chosen, with the help 
of an advisor, to relate to the students area 
of specialization and primary interest.
This on-the-job training does not follow 
the usual program of graduate study. In
stead of assigned courses that meet on a 
regular weekly basis, a non-traditional 
sequence of study and training is developed
so that subjects are covered in large spans 
of time. These are scheduled when students 
are not involved in projects at WQED.
In the last semester of study, Masters 
candidates undertake a joint Masters pro
ject as a production team, which is aimed 
at an understanding and competence in all 
phases of an independent production ex
cept acting. Each student contributes to a 
producing unit in at least one of the fol
lowing areas of specialization: Filming and 
Editing, Directing, Writing, and Production 
and Administration. The final project can 
take the form of a television work or a film 
of about one hour in length.
The program is based on practicality, 
with opportunities to investigate theories 
and aesthetics. Emphasis is on quality, and. 
the MFA in television and film is granted 
only to those candidates who demonstrate 
quality work. The student is able to work 
with talented professionals and become 
familiar with modern, professional equip
ment.
The demands of this CMU MFA pro
gram are full-time, since the goal i& to 
learn and compete on a professional level, 
and do well enough to make a 
living.
Attention!! Upperclassmen!
We Need 150
OF YOU TO HELP US WITH 
FRESHMAN ORIENTATION 1973,
Come to the Meeting  Wed., April 18 
4:30 P.M.  Wherrett Room
Additional Information available at Skibo Info Desk
by Sharon Curcio
The lecture Civil Disobedience in 
Jewish Law and Tradition presented by 
Dr. David Daube, a law professor from the 
University of California at Berkeley, commorated the twenty-fifth anniversary of 
the Declaration of Human rights in the 
Wherrett Room on April 10. An interna
tionally knowa Judaic authority, Dr. 
Daube has been associated with the univer
sities of Edinborough, Munich, and Paris as 
well as the Hebrew Union University.
Defining civil disobedience as conduct 
which is illegal or at least contrary to 
deeply rooted customs and societal convic
tions, Dr. Daube explained that a higher 
cause orders civil disobedience and such 
disobedient acts entrench the commitment 
to a supralegal cuase. Civil disobedience 
should be non-violent because non-violence 
destroys. Contradicting the societal tenet 
that the civilly disobedient must accept the 
consequential punishment of that act, Dr. 
Dr. Daube believes that the promoters of 
this tenet are interested only in the submis
sion of the disobedient to societal law. If 
one intends to demonstrate a principle 
through non-violent protest, then a justif
iable surrender occurs after the point is 
made; the non-violent nature of civil dis
obedience in itself indicates a respect for 
the system it reproaches. However civil dis
obedience will not be far reaching if it 
intends to change the base of a system. As 
Dr. Daube contends, Violence supple
ments non-violenceno slave class ever 
achieved freedom without a degree of vio
lence.
Three chapters from the Book of Daniel 
illustrate the evolution of civil dis
obedience in Jewish History and how a 
persecuted religious minority in a hostile 
world refrained from violence for the 
higher cause. When the court minister 
forces Daniel and the three young men to 
eat a forbidden food, the four negotiate 
their unwillingness or low key civil dis
obedience and eat under pressure. The next 
trial results in salvation for the civilly 
disobedient when the four refuse to 
worship a false idol. Neither the furnace 
nor the Lions Den can destroy lives 
committed to a higher cause. The author 
of the Book of Daniel advocates the non
violent method as preparation for the end 
of the world with courtesy replacing illnatured resistance. Deeply convicted to 
their pessimistic faith, the people addressed 
in this literal apocalypse knew when the 
world would end. Thus all actions were 
futile and unnecessary.
The fable, a device of non-violent re
sistance, functioned as a concealed 
communication in oppressed groups who
could not openly express their sentiments, ft
Aesop, a former slave himself, probably
collected his easily remembered tales of 
oral resistance in slave camps; Uncle Remus 
tales from the ante-bellum South were also 
an art form of the oppressed. Fables pro
vided the social commentary for people 
whose oppressed state had little hope of 
change by personifying something non
human to release their tensions. One 1
biblical fable speaks of a donkey who by 
refusing to move saves his masters fife. 
However, the master, unaware of the 
danger, beats the animal. This illustrates 
how an act of civil disobedience often 
protects the power against which it rebels. 
Citing a modern example of social con
sciousness, Dr. Daube mentioned that the 
Quakers, who absolutely did not tolerate 
war, in a manner similar to that of the 
donkeys, do not demolish but save the 
power they disobey with disobedience.New Director of Research
Carnegie-Mellon University President 
Richard M. Cyert has appointed a director  
of research for the University.
Named to the newly created post was 
Professor Harold W. Paxton, formerly head 
of the department of metallurgy and 
materials science at CMU. The appoint
ment becomes effective July 1.
Professor Paxton currently is Director 
of Materials Research for the National 
Science Foundation in Washington, D.C. % 
He was named to the post when the 
Division was created in September 1971.
In his new position at Carnegie-Mellon,
Dr. Paxtons principal duties will include 
assisting the faculty in obtaining research 
funds for self-generated projects or broader 
undertakings which may cross existing 
administrative boundaries; working closely 
with the Division of Sponsored Research to 
increase the involvement of faculty 
members in this area and to increase the 
governmental and private contracts 
handled by the division, and acting as a 
reference source for information on 
research funding.
Dr. Paxton will also serve as a professor 
of metallurgy and materials science.
A native of England, Dr. Paxton earned , 
his B.S. and M.S. degrees at the University 
of Manchester and his Ph.D. at the 
University of Birmingham.
Professor Paxton joined the CarnegieMellon staff in 1953 and in 1960 won the 
Bradley Stoughton Award for Young 
Teachers of Metallurgy, in 1969, he was 
honored by the American Society of 
Metals (ASM) for significant con
tributions to the metallurgical field.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, April 17, 1973-Page 9
Computers who Spell A Week in the Life
of the Kiltie Band
Two researchers who have studied 
thought processes used in spelling have un
covered information that may lead to 
better ways of teaching children to spell.
Dr. Herbert A. Simon, Richard King 
Mellon Professor of Psychology and com
puter science at Carnegie-Mellon 
University, and his wife, Dorothea Simon, 
researcher with the University of Pitts
burghs Learning Research and Develop
ment Center, focused their study on 
fourth-grade children, building computer 
models to simulate the information 
processes they use to spell.
The Simons distinguished several ways 
in which phonemic, or sound, information 
is used in English spelling, then used the 
computer to determine which methods 
produces the best results.
One thing we found in our study, Dr. 
Simon said, was that even if you give a 
child quite sophisticated rules about 
spelling, the rules will not enable him to 
spell as well as children already know how 
to spell. The mistakes children make are 
seldom of a kind that would be corrected 
by rules.
From the performance of the 
computer spelling program, you can prove 
very conclusively that any number of rules 
will not regularize English spelling.
In fact, extensive data show that if a 
child spelled entirely by rules, he would 
spell only 50 per cent of common words 
correctly. A fourth-grader can already do 
that, the professor said.
We did find, however, that it would be 
desirable for the child to know that there 
are a number of optional ways of spelling a 
certain sound, he added. Then when he 
tries to get a spelling, writes it down and it 
doesnt look right, he knows alternatives to 
try.
The key to this trial-and-error method is 
that the child must be able to recognize a 
correct spelling when he sees it.
The main thing we learned from our 
study is the importance of visual infor
mation in spelling, especially information 
about the middle portions of words, pr.
Photo by Carl Grefenstette
Simon noted.
When people read, he explained, 
they generally use the information from 
the ends of words as the recognition cues, 
and hence dont learn the middle portions 
in detail. You can cover up the middle of a 
word and still recognize it in most cases.
moue
hiOMifaito MCUuJ Got
Formerly Voyageur Boots
"HIKER II" 6206  Full grain 
Natural Rough-Out leather upper, 
fully leather lined, padded tongue 
and ankle, stretch scree top.
Du -Mountain >ail Shop
SMysxli J687 170& Prttsburih 343 9966
Arbys in Oakland announces theirAPRIL SPECIAL:
Now it doesnt cost a whole bunch to feed a whole bunch*
5 Arbys Roast Beef 0,1 fpr 
Sandwiches
5 Crispy French Fries
5 200 Beverages
Arbys. The 4 hour Sandwich is only 
5 minutes away.
Copyright 1971 Marketing & Media
All together, SAVE *1.70
3417 Forbes Avenue 
Oakland
by Debbie Siegel
Come travel with me and 110 others on 
the Kiltie Bands fifth concert tour con
cluding with an extravaganza at Carnegie 
Hall in New York City. In spite of the 
pouring rain on Tuesday morning the third, 
band members enthusiastically loaded the 
three appropriately named buses. 
Depending on where your interest lies, one 
has the choice of the hospital, couples, or 
gross bus.
The first stop was at Shippensburg, 
Pennsylvania where we played an assembly 
program at the high school and gave an 
evening concert at Shippensburg State 
College. From there we proceeded to Red 
Lion on Wednesday morning and Berwick 
in Pennsylvania on Thursday, performing 
for large audiences at their high schools.
Inn and began taking over the elevators in 
an effort to reach our temporary rooms for 
our stay. Needless to say, the band made 
quite an impact on the Hotel and treated 
the other guests to the sounds of fine 
practicing on numerous instruments. Many 
band members had some place they wanted 
to go. The most popular of these sites were 
Mannys and Jardinellis music stores, 
Broadway plays, taking the Staten Island 
Ferry (try 2:00 a.m.) and porno flicks for 
four dollars. At night, there was a whole 
crowd at Mama Leonis which has 
apparently become the traditional spot on 
Saturday night.
On Sunday morning, individuals 
staggered into the ballroom in various 
conditions for a person check and rehearsal 
with Paul Draper who was dancing the Tap
The concerts were well received and 
assembly programs provided an oppor
tunity for ensembles as the jazz band, brass 
quintet, and sunrise trombone trio to 
perform. To aid the band in adapting to 
various new tempos, Dr. Richard Strange, 
conductor of the band appointed different 
seniors to conduct March For A Festival 
which in Carnegie Hall would be conducted 
by the composer, Edward Madden.
At Shippensburg, Dr. Strange called 
upon an old friend who was a solo cornetist with the U.S. Marine Band some 
years ago to lead the circus march. Rolling 
Thunder. There is a fierce trombone part 
and we had been warned in advance that 
the tempo might fly. As a result, the 
trombones became overprepared and 
played at a speedier tempo than the con
ductor gave us. He promised to tell all his 
friends in the Marines about the band. At 
these stopovers, home hospitality was 
provided and typical conversation was 
carried on about the sumptuous meals that 
hosts prepared.
After playing for two short assemblies 
at Randolph High School in New Jersey, 
we left to set up our equipment for the 
concert at Morristown County College in 
New Jersey. Another bus had already 
arrived before us. Lester Flatt of Beverly 
Hillbillies theme fame was giving an after
noon concert. While we were waiting to set 
up stage, we were treated to hearing his 
performance. Most of us agreed that it was 
pleasant to be in the audience after per
forming in a concentrated time period. By 
the end of our Friday night concert, 
everyone was psyched to arrive in New 
York and for some like me, make their 
debut at Carnegie HalL,
Around 10:30 a.m. on Saturday 
morning we bombarded into the Holiday
Dance Concerto by Gould. Finally, 
everyone did arrive in some form or 
another and once they gained back some 
control, there was a mood of anticipation 
and nerves.
KILTIE-The sign read outside Carnegie 
Hall as the buses rode around missing the 
street which was to lead them to the back 
exit. Once we spaced ourselves on the 
gigantic stage, it was time to warm up the 
horns. The acoustics are amazing in that 
every person can hear his own part which 
meshes with others and creates one unified 
sound. Most members of the band were 
quite excited about the quality of the 
performance.
Irving Kane, the composer of Fourth 
Stream, a rock piece featuring harpsichord, 
brass solos, baroque trumpets, and Moog 
synthesizer, was to hear his piece per
formed for the first time by a group of our 
size. Mr. Kanes reaction to the inter
pretation was extremely enthusiastic.
Paul Draper received a standing ovation 
with the Tap Dance Concerto. Morton 
Gould, the composer who originally scored 
the piece for orchestra, has been known to 
say to Dr. Strange that it could never be 
played by a band. Dr. Strange adapted the 
parts for a small band and disproved Mr. 
Goulds statement.
Due recognition was given to Mr. Philip 
Catelinet for the New York premier of 
Concertino For Five. President Cyert also 
attended and gave a message about CMUs 
stress on professional excellence.
Really bring out those forzandos like I 
know this band can, explained Edward 
Madden, composer, before his dynamic 
March For A Festival was recorded. 
Semper Fidelis by John Philip Sousa con
cluded the scheduled program with the 
band standing and filtering vibrations 
through the hall.
The reaction of Dr. Strange was ecstatic. 
There were no noticeable mistakes and 
solos were played excellently. A trom
bonist from the Scots Guard compared the 
Kiltie Band to the quality of the orchestra 
that plays for the queen. The concert was a 
climax to a tour that provided the oppor
tunity for a series of sensitive performances 
and experiences that makes the band a 
unique and ^hesive group.

---------------------------------------------------

/Editors note: the following are the results of the film opinion poh 
run in the TARTAN of March 13. The poll is here duplicated with the 
/ esponses in brackets. Considering the large number of comments
the TARTAN has made an effort to choose those which best represent 
attitudes expressed in the bulk. ]
1. Have you taken film courses at C-MU?
[yes 12 no 42]
2. If so,which?
Film Arts [2] Film and Literature [6]
Cinema and Animation [3] Design I [1 ]
Multi-Media Workshop [1]
3. How would you evaluate the courses you took in terms of their 
professional nature?
very professional 1 2 3 4 5 unprofessional 
[2 2 4 1 1]
4. Are you interested in having a film major/minor program at C-MU?
[yes 35 no 1 7]
5. Had a film program existed at C-MU when you applied, would it have 
enhanced your interest in the school?
[yes 14 no 17]
6. If interested in a film program at C-MU, do you think it should have an 
interdisciplinary nature?
[yes 33 no 5]
7. If interested, what is your primary area of interest?
Film Making [22] Film Criticism [11 ] Script Writing [8]
Other: Animation [2]
8. Do you consider the lack of a more comprehensive film program to be a 
detriment to the structure of C-MU education?
very much 1 2 3 4 5 not at all 
11 10
BREAKDOWN OF RESPONSES BY SCHOOL
AMS2 CIT-7 FA-10 H&SS-20 MIS-10
School not listed5
COMMENTS:
Since film is such a large part of our world today, / feel that this type of 
program is highly justified... it must include all aspects of film. It should 
then be possible for the individual student to choose a specialty (i.e. 
Script Writing). A Iecture-workshop approach might work, particularly 
with cross-discussions between workshops. -M/S-Soph.
... I think (film criticism) is too narrow a major. Possibly a media major 
would be valuable.  CFA-Fresh.
"/ think if enough student interest is shown, more courses dealing with 
film should be offered. For myself, however, the film courses offered by 
the English and History Departments seem inadequate to satisfy the 
majority of students who have a minor interest in film. -H&SS-Sr.
"/ am much more interested in the plays and theatre than in movies.  
-MIS-Sr.
CFA in general should be more interdisciplinary.  H&SS-Fresh.
"Since film is one of the most modem forms of communications as both 
information and art form, and considering this school to be part of the 
modern world... it is absurd to teach "contemporary novel" and not 
film, to me ignoring one of the most vital aspects of our culture. 
-P&S-Soph., H&SS-Jr.
Film Poll Results
socialists, come to think of it, that greater 
goods are aborted by lesser desires. It 
would have been good if Hitler had heard 
and understood the line, The need is for 
rulers who dare, despite socialism* and 
democracy, to enjoy their desire for 
magnificent beauty, to recognize in this 
personal desire the public good, and then 
act.
CMU is an Aryan, in a manner of 
speaking, among American Universities. Its 
reputation is for some of the most highly 
qualified faculties in the country, stim
ulating programs and motivated students. 
Just to look at the roster of noteworthy 
names, and at the magnitude of research, 
creation and accomplishment connected 
with this university in the past, and even in 
the present times of abortive finances and 
slashed (non-tenured) faculties ... is to see 
the real and positive potential of will thats 
dedicated to education.
CMU also has one of the highest suicide 
rates of any American university. As a 
community in which the members are 
ideally selected for a demonstrated dis
tinctiveness of intelligence, individualism 
and creativity and the ability to deal with 
its necessary autonomy, this is not difficult 
to believe. Distinction, like justice and art, 
can have a much-to-be-avoided price. 
Considering contemporary economic 
needs. . . perhaps the humanities and 
social sciences can economize, here.
One avenue to economy of this sort was 
definitiely spotlighted in the results of the 
recent film poll. Responses were favorable 
in a number of ways, not all of them 
obvious in the published results.
Of the responses, which represented all 
four undergraduate schools, some of the 
most positive were from MIS students (not,
I think, a phenomenon to any with a fair 
idea of human nature). The TARTAN 
received more responses and in better time 
than with any of the other polls conducted 
this year. Blatantly negative comments 
were limited to two (in fifty-four), though 
I silently add another. The obvious two 
were also fairly obvious in nature, one a 
personal difference with a professor and 
another a total ignorance of the facts of 
the issue as they stand (it came out a bit 
like misplaced bitterness). The third would 
perhaps have been the most enlightening of 
comments printed with the results, but 
after much consideration we found it too 
doubtful as a students creation. The
responses were positive to an almost
incredible degree, though notable in their
content was a frequent confusion and
juxtaposition of this issue with others.
That students of such diverse ages 
(Fr.-Grad.) and interests saw this issue as a 
fulcrum point for others as well as ex
pressed common interest in the medium of 
film would seem to indicate convergent 
dissents . . . perhaps needs could even be 
slipped in, here.
Most students of all schools recog
nized film as a vital instrument of com
munication, as well as such a programs 
need to be interdisciplinary.
The idea that communication 
essentially stems from some need to 
express which no major field has a 
corner on is reinforced, it seems, by the 
diversity of students who responded. MIS 
figures matched CFAs; H&SSs equaled 
the sum of both, clearly showing the 
schools middle ground ... fulcrum 
(potential), if you will, in a university with 
diverse, sometimes dichotomous, creative 
tensions.
Talking with students extensively about 
film and other concerns, many expressed 
what seems to be, rather than the apathy 
or narrowness it is so often labeled by its 
critics, an almost pathetic confusion and
Silent
ct itinued from page 3
Spring
feeling that progress in the true interest of 
the student is a dead-end at CMU. The 
students who responded to this poll, 
though the appalling inarticulacy of many 
bespoke yet a finer definition of their con
fusion, had a strikingly comprehensive and 
positive view of the issue. 1 am reminded, 
in finishing the grub-work of compiling 
the poll at 4 a.m., of the words of one 
leader in the educational reform movement 
in the 60s, You have to start where the 
learner is.
To the extent that the establishment 
depends on the inarticulacy of the 
governed, good writing is inherently sub
versive. (J. Mitchell Morse, The Irrele
vant English Teacher). This would seem 
to be one of the greater social ramifications 
of academic freedom. And to the extent 
that responsible communication depends 
on the intellectual growth of the in
dividualthat growth beyond the basic one 
of intelligence through fundamental 
knowledge and skills of articulationthe 
Fall course schedule that appeared this 
spring is inherently subversive.
The startling visual sensitivity and 
masterful imposition of order on it by 
many of the film festival works was . . . 
remarkable, even to a layman such as I 
certainly am. Putting this, and the fact of 
overflowing audiences both nights with the 
enthusiasm expressed in poll responses, I 
find my own interest in the issue of 
communications strongly reinforced ... I 
find myself wishing I had not been in an 
editorial position, that I might have added 
my comments. My emphasis would 
probably have been 1) the relative absurd
ity of student silence (54 is fair considering 
other CMU polls, foul considering CMUs 
4,000-odd students .. . gleaning opinions 
around here often calls for a dentist with a 
psych degree) 2) The absurdity of there 
not being a full-fledged program, con
sidering films viability and acute relevance 
as a creative art form and as a teacher 
(such as good literature is), as well as the 
availability of equipment, studios and 
demonstrably qualified teachers 3) the 
somewhat undigestible fact that there are 
now ... no film courses at all?
In the privileged context of an elite 
university that I have transferred into by 
the grace of luck and financial aid, varyingly spurred and discouraged by those far 
beyond my match academically and intel
lectually, I am also sometimes irritated by 
a selfish myopia on the part of some which 
I cannot gear myself to accept as being
necessary to the mechanics of education. 
One of the two better teachers I have had 
this year is an elderly faculty member of 
the English department, a man who quietly 
and totally accepts the magnitudinal 
responsibility inherent in academic
freedom, who indiscriminately devotes his 
time and concern to his students (rather 
than his profession) to an extent to match 
the best of true teachers. I havent noticed 
him jotting down extra hours or energy 
expenditures for overtime.
Any student position involving ex
tensive contact with students and student 
concerns indiginously involves a somewhat 
greater-than-average contact, as well, with 
staff and administrators. My personal ex
perience has been that these have been 
well-matched to the reputation of the uni
versity. Too, they have been sensitive, 
callous, humble, conceited, coldly brilliant, 
warmly intellectual, concerned, selfish . . . 
as diverse in character and capacity as 
students. Human, I guess.
And some of those individuals in the 
higher echelons have, in those inevitable 
politically exigent moments, revealed 
themselves to be capable of lying; others of
using a public medium, such as a news
paper, for their own (potentially beneficial 
but unfortunately confined to the 
personal) ends or interests.
Just like in the real world.
Academic freedom? Or academic 
anarchy.
Lets put the humanities back into 
H&SS . . . and the finances back into F.A. 
and the intellectual curiosity back into 
studentship and the constructiveness back 
into criticism...........
Words are cheap. Credibility for some 
Admissions Offices is going, in the future,
to be as hard to come by as dollars from 
D.C. are now.
Another year of events. Activities. Stu
dent Governments. National Gutteralments. WRCT. Film Festival. Tartan. 
54/4,000.
That it took the Scotch n Soda review 
to raise the dead on this campus (witness 
Letters to the Editor) this spring speaks 
as poorly for the divided re-born as it 
does for any literary irresponsibility 
involved.
Lets get it together, CMU.

---------------------------------------------------

Interview
L/V Taylor: "I Could Play All Night'
/
Q: When did you get into music?
A: I got into music a long time ago. Ive 
always just sort of grown up with it. Its 
like stepping into a pair of pants. It just 
came right along.
Q: Has there been any one particular 
factor which influenced your career?
A: Gosh, you know thats tough to say. 
Yea, unbelievable luck, Ive been very very 
lucky.
Q: Could you give us an example?
A: Im just lucky because there are 
some people who like to hear me work.
Q: Who are some other musicians that 
have influenced your style?
A: I think the greatest influence on me 
has sort of been a combination of things. 
That show tune stuff-The Rogers and 
Hammerstein type which I really do like 
and thery Ray Charles whom I love more
 than anybody else.
Q: Youre really into folk music. How 
come you dont do any blues?
A: Yea, I dont do one, four, five 
onesI meaji straight blues. But, 
Hallelujah I Love You So works on a 
one, four, five change with this and that a 
little augmented-It basically works around 
the blues. I also io Six Days on the
Road which works around those changes. 
I dont do Stormy Monday because 
there are a lot people who do it much 
better than I do.
Q: Where do you think modern music is 
going today? In your show, there is bluegrass, folk influence, and as you say the 
Ray Charles and show tunes influence. Do 
you think its going in one direction or 
splitting off?
A: Theres just room for people if 
theyre good. I dont think society has an 
influence^ it molds things, country music 
can be up one minute and down the next. 
But, I feel that if youre good, you just sort 
of hang in there. It comes around.
 Q: Do you have any future plans?
A: Im going to finish up an album. I 
was going to say I was going to go home 
and go to sleep. But, Im going to finish up 
an album and later on this summer perhaps 
do a fairly extended tour. My third album 
has been in the works now for a long time 
and its just getting finished up now.
Q: Are you on tour right now?
A: No, I live outside of Boston and I 
flew down for the show. Im going back 
tomorrow and I have a job on Sunday.
Q: How long has Walter been playing
with you?
A: Walter-three years? He knows its 
been three years and so do I. You were 
here at CMU three years ago. Walter and I 
had just started working.
Q: Are you surprised at your popu
larity?
A: Yea, I am.
Q: How do you manage to stay such a 
normal person through your increased 
popularity?
A: I just am what I am. Its normal, not 
normal. I just do the best job I can.
Q: Is there anything youd like to do 
besides music?
A: Yeathere are a lot of things besides 
music that I do, enjoy doing. Well, I love to 
work on cars. As a matter of fact, Im 
going to do that tomorrow. I got this 1941 
Cadillac and Im just getting the engine 
back together. Its a choice car.
Q: Have you ever wanted to get into 
record productionthat end of the music 
business?
A: Yes, I have wanted to. Indeed I 
produced a substantial part of my last 
album-I guess Im starting and its very 
exciting. Its very different from this sort 
of stuff.
Q: With a style like yours thats so
friendly and enjoying yourselt, do you tind 
it hard when you get in the recording 
studio to sit down and play sterile music if 
I can use that term for what you have to 
do in a studio?
A: I can get technical with it. I generally 
cut my vocals live as opposed to over 
dubbing. I cut as many things live as 1 can 
and continue to get separation-if I don't 
get it, I get together with musicians, we 
learn it, practice it a few times and leave it. 
We play it through and get the life in it. If 
we dont get it in ten times, we just drop it 
and let it go.
Q: Its been just you and Walter for the 
past three years. Have you considered 
anybody else?
A: We have indeed. We are in fact going 
to take on a third member-piano player.
Q: How do you get up for your con
certs? You keep your music real high all 
the time.
A: I dont have to get up for it because I 
just enjoy doing it more than anything else. 
I really do love to play for people and Im 
just destroyed by the idea that people 
would sit around and listen to me. That 
just blows me-I could play all night. Its a 
very nice compliment.
Hooray! and Boo!commentary:
by David Bandler
First praises to the TARTAN as they are 
due for the last issue in particularfeels 
longer and better and more nourishing than 
any issue in my six plus years around here 
on and off.
And some kudos, too, due to the tilmmakers whose work was shown smoothly 
at the Fourth Annual not too long ago. 
Thirdly, to the spirits of Scotch n Soda 
who may themselves be haunted still by 
the mortal review in the last TARTAN, I 
say be embalmed by these posthumous 
ointments: Broadways current -splash,
Pippin, Pippin!, evolved from a Scotch 
n Soda production that wasnt then in my 
opinion much better or worse than this 
years offerings; andmercy!take it from 
me, Ms. Klein, that condescending, selfaggrandizing, and cool criticism written to 
sparkle brighter than its voice is clear and 
its context is crucial will freeze the very 
ears upon which it is meant to fall with 
grace.
My theme nere seems to be that at'CMU 
the extracurricular arts of communication-journalism, filmmaking, and theatre 
most particularly-are, unlike this years 
magnolias, in more opulent and less 
fulsome bloom than has been usual here 
for some time. Granted, this recent growth 
is not without parallel in other contexts 
here and in other places both institutional 
and less fettered. But in our backyard, this 
is a development to be given explicit 
recognition and encouragement.
Yes, but one not in accord with these 
assertions might point first and furiously 
back at Scotch n Soda and say, Shit, 
man, you cant think that was good 
stuff?!
To him or her, I say this: if its proto
type from S n S could mutate after six 
years into Pippin, a Broadway 
suckcess, we can hope no less or more 
for this years equally ill-conceived but 
intriguing issue. Though I enjoyed 
Stephens show quite a bit, I do concur 
with Ms. Kleins strong inference that its 
near-fraternal twin-Barbaras production-is the more fraught with problems 
for an audience.
What if we, though, consider the 
context? Then we remember that we didnt 
go to SnS expecting a gourmet ex
perience (certainly not acting-wise). In fact 
quite the reverse: I think SnS sort of eats 
it every year; but I get myself to go as I did 
to the Film Festival and as I plow through 
the TARTAN.
Not only am I a glutton for punishment, 
though. I am, shamelessly, content with a 
few gold chunks sparkling in my pan after 
some hours in the stream of cultcha here at 
CMU.
Now maybe this position is a function 
of temperament more than reason. 
Probably is. But it is not unreasonable to 
temper our critical blade with an apprecia
tion of the context within we create and 
consume.
In this light, the Film Festival offerings 
fare better than SnS. My own favorites 
were Ralph Guggenheims Festival Intro, 
some of the evenings sun-on-water 
sequences, the kata footage of the propa
gandists Re, Roosevelt Sykes (very 
funky and professional) and some of the 
subtlety and metaphorical virtuosities in 
Madges Home Movies and Janis/ 
Michael. I was excited, too, by the 
sustained mood of Trains (and railroad 
buffs will eat it up), the spirit of Cruisin, 
etc., by stretches of Baltic Avenue and 
Technology, by David Krasners clarity 
by Kathy Kuzas 3Vi minute untitled tour 
de fourse, by the aspiration of Stonehedge, and by most of La Carta 
exceptironically-the rhythm.
Overall, the experience was a treat, a 
good cut above last year, pleasant evidence 
of the vitality and rapid growth of the art 
of filmmaking by the student members of 
the CMU family, and less in need of critical 
championing than SnS.
That leaves the TARTAN to defend 
against its imaginary but real attackers. But 
this paper, one might assert, speaks of late 
rather eloquently for itself. So this is 
Pollyanna Pablo Popoff Quixote signing off 
with a Bronx cheer and a Harlem hooray 
for the extracurricular communications 
arts here where mostof us hang out so long 
and happier.
(Continued from Page 3) 
their time doing during the week.
The basic senate meeting is only to 
gather all this information and activity and 
report it. The petty squabbles which the 
TARTAN insists on highlighting do 
occasionally point up discrepancies in 
operation of the Senate, however, they are 
not the main concern of ANY 
SENATORS, indeed for most of those 
involved in Senate, the affair concerning 
Mr. Sacco is buried and the time to per
form constructively, IN COMMITTEES is 
now.
Therefore, I challenge the TARTAN and 
WRCT to present a fair view of the actions 
of Student Government, Student Senate, 
and the Senators on campus. If, you find 
that the activities of the aforementioned 
are not relevant as well as considerable in 
time spent, then perhaps we should
abandon Student Government and all of its 
committees (Academic Affairs, Pro
gramming fund, Activities Board, 
Representatives on Educational Policy 
Council, Student members of Student 
Advisory Council, etc.). I would be most 
pleased to make the motion for you.
Finally, the floor of Student Senate is 
not the place to settle an issue, but rather a 
place to present the issue for discussion in 
a committee and a sane, acceptable 
solution that works. Student Government 
has gone to its committees to solve pro
blems and hopefully will continue to do 
such in the future. Its meetings may seem a 
farce, but look closely!
W. Roy Thompson 
Cftairman Finance Committee 
Student Government
TELL THEM ALL YOU KNOW!
HELP TELL THE REAL STORY
We are not a publication of the ADMISSIONS OFFICE 
or even of Public Relations. We are speaking 
from the students to the students.
Join The Staff of the 
SPECIAL ORIENTATION
Issue of The
TARTAN
Contact the TARTAN at 682-4557 
or GARY SINGER 682-4105

---------------------------------------------------

1 'v/ ai  i_  nil i  i i r-'M i ............................
Page 12TH TARTANTuesday, April 17, 1973
Jacques
Irei
tS
the
&welt
& Uving in
Paris
L
SATURDAY, APRIL 21, 8 p.m.
Skibo Ballroom
$1.50 with I.D.$2.50 without
One Performance Only
V

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, April 17, 1973-Page 13
-TWO 'by Kitty Tucker
_--------^ ^
Hi:-J Nzttfr you honorm'fhc AMt boycott ?

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, April 17, 1973
PERSONAL COMMENTARYSpring Carnival in Cambodia, 
Saunders jailed, and the Datin's Game
by Craig Collins
In which it is shown that it is useless to 
write about relevant subjects in university 
newspapers.
Spring Carnival is no longer exclusive to 
Carnegie-Mellon campus. This year a 
similar event will occur in Phnom Penhv 
Cambodia. Known as the Spring Offensive, 
it has been launched this year by fun-loving 
communitst troops in the northern pro
vinces. So far the preparations for this 
activity have been quite successful. The 
United States Government has even offered 
to provide an air show and fireworks 
display during the event. This will no 
doubt help the communists make this one 
of the most spectacular celebrations since 
January, when Nixon prompted parades 
and dancing in the streets by ending the 
Vietnam War. A whole line of contests and 
activities have been slated, ranging from 
the grenade toss to the ever-popular fu
gitive races. After all this, can you really 
believe the stories of atrocities our re
turning prisoners of war have related? 1 
suppose there will always be a few killjoys 
who will try to spoil the fun for the rest of 
us.
Back in the United States, public outcry 
was again heard this week as another news 
reporter has been jailed for refusal to 
disclose his sources. Stephen Saunders, 
editor-in-chief of the TARTAN, is 
presently being held without bail at the 
Allegheny County Jail on charges of 
income tax evasion. It is alleged by the
/
Internal Revenue Service that Saunders 
refused to declare on his tax return eleven 
dollars, which sum was used to finance a 
TARTAN staff party. 1RS maintains that 
the editor extracted the money from the 
TARTAN funds and therefore is con
sidered to have received taxable income. 
Saunders claims he never saw the money 
and refused to tell how the alcoholic 
beverages at the party were obtained. 
Saunders is not yet 21. He is presently 
directing the operation of this newspaper 
from his maximum-security cell at the jail. 
You may notice that Steve makes no 
mention of this state of affairs in his 
editorial this week. It is therefore obvious 
that the material he writing while in con
finement is being censored by jail officials 
before being released to the TARTAN. 
This cannot go on! We must see to it that 
what prisoners write during their incar
ceration is not cut up by drooling jail 
wardens and other protectors of public 
morals. We can all show our support of 
Steve Saunders by appearing at his grad
uation exercises in 1979. Its the least a 
responsible public can do.
There are two things which actively 
nauseate me: the Dating Game on
television, and Jean ^darns advice to teen
agers in the Pittsburgh Press. Lets look at 
the first source of gastric distress I 
mentioned. On the Dating Game, people of 
our age group (thats right) get on stage 
and make complete asses of themselves by 
asking (and answering) such questions as 
In the match-book of romance, what is
the warning printed on ycfur cover? 
Bachelor Number Two answers, very 
wittily, Never sirike twice. Jean Adams 
may be somewhat less reprehensible for her 
actions-the only person she makes an ass 
of is herself. My only hope is that the 
sorrowful teenagers who write to her with 
their problems are wise enough to ignore 
her advice. The Pittsburgh Fair Witness 
some time ago put together and printed a 
mock-Jean Adams column which is now a 
classic. The advice given was so Victorian, 
so prudish, so you're not old enough to,
that I was afraid that it was written for the 
Fair Witness by Jean herself.
We were all teeny-boppers at one time. 
Now, readers of this newspaper, reflect for 
a minute: you are probably the same age as 
the Playboy Playmate of the Monte and 
even older than many baseball players now 
in the major leagues. Remember how much 
older they always seemed to you? Look 
where these people have gone and what 
they have done. And here we are, drowning 
in rainy Pittsburgh and suffocating in PAT 
buses.
ILv.r-c^ PRESENTS:
 Restaurants
rszypocomc
ay20 ,rbb19 7 3Volm npV,smh ,mV,
T
A major step forward in getting our smoggy 
skies blue again. A major step forward in saving 
our forests, lakes and wildlife. And a major 
step forward in improving the quality of our 
environment. Youll be seeing and hearing a 
lot about Woodsy. He knows how you can 
fight pollution... and he needs your help.
Woodsy has a hooter. When he blows it, it 
goes Hoot! A Hoot is a pollution stopper. Some 
of Woodsys Hoots are: Trees make many things 
possible, plant a tree. Recycle all cans, bottles
and papers. Man paints houses only nature 
should paint forests. Sh sh sh sh sh sh...noise 
pollutes too. Trees and flowers cant hold their 
breath... smogs a killer. Tuned engines mean 
less smog. Keep your engines tuned.
In months to come youll be hearing many 
more Hoots...over one hundred. If you have 
good Hoots... practical ways people can fight 
pollution, send them to Woodsy Owl, U.S.
Forest Service, Washington, D.C. 20250.
Give a hoot! Dont polh.ie. es
Meet Woodsy Owl. He represents a major step forward in our fight against pollution.


---------------------------------------------------

ENTERTAINMENT
THE TAR TAN-Tuesday, April 17. 1973-Page 15-
Focus (finally)
Focus finally arrives
Cive Civ
by Arnie Karr
At their Thursday night concert in the 
CMU gym, Focus proved to be a lot more 
than the battle cry of MDC movie enthu
siasts. Possibly the fastest rising group in 
progressive music, CMU was, indeed, 
privileged to have them (finally) in concert. 
They are perhaps the prime example of 
un-glitter rockthe antithesis of the 
Bowies, Reeds and Coopers. All attention 
is paid to the musicality of the perform
ance, a non-excessive amount to the 
technicalities and a minimal, practically 
non-existent amount to the banalities. The 
group is tight, serious and, above all, 
brilliantly experimental.
The group is quite good. They shift 
easily from classical music (Focus II, 
Eruption) to jazz (Anonymous II) to 
rock (Hocus Pocus). Each member has 
his special ability and, in concert, his 
moment to shine. Guitarist Jan Akkerman, 
already heralded as one of the greats, lived 
up to his image, incorporating fine classical 
riffs into the groups semi-rock format. 
During Focus III, a catchy baroque-rock 
tune, he skillfully lifted four bars from 
Petula Clarks Dont Sleep in the 
Subway without even making the 
audience blink. He combines his well 
trained classical guitar background with an 
insightful understanding of rock technique 
producing sounds that were seemingly, 
until now, unachievable. He is a guitar 
pioneer.
The group is, fortunately, able to escape 
having the reputation of a one-man band, a 
problem which followed Eric Clapton from 
group to group. Though the critical fo
cus may be on Akkerman, the CMU 
audience seemed totally absorbed by Thijs 
van Leer, a man of varied and advanced 
abilities, including fine organ and flute 
playing, excellent composing, miraculous 
yodeling, choral singing and high frequency 
whistling. Throughout the performance, he 
was the link between Akkerman and the 
rest of the group (comprised of Bert Ruiter 
on bass and Pierre van der Linden on 
drums, who both played inventive solo and 
back-up roles during the show). It is van 
Leer that brings the rest of the group out 
its shell by providing the balance that 
keeps the group from becoming a showcase 
for Mr. Akkerman. In essence, this makes 
the group a group.
Akkermans playing leads the group, but 
it does not overwhelm it. With Akkerman
Photo by Ed Levine
defining motifs and van Leer providing 
variations, the performance had the feel of 
a symphony rather than a rock concert. 
Complex musical themes were debated on 
stage. It is the seriousness of their music 
that will distinguish them. Rather than 
discuss the competence of the group 
(which is considerable, I assure you), Id 
prefer to say that they are doing something 
new-making a contribution. Their music 
requires concentration. Because of this, I 
feel that the audience got their moneys 
worth, but that the group did not get their 
efforts worth. Much of the crowd had a 
get-to-the-heavy-WYDD-hit-already atti
tude that detracted from the potential 
experience of the late night show. (This 
same out of place lets boogy feeling also 
bothered the group at last years Spring 
Carnival concert, Seatrain.)
When Hocus Pocus finally did come 
(and when the theme was repeated at the 
tail end of each of the two encores), Focus 
added a few surpriseslight syncopation 
and increased sarcasm during van Leers 
already satirical yodeling, whistling and 
singing solos. After the show, van Leer 
commented that the song is a comment on 
some of the predictable elements of mod
ern rock music while denying that its per
formance parodied rock audiences. (Im 
not so sure.)
After the program, a fan fought his way 
up to Jan Akkerman to comment, I saw 
Jeff Beck last night, and you have to be 
twice as good. Within ten seconds of the 
admirers departure, Akkerman was again 
discussing MacLaughlin, Zappa, Segovia, 
Coryell, etc. In all fairness, Im sure that 
some of the audience had heard of them, 
too.
So, after letting us down twice, Focus 
really did come through. Ill give them a 
95; you really cant dance to them. (And, 
oh, how Im trying not to end this review 
by saying, Ill give the audience a 55, 
because I could dance on them. But endiig with parentheses is too much like 
Norman Mailer. )
. Luxury . Supt. .
Furnished Apartments
Shadysid* 3-r.-$255 
Oakland 2 (,..$245
391-5446; 687-2360; 422-9607
by Debbie Siegel
The Activities Board redeemed itself 
Friday night with its second concert of the 
weekend. A capacity crowd filled the gym 
to enjoy a well balanced evening of folk 
featuring Livingston Taylor. There were no 
surprises or cheap thrills, but the audience 
was filled with teeny boppers who could 
use some toilet training (they constantly 
jumped up, and down), and students 
waiting to hear the voice of Liv Taylor.
Reeve Little, a folk singer from Camb
ridge was faced with a challenge in playing 
the first half of the show. Reeve is an 
extremely masculine man with a voice to 
match. He has a warm personality and 
good delivery, but its too much like many 
other performer who have the same 
qualities going for them, I said he has a 
masculine voice and I only wish hed stay 
with that instead of going into high 
falsesettos. Reeve plays a pleasant guitar 
accompaniment and does a well rounded 
program of songs including Train of Love 
by Johnny Cash, Beatles, and originals. 
Reeve can play all kinds of folk and has the 
talent to carry it off, but he must find 
himself and become established as a purist 
instead of imitation Stills, Cash, or 
Feliciano. In speaking to Reeve after the 
show, he admitted that this appearance was 
his first alone. Usually he plays with a back 
up group and is now experimenting with 
stvle.
Livingston seems to be flying so high 
that he makes the audience ride along with
him. It is a joy for Livingston to be enter
taining his audience, and the crowd recip
rocated by participating and merely enjoy
ing. Livingston is about the closest thing to 
a one man band. He started by playing 
guitar and branched into Corn Bread, But
termilk on the banjo that showed the 
precision of Lester Flatt, and everyone be
gan clapping. He then moved over to the 
piano and banged out Oh Hallejah which 
he wrote while deciding what makes a per
son peaceful.
Walter Robinson has been playing string 
bass back up for three years and appears to 
enjoy rounding off the sound of Liv as 
much as Liv enjoys giving the show. Living
ston plays the music of different people, 
but the songs become his own no matter 
who the composer. He really admires 
Rogers and Hammerstein and Ray Charles. 
In singing Somewhere Over the 
Rainbow, the song still carries the nostal
gia of Judy Garland, but its style is purely 
Livingston. The same is true when he does 
Aretha Franklins I Cant Lose This 
Dream. My favorite was Hallelujah I 
Love Her So which swung in full blues 
rhythm. Livingston closed with Carolina 
Day, one of his own classics.
There was a standing ovation and as an 
encore Liv played Joshua Fit De Battle of 
Jericho on flute. By using his own varied 
resources, Livingston Taylor makes an aud
ience forget their problems, sit back and be 
entertained.
Liv Taylor aided by Walt Robinson on Bass
Photo by Ellen Eddy
Campus Camera Headquarters 
FOR ALL YOUR 
PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS
Film
Processing  Equipment
CAMERA EXCHANGE
Student Discount on Most Items
Two i.urntions 
OAKLAND-3711 Forbes Avenue 
SHAOYSIDE5432 Walnut Street
Phone: 643-2181 
Phone. 683-8900

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, April 17, 1973
Concerts
 i f/ei fa t d
by Arnie Karr does not equal that of a young piano play
er after one lesson. (Even if it was a good 
AIM: To explain Alice Cooper to lesson.) The group, consisting of Michael
people who will not buy his records or attend Bruce and Gary Buxton on guitars, Dennis
his concerts. People like myself.
Until the press conference which pre
ceded his April 6th concert, I thought that 
Alice Cooper was a sick pervert. I felt that 
his performances were expressions of his 
perversion and I accepted him as an ex
ploited maniac; his audiences as freak voy
eurs.
Everything changed on that April day. 
The press party revealed a normal, TV-- 
watching longhair (which I suppose I qua
lify as) who liked Groucho, Leave It to 
Beaver and baseball (as I do). Starting 
with that press conference, I began to rea
lize that something was up with this guy. 
He showed no signs of homosexuality, 
sado-masochism or necrophilism. Could 
this be the gross character who nearly 
made my sister puke?
And then it happened-- my first Alice 
Cooper concert. Sensing that the roles Id 
assigned Alice and his audience might, in 
actuality, be reversed, I spent almost half 
the concert on my knees facing away from 
the stage, thus affording me a better view 
of the frantic, primarily teenage, audience.
Unlike Sly or the Grateful Dead, Cooper 
does not evoke violent hand-clapping or 
boogying from his audiences. The crowds 
are rather sedate, as if they were exper
iencing a revelation of some sort.
The fact id that they are! Alice is adol
escent approval. He takes every teenagers 
insecurities and fantasies, amplifies them 
theatrically and performs them in legimate 
concert halls all over the world. The April 
6th concert took place in Pittsburghs 
Civic Arena, where these same young 
people had often watched their hockey and 
basketball favorites compete. Now, hockey 
and basketball are healthy American 
sports. How would anyone let a real freaka truly subversive character- into the Civic 
Arena? Alice gained exposure through a 
series of musically inferior, though catchy , 
Top 40 hits. The music drew the audience ; 
the audiences, whether consciouly or sub
consciously, liked what they saw and let 
each other know that the group wouldnt 
murder the audience and each other and I, 
subsequently, drew a few conclusions.
Even after the show, I still feel that even 
the combined musical talent of this group
Dunaway on bass and Neal Smith on 
drums, simply cannot play their instru
ments. As long as Alice is on stage, his 
acting and singing provide the audience 
with something to watch, listen to, get 
released by, etc.; but when he leaves (as he 
does, briefly, after being guillotined) the 
show goes with him, leaving the fans noth
ing to listen to but a bunch of tone deaf 
arthritics. (At one point while Alice was 
changing costumes, all three guitarists, at
tempting to play in unison, hit different 
notes.)
Alice, meanwhile, was magnificent. He 
is an actor, complete with make-up, magic, 
and props including a well-publicized boa 
constrictor). He understands the fantasies 
of young America. What could possibly 
please one of those fans more than seeing 
everything that theyve done and dreamt of 
in the reclusive privacy of their own rooms 
and felt guilty about performing on 
stage?
Technically, the show is flawless. Coop
er is 80% theatre and 20% concert. There 
is, cleverly, no emphasis on the music and 
all emphasis on what blasphemous act 
Alice will perform next, whether it be cop 
scolding or auto-eroticism. The stage is 
decorated with a complete set, lighting 
fixtures, silver manequins (which members 
of the group smash every so often) and 
props that drift on and off the stage. Be
sides the guillotine, Alice is subjected to a 
huge dentists drill, a six-foot tube of 
toothpaste (which he makes love to) and a 
huge toothbrush. Alice has been taking 
magic lessons from The Amazing Randy, 
who also appears on stage as the dentist 
and executioner, and A1 has learned well. 
He turns a scarf into a cane and he throws 
fire from his fingertips. He is truly young 
Americas number one fantasy man, just as 
John Wayne is the same for the older gen
eration, and, similarly, they love him.
His band cant play. His records stink. A 
blind person would either fall asleep or go 
deaf at one of his concerts. (I dont, how
ever, feel that a deaf person would go 
blind. In fact, a deaf person might really 
enjoy it.)
Still, as he said to the audience, You 
think Im crazy? Youre crazier than I 
am!
Yes, Alice knows;
Underground on Jeff Beck
by George Bias and Amyl Nitrate
Well kiddies, so you missed the Beck 
concert; yeah, thats right, Jeff Beck, who 
else / Well tell you about the Beck concert. 
He was at the Syria Mosque last Wednesday 
night, one of those Pat DiCesare Producions. The Mosque was about packed with 
an audience of terminal teens, the type you 
wont find at an Alice Cooper concert. As a 
matter of tact they cheered louder for 
Frank Zappa than for Leon Russell when 
the list of coming attractions was read; the 
mention of Uriah Heep produced the dull 
roar of ten million ants being chased by a 
squirrel.
Leading off was the Wet Willy Band, 
previously known for touring with the 
Allman Bros., and now is a part of the 
Beck, Bogert, and Appice tour. Their style 
is very' similar to the blues style of the J. 
Gtils 'Bsrid, purely accidental since they^ " r
developed their style at the same time as J. 
Geils. The performance of Wet Willy was 
extremely disappointing from any frame of 
reference (or mind) as their songs were 
poor, and their playing was not tight. In 
spite of their poor showing, the audience 
reaction was moderately enthusiastic.
On the other hand (the right one of 
course), the performance of Jeff Beck, Tim 
Bogert, and Carmen Appice was one of the 
finest ever to be seen. Loose does not 
describe their performance; tight is a much 
better word, even though their together* 
ness went beyond that. In the opening 
tune, Stevie Wonders Superstition, Beck 
showed that he is, indeed, one of the finest 
guitarists living today. We would include
Beck on a list which includes the likes of 
John McLaughlin, Roy Clark. Pete Banks, 
Johnny Winter, and possibly Eric Clapton 
even though he hasnt produced anything
Seals and Crofts
by Terry Cay wood
The Syria Mosque most likely has not 
seen square dancing in the aisles before, at 
least not with as much enthusiasm as Seals 
and Crofts generated on Saturday, April 7. 
Each time this duo comes to Pittsburgh, 
they excite an ever larger crowd, and their 
fourth visit to the city showed them a 
packed house.
England Dan and John Ford Coley 
opened the show, and set the mood nicely. 
Their clear voices and well blended 
harmonies settled warmly among some fine 
guitar work, tickling banjo picking, and a 
few excursions into keyboards (piano, 
clavichord, and synthesizer). I hadnt 
known that England Dan was Jim Seals 
brother, but then again, most people 
havent even heard of England Dan.
Seals and Crofts got immediate and 
enthusiastic applause for merely walking 
onto stage, and so you can imagine the 
response to their music. Hummingbird, 
Summer Breeze and others of the better 
known numbers were well received, though 
throughout the evening members of the 
audiehce called out for the lesser known 
material as well. Attentive ears were treat
ed to special arrangements of Cotton 
Mouth and others, but unfortunately only 
one song from the new Diamond Girl al
bum showed up, a folksy ballad called 
Dust On My Saddle. At this point, Jim 
Seals and Dash Crofts were joined by Eng
land Dan and John Ford Coley, and the 
four of them then stayed in the country
music vein, clear through the hoe-down 
style finish and encore. After the show, 
Dash told me they just havent had the 
opportunity to practice the newer material 
for stage presentation. Looking at the 
deep-toned cover, he said this was the first 
time he had had a chance to actually see 
the album. Dash seems to bear an uncanny 
resemblence to the bearded Paul McCart
ney on stage, although the album cover 
photo doesnt bear this out.
Following the show, the audience was 
invited to stay to hear a few words about 
the Bahai faith. Jim and Dash have spoken, 
often in their music of this force on their 
life, and those who stayed listened quietly.
The peculiar vocalization and harmonies 
that Seals and Crofts build around their 
mandolin and guitar is not all they have 
going for them. The Texas born Seals and 
California-bred Crofts have been friends 
ever since the boys were seven and three 
respectively. Along with Glen Cambell, the 
blue-eyed farm-boy himself, and Louie 
Shelton, presently their producer and an 
excellent studio musician who has ap
peared with the Carpenters and others, 
they made up a group called The Champs 
while still only in their teens. The only real 
hit they ever had then was Tequila, a 
disc that sold enouth to encourage them to 
higher levels of sophistication. This close
ness in friendship has yielded a tightness in 
their music. Seals and Crofts have been 
together for over twenty years, but the 
country is just beginning to take note of 
their alliance.
ARCHITECTS WANTED
98 ARCHITECTS TO SERVE AS 
Peace Corps Volunteers
In Asia, Africa, Latin America.
Design schools, hospitals, low cost housing, public works projects, etc.
Visit the Placement Office far Information 
OR CALL COLLECT 
DEBBIE KOOPERMAN  (215) 597-0744
THE PEACE CORPS
in the past two years except re-released 
songs.
Maybe we should return to the matter 
at hand (this time the left one); Wednesday 
nights concert. Tim Bogert, formerly of 
Vanilla Fudge and Cactus, showed that he 
could play a bass guitar as well as many 
rock people can play guitars. Carmen 
Appice, also of Vanilla Fudge and Cactus, 
showed that he is a fine rock drummer who 
adds quality vocals which is indeed rare. 
The bands vocals are quite good, especially 
since Beck wisely lets the overshadowing 
Bogey and Appice do all of them. Stevie 
Wonders influence makes itself known in 
the vocal style as well as giving Becks 
British guitar style a strong funky taste. By 
the way, all that neat stuff he used with 
Hopkins and Stewart on Beck-ola is still in 
his repertoire; slightly refined by his later 
bands. He can now be expected to pull 
such stunts as playing Becks Boogie at 78 
r.p.m., or any faster speed youd prefer.
So, friends, you did miss a good 
concert, and we agree the ticket prices for 
Beck, Bogert and Appice were outrageous 
($4, $5, $6) but well worth it (were 
ambivalent). If BBA hits your town, be 
sure youre there.
WRAT ARE VBB DOING THIS SUMMER ?
Pick-A-Projcct. Roach out, expand 
your world of people and iaeas at the 
University o' Pennsylvania Summer 
Sessions Over 290 courses, from 
Archaeology to Zoology, offer credit 
toward an undergiaduate graduate 
or piofesi>ional degree.
For complete information, mail 
this coupon today
[2 First Session: May 22 to Juno 29 
? Second Session: July 2 to Aug. 10
NAME______
ADDRESS
CITY_______
STATE_____71f
UNIVERSITY of SES 
PEXKS TLVA.KIA U>J
Summer Sessions 
Room 21CC. Logan Hall 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 1S174

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, April 17, 1973-Page 17
Theatre mlJacques BrelZhe Pennsylvania Wallet
One of the most popular and most 
influential musicals in recent American 
stage history is to be brought to the Skibo 
Ballroom by a New York touring company 
for one performance only on Saturday, 
April 21, under the auspices of Activities 
Board. It is the show with the long title 
Jacques Brel Is Alive and Well and Living 
in Paris which one New York drama critic 
thought should have been shortened to one 
apt word, Terrific.
The popularity of this show is attested 
by its having had a continuous run of over 
four years in New York, beginning in 1968 
and comparably long engagements in other 
large cities from Boston to Los Angeles.
And its influence, as the first book
less musical, can be traced through Hair 
and a whole series of other innovative 
musical attractions that substituted a sense 
of time-and-place for merely a plot. The 
theatricality of Jacques Brel ... stems 
from a sequence of twenty-five songs 
originally written in French by Jacques 
Brel, a Belgian who in the 1960s 
established himself as Frances prime 
chansonnier, wearing the mantle of such 
preceding writer-singer troubadours as 
Maurice Chevalier, Edith Piaf, Charles 
Azvanour and Georges Brassens.
The twenty-five ditties were chosen 
from a total of over 300 surgingly strong, 
romantic, joyous, indignant or lamenting 
songs in the Brel canon, freely adapted by 
two American devotees of Brels work, Eric 
Blau and Mort Shuman, and linked up by 
them with dialog drawn from other songs 
to create the shows unique atmosphere.
Brels songs began to gain some 
American fame in the early 1960s through
Record Review
by Terry Cay wood
In Grand Hotel, Procol Harums latest 
album, we are lead through the divine 
decadence of the aristocracy, from the 
Russian flavor of the opening title number, 
clear through the drama, rhythm and ex
citement of every minute of music. And 
though wrapped up in the weight of the 
classical guise, the raw power and tumbling 
momentum of rock is there as well.
The concept that the album is built 
around (the decadence of a declining 
society) is competently carried out through 
first-rate musicianship. The orchestra is 
masterfully controlled and in its place. No 
single instrument of the group dominates 
the sound to the extent that the others 
become superficial. The banjo, bass drum 
and spoons of Sotovenier From London 
have been mixed precisely with the organ 
and acoustical guitars to give not a homo
genized sound, but more the impression of 
a homogeneous effort. Keith Reids lyrics 
are strong and yet not demanding: in 
listening to Tojour LAmour, it is Gary 
Brookers voice one notices first, and the 
impact of the lyrics comes later. The 
rhymes that exist are far from forceful, and 
seem to occur naturally. The drama of 
For Licorice John, one of the albums 
tighter songs, is held at peak level to the 
final sustained note of its imaginative 
ending. The sheer thrill of musical dis
covery is full in Fires (Which Burn 
Brightly), a song that employs Christianne 
Legrand of the Swingle Singers idd to 
the eerieness of the mood.
Yes, Im a Procol fan, but I think this
French recording imported and quickly 
snapped up by connoisseurs. Through one 
of these recordings, Eric Blau became 
fascinated with the songs and personality 
of Brel and he adapted two of the songs for 
a revue called O, Oysters, that he 
presented at an off-Broadway theatre in 
New York in 1961. This brought him to an 
acquaintance with a successful writer of 
rhythm and blues music, Mort Shuman, 
who was an ardent admirer of Brel and had 
become his friend during visits to Paris.
The two men determined to introduce 
Brels work to Americans in an evening 
long show, but the plan was delayed for 
several years as they tried to devise a form 
for the entertainment. They agreed that 
We have to have some kind of libretto. A 
form to hold the songs together. Otherwise 
its concert time, baby.
But every sort of libretto they thou^it 
of seemed false, corny--very Oklahoma, 
very Hollywood. Gradually they came to 
see that the songs and the Brel 
commentary made an ambiance, a re
flection of our troubled part of this 
century, that was as with-it, as contem
porary, as any hoked-up libretto could be. 
When Jacques Brel was finally produced, 
it was recognized by everyone as a show. 
No one thought of labelling it with the 
word concert.
One of the most absorbing shows in 
many seasons, was the accolade given the 
attraction by William Leonard in the 
Chicago Tribune, emphasizing that word 
show. A pretty damned wonderful 
show, said Kevin Kelly in the Boston 
Globe. Clive Barnes, critic of the New York 
Times, by-passed the word show He 
called it a super-musical.
albums appeal will reach out beyond those 
who already have been convinced of their 
remarkable talent. One of the admirable 
traits of Procol, though, is that they 
havent sold out to the bland 
commercialism that attracts a quick and 
passing audience. Im sure the temptations 
are there, but these guys continue to pro
duce music distinctly their own, and top 
quality stuff to boot. They owr an 
amazingly firm following, despite very few 
hit singles (even counting Whiter Shade 
of Pale twice).
After listening to Grand Hotel, I 
threw on its predecessor, In Concert With 
The Edmonton Symphony Orchestra. The 
Edmonton work succeeded in capturing 
the excellence of the live performance, and 
this is how the latest Procol package shine 
one brightly (In a couple of spots, I anti
cipated applause, but none came.). The 
style, the grace, the grandeur of their per
formance is there. All the energy that Gary 
Brooker and his troupe so effortlessly 
convey in live demonstrations, the exacting 
notes, pitch, dynamics-particularly 
dynamics--are wound up in this, the latest 
of their classiscs.
Straight out, Grand Hotel is possibly 
one of the finest albums the seventies has 
seen; the necessary elements of musical 
craftsmanship, creativity, and a healthy 
feeling of aliveness are there in full 
measure. And sure, when a reviewer makes 
such a sweeping statement, hes leaving 
himself wide open for considerable 
criticism. But where else have you heard 
the likes of such a masterpiece?
by Susan Mayer
Ballet in the form of politely posed 
ladies and effeminate men is a dying art. 
Ballerinas prancing daintily, and male dan
cers as seeming prop men have become 
downright boring. Emerging to take the 
place of the rather stale Swan Lakes 
and Giselles of the art form is a new 
kind of ballet. It retains the grace and 
technique of the classical dance, but there 
is a new freedom of movement and expres
sion. This is best exemplified by the excel
lent performance of the Pennsylvania Com
pany at Heinz Hall on Friday night.
The ballet opened with Madregalesco, 
unspectacular in its simple classic choreog
raphy and Renaissance costuming. The 
company seemed vaguely uncomfortable in 
this mode of dance, but an audience of 
traditionalist balletomanes was ecstatic at a 
generally faultless performance.
The true direction of the Pennsylvania 
Ballet Company was evident immediately 
in Black Angel. Demonic red scenery 
and lighting set the tone for a tale of Satan, 
and suddenly ballet was mime and acting. 
Choreographer Jqfin Butler has shown the 
ballet world that torsos may bend and
APARTMENT 
TO SUBLET
May 16th or June 1st 
to Aug. 31st
Large beautifully furnished, one 
bedroom apt., Oakland/Shadyside 
vicinity (Morewood Ave.) Grad. 
Student or Prof. Person(s) desired.
RENT NEGOTIABLE 
Phone: 687-2467 or 68^-0360 (Eve)
twist, hands and arms need not be rounded 
to be graceful, and bodies can mesh expres
sively. Lawrence Rhodes, dressed in only a 
few black strips of cloth, told the chilling 
story of a Satanic mass with amazing con
trol of his body, and Hilda Morales was 
equally adept at violent expression in 
movement. Eerie electric music completed 
a strange but compelling mood not usually 
experienced at a ballet.
The tenseness of the Satanic ritual was 
broken by Eight Movements in Ragged 
Time, a fun ballet glowing with the 
youthfulness and vibrance of the company. 
They waltzed, tangoed, and tap-danced en 
pointe. Again, in opposition to tradition, 
hips swayed and feet turned in. A pianist 
on stage played Maple Leaf Rag (a Carnegie-Mellon computer favorite) as David 
Kloss led the Company in a ballet reminis
cent of dance hall entertainment.
Ballet is changing to survive. It is no 
longer stiff, unemotional, and asexual. The 
Pennsylvania Ballet Company, in existence 
for only ten years, has youth, vitality, and 
is headed in the right direction. They may 
be the instigators of a new form of dance, a 
modem version of the still greatly appreci
ated classical ballet.
Established Film Company 
is screening written comedy 
from students and profes
sionals.
CALL 362-2389 
Also seeking actors, techni
cal crew and assistant direc
tors.
REGAL NOTES
_uE9eDbruE I1rTDy uFO91D ruE IF9RD
FASTER WITH OUR NOTES
Wo'ra and mo'to the bigest* Thousands of
topic rtvitwtf lf quicker underfondmg. Our 
lwk|cli include not only English, but Anthro
pology, Art, Block Studio, Ecology, Eco
nomics, Education, History, Low, Music, 
Philosophy, Political Sc i one #, Psychology, 
Religion, Scionco, Sociology and Urban Prob
lems. Sand $2 for your catalog al topics avail
able.
REGAL NOTES 
3140 O'* Straat. M.W. 
Washington, D. C. 30007 
Tolgano 303-333-0301
Proco/ Harum-Grand Hotel

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18-THE TARTANTuesday, April 17, 1973
SPORTS
Track Team 
Undefeated
by Ken Kloes
One thing that cant be said of this 
years track season to date is that the meets 
have been dull, lifeless affairs! Last Mon
day, the Tartans won their third meet in a 
come-from-behind 73-72 victory over Beth
any College. Besides Bethany, the team had 
to contend with a track practically inun
dated by Sundays rain, falling tempera
tures, and rising winds, which combined to 
make conditions somewhat less than ideal.
Mike Niles and Ken Stevens grabbed a 
quick lead with a 1-2 finish in the pole 
vault, which stood up through the mile 
run. Bethany then began piling up points in 
the field events until CMU was down by
21. The margin was cut down by Jay 
Corpus and Jim Donnellys 1-2 win in the 
100 yd dash. Neville Evans made up 
another point by winning the 440 yd. dash, 
in place of the injured Tony McKay. The 
big turning point, however, was the 220 
yd. dash. Corpus again won, followed by 
Nate Berger and Evans to complete CMUs 
sweep of the event. Ken Kloes win in the 
three mile run brought the Tartans to 
within four points of Bethany, going into 
the last event. There a clutch performance 
by Berger, Corpus, Evans, and Chuck 
McDonough gave CMU the mile relay and 
the meet.
Leading scorers for CMU were Corpus 
with 12Vi points, Kloes with 11, and Berger 
with 10^4.
The Tartans, now 3-0, next meet W & J 
at home. VES 16Upward A . . Bound Athletes
by Brandon DulaSucceed
Three students from the 1972 CMU 
Upward Bound graduating class have done 
very well athletically and academically: 
John Clark in his senior year made the All 
City Basketball Team at Peabody High 
School. Clark, who is 62, was recruited 
by Northeastern University in Boston, 
Mass., and has accomplished the unusual 
feat of making and staiting on the Varsity 
Basketball team as a freshman. Clark 
averaged 14.5 points per game and, despite 
the hard practice and traveling, Clark also 
made the Deans List.
linfoster Lindsey a 65 graduate of 
Fifth Avenue High School did not play 
basketball there until his senior year. He 
did play well enough though to be re
cruited by St. Vincents College in Latrobe, 
Pa. Linfoster also started for the varsity 
team as a forward and averaged 14 points 
per game. Linfoster is also a very strong 
student.
Henry Mallory a 64 former student of 
Langley High School also made the All 
City Basketball team giving Upward Bound 
two All City players. Mallory was accepted 
at Eastern Utah Junior College and started 
as a forward. He averaged 14.9 points per 
game and has an academic average of 3.3.
He also was Honorable Mention on his con
ference All Star Team. Upward Bound gave 
these former students the impetus both 
academically and athletically to train them 
to discipline their minds as well as their 
bodies by playing for the Upward Bound 
Team and studying hard hours.
.M.Softball Welcomed By Spring Showers
Tartan Athletes 
Given Honor
by Dave List
This year the IM Softball League has 
had an incredible response in terms of the 
number of players participating. There are 
forty-eight teams totalling close to six 
hundred people. With so many teams 
involved, it was difficult to make up a 
schedule in which the teams could play a 
reasonable number of games. As it turned 
out, most teams are only playing four 
games while the rest are playing five.
The largest league this year is the Majors 
which consists of twenty-one of the fortyeight teams. It is broken into four 
divisions: the Pirates, Reds, Twins, and 
Orioles. The intermediate League consists 
of seventeen teams and three divisions, 
while the Minors is made up of ten teams 
and two divisions.
Due to all the rain (and snow) this 
season, some of the games have been 
postponed. This is not an overly common 
occurrence. In the past, the softball league 
has had a reputation of playing under very 
bad conditions. This year they have not 
changed that policy. However, when half
of the teams do not show up for a game, 
and the other half arrives wearing their 
snorkels and webbed feet, the umpires have 
little choice but to postpone the games. 
The schedule is tight enough without 
having to re-schedule games. As it is, teams 
are playing on Saturdays and Sundays. 
Rainouts have already caused two games to 
be played during the motorcycle rally. 
Fortunately no mishaps occurred.
Nine Camegie-Mellon University stu
dents have been chosen to appear in the 
1973 edition of Outstanding College 
Athletes of America (O.C.A.A.)
Among those selected were CMUs four 
All-PAC football team members: junior 
Brian Carlock and seniors Art Hunkele, 
Ray Terza, and John Sabol. Cross-country 
team members Anthony McKay (junior) 
and Ken Kloes (junior), swimmer Peter 
Hoysan (senior), basketball captain Michael
Wegener (junior) and All-PAC soccer star 
The schedule is tight enough without Peter Moses (junior) join them as O.C.A.A. 
having to re-schedule games. As it is, teams selections.
are pjaying on Saturdays and Sundays. Brian Carlock, a graduate of Charleroi 
Rainouts have already caused two games tp High School, is majoring in chemical enginbe played during the motorcycle rally, eering. A wide receiver, he led the PAC in 
Fortunately, no mishaps occurred. receiving this season and maintains a 3.1
Because of the soft ground, another rule point average, 
has been added. If an outfielder accidently 
tramps on the ball while chasing it, time is
called, the runner is awarded an extra base, . r . ,, ,  engineering. A four-year letterman, he wasand a shovel is used to retrieve the ball. A . , r ,  .a tri-captain on this year s football team.
Even with the poor weather, Jim Art Hunkele is a graduate of North
McCurley is running the league smoothly. Catholic High and is a civil engineering
If you get a chance, come on out and major. An outstanding defensive end, he is
Ray Terza is a graduate of Duquesne 
High School and is majoring in mechanical
watch a game.
Dave List of the Purple Gnurples 
hits a long drive.Photo by Carl Grefenstette
EASTER SUNRISE SERVICE
APRIL 22nd - 6:00 AM. - HEINZ MEMORIAL CHAPEL
Sponsored by Lutheran Campus Ministry
APRIL 19 - APRIL 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28th
5:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m.
Delicious Food and Pleasant 
Atmosphere at Loic Prices.
also a four-year letterman.
John Sabol is an administration and 
management science major from Uniontown High. A linebacker for three years, he 
played both offense and defense this 
season, winning honors at his offensive 
tackle position. He maintains a B 
average.
Anthony McKay, a physics major from 
Compton, California, is a quarter-miler of 
national caliber, as well as an excellent 
cross-country runner. He was also selected 
for O.C.A.A. honors last year.
Ken Kloes was CMUs top cross-country 
man this season. He is also an outstanding 
three-mile man during the track season, as 
well as an excellent student in the 
mechanical engineering department. Hes 
from Gibsonia, Pa.
Pete Hoysan, captain and MVP of this 
seasons swim team, is a civil engineering 
student, maintaining a B+ average. He is a 
resident of Bethel Park, Pa.
Mike Wegener, captain and MVP of the 
basketball team, is an administration and 
management science major, maintaining a 
B average. He comes from Phoenix, Ariz.
Peter Moses, All-PAC choice at centerforward, is from Kingston, Jamaica. He has 
been named three times to the All-Western 
Pennsylvania Intercollegiate Soccer 
Conference team. Moses is majoring in 
economics and carries a B+ average.
Beta leading in their heat
Photo by Ed Levine

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, April 17, 1973-Page 19
Every April
by Glenn Campbell
You see Mays lashing a double off the 
wall, Koufax striking out 15 Yankees, 
Clemente throwing out a runner at the 
plate. The box score is but a piece of the 
puzzle comprising baseball history, but 
each one can stand by itself. The box score 
of October 17, 1971 shows Steve Blass as 
the winning pitcher. But it shows much 
more than this. The Pirates have won the 
World Series and Roberto Clemente has 
shown us baseball being played at a level 
quite near perfection. The box scores 
evoke these memories and this mental 
replay can be more pleasant than 
witnessing the actual deed.
You pick up the baseball you caught at 
the ballpark. Gaylord Perry is on the 
mound. He throws the ball, the batter 
swings, and the ball is headed for you. It 
hits above you and miraculously it drops 
into your outstretched hands. Although 
the Pirates lose the game you leave Forbes 
Field happier than you came. This Roberto 
Clemente homerun is something solid, a 
piece of the game, and youll always keep 
it and explain its history.
These thoughts come about every April. 
The beginning of the baseball season is a 
renewal of youth, a return to a simpler 
time. A trip to the ballpark recaptures 
something good. Here time is stopped, no 
longer measured by minutes but by outs. 
Just keep the rally alive and this game may 
never end.
Within the ballpark, time moves 
differently, marked by no clock except the
Golfers in Slow Start
events of the game.
Since baseball time is measured only in 
outs, all you have to do is succeed utterly; 
keep hitting, keep the rally alive, and you 
have defeated time. Roger Angell
The Summer Game
Time is suspended when you step onto a 
baseball field. The game is a constant; its 
the same now as when you played, and 
when your father played. Its a harking 
back to a simpler time. There is no clock 
ticking valuable seconds away, telling you 
when to stop. Of all the pectator
sports only baseball eschews t clock, 
avoids the mechanical limitations ^nposed 
by a machine. Unlike other sports baseball 
is basically the same now as it was then, 
only the players have changed. It is this 
sameness, this constancy, which constitutes 
baseballs charm.
The typical baseball fan is less affluent 
than his football counterpart. Since base
ball isnt as over-intellectualized as football 
the fan naturally thinks he knows twice as 
much as the manager, and in some cases he 
does. He doesnt go to a game as a status 
symbol, flashing his season ticket. He 
comes to the game to relive his youth, to 
see the game he used to play. Hell tell you 
about the old timers who he claims were 
better than todays players. But hes not 
overbearing. He comes to the ballpark to 
see the summer game and hes always 
better off f r each visit.
Sci ing an old box score brings 
memories to the minds eye, the interior 
stadium, and you see them as if theyre just 
happening.
by Dan Buis
Tartans duffers won some and lost some 
during the snow-filled Carnival week.
On April 6, the golf team took on Grove 
City in a non-PAC event. The G.C. Golfers 
won handily as the Tartans picked up only 
4lA points out a possible 24. In the match 
play event, Doug Stone led the team with 
3Vi points, shooting a 77. Dennis Mitchell 
and Tom Lang each picked up one-half 
point, shooting a 96 and 89 respectively.
Last Tuesday, snow forced cancellation
of a match against Bethany. This past 
weekend the team took on Thiel and 
Hiram in their first PAC match. In the 
PAC, the lowest total medal score deter
mines the winner. CMU came out in the 
middle, losing to Thiel, last years PAC 
champs, but downing Hiram. Doug Stone 
had an 81 and Jim Lavin shot a 78.
On Monday, April 16 the golfers face 
Bethany, W & J, and Case Western at 
Bethany. The CMU golfers have a PAC 
record of 1-1.
Frat men readying for sweepstakesPhoto by Nick Lardas
Mike Garl gets over an obstacle
DISTRESSED
BY AN 
UNPLANNED 
PREGNANCY?
For counseling support and 
practical help, call
BIRTHRIGHT621-1988
Photo by Nick Lardas
ABORTION
FREE PLACEMENT 
FREE PR EG . TEST 
MEDICAID ACCEPTED
CALL
595-4220
Controlled Parenthood 
Suite 55 
200 W. 72nd St. N.Y.C., N.Y.
Safe - Low-Cost - Confidential 
A Non-Profit Organization
ENGINEERING AIDES
(STUDENTS)
SEVERAL POSITIONS - LOCAL
FULL AND PART-TIME 
S7,000 + FREE TUITION
Excellent chance for engineering studentsany discipli 
ideally mechanicalwork with 2-3 professional engineers.
WM. DEE PERSONNEL
2327 Murray Avenue 521-4650 Pittsburgh, Pa. 15217
PKT free-rolls in preliminary
*hoto by Rie W

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, April 17, 1973
|lNlllNlliaiNIJlMflaiNIHNHINIIINIIINl[INIIMIPIllMINlllNIIINllHWIIfaPllllNlHNIIINIIiaiNlllMIIINIHNHiaNllfNIIINIHMIHNIIINIIlNIHNllWn^lll^l|
I 
I
1 s
I 
I 
1 
II
I
i 
i 
i
I
I 
i
THE CA RNEG/E -MELLON UNIVERSITY NEWS SYSTEM PRESENTS
si
Dr. Schatz, Provost CIT,MIS and CFA 
Dean Bothner-By, Dean MIS 
Dean Toor, Dean CIT 
Dean Siekman, Associate Dean CIT
On a special show
Page2TH EARRN2 -2HuesHdy g2. 2TH2eH2T pr saH2aII
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
11I
I1
I
11
I
I
i
Student's and Faculty are invited to call in questions 
call 621-9728 or 01 Morewood House Phone.
AIRED LIVE ON 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 18, 1973 
7:30 pm 
WRCT/900
SPONSORED BY THE TARTAN AND WRCT/9
M!IiriaiMniMiIMIiaMIIMlHaTNIIINIIlNlliaiflNMIIINIIlNillNllNinNlllNIIINinNfnMIlMliaNlllNlllMnNTnaiNltlNniNlDNMlNUWINlllg^
