TARTAN
April 24, 1979 _____Volume 79, Number 28 Carnegie-Mellon University__________Pittsburgh, PA 15213 _________
BETA Wins Sweepstakes; ABT, KKG, CIA - Best Booths
photo by Ramanan photo by Katherine Hande photo by Katherine Hande
Silenieks resigns
by Brian Byrnes
Juris Silenieks, Head of the Modern 
Languages and Literatures Department, 
announced two weeks ago that he is leaving 
that post at the end of this semester.
Silenieks has been Department Head for 
ten years, and said that the department 
needed new blood. He wanted to resign 
two years ago, but H&SS Dean John 
Crecine persuaded him to remain until an 
evaluation of the department could be ad
ministered.
The evaluating visiting committee, ap
pointed by Crecine, worked for six months 
on both the department and the Transla
tion and English as a second Language 
Center. The committees final report, 
released in late March, recommended two 
directions to take; a merger of the Modern 
Language and English Departments, or the 
consolidation of the departments re
sources and the redefinition of its goals 
and concentrations. After discussion 
among faculty, the former appears to have 
been ruled out. Silenieks, however, did not 
exclude a merger of the department with 
History, but added, It is important how 
present programs are incorporated into the 
History Department.
Since its release, the report has come 
under considerable criticism for its strate
gic manipulation of data. Silenieks argues 
that the visiting committee report had 
underrated the facultys scholarship, over
estimated the cost of operation (the de
partment is one of CMUs cheapest on a 
per-unit basis, according to Silenieks), and 
failed to mention overhead monies the 
department collected recently.
Doug Coutts, acting director of the 
Translation/English Language Center, as
serted that the visiting committee only
Juris Silenieks has 
sign as Head, Mod. Lang
to reconsidered the one year he has been direc
tor, and therefore, could not possibly get
an accurate grasp of the centers programs.
continued on page 6
CMU Boosts Biological Sciences
"-"Tfcni"  '* Jeanette Bryan and Elliot Ohlberg
We want the Biological Science Department to be among the leaders of the field, 
i ll' t commented CMU President Richard Cyert
\ in a telephone interview last week. The
y w* central administration has promoted this
desire with approximately 1.6 million dol
lars and the leadership of MIS Dean Daniel 
Berg, according to MIS Assistant Dean Lois 
^I Kiss.
jdfBfk What have these dollars bought? Not
L lH much, other than six new professors, and 
A,  >= fur completely new research laboratories,
>, ^ Jg i I SgUm W  one which will more than double the
. 9ft 31 < departments space for teaching biologic f m m ical research techniques to students. The
 upgrading of this department from very 
0<^ lo outstanding is one f l^e major in* = vestments of the university this year. PresDr. Chien Ho will be the new Head of the Depart- ident Cyert explained that the initial decisment of Biological Sciences. ion to move more forcefully into biology
was made before he became president. 
Cyert agreed with the decision since it ap
peared that a wide variety of scientific dis
ciplines depend upon elements of molecul
ar biology for their own advancement. It 
became crucial for CMU to develop a bio
logical science program to rival the other 
excellent departments within the Mellon 
Institute of Science.
New People Include Dept. Head 
Dr. Chien Ho, currently at the Univer
sity of Pittsburgh, has been chosen to lead 
the department and will move his research, 
to Mellon Institutes sixth floor when the 
construction of his new laboratory is com
plete. Ho, a nationally respected expert on 
cell membranes and hemoglobin, had cer
tain needs and expected them to be met 
for the department,  according to Kiss. 
These needs apparently were promised or
continued on page 10
Draft Debate 
Alive at CMU
by Saul Carliner
Students packed Doherty Hall 2210 
last Wednesday afternoon to hear Profess
or Tom Kerr, GSIA, and Tom 0Neill, 
Friends of Peace Meeting House, speak on 
the legislation currently before Congress 
concerning reinstatement of the Draft.
Kerr told the predominantly male aud
ience that the Selective Service, a volunteer 
civil group which runs the Draft, was not 
disbanded when Congress stopped Draft 
registration in 1973 after the Vietnam War.
Because of alleged deficiencies in the 
AllVolunteer Force, Congress has been 
asked to consider reinstatement of the 
Draft. Congressional hearings on the sub
ject begin next month.
Kerr described aspects of specific legisla
tion: several bills ask for reinstatement of 
Draft registration; two bill specifically in
clude women; and two bills ask for induc
tion, the next step after registration, as 
early as July 1.
An alternative National Service bill 
is also under consideration. This bill allows 
participants to choose among a two-year 
term of duty, six months in the reserves, or 
a number in a draft lottery for a year in 
civil service. The American Civil Liberties 
Union (ACLU) questions the constitution
ality of such a bill on the grounds that it 
violates the Thirteenth Amendment.
The new Draft would be computerized, 
Kerr pointed out. As young men and wo
men turn 18 years of age, they would be 
automatically registered. The Selective Ser
vice would, by possible authority from 
Congress, scan government records present
ly protected by the Privacy Act (for exam
ple, IRS and Social Security files). Present
ly, these files are unavailable for such use 
under the Privacy Act requirements.
____ continued on page 9
Hill S pusher Joe Giansante strides across the finish line 
with Beta Theta Pis buggy Echo. Betas team finished the 
course in firrt place, with a time of 2:18.4, 0.6 seconds 
ahead of Pika'sPi-thon. (see story on page 25).
The booth depicting England, constructed by the brothers 
of ZBT, was awarded first place in the competition for
fraternities............
Complete coverage of Carnival 79 inside.
.............and, the sitfers of KKG took the fbrt prize among
sororities, with thefr depiction of China in thek booth. 
CIA presented Argentina in their award winning booth, 
among the Independents.

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN
Paying A Visit .
For six months, the visiting committee on the Modern 
Language Department and the Translation/ESL Center have 
gathered information, talked to faculty and staff, sent let
ters of inquiry to other schools, and spent numerous hours 
sifting through data to arrive at an open, just evaluation. 
Haven't they?
The recommendations were arrived at from interviews 
and discussions among many faculty members. Werent 
they?
The title "visiting committee can hardly be used. Three 
of the five committee members are CMU faculty members; 
the chairperson is the Assistant Dean of H & 55. Did the 
committee forget to mention that the Modern Language 
Department received little administrative support because 
it had to answer directly to the administration? It is ex
tremely difficult to get an unbiased outsiders opinion of 
matters when a majority of committee members is from 
the inside.
The TARTAN feels that the committee did not spend 
enough time talking with important faculty and start mem
bers in the Department and the Translation Center. Doug 
Coutts, acting Translation /ESL director, claims that com
mittee members, in their six months of work, talked to him 
for about fifteen minutes. Even then, they only discussed 
one aspect of the Center (one to which they devoted the 
most space in the report). Some important advisors within 
the Center were not even consulted or approached.
The committee failed to put into proper place the events 
and circumstances present in both the Translation Center 
and the Department. By focusing on only a small portion of 
the management and operation of the two bodies, they 
could not possibly arrive at proper recommendations by 
working on what they gathered.
It appears from the report that the Modern Languages 
Department and the Translation Center were viewed as iso
lated entities within the College. Juris Siienieks said , and 
the TARTAN agrees, that "the report can only be incom
plete, since, in a highly structured organization like this 
University, no administrative or academic unit can function 
in splendid isolation. 
Will the Department stay, merge, or be completely elim
inated? Dean Crecine reportedly discussed aspects of the sit
uation with President Cyert and Provost Arnold Weber. To
morrow, Crecine goes to the H & 55 College Council to fur
ther discuss the matter. Hopefully, Crecine will confer with 
Siienieks, Coutts, and other relevant factions in the language 
field before any decisions are finalized.
The TARTAN, the present Department leaders, and even 
the committee feel that languages must remain within the 
University in some form. We feel that the Department 
should be strengthened with better support from within the 
College. New faculty should be brought in to revive the De
partment and to allow it to find its own direction.
Last year, the administration came under fire for its de
cision to phase out the Music Education option. At that 
time, they allowed little input from faculty and students 
before the final decision was announced. Lets hope that 
history doesnt repeat itself with Modern Languages.
Burning Trash
Spring Carnival could have really ended with a bang, 
and we dont mean fireworks. Sunday night, someone 
who was apparently unhappy about the garbage collect
ion, set the large dumpster in the Skibo parking lot ablaze. The fraternities across the street sat against 
their walls, cheering when the fire engine came to put 
out the bonfire.
Whoever set the fire, and we know someone set it, 
didn't realize that the dumpster was sitting next to 
dry bushes that could have easily caught fire if left alone. The bushes lead around the sides of the Skibo 
parking lot, where cars were parked. The fire could 
have spread to the Skibo main building.
A practical joke is one thing, and arson is another. 
Lets leave bonfires to camps and Homecoming rallies. 
And if you want to get rid of your garbage, call the 
haulers.
Brian Byrnes 
Managing Editor
?
Letters
Editor:
Draft bills opposed
Recently we have become 
aware of several legislative pro
posals concerning the military 
draft (and one concerning a un
iversal service). I am opposed to 
peacetime military induction. Fur
thermore, I am as seriously op
posed to specific aspects of the 
proposals concerning the regis
tration process itself;
1. The transfer of the Selective 
Service System from civilian to 
Defense Department control;
2. Waiver of the Privacy Act;
3. Automatic registration of cit
izens without their particular 
awareness.
I am completely opposed to 
the National Youth Service Act 
sponsored by Rep. McCloskey of 
California and others, as well as to 
all the military draft proposals. 
My reasons include:
1. The proposals are unnecessary;
2. They are of questionable valid
ity in a free peacetime society;
<3. Their acceptance and imple
mentation will tend to encourage 
war rather than guard peace.
Since the media have done so 
little to infrom the public of these 
proposals, I have requested copies 
of the bills in addition to expres
sing the above remarks to several 
US Congressmen. I hope all per
sons who have an opinion in this 
matter will also express them
selves appropriately.
John G. Suhayda 
Senior
WHS re-evaluated
Editor:
I was greatly disturbed by the 
Womens Health Services article in 
the April 10 issue of the TAR
TAN. The article portrays WHS as 
a benevolent non-profit organiza
tion when in fact this is not true. 
In an article I wrote for the Steel 
City Star I documented a case 
where a pregnant girl and her hus
band were clearly sold or talked 
into choosing abortion by Miriam 
Sukernek, a counselor there. This
claim was challenged by Leah 
Saylesexecutive director of
WHS, and the coupl offered affi
davits attesting to their counseling 
session experience. In light of the 
fact that WHS is supported almost 
entirely by the money collected 
for abortions, one must wonder if 
this couples experience is unique. 
I dont think so. It seems Wom
ens Health Services hard sell ap
proach to, the right to choose is 
becoming less of a secret. It must 
also cast doubt about the nature 
and quality of their new services.
Abortion is just one of the 
many products and services that 
make up the human reproductive 
industry. I strongly urge the staff 
of the TARTAN and all people to 
give careful consideration to the 
society that spawns such organiza
tions as WHS and to evaluate the 
social implications of its opera
tion. We must scrutinize and con
demn any institution or organiza
tion-legal or social, that is involv
ed with the systematic destruction
TARTAN
Volume 79April 24, 1979Number 29
Editor-in-Chief: 
Managing Editors:
Business Manager: 
Assistant Editor: 
News Editors:
Features Editor 
FOLIO Editor 
Entertainment Editor 
Sports Editors
Photography Editor: 
Art Director:
Jean Pellegrini 
Neil Adler 
Brian Byrnes 
Karen Stevens 
Mory Brenner 
Doug Kirsop 
Karen Ravets 
Sue Borg 
Lisa Amowitz 
Alan Spero 
Perry Colosimo 
Howard Turner 
Robert Zusman 
Tom Megalis
Production Assistants: Damon Burke, Mary Weltz, Melody Mazzie
Copyright 1979 by the Carnegie-Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit or 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Government 
of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; (412) 5782111, 
2112 or 2113. Business Offices: Skibo 52; (412) 578-2111.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

---------------------------------------------------

Martin Greenstein, a graduate student in the Physics Dept., offers his rebuttal to Dr. Wolfenstein and Ray Brock, also of the 
Physics Dept.VIEWS
University Professor Lincoln 
Wolfenstein and graduate student 
Ray Brock of the Physics Depart
ment provided a service to the 
community by writing an op-ed 
article for the TARTAN of April 
17. I was a college student of the 
late Sixties who was drafted. I 
worked for two years in a hos
pital as a conscientious objector 
in alternate service to the mili
tary draft. Now I am finishing my 
PhD in Physics. I definitely was 
one of those students who had 
to think almost daily about the 
draft.
In their article, the two physi
cists called for campus debate on 
the issue. I believe that they are 
right and that it is quite urgent.
To open the debate, I, perhaps 
unexpectedly considering my 
backround, welcome the return of 
the draft. This is because I am 
convinced, without hard data, 
that the majority of the uncom
missioned soldiers are enlisted not 
out of free will, but because of 
lack of equal economic and educa
tional opportunity elsewhere._____
Economic and educationa^p^" 
portunity is a lousy reason to join 
the armed forces. But this is what 
the various services advertise to 
enlist people. The only ethical 
reason to join the military is to 
help defend the country. As an 
aside, I should mention that as I 
look for employment myself, 
some of the best offers are in the 
defense industry. Yes, Virginia, 
there is a military-industrial com
plex and it will put a bomb down 
your chimney some merry Christ
mas. I, not unexpectedly, see 
some people taking jobs in this 
area not because they want to. 
but because it is their only job 
offer in science and engineering.* 
Again, a lousy reason to join the 
business.
Therefore, admittedly without 
data, I conclude that the armed 
forces suck people in even though 
they claim to be all-volunteer 
Now, one argument against the 
draft is that it is involuntary ser
vitude. Let us consider this: the 
military says enlist and you will
a last hope of many minorities 
especially in Pittsburgh, of get
ting the education that much oi 
the rest of society gets in the pub
lic schools. For in Pittsburgh, 
schools are segregated and segre
gated schools mean unequal edu
cation. Go ask the Supreme 
Court.
The reason I was not inducted 
into the army was that I stated to 
my draft board convincingly in 
oral argument that I was moral
ly opposed to war. The argument 
that I used was that wars consist
ed of battling armies. In an army 
one took orders. If one did not 
follow orders, he was often shot 
(in wartime). Some of these or
ders might be against my moral 
code. I, therefore, could not al
low myself, if possible, 10 be put 
into a position where I would 
have to violate my morality to 
stay alive. Killing the enemy is 
not what I was opposed to, as
suming we are fighting in selfdefense. It is the other things
that accompany war that I am op
posed to.
Now, everyone knows that 
Americans would never give il
legal orders on the battlefield. My 
Lai (this was a village that was 
massacred by American troops in 
the Vietnam War) was a onetime 
perversion by unAmerican sol
diers. I hope that you do not be
lieve these last statements. As an 
example of immorality in civil
ian life, remember, earlier I men
tioned the Pittsburgh Public 
Schools. They are operating in 
violation of the law, and they are 
doing it defiantly for all to see. 
Many people here support their 
actions. On a battlefield, there 
are few reporters to tattle. When 
an illegal command is given, many 
soldiers may not only follow it, 
but will actually support it. It 
might be suicide to go against the 
tide.
Hence, getting back to the 
draft, we must have everyone involved in consciously evaluating
7nnr"moraT1ininc[ardw
ing to the military defense of our 
country. We must have a strong 
military defense. Only a fool 
would think otherwise. But if this 
be a necessary evil, let the im
morality all be on the other na
tions sides. Let the military be 
populated from the people as a 
whole, not only by those sucked 
in. Furthermore, let those of us 
that tolerate the lack of ethics 
(such as the example concerning 
the schools) in our society as a 
whole, serve and serve with no 
exception. There will be no short
age of recruits. Meanwhile, the 
rest of us will either join the mili
tary with a desire to clean it up 
or will declare themselves opposed 
to the war. And these people who 
object, let-them serve the country 
in a humanitarian way so that 
through their efforts we finally 
will have a nation which can serve 
as a model for all nations to fol
low. When we have it, there will 
truly be no more war for we will 
havfe no enemies and no nation 
will have us theirs.more Letters
of human life for any reason.
Kris Mamula 
Class of 76
Correction
Editor:
The April 10 TARTAN includ
ed an article about Stuart Sunas 
tedious work of dedication, The 
Steel Menagerie on the cut. In 
fact, a paraphrase of that article 
states that Stuart Suna developed 
the art over a three and a half year 
period and constructed the pieces 
in thirteen hours of hard work. 
This is false.
Steel Menagerie was devel
oped by a group of students late 
the evening beiore it appeared on 
the cut. This group was clowning 
around under the influence, and 
the menagerie was born. In this 
case, the work was not a one man 
show by Suna. It was pure group 
spontaneity.
I do not put all the blame on 
the TARTAN. In this case, I be
lieve that Stuart Suna got a little 
too bigheaded about himself and 
presented the TARTAN a very 
convincing story.
Jim Halpem 
Alone & frightened
Editor:
Where is the sizeable gay com
munity at CMU that was men
tioned in Sherry Siegels column? 
Why is it necessary that this seg
ment of the campus community 
remain hidden or invisible? Are 
there secret meetings? Do the 
members recognize each other 
with secret coded messages?
I dont want to start any point
less discussions about Fruits and 
Vegetables, but I do feel that 
students who are gay should not 
have to make an effort to hide 
their sexual preference, especially 
on a college campus, which is sup
posed to be one of the most liber
al places around.
There should be some kind of 
campus service that deals with 
homosexuality specifically, if 
there is such a sizeable commun
ity, so that students who are gay,
or think they are, wouldnt feel so 
alone, isolated and frightened.
I ask that you withhold my 
name, because I am one of those 
who feels alone, isolated and 
frightened.
Name Withheld Upon Request
Pro-Nuke
Editor:
Letters of the type Wesley See
ley wrote in last weeks TARTAN 
concerning nuclear powers future 
serve no purpose when they spend 
so much space attacking the cred
entials of opponents (Fred Siegels 
simplicity is not the issue) and 
so little on facts. If the pro-nuc
lear types are going to convince 
that large'segment of the popul
ation who has not made up its 
mind (this writer included), they 
are going to have to answer some 
hard questions, none of which was 
addressed in Mr. Seeleys diatribe:
-What is the cost of a nuclear 
accident, given its admittedly min
uscule probability?
-What is to be done with nuc
lear waste? We have seen the ef
fects of years of non-nuclear 
waste on rivers and oceans. Are 
we going to add radioactive con
tamination to the ever-growing 
list of environmental pollutants?
-What are the effects of lowlevel radiation such as that which 
leaked from the Three Mile Island 
plant? There is considerable con
troversy among medical experts 
regarding this question.
-What are the alternatives? Can 
sun, wind, et al. be utilized for 
power production efficiently? Will 
the technology of this big business 
oriented economy be allowed to 
direct itself toward this end?
I do not profess to have any 
answers. Unfortunately, apparent
ly nobody does. It therefore 
seems reasonable, given the uncer
tainty of outcomes, to halt nuc
lear expansion until society is pro 
vided the information needed to 
make a rational decision.
D. Mark Kennet 
Junior, Economics
Anti-Nuke
Editor:
Mr. Seeleys letter repeats the 
old myth that there has never 
been a fatality in a nuclear plant. 
In fact, 3 people died in an acci
dent at the SL-1 plant (Idaho 
Falls, ID) in 1961; 2 died in an 
accident at the Surry Plant (Nor
folk, Va) in 1972; 4 died in a 
Mexico City plant accident 
around 1963, and hundreds were 
killed in a nuclear plant failure 
in the Ukraine in 1958.
He also brings out the dangers 
of coal as an energy resource on 
the assumption that it is the only 
alternative to nuclear. He seems to 
have forgotten about natural gas, 
hydroelectric, wind solar, biofuel, 
geothermal, wave tidal, and ocean 
thermal power (which was develcase, a coal-fired plant cant make 
an entire state uninhabitable. A 
nuclear plant can, and someday 
will, if we dont stop building 
them.
Barton Levenson 
Sour note
Editor:
It is really a shame that a man 
with as much talent and energy as 
Robert Page doesnt pour that tal
ent and energy into his own music 
department. Tonights Baroque 
Ensemble concert was a typical 
example of slopping together a 
program for the sake of hacking 
through it, instead of making 
beautiful music.
The Bach Harpsichord Concer
to in D Minor was brilliantly exec
uted by Brett Duggan, but unfor
tunately brutally slaughtered by 
Bob Page. Not only did he ignore 
the soloist by having his back to 
him, but he was insensitive to his 
tempos, nuances, and at times, 
his beat.
In complete contrast to this 
performance was the first num
ber on the program, an oboe con
certo performed by Susan De 
Camp and conducted by Susan 
Melnick, who is a first year con
ducting major. There was the ut
most of communication between
soloist and conductor. Phrasing 
was carefully worked out and 
musicality shone through as 
should a performance by intel
ligent musicians. It gave me faith 
that musicality does exist in the 
Music Department at CMU, des
pite the fact that it is well-hid den.
Bob Page could well learn from 
his students; maybe spend more 
time on musics internal message 
and less time on its external ap
pearance.
Name Withheld Upon Request
Conserve!
Editor:
The following incident may 
amuse some and outrage others.
On Monday, April 16, a meet
ing of CMU Trustees and admin
istrators was held, preceded by a 
lunch, in the Mellon Institute 
Building. That morning a sign was 
posted in the fourth-floor lobby 
reading CONFERENCE & 
SOCIAL ROOM: USE ELEVA
TOR TO 3rd FLOOR. About 11 
AM the sign was removed by an 
unidentified individual and re
turned a few minutes later neatly 
altered to read CONFERENCE 
ROOM & SOCIAL ROOM: USE 
STAIRS TO 3rd FLOOR. HELP 
US CONSERVE ENERGY At 
about 11:00 the sign again disap
peared, presumably by order of an 
unidentified administrator, and 
about 15 minutes later a new sign, 
identical with the original, appear
ed in its place, presumably 
through the hasty efforts of an 
unidentified employee.
Carnegie-Mellon University has 
many research projects directed 
towards energ> conservation, fuel 
economy, and environmental pro
tection. Several of them are con
ducted or administered by the 
Carnegie-Mellon Institute of Re
search, housed in the Mellon Insti
tute Building. CMIR has also con
ducted conferences in those areas 
in that building.
As a result of the astuteness 
and prompt action of the uniden
tified administrator, Trustees ar
riving through the fourth-floor en
trance were presented an oppor
tunity to observe the genuineness 
of their Universitys committment 
to energy conservation.
Unidentified Observer 
Faculty MemberMI
Honor or not?
Editor:
I note that, according to last 
weeks TARTAN, CMU is plann
ing to award an honorary degree 
to Irving Shapiro, president of E.I. 
duPont de Nemours. No doubt he 
will be honored as an innovative 
and effective leader in the busi
ness community, or something of 
the sort. However, I think that 
members of this community, par
ticularly those concerned about 
questions of civil liberties, may be 
interested in knowing a bit more 
about Mr. Shapiros past.
At the end of the 1940s, the 
witch hunts and red-baiting of 
what is commonly known as the 
McCarthy era had gotten into full 
swing. Senator Joseph McCarthy, 
however, was merely one of the 
worst symbols of a period of 
much more general political re
pression. One of the most impor
tant cases of the time was the 
trial of eleven national leaders of 
the Communist Party for their po
litical views only, under the Smith 
Act. Not only did this trial spear
head similar actions across the 
rest of the cquntry that caused 
considerable suffering for hun
dreds of Communists, but it was 
also one of the major means by 
which forces of reaction and opp
ression instilled a paralyzing fear 
of political activity into many 
times as many other progressive 
and liberal people, the stifling ef
fects of which can often be felt to 
this day.
Irving Shapiro served as an at
torney in the Justice Department 
during the period from 1941 to
1951. During the last two years of 
his tenure with the Justice De
partment, he was one of the gov
ernments chief .attorneys in its 
prosecution of the eleven Commu---------------------------------------------------

Tim Cimino, Senior, Chemistry, discusses CMU-style problem-solvingand its relativity to our every day lives.VIEWS
One thing i like aoout desper
ate people is that they make such 
good listeners. Suggest to some
one that they might benefit if 
they change their ways and they 
will often get indignant or critical. 
That is, unless theyre having 
troubles. People who have a prob
lem on their hands (like anyone 
who realizes he doesnt have all 
the answers) usually listen very 
politely and actually seem to con
sider what you have to say. 
Theyre ready to change because 
its so painful not to; theyre re
ceptive to new ways of dealing 
with problems because theyve 
run out of ideas themselves.
Whatever problem were facing, 
be it a faltering relationship, lone
liness, or some other crisis, it is 
open to some of the same meth
ods we use for solving classical 
(school) problems: breaking it 
down into bite-sized pieces; re
search, whether it be by talking to 
people, reading books, or doing 
experiments; and solution by analogy-in as much as one problem 
resembles another, their solutions 
are similar, hence the value of past 
experienceour own and others. 
And of course we use reasoning, 
both deductive (going from an ini
tial point to the final point in a 
logical sequence) and inductive 
(starting at the final point and 
working backward). *
Yet our day-to-day problems 
are usually more complex than 
the ones we get in school. There
are no ready-made formulas, nor 
are there wise professors to tell us 
just exactly what the problem is. 
Often there is no specific dead
line, though the problem may 
steadily worsen. Sometimes, there 
is not enough time to develop a 
plan of action before it becomes 
necessary to act. In other cases, 
the problem is dynamic, so that 
by the time we arrive at a solu
tion, the problem will have chang
ed so much that the solution no 
longer works (relationships are 
like this). So, while we may apply 
traditional methods to these kinds 
of problems, we need something 
more.
Solving a problem can be divid
ed into two stages: a problem 
break-down stage (analysis) and a 
plan build-up stage (synthesis). 
Unfortunately, many people rush 
through their analysis; they make 
the wrong assumptions, jump to 
conclusions, neglect some alterna
tives, or even act before theyve 
given the problem any thought at 
all. Even before they have begun 
to plan, they have failed. What 
they need is a systematic analy
sissomething like the sway of a 
cobra before it strikesone that 
allows them to spot the problem, 
find their balance, and gauge the 
distance to the target.
This withdrawal or detachment 
is important fair several reasons. 
The first is that we need to com
pletely define and understand the 
problem. Sometimes, only by
standing back to take in alTit^T 
mensions and implications can we 
approach the problem properly. 
We ought to consider the various 
emotional, physical, and spiritual 
ramifications. We should look at it 
from different perspectives (in 
2000 years, will it still matter?) 
and from different viewpoints 
(maybe other peoples maybe 
Gods). It helps to become like a 
detached observer. In this way, we 
can better concentrate, temporari
ly outdistancing our emotions 
(this does not mean that we 
should ignore our emotions.)
Detaching allows us also to re
lax; relaxing helps us as we begin 
to examine the problem, rephrase 
its questions, and toy with differ
ent ideas. If we werent somewhat 
removed from the problem, it 
would overwhelm us so that we 
would avoid even thinking about 
itand never make any progress. 
And while this mental rehearsing 
of situations, possibilities, and al
ternatives (even the absurd ones) 
gives us a better grasp on the 
problem, it is more importantly 
the prelude to creative insights 
and inspiration.
But creativity may not come if 
we are not refreshed. One theory 
holds that while we rest, our sub
conscious is churning away, pro
ducing new thoughts or recalling 
forgotten memories which are 
then leaked to our conscious 
minds as insight or intuition. (In
tuition, or the feeling of knowing
something that we shouldnt feel 
we know, is an invaluable com
plement to reasoning; though per
haps less trustworthy, it has a 
much wider range of application.) 
Resting, mentally as well as physi
cally, lets us heal from previous 
exertions as well as prepare for 
the plans we finally decide to car
ry out. Without a good rest, we 
are not capable of our best ef
forts.
This withdrawal may also be a 
time of looking inward at our
selves. Unlike classical problems, 
our day-to-day problems (and 
their solutions) are somewhat de
pendent on our personalities. 
Thus, we must look at ourselves 
honestly (our desires, needs, abil
ities, and feelings) to see how they 
partially determine the problem 
and its solution. We should also be 
aware of the forces that act on us, 
in order to decide whether to ac
cept them, resist them, or redirect 
them. Furthermore, we should 
realize that our emotions dont 
come directly from the situation, 
but from the aspects of the situ
ation that we dwell on. It is 
through our underlying attitudes 
that these external aspects are 
translated into internal emotions. 
Thus, it is not always the situation 
that'needs to be remedied; some
times just changing our attitudes 
is enough. Just by having the right 
state of mind, we can have some 
control over how a problem is 
manifested.
But detachment becomes es
cape if we dont return to the 
problem. At some point we lose 
more than we gain by delaying. 
When we feel the moments right, 
its time to connect, to carry out 
whatever decision weve made. In
connecting, we deal directly with 
the problem. We make a wave and 
then ride it. This is the passionspontaneous, whole-hearted 
forceful, pure.
Up to this point, nothing is 
really new; in one way or another, 
everyone does about the same 
thing-they think about a prob
lem, then they think up an answer 
to it. Yet, by detaching again, 
after having connected, we can 
evaluate our action and reanalyze 
the situation. By constantly skipping back and forth between de
tachment and connection, we can 
avoid getting lost in thought or 
(the other extreme) caught up in 
emotion. Like a guided missle, in 
which successive in-flight correc
tions bring it right into the target, 
the constant reworking and re
viewing of the situation is a way 
in which we may attain a dynamic 
balance, one capable of dealing 
with our dynamic problems. Be
yond this, and most importantly, 
we arrive at a potential mechan
ism for enriching and changing 
our lives. In this way, by meeting 
(or making) and solving problems, 
we accept the challenge to be 
more human and the chance to 
become more alive.
more Letters r
nists. As such, he played an im
portant role in the suppression of 
civil liberties in the period. 
It was the New York Times' de
scriptions of the skill with which 
he went about this work that first 
brought him to the attention of 
the legal department at duPont, 
which promptly offered him his 
first position with that company.
Academic institutions are supp
osed to be, nay, must be to achieve their proper ends, places 
where even the most unpopular 
views can be advocated, debated, 
and criticized in the search for 
truth, without fear of political re
prisals. But it is very difficult for 
them to function as such if the so
ciety in which they are inextricab
ly embedded does not itself pro
tect the freedom of speech.
I must therefore question the 
propriety of an academic institu
tions granting of an honorary de
gree to someone whose very succ
essful career is founded ultimately 
upon actions that so seriously 
weakened the social foundations 
upon which the very existence of 
such an institution as we know it 
rests.
Daniel Mark Rosenblum 
A poem
Editor:
The following poem first ap
peared in the Becker County Rec
ord Detroit Lakes, Minnesota. It 
was picked up by the U.S. Press 
Association and passed along to 
its subscribers. The poem was 
found on the body of a nineteenyear-old soldier in Vietnam.
Look, God: I have never spoken 
to you, but now
I want to say: How do you do?
You see, God, they told me you 
didnt exist
And like a foolI believed all of 
this.
Last night from a shell-hole I saw 
your sky
Figured right then they had told 
me a lie.
Had I taken the time to see the 
things you made,
Id know they werent calling a 
spade a spade.
I wonder, God, if youd shake my 
hand.
SomehowI feel you will under
stand.
Funny, I had to come to this hell
ish place
Before I had time to see your 
face.
Well, I guess there isnt much 
more to say.
But Im sure glad, God, I met you 
today.
I guess the zero-hour will soon be 
here.
But Im not afraid since I know 
you are here.
The signalwell, GodIll have to
go,1 like you lots-this I want you to 
know.
Looks like this will be a horrible 
fight.
Who knows-I may come to your 
house tonight.
Though I wasnt friendly with you 
before,
I wonder, God-if youd wait at 
your door.
Look-Im crying, me shedding 
tears,
I wish Id known you these many 
years.
Well, Ill have to go now, 
good-bye.
Strange-since I met youIm not afraid to die.
Campus Crusade for Christ 
Catch 22Editor:
A fellow graduate student ap
proached me today asking to bor
row $5 so he could get an advance 
on his monthly pay. I replied, 
Let me get this straight; youre 
broke and need an advance, but 
you have to pay the administra
tion $5 to get the advance, so you 
want to borrow $5. Sounds like 
Catch 22 to me.
This brought to mind the other 
quartering and dollaring that this 
school indulges in. Want a little 
cash from Entropy when writing 
a check for a purchase? First 
cough up a quarter to cover the ( 
expense of a bounced check. It is 
cheaper to go to Giant Eagle, 
theyll cash your check for free, if 
you have one of their check cash
ing cards. My GiantEagle card 
carries more respect apparently 
than my CMU ID.
This type of quartering and 
dollaring is found again if you 
cash a check at the Cashiers Of
fice (.25) or if you want to use 
tennis courts during the summer 
months (S3). I must admit, use of 
the courts was free during Febru
ary.
All this seems to add up to a 
grand Catch22 or should it be 
Catch CMU?
John West 
Chemistry-Grad
THE ROCKWELL 
SPACE SHUTTER 
TRANSPORTATION
SYSTEM
Presented by
JOHN S. LATIN
THURSDAY 
APRIL 26,1979 
7:30 P.M. 
WHERRETT ROOM,
SKI BO
An AIESEC-CMU EVENT
FREE AND OPEN TO THE PUBLIC

---------------------------------------------------

April 24,1979-TAR I AN-Page 5
Senate Report
Carnival Expressed
The pageantry, excitement, and compe
tition of Spring Carnival at CMU is over for 
another year.
I was really worried about the w6aiher 
at the beginning of the week, said Carolyn 
Welty, Spring Carnival chairperson. And 
even though Midway watchers were free
zing on Tuesday night, the weather got 
warmer and ended up as the best Carnival 
weather in recent years.
Thursdays Midway opening saw the us
ual host of rides, plus, as Welty stated, the 
most colorful Midway Ive ever seen. The 
theme for this years Midway was Coun
tries.
The color was not complete at the open
ing, however, as many organizations 
worked late into Thursday night trying to 
finish booths. Welty and Midway coordina
tor Steve Doctor attributed the booth 
problems to .the cold weather at the begin
ning of the week and power line problems 
that plagued the Midway throughout the 
weekend.
Doctor explained that the power prob
lem was due mainly because the Carnival 
committee was notified of a power system 
change on Tuesday night. This meant that 
Tom Starr, Power chairman, and the rest of 
the committee had to buy new equipment 
and redesign the power system. Both Welty 
and Doctor praised Starr for his excellent 
job in suppling power to all but two booths 
by 3:30 AM Friday.
Booth judging was far closer in the fra
ternity and sorority competition than in 
recent years. For the frats, ZBTs England 
came out ahead with 722 points, only two
ahead of SAEs Brazil. Kappa Sigma would 
but they were disquali----6 a different game on Satur
day than they did on Friday.
In the sororities, KKG won first prize 
for the second year in a row, with a theme 
of China. The DGs Scotland came in sec
ond just two points behind.
Leading the independents was CIAs Ar
gentina booth shaped like a soccer ball. 
The quality of the booths was exemplified 
when someone offered to buy DTDs Eiffel 
Tower. KKG and DG also came in first and 
second in the T-shirt competition.
From the opening of the Jazz concert 
and the standing room omly crowd for 
Michael Marlin to the closing of the semiformal dance, the SDC tent was another 
major center of activity.
Everybody was into the spirit of 
things, said Jon Stefanacci, Carnival 
chairperson. Though no one showed up for 
the plank joust, probably because it con
flicted with the SDC Gong Show, the other 
events went well, Stefanacci said. The egg 
toss was won by the team of Carol Nemetz 
and Robert LeGatta. Last years winners of 
the relay races appropriately named them
selves The Defenders this year. They 
bore out their name as they won the relay. 
A six-man team" of ATO brothers took the 
the tug-of-war crown. I should have timed 
it; it was so incredibly fast, said Stefan
acci about the time it took David Moret, 
pie-eating contest champion, to eat his pie.
The warm, clear weather saw large 
crowds and fast times at this years Sweep
stakes.
Tuition Increase?
Theres a trend in the seventies for 
states to invest less in higher education.
Student leaders at Tufts acknowledged 
that some inflationary expenses were ex
pected, but posited that they should at 
least stay within the suggested seven per
cent increase of President Carters Wage 
and Price Stability guidelines. Tufts finan
cial aid officials countered that Tufts was 
exempted from the guidelines because the 
school ran a deficit last year.
The reply is typical, as many administra
tors claim to have made *good-faith ef
forts to stay within the seven percent limit. 
At Stanford, for example, the trustees 
aimed for the guidelines, but came up with 
an 8.9 percent increase in the undergradu
ate assessment, and a 13.5 percent increase 
in med school tuition. Fa* Stanford, they 
said, the wage-price guidelines raise seri
ous conceptual and calculational difficul
ties.
But while inflations tolls are hard to 
document, the effects of the enrollment 
decline are only too clear. A number of 
schools are compensating by raising tui
tion, if not for undergrads, then for gradu
ate, foreign and non-resident students. The 
University of North Carolina system, for 
one, is facing a possible 10 percent tuition 
increase for in-state students and 24 per
cent for out-of-staters. At U-Mass, a 
measure passed last summer raising nonby Constance M. Smith
At its April 17 meeting, the Student 
Senate passed an Audience participation 
motion sponsored by the Rules Commit
tee. This period will last approximately ten 
minutes, and will follow the rdll call. This 
time was added in addition to the Points 
of Discussion period at the end of the 
meeting. Minutes of Senate meetings will 
now be posted around campus, especially 
in Skibo, the libraries, and academic buil
dings, it was decided.
Student feedback as to the allocation of 
the Activities Fee was again discussed. 
Robert Linnett of SUPA presented the fol
lowing explicit proposal or allocation of 
monies:
Students shall apportion their fees to 
one degree or another. Proportions such as 
20%80% have been suggested. The cur
rent proposal suggests 80% student discre
tion.
-The reserve could be allocated by the 
Student Senate Finance Committee.
-Safeguards against special interest 
fraud can be constructed. First, no more 
than X% of the students allocation could 
be given to any club. Also, students can be 
advised that they must allocate to at least 
X-number of clubs. These are possibilities.
-First semester freshman funds will be 
put into a Finance Committee pool.
-The survey to all students can be put
V
into the 3D package. A cost investigation 
as to the feasibility of the proposal should 
be made.
-Any student who does not allocate his/ 
her fee will have the fee allocated in the 
same proportion as students who do vote. 
This should be made explicit so that all stu
dents will vote.
-Some organizations offer explicit ser
vices, such as the Explorer Clubs tangible 
benefits. Some offer less tangible, implicit 
benefits, such as the TARTAN. Student 
Senate should define some minimal level of 
support for those organizations.
The General Campus and Information 
Committee will be conducting a use survey 
to determine what students would like to 
have in a Student Union building.
During the Points of Discussion per
iod, Senator Ralph Sherman of H&SS pre
sented the idea that Senate should take a 
stand on the reinstatement of the draft. As 
the draft will affect a large portion of the 
student body, students need to be aware of 
the issue.
There was also discussion on the pos
sibility of abolishing the ex-officio seats 
controlled by UFO, SDC, and CCCP (a 
now defunct organization). These seats are 
a holdover from the earlier period when 
representation was divided by residence 
area rather than by school.
Buggies Bang Up
resident tuition from $1550 to $3150 in 
the next three years. Two bills in the Texas 
senate would triple graduate student tui
tion, and nearly double foreign student tui
tion.
Regardless of how tuition amounts are 
assigned, though, the major income to pub
lic colleges come by way of state appropri
ation, and those amounts greatly influence 
tuition rates.
In Ohio, Governor James Rhodes pro
posed budget includes only half of the 
three percent increase requested. Wright 
State, Cleveland State, and Kent State are 
all expecting tuiton increases.
There are, moreover, increasing indica
tions that not all taxpayers want to aid 
higher education as in the past. Many 
people
feel that higher education whould be a 
luxury, and the bill should be footed by 
those who receive it.
Thus, a number of states are attempting 
to increase the percentage a student pays 
of the cost of ecucation. Nationwide, that 
share averages about 22 percent. At 
U-Mass, the current level is 15 percent. The 
Massachusetts Taxpayer Foundation thinks 
it should be more like 25 or 30 percent. 
The bill it sponsored to that effect is in the 
legislature, along with a measure that 
forces no --residents to assume 95 percent 
of tiie costs of education.
Although Marianne Dwyer, Sweepstakes 
chairperson, and Dave Lamont, Safety 
chairperson, expressed concern over the 
large number of accidents, no one was seri
ously injured. The only accident on Friday 
that had a possible effect on the final out
come was a spin-out due to mechanical 
problems of CIAs B buggy.
The biggest accident occured on Satur
day when the CIA-A buggy spun out just 
after coming into the chute. Phi Kappa Al
pha's B buggy then found a head on col
lision inevitable. CIA was found at fault, 
and given sixth place, with no time. .
Beta-As time of 2:18.4, posted against 
ATO-A in the first of the final heats proved 
to be the time to beat, however, which 
Sigma Nu-A and Pika-A failed to do in the 
last of the final heats. This is the second 
year in a row that Echo, Betas A 
buggy, has taken first place.
Beta liked the idea of sticking with the 
number two, as they also took first place in 
design competition for the third year in a 
row. Second place went to SDCs Blue 
Haze, and third to Delta Tau Deltas Cy
clone.
A dry course did little to eliminate acci
dents in this years Sweepstakes.
I was surprised there were so many ac
cidents,  said Dave Lamont, Safety chair
person. He attributed about half of the 
problems to poor road conditions and the 
other half to what he called carelessness 
and underdesign. He also said the drivers 
of all the buggys that had accidents should 
be commended for minimizing potentially 
larger accidents.
Dave Fiedler, Pi Kappa Alpha buggy 
chairman said that their B buggy could 
have been ready to race again half an hour 
after their crash with Carnegie Involvement 
Associations (CIA)-A buggy in the chute.
However, they decided it would be in their 
best interest not to rerun. A dent in front 
was the only serious damage sustained by 
the PIKA buggy, and the driver was un
hurt, according to Fiedler.
He sited their emphasis on safety as the 
reason their driver was not hurt.
All three of CIAs drivers were involved 
in accidents during Sweepstakes, but Tony 
Weatherby said that they were all caused 
by the buggys themselves, and not the dri
vers. He too said that both of their buggys 
are repairable.
Marianne Dwyer, Sweepstakes chairper
son explained why Fringe was granted a re
run on Saturday after their protest on Fri
day was not upheld. They placed in the 
top sixth in design, she said, so they re
ran for a time to determine if they were eli
gible. She was careful to point out that the 
run was only for time, and that they were 
disqualified from the actual race.
CIA-Bs crash in an alumni heat left the 
CIA womens team with no buggy to push. 
Kappa Sigma allowed them to use their 
buggy, and they posted the fastest wo
mens time. However, a protest from the 
other womens teams lead to the disqualifi
cation of the CIA team because of a rule 
which says the driver and all pushers must 
be members of the organization. The driver 
was Kappa Sigmas driver, which forced 
Dwyer to oust CIA.
Two other accidents were caused by 
steering problems. The steering on Delta 
Upsilons buggy froze, forcing them into 
the monument, and Phi Kappa Thetas 
steering fell apart during an alumni heat, 
said Lamont.
Dwyer also asked that we express her 
thanks to all who helped to make Sweep
stakes 79 a success.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6TARTANApril 24,1979
Civ Eng Prof Honored
Tung Au, CMU Professor of Engineer
ing, has been presented with a national 
award for excellence in teaching.
Au was one of 15 engineering faculty 
members to be honored with the Western 
Electric Fund Award for excellence in 
teaching, awarded by the American Society 
for Engineering Education. The awards 
are presented annually to outstanding 
teachers of engineering students to 
honor the recipients and to serve as an
incentive for them to continue to make 
significant contributions to engineering 
education.
Au, who has been a faculty member 
here for 22 years, holds a joint appoint
ment in the Department of Civil Engineer
ing, and Engineering and Public Policy. 
He was honored earlier this year by the 
American Society of Civil engineers which 
presented him with the Pittsburgh Civil 
Engineer Award for 1979.Award given to Engineering Professor Tung Au.
Unions Unpopular Among Faculty
Enrollments are going down. Faculty 
members jobs are threatened. Other jobs 
are hard to find. But even as pressures 
gather that normally would lead to an in
crease in union growth, the Carnegie Corp. 
is reporting that faculty union growth hit 
an 11-year low in growth in 1977.
Carnegies researchers - Joseph Garbarino and John Lawler, both of the 
University of California-Berkeley - found 
that faculty unions actually suffered a 
net loss of some 10,000 members. How
ever, faculty union growth has been, ac
cording to one observer, consistently 
.erratic since the late sixties. The major 
growth in union membership since then 
has been in Illinois and Ohio.
Yet faculty issues are heating up as 
colleges and universities retrench in antic
ipation of declining enrollments. College 
teaching jobs that lead to tenure are in
creasingly rare. (A recent Wall Street 
Journal account claimed that 2000 of the 
3000 English PH.Ds of 1978 wont be
able to find anything better than tem
porary employment). Retiring or mobile 
tenured professors are frquently not re
placed. If their positions are filled, its 
often with part-time teaching assistants.
All those factors make college teaching 
a very insecure profession, and create the 
kinds of tensions that have historically led 
other kinds of workers to seek the securi
ties unions offer.
One of the reasons more teachers 
havent joined unions in the face of those 
pressures is that many of the most easilyorganized schools have already been organ
ized. A majority of four-year colleges in 
states that allow public employees to bar
gain collectively have already held union 
elections. Two-year schools have, until
recently, been considered difficult cam
puses on which to organize.
Teachers on more than 800 campuses 
are currently represented by unions. The 
National Education Association (NEA) 
represents 56,000 members, with another
100,000 teachers split among the American 
Federation of Teachers and the American 
Association of University Professors.
NEA organizer Bob Miner speculates 
that another reason for the leveling off of 
union growth may be that when the econ
omy is uncertain, people dont like risking 
getting on managements bad side. Faculty 
members at eight schools voted down 
joining unions last year, while two schools 
(Jamestown College and New England Col
lege) dropped their affiliations.
Scholarships Received
The Andrew Carnegie Society has 
announced the recipients of this years 
$1000 merit scholarships.
rW,
The excavation in front of Baker Hall is part of the campus renovation.
Modern Language..
continued from page 1
Coutts explained that he was appointed 
acting director to keep the status quo and 
not improve any operations within the 
center.
Both Coutts and Silenieks, along with 
other faculty members, criticized the 
committee for not putting the department 
into a proper perspective as to its role with 
the college, as was done during the English 
Department evaluation two years ago. At 
the April 5 Faculty Senate meeting, 
Physics professor Hugh D. Young attacked 
the report for suspending all rules of logic 
and common sense . . . The committee 
affirms the importance of building a lan
guage program of excellence and promi
nence, but its only specific suggestion is to 
abolish the department.
Silenieks also said the report didnt 
mention that the department hardly 
received help from the central administra
tion to be different from what we are. 
The way the report is written, SileThe scholarships are awarded annually 
to a junior member of each of the four 
undergraduate colleges at CMU, based on 
the students outstanding academic achievement and potential, community 
involvement, and citizenship. This year, 
however, the special committee awarded 
two scholarships to Mellon Institute of 
Science.
The students are: Antoinette Coniglio, 
CFA, Art; Lauie Hollick, H&SS, Econ
omics; Karen Tisinai, MIS, Chemistry; and 
Jane Vaselenak, CIT, Chemical Engineer
ing.
Alumnus 
Accused,
Former CMU basketball standout 
George Harvey has pleaded guilty to two 
counts of house robbery. He entered his 
plea before criminal Divison Court Judge 
James McGregor. The 26-year-old Harvey is 
expected to testify against three other sus
pects arrested in connection with the rob
beries which took place last winter.
$14 hundred was stolen from homes in 
Pittsburgh and surronding suburbs.
Cyert Heads Group
Richard M. Cyert has been named to 
head a Policy Advisory Group for a major 
national effort to develop a set of indica
tors for higher education.
The 13 members of the Policy Advisory 
Group include top-level institutional and 
agency executives and leading researchers 
in the field of higher education manage
ment.
The intent of the project, Dr. Cyert 
said, is to develop indicators of the health 
of higher education in general, just as 
temperature and blood pressure are used as 
indicators of human health.
Cyert added that the indicators will be 
divided into three major categories: social, 
financial and quality. The issues that the 
indicators will address include: the net 
price of higher education to the students; 
the financial condition of the various 
sectors of higher education; the amount of 
choice and access available ta students; 
the impact of higher education on the 
community; the competency levels of 
graduates; the productivity of higher 
educaton; and the rate of return on edu
cation.
Civ E Awards
by Anne Cesnik
The Civil Engineering Department pre 
sented a group of scholarship awards on 
Friday, April 6. These scholarships are 
awarded to Civil Engineering students on 
the basis of scholarship and financial need. 
The following is a list of the awards and 
the students who received them:
The Harold Allen Thomas Scholarship 
Award: Jon Fricker, Jeffrey Benedict, 
Michael Bresko, Gianni Chieruzzi, David 
Conover, Anthony DiGioia, Harry Gray, 
Debra Kufert, Caryl Moskovitz, Mary 
Weeks.
The Herman B. and Esther M. Neiman 
Memorial Scholarships: David Dzombak, 
Sara Freestone, David McGhee, Scott 
Sibley, May Slava, Daniel Spikula* Thomas 
Tyson.
The Irving S. Paley Construction Indus
try Awards: Marc Brown, Richard Horbiak.
The Pennsylvania Drilling Company 
Scholarship Grants: Robert DOttavio,
Linda McNair.
The Ryan Homes, Inc. Scholarship 
Grants: Janel Smith, Peter Vujaklia.
The Richardson Gordon Awards were 
given to each member of the winning 
Senior Project team as determined by the 
Civil Engineering faculty. The members of 
this years winning team are: Michael 
Bollinger, Michae, Bresko, David Conover, 
Edward Goodre.; Vincent Lascko, Susan 
Martin, Anthony Victor, Joseph Wilson. 
The title of their project is The Flexural 
Performance of Steel Fiber Reinforced 
Concrete Beams.
nieks asserted, it is implied that out facul
ty is dedicated to mediocraty. We have the 
best A Phi O ratings in the University, and 
many of us have good publishing records. 
Crecine assured the faculty that they 
were not being blamed for the current 
problems. Languages are in trouble every
where, he asserted. People just arent 
electing languages to the extent they are 
used to, and those who are arent sticking 
With language instruction beyond the inter1 mediate level.
Silenieks was not totally against the 
report. We can criticize the report and 
some of the items in it, but the recommen
dations themselves may be fairly reason* 
able. Some of the recommendations were 
to focus resources on French, German and 
Spanish instruction and functional linguis
tic skills. The report said that courses in 
other languages should be provided only if 
there is enough interest (10 or more studnets registered for the course).
g?
$  $ 
 
    
  S ti 
1 ....
Student Senate 
Presents:
Audience Participation |
at Seven Oclock in the 
Wherrett Room on Every 
Tuesday Night

---------------------------------------------------

YearTuitionChange% of Change
1979-80$4100$400 :10.8
1978-79$3700$3008-8
1977-78S3400$3009.7
1976-77S3100$2006.9
1975-76$290000
1974-75$2900$40016.0
1973-74$250000
i 972-7 3$250000
1971-72S 2-500$30013.6
1970-71.$2200
income Comparison Fiscal 1978 to 1969
Sponsored Research Sponsored36 4 ------;-
Expense Comparison Fiscal 1976 to 1969
Continuing on the historical side, CMUs 
tuition has been considerably lower than 
its primary competitors from 1972-78. In 
1978-79, CMU's tuition was lower fian 18 
of its top 20 primary competitors ( a com
petitor is rated on the basis of the number 
of students lost to a particular institution). 
One should also examine the pattern of the 
tuition difference between CMU and its 
competitors. Clearly, our tuition is con
siderably lower than that of many other 
universities of the same caliber.
One must remember an important as
pect concerning this tuition recommen
dation : Its a recommoridatitfn for a tui
tion increase, for a year from this fall. 
Hence, most of the data and projections 
are made close to 24 months before the 
actual increase.
Armed with these basic facts. I'll now 
continue with the Tuition Committee Re
port.
Before a formal vote was taken, there 
was a considerable amount of discussion
Enrollment Trends and Application Data
The number of high school graduates 
will decrease from 3,127,000 in 1979 to 
2,679,000 in 1985, and the projected en
rollment in private 4 year colleges will de
crease from 385,000 in 1979 to 326,000
Financial Aid
A basic underlying assumption in the 
tuition increase is that Financial Aid (FA 
will be able to meet 100% of any students 
need. In fact, in the last 3 out of 4 years 
FA came up with more money than th<
SPECIAL REPORT: TUITION
Institution 1978-79 TuitionTuition Difference w. CMUTuition Change 1972-78Estimated Students to Competitor in 1977
Carnegie-Mellon$3,730$1,205
Cornell4,850+1,1201,85093
MIT4,880+1,150.1,86586
Penn4,825+1,0952,07574
RPI4,625+8951,87561
Penn State*1,263-2,46753348
Lehigh4,130+4001,48046
Case Western4,080+3501,58041
Pitt*1,366 ?  . -2,36436639
Washington U., 4,340+6101,69035
. Northwestern5,025+1,2952,32534
Johns Hopkins4,050+320NA34
U. of Rochester4,400+6701,275 31 ,
Tufts4,190+4601,10523
Boston U4,230+500:v. Ju22
Brown5,125+1,395zM$22
Princeton5,100+U702,10022
Yale5,150 +1,4202,25022
U. of Virginia*805-2,925NA19
Syracuse4,115+3851,41517
RISD3,775SSSSiSpt +451,22517
* In-State Tuition;  # IfH% v  ^'v ' V::3V' '  ' 
The following special report was written 
by Stuart Schlisserman, sophomore, H&SS, 
who served on the 78- '79 Tuition Com
mittee.
Within the next few weeks President 
Cyert will make a dcision on the proposed 
undergraduate tuition for 1980-81. This 
decision will be the end result of much re search and planning. The majority of infor
mation presented to Dr. Cyert came from 
the CMU Tuition Committee. This com
mittee, chaired by Dr. Orville Winsand, is 
composed of staff, faculty and students. 
The entire committee met for two hours, 
biweekly, for a total of 3 sessions. A separ
ate subcommittee met once. After much 
thought and debate, the CMU Tuition 
Committee proposed a $500 increase over 
the 1979 - 80 tuition. This would raise the 
total undergraduate tuition cost to $4600.
 This proposal is by no means final  
this article is intended to inform the cam
pus community about the proposed in
crease, so that anyone who wishes to have 
some input may be heard before the final 
decision is made. It would be unfair to pre
sent this article without some of the data 
that the Tuition Committee had available 
to them, so that everyone has the facts to 
back up any of his/her own claims or pro
posals.
The first and perhaps most obvious fact 
f is the very nature of our institution. We 
are an independent university, 1 of 90 in 
Pennsylvania. Independent colleges had on 
the average for 1977-78 a tuition which 
was $2000 higher per year than tuition for 
state supported schools. To keep up with 
rising costs, independent schools must raise 
their tuitions, whereas state schools ask the 
legislature for more money to offset their 
rising costs. Private schools are not eligible 
for these state funds. Hence, these institu
tions are extremely vulnerable financially.
A study done by John Min ter Associates 
on 1975-76 financial data of independent 
institutions found 30% to be in weak finan
cial condition and growing weaker. As a 
conservative estimate, 25-30 of the 90 in
dependent institutions in Pennsylvania are 
expected to be out of operation by the 
year 2000. I hope it is clear that any tui
tion increase is not done so that the hier
archy at CMU may live more comfortably. 
(Indeed, at CMU no officer is given a 
house, car, nor are funds made available for 
foreign travel.)
If we look at the CMU tuition pattern 
for the past 10 years, one can see that 
during 3 out of the past 8 years there has 
been no tuition increase. One can also see 
that there has been an irregular pattern of 
tuition change over the past 9 years, with 
an overall average % change of 7i31 ($211).
If one looks at the graph below, it is evi
dent that on a constant dollar basis, CMU 
was operating with less money last year 
than we were 10 years ago. And outlined in 
a pie format is a comparison of the compo
sition of income and expense for fiscal 
1969 and 1978. Gifts and Grants as a per
cent of the budget declined 3.9 %; Endow
ment declined by .4 %; Auxiliary Services 
declined by .5%; and other sources of in
come declined by 1.1 %. Sponsored Re
search and Tuition are the income catagories which have grown over the last 10 
years. Sponsored Research  money re
ceived from the government or private or
ganizations  helps offset tuition increases. 
In the last 10 years, Sponsored Research 
has increased by about $10 million. This 
money is used to subsidize professors 
salaries, pay for equipment and Physical 
Plant, as well as a number, of other services 
and facilities.
which evolved around the following issues:
(A) Enrollment trends and Application 
Data
(B) Financial Aid
(C) Budget Forecast
Other considerations were (1) how large 
tuition increases may influence the socio
economic mix of the student body, (2) 
variable tuition rates for freshmen, sophmores, juniors and seniors, which did not 
appear to be a viable approach, (3) spiraling inflation would pretty much hamper a 
guaranteed 2 - 4 year tuition contract, (4) a 
large tuition increase on the magnitude of 
$1000 with a grandfather, clause. Cur
rent students could be protected by a $400 
to $500 tuition rebate, and (5) a better 
means of communicating with students all 
financial opportunities at CMU. Apparent
ly, the decision to raise tuition was not off 
the cuff.
in 1985. At CMU these numbers lend 
themselves to the projection of an enrolling 
class of 1110 in 1979 to 1020 in 1980-83. 
As an entire undergraduate student body, 
we expect decline from 3799 in 1979 
to 3762 in 1980, 3660 in 1981, 3635 in 
1982 and 3555 in 1983.
Being that we are operating over our 
capacity now, a decline in student body 
will be beneficial. But this decline will also 
mean a smaller amount of income to the 
university, the brunt of which will be 
picked up by the remaining students via a 
tuition increase. (Since we are currently 
operating over our capacity, a decline in 
students will not necessarily mean that 
faculty and staff will also decline.) The de
cision to decrease the total number of un
dergraduates is in anticipation of not ex
panding the undergraduate teaching capaci
ty, and that we are currently straining our 
resources for teaching and student housing.
It is interesting to see that a rise in tui
tion seems to encourage more applicants. 
As of February 1, 1979 there were 689 
more CMU applications than on the same 
date in 1978. It seems that the Economic 
Price System does not apply to this school.
A rise in applications may indeed be re
lated to the fact that our tuition announce
ment comes out 16 months in advance of
its implementation. An early tuition an
nouncement enables the admission people 
to talk about the actual tuition price with 
prospective students. This is much better 
than some schools; many have yet to an
nounce their tuition for this upcoming 
semester.
General Fund Operating 
Constant Dollars Compared 
to Current Dollars 
(1968-69=100)
 Determined by using the Higher 
Education Price index as pub
lished in the "Higher Education 
Prices and Price Indexes" by D. 
Kent Halstead

---------------------------------------------------

TUITION REPORT ~'80-'81
actual tuition increase. The amount of 
need varies from person to person, and any 
student who has iny questions concerning 
his FA package, or who wonders if he is 
eligible at all for FA, is encouraged to 
make appointments at the FA office and 
have it explained. FA data is available to 
anyone who wishes to see it.
Total grants for CMU students have in
creased by 53% and work study has in
creased by 287% during the four year 
period from 1976-1980. During this same 
period National Direct Student loans have
increased by 26%. It is comforting to see 
these figures, for the average need for those 
on financial aid for the 1979 -1980 aca
demic year is approximately $4800. FA 
estimates it will be able to meet $3200 of 
this with grant money, with the difference 
($1600) being made up by loans and work 
study.
We have been very fortunate that our 
FA has increased so much as to cover uni
versity cost increases. FA has approxi
mate^ 1 million more in grant gift re
sources than in 1978-79. But it is not 
known how long this trend can continue.
Private colleges in Pennsylvania get the 
shaft when it comes to the allocation of 
FA funds. There is only 1 lobbyist in Har
risburg for all 90 private colleges in Penn
sylvania, whereas the University of Pitts
burgh has five alone, including one in 
Washington. There is a need for more stu
dents from private schools to get involved 
in State Government Aid Programs. Any
one who may be interested in working on 
such a program is encouraged to stop by 
the FA office and make an appointment.
There are many complaints from upper
classmen that their FA has gone down 
since their freshman year. FA goes down 
for standard reasons, by a set procedure; it 
is by no means arbitrary. A problem with 
freshmen is that there is no verifiable 
data on them, whereas there is on upper
classmen. Also, parents dont always give 
the correct information regarding income, 
assets and family situation.
A students actual FA is determined by 
amount of need and academic perfor1979 THRU 1901 
TEA PE OFF
INFLATION RATE - GENERALMS,TU11IOU INCREASE
INFLGENL< E EE A OilLU E POINT)'< .* 4 
,  .-v-'-i'".- 4' \ ' '7. ", \   ' ' ,'  y. 
9,00 %4N v  -jCjw ' ;  S c'v -- >/' 'Ff:' "
8.50%4F'+ilBllllilil r v -o8.00%iF ' F .F
+' ' '- 'x ' "ff * ' > S vv5K T -s ;
7.50%+ !F F VF
4 Vttff flil fflpli
7.00%4! .E E F 'F
4
--y - A-- -milit
6 .50%4-^ ? 'V \  U'* 'X *FE F EF+
6 * 00%iEFF E ; FF !+ip j| I | III> y'
5.50%+l!llv  F 1FE , . F FF
4-
5.00%+f - FFF F EF
+1  |i'
4.50%-fE E EE F F' FE
4
4.00%-}E F EEE F FF
fr
+-----------1------------------4---------! ~- 4.....4-~~.....f-------f........ .... t.
0.400 0.450 0.5000.550 0.600
TUITINCR0.425 0.475O.525  0.575
mance. There are increments made on 
grades to account for grade inflation or 
deflation in particular departments. The 
specifics of the process are available in the 
FA office for interested students.
Budget Forecast 
The budget forecast is based on an as
sumed general inflation rate of 6%; an in
flation rate for utilities of 12%; academic 
salary increases of 6.5% to 7%; a library 
budget increase of 7%; no increase in en
dowment or gift income utilized, and a 
tuition increase of $500. The minimum 
tuition increase for a 6% rate of inflation is 
$475. Yet, inflation is expected to be 
higher than 6% in 1980-81. In the first 3 
months of this year, the CPI has increased 
approximately 3%, which is an average rate 
of inflation of 12%. The above chart dia
grams feasible regions for tuition increases 
plotted against inflation rates for 1980-81. 
For example, at 9% inflation, $600 is the 
break even point for a balanced budget.
A $500 increase covers us for a 6.5% in
flation rate, Although inflation may be 
much more than 6.5% requiring a higher 
tuition increase than $500, a $500 increase 
adds pressure to control our costs (63 mil-, 
lion this year).
When alt the information was presented, 
we debated on what we considered to be 
our three major alternatives  a $400 in
crease, $500 increase or $600 increase.
After a considerable amount of discus
sion regarding the advantages and disadvan
tages of each of the three alternatives, a 
formal vote was taken:
$400  2 votes. A more realistic figure 
for students, representing a responsible in
crease.
$500  6 votes. Represents a more 
 reasonable and fiscally sound figure.
$600  3 votes. Based on a projection 
of 9 % inflation, a $600 increase repre
sents a break-even point. It would also pro
vide the university with additional funds to 
improve the quality of our educational en
vironment (teachers salaries, instructional 
facilities, and equipment).
There was one vote for a $550 increase, 
which means that 10 of the 12 committee 
members voted for a tuition increase of 
$500 or higher.
The final decision concerning a tuition 
increase has not yet been made. Hopefully 
it is now a little more understandable why 
we voted for such an increase. You now 
have many of the facts, graphs and charts 
that we used. Student input does have an 
affect on these decisions. If you do disa
gree with our conclusions please voice your 
opinions. Finally, if there are any questions 
concerning any particular information pre
sented here, please feel free to contact the 4 
respective staff for that field and ask them 
to explain it to you. They will be more 
than obliging.
The following are members of the 78-79 Tuition Committee. 
Orville Winsand CFA; Chairman
Stanley Baiman, GSIA
Walter Cathie, Director of Financial Aid
Gail Davidson, Chemistry
Walter Dolde, GSIA
William Elliott, Vice Provost
William Haseman, SUPA
Robert Kail, Associate Dean, CIT/MIS
Paul Karol, Chemistry
Harold Larson, Associate Director of Finance 
Mark Mastandrea, student 
Robin Niesenbaum, student 
Fred Rogers, Director of Planning 
Katherine Schipper, GSIA 
Stuart Schlisserman, student 
Jerry Swedlow, Mechanical Engineering 
Donald Wilkins, Music
TUITION '79-'80
The following tuition rates will be in effect for the academic year 
1979-80.
UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS 
Full-Time Tuition
All undergraduate students enrolled for 36 units or more of 
work per semester will be assessed full tuition $2050 per semester. 
Per-Unit Tuition Rate
Any undergraduate student enrolled for fewer than 36 units per 
semester will be assessed at the rate of $43 per unit.
GRADUATE STUDENTS
Full-Time Tuition
All graduate students enrolled for 36 units or more of work per 
semester will be assessed full tuition, $2350 per semester.
Per-Unit Tuition Rate
Any graduate student enrolled for fewer than 36 units per 
semester will be assessed at the following rates . . .
CollegeDepartmentsDegreesUnit Rate
CFA(All)All$65/unit
CIT(All)All$65/unit
GSIA(All)All$65/unit
H&SS(Psychology, Social Sciences,All$65/unit
Modern Languages)
H&SS(English, History)- M.A., D.A. S49/unit
H&SS(English, History)M.S., Ph.D.$65/unit
MIS(All)All$65/unit
SUPA(All)All$65/unit
STUDENT ACTIVITIES FEE
1. A student activities fee of $15 per semester (in addition to tui
tion) is charged to all undergraduate students (including special 
undergraduate students) who enroll for 13 units or more.
2. A student activities fee of $15 per semester (in addition to tui
tion) is charged to all graduate students (including special graduate 
students) who enroll for 19 units or more.
Tuition Up Nationwide
Tuition costs at private colleges maybe 
up as much as 8% next school year.
Thats the result of one random samp
ling, which also indicates tuition increases 
at public colleges may run 6% to 6.5%. 
These boosts are up from those for the cur
rent school year, which were 6.9% for pri
vate colleges and 4.8% for the public 
schools, says the College Entrance Exami
nation Board.
Inflation, which was 7.7% in 1978 and 
is expected by private economists to be 
about 9% in 1979, is the villian. But even 
as their costs rise, colleges are wary of 
//
pushing tuition up too quickly. Its tough
to pass through increased costs to parents, 
as utilities do with their customers, because 
of increased competition for students, 
John D. Phillips, president of the National 
Association of Independent Colleges and 
Universities.
Average annual tuition at private four 
year colleges currently is $2,647, the exan\ 
board says; at public four year schools its 
$651.
*Reprinted from Wall Street Journal, April
5, 1979
//No way, we won't pay
(CPS) No way, we wont pay, chanted 
upwards of 900 Tufts University students 
at a rally held last month to protest a tui
tion increase of $904. At Wright State Uni
versity in Ohio, the catchword is Higher 
Ambitions, Lower Tuition. There, a 
$80-90 increase in tuition is expected for 
fall quarter. Students have already orga
nized a letter-writing campaign.
Protests such as these are sprouting on 
many campuses in face of tuition increases 
that promise to surpass last year's. Then, 
the average tab, tuition, room and board 
cumulatively, jumped five to eight percent 
for most schools, outpacing for many the 
increase in the Consumer Price Index and 
the Higher Education Price Index (the 
prices schools pay for goods).
Preliminary reports show increases ranging from eight to eleven percent over 
this years level.
The protest at Tufts prompted the ad
ministration to lower the proposed tuition 
hike from $904 a year (a 12.8 percent 
increase) to $590 and then to $550. To
gether with room and boatd, there would 
still be a 10.7 percent increase of $754.
Not all schools, of course, will experi
ence such dramatic increases, and come 
next fall, the proposed increases may be 
watered down.
The reason, experts say, is that schools 
will have to use tuition to augment one or 
more of these factors: inflationary pres
sures and costs, declining enrollment 
(which doesnt always mean declining 
cost), and increasingly-parsimonious state 
funding, which will be oftentimes compli
cated by tax-cutting fever.

---------------------------------------------------

April 24, 1979-TART AN-Paqe 9
Payin PgAyng yVstg yn .Fo
continued from page 1
ACLtJ State Representative, Kerr, 
went on to describe the history of
the Selective Service, and how due
process entered the system after
years of test trials.
The Selective Service, developed
in 1949, was modeled after the Draft 
in World War II but placed responsi
bility in civilian handsthe system
would then be more accountable. 
The system was equipped to handle 
special exemptions such as married 
men, who were ineligible for induc
tion; the system went unquestion
ed.
As political criticism of Vietnam 
grew, Kerr noted that men realized 
that the system was not treating
them fairly. Many complained that
they were not being given due 
process. An example of this was a 
case involving several students from 
the University of Michigan, who 
were leading a peace march on a 
Thursday, and found themselves
drafted on the following Monday.
As more cases of this nature oc
curred, it became apparent that 
much of the system was not working 
properly. One aspect which was
later found faulty was that the local
Draft boards were supposed to have 
been composed of neighbors from 
various' neighborhoods within the 
city, etc; (Pittsburgh was one of the 
many violators of this law) an ex
ample Kerr spoke of involved the 
Diaft board of the Hill district 
being made up of American Legion
naires from Fox Chapela clear 
violation of the draft statutes.
The most talked-about clause in
the old Draft concerned the group 
called Conscientious Objectors
(C.O.). These were people who felt 
that war was immoral, because - of 
their upbringing or deep religious 
beliefs, for example. To be consid
ered a C.O. one had to make this
declaration at the time one . register
ed.
Eventually the clause had to be 
broadened to include deeply held 
thought through philosophical
belief. However, this is difficult 
to prove, Kerr cited.
Many young men did not register 
as C.O.s and became such at the 
time of induction. Their sincerity 
was questioned, and sometimes re
jected.
With the new computerized 
Draft, Kerr noted that no one
would even have the oppgrtunity
to register as a C.O.
He suggested that students wish
ing to extablish themselves as C.O.s
should write a letter to a Congress
man, clergyman or a good friend, 
officially stating his/her beliefs, as
soon as possible, and keep a copy. 
This would enable he/she to extab
lish an official date of declaring his/ 
her convictions.
ONeill added that anyone consid
ering such action should reek coun
seling with clergy or a friend first, 
noting that writing just anything 
can be ineffective.
He also announced that a rally will 
take place April 30, in Washington
D.C., outside that Capitol. He also 
encouraged students to write to 
their Congressmen. He believes 
that the Draft in unnecessary, as
standing forces are at record levels 
and are equipped to handle any 
emergency. The only purpose 
of this legislation is to fill the 
ready reserve.
He added that its no mistake 
that the legislation is being consider
ed in May, after most college camp
uses let out.
After the meeting, most students 
the TARTAN questioned, were inposed legislation. One student is 
encouraged and hopes the campus 
community will work as individuals 
as well as a group in opposing the 
possibility of a new Draft.
Another student is more aware 
of the importance of the Draft and 
what it involves.
And one woman concluded, I 
hope well see some action on 
campus, as people take notice
cited to take action against the pro- of this.UFO Reports Theft
The United Fraternal Organization had 
a meeting on April 2 at which the members 
discussed the results of this years Greek 
Sing/Swing Weekend.
Some of the theft involved with this 
years Swing has been resolved. A tap and a 
dolly are still missing along with various 
other items. The cost of replacing these 
comes to between $150 and $200 which 
must come out of the UFO budget. Not
much damage was done to Music Hall.
The judges were pleased with this years 
performance and many compliments were 
received. Three gr.oups did not show up 
to swing clean-up. The fine is $25 per 
person.
The new Swing/Sing chairmen are Dawn 
Clawson of KK.G and Gary Feinberg of 
Kappa Sigma.
Hunt Library's book sale draws crowd. Bargains were obtained by all participants.
I
UNIVERSITY FOOD SERVICE 
HAS SOMETHING FOR EVERYONE 
WITH THE NEW VALI-DINE SYSTEM
Sign up for next year's new food 
contract and receive a free bonus.
Contract order forms 
available in Skibo, room 62 
or at Cashier Stations
photo by Robert Zusman

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-TARTAN-April 24, 1979
Bio Sei. Dept.
continued from page 1
he would not have decided to join CMU. 
One of his needs was to bring sixteen staff 
people from Pitt with him.
The new Assistant Department Head 
will be Dr. Eric Grotzinger. He currently 
serves as Associate Director of Admissions 
and Assistant Professor of Chemistry at 
Muskegum College.
Three of the remaining four new facul
ty members are already busy at Mellon In
stitute, where the Bio Sci Departments 
labs and offices are located. They are: Dr. 
David Hackney, Dr. Jonathan Jarvik, and 
Dr. Janice ODonnell. All three will have 
undergraduate teaching responsibilities in 
the fall. The fourth new faculty opening 
has only been tentatively filled, said Kiss. 
In reality, only three of the six new people 
will be filling newly created slots since Drs. 
Hartshorne, Mayfield, and Ellison have left 
CMU in the past two years.
New Research is Molecularly Oriented
Hackney is a biochemist who principal
ly studies the regulation and structure of 
enzymes. His research aims to decipher 
the mechanisms of biological energy 
coupling and the organization of mem
brane proteins.
The goal of Jarviks research is to de
velop an understanding, on the molecular 
level, of the way in which a cell assembles 
a complex structure like a flagella. A flagella provides a single-celled organism (like 
Chlamydomonas) with the ability to swim 
around in search of food. The analysis of 
genetically mutated Chlamydomonas plays 
a fundamental role in this research.
ODonnell is interested in the organiza
tion and structure of genes in higher organ
isms. She studies genes which code for en
zymes in fruit flies (Drosophila). Because 
the cells and DNA of Drosophila are similar 
in structure and organization to those of 
higher organisms, information derived from 
this research can contribute to our under
standing of gene function in human beings.
All of the new labs are expensive to set 
up, explained Kiss, because they require 
precisely controlled environments. The uni
versity considers the money wisely spent, 
since funds for biological research, particul
arly the molecularly oriented areas in 
which CMU participates, are easy to ob
tain .But of cours, an outstanding faculty 
helps. Approximately twenty-two percent 
of research grants goes into the universitys 
Educational and General Operating Ac
count. Student tuition monies also go into 
this account and Kiss feels that without a 
complementary expansion in the number 
of bio sci students, the research investment 
may not pay off.
Gary Fabian, chairman of the Bio Sci 
Student Advisory Committee, said that 
most students seem pleased with the im
provements and the department is catch
ing on in terms of gaining a solid identity 
within MIS and the university.
Kristol Scheduled to Speak
Irving Kristol lectures on reform.
Irving Kristol, a leading spokesman for 
reform in education, government and the 
business world, and against the anti-American intellectual attitude, will speak on 
The New Class at 8:30 PM Tuesday. May 
1 at Carnegie-Music Hall. Kristols lecture is 
part of the Man and Ideas series spon
sored by the Womens Committee, Museum 
qf Art, Carnegie Institute.
There is no charge for admission to the 
lecture; tickets may be picked up in ad
vance at the public relations office of 
Carnegie Institute, 4400 Forbes Avenue; 
or at faufmanns downtown, ninth floor 
ticket office. This marks the 11th year the 
popular lecture series is being offered at 
the Institute.
The authors opinions include the view 
that Capitalism has not produced a more 
equal society, merely a more affluent one. 
Which, I think, is pretty good.
A monthly contributer to the Wall 
Street Journal, Kristol .also has served as 
author and editor with such publications as 
Commentary, Encounter andThe Reporter. 
He is now co-editor, along with Nathan 
Glazer, of The Public Interest.
A Senior Fellow of the American Enter
prise Institute, he also is a Fellow of the 
American Academy of Arts and Sciences 
and a member of the Council on Foreign 
Relations. Kristol also served as a member 
of the National Council on the Humanities 
from 1972-77.
He is co-editor, with Daniel Bell, of 
Confrontation: The Student Rebellion and 
the University, published in 1969, and of 
Capitalism Today, published inl971; co-edor at Kaufmanns downtown, ninth floor 
Commonwealth, published in 1976; co
editor, with Paul Weav ver, of The Ameri
cans: 1976, published inl976.
No Funds
Electric utilities service is a basic human 
necessity, and the inability of some persons 
to pay for service is a welfare problem.
Brooke R. Hartman, president of the 
Pennsylvania Electric Association (PEA) 
told the PUC that the member companies 
of PEA recognized and were genuinely confor service, Harman told the PUC, also 
poses a serious problem for the utility in
dustry.
If the utilities are not paid adequately, 
they will reach a point where they no long
er have the resources necessary to provide 
the service their customers need, Hartman 
warned.
Many governmental programs have 
been legislated . . . for segments of our so
ciety who need help in acquiring their 
food, housing, clothing, medical care and 
other necessities. The specific inclusion of 
utility service costs as part of these welfare 
programs appears to the utility industry to 
offer the best chance for a rational and eq
uitable solution to the problem.
APRIL
S M T W T F S
lovwwi1 
w www my
'WWW'WWMW
ioo?iomwioOT>
lOW
Gasoline Shortage Likely
According to the West Penn Triple 
A FUEL GAUGE Rep'ort, gasoline short
ages will be spotty in nature and motor
ists who encounter one service station 
closed or out of a particular grade of 
gasoline will be able to find gasoline
available at a nearby station.
The average price for regular, premium 
and unleaded gasolines at full service 
pumps in Allegheny County was 11 cents 
more per gallon than the gasoline prices 
of last years Easter weekend.
Cost Burden?
Ford Motor Company says weekly fuel 
costs for the average american motorist 
are probably less of a burden now than 
four years ago. Thisdespite steeply rising 
gas prices. Ford says owners of some 1979 
model cars may get as much as 65 percfent 
more travel out of an hours pay than they 
did with new cars in 1975. The report 
claims that wage and fuel price hikes have 
run even the past four yearwhile fuel 
efficiency in cars has increased.
Oil Prices Up
The National Iranian Oil Company says 
it has raised its crude oil prices nearly 13 
percent over the rates set by the Organiza
tion of Petroleum Exporting Countries last 
month. The company also says it has in
creased production to four-point-seven-mil
lion barrels of oil a day. . jnore than 80 
percent of it for export.
Business World Expertise to Lecture at Tech
by Susan Brillman
On Saturday, April 28, SARC will pre
sent Issues in Business Today II. This 
will be a full day of speeches delivered by 
experts in the business world. The day 
will also include small discussion groups 
and lunch.
The first of the four speakers will be 
Donald E. Stingel, director of the ExportImport Bank of the United States. His 
topic will be the United States in a world 
marketplace. This speech will deal with 
how the United States interacts with other 
nations as it becomes increasingly depen
dent on the world economy.
The next speaker will be Henry Lehne, 
Vice President of Manufacturing Services, 
GTE products corporation. Lehne will dis
cuss whether research and development 
is the key to continued prosperity, and 
what its role is in the competitive firm.
After the lunch break, the program will 
continue with Dr. Herbert Simon, Richard 
King Mellon Professor of computer science 
and psychology, and Nobel prize winner. 
Simon will speak about decision making 
within the corporation. He will take us on 
a journey into the minds of executives 
and explain how and why important de
cisions are made.
The final speaker will be Dr. Alfred
E. Kuehn, President of Management 
Science Association. He will speak on 
marketing, from a differnt view than 
usual. All of us are aware of the effects of 
good marketing techniques on the con
sumer; Kuehn will explain its affects and
importance within the firm.
All of the speakers promise to provide 
opportunities for provocative thought and 
active discussion. The entire day costs $3 
for students and $10 for all others. Inter
ested persons should contact the SARC 
office, 505 Warner Hall, x2060, by April 
l(\ for reservations.Title 111 Merges Programs
Porter Flail Altered
by Jeanette Bryan
Nine new offices and a large meeting 
room are the cause of the construction 
currently going on in Porter Hall.
The new rooms are being added to the 
History and Social Science Department in
an effort to improve physical organization 
and provide more suitable meeting area.
The project began around mid-Decem
ber and progress is being made rapidly. 
The job is scheduled for completion in 
late April at a total cost of $90,555.
The Basic Institutional Development
Program and the Advanced Institutional
Development Program, both authorized
under Title III of the Higher Education Act
both of which provide funds to developing
instituions of higher education are being
merged and will have a single set of funding
criteria and priorities.Title lit grants help schools upgrade
their academic and administrative programs
through better course offerings, enlarged
student services, and increased financial
stability.The new regulations also establish 
simplified criteria for participation. In 
addition, any institution which is currently
being funded by either program will be 
considered eligible to apply under the new 
combined program.
A third major change deals with the fun
ding criteria. Priority is being given to in
stitutions that can demonstrate they will ^ 
use the money to strengthen their aca
demic programs and provide a successful 
education experience for low-income or 
minority students. Priority also will be 
given to schools which demonstrate that 
the grant will contribute to the long-term 
stability of the institution and help to over
come the circumstances that threaten its 
survival.

---------------------------------------------------

FEATURES
POSSIBLE DRAFT RETURN CAUSES STUDENT UNREST
Draft reinstatement debated
On February 9, Sen. John Stennis (DMs) rose in the U.S. Senate to call for a 
fair and equitable military draft. Chair
man of the powerful Senate Armed Forces 
Committee, Stennis complained the volunterr recruitment system - in effect since 
the Selective Service structure was disband
ed in 1972 - wasnt working: Were simply 
not getting the manpower.
Now, hearings on the new draft, which 
would affect 11 million college students as 
well as the other 36 million Americans be
tween the ages of 18-29, have begun before 
the House Armed Services Committee. 
Though there are now several bills that 
would revivify the draft, most would offer 
some variations on the draft ended seven 
years ago.
The impetus behind the calls for con
scription is the Pentagons worry about 
declining enlistment. Department of De
fense studies released last December show 
that the volunteer ism that helped the arm
ed forces fill 105 percent of its manpower 
requirements in 1975 fell to 90 percent in 
1978. The Navy and the Marines filled only 
85 percent of their 1978 quotes. The 
Armys Ready Reserve units, used for 
quick insertion into tfront lines if there is a 
military emergency, have only 180,000 of
730,000 places filled. Defense thinks it 
would take 250 days to mobilize the 650,
000 recruits needed to meet an emergency.
Draft advocates dont think even slicker 
advertising for the volunteer army will 
either. Like colleges, the armed forces face 
a drop in the number of eligible candi
dates. The 2.2 million people eligible for 
the military this year will fall to 1.7 million 
by 1985.
Les Aspin, (D-Wi) of the House Armed 
Services Committee, still doesnt like the 
idea of a new draft. Peacetime drafting 
he says, is essentially unfair. To say we 
ought to overthrow or change 90 percent 
beacuse of a problem with 10 percent.
But a staffer with the House committee 
told CPS that enough people are thinking 
about a draft right nowto make it a reali
ty in the near future. Passage this year
seems slight, since Stennis Senate Armed 
Services Committee already has a heavy 
workload this session, and is not expected 
to vote it onto the Senate floor.
If some see a new draft as an inevitabil
ity, no one is willing to predict just what 
form conscription would take. Secretary 
of Defense Harold Brown, for one, wants 
women participating in the draft. On Jan
uary 29, he told the House committee that 
registration should include women if it 
takes place. Stennis, however, disagrees: 
I dont believe [women] have the phys
ical capacity for rugged kinds of duty, such 
as driving a tank over a terrain.
Yet another version of the draft now 
seeming to gain support is a universal ser
vice plan, in which all people perform some 
kind of national service. The last such 
bill to come to Congress was in 1970. Now, 
talk is that a universal service plan could be 
adopted and in effect before the fall, 1980, 
semester gets under way.
The idea has been formalized in a bill, 
introduced in February by Rep. Paul McCloskey (R-CA). His Youth Service plan 
would have all 17-year-olds of both genders 
registering. The registrant could choose 
between some non-military service and be
coming eligible for a military lottery. The 
service of either choice would last one 
year.
Still another version of the same idea 
would give 18-year-olds four options. 
They can put in two years of military ser
vice in return for 36 months of education 
benefits or training assistance. They could 
also sign on for six months of active duty, 
followed by another five and a half years in 
the reserves. The other alternative mimics 
the choices open under McCloskeys plan.
President Carter, of course, has called 
for some kind of mandatory registration 
for 18 to 26-year-olds. The registration 
would not necessarily be the same thing as 
automatic military service, but in all prob
ability the registrant would take tests and 
be classified according to availability in
case of emergency.
by Susan Borg
For the past few weeks there have been 
stirrings on this campus about the strong 
that the draft, in some form, 
be reinstated as early as this fall. Congbegin debate in May and it is exthat one will be passed, in light of 
failure of the volunteer army. What 
does CMU think about reinstating the 
draft?
Im not sure its necessary ...I dont 
know everything, but Im not sure 
its necessary...
Male, Sophomore, AMS
Im against it ...and I have no other 
comments to make.
Female, sophomore, H&SS
Im totally against it...The nuclear 
threat is so great that it seems ab
surd...Its all political...probably has 
a lot to do with money making... 
Male, sophomore, CFA 
It scares me...
Female, freshman, CFA 
...not particularly for it...I dont 
like the way the military is set up... 
Its more power to play with...Whats 
our cause?
Male, freshman, CIT 
I think its a plot from the military 
to get more money for their toys... 
Male, junior, AMS 
Im against it...In economic terms, 
its a misallocation of resources. 
Male, sophomore, CFA
Im totally against it...Its a mistake 
the way they are trying to put it 
through...I dont agree with the 
means they are using...I totally dis
agree with conscription.
Male, sophomore, CFA 
Im completely opposed to it..in
fact, Im for disarmament, so Im 
against the draft...
Male, H&SS, sophomore
I dont have a definite opinion...Im 
opposed to armed services...Im un
certain what the best procedure is 
but Im opposed to armed service so 
..in that case, Im opposed to the 
draft.
Male, junior, MIS 
I dont think they should do it... 
Having a well-prepared army is prep
arationfor a war...its a violation of 
the first amendment and probably 
others...
Male, senior, CIT
Im* against it...I guess Im definitely 
against it. Its against the thirteenth 
amendment and personal object 
tions.
Female, AMS/H&SS, Freshman 
Im against the draft in all forms. 1 
dont think its constitutionally or 
morally right.
Male, H&SS, freshman 
Im opposed for a variety of reasons 
...Its a peacetime draft...it seems ridiculous...Im particularly opposed to 
National Service because its involun
tary service...resembles communist 
youth corp programs in China and 
the Soviet Union...
Male, junior, MIS
I cant believe in a draft...I think we 
need registration because we need to 
realize that there is something out 
there...National service isnt so bad if 
you are unemployed...There are bad 
points, like no exemptions.
Male, freshman, H&SS 
I dont like it, but 1 think we need 
it.
Male, sophomore, H&SS
Reps willing to listen
Members of Congress and administratipn officials, at least those who want to re
main in Washington, are sensitive to the 
feelings and opinions of their constituents. 
They handle communications carefully. 
The administrative assistant of a member 
of congress will regularly report on the 
mail received. Telegrams often go directly 
to the legislators desk. Phone calls, if not 
channeled directly to the official, will be 
typed by an office secretary and placed on 
the legislators desk. Letters on issues may 
be grouped according to subject and 
whether favorable or unfavorable. Mimeo
graphed petitions and form letters get less 
consideration than personal communica
tions.
Alert members of Congress will receive 
with graciousness office visits by con
stituents. They will also welcome the opin
ions of constituents through their tele
grams and letters. They need these relation
ships to represent adequately those who 
have sent them to Congress. Since legis
lators get so much mail from self-interest 
groups, they need to hear from citizens pri
marily concerned with what seems right to 
them on moral grounds.
If you define lobbying as the use of 
moral and rational persuasion in a personal 
professional confrontation, then there is a 
place for lobbying on Capitol Hill. But 
the activity described here is not lobbying 
in the sense of applying political and econ
omic pressure. It is simply exercising res
ponsible citizenship.
If the average member of Congress re
ceived* as many as a half-dozen letters 
scrawled in pencil on brown wrapping paper, it would be enough to change his or her 
vote on most issues, a government official 
with twenty years service on Capitol Hill 
once said. He may have exaggerated, but 
his statement indicates that Congress 
members want to know how ordinary peo
ple in their districts feel about public ques
tions. Responsible citizens should write of
ten; their letters should be in good form 
and contain compelling reasoning. Here are 
a few suggestions for writing an effective 
letter to a national official:
-Keep each letter reasonably brief and 
limit the subject matter to a single issue. 
When writing about legislation, refer to the 
accurate title and number of the bill.
-Point up the moral issues involved. 
Specify why you are personally advocat
ing a particular position. If an organization 
to which you belong has taken an official 
action on the issue, you may want to refer 
to that. Let the government official know 
that you are concerned and informed. 
Make your communication your own and 
not a form letter.
-Be positive. Avoid criticism. If possible, 
compliment the legislator on some recent 
action, vote, or public speech. Occasionally 
devote your entire letter to praise for some 
constructive proposal or action.
-To get a personal response, ask a 
thoughtful question about an issue that 
concerns you. Ask for the legislators opin
ion, or after you have stated your opinion, 
write, Can I count on your support on 
this vital matter?
-Point out shortcomings that you have 
noted in a particular bill. Make 
suggestions tor correcting these.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12T ART ANApril 24,1979
Psych major 
recalls 
56 digits
by Anne Lux
Many of us have trouble remembering 
our own phone numbers, but there is one 
person here at CMU who is a whiz at re
membering numbers.
Steve Falloon, a senior in Psychology, 
can recall up to fifty-six digits, read to him 
at a pace of one digit per second. Consider
ing that the average persons memory span 
is approximately seven digits, this is quite 
an accomplishment.
A procedure that allows one to remem
ber something more reliably is called a 
mnemonic technique. There is a wide vari
ety of techniques that can help you re
member anything from a list of objects to 
peoples names. These techniques relate the 
things to be remembered with things that 
are meaningful to the person.
Working with the digits is the only 
mnemonic activity Steve is involved in at 
present, though he plans to explore other 
techniques in the near future. Steves sys
tem for recalling the digits is an interesting 
one. He has been a runner for about seven 
years (All Conference in both Cross Coun
try and Track), and has stored in his mem
ory a great deal of running times for races 
from the half-mile to the marathon. He re
lates the digits given to him to running 
times, thus converting mere numbers into 
something meaningful to him. For exam
ple, if given the digits 4, 1,2, 5, he would 
convert it to a 4:12.5 mile time. He also 
uses dates and ages.
Steve got into mnemonics almost by 
chance. He had a work-study job last sum
mer in the psychology department, and 
was chosen for a memory experiment be
cause of his availability. Starting our with a 
normal span of seven digits, he was trained 
to increase his span to about fifty-five dig
its. He hopes to reach one hundred digits 
sometime next fall.
A transfer from Allegheny Community 
College, Steve came to Carnegie-Mellon his 
sophomore year. He feels that the Psychol
ogy department, especially the research be
ing done in cognitive psychology, is out
standing.
Next year will find Steve studying Soci
al Psychology at the University of Pitts
burgh. His work with mnemonics, along 
with other excellent qualifications (includin a 3.8 QPA), has helped him gain admis
sion to all the graduate schools to which he 
applied. He would eventuallylike to obtain 
a teaching position at a college.
Dr. William Chase of Carnegie-Mellons 
Psychology Department holds that mem
ory expansion is a trainable skill. No rela
tionship has been found between IQ and 
memory capacity. According to Dr. Chase, 
Steve is of about average intelligence for a 
CMU student (though this is higher than 
that of the average person). The most im
portant factor is devising a system for re
call. Although Steves ability is a rather 
limited skill, it does give insight into how 
memory can be expanded, and to what ex
tent. Dr. Chase is more interested in these 
aspects of mnemonics than in finding prac
tical applications tor the techniques, but 
says that som
tical applications for the techniques, but 
says that some memory experts claim that 
mnemonics can be useful in such things as 
learning to read, memorizing multiplication 
tables, and learning foreign languages.
Steves accomplishment will be recorded 
in next years edition of The Guinness 
Book of World Records.
PNB first to link up with PHEAA
Pittsburgh National Bank today became 
the first lending institution in the United 
States *Gutie-in directly with a state agency 
computer to market and service student 
loans.
The link-up with the Pennsylvania 
Higher Education Assistance Agency
(PHEAA), the state arm of government 
that manages the student loan and state 
higher education grant programs, enables 
the bank to both enter and retrieve student 
loan information instantaneously, reducing 
paper work and eliminating long-distance 
telephone calls.
Through the use of the computer termi
nal, virtually all correspondence, except 
for loan applications, and all telephone 
inquiries will be replaced by the display 
monitor system contained in a small con
sole with a televisiontype screen. The push 
of a button bring a printout of information 
shown on the screen.
According to Edward V. Randall, Jr., 
senior vice president in charge of the Com
munity Banking division for Pittsburgh 
National, Besides providing us with a link 
to PHEAA in Harrisburg, the terminal puts 
us into direct communication with 41 col
leges in Pennsylvania who are tapped into 
the PHEAA computer system.
According to Mr. Randall, the link-up 
offers some real plusses for students. With 
the terminal, a student loan application 
can be tracked while its being processed 
by PHEAA, providing instant appraisal of 
the status.
He noted that problems which may 
come up at any time on a students ac
count can be resolved quickly and easily 
through a terminal at the bank or at a 
college, and the terminal can reduce the 
time it takes to notify the student of loan 
approval. Any questions about a students 
status that comes up, especially when a 
transfer of schools occurs, can easily be 
answered.
Brief ceremonies at the bank marked 
the occasion of going on-line with the ter
minal. Representing Pittsburgh National 
besides Edward V. Randall, Jr., were 
William Gwennap, vice president in charge 
of consumer lending for the bank; and Wil
liam Beran and Patrick Hayes, who manage 
the student loan program. Representing 
PHEAA were Kenneth R. Reeher, Exec
utive Director; Harry P. Casoni, Deputy 
for Management Services for the Agency, 
and La Vern Borst, Regional Representa
tive for Western Pennsylvania.
Kenneth Reeher, Executive Director, 
called the Pittsburgh National-PHEAA 
link-up, another step forward in the stu
dent loan program in Pennsylvania which 
has been marked by 15 successful years of 
participation in the program by the private
lending community. He said the lenders 
were to be commended for their willing
ness to place their funds in student bor
rowers hands, enabling the students to 
pay their education costs now, gain future 
jobs in the market place and repay their 
debts at a later date.
There are 39 state agencies similar to 
Pennsylvania which guarantee loans or in 
some cases lend funds directly to students. 
Eight or nine other states are in the process 
of establishing their own state agencies. Be
tween October 1, 1977 to September 30,
1978, the 39 state agencies guaranteed 
816,616 student loans worth 
$1,485,406,636. The Federal Govern
ment, in its Federally Insured Student 
Loan Program (FISL) guaranteed 268,102 
during that time, for a dollar value of 
$473,475,278. Under the FISL program, 
$7,974,000,000 has been provided for stu
dent loans since the program has been in 
existance. The states have .guaranteed 
$5,603,000,000. This shows a trend to
ward student loan management on the 
state level. Mr. Reeher feels that this is 
because states are better equipped to deal 
with rneir own constituencies in the area 
of making, guaranteeing, and policing the 
student loans.
There are rumblings in Washington 
about the possible creation of a mammoth 
national student loan bank, foreseen by 
some as a means of solidifying all programs 
of student lending under one big umbrella. 
Reardon feels that such a plan cannot suc
ceed. Eliminated would be the private lend
ing sector, which is the backbone of busi
ness and personal finance and now an im
portant entity, particularly in Pennsyl
vania, in the student effort.
Reardon added that he salute(s) PNB 
as the first bank to join with us in advanc
ing the method and servicing of students 
and student loans for their connection with 
our PHEAA computer. I think you will see 
numerous others following suit. For I 
believe that the lenders of our state know 
that through such a vehicle as computer 
terminal service, they will be better able 
to do what must be done to ensure pro. 
gram viability and do it without the sacrifice of the personal banking nuances that 
are so vital to good customer relations 
and sound fiscal management.
 
MARY'S KITCHEN
"Getting away from the 
same old thing" 
CATERING 
FOR AU OCCASIONS 
HOT AND COLD DELICACIES
 ROAST BEEF
 CHICKEN CREPES'
 BROCCOLI CASSEROLE
 HEAVENLY HASH JELLO
 SCALLOPED POTATOES
 MEAT BALLS
(3 different ways)
 AND MUCH MORE
CALL 7M-4685
for prices & more of our 
menu
CMU A# Sfcnt
".A/!*
>   
*r
No. 2 in the CMU Art Store T-Shirt Collector's Series.
CONTEST STARTS APRIL 24 !

---------------------------------------------------

April 24, 1979T ARTANPage 13
AND BEyoA/D
A final look at Koreagate
by Frederic J. Siegel
As one who was somewhat involved in 
uncovering the Korean Buying Influence 
scandal, the anticlimatic conclusion came 
not so much a surprise as a severe disap
pointment. In retrospect, the Korean In
fluence-Buying Investigation must be view
ed as nothing less than a failure and con
demnation of Congress, and little more 
than another reminder of the corruption 
forever inherent throughout the highest 
levels of our government. At a cost exceed
ing $10 million, this 18 month investiga
tion was a total and absolute failure. Des
pite the tremendous efforts and profes
sional sacrifice of comittee members Bruce 
Caputo, Millicent Fenwick and special 
counsel, Leon Jaworski, only a few of the 
34 members who were found guilty of ac
cepting bribes were dealt with at all harsh
ly. \Of the former members of Congress
who took bribes from Korean rice agent, 
Tongsun Park, only one, Richard Hanna 
(D-Cal) is currently serving time in prison. 
Of the 14 current members of the House, 
only three received any type of real punr 
ishment. Edward Roybal, John McFall, and 
Charles Wilson were reprimanded, the 
House equivalent of slapping a hand. Be
cause of the mockery these members made 
of congressional ethics, the House should 
have settled for no less than their expul
sion. Not only did the Congress let these 
offenders off with the least punishment 
possible, but in a secret session on Decemand Majority leader Jim Wright (D-Texas) 
decided that they could keep their posts as 
subcommittee chairman.'
A major reason for the failure of the 
House to take any serious action against 
Roybal, McFall, and Wilson was their un
willingness to take the entire investigation 
seriously and their reluctance to end a 
practice of accepting money and gifts that 
has been so profitable for so many years. 
Another reason the investigation faltered 
was President Carters decision not to sup
port the efforts of the Ethics Committee. 
President Carter could have given great im
petus to the investigation. He could have 
designated a task force to induce coopera
tion from other governments in getting 
witnesses and documents to Washing torn 
Because Carter chose to ignore the investi
gation, the Ethics Committee often lacked 
important evidence which might have 
changed the outcome of the probe. Carter 
obviously preferred to maintain his close 
relationship with Tip ONeill. Because 
ONeill was heavily implicated in the scan
dal Carter protected that friendship by as
suring the investigations failure.
In the final analysis, the Korean Influ
ence Buying Investigation failed because of 
the lack of governmental concern demon
strated by the American public. The Amer
ican public made evident their ignorance 
and disconcern by reelecting almost every 
member implicated someway in the scan
dal. Despite having acknowledged being the 
recipient of $6,000, Tip ONeill, was over
whelmingly sent back to his position as
Speaker of the House. Roybal, McFall, and 
Wilson were all returned to Congress last 
November. Otto Passman (D-La) was re
cently acquited on charges of bribery and 
conspiracy to commit bribery and to de
fraud the United States in connection with 
the sale of U.S. rice to the South Korean 
government. Despite evidence including the 
cancelled checks of Tongsun Park to Otto 
Passman for sums exceeding $500,000, 
Otto Passman was found innocent of all 
eight counts. It is somewhat astounding 
how our judiciary system gets their idea of 
justice so confused. As for Tongsun Park, 
star of the Ethics Committee hearings last
*<SU977
April, he is spending his American made 
millions in any one of his five mansions in 
South Korea. Bruce Caputo, the former 
grandstander of the Ethics Committee is 
back in New York attempting a political 
comeback after his loss last November for 
Lieutenant Governor.
The Congress is still the same after the 
scandal. Perhaps a little more tarnished. 
Apparently, little has changed during the 
96th Congress. While the Ethics Committee 
was a popular assignment to receive during 
the 95th Congress, today it is the least 
coveted committee on the hill. As I sup= 
pose it has been all along, in Washington, 
ethics iso-u-t.
SARC
' ' 1 r ' ' . -  1
presents
Issuesin Business Today II with
Donald E. Stinge!
1 Ann Anenry Lennc
Dr. Herbert A. Simon
Dr. Alfred A. Kuehn
Our gratitude to Hooker Chemical 
Corporation for their generosity in 
underwriting the cost for this 
brochure.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14-TARTAN-ApriI 24,1979
Prof. tries new teaching evaluation
by Ellis Cohen
You know those Faculty Course Evalua
tionsthe ones where 23 magic numbers, 
like baseball statistics, describe teachersfor example, Great grades, no teach, or 
Good talk, b.ut the exercises dont take ya 
the distance. Well, I dont like them.
Not really because of the numberstheyre too absurd to really irk me (in tact I 
think its sort of camp for a university to 
mimic the Nielsen ratings). I mostly dis
like them because they are pretty useless 
for both students and teachers, and be
cause we can do a lot better.
Here is a premise about teachers: We 
would like all our courses to be stimulat
ing learning environments, from the lowest 
Nielsen rated teacher to the highest. That 
implies that teachers want to know real 
information about what has actually gone 
well in the course, and what has not. That
information is not gonna just drop out of 
the skies. Only the people taking the 
course can provide it.
So, lets publish it. If, at the beginning 
of the term, students know where a teach
er needs to move, then they can let him or 
her know which changes in teaching style 
and substance are in the right direction, 
and which are not. Remember that teach
ers are not always very perceptive about 
that.
I am handing out my own evaluation 
form this year. I will send FCE the results, 
and they are welcome to publish them. 
Here is a copy of my evaluation form. 
Shouldnt this be what we are all using?
1. What pleases you most about what you 
have learned in this course?
2. What did you especially like about my 
teaching?
BORN AGAIN" 
AGAIN
You've heard it before. You'll hear 
it again. It's unbelievable.
But is it true?
This is an invitation to hear your 
fellow students tell about who they 
have found Jesus Christ to be
APRIL 25 WHERRETT 
ROOM 
8:00  9:00 
9:3010:30
REFRESHMENTS
3. What things (e. g., kinds of exercises, 
assignments) were especially useful for
your learning?
4. Which things do you think worked best 
for the whole class?
5. How might I expand or change some of 
those things to work even better next time 
I teach?
6. What things should I look out for or do 
differently next time?
SEE NEXT ISSUE FOR 
PART IIHOMOSEXUALITY: 
Sherry Seigel's column will 
be continued next week.
Chatham has Spring Weekend
Chatham College welcomes the public 
to annual Spring Weekend activities on the 
Shadyside campus, from Thursday, April 
26, through Sunday, April 29. Chathams 
walkways and lawns will take on the ex-, 
citement of Mardi Gras, with lavish booths, 
arts and crafts exhibits, and an array of en
tertainers setting the scene.
Despite the northern locale, Chathams 
Mardi Gras weekend will include tradition
al Cajun frolic as roving masqueraders, gyp
sies, musicians, escape artists, and magic
ians. Flame eaters, jugglers, ritual folk dan
cers, parades, floats, food, and fireworks 
will add to the New Orleans spirit.
Spotlight attractions include appear
ances by the Rhythm Kings, Eddy and the 
Otters, Devilish Mary, the Little Hats, the 
Lovelace Marionette Theater, and the 
Three Rivers Morris Team.
An arts and crafts exhibit will feature 
works by off-campus exhibitors, on Sat
urday and Sunday. Student organizations 
will run craft and snack booths throughout 
the Mardi Gras weekend.
All entertainment events are free and 
open to the public. Details on Chathams 
Mardi Gras weekend are available at 441- 
8200, ext. 238 or 239.
FOR SUMMER TRA VEL 
TO EUROPE
MAKE RESERVATIONS NOW.
FOR LOW FARES, 
CHARTERS, 
TOUR PACKAGES
Call
Peoples Travel 
621-0799
FORBES TRAVEL
an official CMU Travel Agency
COMPLETE TRAVEL ARRANGEMENTS
"Never a Service Charge"
 COMPUTERIZED RESERVATIONS immediate availabilities and confir
mation of flights
 FREE TICKET DELIVERY ANYWHERE ON CAMPUSfull time delivery 
service
 Payment by Transportation request form for authorized University
 travel
 We accept all Major Credit Cards
AIRLINES 
HOTELS 
CAR RENTALS 
CRUISES 
RAIL
FOR RESERVATIONS CALL:
Airlines, htels auto rentals 
CMU extension 02999 
or
421-2500
Vacation Planning 
521-7300

---------------------------------------------------

CMU EXPRESS
PHOTOS BY : Skip Brazelton, Mike Butensky, Kathy Hande, Tom Hart, Chris Morrow, 
Ramanan, Mark Segal and Robert Zusfnan

---------------------------------------------------

Spring Carnival 79
PHOTOS BY : Skip Brazelton, Mike Butensky, 
and Robert Zusman

---------------------------------------------------

Spring Carnival 79
lande, Tom Hart, Chris Morrow, Ramanan, Mark Sega!

---------------------------------------------------

PHOTOS BY : Skip Brazelton, Mike Butensky, Kathy Hande, Tom Hart, Chris Morrow, Ramanan, Mark Segal 
and Robert Zusman
There was entertainment in abundance, to 
suit people of all tastes
The Dave Brubeck Quartet;
Nick Lomakin's Dixieland Jazz Band; 
Scotch 'N Soda's "Watercolors";
The Gong Show and a Square Dance.
Carnival 79 
Entertainment

---------------------------------------------------

ENTERTAINMENT
Dave Brubeck concert enjoyable yet disappointing
Michael Marlin's energetic show wins over tent crowd
Michael Mariin, a creative juggler and entertainer. 
Performed under the tent on the first night of 
Spring Carnival.
by Alan Spero
On Thursday night at eight, the audi
ence in the Spring Carnival tent were treat
ed to an enjoyable hour of juggling, 
magic, fire eating, and story telling by a 
young, energetic entertainer, Michael Mar
lin. Although he had rough going at first 
(there was no sound system set up until 25 
minutes after the scheduled starting time), 
he managed to pick up the pace of the 
show and the audiences attention fairly 
quickly in a performance of assorted 
routines, centered around juggling, simple 
magic, and fire-eating.
Marlin is a very creative juggler. He is 
also very fast. He had a few slip ups near 
the beginning and end of the show, but 
most of the time he was amazingly accur
ate. He also has a clever, somewhat pervert
ed sense of humor which he applies very 
effectively while juggling. One time during 
the show, Marlin started demonstrating 
how a certain routine was put together. He 
juggled two balls alternatively going up and
down from each hand, while a third ball 
went back and forth over the other two 
balls. Marlin explained, I call this the Wal
ter Mondale trick - you see it, but it 
doesnt do anything. This is the core of 
his act. Without a gimmick to support his 
humor, Marlins jokes would fall flat. They 
often bordered on bad taste and somd were 
just not funny.
Still, he has a charisma that is very 
attractive to the audience. He appears very 
relaxed on stage and handled himself well 
with hecklers and technical problems (he 
was especially entertaining while trying to 
occupy the audiences attention while the 
sound system was connected). But the 
most exciting part of the show was the fi
nal routine where Marlin started eating fire. 
At one point he lit his tongue on fire with 
one burning baton and then lit the other 
unlit baton with his tongue. The final feat 
was equally outrageous - he stuck the lit 
baton down his pants, very far down.
Continued on page 21
Marlin demonstrates a routine: "I call this the 
Walter Mondale trick  you see it, but it doesn't 
do anything.'*
was during these solos that the skill and 
musical talents of the performers were 
clearly shown. One of the highlights of the 
evening was the two trombone solos by 
Chris Brubeck, who usually played bass. 
Drummer Randy Jones also had one excellant solo in which his relaxed and very 
professional drumming style was shown. 
The tenor saxophone player also had his 
share of the many solos. At many times the 
saxophonist was the virtual leader of the 
group with the rest of the musicians just 
playing backup for him. While the solos 
were probably the best part of the con
cert, they were slightly disappointing if 
only for the reason that they made you 
long for more of this music.
While I enjoyed most of the concert and 
was very impressed by the skill of the 
musicians I feel it could have been a lot 
better. Over and over again the musicians 
reached a certain level of excitement and 
intensity but failed to progress any further. 
While I understand that they are only jazz 
musicians, they could have presented a 
much better concert if they had just let it 
rock occasionally. The band seemed total
ly uninterested in
along with them and their music. Every 
number managed to sound very much like 
the one before it, unless you knew most of 
Brubecks work the tunes all seemed to 
merge together. As I look back on the con
cert very little stands out in my mind. Even 
Take Five, his one easily recognized song 
seemed just like all the others. The con
cert also suffered from a sound system that 
was too low. For once a school concert was 
presented without hardly any mistakes. 
The stage was set up nice and there was an 
impressive sound system present. Unfor
tunately the music was turned down so low 
that it seemed it wasnt even needed. But 
the concert was so mellow that nothing 
would have been smarter than to turn up 
the sound system, feven slow, intricate jazz 
piano can be pretty impressive when it 
comes roaring out of the speakers.
All in all, the concert was slightly bor
ing, although some parts were very enter
taining. I think that Brubeck could have 
presented a more varied and energetic act 
without distracting from his jazz roots. 
Even with all its various faults and mellow
ed out pace, the concert was for most of 
the fans, very enjoyable and an excellant 
Carnival weekend.
Keryn Stein as Violet Egan is quite convincing 
as a down-to-earth country girl.
by Ted Smits
Jazz is often a very bizarre type of 
music. For listeners who are used to rock 
& roll pure jazz does not always sound so 
appealing. Jazz musicians often spend too 
much time and energy getting in to the 
music instead of trying to satisfy the aud
ience. This is almost what happened Fri
day night at the Carnegie Music Hall. Jazz 
legend Dave Brubecks concert was in some 
ways perfect. The three musicians with him 
all performed extremely well and fit right 
in with Brubecks style. But even though 
most of the audience loved it and forced 
Brubeck to play two encores,there seemed 
to be something missing from the show.
Dave Brubeck entertained a packed Carnegie 
Music Hall audience last Friday night.
Dave Brubeck is sixty-two years old and 
has been playing jazz music for most of his 
life. In this concert he played piano and 
was accompanied by a drummer, bassist 
and tenor saxophone player. Most of the 
songs in the show consisted of long instru
mental jams in which each performer has 
his own solo. The usual number was cen
tered around Brubecks mellow, complex 
piano work. The other performers would 
play basically just what they wanted until 
it was time for them to play their solos. It
'Watercolors' needed time
Tom Wood and Judi Hoffman as Dr. and Mrs. 
Vogel provide some of the best performances 
in the show.
by Dan Livak
While watching Watercolors, this years 
Scotch n Soda spring musical, one must 
bear in mind that Scotch n Soda is an am
ateur theatrical company comprised of stu
dents, and that these students have many 
demands on their time for things'other 
than rehearsing for Watercolors-, indeed, it 
would be difficult not to realize this while 
watching the play. A little more prepar
ation time would probably have helped to 
shape up this ambitious but untidy endeav
or.
Watercolors deals with city life versus 
country life, fast living versus taking ones 
timecertainly not a new theme in the 
theatre, but then many successful plays 
have been based on themes older than this 
one. However, if a play simply spits out the 
same old stuff as do previous plays based 
on the same theme, why write another 
one? Unless the piece is going to make new 
and/or startling revelations, or be so intrin
sically interesting that the audience doesnt 
mind that theyve heard it all before in 
some other form, why reiterate tired and 
trite statements?
While it is evident that the actors are
handicapped by the vehicle in which they 
are forced to perform, the performers 
themselves should not be faulted. With a 
few notable exceptions, the cast seems to 
have worked quite hard on Watercolors. 
Keryn Stein, the female lead, has a lovely 
singing voice, and she is quite convincing as 
a down-to-earth country girl, Violet Egan. 
Chrissy Garrity as Cyndy Vogel, Violets 
city counterpart and friend, also does a 
fine job promoting th^ virtues of city life 
In fact, the entire Vogel family,
Henry (Tom Wood), mother Darlene 
Hoffman) and brother Tom (Josh Bloom) 
provide some of the best performances in 
the show. All project consistently strong 
characterizations, particularly Ms. Hoffman 
as a domineering, emasculating, and explos
ive housewife.
The Egan family, however, doesnt fare 
quite so well. Dr. Egan (David Sheward) 
smirks throughout the play and seems to 
be contemptuous of somethingwhether it 
is of the other characters or the play itself 
is difficult to guess. His excessive ham
ming provides the audience with a few 
laughs, but for the wrong reasons, and his 
Continued on page 21

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20T ART ANApril 24, 1979
lArf, Smith replies.I still want to lick your eyes
CMU EXPRMC Sp 
CMU rinrgNE 
MPNSrPCPUS-,
ESXXUCPSN 
gND CMU 
grMS rgCU.aoesN'TiNvat
Mt.J
CMU
ErgpC-.
From left to right: William Raymond, Terry O'Reilly, Ruth Maleczech, and Fred Neuman appear 
in 'The Shaggy Dog Animation."
HOMECOMING '79
To insure a successful Homecoming in the Fall, planning 
must be done now. A meeting for any representatives of 
stuent organizations interested in participating in 
Homecoming '79 will be held
THURSDAY, APRIL 26 
8:00 p.m. 
ROOM 11.SKIBO 
Points to be discussed:
1. Theme for Homecoming '79
2. Float Judging
3. Ms. Varsity Selection
4. Your Ideas

For further information contact SARC, 501 Warner Hall, 
5000 Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15213.
Phone - 578-2060.
'The Winter's Tale' confuses because of changes in plot
Unfortunately, the shows audio portion 
is not as strong as the visual, like lighting, 
costumes, and props. Kresge Theatres ac
oustics and the Shakespearean wording 
work against the cast in Acts I to III, es
pecially. The rapid dialogue in those acts 
makes many lines unintelligible.
In the Bohemian segment, however, the 
show comes together. The actors from the 
court sequence, playing ppralle} parts in the 
second half of the play, project more con
scientiously, speak more slowly, and articu
late more carefully. Acts IV and V are 
quite easy to follow, in contrast to Acts I 
and III.
Darroch Greer, playing Polixenes son, 
Florizel, is particularly memorable in the
later acts; Lucinda Danner (Hermione) and 
Laurie Klatcher (Paulina, a gentlewoman) 
are also strong in their roles. Hall Hunsinger (Leontes), Gary Boyer (Polixenes), and 
Michael Greenberger (Camillo) are all ad
equate in their portrayals, as are the sup
porting players.
Although this production of The Win
ter s Tale has some remarkable features, 
namely its technical effects, it remains a bit 
bewilcfering. To avoid confusion, Id sug
gest reading the original version of the play 
before seeing the show; youll leave with a 
clearer conception of the action.
The Drama Department will present The 
Winters Tale in Kresge Theatre through 
April 28. Tickets are available at the Fine 
Arts Box Office.
by Kate Bertrand
The Drama Departments production of 
Shakespeares The Winters Tale opened 
last Thursday night to a slightly confused 
audience. The play, originally set in clas
sical times, has been reset in the Napoleon
ic era. This led to some head-scratching.
The play, as originally set, is confusing 
enough; it starts with Leontes, ruler of Sic
ilia, entertaining his childhood friend, Pol
ixenes, at the Sicilian court. A groundless 
jealousy soon overcomes Leontes, and he 
starts believing that his wife, Hermione, is 
in love with Polixenes. He also suspects 
that the child she will soon bear is Polix
enes. The play goes on to show the results 
of Leontes jealousy, including the loss of
his wife, children and advisor, and his 
reunion with them later.
Shakespeares plot is rendered more 
confusing by the time transposition in this. 
production. The scene where Leontes 
speaks of Apollos oracle at Delphds is par
ticularly bewildering, despite efforts to 
pass it off as part of Leontes madness.
In another departure from Shakespeare, 
the bulk of the play is portrayed as a 
dream. Scrooges nocturnal adventures in 
Dickens A Christmas Carol come instant
ly to mind. Luckily, the innovation 
worksthe plot flows more easily as fan
tasy than as coincidence-prone reality. Bar
bara Roschachs lighting during the realityto-fantasy transitions is exquisite.
Regular theatre preferred
by Syd Price
Its only on account of my friend Smith 
that I go, you understand. Ive never heard 
of the company Mabou Mines even though 
theyve been active in New York for 17 
years; the title The Shaggy Dog Animation 
does not stimulate my auditory senses; and 
if indeed this is, as the press release claims, 
one of the finest achievements in alterna
tive theatre, I can only reply that I like 
good ol regular theatre just fine and Im 
not looking for alternatives.
However I am open, and Smith is not to 
be put off. Actually, it seems to me rather 
odd that he goes in for this sort of contem
porary experimental thing, being as he is a 
bit out of place in this decade. He sports a 
crewcut, brown penny loafers (complete 
with pennies), and a polyester double-knit 
grey suit thats too short in the legs and 
creeps up his behind when he walks. But 
foi all these eccentricities, Smith is not 
such bad company. I agree to go.
The announcer begins,The whole play 
is about a dog, possibly a woman, named 
Rose. I suggest to Smith that we exchange 
our seats for two right next to the aisle in 
order to facilitate a hasty retreat in the 
likely event that it is desirable. Still normal 
at this point, he shushes me. The play 
starts.
The whole play is about a dog, possibly 
a woman, possibly the radio that is situa
ted at the back of the stage, possibly the 
toilet that is situated in the front. It is about a puppet named Rose and a puppet 
named John who has left Rose. But did 
John leave Rose the dog, or Rose the pup
pet, or Rose that the puppet represents? 
I look to Smith for commentary. He mere
ly sniffles.
The actors on stage for the first part on
ly manipulate the puppets. Most of the 
voices and sound are on tapes which are 
played back from the four comers of the 
theatre. I find the monotonous drone of 
the voices dreadful, the abstract rambling 
of the monologues annoying. Listen, 1 
whisper into Smiths fuzzy ear - his hair 
^ has grown a good two inches since we sat 
down -  In mv anxiety I laid a turd on 
the
In support of faith 1 cultivated madness,
- theyre rambling, Smith, I tell you, ram
bling inanely. Smith licks the back of his 
latently hairy hand. I try again. All right, 
look Smith, the essential plot is this: John 
has left Rose whom he treated like a dog, 
and she is heartbroken. A plot this sparse 
calls for, at the very least, a strong emo
tional portrayal, doesnt it? Well of course 
it does. But look, the voices are all mechan
ized, the stage is made up of electronically 
lighted machines, and John and Rose are 
puppets. If Rose is suffering it doesnt 
come through, and if shes not suffering 
why are we listening to an hour and a half 
of this mush? Whats the point? Okay. I 
admit that nowadays only functional re-, 
tards concern themselves with the point, 
and Im willing to grant that it isnt necess
arily a valid question. Still, I think Smith 
could find some more decorous way of ex
pressing his disapproval than lifting his left 
leg and defiling the furniture.
But Ill try to see it from Smiths point 
of view, because his constant wincing indi
cates to me that he finds this a moving ex
perience. Yes, its true that people think in 
such monotonous, edited, perverse ways. 
Its true the author has good insight into 
the nature of human thought. Its further
more true that this is an original way to ap
proach a weary subject. But for chrissake, 
Smith, Im BORED.
After weve been treated to undressed 
puppets, multiple phone booths, Holly
wood tape editing, a man who didnt start 
screwing until he was 35, and a 9-year-old 
girl in a pink sequin gown, the play ends. I 
look over my program notes and discover 
that what weve just seen is not really The 
Shaggy Dog Animation; rather, it is The 
Shorter Shaggy Dog Animation  the com
plete version runs four hours. I am weak 
with nausea at the thought. My God, 
Smith,  I exclaim to my companion 
whose polyester suit has sprouted a ragged 
mass of tangles, and whose eyes are all but 
visible under the thick growth of fur, Can 
you imagine sitting through four hours of 
weird lighting and taped electronic drone 
voices?
gEgrCMUPD gND 0CMU2 
MUMgN rPRMPS 
VPSXgCPSNS---------------------------------------------------

April 24, 1979TARTANPage 21
The mock group Padness outdoes Devo just before being gonged off the stage at the Gong Show 
in the tent last Saturday.
exaggerated antics are, at times, distracting.
Mrs. Egan (Audrey Kania) has an undevel
oped and uninteresting role, which is too 
bad; Ms. Kania has a nice singing voice, her 
characterization is good, and her talents do 
not seem to have been utilized to their ful
lest.
The lab assistants of Dr. Egan (Fred La 
Pointe, Martin Nelson, and Kevin Cline) all 
perform ably, as do most members of the 
supporting cast. The bumbling trios rendit
ion of Yes, Dr. Egan, is especially wellperformed. Alan Barnaby (Michael Soncrant), another assistant to Dr. Egan, is an 
obnoxiously conceited playboy. Soncrant 
put forth a good performance, helped by 
his strong singing voice.
The costumes are unusual, to say the 
least. Bobby sox and saddle shoes from the 
50s, white vinyl boots and miniskirts from 
the 60s, and shirts and skirts from the 70s 
give the play a timeless quality; so time
less as to be disconcerting. The sets, back
drops, and choreography all would be bet
ter suited to a high school production. The 
direction also seems to be less than ade
quate-many of the performers are ob
viously more comfortable addressing their 
own feet than speaking .to the audience.
This is the third Scotch n Soda pro
duction Ive seen, and by far the least pol
ished. I did see Watercolors on opening 
night, however, so hopefully some of the 
rough edges may work themselves out be
fore the play ends. The people involved 
have obviously put a lot of work into this 
show; it is unfortunate Spring Carnival isnt 
ii few weeks latersome more time could 
have made all the difference.
by Melody Mazzie
On Saturday atternoon, the Spring Car
nival held an event that packed the tent to 
standing room. The Gong Show may 
well have been the biggest attraction since 
the buggy races. Hosting the show were the 
infamous Sloppy Joe and Devereaux, who 
sported several different outfits varying 
from sailor suits to bathrobes.
A total of ten acts participated in this 
years Gong Show. Among them were a 
group known as Padness, a take-off on 
Devo; a two-man comedy skit, an accor
dionist who played Feelings, a group of 
hippies called War Babies that paraded 
around to the tune of Revolution and 
held a sign saying Stop the Draft This 
Time, a soloist who sang I Honestly 
Love You, Tarzan and the Dancing Ele
phant (better described as the Dancing Ele
phant and the Pooper Scoopers), and a 
Bill Cosby monologue about Noah and the 
Ark.
The awards, however, went to three 
unique and imaginative acts. First place, a 
trophy of a horses posterior, a check for 
$25.78, and two paper clips, was taken by 
a group of six known as The Macho 
Men. Dressed in the style of the Village 
People and performing to the tune of 
Macho Man, this group was by far the 
most exciting act. The highlight of their 
routine was the ripping in half of a phone 
book by one of the machos.
by C. T. Goodman
The story of The Wizard of Oz is old, 
but in its most recent, musical, glorified 
form - The Wiz - it is anything but. The 
April 17th opening night audience at Heinz
Second place, again a trophy of the bet
ter part of a horse and a check for $15.53, 
went to opera singer April Armstrong, 
whose combination of musical talent and 
comedy was superb.
Last, and indeed least, was worst prize 
a trophy of the rear view of a horse, a 
check for $10.17, and 12 Vi sheets of toi
let paper. This coveted award was snatched 
by Henry Thome and his Two Sticks. As
Hall witnessed an evening of pure creativity 
and rebirth as the national production of 
the Tony award winning Broadway musical 
took the Baum classic and tremendously 
reinterpreted it for everyones viewing 
pleasure. With unique concepts, beautiful 
costumes, exciting choreography, and dy
namic individual performances, The Wiz 
proved itself worthy of all the praise and 
admiration it has received since its debut 
four years ago.
The innovative costuming has to be the 
most striking aspect of The Wiz, with the 
Tinman dressed in old beer and garbage 
cans, the Lion in a fur tuxedo with a fur 
mane/collar and the munchkins in shorten
ed, mobile, billowing tents. The exciting 
production numbers which combine the 
lovely Charlie Smalls musical score and 
brilliant George Faison choreography runs 
a close second. Especially noteworthy are 
The Tornado Ballet - the dancers simu
late a tornado simply with their frenzied 
movements and a long streamer -, Em
erald City Ballet (Pssst) - in various 
shades of green, the dancers set an elite 
mood through visual elegance - , and 
Everybody Rejoice - a celebration of the 
Wicked Witchs death by her subjects and 
the four heros. The Wiz also features some 
of the most moving songs of the decade in 
Soon As I Get Home (Dorothy), Be A 
Lion (Dorothy and Lion), What I WoulH 
Do If I Could Feel' (Tinman), and of 
course, the climatic, Home. (Dorothy) 
The individual performances of the 
company are also in line with the shows 
conceptual excellence. Bobby Hill, Jai Os
car St. John, and Garry Q. Lewis, as the 
Lion, Tinman, and Scarecrow, respectively, 
all give excellent performances as the deter
mined, frightened, yet lovable Wizard seek
ers. Their colorful personalities electrify 
the stage simply by their presence. And 
their voices, especially the Tinmans in his 
solo, ...Feel, only increase the voltage. 
Jo Ann Washington and Juanita Fleming 
(The Good Witches), were also audience 
favorites. Unfortunately, these performers 
frequently overshadowed Lillias D. Whites 
Dorothy, mainly due to the color of
Henry masterfully banged away on the
drums, two would-be ballet dancers in jog
ging suits arabesqued around the stage and 
continually crashed into each other. In the 
words of Henry, the act took years of 
practice 
All in all, the Gong Show was a great 
success and a lot of fun for both partici
pants and spectators.
their characters, but also due to a forced 
act by Ms. White. Often her Dorothy bor
dered on Shirley Temple making it seem 
overplayed. Nevertheless, her voice which 
was strong and clear, pulled back some of 
the realsim and importance her character 
deserved.
Although based on the Baum classic, 
The Wiz boasts many differences. First of 
all, The Wiz employs a delightful person
ification of all inanimate objects such as 
The Yellow Brick Road, The Tornado, and 
The Poppies. Secondly, a few additions of 
characters and one deletion, and thirdly, 
a substitution of the Dorothy/Scarecrow 
special relationship with Dorothy/Lion 
one. Although a bit disorienting for a view
er familiar with the classic, this last differ
ence is developed throughout the perform
ance.
In its return engagement to Heinz Hall, 
The Wiz was accepted and rejoiced in all 
four performances. A tribute to the ori
ginal book/movie, a visual masterpiece and 
a wonderful, entettaining night out. The 
Wiz is a definite must whenever it comes 
to town. Next time around, ease on down 
to it.
Marlin . . .
Continued from page 19
All in all, it was a nice show and Marlin 
handled himself well. If he could just find 
someone to write better jokes for his 
unaided monologues, Marlin would have a 
highly unusual and exciting show.
TARTAN 
Staffers 
Do it all 
Weekend!!
Ro.4 in Hie CUTS BOOKSTORE T-Shirt Collector's Series
CONTEST STARTS APRIL 24 !
'The Wiz' is enjoyable evening of theatre
Watercolors...
Continued from page 19Gong show brings out CMU 'talent'
photo by Robert Zusman

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22-TARTAN-April 24, 1979
Director of the Poetry Forum "should heed his own words
//
by Karen Locitzer
Note: Edward Braith waite, noted West 
Indian poet, was scheduled to read at Iasi 
Wednesdays International Poetry Forum. 
Due to difficulties leaving Jamaica, he mis
sed his Florida connection to Pittsburgh. 
Samuel Hazo, Director of the Forum, 
stood up to read instead, after offering a 
full refund to those who wanted to leave.
The saying goes: Those who can, do; 
those who cant, teach. If Sam Hazo, Dir
ector of the International Poetry Forum, is 
any example, then it is also true that those 
who cant do, organize. His poems, long 
obscure arguments debating such vague 
concepts as living, mattering and being 
blind, are devoid of emotion and imagery. 
And intellectualizations, which can be in
teresting and worthy of poems, became,in 
his poetry, nothing more than the muddy 
musings of a middle-aged man.
As a writer, I was embarassed that such 
maudlin musings are called poems, but 
worse, I was offended by the platitudes 
and trite profundities with which he intro
duced them. The experience had them, 
but they didnt have the experience, he 
said, introducing a poem he didnt give the 
title to, and Oedipus wasnt blind any
more after they gouged his eyes out, a 
lesson I am sure we all learned in tenth 
grade.
His poems are laced with such super
fluous delicacies as ...alternatives I could 
have lived/pronounced by lived years 
lost... or ...stillness is stillness... Both 
these lines are from To A Bicyclist in 
France, a poem ironically aware of the 
many paths lives can travel.
While three out of the fourteen poems 
Hazo read did not contain the words death 
and/or god and/or darkness, these three 
tried unsuccessfully to raise equally over
used and bulky ideas to poetry, only to 
sink with heavy intellectualizations. Leaf-, 
ing, a series of sentences describing rak
ing (which ' I guess wasnt a profound 
enough word to title a poem with), seems 
to be no more than a poem realizing that 
nature will go into hiding for a while. So 
death, though unmentioned, is the theme.
In another poem, Toast for the Lost 
Lieutenants, a recitation of memories of 
and information about his army buddies, 
Hazo intoned a mans name only to follow 
it with ...who left no memory worth men
tioning... Now while that may be true, it 
is rude to the listener to introduce a char
acter and give no characterization. There 
are many more graceful and interesting 
ways of saying that this man was unmemorable. Like maybe: No one remembers 
anything about him, thus giving the poor 
bland soul an air of mystery and the line 
a bit more humor.
Decent imagery and interesting language 
are lacking in Hazos poems. Occasionally,
ie uses alliteration and repetition, simple 
tools which dont rfequire much talent. A 
poet should somehow manipulate the lan
guage to show his or her visions, thoughts, 
or emotionsthat is what makes poems in
teresting. Hazo has no more personal in
sight or facility with language than the av
erage ex-army man turned teacher and mid
dle class citizen.
I give Hazo two brownie points. One, he 
had his poems memorized and said that 
they were just a part of him. Two, all too 
rarely, he came up with a good image. 
When describing the cruelty of life, he says 
that ...flesh is always in season... Minis
ters are ...as bored as serious furniture... 
and highways are ...hung from steel 
harps...
A line from the first poem Hazo read, 
For a Poet who Writes Without Knowing 
Why, tried to define poetry; The final 
poetry is silence... Perhaps Hazo should 
consider becoming a final poet. Silence is, 
at least, unpretentious.
Academy Awards are more politics than quality cinema
by David Sheward
Last weeks Annual Academy Awards 
telecast was a mixed blessing for me. Al
though all my nomination predictions did 
not pan out (the only category I got right 
was Best Actress) all of my predictions for 
winners were right with the exception of 
Maggie Smiths victory in the Supporting 
Actress division. The sweep predicted for 
that charming but vacant piece of fluff, 
Heaven Can Wait, in the Washington and 
Beyond column, failed to materialize. The 
Warren Beatty brainchild received only one 
citation in Art Direction. (I think Beatty 
got an actor nomination just so that statis
ticians and gossip columnists could say, 
Look at him! Hes got four nominations 
for the same picture! But thats neither 
here nor there.) 
I was correct in my guesses about The 
Deer Hunter, Jon Voight, Jane Fonda and 
Christopher Walken. Thats the good part. 
The bad part is that this years production 
was just as long and tedious as all the 
others. Master of ceremonies Johnny Car
son did provide some genuine comic relief 
with acid comments like,I see some new 
faces out in the audience tonight, especial
ly on the old faces. But Carsons Tonight 
Show repartee was not enough to offset 
such dreadful moments as a totally unne
cessary and overlong medley of songs that 
werent nominated for Oscars, performed 
by show bizs blandest personality ,Steve 
Lawrence, and its gaudiest, Sammy Davis, 
Jr.
The presentors were the usual parcel 
of stars and semi-stars whipping out glass
es to read poor jokes from cue cards. The 
weirdest pairing of the evening was Racquel Welch, respelendent in a tight blue.
glittering pants suit, perfectly made-up, 
and Dean Martin in a rumpled tuxedo do
ing his tired drunk act, cutting in on the 
winners acceptance speech and making an 
all-around jackass out of himself. The sub
lime and the ridiculous. Only Shirley MacLaine, when about to present the Best Act
ress award, managed to rise above this pre
packaged drek by advising her brother, 
Oh, Warren, think what you could accom
plish if you tried celibacy.
The highlight of the evening and its on
ly saving grace was the tribute to the 
worlds greatest living actor, Laurence Oliv
ier. The brief glimpses of Sir Laurences di
verse and brilliant performances from his 
sixty films were more illuminating and en
tertaining than the rest of the three and a 
half hour telecast.
I predicted that Maureen Stapleton 
would win the Supporting Actress award 
for Interiors. When Maggie Smith won for 
California Suite, I began to wonder why 
Smiths highly theatrical, sharply funny 
performance was better than Stapletons 
naturalistic, warm and moving one? Why 
was she better than any of the other nomi
nated actresses? Why were any of the winners any better than any of the losers? I
came to the conclusion that they were not
Pregnant? And you didn't 
mean to be? For a free 
pregnacy test and con
fidential, understanding 
support, call Birthright.
621-1988
'cL'*
SPEND A SEMESTER IN SPAIN
THE AMERICAN COLLEGE 
OF BARCELONA
A 2 year liberal arts college in Spain's most cosmopo
litan city.
Small classes. Credits transferable. V. A. approved.
Credits may be earned at the University of Barcelona 
Autonoma by those fluent in Spanish.
VIA AUGUSTA, 123 - BARCELONA - 6
better, but that they happened to be in the 
right place at the right time. Voight was in 
a Vietnam picture in a year of Vietnam pic
tures and had not won before (as Robert 
DeNiro had). Fonda was number one at the 
box office (as Jill Clayburgh was not), and 
so on and so on. The Oscars award excell
ence only incidentally; they are really a 
promotion for the winning pictures and the 
motion picture industry in general. If they 
were really concerned with quality, they 
wouldnt have to be shown on television; 
the musical numbers and awful presentor 
wordplay could be eliminated, and they 
could just hand out the awards, or just
mail the winners certificates. All this tin
sel glamour is to get ratings for whatever 
network the show is on and encourage the 
general public to go to the movies.
Its a promotional circus now anyway, 
so why not include politics, personality 
differences and whatnot? Last years Van
essa Redgrave-Paddy Cheyefsky tiff, 74s 
streaker bumping into Liz Taylor, and Mar
lon Brando and George C. Scotts refusals 
were the only memorable moments on re
cent Oscar telecasts. So forget about quali
ty and the state of the art in film, leave 
that to highbrow critics like me, bring on 
the trapeze acts and elephants. .
kdandkfe Big Bargain to Europe 
Just Got Bigger.
IptrodocingWide-Bodv DC-10 Service 
to the Heart of Earope.*299 Roondtrip.
And our great bargain price is stiD the same as before. Just $299 roundtrip from New York to Luxembourg, $149.50 one way. Price includes an excellent dinner, free wine and cognac. No restrictions. Tickets can be purchased anywhere in the U.S.A. and are good for a full year. DC-10 flights leave and return five times weekly.There has been one other change at Icelandic. We have a brand new symbol and have added Tcelandair to our name.
I
For more information see your travel agent. Or write Dept. 
Wc-396lcelandic Airlines, P.O. Box 105, West Hempstead, NY 
11552. Or caD toll free. In New York City, 757-8585; in New 
York State, (800) 442-5910; elsewhere. (800) 223-5000.
I NAME
IADDRESSII CITY.
I
STATEICELANDICKXLAMOAM

---------------------------------------------------

April 24, 1979 - I ARTAN-Page 23
Friday the 13th turns into an 'Evening of the Blues'
by Ted Smits
Friday the thirteenth, I don't know a 
better day for the blues. With this fitting 
' introduction, B.B. King and Bobby Blue 
Bland presented a true Evening of the 
Blues. The two master bluesmen showed 
a packed Stanley theater that the blues still 
exist. The middle-aged, extremely enthu
siastic crowd were treated to two shows 
that demonstrated the reasons for the 
Blues almost universal appeal.
One of the greatest guitarists in the 
world, B.B. King has influenced blues, 
jazz and rock musicians alike. He has 
played the .blues for over twenty-five 
years but it wasnt until the late sixties 
that he. received widespread acclaim. 
His musical experience was clearly shown 
in his easy, relaxed stage presence. B.B. 
King no longer has the problem of not 
being recognized but he now 
must deal with the fact that he is a virtual 
living legend among most musicians! The 
fans at the show were very familiar with his 
material and greatly appreciated the efforts 
of the musicians. Kings excellent blues 
guitar work and fine vocals were just 
what the audience wanted.
Upon taking the stage King spoke of his 
recent tours in the Soviet Union. He im
mediately informed the crowd that they do 
indeed have the blues in Russia. King 
then opened his show with an excellent 
version of Caldonia. This song demon
strated his unique guitar skill. The loud, 
screaming blues notes that came from 
Lucille (his guitar) showed rock & rolls 
debt to B.B. King. It was Kings guitar 
work that earned him his reputation and 
also caused him to have such an influence 
on the music world. Unfortunately the 
''inching songs guitar work was the most 
rocking he got. After that most of the
songs were more centered on his singing 
than his guitar. Even so the concert was 
still very enjoyable. Excellent versions of 
Nobody Loves Me but My Mother, 
Lucille and The Thrill is Gone high
lighted the show. The Thrill is Gone was 
noticably missing his great guitar work but 
was otherwise enjoyable. Overall Kings 
show was a little short but was still a prime 
example of excellent blues music.
Bobby Blue Bland opened the show with 
a fiery set that easily matched Kings in 
pace and excitement. Bobby Blue Bland 
places much more emphasis on singing 
(he does not play any instruments) and 
also uses an extensive horn section. The 
crowd seemed to know every one of his 
songs and were able to follow along with 
his lyrics. Blands band has a rhythm and 
blues style that was similar to early Chic
ago work. The band worked very well 
with him, especially lead guitarist Wayne 
Bennet and guitarist Johnny Jones. Bobby 
Blue Blands vocals and their jazz-blues 
guitar work combined to present excellent 
versions of Today 1 started Loving 
You Again and Stormy Monday
After the show 1 talked with guitarist 
Wayne Bennet. He believes that he is a 
jazz guitarist not a blues guitarist. He 
explained that he has been playing for over 
twenty-five years. Most of the time he 
played in the studio but for the last few 
years he has been touring. Bobby Blue 
Bland and B.B. King are two of the few 
performers around who play the blues with 
a style that is uniquely their own. The 
concert at the Stanley was appreciated by 
the audience and performers like. There 
are not too many concerts like that these 
days.
B.B. King the
Ik
'dynamic gentleman of the blues/' appeared at the Stanley on Friday the 13th.
AB COFFEEHOUSE PRESENTS
GILBERTOGIL
One of South America's foremost exponents 
of latin pop/rock makes his 
North American debut.
FRIDAY  4/27 AT 9:30 
SKIBO COURTYARD
FREE!
NIGHTINGALE
On Elektra Records and Tapes
Listen for Gilberto Gil's Nightingale album on WRCT.

---------------------------------------------------

Summer fashions will be easy to warm up to
by Joan Livitski
Ballet is undoubtedly one of the most 
graceful and elegant forms of dance, and 
the Pittsburgh Ballet Thearte's expression 
of this mode has brought much enjoyment 
to Pittsburgh audiences. Their recent spon
sorship of Bouquet, a fashion show held at 
the Carnegie Music Hall in connection with 
Saks Fifth Avenue, was a fitting choice for 
a fund raising project. The fluidity of 
movement and energy that is so much a 
part of ballet, is a major characteristic of 
this years Spring/Summer fashions.
The show opened with a'short ballet 
entitled Mobile. This performance 
served as a unique welcome to the event 
and an introduction to the PBT itself.
The first segment of the fashion show 
spotlighted spots as polka dots turned 
everyones head 180 degrees. The black 
and white Combinations had the strongest 
visual impact, but the possibilities are 
hardly this limited. This season, polka dots 
will not only be highly colorful but will 
be shown in every way from symmetric 
plotting to haphazard speckling.
The natural, earthly look will remain a 
central part of the fashion scene, especial
ly for casual wear. Styles are more practi
cal, and the use of natural fibers provides 
for more comfort. Silk, linen and cotton 
will continue to be the most widely used 
fabrics for Summer garments in predomi
nate colors of lily, sage, pearl, teal, coco
nut, and tobacco. Yet the whole look will 
get a face-lift as strong, bold, and even 
bright colors become intermixed with the 
naturals.
Summer just wouldnt be Summer 
though if the bright colors didnt make a 
splash on their own. Everything from play 
to evening wear can be found vivid enough 
to dazzle a crowd or just give that cer
tain someone a high-voltage jolt. To really 
get your message up in neon lights, pair up 
unconventional color combinations such as 
lilac and tangerine.
Red, white and blue and the nautical 
look will be featured both day and night. 
Bathing suits are ultra-revealing whether 
theyre skimpy bikinis or form-fitting one 
piece-ers. Suits will show long, narrow 
skirts slit up the back or at the side high 
on the thigh or even to the hip. These will 
be paired with a variety of jacket styles 
ranging from long and narrow to short and 
tailored to full and belted. The pin stripe 
suit will be the one big fashion staple for 
men.
Evening wear will have a simple, bare
ly there' quality. Black is still the key 
color for night and will often be accented 
with rhinestones. Accessories, as always,
Shoulder-bags, wide brimmed hats, and natural 
fibers will all be prevelant this summer.
If you looked like this, no one would mind seeing 
"spots."
Between segments of the fashion show, dancers 
from the PBT performed.
will make or break many of the outfits.
Shoes rise to extremes as heels go tall and 
spiked for strapeless sandles, T-straps, and 
spectator pumps and then fall flat for slip 
on sandles and thongs in metalic gold.
Clutch bags are still being tucked under 
the arm, but the shoulder bag is making a 
real comeback. Pouches attached to belts 
are made in styles suitable for both sports
wear and disco dancing. Belts are narrow 
and wrapped twice or wide to cinch the 
waist. Hats are still tops whether pill box 
or wide brimmed.
Donna Karan and Louis DellOlio, who 
were the special guests, showed their 
Spring and Summer collection for Anne 
Klein. One of the most distinguishing 
characteristics about their clothing was 
the way- the type and color of fabrics 
complimented and enhanced the cut of 
their designs. Soft silks, knits and mesh 
fabrics, which they seem to make most use 
of, hug the body seductively yet still have 
the movement to flow with the body at 
every turn. Their cloths can best be de
scribed as shimmering. They not only 
catch the light, they catch the eye. The 
use of gold and glitter trims and threading 
add a finish of sparkle to the garments.
Colors of deep burgundy, navy sage, cop
per and brown are played off each other 
for strong contrasts.
After a long cold winter*, itll be a nice 
change to be swathed in light airy fabrics 
rather than bundled under layer upon 
layer. One thing is for sure, no matter 
what the temperature, the designers Sum
mer lines are ones you can easily warm up Soft knits will hug the body in a revealing 
to. fashion, with necklines cut dangerously low.
Wide belts that cinch the waist will be paired up 
with fuller, pleated pants.
Sailor suits will ride the high seas both day and 
night.
Sftakeskin will be shown for jackets and shoes.
Of course, all well dressed Easter Bunnies will 
waar flowered vests.
Evening clothes will be flowing and feathery 
light.Suit jackets will be loose as well as tailored and belted
Page 24TARTANApril 24, 1979
Photos by Joan Livitski

---------------------------------------------------

p
Ss*
_____________________________SPORTS
BETA echoes victory in Sweepstakes '79
hl/ Mnidiarrl Turnai1 by Howard Turner
Friday April 20 at 9:00 AM marked the 
beginning of the thrilling and highly com
petitive CMU Sweepstakes 79. After two 
days of 19 heated races between 14 organ
izations and their 31 buggies amidst a 
crowd of 2500 spectators, the victors.were 
decided upon. The brothers of Beta Theta 
Pi, last years champs, were again the win
ners in Sweepstakes 79 with a time of 
2:18.4 just -.6 seconds short of the record 
time of 2:17,8 held by Pi Kappa Alpha. 
According to BTP buggy chairman Bill 
Olson, he and his team of driver Jim Cof
fin, and pushers: 1) Ken Hallinen 2) Jim 
Stefano 3) Craig Hladik 4) Pete Recchia 
and 5) Joe Giansante, worked out all the 
bugs, and they were able to perform to 
their best abilities and grasp success in 
Sweepstakes79.
Second and third places were taken by 
Pi Kappa Alpha with the times of 2:19.0 
and 2:24.2 respectively. Sigma Nu claimed 
fourth place with a time of 2:25.6, and 
Alpha Tau Omega claimed fifth with a time 
of 2:28.4. The Carnegie Involvement Asso
ciation took sixth place with no recorded 
time due to an accident.
In the first day of Sweepstakes 79 the 
preliminary heats were held. In the first 
race of the day Kappa Sigmas B team ran 
in a lone heat for a time of 2:55. In the se
cond heat Sigma Nus B team came in 18.3 
seconds faster at 2:36.7 and by the seventh 
heat PIKAs A team was the team to beat 
with a time of 2:24.2. In the next heat 
CIAs A team came across the finish line 
with 2:20.8 and PIKAs A team set the
best time tor the day at 2:19 even.
At the closing of the first day of races 
the six finalists were chosen for final heats 
and championship match. PIKAs A team 
led with 2:19; next was CIAs A team with 
2:20.8, third was BETAS A team with 
2:22.0; fourth came PIKAs B team with a 
time of 2:24.2. SNs A team was fifth with 
a time of 2:25.0 and ATOs A team finish
ed off the six places with a time of 2:30.7. 
These six competitors went on to compete 
for first place in Sweepstakes 79.
Except for a few protests and a few mi
nor accidents, the-Sweepstakes ran quite 
smoothly. The first accident occurred in 
the third heat when CIAs buggy Desire 
(B team) suffered wheel malfunction. The 
next incident occurred when Fringes bug
gy Flying Buttress (A team) suffered axle 
damage after colliding with another teams 
pusher. Delta-Upsilons buggy Duke wreck
ed into a monument in Schenly Park after 
its steering column locked in the tenth 
race. In the ninth race ATO entered a pro
test with Sweepstakes chairman Marianne 
Dwyer. The ATO team protested the fact 
that the SN buggy had cut in front of their
buggy by six inches when the rules state 
that there must be at least two buggy 
lengths between buggies. After consulta
tion Ms. Dwyer decided against the protest, 
Fringe also protested that they be given a 
chance to run again so that they did not 
have to forfeit their chances in the design 
competition. Fringe was given the chance 
to run again.
Photos by Ramanan and Skip Brazelton
____ . ...______________-II.. ix________:N "CDCMrUV" MorHERE I COME! 
sprint.
Ken Hallinen, Beta's hill one pusher, bears down hard in the midst of the gruel.ng
THAR' SHE BLOWS! These hill two pushers get ready to "shove off" their respective ships at the 
top of hill two.
the finals
Beta s Pete Rerchia pushes off to Joe Giansante to complete the final exchange in what proved to 
be the winning >ime of 2:18.4.
The second day of Sweepstakes the wo 
mens heats and the mens finals were 
scheduled to run. After a few alumni and 
non-contention races, the womens heats 
began. This marked the first time in Sweep
stakes history that women could compete.
The first heat slated CIA against Pi 
Lambda Phi. CIA was the winner with a 
time of 3:04.7 and Pi Lam came across the 
finish line 41.3 seconds later at 3:46. In 
the second heat it was the Student Dorm 
Council vs. the Society of Women Engin
eers. SDC was victorious with a time of 
3.11 and SWE finished with 3:37.9.- The 
SDC women had fallen short of their goal 
to defeat their arch rival CIA. After the 
heat, the SDC team and crew entered a 
protest.
Their protest concerned the fact that 
CIA had used another organizations bug
gy and driver. Both of these were against 
the stated rules. The decision was not an
nounced until the awards ceremony Sat
urday evening, and at that time SDC was 
awarded the championship trophy for wo
mens competition. An elated SDC buggy 
chairman Bill Reiner and his team of driv
er Sarah Freestone, and pushers 1) Shari 
Burton 2) Juanita Jordan 3) Cybelia Cart
wright 4) Deneice Williams and 5) Tammy 
Fair were quite pleased with the decision.
The mens finals followed with ATOs 
A team vs. BETAs A team. Each team got
off to a fierce start, and BETA crossed the 
finish line at 2:18.4, just .6 seconds short 
of the record held by PIKA at 2:17.8. 
ATO crossed the line at 2:28.4 which was
3. seconds faster than their previous time. 
Heat two brought PIKAs B team and 
CIAs A team to great disappointment. Af
ter CIAs buggy suffered steering difficulty, 
it spun out right in front of PIKAs buggy. 
The PIKA buggy ran head-on into the CIA 
buggy. Neither driver suffered any injuries, 
although the shell of CIAs Black Magic 
was extensively damaged. CIA was cited to 
be at fault, and as a result of this decision, 
CIA finished sixth and PIKA was given the 
previous days time of 2:24.2. In the third 
and final heat of Sweepstakes 79, PIKAs 
A team and SNs A team were slated to 
compete. Each was determined to beat the 
BETA time of 2:18.4, but PIKA came across the finish line at 2:19.0, the same as 
the day before, and SN finished at 2:25.6, 
just .6 seconds more than their prelimin
aries.
At the end of the grueling competition, 
BETAs A team was victorious, but no one 
was a loser because each had come out of 
the Sweepstakes as one of the top six bug
gy teams in Sweepstakes 79. AH of the 
14 organizations left with hopes for Sweep
stakes 80.
In the Sweepstakes *79 buggy design 
competition BETA finished first with SDC 
claiming second and Delta Tau Delta in 
third place.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 26TARTANApril 24, 1979
* PRELIMINAR Y TIME WAS USED FOR ACCIDENT IN FINALS
DID YOU HEAR THE ONE ABOUT....Who says buggy pride is only trophy deep; certainly not 
these PIKAS.
ESP?,Well, by now we ail know what these letters stand for. Just watch out for the guys next door.
Picture perfect Sweepstakes '79
by Barry Vukoder
Now that another carnival weekend has 
come and gone, we can take a retrospective 
look at what happened and evaluate the 
numerous repercussions which resulted 
from Sweepstakes 79. In the buggy 
competition, after all the back-stabbing, 
nail biting, and tear-jerking moments that 
transpired, Betas Echo was the first to 
emerge from the dust as the victor. Hot on 
the Echos trail were Pikas A and B bugg
ies, and, to round out the top six, Sigma 
Nu-A, ATO-A, and CIA-A followed just 
strides behind.
While no course records were broken, 
the excitement and thrill of competition 
along with the picture perfect weather 
were not in the least bit diminished. For 
Beta, the victory was doubly satisfying. 
Not only did the Echo scream to its second 
consecutive sweepstakes win with a very re
spectable 2:18.400 clocking, but they were 
also rewarded with a first place trophy in 
the design competition. Congratulations 
must go to Betas buggy chairman Bill Ol
son and to the pushers: KenHallinen, Jim 
Stefano, Craig Hladik, Pete Recchia, and 
Joe Giansante. Celebration started imme
diately following the final heat, which was 
delayed for some time, pitting Pikas
Pi-thon vs. Sigma Nus Scorpion. While 
the Betas were casting evil spells upon 
Pika, the brothers of Pi Kappa Alpha 
were attempting to brew a course 
record on the hot track. Their efforts 
fell about a second short; six-tenths of 
a second to be precise. Once the official 
time of 2.19.00 for Pika-A was announced 
the Betas wiped their brows and soon the 
corks were poppin and champagne was 
flowing from the Beta truck. Saturday af
ternoon and evening at the Beta Theta 
Pi House was living proof that buggy pride 
does indeed exist.
The brothers of Pi Kappa Alpha have a 
lot to be proud of also. They were the only 
organization to place two buggies into the 
finals, in the process overcoming adversities 
which many other organizations would 
find almost insurmountable. The unfortu
nate crash between Pika-A and CIA-A 
could easily have hampered the agressive 
instincts of Pikas A-team driver. However, 
evidence of that occurring was no where to 
be found. The Pi-thon finished in 2:19.00, 
duplicating Fridays performance, to secure 
the second place trophy. However, disa
ppointment must still exist for the Pikas as 
numero uno barely eiuded them for the 
second straight year. Nonetheless, their
that they would be able to conquer Beta, 
Pika, or CIA (barring accidents), but be
sides these organizations, Sigma Nus 
Scorpion was the bug to beat. Apparently, 
since they accomplished about what they 
expected, the zoo once again resorted to 
the perpetual party scene. Immediately 
folowing Saturdays races, they could be 
seen and heard driving their buggy truck, 
with most of the house partying in the 
rear. Of course, the zoo always finds some 
reason to celebrate, no matter the out
come.
Possibly the biggest surprise was the 
ATO Ganders fifth-place finish. Not pick
ed in any of the pre-race polls to finish in 
the top six, ATO surprised everyone but 
themselves with their performance. Always 
taking pride in a strong push team, the 
Taus knew that if they could roll like they 
did two years ago, they would definitely be 
a force to reckon with. Thats exactly 
what they did, pushing Phi Kappa Theta 
and Sigma Alpha Epsilon out of the top 
six for at least one year. Last Saturday 
performance warrants as much respect and 
pride as any other competing organization.
Sigma Nu-As. fourth-place finish was 
about as surprising as the Steelers Super 
Bowl victory. It appeared highly unlikely
nights party made last years look like a 
funeral procession in comparison.
Organizations that couldnt be blamed 
for feeling a bit disappointed include: CIA, 
Phi Kap, and SAE. Phi Kap and SAE fell 
just short of the top six, which in light of 
their performances last year daunted their 
spirits. CIA was unable to hold on going 
through the chute at the bottom of Flag
staff Hill. Black Magic appeared to be the 
best rolling buggy in the preliminary heats, 
however, in the finals, the buggy did a 
complete 180 degree turn, coming to a 
sudden stop in the direct path of the speed
ing Pika-B buggy. Magic was consequently 
disqualified, and CIA had to settle for 
sixth place. According to official sweep
stakes regulations, any organization which 
is disqualified in the finals is automatically 
placed at the bottom of the top six list. 
Fortunately, no one was seriously injured.
Well, bragging rights again belong to 
Beta for another year. But Pika, SN, ATO, 
CIA, etc. ... are silently muttering under 
their breaths the old adage, just wait til 
next year! And when next year rolls 
around, you can bet your sweet buggy that 
everyone will be just as prepared, inspired, 
confident, and motivated as they were for 
Sweepstakes 79.
CALL 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A
iQOQOQOOOOOOOOQOOOOOOQOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOQOOOOOOOOOQOOQflOOOOOOQQQOCOOOOOgQOQOOQp iooooli
HEATORGANIZATION/TIMEORGANIZATION/TIMEORGANIZATION/TIME
1KS-A2:55.0? & _ ! * V, " Cf'> -/ ,;C ')? 
2SDC-B3:383 -ZBT-A2:50.5SN-B2:36.7 
3PIKA-C2:31.9CUBTX-A3:11.3...
4 -BETA-C2:46.0PKT-A2:37.5SAE-A2:39.8
5SDC-C3:05.9BETA-B2:31.0DU-B-------WnPHMM6SAE-C3:11.6ATO-B2:35.8 ,DTD-A2:32.2* -V ' j'y V'  ' -  ' ' ? 
7DTD-B2:47.2PIKA-B2:24.2PKT-B2:33.4'fi
8 'CIA-A2:20.8SDC-A2:36.2FRINGE-A
9ATO-A2:30.7PKT-C2:33.7SN-A2:25.0-- 'S' ?
10KS-B2:40.2BET A-A2:22.0DU-A--------%'M' Vv;
11SAE-B2:33.8. PIKA-A2:19.0PiLam2:53.2
FINALS
ATO-A2:28.4BTP-A2:18.4
PIKA-B2:24.2*CIA-Adisqualified
PIKA-A2:19.0SN-A2:25.7
photo by Robert Zusman

---------------------------------------------------

Talk to Manpower.
Weve got summer job 
opportunities for office 
temporaries. Typists, stenos, receptionists, and more.
Work as much as you 
want. Or as little. It's up to you.
Theres a Manpower office almost anywhere youre 
spending the summer. Stop in and well plan a job schedule for you.
0IMAMO/VER*^ TEMPORARY SERVICES
An equal opportunity employer661-2772
How to find 
a summer job.
CMU golf back in swingDogs Bite
April 24,1979-TAR I AN-Page 27
HAIRCUTS
(Wash-CutBlow)
Mon. Tues. Wed. 10-7 
Thure. Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 9-6
PERMANENTS
25
No
Ar lintments
With the spring comes the green grass, 
sunshine and the golf clubs. The CMU golf 
team began its season on April 7th with a 
win and a loss in a trimatch. The Tartans 
prevailed over Hiram but came up a bit 
short against Thiei.
This year, the team was in top form for 
the beginning of the season. The team, and 
Coach Ray Haynes, spent Spring Break in 
Myrtle Beach, playing golf while everyone 
else was a little south in Florida. The early 
practice, which saw the team play 5 of the 
finest courses in South Carolina, was an ex
cellent way to get back in the swing of 
things.
The team can best be described as 
young. Tom Sheridan, a sophmore, is hold
ing down the number one spot on a team 
with only two juniors (Dave Radack, Scott 
Mourier) and 5 other underclassmen (Tony 
Palermo (soph) and freshmen Don Behnke, 
Gary Petrosky, Terry Schladenhaufen and
John Lewis).On April 16, the CMU golf team, coach
ed by Ray Haynes, evened its record to 
2-2 by dumping Thiel and losing to Pitt 
in a tri-match held at Longue Vue Country 
Club in Penn Hills, the Tartans home 
course. The final scores were: CMU - 418 
pts., Pitt - 410 pts., and Thiel - 442 pts. 
CMUs Tom Sheridan was the match 
medalist, shooting a solid 79. He was foll
owed closely by Tony D-Day Palermo, 
who shot an 82, Dave Radack and Gary Pe
trosky, who both turned in 83s. Don Boehnke shot an 85 and John Lewis finished 
with an 89.
Although the future is bright, the team 
is hoping to fair well in the PAC Champi
onships in May. This two day tournament 
will ultimately decide the individual and 
team champion. The Tartans are hoping to 
better last years 2nd place finish.
This should be a good year for the team, 
so keep reading the sports page to see how 
this seasonjturns out.
CMU will tee-off against John Carr
oll and Case at J.C. on April 23.
ALONE AND PREGNANT?
A caring, confidential friend, 
LIFELINE. DOWNTOWN PITTSBURGH 
5624)543. Free Pregnancy Testing. 
Evening Hours Available
.EST PREPARATION 
SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938
Visit Our Centers 
And See For Yourself 
Why We Make The Difference 
Call Days, Eves & Weekends
''Aces*'*'
COLORING
237 ATWOOD STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 15213 
687-3500 
UNISEX HAIR SALON
NARROW MISS-This photo of heat number 9 
in the preliminaries, shows Sigma Nu-A and ATOA during the free roll phase. ATO later filed a 
protest claiming that Sigma Nu illegally cut them 
off. However, Sweepstakes Chairperson, Mar
ianne Dwyer, vetoed the protest.
On Monday April 9th, CMU Faculty 
Bull Dogs Handball Team upset the Grad 
Students One-Arm Bandit team to capture 
the 1979 CMU I.M. Handball Champion
ship.
Stellar Terry Ray of the Bull Dogs up
set previously undefeated Bruce Taber of 
the One-Arm Bandits to put the faculty 
one up. The second match was won by the 
grads as Dan Meier defeated E J. Birdy, but 
A1 Brannick defeated Harry Chezmunski 
to put the Bull Dogs one game ahead.
The unbeatable combination of Bull 
Dogs captain Tom McNulty and A1 
Brannick defeated Bruce Taber and Harry 
Chezmunski to bring the victory 
home for the faculty.
NICE JOB BULL DOGS!
Injuiries plague track team
EDUCATIONAL
CENTER
ESSEX HOUSE U2 
Corner of Negley & Centre 
Pittsburgh 15206
Only 13 members of CMUs track squad 
traveled to West Virginia on Saturday to 
compete in the 15 team West Virginia Re
lays. The injury-riddled Tartans gathered 
up as many members as could stand (re
member Spring Carnival?) and gave it a 
shot against the stiff competition. Out
standing individual performances were 
turned in by freshman Joe Wagner, who 
set a school record in the javelin with a 
1945 heave, and Pete Hull, who placed 
4th in the discus competition with a 
toss of 136. Craig Woolheater once again 
made his presence known in the 10,000 
meter run with a respectable time of 
31:43.00 which captured fourth place.
CMU usually dresses about 2530 mem
bers for track meets, but the combinatior
of nagging injuries and Spring Carnival lim
ited the number available for Saturdays 
competition. Out of the 30 athletes who 
attended the PAC relays last week, 15 are 
injured. Such stalwarts as Dario Donatelli 
(foot), Matt Wherle (knee), and Ed OBrian 
(back) have been unable to perform to ca
pacity. Coach Gary Meckley commented, 
If we can patch ourselves up enough to 
beat Hiram on Wednesday, well have an 
excellent chance at going undefeated. ... 
Injuries have plagued the team all year. 
The Thinclads will take on the Hiram 
Terriers on Wednesday at Hiram in a cru
cial mid-season meet.
Larry Gordons time of 4:03 in the 1500 
meters gave CMU even more strength in 
the distance events. Dave Delo sur. 
prised many people with a :58.4 
second clocking in the 440 inter
mediate hurdles.
Creato?

Thinking about moving OFFCAMPUS
What: THE OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING OPTIONS ARE?
Find out: How Daniels can help!
How to deal with realtors!
What students are experiencing
Where: DANIEL'S REALTY, Oakland Office, 308 McKee Place, Open Daily9 a.m. to 6 p.m. 
CALL: 681-9256REGISTER FOR "SHARE-AN-APARTMENT"NOW RENTING FOR SEPTEMBER 1 , OCCUPANCY ROOMMATE APT. REFERRALS AVAILABLE  FREE
OUR 175 FURNISHED AND UNFURNISHED APTS. ARE REGISTERED SUMMER SUBLETTING SERVICE FREE
WITH THE UNIVERSITY OFF CAMPUS HOUSING OFFICE ALSO *"" Nsv'e *T' *'*'**

---------------------------------------------------

Page 28-TARTAN-April 24, 1979
THE STROH BREWERY COMPANY, DETROIT, MICHIGAN  1978
I dont know much about art, but I do know what I like!9*
For the real beer lover.
IM track, golf to make seasonal debuts
 * -
The Intramural Sports Board will hold 
its most important meeting of the year 
Thursday April 26 at 12:30 to elect a new 
board president and choose the IM Man of 
the Year. All fraternities, dorm reps, wom
en, and anyone else are encouraged to 
attend. A good turnout will ensure a fair 
election.
Nominations may be submitted at the 
IM office in the Skibo gym. Also for IM 
board members, the annual IM dinner will 
be held Wednesday May 2. Details are 
available from Mr. Birdy.
Here is a list of I. M. sports to come:
Table Tennis (individual)the commis
sioner is Jeff McCarthy. Please get all 
games played and the finals completed.
Call Pool (team)Commissioner Eric 
Hirsh urges teams to get all matches 
played.
Call Pool (individual)Commissioner is
Doug Wilson (KS).
Team and Co-rec BadmintonCommis
sioner Pierre Laughton has announced that 
matches will be played Monday through 
Thursday from 7:00 PM to 8:00 PM in the 
main gym. To schedule your match, please 
call Pierre at 578-4230.
There will be an IM Board meeting on 
Thursday April 26, 12:45 in room 104, 
gym.
This years IM track meet will be 
held Wednesday April 25, starting at 4:30 
PM. As the IM board plans for the biggest 
meet ever held, there will be few require
ments to be fulfilled by the competing 
teams in order to facilitate the smooth 
running of the meet.
All teams must submit a copy of their 
rosters and those events each member 
will participate in at 4:00 PM, the day of 
the meet. After the team rosters are sub
mitted, a participant may only compete 
for that team on which he is registered and 
no changes to the roster will be permitted.
Individual participants do not have to 
register for an event until just 
prior to the actual race. Once an event is 
commented, no additional entrants will be 
permitted. Due to lack of batons, all relay 
teams should supply their own batons. 
The date for rain make up is April 27. 
All questions are to be forwarded to Ray 
Smith or call 681-8199. THERE WILL 
ALSO BE SPECIAL HEATS IN ALL 
EVENTS FOR WOMEN ONLY.
The classic First Annual Earl J. Birdy 
Open Golf Tournament is now officially 
scheduledJor SUNDAY APRIL 29 at the 
Schenley Park golf course. Tee off time for 
this intramural extravaganza is 2:00 PM. 
Players must supply their own clubs and 
playing fee. Eighteen holes will be played
to determine an individual champion and 
team champions (4 players).
Interested students, staff, and faculty 
must register in the IM office by noon 
Friday. Order of registration will deter
mine playing order.
Mr. Birdy will be available to autograph 
scorecards, golf balls, and players hats at 
the close of the tournament. Winners need 
not be present. When asked if NBC will 
coVer the tournament, Mr. Birdy replied, 
I havent heard a final decision yet, but I 
am planning on wearing my best suit to 
do the color commentary.
Any questions should be directed to 
Mr. Birdy (x2214) or Mike Pochan 
(x2247). If it rains, well cry.

---------------------------------------------------

April 24, 1979TARTANPage 29
YOU KNOW THE FACTS ABOUT 
THE DRAFT?
ON WEDNESDAY, APRIL 25, at 9:00 P.M. 
WRCT will present a special program entitled
REAL STORYTHE DRAFT: THE
US' Favorite Greeks
Phi Mu Alpna Droxners piayeu uueu lur uu nuuis in uror Ap raise money lor um jau concert mis 3 
Thursday in the Wherrett room. Proceeds from the concert will then be donated to the Hunt 3 
Library record fund.
Ballet Rates on Campus
What is the most popular live entertain
ment act on campus? According to the 
Association of College, University and 
Community Arts Administrators 
(ACUCAA), the surest way to fill a campus 
auditorium is to bring in a dance troupe.
The ACUCAA found that contemporary 
danceincluding balletperformances
could reliably fill 70 percent of a halls 
seats with paying patrons.
The next most popular attraction was 
theater, which averaged 67 percent capacit
ies during 1977-78, the year the group stu
died. Vocal recitals and operas also ranked 
high in average audience size.
Toni Sikes of the ACUCAA theorized 
that the somewhat-surprising results of the 
study had to do with scarcity. She noted 
that, on the whole, dance, vocal .recitals 
and operas were offered less frequently 
than other art forms on campus.
A national comparison listing of college 
fraternities was released recently by the 
College Survey Bureau, Inc. Sigma Chi, Sig
ma Alpha Epsilon and Sigma Phi Epsilon 
were the top three frats in terms of the 
percentage of their chapters getting high
Meir Library
The University of Wisconsin Board of 
Regents has voted 130 to name the UW 
Milwaukee library after late Israeli Prime 
Minister  and former UWMilwaukee 
student  Golda Meir.
The regents vote may not be fhe 
end of it. Al-Armouti said the librarys new 
name could persuade Arab countries to 
withhold sending additional students 
to the university.
ratings in student opinion surveys on their 
individual campuses. Among sororities, Chi 
Omega, Delta Delta Delta, and Kappa Kap
pa Gamma were the top three. The survey, 
computed annually since 1929 and highly 
controversial in some circles for just that 
long, makes the ratings based on a fraterni
tys importance, power and prominence.
WQED/13s eighth annual GREAT TV 
AUCTION will air live from the WQED stu
dios for eight consecutive days, from Sat
urday, May 19, through May 26, from 1:00 
PM to 1:00 AM on weekends and from 
3:00 PM to 1:00 AM on weekdays.
Hundreds of goods, services and trips 
will be auctioned to the highest bidder. 
Area volunteers are collecting donations 
from community members and businesses 
for this major fund-raising event.
ROTC Shows New Image
by Jay Stevens
(CPS)-In its heyday, student protest had 
one golden axiom: seize the ROTC buil
ding. ROTC became a dirty acronym. By 
1973, with enrollment plummeting rapidly 
from the 1969 bonanza of 212,400 to 
75,000, and the General Accounting Office 
suggesting that 134 ROTC units be phased 
out, it looked like ROTC was dead.
Today the Reserve Officers Training 
Corps program rivals pre-med and pre-law 
as an undergraduate enthusism. 
Athletics are in. Uniforms, hair length 
codes, and marching are out. Freshmen and
sophomores are subject to few regulations, 
and scholarship money is plentiful.
Hang gliding, cross-country skiing, scuba 
diving, rappelling and orienteering are part 
of the appeal.
ROTC stresses the physical education 
part of its program, alongwith a let us join 
you appeals that seem out of place in the 
Me Decade. An agressive ad campaign - its 
cost the Army $16 million in the last two 
years  depicts soldiers rappelling or hang 
gliding while ^emphasizing travel opportu
nities, leadership, and the mastering of 
business skills.
Rent an Apartment NOW for 
September I occupancy
600 Studenti 
on McKee Place
Beautiful Furnished Apartments
Featuring: Air-Conditioning, Contemporary Fur_____ii nishing. All included in Lower than Dorm Rents.
Yw Cm SHI Accommodating 1,2,3 and 4 persons per apartment.
Uv Oft CMfM Long or Short Term Rentals with Subletting
Privileges. Campus and Adjacent Areas.
175 Apartments Available 
Also Eff. Apts. 318 N. Neville St. 681-0186 
Oakland Office, 308 McKee. Phone 681-9256 
or Call Dan T. Mosse, 471-1009, 24-Hr. Ans. Service
DANIELS REALTY CO.
Security is important: locked main door, double locks on apartment doors, metal guards lower level windows, caretaker on premise.
SPECIAL GUESTS SHOULD INCLUDE:
e TOM O'NEIL OF THE FRIENDS PEACE CENTER.
 TOM KERR, PENNSYLVANIA CHAIRMAN OF THE AMERICAN 
CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION 
e MAJOR ROBERT RIVERS, HEAD OF CMU ROTC 
e POSSIBLY A REPRESENTATIVE FROM CONGRESS

---------------------------------------------------

ISSUES IN BUSINESS TODAY II, APRIL 28,1979DECISION MAKING WITHIN THE FIRM
A Journey into the Minds of Executives
As the world becomes more complex, the average citizen has trouble under
standing the interaction of seperate elements within it. Perhaps one of the most 
difficult aspects to grasp in society today is the business world and how it relates 
to the general public. For this reason, Carnegie-Mellon University's Student 
Alumni Relations Council (SARC) is sponsoring its second business conference 
entitled: "Issues in Business Today II ". The purpose of the conference is to help 
interested students and alumni get a better understanding of the business world 
and how it affects other facets of our society. Through a series of discussions 
with prominent business leaders, people will be better able to comprehend key 
issues in business, such as marketing, decision making, finance, and research.
Since the free enterprise system is a part of American life, we invite you to 
attend this conference and gain insights into how the marketplace works.
SCHEDULE
Registration and all sessions will be held in Skibo, the Student Activities Center.
SATURDAY, APRIL 28,1979
a.m. 9:00 Registration, Skibo Lobby
Welcome and Orientation, Skibo Ballroom
p.m.
9:45
10:00
11:30
12:30
1:30
2:30
International Finance - The United States in a World 
Marketplace - Donald E. Stingel, Director, Export - 
Import Bank of the United States
Research and Development - The Key to Continued Prosperity?
-Henry Lehne, Vice President Manufacturing Services, 
GTE Products Corporation.
Lunch in the Faculty Dining Room.
Decision Making Within the Firm - A Journey into the 
Minds of Executives - Dr. Herbert A. Simon, Richard King 
Mellon Professor of Computer Science and Psychology, 
Carnegie-Mellon University.
Marketing - The Dynamic Interface Between Producers and 
Consumers * Dr. Alfred A. Kuehn, President Management 
Science Association.
4:00 Reception in Wherrett Room.
INTERNATIONAL FINANCE
The United States in a World Marketplace
DONALD E. STINGEL
Director, Export-Import Bank of the United States
The age of isolation has ended. Oceans which geographically seperate the 
U.S. from other countries have been spanned by economic bridges. Internation
al trade and economic interdependence have had an important effect on our 
economy and lives. As each of our fifty states must interact with one another 
as part of our national economy, the United States must interact with other 
nations as it becomes increasingly dependent on the world economy.
Mr. Stingel is currently Director of the Export-lmport Bank of the United 
States. After graduating from Carnegie-Mellon in 1941 with a B.S. in Metal
lurgy, he worked for the Union Carbide Corporation as an engineer and Division 
Works Manager. In 1961, Mr. Stingel was appointed President of National 
Carbide Division of the Airco Corporation. In 1968, he accepted the Presidency 
of Airco Alloys Division. From 1969 until 1977, Mr. Stingel served as Senior 
Vice President, Executive Vice President and President of the Pullman Swindell 
Company.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
The Key to Continued Prosperity? '
HENRY LEHNE
Vice President of Manufacturing Services, GTE Products Corporation
It has sometimes been said that all of the great discoveries and inventions 
have already been made. Yet today corporations in many industries are allo
cating a greater portion of their budgets to research and development than ever 
before. What is the role of research and development in the competitive firm? 
Is it the key to continued prosperity? These and other issues will be discussed 
by Henry Lehne, Vice President of Manufacturing Services for GTE Products 
Corporation.
Mr. Lehne graduated from Carnegie-Mellon in 1937 with a B.S. in Mechanical 
Engineering. From 1938 through 1952, he held various engineering, marketing, 
and management positions with the Republic Aviation Corporation. In 1950, 
he was appointed Vice President. From 1953 until 1969, Mr. Lehne served in 
general management positions for Sylvania Electric Products, Incorporated. He 
was appointed their Senior Vice President in 1959. Mr. Lehne was Assistant 
Postmaster General from 1969 to 1971. He accepted the Vice Presidency of 
Schlumberger, Ltd. in 1971. In 1974, he accepted the position of Senior Vice 
President with GTE Sylvania.
DR. HERBERT A. SIMON
Richard King Mellon Professor of Computer Science and Psychology,
Carnegie-Mellon University.
In any dynamic organization, the leaders are faced with hundreds of decisions 
they must make at one time or another which will affect the future of the organ
ization. For business executives the situation may be particularly acute. Critic
ally important decisions with hundreds of possible alternative choices must be 
made both quickly and effectively. How do they do it? Dr. Herbert A. Simon 
will present an answer.
Dr. Simon is currently a Richard King Mellon Professor of Computer Science 
and Psychology at Carnegie-Mellon. He received an A.B. in 1936 and a Ph.D. in 
1943 from the University of Chicago. In 1939, he joined the faculty at the 
University of Califprnia at Berkeley. He went to the Illinois Institute of Tech
nology in 1942 and was there until he came to Carnegie-Mellon in 1949. He is 
Former Chairman, Board of Directors, Social Science Research Council (^Bi
de); Chairman, Division of Behavioral Sciences, National Research Council 
(1968-70). Member: President's Science Advisory Committee (1968-72); 
National Academy of Sciences (Council, 1978-81). Fellow: Econometric 
Society; American Academy of Arts and Sciences; American Psychological 
Association; American Sociological Association. Among the many awards and 
honors Dr. Simon has received is the 1978 Nobel Prize in Economics.
MARKETING
The Dynamic Interface Between Producers and Consumers
DR. ALFRED E. KUEHN
President, Management Science Association
Peter Drucker wrote: "Marketing is so basic that it cannot be considered 
a seperate function. . . it is the whole business seen from the point of view of its 
final result, that is, from the customers' point of view."
There are several tools that a business may use to successfully market its 
product or service. For one of these tools, advertising, over $20 billion was 
spent in the United States last year. We have all been exposed to marketing 
from the consumer's point of view; Dr. Kuehn will provide us with some insights 
into marketing and its importance within the firm.
Dr. Kuehn received a B.S. in Chemical Engineering from Carnegie-Mellon in
1952. In 1954 he received an M.S. and in 1958 a Ph.D. in Industrial Administra
tion at Carnegie-Mellon. Between 1954 and 1971 he served in several academic 
positions in the university's School of Industrial Administration. In 1963, Dr. 
Kuehn founded Management Science Associates, Inc. and is currently President 
of this corporation. MSA is a research management consulting firm whose main 
purpose is to apply results of basic research in marketing and marketing related 
areas. He is a consultant to approximately fifty major firms. Dr. Kuehn is also 
the co-author of three books and has authored or co-authored more than fifty 
articles all relating to marketing.
ISSUES IN
BUSINESS TODAY II
April 28, 1979
RESERVATION
DEADLINE
Thursday, April 26,1979
NAME------------------------
ADDRESS-------------------
-CLASS CODE-----------------------------------------------------------PHONE(if student) DEPARTMENT--------------------------YEARNAMES OF OTHERS IN PARTY----------------------------
If you would like to sponsor a CMU student, please add $3.00. Make checks 
payable to CMU Alumni and mail to Carnegie-Mellon University, Alumni Office, 
505 Warner Hall, 5000 Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15213.
Conference r Lunch
CMU Students $ 3.00 
All Others $10.00
no.at $10.00= .$
no.at $ 3.00 = $
Total Enclosed = $

---------------------------------------------------

43 tor Studente  l e4 1Q aJl tytPierS (tiWdiPiiluded^ N
v4-^ "'W A
CALL 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A
John Crecine, Dean of H&SS holds open
office hours Tuesday, 1:30 to 3:30 PM.
The Department of Modern Languages and
Literatures will administer proficiency tests 
in French, German, Spanish and Russian 
on Saturday, April 28, 1979 at 10:00 AM, 
in the Language Laboratory (Margaret 
Morrison 310). Any student may take one 
of these tests; there is no charge. The test 
takes 95 minutes. H&SS students who have 
to satisfy the old core curriculum require
ment in foreign languages will be exempt 
from foreign language study if they demon
strate intermediate-level proficiency by 
earning a score of 520 in French or Spanish 
or 500 in German or Russian. Students 
may also take this test in order to establish 
their level of competence in the language 
gained through self-study, study abroad, 
etc., or to determine their level of 
achievement in order to continue further 
study in that language, these tests are pri
marily designed for students who have had 
two years or more of college language in 
struction although this is not a prerequi
site for taking the test. Students wishing to 
take one of these tests should sign up in 
the Modern Languages Department office. 
Baker Hall 232-C, before Fridav. Aoril 27.
Einstein Centennial Lecture: "Einstein's
Contributions to the Theory of Quantized 
Radiation." These are the theories which 
make Iasars, photoelectric cells, x-ray 
equipment, and other wonders possible. 
The lecture will be by Dr. Matthew Garbuny of Westinghouse Research and Devel
opment Center. It will be held at 4:30 PM 
on Thursday, April 26 in 7500 Science 
Hall. All are welcome. Sponsored by the 
CMU Chapter of the Society of Physics 
Students.
The first summer session at Point Park
College, beginning Tuesday, May 29, 
includes ^uch classes as Principles of 
Economics, English Literature, United 
States History, Reporting, Accounting, 
Introduction to Philosophy, Psychology, 
Biology and Photography.
Also, Basic Electronics, Earth Sciepce,
Radio and TV Writing, Statistics, State 
and Local Government, Library Research 
Methods, Money and Banking and the 
Comtempory English and Continental 
Novel.
Registration for the first summer 
session, which runs through July 6, begins 
on Tuesday, April 17. The second summer 
session will run from July 9-August 17.
For registration information, contact 
the Office of Part-Time Studies, Point 
Park College at 391-4100, Extension 349.
-I A,-........ri) I ,i n
ZSSUES INBUS/A/ESS TODAY
BEETAEWiniEsS.CLASSIFIED ADS -------
Classified Announcements:
Deadline, Wednesday, noon. Rate - $.10 
word. Address all classifieds to TARTAN 
Business Manager.
classified
Oakland furnished one bedroom & efficien
cies. $200 - $220 + elec. Close to every
thing. 462-7319, 3 to 5 PM. After 5 PM 
362-8887.
Do you want to have an occasion catered
and don't want the same old thing? If so, 
call Mary's Kitchen  788-4685  for 
mouthwatering hot and cold delicacies 
at a reasonable price.
Wanted: Person to patch rust spots and
do other minor work on '74 Duster. Rate 
negotiable. Call x2336 or x2247.
SUMMER SUBLET: Spacious studio apart
ments. Suitable for one or two occupants. 
Furnished. Located above Geno & Pete's. 
Call Sue 681-4999.
Oakland Sublet: Furnished 4-bedroom
apartment, rent negotiable, ,683-2723 
'or 578-2511. (Chris).
TERMPAPERS: All Subjects, written to
your specifications, reasonable rates. Call 
Albert at 681-2148 or 624-4167.
Stereo Speakers for Sale; Excellent Quali
ty, Condition. Reasonable price. Ellen at 
687-0458.
Pops Concert tickets wanted for April 27.
Call Jane at x2309 or 687-4989.
Apartment For Rent Wilkins Avenue and
Wightman St. 1 to 2 Bedroom, Basement 
Apt. $65/$120. Available anytime. 687- 
7315.
^Velosex. Model 5600. Price $350. Brand
new. 521-1479.
Lost: Shepard - minature. Black muzzle,
white-black back. Newly pregnant. "Nef". 
; Please return. Reward. 578-4460 or 683- 
4,2462.
: Fast accurate typing service  $1 /page.
649-4208.-
HAPPY BIRTHDAY - 3 64- tjrunniens.
Welcome to the 'club', in more ways than"-4one!!! Love, Your Favorite (?) Uncle.
dubs
AIESEC-CMU, the International Associa
tion of Students in Economics and Manage
ment, meets every Wednesday, 4:30 PM 
in Skibo 11. The campus community is 
welcome.
The International Students Organization
meets every Wednesday in Skibo Room 17 
at 7:00 p.m. All Students Welcomed.
On Wednesday, April 25, CMU's Club
Francophone presents "Ma Nuit Chez 
Maud (My Night at Maud's) a movie by 
Eric Rohmer. Starring Jean-Louis Trintignant and Francoise Fabian. $1 with CMU 
ID. $1.50 without. 8 PM in DH 2210.
There will be a meeting of the General
Campus and Information Committee today 
at 6 PM in Skibo room 13. A use survey, to 
determine what would be needed in a stu
dent union building, will be discussed.
A.B. Films will meet Thursday, April 26
at 8:00 PM in DH 2200. We will be choos
ing the films for next semester. Everyone 
is welcome.
For those interested in anti-nuclear activi
tiesa new organization has been estab
lishedRAG, radiation awareness group. 
There will be an organizational meeting to
day at 4 PM. Included in discussion will 
be plans for a rally on May 2. Look for 
posters announcing the room number.
Holiness is not the private domain of nuns,
^jionks, and priests. Christ's command, 
''you must be made perfect as your heaven
ly Father is perfect," is meant for every
one. The Fellowship of Saint Don Bosco* 
is a group of students seeking holiness. 
Together we may be able to do what alone 
is very hard. Our meetings are every Wed
nesday, at 10:00 PM at Tech House (next 
to Donner).
Wantedmovie projectionists for A. B. and
SDC, '79-'80. Flexible hours, steady work, 
must be reliableno experience necessary. 
Contact .Sue at 563-2567 , before noon.
SCOTCH 'N SODA SCRIPT REVIEW!
Script Review is coming! Scripts for the 
1980 Spring Musical will be solicited. Book 
shows and Musical Reviews, complete 
scripts and scores preferred but idea 
sketches acceptable, Saturday, April 28,
1979. Funded by Student Senate.
The Finance Committee of Student
Senate meets Thursdays in Skibo, 
Room 13 at 7 PM. Meetings are open 
to the public.
Senate Rules Committee meets Thursdays
at 6:00 PM, Room 33, Skibo. All the pub
lic is invited.
The Communication Skills Center offers
individual instruction for students at all 
levels and in all colleges who need help 
with any aspect of writing. You can get 
tailor-made programs focused on specific
writing and thinking skills, help in pre
paring and revising assignments, help with 
research projects, applications and resumes, 
and computer-assisted instruction. Call or 
come in to make an appointment with a fa
culty member: 161 Baker Hall, x2924, 
Monday through Friday 9:00 to 4:00.
SDC OFFICE HOURS. The Students'
Dorm Council has established office hours 
in room 55, Skibo (x2114) during these 
times: Monday 3:45 to 4:45. PM, Tues
day 1:30 to 2:30, Wednesday 12:15 to 
1:15, Thursday 1:30 to 2:30, and Friday 
10:30 to 11:30 AM. Any undergraduate 
dormitory resident is invited to stop by 
or call during the above times to discuss 
(complain about?) any aspect of living 
on campus.
general
To all foreign students holding a F-1 stud
ent visa: If you plan to go home over the 
Summer, remember that you need an I-20 
form in order to get back into the United 
States this Fall. Call Mrs. Stockton at 
x2055 or stop in Warner Hall 611 if you 
want an I-20 for this purpose.
PEER HELP is students trained to listen
and help you make your own decisions. 
For counseling, campus information, tu
toring, health and law referrals, emergency 
loans, or just someone to talk to, stop by 
the Center, Baker Hall 150-A, or phone, 
621-9900. Hours: Weekdays10:30 to 
5:30; Sundays to Thursdays7:30 to 
11:30. Fridays and Saturdays7:30 to 
12:30.
This invitation is VALID for a FREE
SUMPTUOUS VEGETARIAN DINNER 
(worth $5.50). Every Monday thru Satur
day at 6 PM at the International Society 
for Krishna Consciousness, 4626 Forbes 
Ave. (next to Beto's Pizza). Tel.: (412) 
683-7700
H&SS Students: The H&SS College
Student Advisory committee (SAC) meets 
every Thursday in the H&SS college lounge 
(BH 254-C). It provides a means of student 
input into decisions made by the college. 
If you want a voice in your future and 
your college's future, come to the next 
meeting.
Announcing a nutrition course (6 weeks)
April 24 thru May 29, Tuesdays 12:00 to 
1:00 PM. Sponsored by the Association of 
Professional Office Women in Education. 
Fee: $20 per person. If interested, please 
register before Friday April 20 at the Gym 
room 104.

---------------------------------------------------

upcoming events
a.b...
AB Presents on April 26:
Mr. Klein
at 6,8:30 and 11PM
Alain Delain gives an excellent perform
ance of the title role in this intelligent mys
tery drama about an egocentric, emoral 
man in 1942 France whose life changes 
when he is mistaken for another Mr. Klein 
who is Jewish. Initially he is curious, but 
he becomes obsessed with finding the Jew
ish Klein and their identities are inextri
cably linked.
The movie will be shown in DH2210. 
Admission is .75 with ID/$1 without.
AB Presents on April 27:
A Wedding
at 6, 8, 10 and 12 PM
Robert Altman's newest film. Two 
upper-class families get together for the 
most bizarre wedding youll ever see. The 
cast includes Desi Arnez, Jr., Mia Farrow, 
and Carol Burnett.
The movie will be shown in DH2210. 
Admission is $1 with ID/$1.25 without
A.B. Coffeehouse Committee presents 
Gilberto Gil on Friday, April 27 in the 
Skibo Courtyard, at 9:30 PM. Gil, a re
nounced Brazilian musician is currently 
marking his first American tour. Gil's 
music is called tropicallia a combination 
of jazz & reggae. Backed by a five man 
band, he will play many of the songs on 
his 1st American album "Nightingale 
which can be heard on WRCT. This event 
is free and open to the public. In case of 
inclement weather the Wherrett Room will 
_be used.
A.B. Lectures is sponsoring Ms. Ellie 
Smeal, the current president of N.O.W. 
(National Organization of Women) on 
Tuesday, May 1, 1979, in the Skibo Ball
room, at 8 PM. This lecture is free and 
open to the campus community.
theater...
CMUs Drama Department will present 
William Shakespeare's The Winter's Tale 
Thursday, April 19 through Saturday, Ap
ril 28, Kresge Theatre, College of Fine 
Arts. Tickets are available at the CFA box 
office, Monday through Friday, between 
the hours of 10 AM and 5 PM. Free with 
CMU ID.
The Pittsburgh Playhouse will present 
Thornton Wilders Our Town from April 
19 thru April 29. Performances are Thurs
days thru Saturdays at the Hamlet Street 
Theatre. For more information call 621- 
4445.
Pittsburgh Laboratory Theatre will pre
sent Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are 
Dead from March23 thru April 28. Curtain 
times are Thursdays and Sundays at 8 PM 
and Fridays and Saturdays at 8:30 PM. For 
reservations call 621-2876.
Theatre Express will present Hotel for 
Criminals on April 26-29, and May 3-6. 
Performances are Thursdays, Fridays and 
Saturdays at 8:30 PM and Sundays at 2 
PM. For reservations call 621-5454.
The Playhouse Junior will present Han
sel and Gretel at the Hamlet Street Theatre 
from April 28. Performance times are 11 
AM and 2:30 PM on Saturdays and 2:30 
PM on Sundays. For more information call 
621-4445.
The City Theatre Company will present 
Table Manners, a comedy by Alan Acykbourn, thru April 28. Performances are 
Wednesday thru Saturday at 8 PM, and 
Sunday at 3 PM. For reservations call 231- 
3572.
May 4-6 the City Theatre Company will 
present James Rosenburg's Gladys, a play 
based on the sonnets of late writer and 
CMU professor, Gladys Schmidt. For more 
information or reservations, call 231-3752.
Pittsburgh Public Theatre will present 
For Colored Girls Who Have Considered 
Suicide/When the Rainbow is Enuf, from 
March 14 thru May 6. Seats may be reserv
ed at the Public Box Office, 323-1900.
music...
Legendary pianist Vladimir Horowiti 
will appear in Pittsburgh for the first time 
in three years. The virtuoso will perform in 
recital at Heinz Hall on Sunday, October 
14 at 4 PM. Four free concerts will be 
given by the Pittsburgh Youth Symphony 
Orchestra and its Chamber Orchestra at 
the Winchester-Thurton School in its First 
Gala Festival of the Twentieth Century 
Music on May 6th and 20th at 2:30 PM, 
and May 13 and 27 at 7:30 PM.
Rod Steward will appear at the Civic 
Arena on May 29. Tickets are available at 
National Record Marts and the Arena box 
office. Punk-funk artist Rick James will be 
at the Stanley Theater on May 5 at 8 PM. 
Cheap Trick will appear at the Stanley on 
May 6 at 8 PM. Tickets for both shows are 
available at the Stanley box office or Na
tional Record Marts.
The New Barbarians will appear at the 
Civic Arena on May 2 at 8 PM. The group's 
members are Keith Richard, Ron Wood, 
Ian McLagan, Stanley Clarke and friends'.
cinema...
art...
Four Artists-Four Shows," a series of 
one week exhibits by Camegie-Mellon Un
iversity graduate art students, will be on 
display at CMUs Hewlett Gallery begin-, 
ning April 16. All shows and previews are 
free and open to the public. The Hewlett 
Gallery is located on the first floor of 
CMUs College of Fine Arts. Gallery 
hours are 10 AM to 4 PM, Monday through 
Saturday. For further information call 
Cynthia Ference, 578-2410.
"Silver in American Life: Selections 
from the Mabel Brady Garvan and other 
collections at Yale University, will pre
miere at the Museum of Art, Carnegie In
stitute in Pittsburgh on April 26. For ad
ditional information concerning tours and 
reservations contact Mrs. Janet Schwab, 
622-3286.
Selected woodblock prints by Skiko 
Munakata will be on display in the Museum 
of Art, Carnegie Institute now through 
April 29, featuring his collection, Ten 
Great Disciples. The Museum of Art is 
open Tuesdays through Saturdays from 
10:00 AM to 5:00 PM and Sundays from 
1:00 to 6:00 PM.
Please Touch is the title for the oneman-show of sculpture to be held at Pitts
burgh Blind Association, from now until 
April 30. The public is invited to view the 
exhibit in the Associations recreation 
room from 8:30 AM until 5 PM. The ex
hibit is the work of Stewart Suna, a stu
dent in sculpture and architecture at CMU.
Photographs from the permanent collec
tion will be exhibited in the Ground Floor 
Corridor from February 8 thru May 3. 
Gallery times are Tuesdays thru Saturdays 
10 AM to 5 PM and Sundays from 1 to 6 
PM.
thru Saturdays from 10 AM to 5 PM and 
Sundays from 1 to 6 PM.
The Museum of Art, Carnegie Institute 
will exhibit twentieth Century French 
Prints in Gallery 10 from February 15 
through June 10. It will include prints by 
Jaques Villon, Henri Matisse, Georges 
Braque, Fernand Leger, Pierre Soulages and 
Georges Rouault. Museum hours are Tues
day thru Saturdays 10 AM to 5 PM and 
Sundays from 1 to 6 PM.
An unusual blend of botanical speci
mens and natural forms combined with 
printing techniques led to the creation of 
Robert Litties exhibition titled Nature 
Printing. These art works will be on dis
play in the Changing Exhibits Gallery of 
Carnegie Museum of Natural History, Car
negie Institute from now until June 10. 
The exhibition is comprised of 47 nature 
prints, many of which are available for sale. 
For more information contact Leda Hanin 
at 622-3328.etc...
The American Dance Ensemble will pre
sent the ballet works of Rod McKuen in 
five performances at the Pittsburgh Play
house on May 3, 4, and 5 at 8 PM and on 
May 5 and 6 at 2:30 PM. Mr. McKuen will 
make a personal appearance on May 3. 
Tickets are available at the Playhouse box 
office or by calling 621-4445.
China Trade Porcelain from the collec
tion of Mrs. James M. Schoonmaker, Jr. 
will be displayed in the Treasure Room 
thru May 13. Gallery times are Tuesdays
SDC Presents on April 28:
Rollerball
at 6, 8, 10, and 12 PM
In the not too distant future their will 
not be anymore war, but there will be 
Rollerball.'' In this sci-fi thriller James 
Caan plays a sports hero of the game = =
Rollerball. The movie is entwined with = 
political overtones.
The movie will be shown in DH2210.
Admission is .50 with ID/$1 without.
SPRING WEEKEND MARDI GRAS 
EVENTS AT CHATHAM COLLEGE
Saturday, April 28
1:30 & 3:45 PM DIXIELAND BAND
PERFORMANCE
3 PM LOVELACE MARIO
NETTE THEATER 
Ragtime & All That 
Jazz, a marionette 
musical.
5 PM MARDI GRAS
PARADE
5 to 6:30 PM CREOLE DINNER ail
for meal prices.
9:30 PM MARDI GRAS BALL
and CASINO GAMES 
Call for ticket prices.
10:15 PM FIREWORKS
Call Chatham College, 441-8200, ext.
239 for details and Sundays events._____
COLLEGE NOT WORKING? CONSIDER AN ALTERNATIVE.
CMUs Club Francophone presents Eric 
Rohmers My Night at Maud's, starring 
Jean-Louis Trintigant and Franoise Fab
ian. Wednesday at 8:00 PM in DH2210. 
$1 with CMU ID, $1.50 without. Funded 
by Activities Fee.
The Lonely Wife by Satyajit Ray will be 
the next film in the Directors Series. It will 
be shown on April 26 at 8 PM in the 
Carnegie I ecture Hall. Admission is $1.
This week's movies in the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse Film Festival are: April 24, 
Corvette Summer-, April 25, Umberto D; 
April 26, A Different Story; April 27, 
The Producers; April 28, Last Tango In 
Paris; April 29, Footlight Parade; and 
April 30, Dersu Uzala. All seats are $2 
with two showings nightly at 7:30 and 
9:30 PM.
jajon and the Argonauts will be shown I 
April 28 at 2:30 PM in the Museum of Art  
Theatre. Admission is $1. . 5
PITTSBURGH TECHNICAL INSTITUTE
In its fourth decade of 
quality education - with a 
placement record to back it up!
Open a world of professional opportunities 
with an Associate iri Specialized Technology Degree.
- Accelerated 16 to 18 month programs 
Industrial Engineering Technology 
Industrial Drafting & Design Technology 
Architectural Drafting & Design Technology 
Continuing Education night courses in drafting and 
. related career courses.
Approved for all Federal and State grants,
Accredited by National Association of Trade &
Technical Schools 
Licensed by Pa Board of Private Trade 
& Technical Schools
471-0985
mi
Clark Bldg. 717 Liberty Ave. Pgh., Pa. 15222
NAME
ADDRESS
CITY___
PHONE _
STATEZIP
liiimminimnniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiniiiHiiiiniiuniiiwiniiiiiiiiiiiniiiimimiiiiniiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiinmimmmiiiiiiiwiiiiiiiiiiiiiuitr
