li\l\l/\l
rT,4 TVT^A 1VTOctober 16,1979 I I Carnegie-Mellon University
Volume 80. Number 6 H I ^^1 Pittsburqh. PA 15213
Fonda-Hayden applauded
Alumni parade back to CMU
This past weekend, CMU went Mad for 
Plaid in the second year of revived home
coming traditions. Despite cold and rain, 
Homecoming 79 was a success.
The rain Friday evening forced the 
opening ceremonies to be cancelled, but a 
sunny Saturday morning began with the 
annual ox roast and the Highlander Games, 
which were rescheduled from Friday.
The Parade of Classes, which included 
alumni, the Homecoming court, a color 
guard, antique cars, floats and the band, 
marched down Forbes Avenue and into 
Tech Stadium for the start of the football 
game against the Washington and Jefferson 
Presidents.
While the Tartans rested in the locker 
room during half-time, Molly McCloskey, 
a senior in Musical Theater, was named
Miss Varsity. Her sorority big sister 
last years Homecoming Queen. Members 
of the court were Marcia Brent and Nancy 
McLean, with Princes Mory Brenner and 
Mark Andrews.
The football team returned to finish off 
W and J by a score of 32-7 in 
television broadcast of a Tartan game, over 
WIIC, channel 11 in Pittsburgh, and WHIO, 
channel 7 in Stubenville, Ohio.
Students headed to the Skibo ballroom 
on Saturday evening for the Student Dorm 
Councils semi-formal homecoming dance, 
while alumni finished off the weekend with 
a dinner at the William Penn Hotel.
A concert in the gym by Blood, Sweat, 
and Tears on Sunday evening concluded 
Homecoming 79.
by Jean Pellegrini and Mark Kennet
Jane Fonda and Tom Hayden spoke to a 
receptive CMU audience for ninety minutes 
on Monday afternoon, October S. in the 
Skibo Ballroom. The lecture was co-sponsored by Activities Board and the Cam
paign for Economic Democracy (CED) . 
Although the focal point of the FondaHayden lecture was their argument against 
nuclear power, other ideas were discussed; 
these included the broader issues of energy 
usage, corporate responsibility, and social 
choice.
Hayden opened the presentation, stating 
the husband/wife teams purpose for their 
across-country tour: We feel there are 
several issues that heve got to be put on the 
agenda before the 1980 election. Compa
ring the issues of the 1960s to todays 
issues, he added,...we had simple moral 
issues, like whether or not one group was 
equal with another, or whether we should 
be in Vietnam or not be in Vietnam. Now, 
the questions involve energy, inflation, 
economics, corporate power, pollution. 
continued on page 23
Omega sisters displayed their Mad for Plaid" Homecoming spirit while sitting on 
the Pi Kappa Alpha fire truck-float.
'Truth Squad7 follows Fonda
by Doug Kirsop solar energy is here now is deceiving-its
Fifteen minutes after Jane Fonda and just too expensive and too difficult to
Tom Hayden finished their lecture, Linn
Draper and Sandra Keifer spoke to an obtain, he pointed out. Another fact he
audience one tenth the size of the earlier said Hayden neglected is the high toxicity
one. of the substances necessary to build semiDraper, a former utility executive, and conductors, a vital component of the solar
most recently a professor of nuclear power transformation process,
engineering at the University of Texas, Draper also accused Hayden and his
began the lecture. He first explained their wife of neglecting the dangers of other
self-given title, Truth Squad. He current energy sources. They both say
said, It is important to be fully informed that nuclear plants are unnecessary risks,
on the issues; citizens need to hear both he said. What we dont hear about or
sides. We believe that Fonda and Hayden pay attention to is the 150 coal miners
said a number of things that are misleading who will be killed in mining accidents this
to the public. year or the people who will be killed an
Thirteen percent of our electrical who will have their property washed away
energy comes from nuclear generating when a dam breaks. No matter
plants, began Draper. He said that at this they are, we seem to be willing to accept
point in time, we just cant get along the risks of any energy
by displacing nuclear power with solar nuclear, he stated. We need to evaluate
power and conservation. Nuclear power nuclear power in the same way that we
is not a panacea, but it is too important to evaluate all of the energy sources,
disregard. concluded.
He continued by saying that neither Keifer, a CMU alumnus with a masters
Fonda nor Hayden had considered any of 'in nuclear engineering, began by saying
the problems with alternate energy sources, I have a real problem with some of
especially solar power. To state that continued on page 15
Joseph resigns cabinet post
Jane Fonda and Tom Hayden
by Doug Kirsop
On Thursday, October 11, the resig
nation of Myron L. Joseph, Pennsylvania 
Secretary of Labor and Industry, was an
nounced.
Before traveling to Harrisburg, Joseph 
had been a professor here for over thirty 
years. His resignation is effective November 
1, and he plans to resume teaching at the 
Graduate School of Industrial Administra
tion (GSIA) by next semester at the latest. 
Although housing arrangements will keep
him and his family in
November 1, he said that he hopes to 
return to the university in one way or 
another much sooner than that.
Josephs resignation came at the same 
time as the resignation of Health Secretary 
Gordon MacLeod. Some speculation has 
been raised as to a possible shakeup of 
governor Thornburghs cabinet. Admin
istration spokesman Paul Critchlow 
responded to these ideas by stating, I 
can say at this time that there are no fur
ther resignations planned or contemcontinued on page 22
Sandra Keifer and Linn Draper

---------------------------------------------------

rwi l nrr A IV T vo(ume80
I /V le I /V Number61/1111/11 1 October 16,1i
Editor-in-Chief: Jean Pellegrini 
Managing Editors: Neil Adler
Brian Byrnes 
Business Manager: Karen Stevens 
Production Manager: Michael Brzustowicz
News Editor: Doug Kirsop Associate Editor: Mory Brenner
Features Editor: Lynn Epstein " Magazine Editor: Susan Borg
Entertainment Editor: Alan Spero Photography Editor: Robert Zusman
Sports Editor: Perry Colosimo Art Director: Tom Megatb
News: Beth Arden, Asst. Editor; Luis Ball, Beth Bangor, Tim Bardwell, Jim Bast, Dave Boyce, Sue Brillman, Jeanette 
Bryan, Anne Cesnick, Stan Cieslak, Linda Dickerson, Carol Dietrich. Ed Frankenbery, Chris Gebhardt. Andre Jenkins. 
Neva Jones. Paul Karmin, Mark Kennett, Pete Levin, Chris Magyai, Donald Mawson, Kwasi Mensah, Deb Morgas, Debbie 
Nir, Elliot Ohlberg, Judy Ohlin, Andy Ragan, Dena Santoro, Sheryl Sazim, Scott Schaffer, Andy Sicree, Molly Silver. 
Ben Smith, David Seet, Vernon Valentine, Lisa Vaughan, Jane Weisbacher, Sue Wilkin, Elsie Voder, Eddy Zayas.
Features: Jeanne Abmayr. Lisa Andruzzi, Luis Ball, Beth Bangor, Valerie Brandt. Art Benjamin. Michael Conroy. Chris 
Gebhart, Bob Gleason. Neva Jones, Paul Karmin, Kathy Krummert, David Land, Kwasi Mensah, David Mills, Sheryl 
Sazima, Stu Seidman.
Entertainment : Kate Bertrand,theater editor;: Ed Slosky,events editor; Scott Alburger, Bob Henry, Dave Kirby, Paul L. 
Kravits, Cheryl Goodman. Joan Livitski, Paul Mendler, Gretchen Miller, Aline Naters, Debbie Nir, Scott Schaffer, Ted 
Smits, Vernon Valentine.
Sports: Dave Wills, assistant editor; Fran Arsht, Ronnie Ben-Avon, Dave Brandwene, Pat Crump, Bernie Ivanshultz, 
Frank Pugliano, Dave Radack, Scott Schatter.Bob Share,Thomas Smith, Lesley Weiser, Craig Woolheater.
Production. Suzanne Chan, Ken Kulak, George Lyons, Janet Martin. Gretchen Miller,Smita Pai,Nancy Richman.Anne 
Rogers, Ken Salem, Lynn Sokol, Ed Zayas.
Photography: Chuck Chidekel, Larry Duffy, Andy Edelman, Jenny Ladd, Marcy Lubitz, Michael Melnick, Skip Stong.
Art -Tom Hart, assistant director; Robert Conroy, Andy Epstein, Tina Klem, C.C. Otto.
Copyright 1979 by the Carnegie-Mellon University Tartan. All rights reserved. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit or withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Government of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; (412) 578-2111 or 2112. 
24-hour answering service 2113. Business Offices: Skibo 52; (412) 578-2111. Printed by Artcrafts Unlimited, Pittsburgh, PA 15206. '
Jean Pellegrini 
Editor-in-Chief
Tartans on TV
Congratulations Tartans! The TARTAN toasts your fine 
performances both on the field and on the screen. Your 
debut on WIIC-TV, Channel 11, was truly a thrill for all the 
viewers as the CMU community was proud to show off its 
winning football tradition.
The TARTAN encourages the campus community to 
support the Tartans down the home stretch.
Perry Colosimo 
Sports Editor
Have a relaxing October Break and look for the next issue 
of the TARTAN in two weeks!
TARTAN
Meet the press?
The TARTAN asked Tom Hayden and Jane Fonda if 
they would answer one question for the CMU newspaper. 
Fonda answered, No.  Repeated attempts to reach their 
tour coordinator resulted in no response from him.
If they believe that what they have to say is vital and 
necessary, why dont they use all the resources available to 
them to spread their message?
As Hayden put it, We have a very, very simple dream, a 
very, very simple hopeto gradually create a constituency 
that is organized that goes across state lines and becomes 
powerful enough so that politicians will pay attention to 
us.  If part of their dream and hope is to become any
thing near the magnitude of the sixties "revolution , they 
will have to realize that the student press was at the heart 
of the activist movement. Their desire to create a debate  
particularly on the college campuses seems futile without 
the inclusion of the student press.
Maybe they arent completely informed about the facts 
and events used to support their arguments. Is that why the 
TARTAN reporters were so obviously avoided during the 
question/answer period of their lecture? The sight of 
newspaper dippings and assorted information on nuclear 
energy might have scared Ms. Fonda from entertaining one 
of our questions.
Or maybe they didnt want to be asked about the contra
dictory statements they made. For example, during part of 
the lecture, Hayden said that the nations must turn to 
people, not experts alone to solve the energy problem. 
Then later on, he criticized the U.S. government because the 
Department of Energy is presently not being run by an 
expert.
Fonda didnt seem to be thinking clearly when she 
answered one students question after the lecture. He asked 
what the students here could do to disseminate Fondas and 
Haydens message. Fonda responded by listing several 
books that she believed would be worthwhile reading in 
order to become more familiar with the cutting edge 
issues for the 1980's.  We wonder if she even thought 
about the campus communication organizations as a means 
for students to "create debate on these issues. We agree 
that being informed on the issues is essential before one can 
debate them. But what about the press as an information 
provider? What about the press as a source which presents 
both sides of the issue? Is it right that people see only their 
side of the issues?
Fonda should have taken a little bit of her own advice. If 
she was more informed about the CMU audience to which 
she was speaking, or the type of university at which she was 
lecturing, she might not have been so surprised to find out 
that this university educates nuclear engineers. And if she 
knew that a majority of CMU students are on financial aid, 
she wouldnt have begun her address by saying "there 
are class reasons and economic reasons why we wouldnt 
understand the seriousness of her lecture. Her misconcep
tion, almost from the start, had us labeled as upper class 
capitalists.
Are we really ready to consider Jane Fondas and Tom 
Haydens ideas on nuclear energy and economic demo
cracy" if they arent ready to openly face the student press?
IgnoranceEditor:
Last weeks editorial comment, 
Thinking About Rush*, makes 
me wonder how a group of intelli
gent people, such as the TARTAN 
Editorial Board, could display 
such a fundamental ignorance of 
the Greek system at CMU. The ed
itorial indulges in unfounded mud 
slinging; referring to Greeks as he
donistic juveniles is absurd. I
would therefore like to take this 
opportunity to give the TARTAN 
readers an understanding of the 
Greeks that the Editorial Board 
does not seem to be able to pro
vide.
The individual is the founda
tion of the Greek system. His indi
viduality is absolutely vital to its 
survival. A Greek has specialized 
talents, new ideas, and a need to 
achieve socially, academically, and
creatively. These qualities are not 
magical or ethereal, bestowed 
only on a chosen few. Each per
son is gifted with special qualities 
which are needed to build and 
keep a strong fraternity. A fra
ternity full of carbon copy clones 
would not last two years on this 
campus.
The fraternity serves to coordi
nate the time, talents, and finan
cial resources of its members to

---------------------------------------------------

Robert Harris vites about the 
Fonda-Hayden lecture and the 
passive acceptance of the CMU 
audience in his opinion.
I went to the Fonda-Hayden 
lecture October 8 with the express 
purpose to hear a coherent, intel
ligent argument against nuclear 
power. I was disappointed .In
stead I was irradiated by plati
tudes, misrepresentations, in
expedient linkages and verbiage 
spewing from the podium.
Before Ms. Fonda bothered to 
rev-up the motor of her affected 
argument, she told me from the 
podium that because of the fact 
that I can afford to go to this 
school, I am not affected by, nor 
am I likely to care about what 
goes~on in the world today. If I 
wasnt affected by what goes on 
in the world today and I didnt 
care, I wouldnt have gone to hear 
what she had to say.
Ms. Fonda is an extremely ca
pable speaker and actress. She 
pointed out emotionally every 
corporation-related disaster and 
possible hazard that time allowed. 
I was surprised that the Triangle
Shirtwaist Company fire of 1911 
wasnt mentioned. The emphasis 
on the Love Canal disaster is un
derstandable, but in no way is the 
response of Hooker Chemical Co. 
representative of the vast majority 
of corporations, which are made 
up of responsible individuals.
The linkages between My Lai 
and todays Energy Commission 
via the Johnson administration are 
not only ludicrous, they are irrele
vant to the energy crisis and what 
is wrong with nuclear power. The 
linkage between the affected 
arguement of the Utah nuclear 
weapons blasts of the 1950s and 
electrical power generation by 
nuclear energy in the 1970s and 
1980s shows complete irrespon
sibility on Fondas part.
If I want to hear an intelligent 
argument 'against nuclear power I 
guess I will have to wait until I 
can hear Barry Commoner. When 
I read what Dr. Commoner has to 
offer on the subject I shook my 
head.
I was also exposed to the Cam
paign for Economic Democracy 
(CED). I have always considered
Ms. For.da and Mr. Hayden total
ly honest people. I wish theyd be 
totally honest and say what CED 
really suggests. It suggests one 
thing: Socialism. I dont particu
larly care whether Hayden and 
Fonda have an aversion to the 
word. I just wish theyd be honest 
about it.
The primary objection I have 
to the State having a direct say 
under CED in the corporation is 
that it will create the huge bureau
cracy at the state level that is cur
rently stagnating the Federal 
government. What will result is a 
stagnation of the corporation in 
the wake of state bureaucracy. 
The only thing I can conclude is 
that if it happens, Ms. Fonda will 
have another institution to fight 
against.
Mr. Hayden and Ms. Fonda pin 
all their hopes of the future on 
the photovoltaic cell. I asked my
self why they never mentioned 
fusion? The answer is quite sim
ple. They have a political aversion 
to any centralized power source. 
Because of their political aversion, 
the United States should forego a
clean, efficient, and potentially 
unlimited power source.
I was particularly saddened by 
the passive acceptance of the 
CMU audience. In the forty-five 
minutes alloted to questions no 
one asked a skeptical or challeng
ing question to their platform. 
People like good little toads, to 
use a Hayden euphemism, read 
staterr nts and asked them ques
tions t. v wanted to hear. I had a 
simple question, but was never 
called on. All I wanted to know 
was if Hayden knows a cheap and 
simple way to get more sunshine 
onto a photovoltaic cell. Until he 
or some CMU engineer, to whom 
Hayden and Fonda showed com
plete disdain, accomplish this, nu
clear power will remain consi
derably cheaper than solar power 
in our lifetime.
I was also saddened that the 
CMU audience did not have 
enough tolerance and intelligence 
to hear +he other side of the story. 
Sandra Keifer and Dr. Drapers 
program was sparsely attended.
Apparently the CMU audience 
wanted to be spellbound by ui. n 
responsible arguement rather than 
to have a chance to disagree with 
a responsible argument.
I was deeply saddened when 
Tom Hayden presented his CED 
pamphlet and said that the CMU 
administration said he couldnt 
distribute his information because 
the administration didnt sub
scribe to it. If this is true, then I 
question the judgement of the ad
ministration.
Hayden skillfully used this cen
sorship to his advantage by asking 
us whether we wanted to be 
good little toads of the adminis
tration and not take his pam
phlet. Obviously the censorship 
attempt put a premium on the 
pamphlets and everyone took one.
If what Hayden said is true, 
then I have to say that under no 
circumstances did I, or do I waive 
my right to decide what I can 
read.
If what Hayden said is not 
true, then I would like you pub
licly to say so.
views
Jeffrey Zaslow, former TARTAN 
editor, writes about Homecoming.
We spoke about his present and 
his past, ignoring the fifty years in 
between. Gray-haired and wrinkl
ed, with a scratchy throat and an 
old blue suit, he was back on 
campus for his 50th reunion.
He graduated from CMU in 
1929 with a degree in Printing 
Management and got a job as an 
advertising executive. Now hes 
retired and his friends are dying.
He was a sarcastic old man, 
spitting out his sentences one 
at a time. During the pauses, he 
let the ashes from his cigar flutter 
down onto his blue suit. He never 
wiped them away.
He had snubbed the Alumni 
Banquet at the William Penn, de
ciding instead to hang out with 
the kids at his old fraternity. 
He was a walking dinosaur at the 
fraternity - a relic. He knew it, 
too, and in his own fiesty way,
took advantage of jt.
He was a hell of a college man, 
he told the crowd of youngsters 
around Tiim. And he gave statis
tics. He played on the only CMU 
team to ever beat Notre Dame 
(the game the Alumni Office brags 
about). He was a good student, 
pulled fraternity pranks, chased 
girls, drank beer and cursed his 
professors.
But the next person who tells 
me to have a good day is going to 
get a punch right in the goddamn
ed mouth, he said, and paused. 
Right in the goddamned mouth. 
This morning, this guy told me to 
have a good day. What a cliche! A 
few minutes later, I met a friend, 
an old friend, a good friend. He 
told me his wife died last month.
There were 35 people on cam
pus from the class of 29. Not 
many more than that remain.
I knew two out of the 35, he 
told me. A couple of others 
came up and said they knew me,
but I dont think they did. They 
just acted like they knew me. I 
knew a lot of printing manage
ment people, but too many of 
them are dead.
I wanted to change the subject. 
I asked him to tell me more about 
the CMU football squad that beat 
Notre Dame.
Ill tell you about it, he 
snapped back, jumping from the 
past to the present before I could 
stop him. I called the captain of 
the team as soon as I got into 
town. He still lives here in Pitts
burgh. You know what he said to 
me? He said that he has the Big C. 
He tells me he only has a few 
months to live. He said cancer is 
eating his insides out.-Hes got it, 
and hes got it bad.
Only the past and the present 
with no in between. As if his 
college days were his life and now 
his only function is to be an eye
witness to deaths.
Have a good day, that guy 
told me, he said, and just shook 
his head. More ashes fell onto his 
coat. Thats a jinx. That damn 
cliche is a jinx.
I left him and he winked at me, 
as if he knew something that I 
didnt.
But I know.
Sunday morning, I read an 
article on the front page of the 
Pittsburgh Press about a 19 yearold girl who will be dead within a 
few months unless she has a heart 
transplant. So shes going to go 
out to Stanford University Hospi
tal in California to work as a 
nurses aide until a suitable heart 
is available. She might die before 
the right heart comes through. 
She might die even if the opera
tion is successful.
Chances are, shell never reach 
the in between years, let alone 
the years when have a good day 
will annoy her.
Ive been thinking about how
vulnerable those two people arethe old man whose friends are 
dying and the young lady who 
needs a new heart.
But were just as vulnerable, 
even though we see ourselves as 
intelligent students with the 
whole world ahead of us.
So if were fortunate enough to 
stay healthy and happy, weve got 
to live and enjoy the in between 
times -- the years between grad
uation and old age. Because the 
college days of our present will 
quickly become the 50th reunions 
of our future.
I dont want to come back on 
campus in 50 years to mourn the 
fact that all my college friends are 
dead and dying. And I dont want 
to waste time questioning when 
my inevitable time will come.
I want to live, love and enjoy 
every moment I can. And when
ever someone tells me to have a 
good day, I think Ill answer, 
Thank you. Ill try my best.
fulfill the wants and needs of its 
individuals. What other type of 
campus organization could com
pete strongly in Rush, Greek Sing, 
Booth, and Buggy during the 
school year? All of these activities 
require great efforts. Hedonists 
would not practice hours on end 
for Greek Sing nor would they 
get up early every morning to 
make a Buggy push team, let alone a buggy.
The Greek system is represent
ed on this campus by the United 
Fraternal Organization and its 
two subdivisions, the Council of 
Fraternity Presidents and the Panhellenic League. These orgainzations are confederations of frater
nities and sororities. Though 
many decisions are reached by 
these confederations, each frater
nity competes with the others in 
all events.
I encourage fraternities to use
their resources and creativity to 
compete as energetically as possi
ble. From what I have seen of 
Rush competition, I deem it 
staunch, but well within reason. 
SAE did not need an explosion to 
draw new members and people to 
its social event, as Dantes Infer
no is the social highlight of the 
rush season. The explosion was 
caused by human error, and was 
not a product of the spirit of com
petition.
Donald R. Hencke 
President
Council of Fraternity Presidents 
Disgusted
Editor:
I was quite disgusted to see 
that the administration of this 
university decided to prohibit 
Jane Fonda and Tom Hayden 
from distributing the newspaper 
of the Campaign for Economic
Democracy at their recent CMU 
appearance. What sort of freedom 
of thought prevails at an institu
tion where the free access to 
information, no matter how par
tisan its presentation, is denied? 
And what sort of education can a 
university hope to provide if it 
denies the students the right to
think freely and evaluate for 
themselves the varying points of 
view on issues of public impor
tance?
I suppose that the best thing 
that can be said for this outra
geous behavior of the adminis
tration is that it reveals, with great 
clarity, the understanding that 
such small-minded individual have 
about the reason for the existence 
of institutions of higher learning. 
To them education is merely an 
advanced form of skills-training, 
no different from training in a
craft except in the nature of the 
subject matter. Students are evi
dently to be prepared to fill slots 
in society where their skills are 
needed, and they are certainly not 
supposed to ask questions.
Any notion that a university is 
supposed to develop the ability of 
the students to think for them
selves, independently, is evidently 
dangerous and to be feared. That 
human beings should think cre
atively, should act creatively, 
should have any other existence 
than that of a finely-lathed and 
well-oiled part in a machine, is
anathema to them. I deeply hope 
that students here do not accept 
this image in which these petty
individuals would mold them, and 
that they never agian allow any
one to attempt to deprive them of 
their right to choose freely to ac
cept or reject any information or
any propaganda directed at them
Daniel Mark Rosenblun 
SUP>
It's Simple
Editor:
Ive heard a lot of discussion 
and debate over the lecture given 
by Tom Hayden and Jane Fonda. 
I also know this campus will for
get much of what was said or 
lose sight of what was said be
cause of personal opinion regar
ding the Haydens. I thought theii 
central message was clear and 
undebatable. It doesnt matter if 
you are an activist, an actress, or 
the president of Hooker Chemical; 
you should have a set of values 
and bring them into your career. 
Its that simple.
Tom Bimey 
Sophomore-H&SS

---------------------------------------------------

Fonda-H yep luHA
mirbc ffelb O*
mktHbHC .^-H
i\/rT,4 ACMMULUEf^
Tctofe of iVwei&iTf 
YWUi Ocrc&SR \(j> 5PM
CALL hi, OM TV^e -MR.,
TO D*% vorm \4V ^A1,\wwnIv
Vau-'Di me hsdIor Tgcd hsdIodr
Cb cpM&fcfVL_.
&2~V/RCT ofc
# fuJoeo r *crwme* Fee
5

---------------------------------------------------

Complaints
Editor:
This letter is in response to the 
complaints of David Cunnius 
regarding the $.50 admission 
charged for the Fonda-Hayden 
lecture.
The fee was charged by the Ac
tivities Board Lectures and Special 
Events Committee. The funds 
raised will be spent on future 
programs. There is no doubt, 
however, that charging admission 
to such an activity is regrettable. 
Unfortunately, it has become ne
cessary.
AB Lectures is funded (as are 
all AB functions) by the manda
tory student activities fee tacked 
on to our tuition. Student Senate, 
through some unknown process, 
allocates these funds to the vari
ous clubs and organizations: Lec
tures, Concerts, the Explorers 
Club, WRCT, Films, etc. Recent
ly, Senate has cut the budget of 
Lectures and Special Events. In
flation has hit everywhere, includ
ing the speakers circuit. Agents or 
media companies often extract an 
undisclosed portion of the monies 
paid for the lecture or event. 
Thus, in order to provide interest
ing, high quality events, it has be
come necessary to charge admis
sion.
In conclusion, I offer an obser
vation and an invitation. It is sur
prising how little the average 
student knows about the alloca
tion of the activities fee. We (stu
dents) are all unwittingly support
ing various groups through the ef
forts (admirable, of course!) of 
the Activities Board and other 
funded groups. Participation in
the selection and implementation 
of student events is open to all of 
us. If you are dissatisfied with 
how your money is being spent, 
do something about it. The 
panacea of vacuousness, the Skibo 
Information Desk, will help 
direct your efforts.
Kenneth Cohn 
AB Lectures Committee
Peddling Porn
Editor:
Showing the movies Misty 
Beethoven and The Cheerlead
ers back to back probably was a 
bit too much. But if the students 
who criticized these movies in last 
weeks TARTAN would look at 
the film schedule for the entire 
semester, they would realize that 
the Activities Board (AB) doesnt 
peddle pornography. Rather, we 
attempt to appeal to every group 
on campus with films such as 
Pinocchio, Jaws, Grease, 
and The Cheerleaders.
Sue Angebranndt 
AB Friday Night Film Chairman 
Store Fronts
Editor:
As a concerned student, I 
would like to make a suggestion 
for a possible use for on of the 
storefronts under the new dorms.
We could let Food Service 
move their offices from Skibo to 
these storefronts.
We could then let student or
ganizations move their offices into 
Skibo. This would have the effect
of changing Skibo from a CMU 
Food Service building to a 
Student Union
Michael Michaels
Greeks
Editor:
I would like to commend the 
TARTAN for taking a stand on ir
responsibility among the frater
nities. I am one of the silent maj
ority who is sick and tired of 
vandalism, special privileges, and 
overall immaturity which seem to 
be the trademark of our schools 
so-called Greeks.
May I suggest that CarnegieMellon join the ranks of other dis
tinguished institutions like Dartmouth who have outlawed frater! 
nities altogether.
I would sign this letter, but 
previous experience with threats 
from one of these groups dictates 
otherwise.
Name Withheld Upon Request
Airplay
Editor:
Hooray for the live radio 
dramas (WRCT presents Airplay, 
TARTAN, 10/9). I am certain 
that as soon as the general public 
learns of the dramas, the number
letter^
of your listeners will increase.
There are thousands of persons 
in Pittsburgh who cannot view 
television ( the blind) and many 
who cannot afford TV sets. 
These people would welcome relief 
from the radio, talk shows, and 
news. KQV-AM (fom 9-11 PM) 
is the only other station in the 
area with any kind of drama.
I will be looking forward to 
hearing your drama presentations.
Supervisor Skibo
PRICELESS...
Only costs $15.50 
(a yearbook is forever)
On sale until November 12 at the Skibo Information Desk
1980 THISTLE
The Timeless 
Way of 
Building
CHRISTOPHER ALEXANDER
The
TimekssWay of 
Building
Alexander
The
O*** Expert
The long-awaited introduc
tory volume to the series 
that includes A Pattern 
Language and The Oregon 
Experiment is at last avail
able.
Together the three books 
present a new theory of 
architecture, building, and 
planning which has at its 
core that age-old process by 
which the people of a
society have pulled the 
order of their world from 
their own being.
In The Timeless Way of 
Building, Alexander intro
duces the concept of "pat
tern languages that is 
associated with his 
namelanguages of design 
which are so simple that 
they are easily understood 
if not known already, and
VIP
which enable anyone to 
create an infinite variety of 
new and unique and beau
tiful buildings without the 
aid of the architectural pro
fession as we know it.
Part mystical search, part
I**"'
practical advice. The Time
less Way ojBuilding is, 
like the other books in the 
series, an ambitious and 
wholly original contribu
tion to the theory and prac
tice of architecture.
Alexander writes, There 
is one timeless way of 
building. It is thousands of 
years old. and the same 
today as it has always been. 
The great traditional build
ings of the past, the villages 
and tents and temples in 
which man feels at home, 
have always been made by 
people who were verv close 
to the center of this way. 
And as you will see, this 
way will lead anyone who 
looks for it to buildings 
which are themselves as 
ancient in their form as the 
trees and hills, and as our 
faces are."
THE SERIES 
A Pattern Language
I believe this to be perhaps 
the most important book 
on architectural design 
published this century.
Every library, every school, 
every environmental action 
group, every architect, and 
every first-year student 
should have a copy.
Tony Ward
Architectural Design $35.00
The Oregon 
Experiment
"The Oregon Experiment is 
perhaps this decades best 
candidate for a perma
nently important book.
Roy Campbell
The Boston Globe $17.95
Christopher Alexander,
winner of the first medal 
for research ever awarded 
by the American Institute 
of Architects, is a practic
ing architect and builder. 
Professor of Architecture at 
the University of California. 
Berkeley, and Director of 
the Center for Environ
mental Structure. He also 
wrote Notes on the Synth
esis of Form.
ISBN 0-19-502402 8. 576 pp., 
65 halftones. 34 drawings. 
5V4x7V\ $i9.50t
emu bcckstore

---------------------------------------------------

Any questions, comments, suggestions, or criticisms about FOOD SERVICE?
S$SSSSSSS
CMU considers fed. bldg.
Pag^i-T A RT AN October 16,1979--------------------------------------------------------------------
by Pete Levin
As part of its endless search for space, 
Carnegie-Mellon University has expressed 
an interest to the federal government con
cerning the possible purchase of the Bureau 
of Mines Building, which is adjacent to the 
University on Forbes Avenue.
Right now, the building is only being used 
to about 75 per-cent of its capacity, be
cause the bureau is in the process of 
moving operations to Brucetown, Penn
sylvania (directly east of Pitfsburgn). In the 
past, other federal government agencies 
have shared the building with the bureau, 
but always on a temporary basis.
The University has officially expressed to 
Senator John Heinz of Pennsylvania, who 
was formally an associate dean of the Grad
uate School of Industrial Administration. 
In order for the government to even con
sider the sale of the building, the Depart
ment of the interior has to state that they 
no longer have any use for it, which they, 
have not done as yet. According to Oscar
Mayer, Director of Auxiliary Services, an 
attempt to abandon the building was made 
several years ago, but was unsuccessful.
 The building itself is both beautifully 
located and very spacious, stated Meyer, 
and Im sure that we would make good 
use of it academically ( it contains labora
tory facilities) and non-academically for 
office space or for student organizations. 
No one is quite sure how much the build
ing would cost if placed on the market, but 
rough estimates are in the tens of millions 
of dollars.
It is important to note, however, that the 
discussion of purchasing the building has 
taken place for the last twenty years, and 
Dr. Richard Van Horn. Vice President for 
Management, is quick to point out that 
it very easily could last another twenty 
years. We just dont know what is going 
to happen with the Bureau of Mines Build
ing. 1 guess were just going to nave to wait 
for the government to decide one way or 
the other, he concluded.
ALLEGHENY,
WASHINGTON
COUNTIES
Emergency memo
The following is a memo from Robert 
Anderegg, Coordinator of Safety and 
Security, to all student residents concern
ing emergency evacuation procedures.
The University has instituted a program of 
planned emergency evacuation drills for 
all campus buildings, residence halls in
cluded. The cooperation of all building 
occupants during drills is required, and will 
be to the advantage of all concerned. It is 
important that everyone knows and under
stands the safeguards which they need to 
employ, in order to help preserve their 
own personal safety in the event of an 
emergency. The following are a number of 
basic procedures which should be observed 
during evacuations.
1. Close all windows within your area 
to prevent cross drafts of air from 
entering the building.
"2. Carry a damp towel with you when 
evacuating. In a true emergency 
this could be used to protect your 
face and hair, or to act as a filter 
against breathing smoke. When waved 
from a window the towel would 
serve to signal firefighters outside 
if assistance were needed
3. Keep all interior and exterior fire
"Reaching 
God's love 
around the world 
through the 
International 
Students11
International 
Student Evangelism
3238 Juliet Street 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
(412) 687-6859
doors closed to prevent cross drafts 
of air fom entering the building, and 
to help retard the spread of fire.
4. Evacuation should be performed 
without unnecessary running. Any 
action which might cause others to 
panic must be carefully avoided.
5. Elevators should not be used for 
evacuation purposes. Power fail
ures can cause the elevator car to 
stick between floors and smoke and 
fire can travel up through the eleva
tor shaft.
6. Unless your area offers no other 
means of egress, all traffic on stair
ways should travel downward.
7. Caution is to be employed when 
approaching stairwell entrances; you 
may be merging with evacuees from 
other floors.You will need to do 
this as smoothly as possible.
8. Familiarization with the locations 
of all available exits is essential. 
Should an exit be blocked by smoke 
or fire, you will need to redirect 
your course to the next available 
exit. Assistance and direction 
should also be given to those who 
may be following after you, par
ticularly the handicapped.
9. After you have completely cleared 
your building, look back. Someone 
may be signalling for assistance from 
a window inside. By alerting Fire
men and Campus Police Officers you 
will help to speed a rescue attempt.
ONE GIFT SUPPORTS 
OVER 160 ABENC1ES & SERVICES
NOWSERVING:
a
Stephen Director, acting Head of Electrical Engineering and delegate to this fall's Chinese 
Institute of Electronics Conference.
Director discusses China
by Ed Frankenberry In semiconductor electronics, this trans
For the second time in 14 years, mem
bers of the Chinese Institute of Electron
ics (CIE) met this fall. Stephen Director, 
acting Head of the Electrical Engineering 
department, was among the 400 admini
strators and delegates in attendance. 
The CIE extended an invitation to 15 
members of the IEEE Circuits and Sys
tems Society (of which Director is secretary-treasurer) following a symposium held 
in Japan at the end of August. The group 
toured manufacturing facilities, universi
ties and research centers during their 14 
day visit which took them from Peking to 
Canton.
The CIE conference on electronics 
technology took place in the port city of 
Dalian, where the original conference was 
held 14 years before. More frequent meet
ings were suspended during the cultural 
revolution.
The Chinese refer to those years as 
the dark ages, Director explained, and 
now blame the gang of four for the 
lack of progress, technologically and 
otherwise, during that period.
The group visited prominent universi
ties and institutes where they exchanged 
views on education and on-going research. 
The Chinese wished to explain the status 
of the educational system, Director felt, 
and why thay are sending [faculty] 
abroad. The reason stems from the fact 
that most formal research was arrested 
during the past decade. Everyone went 
to the universities during the cultural 
revolution as there were no admission re
quirements and no examinations were 
given. The qualified faculty were lost, 
and some went to work in factories, 
according to Director. One had the 
impression that the Red Guard was 
running [the universities].
As a result, the senior professors and 
administrators felt out of touch, and 
several younger instructors of faculty rank 
have gone to other countries for prepara
tion. Four visiting scholars are involved 
with research at CMU, working with EE 
faculty members in the study of magnetics 
and optical electronics.
Throughout the trip, Director learned 
of the four modernizations of China 
which concern the areas of defense, agri
culture, science and technology, and 
education. He perceived a desire (on the 
part of the Chinese) to get up to date as 
fast as possible, especially regarding tech
nology the country is geared towards 
doing that. State officials use the term 
leapfrog when discussing Chinas stategy 
for rapidly acquiring the latest know-how.
lates to immediately developing Very Large 
Scale Integration (VLSI) circuit fabrication 
without exploring medium to large scale 
integration (which preceded VLSI). But 
this quantum jump in sophistication
poses a problem, Director believes. He 
cited an example of a decision to build an 
I.C. factory which requires exceptional 
cleanliness next door to a steel mill.'
Director was impressed by the candor 
of the Chinese people and the attitude 
that the good of the country comes before 
personal gain. The Chinese are an open 
people, he explained, and they feel 
that the country must progress before 
they can progress. The cultural revolu
tion embodied a break with tradition, an 
era when all were considered equal and 
few distinctions made. Differentiation and 
titles are slowly returning. Education is 
very important, as evidenced by the fact 
that a professor earns perhaps 5 times as 
much income as a factory worker. Direc
tor expressed optimism for, the future.
The IEEE group visited Chin Wa Uni
versity in Peking which Director described 
as the MIT of China. Students study a 
varied curriculum eleven months each year, 
in a 5 year program. The university cur
rently enrolls 4000 students but plans to 
increase to 10,000 as the number of 
qualified faculty members grows. Gradu
ates will be placed in jobs by the state.
There were often dramatic differences 
in the Chinese and Western ways of life. 
As Director explained, refrigerators, 
washers and most consumer goods are 
priced artificially high, he said, so that 
resources are not devoted to their man
ufacture. Automobliles are owned by insti
tutes rather than by private individuals and 
bicycles are the primary means of personal
transportation. Until quite recently,
there has been no advertising because 
 everything is run by the state, its one 
big company. Clothing too, is not a
priority and is basically blue and black. 
Housing, while less spacious, costs the 
equivalent of $2 per month. Food and 
housing shortages are persistant facts of 
life for its 800 million inhabitants. There is 
no crime and no evidence of star
vation, but depending on the region, 
some food items are rationed, he 
added. China follows a six day work week 
where the holiday rotates among differ
ent groups, which means that not every
one is off at once. People were surprised 
at the visitors willingness to carry their 
own bags and expected Americans to have 
servants.

---------------------------------------------------

%tetober 16, 1979TARTANPage 7
Senate report
by Edna Kunkel
At the last Senate meeting, several 
things were accomplished, The Liberal 
Club was recognized as a non-supported 
organization, and the Spirits 79 - 80 
budget was presented and approved. In 
the way of announcements, the United 
Way will be sponsoring a student cam
paign on campus later this month. It was 
also brought out that petitions for the 
November 7 and 8 elections are now 
available at the Skibo Information DesK 
and must be returned by Oct. 24 (mid
night). Vacant Senate seats were filled 
in CIT by Laurie Elm, and in MIS by 
Arthur Benjamin.
Dorms packed
by L. Vernon Valentine
Each year the Housing Office must deal 
with the problem of too many students 
and not enough dormitory space. Students 
not assigned to regular dorm rooms at the 
beginning of the school year were placed 
in lounges of Scobell and A,D and E Tow
ers of Morewood.
According to Doug Gross, Assistant Di
rector of Housing, We know that almost 
every year were going to have an overload. 
The overload , he says, is a result of lastminute applications. He pointed out that 
Housing does not know exactly how many 
students need housing until a few days be
fore classes begin.
Before being placed in a lounge, each 
student is notified that he /she will be 
placed in temporary housing until a room 
becomes available. The exact date for final 
placement of the last student is unknown. 
Gross stated that there are problems every 
year of setting an exact date, as it depends 
on the number of rooms that become va-. 
cant, and when they become vacant.
He also said that students are not per
mitted to remain in the lounges because 
they are student lounges designed for use 
by all students.
Gross stated that men are usually able 
to be placed in permanent housing sooner 
than women. This is because there is a lar
ger number of males, and therefore a larger 
number of male dropouts. Men can also be 
placed in empty fraternity house rooms, an 
escape valve that women do not have.
Currently, there are about a dozen 
women left in temporary housing. One of 
the remaining women commented, Its a 
damn shame for friends to be separated 
because of beauracracy. Its a development 
that causes the individuals involved a lot 
of pain. These unnecessary adjustments
After many months of waiting, the tower for the new WRCT-FM antenna was erected on top of 
Warner Hall. The antenna was to have been up by the beginning of this school year, but shipping 
ays and bad weather caused several delays. Construction will be completed this week.
Cyert opens office
by Jeanette Bryan
This year, President Cyert will continue 
his practice of open office hours for stu
dents.
The response from -students has been 
favorable so far. Cyert estimates that he 
recieves about eight individual students, 
and sometimes groups of students in a 
two hour period. The diversity of students 
gives him a good sampling of the campus 
environment.
Discussions range from personal 
problems to general university issues. A 
current problem that has been brought 
to Cyerts attention is the absence of 
no smoking signs in Science Hall ele
vators. The elevators have no ventilation, 
which creates a fire hazard as well as 
causing discomfort to non-smokers. 
This will soon be alleviated, says Cyert.
Last year, certain student groups met 
during open hours to discuss the possibility 
of extending and developing housing so 
that certain similar interest groups could 
share living quarters. We now have a 
Hillel House (a Jewish house), a Fine 
Arts House, Computer Science and 
Sorority houses.
Recently, students have voiced their
in some of the dorms. Since the sorori
ties have left Morewood, some of the 
lounges which they were using are not 
furnished. The uncomfortable bumps 
on Morewoods main floor and inadequate 
furnishings of other dorm areas have been 
brought to Cyerts attention.
The lack of meeting places and student 
facilities is another subject discussed during 
office hours. Students have also suggested 
that more lounges and offices be opened 
for student use. Others have suggested 
that more social meeting places be pro
vided, such as a rathskeller. Cyert is 
investigating the possibilities for esta
blishing such meeting places. It is unlike
ly, though, that the rathskeller will be 
added since a high percentage of students 
are under legal drinking age.
The days that Cyerts office is open 
varies from month to month. They are 
always held from 3-5 pm and the first 
hour can be reserved by appointment.
The next two sessions will be held 
on Nov. 13 and Dec. 7. In addition to 
this open forum, the President will host 
a call-in question and answer program 
over WRCT-FM. It will be from 7-8 pm 
on a Tuesday, once monthly. His first
could be awided with proper organization. complaints about the lack of furniture discussion will be on Oct. 30.
CMU responds to Fonda-Hayden
by Susan Borg
Jane Fonda and Tom Hayden are con
troversial figures throughout the country. 
Their lectures have been evoking powerful 
responses in many cities on their fifty-city 
tour. How did CMU feel about what they 
had to say? The following are responses of 
some people who were chosen randomly 
from the audience after the lecture: 
It emphasized my view. It was nothing 
I havent heard before. I mean it was all 
my point of view but it seems like it was, 
tailored to appeal. You know, a lot of 
crowd pleasing, a lot of tatics that Jane 
Fonda used, I think. But I agreed with 
them.
I think its a shame that Tom Hayden 
cant command this kind of attention with
out Jane Fonda. I mean, shes good, but he 
Wnnw; his stuff and I think its a pity that
he cant command attention without her. 
I think they clarified a lot of things tiiat 
people already knew as they cited exam
ples.
It helped me clear up some of the is
sues. I still feel the same way that I felt 
when I came in. I feel stronger, though. I 
thought it was an excellent lecture though. 
I just wish they could have stayed around 
longer.
It broadened my views a bit. I really 
didnt have much background. It gave me a 
bit to think about.
i enjoyed it. Before I came I was not 
real sure of my view point one way or an
other on the issue. Nuclear energy should 
not be phased out like they say. It should 
be made feasible, before it should be phased out. But there are definite alterna
tives to nuclear enerev and oil and natural
gas, and I think they should be looked into 
and something done about it.
I was surprised. I was more interested 
than I thought I would be. It lightened a 
lot of things - like the Love Canal story, 
I had heard of it before. I had heard of the 
Hooker Chemical situation and the pro
blem but I didnt know to what extent it 
was affecting people . . . You dont get to 
realize a lot of things here at CarnegieMellon. Youre in your own little world. 
But they threw so much out that its 
hard to really say what you feel about 
anything. You have your moral opinions 
about everything - whats wrong and 
whats right. Its like too much informa
tion too quick to even sit down and think 
about it - Why is this happening?
SDC space
by Ken Kulak
Student Dormitory Council held its 
weekly meeting on Wednesday October 10, 
in the Wherrett Room. Officers announced 
the installment of phones outside the Hill 
dormitories, the distribution of pool 
equipment in Morewood Gardens, and the 
monthly survey of crime statistics for 
CMU.
Housing Committee reported on the 
petition of Margaret Morrison Apartment 
students for restitutuion by the University 
stemming from the failure to supply book
shelves and a late delivery of desks. Essen
tially, the University stated that they are 
aware of the breech of contract, but refuse 
to make any restitution. According to the 
Housing Committee, if the students sue the 
University, the University would, in turn, 
sue their furniture supplier.
SDC also discussed the lack of heat in 
the new apartments; it was decided that 
the problem should be investigated. Ninety 
dollars was appropriated for SDC to send 
two representitives to a convention on stu
dent activities, Planning and Program
ming, to be held in Pittsburgh later this 
semester.
SDC adjourned at 7:50 PM to allow 
representatives to attend a talk given 
by the Dean of Student Affairs from the 
University of Louisville on University mal
practice and liability. SDC will hold their 
next meeting tomorrow night in the 
Wherrett Room, Skibo, at 7PM.
UFS feeds fans
by L. Vernon Valentine
This year, at the request of James Banner 
Director of Athletics and Physical Educa
tion, University Food Service (UFS) took 
over concessions at home football games, 
which had been operated by the Alpha Phi 
Omega fraternity.
So far, UFS has operated the conces
sions at three football games, including 
last weeks Homecoming game. John 
Eichmuller, Director of UFS, called the 
operation successful. Stated Eichmuller, 
Even though the weather was consider
ably different for the first two games, 
business was about the same. He also 
said, Im surprised that were 
doing this well.
Asked about the quality of the food, 
Eichmuller replied, There are quality 
specifications we live up to, whether it be 
for hotdogs or keilbassa. He added that 
Food Service has a measure of quality 
that it looks for. If its beef, its U.S.D.A. 
choice.
Food Service obtains its food from 
producers on a system of weekly bids. 
Said Eichmuller, Weve a system where we 
call in six or eight purveyers each week, 
and they bid for our meat business. We 
feel this is the best way to handle that.
The Homecoming crowd caused a con
siderable increase in patronage for Food 
Service. Response to the quality of the 
food and service was varied, but generally 
positive. Because of a confusion in servic
ing and non-servicing lines one student 
stated that service was terrible. Another 
student compared the food to the food 
served during meals: very similar - bad. 
Yet, the majority of responses ranged from 
not bad to real good.
Eichmuller intends to run this service 
for basketball games, and, if the admin
istration terms it successful, for next 
years games.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8TARTANOctober 16,*tl?79I
news roundup
by Dave Boyce
STOCK MARKET RECOVERS FROM 
ROUGH WEEK
The Dow Jones Industrial Average plun
ged 25 points last Wednesday and sent tra
ding volume figures to record highs in 
stock market history. The heavy trading 
came in response to efforts by the Federal 
Reserve Board to shrink the money supply 
and thereby reduce inflation. Small inves
tors sold their stock in a near panic 
effort to convert their holdings to cash. 
Large investors stepped in on Thursday 
and bought heavily to offset any pos
sibility of a crash.
Overseas, the dollar gained strength 
against foreign currencies as investors 
showed their approval of the US moves to 
curb inflation.
CONNALLY TAKES HARD-LINE 
STANCE ON ISRAEL
In a speech before the Washington Press 
Club last week, Republican presidential 
candidate John B. Connally proposed that 
Israel withdraw from all lands taken in 
1967 and that Jerusalem become an inter
national city. Connally drew sharp criti
cism from American Jewish leaders and is 
alone in his views among other presiden
tial candidates.
CASTRO BLAMES U.S. "IMPERIAL
ISTS" FOR WORLD PROBLEMS
In a two-hour speech before the United 
Nations General Assembly last Friday, 
Cuban President Fidel Castro indicted the 
United States for its defense of Zionism, 
for its support of racism in South Africa, 
and for its colonialism in Puerto Rico. He 
then suggested that the United States arid 
other wealthy nations could atone for
these sins by contributing $300 billion to a 
UN fund over the next ten years to help 
develop the Third World countries.
POOR CLIMATE FOR BUSINESS 
IN PENNSYLVANIA
Of the 48 contiguous states, Pennsyl
vania ranks 44th in its ability to attract and 
retain business interests. In testimony 
before the state senate Committee on Con
stitutional Changes, witnesses pointed to 
excessive' government spending as the 
source of the problems. Professor Peter C. 
Ordeshook of CMU spoke out for greater 
efficiency and less expensive solutions, 
when tax money is involved, out of respect 
for the taxpayer as well as for the business 
climate.
THORNBURGH MAKES CHANGES 
IN CABINET
The Pennsylvania Departments of Labor 
and Industry and of Health will have new 
senior officers come November. Dr. Myron 
L. Joseph, Professor of Economics and In
dustrial Administration here at CMU, will 
return to resume his duties about Novem
ber 1. Dr. Gordon K. MacLeod will return 
to the University of Pittsburgh and his 
work in the Graduate School of Public 
Health.
BROWN TO OPPOSE A-PLANT 
OPERATION
California Governor Jerry Brown plans 
to formally intervene in the ongoing pro
ceedings of the licensing of the nuclear 
power facility at Diablo Canyon, Califor
nia. The Pacific Gas and Electric Company 
had been unable to obtain an operating li
cense for the $ 1.4 billion plant because it 
sits near a geologic fault. The plant has 
been declared safe, however, by the Atom
*y5S9SBeeHB6fiSSBBHSSS5BBBlSSefi\95l5l5ei5fil55151Sl5eeE5El5Sig
CAMPUS STORE? 
CORNER
TEST YOUR SKILLS!
No. 507 The Game Box $8.50
The three aH time favorite games, chess, 
backgammon, and checkers are contaihed 
in a handsome permanent storage case 
(4%" * 5" x 2)4"). Ideal for the traveller. 
Combination backgammon/chess board 
opens to a full 9%" x 8%" playing surface. 
Board is made from Velvin vinyl. Finely 
crafted chess pieces (%" x 1 9/16" king) 
look and feel ike natural ivory. Thirty 
checker/backgammon stones (%" x 3/16) 
are made from cfistinctive marblized impact 
plastic. Included are two dice cups, four 
dice and doubling cube.
No. 225 The Brain $7.50
This handsome and intriguing puzzle 
revives the challenge of man vs. machine. It 
requires 170 programmed moves to place 
all the rods in the out position. Can you beat 
the computer?
No. 302 Tut's Tomb $4.00
ANCIENT PUZZLE OF THE NIUE Egyptian 
architects created this ingenious puzzle. 
Four simple geometric parts form a perfect 
pyrami; yet it has challenged great scholars 
through the ages. This stark white pyramid 
on polished black base is a striking con
versation piece. Size, 5%" at base  4" 
high.
No. 406 Chronologic $4.00
63 moves, logic and careful planning are 
required to solve this ancient mathematical 
puzzle. A combination of rich wood tones 
and crystal blue plastic makes thhis a 
decorative piece as well as an intriguing 
puzzle. Size 4 3/8" x 7 1/8" x 1". In
dividually packaged in transparent gift box.emu bookstore
trivia Question
#4. What is the oldest gaming implement known to man?
ANSWER. 
Nome
ic Safety and Licensing Board because of 
modification made to strengthen the struc
ture. Brown and physical science consul
tants do not agree with this estimation and 
contend that an accident is still possible.
U.S. MILITARY STRATEGY IN ASIA 
MAY CHANGE
For the past .25 years, American mili
tary strategy in the event of global war has 
been to give precedence to protection of 
our NATO allies by swinging Asia-based 
forces over to Western Europe. Secretary 
of Defense Harold Brown and other highlevel officials have reviewed this plan be
cause of important US commitments to 
Japan, the new friendship with China, and 
the growing presence of Soviet military 
strength throughout the Western Pacific. 
Any new strategy, however, will be com
plicated by US commitments to NATO. 
Brown and other strategists will be working 
on this problem the months ahead.
RHODESIAN CONSTITUTIONAL
TALKS NEAR DEADLOCK
British mediators and Rhodesian fac
tions face a difficult challenge in the Rho
desian constitutional talks now being held 
in London. The Patriotic Front guerrillas, 
led by Joshua Nkomo, want to reposess 
land that was unjustly acquired from 
native Africans. The Rhodesian govern
ment, led by Bishpp Abel Muzorewa, en
dorses the British proposal that displaced 
people be paid compensatory damages for 
the loss of their land. The British say that 
this is a time for decision.
OHIRA FACES DIFFICULT TIME IN 
JAPAN
Prime Minister Masayoshi Ohira attemp
ted to stabilize his partys political future, 
as well as his own, last week by holding a 
general election one year ahead of -his 
planned bid for re-election. He hoped to 
win a majority in the Diet but failed.
Ohira wants to bring some continuity to 
foreign and domestic policy in Japan. By 
doing so, he believes he could strengthen 
Japanese ties to the resource-rich nations 
of the world. Japan is also being called 
upon to bear a larger responsibility for its 
own defense. Whether or not Ohira will be 
successful will depend on his political skill 
in the coming year.
SMALL BUSINESS RETURNS TO CHINA
Chinese leaders have officially repealed 
old laws that forbade small business oper
ations. Although the profits go to the gov
ernment, enterprising people are now more 
able to follow through on money-making 
ideas. One factory made $200,000 last year 
by selling decoratively painted eggshells.
Under the old system, which still exists 
in much of China, students are assigned 
jobs when they finish high school. Unfor
tunately, there are far too few jobs avail
able, and estimates'of unemployment range 
as high as 20 million people. In the next 
five years, some three million students will 
graduate from high school and need jobs. 
Four percent will go to college.
^ *1# sL vly vJL* vLf ^ 1# 1# 1 p J' ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ T 
Address
WATCH FOR THE 
HUGHES 
RECRUITER VISITING 
YOUR CAMPUS SOON.
*
Contact your placement office 
for interview dates.
! HUGHES i------------------------------------1
Creating a new world with electronics
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER M/F
IRON CITY
SCHUTZUD
SCHMIDTS 
CHAMPALE 
STROHS 
GENESEE 
ROLLING ROCK 
SCHLITZ MALT 
BALLANTINE ALE 
MILLER LIGHT 
MICHELOB 
PABST 
MILLER 
COLT 45
GENESEE CREAM ALE 
BUSCH
SCHUTZ LIGHT
Featuring 22 Varieties Steak Subs
SERVING BEER SUNDAY 1 PM - 2 AM 
QUARTS - MUGS - PITCHERS 
CHOICE OF 6 DIFFERENT DRAFT BEERS
MILLERS. COLT 45. MOL SON ALE. LOWENBRAU DARK 
STROMS HEINEKEN LIGHT One different 16 o/ 6 pk featured each *e*k 
SCHLITZ  PABST 
SCHLITZ MALT  STROH'S * ROLLING ROCK 
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO ADVER
TIZE OUR LOW BEER PRICES
 SPECIALTY ITEMS 
FRESH CUT FRENCH FRIES  PIZZA SERVED TILL 3 AM 
HOT DOGS CHOICE OF 12 DIFFERENT CONDIMENTS 
35 VARIETIES OF SANDWICHES 
----------------------- IMPORTS -------------------------
H0i DOG SHOPS. INC
BASS ALE England DORT HANSA Germany 
SAM MIGUEL PhiKpmes 
SPATENBRAU Germany ST PAULI GIRL Germany 
PILSNER URQUELL Czech 
GUINESS STOUT Ireland DAS XX EQUIS Mexico 
WURZBURGER Germany 
HARP LAGER Ireland LOWENBRAU Germany 
O'KEEFE ALE Canada DINKEL ACKER Germany TECATE Mexico ISENBECK W Germany 
IRYSTALL Italy 
MACKESON EnglandThispatt weThisiitk nnnnnnnn
3901 FORBES AV (OAKLAND) PGH. PA 15213
 KIRIN Japan 
PERONI Italy 
RIGNES Norway BECKS Germany HOF BRAU Germany 
ZYWIEC Poland
 KRAKUS Poland SUPERIOR Mexico FOSI fcRS Australia 
HEINEKEN Holland MOLSON ALE Canada 
PAULANER Germany GOSSER Austria TANKARD London
 UNION W Germany PALE ALE London DINKEL Germany 
WARFTEINEL Germany

---------------------------------------------------

Vassar can best
"I'm not a dogooder. I'm a 
revolutionary woman."
Tnergy^mTmtnis^ "aFlain^
She has enjoyed recent success in her 
movies Julia (1977) and Coming 
Home (1978). Coming Home was 
made by Fondas company, I.P.C.
Jane Fonda is an honest, emotionally 
charged actress and woman. She lives 
modestly in Santa Monica, California 
with her two young children, and her 
husband , Hayden. Most likely before we 
are through hearing from Ms. Fonda there 
will be many more stages in her life.
Mike McGrady of Newsday (Feb. 
18, 1964) was wrong when he said that 
Ms. Fonda was  the human being most 
likely to become a thing. Ms. Fonda 
is definitely no thing.
by Robert Harris
Her piercing eyes, prominent jaw, and 
rectilinear nose are bit players to a conti
nental sized mouth that draws attention 
to the face. Her stolid face has been dis
missed,'scoffed at, and entitled the Red 
Guard face. Her face has masterfully been 
the countenance of a great authoress, a 
vulcanized prostitute, an imprisoned 
housewife, and an average intelligent 
woman. The face belongs to Jane Fonda.
Jane Fonda has gone through innumer
able climacterics in her life. Her present 
lifestyle has imperfectly emerged through 
four stages. ,
The first stage, her childhood, was spent 
living in New York City, where she was 
born December 12, 1937, and in Brent
wood California. She considers her child
hood a happy one primarily because of her 
closeness to her brother, Peter.
Her mother, socialite Frances Seymour 
Brokaw, Henry Fondas second wife, com
mitted sui'cide in a sanatorium when Jane 
was 12. She was told her mother died of a 
heart attack, but unfortunately she read a 
short time later in a movie magazine that 
her mother committed suicide, shattering 
her childhood.
She attended Greenwich (Conn.) Acade
my, The Emma Willard School (Troy, NY), 
and Yasser for two years. Her effort at 
Vasser can best be described as the effort 
of a sexual activist.
The second stage, sex kitten, was due to 
her own naivete, the blatant exploitation 
of the film industry of the time, and the 
compulsion of her first husband, director 
Roger Vadim, to turn Fonda into another 
Bardot. This stage began with the movie 
A Tall Story (1960) and mercifully 
ended with the movie Barbarella (1968).
Even during this ridiculous period of her 
life Fonda showed some of her immense 
talent. She won a drama critics award in
Her effort at
Jane Fonda, a woman of many faces, lectured Monday October 8 in Skibo ballroom.
Jane Fonda 
From feminist activist
*
to progressive democrat
In an article in Life (April 23, 1971) she 
explained her inconsistency of what she 
meant by revolutionary: I didnt have
time to sit down with books and get an 
historical analysis and put it all into per
spective, she says. It was an emotional, 
gut kind of thing.
The lack of an historical analysis has 
generated some memorable errors. One 
error commonly pointed to was blurted 
out in an argument with a pro-war individ
ual on a Dick Cavett show. She purported 
that the American Revolution had been 
fought without outside help.
Her radicalism culminated in a trip to 
Hanoi in July of 72. On Hanoi radio she 
denounced American pilots as war 
criminals.
During this stage of her life she won 
an academy award for her role as a pros
titute inKlute (1971) and she closed 
this period of her life with the movie 
Steelyard Blues (1972). In 1972 she 
explained that Steelyard Blues, is a 
 film which says stealing is not theft, 
property is theft.
The fourth stage, progressive demo
crat , includes her second husband, Tom 
Hayden who is a founder of the S.D.S. , a 
radical student organization of the 1960s, 
and a loser in the 1976 California Senator
ial election.
Fonda and Hayden are currently travel
ing all over the country promoting the 
California Campaign for Economic Demo
cracy. The lecture tour pomotes solar
her tour of poverty in India, and her 1970 
trip, by car, across the Uni-ted States.
Shortly after completing They Shoot 
Horses, Dont They? (1969) she took up 
the causes of the American Indians. G.l. 
rights. Black Panthers, Soledad Brothers, 
the Womens Movement, the Young Lords, 
lettuce workers, and any group she con
sidered oppressed.
At a 1971 rally in San Francisco she de
clared her radicalism: I'm not a do-gooder. 
Im a revolutionary woman.
a character. In an excerpt from Current 
Biography 1964 it was mentioned that as 
a result of the combination of psycho
analysis and Method acting she insists that 
she finds spme difficulty in distinguishing 
between reality and unreality.
The third stage, radical, was precipitated 
by consistent challenging of her defense of 
American policy in Vietnam by Frenchmen 
when she lived in Paris with her husband, 
Vadim, prior to 1968. She was deeply 
shaken by the Paris student riots in 1968,
Jane and husband, Tom Hayden, answer questions
be described as that 
of a sexual activist
her first broadway play, There Was A 
Little Girl (1960), wjiich depicted the so
cial consequences of rape on a rape victim.
During her preparation to be an actress 
she had five years of psychoanalysis and 
five years of study in Method acting. This 
trend of introspection, the fad of the time, 
was designed to improve ones portrayal of

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10T A RTAN October 16^1^79
DONT 
GRADUATE
without talking to the 
Hughes Recruiter visiting 
your campus soon. 
Contact your placement office 
for interview dates.
r--------------------------- T
! HUGHES : i___________:----------------1
Creating a new world with electronics
. AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER M/F
of immediate accomplishment - a reward 
hard to find in todays society. There is 
also a definite lessening of anxiety and 
nervousness. You sleep better, eat better, 
and when the opportunity arises,.make 
love better. You gain confidence in your
self and your ability to accomplish goals 
that at one time seemed unobtainable. It 
even helps you study. (Youre too tired 
to do anything else.) Youd be surprised 
how many of your profs are in better shape 
then you are. I even caught sight of Presi
dent Cyert heading for the trail - CMU 
sweat suit included. And there is always 
the runners high - that all too fleeting feel
ing of total freedom and flight of con
sciousness.
Which leads us into the physical benefits 
ranging from increased endurance to the 
decresed waistline, increased life expectan
cy to decreased heart rate, increased enjoy
ment of life due to a decrease in the occur - 
ance of physical disease.
Its all for real. Just look at any of the 
thousands of books flooding the market. 
And if you note a tone of cynicism there, 
its not directed at running but at its com
mercialization.
So dont sneer at color coordinated 
warm-up suits, as long as they arent worn 
to make up for unrun miles;likewise at the 
books, as long as theyre used for inspira
tion and information - not procrastination.
One absolutely essential investment, 
though, is in footwear. The old adage, If 
the shoe fits, wear it, just doesnt apply to 
running. Good shoes are a must. I prefer 
Nike Tailwinds with the air sole. (Im just 
waiting for the day when I step on a nail 
and get a flat.) They cost $50 (well, lets 
not exaggerate, $49.95) and theyre worth 
every cramp-saving penny of it. Dont learn 
the hard way. When youre pounding your 
weight on your entire body, spine includ
ed, you had better take precautions to 
insulate yourself from the shock as much 
as possible.
One last note concerning the uniqueness 
of running. Despite the rise in self-confi
dence, this sport makes you very aware of 
the fact that, as far as your body is con
cerned, youre right down there with all 
the other primates. Some runs you may 
feel everything in the world as though you 
yourself were a gazelle. Others, you spit, 
sweat, fart, and belch your way through. 
Youre forced to confront the fact that, in 
some respects, you are very much an ani
mal and its nothing to be ashamed about. 
Having run for about four years, I now 
understand a quote from a runner which I 
had read early in my career: Running is 
like a dance with death. It is because you 
are very aware of your own mortality at 
the same time you seem to be conquering 
it.
On that semi-serious note, its time to 
leave. The suns up and I have eight miles 
Id like to get in this morning, if my body 
will permit it.
*Running is hard- If you take it at the 
right pace and dont push yourself into 
crutches, you'd be how surprised how little 
discomfort is involved.
?Running is easy- Any veteran will tell 
you its rough when youre only into the 
first mile. Your body feels like death 
warmed over, and the only thing that keeps 
you gQing is a dim anticipation of a second 
wind. So dont be discouraged by it at first, 
it s not as colorful as the magazine advertisments make it out to be.
?Running is a cure-all- Although I rate 
it second only to chicken soup, it will not 
miraculously take care of your impacted 
wisdom teeth without the aid of a dental 
surgeon - but it might help you heal faster.
?Running is the best sport invented by 
man- Other than the fact that it wasnt 
invented, swimming, biking, and jumping 
rope, to name a few, are also excellent 
endurance oriented excercise. Which brings 
us to the last myth.
?Everyone is a potential runner- Not 
true, whether it be an actual physical pro
blem or lack of mental drive. A lot of peo
ple are not adaptable to the sport. But 
dont presuppose youre not until youVe 
tried - you may be pleasantly surprised.
Running: pleasures and pains
by Andy Epstein
Imagine awaking to the pittering of 
drops - little drops you hope. Dragging 
yourself and the sheets to the kitchen to 
prepare a cup of brew, you pray to the 
runner-god that he will take pity of your 
pulled ligaments and blisters and make the 
rain stop. No such luck - life is a marathon 
and you're at the back of the pack.
Jittery with caffein, you quickly 
stretch, anxious at what will confront you 
at the door. Its driving rain of course, but 
you are a runner - and it has been worse. A 
mental kick in the butt and youre out in 
the grey, dodging puddles and cars. Mind 
over matter - the Protean Body - you run 
firmly bundled in philosophical rhetoric as 
your body rebels against the weather and 
your foolishness.
Six miles later youre home and soggy
and tired - but triumphant. Mind over mat
ter...
Twenty four hours later youre sadly 
contradicted as you lay in bed with the flu.
If there was a runners creed, it might 
start out with Ours is not to reason 
why... mixed with Neither rain nor snow 
nor... ad infinitem. Basically running can 
be described as optimistic, legalized maso
chism - a brand of zen which would fit well 
in this campus. Running is a drug - ask any
one who after a year or two of addiction is 
temporarily benched. The withdrawl 
symptoms they will complain of range 
from insomnia and constipation to a gene
ral feeling of anxiety.
For all the pain (take heart, starters--its 
mostly at the beginning), running does 
have its rewards.
On the mental track, there is the sense
(hemiral 
Engineering 
Chemistry
National Starch and Chemical Corpora
tion, one of the fastest growing specialty 
chemicals" companies and a recognized 
leader in its field, has unique opportunities 
offering exceptional career potential for 
seniors majoring in the above.
Please visit our Representative on
November 8, 1979
If unable to attend please send your resume to 
Richard Ranieri, College Relations Manager
STARCH AND CHEMICAL CORPORATION
Flnderne Avenue
Bridgewater, New Jersey 08807
An Affirmative Action Employer M/F

---------------------------------------------------

October 16, 1979TARTANPage 11
Inside the flashcube
A Profile on Dean Swank
Dean Swank-a man of many interests who still keeps in touch with the problems of students.
emu
#
Tkis Tuesday 
Oct (6 - 7-.ho 9 M 
loKerfy Hall 23JO
Fiftk Fi/rw
THE MUSICvi ews ltr^!^l
(fteuty in MattewafVcs)
Tnelfsh :
Trol R.J)|in
( Mort )
Prof A>* H*yJ 
(E*y(tsk)
Any ASCENT or
nlo
m*
Nerft
TOct.23
Tke Starr/ 
Messe n|er
(CoperiMC as 
Oct Gcli/e.o)
by David Mills
Many professionals find that in
order to climb the ladder of rank 
in their fields, they must change 
employers each step of the way. 
This is not the case with Dean of 
Student Affairs Earle Swank. His entire 
professional career has been spent here 
at CMU.
Swank came to Carnegie Tech in 1948 
as an instructor of English after receiving 
his Masters at Harvard University. His 
assignment was to teach one-third of all 
Freshman English courses. During this 
period, he was involved in outside busi
nesses writing consultations. In 1956 
he became Techs first Financial Aid 
Officer and first Foreign Student Ad
visor. As Foreign Student Advisor, Swank 
established a locus for services for foreign 
students. As Financial Aid Officer, he 
tackled such projects as developing a 
need analysis system for aid, broadening 
the use of student loans, and finding a 
more effective method of employing 
endowed scholarship funds. By 1959 
he had added the role of Dean of Men to 
his responsibilities. His present post was 
attained in 1967 when he became Dean 
of Student Affairs. Swank still chooses 
to teach a section of Freshman Writing 
each semester as he believes it is a good 
way to keep in touch with the problems 
of student life.
One peculiarity about Swank is that 
he always lived on campus. When he 
first came to Carnegie Tech he lived in 
the Faculty Club which was located 
where Warner Hall now stands. The 
reasons for this were for both conven
ience and economics. Except for one 
brief move off-campus, he has lived in 
the Woodlawn Apartments ever since the 
Faculty Club was demolished. This en
ables him to report quickly to emergen
cies where a member of the administra
tion is needed.
Dean Swank has many interests which 
he enjoys during his spare moments. He 
regularly attends the Pittsburgh Symphony and tries to remain current in the
Campus Interviews
TI in Johnson City, TN
----------------------------What You Need -
You should have a BS or MS degree in one of the following: 
Electrical Engineering Computer Science
Mechanical Engineering Engineering Physics
------------------------------What We Do 
Electronic Engineering 
Industrial Engineering
The Electronic Technology Center combines TI microcomputer business with advanced 
systems to provide high volume state-of-the-art electronic controls for industrial and 
commercial applications. These include programmable industrial controls, appliance 
controls, and heat/air conditioning controls.
-------------------------Areas of Activity-------------------------
Electronic Design Engineering 
Manufacturing Engineering 
Technical Sales/Marketing 
Manufacturing Supervision 
Quality Assurance Engineering 
Mechanical Packaging
Software/Hardware Development 
Design Automation 
Test Equipment Design 
Digital/Analog Design 
Industrial Technical Service
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS November 1
If unable to interview at this time, send your resume in confidence to: Bill 
Forgione/P. O. Box 1255/Johnson City, TN 37601.
(umle 80eN4bou0Ne
INCORPORATED
An equal opportunity employer M/F
field of theatre. He also travels to New 
York City at least once each year to see 
a Broadway production. In his apartment, 
Swank entertains guests whenever he can, 
and occasionally plays the organ. Some
times he goes somewhere by himself and 
sketches or watercolors. He finds that a 
good way to avoid being bothered is to 
sit in his car and work; evert in the busiest 
sections of the city, people do not notice 
that he is sketching. Trains are one of his 
favorite interests. Just give him the chance, 
and he will discuss anything from old and 
forgotten trolleys and steam engines to 
Amtracks newest passenger trains.
During his vacation and about one 
weekend each month, Swank visits his 
farmhouse in eastern Pennsylvania. Years 
ago, he and his sister bought and old farm 
and renovated it as a vacation home. 
The lifestyle is much different out there. 
People are not as wrapped up in the pri
vacy culture as they are here. People 
matter a lot more. People will go out 
of their way to help you. For example, 
he said, If I saw that a steer had escaped 
from my neighbors farm, I would try to 
repair it myself. Then I would call my
neighbor, explain the situation, and say
that he might want to inspect the repair 
job on the fence. Swank claims that
visiting the farm helps to keep his job
in perspective. Most people dont live
surrounded with seventeen to twenty-one 
year olds all year long. When he talks 
to farmers in the area, their problems are 
quite different than the peoblems of a 
college administrator. Farm economics 
is not the same as economics of college 
administration. If you are ever in rural 
eastern Pennsylvania, keep your eyes
open - you may see your Dean of Student 
Affairs selling sweet com from the back 
of a pick-up truck; it has happened before.
Spotlight on . . .
CIA
by Paul Karmin
The Carnegie-Mellon Involvement Asso
ciation (C.I. A.) is an independent, student 
run group set up expressly for the purpose 
of participating in the campus community.
In general the CIA is designed to pro
vide a fraternity-like level of involvement 
and interest without the necessity of 
actual membership in a frat. As the presi
dent, Larry Sita, characterizes it, If you 
like what the frats do but dont want the 
restrictions that are imposed on your 
freedom of choice then were for you. 
In order to accomplish this the CIA takes 
part in a diverse range of activities includ
ing buggy, booth, Spring Carnival, intra
murals, etc....
Currently there are 130 dues-paying 
members and an executive board composed 
of Larry Sita, the president and the two 
vice presidents, Joanne Kovalcik and Sue 
Altmeyer. Their domains are, respectively, 
buggy and administration. There is also a 
secretary and treasurer.
For years the CIA used to be synony
mous with buggy and to this day it is 
their consuming, though by no means 
exclusive passion. Each year they take 
great pains to construct the perfect 
machine and traditionally the CIA has 
done well in both the race and design 
competitions. For example, last year 
they finished in 6th place out of 
approximately 20 contestants even 
though a defective wheel part gave way 
halfway through the race.
Buggy vice president and driver, Joanne 
Kovalcik, explained the need for dedicated 
people wheir she mentioned that prepara
tions for this years race are about to begin 
when the contest isnt until spring carnival
continued on page 12

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12TARTANOctober 16, 1979
Politics and Policy Importance of Camp David Spotlight
by Bob Gleeson
As President Carter begins to gear up 
his 1980 election those around him are 
beginning to remind us of all his accom
plishments. Although the purpose of 
this is to raise his standings in the polls, 
they do have a valid point. Carter has 
done some good things. Certainly among 
these is his success in obtaining an Egyptian-Israeli Peace Treaty.
At the time of the Camp David nego
tiations the press played Carter as the 
disinterested impartial mediator who was 
willing to devote his good will and deter
mination to the search for peace. Indeed, 
the President is likely to win this years 
Nobel Peace Prize for his efforts. However, 
Carter has much more to gain from his 
work than increased popularity and 
honors. The Camp David peace talks and 
subsequent treaty have a direct bearing 
on the security of American interests in 
the Middle East.
Until the Iranian Revolution, early in 
1979, the U.S. had protected its vital 
interests in the region by following the 
so-called two pillar policy. This policy 
was aimed at preventing the Soviets from 
posing a military threat to the area by 
forging a military-political relationship 
with Iran and Saudi Arabia. The U.S. en
couraged the Iranians to build a military 
machine which was capable of defending 
Western interests against a Soviet threat. 
This Iranian strength allowed the Saudis 
to feel more secure and thus more willing 
to follow a moderate course in Arab and 
OPEC politics.
The combination of a strong Iran, a 
secure Saudi Arabia, and a strong Israel 
together insured the stability of the region
and protected oil shipping lanes and other 
Western concerns. But this seemingly 
successful policy crumbled quickly.
Events broke rapidly in early 1979. The 
regine of the Shah, considered the most 
stable in the Mid-East, shattered almost 
overnight. At the same time, a revolution 
in Afghanistan put Soviet-backed leaders 
in power. Frightened by this momentum, 
the Saudis hardened their policies and tried 
to find security in the mainstream of Arab 
opinion. Suddenly the two pillar ap
proach was dead.
Friendly Arab states were worried by 
the obvious inability of the UJS. to save 
the Shall. This undermined the basic cred
ibility of American diplomacy in the 
region. Faced with this collapse of policy 
and prestige, Carter quickly had to find a 
new foundation for a Middle Ease policy. 
This new foundation is, in part, the Egyptian-Israeli Peace Treaty.
Starting from the base, the U.S. is build
ing a whole new policy for the area. Our 
diplomacy now seeks to protect our 
interests in yhr Mid-East by building a rela
tionship among Egypt, Israel, Jordan, and 
Saudi Arabia. The combined military, 
political, and economic power of this bloc, 
aligned with the West, would be strong 
enough to resist almost any threat. How
ever it will not be easily accomplished.
Some semblance of a general ArabIsraeli peace will be required for Saudi 
Arabia and Israel to deal with each other. 
Also, Saudi Arabia must again feel mili
tarily secure before it will take the risk. 
The U.S. hopes to accomplish these goals 
by placating the Palestinians, keeping Iran 
neutral, and building up its naval power in 
the Indian Ocean. Thus, with Israel and
Egypt on the west and, possibly, a new 
American fleet in the east, Saudi Arabia 
will be confident enough to break from 
radical Arab opinion and come to terms 
with a new Arab-Israeli military and 
economic development bloc.
This is a very different vision of the 
Middle East than the one to which we have 
become accustomed. Nations of the area 
are moving away from the old Arab-Israel 
struggle. Their main problem today is 
development. The U.S. has a strong interest 
in being a part of that development. Be
cause of our unwillingness to reduce our 
dependence on imported Mid-East energy, 
and the strategic significance of the area, 
the stability of the region must be insured. 
This can best be done by helping the 
nations through the difficult stages of de
veloping societies.
The Camp David talks began a new era 
for U.S. diplomacy in the Middle East. 
Hopefully the new iniative can be kept on 
track.
Job opportunities 
increase
Decreasing enrollments in colleges, 
caused by the end of the baby-boom 
also means fewer newcomers to the 
labor force. A large consulting firm 
that surveyed 360 plants has found 
that 93 percent reported increasing 
turnover rates and 70 percent had to 
lower standards in order to fill open
ings. That also means jobs in many 
areas are getting easier to find.
continued from page 1?
in April. Afterall, there are push teams to 
organize and practice races to attend.
Since public roads must be barricaded 
for these trial heats Joanne and her hardy 
crew will be up at dawn on Sunday morn
ings pushing their buggy and plotting 
strategy all throughout the winter. New 
modifications and designs are constantly 
being worked out in the secrecy of their 
small buggy room and this years model 
promises to uphold CIAs winning ways.
The CIA has been in continuous exis
tence since 1971 when it was originally 
fpunded as one of the few independent (i. 
e. non-frat) buggy racing groups. The last 
few years have seen a marked trend to
wards the students at large.
President Sita has expressed satisfaction 
that the transition has been going so 
smoothly as sharply increased membership 
this year attests. And even greater effort 
towards diversification is in the works, 
especially in the area of intramurals. For 
example, CIA fielded its first Co-rec 
volleyball team this year and plans to 
organize numerous others.
One limiting factor so far has been the 
lack of an office and telephone. Though 
Dean Swank is sympathetic to their plight 
so far no space has been made available. 
With 130 members CIA is about the 
largest Student Senate recognized body on 
campus without an office.
Anyone interested in joining is invited 
to attend one of the approximately bi
weekly meetings held on Mondays at 
8:00 PM in the Morewood Rec. Room. 
The next meeting is on October 29.
5SSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSS
A3. LECTURES PRESENTS
tJOHN DEAN
TUESDAY OCTOBER 23 SKIB0 BALLROOM SOOtxm. 
50/C.MU ID, f LOO Staff at SklboInfaDesk Wed.0ct.17 
OneticketperlD Must have IDatdoor
The TARTAN wishes everyone a happy October Break. Look for the next issue of the TARTAN on October 30,1979.^S$22^2&S$2282S3

---------------------------------------------------

1979 
BENJAMIN F. FAIRLESS LECTURES
SKIBO BALLROOM, 5:30 P.M. 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 24
CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITY
Power and Accountability: The Changing Role of the
Corporate Board of Directors
Speakers: Harold M. Williams
Chairman, Securities and Exchange 
Commission
Irving S. Shapiro
Chairman of the Board
E.l. du Pont de Nemours & Company
FREE TICKETS AVAILABLE AT 
CMU PUBLIC RELATIONS OFFICE, 
BAKER HALL 160, x2900

---------------------------------------------------

CMU talks about
Jane Fonda
I feel that Jane Fonda was putting down 
advanced technology, and thats what 
were all here for. If I believed in what she 
said, I wouldnt go to school at CMU. 
_____ Doreen Cavallo ChemE 82
From my own personal experience with 
what Jane Fonda is saying, I think she has 
a lot of interesting ideas, but she doesnt 
really know what shes talking about. In 
other words, shes mouthing off. I think 
she should look into alternate sources 
without just bitching; propose other ways 
of solving the problem that shes com
plaining about. One of the things I think 
most people disliked about the lecture was 
that she seemed to be honking her own 
horn. I also happen to think that shes an 
incredible actress.
Charles Strange Drama ^2
I think its good that she takes an interest 
in whats going on. Shes attempting to 
make changes in the political structure we 
have now using the influence that she has 
as an actress. I think thats O.K. I also 
think she tends to go overboard at times in 
what she feels, but her motivations are 
good, and she cares about people that 
arent very well off. In specific issues, I 
dont agree with her a lot, but her inten
tions are good.
Charles Carrol Math 77
It was good the way Jane Fonda talked 
up solar energy, as opposed to cutting 
down nuclear energy, and I think Tom 
Hayden had a lot to say. She got a little 
emotional, but shes an actress, and you 
have to expect that. Shes a dynamic 
speaker, and she was prepared. Basically, I 
think shes great!
Mindy Schwartz Psych 82
I think Jane Fonda represents the ideal 
woman. Shes her own person, and shes 
got the most beautiful blue eyes Ive ever 
seen. If Im forty and look like that, then 
thats all I want from life.
Mary Jo Lusnak ChemE 82
TgcS cATK
To learn more about the F-16 and our other 
advanced high-technology programs, contact 
your Placement Office and schedule an 
interview appointment. Or, send your resume 
to: Corporate Director, College Relations, 
GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION, CN19 
Pierre Laclede Center, St. Louis, MO 63105.
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F
The F-16. A vital part of the free worlds air 
defense capabilities and one of many exciting 
high-technology programs at General 
Dynamics. These long range projects at our 15 
operating divisions across the country will 
provide you diverse career paths in 
Telecommunications, Electronics, Data 
Products, Shipbuilding, Aircraft, Tactical 
Weaponry and many other fields.
Page 14T ART AN October 16, S79

---------------------------------------------------

October 16, 1979-TARTAN-Page 15
Contrary Tales
VJtMEET THREE. TIMES AUEEK 
SOMETERE ON m CUT. YOUR 
REQUIRED TEXT IS A'XrlCftUD UAS' 
FRISBEE j OR ifS EQUIVALENT. 
COLOR IS OPTIONAL.
GOOD MORNING, I'M I 
PROFESSOR BIHKLEY, WO 
THIS IS'tWTlCTD FR\SBKft"
LETSSEE. 91-666 
"INTRO TO FRISBEE 'A"
LET'S FACE IT. HOW CMO 
YOU EXPECT TO COMPLETE 
FOUR YEARS ftT CMU 
VHTHOUT LEARNING TO THROW) A FR1SBEE?
YOU UIILL BE DEVIDED UP 
INTO LAB GROUPS OF TWO, 
AND VIILL ALTERNATE AS 
THROWERS' AND 'RECEIVERS 
WHILE* THROWERS' LEARN NEW 
THROWS/RECEIVERS Will 
LEARN TO CATCH THE FRISBEE 
AFTER BOUMEIN6 rt OFF OF 
VARIOUS PfKT OF HIS OR 
. HER AWATOW. T
ill BE OK) THE CUT; OR 
IN SCHENLei'PARKwWHERE IM -ACHlNfe^P R06LEMS OOG&INMiP
ALEEG HNY ,WSLI up. WTO CHNY
HUNt UP ON 50ME.1H\W&,FTEEL
free to ''CATCH me after 
\ ciass. y
rSHecivi 6lAEu i\MKO 0-PROP FOW SOf^e WHERt L fj *.*-.
Visit the Art Carved Representative This Weekm
 Buy Now and Save on Selected Traditional and 
Contemporary Rings.
 See our Wide Variety of New Styles.
" HctlB____CAT^
Truth Squad' follows Fonda
continued from page 1
things Miss Fonda has been saying.
Fonda said that the movie China Syn
drome predicted fact by fact what actual
ly occurred a year later at Three Mile Is 
land (TMI). Keifer responded to this 
satatment saying,Miss Fonda is misled 
if she thinks China Syndrome represents 
TMI. She pointed out that the movie 
may have been suspenseful and dramatic, 
but that it was not an accurate description 
of a real nuclear emergency. The film 
Keifer said, mixed parts of two different 
types of reactors.
Another of Fondas points Kiefer 
disagreed with was that of the disposal 
of nuclear waste. Although Fonda said 
there are no known methods for safe 
disposal, Keifer said that methods are 
known. She blamed the Department of 
Energy for not putting these methods 
into a comprehensive program of nuclear 
waste disposal.
Keifer also called Fondes comparison 
of TMI with St. George, Utah, a great dis
service to the people of Harrisburgh.
From 1951 to 1962, the government 
conducted above-ground atom bomb tests 
in St. George. Because of the governments 
failure to warn inhabitants of fallout 
dangers and appropriate precautions, 550 
persons now have suits pending against the 
Department of Energy. Keifer character
ized the amount of escaped radiation at 
TMI as miniscule. She (Fonda) should 
know that health experts have said that 
there may be only one additional cancer 
death in the next 20 years from the levels 
of radiation released at TMI.
In response to a question concerning the 
real safety of nuclear power plants, Draper 
replied, I will be surprised if there isnt 
public fatality in connection with a nuclear 
piant, but I will be more suprised if this 
number of public fatalities matched that 
of public fatalities resulting from alternate 
energy sources. Both speakers agreed that 
the nuclear system is not perfect, but it is 
as safe as its alternatives.
Draper and Keiper are being sponsored 
by the Edison Electric Institute, which is 
an association of electric companies.
Men's Contemporary
Women's Fashion
symbolizing your ability to achieve
October 24, 25, 26 10 A.M. - 4 P.M. 
Baker Hall, Bookstore
emu bookstore* A
Deposit rsquired. MasterCharge or Visa accepted.
Supplier for the 1980 
United States Olympic Team
First Federal Savings of Pittsburgh announces the opening of their 
newest branch office in the old Webster Hall Hotel, 4415 Fifth 
Avenue. 
We hope youll drop in any time from Monday, Oct. 15 through Friday, Oct 19. The new First Federal Savings office is open 9:00 a.m. 
to 4:30 p.m. Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. Friday 
were open from 9:00 a,m. to 6:00 p.m. 
Come in and help us celebrate during our Grand Opening Week.
CLOSE TO HOME
FIRST FEDERAL SAVINGS
MEMBER FSLIC PITTSBURGH
Webster Hall 4415 Fifth Avenue 621-3411
ui

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

1 J ' ?y Y:'-
Homecoming 1979 was a time of joy, pride and excitement for CMU, as 
students and alumni joined together to root for the Tartans. Televised 
for the first time; the unbeaten PAC champions rolled to a 32 to 7 victory 
over the W& j Presidents. To add to the Homecoming excitement was the 
naming of Molly McCloskey as Miss Varsity and Delta Upsilon as the winner 
of the float competition. And finally, to top off the Homecoming weekend, 
there were various formal dances and parties, including the Homecoming 
concert by Blood, Sweat, and Tears, to celebrate class reunions and the 
Tartan victory.
Photos by Jenny Ladd and Robert Zusman

---------------------------------------------------

its yourmove
Top talent always makes the right move, 
and so does TRW. Every facet of what 
we are doing Is on the cutting edge of 
now and the future...tuned into the 
wavelengths of the farthermost reaches 
beyond. If you feel your career is in 
check position, think hard...then make 
your move. Because, at TRW, we are 
looking for top engineering talent with 
that intuitive quality of mind who are 
capable of making the synaptical leap 
into the future. There is space for you 
among your peers and lots of head 
room. Think about it. The point of power 
is acting now! Its your move!
COMPUTER SCIENCES
BS, MS, PhDAt TRW, we have one of the most 
advanced high technology facilities in 
the world. Our products, from the 
smallest micro circuit to the largest 
satellite, are designed by the top notch 
teams of professionals...with a growing 
need for bright young people like you 
who can contribute new ideas and 
concepts. We are diversified enough for 
you to build a sound career and grow 
professionally as your responsibilities 
and contributions increase.WE WILL BE INTERVIEWING 
ON CAMPUS... 
NOVEMBER 1-2
Consider carefully your career goals, 
then consider a company called TRW.
For the following disciplinesREMEMBER...top professionals are 
known by the company they keep. 
Especially when the company is called 
TRW, an equal opportunity employer 
offering excellent salaries and an 
outstanding Flexible Benefits Plan.
ENGINEERING
AERONAUTICAL
CIVIL
ELECTRICAL
ELECTRONICS
MECHANICAL
MATHEMATICS
PHYSICS
If you would like TRW to know about 
you, come by and see us when were 
on campus or send us your resume:
MANAGER OF COLLEGE RELATIONS 
R5/B180, CMU-10/16, 23 
ONE SPACE PARK 
REDONDO BEACH, CA 90278
BSP' AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
DEFENSE AND SPACE SYSTEMS GROUP

---------------------------------------------------

entertainment
CMU Drama opener Thursday
by Paul L. Kravits
Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are 
Dead, will be the first production of 
Carnegie Mellon Universitys Drama De
partment for the 1979-80 theatrical season. 
It will be presented in Kresge Theatre and 
will run from October 18 to 27.
Professor Michael Pierce is directing the 
play, and it is one he is very familar with, 
having acted in it earlier. Professor Pierce 
earned his Master of Fine Arts in Drama 
from Yale University in 1964, and directed 
the Drama Departments production of 
Misalliance last year, and received excellent 
reviews.
Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead 
was written by Tom Stoppard, and this 
play easily fits the idea of Theatre of the
Absurd. Parts of the play present parodies 
of many of Shakespeares works in a some
times humorous and always interesting 
manner.
The Drama Departments production of 
Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead 
should provide a surprising and enjoyable 
sojurn into absurdist theatre, and I would 
strongly advise the Carnegie-Mellon Univer
sity population to attend.
Tickets are available at the Box Office 
(next to the Kresge Theatre entrance in the 
Fine Arts Building).
Performance times are 8:15 PM Thurs
day, October 18 through Saturday, Oct. 
27. In addition, Saturday matinees are at 
2:00 PM, and on Sunday, October 21, 
there will be no performance.
B.O.C. rocks with hot guitar
by Alan Spero
The Blue Oyster Cult gave a dynamic, 
well-staged concert at the Civic Arena Fri
day night , October 5th, although their 
famed laser-light show was not to be seen.
The Cult were last here a year ago 
September at the considerably smaller 
Stanley Theatre. At that performance they 
used an abundance of laser-light special 
effects to highlight their show and were re
puted to be the heaviest users of lasers in 
the world of live rock. But that was before 
the government decided to crack down on 
the widespread use of lasers at rock con
certs because of reported possibility of an 
audience member being blinded by them. 
So B.O.C. cut all the lasers and supplmented them with glitter balls, multicoloured 
spotlights, and lots of flashy fireworks.
But even without the effects, Blue 
Oyster Cult put on a good, solid two hour 
performance, picking a wide variety of 
material that ranged from Cities On 
Flame With Rock and Roll from their 
first album to four cuts off of their newest 
release,Ai/m?rs,all displaying lead guitarist/ 
vocalist Donald (Buck Dharma) Roesers 
high-powered guitar pyrotechnics.
The Cult opened with Dominance and 
Submission from Secret Treaties, with 
Eric Bloom on lead vocal, Roeser on guitar, 
Allen Lanier on keyboards, Joe Bouchard 
on bass, and Albert Bouchard on drums. 
Throughout the show, Lanier switched 
back and forth from keyboards to guitar, 
while Bloom played guitar on and off, de
pending on how much singing he was 
doing. Although Bloom handles most of 
the lead vocal work, it is Roeser whose 
'voice,has the soft, smooth, ghostly sound 
which is featured in lead vocals during 
(Dont Fear) The Reaper. Near the end 
of the show, the group did their traditional 
version of the Steppenwolf classic Born 
to Be Wild, with all five band members, 
drummer included, playing guitar. The 
amazing thing was that you could hear 
each guitaj distinctly, and I think the good 
sound mix that the Cult achieved improved 
the show one hundred percent, even 
though they were incredibly loud.
Of course the album that had the most 
material taken from it was their latest, 
Mirrors. Dr. Music and The Great Sun 
Jester were done pretty much as on the 
record , except that the vocals sometimes
Blood, Sweat, and Tears performed at the Homecoming Concert last Sunday night in the 
CMU Gymnasium.
echoed into obscurity on the latter. The 
title cut provided one of the highlights of 
the evening. Each guitar was layered on top 
of each other at a perfect volume so all 
could be heard and enjoyed without im
mense and obnoxious feedback. The ef
fect was a sound quality Ive not 
experience at a concert in a long time. 
The Vigil, the best track from the new 
album, provided another highlight to the 
show, as Roesers guitar sped through a 
multitude of styles and sound.
The more recent favorites like 
Godzilla, E.T.I., and (Dont Fear) 
The Reaper were given adequate treat
ment. The Reaper was the only encore 
and unfortunately it did not come across 
very well at the Civic Arena. The mesh of 
the guitars was too loud and not as clear as 
it was earlier in the evening; most of the 
s5loing was lost in the din. The best 
performed number of the night was Cities 
On Flame With Rock and Roll. The 
energy the band- worked up to made the 
song rock out much more than on record. 
Roesers final lightning-fast, boogie-blues 
eT8dt cooked better than ever and the
packed arena crowd responded appropri
ately. Even without their demonic image or 
their laser-light show, the Blue Oyster Cult 
still presented a hot and entertaining eve
ning of guitar-oriented rock and roll.
Rainbow, Featuring Ritchie Blackmore 
on guitar, put on a fine fifty minute open
ing set of heavy-weight rock , with some 
nice lead work by Ritchie and Cozy Powell 
on drums. Their show consisted of only 
five songs with no encore. The song selec
tion contained four cuts from their newest 
album.J)own To Earth, the best one being 
Loves No Friend of Mine, wherein lead 
singer, Graham Bonnet played off Blackmores guitar solos with note for note pre
cision. They finished the set with their hit 
from last year, Long Live Rock and 
Roll, but the crowd was disappointed 
with the omission of Man On the Silver 
Mountain, at least thats why I think 
they were booing at the end. Or could it 
have been that they played the entire Judy 
Garland version of Somewhere Over the 
Rainbow after their show that upset 
everyone?
Billy Hayes has criticisms for Midnight Express
Focus on Film is a service of 
FOCUS - Films of college and Uni
versity Students  a national filmmaking, film study, sere enwri ting 
and producing competition presen
ted by Nissan Motor Corporation, makers 
of Datsun cars and trucks. FOCUS is hon
ored to have the support of many promi
nent members of the. film industry, who 
join us in recognizing new talent on cam
pus. Members of the FOCUS 80 Board of 
Governors include John Avildsen, Ingmar 
Bergtnan, Allan Carr, Chevy Chase, Judith 
Crist, Milos Forman, Norman Lear, Jack 
Lemmon, Sidney Lumet, Gene Roddenberrv, Herbert Ross, George C. Scott, Neil Si
mon, Steven Spielberg, Francois Truffaut, 
Liv Ullmann, Orson Welles, and many 
others.
by Steve Warren
 In the opening scene of Mid
night Express Bill Hayes (Brad Davis)stands 
in an Istanbul hotel room stripped to his 
jockey shorts, taping foil-wrapped bricks 
of hashish to his torso.
What is wrong with this picture? I 
dont wear any underpants, the real Billy 
Hayes laughs.
Scene Two: Istanbul Airport. A perspir
ing Billy Hayes is going through customs, 
shaking all the way. Of course theyd have 
spotted me if Id acted like that, Hayes 
says; I was actually even more nervous on 
the inside but 1 didnt show it.
Outwardly completely recovered from 
his five-year ordeal in Turkish prisons,
Hayes was in Atlanta as part of a publicity 
blitz for three Midnight Expresses - the 
paperback edition of Hayes book about 
his experiences, the Columbia film version 
and the soundtrack album. There are vast 
differences in the facts as presented in the 
book and movie; but long talks with dir
ector Alan Parker have made Hayes 
accepting of them, even if he doesnt al
ways understand the reason for them.
I missed the rowboat, he says, refer
ring to the craft in which he made his 
escape from Imrali island, and I loved 
the movie.
To show the whole escape as it 
happened, Hayes continues, would have 
changed the focus on the picture. It would 
have taken half an hour and would have 
meant leaving out half an hour of some
thing else.
Had he not liked the way the movie 
turned out, Hayes contract gave him only 
one option: I had no control of contents 
other than if I didnt like the film I could 
take my name off the credits at the end. 
His long years of suffering have left 
Hayes highly opinionated about drugs and 
other illegal substances, and the laws which 
regulate them. He still smokes grass, he 
says, but Im careful not to get caught 
now. . .Im not saying you should smoke or 
not. . .Do what you like but know what 
youre doing. In most European coun
tries, he points out, you can spend two to 
three years in prison for the possession of 
one joint. Im for decriminalization, Ive
made speeches about it; but over there 
they dont want to hear about decriminal
ization.
What upsets Hayes most is the inequity 
of a system that can imprision people for 
years over a little marijuana while letting 
large scale heroin operations go on 
In Turkey, he says, people were getting
c/5PoOtu<*->o>,
oJSUEM
Billy Hayes lecturing at Post
lighter sentences for murder than we got 
for hash!
If Id been smuggling tobacco it would 
have been morally worse, says the young 
man who both started and stopped 
smoking cigarettes in Sagmalcilar Prison. 
He calls tobacco and alcohol horrendous
drugs, but saves his strongest attacks for 
heroin: Im so down on heroin. Ive 
watched so many of my friends fade 
away - it sucks the soul out of you. 
Sometimes Hayes gets downright 
preachy, sounding like the U.S. govern
ments advertising campaign to warn young 
travelers about foreign drug laws. If you 
get in for drugs youre in for the hassle of 
your life, he quotes, adding that the 
campaign started after his sentence was 
changed: I broke the record. Fifteen years 
had been the longest sentence (an Amer
ican abroad had been given for drugs) 
until they raised mine to 30.
Before starting his promotional tour 
Hayes was summoned to Washington for a 
State Department briefing-by die same 
man, he says, whos been negotiating with 
Turkey for a prisioner exchange treaty. 
Those talks, as an epilogue proclaims, 
began a few weeks after the first public 
showing of Midnight Express at the Cannes 
Film Festival. The briefing consisted of 
facts and statistics concerning things Hayes 
would be discussing: There are 2500 
Americans in jail overseas. The greatest 
number are from New York. Most of them 
are young. ..
Though he doesnt recommend the 
course for anyone else, Hayes says that 
prison taught him a lot: When you dont 
have a choice you find out a lot of things 
about yourself. . .1 was really a lot stronger 
in a lot of ways than I knew about. I was 
also weaker in a lot of ways.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20-TARTAN-October 16, 1979
I work for exceptional people...
Mister Roberts is exceptionally entertaining show
Joe
Mauti
... my clients. And I like to think I perform 
exceptionally well for them  when it comes to 
things like generating funds for a college edu
cation, or finding applicable tax advantages, or 
setting up an effective employee benefit pro
gram. Yes, Im a professional life insurance 
underwriter and proud of it. And if youre the 
least bit skeptical about what a tremendously 
flexible financial tool life insurance really is, 
you ought to get in touch.
Get the most out of life with
SZEYLLER JH PROVIDENT 
ASSOCIATES m  MUTUAL
STATE COLLEGE PA (Si4) 23 0544 LlfE INSURANCE COMPANY
PITTSBURGH PA (412) S24-0422 <' ^ Of PHILADELPHIA
24 cid*r Way State College PA 16001 
400 ^nn Center Boulevard Pittsburgh PA 15235
by David Sheward
Most know of Mister Roberts as a vastly 
entertaining movie with Henry Fonda in 
the title role and Jimmy Cagney and Jack 
Lemmon supporting him. Our knowledge 
of Mister Roberts does not go beyond its 
repeat showings on the Saturday afternoon 
movies. Most dont remember that 
Roberts started life as a novel by Thomas 
Heggen and then with the aid of Joshua 
Logan became a play which was one of 
Broadways longest running hits. The 
current production of Roberts at the 
Pittsburgh Public Theatre gives ample 
evidence for the plays popularity.
Messrs. Heggen and Logan managed to 
pull a theatrical rabbit out of a hat with 
this one. The plot concerns an officers 
efforts to get off a cargo ship during the 
last days of World War Two. As a back
ground, the crew of the ship is striving just 
as mightily as the officer, the title char
acter to fend off boredom. The play
wrights shifted the focus of action from 
frustration and boredom to amusing and 
sometimes hysterical improvisations to 
avoid these two evils and the crews special 
relationship with Roberts. Thus, Mister 
Roberts is not strictly speaking a war play 
but an examination of men in stressful 
situations and a portrait of a very likable 
guy.
The reclining ENSIGN PULVER (Steve Simpson) listens to some good-natured criticism of his slovenly habits from LT. DOUG ROBERTS (Larry Pine) 
(left) and DOC (John Newton) in Pittsburgh Public Theater's production of the Thomas Heggen/Joshua Logan comedy, MISTER ROBERTS, being 
performed now through November 4 at the Allegheny Theater.
role performance. Pine does not evoke 
images of Fonda, with whom the role is 
most identified. If anyone, I was reminded 
of Jason Robards, as good an example of 
quiet strength and dignity.
Exceptional performances were also giv
en by John Carpenter as the tyrannical
S 
/
ships captain, Steve Simpson as the per
petual loafer Ensign Pulver, complete with 
fan and portable bar attached to his bunk, 
and John Newton as the ships human
itarian doctor. Pat McNamara, Paul Guskin, Tom Spillar, Preston Bickler, Dan 
Lutzky and Gary McGurk ably portray 
the ships crew wiht affecting respect for 
Roberts and sneering contempt for the 
Captain.
With the aid of set designer Steven Rub
in and lightning designer Ron Wallace, Di
rector John Going has managed to success
fully make use of the challenging Alleghe
ny theatre space. Faced on both sides with
three tiers of audience, the Allegheny stage 
is extremely long and not very wide, this 
is a perfect space for a navy cargo ship. 
Wallaces lighting set the right tone for ev
ery scene, particularly the final one when a 
beautiful sunset is achieved. Singrid Insulls costumes are perfect replicas of the 
navy khaki of the period.
Mister Roberts is a rousing start to the 
Public fifth season, in all departments. Stu
dent subscriptions are available to the Pu
blics entire season of five plays at 20% off 
listed price for Section C for Sunday, Tues
day, Wednesday, or Thursday evenings or 
any matinee. Call 323-1900 for details.
HAIRCUTS , COLORING PERMANENTS
(Wash-Cut-Blow)
I 100 237 Atwood Street O C 00
II ------Pittsburgh. Pa. 13213 **
687-3500
The playwrights have created in Mister 
Roberts (the character), a most memor
able stage hero. Unlike other wartime 
heroes, usually played in the movies by 
John Wayne, Roberts is not physically 
imposing, totally emotionless or appar
ently authoritarian. Hes quiet, generous 
and not afraid to choke up when his men 
present him with a preposterous but lov
ingly made medal. Larry Pine perfectly 
embodies all these qualities in his title
Mon. Tues. Wed. 10-7 
Thurs. Fri. 10-9
Sot. 9-4 UNISEX HAIR SALON No Appointments
photo courtesy of Weinhold/Adam, THE DARKROOM

---------------------------------------------------

If youre going to graduate next Spring 
and will earn an engineering or chemistry degree, 
we can offer you a satisfying climb 
to success in technical sales.
Sign up at your placement office 
for an interview 
October 31
Nalco Chemical Company
Registeied Trademarks of Nalco Chemical Compar
Octfeer 16. 1979-TARTAN-Page 21
WOMENMEN
Permanent Removal of Unwanted Hair 
CALL JANE GOLOMB MAIZLECH 
Professional Electrologist 
(412) 687-3993
3347 Forbes Avenue 
Forbes-Oakland Building
Suite 100 B 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
John Klemmer's new double album is red hot sax
Billie Holidays God Bless the Child 
uses the bass most effectively as the tenor 
lays down the blusiest lines in the album 
on top of it. This is my favorite one on the 
album and it ends with a substantial bass 
solo. The last song on the first record, My 
One and Only Love, is mainly a showcase 
for Magnussons bass. He may not have the 
speediest chops around but the choice
DavidNaimecounted
Vwre counting on you.
A Public Service of this RM newspaper & The Advertising Council
When David had open heart surgery not long 
ago, he needed six vital units of blood, type O Neg. 
All of it was obtained, processed and provided 
by the Red Cross blood center.
We re not the heroes of 
this lifesaving story (the six wonderful blood donors should get the 
medals). But we (and other voluntary blood cen
ters) do need your continued support Blood, you know, doesn't grow on 
trees. It comes from donors. Like you. And we need more people like 
you. Call your Red Cross or other voluntary blood 
center soon. Please.
by Nax Paul Mendler
Tenor saxophonist, John Klemmers 
new double album, Nexus, with Bob MagnusSbn on bass and Carl Burnett on drums, 
is one of the meanest blowing sessions to 
come out this year. John Klemmer takes 
the trio format on sides 1 & 2 and the duo 
format on 3 & 4 and effectively showcases 
his chops. No one can argue with this al
bum.
John has played in piano-less trios a 
long time ago in Chicago and revels in the 
interplay it permits. On the opening track, 
Misty (dont worry - you wont feel like 
you are at a wedding reception),. John 
keeps the melody in sight as bassist Magnusson plays rumbling tremolos and Carl 
Burnett offers up cymbal crashes. Right 
from the beginning the question of the sax 
being able to keep up harmonic interest is 
answered and with authority. Unfortunate
ly this is as flashy as Bobs chops will get 
and John doesnt totally explode until the 
bass is left behind for the last two sides.
Mr P.C. is done sans acous
tic bass and is the first uptempo number 
on the album. Johns tenor shows how well 
Traned he is as he blows the loose brass 
pieces on his horn in this long snaking 
journey. Carl fills in all the empty spaces 
with his own brand of polyrhythms in this 
riff-like blues number.
Art on show
by Cheryl GoodmanDoug Urbank and Greg Karcz, senior art 
majors, opened a unique show in the 
Forbes Street Gallery last week to a very 
pleased and appreciative crowd. The 
exhibit featured portrait drawings by 
Urbank, and still-life photographs and 
modern sculpture by Karcz.
Urbank employs a very interesting 
sketchy quality which tends to create a 
quiet, melancholy mood in his work. Most 
of his drawings are self-portraits drawn 
from various angles depicting different 
moods. Unfortunately, the uniformity of 
feeling detracts from many of his pieces.
Greg Karczs photography depicting 
daily life subjects is in tune with the sad 
air of Urbanks work. A few of the photos 
such as Gasboy, use that air to create a 
somewhat nostalgic image. Its high con
trast and simple composition help a viewer 
visualize even more than whats actually 
there.
Whether planned or not, the entire 
black and white show did not work as well 
as it could have, partly the fault of the 
gallery itself. Its neutral decor is somewhat 
depressive. A little color or more extensive 
subject matter may have created a more 
interesting show for the average art viewer.
notes make it bass magic.
If the first record of the set was smoky, 
then the second is pure red hot. Stream
lined to a duo, John and Carl pick up the 
tempo for a tenor tour de force. Impres
sions proves to be its usual two chord top
ographical ocean and Johns modal solo has 
a very nice curve to it. The duo constantly 
exchanges ideas in this short (especially for 
a modal piece) but firey song . Klemmer 
expands his views on one chord wonder
land with the nineteen - and - a - half min
ute Nexus, the only original work on the 
album. Starting with Carl Burnetts drums
and including an exploration of the entire 
sax range, from fog horn honks to near 
strangled screams, this piece represents all 
the group can offer. John builds purpose
fully with chromatic attacks to a climax 
where notes exist to be used as weapons 
and the drum rhythms surge in irresistible 
waves. John blows his brains out on most 
of the tracks but this one shows him in his 
most developed form.
All in all, Nexus is guaranteed not to 
make the trip from the Irrational Record 
Mart to the New this week bin at the 
Graveyard. This ones good.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22-TARTAN-October 16/1979
Fairless lectures slated for Oct. 23
The status of corporate governance in 
the United States is the focus of the 1979 
Benjamin F. Fairless Lectures set for 
Wednesday, October 24, at 5:30 PM in 
the Skibo Ballroom.
Harold M. Williams, Chairman of the 
Securities and Exchange Commission 
(SEC), and Irving S. Shapiro, Chairman 
of the Board of E.I. du Pont de NeMours 
& Company, will discuss Tower and 
Accountability: The Changing Role
of the Corporate Board of Directors. 
The exchange of views will be held before 
an audience of businessmen, university
faculty and students, and the general 
public. The format for the lectures will 
allow each speaker to talk on the subject 
for half an hour, followed by brief rebut
tals and a question and answer session 
with the audience.
Harold Williams has been chairman of 
the SEC since 1977. Prior to joining the 
commission, Williams was president of 
Hunt-Wesson Foods, Inc. from 1964 to 
1968, when he became president of Hunt 
Foods and Industries, Inc.
MacLeods resignation stemmed from 
his aggressive and assertive personality 
which generated friction between he and
the governor, and between he and other 
Cabinet meqibers. Joseph cited personal 
reasons for leaving the Cabinet post. In 
a statement released the next day by his 
departmental press secretary, Joseph said, 
By citing personal reasons, I stated my 
discomfort with what I found to be com
plex and cumbersome procedures of state
Irving Shapiro has been chairman of 
the board and chief executive officer of 
the Du Pont Company, the worlds largest 
chemical firm, since 1974. He came to 
Du Pont in 1951 as an attorney in the 
legal department after serving for eight
* DO YOU HAVE A 
CHEVROLET CHEVETTE THATfe NOT 
ALU CLEANED UP VET?
I WANT HER-TO 
THINK I
OWN IT. "
$1195
U E
200 No-Charge Miles
per (Extra miles 20C each)
daV Chevette or similar.
Available 8:00 a m Friday til 
5.00 p.m. Monday
You pay for gas and return car 
to renting location Rate nondiscountable 
and subject to 
change with
out notice 
Specific cars 
subject to 
availability.
682-1444
4621 Forbes Ave. 
(Hess Exxon)
National Car Rental
We otter S & H Green 
Stamp certificates on 
rentals m all 50 U.S. states
We feature GM cars like this Chevrolet Chevette
years in thte U.S. Department of Justice 
during the Roosevelt and Truman Ad
ministrations.
The Benjamin F. Fairless Memorial 
Lectures, established in honor of the 
former chairman of the U.S. Steel Cor
poration, have been held at CMU since 
1963. Sponsored by the Universitys 
Graduate School of Industrial Admini
stration, the lectures have generally 
focused on some aspect of business or 
public administration, the realtionship 
between business and government, or 
on organized labor.
The lectures are free and open to the 
general public. Admission is through 
tickets which must be reserved in ad
vance by calling the CMU public relations 
office at 578-2900.
Joseph 
resigns post
continued from page 1
government and the environment within 
which my responsibilities had to be carried 
out. He also expressed his dissatisfaction 
with state government to the TARTAN by 
stating, I decided that my experiences 
concerning my role could not be met be
cause of government circumstances and 
procedures...
Joseph also said he was extremely 
gratified by the position the University 
took in terms of me as a professor and 
member of the campus community. 
He especially praised President Richard 
Cyert for giving him advice and substan
tial support through a very difficult 
time.
He hopes to make an even greater con
tribution to students as a result of his 
experience as a Cabinet member. I am 
also going to think through (my teaching 
methods) to determine ways I havent 
used in the past of working with students.
GSIA Dean Robert Kaplan said that 
Joseph will possibly have a somewhat 
broader role in the university. We will be 
happy to have him (Joseph) back, and 
want whats best for him.
There are easier ways to pay for college.
Conducting telethons, waiting tables or 
parking cars may not be the only ways to 
help you pay for college There may be a 
scholarship or grant available that you ve 
overlooked Or it may be as simple as cutting 
back on expenses. Read the next issue of 
Insider and find out.
Ford hopes this next issue of Insider will 
give you a better idea' for paying your way
through college. And if you need a set of 
wheels to get you around campus, check out 
the sporty Fords for the 80 s Look for Insider-* Fntfi continuing series of Cot ley newspaper supplements.
FORD
FORD DIVISION

---------------------------------------------------

October 16, 1979-TARTAN-Page 23
Fonda-Hayden tour comes to CMU
continued from page 1
He stated that we must be concerned 
not only about our economic future, but 
also about the whole human future. 
He pointed out that if nuclear power 
plants had been built in the time of Julius 
Caesar, we would still be wondering what 
to do with the plutonium today.
He reasoned that politicians, special in
terest groups, and multi-national corpo
rations cannot be trusted to make de
cisions which may have long term effects 
because the unborn are not a constituen
cy. Hayden stressed, that unless all of us 
examine the future, in terms of what 
kinds of problems we are sowing in the 
present...we will have committed an act of 
carelessness and moral irresponsibility that 
we will eventually feel the consequences 
of... Its in that spirit that we have begun 
to try to create a dialogue.
Concluding the first part of the presen
tation, Hayden commented on solving the 
problems of inflation and the energy crisis. 
He said, Our basic thought is, that in the 
face of these bankrupt set of doctrines that 
isnt getting us anywhere, we have to turn 
to people, not to experts alone.
Fonda, dressed casually in slacks, a cowl 
and brown suede blazer, spoke next. Ob
serving that the people in the audience ap
peared to be much better off than most 
people in this country, she commented 
that there are class reasons and economic 
reasons why some of their message might 
not seem as serious to the CMU communi
ty, as it might to others.
Our message is not that you shouldnt 
work for corporations or that theres any
thing inherently wrong with business or 
profits or the desire to do well in life, 
Fonda explained. The problem is, she 
continued, that several hundred huge 
multinational corporations have monopo
lized the basic necessities of life-housing, 
energy, food, and health care - which 
means that most of the people in this 
country are having a hard time getting 
what they need.
Next, she discussed problems of the 
American consumer and workforce; 
essentially, she claimed that citizens are 
not included in the decision-making pro
cesses which affect their daily lives.
She tied in what she saw as an increa
sing feeling of despair among the Amer
ican people, with her new movie, 9 to 5, 
a comedy about office workers who fan
tasize about murdering their boss. Fonda 
spoke strongly for womens rights, saying, 
Women work because they have to.
She continued, in an emotional tone, by 
describing dont-rock-the-boat type of 
people she and Hayden had met at Love 
Canal, a community that was once a chem
ical dump owned by Hooker Chemical, 
and in Harrisburg, a city near the Three 
Mile Island nuclear facility. She said, at 
those places and throughout America, 
the message was, We feel expendable.
The activist struck out at government 
by citing that,We discovered that the man 
in charge of civilian evacuation for Three 
Mile Island was the commander at the ^ 
ditch in My Lai.
Fonda drew together some of her re
marks with a discussion about the people 
who fdrmulated the Vietnam policy and 
where they are today: When the war was 
lost, these guys didnt retire. They now 
work for the Carter administration, and 
have taken over the Department of 
Energy.
Hayden returned to the podium with a 
graph and slide presentation. He said, if 
energy is the center of the problem, and 
causes the other problems to become 
worse, then its with energy that we have 
to begin to find an alternative. He stated 
that, Its no secret of course that Jane
and I are critics of nuclear power. We 
didnt come here to go through a moral 
criticism alone, but simply to express our 
feelings that nuclear power really has a 
declining future in America, whatever your 
point of view on its morality. Hayden re
ferred to statistics which indicated that 
nuclear power makes up less than 4% of 
Pennsylvanias total energy consumption. 
He postulated that if we cant overcome 
a dependency of that minor a magnitude, 
we dont have .many possibilities (for a 
solution-ed.) anyway.
He went on to say that the most real 
alternative energy resource is energy 
conservation. As he sees it, the problem in 
implementing conservation policies is that 
we have come through a century of 
belief in cheap energy, and have set up a 
structure of rewards and penalties that 
allows people to profit from waste. 
Hayden, Chairman of the California SolarGal Council, cited solar energy as the next 
most important alternative energy source; 
Solar is the American past and is the 
American future.
Fonda returned to close the lecture. 
She told students, aiming her message at 
business and management majors, that we 
can all alter our values and have them man
ifested in the way we work. She went on 
to say that while in school, students have 
only a responsibility to. yourselves . . . you 
have an opportunity to study these issues, 
to debate them.
She added that, It is absolutely neces
sary for us to begin to build a citizens 
movement in this country that will create 
a counterveiling force on these election 
issues. She concluded the lecture by 
wishing the audience a lot of courage. 
At this point, Hayden stepped down 
from stage and handed out copies of the 
CED News which he claimed he was for
bidden to give out because the school 
didnt support that kind of political 
^ction. He said, If you want to obey 
like a good toad, dont take one. The
TARTAN asked Earle Swank, Dean of 
Student Affairs, about the administrations 
action and he said that he was directly re
sponsible for the ruling. We contracted 
for a lecture. We did not contract for 
somebody to make a political pitch to 
students.
Although Hayden and Fonda refused 
to entertain questions from the TARTAN, 
queries from the audience at large con
cerning a wide variety of topics took the 
final half-hour of the event.
DONT MISS TALKING 
TO THE HUGHES 
RECRUITER VISITING 
YOUR CAMPUS SOON.
Contact your placement office 
for interview dates.
: HUGHES :i IL_______________________I
Creating a new world with electronics
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER M/F
Campus InterviewsTI in Attleboro, MA,
-----------;-----------------What You Need -
You should have a BS or MS degree in one of the following: 
Electrical Engineering ^ Mechanical Engineering
Metallurgical Engineering Engineering Mechanics
Materials Science Plastics Engineering
industrial Engineering
Engineering Physics 
Ceramics Engineering 
Computer Science
-------------------------------What We Do-------------------------------
The Metallurgical Materials Division has the unique ability to fabricate clad metals 
and has pioneered in the application of these layered materials which offer properties not 
available in single metals or alloys. Products range from corrosion-inhibiting trim for 
automobiles to precision parts for integrated circuits and electrical connectors.
The Control Products Division adds value to Tl's clad metals and semiconductor 
businesses by employing both kinds of products in a wide range of electro-mechanical and 
electronic controls. These controls include motor protectors, relay precision switches, 
circuit breakers, automotive choke controls, and wide range of specialty products.
---------------------------Areas of Activity----------------------------
Sales (Technical)
Manufacturing Engineering 
Management Information System 
Solid-state Controls 
R&D
Purchasing
Manufacturing Supervision 
Electro-mechanical Design 
Marketing' (Technical)
Industrial Tech Services 
Quality Assurance 
Electronic Design
Production Material Control 
Thermal Systems 
Special Metals 
Product Design
Metallurgical Process Engineering .
Electronic Circuit Design
Test Equipment Design
Design Automation
Software and Hardware Development
Digital/Analog Design
Mechanical Packaging
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS November 1
If unable to interview at this time, send your resume in confidence to: Mike 
Smith/34 Forest, M.S. 12-3/Attleboro, MA 02703.
(umle 80eN4bou0Ne
INCORPORATED
An equal opportunity employer M/F

---------------------------------------------------

IvBARCI IF7TTI '
Shoes, Accessories. Peter Barton Sportswear, Joan & David Salon 
The Bank Center

---------------------------------------------------

TV audience sees Tartans crush W&J, 32-7
 *
by Reggie Skibo
The powerful Tartans of CMU kept 
their win streak alive by smashing W&J, 
32-7 in the first CMU football game ever 
televised. It was the sixth consecutive 
victory for the Tartans and fourth con
ference win. They own sole possession of 
first place and will look for win number 
even next Saturday at Allegheny College.
Once again the defense held their 
opponents to minimal yardage, allowing 
only 21 yards on the ground, and a 
measely 101 total yards. Moes Maniacs 
allowed only seven points in the entire 
game, and have given up only 24 points in 
their first six games - W&Js only touch
down came after a Bob Gasior fumble on 
his own four yard line. Three plays later, 
W&Js Joel Pagello scored from one yard 
out and the conversion,was good. However, 
that was all she wrote for W&J, as CMUs 
defensive play, led by linebacker Ken 
Murawski, kept the Presidents at bay. 
Murawski intercepted two passes for 52 
yards.Offensively, the Tartans had very 
little problem moving the ball, as their 
grind 'em out attacks piled up 412 yards.
Bob Gasior was the games leading rusher 
with 70 yards on 27 carries and three 
touchdowns. Bobby Kennedy ran for 56 
yards on 12 carries, and was 8 of 16 for 
168 yards and two touchdowns through 
the air. *
Perry Colosimo took the opening kickoff to the Tartan 32 yard line where CMU 
mounted its first scoririg drive, going 72 
yards in 18 plays. Rick Leaman made 
some key yardage in that drive as Gasior 
took it over from the one after a 38 
yard pass reception by Greg Samsa.
On their next scoring drive, Kennedy 
utilized his receiving corps, hitting Pete 
Recchia and Greg Samsa for key yardage. 
Again, Gasior scored from the one to 
put CMU into the lead for the remainder 
of the game.
The Homecoming crowd was then treat
ed to an impressive offensive and defensive 
display by the third ranked Tartans as they 
added three more touchdowns and allowed 
none.
ft
PAC notes: Allegheny toppled Case Re
serve, 31-0... Thiel blanked Hiram, 24-0... 
Bethany crushed John Carroll, 17-0.
CMU vs. W&J, 25 years ago
oy Jim Lacey
Before a jubilant Homecoming crowd at 
Forbes Field of more than 5000 people, 
Tech not only won its seventh straight but 
the mythical Class B title as well, as the 
Tartans got closer to their objectivethe 
first undefeated season in the schools 
history.
At something less than its best, the 
sub-par Plaid team was too good for the 
scrappy Prexies, who very definitely 
outfought the heavier and more ex
perienced Tech line. From the beginning of 
the game it was a succession of breaks for 
the Tartans who could not capitalize on 
them until Phil Jeske stepped back and 
flipped a ten yard pass to Roy DeVries 
who went into the end zone for the score. 
Roy then converted for the first of three.
In the first quarter Tech intercepted 
two of Daglishs passes, one by Phil Jeske 
and one by Tony Capul, but couldnt 
budge the stubborn Prexie line. More 
breaks were added to the list in the second 
period when Joh Williamson recovered a 
fumble on the W&J four yard line, but 
Tech fumbled on the next play. Then came 
two blocked punts, one by little Art 
McGuigan, and the other by the whole 
Tech forward wall, which Tech capitalized 
on when Jeske tossed to DeVries.
After an exchange of punts W&J got
More IM sports
Touch Football: The commissioner is 
Rocky Cersosimo (x4613). The game 
Df the week featured Haven 11 and PKA. 
Haven II won, 14-9, to take the lead in the 
Vlajor league.
Co-Hec Volleyball: Commissioner is Mike 
Pochan. The playoffs begin Oct. 18 and 
will continue the 22nd & 23rd. Check the 
IM board for playoff schedules. 
Water Polo: Its still not too late to sign 
up as entries are due Oct. 18. A com
missioner is still needed.
Chess: Commissioner Bob Metz encourages 
more chess teams to sign up. Entries are 
due Oct. 10th through the 18th. 
Soccer: Entries are due on Oct. 25. Teams 
are needed for a womens only league. 
Team Volleyball: Commissioner is Mike 
Pochan. Entries are due on Oct. 18 at 
4:30 pm. Entry forms can be found in 
room 104 at the gym. More womens 
teams are needed. Check the IM board
for practice times.
Racquetball: Commissioner is Joe Chaves 
(687-9647). Games begin this week. Check 
the IM board for playing times. 
Team Table Tennis: Ken Bosch (683-1242) 
is the commissioner. Play begins this week. 
Check' the IM board for schedules. 
Bowling: Ed Novak (682-9580) is the 
commissioner. Entries are due on Oct.27 
and it is not too late to sign up!
Upcoming IM Events: Three person
Volleyball, Darts, and backgammon will 
be offered soon. Check the IM board for 
dates. Also, there will be a cross-country 
run for faculty and staff at 12:00 noon on 
Thurs., Oct. 25. The race will be 6 miles 
long and will begin at Flagstaff Hill. For 
entry forms and course maps contact 
Mr. Birdy at x2214, or stop by his office in 
the gym.
TARTANS AT ATTENTION! The football squad pays homage to the flag.
going, with Daglish calling the plays and 
Freskovich and Goodwin running the ball. 
They drove to the Tech 15 only to lose 
the ball on downs. There was another ex
change of punts and on the first running 
play A1 Schell recovered a Prexie fumble 
on their 44 yard line. On successive plays 
Briner, Quatse and Kennedy carried the 
ball to the 23, where Tucci whipped a 
spiral into Bill Kennedys hands for the TD.
After the second Tech score, the Prexies 
again started to march, only to see the 
drive halted when DeVries intercepted a 
pass, the fourth interception of the game. 
Taking a pitchout from Jeske, little Frank 
Smith ran through the W&J team like a 
will-o-the-wisp for 52 yards before 
being thrown out of bounds. DeVries and 
Blatt punched through the line to the one 
where Jeske went over to the fipal score.
Next week Tech hosts the tough, highscoring Lehigh Engineers from Bethlehem 
who have beaten Tech four years in a row 
and will be the last hurdle for the Tartans 
undefeated season. Since the contract with 
Lehigh is expiring this year, this may be 
the last time the two teams will play each 
othej for quite a while. It may be well that 
it should be this way, for against much 
lesser teams than Lehigh, the Tartans have 
given a poor account of themselves, as was 
witnessed last week against W&J.
IM sports star
Touch Footballidings
Standings
MAJOR LEAGUEINTERMEDIATES
WINLOSSWDMLOSS
BRADSHAWGREEN
Coaches All-Stars. . .2____. . 0 ..Greasys
Jumpin Jack Flash0___. . 3 ..Georges Gang. .. 0........... 4 ..
E.S.SJD.................... 1...........2..
Beta A. ...................o t*. . 2 ..SMACKS................ 1...........2..
Haven II..................3____. . 0..MACKS A.............. 2........... 0 ..
SAE A.......................1____. . 2 ..CONES & CO. .... 1........... 1 ..
PIKA A.....................2........... . 1 ..Phi Kappa Theta . ..4........... 0 ..
ATO..........................1___.. 1 ..ATO. ..................0........... 0..
INTERMEDIATES contU
HAMWINLOSS
LAMBERTWINLOSSDelta Upsilon .....3........... 0 . .
ZBT ......................... 3 . . .. . . 1 ..MACKS I................2........... 0 ..
Donner Dukes. . . .. 1 . . .. . . 3 ..GSIA Bucks...........3........... 0..
TFG........................ 0 . . .. . . 3 . .. 1........... 0 . .
Kappa Sig.............. 4 . . .. . . 0 ..Charolottesville
GreshsGang. 1 . . .. . . 2 . .All Stars........... 0........... 4 . .
Red Death.............. 1 . . .. . . 2 ..5 ETAUR.............. 0........... 4 . .
Outlaws A.............. 2 . . .... 1 ..Uncle Marks Boys.. 1............2..
SWANNWINLOSSCO-REC VOLLEYBALL 1979
Outlaw 1................ 1 . . .. . . 2..
Ballboys................ 1 . . .. . . 2..MAJOR LEAGUE
Stench II................. 3 . . .. . . 0 ..WDMLOSS
ZOO........................ 3 . . .. . . 1 . .Coaches All Stars4o
C.H.E.G.S.A. Keggers 1 . . .... 0 ..PKT-A......................3..........
w GSIA Doughboys .. 1 . . .. . . 3 ..PKT-B...................... 0........... 3 . .
THETA XI.............. 0 . . .. .. 3 ..Clams-B................... 0........... 2 ..
RAIDERS.............3 . . .. . . 2 ..3A Mudge.............. 0........... 3 ..
Beta - KKG........... 1..........%2 - 
Co-Rec Volleyball StandingsDU Ducks.............4........... 0 ..
(MINOR LEAGUES)
NICELEGS
WINLOSSWINLOSS
Peak Powe.............. 1 . . .... 1 . .CIA I...................... 1..........
Shirley Apts............ 0 . . .. . . 3 . .ALUM...................... 1........... 3 ..
Frosh +1 ..... 31CHEGSA................. 0........... 4 . .
Mixed Mashers . . .. 4 . . .. . . 0..Nobodys Fault. . .. 3 . ..,.. 0..
Young Nihilists. . .. 1 . . .. . . 2...2........... 1 ..
Biohazard13Math Dept...............3........... 0 . .
HONEY
WDMLOSS
SAE....................... 0 . . .. . 2 . .Important IM board meeting
Guppies................... 1 . . .. . . 3 ..Thus. Oct. 18. 12-30
Vector Equation . .. 1 . . .. . . 2..Room 104, gym
Spike and the Gang. 3 . . .... 0..
Clams A................... 1 . . .... 1 ..
CIA II...................... 2 . . .. . . 0..
photo by Zusman

---------------------------------------------------

The mean machine
DISCO CLASSES PARTIES - DINNER SHOWS ALL THIS - 6 WEEKS 32 HOURS "LESS THAN $1.00/HR." 
HOLIDAY HOUSE 
Enroll 241-2102 or 381 1386
Kearfott
Kearfott is coming on
Monday, 
November 12
Page 26-TAR TAN-October 16, 1979
photos by Duffee, Ladd, and Zusman
BSEE/Phys., MS Comp. Sei.
To make a 
high
a division of The SINC E R Company 
An equal opportunity employer, m/f, who creates opportunities.
Tartan offensive attack:
to tell you about one of the most sophisticated and 
rarrfied yet solid environments in the entire aerospace 
industry. Our representatives will outline our long 
history of science-factual achievements in inertial 
guidance systems, navigation, communications and 
airborne computersand tell you how we can launch 
you on the steepest possible career trajectory.
See your Placement Office for a preliminary company 
profile and sign up for a one-on-one interviewtoday.

---------------------------------------------------

October 16, 1979TARTANPage 27
photos by Duffee, Ladd, and Zusman
Plaid curtain defense
and "Moe's maniacs
make the going rough
for PAC opponents!

---------------------------------------------------

Page 28-TARTAN-October 16, 1979
GRAND OPENING
ft "SUIT YOURSELF"
f FACTORY DISTRIBUTOR OUTLET
Stop in for the best selection 
in the newest men s suits.
 Men s Suits and Sport Coats 
Latest Styles  Famous Brands
BELOW WHOLESALE
Add 10% discount for students
f 3710 FORBES
2nd floor-above Cindys621-6371
Rick Leaman, No. 40, leads Bob Kennedy around end.
?Illllllltll
THIS PROGRAM WILL BE PRESENTED BY RUSSELL C. MAXWELL 
OF GOLF SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY COMPANY ON October 16
at 12 Noon in the Wherrett Room IN Skibo.
MR. MAXWELL IS CURRENTLY INVOLVED WITH BUSINESS PLANNING, 
TECHNICAL AND ECONOMIC FORECASTING, AND LONG TERM 
ENERGY PROJECTS AND DEVELOPMENTS.
ALL CMU STUDENTS AND FACULTY ARE WELCOME AND ENCOURAGED 
TO ATTEND. TIME WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR QUESTIONS 
AND DISCUSSION.
iiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiDiiiiiiHiiiiDiuiiiiiiiiiQiiiiiiiiiiiiDiiimiiiiiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiimiiiaimiiiiiiiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiaiimiiiiiiiaiiiiiiHiiiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiQiiminiiiiDiiHimiig
ATTENTION!
STUDENT SENATE ELECTIONS
SEAT AVAILABLE IN I
MIS-3 
H&SS -1
CIT-3 
SUPA-1
CFA-4 
GSIA - 1
Petitions are available at the Skibo Information 
Desk. You only need 25 signatures to run. Petitions 
are due Midnight October 24. Election will be held 
November 7 and 8. Any activities-fee paying stu
dents are eligible.
GET INVOLVED!!!!
"Student Activity Fee Funded'
Ralph M. Sherman 
Rules Committee 
Chairperson
mHiitiiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiMiiiiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiuiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiimiaiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiin
CALL 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A
vlriXSJ
a
[0  It
CareerPerspectives
Investment Into The Energy Future 
Will It Take? Maybe You.

---------------------------------------------------

October 16, 1979-TAR TAN-Page 29
THE STROH BREWERY COMPANY, DETROIT, MICHIGAN  197
ALONE AND PREGNANT?
A coring, confidential friend, 
LIFELINE. DOWNTOWN PITTSBURGH 
S62-0543. Free Pregnancy Testing. 
Evening Hours Available
BEFORE YOU PICK UP 
YOUR DEGREE, 
PICK OUR INTERVIEW.
Contact your placement office 
for interview dates.
HUGHES
i_______________________
Creating a new world with electronics
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER M/F
No. 33, Denny Postufka, and No. 50, Mike Daher, combine for a PAT.
Tom, crying in your beer is one thing .. 
but when it's Strohs you ve gone too far.9
I For the real beer lover.I

il^lllNIII^lllNIlINIIl^llINlIlNlIINlllNlll^niNlllNllI^HiyilINllINlirNIIlNlllNlUNlUNIHNlllNlIlNlllMUlNTUNlliNlllNiliNlIi^INilMMIINTigiMIMININl]
M]^lllNlllNllI^[IfMII^I^lMlllNlllNlllNl[lNll1NlllNlllNII[NilPlllNlllRlilNillNlUaN.lllNllRlll^lllNllHlMl]MDlNlllMliMiaiMli^lllNillMllM

---------------------------------------------------

(jFt) WE

---------------------------------------------------

classified ads
yearbook, nowBuy your
at Skibo
Interested students must meet the fol
lowing criteria to be eligible: 1) is
or will be classified as a junior when the 
scholarship commences, 2) is within the 
top 25% of his/her class scholastically,
3) is majoring in a course of study that will 
prepare one for a management career in 
broadcasting such as business management, 
marketing, tefevision production, journal
ism or electronic engineering, 4) is in 
need of financial assistance.
Applications for the 79-80 academic 
year must be received prior to October 
31st for consideration. The grants will be 
awarded for the final 2 years of a student's 
enrollment. Grants will average $1,000 
per academic year.
Applications and additional information 
may be obtained by contacting Ann 
Ruddy, Financial Aid, Warner Hall.
The Financial Aid Office has just received 
information abour the Walter S. Barr Fel
lowship Awards. Interested students must 
meet the following criteria to be eligible:
1) be a resident of Hampden County, 
Massachusetts who has been or is about to 
be graduated from college, 2) be con
sidering a career of obvious social use
fulness (politics, scientific research, min
istry, or the learned professions), 3) be in 
need of financial assistance, 4) be plan
ning to work in Hampden County, Mass
achusetts on completion of their studies 
(but other applications witt be considered),
5) have taken the Aptitude Test of the 
Graduate Record Examination.
The fellowships will be awarded for 
one year, with the expectation that they 
will be continued for not more than two 
additional years, if such continuation is 
warranted. These fellowship awards will be 
not less than $1,000 per academic year.
Applications for the 1980-81 academic 
year can be obtained by writing to the 
Secretary, The Horace Smith Fund, Box 
3034, Springfield, Massachusetts 01101. 
Completed applications with all supporting 
data must be received in the Horace Smith 
Fund office by February 1, 1980.
The Pittsburgh Youth Symphony Orch
estra, Victoria Bond. Music Director, 
is pleased to announce its first Orchestral 
Composition Contest. The competition is 
open to composers resident in Pennsyl
vania, Ohio, and West Virginia, and to 
composition students enrolled in any 
accredited school, college, or conservatory 
in the tri-state area.
Scores of new works for full symphony 
may be submitted. Entries must be un
commissioned and unpublished, must never 
have been entered in any previous contest, 
nor been publicly performed. Maximum 
performance time is to be fifteen minutes.
Prizes to be awarded for the two win
ning manuscripts are $1500 and $750 
respectively, and each work will be given 
its world premiere performance by the 
Pittsburgh Youth Symphony Orchestra in 
1981. Judges for the competition are 
nationally known.
Deadline for registration is February 1,
1980. All scores must be submitted by May
1, 1980, and winners will be announced on 
October 1, 1980.
UNIVERSITY ORATORY UNDERGRAD
UATE GROUP meets every Thursday even
ing for Mass at 6:30 PM followed by free 
buffet dinner and discussion beginning at 
8:00 PM. Come join us for Christian Fel
lowship at the Oratory, 4040 Bigelow 
Blvd. Phone: 681-3181. Open to the pub
lic.
CAMPFIRE, sponsored by B'nai B'rith
Hillel and featuring food, singing, ghost 
stories and people, will be held on Satur
day night, October 20, from 9 to 11:30 PM 
at the Kaufman Family Park in Monroe
ville. Meet at 8:30 PM in front of 315
S. Bellefield Ave.
Have you spent time in Israel during the
past school year? If.so, you're invited to 
lunch at B'nai B'rith Hillel's Dining Center, 
3rd floor, 315 S. Bellefield Ave., on Wed
nesday, October 17, at 12 PM to meet 
other students who have also been in Israel 
and to share your experiences.
THE UNIVERSITY ORATORY GRAD
UATE GROUP will sponsor six Wednesday 
evenings of lectures, discussions, and so
cializing at the Oratory 4040 Bigelow 
Blvd. The lecture-discussions will center 
around contemporary views of the Church, 
and will begin at 8:00 PM on the Wednes
day evenings of October 17 and 31, 
November 14 and 28, and December 12. 
Refreshments and discussion will follow 
the talks. Graduate students are particu
larly invited, however, all interested per
sons are also welcome. For more infor
mation call 681-3181.
Scotch 'n' Soda presents . . . Sodies //! 
Another evening of dramatic entertainment 
and whatnot. It will take place on Wednes
day, October 17 (tomorrow) at 7:00 PM 
in Skibo Room 11. Audience participation 
is encouraged, but not required. Any 
scripts, sketches, ideas, flashes of brillance, 
etc. should be rushed to the SNS Office 
(Skibo 40d), or given to the Info Desk to 
be placed in the SNS mail box. See you 
there.
The Students' Dormitory Council has es
tablished office hours. Any undergraduate 
dormitory resident is invited to stop by 
and find out more about SDC or to register 
a complaint about any aspect of life on 
campus. Hours are: Monday from 2:30 to 
3:30 PM, Tuesday from 12:00 to 1:00 PM 
and 6:00 to 7:00 PM, Thursday from 
12:30 to 1:30 PM and 6:30 to 7:30 PM, 
and Friday from 2:30 to 3:30 PM. Our 
office is in room 55 in Skibo, campus ex
tension 2114. Feel free to call or stop by. 
On Wednesdays any undergraduate dorm 
resident may come to the SDC meeting 
at 7:00 PM in the Wherrett Room. Hope 
to see you there.
We need to know how you feel. What's
wrong with the academics at CMU? Tell us, 
the Student Senate Academic Affairs 
Committee, at our next meeting at 6:30 
PM on Wednesday, October 17 in Skibo, 
Room 33.
Attention!!! The Student Senate rules
committee meets every Thursday, at 6PM 
in Skibo room 33. All are welcome to 
attend.
ATTENTION: The STUDENT SENATE
meets every Tuesday night at 7:30 PM in 
the Wherret Room, through November 13,
1979. Everyone is welcome. We can 
help solve your problems.
In addition, Student Senate now has 
open office hours for you to come and 
talk to us. Our hours are:
M,W,F, 9:30 to 10:30 AM 
Tues. 10:30 to 11:30 AM 
Thurs. 1:30 to 2:30 PM 
If you have any questions for or about 
Student Senate, stop in and see us.
general
Career Perspectives: Investment in to
the Energy Future . . . What Will it Take? 
Maybe You. Program will be presented 
October 16 at 12 PM in the Wherrett 
Room in Skibo.
official
John P. Crecine, Dean of College of Hu
manities and Social Sciences will have open 
office hours for students on Tuesday from 
1:30 PM to 3:30 PM.
Get the Dean's List edge over your class
mates. Come to the Communication 
Skills Center and for no fee whatsoever, 
we'll teach, advise, and answer questions 
in all parts of the writing process. Our 
staff works with all subject matter: resu
mes, research papers, letters, applications, 
literature papers, rhetoric study, science 
assignments, and any other writing task 
you can think of.
Our Communication Skills Center, on 
the first floor of Baker Hall, is equipped 
with a library of writing books, exper
ienced and eager staff, and writing lessons 
on the computer. To top all this, we have 
prime office space with a scenic view of the 
Carnegie-Mellon campus.
We are oRen Monday through Friday, 
9:00 AM to 4:00 PM. Hurry. Don't be the 
last person in your class to take advantage 
of the Comm. Skills Center.
scholarships
The deadline date for the submission of
applications for NSF Graduate Fellowships 
is November 29, 1979. Further informa
tion and application materials may be ob
tained from the Fellowship Office, 
National Research Council, 2101 Consti
tution Avenue, Washington, DC 20418.
The deadline date for the submission of
applications for NSF Postdoctoral Fel
lowships is November 2, 1979. Further in
formation and application materials may 
be obtained from the Fellowship Office, 
National Research Council, 2101 Consti
tution Avenue, Washington, DC 20418.
The Financial Aid Office has just received
information and applications for the 
Post - Newsweek Stations Scholarship.
Are you artistic, creative, etc.? Are you
also looking for a wall (about 8 ft. x 10 ft.) 
upon which you would like to exhibit your 
talent (maybe for a course project)? Look 
no further. Call Ron and Tom, X4254. 
We've got a wall for you.
Part Time  College Students needed for
3 evenings and Vi day Saturday. $5.23 
per hour. Hours flexible, won't interfere 
with studies. Call ( 12 PM to 3 PM) at 
682-6284.
Work Study position available in Hewlett
Gallery. MUST be able to work Monday
10 to 12 AM. Additional hours can be ar
ranged. Call ext. 3618 for information. 
Lunch: Lutheran University Center
4515 Forbes. Monday-Friday 11:30 to 
1:15 PM. Soup, sandwich or salad, dessert, 
beverage $1.25. Everyone welcome. 
Waitress Wanted: O'Rourke's Cookery
and Saloon. Forbes Avenue. Squirrel 
Hill.
Words from SAINT AVITAS:
''No sympathy for the devil. Keep that in 
mind. Buy the ticket, take the ride, and if 
it occasionally gets a little heavier than 
you'd expected, well maybe chalk it off to 
some forced consciousness expansion." 
-Dr. Thom
Wanted: One Programmable female com
puter. Preferably ROM. 4947. Ask for 
Nelson Caro.
Wanted: One voluptuous female for Bill
the Whale. Must have resume. 4744.
CMU Explorers Club, it's backpacking,
climbing, hiking, cross-country skiing, 
caving, etc., we do it all. Club meetings 
are held every Thursday, 7:00 PM in Skibo, 
Room 11. Beginners and pros are welcome. 
We also have equipment (including sail
boats) for nominal rental fees available to 
the CMU community.
Poll workers are needed for the upcoming
Student Senate election to be held Novem
ber 7 ( 8 PM to 12 AM) and November 8 
( 8 AM to 8 PM) in Morewood, Skibo 
and Donner Hall. Salaries will be $3.00 
per hour. To get a job, contact Ralph M. 
Sherman, Rules Committee Chairperson 
at 683-0135, or leave a note for the Rules 
Committee box at the Skibo Info. Desk. 
Thank you, and Get Involved!!!
WEDNESDAY nights are busy at B'nai
B'rith Hillel, 315 S. Bellefield Ave. Join the 
Basic Judaism discussion group at 6:30 in 
the Rabbi's study. This week's topic is 
"Israel and Jewish Identity," and our guest 
leader will be Rabbi Poupko. The weekly 
Hebrew Ulpan class meets at 8 PM on Wed
nesday night in the Hillel lounge.
$2.50 Special!! Satisfy your soul and your
appetite with Friday night services and 
dinner, beginning at 5:30 PM, on October 
19 at B'nai B'rith Hillel, 315 S. Bellefield 
Ave. Reservations can be made in advance 
by calling 621-8875.

---------------------------------------------------

a.b.
October 19 at 6, 8, 10, and 12 PM 
Betty Boop Cartoons in DH 2210
Admission $ with CMU ID/$ 1.25 without 
October 18 at 7,9,11 PM 
The Servant in DH 2210
Admission $.75 with CMU ID/$1 without 
A sardonic melodrama on the imper
manence of power, this film exposes the 
hypocrises of British upper-class morality 
with one of the first, and finest, screen
plays by Harold Pinter. Dirk Bogarde plays 
the cunningly sinister manservant who be
comes the master of the house.
October 25 at 6,8,10 PM 
Psycho in DH 2210
Admission $.75 with CMU ID/$ 1 without 
This murderously marvelous movie re
cords with devilish detail every twitch, 
gurgle, and convulsion in the corpse 
making process. The shower murder scene 
cannot be missed. With Tony Perkins, 
Janet Leigh, Vera Miles, and John Gavin. 
October 26 starting at 6:30 PM 
Halloween Horror Festival in Skibo Ball
room. Free Admission 
Celebrate Halloween with A.B. as we bring 
you The Haunting, The Legend of Hell 
House and The Innocents.sports
October 16Volleyball vs. Indiana. (H)
6 00 PM.
October 17Soccer vs. St. Vincent (H)
4:00 PM.
October 18Volleyball vs. PSUMc
Keesport (A) 7:00 PM.
October 19Soccer vs. Hiram (A) 3:30
PM.
October 20Volleyball triad vs. Point 
*, Carlow (H) 12:00 noon.
October 20Football vs. Allegheny (A)
2:00 PM.
Available now- Penguins Hockey full (40 
games) and partial (20 
games) season tickets now 
on sale. For more infor
mation, call 434-8911. 
Spirit Soccer season tic
kets now on sale for Soc
cer beginning December 
7. Call 562-9510.theater
In the Studio Theatre this month:
Oct. 22-25
Two Gentlemen of Verona, A comedy by 
William Shakespeare, directed by Casey 
Childs.
October 18 thru 27
The CMU Department of Drama will pre
sent Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are 
Dead, a "theatre of the absurd'' work by 
Tom Stoppard. For ticket information 
call the Box Office at 578-2407.
For more information on these and other 
CMU productions, call the box office at 
578-2407.
October 17 - 2U 
Duquesne University
The Duke Red Masquers will present The 
First Bom. Set in biblical times the play re
volves around the seven plagues of Egypt 
leading to the Jewish exodus. Call 434- 
6433 for information.
October 25-26
Schenley Ballroom, Pitt Student Union 
Theatre X will be presented, a nostalgic 
cabaret show built around the story of 
America's most beloved cabaret blues 
singer, Helen Morgan. Call 624-4101 for 
information.
Through November 18
The Playhouse Jr. will present The Ghost 
of Mr. Penny in the Hamlet Street Theatre
(Pittsburgh Playhouse Theatre Center). For 
ticket information, call 621-4445.
October 11 thru 28
The Point Park Theatre Company will pre
sent A History of the American Film, a 
musical spoof by Christopher Durang, 
at the Pittsburgh Playhouse Theatre 
Center. For ticket information, call 621- 
4445.
Through November 4
Mister Roberts 
Allegheny Theater
Don't miss the first production of Pitts
burgh Public Theatre's fifth season. For 
ticket and subscription information, call 
765-3400.
October 6 thru 28
The Lovelace Theatre will present The 
Puppet Proposition on Saturdays and 
Sundays. For ticket information, call 
361-4835.
films
Pittsburgh Playhouse 
Hamlet Street Theatre
This week's features in the Pittsburgh Play
house Film Repertory include: Tuesday, 
The Bicycle Thief, Wednesday, Death on 
the Nile (7:30 and 9:50 PM); Thursday, 
The Front, Friday, Let's Talk About Men; 
Saturday, All About Eve (7:30 and 10 
PM); Sunday, The Miracle of Morgan 
Creek; and Monday, Stalag 17 (7:30 and 
9:40 PM). All films are shown at 7:30 and 
9:30 PM, except where noted. Admission 
is $2.50.
October 16 at 7:30 PM 
Ascent of Man Series in DH 2210 
The Music of the Spheres (Beauty in Math
ematics), will be sponsored by the Mellon 
Institute of Science.
October 17 at 8 and 10:15 PM 
David Lawrence Auditorium, Pitt Campus 
The acquaintance of two cousins evolves 
into an adulterous love, which the two 
families regard with dismay, in Cousin, 
Cousin. Admission is $1.50.
October 18 at 8 PM 
David Lawrence Hall, Pitt Campus 
The American Civil Liberties Union will 
show The Pumpkin Eater, as the 2nd in
stallment of their fall program. Admission 
is free. For more information, call the 
ACLU at 681-7736.
October 20 at 6:30, 9,11:30 
The Odessa File in DH 2210 
SDC presents this film for $.50 with ID, 
$1 without.
October 21 at 7:30 PM 
Carnegie Institute Lecture Hall 
Carnival in Flanders, by Jacques Feyder, 
will be presented in the History of Film 
.series. Admission is $1.50.
October 23 at 8 PM 
Carnegie Institute Lecture Hall 
La Marseillaise will be viewed, as the Jean 
Renoir directors series continues. Admis
sion is $1.50. For more information call 
622-3212.
October 24 at 8 PM 
Aguirre - Der Zorn Gottes in PH 100 
First in the CMU German Film Series. This 
film concerns the destruction of a Spanish 
conquistador in the 16th century. Admis
sion is free, 
uctober 26 at 8 PM
Museum of Art Theatre, Carnegie Institute 
Visiting filmmaker Paul Winkler, from 
Australia, originally scheduled to pre
sent his films on October 25, will be pre
sent to screen and discuss his works on Fri
day night, instead of Thursday. Admission 
is SI.
music
October 17 at 8 PM 
Alumni Concert Hall, CFA
The CMU Symphonic Wind Ensemble, 
conducted by Robert Page, will perform. 
Free admission.
October 18 at 8pm.
October 19 at 8:30 pm 
October 21 at 2:30pm 
Hein2 Hall, 600 Penn Avenue, Downtown 
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra feat
ures conductor Donald Johanos, and pian
ist Shigeo Neriki. The symphony will feat
ure music of Mozart, Tchaikosvky, and 
Dvorak. For more information, call the 
box office at 281-5000.
October 21 at 8 PM
Alumni Concert Hall, CFA
There will be a recital by faculty member
Brian Reagin. Free admission.
October 21 at 8:30 PM
The Mattress Factory, 500 Sampsonia Way,
North Side.
The woodwind quintet Pentaphonie will 
perform a broad-ranged program from ro
mantic literature to contemporary. Free 
admission. For more information call 231 - 
3169.
Upcoming Concerts:
Dicesare - Engler Productions
Kenny Loggins will appear at the Stanley 
Theatre on October 17. Sniff and the 
Tears will open.
Styx will be at the Civic Arena on October 
31, April Wine will open the show. 
Beatlemania invades the Stanley Theatre 
from October 31 through November 11.
Danny Kresky Enterprises
David Werner will perform at the Stanley 
Theatre on October 20.
Jethro Tull comes to the Civic Arena on 
October 25. U.K. will open.
Note: All tickets for the above mentioned 
concerts are available at the respective 
showplaces, and all National Record Marts
arts
Through October 19
The Hunt Institute for Botanical 
Documentation will present God Created; 
Linnaeus Arranged, a collection of photo
graphic reproductions that depict the life 
and works of Linnaeus, the father of 
biology. The gallery is located in the Pent
house of the Hunt Libary and is open from 
9 AM to 5 PM, Mondays through Fridays. 
At the Forbes Street Gallery this month: 
October 16-21
Steve Cramer and Brian Atchison will show 
their work in Architecture, photos, and 
screen prints.
October 23-28
Bob Kazk, Sue Taverra, and Tegan Kenney 
will exhibit their work in sculpture.
The gallery, located on the corner of 
Forbes Avenue and Margaret Morrison St., 
is open Tuesday through Sunday from 
12-4, and Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thurs
day evenings from 7-9.
Through October 28
PPA Galleries, 407 South Craig St., Oak
land.
The Pittsburgh Plan for Art and the Yugo
slav Sonsulate of Pittsburgh are sponsoring 
a contemporary graphic arts exhibit. Fif
teen internationally recognized Yugoslav 
artists will display their works. The show is 
free and open to the public and may be 
viewd during gallery hours: Tuesday-Satdav 10-5 PIVL and Sunday 1-5 PM.special
October 17 at 8 PM 
Carnegie Lecture Hall
Allen Grossman and James Laughlin will 
read as part of the International Poetry 
Forum. Tickets are $2.50 for students. 
For more information call 621-9893. 
October 17
The zany dance comedy group, Les Ballets 
Trockadero De Monte Carlo, returns to 
Heinz Hall for an 8 PM show. Ticket prices 
are $9, 8, 7. For more information call 
281-8185.
October 18 at 8 PM
John Jay Center, Robert Morris College
Moon Township Campus 
Wilson Brian Key, author of Subliminal 
Seduction, will speak. Admission is $1. For 
information call 262-4507.
October 18 at 8:30 PM 
Carnegie Music Hall
Joseph Alsop, noted columnist, author 
and historian will speak on How We Came 
to See the Way We See Now. Call 622-3313 
for more information.
October 22 at 8 PM 
Carnegie Music Hall, Oakland 
The International Poetry Forum presents 
Peter Ustinov Reads Peter Ustinov and 
Others. Mr. Ustinov is coming directly 
from the Stratford Festival in Ontario 
where he is presently performing as King 
Lear. For more information call 621 - 
9893.
October 25 - 28
Pittsburgh Playhouse Theatre Center
Craft Avenue, Oakland 
The American Dance Ensemble will per
form A Tribute to Gershwin. For more 
information call 621-4445.
October 16, 8 9 PM; WRCT
John Eichmuller, Director of University 
Food Services, will appear on WRCT's pub
lic affairs program, "Profiles on Parade." 
He will be available to discuss the new ac
counting system, and food service in gener
al. Listeners will be invited to call in with 
questions.
October 23 at 7 PM 
WRCT Radio
Dr. Richard M. Cyert, president of Carne
gie Mellon University, will appear on 
WRCT's public affair program, "Profiles 
on Parade." He will be available to hear 
listener comments or take questions about 
the University or university problems.
October 28 and November 4 
Country Dance Society in the Pitt Student 
Union, lower level from 7 to 9 PM. All 
dances are taught. No partner is required. 
Beginners are particularly welcome the 
first hour.
ALL ADS DUE IN 
TARTAN OFFICE 
BY 10:30 A.M.
WEDNESDAY
