C-MU Applies for Pollution Variance
by Mina Gerall
A hearing was scheduled for Monday, f December 11 before the Allegheny County 
Air Pollution Variance Board to determine 
whether or not a two year Variance 
requested by CarnegieMellon University 
should be granted. In June 1972 the 
Allegheny County Health Department, 
Rules and Regulations, Article XVIII, Air 
Pollution Control reduced CMUs pre
vious status of non-polluter to that of nonI complier. CMU is, under this regulation, 
guilty of producing twice the amount of 
pollutants allowed by law. The regulation 
concerns sulfur dioxide and particulate 
emissions.
The present source of heating for the 
campus is coal. Conversion to oil firing is 
necessary to bring CMU into compliance 
with the new emissions regulations. During f the two year interim period, if granted, the 
University would attempt to purchase and 
use low sulfur coal. At present providing 
heating for the campus costs approxi
mately $500,000 per year. If the 
University can purchase the low sulfur 
coal, (at an estimated cost of $22 per ton), 
an additional $200,000 per year will be 
needed to cover operating costs. (Normal f winter load is approximately 75,000 
lbs./hour and peak winter load is 
approximately 95,000 lbs./hour.)
Mr. Roger Schmidt, Director of Physical 
Plant Services, explained that a two year 
variance was requested because of en
gineering and monetary considerations. 
The conversion of the present coal firing 
boilers, to oil firing, would have to be done 
 during the summer when only one of the
Fine Arts 
Investigates 
Expansion
by Gary Bronheim9
The College of Fine Arts is presently in 
search of needed areas to help to alleviate 
the present classroom overcrowding that 
exists. At the beginning of the semester 
plans to build a new fine arts building were 
scrapped due to a lack of funds. Now the 
administration and Dean Midani, head of 
the College of Fine Arts, are surveying such 
p places as Mellon Institute and Thistle Hall, 
in hope of finding an area that could be 
properly converted into a functional work 
area by September 1973.
According to Dean Midani CFA has 
587 students and 53 faculty in 1953 and 
now has 1049 students and 99 faculty 
members with only a 13% increase in the 
amount of space the college has at its dis posal. The college is presently attempting 
to increase its area by approximately 66%.
It appears that if a move will be made it 
will most effect the music department. The 
Design Department has been relocated in 
Baker Hall, the Architecture department 
has been split between the fine arts 
building and Doherty Hall, as well as 
Painting and Sculpture which recently 
padded space in Doherty Hall. The Drama 
department was supposed to gain work 
shop and exhibition rooms in the new Fine 
Arts buildingAHowever since it will not be 
built, a place for such activities is still 
needed. The music department too needs 
to expand. Mellon Institute was the first 
place looked at and the cost and suitability 
are still being checked out. In a position ^ paper presented by Sidney Harth, head of
continued on page 3
three operating boilers is in use. Problems 
concerning location, design and engineering 
are at this time unresolved.
The University has estimated that to 
convert the three coal fired boilers to oil 
firing will cost approximately $500,000. 
The annual operating costs after conversion 
will be increased by $200,000 over the 
present cost.
According to the Administration, the 
major obstacle to conversion is the 
Universitys lack of financial resources. In 
the request for variance Dr. Rutledge 
stated, Revisions to our dust collecting 
system in 1971 cost approximately 
$30,000, which was absorbed with some 
difficulty into our operating budget. Con
version to oil will cost between $400,000 
and $500,000 and cannot be absorbed at 
this time. Source of financing for this large 
sum is still in question, and we can see no 
way to raise the money before 1974.
Dr. Harry Rowell, Director of Opera
tions, affirmed Dr. Rutledge by saying that 
all other reasonable methods have been 
investigated, and at this time oil firing is 
the most feasible, but because CMU has 
been running on a deficit budget it is not 
possible to come into compliance before
1974.
( As the TARTAN goes to press, we learn of a possible postponement of the hearing from the December 11th date. Further details and results, when available, will be covered in a future issue, -ed. )
As smoke fills the sky, Carnegie -Mellon University applies for a pollution law 
variance because of monetary problems of conversion from coal to oil.
photo by Frank Stein
Anti-Gulf Poster Removed 
from Drama Dept. Production
Earle Gister, head of Drama, whose latest 
production has caused some controversy.
photo bv Greq Nickel
by Steve Jurman
The Drama Department was last week 
beset by a mini-tempest centering on the 
set of the current main stage production, 
Song of the Lusitanian Bogey.
The all-black production, C-MU Dramas 
first, is from a play by Peter Weiss 
(Marat-Sade) and concerns the plight of 
the black inhabitants of the Portuguese 
colonies of Angola and Mozambique.
To provide some local relevance the 
designer and director put up in the audi
torium a poster reading Gulf Kills, a 
slogan popularized in 1970 during the Gulf 
Action Project, a demonstration and proxy 
campaign protesting Gulfs involvement in 
the Portuguese colonies. The poster was 
removed before opening night.
Just before the dress rehearsal on Fri
day, December 1, an unidentified Drama 
student complained about the poster to 
Dean of Students Earl Swank, who con-New Housing Price 
Schedule Proposed
by Marc Kellner
A proposed price schedule for the un
dergraduate dormitories, to be effective in 
September 73, was presented by housing 
manager William L. Dillon at last Wednes
days MDC meeting. The new system, still 
very much in the planning stage, would 
have five prices to cover all rooms on cam
pus, excluding the apartments, and would 
replace the current practice of thirty-three 
price classes. This idea will result in signifi
cant savings in administrative costs, as well 
as providing the student with a far clearer 
picture of what he has to choose from. The 
propounded rates would also equalize the
prices of comparable mens and womens 
rooms, which is an important point to 
many on campus.
The previous price schedule was based 
on the idea that each dormitory should pay 
for itself, but Dillons idea is that only the 
undergraduate dormitory system as a 
whole need pay for itself. This results in 
rates far more in line with the value of a 
room to the student. The ideas put forth 
were the result of a survay conducted ear
lier in the year and the ideas of several 
representatives of WDC and MDC who met 
with Dillon to work out the details. It was 
felt that there is no significant difference in
continued on page 3
tacted Vice President for Development 
John Johnson (whose division includes 
fund raising). Johnson immediately phoned 
Drama Chairman Earle Gister. A luncheon 
meeting was scheduled with President 
Cyert and others for Saturday, which was 
also opening night.
By that meeting the poster was gone. It 
and other matters, such as the use of barely 
distinguishable Gulf oil cans in the play, 
were discussed.
Vice President Johnson believed the set 
alteration proper because Gulf had been 
singled out for attention although it did 
not appear anywhere in the script, while 
other corporations did. He also thought it 
wrong that Gulf had no chance to defend 
itself. Our good friends deserve to be 
treated fairly.
President Cyert also noted that Gulf had 
been singled out, although it received no 
mention in the play. He noted that Gulf 
was a major contributor, but that if Gulf 
had been named with other companies, and 
if Drama maintained that it had artistic 
importance, it could remain, and he would 
explain the action to Gulf, and trust to 
Gulfs good judgement.
President Cyert also expressed con
cern that self censorship in the future not 
be based on this incident, and claimed to 
be making aspects of the situation clear to 
all concerned. (He also revealed that Gulf 
had agreed to send representatives to an on 
campus debate on its African involvement, 
if interest warranted it.)
Bogey director Israel Hicks said that 
he was asked, not ordered, to remove the 
poster and had no complaints about the 
matter. It was not censorship, really ... it 
(the poster) was indefensible on my part. 
He added that if Gulf were in the script, 
the matter would be different.
At least one student acting in the play, 
continued or page 3

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2THE TARTANTuesday, December 12, 1972
editors note
My years at Carnegie Mellon included the rise and peak of aware
ness and activity here. To those who wished to find it, there was much in 
those years that was disappointing; it was a time of self-delusion, absurd 
posturing, and rampant egos.
But it was a time of hope, and above all a time of spirit. The hell 
about was plain, but there was a glimpse of better and the will to strive for 
it. There was good comradeship in the vision and the struggle.
Now the apathy is back, more deeply entrenched than ever. There is 
no caring; self-centeredness reigns. Those who blame the breakdown on 
'community for our social problems can take no solace here. The only 
ambition typified by the many whose goal is to be accepted by the 
University of Chicago and become rich corporate lawyers. / wish you all 
gout.
Among the few not so encased in self are the TARTAN staffers, 
whose drive has made the TARTAN an agent of the whole campus 
community. / wish to thank them all, and particularly those who worked 
so closely with me, for making my term at the TARTAN one of my most 
pleasurable and rewarding experiences.
Steve Jurman
To begin, a little self-indulgence:
A year ago, the TARTAN was almost dead. There were six reporters 
on the news staff, three on the features staff and three photographers. 
There was no entertainment department. Through last spring and this fall, 
the TARTAN has grown and improved, largely because of the hard work 
of people like photography editors Ed Levine and Elliot Arons, news 
editor Jeff Ganek and, especially, Steve Jurman. At this point, most of us 
feel that the TARTAN has the depth and, at least, the potential to 
become a first class newspaper,
Steve Jurman began his editorship with the stated hope that the 
TARTAN serve to increase communication and understanding between 
the increasingly diverse elements of this university. This is a noble senti
ment and should continue to be expressed.
The' word / want to emphasize is responsiveness. Having few real 
preconceptions about the way the university is run and few messages to 
preach, the editorial policy will be one of rational and, hopefully well 
thought out response to the important issues on this campus. / welcome 
any rational and well thought out ideas, opinions, gripes and suggestions 
from others. The TARTAN welcomes any intelligent, interested and 
literate person to join its staff.
Goals: to tread the line between rhetorical overstatement and 
ineffectuality; to find a compromise between my own personal opinion 
and the separate interests of the different segments of the university; to 
remember that the function of a student newspaper is also to provide a ' 
worthwhile, interesting activity and make working on the TARTAN an 
enjoyable, educational and artistically satisfying experience.
Steve Saunders
Editor in Chief.................Steve Saunders
Business Manager................Alice Bright
Special Editors.........................Jeff Ganek
Mina Gerall
Special Consultant . . . . Steve Jurman
News Editor.............................Gary Singer
Features Editors.................David Guida
Shelley Burhans 
News and Features Staff . . .Chris Braun 
Gary Bronheim, Chris Brown 
Craig Collins, Steve Correll 
Brandon Dula, Laurel Felix 
Mark Field, Anne Friedman 
Greg Fulton, Mike Hill 
Chris Infante, Joan McCluskey 
Greg McKenna, Robin Reiter 
Debbie Siegel, John Spalding 
EHen Steiber
Political Editor.........................Jim Slivka
Photography Editors .... Ed Levine
Elliot Arons 
Photography Staff .... Henry Collins 
Bruce Edelston, Andrea Friedman 
Carl Grefenstette, Dan Goldstein 
Nick Lardas, Greg Nickel 
John Shettel, Frank Stein
Entertainment Editor . . Stephen Hamm 
Entertainment Staff . . Terry Caywood 
Nonie Dempsey, Fred Gormley 
Arnie Karr, Susan Klein 
Steve Perkins, Paula Shubock 
Julio Vera
Sports Editor ........................Jim Brogan
Sports Staff.................................Dan Buis
Jeff Englund, Roger Geddes 
D.R. Sullivan
Layout.................................Becky Carrol
Steve Jurman, Karla Salvi
Copy Staff ...............................Mina Gerall
Sandy Preuhs, Cyndy Schmidt
Published every Tuesday during the aca
demic year at Carnegie-Mellon University, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 15213. Editorial 
and Business offices in Skibo 50, CarnegieMellon University. Telephone (412) 
682-4557.
pD* MA/iass
_ ' ro -V
we Ahea call ms police' -Htfs cut thc lines
Letters:
Editor:
Looking back on our years at CMU, we 
find it easy to identify the greatest source 
of influence upon our lives. Though we are 
approaching psychology from very in
dividualized points of view, we have in 
common the effect Steve Sales has had in 
determining our approach to our careers in 
psychology.
Steve Sales was the best instructor we 
feel we had at CMU. The energy and 
interest he generated in his classes provided 
a great inspiration not only for us, but for 
many other of his students as well. In very 
different ways, he was a remarkable driving 
force behind us both. Our energy and 
motivation for psychology were derived 
from our association with Steve, both in 
and out of the classroom. As an excellent 
instructor, extraordinarily competent 
researcher, and ethusiastic and know
ledgeable advisor, Steve Sales provided us 
with the model of the psychologist to 
which we both aspire.
Though we are only two of the students 
that experienced Steve during his short 
career at Carnegie Mellon, we speak for all 
who knew him when we express our sad
ness over his recent death. The tragic loss 
of Steve Sales at the beginning of a brilliant 
career was a deep, personal loss for us, and 
an inestimable loss to psychology and the 
students of CMU.Bill IaconoGinical Psychology Training Program University of Minnesota Ilene Gochman Department of Psychology University of Washington
Editor
We at Youth City would like to publicly 
extend a sincere Thank You to the stu
dents and Faculty of Carnegie-Mellon 
University.
Less than two weeks ago I spoke to Mr. 
Bob Schwanke of the Tech Christian 
Fellowship about Youth Cities Art Pro
gram in Western Penitentiary.
In a matter of days Youth City has 
received a total of $797.64 plus art 
material from Carnegie-Mellon University 
students and Faculty toward this program.
This will enable twice as many inmates 
to participate in individual art classes. Last
year only 25 men signed up for the pro
gram, this year 58 men have signed up.
Last year classes were taught by Mr. Jim 
Williams from the Art Institute of Pitts
burgh. This year Mr. Mike Conrad a 
graduate student of Carnegie-Mellon 
University will be conducting classes.,
Mr. Conrad had stated that for a com
prehensive art program that would include 
everyone wishing to enroll, approximately 
$3200.00 would still be needed.
Therefore Youth City is still in need of 
help for the prison art program.
A beginning was started at CarnegieMellon University. I believe the efforts of 
the Tech Christian Fellowship will spread.
Once again Youth City along with the 
Inmates of Western Penitentiary who are in 
the program would like to thank everyone 
concerned who showed such free love for 
their fellow man, regardless of their beliefs.Bill ONeil Executive Director Youth City Youth Gty
Editor:
To the student body, the Tartan is a 
weekly newspaper which comes out late 
Tuesday afternoons and provides general 
information about the C-MU campus com
munity. To the staff of this schools student 
newspaper, the Tartan means doing a 
weekly story which is handed in hypothe
tically on Wednesday and eventually 
reappears in print. To the editor-in-chief, 
who has to live the Tartan contantly, the 
paper is a integral part of himself.
As a member of the Tartan staff, I feel 
obliged to draw additional recognition to 
Steve Jurman for his creation of a news 
service which is both efficient and poten
tially professional. To Steve, the Tartan 
owes its existance, its success, and its 
future. It is surprising, yet realistic to 
notice how much one person can change 
the face and general respect for a news
paper. He did not stand alone, the dedica
tion of news editor Jeff Ganek was always 
more than just present, yet if on purely 
positional status only, Steve Jurman de
served to be preserved on these pages of 
the Tartan, for without him, they would 
not exist .
Gary Singer
News Editor

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, December 12, 1972-Page 3
CommentaryCommentary
The Friority: Eat WheatThe Election of 1988
by Stacey Kimbell
The friority-a combination fraternity 
sorority is called ALFALFA ALFALFA 
ALFALFA. It is open to everyone. The 
idea is that it remain a highly independent 
organization so the first and most impor
tant thing is to pay dues to yourself. You 
have your own meetings and keep your 
own secrets. To join (and after you initiate 
you may initiate anyone else-no bids) you 
shake your own hand. Its all very easy. 
The motto is Eat Wheat and the song is 
Im In the Mood For Love, in any key.
The inspiration for this particular 
friority is the sorority that has the pleasure 
of me living on their floor. They locked off 
the kitchen the one night this semester that 
I wanted to cook my own dinner. They 
were having a secret meeting. Now, there 
are certain kinds of secret meetings they 
can have. There is the every week informal 
meeting and the pledge parties and the 
formal initiations and then there is the 
candle lighting ceremony. The candle 
lighting ceremony is pretty hot fish, except 
its open to the public. One girl in the 
sorority goes to the president and says,
Housing Prices
continued from page 1
value between the Hill Dorm area and 
More wood Gardens. The value of each class 
of room was then determined, relative to a 
base price- that of the lowest class of room. 
The base price is determined from the total 
revenue needed for the year.
The classes are as follows:
Class 1: triple room, all triple suites, 
double room with common bath: base 
price
Class 2: double room with semi-private 
bath, double suite with common bath: base 
price plus $20
Class 3: double room with private bath: 
base price plus $30
Class 4: single room with common bath: 
base price plus $50
Class 5: single room with private bath: 
base price plus $60
The base price would be somewhere 
around $290, with no increase in total rev
enue. Mr. Dillon has asked that anyone 
having opinions or recommendations on 
the classes and their relative prices see him 
in the Housing Office before January 15. 
Any such input would be appreciated.
Fine Arts
continued from page 1
the music department, he spells out that 
the move to Mellon Institute would be 
undesirable becuase of travel time loss be
tween the campus and MI as well as the 
problem of adequate transportation, the 
loss of academic interplay between depart
ments, acoustical considerations, expansion 
potential, etc. He stated that he was against 
a move to Ml, but that if the administra
tion insisted, the department would resist 
this move unless the proper facilities were 
installed, which would hopefully streng
then the department. Sidney Harth stated 
that the only way out is to build the new 
building. The situation now rests in the 
hands of the administration who are 
checking into the various possibilities. '
Gulf Kills
continued from page 1
however, strongly felt that they had been 
censored. This student added that, in 
general, white audiences were reacting 
badly to the play.
Look, Im either lavaleared, pinned or 
engaged and you put up a sign and make 
me one of these things. So it is done. 
They go into the lounge and turn off the 
lights and no one knows who the ringer is 
except the president and the girl. The rest 
of the girls are in a state of vicarious 
frenzy. They are making legitimate specu
lations on who is the apple and what rank 
she holds as of today. They light this 
candle and pass it around in a circle, 
singing a song that has lyrics meaning-No 
matter what, my first love is the sorority. 
Once, they made a fake ceremony so I 
could get the experience, first hand.
As for Alfalfa, there are at least 200 
members on this campus alone, and pro
bably a thousand members with all chap
ters combined.
You must remember another of our 
mottos though before you join. That after 
you initiate-theres no way to 
deactivate.
by David Stewart
Dad, did people really used to vote? 
Yes they did, son.
Well whatever made them think they 
knew enough to pick their own leaders? 
People had a lot of strange notions 
back then. It seemed to work well enough 
though.
Wasnt it kind of risky? I mean, what if 
some incompetent or maniac got elected? 
We just had to live with our mistake 
for four years but we managed.
Man, how crude. Didnt they have poll
sters back then to tell who should be 
president?
Yes, but it was different then. Polls 
were just used to show who was ahead and
by how much. Then people started to 
believe them so much that they stopped 
voting. They figured they couldnt make a 
difference anyway.
Sure took them long enough to wise 
up.
Im not so sure, son?
What dya mean? This way we know 
weve got the best possible man for the job. 
He was scientifically chosen. Its the only 
way.
Im just old-fashioned I guess.
Just give President Gallup four more 
years and I bet thingsU be back to 
normal.
Well see.
ADVERTISING MANAGER NEEDED
The TARTAN is currently in need of a good reliable student who is 
willing to assume the duties of Advertising Manager. Job promises 
to be both educationally and socially rewarding.
Inquire at the TARTAN office, room 50 in Skibo or call 682-4557. 
THE TARTAN WANTS & NEEDS YOU!!!
Stereotyp e /Society
0 THE ATOM() THE WORK OP ART :
coont tiuedpuauig 3oeAsp up m 
pkut ut ft icole po tiuedie 
ft f cop oa 3eo3ce teph up 
yoetdp ,Crr-l pkfp f, CrM,
I5NT OUST A LOT OF ELECTHONS
orbiting arcono a CLUSTER of 
LITTLE ALL*  BUT AS LONG AS 
IT CAN BE REPRESENTED 30 ^ 
SO EASILY BT THE MEDIA, WHO 
CARES ? THOSE SCIENTISTS MUST 
BE WE.IRO, RUNNING AROUND WITH 
TEST TUBES FILLED WITH ATOMS .
FAR OUT, SOME MIGHT SAY. IT 
REALLY MOST MEAN SOMETHING. 
PEOPLE WHO DON*T UNDERSTAND 
ABSTRACT ART HAVE GOTTEN 
INTO THE HABIT OF DEFINING 
IT AS NON - UNDER STAND ABLENO ATTEMPTS ARE MADE TO 
FEEL OR REACT TO THE WORK - 
ITS JUST THERE, ulKE THE 
SIDEWALK. WHAT OOES IT MEAN?'*
PERSON
U0M6 HAIR - MUST BE UNDER 3d. 
tolRC-RI*MCD &UASSES- HC& A 
RfcDtCAL TO   SUKC . BUSHY 
Eyebrow5  probably 6ERman. 
SERIOUS EXPRESSION - POSSIBLY 
A COMMUNIST student, he 
USED TO BE SUCH A NICE BOY"
HOW CONVENIENT IT IS TO USE 
THE CONCEPT OF THE SUPREME 
BEING TO ONE'S ADVANTAGE *.
WELL WIN THIS WAR, WITH 
GODS HELP.
oU vtudw pke iodie3p ft f 
auccb udb pke . Fcfdn aoU vdb 
eS3cfudfEce 3G-DM,-DC q
60D CREATED HEAVEN AND 
earth ... *
OR FOR RHETORICAL PURPOSES;
11 PEOPLE WILL LOOK BACK AT THE 
GENERATION OF THE \9TO'S  AT 
HOW Wfc'VE CONDUCTED OURSELVES, 
AND THEY WILL SAY,
GOD BLESS AMERICA1.
Richard M. Nton J Nov. 7 ,1972

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4THE TARTAN-Tuesday, Derrter 12. 1972
Beach Named Director 
For Equal Opportunity
by Gary Bronheim
On January 15, 1973 Dr. Ruth Beach 
will begin to serve her role as Director of 
Equal Opportunity. President Cyert stated 
that with the help of an advisory 
committee composed of male and female 
faculty, staff, and students, her major role 
will be to stress the importance of hiring 
women and members of other minority 
groups, as well as seeing that the needs of 
CMU women are taken into account.
Dr. Beach will try to introduce new 
sources for department heads to look to 
when searching for qualified women to 
hire, outside of present sources, which 
until now, have not been able to furnish
Minority students are eligible for  fee 
waiver for the Graduate Record Examin
ation. Waiver application forms and ap
proval for the waiver may be obtained 
from college and university financial aid 
offices.
A Minority Graduate Student Locater 
Service has been established. This is a data* 
bank where universities interested in re
cruiting minority students can seek
assistance. Each student is requested to fill 
out a questionnaire based on area of in
terest and educational background, and re
turn it to GRE. If you do not receive a 
form for this service in your GRE packet, 
write directly to Minority Graduate Stu
dent Locater Service, Box 2615, Princeton, 
N.J. 08540, and ask that a questionnaire be 
sent to you. There is no fee for this service.
When corresponding with graduate 
schools, advise them that you are a minori
ty student. Also, inquire about their poli
cies regarding application fee waivers for 
minority students.
Some fellowship information is available 
specifically for minority students in 207 
Warner Hall.
enough of a percentage of women faculty 
members.
Although she will have no say in who is 
actually hired or fired. Dr. Beach will have 
advisory power.
In a telephone interview with the new 
Director, who is presently living and 
working at Princeton University. Dr. Beach 
stated that my whole approach is to try 
to work with Deans and Department 
Heads, and staff and students and to be a 
resource to them all. Further comments 
cannot be made until Dr. Beach arrives at 
CMU and investigates the situation 
presently encountered by women at this 
university.
by Brandon Dula
James Dugas is a student of the CMU 
Art Department. He has won numerous art 
awards, including the Lieer Award which 
was exhibited at the Students Art Gallery. 
He is also a former Upward Bound student. 
Living in the Glenn Hazel section of the 
city he attended Gladstone High School. 
We asked Jim what he felt Upward Bound 
did for him? He responded, I feel Upward 
Bound was the beginning of a new life for 
me, I say this in all sincerity. I feel Upward 
Bound taught me lifestyles. I preferred 
having black instructors because coming 
from a poverty stricken area they could 
understand my situation better. I feel that 
without Upward Bound I would have never 
made it through high school. Before com
ing to the program I never received any
thing higher than a C, and ever since I have 
received all As. Some of his other achieve
ments have been that as a freshman he 
placed in the Tennessee International Col
legiate Drawing Competition, as a sopho
more won the Port Official Award. When 
we asked Jim what he plans to do after he 
graduates, he replied, Teach, make art and 
become part of the world that is rightfully 
mine.
The first in the series of Professional 
Seminar Series, which was hosted by Pro
fessor Claude S. Colantoni, was held on 
November 29, 1972 at 1:30 P.M. in the 
Multi-Purpose Room of Hunt Library.
Dr. John W. Evans, Assistant 
Commissioner, Office of Education, De
partment of Health Education and Welfare, 
was the speaker of the day. Dr. Evans, who 
received his Ph.d. degree at Ohio State, in 
Sociology, spoke of his experiences in 
three governmental agencies (US 
Information and Welfare) and the activities 
and responsibilities in his present position, 
with emphasis on recent trends in public 
sector management. His special expertise is 
ihe evaluation of public programs. He 
stressed the importance of modern manage
ment techniques in the planning, 
budgeting, and other statistical and experiThe CMU Department of Design has re
ceived gifts of phototypesetting equipment 
totaling approximately $100,000 which 
gives the department a capability in the 
area of typographic design unmatched by 
any design school in the country.
The equipment includes eight different 
major pieces, as well as various accessory 
items.
The new machines give design students 
much greater speed and flexibility in type
setting work. According to Joseph Ballay, 
head of the department of design and asso
ciate dean for the College of Fine Arts, 
We can now print any type size from 7 
point to 72 point, and we have the capabil
ity to print a combination of 164 different 
sizes and faces of type.
The equipment is used in design classes 
teaching printing processes as they relate to 
the designer, including offset and leterpress 
printing. Among other projects, students 
design and actually print their own books, 
including illustrations and copy.
The new phototypesetting laboratory 
set-up has three sections: a new Compugraphic 7200 display machine, and a Compugraphic Twin Lens 4961 text and head
line machine, together with two dual-image 
Intermec keyboards, donated by the Compugraphic Corporation, Wilmington, Mass; 
a Varitype photo typeset ter with perforamental procedures. He expressed a shift in 
the administration of public programs to 
experimentation procedures to evaluate 
their effectiveness prior to the legislature 
of large scale programs. He discussed the 
obstacles and difficulties which arise in 
resource allocation and program admini
stration when quantitative and rational 
management procedures are at ends with 
legislative and political decisions and allo
cations.
The Professional Seminar Series is con
ducted by SUPA and all campus members 
are invited to participate. The purpose is to 
bring professionals in government, 
community, and other not-for-profit 
agencies to discuss their experiences and 
activities, to provide information to stu
dents about recent trends and oppor
tunities in public sector management.
ting keyboard, a photo composing display 
machine, paper processor and a wax coater, 
donated by the Varityper Division of the 
A-M Corporation; and a used Photon ma
chine, Admaster 200-A, donated by the 
Philadelphia Bulletin.
Each of the sections is an independent 
phototypesetting system which can pro
duce finished copy from a keyboard in 
seconds; and each, by different technical 
means can produce a wide variety of sizes 
and type faces.
The equipment was obtained through 
the cooperation of William Garth, Jr., pres
ident of Compugraphic Corporation; Ed
ward Hale, vice president of marketing, and 
D.M. Maxfield, district manager, Varityper 
Division of A-M Corporation; and Joseph 
M. Sanford,manager of procurement, build
ing and safety for the Philadelphia Bulletin. 
Robert M. Campbell, president of Photon 
Incorporated, is arranging for more modern 
photon equipment to be installed.
Valuable assistance was received from 
two Carnegie-Mellon graduates: Albert J. 
Smith (PM 56), product development 
manager of the Varityper Division of A-M 
Corporation; and Raymond W. Philewski 
(PM 61), assistant superintendent of the 
composing room of the Philadelphia Bulle
tin.
_1.0us _1.er1 He1dqu1rters 
FOR ALL YOUR 
PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS
Fil.
Processing  Equi0.ent
CAMERA EXCHANGE
Student Discount on Most Ite.
Two Locations 
OAKLAND3711 Forbes Avenue 
SHADYSIDE5432 Walnut Street
Phone: 683-2181 
Phone: 683-8900
Graduate Scholarships 
for Jewish Social Welfare Careers
Interviews will be held for seniors interested in 
exploring graduate social welfre and field work place
ment leading to an executive career with Jewish 
Federations.
Scholarships for tuition and stipened for living ex
penses are available for those who can qualify.
For further information and appointment for oncampus interviews call Elayne Rosen, United Jewish 
Federation . . . 681-8000.
Aid Available To Minority
Students
Upward omd 
Mum Br Jrt
U.S. Office of Education official John Evans discussed management techniques
in public programs.
HEW Official Opens 
SUPA Seminar Series
Photo by Ed Levine
Design Dept Acquires 
Major Typesetting Gear
PREGNANT?  Need Help
ADOPTION SERVICES, PREGNANCY TESTING, ETC. . . . 
NATIONAL FAMILY PLANNING COUNCIL, LTD.
Call: (215) 457-4139 Philadelphia, Pa.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, Decerrter 12, 1972-Page 5
Announcements:
Food Service: Christmas Schedule: Dining
plan ends with breakfast on Thursday, De
cember 21, 1972 and begins again with 
evening supper January 7, 1973 from 4:15 
pm to 7:00 pm.
The Kiltie Cafe will be open every day 
during the Christmas Recess. Hours will be: 
Breakfast: 7:30 am to 10:00 am; Snack 
Bar: 10:00 am to 11:30 am; Luncheon: 
11:30 am to 2:00 pm; Snack Bar: 2:00 pm 
to 4:15 pm; Dinner: 4:15 pm to 7:00 pm.
The Tartan Grill will be open every 
evening except Christmas Eve, Christmas 
Day, New Year's Eve, and New Year's Day. 
Hours will be: 7:00 pm to midnight.
All books are due in the Library on
December 12. If you need to use books 
beyond that date, please bring them to the 
circulation desk of Hunt Library or En
gineering and Science Library to have the 
loan period extended.
There will be a Voice Recital featuring
Roberta Cunningham and Debra Johnson, 
on Wednesday, Dec. 13 at 8:30 pm. in 
Exhibition Hall, College of Fine Arts. It is 
free and open to the public.
Mellon Institute Chorus to Sing Songs of
Christmas Season.
Bells on bobtail ring,
'Cause the M.l. Chorus will sing 
"Songs of the Christmas Season
This year's program will be presented on 
Friday, December 15, 1972 at 8:30 P.M. in 
the Mellon Institute Auditorium. Refresh
ments will be served in the Conference 
Room after the program.
Office Services Department, Porter Hall
27A, is now open during the noon hour, 
Monday through Friday. Regular hours will 
be maintained during the Christmas 
vacation.
Men's Dormitory Council will present
"Bullitt"; a special free showing registra
tion day, January 8, 1973 at 5:30, 8:00 
and 10:30 in DH 2210. This feature head
lines what promises to be a good semester 
for movie goers. This semester's top shows 
include: "Shaft", March 10; ''Willard", 
February 10; "Beneath" and "Escape from 
the Planet of the Apes in a double feature 
March 17; and "The President's Analyst", 
January 13. A special study break will be 
shown on May 5 featuring the Marx 
Brothers in "Horse Feathers. All films will 
be in DH 2210; watch Tartan announce
ments for times and changes.
Compact Refrigerators and other
appliances for rent. Low amperage (1.4 
amps), approved for dormitories. Share 
with roommate or a friend-be prepared for 
the long study sessions ahead-eat and drink 
better. Call 279-7951 after 7 p.m.
Sometimes flying standby 
is mostly standing by.
Thats why Northwest came up 
with Reserved Youth Fare.
Camping out is great. But not at an airport. 
Sometimes, unfortunately, it turns out that 
way. Now, though, weve done something 
about it.
If you have any airline Youth Card, you can 
get a reserved seat for 20% off. Make a reser
vation and when flight time comes, just walk 
in and take your seat along with all the other
important people. No waiting. No worrying. 
No getting bumped off the plane when you 
really wanted to go all the way home.
If you dont have a Northwest Youth Card, 
you should. And you can get one at any North
west ticket office or your campus travel agent. 
(Be sure to bring along proof that youre 
between 12-22.)
Next time you cant afford to wait, remem
ber Northwests Reserved Youth Fare. And 
call your travel agent or Northwest Airlines.
FLY NORTHWEST ORIENT
P.S. STANDBY FARES. To those of you who dont
mind standing by in airports and even
think its sort of neat because you meet interesting
people there: your Youth Card can still get
you Northwests regular standby youth
fare40% off Coach.
The Chabad (Lubavitcher) Chassidim invite
Jewish college students to spend a Sabbath 
weekend with them. The "encounter will 
comprise almost four days of active 
Chassidic living. Where? Brooklyn, New 
York. When? December 21-24 for women, 
December 28-31 for men. The program 
highlights include seminars, classes, work
shops on Chassidic handicrafts, art, and 
music, and a unique gathering: the farbrengen. For information, call locally: 
422-8034, Rabbi Katzen.
Library Hours at both Hunt and E&S have
been extended. The new hours are as 
follows: Monday-Friday: 8:00 am-2:00
am; Saturday: 9:00 am-2:00 am; Sunday: 
1:00 pm-2:00 am.
These new hours will be in effect from 
December 8 through December 18 to facili
tate studying for final examinations.
Classified Ads>
Must sell small refrigerator by December
15. Asking $65, will take highest offer. Call 
Alison, 422-8568.
Wanted: Potter's Wheel, Electric, second
hand, 621-0893.
Ski Boots Molitor Buckle Size 9 Wide Min.
use Phone Don 441-2102 Evenings.
Tire 600-15 Dunlap forVW Fastback new.
Phone Don 441-2102 Evenings.
Draft Counseling provided by Attorney
without charge. Sponsored by B'nai B'rith 
Hillel Foundation, 315 S. Beliefield, 3rd 
floor. Every Tuesday evening 7 to 8:30 
pm. 621-8875.
Skis: Brand New, Never Used Kastle Cmt
60 fiberglass skis. 195 cm Salomon 40 step 
in bindings Gipron Italian racing poles. 
Price $125 complete. Value $200. Phone 
621-3679.
RESUME
Professionally prepared 
at low student rates.
ALLEGHENY 
RESUME SERVICE
7152 JENKINS ARCADE
391-2044
RUGSfor |ee
wMiywrlDCartl
1000 9x12 Ruge 
SIS S19 S29 S49
M kK 1*1* IfeIR ML
MMOOMS, UVtMOtOOM* tic. 
AVAJIAMJ AT NCAMV SHOWROOMS
MpMtor Ckmk% WMwA^Ohin.
CHASES
4M WAIMUT tTBtVT, IHAfTHM
Of*4 DAJLY 10 M. to 9 pj* 
(Setvr*py 10 .M. tm 3. Cm* 11-1!

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6THE TARTANTuesday, December 12, 1972
Placements Expands Role, 
Moves To Warner Hall
Tight Job Market Easing 
GSIA Grads Lead In Pay
Editors Note:This is the first of a series of articles which attempts to explain in detail the various services available to the students at thisUniversity.____________________by Steve Jurman
Bureau of Placements Director Dennis 
Ryan perceives Placements to be rapidly 
changing from an employment agancy to 
a career services center. While the primary 
function remains what Ryan terms the 
bread and butter issue of preparing credantials and putting job-seekers in touch 
with prospective employers, the Placement 
Office is striving to be a greater resource 
for career counseling and planning, and for 
preparing students for such experiences as 
interviewing.
The Bureaus library, once a repository 
only for recruitment pamphlets, is adding 
literature on career projections, such as 
what will be available in coming years, 
where it will be, and what skills will be 
required. Multi-media resources are also .ap
pearing, such as a cassette presentation de
signed to prepare one for job interviews.
The staff of seven includes three pro
fessionals. Robert Nelson is advisor for stu
dents from CIT, MIS, SUPA, and GSIA. 
Mary Louise Haugh assists those from the 
remaining colleges. Mr. Ryan, in addition 
to managing operations, attempts to coun
sel students whenever possible, feeling it 
important that he be known to students as 
a real person, and to retain communication 
with them. (Placements deals not only with 
currently graduating students, but will as
sist CMU alumni at any point in their ca
reers.)
In September or October of each year 
all seniors are contacted, given some litera
ture on the mechanics of preparing resumes 
and job hunting, and invited for an initial 
interview with the Placement personnel. At 
that interview the counselor tries to deter
mine in what area the student is interested 
(and help refine that if necessary) offers 
assistance in preparing resumes and out
lines the reference resources available. If an 
individual has specific geographic desires, 
the Bureau will attempt to obtain informa
tion from counterparts in that region. The 
counselors will also help individuals pre
pare skills and strategies for applications 
and interviews.
Mr. Ryan feels strongly that Placements 
does not get people jobs; people get the 
jobs for themselves on the basis of their 
skills and talents. It is the responsibility of
career or job hunting students to use the 
Bureaus library, to watch the bulletin 
board for recruiting announcements, to 
show up promptly for interviews and to be 
prepared to convince employers!
It was stressed that it is of special inportance for career seeking students to have 
up-to-date resumes on file at the Placement 
Office, for employers will frequently re
quest, on short notice, applicants with spe
cific backgrounds and skills. With resumes 
ready, the staff can immediately respond.
The employers who actually come re
cruiting are primarily from the manufac
turing industries. The different levels of 
government and service industries, specif
ically consultant types of firms, also do 
some recruiting. The social service kinds of 
employers do virtually no active recruiting 
at CMU.
This is largely due, it was explained, to a 
prevailing image of CMU as Tech, a fine 
place to obtain engineers or scientists, but 
no one else. That image is beginning to be 
dispelled, partially because Placements has 
adapted some public relations duties- Em
ployers receive from Placements informa
tion, such as reprints, explaining all aspects 
of education at CMU and promoting the 
quality of the students trained here.
Placements also assists sutdents in ob
taining summer jobs, though, as Ryan 
noted, this task is always difficult and is 
especially so in recent years. The Office 
will identify potential employers for stu
dents, both in the Pittsburgh area and else
where, and some listings do appear by mail. 
It is suggested that seekers register with 
Placements as early as possible, for many 
employers will request summer help by tel
ephone, and seek elsewhere if not given 
names immediately.
Placements is scheduled to take up new 
quarters on the concourse (opposite the 
Cashiers Office) of Warner Hall, and Rayn 
expects the move to be made by January 
15. He stressed that the new facilities have 
been prepared to put fewer obstacles be
tween staff and students than the present 
office in Skibo.
For the future, the Placements staff 
hopes to become involved in career semi
nars and speakers, and in providing more 
extensive published material. They hope to 
be able to provide more and better career 
counseling, beginning earlier than the 
senior year. But, as Dennis Ryan stated, 
we cant do this job alone. We need to 
build more sensitivity to those needs.
A major function of Placements remains arranging student interviews with pros
pective employers.
photo by Henry Collins
| by Joan McCluskey
There you were at Thanksgiving dinner, 
eating yourself sick and really having a 
good time, and then Aunt Lottie leans across the table and shifts her chins and 
asks,So what are you going to do when 
you graduate?
You choke on a cranberry .and say, 
Well, there are so many things. .. Im not 
absolutely sure just yet. A little more 
wine and youve recovered, but aunts have 
a way of asking the one thing you dont 
know and dont want to .
The U.S. is just now beginning to re
cover from a recession which left many 
people choking on their cranberries. It be
gan in 1967. According to Mr. Dennis 
Ryan, Director of the Bureau of Place
ments at CMU, Ph.D.s in chemistry, phy
sics and mathematics were ther first ones 
affected. By the spring of 1969, B.A.s and 
B.Sc.s across the board were having 
trouble finding jobs. The recession in
creased in severity, and the class of 1971 
had real problems finding employment. It 
wasnt until the fall of 1971 that the first 
signs of a recovery began to show.
The Placement Bureau of CMU, an or
ganization whose sole purpose is finding 
jobs for students, was a good barometer of 
the employment market during those 
years. The first indication of an improve
ment came when employers began asking 
for experienced workers, through the 
Alumni Placement Bureau. By the spring of
1972, the recovery was really on its way, 
and through the summer an increasing 
number of graduates found jobs. The Bu
reau is even now receiving requests for 
1972 graduates.
Though the job market has definitely 
improved, it has by no means fully recov
ered, norm has there been -any dramatic 
upsurge in the number of employment op
portunities. Unlike other recessions, which 
came and went quickly, this one quickly, 
this one has been long and serious. Em
ployers are still afraid of overextending 
themselvs. Whereas before they might have 
said, Were not sure how man how many 
well need but well take 100 graduates, 
they now say, In June well take 20, and 
in Sept., and maybe again in November. .
They will put in requests for more em
ployees, but always in small quantities, and 
only after theyve thoroughly assessed their 
financial situation.
Concerning specific areas of employ
ment, engineers on a Bachelors level as 
well as GSIA graduates are both finding 
work.Those with advanced engineering de
grees, or in other fields of science, are still 
having some problems. Humanities gradu
ates have always had a difficult time here, 
and now real effort is needed to secure a 
good job. The Placement Bureau helps in 
preparing an preparing an effective resume, 
and provides the names of employers who 
might be interested. The student then 
writes letters, and often must talk to the 
prospective employer in person. With per
severance, he will usually be suuccessful.
Todays employer is interested in actual 
skills. He wants to hire people for specific 
jobs, who can begin almost immediately. A 
good personality and a degree are no longer 
enough to get and keep a job. Humanities 
graduates suffer most; they often have no 
definite skill to offer. C.I.T. students are 
affected as well, however. There may be 
more prospective employers, but the stu
dent himself has to find and keep the job, 
and competition is stiff. Large companies 
are no longer hiring masses of new people 
each fall. DuPont, for example, used to
Placements Director Dennis Ryan wants to ex
pand career services at C MU.
photo by Henry Collins
hire as many as 1,000 workers every year. 
In 1972, it hired less than 70.
The desire for people with definite skills 
has affected even the fine arts. In the 
Drama dept., it is the tecnical and lighting 
majors who are in demand. Music majors 
usually enroll in the teaching option, and 
music teachers are also in demand.
Teaching is not, however, the golden 
retreat it once was. Specific geographic 
locations and specific occupations offer 
opportunities. In rural areas, such as in the 
south, the midwest and the Rocky Moun
tain states, jobs are available. Teachers of 
vocational arts, music, special education 
and physical education are those most 
likely to find positions.
Degrees in many fields are not as valu
able as they once were. The government 
has cut out research and development pro
grams, and business opportunities have be
come limited. Therefore, many science 
and engineering degrees do not have the 
intrinsic value they once held. Junior col
leges who once deemed themselves lucky 
to have an M.A. on their staff are now
with letters from Ph.D.s. As a result of this 
tight market, the number of graduate 
students has declined.
Do you dream of wall-to-wall carpeting 
and trips to Monte Vi do? The fabled 
green-eyed monster has a new name: the 
almighty dollar. Behind every job is a 
desire to live as comfortably and as happily 
as possible, and eight months of ground 
chuck in a one-roomer on the bad side of 
town is not how most people envision 
spending their green years.
Yet accompanying each recession is a 
decline in the pay scale. Whereas several 
years ago a 5% to 7% annual increase in 
'wage was normal, this year 1% to 2% is the 
expected amount. GSIA grads lead the 
CMU moneymakers, averaging $1300 a 
month on graduation. They, however, are 
an exception, earning more than any other 
graduates in the country holding similar 
degrees. Chemical engineers follow, earning 
from $935 - $940 per month on gradua
tion. Electrical engineers average about $35 
less, and B.A. holders earn about $800 
($680 to $700 for government positions).
Minority groups such as blacks and 
women are being offered jobs in previously 
inaccessable areas, such as engineering. 
Women have previously tended to marriage 
upon graduation, and expressed little desire 
to work outside the home. Today, how
ever, many either opt in favor of a career 
over marriage, or else plan to continue 
working after marriage.
It is difficult to find a job. (It is hard to 
choke on cranberries...) The Placement 
Office is trying to make it easier, but it 
takes real effort and determination on the 
part of the individual, plus a certain 
amount of flexibility, to find a happy and 
satisfying position.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, December 12, 1972Page 7
X)ay Care Center QoaL 
Children Kelate Zo Others
by Debbie Siegel
In August 1971, a group of parents who 
worked in various capacities for CMU came 
together with the idea of forming a Day 
Care Center. They were allocated twenty 
thousand dollars from the university and 
are regulated by the state. The Day Care 
Center is located behind the More wood 
Cafeteria and is open to children of ages 
three, four, and five, whose parents are 
students, faculty, staff, or alumni of CMU. 
It is open from 7:30 am to 5:30 pm and at 
the present time is considering extending 
the hours. Tuition is paid according to the 
time the child stays during the week and 
the income of their parents.
Janice Miller, Director and Group 
Supervisor of the Center, has expressed her 
ideas on the content of the program for the 
children and the emphasis of flexibility. 
We gear the day to the childs develop
ment and socialization. There are some ac
tivities which are set routines such as play
ing with wheel toys and puzzles, lunch 
time where the children often serve them
selves, and a quiet period at 2:30. The 
children are only taught to read informally 
through charts and relating pictures. They 
have chairs with their names and tote 
boxes for their own materials. We usually 
try to go outside two times a day if the 
weather permits. The most important part 
of the program is that children relate to 
others in this new environment. When 
Mrs. Miller was asked if the children show 
any resentment to the idea of being left in 
the center, she explained that such a feel
ing is rarely present except in individual 
cases. She added, Parents often become 
resentful when the child doesnt want to
leave the center. Most children are anxious 
to come and one of the hardest things for 
them to grasp is a concept of the days of 
the week. On Saturday, they wake up look
ing for activities theyve become used to. 
At this time there are 32 children en
rolled on either a part or full time basis and 
the center can accomodate 40 full time 
children at its present size. The staff child 
ratio is one to seven. (Note the faculty 
student ratio at CMU). There are three full 
time members and two have BAs in Child 
Psychology and have shown interest in 
child care. In addition to this, there are 
two part time members on the staff, an 
intake social worker who interviews pa
rents for purposes of admitting children, 
and a girl who cooks the lunches. Any 
person interested in applying for a job at 
the center must apply through the univer
sity personnel office. The Day Care Center 
welcomes any students who may want to 
help on a voluntary basis. Last year, stu
dents would occasionally come and cook 
lunch or substitute for absent staff. As 
cited Mrs. Miller, It is nice for the child
ren to have contact with older people other 
than their parents. When they have contact 
with others, it builds their knowledge of 
the world. An architecture student built a 
castle which the children love to play in, 
and design students painted the stage. We 
are happy if students want to do projects 
that may aid us.
At this time, the Day Care Center is 
satisfied with their facilities and hopes to 
continue serving the campus community. 
Mrs. Miller made special mention of David 
Ginevan, head of housing and food service, 
who has been the university representative 
to the Day Care Center and has been par
ticularly helpful in its formation.
Staff and student volunteers care for Carnegie Mellon University offspring at 
the Day Care Center located in the basement of Morevvood Gardens.
photo by John Shettel
C-MU Children's School 
Teaches Kids, Teachers
by Debbie Siegel
Our approach in educating men and 
women in teacher education corresponds 
to the way in which we approach educating 
children in the Carnegje Mellon University 
Childrens School, explained Dr. Ann 
Baldwin Taylor, director of the CMU Chil
drens School and an instructor in child 
development. There are 46 children from 
the ages of three to six years old. The three 
and four year olds spend a half day at the 
school while the five year olds stay for a 
full day this year, where they plan the 
activities they wish to participate in. For 
example, they choose a menu for lunch 
and cook some of their own food. As Dr. 
Taylor added, We want the child to es
tablish a concept of the self and feel trust 
towards the teacher. The child should 
understand why he is there and why the 
teacher is there. The child must be given 
the opportunity to figure out things for 
himself.
The facilities of the school are divided 
into different areas where the child may 
work on a subject for as long as his interest 
lasts. There are no specific times for ac
tivities where tchild would have to give up 
what he was doing when he was already 
involved. Through an explanation of 
language, children learn to read. In the 
center of the room there is a booth to 
observe the children and hear what they 
are saying. It is blocked by mirrors on the 
outside so the child has no idea that he is 
being watched. When he looks into the 
mirror he will often enjoy seeing his image 
reflected.
When parents submeit applications for 
their children, the philosophy of the school 
is explained through a Parent Education 
handbook. The parents may also come and 
observe their children in this bounderstand 
the progressive motions of their child bet
ter. In the evenings some parent workshops 
are given and mothers often come into the 
classroom to assist the teacher. The criteria 
for choosing the children is based on the 
factors of age, sex, date of application, 
socio economic status and the place in the 
family. Approximately fifteen children are 
accepted per year and tuition is between 
400 and 500 dollars a year depending on 
the length of day the child stays, (five year 
olds stay the whole day as compared to 
three and four year olds) There is a scholar
ship program for children whose parents 
may be less affluent.
In 1968, the ESSO Educational Foun
dation gave a grant to CMU and Chatham 
for the purpose of studying existing pro
grams for teachers of the preschool com
ponent with the aim of improving the 
existing cooperative program of teacher edYoung students and student teachers both
learn at CMU Children's School.
photo by John Shettel
ucation. The program offers dual certifica
tion: Nursery School through Grades three 
and Kindergarten through Grade six. Once 
the student has observed the children in 
the booth and become familiar with the 
layout of the room, the student may work 
with the children. Trough field work at the 
Childrens School or at a Pittsburgh Public 
School, the student may gain a sense of self 
awareness as related to the teaching role 
and how it affects the child. The program 
is composed of six courses which are usual
ly taken in a particular sequence. The pro
gram is taken in addition to a major and 
the student must save half a day per course 
to work in the classroom. At this time, 
about 75 percent of the students in the 
program are pschyhology majors and most 
of the others are in English or history. 
Students are required to keep a journal in 
they may relate their experiences in ob
serving the children and how to solve their 
problems.
In January each year, students may 
travel to East Anglia, England and work in 
schools with children as they live with a 
British family. This program was worked 
out with the Council on Education in 
England so the students may have a con
cept of the English system of education.
The creation of this school has provided 
a unique opportunity for a special kind of 
teaching which is not facilitated in the lim
itations imposed on a public school. Dr. 
Taylor expressed the hope that the pro
gram may be reestablished in the future 
with a budget that will encompass all the 
things that the school could be to achieve a 
balance in the education of the child and 
the student teacher.
Ten forty-three 
In exactly TWO MIN
UTES Ill ring the 
FIRST BELL and 
theyll all 
stand still !
All, that is, except 
your potential DEVIATE! 
Your fledgling REBEL! 
Your incipient BOATROCKER! tHEY'LL try 
to move all right! 
THEYLL have 
to learn tire HARD 
way not to move!
So I'll SCREAM at 'em 
and take their NAMES 
and give them FIVE 
DETENTIONS AND EXTRA 
HOMEWORK! NEXT time 
they won't move 
after the first 
bell !
Theyll grow up to accept 
TAXES! HOUSING DVELOPMENTS! INSURANCE! WAR! 
MEN ON THE MOON! LIQUOR! 
LAWS! POLITICAL SPEECHES! 
PARKING METERS! 
TELEVISION!
FUNERALS!
Because when they've 
learned not to question 
the FIRST BELL, they'l 
learn not to question 
their TEXTS! Their 
TEACHERS! Their 
COURSES! 
EXAMINATIONS!
Non-movement after 
the first bell is
the backbone 
of Western 
Civilization!
If the reader will take notice of the by-lines on this page, he (or she) will see the name Debbie Siegel. At this time, we thought it a good 
opportunity to tell the world what the TARTAN Editors have always known. No matter what her work load, Debbie is always willing to put herself 
out for the TARTAN and thus for the Universtiy. It is staff members like Miss. Siegel, whom Steve urman was particularly talking about in this 
week's editorial. EDITORS

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8THE TARTANTuesday, December 12, 1972
December, 13-19
WOODSTOCK
and
GIMMIE SHELTER
SOUTH HILLS THEATRE, v 
DORMONT
Student: Rate....$1.00
561-1100
ENTERTAINMENT
Theatre Review Films and Television
Last of the Savage Messiah
The New Sun
by Woodro Celt
Red Hot Lovers
by Susan N. Klein
One of the safest things a regional 
theatre such as the Playhouse can under
take is a Neil Simon comedy. A Simon play 
is usually considered unbombable, and 
hence his works deep popping up all over 
the country and probably will be for years 
to come. Simons lines are quick, cunning 
and clever, his plays are never difficult to 
stage, and best of all, can be done inexpen
sively. For these reasons, regional com
panies usually let themselves slip into 
mediocrity whenever they do Simon. 
Throughout the Playhouse production of 
Last of the Red Hot Lovers, there is a 
pervasive air of we just threw this one 
together quick, but its still funny as hell, 
isnt it?
Simons play concerns Barney Cashman, 
a 47 year old owner of a fish restaurant 
who after 23 years of marriage attempts 
and fails at three affairs. This play ran for 
two years on Broadway during which time 
James Coco, having gotten star-status, 
went through dozens of leading ladies in 
the three womens roles. But soon after 
Coco left, the play closed, no reflection on 
the talents of Cocos replacement Dom 
DeLuise, but merely underscoring the fact 
that the role was written for Coco himself, 
and a Coco-type just wouldnt do. I know a 
lot of people who stayed away from the 
movie version of 'Lovers for just that 
reason. So here we are in Pottsburgh and 
we have Ted Chapmann running around
trying to be not Barney Cashman, but
James Coco. Physical resemblance is not
enough, and combined with annoying hand
gestures and a sickening
old-Jewish-man-whine
delivery of every single line, Chapman gives
a performance best described as shallow.
The ladies of the evening performed 
adequately, although the Playhouse 
audience responded much more warmly to 
the final scene, where middle-aged friend 
Jeanette, played by Ann Muffly. The other 
womens performances were no less steady, 
but audience identification was an impor
tant factor in this performance. Kathy^ 
Ruffo seemed to have uncomfortable kirection for her scene because she spent 
entirely too much time pacing aimlessly. 
Barbara Lynn Block gave perhaps the best 
of the four performances as a psychopathic 
unemployed actress. Ken Costigans direc
tion was basically too broad for either the 
play or these actors. There was an excess of 
crossing and pacing and Simons lines are 
too good to be buried with movement.
This production is still pleasant enough 
in the long run, the audience still leaves in 
a nice mood, but there is something miss
ing here. This play needs a certain spark of 
energy, a cohesive force to bring the ele
ments together. Coco must be done with 
Man of La Mancha by now...
by Fredrick Gormley
Again I am in the position of having to 
make a judgement on a film that clearly 
defies any sort of categorization: the last 
time this happened to me was Marjoe, 
and now I encounter the same problem 
with Ken Russells Savage Messiah.
Two impressions caught me instantly 
while viewing the film. The first was the 
beautiful smoky quality of the cinematog
raphy; the kind one imagines Victorian 
Christmases to have been made of. And 
secondly, that the film itself is a compen
dium of the past four major Russell re
leases, Women in Love, (The St. Vitus 
Dance love making), The Music Lovers, 
(representation of the upper class as an 
orgiastic body), The Devils, (grey arch
ways and other superficialities), and The 
Boyfriend, (cheap-jack musical entertain
ment in the body of the film).
Russell tends toward stage conventions 
in this one. When the two leads are making 
the point through their actions that they 
are the only living things in the Louvre and 
that art is to be touched and felt but not 
worshipped, Russell has the other visitors 
to the museum frozen in various attitudes; 
actually frozen, no slight gesture move
ment allowed. The message is thrown at us.
I have no complaints with the acting. 
Dorothy Tutin as Sophie Brzeska is better 
than her Anne Boleyn in The Six Wives of 
Henry VIII, which is a tough one to fol
low. Her portrayal of the older womancompanion that Henri Gaudier falls in love 
with is one of the all-time best representa
tions of a woman capable of completion 
finding her completion factor. She presents 
you with a portrait of a sensitive passionate 
person so vividly, and so in love with all 
things natural that you actually feel her 
delight (again, Christmas; the child coming 
down the steps and seeing the presents) 
when a room loaded with a treasure of 
birds eggs and butterfly wings is laid open 
before her. She should not be ignored 
when the best performances of the year are 
listed.
Point of the film: People have been 
looking in vain for the definition of love. 
Youre a fool if you believed any bit of 
Love Story, and even a bigger dunce if 
you even considered that love might ac
tually mean never having to say youre 
sorry. Love is more varied in its passions 
and levels than Hollywood ever wanted to 
believe. Now the reparations are beginning, 
and Savage Messiah could very well be 
the standard-bearer of a wave of as it is 
films on the subject of love, and one mans 
tribute to truth.
The Pittsburgh New Sun was distributed 
on campus for the first time this week. The 
New Sun has a Rolling Stone type format 
with long feature articles, an interview, and 
fuzzy photographs. The newspaper focuses 
on the readership of people between the 
ages of 18 and 30 and on their interests. 
Rock and Roll, plays, books, movies, con
certs, food, and oddities are featured in the 
new publication.
The thing that interests me most about 
the New Sun is the question of where the 
money is coming from to support its free 
distribution on the Pittsburgh campuses. I 
thought about this and eliminated as 
patrons the Ford Foundation, the Federal 
government, and the mellons. Then I 
remembered something that happened to 
me a couple of weeks ago. I was 
hitch-hiking from Point Breeze to East 
liberty when an older woman in an 
Eldorado stopped to give me a lift. I 
looked at her and noticed that she wore 
bell bottomed jeans. We talked and it 
turned out that she was very hip and an 
heiress to a natural gas fortune. I went 
home with her to a house near Highland 
Park and we drank cognac and talked 
about art and the Revolution. She told me, 
Pittsburgh is where the Avant-garde is. I 
didnt know what she was talking about 
but I pretended to and nodded my head. 
We talked for a while longer and then I 
left. That was the last time I saw her.
It occured to me that there might be an 
underground of hip people with money 
who support fringe projects like the New 
Sun. The thought warmed my heart.
Regardless of how the New Sun is 
funded, it is a good thing for Pittsburgh. Its 
editor invites the readers to participate by 
submitting fiction, poetry, opinion, and 
articles. His invitation reveals the New 
Suns promise as a forum for the 
sub-culture of its readers. If the paper can 
get good writers and maintain a sharp 
focus, it may survive.
Take it from one with a man-sized 
yen, men. When a *Big Man on Campus 
gets a big thirst, it takes a big drink to 
satiate it. And nothing. I repeat nothing, 
titillates the tonsils and taunts a thirst 
like Akadama Red, Fred.
Akadama RedThe toast of the campus.
The last of the red hot lovers surrounded by the last of the red hots.imported by Sunory International. Los Angeles. Calif

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, December 12, 1972Paqe 9
Dance
Me (minus the ballerina)
Peter Schaufuss, Siegfried in "Swan Lake.
by Nonie Dempsey
The ballerina was busy last Friday night 
so I offered the extra ticket to my room
mate (whod never been in Heinz Hall or 
seen a ballet) and together we went down
town for the opening of Swan Lake. We 
were both impressed, it was the finest per
formance I have seen, thus far, given by the 
Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre and the enor
mous Christmas tree in the Hall was 
splendid.
Swan Lake is the fairy tale story of 
handsome prince Siegfried (Peter Schau
fuss) who falls madly in love with Odette 
(Dagmar Kessler), a beartiful girl who has 
been transformed into a swan by an evil 
magician. Only for a short time each mid
night are Odette and her companions per
mitted to resume their human form. The 
Queen mother decides it is time that 
Siegfried marry but at a dance given in his 
honer, none of the possible brides are to 
his liking. Suddenly Odette enters and the 
Prince is in ectasy. But it is not Odette, 
only the evil magicians daughter Odile
(also danced by Dagmar Kessler) who as
sumes the likeness of Odette, (the plot 
thickens) The prince dances with Odile and 
asks for her hand in marriage. Odettess 
spirit sorrowfully beats at the window. 
Siegfried realizes his error and kills the evil 
magician in a struggle for Odette. Every
body lives happily ever after (except the 
magician).
This was the Pittsburgh Ballet Theatres 
second time around at Swan Lake; that 
incidental along with the fine dancing of 
Dagmar Kessler and Peter Schaufuss ex
plained the unusually enjoyable evening. 
All technical aspects were approached tra
ditionally; the carbon dioxide mist swirling 
up from the. floor int he Second Act was a 
real audience pleaser. Miss. Kessler was 
gracefully expert and Schaufuss had the 
audience begging for more. Despite the 
number of talented specialty dancers fea
tured throughout, the ballet was essentially 
a two-person show and Kessler and 
Schaufuss definitely deserve showing off.

rfrc
A 
R 
T 
O
O
N
/y\\ -tV\5 ssoo^cJs

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10 - THE TARTAN-Tuesday, December 12, 1972
GreetingsSeason's
From The Council Of 
Fraternity Presidents
Junior Year 
in New York
Washington Square College of Arts and Science 
of New York University sponsors a Junior Year in New York.
The College, located in the heart of the city, is an. 
integral part of the exciting metropolitan community 
of New York Citythe business, cultural, artistic, 
and financial center of the nation. The citys extraordi
nary resources greatly enrich both the academic 
program and the experience of living at New York 
University with the most cosmopolitan student body 
in the world.
This program is open to students recommended by the 
deans of the colleges to which they will return for 
their degrees.
There are strong and varied offerings in many areas, 
such as fine arts, urban studies, languages including 
non-European, mathematics in the College and at the 
Courant Institute, psychology, and others.
A qualified student may register for courses in all other 
schools of the University, including the specializations in 
Commerce and Education.
The University sponsors programs in Spain and France.
Write for brochure to Director,Junior Year in New York
New York University
New York, N.Y. 10003
o o n , Jttountain 7r<nl Shop
TENTS -SLEEPING BAGS 
l BACKPACKS and FRAMES 
 HIKING and CLIMBING BOOTS 
 FOOD  STOVES  COOKWARE 
 ROPE and HARDWARE 
 DOWN CLOTHING
COMPLETE ACCESSORIES  RENTAL EQUIPMENT 
SHADYSIDE - 5435 Walnut Street (2nd floor)
MURRYSVILLE - 4758 Old William Penn Highway 
Weekdays 12-9  Saturday 9-5  687-1700
2506 Liberty Ave. (next to Locante's Restaurant
Weekdays 12-9  Saturday 9-5 Closed Wednesday  343-9966
America may be becoming the land of 
the free and the home of the bored, 
according to the testimony of the doctors 
who treat patients for simple boredom. 
Decembers SCIENCE DIGEST reports 
that running and other vigorous exercise 
are two things doctors suggest as antidotes. 
Another tells his patients to go to bed and
not get up until they can think of some
thing they really want to do. But be
havioral scientists are interested in more 
than just keeping people busy. Research in 
sensory deprivation shows that anger, 
hostility and even LSD-like hallucinations 
result from the simple and widespread 
feeling of being bored with life.
Javed Khan, number one man of Moonlighters, in his playoff match with Rick Lipes of
Physics. Both teams had 5 - 1 regular season records; in the playoffs, Lipes defeated
Khan, 2 - 0, and Physics won 2-1. photo by Henry Collins
photo by Henry CollinsSkaters Crush Pitt Favored For Title
by David Girdany
CMU defeated Pitt 4 to 3 in an exciting, 
brutal hockey game on Sunday, December 
3rd. Mike Gallaway led the Tartans with 
two goals and CMU never trailed in the 
game, although the score was knotted at 
one each for a short time in the second 
period.
The Tartans won the game by taking the 
action to the Panthers. With Rick Farman 
and LeRoy Bauer playing excellent de
fense, and Jeff Hart looking magnificent in 
goal, CMU was able to continually thwart 
the potent Pitt offense.
Throughout the game, the physically 
bigger Pitt team tried to beat the Tartans 
into submission, but the smaller Tartans 
withstood these attacks and carried the 
play to Pitt.
After the Panthers tied the game in the 
second period, the Tartans took the lead 
for good when Mike Kenworthy, carrying 
the puck up center ice, passed to Gallaway 
on his left wing and Gallaway beat the Pitt 
goalie with a good shot inside the far post. 
The lead increased when, with the puck in 
the Pitt zone, Rich Eastman passed back to 
Rick Farman on the point and Farman 
shot the puck toward the Pitt goal, where 
Jim Powers tipped it in. Pitt then scored to 
pull within one, but Kenworthy made the 
margin two again, scoring with the help of
Bauer and Farman. The second period 
ended as the score read CMU-4, Pitt-2.
Early in the third period, Tartan hopes 
suffered a blow when Mike Gallaway, car
rying the puck deep in the Pitt zone, was 
checked and fell to the ice in pain. (Al
though h missed the rest of the game, 
Mike appears to be fine now.) Pitt closed 
to within one after that, but Jeff Hart 
made save after save to preserve CMUs 
first hockey victory over the Panthers. The 
final minute, in which the Pitt goalie was 
removed in favor of an extra attacker, was 
a hectic one, but Hart, the defense, and 
some luck closed the door on the Panthers 
to make CMU a favorite for the league 
title. But one cant be too sure. Another 
game with Pitt is yet to come.
On Wednesday, December 6, CMU 
skated to a three to three tie with Indiana 
at the Belmont Arena in Kittanning. Le
Roy Bauer scored one goal and Mike Ken
worthy added two. Indiana scored in the 
last minute to tie the game.
Scoring Summary of the Pitt game: 
Period 1: (1) CMU-Gallaway (Ken
worthy, Molnar)
Period 2: (2) Pitt-Clarke (unassisted) (3) 
CMU-Gallaway (Kenworthy) (4) CMUPowers (Farman, Eastman) (5) PittBohnson (Williams) (6) CMU-Kenworthy 
(Bauer, Farman)
Period 3: Pitt-Lang (Bohnson)

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, December 12, 1972Page 11
The bike racks, promised for October 1, have finally arrived and have been installed at necessary 
locations such as Science, Doherty, Scaife, Donner, and Porter Halls to mention but a few, with 
more waiting to be put in. The bike racks completely surround the bicycle placed in them, and 
when used with the high security padlocks soon to be available at the bookstore will make bicycle 
theft virtually impossible. The six new racks cost the Security Department $2000 and can 
accomadate about one hundred vehicles.
photo by John Shettel
WITH THE COMING OF THE NEW ACADEMIC SEMESTER 
COMES THE DEMAND FOR AN EXPANDED 
TARTAN STAFF
IF YOU ARE INTERESTED IN WHATS HAPPENING, ENTERTAINMENT, 
PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS, OR JUST LIFE IN GENERAL
JOIN THE TARTAN STAFF
contact us in room 50 in Skibo or call 682*4557
OAKLAND HARDWARE & TOY CO.
_MU's _onvenient He1dqu1rters 
fot H1rdw1re
Desk Lamps ** Key Service ^ Artist Brushes 
** Hot Plates Poster Paints ** School Supplies
3606 Forbes Avenue OAKLAND Phone 621-0923
ABORTION
Information
PREGNANCY TEST AVAILABLE
An Abortion can be arranged 
within 24 hours
You can return home the same day you leave.
Call Colled 
215  735  8100
Open 7 Days A Week
Pregnant? 
Need Help?
For assistance and information 
on a confidential basis . . . call 
us  we will help you.
COLLEGE 
CAMPUSES 
FOR 
WOMEN'S 
RIGHTS 
(215) 449 2006
(215) 449-2007
Iany time)
Does your personality invite disease? 
Although many doctors refute it, there is 
evidence that a relationship exists between 
the kind of person you are and the disease 
you are prone to. From personality clues 
given in an interview, doctors in several 
research projects tried to diagnose physical 
illness. In one trial involving 400 patients, 
100 percent of the hyperthyroid cases, 83 
percent of peptic ulcer and rheumatoid 
arthritis sufferers and 60-67 percent of 
asthma, diabetes and hypertension cases 
were detected. The suprising success of 
psychosomatics studies is reported in a 
book excerpt on the subject in the 
December SCIENCE DIGEST.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-THE TARTAN - Tuesday .December 12, 1972>
CARNEGI E-MEL LON UNIVERSITY
INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE
From: Raymond E. Haynes
Date: May 23, 1972 
Subject: Statements supporting the request 
for academic credit for Physical 
Education.
For the past two years students have 
repeatedly raised the question of academic 
credit for Physical Education courses. The 
EPC has been asked to consider the ques
tion of conferring academic credit for 
courses in Physical Education.
Following are some statements which 
should assist you in support of an affirm
ative recommendation:
Physical Education is education. It is 
only one of many courses offered on cam
pus, yet it plays a very important part in 
contributing to the full development of the 
student personality. Physical education is 
more than exercise; it is more than a mus
cle builder or a circulation quickener; it is 
more than athletic competition. Physical 
education also has health knowledge to im
part, group experiences to offer, the joy of 
effort and achievement to give; the teach
ing of skills in lasting recreative interest as 
its responsibility; it must develop appreci
ation from the standpoint of a spectator 
and reader of sports as well as a participant 
in them. It must always contribute to the 
all-round development and education of 
students.
People getting in shape.
Photo by Greg Nickel
The Issue of Physical Ed.
by Shelley Burhans
People should realize that there is 
more to education then the mind. The 
human mind cannot function unless the 
body is in good condition. Thus stated M. 
Rudy Yaksich of the Physical Education 
Department in response to questions con
cerning the situation of that department at 
CMU. The feelings of the faculty, in light 
of past changes m the physical education 
program, overwhelmingly embracethe be
lief that the detriments to a sound, con
structive program on this campus include 
an ignorance of the necessith of the physi
cal aspect of education, and the administra
tive refusal to allow course credit for men.
Formerly a required program which in
volved 4 semesters of student participation, 
Mr. Stephen Fagan emphasized its com
prehensive qualities, indicating that stu
dents had (and still do) available a mul
titude of course options, from the indivi
dual to the team sports, and had the option 
to divide their two weekly hours in two 
separate courses, as well ad the opportun
ity to participate in team sports at all 
levels. We were teaching eight and more 
hours a day, said Fagan. He emphasized, 
as well, that because credit was awarded 
and attendance subsequently regular, the 
courses themselves were comprehensive 
amd the progress of individual classes un
deterred ( by sporadic student attendance).
Department faculty felt it pathetic 
that one student got it dropped, who 
later apologized to the head of the depart
ment. The student a graduating senior 
three years ago, discontented that he 
couldnt graduate withour the phys. ed. 
cours he needed at the time, brought the 
matter before the student senate. Although 
he still had to take a course, actions resulting from this were effective in deleting the 
requirement. According to faculty mem
bers, the student took golf with Mr. Ray
mond Haynes, Head of the Department of 
Physical Education and Athletics, and later 
expressed that he had enjoyed the course 
immensely, had learned a lot, and was 
sorry for what he had done.
Now,  says Fagan, who teaches diving 
among other courses, instead of teaching 
diving so that students have a full under
standing of the processes and movements 
involved and an ability to exercise the skills 
as well as to teach it themselves, the pro
gress of students and the class is greatly 
inhibited to the point of spending an entire 
semester on basics. The fact that men re
ceive no credit makes it all too easy for 
people to enroll, and then quit when things 
get too hard.
There is discontent that instructors no 
longer have academic standing, as is the 
feeling that this standing is justly deserved. 
The reason given is that they are required 
to hold at least a bachelors degree, that 
most have at least a masters and that 
physical education itself is an integral as
pect of academci education. Says Mr. Paul 
Steva, wrestling coach, There seems to be 
a prevalent attitude that classes in this de
partment are a mass activity, and not a 
learning experience. When we were in 
school, a one and a half hour gym class 
period was often spent in lecture, sitting on 
the floor in gym suits. The H & SS type 
attitude seems to maintain that all p.e. 
involves is rolling a ball around and sweat
ing a little bit in an hour of play. I dont 
buy that attitude; I dont think anyone in 
this department does.
Mr. Haynes, past president of the Penn
sylvania State Association of Health, Phy
sical Education and Recreation and 1971 
recipient of their highest award, the Elmer 
B. Cottrell Award for athletics, cites a 
number of lasting values to physical ed
ucation, its health importance to the card
iovascular and respiratory systems and its 
 contribution to the education of the 
whole person, including the involvement 
in and understanding of the entire cycle 
of learning, applying, doing and teaching. 
Mr. Haynes states that the department is 
not so much calling for a reinstatement of 
the requirement as in getting the students 
who need these activities the most, not 
former basketball players. We have the faci
lities and well-qualified personnel available; 
if a student learns to fence, or swim, or 
golf. . . this is going to carry over. I believe 
that if given an opportunity to have cred
its, we would be doing something valuable 
to the education of the full person . . . 
under the present arrangement, the vigor
ous become moreso, and the weak become 
weaker.
P.E. faculty members questioned ex
pressed a unaminous disapproval of the po
sitions offered in the department, which 
are now relegated to Instructor and Senior 
Instructor. Said Mr. Haynes,  If it is a 
consideration of contact hours with stu
dents, a basketball coach working with 24 
students a day, with an average contact 
time of 2 hours per student, actually has 
more contact hours than an academician, 
not to mention an at least equivalent num
ber of hours in planning and consideration 
of each individual student.
He also stated, We are a service de
partment, not connected to any college. 
On most campuses, the P.E. department 
comes under the liberal arts college; here it 
is the Dean of Student Affairs. When the 
department first under administrative con
sideration for inclusion in the college of H
& SS, Mr. Haynes wrote a position paper 
giving reasons why it could and should be 
in that department, stating that the 
liberating of an individual is not the exclu
sive prerogative of any curricular discipline 
. . . (physical education) can be justified as 
properly as any of the liberal arts dis
ciplines because it contributes to the liber
ation and whole education of the indivi
dual student.
He went on to state in the paper 
that,the skill value of activity courses is 
more widely accepted . . . but even this 
contribution is too narrowly conceived. A 
well-taught activity course can contribute 
to liberating skills of imaginative thinking, 
hypothesizing, experimenting and logical 
reasoning ... all skills traditionally be
lieved to result from liberal arts disciplines. 
Activities can also contribute to the ability 
of making the right decision, the skill nec
essary for plain, everyday relationships. A 
more tangible result is the contribution of 
activity courses to neuro-muscular skills 
that when directed toward recreational act
ivities, provides temporary relief from wor
ries and tensions. Temporary freedom from 
such worries and tensions seems to be a 
growing necessity for physiological and 
psychological survival in our society . . . 
Despite the contributions made by know
ledge and skills, it is through understanding 
that man achieves the ultimate in liberation
The paper was unsuccessful, after going 
through a number of channels. It was 
presented to the Dean of H & SS, then the 
Educational Policies Committee, an ad hoc 
committee, after which it was placed with 
a concurrent student request that ex
tra-curricular activities be given credit, then 
brought before the Athletic Board, where 
the department asked that their request be 
separated from student requests, and final
ly managed to have it dealt with through 
an ad hoc committee of the E.P.C.
Mr. Haynes recently attended the fif
ty-first annual convention of the Pennsyl
vania State Association for Health, P.E. 
and Recreation, as the Exhibits Chariman. 
His summation of the four day conference 
included the idea that the trend has been 
away from a restricted, required program 
for reason that students should the .oppor
tunity to choose . . . For one thing, to do 
something well, you have to enjoy doing it; 
everyone has their own concept of play 
and work. Where volleyball might be 
work to one student and tennis play to 
another, conversely volleyball might be 
play to one student and tennis work to 
another.
When we were told that the require
ment was being dropped, the admini
stration stated that it was to be replaced 
with a strong program, offered to all. We 
tried to warn them of the contradiction in 
this statement if academic was not con
ferred ... We are not calling for a required 
program, and at this time we are simply 
concerned with the universitys recognition 
of the value of a physical education pro
gram to all departments.
The ad hoc committee, which seems to 
have a positive view of our request for 
credit, has now requested that we prepare a 
preface to it, concerning the value of 
sports to the individual. The statement we 
prepare will try to point out that we are 
teaching something; that physical educa
tion is education, through the physical.
The overwhelming consensus of the in
structors was that students should not be 
held back from pursuing interests whether 
it is a question of credit, department or 
major, or whether the department in which 
they desire to elect a course is the Phys. 
Ed. or the Fine Arts.
Mr. Haynes added emphatically that, in 
light of past accomplishments of the stu
dent body, I think we are at a point right 
now where if students were interested in 
elective credit for physical education, we 
could get it.
