TARTAN
March 22, 1977 Volume 77, Number 21 CarnegieMellon University Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213
Moves Made to Solve Housing Problem
Students Protest 
Scobell Renovations
by Amy Boyle
Auxiliary Services recently announced 
plans for dormitory renovations, including 
a controversial plan to convert the Scobell 
lounge into dorm rooms. This is keeping 
with the Universitys policy to renovate 
existing facilities- and to avoid construc
ting new buildings.
The Scobell Hall project includes a 
plan to convert the basement lounge of the 
building into 15 rooms, including 9 doubles 
and 6 singles. The doubles will be the same 
as the other double rooms in Scobell. 
The singles will be 9' by 12'. Residents 
of the dorm are protesting the loss of their 
lounge.
Students Dormitory Council wrote a 
letter to the administration expressing 
concern, but with the current housing 
continued on page 8Scobell: soon to lose its lounge
Eighty May Be Denied 
Rooms for Next Year
by Amy Boyle
Seniors could be the first to be denied 
housing as C-MU enters a new era of over
crowded dormitories. This is in comppliance with a new Housing Office Policy 
developed by the University Housing 
Office and the Students Dormitory 
Council.
The turning point in the University 
policy came on Thursday when it became 
evident that the number of upperclass 
students who paid the Housing Reservation 
Deposit, indicating that they intended to 
return to the dormitories next year, 
exceeded Housing Office estimates.
On Friday March 18, there were 80 
undergraduates who had not paid the 
$100 Housing deposit on a growing wait
ing list in the Housing Office. Half of this 
continued on page 8
Cafeterias Inspected
by Sherry Siegel
The Allegheny County Health Depart
ment found numerous violations during 
routine inspections of Morewood Gardens 
Cafeteria and the Kiltie Cafe on December 
27 and February 23.
Violations included the following:
MOREWOOD GARDENS CAFETERIA
1. Clean and maintain the floor area 
under and behind the equipment in the 
serving line. (Floors are encrusted with 
food.) (B violation)
2. Exterminate the roaches in the 
sump room. (C violation)
A C violation must be corrected. 
A B violation is acceptable, but will give 
an eating establishment a B rating. 
Both Morewood Gardens Cafeteria and the 
Kiltie Cafe presently have *A ratings, 
and according to John Eichmuller, CMU 
director of Food Services, we have never 
been in jeopardy of losing our A rating.
All inspections are unannounced, and 
the Health Department grants 30 days for 
correction before reinspecting an establish
ment.
When Health Department inspectors 
returned in February, the above violations 
had been corrected. However, new viola
tions were found in the Morewood Gar
dens Cafeteria, and the Kiltie Cafe:
MOREWOOD GARDENS CAFETERIA 
B Violations:
1. Clean and maintain the area behind^ 
the stove in the grill area of the kitchen.
2. Clean and maintain the floor in the 
food storage area, especially under pallets 
and in the comers. Remove all unused 
materials.
C Violations:
3. Clean and maintain the hood above 
the grill; remove excess grease.
4. Clean and maintain the fish freezer 
in the storage room.
5. The knife rack must be removable 
and cleanable.
6. Discontinue storage of any and all 
food on floors. (Onions and soup were 
found on the floor.)
7. Cover all food stored in freezers and 
coolers. (Liver, fish and beef were found 
uncovered)
8. Maintain the walk-in cooler at 45F 
or less. (Cooler temperature was 52F 
when inspected.)
Health Department finds 20 Violations
KILTIE CAFE, Skibo 
B Violations:
1. Paint floors in dishwasher room to 
provide a smooth, non-porous, easily cleanable surface.
2. Clean and maintain walls in the pot 
and pan washing area more often.
3. Provide a hood or steam-removal 
device for the steam table in the middle of 
the kitchen. (Or find another way to keep 
the walls clean and the area free from 
grease and steam condensation.)
C Violations:
4. Clean and maintain the inside of the 
dishwasher more often, giving special atten
tion to the sprayheads. (These are covered 
with lime, which reduces cleaning effici
ency and water temperature.
5. Repair and repaint walls in walk-in 
cooler.
6. Repair or replace hood supports_______continued^on^nafjp7
Where's Papa?
by Douglas Weber
John Creach left California last week 
for the first stop on his U. S. - Canada 
tour. His truck broke down en route in 
Arizona, forcing him to cancel his March 18 
performance at C-MU and his March 21-23 
concerts in London, Ontario. Creachs 
road manager and booking agency called 
Dave Schatz, head of ABs Concert Com
mittee, and notified him of the can
celation. Schatz acted immediately to 
inform the ticket holders, with announce
ments on WRCT, WDVE and WPGH, pos
ters and an ad in the University of Pitts
burghs newspaper.
C-MU was lucky to obtain a replace
ment for Papa John Creach; Larry Coryell 
may have played alone. But Coryell had 
a concert scheduled Saturday night in 
Richmond, Virginia, with the MarkAlmond Band, and since the MarkAlmond Band was in the area Friday, 
Dave Schatz asked them to play at C-MU. 
They were available and agreed to refill' 
the bill.
Dave felt that the late change would not 
affect the number tickets bought for the 
concert. He cited the few refund inquiries
continued on page 7
A Visitor's Impressions
by Steven Du bow
Computers clicked and programs shot 
out of the machines while I watched in 
awe. Having come west from the University 
of Pennsylvania to visit a high school friend 
who now attends Camegie-Mellon, I was 
unsure of what to expect. But, after being 
brought to the computer center in Science 
Hall, I began to form an understanding of 
CMU students.
Seeing so many people working with the 
computers on a Friday night, the night 
most people break loose and party, struck 
me as strange. At other schools these Fri
day night computer buffs would be brand
ed nerds by the rest of the school pop
ulation. My friend, however, made it a 
point to tell me how much he thinks of 
these hard-working, bright people, add
ing that many CMU students will be study
ing all night.
I quickly came to realize during my 
weekend visit that the character of a school 
and its students are reflected in the intel
lectual orientation of its studies. At CMU, 
it is obviously technical. It is also clear that 
CMU attracts students interested in techni
cal studies - engineering and administrative 
and management science, for example.
Friday night, after leaving the Science 
Hall computers, I went to a Phi Kappa 
Theta mixer. It seems that the dozen cam
pus fraternities run much of the social life 
here, if you choose to have a social life. 
Talking with CMU males, I got the impres
sion that guys do not think highly of CMU 
girls. And I am being kind to CMU women 
by papaphrasing these mens remarks to 
say only that they do not think highly of 
CMU girls.
Even at the mixer, a time when people 
are supposed to forget about their school 
work, the CMU students are reminded. 
 Got a buzz yet? the band singer at the 
Mixer asks the audience. When I was 
growing up here I learned that it took 
longer for people with 160 I. Q.s to get 
drunk, he continues, but maybe youll 
get drunk by the end of the night he 
haughtily concludes. No eicape exists for 
continued on page 6
Steven Dubow is a reporter-colummst for 
the University of Pennsylvania,

---------------------------------------------------

IAkIAN
Point of Obscurity
When the elections of two major organizations repre
senting students-at-large are appealed within a single 
semester; when the greater portion of all successful appeals at 
CMU occur in so few, and so recent, years; and when the 
number of students sincerely desiring positions of respon
sibility and decision making power is so small  it is apparent 
that the methods by which these positions are filled', and the 
status of the positions themselves, should be examined.
The recent Student Government Presidential election was 
held invalid when the post facto discovery was made that at 
least one of the two recognized candidates was ineligible to 
fill the post, while the legitimacy of the others place on the 
ballot was an issue for debate. The CCCP election results 
were appealed when irregularities at the polls were brought to 
light; the outcome of that appeal remains uncertain more 
than a week after it was submitted.
The letter of the law is unclear in the CCCP case. The 
groups constitution has been revised and rewritten, appar
ently to the point of obscurity. The proper forum for or
biting the contested issue has not yet been identified, and 
even the procedure for submission of an appeal is still being 
defined. Senate rules for appeal are well-stated, as are the 
requirements for candidacy. But in both instances, misinter
pretation and misunderstanding of existing regulations appear 
to have caused much of the present controversy, with the 
remainder attributable to the laxity, subjectivity, and arbi
trariness fostered within legislative bodies that create, inter
pret, and enforce rules that influence us all, as well as moni
tor their own elections. Both organizations have adopted 
policies and practices that disallow a broad-based input.
Communication with the campus community is virtually 
nonexistant. This is evident by the ability of a non-enrolled 
student to pass through a Senate committee after receiving 
approbation from 100 students and finding a place on the 
ballot. The requirement for candidates to submit signatures 
was not established to provide busy work, the accomplish
ment of which proves the would-be candidates sincerity, 
but rather to insist that he share and develop his views with 
a large segment of the student body. That the internal 
structure of Senate did not provide a means to prevent 
error and embarassment, and that at least 100 students 
signed as a favor and did not feel obligated to extend 
their commitment by voting, testifies to the fact that who 
holds the position of President is of little importance to 
them.
And what does the title of President mean to its holder, 
other than a resume-richener? The candidates whose state
ments are included in this issue, both recognized and writein, were moved to enter the race when the controversy 
developed; each felt that the position was vital. Although 
it is not an accepted practice to include write-in candidates 
in a general presentation in the TARTAN, we hope by 
doing so to present CMU students with their options and to 
rectify a situation which will hopefully not recur. If CCCP 
i^fs to accept and uphold the pending appeal, we will 
publish candidates qualifications and statements of pur
pose.
Of the many candidates for the Student Government 
Presidential seat, we find Don Simon particularly qualified to 
serve. In our dealings with him as Finance Chairman he has 
been stringent but fair, and we feel that his experience as 
an active and dedicated Senator will give him extra insight 
and eptitude in the position.
Paula Maris Shubock 
Editor
This is the first issue prepared by the new TARTAN board 
of editors, names of whom are included in the masthead on 
this page. Within the next few weeks we will gradually bring 
about changes in format, style and content, all of which are 
designed to provide the CMU community with ever more 
relevant, enlightening, and helpful news. In this issue we 
provide a number which can be called to discuss problems 
existing on campus. This is not meant simply to be a 
sounding board for complaints, although it may also serve 
that function. We hope to get a better idea of what you 
want to see and hear by talking directly to you. If you are 
unwilling or unable to call us, then drop us a line. In 
addition to the Post Office box, we have one at the Skibo 
Information Desk. Your suggestions are sincerely requested, 
and your support is sought to help us through these 
formative issues. We are pleased to serve you.
raBnnmnmnnminiTg 
YiracLt B
Letters
Editor:
I Mean Really!
In response to the Fruits 
letter in the last issue of the TAR
TAN, I can only say that I am 
amazed that the author of the 
letter got to be a junior at this 
school.
I dont see how junior can 
make a statement such as, the one 
that states that CMUs location 
is undesirable when in fact, Pitts
burgh is one of Americas leading 
industrial cities. As if that 
wasnt bad enough, Id like to give 
him a few ideas when he says ... 
what do I need to do with an 
H&SS course ... The fact is, 
many of todays graduates are less 
useful to employers as engineers 
because of an evident decline in 
writing skills. The classic line of 
this letter, however, was:  I 
dont mean to pass judgment on 
homosexuality, but ... I mean 
really!
In closing, Id like to say some
thing that might get some 
thoughts out of juniors over
taxed brain. Since it would be safe 
to say that employers are not
overly fond of homosexuals, as a 
result it would also be safe to say 
that they would not be overly 
fond of giving them jobs. Keeping 
this in mind, doesnt it seem logi
cal that the more homosexuals 
there are, the less competition us 
straights will have when we 
seek employment out there in the 
hard, cruel world? Keep up the 
good work, junior!
Truman H. Compote 
Thanks, Zos
Editor:
Please thank Jeff Zaslow for 
me. A Desire to Stay portrays 
what its all about beautifully. My 
thanks and praise to Jeff.
Doug Weber 
Fruits & Fatso
Editor:
Do you realize that the two 
features of this newspaper that 
have spurned the greatest stu
dent response this year are the 
Fatso picture and the Fruits 
letter? Deans are playing musical 
chairs; student elections are be
coming farcical; tuition is taking 
an annual leap  but CMU scho
lars are worried about nude 
women and homosexuals.
It concerns me that all those 
responding to Fruits were 
worried only about the sexual 
bigotry expressed; no one noticed 
the more subtle insult directed at 
H&SS by the infamous junior 
with his future in mind. I think 
recognition of this belittling 
remark about useless H&SS 
courses deserves consideration; it 
is an example of the biggest p oblem on this campus  lack of 
unity.
There is no unity at this univer
sity. The healthy competition 
among the colleges here has deter
iorated into more of a discord, 
instigated by the majority of the 
CMU population. Competition 
and rivalry is natural and worth
while in all educational pursuits, 
but not when it takes the form of 
constant verbal attacks on one 
another. No CIT-MIS zombie 
will absorb any worthwhile ap
preciation of a humanities course, 
if he really is programmed to 
believe all H&SS majors join the 
bread lines after graduating. Nor 
will a humanities fruit grasp
TAKIAN
Volume 77March 22, 1977Number 21
Editor in Chief: p8ula Maris Shubock
Managing Editor: David 6. Roussos 
Business Manager: Joe Loughran 
News Editor: Sherry Siegel
Entertainment Editor: Casey Childs 
Folio Editor: Jeff Zwlow 
Sports Editor: Tom Binnie 
Photography Editor: Elliot Popowitz
*
Production Head: Vivian Kerstein
Staff Photographers. Skip Brazelton. Rajah Chacko, Bob Cziryak, Tad Dickenson, Tim Fabian, Michael Fryd, 
Chris Heck, Courtney Larson, V.R.V. Ramanan, Ken Ream, Chris Roussi, Fred Shamlian, Susanne Wilson
Copyright 1976 by the Carnegie -Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit or 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Govern
ment of Carnegie -Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50, (412) 621- 
2600 ext. 656 or 481. Business Offices: Skibo 52; (412) 682-4557.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

---------------------------------------------------

General EducationVIEWS
Richard M. Cyert
One of my major concerns as 
President is education. I am con
cerned about what we teach in 
this University and how we teach 
it. For several years, we have had 
a major drive to innovate more 
vigorously in our teaching me
thods. We have called on faculty, 
staff, and students for ideas and 
have financed good ideas through 
the Internal Carnegie Foundation. 
We have spent nearly $400,000 
over the last four years on propo
sals that faculty and students 
have submitted. I am still deeply 
concerned about our methods of 
teaching and want continued 
attention focused on this aspect 
of our activity. We must take ad
vantage of research in the field, 
particularly in learning theory. 
As we develop greater knowledge 
about how individuals learn, we 
should apply this knowledge to 
our own methods of education.
I want to organize a small con
ference of people from our own
faculty-teachers and learning theorists~to discuss ways in which 
we can improve our educational 
process. The conference will 
be structured so that teachers 
will raise questions about prob
lems they are grappling with in 
their own teaching. Too often 
we attempt to use new knowledge 
by asking the researchers to make 
the applications. I hope that this 
method of approaching the subjject--in which the teacher raises 
the problems and asks what help 
exists-will make for a succesful 
meeting. As we increase our 
knowledge about improving our 
methods of teaching, l am hopeful 
that through the Education Cen
ter we can do a better job of edu
cating the faculty about this new 
knowledge.
I am also concerened about 
what we teach in our curriculum. 
I have confidence that the sub
ject matter in our various fields 
is taught competently. Our selec
tion methods make it difficult for 
a mediocre person to become a
member of the faculty. My con
cerns are about how a university 
can best prepare its students to 
become useful citizens who can 
over their lifetim contribute sig
nificantly to society.
One of our positions is to give 
a specialized education in our 
various professional areas. Thus, 
we do not train an electrical en
gineer so that he or she can 
become a productive member of 
a company upon the day of gra
duation because of an ability to 
do a specific task well. Rather, 
we educate engineers so that they 
have the capability of moving into 
a large number of jobs with a wide 
range of companies. Narrow, 
vocational education has been for
saken for a broader education that 
gives the student a greater capa
city to adapt. Carnegie-Mellon 
graduates have general rather than 
specific problem-solving capabili
ties. Because of the importance 
of this skill for the graduates of 
each of our colleges, we should 
have a course in problem solving
for every undergraduate. Such a 
course can help students learn 
better the more specific problem
solving skills taught in the various 
disciplines. Provost Schatz has 
the responsibility for continuing 
to develop this concept and is 
holding seminars for the faculty 
with the help of members of the 
Department of Psychology. Next 
fall Dean Crecine plans a series 
of university seminars with 
speakers from institutions that 
have already moved vigorously to 
take advantage of the research 
in problem solving, much of 
which has taken place on this 
campus.
In addition, we need to inves
tigate the possibility of teaching 
all undergraduates a course on 
modem decision-making tech
niques. This area has developed 
significantly over the last 15 
years, and there are techniques of 
decision making that can be help
ful to people in all professions.
I would like to see an investi
gation of the methodologies deve
loped for analyzing the future to 
see what we. should be teaching. 
Much of our lives, regardless of 
our professions, is spent deter
mining what the future will be so 
that we can take better actions 
today. Many people and institu
tions have devoted themselves to 
working on methods of project
ing the future. ! do not include 
economic forecasting models, but 
I would include topics such as 
technological forecasting. History 
is currently the most effective dis
cipline at doing what I have in 
mind.
In summary, as I think of ways 
of improving our general educa
tion, I try to project the needs our 
students will have 10 and 20 years 
out of college. If we can devise 
some courses that will educate 
our students to deal effectively 
with the world over that stretch 
of time, we will have improved 
the education we are giving at 
Carnegie-Mellon University.
more Letters
the importance of technical re
search, if he views Tech majors as 
narrow minded mercenaries. The 
slander among the different col
leges here must stop.
Maybe if we were a unified 
school we might spend more time 
addressing ourselves to the more 
important issues on campus. 
Homosexuals are going to always 
hug and kiss; Fatso has probably 
been doing the same for some
time, too. We cannot do any
thing about this, but we can be
come more tolerant and respect
ful of one another. And maybe 
then the architect, the engineer, 
the actor, the writer, the musi
cian, the chemist, and everyone 
else can bang on President 
Cyerts door and ask for a $300 
rebate on tuition.
David R. Mongeau 
AB Racism
Editor.
This afternoon I saw the AB 
film, The Harder They Come, 
which I thought was excellent. 
I cannot say as much for the 
short which AB chose to show 
before the main film. It was an 
old cartoon which consisted in 
its entirety of the worst forms 
of racist stereotyping of black 
people which the American 
entertainment industry has per
petrated. This sort of thing ought 
to have been unacceptable when it 
was first made, and it should be 
even more unacceptable now, in 
an era in which we have supposed
ly left those forms of stereotyping 
behind. To add insult to injury, 
the short was shown accom
panying a film that was particular
ly concerned with the problems 
faced by black people in Kings
ton, Jamaica, and hence might 
have been of particular interest to 
a black audience.
At the very least, AB owes the 
campus an apology for showing 
this short. In addition, I think 
that AB ought not to be allowed 
the cost of the short by the bud
geting agencies responsible for 
the allocation of our student ac
tivities fees  I for one do not
wish to have my activities fee 
spent for the presentation of 
racist entertainment.
Angrily,
Daniel Mark Rosenblum, 
Graduate Student, SUPA 
Girls I.M.
Editor:
What is going on with girls 
intramural sports? Are there any 
rules for it or dont girls rate to 
get the treatment that guys 
intramurals get?
In any intramural sport it is 
expected that both the teams 
and faculty will follow the set 
rules. But not so in girls intra
murals. It is not necessary to in
form another team before a game 
that your team will not be able to 
make the game. Therefore you 
may get to the gym psyched to 
play only to find out that the 
other team is not coming. There 
are no rules of forfeit either, 
even when a team shows up ex
tremely late. No one considers 
these games seriously. For exam
ple, in guys intramural games 
there is always a playoff and no 
matter what, the winner of the 
playoff is the winner for the 
season. Not so in girls intra
murals. If there is a playoff, it is 
not counted and the winner of 
the playoff is not necessary first 
for the season.
If any of this is brought up 
to other teams or faculty it is not 
acted upon. What would be fair is 
that girls intramurals get the same 
consideration that the guys get. 
Wed see a lot more action in girls 
intramurals.
Nina Gattel 
Kumquat Team Member
Meat of the Matter
Editor.
I am an MIS student in my 
senior year hre at CMU. What is 
so delightful about this is that 
I will soon be entering the Physics 
world. However, before I depart 
I would like to mention some
thing which has troubled me 
recently.
I was shocked and saddened
two weeks ago by a letter from a 
CIT student who talked of 
nothing but bread and fruits. 
Then, last week, another dis
gusting letter about vegetables 
appeared. Have you people no 
knowledge of what things com
prise a balanced diet?
Let me mention the most im
portant foods we have  the meat 
and dairy group. Now, this is a 
subject you can sink your teeth 
into! Why mess around with 
appetizers and side dishes, when 
you can have the main event?
With my point made, I can 
now accelerate (non-uniformly) 
into the future with my mind in 
perfect equilibrium. See ya later!
G. George Ginther
A Junior's Friend
Editor.
The level of debate in the Let
ters to the Editor of this news
paper has never been very high, 
but the responses to a junior 
with his future on his mind in 
the March 15th issue are lower on 
the scale of semantic content than 
anything I have ever read in a con
temporary article. They are an 
atrocity committed on the English 
language.
I dont know if the attitude of 
the writers is justified; its not a 
subject which Ive studied. I do 
know a failure to communicate 
when I see one, and on March
15 th I saw six of them on one 
page.
The writers of these letters 
attacked the man, not his argu
ments, using very colorful and 
emotional language. Unfortunate
ly, slick language is not very infor
mative. If they wanted to further 
the acceptance of homosexuality, 
there are many things they could 
have said. Instead, they proved 
that homosexuals can be as nasty, 
as stupid, and as irrational as the 
rest of us.
The writers were far more 
derogatory, and far less tolerant 
and accepting than the man they 
were attacking for those very 
faults. This is not hypocrisy, they 
just didnt realize what they were
saying.
We cannot insist that all let
ters to the editor communicate 
at least one logical thought, as a 
requirement for publication; such 
a rule would be blatantly discrim
inatory. What we can do is polite
ly request that all writers use the 
best logic and semantics they 
know, and devote extensive 
thought to the contents of their 
letters before they try to have 
them published. Their ideas would 
be communicated much more 
clearly, and both they and we 
would be better off.
ASACK
Hari Christian
Editor:
This is a sincere letter, and I 
am looking for an honest answer. 
Why do the Christians on this 
campus try to convert every
one whos not a Christian? Is this 
true of all Christians, or are the 
Christians at CMU especially 
zealous? Do they proselytize out 
of a sincere wish to save souls, 
or out of a dogmatic belief in 
their own superiority? I am not 
anti-Christian, but it seems that all 
I have to do is ask one question of 
a Christian friend, and before 
I know it Ive been invited to 
attend a meeting or a dinner.
I am afraid to see the flurry of
letters these questions will pro
duce. I will be called a bigot, a 
Christian-hater. But I am a fresh
man from a small town where 
religion is considered a 
private affair.
A Freshman 
After a Long Campaign 
Editor:
I am responding to the process 
and results of the recent election 
and the untimely conclusions of 
the Student Senate. After perhaps 
one of the closest races in years 
for president, the Senate precipi
tately disqualified both candi
dates, claiming that they were not 
full-time enrolled students. In Mr. 
Edahls case, it was found that 
even though he was registered for 
only five units in graduate studies
he was involved in some form of 
research, enough to qualify him 
for full-time status. In Mr. 
Scherers case, it was found that 
he was not enrolled due to cir
cumstances beyond his control. 
Even though maintaining a full
time course schedule in the Col
lege of Fine Arts, the cashiers 
office withdrew Mr. Scherers 
enrollment recently due to the 
mismanagement and misapplica
tion of his tunds which were ob
tained from the state office of 
education early in the school year. 
In other words, due to red tape 
and bureaucratic disarray quite 
beyond the control of a person 
of ordinary means, Mr. Scherers 
enrollment was needlessly with
drawn. As I understand it, this 
was a key element in his plat
form  to fight mismanagement.
I have always felt that someone 
who is personally experienced in 
any sort of situation is best 
qualified to deal with it from a 
position of power. Mr. Scherer 
is the only candidate personally 
committed to fight such mis
management.
However, it has come to my 
attention that Mr. Edahl was rash 
enough to suggest that Mr. 
Scherers problems were his own 
fault. Such a statement epitomizes 
the general insolence of Mr. 
Edahls campaign and tactics. I 
have directly observed Mr. Edahls 
unmannerly actions towards Mr. 
Scherer in both debates. Such 
actions have also been observed 
on part of Mr. Edahls friends who 
continually issue backbiting state
ments concerning Mr. Scherer. In 
concluding, I find that Mr. Edahl 
is a very rude person and his elec
tion would not serve the interests 
of all persons of integrity.
While the question of who I 
endorse for president at this time 
is obvious, I would like to ask of 
all voters to vote with not only 
belief, but with conscience and 
integrity. An important office is 
at stake.
James Olcott 
*80 HASS

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTS.CLASSIFIED ADS
DEADLINE: NOON WEDNESDAY!
Classified rate: $1.00 for every 15 words. 
Announcements are printed FREE.
general
The Summer Studies Office of CMU is 
looking to hire a staff of resident counsel
ors to coordinate and supervise a student 
life program for high school students at
tending the University's Advanced Place
ment/Early Admissions, Fine Arts PreCollege and Project Upward Bound Pro
grams.
Counselors must be energetic and willing 
to live and work closely with the programs' 
participants. Compensation includes room 
and board for the six-weeks session, June 
27 through August 5.
Applications, along with detailed job des
criptions, are available in the Admissions 
Office, first floor of Warner Hall.
For those of you that missed last week's 
meeting. Lambda Sigma, the National 
Sophomore Service Honorary, announces 
another freshman orientation. This will be 
held in Room 11 in Skibo at 5:00 p.m. on 
Tues. March 22. Any freshman with a 2.75 
average or above who was not contacted 
is urged to attend. 
Kits containing information about the May
16 Commencement should be picked up by 
graduate and undergraduate candidates at 
their departmental offices during the week 
of April 18. Five Commencement invita
tions are included in each kit
The Activities Board would like to an
nounce the appointment of a new 
T.G.I.F. chairperson. BEVERLY MAR
SHALL has been voted into the position 
T.G.I.F. lives on.
Well provide a high school senior with a
sleeping bag if you supply your floor, your 
companionship, and your knowledge of the 
university. You can do so on April 17, 18 
or April 24, 25 by volunteering at the Ad
missions Office or through campus mail.
The spring semester deadline for an H&SS
student to drop one course wtihout penal
ty is APRIL 1 (BEFORE SPRING RE
CESS). Requests received after that date 
will not be'honored.
Do you believe in evolution? Ascent of
Man Documentary Film Series presents 
THE LADDER OF CREATION on March
22 at 11:30 and 12:30 in the Wherrett 
Room, Skibo. This film discusses Darwin 
and Evolution. "World within World" 
(Inside the Atom) will be presented on 
March 29. There is no admission fee. Fac
ulty, students and friends are welcome. 
Sponsored by Campus Program Planning.
The CIT proposed section of the Society of 
Women Engineers will meet Sunday, March
27 at 7 p.m. in Science Hall 5304. All in
terested individuals are invited; you need 
not be a women engineer! If you are un
able to attend the meeting, but are interest
ed in the society, contact Marilyn Schnell 
at 683-9809.
China: A Pictoral Study by Joseph Rosen
of the Art Department will be the topic of 
this week's Thursday Afternoon Luncheon 
Forum Series. The series is presented at 
12:30 in the Wherrett Room, Skibo.
The slide discussion is based on a recent 
tour of China with a group studying com
mune structure and commune life.
Campus Program Planning is sponsoring the 
program. We hope you will join us for this 
informative and enjoyable presentation.
EPP/SUPA PROJECT team studying the
Allegheny County Mental Health Program 
will present a progress report and initial 
findings to their review panel at 3:30 in 
Scaife Hall Auditorium. Open to the 
public. For information. Call EPP office, 
ext. 462.
John P. Crecine, Dean of the College of
Humanities & Social Sciences will have 
open office hours for students, Tuesdays 
from 1:30 to 5:00.
An Ethnic Food Fair will be held on Wed
nesday, March 30 and Thursday, March 31 
from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m., sponsored by the 
Pitt YMCA. The fair will be held in the 
lower lounge and patio of the Student 
Union. Come, enjoy the food and be enter
tained by some middle eastern belly danc
ing.
Sculptured art pieces by nationally famous
artist, Charles Parks will be on display 
April 1-23 in the Gateway Center Westinghouse Building, 11 Stanwix Street. The 
free exhibit is open to the public 9:00 a.m. 
to 4:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. Ex
hibit is sponsored by the Equitable Life 
Assurance Society of the United States.
The Y Music Society of the Jewish Com
munity Center will hold auditions for its 
1977-78 Passamaneck Awards Winner(s) on 
April 22. Anton Coppola, faculty conduc
tor for opera and symphony at the Man
hattan School of Music, has agreed to judge 
the fmalists. Mr. Coppola will conduct 
Rigoletto with the Pittsburgh Opera on 
April 21 and 23.
The Y Music Society sponsors the only 
major recital series in western Pennsyl
vania. Some of the world's greatest artists 
have performed here during its 51 year 
history.
Singers and instrumentalists who live or 
study within a 100 mile radius of Pitts
burgh and feel ready for a major recital 
debut, should call Allen Sher at (412) 
521-8010 for more information.
Miss Jessica Pickett, C. S., is a member of 
the Board of Lectureship of the First 
Church of Christ, Scientist, in Boston, 
Massachusetts. She also serves in the heal
ing ministry of the denomination.
Miss Jessica Pickett, C. S., will speak on 
Saturday, April 9th, at 2:00 p.m. in the 
First Church of Christ, Scientist, Wilkinsburg, located at 1900 Graham Boulevard, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 15235.
The lecturer, a former business woman, 
says, "we must do more than believe in 
God; we must learn how to apply God's 
power to whatever the need is".
This is a free lecture to the public. All are 
welcome.
Students' Dormitory Council is looking for
talent to perform during Spring Carnival. 
Cash prizes are being offered. Anyone who 
can sing, dance, play an instrument, per
form magic, mim/s, comedy or anything 
else of entertainment vavlue is asked to 
contact David Wolf through the SDC mail
box at the Skibo Information Desk.
PEER HELP has changed their hours.
The new hours are:
Day, MF - 10:30-5:00
Evening, Sun-Thur. 7:3011:30
Wkend Eve, Fri & Sat 7:3012:30 
You can either stop in or call; we are 
located in Baker Hall 150A and our tele
phone number is 621-9900.
PEER HELP is students trained to listten. We are a paraprofessional counseling 
service. We give referrals, information, 
and tutor. We're here to rap or to work 
on specific problems. Stop by sometime.
Fifty-eighth Mellon Lecture of the School
of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh. 
Vernon B. Mountcatle, M. D., Professor 
of Physiology and Director of the Depart
ment, The Johns Hopkins University 
School of Medicine. "The World Around 
Us: Brain Mechanisms for Directed
Action," Tuesday, April 5, 1977, 5:00 PM. 
Auditorium, 2nd Floor, Western Psychia
tric Institute and Clinic, O'Hara Street, 
Oakland. The public is cordially invited 
to attend.
Dr. Allan Collins, Botl, Beranek and New
man, Inc. HUMAN PLAUSIBLE REA
SONING, Friday, March 25, 3:30 PM, 
BH 340-A.
The Department of Modern Languages and
Literatures will administer proficiency tests 
in French, German, Spanish, and Russian 
on Saturday, APRIL 16,1977, at 10:00am 
in the language laboratory, Margaret Mor
rison 310.
Any student may take one of these 
tests; there is no charge. The test takes 
95 minutes.
Students who demonstrate competence 
at the intermediate level will satisfy their 
college and/or department requirements in 
a foreign language. (Undergraduate only) 
Students may also take this test in order 
to establish their level of competence in 
the language gained through self-study, 
study abroad, etc., or to determine their 
level of achievement in order to continue 
further study in that language. These tests 
are primarily designed for students who 
have had two years or more of college 
language instruction although this is not 
a prerequisite for taking the test.
Students wishing to take one of these 
tests should sign up in the Modern Lan
guages Department Office, Baker Hall 
232-B, before Friday, April 15.
TARTAN'S award winning sports section
is looking for a new editor. You maybe 
the person we're looking for. Call or 
write the TARTAN office in Skibo, or con
tact Tom Binnie. '
Wanted: a yearbook staff. Thistle comes
but once a year, only this year there are 
problems. We need people to put together 
Thistle, and need them now. Interested? 
Contact: David G. Roussos, Chairperson
of Student Senate.
A meeting for TARTAN news reporters
and all those interested in writing for 
Tartan will be held Tuesday, March 22, 
at 7:30 in Skibo Room 50. If you are in
terested but cannot come to the meeting 
please contact the Tartan.
scholarships awards prizes
COLLEGE POETRY REVIEW, The Na
tional Poetry Press announces: The closing 
date for the submission of manuscripts 
by College Students is April 1. Any stu
dent attending either junior or senior 
college is eligible to submit his verse. 
There is no limitation as to form or theme. 
Shorter works are preferred because of 
space limitations.
Each poem must be TYPED or 
PRINTED on a separate sheet, and must 
bear the NAME and HOME ADDRESS of 
the student, and the COLLEGE ADDRESS 
as well. Entrants should also submit the 
name of an English instructor.
MANUSCRIPTS should be sent to the 
OFFICE OF THE PRESS.' National Poetry 
Press, Box 218, Agoura, Ca. 91301.
V \' * I t
classified
SELF-DEFENSE TRAINING FOR WO
MEN taught by Feminist Karate Union. 
Classes begin 4/4. 276-4527; 521-0902.
Typing Guarantee. Save my number for
future jobs-PICA, ELITE, SYMBOL, 
ITALICS. Mary, 761-8584
Self-Hypnosis Workshop, Terminate Smok
ing Clinic. Write to Mr. TA. 5528 Raleigh 
St., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15217
Summer Sublet: Squirrel Hill Apt. North
umberland & Wightman. Three bdrms., liv
ing room and kitchen, furnished. $83 
month, utilities paid. 421-9945
Attractive male of moderate income seek
ing out companion of substantial income. 
Hobbies: boating, polo, backgammon. I 
also like French Wines and German 
cheeses. You can reach me the same way 
I'm reaching you.
The Transactional Analysis (T. A.) Study
Group of Monroeville will meet Wednesday 
March 23, I977. For Information call
372-3228.
Do you think Student Senate is a farce?
Well...do something about it! Wednesday, 
March 23 at 7:30 in Skibo 11.
EUROPE via Pan Am 707 for Less than %
economy fare. Call toll free (6-9 pm) 
(800) 325-4867 or see your travel agent. 
60-day advance payment required. UniTravel Charters.
WANTED FOR PART TIME OR SUM
MER WORK Computer Science or relat
ed major, familiar with digital electronics, 
hardware & software. CALL 361-1602.
Excellent opportunities for college stu
dents to'qualify as stock-broker or real 
estate salesperon--and to earn income while 
attending college. Financial Estate Insti
tute is offering evening classes to qualify 
as stock-broker ($240.00 Tuition) and Sa
turday classes to qualify as real estate 
salesperon ($150.00 Tuition). 241-6011
373-3300.
THE ALTERNATIVE- A new coffee
house, Lutheran University Center, 4515 
Forbes. FRIDAY, March 25, 7 pm - mid
night, OPEN STAGE - Bring your guitars, 
etc. Next coffee house, April 1 - live enter
tainment.
For Sale: 1966 Mercedes Benz 250S8 cyl. gas., Auto.,AM/FM> A. C., P. W., 
P.S., P. B., 76,000 mi, must sell $2,500. 
Call 381-4864, eves. 431-4897, and days 
381-6400.
Typing - Theses, dissertations, term papers,
etc. Ask about free copying service. Call 
Janice 421-6483.
FOR SALE: 1976 Pontiac Grand Prix.. .
loaded. . .$600 and take over payments. 
243-7484 after 6:00 p.m.
Dear Lisa, Welcome to Pittsburgh!!
It's great to see you sweetie! Lo\/fe Nina.
Backpacking adventures, Pennsylvania
wilderness, experiences guide. Group 
rates. Ben Brugmans Outfitters, P.O. 
Box 7I066, Pittsburgh, 15213. 683-6094
Student Senate is looking f >r a secretary.
If you're interested in student politics and 
making money, this is the opportunity 
of a lifetime. Leave your name and num
ber at the Skibo Information Desk or 
contact your student senator.
(8 j J j) fwirijo-} |.>

---------------------------------------------------

Week in Review
Vietnamese Premier Phan Van Dong
welcomed a U.S. delegation of five by 
expressing his confidence that Presi
dent Carter wants to solve the prob
lems between us in a new spirit.
Premier Dong emphasized his readiness 
to help the delegation which was
seeking information about missing 
servicemen (MIAs). The only tangible 
evidence recovered about the 2500 
MIAs was the remains of 12 service
men. The delegation also visited Laos 
in attempt to learn the fates of 550
additional MIAs and received only the 
hope of a substantial change in atti
tude. Cambodia refused to receive the 
delegation entirely.
The Palestine Liberation Organiza
tion Parliament-in-Exile approved over
whelmingly a political platform that
didnt call for the destruction of 
Israel. The resolution to recognize 
Israels right to exist, however, and 
neither the United States nor Israel 
will deal with PLO until it does.
The Carter administration is investi
gating ways to prevent oil spills. Under 
consideration are stricter standards for 
tankers entering U.S. waters and a means 
of identifying tankers with poor safety 
records. A maritime pollution treaty is 
in the process of being ratified, and legis
lation on oil-spill liability has been pro
posed. The White House confessed, how
ever, that these measurements affect the 
primary source of oil pollution which 
comes from deliberate emptying of 
tanker ballast in the sea.
President Carter has carried his human
rights campaign into the United Nations, 
where he reprimanded members for not
treating seriously their pledge to protect 
basic freedoms. This responsibility, he 
claimed, meant that a nation could 
neither justify mistreatment of its own 
citizens nor disregard abuse of populace 
in any other nation. Two more nations 
reacted hostily to Carters pressure to 
strengthen the Human Rights Commis
sion; El Salvador and Guatemala were 
the fourth and fifth Latin American 
nations to reject U.S. military aid due 
to official U.S. Criticism of their govern
ments. Elsewhere, the Soviet media 
blasted the President for having unsavory 
political aims and creating national 
tension.
The US has given $2 million in mili
tary aid to enable Zaire to recapture an 
area with major copper mines that was 
taken over by Katangan guerrillas last 
week. The allegedly led Cuban guerrillas 
were aided by local inhabitants. The Katangas belong to a group that tried to secede 
from the then Belgian Congo when it 
became Zaire. The Katangas fled to Angola 
when their revolt collapsed. Copper mines 
in the area produce 7% of the worlds 
copper and provide 40% of the countrys 
income. Zaires president, Mobuto Sese 
Seko, announced that Zaires army had 
recaptured a strategically located town. 
He feels that the Katangas are trying to 
destroy Zaires economy. Belgium and 
France have also given aid to Zaire, which 
has upset Angolan officials.
The leader of the Hanafi Muslim group 
that held 134 hostages at the Bnai Brith 
building, the Mosque and the City Hall in 
Washington D.C., in revenge for the slaying 
of seven members of his family by a rival 
Muslim group, was arrested last week for 
armed kidnapping. He was immediately
ELECTION APPEALED
In abidence with the Constitution and Bylaws of the 
Student Government of Carnegie-Mellon University, Article I, 
Section 7, The Elections Appeal Board has ruled upon the ap
peal of Donald Simon, received March 11,1977 as follows:
1. Concerning the two candidates' qualifications.
As stating in Article III, Section A of the Student Govern
ment Constitution, "He (the President) shall be a full-time 
student at Carnegie-Mellon University."
The Election Appeals Board has declared unanimously 
that a full-time student shall be as designated by the Univer
sity registrar.
Richard Edahl has been, therefore, declared as a 
qualified candidate.
Richard Scherer has been declared unqualified.
2. Concerning validity of the election.
It has been decided that since voters as well as potential 
write-in candidates were misled by the acceptance of the 
nomination of the unqualified candidate, that a new 
presidential election must be held. That election shall be held 
March 24 and 25.
3. Concerning the conduct of the new election.
The Board has decided that all willing candidates were 
given time to submit petitions. Therefore one name - Rick 
"K.G." Edahl - will appear on the ballot of the rerestablished 
presidental election. The cost of campaigning for the March 
24 and March 25 election must meet the guidelines set by the 
Bylaws.
4. Recommendations to Student Senate.
We recommend that Student Senate adopt into their Con
stitution the University's registrar's definition of a full-time 
student.
Members of the Board:
Kenneth Meinert (Rules'Chairman)
Elliot Popowitz (Senate Chairman)
Peter Yacoe (President)
Mark Levine (UFO)
Sam Grego (SDC)
George Bachner (CCCP)
Respectfully submitted,
\Kenneth Meinert 
Chairman of the Election 
Appeals Board
3/12 77
released. Murder charges will probablybe 
brought against the killers of the young, 
black reporter who was killed during the 
siege of City Hall.
The Missouri Senate defeated ratifi
cation of the Equal Rights Amendment 
by a vote of 22 to 12. Ratification by 
three more states is needed by March 1979 
in order for the amendment to take effect.
The Carter administration has asked for
the decriminalization of possession of small 
amounts of marijuana. A White House aide 
has said that he feels the maximum 
penalty for possession should be a civil 
fine. Eight states have decriminalized 
possession of pot for personal use already.
A federal appeals court in Washington
ruled that the Federal Communication 
Commission (FCC) cant ban language 
which it classifies as indecent during 
any hours. The two-to-one decision, 
which upsets a 1975 FCC ruling, stated 
that the FCC had an illegal censorship.
The House Government Operations
Committee approved, by a vote of 39-3, a 
bill that will allow the President ot re
structure the Executive Branch (a power 
that previous presidents always enjoyed). 
The measure contains a controversial 
provision which will make all changes 
effective 60 days after they are proposed 
if not vetoed by either House of Congress. 
The last significant opposition to the 
bill, which came from Rep. Jack Brooks 
of TeXas, was quieted when the measure 
was tightened to insure congressional 
review of Carters plans. Since the bill 
has already been approved by the Senate 
and will come up before the House shortly,
Carter will, in all probability, soon wield 
the power necessary to fulfill a campaign 
promise, the streamlining of federal 
bureaucracy.
A bill requiring employee sick leave 
and health care plans for pregnant women 
has been introduced in Congress. This 
takes place after the Supreme Court 
ruled that according to the Civil Rights 
Act of 1964, pregnancy benefits need not 
be included in such plans.
The Stock Market advanced last week
as the Dow Jones Industrial Average was 
up over 13 points. Trading volume was 
high by comparison with recent weeks. 
The market was Buoyed by good economic 
news on several fronts. First, Treasury Sec
retary Blumenthal predicted that the 
economy would rebound sharply in the 
second quarter after the weather ridden 
first quarter and, secondly, housing stocks 
were up sharply in February after a 
severe drop in January. The housing sector 
has been one of the weakest parts of the 
economy during the past recession. Gla
mour stocks advanced because investors 
started replacing their short stocks. Selling 
short is selling stock you do not own in 
anticipation of buying it back at a lower 
price, so when investors think the market 
has bottomed out, they start purchasing 
the shares back. Television manufacturers 
stocks advanced because the U.S. Interna
tional Trade Committee recommended that 
higher tariffs be placed on imported sets. 
The price of gold broke the $150 an ounce 
barrier, the highest price in well over a 
year.
by Debbie Rosenkrantz 
and Wendolf Do Ison
UPI Wire Service courtesy WRCT
In Memoriam 
Steven Lee, Died Febuary 19,1977
TARTANMarch 12,1977
You might or might not have heard about Stephen 
Lee, a CMU graduate in the Class of 1975, who was 
killed recently while on board .a ship in the Carib
bean. Steve was a really active student, having served 
on Senate as its Finance Committee Chairperson. 
He was also very active in Spring Carnival and in the 
E&PA (EPP) program.
I think that it is appropriate to say that the loss 
of Stephen Lee is a great one. Its at times (ike 
these that we look back and appreciate people (like 
Steve), especially if we had not done so before,
Thanks,
Gary Singer 
Class of 1976

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6 - TARTAN - March 22, 1977
Impressions
continued from page 1
the fact that CMU is the best university in 
Pittsburgh, and CMU students work ex
tremely hard compared to students at 
other schools.
Friday night I also went to the black 
party at Skibo, and saw a pattern that repeates at many universities. Blacks feel the 
need for separateness and celebration of 
their own identity. Having a Black week, 
just by the nature of it, testifies to the 
separatness of whites and blacks at many 
universities, these schools of higher learn
ing and open-mindedness.
Having missed breakfast Saturday morn
ing, I walked around the CMU campus for 
the first time in daylight, seeing the cut, 
the hill dormitories, and the fraternity 
quadrangle. Wandering around the cut with 
my friend, I am told about this excellent 
program or that excellent professor. I once 
again perceive the pride my friend has for 
the academic life of this school, a pride I 
assume common to most CMU students.
The buildings on the cut seem unimpres
sive to me, although I know little about 
architecture. The appearance of buildings, 
however, is not important here, it is what
goes on inside the buildings that is para
mount. , 
Even before' it rained Saturday there 
was a noticeable lack of students walkine 
around campus Where is everyone? I 
asked my friend, . rhetorically, having 
learned his patterned.response. Everyone 
is studying, my friend responds in what 
has become a trite answer.
Saturday evening for dinnner I ate at 
the Morewood. Dinning Hall. Beside being 
unimpressed by the quality of the food, 
I noticed many people eating alone, a sight 
rarely seen-at Penn. I refused to ask my 
friend another stupid why question like 
I have done all weekend. But the picture 
of students, sitting alone at a large round 
table With that low-grade food in front of 
them that administrators call dinner, will 
not leave my mind; it is a sign of loneliness.
After dinner I met some people involved 
in student politics here who were planning 
strategy for the upcomming CMU Presiden
tial election. Their main concern was how 
to get more than the -23 percent of CMU 
students who voted .in the recent EdahlScherer-Lubon. race. Student politics has 
died all across . the nation at . universities, 
and student-politicians are held in low 
esteem, if not ridicule. Politics, even before
the Watergate shock, was known as lowly 
employment.
Todays commentators on the college 
scene explain students disinterest in their 
own student government by pointing to 
the tight job market that has led to such 
fierce competition among undergraduates. 
I doubt that is the whole reason. Although 
I could not find out information about 
CMU in the 60s, I am willing to bet CMU 
did not lead universities in the upheavals 
of that decade; CMUs technical character 
has affected its students reactions since 
the schools inception.
Saturday night, having seen the machi
nations of CMU student politics, my friend 
and I got mixed up with some Chatham 
girls, and I emphasize the mixed up. It 
turned into a forgettable night with my 
high school buddy cursing the ignorant 
Chatham women. We resorted to dumping 
these girls, drinking beers, and repenting 
our mistake.
Finally on Sunday I saw a CMU library, 
the heart of any school. I spent the day in 
the library reading The Washington Post 
and John Cheevers new book Falconer, 
which Newsweek called the next great 
American novel, as my friend sweated out 
a take-home midterm in his social organiza-PLAIN TALKFROMARMCOON FINDING A JOB:
Why too much regulation may rule you out
How would you like to be forced to 
get permission from 379 separate 
Government agencies before you could 
work? Thats what Armco has to do. 
We think you could hear a similar story 
from neariy any large company in 
Americaif the regulatory paperwork 
leaves them any time to talk to you. 
Excessive regulation threatens your 
chance of getting a job.
Most of us agree that the goals 
regulation seeks are important. Clean 
air and water. Job safety. Equal rights 
at work. The problem is the way 
Government people now write and 
apply specific rules to reach those 
goals. Too often, the rules don't really 
do any good. They just tie companies 
up in knots as they try to comply.
Federal regulations now take up a 
twelve-foot shelf of textbook size 
volumes printed in small type. 13,589  
more pages were written last year 
alone. And Washington is more than 
matched by a growing army of state 
and local regulators.
Nobody really knows how much 
money regulation costs. Some say it's 
up to $40 billion a year. Companies 
paying that bill cant use that money 
for jobs. A new job, on the average, 
now costs a company S42.168 in capital 
investment. (Armco's own cost is 
$55,600.) At $42,168 per job, regulation 
last year ate up the money which
could have created 948,000 new jobs.
No sensible American wants to 
dismantle all Government regulation. 
But we think the system has gone 
berserk and the cost.is out of control.
FreeArmcos plain talk on how to get a job
We've got a free booklet to help you 
get a job. Use it- to set yourself apart, 
above the crowd. We answer 50 key 
questions, youll heed to know. Like 
why you shouid bone up on companies 
you like.-What to do after the first 
interview, Hints to make you a more 
aggressive, attractive job candidate.
All prepared for Armco by a consult
ing firm specializing in business 
recruiting, with help from the place
ment staff of a leading university.
Send for your free copy of How 
to. Get a Job. Write Armco Steel 
Corporation, Educational Relations 
Dept., General Offices, U-3, Middle
town, Ohio 45043! Our supply is 
limited, so write now.
ARMCOI
Plain Talk About REGULATION
Besides our 379 permits, Armco at last 
count had to file periodic reports with 
1,245 federal, state and local agencies. 
What happens to Armco and other 
companies isnt that important. But 
what happens to a companys jobs is. 
Here's a small example:
The Government requires companies 
to give employees reports on their 
benefit plans. Fair enough. But the 
timing this year, plus the complexities 
of Armcos plans, didn't let us print a 
report in our company magazine. In
stead, we had to mail them200,000 
in allto each employee individually. 
This didn't add one dime to Armco 
people's benefits. But its cost us 
$125,000 so far. That's two jobs we 
couldn't create, right there.
Next time anybody cjills for a new 
regulation, you might ask for some 
sensible analysis of the costs and 
benefitsincluding how many jobs 
might be lost. One of those jobs could 
be yours.
Armco wants vour plain talk 
on regulation and jobs
Does our message make sense? Wed 
like to know what you think. Your 
personal experiences. Facts youve 
found to prove or disprove our point. 
Drop us a line. We'll send you a more 
detailed report on regulation and jobs. 
Our offer of How to Get a Job. above, 
tells you how to write us. Let us hear 
from you. We've all got a stake in more 
American jobs.
tion course.
The other people in the library were all 
armed with calculators, which must be a 
common bond among CMU students. Most 
of these people stayed in the library for the 
whole day.
Having finished my weekend stay here,
I tried to think what symbolizes CMU to 
me. As I boarded the bus for Philadelphia,
I remembered my friend in high school. In 
the past he partied often - before, during, 
and after school. Work was a sidelight to 
his act. He lived a carefree life. Now my 
high school friend books up to 40 hours a 
week, and feels he does not put in enough 
time. The bus pulled nit of the station, 
and I marvelled at the change CMU has 
brought about in my buddy. And that is 
probably good.
Senior Wins Award
by Jocelyn Curran
Senior architect Paul Ostergaard has 
been named co-winner of the John 
Stewardson Memorial Competition in 
Architecture for this year.
The competition, held during the end 
of January and the beginning of February, 
involved four schools: Penn State, Univer
sity of Pennsylvania, Drexel, and CMU. 
Selected students from each architecture 
department were given 9 days to solve a 
problem: to design a summer fine arts
center located in the Catskill Mountains 
on a lake.
Paul and five other CMU students were 
chosen by their department to compete. 
Then, said Paul, we hid in the top of 
Doherty Hall somewhere for nine days, 
emerged, handed in our individual projects, 
and slept. It was a nine day all-out effort. 
Despite the pressures upon them, they 
still had fun. We all worked as a group, 
said Paul, and could exchange ideas and 
benefit from each others opinions, even 
though we competed individually.
The students prepared their projects on 
two 20 x 30 inch boards. These were sent 
to Philadelphia, where a closed jury of two 
people met on February 9. The victors 
were subsequently announced.
The winner of the annual, century old 
competition is traditionally awarded a 
$3000 traveling scholarship to Europe. 
However, since for the first time in the 
history of the contest there are two 
winners, the award will be split between 
Paul and Dan Jones, a student from Univer
sity of Pennsylvania.
Paul plans to take his trip sometime 
next spring after he works for one year. 
His tentative itinerary includes stops at 
Italy, England, and Scandinavia, Pauls 
personal favorites.
Election Results
by Joan Konkle
David G. Roussos was elected Student 
Senate Chairperson, and Steve Belanich 
Vice Chairperson, at the Student Senate 
meeting last Thursday. Also elected were 
the chairpersons of the internal commit
tees: James Gasbarro, Academic Affairs;
Tom Engleman, Finance; Mark Kennet, 
General Campus; Vivian Kerstein, Informa
tion; and Ken Meinert, Rules. Kennet and 
Meinert were reelected as Chairpersons of 
their committees.
Recently, General Campus and Informa
tion had been combined into one commit
tee. According to David Roussos, splitting 
the committee into two indicates that 
there is greater enthusiasm within Student 
Senate and should help make it more effi
cient.
Senate elected James Gasbarro as 
CITs third representative in a tie-breaking 
vote. He and John Golec received 121 
votes each in the electip,held on March
10 and 11. * '

---------------------------------------------------

March 22, 1977 - TARTAN - Page 7
Where's Papa? Appeal Fails
continued from page 1
and the popularity of the Mark-Almond 
Band as reasons for his enthusiasm. The 
show will be different, but it will still be 
great, he said Thursday.
Unused tickets can be refunded at the 
Cashiers Office in Warner Hall.
Where, Indeed?
by Ann Fidlon
The show certainly was different. The 
8:00 audience saw only Larry Coryell 
(and not until 8:30) because all of the 
Mark-Almond Band hadnt yet arrived. 
They were invited to come back at 12:30 
to join the audience of the 10:30 show to 
see the band; only about 30 people re
turned. (Presumably, the rest will trade in 
their ticket stubs for a partial refund.)
The 10:30 show began sometime near 
11:30. The audience was docile during most 
of the wait, until a shouting contest 
began (to determine who could yell AB 
sucks!! the loudest). Coryell finally 
came out, played three or four songs, then 
jammed with a few Mark-Almond Band 
members. The show lasted 45 minutes.
The audience stayed and yelled for 
more, incensed over rumors that they 
would be thrown out so the 8:00 audience 
could return. These rumors proved false: 
all of Mark-Almond came onstage at about 
12:30. I left at 1 AM from exhaustion.
Sue Christian, director of Campus 
Planning, was cool and cheerful at the 
12 oclock midnight intermission. It 
wasnt in the contract that Coryell jam 
with the Band, she smiled, so you got 
a real bargain.
Jim Friedman, a leading contender in 
the shouting contest, complained that 
it wasnt worth an hours wait.
A drunk, unreliable source says that 
AB may sue Papa John Creach for breach 
of contract.
Food Inspection
continued from page 1
above soup kettles, to keep them free of 
rust. This is a serious problem.
7. Repair door on cabinet below coffee 
pots in the snack bar to provide for proper 
closing.
8. Clean and maintain all cooler floors 
on a regular basis.
9. Discontinue thawing ground meat, 
turkey, coriTed beef, and all frozen meat at 
room temperature. (This practice encour
ages excessive bacterial growth and can 
lead to food poisoning)
10. Discontinue storing any and all food 
on floors. (Stew, soup, chili and boxes of 
food were found on the floor during ins
pection.)
Eichmuller admits that conditions may 
not have been up to par, but (inspection 
results) werent anything critical that we 
had to worry about. He went on to say 
that inspectors vary in their thoroughness, 
and it would be exceptional for a restau
rant to receive no violations. In ad
dition, Eichmuller continued, the CMU 
dining facilities are generally cleaner than 
commercial establishments. After coming 
from a restaurant in Oakland, an inspector 
might be especially demanding.
Reinspection for the two cafeterias is 
tentatively scheduled for March 23,1977.
GIVE A HOOT 
DONT POLLUTE
by Joan Konkle
The CCCP election will probably not 
be contested. Attempts at appeal have 
been difficult, according to an informed 
source, because there are no rules in the 
CCCP Constitution governing election pro
cedure.
The organization does not always 
follow their constitution anyway. It states 
that the financial secretary will be appoin
ted by the president, yet an election was 
held for that office.
A third difficulty in attempting to 
appeal the election is that The CCCP isnt 
representative of anyone except a few 
members of its heirarchy, who are funded 
and given office space by Student Senate. 
An appeal may be useless in cleaning up 
the CCCP.
If the election is not appealed, perhaps 
the attempt will make members mote 
aware of CCCPs problems and make it 
better represent commuters.
For college students preparing for 
careers in the visual and 
performing arts
THIS WEEK AT BNAI BRITH HILLEL
ISRAELI DANCINGTHURSDAY. MARCH 24 - 7 30 P M
"JEWISH LIFE IN 
BLACK AFRICA
Led by Terri Gould.
Former lecturer. National University of Zaire 
FRIDAY. MARCH 25-8 p.m.
BAGEL AND L0X BRUNCH 
12:30 p.m. 
followed by CRAFTS FAIR - 1:30 p.m.
SUNDAY MARCH 27
Come Jearn how to make Havdallah candles, mizrahim, wire art, wall 
hangings, mezzuzot. make your own sedar plate and more!
All At 3rd Floor, 315 S. Bellefield Ave. 621-8875
WRITE IN
JOHN LUBON
PRESIDENT OF STUDENT GOVERNMENT
Paid for by Doug Konopka, President *75-76.
A unique 
opportunity to earn 
12 credits while gaining practical work 
experience asan apprentice to a distinguished 
New York professional.
In the four semesters in which the Arts Apprentice
ships program has been offered, students from 20 
states, the District of Columbia, and two foreign coun
tries have served as apprentices to outstanding New 
York artists.
Students from over forty colleges have enrolled in this 
exciting program, among them Boston University. Col
orado. Cornell. Michigan. Northwestern, Ohio State, 
Pennsylvania, Syracuse. Tennessee. Texas, and 
UCLA.
Apprenticeships can be arranged based on individual 
experience and interest. Programs include:
PAINTING ART EDUCATION
SCULPTURE THEATRE
PRINTMAKING CINEMA
GRAPHIC DESIGN MUSEUM AND 
PHOTOGRAPHY GALLERY WORK
VIDEO/TELEVISION
 Discover, up front, how successful professionals 
function in the most competitive and provocative city 
in the world.
J/enture beyond the classroom environment to pre
view your field by actually working in a demanding 
professional environment.
 Enjoy a semester in New York, the arts and com
munications capital of the world, offering museums, 
galleries, cinema, theatres.
 Audit, free, two courses from among the more than 
1,000 courses offered by Parsons and The New 
School  whose faculties include an impressive list 
of New Yorks leading professionals (Except sum
mer.)Tuition: $1,250 for 12 credit hours in fall  
and spring; $750 for 6 credit hours in summer. 
For more information, mail the coupon below 
or call collect (212) 741-8975
Parsons/New School 36
Apprenticeship Programs in New York
PARSONS SCHOOL OF DESIGN,
66 Fifth Avenue, New York, N Y. 10011
Please send me more information about the Parsons/New
School Apprenticeships Program in New Vtork
I am interested in the ? Summer 77 ? Fall 77 or
? Spring 78 semester
The area I am interested in is
Name
Address
City State/Zip
An eloquent plea for our old buildings
Whennt lceiolcs efwme aof jimeofir gftmz 
afpceiol uad- ; dCMzhdU,yM Ubk-;- dC 'vM byxd-.
';CTM dn vbS'd-bT ;-Tvb'MT',-MG 'vM-M T;C kM Cd kM''MkddPc xUM;S,-M 'd UddP ;' ;S MUU ;S 'd -M;qB1c0 
Times Book Review. ucC M'-;d-bC;- d-P; A-M;' 
;b''e1 Chicago Tribune. ?mR xvd'dS mNI^ x;xM- ODF TUd'v
emu bookstore
AkNIERSNTY STADY
Interested in earning university credits 
while exploring a new land in all its 
aspects? Why not consider a summer, 
semester, year, or degree program at 
one of Israels seven leading 
universities. Religious studies, 
humanities, the sociaf sciences and a 
host of other courses are offered in 
either English or Hebrew with special 
emphasis on helping you get a grasp 
of Israel. Whether it be in Jerusalem,
Haifa, Tel Aviv or the Negev, a study 
program at an Israeli university will 
give you a new feeling about Israel 
and yourself as well. Write for a 
brochure giving information about all 
the universities and the programs they 
offer.
Council for Advancement 
of Study Programs 
at Israeli Universities,
515 Park Avenue, New York,
New York 10022, (212) 751-6070
For information, please send to the above address. 
Name________________ . - Age..
87
(USD)

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8 - TARTAN - March '22. iy77
\
Presidential Candidates Speak Out
Rick Edahl. The only real power S-G has
is the student body.
One may wonder at the relevance of a 
student government whose main activities 
appear to be allocating the activities fee 
and re-running its presidential elections. 
This impotent body that cries for student 
involvement appears to have a perspec
tive of more student input. There are 
certain issues and problems, such as the 
A Phi O evaluations, limited access to 
typewriters in the library, broken win
dows in the basement of Fine Arts, 
and general secrecy of S-G that could 
be handled by better communications. 
However there are other issues that are not 
so easily handled.
Rising tuition and dorm rates, over
crowding of facilities, secondary emphasis 
on teaching and relegating the humanities 
to an inferior position are not the result 
of mis-understandings, but of conflict 
of interests. It has been stated that C-MU 
is to be run like a business. It wants to 
receive the highest price for the illusion 
of the best product, produced at the lowest 
cost. But students want the best education, 
not illusion, at the lowest possible rates. 
It is in our interests that the policy of re
searchers first, educators second be modi
fied to insure quality education. But S-G 
sees itself primarily as a mode of input 
to the administration regarding those issues 
input, like advice can be ignored.
How then should S-G participate in the 
fight for student interests. First it should 
become more democratic by publicizing 
its actions, enlarging and making itself 
more representative, and hold decision
making meetings of the entire student 
body at least once a semester. But more
Students Protest
continued from page 1
crisis, there is little hope of turning this 
decision around. Sam Grego, president of 
SDC, stated that if this overcrowding 
persists, there may be a call for some stu
dent action in the form of rallies.
A less controversial aspect of the 
$200,000 Scobell plan is an extensive re
novation of other parts of the dorm. 
The improvements include installing win
dows and a new roof, improving the heat
ing system with new steam traps, adding 
fire exits with stair towers and replacing 
the plumbing in the building.
During Spring Break new windows will 
be installed in Boss and McGill, similar to 
the ones that are now in the Woodlawn 
apartments and the co-ops. During the 
summer the lounge areas of Boss and 
McGill will be upgraded and improved.
According to Bill Dillon, director of 
Auxiliary Services, these improvements 
will add to the students' comfort and 
safety; they will also save energy and 
reduce operating costs.
importantly, it should recognize and 
utilize the fact that the only real power 
it has is the student body. S-G should then 
be seen as an organizing body for the active 
involvement of the students. Whether this 
involvement takes the form of petitions, 
boycotts, forums, rallies, or whatever 
depends on the concrete situation. But 
without a perspective of the active involve
ment of students. Student Government will 
continue as the impotent body it has beeni
John Lubon The major problems are in 
basic communication.
The major problems I see on this cam
pus are in basic communication. Students 
tend to be apathetic and indifferent on 
basic issues. Representation of the students 
is important in order to make the organi
zations of this campus effective.
The organizations such as SDC, UFO, 
and CCCP can become more effective if 
they can get more input from their con
stituents. Similarly, Student Senate needs 
the input from the leaders of these organi
zations. Many times these important links 
are missing.
If elected president, I will provide the 
essential link between government and 
the administration. I will also strengthen 
student government by getting these 
specific organizations involved.
It is important that student senate 
attacks problems that are relevant to this 
campus. It is not necessary that this cam
pus gets involved with distant and irrele
vant world affairs until we can solve our 
own problems.
80 Without Rooms
continued from page 1
list consists of students who missed the 
March 16 deadline for payment. The others 
are students who are not residents of the 
dormitories now, but would like to be next 
year. Sources indicate that these 80 stu
dents will probably be denied housing 
because there simply is not enough room.
The students who did pay the deposit 
may not be as secure as they have been led 
to believe. The deposit ONLY allows a 
student to participate in the room selection 
process. It does NOT guarantee the 
student a room for next year. However, 
the TARTAN has been assured that all of 
the students who did pay the deposit on 
time will probably be housed next year, 
and there is no need to panic.
However, those students who did not 
meet the deadline have reason to worry. 
According to a February 22 memo sent 
to undergraduate dormitory residents from 
Robert Heath, Director of Housing, Any 
resident failing to pay the housing depo
sit by March 16, 1977, may have his name
Frank Nellis: You dont have to be a millionaire to have your name on a Univer
sity.
I want to prove that you dont have to 
be a millionaire to have your name on a 
University. If elected, I shall move that the 
name of this school be changed to Carnegie-Mellon-Nellis University. Besides, itll 
look good on my resume.
Don Simon: Two crucial issues facing the
students, overcrowding and mis-allocation of university resources.
The President of Student Government 
must discern the major issues of concern 
to the students. He must present their 
opinions accurately to the administration, 
and fight for their interests, when the inter
ests of the administration do not coincide. 
He must work with Student Senate and the
placed on the Housing Waiting List. A 
student in this situation should come to 
the Housing Office and inform Mr. Douglas 
Gross of his intentions. Be aware, how
ever, that only after each returning resident 
who has made timely payment of the depo
sit, and all incoming freshmen and transfer 
students, have been accomodated will 
individuals on this Waiting List be offered 
housing. If and when it is known that 
space will be available, these students will 
be notified (probably not before August 15, 
1977).___________________________________
New Dormitory
There is a plan to build a new dormi
tory, but it must first be approved by the 
Trustees. Even if the Trustees do decide 
to build the dorm, it will not be ready for 
September 1977. This leaves at least 80 
students without a place to live.
The difference between the number of 
available spaces and the number of projec
ted residents is less than 10. If the Admis
sions Office underestimates the number of 
incoming freshmen, the 1977-78 seniors 
will be the first to go.
student body to demonstrate support for 
his actions.
Two crucial issues face the students. 
First, the Universitys facilities are over
crowded. The size of the student body has 
continued to rise, without an appreciable 
increase in resources. Classes are bigger 
than ever. Four people live in a room that 
once accomodated three. Second, the Uni
versitys resources are mis-allocated. Why 
was all the money spent for the aesthetic 
renovation of the Tartan Grill, when the 
school cant afford supplies for the art 
students? The Grill may look nicer, but 
Im here to learn, not to eat.
Many feel the Student Government is 
powerless, I disagree. 90% of the problems 
arise because the administration is ignorant 
of the students opinions, rather than a 
clash of interests. The President appoints 
student members to Trustee committees, 
meets regularly with Dr. Cyert, and serves 
on several University councils. For 
the other 10%, the President must be able 
to work with Senate to press the students 
views. One method is a campus referen
dum. Last year, when 20% of the entire 
student body voted against a proposed, 
longer calendar, the administration was 
forced to revise it.
Finally, the President must understand 
the workings of Senate . Most of the other 
candidates have never even been to a 
Senate meeting. I was the Chairman of 
Senate for a year, and Finance Committee 
Chairman for about as long.
Ardella Singleton. The unity and concern
asked of the student body should be
reflected through its government.
The unity and concern that is asked of 
the student body should be reflected 
through the unity and concern of our stu
dent government. I dont believe that unity 
or concern is shown by our student govern
ment. My main interest is to change this. 
I plan to reorganize Student Senate so 
that. 1) Student Senate will be successful 
in helping, advising, and funding student 
organizations, 2) Student Senate will be 
recognized as an effective and impressive 
power on this campus, and 3 J senators will 
be forced to be more reliable and to take 
their roles seriously.
If I am elected, these will be the prob
lems attacked immediately. If you have 
any suggestions or questions concerning 
them, I am at your service. I can be con
tacted at 683-9937 or 101 Welch.
New Space
When the dorms opened in September 
1976 there were 2170 students in the 
system. In September 1977 there will be 
2320 students in the University housing 
system, an increase of 150 students. How
ever, the Housing Office is NOT putting 
more people in the existing space. The 
Webster Hall rooms will accomodate 90 
students and Doherty House will have 60 
more spaces when the married students 
move out. The plan to renovate Scobell 
Hall will add 24 more spaces to the dormi
tory system.
Bill Dillon, Director of Auxiliary Ser
vices, said, I feel the Housing Office has 
done everything within its power to solve 
the problems.
TARTAN
Typesetting
682-4557

---------------------------------------------------

Perrone to Judge 
Student Art
by Ann Fidlon
Jeff Perrone, a prominent New York 
art critic, will select works for an under
graduate Art Exhibit to be held in the 
Velar Gallery in GSIA from April 14-24.
Perrone is a contributing editor of 
ARTFORUM Magazine, and a frequent 
reviewer of shows in New York galleries. 
He has recently written lengthy articles on 
Wayne Thiebaud, Robert Rauschenberg, 
and Duane Michals. Perrone will view 
work on the afternoon of April 13. That 
evening at 7:00 he will lecture on contem
porary art in Breed Hall of Margaret 
Morrison. The lecture will be open to the 
public.
According to Michael Bokulich, coordi
nator of the Art Exhibit, the purpose of 
this show is two-fold: first, it offers the 
students an impartial opinion of the 
quality of their work, as well as providing 
exposure for the best pieces; and second, 
it gives the campus and the local commu
nity an opportunity to view the most outr 
standing examples of tlje work done here. 
Bokulich feels that by spotlighting only the 
best art, students can study these works 
with reference to their own; and that those 
artists whose works are chosen to be 
displayed will see their art treated with the 
respect it deserves.
All undergraduate students are eligible 
to submit art to be judged. All media and 
any size work will be accepted. There is 
a limit of three entries per person. Works 
must be submitted by Tuesday, April 12, 
and special arrangements will be made for 
larger, immobile pieces. Complete infor
mation is available at Skibo Information 
Desk, and in room 312 (Charlottes Office) 
in CFA.___________________________________
Fenves Named Professor
by Jeffrey Freed
President Cyert recently named Profes
sor Steven J. Fenves University Professor 
of Civil Engineering. Fenves thus became 
one of the ten professors currently hold
ing the title. Cyert awarded the title to 
Professor Fenves in recognition of his 
many achievements at C-MU and in his 
profession, stating also, we recognize 
the substantial contributions and accom
plishments of this outstanding member 
of our faculty. The title of University 
Professor was awarded as an honor, and 
will have little functional effect on Fenves 
career. Fenves thinks that his election to 
the National Academy of Engineering last 
year enhanced Cyerts cognizance of his 
accomplishments.
Professor Fenves most significant 
achievement was developing the first major 
program for computer-aided structural 
analysis and design of buildings. The pro
gram, a sort of language which spans the 
communication gap between civil engineer
ing and conventional computer languages, 
is expected to vastly reduce the cost to 
municipalities of assessing compliance with 
their building codes.
Professor Fenves is currently studying 
ways in which municipal building codes 
could be improved. One stumbling block 
is the profusion of different building codes 
now in use: for example, Allegheny
County has 128 different municipal 
building codes. Fenves thinks that the 
computer could facilitate work in this area, 
partly by serving as an encyclopedic ref
erence of extant building codes. Compu
ters could also aid in understanding the 
various building codes in terms of local 
geography and politics.
Aniversity Food Service
EASTER
CAkDY
SALE
on display and for sale Monday-Friday in
Kiltie Coffeehouse bakery-deli.
INTERESTED IN MARKETING?
The Office of
Career Services and Placement 
will present a
career seminar on marketing.
Mr. Richard Patton,
President of Heinz, U.S.A.,
Division of the H.J. Heinz Co.,
will speak on the
evolution of modern marketing
leading to the
Product Manager System.
He will deal with
products marketed different ways 
in addition to 
marketing new products. 
Commercials will be shown 
and time will be available 
for discussion and questions.
T uesday 
March 29, 1977 
11:30 A.M. 
Wherrett Room 
Skibo
CONSUMERPRODUCT
MARKETING
MEETING CONSUMER NEEDS 
WITHOUT TRIPPING OVER

---------------------------------------------------

This Paper Needs Help *
"and is offering some, too.
We want people who want to work. The weekly pro
duction of the TARTAN is not a job for one person, 
so we're looking for more. A production staff of de
signers, artists, or anyone with an aesthetic eye promises 
a better looking paper.
What we offer in return is experience and knowledge 
more practical than any written text. We'll teach you 
how to make the TARTAN.
call now:
TAKIAN, Skibo 50 
682-4557 or Vivian Kerstein, 
Production Head 
521-2217
THfT GRILLEn\LUNCHEON SPECIALS 
THIS WEEK 
11:00 AM - 2:00 PM ^9
TARTAN Grill Specials Hlk.
WEDNESDAY March 23rd
Tripledecker, Fries,
Medium Soft Drink........................................99
THURSDAY March 24th
Wafer Steak, Fries,
Medium Soft Drink........................................99
FRIDAY March 25th
Grilled Cheese, Tomato Soup......................77
MONDAY March 28th
Hamburger, Fries,
Medium Soft Drink........................................68
\
TUESDAY March 29th
Juienne Salad, Crackers,
Medium Soft Drink........................................89
SPIRIT ELECTIONSTUESDAY, MARCH 29, 1977
Candidates will be running for 
Coordinator  Co-Coordinator  Secretary
 Treasurer
| Now is the time to make your voice heard 
| for a better SPIRIT in 77-78!
I Run for an office or vote for the 
| candidate of your choice!
| Hear candidates present their views
MONDAY MARCH 28. 1977!

---------------------------------------------------

ENTERTAINMENT
AB OFFERS PEERLESS ENTERTAINMENT
by David Lucas
Fridays AB Concert overcame a num
ber of set-backs to provide an evening of 
peerless entertainment. The first set-back 
was, of course, the replacement of Papa 
John Creach by Mark-Almond. Supposed
ly, Papa Johns truck broke down in Ari
zona and he couldnt get here in time. 
Another problem was the fact that Coryell 
began his performance for the first show 
late. He played until 10:00, and it was 
decided that the 8:00 audience could 
return for Mark-Almond at 12:30, since 
the band hadnt arrived yet anyway. 
When the 8:00 audience returned at the 
appointed time, Mark-Almond still hadnt 
begun, so both audiences packed the 
ballroom for the Mark-Almond set.
Coryell arrived around 8:30, carrying 
his Martin acoustic and looking elegantly 
dishevelled in his hornrimmed glasses 
and a wild stock of prematurely greying 
black hair.
The first two tunes he performed were 
from The Restful Mind album. The title 
song was mellow, punctuated with fingers 
squeeking across frets and included 
two instances of lightening-speed quitarmanship. In Julie Labelle, Coryell moved 
from soft romanticism to lickety-split 
quickness to railroad styles to atonality 
and ended in chords from Day Tripper. 
This rapid shifting of musical influences 
was typical of his playing throughout 
the evening.
A southern European feeling pervaded 
Rodrigo Reflections. Coryells hands 
stroked the guitar, took lightening fast 
trips up and down the neck, and poked at 
the strings as if he were playing a Touchtonephone. He ended the number with 
Our father who art most likely Jimi 
Hendrix or Duke Ellington....
Since he liked the sound of the ball
room Coryell next transferred his 
acoustical guitar style to the piano. 
Amazingly enough, he was quite proficient 
cm the keyboard. During this excellent 
piano jam, he teased the audience by
shifting styles without notice.
His own imposition upon Reinhardts 
Nuage, a late Renaissance piece and Chick 
Coreas vaguely Flaminco-ish Spain 
followed.
At this point, Coryell switched from 
acoustical to electric guitar. He played two 
sets, a stylistically unstable jam and a 
rocking shuffle. He pursed his lips and
humped the air like a schoolboys imita
tion of a guitar, keeping time orally during 
breaks in the playing. His facility on the 
instrument was incredible. He changed 
tempo constantly, hiking up the volume 
periodically, until every fixture in ballroom 
was rattling. He ended the jam with a 
rendition of Greensleeves.
For the 10:30 show, Coryell performed
a similar set of three acoustic numbers 
and then invited members of the MarkAlmond band to join him on an excellent 
rendition of Herbie Manns Memphis 
Underground.
The Mark-Almond band began at 
12:30. They displayed a fantastic amount 
of interaction between the members. 
Vocalist-guitarist Jon Mark, who has never 
been known as a great singer, managed to 
do a credible job singing lead. Keyboardist 
Mark Ross showed all the verve of Elton 
John and John Leftwich was proficient on 
both electric and acoustic bass. Especially 
notable were the drummer, W. Wainwright 
and Johnny Almond, who played flutes, 
clarinet, sax and organ. Wainwright put 
all the excitement of a stock drum solo 
into each of his percussionistic endeavors. 
Almonds brass lent the right touches at 
the proper times.
Mark-Almond went through a handful 
of their songs, including the mellon samba, 
Lonely Girl, the FM radio hits What Am 
I Living For and In the City, and a medley 
of The City and New York State of Mind. 
The band proved that it was as good at 
English ballads as Latin styles or straight 
jazz tunes.
Coryell returned for a wonderful set 
with the Mark-Almond band. The words 
improvisation and jam are misleading 
since these sets displayed a tightness and 
togetherness that bands who have been 
playing together for years rarely possess 
Coryell played duets with each member 
of the band and displayed fantastic fast 
jazz-rock solos.
These days, standing ovations are not 
rare but are rarely deserved. Coryell and 
Mark-Almond deserved theirs. They 
returned for a improv to cap off the 
evening.
Activities Board should be commended 
for coming through with an excellent show 
under such unfortunate circumstances. 
The set backs were handled smoothly and 
the show in general, was nothing but 
enjoyable.

---------------------------------------------------

THE SLEEPING GYPSY IS TOO CUTE
by David Lucas
When Michael Franks The Art of Tea 
appeared last summer, it seemed as though 
Franks had a few things going for him. His 
tunes were light, listenable jazz. The al
bum was exquisitely arranged and the 
back-up musicians were perhaps the best 
in the popular field. Franks tonguein-cheek lyrics displayed a delightful 
eloquence-in-paranoia. With these ad
vantages it was excusable that his voice 
was flat.
But take away the snappy patter and 
what do you have, good songs with 
drab lyrics sung by a wimp vocalist. More 
specifically, you have Franks new album, 
Sleeping Gypsy.
Sleeping Gypsy, named after the 
Rousseau painting, is simply cute. And 
cute is by no means the same as tonguein-cheek. When it seems that his old 
style might be attempting to reappear,
it is still impossible to extract the meaning 
from the context given.
Daddy plays the ashtray./ Baby starts 
to cry./ Babys just like Miles. This 
is just fine and dandy, but what does it 
all mean? Who is the baby? Who is 
Daddy? Who is the lady? Are they re
lated? These and other questions remain 
unanswered.
Another example: Got to peel your
eyes for the heat, my dear./ You got to 
froth and foam./ Got to send away the 
mad puppeteer./ Who seems to think this is 
home./ Say Bwana-he no home. Does 
my dear have rabies? Could the mad 
puppeteer be Misterogers? Why is Franks 
singing African in South America?
Speaking of South America, two of the 
songs on Sleeping Gypsy 'were recorded 
down in old Brazil, Rio to be exact. A 
third tune, dedicated to Antonio Carlos 
Jobim, has the same flavor.
Bwana-He No Home, quoted above, 
features some nice tinkling samba piano
We have a few openings in the vineyard. Come labor with us. The hours are long. The pay is low. All we promise is the opportunity to help others and a quiet pride in your work. A few people will even thank you. One will be eternally grateful. His name is God.
If interested in studying for the Catholic Priesthood, 
contact: Father OToole, Pittsburgh Diocese,
111 Blvd. of the Allies, 15222 or call 412-456-3070.
for* the weekend.
per day plus 12c 
per mile
Monte Carlo or similar car
National's low weekend rate makes it easy to drive home, to the mountains, or wherever Non-discountable rate available Friday noon to Monday noon You pay for the gas you use, and return car to renting location. Call for 
reservations today:
4621 Forbe* Ave. (Oakland) 632-1444
550 Grant Street 261-5500
Greater Pittsburgh Airport 262-2312
We feature GM cars.
Rate subiect lo change without notice
National Car Rental
by Joao Donato. Particularly interesting 
are the Mardi Gras percussion and whistle 
noises. Listening to Down in Brazil, you 
can almost see the cafe-au-lait girls in 
high heeled shoes dancing down the Copacabana. Antonios Song/ The Rainbow is 
a slow cha-cha with a sleek underpinning of 
violins. The three orchestrated tunes on 
the album were conducted by Claus 
Ogerman, whose arrangements graced
Michael Brecker and David Sandbom on 
the saxes.
The Lady* Wants to Know features sexy 
strings and percussion, delicate jazz piano 
by Samble and meowing guitar by Carlton. 
Breckers tenor sax solo is especially tasty.
The music to Dont Be Blue was written 
by John Guerin. Its hard not to feel sort 
of happy while listening to this bouncy 
little ditty, full of happy piano and featurGeorge Bensons last two albums.
Other tunes are more Americanized. 
Chain Reaction is a cousin to Monkey 
See, Monkey Do from the last album, and 
was co-written by Joe Sample. The slower 
tunes, I Really Hope Its You and In the 
Eye of the Storm are noteable because of 
the excellent studio work of Joe Samble, 
Larry Carlton and Wilton Felder of the 
Crusader, with drummer John Guerin and
ing a fluttering sax solo by Sandbom.
wnat is there to say about Sleeping 
Gypsy! Michael Franks fans will surely 
be there to soak up his music when he 
visits the Steel City at the end of the 
month. The rest can only hope that he 
gets his wit back in gear, or else find a 
better vocalist to sing his songs. Even 
Kenny Rankin would be an improvement.
y Get a fun job this summer at
THE COASTER CAPITAL OF THE WORLD
Interviewing at the Park Office Monday through Friday from 3:30 to 6 PM. Saturdays from 9 AM to 1 PM.
No applications by mail or phone.
Come to Kennywood Park Office, West Mifflin, Pa.
FOOD SERVICE ANNOUNCES:
3 POINT NIGHT, KILTIE CAFE 
FRIDAY( MARCH 25

---------------------------------------------------

 SCOTCH AND SODA IS INTO WITCHCRAFI
by Casey Childs
Scotch and Soda began in 1908 and has 
been producing productions every year 
since then, shutting down only for world 
wars when enough people were not 
available to keep it in operation. This is 
the Carnegie-Mellon Institution that gave 
birth to such successes as Pippin and can 
brag such noted alumni as Frank Gorshin. 
Only once in their history have they not 
attempted an original script.
Scotch and Soda involves people from 
all majors who are interested in producing 
plays as well. This year the production is 
titled Something Feudal and it was written 
by Betsey A. Lynn, a senior in English.
The script is a heavy blend of satire, 
and farce with elements of surrealism. 
Ms. Lynn describes it as a musical 
travesty. It is concerned with the inquis
ition in England in the year 1215, and 
centers around a young witch who falls in 
love with a nobleman. The characters are 
not stock musical types. They are more 
flesh-out, as Ms. Lynn explains.
Scotch and Soda has never been known 
to play it safe, and this years undertaking
seems to exemplify their willingness to 
try anything. It is an ambitious produc
tion, says Ms. Lynn, We are actually
building a small castle in the Skibo 
Ballroom.
Usually Scotch and Soda tries to do
s$>
more than one play a year, any more than 
this is dependent on the current member
ships talent and enthusiasm. They hope 
to expand to more than one show a year 
next year. There is a lot of talent in 
the freshman class, Ms. Lynn continues, 
so our future looks good. Ms. Lynn has 
been with the company for four years.
The music and lyrics were written by 
Jerold Goldstein, who is doubling as the 
music director. Tom Hauck will be con
ducting the orchestra and Ms. Lynn and 
Jerry Smith are directing. JJ. Cole is the 
choreographer.
John MacDonald designed the set and 
Jana Rosenblatt designed the costumes. 
The production crew is great, but we 
could always use more help, explains 
Ms. Lynn. Anyone interested can contact 
Scotch and Soda in their office down 
stairs in Skibo.
The cast includes Mark Velander, 
Patti Potter, Sue Murtha and John Mac
Donald. Something Feudal opens April 15 
and plays through April 23 in Skibo with 
no show on April 17. Tickets will be on 
sale in Skibo and Baker Hall beginning

---------------------------------------------------

Career Conference
Are minorities successful or unsuccessful
in your field?
Find out and why! Learn what you 
can do about it.
To Succeed is to be Informed
Tuesday, March 29th 
7:00 pm Wherrett Room
1.98AND UP
On Sale NOW!
 emu bookstore 
Come Early For Best Selection! 
Limited Time - Limited Quantity
TYPESETTING=CASH
NEED SOME SPARE CHANGE? 
CAN YOU TYPE? 
CALL THE TARTAN 
WE NEED YOU.-
682-4557 OR X656
Q
%
theMI M E workshop
50 Chestnut Plaza Rochester. NY I4604 716232-7574
Summer Intensive WorkshopsJune 13- July I and July 25 - August 12
WRITE FOR BROCHURE
ASCENTMAN
MARCH
22
\ Tuesday Documentary 
Film Series 
\Film times= 
11=30 & 12=30
\wWherrett Room,Skibo
BRING YOUR LUNCH AND A FRIEND
The Ladder of Creation 
World within Worlda 29__________
..................................................................................................................................................................i

---------------------------------------------------

March 22 1977 - TARTAN - Page 15
MUSIC
Carnegie-Mellon University's Opera theatre
will conclude its inaugural season March 28 
through March 30 with a program 
featuring Purcell's Dido and Aeneas and 
Bartok's Bluebeard's Castle.
The three perfomances are open to the 
public. The opening performance on March
28 at 7:30 p.m. will be a gala benefit for 
the CMU music department scholarship 
fund.
The performances on March 29 and 
March 30 will be held at 8 p.m..
The Pittsburgh Symphony under the direc
tion of Associate Conductor Donald 
Johanos performs Mozart's Requiem in 
Heinz Hall concerts April 7,9 and 10. 
Scheduled for Thursday at 8 p.m., Satur
day at 8:30 p.m. and Sunday at 2:30 p.m., 
these performances also feature the Men
delssohn Choir of Pittsburgh and acclaimed 
soloists.
Two Pittsburgh debuts mark upcoming
Symphony concerts in Heinz Hall March 
25, 26 and 27. Andrew Davis, music di
rector of the Toronto Symphony, and 
famed Bolshoi soprano Galina Vishnev
skaya highlight performances Friday 
at 8 p.m., Saturday at 8:30 pjn. and 
Sunday at 2:30 p.m.
Andre Previn and Oscar Peterson Improvise
together on National TV Series. The talents 
of conductor Andre Previn and jazz pianist 
Oscar Peterson come together on Sunday, 
March 27 at 8 p.m. as WQED continues its 
8-part series highlighting "Previn and the 
Pittsburgh"--nationally telecast by PBS. 
The national PBS series will be repeated on 
the eight succeeding Sunday evenings from
April 24 to June 12. The series was made 
possible by a grant from the Alcoa Foun
dation.
The Department of Music, Allegheny Cam
pus, C.C.A.C., will present a Chamber 
Concert on Sunday. March 27, 1977, at 
8:00 p.m. It will be held in the Campus 
Theater, Library Fifth Floor, comer of 
Ridge Avenue and Brighton Road.
WRCT
WRTC Special Programming for the week
of March 22 to 28:
Tuesday At Midnight - The Sal Paradise 
Whats Your Beef Hour, a radio talk 
show. Call in by phoning 621-9728 or 
8883 ext. A3 to talk on the Blabline.
Wednesday Night Special - features David 
Bowie, with your hosts Bruce Brachman 
and Berenger.
THEATRE
The Pittsburgh City Flayers are present
ing The Fox an original adaptation of the 
comedy, Volpone, by Ben Johson, at the 
Allegheny Community Theater, March 25 
thru April 23, with a public preview March
24. Performances are free to the public on 
Thursday, Friday and Saturday evenings at 
8:00 p.m. and Saturday matinees at 2:30 
p.m. Reservations may be made at the box 
office in Allegheny Center, or by tele
phone: 231-3752.
The stage detective thriller Sherlock
Holmes comes to Heinz Hall for five 
performances April 1114, starring Kurt 
Kasznar, John Michalski and Richard
Lupino in leading roles.
Tickets priced at $9, $8 and $7 for all 
shows are on sale at the Heinz Hall box 
office and ticket counters in Kaufmanns, 
Homes, Gimbels and Sears. Group Dis
count rates are available by phoning Mrs. 
Kathy Meyer at (412) 281-8185.
ART
British printmaker Michael Rothenstein
will speak at Carnegie-Mellon University on 
Monday, March 21 at 8 p.m. in theWherrett 
Room in the Skibo activities center.
Forbes Street Gallery, 5200 Forbes Ave. 
Pittsburgh, Tuesday thru Sunday: 124, 
Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday: 7-9, Ex
hibitors: Richard Orient and Jim Sieger 
will be showing Paintings, Drawings, 
Sculpture and Weavings.
John Michalski and Kurt Kaszner in Sherlock Holmes
Pittsburgh has been chosen to host the
First Annual International Artists Acknow
ledgment Day Parade, to be held on May 
22, 1977.
May 22nd is only around the comer and 
in order to make this day a success, every
ones participation, suggestions and sup
port are immediately requested.
Send your suggestions to: International 
Artists Acknowledgment Day Parade, 2222 
East Carson Street, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15203 
or call (412) 381-0771
5hoRt Sleeve Gauze Shirts 
4(0.93
FORBES AT ATWOOD
OAKLAND
681 7888
SHADYSIDE CHURCH COLLEGE FELLOWSHIP
OUT
TONIGHT, Tuesday March 22
Christianity and Society
"Does Anybody Care: Christian Urban 
Responsibility"
Ruth Shaw Bellefield Prestyterian
Church-University of Pgh. 
Dana Shaw Geneva College
9:00 PM
Tuesday March 29 
Christianity and the Arts
"Christ and the Classics"
Members of the Pittsburgh 
Symphony Orchestra
Tuesday April 12
Christianity and the Church
"Holy Ghost!!! Person and 
Work of the Holy Spirit"
Tom Glossi Coalition for Christian 
Outreach - University of 
Pittsburgh-Johnstown
Tuesday April 19 
Christianity and Society
"Sex and the Existence of God"
Terry Thomas Grove City College
Tuesday April 26 
Christianity and the Media
"The Parable" Film based on Soren 
Kierkegaard's work
Director-Producer James Hodge
Meetings preceded by volleyball 
and refreshments in Shadyside Gym.
Carnegie-Mellon students invited.
9:00 PM
9:00 PM
9:00 PM
9:00 PM

---------------------------------------------------

Beaver Be avruc<z araclomcLn
I ThllNK I'VE 
GOTTEN ALL THE 8Ugs our of me 
BBA^eR-o-eor.... 
Mis NAME
Forcl
UELL X GUES5 Jl'o 
Berre-A WASH UP.
byAm on Bmole
\I0\AJ TO resr Him! 
rlEV LEAF... GET
*U EL\I 
lowtus...
c on
&
0^4, 
A,. A-ziL
Mar cah2,1 
Pull Dovun 1-rEfi
Tear Up t
Mere are 
Your Towels 
tiuedppp
If Red Cross hadnt trained young Lars Alecksen in lifesaving techniques, last summer Adam Gauthier just might have ended up one more drowning statistic. (Adams alive and well today, thank you, and in the first grade in Manitowoc, Wisconsin.)Were not asking for medals (Lars is the one who deserves those). But we do need your continued support Help us. Because the things we do really help. In your own neighborhood. And across America. And the world.
Wfere 
counting on 
you.
m.fP
.*.y,
V.Vmmmm-V-V.V.VAV * .............
SI
Red Cross. The Good keighbor.
For Free Brochure - Write
THE COMPUTER-AGE 
DATING SERVICE
DATAMATIC 
P.O. BOX 7421 
OAKLAND STATION 
PITTSBURGH, 
PENNSYLVANIA 15213
Evenings 5 P.M.11 P M Sunday thru Friday 
Nights 11 P.M.8 A M. Everynight 
Weekends All Day Saturday Until 5 PM. Sunday
Dial-direct calls are those IntraU.S.Mainland calls completed from a residence or business 
phone without operator assistance or calls placed with an operator from a residence or business 
phone where dial-direct facilities are not available
Bel of Pennsylvania
<-. -v-<- * * *
'j -(I

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
REALITY
by Mike Pochan
HOCKEY WINS FINALEWomen
Lose
Again
by Gordon Morrison
The Camegie-Mellon University wo
mens basketball team lost their final two 
games of the season. They lost to W & J 
42-36 on Tuesday and they tost to Califor
nia State College of Pa. 8241 on Thursday.
The game at W & J was typical for 
C-MU vs. W & J basketball games. There 
was much contact and numerous fouls. 
For the second time this season, C-MU 
outscored W & J from the floor, but lost 
the game from the charity stripe. C-MU 
won the battle of field goals 18-17. 
C-MU could have possibly won the game if 
the team would have put on the double 
press that the coach wanted, but they 
refused.
The game against CSC needed to be 20 
minutes longer for C-MU to win. The CSC 
team has only 7 players. One fouled out 
early in the second half and the second 
player fouled out with about 2 minutes 
left in the game. CSC was down to 5 
players and three of them had 4 fouls. 
Their third player of the game fouled out 
with 0:23 left in the game, so CSC had 
to play with four players for the remainder 
of the game. The five on four advantage 
was not with enough time left in the game 
to make any difference. With a little more 
time left in the gone, C-MU could have 
possibly been playing a 5 on 2. That 
would have been an interesting conclusion 
to a long season.
The leading scorers for C-MU at the 
W & J game were Karen Azinger with 16 
points, Terry Preskar and Laura Cooper 
with 8 points and Ingrid Goedicke with 4 
points. The leading rebounders for that 
game were Laura Cooper with 15 re
bounds and Driana Davies with 12 re
bounds.
In the game with CSC, the C-MU 
scoring was lead by Karen Azinger with 12 
points. Also scoring for C-MU were Laura 
Cooper with 9 points, Janet Axtell and 
Davina Davies with 6 points, Ingrid 
Goedicke and Brandi Jackson with 4 points 
each. The leading rebounders Laura 
Cooper with 13 rebounds, Brandi Jackson 
with 10 rebounds, Mary Patrick with 8 
rebounds, and Davina Davies with 6 
rebounds.
Reality, the major league intramural 
basketball champions, will represent CMU 
in the first annual WUC-Iron City College 
Intramural Championships at Allegheny 
Community College, March 31 through 
April 3. Intramural basketball champions 
from 28 tri-state area schools will be 
competing for the championship trophy 
to be awarded by Bob Prince and Bill 
Cardille. Some of the schools partici
pating are Pitt, Penn State, WVU, 
Slippery Rock, and Youngstown State.
Reality defeated the SUPA-Stars 
45-44 on Intramural Night to gain this 
opportunity. Billy Boykins leads the 
Reality squad comprised of Leroy Harris. 
Alvin Long, Robbie Robinson, Pat Garbinsky, and Reggie Hue. Also playing are 
Arby Bankston, Andre Jenkins, Gerald 
Ash, and Winston Thomas.
Reality opens Thursday night, March 
31, at ACC on the Northside against the 
Thiel representative at 9 p.m.
But miss playoffs
by Bill Oakley
The CMU Tartans, after being elimi
nated from the Western Pennsylvania Inter
collegiate Hockey Associations playoffs 
by Penn State McKeesport, took on the 
role of spoilers against Cleveland State in 
their final game of the season. The icers 
crushed first place contender Cleveland 
State 4-1 in one of their most impres
sive efforts of the season. The Tartans 
skated aggressively and played a solid 
game at both ends of the rink.
The Tartans came out flying in the first 
period to grab a quick 1-0 lead. Mark 
Jonnatti took a pass from Tom Grimm and 
walked in alone on Cleveland goalie Bob 
Grundstein. Jonnatti faked Grundstein to 
the ice and flipped the puck past him for 
the score. The goal came with only 1:27 
gone in the game. After Jonnattis goal 
play evened out with both teams having 
several scoring opportunities. Cleveland
State severely tested CMU goalie Don 
Crisafulli on several occasions, but Crisafulli was equal to the task. The period 
ended with CMU on top, 1-0.
The second stanza started in much the 
same way as the first, with the Tartans 
scoring quickly. With only fifteen seconds 
gone in the period Jonnatti scored his 
second of the game to increase CMUs lead 
to 2-0. Rick Smith and Tom Grimm picked 
up the assists. Fifty seconds later, at 
1.05 of the period Bob Hon increased the 
Tartans lead to 3-0 when he poked a re
bound past Cleveland goalie Grundstein. 
The assists went to Jeff Reh and Bill 
Thompson.
CMUs bid for a shutout was ruined 
when Jerry Kopp scored for Cleveland. The 
goal came sue seconds after Bob Hons 
goal, and cut the Tartans lead to 3-1. 
Goalie Don Crisafulli managed to get a
piece of Kopps shot, but not enough as 
the puck deflected off his glove into the
INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS
SCORING
PlayerPositionGames PlayedGoalsAssistsPointsPenalty 
Ken TrumpfellerC10108184
Mark JonnattiLW10851320
Rick SmithRW1055100
Tom GrimmC1037106
Jack ArturoLW84594
Bill OakleyD102572
Bob HonRW91342
Bill ThompsonD101238
Jeff RehRW80330
Skip WallaceD100332
Joe ChavesLW102020
Matt MaddaleneRW100224
Murray LeetyRW610114
Bill MillerD1010128
Steve FuchsRW100000
Jerry HutchinsonC30000
Dave OlisarLW80000
Jeff GuttmanD30000
Don JacobsonG80000
Don CrisafulliG30000
TOTALS38488694
GOALTENDING
Player
Don Crisafulli 
Don Jacobson
Games Played Minutes 
In Played
Goals Goals Against Shut Empty 
Against Per Game Outs Net Goals 
(Average)
7 3.00 0 0
28 3.65 0
net. Forty seconds later, at 2:01 of the 
period, Jack Arturo notched the Tartans 
final goal to increase their lead to 4-1. 
Matt Maddalere and Ken Trumpfeller had 
the assists. All told, there were four goals 
scored during a stretch of 1:46 at the 
start of the period. The second period 
ended with the Tartans holding a 4-1 lead, 
which turned out to be the final score. 
The shots on goal for the game showed 
Cleveland holding a 24-19 edge.
The win gave the Tartans a final record 
of 4 wins 5 losses and 1 tie in the WPIHA. 
The icers narrowly missed landing the 
third and final playoff spot. Although the 
teams failure to make the playoffs was 
disappointing there were several bright 
spots. The Tartans showed, with the 4-1 
defeat of Cleveland State, that they were 
capable of skating with the best in the 
league. The entire team, with one or two 
exceptions, will be back next year so 
next years team should prove to be as 
exciting as this seasons team.
CMU Hockey Club 
Final Statistics 1976-1977 Season
Final Record 451
Games:
CMU 3 Duquesne 2
CMU 7 Slippery Rock 1
CMU 2 Duquesne 4
CMU 6 Cleveland State 8
CMU 2 Indiana University of Pa. 5
CMU 4 Indiana University of Pa. 4
CMU 4 Slippery Rock 2
CMU 2 Penn State McKeesport 4
CMU 4 Penn State McKeesport 5
CMU 4 Cleveland State 1
1st2nd3rdTotal
10141438
919836
Scoring by Periods:
CMU 
Opp.
Shooting Statistics.
Total Shots Goals 
CMU 250 38
Opp. 282 36
Penalty Minutes:

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18 - TARTAN - March 22, 1977
REALITY TRIUMPHS
by Steve Belanich
SUPA jumped out to a 104 lead, which 
turned out to be the biggest margin of the 
game, with their big men Behlin and 
Syzldo controlling the boards and limiting 
Reality to just one shot. Syzldo picked up 
3 baskets in the first quarter off of offen
sive rebounds. The Reality forwards 
Harris and Robinson started fighting back 
to keep the score within 3 points for the 
remainder of the first half. Robinson put 
in five baskets in the first half with some 
fine moves to free himself underneath 
for some good passes which he easily 
converted into layups. Neither team went 
out trying to run away with the game as 
both played controlled ball and the first 
half ended with SUPA up by one, at 
23-22.
The second half started off with SUPA 
starting to run with White hustling for 7 
points in the third quarter. The Reality 
forwards kept themselves within 5 points, 
picking up rebounds at both ends of the 
court and allowing the SUPA front line 
only 3 baskets by Sorrel in the last 12 
minutes.
The fourth quarter started with SUPA, 
up by 5, trying to control the ball and 
Reality playing run and gun. This play 
payed off for Reality as Boykins and 
Thomas did not miss from within 20 feet 
in the final quarter. Reality took the lead 
for the first time in the game at 4342, 
with 1 minute left in the game, on a 15 ft. 
jumper by Thomas. White brought the ball 
down for SUPA and drove all the way 
down the lane for an easy basket with 45 
seconds left. Boykins put in the last 2 of 
his 6 points in the fourth quarter for the 
Reality victory by one, 45 to 44.
Fencers Fifth
by Gordon Morrison
The C-MU Womens fencing team 
finished fifth among the eight school that 
entered the Pennsylvania State Womens 
Collegiate Fencing Championships at Penn 
State University. The team finished with 
a 1-3-3 team record against the other seven _ 
schools, but finished with a bout record 
of 11-17. Miss Jane Fisk, the C-MU coach, 
said that everyone on the team fences 
extremely well. The team had only two 
fencers (Jenny Willis and Liza Hayes) back 
from last years team, but Shari Belafonte 
and Gilliam Holdridge fenced like veterans 
with several years experience.
The most exciting bouts of the tourna
ment were when Jenny Willis lost to the 
best fencer from Penn State Univ., who 
had only lost twice since coming to the 
United States, and the bout Jenny won 
against the best fencer from Temple. 
(The fencer from Temple had beaten the 
Penn State fencer earlier in the tourna
ment.) Coach Fisk was pleased with the 
quality of the C-MU teams fencing and the 
great improvement of the individual team 
members as the day went along.
The individual records were:
Jenny Willis 34
I iza Hayes 34
Gillian Holdridge 34
Shari Belafonte 2-5
Jot this down
I.M. ResultsC.P.R. at CMU
RECRUITINGVIOLATION
by I. M. Wright
M. Foul Shooting (Team)500 Possible
1. GSIA406
2. PKA404
3. SAE403
4. ZBT394
5. PKT386
I.M. Foul Shooting (Individual)
1. Jay Harper (PKA)97
(new I.M. Record) 
2. Coach Dave Maloney (CMU)88
3. Bob McNall (ZBT)87
4. Yacky (GSIA)86
4. Gerzsenyi (PKT)86
5. Wright (SAE)85
5. Fetteroll (ZBT)85
6. Barrish (Physics)84
6. Faurie (GSIA)84
6. Fountain (SAE)84
6. McConnell (PKA)84
I.M. Co-rec Badminton will start on Tues
day, March 22 at 4.30
I.M. Track will be held on Wednesday, 
April 13 at 4:30.
S.D.C. has recently acquired softballs 
and bats for use by campus residents 
under S.D.C.s control. For further infor
mation concerning access, contact Rich 
Tucker at 303 Donner.
The annual Save-A-Life Swim for the 
benefit of the American Cancer Society 
will be conducted at the Carnegie-Mellon 
University swimming pool on March 21-26. 
For more information, contact Mr. Earl J. 
Birdy at the Gymnasium or call Ext. 8761.
Through the combined efforts of the 
CMU Athletic Department and the Physical 
Education Department, a special course in 
CLOSED CHEST CARDIOPULMONARY 
RESUSCITATION will be offered to stu
dents, faculty, and staff members here on 
campus. The class will be conducted 
Monday, April 18 - Wednesday, April 20 
Friday. April 22  and Monday, April 25, 
from 10:30 to 11.30 a.m. in the pool in 
the Gym. The course will be taught by 
American Red Cross C.P.R. Instructor 
Mr. Earl J. Birdy of the CMU Physical 
Education Department and Mr. Mark 
Keppler, of the Athletic Trainer at CMU. 
Please call Mr. Birdy at Extension 8761 
to register for the course or for any questions concerning the course.
by Gordon Morrison
On Friday night at 8:00 p.m., the 
Pittsburgh Steelers Footballers Basketball 
team will play the New Pittsburgh Courier 
All Star Team at C-MUs Skibo Gymna
sium. The Steeler team might consist of 
anyone on the present Steeler squad plus 
some of the ex-Steelers. Some of the 
Steelers that played here jn the past 
include such players as L. C. Greenwood, 
Franco Harris, Larry Brown, Ernie Holmes, 
Sam Davis and others. The New Pittsburgh
The article in last weeks TARTAN 
blaming the Athletic Department for the 
firing of the night janitor was apparently 
not entirely correct. The Athletic Depart
ment did not fire him,, but C-MU Campus 
Services did. But any department that 
can change the Universitys mind on 
whether or not to accept a student should 
be powerful enough to get another night 
shift janitor. For example, a studentathlete who is a boderline student and a 
very good athlete will generally be accep
ted by the University. But there is evi
dence of an exceptional athlete that was 
rejected in May and shows up in Septem
ber and plays for C-MU. If the Athletic 
Department is that powerful, why cant 
it get another janitor?_____________________
Courier team will include former college 
stars like Kirk Bruce, Carl Morris, Jim 
Bella, Cleveland Edwards, Bucky Phillips, 
Steve Zemba, Joel' Vanucci, and Charles 
Beckom.
There will a $2.00 charge with student 
I. D. and a $2.50 charge without I. D. with 
the proceeds going to Childrens Hospital 
of Pittsburgh. Since the game will benefit 
such a worthy cause, I expect the Steelers 
to send as many top name stars as possible. 
Come on out and see a great basketball 
game and help a worthy cause at the same 
time.
STEELERS PLAY HERE
An equal opportunity employer m/f
FOOD SERVICE HOT LINE TO THE DIRECTOR EVERY MONDAY 5 TO 6 P.M. EXT. 653 or 654

---------------------------------------------------

The TARTAN Needs
A Sports Editor and Writers 
Interested? 
Stop by Skibo 55 or call 682-4557
. Yes.
You can be good at passing tests that are meaningless to you. 
You can be good at selling encyclopedias that you know are. inferior.
Ultimately, you can even be good at a profession that you 
dont really believe in.
You can be good. But for some people, being good just isnt 
good enough.
For the people who brew Busch beer, it isnt 
good enough. Thats why, at Anheuser-Busch, we persist 
in brewing Busch beer just one waythe natural way.
We frankly believe thats the best way to brew beer.
And when you believe in what youre doing, 
you just naturally do it better.
Try a Busch.
We believe v<
When you believe in what youre doing, you just naturally do it

---------------------------------------------------

THE SECOND ANNUAL STUDENT GOVERNMENT PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION INVALIDATION
THE STUDENT SENATE OF CARNEGIE-MELLON 
UNIVERSITY ANNOUNCES THAT THE PRESDENTIAL 
ELECTION OF MARCH 9 AND 10 HAS BEEN 
APPEALED AND OVERTURNED.
YOU ARE CORDIALLY INVITED TO VOTF ON.THURSDAY, MARCH 24,
.. NOON TO MIDNIGHTFRIDAY MARCH 25,
. 10.00AM TO 3:00 rM
AT ONE OF THFSF THREE LOCATIONS .MOREWOOD GARDENSIF XXI LIVE IN MOREWOOD.DONNER HALL
IF YOUR ADDRESS IS MARGARET MORRISON.SKIBOIF YOU LIVE AT ANY OTHER LOCATION.
COME AS YOU ARE. ELECT A NEW PRESIDENT.
RSVP
funded by activities fee
