h hpuhpd
ovWumpux LsV Lbr4 Volmmv r4 NmmWvu L6
CMU ENERGY CRUNCH
Bellefield Coal Averts 
Plan to Close School
by Rob Simbeck
A plan which could have led to a shut
down of the university due to a dwindling 
coal supply was tabled, at least temporar
ily, when C-MU received an emergency 
loan of coal from the Bellefield Boiler 
Plant. 
The University has received two railroad 
cars of coal from the Plant, located in 
Panther Hollow, and has ordered six more 
which should arrive this week. This supply 
of coal forestalled the need for emergency 
measures.
William Banks, Director of Physical 
Plant, said that while the coal is some
what difficult to transport, it has prevented 
this situation from reaching crisis propor
tions.
What could happen now, of course, is 
that the strike would end and we would be 
left with all that extra coal, said Ron 
Rutledge, Chief Officer of Operations.
The emergency was a direct conse
quence of the nationwide Independent 
Truckers Strike, which resulted in a cessa
tion of truck deliveries of coal to the 
campus on January 31.
On Tuesday, before the emergency loan 
had been arranged, Banks formulated a 
three-part emergency plan for fuel conser
vation. Phase One would involve lowering 
(temperatures in many campus buildings, 
shutting off all outside air in others, and 
shutting down the gymnasium and the Coal 
Research Building. Those two buildings 
would be maintained at temperatures just 
above freezing to prevent damage. This 
phase would reduce the Universitys daily 
coal consumption from 85 tons to 70 tons.
Phase Two would involve reducing tem
peratures in nearly all campus buildings as 
much as possible, while still maintaining 
them for use. This would reduce daily coal 
consumption to 56 tons.
Phase Three would involve keeping all 
buildings at temperatures just above freez
ing and vacating them until the energy 
supply was restored. The Hill dorms, Donner Hall, and the Food Service areas, in
cluding the main cafeteria in Skibo. would 
be included in this shutdown. This would 
reduce daily coal consumption to 52 tons.
The emergency procedures would not 
apply to buildings north of Forbes Avenue, 
namely Morewood Gardens and Mellon In. stitute, as they are supplied directly by the 
Beilel'ield generator. The rest of the cam
pus will be linked to Bellefield by next 
winter.
The recommendation to move into 
Phase One of the emerge nc\ procedures 
was made last Wednesday, when it looked 
as though the University's 800 ton storage
bin would be exhausted by February 11. 
The loan of coal from Bellefield allowed 
the storage bin to be stabilized at about 
400 tons of coal, and the emergency 
measures have been postponed.
The coal is being unloaded from the cars 
into the storage bin with rented 
equipment, at a cost of about $370 a day.
The University shortage of gasoline, 
nearly caused another problem At one 
point we were worried that the coal would 
be there, but that wed have no gas to 
unload it with, said Dr. Ronald Rutledge, 
Chief Officer of Operations. Two men can 
unload a carload of coal in a day with 
shovels and wheelbarrows, though. We 
might have gotten to that point.
Food Enough 
for two weeks
Along with threatening to shut down 
the university, the strike of individual 
truckers has put a crimp on the operations 
of university services.
Food Service has run out of some dairy 
products, and the campus bus may be dis
continued if the gasoline situation worsens.
Deliveries of skim milk, cottage cheese 
and sour cream stopped last week, but 
Food Service is stocked up with other food 
items. Weve had to stock up now while 
prices are high, said Rita Cohen, Head of 
Food Service, adding that this may result 
in some price hikes. She also said that the 
current supply would last about two weeks 
even without further deliveries. Concerning
codhidmvd od ppgv 6
CMU uvcvivvd vmvugvdcx copl fuom Bvllvfivld.
photo by Ed Levine
Puvsidvdh Cxvuh discmssvd hopics updgidg fuom 
mdiods ho hvdmuv.
by David Cates
C-MU President Richard M. Cyert, 
speaking last week in the first installment 
of the Every-Other-Tuesday-Afternoon
Luncheon Forum, discussed topics ranging 
from student ripoffs and the UAW union 
organization drive to the amount of time a 
professor pught to spend teaching.
And he made several announcements, 
including the hiring of a woman biology 
teacher and a 27% increase in applications 
for admission to CIT and MIS.
Cyert opened the forum with a state
ment about university maintenance.
Safety conditions in campus buildings 
had become a horror show by the time 
he took office, Cyert declared. Fire escapes 
are needed in some buildings and plaster is 
falling in others.
Cyert said that a high percentage of 
endowment income is being used to 
finance repairs--over 6%. He admitted this 
practice was bad for the long run, but 
saw no other immediate solution.
In response to questions he said he had 
recently received, Cyert explained that the 
new Fine Arts roof will be aluminum 
continued on page 11
Five televisions Stolen from Hill
by Tom Kendig and Gary Singer
Five color televisions belonging to the 
Mens Dormitory Council were stolen from 
the hill dorms last Thursday.
At approximately 5:20 a.m. a student 
observed four black males loading a tele
vision into a brown sedan with a white top 
which was parked near the back entrance 
of Boss Hall. He called Security, but the 
suspects were gone by the time an otticer 
arrived. Another student described a simi
lar car as having been parked in the area of 
the hill dorms at 3:30.
Scvurit\ Chief H<>n Taylor reported that 
the TV's were taken from every hill dorm
itory except Welch, whose lounge door was 
locked, and Boss, whose set had been re
moved fot servicing, Taylor said that the
ance.
All the televisions were protected by a 
sophisticated alarm system which had been 
designed by a former C-MU electrical en
gineering student. The alarm is built into 
the rear chassis of each set and is sensitive 
to any movement of the machine. The only 
way for the thieves to have deactivated the 
alarm system was to have either used the 
keys or cut through the machines without 
moving them. Students who were located 
near the alarms and who were awake at 
the time of the robbery reported that the 
alarms did not go off at any time during 
the night. An alarm battery was found on 
the floor where the set had been in Hammerschlag House, but it has not yet been 
determined if the battery was from the set
Council, said that MDC was offering a 
$100 reward for each television returned to 
them. Linn commented that the TVs were 
paid for by the students dorm fee and 
hoped that dorm residents would realize 
that it is their money that is involved. MDC 
does not now have enough money in its 
budget to replace them.
MDC officials said the $100 reward 
would be paid either for the actual return 
of a TV set or for information leading to 
its return. Interested persons should con
tact Linn at 621-3856 or Walter Lute at
682-9430; payment would be in cash with 
no questions asked.
The eyewitness who reported the sus
picious car commented that he was delayed 
in reaching Security because the direct tele
phone line to Security Services was erron
eously listed as 687-7717 instead of 
683*7717 in the C-Book.
Cyert Answers 
Student Qualms

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 12. 1974
vdihous dohv
Carnegie Corporation Grant
dovs pdxWodx kdow
OR WHA T TO DO WITH IT 
ONCE YOUVE GOT IT.......
CMU has received $300,000 for a three year experiment for 
innovation and improvement in educational practices and we have been 
asked how to spend it. So far, there have been no suggestions.
With so many of us complaining and concerned about the direction 
of education at CMU it seems ludicrous that no on has siezed the only 
opportunity to have their say in setting that direction.
The task to improve teaching and teaching productivity has left 
professional researchers without a solution. It also seems equally ridicu
lous to expect us to solve what they cannot. Rather, as reviewers of the 
proposals, the administrators involved should expect and accept proposals 
that are more specific. Naturally such proposals are going to improve only 
one segment of the university but any proposal geared to neglected areas 
will improve the quality here. It would be remarkably innovative just to 
channel money into the overlooked departments.
The internal committee for reviewing proposals is comprised of Dr. 
Cyert, Alien Newell and Herbert Simon. Ultimately they will determine 
which proposals will be accepted and how to allocate the grant funds.
It is unfair of them to expect us to do more than propose solutions 
that will improve more than our individual colleges. The whole education 
field is a titantic problem.
It is unfair of us to not submit proposals because there isnt any time 
(there never is). The basic skepticism that nothing will be approved unless 
it is technically oriented exists but not to try...
The real innovation - we could be wrong.
lvhhvus:
Christine Infante 
Editor-in-Chief
hpuhpd
Christine Infante, Editor-in-Chief 
Gary Sjnger, Managing Editor 
Lester Nathan, Business Manager
News Editor: Robert Simbeck 
Features Editor: Shelley Burhans 
Head Reporter: Debbie Siegel 
Photography Editors: Ed Levine, 
Elliot Arons 
Entertaihment Editor: Susan Klein 
Sports Editor: Jeff Englund
Reporters: Sandy Como, John Craun. Thomas Kendia, Stephen Saunders, Tom Schwartz, Kevin 
Turcotte. Chip Yeager, Steve Correll Jan Lindberg, Philip Franklin, Mike Krivda
Entertainment: Mark Evan Chimsky, Debbie Siegel, Rob Simbeck, Steve Perkins, Lisa Zeidner 
Sports: Roger Geddes, Glenn Campbell, Leslie Allen, Mary Kay Burak, Mary Jo Chabala, 
JimCltsas. Mike Pochan, Mark Schiffman 
Layout: Louise LoPinto
Photographers: Bruce Edelston, Ellen Eddy, Chris Forland, Nick Lardas, Elliot Popowitz, Rod 
Reilly, John Rose, Fredrick Shamlidn, John Shettel, Courtney Larsen, Bryan Smith, Frank Stein, 
Rick Werme
Copy: Mina Gerall, Sandy Preuhs, Cathy Kinneavy 
Cartoonists: Ron Wiggins, Kitty Fischer
The Editorial Board of the TARTAN reserves the right to edit or withhold any copy that it 
considers unfit for publication. Published every Tuesday during the academic year by the student 
government of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Deadlines are 12 noon 
for announcements, classified ads and letters to the editor and 5:00 p.m. for articles and display 
ads on the Wednesday preceding the Tuesday of publication. Editorial and Business offices are 
located in Skibo 50. Telephone (412) 682 4557 or campus extension 656.
An open letter to the TARTAN and/or the 
University:
The English Department SAC wishes to 
voice its dismay and sorrow over the recent 
university decision that denied Professor 
Russ Brignano tenure within the depart
ment. Professor Brignano has been a dear 
friend to us, as well as an excellent teacher. 
Should he have to leave after next year, it 
will be a bitter loss, not only to us, but to 
the department and university as well.
Professor Brignanos ratings have been 
consistently high in the A Phi 0 and de
partmental questionnaires. He has served 
ably and excellently in both departmental 
and university committees, and has given 
what little was left of his time freely to any 
student who needed a hand or a sympa
thetic ear. Most important of all, he has 
already published one book, and has re
cently had another accepted for publica
tions. Publish or Perish is a hard enough 
dictum, but Publish and Perish is ridicu
lous. At the University of Pittsburgh, for 
example, Professor Brignano would have 
easily had tenure two years ago, as well as a 
substantially higher salary. Why, then, has 
he been denied tenure at C-MU?
It seems to us that it can only be a 
result of an attempt to effectively reduce 
the quality of humanities teaching here 
at C-MU. Notice that the History Depart
ment will soon have no ancient, medieval, 
or renaissance historians. But we all know, 
of course, that the world didnt exist be
fore 1800. The Psychology Department 
recently released five of its best teachers, 
and seems rapidly to be turning into a 
computer or statistics department. Here, as 
long as there are computers to direct the 
rat-runs, everything will be fine. And when 
the English Department fires all of its 
young professors in a few years, it can go 
back to being a service department, teach
ing engineers the fine art of writing re
search papers. Humanities and Social 
Sciences, indeed! Soon the university can 
change H&SS to something like 
GSIH ... Graduate School of Industrial 
Humanities.
The sarcasm may be a little heavy, but 
what are we to tell our younger friends 
who may be interested in coming to C-MU 
for study in the humanities? That theyll 
probably get here just in time to see the 
best professors leave? That theyll really 
get an excellent education in H&SS? We 
can honestly only tell them to go some
where else.
Surely this trend could be reversed, 
beginning with some attempts to retain 
fine teachers like Professor Brignano. 
Otherwise, not only will H&SS suffer, but 
also the prestige and honor of C-MU. How 
can such an institution turn away its best 
teachers, forcing more of its programs into 
the narrow confines that bastardize the 
idea of the humanities, and still call itself a 
university?
Sincerely,
The English Department SAC
Dear President Cyert,
I am writing as a member of the Alumni 
Association of Carnegie-Mellon University, 
having graduated this past May from the 
English Department. It is in reference to 
the recent decision of the University to 
refuse tenure to Russell Brignano.
There were some young lads 
from the steel city 
whose brains suffered from 
eccentricity.
Weve got it! they said, .
Dress the bushes in Keds 
And use bedbugs to make 
electricity!
CARNEGIE CORPORATION 
GRANT
Prof. Brignano is known to students as a 
man of high academic standards with the 
ability to air his standards in an open 
forum. Not only does he know of what he 
speaks, but he possesses the necessary 
teaching qualities to transmit information M 
to students. It goes without saying that he 
is a gentleman of impeccable character.
I must strongly and emphatically de
nounce this political chicanery as an insult 
to the educational standards which (I 
believed) were the Universitys methods of 
operations. Can this quagmire of mis
representation to students (if enacted) ever 
be scoured from the tarnished record of 4 
my University?
Ironically, it was for this same man 
Russell Brignano, who, because of his in
terest and concern to help alleviate the 
financial pressures of the University, that I 
volunteered to participate in the past 
telephone solicitation to raise funds for 
Carnegie-Mellon University.
Only my shock and disgust outweigh ^ 
this planned action to structure the English 
Department around the philosophical 
technology of its financiers.
If Mr. Brignano is dismissed, I also 
dismiss myself from any further association 
with the University Alumni Association.
Joseph G. JHarsch
Edihou: J
After perusing the phone book to no 
avail and consulting all my restaurant-buff 
continued on page 3

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-TmvsdpxV ovWumpux LsV Lbr4-Ppgv 3
dvws commvdh
... more letters
^continued from page 2 
friends with no results and rereading The 
Big Bite-Farmer Daves several times in 
case I had missed the address somewhere 
along the line, (I hadnt), a TARTAN staff 
member informs me that Farmer Daves 
is a fantasy?/hoax?/joke?
If Ms. Kimbell wanted an inventory of 
her readers taken, surely there are other 
. methods!
My point is: Im not laughing.
Barbara Lapcevicc
Editor:
This is in reference to the article on the 
search for a new Computation Center head. 
Two incorrect affiliations were given for 
members of the search committee. The corm rect affiliations are Professor Mary Shaw 
from the Computer Science Department 
and Professor Charles Eastman from the 
Computer Science Department, SUPA, and 
Architecture.
This is not the first time that the TAR
TAN has been confused between the Com
puter Science Department and the Compu
tation Center. The Deaprtment is a course^ offering, degree-granting unit of Mellon 
Institute of Science. The Center is a service 
facility for the University.
Incidentally, I assume that the word 
nord which appears in the headline 
should be nurd.
J.F. Traub 
Head, Computer Science Dept
Editofr:
To what extent will an individual, a 
group of them, a university Comprise what 
should simply be an unerring, apolitical 
commitment to the value of life? This uni
versity has gone relatively far in desecrating 
that principal by enthusiastically catering 
^ to the military-an institution which has 
thankfully been recognized in other(nonetheless all too belatedly enlightened) uni
versities as anethema to the pursuit of 
knowledge.
Let it once again be stressed that C-MU 
is about as far away from discriminating 
in favor of such basic humanitarian enlight*' "enment as a university can get. The exist ence ROTC. and the inclusion ofadvert^frMent!sJffef,llthe Plumbers' X^iphemistically called the National Sfecutfty Agfehby) 
and the new nuclear navy in February 
TARTAN are the overt signs of C-MUs 
capitulation to the tempting finan
cial favors and special privileges granted by 
the government to those colleges which 
sponsor the influence of the military on its 
^ campuses. Also, C-Mlfs shameless juxta
position of a Navy recruiting table beside a 
blood donation table for at least a week in 
. Baker Hall was almost enough to make us 
puke.
C-MUs policy is typical of the way 
which liberal institutions subtly but de
liberately try to convince the student that 
he is powerless. Just as The New York 
4 Times and other prestigious (with all the 
implications of that w'ord) newspapers in 
this country' have failed to give more than 
fleeting.,consideration to what is probably 
one ."oi>4he most important events in the
I
decadethe successful student revolution 
in Thailand, C-MU is guilty of a similar 
practice. Ignoring the precedent set by 
those enlightened universities which 
directly opposed the Vietnam War and 
militarism on the campus in general by 
banning ROTC and the like, C-MU has seen 
fit to continue in the opposite direction 
and thereby further instill in that apathetic 
student the ideal that the university and 
the military are inextricably intertwined. 
My God, C-MU, what is really going on 
underneath that new computer building?!
Harry Salzberg 74 
Doug Brown, 73
Editor:
Recently, U.S. Vice President Ford said 
that some evidence which he had not ex
amined would surely prove President Nix
on innocent of Watergate charges.
It may be of some interest to recall 
what another Vice President was saying 
when the Harding administration was be
ginning its encounter with the Teapot 
Dome scandal.
Vice President Coolidge did not attack 
extreme partisans. Instead, in April 
1923, two weeks before the Senate passed 
a resolution to authorize a complete inves
tigation of governmental oil-leasing, Vice 
President Coolidge gave a speech in which 
he said:
More and more the people are living 
under the conviction that it is righteous
ness alone which exalteth a nation.
A month after the investigation resolu
tion, Coolidge was saying: * i
'ih piinci'ple1 that the-resources both 
of' men and1 ttvaterials of the (utrtfrV fltust 
be conducted for the public weffope, itftd 
that there is no power which is above the 
authority of the law is absolutely sound. 
The government of the people must always 
remain supreme.
And two weeks after that came the 
much-quoted passage:
We do not need more material develop
ment, we need more spiritual development. 
We do not need more intellectual power, 
we need more moral power. We do not 
need more knowledge, we need more char
acter. We do not need more government, 
we need more culture. We do not need 
more laws, we need more religion. We do 
not need more of the things that are seen, 
we need more of the things that are 
unseen.
Thomas M. Kerr 
,i. /, r, Head. Department of
A dmimtrgtiun <wd, Hawipmw tJk icnce
...and other forms of communication
Amidst the women fighting over the last can of apple sauce at Giant 
Eagle and the National Guard jeep following the gasoline trucks, ties 
Carnegie-Mellon University. Rumor had it that there was only enough coal 
to last the University until last Sunday and that the school was going to 
have to dose. If you are reading this, then it was not true.
One of the biggest problems with dosing this university is how to evict 
the students. WRCT, in its present state, doesn't begin to communicate 
with the whole campus and C-MU would have to dose on a Tuesday in 
order for the TARTAN to be an effective communication means. This 
leaves the following alternatives.
7. The university could have hired an airplane and had it write "GO 
HOME in the clouds. This would have been effective for Architects who 
work under the skylights but would have missed the Computer Scientists 
completely.
2. The university could have ignored the problem and waited until they 
froze us out. Once again this solution has its drawbacks since many dorm 
residents would not notice the change.
3. Food Service could try starving out those students that are on food 
contract and hope that the rest of the campus community would get the 
hint, but here again problems exist in that some students might welcome 
the change.
4. Warner Hall could have sent key administrators like Dean Swank out 
onto the cut with a bell, functioning as town cryers but they would have 
been drowned out by the noise of the Fine Arts roof coming down.
5. Posters could have been printed, but everyone knows that Office 
Services takes two days after the completion date to finish an order.
The ultimate solution had to be and is. We Hire here to stay until the 
independent truckers come and cart us away.
Gary Singer 
Managing Editor
The Emerging Democratic 
Majority: District Twelve
Personal Commentary by Jim Slivka
Will Watergate hinder Republican can
didates this year? Barry Goldwater (RArizona) claims that a poll he privately 
commissioned shows that Watergate will 
cost Republican Congressional candidates 
10% of the vote in this years elections. If 
the special election held in the Twelfth 
District in central Pennsylvania is a baro
meter. a figure of 20% might be more like 
it. This past Tuesday, John Murtha became 
the first Democrat sent to Congress by that 
district tn !ove5 vediS9 Itfa cfeoie dection,
Murtha t8f)bed Republican Harry Fox by a Tix'dc iioiiWB sd&mufivuhohdi mere 2.10 votes,)n M,uL ,oi b3 ltloc2
Only 230 votes? Big deal, you say? Con
sider that just 15 months ago Nixon earned 
the district by 48,000 votes. Consider that 
just 15 months ago John Saylor (Rep.), the 
former Congressman, squashed his Demo
cratic opponent by 68,000 votes. Just fif
teen short months ago.
Fifteen months ago? Whats so signifi
cant about November of 1972? Since that 
date of the landslide of Republican 
Richard Nixon, its been Watergate, 
Agnew, Watergate, Missing Tapes, Water
gate, Cox, Watergate, Rose Marys BooBoo, ad infinitum. But then there is 
Gerald Ford, a refreshing, uncorrupt pol
itician who now has become Nixon de
fender Number One. Ford was the one who 
inadvertently interjected Watergate into 
the Murtha-Fox campaign, which until
with local issues. Ford stated there is no 
problem for Republicans when it comes to 
Watergate and that one should forget about 
it. Henry Jackson (D-Wash.) and Muskie 
(D-Maine) used Fords comments to help 
Murtha on visits there. Was Fords defense 
of Nixon a turning point? Probably, and it 
seems that Ford has become an Agnew 
reincarnated.
Who actually was Foxs opponent? Fox 
had two opponents, Murtha and Nixon. He 
ran against Murtha but ran away from 
Nixon. Never did Fox advertising include 
Republican. It centered on Foxs assoc
iation with the late Congressman, John
"Just onehonest manimplications and all. Murtha 
ran as a conservationist-the twelfth dis
trict is farmland and scenic mountain 
country. These issues were local ones, cen
tral to the districts problems, until Gerald 
Ford.
At the time of this writing. Fox has 
demanded a recount due to the closeness 
of the vote-60.262 to 60,212and the 
process will occur shortly. It the scales tip 
in Foxs favor-but they probably will 
not what can explain the erosion of a 
68,000 Republican vote plurality? Water
gate plus Republican Nixons problems is 
as good a guess as can be made. Are the 
Republicans in trouble? From a 68,000 
vote plurality to negative figures in a dis
trict that usually goes strongly Republican 
as the famous commercial says, Wlien you 
say Watergate, youve said it all.

---------------------------------------------------

0; l 6 ^l!eQ0:6 l 01 *l!e05 l 01 I^S 811 <|iea8 oj 6 <epuow
80I 18Z le,066Z 8 m8I8 3Z leiQ038 I8Z 1*03uit(JPd 39Jj00 95 l*f0aa JU 11 doqs Vta** <jjaqn 19
IS K6*eil!A sil'H osMHUuaj UJM e00>J3JIJM9dj )|IJ POJ
odnasdHVHSsniH Hinos311IA30N0^NM01NMCQ
S3 MOIS Hinacauli inena3iiaM3dAiW Iwi0)3QU 31193 O
pdvDippwvpNvp pud hohvhd ppisvw 
lpopdp * * ppidiDDv SNi-ppvpi
sjoiD|n}|D3
sjoppV *sja*ijM0dAx ui ^si|opads *|*HS-!Jl
gimiiiiiiiimmmiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimmimiiimimiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiimmiiiiiiiiiiiiii^ 
sj04D|n)|D3 asaijt uo po silfi H*!M
I INnCDSia 00 S$*   33Ud 
TillllllllllllllllllllllltlllltlItllllllllllltllllllltllllllllllllllllllllllllltilllllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllllllf11! I II Illltlr^
aaaiNVdvno Aimj
Ajauog 3|qDa6jDi|332j 
3Q pu 3V uo S0+DJ0do
imo
N!
S1IJ
leiupag 3uj^eo|j 
J0MOd-OJ-0SjBJJ  
juejsuoQ 3ijBUJ0jn\/  
aSejuaojaj  leoojdpa^ 
j0|ay\l (j h Jl sjuauodiuoD a^eiu) sn/ujQ 
^uiiuns s|uauinjjsu| sexaj. phott asooi
100 3MV0S 3euionv Mt!M
soi\nnoivo BelBfBid
05 611 9311 "0 3AVS
Q109S3HQ 3HS31Q109S3HG 3HS31
|je
aspaicf-aq isnw noA auuua|R/\ A|/\j 
'asaaqo uRqi ajoLU paau Aplan wa '| ing
'RllOOU pOO a>JlI 'aOR|d jpqi 9ABH 
J31BM pue PU|M 'gjq PUB qiJBg
M!BD ^qoi
Me3
"199^ jnoA 16 |9AOj6 9lu 3.9 i 
'aiaidiuooui lu,| 9A0| jnoA moqi!/\/\ 
'99S ||,noA puB 9|puB3 B iqll 
'A||buj919 sjnoA lub | 
'joop 9L)1 uodn >)DOU>| IBLjl 9JOU| 
'jnoi aqAew jo omi jo 9uo 
'9tu oi 9luoo Aqeq euuy 
'B9|d Alu JB9L) AqBq BUUV 
'9J0LU s,jBqM puB Aqsq euuv 
'ajoqs aqi uo Aqsq euuv
'euuy 
jsDj piDjsnu
\\nidUdxpmi] svM jDuosjdd 4m\ni\diU xp]\ 
peo
'9J0LUJ9A9J0J. '9AO| ALU 9q ||,nO/^ 
'jnoj aBd p puB 'auo 9jb spjOM u9lbybRb 
jjBis B 111 is aj^oA 9LU qiiM mg 
'JBJ OS JB9A S!m 9LUU puOOaS aqi S(ieuj_ 
'9J9L) 9J(noA lOjOJ. UIBBB 90UO SR|_| 
'JB9P Alu 'plS inoAB| 9qi 99S I
'euuv
spuosjad
*ezoo-89
UBO 'Jl!d bpy niAI'3 sainujw
g 'pue|)|eo u| luauujede asnoquMoi u 
luooj ajeqs o* papaau aieiuuiooy 9|euiaj
uBLU|jad Ag|ueis JiAI 'OOt?'ZZP J0 
806'lZhr 9uoqd gi$ -papnpui sgiipn
11V ABJjn/\j JB9U U9I1JB9 UOIlBUOdSUBJ}
pue utddoqs 'aouJiua aiBAud 'Luoojpaq
3jB| 'LUOOJ uiAj I ajB| -|BSOdS!p-SSaOOB 
uaqai; -qieq pue sujooj pujnbs
'L LL6-LsLr 'aiunAuB 
aorug neo 'aiRjRdsap 'Olx xojddR
*>|OB|a isoi AjB!p/|BUjnof :aaVAA3t
*Z0b3-8b ssqjo-j jb9u pooM9jo(/\| 
punoj '6op 3|BUi adA* a!||oo ijeujs
'0017 -zzi?
-10 806-shr MaiBgqi puB uiddoqs 'uoiiei 
-jodsuBJi D||qnd jB9[\j pgpniDui sgiiuun 
puB 'u9L|Dji>) 'LjjBg Aouapi^a uioojpaq 
I uapjeg >8 Aejjn|/\| :jdy ||!H bS
spua>)aaM
9LUU Aub puB 'sABp>)a9M -LUd  jaijB 
0bbQ-Csb llRD 'sjapnq luapnis joj pao ! id 
A||Bpads suB|d a|q|xa|-i jotoo Buimo|B 'qou 
ui S|eujjo-j pus spipuBQ Jsa!SBiuR-j *saus|i/\| 
aouaja^pp e q;|/v\ Aqdejoioijd 6u;ppa/\/\
spv P!*|ssl3
1DHM uo -tud 8 le 
I AjBnjqa-j 'Aepuns uo )SB:jpROjqay 'Lud 
0:g ip Ajpruqa-j 'Aspsaupa/^ 'filAID 
aAii^adsja^ uo uRtujauiuii^ ang Aq paMaiA 
-jauii si aq uaqM 'ajnioj pup juasajd 'isBd 
pjeog S9UIAUDV aqi ssnosfp h;m Ja>p!d ej|
13HM uo 'ujc 00: L L IP I Ajsmqa-j 
'ABpung 'iqijjods Lunqiv uo joj JJJJJ lUj 
miM sl s!lLL LL<nq|B Mau s(UBUBqong Aoy 
sajn^ea^ aq uaq/v\ qooH jaqoeqapn^s u!f
sjuapnis niAID IIe 1 
uado '0e:0l-0C:Z. ^A0 llRH w Asp 
-ijj Aj3A3 Bujouep >j|oj |euoijBUjaju| niAIO
'IIZ9-IPP P3 Ileo asBaid ->|Bajq 
AjBnjqa-) jo| (0|B^ng oj Abm aqi uo) 
A N 'Biuopajj uiojj. pue oi paiue/w apiy
pun_) JJB3H aqj oi o 
11 M spaaaojd uv Aqqo) oqi>)S ui ujuaAa 
aqi u; pus '11B(-| J9>|Bg u Asp aqi uunp 
sa|>fOOD ui||as aq him uoiibziubBjo aojAjag 
s,uauioAA Ml 'fri Ajenjqaj 'Aepsjnqx .m
'0066*1 9
I|B3 JO V-09L llBH J8>|Pg 03 9UJOO UOll 
-BLUJOJ.UI 9J0LU JOJ 'J91U93 d|9|-| J99J 9qi
Aq p9|puBq mou si 'uoujoqB puB gjBopnqo 
uipnpu! 'sgsugdxg qi|Bgq Aaugjgujg 
jo^ 00S$ oi dn subo| ggj} isgjgiuj sgpiAOJd 
qo|q/v\ pmdj qj|vpd pjvmps jmppdjs bML
||bh jaujB/v\ oz uj S||BiaQ >61 
QZ AjBnjqg-i 's|B|jgiBLU Buiuoddns ||B puB 
suo|iBD!|ddB joi guiipsgQ SDiiBLugqiBi/^ puB 
'uugauiug 'saouaps jBjniejsj 'saiiiuBLU 
-nn puB saouaps |Bpos aqi u yssfl 0LI1 
u sdiqsajnioai EdyL iq6uq|nj S-fr6L
ujd 00:6 oi 1116 00;6 W04 SMau JsaiB| aqi 
Buquud 'sjnoq uiuado s/jBjqu aqi Buunp 
saiBjado aoiAjas aj|M aqi 'AjBjqn 6uipua~| 
jB|ndod aqi ^o ujooy sjibjjv iuajjn3 aqi 
U| P91B00-] J91U93 90jn0S9J UO|1BLUJ01UI
b SB AjBjqn gqi giBpdn oi UB|d uinuiiuoo 
B p UBd SB 'puB|>|BQ 'qjnqsui,-! jo AjBjqn 
gigujB3 ui pg||Bisui uggq A|iu909j SBq 9dBi 
ja>P!l SM3U |Buoiieujaiu| sssjj paifuf) y
Lunuoiipnv VISD u! 'wd 00:t7
1B 93B|d 9>)Bi ||im 9jniog| gq_L '61 Ajsnj 
-qa-j uo niAlD Ie ui>|Bgds gq ||im 'Bougiuy 
P SJ9>|JOMpgiS P91|un 'lU9UJlJBd9Q UOll 
-vjsjmjmjpv jovjjmoQ 'jojDpjfQ 'Jsqsjj msg
OOZQ^tZ (919) IIB3 06 L L 
"A'N '>|OOjg Auois ''N 1 Ai|Sj9Aiun 
giBis 'sgougps Adiioj puB usqjf JOj lubjB 
-ojj :idbiuo3 '9|qB|jBAB sdjqsujgiui jgwujns 
pus p i b |BpuBU| -j *iqnos spunoj>(0Bq jggj 
-BO puB 0|LUgpB0B pgjJBA LUOJ^ SISA|eUB gAjl 
-BiquBnb joi gpnijidB ub qi|/v\ S|enp!Aipu| 
lugujgBUBLU. pus uiuuB|d 'SISA|BUB Aoi|od 
oqqnd u sjggjBO |Buo|SS9iojd spjBMOi pgiBA 
-|1olu siueoijddB 9A!1buBblui s>|ggs ujBjojd 
Sl/\j paz;|enp!Aipuj 'aA|iBAOuu| jea/^ oeev
I|bo 's|iigp jaqun^ joj 'a|doad Aueuj os Aq 
paiBpajddB aq p|noM iBqi aouauadxa a|tqM 
-quoAA b aq p|no/v\ i| iBijdsoH s(uBjai9/\ 
jo 'uajp|iq3 pa|ddu3 jo} auio(-| 'fGdson 
s(uajp|iq3 sb qons aoB|d e ib uiujjojjad ui 
paisajaiui aq p|noM oqAA a|doad p dno> 
b pun oi ui 11 im si uoiibziupBjo aojAjas 
s(uaiuoM aqi loalojd aojAjas Aiiunujixioo 
e sv umjeijajug Aoiug no^\ oi
aajj sj uoissiujpv (luaiuiJBdaQ blubjq aqi 
Aq uouonpojd lugjjno aqi qiiM uouounf 
-uoo u|) jdijnf puv odiuo}j s,ajBadsa>|Bqs 
uo ^Bads h im a|dsa||!0 jaiaj jossgpjj ||Bn 
paajg u; 0:U Ie 61 Ajenjqaj 'Aepsan^
aiBp jaqjBa
aqi uo isai aqi a>)Bi oi pasjApB ajB ssBp 
looqos |Boipauj ggi b oi uoissiwp jo^ 
BuiA|ddB aq |||m oqMsiuapnis ApAiioadsaj 
>61 'CI Jgqwgidgs puB pQi n itjdv 
gq |||M sguqpgp uoiiBJiSjgj qoiqM jo^ 
P61 'P Jsqoioo puB 61 'P Ab^m gq ||im 
saiBp isaj_ *||bh a^BOg oil uiooj 'aoyio 
s,ueaa _l|3 aqi ib suBAg S|/\j ujoji a|qB|ibab 
mou ajB (isax uojssjujpv aa||03 |Boipa|/\|) 
iVOIAI P6L JOJ sia>fDBd uo;ieJst6ay
61 'L JsqtusogQ p sb gAiiog^g 
gjB siuguJiuiodde qiog uai/vj p ugQ 
sb Ai||iqisuodsgj AjBLUud siq oi uojiippB 
ui sujBjojd jgujLuns p joiogj|Q iubisissv 
sb paiuiodd uaaq SBq slub!|||/v\ */\ sa|jBq3 
puv saipnis aiBnpBjQ p uBaa sb Ai||iq 
-suodsa^ AjBUitjd sq oi uojijppB u| slubj6 
-ojg jauJLuns p jopajiQ paiuioddB uaaq 
SBq jg|qajis -) ua||v 'sjib^v oiLuapBOv JOj 
luapisajj 3oi/\ pqi p mojivpmpimmioopj mo
'jaiuaQ AiisjaAiufi 
qs|Map-|a||!H qi|J,a !BU,9 Acl pajosuods 
s puB L-OS - L L W04 Apsjnqx qnojqi Ap 
-uo|A| paAjas s qouni 'piajpnag uo 3>j|-A 
'jooii pjg *aaV |aj_ 9p3 qoiMpuBS 
luiensed ioq jo paq paujoo e aAeq auioQ
jaiua3 AijsjaAiufi 
qs|Maf-|g||!H !P,9 pgjosuods
puB agjj. sj 11 *p|9!ig||ag uo 3>thA 'J0|| 
pjg '9tJno~| |g| i ! h aL)l u! 0: 'Aepuo|/\j 
Aj3A3 p|pq s; 6mpmvQ >j|oj pmv j|pvjs|
jgiug3 AiisjgAiufi 
qS!Map-|g|||H qiu,g |Pu,g Aq pgjos 
-uods sj puB 'p|gip||gg uo 3|-a 'jooh 
pj 'AjBjqn I a 11 ! H 9Lll u! 'uoou ib ppq si i| 
ajniBjain p|joaa u! saujaqi qsjMap 'saijgs 
gjniog~| ? qoun| jgiui/v\ umuuuoo gqi ui 
(/gjniBjgin uBUjjaQ u| saujaqi qsiMgp,, uo 
>|Bgds 11 M 'AijSjgAiun gusgnbnQ 'i>|jBLun9N 
inej jossapjj '8L Ajenjqaj *Aepuo|/\| uq
gujoo|gM siuapnis 
11V luaiuujBijiua aAi| puB siuaiuqsajpj gq 
11 im ajgqj_ 'Lud 00;6 Ie 9L AjBnjqg-j 'Apjn 
-leg uo gsnoqggip3 Bgy gg||03 LUBqiBq3 
aqi ib ppq aq 01 asnoqaajpo b josuods ||im 
J31U3Q MjSJSAjun MS!M3p-|3|||H q)U,g leu^g
AjBssaoau aouauadxa o(\j uoiieis 
aqi punoje >joo| r aApq puR 'o|pq Ars 'Aq 
dois asRaij 'sisROSMau joi goiOA jnoA pggu 
aM lAld lOHAA u! uojiisod e iue/\A
sjuauiaounouue
t76 L Z l AjRnjqg-j 'ARpsgnxNVld VI 3Hl-t---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTmvsdpxV ovWumpux LsV Lbr4-Ppgv 5.Carnegie Grant
Guidelines
OCTOBER BREAK COMING
The Presidents office recently released thc~ 
procedures for submitting proposals for the 
fr Carnegie Corporation Grant of $100,000 
per year to improve the quality and pro
ductivity of education at C-MU. The 
following is a reprint of those guidelines 
for proposals.
Who is eligible to submit proposals
Proposals are invited from students, 
staff, faculty, or joint teams. The unit sub
mitting the proposal may be an individual, 
an informal group, a department, or a 
college. Proposals should be submitted in 
writing.
Form of proposal
Proposals should contain an innovative 
idea that will lead to improved quality in 
4 the education provided at CMU, or im
proved productivity in providing education 
of high quality-or, best of all, both.
The applicants should describe in con
crete terms what they propose to do to 
develop the innovation, test its effective
ness, and implement it. The plan of action 
should specify the number (and identity, 
where known) of the persons who will 
^ carry it out, the amount of time each will 
devote to it, and the tasks they will 
perform.
The project application should describe 
how the University will be doing its educa
tional job differently if the project is 
successful, and indicate what the additional
costs would be, if any, for sustaining the 
innovation as a normal part of University 
practices. Careful attention should be given 
to the effects that implementing the 
innovations would have upon motivation 
(of students, staff and faculty) as well as 
upon learning.
Proposals that require modifying 
existing CMU educational rules, regulations 
and practices will be entertained. In such 
cases, ways will be explored for proceeding 
experimentally. Innovative thought should 
not be restricted by established rules of the 
game.
Role of students
Proposals involving students will usually 
also be worthwhile educational actvities for 
them. Therefore, we will request that 
Deans and Department Heads arrange for 
appropriate project-course credit for 
students whose proposals are approved, so 
that the participants may incorporate this 
work in their academic programs. When, 
for any reason, such an arrangement is in
appropriate, the committee will consider 
reimbursing students, at normal student 
rates, for time spent in pursuing approved 
projects.
Chargeable expenses
Generally, any kinds of expenses may 
be charged against an approved project that 
would be chargeable against any educational 
or research proposal. In particular: faculty 
released time during the school year,
Now is the 
time to check
out WRCT.
Wv'll sood Wv codvvuhidg ho oM 
hupdsmissiod.
This mvpds pddvd uvspodsiWilihx.
Thv vxppddvd fpcilihivs of hhv dvws 
dvppuhmvdh hpvv cuvphvd pddihiodpl 
opvdidgs fou dvwscpshvus pdd 
uvpouhvus.
Shop Wx SkiWo uoom 48.
faculty time during the summer, part-time 
help, materials and equipment, and travel.
Committee for funding proposals
Initially the internal committee for re
viewing proposals consists of Richard M. 
Cyert, Allen Newell, and Herbert A. 
Simon. This group will review proposals, 
determine which can be accepted, and allo
cate grant funds.
A steering committee will be created, to 
include the principle investigator of each of 
the approved grants. This steering 
committee will act as an advisory group to 
the grant committee, making recommenda
tions on both policies and proposals.
We hope to be able to reach decisions 
on proposals within a month of their sub
mission. Proposals should be submitted to 
the Presidents office, in triplicate if 
possible. All proposals should be typed.
The significance of the grant
This project is of vital importance for 
the University. The good ideas and their 
implementation on which its success hinges 
must come from the whole University 
community. If one or more projects are 
successful, the project will make a sub
stantial contribution to the' effective 
management of educational innovation in 
other universities as well as ours. We can 
help to demonstrate that privately financed 
education is viable, and we can contribute 
to making important improvements in 
higher education in our society.
Summer 
in London
Professor David Demarest has 
announced the English Departments asso*ciation with a 1974 summer session that 
will be run at the University of London.
The six week session, scheduled for July 
and August, is given under the aegis of The 
Institute for Foreign Study. A student 
would normally take 4 three-week courses 
for an equivalency of two session-long 
American summer courses. The basic fee 
for the program is $1000, which includes 
air fare, tuition and room and board. 
Demarest hopes to accompany the group as 
advisor.
Since I am very much interested in 
topics that concern urban life, Demarest 
says, I will encourage students to take 
courses that will emphasize London itself. 
Im recommending to students a particular 
set of four courses: 1) Background of 
Restoration and 18th Century Literature,
2) British Painting, 3) The Augustans: 
Literature 1660-1790, 4) Architecture in 
England. I hope to play a more direct 
academic advisory role with students who 
take these courses.
Lots of faculty have been interested in 
study-abroad programs, Demarest adds, 
but weve found it hard to get them off 
the ground at C-MU. Im hoping that this 
London 74 venture will be the start of a 
continuing program.
Interested students should contact 
Demarest at the English Department. There 
will be a meeting for prospective applicants 
on Tuesday, February 19 at 7:30 p.m. in 
Baker Hall 135C.
Student 
Senate
by Steven Correll
Student Senate passed a motion last 
week that will, if Vice President for 
Academic Affairs Edward Schatz approves, 
establish a midsemester break next fall by 
cutting two days from Christmas vacation.
Senate also recommended to Schatz the 
establishment of a one day reading period 
preceding the fall semesters final exams 
and the institution of an official half-day 
homecoming holiday.
Schatz said Friday that he had not yet 
received the exact text of the Senate reso
lution, and that he would have to consult 
with the Faculty Senates Educational 
Affairs Council.
But he added, On the basis of what I 
think theyre asking, I dont see any 
problem with doing this.
The two-day midsemester break, which 
would fall on October 21 and 22 next fall, 
was suggested by Dean of Student Affairs 
Earle Swank, who said the idea originally 
came from the Academic Policy 
Committee. Swank also offered the resolu
tion that recommended the homecoming 
holiday for October 26.
The resolutions will, if approved, also 
establish similar vacations in the 1975-6 
school year.
Swank* said that some students, parti
cularly freshmen, have complained of the 
long stretch of unbroken class days 
between labor day and Thanksgiving. He 
noted that a similar two-day vacation al
ready exists in the spring semester.
Passage of the resolutions came only 
after a great deal of parliamentary con
fusion. Senate first voted down the 
October vacation proposal, then defeated a 
motion by Senate Academic Affairs 
Committee Chairman Arthur Fisher that 
would have recommended a two day 
reading period preceding exams. Swanks 
original motion then passed over
whelmingly on a vote to reconsider; 
apparently some Senators had opposed it 
because they feared its passage would hurt 
the chances for a reading period. Finally, 
Senate passed Swanks motion to cut 
Christmas vacation, along with an amend
ment by MDC Senator John Spaulding that 
provided for the reading period.
The vacations were opposed by a group 
of Graduate senators who complained that 
they would be useless to undergraduates 
and a hardship on grad students who would 
rather have a Christmas vacation long 
enough to allow them to travel.
Senator Elaine Rich questioned the use
fulness of short vacations during a gas 
shortage. Senator Lee Cooprider suggested 
that short vacations actually encourage in
structors to assign extra academic work to 
be done during the vacation.
Referring to the homecoming vacation, 
Cooprider warned against calling half
holidays for archaic and useless purposes 
and in response to suggestions that 
holidays relieve academic pressure, said 
that [Senates] direction should not be to 
encourage students to consider school as an 
all-consuming thing ... pressure is not a 
problem that can be solved by such tricks 
and toys as [these vacations].

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6THE TARTANTuesday, February 12, 1974
Strike Worsens Gas Shortage
continued from page 1
the overall situation she said, So far were 
managing pretty well.
Another effect of the strikeworsening 
gasoline shortages-is having an effect on 
Food Service. The catering service, which 
delivers coffee and donuts to various parts 
of the campus, no longer has access to 
campus vehicles. The motor pool truck 
usually delivers for us, but theyve stopped 
that run, said Ms. Cohen. Deliveries are 
now made with hand-pushed carts.
There is also a possibility that Food 
Service will arrange for local housing facil
ities for some of its management and staff 
who live in outlying areas, to avoid the 
necessity for daily long trips to work. If 
necessary, well have to find a place on 
campus or near campus for them, said 
John Eichmuller, an Assistant Director of 
Food Service.
The gasoline shortage has also hit the 
campus bus, which no longer operates on 
C-MUs fuel supply. If the situation gets 
any worse, well have to discontinue it, 
said Ron Rutledge, Chief Officer f Opera
tions. Gasoline for the bus is now pur
chased in Oakland.
Another campus service which relies on 
truck deliveriesreceiving, which handles 
all departmental purchasesis relatively un
affected by the strike as of yet. Were still 
getting pretty regular shipments, said 
Tony Giarnella, a Receiving clerk. He said 
that there had been a slight drop in the
quantity of goods received, but its hard 
to tell whether the slowdown is a result of 
tight departmental budgets or the truckers 
strike.
Security is also relatively free from the 
effects of the strike. They deal directly 
with an Exxon station in Oakland, and 
they keep a reserve supply of gasoline on 
campus.
Howard A. Russell, instructor in 
painting and sculpture, explained that 
C-MU cancelled the classes because of the 
possibility that students would have diffi
culty traveling to the campus on the 
weekend. The students enrolled in the 
music and art programs include 40 regional 
teachers as well as local high school child
ren.
The gas shortage "forced cancellation of 
Saturday classes for more than 240 stu
dents of the C-MU Music Extension pro
gram last week.
Art classes for high school age students 
were also cancelled last Saturday.
One unexpected result of the gas 
shortage has been a rash of emergency calls 
to local hospitals from victims of gasoline 
poisoning.
The sudden increase in gas siphoning 
has produced a similar increase in accidents 
involving swallowing gas. Such accidents 
can result in pneumonia or brain damage, 
particularly if someone tries to help the 
victim by inducing vomiting.
its better to walk to the store than be
driven to a hospital, says Dr. Richard W. 
Moriarty of the Pittsburgh Poison Center, 
who suggests that motorists not try to 
siphon gas.
If someone does accidentally swallow 
gas, Dr. Moriarty warns drivers never to 
try to make him vomit. Instead, motorists 
should call the Pittsburgh Poison Center at 
681-6669 for instructions and the name of 
the nearest hospital equipped to treat 
poisoning cases. The Poison Center will 
then alert the hospital to prepare for the 
patients arrival.
photos by Ed Levine
RESEARCH
Thousands of Topics 
$2.75 per page 
Send for your up-to-date, 160-^age, 
mail order catalog. Enclose $1.00 
to cover postage (delivery time is 
1 to 2 days).
RESEARCH ASSISTANCE, INC. 
11941 WILSHIRE BLVD., SUITE #2 
LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90025 
(213) 477 8474 or 477-5493
Oar research material is sold for 
resurch assistance only.
this weeklmdohho
. . . a multi-sensory elucidation 
of life, love, justice and truth 
through the use of slides, motion 
picture, special lighting effects 
and contemporary folk-rock music. 
A stimulating experience produced 
by Inter-Varsity Christian
Fellowship.
Tmvsdpx b pm 
Wvddvsdpx b pm Thmusdpx Ls dood ouidpx LL pm Sphmudpx b pm
SkiWo Bplluoom Dodphiod: $L.00

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, February 12, 1974Page 7
TARTAN SPOTLIGHTOperations:
Little Money 
A Lot of Work
by Jan Lind berg
Operating with a budget ofapproximately $3,000,000 this year, 
C-MU's Physical Plant is struggling to 
achieve an adequate level of maintenance 
on an aging campus.
We have decided we have to lower the 
amount spent on general custodial services 
because of a shortage of dollars, said 
Harry Rowell, Director of Operations. Ron 
Rutledge, Chief Officer of Operations, 
adds, We feel we have offset, at least in 
part, the lowered expenditures by an in
crease in efficiency.
Physical Plant is responsible for the 
maintenance and renewal of all buildings 
on campus, and all systems within those 
buildings.
photo by Brian Smith 
Hpuux RowvllV Diuvchou of Opvuphiods
The major priorities this year are com
pleting the final phase of campus- wide 
installation of fire alarms, a new filtration 
system for the swimming pool, and re
vamping overhangs and facades at Mellon 
Institute for safety reasons.
There is also a contract being prepared 
for replacing the roofs of the campus' older 
buildings, a job that will be staggered over 
several years. .
The curient renovation of the Fine Arts 
Building is also being supervised by Phy
sical Plant, though it was funded by-grants 
from HEW, the Kresge Foundation, the 
Alumni Association, and other donors. It 
includes the restoration of the theatre and. 
replacement of the roof.
The major campus problem is that of
physical renewal. Many of the buildings 
are 60 to 70 years old. said William 
Banks. Director of Physical Plant. Plumb
ing and electrical systems last about thirty 
years, and most roofing lasts twenty to 
twenty-five. The systems that still remain 
are obsolete and worn out.
There is a backlog of 10 to 20 million 
dollars in ordeinary maintenance from past 
administrations. The present administra
tion has decided to spend one million dol
lars a year to catch up.
Physical Plant and Building Services 
each employ about 65 workers. Robert 
Lichy, Director of Building Services, is in 
charge of custodians, gardeners, and build
ing maintenance men. The Physical Plant, 
headed by Banks, is comprised of painters, 
carpenters, masons, air conditioning main
tenance staff, pipefitters, vehicle mechan
ics, roof repairers, plumbers, general 
laborers and locksmiths. The University 
also employs an electrical engineer and a 
mechanical engineer.
The decision as to which jobs have the 
highest priority is an important one. due to 
the limited funds available. Safety items 
have first priority in maintenance, and 
problems that create new problems'(such 
as leaking roofs) have first priority in re
newal. > 
Custodians constantly check for prob
lem areas, which they report to the four 
Building Service maintenance supervisors. 
Estimators are employed by Physical Plant 
to inspect buildings and systems and to 
establish priorities. Other problems come 
to light through reports to Building Ser
vices in Porter Hall from students, faculty 
and staff.
Requests for services come to the Phy
sical Plant through two major sources: 
Building Services and the departments, 
although most of the work is done through 
Building Services. Building Services acts as 
landlord for all the buildings on campus. It 
makes out a work order to the Physical 
Plant for a specific job. Physical Plant does 
the job and then bills" Building Service 
for man-houfs and materials. In effect, the 
two divisions have the same budget but by
billing Building Service, Physical Plant is 
able to keep an exact account of the 
amount of money spent on each building. 
It also informs Physical Plant of the effic
iency of their workers.
Departments witnin the university can 
request services (such as painting and car
pentry) from the Physical Plant, but if it is 
not a high priority item, the department 
must pay for labor and materials. Many 
low-priority items are contracted to out
side firms. It is a policy of the university 
that all work done on campus must go 
through the Physical Plant. The major rea
son for this is to maintain standardization 
in systems (electricity and plumbing, etc.) 
and prevent uninsured or unqualified per
sons from doing jobs on campus. Ron Rut
ledge, Chief Officer of Operations, com
ments* We dont have a clearly defined 
policy for basic maintenance services. 
Were try.ng to establish what services we 
should supply to occupants of campus 
space.
Due to limited staff, the Physical Plant
photo by John Rose
cannot do all the work needed to maintain 
the university. Larger jobs requiring a bigger staff than we have for highly special
ized work, and jobs for which C-MUs staff 
is unavailable are performed by outside 
contractors. Since both the university staff
and outside contractors have substantial
overheads built into *he salaries of the 
workers, it is difficult to determine if a 
department would save money having 
Physical Plant do the job or employing 
outside contractors. It usually varies with 
each individual job.
The Physical Plant maintains itself fi
nancially by charging for services and gain
ing on overhead. They also charge for the 
engineering of a task (measuring, checking 
power supplies) before an outside con
tractor comes in. Overhead covers such 
varied costs within Operations as the salar
ies of the supervisors and secretaries, 
accounting vacation time and sick leave. It 
also bridges the gap between the hours the 
worker are paid for and the hours they are 
actually on the job. Some time is naturally 
spent walking to and from buildings, 
collecting equipment, and eating lunch. 
For relatively small occasional jobs, assum
ing that only 57% of an employees paid 
time is utilized for actual work, the cost of 
putting a man on the job is 1.8 times his 
hourly salary. To this figure a fifty percent 
overhead charge is added. On this type of 
job, the receiver of the services pays 270% 
of the workers hourly wage. For larger 
jobs or on-going services the costs are es
pecially tailored for each specific job. In 
both cases, the prime purpose is to recover 
all actual and related costs.
The TARTAN questioned Harry Rowell 
as to whether it would be more economical 
to increase the universitys maintenance 
staff so that more jobs could be done by 
the Physical Plant; keeping the overhead 
gains within the university instead of going 
to outside contractors. The overhead is 
not a saving factor, replied Rowell. It 
would cost so much to hire,,train, and pav 
additional staff and supervisors., that we 
wouldnt save money.
Looking to the future of the Physical 
Plant, Rowell says, I see improvements in 
solving the problems of how to allocate 
funds and determine priorities.
A number of situations, though, such as 
unwashed windows and understaffed areas 
will continue due to limited funds.
Havent We Always Been?
by Barbara Lee Witte
Havent We Always Been? will be a 
Weekly column focusing on whats happen
ing for women on and off campus and on 
the women and men who make it happen.
C-MU
It is becoming less unusual for women 
to be in technical or policy determining 
positions, as illustrated by our own C-MU 
enrollment statistics. Still, the women who 
are in the process of, or who achieve this 
status, should be recognized. As more 
women become aware of their activities, 
others will decide to make choices which 
previously seemed unattractive, il not 
unattainable.
In the Fall semester there were 4.379 
full and part time students entrolled at 
C-MU: 1.161 were women. The following 
figures are the percentages of women in 
both undergrad and graduate departments: 
Cl T-69?: IA-6%; FA-41%; MIS-20%;
AMS-107.: H&SS-56%; and SUP A-12%.
Under the guidance*of Helen XDBannon, 
Assistant Dean and Economic Advisor for, 
CIT, Lindu Hulas, a junior in chemical en
gineering. is working on boosting female 
enrollment for CIT. Part of the recruitment 
program involves Linda contacting women 
already accepted into the freshman Fall 
class. She answers questions they have 
about entering a traditionally all male field.
Local Campuses 
PITT
The University of Pittsburgh has a very 
strong Womens Studies Program and 
grants a minor in Womens Studies.
Their third annual Womens Cultural 
Festival was held January 30 through Feb
ruary 2. On Thursday night, January 30, a 
panel of women representing the Pitts
burgh chapter of the National Organiza
tion for Women (NOW), Women Becoming 
magazine. Women and Socialism, 
K.N.O.W., Women and Religion, Pitts
burghs Womens Political Caucus and the 
Pennsylvania For Womens Rights groups
had an open discussion about feminism in 
Pittsburgh. Joanne Evans Gardner, repre
senting K.N.O.W., a clearinghhouse for 
feminist publications, remarked that Pitts
burgh has the largest percentage ot sex 
discrimination complaints in the country 
and the smallest percentage of paid women 
employees. Marianne Novy, representing 
Women and Religion, spoke briefly about 
the passive and submissive virtues which 
the Virgin Mary stands for and the impact 
of this image on feminism.
Other discussions centered around the 
establishment of a University Womens 
Center at Pitt. Difficulties such as personal 
committment, money and time were 
brought up as reasons for failure to in
stitute the center earlier. K.N.O.W. repre
sentative Joanne Gardner and other con
cerned women tried to gain support in the 
audience for a takeover of a building at Pitt 
to force the administration into financing a 
daycare center.
Other featured personalities were 
Florynce Kennedy, founder of N.O.W.,
Sidney Abbot, co-author of Sappho was a 
Right-On Woman, Lolly and Jeanne Hirsch, 
a medical self-help mother-daughter team, 
and Karen Flaherty, a local pantomimist.
Events of unusual interest included the 
Earth Onion Womens Theatre, a sixmember Washington, D.C. group which 
combined improvisation and audience par
ticipation to illuatrate theatre skills. In ad
dition, films and workshops of speical 
interest to women were available.
Women Students: Discussion of Sexism in
the Classroom will be held Tuesday. Feb
ruary 19 at 6:30 p.m. in Room 39. Skibo. 
Ms. Suzanna Downie, faculty member at 
the University of Pittsburgh, will lead the 
discussion. Ms. Downie is also chairperson 
of the Pitt Womens Studies Centers 
committee to establish procedures to deal 
With classroom discrimination. For further 
information contact Susan Christian, C-MU 
Student Activities Office, extension 214.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8-THE TARTAN-Tuesday. February 12, 1974
Food Service Survey
The results of the student contract holders survey conducted by the 
initiators of the boycott were completed last week. 586 people out of 
1,135 contract holders were contacted and returns indicate student dis
satisfaction with present food service policies. According to Kevin Clark 
and Jeff Byers, the most prevalent complaints are: hassles over food 
substitutions, lack of seconds at Skibo, and variety instead of quality. 
Morewoo*d Results254 Surveys 
Hill Dorm Results332 Surveys 
Total586 Contract Holders 
Survey: Student Opinion to Food Service Policy
GOOD
1. How do you rate the overall quality of the food? 35
2. How does the quality of food at Skibo compare to the quality of food 
at Morewood?
3. (upperclassmen) How do you rate the size of the portions this year 
at Skibo compared to last year?
4. Are you willing to give up the third entree at Skibo for unlimited 
seconds (as at Morewood)?
5. If there existed competition to the present Food Service (food store 
or restaurant or cafeteria) would you remain on food contract?
6. At which cafeteria do you eat most frequently? > >
BETTER
74
LARGER
4
YES
282
YES
57
FAIR
319
SAME
265
SAME
65
POOR
229
WORSE
145
SMALLER
163
NO
58
NO
293
NO PREFERENCE
119
NO COMMENT
163
MOREWOOD GARDENS
267
SKIBO
288
WILL YOU SIT DOWN 
AND BE QUIET FOR 
TWENTY MINUTES?
TRANSCENDENTAL MEDITATION
ps Tpmghh Wx Mphpuishi Mphvsh Yogi
 Puovidvs dvvp Rvsh pdd Rvlpxphiod 
* Idcuvpsvs Mvdhpl Alvuhdvss
 Cpd Wv vpsilx Lvpudvd Wx pdx odv
FREE INTRODUCTORY LECTURE
Wednesday, February 13th, 8:00 p.m.
C-M-U, SKIBO HALL, THE WHERRET ROOM
STUDENTS INTERNATIONAL MEDITATION SOCIETY
6700 EDGERTON AVE / (412) 362-8823
New
Appointment
Ms. Ruth Corrigan, head reference 
librarian, has been appointed acting 
Director of Libraries at C-MU. Ms. Corrigan 
will replace former director, Kenneth 
Fagerhaugh who died last week.
Library
Fines
Many students dont realize that by 
paying cash at the time a book is returned 
to the library, if it isnt more than three 
weeks overdue, their fine will be reduced.
Books are lent out for three weeks with 
no renewals. Fine are ten cents a day with 
a maximum of $10.00 per book. Reserve 
books are allowed out from 3:30 p.m. to 
10:00 a.m. the next day. After 10:00 a.m.. 
fines are 25 cents an hour and are never 
reduced. Twenty five dollars is a maximum 
fine for reserved books. When a book is1 
overdue, students receive two notices, one 
following a week later and another one a 
week after that.
At the end of the semester, names of 
delinquent students are sent to the cashier 
and undergrads receive a statement of their 
account. A student may not complete 
registration the next semester until the 
account is setted. At midsemester, grad 
students receive statements of their 
accounts and delinquent names are sent to 
the Cashier. If the account is not settled, 
transcripts of a students record are with
held.
No graduate or undergraduate student 
will receive a diploma until his library 
account has been settled. These regulations 
also apply to delinquencies at the Pitts
burgh Regional Library Center member 
libraries.
If you just feel like talking, Drop in or cal 
Peer Help. 150-A Baker Hall. 621-9900.
lvhhvuscodhd:
Dear Editor:
Knowing that the topic for this weeks 
editorial is lack of student response to the 
Carnegie Grant money, I am submitting my 
.proposal in the form of this letter.
The purpose of the Grant is to encour
age all members, of the C-MU community 
to establish innovative programs to im
prove the quality of education at this 
university.
My proposal is for the administration to 
become honest about the direction and 
goals of C-MU. The budget for this project 
would be very small. It would simply re
quire Public Relations and especially 
Admissions to inform prospective students 
that this is a university interested only in 
quantitative subjects and the quantitative 
aspects of typically liberal arts subjects. 
This would be truly innovative because the 
administration has refused to be open 
about this; it would definitely improve the 
quality of education here because students 
with quantitative interests would come 
here eager to work and study, and students 
not interested would not be here, frustra
ted, bored, upset, and disenchanted with 
higher education, thereby lowering the 
quality of classes, research, and educational 
atmosphere.
The lack of student participation in the 
Carnegie Grant is a prime example of dis
enchantment. The proposal evaluation 
committee consists of President Cyert 
(GSIA), Herb Simon (GSIA, Psychology, 
Computer Science, Board of Trustees), and 
Allen Newell (University Professor, Psy
chology, Computer Science). Personally, I 
could not possibly see any of them sup
porting a humanistic proposal. And the 
supporters of quantitative education are 
already receiving lots of money! So why 
bother to fight? Perhaps I am not being 
fair, after all, I havent tried. But lets take 
a few hypothetical proposals. How about a 
communications or a pre-law major? The 
interest is obvious, but the self-defined 
majors in those areas are more and more 
neglected every year. How aboutinternships and field experience for Psychology 
majors who dont want to go to graduate 
school and are interested in social, clinical, 
and people-oriented psychology? Rosie 
Pinkus created that program. She was 
denied tenure. How about an overall 
evaluation of the goals of H&SS, studying 
the attitudes of present majors? Jim Korn 
started that. He wasnt given tenure either.
If competant professors and courageous 
students cant innovate, then who can? 
Why bother? '
It seems that a very few people are 
controlling this university, and that every 
powerful position on campus is being filled 
with supporters of this quantitative 
approach to education.
That there are directions and goals at 
C-MU cannot be denied. But no one knows 
them until their money is paid and they are 
already here!
I propose the administrators at C-MU 
stop playing games and become honest and 
open to present and prospctive students, 
thereby improving the quality of education 
here.
Marty Lisberger

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-TmvsdpxV February 12, 1974-Page 9
Brignano, Renaldo, Travis
and Tenure
by Kevin Turcotte
Two history instructors and one english 
 instructor are being fired.
Dean Steinberg recommended tenure 
for Professor Russ Brignano of the English 
department and recommended against ten
ure for Professor John Renaldo of the His
tory department. Bruce Travis, also from 
the History department, was denied an 
assistant professorship. All three are being 
dismissed and their contracts will end in 
^ June, 1975.
The various committees that decide 
whether professors should receive tenure 
base their decisions on two thingsthe 
quality of the teaching, and the research of 
the particular professor. He (the pro
fessor) must be competant in both fields 
and excellent in one, explains Dean Stein
berg. The case compiled for each professor 
^ also includes A Phi 0 ratings, letters from 
peers, statements from the candidates, and 
letters from students.
Professor John Renaldo, who has been 
at C-MU since September 1966, was willing 
to discuss the matter. On the first step of
the tenure process, his own department 
recommended him. But then the H&SS 
College Committee and Dean Steinberg 
agreed that Professor Renaldo should not 
;>e tenured. They read a report to Professor 
Renaldo but didnt give him a copy. It 
was grossly inaccurate about publishing 
too many articles in Italian, said Professor 
Renaldo to the TARTAN. Renaldo claims 
Steinbergs letter also made errors in eval
uating his ability as a researcher. The letter 
was redrafted but the decision remained 
the same.
Asked about the schools publish or 
perish rule, Renaldo replied, Its on the 
kind of research that brings in money. In 
1971 I got a Fulbright lecturer grant to the 
University of Perugia in Italy; only two 
were granted in the United States. When I 
got the grant, I went to Italy. No money 
came into the University.
Professor Renaldo had a 4.8 (out of a 
possible 5) in the latest A Phi O ratings, 
indicating that students think he is an excellent teacher. When asked if he thought 
that they were losing out, he replied, If 
the function of the student is to be taught,
BNAI BRITH HILLEL-JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
COFFEEHOUSE
Sphmudpx ovWumpux L6 b p.m.
ph Chphhpm Collvgv Rvp Coffvvhomsv 
Livv Edhvuhpidmvdh
ALL STUDENTS WELCOME
Winter Lunch & Lecture Series
JEWISH THEMES IN WORLD LITERATURE
Speaker: Professor Paul Neumarkt, Duquesne University 
Topic: "Jewish Themes in German Literature 
Location: Hillel Library, 3rd floor, Y-IKC on Bellefied
(Lunch is $1.00 or just come and listen)
IF YOU DON'T LIKE US
JOINUS
(E-fflli jtudmt brunir
Election petitions avaihble Feb 18AT SKIBO INFORMATION DESK
Election petitions DUE March 22 
Election days 4-10 and 4-11
HOW AND WHERE LATER
I dont think its in their best interest.  
Professor Russ Brigitano, who was re
commended by Dean Steinberg, said I. 
havent been isolated; everyone else went 
through the same system. He added. Im 
really mystified why I didnt get tenure. 1 
feel as though I have fulfilled all of the 
qualifications for fenure.
Without the slightest touch of irony 
and with firm conviction, I believe that if 
C-MU wants to build its reputation from 
its existing strengths that the University 
has lost one of its good bets. Me, he said.
When asked about his ties with the uni
versity, Professor Brignano replied, I have 
gone through eight years of loving students 
and on the whole my colleagues in Human
ities have been a pleasure to be associated 
with. I feel as if I have been a strong 
contributing force in the university. It has 
been a center for my life.
The reasons for Professor Brignanos dis
missal are still unclear. He was recommend
ed by Dean Steinberg but by the time his 
case had reached the top, he had been 
rejected for tenure. Professor Brignano, 
however, did say The university still has a 
lot of loyalty and dedication to tap from 
me.
Vice-President Edward Schatz said, No 
mere vote gets or loses tenure. In the pro
cess a number of people are found untenurable. I think its safe to say the people who 
got tenure met the requirements of ex
cellence in one field and competence in the 
other.
They never would have been hired here 
if they werent outstanding people, said 
President Cyert. He also elaborated on the 
process of tenure. It is very difficult to 
measure how great a person is. None of us 
have come up with an ideal system. The 
tact that they didn't get tenure doesnt 
mean that they arent good people.
President Cyert also commented, We 
expect them to become outstanding people 
at other schools.
Who_cpuvs?
Wrho cares about smoggy skies 
About empty and polluted lakes, 
cans and trash littering our 
countryside. About plants and 
trees dying in our forests.
And animals too. Who cares? 
Woodsy Owl, the Nations new 
battler for a clean environment 
cares. And so should you.
Join Woodsy in the fight against 
pollution. |
IlHII WmxLsV ( )v*fs ilhjhl msmpsi
Lpuuv DvdWmugV cpudivpl chpiumpd.
Spring 
Carnival
by Tom Kendig
The theme for this years Spring Car
nival is The Great Movies and Carnival 
Chairman Larry Denburg and his cohorts 
are already at work organizing the activ
ities.
Ideas for contests include a frisbee tour
nament, the faculty egg toss, the plank 
joust (which will hopefully be open to any
one who wants to participate), a bicycle 
rally, a kite flying contest, and intramural 
sports.
For th third year, an arts and crafts 
festival will be held in front of Skibo where 
anyone on the campus can display his 
wares. It will be open to the local com
munity as well as to the campus.
Its possible that a water balloon fight 
will be held, and Boom Boom ZambeDi will 
put on his most incredible display of fire
works.
The Activities Board is also preparing 
some special events. The movie, The Last 
Picture Show, parallels the theme of the 
carnival. And AB is also trying to schedule 
a major concert during this time but are at 
present having problems finding a group. 
They have investigated getting such groups 
as Genesis and Spooky Tooth, but the 
groups are either too expensive or unavail
able.
The Mens Dormitory Council will 
present its traditional doggie roast picnic 
lunch. MDC will also be showing the movie 
Dr. Zhivago.
Plans for midway and buggy are under
way, beginning with legal preparations. 
Two major permits are required, one for 
building midway and the other (a parade 
permit) for the buggy races. A number of 
minor permits are also required, and inter
nal safety rules must be established.
All this is financed by a $4,000 budget, 
not including the money that individual 
participants (like the frats and the dorms) 
spend on their own contributions. Much of 
the money comes from Student Senate, 
with other revenue coming from a S50 fee 
for Midway entrants, a S25 fee for buggy 
entrants, ticket sales for rides, and fines for 
organizations that do not comply with 
their required duties of guarding the Mid
way and cleaning up after carnival ends.
Denburg is anxious for any new ideas 
and welcomes volunteers. Plenty of jobs 
are available, and the more people who 
work on carnival, he says, the bigger suc
cess carnival can be.

---------------------------------------------------

age 10-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 12, 1974
Student Senate
(A Students Guide Through Committee Lane)
If anything has been bothering you theres no reason to keep sitting on it. The TART AN, in cooperation 
with Tanya Almond, Student Government President, has outlined the following grievance directory.
Student CommitteesGripe
Academic Affairs ........................ course overloads, recognition of new cour
ses, library services, and anything to do 
with academics of C-MU.
Finance ...........................................which student organizations get what
money and how to get it.
General Campus.............................(if you dont see your problem anywhere
else go here) Ex. check cashing fee, health 
fund.
Information................................... publicity for Senate elections, polling of
student opinion.
Rules ...............................................how to get recognized as a campus organ
ization and gain access to campus facilities.
(in addition the Faculty Senate has several ad hoc committees) 
Other Committees Gripe
Other CommitteesGripe
Faculty Senate............................... faculty problems
a) student affairs
b) Educational Policy i.e. tenure
c) Student Advisory Committee (SAC)
College Councils .....................................exceptions to college-wide rules
H&SS MIS 
CIT FA
Campus Design Committee....................i.e. bus shelters, bike racks, ramps
Public Occasion Co-ordinating...............j e commencement, homecoming, inaugCommittee uration, parents day
Graduate Affairs Co-ordinating........... problems for all graduate students
Committee
Campus Safety Committee,.....................problems dealing with thefts, assaults, dan
gerous and poor facilities, etc.
Parking Committee................................ complaints, problems with parking
Disciplinary Committee........................catch allall deans, student represent
atives and Dean Swank take care of prob
lems that do not fall under other com
mittees, i.e., expulsion, drugs.
Note: Should you have any difficulty locating 
any committee member, contact-Tanya, Dean 
Swank or Frank Sacco.
Trustee Committees
TERADYNE MAKES SENSE
if you're an ELECTRONICS ENGINEER who
. . . lovvs vdgidvvuidg fou ihs owd spkv; is p dphmupl-Woud 
hidkvuvuV jmsh ps comfouhpWlv wihh p soldvuidg iuod ps wihh p slidv 
umlv.
. . . wpdhs hhv fuvvdom ho follow xomu idhvuvshs ps hhvx 
dvvvlopwhvhhvu hhvx lvpd ho ciucmih dvsigdV hvsh vdgidvvuidgV 
fivld vdgidvvuidgV ppplicphiods vdgidvvuidg ou sofhwpuv dvvvlop
mvdh.
. . . wpdhs ho hupdslphv xomu hvchdicpl kdowlvdgv idho pupchicplV 
vcodomicpl solmhiods ho iddmshuipl puoWlvms.
. . . wpdhs ho joid p comppdx hhph is Wig vdomgh ho offvu pd 
vdgidvvu hhv uvsomucvs hv dvvds Wmh smpll vdomgh so hhph hv 
cpd mpkv himsvlf hvpud.
. . . pppuvciphvs hhv codvvdivdcv of woukidg id p dowdhowd 
locphiodV smuuomddvd Wx good hhvphuvV uvshpmupdhs pdd shouvs.
pppuvciphvs p fpsh-guowidg comppdx hhph dvpvdds od 
cpppWlv pvoplv ho kvvp ih guowidg.
If all this MAKES SENSE to you, see our representative on 
campus on:
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1974
'Ohhpwp
L83 Essvx ShuvvhV BoshodV Mpss. 0sLLL
Ad vqmpl oppouhmdihx vmploxvu M o
(representatives from senate are present 
during the meetings of the following 
committees. These should be used when all 
other channels have been exhausted; its 
like going to the board of directors of 
General Motors to get your carburator 
fixed.)
Buildings & Grounds 
takes care of the physical plant of C-MU
Development & Planning 
fund raising and allocation of funds
Educational Affairs 
deals with tenure and educational policies
Budget & Finance 
distribution of money over the entire universitys.
Student Affairs 
settle anything involving students

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-TmvsdpxV ovWumpux 12, 1974-Page II
Tuesday Forum with Cyert
continued from page 1
rather than tile because some estimates tor 
a tilt replacement ran as high as $l million.
Cvert also talked for seme time on staff 
problems. I dont think a union is 
necessary, ne said, reterring to the UAW 
organization campaign. A third parly 
would complicate communication, he ex
plained.
He promised that action began last 
summer to re-examine salary and wage 
rates, and that he hopes to be able to 
announce a decent pension plan soon. 
He admitted such a plan is lacking at
present.
After these comments, Cyert threw the 
meeting open to questions from the 50 or 
so students, faculty and staff members in 
th^ udience.
Most of the questions dealt with 
academics and the Universitys attitude 
toward undergraduate education.
Cyert spoke at length concerning the 
division of a professors time between 
teaching and research, stating his personal 
opinion that, out of a minimum of 60 
hours a week, most professors will spend
20 to 30 on the total educational proSummer Jobs Available
Tan-Tar-A Resort & Golf Club
on the Lake of the Ozarks
will conduct 
personal interviews 
for summer help 
on Friday, Feb. T5th
positions available: 
food & beverage 
social department 
housekeeping 
grounds workers
For literature stop by the Placement office
cess. He suggested devoting 6 hours to 
class time, 12 hours for pre-class pre
paration, and being available an additional 
10-12 hours for discussions with students. 
The remaining 30 hours would apparently 
be spent on research and administration.
I hope that we do not have to be just 
an undergraduate teaching institution, he 
said, but noted that the traditional ten
dency to treat undergraduates with 
scorn . . . has to be put in the garbage can.
One of his hopes, he said, is to develop a 
unique concept of education here at C-MU: 
General Education. Such a program 
would emphasize courses where we do 
things--actually getting involved in an 
activity instead of just discussing it in a 
classroom. One of the examples he cited 
was involving an p^neering Siudent in 
painting class.
And referring to a TARTAN 
commentary, Cyert denied that C-MU will 
charge for overloads next year. [We re
stricted overloads becauseJ it was clear in 
looking at records that a lot of people were 
overloading and getting poor grades as a 
result, he said.
Other questions from the audience 
dealt with student theft, and the status of 
women.
A students question about theft of 
clocks and lab equipment from Science 
Hall brought a philosophical answer. When 
the questioner suggested that some 
students felt ripped off by the 
University, Cyert conceded that the ad
ministration needed to work more at
"Whph I dod'h likv ho svv is p cxdicpl 
phhihmdv.
reducing such feelings. He said he was open 
to ways to make people care.
What I dont like to see is a cynical 
attitude, he said.
Another questioner raised the subject of 
C-MUs treatment of women. Cyert ex
plained that two women were in the group 
of 21 faculty members up for tenure or 
promotion to full professorship this year. 
Both got it. Cyer,t noted that since his 
administration began women have been 
appointed to managerial positions in Food 
Service and the Bookstore. And the likeli
hood is high that there will be a woman 
librarian appointed to Fill the position left 
vacant by the recent death of Kenneth 
Fagerhaugh, Director of Libraries.

---------------------------------------------------

Ppgv 12-THE TARTAN-TmvsdpxV ovWumpux 12, 1974
Tmihiod Rvmissiod Puogupm Rvvisvd
by Sharon Curcio
The recently revised tuition remission 
program for the 1973-74 academic year 
redefines the eligibility of faculty and staff 
as well as their spouses and children who 
wish to take courses at C-MU.
Faculty and research associates still en
joy complete tuition remission for a maxi
mum of 21 units per semester. Full-time 
faculty, assistant professors, and research 
staff with a rank equivalent to an assistant 
professor or higher may take as many 
courses as they desire with complete re
mission. Staff department heads, the em
ployees who work under them, and the 
university officers receive remission for no 
more than 12 units per semester. Staff 
members who have worked for the univer
sity before 1971 are entitled to a remission 
equaling S750 per year for a full load or 
S375 per semester. Staff who have joined 
the university since 1971 receive a re
mission of only 30%, and must pay 
SI53.20 if they want to take a nine unit 
course costing $234.00; the university 
only assumes a remission of $70.20. Files 
in the Personnel Office on the third floor 
of Warner Hall record when each staff 
member begins to work for the university 
and the person having access to this infor
mation. Mr. James Booton, clears each 
applicants remission form to determine 
how much of the rebate he receives.
If a staff member wants to take a course 
and must miss some work hours to do so, 
he is required to make them up either
before or after work. He has to arrange 
an adjusted time schedule with his depart
ment head, whose signature he needs to 
register for the course. Although some of 
the staff members questioned feel that the 
professors welcome them to take courses, 
department heads fear time conflicts and 
some are very reluctant to release muchneeded office help during the busy after
noon periods when most classes are 
scheduled. Others regret not being able to 
take classes when they would like to, but 
admitted that they knew C-MU offered few 
evening courses when they began working 
for the university, and recognize their 
office situation. Some of the receptionists 
and secretaries are involved in important 
message-taking and could not leave for day
time classes, nor make up that time in 
off-peak hours. .
Carol Johnson, one of the staff secre
taries in the Personnel Office, has taken 
one 12 unit graduate course each semester, 
three courses per year, to complete the 96 
unit Masters Program of the English depart
ment in two and one-half years. Carol said 
she had no difficulty in arranging alternate 
office hours with her boss and verified that 
course taking or even auditing becomes as 
easy or difficult as the department bosss 
temperment.
Ms. Harper, Booton's secretary in the 
Personnel Office, mentioned that the only 
exception to the 12 unit restriction placed 
upon staff employees was for those staff 
members taking more than 12 units before 
the restriction (and quite a few were taking
18 or 21 units) allowing them to continue 
to carry an oveiload. Ms. Harper felt that 
the university had always respected such 
grandfather clauses and had not revoked 
the 22 day vacation she received when she 
signed a contract to work for the university 
before they shortened the vacation of the 
employees to a 15 day vacation based on a 
new standard, three working weeks.
Other tuition -remission changes include: 
granting a rebate to the married children of 
all university employees, if the employee 
can prove his child is still a dependent as 
certified by an IRS form; staff spouses may 
receive one-half remission for under
graduate courses and the same reduction 
for graduate course tuition course changes 
if the spouse is a graduate degree candi
date. The Assistant to the President, 
newly-appointed to manage the tuition re
mission of the children of the staff or 
faculty, has stipulated that if a student 
attends another institution with a C-MU 
Faculty Childrens Scholarship, and decides 
to transfer to C-MU, his eligibility for re
mission will be reduced accordingly. The 
eligibility of the children of deceased or 
retired employees for tuition remission will 
be judged according to the merits of the 
request; otherwise, the remission benefits 
end when that parent leaves the service of 
the university. The child of a faculty or 
research staff member who has worked for 
the university only since 1971 will not be 
given full remission, but limited to a 
scholarship of $1,500 per academic year. 
No remission will be granted to the child
ren of employees for graduate courses, 
part-time faculty or research staff, visiting 
appointees, full-time appointees engaged 
on a temporary basis, or their dependents. 
There is also no remission for private les
sons for Fine Arts courses.
The remission plan for the higher educa
tion of the children of the staff members is 
complete for those who have worked for 
the university before 1971; the children of 
employees hired after that date receive a 
tuition relief of $1,500 per academic year.
THE RETURN OF
UNDER NEW OWNERSHIP BY
MR. MOTHER, JEFF JOHNS,
A CONCERNED PARENT
Bpck ho omu ouigidpl codcvph: 
 Domgh Mpdv ouvsh Dpilx 
od hhv puvmisvs - No shvlls
 CLEANLINESS* 
QUALITY INGREDIENTS 
 OWNER OPERATED
WE DELIVER
CENTRE AT CRAIG 6sL-6r55
id codcvuh
b. b. king
plsospecial guest starjames cotton blues band
Sunday, february 17, 1974 
syria mosque, 8pm
tickets $2.50, available at pitt ticket office,
skibo information desk
produced by pitt s.g, programming committee

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-TmvsdpxV ovWumpux 12, 1974-Page 13
Lost in the Stars is a tale of pride and 
prejudice in Apartheid, South Africa. 
Stephen Kumalo, a much respected black 
preacher, sojurns from his lush-green, 
native land of Ndotsheni to the city of 
Johannesburg, in quest of his son, 
Absalom. He soon discovers that Absalom 
has shacked up (literally) with a black 
version of the classic dizzy blonde. The 
simple wench, who seems addicted to some 
tropical form of Delirium Tremens, 
happens to be pregnant. Meanwhile, 
desperation has driven Absalom to join two 
other shiftless characters in their scheme to 
rob the house of one of the towns more 
elite whites. The attempted breaking and 
entering goes amiss when the men are 
suddenly caught in the act by the master of 
the house. Absalom, confused and shaken, 
impulsively shoots the man (who just 
happens to be one of the liberal whities 
who knows Stephen Kumalo). All action, 
hereon, centers on Absaloms conviction to 
speak the truth, even if it means confessing 
to a crime punishable by death.
This musical 'treatment by Kurt Weill 
and Maxwell Anderson of Alan Patons 
novel, Cry the Beloved Country, was a 
smash-hit on Broadway during the 
1949-1950 -season. Now, after being 
adapted to the screen by Alfred Hayes, the 
characters are more often than not carica
tures, cardboard mouthpieces for the 
storys urgent plea for brotherhood and 
supremacy of truth. The shows admirable 
theme, complemented by a rich and 
resonant score, has been reduced, by in
sensitive direction and careless acting, to a 
morality melodrama.
Brock Peters has a strength and dignity 
appropriate to Stephen Kumalo, but there
is something remote about his perfor
mance; all his inner fire seems too wellrehearsed to touch us profoundly.
As Irina, the girl who bears no morals, a 
heart of gold, and Absaloms baby, Melba 
Moore is simply an embarrassment. This 
sparkling musical-comedy actress seems to 
have been foresaken by director Daniel 
Mann; unfortunately, all the exaggerated 
mannerisms of a performer still untrained 
in the film art surface and flounder, and 
are keenly caught by Manns camera. She 
becomes a relentless spasm of weeping and 
whining, her voice uncomfortable in the 
operatic heights of Weills score. The mar
velous British actor, Paul Rogers, looking 
fine and tan, is wasted in a rather cliched 
bit as the white man who attempts to over
come his long-impressed bigotry.
Only Clifton Davis, as the doomed 
Absalom, manages to grow and develop 
within his role. In the tense courtroom 
scene, he grips our sympathies with his 
steadfast, noble confession. But it comes 
too late, after much sloppy and awkward 
screen work by all involved. What was 
designed to be a tear-jerker turns out 
merely jerky. The conglomeration of 
endeavored South African accents (Melba 
Moores is the most peculiarly toned), is 
unaccountably vexing--like the rest of the 
picture, there is no unification of spirit, no 
apparent cohesive coaching whatsoever.
This is the first time in my years of 
movie-going that wild running, jumping, 
and solemn pacing from one end of the 
screen to the other have been labeled 
choreography. Responsible for this 
erratic, unbalanced movement is Paula 
Kelly, who also plays a small role in the 
film, as moll to one of Absaloms partnersin-crime. Heedless of the essential needs of 
the production, she has opted for a 
ridiculous realism in place of what should 
have been spectacularly stylized dance.
Ely Landaus American Film Theatre is 
a splendid idea which is somehow getting 
lost in the translation to reality. Lost in the
Stars is a majestic theatre piece which 
requires a soaring sense of scope and 
character empathy. The revamped book 
still seems arch though, even laughably 
dated. Our current cinematic sophisti
cation, refined with time, makes a mockery 
of the films obvious, sentimental examina
tion of racial strife.
No one deserves as much credit for the 
shape of Lost in the Stars as director 
Daniel Mann. He will be lost in that 
oblivion of talentless directors after this 
undistinguished effort. There is a staginess 
about the film which renders it barren of 
any subtlety. The action seems as human 
and credible as a television situation 
comedy. And when the direction is not 
falsely theatrical, its messy. Mann handles 
crowd scenes as if he were allergic to them. 
What should have been the films sustenance--a kind of heady lyricism--is 
replaced by a frantic, meagre diet of poor 
shots and worse organization.
The film may stake its redemption 
solely on the spiralling intense music and 
lyrics by Kurt Weill and Maxwell 
Anderson. They breathe a passionate fire 
and embody the cries of an entire nation of 
oppressed people. Though Weill and 
Anderson occasionally slip into a rather 
stereotyped pattern followed by other 
Broadway shows for blacks, (Green 
Pastures, Porgy and Bess), that is, having 
the characters recite little parables about 
God playing around with men and stars, 
their music and lyrics are nevertheless 
eloquent, boundless, and powerful enough 
to sustain this otherwise lackluster film.
Faux Pas of the Stars.Re: My Twelve Best 
Films review of last week-okay, who 
caught the mistake? You score one 
hundred points on the ardent movie-buff 
scale if you realized that it was Jeanne 
Moreau, and not Simone Signoret, who 
played the free-spirited Catherine in Jules 
and Jim. Sorry, Jeanne.)
Tpj Mphpl Rvshpmupdh
5L5L Clpiuhod Blvd.V Romhv 5L Somhh
 NOW OPEN 
Distinctive Indian Cuisine 
Buffet every Fri.: $4.75 per Person 
oOR RESERVATIONS: CALL 88L-b500 
WEDNESDAYLadies Dinner, Vi Price
hhv Wig Wihv
Biq Bites Best Bites
by Stacey Robin Kimbell
Because 1 ate in this week rather than 
out, here are three recipes that can all be 
eaten at the same meal.
Ron-o-Roomate Cookies
These are called roommate cookies cause I 
made them up for my roommate who 
doesnt like chocolate.
cup brown sugar 
V2 cup raw sugar 
3 tsp vanilla extract2 eggs
ll/2 cups wheat flour 
I cup white flour 
% cup Grape-Nuts 1 tsp. baking soda 1 tsp. salt 
% tsp. cinnamon 6 oz. pkg. butterscotch chips 
plenty of raisins
Make sure the butter is soft or use Crisco 
cause its cheaper. Cream the sugar with 
the butter and when you are lumpless, add 
the vanilla. Its important to be lumpless 
with these cookies because there are lumps 
in the other ingredients that cant be taken 
out. Beat the eggs and dump them in and 
mix up everything real well before you 
start putting in the dry ingredients. Add 
the flour, then the Grape-Nuts. If you 
havent any Grape-Nuts use any wheaty 
cold cereal. Add the baking soda and salt. 
The cinnamon is optional. Add chips and 
raisins. Mix it all together for a minute. 
Bake in a greased pan with the oven at 350 
degrees for 8 minutes or until they look 
done. When you take them out of the pan 
they will be soft but they get hard and 
crunchy when cooled.
Stuffed Tomatoes with Shrimp
Two of these can serve as dinner if youre 
on a tight budget.
As many tomatoes as you have people1 cup shrimp
% cup chopped celery
3 T catsup
I T vinegar
Grated onion
Mayonnaises,
Put up a pot of boiling water and dump in 
the celery and the shrimp with a pinch of 
salt. The celery is done when its soft and 
by that time the shrimp has had enough 
too. Let it cool for ten minutes and chop 
the shrimp into small pieces. Combine the 
shrimp, 'celery, catsup, vinegar and onion. 
Put in enough mayonaisse to hold the mix
ture together. Stuff the tomatoes with the 
mixture and serve with a dressing.
Vegetable Pancakes
If you need to pour things on your pan
cakes, use soy or worchestershire sauce for 
these.
1 large carrot 
3 celery' stalks 
% cup mushrooms 
some shredded cabbage 1 zucchini1 green pepper2 cups whole wheat and/or white flour1 egg
T brown sugar or honey 
tsp. salt1 can evaporated milk 
enough water to make a batter
Chop, slice, mince or dice the vegetables. 
Mix together the other ingredients to form 
a batter. Mix the vegetables into the batter 
and fry in a greased skillet. You can eat 
this cold if you like. Two of them will 
probably quench your hunger. (A Full 
Belly Makes A Happy Heart)
In Johannesburg. South Africa, a wo
man accused her husband of having an 
affair with her best friend. The other 
woman did not deny the affair, only that 
she was the best friend.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 12, 1974
Lpsh xvpu mouv Wicxclvs wvuv sold id hhv U.S. hhpd cpus. This xvpu xom cpd opvd hhv 
Wvsh Wikv shouv id hhv PihhsWmugh puvp.
Big Whvvl Bikvs fupdchisvs svll sL diffvuvdh Wupdds 
of L0 spvvds idclmdidg hhv complvhv lidvs of omjiV 
PvmgvohV AhplpV NishikiV LpmWvuhV oplcod pdd Gihpdv. 
Omu splvs mix vmphpsizvs high qmplihx gvdvupl-pmu
posv WikvsV Wmh pll cxclidg dvvds puv mvh. Wv will 
pssish xom id sihv vvplmphiod pdd idhvuiou-vxhvuiou 
shouv dvsigd pdd omu foumph fou pdvvuhisidg pdd puo
mohiod will gvh xom off hhv guomdd. Puogupm id
clmdvs hupididg id puovvd opvuphiodpl hvchdiqmvs 
id mpdpgvmvdh pdd Wikv mvchpdics. Gmpupdhvvd 
Wmx-Wpck of shock. Cpsh uvqmiuvmvdh.
oou mouv idfoumphiod wuihv:
sessions (SI00.00 per 8 wks.) and by the 
modest admission charge (S1.00-S2.00) k> 
the performances that culminate the period 
of study. PLT eventually hopes to receive 
some sort of governmental subsidization, at 
which point they could give free perfor
mances and lower the cost of the sessions. 
The group operates out of a church on the 
corner of 5th and Craft, just up the street 
from the ex-Playhouse. and as we ap
proached the old building I began to realize 
that what I was about to see would be in 
no way like the conventional circus I so 
love.
As we entered the building we were 
greeted by the obnoxious sounds of 
scratchy circus records being played on a 
cheap record player. After a fairly long 
wait (it had taken less time than 1 had 
expected to get there) we filed in and took 
our seats. We were welcomed by a member 
of the PLT and handed over to Mr. Charles 
Hauck, our emcee for the evening, who 
then gave us his version of the old stand-up 
comic gambit. -To his credit Mr. Hauck did 
come up with a number of passable jokes 
(I just saw The Exorcist this after
noon ... 1 used to like bedroom
scenes . . . come to think of it I used to like 
1 2 year old girls.) and when he had finally 
run through his repetoire, amid constant 
reminders that we had  . . . only paid a 
dollar ... the lights came up on the Fly
ing Zookeenie Brothers Daredevil Circus.
The Zookeenie Bros! do parodies of the 
cliche acts of a circus* performance. They 
stretch the routines of comedians Albert. 
Brooks and Art Metrano from 10 min., 
into an hour and a half. The show opened 
with the entire ensemble cavorting around 
onstage in long underwear doing, amid 
much shouting and gesticulation, nothing. 
There were several acrobatic acts using an
invisible teeterboard; whenever something 
was done once it was done again five more 
times with insignificant variations. The solo 
acts that followed the opening were almost 
as bad. with only one or two funny bits 
interrupting an otherwise boring evening. 
There was a dancer who fell down and was 
all the more successful for only doing it 
twice; El Mind-O a feeble minded mindreader who read a couple of pretty feeble 
minds; El Escape-O a bemused escape 
artist who had trouble getting out of his 
cape: and a succession of other greats in 
the performing field. The whole mess was 
topped off by a finale that was about as 
interesting as a hundred page novel with 
the same words on every page.
The Zookeenie Brothers act could use a 
good deal of pruning. Lucky are those who 
were unable to attend the performance. I 
think the thing that most upset me about 
the whole evening was not really the qual
ity of the performance but rather the re
ception by the audience. If you had 
recorded the audience you would have a 
perfect laugh-track for Ozzies Girls. If 
this is what Pittsburgh thinks is funny Im 
glad I dont live here year-round and that 
my trips off the campus are as few as they 
are.
I left the theatre very depressed which is 
strange as I had just come from a funny 
performance and once again closed my 
eyes on a day without having done any 
work. The next day, determined to wash 
from my mouth the bad taste the Zoo
keenie Bros, had left, 1 once more forsook 
my work and headed for the Wherrett 
Room jn good old Skibo hall to watch 
Stagecoach. Week after week it never 
ceases to amaze me how I can consistently 
find such good entertainment right here on 
our campus. It will be a while before I 
venture back out into the wilds of Pitts
burghs entertainment jungle; until that 
time I shall be very content just to watch 
Citi/o'1 Kane
photos by Dreyer
babe of 37 years. Among the list of Euro
pean orchestras that have performed under 
his baton are The London Philharmonic. 
The Moscow Philharmonic. The Concertgebouw of Amsterdam and the national 
orchestras of Hungary and Poland. He 
made his American debut with the 
Philadelphia Orchestra in 1971 and was 
very well received; and after last Fridays 
concert I can tell you why. The man is a 
master of his craft, perfectly able to draw 
varied and beautiful sounds from his en
semble. He is an energetic conductor al
ways in control of all the musicians on 
stage, so much so that at times it is possible 
to forget that there is more than one per
former. He seemed equally comfortable 
with all the pieces on his varied program.
The program was varied and wellrounded. It ranged from the lyric beauty of 
Fantasia on a Theme by Thomas Tallis/ 
by Vaughn Williams, to the mildly humor
ous Saint-Sans Concerto No. 2 in G miying Zookenie Brothers Circus. The show 
was being sponsored by the Pittsburgh Lab
oratory Theatre and on the way there Su
san Klein, who was also going to the circus, 
filled me in on what the PLT was. It seems 
that there is an organization in town dedi
cated to furthering interest in the theatre. 
Their approach is quite simple, and it could 
quite well be this simplicity that has saved 
them from going the route of the Pitts
burgh Playhouse. The PLT believes that 
theatre is a part of a scientific methodolo
gy and it is on that ground that it ap
proaches its teaching. Working from this 
theatrical hypothesis they move into exper
imentation and finally into a test of their 
findings, the test being the performance 
situation. The laboratories are eight weeks 
long and concentrate on a particular aspect 
of the theatre at large. The subject matter 
of these labs has ranged from Stanislavskis 
Method to Bertolt Brecht. The venture is 
being supported by the entrance fee tor the
1034 33rd street,n.w. 
Washington,d.c. 
(202)337-0254
AT THE CIRCU/
"by Kevin C. Dreyer
"What are you doing this Friday ? You 
"What are you doing this Friday? You 
better say nothing. 
Nothing; 
"Good, you 're going to the symphony. "
Thats how my weekend On The Town 
began, it was to end with John Wayne 
riding off into the sunset, but Im getting 
ahead of myself here. The voice on die 
phone had been that of a friend of mine at 
Pitt. This friend is a viola major which, 
although it may seem trivial now. is 
important in a way. That fact is well 
known by her friends at Pitt, where it is 
also known that her teacher is principal 
violist for the symphony. So when free 
tickets materialize on the campus they eventually make it to her door. This was the 
case last Thursday.
The symphony is in its 47th season and 
is considered (by those who consider such 
tilings)to be one of the top in the country; 
by my mind it seems well deserving of this 
reputation. Dr. William Steinberg, music 
director and conductor of the symphony 
for the past 22 seasons, was not on hand 
last Friday. In his place was an exciting 
young conductor named Roberto Benzi. a
nor for piano and orchestra, to the liauntinglv beautiful Hindemith symphony 
Mathis der Maler."
Also on hand to further our enjoyment 
of the evening was an equally exciting and 
competent French pianist Jean-Bernard 
Pommier. The most exciting moments 
came in the second part of the first half of 
the program when the two young musi
cians joined together in an energetic rendi
tion of the Saint-Sans concerto. In this 
age of waning interest in the solo perfor
mer. it was truly a joy to hear such fine 
musicianship.
There is a difference. I discovered, in 
merely going to the symphony and in going 
with musicians. The difference can be good 
(how much more enjoyable was the SaintSans concerto upon learning that his fa
vorite composer was John Phillips Sousa) 
and sometimes a little disenchanting (it 
took the edge off the Vaughan Williams to 
find out that a final chord had been 
missing). But overall the advantages far 
outweighed the disadvantages, and after all, 
if it had not been for one of those 
musicians I would not have been there in 
the first place.
The next evening, after wasting the 
afternoon trying to find a camera and film, 
and after a chilly showing of a chilling film. 
Bunny Lake Is Missing. 1 set off for the
Wig whvvl Wikvs

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, February 12, 1974-Page 17
Alvin Ailey. Members of the marvelous 
Alvin Ailey Dance Theater will perform a 
work from their repertoire of jazz, modern 
and ballet on Saturday. March 9th at Heinz 
Hall. Tickets for the March 9th perfor
mance are S4.50. S5.50, $6.50 and S7.50, 
and are on sale at the Box Office, where a 
discount on tickets will be given with a 
student ID card. Tickets are also available 
at Gimbels,. Hornes, Kaufmanns, as well 
as Pitt bookstore. The performance co
ordinates with residency programs at area 
schools and universities from March 4th to 
March 9th. Any further information, group 
sales, etc., may be obtained by calling Dor
othy Bates, the promotion director, at 
281-8185. The program will include two of 
their most famous works, Cry and 
Revelations.
Theatre Productions. The Duquesne Uni
versity theatre club, the Red Masquers, 
wishes to announce the presentation of 
three one-act plays. The Sandbox, The 
Bedtime Story and The Twelve Pound 
Look at their campus theatre on February 
13, 14, 15, 16 at 8:30 for free.
The Pittsburgh Poor Players will stage Ar
thur Kopits gripping play Indians begin
ning February 14th. Kopit wrote Oh Dad, 
Poor Dad, Mamas Hung You in the Closet 
and Im Feelin' So Sad.
Beethoven Opera. Ludwig Van wrote one 
opera in his career, Fidelio, and it will be 
the next production of the Pittsburgh Op
era at Heinz Hall on February 14 and 16th. 
For ticket information call Heinz Hall at 
281-0912.
KJugman. Jack Klugman. who- studied 
acting in Carnegie-Mellons drama depart
ment of 1948, will be returning to the 
school on Wednesday, February 13. Al
though best known for his work on tele
vision. where he currently appears opposite 
Tony Randall every week in The Odd 
Couple, Klugman has appeared extensively 
on stage and in films. He studied at the 
American Theater Wing, appeared opposite 
Ethel Merman in Gypsy; and his film cred
its include Twelve Angry Men and Days of 
Wine and Roses. Klugman has won two 
Emmy awards for his work on television. 
He will field questions by drama students 
in The College of Fine Arts theater at 1:30 
pm.
Medieval Festival. Carnegie Institute will 
sponsor a special Medieval culture festival 
on February 23rd and 24th. There will be 
crafts exhibitions, a film program, as well 
as performances, special classes and tours 
of exhibits. Admission is 50 cents for stu
dents, and the festival will run all day, both 
days.
Chaplin Series. The Carnegie Institute 
Chaplin series will continue with The Great 
Dictator the 1940 film with Chaplin as 
Hinkley (Hitler) on February 22 at 8 pm. 
and 10:15 pm. in Carnegie Institute.
Herbie Hancock. The Activities Board will 
present jazz musician Herbie Hancock on 
March 2nd at Soldiers and Sailors Memorial 
Hall, of all places. Tickets are S3.00 with 
student ID, $4.00 without. Hancock is 
superb.
Moon Mysteries. If youre going to be 
around during February break, the Interna
tional Poetry Forum will present Moon 
Mysteries, three plays by William Butler 
Yeats, on February 22 at 8:15 pm. in Car
negie Music Hall. The production will in
clude the plays A Full Moon in March, The 
Cat and the Moon and The Only Jealousy 
of Emre. The plays, which involve much 
movement and rhythm in addition to 
speech, were inspired by the Japanese Noh 
Theatre. The production of Moon Myster
ies has been staged by Jean Erdman, who 
has won the Obie and Vernon Rice offBroadway awards for her production of 
The Coach with Six Insides, and the Drama 
Desk award for her choreography of Two 
Gentlemen of Verona. Tickets are 3, 4, and 
5 dollars, and are available at the Forum 
Office in Carnegie Library and at the door. 
The performance will co-ordinate with a 
two-day residency program for Ms. Erdman 
and her company of fourteen.
TWENTYONEHUNDRED, an experience 
in multimedia communication, will be 
coming to Skibo for several showings this 
week. The show is brought to CMU by the 
Tech Christian Fellowship, and it has been 
touring the country since 1970. The theme 
of the show is put across with wide-screen 
visual impact and an appropriate soundtracK. The th^lrte of the show deals with 
alienation, the conflicts between man and 
environment, man and his own inner con
flicts. The show will be mounted Feb. 12 
and 13 at 9 pm., Feb. 14 at 12 noon, Feb. 
15 at 11 pm., and Feb. 16 at 9 pm.
Film Retrospective. The American Film 
Series will continue this week with Citizen 
Kane, Orson Welles 1941 masterpiece, to 
be shown Sunday night, February 17th in 
the W'herrett room of Skibo at 7 pm. and 
9:30. (Peter Bogdanovich will not attend.)
Theatre in America Series will continue on 
WQED Thursday, February 14 at 8:00 
(repeated Saturday the 16th at 10 pm.) 
with Jean Anouihls drama Antigone, 
based on the Sophocles classic. The 
production stars Stacy Keach and Gen
evieve Bujold. Next week, February 21 will 
bring the New York Shakespeare Festival 
Production of King Lear, starring James 
Earl Jones with Rene Auberjonois, another 
CMU graduate, as Edgar.
Thv Alvid Ailvx Dpdcv Comppdx 
will pppvpu ph Hvidz Hpll Mpuch bhh
UNIVERSITY COPY SERVICE 
s0b N. Cupig Sh. 68L-54LL
HIGHEST QUALITY... 
shpup pvumpdvdh XEROX copivs 
od s0 lW. Wodd pppvu ou cmshomvu s owd lvhhvuhvpd
BOOKS PROPOSALS NOTES 
THESES TERM PAPERS
(pvu ouigidpl)
LOWEST PRICES...
40...............L Sh copx
30...............s-s0 copivs
sc...............sL ou mouv copivs
cpll pWomh omu lpugv volmmv uphvs pdd dvlivvux svuvicv 
-ou pdx spvcipl copxidg dvvds
COLLATING............................NO EXTRA CHARGE
LEGAL SIZE.........................NO EXTRA CHARGE
3 HOLE PUNCHED..............NO EXTRA CHARGE
s SIDE COPYING................NO EXTRA CHARGE

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 12, 1974
SPORTS
to Go
tans were down 50-38 at the half and it 
appeared ail was lost. However, the Tartans 
came through with an amazing comeback 
and tied the game at 65-65 with 8:37 left 
in the game. Unfortunately it took the 
Tartans another four minutes to score 
another point and John Carroll outscored 
them in that stretch, 17-6. Four Tartans 
scored in double figures. Chambers and 
Klein had 13 points each, Hotimsky had 
1 1, and DAngelo had 10.
The Allegheny game was not as close as 
these other two games. The Tartans were 
only down by seven at the half but in the 
second half the Tartans were held scoreless 
for a span of six minutes. There is no way a 
team can win without scoring for that long 
a time. Chambers had 14 while DAngelo 
had 11.
In the last two games, the Tartans have 
shown considerable progress. Balanced 
scoring is one of the signs of a good team. 
If the Tartans could repeat with having 
four or five players in double figures, the 
remaining games in the year could be very 
different from the rest of the year.
Tired of misinformation about drugs? Peer 
Help can give you straight answers. 150-A 
Baker Hall, 621-9900.
Three Down With Four
Chuck D'Angelo, Tartans' 3rd leading scorer, had 20 against MIT
TARTANS BEAT MIT
by Roger Geddes
Little by little the Tartan basketball 
team begins to show improvement. Last 
Saturday, in one of their highest scoring 
totals in several years, they defeated their 
rivals, Massachusetts Institute of Technol
ogy, by the score of 91-80. That increases 
their record to three wins against fourteen 
losses. In earlier action during the week, 
C-MU was handed defeats by John Carroll, 
.82-71, and Allegheny, 69-49.
The Tartans had control of the whole 
game against MIT. They led by 9 at the 
hald and stretched that lead to as much as 
18 in the second half. Their lead did falter 
a bit but it only made the game more 
exciting. Befensively, the Tartans reached 
their peak in the second half. For the first 
ten minutes of that half, the Tartans allow
ed MIT only one field goal. C-MU exper
ienced their most balanced scoring of the 
season. Five Tartans shot their way into 
double figures with Chuck DAngelo pacing 
them with 20 points. The others were Dan 
Jason with 19, Greg Chambers with 17, 
Rich Klein with 14, and Harry Hotimsky 
with 14.
Against John Carroll last week, the Tar*>onicArF KLH
bsr
JBOSi
Fisher
NOW THRU SATURDAYam
3 0 DAY PRICE GUARANTEE
If you should find identical merchandise that you can purchase at a lower 
price than we sold it to you, Audio Attic will refund the difference to you in 
cash within 30 days from date of purchase. All merchandise must be avail
able from another established local area merchant, be the same make and 
model, and be new -- not a floor sample. If anything you purchased is to be 
found at a lower price in this area, we will refund the difference plus 10%.
ONE YEAR SPEAKER EXCHANGE
If for any reason within one year after purchase of a compon
ent system from Audio Attic, you would rather have a 
different speaker system, you will receive FULL CREDIT 
of your purchase price toward the price of any equivalently 
or higher priced speaker.
KLH 51 
70 WATT IHF RECEIVER 
35 silicon transistors,
23 diodes. 10-35, 000 Hz. 
LIST $259.95 $187
Pioneer SX424 50 
Watt Stereo Receiver 
BSR 260 Turntable 
AR 4x Speakers
SAVE $128. 75 
SYSTEM PRICK^298
$426.75
; y y
PIONEER SX828 
270 WATT IHF 
STEREO RECEIVER 
LIST $499.95 $357
e nbn siom avfcd uoy ti .usigab 88 
svfl aiadmsm ilete eoinriDs 00Y -
MEMOREX 2400' x 7"
LIST $7.95 $3.59
LIMIT 5 PER CUSTOMER
i i MW 'ti  D
EARLY BIRD SPECIAL 
SANSUI 8 -- 120 WATT 
STEREO RECEIVER 
60 RMS PER CHANNEL 
LIST $599.95 $387
tBkjEfc '
8" woofer,
2 1/2" tweeter 
LIST $79.95 $57
SAVE $11. 07 
CULVER RAP 7 
REVERSIBLE 
HEADPHONE 
LIST $19. 95 
$8.88
GARRARD SL55B 
TURNTABLE 
With base and Shure 
cartridge.
LIST $106.80 $57
MUD A 2 050 AM/FM,
STEREO
RECEIVER
COMPACT
With 8-track tape
player built in.
LIST $259.95 $227
"WITH
DOLBY
PIONEER CT4141 STEREOl 
CASSETTE TAPE DECK 
With Dolby noise 
suppression 
LIST $269.95 $199
UPSTAIRS
3713 FORBES AVE. ,OAKLAND SECOND FLOOR ACROSS FROM McDONALDS 681-4560 
STORE HOURS 11 AM-6 PM TUES. , WED. , SAT. & 11 AM-9PM MON. , THURS. , FRI.

---------------------------------------------------

HE TARTANTuesday, February 12. 1974Page 19
Shinault, Bralkowski Have Shot at Pros
by Mike Pochan
In recent years, it has been a rare occurrance for a C-MU football player to 
progress into the pros, let alone get an 
offer. This year, two Carnegie- Mellon 
seniors, Mike Bralkowski and Ron Shin
ault, have been contacted by pro teams and 
could possibly make it to the big time.
Mike Bralkowski, a 61, 200 pound 
linebacker, has worn number 33 for the 
Tartans for 4 years, lettering each year. He 
was Co-captain of the 1973 Tartans who 
finished 5-3 overall. Bralkowski played 
locally in high school at Beaver High.
Ron Shinault, number 21, came out of
SCHOOLADMISSIONPROBLEMS?
' EuroMed may oiler RX via overseas training
For the session starting Fall, 1974, 
Euromed will assist qualified Amer
ican students in gaining admission 
to recognized overseas medical 
schools.
And that's just the beginning.
Sidcv hhv lpdgmpgv Wpuuivu codshihmhvs 
hhv puvpoddvuphv difficmlhx id smccvvd
idg ph p fouvigd schoolV hhv Emuomvd 
puogupm plso idclmdvs pd idhvdsivv 
Ls wvvk mvdicpl pdd codvvusphiodpl 
lpdgmpgv comusvV mpddphoux fou pll 
shmdvdhs. oivv homus dpilxV 5 dpxs pvu 
wvvk (LsL6 wvvks) hhv comusv is 
givvd id hhv comdhux whvuv hhv shmdvdh 
will phhvdd mvdicpl school.
Id pddihiod. Emuomvd puovidvs shm
dvdhs wihh p Ls wvvk idhvdsivv cml
hmupl ouivdhphiod puogupmV wihh 
Amvuicpd shmdvdhs dow shmdxidg mvdi
cidv id hhph ppuhicmlpu comdhux svuvidg 
ps comdsvlous.
Senior or fraduate students currently enrolled in an American university are elifible to participate in the Euromed program.
For application and further 
information, phone toll free,
(800) 645-1234 
or write,Euromed, Ltd.170 Old Country Road Minela. N Y. 11501
Garton High in Yonkers, New York. He 
stands at 6 and weighs in at 165 pounds. 
Shinault earned three varsity letters as a 
defensive cornerback.
Shinault and Bralkowski were scouted 
by the pro teams and have received appli
cations to try out for the Cincinnatti Bengals and Dallas Cowboys respectively. After 
returning their applications, the two play
ers must await a reply from the teams as to 
whether or not they will be invited to 
attend the pro summer camps. If the re
plies are positive, the players will attend 
pro camps as free agents and will have the 
opportunity to prove themselves.
Their success could improve the reputa
tion of C-MlTs athletic prowess greatly.Rod ShidpmlhMikv Buplkowski
RUGS
oOR
LESS
wihh xomu ID Cpud 
bx Lss $L5V $Lb. $sb. $3b 
plso 6xbsV LsxLssV LsxL5s
Also wpll hppvshuivsV Iddipd umgs fmuux umgs 
pdd Wvdspuvpds. Low puicvs ouivdhpl umgs id 
mpdx sizvs 
ASK ABOUT DISCOUNT oURNITURE
CHASE'S
54s6 Wpldmh 
Shpdxsidv
L0  m. 8 p m. SphV 'til 5 
oou d.udchiods cpH 6sL-L0s6
Campus Interviewsminds
matter
MITRE is a place which daily faces the challenge of minds over matter, and where, 
even more importantly, minds matter a lot. Since were a nonprofit system engineering 
company operating wholly in the public interest and dealing with tough problems 
assigned to us by more than a score of governmental agencies, we know that our 
greatest resource is the human mind. And we know that the kind of mind we need also 
needs to know that it will be working on important problems with other professionals. 
Whats more, well be quite specific in spelling out your assignment to you. All of this 
because you matter... and because at MITRE, minds matter.
We are currently seeking new graduates to work in command and control systems, 
information processing systems, electronic surveillance systems, communications 
systems, and environmental, health and other social systems.
If youre an EE, Computer Science, Math, Operations Research, or Physics major, you 
could be working on problems in telecommunications, voice communications, micro
wave and digital signal processing, educational information systems, radar design, 
propagation studies or advanced modulation, coding, error control and data 
compression techniques.
Or, you might want to get involved with water quality management, digital information 
systems, data handling and reduction, microprogramming techniques, data base 
structure, time sharing, text processing, management information systems for courts 
and police, computer program design and development or evaluation of present day 
software for phase-over to next generation machines. These are just a few of the 
areas in which you might get involved at MITRE.
All of these positions require a minimum of a BS degree. If you have more than a 
bachelors, thats everibetter. Almost % of our 700 technical staff members have 
advanced degrees.
All these openings are at our corporate headquarters at Bedford, Massachusetts 
(suburban Boston). If you are interested and think you can meet our standards, send us your resume. Better yet, wed like to talk to you on campus. Sign up at your Placement 
Office. be there on February 19.
Mr. Kenneth B. Keeler 
The MITRE Corporation 
Box 208 
Bedford, Massachusetts 01730
T M MITRE
CORPORATIONAd Affiumphivv Achiod Emploxvu

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 12, 1974
SUMMER 
SESSIONS 
CMU1974
During the summer, 1974 there will be two 
six-week sessions, as follows:
1st Six-Week Session 
May 14June 21
Regular Undergraduate Courses
THE TUITION WILL BE 
$20 PER UNIT
2nd Six-Week Session 
June 24August 2
Pre-College Program, CFA 
Advanced Placement/Early 
Admission Program 
Upward Bound 
Graduate Courses (English 
and History)
The regular eight-week summer session has 
been discontinued. The dates for that ses
sion should be deleted from your university 
calendar. The date for the registration of 
graduate students who continue on thesis 
research during the summer will be an
nounced.
The 1st Six-Week summer session will start 
on May 14 and end on June 21. A selection 
of regular undergraduate courses will be 
offered.
The following is the tentative list of courses 
to be offered. The actual courses to be 
offered will depend on the student re
sponse.
Students planning to take courses should 
fill in a coupon as shown below.
Name,
Local Address.
I am interested in the following courses
1. 
2.
Please return this coupon to:
Director of Summer Programs 
Room 216 Warner Hall 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213
Class schedules will be announced after it is 
determined which courses will be offered.
$Cpudvgiv-Mvl Iod Udivvusihx
TENTATIVE UNDERGRADUATE COURSES FOR SUMMER PROGRAMS
Statistics:36-211 Probability and Applied Statistics I9 units(1)
36-219 Statistical Methods for Data Analysis I9 units(1)
MIS
Chemistry:09-105 Elem. Physical Chemical Principles9 units(1)
09-106 Bonding and Structural Principles9 units(2)
09-117 Organic Chemistry I9 units(1)
09-218 Organic Chemistry 119 units(2)
09-243 Physical Chemistry II9 units(1)
Math:21-1 21 Calculus I9 units(1)
21-122 Calculus II9 units(1)
21-141 Linear Algebra9 units(1)
21-142 Foundations of Analysis9 units(1)
21-259 Higher Math of Engin. and Science I9 units(1)
21-260 Higher Math of Engin. and Science II9 units(1)
21-440 Number Theory9 units(1)
21-485 Mathematical Models9 units(1)
21-251 Ordinary Differential Equations9 units(1)
Physics:33-122 Physics II: Elec. and Mag. (Prob. Self-Paced)9 units(1)
33-121 Physics I: Mechanics (Prob. Self-Paced)9 units(1)
AMS70-363 Law in Modern American Society9 units(1)
H&SS
Economics:73-100 Econ. Anal, and Cont. Prob. I12 units(1)
73-200 Econ. Growth and Fluctuations12 units(1)
73-250 Resource Alloc, in Market Econ.12 units(1)
English:76-321 Shakespeare12 units(1)
76-406 Modern Novel12 units(1)
76-411 Intro, to the Reading of Poetry & Short Fiction12 units(1)
76-580 Composition: Expository Writing12 units(1)
History:79-291 Twentieth Century America12 units(1)
79--The American Ethnic Experience12 units(1)
79-500 Power And Values in the Modern World12 units(1)
79-505 The Development of the Modern Mind12 units(1)
79-506 Revolutionary Change in the Modern World12 units(1)
79---Culture and the Arts in Modern Europe12 units(1)
79-515 Science in Our Culture9 units(1)
79-662 Freedom and Authority: Intro, to Pol. Phil.12 units(1)
79-102 The Shaping of Western Civilization 1112 units(2)
79-103 American Civilization12 units(2)
MODERN LANGUAGES AND LITERATURES 
Tutorial Translation Workshops:
82-620 Translation Workshop: French6-12 units(1)
82-630 Translation Workshop: German6-12 units(1)
82-650 Translation Workshop: Russian6-12 units(1)
Programmed basic language skills courses:
82-107 Programmed FrenchUp to 18 units(1)
82-123 Programmed GermanUp to 18 units(1)
82-143 Programmed SpanishUp to 18 units(1)
PAINTING AND SCULPTURE
a.m. Courses 51-179 Calligraphy9 units(2)*
60-250 & 60-750 Ceramics9 units(2)*
60-229 Color9 units(2)*
60-380 & 60 780 Contemporary Art9 units(2)*
60 335 & 60-735 Lithography9 units(2)*
60-256 & 60-756 Metalcrafts9 units(2)*
60-240 & 60-740 Photography9 units(2)*
60-151 Drawing9 units(2)*
p.m. Courses60 250 & 60-750 Ceramics9 units(2)*
60-228 & 60 728 Painting9 units(2)*
60-346 & 60-746 Glassblowing9 units(2) *
60 331 & 60-731 Serigraphy9 units(2)*
60 262 & 60-762 Sculpture9 units(2)*
60-268 & 60 768 Weaving9 units(2)*
(1) = First Session  May 14June 21
(2) = Second Session  June 24Aug. 2
* Tuition $26 per unit
