TARTAN
September 19, 1978 Volume 79 Number 3 Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213
Cyert Optimistic
in Faculty Speech
President Cyert reports at the fall faculty meeting that the University is in the black for the sixth 
year in a row.
Young Leads English Dept.
by Robert Merges
Dr. Richard E. Young has been named 
to head the English Department. Dr. 
Young came to CMU after Spending more 
than 20 years at the University of Michigan 
as a student, professor, and administrator.
Commenting on the disparity in size 
between the two schools, Dr. Young said, 
It was rather difficult to get interesting 
programs going due to the size of the 
University. The engineering school alone 
at Michigan is approximately the size of 
all the colleges of CMU combined, and 
has about the same number of faculty as 
does CMU. In the area of policy, Dr. 
Young noted, CMU has institutionalized 
on a University-wide basis the features 
which I found attractive in Michigans 
Humanities Department. For instance, at 
Michigan we could experiment with new 
programs in the liberal arts, whereas at 
CMU, we not only can, but are expected 
to. He also added, It is substantially 
easier to initiate significant changes at 
CMU, although it will no doubt be dif
ficult, and properly so. Otherwise, wed be 
flying off in all directions. Concerning 
the differences in the environments of the 
two schools, Dr. Young stated, CarnegieMellon is like a family. Michigan is more 
1ke a city. Carnegie-Mellon is suited to 
be a pioneer in educational programs 
because of its size and tradition of exper
imental work. For example, it was the first 
college in the country to offer a program 
in technical writing. CMU has a general 
style of intellectual and educational 
experimentation.
One of the major recent developments 
in the College of Humanities and Social 
Sciences is the core curriculum. This 
curriculum represents one approach to 
liberal education, but it is fundamentally 
different from a traditional liberal arts 
program. Commenting on this issue, Dr. 
Young said, To function effectr ' as a 
citizen, certain kinds of knowledg i v 
immensely useful. We live in an esseinii/ity 
democratic, technological society, and no 
one discipline is adequate preparation for 
everything we find in the world. But areas 
such as literature, history, and philosophy 
can be very helpful, in that they deal wp't
continued on page 22
Money Machine to Open Soon
The Mellon Banking Machine begins 
operation this week.
This automated banking facility, located 
by the stairwell on the main floor of 
Skibo, allows the customer to deposit and 
withdraw money from his account, as well 
as pay bills at any time the building is 
open. Those hours are: Monday-Thursday:
7 AM to midnight: Friday: 7 AM to 1 AM; 
and weekends: 9AM to 1 AM.
Students who opened their accounts at 
the new account center the first week in 
September, will receive their banking 
cards, required to operate the machine, as 
well as checks for checking account holders 
in the mail.
However, those students who sent in 
mail applications for accounts, but did not 
sign signature cards for their accounts, 
must come to the University Branch 
Office of the Mellon Bank, on the corner 
of Fifth and Craig. Those accounts wont 
be opened until the signatures have been 
received.
Students with questions or problems 
with their accounts should visit or call 
thr University Offiie. 621  3344.
President Richard M. Cyert presented 
his State of the University address to "he 
faculty on Wednesday, September 13. 
He announced the recipient of the Ryan 
Teaching Award and the Phillip M. Mc
Kenna Award: Helen Gossard and Jerold 
Swedlow.
Cyert described several dimensions 
for assessing where CMU stands now and 
where it is going, including the quality of 
students, quality of faculty, reputation, 
and financial status.
Cyert stated that his major empha
sis over the past four years has been on 
improving CMUs academic quality. He 
cited the importance of continual intro
spection which must be done on a de
partmental and administrative level. The 
administrative introspection is done via the 
Policy Committee, which meets every three 
weeks to examine the strengths and 
directions of each department. This 
committee is composed of the President, 
VP for Management, Provosts, and Deans.
The success of the Computer Science 
department drew praise from Cyert. He
said that it is being nationally recognized 
as one of the top three computer science 
departments along with Stanford and 
MIT. The departments success has been 
due to excellent Faculty recruiting and 
management. Recruiting has been good 
in Engineering, Mathematics, Biology, 
and H&SS, but SUPA and GSIA have 
been less successful, Cyert stated.
Cyert expressed his goal to enhance 
CMUs reputation as a fine liberal arts 
institution, believing that when we more 
properly describe the new H&SS curri
culum to prospective students, the H&SS 
enrollment will rise appropriately. Cyert 
disclosed that he, along with the under
graduate deans of Harvard, Yale, and 
Johns Hopkins will write a symposium 
on liberal arts education for probable 
publication in Harpers Magazine. Each of 
the four men will write his own section. 
Cyert, (whose piece is already written), 
believes this could go some distance in 
establishing CMU as a university with a 
significant interest in liberal arts education, 
continued on page 19
Faculty Awards Given
The Ryan
CMU has named pianist Helen Gossard 
the 1978 winner of the Ryan Award for 
meritorious teaching.
The honor was announced September 13 
by President Cyert at the Fall faculty meet
ing. Gossard, an associate professor, is the 
18th recipient of the award, a certificate! 
and honorarium presented annually in re
cognition of outstanding undergraduate 
teaching.
A member of the CMU faculty since 
1955, Gossard has also been organist of the 
Mifflin Avenue Methodist Church in Pitts
burgh for the past 15 years and Pittsburgh 
area chairman of the National Guild of Pi
ano Teachers since 1973.
Among her contributions to undergradcontinued on page 21
The McKenna
Jerold L. Swedlow, professor of Mecha
nical Engineering, has been named the 
1978 recipient of the Universitys Philip 
M. McKenna Award for his outstanding 
contributions to fracture mechanics.
Swedlow, a member of the faculty since 
1966, is a specialist in the structural inte
grity of metals. He has investigated and 
developed methods for systematically ana
lyzing potential weaknesses in metals, 
critically important to manufactures of 
aircraft, nuclear reactors, and high pressure 
| vessels. He has also developed finite ele| ment computer models specifically to 
5 analyze micro-cracks which are present in 
 almost all materials, whether visible or not, 
| and predict whether they will remain 
Q- continued on page 21

---------------------------------------------------

/CONTRWf^D^ Xtl M 1 I L MTWeWI...,
' . \ <3<mA F !Nt> AControversies V^HTWei'
>4 CAf6/ professor (and friend of the TARTAN) com
mented last week that controversies electrify this campus.
The administration fears controversies and is always at
tempting to quell disturbances and prevent any "rocking of 
the boat. The embarrassments of past wrangling and alter
cations have made them dosed-mouthed and cautious. Their 
fondest wish would be to make it through a year, troublefree.
The chances of bad publicity, mutiny among the faculty, 
and protests, (or worse) among the students have made the 
administation over-wary. Granted, they see nothing wrong 
with pros and cons as long as the rest of the campus is pro 
when theyre pro, and vice-versa.
But then there are the students. They are hungry for con
troversy whether it comes from Warner Hall, the Tartan 
Grill or the pits on the cut. Controversy is the bond that 
keeps students from different majors and colleges on the 
same wave length. Whats going on, what's going wrong, 
whats going to hell (or somewhere else)students eat it up. 
It keeps campus spirit alive.
Then there is the TARTAN. If the students are hungry 
for controversy, the TARTAN is foaming at the mouth 
waiting for it. Thats not to say that we're out to muckrake 
where theres no need to, but we get excited with "burning 
issues and we feel its our duty to report on them.
As the professor put it, the electricity of controversy 
makes for an interesting balance on campus. You can be 
sure that the next stormy conflict (when we all bare our 
teeth) will receive adequate attention in the TARTAN. Our 
readers (except those in Warner Hall) wouldnt want it any 
other way.
You're Number One
In recent TARTAN polls it has become evident that the 
most popular section of this newspaper, week after week, is 
not written by TARTAN staffers. Poll results indicate that 
the letters-to-the-editor section is read by over 85% of the 
CMU community. With a circulation of 5,500, that means 
that each letter receives a lot of attention.
In the past, the letters-to-the-editor section has been the 
breeding and beating ground for controversies. The raging 
"fruits and vegetables debate of two years ago began as a 
TARTAN letter. (Now its mentioned in the Underground 
Guide to Colleges review of CMU) The Rhodesian, Music 
Ed, and Watermelon Bash fiascos of last year were constant
ly the subject of scathing and defensive letters.
Letters almost always fall into one of five categories (the 
Five Cs); Complaints, Confessions, Corrections, Compli
ments or Convictions. Sometimes the TARTAN receives 
twenty such -letters a week and as long as they are signed, 
we try to print them all. Names may be withheld upon re
quest.
If youve never written a letter before, but have some
thing you want to get off your chest and onto paper, just 
type it up and mail it to us through campus mail. Or stop by 
our office (Skibo 50). If no one is down here, tack it on the 
door. If someone is here, come on in and say hello. And 
be nice to us. The sixth C (for Consolation Prize) belongs to 
us TARTAN staffers, because what we write just doesn't 
have the readership that your letters command.
Greenhorns in newsprint
A good portion of todays TARTAN was written and 
photographed by rookies. Over 40 students, many of them 
freshmen, showed up at different editorial meetings last 
week, and most of them received their first by-lines in to
days edition.
The TARTAN editorial board, of course, would like to 
encourage anyone with an interest in any phase of this news
paper to stop by. The great thing about the TARTAN is 
that it will gladly accept as much or as little attention and 
work as you decide to give it. Whether it's an article a week 
or an article a month, the TARTAN can use your contri
bution.
Artists, photographers, business people, typesetters, crea
tive writers and layout artists are also welcome. Be initiated 
into the TARTAN family; all it takes is that first by-line, 
photo credit or Folio feature.
Jeffrey Zaslow 
Editor-in<hief
W
PS+en7S
Letters
Honeymoon Suite
Editor:
I think it is very unfair that 
certain married students are 
not allowed to live on campus. 
I know that there is a housing 
problem, and that to house a 
student along with his or her 
non-student family would be 
unfair to other students seek
ing housing on campus. But 
what about childless couples in 
which both are full-time stud
ents? Shouldnt two full-time 
students who happen to be 
married have the right to share 
a room or apartment that 
would otherwise be shared by 
two single students? I know 
that there are apartments and 
double rooms available that 
would be appropriate to house 
married students who desire to 
live on campus. I suggest that 
the housing office discontinue 
this discriminatory practice, 
and that they change their pol
icy so that students which fall 
into this category may have the 
option to seek on-campus
housing for the 1979-80 school 
year.
Lyle Montgomery 
Class of 1980
Hang-ups
Editor:
Fixing of posters to surfaces 
other than campus bulletin 
boards will result in a fine of up 
to $100 as of October first. This 
regulation is just another example 
of the administration needlessly 
quelling the sort of spontaneity 
vital to our campus community.
There is no reason why placing 
announcements on brick walls 
should be prohibited. Poster hang
ing is not only a means of dissem
inating information, it is a cre
ative outlet and a marketing de
vice. The purpose of hanging 
posters is not to put them where 
they can be found, but rather 
where they can be seen by a large 
number of students. The current 
student handbook states that 
Bulletin boards are provided at 
strategic locations throughout the 
campus, yet blank walls are pro
vided at some of the most stra
tegic locations I have ever seen. Of 
course, I may not be a good judge 
of strategic locations, but it seems 
like there must be at least one in 
Science Hall somewhere. And at 
least one on the second floor of 
Doherty Hall, and I thought I 
saw one at the top of the brick 
staircase in Baker Hall.
Any person caught putting 
posters in a strategic location 
rather than a campus bulletin 
board will be subject to the fine 
plus cost of removal. Most 
CMU students are not destructive 
in nature and seem to prefer mas
king tape in favor of stronger 
adhesives like cement or epoxy 
glue, so this cost of removal 
could not be too much. However, 
a penalty of $100 for announcing 
your event in an imaginative, non
conformist way is grossly unfair. 
It would be more reasonable to 
require that all posters be dated 
and that they be removed within 
one week after the event has 
occurred.
The administration seems to

TARTAN
v
Volume 79Septsmbr 19. 1978Number 3
Editor-i' Chief : 
Managing Editor: 
Business Manager: 
News Editors:
Features Editor: 
FOLIO Editor: 
Entertainment Editor: 
Acting Sports Editors:
Photography Edit : 
Assistant Nev/s ana Feaiuis Fdaor 
Production Manager:
Assistant Photography Editor: Skip Bia/elion 
Production Assistants:Nei' Adler, Robert usman
Jeff Zaslow 
Saul Carliner 
Stephanie Waite 
Brian Byrnes 
Jean Pellegrini 
Linda Deak 
K. A. Yaksich 
Joan Lvitski 
Howard Turner 
Leslie Weiser 
V. R. V. Ramanan 
Eliioi Ohlbero 
Tim Wenk
Copyright 1978 by the Carnegie-Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit or 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Government of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Penn- ania 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo ri0 (412) 578- 
2111 or 2112. Business Offices: Skibo 52; (412) 578-2,ALL RIGHTS *iESERVED

---------------------------------------------------

Brenda A. Eatman, a student at the Medili School of Journalism, Northwestern University, addresses the CMU campus on race relations.
As undergraduate years begin for 
Freshmen and another academic 
year commences for upperclass
men, I would like to encourage 
you all to seek a total education.
A total education involves much 
more than mere intellect and 
aroveling for the necessary grades 
to get into the nations pro
fessional schools. At the heart of 
such an educational experience is 
personal growth stemming from 
exposure to and interaction with 
persons embracing ideologies, life
styles, cultures and backgrounds 
different from ones own.
I have had a myriad of educa
tional and other exposures which 
have resulted in a wealth of 
positive sharing experiences with 
persons of nearly every race, 
class and religion from every 
part of the U.S. and the globe. 
Such experiences, such warm, 
wonderful relationships and such 
fun cannot be replaced by aca
demics.
this type of sharing and interac
tion in my three years as a student 
there.
I have seen, and continue to see, 
black and white students divided 
into two camps which mutually 
ignore each other. I see students 
making assessments of persons as 
members of a particular group 
rather than as individuals. I see 
students so involved in getting 
grades they pay little attention to 
personal growth, to becoming the 
fullest, most mature human beings 
they can be.
In short, I see narrowmindedness 
and other qualities which arent 
quite in sync with the intellectual 
and social aristocracy that attend 
the school, I blame no one for the 
situation at Northwestern. But I 
have come to the conclusion that 
conditions may be the same 
throughout the nations institu
tions of higher learning. I decided 
to do something about it.
I am aware that there are reasons 
I am impelled to write because, as for the coldness between groups 
a black Senior at Northwestern to which I have referred. But 
University, I have seen little of members of the academic communities I am addressing are more 
than intelligent enough to tact
fully discuss and work out cul
tural differences, both on an in
dividual basis and collectively.
For it is only in this way-more 
and more individuals beginning to 
communicate and change one 
anothers lives- that race (and 
world) relations will improve. But 
we will accomplish little or no
thing by separating ourselves into 
camps.
Dont get me wrong. Certain 
things can be accomplished by the 
two groups working separately. I 
see nothing wrong with whites 
who are interested in improving 
race relations working to show 
other whites the light. And I 
certainly advocate blacks working 
toward political and economic 
solidarity. But at some point, 
the two groups must come to
gether.
I am not saying that such sharing, 
such efforts to break the ice, to 
improve race relations will be 
easy. Blacks will encounter some 
hostile and patronizing whites
along the way and whites will 
encounter some hostile and Uncle 
Thomas-type blacks. All will en
counter those within their own 
groups who are opposed to efforts 
to develop healthy relationships 
with those of other groups.
But let us make our assessments 
and judgements of persons on an 
individual basis and from personal 
experience. Freshmen, try not to 
fall prey to peer pressure and 
racial schooling by upperclass
men. Racial schooling refers to 
the deliberate encouragement to 
ignore and deplore those of an
other race without sound basis 
for such actions. Take every 
opportunity that presents itself, 
Freshmen, to meet unique, inter
esting people you normally would 
not.
Acknowledge the fact that in any 
group of people one will encoun
ter some rude, irresponsible, incon
siderate, selfish, generally un
pleasant people. And in any group 
one will encounter those who are 
giving, optimistic, courteous and 
fair. It is the latter group of 
human beings, and relationships 
with its members which will
make all efforts to share worth
while.
This letter of appeal I have for
warded for publication to 54 
college and university newspapers 
which serve student bodies similar 
to Northwesterns in size, compo
sition, control and academic ori
entation. Located in Evanston, 
Illinois, Northwestern University 
has nearly 7500 undergraduates, 
a ten percent black student 
population and is privately con
trolled. Its admissions standards 
are high and its' academic and 
professional departments are of 
good reputation.
No, I dont expect to change the 
course of the world through 
such a meager effort. I hope 
only to encourage and increase 
communication and understand
ing in the university setting.
To a total education at CarnegieMellon. Freshmen, its your chal
lenge. Upperclassmen, its not too 
late. I pray for more commu
nication and understanding bebetween the races and other 
groups this year than Ive seen 
in three at Northwestern.
more Letters
think that there is adequate public 
bulletin board space around cam
pus. There is not. With the new 
regulation smaller signs will inevi
table be covered over due to lack 
of space as more than fifty cam
pus organizations attempt to pub
licize their events.
I assume that the adminis
tration's purpose is to avoid clut
ter on the waLj and ceilings. 
Requiring that posters be dated 
and removed promptly will ac
complish this without placing a 
severe limitation on the freedom 
to uniquely advertise that we now 
enjoy.
Linda Voorhis
Rhodesian rebuttal
Editor:
The first issue of the TARTAN 
contains an interview with Dean 
Otto Davis of SUPA endorsing 
the recent agreement between 
Prime Minister Ian Smith of 
Rhodesia and three black leaders. 
Dean Davis appears to be very 
critical of those, including Pres
ident Carter, who have appeared 
skeptical of this settlement. The 
Tartan report indicates that Dean 
Davis repeated several times that 
the settlement was satisfactory 
because it was based on a one 
man-one vote principle.
There are other parts of this 
agreement which were not men
tioned that have been the source 
of much of the criticism of the 
settlement. While the population 
of Rhodesia is only 4% white, 
28% of the seats in the parliament 
are reserved for whites, most of 
whom are to be selected by a 
white electorate. Furthermore, it 
appears that most of the white 
police power is to remain un
changed, leading to serious ques
tions as to the honesty of the 
election process. The recent re
moval from office of Byron 
Howe by Prime Minister Smith 
raises serious questions about the
commitment of Smith to an 
honest transfer of power.
There are no easy answers to 
the problems of Africa. What 
bothers me about the TARTAN 
report is that Dean Davis has 
seemed to ignore some serious 
issues in order to endorse the 
Ian Smith agreement. Last fall 
when a group of black Rhodesian 
students were brought to study 
at SUPA, accusations were made 
by some students that SUPA 
was trying to train blacks who 
would cooperate with the Smith 
government. Unfortunately the 
apparent bias of Dean Davis 
remarks quoted by the Tartan 
seems to lend credence to those 
accusations.
Lincoln Wolfenstein 
University Professor of Physics
One man /= one vote
Editor:
We must all agree with Dean 
Otto A. Davis that the democratic 
principle of one man/one vote can 
be the only foundation for a just 
settlement of the Zimbabwean 
problem. As in any public policy 
question, however, a careful ex
amination of the facts and analy
sis of the results of pursuing var 
ious policies must be completed 
before a decision is made on the 
most suitable means to employ in 
pursuit of the given ends. Dean 
Davis claims that the internal 
settlement' is based on the one 
man/one vote principle, funda
mental to democratic government, 
and that any U.S. failure to sup
port this settlement is a desertion 
of our belief in popular sovereign
ty and can in fact only aid the 
Zimbabwe Patriotic Front. Let us 
examine these claims more close
lyAt present, whites comprise 
just under four percent of Zim
babwes population. Yet the in
ternal settlement calls tor a 
one hundred member legislature.
with twenty-eight white and sev
enty-two black members. Every
body, white and black, may vote 
for the seventy-two black mem
bers. Of the twenty-eight white 
members, twenty are to be chosen 
by whites only, and the remain
ing eight to be elected by every
body from a slate of sixteen to be 
chosen by the outgoing white 
members of the legislature. This 
system must remain in force for at 
least ten years, at the end of 
which time, if a certain commis
sion to be then appointed so re
commends, it may be changed by 
a simple majority of the legisla
ture, which then will apparently 
be entitled only to open up some 
black seats for both black and 
white contenders. Any other 
change in the agreement requires 
a seventy-eight vote majority, of 
which obviously at least six must 
be white. Is this one man/one 
vote, or is it something more like 
one man (black)/one vote, one 
man (white)/eight votes plus a 
good share of veto power? In 
addition, it would be most sur
prising if even within this frame
work, the present government 
permitted all who wished to run 
for election, and did not also en
gage in the sort of corrupt manipu
lation of the voting of which 
Latin American dictators are so 
fond.
But not only is the legislature 
so undemocratic. So is the minis
terial council, equally divided beween black and white. Certain 
other provisions of the agreement 
provide for the independence of 
the judiciary, civil service, police, 
and military will remain unchang
ed. The same racist judiciary and 
police force, the military that is 
not above invading neighboring 
countries or, according to Sister 
Janice McLaughlin and others, 
slaughtering innocent civilians and 
attributing the foul results to 
guerrillas, the white-dominated
civil servicethese, the true power 
retained by the white community, 
make a farce of the cosmetic 
changes in the legislature and 
council of ministers. Indeed, it 
has already happened that when a 
black official, Byron Hove, a coll
eague of Muzorewa, recommend
ed that qualified Africans be more 
quickly advanced in the military 
and police, he was promptly dis
missed.
The agreement provides that 
there shall be no deprivation of 
property without adequate com
pensation. This too sounds fairafter all, does our own Fifth 
Amendment not include this pro
vision?until one recognizes 
that eighty percent of Zimbabwes 
land is owned by the white four 
percent of the people. Thus no 
real land reform can occur with
out an adequate tax base to raise 
the revenues to buy much of that 
and. Since the wealth is in the 
hands of whites, that would mean 
taxing white persons and busi
nesses. With those same whites 
controlling the army and the po
lice, what government would dare 
attempt to enforce such taxes? 
The presence in the government 
of all the quislings and Benedict 
Arnolds in the world, Muzorewa, 
Sithole, Chirau, Chikerema, Chavunduka and the rest, will not 
change one iota the true racist 
nature of the system presently in 
power on Zimbabwean soil.
Had King George III, in 1776, 
proposed something analogous to 
the internal settlement, even with 
some American-born Tories to 
support him, the patriots, Wash
ington, Jefferson, Paine and the 
rest, would not have paused for 
a moment to consider relinquish
ing the armed struggle for inde
pendence in favor of cooperation 
with such a plan. So it is with the 
Zimbabwe Patriotic Front. Its 
program call for genuine majority 
rule, with free elections to be held
on a real basis of one man/one 
vote without regard to color. And 
if the Patriotic Front has resorted 
to armed struggle, it is only be
cause its members, like the found
ers of this country, have recogniz
ed after long years of legal and
I often illegal nonviolent protest 
that it is the only path to their 
goal. What is more, if the Patrio
tic Front receives arms and other 
support from socialist countries, 
it is only because the capitalist 
ones turned it down when it put 
its case to themNkomo and 
Mugabe would be pleased to ac
cept help from any place they can 
get it.
Now let us ask Dean Davis, just 
whose policies are fundamentally 
wrong? It is not the internal set
tlement that is in accord with 
our countrys stated democratic 
beliefs. It is, if anything, the pro
gram of the Patriotic Front. The 
least that we can do to further the 
cause of democracy in Zimbabwe 
is to enforce economic sanctions 
against the present regime and to 
insist that any agreement include 
the Patriotic Front. All-out war 
can be avoided only be a guaran
tee of real transfer of power in 
Zimbabwe, the fundamental de 
mand, behind which only the Pat
riotic Front is now standing. 
Hence, the policies of President^ 
Carter and Ambassador Young, 
based as they are on attempts to 
secure negotiations in which the 
Patriotic Front can participate, 
are the right ways to secure demo
cracy and peace in the area. And 
it is most important that their ef
forts to maintain the economic 
boycott be maintained, lest 
Rhodesia become de facto anoth
er entrenched South Africa.
Daniel Mark Rosenblum, Ronald 
A. Dye, Jacqueline Cohen, Dan
iel Cleverdon, John Zaehringer, 
Aitya Nath Saharia. Steven Dytman, Philip Moore, Thomas Kerr

---------------------------------------------------

Classified Deadline: Thursday 9 AM.
Rate: $.10 per word. Announcements
free to non-profit and campus organiza
tions, provided they are received typed, 
double-spaced and before deadline. Late 
penalty of $.10 per word for late 
announcements.
classified
Sheila, Paulette, Jane, Karen, Tara, Rose,
Elaine, Sue, Gail and Karen From now 
on, every week in the TARTAN, I'll have a 
special message for you. love, your 
AUNT DOT.
clubs
AUNT FANNY NEEDS HELP! Deli-coun
ter people, cooks-grill/short-order, dish
washer/utility person.
AUNT FANNY NEEDS YOU! Full and
part-time positions available immediately 
in Pittsburgh's most exciting New York 
style deli-restaurant. Apply in person, 7 to
10 PM, Tuesday to Saturday.
AUNT FANNY'S NOSHERIA, Baum Blvd. 
at Roup Ave. (near Negley) Pittsburgh, PA 
687-5600. Bagels, corned-beefsandwiches, 
and boardwalk-style ice cream.
Part-time help wanted - Car Joackey. 3
PM to II PM or II PM to 7 AM. Call 68II4I4 - Ask for Bob.
Room - Share Bath $70.00 Room - Private
bath $90.00. 5 minute walk from CMU/ 
refrigerators and stoves in rooms; Call 
68I-I4I4 - Ask for Bob.
Restaurant help wanted:Part time and full
timecooks, porters, dishwashers, .barten
ders. waiters , waitresses, bus help. Inquire 
at Cafe Stephen B's-5487 Ellsworth Ave. 
at College Ave. in Shadyside. Call 36I-0I88, 
I0AM to 3 PM after Monday, September 18
For Sale: standard size tape cassettes
EDT quality, slightly used. $2.50 
each. Hunt Institute x2434.
Minority Women in Technology and
Science will be holding their first general 
meeting on Thursday. September 21 in the 
3B lounge of Morewood Gardens at 
7:00 PM. Everyone is welcome to attend 
(includes all academic majors).
The SPIRIT organization will host its
annual "FALL PICNIC" on Saturday, 
September 23, 1978 at Flagstaff Hill. 
The affair will begin at 12 noon and 
is open to all members. Please bring your 
frisbees, footballs, and backgammon sets. 
We will also need people to cook the 
hamburgers and hotdogs; those interested 
may sign up on the bulletin board out
side of the C-MAP office.
This evening, Bob Malone will be 
talking about missions: what the
missionary field is all about and the 
role it should play in our lives. There 
will be good fellowship and worship 
to compliment the teaching. InterVarsity Christian Fellowship is a stu
dent group of believers in Christ ded.- 
icated to growing in Him and spread
ing His message to the'world. Join us 
every Tuesday night in room 45 
Skibo, at 7 PM.
W3VC, CMU's Amateur Radio Club,
will be holding its next meeting on Tues
day, September 26 at 7:30 PM in room 
401 Hammerschlagg Hall (in the tower). 
All are welcome.
WANTED: Athletic-looking models to pose
for women's culture newsletter. Send des
cription and phone no. to: WASP, P.O. 
Box 351, Irwin, PA 15264.
Women of all ages, races, religions and na
tionality backgrounds have been victims of 
sexual assaults. Any woman over 18 who 
has ever been a victim of rape or other sex
ual assault will be paid $5.00 if willing to 
share information with a University of 
Pittsburgh female rape research team seek
ing to improve services to women. All con
fidential. Please call 624-4249. If no ans
wer, call 355-5764.
Dependable, Accurate Typing Minimal
Cost IBM Theses/Dissertations 687-4678
HELP WANTED: Guitarist-vocalist. Parttime, evenings. Apply in person. The 
Crepe Place. Walnut St. Shadyside.
Fibre Art Supplies including looms
and accessories at a discount to the 
artist. Call Babs Blaine-Gussik, 327- 
88I3.
French Film with English subtitlesLe Million by Rene Clair. Admission 
is $1.00 at the door. Sponsored by 
the Club Francophone. The first 
general meeting of the club will fol
low the film. Anyone interested may 
join. Election of officers will also 
take place.
SARC MEETING: The Student Alumni
Relation Council (SARC) will hold its first 
general meeting Thursday, September 21, 
1978 at 8 PM in the Wherrett Room. All 
old members and any other interested per
sons invited to attend.
Scotch'n'Soda will be holding Thursday 
Nite at the Sodies II on September 28 at
8 PM in the Wherret Room. It is the second 
in a series of informal script readings and 
coffeehouse entertainment. The campus 
community is invited to attend and par
ticipate. Writers who wfch to submit 
scripts and entertainers who, wish to per
form should stop by the Sn'S office in 
Skibo Room 40D sometime this week.
B'nai B'rith Hillel will sponsor the follow
ing activities: A Masada Coffeehouse, 
Saturday, September 23, at 9 PM; a 
brunch, Sunday, September 24, at 11:30 
AM; as well as High Holy Day Services 
and Friday night dinner and services at 
the Center, 315 S. Bellefield Ave. For 
information, call 6218875.
Every Saturday morning we enjoy
prayer and breakfast together Tn the 
name of the Lord. You're invited. 
Kiltie Cafe, Skibo, 9 AM. Sponsored 
by Inter-Varsity Christian Fellow
ship.
DELTA SIGMA THETA, INC., THETA
BETA CHAPTER OF CARNEGIEMELLON UNIVERSITY, thanks all the 
participants of their "WELCOME DISCO" 
for the benefit of the SICKLE CELL 
ANEMIA FOUNDATION. Special thanks 
to the "2002 Experience", Bridgette Nash, 
the "M.I.D.'s" and the "Omegas". The 
chapter will host an Annual Fall Rush 
to be announced.
The TARTAN is opening its Classified
Fence to the CMU community for ten 
dollars. The fence will be filled each week 
on a first come first served basis. Paint 
the TARTAN fence. Call 578-2III, or 
leave a message at the Skibo info desk, 
c/o the TARTAN.
scholarships awards prizes
Philip Morris Incorporated has announced
its tenth annual Marketing/Communica
tions Competition for College Students.
A $1000 grant will be awarded to the 
winning entries at both the undergraduate 
and graduate levels; runners up will receive 
$500 grants; and other finalists in the 
undergraduate and graduate categories will 
receive special merit awards. Entries may 
deal with any aspect of the broad areas of 
marketing/communications related to Phil
ip Morris Incorporated, its non-tobacco 
operating companies or any of its non
tobacco products.
Student chapters of professional soci
eties, regular classes or ad hoc committees 
of no less than five students at the under
graduate level and no less than two at the 
graduate level under the counsel of full
time faculty members may submit pro
posals.
For additional information, please con
tact Marketing/Communications Competi
tion, Philip Morris Incorporated, 100 
Park Avenue, New York, New York 
10017.
general
The American Dance Ensemble of
Point Park College will conduct
classes to the public. Students will be 
selected on the basis of audition.
Classes will be in ballet, modern,
jazz, tap, ethnic, character and folk. 
The classes will consist of two 14
week sessions starting September 21,
I978 on the premises of Point Park 
College. Registrations and auditions 
will be held on Sept. 14 and 15 from
2:00 to 6:00 PM and 7:00 to 9:00 PM an 
on Sept. 16 from II :00 to 4:00 PM at Point 
Park College.
GENESIS 2, a comprehensive, multimedia program on human and spiritual 
development is being offered Tuesday 
evenings at 8:00 from September 26 
through November 14 by the ROMAN 
CATHOLIC UNIVERSITY ORATORY OF 
THE HOLY SPIRIT PARISH. An In
troductory film explaining this new 
program will be shown at The Oratory on 
Tuesday, September 19 at 8:00 and again 
after the 7:00 Saturday evening Mass, 
September 23 and the 10:30 Sunday 
Mass, September 24 in the multi-purpose 
room of Hunt Library. Further informa
tion call The Oratory: 681-3181. Ask for 
Father Bob English or Sister Bernadette.
John P. Crecine, Dean of the College
of Humanities and Social Sciences 
will be holding office hours starting 
Tuesday, September 19, I978 from
l:30 to 3:30.
PEER HELP is students trained to
listen and help you make your own 
decisions. For counseling, campus in
formation, tutoring, health and law 
referrals, emergency loans, or just 
someone to talk to, stop by the Cen
ter, Baker Hall I50-A, or phone, 62I9900. Hours: Weekdays-10:30 to
5:30; Sundays to Thursdays- 7:30 to 
ll:30. Fridays and Saturdays-7:30 
to 12:30.
President Richard M. Cyert will have open
office hours for students during October, 
November, and December.
The first date for these meetings is 
Thursday, October 19, 1978 between 3 and 
5 PM in his office. Students who wish-to 
meet individually with the President should 
telephone his office, 578-2200, for an ap
pointment between 3 and 4 o'clock. The 
hour between 4 and 5 o'clock will be open 
fot students who want to meet with the 
President but do not have an appointment.
It is hoped that this program will be of 
benefit to both the President and the stu
dents in allowing students direct contact 
with him.
About Class RingsBji Know Everything
li O  -........,.......Y--iii~~".............
i O :
Wed'Thurs, Fri

---------------------------------------------------

YOU CAN DO IT!
It gets down to what you want to do and what you 
have to do. Take the free Evelyn Wood Reading 
Dynamics lesson and you can do ithandle all the 
work college demands and still have time to enjoy 
college life.
You can dramatically increase your reading speed 
today and thats just the start. Think of the time, 
the freedom youd have to do the things you want 
to do. For twenty years the ones who get ahead
have used Reading Dynamics. It's the way to read 
for today s active worldfast, smooth, efficient.
Dont get left behind because there was too much 
to read. Take the free Evelyn Wood Reading 
Dynamics lesson today. You can dramatically 
increase your reading speed and learn about 
advanced study techniques in that one free 
lesson. Make the college life the good life. With 
Reading Dynamics you can do it.
SCHEDULE OF FREE LESSONS
STUDENTS, FACULTY AND ADMINISTRATION OF CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY
MONDAY SEPT. 18 THRU FRIDAY SEPT. 22 
11:30 A.M. SCIENCE HALL 5320 6:30 P.M. IN SCIENCE HALL 5316
FIRST TIME OFFERED ON ANY PITTSBURGH CAMPUS AT STUDENT DISCOUNT
? EVELYN WOOD READING DYNAMICS
 1978 Evelyn Wood 
Reading Dynamics Inc
EIGHT CHAPTERS OF
BABYLONIAN HISTORY FOR 
TOMORROWS EXAM
AND CATHY'S WAITING.

---------------------------------------------------

page 6-TARTAN-September 19,1978
Kiltie Band Determined to March
by Ed Frankenberry
Dean of Student Affairs, Earle Swank, 
announced last week the formation of the 
Office of Off-Campus Housing. The new 
center opened on September 15 on the 
lower level of Skibo under the direction of 
Yvonne McCredie.
The center is primarily designed to serve 
three functions. According to Ms. McCre
die, the office will maintain up to date files 
on apartments and houses for sale or rent. 
It will consolidate listings for those in need 
of rooms or roommates, and serve as an in
formation base for students or faculty new 
to the area.
The Off-Campus Housing Office is avail
able to any member of the University com
munity free of charge. Ms. McCredie en
courages students interested in living off 
campus or posting housing opportunities 
to contact her office in Skibo 56, campus 
ext. 3520. Students can browse through 
apartment listings as well as details on 
transportation, community services and 
school systems. A telephone is also provid
ed for contacting realtors once students 
have used the files. Ms. McCredie hopes to 
assist a substantial number of students 
wishing to change their accommodations 
for the second semester.
The office will be operated fojr a threeyear trial period because of the tight 
housing situation the University found 
itself in this fall.
Any questions, comments, suggestions, or criticisms about FOOD SERVICE?
TYPESETTERS 
NEEDED!Off-campus 
Housing Aided
Please complete this application and return it to the TARTAN as soon as possible. If you have 
any questions feel free to call 578-2111 or leave a note in the TARTAN mailbox at the Skibo 
Information Desk.
NAME
ADDRESS ___________________________________________________________PHONE
by Stanley Ciesiak
Despite much adversity, the CMU 
Kiltie Marching Band is determined to 
entertain at the Tartan home football 
games this fall.
The newly organized group of 64 ener
getic musicians have been practicing twice 
a week since the labor day weekend. Under 
the direction of Warren Mercer, supervi
sor of music education and band director 
from the North Hills School District, the 
Kiltie Band has spent the majority of its 
precious rehearsal time (4 hours per week) 
trying to locate a suitable place to practice.
Normally, a marching band needs a 
lined football field on which to execute 
precision drills that comprise a half-tiifie 
show. Unfortunately, a lined practice field 
is not available on campus. The football 
and soccer teams consume the intramural 
field daily during the evening hours, and 
the cut and Fine Arts lawn are used by frisbee lovers, intramural football practices 
and girls field hockey. The question 
arises, what about Tech Field? It seems 
that high up authorities say that marching 
on Tech Field for four hours a week will 
ruin the appearance of the sed.
With nowhere else to go, the Kiltie 
Band was promised a lined football in the 
back of Central Catholic High School on
adequate practice space, instrument storage 
space, and would be coordinated through 
the Athletic Department. The only thing 
the band has been provided with is storage 
space and remnants of Kiltie uniforms. 
Despite the early problem, Lubon has hope 
that everything will work out fine. He 
states that our members are the cream of 
the crop and success will be achieved if 
a practice field is found.
Ironically, of the 64 bandsmen, trom
bonist Mike Abbott is the only music 
major. When asked how he felt about the 
reorganization of the band Abbot said, 
Its about time that theres something at 
CMU where non-music majors can particiin and enjoy music.
David Faller asserted, We have an 
excellent football program here at CMU 
all that we need now is more student 
support; and a marching band is a good99
Bruce Wilcox stated, Were having fun 
starting from scratch but I still think the 
will enjoy the show.
Sue Altmeyer said, Its about time we 
got the band back together. It will add 
excitement to the game.
Director Mercer, a 1958 graduate in 
music, stresses to the band members, 
Dont be discouraged with the present 
conditions. Hopefully, the situation will 
improve after our first performance. 
The first home football game and per
formance will be this Saturday, September 
23. The pre-game and half-time shows are 
quickly taking shape. The band members 
hope that their spirit will spread through
out the CMU community.
m>J3O->oJCa
WORK STUDY? __________________________________________TYPING SPEED
Have you ever used an IBM Selectric typewriter?______________________Composer?
Please list all the hours you are available each day. ALL typesetters will be asked to 
work 4 hours each weekend. Typesetters will be paid $3.00/hour.
MONDAY ________________________________________ TUESDAY_______________________________________
WEDNESDAY_____________________________________ THURSDAY____________________________________
FRIDAY __________________________________________ SATURDAY____________________________________
SUNDAY
Fifth Avenue. After a hike down Fifth 
Avenue last week, all that was to be found 
was a brown, dusty, unlined patch of 
dirt the size of a football field. Despite 
these pitiful conditions, the depressed,
yet determined Kilties marched on.
John Lubon (Senior Mech. H.), one of 
the students responsible for the reorga
nization of the Kiltie Marching Band, states 
that the band was to be provided with

---------------------------------------------------

September 19,1978TARTANpage 7
FEDERAL 
LOAN RECIPIENTS
All undergraduates who are receiving a 
National Direct Student Loan (NDSL). If you did 
not sign your promissory note during 
enrollment, please stop by the financial aid of
fice not later than October lf 1978 to sign for 
your loan. Failure to sign for your loan by that 
date will result in its being recinded for the en
tire academic year.
call the FOOD SERVICE DIRECTORS HOTLINE. X2127; Monday 5pm-6pm
News Postmaster Zips into Office
by Andrew L. Ragan
There are new mailboxes and new mail
ing addresses for many resident students 
at CMU this year, but these may have 
created new inconveniences for some; and 
the new CMU Postmaster is addressing and 
availing himself to the questions being 
raised.
His name is John Barbour, and he is a 
1976 graduate of the CMU English D.ept. 
who has advanced from his years as workstudy Morewood Desk attendant, to mail
carrier last year, and finally to his present 
position as Postmaster of CMUs Resident 
Community.
Since his installation as man-in-charge of 
the CMU Post last April, there have been 
a number of changes in the mail policies 
here.
Primarily, over 500 new combination 
mail boxes have been installed in the lobby 
of Donner Hall. These new boxes will 
serve the students residing at Donner, the 
Hill Dorms. Woodlawn, and Doherty.
With respect to the Doherty Apartments, 
whose residents must travel furthest to 
receive their mail, the new policy has 
created a surge of controversy with which 
to baptize the postal official. Previously, 
the mail there was delivered directly to 
each individual tower by the U.S. Postal 
Service, independant of CMUs own 
postal serivces. Consequently, the mail 
was often delivered earlier and was ob
viously more convenient than the present 
arrangement.
At a recent Dorm meeting of all 
Doherty towers, a petition was circulated 
among residents which stated the need for 
the return of last years boxes. According 
to Debbie Bloom, the person in charge of 
circulation of the petition, and Chris 
OConnor, the petitions author, the state
ment, (which is expected to receive over 
150 signatures from Doherty residents) 
will be presented to President Cyert, Dean
of Student Affairs Earl Swank, Postmaster 
Barbour, Housing Officials, and the head 
resident at Doherty, Dan Jones.
In addressing the problem, Postmaster 
Barbour explained that the new boxes at 
Donner are in fact an answer to former 
resident complaints at Doherty. These 
complaints dealt with the insecurity of 
mail being received there because of van
dalism to and theft from the U.S. Postal 
mail boxes previously used. In addition, a 
problem was created concerning campus 
mail. Since Doherty was under Oakland 
U.S. Postal jurisdiction, it was actually 
illegal for the campus office to use the 
boxes for their deliveries. As a result, stu
dents did not recieve campus mail or 
departments had to pay for delivery 
neither of which was satisfactory. Under 
th*' present arrangement, all mail is han
dled by CMUs Office. Donner was selected 
for placement of the new boxes because of 
its central location and because it will be 
under constant supervision.
There appears to have been some con
fusion concerning who was responsible for 
informing the students beforehand of their 
new mailing addresses, along with making 
certain that the Oakland post office was 
aware of the change. Most students at 
Doherty left their families and friends with 
their old addresses, and many have not yet 
changed. In addition, the postmen from 
Oakland were still delivering Doherty mail
to the old boxes a few days into the school 
year. After they were informed to forward 
mail to Donner, it appeared that no mail 
was being delivered at all.
Barbour stated that that situation is 
now under control and that the mail which 
was held up at the Oakland post office has 
been picked up and delivered. In the future 
all such mail will be forwarded to Donner.
The Postmaster was reluctant to name 
who may have been responsible for the 
mixup, although the Housing Office has 
in the past taken care of informing resi
dents of mailing addresses. To help allevi
ate future problems, Barbour has issued a 
memo to Doherty residents explaining the 
new policies and how to address corres
pondence.
Although he believes that students will 
become satisfied and comfortable with the 
new policies once they are running smooth
ly, and while emphasizing their safety, 
Barbour expects that the petition will 
have to be reviewed and acted upon by 
higher policy-makers than himself. The 
new young postmaster added that, as a 
recent student himself, he can identify 
readily with frustration students might face 
in dealing with problems here at CMU. 
With this in mind, he extends an invitation 
to all students who have problems or com
plaints (concerning his dept.) which he 
might help solve. See him at his (post) 
office or call at his extension: x-2928.

---------------------------------------------------

page 8TARTANSeptember 19,1978
Campus Construction Continues
by Linda Dickerson
Construction workers are busy in nume
rous locations on the CMU campus. Work 
continues on a new dorm facility and the 
GSIA annex, while the North Sides heat
ing and hot water systems are being re
vamped.
Located on Margaret Morrison St. con
tiguous to the Hill dorms, the new dorm is 
scheduled for completion before the next
fall term. It will house 200 students in 
a three level structure of apartment com
plexes.
Food service will not be available in the 
dorm, for a complete kitchen will be ins
talled in each apartment. Also included in 
the dorm will be recreation and utility 
facilities.
Another CMU construction site is the 
Graduate School of Industrial AdminisWork continues on the Margaret Morrison Street Apartments, scheduled for completion by Fall 
1979.
Ui iaPit
$
CAREERS
The Office of Career Services and 
Placement will present a seminar 
on What Makes a Successful In
terview?, to be held on Tuesday, 
September 26 at 7:30 PM in the 
Wherrett Room in Skibo.
Margaret Kennedy from Olin Cor
poration, Richard Hawkins from 
Koppers Co., and Richard Stevenson 
from The Procter & Gamble Com
pany will present their views regar
ding good interviewing techniques. 
Time will be available for 
discussion and questions. The 
program is open to the University 
community and all students are 
urged to attend.
tration, where workmen are building a 
9000 square foot addition. This annex will 
contain two large amphitheaters, as well as 
office and teaching space, when it opens 
in January of 1979.
Perhaps the most obvious construction 
executed on the premises involves the 
replacement of gas lines with steamlines for 
Morewood Gardens and the fraternity 
houses. In order to provide more reliable 
heating facilities, consulting engineers re
commended the use of steamlines.
Kushing Phillips, Physical Plant Direc
tor, maintained, We should be out of the 
mess (due to the steamlines) by early 
October. The inconvenience is necessary.
Comp Center Has 
New Director
The Computation Center has a new 
director. Dr. Thomas L. Boardman, Jr.. 
Boardman comes here from the University 
of Colorado where he was the Associate 
Director of the Computation Center. His 
position there involved responsibility for 
the technical portions of the Center in
cluding software and hardware develop
ment, user services, and billing.
Dr. Boardmans acceptance finished a 
national search for a new director for the 
Center. His background includes extensive 
programming and hardware development 
experience. His research interests are tele
communications hardware, microproces
sing, the design of digital systems, and 
computer graphics. He has a B.S. and M.S. 
in Mechanical Engineering and a Ph.D. in 
Computer Aided Design from Purdue.
While at Colorado, one of the projects 
Dr. Boardman directed was the develop
ment of a unified communications network 
to interconnect the computers on campus. 
He has also designed and built a number of 
digital logic devices including microproces
sor based systems.
1 


iIi
II

m^SSSSSSSSISSSSI^SISSSSS^SSSSSSSSSSSSlSsJ
Physics Prof 
Honored
by Robert Zusman
Dr. Lincoln Wolfenstein, Professor of 
Physics, was appointed a University Profes
sor as of July 1, 1978. Dr. Wolfenstein says 
that the appointment, the highest honor 
Carnegie-Mellon can bestow on a faculty 
member, hasnt changed my life at all. 
He isnt really sure what the title means ex
cept that it is an honor.
Dr. Wolfensteins field of research is 
theoretical elementary particle physics, 
which is concerned with the non-experimental investigation of what happens at 
the smallest level of things, particulary 
with new^particles that we keep discovering, 
and the way they interact among each 
other. A specialist in the field of weak in
teractions, he is probably best known for a 
theory he presented in 1964, postulating a 
new kind of interaction dubbed super-weak. 
This theory helped to explain how an ex
periment could be .sensitive to an interac
tion much weaker than anything previously 
observed on the elementary particle level.
At present he is teaching a graduate 
course in nuclear and particle physics. Last 
year he taught Concepts in Modern Physics, 
and a seminar in Astrophysics. Dr. Wolfen
stein said that he wants to revive a course 
entitled Science and Society, which he 
taught a number of years ago, and remark
ed, thats one of the things I am inter
ested inthis interface between science and 
whats going on in society.
Dr. Wolfenstein has been a member of 
the Carnegie-Mellon faculty for 30 years. 
Among other groups, he belongs to the 
Federation of American Scientists, which is 
concerned with political problems raised 
by Science. He did serve as the national 
secretary for a number of years. Dr. Wol
fenstein says that the Federation is prob
ably the leading organization which does 
lobbying on matters concerning the envir
onment, nuclear disarmament, and other 
science related issues.
Health Program Expanded
byAnneCesnik
This year, in an effort to better provide 
for CMU students preparing for a career in 
the medical professions, the Health Profes
sions Advisory Committee has been re
placed by the Health Professions Program. 
The former committee was comprised of 
faculty from several MIS departments who 
could not fully devote the necessary time 
to the pre-med students. For this reason 
the new program was instituted. The direc
tor of the program is Dr. Karolyn Eisenstein, a Senior Lecturer in the Chemistry 
department and Formerly Director of 
Academic Affairs for the Carnegie-Mellon 
Action Project. Members of the faculty of 
MIS, CIT and H&SS will act as advisors 
to Dr. Eisenstein on the progress of the 
students involved in the new Health Pro
fessions Program.
The Health Professions Program will 
offer academic advising and career counsel
ing for students aspiring to medical school 
or any of the allied health professions.
Dr. Eisensteins present plan for the 
program is to help students to develop 
multiple career opportunifier;. At present, 
CMU does not offer a pre-med or pre
dental program, rather students must work
medical school prerequisites into various 
majors in MIS, CIT and H&SS.
Another aspect of the program will 
be to assist students in finding summer 
jobs. Dr. Eisenstein feels it is a great asset 
for students to work in a health-related 
summer job, at least between the junior 
and senior years, so the student can get 
a feel for the language and the work of a 
health-related career. This will be a major 
goal of the program along with providing 
job opportunities during the school year 
through Med-X. Med-X is a program of 
the Pitt/Oakland YMCA and offers 
volunteer opportunities in area hospitals 
and laboratories to students pursuing a 
career in the health profession.
The offices of the Health Professions 
Program are located in Scaife Hall 119. 
The outer office will be a resource center 
open to all students interested in a healthrelated career. This office will contain 
current medical journals and information 
on graduate school application and career 
opportunities. Although the ' resource 
center is not totally complete. Dr. Eisen
stein urges students interested in the health 
pro .iui. in contact ..< so she cait onrni/.e a mailing list to keep the students 
informed.
CALL 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

iiaoiOTcc
[I ALWAYS
FEATURES
study hints
Speed reading is no hoax
a good tip
Free grad services for minorities
by Jean Frankenberg
It youre tired of spending six hours a 
night preparing for your English litera
ture course, or wish you could get through 
your chem text faster, take heart. It may 
be possible!
For the next seven weeks there will be 
an Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics course 
offered on campus. It will meet weekly 
on Tuesday from 6:30-9:30 PM. If you 
are willing to come to class and practice 
your new reading skills for an hour a day, 
you may triple your reading speed.
How can one teacher accomplish that 
much in twenty-one hours? By teaching 
his students how to approach the particular 
kind of literature theyre reading, getting 
people actively involved with whatever it is 
they happen to be reading, and showing 
the class members how to read line by line 
instead of word for word.
After talking with Rob Green, a senior 
architect who works for the Evelyn Wood 
company, I am convinced that the course 
is not a hoax. Evelyn Wood taught herself 
to speed read, and somewhere along the 
line Im sure she realized that teaching 
people what she knew was a service for 
which others were willing to pay. The firm 
has been in business since 1959 and lias 
had over 1 million students. They also 
offer a money back guarantee for the 
course.
But I was most convinced of the courses 
validity when Rob told me that the real 
secret to speed reading is breaking the bad 
reading habits we were taught in elemen
tary school. And since the primary skill 
involved is learning to read using your 
finger as a pace setter, its possible to con
trol the tempo of your eyes by slowing 
down your hand. The other important fact 
to know is that once you learn how to 
speed read you wont loose the skill, 
although it can get rusty through lack of 
practice.
Rob will be teaching the free mini les
sons offered each day this week at 11:30 
AM in Science Hall 5320 and at 6:30 PM 
in Science Hall 5316. He will answer ques
tions and explain what the program has to 
offer.
Many minority students entering their 
junior or senior years of college, or already 
possessing their undergraduate degrees, 
may be thinking about continuing their 
education in graduate school.
If so, Educational Testing Service (ETS)
getting started
Get out there and vote!
After scheduling classes and buying 
books, college students should take a few 
minutes to register to vote.
Thats the advice of Commonwealth 
Secretary Barton A. Fields who says,Col
lege students are often particularly well - 
informed on the issues of the day, but 
they seem to neglect their right to vote.
Political decisions affect many areas of 
a students life such as the tuition rate at 
state-supported and state-related colleges 
and universities, and the amount of state 
scholarship money available. It seems to 
me that college students should take an in
terest in choosing the office-holders whose 
decisions will directly affect their lives.
For those potential voters who are un
sure of how to register and vote, the De
partment of State offers the following 
short course in voter education.
1. Do I register where I live or where I go 
to school?
You may register either as an elector of 
the county in which you live or you may 
register as an elector of the county in 
which you attend school. The choice is up 
to you.
2. How do I register?
Register by appearing in person at the 
appropriate county courthouse or, more 
simply, by obtaining and filling out a voter 
registration by mail form. Many college 
bookstores and student unions will have 
forms available. Forms can also be obtain
ed at various public places such as libraries, 
post offices, courthouses and state stores. 
Mail registration forms are pre-addressed 
and postage-paid.
3. Is there a deadline for voter registration?
In order to vote in the November 7 
Election, you must register by Tuesday, Oc
tober 10. Persons who will be 18 on or be
fore November 8 are eligible to register.
4. Can I vote by absentee ballot?
If you will be out of the county where 
you are registered on Election Day, Tues
day, November 7, you may request an ab
sentee ballot either by appearing in person 
at the appropriate county courthouse or by 
mailing a signed request for an absentee 
ballot to the courthouse. You may apply 
for an absentee ballot between September
18 and October 31. When your application 
is approved, the county will mail your ab
sentee ballot to you.
5. Who will be up for election this Novem
ber?
On Tuesday, November 7, Pennsylvan
ians will elect a governor and lieutenant 
governor, all representatives to Congress, 
all representatives to the State House, and 
the twenty-five State Senators from even 
numbered districts.
Further information is available from 
your county courthouse or from the Bur
eau of Elections, Room 304 North Office 
Building, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania 17120.
and the Graduate Record Examinations 
Board can help identify opportunities for 
advanced study.
Through the Minority Graduate Student 
Locater Service, developed by ETS and of
fered by the GRE Board, college juniors, 
seniors and graduates who are members of 
racial and ethnic minorities in the United 
States can make their intentions known to 
graduate schools seeking such applicants. 
There is no cost to students for this service
Students sign up by completing the reg
istration form contained in the GRE/ 
MGSLS Information Bulletin. It is the 
same form used to register for the Gradu
ate Record Examinations. The GRE are 
comprehensive aptitude and advanced tests 
used in the admissions process by many of 
the nations graduate schools. Students 
need not take the GRE to use the Locater 
Service.
The Information Bulletin explains what 
students must know to participate in the 
service. Copies of the Bulletin can be ob 
tained at most colleges or by writing to 
MGSLS, Box 2615, Princeton, NJ. 08541
To take part in the Locater Service, stu 
dents describe themselves by answering a 
series of questions on the registration form 
that ask for ethnic background, undergrad 
uate major, intended graduate major and 
other information about educational exper 
ience and objectives. This information is 
placed in the Locater Service file and made 
available upon request to participating 
graduate schools. GRE scores are not in 
eluded in the Locater Service file.
Each graduate school establishes its own 
criteria for identifying students from the 
Locater Service file based on ethnic back
ground, expected major field of study, de 
gree objective and state of residence. Stu
dents who use the Locater Service and 
meet the criteria set by a particular school 
continued on page 12
the traveller
Flight headaches reduced by 
University's travel service
by Danni Smith
CMU students, with all their exotic 
fraternity parties, innovative computer 
printouts and bathroom graffiti, get 
down to basics when the time comes to 
travel.
The World-Wise Travel agency, locat
ed in Skibo, room 40A, provides travel ser
vices to suit CMU clientel. Weve been 
here twenty-one years now and go out of 
our way to find cheaper travel fares for 
students and faculty of CMU, states travel 
agent Dave Hoelzeman. Hoelzeman and 
Albert M. Huber are the universitys agents 
who work enthusiastically and earnestly enough to know what type of services this 
campus likes.
For example, a campus secretary called 
Hoelzeman to make reservations for her 
boss. Being new, she didnt know that her 
boss liked to change flights as little as pos
sible when en route. Hoelzeman adds, Ive 
worked here long enough to know various 
personal travel needs and preferences of 
certain staff members.
He suggests that students make plans for 
lHe Thanksgiving holiday as soon as possi
ble. Thanksgiving is one of the busiest 
times of the year, arid seats are already be
ing booked on air flights. When a student 
travels during the Thanksgiving holiday, he
likes to save time because there are only 
four days in which to get there. He should 
also think about saving money.
For those travelling to New York City 
and Chicago, a Super Coach fare is avail
able. It costs $69, round trip, if one de
parts Wednesday and returns Sunday.
For bigger spenders, there is an OffPeak Excursion fare which gives a 20-40% 
discount on all flights except those sched
uled between 7:00 AM to 9:30 AM and 
2:00 PM to 8:30 PM. The purpose of this 
discount is to fill up the seats not taken by 
businessmen.
Those wishing to travel during the week 
may fly, for example, round-trip to New 
York City for as little as $64, as compared 
to the $74 weekend rate. The regular 
round-trip price is $106. You may visit the 
Windy City for as little as S74 
during the week, and $86 on weekends. 
This is much less than the regular price of 
S122.
Flying sure beats the headaches of bus 
and auto travel, so why not visit the CMU 
travel agency and make those holiday re
servations early? Its much more conveni
ent than trudging to the Oakland travel of
fice. The World-Wise Travel office is 
open Monday through Friday from 1:00 
PM to 5:00 PM, and their extension on 
campus is 2921.
OUR NJLXT STOfS Afte I hi 
COUJnMWs, CINCINNATI, CIBME
LAiOD.wPfOrt,'

---------------------------------------------------

page 10TARTANSeptember 19,1978
One of the unsung hemes of our rime is 
Jean Adams, autlioi oi icentorum in the 
Pittsburgh Press and other newspapers that 
syndicate her column. Ms. Adams ranks 
right up there with the greats of teendom: 
Kristy McNichol, Henry Winkler (or was 
he last season?), Andy Gibb. Her influence 
over 12 to 16-year olds is considerable; its 
time to give Ms. Adams her due
A vivacious brown-haired pixie, accord
ing to her photo, Jean looks like she could 
have been Donna Reeds daughter. And if 
you, as a scrawny prepubescent, were 
lucky enough to have had Jean as an older 
sister, she no doubt would have let you try 
on her Peach Passion lipstick, parade around in her party pumps, and maybe even 
try on her brassiereunless you were her 
younger brother, of course. (Not a bit of 
perversion in this all-American girl.) In that 
case, she would have spent time with you 
on your stamp collection and reassured 
you periodically that Yes, some day you 
would grow up to be as handsome as Dad.
But Jean belongs to the seventies, with 
Kristy and Henry and Andy and the rest, even though her bouffant do and bangs 
may suggest otherwise. Jean is everyones 
big sister in print, and she deals with teens 
md preteens now; kids with now problems, 
vith now feelings, with now heartaches.
But this is not the first time.a deserv
ing person has been denied his or her own 
poster, and it probably wont be the last 
time. There is a special treat, however, 
coming up: on Wednesday, September 27, 
Jean will be in town with Amanda Blake 
(from Gun smoke) to speak to 10th, 11th, 
and 12th graders on the evils of cigarettes. 
Interested fans should check a newspaper 
to find out which schools she will visit. 
Until we can hang Jean Adams, well have 
:o settle for reading her in the Press or
seeing her in person.
Take Depressed, for example, a girl of
14 who is unhappy because her friend Ter
ris brother, Lloyd, always starts fightsand Terris and Lloyds mother always 
sides with Lloyd and blames Terri for 
thing. Well, the upshot of all this is that 
Lloyd recently started one of his fights, 
Terri got blamed for it, and now Terri isnt 
allowed to come over to Depresseds house.
And Terri and Depressed are best friends. 
A sad situation.
Or take the girl who signed herself 
Part-time Girl Friend. Shes in love with 
George, who is going out with Pattyex
cept during the summer when Patty is away; then George visits PTGF everyday 
and once even called her a sweet sexy 
thing. What to do, what to do?
Jean knows, thank goodness. Depressed 
should ask her friend (via telephone) to 
speak with her mother about being allowed 
to resume the friendship. Part-time Girl 
Friend should find herself someone else, 
someone who wont use her like a flash
light during a power failure. Sensible ad
vice, and teens continue to write in with 
their problems. Why, then, is Jean not im
mortalized on a poster or a t-shirt?
Perhaps posters and t-shirts come later. 
First, why isnt she as famous as her col
leagues, Ann Landers and Abigail van Buren? Jeans advice and suggestions are more 
often on target than Anns and Abbys;- 
and Jeans fans read her as avidly as the 
two sisters fans read them. In addition, 
Jean serves a more important role in socie
ty by helping teens who still may grow up
capable of solving most of their own prob
lems; instead of helping adults who are in 
the sorry position of not knowing who to 
invite to a second wedding or how to deal 
with a smelly co-worker.
xTTw
Washington
by Frederic J. Siegel
Classified as the Hills equal to Water
gate, the South Korean Influence-Buying 
investigation has been for the last two 
years another chapter in the continuing 
saga of how money and abuse remain en
demic parts of the Washington scence.
The body responsible for the Korean 
Investigation has been the Committee on 
Standards of Official Conduct, led by 
chairman John Flynt (D-Ga.) Other mem
bers include Olin Teague (D-Tx.), Richard
son Preyer (D- N.C.), Walter Flowers (DAla.), Millicent Fenwicke -(R-N.J.) and 
freshman Bruce Caputo (R-N.Y.)
The Justice Department indicment 
against Park for his alleged activities from 
1967 to 1975 contains counts of conspir
acy to defraud the United Stated, bribery, 
offering an illegal gratuity, mail fraud , 
racketeering, failing to register as a foreign 
agent, and making an unlawful political 
contribution as a foreign agent.
On December 30, 1977, the Department 
of Justice announced an agreement reached 
with the South Korean Government to ob
tain Parks testimony in exchange for a 
grant of immunity from prosecution for 
Park. Under this deal, Park could only be 
prosecuted for perjury during testimony. 
Questioning of Park by the Justice Dept, 
began on January 13, 1978 in Seoul,Korea 
and continued for 17 days. Park returned 
to the United States on February26, 1978 
to provide testimony for the House and 
Senate committees investigating the Kor
ean influence matter and to testify in the 
Justice Dept.s prosecution of former Reppresentative Richard T. Hanna.
Known for many years as a Paper Tiger 
committee, the current members are at tempting to initiate a tiiorough investiga
tion of the Korean Influence-Buying 
scandal. This involved the Department of 
Justice and several congressional commit
tees investigating allegations concerning 
attempted influence-purchasing activities 
directed at members of Congress by indivi
duals with suspected ties to the government 
of South Korea.
Richard Nixon, the late Senator Hubert 
Humphery, Gerald Ford, Thomas ONeill, 
Morris Udall and Daniel Flood are familiar 
names that have been mentioned in rela
tion to this scandal.
As of September 1, 1978 the Dept, of 
Justice has obtained four indictments 
and one guilty plea concerning the activi
ties of individuals in the Korean lobbying 
investigation. The initial indictment which 
led to these allegations was obtained by the 
Justice Department on August 26,1977 
against Park Tong Sun (Tongsun Park), a 
Korean businessman, a middleman in Un
ited States rice sales to the Republic of 
Korea. The indictment, which has yet fail
ed to be fully substantiated, charged that 
Park paricipated in a scheme to derive large 
commissions from the sale of United 
States rice to Korea, then to turn substant
ial portions of that profit into an influencebuying scheme directed primarily at Con
gress. Certain former and shocking num
bers of present members of Congress were 
named in the indictment as having been re
cipients of money and gifts from Tongsun 
Park.
Next week's column will reveal the be
hind the scenes events of Parks testimony 
and include the complete list of the 34 
congressmen who received amount: of 
$100.00 to $500,000 in cash and gifts 
from Park.
CMU LAW CLUB1
First Meeting 
Tuesday Sept. 26 
7:00 Rm 11 Skibo 
All interested invited to attend

---------------------------------------------------

September 19,1978TARTAN-page II
For freshmen only!
Visit Info Desk for action
by Tom Wood
Feeling lost? Confused? Wondering why 
everyone around you seems to know where 
they are going, while you are eternally 
trying to figure out which exit in Skibo 
you should use to get back to the dorm: 
If this state of mind is not due to psycho
logical problems, then perhaps you should 
visit the Skibo Information Desk.
The Information Desk, which is open 
from 3:00 AM to midnight on weekdays 
and from noon to midnight on week
ends, serves as the focal point for infor
mation on campus. The Desk also provides 
services ranging from the distribution of 
the TARTAN and the Campus Calendar, 
a Lost and Found, to the dispensing of 
chess sets and pool cues.
The Desk is manned by students as part 
of the Work Study Program. David 
Mongeau, who is now starting his third 
year at the Desk, commented Its a fun 
place to work. Apparently, a large 
number of requests, especially over the 
phone, are for campus phone numbers. 
When school started ... Ill bet that 
phone rang at least one hundred times, 
just for directory information, Dave said.
At times, the Desk can be a very hectic 
place. But even when the room is jammed 
with people, Dave said, its still an 
efficient office.
Jeff Macartney, on the other hand, is 
a newcomer to the Desk. Jeff, a sophmore, 
staffed the Desk on the 6 to 12 PM shift on 
Wednesday night. He grouped the requests 
for information into two classes, during the 
week many people are seeking room 
numbers and centrex extensions, but as the 
weekend approaches, the predominant 
query is for when the next showing of the 
next movie will take place. You can 
answer the phone by saying 6, 8:30, and 
11 instead of hello.
Working at the Desk, one runs into a 
large number of interesting people. Its
different, Jeff concluded. Occasionally, 
some people get upset when you dont 
know the answer to a question.
The Desk and accompanying offices 
are coordinated by Anne Witchner, Direc
tor of Students Activities. If anything is 
happening in Pittsburgh, this is the place 
to go, she said.
Mrs. Mary Jo Rudman serves as the 
general overseer of the Desk, in addition tp 
having hired all of the desk workers. 
If the Desk is ever stumped by a question, 
she can usually help out. Mrs. Rudman 
mentioned other services that the Desk 
performs. The Desk serves as a place for 
the distribution and sale of concert tickets 
and bus permits, she said, and for tickets 
to some off-campus functions. These 
functions stretch from Penguin hockey 
games to chamber music, and are in general 
anything that will benefit the students.
Freshman Weekend is over and the memories (and T-shirts) are all that remain. 330 Freshman 
and over 50 staffers and faculty members had a terrific Labor Day Weekend and a reunion has 
been scheduled for early November.
Even though almost all of the Freshmen returning from the Weekend agreed completely with the 
sentiments on their T-shirts (see human being on right), it would appear that some found the Week
end was just Terrible (see alien on left). Actually, enterprising upperclassmen silk-screened the 
"Terrible" T-shirts. They had a bad case of sour-grapes because they couldn't go on the Weekend. 
(Silly upperclassmen! Freshman Weekend is for kids!)
GSIA holds unusal race
by Jeffrey T. Fisher
No one I interviewed around campus 
knew about the Great Strides for the 
Inept and Aged' race that the Graduate 
School for Industrial Administration held 
here on September 9. But from the com
motion inside the GSIA lobby, it seemed 
seemed like an important event.
Graduate students and faculty started 
shuffling out the doors towards Frew 
Street and lined up for the race. I asked 
people what their expectations were for 
the event.
The facultys going to win, said 
Trudy Alcott, a student in the race.
Oh, the First Year are gonna kick ass, 
said another student whose name I wont 
mention.
A gun sounded and the most eager fu
ture administrators got off to a good start
followed by the others caught at the back 
of the assembly. I didnt follow along for 
comments.
It was a full seventeen minutes before 
the first contestant came charging in. It 
happened to be a Duquesne student who 
came along for the fun. Embarrassment 
aside, the next three runners were Rick 
Schultz, a faculty member, Kevin Keller, 
a first year student, and Dan Santoski, also 
a first year student. The rest of the runners 
came along in good time and the race officialspronounced the second year students 
first among fourteen racers. Faculty 
came in second, first year students third, 
and the hearty PhD. students last.
What was the meaning of the race for 
you?. I asked a panting student.
Beating my teacher, he said.
Rick Staelin, the faculty member who 
started the event also responded to my
Campus overflows with fresh women
by Doug Kirsop
Hey, have you heard that there are on
ly two hundred freshman women on cam
pus?
I heard that there are five guys to ev
ery girl.
One can hear conversations like this go
ing on all over campus, and especially be
tween distraught freshman men. But fear 
not you affection-starved men, for a TAR
TAN conversation with Dr. William Elliott, 
Vice Provost for Enrollment Planning, 
revealed that theses are only nasty rumors.
408 is a far cry from 200, and there are 
indeed 408 new women on campus. These 
freshmen and transfer women constitute 
one third of this group of students.
Statistically, CIT has the smallest per
centage of women, as 18% of the 472 new 
students are women. Next in line is the 
Mellon Institute of Science, where 53, or 
27% of the 193 students are female. The 
smallest number of women can be found in 
the college of Administrative Management 
Science, as there are only 24 women in this 
college, which has a total new student en
rollment of 86 students, thus being 28% 
female. Women comprise 46% of the col
lege of Humanities and Social Sciences, or 
71 of the 153 newcomers. And yes, there 
are more new women than men in the Col
lege of Fine Arts. 173, or 51% of the new 
students enrolled in CFA are women.
For those of you who have already which one third, or 408 are women, 
worn out your calculator batteries, that So guys, if you dont have a date, dont 
comes to a total of 1246 new students, of blame a rumor.
question and came closest to my impres
sion of the cross-country race. Good feel
ings, he said. A way to spill our guts out 
and meet each other.
Indeed, donning Great Strides for the 
Inept and Aged tee shirts that they re
ceived for the race, the exhausted but hap
py students and faculty went into the lob 
by again for a round of beer. I went along this time.
Words of wisdom
by Jean Frankenberg
Upperclassmen are usually tickled pink 
to be asked advice by those just entering 
the college scene. When they were fresh
men, they probably wished that they had 
the foresight to do or not do things that 
popped up in that memorable year. The 
following advice was generously donated 
by the mentioned upperclassmen.
Relax. Steve McConnel
Dont let yourself be squeezed into 
a mold. Jeri Weidner
Check out clubs and get to know an 
upperclassman, preferably your RA.
Ellen Zoll
Dont go back home to visit yet, and 
learn your calculus! Elaine Chu
To CIT/MIS students-leam physics 
and understand how to derive stuff and 
where it comes from. Then youll under
stand and be able to do your design pro
jects in the last 2 years. Steve Thomas 
Keep up with the pace as best as 
possibleyoull have to study here even if 
you didnt in high school.
Sue Razulus
Dont let the social life overwhelm you 
at the beginning. Establish your routines 
as soon as possible or youll never get 
anything done.
Linda Stuckrath 
Dont get caught feeling that you 
have to be a success.
Venetia Thomas 
If you do get behind, dont panic 
because everyone else does too.
Jean Frankenberg 
Dont fall for lines at a frat party.
Diana Hulik
Beware of Skibos nine-inch pizzas 
and keep away from Veal' Scallopini.
Pat Smith
Buy a pair of cleated boots to stay 
upright on those icy sidewalks.
Herman Goletz

---------------------------------------------------

page 12-TARTAN-September 19,1978
LESLIE DRESBOLD
TYPEWRITER
STORES
Grad services offered
continued from page 9
will have their names automatically sub
mitted to that school.
Students who want to make informa
tion available to graduate schools three 
times during the adademic year must have 
their registration forms in by September 
22. A student who misses that deadline and 
has the form in by November 6 will be able 
to participate twice. Graduate schools will 
correspond with those students in whom 
they are interested to inform them of the 
procedures to follow in applying for admis
sion.
Because of the interest among graduate 
schools throughout the nation in attracting 
qualified minority students, it is likely 
that a students name will be sent to a 
number of institutions. Because a graduate 
school may not wish to contact all students 
whose names it receives, students are not 
informed of the identity of those institu
tions to which their names have been for
warded.
The Locater Service is not an applica
tion to graduate school or for financial as
sistance and does not constitute a guaran* 
tee of admission or financial aid. It is de
signed only to supplement a students own 
efforts to locate and seek admission to a 
suitable graduate program and to find re
sources for financial assistance.
Information students supply for the Lo
cater Service file is treated confidentially 
and is released only to participating gradu
ate schools and scholarship programs.
Last year, more than 21,000 students 
made use of the Locater Service, and stu
dent information was provided to more 
than 120 graduate schools around the coun
try.
The GRE and the MGSLS are adminis
tered by ETS under policies determined by 
the GRE Board, an independent board af
filiated with the Association of Graduate 
Schools and the Council of Graduate 
Schools in the United States.
What is a Clamato?
Worship Conducted by: Rabbi Joseph H. Levine, Hillel Director 
Assisted by: Mr. Steven Kaplan, graduate student, Hebrew 
University and B nai B'rith Hillel Students 
Torah Reader: Stuart Levine
All services will be held in the auditorium of the Oakland Jewish 
Community Center which is located at 315 S. Bellefield Ave. 
(opposite Heinz Chapel)
Students are welcome to make arrangements through the Hillel Office 
for Holyday dinners, break-the-fast and home hospitality.
Please call 621-8875.
Bnai B'rith Hillel is a Beneficiary of the United Jewish Federation of Greater Pittsburgh
HEWLETT-PACKARD INTRODUCES PROFESSIONAL SCIENTIFIC CALCULATORS FOR A STUDENT'S DUDGET.
The Hewlett-Packard SERIES #E introduces 
a new level of accuracy. Larger, Brighter, 
Easy-to-Read LED displays, commas 
separate thousands ... built-in diagnostic 
systems tell you when you have performd 
an incorrect operation. . .why it was in
correct. . . and if the calculator is not 
working properly. . .rechargeable bat
teries. . .low battery warning light.
THE H-P 31E 
SCIENCE/ENGINEERING
Trigonometric, exponential and 
math functions. Metric con
versions. Fixed and scientific 
display modes. Full 10-digit 
display. 4 separate user 
memories.
See the MEW Complete "Serles E" at iOO 
:esOie DresboOd Stores . . The Factory 
iuthorized HewOett-Packard DeaOer
What is a Clamato? Where is it found? 
Does it grow? Who invented it? Do you 
eat it, drink it, pickle it? Where do you 
buy it, in a hardware store, a supermarket, 
an apothecary shop? Is it sexy?
This unusual research challenge has been 
nurled at Americas college students by 
a company that has an absolute interest in 
finding the most intriguing and humorous 
definition of a Clamato, whatever it is.
Mr. Ray Anrig, president of the DuffyMott Company, announces that $1,000 
will be rewarded to the college student 
creating the best description of the hybrid. 
Five hundred additional clams (hint, hint) 
will go to a runner-up and $250 will be 
awarded to the person whose response is 
chosen third best.
A panel of famous judges will select 
the winners, according to Mr. Anrig, who 
said the competition will start on May 1, 
and will end on November 3, 1978.
The contest is open to any current full
time college student in the United States.
The answer to What is a Clamato?, 
can be submitted in the form of an 
article, short story, fable, a painting, 
cartoon, jingle, photograph or sculpture,
or any other means a student may employ. 
Contestants may enter as many times as 
they wish and no proof of purchase is 
necessary.
All entries should be sent to:
What is a Clamato Contest 
17th Floor
1212 Avenue of the Americas 
New York, NY 10036 
All entries and ideas cannot be returned 
and will become the property of the DuffyMott Company. Decisions of the judges 
will be final. Be sure to provide your name 
and address as well as the name of your 
college or university with your entry.
News in the 
making?
Call the number
HIGH HOLY DAY SERVICES 5739-1978
BNAI BRITH HILLEL-JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
Students and Faculty and their Families with Small Children 
from All the Pittsburgh Area Campuses Are Welcome
ROSH HASHANAH
Sunday October 1 8:00 n.m.
Monday October 2 10:00 a.m.
Tuesday October 3 10:00 a.m.
(Kiddush following Morning Services)
YOM KIPPUR
Tuesday October 10 KOL NIDRE 7:00 p.m.
Wednesday October 11 Morning Worship 10:00 a.m.
Afternoon Worship - Neilah - Sounding of Shofar
WANTED.
Courageous people to work for no pay. Frequently the hours and 
conditions are inconvenient or difficult. Occasionally even dan
gerous. No reward, beyond the gratitude of the people you help. 
Apply at your local Red Cross Chapter.
Our Nearest Store Is onOy 2 BOocks from the Campus 422 So. Craig 
St.. Forbes i Craig.. near Papa Joes
Stores in Sharpsburg, Downtown, Monroeville Mall, North Hills 
Village, South Hills Village  Monroeville and South Hills Open 
Sunday 12 to 5.
DIAL 781-1308 for further Information

---------------------------------------------------

September 19,1978TARTANpage 13
CMU student joins Ice Capades
by Linda Rian
Did you ever stop and wonder what 
makes people sweat through four years of 
college when they could be out working, 
earning money and living in a room bigger 
than a 10 x 12 cubicle ? (Weighing the op
portunity costs as my Economics professor 
would say.) Two years ago a student here 
asked himself that question and decided he 
felt too restricted at CMU; that this was 
not the place for him, so he quit school. 
That student was Michael ORourke.
Michael is now a performing member of 
the Ice Capades, which will be at the 
Civic Arena from September 1424th. 
Before you get any notions of quitting 
school and joining up though, rest assured 
that the jump from school to show biz is 
not as easy as it may sound here. Michael 
has been skating for nearly ten years; he 
started taking figure skating lessons at age 
11. He trained for four years at Lake Placid, 
N.Y., the site of the 1980 Winter Olympics. 
He worked his way up through the ranks of 
skating and is now a United States Figure 
Skating Association Gold Medalist. This 
title is automatically bestowed upon a per
son after he has passed the 8th test (the 
highest levety in figure and free skating.
There are nine tests in skating, one pre
liminary test and eight levels. These are 
roughly equivalent to the different levels 
in karate, as denoted by the color of ones 
belt. Each test takes approximately one 
years worth of work to train and prepare 
for. The figure skating portion of the test 
involves-satisfactory performance of com
pulsory figures that are dictated by the 
judges. The free skating portion is'a fiveminute routine that the skater or his coach 
choreographs. There are certain require
ments at each level of skating that involve 
various spins, jumps and turns.
During his year off between school and 
the Ice Capades, Michael taught skating in 
Columbia, MD., where he choreographed 
an entire show for the Columbia Figure 
Skating Club. While he was there, he 
auditioned for the Ice Capades in January 
at the suggestion of a friend. The Ice 
Capades called him in August to offer him 
a job. He is one of the 6 new people in the 
show this year, which is quite an impres
sive accomplishment; approximately 350 
people auditioned for the Ice Capades last 
year and only six were chosen. The new 
people begin skating in the corps de 
ballet, something like being in the chorus 
of a stage production. Anyone in the show 
can audition for an understudy part 
though, so if one of the principle skaters is 
sick, he will get to fill in for their solo 
number.
Although traveling with the Ice Capades 
is fun and exciting, the rules governing the 
skaters are very strict; especially concern
ing the costumes, since they are very ex
pensive and extremely elaborate. There are 
also strict weight restrictions for each 
person. Even after the show is set, re
hearsals take an average of six hours per 
week. If a number starts to look tired or 
too automatic, a rehearsal will be called
to work on the number; to pick it up and 
put excitement back into it. Each time the 
show goes to a different city, the cast 
must rehearse the show to adjust to any 
changes in the size of the skating surface or 
in the fize of the arena in which they are 
performing.
The Ice Capades are performing in a 
total of 26 cities in the United States and 
Canada over a period of 10 months. Some 
of the highlights of the tour include 
Toronto, Montreal, Boston, New York, 
Atlanta, Washington, D.C. (Michaels home 
town), Chicago, Denver, Salt Lake City, 
and Los Angeles. Although some people 
may find living on the road tedious,
Michael feels that the excitement of going 
from one town to another and seeing dif
ferent parts of the country more than com
pensates for it. He is thrilled to be able to 
entertain people, and indeed the Ice 
Capades is entertainment at a very basic 
level. Since the show is live, the performers 
can see instantly the audiences reaction to 
their performance. An enthusiastic audi
ence can communicate their approval to 
the performers, which in turn makes it 
more exciting for them to be doing a good 
show. Because they travel around to nu
merous cities, they reach larger numbers of 
people than a stage show that remains sta
tionary in only one city.
The numbers in the show this year
include Celestial Voyage; Whiz City, 
a number geared towards the children in 
the audience; Disco Fantasy, a disco 
dance on ice; an Israeli number; Winter 
Wishes, a young girls fantasy of becom
ing queen of the winter carnival; and the fi
nale, '''StarStruck. The sets, costumes and 
lighting for all of the numbers is outstand
ing, not to mention the phenomenal abil
ity of the skaters themselves.
There are shows at the Civic Arena 
nightly at 8 PM Tuesday through Friday 
with two shows on Saturday at 2 PM and 
8 PM and two shows on Sunday at 2 PM 
and 6 PM. Admission ranges from $4 to 
$7. Call the box office at 471-1312 for 
further information.
MENT ROSE
Ive got Pabst Blue Ribbon on my mind!
PABST BREWING COMPANY.
Milwaukee Peoria Heights, Newark. Los Angeles. Pabst Georgia

---------------------------------------------------

ROTC OPEN HOUSE 
TODAY
COME IN AND MEET SOME 
FRIENDS 
FREE REFRESHMENTS
12:00-6:00 PM SEPTEMBER 19, 1978
LEVEL B IN MARGARET MORRISON 
MILITARY SCIENCE DEPT.
TODAY 
OPEN HOUSEROTC
Karen Yaksich 
wins scholarship
Karen Ann Yaksich, of Jackson, NJ, a 
deans list student at Carnegie-Mellon University, has been named winner of the 
first scholarship award to be made by the 
Jersey Shore Public Relations Association 
(JSPRA), Richard C. Devine, scholarship 
chairman, announced today.The JSPRA scholarship award is made 
for the singular purpose of providing finan
cial assistance to the student seeking a ca
reer in the fields of journalism, public re
lations, advertising, or radio or television 
broadcasting.
Karen is a junior, studying journalism 
and art in preparation for a career in 
either or both of those fields. She is
currently the TARTANs Folio editor and also writes for FOCUS, the faculty 
paper.
TARTN
Staffers
Doit
All
Weekend! 
Stop by 
Skfbo 50Am bar Paul, Akash Paul, Willem Laan, Keith Stafford and Paul Green stein find that one way of 
getting to the top at CMU is to climb a high hill. Actually, the fearless five found the Cut's dirt 
mounds an excllent solution to Friday night rowdiness.
..................................................................1
photo by Ramanan

---------------------------------------------------

SEPTEMBER 19, 1978/VOLUME lll/ISSUE 2 
A MODERN EPIC

---------------------------------------------------

page 16-TARTAN-September 19,1978
(AModern Spie
by Joan Marie Janis and Karen Ann Yaksich
She pursed her violet lips and whispered 
"I have come for thee-follow behind!"
(a candle clutched in her satin clasp).
It was thus she led me deeper into 
the obscurely twisted turnings 
of our fevered imaginations.
"Happiness lies about; reach out--taste!" 
but striving, I could only touch 
cobsebs in the darkness, 
as I chased the gentle light-flickering sun 
of wax and string.
In a crystical-cased'distance, I saw 
gossamer-feathered doves, 
which rested on her silken shoulders, 
but scattered at my presence.
So I, Votary of darkness 
made a friend of fear
while seeking the obvious truth in my head.
TARTAN FOLIO
SEPTEMBER 19,1978/VOLUME lll/ISSUE 2 
A MODERN EPIC
EDITOR: K.A. YAKSICH 
ASSISTANT EDITOR: FRED LA POINTE 
ART DIRECTOR: LISA AMOWITZ
CONTRIBUTING ARTISTS:
JOAN MARIE JANIS 
PHYLLIS WRIGHT
COVER DESIGN: KAREN ANN YAKSICH
I wondered on the importance of her self-affirmed
urgent mission.
Her hair, far below her waist,
did stream in frigid black rivulets,
and her eyes held a glow unlike that of my
native world.
Although I considered her being a threat to my own, 
Her subterrestrial images led me on, 
mocking my very will.
At each turn, I faltered, trembling,
then hurried ahead, reaching out.
I could feel, smokelike, her silver raiments, 
but her visionaries tantalized me beyond my
fingertips.
Quite suddenly she stopped-- 
turning to me in tacit disapproval...
Looking about, I saw a form - 
Vague, powdering the darkness behind me 
with moon-dark glow and glitter-stars.
I cried, "Stop suffocating me this way!"
Falling forward, I mixed my tears with the gloom 
and dimness of her candle.
We were in conflict now;
I saw her raise her hand,
(menacing? threatening? I could not tell)
Held aloft, a single link 
in the chain she would have me wear forever, 
if only I would bow.
Refusing, I trod on a glistening orb, 
and fell at her feet.
She condescended not She would not follow me, 
neither to felicity, nor to tomb.
In history, years she had thrived somehow 
and would allow me naught but enslavage.
My will broken, I rose and continued behind, 
beseeching her to stop shredding 
my already worn-out spirit.
In a moment, as if at an unspoken command 
From a higher post, she paused.
I saw vengeance in the depth of her very eyes 
With dark pin pricks piercing my limited sense
of being.
I held fast to the hand in mineI hadn't noticed the figure slipped to my side. 
Glancing fr' Se her malevolent eyes, I 
perceived beside me
a friend,
who had, in time of mutual depression, 
buoyed my spirits; 
but I eyed him with something I tried to suppress - 
Di st rust;
There was something unnatural in his bearing;
Not unlike that of singed mushrooms at high noon.
Shaking the wonder from my eyes,
I smoothed his tousled head and 
Grasped his hand close to my heart.
With this, his appearance changed back to 
a more familiar illusion.
(And) He whispered, "I love you more than blood".*
(from Dylan)
Then aloud, "When will you learn to die?"
T'was then she began to crumble.
Invincible-but just for a moment.
Gathering her powers, she regained her stature, 
and lunged for my heart 
with sweetness on her visage, but poison
in her mind.
I made not any attempt to save myself, 
barely seeing what was happening. .
So he rescued me, snatching an inspiration from
the sky.
"Pax VobiscumV', he cried, 
and seeing her stunned, 
mounted the steed tethered nearby.
I in his arms did surrender 
to his unbending will for life.
Two as one, astride, we easily outdistanced her, 
leaving her gnashing her teeth at the roadside.
I worriedwould she reappear?
but soon looked to what lay ahead.
A sun filled garden lay spread before us, 
full of cacti blossoms and green ferns.
We dismounted, our olfactory senses overwhelmed
by pleasant serenity. 
There was no gloom here, yet I held tight 
to the fingers entwined 
in my own.
A security enveloped us.
I know not from whence came the silvery light
flooding all.
The place was too crowded to permit the entry
of words, yet we 
communicated perfectly.
Suddenly I knew I was not in a strange place,
it was as familiar to me as my other world. 
I spoke these last aloud; 
the reassuring hand squeezed mine and he spoke. 
"Our other world".
Material is already coming in for upcoming is
sues of FOLIO, but we never seem to get as much 
as we want. In the day-to-day drudgery of scho
lastic achievement, we know how hard it is to 
keep track of our more colorful alter egos, but 
that's all the more reason to do so. Somewhere, in 
the sub-sub-sub-basements of Doherty or in the 
bowels of Baker-Porter, or even in the dish room 
at Skibo, there's a story. And we'd love to print 
it! FOLIO's next theme is "The Old CMU Grind 
and it's coming out on October 3. Believe us, it's 
a lot of work to put together eight pages alone 
too! So please drop off your typed copy or art
work at the TARTAN office or in our Skibo 
mailbox by September 25.
And don't forget that we're still looking for 
special" features for four-page FOLIOs.

---------------------------------------------------

September 19,1978-TARTAN-page 17
As we ran, we seemed to advance no further;
She gained without expending a movement 
In exhaustion we tripped down stairs and 
flailed blindly at doves in our faces.
It appeared that we were back in the prime 
paragraph of our slightly perfect understanding, 
holding each other,
softly rocking the orb on which we stood.
But the reality of the Raven-haired fury
at our heels 
obscured the sweet vision, jarring our safety 
and piercing the warm haze settling over our hearts.
Shaking the morning sleep from ourselves, 
we, (at least I ) were surprised to find the
nighttime flown.
Come," he said, lifting my hand, A golden demon 
follows us forever."
Puzzled, I stumbled hastily to my feet.
He was not wrong!
We met the demon in a cloud of light reflected 
from his own gilded hair.
I led him into a wine bottle, 
through shamrock fields and 
past a plaid pear tree where once before 
he had traced my lips with,his own.
Once again we consumated our love, swimming in 
the green ocean of each others' eyes.
Gesturing obscenely, he spoke in a voice 
which grated on our sensibilities.
He parleyed in a whine, and I caught 
the wrods, "Vengeance for my beloved."
The cloud began to dissolve in 
a slow whistling moan  when my feet passed 
through time so that I clawed at his eyes fiercely. 
But blind rage could not overcome his calculated
brute force.
I called to my alter ego, who, 
in a fraction of forever
renewed his knight-image, 
(Polishing his armor slightly tarniished 
some lifetime before.)
With one crashing blow, he downed the fiend, and 
found himself in a bubblegum mountain.
By and by, our demon rose, whimperinga child in disguise. Laughing softly, 
my cavalier rose, 
touching a wound, trickling scarlet,
And called to me, "We have none to fear now."
I wrapped his hand in my silken veil 
and cleansed his wound 
with the salt of my tears.
He silenced my weeping,
Brushing my trembling lip with his own.
We moved ahead into a moss-draped wood 
leaving behind the open grass and plaid pear tree.
We found there an enormous oak,
with a swing hung from its strongest 
bough. Somehow it was all based on reality, 
though its uppermost limbs vanished into
angel-hair clouds.
We swung for days, til once again there appeared 
a silver-cloaked serpent, swaying her raven tresses
in a hypnotic arc.
We had no courage; we cared for little 
besides each other and flight..
Hot pursuit cooled to a weary-footed plodding;
We stomped, cobbleshod, before our antecedent.
In my exhaustion , I fell
as her lambent feet trampled me gently. 
He ran on, not noticing my absence til t'was 
too late.
If he felt poignant regret, he showed it not.
For my weakness, he moved on.
Once he turned  I recoiled in horror. It was not he,
But the demoniacal ally of the Raven-tresses one.
I did not run.
Facing them both, I asked boldly,
"What do you desire of me?" 
They did not answer.
But, I could reply as in a vision 
"Is it not that you be my fears 
Preying on my mind, and choking my happiness?"
"We are; curse us not 
for out corporeal existence 
is solely through yours."
I understood.
Heaving hours over our shoulders, we travelled on.

---------------------------------------------------

RIAN
''SgS'A study business, 
Vent at CMU
 Kg
w jobs i?ws
e:t .tinmer*
"w"' MS,soon
Hcrn^nsSiOOtu^

---------------------------------------------------

September 19,1978TARTANpage 19
continued from page 1
as well as in engineering, science, 
management and the fine arts.
Cyert summarized the H&SS develop
ment with the following, You always 
have better luck when you plan well and 
work hard.
Referring to the swelled CIT enroll
ment, Cyert said that this dispropor
tion is going to require some changes 
which we must make without necessarily 
permanantly distorting our faculty size. 
Cyert also informed the faculty of his 
own preference for next years freshman 
class distribution. The figures of 350 for 
CIT, 250 for MIS, 50 for AMS, 175 for 
H&SS, and 200 for CFA are only tentative 
since there has not been adequate 
discussion with the Deans.
These figures, noted Cyert, repre
sent a change to a heavier engineering 
and a lower fine arts enrollment. This 
direction is being sought because of the 
over-crowding in CFA, and because there 
are indications that the boom in fine 
arts students is beginning to decline. 
Addressing changing enrollments and 
the maintenance of a high quality student 
body, Cyert stated that in addition to 
good work by the admissions office, the 
reputation that our University is able 
to establish for itself is perhaps of 
more fundamental importance.
Reputations are multidimensional 
things. Engagement of faculty in
Cyert Projects into the Future
professional activities and a realistic and 
efficient public relations office are con
tributors to a universities reputation.
He praised the current job the public 
relations office is doing, pointing to many 
statistics which indicate increasing na
tional media attention being put upon 
CMU, backing up the claim that our 
national reputation is on the incline. 
Jokingly, Cyert mentioned that excluding 
sports, we have had 92% more national 
coverage than the University of Pitts
burgh. Thats logical, said Cyert, we 
are at least that much better. Reputation 
was only one dimension for assessing qual
ity, Cyert cited.
Cyert also delivered his usual financial 
report: this was CMUs 6th straight
year of operating in the black, and the 
Investments in Progress campaign is going 
well. There is a $10 million gift pending 
which would directly benefit CFA and 
H&SS. If we can get that one were 
going to be in very good shape to reach 
the $100 million goal. Cyert added later 
that CMU is one of the few universities 
which foundations have been able to per
ceive as increasing in quality over the 
past ten years.
Our overall goals must still be the 
twin goals of excellence in teaching and in 
research, Cyert continued. Excellence 
in teaching is harder to measure. It 
can be assessed through recognition by the
students, and the development of new 
courses and teaching methods. I dont 
mean to imply by my high regard for 
innovation in teaching that all innovation 
is good, that we should change for the 
sake of change or that old methods of 
teaching are bad. I do believe that ed
ucation requires much more investigation 
than it has been given in the past.
Addressing the future of higher learning, 
Cyert said that education is a declining 
industry due primarily to a decline in the 
number of high school graduates. Cyert
indicated that CMU will survive the 80s 
since it is building up strength, but empha
sized that there is no decreasing burden 
on the administration or the-faculty to 
continue running counter to the national 
trend.
Cyert also addressed the future of the 
physical plant.  We do not have specific 
plans for new buildings. A new theatre 
for the fine arts is one project Cyert 
hopes to see undertaken before he leaves 
office. Cyert also acknowleged that 
CMUs athletic facilities are second rate 
and that they are getting more utilization. 
This is what we inherited, continued 
Cyert, and we can not change it over
night. These do appear to be the two 
construction projects that we might some
day undertake, if the funds are available. 
Cyert did state his preference for the 
endowment money to be earning more
Homecoming Has New Look
by Lynn Epstein
Flying logs and hammers? On the cut? No, theyre not your 
imagination, but they are a part of the Alumni Associations 
plans for this years Homecoming.
In an effort to revive the old spirit of Homecoming, the 
Student Alumni Relations Council is scheduling a full weekend 
of activities in which both students and alumni are invited to par
ticipate, starting with the Highlander Games.
Out on the cut, Friday, October 20 from 12:30 to 2:30 PM, 
you, as a student or alumnus of CMU, will be priviledged to wit
ness, and, if youre brave enough, take part in, the Highlander 
Games-ancient Scottish tests of strength.
These games will include the Scottish customs of tossing the 
caber, or rafter, the Hammer Throw, and the popular favorite of 
tug of war. Prizes will be offered, and details on rules and reg
istration will be provided on a later date.
The next event planned, and a highlight for alumni, is the 
Alumni Awards Banquet at 7 PM in the Skibo Ballroom. Twelve 
alumni will be honored for their accomplishments and service 
to the University.
Later that night, at 9:00 PM in front of Warner 
Hall, a torch-lit parade of students, along with the 
Kiltie Marching Band, cheerleaders, coaches, and football team, 
will form and march over to the IM field for a bonfire and pep 
rally.*-------------rr
Highlights for Saturday include hot air balloon rides, an ox 
toast lunch, a parade, and, of course, the Homecoming football 
game.
Take-off time and place for the balloon rides are the Fine Arts 
lawn from 10:00 AM to 1:00 PM in the afternoon at $3.00 a 
ride. Beginning at 11:30 and running until 1:00 PM will be the 
Ox Roast Lunch, prepared on the cut and bought on a pay-asyou eat basis.
At 12:30 PM in front of Skibo, a parade of classes will make 
its way over to the football stadium for the game. In this parade 
will be the Kiltie Band, cheerleaders, students, a show of antique 
cars, and student-made floats. Campus organizations are encour
aged to take part in the float cometition, the theme of which is, 
Back to Tech Traditions.* A grand prize of a $150 gift certif
icate is offered from Victoria Beverages.
Beginning at 1:30, the Tartans will take on the Allegheny 
Gators. Following this, a Young Alumni Party in the Wherrett 
Room for the classes of 68 through 78 will take place.
To wind up the day, a Homecoming Dinner Dance will be held 
at the William Penn, Downtown. Cocktails will be at 7:00 and 
dinner at 8:00, with entertainment and dancing until 12:30. 
The cost is $15.00 per person.
Further activities are still in the planning stage, and the Home
coming committee welcomes anyones help. To get involved, 
contact the Student Alumni Relations Council.
money for us rather than in buildings.
Better library facilities are being sought. 
While more money is being spent, Cyert 
indicated that he is not sure whether CMU 
can match inflations impact on book and 
journal prices, with the rate of increased 
allocation which he foresees.
With respect to academic development, 
Cyert said that we are prepared to move 
into new and developing areas from our 
current bases of strength. He also said 
that he is particularly anxious to see us 
stronger in science, and is confident 
that this is possible under Dean Bergs 
leadership.
Finally, Cyert addressed a more uni
versal reason for bettering the univer
sity. If we can show the world that it 
is possible in these circumstances to con
tinue to improve ourselves... then we will 
be serving a cause that is greater than 
the cause of this university, and that is 
the cause of the universities in our 
society.
Cyert concluded by encouraging the 
faculty to join him in his hopes for im
proving CMU. By doing so,  we will 
be striking a blow for universities all over 
the country.
CMU Buys 
3rd DEC-20
CMU has purchased a third DECsystem 
20 computer, and had it installed and in 
operation the week before school started. 
The new computer, called TOPS-C, was 
operatible two weeks after arriving, in 
contrast to TOPS-B which took six months 
to be installed.
The new computer is the latest step in 
a long range growth plan designed to in
crease capacity to meet growth in comput
ing needs. The new computer, a 2050, will 
be upgraded to a 2060 when the hardware 
needed is available. The computer will 
then be able to store more than 1.2 million 
words in memory, and will allow users up 
to 4000 files in a directory. It can also 
have six disks in a single structure, com
pared with two on a 2050.
The new computer will handle mainly 
users from CIT and MIS, while TOPS-B 
will carry the other schools and CMIR. 
Information systems and Warner Hall 
will be the main users of TOPS-A.
In related news, CIT is in the process 
of creating a college terminal room, similar 
to those of SUPA and GS1A. The facility 
will be located in Hamerschlag 20. and will 
provide a reservation service which will 
hold free terminals for students. The room 
is scheduled to be ready tor use by the 
beginning of October.
I I
iO:R:'S 
iOAi 
B:AUiI
FUL
LA^y 
m fAy
CALCULUS 
C LASS.
Hty Bl\6tlHAVE you 
PERFORMED
MY.
INTE6RKTI0N 
LATELY?/
HfeV, Hty, HE/! 
X'M A \NILD 
AND 
KU RRAY 
KlMD OF 
GUYi

---------------------------------------------------

page 20TARTANSeptember 19, 1978
Career Services Office Informs Seniors
In addition to providing career advisory 
and job placement assistance to CMU 
students, the Office of Career Services and 
Placement serves as an infonnation center 
for many of the postgraduate fellowship 
and scholarship programs available to 
students for study in the U.S. and abroad. 
Only candidates with very superior aca
demic credentials should consider applying 
for these. Some of the programs also 
require review and nomination of can
didates by campus faculty committees. 
A short description of the more presti
gious awards which have application 
deadlines during the coming month or two 
follows More information about each of 
these programs is available in the Office 
of Career Services and Placement, Room 
19, Warner Hall.
Winston Churchill Foundation Scholarships 
Available to American students of excep
tional ability from a select group of col
leges and universities in the U.S. to do 
graduate, work in engineering, science or 
mathematics at Churchill College, Cam
bridge University. Approximately ten 
scholarships are awarded annually. The 
majority of these are for one year but a 
few are for three years and permit a 
student to work for a Ph.D. The annual 
stipend for the one year scholarship is 
S4000 plus a travel grant of $500. The 
three year scholarship carries an annual 
stipend of $4500 and the v$500 travel 
grant. Serious candidates must take the 
GREs in October. The deadline for receipt 
of applications is November 15.
Danforth Graduate Fellowship Program 
Applicants must be U.S. citizens or hold 
permanent residency, visas. These fellow
ships are intended to give financial support 
to persons who plan to become college or 
university teachers in subject matters 
likely to be taught in an undergraduate
liberal arts curriculum. Candidates are 
expected to study for a Ph.D. or other 
appropriate terminal degrees. The fellow
ship tenable at an accredited university 
in the U.S. is for one year and is renewable 
for up to a total of four years. The award 
provides for the payment of tuition and 
fees and a stipend based upon individual 
need. Carnegie-Mellon is permitted up to 
three nominees from among the present 
senior class and up to five nominees from 
among graduate students now enrolled at 
CMU. Students interested in being consid
ered for one of these awards must submit a 
statement of their career objectives and a 
copy of all transcripts > by October 27. 
Fulbright-Hayes Program 
Administered by the Institute of Inter
national Education to increase mutual 
understanding between the people of the 
United States and the people of other 
countries. These are study and research
Let a TI calculator help you make more efficient use of your time. 
This semester... and for years to come.
FREE! This $12.95 valuebook when you buy aTI Programmable 58 or 59.
$12.95
^ cn'MCKTb<? f 8f S 3? *S 8
MAT** AMMTX2* 1to.- I1 *-Trrr^rcarAaC0r 'c#ESprviuCE*"*at*IVLANJPiA**srVnM1mePr*SSTSIOmxA*rOtoPmtotinBSTEE* {)a.\Ftmtsa*OSTOmamamaatmcfttVSB*KBmaC3a0M9vtrWSTOmaanDu<>to*urnEBmmszaaT! M I 1sama$124.95*TI Programmable 58
< Sourcebook for Programmable Calculators
Step-by-step programmed solutions, whatever your field: mathematics  calculus  statistics  business and operations research  economics  biology  engineering  physics and astronomy  music  and much more . .
6 ? 3 5 3 7 c- 5:
MM AOC TO* AMD ULTiPi CATOM to.-*
? INV line 
ptm eb
>4CA f6/ C-C r.aSST STO O. SUM
Today s programmable 
calculators provide a 
powerful new tool lor 
students A professionals 
alike This book shows 
you how.
Ml'$299.95* TI Programmable 59
The Sourcebook for Programmable Calculators is a 
new book from Texas Instruments designed to help 
you explore the power of your programmable calcu
lator. Contains over 350 pages covering step-by-step 
programmed solutions to problems in a wide range 
of fields. And its yours free, if you act now.
The TI Programmable (________________________
58 and 59 both feature r 
Tls preprogrammed 
Solid State Software ' 
plug-in modules. A Mas- I 
ter Library Module of 25 | 
programs in math, sta
tistics, and finance is 
included. Optional li- I 
braries are available in: |
Applied Statistics. Real 
Estate/Investment. Avia- 1 Name, 
tion. Marine Navigation. I 
Surveying. Leisure. Busi- j 
ness Decisions. Securi
ties Analysis. And more ' 
to come. I
For TI-59 owners, Tls i
(pre-written programs) are available in major study 
fields including civil, electronic and computer engi
neering; physics, statistics, and business/finance. 
And, additional ready-made programs written by 
professionals in your field are available through Tls 
Professional Program Exchange (PPX-59) member_______________________________________________( ship program.
Use this coupon to obtain your free book. I
Texas Instruments will send you a tree copy ot Sourcebook for Programmable I 
Calculators, a $12 95 value, when you (1) Return this completed coupon, including 
serial number, (2) along with your completed TI-58 or TI-59 customer intormation | 
card (packed in box). (3) a dated copy of proof of your purchase verifying purchase 
between August 15 and October 31. 1978 Your coupon, customer information card, | 
and dated copy of proof of purchase must be postmarked on or before November 7, ,
1978 to qualify for this special offer. Book covers step-by-step programmed solu- I 
tions to problems in a wide range of fields: mathematics calculus, statistics, business  
and operations research, economics, biology, engineering, physics and astronomy. I 
music, and much more i
Send to: TI-58/59 Free Book Offer. P. 0. Box 53, Lubbock, Texas 79408
Address. 
City__
State_.20-
Tls Programmable 58 
and 59 calculators offer 
a wide range of capa
bility and performance. 
From the student to the 
advanced professional, 
theres a TI Programma
ble ideally suited to your 
needs, and your price 
range.
See them both at your 
retailer today. Dont 
miss out on this 
special, limited 
time offer.Tl-58 Of TI-59 SERIAL NUMBER -rom back ot calculator) 1Please allow 30 days tor delivery Otter void where prohibited by law Offer good in U S onlySpecialty Packettes i_________________________________________________i * US suggested retail price
A'Lin danVo\F'aVn
 1971 torn instumems incorporated1 NCORPORATED45604
grants which are tenable at a number of 
institutions of higher learning abroad. 
Candidates must be U.S. citizens, have an 
acceptable plan of study and demonstarte 
proficiency in the language of the host 
country. The grants cover international 
transportation, tuition, books, and main
tenance allowances and can be applied to 
study and research in all fields as well as 
professional training in the creative and 
performing arts. Applications must be sub
mitted by October 16.
Hertz Fellowships
The Hertz Foundation annually awards 
twenty-five to thirty-five new grants to 
students for graduate study in the applied 
physical sciences. The awards are made for 
one year and are renewable for a total of 
three years and are tenable at any one of 
fourteen prestigious institutions in the U.S. 
including Carnegie-Mellon. Selected can
didates receive a stipend of $5500 ($6500 
if the Fellow is married) and the Foun
dation also pays all tuition and fees. The 
deadline for applications to be received by 
the Foundation has not been announced 
but is usually November 1.
Luce Scholarships
The Luce Scholarship Program seeks to 
promote American understanding of Asian 
cultures by providing internships for 
fifteen Americans to spend ten months 
associated with an Asian organization. 
The stipend for each scholar is $9000. 
Carnegie-Mellon may propose three nom
inees who submit formal applications for 
the scholarships. Candidates should have a 
record of the highest academic achievement 
combined with evidence of outstanding 
leadership ability and must be no more 
than 29 years of age on September 1st 
of the year he or she enters the program. 
Students interested in these scholarships 
should make inquiry by October 15. The 
universitys nominations are due at the 
Foundation on December 4.
Marshall Scholarships
Thirty men and women are selected each 
year to study as Marshall Scholars for two 
years at British universities in a wide range 
of subjects (including the sciences and 
humanities). A Marshall Scholarship pro
vides tuition, books, travel expenses and 
a monthly stipend. Applications must be 
received by October 22.
Rhodes Scholarships
These scholarships are only tenable at 
Oxford University for study in one of a 
number of fields. Thirty-two scholarships 
are awarded annually for two-year pro
grams leading to baccalaureate or higher 
degrees. A third year may be granted if 
the students record and plan of study 
warrant such an award. Qualifications for 
selection include exceptional literary and 
scholastic ability and attainments; person
al, moral, and social integrity of character; 
and physical vigor, shown by active in
volvement in sports. Candidates must be 
U.S. citizens between the ages of eighteen 
and twenty-four. Rhodes Scholarships 
provide all tuition and fees, round trip 
transportation to Oxford, and an annual 
stipend of $4200. Applications should be 
submitted early in October but in no case 
later than October 31.
Graduate Record Examination(GRE)
Application Deadlines: 
September 25,1978 
November 8,1978 
December 12,1978 
January 24,1979 
March 28,1979 
May 9,1979
Test Dates: 
Oct. 21, 1978 
Dec. 9, 1978
Jan. 13, 1979
Feb. 24, 1979 
April 28, 1979 
June 23, 1979
see following page for more test dates

---------------------------------------------------

September 19,1978TARTANpage 21
ousing Eases UpRA's Stand Up
by Belinda Quan
The Housing Office has instituted new 
-olicies this Fall regarding housing conracts, room changes, and room reclasification.
If the dormitories have 100% occuancy a student can break his housing 
ontract anytime, but he must pay a 
100 cancellation fee. During the same 
cademic year, he cannot move back to 
he dormitories. And in the following 
ear, if he wishes to move onto campus, 
will be considered a commuter and 
e placed on a waiting list.
In the Spring semester, only 50 stuents can break their housing contracts 
so that the Housing Office can maintain 
full occupancy of the dorms. Students 
ust notify the Office before Nov. 30. 
Room changes will be permitted any 
time, except the first and last three weeks 
of each semester, and the two weeks 
before room draw. But students living in 
temporary quarters have priority in' moving 
into a vacancy.
For a one to one room change, a stuRyan Award
continued from page 1
uate education, Gossard was cited in parti
cular for introducing the concept of re
quired piano instruction for all music stu
dents as a way of strengthening musical lit
eracy. To facilitate individualized piano in
struction for many students simultaneous
ly, she recently established an electronic pi
ano laboratory through a grant she received 
from the Department of Health, Educa
tion and Welfare.
Few teachers in the music department 
have contact with as many students as M^. 
Gossard does, said Music Department head 
Robert Page. She is a professional in the 
loftiest sense of the word: proficient, in
ventive, and dedicated.
A 1946 graduate of CMU, Gossard earn
ed her masters of music degree from the 
University of Southern California. Before 
joining the CMU faculty she taught for 
eight years at the Cadek Conservatory of 
the University of Chattanooga in Tennes
see. During that time she also served as or
ganist at the Lookout Mountain, Tennessee 
Presbyterian Church (1947-51) and at the 
First Christian Church of Cattanooga 
(1952-53) and was staff pianist of the Chat
tanooga Symphony Orchestra in 1955. In 
addition to appearing with the Cleveland 
Orchestra, she has presented solo recitals 
and participated in chamber music concerts 
in both Pittsburgh and Chattanooga.
dent need not have the approval of his 
R.A. or Area Director. He is only re
quired to submit a room change form 
with his new roomates signatures.
Last year, when a vacancy occurred 
in a room the remaining students had 
to pay more, accept a new roomate, or 
move. Now students can have their room 
reclassified in one step only. For example, 
a standard quad can only be reclassified 
as a standard triple. It cannot be made 
into a double. However, the Housing 
Office will not allow any rooms to be 
reclassified until no students are being 
temporarily housed.
According to Gerald Dalton, Housing 
Director, 68 out of the 900 freshman 
living on campus are in temporary 
housing. Some are living in reclassified 
lounges in Morewood and Scobell, and 
others in the fraternities. Due to the 
housing shortage, some freshman were 
placed in Mudge House displacing some 
graduate students to Shirley Apartments, 
formerly the place for transfer students. 
The Housing Office has also rented a 
total of eleven rooms for 22 graduate 
students in the Ambassador and Coronado 
Apartments. Both buildings are located 
on Centre Avenue.
by Beth Arden
Three cheers for the RAs! should be 
the slogan for this years Resident Assis
tants. Decked out in T-shirts labeled RA 
RA RA, the 35 RAs were on hand to an
swer questions at two meetings held last 
Tuesday and Wednesday.
For you freshmen and transfer students, 
the RAs are students whose part-time job 
is to see to residents needs and in general 
to keep the dorms in order.

The meetings were designed by the full
time Residence Life directors to strengthen 
the program and to serve as informal social 
hours for the students to get to know their 
RAs. Tuesdays meeting was for Morewood and Mudge residents, with the RA's 
from those two buildings attending. It 
was held at 9:00 PM in the B&C lobby of 
Morewood.
Donner and the Hill dorm residents 
were invited to Wednesdays meeting, 
held in Donner at 9:00 PM. RAs from 
those buildings were present. Also avail
able for questions at each meeting were 
all three of the directors of the Residence 
Life staff, including the chairman.
McKenna Award
continued from page 1
Stable nr grow.
President Cyert piesented Swedlow the 
award, wnich carries an inscribed memo 
and a $5000 cash prize, at the annual Fall 
faculty meeting on September 13.
Arthur Murphy, head of the Mechanical 
Engineering Department commented, Im 
especially pleased that the award is being 
given to Professor Swedlow who is in the 
prime of his career, yet has already gained 
international recognition as an expert on 
fracture mechanics. Swedlow heads an 
active research group of six graduate stu
dents working under research contracts to 
the Air Force, NASA, and the National 
Science Foundation.
Swedlow has authored over 45 scienti
fic articles on elasto plastic stress analysis 
and other topics related to fracture mecha
nics. He has also made dozens of presen
tations as an invited lecturer at universi
ties in this country and abroad, and last 
year presented two major keynote addresses 
at international conferences. In addition 
to his research, Swedlow has been active 
as a consultant to firms in the aerospace, 
power, and manufacturing industries.
Prior to coming to CMU in 1966, Swed
low was a Research Fellow in Aeronautics
at California Institute of Technology, 
where he received PhD. and B.S. degrees. 
He also earned an M.S. at Stanford Univer
sity. Swedlow serves as an editor for 
The International Journal of Fracture, 
and is an active member of the American 
Society of Mechanical Engineers, American 
Society for Testing and Materials, the 
International Congress on Fracture and the 
Society for Experimental Stress Analysis.
Free punch was served, adding to the 
atmosphere of a social. The RA s were 
very friendly and interested in the stu
dents that came. About as many students 
as RAs turned out at the Morewood meet
ing, with a little less showing up at the 
Donner meeting.
The small turnout was attributed to 
lack of advertising. It was also due to the 
fact that most students already know their 
RAs.
If you have any questions regarding 
dorm life, or if you would like to meet 
any other member of the Residence 
Life staff, get in touch with the chairman, 
Claudia Geraci, at X2080.
Conference Set
CMU will host a conference on October 
9-10 entitled Problem Solving and 
Education: Issues in teaching and Re
search. Invited speakers will discuss ex
perimental and theoretical work on pro
blem-solving processes, and their applica
tion to practical educational issues.
Topics include recent developments in 
the theory of problem solving, the impli
cations of computational models of teach
ing and learning for education, teaching 
problem solving in physics, and problem 
solving appraches in teaching practical 
reasoning, ethics, and evaluation.
There is a $50 registration fee for the 
two-day conference which includes a copy 
of the conference proceedings, and covers 
the cost of two lunches and a banquet. 
For additional information, contact David 
T. Tuma, Box 104, Carnegie-Mellon 
University, Pittsburgh PA 15213.
Grad Testing Dates
Law School Aptitude Test (LSAT)
Application Deadlines: Test Dates:
September 14,1978 Oct. 14, 1978
November 6,1978 Dec. 2, 1978
January 4,1979 Feb. 3, 1979
March 22,1979 April 21, 1979
May 24,1979 June 23, 1979
Professional and Administrative Career 
Examination(PACE)
Graduate
(GMAT)
Management Admission Test
Application Deadlines: 
October 6,1978 
January 5,1979 
February 23,1979 
June 15,1979
Test Dates: 
Oct. 28, 1978
Jan. 27, 1979
March 17, 1979
July 7, 1979
Tiling Periods: Test
September 18 to Nov.4
October 12,1978 1978
January 22 to March
February 22,1979 April
Dates: 
to Dec .9
10 to 
7, 1979
Foreign Service Officer Examination
Application Dead'inc: Test Date:
October 20.1978 Dec. 2, 1978
Informational booklets and applications 
available in the Office of Career Services 
and Placement WII19.__________________
UNIVERSITY ORATORY OF THE HOLY SPIRIT PARISH 4040 BIGELOW BLVD.
(Across from Schenley High School)
FOR GRADUATE STUDENTS: CHRISTIAN UNION - 
Problems and Prospects
Oratory Graduate students of Carnegie-Mellon University will 
meet at the Oratory every other Wednesday evening this term, 
beginning September 20 and ending November 29. The general 
theme of the meetings will be Christian Union: Problems and 
Prospects, and the evenings will alternate between three lec
tures on this subject from the perspective of three Christian 
Communions, and three Masses, followed by a buffet supper, 
discussion of the previous lecture, and socializing. The lecture 
evenings will begin at 8:30 PM and the Mass-Supper-Discussion 
evenings will begin at 7:00 PM. All will conclude by 10:00 PM. 
The schedule is as follows:
Sept. 20, 8:30 PM: Roman Catholicism: Speaker: Father 
William Clancy, Provost, The Oratory.
Oct. 4, 7:00 PM: Mass, Buffet, Discussion.
Oct. 18, 8:30 PM: Anglicanism: Speaker: Father William
Coats, Rector, The Episcopal Church of the Redeemer.
Nov. 1, 7:00 PM: Mass, Buffet, Discussion.
Nov. 15, 8:30 PM: Orthodoxy: Speaker: Father Sarantos Serviou, Dean, St. Nicholas Greek Orthodox Cathedral.
Nov. 29, 7:00 PM: Mass, Buffet, Discussion.
All interested Graduate Students, non Roman Catholics as well 
as Roman Catholics, are cordially invited to join in these six 
evenings of learning, praying, and socializing together. For 
more information phone: 681-3181

---------------------------------------------------

page 22TARTANSeptember 19,1978
New Poster Policy Improves Campus Image
by Scott Sibley
The University has announced a new 
policy concerning the placement of posters 
on campus. Posters may only be affixed to 
bulletin boards and other placement will 
subject the violators to a fine.
This policy came under consideration 
last Spring. Dr. Richard Van Horn, VicePresident of Management, requested it to 
reduce the appearance of clutter and pre
sent a better image of the campus. Also, 
maintenance men will be freed from the 
duty of poster removal so they can devote 
more time to other cleaning jobs.
With such a ruling, there will be a scram
ble for bulletin board space. There is a con
spicuous lack of bulletin boards in campus 
buildings, most notably in Science and Do
herty Halls, which have almost no public 
bulletin boards. Therefore, Dean Swank 
has presented Dr. Van Horn with a list of 
locations where bulletin boards are needed. 
This list includes all elevators, the lobbies 
of most academic buildings and at the en
trances to the major lecture halls. The 
Housing Office is investigating the need for
poster space in the dorms, particularly in 
Donner and More wood. Dean Swank 
would like to know about any areas that 
have been overlooked.
The possibility of providing additonal 
outdoor sigh space is being examined. As 
with most campus construction, this must 
be approved by the Campus Design Com
mittee. The committee requested, several 
years ago, that outdoor bulletin boards 
be removed and replaced with the current 
glass and aluminum ones, such as outside 
of the Kiltie Cafe. In addition, a workstudy student will be hired to periodically 
remove out-of-date posters from bulletin 
boards around the school.
Even though there is a temporary space 
squeeze, most organizations have been co
operating with the new policy. The frater
nities have agreed to support this policy by 
removing any illegally-placed posters and 
placing them on the nearest bulletin board. 
Although October 1 is the official effective 
date, Security officers have already 
removed some posters from walls.
Until the new bulletin boards are in
stalled, organizations will be given warning 
about the policy. The administration re
quests cooperation from all academic departments as well as campus organizations 
and individuals in observing the new regu
lations despite the temporary inconven
ience.
Young Leads English Dept.
continued from page 1
our standards of excellence.
Although he is still involved in the pro
cess of assessing his new situation, Dr. 
Young has some general plans for the 
future of the English Department: I 
will try to address problems which have 
plagued the department for some time. 
For example, there has been a radical drop 
in demand for majors in the areas of En
glish studies. Therefore we must ask our
selves what we can do that will be per
ceived by society as being unique and 
useful? When we have identified these 
things, they can be incorporated as major 
components in the curriculum...We must 
not confuse traditional literary studies 
with English studies, which are much 
broader; an emphasis on reading and
HEWLETT-PACKARD INTRODUCES PROFESSIONAL SCIENTIFIC CALCULATORS FOR A STUDENT'S BUDGET.
THE PRICE OF EXCELLENCE NOW STARTS AT $60?Now you can get the same quality, durability and many of the features found in Hewlett-Packard's professional calculators at a price you can afford Introducing Series E for science.
DESIGNED FOR STUDENTS. Easy-to-read displays. Ijarger. brighter LED display with commas to separate thousands, easier on the 
eves during those long hours of study.
Built-in diagnostic systems. You'll now be working on inanv new challenging 
problemsthats why Series E has diagnostic systems that tell y< >u:I) when youve
performed an incorrect operation: 2) why it was incorrect: 3) if the calculator isn't working properly.Accuracy. Improved algorithms give you confidence that your answers are more precise and complete.
FROM BASIC SCIENCE TO ADVANCED PROGRAMMABLE.The HP-31EScientific. $60? Trigonometric, exponential and math functions. Metric conversion. Fixed and scientific display modes. Full 10-digit display.4 separate user memories.The HP-32EAdvanced Scientific with Statistics. $80?All HP-3IE functions plus hyperbolics and comprehensive statistics More math and metric capabilities. Decimal degree conversions. ENG, SCI and FIX display modes. J5 user memories.
The HP-33E Programmable Scientific. $100? Scientific, math and statistics with pmgrammability. Editing, control and conditional keys. 49 lines of fully merged key codes. 8 user memories.
HEWLETT-PACKARD IS WITHOUT EQUAL.All Series E calculators use RPN logic exclusively.If you've never tried it. you're in for a big 
surprise. It lets you solve problems the way you naturally do in vour mind Straightforward. Logical No worrying about com plica ted hierarchies or parentheses. RPN is ihe shortest possible distance between the ques
tion and the answer.
SEE FOR YOURSELF.To help you select the calculator that's right for you, we've prepared a booklet entitled. The Student's Choice...the I jogical Choice!' Pick up a copy at your bookstore or nearest 1 lew lett-Packard dealer, when you stop by !<see Series E. lor the address. CALL TOLL-FREE 800-648-4711 except I rom Hawaii or Alaska. In Nevada call 800-992-5710.
When you stop by your dealer to see Series E, be sure to see our other professional calculators: the advanced programmable HP-29C and HP-19C with printer; and the HP-67 mag-card programmable.
But do it soon. A Hewlett-Packard professional calculator priced for a student's budget is something you cant afford to pass up. .
HEWLETT Jip, PACKARD
Dept 0000. 1000 N E Circle Blvd . Corvallis OR 97330
\ t.\es Continental 
Displays are pH*graphed separately to simulate actual appearancc
S***jeste<i retail pi ice gftcludift# applicable state ant! I 
L S A . Aiask.t  Hawaii
616/71
problems that do not have single correct 
answers but rather more or less reasonable 
answers, probabilities. But Dr. Young 
also believes in maintaining some aspects 
of traditional liberal studies: We must 
preserve and pass on the best of what has 
been thought and said; it is one source of 
writing skills might be the basis for pro
grams that are unique and useful. It must 
be recognized that writing provides the 
ability to engage in sophisticated intellec
tual behavior; without it there could be 
no universities, no libraries, no complex 
governments. There are certain thoughts 
which cannot be developed without the 
ability to write effectively; there are 
certain conclusions which can not be 
reached.
In discussing the applicibility of a lib
eral education, Dr. Young said, Take my 
own training, for instance. I was trained in 
English, and have worked since 1964 in 
the area of modern rhetorical theory. 
One definition of rhetoric is the history, 
theory, and art of using language to effect 
psychological change. Civilized change is 
based on language, persuasion, and this 
applies to all areas of human endeavor; 
the alternative is coercion. Thus, you can 
see the importance of rhetoric. And when I 
say rhetoric, I mean both written and 
spoken language. I am uneasy about the 
current divorce between oral and written 
language; I think it is an unfortunate 
academic division.
Since he was formerly with Michigans 
school of engineering, Dr. Young has 
cultivated a keen appreciation of the 
scientific and engineering disciplines. Be
cause of his exposure to these areas, he 
says, I am not uncomfortable in this 
situation at CMU, with its professional 
emphasis. I have spent my entire academic 
life in a professional school.
When asked whether engineering stu
dents had any need of the liberal arts, he 
replied, Engineering students should also 
have the knowledge of the best of what has 
been thought and said in our culture.
But Dr. Young also feels that human
ities students can learn much from the 
sciences: If we are not to be ignorant of 
technology, hence unable to intelligently 
influence the development of this society, 
we must pay as much attention to our 
own technological illiteracy as to that of 
our colleagues in CIT and MIS. Given the 
nature of the society we live in, it is just 
as important to know the laws of thermo
dynamics as it is to be knowledgable about 
grammatical theory or John Milton.
Consistent with his attitudes about 
science are his attitudes about scientists: 
I have found them to be no more in
human or intolerant than people in humansitic disciplines. I am offended by the 
frequently heard comment that one of 
our jobs is to humanize the engineer. In 
fact, some of my best friends are engi
neers.
During his first year at CMU, Dr. 
Young plans to, ...spend some time 
educating myself about CMU. Id like to 
talk with all the department heads and 
deans, as well as with faculty and students. 
This seems to me to be a prerequisite for 
effective work here.
Dr. Youngs B.A. and Ph.D. are in 
English Language and Literature. Dr. 
Young was most recently the chairman 
of the Humanities Department within 
the College of Engineering at Michigan 
for the past five years.

---------------------------------------------------

PLT buries "Finnegan
//
by David Sheward
James Joyces Finnegan's Wake is with
out a doubt the most difficult book to 
read and comprehend ever published. 
Forget War and Peace. Forget Moby 
Dick. Forget even Joyces other legendary
literary puzzler Ulysess. Finnegans Wake 
is the all-time champion. Joyce totally 
abandoned the narrative form when he 
wrote it. To describe it is impossible, but in 
the broadest possible terms it can be 
called an allegory concerning the per
'Dance of Death
petual birth, death and rebirth of man, 
the conflicts of beliefs between the West 
and the East, and the continual tlow 
of life as symbolized by the main char
acter, Anna Livia Purlabelle, who is both 
woman and river. All this is conveyed in 
a dream.
Why take all this murky symbolism 
and almost indecipherable cryptism on 
the stage? An imaginative adaptation 
might illuminate Joyces meaning and 
perhaps even afford a little entertainment 
along the way. Leon Katzs adaptation, 
currently at the Pittsburgh Labaratory 
Theatre, is not that production.
Katz hopes to make his, or rather 
Joyces meanings more accessible by 
putting a mimeographed synopsis of the 
play, complete with meaning of symbols, 
in the program. Katz should be thanked 
for at least that small courtesy to the 
audience. We would have surely been 
lost otherwise. The play is a dream of one 
Humphrey Chimpden Earwicker, concern
ing his wife (Anna Livia) and his twin 
sons, Shem and Shaun. The first act 
consists of a battle between Shem and 
Shaun for the position of Saviour. Shem 
is a self-portrait of Joyce in addition to 
representing the Eastern philosophy 
by dressing in an Oriental gown with two 
extra arms attached. Shaun presents the 
Western view appearing first as a mail
man, bringing the message of the coming
day, and then in angelic robes with a 
tin-foil halo. The second act is a mono
logue by Anna Livia Purlabelle as she 
reminesces with her husband and flows 
out to sea (shes a river, remember?).
All this would work out just fine it 
Director Bill Royston had staged it with 
some flair or imagination. But the actors 
seem to be moving arbitrarily from place 
to place with no sense of purpose or 
direction, and Joyces intricate wordplay 
alone cannot sustain dramatic interest.
There is also a fatal error in casting, ; 
Shaun is often refered to as Brawny" 
and as different from Shem as night and 
day. Brawny Shaun is played by 
scarecrow like Jim Edmonson, who is 
not physically different enough in type 
from David Crawfords Shem to afford 
a distinct or even passable contrast.
The production does have some merits 
however. The greatest of these is Jodie 
Lynne McClintock who plays Anna Livia. 
Silent through the entire first act, she 
takes command of the stage in the second 
and provides more interest than the 
entire cast did in the turgid first act. 
She becomes old, young, majestic, earthy, 
pitiable and sensual in the course of 
her monologue. She manages to make 
Joyces obscure meanings accessible. (The 
same cannot be said for Bob Fitzpatrick 
as her husband Earwicker who silently 
accompanies her on her journey out to 
sea. He continually wears the same dour 
expression and appears ludicrous in his 
pillow-stuffed nightshirt.)
David Millers original music is servicable and has a lovely Irish flavor to it, 
as the voices of the cast when called upon 
to sing. Ramona Fischer and Kate Royston 
are brassy and brash as two gossiping 
washerwomen who form a Greek chorus, 
commenting on the action. David Crawford 
has a delightful monologue about break
fasts which opens the second act. There 
are some nice stage effects. The best is 
a strobe light used when Earwicker, the 
dreamer, rumbles in his sleep and the 
strobe throws everyone on stage in a 
panic. Royston has the perfect response 
afterwards when she admonishes Earwicker 
to control his bowels.
All these nice sidelights cannot over 
come the productions inherent inacces
sibility of Joyces meanings and Director 
Koyston s lack or imagination. This Finnegan should be buried without a wake
Michael Pierce and James Baffico portray Kurt and Edgar in CMU Theatre Company's Dance of 
Death. The production will run through September 23 in the Kresge Theatre. See review page 25.Disco LP's reviewed
Hit or miss with TV networks
by Simon Beck
A new season of television viewing has begun and 
the ratings war to determine the top network is fiercer 
than ever. Old shows have received new time slots and 
characters in hopes of extending their success. Short 
lives are predicted tor most of the new series. As a new 
series' takes time to develop an audience, and net
works are only interested in instant hits, the ax 
should fall on several series early in the season.
Quality is a dubious term that is being used to 
describe the new series by the networks. Schlock is 
the term the critics use. The proper term, well, the 
viewer will have to decide that for himself.
Over the next few weeks, we will view these 
offerings, as well as a bombardment of specials and 
mini-series devised to lure viewers from other net
works and help kill the already death-prone new 
series.
Given these odds, few series should survive the 
season, much less return for the 79-80 season. Here 
is my list of hit picks and misses:
Apple Pie, ABC, Saturday, 8:30; MISS; Raunchy 
gimmick comedy about a lady who advertises for a 
family. Has one week potential on laughs.
American Girls, CBS, Saturday, 9.00; MISS; 
with the emphasis on posing.
Sword of Justice; NBC, Saturday, 10:00; MISS; 
They called this the Fugitive once, and that was over 
a long time ago.
Battlestar Gallactica; ABC, Sunday, 8:00; HIT; 
A Star Wars rip-off to be sure, but the combined 
special effects, hype promotion, attractive Richard 
Hatch, and pure fantasy should bring success.
Mary, CBS, Sunday, 8.00; HIT; America loves 
Mary, and everything Mary touches turns to gold. 
First she conquered sitcom and added new dimension 
to it now she hits the variety show.
KAZ; CBS, Sunday, 10:00; MISS; The show has 
a tried and true formula, but the acting in this story 
about a gruff and refined lawyer is endearing to 
audiences.
Lifeline, NBC, Sunday, 10:00, MISS; This show 
documenting real doctors with real patients has its 
own network scared abqjut realism.
WKRP in Cincinatti; CBS, Monday, 8:00; MISS; 
A strong comedy series about a muzak station gone 
top 40. It was placed in a time slot that has yet to 
produce a hit series.
People, CBS, Monday, 8:30; MISS; CBS tried to 
launch a weekly people magazine show two years 
ago and failed. The quality has dropped on the new 
entry and all it has going for it is Phyllis George.
Taxi, ABC, Tuesday, 9:30, HIT; ABC has shown 
a slight commitment to quality, pot because this show 
displays excellent writing and production and en
semble acting (it does), but because ABC put it in its 
best time slot, between Threes Company and 
Starsky and Hutch.
Paper Chase; CBS, Tuesday, 8:00; HIT; Touted as 
the best new show of the season also the most likely 
to die, if given time, should develop a loyal 
audience as M*A*S*H* did. Picks up where the 
movie left off. ,
Grandpa Goes to Washington, NBC, Tuesday, 
8:00, MISS; NBC says, Now you have a real choice. 
the iliannri,------------------------------------------
In the Beginning, CBS, Wednesday, 8:00, HIT; 
Im partial to series about storefront missionaries 
in Baltimore. Maybe it's homesickness.
Vega $; ABC, Wednesday, 10:00; HIT; Charlies 
Angels precede Aarons Devil. Equal time for 
sex-hungry women.
Dick Clarks Live Wednesday; NBC Wednesday, 
8:00; The series wont win on its allusion to 
Saturday Night Live, but it has big-name guests. 
But what if the show fails, they cant exactly move 
it to Thursdays?
Mork and Mindy; ABC, Thursday, 8:00; HIT; 
This may be one of the corniest ideas in years, but kids 
still love take-offs on My Favorite Martian.
W.E.B.; NBC, Thursday, 10:00;MISS; It would have 
been nice to know that television could take a 
satirical look at itself, but after seeing the first install
ment, 1 should know better.
Waverly Wonders, NBC, Friday, 8:00; MISS; Lets 
t;et something straight; theyre no wonders, by any 
means.
Whos Watching the Kids, NBC, Friday 8:30; HIT: 
Scotty Baio, new teen idol, could be the reason this 
otherwise dreadful series will succeed.
Eddie Capra Mysteries; NBC, Friday, 10:00; MISS; 
The only mystery is how this got on the schedule in 
the first place.
Flying High, CBS, Friday, 9:00; MISS; My cousin 
produces this. Ill be gentle.
Also expected to go to that great re-run in the sky 
are. All in the Family, Barnaby Jones, Hawaii Five-O, 
Chips, Rhoda, the Jetfersons, Good Times, Happy 
Days, Starsky and Hutch, the Waltons, the Rockford 
Files, and Donny and Marie._______________________

---------------------------------------------------

Disco defended:Hustle, bump, 'n shuffle into Fall
page 24TARTANSeptember 19,1978
by David Lucas
Ever since the tender age of fifteen 
when 1 first heard the Intruders singing 
Ill Always Love My Mama, Ive been a 
lover of disco music. As an opinionated 
music critic, I find that i must constantly 
defend myself to an army of music 
lovers who wear tee shirts with Disco 
Sucks emblazoned across the chest in 
evanescent glitter. This troops collective 
idea of dancing is the flailing of trunk and 
limbs with no tempo corresponding to the 
music. To this group, dance music con
sists of as much of Christeen Sixteen or 
California Girls as can be perceived through 
a drunken haze.
When these people are subjected to 
disco music, it is through the pale disco 
charactures of Copacabana or the theme 
from Grease. When disco hits make the 
crossover from the discotheque to top 
40 radio, the songs are barely able to sur
vive the hourly airplay or butchering to 
AM-length.
To appreciate disco music, one must 
take it in context. It is a music produced 
for the Utopia of the disco dancer. In this 
Utopia, the music literally never stops. 
The segues from song to song are clean 
and the driving dance beat does not break. 
(Upon his first trip to a discotheque, a 
friend, who was schooled in the Disco 
Sucks tradition, told me, The only 
way 1 could tell when the record was 
over was when the people left the dance 
floor). The Utopia of the disco dancer 
is an environment where sound can be 
felt, (the feeling of the beat is largely
visceral,) and light can be heard, (through 
the synchronozation of the colored lights 
with the music.) the body has little choice 
but to move with the sensual onslaught. 
The dancer, seperate from or connected to 
his/her partner, is delighted with his/her 
improvisations and variations on the dis
co dances. It is under these conditions 
that disco becomes the indescribably 
delicious medium it is.
...And with that introduction, I would 
like to present the best of the 1978 Fall 
Disco Line.
Rick James-You and /; Motown Ex
tended Play Single
Dont be mislead by the sugary intro to 
You and I. The song is a discofunk scor
cher all the way through. The bass and 
guitar carry the weight of this extremely 
listenable tune and the inclusion of every* 
available musical instrument never becomes 
overbearing. James strong voice perfectly 
suits his genre, as do the voices of his 
back-up babes.
Karen Young -Hot Shot', West End 
Extended Play Single
Karen Young, hitherto unknown in the 
music scene, makes a smashing debut 
with this disc. With amazing urgency, 
Ms. Young wails, When its late at night/ 
And 1 aint feelin right/Aint no man in 
sight/1 need a hot shot. Her voice is 
powerful and her vocal mannerisms unique. The song climaxed with Karens 
combination of scat singing, belle canto 
and what sounds like Spanish. Hot Shots
percussion is nearly as outstanding as 
its vocals, using cymbals, cungas and 
handclaps to marvelous advantage.
Grace Jones-Z)o or Die; Island Ex
tended Play Single
Grace Jones, the Diva of Disco Kink, 
returns this fall in Do Or Die. Ive got to 
do or die ./Im reaching for the sky ./Ive 
got to make you mine ./I know I will in 
time, she moans. With a voice as utterly 
monolithic as hers, these mediocre lines 
are poetry. This record bears the unmistakeable earmark of arranger John Davis 
unrelenting bongo drums. Davis arrange
ment has all the melodrama of the score 
from a 1956 crime teleplay.
Donna Summer-Aasi Dance; Casablanca 
Extended Play Single
When all attempts to get her record 
spun at a Los Angeles disco fail, Nicole 
dresses in a slinky red lurex gown and 
steals onto the stage. Last Dance is the 
song which comes over the p.a. system. 
She does the beginning nice and easy and 
the finish nice and rough. Nicoles peerless 
voice and the records effervescent ar
rangement make the audience go wild. 
This is a scene from a turkey movie called 
Thank God Its Friday. TGIF is only one 
of the string of recent turkey movies 
which try to surround great songs with 
sit-com plots. Nicole is played by Donna 
Summer, who should stick to heavenly 
warbling and avoid the silver screen.
Last Dance offers disco dancers a rare 
treat, the chance to slow down and get 
romantic. On the disco version, the treat 
comes twice.
Evelyn Champagne K'mg-Shame; 
RCA Extended Play Single
Evelyn Champagne King is this 
years girl with a womans voice. At age 
18, she has a hit which has traversed the 
disco, r&b and top 40 charts. The lyrics 
of Shame ressurect a theme from the 
early 60s. Mama just dont understand/ 
How I love the man. The song is loaded 
with hooks. There are saxophone solos 
and handclapping, which are two of the 
best things to include in any disco lune.
Sylvester->/<> Heat /You Make Me 
led Mighty Real; Extended Play Single
Several years ago I saw a low-budget 
film callcd Tricias Wedding. In this film, 
the Cockettes. a band of transvestite 
actresses, impersonated the personalities 
who attended Tricia Nixons wedding. 
At the climax ol the film, Mamie Fisenhower poured LSI) into I he fruit punch 
and the members of the wedding party 
went be/erk, raping each other with 
baseball bats. One hulking black drag 
aueen in a Corretta King costume sang
a spiritual number. That was Sylvester.
After two albums which received 
little recognition, Sylvester has made a 
blitzkreig with both sides of this disco 
single. Both 'Disco Heat and Mighty Real 
have the driving percussion and throbbing 
bass which are disco prerequisites. Syl
vesters falsetto is nothing spectacular, 
but complemented by Mighty Reals 
spacey synthesizer and Disco Heats 
gospel chorus, the imperfections go un
noticed.
The Rolling Stones-Miss You; Atlantic 
Extended Play Single
Miss You lies on the border between 
rock and disco, a razors edge which needs 
to be walked more often. The balance 
here is perfect. Mick Jagger drawls his 
way through several minutes of delec
tably insipid lyrics. The background is a 
potent blend of thumping bass and har
monica, with lackadasical back up vocals 
for emphasis.
Foxy -Get Off/Tern's Song; Dash L.P.
This two hit album is a product of the 
T.K. Organization of Florida, which 
brought us Peter Brown and K.C. and the 
Sunshine Band. The title song of the album 
is probably the most successful of the 
recent string of disco chant songs, (lead by 
Michael Zagers Lets All Chant.) The 
chant, a sort of disco hog-calling, punc
tuates Foxys musical tale of male nym
phomania. Get Off is highly electric, 
full of throbbing bass, handclaps, whipcracks and honky tonk piano. The vocal 
arrangement pits the falsettos of the 
boys in the band against those of yowl
ing ladies.
Tenas Song is for those people who 
were disappointed by the failure of Dr. 
Buzzards Savannah Band to produce a 
Suitable follow-up to their spectacular 
debut album. Foxy, lacking a sound 
of its own, has managed to replicate the 
exact texture of Dr. Buzzards Cherchez 
La Femme: a blend of Le Jazz Hot with 
70s dance music.
Munich Machine. A Whiter Shade of 
Pale\Casablanca L.P.
While a number of European countries 
make a contribution to the music played 
in America's discotheques, Germanic Disco 
is by far the best. Giorgio Moroder, Donna 
Summer's producer, has updated Procul 
Harums symphonic-rock classic. (Giorgio 
gave a similar treatment to Nights in 
White Satin with himself as vocalist. 
The result was hard to take seriously but 
easy to dance to.) The product of Moroders tampering with A Whiter Shade of 
Pale is clean and contemporary; similar 
in texture to Summers I Feel Love. 
The sm okey-voiced Chris Bennett is 
featured as the lead vocalist.
Stealing a phone call isnt agame.
Most students play by the rules 
when placing a long distance 
call They take advantage ot bar
gain rates and make their calls 
dunng the discount penods It 
you're not sure when you can call 
at discount rates, check your 
phone book
A tew students think it's O K to 
break the rules by stealing their 
telephone calls They're not beat
ing the system they're taking 
advantage ot all ot us. because it 
dnves up the cost ol providing 
telephone service
Students who break the rules also 
run the nsk of paying a large tine 
Spending time in jail And getting 
themselves a perman'nt police 
record
It s just not worth it1
j
(2) Bell of Pennsylvania !

---------------------------------------------------

Homecoming '78 
October 21st 
and 22nd
Activities to include:
 Highlander Games,
 Torchlight Parade.
 Bonfire
 Pre-Game Parade
the planning starts now!
Meeting 
Today 4:30 at Alumni Office
(5th floor Warner Hall)
September 19, 1978TARTANpage 25
"Dance Of Death" a teaching experience
Strindbergs play not only centers 
on a tantalizing theme and makes use of 
dynamic dialogue, but affords the room 
for the directors and actors creative 
interpretations. The play has its own built 
in dramatic suspense, but it s the director, 
Walter Eysselinck, and the actors who 
capitalize on it with their precise timing.
Dance of Death is a dramatic achieve
ment in that each action builds and builds 
to a climatic peak with just the right 
breaks of humor. These lighter sections, 
often satirical, alleviate the tension just 
long enough to give that much more im
pact to the next climatic peak.
GomeJoinUs
atSKIBO48
Supported by Student Government
88.3 Fff!
LISTEN To YOUR 
RADIO STATION
Drama students especially will find 
this a rewarding production to attend. 
Dance of Death is not only a joy to watch, 
it is a lesson in what can be accomplished 
after many years of training. It can be an 
incentive for those who are wondering 
if all the work and agony are worth it. If 
the results will be anything like those 
exhibited in Dance of Death, there is 
no question, but that it is.
Not only the acting students can learn 
from this production though. Frederic 
Youens, scene designer and technical 
director; William Nelson, lighting designer; 
and Barbara Anderson, costume designer, 
all show themselves to be more than pro
ficient in their respective fields. CMU is 
quite lucky to have such talented and 
competent professors. Its no wonder that 
this school has graduated so many people 
who are now successful in the performing 
arts.
But whether youre a drama student or 
not, Dance of Death is certainly one pro
duction that no one should be willing to 
miss.
MS. JEANNETTE G. GRASSELLI
Supervisor of Molecular Spectroscopy - Standard Oil Company (Ohio)
Her talk will be
"The Power of Combined Techniques in Analytical Problem Solving"
Wed. Sept. 20. 1978 at 8:30 PM 
Duquesne University, Mellon Science Bldg.
Maurice Falk Lecture Hall 
MEETING FREE TO ALL INTERESTED
Hi Jewho can does. He who cannot teaches. 
Regretfully this is too often true, but three 
members of CMUs drama faculty proves 
Shaw wrong. James Baffico, Elisabeth 
Orion and Michael Pierce, all appearing 
in CMUs Theatre Companys produc
tion of Dance of Death, show themselves 
to be talented performers as well as good 
instructors.

---------------------------------------------------

page 26TARTAN-September 19,1978
iti 11 UJMTCJtt 1111 I MiaJjCBOEttCfcl ltfWWOBttj tCtASUM
Great Moments in the history of hear
ONE MILLION B.C. . .Blech, a 
Stone Age plumber, discovers a 
clump of matted fibers clogging a 
drain on a routine aqueduct re
pair job. He calls the substance 
hair.
thought this 
r insists Kneg,
"But we always 
stuff was feathers' 
his helper.
"Dummy", counters Blech. "If 
this was feathers, we'd be able to
Haircuts
(wash-cut-blow)
$10
fly like those pteradactyls".
With the discovery of hair, pluck
ing salons disappear. Philoso
phers have something to split in 
their search for Truth.
Now you can stop searching for 
the truth about your hair. Get a 
haircut you can fly with. No 
appointments required. For gals 
and guys.
Coloring
$25
Permanents
HPcnm9n&
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
Hooper, the new Burt Reynolds film 
and a breathtaking experience in the 
perilous profession of Hollywood stunt 
work, is playing at theatres in the Pitts
burgh area. Terry Bradshaw, Pittsburgh 
Steelers quarterback, makes his film 
debut as a S.W.A.T. officer who leads a 
rousing brawl against a group of stuntmen.
A story endowed with the very special 
brand of Burt Reynolds humor and roman
tics, Hooper co-stars Jan-Michael Vincent as 
a young threat to the throne of the 
greatest stuntman alive, and Sally Field 
as the girl who panics, comforts, counsels 
and makes love. ^
It presents a Series of spectacular 
stunts never before recorded on film, 
and shows how they are done and howQrA t 1C t11P tipi'll oo am
faces scarred and lives threatened.
Hooper, a Warner Bros, release, was 
directed by Hal Needham, for 20 years a 
leading Hollywood stuntman and now, by 
virtue of his success with Smokey and 
the Bandit, one of Hollywoods most 
successful new directors.
Besides Reynolds, Vincent and Field, 
Hooper stars Brian Keith as a man in whom 
Reynolds sees his future mirrored; Adam 
West, best known for his Batman role, 
as the Hollywood film idol for whom 
Reynolds does stunt work; John Marley 
as a fatherly film producer; Robert Klein 
as the egomaniacal director, and James 
Best as a fading stuntman. Country 
superstar Tammy Wynette has recorded 
a special song for the soundtrack of
Hnnrtpr
237 Atwood Street
Pgh.,Pa. 15213
687-3500
*N
$3.00 per hour to start
Apply to Univ. Food Servie 
in the Kiltie Cafe'
Employment Office.

---------------------------------------------------

CINEMA THEATRE
September 21
6,8, 10 PM
Suddenly Last Summer 
Admission $.75 with ID, $1 without
The best of the Tennessee Williams' 
films, Summers screenplay by Gore Vidal 
[comes through as a nightmare fantasy. 
Fraught with heavy symbolism and stark 
visual imagery, the film opens the play 
from the hot-house jungle garden of carjnivorous plants to a New Orleans insane 
asylum and the blazing white sun of Cabeza de Lobo...it's a hair raising tale in 
which Katherine Hepburn offers the asy
lum a million dollar endowment if the 
doctors will perform a lobotomy on her 
neice, Elizabeth Taylor...Montgomery 
Clift as one of the doctors, believes in Tay
lor's sanity and is suspicious of Hepburns 
motives. Both actresses received Oscar 
nominations for their performances under 
Joseph L. Mankiewicz direction.
September 22
6:30, 9:00, 11:30 PM, plus Saturday mati
nee at 2 PM
Looking for Mr. Goodbar
Admission $1 with ID, $1.25 without
Oscar winner Diane Keaton stars as The
resa Dunn, a young woman trying to break 
away from the claustrophobic atmosphere 
of her family in search of her own identity. 
She is a normal" schoolteacher by day, 
but by night she frequents singles' bars 
looking for action. One of her favorite 
spots is a place called Mr. Goodbar's 
There, one night, she meets her fate. Also 
starring Tuesday Weld and directed by 
Richard Brooks (In Cold Blood), this disIturbing film also boasts a powerful sound
track. Based on the Judith-Rossner best
seller.
SDC will show Funny Lady September 
23 in DH2210. The movie is free to stu
dents.
This coming week's Pittsburgh PlayI house Film Repertory includes: on Sept. 
j 19, Concert For Bangladesh; Sept. 20, 
fDemon Seed; Sept. 21, High Anxiety ) Sept.
5 22, Lady Sings the Blues', Sept. 23; Cries 
land Whispers; Sept. 24, The Turning 
l/Wwi; and Sept. 25, The Sting. Shows 
are nightly at 7:30 and 9:30 PM (with 
some second shows a little later.) Ad
mission is $2.00.
Surprise Voyage j a slapstick chase film, 
can be viewed September 23 at 2:30 PM 
in the Museum of Art Theatre for $1.
Mexican Busride will be shown Sept.
21 at 8 PM in the Lecture Hall. This next 
film in the directors series is also by 
Buuel. Admission is $1.
The Womens Committee of the Muse
um of Art, Carnegie Institute, will present 
a film series titled, China: The Enduring 
Heritage. The series begins on September 
19 and will continue thru October 12. 
Thirteen twenty minute films explore 
Chinas past from Peking Man thru 1911. 
Three films will be shown each session 
with four on the last date. Tickets for 
the entire series are $8 or $2 for indi
vidual films. Times for showings are 
Tuesday's at 5:30 and Wednesdays at 
1:30 PM in the Museum of Art Theatre. 
For more information call 622-3313.
There will be a free film in the Carnegie 
Museum of Natural History, Saturday at 
1 PM in the Lecture Hall. The film is
titled Fverglades/ Pelican Island: Monu
ments to the Mangroves.
Pittsburgh Filmmakers, 205 Oakland 
Ave., will show Japanese Avant-Garde 
Films. Part I will be presented September
19 and Part II on the 20th. Both showings 
are at 8 PM with admission $1 and $1.50 
respectively.
The CMU Theatre Company will present 
its first professional fall production of 
Striendbers The Dance of Death. It will 
run from September 12 through 23 in the 
Kresge Theatre on Campus. Tickets are 
$7.50, $6.50 and $5.50. For more informa
tion, call the CMU box office at 678-2407.
Pittsburgh Playhouse, 222 Craft Ave., 
will open its season September 16 with 
Private Lives at 8 PM. The show will run 
through October 1. For reservations call 
621-4445.
The Pittsburgh Public Theatre will 
present Blood Knot from September 
27 thru October 29. The stage produc
tion is a drama about the tangled iden
tities of two brothers set in modern South 
Africa. For more ticket information 
call 765-3500.
Camelot Productions will present Pippin 
beginning September 15 through October 
15 at Plaza Theatre, 4765 Liberty Ave. 
Performances are Fridays and Saturdays 
at 8:30 PM and Sundays at 7:30 PM. 
For reservations and ticket information 
call 683-7770.
Finnegans Wake will open Pittsburgh 
Laboratory Theatre's season. The stage 
version of James Joyces novel, adapted by 
Leon Katz will run from August 25 thru 
September 30. For ticket and time infor
mation call 6212876. Discounts are 
available for students and senior citizens 
making tickets $3 or $2 off the regular 
price.
Theatre Express will present The Unlit 
Corridor on September 14, 15, 16, 21, 22, 
23, 24, 28, 29, 30 and October 1. Student 
passes are available. For more information 
call 621-5454.
The King and I will be staged by the 
McKeesport Little Theatre on September 
15, 16, 17, 22, 23, 24, 29, 30, and Octo
ber 1, 6, 7, and 8. Reservations are neces
sary so call 673-1180.
Interested in acting? The South Alle
gheny Community Theatre will hold 
auditions for their up-coming production of Godspell. Auditions will be held Sep? 
tember 26 and 27 at 7 PM at the South 
Allegheny High School Auditorium. A 
Vocal selection should be prepared. 
Accompanists will be available. For more 
information call 678-1431.
ART
The Poster Gallery in Shadyside will 
present an exhibit of the works of David 
Goines. The show will open Friday, Sep
tember 22nd with times being 11 to 5:30 
PM, Monday through Saturday, with Wed
nesdays open till 9 PM. The gallery is lo
cated on Walnut St. above Pappa Joes. For 
more information call 682-2841.
MUSIC
AB Coffeehouse Committee will 
present Dick Pinney on Saturday, 
September 23rd at 9:30 PM in the 
Skibo Wherrett Room. Admission is 
free and open to the Campus Com
munity. Refreshments will be served.
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra 
will present Andre Previn, conducting; 
Robert Tear, tenor; Barry Tuckwell, 
french horn; Nathaniel Rosen, cellist; 
and Randolph Kelly, violist, on Sept.
22, 23, and 24. For subscription infor
mation call 281-8185.
Heinz Hall announces the appearance 
of Guy Lombardos Royal Canadians 
on September 24. The show will feature 
Lebert Lombardo, the brother of the 
late Guy Lombardo, and Lebert's son 
Bill. Curtain time is 7:30 PM with tick
ets $8, $7, and $6 on sale at Heinz Hall, 
Kaufmann's and Gimbels. For more 
information call 281-8185.
Electric Light Orchestra will appear 
September 25 at Civic Arena. For ticket 
information, call 471-1312.
On September 28, 29 and October 1, 
Isaac Stem, noted violinist, will return 
to Pittsburgh for guest performances 
with the Pittsburgh Symphony.
The Renaissance/ City Wind Ensemble 
will present a Fall concert on September
22 in the Alumni Concert Hall at 8 PM.
A total of $15,000 is available to young 
composers from the 27 Annual BMI 
Awards. Entrants must be under 26 years 
of age on December 31, 1978. No limita
tions are established as to instrumentation, 
stylistic consideration or length of work 
submitted. Students may enter no more 
than one composition, which need not 
have been composed during the year of 
entry. The competition closes February 15, 
1979. Official rules and entry blanks are 
available from James G. Ray, Jr., Director, 
BMI Awards to Student Composers, Broad
cast Music Inc., 40 West 57th Street, New 
York, New York 10019.
EVENTS
This year's Symphony Fashion Gala 
will be staged in Heinz Hall in two perfor
mances on September 21 at 1:30 and 8:30 
PM. Highlighted will be the fall collection 
of designer Oscar de la Renta. The event is 
co-sponsored by the Womens Association 
of the Pittsburgh Symphony Society and 
Joseph Horne Co. Proceeds benefit the 
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra. For ticket 
information call 2818185.
The Focus: Women on Women lecture 
series will return to Carlow College starting 
September 28 at 8 PM in the Kresge 
Theatre, Carlow College. The first speaker 
in the series will be Pauline Frederick, In
ternational Affairs Analyst for National 
Public RAdio and former UN corres
pondent for NBC. Tickets are $10 for the 
series of five lectures or $2.50 for individ
ual shows. For more information call 578- 
6093.
The Viola Farber Dance Company 
will appear at the Stephen Foster Me
morial Theatre on September 22 and
23. Curtain time is 8 PM. Tickets are 
$6.50 and $5.50. For more informa
tion call 355-0330.
Traditional Irish dancers will perform 
at the Museum of Art, Carnegie Insti
tute, on September 24 at 2 PM.
The Ice Capades will appear at the Civic 
Arena September 14 to 24. Admission 
ranges from $4 to $7. Times vary, so call 
the box office at 471-1312.
A short course in nature and field 
photography will be offered by the Section 
of Education of Carnegie Museum of 
Natural History. Sponsored by the Leonard
S, Mudge Environmental Education Pro
gram, the class will be held on Thursday 
evenings, starting September 26, and will 
be supplemented by one Sunday field 
trip. Paul Wiegman will be the instructor. 
Cost of the course is $40 ($35 for Institute 
members) which includes a text book on 
field photography, film and processing. For 
more information call 622-3283.
The Creative Recycling Center will 
present a prize of $300.00 for the best 
design of educational toy, play equipment, 
game, craft kit, or teaching aid made from 
discarded material. Entry deadline is 
October 11. Entry blanks and contest rules 
are available from the Creative Recycling 
Center, 4616 Liberty Ave. in Bloomfield 
or call 697-0900.
Forbes Street Gallery will present a 
print making, metal and illustration 
exhibit by G. Jerker, J. Sullivan, and 
P. Rosner on September 19 to 24. The 
opening will be Tuesday from 7 to 9 
PM. Other times the gallery will be 
open are 12 to 4 PM Wednesday thru 
Sunday and 7 to 9 PM Wednesday and 
Thursday.
The 24th Annual Type Directors Club 
Exhibit, illustrating the creative use of 
typography and calligraphy, will open 
September 18 at CMUs design depart
ment gallery. The exhibit is free and open 
to the public through September 29. The 
design department gallery is located on 
the third floor of Baker Hall and is open 
Monday thru Friday from 8:30 AM to 
4:30 PM.
Photographs by James Judkis will 
be on display at the Carnegie Museum 
of Art September 22 to November 26.
Through September 24, Photographs by 
Lewis Hine will be on display in the Mu
seum of Art, Carnegie Institute.
MISC.
DISCOUNT FUDWBS & PLANTS
4705 CENTRE ANUE N OAKLAND 
PITTSBURGH 41*687-4200
The International Poetry Forum will 
open its season on September 27 at 8 PM 
with Wendell Berry. The reading will be 
held at the Carnegie Lecture Hall. Tickets 
are $2.25 for students or $15.00 for season 
subscriptions.
^ J ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ Q J sfr ^ J J 3 ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^
THE PITTSBURGH CHAMBER MUSIC SOCIETY 
1978 - 1979 Season
NOVEMBER 6 JUILLIARD STRING QUARTET
DECEMBER 4 AULOS WOODWIND QUINTET
JANUARY 29 BORODIN PIANO TRIO
MARCH 26 GUARNERI STRING QUARTET
Carnegie Music Hall 
SPECIAL RATE FOR STUDENTS: $10.00 for the series (5 concerts)
3 SPECIAL STUDENT TICKET SALE Sept. 20 from 9:30 to 3:30 in Skibo Lobby 
  Thereafter tickets will be available at Skibo Information Desk
ID Cards must be shown.
paaaaaagaeaarEETI

---------------------------------------------------

PAMMOUftl PC'UfttSptVf*. A fRDCM FIELDS PWOUCTION
i LOOKING FOR MR GOODBAR *... DIANE KEATON]
TUESDAY WELD WILLIAM ATHERTON RICHARD KILEY RICHARD GERE e* FREDDIE FIELDS
Basrt or 'V non JUDITH ROSSNER *0 the Scffen and D*WJ Ot RICHARD BROOKSReaO 'he papeftack awiiatMe everywhere from Pcekef Books s >9? / ****'" cgrpow *<*:*
Soundtrxk !bum avdilaC^* DT Coi-J^iiR| RESTRICTED-^ j
FRIDAY, SEPT. 22 6:30( 9, 11:30 
SATURDAY, SEPT. 23 2:00 
DH2210 $1 W/ID
THE ROMAN CATHOLIC UNIVERSITY PARISH of the Diocese of Pittsburgh was created 
in 1967 to meet the special needs and aspirations of a seeking and learning community. Through 
worship, studyy prayer, and a wide program of other activities, The University Oratory seeks to 
serve the students, faculty , and staff of Camegie-Mellon University. This is YOUR Parish and 
represents YOUR effort to build a Christian Community!!!
Mass Schedule For the Fall Semester :
7:00 P.M.. SATURDAY ANTICIPATED FOLK MASS
10:30 A.M. SUNDAY MORNING FOLK MASS..................
12:00 Noon SOLEMN SUNDAY LITURGY........................
. . . Hunt Library Multipurpose Room (Enter Frew St.) 
. . . Hunt Library Multipurpose Room (Enter Frew St.) 
. . . Heinz Memorial Chapel
12:30 Noontime WEEKDAY MASS (Monday - Friday)CMU's Chapel (Skibo 39)
Campus becomes movie lot
by Hemerle Rhodes
Are you finding CMUs campus dull and 
uneventful? Well, what would you say if 
you heard that President Cyert had a horse 
die from a heart attack in his office? Thats 
exactly what happened to William Boyd, 
president of the University of Oregon.
Or, at least thats nearly what happened. 
In actuallity, the horse called Junior was 
only playing dead. It was all for a scene in 
the motion picture Animal House. The pic
ture was filmed in part on the Oregon 
campus causing just enough deviation from 
the norm to make things interesting.
Animal House is a loud and ribald com
edy about fraternity life and campus living. 
The story centers on the escapades of a 
group of fraternity men at an Eastern col
lege in 1962.
But even though the universitys con
tract with Universal stipulated that classes 
and other academic activities could not be 
disrupted, the filming did have certain 
fringe benefits for some.
Along with monitary benefits (the univ
ersity received $20,000 for the use of its 
campus and an estimated $5 million was 
spent locally by studio and crew), there 
were rewards of notoriety, experience and 
employment. Two off campus fraternities
permitted the use of their establishments 
to serve as those in the film and many stu
dents had their film debut by being extras. 
Two graduate film study students were 
even hired as full-time aides to the assistant 
director. Not only were they paid, but they 
received academic credit as well.
But even if CMU were given the chance 
to have a film made on its campus, I dont 
think things would be quite the same. 
Somehow, I find it highly unlikely that 
President Cyert would invite a horse up to 
his office in Warner Hall (dead or alive), 
nor can I believe that the registrars office 
would even consider giving academic credit 
for anything so frivilous as appearing in a 
motion picture.
Maybe its all for the best that CMU 
wasnt selected. The drama students would 
most likely be crushed if an electrical en
gineer got a part and they didnt. And then 
there would be the unanswerable question 
as to which fraternities would be chosen to 
serve as Omega House, the wealthy, re
spectable frat inhabited by future Nixon 
aides, and Delta House, the anarchic Animal 
House of the title.
Well, maybe theres still hope that The 
Fish That Saved Pittsburgh will save CMU 
from its mundane existence.
International Poetry Forum 78-79 Season
September 27 
Wendell Berry 
October 18
Andrei Voznesensky 
November 15
Word and Drum 
Tom Atkins 
Tbm LaFlame 
ecember 6
France of the Poets 
Wallace Fowlie
February 14 
Erica Jong 
March 7
Seamus Heaney 
March 28
R(>ger McGough 
Brian Patten 
April 18
Edward Braith waite 
Season subscriptions are $25, students' 
$15, and may be ordered from the Forum 
at Carnegie Library, 4400 Forbes Avenue, 
or call 621-9893.
ihe #1 best-selling novel is now a movie
The University Oratory 
of 
The Holy Spirit Parish
CMU UNDERGRADUATES AND FRESHMEN:OR JOIN US FOR
Come to the Oratory for a Celebration of Mass followed by Buffet 
Supper. If you are searching for a better understanding o the Catholic 
faith within a warm and friendly atmosphere, then join us each Thursday 
night for Mass or para-liturgy (prayer or Bible study).
MASS - BUFFET - DISCUSSION: THURSDAY 
SEPTEMBER 14.1978 6:30 P.M.
THE ORATORY: 4040 BIGELOW BLVD 
(Across from Schenley High School)
Charismatic Prayer Group Mondays 8:15 P.M.  Oratory 
Genesis II  Coming Sept. 26 at 8:00 P.M.
Graduate Students  Wednesdays at 8:00 P.M.
CMU Course. The Holocaust. Wednesdays 7-9:00 P.M. 
Folk Group Practice  Sundays 9:00 A.M.
Retreats, etc..etc.......etc...
To check times, places, and other information: Call
Father Bob English, CMU Chaplain 
Sister Bernadette Young, C.D.P.
(412)681-3181.

---------------------------------------------------

GameStatistics
Ohio 
CMU Wesleyan
Total First Downs1310
By Rushing76
By Passing53
Net Yards-Rushing13462
Attempts5149
Net Yards-Passing122111
Att./comp./intercept.20/7/126/1
No.of Punts/Av.per punt 8/33.69/3
Penalties :no./yds.4/602/7
No. fumbles/lost2/13/1
Net Return Yardage:
Interceptions00
Punts913
Kickoffs1167
Number Returned:
Punts65
Kickoffs14
Scoring: CMU Gasior 3 yd. run; Kostic
kick; First qtr.
CMU Harrison 3yd. run; Kostic 
kick; Second qtr.
CMU...................................7 7 0 0 14
owu...................0 0 0 0 0
Individual Leaders 
Rushing
Att. Yds.
Harrison 14 39
Gaisor 9 34
Kennedy 12 20
artans Shutout Bishops, 
Enter PAC Undefeated
The Tartans concluded the pre-season 
portion of their schedule on Saturday by 
blanking the Ohio-Wesleyan Bishops, 14-0. 
in three encounters with the Bishops, this 
is their first victory. The victory was more 
of a credit to the defense than the offense. 
CMU allowed only 62 yards rushing and 
111 yards passing while gaining 134 on the 
ground and 122 in the air. They held the 
Bishops to eight yards rushing in the 
second half. 
Bob Kennedy, Bob Gaisor, and Rick 
Leaman alternated quarters with Rick 
Brown, Jeff Harrison, and Perry Colosimo 
and split the scorirfg credits.
The first touchdown drive by Kennedy, 
Gaisor, and Leaman started on the Bishops 
49 yard line and went eight plays when 
Gaisor took it over on a three yard run. 
Mike Kosticks conversion attempt was 
good.
Rick Brown connected with Jeff Har 
rison on another three yard run for
second score of the afternoon. The play 
was the culmination of a 55 yard drive originating on the CMU 45 yard line.
Wesleyan was never a real threat to the 
Tartans, only managing to get inside the 
35 yard line three times. A penalty put 
them on the twenty but they were unable 
to capitalize.
The only other scoring opportunity for 
the Tartans came in the second period 
where they were in field goal position. The 
Tartans missed a 23 yard attempt.
The regular conference schedule opens 
this Saturday at home against Hiram.Action from last week's Cat State Game. TopCMU defense sacks Cal State quarterback. Below 
CMU quarterback Rick Brown tears through Cal State front line for a touchdown.
Pass Receiving
No.
Hladik 1Frye 3
DiGioia 1
Games 
broadcasted
Kirk Klingensmith, sports director of 
WRCT, Bill Gould (Herb Stencil), and Tom 
Yogan, will be broadcasting the Tartan 
Saturday afternoon football games. Pre
game starts at 1:15. WRCT can be located 
at 88.3 on your FM dial. (Those using 
Stereo receivers should switch to mono to 
pick up the Tartan action.)
Join us for three weeks of high excitement.Sure, well teach you basic wilderness skills.But the point is. well teach you how to cope with life wherever you live.You can learn you have the power to do almost anything you really want to do. Surprising, this new self-confidence.All this we call survival." And it might just last you a lifetime.
Photography Jonathan T Wright
Name
Street
City State Zip
School
Phone
Check the courses that interest you.
Canoeing ___ Desert expeditions___
White water Wilderness
rafting ___ backpacking ___
Sailing ___ Mountaineering ___
Outward Bound
The course that never ends
Send meOutward Bound. L>ept.
165 W. Putnam Ave., 
Greenwich.CT 06830.
Phone toll free (800) 243-8520.
No experience necessary.Outward Bound admits students of any sex. race, color and national or ethnic origin. We are a nonprofit organization. Scholarships available.
photos by R amanan

---------------------------------------------------

page 30TARTANSeptember 19,1978
',r  i
For the real beer lover.
CALL 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A
land. There will be a discussion on pre
race preparation, and a documentary film 
on Bill Rogers and his Boston Marathon 
victory will be shown.
For further information, contact: 
Pittsburgh Magazine-4802 Fifth AvenuePittsburgh, PA-15213.
by Howard Turner
The Great Pittsburgh Magazine Mara
thon will be held on Sunday, October 8 at 
North Park. The race will begin at 10 AM.
Over 3,000 runners are expected to par
ticipate in the first Great Pittsburgh Maga
zine Marathon. The marathon consists of a 
26 mile, 385 yard race with additonal fea
tures of 5 and 10 mile races.
The registration fee is $5, and $7 after 
the deadline which is September 25. Mara
thon participants receive an official mara
thon tee-shirt and a certificate with the 
runners name and finishing time. A pre
race clinic, which is free to all entrants, will 
be held Saturday, October 7 at 8:30 PM in 
Soldiers and Sailors Memorial Hall in OakHe drank all our Stroll s!? He really is abominable !
The City of Pittsburgh Department of 
Parks and Recreation will conduct a 
thirteen week Lifeguard Training Course 
beginning September 25 for city residents 
at CMU, 6:30-9:30 PM. This is a 39 
hour course designed to train future 
lifeguards. It place: concentration on 
four major areas: Advanced Lifesaving; 
Operation and Sanitation of the Pool; 
Organization and Administration, and 
Programming at the Site. Participants who 
successfully complete this course and 
fulfill the necessary requirements are 
eligible to apply for Civil Service Employ
ment as lifeguards at the City of Pittsburgh 
swimming pools.
Participants in the Lifeguard Training 
Courses are expected to supply their own 
bathing suits, towels, bathing caps and 
textbooks. There is no fee for registration 
or instruction.
To register for any of the Lifeguard 
Training Courses, either telephone the City 
of Pittsburgh Department of Parks and 
Recreation Swimming Pool Division at 
2552378 or the Oliver Bath House at 
431-9650 or attend the first session of the 
course at the desired location.
3000 run
Meckley 
Wins 100th
by Bernie Ivanschultz
The Carnegie-Mellon Cross Country 
squad opened its season on the right foot 
last Wednesday when they handily 
defeated Westminster. The Tartans 
defeated the Westminster Titans by a 
score of 23 to 33. It was the one 
hundredth career victory for Coach Gary 
Meckley. CMU was led by the duo of 
Dario Donatelli and Craig Woolheater who c 
tied for first while completing the rolling | 
six mile course in a record 32:12. |
The Tartans depth was quite evident ^ 
as Scott Kidd, Josh Medvin, Steve Bailey o 
and John Walcter finished fifth, seventh, J 
eighth and tenth respectively. The Tartans 
ran without the talents of Steve Falloon i 
and Jim Biery due to course requirements 1 
and Barry Vukoder due to injury. The 1 
Tartans travel to Allegheny tomorrow for 1 
a triangular meet with Bethany and A 
host Allegheny. Both teams promise to I 
be stronger than Westminster. The meet 1 
will provide the Tartans with a good T 
test of their early season conditioning.
Guards train here 1
Field hockey begins
The Womens Field Hockey Team opens 
their season at Washington and Jefferson 
on Thursday, September 21. Coach Jane 
Fisk is optimistic in her assessment of this 
coming season. With the return of many 
veteran players and the addition of several 
outstanding freshmen with field hockey 
experience, the team has improved a great 
deal. Last year they were defeated only by 
Bethany, who they play at home on Saturday, September 23. Coach Fisk believes * 
that if Bethany has not improved over last 
year, CMU has an excellent chance of being 
first in their league.
Be A Sportswriter 
For The TARTAN

---------------------------------------------------

September 19,1978-TARTAN-page 31
YOUR VOTE IS 
YOUR VOICE.
SAY
SOMETHING.
REGISTER 
HAND 
VOTE
Soccer
Ybur vole b your woke. Say something.photos by Brazelton
Co-captains Keith Hordat (top) and John Hunt 
lead the soccer team into their opening match 
against John Carroll on Saturday, September 23.
Homecoming '78 
October 21st 
and 22nd
Activities to include:
 Highlander Games,
 Torchlight Parade.
 Bonfire
 Pre-Game Parade
'the planning starts now! . . .
... be a part of it'
Meeting
Today 4:30 at Alumni Office
(5th floor Warner Hall)
I 
;! 
1Ml
ATTENTION SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING MAJORS!
The Air Force has openings for young men and women majoring in 
selected science and engineering fields. Like Aeronautical. Aerospace. 
General and Electrical Engineering. Mathematics. Physics and Com 
puter Technology.
To help prepare for one of these. Air Force ROTC offers two and 
four year programs of study which will defray some of your college 
costs.
After completion of the AFROTC requirement, and upon your grad 
uation. youll be commissioned an officer in the Air Force. Then comes 
responsibility, experience in your specialty with some of the best peo 
pie and facilities in the world, and a mission with a purpose. You'll get 
excellent starting salary, medical and dental care. 30 days of paid va 
cation beginning your first year, and more.
Look into the Air Force ROTC program right away. See whats in it 
for you See how you can serve your country in return Youll be glad 
you put your major to work on a job that really counts.
VV svm mourns
ROTC
Gateway to a great way of life.

---------------------------------------------------

Register Now! 
BACK TO TECH TRADITIONS 
Homecoming *78!
Friday, October 20,1978 
Highlander Games  12:30 - 2:30p.m.
Test your skill and strength in these ancient Scottish 
games. The Caber Toss, Tug of War, and Hammer Throw 
will all be featured, and prizes will be awarded to the 
winner in each category.
Rules and application forms are available in the SARC 
Office, 505 Warner Hall. Application deadline: Friday, 
October 13,1978.
f -
Saturday, October 21, 1978
Homecoming Parade  Floats  12:30 p.m.
Get out your hammers, saws, and nails for this event! 
For the first time in ten years there will be a Homecoming 
Float Contest with a grand prize of a $150 gift certificate 
from Victoria Beverage. Then march into the stadium 
with the Kiltie Band and alumni classes for the CMU vs. 
Allegheny game. Float building is a great old Tech 
tradition  older than even Carnival  so get out those 
tools and start building today!
All entries must fill out an application by Friday,
October 13,1978.
