Special Spring Carnival Issue
Vol. 69, No. 46C-MUTUESDAY, APRIL 14, 1970
The Tartan needs copies of back is
sues No. 27 and 31. If you have co
pies, please drop them off so we can 
complete our files.
Campus Protest Grows
(CPS)'Major incidents" of campus protest have occured at the 
rate of one a day during the first quarter oil970. according to the 
Urban Research Corporation. Although some consider this academic 
year more calm than last, the statistics show that 92 campuses exI perienced major unrest this winter compared to 88 during the same 
period last year. The protests were not significantly less violent' than 
last year nor did they draw fewer participants, according to John Naisbitt, president of Urban Research. He said violence occured in 23 per 
cent of this years winter protests and 20 per cent of last years. The 
major issues have been minority recognition, quality of student life, 
greater student voice in decision making, and the war and military. 
The environment has not yet been a major source of protest. The larg
est number of protests have taken place in Ohio. New York. Michigan. 
Massachusetts and California, with every section of the country ex
periencing some protest.
April 
Action
The following it . schedule of event* on and around April
15 at which you can demonstrate your oppoisition to the Second 
Indo-China War. Now is the time to stand up and be counted 
before "Vietnamization" kills you.
"TartnEd iolBd uTnseEO f.cc 2315Newsreel films Columbia, 
Vietnam North, and ROTC.
sSaskS.O bTearatd 10erc 3Cd g 1-b-d nseesEE MTTUd vyr,T 
Rims, same as Tuesday night.
sSaskS.Od 11 .-U- ET 3 0-U-Pha grass in front of Skibo (in 
Skibo Lobby in case of rain). Rally-Forum with speakers 
from the Black Panthers Party, Repression Information Serv
ice Committee (RISCS), Welfare Rights, War Tax Resistance, 
Women's Liberation, Ecology Action, Gulf Action Project, 
and others, plus Guerilla Theatre and folk singing.
3 5-b-Gather on cut for march downtown to rally at Point 
State Park.
"n2ekS.Od 10erc 3pAniti-corporate actions that will be re
vealed on Wednesday.
"n2ekS.O artnEd i 0-U-Teach-In on Gulf Oil and planning 
meeting for future actions such as Gulf Stockholer's meet
ing on April 28. Room 45 Skibo.
Student Senate Passes 
Student Union Proposal
(Editor's Note: In a Student Sen
ate meeting two weeks ago, SG 
President Patrick Cavanagh made 
a motion urging Senate to form an 
internal committee to work on the 
incorporation of SG, and the acquir
ing of facilities to be under the 
autonomous control of SG. The mo
tion was tabled for careful consi
deration by the Senate. At the next 
meeting the motion was untabled 
and passed. Carter Allen was elect
ed as chairman of the "Student Un
ion Committee." Since it is felt that 
the formation of such a Student Un
ion is a very important issue, the 
following interview was conducted 
for the Tartan by Vince Misitano, 
chairman of the Senate Publicity 
Committee.)
Vince: What would you envision 
the Student Union to be. facilitywise. that is. what kind of physi
cal arrangement would it have?
Pat: The idea is that we need 
some facilities  room, offices, 
etc. that we have autonomous con
trol over, and won t have the ad
ministration double-checking to 
find out what kind of meetings 
we re holding there and whether 
they agree with the purpose be
hind the meeting, as they did with 
the April Action Conference. So. 
whether we get part of the new 
Skibo extension, or whether we 
get rooms in the present Skibo. or 
whether we get an off-campus 
building isn t really too important 
until we work out which is more 
leasible. What is important is that 
we get facilities of our own.
Vince: Are student run unions 
common in American universi
ties?
Pat: No. the standard Ameri
can university has an administra
tion-funded and staffed activities 
center. The feeling is that this can 
provide a wider range of better 
managed activities for the stu-* 
dents. In England and Canada, the 
approach is the other way around. 
They have, for the most part, stu
dent owned, student run societies 
that are very successful in serv
ing the students.
Vince: Do you know of any 
American universities with this 
setup, or is C-MU to be pioneer in 
this endeavor.
Pat: As far 'as I know Penn 
State has a student coop. I don't 
know what buildings it has. or 
whether it runs its own staff or 
not. Other than that I'm not sure. 
Mr. McCurdy has mentioned that 
that was the only one he was 
aware of.
Vince: Do you have any idea 
how we can go about obtaining this 
Student Union for C-MU. or what 
troubles we would run into?
Pat: Mmmmmmmmmmm.
Vince: Certainly you don't think 
it will be easy?
Pat: First of all if we are going 
to have buildings that we are go
ing to own. or even parts of a 
building that we own and are leg
ally responsible for managing, we 
need to be a legal entity. So we'd 
have to incorporate Student Gov
ernment. which has other advan
tages. That s the first thing we d 
have to do. Then we could request 
that the administration give us 
part of the present Skibo. We 
could try to save part of the Stu
dent Activities fee each year, and 
put that down as finance on acquir
ing off-campus facilities, a house 
perhaps. But if we wanted to have 
a large portion of the Skibo exten
sion as the Student Union (and I 
think this is the most feasible 
plan), we could agree to some 
sort of financing scheme with the 
administration where they per
haps increase the activities fees 
by $10 from the $20 it is now That 
$10 a year per student would be 
applied to financing the new Skibo 
extension. Part, or all of the ex
tension would then be student own
ed. The administration has to 
raise four million dollars for it 
from the alumni, and they're hav
ing trouble doing that. This may 
be a way of raising more money 
lor them and they might be inter
ested in this sort of a plan.
Carter: Of course, what they ve 
been doing when they give us more 
money is also giving us more re
sponsibilities and more things 
that we have to spend it for.
Pat: You have to realize that if 
we start running a student union 
we take over a lot of expenses that 
they have to pay. and are very 
costly to them, like staffing, maintanence. Mr. McCurdy's student 
activities office; all of these ex
penses would then come under 
students. So they ve just effecttively switched money they al
ready spend to the students, and 
the students would hire the stu
dent activities staff. Then you 
wouldn t have the problem that 
the Student Activities staff has 
nowthat they're trying to serve
Aprilciton ri Newo PNew Pre-Registration Policy
In an attempt to help students 
make firm commitments regard
ing course selections for the Fall 
Semester. 1970. and also to give 
academic departments informa
tion regarding course demands, 
the Educational Policy Council, on 
March 9. voted the following:
All presently enrolled day un
dergraduate and day graduate stu
dents who plan to return for the 
fall semester must complete the 
academic portion of registration 
during a day this spring.-
The implementation of the 
above procedures is as follows:
1. Schedules of classes will be 
available in academic depart
ments during the week of April 
20-24.
2. Academic departments will 
be set up in the gymnasium to
handle course section enrollment 
on Wednesday. April 29. between 
the hours of 1 p.m. and 5 p.m. and 
6:15p.m. to 9p.m.
3. Since no provision has been 
made tor cancelling classes on 
this day. students will necessar
ily have to arrange securing of 
four approved schedule cards 
from department advisor who will 
reatain one schedule card and ap
pearance in the gymnasium where 
section enrollment will be com
pleted.
4. In addition to the approved 
schedule, it will be necessary that 
students bring to the gymnasium 
the student master card that must 
be picked up on Thursday. April
23. or Friday. April 24, in the 
Multi-Purpose Room in the Base
ment of Hunt Library from 8:30
a.m. to 5 p.m. For students who 
may be contemplating or are in 
the process of making departmen
tal changes, it will not be neces
sary to have these master cards 
changed for this purpose.
5. At the end of the pre-registration line, photographs will be 
taken and signatures obtained to 
permit advance processing for 
new permanent ID cards to be is
sued beginning in the fall of 1970
6. During the summer, instruc
tions will be sent to outline the 
procedures necessary to complete 
registration and fee settlement, 
and for making any needed 
changes. Students who have com
pleted the ID card processing on 
April 29 will be issued their cards 
at completion of fee settlement in 
September.
Tartan Staff Meeting . . . April 15, Wednesday, 
at 8:00 p.m. All Present staff and anyone who 
wants to work on the paper next year.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2THE TARTANTuesday, April 14, 1970
EDITORIAL
Here it is friends, the first editorial from the sucker they 
got to be editor next year. So lets hear it, one big chorus: SO 
WHAT!
Its spring, the weather is nice, finally. Classes end and 
exams start in less than three weeks. Everyone wants to get the 
semester over with and get out of here. Summers coming and 
we can all forget'school for three and a half months. So who 
wants to do anything but get out in the sun, right!
Wrong, because when you come back next fall the same old 
bucket of merde will be here to greet you. The same intense 
boredom; the same dumb courses; the same feeling of being 
processed by a machine. More of the same everywhere. Unless, 
maybe, possibly you could decide to change things.
But why bother? This place has alwasy been a sort of back
water. None of the big bands ever come here. The faculty is 
pretty transient.
Just have some beer or blow a joint and forget 
that youre spending four or more years here getting a funny 
little piece of paper. Maybe youll even find a professor you 
want to work with, if he doesnt have to leave because he spends 
too much time on his teaching.
At some point, if you stand back and look at what you are 
doing hour by hour, day by day, you realize that you live here. 
If you are a full time student you spend most of your waking 
hours here. No, you dont live with mom and dad in Connecticut, 
or in Chevy Chase, or in Sewickley. You live here. The spotlight 
comes on and Ralph Edwards says: This is your life. It isnt 
postponed until graduation. If you dont participate in this com
munity, you wont know how to in any community.
So if you dont want to come back to more of thesame next 
year, find something you can do that turns you on, here, where 
_you live, and do it. Like finding out where the money you pay 
this place goes and making it work for you.
FREE GIVE-AWAY 
We are now in a position to offer, free, to anyone who 
wants it, an established, fully funded, monthly magapaper 
for next year. Yes friends; you guessed it, "ns Msc.Er:s "e2En 
is now in need of a new staff. This little journalistic gem has 
already got an approved budget for next year from Student 
Government, a loyal following of readers (all 12 of them, 
bless their sOulds), and a growing reputation for obscenity, 
rabidity, and some slight relevance. Yes folks, here is the op
portunity of a lifetime, a golden opportunity to express 
yourself, shock your friends, and ruin yourself socially. This 
little paper with a heart is just looking for someone to take 
it over, and maybe even make it into something respectable. 
If you have any ideas about what could be done with "ns 
Msc.Er:s "e2End contact the editor in the ".eE.a office or leave 
a note in the box at the information desk.
New College Dean Steinberg 
"A Forbidden Fruit"
Editor the Tartan:
It comes as an admittedly less 
than crucial blow to my apa
thetic equilibrium to discover 
that, as the hardships and selfpity of this hardest-to-date win
ter fade, my heart turns not to 
the traditional love of man for 
woman, but to a more current 
and more compelling love of 
man for a change. Let me has
ten to add that my love is not 
of change for the sake of change: 
nor do I suggest that we aban
don our cities, our civilization, 
and our toilets to return to the 
days when men ate raw meat 
and forbidden fruit.
Such a forbidden fruit is 
Erwin R. Steinberg. Dean of 
the College of Humanities and 
Social Sciences, the latest addi
tion inumber seven for regis
tration) to Jhe University of 
Carnegie-Mellon (the new 
computer sciences building not 
included. of course). Dean 
Steinberg (one of a few sur
vivors of an earlier edition, 
the iMargeret Morrison Carnegie 
College for Women) continues 
to ignore the ebbing of tired 
traditions to which he clings; 
traditions that describe the 
function of an academic dean 
as that of the final authority 
on matters concerning the no
menclature of the mind of a 
gentleman, arbiter of disputes, 
the one who can define love
and art and count the number 
of times each appears in Joyce's 
Ulysses.
Guided by traditions of the 
same since departed derivation. 
Dean Steinberg (a committee of 
the College Council over which 
he presides, it you wish) had 
decided that an out-dated policy 
which dictates the firing of in
structors with M.A. degrees after 
three years of teaching, and an 
outrageous corelation between 
a teacher's publishing ability 
and his teaching ability are 
adequate grounds for the dis
missals of at least two teachers: 
worse, two teachers who enjoy 
a great deal of respect among 
their students and colleagues 
alike. The mere fact than an 
administrator feels able to make 
such decisions without giving 
overwhelmingly primary con
sideration to the men's teaching 
ability (as guaged by their stu
dents and colleagues), seems to 
me to be more than adequate 
grounds for a comprehensive re
view of the effectiveness of 
that administrator, his policies, 
and his traditions.
The dismissals of James Hastie and James Myers (both 
teachers in the English Depart
ment) were grave mistakes. 
Those responsible should be 
made to correct their mistakes 
or be replaced. gob Kuiper
Architecture Dept.
1 %t
Near Breakdown
The Department of Architure Student Advisory Committee 
met last Sunday night to formu
late plans for the creation of an 
Ad-hoc student-faculty commit
tee to reconstruct the department. 
This is the latest and. say the 
committee members, the last at
tempt they will make to create a 
place for architectural education 
at C-MU.
The present crisis situation be
gan in February when students 
met in a general gripe session 
which dealt with outstanding 
problems in the new curriculum. 
The architects decided that a 
piecemeal approach to depart
ment problems would not solve 
the basic issues of student-direct
ed education and low teaching 
quality and content. They then 
proposed to the head of the depart
ment. Del Highlands, that a 50-50 
student faculty ratio on depart
ment committees would provide 
for student participation and in
put. This proposal was rejected by 
Highlands on the grounds that he 
didn't want to be run." He issued 
a set of guidelines for student par
ticipation in department decision 
making which put students in an
advisory capacity and permitted 
seating on faculty committees 
(without vote) with permission of 
the committee's chairman.
The situation became explosive 
when students discovered that se
cret committee meetings had been 
held over Easter vacation in which 
the faculty decided to curtail the 
community design option in the 
curriculum. The uproar over the 
decision and the manner in which 
it was reached led to student de
clared "moratorium ' on all de
partmental activities, including a 
boycott of classes which was sub
scribed to by 66 signees on April 1.
During the moratorium, meet
ings were held between students 
and faculty to explain the student 
position and a general agreement 
was reached to restructure the 
department, centering on stu
dents having voting representa
tion on departmental committees.
However, tempers flared again 
on Friday. April 10. when a facul
ty meeting attended by students 
voted to agree in spirit with stu
dent participation but failed to es
tablish a mechanism for accom
plishing this. The faculty voted to 
hold a meeting of all committee
chairmen, which was closed to 
students despite the motion they 
had just passed and despite stu
dent requests to be present. The 
closed meeting was to decide what 
roles students were to have in 
each committee. This meet^ig 
was scheduled a week and a half 
nearer the end ot the semester, 
even though students objected to 
the delay.
On Sunday night, radicals in the 
department were in favor ot an 
immediate strike to emphasize 
the importance of defining the 
structure of the department be
fore student assignments wve 
made.' They argued that comrmf 
tee participation was meaningless 
if the faculty could meet indepen
dently and reject committee rec
ommendations. or if the depart
ment head could veto resolutions.
Moderates pleaded for one more 
orderly attempt at solving the 
problem and so the students de
cided to nominate student mem
bers to an ad hoc committee, to^Sb 
made up of students and faculty, 
which would be charged with re
solving the problems, its decisions 
to be binding on both the faculty 
and the students.
i,i;i ri:iis (C (PS) 'MP(Ca
Student Motives Questioned Re H&SS
Editor. The Tartan:
The controversy over course 
requirements brings into question 
the meaning of a University de
gree. The diploma reads '. . 'i on 
recommendation of the Faculty. " 
This phrase is open to interpreta
tion. To me it means that the stu
dent has, in the eyes of the faculty, 
acquired a certain minimum 
realm of knowledge plus. The 
holder of the diploma can reflect, 
at least to this minimum, the 
knowledge and capabilities of the 
granting faculty. If this minimum, 
the knowledge and capabilities of 
the granting faculty. If this mini
mum cannot be guaranteed, then 
of what value is the diploma? How 
is an otherwise uninformed ob
server to judge the meaning the 
diploma (which in itself is a piece 
of paper).
Michael Pollack asks. Can 
there really be any doubt as to the 
value of a course chosen by the 
student himself as opposed to one 
which is forced upon him . . .?* 
My answer is. "Yes. there is a 
doubt. " I make the following pre
sumption. which is open to debate. 
A large number of students at 
American universities today are 
there to < 1) get a high paying job 
after graduation, or (2) becuase 
of social pressures. The former is 
usually found in engineering, the 
latter in liberal arts. I further 
postulate that these students, due 
to a lack of motivation, go to great 
pains to do a minimum of work to 
attain their degree. Certainly not 
all students fall into this category, 
but I contend a large number do. 
The purpose of course require
ments now takes on added meanWrite-In Richard Mellon
Dear Tartan:
We are asking the students at 
C-MU to write-in the name of Rich
ard King Mellon for Spring Car
nival Queen
Power to the Powerful.
Committee to 
Promote Mondarchy
P S.: Rich Power.
TDRlQN
Published every Tuesday and Friday
Editorial and Business OfficesSkibo 103 
Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213Telephone: 682-4557
DAVE CANEY, Editor-in-Chiet
Associate Editor.............................................................................................. Chuck Daly
Business Manager Beverly Noretsky
Managing Editor Wayne Barron
Desk Editor Barbara Hobbs
Sports Editors Alan Letxt and Larry Brean
WALLY S SHOES
3612 Forbes St. MU2-2928
Popular Price-Famous Makes 
Men-Women Casual and Dress Shoes
ing. Students looking for the easy 
way outwill be foreced to meet 
the minimum levels of knowledge 
or flunk out.
The faculty has a reputation to 
uphold, and by destroying it, st 
dents can only reduce the meanin 
of their degree. Let me remind the 
student body that it is not the only 
part of the University community 
and is certainly not the center of 
that community. The University 
exists for the faculty and for stu
dents. and the consideration of 
both must be taken into account. 
Let me also point out that the stu
dent body is the most transient 
part of the University. I do not 
mean to belittle the role of the 
student body but merely wish to 
put it in perspective to reality.
In conclusion, let me say that 
course requirements should be 
flexible and constantly reviewed 
to allow them to best serve the in
terest of students and faculty 
alike, but should not. in the best 
interest of all concerned, be aban*' 
doned.
Joseph Rinde 
Graduate Student 
Department of 
omputer Science
Anti-Israel Lit.
Editor. The Tartan: ^
The following is a letter issued 
to the Pittsburgh Chapter of the 
Young Socialist Alliance: 1
The Students for Israel of C-MU 
are concerned by your dissemina
tion of anti-Zionist literature at I 
the Resistance Conference of 
April 3-5 at C-MU. We feel that 
despite what good intentions you 
may possess, you are misinformw ] 
ed about the State of Israel.
Therefore, in the interest ot 
truth, we invite you to a public 
discussion of the matter. We sug
gest the date of Sunday. April 19. 
at 8 p.m. in the Wherret Room at 
C-MU's Skibo
If you accept this invitation, we 
intend to provide three spokes
men for our point of view. ^
Bernard Dubb 
Students for Israel

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, April 14, 1970THE TARTANPage 3
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
Editor. The Tartan:
I make no pretense in representing a public opin
ion ot "where you're at " ... or a collective opinion, 
in fact. These words are individually concenved. 
though, hopefully. I believe others are at least with 
me in spirit.
 For the last few months a great deal of work had 
-been put into a project designed to bring the present 
*day environmental situation into the Pittsburgh com
munity's eye.  Environment Pittsburgh " grew consid
erably thanks to the efforts and determination of CMU 
students George Morris. Bill Benton. Chuck Pettis. 
Fritz Faulhaber. and CMU faculty members such as 
Chuck Waldek. Sharon Keeton, and most principally. 
John Paskiewicz. Their collective efforts and ideas 
were further aided by the efforts and ideas of those 
CMU students who saw the importance of the project 
to be of a significant enough value to shelve their cur
rent personal endeavors in order to devote practically
* full time for a good deal more than a week to this 
cause. Offhand. I cannot recall all of around one 
hundred CMU students' names, so to all those who 
made the  domes'' go from a possibility to an actu
ality, my apologies for not personally influencing 
your name to be published in your school newspaper.
Anyway, despite the fact that certain CMU ad
ministrative 'leaders' really did not give a damn until 
after the project was completed, and now are taking 
the responsibilities unto themselves as to what to do 
C-vith the art work of others; and despite the fact that 
the Gods were against us (rain. snow, and 50 mph 
winds in the same April week, Zeus?: and despite 
whoever felt it necessary to throw a toy dart into one 
of the inflatables  we made the project, and we feel 
we made it a goddamn success on top of that!
We also made The Tartan. It s not every day that a 
group of students of a college campus can erect an 
enormous set of geodesk and inflatable domes on their 
campus in an attempt to heighten the community's
awareness to the environmental problem of that day and 
get only a half-assed photograph and 35 (count'em) 
words to cover the affair. But April 3rd was not every
day. and the Carnegie-Mellon Tartan is not just any 
paper, mind you. (Thanks for at least getting us on the 
front page.) So much for Tartan issue number 43. but 
issue number 44 which followed on Tuesday. April 7th 
was even more incredible: Not only were the CMU
environmental freaks barely mentioned in the Friday 
issue, but now they are attacked by a University of 
Pittsburgher named Eric Fuarmann. who quotes earth
ly Time magazine, but also by you. our school news
paper editor. Jennifer. It's all too much. Dear Miss Digby, despite the fact that 1 raped the CMU lawn be
tween Baker and Doherty Halls I didnt cross state 
lines with that intent in mind. And Dear Eric, the
grass is not totally ruinednature in its own little 
way will reproduce and sooner than you think you can 
once again enter that area on campus and groove on 
the CMU grass/ You ask of what value were the
Booths? Well, despite the weather which destroyed
most ot them before they even were wlrking to the 
peak ot their performance, the inflatable domes were 
a kind of trip through the different environments. 
Polluted packages, the bombarding rays of the TV tube, 
and a little green garden were there to bring it all to
gether; for you to experience directly through your 
own private little sensory pores. All the work done 
inside was unimaginative and ineffective, you say? 
Do you really mean it? I mean, didnt Siegels pollu
tion tub, or Bogarts TV tubes, or all that aromatic flo
wered oxygen in the last inflatable do anything to 
you? Anything? Well, Eric, I guessed were going to 
have to work harder nest time, cause we didnt seem 
to get rhrough to you. Sure, I agree with you in fact, 
that all one has to do is to look around him and see 
the nasty smoke stacks and breathe the fouled air, and 
taste the polluted water, and eat the plastic food,  
but most people do that, and still wont get off theirs 
to do somethingANYTHING to aleviate the situation.
Most people think that the problems in this country are 
somebody elses fault. 1 dont know what youve done 
Eric, except write to the Tartan about it all being 
Bullshit, but I for one believe that if youre gong 
to change something, youve got to get the masses of 
people to change it and not until it effects each and 
everyone personally and significantly enough will it be 
changed. How to change an obvious wrong is up tothe indivi 
dual, but many of us who worked on the 
Environmental Tech-In believe that education is one of 
the best methods, and as artists, many of us also sub
scribe to the notion of education through entertain
ing your head with our media. You can listen to all 
the speakers speak, and be motivated to do something. 
If it works on you, fine. Dig it! But if youre tired of 
listening to the straight forward DDT and Strontium-90 
raps, and need a light show, strobes, sound, and flow
ers, and pot-hole movies (plug) to effect your senses 
into a realization of whats going on within you and 
without you, thats equally valid. Its not how you 
get there thats important . . . Whats important is 
that you get there. Watts said that.
My apologies to the thousands who feel that we 
have raped Mother Earth in an effort to save her. 
Pittsburgh is as dear to me as it is to those who will 
eternally condemn what we did in an effort to make 
the people aware that they may not be around very 
long 
Hypocrities, all of us,  all who came together in 
Washington last November is to give Peace a Chance, 
but who couldnt ... all of us who came together at 
CMU, between Baker and Doherty Halls last week to 
give Earth a Chance, but who oonlysucceeded in giv
ing the Tartan, who never really has been with us, a 
chance to make negative our efforts. Dear Eric and 
Jennifer, please forgive us for our rape. We were, 
unfortunately, only trying to do something positive. 
Anyway, thats my opinion.
Richard G. Braverman
T Comment On The War-1 ts Getting Worse
by JOHN AGATSTEN
On October 15th about one 
thousand CMU students and 
teachers marched against the
war singing "All we are saying declared^ war in Laos is fought 
"is give peace a chance. In re- *
lem spot in Southeast Asia. We 
see the developments in Laos 
very similar to those in Vietnam 
before the escalations. Our  unsponse to this the Nixon admin
istration has done the follow
ing:
In Vietnam, the bombing in
tensity has stayed at about the 
ame level and new countries have 
been found to bomb. The des
truction of Vietnam (both en
vironmental and in terms of hu4man lives) increases as politi
cians hope to divert student 
energy away from the war is
sue and towards pollution (as if 
the two issues can be separated). 
The administration's use of 1984 
Doubletalk increases with new 
terms like Vietnamization and 
combat deaths (we now talk 
about 40.000 combats deaths as 
opposed to 48.000 deaths of Am
erican s both combat and non
combat  are added to terms such 
as pacification, strategic ham
lets and others. Vietnamization 
is described best by those who 
should know best. Senator High 
Scott speaking for the Nixon ad
ministration said the goal of Vi
etnamization was to workout a 
Korean type settlement which 
would enable them to withdraw 
Enough troops to by-pass the 
mounting anti-war sentiments of 
American people and yet keep 
' enough troops there to insure 
U.S. control. All the govern
ment plans for Vietnam asj sume the U.S. will be in Viet
nam for at least five more years. 
Ellsworth Bunker. U.S. ambassa
dor to Saigon described Vietnajmzation by saying. We want 
*o change the skin color of the 
corpses but the war will continue 
on to victory.
Vietnam is not the only probwith "advisers" and "reconnais
sance flights" which are cam
ouflaged semantics for " combat 
troops" and combat air strikes." 
The citizenry of our country 
were not told of the initial casualities which were lumped in 
with those in Vietnam. The U.S. 
is now starting to make refugees 
out of much of the Laotian popu
lation as they have done with a 
large percentage of the South 
Vietnamese population (saying 
that the people are fleeing from 
Communist tyranny"). In addi
tion to Vietnam and Laos we find 
ourselves involved in Cambodia. 
The U. S. helped instigate a 
right-wing military takeover of 
the government because its lead
er Sihanouk (who was described 
by Senator Mansfield as being 
the true leader of Cambodia > 
was too neutralist So the gov
ernment under millionaire Lon 
Nol which has murdered 103 
anti-government demonstrators 
and which has massacred Cam
bodians of Vietnamese descent 
was recognized by the U.S. gov
ernment first. Instead of phasing 
out of Southeast Asia the Nixon 
Administration is just getting 
into it
Southeast Asia is not the only 
place where things are getting 
worse largely because of our 
Government. Inflation in this 
country is making more and more 
clear who is paying for the wars 
and who is profiting. During the
1960 s. after taxes, corporate pro
tits rose 160 percent faster than 
the weekly take home pay of the 
average wage earner. Workers 
used to pay 45 percent of the 
lederal taxes while corporations
paid 55 percent. Today workers 
pay 68 percent and corporations 
only 32 percent. And where do 
the taxes go? About 15 percent 
goes to health, education and 
welfare programs and 70 percent 
goes to pay for past, present, 
and future wars. Yet when it 
comes to fighting inflation Nix
on makes cuts from the badly 
needed 15 percent and not the 
wasteful 70 percent (although 
Nixon will do some reclassifying 
to make it papear as if he is cut
ting the budget). So we find that 
the welfare bill that Nixon is 
pushing through Congress which 
will give a family of four $1600 
a year is a reduction in 40 states 
and specifically in Pittsburgh a 
reduction of $320 dollars. It 
should be noted that Pittsburgh 
pays through taxes each year 
$366,000,000 for the war inVietnam. This money is enough 
to buy 18 1000 bed hospitals.
26.000 housing units and 9000 
classrooms. (Remember this is 
only for the money going to 
Vietnam annually. The money 
going to the military on the 
whole is about three times this 
and taking a five year period 
since classrooms housing units 
etc. don't have to be completely 
replenished we can multiply 
this figure by (3x5- > 15). It
should be noted, however, that 
when the war in Vietnam ends 
this money is planned to stay in 
the military. And what does the 
military do with much of the 
money? It gives it to corpora
tions like General Dynamics. 
General Motors. Genersl Elec
tric (the three most powerful 
generals in the military). RCA. 
Boeing. United Aircraft and 
many others So we see the mili
tary and large industries are 
made for each other (the mili
tary-industrial complex and 
not for the great majority (silent
or otherwise who pay both in 
follars and in blood. (H. Guyford Stever. President of CMU. 
is chairman of the President's 
Air Force Advisory Board and 
has been on the Board of Direc
tors of United Aircraft, the fifth 
largest war contractor (war pro
fiteer in the country. Not ex
actly what one would call 
checks and balances.) When it 
comes to pollution Corporations 
whose profits (after taxes) have 
increased 94.5 percent in the 
last decade tell us that the con
sumer will have to pay to clean 
up the pollution through higher 
prices (not quite anti-inflationary.
That was the administrations 
reaction to those of us who said, 
"all we are saying is give peace 
a chance" and then went home 
and hoped for the best. This
time let us go back out on to the 
streets and not just ask for peace, 
freedom, equality and all those 
other words that are just words, 
and then go home but let us 
stay out there and persist 
until words like peace, fredom 
equality, decent housing, sisterbrotherhood become a reality 
and words like war rascism, 
chauvinism, alienation, repres
sion only exist in history books 
and old films. Nixon has had 
the chance he never should have 
been given in the first place. 
Whether you have been a mem
ber of the silent majority or sil
enced minority join millions of 
Americans on April 14th and ltth 
tand everyday after) calling for 
immediate and total withdrawal 
of U.S. troops and material 
from Southeast Asia and a rear
ranging of our nation's prioriIMPORTANT AND SPECIAL 
FOR TOMORROW!The demonstration called for to
morrow by students for Peace at 
the Placement Office has been can
celled. The Institute for Defense 
Analysis, hearing of the planned 
demonstration, cancelled their 
scheduled visit.
CAROL IS CUl I

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4THE TARTANTuesday, April 14, 1970
Activities Board Organizes
by BILL IACONO 
Director Activities Board
Although we may all take 
Homecoming, Spring Carnival, 
coffee houses, and TGIFs for 
granted, without the Activities 
Board they would not exist. In 
its first year the Activities 
Board has presented a wide var
iety of events: without the
Board there would have been no 
Arthur C. Clarke, Arthur Schlesinger, Sander Vanocur, or Strom 
Thurmond (!?); no New York 
Rock & Roll Ensemble. McKendree Spring, or Herbie Mann 
(hes coming May 1st); and no 
Tom Paine, Marcel Marceau, or 
Kinetic Art.
With an expanded budget and 
a year's experience, the Activi
ties Board looks to the future, 
to determine the direction of pro
gramming next year. As of yet, 
that direction has not been es
tablished; that is why I am 
writing this article  I am hop
ing that some of you will think 
about what you want to happen 
in 70- 71. These are some of 
the facts, plans, and ideas con
cerning the possibilities for com
ing events:
Lectures  next year we would 
like to develop a lecture ser
ies that will investigate and 
develop certain themes: for
example, special topics might 
include homesexuality. psy
chic experiences, women's lib
eration. crime in the streets, 
drugs. Black Panthers, etc. 
Tentatively we hope to have a 
speaker every Tuesday, one 
who will not only come and 
give a lecture at 11:30. but 
also spend the day to and in
teracting with students.
Concerts  this coming year 
we have over $18,000 to spend 
on concerts, whereas this year 
we had approximately $6,000.
Films  the next two semes
ters the Activities Board could 
show at least one film a week, 
such as The Fox '. Who's 
Afriad of Virginia Wolfe. " 
"Bonnie and Clyde. "Bull
itt. etc. The Board could take 
advantage of experimental ser
ies, such as Genesis and Kin
etic Art. could bring in for
eign films, and could draw on 
an almost infinite reservoir of 
movies from any company that 
has films available.
Special Events  the Activi
ties Board is looking for pro
ductions. plays, and cultural 
experiments to compliment 
our having "Tom Paine and 
Marceau this year.
TGI F  Coffeehouse  next 
year we want to present pro
fessional coffeehouse acts <e. 
g.. the Saxons. Brian Carney. 
Jerry Jeff Walker) who can 
give two performances a night 
and spend a week playing and 
talking to students. In addi
tion. with MDC we are spon
soring coffeehouses every Sat
urday night featuring local 
talent. We also want to better 
TGIF's. and make them more 
of a campus-wide experience.
Homecoming - Carnival  this 
year the Activities Board was 
not directly responsible for 
these two events. But next 
year the> will originate as 
programs coming from within 
the structure of the Board. I 
would hope that we can abandone some of the convention 
associated with each weekend 
and revamp and change- them 
to include interests of the en
tire campus.
Festivals  school begins Sep
tember 1. There is a three day 
Labor Day weekend, when no 
one will have anything to do. 
This could be turned into a 
three day campus festival with 
concerts, bands, dances, cof
feehouses. films, etc.
* Miscellaneous 
idea here.
put your
So the point is this: there are 
some ideas expressed in the out
line you just read; they should 
give you a feeling of what the 
Activities Board is and what it 
is trying to accomplish. None of 
the plans specified is definite, 
none of them will develop if in
put from the student body is not 
received. That input must in
clude those who wish to make 
decisions, those who have ideas, 
and those who can organize and 
offer a little of their time to 
staff each activity. An important
point to consider is that if the 
Activities Board sponsors an ac
tivity with its funds, that acti
vity will have to originate or be 
planned within the structure of 
the Board. So no matter what 
your interests, the Activities 
Board needs your help.
What you can do: (in increas
ing order of effectiveness)
1. Leave your name, address, 
and phone number at the Skibo 
information desk.
2. Write a letter to Skibo 103.
3. Talk to a member of the 
Board. Scott Murray - lectures. 
Ilene Gochman - films. Bill Ia% 
cono - director.
4. Come to an organizational 
meeting Wednesday. April 15, 
7:00 P.M.. in the Wherrett Room. 
Skibo. The purpose of this meet
ing is to consider how to pro
gram and explore the realm ot 
possibilities open in the future.
WORK IS NASTY 
BUT IT SOMETIMES 
GETS THINGS DONE.
Applications are being accepted for student positions on the Aca
demic Affairs Board of Student Government, the Educational 
Policy Council of the Faculty Senate and other Faculty Senate 
Councils. If you are interested, leave a note with your name for 
Student Government in Skibo 103 or drop in on the meeting 
Tuesday at 4:30.
John Berryman 
Reads Own Work
Wheres 
Max
?
APPLY MEN'S DORM COUNSELOR
Applications for 1970-71 resi
dent counselor positions in men s 
dormitories will be available at 
the receptionists desk in the 
Office of the Dean of Students 
(Warner Hall 211) on Monday. 
April 13, 1970. There will be a 
limited number of counselors ap
pointed for the 1970-71 school 
year. Positions will be available 
in Hamerschlag House. Donner 
Hall, Scobell Hall, and E Tower 
of Morewood Gardens.
After you complete the appli
cation and return it to the re
ceptionist, please schedule an in
terview appointment with Dean 
Williams regarding the appli
cation. All men who are coun
selors at the present time must 
submit a new application. All
applications should be received 
at this office on or before April
24. Appointments for the 1970-71 
academic year will be an
nounced during the first week in 
May.
Please feel free to contact 
Dean Williams for any addition
al information regarding the po
sitions.
Kiltie Concert
Carnegie-Mellon s Kiltie Sym
phony Band will repeat the con
cert it performed recently at 
New York's Carnegie Hall when 
it presents its annual Presi
dent's Concert in Pittsburgh's 
Carnegie Hall. Oakland. Sunday. 
April 19 at 8:30*P.M.
The concert is free and open to 
the public.
The International Poetry For
um will present John Berry
man reading his own poetry in 
Carnegie Lecture Hall. Oakland 
on Wednesdav. April 15th at 
8:30 P.M.
Born in McAlester. Oklohoma. in 1914. John Berryman 
lives presently in Minneapolis 
where he teaches at the Univer
sity of Minnesota. He was edu
cated at Clare College. Cam
bridge. and during the forties 
and fifties taught at Wayne State. 
Harvard and Princeton. He is the 
author of a critical biography 
of Stephen Crane, and his books 
ofpoems include Homage to 
Mistress Bradstreet, The Dis
possessed, Unfortunate Travel
ler, 77 Dream Songs, Short 
Poems, Berrymans Sonnets
and His Toy, His Dream, His 
Rest. Among his honors are the 
Shelley Memorial Award, the 
Harriet Monroe Poetry Prize 
the Pulitzer Prize and most re-* 
cently. the Bollingen Prize and 
the National Book Award for 
His Toy, His Dream, His Rest.
In many ways a poet's poet. Mr. 
Berryman has been consistently 
praised by such contemporaries 
of his as Robert Penn Warren. 
Robert Fitzgerald. Edmund 
Wilson. Allen Tate. Robert Low
ell. William Meredith and Con- ^ 
rad Aiken.
Tickets for this reading are 
available at Gimbels. Horne's. 
Kaufman's, the Pitt Student 
I nion and at the Forum office 
in Carnegie Library.
Colonel Whitson = Red China
Colonel William Whitson. Chi
nese specialist of the Depart
ment of Defense, spoke about the 
government of Red China and the 
improvement of American-Chinese relations in the History 
Lounge in Baker Hall.
A small group of people was 
present, but their interest spark
ed a lengthy discussion after 
Whitson s brief speech.
Colonel Whitson explained the 
reasons for the Chinese Army's 
resistance to Mao Tse-tung poliLETTERS TO THE EDITOR
English Department SAC Submits Proposals
Editor, the Tartan:
After several meetings with 
Vice-President Schatz. Dean 
Steinberg, and members of the 
English Department, the Stu
dent Advisory Committee of the 
English Department has formu
lated the following proposals 
which are being sent to the 
above-mentioned people. The 
proposals come from our own ex
periences with promotion and 
tenure committees last semester 
and are. we fell, realistic:
As students of the English De
partment in the College of H&SS, 
we are concerned about deci
sions regarding promotion, ten
ure, and renewal of contracts. We 
would like to become an inte
gral part of the decision-making 
process in this area. To this end 
we urge that the following pro
posals be considered and insti
tuted by the Administration:
1. That a detailed faculty ev
aluation prepared by students in 
the Department be given signifi
cant consideration in all promo
tion. tenure, and reappointment 
decisions on the Department. 
College, and University levels, 
and that this evaluation become 
an official part of a permenant 
dossier.
2. That the time and place of 
all promotion, tenure, and re
appointment meetings, the nam
es of those up for review, and 
the names of those on the review 
committee be prepublicized so 
that students and non-tenured 
faculty can be present at an 
open meeting to speak for or 
against the faculty member in 
question. Students who will pre
sent information will register 
with SAC prior to the meeting 
time.
Students would not. of course, 
have a vote on the committee 
but would be provided with a
vocal input into the final de
cisionmaking of the tenuredfaculty committee. We feel that 
public hearings would be more 
democratic than the existing 
closed discussions, and all testmonies would have to be accur
ate and fair under this system. 
We also recognize that the ac
tual deliberations should remain 
closed.
3. That the University re-eval
uate its present criteria for hir
ing and firing faculty. Require
ments for PhDs and or large 
bodies of published work should 
be de-emphasized. Instead, 
greater consideration must be 
given to campus and commun
ity contributions made by the 
educator, and special emphasis 
placed upon the quality of 
teaching and special skills.
The English Department Stu
dent Ad visor v Committee.
tical ideas. An essential part of 
Mao s revolution is his interpre
tation of the Army as a political 
and social force defused with
in the society. This strongly con
trasts with the Chinese military 
leaders' interpretation of the 
Army as a concentrated military 
power that is well trained and 
can be easily lead.
In reference to the type of 
military efficiency thtit the Chi
nese Army hopes to achieved 
Whitson used the United States' 
8th Army in the Korean War as 
an example He claimed that our 
armed forces there were the best 
organized and directed in Ameri
can history, but the individual 
soldier did not know why he 
was fighting. Whitson contends 
that the individual soldier does 
not need a reason for a war to 
fight well if he is trained well. 
The Chinese military leaders be
lieve this, too and wish that they 
did not have to convince their 
soldiers of the ideological cor
rectness of a war before their 
soldiers will fight.
Under Mao's military organiza
tion commissar worked directly 
with villages in the revolution, 
drafting soldiers and convinc
ing the peasants of the need for 
the revolution. Unfortunately, 
this system breaks down if the 
commissar cannot convince the 
people of the need for a certain 
battle or it he cannot convince 
himself. But. that is powere for 
the people.
A new elite of technocrats are 
growing stronger within China 
according to Whitson. The Army 
is forcing Mao to centralize the 
government, giving power to the 
industrialists and the military 
and taking away some of the 
people's power. When once Mao 
wanted the peasants to direct 
the technological growth of Chi- n 
na. the Red Army now claims 
that such a plan will not work 
without a concentration of pow
er in the hands of those who will 
lead the change.
The Communist Party in China 
is now being rebuilt according 
to the Army's wishes. The Army 
has the backing of many of the 
older peasants who do not wel
come the many political and so
cial changes brought about by 
Mao.
Whitson described China s 
military position as mostly de
fensive. Her offensive strength 
is weak, relying on its ability 
to use Japan and India as hos
tages against any threats by the 
United States. The offensive 
weapons that they are making 
are consequently short range 
types that will be directed to
wards Japan. India, and parts 
of Russia in case of threats from 
either the United States or the 
Soviet Union. At the moment 
China concentrates most of her 
military program on defense.

---------------------------------------------------

 > I  _ % i A.' i# ( i f   t - *>',Tuesday, April 14, 1970THE TARTANPage 5
5 y s

---------------------------------------------------

Pag 6THE TARTANTuesday, April 14, 1970
."Tar .tnE"TdEitno lBiun sE .T"nieTO
What would any carnival be without its sideshows, 
games, and amusement rides? C-MU's Spring Carnival 
1970 has all of these. Beginning this Friday, that por
tion of the Skibo parking lot between the I.M. Field 
and the Tech Bowl will be transformed into a carni
val midway, complete with amusement rides, games 
to play, and a whirl of color, noise, cotton candy, hot 
dogs, and popcorn.
There will be nineteen booths, all showing some 
sort of Crazy Contraption, built by eleven fraterni
ties, six sororities, AWS and MDC.
All the booths will be judged on the same a 
eria, which include design (the appearance of the 
booth, the use of color, etc.). mechanics (Electric 
and/or mechanical devices and their operation) 
manship and the enjoyability of the game.
This years midway will feature a brand new sub
terranean cable to avoid mishap and injury.
. . . .The midway will open on Thursday. April lt> at 
4:30 at which time the judging will begin.
Some of the booths on the midway are: .mBSf
Alpha Tau Omega  the ATO entry to the niiidf ay 
collection of crazy contraptions this year will be jlwo 
giant pinball cubes". Each cube consists of three sep
arate labyrinth-like games, with each player compet
ing against both his opponent and the clock. The flay
ers will stand inside of each suspended cube and tilt 
the entire cube in order to manipulate the &alls 
through the game. The player first completing! all 
three games will activate a set of contraptions ^designed to attract the eves of the entire midway.
Beta Theta Pi  BTP's booth is a geodesic arc!? 
with a tensegrity suspended floor, the floor ill the 
base for a total experience conveying the craziest con
traption in both its simplicity and complexity.
Delta Delta Delta  this year on the midway yoSl 
will finally be able to realize the total intensity oflj 
your kiss. Delta Delta Delta's Smooch Booth" will 
electronically measure this hidden (or obvious) poten
tial. This contemporary design utilizes various 
and a rheostat to reach the awaited conclusi
Delta Upsilon  Vietnam, inflation, hunger, po
verty. fascism. Nixon  all of these problems lead to 
frustration and a feeling of helplessness^Dig, Dciu 
silon booth encourages vicarioujyreprisals in the forr 
of water baloons and ro^i^iruit sl0PF^ne!ples^J^3^ 
with a replica of the infamous Skibo Sally (our giant 
slingshot). Somej^omeP^^release yoj^fecent-up hos
tilities. Yo.if> may noteliminate hunger! poverty, or 
Nixon. Jbijii yoipRiaistic appetite will be nourished. and 
in a small your responsibility tO|mankind fulfillDelta Gamma  The DG's have crprjJfl a ci^zy 
contrition for Madmen Only. Wtlk into four ihreedi^hensional diamond and see the* llltasiafHT the revolvir g wheel; see how mad you really aPjor
f Kappa Alpha Thetaj*- KAO invrtes you to visit 
its booth on the midwaTTOj^^eetne^limiy of lunines^ 
in a laboratory. Watch our version of the distillation 
process and gaze on the idiotic chart of the elemep^|;
Pi Kappa Alpha -j^rhPbi^th will be*jg|agel faog 
tory which forms, cooks, and then taste ests the bagel 
for degrees of perfection. Contestants wilr attempt 
to guess the quality of die 1 agel as determined (in 
cdets Better-Bagcl Baker. jjfj
Sigma Al^ha iyjsilon  Puff n muiL  proponent 
oj provocajygp purge of pathetic, poisonous pofutants  
preventod of paramount .perdition prostrator of peo
ple's pijjudipa| predicament .M th(| prophet and pro
tector of the priceless^- peaceful pastures of the planet ^aRfaenomenal. preposterous. penetrating  Puff n 
Stuff  thfcpropitious p|rss{k>rt to private paradise.
^^igr^afNu veafs ,SN b<oth maintains the
long line of imaginative Spring Carnival booth ideas of 
pfeviou^ years. It incorporajJfFmany cooperative mo
tions resulting in ttup magnanimous feat of lifting it
self up. turrting ijiside oii^Rnd putting itself back 
down oa its base. The*booth acts as a timing device 
kor the enjoyable* and'skillfiil yet frustrating game to 
be incorporated. All/in,Jtli. SN's booth for the 1970 
Spring Carnival Midway is going to be one big aesthe^rDlast. jjB/- Mm
^ Tau Delta Phi- This year TDP takes a giant step 
wards. It has discarded its hoses and developed
the Backwards Booth." C-MU students should find 
this game articularly rewarding. After years of fruit
less searching they will be able to put the knowledge 
lere a C-MU to good use. At Tau Delta Phi they 
will attempt to win by doing everything backwards.
Xi  This year TX's crazy machine will be 
flFslot machine complete with slot, lever and. of 
Jack Pot.
Beta Sigma Rho  in fitting jwth this year's theme. 
iSR has chosen the tin can as its great mention.- The 
structure of the booth is composeiT'of three eight toot 
cans. Threej^iyers. each one, situated in one W t he 
tin cans^ has Ihree minutes t> test JifTmental dexterity 
in building^me of , six geometric figures, all of which 
an be built. using p!onu seven individual pieces. To 
those who are successful will go still another puzzle 
Nn which they must prove their abilities.
. Kappa ^Kappa Gamma  our booth is constructed 
within ci pyramid structure. Perhaps the best way to 
describe nay booth is to tell you how to play the 
Fgame. A ball is thrown into a high tunneled tridantlike structure at the top. If this is done successfully it 
passes onto a spinning wheel. This wheel adds chance 
to the game by spinning the ball down one to two 
paths carved out of a statue of King Neptune. If it goes 
through the right one the winner will receive a gold
fish as a prize.
Phi Kappa Theta  who dreams up crazier con
traptions than the Whiley Coyotee? Phi Kap h^s gotten 
together with the little rascal to create the ultimate 
Acme Roadrunning Catching Device." The booth will 
be a study in two dimensions, highlighted by brilliant 
colors. The game will be the ever popular ball game, 
with a few new twists added to create even larger 
crowd appeal.
Alpha Epsilon Phi  This year. AEPhis machine 
is the Two-Seated Backscratchin' Contraption". This 
machine confronts its players with intense concentra
tion and extreme frustration. Two people must per
suade a stubborn little ball to reach the end of a 
maze. Once this is achieved, the machine automatically 
rewards them with a relaxing backscratch.
S V S Gives Great P
by CHUCK DALY
Free or repressed; happy or sad; alone or ti 
gether; young or old  all of these dichotomie 
concern, perhaps define, the world today. All a eg 
explored successfully and entertainingly in Scotqg 
n Soda's "Something Personal." The gener 
tion gap" is the -base for this excursion into t 
soul of the world. The young profess to stand ft} 
freedom, happiness, and togetherness. The o' 
are thought to be repressed, sad. and alone, 
through the course of the performance we becom? 
aware of the fact that some of each of these op
posites in mood or condition is common to all 
generations. Neither the youth nor the over
thirties are either the villains or the heroes.
Perhaps the biggest success of Somethi 
Personal" comes in the portrayal of individuals' 
rather than generations. The elevation of the in
dividual is essential to the play for that is what 
its all about. The characters seek meaning for 
their lives in various places  some in groups, some 
in drugs, etc. The most satisfactory yet the most 
tragic answer comes for Schlyer. the young male 
lead portrayed by David Spangler, who finds 
meaning in his own freedom Schyler s search tor 
freedom leads to unhappiness for others and even
tually to his own death, yet freedom is the only 
means through which he can maintain his in
tegrity,
Although the ending of the musical is quite 
tragic, there are many preceding segments with 
a somewhat lighter tone. The music and dancing 
is largely jubilant  a celebration of life.
The generally happy tone of the earlier seg
ments of Something Personal" creates an attiot
guml'nts
Sfftude of 
[tually cor 
r/Ihe effect 
tainly would 
lulled into a 
surprise endin 
ommonplace and 
inning to be a bit 
gThe mixed media 
The slides presently 
e perhaps the most 
 revolutionary youth
ecial credits must go , to 
David Spangler not only 
rformance as Schvler Huri1 
for the direction 
r also composed the music and co 
scripl Hisgtremendous voice was ev1 
is solo. Pk*ut|j^i at the close of the
Jane Tilley 
for her characterizati 
female lead role. AJthough 
lapses in her memory of the sc7 
formance was ganerally superb. Jane sU'ffJied int 
the lead role only eight days before opening 
night.
The whole cast performed extremely well, 
and most of all. seemed to be enjowng what 
they were doing This added greatly to the au
dience's reaction.
There is a nasty rumor that the musical 
form of theater is dead. Something Personal' 
lends serious evidence to the contrary.
Amazing Baby Leroy 
Up For Adoption
Due to a chronic lack of interest and acute irrelevance, 
THE HOLY ROLLERS (a FRINGE group) hereby offer Btr 
wierd and lovely buggy, three-wheeled Baby Leroy, to any 
person or persons who haven't anything specific planned for 
Friday morning and wouldnt awfully mind pushing it up 
Tech and Frew Streets. Independence and really fleet feet 
are the only requirements. Leroy comes race-ready, complete 
with nifty speed secrets, super fancy cornering capability, 
and flea-weight speed freak driver. Made of the finest com
ponents and highest craftmanship, and Blessed by The Uni
versal Life Church of Pittsburgh, Inc., Leroy is guaranteed 
not too turn pink in the can. Push your way to health; leave 
a note on any motorcycle.
Brothers In A New Bag
of
great recognition 
Gainselv. the
The Chambers Brothers have 
been together as a group for six 
years in the rock scene, and beore that sang as a gospel group. 
ie Brothers were the first to 
gospel to night clubs and 
cmHBfehouses. Their belief was 
jgt^he Bgople there needed God 
ie people in the 
tow right they 
reat pion^^^for it. 
tli?1 Brother*, it 
:r inc-3
a so
hfi and 
What baj 
The Chaml
jem hapf
the Brothef 
^Brothers belong'
to the rock scene, the blues 
scene, the rhythym and blues 
scene, the country-western scene, 
the psychadelic scene, and the 
gospel scene. All of those juxta
positions mean they belong to 
the total music scene and are 
playing every conceivable type 
of music. The only bag you can 
put the Brothers in is Cham
bers Music", i.e.. a true love 
feeling between the audience 
and themselves. The above, if it 
seems to be difficult to under
and hard to believe, restronger definition 
There vet.^ in ary*
inarv or e^^^ 
the Char
ers
^jpP&Phi Omega 
gliest Man On Campus
The annual elections for Ugly Man On Campus, conducted by 
Alpha Phi Omega, will take place this week and will end Thurs
day. April 23. Voting will take place between 8:30 and 4:30 in 
Baker Hall and Skibo. The usual one penny  one vote rule will 
once again be in effect. Proceeds from the conteest will be used 
to help provide lunches for children in the poverty areas of Pitts
burgh.
New mugs, designed and made by Chris Damon, wilt be award
ed to the two top Ugly Men.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, April 14, 1970THi TARTANPage 7
Buggies Are Back With A Vengeance!
The buggy races must be considered one of the high
lights of any Spring Carnival. This year will be no excep
tion.
The .8 mile course begins at the bottom of Tech St. 
The Hill One pusher controls the buggy until it reaches 
the intersection of Tech and Frew Sts. The Hill Two push
er takes over here. It is his job to push the buggy as tar 
aepossible down Schenley Drive. When he can no longer 
ketoJjy^with the buggy, he gives it one final hard shove. 
From here, thefree roll begins; the buggy continues 
dowr^OT$nlev Drive Along the right curb. As it reaches 
jae monument at Phipps Conservatory. the buggy crosses 
the roJNfcj^ihat it as neW as po^ibie to the right curb. 
Speed nWfi&easiiifc as the baggy continues its free roll. 
The buggy reaches ma?fjmum >peed ayt comes to the 
Frew St. turn. The corf^ftTteUon of speed andrough road 
makes this the most hazardous poi&ion ortbe course, with 
a disastrous spinout possible at am*sme. When the bug
gy's speed has diminished, the Hilh^^e punier takes 
over. He hands off to the Hill Four pusnelyat the middle 
of Porter Hall. Hill Dour continues to Jhe end at B 
Hall. The Hill Five pusher takes the buggy fromtHtfe t 
the finish at the intersection of Tech and Frew Sts.
The races are run on two days; eight preliminary 
heats consisting of three buggies each are run on Frida^K 
The best of three times from Friday qualify for the finals 1 
on Saturday. The next three best times are placed in the 
Consolation Heat talso on Saturday. Racing begins at 9 
a m. on both Friday and Saturday.
There is much debate about what makes a fast buggy. 
Years ago. heavy buggies were in vogue because it was 
telt that they would free roll better. The latest trend is to 
build a light buggy which combines the advantages of a 
last free roll and pushing ease. Pushing ease is the princi
pal virtue ot the bicycle style racers. They have a sloweiii 
dree roll due to their lightness. To increase speed eveni| 
more, many houses heat their wheels. Surprisingly, this 1
can improve times as much as six seconds. So far. Pi Kap
pa Alpha has produced the fastest run. a 2:20.7 set 
in 1968.
So much for racing in general. This year, the races 
should be as competitive as ever. This is the way I see the 
Competition.
Any house that can win the races with their B bug
gy must be considered as a top competitor. Beta Theta Pi 
did this last year. This year they will be running their 
 A" buggy 825 which did not finish last year. Overall push 
team depth plus considerable race experience must be 
considered as a plus for Beta. Beta should be in the finals 
this year.
Pi Kappa Alpha had 4,^sgppointing race last year. I 
do not expect that theyMvill repeat that performance this 
year. This have a tostorv ofjbuiltijng buggies which are 
among the fastest^hei^ pusli leaniis have a great deal ot 
racing experience The course record holders should be 
neyr the top again this yearflpF
hr Kappa Theta fihi^ied second to Beta last year, 
is year they have produced a new buggy, the Streak, 
wftich Jaas looked^ood in practice. \Iost oi^^members 
of last years two fine push teams^pe returned. This 
hfase should be |p the finals this year
'igma Alpha Epsilon has had gr|at success futh their 
bikBs. .astFvear. they had the second best prfelmanai 
time. Tfrhevjtcan overcome the loss of two \ Team! 
ers^thejj; will be among the fastest.
Sigma^'u proa ced two new budgies last veer. 
Consolation yealiftev had a B ||| ^
excellent^Be. Tnisi^ear. S
if tbAcanavdid mishap^ in the prellftiinaM . thev could 
be irvJfie finals.

AlpuL TaJfcmegar feas a mixed
niconsidered as a * entender
Spring Carnival
THURSDAY, APRIL 16
4:30 P.M.Midway Opens, Booth Judging 
4:30 P.M.Buggy Design Judging in Gym 
8:30 P.M.Queen Presentation and Fireworkds 
in the Stadium 
12:00 MidnightMidway Closes
FRIDAY, APRIL 17
9:00 A.M.Sweepsfakes 
12:00 NoonMidway Opens
have befallen them. This year should be the year that ATO 
will avoid trouble. They will definitely be in the top six.
Delta Upsilon is making a real effort this year. A new 
racer, with two buggy wheels and two retractable trainer 
wheels which are used only during pushing, has been suc
cessfully tested. If this radical design encounters no trou
ble. Dl could be near the top.
Delta Tau Delta has two entrie> this year. They have 
always produced a respectable showing. This year should 
be no exception.
3TauDelta Phi is another house that employs the bicy
cle type racer. They have had fairly good times during 
practice. This house has an outside chance at the top six
Theta Xi has buggy chairman Bob McKnight as their 
driver. Last year, they were in the top halt ot the com
petition. They aleo placed in design, this year should be a 
repeat performance.-
Beta Sigma Rbttag *ain running the three wheeled 
Dolphin This i^ a hem buggy which rolls well but is 
difficult to push. 8e;a .Si gin ust be considered as a ques
tion mark.
Men s Dorm ("flliiteU nas two entriee9 BAGGZ Chairian Mike Dinolf" is working hard to imporve over last 
ye|ar's performance If desire to improve was the only 
ing necessary, the dorfln would win this year Untorately. they canny; realistically be classed at the top
The Fringe wafB^ffw entry last year Bob William* 
has a new buggy this yea[\ It is of the three-wheeled 
ggy type. The buggyitVlt appears to be fairly good de^n. However, the pushjtfcam mu>t be considered a> a 
Ujajor obstacle for the 1t w|e.
W Now that an oi 
think ? You probabl 
test will come on t] 
m.
iia^khas beengiven. what do >ou 
o noagree. Talk is cheap The tinal 
|ap Hope to see vou on Frida\ atl
 2:30 R.M.Picinic and Cell Day on the Cut 
3:09P.M.Sorority Relaysand Faculty Egg Toss 
8:30 P.M.Concert with'the Chambers Brothers 
at Syria Msque
SATURDAY, APRIL 1 8
9:00 A.M.Sweepstakes !
1:00 P.M.Alumni Football Game at Stadium
3:00 P.M.  Plank Joust on Old Kappa S<g L awn 
6 30 P.M.Movies (The Dutchman and sho t subjects)
in Whenet Room, running continously until 12 
midnight. Spfen sored by Spirit.
_ 8:00 P.M.Midway Closes
B ; 12:00 MidnightTrophy Presentation
Cost of tickets will1 be $4.50/person. Since the concert is 
being sponsored by an outside promoter, tickets will be sold 
off campus for $6/person. Buy your tickets early because a 
sell-out is anticipated with the outside sales. Tickets are now 
on sale at the Activities Office, 103 Skibo.
Photo by Jerry Siskind
Miss Margaret Markte, dark-horse Fringe Spring Carnival Queen Candidate.

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

The Dorms Choice For Queen:
CAROL!
WANTED
Two Roommates, Female*1for pleaant, inexpensive, three-bedroom Apt.
362-8268
D
1970 YEARBOOK orders will be taken 
during Spring Carnival on, or near, the 
Midway. 
GET A 1969 THISTLE FOR S5.00 
PLUS YOUR S9.50 1970 ORDER!!
OR
GET A 1968 THISTLE FREE 
WITH YOUR $9.00 1969 YEARBOOK.
1970 Yearbooks will be radically different in for
mat and content, and if you ordered now will be 
mailed to your home address during vacation.
0
Neglected... but not disconnected
Dont let it happen to your phone.
Be sure to let us know if youre moving 
this spring so we can disconnect your phone. 
No need to rack up charges 
for service youre not using.
Also-if youd like phone service 
at your new quarters, let us know 
as soon as you know your new address.
Just call our Business Office, 396-9101
() Bell off Pennsylvania
Tuesday, April 14, 1970THE TARTANPag 9
Interview
(Continued from Page 1)
the students, yet they're under ad
ministration control. So they're 
always caught in-between, and 
sometimes, because of this, they 
jeopardize the trust that the stu
dents give them, and they also 
come under tire from the admin
istration.
Vince: Do you think the Stu
dent Union request will receive 
administration backing, or will it 
perhaps be shrugged off and not 
paid attention to?
Carter: Well, they havent been 
doing that in the past with any
thing thats been said. 1 think 
theyd probably be quite willing 
to get rid of any responsibility as 
long as they felt it would be han
dled capably. 1 think thats what 
their real fear is, especially in 
something like this. I dont think 
they really want to run Skibo, and 
I think theyd be happy to turn it 
over to students if they thought it 
was going to be run efficietntly.
Pat: They're in a lot of busi
nesses that perhaps they don't 
want to be inthe business of run
ning housing and the business of 
running Skibo. and the business of 
running a book store. They're sup
posed to be in the business of run
ning an educational institution, 
and those certainly aren't part 
of that. There are other people 
probably more qualified to do 
those things, like the food or the 
Student Union or the dormitory. I 
don't see that there should be re
sistance to it or that there should 
be resistance to. say. student own
ed dormitories, and so on.
Vince: One question taht will 
certainly arise is whether there 
are enough interested students 
capable of managing this type of 
facility.
Pat: The point of having a stu
dent run union is not that you have 
some student planning the menus 
for the meals and someone plan
ning how to cleam it upthe staff 
essentially remains the same. The 
difference is that final decisions 
go to the student level, they don't 
go to the administration for who 
gets what room, and whether the 
food actually will be changed 
the administration doesn t have to 
eat that food, we have to eat it. 
and yet they're the ones who have 
the final say on what it's going to 
be.
Vince: So this may be just a 
process of changing the person 
who "signs the papers ?
Pat: It's changing the final de
cision level from the administra
tion to the students. The adminis
tration shouldn't really be in the 
food and dormitory and student 
activities decision making, be
cause it doesn't affect them If 
you want to be a University ad
ministrator you want tmdeal with 
educational issues and research 
issues and how to fund the re
search and so on. you don't want 
to be hassled with how we re go
ing to get some better pool table 
facilities for the students. That 
sort of thing should be left to the 
students.
Vince: A lot of those issues you 
make may be disagrred with by 
some people, such as whether the 
University should be responsible 
(Continued on Page 10)
682-3731121 University Place
la Mmont of iKo Physicians twiMng
OPEN: Monday-Frlday, 9:00-5:00
Xerox Copies St/2t
THESES
y MANUSCRIPTS
Sv
XEROX
COPIES DO MAKE A DIFFERENCE!
NOTEBOOKS
(Department Charge Accounts 
and Research Grants WELCOME)
CLAIROL KINDNESS KIT 
SETS HAIR IN 10 MINUTES
17.60regularly 21.88
Simple to use . . . just roll-up liair, 10 
minute* later comb-out curls. No water, 
no lotion, no waiting for hair to dry.
20 heat-up rollers.
GIMBELS

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10THE TARTANTuesday, April 4, 1970
Typewriters 
and Adders
Display Models 
SAVE UP TO507c
85.00 SCM ELECTRIC Portable..............................49.50
68.50 UNDERWOOD Lettera 32 ............................45.00
99.50 ROYAL SAFARI Portables.........................49.50
68.50 UNDERWOOD Studio 44 ..............................45.00
69.50 REMINGTON Noiseless Standard ....'........25.00
McFarren
15
THOUSANDS 
SOLD 
AT $75 
NOW
*39.50
Terms Available
Pictured typewriter is a full sited heavy duty portable! It weight H/i pounds or more than twice the weight of midget Royal. Underwood- tween 6 and S pounds and sell In the >25 to t3i price range. But sold twen ( and t pounds and sell in the >2S to 31 price range. But soldhy us at S19 to $29.
Compare With Regular Portables to *149.50
McFarren15Hermes3000Ol-mpla8M-9RovaiCustomClassi13Locked Segment Shift YesyesyesNoNoSteel Construction .. yesNoyesNoNoOverhead Paper BallYttysyesNoyesCarriage Lock.......... YesyesyesNoyes
Standard Keyboard.. yesNoNoNoNoWeight in Pounds ..16 Va16 Vito1717Macs Price..........39.5069.0079.0059.0079.50
FREE CustomerParking in theNone So/dTo Deo/ersfgarage acrossNoMai/ orPhoneOrdersthe street"KJSr McFARREN G.VVi
 Repair Work Wanted Free Estimate
604 LIBERTY AVE.
* Used Machines Wanted High Trade-In or Cash
DOWNTOWN
Open Daily 9:30 till 5:30 Including Sot. 
Monday and Thursday till f281-7444
Interview
A prilciton Rgrs Newo Ptor controlling a mr.jor part of the 
>tudents lives, suci as the housing 
and their food anJ the book store. 
This probably comes from way 
back with the idea of In Loco 
Parentis." i believe, that univer
sities are acting the part of the 
students paretns. From this view 
1 do see possible oppoeition from 
the administration.
Pat: That was the parent's idea 
in the first place. I don't think that
CLEARANCE SALE
New Arrival of Large Selection
BUTTE KNITS DRESSES 
and CUSTOM SUITS
Drastic Reduction
$12 99 BELL BOTTOM SLACKS
Wools, Polyestors & Knits
$5.00 & $7.99
$1.75 CHRISTIAN DIOR HOSE 
S1.00
Large Selection of
SPRING DRESSES reduced 
20% to 50%
BOBBIE BROOKS 
DRESSES '/2 off
$5o.oo SPRING RAINCOATS
Known Brands $29.99
LUSTI6S
CASUALS415 S. Craig Street
universities really wanted to be 
the parent.
Vince: It may still be the par
ent's idea, and the administra
tion may think it's the parent s 
idea, and therefore be opposed to 
changing it. for fear of losing the 
parent's support.
Carter: I don't think the admin
istration will oppose anything on 
that basis. They've pretty much 
said that they don't believe in In 
Loco Parentis" any more. They're 
doing away with it about as fast 
as they can.
Pat: Burp!
Vince: Have you talked to any 
people other than students about 
these topics?
Pat: Well. I've talked to Mr. 
McCurdy at fair length and to
FOR LESS!
Over 1000 New 9x12's 
$15,$20,$29,$39,$49
6 x9s, 12x12s, 12x15s, 12x18s, etc. 
FURNITURE SAVINGS 
Through Wholesale Showrooms
CHASES
5432 WALNUT ST., Shadyside
Open every day 10 a jn.-9 p.m. 
(Saturday till 5 p.m.)
PHONE 621-1025
Dean Swank only momentarily. 
The Inion idea is feasible and use
ful. We need to formulate some 
definite proposals now. however.
Vince: That leads to the natural 
question which probably should 
be for Carter: What do you think 
is the immediate action you will 
be taking to obtain the Student Un
ion?
Carter: The first thing we have 
to do is answer questions of legal 
responsibility. Presumably the 
only way students could own any
thing is to incorporate some unit 
called Student Government of CMU. The first thing 1 11 do is look 
into that, find out how expensive it 
would be. how much trouble it 
would be, and we may just go 
ahead and do that, if it s not too 
hard. The Student Government 
now has no legal status at all.
Vince: Have you any idea how 
long the entire process of incor
porating and obtaining the union 
might take?
Carter: Finding about how dif
ficult it will be to incorporate is 
the first thing 1 11 do. The second 
thing would be to start negotiat
ing with the administration to see 
whether they'll have anything to 
do with this kind of thing. To do 
that we have to formulate fairly 
concrete plans as to what kind of 
buildings we re talking about, how 
much money, etc. They wont ap
prove of anything until it's rather 
well formulated, and I expect that 
to take quite a while. It's fairly 
complicated, but I think it's a big 
step for the students to take.
SHADYSIDE APARTMENT
TO SUBLETJune, July and August. 
Available mid-May. Second Floor, 
Furnished, Fully Equipped Kitchen. 
$27O/Month 363-1373
World Campus Afloat 
is a college that does more 
than broaden horizons.
It sails to them and beyond.
Again in 1970, the World Campus Afloat program of Chapman College and Associated 
Colleges and Universities will take qualified 
students, faculty and staff into the world laboratory.
Chapman College now is accepting final 
applications for the next three consecutive 
semesters: Spring 1970, Fall 1970 and 
Spring 1971. Preliminary applications also 
may be made for all future semesters.
Fall semesters depart New York for ports 
in Western Europe and the Mediterranean, 
Africa and South America, ending in 
Los Angeles. Spring semesters circle the world from Los Angeles through the Orient, 
India and South Africa to New York.
For a catalog and other information, 
complete and mail the coupon below.
SAFETY INFORMATION: The s.s. Ryndam, 
registered in The Netherlands, meets 
International Safety Standards for new ships 
developed in 1948 and meets 1966 fire 
safety requirements.
F.
Art student Leana Leach of Long Beach 
sketches ruins of once-buried city during 
World Campus Afloat visit to Pompeii.
WORLD CAMPUS AFLOAT 
Director of Student Selection Services 
Chapman College, Orange, Calif. 92666
Please send your catalog and any other material I need to have.
SCHOOL INFORMATION
Mr.MissMrs.

Last NameFirst Initial
Name of School
Campus AddressStreet
CityState Zip
Campus Phone ( )
Area Code
Year in School Approx. GPA on 4.0 Scale
HOME INFORMATION
Home AddressStreet
CityState Zip
Home Phone ( )
Area Code
.info should be sent to campus ? home ?Until- approx. date
I am interested in ? Fall Spring ? 19______
? I would like to talk to a representative of WORLD CAMPUS AFLOAT
a*     
OMEGA
"DYNAMIC
SELF-WINDING
WATCHES
Scientifically de
signed to fit your 
wrist, the unique 
oval shape of this 
stainless steel, wa
ter-resistant case is 
absolutely comfort
able. Self-winding 
movement, sweep 
second hand, date 
of the month that 
changes automati
cally every mid
night. Fitted with 
sleek, color - coor
dinated interchange
able straps, vented 
for coolness. His, 
$115. Hers, $125.
G IMBEL'S
Q
OMEGA

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, April 4, aPyIvXEO XF.XFMvNewo aa
New College To Meet Again
by Ken Friend
The H&SS College Council met Thursday. April 
9presumably for the purpose of resolving the pre
sent problem of course requirements in the New 
College. No one can argue that some serious consi
deration was not given to the various proposals gen
erated at the "problem solving" session held on 
Wednesday. However, in spite of these attempts to 
give serious consideration to the ramifications of 
the proposals, the meeting lacked structure and a 
task-oriented attitude. Even though Dean Steinberg 
pointed out that the ultimate questions concerning 
the freshman's proposal and educational philosophy 
probably could not be solved for many years and 
even though the necessity of quickly reaching some 
conclusion was repeatedly mentioned, it seemed 
that some College Council members wanted to con
tinue beating their way through sticky philosophical 
issuesfar removed from the realities of the pre
sent situation. These issues are certainly important 
but. fortunately, most Council members perceived 
the need for at least a temporary solution to the pre
sent problem in the very near future.
The majority of the discussion at the meeting 
centered around the proposal asking for dropping 
all College course requirements presented by the 
New College students (see page threeTartan of 
Tuesday. April 7). The scope of the proposal was 
soon narrowed (by consensus to next year's sopho
more class. In order to focus the discussion, the ef
fects of the proposal on next year's freshman class 
were generally excluded (but they should be consi
dered at a later date i.
Several faculty members explained their lack of 
support for the policy by pointing out that approval 
of this policy would negate the "principle" of re
quired courses. Because of this objection, the inten
tion that this merely be a one year experiment tas 
stated in the proposal) was clarified. At this point, 
discussion turned to the meaning of an experiment 
and the possible advantages that might be had from 
conducting such an "educational experiment."
Dean Steinberg felt that the issue was a philo
sophical one and could not see what value such an 
experiment would have in deciding philosophical is
sues. Several Council members pointed out that 
data never before gained at C-MU might be had. 
For instance, patterns of courses chosen by stu
dents in a free system would show whether such a 
system really removes all strarture from a stu
dent's education or whether students impose their 
own structure in such a system,.
Several faculty members asked for a guaran
tee that approving a no requirements policy for one 
year would not remove the option of later re-insti
tuting requirements. It was generally agreed that 
such an option should remain open. A number of 
Council members asked for better definition of the 
goals and evaluations to be used at the end of such a 
one year experiment." Other members desired 
more time to think over the issues involved. Due to 
lack of time for further discussion a decision was 
made to hold another meeting on Tuesday. April 14 
(today), for the purpose of discussing the meaning 
of the proposed experiment and to'reach a decision 
on the program for next year's sophomores.
During the time from Thursday to Tuesday a 
committee will be discussing the data which might 
be collected from a one-year no requirements ex
periment and the possible evaluations to be used 
at the end of such a year. Although it seems that a 
majority of College Council members are not in 
favor of the proposal made by the freshman class, 
it also seems that they would be willing to accept the 
concept of a one-year experiment if they are fully 
guaranteed that: 1> requirements might later be 
reimposed; 2) adequate evaluation of the experi
ment will be conducted, and 3 strong curriculum 
suggestions will be madeto students to ensure some 
cummulative structure to their education and. 
equally important, to ensure that departments 
continue to offer quality courses to non-majors.
It would be good for the College Council to ask 
for these guarantees for they will help ensure qual
ity education. The fact that several Council mem
bers did discuss them shows their true concern for 
education and for the New College. It is my hope 
that the Council will accept the experimental no re
quirements proposal with these guarantees at its 
meeting today. The Council would make a mistake 
if it did not take this strong, positive action. It must 
be clear from the time, effort and thought expended 
by the freshmen that a clear educational problem 
exists. To retreat to previous policies and plans 
simply because the Council approved them earlier 
simply will nqt do. " ^
v? % _
NIGHT POWER
The crepe jump
Flirty, feminine knife 
pleating swirling 
around the social 
whirl. A smash
ing way to look 
as hostess or 
guest in deep 
purple rayon 
acetate crepe 
trimmed 
in white.
Sizes 5-13. $52
GIMBEL'S
Can You Make A? Decision?
the ACTIVITIES BOARD needsSTUDENTS
who might be interested in
concerts
speakers
films 
coffee houses
TGIFS 
special events
homecoming 70 
carnival 71
for the 70-71 academic year
where:
Wherett Room
when:
Wednesday, April 15, 7 P.M.
what for:
To choose groups, speakers, films, plays, and explore possibilities for the next year (see article page 3)

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12THE TARTANTuesday, April 14, 1970
Tennis Team Nets 2 More Wins 
Faces Tough Match vs. W&J Weds.
' MMThe tennis team brought its 
record to 4-1 for the season and 
extended its winning streak to 
nine with two more wins last 
week.
In a home match last Thurs
day, the Tartan netters easily 
handed Indiana a 9-1 trouncing 
with only two of the nine march
es going into three sets. Javed 
Khan had an easy time defeat
ing Indiana's talented Freshman. 
Chris Michael, 6-1, 6-2. Joe Gor
don's match with Bob Pooley took 
three sets, but CMU singles 
players Bader Wahedi, Steve For
man. Jim Osher, and John Herre 
all won easily in two.
The doubles teams of KhanForman and Osher-John Agatston won routinely, and the Rick 
Smith-Herre team won in the 
closest match of the day, 9-7. 
3-6. 8-6. over Pooley-Dennis
Charlesworth.
Saturday CMU faced one of 
the toughest teams on its sche
dule and came out on top at 
Westminster 6-3.
The team is under the direc
tion of Dave Lichtman. one of 
the highly rated players in the 
district. Lichtman is being as
sisted this year by Coach March 
Krotee.
W & J. who snapped a CMU 
27-match win streak for the 
team's only loss last year, visits 
the Tech Courts tomorrow at 
2:30 p.m. The CMU squad is 
working on a streak of its own 
and won t forget the defeat in 
Washpa last year.
CMU 9 INDIANA 0
Khan (CMU) def. Michael 6-1. 
6-2.
Gordon (CMU) def. Pooley 4-6.
6-1. 9-7.
Wahedi (CMU) def. Leax 6-4. 
6-1.
Forman (CMU) def. Martin 6-1, 
6-0.
Osher (CMU) def. Charlesworth
7-5. 6-3.
Herre (CMU) def. Grill 6-2. 
6-3.
Khan-Forman (CMU) def. Mi
chael - Grill 6-1. 6-2.
Smith-Herre (CMU) def. Poolev Charlesworth 9-7. 3-6. 8-6.
Osher-Agatston (CMU) 
Leax-Gofus 6-2. 6-4.
def.
Andy C. Began Buggy Races
by JEFF RUBEN
The recent history and sense 
of tradition associated with bug
gy racing at Spring Carnival are, 
of course, firmly established. 
Late night practicing, running 
to get in shape while the mind 
decays, stumbling out of bed 
Sunday mornings at 5:30 ("keep 
the bed warm, lub)all this is 
commonplace preparation for 
the two to three minute race.
Much research was necessary 
to uncover the true story behind 
the beginnings of buggy racing 
at CIT. and this information was 
gleaned from an old Scottish 
gnome who inhabits the fourth
basement of Baker Hall.The
tale isan interesting one,and
it bears telling.
TENNIS SCHEDULE
CMUOpponent
6Western Reserve3
8Grove City1
9Indiana0
6At Westminster3
April 15W&J
April 18St. Francis
April 21St. Vincent
April 23at Allegheny
April 28Geneva
April 29Pitt
April 30Marietta
It seems that Andrew Carne
gie himself began the craze. 
Hearing that students were de
manding a new type of competi
tion, he schortled. It's enough 
to drive you buggy. Needless to 
say, the expression drive you 
buggy" caught on with the stu
dents. The details alone needed 
work.
The task was left to a group 
of students, led by Perry Push
er (E.E. 12), Denton Driver
(M.E. 13). Irving Freeroll (C.
E. 12) and the schools only 
Spanish-American War veteran, 
"San Juan" Hill (ROTC 14). 
These egotistical engineers nam
ed all vital parts of the racing 
procedure after themselves, 
and the names have stuck to this 
day.
TRACK SCHEDULE 
CMU Opponent
April 15 at W&J
April 18 Western Reserve 
April 22 Grove City 
April 30 Indiana State 
April 29 Thiel 
Mav 1 at Case
Track On The Upswing
by JIM TOMAYKO
At this point in the season the Carnegie track team has won 
one meet by six and has lost two meets by three. The two teams 
that have beaten C-MU this year also defeated Tech last season, 
one by fifteen points, the other by nearly sixty. The sale vic
tory for Carnegie last week was over Geneva who won last 
year by over seventy points. Thus, in spite of the record, something 
is really happening with that
track team. To understand this 
transformation, well have to 
look at the nature of track at 
Tech over recent years.
The average member of the 
track track team was a fresh
man. fairly good, and interested 
in the sport as much as when he 
was in high school. For example 
look at Joe Lorhan. He ran a 
1:59.9 half-mile and averaged 51 
in the quarter as a prep. But 
here as a frosh he couldnt get 
under 2:08 and he hadn't seen 
the low side of 53 in weeks. He 
did not win any races, but was 
consistent as a point-getter. The 
only thing on his mind is not his 
consistency, but his slow times. 
Why? Lets face it; hes sitting in 
front of a book ten times as much 
as in prep school, hes standing 
at a lab table, or easel, for long 
hours, his brain moves in fourth 
gear all the time and hes pledg
ing. Thus he is building up fa
tigue and inertia, and hes going 
downhill. Most freshmen arent 
back the next year because they 
cant overcome the effects of the 
double pressure of fatague and 
extra effort required to get more 
speed. It became an axiom  
a Carnegie trackman never im
proved.
Now let's take a look at our 
example in the present season.
Joe is running the half-mile
So dont worry about 1-2, 
think more of the inches that 
separate Carnegie from the suc
cess that the squad is beginning 
to achieve.
SUBLETTING...
Luxurious Apartment  345 S. Aiken (15 min. 
walk from Tech)  Fully furnished and car
peted  6 rooms  3 large bedrooms  large 
living room  bar  private entrance  lots of 
parking (no meters) will sublet from June 1 to 
August 20. Will discuss price. Contact 683-7338 
or 362-1921 evenings. Hurry great offer.
APOLOGY
The Tartan Sports Staff apo
logizes for the premature re
tirement of the tennis coach. 
Mr. Dave Lichtman is the 
head coach again this year 
and Mr. Krotee is his assist
ant.
ORIGINAL HOT DOG SHOPIf
Over 10 Million Hojfc Dogs Sold
WITH THIS COWON 
between tbefiOW* <>f3 Vol.69 ond 3o.w. VVfp&ft^
THREE HOT DOGS FOR $1,00 
OR THREE STEAKBURGER5 FOR $1.00 
. . . OR THREE FISH SANDWICHES FOR $1.00!
 YOUR CHOICE 
OPEN 24 HOURS3901 FORBES AVE.n nnwinr.iifTimTU'W'umi
Write Ithaca College for \ DIRECTOR SUMMER SESSIONS / 1TU^ACAC0^G.nSummer Session Pic t ora I Rewew \ f IT H A L A N Y___ 4-
iii nviMiui.n.M.fy.iluiMi\LUiKkiuuil nummrifi I AnuuoMttUAiJAl MAAki k UtikNU
