TARTAN
December 13, 1977 Volume 78, Number 14 Carnegie-Mellon University Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213
CMU expels eight
Joshua Gwitira, one of the eight students tn the Rhodesian project expelled recently for boy
cotting classes, explained his reasons fo> opposing the program at a meeting last Thursday.
by Neil Emerson
The eight students in the Rhodesian 
program who have been boycotting classes 
since November, have been expelled from 
the school, and have until December 31 to 
vacate their dormitory rooms.
SUPA Dean Otto Davis stated last week 
that expulsion was probable, since the 
students had not attended classes in over 
a month. He added that he had tried 
several times to get the students to return 
to class, but they were afraid to in light 
of derogatory comments they made 
about the program.
These students, who were involved in 
the privately funded program designed to 
train civil servants, claimed that CMU and 
the companies funding the program were 
plotting to put pro-Western puppets 
in power in Rhodesia.
Davis and CMU President Richard 
Cyert both refute this claim. However, 
the students still feel CMU if obligated to 
maintain them in America, since they 
believe that CMU brought them here 
under false pretenses and to return home
Endowment campaign surpasses 50% mark
by Belinda Quan
A $35 million gift from an anonymous 
individual to be donated upon his death, 
initiated CMUs Investments ftfi Progress 
Campaign in which $60 million was raised 
in the past year.
The goal of the three year campaign is 
to raise $100 million for the CMU endow
ment fund by December 1979. According 
to John G. Johnson, director of the Cam
paign, the University needs to add to its 
resources. Investments for Progress will 
provide a reservoir of funds and help 
improve the level of excellence.
The Campagin will provide $60 million 
in new endowments CMU now has $110 
million in the endowment fund which 
ranks twenty-sixth in the nation.
Of the $60 million, $30 million will be
used to establish 30 new professorships 
including: one each in engineering or
science, one in Fine Arts, and two in 
GSIA. $15 million will be for unrestricted 
use, $10 million for scholarships, fellow
ships. and student loans; and $5 million 
for venture endowments.
In addition, $15 million will be used to 
improve facilities, another $15 million for 
purchasing equipment, and the Final $10 
million will be used for expendable funds.
The campaign is a bold one, Johnson 
stated,it is the largest endowment cam
paign ever in Pittsburgh and the second 
largest in Pennsylvania. The University 
of Pennsylvania had the largest state 
campaign; trying to raise $235 million.
Corporations have contributed about
$10 million to the campaign. Among 
them, U.S. Steel and Gulf Oil each gave 
$2 million and $500,000 was given by both 
IBM and Alcoa. The $35 million gift was 
the largest one from an individual. The 
Richard K. Mellon Foundation also con
tributed $2.5 million and the Heinz Family 
and Endowment gave $700.000.
Alumnis from 40 major cities in the 
U.S. are being asked to give a total of $7 
million this year in the Alumni Challenge, 
a second part of the campaign.
Mr. Johnson believes that alumni and 
friends of CMU can meet 
the $100 million goal of Investments for 
Progress by December, 1979. The last 
25% (of the money) is hardest to raise 
but we are going to succeed.
Snow inspires winter fun
in light of the controversy would be dan
gerous, possibly fatal.
Davis, on the other hand, feels that 
CMU has an obligation to maintain the 
students only as long as they remain in 
the program.
Davis also said he will have to notify 
immigration officials that these Rho
desians are no longer CMU students, and 
that 'h;c ->->uld possibly lead to deporta
tion proceedings. But Davis does not 
believe th:i> will occur.
Schatz explains 
short exam period
by Brian Byrnes
This years four-day final examination 
schedule may be too tough, according to 
Edward Schatz, vice president of Academic 
Affairs.
The decision to reduce the schedule to 
four days was made in order to increase the 
number of class days in the semester. 
Schatz stated that the administration 
would like to have 75 class days per sem
ester.
This number had not been reached in 
recent years, and the administration made 
an attempt to attain the goal this year.
Schatz commented that the fall semes
ter schedule, as he sees it, should also be 
more leisurely, like the spring semester 
is.
He went on to say that there are longer 
breaks during Spring Carnival and spring 
vacation, and there are fewer restrictions as 
to when to start and end the semester. 
Schatz suggested that the fall term might 
start before Labor Day so that finals may 
not seem so rushed.
Schatz also explained why the finals
schedule is not determined at the same
time as the course schedule, as many other
colleges do. Th aid fhaf decision to
give a final in a course is otten made during
this semester. The Registrars Office, which
makes the schedule, does not have informacontinued on page 3inside
news...
Scobell room sizes to be reevaluated 
(P8- 2)
Cyert explains CMU position on 
Rhodesian Issue (pg. 5)
entertainment...
Close hmounters of a disappointing 
kind (pg. 17)
Robert Klein interviewed (pg. 17)
sports...
CMU beats Wooster (pg. 24)
folio...
TRY US GIRLS!!! (pg.9)
I 1
While peace reigned on some parts of campus during Thursday night's snowstorm, as in the scene above, the Morewood section of campus w;nc 
scene of a snowball fight. Students from Morewood Gardens and the Hill ganged up to attack the ATO fraternity. Security forces md 
Oean Swank arrived on the scene to dissipate the crowds. One Security officer is quoted as saying that Security was called in to insure against poss be 
injuries resulting from the snowball battle.

---------------------------------------------------

page 2TARTANDecember 13, 1977
New hairstyling salon opens on campus
by Linda Deak
The Clip Joint, formerly the Campus 
Barber Shop, is the new campus hairstyling 
salon which caters to both the students 
wallet and taste.
Under the ownership of Suzanne Cupelli, 
The Clip Joint specializes in mens hair 
styling with prices ranging from $3.50 to 
$6, depending on hair length. Cupelli feels, 
By setting a low price, it will draw in 
people who want a good cut, but who also 
wont pay the ridiculous prices of other 
salons.
Although Cupelli is principally a male 
hair stylist, she has hired a crew who is 
competent in womens hair styling and 
trimming. Darlene Culp is the expert in 
womens cuts at The Clip Joint, where 
permanents and hair dying are also avail
able.
Cupelli had been familiar with the Cam
pus Barber Shop, as she had worked with 
her father, Sam Lisanti, when he operated 
the shop for about a year. When Lisanti 
passed away last April, she was tempted to 
sell the shop, but decided to start a salon
which catered to the college crowd.
Cupellis brother, also a hairdresser, 
claims that the Campus Barber Shop had at 
one time ibeen very busy when the butch 
cut was popular. Throughout the years, 
Jhairst^lesbecam^Jo^^
who were familiar with butch didnt 
know anything about styling. Hopefully, 
The Clip Joint will erase that image. 
The new salon is located on Margaret 
Morrison Street, in the basement of the 
Woodlawn Apartments._________________
INTRODUCING THE 
RANDOM HOUSE 
ENCYCLOPEDIA.
i The first one-volume encyclopedia designed 
for the entire family, with thousands of 
brilliant color illustrations.
i The first encyclopedia in which pictures are 
truly integrated with text to convey in
formation more clearly than ever before. Of 
more than 13,800 pictures, over 11,000 are in 
full color. Its 2,856 pages also include an 80- 
page Atlas, 48-page Time Chart, 25,000 indepth entries, all organized to be easily used.
The most exciting encyclopedia ever 
published. A unique resource for learning and 
a unique pleasure to read. $69.95.
REDUCED TO $59.95 UNTIL 
CHRISTMAS
< mu < m kvli re
P" Q. booil. a
I M. C. ESCHER 
' KALEIDOCYCLES
I Much of the appeal and fascination of M 
Escher s graphic work lie in its mesmerizing 
i repeating designs. Now a mathematician and 
~  graphic designer have given Escher's 
ssigns new dimensionliterallyby 
) creating kaleidocyclesamazing, ringlike, 
f/k three-dimensional forms decorated with KSJ 
Escher s works. When rotated through their ^ 
aH centers they show dazzling 3-D kaleidoscopic
AM And now Ballantine has token an inj novative step to present these kaleidocycles ^ 
in a unique, fun-filled do-it-yourself package. Ry 
KO Here are seventeen "Escher sculptures" prin- nS| 
Vglted in full color (based on Escher's own 
wjcolorings) on heavy stock, already die-cut and 
scored for easy removal and folding, and oc- wt. 
jPycompanied by simple assembly instructions.
A fascinating text describes the discovery 
Mand evolution of kaleidocycles. and also M 
\SScovers Escher's own explorations of overall vA 
y A patterns in three dimensions. Many of the 
^^Escher illustrations are previously unW published.
$8.95
^ .MINI lM 4 k\l< 1C- ^
NEWS BRIEFS
New dorm receives zoning
The new dorm planned for Margaret 
Morrison Street has received zoning 
approval from the Pittsburgh City Council.
The dormitory, planned to alleviate 
overcrowded conditions on campus and 
eliminate the need for off-campus univer
sity housing, will accomodate 192 stu
dents. Part of the new dormitory space 
will be set aside for sororities.
Criticism over the dorm started after 
it was learned that existing housing was 
torn down before approval was received 
on the new construction.
Furthermore, the necessary approval 
by the Planning Commission was stalled
for several weeks when controversy arose 
over the setback variances and fire codes. 
Original plans had set the new dormitory 
too close to existing buildings. Also, the 
building had to be altered to accommodate 
an extra fire stairwell.
The Commission gave approval to the 
project November 22, clearing the way for 
City Council zoning approval. However, 
delays due to red tape have pushed the 
scheduled occupancy date back from 
September, 1978 to January, 1979, at the 
earliest. Bill Dillon, Director of Auxili
ary Services, guarentees occupancy by 
September, 1979.
SARC plans career forums
The Student-Alumni Relations Commit
tee (SARC) made plans for second semes
ter events during its November executive 
board meeting.
The career development committee re
commended that a series of career forums 
be held next semester to promote a better 
undestanding of occupational fields. Topics 
of interests are career demands and respon
sibilities, and job prospects in given fields.
The proposed forum for January is 
electrical engineering. Subsequent forums 
in economics, AMS and architecture are 
planned.
SARC also hopes to establish career 
day, in which alumni would meet with
students at booths to informally discuss 
various fields of occupation.
The freshman information committee 
suggested the programming of events 
throughout the year involving freshmen. 
The committee, which is responsible for 
distributing information packets to in
coming students, considered a career fair, 
parties and other social events.
In March, five students from each de
partment will participate in the SARC 
national conference in Washington, D.C. 
The objective of the meeting is to give 
representatives a better understanding of 
how students fit into the free enterprise 
system.
Spectroscopy Society of Pittsburgh 
December 14, 1977
COLLEGE GRANTS NIGHT
Honoring the 1977-1978 College Grant Recipients 
Speaker Dr. Charles L. Winek 
Professor of Toxicology, Duquesne University
CAREERS IN TOXICOLOGY
8:30 PM Duquesne University 
Mellon Science Building, Maurice Falk Lecture Hall 
MEETING OPEN TO ALL INTERESTED
????????????
The SDC space
by Stephanie Waite
At the last SDC meeting, held December 
4, Bill Dillon returned to answer questions 
about the dorm system.
Fielding questions in the continuing 
controversy over Scobell Hall, Dillon re
marked that Scobell rooms are going to be 
re-classified in terms of square feet. There 
will probably be two classes of rooms: 
standard double and budget double. The 
rooms will be re-measured during Christ
mas, and rated in terms of size and access 
to bath facilities. Re-classifications will 
not be retroactive. Dillon also added that 
sufficient space would become available 
next year to create a TV room in Scobell.
On the issue of the new dorm, Dillon 
said, All I can -say is there will be a new 
dorm by September of 1979. At least Hill 
residents wont have to worry about the 
noise that will result from the ground
breaking.
Hill residents had some complaints about the bad security on the Hill, feeling 
that Security forces were mostly centered 
around Morewood. Crime is down on all 
parts of the campus, Dillon explained, 
and we have no specific problems with 
the Hill.
Lastly, there were questions about why 
it has been made more difficult to change 
rooms this year. Dillon attributed the 
change to New director, new policies. 
Also, we are under pressure by Centrex to 
reduce room changes. We will make any 
reasonable change. Were concerned about 
game-playing: token room shifts so that
people can retain a room for room draw. 
This causes a big administrative mess.
Residence director Corey Chase added, 
Theres an educational aspect to it, too. 
Someone who cant get along with their 
roommate should perhaps try to talk it 
out, or they may just run into the same 
problems with their next roommate.
Bob Anderegg,. fire and safety director 
was displeased by the report in the last 
SDC Space that he could not be reached 
for comment on the Morewood fire alarms. 
Anderegg emphasizes that he can be 
reached at any time through the Security 
Office.
However, Tim Roscoe, SDC fire & 
safety committee chairman, reiterated that 
when he called Security to try and get 
Andereggs phone number, Security v/ould 
not give it to him. Also, Andereggs num
ber is not in either the old or new CMU dir
ectory. Roscoe commented, IfJ*e can be 
reached, I sure dont know how.
President Sam Grego announced that 
the $1 increase in the dorm activities fee 
has been officially approved. Van Horn has 
suggested that Senate look at SDCs bud
get before it is approved, a suggestion 
which was met with disapproval from 
council.
Grego also announced that Bill Dillons 
housing subcommittees will begin meeting 
shortly. The topics these committees will 
discuss include finances, distribution of 
students by sex in the dorms, and lounge 
facilities.
Lastly, Rich Tucker, intramural commitee head, made a motion to buy two 
each of footballs, soccer balls and basket
balls. which will be available for use by any 
dorm resident.
The SDC holds its meetings Sundays at 
6:30 in Skibo 100.
CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE 
1:00 - 5:00 PM Daily
SKIBO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

December 13, 1977TARTAN-page 3
*?????????**-
Senate murmurs
by Linda Deak
In another fun-packed meeting, the 
Student Senate passed the budgets for the 
Winter Activities Fair and Law Club, and 
recognized a Student Committee to Pro
mote the Arts, and the Group Against 
Apartheid in Southern Africa (GAASA).
Issues, including a special calculus III 
recitation for AMS majors, a forum for the 
Rhodesian Issue, and a tally of those who 
actually attended the Blood Drive dessert 
reception, were sent to various committees 
for discussion.
Speaking on behalf of the winter Ac
tivities Fair, Don Simon announced that 
the new event will be held January 12 in 
the ballroom from 126 PM. The budget 
included a Senate allocation of $194, but 
Simon claimed that all but $65 of that 
amount would be repaid if every T-shirt 
ordered for the Fair would be sold. The 
fair will be similar in concept to the Sep
tember Activities Fair.
Clubs present budgets, proposals
Paul Schoff, president of the Law Club, 
defended the large percentage of the clubs 
budget devoted to advertising and publica
tion, saying that it would be beneficial for 
the club to start out big, backed by a 
strong advertising campaign in order to in
crease membership.
Former senator Viv Kerstein attended 
the December 7 meeting to endorse The 
Student Committee to Promote the Arts. 
She explained, The committee plans to 
include all the arts, and concentrate on two 
basic activities. The first will be an under
graduate art show, which would be juried 
and awards given, and the second, a series 
of guest lecturers. Although the com
mittee has not yet presented a budget, they 
have been voted for supported status.
If the Rhodesian issue or South African 
apartheid has been bothering you, you 
might look into the newly formed group 
on campus, GAASA, which is devoted to 
discussing such issues. Rick Edahl, founder 
of the organization, claims that member
ship is limited to the CMU community.
Calculus recitation proposed
Carl Fetteroll asked Senate to support 
his motion reading Senate should encour
age special recitations to be offered to 
AMS students taking calculus III. John 
Tumazos, GSIA senator, felt that this was 
a good idea, since many topics in calculus 
III were Physics related, and AMS no long
er has a Physics requirement. Ken Meinert 
motioned to send this topic to Academic 
Affairs, for the F etteioil proposal was not 
supported by a majority of senators.
Elliot Ohlberg was unanimously chosen 
Chairman of Academic Affairs. He has the 
reputation for being very thorough, so 
Senate feels it is important to alert those 
involved in Academic Affairs.
Dave Roussos, Senate chairperson, will 
play mailman, and deliver a letter to the 
Faculty Senate, which asks them to choose 
a representative who will become an 
ex-officio member of Senate. Another let
ter will also be sent to members of GSIA 
encouraging their faculty to include 
student input when evaluating the AMS 
curriculum.
Senate scheduled its final fall semester 
meeting for Tuesday, December 13. at 6:30 
in the Wlierrett Room.
Page refuses interview
Robert Page, head of the Music Depart
ment refused an interview with a TARTAN 
reporter recently. When asked if he had 
any comments on the elimination ot the 
music education option. Page replied. "I 
have nothing further to say.*
Anti-apartheid group formed
by Elliot Ohlberg
The latest student organization to be
come recognized as non-supported by 
Student Senate is the Group Against 
Apartheid in Southern Africa (GAASA).
Rick Edahl. Judy Vitale, and Ken 
Hirschmugl are the three coordinators 
of the group. About fifteen students 
names are on the membership roster, 
but Edahl claims there are more who 
have not signed the list.
Edahl stated that basically GAASA 
opposes the apartheid system in south
ern Africa (mainly Rhodesia and South 
Africa), and supports selt-determination 
for the peoples of southern Africa.
President Cyert reflected on the admin
istrations belief that its healthy for a 
unit such as this to become active in 
promoting a sound cause.
I think its a good thing. It helps 
educate people outside the classroom. 
Student involvement in organizations like 
this, that have an aim to correct a wrong 
in society or what they believe is a wrong 
in the U.S. or other parts of the world
Exam time reduced
continued from page 1
tion on which classes will have finals until 
mid-semester. Also, faculty assignments for 
courses are not definite when schedules are 
formed.
The shorter finals schedule has had one 
positive effect, in that the number of 
exam conflicts has been reduced from 150 
last year to 60 this year. Registrar Harry 
Whitehead said that the limited finals 
period forced large classes to be given top 
priority in scheduling. Smaller departmen
tal courses were worked in afterwards, and 
professors were not allowed preferred 
times for their exams.
You dont like the shape Americas in?
O.K. change it.
You can. you know, in VISTA. VISTA 
needs volunteers in service to America. 
There's a lot to be done. Theres a lot you 
can do. And while you're doing so much for 
someone else, youll be doing a lot for 
yourself in VISTA. VISTA. It's the shape of 
things to come for America. Be part of 
it. Be part of VISTA.
Call toll free: 800-424-8580. Or write 
VISTA. Box A. Washington. l).C. 20525.VISTA
contributes to the education of such 
individuals, Cyert stated.
At the moment, despite GAASA s 
statement of overall purpose, Edahl does 
see the groups primary function as a 
student defense committee for the Rho
desian students on campus.
Edahl said that the Rhodesian students 
have agreed to participate in a GAASA 
sponsored debate on the issue with CMU
administrators, who have not yet been 
asked about it. (See Dec. 7 TARTAN).
SUPA Dean Otto Davis indicated that 
there is no reason to have such a debate. 
Davis hastened to add that SUPA does 
encourage anyone wishing to discuss the 
situation further to stop in or call him.
Edahl added that more planning will 
occur in January as to what GAASA might 
do to protest racial apartheid in Africa.
Looking for an MBA Program?
The M BA Program at the U niversity of North Carolina 
at Chapel Hill has an excellent national ranking. Why? 
A distinguished faculty, an outstanding student body, 
an innovative curriculum, and a reputation for quality 
among employers.
MBA Program 
The University of North Carolina 
at Chapel Hill 
Carroll Hall, 012-A, Drawer 5 
Chapel Hill, NC 27514
^iiiiniiiHiiimiiiioiiiniiiiiiiHimiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiHiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiHiiiiiiimniiiiiiiiimiimiiiiiimiiuiiuiiiiiiiiiHHiiiiwuiM^
HOBBIT -DESK CALENDAR 1978
THEHOBBITDESKCALENDAR
.j,
HOBBIT DESK CALENDAR o wonderful
calendor-diory-appointment book 
featuring 12 of J.R R. Tolkien s full-color 
paintings from THE HOBBIT. Each diary 
page is printed on rich colored stock, 
and eoch week is allotted o double page 
spread with lots of room for notes.
$*.5
 IMI lM 4 k\U IV*
Attention
ALL STUDENT CLUBS 
AND ORGANIZATIONS
 YOU ARE UP FOR REVIEW 
Copies of the Student Senate Rules Committee s 
club survey form is now available at the Skibo In
formation Desk. All clubs and organizations are 
required to complete the forms by 4:00 pm Wed
nesday, January 18, 1977 and present them to Carl 
Fetteroll, Rules Committee Chairperson, 103 Skibo 
Hall or 1071 Morewood Avenue.
All student Clubs and organizations must 
return the completed form by the assigned date or 
their budgets will be frozen and recognition 
revoked.
All questions should be directed to the Rules Com
mittee Chairperson or the Student Senate, 103 
Skibo Hall.

---------------------------------------------------

page 4TARTANDecember 13, 1977
Few groups enter contest
By Greg Middleman
Despite the fact that only eight of the 
fifteen organizations which signed up to 
decorate trees in the third annual Christ
mas Tree Decorating Contest actually 
decorated trees, contest chairman Jeff 
Harp was pleased with the results.
Harp stated that some groups said that 
they were too busy with school work, 
sinee it was the end of the semester, and 
did not have time to decorate a tree. 
Others just never showed up, Harp 
added.
Also the contest was not run as well 
as in the past, Harp explained, attrib
uting the problem to a change in adminis
tration in the Activities Office. He com
mented that they didnt know exactly 
how to do everything.
The contest, first held in 1975,
offers a challenge to organizations on 
campus to decorate a Christmas tree. 
After judges determine the best trees, 
the winners of the top three spots receive 
prizes.
This years winners include the Manbugs from second floor at Donner Hall 
taking first place with White Christmas, 
the little sisters of ZBT in second place, 
and 4E Morewood in third place with 
Old Fashioned Pretzels and Beer.
Harp said, the trees we got were 
really good. He felt that they showed 
the time and effort put into them.
The unused trees, ordered for the 
no-show organizations, cost $7.50 a 
piece. They have all been sold except 
two. The decorated trees will either be 
taken back by (he organizations decorating 
them, or donated to hospitals.
giiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiiamiuiiimagiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiuiDiiiuiiuiiiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiDiimiiiiiiiic^j 
i =
PREPARE FOR:MCAT ? DAT ? LSAT  GMAT IGRE  OCAT  VAT  SAT
i NMB I. II. IIIECFMGFLEXVQE I
NATL DENTAL BOARDS  NURSING BOARDS 1
Flexible Programs & Hours 
There IS a difference!!!
For Information Please Call:
661-2772 
ESSEX HOUSE 
NEGLEY & CENTER AVE.
-H.
N
EDUCATIONAL CENTER 
TEST PREPARATION 
SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938
The Manbugs from the second floor of Donner Hall won the Christmas Tree decorating contest 
with their tree, "White Christmas."
Reed to leave TARTAN
Outside N.Y. State Only CALL TOLL FREE: 800-223-1782
Centers In Major US Cities Toronto, Puerto Rico and Lugano, Switzerland
ciliiiaiiiiHtiiiiiaiiiiiiiniiiaiiiiiiHiiiianiiiiiHiiiQiiiiiiiiiiiiDitiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiniaiiimiiiiiiaiiiiiimiiiciiiiiI
Who are vou, telling us how to run our business?
It lakes a lot ol confidence to come 
fresh out of school and begm telling us 
how to do things
On the other hand, it takes an un
usual company to provide the kind of 
environment where that can happen, but 
that is exactly the environment you'll find 
at Scott Paper
We constantly search for people 
who have the ability to respond to chal
lenge and think for themselves, those 
with the initiative and desire to seek al
ternatives, the skill and courage to con
vince others that there are better ways 
and who aren't afraid to express their 
ideas
At Scott, we admire an aggressive 
stance because we are an aggressive 
company You can make your own op
portunities with us and we'll prove it
Contact your 
placement office 
for information.
SCOTT
an equal opportunity employer, m/f
Because she is graduating at the end of 
this semester, Brenda Lee Reed will give up 
her position as Managing Editor of the 
TARTAN one semester early. Reeds 
departure necessitates a major change in 
the TARTAN hierarchy.
The job of Managing Editor includes 
editing the Announcements section of the 
paper, overseeing the section editors 
work, and supervising the layout of the 
entire paper. According to Editor-inChief Sherry Siegel, Reed did an excellent 
job. Brenda was appointed after working 
only three weeks in Production, and 
nobody knew her or her work very well.
Asking her to be Managing Editor was a 
chance, but she turned out to be ama
zingly competent and dedicated.
Reed is graduating with a BFA in 
Painting, after spending her Freshman 
year at the University of Delaware as a 
History major. The 23-year old ex-Managing Editor plans to go back home to 
Philadelphia, where she will look for a 
job in the magazine and newspaper fields.
When asked about her years at CMU, 
Reed answered, Im sorry to leave my 
friends.
She will be succeeded by Timothy 
Shields, who is studying Production in 
the Drama Department.
MASTER IN PUBLIC POLICY
HARVARD UNIVERSITY
Interdisciplinary program-economics, quantitative and 
analytic methods, political analysis, and public manage
mentas preparation for a career in public service. Aca
demic rigor plus real-world applications. Outstanding 
academic credentials required.
Write: Kennedy School of Government
Harvard University 
Cambridge, Mass. 02138
Application Deadline: Jan. 15, 1978
"OUR WAY OF SAYING MERRY CHRISTMAS INTRODUCO GHEEAD
DECEMBER 15th 
KILTIE CAFE/MOREWOOD
If you have questions, comments, suggestions, or criticisms about FOOD SERVICE,
Ramanan

---------------------------------------------------

December 13, 1977TARTANpage 5
Cyert responds to Rhodesians
Following is the letter from President Cyert to members of the CMU 
community which states his position on the Rhodesian controversy.
Dear Colleague:
As you are aware, a certain amount of public attention has been genera
ted concerning the Rhodesian project in our School of Urban and Public 
Affairs.
The program was begun because Carnegie-Mellon University believed it 
could make a significant contribution through education to the stability of 
the Rhodesian government when majority rule prevails, regardless of which 
of the various African leaders gains power. This mission, I believe, is appropri
ate for a great university. With this objective in mind, we launched a drive to 
raise funds from corporations and foundations, our usual mix, to finance the 
project. We were successful enough to allow us to begin the program, though 
the fund raising activity has had to continue.
The Rhodesian students are enrolled in the same educational program that 
is offered to our other students. They take the same core curriculum and 
attend the same classes. The program is designed to educate professional 
problem solvers and to give them modern management skills and techniques 
that can be utilized in a variety of situations. The aim of the SUPA program 
has always been to educate bureaucrats in the very best sense of that term. 
We are not educating mayors, governors, legislators, or others who aspire to 
elected office.
The 25 Rhodesian students were chosen strictly on the basis of academic 
quality, including an assessment of their performance on the same Graduate 
Record Examination required of all other applicants. The present perform
ance of the Rhodesian students is evaluated on the same academic basis as 
all other SUPA students.
Eight of the students have claimed that the program is politically moti
vated. They base their claims on the fact that the program is supported in 
part by corporate funds and also on the way the program has bpen reported 
in some of the news media.
In regard to the funding, the students were told prior to the start of the 
program that it was being supported in part by funds from corporate sour
ces, as well as from foundations and the University. We would obviously 
refuse any funding that attempted to control curriculum. Control of the 
curriculum for the program in which the Rhodesians are enrolled, as well 
as all the University's academic programs, rests with the administration and 
the faculty.
As far as the news coverage is concerned, the students feel that the impres
sion has been given in some articles that they are being groomed to be poli
tical leaders. Carnegie-Mellon University, of course, cannot be responsible 
for misrepresentation by the press. The type of education the Rhodesian 
students are receiving will give them skills that will be applicable in a number 
of government agencies in positions that would be the equivalent of our 
civil service jobs in this country. These skills can be used without regard 
to politics and the University has never stated or intended that these students 
should return to become political leaders in their country. In fact, the stu
dents are not even required to work in government when they return to 
Rhodesia. The only commitment they made before coming to the U.S. was 
that they would return to Rhodesia at the completion of the program.
Personally, I am saddened by the recent developments. Because of the 
behavior of the eight students (reportedly there was outside influence) the 
program has been badly hurt. It is now unlikely that we will get some of the 
foundation funding that is pending and that will limit our ability to do the 
best possible job with this group. More than that, however, an important 
opportunity for Rhodesia, and most especially the Africans, is being par
tially lost. The whole sequence of events is particularly regrettable since 
three of the four political leaders have agreed to offer opportunities to the 
graduates in the government bureaucracy should they come to power. The 
fourth leader, Mugabe, could not be contacted in Mozambique. Dean Davis 
has talked to some of Mugabe's people in New York, however, and they 
have indicated their support for the program.
Finally, it should be reemphasized that 16 students are still in the program 
and doing well. (One student has gone back to Rhodesia for personal reasons.) 
The eight have been dropped from the program since they refuse to attend 
class or take exams. This action was taken on the basis of a review and the 
recommendation of the SUPA faculty. The students have also been instructed 
to vacate their dormitory rooms by December 31. I believe the University 
has behaved in the manner required to uphold our academic standards. Under 
no circumstances should the disaffection of a small group of students be 
allowed to change our purpose nor our humanitarian commitment to attempt 
to provide expertise to an emerging nation. Neither will we be deterred in 
the future from undertaking projects that we believe are consistent with our 
educational and research objectives.
Ileui Horizons at Uai
^ Enter CLAIROLS world of innovating career experiences as part^ 
of our engineering management staff. Challenging opportunities 
await you in our Operations Management Program.
 Process Engineers  Project Engineers  Industrial Engineers
 Production & Warehouse Supervision
 Production Planning & Material Control
Our representatives will be on campus...
ON JANUARY 16, 17. & 18
at the Placement Office
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F
SILENCE IS DEADLY.
When someone drinks too 
much and then drives, its the 
silence that kills. Your silence.
' It kills your friends, your 
relatives, and people you don't even 
know. But theyre all people you 
could save.
If you knew what to saw 
maybe you'd be less quiet. Maybe 
fewer people would die.
What you should say is. "111 
drive you home." Or. "Let me call a 
cab. Or. "Sleep on my couch 
tonight.
Dont hesitate because your 
friend may have been drinking only 
beer. Beer and wine can be just as 
intoxicating as mixed drinks.
And dont think that black 
coffee will make him sober. Black 
coffee never made anyone sober. 
Maybe it would keep him awake 
long enough to have an accident. 
But thats about all.
The best way to prevent a 
drunk from becoming a dead drunk 
is to stop him from driving.
Speak up. Dont let silence 
be the last sound he hears.
niuNknimiiK.nm. D
HOX 2:145
IUKKVII 1.1 . MAKYI A\l)2t<52
I I I
| 1 don't w .int to rt'm.un silonl. 
| Toll m< vxh.it els*-1 can ito.
I Vl.lt. . _____ |
jjltv-  . S.ul._ /,,,
FRIENDS DONT LET FRIENDS 
DRIVE DRUNK.e
call the FOOD SERVICE DIRECTORS HOT LINE, X2127, Monday 5pm-6pm.
A
Richard M. Cyert
Only 11 
Shoppi no 
days 'fill 
Christmas!
- J.G.S.
/ter f/ k
Close

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN
Scrooge lives
Another year is almost down the tubes, and are we going 
to sit back and reminisce, saying, well, CMU has its bad 
points, but it has its good points, too? We sure arent: 
there's plenty wrong with CMU, and were not going to get 
sappy about the place just because Christmas is coming and 
the Christmas spirit should be upon us. Bah! to the 
Christmas spirit, we say.
First lets complain about the little things that are usually 
overlooked because were busy complaining about the big 
things:
Why are the lights alongside the front steps of Skibo al
ways out? Maneuvering those poorly designed steps at night 
is especially treacherous in this icy season. If the lights are 
out because students break them, then another way should 
be found to illuminate the area. All of us shouldnt have to 
tip-toe in fear just because some students get their jollies by 
being destructive.
And speaking of ice, attempts made so far to dear the 
walks have been unacceptable. It seems that Maintenance 
has gone out of its way to avoid clearing the walks around 
More wood.
Why does the food remain so bad in the cafeterias? Why 
is service so inconsistent, but usually interminably slow, at 
the Grill? And why doesnt the Grill make it known that 
customers are entitled to free lettuce and tomato with every 
Tartan burger and Tripledecker that they order?
Why is it so cold in Skibo? Isn t heat included in the price 
of attending CMU?
On to bigger complaints:
Why are final exams scheduled so late?
Wny are this ytai s students being muue to pay installa
tion fees for Centrex, when future CMU students will also 
reap its benefits? Housing should absorb this cost. Its not 
fair that we pay for future CMU students.
Now lets get to the meaty issues:
Why has tuition for next year been raised $300? No 
satisfactory explanation has been offered. CMU is running 
in the black, officials have high hopes for the Investments 
In Progress campaign; where is this $300 going, and cant 
it be found in a place other than the students pockets?
What is being done to improve facilities in Fine Arts? 
This year, as in past years, the architects, artists, and musi
cians remain poor stepchildren to the almighty computer. 
But perhaps the aforementioned $300 will be going towards 
a new Fine Arts center?
Why does Mr. Page remain silent on the decision to phase 
out the Music Education option? Exactly how does CMU 
plan on phasing out the option? And why hasnt an apology 
been offered for how students were (finally) informed of 
the decision?
Why did it take the administration so long to speak about 
the Rhodesian situation? And why were the bomb scares han
dled so casually? Securitys actions were more than just 
a bit risky. The explanation offered was. not reassuring in 
light of what might have and what could have happened.
And why do most students continue to ignore Student 
Senate, which is the place to bring all these complaints?
Beats us. Merry Christmas.
With this issue, Brenda Reed makes her last appearance 
as Managing Editor of the TARTAN. We want to thank her 
for the great deal of time she spent working with us, her 
common sense and excellent judgment, her tact and diplo
macy, and for letting us enjoy her irrepressible sense of 
humor.
Brenda expanded the job of Managing Editor to its limits 
and broke through the constraints of her title. She wrote, 
edited, and illustrated, in addition to overseeing the design 
and layout of the paper.
We wish her the best of luck in her future, and hope that 
she will remember her days and friends at the TARTAN as 
fondly as they will remember her.
This is the last issue of the TARTAN this year. The 
next issue will come out on January 17, 1978. Good 
luck with finals, have happy and safe vacations, and 
Happy New Year.
Sherry Siegel 
Editor-in-Chief
Letters
TARTAN praised
Editor:
I commend you and the writers 
of the TARTAN on the last issue. 
It presented impressive coverage 
on important issues such as the 
Rhodesian controversy, the new 
Copyright Revision Act of 1976, 
and an attractive Saucy Sopho
more, Teri Hope. Keep up the 
good work!
Danni Smith
xxxxoooo
Editor:
Line up boys! We all want to 
give the Housing and Maintenance 
Office a great big Christmas 
kiss for prompdy answering our 
complaints. On Monday, Decem
ber 5 at 1:00 PM, we filled out 
a maintenance request form com
plaining about several problems in 
our Woodlawn apartment, with 
no heat at the top of the 
list. We all were amazed to return 
from classes the following morn
ing to find a greenman already
at work. Not only did he fix our 
heat, but he went on to replace 
the drain under our kitchen 
sink which had been leaking since 
September. He also ordered new 
faucets for our shower, a new 
dining room chair to replace a 
broken one, and supplied us 
with a dozen lightbulbs. We have 
to admit truthfully that we never 
expected such quick service. Peo
ple here are so quick to criti
cize maintenance; rarely do they 
receive any praise. So wed like 
to say thank you and Merry 
Christmas. (Pucker up Bill 
Blue!) XXXOOOOO
Linda Deak 
Marsha Fairbrother 
Diana Hulik 
Holly Smith
Music Ed Opinion 
Editor:
The recent decision to elimin
ate the music education option 
has unleashed a flood of words 
and ink, and, while supporters of 
the decision are rarer than sup
porters of the PLO, I hope that 
the other side of the issue could
be allowed to air its point of view.
To begin with, it is true that 
the administration-and not at any 
one level-could not have handled 
the announcement of the decision 
in a more inept fashion. But the 
unfortunate thing that has hap
pened is that criticism of the an
nouncement of the decision is 
being offered-and taken-as criti
cism of the decision itself, so that 
the fundamental issues are now 
hopelessly confused in the ex
treme emotion and verbosity aroused.
An illustration of this is the 
November 15 edition of the TAR
TAN, in which nearly two pages 
of opinion against the music edu
cation decision were offered, two 
pages of valid and serious ques
tions entangled with inaccuracies, 
non sequiturs and irrelevancies.
One letter, printed anonymous
ly, set out its case in neat outline 
form. The authors first point was 
that if CMU moves toward a con
servatory curriculum, we will 
only become another conserva
tory. On the other hand, music
continued on page 7
TARTAN
Volume 78December 13, 1977Number 14
Editor in Chief: 
Managing Editor: 
Business Manager: 
News Editor: 
Entertainment Editor: 
Folio Editor: 
Sports Editor: 
Photography Editor:
Sherry Siegel 
Brenda Reed 
Ellen J. Silverman 
Saul Carliner 
Casey umids 
Jeffrey Zaslow 
Michael Jocnmann 
V.R.V. Ramanan
Assistant News Editor: 
Photography staff:
Linda Deak
Brian Batchelder, Mike Bergman, Skip Brazelton, Greg Lebowit?, 
George Lecomte. Chris Morrow, Steve Salagaller, Mark Segal
Copyright 1977 by the Carnegie-Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit or 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Govern
ment of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; (412) 578- 
2000 ext. 2111 or 2112. Business Offices: Skibo 52; (412) 578-2111.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

---------------------------------------------------

The Rhodesian controversy: SUPA Dean speaksVIEWS
by Otto A. Davis,
Dean, SUPA
Without doubt, most of you 
have been made aware, in one way 
or another, that for more than a 
month eight students from Zim
babwe (Rhodesia) have not at
tended classes or participated in 
any way in the educational pro
gram in which they were enrolled. 
We have witnessed rallies to 
condemn our Rhodesian project. 
Posters of condemnation have 
been distributed on our campus 
and on another campus in the 
City. We have found ourselves 
threatened with violence. In the 
paragraphs below I would like to 
attempt to explain my under
standing of how we got into this 
situation and what I believe the 
future holds for this project and 
our campus.
Let me begin in January of this 
year when we began seriously con
sidering the basic ideas associated 
with our Rhodesian project. It 
was during that month that 
Norman Johnson, an Associate 
Dean of SUPA, visited Rho
desia to attempt to assess whether 
such a project might be feasible. 
After Norman returned, he was 
extremely enthusiastic about the 
possibility and I was somewhat 
skeptical. Nevertheless, the basic 
notion of bringing people here for
* training in our Masters program in 
Public Management and Policy 
seemed attractive to us for several 
reasons. First, one of the most 
important components of our 
educational philosophy in SUPA 
is a commitment to involvement 
with the larger society. We have 
tried to avoid becoming an Ivory 
Tower and instead have sought
to bring real world problems into 
the curriculum in all 6f our 
courses, but especially our project 
courses, and into our research 
program. Second we felt that we 
had arrived at a time in which we 
should be looking for a way to 
expand our program into the 
international sphere. We had ex
amined and rejected several such 
possibilities and this appeared to 
us to be a very attractive oppor
tunity. Third, we believe that an 
important part of our basic 
mission is to educate people who 
have a chance of working upon 
important problems in our society 
and our world. Given a wide
spread belief that Rhodesia will 
achieve majority rule within the 
next few years, given that both 
the Nkomo and Muzorewa fac
tions had informally expressed an 
interest in and stated a need formore Letters
continued from page 6
education has always been unique 
to Camegie-Mellon. Music edu
cation is not unique to CarnegieMellon, not even in Pittsburgh. 
Like most education programs, 
music education is commonly the 
property of state universities. As 
for the argument that we will be
come only another conserva
tory, well, we might as well shut 
down CIT and MIS because, after 
all, with Stanford and MIT 
around, we are just another tech
nical school.
The unsigned letters second 
point is that nearly 100% of graduating music education majors 
find jobs. If the number of em
ployed graduates is to be taken as 
a criterion for the maintenance of 
a department or option, then 
most of CFA and a good chunk of 
H&SS will also go down the drain. 
We have now closed down most of 
the university by the arguments of 
the anonymous music student.
The letter then goes into a de
tailed discussion of the music de
partments facilities. We should 
all bear in mind that no onestudents, faculty or administration-is claiming that the depart
ments facilities are first-rate or
even adequate. Moreover, a large 
part of the issue is irrelevant to 
the issue at hand: The depart
ment needs more pianos and prac
tice rooms regardless of the state 
of music education.
The writer criticizes the condi
tion of the practice rooms: It 
is impossible for a serious per
former to put in the necessary 
study required of him under these 
conditions. (i.e., the lack of 
soundproofing). The serious per
formers at CMU would do well to 
remember that it was not so long 
ago at the Paris Conservatory that
continued on page 23
the kind of training which we can 
provide, given that we believed 
the other factions also had a 
desire for such training, and given 
that we believed that the neces
sary money could be found, we 
decided in June that the possibi
lity merited very serious explo
ration.
For all of the above reasons, 
Norman and I visited Rhodesia 
in July. The rest is now history. 
We did find a widespread belief 
that majority rule would arrive 
within the reasonably near future 
and we thought that we perceived 
a need for the kind of training 
which SUPA can provide. We de
cided to go ahead and we devised 
a selection mechanism based 
strictly upon academic grounds 
performance on the Graduate Re
cord Examination and perfor
mance in a special selection course. 
We believed then and we believe 
now that the Rhodesian project 
is an important undertaking for 
our School and our University. We 
believed that it was sufficiently 
important that we would go 
ahead and begin without having 
the necessary money in hand. We 
had faith in our ability to raise it. 
We recognized that this was a kind 
of risk not usually undertaken by 
an academic institution but that 
this particular case merited such 
risk-taking behavior.
The twenty-five students 
arrived with some fanfare at the 
end of August. They took part in 
our regular orientation and were 
integrated into our regular class. 
Now we found ourselves in a situ
ation in which eight of these stu
dents have disassociated them
selves from the program. How did 
we arrive in such a position?
It is important to realize that 
none of the students, not even the 
eight, have complained about the 
content of the program. The 
content of the courses has never 
been' identified as a problem. 
Instead, the eight students per
ceive that the program has an 
image which requires them to be 
disassociated from it. I believe that 
their perception caused them to 
have their original news con
ference and stop their partici
pation in the educational pro
gram.
How did the eight Zimbab
weans come to believe that we 
had such a bad image that they 
felt it necessary to cease participa
tion in our educational program? I 
must admit here that I have diffi
culty in understanding how eight 
persons might come up to such 
a conclusion while sixteen others 
continue their educational effo: 
in the program. However, I must 
admit that the publicity associa
ted with the program wasto put 
it mildlysomewhat less than ac
curate. Apparently, some reporters 
simply could not resist the temp
tation to embellish their stories 
by substituting such words as 
leaders for civil servants. The 
entire SUPA program is aimed at 
producing highly qualified profes
sional bureaucrats in the best 
sense of that term. But, bureau
crats apparently does not make 
nearly as exciting reading as other 
images, so our aims were distor
ted in the publicity. We were also 
misquoted extensively, but we
continued on page 22ANNOUNCEMENTS
DEADLINE: NOON WEDNESDAY for all 
announcements and classified ads.
general
INTERCULTURAL HOUSE: Openings
for all types of students, women and men, 
black, white and international students 
to live in a home-like environment. Only 
$640/term (15 weeks). Includes carpfeted 
and furnished room, all meals, program 
activities, recreational facilities. 272 North 
Dithridge683-6145
"See it as it is," a free talk of Christian
Science for the public will be held on 
Sunday in the Church edifice (off Fifth 
Avenue in Oakland). The speaker is Nancy
E. Houston, a member of the Christian 
Science Board of Lectureship.
InterVarsity will have its Annual Christ
mas Party on Wednesday Dec. 14 at 7:00 
in Skibo Room 39. Come and Fellowship 
and celebrate Christ's Birthday.
Courses in communication skills, the en 
vironment, figure drawing, the legend of
King Arthur and audio visual equipment 
are among those being offered during Point 
Park College's Mini-Term, Jan. 3 to 27.
For registration information, contact: 
The Office of Part-Time Studies, Point 
Park College, Wood Street, Pittsburgh, 
15222 or call 391-4100.
Professor Gunter Schmitz of the State 
University of New York at Buffalo, the 
School of Architecture and Environmental 
Design, will speak on ''Industrialized 
Building and User Involvement," in a 
lecture to be given Friday, Dec. 16, at 
3:00 PM in 207G, Porter Hall.
Jobs available at the Student Employment
OfficeRent a Tech!!! Part-time positions 
available at laboratories: students wanted 
to help in breeding, feeding and caring 
for lab animals. Hours are flexible must 
have transportation to the North Hills. 
Music students needed to play classical 
piano in cocktail lounge. Dishwashers, 
waitresses and waiters needed at local 
restaurant. Hours are 5 to 10 weekdays,
5 to 12 weekends. Salary is $2.50/hour 
+ tips. Local firm looking for architecture 
student to read and interpret blueprints. 
Some experience is desired. Free room and 
board in exchange for babysitting and 
some chores in local home. Elderly women 
looking for student to help with meal 
preparation and some shopping. Hours 
would be 4:30 to 7:00, Monday to Friday.
If interested in these or other parttime positions, contact the Student Em
ployment Office in Skibo, room 58 or call
682-5482. Office hours are 10:30 to 
2:30 and 6 to 9 Monday through Friday. 
This' is a service free to CMU students 
sponsored by Student Corporation.
The Museum of Art, Carnegie Institute,
and the Carnegie Museum of Natural 
History will be closed Christmas Day. 
Sunday, Dec. 25 and Monday, Dec. 26, 
as well as New Year's Day, Sunday, Jan. 1 
and Monday, Jan. 2. The entire staff of 
Carnegie Institute and its Board of Trustees 
wishes the public Happy Holidays.
Professor Charles Eastman of the Institute
of Planning, Carnegie Mellon University, 
will speak on ''Design Methodology" in a 
lecture to be give Wednesday Dec. 14, at 
12:30 PM, in 207G, Porter Hall.
TO ALL FOREIGN STUDENTS AT CMU:
If you plan to travel outside of the United 
States during the Christmas, holidays, 
remember that you need an l20 form to 
re-enter. Since I will be out-of-town from 
Dec. 17th until January 3rd, please come 
to my office before Dec. 16th if you will 
need an I-20. -Mrs. Mary Stockton, 
Foreign Student Advisor, Warner Hall 611 
An Assessment of the Impact of Lobbying 
on Decision-making in the U.S. Congress, 
1975-76" will be discussed by Richard 
A. Smith, University of Rochester, on 
Wednesday, Dec. 14, at 3:00 PM, in Baker 
Hall 246A. Sponsored by the Social 
Sciences Seminar Series.
Traditional and ethnic ornaments will 
adorn the trees in the 10th annual Christ
mas exhibition sponsored by the Women's 
Committee of the Museum of Art, Carnegie 
Institute. The trees will be on display from 
Dec. 8 through Dec. 31, in Architecture 
Hail.
Carnegie Insiitiii? is <>!>in daily, Tues
day through . Saturday li om 10-5, and 
Sunday from 1-6. The Institute is closed 
on Christmas Day.
"The Congress and Executive Reorganiza
tion" will be discussed by Dr. Claude 
Barfield, Member of the Senate Committee 
on Governmental Affairs, on Tuesday, 
December 13, at 3:30 PM, in Baker Hall 
246A. Sponsored by the College of Human
ities and Social Sciences and the School 
of Urban and Public Affairs.
CARL FETTEROLL, Senator of the Col
lege of Administration & Management 
Science will have open office hours for 
students, Wednesdays from 3:00 to 5:00. 
Call 682-9455 for appointment.
THE ALTERNATIVE COFFEE HOUSE
will feature Mike Crevak and Salty Salsgiver, guitar and vocal arrangements of 
original folk music this Friday. Located 
in the Lutheran University Center, 4515 
Forbes Ave. THE ALTERNATIVE pre
sents live entertainment and interesting 
snacks each Friday night from 8:00 PM 
to midnight. THE ALTERNATIVE will 
be closed on Dec. 23 and Dec. 30 for 
Christmas recess, but will reopen on 
Jan. 6, 1978 with Jim Corr, Irish Folk 
Musician and an ALTERNATIVE "Irish 
Night." For information, call 682-6882 
SHYNESS GROUP: A group designed to
help people begin to understand and come 
out of their shyness. Please call Dr. Pam 
Freeman at Ext. 2922 or stop in the 
Counseling Center, 135 Baker Hall, to 
make an appointment with her if you are 
interested. Group size is limited.
PSI, Graduate School of Professional 
Psychology. Applications are currently 
being accepted for our PhD program in 
Clinical-Counseling Psychology. Existen
tial-humanistic emphasis. State approved 
for professional license. Write for free 
brochure, current catalogue $1.00. Dr. 
George Muench, Director, Dr. Peter Koestenbaum. Dean. PSI College Avenue, Palo 
Alto, California 94306.
A Phi O is coordinating a Scout swim
program to give young scouts, boys and 
girls, exposure to swimming. If you have 
passed the Water Safety Instructor's 
course, wo need you to volunteer for 
instructing beginning swimmers for six 
Saturday mornings next semester. For 
more info, contact Cate Van Meter, c/o 
A Phi O Campus Mail Box 100

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTS^CLASSIFIED ADS
DEADLINE: NOON WEDNESDAY!
Classified rate: $1.00 for every 15 words. 
Announcements are FREE.
general
Carnegie Institute will be offering the fol
lowing holiday events: from Dec. 13
through Jan. 6 two trees representing 
Carnegie Institute and one for the Carnegie 
Library of Pittsburgh will be on view at 
the Allegheny County Court House Gallery, 
hours are from 8:30 to 4:30 daily. From 
Dec. 13 through Jan. 8, there will be an 
Antique Yule Tree Exhibition at the 
Carnegie Museum of Natural History. 
Hours for the museum are 10 to 5, Tuesday 
through Saturday, and 1 to 6 on Sunday. 
Pittsburgh Oratorio Society will be offering 
a free concert at Architecture Hall in the 
Museum of Art at Carnegie Institute on 
Dec. 17 at 4 PM. There will be a free holi
day organ concert given by Paul Koch 
the Music Hall in Carnegie Institute on 
Dec. 18 at 3 PM. The Museum of Art will 
offer tours focusing on Nativity and 
Christmas themes found in paintings from 
the permanent collection. The tours will 
be on Dec. 13, 15, 16, 22, 27, and 29 at 
1:30 PM.
Entropy will close after business hours
on Sunday, Dec. 18. It will re-open Sun
day, January 8 at 5:00 PM.
"The management and staff of Entro
py wishes you a safe and happy holiday 
season."
scholarships awards prizes
Women students who are planning to
study abroad in the summer between their 
junior and senior years are eligible to 
apply for the VIRA L. HEINZ TRAVEL 
AWARD. This award provides $2500 to 
a woman student at Carnegie-Mellon Uni
versity through the Pittsburgh foundation 
as a result of a gift of Mrs. Vira L. Heinz, 
a trustee emerita of the institution.
Application forms are available in Dean 
Coxs office. Room 204, Warner Hall.
The deadline for submitting completed 
applications is Jan. 31. Applicants will 
be requested to be present for an inteiview with the Selection Committee on 
Feb. 25. The award will be announced 
immediately thereafter.
Wanted: Executive Director, Pitts
burgh Community Service Organization 
$14,000.00$18,500.00, depending on 
qualifications. Unique, creative opportunity 
to provide executive leadership in the 
development of the organization and im
plementation of its policies and projects. 
Position requires degree in public admini
stration, community organization, business 
management, law or related field, with 
experience. Broad-based, community con
trolled organization. Send resume and re
ferences to Squirrel Hill Urban Coalition, 
2012 Murray Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pennsyl
vania 15217.
Lost in Science Hall: Silver necklace with
sabre claw. Reward. Call 687-2159
Typing - extra work done quickly, accur
ately, and reasonably priced, call 682 
5075 after 5:30 PM.
Original Wedding Bands, Why buy mass
produced rings? Have your own unique 
design created. 243-5458
Wanted: Waiters and Waitresses for Antonino's. 412 South Craig St. Call: 681-7256
Typing in my homecall 243-3029
after 6 PM.
Florian's Hairstyling Salon of Vienna
Super haircutting for girls and guys. 15% 
Discount for college students. 1831 Mur
ray Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15217 Call: 
152-9900
Designer/SeamstressWill make custom
made clothing, alterations, or repairs. 
Graduate of Syracuse, clothing design. 
681-7766
University Graphics now offering chic
tatoo service. Come after hours. Original 
designs in odd places.
New GuitarsGibson, Fender, Martin, Ovation, and more. For 3040% off list, 
call 578-4069
classified
clubs
The METALS CLUB will hold their annual
Christmas party on Thursday, Dec. 15 at 
the B<;lci Tlu.-lci En fraternity house at 8:00 
PM Come and help celebrate the holiday 
snas<n. All students and everyone 
WELCOME!!
Coffee yogurt loversATTENTION! Can
we bear to have this best of all Dannon 
flavors represented by a mere 75 lids in 
th<; cdehrated lid collection of Mr. Chris 
Moriondo No! Send your coffee-flavor 
lids to Pi Lambda Phi through campus 
mail. Just mark the address on the 
back. (For further details on this intol
erable situation, see FOLIO.)
Found - young cat, early Tuesday AM in
front of Morewood Gardens. Respond Rm. 
19, Sigma NU.
Lost: Medium Sized Dog with Shepherd
Markings. Answers to Echo. Call Bob or 
Richard at 681-1223. Reward.
ADVENT COMMUNAL CELEBRATION 
OF PENANCE AND RECONCILIATION
Tuesday December 13 8:00 P.M.
Heinz Chapel - Traditional and 
Folk Music
SUNDAY MASSES:
7:00 P.M. Saturday Folk Mass Hunt Library
10:30 A.M. Folk Mass Multipurpose Room
12:00 Noon Solemn LiturgyHeinz Chapel
DAILY MASSES Monday through Friday
12:30 Noontime CMU's Chapel (Skibo 39)
&
University Oratory of the Holy Spirit Parish 
CMU's R.C. Chaplaincy * Fr. Bob English 
4040 Bigelow Blvd. Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213 
(412)681-3181
GOOD LUCK WITH FINAL EXAMS 
FROM UNIVERSITY FOOD SERVICE
When the late night munchies hit, don't hunt for changeTake a 
break with us.
The Kiltie Cafe will be open from 9pm-7am on:
MONDAY
TUESDAY
WEDNESDAY
THURSDAY
DECEMBER 19th 
DECEMBER 20th 
DECEMBER 21st 
DECEMBER 22nd
Coffee, tea, and other beverages are free to contract holders. 
Snack foods will be sold.

---------------------------------------------------

DECEMBER 13. 1977/ ISSUE 19: FOLIO FEATURE F

---------------------------------------------------

Try Them
Behind the sedate knockered door of 3C live 
the Us-Us-Us (read "Try Us") Girls, Diane "Po" 
Poche, Cynthia Lubon, and Kellie Given. The 
three freshmen, in art, chem-E and chem-E, 
respectively, live in a room with red lights, brass 
fixtures, a loft, and a brilliant hot pink banner in 
their window. Po explains, "It all started when 
we couldn't get in the door 'cause of all the 
sorority invitations. We're 'dissidents,' and it all 
started as a jag. It was Kellie's idea. My mom 
donated the towelsthey've even got a 'p' em
broidered in them! We don't want to go ape-shit
from studying. We don't want to pent up all thal 
tension. The rest of the floor is nice, but they're 
upperclassmen, and don't really show it. So we 
compensate in rowdiness." Apparently a lot ol 
people have noticed the banner; all you have to 
do is look up at the Tri-delts, and the message 
becomes clear. "We're really proud of the fact 
that we've got several pledges, and have branched 
out into the Try-Us-Too'sthe EZ chapter. 
Ohand if there's anything else you need to 
know, you can make it up," Po adds. We have 
just one questionhave they been tried yet? 
We won't even speculate on that one___________
<...
A student on campus (his name cannot be re
vealed but FOLIO is in contact with him) can get 
anyone a fake CMU I.D. for 50 cents. This stu
dent, as part of his work/study job one year, re
moved a whole stack of blank I.D. cards from his 
assigned station at enrollment. The cards can be 
filled in with a photo in the appropriate spot 
(photos can be taken at Campus Printing). After 
it is laminated, the student has a new I.D. The 
only problem is that the I.D. will not be vali
dated. But it will most probably still be accepted 
when presented at the closest bar. The picture 
above shows all of the fake I.D.'s that this student 
has already created for his friends. The blank I.D. 
forms are in the center of the photo.
The pool is open to all students with a valid 
CMU I.D.
Campus mail is picked up every weekday morn
ing. It is delivered every weekday afternoon. No 
other comments.
page 10T A R T ANDecem ber 13, 1977
TARTAN FOLIO
DECEMBER 13,1977/ ISSUE 19 FOLIO FOTO FEATURES
EDITOR JEFFREY ZASLOW 
ASSISTANT EDITOR KAREN ANN i
AR T DIRECTOR SCOTT POLLACK 
MANAGERIAL ASSISTANT MORY biiLNNt.P 
dowmet ;Cr,!CTANT KAfl M JOY RAVI IS 
PHO"mr,RAPHY EDITOR V.R.V. RAMANAN 
PHOTOGRAPHS by TARTAN PHOTOGRAPHY STAFF 
All articles written by FOLIO executive staff
Cover design of Barbra Streisand on James Taylor by
SCOTT POLLACK_____________________._________
President Cyert has recently returned from the 
middle east and it is quite possible that he'll be on 
the road again. FOLIO thinks that our President 
might enjoy India. Bon Voyage Mr. President.

---------------------------------------------------

December 13, 1977-TARTAN-page 11
*
Yogurt Lid Man
Chris Moriondo, a Junior electrical engineering 
major, collects Dannon yogurt lids. He's been 
collecting them for two years, and in his words, 
"I'm never going to stop. I'll keep going until 
the cows stop giving milk and Dannon stops 
making yogurt.
"I started collecting about two years ago.
I had planned to someday give it to a friend, but 
he got thrown out of school before I could give 
it to him. So I just continued collecting."
Moriondo collected many of his lids because a 
friend of his worked in Skibo and would get to 
the lids before they got to the trashcan. "Al
though I've eaten a fair amount of the yogurts, 
? alot of the lids came from last year's all-school 
consumption."
He hasn't told Dannon yet about his collection, 
but says, "When I hit 10,000 I probably will." 
He also has no plans to enter his achievement in 
the Guinness Book of World Records.
How many yogurt lids does he have?
-"At last count, I think it was 5,303, but more 
come in every day." Moriondo told FOLIO.
He also asked student and faculty yogurt 
eaters from around campus to send him their 
lids via campus mail. "Just write Pi Lambda 
Phi (or PLP) on the back of your lids, and drop 
them in any campus mailbox. They'll get to me." 
Mr. Yorgurt-Lid said.
He recently broke his collection down into 
flavors, and came up with this total; Strawberry 
814, Cherry744, Red Raspberry683, Blue
berry651, Boysenberry473, Vanilla328, 
Lemon326, Dutch Apple287, Apricot263, 
Peach255, Plain232, Pineapple-Orange123, 
Coffee75, Banana45, Prune Whip-0.
By the way, his favorite flavor is cherry.
"(click!)...negie-Mellon." Anyone who has ever 
tried to call someone on campus, especially 
since Centrex, has heard that familiar greeting. 
It's one of the two CMU operators, m the Tele
phone Office at PH10, answering another of the 
myriad calls which come in each day. Unfortun
ately, when we went to interview them, the 
switchboard was lighting up like the proverbial 
Christmas tree, so we're still on hold.
This picture is of the SAE lions by candle 
light. Actually, the lions were set on fire by an 
unidentified enemy of the Sigma Alpha Epsilons. 
The brothers there are proud of the lions, and it 
wouldn't surprise FOLIO if the pyromaniacs who 
set the fires didn't regret it afterwards.
PINBALL
Zing! Ding. Ling. Wing. Zing. Sting!!!
"Yep. We hear it most of the time. When we're 
studying, sleeping. It's the worst when we're in 
the bathroom." That's the opinion of Colleen 
Prince, Sharon Maffett, and Susie Benn. These 
three girls have the distinct pleasure of living on 
the other side of the wall from the pinball mach
ines. From their room in 1A2, Morewood, they 
can never escape the sound of flipper against ball. 
Man versus machine. Hand slapping against metal. 
Ball banging against bell. Bell ringing upon glass.
For Colleeen, Sharon and Susie, the worst 
might be yet to come. Believe it or not, one of 
the fraternities (FOLIO cannot reveal the name) 
is planning to have a 48-hour marathon on one 
of the pinball machines. FOLIO urges all pinballers to please have a little sympathy for these 
three mnocent girls. Get your kicks in some other 
way. Go play with the copying machine in the 
Morewood lobby.
The best kept secrets on campus are buggy sec
rets. Many fraternities erect tents during freerolls 
so that other fraternities won't see what they're 
doing with their buggy.
Pi Kappa Alpha, last year's supreme winners, 
allowed FOLIO to <: spr.cd' mctu e iooking 
inside their buggy. So nere it is; the inside of the 
best buggy on campus.
FOLIO in no way desired to divulge any PIKA 
buggy secrets by printing this picture, and doubts 
that any other frat can learn anything substantial 
from examination of this photo. However, 
FOLIO does realize that a first-place buggy tro
phy does not come from the buggy itself. A push 
team is also necessary. So, in a future issue, stay 
tuned for INSIDE A PIKA PUSH TEAM. It 
should prove to be a better photograph.
LYNN MARSTILLER, senior, Creative Writing 
Major, AMS Minor and Delta Gamma member is 
the student manager of Entropy. In her eyes 
"...life's a messcause its the end of the semester 
(?). Death is inevitable. Between life and death 
[she thinks] ZAP!"
Leaving philosophy to those who romp in crea
tive meditation and play in sincere thought, Lynn 
has some definite opinions about practical mat
ters, namely, the store.
"I'm here to make money. I do wish however, 
to expand, to develop the store. This is not possibie as long as it is in the building "
The top oi i>cence Ha1* o < ny aay

---------------------------------------------------

page 12TARTANDecember 13, 1977
This is a shot never seen by the girls of Morewood; a pigeon's-eye view of the gargoyles on top of 
the building. FOLIO has to ask, "Why do the faces have such horror-stricken expressions carved 
into them?"
Vulcan's forge in ancient mythology must be 
fairly well represented by the glass ovens in 
Doherty Hall's B-level. They run 24 hours a day, 
except in the dead of fuel-crisises, as they take 
two days to heat up, and belch blue and magenta 
and orange flames into an already toasty-warm 
atmosphere. A sign on the studio door dictates 
"no absences unless exported by disease control." 
There are only 3 advanced glass blowers right 
now, who put their lives on the line to create 
their lucid pieces; the heat from the molten 
glass can sear a person's lungs if inhaled. Floyd 
Carp is studying glass for a standard 9 units. 
JoAnn Garcia is taking it for 24. She says, "I'm 
more interested in the sculptural aspect of my 
works than in their function.", and yet turns 
out fragile-looking glass flowerbaskets which 
are as practical as they are beautiful. Robert 
Martins, 18 units, is simply, "proud to be a 
galssblower. This art is appreciated very much by 
those who know about it. It's a very physical 
art, and the things you can do with it are amaz
ing." Their work can be seen not only in CFA 
but in their studio, fondly named, "The Crystal 
Cave."
The New Holiday Bar Bar Bar is right down 
Forbes and if you're interested in a new scene 
give it a try. Don't let the brick barrier stop you. 
Once you get inside, it's pretty open, and airy, 
and fun and the drinks are good, and the com
pany is better, and overall, it's just gay-, gay, gay.
Right next to the Holiday bar, the Hare 
Krishna s live and flourish. As this picture aptly 
shows, Hare Krishnas do drink milk, (see bottom 
right hand corner of photo).
CMU does not have the highest suicide rate. 
There isn't a school in the nation that has the 
highest suicide rate, because those rates aren't 
computed. No administration or student senate 
ever figures out suicides. It's just not couth. How
ever, there is one area where CMU comes in first 
in the Nation every year. Doorway sleeping. As 
pictured above, more students sleep in doorways 
here at CMU then at any other institution in 
America. FOLIO has the facts.
This is Gladys Schmitt, a talented poet who 
published many books that sold millions of co
pies. This is a rare photograph from the TARTAN 
archives, taken of Mrs. Schmitt before she died. 
She was a moving force in the early days of 
the Creative Writing program at CMU, but 
FOLIO doesn't want to give her whole life story 
and extraordinary achievements away. There are 
dozens of Creative Writing majors around who
know oodles about Gladys Schmitt. So talk to a 
Creative Writing Major sometime, and find out 
what Gladys Schmitt did for America, Carnegie 
Mellon, her husband and her analyst. FOLIO is 
sure that there isn't an English major on campus 
who wouldn't be glad to spread the news.

---------------------------------------------------

December 13, 1977TARTANpage 13
Two students doing a variation of the bicycle exercise; a bicycle built for two.
Believe it or not, these two are CMU students, 
caught by TARTAN photographers recently while 
waving at clouds down on Tech field. FOLIO 
wasn't sure at press time whether the clouds 
waved back.
Buggy drivers aren't the sexiest guys on cam
pus, as some claim, but they do have the most to 
say. Here a buggy driver is wishing his parents a 
happy anniversary, and i saying hello to the 
whole gang at home.
Poor Mr. Hamerschlag, to have gone through 
life with superstitious engineering undergrads 
rubbing his nose! In the foyer of Baker Hall 
is a bronze plaque on a marble base, bearing a 
bas-relief sculpture of a stern and dignified 
gentleman. Beneath the portrait is the inscrip
tion, "Arthur Anton Hamerschlag/First president 
of/Carnegie Institute of Technology/1903-1922." 
The metal is brown and tarnished, except for the 
students who still believe in the old tradition 
(hopefully no older that 1922) that a swipe 
of Mr. H's nose before an exam will bring the 
student good luck. Rub his nose for good luck 
sometime. If he sneezes, you'll do well on the 
final. If he does nothing, you can forget next 
semester, because you won't be back. (FOLIO has 
just made up this last tradition... we'll see how it 
catches on).
FOLIO has scanned the shelves of the book
store and has come up with the most expensive 
book and the least expensive book. Before we 
tell you which is which, take a look at this pic
ture and take a guess. Go ahead, take a stab at 
it.
If you guessed that the Random House Ency
clopedia is the most expensive, you're right. 
It's $69.95 Tiagine having to shell that out for 
a book. It could happen next semester. Consid
ering that many engineers here know little else 
except formulas and curves, they may be re
quired to buy this book to catch up on all they've 
missed in life. The 2,856 pages will prove useful 
to anyone, and FOLIO recommends that if you 
have spare cash,take a splurge. The book on top 
of the Encyclopedia is Conversion Factors, and 
costs 20 cents. It should make a good Christmas 
present if it is given sincerely.__________________
Since George Wilag, the human fly, defied 
death and climbed the World Trade Center, a 
number of CMU students have taken to the sides 
of buildings in much the same way. Here, an un
identified student attempts to climb Porter Hall.
i ake a look underneath the fence sometime 
=rd you'll be able to feel the wood underneath 
the layers of paint.
The accomodations in Webster Hall aren't that 
bad, but the bathrooms aren't exactly modern. 
However, besides the walk to campus, there isn't 
much to complain about. And even on campus, 
who ever heard of cushioned toilet seats?

---------------------------------------------------

page 14TARTANDecember 13, 1977
Next semester, FOLIO plans to have a com
plete issue with the theme, "Bathroom Graffitti." 
This is just a preview of what's to come.
This woman, Mary B. Russell, is fairly wellknown, at least to the Morewood residents; 
she's "the lady in the basement" who doles out 
bookcases and refrigerators and mattresses. 
But in reality, every CMU custodian is under 
her direction; she's the "Housekeeping Super
visor." Ms. Russell has been at CMU just about 
a year and a half; before that she was Pitt's 
Executive Housekeeper for 12 years. She is 
surprised at how nice all the students here are, 
and is, equally surprised at the requests she 
receives. "This is, I guess, a sort of last resort, 
when the kids don't know where else to go for 
Iightbulbs or vacuums or vases or even rope to 
tie up their car luggage before trips home. When 
you're dealing with students, it's not boring." 
Fridays are her busiest days, possible because the 
residents like to clean up their rooms in prepara
tion for weekend celebrations. Her basement 
office doesn't bother her; she says she's been 
put there in almost every place she's worked. 
"They offered me an office upstairs here, but my 
people are down here." Some people tend to con
fuse the roles of Housekeeping and Maintenance, 
but she sums up the difference in the two. "If 
you can clean it, it's mine, and if you can fix 
it,it's theirs." Finally, does the idea of cleaning 
an those rooms ever get to her? "No. If you can 
keep house at home, you can keep house any
where."
Right before finals, keep an eye on the com
puter-centered people. You know, the ones who 
look like they ought to be the prime example of 
nerdness and stereotypical blandness. Well, don't 
be surprised if those people get creative under 
pressure. It has happened, as this picture proves, 
and it can happen again. Fine Arts students aren't 
the only ones on this campus who can appreciate 
the beauty of design, artistry, and architecture.
Carnegie Tech was designed as a ship, with each 
of the original University buildings labeled as a 
part of a ship. This is the truth. And to prove that 
it's the truth, someday take a look behind Hammerschlag Hall. There's a real honest to goodness 
ships bow down there. The only question is, is the 
thing waterproof?
In the Penthouse of the Hunt Library is the Hunt 
Botanical Library or, more correctly, the Hunt In
stitute of Botanical Documentation. Dr. Robert 
W. Kiger, the Acting Director since September 1, 
explained some of the history and value of the 
Library. It was founded in 1960 by Roy A. Hunt, 
the Chairman of the Board at Alcoa. His wife, 
Margaret Hunt, was an avid collector and traveler, 
and had amassed a spectacular collection of works 
on numerous aspects of agriculture, horticulture, 
and botany, as well as beautiful books which she 
herself had bound. She specialized in collecting 
herbals and incannabula published before 1500, 
as well as magnificent engravings, from the 
"Golden Age of Illustration" (the 17th and 18th 
centuries), and also exemplars about writers, such 
as papers, letters, portraits and autographs of 
early botanists. In later years, Mr. Hunt, who was 
always an indulgent husband, was faced with the 
realization that there was no place to house his 
wife's extensive collection when they died. The 
Hunts received staggering offers from a number of 
places, but being loyal Pittsburghers, decided that 
the collection would remain here. Dr. George 
Lawrence of Cornell was appointed the first dir
ector, and the library gained a wide reputation in 
its first 10 years.
In addition to housing the collections, the 
HIBD is also actively involved in art exhibits, bo
tanical displays, publishing, researching, and bib
liography. Its archives are extensive. Dr. Kiger 
says, "There is no one else in the world who fills 
this fairly circumscribed niche." The Library is 
used mostly by Fine Arts students and Architects, 
as well as Pitt students, but Dr. Kiger emphasizes 
that all students are welcome to discover the fac
ility, emphasizing that it is not, however, a lounge 
area. Students are even eligible for a 20% discount 
on the publications and prints put out by the In
stitute. If for no other reason, it is well worth the 
trip to see the current 4th International Exhibi
tion of Botanical Art and Illustration, which fea
tures over a hundred artists and runs through the 
spring.
these three people are notCMU ALUMNI
Guy Lombardo (recently became history) 
never attended the Music Education Program at 
CMU. - * ...................
Barbra Streisand (see FOLIO cover) was not a 
CMU drama student in 1958.
George Frederick Handel, composer of the 
"Messiah," was never a Piano major at CMU.
U

---------------------------------------------------

December 13, 1977TARTANpage 15
j \Traveling underneath CMU in the steam tun
nels is nov/v an offense that could end up in expulsior from the University. However, there are 
still some sleeping-baggers and their parents (see 
people in photo with their backs to the camera) 
who find the urge too irresistable. Come back, 
you SBs! That's not part of the tourf
There is a co-ed bathroom on the bottom floor 
of Doherty Hall. If nature calls, that's as good a 
place as any; it's probably better. But FOLIO 
doesn't recommend wholesale mating-season in 
the coed bathroom. Discretion should be used at all 
timfiS.__________________________________________
* m
I f KM* - # r
*fjv * * %
Students should always lock up their bicycles 
when going to class. Bike theft is fairly common 
on most college campuses (except Chatham, 
where most of the girls own cars), and it is re
commended that if you're not going to lock up 
your bike, you should at least put a note on the 
^bike explaining your trust in society.
Flagstaff Hill is great for traying, but FOLIO 
doesn't recommend stealing trays from Skibo to 
do it. It just runs up the food service budget, and 
then there might not be enouy!. trays left to eat 
on. That means our meal contracts might go up. 
Don't do it. Don't steal trays from Skibo,the Grill 
or Morewood.
However, trays can be stolen from any of the 
following establishments; University of Pitts
burgh, Carlow College, Chatham College, Duquesne, or the coffee shop in Gimbles, down
town.
This picture was taken at a recent CMU foot
ball game, and FOLIO would like to clarify that 
the student in the undershirt is not a player. He's 
just some kid looking for an autograph from 
Bobby Kennedy, John Bielich, Gus Sunseri, Bob 
Hantz, Mark Demo, Mike Jochman, Rich Lachner 
or Gary Bonn. Since none of these players felt 
like giving an autograph, he ended up standing on 
the field for the rest of the game, crying. Come 
on guysi Just because you're PAC champs, 
doesn't mean you have to let it get to your head. 
Give the kid an autograph. (By the way, he's 
still waiting for one down here in the TARTAN 
office. Stop by and do the kid a favor).
TGIFke to heaiwants groups yo
If you know of a good local group or 
band you want to hear perform on 
campus call Stephanie at 578-4423 
or leave a note at the Skibo Information 
desk. Please give name of the group 
and if possible the name of a manager
to contact.
m
e Perfect ? Stocking Stuffer
FOR THE PERFECT FRIEND 
AT A PERFECT PRICE
All national name brands
-
$5.00 VALUE . . . only $1.29 each
Gil l'll * JS 1VUMi
IS THf r.MYS 'HfMliims" I (If ic SlimVi.-ks- NyQuil t islrnninl - ml U (.melt* lrr II C*rii -
campus y... 1I A f
r.
AVAILABLE
emu bcckttore________________________________________________________

---------------------------------------------------

ACTIVE STUDENTS 
DO IT BETWEEN CLASSES

<m uk v
klire<"OU R"Wi"rO vAU vYFS 
eIuNm N"GGrmmM WmmW E euC HTMT

---------------------------------------------------

ENTERTAINMENT
SPIELBERG'S CLOSE ENCOUNTERS
A movie review 
Film: Close Encounter of 
the Third Kind 
Director: Steven Spielberg 
Producer: Columbia Pictures
Uby Casey Childs
After about two hours of drivel, the 
heavens part, much like the Red Sea did in 
\ an earlier epic, and the mothership de\ scends onto the planet earth. It looked to 
f me a lot like a flying shopping mall deco
rated for Christmas. But no matter. The
. cameras cut back to the mesmerized faces
* of the earthlings. Never in their wildest 
j dreams did they expect anything of this 
{ magnitude to make contact with their 
< homeland.
1 Thus ends Close Encounters of the 
Third Kind, a new film by that master 
technician Steven Spielberg in which no
thing works quite the way it was intended 
to.
This was the Hollywood phenomenon 
that was going to out-Star War Star Wars, 
that was going to put Kubrick and his in
genious 2001 in its place. And what did 
we get? Vapid pap that any simpleton can 
make sense of. What is Spielberg getting 
at? Anything?
Ive never been much of a Science Fic
tion fanatic, but I dont think even the 
 A most ardent Sci-Fi freaks should let this 
one slip by them as being praiseworthy.
Spielberg has less success here than most 
directors who attempt to raise a genre film 
into the realm of art. Spielberg is no art
ist, hes a showman. He lacks the vision of 
an artist and artisits with vision, thank 
God, realized the limitations of Science 
Fiction filmaking a long time ago and no 
>>longer ^ek to practice it.
But it would seem that even these tal
ented technicians, (of which Spielberg is 
one of), would want to transcend the 
cliches of outer space and become more in
ventive with the genre, and not prodigious
ly spend money, (to the tune of 22 million 
dollars in this case), propagating the al
ready existing beliefs. Filmmakers have 
^never had any problems awing the masses. 
Cant they take this as a given and use it 
constructively as a tool for something more 
profound?
Spielberg is no hack when it comes to 
engineering a film. He proved his technical 
prowess with Jaws, a film where the sur
prises didnt come on schedule and as an 
audience member you lived in absolute 
terror, scared to death that that fish 
was going to vault right out of the water 
and into the audience. With Jaws, he felt 
at liberty to stick his audience in a pres
sure cooker and refused to let them out 
until the film was over. He attempts to 
apply the same techniques to this film with 
far fewer results.
It would serve no purpose to outline the 
details of the story; the extraneous plot 
v streaks by us faster than one of Spielbergs 
spaceships. The action is set right here on 
earth. Spaceships have been sighted, 
theyve appeared like the star of Bethlehem 
in the night to hundreds of different peo
ple the globe over. Theyve even sucked 
several of them up and taken them away. 
The true believe i'tm't topvnv.'W' 
of I Ik  i . xisiciKT. Nothin? now |ji
The aimy flatly denies the exi&ieiue 
ol UFOs, yet it turns out that the anny 
are the very people that have received 
messages from this orbiting candelabra 
and have built a landing site in Wyoming 
for it to make its close encounter of 
the third kind. (NOTE: For those of
you who havent been following the 
, blicity, an encountei of the first 
kind is a sighting of a UFO. an
encounter of the second kind is physical 
evidence, and an encounter of the third 
kind is contact. Clever, huh?)
The army, desperate to protect the 
Countrys national security, evacuate the 
area around this secret site by spreading 
the rumor that there has been a leakage 
of tear gas in the area. Everyone must 
leave immediately. But those chosen few 
who have actually seen the UFO have had 
the specifics of the location and the desire 
to be a part of the rendezvous implanted 
in their memory. They make their ways 
from all over the Country to be a part of 
this historic event knowing that theyll 
have to fight off the United States Army 
in the process.
Actors in Sci-Fi films have never been 
able to out-shine the special effects. All 
of the characters here are drained of their 
lifeblood, they dont affect us at all the 
way human beings are capable of doing. I 
understand films of this genre are no place 
for first-class characterizations, but could
nt a couple of them retain at least a grain 
of humanity? Everyone wanders in and 
out of the filmframe in a catatonic state, as 
if they were directed not to upstage the
As a director. Spielberg has no pride. 
P.T. Barnum had no pride either. It must 
be characteristic of successful showmen. 
Spielberg wrote the scripi too. so hes 
accountable all the way around for this 
fiasco.
He has his troubles with actors. His 
cast is spineless. They cant seem to rise 
above the mediocrity of the language, 
and they cant even begin to glimmer 
above the apecial effects.
Spielberg established himself as a 
maverick director with Jaws: he was able 
to toy with the filmframe in a way no 
other commercial drector could do or 
had the guts to try. But like a down 
and out burlesque comic, he is ready to 
stoop to any low for a laugh. The sad 
thing is that he gets them. Hes not above 
seeking out easy humor by cutting to a 
couple of old folks gnawing at Kentucky 
Fried Chicken as they wait for the space
ship.
His plotline, that used to be tight as 
a vacuum, rambles around here from coun
try to country until we lose sight of 
where we are and give up trying to figure
out. Several sequences seem to come 
out of another movie. He tries to fore
shadow events. No success. The film 
follows a documentary formatthe events 
are presented for our profferment in 
an order that claims to be logical. One 
moment were in Mexico, the next were 
in Indiana, and Wyoming, and India. 
No rhyme. Little reason.
The only times I even sensed a thrill 
from the audience was when we werent 
being bombarded by the special effects 
men, the same way that the most exciting 
parts of Jaws were the times when that 
giant fish wasnt even on the screen and we 
could only feel its presence. But there is 
no terror in Close Encounters. Fear is 
a dirty word. Like the Easter Show at 
Radio City Music Hall, theres not a hint 
of cynicism, not an inkling of wrongdoing.
Aside from the idiocy of the script, 22 
million dollars and a troop of the most 
talented cameramen in the world havent 
even turned out a very good looking movie. 
The beginning is rather stunning. You cant 
understand anything anyone is saying, but
continued on page 18
spaceship that the filmmaker is going to 
spring on you at the end.
Where is the element of surprise Spiel
berg seemed so masterful at handling in 
Jaws? Few people seem disturbed by the 
repercussions of spaceships flying through 
suburbia causing photogenic pandemon
ium. Jillian Guiler, played by Melinda 
Dillon, isnt phased in the least by the fact 
that her three-year-old sons toys assume 
a life of their own in the middle of the 
night. Didn't this woman suspect anything 
when the food drops out of her refrigerator 
and her sons record player begins to play 
Sesame Street favorites?
Richard Dreyfuss plays Roy Neary, an 
employee for the power company in Indi
ana. His wife is even less responsive to the 
situation than Ms. Dillon. Has she no cause 
for alarm when her husband goes out into 
the dead of night and returns several 
hours later from the dead of night with a 
charred face and an annihilated truck? 
Does she refuse to admit to the possibil
ities of UFOs for the good of the family? 
This is the inadequate excuse we are 
given. She certainly isnt having any 
great anxiety attacks when her husband 
feels compelled to build a replica of this 
mountain landing site, (thats been imbed
ded in his memory by our spacemen 
friends), out of mud and chicken wire 
in the middle of the familys living room. 
She just puts the kids into the stationwagon and drives out of the picture.
The most dynamic scenes in the story, 
iv far as human conflict is concerned. 
u\e been left out of the film. We only 
get the cute ones, those good for a cheap 
chuckle: the stereotypical nosey neighbor 
threatening Dreyfuss with her blow dryer: 
Dreyfuss molding his symbolic mountain 
out of shaving cream, out of a childs 
sandcastle. n of mashed potatoes at the 
Jinnei table And we as an audience 
Miiile on cue.
KLEIN INTERVIEW
By Barry Driks 
and Marla Felcher
The TARTAN found Robert Klein 
between shows, eating Chinese food 
with his piano accompanist. The fol
lowing conversation ensued:
KLEIN: Were eating. Do you want some? 
Well, you can't have any.
TARTAN: Sorry to interrupt your dinner. 
This is Marla and my name is Barry.
KLEIN: I remember you. Marla, from the 
audience. You were wearing a white shirt. 
(Points to her) Great laugher. Can you fit 
in a trunk? I could take you from city to 
city with me.
TARTAN: How did you get started? 
KLEIN: First of all I knew I could make 
my friends laugh. Then I realized I had the 
aptitude to make strangers laugh. My first 
professional jobs were doing improvs in 
N.Y.
TARTAN: How much of your show
tonight was improvisation?
KLEIN: Most of it was improvs, but of
course not all. That really wouldn't be fair 
to the audienceif 1 had come out with 
nothing prepared. I make a lot of my old 
material sound like I'm adopting it to the 
new moment. The Walking Dog Blues is 
old materialI just adapted it to Pittsburgh 
tonight.
TARTAN. Are there any particular cities 
you enjoy playing more than others? 
KLEIN: I do about 60 shows a year,
mostly in N.Y. I like doing gigs-l feel I 
am the master of my own destiny and I 
love to be irreverent and avant garde. A 
lot of people knock Pittsburgh, on the 
basis of a "counter cultural thing. They 
say places like San Francisco and Denver 
are more appealing, they have more snob
appeal. But Pittsburgh has it all over 
cities like Detroit and Cleveland.
TARTAN: What do you think it takes to 
be a good comedian?
KLEIN: Talent and intelligence. I write
every word I utter, and 1 have to know Im 
good. Making it in comedy takes intell
igence and is no different that say, being a 
civil engineer. Things like the Tonight 
iiow are also very important. 1 got my 
chance to play the Tonight Show and made 
the best of it. There are a lot of comedians 
that get their shot and blow it.. Then there 
are comedians that think that once theyve 
made it they can relax. I dont do that. 
TARTAN: Do you feel you have a fol
lowing?
KLEIN: Yes, intelligent and progressive
people that have a great sense of humor. 
TARTAN: Marla, are you getting all of
this down?
KLEIN: (Pointing to Driks) Whats the
matter? Something wrong with his hand? 
TARTAN: How do you feel about your 
success anu the money its brought you? 
KLEIN: I wasnt rich as a kid. But dont 
knock moneyits a great advantage and 
honestly earned because I am unique. 
TARTAN: What are your plans for the
future?
KLEIN: (Sarcastically) Id like to do a few 
more movies.
TARTAN: Thank you for the interview. 
KLEIN: Well, it was nice meeting you.
TARTAN: By the way. did you ever want 
to be a professional baseball player?
KLEIN: Yes, as a matter of fact I did.
TARTAN: 1 ask you this because here I 
am, 21 years old, and chances are I wont 
be playing major league baseball.
KLEIN: (Laughing) Yes-1 should have
put that in tonight's show!

---------------------------------------------------

page 18TARTAIMDecember 13, 1977
POSIN DANCE: TRUE VERSATILITY
by Knox Uguccioni
A dance review 
Company: Kathryn Posin 
Dance Company 
Producer: Pittsburgh Dance 
Council
BORING ENCOUNTERS
continued from page 17
the beautiful combination of yellows in 
the Mexican duststorm make for some 
attractive visual stimulation. But from 
there the camera wanders off onto Mac
Donald signs and Baskin & Robbins trucks 
and various other forms of pop art.
You have to wait until the last twenty 
minutes of the film for the real fireworks, 
for the real display of technical prowess 
all designed to bedazzle you into a state of 
ecstasy. This is where the film has its 
grandiose orgasm on the scale of a Wag
nerian opera. But no matter how big that 
damn spaceship is, and no matter how big 
the studio was they had to build to stick 
it in, it will never live up to our expecta
tion of how we perceive it.
It makes its landing. The camera cant 
cut around fast enough to pick-up all of 
the reactions. A hatch opens and out of 
the opening dawdle a group of stick 
figures with potato heads. We only get one 
longed for close-up of these little treasures. 
Surprise! It has two eyes, a nose and a 
mouth, just like us. It looks a lot like, 
Gumby from the Gumby and Pokmr
cartoons I watched as a child.
The Richard Dreyfuss Don Quixote 
character decides to take off with the 
spacemen at the end. Where are they 
going? Will they ever come back? Who 
are these other people who march around 
in matching red uniforms who are going 
with them? No one feels compelled to 
give us any answers.
And thats what we have. We leave the 
theatre whistling the special effects. 
Close Encounters lacks imagination, lacks 
inventiveness, lacks insight, lacks a script, 
lacks characters. The only things it doesnt 
lack are a countless number of lightbulbs, 
stentorian sound equipment and a panting 
public who are going to shell out an esti
mated 160 million dollars to see it160 
million that could go to the nurturing of 
something worthwhile.
I have no qualms about making enter
taining epics as long as they dont pretend 
to be anything more than that. But when 
will we stop building shrines to scenery? 
How many of these parades of special 
effects are we going to have to look at 
before we come to terms with the sense
lessness of it all?
It was like being underwaterbluegreen and shimmering. You could sense the 
motion of waves, of rhythmically rocking, 
floating seaweed. Slowly underwater crea
tures emerge and disappear as the waves 
alternately expose and hide them. The 
members of the Kathryn Posin Dance Com
pany were these fascinating waves and theii 
rhythmically moving wave forms created a 
glimpse of the power and mystery of the 
ocean.
The four women and three men in the 
company work closely together to create 
incredibly high levels of energy which flow 
from one dancer to another. Their dancing 
is very physical and they use each others 
bodies to dance with or against so they are 
constantly defining and redefining the rela
tionships between themselves. While the 
dancing may seem very acrobatic, it is 
nevertheless based on the strict ballet 
training which produces the precise body 
control and technical expertise necessary 
for Miss Posins choreography.
Waves was followed by Light Years: 
Four Plays for a Quarter, a modern ballet 
with music by John McLaughlin and the 
Mahavishnu orchestra. The dancing was a 
slick, electronic motion which portrayed 
the intensity and futility of our space-age 
lives. The lighting was extremely suppor
tive, creating an atmosphere reminiscent 
of the alluring, yet harsh, neon-white 
lighting of a pinball arcade. All of the 
dancers were excellent, particularly Glen 
Eddy who initiated the dance by playing a 
pinball machine which expanded to en
velop the dancers and draw them into its 
intricate machinery. Lance Westergard, a 
strong and expressive dancer, gave an un
natural reverence to the pinball, sometimes 
a real ball, sometimes expressed by quick 
bursts of intense energy.
Miss Posin uses her choreography skill
fully to create a multiplicity of images and
meanings through her dancers. Every move 
they make is literal, yet brimming with 
associated images, some obvious, others 
very subtle. Something as simple-looking 
as a step is morea progression, a regres
sion, the development of an idea and the 
seed of a dozen more ideas. The dances are 
fascinating experiences because new 
themes keep developing and interweaving 
and because the dancers are brilliant. They 
work hard to contribute and maintain high 
levels of energy and they literally thrive 
on their dancing.
Ghost Train, like Light Years, was 
a slice of life, but the combination of in
tense realism with slight exaggeration pro
duced a really bizarre atmosphere. The 
characters were those whom society gen
erally tries to ignore, the blind, hookers, 
the crippled, Hare Krisna and shoppingbag ladies. This motley crew is assembled 
by a blind man and is ceremoniously led 
to the subway and onto a train. The Hare 
Krisna girl hawks her incense, a lechei 
fondles a mousy, nondescript woman and 
a crippled man gives his clothes, piece by 
piece, to the shopping-bag lady who care
fully stores them away in one of her nu
merous bags. When he finally gives away 
all his clothes, the others on the subway 
watch as he moves away, having shed the 
very clothes which related them all. The 
cripple is seen as he is, a glorious and 
unique individual, not one of societys 
ghosts.
The final piece was Bach Pieces, a 
blend of classical and modem dance set to 
synthesized music by Bach. It was a lyrical 
dance, highly evocative of the grandness 
and richness of baroque music. Miss Posins
choreography skillfully commned the es
sence of classical and modern dance and 
captured the unique qualities of each dance 
form. The dancers were excellent and 
handled the dances with sensitivity and, 
grace.
The Kathryn Posin Dance Company is 
one of the few which are truly versatile and 
which strive for, and actually achieve, ex
cellence. The work they produce has a uni
versal appeal because it is a truly enjoyable 
experience.
THE -SILMARILLIOM is J.R.R. Tolkien's masterpiece, the crowning 
mythic vision of his lifetime. Tolkien's heroic fantasy of Middle-earth, 
which gave rise to THE HOBBIT and THE LORD OF THE RINGS, begins 
and ends in the mythology of creation and epic struggles of good 
against evil of THE SILMARILLION.emu bockstcre---------------------------------------------------

EVENTS
MUSC
The Carnegie-Mellon University Opera 
Theatre will present Monteverdis Lincoronazione di Poppea, December 15 
through December 17 at 8 PM in the 
Alumni Concert Hall of the universitys 
College of Fine Arts.
_ Tickets for Poppea are $3.50 for adults, 
$2.00 for students and can be obtained 
by calling the CMU box office, 578- 
2407. Box office hours are 10 AM to 5 PM 
Monday through Friday.
William Steinberg will conduct the Pitts
burgh Symphony in concerts to be per
formed in Heinz Hall on Friday, December 
16 at 8:30 PM, Saturday, December 17 at 
 PM, and Sunday, December 18 at 2:30 
rM. Pianist Alexis Weissenberg will be the 
guest artist for these programs to consist 
of Beethovens Overture to King Stephen," 
Chopin's Piano Concerto N. 1, and Tchai
kovskys Manfred Symphony.
Attendance at Pittsburgh Symphony 
concerts is by season subscription only. 
However, some tickets are occasionally 
turned back to the Heinz Hall box office 
Tbr resale. Information may be obtained 
by phoning 281-5000.
Blood, Sweat & Tears, featuring David 
Clayton-Thomas, will appear at the Holi
day House December 26-31. Show times 
are 8:30 and 11:00 PM.
The band has just released its new 
album, Brand New Day, for its new label, 
^YBC Records.
CINEMA
The Carnegie Institute sponsors several 
films a week in their building down in 
Oakland. Admission is always one dollar. 
Call the film section of Carnegie Institute 
|t 622-3212.
AB will be presenting Weekend, directed 
by Jean-Luc Godard. A film in which all 
of life becomes a weekend-a cataclysmic 
traffic jam. The film must be seen for its 
power, ambition, humor, and scenes of 
real astonishing beauty. The film will be 
screened on Thursday, December 15 at 
6, 8:15, and 10:30 in Doherty Hall. Ad
mission is .75 with an ID.
AB will be presenting Kubricks epic, 
Barry Lyndon on Friday, December 16 
at 6:30 and 10 in Doherty Hall. This is 
a costume film about a 19th century 
rags-to-riches rouge who gallivants through 
Europe as a spy, soldier, wife-beater, and 
gambler. Admission is one dollar with an 
ID.
SDC will be presenting The Magic Chris
tian starring Peter Sellers and Ringo Starr 
on Saturday, December 17 at 6, 8:30 
and 11 in Doherty Hall. Admission is free.
THEATRE
Bubbling Brown Sugar, the musical fan
tasia featuring the glamorous jazz age of 
Harlem in its heyday, which played before 
eight sold-out, intoxicated audiences in 
Heinz Hall two months ago, now returns 
in the same joyous, nostalgic, sparkling 
production to the same stagewith most 
of the same starsto play three more 
shows: Tuesday at 8, December 13, and at 
both 2 PM and 8 PM on Wednesday, 
December 14. Tickets for these three 
December performances are now on sale 
at Heinz Hall and area department stores, 
with mail-order information available by 
phoning 281-5000.
Pittsburgh Laboratory Theatre will present 
Friedman & Son by Mark Harris, Fridays 
through Sundays, December 2-18, at 8:30 
PM. The Pittsburgh Laboratory Theatre
"It's hard to imagine anyone who will not, 
in the end, turn on to 'The Turning Point'.'
 Richard Schickel. Time Magazine
"This film has it all...one of the year's big winners."
-Gene Shalit. NBC-TV
; -
TWENTIETH CENTURY-F0X Presents A HERBERT ROSS FILM 
ANNE BANCROFT SHIRLEY MacLAINE THE TURNING POINT" TOM SKERRITT
I---------------------------------Introducing-----------------------------------
MIKHAIL BARYSHNIKOV and LESLIE BROWNECo-Starring I----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
MARTHA SCOn  MARSHALL THOMPSON CM Uexples ightg S UcghazUe tUnngx xpgUxhg
Executive Producer Written by Produced by
NORA KAYE ARTHUR LAURENTS HERBERT ROSS and ARTHUR LAURENTS 
Directed by HERBERT ROSS PRINTS BY DE LUXE * NOW IN PAPERBACK FROM SIGNET 
MUSIC FROM THE MOTION PICTURE ON 20TH CENTURY RECORDS AND TAPES
| PG fpwinAi gudmci surasmnQ-] w 1-. ycyjjj o-'--
Chatham Theatre
is located at 3300 Fifth Avenue (corner of 
Fifth and Craft Avenues), Oakland. Seat
ing is limited, and advance reservations 
should be made by calling 621-2876.
The Community College of Allegheny 
County South Campus is preparing its 
production of Jesus Christ Superstar 
as a dinner theatre to be presented on 
December 8, 9, 10, 15, 16, and 17th with 
curtain at 8. Advance reservations are 
needed for the buffet dinner which is being 
served at 6:30. Reservations can be made 
by calling 469-1100 extensions 39(5 or~355; 
prices are $8.50 including dinner and $5.00 
for show only. Group rates are available.
MISC.
ART
The Hewlett Gallery in the College of 
Fine Arts building is showing an exhibition 
of recent works by the students from the 
CMU Department of Architecture. It will 
run until December 16. The Gallery is 
open 11 to 4 PM, Monday through Friday.
WRCT
WRCT has extended their programming 
hours from 3 PM to 3 AM. They have also 
begun to broadcast a talk show, Mr. Pea
body, which is aired on Tuesdays from
11 PM until 12 PM. Tune in.
CHRISTMAS 
SALE
by Andrea Smith
In keeping with the holiday spirit, 
the Gallery will sponsor a special twoweek Christmas Sale, beginning today. 
December 13th. and lasting through the 
23rd. The sale, which is in lieu of any 
regular exhibits during the two weeks, 
will provide artists with a chance to sell 
their work, as well as give art lovers a 
chance to do some unhassled last minute 
Christmas shopping.
Since anyone wishing to sell work 
has been invited to participate in the sale, 
there should be a variety of work to choose 
from-weavings. ceramics, prints, drawings, 
photographs, and paintings. Certainly, 
these should make for an abundance of 
interesting and unique gift possibilities. 
Unlike other exhibits, where customers
The Arts and Crafts Center of Pittsburgh is 
opening its 23rd annual Christmas Sale 
on November 20 from 10 AM until 9 PM. 
Though the Sale is closed every Monday 
and on Thanksgiving Day, it is open from 
10 AM until 6 PM Tuesday through Sun
day until December 23. The Arts and 
Crafts Center is located at the corner of 
Fifth and Shady Avenue in Shady side.
Carnegie Institute, Hall of Architecture, 
will be the setting for an unusual program 
of Christmas songs and carols, performed 
by the Pittsburgh Oratorio Society, on 
Saturday, December 17, 1977, at 4:00 PM. 
The concert is free and open to the public.
The concert will be repeated on Sunday, 
December 18, at 4:00 PM in historic 
Calvary Episcopal Church, Shadyside.
World-renowned for his comic, touching, 
theatrical displays of the art of mime, 
Marcel Marceau arrives in Heinz Hall for 
one performance, Sunday, January 22, 
featuring his classic characterization of 
"Bip, Marceaus multi-faceted alter ego. 
Early ordering of tickets is advised, for 
Marcel Marceau has become one of Heinz 
Halls most beloved stage personalities.
have had to wait until the end of the show 
to pick up purchased work, anything 
bought at the Christmas Sale may be 
taken at the time of purchase. Artists 
wishing to replenish their supply of works 
as pieces are sold, may do so throughout 
the two weeks.
Also, a reminder for those who may 
have work which they wish to sell, but 
have not yet entered it in the sale, it is 
not too late. Work can be brought in 
throughout the salesimply contact Janice 
Mauriello, Gallery Director, or leave a 
note at either the Gallery or the mailbox 
at the Skibo Information Desk.
The Gallery has also received a new 
supply of T-shirts, in an assortment of 
Christmas colors, which will be on sale, 
as usual, throughout the two weeks.
Though not a regular exhibit, the 
Christmas Sale will open at 7:00 tonight 
in the customary fashion. Holiday refresh
ments will be served, and as a special 
treat, to add to the holiday spirit, Baroque 
Music will be provided by Phoebe Low. 
So begin your holiday celebrating and 
shopping at the Gallery tonight.
Special note: The first show of the new 
year will open directly after the vacation, 
on January 10th, and will last through 
the 15th. On display will be paintings, 
weavings and drawings by Joel Abramson 
Alice Thiel, and Anne Narva.
Andrea Smith is a member of the 
Forbes Street Gallerv.BOTANICAL ART
A major exhibition of botanical art and 
illustration opened to the public on No
vember 7 at Carnegie-Mellons Hunt Insti
tute for Botanical Documentation.
The 4th International Exhibition of 
Botanical Art and Illustration, the only 
international art show still held in Pitts
burgh. will feature over 300 works on bo
tanical subjects. More than a dozen differ
ent media, ranging from watercolors and 
etchings to serigraphs and lithographs, will 
be represented in the show, reflecting the 
work of 133 artists from over 20 countries. 
Last held in 1972, the Hunt International 
serves as a showcase for botanical artists 
and illustrators from around the world.
Many of the works on display were orig
inally reproduced in scientific publications, 
horticultural journals, and books on flow
ers and plants. Other works are formal
plant portraits. All works are original 
paintings or drawings, or limited edition 
graphic prints.
The exhibition will be on display in the 
penthouse of CMUs Hunt Library through 
March 31, 1978. Exhibit hours are Monday 
through Friday. 9 AM until 5 PM; admis
sion is free. An illustrated catalogue will be 
available for sale.
In connection with the International 
Exhibition, there will be an illustrated lec
ture on the flora of South Africa by Mrs. 
Esme F. F. Hennessy on Monday, Novem
ber 7, at 8 PM. Mrs. Hennessy is Senior 
Lecturer in the Department of Botany, 
University of Durban-Westville, Natal, 
South Africa, and is also a botanical illus
trator who works in watercolor; 4 of her 
paintings will be on display in the Interna
tional Exhibition.

---------------------------------------------------

COMING DECEMBER 23rd
KINGS COURT THEATRE MONROE THEATRE CINEMA WORLD THEATRE 
DENNIS THEATRE NORTH HILLS THEATRE CHESWICK THEATRE

---------------------------------------------------

i 1December 13, 1977TARTANpage 21
ashington INSIDE WASHINGTON inside washi
by Frederic Siegel
Hope and promise. A new spirit. A 
return to prosperity for all. The previous
* words were heard often last January in 
wake of the Presidential Inauguration of 
frames Earl Carter. A democrat, I believed 
like many others that Jimmy Carter 
possessed the ability to lead this nation 
into a new age of world peace and domes
tic prosperity.
I was wrong, as were many others
and I have been gravely disappointed 
with President Carter. A year has passed 
and the Carter Presidency is almost in a 
state of shambles. Unemployment is 
rising and so is inflation. The bureaucracy 
has almost doubled in size instead of 
getting smaller as President Carter once 
promised. Despite the few women who 
serve around Carter little has been ac
complished for the rights of women. 
The master energy program of the Pres
ident has met with stiff opposition and a 
long and cold winter seems inevitable. 
President Carter has embarrased this 
nation too often in the last year. The Bert 
Lance fiasco, contradicting Middle Eastern 
statements, and failures in Congress have 
done little to enhance the Carter pres
idency.
This January I will have the oppor
tunity of seeing first hand what exactly 
is going on inside the nations capital.
Under the auspicies of the Washington 
Semester Program I will serve as Congres
sional Aid to Congressman Bruce Caputo 
of New York. As Junior Congressman on 
the infamous House Ethics Committee, 
Caputo has been instrumental in uncover
ing the Korean scandals. My responsibil
ities will include legislative research, 
the drafting of Congressional legislation 
and lobbying, in addition to being a 
general assistant to Congressman Caputo. 
The purpose of the Washington Semester 
Program is to educate future legislators 
with a working understanding of our 
American government in action.
In the coming months I will continue 
this column with the purpose of illus
trating my insight, thoughts, and obser
vations relating to Washington and our 
government. As I leave CMU and enter 
the city of Watergate, Elizabeth Ray, and 
Jimmy, I hope to maintain an open mind. 
I leave for Washington with the intention 
of seeing, hearing, and learning.
Like to write?
Why not 
write 
for the
TARTAN?
Start out the
second semester
as a TARTAN 
news reporter
Our first news
staff meeting
will be :
January 12, 1978
Room 50, Ski bo
7:30 FM.
Call home
Its great to be away from home. Then again, sometimes you just want to go 
back... if only for a few minutes. 
Call home tonight...Long Distance. Because if you dial the call yourself, 
station-to-station, between 5 and 11 P.M., youll be able to talk for ten minutes 
for $2.57 (plus tax) or less to anywhere in the continental U.S. except Alaska!
Dial direct rates do not apply to person to person, coin, hotel guest, credit card, collect calls, or to calls charged to another number 
Dial direct rates apply on calls placed with an operator where direct dialing facilities are not available
Long Distance. What else is so nice for the price?
Bell of Pennsylvania

---------------------------------------------------

page 22TARTANDecember 13, 1977
Davis comments on Rhodesians
continued from page 7
must bear part of this blame our
selves since some of the stories 
issued by our own public rela
tions people were not always fully 
accurate.
Second, there is the fact that 
Radio Maputo in Mozambique 
issued broadcasts which con
demned our project. Radio Mapu
to is a voice of the Mugabe fac
tion which is conducting the ter
rorist war in Rhodesia. The stu
dents apparently believed that 
names were used in these broad
casts and this became a reason to 
be fearful. I have been able to ob
tain transcripts of some of these 
broadcasts and these confirm that 
that the Rhodesian project was 
condemned but I have been 
unable to find an instance in 
which any persons name was 
utilitized in a broadcast.
Finally, we must note that ex
ternal influences have played a 
role. Clearly, there is no secret to 
the fact that student and faculty 
groups at the University of Pitts
burgh have been active in attemp
ting to condemn our project. 
There is no need for me to labor 
over this point, but it should be 
obvious that many people in our 
society desire to believe that the 
world is governed by conspiracy. 
Hence, the fact that we were rais
ing money from the private sec
torour own corporations and 
foundations-appeared to them as 
a confirmation of a conspiracy. 
Of course, the truth of the matter 
is that private sources are the only 
sources which are available for
such a project since our govern
ment has a policy against provid
ing funds to support any activity 
which might either benefit or 
harm the people in Rhodesia. 
Further, our University is a 
private university and relies upon 
the generosity of citizens, corpo
rations, and foundations as a 
means of our support. In seeking 
such support for this or any other 
project, we always make clear the 
fact that the content of all educa
tional programs must ultimately 
rest in the hands of the faculty. 
We could never allow insidious 
influences to infringe our inte
grity. Nevertheless, the simpleminded believers in conspiracy 
charge that we are the puppets of 
vested interests. Nothing could be 
further from the truth.
At this point, I think that we 
must realize and expect that these 
external groups will continue to 
attempt to disrupt our operations 
and use us as a tool for their 
own propaganda. It may be that 
we have become a target. We may 
be the best cause that the AntiImperialist Student Union can 
find, and. if so. they may con
tinue in their efforts to condemn 
our Rhodesian project by holding
rallies, posting posters on our 
campus and in our community, 
and otherwise seeking to portray 
us as an evil and sinister force.
For our part, I believe that we 
must continue to stand by our 
principles. We offer nothing more 
nor less than an excellent educa
tional program. We must remem
ber that we still have sixteen Rho
desian students enrolled in our 
educational program and that 
these students, who have been 
and are continuing their educa
tional effort, must be our primary 
responsibility. Wc have dealt
with the eight with as much 
compassion and understanding as 
our principles have allowed. Be
ginning with their absence from 
classes in early November', we 
have asked, encouraged, and even 
begged them to return to classes 
and to continue their participa
tion in the educational program. 
We pleaded with them to continue 
because non-participation inevi
tably leads to failure and an 
academic record which requires 
expulsion in order to maintain 
the integrity of our program for 
those students who remain in it. 
Since the eight refused at every 
point to return to the program, 
we offered the option of with
drawal without penalty and such 
help as we could afford to aid 
them in finding other educational 
opportunities here in the United 
States. They refused these offers 
also.
We have now come to the 
point where their non-participa
tion has made it impossible for 
them to have any hope of achiev
ing a satisfactory academic stand
ing. Hence, we have come to a 
point where there is no alternative 
to expulsion. They have been in
formed of this decision. They left 
us with no other alternative.
The eight students have
argued that we have legal and 
moral obligations to them since 
we entered into an agreement 
to provide an education. I think
that the main point here is that 
there are two sides to an agree
ment. They relieved us of re
sponsibilities when they chose to 
cease participation in our edu
cational program. In essence, 
they did not keep their part of 
the bargain.
What will happen to these 
ex-students? The answer is not 
at all clear to me. Since they are 
no longer students, they must 
vacate the premises and we have 
given them until the end of the 
semester to do so despite our 
usual practice of allowing only a 
short period of time for such 
action. I am also legally obli
gated to inform Immigration that 
they are no longer students. I 
should point out, however, that I 
do not believe that this action on 
my part will lead to deportation. 
Our government has a special 
policy in regard to southern 
Africa and I think that these ex
students will find it easy to re
main in our country as illegal 
aliens if they wish to do so. 
Further, if they are admitted to 
any educational program their 
student visa status will be re
established.
What do we do now? Cer
tainly we are willing to provide 
any help that is humanly pos
sible to aid them in finding other 
alternatives which are acceptable 
to them. While we cannot and 
will not provide CMU funds 
for any support beyond this point 
in time, we have offered to help 
them in a search for new support.
We are willing to work to help 
them in their attempt to obtain 
support from whatever sources!^ 
might be acceptable to them. Our 
heart goes out to them. However, 
we must always remember that 
our primary allegiance must re
main with our own educational 
programs and the students who 
participate in them.
What remains ahead for our 
Rhodesian project? Let me con-) 
elude by attempting to look 
into what I must admit to be a 
rather hazy crystal ball.
I believe that we must dedicate 
ourselves to the completion of the 
Rhodesian project for the sixteen 
students who remain in it. While 
we are still short of funds, I be
lieve that we must continue our I 
search for support so that, at a
minimum, these sixteen students 
are able to attain their educational 
goals. I think that it is impos
sible to say what will happen be
yond the present year. It might 
be possible that we could contin
ue. I still believe that our origin
al aims and intentions were 1 
correct and just. Directly or in
directly we have received en
couragement from all of the 
nationalist factions in Rhodesia. 
At the present time I believe that 
those factions, without a single 
exception, would like to see this 
program continue. While I have 
never had any doubt about the 
rightness of our purpose, I am 
afraid that at the present time I 
am unable to forecast whether 
the means will be available for us 
to continue. I hope that we wil! 
be able to say more about these 
possibilities in the near future.
SIERRA CLUB TRAIL 
CALENDAR 1978
The outdoor life is celebrated in this 
newly expanded calendar 14 full color 
photographs depict areas ranging from 
the wilderness of America to the peaks 
of Pakistans Karakoram Range In 
troduction by Colin Fletcher Line 
illustrations and literature of the trail 
accompany each photograph 
Spiralbound at the top and hole 
punched for hanging Individually 
packed in a self shipping carton
Sierra (tub trail Calendar W7K
Wilderness 1978 Sierra Club 
Engagement Calendar
sr *
$4.95
SIERRA CLUB 
WILDERNESS 
CALENDAR 1978
The scope and texture of the natural 
beauty of North America's wilderness 
depicted in breath taking full color 
detail, month by month, by the coun 
try's outstanding nature photographers. 
Quotes drawn from the natural history 
and literature of America, significant 
holidays, phases of the moon, and 
generous space for daily notes are 
other features Spiralbound at the top 
and holepunched for hanging In 
dmdualty packedin a self shipping car 
ton
Witt-mrsfc ( WtmiM SrrCW)
$4.95
SIERRA CLUB 
ENGAGEMENT 
CALENDAR 1978
A week by week tribute to the natural 
glory of our continent featuring among 
its 59 full color photographs 
remarkable images of our last 
remaining wilderness: Alaska In
troduction by Peggy Wayburn 
Spiralbound at the side, individually 
packed in a self shipping carton.
$4.95
LITTLE CREATURES 
The 1978 Sierra Club Calendar 
and Almanac for Young People
This unique calendar explores the 
fascinating universe of small creatures, 
from microscopic protozoa and bac 
tena to small birds, fishes, reptiles and 
mammals-those which will fit into the 
arms of a ten year-old child. Taking as 
its theme the role the smallest 
creatures play in the life system, every 
page of the calendar mixes images, 
poetry, naturalists' descriptions, 
diagrams, cartoons, and photographs 
There is also a section of activities for 
children, a section ot migrations of 
small creatures, a section of natural 
processes which can be observed, and 
13 color photographs Spiralbound at 
the side and individually packed in a 
self shipping envelope
emu ec  k\l iv
identify 
yourself, 
with a haircut!
Every individual is unique. Special. One-of-a-kind. That's the 
way haircuts should be, too. Specially tailored to match you - - 
your face, your personality, your vision of yourself. Great "X 
customers always know they're getting the best 
hairstyling value for their money. That's 
because hairstyling is our only business. 
That's all we do! Great "X" ,.. mor 
than 50 salons across the country, 
ready to help you identify yourself
T-cjpccmionsjPRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
NO APPOINTMENTEVER
HAIRCUTS
(Wash-Cut-BlOK)COLORINGS PERMANENTS
10
.00237 ATWOOD STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA 15213 
687-3500
Mon. Tues. Wed. 10-7 
Thurs. Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 10-9
NO ftrrOMTNEITTS
25
.00

---------------------------------------------------

December 13, 1977TARTANpage 23
 Music Ed
continued from page 7
practice pianos were all located in 
one large room with only curtains 
dividing them off. A practice 
room is simply that: it is not 
meant to be a duplication of con
cert conditions. On the other 
^ hand, do the students of the 
music department believe that 
drama students performing in 
Kresge Theater should put up 
with brass players who decide to 
try out their fanfares in the main 
hall of Fine Arts during a play 
performance?
The anonymous writer claims 
^ that the practice organs sound like 
circus calliopes, and the organ stu
dents must make arrangements 
with the local churches in order to 
give recitals. The practice organs 
may not be the most majestic of 
instruments but they are altoget
her adequate--as practice instru
ments, and, again, a practice room 
is not supposed to be a concert
^ hall. And, far from having to
make arrangements with local 
churches, all organ students play 
their recitals at Calvary Episcopal 
Church in Shadyside, which is not 
only one of the most beautiful 
churches in the city, it also 
possesses one of the finest organs 
in the country. In my years as an
^ organ major, I considered it not
an inconvenience but a privilege 
to be able to play at Calvary.
The unsigned letter then gives 
as a requirement for the improve
ment of the Music department 
the hiring of private instructors 
with status as teachers and per
formers. This must have been ineluded in error, for I hope that no 
music major would ever make 
such an insult of the reputations 
of such faculty members as For
rest Standley, Arthur Kubey, 
Harry Franklin, Fritz Siegal and 
Eugene Phillips, who have had ca
reers as performers and teachers 
which can only be described as 
distinguished.
In fact, this last remark brings 
to a head the entire issue of facili
ties. It is true that there are state 
schools with multi-million dollar 
buildings housing elaborate prac
tice and concert rooms. But 
many of these same schools are 
staffed by teachers who are sim
ply musicians who could not 
achieve professional careers. Fre
quently one will see a single facul
ty member listed as professor of 
woodwinds and another as pro
fessor of brass. It is the faculty 
that makes a school, not the size, 
variety or price tag of its facili
ties. CMU may not have the facil
ities of other schools, but its 
faculty is top-flight. It is unfor
tunate to read the opposite, mis
taken opinion in the TARTAN.
The unnamed music student 
then makes a curious socio-politi
cal observation, saying that in
stead of training teachers, the 
music department will be turn
ing out orchestral players who 
cater to the middle and upper 
class elite of society. Like it or 
not, it is the middle and uppervclass elite which has supported all 
of the fine arts since about the 
time of the Egyptian pharoahs. 
The Russian Revolution didnt 
change that basic fact, and neither 
will the retention of the music 
education option at CMU.
In the same issue of the 
TARTAN was a position paper 
from the music departments Stu
dent Advisory Committee. This 
dealt largely with the wholly 
separate issue of the Kiltie Band 
and the fate of those students 
now enrolled in music education. 
This latter question is, of course, 
the most pertinent of all in the 
current situation, and we can only 
assume that the administration 
will, as it says it will, keep the op
tion at its present level until it has 
been properly phased out--and no 
one has ever said that the option 
will be discontinued tomorrow or 
any time in the near future until 
all students currently enrolled 
can complete their course re
quirements. The SAC, however, 
presents this miraculous sentence, 
which must be read several times 
to be appreciated: The Univers
ity must release, in an affirmative 
manner, positive information 
specifically stating that the music 
education program is of high 
quality, and the decision to phase 
it out was based on a department
al change of focus. It is unfortu
nate that anyone connected with 
a university should write such 
twisted English, and especially un
fortunate that this should come 
from people who pride themselves 
on being educators. How does 
one release something in an af
firmative manner? Or, as it says 
elsewhere in the SAC letter, how 
does one determine ramifications?
Apart from the syntax, what is 
the SAC really asking for: a letter 
from President Cyert saying that, 
yes, we do have a good music pro
gram? Of course we do. And of 
course the decision was based on a
departmental change of focus. 
The music education faculty is 
well-liked and respected. No one 
is impugning the quality of the 
faculty or curriculum. Many stu
dents today may not realize it, 
but until fairly recently, CarnegieMellon University included the 
Margaret Morrison Carnegie Col
lege, a professional level home 
economics school primarily for 
women. The university phased it 
out a few years ago, not out of 
any malice or poor regard for its 
students, faculty, or goals, but 
simply as a result of changed pol
icies and priorities.
The music education option 
was for years under the direction 
of Professor Oleta Benn, a teacher 
of the 'highest standards with a 
national reputation, who is much 
loved by those of us who knew 
her and worked with her. Mrs. 
Benn left at about the same time 
as the former head of the music 
department, and it is no coinci
dence that for a few years after 
that the department floundered to 
a certain extent. We now have a 
new department head-a recog
nized musician with a long and 
successful career-and the depart
ment is changing directions, as it 
should be expected to. I for one 
welcome the changes.
Again, it is true that the deci
sion on music education was not 
presented in the best manner. But 
what is being implied by many is 
that the entire decision came out 
of the clear blue sky, which is 
simply not true. I recall a meeting 
in the spring of 1974 during 
which Dean Midani, without 
taking any specific actions, ex
pressed the idea that the music de
partment should move away from 
education curricula and towards a 
more intensive professional train
ing. Many of the people screaming 
bloody murder today were around 
then, making the same noises 
without offering any creative sug
gestions.
And today, what has the re
sponse been to the administra
tions decision? First, a deluge of 
crudely-lettered signs imploring 
the campus to save music edu
cation, and worse, the defacing 
of posters for other students and 
departments activities. More than 
this, large sections of the Fine 
Arts building have been smeared 
with graffiti, slandering the ad
ministration in obscenities which 
go far beyond the typical wise-guy 
remarks about faculty which can 
be found in every university in the 
world. And these crudities are not 
confined to washrooms but are 
splashed across the walls for 
everyone to see: prospective stu
dents and their parents, visiting 
artists, and patrons of our plays 
and concerts. I have spoken with 
not a few students in the Saturday 
morning Music Extension School, 
who have told me that they are 
not applying to CMU because 
they have heard that it is not a 
good department.
Those opposed to the decision 
on the music education option 
seem to have taken the opinion, 
if we cant have our way, well 
tear down everything else with 
us. I consider this frighteningly 
widespread attitude far more dan
gerous than even the most ex
treme changes of curriculum.
Walter Koehler 
BFA Music, CMU 74 
MFA Music. CMU 78
b

)
I

/VYouve already been to college. *So why should an Army ROTC scholarship 
be of interest to you?
An Army ROTC scholarship is a chance to help someone you 
know go to college.
In addition to paying full tuition, Army ROTC scholarships pay 
for textbooks and lab rees at more than 280 colleges and universities 
around the country. Schools like Howard University, Ohio State, Prairie 
View A&M, and UCLA, to name just a few.
Each one of our four-, three-, and two-year scholarships also pays 
a living allowance of up to $1,000 each year the scholarship is in effect.
Add to that the pay earned at Advanced Camp after the junior 
year, and an average four-year scholarship can be worth thousands of 
dollars.
And while many scholarships help young people get through 
college, our scholarships also help them get an important job after 
college. A job as an Army officer. Where young men and women have 
the cnance to put what theyve learned in college and Army ROTC to 
work leading people, managing money and machines, and developing 
qualities that will help them in any career.
So why should an Army ROTC scholarship be of interest to you?
Because youve already been to college, and know how valuable a schol
arship can be for someone who needs help.
For more information on Armv ROTC scholarships can:
578-2196/2204.Army KO'l'C. Learn what it takes to lead.
ArimROTC
4

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
Tartans whip Wooster
Hufnagel turns it on for CMU. 
by Bob Firm
Carnegie-Mellon passed their biggest test 
of the young season in defeating a talented 
Wooster (4-2) squad 7167 at Skibo Gym 
in what could prove to be one of the most 
exciting contests of the year. Coach Dave 
Maloneys crew had to come from behind 
in the final eight minutes of a game that 
saw the lead change hands 12 times.
Steady Larry Hufnagel and flashy 
George Harvey were the big heroes down 
the stretch for the Tartans. Hufnagel con
verted a three-point play on a power move 
to the hoop with 5:03 left to play to give 
CMU a 63-61 lead.
Hufnagels efforts capped a Tartan rally 
from a 57-53 deficit. Les Harpers
three-point play and baskets by Harvey 
and Greg Chambers countered the scoring 
of Woosters George Zambie and Preston 
Burroughs.
A long range jumper by Zambie tied the 
encounter at 63 all just 10 seconds after 
Tech had regained the lead. CMU then 
went into its four-corner offense. Working 
from the four corners, Harvey was at his 
best in dribbling around the Fighting Scots. 
The talented ball handler moved freely and 
effectively despite being harrassed by as 
many as three Wooster defenders.
Eventually Harvey and his backcourt 
running mate Mariano DeFilippo found the 
open man under the hoop for the easy 
shot. The man they most often found was 
/CMU says touche LaRoche
by Bob Firm
Carnegie-Mellon (2-0) ran their home 
court winning streak to 12 games as AllAmerican guard George Harvey put on a 
dazzling display of shooting in leading the 
Tartans,to a 91-65 victory over LaRoche 
College.
The 6-0 senior burned the Red Devils 
for 34 points. After missing his first five 
shots of the game. Harvey connected on 
13 of his next 14 field goal attempts. 
Harveys pinpoint accuracy highlighted 
CMUs outstanding 54% shooting for 
the evening.
L aRoche (1-9) surprisingly held tough
against the Tartans for much of the sloppy 
early going. Both teams were guilty of 
many turnovers in the opening minutes of 
play as the running games were not click
ing.
The Red Devils took their first lead of 
the evening, 16-14, when Nate Turner 
canned a jumper midway into the first half. 
The former teammate of Harvey at Alle
gheny Community College also had a fine 
scoring night with 22 points, most coming 
on long range bombs.
CMU got into gear when Harvey gently 
deposited three goals in a 45-second out
burst to give the Tartans the lead for good 
at 25-20. With Les Harper wiping the glass 
clean of any missed shots, the Tartans ran. 
ran, and ran some more to blow the game 
wide open to a 47-34 halftime advantage.
The second half was more of the same 
as CMU completely outclassed the Red 
Devils. Harvey acquired a new companion 
in the scoring parade in the person of Greg 
Chambers. Chambers got his shooting act 
into the form that will be needed for the 
Tartans'to dominate in the Presidents Ath
letic C onference.
Besides Harveys 34 points. Chambers 
and Harper were big contributors to the 
CMU offense. Chambers hit for 13 and
Hufnagel. The sophomore from South 
Hills Catholic was fouled underneath with 
3 minutes left and coolly flipped in two 
charity tosses giving CMU a 6563 lead.
Following Hufnagels conversions, 
Wooster could not find the mark and 
DeFilippo came up with the big rebound. 
CMU went back to its four-corners with 
Harvey controlling the action until again 
finding Hufnagel. The 65 forward took 
the ball to the hole for a field goal and 
a four point Tartan lead with 1:30 showing 
on the clock.
Wooster missed a couple of attempts 
to narrow the gap after CMU failed twice 
on the bonus foul situation. Finally, how
ever, Harvey and DeFilippo hit two free 
throws apiece to sew things up for the 
Tartans. Field goals by Zambie and Dave 
Frye were too little, too late for Wooster. 
CMU remained undefeated (30) and 
lengthened their home victory streak 
to 13 straight.
Coach Maloney, who had been quoted 
as being in favor of a 30 second clock in 
college basketbalLcommented about 
CMUs use of the four-corners offense. 
I would vote to have the 30 second rule 
in college ball except for the last five min
utes of the first and second halves. I think 
the four-corners offense can be an effective 
weapon during these periods. Since we 
have excellent ball handlers in George 
(Harvey) and Mariano (DeFilippo), and 
have Les (Harper) and Huffy (Hufnagel) 
to take the ball to the hoop, the fourcorners works very well for us.
Once again, Harvey was the big scoring 
gun for the Tartans as he poured in 25 
points. Hufnagel had the highest scoring 
game of his college career with 15 markers 
to go along with his nine rebounds. Harper 
and Chambers rounded out the balanced 
attack with 11 and 10 points respectively.
Wayne Allison led the Fighting Scots 
with 17 points and 10 boards, with fifteen 
of his points coming in the first half. 
Zambie and Burroughs split 28 tallies.
Carnegie-Mellon is on the road for the 
first time this season tomorrow night at 
8:00 PM as they face perrenial power 
Westminster.
Wooster Summary
CMU
PtsReb
Harvey256
Harper116
DeFilippo61
Hufnagel159
Chambers108
Underhill21
Belechak21
Hobart01
Hofmeister00
7133
Wooster
PtsReb
Frye81
Dixon75
Zambie143
Burroughs145
Allison1710
Altman7
Backus44
Kostohryz13
McCormack00
6738
Harper had 14to go along with 14 re
bounds.
In a balanced attack.four LaRoche
starters scoredin doublefigures. Mike
Goosby scored12 points.Jeff London
added 11. andJohn Zamule chipped in
with 10 to aid the play of Turner.
Tartans honored
Two Carnegie-Mellon football players 
were named this past week to the district 
small college all-star team. John Bielich of 
Bethel Park and Rich Lackner of Mount 
Lebanon were named to the first team of
fensive and defensive teams, respectively,!
For Bielich, the award caps his career 
here as a four year starter at offensive tack
le and as the top vote getter among offen
sive linemen in the Conference all-star 
balloting this year. Rich Lackner, also an 
all-Conference selection this year, received 
his recognition at the linebacking spot, a 
position at which he made Academic AllAmerican and Most Valuable Player irui 
the Conference last year.
The selections for the team were made 
from all the Western Pennsylvania small 
colleges including those in the Presidents 
Athletic Conference, the Western Division 
of the Pennsylvania Conference, and 
other independents such as Westminster 
and Grove City Colleges.
Named to the second team were quar
terback Bob Kennedy, tight-end Tony DiGioia, defensive tackle Bob Hantz, and 
safety Gusty Sunseri.
Mappers take 
I.M. table tennis
by Ken Bosch 
Last week the Mappers table tennis 
team entered the intramural finals with an 
undefeated record for the third straight 
year. They retained their 76 crown by 
edging the Hamerschlag squad 3-2. Led by 
Manager Daryl Adams, teammates Vinnie 
Chung, Charles McDaniels, Michael Alston, 
Edwin Williams, Marcus Savage. John 
Outing Jr., Alvin Long, Keith Hordatt, and I 
Tony Carrington, glided to a perfect 9-0 
season record.
After a first game loss, Vinnie Chung 
outdueled Captain Dan Rotar of Schlag, in 
what proved to be the decisive match; 19- 
21, 21-15, 21-17. In second and third 
singles Charles McDaniels and Michael Al
ston defeated Schlag opponents Miguel 
Santoni and Ron Davis, each in two | 
straight games. Chuck Langner retaliated 
by defeating Mapper Marcus Savage 21-19, 
23-21. Schlag finished the match in 
doubles as Rotar-Davis halted McDanielsSavage 21-11.21-13.
ROTC offers 
fitness program 
by Avram Scheiner
Do you get tired of sitting in classes 
all day? Do you want to get in shape? 
Well, Run For Your Afe will help you 
get there. What is it? Its a self-paced (non
calculus) physical fitness program. It is a 
running program to help motivate those 
desiring an organized training schedule. 
Each participant is encouraged to run 
every day-although this is not a require
ment. Training schedules are designed for 
all age groups and everyone is eligible to 
join. Maps with distances and running 
routes of CMU and Schenley Park will be 
provided to the participants. Mileage will 
be recorded on the honor system and 
posted on a master board. This will enable j 
you to compare your achievements with 
the other participants of the program. 
Prizes and incentive mileage certificates 
will be awarded. For complete details con- | 
tact MSG Adderly ROTC Dept. 2nd base
ment M.M. 9 AM4 PM. Mon-Fri. 578-2204
