Hickory dickory dock, the mouse ran 
up the clock, the clock struck one... and 
so did Sigma Alpha Epsilon, on the Mid
way during Spring Carnival booth competi
tion. The nursery rhyme (and excellent
craftmanship) paved the way to first place 
for SAE. Based on craftsmanship, appear
ance, enjoyability, and mechanics, it 
proved to be mighty impressive at the 
entrance of the midway.
Running a close second was Tau Delta 
Phi, with Alice in Wonderland. Stepping
into their entrance was indeed a little like
walking through the looking glass.
Alpha Tau Omega, placed third, with 
their reproduction of the Dutch tale of the 
little boy whose finger stuck in the 
dike-complete with windmill and Dutch 
boy.
Fourth place was captured by the 
cookie monster, entered by Delta Delta 
Delta Sorority. A beautiful replica of the 
famed monster who eats bean-bags.
With a hay diddle, diddle, the cat and 
the fiddle, Kappa Sigma Fraternity 
managed to jump into fifth place.
Buggy
Phi Kappa Theta took the first place tro
phy with a time of 2:24.0 in the 1972 
Buggy Sweepstakes. In a heavily contested 
outcome, PKA took second with 2:24.6, 
followed by Sigma Nu (2:28.8), Beta Theta 
Pi (2:29.0), SAE (2:32.4), and Tau 
Delta Phi (2:34.0). Trophies were awarded 
on the basis of Fridays results only, since 
Saturdays finals were rained out. Fridays 
results were supposed to only qualify bug
gies for the next days competition. A con
troversy arose in the second heat with a 
crash between Sigma Nu and Delta Tau 
Delta. Running close together at the top of 
Hill 2, they collided. SN lost a wheel spin
ning out and the Delt buggy cracked its 
body and suspension. The judges awarded a 
re-race to Delta Tau Delta, placing the 
blame on Sigma Nu. A Sigma Nu told the 
TARTAN that the Delt buggy had crashed 
into the curb first and then into Sigma Nu. 
There were no injuries. Beta Theta Pi took 
first in the design competition. The Phi 
Kap buggies took second and third places.
SAE's "Hickory Dickory Dock"
FS Discusses Women
Anne Friedman
The faculty senate meeting of April 1 1 
was an interesting as well as advantageous 
meeting for the women faculty members of 
CMU.
After the publication of the Womens 
Commission Report concerning the dis
crimination by sex, the Faculty Affairs 
Council, a committee of the faculty senate, 
instituted an inquiry to find out if this 
discrimination did exist. The Womens 
Commission report did establish the tact 
that womens salaries were lower, but the 
Faculty Affairs Council wanted to see if 
the reason was based on sex, as opposed to 
tenure and quality of teaching.
Dr. Josephs, spokesman for the commit
tee, told the faculty of the way in which 
the inquiry was handled and the results. 
The inquiry, he said, consisted ot letters 
sent to department heads to discover if 
faculty members were below salary for
their rank and why. A four person subcom
mittee was established to review the re
sponses and those that werent adequate 
were sent back to the respective depart
ments. The committee agreed that the re
sponses indicated that there was no dis
crimination of sex, and they also agreed 
that their inquirt was a satisfactory basis to 
negate sexual discrimination in the faculty. 
This motion was passed unanimously by 
ten people. Dr. Josephs summed up his 
statement by saying that the committee 
only considered sexual discrimination in 
salary and not in hiring and promotion. He 
went on to say that in one department the 
existence of past discrimination was recog
nized and remedied. He understood that 
discrimination of sex is not a simple situa
tion and that it might need more detailed 
examination in individual cases, but in the 
departments from which they received ade
quate responses, the committee concluded
Wins
Phi Kap's WINNER at the finish line.
SS Committees Report
Senate Chairwoman Leslie Bram called 
the last Senate meeting of the year to order 
on Tuesday, April 18. The major part of 
the meeting was comprised of committee 
reports, including information from the 
Trustees meetings on Monday. April 17.
The Board of Turstees is continuing 
their search for a president for CMU. They 
5<|found that none of the candidates under 
consideration were appropriate as presi
dents for CMU. There was question as to 
the inclusion of students in a decision 
which will probably be made over the sumner, but there was no answer.
Dr. Schatzs proposed budget with S2.4 
million deficit was rejected by the Board, 
and sent back for a 1.4 million cut. The 
 ----
Chairwoman Leslie Bram 
school can not run on this size deficit, and 
Schatz was instructed to redistribute 
funds to achieve this end. This means that 
departments will receive close financial 
supervision and major cutbacks. It was 
Mentioned that each Sloo tuition increase 
brings in additional income of $400,000. A 
$400-500 tuition increase would resolve 
financial crisis. Student government 
unds are also jeopardized by this decision.
 Hie General Campus Committee, 
^haired by Stan Ldelstein, will be compil
ing a list of persons and agencies for stu
dent referral when they seek help with a 
university problem or health care. Dean 
Swank suggested that this appear in the 
1972-73 Student Handbook.
Director of Admissions, Bob Elliot, re
ported that admissions in H&SS and E&S 
have considerably increased. He added that 
there will begin an active recruitment of 
women into C1T and MIS in the fall. Estim
ated size of the incoming freshman class is 
800, as opposed to the graduating class of 
under 600. Elliot stressed the importance 
of student participaiton in the admission 
procedure and urged students interested in 
helping with admissions to see him in War
ner Hall.
Space in Skibo for student activities has 
been a major and growing concern with the 
increasing demands of the commuters for 
study space and the increase in student 
organizations. Senate passed a motion urg
ing that Placements be relocated outside of 
Skibo, which would provide ample space 
for groups like the Activities Board and for 
study rooms. Copies of the motion have 
been sent to Dr. Schatz, Dean Swank, Mr. 
Parshall and Mr. Strafhmeyer. When there 
is space available in Skibo, Mr. Bob McCur
dy will be assigning the new office space. 
The Senate moved that the Activities 
Board be given special consideration over 
non-student use of this space, but not by 
bumping other organizations out of their 
space. The commuters were primarily con
cerned with maintaining their lounge and 
increasing the availability of study rooms.
Ed Levine, E Tower representative, 
moved that the Senate voice its support for 
the anti-war strike planned for April 21. 
After heated debate about the semantics of 
the motion and the support of political 
activity by the senate, the motion was defeated. yj^ first senate meeting of the 
1972-73 year will be held on the first Tues
day during classes in September.
SAE

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2 - THE TARTAN - Tuesday, April 25, 1972
editors note
Weve now seen eight years of war in Indochina. / have trouble recalling 
a time when there was no war. Today's high school students probably 
cant recall such a time.
The Vietnamese have known war for thirty years. They certainly cant 
recall a time without war.
Fifty thousand Americans dead; hundreds of thousands of Asians dead. 
Millions of maimed, blinded, crippled. Millions of refugees, The numbers 
are numbing, unreal. How many dismembered limbs?
A people is demeaned into drug addicts, beggars, black marketeers, and 
prostitutes. A nation of camp followers in created.
Air power has always been the chief weapon in this war against ct 
people. Again the figures are beyond comprehension. From the skies come 
millions of tons of explosives, napalm, phosphorus, defoliants, and ghastly 
anitpersonnel devices.
Now our air strength is doubled in a span of several weeks, and we are 
attacking such major population centers as Haiphong, with little or no 
military justification. TIME states, The military justification was that 
Haiphong is the Norths (point of entry) for war supplies. But those 
supplies can not effect the war between now and the start of the rainy 
season next month, when military activity slows down anyway.  Indeed, 
some sources estimate that perhaps 80% of the North's military supplies 
enter by rail from China.
This lack of military necessity again proves the criminal nature of 
American activities in Southeast Asia, and raises the spectre that Hanoi 
and Haiphong may be added to the names of Rotterdam, Coventry, 
Dresden and Nagasaki.
Only you can stop the bombing. Protest. Participate in the planned 
May 4 moratorium. Write letters to your representatives.
An uncertain God might damn Nixon to Hell, but too many children 
have already been there.
For some time now, women students at CMU have been requesting the 
initiation of gynocological services through the Health Office. In the fall, a 
group of students asked for permission from Dean Swank to survey the 
More wood residents concerning such services, which they received and 
then did. But Dean Swank rejectedthe results of the survey (in which a 
large majority considered such a service necessary), claiming dissatisfac
tion with the survey instrument.
The women requested that a student committee be set up to work with 
the Dean, and Dean Swank agreed, but never followed through. The 
Women's Commission Monitoring Committee, in a letter to the chairman 
of the Board of Trustees, citesother instances of delay in the Student 
Affairs Division with respect to the gynecology issue.
An excellent case can be made that gynecology is not an infrequently 
called upon specialty, such as urology or dermatology, but rather a 
regularly needed and indispensable service for women. Perhaps most men, 
and especially bachelors, are not aware of the extent of this need.
The financial crisis at CMU is real and undeniable. But as long as 
medical services are seen as a function to be provided by the university, 
some form of gyne/ogocal service should be provided. A cost analysis of 
the various alternatives should be immediately undertaken.
If the delays at the Student Affairs level have been necessary or 
junavoidable, an honest explanation should be made to the involved 
parties. If they have for some reason been a simple stall, this should cease 
immediately>t _____ :-r ;  SteveJurman
Letters:
Editor:
I have been a member of this college 
community for five years, as a student and 
as an instructor. I have been associated 
with the Department of Biological Sciences 
all five years. Therefore, my reaction to the 
Fall 1971 Faculty Course Evaluation was 
one of pride, mingled with regret. I was 
proud of the fine showing the Department 
made (as it has in all of the FCEs to date) 
in comparaison to the other departments in 
MIS: First in course rating, instructor rat
ing, value of assignments, course level, and 
presentation; second in course objective 
clarity; third in instructor response to ques
tions, and interest in students; and better 
than average in all other categories but one. 
My regret stems from the fact that the 
Department has dismissed the professors 
whose endeavors have resulted in such 
strong student recognition, e.g., Corensky, 
Springer, Jones, de Torok. Furthermore, 
the new undergraduate program being insti
tuted next fall is without such courses as 
Physiology, Embryology, Immunology, 
Pathogenic Microbiology, Plant Physiology, 
Genetics, Ecology and Radiation Biology; 
all of which are important to the edication 
of a biologist, and all of which have been 
offered recently by the Department.
The Administrations attitude toward 
the Department has been one of indiffer
ence at best. The budget has been small, 
and its share of the Fund for Distinction 
has baan all but eliminated. Although the 
Department under new leadership has 
brought in several fine research scientists, 
what could have been the nucleus of an 
excellent Department (those professors 
whose primary contribution is teaching) 
has been lost.
It would appear that the orientation of 
the Department of Biological Sciences at 
CMU has shifted from educational to re
search, and I feel that this shift is to the 
detriment of the campus as a whole, and 
the students in particular.Carl J. Munson Bio. Sc. 71
Editor:
Thank you for the generous space on 
your editorial page and especially for the in 
depth criticism of my logic. If I am to 
understand you correctly your objections 
to my views of the Iron City Beer Boycott 
are based on a thoroughly inthorough read
ing of my letter. I realize that you must be 
very busy but I hope that your editorials in 
the future wont be based on such shaky 
premises.
To begin with, you criticizw my racist 
apologetics because for years color was 
the criterion (in hiring practices) exclusive 
of ability No kidding! How can you pos
sibly justify present alternatives that are 
just duplicates (in a different color) of the 
old ones you condemn? Talk about shaky 
premises!
If your editorial had ended there 1 
might not have responded but the best is 
yet to come. You tell me that amends 
must be made to the black community for 
years of injustices by Iron City, the per
petrator of crime. I sincerely hope that 
youre just kidding. Any past injustices 
should never be and will never be corrected 
by future ones. It is my feeling that Iron 
City does not owe enything to anyone to 
such an extent that they should submit to 
the ludicrous demands asked of them.
Since the rest of your editorial seems to 
be only obscurely related to my letter I 
shall ignore it. In closing, remember, when 
you say Budweiser, youve said it all.J. Bunda
Editor:
Last year a large group of us prisoners 
formed the Imprisoned Citizens Union in 
an effort to change the countrys barbaric 
prison system.
Some of these unlawful conditions: pri
soners being beaten and even killed by sa
distic prison guards; the indiscriminate use 
of the chemical mace; lack of proper food, 
clothing, medical treatment; slave work for
15 cents a day; depraved abuse of the men
tally ill and Youthful Offender; the use of 
torture devices such as wall chains, the 
sweat box, wrist clamps and underground 
dungeons where the prisoners screams can
not be heard as they are being beaten by a 
Goon Squad and where they are held in
communicado from everyone including 
their family, friends, attorneys and Relig
ious Ministers.
These violations are committed by the 
very same people who have sworn to up
hold the law but who have instead created 
such tragedies as Attica and the Crime Fac
tories that they call Correctional Facilities.
Early this year the Imprisoned Citizens 
Union filed a Civil Rights Class Petition in 
the U.S. District COurt at Philedelphia, Pa., 
hoping to overhaul the Penal System of 
Pennsylvania.
The results of this Civil Rights Action 
will affect all prisons, directly or indirectly.
Some of the I.C.U.s Objectives Are:
1. Oustering all sadistic and incompe
tent prison employees. 2. Eliminating all 
torture devices 3. Enfranchising the prison
ers so that they will be able to vote. 4. 
Proper food, clothing, medical treatment 
and religious rights. 5. The elimination of 
fascist-type censorship of our mail and lit
erature. 6. The right to pursue our political 
beliefs without harassment. 7. Time off for 
good behavior. 8. Unobstructed access to 
the News Media and the Courts. 9. To set 
up a practical rehabilitation program, es
pecially for juveniles. 10. To support any 
legislation or Movement that we feel will 
guarantee to all citizens a decent wage so 
that they can live in dignity and so that 
their kids can go to bed with a full stom
ach. 11. To assist, within our capacity, 
those who are trying to bring a speedy and 
peaceful end to the Vietnam War.
We of the Imprisoned Citizens Union do 
not kid ourselves. We fully realize that our 
opponents in this battle are powerful, weal
thy, influential and possess that Holier 
Than Thou image, while we have nothing 
but a social stigma. However, with the help 
of concerned citizens we are hopeful that 
goals will be reached.
Richard J. Mayberry Director(more information is available from Sue Christian at the Community Affairs Office-Ed. )
Editor:
The last work day for the present ani
mal caretaker will be April 29, 1972. 
Therefore we will be in need of someone 
for that position for the duration of the 
school term, for the summer and maybe 
for next school year.
Details of work involved: 1. Watering 
and feeding animals as often as needed. 2. 
Changing bedding as often as needed. 3. 
Keeping the room well supplied with air 
freshener and clean in general. 4. Hours 
vary according to upkeep but on the aver
age involves 10-12 hours per week, inclu
ding Saturday and Sunday when necessary.
Remuneration: $2.00/hr.
If interested, please see Mrs. Donna D. 
McCall, Assistant Head, Department of Bi
ological Sciences, MMCC 113. An Equal 
Opportunity Employer.Donna D. McCall

---------------------------------------------------

iTHE TARTAN --Tuesday, April 25, 1972 --Page 3
let t e rs:
Editor:
For the past few months the American 
electorate and the other candidates have 
labored under an image of George McGov
ern that falls far short of reality. One point 
where this difference is blatant is Vietnam.
McGovern claims to have been a con
sistent and outspoken critic of the War, 
right from the start. Perhaps. But when 
it came to the crunch he failed the test. He 
voted for the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution 
(1964) and to kill the Morse amendment to 
repeal it in 1966. In a letter of dissenters 
he stated that he was steadfastly opp
osed to unilateral American withdrawl 
(1967). When approached in 1967 and
1968 to challenge Johnson in New Hamp
shire on the issue of the War he declined, 
not wishing to risk his Senate seat.
When questioned recently as to why he 
voted for Vietnam Was appropriations 
from 1965 to 1967 he gave as his reason 
that they were not separate from the whole 
defense budget. Yet, there were suuplemental appropriation bills separate from 
the whole defense budget for the War. In 
1965 he didnt vote, in 1966 (as well as 
1967 and 1968) he voted for such bills, on 
separate roll call votes.
At the same time he atated he voted for 
cuts in the Defense Budget every year. Per
haps. However, in 1967 he voted against 
both the Morse and Clark budget cutting 
attempts.
All the candidates made serious mis
takes concerning the War. Some did it 
while they were very in terested in foreign 
affairs (such as McGovern), others while 
they were still domestically oriented to a 
fault (such as Muskie). Only when, like 
Muskie and unlike McGovern, our public 
officials admit their mistakes can we as a 
people benefit from the lessons of Viet
nam.St eve Jay co Lincoln Hall Alan Weiner 208 John Street De Kalb, ill. 60115
Editor:
Three weeks ago, College Council arr
ived at what was thought to be a final 
decision when it proposed that the option 
be between ABC-No entry and straight 
pass-fail. At first, this idea seemed to be 
no more than a compromise proposal that 
was hastily arrived at in order to put a stop 
to a debate which has been going on longer 
than most people have cared to listen. But 
after some thought, it appears to have been 
the great solution to the problem.
As far as the average student is concer
ned, the main problem with the Honors-Credit-No entry system is that it 
makes no overall distinction between B 
work and C work. The ABC-No entry 
system takes care of this. H becomes A 
and P can be divided into B and C. For 
those who are planning to go to graduate 
school, the ABC-No entry system is tre
mendously advantageous. A student can re
ceive a perfectly valid Q.P.A., but not be 
penalized for courses that he didn't do well 
in. If he does poorly in a required course, 
lie is forced to take it over until he gets at 
least a C. Yet he can still get a grade in an 
elective that he normally wouldnt take 
and not have to worry about it severely 
damaging his Q.P.A.
At the meeting three weeks ago Dr. 
Eastman made the point that despite the 
failings of Honors-Credit-No entry, it ac
complished two things. First, it substituted 
the no entry grade for failure. Second, it 
eliminated the odious D grade entirely.
But last Wednesdays meeting reintro
duced them. Now a student must reen
counter all the problems of an ABCDR 
grading system for all the subjects in his 
major. College Council had a chance to 
endorse a good innovative grading system. 
Why, then, did it decide to reinstitute a 
grading system that hasnt worked in the 
past?
Stephen founders
Editor:
It seems ironic to me that this universi
tys Public Occasions Coordinating Com
mittee is concerned about the cosmetic 
condition of the Fine Arts Buildings front 
lawn for graduation exercises. The proce
dure for said exercises is to set up hundreds 
of folding chairs, which, due to the weight 
of people sitting on them, must cretainlt 
sink their legs into the ground, ruining at 
least as much grass as a few romping stu
dents do while playing frisbee.
I suggest that all cost-minded adminis
trators think seriously about providing 
more adequate recreation areas f-or their 
athletically-minded (and tuition paying) 
students if they want their lawns to look 
nice.
' Betsy Piez
Editor:
When I entered CMU this fall, I didnt 
knwo what to expect. College and living 
away from home were totally new exper
iences for me. However, one thing that I 
thought I would find was increased student 
involvement in politics and the anti-war 
movement.
To my surprise and disappointment, I 
found CMU as apathetic as Nixons silent 
majority. Student Senate is ruled off as a 
joke, even though it has control over many 
of the activities that effect us each day. To 
many students the Vietnam War is unim
portant now. I thought that since many 
students here are of draftable age, the war 
issue would be brought closer to home. 
Apparently not. Moratorium Day was a 
failure. Any attempt to organize people, 
e.g., Revolutionary Alliance, has been gen
erally unsuccessful. Maybe there are stu
dents on campus who feel strongly against 
the war. But they are silent.
This was enough to disillusion me but 
an event this week so to speak, put the 
icing on the cake. In response to increased 
U.S. bombing in Southeast Asia, a student 
strike was called for April 21st. As a sena
tor, I proposed a resolution in Senate sup
porting the strike and its principles. Since 
we had no school anyways, the resolution 
simply affirmed our support for the cause. 
The resoultion was defeated, 15-9.
By the time this letter is printed. Spring 
Carnival will be over. I hope you enjoyed is 
as much as I plan to. But remember, life in 
Southeast Asia is no picnic. Next year, 
maybe the students and faculty pf CMU 
will show more of an awareness of the 
problems facing the campus and the world 
around them and do something about 
them. Hopefully,
Ed Levine
Personals:
Tired of that Monongahelahashish and
your straight friends at Delemator School 
of Refrigeration? Join the Free Mexican 
Air Force and lite a better number.
Uncle Fooby, come back, there are ten
thousand cheeseburghers in the medicine 
cabinet-The Phantom Cumquat
Innuendoes
"Judy with that curly hair 
Paper bag that doesn't care 
Walking steps with feet of bare,
What, then was I doing there?
,don't they?
Lone
Judy "and the Moviemakers
"Innuendoes eating pips,
Mungoes making extra trips 
In and out like Clockwork Orange,
films:
CAMPUS
THE COLLECTOR. Activities Board. Fri
day, April 28. 7:00, 9:30 pm. Doherty Hall 
2210. Admission $.50.
HALLELUJAH TRAIL. MQC. Saturday, 
April 29. 4:00, 7:00, 10:00 pm. Doherty 
Hall 2210. Free.
COMMUNITY
PERFORMANCE. Starring Mick Jagger. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse. April 26-29. 7:30, 
9:30 pm. Admission: $1.00.
MONSIEUR VINCENT. Carnegie Lecture
But nothing seems to rhyme with orange. Hall. Sunday, April 30. 7:30 pm. Free.
"Ozob
Al EASSmith
Jubilee Jones
Was skin and bones when she'd run. 
She would pant,
So she ate everyday,
In a hoggish sort of weigh,
And turned 
Into an ele-phante.
Then one day, it all came back;
The panting and the cat in the hack, 
Feelong rudely, Violet.
"Zoob
Classified Ads=
Sublet May-Aug., turn. 1 bedrm. apt., liv
ing-dining rm., kitchenette, bath. N. Craig 
st., pets al lowed $ 150, 681 -2252.
Sublet-Beautiful efficiency. May to Sep
tember with option 140/month. Call 
521-5101
Sublet June-August. One bedroom fur
nished apartment. Ideal location Beeler 
Street. Call 687-7525.
Boat-8 passenger capacity, trailer and near
new 40 Hp Johnston motor used for exper
iment. Boat needs new foam flotation. Bids 
accepted by Vic Lechowicz, ext. 391, 
HH5.
Furniture sale, living room, bedroom, kit
chen. Must sell before May 1, 661-0768, 
661-2864. Diane.
Approximately 15 wooden desks for sale
at $5 apiece. Call CMU Ext. 657.
One or 2 roommates wanted for apart
ment in Squirrel Hill. Call 421-5763.
Summer sublet. Shadyside. $50/mo.
June-August. Kitchen priviledges. All male 
house, call evenings 687-5117
63 TR-4, good car, some work, asking
$450, 341-4337.
TELEVISION
DANTES'S INFERNO. Directed by Ken 
Russell. Channel 13, Thursday, April 27 at 
8:30 pm. Sunday, April 30 at 4:00 pm.
KNIFE IN THE WATER. Directed by 
Roman Polanski. Film Odyssey. Friday, 
April 28 at 8:30 pm on Channel 16. Sat
urday, April 29 at 8:00 pm on Channel 13.
YOUNG PEOPLES FILM FESTIVAL. Sat
urday, April 29. Channel 13. 6:00 pm.
Editor-in-Chief............................Steve Jurman
News Editor.....................................Jeff Ganek
Politics................................................Jim Slivka
Features Editor..........................Judy Narosny
Sports Editor..................................Jim Brogan
Business Manager..........................Alice Bright
Entertainment Editors ....Stephen Saunders
Julio Vera
Entertainment Staff...............Stephen Hamm
Janet Glassman, Walter Koehler 
Terence Palso
News Staff .John Agatston, Anne Friedman 
Mina Gerall, Jon Manon 
Betsy Piez, Bob Stern 
Cliff Stevens, Robin Reiter, Mike Hill 
Features Staff........Leslie Bram, Marc Field
Sports Staff..............Chuck Bond, Dan Buis
Lauren Hutton, Allen Kohan, Jim Powers 
Jon Swierzewski, Jude Heller
Photography Staff.......................Elliot Arons
Ed Levine, Jay Caras
Copy Staff...................................Lesie Bram
Sandy Preuhs, Suzanne Bozzo
Advertising.................................Chris Sanders
Mike Swartz lander
Published every Tuesday during the 
academic year at Carnegie-Mellon 
University, - Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 
15213. Editorial and Business offices in 
Skibo 50, Carnegie-Mellon University, 
Telephone (412) 682-4557

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4 - THE TARTAN - Tuesday, April 25, 1972
Announcements:
TWO HANDS, the new student literary
magazine, is now on sale. TWO HANDS is a 
selection of the best poetry and fiction at 
Carnegie-Mellon. TWO HANDS is now available for one dollar at Skibo information 
desk and CMU Bookstore now.
The Technical needs people for Advertising
and Circulation, Copy Staff, Editorial Staff 
for next year. If you are interested call the 
Editor at 683-3628.
Senior or graduate students who are con
sidering attending a recognized medical 
school overseas in the Fall of 1972 will be 
interested in a comprehensive program ini
tiated to aid and assist a limited number of 
qualified students to secure admission and 
achieve successful adaptation. Contact: 
European Medical Studnets Placement Ser
vice, Inc., 3 McKinley Ave., Albertson, 
N.Y.11507
The Carnegie Institute Museum of Art is
now conducting free lecture-tours of its 
permanent collection on Saturdays and 
Sundays at 2 pm.
O
Figures released recently by the Life Insurance Management Assoication shows 
CMU's $1 150 yearly room and board fees to be the sixth lowest among a group 
of 22 universities chosen by the CMU administration. The schools were chosen 
by Dr. Kibbee as schools with student bodies, objectives, means and academic 
standards similar to CMU's. The sample is not generally representative of room 
and board fees at all American universities.
RUGS
for less
with your ID Card
1000 9x12 Rugs 
SIS S19 S29 S49
* Mv 12x13. 12x15% *- 
 WMOUfSAUE FURMTTURE  
ROOMS, LIVING ROOMS, CTC 
AVAIlAltt AT NEARftY SHOWROOMS
Ai_1
CHASES
S42 WAUKUr STRUT, SHADYSIDE
OWN DAILY 10 am. to 9 p.m. 
(Saturday 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.)
. Cafl 421-1823
The Great McDonald - McDougal Feud.
Perverse, corrupt hillbilly judge disrupts 
feuding Appalacian families in the "The 
Great McDonald - McDougal Feud," a new 
musical by Lew Arit, with Nancy Foy and 
Lew Arit as a backwoods Romeo and 
Juliet. Featuring Andy Mathews and Ann 
Ulvestad as the McDonald parents, Alan 
Caldwell and Judith Benjamin as the 
McDonalds, and starring Bruce Hoard as 
the intervening and misguided judge. Spec
ial appearance by Carl O'Shea as the 
flower-child, Billy McDonald. Accom
panied by Terry Stern, on guitar, Lane 
Ruoff on piano, and Bill Graves on drums 
and harmonica.
To be presented in the Skibo Ballroom 
Monday May 1st at 2:00 pm and Wed
nesday, May 3rd at 2:00 pm and 8:00 pm. 
Admission: Dirt Cheap.
If finals and Spring Fever have you 
climbing the walls, break them down and 
dash over. It's a show calculated to EN
TERTAIN.
House to sublet-to responsible people, June
19-Aug. 26. Modern home: 3 bedrooms, 
living room, dining room, kitchen, base
ment. Completely furnished, including^ 
standard kitchen appliances, dishwasher. 
Spacious backyard and back yard patio. 
One block from Highland Park and 2 
blocks from 2 bus lines. Very reasonable 
rent fro responsible people.
If interested, please contact: Dr. R.V. 
Rice, Department of Biological Sciences, 
Campus, ext. 462,471 Mellon Institute, 
ext. 340
The Eighth Augustana College Summer
School in Spain, 1972 is to be held at 
Ciudad Universitaria in Madrid from June 
30 until August 8. Information is available 
from Dr. A. Doreste, Director, Summer 
School in Spain, Augustana College, Rock 
Island, Illinois, 61201.
Zero Population Growth of New York has
organized a Free Abortion Referral Service. 
They can be reached at 212-489-7794 from 
10 am. until 5 pm. on weekdays.
The Activities Fair is now being planned
for next fall's orientation. If your organiza
tion wishes to participate in the Fair, and 
has not been contacted by mail, please 
contact Joel Mannion at 687-7484 or 
682-9313.
The Hunt Institute for Botanical Documen
tation announces an exhibition on Book
bindings by Thomas W. Patterson to run 
until August 31 and one entitled Homegrow: Pittsburgh Artists on Plant Subjects 
to run until June 30. The penthouse Hunt 
Botanical Library is open weekdays from 9 
am. to 5 pm.
The Pennsylvania Orchestra, under the
direction of Maurice Kaplow, will make its 
Pittsburgh debut at Heinz Hall on May 1 at 
8:30. The orchestra's "Sights and Sounds 
of Seven Centuries" spans medieval to 
modern music in fresh and innovative fash
ion. Tickets are available through Heinz 
Hall.
The Collector
directed by William Wyler
Friday, April 28-7:00-9:30
with AB Film Card

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN -Tuesday , April 25, 1972 -- Page 5
RUG Searc hCoema ho its
Jeffrey Ganek
Marilyn Bender of the New York Times, 
the paper that has printed the Pentagon 
Papers, James Restons interview with Mao, 
and play reviews by Clive Barnes, says she 
chose to write for the business section be
cause the action is in the economic sec
tor. Last fall, the action led Ms. Bender 
to a shabby building surrounded by Pitts
burghs dirty air on the CMU campus. She 
found holes in the carpet of Dean Cyerts 
modest office, a young and transient GSIA 
faculty, and a strong stress on quantitative, 
mathematical research.
CMLPs Graduate School of Industrial 
Administration is an elite brain factory 
her story in the October 17, 1971 Sunday 
Times said. Yet, she noted, the school is 
highly respected in the practical business 
community as a leader of the quantitative 
school of business methods. In a TARTAN 
interview, Ms. Bender claimed that the 
research contribution of the academic 
world makes the business school relevant 
to the business community. GSIA is well 
known for its unusually strong emphasis on 
research. The strong publish or perish de
mand upon its faculty is not universally 
common among business schools. Busi
ness school faculty members are sources of 
information, she explained. Journalists 
are attracted to business schools because of 
the concentration there of information rel
evant to the business sections readership.
Ms. Bender, who has been an active 
journalist for seventeen years, cites GSIA 
as being the crux of a gap between the 
young, quantitatively skilled managers and 
older, less mathematically able members of 
the business community. The young can 
do things older managers cannot. Any 
middle to more than middle aged business 
manager has this question constantly in 
mind. Either he feels insecure of himself 
because he doesnt understand modern 
math and computers, or he is anxious to 
have someone around who does. GSIA, 
with its emphasis on quantitative analysis, 
is faced with this issue daily. Ms. Bender
claims her readers in the business commu
nity want to know what quantitative skills 
young mamagers are learning.
The traditional business communitys
Reporter Marilyn Bender
relationship with GSIA is not as intimate as 
it is with other schools. A former reporter 
with the Times and author of The Beauti
ful People, Ms. Bender found the GSIA 
building reflective of the schools associa
tion with business. Harvard, which the 
business community calls THE B-School, is 
such an imposing, picture-book, capitalis
tic, pantheon physical setting. The shabbi
ness of the GSIA building in contrast, Ms. 
Bender assumes, is a matter of style that 
has come about from the schools practical 
exjerience. If youre very close with busi
ness, if you get most of your money from 
business, the chances are great that youll 
have portraits on the walls and names on 
the doors. GSIAs Associate Dean, Ber
nard Goldsmith claims that the buildings 
architecture is a function of the period 
during which it was built. If Harvard Busi
ness School had been built in 1950, it 
, would be of the same 1950 modernistic 
' style. Ms. Bender contends, though, that 
an affinity with business that could pro
duce an aristocratic atmosphere is lacking.
Let's Get It Straight
WHO SAYS SO?
Qnmoi: Why should I believe in a God I cant see, just because some preacher tells jne I should? What virtue is 
there in a faith like that?
Ajmrnu Children believe in that fashion. "My father says so is proof enough for them up to a certain afire. Then they discover that Mom and Dad are not infallible, and they begin to ask questions, though this is hard on parents, children must learn to think for themselves.To believe merely on someone elses say-so is not the basis of Christian faith, nor is that what gives it merit in Gods eyes. The Bible says that God has chosen to save through preaching those whp are willing to believe. If and when any preacher proclaims the troth about God, then God's own Holy Spirit speaks through him to those who have open hearts and minds.
If you will listen in that way to a man who faithfully preaches the Bible, God will speak through him to your heart The first thing His Holy Spirit will do is to convict you of being a sinner. Remember, it is no longer the preacher you are listen
ing to, but the voice of God in your soul
The second thing the Holy Spirit will show you is that you must accept Christ's death as the basis for your salvation, that you must rely on His atonement for your sins. You are free to disbelieve any of man's remedies for sin, bat when the Holy Spirit brings the truth home to your heart, you reject it at the cost of your own souL
On the other hand, if you believe in Christ ss your Saviour, for time and for eternity, you are not being a credulous fool, but are exercising faith in the witness of Gods Holy Spirit to your own heart Then, and only then, is faith a virtue.
There is an image of the school being a 
place for engineers and mathematicians and 
of being so theoretical that there would be 
no practical and humanistic sides. As a 
New York Times reporter, she came to the 
Schenley Park campus knowing little more 
about the school than that. Ms. Bender 
claims she found at GSIA a working of the 
two-of quantitative research and humane, 
pragmatic interests. Her article stressed 
how the school surprisingly contradicts the 
image in many of its aspects.
Ms. Bender told the TARTAN that arti
cles like hers will have no effect on the 
publics or business communitys miscon
ceptions of GSIA. I just dont have the 
power or the authority, she declared. 
Eugenia Shepperd, being regarded as THE 
greatest authority on fashion, and Clive 
Barnes, by his own experience as well as 
the power of the paper he writes for, have 
the influence they do. Ms. Bender ac
knowledges that she has been beseiged by 
requests from other business schools beg
ging that feature stories be done on them. 
Over lunch on the twelth floor of The New 
York Times building, just off Times 
Square, she claimed that while Clive Barnes 
can make or break a show, her stories have 
absolutely no analagous impact.
She argues that the outside' world has 
great impact upon business schools. As a 
graduate of Columbia Law School, she sees 
any concern that the schools do have for 
minority groups and women as results of 
outside pressures. Its one of the big ques
tions being asked by businessmen. Are the 
recent social rights movements fads-like 
white shirts? Will they just go away? The
schools she claims have reacted slowly and 
their curriculums are clearly deficient in 
small business and minority group inter
ests. GSIA seems sincere in its concerns 
for social responsibility but because of its 
quantitative and theoretical reputation, it 
scares away women and minority groups. It 
is not a well known school among those 
groups, she observed.
Business schools are a very tough road 
for blacks, women, or any person with a 
social consciousness to follow. Ms. Bender 
was once told by a law professor in whose 
course she had recently earned an A that 
the only bar he would ever see her in was 
one at which liquor was served. B-schools 
are not exactly hotbeds of these issues. 
Some schools have made attempts to meet 
these needs, but results have been minis
cule. Ms. Bender cites financial pressures 
as obstacles in granting scholarships and 
recruiting segments of society who have 
not before been represented. She also has 
no doubt that the faculties are totally in
capable of understanding these new 
thrusts. The business school atmosphere is, 
she noted, generally alien to the minority 
group member.
Change wont require a revolution, 
she added in a slightly higher pitch. It will 
depend on pressure being exerted in the 
outside world. If the Nader and stockhold
ers protest groups get discouraged and give 
up, itll be a little much to expect the 
mood to develop in the schools. And as the 
change does come, theres an awful lot 
minority group members can learn about 
managing society.
PITTSBURGH SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA 
STUDENT DISCOUNT SUBSCRIPTIONS
1972-73 SEASON
Season tickets for the Pittsburgh Symphony may now be ordered in advance by 
full-time students. Seats will be assigned on a first-come, first-served basis. 
After your payment of _._iT- . _ $15.00 per season ticket
(limit two per person} the only requirement is that
you show your student II) card at each concert.
GREAT
ENTERTAINMENT
VALUE!
24 CONCERTS 
FOR 
$15.00!
SUNDAYAFTERNOONS
Sep. 17All < )rehestral ProgramJan.7Itzhak Perlman, Violinist
Sep. 24Isaac Stern, V iolinistJan.14Kyung Wha Chung,Violinist
Oct. 1Fritz Siegal, ViolinistJan.28Grant Johannesen, Pianist
Oct. 15Maurizio Pollini. PianistFeb.4Joao Carlos Martins, Pianist
Oct. 22Robert Casadesus, PianistFeb.18To be Announced
Nov. 5Andre Vi atts. PianistFeb.25Alexis Weissenlerg, Pianist
Nov. 12James Oliver Buswell,Mar.11Alicia de Larrocha, Pian^t
V iolinistMar.18To be Announced
Nov. 19Michael Grebanier, CellistMar.25Joanna Simon,
Nov. 26Maureen Forrester,Mezzo-Soprano
Mezzo-SopranoApr.1Hudolf Firkusny, Pianist
Dec. 10Kudolf Serkin. PianistMay6Christian* Fdinger,
Dec. 17Pinchas Xukerman, ViolinistViolinist
Dec. 24To Hi AnnouncedVI ay20Wagner^Tristan und Isolde*
: Mail to: Subscription Department
Pittsburgh Symphony, Heinz Hall 
600 Penn Avc., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15222
Attached is my check or money order, payable to Pittsburgh Symphony 
Society, in the amount of S , for which please send me
Student Subscription*.
Name
Mailing add re? 
City
School
StateZip
FOR MORE INFORMATION - CALL DAYTIME: 261-2233
SEND SELF-ADDRESSED, STAMPED ENVELOPE 
WHERE TICKETS SHOULD BE MAILED IN SEPT.
Acknowledgement of your order will SAE sent to your mailing addre
as indicated on coupon.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6- THE TARTAN - Tuesday, April 25, 1972
Students Commended 
for Steel Sculpturing
Commuters Need 
Bus Shelter Plans
Monday, April 17, a nationally renowed 
metal sculptor, Mr. Harry Bertoia, was on 
the CMU campus to judge the work of five 
students as part of an extensive stainless 
steel sculpturing contest.
Twenty thousand pounds of stainless 
steel was contributed for the contest by
Arts Winners 
On Display
The first public showing of the winners 
of the Second Annual ACE Award Compe
tition will be displayed in the Ivy Gallery 
of the Ivy School of Professional Art, May 
1 to 25.
The Awards for Creative Excellence 
contest, sponsored by the Association of 
Industrial Advertisers in Pittsburgh, drew a 
record breaking 800 entries this year. The 
200 prize winners were selected on the 
basis of excellence in communications as 
well as graphics.
The awards are made in over 40 categor
ies representing every type of industrial 
business and consumer advertixing design 
including radio, television, film and audio
visuals, created in the Pittsburgh area in the 
past year. The visual winners, chosen from 
magazines, newspapers, individual portfo
lios, posters, mailings, brochures, corporate 
reports, house publications, and other ad
vertising graphics, will be shown at Ivy.
The ACE winners were announced at a 
special dinner at the Allegheny Club, April
4. The Ivy Gallery is the first stop in an 
extended tour of the best in Pittsburgh 
advertising. From Ivy, the show will move 
to the Three Rivers Arts Festival before 
being presented at the four indoor malls in 
the Pittsburgh area.
Crucible Steel, the International Nickel 
Company, and the Techallcy COmpany. Along with this went one thousand dollars 
worth of prize money.
The five contestants included two grad
uate students, Donald Smoley and Russel 
Schlosser, and three undergraduate stu
dents, James Battisti, John Freshone and 
William Miller. Their sculptures can be seen 
around campus respectively at the right 
side of the Science Hall Lobby, the left 
side of the Science Hall Lobby and in Do
herty Hall rooms D311 and D200; in the 
GSIA lobby, in the courtyard behind the 
Fine Arts Building and also on the grass in 
front of Fine Arts.
As a result of the competition, Harry 
Bertois commended the work of William 
Miller and Donald Smoley. As has been 
previously decided, the prize money was 
shared equally among the five students. 
Also, the sculpture of the two winning 
contestants will be shown nationally at the 
sponsoring companies headquarters.
The competition is planned again for 
next year with the same companies contri
buting materials and prize money.
Kegina DeLuca
Wind, rain, and snow can bother people, 
especially when theyre waiting for a slow 
bus. Bus stops at CMU dont even offer a 
dry place where they can sit or lay down 
books. SUre, there are benches in front of 
Warner Hall, but they are a poor substitute 
for the stone bus shelter that existed there 
six or seven years ago. Thus, the Commuter 
Council has closely watched the efforts of 
the University of Piitsburgh in acquiring its
shelters.
Tom Gainan, former president of Pitts 
Commuter Association, stated that prob
lems with zoning ordinances and the cost 
of its two pre-fabricated shelters delayed 
their construction. (The estimated cost of 
both shelters had been $3800 for materials 
costing under $1000, but after considerab
le over-charging, final costs for labor total
ed $9000.)
Search Committees
Interview Candidates
The search for a new president for Carnegie-Mellon University continues una
bated. Such was the gist of Fred Foys 
progress report presented at the April 17 
meeting of the CMU Board of Trustees. 
Foy, the Chairman of the Trustees Special 
Committee On the Presidency, indicated 
that to date two promising candidates have 
visited the campus while two other pros
pects from within the University are being 
seriously considered. He said that the
search committees expect very soon to identify several additional likely candidates 
and to invite them to the campus. When 
the presidential prespects visit CMU, they 
are interviewed cariously by the student, 
faculty., alumni, and trustee search com
mittees, and by representatives of the ad
ministration.
When a candidate preference is agreed 
upon, said Foy, a special meeting of the 
Board of Trustees will be summoned for 
final action on the nominee.
According to Tom, no acts of vandalism 
have been reported. Although unsightly 
and flimsy, the plexiglass structures are in 
lighted areas and pose no security problem. 
They are not heated.
In CMUs situation, if a structure is built 
near Warner Hall, no zoning problems 
would be encountered. However, many stu
dents have indicated that a shelter built 
near the Alpha Tau Omega Fraternity 
house would be useful in catching down
town bound buses.
Mr. James Kerr of Physical Plant Opera
tions is interested in a new bus shelter 
design. It could be a project for an archi
tecture student. Think about it over the 
summer!
[q cHMrAcrefts shouu> 86 
0'S.
L
 PMT ON &---
RULeS A*1D R6SULATIOWSIH CKttroonS 'i
MAJT Htot Hipputs.
<D PfcNO-S t+UST 1TK6R Bt 
DRAWN FfceeHAND , OR 
ottfnreo emtvrly.
 cHMAcrft.$ must ewtoY 
ckoriH pHfcAses.
yd,t 
oh u>ovJ 
Hhtdemusa npl y.kHS 
Ato sm IT 
fciP-OFP
MAL CHMAGPE*S MUJTHAUfc LOM6 IR AHO
>v*
Q THiS TCHN\QUe 
SHOULD Re AVOIDED AT 
AU. COSTS!
"AT
MANHATTANVILLE COLLEGE
Undergraduate and Graduate Courses for Men and Women
THREE SUMMER SESSIONS
Session I: June 12July 28 (Seven Weeks)
Undergraduate session and selected education courses 
Session II: June 26July 28 (Five Weeks)
Workshops and courses for graduates and undergraduates 
Session III: July 31 August 31 (Five Weeks)
Workshops and courses for graduates and undergraduates
ARTS, MUSIC, SCIENCES, HUMANITIES Day and eveqing courses open to 
degree, non-degree, and qualified high school students.  Teacher 
certification courses  Interdisciplinary master's program  Masters in 
Teaching program  Air-conditioned classrooms  Residential and rec
reational facilities  Cultural activitiesconcerts, plays, lectures, films. 
For 1972 Summer brochure write:
Director of Admission, Manhattanville College / Purchase, New York 10577 / (914) WHite Plaint 6-9600
"THE INTERNATIONAL STUDENT IDENTITY CARD"
If you've been to Europe, you know you needed one.
If you haven't been, but are planning to go, you should be informed. You 
need one.
The "ISIC", for student travel reductions within Europe, accomodation 
info, theatre discounts, and more.
For your ISIC send $2, a photo, and proof of full time student status to 
TEJ/PGH, Duquesne University, Pgh. Pa. 15219.
For a dollar more you can receive our "Triplanner" and "Student Hotel 
and Restaurant Guide."

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN - Tuesday, April 25, 1972 - Page 7
Morgan Sees Self-Centeredness
Jon Manon
The latter sixties have been character
ized, congratulated, and condemned as a
9 period of student unrest and socialpolitical activism. The first two years of 
the seventies are now being evaluated as a 
time of retrenchment, as years of student 
non-involvement. The word goes out that 
the compuses are once again quiet. Political 
conservatives may hail the calm as a ration
al return from the brink of brash anarchy, 
while those of leftist persuasions lament0 the deceleration of the Movement. But 
why this pause from vocal dissent? How 
long? Where to now? Seeking a modicum 
of enlightenment, 1 approached Dr. Robert 
Morgan, the Director of the CMU Counsel
ing Center, with such ill-formed questions., j 
Dr. Morgan seemed a likely academicain to 
query both because in the working of his 
vocation he deals with the motivations of
0 the now non-involved students, and be
cause he has been consistently involved in 
liberal social endeavors and sympathetic to 
much of the recent student radical energy. 
(He was among the organizers of CMUs 
first teach-in).
The new student non-involvement is not 
qualatatively akin to the much-remarked 
apathy of the 1950s according to Dr. 
^ Morgan. Rather, it is a product of the activ
ism of the sixties and tempered by that 
experience. Dr. Morgan characterized that 
activism, beginning with civil rights activ
ities and then broadening and shifting to 
critism of the Vietnam War, as straight
forward solution building prompted by the 
obviating of major social evils. A festering 
problem was detected, and a seemingly evi^ dent solution proposed. At first a few and 
then many moved to implementing that
had come to be associated with political 
radicalism (long hair, dope use, a new con
cept of sexuality), they disregarded the 
activism which was now assessed as either 
contradictory in its violence of simply use
less. And so, said Dr. Morgan, many former 
student activists have turned inward in a 
search for personal satisfaction. He sees 
this reassertion of self-centeredness tak
ing various forms from increased drug in
dulgence to experimentation with Eastern 
mysticism or immersion in the evangelical
ism of the Jesus freak to deeper involve
ment with music to acceptance of the 
Rip-off view of society and ones rel
ation to it.
And while the once-politicized students 
retreat into life-styles consonant with their 
new perception of group powerlessness in 
the face of institutionalized social forces, a 
new generation of activists refuses to be 
spawned. According to Dr. Morgans anal
ysis, the young ones coming up, after a 
brief and often distorted flirtation with 
activism write off political involvement as 
ineffectual and opt instead for personal 
gratification. As a local example of this 
trend, the Associate Professor of Psych
ology cited a recent protest rally organized 
by the Pittsburgh Resistence on the occas
ion of a visit to town by Vice-President 
Agnew. Hoping for an orderly rally, what 
the Resistance got was every teeny hop
per in Pittsburgh who came out of the 
suburbs and jumped up and down and 
yelled pig. Not only were the potential 
activists uncommitted to principles. They 
didnt even know what the principles were. 
All they did know was that nothing chang
ed in a month.
According to the Counseling Director, 
the freshman and sophomores here at CMU
(and presumably across the country) are 
significantly less aware of the methods of 
change that the juniors and seniors that 
experienced the last outbursts of student 
dissent (notably the energies precipitated 
by the incidents at Kent State in the spring 
of 1970.) The younger students, said Dr. 
Morgan, never got a full understanding as 
a group of what protest and dissent really 
was. And, in response to my inquiry, he 
said that he did not see evidence which 
might indicate that the uninitiated are de
veloping any original modes of protest. Nor 
did he detect any signs of renewed involve
ment among former activists.
While Dr. Morgan fears that the inward 
turning shaping todays quiet campuses is 
predominantly a manifestation of pure 
self-centeredness, but not a solution. he is 
hesitant in his pessimism. It is just poss
ible, he said, that we are seeing a deeper 
kind of revolution, a cultural revolution or 
a revolution in values. It doesn't show up 
in action but it is beginning to show up in 
changes in life styles or vocational ob
jectives. Perhaps, he suggested, the evolv
ing cultural patterns of the college pop
ulation are not simply badges, but 
rather, constitute the appartus of a revol
ution without protest but a revolution 
nevertheless. He is especially impressed by 
the students desire to live naturally, by 
their willingness to experience what they 
feel, and by their rejection of that which 
is artificial and hypocritical.
Dr. Morgan believes that this cultural 
revolution may even be filtering from its 
campus strongholds into the everyday life 
of the general population and if this be so, 
he concluded optimistically that it could 
bring about a greater change than activism 
ever did.
While mass involvement became an in
creasingly uncomfortable affair, noted the 
counseling director, individual responses to 
the nations dilemmas continued to be 
hopeful and exciting until many personal 
solutions were always to destroy. A lot 
of activists lost faith in the solutions they 
had been accepting and using, while many 
of them retained the cultural badges that 
solution. As momentum gatherd, success 
seemed imminent, almost inevitable, within 
reach for the first time. Dr. Morgan, speak
ing from first-hand experience, noted that 
Some of us old time liberals had felt pow
erless, but as more and more people raised 
their voices in the movements behalf, the 
sense of powerlessness evaporated as the 
participant first experienced the feeling 
that I am one of many. There grew for 
many activists a new hope and a feeling of 
comraderie, and a very satisfying sense of 
mass confirmation of ones own con
victions.
But then, in the last years of the decade, 
explained Dr. Morgan, the solidarity of 
method eroded with the acceptance of 
violence as a means of protest by a seg
ment of the activists. We who were ob
jecting to agression around the world sud
denly found ourselves part of a movement 
where the radical members advocated the 
use of violence and aggresion. And so _ 
began the dissolution of unity within the _ 
ranks of student activism. No longer, Dr. - 
Morgan observed, did one assume that a ~ 
rally or demonstration would be peaceful. _ 
Potential participants began to check out  
the probable nature of activits before r 
committing their support (You couldnt ; 
just go.), lest they become involved in a 
violent confrontation alien to their ' 
sensibilities.
STUDY IN BRITAIN
Educational Programmes Abroad Ltd. has places for sophomores and juniors for 1972 in the following programs:ft European Studies Sussex $2350Education Edinburgh $2350Drama, Art and Music London $2410Each offers 15 credit hours per semester. The cost includes air fare, 35 weeks room and board, tuition, and excursions in Britain and Europe.Write: EPA, Box 1336, Williamsburg, Va. 23185
Discover the World on YourSEMESTER AT SEA
Sails each September & February
Combine accredited study with 
educational'stops in Africa, Aus
tralasia and the Orient. Over 5000 
students from 450 campuses have 
already experienced this interna
tional program. A wide range of 
financial aid is available. Write 
now for free catalog:
WCA, Chapman College, Box CC12, Orange, Cal. 92666
WJASFM
IInv
SOME GRAD SCHOOLS 
ARE MORE CHALLENGING 
THAN OTHERS.
Its graduation day and there you stand... diploma in hand and future in doubt. You could go on to graduate school.Or you could look for a job in todays ever-tighten- ing job market. Or, you could put your education to work immediately by applying for the Air Forces OfficerTrain- ing School program.Upon qualification, youll find yourself beginning 12 weeks of specialized study designed to prepare you for the challenge and responsibilities of an officers commission. And, give you the chance to go on to flight school to earn those famous
silver wings as an Air Force pilot or navigator.OTS is your chance to break away from the crowd and be recognized. For all the facts, mail in the coupon. Or, call 800-631-1972 toll free: Remember,with an Air Force future, the skys nolimit. * In New Jersey call 800-962-280i.
PUS AIR FORCE RECRUITING SERVICE  N-vJ DIRECTORATE OF ADVERTISING (RSAV) RANDOLPH AIR FORCE BASE TEXAS 78148Please send me more information on Air Force OTS. I
Name____
Address___
Date of Birth.
City_____
State ____
.Sex__
_County_
-Zip_
Date of Graduation-------School---------- II understand there is no obligation.
Find yourself in the Air Force .J

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8 - THE TARTAN - Tuesday, April 25, 1972
Womens Commision files MCHR Complaint
The Monitoring Committee of the C-MU 
Womens Commission filed a formal com
plaint of sexual discrimination with the 
Mayors Commission on Human Relations 
on April 17. The complaint was filed upon 
refusal of the Trustees to allow the Moni
toring Committee to make a presentation 
at the Trustees Meeting. This is the state
ment sent to Fred Foy, Chairperson of the 
Board of Trustees.
18 April 1972
Members
Carnegie Mellon University 
Board of Trustees
Dear Member of the Board:
Enclosed is a copy of a statement the 
CMU Monitoring Committee for Affirma
tive Action for Women requested permis
sion to make to the Board of Trustees at its 
April 17 meeting. Chairman Foy talked 
with Mrs. Carlson on the phone to say that 
he did not wish to have us present this 
statement to the Board and that he would 
not ask any one else to present it for us. He 
explained the difficulties our request pre
sented in terms of short notice, the search 
for a President and many responsibilities of 
Dr. Schatz.
This statement was intended as a last 
appeal for action to end discrimination 
against women at CMU. In view of the lack 
of response to previous requests for such 
action, and in view of the denial of permis
sion to make this appeal within the CMU 
community, the Monitoring Committee, on
17 April 1972, filed a complaint against 
Carnegie-Mellon University, charging discri
mination on the basis of sex, with the 
Mayors Commission on Human Relations.
It was with the greatest regret that we 
filed this complaint. However, lack of re
sponse to efforts to initiate change within 
the University frameworkhas left us no al
ternative except to seek external sources of 
enforcement pressure.
Sincerely,
Helene Borke 
Tricia Carlson 
Irene Daugherty 
Joan Velar
STATEMENT OF CMU MONITORING 
COMMITTE FOR AFFIRMATIVE AC
TION FOR WOMEN TO THE CMU 
BOARD OF TRUSTEES,REQUEST FOR 
PRESENTATION 17 APRIL 1972.
To refresh your memory on the dates of 
the event leading up to this moment:
1)In November 1970, women of the 
University first petitioned Dr, Stever to 
establish an office to be concerned with 
equal opportunity for women.
2)In February 1971, Dr. Stever esta
blished a Commission to investigate the 
Needs and Status of Women at CMU and to 
recommend affirmative action should find
ings indicate that CMU practices discrimi
nate against women.
3)The Commissions preliminary report 
was issued in April 1971.
4)The Final Reprt was issued in Novem
ber 1971.
5)Actions since November have been re
ported to you in two letters dated 22 Feb
ruary 1972 and 6 April 1972.
Several times in this eighteen month his
tory we have needed and requested specific 
actions which would show that discrimina
tory practices would end and affirmative
action would begin. We have been patiently 
persistent, but affirmative action has not 
been forthcoming. In fact, the first draft of 
CMUs Affirmative Action plan - com
pleted just this past week - is in two words 
an administrative whitewash. It has no 
target dates or specific goals. It does not 
even meet the basic criteria outlined in 
Revised Order Four.
The affirmative action we request stems 
from our concern for the women of this 
University - faculty, staff and students. We 
also personally have another very deep con
cern - we are dedicated to doing everything 
in our power to make CMU a better Uni
versity - one more responsive to the society 
in which it exists.We do not find these two 
concerns in conflict with each other. Imp
lementation of the recommendations of 
the Commission and the more specific re
commendations we have made to the Ad
ministrative Action Committee would re
late to this seconddeep concern directly:
1 implementation of recommendations 
in the employment area and equitable 
treatment of employees would enhance 
CMU as an employing establishment and 
increase the probability of acquiring and 
keeping high calibre employees of both 
sexes.
2)adoption of recommendations in the 
academic program area would enable CMU 
to attract more students, men and women, 
graduate and undergraduate.
3)adoption of specific means of imple
menting the Commission recommendations 
would put the university in a position of 
compliance with executive orders and legi
slation pertaining to civil rights for women.
At no time since the publication of the 
Commissions Final Report have the chief 
administrators of CMU indicated that any 
of the 55 recommendations is in any way 
unreasonable. However, the progress 
roward implementation has been minimal 
and unbelievably slow. We recognize that 
to some extent adminsitrative inaction is 
related to the political situation at the Uni
versity and the lack of'a President. We 
cannot wait until this situation is resolved 
because for the second time since the preli
minary report of the Commission, the 
Board will be determining a fiscal budget. 
The first budget - the one for 1971-72 - did 
not reflect a commitment to correct ine
quities and end discrimination. The
1972-73 budget provides one more oppor
tunity for you to express the priorities of 
this University - the most fundamental of 
which should be to end unfair and unlaw
ful practices.
It remains for the Board of Trustees to 
take a position of leadership and instruct 
the administrative officers to eliminate, as 
rapidly as possible, discrimination which 
exists in relation to women at the Univer
sity. To show that CMU is commited to the 
foal of eliminating discrimination against 
women, we recommend that the Board 
pass a resolution to this effect at this 
meeting. Wesuggest the following for your 
consideration:
WHEREAS, The Board of Trustees of Car
negie-Mellon University is committed to as
suring equal employment and educational 
opportunity and equal treatment of em
ployees and students at the University re
gardless of sex, be it
RESOLVED THAT:
1 )salary equalization and increases shall 
commence as rapidly as possible through:
a.Correcting salaries in the FY 1972-73 
budget to the extent possible in considera
tion of the general knowledge of job com
parability b.providing a budget item of 
$250,000 specifically for salary equaliza
tion as job evaluations indicate a need for 
salary correction,
c. conducting evaluation of exempt 
non-faculty jobs so that equitable salaries 
can be more precisely determined, and
d.providing the maximum percentage 
salary increase allowed by the prevailing 
wage and price board guidelines to non
exempt job category pay scales across the 
board; 2)active recruitment for women 
shall commence at the initiative of all aca
demic department heads and deans and 
University administrators with the intent 
being to increase the number of women in 
faculty and managerial positions (thereby 
reversing the trend towards fewer women 
on the faculty and the pattern of no 
women in managerial positions), and to 
increase the number of women students in 
graduate and undergraduate programs.
3)an office of equal opportunity shall 
be established with a woman as Director, 
with the selection of this woman to be 
subject to the approval of the Monitoring 
Committee.
wdwmaeGaW
that there is no evidence of discrimination 
of sex in salary for rank.
After Dr. Josephs statements, a one 
person minority consisting of Dr. Borke 
stated her argument against the findings. 
Her first objection was the use of inappro
priate statistical comparaisons. Dr. Borke 
stated that in the letter sent to the deans 
the question asked was, Is her current 
salsry beneath the average for her rank in 
her department? She argued that this 
comparison was between womens salary 
and the average salary for the department, 
which includes both men and women, and 
thus this average lowers the minimum 
wage. Her second objection was the lack of 
comparability of data to the data of the 
Commissions report and the Report of the 
Monitoring Committee. Both the Commis
sions and Monitoring Committees data 
was based on data compiled for the Univer
sitys report to AAUP. Subjective analysis 
of the data without any attempt at tabulat
ing the findings was her third argument. 
She said that the reaction to the data was 
only impressionistic. The fourth objection 
was the lack of objectivity in the instru
ment used to collect the data. She empha
sized that the way in which the letter was 
worded caused the heads of departments to 
only justify and rationalize their positions, 
thus the letter in itself was not an adequate 
basis to inderstand the problem. Dr. Borke 
also made the interesting point that length 
in service is not highly correlated with salsries, as the highest salaries that are paid to 
women are those who are the most recent 
additions to the faculty. In a chart which 
Dr. Borke passed out in the meeting the 
comparaisons of salaries of women faculty 
with average salaries for women and men 
were shown.' The total number of women 
who were compared was twenty-eight. The 
number of salaries above the average was 
four. The number of salaries equal to the 
average was four. There were twenty wo
men with salaries below average. Dr. 
Bourke suggested that a motion be made to 
have tl e Faculty Affairs Council reexamine 
the situation.
A vote was taken at the end of the two 
hour discussion and Dr. Borkes motion th 
re-evaluate the situation was carried 16 to
10 with 2 abstentions. Thus the inquiry 
Will go back to the Faculty Affairs Council 
for further investigation.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN - Tuesday, April 25, 1972 - Page 9
Vietnam: The Endless War
Racism Of Vietnam War 
Linked To Indian Wars
Tom Hayden 
(reprinted from WIN)
The U.S. is attacking a people in 
Vietnam with a very strong identity and 
culture, going back centuries. The officials 
of North Vietnam, and of the Peoples Rev
olutionary Government of South Vietnam , 
many of them poets and intellectuals, like 
Ho Chi Mihn, lay claim legitimately to a 
long and proud tradition of resistance to 
foreign invasion against the Chinese, the 
French, the British, the Japanese, and now 
Americans.
The constant history of invasion has 
created a united, fierce nationalism thats 
built on traditions of communalism in the 
villages, which make cooperative values 
much more natural than compatitive ones.
One journalist has interviewed Vietnam
ese who are just learning to read and write 
as adults in North Vietnam. Not well ac
quainted with foregin words, he wrote that 
they thought when they heard the word 
individualist, that it meant cannibal. They 
had shared work together, lived together, 
and since time immemorial had made com
mon cause against natural catastrophe and 
enemy attack.
The U.S. has changed our society into 
a society of bar girls, prostitutes, pimps, 
theives, gangs of juvenile delinquents and 
dope addicts, along with intensifying go
vernment graft and corruption. This state
ment was made by the president of the 
National Union of Students of South Viet
nam.
This war is climaxing on the Asian main
land. But it began a long time ago in the 
United States. Its only the latest phase, 
you might even say, of a 500 year war 
between the Western settlers and the native 
inhabitants of the lands which they have 
been seeking to conquer. If we use Viet
nam as a mirror, we can see its origins in 
the settling of the United States, in the 
genocidal war, for example, against the In
dians.
When Hubert Humphrey in 1968 spoke 
of spreading the Great Society to Asia, 
while millions in Asia were being displaced 
or killed-five million in South Vietnam alone-it was no different really than those 
idealists who came here to create a new 
world a long time ago, and in the process 
deceived, manipulated, killed and subjuga
ted the native tribal communities.
Even our most progressive leaders, sup
posedly progressive leaders, ever since have 
combined this strange idealism with geno
cide. Lincoln, for instance-and hes only 
one example of many, many-fought and 
even re-enlisted-re-enlisted-in the Black 
Hawk War in Illinois. Very few people 
know that.
The parallels between this was in IndoChina and the Indian wars that America 
fought at its foundation are absolutely un
canny. Anthropology tells us that the In
dians, in fact, came from Asia, explaining 
the similarity of appearance.
The Indians lived in a total culture, in 
harmony with the universe, close to their 
ancesters. They considered, typically, the 
earth to be their mother, and the sun their
The massacres a hundred years ago at 
Sand Creek, or at Wounded Knee, which 
we know so little about, are no different 
than those which we have learned so much 
about in Vietnam, like the one at My Lai 
The cutting off of genitals, the cutting off 
of ears, the displaying them as trophies did 
not start in Vietnam, it started in the In
dian wars. The body count did not start in 
Vietnam either, as were reminded each 
time we see a cowboy and Indian movie, 
and see that approximately one hundred 
savages had to be killed in each battle for 
five or six American bluecoats, rangers.
Theres a similarity in the role that trade 
played, in Vietnam, the way Ive just de
scribed it, the American Indian communi
ties became dependent on the Western eco
nomy and technology, and lost their selfreliance. They acquired firearms and am
munition. They acquired farm equipment. 
The same process goes on today in Viet
nam.
The destruction of the food supply. The 
bison were killed on the plains for the same 
reason that crops are sprayed and the land 
is defoilated in South Vietnam, to deny the 
rice supply, the food supply to the villagers 
there.
Forced deportation. The Cherokee In
dians, and every Indian community, but 
the Cherokees in particular. They were 
driven off their lands in Georgia by An
drew Jackson, after they did everything 
possible to assimilate into the American 
framework. And on their long trails from 
Georgia to Oklahoma hundreds and thou
sands of them died, and their cultural life, 
which was based on their relationship to
scious and unconscious both of the para
llels, the analogies between now and the 
founding wars against the Indians.
One Vietnamese political leader, for ex
ample, quoted recently in the Boston 
GLOBE, said, You cannot defeat the 
other side militarily unless you devote the 
next 30 of 40 years to it. You can win if 
you keep Fighting for a generation. You 
simply exterminate all the Vietnamese, the 
way you killed the Indians in America, and 
there will be no more of us.
The classic novel of the Vietnam War, 
The Quiet American, features a hero by 
the name of Alden Pile, who apparently is 
in reality CIA general, counter insurgency 
expert Lansdale. Hes always reading novels 
about the winning of the west, as he pre
pares for his coming test with the Chinese 
Communists.
In words, names, language, the analogy 
with the Indians is ever present in Vietnam. 
We have gunshops, and helicopters that are 
named Cheyenne, Mohawk, Chinook, Iriquois, Thunderchief. The^ombingof North 
Vietnam was called Operation Rolling 
Thunder. Vietcong territory is called Injun 
country. Men in their helicopters are said 
to be riding shotgun. ARVN soldiers in 
charge of village security are called Kit 
Carsons scouts. And Lyndon Johnson 
made it all very memorable with the ques
tion to his men,Are those just words, or 
have you some cookskins on the wall?
Even at the level of policy concepts, the 
analogy is pervasive. Maxwell Taylor in 
1966, before the Fullbright Committees, 
talking about a way to create security in 
the villages, said, It is very hard to plant 
the corn outside the stockade, when the 
Indians are still around. We have to get the
There are 400 thousand registered pros- , 
titutes in Saigon alone. Jhefe are 25D thou
sand, by conservative estimate, 250 thou
sand orphans of GIs. In one day, in Decem
ber 1969, 15 teenagers in Saigon commit.te^l suicide. There are 400 thousand politi
cal prisoners in South Vietnamese jails. The 
American CiA has set up a li'terary form of 
penetration and-'one of its latent magazines  
Cohtains. a short'sjory whiph contains the 
following iittle philosophy. What is happi* ness? Nc>'such thing-exists. Qnly accep- . 
tanged real / To accept, thats all. * ^
The NLF organizes around tha slogan 
that if South'Vietnam there are more bars# * ,  *  and- brothels than hospitals, more prisons 
than schools. The American goal ia Viet*
* jiam .is* to* rriajcfe the Vietnamese . into a *
'.peopje iikp 'ourselves. The Vietnamese call*
1 tlfis becomirig  yellbfo-skinned American.
father. .The land and the water belonged to 
evryOn.. An attitude very far removed 
from that of the invaders. The attitude of
 the- invaders being one in which man is 
/pitted against nature; in which he land is 
divided, into private property; in which 
competition  rules* the . relationshops be
tween people. . '
Racism is a constant factor in the rela
tions with th Indians, and the relations 
with the Vietnamese. The Indians were 
considered savages, just as the Vietnamese 
are considered dinks. VC, or Vietcong, is a 
word developed by the American Psycholo
gical War Department. Its a derogatory 
word, Apache and Sioux were both words 
.that were jnVentefl by the French and by 
the Americarts, and which translate into 
something like enemy, and were than ap
plied .to the tribes that the Americans op
posed, and fought, and subjugated.
their land, which they tarmed, and where 
their ancesters were buried, was destroyed.
Cultural destruction of all kinds. The 
brothels of Indian prostitutes outside the 
stockade of the wild west are paralleled 
exactly by the shanty-towns of prostitutes . 
outside American bases in South Vietnam.
And drugs today play the role that fire
water , layed on the frontier. Phony negoti
ations and talk of peace. The United States 
negotiated hundreds of treaties with the 
Indians, which were never implemented. 
Just as throughout the history of the Viet
nam war, the United States has promised 
peace, but has insisted on terms which amount to subjugation and surrender of its  
opponents.
All sides of the Vietnam war are conIndians farther away in many of the prov
inces to make good progress.
More recently, this last year, the direc
tor of the International Voluntary Service, 
Hugh Mancke, testifying before the Senate 
Subcommittees on Refugees, talking about 
the fact that in three months 70 thousand 
tribal people in South Vietnam had been 
relocated, according to official U.S. figures, 
at least one half of 1400 Montignard vil
lages had been relocated at least once, and 
then Vietnamessed, as by the wife of for
mer Prime Minister Nguyen Cao Ky, who 
moved in, purchased the land, and then 
began farming and lumbering.
Mancke, in his testimony before the 
Kennedy Committee, called this painfully 
reminiscent of the activities of the Ameri
can pioneers with regard to the Indian
scious of this, and are unconscious, even, in ^ tribes. He said he spoke with a Captain
their language, and in their practices, con-continued on page 11

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10 - THE TARTAN - Tuesday, April 25, 1972
Economic Exploitation 
Seen As War Objection
Tom Hayden 
(reprinted from WIN)
Americas role in the war in Indochina 
may seem wanton, aimless, insane, absurd. 
But actually theres a rationality to the 
whole process. When that Air Force general 
made the infamous comment during the 
TET offensive, he was speaking from an 
underlying philosophy that guides the U.S. 
war effort at every level. The destruction 
of the fabric of life in the liberated zones; 
the killing and displacing of so many peo
ple is justified by the concept that it is all
revolutionary movement can hope to gen
erate sufficient strength to come to pow
er.
In South Vietnam as a whole, a country 
which was ninety percent rural in 1961 
when Kennedy came to office, its now 
become sixty percent urban. In Cambodia 
the process is happening even more rapidly.
The Kennedy subcommittee in 1968 de
scribed the lives of the people this way. 
They sleep in alleys and streets, in court
yards and halls, even in graveyards and 
mausoleums, where bodies have been re? ALCOA
in their best interest. Their lives are 
thought to be backward, tradition bound, 
poor, lacking altogether in middle class op
portunities and possibilities. Communism is 
said to feed on this backwardness.
The road to progress, even if it begins in 
a bombed village, then goes to a refugee 
camp, is the road To the city, the road to 
urbanization, the road to a world which is 
described as modern. A name has been 
given to this process by one of those nu
merous intellectual slaves of power, Samuel 
Huntingdon, former Chairman of the Gov
ernment Department at Harvard, a regular 
government advisor on Southeast Asian 
policy, who very often has formulated pos
ition papers on American policy there.
In one, Huntingdon uses a phrase that 
names the process, as he calls it; forced 
draft urbanization,If the direct applica
tion of mechanical and conventional power 
takes place on such a massive scale. (thats 
bombing) as to produce a massive migra
tion from countryside to city, the basic 
operating assumptions underlying the Mao
ist doctrine of revolutionary war no longer 
operate. In the absent-minded way the U.S. 
in Vietnam may well have stumbled upon 
the answer to wars of national liberation. 
The effective response lies neither in the 
quest for conventional military victory nor 
in the esoteric doctrines and gimmicks of 
counter-insurgency warfare. It is instead 
forced draft urbanization and moderniza
tion which rapidly brings the country in 
question out of the phase in which a rural
moved to allow more room. Most have no 
work. The children run wild. There is little 
food, little clothing to sustain them, both 
physically and mentally. The areas that 
they live in are breeding grounds for dis
ease, for illness, and for VC recruitment.
For those Vietnamese in the American 
controlled areas, whether rural or urban, 
there is another system of domination awaiting them, once they have come into 
the camps or the cities. Now they have 
been driven, literally driven, into what can 
only be described as a Western style market 
economy.
Japanese and American corporations are 
moving rapidly into South Vietnam, espec
ially since 1969. Economists and techincians are studying that economy, the nat
ural resources, the raw materials, the labor 
force, and drafting plans for the future. 
Even though investment is a pretty high 
risk, given the war, and even though as one 
American planner says, the Anglo-Ameri
can concept of the corporation has not yet 
made much headway, these official reports 
are piling up, and they all point to at least 
a decade of economic westernization.
And all of these reports, some semi-se
cret, some not, most of them unreported in 
the press, contain the image of the Ameri
can technician and businessman turned 
missionary, showing peasants, who have 
been farmers for a thousand years, how to 
grow rice.
Before going into these reports, these 
documents, let me make one thing clear.
and thats that the South Vietnamese eco
nomy is a catastrophe. And this stems from 
being the completely artificial creation of 
the U.S.
The many signs and symptoms of the 
absurdity and artificiality of this economy 
start, first with the fact of a manpower 
crisis. South Vietnam has the fourth largest 
army in the world, seventy percent of its 
budget goes for defense. Second, inflation. 
Third, the pervasive black market and cor
ruption. Fourth, the fact that the Saigon 
government, according to these reports, 
lacks a capacity to collect taxes from its 
own people.This shows the gap between 
the government and its population.
Fifth, and most clearly, theres an im
port crisis, Because of the war, South Viet
nam, which was once an exporter of rice, 
has become a dependent importer of what 
was once its most important product.
Say it another way. In 1969 the total 
amount of consumer goods imported into 
South Vietnam, in dollar terms, equalled 
the South Vietnamese gross national pro
duct. Put it another way. Form 1965 to
1969 the exports from South Vietnam of 
goods out of the country to other coun
tries dropped form 40 million to a pitiful, 
infitesimal 15 million. While the importers 
of consumer goods, basically from Japan 
and the United States, rocketed from 250 
million dollars worth in 1965 to nearly 700 
million in the first year of the Nixon Ad
ministration.
The economic reports generally acknow
ledge this crisis. But they bury its signifi
cance in a series of glowing projections, 
which read like fantasies.
The first, shared by all reports, is that 
the war has been progressive for South 
Vietnam ese people, that its put South 
Vietnam on the road to economic capitalist 
prosperity. FORTUNE magazine, as long 
ago as 1966, was claiming that South Viet
nam, if its preserved from Communism, 
has the potential to become one of the 
richest nations in Southeast Asia.
Arthur Smithes, A CIA agent, and a 
former Director of the Budget Bureau,
claimed in his report that: The war has 
changed the situation in ways which are 
distinctly favorable to development.
Second, these reports seem to mean, 
when they talk of progress, the develop
ment of a cheap labor force with Western 
skills, because of the fact that the Vietna
mese have worked around the American 
bases for so long. The Japanese business 
study calls this factor: without a doubt the 
greatest attraction for foreign interests in
vesting in Vietnam. And Smithes urges, 
in his report, that wages be held down in 
South Vietnam to encourage investment.
Investment, private enterprise, is the 
key to all of these proposals. The tone for 
this was set by Ambassador Bunker, speak
ing February 1971, to the United States 
Chamber of Commerce, Saigon branch. In 
that speech, reported by the State Depart
ment, he cited the growing possibility of 
what he called an economic climate that 
foreign investors will find attractive. 
Smithes approves in his report of what he 
calls a necessary increase in the exploita
tion of the Vietnamese people. In the 
cities this will mean that banks, particular
ly American banks, and corporations, both 
Japanese and American, or mutually own
ed corporations, will dominate and control 
the labor market and the extension of cre
dit.
What will happen in this process is an 
even greater centralization of land holdings 
throughout South Vietnam, and a growing 
dependency on trade with the United 
States for technological gadgets, like motor 
pumps, and the other equipment necessary 
for building levies, for flood control, and 
so forth, require centralization, require 
large savings in order to purchase them and 
to gain credit. And U.S. companies, by the 
way, will build this equipment, build these 
motor pumps.
Also theres incredible hope for oil. 
Something like the gold rush to California 
is gripping American speculators in South
east Asia, with respect to oil. The Journal 
of Commerce last April, said that South 
Vietnam "May contain the richest petrolcontinued on page 11

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN - Tuesday, April 25, 1972 - Page 11
> Vietnam Continues
RVieinant
Cooles dorx-v reifte Ane 
^v^ciowrv pilf.*.
f I
, V/cll WUe
z
Arv< if itaa won't" 
fetOseioseplot?..
4
reprinted from FAIR WITNESS
continued from page 9 
Farrell, an American advisor in Plaiku, who 
said, The Montignards have to realize that 
they are expendable. They are second class 
| citizens. This captain advocated large re
settlements, followed by saturation bomb
ings. According to Mancke, in his testimo
ny, the captain compared the Montignard 
problem to the Indian problem, and said 
we could solve the Montignard problem 
like we solved the Indian problem.
All of this is very hard to summarize. 
The best single summary that Ive seen, 
I describing the process that Im talking about, was written by the psychologist Carl 
Jung, when he visited the Taos Indians in 
the 1930s in New Mexico.
He had a conversation with an Indian, 
which he recorded. The Indian said, Look 
how cruel the whites look. Their lips are 
thin, their noses are sharp, their faces are 
furrowed and distorted by folds. Their eyes 
have a staring expression. Theyre always 
seeking something. The whites always want 
something. They are always uneasy and 
restless. We do not know what they want. 
We think they are mad. They say that they 
think with their heads.
Jung asked him, Well, what do you 
think with? The Indian replied,We think 
here, indicating his heart. And then Jung 
wrote down the following in his notebook. 
For the First time in my life it seemed to 
me someone had struck for me a picture of 
the real white man. This Indian had 
touched our vulnerable spot, had unveiled
the truth to which we are blind. I felt rising 
within me like a shapeless mist something 
unknown, yet deeply familiar. And out of 
this mist, image upon image detatched it
self. First, Roman legions smashing into 
the cities of Gaul, and the keenly incised 
pictures of Julius Caesar, Scipio Africanus 
and Pompey.
I saw the Roman eagle on the North 
Sea, on the banks of the White Nile. Then I 
saw St. Augustine transmitting the Chris
tian creed to the Britons, on the tips of 
Roman lances. And Charlemagnes most 
glorious forced conversion of the heathen. 
Then the pillaging and murdering bands of 
the crusading armies. And with a secret 
stad I realized the hollowness of that old 
romanticism about the Crusades.
Then followed Columbus, Cortez, and 
other conquistadores, who with Fire, sword, 
torture, and Christianity came down upon 
even these remote pueblos, dreaming 
peacefully in the sun, their father. I saw, 
too, the peoples of the Pacific Islands, de
cimated by Fire-water, syphillis and scarlet 
fever, carried in the clothes the missionar
ies forced on them.
It was enough. What we, from our 
point of view, called missions to the heath
en has quite another face, the face of a bird 
of prey seeking, with cruel intentness, for a 
distant quarry, a face worthy of a race of 
pirates and highwaymen. All the eagles and 
other predatory creatures that adorn our 
coats of arms seem to me apt psychological 
representatives of our true nature.
continued from page 10
eum deposits in Southeast Asia. And 
other journals have said the deposits may 
rival the Middle East.
Since 1969 its been no secret that 
theres a big scramble in Southeast Asia 
over oil. There are persistent reports of 
secret negotiations between Saigon, the 
State Department, and oil companies about
oil leasing rights off the coast of South 
Vietnam. And its reported that 35 billion 
dollars has been invested by the oil com
panies, simply in research and exploration 
off the coast of South Vietnam, for the 
next ten years.
Ask yourself whether this means the 
United States is getting out of South Viet
nam. The answer of course is that the 
United States is getting in.
Who has told the American people about these reports? All these reports make 
two very inportant assumptions. The First 
is that the United States will win the war. 
The other assumption has a more ominous 
present reality to it, and that is that a root 
transformation, a cultural transformation 
in the attitudes and psyches of ihe people 
of Southeast Asia can be wrought by the 
American market system there. All of these 
reports talk about the laziness and back
wardness of the people, the necessity for 
attitudes of industry, rather than idleness.
Theres a common saying among mili
tary men in South Vietnam that if you get 
every Vietnamese male on the back of a 
Honda, the war would be brought to an 
end. What does this mean?
Another official says that we can win 
the hearts and minds of the people - ab
breviate that to WHAM, its called WHAM 
-- we can WHAM them with our Hondas 
and our motor pumps.
These statements essentially mean that 
the people driven to the cities as refugees 
will be swept in an entirely new material
istic value system, will become turned on
to Sony transistor radios, to Honda motor
bikes, to the Western consumer culture, 
and therefore brought into the American 
way of life, and will leave behind their 
traditional ways, their evil ways, their 
Communistic ways.
Samuel Huntingdon again enters here to 
provide us with a political proposal for 
actually rigging the South Vietnamese elec
toral process, which would complement 
these economic plans that Ive been talking 
about. He presented a semi-secret paper 
before the Asian Society, a CIA funded 
operation, early in 1969, which was called 
Getting Ready for Political Competition 
in South Vietnam. I guess he supposed 
that the end of the war was perhaps in 
sight, and he had read the article by his 
friend Kissinger in Foreign Affairs at the 
beginning of the Nixon Administration, 
which said that the United States is doing 
all right militarily, but it lacks a political 
structure in South Vietnam. So he pro
posed the following plan:
We should force the NLF to play the 
game - thats the game of politics by 
bombing them into it. His phrase is a little 
more euphemistic. He says, by inducing 
substantial migration to the cities.
We should control the cities and trade 
and the market and commercial system, 
and give the NLF the rest of the country
side. Because then the NLF will be reduced 
to a sect in the rural areas. And the trade 
going on in and out of those areas will 
eventually undermine the NFL appeal be
cause of what he calls the new oppor
tunities for entrepeneurship opened up by 
the American market system.
Its hard to sum all of this up. But its 
clear that the air war is not the only war 
America is carrying on in Southeast Asia. 
The real war there is not simply military, 
but its a total assault on a people, on a 
culture, and on a series of nations.
THE HORSES MOUTH
"One of the worlds richest areas is open to 
the winner of Indochina. Thats behind the grow
ing U. S. concern...tin, rubber, rice, key stra
tegic raw materials are what the war is really 
about. The U. S. sees it as an area to hold at 
any cost."
Uw' S. News and World Report, April 4, 1954,
"Why the U. S. RisksWar for Indochina: Its the
Key to Control of All Asia."
"Geographically, Vietnam stands at the hub of 
a vast population of 249 million persons...He 
who holds or has influence in Vietnam can affect 
the future of the Phillipines and Formosa to the 
East, Thailand and Burma with their huge rice 
surpluses to the West, Malaysia and Indonesia 
with their rubber, ore and tin to the South... 
Vietnam thus does not exist in a geographical 
vacuumfrom it large storehouses of wealth and 
population can be influenced and undermined."
Henry Cabot Lodge in 1965.
"If Indochina falls, Thailand is put in an 
almost impossible position. The same is true of 
Halaya with its rubber and tin. The same is 
true of Indonesia. If this whole part of South
east Asia goes under communist domination or 
communist influence, Japan, who trades and must 
trade with this area in order to exist must in
evitably be oriented toward the communist regime." 
Richard Nixon in 1953.
"PRICIPALLY ALL WARS HAVE BEEN FOUGHT FOR ECO
NOMIC REASONS. TO MAKE THEM POLITICALLY AND 
SOCIALLY COMPATIBLE IDEOLOGICAL ISSUES HAVE 
ALWAYS BEEN EVOKED."
U. S. OFFICE OF NAVAL INTELLIGENCE (1938).
reprinted from FAIR WITNESS

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-THE TARTAN - Tuesday, April 25, 1972
Architecture Show At Institute
Youth Symphony To Raise $ 
For European Excursion
The Carnegie Institutes Museum of Art 
last week debuted a new exhibition entit
led The Rise of American Architecture, 
1815-1915. This exhibition traces the de
velopment of American architecture in the 
Nineteenth Century through photographs 
and sketches.
Three threads are followed in the show, 
commercial buildings, domestic architec
ture, and city parks. Shopping arcades and 
skyscrapers are traced back through Euro
pean history to early Roman and Byzan 
tine markets and siege towers. Prime exam
ples of commercial architecture are the 
Providence, Rhode Island Arcade the Flat
iron Building of New York, and Chicagos 
famed Auditorium Building.
Planning drawings and color displays of 
Central Park in New York and Lakeshore 
Park in Chicago are featured in the park 
section, and Frank Lloyd Wrights Baker 
House and Evergreen Hamlet, near Pitts
burgh, are two of the examples from the 
domestic display.
The show also includes sections on the 
thoughtless destruction of Americas archi
tectural heritage, and on the atchitectural 
landmarks of Pittsburgh.
This excellent exhibition will be on dis
play until June 4.
Writing Profs 
Historical Novel 
To Be Published
A fragment of medieval manuscript gave 
Gladys Schmitt the first idea for her new 
novel, THE GODFORGOTTEN. A part of 
a report sent back by a papal emissary to 
his bishop, the fragment alluded to a 
monastic community cut off from the rest 
of the world by a todal wave. Over the 
years, the monks, out of contact with 
clerical rules, had taken wives and 
concubines. Since their lapse sprang from 
ignorance, the emissary gave them a 
choice: they could leave with their women, 
or put them by as the discipline of their 
Order required.
What I found most intriguing about 
the incident, says Ms. Schmitt, was its 
relevance as an existential parable. The 
community would have thought themselves 
the sole survivors, carelessly overlooked in 
the otherwise total destruction. How 
would people live in a world devoid of 
meaning and purpose? This question gives 
THE GODFORGOTTEN its shape and life.
Cecelia Holland calls the novel tremen
dously moving, and Louis Untermeyer 
says it is a profound commentary on the 
human condition. It will be published on 
May 10 by Harcourt Brace Jovanovich
Gladys Schmitt is Thomas A. Baker 
Professor of English Literature at CarnegieMellon University. She enjoys teaching and 
the contact it enables her to maintain with 
the young, and she is always willing to 
guide any would-be writer who comes to 
her for assistance, manuscript in hand.
DAVID THE KING and REMBRANDT 
and her other novels have sold over
2,000,000 copies in the United States and 
have been published in 14 other countries.
Gladys Schmitt, and her husband Simon 
Goldfield whose comments and opinions 
play an important role in shaping her work 
live in Pittsburgh. She has managed with 
remarkable skill to combine the roles of 
full-time teacher, professional novelist, and 
wife. Her hobby is creative needlework, 
especially crewel for which she makes her 
own designs. She made all fifty-two windoe 
curtains for their home by hand.
Mark down May 6, 1972, the date for 
the annual spring concert of the Pittsburgh 
Youth Symphony Orchestra, in Heinz Hall 
for the Performing Arts.
The concert will be sponsored by PPG 
Industries Foundation, and will help to 
launch the orchestra on its summer trip to 
Europe. Proceeds from this concert will 
benefit the trip, for the participation of the 
Youth Symphony Orchestra in the Inter
national Festival of Youth Orchestras at 
Lausanne, Switzerland, July 25 through 
August 6, 1972. Our Pittsburgh Orchestra 
received the prestigious invitation to play 
in the Festival, representing the United 
States. Among other countries represented 
will be Australia, Holland, Japan, South 
Africa and Yugoslavia.
May 6 promises to be an exciting even
ing. Michael Semanitzky, Music Director 
and Conductor, has planned a varied pro
gram of great works by composers Ives, 
Barber, Bartk, R. Strauss and Stravinsky. 
This is a preview of the program to be 
played at the Festival.
Featured Youth Symphony performers 
will be Concertmaster Robert Harris, play
ing Samuel Barbers Concerto for Violin 
and Orchestra, Opus 14; and duo pianists 
Charles Abramovic and Bernard Nero, and 
percussionists Michael Komrada, Oliver 
Ragsdale and Samuel Bacco will play Bartoks Sonata for Two Pianos and Percuss
ion.
The Pittsburgh Youth Symphone Or
chestra, 112 members strong, is recognized 
in music circles as one of the most impor
tant training orchsetras in the country, and 
most of the young people in the orchestra, 
who live in Pittsburgh and Western Penn
sylvania, are planning careers in music.
Mrs. Clifford S. Heinz is president of the 
Pittsburgh Youth Symphony Association 
and Mrs. Lincoln Maazel is Managing Direc
tor.
Tickets for the May 6 benefit perfor
mance are priced at $5.00, $4.00 and 
$3.00. Tickets are available at the Heinz 
Hall box office or at ticket counters in 
Kaufmanns, Gimbels, Hornes, Pitt Stu
dent Union. If you prefer to order by mail, 
send your check, payable to Pittsburgh 
Youth Symphony, with a self-addressed 
stamped envelope to: Pittsburgh Youth 
Symphony, Heinz Hall for the Performing 
Arts, 600 Penn Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
15222.
Orchestra 
Presents 
New Music
Total Art is here! A new concept in 
music, never attempted before, is now be
ing performed by the Pennsylvania Orches
tra. Maurice Kaplow, conductor and direc
tor of the program visited CMU to discuss 
the purposes and achievements of his com
pany. The orchestra was formed a year ago 
to bridge the gap between what symphony 
orchestras are doing and what is really 
needed today in music and theater. This 
exciting and innovative show uses such ma
terials as: original 13th century poetry ar
ranged in rock style, slides, films, kinetic 
light projection, kinetic sculpture-setting, 
electronic instruments and theatrical exper
ience.
The 1971-72 series entitled Sights and 
Sounds of Seven Centuries, covers a span 
of mediaval through modern music.
Established concert goers and rock pa
trons alike have made this unique total 
experience successful although it may be 
shocking to the uninitiated.
The Pennsylvania Orchestra will make 
its Pittsburgh debut at Heinz Hall, May 1 at 
8:30. Tickets may be purchased through 
Heinz Hall.
OAKLAND HARDWARE & TOY CO.
CMU98 Convenient Headquarter*
for Hardwire
* Doslt Lamps * Koy Strvki ** Artist Brush*
* Hot Platts * Poster Paints ? School Suppfios
**tNf*Sf *ttt OAKLAND PfcM* Sll<OtSS
Pianist 
At Y-IKC
Murray Perahia, the musicians pianist, 
will appear at the Y-ICK Music Societys 
final concert of the 1971-72 season. He 
will perform on Wednesday, April 26 at 
8:15 pm. at the Oakland branch of the 
Y-ICK, 315 South Bellefield Ave. Return
ing by popular request after captivating Y 
audiences twice during the 69-70 season, 
Mr. Perahia will play the D minor Sonata 
of Beethoven, Chopins A flat Polonaise 
and F minor Ballads, and the Sonata in B 
minor by Liszt.
Twenty-five year old Murray Perahia is 
something of a rarity among pianists who 
have made their way up into the concert 
world. He has never entered a major con
test. At the Mannes College of Music he 
majored in conducting rather than piano, 
and he has appeared more often in cham
ber music concerts than as a soloist.
Although he didnt quite walk into his 
career backwards, he did reverse the tradi
tional plan whereby an outstanding young 
pianist establishes himself first as a soloist 
and then moves on to conducting and 
chamber music careers.
Perahia is a teaching assistant to Rudolf 
Serkin and Mieczyslaw Horszowski at the 
Curtis Institute of Music and is a faculty 
member at the Mannes College. Recently 
Mr. Perehia was issued a Ford Foundation 
grant to commission a work for perfor
mance by himself, whether it be a solo 
piece, chamber music or a concerto. During 
the past month, he was one of the busiest 
pianists in New York, playing a number of 
times with the New York Philharmonic, 
the Musica Aeterna Orcheatra and in solo 
recital.
After one of these performances Robert 
Sherman wrote in the N.Y. Times There 
was none of the steely glitter we have come 
to expect from so many young pianists; 
rather, it was all warmth and lyricism, with 
carefully shaded dynamics, and an elegant 
feel. Pittsburgh Post Gazette critic, Don
ald Steinfirst, reviewing Perahias debut 
concerr for the Y-ICK in 1969 prophetical
ly worte, Look for Murray Perahia in the 
future. Critics use the word genius very 
rarely and with trepidation but I have a 
strong suspicion we might have heard the 
first inklings of it last night.
Tickets may be purchased at the box 
office the night of the concert or by calling 
521-8010.
FREE PROFESSIONAL 
DRAFT COUNSELING
B'NAI B'RITH HILLEL FOUNDATION 
315 South 1*1 lefield Avwtw*
3rd Floor
Every Tuesday Evening
7:00 to 9:00 p.m.
621-8875

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN - Tuesday, April 25, 1972 - Page 13
caMPTRAILS - BLACKS- DENALI-THAVN/-
HEcReationAI equipment i^c.-primus
EUREKA TENT>
(SADZOOkS - 
MOUfJTAlM PROFIGER MTN 
TRAIL TECH
f-'OAM PRODUCTS 
STCBCO - FAR west 
.TUSTRjrF- MAlLO**S DCIWII ISMr*
gpAcoEMAcft
To Co 
Dollars
AFridmmrmXhJlVES CLIH$)H6 ? CAVINGUB&ER Rtrrj 
Pohc tent6+TMBfioM
ft.0-wc*zit- Two BLOCK?L.ruuotl. Clluff i ^ w  9
WAKD F5 
7*om aClJ.MuETC
5VtA] -EF r*WP MQItt <?A/ OtPfZ______"/> x \ ___
HOURS'. TUfS-Fi?/ 1PM ngr* SAV v-s

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14-THE TARTAN - Tuesday, April 25, 1972
Student Answers Differ From Alumni
A CMU math class under the direction 
of Dr. John Wolfe recently submitted to 
students a survey identical with the one 
given to parents and alumni. The results, 
based on 150 responses, are here compared 
with the results from parents and alumni. 
(Student responses are above those com
piled by ALUMNI NEWS.)
a. Place students as voting members on the 
Board of Trustees.
68 percent agree; 4 percent neutral; 24 
percent disagree
44 percent agree; 49 percent disagree
b. Commit substantial sums of money to 
educational programs for Blacks and other 
minority groups here at CMU.
52 percent agree; 2 percent neutral; 44 
percent disagree
30 percent agree; 60 percent disagree
c. Accept defense or war oriented re
search in campus facilities.
34 percent agree; 10 percent neutral; 56 
percent disagree
61 percent agree; 26 percent disagree
d. Rule against a pre-election campus recess 
aimed at increased student involvement in 
State and National elections.
30 percent agree; 8 percent neutral; 62 
percent disagree
52 percent agree; 36 percent disagree
e. Deliberately not call police on campus 
during a demonstration in which minor 
damage is caused to a campus facility.
62 percent agree; 8 percent neutral; 30 
percent disagree
32 percent agree; 62 percent disagree
2a. Students on most US campuses have 
heard more liberal than conservative 
points of view from both faculty and in
vited speakers.
64 percent agree; 18 percent neutral; 14 
percent disagree
76 percent agree; 9 percent disagree
b. CMU is fulfilling its obligations to re
spond responsibly to drug use within the 
campus community
30 percent agree; 22 percent neutral; 44
Food Service 
Announces 
New Policies
Continental and do-it-yourself break
fasts will be available at Morewood Gar
dens Cafeteria next semester, Monday 
through Friday. Food service director 
George Prillman also announced that books 
of meal tickets will be sold to students who 
are not on contract.
Prillman claims that this years expected 
surplus due to the closing of Morewood on 
weekends and breakfasts will cover next 
years costs rise without raises in board 
fees.
The new programs are attempts to com
ply with numerous requests of food service 
made by students. The do-it-yourself 
breakfast will allow students to make their 
own eggs and bacon on a grill that will be 
moved out to the food line. Prillman indi
cates that the success of the do-it-yourself 
sandwiches and salads at Morewood make 
success of a similar breakfast probable.
The books will be sold in $10 and $20 
denominations. Tickets will be redeemable 
at all campus cafeterias and the Tartan 
Grill. They will be distributed at the Food 
Service Office and may be bought on cre
dit, Food Service sending out bills month
ly.
lMHpFeod mw uewG" 
y mPeC mw imawGgGaCG
percent disagree
14 percent agree; 9 percent disagree
c.At many institutions, including CMU, it 
appears that many decisions are made to 
placate a minority at the expense of the 
majority.
48 percent agree; 18 percent neutral; 34 
percent disagree
74 percent agree; 13 percent disagree
d. Student Publications should be kept un
der control by the Administration
4 percent agree; 2 percent neutral; 92 per
cent disagree!
41 percent agree; 51 percent disagree
3a. The students on the campuses today 
care little about the moral standards es
tablished by society.
50 percent agree; 10 percent neutral; 38 
percent disagree
58 percent agree; 34 percent disagree
b. Students are being used extensively by 
those groups wishing to overthrow our gov
ernment.
12 percent agree; 16 percent neutral; 72 
percent disagree
60 percent agree; 31 percent disagree
c.Administrators on cortege campuses have 
allowed students to assume too much pow
er.
10 percent agree; 8 percent neutral; 80 
percent disagree
61 percent agree; 29 percent disagree
d. Fewer than five percent of students take 
part in violent campus disruption.
80 percent agree; 16 percent neutral; 4 
percent disagree
78 percent agree; 7 percent disagree
NORML Plans 
Pot Offensive 
Convention
As a part of the grassroots movement to 
legalize pot, the National Organization for 
the Reform of Marijuana Laws (NORML), 
is holding a heady conference in the coun
tryside, a stones throw from Washington
D.C. to plan strategy for the 1972-73 cam
pus pot offensive. The week-end confer
ence, planned for early August, is free to 
all interested persons, with food and music 
provided.
The meeting is intended to bring toget
her the ideas of persons who are now work
ing or who are interested in working for 
pot reform, NORML director Keith Stroup 
said.
We need to put our heads together, 
Stroup continued,so that those projects 
that worked in one community can be 
transferred to other communities. Next 
year we hope to have working forces in 
every state and strong movements on the 
campuses. And with the Presidential Com
missions report on marijuana still fresh in 
peoples minds, the time is ripe for some 
heavy pressure.
Stroup said the conference will be made 
up of workshops concentrating on topics 
that have been suggested by the partici
pants. Thats why it is essential, he 
said,that people write us with their ideas. 
Its a peoples meeting so the program will 
be planned by its participants. NORML is 
simply the glue to keep it together.
In addition, members of NORMLs ad
visory board will be on hand to discuss 
current medical and legal studies, as well as 
provide up to date statistics and reports.
Interested persons should write to 
NORML Conference, 1237 22nd Street, 
N.W., Washington, D.C. 20037 and include 
suggestions for speeding up pot reform.
Technology, Society and the Quality 
of Life will be the theme of the 12th 
annual Carnegie Conference to be held in 
the Skibo Ballroom, CMU, on Saturday 
April 29.
Scheduled for the all-day parley will be 
lecturers and panelists drawn from the 
CMU faculty who will clarify alternatives 
and approaches in the consideration of our 
environmental problems. Conference activ
ities aree slated from 9 am to 5 pm.
The speaker for the opening session of 
the conference will be William W. Cooper, 
dean of the School of Urban and Public 
Affairs (SUPA) at CMU, whose subject will 
be Keeping Score on the Quality of Life: 
an examination of methods for measuring 
and evaluating the factors that comprise 
our environment.
Later in the morning Herbert L. Toor, 
dean of the Carnegie Institute of Technolo
gy (CIT) will discuss The Costs and Bene
fits of Technology. Following his talk, a 
panel of four CMU faculty members will 
consider the specific areas of energy, trans
portation and environmental needs also 
from a cost/benefit standpoint. Members 
of the panel will be Stanley Angrist, profes
sor of Mechanical Engineering; Richard 
Rice, professor of transportation engineer
ing; Robert Dunlap, assistant professor of 
metallurgy and materials science; and Gor
don Lewis, head of social relations.
Following lunch, the speaker will be 
Norman J. Johnson, director of urban 
systems in SUPA. His topic will be Citi
zens Information, Control and Participa
tion in a Technologically Oriented Socie
ty, an examination of the human factor in 
relation to a rapidly changing technological 
environment.
Joseph M. Ballay, head of the depart
ment of design, will speak on the subject, 
The Dichotomy Nobody Wanted. Mr. 
Ballay feels that traditional education has 
driven a wedge between technology and 
the problems of life, and that this has had 
the effect of separating those who create 
our material environment from those who 
are subjected to this environment.
The final speaker of the day will be 
Herbert A. Simon, R.K. Mellon Professor 
of Computer Science and Psychology at 
the University. In presenting hsi thoughts 
on An Intelligent Social Policy Toward 
Science and Technology, Dr. Simon will 
point out the urgent need for new techno
logical alternatives to solve major human 
and social problems, and will discuss meth
ods of providing and evaluating these alter- ( 
natives more effectively.
For reservations or additional details, 
write Alumni Office, CMU, 5000 Forbes 
Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213.
cinderthistle hand knitting yams
812 ivy itrt shadysld*
EUROPE 72
FLY TOTHEEUROPEANCITY OF YOUR CHOICE 
ON AIRLINES SUCH AS PAN AM KLM TIA
Departing & Returning Daily
Office Open from 
10:00 a.m. To 10:00 p.m
WE HAV THE MOST COMPl ETE EUROPEAN TRAVEL PROGRAM
CAR LEASING RENTALS 1 PURCHASING 
INTRA-EUROPEAN STUDENT FLIGHTS 
EURAIL PASSES  TOURS ETC.
NATIONAL STUDENT TRAVEL SERVICES5938 RAVENNA ST., PGH., PA.
(412) 362-1991
Philip Pelusi Hair Design
You're on your way to that 
great look with your first 
hair cut from the talented 
scissors you find only at 
Philip Pelusi 
Ha^r Design. No razor 
will split your ends here: 
your hair gets blunt-edged 
scissors cutting . . . plus a 
sculptured fit to your head. 
(We've got private quarters 
for you guys!)
Philip Pelusi Hair Design 
1814 Murray Avenue, 
Squirrel Hill 
Phone. 421-4500, 521-1200

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN - Tuesday, April 25, 1972 - Page 15
Faculty Cited ForHonor art) 'Degrees Zo 
fie Qiven At Commencement
J. Erik Jonsson, honorary chairman of 
the board of Texas Instruments Incorpor
ated and the former mayor of Dallas, wull 
deliver the Commencement Address at 
CMUs 75th Annual Commencement Exer
cises Monday, May 15 at 10 a.m. on the 
Mall in front of the College of Fine Arts.
Along with Mr. Jonsson, who will re
ceive an honorary Doctor of Laws degree, 
four other distinquished Americans will re
ceive honorary degrees, Theyare Dr. Ed
ward E. David Jr., science advisor to the 
President, Doctor of Science; William Mere
dith, poet and professor of Englsih, Doctor 
of HUmane Letters; Dr. Mina Rees, mathe
matician and educator, Doctor of Science; 
and Ms. Dorothy Maynor, concert soprano 
and founder of The Harlem School of the 
Arts, Doctor of Fine Arts.
There are 1,253 candidates for degrees, 
including 730 bachelor, 318 master, and 
205 doctoral candidates.
In the event of rain, the traditional out
door ceremony will be moved to the Syria 
Mosque in Oakland at 10:30 a.m.
As mayor of Dallas 1964-71, Mr. Jons
son initiated a world heralded citizen part
icipation program, Goals for Dallas which 
directly engaged large numbers of Dallas 
citizens in the formation of basic aims and 
priorities for the city,and resulted in rapid 
voter approval of a multimillion dollar ca
pital improvements program. Dr. David 
became science advisor to the President 
and director of the Office of Science and 
Technology in September, 1970. Prior to 
this appointment he was executive director 
of research for the Communication Priniciples Division of the Bell Telephone Labs, 
and professor of electrical engineering at 
Stevens Institute of Technology. He is the 
co-author of two books, Mans World of 
Sound and Waves and the Ear.
William Meredith, a professor of English 
at Connecticut College, is one of the na
tions outstanding poets. The most recent 
of his five volumes of lyrics, Barth Walk, 
earned him the Van Wyck Brooks Award in
1971.
In 1970, Mr. Meredith was the first wri
ter in residence at Pittsburghs Internation
al Poetry Forum, where he worked with 
students from CMU and the five other Pitt
sburgh colleges and universities. Dr. 
Reese, as well as being President of the 
Graduate School and University Center of
the City University of New York (CUNY), 
is also retiring president and chairwoman 
of the board of directors of the American 
Association for the Advancement of 
Science. In the forefront of developments 
in American mathematical sciences for the 
past thirty years, she was the recipient in 
1962 of the first Award for Distinquished 
Service to Mathematics from the Mathema
tical Association of America. Dr. Rees 
contributions to the deployment of the 
nations mathematicians in World War II 
through her work in the Office of Scien
tific Research and Development earned her 
the Presidents Certificate of Merit and the 
British Medal for Service in the Cause of 
Freedom.
Within a short time after her Town Hall 
debut in New York in 1939, Dorothy May
nor was one of the leading singers in the 
United States. She received the 1940 Town 
Hall Endowment Series Award for the out
standing performance of the year of her 
debut. Over the next quarter century the 
soprano appeared with virtually every 
major orchestra and conductor in the 
United States, Canada, Europe, South 
America and Australia. Retiring from her 
concert career, she founded The Harlem 
School of the Arts, the first such school in 
Harlme. In the first year, 1965, she was the 
sole teacher and manager, but today she is 
the executive director of a school that 
serves some 600 Harlem pupils and is 
staffed by 40 professional teachers.
FOR FREE
Pregnancy 
CounselingIn 
PITTSBURGH
Cod
422-7900
Women's Medico! Assistance
a non-profit organization
Overdue Books
Reprinted from FOCUS
The circulation staffs in both the Hunt 
Library and in the Engineering and Science 
Library, Science Hall, are in the process of 
sending reminders to members of the facul
ty for books charged out to them, includ
ing a request that they be returned early 
next month.
This procedure, in the past, has someLibrary Anti -Theft 
System Successful
A recent evaluation of the Hunt and 
Science Libraries 3M Book Theft Detec
tion System indicates that the system has 
proved quite successful.
A survey of almost 4500 recent acquisi
tions was made prior to installation of the 
system, and revealed that over 10 percent 
of these wdre missing. A similar survey, 
made last summer, revealed the current 
rate to be below 2 per cent.
The librarians also have noted a decrease 
in the need for tracer forms, and have, 
with faculty, been able to reduce the num
ber of volumes on reserve lists. It was 
noted by Kenneth Fagerhaugh, Director of 
the Libraries, that the system had been 
well accepted by the University communi
ty, and not viewed as a challenge.
A prime advantage of the system is that 
the detction devices in the volumes are 
very difficult to notice. This worked to the 
disadvantage of one individual who recent
ly attempted to illegally remove from the 
library a chapter torn from a book. The 
detection device was in the pages he tore 
out, however, and he was apprehended. 
The University Disciplinary Committee 
viewed the mutilation of University proper
ty very dimly and fined the party 120 
clock hours of work to CMU.
times seemed to be an exercise in futility 
because of the poor response on the part of 
some members of the faculty. A survey of 
circulation last month turned up the fol
lowing facts: 429 volumes have been held 
by 43 faculty members for more than two 
years. Included in this number are 55 vol
umes which have been out more than five 
years.
While no restrictions have been placed 
on the number of volumes individuals may 
have, it is hard to understand how anyone 
can profitably use over 50 volumes effec
tively for more than an academic session. It 
simply resulty in the depletion of the col
lection in the stacks in certain subject areas 
so that other members of the library com
munity are deprived of their use.
If some of the standard and needed tit
les are not returned this semester it will be 
necessary to order replacements and charge 
the costs against the already too small 
departmental allocations for monographs.
WHY START...!?! 
? AT THE BOTTOM!
when you can start EXECUTIVE ROW 
as a pilot or navigator in the . . .
. . . UNITED STATES AIR FORCE . . .
? good pay
? steady advancement 
? personal satisfaction
, . . ARE JUST A FEW BENEFITS . . . 
open to you as a commisioned offi
cer on the Aerospace team. For the 
details:... CONTACT:
SGT. DICK ALLEN ... AT 644-5837
Together Vs)
1723 MURRAY AVENUE 
3918 FORBES AVENUE

---------------------------------------------------

/THE TARTAN - Tuesday, April 25, 1972
Committee Examines SAC's
Jon Manon
The Faculty Senate Standing Commit
tee on Student Advisory Committees has 
released a thirteen page report detailing 
their recent study of the structure and 
function of the departmental SACs. The 
Student Advisory Committees, Descen
dants of a Faculty Senate resolution adop
ted in January 1969, were originally con
ceived as functioning to enlighten the 
faculty senators about the needs and 
wishes of the students within their respect
ive departments. However, off of paper, 
the SACs have principally evolved into 
intradepartmental advisory groups, directly 
initiating changes within the various de
partments rather than serving as the faculty 
senators liasons with the student body. 
The Faculty Senate Standing Committee 
on SACs, chaired by Mechanical Engin
eering Assistant Professor Clive L. Dym, 
Psychology and Education Dean and 
Associate Professor John R. Hayes, and 
student Terri Zaluska, was formed last year 
to evaluate the successes and failures of the 
SAC mechanism as constituted.
To conduct this evaluation, questionaires probing the functioning of the various 
SACs were sent to 37 elected faculty sen
ators (of which 76% were returned) and to 
24 academic department heads (of which 
71% were returned) during the fall semes
ter. Early in the spring, similar questionaires were distributed to 105 student SAC 
members with a return rate of 56%. Fin
ally, in March, several meetings were held 
between selected student representatives
and the Faculty Standing Committee.
In its report distributed several weeks 
ago, the Standing Committee listed among 
its principal findings,that: Departmental 
matters continue to be the principal con
cern of SACs. Curriculum, course content, 
and teacher evaluation are the subject areas 
most often discussed. Campus-wide matters 
and affairs of the Faculty Senate receive 
little or no attention, nor are students gen
erally aware of Senate activities or of the 
role of their faculty members in it.
The Committee found that Faculty 
senators, students, and department heads 
alike agree that SACs are a valuable and 
worthwhile activity. Discussions are for the 
most part free and open, and faculty are 
typically receptive to student input. In 
many cases suggestions arising from the 
SAC have led to some change within the 
departments. It is noted, however, that 
Despite general satisfaction with present 
SAC arrangements .... there have been in
stances of strong dissatisfaction among 
some student members .... and suggested 
that widespread differences in the struc
ture of SACs in regard to the number of 
students, method of selection, faculty part
icipation, communication with constit
uencies, and frequency of meeting ... 
appear to represent the major reasons for 
much of the existing unhappiness with 
SACs.
Encouraged by their findings, the 
Standing Committee strongly endorses the 
system of Student Advisory Committees as 
a valuable means of providing studentfaculty communication, and strongly urges
continued efforts to develop their effectiv
eness in departments throughout the cam
pus. While recommending a more thor
ough interchange between SAC student 
members and faculty senators, the Stand
ing Committee on SACs declared that 
The primary role of SACs should con
tinue to be the communication and discuss
ion of matters relating to departmental 
policy and decisions.
Concluding that a more well-structured 
model for the Student Advisory Commit
tee might well help oversome some of the 
present difficulties, the Faculty Standing 
Committee suggested some guidelines for 
structural standardization; recommending, 
among other things, that Each SAC 
should consist of at least one but prefer
ably two students from each of the four 
undergraduate classes, as well as two grad
uate students, the student members to be 
elected by their class mates in the first 
weeks of the fall semester. Additionally,
the report proposed that faculty represent
atives to the SACs include the department 
head, the elected faculty senators, and any 
departmental faculty members serving on 
the Educational or Policy or the Student 
Affairs Councils of the Faculty Senate.
The Standing Committee recommended 
that SAC meetings should be scheduled 
on at least a monthly basis, or more fre
quently as each group sees fit. Where poss
ible, the agenda of these meetings should 
be publicized in advance so that other stu
dents would have the opportunity to pro
vide input on matters that concern them. 
Finally, the Faculty Standing Committee 
on SACs admonished that Better mech
anisms for communicating with student 
constituencies should be developed and im
plemented, and proposed several such 
mechanisms including brief oral presenta
tions by SAC representatives in their 
classes, and the general distribution of SAC 
meeting minutes.
Campus Camera Headquarters
FOR AU YOUR 
PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS
WE RENT AND 
REPAIR TYPEWRITERS
CAMERA IXCHAN6E
3711 FORKS AVENUE
Student Discount om Most Items: 
Phon: 683-211
PETER BOYLE I
NOW AVAILABLE ONLY TO VTN AUDIENCES
groove 
tube
N.Y. Times
The revenge of the McLuhan generation. 
6o and see Groove Tube!"
Life Magazine:
Reduces audiences to aching laughter.
Lewid, imaginative, preposterously lyrical."
Look Magazine
A wicked and hilarious lampoon of TV programs."
STAFF CAFETERIA
Fort Bragg Follies Groove Tube
Tues., Thurs., Sat. Wed., Fri., Sun.
Showings--8:00 and 10:0075c Admission.
