February 22, 1972, Volume 72/Number 5
John Finlator, recently retired Deputy 
Director of the Federal Bureau of Narco
tics and Dangerous Drugs, today said he 
strongly favors the immediate decriminal
ization of marijuana, and predicts eventual 
legalization. And until this is done, Fin
lator said, he doubts that any of our efforts 
to combat the heroin problem in this 
country, or any other serious drug abuse 
problems can be effective.
Mr. Finlator, age 60, retired from his 
number two position with the Bureau of 
Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs on January 
1, 1972. Formerly Director of the Bureau 
of Drug Abuse Control in the Department 
of Health, Education and Welfare, Mr. Fin
lator has spent thirty-six years in govern
ment service. He is currently writing a 
book to be published by Simon and 
Schuster, about the drug abuse problem, 
and is a private industrial consultant.
In announcing his views, Mr. Finlator 
stated he was joing the Advisory Board of 
NORML (the National Organization for the 
Reform of Marijuana laws) and planned to 
take an active role over the next several 
months in getting the current laws 
changed. NOEML is a Washington, DCbased lobby which takes the position that 
criminal penalties for the use of marijuana 
are inappropriate and unjustified, and ar
gues for a governmentally-controlled sys
tem similar to that used for alcohol.
The following is a statement by Mr. 
Finlator on this subject:
First, I have learned through many 
years of experience that repressive criminal 
laws will never solve our drug abuse pro
blems. In the 1930s, when marijuana was 
first made illegal, there were less than
50,000 smokers in the whole country. Yet 
today, after four decades of incredibly 
harsh penalties, the Marijuana Commission 
tells us that 24 million Americans, in
cluding 15% of the population over 12 
years of age, have smoked marijuana. Re
gardless of ones views towards marijuana, 
the ineffectiveness of the criminal laws as a 
deterrent to use is astounding. Meanwhile, 
we have ruined the careers and lives of 
hundreds of thousands of otherwise lawabiding citizens by needlessly subjecting 
them to the ramifications of being defined 
criminal.
Secondly, I believe that society must 
accept the fact that there is such a thing as 
recreational use of drugs. In other words, 
some people use drugs not for medical use 
or to relieve pain, but simply because it is 
enjoyable. Obviously, I dont believe that 
people should be permitted indescriminate 
use of all drugs. Many have such a dele
terious effect both on (he user and on 
society as a whole as to preclude their use. 
But drugs such as cigarettes, alcohol and 
marijuana are different. Their potential for 
harm is limited, and falls within that area 
which the people of this country have ap
parently decided is acceptable. We may dis
courage their use, as is currently the prac
tice for cigarette smoking, and I support 
these efforts. Bm who would seriously sugcontinued on pg. 16
McGovern
The registration deadline for those 
people wishing to vote in the Pennsylvania 
Presidential Primary is March 6. On March 
1 there will be a registration drive on the 
CMU Campus at the Student Art Gallery at 
Forbes and Margaret Morrison Ave. Any 
student wishing to vote in the Primary can 
reigster at this time, and any questions 
involving residency requirements can be an
swered at theStudent Art Gallery on March 
1.
Senator George McGovern will be run
ning in the Pennsylvania Primary and he 
has a full slate of delegates running in 
Pennsylvania. This delegation is comprised 
50% of men and 50% women-of which 20% 
of the total delegation is black. This gives 
Senator McGovern the most representative 
delegation of all the candidates in the Pri
mary.
Both CMU and Pitt are situated in the 
43rd senatorial district, and as such could 
provide the impetus to elect the McGovern 
delegates. In fact a big turn out from the 
campuses in support of McGovern could 
guarantee the election of these delegates.
A CMU student, Donna LaPietra, is run
ning as a McGovern delegate in the 44the 
senatorial district, the East Hills area. She 
also can use any student support from 
people registered in that district. This 
points out another characteristic of the 
McGovern delegates, their youth.
Any students wishing to work for 
McGovern before the primary can do so by 
contacting McGovern Headquarters at 229 
N. Craig, 683-8300, or contact Dave 
Stobbe at 687-1348. People are needed to 
go to New Hampshire before that primary, 
the weekends of February 25 and March 3. 
Also there is great deal to be done in Penn
sylvania before the primary in April.
SPRING CARNIVAL
On April 20, 21, and 22, Spring Carnival 
will once again transform CMU from a 
place of intense intellectual endeavor to 
one of fun, games, and fiery competition.
As in the past, leading the events of the 
weekend are the Midway and the Sweep
stakes Buggy Races. The Midway will be 
essentially the same as before, featuring 
rides, games, food, and constant music or 
live entertainment. For the first time, how
ever, a large entrance way will be con
structed to replace the sawhorses which 
mark the end of the Skibo parking lot and 
the beginning of the Midway.
To the viewer of Sweepstakes, the races 
will appear unchanged. However, much 
time and effort has been expended by the 
Sweepstakes committee, the competing 
groups, and administration representatives 
in an effort to make the races much safer 
and hopefully more popular. Although 
spectators ot Sweepstakes will not notice 
the changes, this years buggies are much 
safer versions of past vehicles.
In an effort to interest and involve in 
Carnival as many people as possible, a wide 
spectrum of old and new events are being 
planned. They include a fireworks display 
continued on pg 16
NESTLE
Nestle: More Than a Candy Company. 
Nestle is a Swiss owned corporation with 
200 factories in 39 countries. They are the 
worlds third largest packaged foods distri
butor, and along with Unilever Co., control 
100% of the packaged food market in 
much of Europe. They are Europes largest 
coffee producer and control 18% of the 
U.S. market. Besides being the largest ins
tant tea and coffee producer in the U.S. 
they have many other diversified opera
tions such as a dairy complex in Thailand 
and a holding company incorporated in 
Panama which distributes food throughout 
Central America.
Vineyard workers at Nestle owned (Berringer Bros.) wineries face some of the 
most deplorable living and working condi
tions in the country. The labor camps in 
which Berringer Bros, families are forced to 
live were recently condemned as unfit for 
human habitation, yet Nestle (which pro
fits millions in the U.S. alone) has yet to 
improve the conditions of their workers. 
Nestles workers desperately seek the pro
tection of a union contract, such as those 
negotiated between the United Farm Work
ers and most of Californias wine industry. 
Because a strike would mean a certain loss 
of jobs, and because Nestle has shown con
tinual bad faith in denying their workers 
the right to improve their conditions, Nes
tles workers are presently asking con
sumers across the country to boycott all 
Nestle products.
P&S
The Commission for the Needs and Sta
tus of Women uncovered some interesting 
statistics, particularly in the area of compa
rative pay scales for men and women. The 
average salary for a male full professor is 
approximately $20,000, for a female, ap
proximately $15,000. The average salary 
for a full professor in the College of Fine 
Artshang on to your bicycle seats-is 
$13,600!
This disparity is only one of the prob
lems which the Department of Paintin&and 
Sculpture plans to resolve. Contrary to 
what Dr. Schatz said about CFA in a 
speech before the Faculty Senate, the Fine 
Arts program is far from being a bright 
jewel. The potential is there, but it is still 
in the rough. P&S, through study done by 
cooperative efforts of its Student Advisory 
Committee and faculty, has developed a 
departmental plan for the purpose of 
(providing) an educational environment 
composed of excellent students, a compe
tent faculty, and a relevant program sup
ported by appropriate space, facilities, re
sources, and equipment.
The departmental plan states simply the 
needs in each area of Painting and Sculp
ture, from photographic equipment to vital 
instruction materials, much needed but in 
woefully short supply, due to lack of ne
cessary funds.
Copies of this plan are available to all 
interested people, and can be found in the 
Curriculum Center, third floor. Fine Arts 
Building.
ECO
Observing that we are in an era of Environmental awakening, President Nixon 
has called for the US to join in a responsi
ble partnership with nature in his third 
annual Environmental Message to Congress.
The President noted that in last years 
environmental message, an extensive list of 
proposals had been presented to the Con
gress. Last year was, quite properly, a 
year of consideration of these measures by 
the Congress, he said. I urge, however, 
that this be a year of action on all of them 
so that we can move on from intention to 
accomplishment in the important needs 
they address.
The most significant of his 18 specific 
proposals is a tax on sulfur emitted into 
the air by industry. This is the first tax ever 
directly levied against polluters.
Labeling wetlands, especially estuary 
areas along the coasts, environmentally 
critical areas, the President asked Con
gress to strip certain tax benefits from in
dustries located in wetlands.
He also moved to protect Americas 
wildlife. Congress was asked to make it 
easier for new species to be added to the 
Endangered Wildlife list. Proposed legisla
tion would make it a federal offense to kill 
any animal on that list.
President Nixon announced a complete 
ban on the use of poisions for the control 
of predators by any federal agency or on 
any federal land. He also announced a ban 
on federal use of chemical pesticides.
On a more local level, he announced a 
new campaign by the federal government 
to help eliminate the danger of lead paint 
poisoning in the inner city.
A new program for research would look 
into new technologies for producing clean 
energy, as well as in the areas of noise 
pollution from airplanes and street traffic, 
the effects of air pollution on health, and 
methods for improved air pollution 
monitoring.
TARTAN READERS:
The men at Western Penitentiary are in 
great need of good reading material and 
texts for our library. Black literature is 
especially needed. Any books that you can 
contribute to our library will be greatly 
appreciated by all the men. You can leave 
the books at the TARTAN office, room 50 
Skibo at almost any time of day, or night.
Please help us to help ourselves. The 
Library Staff of Western Penn.
The TARTAN is now publishing on 
Tuesday. This means that all ads must be in 
the TARTAN office no later than noon on 
Thursday before publication. Announce
ments must be received by Wednesday 
noon; copy must be received by Thursday 
noon at the latest. We hope this will enable 
us to serve the campus community better, 
and to help Ds cover campus events more 
thoroughly. We hope this has not caused 
anyone any inconvenience. If so, the staff 
of the TARTAN apologises. Thanks.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2  Tartan, Tuesday, February 22, 1972
editors note
From beneath the wave of apathy at CMU, a group has emerged with 
the potential for becoming the most effective organization this campus 
has ever sponsored. The group calls itself WP-PIRG, Western Pennsylvania 
Public Interest Research Group, an independent, non-partisan agancy 
based on Ralph Naders Washington research organization.
If supported, PIRG has the ability to provide a sorely needed function 
in the university and in the community at large. The groups purpose is to 
sponsor student research into social problems  environmental quality, 
consumer protection, health care, discrimination, landlord/tenant relation
ships. Research can be coordinated with course work, or treated as 
independent study projects. This will allow students to devote the time 
required to study a problem thoroughly, and be equipped to propose 
alternative solutions. It will add a dimension often lacking in university 
education, the application of "classroom knowledge to real social prob
lems. PIRG researchers will be working with professionals in their fields  
a truly invaluable experience.
Student proposals will be presented to an advisory board of faculty and 
community professionals who will assist in making alternative proposals 
into concrete action projects. In this way, PIRG will not be a self-contain
ed group of students who research social problems and congratulate each 
other on their innovative ideas. They will be attempting to propose 
legislative action to implement their ideas.
But PIRG will be helpless without a strong and reliable financial 
backing. It can not function as a student government organization on a 
student government budget. Thus, the Friends of PIRG have proposed the 
negative check-off system as a method of funding. Unless crossed off a 
students bill, each student will pay $2 per semester to support PIRG 
research. PIRG plans to assume all administrative expense incurred in the 
collection, using the university in effect as a collection agency. Refunds 
will be made to students who pay the fee and then change their minds.
/ support PIRGs petition for recognition and financial support through 
the negative check-off system. It is imperative that PIRG be established as 
an independent organization with responsibility to no administrative 
group other than its own student elected board of directors. It is only 
through this financial autonomy that PIRG can function as a non-partisan 
agency and be effective in all areas of change. Unlike other organizations 
functioning on student government funds, financial support of PIRG will 
be the voluntary choice of each student.
Perhaps PIRG will be successful in accomplishing what no other cam
pus organization has been able to do  create a social conscience at CMU, 
and give students a way of acting on their beliefs.
If you havent signed PIRGs petition, you ought to give it a second 
thought.
Letters:
Editor:
You can help change Pennsylvanias 
present restrictive abortion law. Testimony 
is invited by the new 23 woman commis
sion appointed by the governor to recom
mend changes in the law.
Go to the hearings. You will hear elo
quent and authoritative testimony on all 
aspects of this compelling issue. Open hear
ings will be held in Philadelphia at City 
Hall on February 24 and in Pittsburgh at 
the City County Building on March 14. 
The hearings will be a real education.
You can be an education for the com
mission, too. Every woman who has sought 
or had an abortion under Pennsylvanias 
restrictive law is a consumerexpert in abortion lae. Ask to testify. At least write 
the commission. Share your experience and 
thoughts with them to help them reach a 
humane and compassionate recommendaiion for change. (They will protect your 
privacy.)
Write to: Pennsylvania Abortion Law 
Commission, Room 505, Governors Of
fice, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania 17120.
Give them the facts they need, give 
hem the massive support of college wo
men and men they need to come up with a 
recommendation for repeal of our restric
tive law.
For more information contact the com.^ioii or Lehi^i Valley Abortion Rights 
^ocia trail, Box 252, Bethlehem, PennsylJ ohnhFi
Sotvirg Stengle
Editor:
I would like to meet Dough Campbell. 
No doubt he is fat.
Doug Campbell
Editor:
In the college students never-ending 
search for various means to beat their 
heads against walls, PIRG has been born. If 
the hard-sell tactics of the PIRG petitioners 
are any indication of things to come from 
this organization, then we are in for hard 
times. The verbal arm-twisting to which my 
friends and I have been subjected has been 
extremely disagreeable. Many students who 
are reluctant to sign have been inundated 
with petitions everywhere they turn, and 
sign out of expediency.
Many questions come to mind about 
PIRG The first is whether the University is 
going to be reimbursed for administrative 
and book-keeping costs incurred in collect
ing the 2 dollar fee. Another question is 
what will PIRG do for poor and underpriviledged people? I have the feeling that it 
will be a middle class intellectual mastur
bating society. What will the University say 
when PIRG investigates Gulf Oil? How 
much money will be wasted in hopeless 
court cases against giant corporate pollu
ters? Until PIRG comes up with some con
crete proposals for actions that will make 
some sort of difference to Ae residents of 
Pittsbnr^, i for one will witiihold my two 
dollars.
Larry Bay or
Editor:
So far, I find the official newspaper of 
Carnegie-Mellon to be stagnating in the 
same pond as last falls version (R.I.P.)- 
non-variety. I am tired of reading a news
paper that is always bitching at someone. 
Tired of reading opinions that come across 
as Now generationcmon kidslets go 
-do-something-about-it hype. It was hard 
for me to distinguish between the PIRG 
leaflet of two weeks ago and any of your 
last three issues. The TARTAN wishes to 
be an active part of the campus. Hurrah, 
and a megaphone.
Perhaps I am hoping for a journalistic 
panacea for all areassomething to make 
one think, laugh, be interested, be infor
med, all within one newspaper. Mainly, I 
am bored and tired.
I do not obtain a TARTArN to see car
toons that have been stolen from NATION
AL LAMPOON and ZAP COMIX. In ad
dition, the fine weeding our of expressions 
currently on the W. Libs blacklist only 
serves to depress me. The new TARTAN 
hits me as if it were trying to purvey re
sponsibility to its readers. Dont worry 
students, the TARTAN has a voice that can 
be heard. For some reason, I am unas
sured.
The campus seemed to be enjoying its 
sleep, willing to be lulled and entertained 
by the various facilities here, including the 
paper. The TARTAN, however, informs 
the campus, Sleep is un-constructive! 
Sleep only after you have accomplished 
your goal! and proceeds to rouse the 
drowsy students.
I, for one, do not wish to be shouted at. 
(Poor formprepositions ending my sen
tences.) I was once a TARTAN staff mem
ber, and as such defined my own position.
I contributed to the newspaper for enjoy
ments sakeI loved creative journalism. 
Since then, I have submitted some material 
to the TARTAN, but it is not the same. 
The atmosphere of responsibility to 
something or other seems to override any 
potential satirical effect my material may 
have. In other words, the authoritative air 
of the TARTAN makes its other contribu
tions (including mine) look inane.
What we have is a group of students 
trying to bring about action through a pub
lication, the TARTAN. I wish there were a 
newspaper whose sense of community re
sponsibility took second place to its dedi
cation to journalism. Search fpr the lost 
newspaper.
Craig Collins
(Editors note: A copy of the following 
letter was sent to the TARTAN, and I feel 
it is important that I share it with you.)
Panhellenic Association announces its 
endorsement of the procurement of a gyne
cologist, preferably a woman working off 
campus, as a part of the universitys health 
service program. We see a great need and 
desire for this addition to the campus com
munity.
We also urge that women students be 
appointed to the committee for investiga
tion and selection of this person to aid the 
university in its search. Two persons who 
are already anxious to participate T this 
committee are FrarHKamerow and Michelle 
Dichter. Please consider them seriously for 
this appointment.
Thank you very much.
Roni I. I/arris
(Editors note: Because of the switch in 
newspaper publication dates, and the loss 
of one newspaper, we felt that it was im
portant that the issue of PIRG should be 
cleared up as quickly as possible. For this 
reason, a copy of Larry Bayers letter was 
sent to the PIRG office.)
Editor:
Larry Bayers letter has raised some im
portant questions about PIRG and I would 
like to respond to them.
Larry pointed out the middle class acpects of PIRG. It is middle class to the 
extent that students from this backround 
have formed PIRG, but the student boards 
and the professional staff will consist of 
people representing different groups on 
campus and in the community. PIRG will 
deal with more than white middle class 
problems. It will deal directly with discri
minatory practices against blacks and wo
men. It will deal directly with health care 
deliverance and housing inadequacies for 
the poor. Where public education is inef
fective, PIRG will work through the courts 
to bring needed changes. These are just two 
of the areas where PIRG will extend itself 
beyond white middle class liberal prob
lems.
PIRG will not be limited to a previously 
defined set of projects for investigation. 
These will be decided by the students ser
ving on local school boards and by students 
serving on the area Board of Directors. 
PIRG is not a rigid structure with a list of 
specific goals, but will be responsive to the 
needs of the students and the community 
when they arise, consider this one of 
PIRGs strongest aspects and for these 
reasons we have not listed specific projects.
Rob Steigerwalt
Editor:
The last EPC discussed the importance 
of effective teaching as one of the criteria 
for promotion and tenure. (This was dis
cussed last year too but this year the EPC 
is trying to do something about it. At this 
point what will happen is not exactly 
clear.)
It was generally felt that the quality of 
teaching could be improved in many cases 
(not to say that it isnt good now) by 
making feedback available earlier in the 
professors career. Such a procedure is pre
sently followed for a professors research, 
equivalent of our faculty-Course Evalua
tion in a professors dossier. He is permit
ted to select those included but the student 
evaluations are an expected and official 
part of the promotuon-tenure experience.
As of the last published FCE students 
were asked to print subjective comments 
on the back of their computer card reflec
ting gut feelings. These comments were 
compiled and weighted (taking into consid
eration the number of students in the 
course and cards with no comments.) 
These comments were subsequently print
ed in the back of the FCE. Much criticism 
was received concerning this.
Talking with faculty and students alike, 
it appears that the basic idea is a good one. 
Therefore, I propose that these subjective 
comments continue to be collected and 
that they be typed in their entirety. This 
would be given to each professor along 
with the number of cards turned in and the 
number of blank cards to permit the prof 
to evaluate the comments in their propet 
perspective. This would provide feedback 
to the professor much more quickly and in 
such a way that the students identity is 
anonymous.
Terri L Zaluska

---------------------------------------------------

Tartan, Tuesday, February 22, 1972  Page 3
Announcements:
Code and Theory classes for obtaining an
amateur radio operator's license will be 
given by the Carnegie Tech Radio Club 
starting next week. Anyone interested 
please see Henry Robbins, P.O. Box 766 
CMU'
Vincent Price, who is well known to mo
tion picture, television, and theatre audi
ences, is equally well known to lovers of 
art, collectors of cook books, readers of his 
books and newspaper column, as well as 
the thousands who have seen his one-man 
shows and listened to his lectures. This 
versatile man appears at Duquesne Univesity on March 1, 1972 at 8:30 p.m. Mr. 
Price is presented under the auspices of 
The Cultural Arts Committee, in the Union 
Ballroom. Tickets$1.00.
Financial Aid Applications for 1972-73
due. Forms to apply for undergraduate fi
nancial aid for the academic year 1972-73 
are now available in the Financial Aid Of
fice 215 Warner Hall.
The Parents' Confidential Statement 
must be completed and sent to College 
Scholarship Service by February 29, 1972. 
The Student Application is due in the Fi
nancial Aid Office by March 13, 1972.
The above forms were mailed to all un
dergraduates who currently receive finan
cial aid. However, if you are a financial aid 
recipient and did not receive these forms, 
please come to the Financial Aid Office, 
for both the PArents' Confidential State
ment and the Student Application.
Students who are applying for under
graduate aid for the first time should ob
tain these same two forms.
Society of Physics: There will be a SPS
meeting on Wednesday, February 23 at 
4:30 PM The meeting will be held in the 
undergraduate Physics lounge, DH 3300. 
Membership cards and pins will definitely 
be distributed. Future events will be dis
cussed. All new members are urged to at
tend in order to complete distribution of 
membership materials. New members are 
welcome.
Philip Handler, noted biochemist, edu
cator, and author, will deliver the Dravo 
Corporation lecture in the "Man & Ideas" 
series of the Women's Committee, Museum 
of Art, Carnegie Institute, at 8:30 p.m., 
Wednesday, March 1, in the Carnegie Music 
Hall, OAkland.
Tickets for Dr. HAndler's talk are avail
able free by contacting Miss Virginia Trim
ble, 82 N. Harrison Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
15202.
Born in New York City in 1917, Dr. 
HAndler earned an undergraduate degree in 
biology and chemistry and a Ph. D. in 
boichemistry from the University of Illi
nois. His research interests include the bio
chemical aspects of nutritional deficiency 
states, coenzyme metabolism, renal hyper
tension, mechanism of hormone action, 
biological oxidations, mechanism of en
zyme action, evolution and amino acid 
metabolism.
Dr. HAndler's first appearance is the 
third in the 1971-72 "Man & Ideas" lecture 
series. The first and second were by JAmes 
Rouse, urban planner, sponsored by the 
Alcoa Foundation, and Saul Bass, graphic 
designer and film maker, presented by Gulf
Oil Corporation. Margaret Mead, anthropoligist, sociologist and author, will present 
the fourth lecture on April 12, sponsored 
by Ketchum, MacLeod and Grove, Inc.
If you haven't already realized it, there is
no 1972 Thistle, the CMU yearbook. Sen
iors, underclassmen, faculty, staff and 
alumni who wish to purchase past issues of 
the Thistle may now do so. Mortar Board, 
Senior Women's Honorary,,in conjunction 
with the Alumni Association, is selling 
copies of the 1961, 65, 66, 69, 70, and 71 
Thistles. The price is $5 for the first book 
purchased, $4 for the second, and $3 for 
each additional book. Mortar Board is con
tributing all proceeds to CMU scholarship 
funds.
The 50th Anniversary Issue of the Carnegie
Technical has been postponed because of 
production delays and a lack of suitable 
material. It will be published in April in
stead of in February as originally announ
ced. The February issue, due to be distri
buted late this week, will be normal size. 
The revised deadline for submissions for 
the 50th Anniversary Issue is March 3. The 
Technical published scientific or critical 
papers, essays.poetry and short stories. 
Subnissions or inquiries may be sent to: 
Carnegie Technical, Box 16, Campus Mail.
General Campus Committee of Student Se
nate will meet February 23 at 6:00 in 
Room 33 Skibo. We will make recommen
dations to Food Service, Health Service, 
Parking Committee, and Housing. The stu
dent body is invited to attend.
The previous weekend Pittsburgh Sym
phony concert at Heinz Hall, with guest 
conductor Walter Susskind and violinist 
Sidney Harth will be broadcast Tuesday, 
February 22 at 9:00 p.m. over 
WWSWFM. Selections include Smetana's 
"Overture to the Bartered Bride," Khacha
turian's "Violin Concerto," and Vaughan 
Williams' "A London Symphony." Ray 
Lehman will be host commentator.
A Phi O would like to know who would be
interested in shuttle bus service from CMU 
to Greater Pittsburgh Ariport of February 
25. If sufficient interest is shown, further 
information and schedules will follow 
soon. Please contact as soon as possible so 
decision can be made: R. Moffat, Rm. 301 
Donner; D. Mahacsek, Rm. B-102 Schlag; 
A Phi O, Box 100.
The University Chinese Club will present
China Night, an evening of entertainment 
to be held at 8:00 p.m. on Friday, Febru
ary 25 at Peter Mills Auditorium, Rockwell 
Hall, Duquesne University. The club is a 
non-profit organization drawing most of its 
members form among Chinese students at 
the University of Pittsburgh, Carnegie-Mellon University, and Duquesne University, 
as well as from the rest of the Chinese 
community in Pittsburgh. The CMU branch 
is recognized as a student activity by the 
student government.
The program includes four classical and 
folk dances, classical Chinese music, art 
songs, folk songs, Chinese boxing, possibly 
an old-time fashion show, movies on Chi
nese art and on present day Taiwan and 
Mainland China. There is an admission 
charge of two dollars. Tickets are on sale at 
the Pitt Student Union Ticket Office, the 
Skibo Information Desk at CArnegie-Mellon, the Duquesne Ticket Center, and the 
Foreign Student Advisor's Office at Pitt; 
they can also be obtained by writing to 
Box 231 Carnegie-Mellon University, Pitts
burgh, Pa. 15213.
The National Poetry Press announces its
Spring Competition for College Student's 
Poetry Anthology. The closing date for the 
submission of manuscripts by college stu
dents is April 10. Any student attending 
either junior or senior college is eligible to 
submit his verse. There is no limitation as 
to form of theme. Shorter works are pre
ferred by the Board of Judges, because of 
space limitations. Each poem must be 
typed or printed on a separate sheet, and 
must bear the name and home address of 
the student, and the college address as well. 
Entrants should also submit name of Eng
lish instructor.
Applications for Director of the Activities 
Board are available at the Skibo Informa
tion Desk and must be returned no later 
than noon on Wednesday, March 1. The 
selection committee, as prescribed in the 
Senate Constitution, will meet that after
noon to make their recommendation to 
Senate for approval. Announcement of the 
new director will be made on the evening 
of March 1. If there are any questions, see 
Mr. McCurdy, Chairman of the Selection 
Committee in Skibo 
103.
Classified Ads-.
Wanted: Some used books on homological 
algebra and/or category theory. Must be a 
good text and reasonably priced.
683-7827.
Found: Enameled silver ring, Feb. 7 in 5th
floor Science Hall Women's Room. Call 
Ext. 566 and give description.
Attention: All Jockie Stewarts! Reorganizational meeting of CMU Sports Car Club 
to be held Wednesday, February 23 at 9:00 
p.m.. Room 56 Skibo. Discussion of April 
9th AutoCross and any other possible club 
activities.
Alpha Phi Omega desires people to teach
swimming to young boys on Saturday 
mornings at 9:00 in hte gym.
Couple desires to sublet two-bedroom apt.
for the summer. Furnished. Swimming 
pool desired. Call 355-3796, weekdays.
Spare time modeling assignments available
in promotional, fashion, and photographic 
areas. Experience unnecessary. Top sala
ries. Write A&R Associates, Box 7220 Oak
land Station, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213.
Compact refrigerators, bicycles (folding),
sewing machines, typewriters, and desks 
for rent. Call 279-7951 after 6 p.m.
Wanted: People who read faster than 5,000
wpm, for psych. Please call CMU Ext. 279, 
John Gould.
Stripper wanted for fraternity party. If in
terested, call 687-6250. G.H.
Apartment wanted for one person, campus 
area. 521-8688.
Bicycle wanted. 521-8688.
Personals:
S.J.K.: Hi! signed, Freezog.
NancyGive it all up. What will the neigh
bors think. Oranges don't last forever, you 
know. Bozo.
Dimples, How do you feel about tongue in
cheek humor?
Barbara Blue, I've been thinkin' about you.
Come and see me sometime.
films:
CAMPUS
"69 CR 180"-The Chicago Conspiracy 
Trial. Wednesday, February 23. Doherty 
Hall 2210. 8 PM. Admission: Free.
VAMPYR. Film Arts. Thursday, February
24. Porter Hall 100, 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 PM. 
Admission: Film Arts Ticket.
FAILSAFE and ROADRUNNER FES
TIVAL. MDC. Saturday, February 26. 
Doherty Hall 2210, 7:30, 10:00 PM. Free.
PITT
FILM PORTRAITS. Pagborn Film Club. 
Tuesday, February 22. Benedum Audi
torium. 8:00 PM. Free.
YANCO. U.C.I.S. Wednesday, February
23. 120 Common Facilities. 8:30J?M. Free.
DIVORCE ITALIAN STYLE. Pangborn 
Film Club. Thursday, February 24. 120 
Common Facilities. 8:15 PM. Admission: 
$.50.
GOOD-BYE COLUMBUS. Special Pro
grams. Friday, February 25. 120 Common 
Facilities. 7:00, 9:30 PM. Free.
BELLE DE JOUR, LA FENNE INFIDELE. Pangborn Film Club. Saturday, 
February 26. 120 Common Facilities. 7:00 
PM. Admission: $.75.
COMMUNITY
BULLITT. Pittsburgh Playhouse. February 
20-26. Call 621-4445 for details. Admis
sion: $1.00.
THE GREAT DICTATOR. Chaplin Film 
Festival. Guild Theater. Through February 
29. Call 521-0700 for times. Admission: 
$1.00 reduction for students.
FOLLOW THE BOYS. Starring W.C. 
Fields. Oakland Co-Op. Friday, February
25. 8:00, 10:00 PM. Admission: $1.00.
VAMPYR. Carnegie Lecture Hall. Sunday, 
February 27. 7:30 PM. Free.
THEY SHOOT HORSES, DON'T THEY. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse. Starting February 
27. Call 621-4445 for details. Admission: 
$1.00.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4 - Tartan, Tuesday, February 22, 1972
Welfare
More than 100 persons representing 44 
organizations attended the Welfare Reform 
Conference at Pitt on Saturday, February 
12th unanimously adopted a strategy to 
oppose the Nixon Family Assistance Plan 
(H.R.l) and the Ribicoff Amendments in 
the Senate, and to support a CHILDRENS 
MARCH FOR SURVIVAL to be held in 
Washington, D.C. on MArch 25th.
The Conference also selected a steering 
committee form among the 39 organiza
tions represented to meet immediately to 
broaden the coalition, to help educate the 
public, and to organize opposition to H.R. 
1 and the Ribicoff Amendments in the 
Senate.
Many of the persons attending the Con
ference had supported the Ribicoff Amen
dments until Dr. George Wiley, Executive 
Director of the National Welfare Rights 
Organization, outlined the political realities 
which confront the Senate in its debate 
over welfare reform. Speaking directly to 
those groups which advocated amending 
HR. 1 in the Senate, Wiley noted that even 
should the Ribicoff Amendments become 
accepted by the Senate, the final welfare 
reform bill will be shaped by a joint com
mittee Chaired by Wilbur Mills of the 
House Ways and MEans Committee (spon
sor of H.R. 1) and Senator Russell Long of 
the Senate Finance Committee (supporter 
of welfare legislation more repressive then
H.R.l). That joint committee is composed 
of two groups of men who are sommitted 
to welfare legislation even more repressive 
than the present H.R. 1 noted Wiley. 
Now what possibility is there that those 
men would come to a compromise agree
ment that is more liberal than H.R. 1? 
There is none! And there is reason to think 
that it is going to be worse. Dr. Wiley 
explained why by tracing the history of the f 
1967 Social Security Amendments which 
passed the house and were liberalized in 
the Senate. Wiley noted,They fixed it in 
the Senate, and Russell Long and Wilbur 
Mills got together and they had their con
ference and when it came back out of the 
conference it was the exact piece of legisla
tion that had come out of the House of 
Representatives. The same thing will hap
pen to whatever piece of legislation comes 
out of the Senate, no matter how liberal, 
noted Wiley.
To those who argue that after it comes 
back frbm the Joint Committee, the Senate 
will have a final chance to defeat it if it is 
unsatisfactory, Wiley noted that when it 
comes back for a final vote it will be tied 
to a 5% or 10% Social Security incerase for 
27 million senior citizens and to improved 
medical and welfare benefits for the elder
ly. No one will be able to vote agianst 
that kind of a Christmas Tree loaded 
with goodies in order to save welfare fami
lies and children form the drastic effects of
H.R. 1, stated Wiley.
It was on the basis of these political 
realities that the Conference voted unan
imously to try to kill H.R. 1 and the Rib
icoff Amendments in the Senate.
In calling for support for the CHILD
RENS MARCH FOR SURVIVAL in Wash
ington D.C. on MArch 25th, Dr. Wiley em
phasized the impact that the Nixon Family 
Destrustion Plan, as NWRO calls it, will 
have on children. Whatever anybody thinks 
about welfare mothers, or whatever any
body thinks about welfare recipients, the 
victims of the repression embodied in the 
Nixon program are going to be children. 
While mothers are forced out of the home 
to work at jobs that dont even pay min
imum wage, children are forced without 
any parental choice into custodial centers 
whi Ji will be nothing more than dumping 
gro.inds for the children of the poor. Nix
on vetoed a constructive proposal by Sen
ator Mondale earlier this year by claiming
that H.R. 1 would do the job and by claim
ing that he did not want to separate child
ren from the care of their parents. H.R. 1 
will force mothers out of the home and 
will provide only $800 per year per child 
for daycare. HEW had testified that decent 
child care cannot be obtained for less than 
$1500 per year per child. $800 per year 
will not provide decent nutrition and su
pervision for custodial care, noted Wiley, 
let alone the kind of enriched program that 
poor children need. Moreover the real vic
tims of NixonS proposed cut in welfare 
grants to $2400 per year for a family of 
four will be the children. Without an ad
equate diet, decent clothing, housing and 
medical care, how can those children ever 
expect to break out of the cycle of pover
ty. Wiley noted:It is the children who are 
going to have the money for their food cut 
back when these cuts take place in the 
welfare grants! It is the children who are 
going to be sedtroyed and ground under in 
a process more complicated and destructive 
to the dignity of individuals than the sys
tem that we have at the present time.
. Wiley stated that it was a tribute to the 
cleverness of Nixon anthe Nixon Admini
stration as politicians that they have been 
able to wrap up their repression in the garb 
of reform so that such a broad segment 
of the American population is being 
fooled. Wiley noted, We are in a very 
unique situation where not only is a major 
repression against welfare recipients being 
planned in the form of Nixons so-called 
Family Assistance Plan, but that repression 
is widely heralded by supposed liberal and 
moderate groups as a major reform. How 
can you talk about reform when the major
ity of the children receiving public assist
ance would have their grants cut under the 
so-called reform?
Dr. Wiley emphasized the importance of 
establishing citizen contracts with the Sen
ators. One contract would contain a com
mitment to vote agianst H.R. I and any bill 
in the form of H.R. 1. A second contract 
would contain a commitment for the Sen
ators to attend the Childrens hearings in 
Washington in March. A third contract 
would provide a weeks delay between the 
presentation of the final welfare bill and 
the actual final vote so that citizens would 
know what is happening. The fourth con
tract would ask the Senator to state his or 
her position on the question of guaranteed 
adequate income. The contract would be 
signed between the citizens and the Sen
ators to eliminate the political slipping 
and sliding that politicians do.MIS
Jon Manon
CMUs Mellon Institute of Science may 
be offering two structural innovations to 
freshman beginning next fall. At a recent 
meeting, the MIS College Council approved 
a program outlining an option of creditby-examination for select freshman 
courses, and likewise affirmed the creation 
of a Bachelor of Science degree in Science.
The credit-by-examination option, if im
plemented, will permit students to receive 
credit for courses not taken if the students 
can demonstrate competence with the 
course material in an exam given during the 
pre-semester orientation period. Tentative
ly this program will be instituted next fall 
for the first chemistry course and for the 
physics-calculus course. Syllabi detailing 
the content of these two courses will be 
made available to the entering students 
who may, without threat of penalization, 
take one or both of the competence exami
nations. If an examination is passed, the 
appropriate credit (9 units for chemistry, 
18 units for physics-calculus) will be 
granted, but no grade is registered, render
ing the exempted course effectively as a 
pass.
However, whether the approved creditby-examination program will indeed be
come a reality is subject to some doubt. 
Although the idea was approved in princi
ple, the Departments themselves are not 
certain that they can find the funds to 
implement it. The Departments involved 
feel that faculty members must be paid 
extra to sompile the syllabi, compose the 
exams, and then to grade the exams. There 
is question whether this money to pay for 
extracurricular faculty labor will be forth 
coming.
The Science Degree program which was 
approved, and which presumably faces no 
financial obstacles, will allow a student to 
substitute comprehensive programs in seve
ral sciences for the traditional program of 
intensive specialization in a single field. 
Each student opting for this degree will, 
under the tutelage of an advisor, tailor his 
own program of study. His options will be 
circumscribed by the following require
ments: 1) The introductory chemistry and 
physics-calculus courses must be taken: 2) 
84 units of work in the College of the 
Humanities and Social Sciences are re
quired; 3) the student-defined technical 
program is to consist of 207 total units of 
which at least 135 units must be of courses 
rated at the two hundred level or above. 
The content of 120 units of the technical 
program must be delineated in the stu
dents proposal for his self-defined science 
degree.
Such a non-specialized science program 
is deemed appropriate for those seeking 
versitality in teaching science at the secon
dary achool level. Additionally, it might 
well serve the needs of students interested 
in inter-disciplinary subjects. The members 
of the MIS College Council are very anx
ious that the Science Degree not be regard
ed as in any way qualitatively sub-par, and 
have specified the requirements accord
ingly.
The College Council of the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology (comprised of re
presentatives from the engineering colleges) 
has only partially and somewhat hesitantly 
followed the MIS Councils lead. After con
siderable discussion at their February 1 
meeting, the CIT college Council officially 
approved the action of the MIS Council in 
the creation of the credit-by-examination 
option for the chemistry and physics-cal
culus courses. The idea of creating a B.S. 
degree in Engineering was subsequently 
forwarded by Dean Siekman, but was shut
tled into committee for further considera
tion. It was agreed that the idea had merit, 
but some Council members felt that the 
program needed to be more specifically 
defined.
Much of the impetus for these innova
tions has come from Assocaite CIT Dean 
Robert Siekman. He met several times last 
semester with an ad hoc agglomeration of 
student representatives from both CIT and 
MIS College Councils and from the various 
departmental Student Advisory Commit
tees. These representatives all shared a 
vague conviction that modifications of the 
engineering and science education as pre
sently offered at CMU are in order. Numreous schemes of reform, ranging from the 
unobtrusive to the sweepingly anarchic, 
were formulated at these gatherings, but 
the credit-by-examination and the B.S. 
Science Degree proposals are the first ideas 
to find concrete expression in official uni
versity pronouncements.
health.
Professor Lester Lave, head of the eco
nomics department at GSIA, is currently 
conducting a comprehensive health care 
economics research project aimed at find
ing the nature and methods of controlling 
health care costs. The program is being 
funded by the R. K. Mellon Fund and the 
Department of Health, Education and Wel
fare at a rate of approximately $240,000 a 
year. It will run through July 1972 at least.
The program has been triggered by con
cern over the inflationary rate inthe costs 
of health care. President Nixon has noted 
the 10 - 15% annual rate as contributing 
highly to the present economic condition. 
Laves aim is to apply scientific manage
ment techniques to the industry to increase 
its efficiency.
In particular, a management informa
tion system (MIS) is now being designed 
for Oaklands Presbyterian University Hos
pital. Dan Neggin, a recent GSIA graduate 
who is now employed full-time with the 
project, says the system is similar to ones 
being used in private industry. It will allow 
hospital administrators to know more of 
what is happening in their hospital at any 
moment. Prospects for the system include 
measures for forcasting incoming patient 
needs and precise scheduling and control 
over efficient employment of facilities.
Lave claims that the implementation of 
efficient methods is a particularly challeng
ing problem in the health care field. Hos
pitals, he reports, receive nearly all pay
ments for their services form insurance 
companies who reimburse the hospitals at 
the hospitals costs. He sees little pressure 
in the industry for cost controls. Prac
tically, the project is working to design 
cost control incentive programs for hos
pitals and hospital employees.
The seven faculty members form GSIA 
and SUPA and numerous graduate students 
under them, who are working on the pro
ject, are alos attempting to devise manage
ment models that would be applicable to 
analization of the industry.grants
Carnegie-Mellon University has received 
grants totalling more than $111,600 for 
studies in air pollution, chemical engineer
ing, molecular biology, and computer sci
ence.
Edward L. Cussler, associate professor 
of chemical engineering, will direct re
search on the pumping wffects in mem
branes under a $51,900 grant from the 
National Science Foundation.
William Oosterhuis, assistant professor 
of physice, will head a molecular biology 
study focusing on hyperfine interactions in 
iron proteins under a $20,079 grant from 
the National Institute of Health.
INFO
Informational meetings will be con
ducted by all departments in CIT, MIS and 
the Department of Administration and 
Management Science. These programs, 
scheduled from Thursday, March 2 through 
Thursday, March 16, are designed to aid 
the engineering and science freshmen in 
declaring their major departments. Follow
ing is the schedule of meetings:
March 2 Mechanical Engineering-7:30 
P.M.-Wherrett Room
March 6Engineering and Public Affairs-3:30 P.M.-SCH 4325 
MArch 7-Biomedical Engineering Op
tion-3:30 P.M.-SCH 1319 
March 7-MEtallurgy & Materials Sci
ence- 11:300 A.M.-SCH 4325 
March 8Chemisrty-11:30, 12:30, 1:30, 
2:30. 3:30-DH 1112
March 9-Administrative and Management
Science-11:30 A.M.-GSIA 213
MArch 9-MAthematics (Comp. SCi. Option)3:30 P.M.-PH 100
March 1 3Civil Engineering-3:30
P.M.-Bh 245
March 14-Chemical Engineering-11:30 
A.M.-DH 1112
March 14 Electrical Engineering3:30 
P.M.-HH 104
MArch 16-Biological Sciences-11:30 A.M. 
-MM 14
March 16-Physics-3:30 P.M.-SCH 7500

---------------------------------------------------

Tartan, Tuesday, February 22, 1972  Page 5
Jim Slivka
When Henry Kissinger flew to Paris for his 
secret meetings with the North Viet
namese, Richard Milhaus Nixons code 
name was Quarterback. At this point in 
the Republican campaign, Nixon is the 
first-stringer. He has good field position on 
the political field in his bid to win the 
nomination and probably will win. But 
there are three other candidates for the 
quarterbacking slot of the Republican team
- Paul Pete McCloskey, John Ashbrook, 
and Pat Paulsen. Little can be said at this 
time about Nixons campaign so far -- it has 
been low-keyed with no direct politicing 
by the candidate himself. But this grinding 
out the clock could lead to a delay of game 
penalty due to active stumping being done 
by Pete McCloskey and John Ashbrook. 
However, the number one Field General 
has the upper hand with regards to the 
media as whenever he makes a move it is 
news. The biggest unpolitical plays are 
coming up -- the trips to China and Mos
cow will get more coverage than last 
months Super Bowl. On the sidelines, Mr. 
Nixon has his cabinet, aides, and assistants 
funneling his plays over headphones to 
Ron Zeigler so he can release the plays to 
the media at a critical point in the all 
important game. When it is third and ten, 
Kissinger, Laird, Stans, or Connally, come 
up with a trick to be used on the playing 
field and it becomes a widely covered ev
ent. Thus, the Nixon team gains a first-and-ten. Silent, so far, on the sidelines has 
been the head cheerleader, Spiro T. Agnew, 
chiefly responsible for firing up the spect
ators.
To the left of Nixon on the Republican 
team is Paul McCloskey, a Representative 
from California, who has been in preseason 
training since last summer when he opened 
up his first headquarters in New Hamp
shire, the site of the first scrimmage. His 
passing has been getting more accurate and 
might be good enough to edge in on the 
first-stringer. Pete, as he prefers to be call
ed, first reached the major leagues when he 
beat out Nixons lollipop, Shirley Temple 
Black, in a special Congressional election in 
California. As it now stands, Pete is about 
50 percentage points behind Nixon in the 
polls in New Hampshire but that figure can 
be deceiving. In New Hampshire there are
162,000 registered Republicans, 100,000 
registered Democrats, and 124,000 indep
endent voters. The non-partisan fans are 
allowed to show their support for a quar
terback on either team by casting their 
vote for him or her in his or her respective 
primary. The independent vote could make 
the difference between a Nixon first down 
with yardage to spare or one where they 
have to call for the sticks. McCloskey is 
hoping for a repetition of the 1968 
McCarthy showing where McCarthy re
ceived the vast majority of the independent 
vote. McColskey, however, has interference 
coming from an unexpected source, a can
didate for the first-string position on the 
other team, McGovern. Both Pete and 
George are trying to get into the graces of 
the independents: Pete in hopes of topp
ling Dick and George with aspirations of 
upsetting Ed. Thus, McCloskey, an anti-war 
advocate and a strong porponent for string
ent population control and ecological pres
ervation since the early 1960s, might see 
his game plan fail him in his first (and 
maybe last) scrimmage. McCloskey in order 
to prevent his having to punt away his 
chance for the nomination, must pull 20 
per cent or more of the vote.
To the right of Nixon on the Republi
can team is Ohio Congressman John 
Ashbrook, who entered the competition
for the number one slot late last year. 
Ashbrook calls himself a strict conservative 
and considers Nixons trip to China as a 
disaster and calls the first-string quarter
back a liberal! Ashbrook also favors the 
U.S. pouring more money into the defense 
budget. Ashbrook has gained the endorse
ment of THE MANCHESTER UNION 
LEADERS publisher, staunch conservative 
William Loeb. At this time, the presence of 
Ashbrook in the New Hampshire ball game 
has not generated much enthusiam and has 
not affected either Nixons or McCloskeys 
campaign to any great degree. Leaving the 
realm of New Hampshire, Ashbrook has 
received strong support from fans in 
Orange County (the area where San Clem
ente is), California. But the results of his 
campaign will not be totally known until 
after the first few scrimmages in New 
Hampshire, Florida, and Wisconsin.
On the lighter side of Nixon, Pat 
Paulsen is also seeking the Republican 
starting quarterback post. Unlike 1968, Pat 
Paulsen is a serious candidate and is act
ively campaigning. Even the F.C.C. is tak
ing him seriously and has cancelled shows 
in which he was to perform due to the 
equal time provision. He poses no threat to 
the front runner at this time.
Therefore, the battle for the primary 
quarterbacking slot on the Republican 
team is shaping up to be one big football 
game with four candidates -- one on the 
left, one on the right, one on the lighter 
side, and one on the top.
Speaking of the one on top, Mr. Nixon, 
it seems, feels that the fall campaign is 
already underway. Nixon and his Cabinet 
Secretaries, including Laird and Stans, have 
unleashed a verbal barrage on all the presidental candidates (Democratic and Re
publican) who have spoken out against his 
latest peace proposal. The Nixon team has 
implied that these people are aiding the 
cause of the enemy by giving the Viet
namese the idea to delay acceptance of the 
peace proposal until after the November 
election. Most of the attack has been dir
ected at Ed Muskie (it seems that the 
Nixon squad feels that Muskie will be the 
oppositions quarterback). Ed Muskies re
ply was that if it is unsportsmanlike to 
speak out against a presidents peace over
tures, why did Nixon tear apart Johnsons 
peace proposals during the 1968 election 
year? On February 12th, Senator Dole, Re
publican Party Chairman, declared that 
Muskie should withdraw from the race due 
to his criticisms of Nixons Vietnam Game 
Plan! In conclusion, the 1972 Political 
Super Bowl is well underway with both 
team's already putting their game strategies 
into action.
trustees
As directed by the Board, the following 
proceedings of the meeting of the Board of 
Trustees on January 17, 1972, are publish
ed for the information of the campus com
munity.
1. Mrs. Davis T Morgenthaler, Class of 
1945 graduate with a Bachelor of Fine Arts 
degree in Painting and Design, was elected 
as an Alumni Term Trustee.
2. The Edmund R. Boots Scholarship 
Fund was approved as a permanent named 
endowed fund. The donor, Mr. Boots, is a 
graduate of the class of 1912, the charter 
class.
3. The administration was authorized to 
award the appropriate number of Univer
sity-supported faculty leaves for 
1972-73, the number to be determined by 
the budget for this purpose.
4. The report of the Budget Committee 
noted the current years income and expen
sesactual for the first 5 months, esti
mated for the whole year. Income is ex
pected to be nearly $900,000 below the
budget, and expenses about $500,000 high
er than budgeted. The latter figure includes 
$200,000 authorized, after the budget was 
adopted, for major building maintenance, 
that could not be postponed any longer. 
The present projection of the deficit ex
pected at the end of this year is $1.6 mil
lion, which is $1.2 million more than was 
foreseen when the budget was adopted last 
April. The Administration is attempting to 
reduce expenses for 1971-72 and to in
crease annual giving for support of current 
operations, and the trustees are seeking to 
improve the income from endowment. An
nual deficits of the magnitude in prospect 
ofr 197172 would place the long-range 
viability of the University in Jeopardy.
The Budget Committee meeting gave 
long consideration to raising tuition for 
1972-73 to increase income, but concluded 
that it would be more productive to keep 
tuition at the present $2500 figure for next 
year and attempt to increase enrollment. 
The Board concurred.
5. The working drawings for Phase 1 of 
the Dramatic Arts Center are completed, 
and the architects estimate of the total 
project cost is $4.25 million. Gifts and 
grants now in hand or pledged for this 
project total $2.6 million. President Stever 
gave a number of reasons why he urged 
that the trustees authorize proceeding with 
this building as fast as possible. Efforts to 
find additional gifts for the $1.6 million 
still needed would continue during the con
struction, and if they fall short the Finance 
Committee could indicate how the remain
ing funding can be arranged. The trustees 
approved proceeding at once to get con
tractor bids and starting construction as 
soon as possible. In addition, the recom
mendation was approved to bring electric 
and steam utility lines form the central 
campus across Forbes Avenue to serve the 
new Drama Building and Morewood Gar
dens.
6. Gifts and pledges for the Fund for 
Distinction now total just over $36 million, 
and the program is still continuing. The 
new CMU Fund designed to increase an
nual giving by alumni, trustees, parents, 
and friends to provide additional support 
for the operating budget is making good 
progress, with 1150 gifts totaling 
$240,000. Of this amount about half has 
been contributed by the trustees.
7. A report was made on endowment 
fund activity and on short-term invest
ments. Two experimental investment ac
counts conducted with GSIA endowment 
funds in an effort to increase income were 
considered to be useful studies but since 
their findings were fairly inconclusive, they 
were again combined with the GSIA en
dowment pool. The main endowment is 
being divided into two pools-one for per
manent and one for discretionary endow
ment, with somewhat different investment 
policies for the two. The objectives are 
improved current income to support the 
budget and long-range contribution to the 
University.
8. The Student Affairs Committee heard 
and discussed a report by the Director of 
Security Services on the operation of and 
plans for the Security Department. It was 
noted with pleasure that student members 
have been added to three more trustee 
committees, making five on which students 
are represented. The campus appears to be 
free of the kind of problems that triggered 
disruption two years ago.
9. Professor Resnick reported that the 
Senate has appointed a budget committee 
of the trustees. Two trustees are working 
with the faculty in refining the draft of a 
document called Standards and Procedures 
for Faculty Review. The complaint of a 
faculty member denied reappointment has 
been reviewed by a nine member Faculty 
Review Committee, the question being 
concerned with the procedures used, not 
with any issue of academic freedom. The
Senate is trying to help the University deal 
with the recommendations of the Commis
sion on the Status of Women at CarnegieMellon University; it has directed morions 
to three of its Councils to aid in removing 
present inequities and in responding to 
HEWs request for compliance. The Senate 
has planned a reception for the Stevers on 
January 24, hoping to make the regrettable 
farewell a warm and friendly occasion. Pro
fessor Resnik expressed appreciation to 
Preaident Stever for transforming the insti
tution into a distinguished university and 
spoke of the facultys looking forward to a 
cooperative and prodictive relationship 
with his successor.
10. Mr. Michael Garl, President of 
Student Government, noted with appreci
ation that student representation in Univer
sity affairs is growing, with members on 5 
trustee committes, on the Faculty Senate, 
and on the Educational Policy Council. 
Student Government has recently reorgani 
zed, with a new President, new Chairman 
of Student Senate, and new attendance re
quirements. It is planning the 1972-73 bud
get, and may have a surplus in the current 
year. It is considering various academic 
problems and is seeking greater involve
ment of women students in student activi
ties. It has arranged a dinner honoring Pre
sident Stever and has a search committee at 
work helping to select the next president. 
On the whole, the issues which served as 
focal points for students activism two years 
ago are being eliminated-e.g. the war in 
Vietnam is being wound down, ecology is 
being dealt with. Our students now are not 
interested in activism; they are studying 
harder than ever in order to compete for 
jobs and graduate school.
11. Mr. Smuts, President of Alumni As
sociation, reported that at the last meeting 
of the Executive Board of the Alumni As
sociation, five matters were identified to be 
given special emphasis this year: 1) helping 
in the search for the next president, 2) 
planning for a task force to consider what 
further efforts the University might make 
in continuing education areas, 3) refining 
the list of so-called prestige alumni who 
could be helpful to the University in fund
raising and toher ways, 4) exploring the 
idea of an alumin placement council in 
parallel to the campus placemept work, 
analagous to the Carnegie-Mellon Admis
sions Council in parallel to the campus 
admissions work, and 5) evaluating in 
depth the alumni homecoming activity to 
see whether it can be revised and improved. 
A comprehensive look is to be taken at all 
organized alumni activities, and a report on 
this is planned for the next meeting of the 
Board of Trustees.
12. The Chairman called attention to 
the list of gifts and grants totaling 
$679,000 received in December.
13. The Board commended Horton 
Guyford Stever for his distinguished leader
ship to the University during his seven 
years as president; accepted hsi resignation, 
effective February 1, 1972, with deep re
gret; and expressed congratulations and 
best wishes upon his selection as Director 
of the National Science Foundation.
14. The Chairman described the process 
being used in the search for the next presi
dent. Four search committees are at worktrustee, student, academic, and alumni-and 
there is free interchange of information 
and close cooperation among them. They 
have set down the qualifications they feel 
the next president should have as well as 
suggested candidates to be considered. A 
so-called Omnibus Committee made up of 
9 members representing the four search 
committees will narrow the long list down 
to about 6 outstanding candidates who 
should be investigated seriously. Because it 
is most unlikely that the new president will 
be on hand by February I, the Trustees 
elected Dr. Edward Schatz as acting presi
dent.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6  Tartan, Tuesday, February 22, 1972
palso
(ed. note: The following is a reply by 
Terence N. Palso to Ms. Judy Gibbons 
letter, TARTAN, Feb. 10)
Dear Ms. Gibbons,
Thank you for your recent correspon
dence. It is always a pleasure to hear from 
an avid reader, especially one who takes 
the time to offer criticism of my opinions.
I am sorry if my column caused you any 
sort of mental anguish, knowing how 
doubly painful this can be for one as
sociated with the Psychology Department; 
but I feel that, if taken within the context 
of PLAY MISTY FOR ME, as well as real 
life, my comments can easily be defended.
First, within the film no reason other 
than the fact that Clint Eastwood would 
not foresake all others, and fall im
mediately in love with her was given for 
Jessica Walters homocidal tendencies. This 
was the only motivation presented to the 
audience. Miss Walters went out of her way 
to be picked up by Eastwood, and even 
though he told her that he wanted little 
more than a one night stand, she agreed to 
sleep with him. In the morning, however, 
she attempted to make him attach himself 
wholeheartedly to her, which he resisted.
These actions led to my comment. East
wood treated her as the liberated woman 
he assumed she was, and later she comes at 
him with a knife. Admittedly, she is 
psychotic, but the audience is not shown 
this, in fact they know little more about 
her than she calls Eastwood on his radio 
show and quite frequently tells him to, 
Play Misty for me. Now, if such actions 
are definited indications of psychosis, then 
any disc jockey in this country will certain
ly be able to tell you that a lot of people 
who are seriously in need of help are run
ning around, for this sort of things happens 
every night.
As for my comment about real life, al
though you certainly may not believe this,
I am in favor of womens liberation, but 
only if the women themselves accept it 
wholeheartedly. It makes little difference 
to me with whom I compete in life (in fact 
my immediate boss happens to be a wom
an), but my equals had better not expect 
me to help them with their coats, carry 
their packages, hold doors for them, and 
other such actions generally associated 
with male chauvinism. I have found that all 
too many women like the tenets of 
womens liberation, but do not want to 
accept everything that inevitably goes 
along with them. When I drink with my 
equals, everyone either pays for his own, or 
we take turns buying rounds. How many of 
your liberated sisters sit there and let the 
man pay? When my equals and I go some
where, either we all pay our own way, or 
again, we take turns picking up the tab. 
How many of your sisters in liberation 
would even agree to this? Perhaps the man
ner in which I view the situation might 
seem strange to someone who is not fami
liar with the other side of the situation, but 
I feel that if someone is going to be my 
equal in the work-a-day world, they are 
also going to remain my equals the rest of 
the time. I feel that this is only fair, but 
how many of your clenched-fisted sisters 
would be willing to give up their traditional 
position?
As for your statement advocating 
censorship, I must thoroughly disagree 
with you, and congratulate the editor for 
keeping the TARTAN a free forum where 
ideas, even though they may not be ones 
she agrees with. I hope your opinions on 
this were expressed in the heat of anger, 
and are not ones which you whole
heartedly advocate.
I also must take issue with you in your 
statement about blacks. Ms. Gibbons, I feel 
that you are flattering yourself far too 
much by referring to your cause as being 
parallel to the one in which the American 
blacks find themselves. Believe me, women 
have it a lot better, and if you have any 
doubts about this, let me invite you to 
come down from your ivory academic 
tower, and spend a week (at your own 
expense, naturally) at Pittsburghs largest 
high school which is over ninty-eight per 
cent black, and is where I teach when not 
attending night classes, or going to motion 
pictures. Seeing what is really going on, 
instead of merely watching it on television, 
or reading ab ut it in assigned texts, may 
remove some of your smugness and move 
you to given the written apology to the 
blacks on campus which they deserve.
Now, Ms. Gibbons, should you have any 
further comments about my credibility as a 
firm critic, I would like to invite you (at 
your own expense, or better yet to make 
me your guest, since I figure that if all 
women are as liberated as you state that I 
am owed about five thousand dollars is 
reparations) to see PLAY MISTY FOR ME, 
in my company and discuss the issue, not 
in the string of profanities that you 
mentioned in the letter which you sent me, 
but as one intelligent human being con
versing with another. You may reach me at 
the same address to which you sent your 
lettter.
Sincerely,
Terence N. Palso
An H&SS town meeting was conducted 
Tuesday in the Wherrett Room by the stu
dent members of the H&SS College Coun
cil, Frank Cox, Mina Gerall, Steve Jurman, 
Steve Hamm, and Neil Talenfeld.
Two new members were elected to one 
year terms to represent the Freshman class, 
and an H&SS Student Advisory Board was 
formed to aid and advise the student dele
gation to the College Council. The new 
representatives are Chris Visminas, English, 
and Seth Norman, History.
The representatives expressed regret 
that communication with their constitu
ency had been so limited, and a dialogue 
with the assembled students commenced. 
Two main areas of concern became evi
dent. Many students were dismayed at the 
continuing ambiguity of the grading situa
tion. A number indicated that, for them, 
transfer might be imminent. Though all 
desired some resolution, the group was 
deeply divided on the nature that resolu
tion should take. It was pointed out that 
the Grading Evaluation Committee had not 
yet reported its findings.
The second major area of concern aired 
at the meeting was the procedures and poli
cies of hiring, promotion, and tenure of 
faculty. Few students knew anything about 
the subject, but many felt that some in
justices were being committed. There was 
consensus that students should be more 
involved in the process, but no particular 
suggestions were made. Several students 
wished to pursue the topic further.
A continuing theme of the meeting, 
which most of the topics reflected, was the 
lack of a coherent set of goals for the 
College. Students complained that the 
Goals Committees last report sidestepped 
the issues, and that many questions now 
pending, such as the grading issue, could be 
more effectively handled if some such set 
of goals existed.
The new H&SS Student Advisory 
Board, chaired by Ruth Crosbie, is in
tended to be a means of conveying student 
opinion to Council representatives and of 
mobilizing students around important 
questions.
SIMON
Recently Dr. Herbert A. Simon made 
public some of his ideas on education and 
the society it reflects. This story was writ
ten after a follow-up interview with Dr. 
Simon.
Dr. Herbert A. Simon is a strict believer 
in science. He feels that science and the 
industrial revolution have given man the 
tools he needs to create a world where 
most people can rise above a substinance 
level of living. Scientific and technological 
development, then, should not be ignored 
by anyone who wishes to take part in de
termining the future of our society and 
world.
Dr. Simon expresses also a confidence in 
scientific method as the most organized, 
rational, and effocoent way to extend the 
ever-curious feelers of mankind. By inderstanding the mechanisms of scientific dis
covery, each person is not only in a better 
position to logically explore his surround
ings and experiences, but has a better 
chance to converge the knowledge he gains 
with his overall view of life.
Familiarity with science and technology 
also gives a person a tool to use in quest
ioning and evaluating the work of those 
who are professionals in these fields. More 
importantly, a knowledge of science gives 
any person a better chance in general to 
work with and understand todays world.
Higher education, Dr. Simon feels, 
should give everyone at least a basic under
standing of science and technology. Cur
rently, the liberal or humanities area of 
education sorely lacks exposure to scien
tific thought. (Dr. Simon admits that some 
scientists sorely lack in humanistic know
ledge, but that the great imbalance is in the 
opposite direction.) A liberal education 
should include the basic science necessary 
for the humanities major to understand the 
world in which he or she lives.
For example, how can a writer hope to 
portray any of the dilemas of modern man, 
if he has no real knowledge of the com
plexities of the modern, scientific world? 
Can a philosopher afford to ignore all the 
information that has been discovered about 
how man thinks, and what motivates him? 
Obviously, the artists and humanists who 
expect to have their work transcend ration
al reality have to know that reality, and 
science and technology are definitely a part 
of that reality today.
"Live in the future, its just starting 
now. Truer words were never spoken. 
Growth is the way a university stays heal
thy. If it stagnates, it dies. By any criteria 
you choose, CMU has moved into the fu
ture, and is staying healthy. Imagine that 
youre a visitor from Mars. You break 
through a dense cloud cover, and the first 
thing you spot is Science Hall. Futuristic, 
no? And a sign of growth, obviously.
But there are pains associated with 
growth and moving into the future. Mora
lists cry in anguish at the seemingly inevita
ble move towards depersonalization and 
regimentation. But these are philosophical 
issues that require debate and a general 
realignment of societal values to head off. 
One of the more banal, and drab aspect of 
growth is parking
Yes, parking. / dont think that / have 
to tell anyone about the problems of where 
to park on this campus If you get here 
after 10 a. m, you night as well forget it. 
What can we (the university) do about it? 
Build more lots? We have no alternative. 
We can't force anyone to not drive to 
school. Anyone who pays for a car has a 
right to drive his car anywhere he damn 
well pleases, including, to school. Youll 
have a hard time convincing anyone that, 
by not driving to school, he is alleviating 
the situation. Hed ride the bus one day,
GEEK
Sigma Alpha Epsilon drew a standing 
ovation from a traditionally conservative 
crowd Friday night in taking first place at 
Greek Sing 72. Chi Omega blended well 
with Tau Delta Phi to take first place accol
ades in the fraternity-sorority class. Har
monious Phi Kappa Theta took second in 
the fraternity competition, while Sigma Nu 
and Delta Gamma came out runners up in 
the mixed category.
The SAE performance was the first dra
matic production in Sing history. With ly
rics written by Marty Goetz to music by 
Leonard Bernstein, Mike Cassidy directed 
star Don Short and the Sig chorus in 
their West Side Story-like presentation. 
Short portrayed a freshman SAE pledge 
who fell in love with a Beta Theta Pi rush 
girl (Jeff Hamburg). The chorus told Short 
in their first synchroniqed dance number 
that
When youre a Sig 
youre a Sig all the way,
From your first glass of beer 
to your graduating day.
to the tune of the Jet Song. Dramatic 
tension developed as the SAE lions were 
painted while the enthusiastic group sang 
Tonight, tonight, wont be just any night, 
Tonight there will be no nurding done.
A final wave of catharsis swept the audi
ence with the group singing, Somewhere, 
well find the right group of brothers, and 
learn to hate all the others.
After the show, Shamus Mitchell, SAEs 
house father claimed that although he en
joyed the performance, that wasnt it bad 
enough that Bernstein had desecrated the 
Shakespearian masterpiece? This was near 
sacrilege!
The mixed group winner performed in 
matching costumes with the Chi Os in 
identical navy blue dresses and the Tau 
Delts in pink ruffled shirts... Directed by P. 
McAwket abd R. Fink the group masterful
ly sang Ainta That Good News and 
Four Variations by Stone. Phi Kap in 
taking second sang in sport clothes without 
jackets and ties. The inimitable Bob Zurwain led them in a powerful job of direct
ion. Sigma Nu and DG sang Dhadrack 
and Up, Up and Away. Led by C. Mason 
and G. Lisy, they sang in a particularly 
light and contemporary style.
see the same situation, say one more 
wont make any difference and resume 
driving the next day.
Alright, weve got to have more spaces. 
We already have 1090 spaces. The city gov
ernment says that, for the population and 
density that CMU has, we have to have 
1367 spaces; no ifs, buts, or howevers. Al
right. Plans are underway, now, to modify 
existing lots or build new lots. The minor 
alterations will yield 56 more spaces. The 
alterations will yield 56 more spaces. The 
new lots would give 345 more spaces for a 
total of 1941. ALL of the plans (some of 
which are pretty desperate) arent being 
utilized; and / was relieved to know that 
aesthetic appeasement as well as function 
was considered in the planning for the new 
lots. We night as well smile, look into the 
sun, and face the inevitable.
Long range plans are in the offing, like a 
shuttle bus that would cruise through Oak
land, Shadyside, and Squirrel Hill; picking 
up and dropping off students Sotv live in 
those neighborhoods. But what happens 
when the schools enrollment goes higher 
and the city regulations say more spaces? 
Well, that just goes to show you, the 
futures here, now, and weve got to grow 
into it if were going to stay alive.
Tom Davis 
Features Editor

---------------------------------------------------

Tartan, Tuesday, February 22, 1972  Page 7
SEND TODAY FOR 
FREE CATALOG ON
llatra
,ecydDp
irgvit
YOUR SEMESTER 
AT SEA
Academic Credit. 
Financial aid available.
WCA, Chapman College, Box CC11, Orange, Cal. 92666summer ecl:The programs described here are being 
offered under the auspices of a consortium 
of colleges and universities (Carnegie-Mellon included) in cooperation with the 
American Association of Colleges for 
Teacher Education and the International 
Council on Education for Teaching. There 
is a fee for course plus fare and living 
expenses.
PRIMARY EDUCATION IN ENGLAND 
Education in the Nursery School (ages 3-5) 
Education in the Infant School (ages 5-7) 
Education in the Junior School (ages 7-11)
London, England 
10-29 July 1972
SECONDARY EDUCATION
Social Change and Curriculum Development
The Teaching of English
London, England 
10-29 July 1972
DRAMA
British Theatre Since 1945 
Drama in Education and Theatre Arts
London, England 
10-29 July 1972
FOUNDATIONS OF EDUCATION 
Recent Developments in English Education
London, England 
10-29 July 1972
FOUNDATIONS OF EDUCATION 
Education in West Berlin, The Federal 
Republic of Germany and the German 
Democratic Republic
West Berlin, Germany 
30 July - 8 August 1972
FOUNDATIONS OF EDUCATION 
Society and Education in Denmark 
Copenhagen, Denmark 
30 July - 8 August 1972
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION : 
EDUCATION IN ENGLAND
A Program of the Institute of Education 
University of London
London, England 
10-22 July 1972
EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY 
Early Childhood Development and 
Educational Programming
FOUNDATIONS OF EDUCATION 
Education in the Soviet Union
Moscow, Leningrad, Sochi, Yalta 
30 July - 13 August 1972
FOUNDATIONS OF EDUCATION 
Education in Israel
Tel Aviv, Israel 
6-26 July 1972
Students taking these courses are eligi
ble for credit for the elective. Seminar in 
Education. Further information may be 
obtained from the Office of Teacher Edu
cation, Baker Hall 239.
PABST BREWING COMPANY  Milwaukee, Wis., Peoria Heights

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8 - Tartan, Tuesday, February 22, 1972
Photos: Jay Caras
interview with the acting president
We interviewed Dr. Edward Schatz, Vice 
President for Academic Affairs and current 
acting President of Carnegie Mellon Univer
sity in hk sixth floor, Warner Hall office. 
Dr. Schatz rose through the ranks here, 
from undergraduate in 1939, to professor 
of Electrical Engineering and Associate 
Dean of the College of Engineering in 
1961, and his lesser current post in 1964. 
He has been mentioned as a possible suc
cessor to ex-President H. Guyford Stever. 
TARTAN: Id like to congratulate you on 
your new and temporary post.
SCHATZ: Thank you very much. Many 
people have been very nice about that. 
Theyve given me a mixture of congratula
tions and condolences.
T: I was wondering, when can we expect a 
new president? S: See, Im not so sure that 
I am the right person to ask about that. I 
would guess that the earliest possible date 
that the Board would act would be in 
April, and I would imagine, I dont know 
how to assess the chances of it actually 
happening. It depends a little on how much 
of a search they want to make. Some 
people have been suggesting that we may 
have a president by September.
T: What challenges will our next president 
have to face?
S: Well, I think that the most important 
thing that hell have to do is find ways of 
keeping the quality of this institution as 
high as it is or possibly improved on the 
one hand, and fight some severe economic 
problems on the other hand. And thats a 
big tough job. Both challenges might even 
extend to the necessity of making very 
hard choices ... to reduce forinstance the 
number of departments or offerings we 
have, and to do that on the basis of quality 
and to do it in a reasonable atmosphere. 
Its muchmore difficult to make those 
kinds of hard choices that it is just to add 
items here and there. I think it is going to 
he a tough 3-5 years...those are the kinds 
of things that would probably have to be 
done. In fact, as I said, that even if you 
have all the money available to do a given 
job, you still have to do that kind of care
ful priority setting because when new 
things come along that are very important 
for an institution to do you may have to 
decide to cut something that youre now 
doing and I think those opportunities are 
going to come along all the time because 
students need change. A student desires 
change and after all an institution in the 
final analysis is in business for itsstudents.
You have to make some accommodations 
to that. Very good accomodation to that 
fact. In the past 20-25 years, I think those 
kinds of choices were not necessary be
cause most decisions were made by adding 
something to the already existing programs 
or offerings. T: Have you ever considered 
what form such an ongoing process of 
priority setting might take?
S:Yes, I have given that a little thought. I 
said to the Faculty Senate that I didnt 
know how to do it. But first of all I would 
guess that there has to be a mechanism in 
the faculty itself to give some thought to 
what constitutes good, very good, excellent 
work and provides a forum for ongoing 
almost continuing discussion of standards 
and where people would like to go. Now, I 
dont think that process all by itself is 
really going to yield the priorities 1,2,3. 
Somebody is going to have to decide be
tween a very good piece of work in Depart
ment A and a very good piece of work in 
Department B. I rather suspect that in the 
end it is going to take a president who is 
thoroughly knowledgable about all of the 
discussions which are going on. And that 
poor individual is going to have to make 
some choices. Now I call him poors he 
really will have a difficult time of doing
that if the discussions havent taken place 
at the faculty level. The proper style these 
days is not to be dictatorial about whats 
going on but to be understanding. But I 
think some choices will have to be made 
finally.
T:Do you see a role for the students in this 
process?
S: I do, Ive already mentioned that in that 
the university exists for the students. I 
think the role of the students is in a sense 
limited for a couple of different reasons. 
One, it may be impossible for an institu
tion like auniversity to respond as fast as it 
might ordinarily be necessary to please all 
students. The time scales of students atten
dance, of faculty existence at a college, 
those time scales are very different. I do 
actually feel though that the university is a 
good bit more responsive to students than 
other institutions in society. I believe the 
students can be helpful in setting more 
than short range policy. But I also think 
the universities are going to develop in such 
a way that the .young people in this coun
try will have all the options they really 
want, but not necessarily all at the same 
university. In other words, it may be neces
sary for universities to be a little more 
specialized than they have been and its
quite possible for a student to come to a 
place like CMU thinking it is the place he 
should be, when in reality hes going to 
discover that perhaps he should go some
where else. Now that sounds very cold and 
calculating but I think that it recognizes a 
fact that not all universities can be all 
things to all young people. It permits a 
university to be sort of specialized. Stu
dents can be very helpful but I dont think 
they can rightfully expect an institution to 
change quite as fast as they demand. They 
dont have all that time. Theyre only in 
school for 4 years.
T: Youve been mentioned a number of 
times as a possible next president of CMU. 
Are you a candidate?
S:Oh, yes. My name is there. I dont think 
theres any question about that. I have no 
idea where it is but it is there.
T: At this university, who makes the deci
sions on promotion and tenure?
S: Well that is a very involved kind of 
decision making. But theres no secret to it 
in any way...You can take a typical faculty 
member through the system and it goes 
something like this. The first thing that he 
or she needs is a positive recommendation 
from a departmental committee. Not all 
departments work in the same way...The 
next step in the process is that all colleges 
have college committees that are composed 
m various ways. Some of them work in a 
confidential manner. Others have represen
tation from both tenured and non-tenured 
faculty. 1 dont think any two colleges 
operate really quite the same way...Out of 
that comes a college recommendation. 
That plus an independent, usually an inde
pendent recommendation from the dean 
comes to my office... There are two Uni
versity committees. There is the University 
Tenure Committee and the University Non-Tenure Committee. These consider exactly 
those cases that are indicated...Those 
books you see (pointed to a number of 
well filled loose leaf binders) are all the 
cases which are being considered. All the 
documentation for the individuals come to 
this office... So that the committee mem
bers have a very thorough knowledge of 
what has gone on before. The committees 
meet and they adivse me on the basis of 
what theyve heard and what theyve read. 
^.After I get that advice I decide what to 
do. The final decision in a sense is the 
Board of Trustees... But I guess the final 
decision is mine.
T: You as academic Vice President or you
as President?
S: ...I as President. Its the President who 
carries recommendations to the Board of 
Trustees.
T: Where are students represented in that 
process?
S: Students are not represented at all on 
the central committees. They get represent
ed at the other levels in various ways. 
Never on the committees themselves. The 
departments generally either consult stu
dents by talking to them or many times 
they ask students to submit documenta
tion... You will find that a large number of 
the cases will have student letters which 
have sometines been solicited and which 
have sometines been volunteered, and they 
become part of the record. Interestingly 
enough the Alpha Phi Omega Teaching 
Evaluation Booklet is now fighting its way 
into the promotion documents. Some 
people believe thats a very good document 
and other people have their doubts about 
it. But those are the only ways students are 
involved.
T: You have said that, Tenure and acade
mic freedom are questioned by many in 
society, but the young among us - and 
some of the old among us, too - cry out for 
candor and for freedom for telling it like it 
is and for doing something about it.. Du 
you consider yourself to be one of the old 
among us?
S: Yes, Id like to be thought of as one of 
the old among us...Universities, I think 
in a sense, have always been caught in the 
middle. Which is exactly where they should 
be. The middle now being (between) a 
young generation... Unhappy with the 
older...Thats how it should be...Since the 
function of the University, I think, is to 
teach and educate students, theyve got to 
do that...In order to do that properly I 
think academic freedom is an absolute 
must, because if that is not so, then its not 
education that the universities are develop
ing, its indoctrination.
T: Is there more we can do now to achieve 
candor and freedom?
S: ...Gee, if you talk to some of those older 
generation, they might think theres been 
too much candor and freedom. We don't 
need any more. Im not sure theres any 
more that can be done. As a matter Id 
have to believe that if you look around and 
removed some of the elements of impa
tience that young people have...that young

---------------------------------------------------

Tartan, Tuesday, February 22, 1972 - Page 9
people have had a rather tremendous effect 
on this country. 1 believe that theres a lot 
more candor and openness now than there 
was ten years ago...I know that a lot of 
young people are a little frustrated because 
they think theyre not making any pro
gress, I think theyre doing pretty well.
T: You have spoken of our uniqueness due 
to our many and varied disciplines and the 
cross ferilization that is possible. Why then 
do we grow more physically segregated 
with Fine Arts moving across Forbes Ave. 
and a new separate library for CIT and 
MIS?
S: ...Its a space problem and I dont think 
theres any other answer to that question. 
And I might add that those moves gave a 
lot of us considerable pause for just exactly 
that reason... On the other hand there are 
some things positively going on with res
pect to this cross fertilization. The depart
ment of Architecture, for example, has 
now moved part of its activities out of the 
College of Fine Arts. Cross fertilization is 
toing on and its causing problems, I might 
add, both in the Department of Architec
ture which doesnt like to be separated and
reasons are not going into engineering and 
science. Since engineering and science is 
half of our undergraduate enrollment, a 
significant decrease there really hurts... I 
might try to get this in at the moment... 
One of the things that I dont understand 
completely about this situation, I believe 
that a good many students are not unmind
ful of the fact that they do have to make a 
contribution to society, and they have to 
earn a living, and if one takes a long range 
look at engineering needs in this country, a 
student starting engineering now will be 
very heavily in demand in another five to 
seven years...This is inspite of the fact that 
there are now a fair amount of engineers 
now out of jobs - because of cutbacks in 
the space program and some defense pro
grams... A good rrtany ot the problems of 
this country, at least the physical ones, are 
going to demand engineers...So if I had to 
give a young high schooler advice right now
- if hes interested in that kind of a life, 
wants to be sure of things in the future, he 
ought to take a quick look at engineering...
T: Why have we been having a higher than 
usual attrition rate among underclassmen?
in Baker Hall where there are a few con
flicts arising between the Architects and 
the Scientists who occupy that building. 
The same thing is true of Painting and 
Sculpture The same thing is true of Paint
ing and Sculpture, they now have new 
space in Baker Hall...I dont know, Ive 
been around here a long time and I see 
more of this kind of thing going on now 
than I ever have before... I think the geo
graphical thing youve mentioned is just 
something were going to have to over
come. It could be a problem. But that I 
think was an entirely expedient decision.
T: Why is tuition income down?
S: Because there are fewer students. Its 
that simple. If you look at the enrollments 
over the last couple of years its true that 
they have been decreasing. The major por
tion of the decrease has really come at the 
graduate level. Of course that comes be
cause theres just less support for graduate 
students from the Federal Government. So 
less desire on the part of seniors to go on 
to graduate school...The undergraduate 
population I dont think has changed signi
ficantly. I believe its little on the down 
side...If you look around he country at 
the current applications for next years 
class, engineering and science applications 
are down drastically. This again reflects the 
fact that young people for whatever
S: ...I do not think that well be raising 
tuition for next year. But its pretty hard 
to make a promise for the long future. But 
the Deans have thought about this very 
hard and I think some institution should 
see whether they can figure out a way of 
surviving with quality, without continually 
increasing the tuition...Im not sure yet 
that we are suffering because of the high 
tuition. But its pretty hard to document
T: Is it true that our present budget is 
down 3.8% ?
S: That 3.8% as I recall turned out to be ... 
in the so called academic budget last year 
as contrasted to the total budget of the 
institution... Administrative areas last year 
had a larger budget reduction percentage. 
The overall budget for this year, as com
pared to last year, was actually only a few 
hundred thousand dollars less out of twen
ty million. Now the reason for that is that 
we put on board the new Science Hall 
which is a matter is that theres a consider
able change between last years budget and 
this, even though it only shows a few dol
lars change. We managed to be a few hun
dred thousand dollars less and still put a 
very expensive building on the line. So 
theres quite a differenceT: Which means that somebody somewhere 
is getting less money. How are we handling 
the reductions? Are they across the board?
S: Last year in the case of the non-acad
emic areas the cuts were, as I said, a larger 
percentage. The cuts in the academic areas 
tended to be a little bit across the board, 
ah, I said tended to be a little bit across the 
board. It turns out some academic areas 
actually went up in budget, others went 
down. Were probably going to do that 
same thing for next year, in the sense that 
most of the academic areas are going to be 
asked to be about the same level they were 
at this year. Now that represents a king of 
reduction because theres been an inflation 
and there have to be some faculty salary 
increases and that has to come out of 
either retirements which are taking place 
this year or reduction in faculty, some of 
which was planned over a year ago because
you have to give people that much notice. 
Some of our units can increase their re
search. But its going to be a tough budget 
to make.
T: Can you tell me in general which acade
mic areas were cut and which increased?
S:...My recollection is that for this current 
budget the CFA was permitted to increase 
rather than decrease and I believe SUPA 
also increased. And that of course was for a 
different reason - SUPA is a young school 
which is just beginning and it had sche
duled increases in programming. Im trying 
to think whether anybody else actually in
creased their budget in the academic area. 
And I think the answers no. There are lots 
of reasons for that. One the CFA has pro
bably suffered in comparison with the 
others over the years in salaries and keep
ing up salaries. The other reason is that 
H&SS and Fine Arts both have far less 
opportunity to support part of their 
budget out of research than do engineering 
and science, GSIA, and so forth. Thats the 
way things are done.
T: In educational terms, what does it mean 
for students if we save money by reducing 
the number of faculty and increasing re
search?
S: Well, lets take those separately. In the 
case of reducing faculty, which can be 
done independently of increase in research, 
the net result could be almost unnoticeable 
to very noticeable. For example, it could 
result in slightly larger classes. By slightly 
larger, I dont mean double. It could also 
mean offering less and perhaps that is no
ticeable. Less offerings make in a sense the 
University a less rice place intellectually for 
students. I dont think its really possible at 
this time to really notice either of those 
effects. The effect of research really means 
that its possible to support more graduate 
students by that process. Its possibleto 
support faculty, somewhat during the turn 
time of that process. And the net result of 
that in a sense could be the same as the 
reduction of faculty.
Again, I think it would be possible for 
an institution to increase its research by 
several million dollars a year. Its about 12 
million now without really a noticeable 
effect on undergraduate education.
S: There are a couple of interesting answers 
to that. None of which are based on re
search. For example, number one, if you 
look at some of the studies which have 
been done in the last five to seven years 
you discover that a larger number of col
lege graduates have attended more than 
one college, so that the idea of transfer 
going on now is much more accepted... 
Number two, I believe that the economic 
situation at the present moment probably 
plays a part in this in the sense that some 
upperclassmen even if they do wish to con
tinue in the present area that theyre in 
may decide to get to a state school which 
has a lower tuition, or to a school which is 
closer to home. We dont actually have any 
data but a phone survey which we made 
last September with a number of students 
who did not return sort of indicated a 
desire to get closer to home...We also have 
another phenomena going on which is 
rather interesting, which may actually get 
to be larger enough to be a financial pro
blem to us and that is increasingly students 
are graduating early...Interestingly enough 
these do have definite financial implica
tions to the institution...I probably should 
not have highlighted that the way I did - 
because I dont think that problem is se
rious.
T: Will tuition be raised?

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10 - Tartan, Tuesday, February 22, 1972
Editor-in-Chief.............................Jan Rosen
News Co-Editors..........................Frank Cox
Jeff Ganek
Politics..................:........................Jim Slivka
Features Editor............................Tom Davis
Sports Editor...............................Jude Heller
Graphics..................................Mark Seymour
Paste-up.....................................Arnold Sonn
Photography Editor................Neal Binstock
Business Manager.......................Alice Bright
Entertainment...................Stephen Saunders
Julio Vera
News Staff..............................John Agatston
Anne Friedman, Mina Gerall 
Steve Jurman, Jon Manon 
Betsy Piez, Bob Stern
Features Staff........Leslie Bram, Marc Field
Walter Koehler 
Terence N. Palso
Sports Staff.............Chuck Bond, Dan Buis
Lauren Hutton, Allen Kohan 
Jim Powers, Jon Swierzewski
Photography Staff....................Elliot Arons
Jay Caras, Jim Hermann 
Roger Lawrence, Ed Levine
Copy Staff................................Leslie Bram
Sandy Preuhs, Suzanne Bozzo
Advertising..............................Chris Sanders
Mike Swartzlander
Published every Tuesday during the aca
demic year at Carnegie-Mellon University, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 15213. Editorial 
and Business offices in Skibo 50, Carnegie-Mellon University, Telephone (412) 
682-4577
mMfudi pan QjMeillS^TVAE.gtASPHEMY of
artn
c(^u Wfcha.^ 
s +V\e 
Yo\Cd (V\~tk< 
t tad'

vVthat rmc tflu 
proves he 
has Insightsays Fr^cL
TH<z WH.oo Ho o is 
OuVfg^dl
I can 
|^rv\an 
OccuttFwH ''
(llwfhe
LESSER
Hoo-ffo!
Yoic<z
-ir<Lz

---------------------------------------------------

Tartan, Tuesday, February 22, 1972  Page 11
Who? YOU!
'Mflj/I+O TELEPHONE REPRESENTATIVE WrlUI i FOR WORLDWIDE COMPANY
When? NOW!
Where? Allegheny Center
Whlj? To make money of course
We need bright, enthusiastic men and women who 
enjoy speaking with others. No actual selling involv
ed and no setting appointments. Work in a friendly 
atmosphere. No dress restrictions or stuffy bosses.
You will receive $2 hourly plus extremely liberal 
commissions and bonuses. No experience necessary, 
we will train you.
You can work 9 am - 2 pm or 4 pm - 9 pm 
Check this out by calling 322-1776
THE UNITED NATIONS EDUCATIONAL, SCIENTIFIC AND CULTURAL ORGANIZATION
a specialized agency of the United Nations dedicated to peace
and
THE STUDENT AID SOCIETY
a non-profit non-political organization dedicated 
to helping students to help themselves 
offer
STUDY ABROAD$ 6 value
New 19th Edition 
Each copy is trilingual 
in English, French and Spanish
Paris France, 1972 644 Pages
$1.50 value
$ 5 value
allfor
only$6
"Your reference service 
saved me much valuable 
time which / put in on 
other subjects. Result: 5 
As and 1 B."
CN, Ann Arbor, Mich
"The Vantage Point" is a 
book put together by 5 
ghost writers and edited 
by LBJ. Your reference 
service is almost like my 
own personal ghost writer.
LC, Gainesville, Fla.
The 3 reference books 
of which every student 
needs personal copies 
are Study Abroad, a 
good dictionary and 
thesaurus. / got a $10,000 
4-year scholarship from 
Study Abroad."
AR, Berkeley, Calif.
The most complete scholarship directory in the world lists more 
than 234,000 scholarships, fellowships, loans and grants in more 
than 129 countries or territories! Tells who is eligible, fields of 
study, financial assistance, HOW, WHEN AND WHERE TO APPLY! Reflects the latest scholarship approach costed by 
financial need!
VACATION STUDY ABROAD
 Each copy is trilingual in English, French and Spanish
More and more Americans are flocking overseas for summer 
vacations, and an increasing proportion is young Americans! With 
the price war now raging on overseas airfares, record-breaking 
numbers of young Americans will surge across Europe this 
summer! VACATION STUDY ABROAD tells how qualified people will go free! Provides information on short courses, 
seminars, summer schools, scholarships and travel grants available each year to students, teachers and other young people and adults planning to undertake study or training abroad during their 
vacations. These data were provided by some 500 organizations in 
54 countries!
STUDENT AID SOCIETY membership dues. Services offered:
 Scholarship information service.
Answers questions concerning scholarships worldwide! Travel service.
Plans interesting tours to exotic lands! Reference Service.
Drafts term papers, essays, book reports, theses, etc. frequently using primary sources available only in the 
Library of Congress! We do not actually write the finished 
assignment since that would deprive the student of valuable 
educational experience and defeat the very purpose for 
writing for oneself in the first place. We will provide 
background information and bibliographies which rank 
with such tools as the College Outline Series and encyclopaedia reference services available only with expensive sets. 
Limit of one draft at small additional charge, per semester per student in good standing. We cannot answer any 
question which we feel requires the advice of a doctor, 
lawyer, architect, engineer, or other licensed practitioner, 
nor can we advise concerning your financial investments. 
Neither can we undertake market research or surveys or 
provide home study courses.
IStudent Aid Society, PO Box 39042 Ij Friendship Station, Washington, D.C. 200161
I Gentlemen: I enclose $6 for Study Abroad, 
j Vacation Study Abroad and annual dues.
I Name__________________________________I IAddress
I City, State-Zip
GIRLS . . .
ARE YOU LOOKING FOR A SUMMER 
COUNSELOR POSITION?
Applicants are now being consid
ered for the 1972 camp season. Must 
be able to teach one of the follow
ing: Piano Accompanist and group 
singing, Archery, Tennis, Trampo
line, Cheerleading, Riflery, Scouting 
and Nature Study, A. R. C. Swim
ming Instructor, Lakefront Instructor. 
WRITE CAMP DIRECTOR 
2409 Shelleydale Drive 
Baltimore, Md. 21209
FREE PROFESSIONAL 
COUNSELING
EVBtY WEDNESDAY 
AND THURSDAY
From 1 to 3 p.m.
By Appointment
621-8875
FLYING
tJlsus People
|| SINGING ABOUT JESUS
at the CAT'S CRADLE
ON FRI.f SAT., MARCH 3 $4  SHOUTS AT 9tt)0$1l:30
MUSIC tty THE PHOEIIIX 
MOVIES BY CHIP SUTTON
life REALLY FECL UIE HAVE FOUND HU*, AND UI^D 
LIKE TO SHARE HIM WITH YOU
In
Jeans! 
Body Suits!
at the
SAVE
at
11 to J a m .very day Q|NO and PETE S
Take Out Orders 411 South Craig St.  Oakland 
682-8691 Hoagies The biggest and busiest 
Pizzas Made to Order Pizza Parlor in OAKLAND!
GATE
f Casual Wear! 
Dresses!fashion
10% STUDENT DISCOUNT ON ALL CASH PURCHASES!
A AIL STYLES ... AIL PRICES A 
Just off the Campus 416 S. CRAIG STREET (right off Forbes)

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12 - Tartan, Tuesday, February 22, 1972
Sports
WRESTLING
Allen Kohan
Photos: Ed Levine
Last week was the busiest of the season 
for the wrestling team. Beginning Saturday 
a week ago, CMU wrestled Pitts B team 
in four exhibition matches. The matches 
were split as Kohan and Etkin won, while 
Rogers and Curilla lost.
A week ago, Monday, the team lost to 
Bethany by a score of 39-18. Under Coach 
Stevas prodding, the team did wrestle 
more aggressively, however. Mike Veltri 
(118) was dominating his match until the 
last minute of the contest, when he was 
caught on his back trying to roll through 
for a reversal. A1 Kohan(134), Steve Etkin 
(158), and Vic Rogers (167) accounted for 
CMUs 18 points with each scoring a pin. 
Etkin was especially impressive as he was 
wrestling up two weight classes, but scored 
a fall with only 1:18 gone in the first 
period. Joe Curilla (142), Pete Kelston 
(150), and Greg Riggins (177) lost by pins, 
while Clyde Ligons (190) lost a close 11-8 
decisions.
Wednesdays match against Allegheny 
resulted in a 27-27 tie, as Coach Steves 
efforts finally came to fruition. Scoring for 
CMU were Veltri and Kohan by fall, and 
Etkin by decision. Mike wrapped his man 
up half-way through the second period, 
while Kohan built up a 26-3 lead before 
pinning his opponent in the last period. 
Etkin remained in control throughout his 
match as he won 9-5. Two forfeits by Al
legheny at 126 and 134 enabled CMU to 
deadlock the meet.
Rogers, Riggins, and Curilla lost by pin 
while Kelston lost a 13-5 decision. Riggins 
(177) was moving well for having only re
cently joined the team; and Curilla, a regu
lar 142 pounder wrestling up to 190, did 
well to stay on the mat. HWT was forfeited 
to Allegheny.
Unfortunately, the team lost its momen
tum Friday, as W&J swept by them 48-3. 
Veltri, winning throughout his match, was 
reversed in the last few seconds to lost a 
6-5 decision. Ken Sauter (126) fought well, 
but was finally pinned in the third period. 
Kohan (134) scored CMUs 3 points by 
coming from behind in the last period scor
ing a reversal and a predicament, to win
5-4.
Etkin was not wrestling up to his per
formances earlier in the week, as he lost a
6-0 decision. Kelston was pinned in the 
second period, Rogers in the third, Riggins 
in the second, and Curilla (wrestling up to 
177) in the first. 190 and HWT were for
feited to W&J.
Wrestling an exhibition match prior to 
the W&J meet, a virtual beginner, Larry 
Goodwin, wrestled quite well against his 
much-experienced opponent.
This past Friday marked the last wrest
ling match of the season as Coach Steva 
and the grapplers wrestled against Grove 
City.
Photo: Ken Sauter

---------------------------------------------------

Tartan, Tuesday, February 22, 1972 - Page 13
hooplaBarry BeniaminBarry Benia
As the sports axiom goes, when the 
going gets tough, the tough get goind. With
I.M. basketball moving into the second half 
of its season this saying is proving to be 
true. As of the deadline for this article, Salt 
and Pepper and the 10 plus 2 remain 
undefeated in their respective leagues. Both 
teams got tough when the going got tough 
this past week. Salt and Pepper defeated 
the Wild Bunch 65-59 in a battle of the 
graduate teams. After spurting off to an 8 
point halftime lead, Salt and Pepper saw 
their lead vanish in the beginning of the 
fourth quarter. Salt and Pepper then put it 
together and came up with the big victory. 
In the other Major League, the 10 plus 2 
surprisingly saw themselves down by three 
at the half against the Right Arm. This was 
mostly due to the hot hand of Mark Lang 
who finished with 20 points. The game 
remained close all the way with Mike Con
rads 16 points and Eric Strongs 15 points 
leading the 10 plus 2 to the 61-56 vic
tory. In the battle for second place in the 
Bucks league, SAE defeated GSIA 73-67 in 
a double overtime thriller. SAE took a big 
lead into the fourth quarter, but GSIA 
came back to tie the game, riding the out
side shooting of Jack Modzelewski and the 
inside work of Tony Bugel. SAEs cool 
prevailed in the overtime, however, as Dave 
Aber quarterbacked his team to the vic
tory.
Although it seems like the season has 
just begun, playoffs will be starting in two 
weeks on March 6. The basketball intra
mural season will be capped off Friday, 
March 10, with the 24th annual IM Night. 
At 7:00 the championship Major League 
game will be held on the big court. At 8:30 
the Intramural All-stars will meet the Pitts
burgh Steeler Tons of Beef. The Steelers 
lead by Big Ben McGee, All-Pro Andy Rus
sell, Preston Pearson, and Terry Henratty 
will take on the smaller but obviously more 
talented Intramural All-Star team. It 
should be a great finish to a most competi
tive and exciting IM basketball season.
tenpins
Bob Dax
Last Saturday at the second annual 
Cornell Invitational Bowling Tournament, 
CMUs undergraduate bowling champs 
competed with 19 other schools in Eastern 
United States. The tournament consisted 
of 6 bowlers competing in three-three game 
matches. The first even was team competi
tion where CMU finished 9th with team 
totals of 811, 865, and 866 for a total of 
2542. Rochester Institute won with a total 
of 2917, over 200 pins better than the 
second place team. In doubles competition, 
the next event, the Pair Hirst-McCurley fin
ished 5th out of 57 doubles teams with the 
1080 series. In singles, Mitch Fried, Jim 
McCurley, and Greg Hirst finished 11, 13, 
and 14 out of a field of 120 with scores of 
546, 541 and 532 respectively.
However, CMU did have one bright spot 
in the tournament compared to its slightly 
better than average showing in the other 
events. Greg Hirst, with a nine game total 
of 1826, took the All-Events Trophy. With 
a series of 688, 606, and 532, Greg easily 
beat his nearest competitor by 98 pins. In 
his nine games Greg started out with games 
of 222,256,210,216, and 222.
Besides having high nine game totals, 
Greg also had high series 688, and high 
game of 256. In fact, at one point in the 
competition, Greg had nine strikes in a row 
and 14 out of 15. Other bowlers represent
ing CMU were James McCurley, Mitch 
Fried, D. Mark Squires, Bob Dax, and Ron 
Norff  Missirion.
fish
Chuck Bond
I talked to Swimming coach Steve Fa
gan about Saturdays last second loss to 
Thiel. The Mermans defeat had been a 
particularly dissappointing one for him, 
not simply because he felt that his team 
should have won, but because after the 
first twelve events his team had tied the 
score going into the final 13th event. One 
of the coachs pet strategies had served him 
well: by not entering his best four men in 
the first relay (400-yd Medley) he had con
served their energy, enabling them to pick 
up a lot of points in the middle events and 
thus catch up with Thiel. So the stage was 
set for the last race; like a sudden-death 
field goal from the 40-yard line. The final 
event was the 400-yd freestyle relay and 
coach Fagan had his best men ready: Dave 
Climer, Lloyd Miller, Bob McIntyre, and 
Kent Schnake. It was a do-or-die set, and 
Thiels relay men simply did better, by 
about eight seconds, to capture a 60-53 
victory. You cant come much closer, and 
CMU might have taken the meet had some 
of the close finishes been switched.
To follow a Saturday meet with another 
on Tuesday is like a set of night-afternoon 
baseball games. The guys cant practice on 
Sunday, and Youre supposed to go easy 
on them on Monday, says the coach. But 
there it was on the schedule: Slippery 
Rock, Tuesday Feb. 15th, 4:00 pm.Jiome. 
The Tartans had a more difficult time this 
time, losing by 66-45 (my unofficial score. 
The visitors seemingly let the last several 
events slide so as not to run up the score.) 
There were too many 2nd or 3rd-place 
finishes by the Tartans rather than 2nd and 
3rd or 1st and 3rd. Still, I liked a lot of 
what I saw in the team. Pete Hoysan, who 
earlier had placed third in the 1000-yd 
freestyle (40 lengths of the pool), still had 
enough stamina to do a third in the
20-length 500-yd freestyle. After fallinf to 
what seemingly would be a third-place fin
ish, the Mermens answer to Johnny Weis
muller kicked hard to take first place by 
inches, with a 2:01.1 clocking.
Coach Fagans team doesnt win em all, 
not by a long shot. But they sure as hell 
try. Kinda makes you wonder why only 
one CMU spectator came to see the Alle
gheny meet, and only a handful were pres
ent for the Slippery Rock meet. Is it be
cause (here it comes) college students are 
apathetic in general? Is it because people 
only wish to identify with winning (cham
pionship) teams? OR is it because the events are not well publicized? Hmm, for 
now Ill assume its the latter.
The final Mermen meets will be away at 
Thiel on Friday, Feb. 25 and at Cleveland 
State on Saturday, Feb. 26.
IM
l.M. rosters due Tuesday, February 22: 
Co-rec badmitton, Foul shooting, Co-rec 
tennis. Wrestling action February 25 against Alliance, home at 7:30 pm. Rifle 
match, Saturday, March 4, against Pitt, 
home at 11:00 am.
bored
W/L
MAJOR LEAGUES
LAKERS 
Salt and Pepper 
Raiders II 
Wild Bunch 
BTP Obeah Men 
ATO
Last Saturdays contest between the rif
le teams of CMU and Geneva saw CMU 
smallbores come out on top with a score of 
1283-1261. This brought our record to a 
whopping 7 wins-2 losses and a second 
place spot with only three matches left in 
the season. Ten people competed from 
each school each trying for a maximum of 
300 points. The top five shooters this week 
were Wray Paul (269), Gary Musgrave
(256), Ray Sears (254), Norm Cable (253), 
and Eric McNeal (251).
W L
3 0
4 1 
2 2 
1 3 
1 0
BUCKSw L
10 plus 25 0
SAE3 2
GSIA3 2
Right Arm2 3
Dirks Jerks2 3
SNA0 5
INTERMEDIATE LEAGUES
KNICKSW L
PKT A4 0
Purple Gnurples4 0
BSR A3 1
Pedora Hts.3 1
Shrinks1 3
Fringe1 3
BTP C Men1 4
ATOC0 5
CELTICSW L
Players4 0
On Tap3 1
Fukowis3 1
Oak A3 2
MBs2 3
TDP0 3
KS0 4
SUNSW L
Roaches,4 0
Respect3 1
PKA2 2
Freeps2 2
Oak B2 2
BTP Red1 3
BSR B0 4
TDP B
HAWKSW L
Lucky 134 0
SAE B3 0
ATO B3 4
PKT B2 2
Bandits2 3
Hi Guise A1 3
Music1 2
Junior Hammers1 3
MINOR LEAGUES
WARRIORSW L
Gups5 0
EZBF5 2
DTD P4 1
Civil Ham3 1
Scrow2 3
PKA2 3
Free Rad.2 3
Hi Guise B0 3
APO0 4
ROYALSW L
Old Men6 0
Stronzos5 0
Clackers3 3
ATO J3 3
Cows2 2
SAE J1 2
PKT BER1 3
SN B1 5
DTD B0 4
RUGS
for less
with your ID Card
1000 9x12 Rugs 
SIS S19 S29 $49
also 6x9s, 12x12s, 12x15% etc.
 WHOLESALE FURNITURE 
BEDROOMS, LIVING ROOMS, ETC 
AVAILABLE AT NEARBY SHOWROOMS
Director CHairs, Butterfly Chairs, 
Lamps, etc. Larger Furniture thro
\A/t| l-||n Ilk Cl| A|(>(ifnowijw snowrownu.
CHASES
542 WALNUT STREET, SHADY SIDE
OPBN DAILY 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. 
(Saturday 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.)
For Information .. . Col 621-1025
hand knitting yams
812 ivy street 
ihtidytidc
FREE PROFESSIONAL 
DRAFT COUNSELING
B'NAI B'RITH HILLEL FOUNDATION 
315 South Bellfield Avenue 
3rd Floor
Every Tuesday Evening
7:00 to 9:00 p.m.
621-8875
SCOTTY'S
mnmmiavwui mm AVIMU9
end toon . 
NOCTH Of iTMA
OPEN TO SERVE YOU 24 HOURS A DAY
Bsteewi Clvset 
at Study Bri It
JOES PIZZA
is now delivering
Compare Our Prices
9" PIZZA ............................80
12" PIZZA .........................1.40
Extras  .25 and .30
SANDWICHES*
HOAGIE 1...,...........................SO
HAM ......................................65
MEAT BALL............................SO
HOT SAUSAGE ...................SO
CHEESE...........,....................35
SODAS ..................................20
Delivery Charge to Dorms:
? 15< ?CALL 621-3223
4800 Baum Boulevard

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14 - Tartan, Tuesday, February 22, 1972
DICTIONARIES 
WEBSTER
Library size, 1971 edition, brand 
new, still in box. Cost new: $45.00.
Will Sell for $15
Deduct >0% on orders of 6 or more. 
Meil te
NORTH AMERICAN 
LIQUIDATORS
1450 Nioora Falls Blvd.
Toaowando, Hew York 14150
COD orders enclose SI.00 good will 
deposit. Poy balance plus CO D. ship
ping on delivery. Be satisfied on inspec
tion or return within 10 doys for full 
refund. No dealers, each volume speci
fically stomped not for resale.
Please add $1.25 postage and handling. 
New York State residents odd applicable 
sales tax.
'MMATES
UNLIMITED
A Roommate Placement Service For Singles 
By Appointment 566-1277 
A SERVICE AGENCY  A SOLUTION
WANTED: actors, producers, 
directors, and camera 
men for now!
Pittsburgh Movie Co.
WRITE TO
KATIE RUTTENBERG
4909 Centre Ave.
Apt. No. 8 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213
GINSENG 
ROOT CAPSULES
50 for $4 + 25 Postage from::
BRENT'S HERBS, LTD.
16 Cuthbert Street 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15211 431-4207
AN ANCIENT HERB
mentioned in THE BIBLE that rejuve
nates and prolongs life. A tonic to 
the central nervous system, pituitaries, adrenals, and gonads. Used by 
Prof. U Chi Yun of Minkuo, China, 
until his death in 1933 at 256 years 
of age. Call or write for info, about 
OTHER HERBS1
soir
SP PR INGPH6 Toms
/Wes ftFdUlF-JweiASSES
/We A/o A/e it ennSi
8
The University of Pittsburgh 
THEATRE
PRESENTS
Anna Cora MowattsFashion!
- OR - 
LIFE IN NEW YORK
Directed by CURTIS CANFIELD
MUSICAL NUMBERS 
STEPHEN FOSTER MEMORIAL 
8:30 p.m.' 
MARCH 3, 4, 8 thru 11 
MARCH 15 thru 18
? ALL SEATS RESERVED ? 
Reservations, Call 621-3500,
Ext. 331, from 1-5 p.m. 
Monday thru Saturday
"YOU THINK YOU 
HAVE PROBLEMS?"
Bring Them To Us ^ 
Student Government
Wednesday, Feb. 23 4:30 SKIBO

---------------------------------------------------

J
How To Win Friends 
Influence People 
Balance
Iftfki
The Hearts of 
Students At C.M.U
STUDENT GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS 
MARCH 13-14
PETITIONS AVAILABLE SKIBO INFO DESK
Graduate Seats open; 4 Full, 1 Half 
E-Tower Seats open; 1 Full 
Fraternity Seats open; 2 Full, 2 Half 
Womens Dorm Seats open; 2 Full, 2 Half 
Mens Dorm Seats open. 4 Full, 2 Half 
Commuter Seats open. S Full, 1 Half
President of 
Student Gov.
Director of Academic 
Affairs Board
College Council

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16 Tartan, Tuesday, February 22, 1972
SURVEY
Marc Elliott Field
In the current issue of the Carnegie 
Alumni News are the results of a survey 
conducted by that paper. A questionaire 
was sent to CMU alumni and some of our 
parents in an attempt to gather data on 
attitudes of alumni and parents of current 
students concerning some of the issues ar
ising in higher education over the past sev
eral years.
It seems that whenever the university 
wants a response to its policies they will 
ask anyone and everyone except the people 
who those policies affect the most: the 
students. What we are attempting to do 
with this survey is to gather student opin
ion on these relevent areas on which we, as 
usual, were not consulted. After the results 
of this survey have been compiled, we will 
print the student response in the 
TARTAN. Perhaps in this way, we can 
make the administration better aware of 
the feelings of CMU students.
Directions: We have no wish for you to 
identify yourself, yet we must guard 
against people who would fill out more 
than one questionaire. For this reason, we 
ask that you put your student ID number 
in the place provided. After each question, 
please fill in your response. Answer the 
questions on a scale of 1 through 7. A 
reply of 1 means that you strongly 
agree; replies of 2 or 3 indicate more 
mild agreement. A reply of 4 indicates 
neutrality. Replies of 5 and 6 indicate 
mild disapproval, while a reply of 7 
shows strong disapproval.
STUDENT NUMBER -
1. The past five or six years have been 
filled with instances of strong campus pol
itical and social activity. CMU has had 
demonstration and demands for change 
and has made some changes and decisions. 
What is your reaction to decisions which 
would:
a. Place students as voting members on
the Board of Trustees. ---------
b. Commit substancial sums of money 
to educational programs for blacks and 
other minority groups at CMU.
c. Accept defense or war oriented re
search in campus facilities.
d. Rule against a pre-election campus 
recess aimed at increased student involve
ment in State and National elections.
e. Deliberately not call police on cam
pus during a demonstration in which minor 
damage is caused to a campus facility.
2. Radical changes in the relationship between the administration and the students 
have recently taken place. To what extent 
do you agree or disagree with the following 
statements:
a. Students on most U.S. campuses have 
heard more liberal than conservative 
points of view both from faculty and invited speakers.
b. CMU is fulfilling its obligation to 
respond responsibly to drug use within the 
campus community.
c. At many institutions, including CMU, 
it appears that many decisions are made to 
placate a minority at the expense of the 
majority.
d. Student publications should be kept 
under control by the administration.
3. Just about everyone agrees that college 
students of today are different .than those 
of just a decade ago. However, there is 
little agreement on just how they are diff
erent. What is your position on the 
following statements:
a. The students on campuses today care 
little about the moral standards est
ablished by society.
b. Students are being used extensively 
by those groups wishing to overthrow our 
government.
c. Administrators on the college cam
puses have allowed students to assume too 
much power.
d. Fewer than five per cent of students 
take part in violent campus disruption.
When you have finished the survey, 
please bring it to the TARTAN office or 
mail it to Box 17, campus mail. It is im
portant to let the administration know 
what the student sentiment is at CMU. We 
appreciate your taking the time to respond 
to this questionaire.
MORE MARYJANE
gest criminal penalties for those who 
smoke cigarettes or drink alcohol? Yet 
both of these drugs have far more proven 
harmful effects than marijuana. Our cur
rent lawas must be based on medical re
search, rather than on the many false 
myths surrounding marijuana.
I have reached this decision after much 
thought and considerable study. Ive 
watched the numbers of marijuana arrests 
and convictions reach tremendous propor
tions, yet I have been unable to find any 
evidence which justifies the harm that is 
inflicted by these laws.
We have to deal realistically with the 
marijuana issue before we can get to the 
more serious drug issues. The rhetoric and 
emotion surrounding the marijuana debate 
make significant progress in other areas an 
impossibility for both law enforcement and 
education efforts.
My views are also based on a pragmatic 
belief that the many priorities facing law 
enforcement officials today cannot permit 
the allocation of energy and resource to be 
utilized for the enforcement of the mari
juana laws. Today, we must redirect our 
efforts against the more debilitating drugs. 
Violent crimes against persons and pro
perty in this country are at an all time 
high, yet countless numbers of citizens are 
arrested for smoking marijuana. If these 
laws were changed, most lawmen would be 
pleased to spend their time on more serious 
matters.
I have lectured at more than 40 college 
campuses over the past few years, many 
during the turbulent 60s when drug ex
perimentation of all kinds was flourishing. 
Today I see a more cautious and reasoned 
approach. LSD and heroin are rarely seen 
on campuses. The illegal drug used in pre
dominantly marijuana. And more often 
than not, it is being used by upper-level 
students, whose grades are high, and who 
have incorporated the casual use of mari
juana into their lives without apparent 
harm. Mor and more we are seeing that this 
is also the case among young professionals, 
atheletes and in industry.
In making my views know, it is not my 
intention to promote or to encourage the 
use of marijuana. However, I am promoting 
the immediate decriminalization of that 
drug. We must stop sending people to jail 
for smoking marijuana. From my vantage 
point, I predict that eventual legalization 
with government control, similar to that 
used for alcohol, is inevitable. When this 
country decides to honestly deal with the 
marijuana question, perhaps then we can 
begin to make some progress in the battle 
against serious drug abuse in the United 
States.
MORE CARNIVAL
on Thursday night, the CMU Arts and 
Crafts Festival, a bike rally, and an assort
ment of fun participation events on the 
intramural field and the cut on Friday and 
Saturday afternoons.
The Arts and Crafts Festival will be 
staged adjacent to the Midway on Friday 
and Saturday of the weekend. Artists and 
craftsmen from both on and off campus 
will be able to display and sell their work 
at this time. Hopefully this will attract 
people to CarnivaT who previously found 
nothing of interest for them.
On Friday afternoon MDC will sponsor 
a picnic on the IM field. At the picnic, 50 
to 100 kites will be available to anyone 
interested in flying one. There will also be 
equipment for all types of games and 
sports. Following the picnic, students can 
participate in and watch the Frisbie con
test, the Girl's Relays (formerly Sorority 
Relay*), and the Faculty Egg Toss.
On Saturday afternoon the Bike Rally 
will be started from the Skibo parking lot 
and proceed from there. While plans for
$
The National Endowment for the Hu
manities has begun a program of grants for 
support of humanities projects initiated 
and conducted by young people. NEH 
thereby becomes one of the few Federal 
agencies so involved. Announcement of the 
new program was made by Dr. Ronald S. 
Berman, the Endowments Chairman, who 
said NEH is encouraging proposals for pro
jects effective immediately.
Created in line with a recommendation 
made last year by the National Council on 
the Humanities, the new program  called 
Youthgrants in the Humanities  will 
consider applications from both students 
and young persons out of school. In an
nouncing the program, Dr. Berman descri
bed it as an important new thrust in the 
Endowments continuing efforts to interest 
and involve all sectors of the population in 
the humanities. The program will offer 
young people an opportunity to translate 
their educational and ethical concerns into 
concrete projects and to reflect critically 
on their own beliefs and values as well as 
those held by the larger society.
March 17 has been set as the first dead
line for Youthgrants applications for 
projects scheduled to begin during the sum
mer or fall of 1972. Proposals will be evalu
ated comparitively by a panel of young 
people prior to submission to the National 
Council on the Humanities, which makes 
final recommendations for Endowment 
grants.
Further information about the program, 
including eligibility, application proce
dures, and grant requirements is contained 
in a brochure available without charge 
from: Youthgrants in the Humanities, Na
tional Endowment for the Humanities, 
Washington, D.C., 20506.
FOR FREE
Pregnane*
CounselingInPITTSBURGH
Call
422-7900
Woman's Medico! Atsfitanet
a non-profit organization
the events are still hazy, the event will 
hopefully attract many of the cycling en
thusiasts who currently roam the campus 
looking for places to park their vehicles. 
And, for mud fanatics, it appears the Plank 
Joust will be revived. Rules for the Plank 
Joust are lost somewhere in the Spring 
Carnival archives, but generally the idea is 
to get everyone as muddy as possible in the 
mud-filled ditch prepared specifically for 
the event.
To round out the weekend there is a full 
schedule of evening events. The Sorry 
Muthas, a jug band type group will per
form in the Skibo cafeteria. Scotch and 
Soda will be performed Thursday, Friday, 
and Saturday in the Ballroom, and the 
movies Yellow Submarine, Mash, and 
The Thomas Crown Affair will be shown 
throughout the weekend.
Much ol the work for Spring Carnival 
has yet to be done, and anyone interested 
in helping can contact Ken Sachs at 
687-4959, or by leaving a note at the Intormation Desk at Skibo.
Europe $189.00 Trip
PITTSBURGH - LONDON - PITTSBURGH
PGH.-LON. 5/10/72  LON-PGH. 8/13/72
ALL PITT, CMU, and DUQUESNE STUI>ENTS, FACULTY,
STAFF and THEIR IMMEDIATE FAMILIES ARE ELIGIBLE.UNIVERSITY AIR CHARTER
204 SCHENLEY MANOR DRIVE PITTSBURGH, PA. 15201
CALL: 9 a.m.11 p.m. MondaySunday 412-782-3274
Campus Camera Headquarters
FOR ALL YOUR 
PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS
WE RENT AND 
REPAIR TYPEWRITERS
CAMERA EXCHANGE
3711 FORBES AVENUE
Student Discount or Most Items 
Phon: 683-2181
