Candidates For H&SS Dean Chosen
Poster Plan Defeated
I think the committee agreed the 
present structure and focus of the college 
needs refurbishing, both to get away from 
the old service function of the college and 
to put more social science in what is sup
posed to be a college of humanities and 
social sciences, said Dr. Stearns. He said 
that while no member of the committee 
was satisfied with the current prestige of 
H&SS, not all agreed on how much re
vamping should take place.
A student familiar with the search pro
cess said that some of the candidates might
demand certain changes in the college as a 
precondition for taking the job, and that 
there was a lot of concern about the 
narrow scope of the social sciences taught 
here.
The search committee made an attempt 
to include students in the selection process.
It flopped, admitted Dr. Stearns.
A student representative, Vicky Stein, 
was named to the committee after she, as 
head of the H&SS SAC, asked for student 
participation in the selection process. But 
Ms. Stein left school at the end of the fall
semester, before the committee inter
viewed the second of the three applicants it 
eventually picked. No student was named 
to take her place. The third of the three 
final candidates dropped in on a meeting of 
the H&SS Student Advisory Committee 
that was coincidentally scheduled for the 
same day he visited the campus, and H&SS 
SAC member Pam Neil attended a meeting 
of the search committee dealing with the 
final recommendations.
[Student representation] was sloppily 
handled, said Dr. Steams, more by accontinued on page 9
S tartan
February 11, 1975 Volume 75 Number 17
____ photo by John RoseMusic Department 
To Appoint Head
by Steven Correli
After a one and one-half year search, 
the Music Department is almost ready to 
appoint a permanent head, according to 
Acting Head Roland Leich.
Three candidates have already visited 
the campus for interviews and two more 
will come this week. A search committee 
chaired by Dean of Fine Arts Akram 
Midani is also considering one candidate 
from within the music faculty, Associate 
Professor Donald \V3kins; and if Midani 
agrees, the faculty would like to invite still 
one more outside candidate.
Leich predicted that the committee 
could send its recommendations to the ad
ministration as soon as two weeks after the 
final interview, and certainly before an 
April 1 deadline informally set by Pres
ident Richard Cyert.
Candidates invited for interviews in
clude two orchestral conductors, a choir 
conductor with a strong university back
ground, an administrator of arts program 
and a composer with an academic back
ground.
The search committee spent one year 
narrowing the field of over 40 original can
didates, according to Leich. Meanwhile, he 
said, one candidate from within the depart
ment left CMU.
Oripmally consisting of selected music
faculty plus one student plus one faculty 
member from outside the department, the 
committee was reorganized to comprise the 
enitre music faculty. It received permission 
from President Cyert to interview more 
than the three outside candidates originally 
slated.
Former Department Head Sidney Harth 
resigned unexpectedly in September, 1973, 
while on a years sabbatical.
Tutoring Available
by John Spaulding
Beginning this semester, freshman and 
sophomore CIT, MIS and Architecture stu
dents will have the opportunity to obtain 
free tutoring through the Peer Help Center. 
The proposal accepted by the Carnegie 
Corporation, which funds educationally in
novative programs, was authored by senior 
Psychology major Steve Schillo. A grant of 
$5,500 has been allocated for use in the 
program during the spring semester of 
1975. The aim is to reach the student who 
has difficulty receiving enough remedial
help from his recitation instructor, 
continued on page 9
by Steven Correli
The committee charged with picking a 
successor to resigning H&SS Dean Erwin 
Steinberg has recommended three can? didates out of more than 90 applicants.
The committee finished its work two 
weeks ago without much disagreement, ac
cording to chairman Peter Stearns, but also 
without systematic student representation. 
The final choice among the three can
didates lies with Provost Arnold Weber, 
President Richard Cyert and the CMU 
Trustees.
*9 Citing instructions from Provost Weber, 
Dr. Stearns refused to release the names of 
the three candidates, to describe their 
backgrounds or to say whether any of 
them is black or female. He did say that 
none of them are currently employed at 
CMU.
Both students and faculty familiar with 
the search committees work predicted that 
i the naming of the new dean will change the
college.
Situating of posters in qution Photo bV
When the vote was tied, Bill Capps 
walked out and later commented that the 
arguments against it were ridiculous. There 
werent any questions about whether it 
would workjust whether they [Senate 
members] wanted it to work. Admitting 
frustration, Capps stated that he had en
tered the contest to help the campus and 
was positive his plan would work.
It was a good proposal if you wanted a 
proposal, stated Olsh&nsky, but this is a 
campus and a campus is supposed to be 
informal. Commenting that it ^vould be 
another one of those dead rules that no 
one ever looks at, Olshansky claimed that 
approving the proposal would just be 
wasted legislation since theres no way 
to enforce it or to publicize it so that 
people would know.
The final decision is up to Dean Swank. 
Although not sure now what the next step 
will be, Swank stressed that it is impor
tant that there be agreement about the 
uhimate decision.
by Marianne Vakiener
Bill Capps poster proposal was voted 
down by Student Senate at their January
29 meeting. Chairperson Sue Olshansky 
was called upon to break the tied roll call 
vote. Both Dean Swank, who had selected 
the proposal over four others, and Capps 
were present.
Capps plan involved hiring a student to 
put up posters in twenty to thirty desig
nated areas. After discussing the proposal a 
few weeks earlier, Senate requested that 
Capps be present to answer questions be
fore a recommenation was made. Swank 
expected requests for modification of the 
proposal as there had been talk about a 
need to rewrite parts. However, a letter 
from Ed Levine, a senator, was read which 
was against Capps proposal. Senate then 
voted against the proposal and recommend
ed that someone be employed to remove 
outdated posters but that the present 
method of putting them up be continued.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2THE TARTAN-February 11. 1975
editors note
1
TRASH
Take a walk through Baker Hall, Fine Arts, or the 
Tartan grill. And one conclusion: Carnegie-Mellon is a dirty 
place. Aside from the smoke stacks of Pittsburgh, our campus 
is polluted by stale cigarette butts, Servomation remains, and 
scraps of paper. A tour of campus reveals abandonment of 
any philosophy concerned with conservation.
Its easy to blame the custodians who are paid $3.65 an 
hour to dean up after us. But, by claiming that custodians 
are inefficient were merely passing the buck. Custodians 
should be responsible for cleaning windows and washing 
floors; they should not be held accountable for the filth left 
when students use the floors rather than trash baskets.
Every day, including Sundays, the Mo rewood lobby is 
cleaned, but if you catch a glimpse of the lobby before the 
cleaning, your reaction would probably be disgust. Tables are 
upholstered with cups and butts. Students may be pressed for 
time, but they could stop at a garbage can on their way to 
the elevator. The piano in Morewood is difficult to play 
because students have crushed burning cigarettes into the 
keys. They could at least use an ash tray.
There is nothing more appetizing than sitting down in 
the Kit tie Cafe to find greasy lettuce leaves strewn over the 
table or to stick your hands into remnants of cocoanut 
custard pie. Food service can not afford to hire many 
employees whose specific function is bussing trays and 
wiping tables. Students can afford to take up a tray on their 
way out the door. Our tuition should be spent on more 
valuable things than extra help to dean up after us.
The solution to the dirt problem is almost too simple. 
Students in the university merely have to be responsible for 
their own mess. Perhaps we should adhere to the laws 
concerning litter, where persons caught littering are fined. 
Certainly, students would resent being fined for dropping a 
candy wrapper or leaving a tray on the table. But in the 
meantime, the campus is fined with dirty surroundings.
At the risk of sounding like Woodsy Owl, / will move on 
to another topic concerning the clutter on campus. / recently 
tried putting up posters on campus and found it a trying 
experience. So many posters are left around campus after the 
event they advertised is over; apparently, students like to see 
their posters remain up after the event for the sake of 
nostalgia. Right now, the only people who take down posters
are those seeking room decorations or a form of aggressive 
release. If an individual is releasing tension, the poster ends 
up on the ground and were back to the problem of clutter 
on the campus.
Bill Capps recent proposal suggests that posters should only 
be placed in some thirty to forty specific areas of the /C 
campus. But this proposal doesn t really consider the 
financial state of various groups on campus. If a group cant 
afford to make a big poster, their poster could be lost among 
a flood of other posters on designated bulletin boards; the 
Capps proposal threatens small groups.
Therefore, / propose a modification of Capps proposal 
that would eliminate some of the trash on this campus while 
preserving freedom for students to advertise their events in 
places of their choice. The most valuable part of Capps 
proposal is the provision to get someone to remove posters. 
Capps suggests that old posters be re-cyded. By assuring the 
removal of stale posters, the proposal would focus student 
attention on what events really are on campus.
Concern for the outward appearance of campus may 
seem unprecedented. After all, who are we trying to impress? 
Everyone knows at a university youre supposed to be 
concentrating on the intellect in a campus atmosphere. But, 
visual impressions do matter. Parents dont want to send their 
kids to a dirty place, nor do trustees want to contribute to a 
mess. Nobody wants to live out of a trash can.
Give a hoot! Dont pollute.
Join Woodsy.
Give a hoot. Dont pollute. 
Work out ways to make wastes useful.
letters
Editor:
The last issue of the TARTAN 
ran an interesting editorial on 
campus services; I applaud your 
intentions but I was appalled by* 
the deficiencies and weaknesses 
of the commentary.
An examination and restruc
turing of campus services is man
datory. We realize that CMU re
volves around Warner Hall and 
the convenience of* admin
istrators. This is tolerable until it 
endangers the safety of students. 
There is a dire need for a 24-hour 
health program. The necessity 
for a nurse on duty is evident. 
What about trained psychol
ogists? I see too many people on 
the brink of collapse with no
where to turn. Sure, there are
RAs and Peer Help, but these 
are just other students. When the 
problem is sufficiently severe to 
require help the person wants 
only professional help. We need 
counsellors at all hours. The 
worst problem on campus is the 
lack of trained first-aid person
nel. We can all relax, knowing it 
takes only five minutes for 
Security to get to Morewood. So 
what if it takes an entire three 
minutes to asphyxiate once 
youve stopped breathing. Train 
your RAs! Train floor residents! 
Youve got to get an efficient 
means of saving peoples lives 
should the need arise.
Campus services must be up
graded and it must start with 
health programs. Swimming 
hours and late-night snacks are 
wonderful, but theyre icing on 
the cake. If you must neglect 
urgent problems, at least focus
on good ones. We all know that a 
students day in class begins at 
8:00 in the morning and ends 
around 7:00 in the evening. 
When in gods name is he sup
posed to get around to see our 
administrators if he has a prob
lem? If 4000 students can skip 
lunch or classes to sit in Warner 
Hall I dont think it is too much 
to ask that employees stagger 
their hours to 8:00 pm. Were 
laying out mucho cash to come 
here. If we have suggestions or 
complaints, someone should be 
there to listen.
Once again, let me emphasize 
the urgency of health programs. I 
want to see changes instituted 
before my friends are.
Debbie, get your priorities 
straight. Warner Hall, get your 
thumbs out of your collective 
posterior. Bruce Lindsay
tartan
Editor-in-chief: 
Managing Editor: 
Business Manager: 
News Editor:
Debbie Siegel 
Gary Singer 
Lester Nathan 
Kevin Turcotte
Entertainment Editor: 
Trapeze Editor: 
Photography Editor: 
Sports Editor: 
Features Editor:
Mark Evan Chimsky 
Greg McKenna 
John Shettei 
Dave Kanner '
Kris Mamula
Staff Writers: Diane Bottonari, Steven Correll, Sharon Curcio, James Fletcher, Dolores Foster, Fred 
Freedman, Roger Geddes, Dave Girdany, Lisa Gordon, Arnie Karr, Stacey Robin Kimbell, Susen N. Klein, 
Cheryl Lawson, Claire Lee, Lisa Lieberman, Nancy Lyons, John Mangano, Mike Pochan, Amy Reitmeyer, 
Dave Roussos, Paul Smith, John Spalding, Tom Schwartz, Chip Yeager, Lisa Zeidner Charles Mitch
Photographers: Richard Fisher, Rick Frantz, Courtney Larson, Ed Levine, Dave Meeker, Elliot Popowitz, 
Rodman Reilly, John Rose, Mark Segal, Fred Shamlian, Brian Smith
Business: Tony Fine, Tom Kendig, Arthur Silverberg
Art: Nancy Bink, Nonie Dempsey, Rachel Feinberg, Kitty Fischer, Mindy Maier
Layout and Typesetting: John Mangano, Ronnie Savion, Paula Strasser, Carl Grefenstette, Dave Groupe 
Jim Vlasic, Mary Kay Groupe
The Editorial Board of the TARTAN reserves the right to edit or withhold any copy that it considers unfit 
for publication. Funded by Student Government of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Penn. 15213. 
Editorial offices are located in Skibo 50, Business office in Skibo 52. Telephone (412) 682-4557 or campus 
extension 656.
Debbie Siegel

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-February 11, 1975-Page 3
news comment
Ith in UJiu. To Otuset.
betters
continued from page 2
SWIMMING HOURS 
Editor:
The February 4 issue of the 
TARTAN misrepresented swim#>ng pool hours. In her editorial, 
Debbie Siegel stated, on most 
days, the swimming pool is open 
for the campus communitys use 
only from 12:30 to 1:20 pm. In 
reality, the swimming pool hours 
are as follows:
Monday: 12:30-1:20 pm;
3:30-4:20 pm
k Tuesday: 11:30 am-1:20 pm;
*30-4:20 pm; 9:30-10:20 am 
Wednesday: 12:30-1:20 pm; 
3:30-4:20 pm
Thursday: 9:30-10:20 am;
11:30 am-1:20 pm; 3:30-4:20 
pm
Friday: 12:30-1:20 pm 
Saturday: 2-5 pm 
Currently, the swimming team 
"practices from 4:20-6:00 pm 
Monday through Thursday, and 
J 3:30-5 on Fridays, but when 
swimming season ends in about a 
month, more hours will be added 
to recreational swimming, as in 
previous years.
Setting aside the issue Ms. 
iege! is discussing for a moment, 
I would like to consider the mis
representation itself. It seems to 
me that any good writer, espec
ially an editor writing an article 
that will be read by a large num
ber of people, should check out 
her assumptions before putting 
them into print. It is not difficult 
to find out what the swimming
 pool hours are. They are posted 
in at least three places in the 
gymnasium and can be obtained 
either by calling the Skibo infor
mation desk or the athletic department. Ms. Siegel either did 
not bother to find out the pool 
hours, or she chose to exaggerate 
to emphasize her point.
I have been lifeguard at the 
swimming pool for the past 2Vi 
years, and I know about the sit
uation there. In her editorial, Ms. 
Siegel asks, Would it be so dif
ficult to have a student lifeguard 
at a time which is more con
ducive to students time sched
ules? This semester, the athletic 
department had to hire four stu
dent lifeguards to cover all the 
hours. Furthermore, the supply 
of lifeguards is not infinite. First, 
a lifeguard must be certified by 
the American Red Cross as a Sr. 
Lifesaver. Second, because of 
budget constraints, a lifeguard 
must be a work-study student 
supplied by the Financial Aid of
fice. This cuts down on the sup
ply of lifeguards.
What does more conducive 
to students time schedules 
mean? The pool is already open 
various hours during the day, the 
athletic department offers several 
swimming courses, and there is 
the swimming team for those 
who want to compete. Extending 
the hours by opening the pool at 
night has been discussed. How
ever, besides the budget strain in 
the athletic department, opening 
the pool at night would probably 
attract more outsiders and in
crease the already large amount 
of vandalism and theft in the 
gym. In addition, the pool is the 
most potentially dangerous area 
in the gym, and in an emergency 
if the lifeguard is the only person 
of responsibility in the entire 
gymnasium, the result could be 
disastrous. Also, when the pool is 
open other than during schooltime hours, the number of child
ren using the pool increases sig
nificantly. People trying to swim
A FREE PRESS:
Fact of Fiction
complain that the kids get in 
their way. If the children arent 
permitted the use of the pool 
their parents (who are students, 
faculty and staff) complain.
It is also questionable whether 
or not extended hours would be 
used. From my experience, dur
ing the three hours the pool is 
open on Saturday fewer people 
use the pool than during the 
daily 12:30-1:20 hour during the 
week.
An alternative, for those who 
are truly interested in swimming 
more, might be for those stu
dents to request the athletic de
partment to schedule a course 
that meets their interests and 
time schedule requirements, and 
ask a faculty member to sponsor 
the course.
Of course, everything stated 
in this letter is my own opinion, 
which is independent of the 
Athletic Department.
Laura Power
The free press has always represented a powerful force 
in the history of this country, so much so that it is 
commonly referred to as the fourth estate, the fourth branch 
of government. The press functions along with, and in some 
cases ahead of, the judicial branch of government in 
monitoring public officials and agencies.
Recent events in American politics have demonstrated 
the impetus which the press can exert. Thanks to the efforts 
of the WASHINGTON POST, Watergate evolved from a 
third-rate burglary to a national scandal whose ramifications 
have stretched to remove a president from office and cause a 
widespread housecleaning in government. Other recent 
achievements have included the information uncovered by 
the NEW YORK TIMES implicating the CIA with spying on 
American Citizens, and the FBI with political espionage.
A free and accurate press is important no matter how 
small a community the medium is serving. A campus 
newspaper, for example, should act in the interest of its 
readers by investigating and accurately reporting all relevant 
campus events. Tenure, the sale of university property, 
appointments and dismissals are all the domain of campus 
journalism. If such a press did not continue, the citizenship 
would lose, in effect, its right to know what decisions are 
being made about their well-being. An uninformed public is 
an inactive one.
The TARTANs role on the Carnegie-Mellon campus is 
ambiguous in the minds of some of its readers. Some people 
believe that the TARTAN should act as a publicity sheet, 
covering only those events which make the administration or 
a particular organization appear favorably. Student organ
izations are infamous for expecting this type of coverage. A 
group recently called the TARTAN and requested a special 
issue to cover their programming. Several student senators 
believe that the TARTANs funding should be contingent on 
its covering their weekly meetings. The expectation is, / 
suppose, that one can order newspaper coverage as one orders 
a pizza; small, medium or large.
Another view is that the TARTAN, which publishes 
weekly, offers a unique opportunity for the writers on this 
campus to get their poetry, fiction, and other creative 
writings published. It is obvious that the Oakland Review 
does not offer the frequency or the exposure to satisfy this 
campuss writerss desire for publication, and no one is quite 
sure what function the Carnegie Technical provides.
The TARTAN currently attempts a compromise among 
these various roles. We attempt to give the readers what they 
want while not sacrificing the more demanding function of 
providing the reader with what he needs. The Constitution 
views the freedom of the press as essential. What would CMU 
be like if all the TARTAN published was opinion?
Gary Singer 
Managing Editor
FILM COURSES 
Editor:
Mindy Maiers editorial car
toon in the February 4 TARTAN 
raises a good point. Oh boy, I 
only had to pay ten dollars for 
the teacher to get the films for 
our film course! Wait a minute, 
what did my father pay $3,000 
for? It is a question deserving 
an answer.
Several years ago, I was instru
mental in persuading our English 
Department to offer a series of 
film courses. My colleagues, 
Beekman Cottrell and Concetta 
Greenfield, have taught courses 
in this series, as have I. My 
course, Film Art, has been taught 
twice, in 1972 and in 1974. Both 
times, the course drew over a 
hundred students. The first time 
cpntinued on page 6

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4THE TARTAN-FEbruary 11,1975
announcements
Be in the Wherrett Room tonight, Feb
ruary 11, at' 7:30 pm when Professor 
Harold Corsini will give a lecture entitled, 
"History of Photography a media discus
sion. Make sure you attend this interesting 
lecture and presentation.
Not previously announced on your Campus 
Program Planning Calendar. Reserve your 
time, 6:30 pm, February 12 and be in 
Breed Hall, where Dr. Mark Neely Jr. from 
the Lincoln National Life Foundation and 
Library will speak on Lincoln and Recon
struction: Myths and Realitites.
Need help in planning your education in 
H&SS? Upperclass students are available 
for information and advice. Stop by SAP 
(Student Advisor Program) Porter Hall 
17C, 12:30-4:30 Mon.-Fri. or phone
621-2600 ext. 8710.
VOICE AUDITIONS for potential DJ's will
be held by WRCT in Room 48, Skibo. The 
times are Saturday and Sunday, February 
15 and 16, from 2 to 4 pm and Monday 
the 17th, from 3-5 pm. For more infor
mation, call 621-WRCT.
B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish University Center
will hold a coffeehouse at Duquesne Uni
versity on Saturday, February 15, at 9 pm. 
There will be refreshments and live enter
tainment. The place is the Duquesne Stu
dent Union, Faculty Lounge, 6th floor.
Dr. Sharryn Donn-Campbell and Dr. David
N. Campbell, board members of the greater 
Pittsburgh area chapter of the National 
Organization for Women (NOW), will lead 
an informal discussion on "Breaching Sex 
Roles. The discussion is sponsored by the 
CMU Women's Collective, and will be held 
Wednesday, February 12 at 7 in room 11 
of Skibo. Everyone is welcome; refresh
ments will be served.
BACK DOOR COFFEEHOUSE
5th Ave. and Morewood
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 15
9 P.M. to 1 - FREE 
lIVC ON STAGE
CHRISTOPHER
LAWRENCE
Two scholarships will be awarded, a Flor
ence Dornblaser Memorial Scholarship in 
the amount of $250.00 and an Emma 
Guffy Miller Scholarship in the amount of 
$250.00.
Any deserving woman in the junior class 
of an accredited college or university may 
apply. The awards are for use during her 
senior year. She must be majoring in polit
ical science, government, economics or his
tory or preparing to teach one of these 
subjects. She must have good scholastic 
standing and be reasonably active in stu
dent activities. She must be a resident of 
Pennsylvania and must establish the need 
for financial aid. She must have a Demo
cratic family background or be an active 
participant in, the affairs of the Democratic 
Party.
Applications must be postmarked no 
later than April 28, 1975.
Applications may be obtained by writ
ing to: Memorial Scholarship Fund, Grace 
M. Sloan, Chairman, 129 Finance Building, 
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania 17120.
Herschel Leibowitz, Department of 
Psychology at Penn State, will speak on 
Intermediate Resting Point of Accomoda
tion: A Demonstration of Laser Method
ology. The talk will be on February 20 at 
3:30 Dm in Baker Hall 340A.
Make this change on your Campus Program
Planning Calendar. The film Wilderness, 
originally scheduled for Tuesday, February 
18, will now be offered Tuesday, March 18 
at 11:30 am in the Wherrett Room.
Nominations for 1976 honorary degree
candidates accompanied by a biographical 
sketch must be handed in to B. Robinson, 
Student Government, Skibo 103 by Feb
ruary 21. Students have the opportunity to 
make six nominations.
WQED is sponsoring a pilot film on Music
Appreciation in conjunction with the Carnegie-Mellon chorus and Dr. Carl Haas. The 
film will be presented on Friday, February 
14 at 6 pm at WQED-TV studio, 4802 
Fifth Avenue. This presentation will be 
open to the first 80 people who come. 
S ndwiches and beverages will be served. 
B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish University Center 
will hold its next lunch of the Winter 
Lunch and Lecture Series on February 13 
at 12 noon in the Hillel Library, 3rd floor, 
315 S. Belief eld Ave. Professor Gabriel 
Zifroni will speak on "The Role of Politics 
in the Theatre.
BNAI BRITH HILLEL -JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
Announces 
WINTER LUNCH AND LECTURE SERIES 
at the UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH
February 13 PROFESSOR GABRIEL ZIFRONI
THE ROLE OF POLITICS IN THE THEATER1' 
February 20 PROFESSOR RICHARD GALE 
"Might There Be Nothing Rather Than Something1'
THURSDAYS AT NOON 
HILLEL LIBRARY, 3rd Floor, 315 S. Beflefield Avenue 
(Lunch, $1.15, optional. Speaker begins at 12:20 p.m.)
All Graduate and Undergraduate Students 
and Faculty Welcome
Representatives of VISTA and the Peace
Corps will visit Carnegie-Mellon University 
February 18 and 19 to speak to people 
interested in serving in these volunteer pro
grams.
Barry Crowell and Cynthia Ranii, ex
volunteers, will be in the lobby of Baker 
Hall Tuesday and Wednesday, February 18 
and 19 from 9 am to 4:30 pm.
Majors being sought are those in the 
fields of architecture, engineering, plan
ning, business, law, nursing, home econ
omics, social work, education, guidance, 
math, science, French, Spanish and all the 
liberal arts. Volunteering is not, however, 
limited to those with a college degree. Prac
tical experience in agriculture or a skilled 
trade may qualify the applicant for volun
teer service.
Four months are needed to process an 
application, so those interested are en
couraged to apply as soon as possible.
La Table Franaise will meet Wednesdays 
instead of Fridays. Still 11 am, Skibo cafe
teria downstairs, Staff cafeteria side.
Bring your lunch to the Wherrett Room, 
Thursday, February 20 at 12:30 pm, when 
Campus Program Planning is sponsoring 
another in a series of Luncheon Lecture 
Forums. Professor T. Kerr will present a 
short film and discussion entitled An Inter
view with Hugo Black.
SPECIAL COFFEEHOUSE: A magician
and a pantomime artist will be performing 
in the Wherrett Room on Friday the 14th 
at 9:30 pm. There is no admission charge. 
Peter Lowenberg, a leading psycho
historian, Professor of History at UCLA 
and a member of the faculty of the South
ern California Psychoanalytic Institute, will 
discuss "The New Hitler Historiography: 
Traumas, Perversion, and Fantasy," on 
Thursday, February 27, at 8 pm in Science 
Hall 7500. The lecture is open to the 
public. It*is sponsored by the Pittsburgh 
Psychoanalytic Center and the Department 
of History, CMU.
President Cyert has been re-scheduled! Due
to popular demand, he will be interviewed 
on WRCT-FM from 7 to 8 on Tuesday 
night, February 18. Join host Arnie Karr, 
and panelists Bev Robinson, Debbie Siegel 
and Skip Edwards for the discussion, or 
give President Cyert a call at 621-9728 
(021-WRCT) or 101 and 102 on the Morewood house phones.
Time Out. Enjoy a change of pace: an
evening of volleyball, a speaker and food at 
Shadyside Presbyterian Church, on 
Amberson near Fifth Ave. It all starts at 
7:30 pm on Tuesday. Februarv 11.
Did Copernicus really prove that God and
Science don't mix? Come and find out 
Wednesday night February 12 at 7:30 in 
the Wherrett Room. Dr. R.B. Griffiths will 
be speaking on "Science: The Limits of 
Knowledge," the last of the three-part 
series, "Christianity and the University," 
sponsored by Inter-Varsity Christian 
Fellowship.
Classified
The Pittsburgh 99 Cent Floating Festival
Theatre presents the Multigravitational 
Aerodance Group from New York at the 
Chatham College Theatre, February 13-16 
at 8 pm. Additional performance February 
35, 10 pm.
WANTED: Arts and crafts of all kinds for
selling on consignment. Call 362-6562 
evenings.
TF's, GRADS PROF's EARN $2000 or
more & FREE 5-8 WEEKS IN EUROPE, 
AFRICA, ASIA. Nationwide educational 
organization needs qualified leaders for 
H.S. and College groups. Send name, ad
dress, phone, school, resume, leadership ex
perience to: Center for Foreign Study, P.O. 
Box 606, Ann Arbor, Ml 48107.
Female models needed for promotional 
campaign. Earn excellent salary in spare 
time. Send photo and resume to A&R 
Associates, P.O. Box 7220, Oakland Sta
tion, Pgh. Pa. 15213.
Irish setter pups, AKC, shots to date. Call
521-0428.
French Film SeriesSunday, February 16:
Agnes Varda's sensual Le Bonheur. Porter 
Hall 100, 8 pm, 90 cents admission.
Free pregnancy testing Monday through
Friday. Results confidential and available 
the same day. For information contact 
Women's Health Services. Inc.562-1900. 
Wanted: student with experience in res
idential electrical work for small reno
vation project. Call CMU extension 294 or 
441-2684
summerineurope
65 DAY ADVANCE 
PAYMENT REQUIRED 
US GOVT APPROVED 
TWA PAN AM TRANSAVIA
707 707 707
 CALL TOLL FREE 1
CHARTERS 
LESS THAN
,1/2 
ECONOMY FARE
uni-travel charters 
800-325-4867
Personals
Dear Greg:
Your story was not fiction-Terry calls 
us once a month too!
^prnnrl Flrnr Port
WRCT is holding
VOICE AUDITIONS
if you're interested in becoming a radio 
announcer, Stop by Room 48, Skibo, any 
of these times:
feb. 1 5 
feb. 1 6 
feb. 17
2-4 p.m.
2-4 p.m.
3-5 p.m.
wrct - first on your fm dial

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-February 11, 1975-Page 5
Music Majors Discontent with Department
by Steven Correll
Some two dozen music majors met 
voluntarily and unofficially last week to 
discuss the future of their department, and 
came out with a long list of what they feel 
is wrong right now.
Paradoxically, many students felt that 
the department, which is expected to fill 
several important faculty jobs (including 
department head, Kiltie Band director and 
Orchestra director) within the next few 
years, will probably improve soon.
And several stressed that they do not 
want to blame acting Department Head 
Roland Leich for delaying any major de
cisions until a permanent head takes over.
I certainly try to maintain cordial re
lationships with the students, said Leich. 
If any of them have points they want to 
complain about, we will give them consid
eration.
At the meeting and in conversation with 
a reporter, students voiced the following 
concerns:
That, despite the recent hiring of a 
few big names, the departments rep
utation and quality have declined, and it 
might lose accreditation. .
That the department has ignored stu
dent requests for more training in jazz and 
theatre music, even though more jobs are 
open in those fields than in mainstream 
classical music.
That space and instructors are so 
scarce that enrollemnt in some options 
within the curriculum is restricted, and 
some students actually have trouble finding 
courses they can take.
That the department enrolls students 
majoring in certain instruments, like sax
ophone, even though it doesnt have in
structors specializing in those instruments 
and doesnt support small ensembles for 
those students to perform in.
That Opera Workshop Director Rudolf 
Fellner hires professional musicians to sing 
most major roles while students who take 
the workshop for credit spend their time 
building sets, singing only in the chorus.
That students in general havent been 
informed about the method of selecting a 
new department head or told of the pro
gress so far in finding a successor (see re
lated story).
That many students are apathetic, and 
that teachers make it too easy to coast 
along in classes.
Students seemed generally pleased with 
the hiring of well-known musicians (Leon
ardo Balada, Thomas Michaelek, Carlos 
Barbosa-Lima) who might improve the de
partments reputation. But few felt the de
partments teaching satisfactory overall; 
several complained the department lacks 
competent but lesser-known instructors to 
back up the famous ones.
I dont think [he] really likes to 
teach, said one student, referring to one 
of the departments superstars.
How can you tell? replied another. 
Hes always out of the country.
Complaints included a lack of co
ordination between individual courses 
teaching similar subjects, the stretching of 
some subjects over serveral years when 
they could be taught in two semesters of 
hard work, and having only two faculty 
members to teach all string players.
Leich acknowledged that physical space 
and money are problems for the depart
ment, but said that The calibre of our 
teachers is above reproach .. . that has not 
changed. He said he could not envision 
any problems that could cause the depart
ment to lose its accreditation from the 
National Association of Schools of Music 
(NASM).
Personally, I think we still meet all 
their requirements, unless theyve drastic
ally upped the ante on some specific fac
tors like square feet of practice rooms, he 
said. Leich said he did not know when the 
department was scheduled for reaccredit
ation, but expected it would be soon.
Leich said the departments refusal to 
emphasize jazz or theatre music is also a 
matter of resources:  . . . not enough 
space, rehearsal rooms or faculty mem
bers.
Our answer to requests for a curricular 
program in jazz is that its already being 
done at Pitt, and that we would be dup
licating a very strong effort when we are 
already overcrowded, said Leich. We al
ready have a problem with whos teaching 
in which room at which hourpeople get 
in each others hair . . . Its pretty much 
accepted nowadays in the academic world 
that you have to cooperate with nearby 
schools on programs you dont have.
Reminded that the jazz ensemble al
ready exists under student supervision and 
student financing, and already uses the 
space and facilities it needs, Leich said that 
as a matter of tradition, organizations like 
the Jazzband, the Kiltie Band and the choir 
are extracurricular. Leich was not aware 
that music majors and non-majors alike re
ceive academic credit for the Kiltie Band, 
and that music majors receive credit for 
Cameron choir.
Jazzband Director Keith Bishop, a stu
dent, agreed that the money required to 
hire an instructor is the main reason for the 
departments refusal to grant the band aca
demic status.
Right now its just easier to get money 
from Student Senate than from the depart
ment, so thats what we do, he said. 
They [the music department] like to 
know when were playing so they can 
accept compliments graciously, but thats 
about all.
Many students interested in jazz  or 
theatre training feel that a general bias 
against non-classical music also directs the 
departments thinking. And at the meeting, 
a student complained that the Drama De
partment sees no real need for a theatre
music program, since it can fill its needs by 
occasionally borrowing music majors.
And you know how they treated you 
in Threepenny Opera [one of last years 
productions], she said. Unless we have 
cooperation with Drama, theres no hope. 
The most vehement complaints of all 
centered on Opera Workshop Director 
Fellner.
Why require voice majors to take opera 
workshop when most of them are only 
going to spend their evenings building 
sets? a student asked. He [Fellner] is 
having two shows this year, One-Man 
Show and The Bald Prima Donna; neither 
is standard repertoire, neither is going to 
help us when we get out of here and we 
need an aria for an audition.
Students complained that Fellner pays 
outsiders to sing major roles, in contrast to 
the CMU Drama Departments policy of 
using only student actors in its produc
tions.
Its all graduates and people from out
side, one said, even when theres a stu
dent who could sing the part wellmaybe 
not as well as a professional, because shes 
not 30 and shes not on her way to Ger
manybut well enough. And learn some
thing too.
Students recalled petitioning Leich and 
Dean of Fine Arts Akram Midani last year 
to make Fellner use more undergraduate 
singers.
They couldnt do anything to change 
his ways, and this year hes doing it again. 
It proves it just doesnt matter what you 
try to get done, said a student.
I have to reserve judgement on who is 
capable of singing in a public performance 
and who should not, since after all we are 
supposed to be a professional school, re
plied Fellner. Its only fair.
He admitted that relatively few under
graduates sing lead roles in the workshop 
performances, but said that most of the 
roles do go to graduates and alumni rather 
than to outside professionals.
I think theyre mistaken, he said of 
the student complaints about unusual 
repertoire. Last year we did Marriage of 
Figaro, and two years ago we did Falstaff, which is quite a standard. This year, 
the productions just happen to be far out.
Young singers who go out into pro
fessional life, he added, are going to have 
to do a great deal of far-out stuff.
Leich recalled last years protests over 
the workshop and said that Fellners an
swer to him was that the students in the 
workshop program are not qualified to sing 
the parts he needs voices for.
Pm very distressed and concerned, 
said Leich.  ... Maybe the answer is we 
shouldnt be accepting students into the 
program if they cant handle the parts.
Students at the meeting repeatedly 
said they hoped one problem or another 
would finally get solved when a new de
partment head takes over.
Several were unhappy with their role as 
students in selecting a new head.
None of the information about what 
theyre doing, who theyre interviewing, 
what theyre looking for ever gets out to 
us. Its sort of a hush-hush atmosphere, 
said one.
Theres a We know whats best for 
you attitude among the faculty, like 
Were the faculty up on cloud nine, and 
youre just students, climbing out of a 
manhole. 
Questioned beforehand about the pur
pose of the Thursday afternoon meeting, 
Gary Chang, a composition major and one 
of the sponsors, said, Theres no time we 
ever get together to talk with each otherthats what were going to do. He ex
plained his major concern was the gearing 
of most courses in content and difficulty 
toward the education majors, to the det
riment of composers and performers.
One reason its taken so long to find a 
department head, he said, is nobody can 
decide on what kind of department to 
have.
Steve Price, the other sponsor, though 
the meeting reasonably successful: The 
student who were there got to see a better 
picture of whats happening overall in the 
department. The sponsors said the list of 
specific problems would probably be given 
to Leich through the departmental SAC.
B'NAI BRITH HILLEL-JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
COFFEEHOUSE 
AT DUQUESNE UNIVERSITY
Saturday February 15 9 P.M.
REFRESHMENTS AND LIVE ENTERTAINMENT
DUQUESNE STUDENT UNION - Faculty Lounge 6th Floor
/SoC .S ,Oa 
klndSReoCvS inw 
krgvSoToSc khSSB,AA
because
in a class bvherself.
Call YourFTD Extra Touch Florist'
_ .L s* a red satinBeauWoU^epot^0.saxc,s.vu(d
heart an ^ Per*u trvn Florist
issiffis^Bouquet
sgste- $1500'
each F'u own pnces1975 Florists Transwcrld Delivery,

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6THE TARTAN-February 11, 1975
letters
continued from page 3
I offered the course, I useH monies I had 
raised myself from my S.T.A.G. film series, 
plus some funds from Acting Dean of 
H&SS, John Hayes. I still needed more 
funds, so I assessed the students in the 
course a small amount.
Last year when I taught the course, I 
developed a film series with Robert Mc
Curdy of Skibo and we were able to make 
enough of a profit so that there was no 
need to assess the students directly. How
ever, since they were required to attend the 
movies, they were being assessed indirectly.
During last years course, I decided I 
could benefit my students by bringing in 
two short films with a total rental of thirty 
dollars. I tried to get the thirty dollars, but 
was turned down. Even though the class 
was bringing in thousands of dollars in tui
tion, I couldnt squeeze thirty dollars out 
of the university.
The problems in teaching a film course 
are so vast that many of us have just about 
given up on the idea. Not only do we need 
money to rent the films we need, we also 
need money for projecting them. But the 
university wont budge.
It is a strange situation. The students 
here have expressed a great desire in having 
film courses offered, we have faculty mem
bers who are more than competent in 
teaching the courses, but the university 
refuses to support the courses with even a 
penny.
The solution is simple-dont offer film 
courses.
I do not have space or time to defend 
the teaching of such courses. To my think
ing what is learned in these courses about
the nature of art is every bit as valuable as 
what is learned in less expensive, more 
traditional English courses. The growth of 
film courses on a nationwide basis at both 
th college and high school level is phen
omenal. It is unfortunate that at Carnegie-Mellon University, courses in film are 
dwindling. Maybe Mindy Maiers editorial 
cartoon deserves an editorial. And some 
response from the student body.
William J. McTaggart 
Asst. Prof. of English
Editor:
The Chemistry Department at CMU 
seems headed for self-destruction. They 
have just refused tenure to one of our 
finest professors. I do not use finest 
in any loose sense here. He is a well-published researcher-which seems to 
mean a lot here. Furthermore, however, 
his is conspicuously interested in how 
we teach students in this university. He 
reflects this interest in teaching his own 
courses, as well as in his poineering 
work in self-paced instruction (now 
catching fire in many departments). If 
this university has no place for such a 
man-yet adds lower grade, inexper
ienced PhDs to its staff, then I am 
sincerely glad to graduate from here and 
escape the degradation which is sure to 
become attached to the reputation of 
Carnegie-Mellons Chemistry department! Keith Spitler
photo by Eliot Popowitz
200 Books Presented to CMU
summer neurope
65 DAY ADVANCE 
PAYMENT REQUIRED 
U S GOVT. APPROVED 
TWA PAN AM TRANSAVIA
707 707 707
 CALL TOLL FREE
CHARTERS 
LESS THAN
,1/2
ECONOMY FARE
uni-travei charters 
1-800-325-4867 
by Lisa Gordon
Mr. Robert Woolham, the Canadian 
Consul in Cleveland, presented 200 books 
by and about Canadians to Carnegie-Mellon 
University. The books, donated February 
3, were presented in President Richard 
Cyerts office in behalf of the Canadian 
Government in the hope that Americans 
will become aware of Canadian life, and to 
encourage Canadian studies in American 
universities.
The books cover a broad range of topics 
from the Canadian Consumer Handbook to
Visions 20-20, a book in which 50 Can
adians look at the future of Canada and the 
future relations of Canada with the rest of 
the world. Others in the sampling include 
The Circle Game, poems by a Canadian 
author, Lenin and Canada, a volume about 
the effects of Lenins writings on Canadas 
political philosophy and Mother Was Not a 
Person, a book on the Womens Liberation 
Movement.
The books have all been catalogued and 
some are on display in the Library show
case on the first floor.
rLOOKING FOR A WORTHWHILE EMPLOYMENT 
POSITION FOR THE SUMMER MONTHS.
SOPHOMORES WE CAN HELP YOU!!
You will receive approximately $500.00 for six-weeks of
challenging and rewarding work.
It's yours when you enroll in the ROTC Two-Year Program 
A program designed for students who did not enroll during 
their first two years at C-MU.
And when you return to campus in the Fall you'll start to receive 
a $100.00 per month allowance.
Here's an excellent opportunity to receive immediate financial 
benefitsPLUS
Experience that will enhance your employment potential when 
you graduate from CMU
FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT:CAPTAIN GREGORY NOSAL 
ROTC DEPARTMENT, CMU 
ROOM 203, GYMNASIUM 
621-2600 Ext. 281/282

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-February 11. 1975-Page 7
Williams Makes Plans to Improve Dorm Life
by Debbie Siegel
I want to improve the intellectual and 
social life in the dormitory by taking a 
creative approach, said newly appointed 
Dean of Resident Life, Charles Williams. 
Williams will be responsible for running the 
Residence Halls as well as continuing with 
the responsibilities of the Dean of Men. 
The Division of Student Affairs will not 
seek a new Dean of Men to fill Williams 
previous position.
I lived in the dorms. My first home was 
Morewood 102. My new position was a 
natural transition from Dean of Men, said 
Williams. Williams views a combination of 
two appraches as being important in run
ning the Residence Halls: (1) a sound bus
iness approach to residence halls and oper
ations (2) a student affairs philosophy. 
Williams feels that these approaches have 
never been used together. Williams sees his 
new role as a reflection of President Cyerts 
desire to improve intellectual-social life in 
the dormitory.
Since Williams became Dean of Res
ident Life a week ago, some of his accom
plishments include having the SDC kitchen 
cleaned every day, sending refunds to all 
those who were tripled up in double rooms 
in September (roughly $1,067 was sent to 
all), and replacing the furniture in the Hill 
lounges. Williams plans to keep the 
Housing office open on a few days from 
6:00 to 8:00 to straighten out the issue of 
single students living in double rooms.
Williams will also be responsible for
Dean ot Kesiaent Liie, unucn vvmianu.
room assignments and keys. He is pleased 
with his staff and said, I plan to develop 
systems without always having to stand 
over people. I dont plan to run everything 
myself. Im going to make everyone who 
is working for me accountable/ He plans
Lincoln & Reconstruction:
Myths and Realities
MARK E. NEELY, JR.
Director, Lincoln National Life Foundation
photo bv John Shettel
to give Morewood desk workers specific 
tasks to perform, e.g. making key lists 
while theyre at the desk. Williams will be 
accountable to Richard Van Horn, Vice 
President of Business Affairs.
Responding to the question of discipline 
in the dorms, Williams said, I do plan to 
enforce all regulations. I plan to act on 
every complaint. Students in the dorm
should be responsible citizens. There 
should be a sense of community. Damages 
affect everybody.
Commenting on negative feedback from 
Resident Assistants, Williams said, When 
youre working for someone (Peg Hair, 
head of RAs) and you knock it, youre 
knocking yourself. Williams has asked for 
Peg Hair to evaluate the RA program. 
Williams plans to find an alternative to the 
program if it i* not succeeding.
I like to see things done, said 
Williams. He wants to work with all sectors 
of the University. For example, he will 
confer with Herb Toor, dean of CIT to see 
if terminals might be installed in the 
dorms. He would also like to see if parents 
can be housed in the dorms when they 
come for commencement. And Williams 
wants to work with Bill Elliot, head of 
Admissions to find out how many fresh
man men and women will be coming in 
order to insure proper space in the dorms 
next year.
Williams will continue as advisor to 
SPIRIT, SDC and UFOcampus housed or
ganizations. This is where I get my feed
back, he explained. He will also refer dis
cipline problems to Earle Swank, Dean of 
the Division of Student Affairs and advise 
on emergency loans.
Virginia Milligan, Dean of Women and 
foreign studies advisor said, Were very 
pleased with Dean Williams new role. He 
now has the power to do, rather than 
recommend. Were doing our bit to pull in 
the reins on power within the university. 
Commenting on his first week as Dean 
of Resident Life, Williams commented, So 
far its all working. Im very pleased with 
the week.
WIENER WILL NOT BE UNDERSOLD!!!
Check our competitive prices on oil
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS MODELS
February 12 
Breed Hall 
6:30 p.m.
Sponsored b\ Campus Program Planning
NEW LOW PRICES
FOR STUDENTS & FACULTY
XEROX COPY PRICES;
I - 5 - 6</copy
6 -10 - 3C/copy
II - 15-2C/copy 
16 - Up - 1 /(/copy
100 copies cost $ 1.83 
(OF SAME ORIGINAL)
Ask for a quote on 
large volume jobs.
Expert Typing Available on IBM 
Selectric Typewriters
OFFSET PRINTING PRICES: 
100 Copies $3.50 
Each additional 100 - 90C
1000 Copies -$11.60 
Each additional 100- 80C 
2000 Copies-$19.60 
Above 5000 each additional 
100 Copies - 70 C
COPY CATQUICK COPY CENTER 
HOTEL WEBSTER HALL 
683-8040
* MUST PRESENT OFFICIAL 
I.D. CARDS
BOOK BINDING PRICES: 
Composition Cover - $ 1.50 
Paper Cover - $ .85C 
Hard Cover - $4.00
Texas Instrument 
*1495 SR5REG.
Tel. (412)683-0313PHILIP S. WIENER
229 Atwood Street Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8THE TARTAN-February 11, 1975
FLY
by Cheryl Lawson
The Carnegie-Tech Flying Club, while 
not as well-known on our campus, is just as 
active as our Varsity teams. Of the 13 
members that they readily claim, 11 are 
already to the flying stage, and 5 of those
11 are licensed by the state; pretty good 
for a bunch of unknowns. But,. theyre 
trying to pull themselves out of the ob
scure rut that they and time have dug. 
Hence, this article: an advertisement to stir 
up interest on the parts of students, faculty 
and staff.
The club is not only open to presently 
enrolled students, but is also open to 
alumni, faculty and staff. And you neednt 
have ever been a flyer before, either. 
Theyre equipped to teach from the lowest 
to the highest level in aeronautics. Though 
there is a fee (per month and per flight), it 
is significantly lower than the costs of 
almost any other aeroclub in the city. 
There is also a minimum requirement of 
tach hours per month (one), but they 
gauge over a 4-month period to allow for 
flight inability. They just began a new per
iod on January 1, but they are very willing 
to accept new members at any time, and 
the members will pay only for the time 
they are actually spending as members of 
the club.
Does it sound good? Well, not only do 
they teach you how to fly, they give you 
something to practice in. They have a 1968 
Aero Commander 100 that is kept hangared at the Allegheny County Airport. This 
plane is a three-seater with a wing span of
683-7759. If you cant get in touch with 
Bob, try Dan Rosen at 361-5103. Set up a 
time to see them, and try something new 
this semester; or go by room 45 in Skibo 
on Thursday, February 13 at 7:30 and 
peek in at their meeting. Their meetings are 
once a month, so if you dont get by, give 
them a call... and pass the word.
Pitt Programming Presents
RICHIE HAVENS and BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN 
& THE EAST STREET BAND
February 20, 8 p.m. at the Syria Mosque 
$3.00 with Student ID
Join the Flying Club and get a new perspective on CMU.Photo by Paul Rubinfeld
35 feet, a length of 22VS feet and a weight 
of 1740 pounds less people. All members 
have equal access to the plane, whether or 
not they are licensed, and some of the 
members would be happy to show the 
plane to any interested persons.
Not only will they show you the plane, 
they just might take you up as they did
me. And to soar miles over this scenic city 
in an airplane is definitely worth the time 
it takes.
Robert Bowman, chief pilot, would love to hear 
from any and all interested people. His 
business phone at Mellon Institute is 
621-1100, ext. 395, and his home phone is
Tickets on sale at Skibo Information Desk
Tuesday, February 11 
7:30 pm Wherrett Room
Sponsofed by Campus Program Planning
HAROLD CORSINI 
Slide Presentation

---------------------------------------------------

/
THE TARTAN-February 11, 1975-Page 9
part of the problem. Each individual must 
answer honestly, and do something positive 
about it.
Racism and 
Prejudice
i
by Dolores M. Foster
Thursday, I attended the program fea
turing the Panel of American Women and 
was greatly disappointed. Though many 
people did not show up, including the 
Panel, because of the weather, it was the 
people that did show that upset me. We 
were supposed to be discussing racism and 
prejudice, but defended our personal pre
judices and racist views instead. Very few 
people, if any, really did get anything out 
of the discussion, since the issues were only 
either hinted at, or completely ignored. 
The discussion should have started out de
fining racism and prejudice, reasons why it 
exists, and viable ways of stopping it at the 
source. The evening ended with everyone 
acknowledging that the people who need 
this type of program rarely come while 
those that need it the least usually attend.
There is a heed for this type of discus
sion, but if people fail to attend or fail to 
benefit from them, these programs are in 
vain and a waste of energy for those who 
coordinate them. The purpose of this par
ticular program was to state that there is 
racism and prejudice on this campus. 
Whether it is blatant or subtle, it is here. 
This problem can only be ended from the 
source: people. Each individual must 
answer for him or herself whether they are
INTELLIGENCE
Peer Help 
Tutoring
continued from page 1
The tutors will be juniors and seniors in 
the respective departments who have ob
tained a cumulative average of at least 
2.75. They will be paid a wage of $2.50 per 
hour. According to Schillo, who will ad
minister the program, the expected de
mand will be highest in Electrical Engineer
ing, Physics and Mathematics. The major 
problem that he anticipates is students 
avoiding recitation sessions and using the 
tutoring program as a crutch to keep up 
with their studies.
For interested students, tutoring 
appointments are arranged through the 
Peer Help Center by calling 621-9900, ex
tension 8884, or by going directly to Baker 
Hall 150A. One of the Peer Help counsel
ors will give out the phone numbers of one 
or two available tutors; one then calls the 
tutor and makes individual arrangements. 
The average appointment will be for about 
an hour and students with similar problems 
are encouraged to go double and triple to 
the sessions.
FREE JAZZ CONCERT
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 17 
SKIBO BALLROOM 
8:00 P.M.
Featuring "The Critic's Choice 
starting February 18 
at the Encore in 
Shadyside
/1
by Claire Lee
On Monday, February 3, 150 people 
packed the Wherrett Room for Professor 
Herbert Simons lecture on human and 
artificial intelligence.
In defining his subject he used the 
description of intelligence as what intel
ligence tests measure. He seems to suggest 
some hope for dull people, since he be
lieves that very smart people are only twice 
as smart as stupid people. As an example 
he stated that a person with an IQ of 140 
can get through CIT with no extreme dif
ficulty while a person with an IQ of 70 can 
hardly get through grammar school. The 
only difference is that the smarter per
son learns things twice as fast as the latter.
What has all this intelligence led to? In 
the course of 10,000 years, it has convert
ed a total world population of 3 million 
brutish savages into one of almost 4 
billion hungry moderns. It has made us 
much more aware of ourselves and has ele
vated our activities, even sex, to an intel
lectual level.
Simon then went on to discuss the two 
main trends of development in the field of 
artificial intelligence. One group is 
hoping to develop computers that mimic 
human thought and actions while the other 
is striving to make machines as smart and 
as inhuman as they can be.
Despite the many advances made in the 
study of human and artificial intelligence, 
he concluded that much work still needs to 
be done in both areas.
DEAN SEARCH
continued from page 1
cident than by design. He said that Ms. 
Stein failed to designate a successor and 
that he forgot to provide for one, partly 
because the second candidate visited the 
campus during Christmas vacation when 
few students were around.
Ms. Stein did participate in reviewing 
most of the rejected candidates, he said. 
The original instructions from Provost 
Weber specified that Ms. Stein would be a 
non-voting member, but Dr. Stearns said, 
We disregarded thatwe didnt give a 
damn. Until the final report, we operated 
by consensus. If somebody howled, we lis
tened. If nobody then joined the howl, we 
decided it probably wasnt important. We 
took very few formal votes.
Advertisements, referrals and word of 
mouth attracted over 90 applicants, 
according to Dr. Stearns, most of which 
were rejected on first reading because they 
lacked either administrative experience or 
the degree of scholarly excellence that 
could have won them tenure in any of the 
H&SS departments.
The committee actually interviewed 
only the three applicants it finally picked, 
plus three more from within CMU.
The search committee was formed fol
lowing Dean Steinbergs announcement last 
September that he plans to step down at 
the end of this academic year.
The committee consisted of Peter 
Ordeshook, Social Relations; Lester Lave, 
Economics; Juris Silenieks, Modern 
Language; David Fowler, History; Ann 
Hayes, English; Angel Jordan, EE; and 
Peter Steams, History.
GIRLS-----ARE YOU LOOKING FOR A SUMMER COUNSELOR POSITION?
Applicants are now being considered for the 1975 camp season. Most be able 
to teach one of the following: Dancing, Theater Director, Piano Accompanist 
and singing, Archery, Tennis, Tennis Director, Golf Photography, Cheerleading, 
Scouting and Nature Study, A.R.C. Swimming Instructor, Boating, Canoeing and 
Water Skiing Instructor or General Athletics. Secretary also needed.
COUNSELOR UNIT LEADERS, must be college graduate experienced in camping. 
Able to plan schedule for activities, evening programs etc. Supervise large 
staff. Write Camp Director, 2409 Shelleydale Drive, Baltimore, Md. 21209.
UNIVERSITY ORATORY OF 
THE HOLY SPIRIT PARISH
CMU CAMPUS
SATURDAY MASS..................................................7:00 P.M.  Tech House
SUNDAY MASS..........................10:30 A.M.  Science Hall (Rm. 7500)
WEEKDAY MASSES .......................................................................Tech House
(M, T, W  10:00 P.M.) (Th, F  5:00 P.M.) (T. Th.  8:00 A.M.)
Fr. Philip Walsh (621-2911). Fr. Bob English (681-3181)
The Community House is the Tech House  5125 Margaret Morrison
Give us a ph of yourxemind
Digital Equipment Corporation 
will be recruiting on campus 
February 17th.
Degreed individuals sought: 
BS/MS-Electrical Engineering 
MS -Computer Science
Contact the placement office for an appointment.mmm

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-THE TARTAN-February 11, 1975
Photographs by 
Courtney Larson &
Kevin Turcotte
by Kevin Turcotte
A Glass Symposium, held on February 6 
and 7, featured lectures and demon
strations of glassblowing by four glassblowing teachers. Thursdays lecture was 
devoted to glass as an artistic medium and 
on Friday, Robert Lang of Pittsburgh Plate 
Glass spoke about the technical aspects of 
glass.
The purpose of the symposium was to 
enlarge the awareness of people, towards 
glass, commented Jan Zandhuis, professor 
of glassblowing at CMU.
The visiting professors were; Fritz Dreisbach from the University of Ohio,
Kekic from Rochester Institute of Tech
nology, Jack Schmidt from the University 
of Wisconsin at Madison and Henry Halem 
from Kent State University.
Weve got the best facilities in the 
ted States, said Zandhuis, all the 
ers who were here were saying it too.
The demonstrations were quite popular 
and drew crowds of 70-80 interested per
sons.
Zandhuis felt the symposium was succe
ssful and commented, Id like to do it 
again.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-February 11, 1975-Page 11
rentertainment
????????????????????????
TV's SHINING HOUR
by Arnie Karr
Sixty Minutes can be seen at 11:30 on 
Sunday nights, but only by the few who 
are awake, aware and in the mood for news 
reporting at that time. While the program 
reaches out, thoroughly exploring interest
ing aspects of the cultures of the world, it 
actually reaches very few television sets in 
the Pittsburgh area. Thats a shame, too, 
because the TV newsmagazine is unique, 
not just in its concept, but in its excellence 
as well.
The show originated in the late sixties 
along with NBCs First Tuesday, based on a 
similar idea but since cancelled. Week after 
week it has taken the viewer around the 
nationand the worldgathering news, 
views, words and pictures. Unlike conven
tional TV news programs, Sixty Minutes 
has not relegated itself to just big1 stories. 
It looks for items of interest to the con
sumer, the humanist, the artist, the 
scientistanything that is affecting or may 
affect the lives of any of us. It offers us 
footnotes to our life styles.
The shows hosts, Mike Wallace and 
Morley Safer, also act as its sole reporters. 
Both are warm personalities, good inter
viewers and directly involved in main
taining the programs reputation for in
tensive reporting and open-mindedness in 
selection of subject matter. Taking topics 
that would hardly seem noteworthy (land 
fraud in Arizona and the quality of life in 
Norway among them), they dive into po
tential material and dont come up for air 
until theyve found something which is 
capable of both entertaining and informing
the audience.
Because of this. SM provides something 
lacking in most newscastsa knowledge of 
events and people that, though not in the 
headlines, have significant, long range im
plications about the quality of life in our 
society. For instance, the success of 
Chinese-Americans in Hawaii will never 
break as a news story and, because of
meet certain requirements, thoughit has 
to be reported well and, ultimately, prove 
that it was worth the air time spent on it. 
Each of the shows sixty minutes is treated 
like a precious jewel that must be handled 
not only with care, but respect.
SM destroys the myth that television 
news is best when delivered quickly and 
superficially; still it capitalizes on the techthis, most news departments at television 
stations will never look into it. SM did 
though, and they produced a masterful 
view of the American Dream and how it 
has motivated or excluded different seg
ments of the population. On Sixty Min
utes, news doesnt have to be new or big or 
fantastic. It has to, and it always does,
THE
NEW ORLEANS KID
nical innovations that can make television 
reporting exciting. A remote film and 
sound crew follows Wallace and Safer 
wherever they go, recording not only inter
views, but footage of the areas visited also. 
Never is even an inch of videotape wasted. 
Everything we see and hear serves to back 
up the story being told. Unlike most news
^There IS a
 difference!!! v
J PREPARE FOP
by Paula Strasser
About the same time that Bob Dylan 
was coming up through the ranks, a num
ber of other musicians were mostly passed 
up. Among them were people like John 
Prine, John Fahey, Leo Kottke and Steve 
Goodman. What these artists have in 
common is a love of the guitar and an 
ability to master it with precision and flair. 
Now, recognition has come to Kottke and 
Fahey to a certain extent, but for the most 
part, Prine and Goodman remain un
knowns (except for Goodmans big hit 
The City of New Orleans, recorded by 
Arlo Guthrie).
Friday night Goodman performed in the 
Morewood Gardens cafeteria. In a coffee
house atmosphere, the cafeteria took on a 
new light, offering the CMU campus a 
glimpse of one of the finest guitarists this 
side of Doc Watson.
After a series of sound checks, light 
checks and voice checks a warmup group 
by the name of St. Thomas came on to 
warm up the audience. Composed of
three men and a woman, the group was 
only slightly less than saintly-sounding, but 
their music was good folk-style. Theyre 
used to playing in bars, and I kind of think 
they were surprised to find the audience so 
calm and receptive (in comparison). In a 
bar, chances are if one hears a group do 
more than one song its exceptional, but 
unfortunately in a coffeehouse everyone 
listens and a technique of performing 
where almost every song is similar (not the 
same, though) is not the best to use. That 
was St. Thomas only real fault, though. 
They closed their set with an a capella 
gospel-type thing, which, because of the 
lack of instrumentation, caught people by 
surprise. In any case, when they left the 
stage, I heard people say they could (and 
should) have stayed a little longer-the 
utmost compliment to any group.
Steve Goodman is one of those people 
who makes me wish Id never picked up a 
guitar. His style is in the folk-blues-country 
continued on page 12
Over 35 years 
of experience 
and success
Small classes
MCAT : DAT: LSAT : GRE: ATGSB : OCAT : CPAT : FLEX : ECFMG NATL MED BDS:
  Voluminous home 
study materials 
:
Courses that are 
constantly updated *
Make-ups for 
missed lessons
Pittsburgh Branch:
j-681-9735 
: KflPLflN EDUCATIONAL CENTER
1323 MURDOCK ROAD * 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 15217
Branches in u S Cilis
casts, Sixty Minutes does not resort to 
padding in order to fill its allotted time.
In addition to surpassing conventional 
television news reports, SM uses the 
medium well enough to tell its stories 
better than a magazine ever could. In this 
respect, it may be the first show to recog
nize the true possibilities of television. 
Imagine an issue of Life or Esquire sudden
ly coming to life, speaking to you, moving, 
visually capturing moods instead of tem
porary expressions. Thats just what its 
like, only its less traumatic.
Like a magazine, SM has several weekly 
features and these give the format a nice 
lift, providing contrasts. News briefs start 
the show and viewer reactions to previous 
stories are read at the end. A liberal and a 
conservative, usually Shana Alexander and 
Jack Kirkpatrick, respectively, debate an 
issue a week in the Point/Counterpoint 
feature towards the end. Though their ar
guments arent always original, they are 
always written well and, if nothing else, 
one can enjoy the subtle ways in which 
they question each others sanity.
Most people arent in the mood for 
news at 11:30 on Sunday night, and this 
is precisely why I recommend Sixty Min
utes to everyone, whether or not theyre 
regular TV watchers. The show is the first 
to expand th~ definition of TV news into 
one that can accommodate entertainment, 
intensive research and profound human in
terest. Broadcast journalists have repeated
ly told me that news will be the new fron
tier in communications. Sixty Minutes is 
already exploring it.
SHADYSIDE PRESBYTERIAN
CHURCH GYM
On Amberson near 5th Ave. 
TUESDAY. FEB. 11 
7:30 P.M.
VOLLEYBALL, REFRESHMENTS 
AND A SPEAKER

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-THE TARTAN-February 11, 1975
by Quiff
As Country music climbed to the top of 
musical fads in the late 1960s, a lot of the 
old country die-hards started to cash in. All 
the glitter kings and queens were now mar
ketable for television audiences around the 
country. Roy Clark was more available 
than Joe Garigiola. Singer Johnny Cash got 
his own successful television show and this 
put Cash in the position to display many 
new young country artists.
There seemed to be a type of Country 
music for everyone. The field started open
ing to minority groups such as Blacks and 
Mexicans. Charlie Pride developed a tre
mendous following, as did Johnny 
Rodriguez. Women, who have always been 
accepted in the Country field more than in 
any other branch of music, found them
selves gaining new heights at the close of 
the sixties. Loretta Lynn, Lynn Anderson 
and a giant list of other women artists were 
topping the charts, becoming the homespun dream of every truck driver in 
America.
When an art flowers and becomes more 
or less accepted by critics and fans alike, 
usually one or two artists of that particular 
expression become the symbol of the 
movement. Country singer Kris Kristofferson got the call. The reason that Kristofferson became such a heralded figure is not 
too hard to figure out. To begin with, he 
had an introduction like nothing modern 
music has ever seen.
With the help of the late Janis Joplin, 
the classic Me and Bobby McGee was 
introduced to the world. At the end of the 
last decade, good friend Johnny Cash sang 
the most incredible Country song ever 
heard. In fact, the Country Writers 
Association was impressed enough to 
award this tune Country Musics Song of 
the Year. The song turned out to be 
Sunday Morning Coming Down and it 
was far more than your average Country 
song. In fact it didnt sound Country' at all. 
Slow and very expressive, the lyrics suc
ceeded in evoking a specific mood. The 
idea behind the song was to explain the
V5)
lonesome feelings of Sunday morning, and 
it worked with all the feeling that any great 
poet could give.
The listening audience was astounded. 
Here were two of the finest written songs 
that had come to the fold in quite a while, 
and no one knew a thing about the com
poser. Well, actually Kristofferson had 
been waiting in the wings for some time. 
Kris was a Rhodes Scholar and an ex
helicopter pilot for the United States 
Army. He gave all that up to come to 
Nashville and try his hand at song writing. 
Sleeping in barrooms and alleyways, he 
kept plugging away and causing little stirs 
where he played. With a low, preachersure voice, he amazed local drinkers 
everywhere. Some say that it was his soft 
drunken style and his bar stories of women 
and wine that created his image, but in 
reality it was his slick use of words and hi?
ability to conjure images of lost loves and 
bad parties that won him the respect of 
more than one generation.
Kris cut a twelve song demonstration
record that got the kind of attention it
needed. As the demand for his* hit songs
increased, Kris broke out on the road. He
was playing the smaller cafes and the larger
bars. He was invited to New York and to
the Bitter End. It was in this Greenwich
Village nightclub that the press really got
their first look at the singer. His projection
was impossible to describe. He used a lot of
liquor to hold him up while he hid behind
his never-say-die showmanship. Time 
magazine caught on, as did a host of
others. Bob Dylan came round just to see
what all the commotion was about. If I
remember correctly, there was a young
female star who appeared on the same bill
as Kris. Kris really thought a lot of this
lady and he predicted a great future for
her. It turns out that he wasnt too far
from wrong; the lady was Carly Simon.
Kris went to his own graduation in the 
early seventies. He stepped up from bar
room entertainer to concert hall performer. 
His band grew, as did his music Kris re
leased his second album The Silver 
Tongue Devil and I in 1971. The response 
was overwhelming and he was voted Coun
trys Song Writer of the Year. He per
formed at Carnegie Music Hall in Pitts
burgh. The hall was practically empty, but 
Kris was still up to par. Standing behind his 
acoustic guitar, he stumbled from song to 
song, delivering each number with total 
honesty. Kris managed to send the aud
ience home with this wonderful warm feel
ing. The next day, though, my friends and 
I read in the Post-Gazette that Kris had just 
stumbled into a small bar in East Liberty, 
to drink his troubles down. It was some
thing that Ive never gotten over.
Along came album three and Kristoffer
son wasnt letting anyone down. With the 
help of the best studio musicians in rock 
and country, Kris continued to clean up all 
the Country awards with Border Lord. The 
big difference that Border Lord offered 
was its realization of stardom. Kris had
continued from page 11
tradition-not really any one of them, but 
all of them at once. His songs are about 
things, places and people he has known (or 
would like to know) and are important to 
him. He sings with humor and fondness 
about the Quality Court Motor Lodge 
somewhere in Illinois, a place that he sees 
many times in many places in his travels 
around the country (the song was mainly a 
list of the things he found thereincluding 
a Magic Fingers vibrator), and is part of his 
life.
He caught the audience and held it in 
his palm for the duration of his one and a 
half hour set. During the quiet songs, the 
cafeteria was silent except for his voice and 
instrumentals; during his rowdier numbers, 
the listeners matched him rowdy for 
rowdy.
Its hard to write a critical review about 
something I enjoyed so immensely. Good
man was superb; he gave one of the finest 
coffeehouse performances Ive seen any
where. Pizza Productions done itself good, 
but I guess you had to be there.
ZUCKERMAN FEATURED 
ON TWO INSTRUMENTS
The brilliant Israeli musician, Pinchas 
Zukerman, will treat his Y-IKC Music 
Society audience to music for the viola as 
well as the violin when he gives his recital 
on Tuesday, February 25, at the Jewish 
Community Center in Oakland. In 1966 
Zukerman gave his Pittsburgh debut in this 
same auditorium.
Since then he has acquired the rep
utation of being one of the busiest violin
ists in the world. His enormous talent was 
already recognized in 1961 when Isaac 
Stern and Pablo Casals, then appearing at 
the First Festival of Music in Israel, heard 
him.
Mr. Zukerman will play Bachs second 
Viola da Gamba Sonata in D Major on the 
viola followed by the second Brahms viola 
Sonata in E Major. The versatile artist will 
then turn to the violin and play works by
For ticket information, call the Y-IKC 
Music Society office at 521-8010.
ARLO!
Arlo Guthrie will make a rare concert
appearance at Heinz Hall on Thursday, 
April 17 at 8 pm. The performance will be 
sponsored by the Greater Pittsburgh Chap
ter of the American Civil Liberties Union. 
Tickets priced at $7.50, $6.50 and $5.50 
are now on sale at the Heinz Hall box 
office, Kaufmanns, Gimbels and Hornes.
YA GOTTA HAVE HEART
Area college students will show their hearts
are in the right place Friday, February 14, 
at the University of Pittsburgh Valentine 
Dance. The dance, sponsored by Pitts Interfraternity Council, will be used to 
benefit the Heart Fund.
Sweethearts and heart-breakers will take 
to the floor of the Student Union Ballroom 
in Schenley Hall from 9 pm to 1 am.
Students from all area colleges are wel
come. but tickets should be picked up in 
advance. Tickets are 25 cents per person 
with ID and are available at the Pitt Stufinally reached a point in his long career 
where he knew he had successfully achiev
ed recognition. His songs were now dealing 
with the problems of being an established 
star. Kris had become very conscious of his 
responsibility to produce more material, 
and the problems of being identified and 
hounded everywhere he traveled. This sort 
of awareness added a new dimension to 
Kris songs of alienation.
In Kris own words, it was album three 
that got him ready for number four and 
somewhere along the way he started work
ing with female vocalist Rita Coolidge, who
opened up new doors. Number four is 
better known as Jesus Was a Capricorn and 
Kris used this album to expand his musical 
boundaries. The Jesus album took and 
merged the many different forms of 
Country music into one big melting pot. It 
was with the release of this record that 
many former fans turned their backs on 
Kristofferson. Claims were tossed about 
that he had sold out and that Rita Coolidge 
had changed him.
Well, Kris Kristofferson didnt take 
those accusations lying down. His followup album offers many personal thoughts 
and reflections and it just so happens that a 
review of the album will be coming up in 
the next issue. Please tune in and find out 
how I deal with the latest album, and also, 
how it is possible to tie all this trivia to
gether.
PBT ADDS PERFORMANCE 
In an unprecedented move, Pittsburgh
Ballet Theatre is adding one performance 
of Romeo and Juliet to the already. \ 
scheduled performances in Heinz Hall 
February 21 and 22 at 8:00 pm. Restaged 
for the third time because of popular 
demand at the box office, PBT is adding 
matinees at 2:30 pm Saturday February 22 
and Sunday, February 23 to accommodate 
the overflow crowd. The move was pre
cipitated by completely sold out houses of 
the companys last two productions, 
Nutcracker and Swan Lake. Tickets 
are available at Heinz Hall and by calling 
281-0360. There are a limited number of 
seats remaining.
PLAZA SUITE 
McKeesport Little Theater presents Plaza
Suite as its third production of this 
season. It will open Friday, February 21 at ' 
8:30 pm with subsequent performances on 
February 22, 23, 28 and March 1,2,7,8,9. 
Sunday shows start at 7:30 pm. For reser
vations phone 673-1100-Group rates are

---------------------------------------------------

THETARTAN-February 11, 1975-Page 13
Bisons BowIn Bethany
by Jeff Englund
Before the CMU basketball team started 
its bus ride to Bethany last Wednesday, the 
players heard a few unexpected words. 
Wrestling Coach Paul Steva boarded the 
bus and said: Coach Yaksich is so sick 
today he cant even get out of bed. I dont 
know that much about the game, so I 
wont be able to change plays or anything 
like that. What I do know is that I want 
you guys to start thinking about basketball 
now, so youll be ready to play when you 
get out on th court tonight. I dont want 
another bus ride home like after the Hiram 
game. It was a lot nicer after the Thiel 
game, wasnt it?
After the Tartans 55-53 triumph over 
the Bisons (the only PAC team to stop 
Hiram this year), Paul Hamerly was asked 
if the pep talk had inspired the team.
It sure did, he said.
Greg Chambers said, We just wanted to 
beat them no matter what. We owed them 
one after that three minute stall they put 
on when they were up here.
Hamerly and Chambers starred in the 
Tartans stunning effort, with 23 points 
and 14 rebounds respectively. Wukich and 
Derringer, the only other CMU men to 
score, each had eleven points.
Playmaker Pat Ward did not score, but 
JV Coach Ted Barnett singled out the 
freshmans ballhandling as one of the major 
factors in the victory. He was very 
poised, Barnett said.
Barnett, who was not scheduled to 
make the trip either but somehow was 
picked up at a gas station on the way, 
thought the Tartans kept their heads. 
They hustled back on defense. They 
stopped the fast break and shut off the 
outside shooting real well. Of course, weve 
been playing great defensive basketball 
right along. Going into the John Carroll 
matchup on the 9th the Tartans led the
PAC in defense.
Barnett, formerly a coach at Thomas 
Jefferson High School, met Head Coach 
Yaksich at a basketball summer camp, and, 
since he always thought hed like to coach 
college ball, decided to accept the CMU 
offer to head the junior varsity squad.
The Big Red defense faltered against 
John Carroll, however, allowing the Streaks 
to run and score at will. The Cleveland 
school was blessed with a horde of fine 
shooters who also were quick getting 
inside. Hamerlys 25 points, Dane Wukichs
14 second-half points, and Dennis Der
ringers 11 rebounds were not enough to 
prevent a 79-67 rout. The Blue Streaks, 
who led by as many as 21 points in the 
second half, improved their league mark to 
5-4, while the Tartans fell to 3-6.
CMU
FGFTFTATOT
Derringer50010
Chambers35611
Hamerly103623
Wukich35611
Ward0010
Bonn0000
Boykins0000
Jason0000
Totals22112155
Bethany
FGFTFTATOT
Ali1002
Gandling91219
Wilson1002
Dulk'ski42210
Sackett1224
Miller1002
Haus2004
Debore1002
Lesnett2448
Totals2291053
JCU Topples CMU
by Dave Kanner
The ecstacy of a second road win in the 
space of two weeks quickly turned to 
agony as a sluggish Tartan basketball team 
was defeated 79-67 by John Carroll in 
Cleveland on Saturday. Whether it was the
3 hour bus ride or overconfidence will 
never be known, but the fact is that from 
the outset CMU looked tired and listless.
Earlier this year, the Blue Streaks 
defeated CMU 81-72 in overtime, and 
many expected the Tartans to win the 
rematch. The first three minutes of the 
game told a different story, though, as JCU 
jumped out to a 12-4 lead. From that point 
on the Tartans never got closer than 6, and 
by halftime they were down 42-24. Once 
again the big guns for the Blue Streaks 
were Dave Hosea, Saul Cyvas (10 points 
each in the first half), and Chuck Lytle 
who did not miss a shot in 4 tries. The 
Tartans shooting was better than 
adequate, hitting 46% from the field, but it 
could not match John Carrolls torrid 58%. 
Carnegie-Mellon even had to abandon its 
league leading zone defense to play a man 
on man for the last 7 minutes of the first 
half. It was all to no avail, however, as the 
Blue Streaks continued tc score at will.
The second half was more of the same
even though CMU outscored JCU 43-37. 
Saul Cyvas, a 67 freshman for the Blue 
Streaks, blocked shots left and right inclu
ding one shot by Paul Hamerly. Dennis 
Derringer came alive on the boards for the 
Tartans, and his rebounding helped keep
them within striking distance. With 6 
minutes to play in the game, and in com
mand of a 15 point lead, John Carroll went 
into a semi-effective stall. I say semi-effective because as soon as CMU stole the ball 
with 2:53 to play, the game turned into a 
shabby exhibition of fast break lay-ups. 
When the final buzzer sounded the Tartans 
were on the short end of a 79-67 score.
Bright spots for CMU were Paul 
Hamerly, who had his third 20 point game 
in the last 4 (including 12 of 17 from the 
field) and Dennis Derringer, who led all 
rebounders with 11. Dane Wukich again 
looked good, scoring 12 of his 14 points in 
the second'half.
For the second straight game, CMU was 
coached by assistant coach Ted Barrett. 
Head coach Rudy Yaksich has been ill 
recently and is expected to rejoin the team 
soon.
Bruce Andrews gains the upper hand in his 84 decision over Mike Bilika.
Wrestlers Triumph
by G.B. Gordo
The wrestling squad pulled out an ex
citing 24-16 victory over Bethany this past 
Saturday on their home mat before a loud 
and enthusiastic crowd. This upped the 
Tartans, record to 2-9 overall. And 1-5 in 
the Presidents Athletic Conference. Al
though a 1-5 record seems to be a some
what dubious thing to be proud of, the win 
over Bethany was the Tartans first PAC 
victory in two years and the losses have 
come at the hands of National powers John 
Carroll, Hiram, and Washington and Jeffer
son.
The wrestling team started off the after
noon on the right foot with freshman Dap 
Boger cruising to a 4-2 decision over his 
Bethany opponent. Dan clearly dominated 
the entree match but was unable to run up 
the score due to some unfavorable edge of 
the mat calls by the referee. Dan seems to 
be finally regaining his form after a slow 
start and seems to have a chance at placing 
in the upcoming PAC tournament.
Carnegie-Mellon forfeited the 126 lb. 
weight class, giving Bethany six team 
points and bringing the score to 6-3 in their 
favor. However, CMU bounced right back 
when Bill Aldridge posted a lopsided 9-2 
victory over his lanky Bethany man. Bill 
won his first match of the season in fine 
style and displayed an excellent assortment 
of moves in securing his victory.
Next up for the Tartans were aces Steve
Johnson at 142 lbs. and Dave Weeber at 
150 lbs. Both of their victories were signal
led by the slap of the referees hand on the 
mat as they each recorded pins. Steve, who 
believes that his victories are due to his 
extensive athletic extracurricular acrivities, 
got his pin at seven minutes and 47 seconds 
into the match, while Dave easily disposed 
of his opponent in two minutes and 35 
seconds.
Action slowed down somewhat for the 
team as Ron Smoko lost a very, very close 
match 5-4. Ron, who likes keeping people 
on the edges ot their seats when they 
watch his usually tense matches, unfor
tunately couldnt quite pull out the vic
tory. At 167 lbs., Joe Stas was unable to 
complete many of his moves to the fullest 
extent and was handed a 13-3 setback. 
Stas, a very fine wrestler, had an off day 
and really didnt wrestle up to his poten
tial.
Bruce Andrews edged out an 8-4 de
cision over Mike Bilika at 177 lbs., enabling 
the Tartans to stretch the team score to 
21-13. The Bethany squad still had a 
chance to pull out a team victory, but 190 
pounder Ken Goldflab put the match in 
the hands of the Tartans as he squeaked 
out a tiring but well-deserved 5-4 win over 
an incredibly strong opponent. Despite his 
opponents strength, Ken was able to use it 
to his advantage in the early portion of his 
match by using moves involving leverage 
and quickness.
At Heavyweight Tom Loeffler lost his 
match 6-5. On riding time, the 190 lb. 
sophmore does no qualify as a heavyweight 
by any stretch of the imagination, but still 
wrestled very impressively, only to be foil
ed in his attempt to secure a victory.
Womens' Team
In their only action this week, the CMU 
womens basketball team beat California 
(PA) State College 59-48 to remain 
undefeated with 4 wins. Jean Hundley, 
despite her knee injury, led the scoring 
with 21 points and 13 rebounds and many 
blocked shots. She reinjured her knee and 
if it is serious would definitely hamper the 
womens season. Elly Zimmerman had 15 
points and Marty Lisberger had 13 points. 
Rebounding was again a strong point of the 
team. Elly had 17 rebounds, Cathy 
Sundback had 8 rebounds, and Barb Toole 
had 7 rebounds. The team will face a tough 
Duquesne Team on Monday night (last 
night) at Duquesne, Geneva College at 
home on Saturday at 1:30; and in probably 
the toughest game in their schedule, CMU 
will play Pitt on Monday, February 17 at 
the Pitt Field House.
This Week in Sports:
Basketball
Mens Team
Feb. 12 Thiel at Home 8:00 pm* 
Feb. 15 CWRU Away 4:00 pm 
Women's Team 
Feb. 17 Pitt Away 5:00 pm
Hockey
Feb. 15 Pitt Civic Arena 3:00 pm
Wrestling
Feb. 12 Thiel Away 6:00 pi 
Feb. 15 CWRU Away 1:30
Swimming
Feb. 12 Thiel Away 8:00 pm 
Feb. 15 CWRU Away 2:00 pm
*Will be broadcast on WRCT

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14-THE 197193,February 11,1975
1000 Room-Size Rugs 
9x12s: $ 15-$ 19-$29-$39
Also 6x9*, 12x12s. 12x15s. etc. 
Smaller area rugs in Oriental. 
Indian and furry styles.
CHASE'S RUGS
4513 Liberty Av., Bloomfield
(54-C bus let* oH at the store)
Open Daily 12 to 6 pm 
Saturday 10 am to 5 pm
75 BUCKS FOR A SMALL TECHNICALITY
CARNEGIE TECHNICAL 
SPRING WRITING CONTEST 
Sponsored by Dean of C 1 7. 
H L Toor
First Prize: $75 
Second Prize: $50 
Three Third Prizes: 
Deadline: March 1
Articles submitted to: 
Carnegie Technical Office 
$25 Room 103. Skibo 
Questions:
Marge Rudnick ext 359
Hockey Team Stays Unbeaten, Untied
by Dave Girdany
In balmy Bradford, at a small outdoor 
rink, the CMU hockey team defeated St. 
Bonaventure 5-2 on Saturday eveing, Feb
ruary 1. Despite scoring five goals, though, 
the Tartans missed several good oppor
tunities which would have added , to their 
total.
The new line of Dave Cornelius and 
Matt Goldsmith centered by Mike Ken
worthy did well in its first game together, 
as it accounted for three of the five Tartan 
goals. This change was necessitated by the 
wrist injury of Tom Grimm, suffered in the 
Penn State game the previous Sunday. Tom 
was not absent from this game though; he 
served as the CMU coach and did a com
mendable job.
The Tartans dominated the action for 
most of the game, allowing only two break
away goals by the Bonnies best skater, 
Bob Higgins, against them, and these came 
in the third period after CMU already held 
a commanding 5-0 lead. One factor which
kept the score down was the play of Bo 
Barile, the losers goaltender, who made 
several good saves.
Looking at the Tartan side of the pic
ture, Doug Johnston did a good job in the 
nets, while Jack Arturo and Mike Ken
worthy each scored two goals. Matt Gold
smith scored the other Tartan goal. Larry 
Stuever also scored for CMU but his slap
shot from the left point went in and out of 
the net so fast that the officials did not see 
it. But this cannot be blamed on the 
officials; the nets were such that what did 
happen could happen.
In the first period, a twenty minute stop 
time period, Mike Ken worthy scored an 
early fluke goal for a 1-0 lead. Another 
goal by Mike and Jack Arturos first of the 
game later in the period made it 3-0 at the 
end of one. In the fifteen minute stop time 
second period, Matt Goldsmith and Jack 
Arturo made it 5-0. The third period was 
played thirty minutes running time and 
Higgins two goals made the final count 
5-2.  
Scoring Summary
First Period: (1) CMU-Kenworthy 1:52 (2) 
CMU-Kenworthy (Goldsmith, Cornelius) 
7:10 (3) CMU-Arturo (Hauser) 8:29
Second Period: (4) CMU-Goldsmith
(Cornelius) 0:16 (5) CMU-Arturo (Calla
way, Kenworthy) 12:45
Third Period: (6) SB-Higgins (7) SB-Higgins
RUGS
Save-a-Life
Mrs. Russell and Mr. Birdy of CMU 
Physical Education Department will co
sponsor the American Cancer Societys 
Annual Save-A-Life campaign.
All students, faculty and members of 
the Camegie-Mellon community are wel
come and will be eligible for the special 
awards, while helping further vital cancer 
control programs of research education and 
service.
To participate in the Save-a-Life 
Swim please follow the rules below:
(1) Pick up a sponsor sheet from Mrs. 
Russell or Mr. Birdy.
(2) Get pledges from your friends and 
family who will pledge to donate a certain 
amount for each length of the pool you 
swim.
(3) With certification of the lengths fin
ished, return to the sponsor to collect the 
money.
(4) The money is then contributed to 
the Allegheny Unit of the American Cancer 
Society.
Your participation can assure the 
events success and bring us even closer to 
our goal of wiping out cancer in your life
time.
Sponsor sheets and additional infor
mation can be obtained from Mr. Birdy by 
phoning ext. 412, or better yet, stop in at 
his office at room 104 gym building.
UNIVERSITY COPY SERVICE
209 N. Craig St. 681-5411
g- - -
up the puck.
Once again. Tartan skaters Mike Kenworthy (no. lOl, JacK 
intercept a St. Bonaventure advance.
19)
Photo by Mary K. Groupe
LOWEST PRICES
FOR COPIES
SINGLE COPIES........................
MULTIPLE COPIES
1st Copy.....................................
2-50 Copies................................
51 or more copies......................
Call about our large volume rates and delivery ser
vice - or any special copying needs.
Colating..............................................No Extra Charge
' ' 5< Legal Size.............................................No Extra Charge
3 Hole Punched .................................No Extra Charge
^ 2 Side Copying....................................No Extra Charge
 f ALSO
  2< e OFFSET PRINTING e LQWCOST BOOKBINDING
SOFT COVERS $ .85 and up HARD COVERS $3.50 and up

---------------------------------------------------

ATO On Top
by Mike Pochan
ATO, last years runner up in IM major 
basketball (not defending champs as 
erroneously stated last week), put together 
an amazing winning streak to jump into the 
lead in the major division. Falling to ATO 
were Salt and Pepper, Pride and PIKA 
within the space of four days.
In the first upset, ATO tested Salt and 
Pepper by two points, Billy OMara sinking 
a 15-foot jump shot from the left side to 
capture the victory 36-34. OMara totaled 
14 points for ATO while Ken Nash had 14 
for S and P.
Two nights later, ATO edged previously 
unbeaten Pride, 33-31 in a protested game. 
Pride captain Mike Hopkins protested the 
game on the presumption that ATO fans 
interfered with play of the game.
It seems that with approximately ten 
seconds left in the game with the score 
deadlocked, fans mistakenly counted down 
the final five seconds. Pride, in possession 
of the ball, heard the count and fired up a 
desperation shot. It missed and ATO grab
bed the rebound, flew downcourt and 
dropped in the winning bucket with one 
second left. The final score: 33-31. The 
protest will be evaluated at the next intra
mural board meeting.
ATO topped off the week with a 41-37 
victory over PIKA. Tom Tray nor was high 
scorer with 12 points.
In another close call, GSIA clipped Salt 
and Pepper 45-44, the winning basket 
going in within the last two seconds.
The standings in the majors are as fol
lows: Pride and ATO are tied for the top 
spot with one loss apiece, followed by Salt 
and Pepper with two losses, Beta-A with 
two and the Oragutangs and PIKA with 
three defeats.
One week remains in the season, so at 
the end of that, look for ATO, Pride, Salt 
and Pepper and Beta-A in the playoffs.
Another week of tough competition has 
thinned out the unbeaten contenders for 
the intermediate basketball crown, leaving 
six top-notch teams.
Phi Kappa Theta-A, Katoosh, Road 
Runners, the Players^ Coaches All-Stars and 
Black Heat re without a loss.
Other teams competing for a playoff 
spot are SAE-A, Violence, TX-A, Joy Boys 
and the Clams.
The minor leagues have five unbeaten 
teams-Chegsa Chickens, Phredberg Phools, 
Turkey Butts, Banana Griffs and McGilldoes-B. The Phools and the Butts, as 
wll as the Griffs and McGilldoes are headed 
for a big showdown this week.
Four IM sports rosters are due February 
18. Individual call pool, co-rec badminton, 
co-rec table tennis and foul shooting.
CMU-Pitt
Showdown
by David V Groupe
The arch rivals of Western Pa. college 
hockey, Camegie-Mellon ^id Pitt, will 
meet for the first time this season at the 
Civic Arena, Saturday, February 15 at 3:00 
pm. Pitt (6-0-0) and CMU (4-0-0) are both 
undefeated and untied in the W.P.I.H.A. 
The Tartans boast a 8-0-0 overall college 
play record, while the Panthers have played 
more games and have an 11-2-1 overall 
record, as of February 6.
CMU and Pitt have led in Western Pa. 
college hockey for the last few years; both 
teams have been considered among the best 
in club hockey nationwide. The Panthers 
have clashed with the Tartans seven times 
in the last two yearswith CMU winning 
three times, Pitt twice and two ties.
by Elly Zimmerman and Pradeep Govil
Within the month of February, a survey 
will be distributed among students and fac
ulty members to elicit their responses to 
issues concerning present athletic policies 
at CMU. A survey committee consisting of 
Pradeep Govil, Elly Zimmerman and Doug 
Konopka has been formed. The committee 
will be responsible for preparing and dis
tributing the surveys to campus residents 
through the dorms, fraternities, graduate
housing and faculty and graduate mail
boxes while commuters will be contacted 
through tables set up at key points on 
campus.
The question the survey is trying to 
answer is the place of sports in an in
stitution such as Camegie-Mellon Uni
versity. The importance of serious re
sponses cannot be overstressed. Hopefully 
the results of the survey will aid the ad
ministration and athletic department in
1112T,HT1E 1  ARAN-NE F,111TebruaAyF 15
The Tartans have been waiting tor this 
game. Pitted against each other the teams 
stood even at the end of regular season 
play last yeareach team had one once and 
one game ended in a 4-4 tie. But Pitt held 
on for the Championship with a 5-3 victory 
last March.
Tom Grimm, one of the Tartans starting 
centers, broke his wrist in the January 26 
game vs. Penn State (main campus) and 
will probably be out of Saturdays lineup. 
CMU may be forced to shuffle some of 
their lines and defensive players to cover 
this loss. Bob Arturo, a veteran Pitt skater, 
has been hospitalized for a broken nose; he 
is also a questionable starter.
There is always a big crowd on hand for 
a Pitt-CMU game, and the players are 
hoping for the biggest crowd yet this Satur
day. If you havent seen college hockey 
yet, give this game a try. It should be fast, 
exciting, hard-fought, and a close game. 
Tickets are available at the Skibo Infor
mation Desk, or from any of the players.
formulating proper policies in governing 
the athletic program at CMU. The survey 
will touch upon areas like the proper swim
ming pool hours, the adequacy of the 
present intramural and varsity programs 
and the appropriateness of the present ath
letic budget. Apart from these, the survey 
will try to determine the interests of the 
faculty and student community regarding 
various sports in the intramural and varsity 
programs.
The results of the survey will represent 
the collective attitudes of the student com
munity and faculty. This can be a forceful 
factor in determining the outlook of the 
administration towards the sports curric
ulum at CMU.
R-U TIRED 
OF
POOR SERVICE??
We service all makes
Try Pittsburgh's Newest, Most 
Modern, Service Dept.ALL
PARTS IN STOCK
NEGLEY KAWASAKI 
5101 Baum Boulevard 682-1205 
P. S. We sell new Kawasakis Too
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------1
FLYING HOME OR 
PLANNING A VACATION?
The Carnegie-Mellon Travel Office 
offers assistance for either.
Serving: Students 
Faculty 
Staff
& the Community
Monday through 
Friday
1 - 5 P.M.
Rm 40A, Lower Level 
of Skibo
_________________________________I
OAKLAND HARDWARE & TOY CO.
CMZJs Convenient Headquarters for Hardware
 Desk Lamps  Key Service  Artist Brushes
 Hot Plates  Poster Paints  School Supplies
3606 FORBES AVENUEOAKLANDPhone: 621-0923
Nowa Shrimp appetizer and a baked potato comes with our Rime Rib dinner. All far $5?5.
Now thru March 15. Order our Prime Rib dinner and enjoy a delicious Rock Shrimp Tail Appetizer 
and a big hot Idaho baked potato (with sour cream and chives).
Plus all the salad you want to make at Emersons endless salad bar.
And all the hot French, rye and pumpernickel bread, too.
Our Shrimp appetizer, Prime Rib dinner and baked potato would normally cost $8.50.
This month it s only $5.95.EMERSONS
North Hills  461 1 McKnight Road  931-6707 
Monroeville 3500 William Penn Highway  824-1440
Not Good with any other promotion, or the Tuesday All-You-Can-Eat Special.
Sports Survey
To Circulate

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-THE 197193,February 11, 1975
UNRAVELING
COVER-UP
BARRY SUSSMAN
Special Watergate Editor, WASHINGTON POST 
Will speak on the Editorial, Political and Economic ramifications of investigating government corruption.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 13TH 
8:00 P.M. SKIBO BALLROOM
Sponsored h\ the TARTAS. Activities board. Programming Fund. Resident Lite Program, and Campus Program Planning
SCHEDULE: CARNEGIE-MELLON SYMPOSIUM ON MODERN AMERICAN JOURNALISM
All lectures below will take place:
8:30 PM SKIBO ROOM 46
FEBRUARY 20
Ed McHale, UNITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL 
Robert Benjamin, UNITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL
"Wire Service News Coverage
FEBRUARY 27
Tom Kerr, Attorney: CMU
MARCH 6
Barney Calame, WALL STREET JOURNAL 
Business and Newspapers
MARCH 13
Susan Reimer, ASSOCIATED PRESS 
Eileen Colianni, FORUM 
Women in Journalism
