Vol. 69, No. 33C-MUTuesday, February 10, 1970
Michael Beard
How national resources and 
energies may be channeled to 
meet pressing domestic and ur
ban problems, and the politics 
necessary to bring that about, 
will be the focus of a Y-sponsored event tomorrow in 100 
Porter at 7:30 p.m. Main speak
er will be Mr. Michael Beard, 
executive director of World 
Federalist Youth, who represents 
the Coalition on National Prior
ities and Military Policy. Appear
ing on a panel with Mr. Beard 
will be Erica Borden, editor of 
the Tartan. Devin Goldenberg. 
junior in History. Leonard Fleis
cher. grad in metallurgy, and 
Mr. Wendell Freeland, local 
Black Republican leader.
Student political involvement 
tor change will be one of the 
issues discussed by Mr. Beard 
whose background since before 
college is that of a political ac
tivist. Before he entered Ameri
can University he was on the 
staff of Senator John F. Kennedy. 
During college he was chair
man of the Intercollegiate Volungeer Council of Washington. 
D. C.. as well as a member of 
a travelling studv-seminar in the 
USSR. Czechoslovakia. Poland and 
other European countries. He 
has been a teaching fellow at 
Harvard, on the staff of Students 
in Urban Action. Washington. 
D.C., and a graduate assistant 
in government and public admin
istration at American University. 
Mr. Beard is currently touring 
the country urging students to 
become involved in the political 
process of changing the nation s 
priorities.
The program is open to all 
members of the university and 
the community.
Scholarship Competition 
Announced by A Phi 0
Kappa Chapter of Alpha Phi Omega, the National Service Fra
ternity. announces the third annual competition for the Kent D. 
Shaffer Memorial Scholarship. The award of $250 is given to the 
roan who best reflects the ideals of Alphi Phi Omega, and the 
principles exemplified by Kent D. Shifter, (see front page of the 
C-Book. i The Scholarship is endowed and administered by A Phi O.
Competition is open to all freshmen, sophomore and junior 
roen. except brothers of Alpha Phi Omega. The winner will be 
announced on Call Day. April 18.
Those interested and eligible should write to A Phi 0. Box 100 
campus mail, or obtain an application from the A Phi 0 office in 
Skibo. Applications will be accepted until March 18. For more in
formation feel free to contact us at the above address anytime.
Senate Approves
'No Knock' Statute
Michaeil BrharhchdH 
oa wd ndticds
Washington(CPS While the student body of 
the University of Denver recuperated from the 
largest single drug bust ever to hit a college 
campus, the nation's lawmakers. 2.000 miles away 
in the capital are considering approval of a pro
vision in Nixon's omnibus drug bill that would 
give federal agents unprecedented powers to make 
drug raids.
The provision, already passed by the Senate 
70-15 would authorize federal agents to break into 
a home without warning or identification if they 
had reason to believe narcotics (marijuana in
cluded) were about to be destroyed inside. Known 
as the "No knock" statute, the provision now goes 
to the house where approval is expected.
At the University of Denver. 42 were arrested 
in a nighttime drug raid by Denver police in four 
campus dormitories and eight off campus housing 
units January 21. The raid nabbed more students 
than any previous campus drug bust. 28 students 
were arrested in a raid by 198 police on the State 
.University of New York at Stony Brook in 1968. 
37 police participated in the Denver raid, accord
ing to the Colorado Daily.
The University of Denver student senate allo
cated $4,000 in student fees to help meet bail costs 
of those arrested. The day after the arrest, approx
imately 1.000-1.5000 students massed at the union 
building to debate protest tactics. Three days after 
the raid, about 1.000 gathered at a city jail where 
some busted students were detained, they march
ed to the state capital building to protest police 
action.
Neil Rosenthal, former University of Denver 
student body president, told the crowd; "We've 
done a lousy job of getting it together. . . plain
clothes policemen don't look like 35-year-old men 
any more. The police . . look like us. dress 
like us and rap like us." Lt. Jerry Kennedy, in 
charge of press relations for the police, had pre
viously informed the press that three mod po
lice agents had aided in the raid."
University of Denver Public Relations Direc
tor Bud Mayer said police had been engaged in 
undercover investigations on campus for about 
one month preceding the raid. Vice-Chancellor 
John Blackburn denied the administration had 
played a part in the undercover operations, but
stated, civil authorities are properly exercising 
their responsibilities to enforce the law.
Chancellor Maurice Mitchill said, Let no one 
blame the universities that there is dope. I am 
sure we find it is those outside the university, 
individually and organized, who are behind the 
manufacturing and marketing of drugs when we 
get to the heat of the matter." 19 of the warrants 
used in the raid were for drug dealers.
Mitchell, who was quoted by Lt. Kennedy 
as having earlier estimated that 50 per cent of 
the student body used drugs, further stated, "As 
stated in the past, when the action of a few stu
dents has attracted the attention the whole com
munity it is important to remember that the great 
majority of young men and women at the Uni
versity of Denver are fine, dedicated young peo
ple who are a credit to the community." If the 
House passes the "No Knock" statute, it could 
open up a new era in the Nixon administration's 
drug crackdown. According to Senator Sam Ervin 
(D-North Carolina!, leader of opposition to the 
provision. Making it not law would only mean 
using the keys of the king to open all the doors, 
but using the king's axe to knock down the door 
and break the window."
Other senators have questioned whether the 
law would be an invasion of citizens' privacy. 
Senator Birch Bayh (D-Indianai said many Amer
icans still regard a man s home as his castle and 
might be inclined to shoot intruders (legally) who 
enter their home without knocking. Senator Thomas 
Dodd (D-Conn.), sponser of the omnibus bill, 
said, the hoodlums are watching us. the dope 
peddlers are watching us. They want to know if 
we mean what we say."
Dodd's original proposal was to empower a 
judge to issue a warrant for a no-Knock raid 
if he found probable cause to believe that illicit 
narcotics may be" destroyed or disposed of if 
agents gave notice of a raid. The Senate approved 
a modified provision allowing a warrant for such 
a raid if it is probable the evidence "will be" 
destroyed or disposed of.
The American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) 
has objected to the provision because in allowing 
officers, to enter a home without warning, it 
presumes suspects are guilty before proven inno
cent. This. ACLU savs. is unconstitutional.
Kinetic Art Film Series
by Ilene Gochman
The Kinetic Art is a visual 
least tor film lovers. It consists 
of 26 new films, holding acco
lades from a dozen international 
film festivals, presented in a 
three program series. Film mak
ers from France. Great Britain. 
Czechslovakia. United States. 
Italy. Yugoslavia. Japan. Hungary, 
and Germany are represented in 
The Kinetic Art series, which 
contains films ranging in length 
from 55 seconds to 55 minutes. 
The spectrum of subjects and 
techniques is close to all inclu
sive.
On February 20. 21. and 22 
the First Program of the Kinetic 
Art will be shown at CarnegieMellon University in the Wherrett Room. Tickets, which can be 
purchased at the Skibo Informa
tion Desk, cost $1 for students, 
and $1.50 or the three-ticket ser
ies for $3 for non-students. Pro
gram One will be shown eight 
times: Friday. February 20 at 
7:30 and 10 p.m.; Saturday, Feb
ruary 21 at 2, *2:30. 7:30 and
10 p.m.; and Sunday, February 
22 at 2 and 4:30. On March 14 
and 15 the Kinetic Art Program 
Two will be shown, to be follow
ed on April 4 and 5 by Program 
Three. The entire Kinetic Art 
Series is sponsored by the Activ
ities Board.
The Kinetic Art had already 
been screened at New York s 
Lincoln Center. Atlanta's High 
Museum, the Saratoga, New 
York Summer Festival, the Coccoran Gallery of Art in Washing
ton, the Los Angeles Museum. 
Houston s Media Center, and at 
many college campuses across 
the country.
The Kinetic Art films cannot 
be compared with the short sub
jects stuck in between feature 
length movies in the local thea
ters. The films are visual state
ments by poetic artistic directors 
and prove what can be done with 
imagination and sensitive camera 
work. They re not the kind of film 
that you walk out of a theater 
and leave behind.
The opening film on Program 
One is "Phenomena an abstract 
color film by Jordan Belson, who 
is a celebrated American experi
mentalist from San Francisco. 
Vincent Canby, of The New 
York Times says, Belson has 
composed a short, dazzling mon
tage of colors that makes the cli
max of Stanley Kubrick's 2001: 
A Space Odyssey* Look comickstrip representational............his
film is  phanasmagena of 
prisms, dots, and explosions of 
light that are as exhilarating 
as they are mdesribable.
Happiness made by Lothar 
Spree at West Germany's Ulm 
Film School, is the shortest and 
most memorable film. It is about 
an illogical and absurd encounter 
between two people on a bare 
field.
The most poignant film of the 
series is "Cruel Diagonals by 
Vlatko Filipovic. Its a stark 
black-and-white film about a 
small boy trying to survive dur(Continued on Page 4)

---------------------------------------------------

Pag 2THE TARTANTuesday, February 10, 1970
Coll** Press Service
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
Who Are You Anyway, Mr. Kelston?
Photo by JERRY SISKIND
Scaife Hall Fire
Three hook and ladder trucks were summoned to Scaife Hall 
Friday night as fire broke out in a second floor hallway. The dam
age was confined to a bulletin board, and was not at all extensive. 
Several light fixtures made of plastic were melted above the board, 
but the lighting system itself was not damaged. Cause of the fire is 
not known at this time. Security will conduct an investigation into 
this fire since it is the second this year to occur in Scaife. A third 
fire was reported Saturday in Baker Hall. A trash can was discov
ered on fire in the 145 annex. The can had been pushed up against 
the vending machines. No damage was done.
TRlQN
Published every Tuesday and Friday
Editorial and Business OfficesSkibo 103 
Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213Telephone: 682-4557
ERICA BORDEN, Editor-in-Chief
Associate Editor..................................................................................Jenifer Digby
Business Manager.................................................................................Sue Cattano
Managing Editor Wayne Barron
News Editor Jamie Edlin
Features Editor Chuck Daly
Sports Editors Alan Letit and Larry Brean
Desk Editors Meredith Hall and Harriet Nadel
Photography Editors William Pence
and Joe Tyler
Local Advertising Managers Pe99Y Hermann and Vic Lovuola
National Advertising Manager...............................................Beverly Noretsky
News Staff: Patricia McDonald, Pam Horner, Sue Shilane, Larry Stirling,
Murray Singer, Meredith Hall, Sara Cooper, and Andi Lieberman. 
Business Staff: Alina Lao and Mary Lipsett.
Secretarial Staff: Janice Herman and Sally Foss.
Layout Staff: Beth Anne Haner, Sharon Morgan, Ralph Pritts, Paul Sny
der, Mark Vogel, Jeff Green, Bob Hanna, and Chuck Daly. 
Photography Staff: Jerry Siskind, Eric Werme, Art Werchulz, Joe Rosen,
Marty Bauer, Dan Barnett, Randy Zotter, Jim Call, and Leon Pinkney. 
Sports Staff: Les Kovalik, Jon Swierzewski, Sally Wilson, Nancy Chand
ler, Jim Tomayko, Allan Henderson, and Scott Miller.
Letter to the Editor of the Tartan:
To Peter Kelston:
Dear Mr. Kelston:
Who the hell are you? You have absolutely no 
credentials in your gem of a letter. How am I 
supposed to respect the criticism of someone who 
comes off as a self made Oracle and Originator 
of the English Language?
Second of all, if you want the Tartan to be a 
perfect example of English, why dont you grace 
it with some of vour writing? I always say that 
any organization you belong to is only as good as 
you make it. (I know youre going to say something about ending a sentence with a preposittion.)
Third of all, if I communicated to you the 
feeling of no emotional response, then my arti
cle succeeded as a communications device.
Finally, if you still refuse to identify your
self beyond a good old English name, and still 
refuse to send in your precious literary works to 
the Tartan, then I shall quote a famous line from 
Putney Swope and tell you to just f-ck off.
Sincerely,
Tom Davis
It's Bland Criticism, Not a Paper
Editor, The Tartan:
1) Please change the title of your publication 
from newspaper to eight pages of bland criti
cism.
2) Explain the logic between the two follow
ing statements excerpted from your ARMY STEP 
article in Friday, January 30s issue:
He said soldiers and civilian employees of 
the Army with foreign-born spouses are currently 
barred from jobs requiring access to sensitive in
telligence, and this raises questions as to the
ability of Army intelligence to use its informa
tion intelligently.
3) Inform Drew Silver that I am not the local 
campus spy masquerading as the Apostle of Truth 
and Logic  or as any other Apostle (least she 
should try to come up to my room and tell me all 
about it.)
Alexander Riddel III 
Mechanical Engineering 
(316 Scobel)
The Killing Goes On, Keep Working
Letter to the CMU community:
The War in Vietnam continues is a phrase 
used at the beginning of many articles written on 
the War in the last two years. Some people say 
(with no pun intended) that the War is a dead 
issue. But the killing goes on. Adjectives to de
scribe the ferocity with which the U.S. pursues 
the war against the people and environment of 
Vietnam do not exist or have been used so much 
as to lose their meaning. The justifications of the 
Administration and the Thieu-Ky government for 
continuing the war are old and unacceptable. But 
the war continues. On October 15th about one
thousand CMU students march against the War. 
If the war was wrong then, it is even more wrong 
now. There is also little reason to believe that if 
left on their own our government will end the 
war in any sooner than three years. Therefore, 
all of us who said this country should withdraw 
in October have a responsibility to continue to 
act against the war until it ends. On Thursday, 
February 12th, 4:30 PM Rm. 46, Skibo there will 
be a meeting for all students and faculty with 
ideas (and a sense of duty) on ending the War 
in Vietnam. Youre invited,
John Agatst.on
"Do you have any choices?" will be the theme of the Alternative Ca
reers Workshop to be held on Saturday, February 14, in the Staff Dining 
Room of Skibo.
CIT and AMS students and Faculty will explore alternatives to be
coming part of the large corporations and defense contractors. Such areas 
as biotechnology, urban planning, and pollution control will be discussed, 
as well as the possibility of effecting change from within the corporate 
structure. Another possible area of discussion is life styles unrelated to 
present norms.
AMS and CIT students and faculty who are concerned about the pres
ent state of society are encouraged to participate in this workshop.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, February 10, 1970THE TARTANPag 3
Student Semite: Greater Relevance
But Exaggerated "Ho-hum Attitude
By MURRAY SINGER
Recent meetings of our Stu
dent Senate have revealed the 
development of several conflict
ing and paradoxical trends. On 
one hand, there has been a 
heartening tendency on the part 
of the Senate to act within a 
sphere of increasing relevance, 
with respect to both the C-MU 
campus and the community out
side. The exaggerated ho-hum" 
attitude of the Senate with re
gard to its own actions, however, 
has served to balance if not outwiegh the apparent concern of 
some of its members.
Two weeks ago. it was moved 
during Student Senate memeting 
that the C-MU students express 
solidarity with the students of 
Taylor-Alderdice High School in 
their conflict with the Pitts
burgh School Board. Despite the 
importance of considering the 
implications of such a motion, 
there was little discussion. And 
despite the lack of discussion, 
the motion was passed. An out
side observer might have con
cluded that the senators were 
tired after a long session.
One week later, however, 
vague doubts and fears were 
confirmed. A motion was read 
urging that the Student Senate 
suggest to the administration of 
the university the acceptance of 
an optional Pass-Incomplete sys
tem of grading. Such an action 
would free the student from
some of the pressure of the let
ter grade system, if he so de
sired. Once again, with a mini
mum of discussion, the motion 
was passed. It may be common 
for a disinterested student gov
ernment to ignore important mo
tions. but it is certainly strange 
to see these motions accepted in 
the same fashion. How could 
any administrator seriously con
sider a suggestion for academic 
reform which has been given 
only token attention by the stu
dents who originally supported 
it?
One of the problems appears 
to be an overabundance of sena
tors who regard their task as 
perfunctory who are willing to 
attend a meeting a week as long 
as it doesn't last much longer 
than an hour and a half. For 
these members of the Senate, it 
is convenient to vote either way 
on a motion in order to mini
mize the fuss and bother. That 
the proceedings of the Student 
Senate are dominated by a min
ority of those present, is not 
unusual, but this does not re
move all responsibility from oth
er senators. It is true that a 1*2 
hour meeting a week plus com
mittee work adds up to a lot 
of time, but no student should 
accept a Senate seat unless he 
or she is prepared to devote this 
time.
A second problem is the ter
rible lack of publicity on the
part of the Senate in behalf of 
its own activity. How many stu
dents on campus are aware of 
the efforts of the Student Sen
ate to develop a new disciplin
ary code for students and facul
ty? Or of the endorsement of 
the Taylor-Alderdice students? 
Student Senate should attempt 
to develop a closer liaison with 
the Tartan, and perhaps acquire 
a regular column in which sen
ators could discuss controversial 
issues and express their own 
views. This is not to suggest 
that the Tartan become a Stu
dent Senate newsletter; but not 
until the Senate makes some ef
fort to publicize its own activity, 
as well as to take itself more 
seriously, will any significant 
response develop on campus.
JANE B. DREW, Senior Part
ner, Fry, Drew and Partners, 
Architects and Town Plan
ners, London, will lecture 
about the general method 
adopted for education at the 
Architectural Association, the 
Department of Architecture, 
Room 210, College of Fine 
Arts, on 18 February at 4:30 
p.m.
Start out where 
its happening... 
in a meaningful 
management job
.*.*?. t.t !*.t..:
In the Bell System you start at management level. 
And we dont Intend to pamper you. We know by 
now that when youre fresh from the graduation 
ceremony, you have a lot more to offer than most 
businesses give you credit for. And well take ad
vantage of it. Well throw problems at you right 
away. Big problems.
And there are a lot of them. A field as fastpaced as communications produces them as fast 
as we can solve them.
We are Interested in aspiring people with Bache
lors or Masters degrees in Engineering, Mathe
matics, Science, or Industrial Management.
Meet company representatives from:
Bell of Pennsylvania 
A.T.&T. Company-Long Lines Dept. 
Bell Telephone Laboratories Inc. 
Western Electric Company Inc.
representing all Bell System Companies throughout the U.S. 
MAKE AN APPOINTMENT NOW WITH YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICE
We are an equal opportunity employer
Graduate Scholarship
Kappa Kappa Gamma in its Centennial Year is offering a Cen
tennial Scholarship on various campuses, Carnegie-Mellon included. 
For study in rehabilitation, in its broadest context, a grant of 
$3,000.00 for graduate study is available to a woman graduate stu
dent at CMU or a senior woman who plans to do graduate work at 
CMU. This open to both members and nonmembers of Kappa Kap
pa Gamma.
Awards will be made to those women showing the greatest 
promise, capability, motivation, and opportunity for improving the 
quality of life for her fellowmen. Termed rehabilitation scholar
ships, the grants will relate to work with the mentally retarded, 
the physically handicapped, the socially deprived, the emotionally 
disturbed, the aged and other groups handicapped by circumstanc
es of birth, environment, disease, or accident.
Applications must be filled by March 1 and are available now 
in Dean Kochman's office, Warner Hall, 209. Participants will be 
chosen by March 7 by a selective process coordinating a campus 
Kappa Kappa Gamma.
Students may apply, regardless if they are already on a fin
ancial aid program, fellowship, or scholarship.
Engineers:
Join the diversified world 
of Martin Marietta
and help create tomorrows technology in: Missile Systems, Launch Vehicles, Space Exploration,Advanced Electronics and Communications Systems.
Were looking for qualified Aeronautical, Electrical, 
Electronic, Mechanical and Civil Engineers. We offer 
them deep and rewarding involvement in significant, 
long-term Research, Development, Design, Test, Eval
uation, and Production programs in the fields listed 
above.
We have major facilities in Baltimore, Maryland; Den
ver, Colorado; Orlando, Florida; Wheeling, Illinois; and 
field operations at Cape Kennedy and Vandenberg 
AFB. Each location offers opportunities for continuing 
education with financial support.
Startotuwhweit u shpano
Mon. & Tues. Feb. 23,24
For interview, contact placement office. If unable to 
schedule interview, please send resume to:
Director, College Relations 
Aerospace Group Dept. 115 
Martin Marietta Corporation 
Friendship International Airport 
Maryland 21240
g.mfmlffj
ue gmyil bpparcyehc g,pladrfYild ar -d,ild

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4THE TARTANTuesday, February 10, 1970
GUERILLA THEATRE
The Revolution Lite Theatre will get together a special confrontation on Tuesday. February 10. 
The group was born during the Placement Office demonstration on Monday. February 2. at 
which time a typical CMU student was auctioned off to the Army and United Aircraft.
Its Good Its Getting Better
Individual & Institution
By VINCENT J. MISITANO JR.
Things werent always this way, yknow. A 
few years ago they didnt even listen to us. A 
few years ago they told us what to do and we did 
it. We smiled and we said Yes sir. But weve 
learned a lot since then. Weve done a little 
thinking on our own . . . tried to figure out the 
whole damn mess . . . see if we couldnt fix it 
up some. Well, were getting somewhere. We 
know a little more about how to talk to them 
nowabout how to get them to listen. Were doing 
things. Were moving. Its happening all over. It's 
happening here. At CMU. In Student Senate.
The senate talks a lot. To Warner Hall, 
Warner Hall listens. We didn't like it when stu
dents couldnt hear Von Braun because the Ball
room was full of outsiders. We hollered. They 
listened. It wont happen again. The senate wants
student representation on the board of trustees. 
We may get it. We may not. Warner Hall Listens 
... sometimes.
The Student Senate wants you to hear others 
talk. Alan Watts and Dr. Spock last year. Strom 
Thurmond and Arthur Schlessinger this year. Lis
ten. Youll learn something. You may learn how 
to talk ... to them.
The Student Senate wants to talk to the stu
dents. That's me. Im talking to you . . . listen. 
Senate is moving. Help it. Meetings are opencome to them  learn about it. If you like it. get 
on a committee, do some work. If you really dig 
it. run for a senate seat. Petitions in Skibo 103. 
Now.
Vincent J. Misitano Jr.
Student Senator
In 1962 a policy worked out 
in consultation with representa
tives of the faculty was estab
lished for the guidance of the 
staff on the separation of the 
individual's and the institution's 
interests with reference to pub
lic issues.
When it was reissued in Jan
uary 1968. it evoked some ad
verse faculty reaction and a re
quest that the policy be restud
ied. This has now been done 
and with the help of represen
tatives of the faculty it has been 
revised as follows:
A member of the faculty or 
administration, like any other 
citizen, has the right to express 
his thinking on controversial 
public issues and to make it 
known to others. In doing so. 
however, he has the responsibiliannouncing
An International Festival of New Film
ovd -hrHc u,drh1ie 0vaPhe7H 
b: 3. 0varc -hl,H :ra, k xayecrhdHWWW
      
                    
     
           ##             
                                he
a distinguished series of three programs presenting 
the newest achievements in creative cinema, 
by the worlds most talented film makers.
      
    rt   !       
among the films to be shown.*.
 VERSAILLES
by Albert Lamorisse, Paris
 RAKVICKARNA Prague
 DESERTION West Germany 
LA VITA Milan
 MIRACLE Budapest
 SAMADHI San Francisco
 WHY DID YOU KISS ME 
AWAKE? West Germany
 MARIE ET LE CURE Paris
 TONIGHT LETS ALL MAKE 
LOVE IN LONDON
with Michael Caine, The Rolling 
Stones, Julie Christie,
Eric Burdon, et al.
"The show was extraordinary... delightful, exhilarating, deeply moving ... Congratulations, 
gratitude, huzzas, three cheers and a tiger! ... THE EVENING STAR, Washington, D.C.
Beguilingly creative... diverting bill. .., THE WASHINGTON POST
PROGRAM ONE
IN THE
WHERRETT ROOM
FEB. 20 
FEB. 21 
FEB. 22
7:30 and 10:00
2:00, 4:30, 7:30 and 10:00
2:00 and 4:30
TICKETS - STUDENTS . . . $1.00 NON-STUDENTS ... $1.50
ON SALE AT THE SKIBO INFORMATION DESK
PRESENTED BY THE ACTIVITIES BOARD
ALSO COMING: PROGRAM TWO MARCH 14 - MARCH 15
PROGRAM THREE APRIL 4 - APRIL 5
ty to make clear that he is ex
pressing his individual views 
and to guard against the im
pression that he is speaking for 
the faculty or for the Univer
sity. When he presents his 
views to the public, he may 
identify himself by his acade
mic title and the name of his 
institution if he wishes to do 
so. but the fact that he is ex
pressing personal views should 
nevertheless be made obvious.
Some guidelines are desir
able concerning the use of Uni
versity facilities  e.g., bulletin 
boards, campus mail, mimeo
graphing machines, and office 
supplies (not including station
ery.) Such facilities are pro
vided for the conduct of Uni
versity business. Occasionally an 
individual may wish to present 
his private views about a sub
ject on which he feels deeply. 
In such a case he may use Un
iversity facilities to express them 
to others in the campus com
munity, not to the public. If 
this use makes only minor de
mands on these facilities and 
does not hold up regular Uni
versity business, it is quite ac
ceptable. But if substantial use 
of these facilities is involved, 
the individual should schedule 
minimal and should reimburse 
the University for 'the cost of 
materials and services. If large 
numbers of messages are plan
ned and especially if they are 
to be sent to groups of the pub
lic. the work should be done by 
a commercial organization. In 
any case the writer should dis
tinguish such messages from 
regular University communica
tions in an oppropriate way and 
identify himself as the sender.''
Kinetic
Art
Fxaecheyds :ra, Bi7d CN
ing the Nazi siege of a Balkan 
village. Deborah Little of the 
 Pittsburgh Post-Gazette ' says of 
this movie, It has to be one of 
the most simple and most honest 
films ever made.'*
Two Grilled Fish" from Jap
anese film maker Yoji Kuri is 
part antimated and part collage. 
This movie shows the endurance 
of man amid his inventions and 
expresses its creator's concern for 
mans obvious stupidities.
The last film of Program One. 
La Pomme" by Charles Matton. 
is Vincent Canby's favorite. He 
says the film is a moving blackand-white record of the things that 
catch and hold the eye of an 
artist in love with life. Drawings
..............emerge from still shots.
and still shots turn into moving 
pictures in a random way that is 
structured simply by the artist's 
compassion. It is a beautiful 
movie.' The technique that makes 
this film so absorbing is the brushcamera motion. As you watch, 
the camera dissolves back and 
forth from artists painting to 
photograph.
The Kinetic Art films are some
thing you won't want to miss. 
They won't be shown on the Late 
Show. Buy your tickets today.
Support
-the
Trrtrn

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, February 10, 1970THE TARTANPag* 5
A Tribute to Excellence
It is difficult, perhaps impossible, for a group 
of people to come to an unanimous decision about 
whom on the University faculty is a great teach
er. Sometimes it is even difficult to decide who 
is a good one. Because there are many paths to 
excellence in the teaching profession, there is no 
list of criteria against which teachers may be 
evaluated. A teacher who is fantastic according to 
one student may be mediocre, at best, to another. 
...Despite the difficulties, The Tartan feels that 
it can provide a service to the campus commun
ity by pointing out and recognizing those who 
have been highlights in at least one students col
lege career. We are eager to publicize the fact 
that great teachers exist; we think that they de
serve some kind of tribute.
We do not, nor can we, claim that the teach
ers interviewed here are the only members of the 
C-MU faculty who deserve recognition. Nor do 
we presume that everybody will agree that these 
seven deserve recognition at all. These men and 
women were chosen by members of our staff. 
There are many others who deserve publicity. We 
hope to pay a tribute to them in future issues.
These seven are not pointed to as examples of 
the ideal. They are simply people who have
won the admiration and respect of seven other 
people.
And of course we have ulterior motives. The 
University is blessed with good teachers and bad 
ones. These portraits are aimed at them too. We 
hope that they will learn something from these 
examples. We hope that we have communicated 
attitudes, behaviors, philosophies and techniques. 
Not that these seven are to be blindly imitated. 
But there are lessons to be learned from every
one.
E.B.
Each Class, one mind
By PATRICIA McDONALD
 We care about teaching.'' Dr. 
Afthur A. Eastman. Head of the 
English Department last week 
expressed this sentiment during 
an interview which was aimed 
at revealing his philosophy of 
education. Operating as both de
partment head and professor his 
responses came on two levels, 
that of administrator and that of 
instructor.
Administratively, when asked 
whether he places more empha
sis on academic certification and 
or publications, or on teaching 
ability when seeking out new 
staff members Dr. Eastman re
plied that he seeks "competence 
in bothexcellence in one. This 
in itself is a redefinition of the 
prescribed policy as it is tech
nically stated within the oper
ations of the English Depart
ment.
Dr. Eastman indicated there is 
no conflict between teaching 
ability and certification and or 
publication. He thinks of publi
cation from a different perspec
tive than do most people. Even 
the doctoral dissertation, in his 
opinion, is a publication. It is
an attempt on the part of a can
didate to present in written form 
the scholarly research he has 
been pursuing. Even though 
these dissertations are not pub
lished in the common sense of 
the word, they represent an ef
fort to effectively communicate 
a scholarly work. More formal, 
traditionally recognizable pub
lications will most probably fol
low such a scholarly endeavor. 
Dr. Eastman believes.
A form letter sent out by the 
English Department to prospec
tive staff members states that 
teaching is one of the factors 
given consideration in the de
partment's hiring policy. By 
and large, we have a strong 
teaching staff, and hope to main
tain a strong teaching staff." Dr. 
Eastman reports.
As an instructor in the class
room situation. Dr. Eastman had
some reflections on techniques 
employed to maintain studentinstructor rapport.$a
"I don't think of a class as a 
series of individual minds, but 
as one mind, intensely involved 
with a certain subject. Illumin
ations that comes to one part of 
the mind must be spread to all 
parts. It is in spreading this 
illumination that the instructor 
plays his role.
Lecturing is a pattern not usu
ally followed in classes small 
enough for discussion, lectur
ing isn't a talk. It is a relatively 
formal operation, bringing to it 
skills of writing.
In regard to student evalua
tion. Dr. Eastman believes that 
students are fairly sharp eval
uators " who can make a distinc
tion between a good teaching 
method and an interesting per
sonality.
To know how to suggest is the art of teaching.
Amiel
Express 
Yourself
Dr. Arthur Eastman
Bernard Sachs
them with an example of what 
college will be like, and simul
taneously provides the school 
with an idea of whether or not 
the students are teachable. Too 
many times a portfolio and a 
10-minute interview lead to 
wrong guesses. Couldnt the pre
college program be expanded to 
include all departments, and to 
benefit non-local high school 
students as well?
Bernie Sachs seems to think 
that the role of a professor, es
pecially in a professional school 
such as Fine Arts, is to give dir
ection, not answers. He says he 
knows his own limitations as a 
painter. Teaching is more forte. 
Perhaps he says this because he 
knows his philosophy, and be
cause he knows better than to 
try to bend a young perspec
tive to a model of one's own. As 
Shaw says: Do not do unto oth
ers as you would have them do 
to you. Their tastes may not be 
the same."
What one takes from ones edu
cation, is. then, purely a matter 
of taste. A professor who under
stands this philosophy, and en
courages his students to adopt 
it, rates our notice and applause.
Too Many Answers, Not Enough Discoveries
By JENIFER DIGBY
We talked over chicken soup and matzo. That is, he did most of 
the talking and I most of the listening. In the end I wanted to be 
able to pin down his Philosophy of Education. I suppose we got 
there after all, but the route we took was by way of Robin Hoods 
proverbial barn.
Bernie Sachs is a faculty member of the Painting Department
in Fine Arts. He also teaches a 
course in Drama. Straddling two 
departments gives him a rather 
unique perspective. Add to that 
the fact that one course is for 
freshmen, the other for upper
classmen and graduate students, 
and one begins to wonder how 
Sachs divides himself for the 
two roles. He doesn't believe 
that he's divided at all. He ap
proaches both courses as a pro
fessional. To the drawing class 
of freshmen he tries to show the 
various directions an artist can 
take. He'd like them to face up 
to being at the bottpm of the 
economic ladder. He'd also like 
them to realize the value of the 
works they discover or ' re
veal. The artist cannot eat his 
painting; it wont keep him 
warm or shelter him against the 
cold. But his creation is never
theless a piece of visual philoso
phy. It represents a language 
that can be communicated to 
others. And people may even pay 
money for its creation or its 
ownership.
While freshmen must be guid
ed in revealing what they see. 
directors must be taught to con
verse intelligently with design
ers. Again, we deal with com
munication. One is more or less 
a symbolic language, the other 
more or less articulate. Direc
tors have to be able to com
municate to set designers ex
actly the ideas they want to 
bring out with a play. Design
ers must also be able to bring
their own feelings to their work 
on a set. The theater, says Sachs, 
is a terribly combersome me
dia. Here the involvement is with 
people, vastly different from the 
individual level on which the 
single artist operates. The dir
ector cannot be an indiviaual ar
tist and succeed. There are too 
many other necessary inputs into 
the production.
After getting this line of dis
cussion out of the way. we con
tinued over coffee to talk of oth
er things. Once in a while he'd 
make a comment to me off the 
record, then throw in a quote 
from Shaw, then wed be back 
into freshmen. He seemed terri
bly interested in things going 
on around campussomething I 
didn't expect from one of the
cloistered set" from CFA. He 
commented, too. on education 
in general. It gives too many 
answers." he said. Education 
should make you make discov
eries. He laughed about the 
old no-longer-with-us English 
course for Fine arts students: 
Thought and Expression. Paint
ing is thought and expression, 
he said. T and E was more like 
Truth or Consequences."
One very interesting idea Pro
fessor Sachs raised was in re
gard to the pre-college program. 
He sees the program as an ex
cellent means of screening for 
admissions. So many students 
come to C-MU not really sure 
what they want to do and be. 
The pre-college course provides

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6THE TARTANTuesday, February 10, 1970
By JIM CALL
Learning is most effective and 
efficient when the student takes 
an active part in the process 
and a good way to facilitate stu
dent involvement is the use of 
groups and group projects. Stu
dents receive valuable feed
back on their performance from 
fellow group members and mo
tivation to learn may be gen
erated by participation. These 
are the ideas of an effective 
teacher. Victor Vroom, Profes
sor of Industrial Administration 
and Psychology.
Professor Vroom further be
lieves (hat if the skills one wants 
to develop are listening and 
taking notes, then the tradition
al lecture is a good teacher me
thod to use. for it gives one a 
lot of practice in these two ac
tivities. However, if the develop
ment of other skills or ideas is 
important, then the lecture, ven
erable institution that it is. 
should be laid to rest and be 
replaced with methods which 
allow the student to become an 
active participant in the learn
ing process.
Concerning the development 
of good teaching. Vroom says 
that while really bad teaching 
may be punished, good teach
ing is not rewarded by the sys
tem. The result is that while a 
minimum level of teaching abil
ity is required, efforts of a 
teacher to move far beyond this 
minimum may be in competi
tion with pressure to do highly 
rewarded, research. Further
more. universities tend to sel
ect professors on the basis of 
their research potential or per
formance, rather than compe
tence in teaching.
Fortunately. Professor Vroom 
is not only an accomplished re
searcher. editor, and author, but 
also an effective and competent 
teacher.
Let our teaching be full of 
ideas. Hitherto it has been 
stuffed only with facts.
Anatole France
Dr. David Demarest
By MEREDITH HALL
David P. Demarest has been 
using his Grendel voice at C-MU 
since he left Washington Uni
versity in St. Louis. For the past 
two years, half of his teaching 
load has been devoted to work
ing with Upward Bound stu
dents. He feels the best course 
he has had of any kind in a long 
time was last years Upward 
Bound class because the class 
was creative, intelligent, and 
very exciting. Demarest believes 
in maximizing the freedom of 
people within bounds agreedupon 
by people they're with; in 
that respect, the Upward Bound 
situation was good: Last year's 
Upward Bound group from 
twelve high schools" responded 
like gang-busters. They produc
ed good creative writing, car
toons, poetry, chalk drawings, 
and other wild art work that 
you see hanging on my office 
walls."
In one sense, every course is 
a good course because I'm doing 
something meaningful to me. 
By no means does successful' 
only include my delivering 
knowledge. Much of success' 
is what I gain from the students' 
creativity and literature we re 
studying. Last semester the 
Swift and Austen seminar was 
a good course for me because I 
admire these authors views and 
have wanted to teach them for 
some time.
The situation at C-MU is at
tractive because the students 
are good and the classes are 
fairly small. The worst thing 
from the standpoint of the Hu
manities faculty is that Carnegie-Mellon University's back
ground is technical and the Hu
Sally Pearne
Minimal Structure, Maximum Freedom
By ANDI LIEBERMAN
An ideal system of education 
would  provide minimal struc
ture and maximum freedom. "
Sally Pearne is an instructor 
of psychology and counselor at 
CMU: her youthful face is remeniscent of a pensive student 
rather than one of a college pro
fessor.
 Education ought to be self 
initiated. The problem were 
faced with is that children in 
grade school are taught to be 
dependent on their teachers  
do their assignments, answer 
their questions, and never fol
low their own inclinations of 
what they (the students want 
to learn."
Miss Pearne continued by as
serting that the concept of a 
less rigid educational system 
would be difficult to imple
ment. Students are incapable of 
handling their freedom  most 
have no directtion and don't 
know what they want to learn. 
Teachers lack the sufficient 
skill to handle this situation.
Teachers have been trained 
to control, and it's difficult to 
let go of that control.
When asked what knowledge 
students should acquire at Carnegie-Mellon University, she 
replied somewhat despairingly 
that they should know whatever 
will aid them in job applica
tions. She added that perhaps 
this is not the best benefit of a
college education, but it is the 
most necessary.
Miss Pearne said that most of 
her views on the subject of edu
cation have been influenced by 
two books that she has read. 
They are Education and Ecstacy by George Leonard, and 
Freedom to Learn by Carl Rog
ers.a
Miss Pearne is an alumnus of 
Muskingum College in Ohio. 
She received her undergradu
ate degree in Music Education 
with an emphasis on psycholo
gy. She later received her Mas
ter's degree in Counseling at 
the University of Pittsburgh. She 
is presently working on her doc
toral dissertation at Pitt.
grow out of my classes." In his 
course last fall, he wrote his 
own paper on Gullivers Travels 
and handed it to his students 
"to prime the pump." "we re al
ways in danger of quantitative 
measuring; it's ok for car pro
duction. not people. Quantitative 
measuring devices (tests and pa
pers for students, the rapidity 
with which publishing occurs 
and a PhD thesis for faculty i 
stamp out the ability to be crea
tive. Some professors may be 
working on an exciting idea for 
their thesis which has arisen out 
of their teaching, but if they 
don't have the PhD in hand, 
they are fired. I believe in al
lowing people to develop their 
particular talents without the 
system stulifving creativity for 
the sake of speed."
Demarest takes teaching per
sonally: "The end of a good 
class at the end of a year is like 
a death of a person or friend."
 Victor Vroom
Participatory Learning
Forward Looking...and Upward Bound
manities lack prestige her; this 
is reflected in the pay. which 
is lower than it should be. and 
tthere is not as much highpriority backing for the Hum
anities. At other schools this 
field is more honored and se
cure than on this campus."
Demarest feels it was a mis
take to abolish the Eras of Eng
lish Literature course. He sug
gested instead abolishing all 
formal upper class English 
courses except high-powered 
surveys in English Lit.. Ameri
can Lit., and Continental Lit 
can Lit., and Continental Lit 
(French, Italian Lit., etc. "Sev
eral faculty members should 
spend several weeks offering the 
students their knowledge of their 
specialization; the course would 
operate on a basis of revolving 
faculty." Students would take 
these courses on an audit basis 
or grad school applicants mightwrite 
papers for them.
Demarest said he may propose 
formally his new plan for Eng
lish majors: "In this new major 
besides taking the survey cours
es. six to ten students would as
sociate themselves with each 
teacher. Either there would be 
a program of individual study or 
this small group of students 
would study something togeth
er. Students would rotate be
tween teachers in different sem
esters. This program would em
phasize individual student miative and the student-teacher 
personal relationship."
"This program almost does 
away with classrooms. A class
room is more adaptable to a lec
ture or quantitative subject mat
ter. I'd like to change class
rooms into lounge areas or en
large offices to be more spa
cious and hospitable. Now 
classrooms are like compart
ments in a deep freeze. " He 
feels degree requirements should 
be minimized but perhaps there 
should not be complete freedom 
from the beginning. "Ideally a 
class should be as close to con
versation as possible with a na
tural give-and-take.
Demarest said he does not re
gard himself as a lecturer. He 
said Joe Baim. Art Eastman, 
and Jim Myers are known as 
good lecturers in the depart
ment. "Jim Hastie is an example 
of a good teacher: He has a gen
uine intellectual and moral com
mittment to what he's teaching 
and to the students."
In college I admired 3 teach
ers tremendously, one at each 
university I attended: Lawrence 
Thompson, a lecturer in Ameri
can Novels at Princeton inter
ested me in reading seriously;
we studied imagery and symbo
lism. I liked his honest approach 
and his concept that it was more 
important HOW to read criti
cally than the quantity of read
ing. At Connecticut. Leonard 
Dean's method of non-directed 
discussion impressed me as be
ing ideal; he'd just ask. What 
do you think of this?' The third 
teacher I admired was Ruth 
Wallerstein at Wisconsin; she 
was a flamboyant Grande 
Dame."
Research should be part of 
your general enthusiasm for 
what you're teaching. The dang
er of Publish or Perish is that 
research may interfere with 
teaching. Publish or Perish here 
does not operate as heavily as 
at some schools though. The 
standard of how much to pub
lish stays vague but it's clear 
that some publication must oc
cur. Research can be a help or 
hindrance to teaching. I have 
been writing short articles that

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, February 10, 1970THE TARTANPage 7
fbt hep I tBnshweu obnyB At w wthsb no rhwbtr bd w wbeuWk wbhu dbhw w wbeuWc,thpvt
fbt wrnt hep I titrut db hoaerto w At h wthsbtr obnyB Atk 
uw w epahrw beo du aeueuok Anw w WeuByt peuBo-cF. W. Robertson.
fbt Ithr I yoeuM utEo :A bho Wtaw tBnshweu eu gptresh IeIw 
thro AtbeuB ewo aooeAyt eparitCptuw-Dr. Eliot
by Chuck Daly
I feel that the proper subject 
oi history is the search for the 
truth, rather than the distortion 
of fact to fit personal theories." 
Such an ideal has echoed through 
the history of history itself. But 
how few of those invoking this 
ideal have maintained it in action. 
 One of that few is Matthias A. 
Ogutu of the C-MU History De
partment.
Intellectual integrity is part
icularly relevant in the case of 
Mr. Ogutu. a native Kenyan, who 
currently teaches a course in 
African History - a subject which 
is nearly totally ovscured by con
troversy. Rather than merely
A presenting an African's view of 
Africa, he encourages his students 
to formulate their own view of 
history through the critical comb
ination of factual data and vary
ing interpretations offered. In 
Ogutus own words. Teachers 
should strive to stimulate the
originality of the student through 
the encouragement of synthesis 
of materials presented into a 
coherent factual body."
As one might well assume from 
the above. Mr. Ogutu s classes 
are based primarily on avid dis
cussion of relevant topics. In 
such an atmosphere many view
points are presented, and by 
weighing the merits of each argu
ment. the student reaches his own 
conclusions -- hopefully without 
resorting to personal bias. Mr. 
Ogutu feels that the teacher's 
role in this process involves ask
ing the right questions and prod
ding the class with controversial 
statements when they seem to be 
lapsing into a lethargic state.
Although Ogutu acknowledges 
the fact that the teacher should
be very familiar with the topics 
' d intends to discuss, he feels that 
it is not essential that the in
structor be a native of the region 
of which he speaks. I might test
ify to that idea, for I had Ogutu 
as my Western Civ. teacher.und 
his proficiency in this area was 
nearly equal to his understanding 
of Africa.
Professor Ogutu has attempted 
to share his African background 
with the campus community out
side the classroom. He partici
pated with other blacks last fall 
in "Cultures in Contact. ', an 
African Symposium.
Unfortunately. Mr. Ogutu 
will probably return to Africa 
after completing his dissertation 
because of the high cost of living 
in the U. S.
Thoroughly to teach another is the best 
way to learn for yourself. Tyron Edwards
Dr. Bernard Judd
My Philosophy...An Anti-Philosophy
Photo by Marty Bauer
Matthias Ogutu
Intellectual Integrity
by Pamela Horner
"My philosophy of teaching, 
as applied to the humanities, 
is better stated as an anti
philosophy. I don't believe there 
is one correct method, or even 
one method, of teaching, partic
ularly since the field of humani
ties is in such a state of flux these 
days." o spoke Dr. Bernard 
Judd, assistant professor of Eng
lish. over a quiet lunch at Sodini's 
Tuesday afternoon.
Dr. Judd came to C-MU in the 
fall of 1964 after attending 
graduate school at the Univer
sity of Wisconsin where he was 
teaching assistant. Ai the spring 
of 1966 he completed his doc
torate. He got his BA and MA 
from Michigan State.
Dr. Judd expanded on his anti
philosophy, expressing his belief 
that the teacher of literature 
must be both an inspirer and 
an intrepreter -- he functions as 
an obstacle remover of the 
blocks to understanding in a 
student's mind, a lens through 
which the student focuses. But 
he must never put himself in the 
position of imposing on the stu
dent's thoughts.
These thoughts led us to an 
exploration of the intellectual 
life of the C-MU campus. He finds 
what appears to be an absence 
of intellectual life for the stu
dents outside the classroom. 
There is a feeking that thinking, 
if it begins at all in the classroom, 
ends at the door. "Perhaps the 
faculty is at fault here, and there 
may be a need for more faculty 
input, .but I'm not so sure. If the 
students want us. we are avail
able. but I would prefer to see 
the stimulus come from within 
the students themselves."
As we discussed the intellec
tual climate, we considered more 
closely the attitudes of the fac
ulty. concentrating on the English 
department. There tends to be a 
"polarization around those in
dividuals who voice their opin
ions. "These people are some
times referred to as radicals. I 
think it is more of a case of in
dividuals who believe very strong
ly in what thay are doing and are 
willing to discuss it without anta
gonism or defensiveness." Dr. 
Judd also acknowledged the 
existence of a general depressed 
air among his colleagues. "We 
have heard promises for so long 
that things will be better soon, 
that the inevitable pessimism is 
setting in. I asked him how this
Photo by Bill Pence
Photo by Bill Pence
"depression was affecting the 
clamor for change that is heard 
in the department. He replied that 
any reforming fervor is hard to 
maintain under the best of condi
tions. What makes this situa
tion particularly difficult is that 
while everyone recognizes the 
need for change, no one is com
pletely sure of what direction to 
take. The question becomes even 
more delicate when careers are 
at stake. "Do you work through 
or against the system.; which will 
further the cause and at the same 
time not put anyone in jeopardy?" 
Meaning, how do you fight tor 
a man without irrevocably iso
lating him?
Dr. Judd would like to see the 
University unde.- a general con
stituency consisting of equal rep
resentation from trustees, admin
istration. faculty, and students, 
rather than the confused system 
that exists now where different 
decisions are made at different 
levels and everyone is vague as 
to how things are done. There is 
no room for student input, and 
that should be a very important 
quantity."
Moving into lighter areas, we 
talked about how De. Judd came 
to be a teacher. The idea grew 
during undergraduate work, 
but the process of going on to 
graduate school was just plain 
dull and not worth discussing." 
Dr. Judd has thought of other 
careers, and is still thinking of 
other careers, but it would be hard 
to believe that he is anything 
but dedicated to his profession.

---------------------------------------------------

Pag 8THE TARTANTuesday, February 10, 1970
Earn Academic Credit on a South Seas Island
Tired of Pittsburgh? Want to 
spend next semester in someplace
a little different? Does earning 
credit on an island in the South 
Pacific sound enticing? The Phil
ippines Project 1970 gives C-MU
students the opportunity to do just 
that.
The Philippines Project is acontinuation of summer projects 
sponsored by the C-MU YMCA in 
1968 and 1969. During the past 
two summers groups of C-MU stu
V/A jrs JrV ,
dents worked as tutors and teach
ers at colleges in the southern 
Philippines, primarily in the Mus
lim area of Mindanao. Based on 
the experience of those two 
groups, who felt that their stays 
were too brief, the project is being 
expanded to cover most of the 
summer and C-MUs 1970 fall se
mester and is now an academic 
program. The five month period 
coincides with Philippine schools 
fall semester and will give parti
cipants time to become adjusted 
to the culture, to become skilled 
in their assignments, and to be 
most useful at the schools where 
they work.
The purpose of the project is to 
provide C-MU students and thier 
Filipinio hosts with a valuable 
cross-cultural experience, to pro
vide a unique pre-professional 
work experience for the partici
pants, to be of service to the Fili
pino schools, and to promote 
cross-cultural education at C-MU.
Students who worked in the 
Philippines during the last two
summers found the project to be 
very worthwhile. They were able 
to visit other cities in Southeast 
Asia: Tokyo, Hong Kong, and 
Bangkok. The Philippines was seelected as the location for the pro
ject, first, because English is 
widely spoken, and second, be
cause this underdeveloped nation, 
influenced by both East and West, 
has a particularly fascinating cul
ture.
Students saw the influences op
erating in another societyresi
dues of colonialism, corrupt po
litics, strong family and tribal loyalities, a struggling economy, the 
ever-present threats of Commun
ism and revolution. All the sites 
for the 1970 project are located in 
Muslim areas, which means that 
students will be working with a 
minority group.
Participants in the 1970 project 
will be assigned to tutor and as
sist teachers in Filipinio schools. 
To receive credit, they will con
duct independent research pro
jects. The situation provides num
erous possibilities for such study 
and will be done in coordination 
with departments at C-MU, such 
as psychology, social sciences, 
English, education, or history. The 
H&SS College Council has grant
ed up to 24 units of credit for inde
pendent study, and participants 
will work out requirements with 
H&SS faculty. Readings, research 
and papers will be involved. Par
ticipants must necessarily be stu
dents whose programs allow 24 
units of elective H&SS credit.
Assignments
Participants will be assigned to 
three institutions. Two students 
will tutor and assist teachers in 
instruction of English or math at 
Dansalan Junior College, a Pro
testant-sponsored high school and 
college. Two students will tutor 
or teach English, math, or social 
sciences at Agama Islam Acad
emy, a privately operated Muslim 
high school and college. Another 
student will owrk at Marawi City 
Community Center, a project de
signed to bring Muslims and 
Christians together, assisting the 
director in educational and rec
reational programs.
Application and Selection
Any student, undergraduate, 
may apply. First a preliminary 
application, available at the Y of
fice, room 57 Skibo, must be fill
ed out, and then a questionnaire, 
which includes essays and asks 
for recommendations. The final 
step in the application process will 
be participation in a two-day crosscultural communications 
workshop. Five participants will 
then be selected by a student-faculty committee. The selection will 
be based on attitudes, abilities, 
and academic competence.
Cost
Each participant will pay what 
it would cost for board, room, and 
tuition for a semester at C-MU 
$1,650. Limited financial aid 
will be available. Personal ex
penses will be additional, as well 
as a side trip in Asia which the 
group may decide to take.
Orientation
Participants will be required to 
take part in orientation sessions, 
which will occur during the latter 
part of the spring semester. Dur
ing weekly sessions students will 
hold discussions on Philippine his
tory and culture, receive training 
in the teaching of English as a 
second language, and plan the de
tails of the project and trip. The 
training sessions are geared so 
that udents will be knowledgable about Filipino culture and 
aware of problems they may con
front.
For more information, inquire 
Room 57, Skibo.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, February 10, 1970THE T ART ANPage 9Environment Forum at Pitt gshcar oa 0pdiE
Much publicity has been giv
en to the quality of our life and 
that of our environment-result
ing in many lecture series be
ing initiated throughout camp
uses across the nation concerned 
with our upcoming confronta
tion which compounding prob
lems.
On February 14th, the Univer
sity of Pittsburgh is conducting 
an environment workshop along 
these lines. On a larger scale 
the colleges and universities of 
Pittsburgh are sponsoring a 
three day program (April 1st, 
2nd, and 3rd) which will cover 
these issues again with an em
phasis on enabling people to get 
involved in their solutions.
The high points of the pro
gram will be a televised session 
with some big named speakers 
and a folk concert. However, 
these high points do not consti
tute what we need along the 
line of action motivators. If 
there are ideas in the student 
body, faculty, or administration 
for panels, workshops, films, 
speakers, guerilla theatre, etc., 
contact:
Bob Kambic 683-7425
There is special work being 
done to carry out our message 
to the community through spe
cial services. Our services will 
provide speakers, films, slide 
shows to community organiza
tions. A united effort form on
informed community of techno
logies, industries, and citizens 
should be made in the solution 
of our environmental problems. 
Those interested in organizing 
and working in such an effort 
should come to our meeting:
..Wednesday, Feb. 11th, 7:30 
p.m., Skibo 57
Further information call:
Bill Leber or Sally Greenburg 
or 621-2600 ext. 239 or 416.
uc Maae -ary,
GATHERING 
for all students and faculty 
who want to end the 
WAR IN VIETNAM 
to discuss ideas and plane to
The Ys Thursday Noon For
um moves to a new location this 
weekthe Staff Cafeteria on the 
ground floor of Skibo next to the 
main dining area. The move will 
make the weekly program acces
sible to more people, particular
ly students.
Speaker this week will be Mr. 
Frank N. Hawkins, editor of the 
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. Mr. 
Hawkins will speak on A
Newspapers Responsibility to 
Its Community, emphasizing 
particularly what community the 
Post-Gazette feels responsible to 
and how it defines the best inests of that community.
As before, the Forum is open 
to everyone, who may bring 
their lunch to the 12:30 pro
gram. Questions and discussion 
will follow the talk, with adjournament by 1:30.
UKN fPU OgS TK HTUfKg.
Thursday, February 12th
4:30 p.m.. Room 46, Skibo
the war continuel the war continu!
the war continues the war continues
the war continues the war continues
GRADUATE STUDENTS
Graduate fee settlement for tuition, room, board charges, etc., for 
the spring semester, 1970, will be held February 16th and 17th from 
8:30a.m. to 4:30 p.m. In addition,the Cashier's Office will be open February 
17th from 6:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. Graduate students will receive a copy of 
their account which is to be settled on those dates. In the event a graduate 
student has not received a copy of his account by February 12, 1970, he 
should contact the Cashier's Office.
Those graduate students receiving stipends and/or paychecks from the 
University and who desire a deferred payment plan will be required to sign 
a promissory note authorizing the University to take deductions in equal 
monthly installments - the last deduction to be made in May, 1970.
Those graduate students who do not receive a stipend and/or paycheck 
from the University and who desire a deferred payment plan will also be 
required to sign a promissory note for monthly payments. There is no service 
charge for deferring payment.
Campus Camera Headquarters 
FOR ALL YOUR 
PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS
We Rent and Repair Typewriters Xl\//
Kineti ecKAirFe
Student Discount on Most Items
3711 FORBES AVENUEPhonet 083*2181
ATTENTION: GUYS 8 GALS 
Already 6300 guys and 5200 gals from 
PITT, CMU and DUQ. have joined 
COMP-DATE-MATE.
It is not too late to join. Write:
COMP-DATE-MATE 
P. O. Box 11203 Pittsburgh, Pa. 15238
FPR THE LAST TIME UNTIL 1976!!
Friday the Thirteenth
Dennis Ferry
Jazz Quartet
Valentines Day
Eric & John,
Folk & Pop Artists
Two Unforgettable Evenings 
In The Faculty Dining Room
8
:00
P.M.till1:00
A.M.
FREE COFFEE, DONUTS, PUNCH
Admission: 25* With Student I.D.
STOLEN:
YR Lwtrt gyAnpok h Fhuhoues ShBek huB h FyhreB JhuB Vhptrh xqD dewb 
Iyhob c Irp ;&; Nuutr Phyy Atwdttu x2DD huB Y2;D a-p- u ltA- xk &34DREWARD *25
Fythot2 opt I wbt hyAnpo hrt errt ayhshAyt- Ot dnyB At prt wbhu deyyC
euM w btya n what wbtpk Anw aythot rtwnru wbtp- K Gntoweuo hoWtBSteven Bell 
Lee Austin 
687-3059

---------------------------------------------------

Pag 10THE TARTANTuesday, February 10, 1970
Tartans Lose 2 More Games
Team Continues To Fold In Closing Minutes
Saturday evening, the Tartans travelled to Waynesburg to meet a team which they have 
beaten seven straight times. Bob Brown poured in 27 points, and Bob Grazzini added 20, but 
CMU lost its eleventh game to the Yellow Jackets. The score was 75-72.
Waynesburg, a team which suffered through a terrible season last year in order to give 
their freshmen and sophs experience under fire, jumped out to a 44-38 halftime lead. Most
of their buckets came on fast 
breaks which left the Tartans 
caught upcourt.
As usual, the Carnegie five 
came back to knot the score.
They even took the lead mom
entarily as Bill Weborgs two 
pointer put Tech ahead 64-63.
But clutch turnovers enabled the 
home team to take the lead for 
good and pick up the victory.
Ed Zenewicz led Waynesburg 
with 18 points.
This win was the eighth for 
the Yellow Jackets in fifteen con
tests  a respectable record 
which must make last years off
season worth the price.
Earlier in the week the Tar
tans dropped a 64-55 decision to 
Denison at Skibo gym. The Big 
Red trailed only once when 
Grazzini started the scoring for 
the night with a jumper from the 
corner for a 2-0 lead. CMU tied 
the game a few times after that 
but were forced to play catch
up throughout most of the game.
Charles Claggett, who has 
scored more points than anyone 
in Denison history, was the top 
point-maker with 27. The 68 
center also controlled the boards 
with 17 rebounds.
The game featured numerous 
turnovers and poor shooting by 
both teams in the opening peri
od. Denison pulled away to a 
25-17 lead shortly before the 
end of the half but the Tartans 
fought back to trail by two, 26- 
24, going into the dressing room.
Bob Brown had an off night 
for the Tartans but he and Bob 
Grazzini combined to bring CMU 
to within a point at 48-47 after 
Denison had pulled away for a 
seven point lead. The Tartans 
got the ball back but Brown 
missed a long jumper and the 
Big Red controlled the rest of 
the game.
Fxaecheyds ae Bi7d C3N
By JERRY SISKIND
CMU Captain Bill Abraham (42) figures out how to stop Denisons 
high scorer, Charley Claggett, from getting his hands on the ball. 
Despite the efforts of Bob Grazzini and Abraham, Claggett manag
ed to top all scorers with 26 points. And Denison won, 65-56.
Basketball Statistics
C-MUGFPts.WaynesburghGF Pts.
Cotter21-15Zenewicz90-1 18
Abraham54-614McMahon33-4 9
Grazzini76-920Maczuzak62-5 14
Brown131-127Sheffield62-5 14
Stobbe00-10Miller20-0 4
Weborg20-04Bynum65-7 17
Conrad10-02 
-----------------------------3211-21 75
3012-1872Waynesburg4431-75
Carnegie3834-72
Basketball Schedule
C-MUOpponent
67Westminster73
70Grove City98
70St. Vincent74
73Oberlin82
71Geneva67
67W&J74
68Denison77
84St. Vincent74
63Estminster65
56Pitt72
55Denison64
72Waynesburg75
Feb. 11 at Allegheny
Feb. 18-Marietta
Feb. 20 at Case
Feb. 21 at W. Reserve
*Feb. 23--Waynesburg
*Feb. 25--Geneva
*Feb. 28--Pitt
March 3 at Thiel
?March 4 at W&J
*Also JV Game.
By JERRY SISKIND
BOB GRAZZINI draws a charging foul the hard way as hes knock
ed down by Denison freshman John Sloan. Grazzini scored 17 points 
for CMU while Sloan picked up 19 points for visiting Denison.
OgKfUN
ATHLETIC TRAINER for 
VARSITY ATHLETICS
High School Experience
?
Contact: 
RAYMOND E. HAYNES 
Gym 102
WTANSportS
Staar oautwheS Suii 
uspinag
I.M. REVIEW
MAJOR LEAGUES 
KNICKS LEAGUE
The Black Magics overtook the 
Fingers 53-43 as Fields scored 
22 for the Magics and Pelto had 
18 for the losers. Burner tallied 
16 and Modzelewski 14 to lead 
the EJ Bruins to a 55-35 win 
over Old Men W. BTP A 
took an easy 72-14 game from 
ATO B as Petrosky hit for 20 
and Onda scored 19. In other 
games the Fingers trounced DU 
A 61-31 behind Simons 17
BULLETS LEAGUE
TDP A topped BTP CMen 49-20 as Brean scored 16 
and Arnold 12. KS won twice 
with Peretich scoring 17 in a 53-
24 win over BTP C-Men and 
Peretich hitting for 28 in a 57-
25 decision over 4E A. Letzt 
had 18 and Keller 13 in an easy 
win for SAE A against PKT 
Gold, 63-9. ATO A beat the 
Shrinks 70-25 as Bugel scored 
28.
points, and DU A edgedtheStandingsWLUnderdogs 47-46 withStavisTDP A40scoring 21 for the winners.KS40
StandingsWLATO A30
Black Magics40SAE A30
EJ Bruins30PKT Gold03
BTP A30Shrinks03
DU A22BTP C-Men04
Old Men W124E A04
Fingers13
ATO B03
Underdogs04HAWKS LEAGUE
BUCKS LEAGUE
The Old Men A topped Reg
gie Show 52-43 to remain as the 
only undefeated team. Mullins 
scored 18 and Sehlin 13 for the 
Old Men while Gatewood tallied 
18 for the losers. TZK won twice 
last week beating DTD 41-16jnd edg 
ing PKA A 37-35 as 
Ross had 16 points. Drozd had 
18 as SN B beat TDP B 39- 
9. DTD won 37-19 over PKT 
White with Suter scoring 20.
Hopkins scored 22 as Oakland 
A edged the JV Scrubs 47-44. 
GSIA also remained undefeated 
as DeLone hit for 12 in a 47-24 
victory over ATO Job. SN 
A topped BTP B 40-29 with 
Shaffer leading SN with 13 
points. The JV Scrubs beat PKT 
Purple 34-22 and the Archi
tects outscored PKT Purple 50- 
34 as Moroz had 17.
Standings
Old Men A 
TZK
Reggie Show 
SN B
PKA A 
DTD 
TDP B 
PKT White
W
3
3
2
2
0
2
0
0
Standings
Oakland A 
GSIA 
SN A
BTP B
JV Scrubs 
PKT Purple 
Architects 
ATO Job
W
4
3
2
1
1
1
1
0
Fxaecheyds ae Bi7d CCN
By RICKY ROSENBERG
Violent intramural basketball action occurred furing Jag League 
game in gym last week.

---------------------------------------------------

CMU Swimmers Defeat Thiel
Tuesday, February 10, 1970THE TARTANPage 11
Intramural Review
By SCOTT MILLER
Swim coach Steve Fagen was 
all wet Saturday after CMU 
dunked Thiel 64-40. Throwing 
the coach in the pool after a vic
tory is the traditional method tor 
swimmers to show affection for 
their leader and Saturday was 
the second time this year Fagen 
was in need of dry clothes.
CMU grabbed the lead early 
by sweeping the 440-6d. med
ley. the 1000-vd. freestyle, and 
the 200-yd. freestyle. Tech's 
Jeff LaRochelle. Bob McIntyre 
and Pat Lowry were double win
ners. but CMU's Lloyd Miller 
was the high point-getter with a 
near-record win in the 200-yd. 
individual medley, a first in the 
200-yd. breaststroke, and a win 
in the medley relay.
In the diving competition 
CMU's Scott Provan placed sec
ond behind Drenocky of Thiel.
..The team is now 2-3 and 
CMU will have a chance to een 
its record when the Allegheny 
swimmers visit the Tech pool on 
Tuesday. Last Tuesday the Tech 
team dropped a touch meet to 
Indiana.
STATISTICS:
400 medley relay  CMU (Lo
wry, Miller. LaRochelle. McCaffertyt. T-4:33.6.
1000 freestyleMcIntyre (Ci; 
2King (Ti; 3Sivak (C). T 
12:50.4.
200 freestyleMehl (C; 2-
Hoercher (T); 3Krauss (T). T2:05.1.
50 freestyleKlaiber <T>; 2 
Beal <C>; 3Freeman (C>. T
24.6.
200 Individual medley  Mill
er (C); 2Hoyson (C >; 3Sloan 
(T). T2.24.6.
Diving  Drenocky (T>; 2  
Provan (Ci; 3Brandis (T). Pts
65.85/
200 butterfly  LaRochelle 
(Ci; 2McCafferty (C); 3Hoercher (T). T7/82:26.5.
100 freestyleKlaiber (Ti; 2 
Mehl (Ci; 3Beal <C); T 55.2.
200 backstrokeLowry < C i; 2 
Sloan (T>; 3Sauter (Ti. T
2:32.5.
500 freestyleMcIntyre (C>; 
2King (T*; 3 McCaffertv <C>. 
T6.06.
200 breastrokeMiller (C>; 2 
Hoyson <C); 3Hamilton (T>. T 
2:43.6.
400 freestyle relayThiel (Hoercher. Klaiber. Krauss, Grinmki
T3:50.5.
IM Board 
Meeting
The following constitutional 
motion was passed Thursday by 
a 7-1 vote:
Any student competing in a 
varsity sport cannot participate 
n that intramural sport during 
the same year. A varsity player 
who is not on probation and who 
quits the varsity before the end 
of the first semester may parti
cipate in that intramural sport 
for the second semester provid
ing he did not play in any var
sity games the first semester. 
The term  varsity game does 
not include junior varsity games.
The motion was made retroac
tive by a unanimous vote.
Vol V.6l9
DueTues Feb. 10 
Table Tennis-singles 
Table Tennis-doubles 
Call pool
Due Tues. Feb. 24 
poul Shooting 
Co-Rec Table Tennis
Action in diving competition at CMU-Thiel swim meet. The Tech 
swimmers won 64-40 bringing their record to 2-3.
Fxaecheyds :ra, Bi7d CAN
MINOR LEAGUES
PACERS LEAGUE 
Old Men PPE edged EJ Con
spiracy 28-26 and Scobell High 
beat the Globetrotters 42-24 as 
Calbertson scored 16.
Standings
Hammers 
Has Beens 
Old Men PPE,
Scobell High 
EJ Conspiracy
Globetrotters
COLONELS LEAGUE
The Heads topped the Bomb
ers 39-17 and Sludge beat PKA 
Gods 68-19.
StandingsWL
Sludge20
Heads10
PKA Gods11
Bombers10
ATO SrJ.01
APO Lobsters01
ROCKETS LEAGUE
The 6th Floor Bombers beat 
EJ Cheapos 25-23 and also 
outscored PKA B 54-36 as Se
gal scored 17 for the winners 
and Kaplan had 22 for PKA. DU 
J beat BTP Flamers 21-12.
Standings W L
6th Floor Bombers 2 0
Oakland B 1 0
DU J 1 0
EJ Cheapos 0 1
BTP Flamers 0. 1
COUGARS LEAGUE
Mayo had 30 as SAE Gold 
trounced PKT Streak 75-2. 
BSR topped SN Wee 5 39-19 
and Mariettas 19 points led EJ 
Bandits over PKT Streak 46- 
11.
StandingsWL
EJ Bandits20
SAE Gold10
BSR10
SN Wee 501
4EB01
PKT Streak02
wL
10
10
10
11
01
02
discover the unknown, inventing new 
materials and putting them to work, 
using research and engineering to create 
the ideas and products of the future 
this is the venture Du Pont people are 
engaged in.
For a variety of career opportunities, 
and a chance to advance through many 
fields, talk to your Du Pont Recruiter. 
Or send us the coupon.
<HP)
M u  MT.*
Ventures for better living.
Venture: Cook exhausts to clear the air.
The problem: minimize the part the 
internal combustion engine plays in air 
pollution.
The primary goal: reduce auto exhaust 
emissions dramatically through some 
simple, inexpensive but effective method.
The solution? Five years of research 
and development work by scientists, 
engineers and technicians at Du Pont 
have produced a non-catalytic emissions 
control device called the exhaust mani
fold reactor. It has achieved the best 
control of auto emissions by any system 
known to date.
Mounted in place of the conventional 
exhaust manifold, the reactor is an insu
lated outer shell with a tubular core. 
Exhaust gases, mixed with injected air, 
are held in the high-temperature zone 
of the inner core until they are almost 
completely oxidized.
The principle of finishing the combus
tion process in the exhaust system is not 
a new one. But what is new is the effec
tiveness of Du Ponts device.
In individual tests of up to 100,000 miles, 
emission levels have been below 30 
ppm hydrocarbons and 0.6% carbon 
monoxide, compared with 1970 standards 
of 180 ppm hydrocarbons and 1.0% carbon 
monoxide. And reactors now being tested 
have further reduced carbon monoxide 
emissions to 0.26%.
The reactor system can be adapted 
to any gasoline-burning automobile 
engine. And soon metals research 
should develop the low-cost materials 
needed to make the reactor economical 
for all new cars.
Innovationapplying the known to
YTD,,
Du Pont Company, Room 7893, Wilmington, DE 19696
Please send me the booklets checked below.
? Chemical Engineers at Du Pont
? Mechanical Engineers at Du Pont
? Engineers at Du Pont? Accounting, Data Systems, Marketing, Production 
Name
University
DegreeGraduation Date
Address
CityRt*t Zip
An Equal Opportunity Employer (M/F)

---------------------------------------------------

Pag 12THE TARTANTuosday, February 10, 1970
r
McKENDREE 
SPRING
FRIDAY, 
February 27, 
8:30 P.M.
SKIBO 
BALLROOM
Sponsored by the Activities Board
Black Newspaper Discussed
by Barbara Hobbs
Carl Morris, executive editor 
and journal manager of the Pitts
burgh Courier, spoke last week to 
the Thursday Noon Forum about 
The Black Newspaper and Its 
Community. He attempted to out
line the role of the Courier, the im
portance of it to the black com
munity and the main differences 
of this black paper from the other 
Pittsburgh papers.
The old Pittsburgh Courier was
founded in 1827 as an organ of 
protest. It is still playing the same 
basic role today. Whereas the gen
eral media tends toward the reac
tionary, conservative, white-racist viewpoint, the black paper re
flects the radical militant point of 
view. The Courier is owned by a 
black man and is a part of a larger 
chain of black papers, whose cen
tral office is located in Chicago. 
They have a 30 person staf,, and a 
circulation of some 35,000 people. 
But many whites now read the pa
per, having become disillusioned 
with the coverage given to news 
stories by the other Pittsburgh pa
pers.
According to Mr. Morris, by 
watching television, listening to 
the radio, and reading the gener
al news media, one would think 
not only were there no black prob
lems, but also that there were not 
even any blacks The gneral me
dia makes no attempt to expose or 
develop black thought; it gives the 
community no guidance or direc
tion. And the effect of the general 
media has been shown in the pro
gress made by the city of Pitts
burgh as a whole. Had the general 
(establishment) press done its 
job, the people would be greatly 
helped. The boycott at Sears and 
the issue of black principals in 
black schools are very important 
issues in Pittsburgh today, but un
less one reads something other 
than the general news media, one 
would have little or no knowledge 
of these news stories. When black 
news does appear in the general 
media, it is usually in the form of
what Mr. Morris called a safe 
tory, i.e., a story about a local 
black woman who succeeded in 
growing a 16 ft. potato plant, etc. 
The only other forms of news that 
ever succeed in making the papers 
are the front-page "hassles with 
the police.
The Pittsburgh Courier is a
black newspaper, with a definite 
audience in the black community. 
For what affects the black com
munity, affects black journalism. 
By focusing on the hopes and 
aspirations of the black commun
ity, as well as developing all phas
es of black thoughtsocial, econnomic, and political, the Courier 
at the same time exposes prob
lems that should concern all of us. 
Whereas before the paper focused 
on racial discrimination and vio
lence everywhere but Pittsburgh, 
they have, with the entrance of a 
new management, ushered in a 
new attitude. The problems of 
Pittsburgh housing, jobs, etc., 
have become their major con
cerns. In the past Spring Primary 
the Courier was the only newspa
per in the area to come out in sup
port of a candidate, and they have 
advopted what Mr. Morris called 
their mouthy-militant stand, 
their advertising has increased 
some 40 per cent. The Courier attemps to present a fair, rather 
than an objective picture by ex
pressing both sides of the story. 
As an example. Mr. Morris stated 
whereas the general news media 
would call a red chair red, the
Cookie Sale
Come treat your tastebuds to 
some delicious homemade cookies 
baked by Phi Signa Upsilons love
ly members, on Friday, Feb. 13, 
in Baker Hall from 11:30 a.m. to 
1:30 p.m. Sorry we couldnt have 
the sale on St. Valentines Day like 
we usually do, however, the pro
ceeds will still go to the Heart 
Fund. Any girls interested in serv
ice or who have worthwhile ideas 
for projects are invited to talk 
them over with the Phi Sigs.
121 University Place 682-3731
Ba*ement of the Physician* Building
OPEN: Monday-Friday, 9:00-5:00
jtr? Vaeto q7m
TERM PAPERS ^ MANUSCRIPTS
THESESy/NOTEBOOKS
XEROX
V0FTUL N0 .g1U g NTllUSUKVU$
(Department Charge Accounts 
and Research Grants WELCOME)
black newsppaer would expose the 
many different shades within that 
single red.
This is not a paper that advo
cates violence, but simply one 
that is playing the same game 
that the white man is playing. 
Were gonna rock the boat and 
when we get tired of rocking it 
were gonna sink it. A paper like 
this is of vital importance to an 
aware communitv.
CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITY 
BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES 
BIOTECHNOLOGY SEMINAR
PRESENTSJERRY McGINNIS
BIOMEDICAL ENGINEER 
ALLEGHENY GENERAL HOSPITAL
"Biotechnological Aspects 
of Modem Medicine"
Dot*:
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1970 
Time; 11:30 
Place:
BREED HALL, MMCC 103
Coffee will be served at 11:00, in the 
Lang Seminar Room, MMCC 115.
Tartans Lose
FxaecheydsG :ra, Bi7d CAN
CMU went into a press late 
in the game but Denison cash
ed in on eight free throws with
out a miss in the stretch drive 
to assure the victory.
Sloan scored 19 for Denison, 
while the Tech attack was pac
ed by Grazzinis 17 points. The 
visitors held the rebounding ad
vantage 47-37.
The Tartan record is now 2- 
11 with nine games remaining. 
Tomorrow the team travels to 
Allegheny and will have a week 
off until returning to Skibo gym 
for a game with Marietta on 
Wednesday, Feb. 18 at 8:15.
rugs
l0S JULL$
Over 1000 New 9x12's 
*15, *20, *29, *39, *49
6x9's, 12*12', 12xl5's, 12xl8's, Etc.
CHASE'S
5432 WALNUT STREET 
SHADYSIDE
10 a.m. - 9 p.m. (Saturday, 5 p.m.) 
621-1025
$20 REWARDMARTHA'S VINEYARDFOR BRIEFCASESummer 1970LOST IN BOOKSTOREStudent EMPLOYMENT
Contains Valuable Data forOPPORTUNITIES.
Research ProjectHundreds of jobs! Detailed descriptions including restaurants,
CONTACT:hotels, shops. SEND $2.00.
DANIEL CHAO - CMU BOX 200APPLIED RESEARCH ASSOC.,
ORDept. 51, P.O. Box 3903,
DR. HILLIER - GSIA EX. 493New Haven, Conn. 06525
NEWYORK TO LONDON 
SUMMER VACATION TRIPS 
Round Trip  $169
Now Filling  Small Deposit and 
Payments  Send for Free Details 
Student Globe Roomer
Box 6575, Hollywood, Fla. 33021
NIXONON STAGE! 
IN PERSON!
EV&W3N j TCKTS TO S 'MOORE A 6000MAN CHARLIE SftOdN
BOX
OfftGE
ARTHUR WHiraAW ART GfNf PfKSSfW
YOU'RE A 6009 MAN 
CHAftUE WWH
lmeKSis lPuberP mtSKe
50% Discount
(With Student I.D.)
GOOD ALL PERFORMANCES
NOW THRU FEBRUARY 22
eherSrFl Puelbid vyTa liPutbid lEo- mCnC
niPSreelE febCB M mCnCgliPCB MEo- mCnCgNurCB o mCnC
Would You Like To Become A Minister?
ORDINATION is without question and for life. LEGAL in all 
50 states and most foreign countries. Perform legal mar
riages, ordinations, and funerals. Receive discounts on some 
fares. Over 265,000 ministers have already been ordained. 
Ministers credentials and license sent; an ordainment certifi
cate for framing and an ID card for your billfold. We need 
your help to cover mailing, handling, and administration 
costs. Your generous-contribution is appreciated.
ENCLOSE A FREE WILL OFFERING 
Write to: UNIVERSAL LIFE CHURCH 
BOX 8071 
FT. LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA 33314
