TARTAN
February 6, 1979_________Volume 79, Number 20_________Carnegie-Mellon University_________Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Students Injured 
In Snowball Battles
The snow storms in the last two weeks have left a beautiful white, icey atmosphere on campus, but 
snowball fights and general snow-reljted rowdiness have resulted in two serious injuries.
Dillon Answers Complaints
At least two CMU students have been 
hospitalized in recent weeks with serious 
eye injuries that have resulted from gazorching and snowball battles on campus. 
Other less serious injuries have also been 
reported as students respond to the heavy 
snows by participation in a number of 
snow-related activities.
During one snowball battle, a student 
who was on the roof of Morewood Gardens 
B-Tower was allegedly struck in the eye 
with a wet wad of toilet tissue gazorched 
from one of the windows or the roof of ETower. The injury was described as 
serious by Dean of Student Affairs 
Earle Swank, and there was some specula
tion about whether the person would re
gain sight in the injured eye. The student 
was reportedly released from the hospital 
late last week with his full sight expected 
to return.
Another accident was also described as 
serious, as a student spent time in the hosFour Special Interest Units for 8 stu
dents each will be available in the new Mar
garet Morrison Street Apartments. Stu
dents who are interested in submitting a 
proposal for a Special Interest House 
should pick up a list of guidelines and an 
application from the Housing Office.
The Application deadline is February
Rick Hook, Joan Lasky and Tim Nissen (left 
to right) study a model of downtown Pittsburgh.
Chairmen Named
Gary Moshier and Judy May have been 
named as Chairpersons for the 1979 Fresh
man Weekend. Moshier, a fourth year ar
chitect, and May, a junior mechanical engi
neering major, are both veteran counselors 
of past Weekends, and both held staff posi
tions at last year's weekend.
Committee chairmen named, include; 
Jamie Burnett, technical committee; Bill 
McKnight, athletic activities; John Alex
ander and Jane Giamporcaro, social acti
vities; Donna Griffin, programming; and 
Joyce Brandon, publicity and arrange
ments.
Counselor applications for Freshman 
Weekend are now available at the Donner, 
Skibo and Morewood Desks, and in Dean 
Swank's office (206 Warner Hall). The 
Weekend is set for September 1,2, and 3.
A Freshman Weekend Reunion, for any
one who has ever been a counselor or 
camper, is set for Friday night. March 2, in 
he Skibo Ballroom.
pital with a tear in the retina of his eye.
He was reportedly hit with a snowball. The 
injury will require minor surgery if he is to 
retain the sight in that eye.
In response to the outbreaks of injuries 
resulting from the snowball and gazorching 
incidents, Dean Swank commented that 
Security is stepping up procedures to curb 
such incidents. The Dean attended a 
recent staff meeting where the banning of 
gazorches on campus was discussed, includ
ing their use in such formal programs as 
Freshman camp and Spring Carnival.
There is some consternation among University authorities concerning the increased | 
use of wet paper wads, ice-packed snowballs, and other articles with gazorches and 5 
the students' apparent lack of consider- tc 
ation for the risks and dangers involved -o 
with such use. Students caught using f 
gazorches or threatening the health of the - 
campus community in any other way may 
be prosecuted and punished.
16, 1979. A committee of SDC members, 
Residence Life and Housing Officers will 
review all proposals and announce the 
Special Interest Units prior to Room Re
tention on March 14, 1979.
Bill Dillon, Director of Auxiliary Servi
ces, will describe the new units and show 
slides tonight at 8:30 PM in the Hamerschlag Lounge. Interested students should 
attend.
These units are being offered to special 
interest groups to expand the life-style op
tions available on campus. Any group that 
applies should have enough commitment 
to their stated interest to assure they can 
keep the unit fully occupied. Some exam
ples might be a Language House, Intercultural House, or Departmental Houses. For 
further information contact the Housing 
Office or Residence Life Office.
The proposed rate for the Special Inter
est Houses is $1,440 per student per aca
demic year.
by Brian Byrnes
Residents of Morewood, Mudge and the 
fraternities were left in the dark Thursday 
night by a blackout.
A Duquesne Light spokesman said the 
feeder cables from the Schenley sub-station 
failed at about 9:00 PM. Power was restor
ed temporarily for a few minutes, but at 
9:15 the lights remained out until 11:00.
The cables are old and they fail fre
quently. the spokesman said. The whole 
syslem will sooner or later be replaced.
A co-e<l vnas caught in an elevator in 
Morev*oul B-tower when the blackout oc
curred. She was freed by Security and 
maintenance who started the elevator's 
emergency generator.
The first floor lounge of Morewood was 
kept lit by a newly installed generator. In 
the future, all of Morewood would have 
emergency lighting.
The generator in Mudge came on also, 
but within 45 minutes it overheated. The 
basement that the generator is in is not 
properly ventilated, and a gasket on the 
manifold leaked, filling the room with
by Scott Sibley
Bill Dillon, Director of Auxiliary Ser
vices, met with students in an open lunch
time forum set up by Campus Program 
Planning. He answered a variety of ques
tions from students and discussed the new 
dorm and dorm policies.
Students from Donner complained 
about the arrival of the trash truck at 
early hours, about 2:00 AM. Dillon said 
that the contract with the trash company 
specifies the hours that they may come to 
pick up the trash. This problem was 
straightened out once before, but apparent
ly they have a new truck driver. He ex
pected to have it corrected by the end of 
this week.
Dillon spoke extensively on the prob
lems of Shirley Apartments. He stated that 
the main problem is that they are leasing 
the building and that the owners would 
love to have us drop the lease." The Uni
versity does not have any money to invest 
in a building which, most likely, they will 
not use after this semester. They will be 
making an inspection tour with the owners 
and requesting many maintenance items.
An RA from Morewood asked about the 
power locks on the lobby of Morewood
smoke.
Physical Plant Director Cushing Phillips 
said the generator "can't be run for any exGardens. These locks would only open 
when the fire alarm is activated. Before 
these can be installed, Dillon said, the fire 
alarms must be connected between Towers. 
The administration is working on this.
In response to the lack of bulletin board 
space in the dorms, Dillon stated that it 
was "an honest mix-up." He will check in
to this and expects some activity in that 
direction within two weeks. He also stated 
that the sections of walls which are covered 
with carpet "are intended to tape thingsIfto.
The locks for all rooms in Mudge will be 
changed beginning this week. The feeling is 
that there are a number of people with 
keys that should not have them. The feasi
bility of a door monitor is being studied, 
but it depends on the willingness of the res
idents to modify their travel routes to use 
the one main door.
A student complained about the cfoor to 
Scobell, which always seems to be broken. 
The University plans to totally replace that 
and many other entrances this summer. 
The students are quite tough on the door, 
and Dillon would be open to any sugges
tions.
continued on page 7
into the feasibility of making the generator 
water-cooled or replacing the unit. The 
cost of improving the generator would be
tended period." Physical Plant is looking at least $10,000.
Will babies be born in nine months ? Do people really have more fun in the dark ? During last 
Thursday's blackout in Morewood Gardens, Mudge and the frats, many students gathered together 
to drink, sing, talk and even shower. (Yes, TARTAN photographers caught a Morewood E-tower 
resident and his girl showering by candlelight). Above, students pose for a black-out picture with 
their friends. The lights came on at 11,00 p.m., but in many cases, the parties continued.
Special Housing Available
Darkness on the Edge of Forbes Av

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN
Consistency 
and the Senate
The Constitution of the Student Government of Carnegie 
Mellon (Article IV, Section 3-F) states, The Senate shall 
have the power to give and take away recognition of student 
organizations."
Article III, Sections 6A and 6B concerning duties af the 
Rules Committee, state that the committee shall "7) recog
nize student organizations within the guidelines set forth by 
Student Senate in the By-Laws and 2) conduct annual 
reviews of the recognized organizations to see if such are 
within the bounds of the Constitution and By-Laws of the 
Student Government.
The Fall '78 Rules Committee chaired by Michael Inners, 
conducted the 'annual survey for the first time in three 
years.
The survey was ordered for the purpose of updating the 
Senate files on recognized organizations according to Inners. 
It asked for essential information such as an organization's 
statement of purpose and set of operating rules, including 
membership qualifications.
The TARTAN believes that the survey is a good idea. 
However, Senate should be consistent in applying the ByLaws. That is, a survey should be required each year, of 
every organization. For the past three years, the survey was 
ignored by Senate and many of the organizations.
This year organizations such as the Kiltie Band, Sigma 
Alpha Epsilon fraternity, and the Society of Automotive 
Engineers, which didnt file by the extended deadline of 
December 12 are currently not recognized by Senate. Each 
organization actively participates in Spring Carnival, the 
Fall sports season, or activities that stimulate intellectual 
interaction. As long as Senate is inconsistent about conduct
ing its annual survey, why should these organizations be 
banned from participating in Spring Carnival, activities fee 
funds that they should have the use of, or use of 
Student A ctivities facilities?
Scott Miller, Chairperson of Senate, reasons that "Senate 
becomes more effective with the use of the survey. The 
supported or funded organizations are monitored more 
closely and therefore our Activities fee has a better chance of 
being allocated properly and fairly. For example, through 
the survey it was discovered that the Karate Club, a Senate 
supported organization, had many members who were not 
CMU students. "The violation was corrected and the dub 
was reinstated,  Inners said.
It is obvious that the survey is needed.
The major problems with the survey are its length(6 
pages) and its applicability. A funded organization has more 
detailed information to disclose than a service organization. 
The exact information that is required should be made ex
plicit by the Rules Committee to the organization officers. 
Should a social organization have to disclose to Senate its 
source of funds in order to have the use of Student Activi
ties facilities or participate in Spring Carnival activities? 
It is dear that some of these organizations which did not 
file were puzzled by the length of the survey and what 
questions in particular applied to their type of organization.
At an institution where "management is the name of the 
game,  cooperation and communication between the Stu
dent Government and those it represents is not a difficult 
thing to achieve. Senate has the power to recognize or not 
to recognize but also has the primary goal of serving the 
representative needs of the student body of Carnegie-Mellon 
University. 
nn annual survey consistently and fairly conducted by 
the Rules committee aids in attaining that goal. If properly 
implemented, the survey will make for a more efficient Sen
ate. Student organizations should fully cooperate with the 
body that represents them by filing the petition by the spec
ified deadline.
We are suggesting that a consistent policy be followed by 
Senate, and that organizations strictly ablide by the rules 
once they are made dear. In order to remain independent 
and powerful, both the Student Senate and those it repre
sents must cooperate.
Jean Pellegrini 
Managing Editor
. . . my pm+" presclv Myrtfh toe-'
yv\CLsVts up' o\-
^AxK.d evrf" Wodty L I
hovy caw , 
SK/dc*'"!' Scatti 
ceJkxSe, fo
us 1 <
Letters
Senate Recommendations
Editors Note: The following lett
er was sent to Dr. Schatz by Scott 
Miller, Student Senate Chairperson.
At your request, Student 
Senate is providing you with input 
to the proposed calendar for the 
next three years. After consider
able debate and a rough poll of 
the student body, Student Senate 
passed the following resolution 
unanimously at its meeting on 
January 23, 1979.
"Be it resolved that Student 
Senate approve the proposed 
three year calendar with the 
following alterations:
A. The Half-day at Home
coming be removed and utilized 
to separate enrollment day and 
the first day of classes.
B. The Enrollment Day and the 
first day of classes be separated 
in the spring semester and the day 
be absorbed into the schedule 
with the same alternative as 
above.
C. If the University will not 
separate these days all University 
and departmental offices should 
be opened and staffed and 
University stores be opened and 
operating before classes are sched
uled to begin (i.e. Sundays and 
Labor Day) to facilitate purchasi
ng of books and materials.
D. Classes end on Thursday of 
the last week of classes with Fri
day designated as a reading day.
E. Only in the event that 
enrollment day and the first day 
of classes are not separated that 
no less than eleven consecutive 
weekdays including national holi
days transpire between the last 
day of finals and the first day of 
classes of the following semester. 
Senate will reserve approval on 
the 1981-82 calendar and 
continue to collect data for its 
modification."
1 hope that the resolution does 
not approve or disapprove of the 
1981-82 calendar as we,are still 
collecting data for that particular
year. If you have any questions 
about this resolution or if you 
would like to see our survey 
results, please feet free to contact 
me.
Scott A. Miller 
Chairperson 
Student Senate
Thanks, We Needed That!
Editor:
Just a note to tell you how 
very much I have enjoyed the First 
two copies of The Tartan (now 
being mailed to all trustees). I par
ticularly enjoyed your editorial 
based on your visit to our January 
Trustees meeting . . . really excell
ent!
I feel that not only is the Tar
tan extremely interesting and en
joyable,but it allows our Trustees 
to stay a little closer to our stu
dents. You and your staff are to 
be congratulated on this excellent 
publication.
A. De Loach Martin, Jr.
Trustee 
Dallas, Texas
TARTAN
Volume 79February 6, 1979Number 20
Editor-in-Chief:Jeff Zaslow
Managing Editors:Jean Pellegrini
V. R. V. Ramanan
Business ManagerStephanie Waite
News Editor:Brian Byrnes
Features Editor:Mory Brenner
FOLIO Editor:K. A. Yaksich
Entertainment Editor.Joan Livitski
Sports Editors:Howard Turner
Perry Colosimo
Photography Editor:Skip Brazelton
\ Production Managers:Neil Adler
John Qualley
Art Director:Dianne Lauble
Assistant News and Features Editor:Leslie Weiser
Assistant News Editor: 
Assistant Features Editor:
Andrew Ragan 
Susan Borg
Copyright 1979 by the Carnegie-Mellon University TARTAN. The Editonal Board reserves the right to edit or 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication f unded in part by the Student Govern
ment of Carnegie-Mellon University. Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices Skibo 50; (412) 578- 
2111 or 2112. Business Offices Skibo 52. (412) 578- 2111
ALL RIGHTS RESER'/rO
Illustration by Oianne Lauble

---------------------------------------------------

more Letters
Satisficing No More
Editor:
Inspired by Herb Simon, I will 
be withdrawing from CarnegieMellon at the end of this semester. 
Dr. Simon has taught me some
thing very important about my
self; about my view of the world 
and all the women in it. I am a 
male junior with good grades and 
a good head on my shoulders, and 
soon Ill be leaving CMU in search 
of The Perfect Girl!
Shes out there. In some small 
town or large city, shes smiling 
or winking or teasing the locals 
Im going to find her. Im going to 
look under every rock. Ill visit 
every hole in the wall and every 
palace. I only have one life, and 
Ive found my mission. The Lord 
says seek and ye shall find and 
Im off to do it.
Actually, Im out to disprove 
Dr. Simons theory of satisficing. 
Satisficing is when people settle 
for satisfactory goals and reason
able profits because they dont 
have the time or sense of adven
ture to check out all the thou
sands of possibilities and alterna
tives involved. Well, Ive been sat
isficing for three years here at 
CMU, and my mind is made up. 
Im off.
Dont get me wrong. Ive fallen 
in love many times here at CMU. 
Ive been infatuated, Ive been 
moved. . .Ive cried in the laps of 
several CMU co-eds. Theyre all 
sweet. Many are beautiful. But 
Ive been satisficing. Settling for 
whats available. The perfect girl 
the perfect girl for me~is out 
there somewhere and I know I 
wont be at peace with myself un
til I find her.
Ill miss CMU. Theres a Music 
major, a designer, a mechanical 
Engineeress, a mathematician, an 
artist, an English major...Ill be 
leaving these girls, but I know I 
must. Each one of these girls has a 
flawhas a touch of her being 
that doesnt exactly click with all 
that is me. Of course everyone is 
flawed. I realize that. But the per
fect Girl will have no flaws in my 
eyes. And she will have to love 
and understand me, because Ill 
have traveled such a long way to 
find her.
So, come May, Ill be on my 
journey. I cant remain satisficing 
here at CMU...Ive got to check 
out every option. I plan to be in 
touch with the National Geo
graphic people. Maybe they can 
film me for a documentary to be 
called, naturally, The Search For 
The Perfect Girl. I also plan to 
keep a diary, which I hope to sell 
in installments to syndicated 
newspapers nationwide. Perhaps 
Ill even send copies to the 
TARTANIm sure many people 
on campus would like to know of 
my exploits.
In all of recorded history, I 
dont think theres ever been a 
man who left the world as he 
knew it to search for the perfect 
girl. Most men have settled for the 
local girls. The girl across the 
room in the high school health 
class, the girl in the soda shop, the 
girl who lived next door, the girl 
who was there when the war was 
over. Ah, but Ill be stopping at 
nothing. In fact, 1 might even 
leave the free world to search in 
communist countries!
There are a billion girls out 
there...one of them is right for 
me. I dont want to die without 
finding her. I think I can do it, Dr. 
Simon, because Im tough and Im 
not yet an executive. Money is no 
object, so economics is of little 
concern to me. (When I run out of 
money, Ill just continue my 
search in cities down south where 
the cost of living is lower.)
I am asking for my name to be 
withheld, but I promise to allow 
the TARTAN to print my name in 
their last issue before I leave. I 
dont want to release my name 
yet, because theres a special place 
in my heart for all the women 
mentioned above, and I dont 
want to hurt them until I can do 
it in person. I mean, I want to be 
there to hold their hands when 
they find out all about my deci
sion.
Ive got all that love bottled up 
inside me. Im a romantic unafraid 
to cry, and willing to kiss on the 
first date. I hope my adventure 
will prove to be all things to me 
and to the girl I find who will 
spend eternity with me. I am im
patiently waiting for my struggle.
In Search of the Perfect Girl,
I am,
Name withheld upon request 
Prayer Answered 
Editor:
I have been reviewing the prob
lems which exist at the Shirley 
Apartments and agree that even 
allowing for the Universitys diffi
culties (which were described in 
an earlier article this year) that 
there is a great deal more we 
should be doing in these units. 
Actions are in progress to correct 
many of the irritations which 
were described.
Bill Dillon 
Director Of Auxiliary Services
A Jab at Conservatives 
Editor:
David Paul Heddies editorial in 
VIEWS (Tartan 1/30/79) was the 
most overtly selfish I have ever 
seen in the Tartan. By what 
right, asks Heddle, does the 
government force me to pay wo
men equally ?
This idea is typical of the right 
wing attitude towards freedom. 
Freedom to a conservative is 
the freedom to hurt other people: 
The freedom to discriminate, to 
segregate, bear arms, drive over 55 
mph, overcharge consumers, 
pollute, build unsafe products no 
matter what the consequences, 
and of course, make piles of 
money without paying taxes on it. 
In short, conservatives want the 
freedom to be irresponsible.
God forbid that someone 
should ask for the freedom to 
smoke pot, love someone of the 
same sex,or use contraceptives 
without a prescription (this is 
illegal in many states). These 
freedoms hurt no one, so 
conservatives oppose them.
I thank God that, as Heddle 
admits, he would receive fewer 
than ten votes if he ran for 
President. A Heddle Presidency 
would be the worst and most 
repressive the nation has ever 
seen.
Barton Leveson 
Physics Student (Freshman)
Just A Joke Fella 
Editor:
I am writing in reply to Mr. 
Rosenblums letter in the Jan. 30 
issue concerning the ZBT mixer 
poster. Although I am a Brother 
of ZBT, this letter reflects my be
liefs as a person who is proud of 
his Polish descent. I am secure 
enough in this pride to take such 
posters in the humor in which 
they were intended. I am also will
ing to give members of the cam
pus community credit for enough 
intelligence to do the same. I be
lieve that only an extremely para
noid person could take such an 
obviously exaggerrated cartoon as 
a personal or ethnic insult. Per
haps if Mr. Rosenblum was more 
willing to draw attention to real 
examples of racism and prejud
ice and not try to create problems 
where none exist, we would all be 
better off.
Sincerely, 
David Dorko 
A Polish Brother of ZBT
Int'l Poetry Forum Miffed 
Editor:
To: Ms. Joan Livitski, Entertain
ment Editor
In as much as you addressed 
your review to my personal atten
tion, I assume you did so in order 
to provoke some kind of response.
I do have a response and it is 
based not on a disagreement in 
taste but a misrepresentation of 
fact. You say several times in your 
review that the International Po
etry Forum may be unwittingly 
misleading people regarding con
temporary poetry. Let me say to 
you straight that the Internation
al Poetry Forum is exactly what it 
says it is. It is not and has never 
claimed to be a forum for con
temporary poets, local or other
wise. It is a forum for all that is 
poetic in conception, and this 
transcends mere verse and neces
sarily includes all forms of poetic 
expression, music included. Here 
at the Poetry Forum I have always 
presented programs with this in 
mind. I have never misrepresented 
this to the public and never intend 
to.
Concerning your reference of 
the recent performance at Camegie-Mellon University, I can only 
applaud what Gerry Costanzo is 
doing there. I have told him as 
much. I support any activity that 
gives poets a chance to be heard. 
If you think that it is a shame that 
we do not present a steady diet of 
contemporary poets, then it will 
have to remain a shame, but every 
season here I deliberately weight 
the program in favor of contem
porary poets simply because I 
think it is important.
Finally, 1 received a number of 
complaints from people in the 
Lecture Hall about the photo
graphs that someone is taking dur
ing the performance. 1 assume 
from having seen photographs ac
companying your review that you 
or one of your associates are tak
ing such pictures. I would appreci
ate it if you would discontinue 
this.
Cordially, 
Samuel Hazo 
Director
International Poetry Forum
Dear Dr. Hazo:
As your letter of December 15 
expressed concern of the misrepresenteation of facts  in my arti
cle, I felt it necessary to respond. 
Your assumption that I intended 
to provoke some kind of re
sponse is not valid. My ques
tion was stated in an obviously 
rhetorical manner and in no way 
demanded recognition on your 
part.
When I inquired about review 
tickets at the onset of the season, 
a member of your staff requested 
that the Forum be placed on our 
mailing list. The TARTAN has 
sent copies of the paper to your 
office routinely and the issue in 
question was not our first men
tion of activities at the Forum. If 
any additional copies of this arti
cle were sent to you, not only was 
this not at my request, but I 
was in no way aware of the ac
tion.
My main concern with your 
letter deals with the issue of tak
ing photographs at the Forum. I 
resent the implication that I had 
acted in disaccordance with any 
regulations. I never use a flash or 
leave my seat for any pictures tak
en during performances. More im
portantly, perhaps, than this mat
ter of common courtesty, is the 
fact that I had requested and re
ceived permission from your staff 
before taking any photographs. It 
appears to be the lack of com
munication within the Forum it
self that has led to this misunder
standing. If it is not the general 
policy that picture-taking be per
mitted, the Forum should make a 
public announcement to that ef
fect.
Since you contend no "disa
greement in taste," I feel I need 
only say that I continue to stand 
on the statements in my article 
and do not feel that there has 
been any misrepresentation of 
fact on my part. The main dis
pute seems to stem from the in
terpretation rather than the rep
resentation of facts. In light of 
this, I can only ponder (rhetorical
ly) as to whether the name and in
tent of the Forum arent, in fact, 
ambiguous.
Very truly yours, 
Joan Livitski 
Entertainment Editor
Objective Criticism Please 
Editor:
Having read David Radacks re
view of the January 19 Rush con
cert, this writer feels compelled to 
respond to that article, as it is felt 
that the review is misleading and 
overly subjective. I attended and 
enjoyed the Rush performance, 
but the concert was not without 
its pitfalls. Mr. Radack fails to 
mention any of the negative 
points, while leading the readers 
on in other instances; the follow
ing list should serve to exemplify 
this writers feelings:
1) While The Trees was receiv
ed well, its execution was below 
par from a musical standpoint. 
Neil Peart, for the most part a 
good musician, even had trouble 
with a series of seven-stroke rolls 
(a fundamental percussive rudi
ment) on the wood-blocks. This 
musicianship was a far cry from 
being flawlessly dynamic.
2) Geddy Lee got a Moog for
Christmas, and he should be 
commended for his efforts toward 
musical diversification. On the 
whole, however, his synthesizer 
work has proven to be stagnant 
and uninventive thus far, leaving 
much room for improvement.
3) If Mr. Radack really feels 
that a movie coupled with two or 
three magnesium flares constitutes 
a most visual experience, then 
he has never attended a concert 
with multiple laser imagery, in ad
dition to the above effects (inci
dentally, there were no lasers at 
all at this concert).
4) Unfortunately, the concert 
was a bit on the commercial side: 
many less popular songs from the 
groups most recent album were 
given extensive treatment, while 
some of the older classics, such 
as Fly By Night, were ignored 
completely.
There are other points to be 
made, not all of which are nega
tive. This writers main objections 
stem not only from this review, 
but from past rock concert re
views in the TARTAN as well. 
Subjective terms such as power 
chords convey little to the reader 
who has missed a given concert 
performance; in the future, it 
would be appreciated if rock re
views could take the form of more 
objective critiques.
Brian H. Berkeley 
CIT-Grad
Glug... Glug... Glug...
Editor:
This writer has been a good 
boy and has played by the Univer
sitys rules for the past four years, 
living in campus housing. One mi
ght expect that such loyalty, in 
addition to the luxury apartment 
rental rates, might at the very lea
st allow for a roof over our heads.
Three phone calls, four person
al visits and one conference with 
Gerry Dalton have failed thus far 
to achieve this modicum,- any vis
itor to the apartment in E-tower 
of Morewood Gardens is quickly 
confronted by salt stains in the 
room which have come about via 
a steady drip-drip through the cei
ling. To say nothing of the prope
rty damage which I have suffered 
through the maintenance depart
ments wanton negligence, the sc
hool itself will, in the long run, be 
forced to pay for more extensive 
damage to its own property.
I do not pay the same rent as 
an off-campus friend (who, I mig
ht add, lives in a veritable palace 
for his $265 a month) to be forc
ed to listen every night to the ext
remely irritating and repetitious 
plop, as each falling drop reminds 
me of the housing offices unwill
ingness or inability to perform a 
simple task. (Is the Housing Office 
bringing back the good old water 
torture?)
Drowning in Morewood 
Woe be Today's Freshman 
Editor:
It is time somebody pointed 
out the atrocious study habits of 
the freshmen at our school. Never, 
I repeat, never, do the freshmen 
study. I, a concerned senior ask 
them, Hey freshmen, I say, 
hey freshmen, why arent you 
studying? And what is my 
reply? Ohh, Happy Days is on, 
or Im playing backgammon.

---------------------------------------------------

more Letters
Tell Your Lover 
You Love Her 1
r (Or Him)!
ONE BUCK
For a 20 word smooch
OR FIVE CENTS PER WORD
To: 
The TARTAN 
Box 17 
Campus Mail 
By
ness to be felt. The things that Getting stoned does not bring 
make up my world start to speak me happiness or friends, nor does 
tor themselves instead of talking it give me answers or bring addiabout my effects on them. In the tional problems. Smoking Mariquietness of those moments come juana merely announces to me
readings from my enviroment. I 
am merely allowing myself the 
time and patience jto notice the 
things that shout for recognition 
long overdue.
This indulgence lowers my de
fences and allows me to exist in a 
more open, free-flowing conscious
ness. The current of my emotions 
runs wider and deeper and with a 
tranquility whose rhythm be
comes synonymous with my 
heart. In this state, profound 
revelations do arise and my ability to admit and accept my fail
ures is encouraged. The things I 
find frightening about life no 
longer bare their teeth in aggres
sion but stare at me in resolved 
strength. Most often in this condi
tion, I do find a smile on my face 
not out of haze, but out of 
clarity.
that the day and its influences are 
distinct from the time I allot for 
myself. In a way, it sounds the 
gong that begins the ritual of rest. 
Marijuana is not my key that will 
open the doors to peer acceptance 
or social status. It is a tool that I 
have discovered as exceptionally 
reliable and enjoyable in helping 
me to listen and understand the 
talk of my mind and of my heart.
ELM
The TARTAN welcomes lettersto-the-editor from the entire 
campus community. The letters 
should be signed and cannot be 
printed otherwise. Names will be 
withheld upon request. Mail let
ters to Box 17, campus mail, or 
drop them off at the offices of 
the TARTAN in Skibo.
Oh, it makes me sick, I mean my 
stomach twists and churns as if I 
had just returned from Skibo. I 
remember the good old days when 
my freshman roommate, Ron 
Parkovkovitz, was studying for a 
spelling quiz. He studied twenty 
hourS the day before the quiz, 
then took it and received a 100. 
Pretty good considering he was 
decapitated earlier that week in a 
physics lab. We were tough back 
then. None of this, We cant 
study were gonna drink beer, or 
Im nibbling at my chicks
kharma tonight. When I was a 
freshman we didnt even have 
chicks (we did frequent fraterni
ties, however, and the remnants of 
some of them still exist today). 
Yes, our freshmen are going 
downhill fast and our Alma Mater 
(stand) is suffering. Must we wait 
until our school is labelled Pitt 
before we act?
Isotropically,
Jerry LaSalle
Glory be Pot
Editor:
I have just finished reading an
other feeble attempt in under
standing the dope smoking culture 
and its mesmerizing aura of acceptibility. It seems to say that 
the drive to smoke is perpetuated 
by intense peer-pressure to gain 
entrance into the mystical club. 
Those who believe that the socia
bility of the drug is its main at
traction is assuredly oversimplify
ing the benifits. I should like to 
speak for the private and deeply 
personal attributes of smoking.
I have been smoking the grass 
for about seven years at a consis
tent pace, ranging from three 
times to once everyday. The ques
tion of sociability arises from the 
fact that I most often get high 
when I am alone as opposed to 
relying on the clubs persuasion 
to engage in my vice. In fact, 
whenever I find myself getting 
stoned with others it is deemed as 
a pleasant surprise. It is also sur
prising to me when I realize it is 
not the pressure of others that en
courages my habit but the lessen
ing of social pressure that rein
forces the same.
Smoking has become apart of 
my daily ritual of private relaxa
tion and habitation. Getting toast
ed, as I so privately labeled it, 
allows me to put aside the confu
sion I feel from the misunder
standing of societys constant 
chatter over the state of affairs. 
Once high, I can quiet the outside 
world and allow the conversations 
within my soul to emerge to a 
level of silent perception. At this 
level,, time becomes significantly 
important. Time may whiz by 
barely noticed as I spread myself 
around the campus, depositing 
little bits of my attention span in 
each of my interests; but getting 
high slows down that process and 
allows each moment to gain in 
relevance. The ticking of my clock 
becomes acutely more distinct 
and with care, I wait for a right---------------------------------------------------

The author of this piece asked for his name to be withheld. He entitled this, "Where 
Do We Go From Here?"VIEWS
As the writer of the piece 
entitled Innocence Shall Be No 
More, which appeared in the 
January 16 issue of the Tartan, 1 
feel a strong need to respond to 
the letters printed in the Tartan 
concerning my essay. I realized 
when I wrote the piece that I 
made some statements which 
most whites and some black 
people would prefer not to hear. 
The whole question of race is 
one that America would much 
rather not face honestly and 
squarely. To some, it is embar
rassing; to others, it is incon
venient, to still others, it is con
fusing. But for myself, and my 
fellow black Americans, to know 
it and tell it like it is and then 
act on that knowledge should 
be neither embarrassing nor incon
venient nor confusing. Anything 
less than clarity, honesty and 
forcefulness perpetuates the cen
turies of sliding over, dressing up, 
and soothing down the true 
feelings, hopes and demands of an 
oppressed black people. Mild 
demands and hypocritical smiles 
mislead white America into think
ing that all is fine and peaceful. 
They mislead white America into 
thinking that the path and pace 
chosen to deal with racial prob
lems are acceptable to masses 
of black Americans. It is better 
to speak forcefully and truth
fully as I have done and shall 
continue to do.
The responses printed in the 
Tartan (Jan. 23) are luxuries 
for people with time to spare, 
who feel no particular sense of 
urgency about the need to solve 
certain serious problems. Black 
people in America have no time to 
play nice polite parlor gamesespecially when the lives of their 
children are at stake. Some white 
Americans can afford to speak 
softly, tread lightly, employ the 
soft-sell and put-off (or is it 
put-down?). They own the so
ciety. As Dick Gregory put 
it; In her insane fear, America 
tells black folks to be nonvio
lent. White America owns all the 
guns, the tanks, makes all the 
napalm, builds all the missiles, 
owns all the nuclear vessels, has 
an Army and Navy, controls 
the FBI and CIA, the local police, 
the state police and the National
Guard. Yet white America can 
look at black folks, who do not 
manufacture one gun, and tell 
them to be nonviolent." For 
black people to adopt their 
method of relieving our oppres
sion is ludicrous. We blacks 
respond in our own way, on our 
own terms in a manner which 
fits our temperaments. The defini
tions of ourselves, the roles we 
pursue, the goals we seek are our 
responsibility.
It is not surprising that a few 
years of ambivalent and half
hearted effort, ignoring the real
ities and giving but lip service 
to the goals, has had limited 
success in undoing the work of 
350 years of such zealous, uni
fied, realistic, and untiring devo
tions to myth that black Amer
icans are inferior to white Amer
icans.
Now whites can find little 
use for an unskilled labor force 
and would prefer blacks to play 
a more productive role in the 
economy if for no other reason 
than to be self-supporting and 
less of a social problem. And most 
whites profess to seek (many do 
seek) a just and integrated society 
in which blacks may be not only 
productive and self-supporting but 
able to live lives of dignity, 
freedom, hope and genuine equal
ity. But in this reversal of white 
goals there has been no such 
consistency and unity, no such 
linking of public and private 
efforts, no such persistence or 
zeal.
And yet even liberals (those 
who responded to my article) 
are beginning already to weary 
of a task but tepidly half begun 
and to find reason to suggest 
that further white effort is un
necessary and unavailing, even 
unwise. Legal barriers have all 
been removed they point out. 
Not only have discriminatory 
laws been passed forbidding even 
private discrimination. Whatever 
the law can do, they say, to 
grant and protect full equality 
for blacks has been done. Here
after, it is the diligence and 
self-restraint of blacks that will 
determine their place in society 
and their rewards. From now on, 
they say, it is up to blacks to 
solve the rest of the race problem
by their own conduct.
For those white liberals who 
share this view I ask that they 
open their eyes and unlock their 
minds, for America is a nation 
which preaches integration but 
practices segregation.
The United States has caused 
us to be isolated in the most 
dilapidated and unhealthful sec
tions of all cities. The United 
States has evaded compliance to 
laws which are necessary for our 
childrens education. The United 
States has allowed election dis
tricts to be so gerrymandered 
that black people find the right 
to representation in the legis
latures almost impossible of at
tainment. The United States has 
kept in our ghettos in times of 
peace, standing armies of police, 
state troopers and National 
Guardsmen without the consent 
of our people. The United States 
has imposed taxes upon us with
out protecting our constitutional 
rights. The United States has 
taken my fellow Black Americans 
captive in its armies to bear arms 
against their black, brown, and 
yellow brothers to be execu
tioners of these friends and 
brethen, or to fall themselves 
by their hand.
National and local governments 
combat rather than support each 
other: national laws assert a right 
to vote; local officials exercise 
endless ingenuity to evade them. 
Public and private efforts conflict 
rather than unite: public law and 
policy demand equal access to 
public accomodations; many pri
vate owners skirt the edge of the 
law in discouraging black patron
age. Different agencies of the 
federal government conflict: equal 
access to all kinds of housing is 
official federal housing policy, 
yet the housing in ghettos with 
. an assumption of exclusive black 
occupancy and to subsidize the 
creation of all-white suburbs. 
Private institutions are ambivalent 
and divided. The highest levels 
of government pursue a schizoid 
policy. Today a government 
professedly devoted to the rights 
of blacks can drive a freeway 
through a ghetto area, thinking
of it only as a highway project 
without perceiving any impact on
black housing. It can adopt a 
variety of policies that have the 
composite result of substituting 
private automobiles for mass 
transit without thinking of the 
implications for black access to 
jobs. It can adopt tax concess
ions to spur investment in 
labor-saving machinery without 
counterveiling concessions for the 
employment of marginal labor 
without any awareness of rela
tion to black employment. I can, 
indeed, adopt the whole con
course of interrelated measures 
that sustains white suburbia with
out thinking of that as a program 
to create the two Americas 
feared by the Kerner Commis
sion.
The Brown decision of the 
fifties is hailed as a triumph, 
even though in many areas edu
cation is more segregated today 
than it was in 1954. They can 
feel content with the passage of 
open housing laws while continu
ing to live in all-white suburbs 
and to observe all-black ghettos. 
They can feel that equal-opportunity laws are the important 
thing, undisturbed that they have 
resulted only in token employ
ment of blacks in desirable 
occupation. When the criminal 
laws and police instructions make 
no distinction in terms between 
black and whites, we ignore the 
enormous gulf between the laws 
actual dealings with well-to-do 
whites and poor blacks. Winning 
their victories in the courts and 
in Congress, few white liberals 
look so condidly at the facts 
of racial inequality or are half 
so intent to change that reality 
as were all white racists to main
tain it.
So there you have it. The fact 
that whites now have little need 
to continue the exploitations of 
blacks as a subordinating labor 
force has not meant that they 
would welcome them as equals 
and associates. Far from it. 
Once the initial withdrawal from 
systematic subordination was far 
along, the strong thrust of white 
society has been to withdraw also 
from responsibility for or contact
FRESHMEN SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING MAJORS
Three-year AFROTC scholarships valued in ex
cess of $15,000 are now available to qualified 
CMU students. Applications are now being ac
cepted and you may apply without obligation.
In return tor this financial assistance the Air 
Force requires a minimum of four years service 
as an Air Force officer after graduation. This 
commitment is not incurred until you accept the 
scholarship next September.
ROTC
Why not join more than twenty-five other CMU 
students on ROTC scholarships. ROTC classes 
are taken at Pitt by cross-registration. These 
classes re small in size, presenting each student 
with the opportunity for participation. Subjects 
include the History of Air Power, Organization 
of the Air Force, Leadership and Management, 
and American Defense Policy.
Lt. Col Warren invites inquiries by phone or per
sonal visits. Our offices are located on the 29th 
fir of the Cathedral of Learning. Call today for 
an appointment, 624-6396.
with the black community; to 
move their residences out of the 
black-invaded central cities; to 
withdraw their children from 
schools attended by blacks; to 
dispense with the use of black 
servants; to build the new offices 
and factories in suburbs and in 
small towns away from black 
labor. Physical and psychological 
separation answered to the re
moval of legal segregation and 
discrimination and permitted the 
benign neglect. Even liberal 
whites wearied of well-doing and 
tacitly withdrew from the prob
lem, finding in foreign policy, 
population control, and ecology, 
opportunities to invest their 
moral energies without threat to 
their own privileged oppositions.
But this white policy is not 
going to work either. The cor
ruption bitterness and moral pol
lution which is eating away at 
the minds of whites and blacks 
alike prove that our American 
dream has become a nightmare. 
Our only hope for survival is to 
achieve a relation of true equal 
integration.
But to acheive this happy out
come would demand of whites 
a devotion of efforts over a long 
time, as singly-minded, as zealous, 
as intent as the efforts whites had 
long devoted to black subordina
tion. ft would demand, as had 
that earlier effort, a total union 
of public and private endeavorgovernemnt, church, school, press, 
and individuals working together, 
as eager now to unite as then to 
separate, as intent now to achieve 
equality and dignity as formerly 
to deny it, as determined now as 
then to reach its goals not only in 
the lawbooks but in the actual 
lives of blacks and whites.
Where do we go from here: 
Chaos or community?*' Segrega
tion or integration? This is the 
question that we as Americans, 
both black and white, must face 
with our eyes wide open. It would 
answer itself one way or another.
I for one am willing to make the 
neccessary effort to achieve a 
state of equality and dignity for 
all men, black and white. Are 
you?
Gateway to a greot way of life.
Billy Joel says* 
WRITE for the 
TARTAN!

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6-TARTAN-February 6, 1979
Senate Denies SAE Recognized Status
by Scott Sibley
At last week's Senate meeting, the main 
items of business were the status of Sigma 
Alpha Epsilon (SAE) and the library. 
Petitions were also accepted and students 
chosen to fill vacant Senate seats. Cherie 
Hodge was chosen to fill the CFA seat, and 
Ralph Sherman and Mary Schuchman were 
appointed to the H&SS seats. The neces
sary majority could not be reached for the 
CIT seat, so that election will be held at 
the next Senate meeting, tonight at 7:00
PM in the Wherrett Room.
A petition for recognized status was 
submitted by SAE. Dan Cordes pointed 
out that most of the organization survey 
questions were not answered. He stated 
that the number of blank spaces "shows 
complete disregard for Senate procedural 
matters." Jim Gladys, UFO President, 
pointed out that this was the first year 
that the fraternities were required to file 
the questionaire. Status was denied to 
SAE. Unless an organization is recognized
by Senate, it can not participate in campus 
activities, such as Spring Carnival. Dean 
Swank noted that this has nothing to do 
with SAE's charter or recognition by the 
University, but only the chapter's dealings 
with the Senate.
The Senate passed a resolution approv
ing plans for improving the library. Ruth 
Corrigan, Director of University Librar
ies, presented plans for a casual reading 
area in Hunt Library with a lounge type 
atmosphere. Gary Moshier urged that
"If you have complaints about the li
brary, take it to them.1' The only way that 
adjustments and corrections can be made is 
if the librarians know about the problems.
Last week, this column reported a sur
plus of $30,000. This figure was incor
rect. The surplus from the Activities Fees 
is currently about $3000. This money 
must be kept available for any allocations 
that might arise during the remainder of 
this semester.
Elections for Senate seats and for Stu
dent Government President will be held 
in March. Petitions will be available on 
February 13.
Expo 3 Class 
Explores CMU
The research reports of sixteen Exposi
tion III students are available in the refer
ence room of Hunt Library. The reports, 
all written last semester for Professor Rob
ert Gangewere's Expo III class, give indepth information on different aspects of 
the CMU community.
Almost all of the students in the 
course are third or fourth year English ma
jors and nearly all are planning on careers 
as professional or technical writers. Gradu
ate student Cable Neuhaus worked with the 
students in preparing their reports for pub
lication.
Some of the projects include: 
The Fine and Rare Book Rooms in Hunt 
Library: A Guide to the Collections / By 
Linda Kucan
Handling Common Landlord-Tenant Prob
lems: A Guide for the Camegie-Mellon Un
iversity Student / By Linda Deak 
The Concept of Disaster Preparedness and 
Its Application in the City of Pittsburgh / 
By Laurie Hollick
A Guide to Para-professional Counseling in 
Pittsburgh's Colleges and Universities / By 
Roksana Korchynsky
The Carnegie-Mellon University Student 
Activities Fee: Where Does It Go? How 
Does It Get There? / By Diane Farruggia 
Internship Opportunities for Carnegie-Mel
lon Undergraduates / By Tracy Appleby 
Physical Education at Camegie-Mellon Un
iversity as Viewed by College Administra
tors, Physical Education Faculty, and Stu
dents / By Susan Bronder 
Sources of an Undergraduate English De
gree in Pittsburgh and Its Uses / By Beverly 
Bird
Technical Writing Careers at the Instru
ment Society of America / By Vivian Hun
ter
Activities and Programs Available to the 
Carnegie-Mellon University Campus Com
munity through Local Religious Organiza
tions / By Virginia Herrod
Baby Cools Frat
There is no Animal House' behavior at 
the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity at Iowa 
State U. since' the new housemother 
moved in. Shes a young single mother 
with a 17-month-old daughter. The young
ster has eighty-five handy babysitters and 
the SAE brothers say the little girl pro
vides heart-warming comic relief that 
beats John Belushi and company.
We're talking to you because GenRad is committed to recruiting 
the best engineering personnel available to continue our international reputation for quality and state-of-the-art products. After we've got the best we try to keep them interested by expanding their horizons and our reputation.
One of the ways in which we've maintained our world leadership in automatic test equipment, electronic instruments and acoustic/vibration measurement 
instruments is through the "project-team concept." Used effectively for product development, this concept allows us to mix the
current knowledge and enthusiasm 
of the recent graduate with the development knowledge of our more experienced staff members. Everyone benefits from this arrangement.
Work better alone? Then perhaps our "preliminary investigation" approach is right for you. Based upon your experience you could be assigned to work with a senior engineer 
in preliminary product investigation.
If you plan to 
continue your education  We're behind you all the way. Under our tuition program you'll be eligible 
immediately for 100% reimbursement.
We're interested in talking to:BSEE, MSEE candidates, Computer Science majors with Logic Design back
ground for positions in Software Development, Hardware Design, Hardware/Software Design, Microprocessing Design.
We are also interested in talking to:Applications Engineers, Mini-computer 
Programmers and Sales Engineers.
Some companies talk about commitments  instead we just do it. The next step is up to you.A GenRad representative will be on campus March 6, 1979, please make an appointment through your placement office. Or call Pat Perillo 
directly, (617) 646-7400, Ext. 332. GenRad, Inc., 300 Baker Avenue, Concord, Massachusetts 01742
GenRad
An equal opportunity employer M/F

---------------------------------------------------

February 6, 1979-TARTAN-Page 7
Sue Your Bad Roommate
If a UCLA student doesnt do his fair 
share of dirty dishes, his roommate might 
take him to court.
Legally binding roommate contracts, 
now available for off-campus roommates at 
the residential life office, are aimed, 
however, at avoiding such domestic prob
lems. And the assistant dean says the con
tracts seem to be great preventive med
icine.
The contract spells out such things as 
how appliances and furniture are to be 
shared, how rent, deposits and other
expenses will be paid, and what obligations 
each roommate has to the other. Addi
tional terms often listed include nonsmok
ing clauses, cleanliness standards, policies 
on partying and/or drug use, division of 
such household tasks as cooking, grocery 
shopping and taking the garbage out, and 
the acceptability of various types of pets.
Th$ assistant dean says even the process 
of drawing up the contract is beneficial 
to would-be roommates. It encourages the 
discussion of issues before conflicts have 
time to grow, she says.
Housing Rates Released
Proposed 1979-80 Housing Rates
Description ofAcademic YearFall SemesterSpring Sem
AccommodationRateRateRate
Dormitory Rooms
Budget Quad$ 845.00$ 490.00$ 355.00
T riple950.00550.00400.00
Double1,070.00620.00450.00
Single1,230.00715.00515.00
Standard Quad930.00540.00390.00
T riple1,035.00600.00435.00
Double1,150.00670.00480.00
Single1,310.00760.00550.00
Prime Quad1,010.00585.00425.00
Triple1,120.00650.00470.00
Double1,230.00715.00515.00
Single1,395.00810.00585.00
Apartments
Efficiency-2 occupants1,445.00,840.00605.00
1 Bedroom-2 occupants1,540.00895.00645.00
1 Bedroom-3 occupants1,335.00775.00560.00
1 Bedroom-4 occupants1,115.00645.00470.00
2 Bedroom-4 occupants1,540.00895.00645.00
Special Interest and
Sorority1,440.00835.00605.00
Houses
5 occupants1,230.00715.00515.00
6 or more occupants1,040.00605.00435.00
5>
XIo
o
Dillon Answers Complaints
continued from page 1
The removal of snow is not under Dil
lon's control, but he complains quite regu
larly to Physical Plant. Complaints about 
snow should be directed to Cushing Phil
lips, director of Physical Plant.
Dillon finished by stating that "com
munication is our major problem." He urg
ed students to "be heard in a constructive 
way-If something is not being properly
dealt with, call me and I'll tell you who 
you should talk to about it. .. . I'd encour
age you not to accept the little problems."
Dillon's office is 301 Warner Hall. He 
can be called at ext. 2051. He will be 
speaking in the Hamerschlag Lounge to
night specifically about the new dormitory. 
Interested students are urged to attend the 
program which begins at 8:30 PM.
SEND LIVING VALENTINES.
FTD LoveBundle Bouquet.FTD Valentine 
Bud Vase.
Those FTD Florists really 
get around... for you!
FTD LoveBundle* Bouquet, usually available for less than $17.50. 
FTD Valentine Bud Vase, usually available for less than $10.00. As an 
independent businessman, each FTD Florist sets his own prices. Ser
vice charges and delivery may be additional. Most FTD Florists accept 
major credit cards. _ _ 1979 Florists Transworld DHvry.
B'NAI B'RITH HILLEL-JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
WANT A SUMMER CAMP JOB? 
WANT TO LEARN MORE ABOUT 
JEWISH SOCIAL SERVICE WORK?
Come meet with Mr.Arie Gluck, 
Director, UAHC Harlam Camp in Pa. 
On: Wednesday, February 7 - 
Afternoon & Evening
He will be showing a film depicting 
camp life at 8 p.m.
At: B'nai B'rith Hillel
REFORM JEWISH STUDENTS INTEREST 
MEETING & DINNER 
Sunday February 11 5:30 p.m.
Where? Rodef Shalom Temple, 
Fifth & MorewoodAves. 
Everyone will be guests of the Rodef 
Shalom Temple Brotherhood for din
ner. Included will be a workshop 
around dinner to elicit your needs & in
terests.
Call for reservations, 621-8875
315 S. BELLEFIELD AVENUE (ACROSS FROM HEINZ CHAPEL) 
 621-8875
P"SOFT CONTACT LENSES 
$0500M A PAIR
HARD LENSES 
$ 5500A PAIR
Price includes orientation insertion and removal training complete care-kit and 
carrying case.
The fitting fee will include a spectacle lens prescription and on examination for 
the fitting of contact lenses by Dr. Palmieri. If any changes should occur in the fit or 
prescription within 90 days from the date you receive your lenses we will modify or 
exchange as many lenses as necessary ro to give you the proper fit, vision and com
fort. In many cases you will be able to wear your contacts home on your initial visit 
with us. A 2 week follow up visit is scheduled for every patient.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CALL
DR. D. A. PALMIERI
OPTOMETRIST
RT. 19N. WEXFORD, PA.
(NEXT TO STEEL CITY)
935-5761
Member
I American Optometrie Association
EVENING & SATURDAY APPOINTMENTS AVAILABLE
XX.. XK^j
. . . call the FOOD SERVICE DIRECTORS HOTLINE. X2127; Monday 5pm-6pm.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8TARTANFebruary 6, 1979
YOU CAN BE PART OF
FRESHMAN WEEKEND
COUNSELOR APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE 
AT 
SKI BO INFO DESK, MG DESK, DONNER DESK
I , ' ' -
OR 
206 WARNER HALL
COUNSELOR APPLICATIONS DUE FEBRUARY 16
iiiiiiHiiiiiuiituHiiiiiiuuiiiiiiniiiHiMMmiHiiHiitHHiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiitiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiHimtMniiiiiiiNimmiiiiiiiiiitiiiHmimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiimiiiiiiimiiiminiimiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiniitiiiiiitiiininiimiiimiiiiiiniiMiiniiniiiiiiiiiiiimiiiuini
Where were 
you when the 
lights went 
out? Well, 
while the men 
from the Light 
company were 
trying to find 
out where the 
damage was, 
many students 
continued to 
study by
candle light. 
However, some 
students did 
take a holiday 
from their 
work. Morewood Gardens 
might have 
looked dark 
(below) but 
a good deal 
of partying 
was going on 
inside.
photos by Skip Brazelton and Sti^eidmani

---------------------------------------------------

February 6, 1979TARTANPage 9
Students Informed of Room Draw Procedures
Room Retention and Room Selection for the 1979-80 academic year will take place
during the months of March and April. Those current undergraduate dormitory residents
who intend to reside in University facilities in the next academic year must participate in
this process. The dates to remember are:
March 1, 1979 - $100.00 Housing Reservation Deposit Due
March 6, 1979 - Freshmen Room Draw Lottery
March 7, 1979 - Sophomore Room Draw Lottery
March 8, 1979 - Junior Room Draw Lottery
March 14, 1979 D D ? A., n, - Room Retention - All ClassesMarch 15, 1979
April 3, 1979 - Jbnior Room Selection 
April 4, 1979 - Sophomore Room Selection 
April 5, 1979 - Freshmen Room Selection 
Step I - SI00.00 Housing Reservation Deposit
All undergraduates in residence in the dormitories as of Friday, February 9, 1979, 
will be permitted to participate in the Room Draw Lottery, Room Retention and Room 
Selection process upon the payment of a $100 deposit prior to 4:00 PM Thursday, March 
1, 1979. Payments may be made starting Monday, February 12, 1979.
1. A single payment for the entire $100 should be made in the Cashiers Office (locat
ed in the Concourse of Warner Hall) no later than 4:00 PM on Thursday, March 1,
1979.
2. A receipted Housing Reservation Deposit slip will be supplied by the Cashiers Of
fice to each student remitting the deposit. Retain this document for it is authoriza
tion for participation in the Room Draw Lottery, Room Retention and Room Se
lection process.
3. Unless forfeited, this $100 deposit will be applied toward the 1979 fall semesters 
housing charges.
Step D - Room Draw Lottery
Each undergraduate resident who has paid the $100 Housing Reservation Deposit 
should participate in his class's Room Draw Lottery, the random number selection mech
anism which determines the priorities for the Room Selection process.
1. The Room Draw Lottery will take place in the Mor6wood Gardens Recreation Room 
from 10:00 AM to 6:00 PM daily, according to the following schedule:
Tuesday, March 6, 1979 - Freshmen Room Draw Lottery 
Wednesday, March 7, 1979 - Sophomore Room Draw Lottery 
Thursday, March 8, 1979 - Junior Room Draw Lottery
2. The lottery number drawn by a student establishes his priority in Room Selection. 
The individual drawing the lowest number is entitled to first choice of available accom
modations within his class, the next lowest number drawn entitles that student to second 
choice, etc.
3. The Housing Reservation Deposit slip (received in the Cashier's Office) must be 
presented before participation in the Lottery will be permitted.
4. Even those students who anticipate exercising the privilege of Room Retention are 
encouraged to take part in the Lottery. This will insure an appropriate priority for Room 
Selection if Room Retention plans "fall through".
5. The lottery number drawn by a student cannot be transferred or exchanged.
6. Any duly qualified resident who fails to participate in the Lottery on the appropriate 
day may have his name placed at the end of his class's priority list. Thereby, in Room 
Selection, this person would have the 1st choice of available accommodations within his 
class. Those students missing the Lottery but desirous of participation in Room Selec
tion should come to the Housing Office no later than Friday, March 30, 1979, and see 
Mr. Douglas Gross.
Step III - Room Retention
Those current students who have paid their $100 deposits may exercise the privilege 
of Room Retention, the process which makes possible the reservation of current accom
modations for the 1979-80 academic year.
1. Room Retention will take place in the Morewood Gardens Recreation Room on 
Wednesday, March 14, 1979, and Thursday, March 15, 1979, from 10:00 AM to 6:00 PM 
each day.
2. An accommodation may be retained by any subset of that room's current residents, 
provided the individual(s) exercising the right(s) of retention identify sufficient room
mates to fill the accommodation to its designated occupancy level.
3. All those students desirous of living in a particular accommodation, those cxercirng 
the rights of retention and those joining the "squatter(s)", should appear together a! 
Room Retention. Each of these individuals must present his Housing Reservation Deposi
slip and will thereupon be required to sign a Housing License Agreement.
4. Upon the signing of the Housing License Agreement, further participation in Room 
Retention is precluded. Likewise, the $100 Housing Reservation Deposit becomes nonrefundable. If a student signs a License Agreement and does not reside in the dormitories 
in the 1979 fall semester, this deposit is forfeited. Otherwise, it is applied toward the fall 
semester's housing charges.
5. Individuals who participate in Room Retention are not eligible to take part in Room 
Selection.
6. A student who does not exercise his right of retention by 6:00 PM on Thursday, 
March 15, 1979, is precluded from the subsequent use of that privilege.
Step IV - Room Selection
All those rooms which have not been retained will be available for Room Selection, 
the process whereby students who have not participated in Room Retention choose an 
accommodation for the 1979-80 academic year.
1. Room Selection will take place in the Morewood Gardens Recreation Room, accord
ing to the following schedule:
5:00 PM - 8:00 PM - Tuesday, April 3, 1979 - Junior Room Selection
5:00 PM - 8:00 PM - Wednesday, Apr. 4, 1979 - Sophomore Room Selection
5:00 PM - 8:00 PM - Thursday, April 5, 1979 - Freshman Room Selection
2. Within each class, that individual who drew the lowest number in the Room Draw
Lottery (and did not participate in Room Retention) will be given the first choice of
available spaces, the person with the next lowest number will be given second choice, etc.
3. When an individual's lottery number is called, that student must indicate his prefer
ence for an accommodation and identify the roommate(s) who will fill the room to its 
designated occupancy level.
4. All those individuals desirous of living together in a particular accommodation must 
accompany one another to Room Selection. No rooms will be reserved for any group of 
students unless all are present at Room Selection.
5. Each student participating in Room Selection must present a Housing Reservation 
Deposit slip and will thereupon be required to sign a Housing License Agreement.
6. Upon the signing of the License Agreement, further participation in Room Selection is 
precluded. Likewise, the $100 Housing Reservation Deposit becomes non-refundable. If 
a stu lent signs an Agreement and does not reside in the dormitories in the 1979 fall sem
ester, this deposit is forfeited. Otherwise, it is applied toward the fall semester's housing 
charges.
7. If a student is not present when his lottery number is called, his priority is deferred 
until such time as he does appear.
8. Qualified individuals who fail to participate in Room Selection during the designated 
three days have until Thursday, April 19, 1979, to come to the Housing Office to see Mr. 
Douglas Gross and choose an accommodation from the remaining rooms. The roommate 
rules applicable to students who participated in Room Selection apply in these cases also.
The brothers of Alpha Tau Omega returned to tradition (or joined the current return to tradition 
now sweeping American campuses) and held a toga party on Saturday night. Wearing togas and 
sipping beer, visions of "Animal House" were in everyone's heads. John B. never showed, but no 
me missed him. photo by Mike Mefnick
CALL 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10TARTANFebruary 6, 1979
Weber Talks on Labor's Economic Changes
by Bill Kapner
In a discussion with the TARTAN last 
week in his sixth floor Warner Hall office, 
Dr. Arnold Weber, University Provost and 
former Dean of GSIA, talked at some 
length about his career as a labor econo
mist and his perspectives on many labor 
issues of today. Weber, currently one of 
the nation's leading labor economists, has 
been at Carnegie-Mellon since 1973. He
ft
served as Dean of GSIA until 1977 at 
which time he was appointed Provost and 
currently serves the University in that 
capacity.
Dr. Weber's most current research has 
dealt with the wage control-price freeze of 
1971. In the past he has authored or coauthored five books, all dealing with labor 
economics. In 1971 he served as the Execu
tive Director of the Cost of Living Council 
and Special assistant to President Nixon. 
In 1976 he served as an ecomomic consul
tant to the Secretary of the Treasury. The 
remainder of his professional experiences 
are equally impressive and far too numer
ous to list in the context of this article.
Dr. Weber's interest in the field of La
bor Economics developed early, for he is a 
product of a New York City working class 
family. His father was a staunch trade 
unionist. "As a student in the forties," 
Weber stated, "if one had an interest in 
liberal aspects which had implications for 
social action, many of us would concern 
ourselves with the labor issue." He claims, 
"To the youth of the forties and fifties 
the labor movement was what the 
civil rights and anti-war movements were to
the kids of the sixties."
Weber pointed out, however, that over 
the years his capacity and interest for advo
cacy has declined while his interests for 
analysis have increased. He attributes his 
progression from advocate to analyst to a 
general maturity and realization that there 
are no absolute blacks and whites in the 
world, and to an appreciation of the subtle
ties and compexities of the labor issue. He 
no longer sees himself as a pure champion 
of the labor or union "cause"; he does, 
however, consider himself somewhat of a 
friend of labor, although in an analytical 
role he finds himself often criticizing many 
union practices. His involvement with the 
wage-price freezes certainly did not "score 
points"with union officials. Yet, he does 
feel that unions serve a .very constructive 
role in America today and does not ques
tion the credibility of unions as an insti
tution.
Labor Unions have come under heavy 
criticism in recent years because Union 
leadership and those who make the deci
sions for labor are allegedly losing touch 
with the demands and needs of the Union 
rank and file. Weber feels that to some
degree this analysis is correct. He attributes 
the condition to a generational problem 
within the Unions. "The union member
ship is changing," Weber maintains, "Union 
leaders are getting older while the rank 
and file is changing. Today they're younger 
and better educated than ever before. 
Hence, their needs are different from those 
laborers thirty or forty years ago during 
the early days of the labor movement who 
happen to constitute most of today's labor 
leadership."
When asked whether CMU provides an 
atmosphere conducive to his specific and 
current research work, Weber replied that 
there were actually more labor economists 
at the University of Chicago where Weber 
held the position of Isidore and Gladys 
Brown professor of Urban and Labor Eco
nomics. He has benefitted greatly from all 
the other prominent and intelligent econo
mists with different viewpoints and per
spectives at CMU however. Weber also 
claimed that the location of CarnegieMellon provides a good opportunity for 
research work. "Pittsburgh is heavily 
industrialized and highly sensitive to labor 
issues," Weber said.
computer careersComputer Careers atAmdahl...
Where \t>ur Ideas aie Valuable.
Computer professionals are aware that to
days most advanced large-system tech
nology was developed by a company that, 
not too long ago, was virtually unknown.
It was during late 1975 that the company 
first attracted widespread industry attention. 
Now, Amdahl is a major contender in the 
large systems market: a group of highly tal
ented high technologists producing the 
worlds highest performing general purpose 
computers, the V/5, V/6 and V/7. With a 
worldwide installed base of 470 series sys
tems rapidly approaching a half-billion 
dollars.
Although we are growing at a rapid 
pace, we are committed to retaining the same 
creative environment that characterized 
the company when we began. We are still 
small by computer industry comparisons.
We are still friendly. And we still enjoy at
tacking tasks because we think its fun.
We understand that if youre the kind of per
son who has bright ideas, you need room 
to make discoveries and explore your talents. 
You need recognition for your achievements. 
Appropriate reward for your efforts. And 
the chance for your ideas to be heard.
You can expect to find these things at 
Amdahl. So if youre about to receive a BS 
or advanced degree in electrical engineering 
or computer sciences, and consider your
self a cut above your classmates in compe
tence, enthusiasm and potential, why not 
consider a career at Amdahl? You may be 
surprised at w'hat your ideas are worth.
Amdahl Corporation, 1250 East Arques 
Avenue, Sunnyvale, California 94086.
We are an equal opportunity employer.
We are seeking exceptional wople at all 
detjree leech in electrical en(pnccrin<j and 
computer science. Successful applicants /rill 
find thcmsclres meaninufnlhj in ml red in 
projects related to the conceptualization, dcsifpi, derelopment, test, and manufacture 
of latye, adraneed technoUxjij computers and 
sn ppotlintj soft tea re. Some of these projects 
incorMirate the fise of mini or micro 
computers.
ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS:
Friday, February 23
amdahl

---------------------------------------------------

Plans For New Dormitory Revealed
. ^---. TO - *Ct &r . . . ________________________ M
f
f nr-. ->r-. vr k -r*& va*.-. box &%'& n bi, ext* wAr Mrre* to
Thes n-_4, z
JL
Overall ground plan of the new Dorm Complex, 
by Ken Kulak
Maximum space is the design phil
osophy of the new Hill dormitory com
plex, scheduled for occupancy in the 
fall of 1979. As the time for room selec
tion approaches, students may find that 
the new buildings offer several alternatives 
to the standard dormitory fare.
Bill Dillon, director of Auxilary Ser
vices, was willing to talk to the TARTAN 
about the Margaret Morrison Street apart
ments, as well as release the final plans for 
the builddings. As the dormitories near 
completion, Housing will be finalizing 
the guidelines for occupancy; meanwhile, 
workers continue with the task of making 
the interior of the buildings livable.
When one stands across the street from 
the construction site, the first red-brick 
buildings immediately visible are the 
sorority apartments. Previously resigned 
to various floors of Morewood Gradens, 
the five CMU sororities have now been 
given a special living area for their mem
bers. ,The buildings themselves presently give
a rather strange appearance; doorways are
positioned approximately 20 feet off the 
ground, and five large empty rectangular 
spaces make up the lower story. Dillon 
explains that this facade is conisdered to 
be the back of the C building (as it is 
officially referred to); the front will be 
that side of the building which opens 
onto an inter-apartment courtyard. The 
Margaret Morrison side will have a bal
cony running under the first floor door
ways, accessible from the street by 
stairways and an elevator.
The elevator is part of CMUs attempts 
to reduce barriers to the handicapped. 
Its lift will be able to convey students 
from the ground to the balcony level, 
where a path leading to the courtyard 
will also permit wheelchair travel to 
any of the other hill dorms.
The rectangular openings in the base
ment storey are intended tor possible leas
ing to a business or other organization. 
According to Dillon, such a move is still 
quite far away; the process of selection 
must take into account such considera
tions as zoning, campus security, and tax 
status (i.e., an enterprise like National 
Record Mart might cause some difficulty 
in maintaining the current legal situation).
Moving inside, one can see that the
interiors of the two buildings are divided 
into five parts, three sections in the left 
structure and two in the other. Each div
ision has a large first floor living area, 
complete with a commercial kitchen and 
pantry. A stairway leads up from this 
floor to two other levels, each with four 
doubles and two bathrooms.
When asked for a comparison of these 
new doubles to existing campus rooms,
Dillon estimated that they are 4050% 
larger than the standard Donner double. 
Each room is a huge 270 Sq. ft., and has 
an equally huge price: current estimates 
place the annual housing charge some
where between $13001500, which is 
about 22% more expensive than the 
expected 1979 standard double fee of
and each wall is perpendicular to two 
sides of the sections walls. Thus, A 
building has a total of four separate living 
spaces in five separate sections.
Dillon intends to fill this dorm in room 
selection this spring. Presently, the dorm 
is intended to be co-ed, but percentages 
(if any) have yet to be established. Housing 
has not yet decided how students will 
be able to get a feel of what the new 
rooms will be like, since the interior of 
the new buildings will not be completed 
in time for selection; Dillon does intend 
to have some kind of arrangements made.
One of the consequences of the con
struction of the Margaret Morrison Street 
apartments was the destruction of the old 
Woodlawn residences. Housing does realize 
that the special living area concept, 
which was embodied in the Woodlawn 
houses, is a necessary and desirable facet 
of campus life ; because of this, the remain
ing new apartments have been set aside 
for organizations whose members want 
to live together.
The B building itself is basically 
two C building sections put together, 
with the resultant combination divided 
into four parts. Each division will hold 
eight students; two floors similar to those$1100. Even with such a cost, it is ex- . 
pected that these two buildings will be n 0,6 sorority aPartments are abOTe
completely full, housing a total of 80 >8 area, giving a capacity of 32 students
students (16 residents in each of the five  the combi,ned sfti10ns <Just t0 ,kueePsections) mcutre clear, the living area m these
Walking along the path between the two^ 
sorority buildings, two more structures are
apartments is 1/2 the area of each sorority 
living space, and twice the size an A 
building equivalent.) A small kitchen 
proportional to the living area will be 
provided for each quarter, as well as 
separate entrances/exits.
As yet, Housing has not finalized the 
actual procedures which organizations will 
have to follow for special living area elegibility. However, Dillon has said that the 
decisions of who gets in will most 
likely rest with a special committee created 
by Housing. This group will weigh such 
factors as the organizations overall goals, 
the advantages of its members living 
together, and the potential benefits for the 
University as a whole.
The impact of the Margaret Morrison 
Street apartments in the fall of 1979 is 
expected to be one of mixed blessings. 
Though highly enthusiastic about the 
potential of the new living arrangements, 
Dillon does admit that the room crunch 
felt this last fall by many students will 
not be alleviated. Housing expects that 
most of the apartments will be occupied 
by upper class students, leaving freshman 
and sophmores packed into the remaining 
dorms.
Nevertheless, the new buildings will 
certainly be a welcome addition to the 
Hill area, and to the greater campus 
community.
E
now visible. To the left is A building, 
which is set aside as a regular dormitory 
(all students are eligible inhabitants).
Basically, this building is a variation on 
a theme; it is identical to the sorority 
buildings as far as total number of students 
and approximately equal in total square 
feet.
The differences appear in the actual 
subdivisions within the building. As a con
cession to the terrain, the entranceways 
are again located on the first floor, but 
the double rooms are located on the base
ment and second floors. In addition,
Housing felt that 16 people could not be 
asked to live together sorority-style with-1 
out guaranteed common bonds; they \ 
chopped each section into four quarters.
To give these four partitions privacy, the 
designers implemented a half-stairway ;> 
two quarters of the section share a stair
way, but each quarter can only access 
their living areas.
Other aspects of A building include 
kitchenettes in the twenty separate living 
areas, and shared doorways for every 
half-section.
If this is difficult to visualize, the 
sketch abwe might help. In essence, the 
only distinction between this building 
and the sorority apartments is that two 
new walls have been put on every floor,  pun of ha Sorority compiax.
*
~7lo wetrem i l
 L
~a T.
Uis,
\i^
n

a?:

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12TARTANFebruary 6, 1979
It happens more often than you think
by Sherry Siegel
".I screamed my head off, until the 
pain of being hit made me stop...the horror 
of being raped is unforgettable."
--CMU student raped on campus 
(TARTAN, 1-23-79)
1978
1977
1976
1975
Rapes on 
Campus 
0 
1 
1
2
Attempted Rapes 
on Campus 
0 
0 
2 
0
-as reported to CMU Security
According to Security's statistics, not 
many people could have written that let
ter to the TARTAN. Security's statistics 
make CMU out to be a pretty safe place, 
the letter writer's experience notwith
standing. But how safe, really, is CMU? 
At least three things should be questioned 
before you come to your own conclusions.
Statistics
The rape and attempted rape statistics 
for the campus are low, although "even if 
there's one rape on campus, it's a serious 
problem," as one of the nurses in the 
Health Office says. But consider the statis
tics in the CMU area, too, not just those 
put out by the Security office. In 1977, 
532 rapes were reported in Allegheny 
County. Of these, 252 occurred in the 
city of Pittsburgh. And of those, over 50 
were reported happening in the communi
ties immediately surrounding CMU: 29 in 
Oakland, 15 in Squirrel Hill, 10 in Shadyside. That is, in a year when 54 rapes hap
pened in CMU's neighborhood, only one 
person was raped on campus (in Donner 
Hall at Christmastime) -- or so the statis
tics indicate. CMU appears from these 
numbers to be not only safe, but a virtual 
haven for women.
The Nature of the Rape Crime
Rape is recognized by law enforcement 
administrators as one of the most unre
ported of the violent crimes. Sgt. James 
Miles, of the Allegheny County Police De
partment, says, "We can never know how 
many rapes really happen. The old formula 
used to be that for every rape reported, 
four really happened." Sgt. Jim Waters of 
U. Pitt's Police believes the ratio of repor
ted rapes is now thought to be 1:2, and be
lieves that Pitt's statistics are at least that 
accurate (more on college statistics later). 
Allegheny County Det. Cliff O'Hara at
tributes this increasing willingness to report 
rapes to improvements made in treating 
rape victims (by women's centers, crisis 
centers) and to the "headway" made in 
court through legislation. He cited as an
example the fairly recent law against ask
ing about a victim's past sexual history.
[Det. O'Hara's faith in the courts doesn't 
appear to be shared by rape victims, and 
for good reasons. Of the 532 county rapes 
reported in 1977, in only 55 cases did 
women press charges. Of those 55 cases, 
the alleged perpetrators--the rapists, ac
cording to the women--were found guilty 
in 32 instances. In percentages these num
bers translate into only 25-50% of all 
rapes reported in the first place, 10% of 
which are brought to court. Of this 10%, 
40% are found guilty.]
Whether you choose to believe the 1:2 
ratio, which puts CMU campus rapes at 8 
during the past four years, or the 1:4 ratio 
making the number of rapes 16, the fact 
(remains that no rape statistics reflect ac
curately the number of women being 
raped.
Personal Experience
Ask a tew of your upperclass female 
friends what they know about rape on 
campus, and they'll recite a list of things 
they've heard about or know about 
first-hand. You'll find that they might 
know someone who was raped on campus, 
know someone whose friend was raped on 
campus, or that they themselves have been 
in at least one situation where they felt in 
serious danger of being sexually attacked 
on campus. Ask more and more people and 
the horror stories start adding up. The 
rape in Coal Research. The Doherty Apart
ment rape. The other Donner Hall rape. 
The Morewood Gardens attack. The Fine 
Arts flasher. The rape at the beginning of 
Beeler Street, right off campus. The rape 
that happened in 1978, which doesn't 
show up in the statistics.
Enough people mentioned the same 
rape to convince me they were not making 
these up. There were enough people who 
could tell me when something happened 
so I knew if people were talking about the 
same incident. There were enough people 
certain that the victim had either reported 
or not reported the rape to Security to 
convince me that there is a lot more rape 
and attempted rape at CMU than the fig
ures would have you believe. My own con
clusion is that there are about 7 to 10 rapes 
on campus every year, plus about as many 
attempted rapes.
The statistics will probably remain low. 
Students, like the rest of the people in 
Allegheny County and across the country, 
don't like talking about rape. College of
ficials don't seem too keen on learning 
the real figures anyway; they may, in fact, 
be overlooking a rape here and there when
Rape on Campus
filling out the monthly and yearly reports. 
Sgt. Jim Waters of the Pitt Campus Police 
tells me that 3 rapes were reported on 
Pitts campus in 1978, and 2 in 1977. In
terestingly enough, CMU Security Captain 
Kocis told me that a Pitt Security man told 
him that there were 6 rapes reported in 
1978 -- and that the Pitt man believes the 
true number was closer to 20.
Luther Montgomery, Chief of Security 
at Chatham College, told me there were no 
reported rapes on the Chatham campus in 
1978 or 1977; he seemed revolted by the 
very thought and didn't enjoy the conver
sation much. When asked about attempted 
rapes or assaults for those years, he replied, 
"We don't have any." "Any reports of at
tempts or assaults, or any statistics on 
them?" I asked. "We don't have any of
that here, we haven't had anything like 
that for the past few years," he replied. 
Anne Pride of Pittsburgh Action Against 
Rape says that a student was raped at 
Chatham about three weeks ago.
Capt. Kocis acknowledges the fact that 
people are hesitant to speak out about 
rapes ("It's a tough problem"), but asks for 
cooperation. If there are [more] rapes 
on campus, I wish they were reporting 
them." He also assured me that whatever 
rapes are reported to Security are totaled 
into the statistics. My sources, however, 
tell me that the 1978 rape was reported to 
Security. Also, I counted at least 5 rapes 
reported to Security in 1975 and 1976, 
and their numbers show only three. Rape, 
evidently, isn't a popular subject in any
body's book, including statistics book.
Whether the statistics are low because 
students aren't reporting cases to Sec
urity or because Security isn't reporting 
cases back to the campus or both, one 
thing remains clear: We are assuming that 
the campus is safer than it really is. Victims 
of rape here, then, are in part victims be
cause they've been receiving wrong infor
mation. Anyone who has ever avoided re
porting a suspicious incident to Security is 
guilty of spreading this wrong information. 
As we live and work here, thinking CMU is 
two to four times safer than it really is, we 
may foolishly do something we would 
never do if we knew that the chance of be
ing raped was greater.
One student who two summers ago ran 
from Gino and Pete's in Oakland to the 
B-tower alcove, where she hid until dawn 
to escape the man chasing her, admitted 
that she never would have walked home 
alone from Oakland at three o'clock in the 
morning if she hadn't brought her 'CMU 
state of mind' into Oakland with her. 
"CMU just seems so safe," she said. "It's
removed from the city, from Oakland; it 
has its own security force; it's a small 
university where everyone knows everyone 
else.. I don't think we realize just how 
dangerous it is."
There is also the possibility that a 
rapist who knows his crime isn't reported 
feels encouraged to go out and rape an
other woman. It has happened: one
woman told of two friends being raped on 
campus by the same man, one night after 
the other. She believes the second rape 
might not have happened if the first 
victim had reported it to Security. "As 
long as people think that campus is safer 
than it really is," she said, "they're not 
going to be as careful as they can or should 
be." The illusion of safety is bound to 
interfere with common sense.
The situation on campus now is not 
that the incidence of rape is low, as the 
statistics say. The situation is instead that 
we don't think rape is a problem because 
we don't have accurate statistics: We dont 
really know how much rape there is at 
CMU.
If you are raped, attacked, or assaulted 
on campus, tell Security about it. Only 
when we know the extent of rape on cam
pus will we know the real problem; and on
ly if we know the problem can we hope 
to solve it.
The Best Defense 
Is a Good 
Offense
Anne Pride of Pittsburgh Action Against 
Rape (PAAR) offers advice on how to avoid 
being raped, instead of the usual advice on 
what to do if you are raped.
"Be aware that rape can happen to you," 
she says, "and don't be scared. Think about it 
creatively, and think about it before you have 
to. As you walk across campus the next time, 
think about where you could run if someone 
started after you. What buildings have lights 
on? Where is there an open door you could 
run into? Where could you find other 
people?
"Think about what you could do if you 
woke up in the middle of the night and there 
was somebody standing over you. As you do 
anything routine, make plans. Think ahead."
Ms. Pride says, too, that body language 
plays a big part in determining who will be 
raped and who wHI not. "Be conscious about 
how you look on the street: be very alert, 
walk with a purpose, and don't look as if 
your last friend just left you and you would
n't have the energy to scream if you were at
tacked. Also, be aware of who's on the street. 
We've found that women who were raped la
ter say, 'I saw him, but it didn't really regis
ter/ or 'I saw him, but I didn't think much of 
it.' We tend not to look at people."
PAAR is at 211 South Oakland Avenue, 
Oakland.
DISINE
for 45 mins. Allow to cool 15 mins. before 
cutting.Mack History Month
All this cold weather calls for something 
varrn and filling; lasagne fits the bill, mar
velously.
LASAGNE
8 oz. box lasagne noodles, cooked and 
drained 
1 Tablespoon salad oil 
Spaghetti sauce, homemade or storebought 
16 oz. ricotta or cottage cheese 
8 oz. mozzarella, thinly sliced or shredded 
Vi cup parmesan cheese
Combine noodles with oil. Spread about 
X cup of sauce in a 13x9x2 baking pan. 
Add a layer each of noodles, ricotta, moz
zarella, sauce, and parmesan. Repeat the 
layering process twice. Bake at 325 degrees
Ralph Ellison (1914 - ) is a novelist
and essayist, whose novel Invisible Man 
(1952) is one of the contemporary fiction's 
most moving treatment of the black exper
ience in American society.
Ellison was born in Oklahoma City, 
Okla. where he worked as a waiter and 
shoeshine boy to help pay his way through 
Tuskeegee Institute (1933-36). In 1939, he 
began writing seriously. After the publica
tion of Invisible Man and the winning of 
the National Book Award in 1953, lie came 
to be perhaps the most honored of black
writers with a long series of honorary 
degrees and guest professorships.
Invisible Man is a ''comic" novel, in the 
bitter, self-mocking tradition of comedy 
that can often be more despairing than 
tragedy. The narrator, whose name is never 
given, describes how he comes to realize 
that he is in fact 'invisible' - that as a 
black man in the US he can never really be 
seen as a thinking feeling human being. 
"Who knows,'' Ellison's protagonist asks 
the reader, "but that on the lower levels, 
I speak of you?"
Tired of Blowin'
Away Your Weekend? 
Work for the TARTAN

---------------------------------------------------

TAVY< PUAlK'
A4PE-'
FEBRUARY 6, 1979 Volume ill/ ISSUE 18 
The Sultans
cRiMe nvT^e. 
STREETSffcSPLT 601 NUTS... (SOT 
To POT A STOP To
yr. FFeber mr
Jo81...TOUT'S .fflGrtT-.JI'MACiaP!,
M'TNAME-M^NOM1
PRIVATE EYE 
SPECIAL kS6\<W 
went... MYJ6B| JUSTICE!!
THEY 5 AY TWS 
W6f?ul> is <SOD 
&VIU... THO^ ISido
BUVCK, W WTe^EUijW 
fcEDVJHEtJ Y<*>'r?e: itJ
MY Professi6N - \t!> 
\imAT f?\SrtT ftfjp WK 
VJ&CXJGr---  AfJD If 
TtfEY <SE-T fi- R26IW 
MET..............
SEND
myp+
i'tt- 6o akvfbuhCOT WA^\5NAfA.H-j! GtT SoMe INFO-..
,hacv pe&pur Y*ia 
VWfVE ypagvTfvsd dd
WE" U'V IN VIOLENT 
Vxof?U>!...
f 3i'ULU#Hr-TV(- 
<**<> 
TO...
'SroPi...
/(siJA^AWAOA
LAW.'|
22Z/
. X1 iowebiUrtGtfvtrf-U*e<i4V^ase..- -

---------------------------------------------------

ChairOUT*
SSENDLf t>lSrtiSTjU -
HMWtfWPAV 
Vf PMI!!*HKYfHIU.... .> HOW MUCH THIS 
BIRD CAN TALK'
ultvT wriw/f th &JWC0 wsreo./ 
6/RLR\&TL...f#W MCttimf*05...
Mehfa Willie
LLIVSi/JDRUFF:...
mrf-js
MR.VJNl\|Bt5E" 
IHREtTjME...
souT^yj<3F
WKFTt...
I '
iOCE'i&O -X6M6T J 05TAMOTKCR 
yiow asHic.-BUT^VER^
*EM*?VC^NiHei E^PERimWC..r Mr name..: pm l thee...- this knife...oweBeRVftjusT
WEMINPIM Yc*J $FTHAT MRKHE Wt^A. ttPESiENK*
LNSI VGNA T. Mntt-SttIG VL... 
"THE <SAW6*.... S^IUl3*KK x.
.SK?aSJF ^Mtst..
-MW SWKVocrA. ^ MNNS .. LTCAL L VGAAT. CAOCyksc^CH...
JohVAie USKTNtV'fAST
/LlKt Dl$C\ J^P)
^IjLlPOZER!
I StWAt Bo.ND/GKW UtiKUWT... A Miv^M 
?tfNOA AVBPfiE" use. .
A)Jt LAST BYT MSTrtT AU. LGASTf
THAT BtAciM*6iC.W*J...T**T 
Mtenee. ua y6,197e_VFFFF eolm
tO-DODE WlTHrWV HjyJ j ICXtoBo!-3EMNllNS!i!...
*TffiP9F
0KAY/..B1RDEE..: WHAWjATrtiNk 
PHIL HEKE?^cUEAPli
TARTAN FOLIO
FEBRUARY 6, 1979/VOLUME lll/ISSUE 18: 
THE SULTANS
EDITOR: K. A. YAKSICH 
ASSISTANT EDITOR: FRED LA POINTE 
ART DIRECTOR: LISA AMOWITZ
-/ \
CON RIBUTING ARTISTS: TOM HART
COVER DESIGN: TOM HART
"res clvm ftSKx
<9TiT!...THE
Mtffhyf oo
*,c ^

---------------------------------------------------

xM (f <
In Spring, a young man's fancy turns to 
thoughts of love... but even though it's still win* 
tery outside, we hope your thoughts will turn 
there, too, because the February 13 FOLIO'S 
theme is "Valentine's Day". We're looking for 
appropriate stories, poems, and artwork dedicated 
to whatever it is thkt you love. Just drop them off 
at the TARTAN office or mailbox by February 6. 
That's all there is to it.
We're always interested in larger works to turn 
into special four-page FOLIOs, too. And the 
themes for the next few weeks include these:
February 13: Valentine's Day (deadline: Feb. 6) 
February 27: The. . .Cookbook (deadline: Feb20) 
March 13: Sci Fi Ish (deadline: March 6)
March 20: Masterpiece Parodies (deadline Mar113)
HYB\)LUx32Ek! 
WHY SO 6l\)M\7.
iW/A.
jrtMMW.-uammE--m/wK  ------7. C(PCr oeix*e...
AW- MY FIRST wr 3^ GeTBfKfc WAi
MW- J <*-' uxni -
Toj,<SW
(SextMV- . i
sptf PUIL BftBEEiA 6T2EW TIMS t^S' NlTE!OW'D YA DO IT?
, Aw.-.iTwAf A ClWCrt-.-X. JVST
.AC cM UzpCfA D
Uf TO 'i&Ufc PRQfi* 
TttieoffT AWDTdto

---------------------------------------------------

its vourmove
Top talent always makes the right move, 
and so does TRW. Every facet of what 
we are doing is on the cutting edge of 
now and the future...tuned into the 
wavelengths of the farthermost reaches 
beyond. If you feel your career is in 
check position, think hard...then make 
your move. Because, at TRW, we are 
looking for top engineering talent with 
that intuitive quality of mind who are 
capable of making the synaptical leap 
into the future. There is space for you 
among your peers and lots of head 
room. Think about it. The point of power 
is acting now! Its your move!
COMPUTER SCIENCES
BS, MS, PhD
At TRW, we have one of the most 
advanced high technology facilities in 
the world. Our products, from the 
smallest micro circuit to the largest 
satellite, are designed by the top notch 
teams of professionals...with a growing 
need for bright young people like you 
who can contribute new ideas and 
concepts. We are diversified enough for 
you to build a sound career and grow 
professionally as your responsibilities 
and contributions increase.WE WILL BE INTERVIEWING
ON CAMPUS...
FEBRUARY 19
Consider carefully your career goals, 
then consider a company called TRW.
For the following disciplinesREMEMBER...top professionals are 
known by the company they keep. 
Especially when the company is called 
TRW, an equal opportunity employer 
offering excellent salaries and an 
outstanding Flexible Benefits Plan.
ENGINEERING
AERONAUTICAL
CIVIL
ELECTRICAL
ELECTRONICS
MECHANICAL
MATHEMATICS
PHYSICS
If you would like TRW to know about 
you, come by and see us when were 
on campus or send us your resume:
MANAGER OF COLLEGE RELATIONS 
R5/B180  CMU26 
ONE SPACE PARK 
REDONDO BEACH, CA 90278
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
# r * I  I * * I r * r * .  f f < I ft * ? tJ  *  11 V* w - m  ^ N  SYSTEMS GROUP

---------------------------------------------------

_______________ENTERTAINMFNT
'Movie, Movie' gives double dose of the past
New York and others have failed. Movie, 
Movie doesn't try to be a 1930's film, 
it attempts to depict an era.
A great deal of research and study was 
done of old films in order to remain true 
to the original concepts. According to 
Stanley Donen, director of Movie, Movie, 
"each studio had a 'look' all its own... 
Warner Brothers has been called 'the 
studio of the people.' They specialized 
in intimate stories of common life and 
hardbitten city dramas." It was his desire 
for Movie, Movie to accomplish what 
the 30's films "did so well-displaying 
sentiment over sentimentality and making 
people laugh with the stories rather than at 
them."
He does admit that there were obstacles 
to overcome "From almost every angle, 
it was not an easy picture to make," 
Donen notes. "The 1930's are light-years 
away. Our consciousness and our sensib
ilities have been very much broadened,
as well as heavily assaulted in recent de
cades. The world has changed, we have 
changed and the film business has changed. 
At one time, an attractive woman in front 
of a stationary camera doing a simple 
tap step could bowl over audiences. Tap 
dancing and women in scanty outfits 
were new things for the mass audience 
of that era, because film itself was rela
tively new. That kind of scene-todaywould hold an audience for about two 
seconds."
"I agree," says Donen, "with what 
Larry Gelbart (one of the- writers) said 
regarding films that are inspired by earlier 
films--that they always seem unable to 
sustain themselves in full-feature length. 
That is why we have made two separate 
movies within one entertainment package. 
And, entertaining people, is for me, the 
bottom line." One thing that Movie, 
Movie unquestionably does well is en
tertain.
private life) who portray widely diverse characters 
producer and actress (above) and a fighter's jilted 
by Joan Livitski
The movies of the 1930's (especially 
the musical-comedy extravaganzas) have 
always held a special appeal for me. Who 
can resist the happy-go-lucky, charismatic' 
innocence of Fred Astaire or the aloof 
yet seductive mystery of Greta Garbo? In 
the 30's movies were fun, movies were an 
escape, movies were entertaining!
A number of recent attempts have been 
made to bring back the 30's style movie, 
few with any success. Most notable of 
these was New York, New York whose 
fault might have been in taking itself 
too seriously. One problem in working on 
such a project is restricting yourself too 
much, being so engrossed with looking 
back that you forget the present. Liza 
Minnelli is a fine actress in her own right, 
yet in New York, New York she was over
shadowed by the memory of her mother 
in similar settings.
Movie, Movie, a new film by Warner 
Brothers, successfully captures the essence 
' of those by-gone films, not only in its 
pure humor and fantasy plots but in its 
format as well. The film's unique con
struction follows that of a classic double 
feature complete with previews of coming 
attractions between the two separate 
films. Dynamite Hands, the first feature, 
is a story about hard times, dedication
Broadway producer Spats Baxter (George C. 
Scott) points the way to stardom for young 
hopeful Kitty Simpson (Rebecca York).
in Movie, Movie. In one feature they are Broadway 
sweetheart and his manager in the other (below).
and love centered around the boxing
ring. The second is Baxters Beauties Of
1933 which depicts the backstage reality
behind a Broadway show's tinsel and
glitter.
George Burns opens Movie, Movie, 
but he.js in neither of the films. It sounds 
bizarre, but actually if we're accepting 
that it's the 1930's and we re going to the 
Bijou with our nickel clutched in our 
tight little fist, then it fits in perfectly. 
Burns' introduction serves much the same 
purpose as the old Warner Brothers' 
cartoons. Of course I mean this in the 
most affectionate way.
Heading the cast(s) is George C. Scott 
who portrays very different characters in 
each feature. This re-issuing of stars in 
different roles is another carry over from 
the 30's that makes Movie, Movie char
acteristic of that time. The list of stars 
and newcomers alike is impressive as are 
the performances. Some of the more 
familiar faces include: Trish Van Devere, 
Barbara Harris, Red Buttons, Ann Rein
king, Barry Bostwick, Art Carney and 
Eli Wallach. A couple of new faces to 
watch for in the future are Rebecca York 
and Harry Hamlin (whom 1 just adored in 
BB of 1933).
The plots are simplified to an obvious 
level, and the language is so corny it's 
still on the cob. Rather than detracting, 
this "purity" adds a unique dimension. 
Instead of being hit over the head with 
sex, violence, or some profound "mes
sage", as is the case with most contem
porary films, we are given something 
that is there first and foremost to amuse. 
Don't make the mistake of classifying it 
with the Disney Films though. Movie, 
Movie contains all the elements that get 
films those restrictive ratings, and yet it 
is suggested in what is left unsaid and 
undone rather than being direct. Typ
ifying this, most of the jobs rely on puns 
as opposed to strong punch lines.
Movie, Movies unpretentious  quality 
might just be that added factor above 
and beyond the necessary elements of a 
good cast, script, director, set, etc. thal 
allow it to succeed where New York
A one-time delivery boy turned prize fighter (Harry Hamlin) gets instructions from his second (Red 
Buttons) and his manager (George C. Scott).
'West Side'to open thisweek
Carol Burt and Brent Barrett share a joyous moment as Maria and Tony in CMU's musical theatre pro 
duction of West Side Story. The show runs February 8 to 10 and 12 to 17 in the Kresge Theatre, 
ticket information call 578-2407. See review in next week's TARTAN.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18TARTANFebruary 6, 1979
MONDAY. FEBRUARY 12
Alternate Life Styles
THURSDAY. FEBRUARY 15
New Issues: Test Tube Babies 
Cloning, Etc.
Alice Cooper's music comes from within
oy Alan Spero
Earlier in 1978 Alice Cooper admitted 
himself into a New York State hospital to 
fight his alcoholism. When he returned to 
the real world Cooper had not only been 
cured of his drinking problem but he had 
also conceived of an album revolving 
around his (real or imagined) experiences 
at the hospital. The results of his efforts is 
From The Inside.
From The Inside is a concept album to 
the minutest detail. Every photograph on 
the sleeve, every lyric on the lyric sheet, 
comes together to tell haunting, sometimes 
grisly, tales of each of the inmates. The 
album cover is loaded with die cut trap
doors which open to reveal different 
scenes. The photography on the front 
cover is stunning.
The lyrics of this album are uncannily 
clear and sharp. Whether youre supposed 
to feel sympathy or repulsion, the lyrics 
evoke either with the same impact. Even 
without the photographs, the Ivrics them
selves conjure up three-dimensional images 
of each character. Part of the credit for this 
is due to the collaboration of Alice with 
Bernie Taupin (Elton Johns ex-lyricist), 
who also helped Cooper conceive the 
album idea.
The major flaw in this immense under
taking is the music. To be sure, there are
Pregnant? And you didn't 
mean to be? For a free 
pregnacy test and con
fidential, understanding 
support, call Birthright.
621-1988
hard rock songs on this album, along with 
softer ballads, and the old Cooper sick-wit 
shows up too. But, for all the contributing 
composers and musicians that are present 
on this album (Rick Nielson, David Foster, 
Dick Wagner, Kiki Dee, Marcy Levy) 
these songs all sound disappointingly the: 
same. And, although the tempo of this 
album is much improved over the laconic 
Lace and Whiskey, it still lacks the punch 
and drive of anything Cooper did with the 
Billion Dollar Babies.
There is another problem with the 
music, in that the piano, not the guitar, is 
the main instrument. And when you add 
Davey Johnstone, Dee Murray, Kiki Dee, 
(Elton Johns ex-guitarist, ex-bass player, 
and ex-back-up singer, respectively) and 
Bernie Taupin to the mix, the sum total of 
their efforts come off like, you guessed it, 
an Elton John album. In fact, the song The 
Quiet Room, comes off as a sequel to 
Johns Feed Me from his Rock Of The 
Westies album; it just continues to tell 
what it's like to be locked up in an asylum. 
The music to the single How You Gonna 
See Me Now is so slow and dull, that it 
would make a great lullaby. In fact, 
throughout the album, no matter how.
hard-hitting or poignant the lyrics are, the 
music just cant rev itself up enough to 
match it. There are two exceptions to this 
overall dullness, and thats in the songs 
Serious and For Veronicas Sake, two hardrocking numbers loaded with Coopers 
humor and slick guitar work. Its these two 
songs which give me hope that Coopers 
finally headed back on the right track 
towards his role as headmaster of the 
bizarre school of heavy metal rock.
BNAI B'RITH HILLEL-JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
SPECIAL FRIDAY NIGHT DINNER 
($2.50 instead of regulor $4.00)
FRIDAY FEBRUARY 9
Services begin at 5:30 p.m., 
followed by dinner 
Call for reservations, 621-8875
At: B'nai B'rith Hille!
31 5 S. Bellefield Ave.
ISRAEL FILM NIGHT 
Saturday February 10 9 p.m.
Where: B'nai B'rith Hillel Lounge 
315 S. Bellefield Ave.
Featuring Israeli short films 
& medley of slides
Sponsored by Campus Campaign 
for Israel & World Jewry
315 S. BELLEFIELD AVENUE (ACROSS FROM HEINZ CHAPEL)
621-8875
Music states 
heritage
by C.T. Goodman
Music has always been an integral part 
of Black history, from tribal celebrations in 
the motherland, to songs of strife during 
slavery, to discomania with Donna Sum
mer. Blacks have used music to relay love, 
life, happiness, pain, glory, you name it. 
So, it is only fitting that a large part of 
Black Awareness Week demonstrates that. 
First, was CMUs second annual Gospel Ex
travaganza featuring gospel singers from 
the greater Pittsburgh area. Performing 
were The Four Kings, The Pittsburgh All 
Stars, The Voices of Zion and a host of 
others. Preluded by a devotional service, 
the concert spiritually uplifted us all.
Later in the month of February, tne cel
ebration will continue with the Pitt Jazz 
Ensemble. Previously led by Nathan Davis, 
the ensemble is now under the guidance of 
the internationally renowned Kenny Clark 
and is doing exceptionally well. Mr. Clark 
has only been with the ensemble for a 
short time but feels very much at home 
with them. Their concert is a must for ev
ery music lover on campus.
And last but quite far from least, is the 
Ozanam Strings, a black youth orchestra. 
This performance should instill a pride and 
awe in us all. With the majority of musici
ans under the age of twenty, this beautiful
ly trained orchestra oozes a dedication and 
talent not often found in young artists.
Music, sweet musicCarnegie Mellon 
Universitys Black Awareness Week has it 
all.
See Up coming events listing for exact 
dates and times.
That's right. You get the haircut. 
But, we keep the hair. Unless, of 
course, you're stuffing pillows in 
your basement as a sideline. In 
which case, we'll put your shear
ings in a plain brown bag for you 
to take home.
Most guys and gals, however, are
mainly interested in the hair we 
leave uncut, because that's what 
says who they are.
At Great Ex we help get your 
head together. . .with your hair. 
No appointments needed either.
Just come in.
HAIRCUTS
(Wasti-Cut-Blow)
Mm. Tims. Wad. 10-7 
Tlmrs. Fri. 10-1 
Sat
nr 
UKcnmonsPRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
COLORING
237 ATWOOD STWET 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 15213 
(37-3500
UNISEX HAIR SALON
PERMANENTS
2500
Ite
innnintniMh
At Great X..you ddn't get what you pay for
Campus Program Planning and the Department of 
Residence Life present an eight-part Human 
Sexuality Program. All programs will be held in the 
Wherrett Room, Skibo at 8:00 p.m. and are open to 
the campus at no charge. Speakers will include 
professsonal doctors and counselors from the CMU 
and Pittsburgh area.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 8
Sexual Health

---------------------------------------------------

February 6,1979TARTANPage 19
TEXT, TECHNICAL, BUSINESS 
AND GENERAL BOOKS
TREMENDOUS SAVINGS!
DOZENS OF SUBJECTS - 
HUNDREDS OF TITLES
emu bookstore
by Ted Perry, Director
The British Film Institute of London 
c 1979 Ted Perry
I have spent most of my adult life 
writing serious (so I am told) articles 
about film study and filmmaking. Now I 
want to say something personal about 
just why I have been so engrossed for so 
long in looking at, thinking about, making, 
and writing about movies.
It began when I was 12 years old and a 
parent gave me a movie camera for my 
birthday. (Yes, Virginia, this is a true 
fact.) A 16mm movie camera, no less, 
one of those Keystone devices which you 
load with a 50 foot film cartridge which 
had 50 feet of film inside. It was simple to 
load and simple to operate. There was a 
lens setting for bright days and one for 
cloudy days.
The first 50 foot roll I got back was 
really astonishing. For whatever reasons, 
light, color, movements, the inherent 
capacity of the camera machine to impose 
itself upon whatever it was recording, there 
was a definite difference in the world 
which I thought I experienced and the one 
projected on the film screen. At the same 
time, there was some correspondence, or 
I would not have even remotely recog
nized the world. I was shocked. Was it 
really possible that the world, as I thought 
1 percieved it, was perhaps different? 
Was it possible that people were not quite 
as I understood and felt them to be?
And what about the picture of me? 
That was what really devastated me, the 
picture of myself. Was that me? It wasnt 
the me I thought was me. And if the 
movies depicted some creatrue which was 
a different me than the one I knew and 
trusted, was it possible that other people
did not see the me I thought I was? 
And if that is possible, which person was I? 
The one I see, the one my enemies see, 
or the one my friends see?
I have never gotten very far away from 
the questions started by my first home 
movies. The dialogue between me and the 
world still goes on, trying to decide 
what is true and what is merely an aber
ration, what is cliche and what is eternal, 
what is true and what is a misperception. 
Thats where it began. Or so I tell myself, 
so I remember it. The real truth may have 
more to do with the fact that I was begin
ning to grow a beard.
I prefer, however, to think that it was 
looking at those first home movies which 
served as my coming of age, discovering 
that there was a way other than my own of 
perceiving the world. That was the begin
ning for me of understanding, if not 
appreciating, that the way I saw the world 
was not the same as every other person. 
People I thought I knew rather well were 
in fact different people to others and even 
to the people themselves. And the cher
ished image of myself, which I held to be 
revealed truth, was not in fact an image 
held by other people.
Since that moment, I seem to have 
spent most of my time trying to reconcile 
my perceptions with other viewpoints, 
literally. And since I am rather poor at 
seeing things from any vantage point 
other than my own, I need every crutch 
I can get in order to see things from other 
viewpoints. The movies still do that for 
me. They offer the other half of an im
portant dialogue. What I see in the movies, 
the best of them, is a new, fresh statement 
about me, my fellow humans, and the 
world. I test, compare, and revise my 
own understanding in the light of this 
new statement.
Dy uavia snewara
There is many a joke about the similar
ities in name of Ingrid Bergman and Ingmar 
Bergman (I can even remember an entire 
three minutes devoted to it on an episode 
of All in the Family). In case youve been 
hiding in a cave for the last thirty years Ill 
enlighten you as to the difference. Ingrid 
is one of the worlds greatest screen actres
ses, she usually specializes in attractive, 
sympathetic heroines. Ingmar is one of the 
worlds greatest, if not the greatest film dir
ectors, he usually specializes in deep psy
chological studies of fascinating, complex 
characters. Now these two magnificent 
screen artists have combined their talents, 
along with Ingmars perennial leading lady 
Liv Ullmann to produce a searing examina
tion of the mother-daughter relationship, 
Autumn Sonata.
The female Bergman stars as Charlotte, 
an aging concert pianist who is spending a 
few days at the home of her daughter, Eva, 
played by Ullmann. At first everything is 
perfectly normal, but we gradually discover 
that Charlotte is selfish and superficial, 
unable to develop any sort of relationship 
with anyone. She has just come from the 
hospital where her lover of fifteen years 
died. The death is quickly shrugged off and 
Charlotte insists on wearing bright red 
rather that mourning black. She hardly 
knows her second daughter, Helena, who is 
retarded both physically and mentally.
Eva is not much better off. Her only 
child died when he was four years old, and 
she communicates with him, believing he 
can touch her cheek and hug her. She is 
mousy, subdued and self-effacing, handing 
her letters to her pastor husband for appro
val. The inevitable confrontation occurs 
between mother and daughter when Eva 
explodes at Charlotte for deserting her as a 
child to go on concert tours and indirectly 
causing Helena's illness by neglecting her. 
An attempt is made at reconciliation, but 
Charlotte flies off on another tour retreat
ing within herself.
Both roles are unusual for the actresses. 
Bergmans portrayals were usually of gen
erally warm, loving women. Here die is 
superficially jolly and amiable, but under
neath she is without feeling or thought for 
anyone else. Her neglect of her daughters is 
glossed over with a recitation of concert 
and recording dates. Ullmann has played 
twisted and supressed characters before, 
but she retained her stunning beauty. Here 
she sacrifices her unique attractiveness by 
wearing unflattering dresses, granny glasses 
and pigtails. As usual her psyche is laid 
bare with harrowing intensity.
Director Bergamn once again proves he 
is the master of the close-up, by giving 
both principals extremely close range shots 
and allowing their emotions to flow 
through their eloquent faces. In one scene 
Eva plays a Chopin prelude and then asks 
Charlotte to play the same piece. As Eva 
plays painstakingly the camera zooms in on 
Charlotte contemplating her strained rela
tionship with Eva. When Charlotte plays, 
Eva watches, her face showing that she 
realizes Charlotte reserves her feelings for 
her performances at the piano.
Both Actress Bergman and Director 
Bergman, along .with Ullmann make Aut
umn Sonata a shattering, unforgettable 
experience.
Engineering & Computer Science Majors
DONT MISS TALKING TO THE HUGHES RECRUITER VISITING YOUR CAMPUS SOON.
Contact your placement office 
for interview dates.
HUGHES
L.______________________________
Creating a new world with ehctrotvcs
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER M/F
Director gives thoughtsTwo Bergmans make good team

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20-TARTAN-February 6, 1979
'Greatest Hits' great but 'City' has no meaning
by Phil Burda
The Marshall Tucker Bands Greatest 
Hits album is your typical greatest hits al
bum. Take a band which has been around 
a few years (seven), has put out a string of 
albums (seven), and has recently attained 
widespread popularity. The promoters will 
capitalize on the popularity in two ways: 
turning out a new album with little effort, 
and giving the fans a wider taste of the 
group. Thus, for all the fans who enjoyed 
Can t You See and Heard it in a Love Song,
here is an opportunity to get a taste of the 
full character of the Marshall Tucker Band.
The Tucker Band is a representative of 
the newest trend in rocknroll. It has been 
called country rock, Southern rock, 
Dixie rock, etc. It is a combination of 
hard rock and classical country music. This 
new trend is actually a full coming-around 
in cycle for rocknroll, since its roots are 
in American country music. The footstomping, wild music produced by such 
bands as Z.Z. Top, Charlie Daniels, and the 
Eagles provide the rowdy successor to the
acid rock of the sixties. It is also distinctly 
American, and has a basic, homey appeal 
to it.
Marshall Tucker got its start touring 
with the Allman Brothers, and has cashed 
in on country rocks popularity through 
hard work and talent. They are the* epit
ome of a folksy, down-home band, and this 
style is reflected in their songs.
While the popular Cant You See and 
Heard it in a Love Song are on the album, 
there are other songs in the same vein, such 
as Searchin For a Rainbow, Fire on the 
Mountain, and Long Hard Ride.
The style of the album is typical coun
try-twanging guitar and vocals, with basic 
southern lyrics.
The advice is that for all typical greatest 
hit albums: If youre a new fan of the 
band, and want to hear more of them then 
pick up this album. If youre a real dedica
ted fan, skip it and buy the original albums.
^ ^ ^ ^ of*^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^
If youre thinking of buying Nazareths 
new album, No Mean City, for God's sake
DONT! If youre so heavily into maso
chism, Ill give you my copy. (If I havent 
used it for a frisbee yet.) It is nothing but 
noise. While Nazareth might claim to be 
hard rock, they have cleverly disguised it as 
unharmonious and horrible yelling. One 
could easily erase the Nazareth label 
from the album and replace it with some
thing like Bachman-Tumer- Overdrive. 
Certainly, they both use the same senseless 
lyrics and boringly repetitive chords as did 
BTO when they cranked out albums every 
other week.
The sad part is that the unique vocals 
and feeling from Love Hurts fame are no'where to be found. It seems to have been 
trampled in the desire to crank out Top 
Forty trash to satisfy the desires of the 
teeny-bopper set, whose tastes run in the 
Kiss and Bay City Rollers vein.
Actually, the album does not deserve 
this much effort in a write-up. Let me 
merely say that the plastic used in produc
ing this album would have more profitably 
been used in filling Bics hollow razor 
handles.
The Marshall Tucker Band represents new trend in music, a combination of hard rock and classical 
countrv.
&ote this :cover nudity
Album covers dont subscribe to any 
formal moral code, but a few albums are 
now suffering the consequences of their 
racy cover art.
Rock group Queen originally slated a 
photograph of a nude bicycle race at Wim
bledon Stadium for the cover of its new 
LP, Jazz. Then the group decided to use 
the photograph as a poster to be enclosed 
inside, and use other cover art. Now, in a 
move designed to satisfy both the consu
mer and more conservative retail outlets, 
the album will be issued under two catalog 
numbers, only one of which will contain
the bicycle poster
S151S151S1S1515MSIS1515151S1SIS1S1!
Meanwhile, an album showing the nude
backside of a football player is being 
stashed under the counter at some Denver 
department stores. On the cover of 
Keys, player-singer Jon Keyworth of the 
Denver Broncos poses (clothed) with a 
nude showering Bronco. The inside record 
sleeve shows more naked Broncos in the 
shower room. None of the photographs 
show frontal nudity. Store clerks report 
the under-the-counter move, allegedly 
sparked by the indignant mother of a 
14-year-old who bought the record, has 
hurt area album sales.
w'i
DISCUSSION AND SLIDE PRESENTATION OF
THOMAS BELL'S
OUT OF THIS FURNACE
WITH
DAVE DEMAREST  ENGLISH PROFESSOR
AND
MIKE WEBER  HISTORY PROFESSOR
WED. FEB. 7 
12:00 NOON WHERRETT ROOM
PRESENATION BY "THE IRON CLAD AGREEMENT" of
OUT OF THIS FURNACE 
8 PM SKIBO BALLROOM
SPONSORED BY CAMPUS PROGRAM PLANNING

---------------------------------------------------

February 6, 1979-TARTAN-Pape 21
682-iJ- .hpc Ave. (Hes 
<621 FOr _..nwaygc-f'
-s risa: -S
N2 0 C nggiF- 10C each " rs sub|ec w o*r s * h Grn
TelTe lYour LvH4oln Ln I JjHInLYiT4 r r4nYols In e11 lO U.l. sYoY4s, Yo u
today
NATIONAL
CAR RENTALWileTcih Iin trclih
'lllMHf
2001. WEST GENERAL ROBINSON STREET 322-4949 5mennNdfost mc ySa20 01 0ihaa h7DahA A0E17Rgz u
EVERY FRIDAY AND SUNDAY ^
TTAR
2002. ROUTE 48 AND LINCOLN WAY 664-0553 WHITE OAK. PA
EVERY FRIDAY AND SATURDAY
THE AREAS ONLY EXCLUSIVELY
UNDER 2 DISCOS!*
Ballet given comic approach by Les Ballet Trockadero
/
by Syd Price
Say, whos that Count Albrecht is hoist
ing up into the air? Is it Margot Fonteyn?
Gelsey Kirkland? No, its 180 pounds of 
hairy ballerina.
Les Ballets Trockadero de Monte Carlo, 
extolled nationwide for tasteless interpre
tation of the classics, is coming to Heinz 
Hall for one performance on February 13. 
This all-male company dons female cost
ume, complete with tutus, hairy armpits, 
and 5 oclock stubble, to show us that ser
ious ballet can be laughable as well as 
lovable. The Trocks do reasonably faithful 
reproductions of the classics- Kirov expa
triates Alexander Minz and Yelena Tchernicova are among the recognized figures that 
have staged works for the company--with 
but a few concessions to travesty. Notwith
standing the slight difference in build 
between a prima ballerina and her Trock 
counterpart (one of Tracks leading ladies 
stands 7 feet tall on pointe), they give us a 
push toward reality in earlier romantic bal
lets which so often sacrifice logic for melo
drama. In Swan Lake, for example, the" 
choreography has been slightly altered to 
remind us just how nasty upset swans can 
really be. (Try to picture Anna Pavlova 
with gnarled muscles and grit teeth.) And 
Fokines Dying Swan is not only dying, its 
moulting as well.
Company director Peter Anastos, who 
dances under the name Olga Tchikaboumskaya (go ahead-pronounce it out loud) ad
mits that his ballerinas, though all trained 
ballet dancers, are largely not good enough 
to enter professional companies. As a thea
tre company though, they dance as well as 
they need to, and are dedicated above and 
beyond the proverbial call of duty; every
one of them performs the painful feat, 
highly implausible for a male, of dancing 
on full pointe. Sounds easy, you say? Just 
try cramming your size 11 feet into a pair 
of toe shoes; youll better appreciate what 
an admirable accomplishment it is.
Among the works in the Trockadero 
repertoire are Phaedra Monotonous, paro
dying Martha Grahams deathly somber 
mythological epics, A Corral Offering 
remember de Milles Rodeo? -- and Yes, 
Virginia, Another Piano Ballet. Tickets are 
on sale at Heinz Hall, Kaufmanns and 
Gimbels. If you hate ballet, give up your 
uncultured sloth ways and see this show. If 
you love ballet and consider this 
blasphemy go anyway-you damn well 
ought to have a sense of humor.
riiii
To order tickets, complete the following and mail 
with a SELF ADDRESSED, STAMPED envelope 
to:NEH Learning Museum Program 
Carnegie Museum of Natural History 
Carnegie Institute 
4400 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213
Name
Address
____Tickets @ $2.00 (under 18, $1) Leakey Lecture
Friday February 16, 1979
___Tickets @ $3.00 for all-day Public Forum_____
Saturday, February 17, 1979
Total:_____
For information, please call (412) 622-3282
Richard E. Leakey
Exploring Human Origins
Friday, February 16,1979 8:30 pm 
Music Hall,.Carnegie Institute
Also, a Public Forum with Richard Leakey and 
other researchers of human origins: Saturday, 
February 17, 9:00 am to 5:00 pm, Lecture Hall, 
Carnegie Museum of Natural History. 1
Presented by BECOMING HUMAN: The BioCultural Journey, a National Endowment for the 
Humanities Learning Museum Program.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22TARTANFebruary 6, 1979
Book for giving money awayNew moviemakers credited
There are three things you can do with 
money: spend it, reinvest it,or give it away. 
Robin Hood Was Right was written for the 
growing number of wealthy young Ameri
cans who are considering giving their 
money to projects involved in the fight for 
social and economic justice.
Robin Hood Was Right helps those with 
inherited wealth to come out of the closet. 
For many who grew up in the 1960s, be
ing rich contradicts their ideal of an equit
able distribution of wealth and power. 
Like some hidden deformity, the con
flict has threaded our lives with guilt, 
wariness, petty concealments and a sense 
of wasted energy. Breaking the awkward 
silence about money, which in many 
American families is more taboo than sex, 
is what this book is all about.
Written in a direct, conversational style, 
Robin Hood Was Right details how money 
can be given away most effectively. It 
provides practical information on tax 
laws, trust funds and financial consultants. 
Through a series of interviews with young 
heirs who have given away substantial parts 
of their foutunes, the book also describes 
some of the problems inherent in being 
rich and offers advice on such difficult 
matters as loaning money to friends, saying 
no, and remaining anonymous.
The message of the activists who col
laborated on this book is clear: Change not 
Charity. They contend that traditional 
philanthropy attacks the symptoms, not 
the causes, of social injustice. Thus, they 
support alternative philanthropy, which 
helps people challenge those who have 
power over them-neighborhood groups 
that push for better schools rather than 
scholarship programs for a few students; 
secretaries working collectively for better 
wages and working conditions rather 
than a management training program; 
activists pushing for neighborhood arts 
centers and theatres instead of an expen
sive opera house.
The Vanguard Public Foundation, which 
began in San Francisco in 1972, was 
the First of several alternative foundations 
now underway or in the process of being 
set up. Three chapters of Robin Hood Was 
Right are devoted respectively to Van
guard, Haymarket Peoples Fund of 
Boston, and Liberty Hill of Los Angeles-- 
how they were started and how grants are 
made.
For those who do not get involved with 
an existing foundation, Robin Hood Was 
Right describes how money can be given 
away without the isolation and frustration 
that so many have experienced. There are 
chapters on Setting Up Your Own 
Foundation',Finding Others In the Same 
Boat., and on called ''Making A Will 
which suggests how to avoid leaving yachts 
and hangups to your descendents.
What do you do if your money comes 
from corporations that are investing in 
South Africa or are polluting the environ
ment? One of the people interviewed in 
the book responds, Im not responsible 
for the sins of my forefathers, for how the 
money was made. I was just born. But I do 
think Im responsible for the future. 
Robin Hood Was Right points out that 
the most important thing is not where 
your money comes from, but what you do 
with it.
What can rich people who are thinking 
about giving their money away for social 
change do? Learn about the issues. One of 
Vanguards board members puts it this 
way: For someone whose life consisted of 
a New England Prep School, summers in 
Europe and and Ivy League College. . . 
after youve seen a cooperative food store, 
a rent strike in action and the housing 
conditions in ghettos, you can never again 
quite believe that whats good for General 
Motors is good for the country.
Robin Hood Was Right is available at a 
cost of S5.00 and can be ordered from 
Vanguard Public Foundation. San Fran
cisco.
by Mr. Jack Valenti, President,
Motion Picture Association of America
Like an enchanting Muse, FOCUS sum
mons the young and talented to the pursuit 
of the art of the film. It provides and en
tices them with incentives and prizes and 
awards. This is an altogether laudable and 
worthy enterprise .worthy of acclaim and 
support by all who believe the motion pic
ture, at its best, occupies and deserves 
equal place and esteem with its sisters of 
drama and literature and the other arts.
None of civilizations forms of artistic 
expression could long survive without 
drawing into itself the irradiating contribu
tions of the young and talented. As a med
ium of vast popular appeal, the film has a 
particular need of continuing reinvigoration, of new ideas, new insights and ex
panding techniques.
In the past five years more doors have 
been opened and more are opening perhaps 
than in any other time except in the longago heyday of the Hollywood studios 
which trained directors, writers, actors, 
cinematographers, through the extensive 
production of short subjects. This produc
tion for the theaters is all but gone, sad to 
repoTt.
Qualified newcomers are wanted and 
welcomed. I emphasize quality, not num
ber. The decline in film productionfewer 
than 100 movies were started last year by 
companies of the Motion Picture Associa
tion of Americahas correspondingly 
shrunk the number of potential jobs.
Many of those who have come into 
movie production are graduates of the pro
liferating college and university film 
schools around the country. Others first 
gained experience in making their own 
films; others came from amateur theatrical 
companies in their home communities. The 
sources are varied and wide.
1 have just made a compilation of a few 
who have directed or written their first or 
second features. Among them let me men
tion:
Directors: Karen Arthur, 35, The Mufu 
Cage; Jonathan Deeme, 34, Citizens 
Band; Jermy Kagan, 32, Heroes, The 
Big Fix; Philip Kaufman, 34, Invasion of 
the Body Snatchers; Randal Kleiser, 30, *
Grease; John Landis, 27, Animal 
House.
Also, Steve Rash, 34, The Buddy Holly 
Story; Matthew Robbins, 34, Corvette 
Summer: Paul Schrader,*31, Blue Collar, 
Hard Core; James Toback, 33, Fin
gers; Claudia Weill, 31, Girl Friends; 
Robert Zemeckis, 27, I Wanna Hold 
Your Hand.
Writers: Paul Brickman, 29, Citizens 
Band; Nancy Dowd, 28, Slap Shot, and 
story credit for Coming Home; Barra 
Grant, 30, Slow Dancing in the Big City; 
William Lancaster, 30, Bad News Bears, 
and Bad News Bears Go to Japan; Vicki 
Polon, 30, Girl Friends; Patricia Resnick,
32, A Wedding and screenplay for 
Quintet; W.D. Richter, 29, Invasion of 
the Body Snatchers;
Also Thomas Rickman, 32, Hooper; 
Judith Roscoe, 29, Wholl Stop the 
Rain; Alan Rudolph, 30, Welcome to 
Los Angeles; Paul Schrader, 31, writing * 
and directing American Gigolo; Joel 
Schumacher, 29, Car Wash; and Michael 
Weller, 36, Hair:
The opportunities are available. Not all 
who are talented will find the jobs they 
want, but talented young persons will find 
jobs in filmmaking. The passage is paid in 
ability, in sweat, in initiative, in seizing ev
ery opportunity to gain experience, in unshirted persistence. There is no easy, magic 
way. Dont wait for someone to seek you 
out. Make yourself wanted because you 
have demonstrated talent to offer.
coming...
WELCOME TO THE JOB MARKET
j
vwIswt1 0wt .A.tusdoW2
SPECIAL THIS WEEK
Whats your best bet in today s marketplace? What 
can you expect from your first job? Need it be a nineto-five one? These and many other questions related 
to entering the job market will be discussed in this 
issue of Insider the free supplement to your 
college newspaper from Ford.
Ford hopes these tips about what awaits you in 
the job market will help you start your career off on 
the right track. And if youre in the market for a 
new car or truck, we also hope youll check out the 
great lineup of 79 Fords.
Look for Insider" 
Fords continuing series of 
college newspaper supplements.
0\o
FORD
FORD VISION

---------------------------------------------------

February 6, 1979-TARTAN-Page 23
Black Week Begins; 
Celebrates HistoryLUNCHEON
This year Black Awareness Week " Cel
ebrates February, Black History Month" 
from Sunday, February 11 to Sunday, 
February 18. Like in past years, the Week 
has tried to include a variety of events 
jhat will expose and educate the campus 
and surrounding community to the Black 
experience. Previously, the minority organ
ization, SPIRIT, has sponsored the Week 
making it black run and almost solely 
black attended. This year, however, the 
Week functions as an external committee 
of Student Senate in hopes to make its 
appeal more widespread.
Although the Week is filled with inter
esting events, there are a few that stand out 
such as the appearance of Mark Lane, 
James Earl Ray's attorney and most 
recently of the Jonestown fame, and 
Dick Gregory, humanitarian, comedian,
and political activist, in a shocking dis
cussion of ''Who Killed Dr. Martin Luther 
King? This discussion has travelled 
across the United States and will make a 
stop at CMU on Tuesday, February 13 at
8 PM in the Skibo Ballroom. The talk is 
free and hopes to enlighten us all to the 
facts behind the facts.
Another highlight of the Week will 
be held Friday, Feb. 16., the annual 
Fashion Show Dinner/Disco. Featuring 
authentic African cuisine for the dinner 
and student models for the show, this 
event always proves a great success.
Below is a schedule of the entire Black 
Awareness Week schedule. According to 
Co-Chairman of the Week, James Pat
terson, "Our committee is very proud of 
' the events scheduled this year. We honestly 
hope everyone will feel welcome to come 
out and participate."
PITT JAZZ ENSEMBLE 
& POETRY READING
GREGORY/LANE:
BLACK AWARENESS WEEK 1979 
CELEBRATES 
BLACK HISTORY MONTH
Sunday, February 11; Noon; $2; Wherrett Room.
Featured speaker is Mr. Harvey Adams, 
President, Pittsburgh branch of NAACP. 
Mr. Adams will kick off an NAACP mem
bership drive.
Monday, February 12; 8 PM; Ballroom;Free.
Who Killed Dr. King?
I did not kill Dr. Martin Luther King, Dick Gregory and Mark Lane will apJr., said James Earl Ray in an impassioned pear in the Skibo Ballroom on Tuesday, 
plea to Ambassador Andrew Young. I February 13, at 8:00 PM. The lecture is 
am writing to you...because you said there free, 
pre political prisoners in America...I ask 
you to meet with President Carter and ask 
him to request that I be given a trial.
KUNTU REPERTORY 
THEATRE
FASHION SHOW/DINNER 
DISCO
ART EXHIBIT
OZANAM STRINGS
TALENT SHOW
Tuesday, February 13; 8 PM; Ballroom; Free.
Dick Gregory and Mark Lane (James Earl 
Ray's attorney) give a lecture entitled: 
Who Killed Dr. Martin Luther King?
Thursday, February 15; 8 PM; Ballroom; Free. 
Pittsburgh theatre group.
Friday, February 16; 7 PM; Ballroom; $6-single, 
$ 10-couple. Hair and make up done by 
professionals; student models. African 
Dinner.
Friday & Saturday, February 16 & 17;Free. Faculty 
Lounge. Friday - 11 AM to 11 PM 
Saturday - 1 PM to 6 PM
Sunday, February 18. 2 PM Ballroom $.75 
Youth orchestra.
Friday, February 23; 7 PM; Ballroom; $1.50-advance
$2.00-door
James Earl Ray was sentenced to 99 
years for murder after he allegedly con
fessed to having killed Dr. King. But 
Ray claims that he did not confess of his 
own free will...that, he did not kill Dr. 
King...that he was used, moved around 
the country, paid substantial sums of 
money, directed to buy a rifle and to 
report to Memphis on April 4, 1968.
Did he do it? Did James Earl Ray, 
as the government claims, conspire to 
kill, and then kill Martin Luther King, 
Jr. on his own, with no help or outside 
influence? Was he railroaded into 
confessing a crime he did not commit, 
and then sentenced illegally with no trial?
Mark Lane is one of America's foremost 
authorities on assassinations. He is the 
author of the best selling Rush to Judg
ment, the scathing indictment of the 
government's investigation of the John F. 
Kennedy assassination.
'Dick Gregory is a critic, author, recor
ding artist, lecturer, actor, human rights 
activist, social satirist, political analyst, and 
philosopher, who combines all of these 
roles to serve the cause of human liberation 
and to alleviate human suffering brought 
on by ignorance and apathy.
Together they have created an enligh
tening, controversial discussion, Who 
Killed Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.? This 
shocking presentation of slides, tapes, in
terviews, and films has traveled extensively 
across the nation and will stop at the Carnegie-Mellon campus as a part of this year's 
Black Awareness Week. The week is pub
licized as a time to expose and educate the 
campus community of the black ex
perience in America. According to CoChairman of the Week James Patterson, a 
sophomore, We're very proud to have got
ten Gregory and Lane here to speak. I've 
heard Gregory before and he is truly a 
dynamic man; the campus should definite
ly enjoy him. And Lane, aside from his Dr. 
King ties, was also present in Jonestown at 
the time of all that confusion. Both men 
are very influential and a pleasure to have.
WRCT-FM 8&3 PRESENTS
Ttte \NcKEt>i NSRp BUT 
NOT TOTfcU-Y INHUMAN
fttkL PARM)I5EWHAT5YOUR
HOOR OK TWO OR THREE 
62-1-^726 or 578-2^&&3 V/eDNBSDftYS <tf2or|0+lPCrt+'S ONLY INTELLECTUM. or rtoReTALK SHOW

---------------------------------------------------

Page 24-TARTAN-February 6, 1979
Candidates Evaluated
by Frederic J. Siegel
While there exists a great deal of uncer
tainty in American politics today, one fact 
remains sure. The Presidency of the United 
States is still the most sought after political 
office in the world. Never has there been a 
job that so many people have desired and 
so few have actually attained. With Pres
ident Carter past the half way mark of his 
first and possibly last term, there are al
ready ten Republicans who have declared 
an interest in running for the GOP nomin
ation in 1980.
Its interesting to ponder ever why so 
many otherwise successful political leaders 
seek this office. When you remcve the pres
tige element from the Presidency, what 
you have is a relatively low paying job with 
long hours and the demands from a press 
and public that is rarely ever satisfied. In 
fact, there are even a lot nicer places to 
live in Washington besides The White 
House. By running for the Presidency one 
also risks the possibility of losing and then, 
in addition to a great debt, fading into po
litical obscurity. Of the current field of ten 
Republicans, only one can win the nomina
tion and that candidate will have to face 
either the tough incumbent or another for
midable challenger.
The following is a list of the ten most 
likely persons to secure the GOP Presiden
tial Nomination in 1980.
1. Senator Howard Baker (Tenn.) As one 
of the most well-known and respected Re
publicans in the Senate, Baker is the curr
ent favorite to secure the nomination. His 
expertise in foreign and domestic policy 
coupled with his popularity, good looks 
and keen wit makes him the most likely to 
succeed.
2 .Ronald Reagan (CalJ Despite his age and 
the fact that he lost the nomination to 
Gerald Ford in 1976, Ronald Reagan has 
the national recognition, political exper
ience and perseverance to pose as a very 
serious challenger to Howard Baker.
3. President Gerald Ford (Mich) Although 
he hasnt expressed a fantastic interest to 
return to the Oval Office, President Ford 
could present a formidable challenge. He 
has the experience, party connections and 
nationwide recognition that is essential for 
initiating a strong campaign. The question 
remains as to whether or not he wants to 
sacrifice his celebrity status for a stab at 
making America strong again.
4. John B. Connally (Texas) This former
governor wants the Presidency badly but 
Howard Baker presents too many reasons 
why it is impractical to nominate this man. 
While he has the potential to be a good 
campaigner, Mr. Connally will still fac the 
problem of being remembered for standing 
trial on charges of accepting a bribe from 
an association of dairymen. Even though 
he was found not guilty of the charge, Mr. 
Connally enters the race under that handi
cap. He should pose no threat to Howard 
Baker.
5. Rep. John Anderson (III) While he cer
tainly has the intelligence and energy to 
initiate a strong campaign, Anderson has 
neither the party support nor the public 
recognition necessary to present a very 
serious challenge.
6.Governor Jim Thompson (III) Thompson 
will have the same problem as Anderson. 
Not enough exposure and very little party 
support. He is a darkhorse at this point, 
but we all saw in 1976 how a darkhorse 
can sometimes beat the spread.
7. Senator Bob Dole (Kansas) Dole has 
very little chance of securing any nomina
tion in 1980 because he is simply not Pres
idential material. Many feel that his addi
tion to the Ford ticket caused the defeat
the GOP faced in 1976. Dole is not good 
looking and is not widely recognized. De. 
spite his desire for the Presidency, Dole 
will have to try to remain happy as a Senator from Tennessee.
8. George Bush (Texas) Diplomat George 
Bush could be the dark horse that Jimmy 
Carter was in 1976, but his lack of partvf 
connections will make him certainly less 
formidable as a candidate. Rather than 
taking the number one spot on a GOP 
ticket in 1980, George Bush could very 
well wind up as the Vice Presidential 
nominee.
9. Rep. Phillip Crane (III) Having gained 
the reputation of being the most conserva
tive member of the House, Phillip Cranes 
candidacy has pretty much been taken as 
a joke. Although he was the first one to 
announce his intentions to run, he poses no 
threat to any of the front runners.
10. Bernard Fernandez (Cal) Who the hell 
is Bernard Fernandes? This obscure Cali
fornia Republican is a declared candidate 
but is as much of a joke as Phillip Crane. 
Even among Californians, this man remains 
anonymous. He would hare to be a million 
to 1 longshot. In American politics that 
means his chance is a big fat zero.
Exploring Talent Sought
A membership organization which 
promises to match appropriately qualified 
adventurers with expeditions being formed 
daily in all parts of the world is the brain
child of two recent college graduates.
Several months ago we began compil
ing resumes of individual registrants who 
wish to place themselves on call, hoping 
to put their interests and talents to practi
cal use in the field, explains Chris White, 
one of the directors of Expedition Re
search an Annapolis based organization.
There is a terrific need for people with 
interests ranging from archaeology to scuba 
diving to zoological research. We put them 
in touch with expedition organizers who 
have registered with us.
Many people, students and recent gradu
ates especially, who have the qualifications 
and interests which are needed, simply do 
not know how to advertise their skills and 
availability. Although we cannot advertise 
for them directly, we will release their re
sumes, and any other information about 
them which is provided to us, to all regis
tered expeditions which are in the forma
tion stage,  says Stout. We are now ac
cepting requests from expeditions world
wide. Organizers are able to see at a glance 
the qualifications and references of a varie
ty of individuals. Those whose interests 
and/or training meet the needs of the spec
ific expedition may then be contacted dir
ectly.
The two mens mountaineering experi
ence led them to realize the need for an or
ganization such as Expedition Research.
Students, either undergraduate or post
graduate, are in demand. They gain field 
experience by working with professors and 
scientists involved in their field of study. 
One interesting fact we have discovered, 
says Stout, is that many people are not 
aware of the number of exploratory and 
research oriented projects that are being 
formed each year. In my field, for exam
ple, hundreds of expeditions are organized 
yearly in North America, alone.
Around the country there are other 
groups which provide a service of placing
individuals in adventure or field-education 
oriented trips. Usually, the price tag for 
such an adventure ranges from $500 to 
$1000. Registration with Expedition Research costs $15. (In fact, individuals are 
sometimes paid to assist professors in the 
field or to join expedition teams).
In many cases it is not only expedition
ary types who use the services of Expedi
tion Research. Consider, for example, the 
whitewater guide service which requires 
expert boatmen, the oil exploration com
pany in search of a petroleum geologist, 
the magazine publisher looking for a 
photojournalist who is experienced in nordic skiing, or the forest products company 
requesting an entomologist who wouldnt 
mind parachuting into the wilds of British 
Columbia ... all of these could benefit 
from the services provided by Expedition 
Research.
Individuals or expedition leaders inter
ested in registering should write: EXPEDI
TION RESEARCH, INC., P.O. Box 467R, 
Annapolis, Maryland 21404
hello? Expedition Research-ore you 
open on Sundays ?
Sex Discussed From the Inside Out
by Susan Borg
What happens during sej Thats when
I write my shopping list, was the answer 
of one woman. I think most of us would 
agree that this isnt true of everybody, and 
according to Debbie Smith of Planned 
Parenthood, the answer will be different 
for everybody asked. In fact, the same 
thing cant happen every time. Why? Be
cause sex  not just intercourse, but any 
kind of interaction - is between two 
people and physical and emotional respon
ses vary, depending on many things.
If the same thing doesn't happen every 
time, why is it that couples who have been 
together for years complain about a lack of 
variety? Well, that is probably due to the 
fact that they know each other so well that 
they can tell how their partner will respond 
in certain situations, at certain times. Many 
couples are remedying this by improving 
the variety. This can be done by sharing 
fantasies and acting them out, for example. 
Anything that you both agree to, and are 
comfortable with is okay in lovemaking 
says Smith.
This is how Debbie Smith aroused her 
audience during her lecture on February 
1st. Her direct and casual manner immed - 
iately put all the nervous and embarrassed 
faces at ease. She then proceeded to tell 
the physiological story of our bodies dur
ing sex.There are three stages in the genital 
reaction to stimulation, in both males and 
females.
First there is the resting stage. In a fe
male this means that the uterus, that.usually lies sideways, begins to change posi
tion. In a male, erection begins, and the 
testes begin to rise up closer to the body .In 
both sexes, heartbeat and breathing rate 
increase.
The next stage is the plateau stage. In 
a female, genital skin modeling takes place. 
This means that the genital area will turn 
from its normal color to, in some cases, a 
deep purple. This is a result of increased 
blood in the area. Very often skin all over 
the body becomes flushed. At this point, 
the vagina swells and a plateau develops in 
the lower third. The clitoris becomes un
bearably sensitive and retracts under its 
hood. Lubrication begins between 10 and 
30 seconds after the first erotic thought. In 
a male, the testicles increase 50 ?.and pull 
up close to the body. The penis is now at 
its fullest erect stage, and the Cowpurs 
gland secretes fluid.
Ms. Smith accompanied her description 
with crude (not immoral  simple) 
blackboard drawings of each stage. The fi
nal stage is the big O, orgasm, which is 
said to be the most pleasurable sensation 
in sex. In a male orgasm, sperm is ejac
ulated at & second intervals (3-7 spurts, 
average). A female experiences muscle con
tractions also at .8 second intervals. At this 
point all lubrication stops and both male 
and female enter the refractory period.
The refractory period is the reason be
hind the fact that women can have multi
ple orgasms while men cannot. The male 
refractory period is very short, therefore 
he must go through all three stages to reach 
a second orgasm. A woman, on the other 
hand, has a long refractory period. She can 
become excited very quickly and reach or
gasm without rebuilding all three stages 
The final phase of the lecture was on 
sexual dysfunctions  when all of the 
above things dont happen properly, or at 
all. The most common problems are with 
women who are having difficulty reaching 
orgasms. A majority of men dont h#e 
problems reaching orgasms, but most 
women do. Another common problem is 
premature ejaculation  ie. ejaculation be
fore a man or his partner are ready.
Sexual dysfunctions are sometimes 
physically caused, but most of the time 
they are psychological. These problems can 
usually be treated at sex clinics with a co
operative partner. Ms. Smith recommends 
reading The New Sex Therapy, by Heleri 
Kaplan Singer or, in paperback^ Pictoria 
Guide to Sex Therapy, by the same author 
All through the lecture the audience was 
attentive and asked many questions. This 
was probably due to the fact that this was 
the fourth sexuality lecture and peopk 
weren't as uncomfortable as they were ini 
tially, and Ms. Smiths manner was condtf 
cive to opening up and asking questions

---------------------------------------------------

Tartans trample Terriers
by David Brandwene
Forward Larry Hufnagel scored 12 of 
his team high 16 points in the second half 
and pulled down 16 rebounds to lead CMU 
to a 5949 home court victory over Hiram 
on Saturday afternoon. The win snapped 
the Tartans' two game losing streak and 
pushed their record to 6-2 in the PAC with 
six games remaining.
Carnegie-Mellon executed poorly in the 
early stages of the first half as they had 
trouble penetrating Hiram's tough zone 
defense. The Tartans trailed by a score of 
19-10 with just 7 minutes to play in the 
half but then struck for an 11-3 scoring 
murt enabling them to go into the locker
Icemen split
by Peter Puck
Last weekend, the CMU hockey team 
was handed its' first league defeat of the 
season, when they split games with Penn 
State-McKeesport, in a ''home and home" 
series. The loss occurred on Saturday by a 
score of 5-3; however, on Sunday, the 
pucksters retaliated and won, 9-5.
In the first game, Penn State scored 
twice in the first period; once earlier in the 
period and once later on. CMU got onto 
the scoreboard midway through the period 
when Mark Licata won a face-off and 
passed to Frank Carter who fired it-home 
for the score.
In the second period, both teams scored 
twice. For CMU, Jeff Peters tallied with 
passes from Matt Maddelene and Frank 
Carter. What proved to be the Tartans' last 
goal of the game was scored by Mark 
Jonatti, assisted by Skip Wallace.
Penn State scored their fifth goal in the 
final period, and that's how the game 
ended, with a score of 5-3, the Tartans 
suffering their first league loss.
On Sunday, in the second game, the 
Tartans entered Penn State's K.S. Nevin 
Arena with visions of gaining revenge over 
the Lions in their minds. In the first 
period, there were four goals, three of 
which were CMU's. Matt Meddelene 
scored with passes from Jeff Peters and 
Dave Olisar. The next goal was scored by 
defenseman Dan McDade, who had an 
impressive total of four points for the 
night, with the help of Mark Jonatti. 
Twenty seconds later, Mark Jonatti bent 
the twine with passes from Dan McDade 
and Tom Grimm.
Statistically, the second period ident
ical to the first, CMU scored three, Penn 
State once. Don McDate scored his second 
goal with an exciting end to end rush. 
Later in the period, Jeff Peters scored with 
assists by Dave Olisar and Frank Carter. 
Mark Licata, who also had four points, 
capped the period with an unassisted 
goal.
In the final period, both teams scored 
three times. Newcomer, Damon Burke, 
scored with a pass from Mark Licata. 
John Levison took passes from Skip 
Wallace and Mark Licata, to score for 
CMU. The Tartans' ninth and final goal 
came off a rebound from Don McDade's 
shot, with Mark Licata again taking the 
honors.
The two game series was highlighted 
with excellent goaltending by starting 
goalee, Dave Tozer. Most of the season 
the Tartans had been alternating three 
goalees; Dave Tozer, Jan Brodsky, and 
Scott Schaffer. First year coach, Bill 
Miller has lifted CMU hockey from its' 
cellar dwelling years by instilling a 
winning attitude in the team, who now 
rests atop first place. The Tartans' next 
game will be on Saturday, February 17 
when they will face Indiana University at 
Lakevue Ice Rink, gametime set at 1:00.
room behind by only one point, 22-21. 
Buddy Hobart scored 10 of the team's 21 
first half points to keep his team within 
striking distance of the Terriers.
CMU completely dominated early 
second half action as they outscored Hiram 
21-9 in the initial ten minutes of the half 
giving them a 42-31 advantage. At this 
point in the game, the Tartans went into 
their "4 corner" offense which enabled 
them to break the game open and take a 
57-40 lead with only three and a half 
minutes left on the clock. Hiram then 
countered with a tough press which created 
quite a few of CMU's 20 turnovers and cut 
the margin of victory to ten points.
Hobart finished with fourteen points 
and nine rebounds while center Dave Hofmeister accounted for eight points, five 
assists, and twelve rebounds giving he and 
Hufnagel a total of twenty-eight rebounds
which was two more than the entire Hiram 
team total.
CONFERENCE NOTES
The win ups the Tartans' conference 
record to 6-2, their only two losses suffer
ed at the hands of Allegheny College on 
January 27, and more recently, to W&J on 
January 31. The Tartans will face John 
Carroll on Wednesday, February 7, at 8:00, 
at John Carroll.
Allegheny's strong showing thus far is 
the result of its high powered offense, 
presently number one in the conference 
loop, while the CMU defense-also ranked 
number one-has helped the Tartans pre
serve their winning ways.
Larry Hufnagel retains his lead in the 
scoring race, as does Allegheny's Eric 
Lindberg in the rebounding department. 
Jim W'heeler, Lindberg's teammate, leads 
in assists.
Joe Belechak climbs the ladder for two.
Women drop two
by Stell
The Carnegie-Mellon University wom
ens basketball team suffered a double sel 
back this week. On Wednesday night they 
traveled south and found the going rough 
against a tough and confident Washington 
and Jefferson team. At one point the game 
was tied at sixteen but within minutes W&J 
had a commanding 41-25 lead. Poor pass
ing and numerous turn overs plagued CMU 
the whole game. The final score was 71-54. 
Scoring in double figures for CMU was 
Kassie Segmiller with 25 points. On Sat
urday Point Park came to the CMU gym 
with every intention of "getting even", and 
that they did. Tech beat Point Park back
on January 13 th by the score of 54-53. On 
Saturday it was much the same story ex
cept when the final buzzer sounded Point 
Park was one ahead. The final score was 
65-64. CMU played its best game of the 
season despite suffering their third loss. 
There were four players in double figures. 
Kassie Segmiller had 20 points along with 
17 rebounds. Shari Burton poured in 13 
points and pulled down 19 rebounds. Terry 
Preskar contributed with 15 points and 
Alex Allen had 14 points. This week the 
Women have two tough road games. On 
Wednesday night the girls play Carlow and 
Saturday they tip off against Cal State.
Indoor track news
by Nina Houska
Seven members of Carnegie-Mellon's 
indoor track team competed in Pitt's 
Indoor Invitational Track Meet, January 26 
and 27, against mainly division one and 
two teams.
This is the first of five scheduled meets 
for the team. The remaining meets will be 
at Slippery Rock and will, also, include 
schools from other divisions.
Dave McDaniels ran a 6.7 sec race in 
the 50 yard High Hurdles in his first run 
over college hurdles.
Larry Gordon placed sixth in the 880 
with a time of 1:57.9. Gordan also par
ticipated in the two-mile relay with 
teammates Jay Simmons, Josh Medvin. 
and Craig Woolheater. They ran to a 
sixth place finish.
Simmons turned in a 2:03 in the 880. 
Steve Faloon and Medvin competed in 
the two-mile with Faloon turning in a 
time of 10'12. Medvin ran a 4:32 mile as 
well.
Sophomore Dario Donatelli, an honor
able mention All American and all All East 
cross country runner broke his own CMU 
record in the three mile run last Saturday 
at the big Pitt Invitational Indoor meet. 
His time of 14:23 eclipsed his old mark of 
14:26 set last year. Dario took fourth place 
in spite of a severe foot injury which oc
curred during the race.
Larry Gordon, 1:57.8 in the 880 and 
Dave McDaniels, 6.7 in the 50 yard hurdle 
also performed well.
Although CMU's distance team, which 
was the converence championship in cross 
country this fall, is among the best in the 
country, CMU needs much help in the 
sprints and the field events. Coach Meekly 
says, "We won the PAC championship in 
cross country. With a little help, we could 
win it in track."
A meeting of all those interested in try
ing out for the track team will be held 
Tuesday, February 13th at 5 PM at Donner 
Hall.
Dave Hoffmeister tips one in.
IM news
Intramurals this week include: Basket
ball, standings posted, please note winners 
of the games on score sheet. Bridge, it is 
not too late to enter a bridge team. Please 
call bridge commissioner Tim Larkin at 
TX for info, 682-9580. Bridge league 
games start next week. Handball, 
schedules are out, league play starts this 
week, games will be played at 7:30 to 10 
PM, Monday thru Thursday, Commissioner 
is David Alexander 578-2691. Water Polo, 
finals will be played this week. Water 
Basketball, this is the last call for teams, 
turn in roster by February 8 at 4:30 PM. 
Wrestling, practice times are posted on 
IM bulletin board, practice starts Feb. 5, 
Monday thru Friday at 7-8 PM in the Blue 
room in the gym, Commissioner is Marc 
Poland KE 683-2958. Sports coming up 
are table tennis for single and doubles.
Fencers win
by Rich McCague
Last Saturday, the third, Oberlin college 
and W.V.U. raided the campus looking 
for victims in fencing. They found few. 
The men's team extended their hard-won 
undefeated season to 3-0, while the 
women's team fenced very well against a 
tough field. Led by Moms (Julie) Cohen, 
the women are fencing better than their 
1-2 record shows. The Epee squad led the 
way, going 144, with Jonny McGraw going 
6-0. The foilists cut themselves a consistant 12-6 score for the day, and then 
watched Daddy McGraw's pyrotechnics. 
The Sabre team fought as they never have 
before. The women's foilists beat WVU's 
team handily, but were passed Oberlin in 
strong combat. It is too bad that the 
unorthodox W.V.U. team forgot to bring 
their Sabre people. With the three schools 
competing, and with one exception, four 
squads per school, there was a total of 14 
squad bouts on Saturday. The team 
extends an invitation to any and aU 
members of the campus community to 
come watch their fine Fencing Team, any
time the team goes into combat.
important intramural Board Meeting: 
Thursday, February 8, 12:30 PM in the 
IM office room 104, gym. Please plan to 
attend this very important meeting.

---------------------------------------------------

Editor's Note: The following is a memo 
from Mr. Banner, Athletic Director.
Because of the complaints about people 
failing to follow the handball court rules, it 
has become necessary to change the reser
vation procedure.
Starting Friday, February 2, 1979, be
tween 12:00 o'clock and J.00 o'clock, the 
sign-up sheets will be in the equipment 
room located outside the door to the 
swimming pool.
The procedure will be as follows:
Sign up (bet. 12:00-1:00) Friday for 
Saturday, Sunday, Monday.
Sign up (bet. 12:00-1:00) Monday for
T uesdav.
Sign up (bet. 12:001:00) Tuesday for 
Wednesday.
Sign up (bet. 12:00-1:00) Wednesday 
for Thursday.
Sign up (bet. 12:001.00) Thursday for 
Friday.
The courts will be available at the 
following times:
Mon.-Fri., 7:30 AM-10:30 PM (ex
cept for assigned Phys. Ed. classes).
Sat.Sun., 9:30 AM-4:30 PM.
All players must leave the courts after 
their hour of play.
THEREiS * DIFFERENCE!
CEDAR POINT UVE SHCW*
PERFORMERS
MUSICIANS
TECHNICIANS
Tech Interviews 1 00. Auditions 2 00
MORGANTOWN, WV 
Wed., Feb. 14
Holiday Inn 
l-79/Star City Exit
PITTSBURGH, PA 
Thurs., Feb. 15
Marriott Inn 
l-279/Greeritree Exit
AKRON, OH 
Fri., Feb. 16
Holiday Inn. East 
1-76/ Gilchrist Road
Also at Cedar Point 
Sat . Feb 10. Sat . Feb 17 
minimum age 18 
FOR OTHER AUDITION SITES 
AND FURTHER INFORMATION 
CONTACT: LIVE SHOWS
MOicEDUCATIONAL 
CENTERS
ESSEX HOUSE LL2 
Corner of Negley & Centre 
Pittsburgh 15206
TEST PREPARATION 
SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938
Visit Our Centers 
And See For Yourself 
Why We Make The Difference 
Call Days, Eves & Weekends
661-2772
Do You Play Baseball?
CMU Has a Baseball Club
We play a full schedule 
spring and fall against 
varsity teams from area 
colleges.
To find out more, come to:
Skibo Room 11, 
Thursday, February 8,
7:00 PM
Engineering & Computer Science Majors
BEFORE YOU PICK UP YOUR DEGREE, PICK OUR INTERVIEW.
Contact your placement office 
for interview dates.
:HUGHES:
i i
__________________________________iCreating a new world with electronics
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER M/F
GO SOMEPLACE ABROAD 
THIS SUMMER
SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY
offers study and travel opportunities in 21 summer programs abroad. 
Applications due March 1st.
LONDON:
Shakespeare, Filmmaking, History of Costume, Masterpieces of the Visual 
Arts, Studio Art, Visual Communication* Photography, Law, Transportat
ion & Distribution Management.FLORENCE:
Architecture, Studio Art & Sy naesthetic Ed., Humanism & the Arts :n 
Renaissance Italy, Psychology.VIENNA:
Architecture, Music, German Language, Culture & History.AMSTERDAM:
Biology, Lav & Public Policy.YUGOSLAVIA:
Organization & Management in a Worker-Owned Economy.EAST AFRICA:
History & Evolution of the Kenyan Nation.GREECE:
Classical Geology.
Ail courses offer UX semester credits for undergraduates, graduates * practicing professionals. For more information please contact Syracuse University. Division of International Programs Abroad. 336 
Comstock Ave., Syracuse. N.Y., 13210, tel. (315) 423-3471.
ACTUARIAL 
SCIENCE FORUM
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7,1979
7:00 P.M. 
BREED HALL  MARGARET MORRISON
Learn about the Actuarial Science program at Carnegie-Melton University and your career opportunities 
as an actuary. Three Fellows of the Society of Actuaries 
will speak about their profession and will answer your 
questions concerning an actuarial career. 
Materials about the program at CMU will be 
available at the meeting. 
For additional information about the Forum call Don 
Balenovich, Actuarial Science coordinator at 578-2151. 
Refreshments will be served.

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTS^CLASSIFIED ADS -------
Beginning Feb. 19Mini-Courses Coming
Registration - Feb. 8
mm^mmtrnrn..AJiJ
Classified Announcements:
Deadline, Wednesday, noon. Rate - $.10 
word. Address all classifieds to TARTAN 
Business Manager.clubs
classified
ATTENTION DORM RESIDENTS: The
SDC Booth Committee is looking for inIF YOU HAVE NOT YET BOUGHT A
YEARBOOK-YOU CAN STILL GET 
ONE! On sale at the Skibo Information 
Desk.
DO NOT wait until you fall behind in your
terested members. If you'd Like to be a part work. FREE TUTORING is available in
Studio Apt.  Grad student only, quiet.
Security-locked building. $160 month in
cludes utilities. Call 682-5000, ask for Bob.
Models wanted for haircutting class and
photography. Apply in person. Philip 
Pelusi, 1814 Murray Avenue, Squirrel Hill 
and the Bank Center, downtown. 
FOR SALE: Barrecrafters locking ski
racks, $30; KS "two skis w/Salomon 444 
bindings $70; misc hi-per formonte small 
block mopar parts; coffee brewer $15. Rick 
361 -7454.
Contact lenses found on Forbes Ave. bus
stop near Skibo. Call 578-2645, ask for
Dan.
Help Wanted. The Computation Center has
a part-time position available for a clerical 
assistant. For more information, contact 
Jill Diskin at x2639.
Help Wanted. One Work-Study Student for
general office work (typing, filing, running 
errands, etc.) in the Electrical Engineering 
Department Office. Must be available to 
work Wednesdays AM and/or Wednesdays 
PM. Contact Sharon Johnson, HH 110, 
x2454.
Wanted: A few dedicated, interested funloving students willing to spend the Labor 
Day weekend in the wilds of Western PA 
with next year's freshmen. Pay: Nonexist
ent. Rewards; Endless. Freshman Camp 
Counselor Applications are available NOW 
at Skibo Desk, Morewood Desk, Donner 
Desk and 206 Warner Hall. Applications 
are due Thursday Feb. 15 at 206 Warner 
Hall.
Position Available immediately. Miscella
neous duties in biology laboratory special
izing in genetics and biochemistry. As
signed work will be commensurate with 
previous experience. Hours flexible. Call 
or see Dr. O'Donnell, Room 279, Mellon 
Institute, Ext. 3245.
GAYLINE. . . Raps, referrals, information
on Homosexuality. Dial 241-2550, 6:30- 
8:30 PM, Tuesday through Saturday 
The Girls Downstairs. . . you can dance on
our ceiling anytime you want. . . The guys 
in Woodlawn 8.
To the Guys in 8 Woodlawn  we prefer our
of this years Booth Committee contact 
Carolyn Welty x4437 or Mindie Jo Snyder 
x4039.
Spring Carnival Committee will meet Wed
nesday, February 7, 1979 at 6:00 PM in 
Room 33 Skibo. Any student interested in office hours Tuesday, 1:30 to 3:30 PM. 
working with Carnival should come to the The Communication Skills Center offers
meeting or contact the Skibo desk. individual instruction for students at ail
The Student Senate Rules Committee levels and in all colleges who need help
most CIT, MIS, and AMS courses, as well 
as some H&SS courses. Stop in the Peer 
Help Center, Baker Hall 150-A to sign up 
for a tutor.
John Crecine, Dean of H&SS, holds open
meets every Sunday afternoon at 3 PM in 
Skibo Rm 13. Any matters concerning Stu
dent Senate policies, constitution or regula
tions are the areas of responsibility of this 
committee. In addition, this committee is 
the first step towards forming a new organ
ization. The public is invited to discuss any 
of the above issues with the committee.
The Finance Committee of Student 
Senate meets Thursdays in Skibo, 
Room 13 at 7 PM. Meetings are open 
to the public.
MIS STUDENTS: We need your input! Tell
us what's on your minds! Student Senate 
cannot work without the studentsso get 
writing! Send compliments, complaints, 
ideas, and information to your senators: 
Mike Inners Box 850 Donner
Bev Rubanoff c/o History Dept.
Fil Alieva Pi Lambda Phi
Bob Zimmermann Pi Lambda Phi
Also we would like to plan a meeting for 
the MIS constituency. If you have any sug
gestions please let us know.
ATTENTION all CIA members there will 
be an important CIA meeting on February 
6 at 7:00 PM in the Morewood Rec. Room. 
Please be there.
The Society for Creative Anachronism, a
medieval reenactment group, will meet on 
Wednesday, Feb. 7, in Skibo Room 11 at
There will be a slide show, "The Unicorn in 
Captivity." New members are encouraged to 
attend.
There will be a meeting of the FUSION
CLUB on February 6 in Skibo Room 11 at 
7:30 PM. Anyone interested is urged to at
tend.
general
dancefloor. (We've pot the stereo; you bring DORMITORY RESIDENTS: Information
concerning Room Draw/Retention is being 
distributed this week by your R.A. If you 
have not received a copy, please see your
the wine?) . . . The girls downstairs 
Molly 
Unspoken words 
of mine 
cannot be.
Unless we take the time.
Herbie
CMU AIESEC meets every Wednesday
| at 4:30 PM in Skibo 11. The campus com
munity is welcome.
R.A. or stop by the Housing Office. 
ATTENTION SENIORS!!!!! Collection of
senior portrait proofs will take place Feb
ruary 12, 13, 14, Room 33 Skibo. FOR 
THOSE SENIORS WHO WERE NOT PHO
TOGRAPHEDThe photoqrapher will be 
back the week of February 19 to take pic
tures and retakes. Signups will be the week 
of February 12.
with any aspect of writing. You can get 
tailor-made programs focused on specific 
writing and thinking skills, help in prepar
ing and revising assignments, help with 
research projects, applications, and 
resumes, and computer-assisted instruc
tion. Call or come in to make an appoint
ment with a faculty member. 161 Baker 
Hall, x2924, Monday through Friday
9 AM to 4 PM.
Mr. Harvey Adams, President of Pitts
burgh's chapter of the NAACP,wi!l be the 
featured speaker at Carnegie-MelIon's Black 
Awareness Week luncheon Sunday, Febru
ary 11 in the Wherrett Room at 12 noon. 
Mr. Adams will kick off a campus wide 
NAACP membership drive that will continwe throughout the month. Tickets are 
$2.00 and limited to the first thirty people. 
For tickets and more information phone 
Cheryl Goodman x4418.
The Pittsburgh Scottish Country Dance 
Society will hold its regular class on Fri
day, February 9 at 8 PM at the First Pres
byterian Church in Wilkinsburg. New
comers are welcome to attend. For more 
information and possible help with trans
portation, call Robin Drake at 421-7179. 
The Pittsburgh Country Dance Society 
will sponsor a Valentine's Day Dance Party 
from 8 to 11 PM on February 16 in the 
Stephen Foster Memorial on 5th Ave. The 
admission fee of $2 will benefit the English 
Nationality Room at the Cathedral of 
Learning. For more information call 963- 
9495.
The City of Pittsburgh, Department of
Parks and Recreation will conduct a thir
teen week Lifeguard Training Course for 
city residents 16 years of age and older. 
This 39 hour course, designed to train fu
ture lifeguards, places concentration on 
four major areas: Advanced Lifesaving; Op
eration and Sanitation of the Pool; Organ
ization and Administration? and Program
ming at the Site. Participants who success
fully complete this course and fulfill the 
necessary requirements are eligible to apply 
for Civil Service employment as lifeguards 
at the City of Pittsburgh swimming pools. 
Participants in the Lifeguard Training 
Courses are expected to supply their own 
bathing suits, towels, bathing caps and 
textbooks. There is no fee for registration
or instruction. For more information, con
tact the City of Pittsburgh, Department of 
Parks and Recreation Swimming Pool Di
vision at 255-2378, or the Oliver Bath 
House at 431-9650.
The 1979 campus campaign of the United
Jewish Federation of Greater Pittsburgh is 
underway. All young Jewish people inter
ested in working in the campaign are re
quested to contact the Hillel office at 621- 
8875. Upcoming campaign events are: 
February 10Israeli film night,9 PM, Hillel 
lounge
February 19, 20, 21Telephone solicita
tion nights
February 24Israeli coffee house, 9 PM, 
lower lounge of Schenley Student Un
ion at Pitt
Interested in a camp job or want to learn
more about Jewish social service work? 
Come meet with Mr. Arie Gluck, Director 
of the UAHC Harlam Camp in Pa., on 
Wednesday, Feb. 7 at B'nai B'rith Hillel 
during the day. A film depicting camp life 
will be shown at 8 PM in the B'nai B'rith 
Hillel Lounge, 315 South Bellefield Ave. 
Please call the Hillel office for more infor
mation, 621-8875.
scholarships prizes
The Institute of Hebrew Culture and Edu
cation at the New York University School 
of Education, Health, Nursing, and Arts 
Professions, will offer fellowships for the 
1979-1980 academic year for study leading 
to the M.A., Ed.D.,and Ph.D. degrees. The 
deadline for applications is April 1. The In
stitute's graduate program is designed to 
train teachers, scholars and researchers in 
fields of Jewish knowledge including the 
Bible, Hebrew literature, Jewish history 
and philosophy. The curriculum is geared 
toward preparing students for careers in 
teaching, library and museum service, 90- 
cial service and group work. Awards will be 
based on faculty evaluation of each appli
cant's undergraduate academic record, po
tential and motivation for grackiate and 
professional work. Further information 
may be obtained by contacting Prof. Nath
an H. Winter, Director, Institute of Hebrew 
Culture and Education, New York Univer
sity, 637 East Building, Washington 
Square, New York, N.Y. 10003, or by 
calling (212) 598-2824,2826.
Artist? CMU student? Work with plant 
themes? The Hunt Institute for Botanical 
Documentation, Hunt Library, would like 
to consider your work for an exhibition 
of student art in the Hunt Library Pent
house. Any medium is acceptable, as 
long as the subject is plants. Entry forms 
are available from John Brindle or James 
White in the Penthouse. Selection will be 
made in conjuction with the Department 
of Art. For more information, call x2440.

---------------------------------------------------

upcomi&g eve&ts
AB Coffeehouse Committee will be pre
senting a night of student entertainment, 
on February 9 at 9:30 PM in the Wherret 
Room. Maxine Lapidus, a comedienne will 
be opening both sets with imitations, jokes 
and songs. Georga Osborne, a sophomore 
voice major will perform a variety of songs 
with piano accompaniment, and Karen 
Stein a junior in H&SS will sing blues mus
ic and play the guitar. This event is free 
and open to the campus community. Re
freshments will be served.
FEBRUARY 8 at 6, 8:30, 11 PM 
A RAISIN IN THE SUN in DH 2210 
Admission is .75 with ID $l/without.
This eloquent drama starring Sidney 
Poitier, Ruby Dee, and Claudia McNeil, is 
a story of a Chicago South Side Family 
with their hopes, dreams, frustrations 
warmth and humor. With the power of an 
expected insurance bequest each member 
sees the money as a means of realizing 
dreams and escape from their trapped lives.
FEBRUARY 9 at 6, 8, 10, 12 PM 
THE REVENGE OF THE PINK 
PANTHER in DH 2210 Admission is $1/ 
with ID $1.25 without.
Peter Sellers is at it again in the latest 
Pink Panther movie. This time he plays the 
master of disguise as he tries to find his 
own murderer.
theater...
CMU's Departments of Drama and Mus
ic will present the musical theatre produc
tion West Side Story, February 8-10 and 
1217. Performances will be held at 8:20 
PM, with two Saturday matinees at 2:00 
PM; in the Kresge Theatre. For more in
formation, call the CMU Box Office: 578- 
2407.
The Pittsburgh Public Theatre will 
present Vanities opening January 31 and 
Ashes opening February 6. Their reper
tory plays will run thru March 4 with per
formances Tuesdays, Wednesdays and 
Thursdays at 8 PM, Fridays and Saturdays 
at 8:30 PM , and Sundays at 7 PM. There 
will also be some matinees. For more in 
formation and reservations call 765 3500.
The Pittsburgh Laboratory Theatre will 
present Edward Albees The American 
Dream from February 2 thru March 10. 
Curtain times are Thursdays and Sundays 
at 8 PM and Fridays and Saturdays at 8:30 
PM. For reservations call 621-2876.
DiCesare-Engler Productions will present 
the Broadway show Chicago at the Stanley 
Theatre on February 8, 9, 10 and 11. Tick
ets range from $6 to $12 and are on sale at 
National Record Marts, Kaufmann's and 
the Stanlev box office.
Camelot Production Company will pre
sent the romantic musical fantasy, Brigadoon, for twelve performances beginning 
February 2 through February 25. Perfor
mances will be at the Plaza Theatre, 4765 
Liberty Avenue, at 8:30 PM on Fridays 
and Saturdays, and 7:30 PM on Sundays. 
For reservations call 683-7770.
Theatre Express will present Assassins 
January 18, 19, 20, 21, 25, 26, 27, and 28 
and February 1, 2, 3, 4, 8, 9, 10 and 11. 
Curtain times are Thursdays, Fridays and 
Saturdays at 8:30 PM and Sunday matinees 
at 2 PM. For reservations call 621-5454.
Electra and The Searching Satyrs will 
be presented by Chathams drama depart 
ment on February 9 and 10 at 8 PM in the 
Eddie Theatre. The event is free and open 
to the public.
The Kuntu Repertory Theatre will per
form in the Ballroom on February 15 at 8 
PM. Admission is free.
The premiere production of Gertrude 
Stein's 1930s libretto A Lyrical Opera 
Made By Two with an original score by 
William Turner will be directed by Tom 
Hearn for Theatre Express 5th production 
of the 78-79 season. Previews start Febru
ary 16th with an opening marked for 
March 8th. For more information, call 621- 
5454.
The Pittsburgh Playhouse will present 
Neil Simons Last of the Red Hot Lovers 
opening January 18. For more information 
call 621-4445.
Open auditions for the classic comedy 
Tartuffe, or the Impostor by Moliere will 
be held February 6 at 7:30 PM in the 
South Campus Theatre, Community Col
lege of Allegheny County, West Mifflin, Pa. 
The play requires five women and seven 
men, and auditions are open to members of 
the comunity at large. Performances are 
scheduled for March 30, 31, April 6, 7. No 
preparation is required for these auditions, 
and additional information may be ob
tained by calling 469-1100, ext. 390, Tues
day through Friday, 10 AM to 4 PM.
ci&ema...
FEBRUARY 10, SDC Presents:
The Man at 6, 8, 10 and 12 PM.
James Earl Jones, Martin Balsam, 
Burgess Meredith. James Earl Jones de
livers a sensitive performance as Douglass 
Dilman, the first black president of the 
United States. The movie will be shown in 
DH 2210. Admission is .50 with ID/ $1 
without.
This weeks movies in the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse Film Repertory are: February 6, 
Coming Home; February 7, The Passenger; 
February 8, F.I.S.T.; February 9, Interiors; 
February 10, A Clockwork Orange; Febru
ary 11, Love and Death; and February 12 
The Greek Tycoon. There are two show
ings nightly at 7:30 and generally 9:30 PM. 
For exact time of second show call 621- 
4445. All seats are $2.
The City of Pittsburgh Department of 
Parks and Recreation will present The 
Lady Eve on February 8 at the Schenley 
Ice Rink. For more information call 225- 
2354.
Husbands by John Cassavetes will be 
shown February8 at 8 PM in the Carnegie 
Lecture Hall. Admission is $1.
San Francisco, one of the early special 
effects films, will be shown February 10 at 
2:30 PM in the Museum of Art Theatre. 
Admission is $1.
An American in Paris and Meditation on 
Violence will be shown on February 11 at 
7:30 PM in the Carnegie Lecture Hall. Ad
mission for both films is $1.
music...
CMU and Pittsburgh Flute Club will 
present a Flute Recital with Wendy Webb, 
Flutist on February 11 at 8 PM in the Alum
ni Concert Hall. This recital is free and op 
en to the public.
The Pitt Jazz Ensemble will appear along 
with a poetry reading on February 12 at 8 
PM in the Ballroom. Both events are free 
and open to the campus.
Andre Previn will conduct the Pittsbrugh Symphony at Heinz Hall on Febru
ary 8, 9, and 11. For time and ticket infor
mation call 281-8185.
On February 18 the Ozanam Strings will 
appear in the Ballroom at 3 PM. Admission 
is $1.50.
Sha Na Na will appear at the Stanley on 
February 16 at 7:30 PM, February 17 at 
7:30 and 10:30 PM and February 18 in a 
matinee, time to be announced. Tickets are 
$6, $7 and $8 on sale at National Record 
Marts and Stanley box office.
WDVE and DiCesare-Engler Productions 
will present an evening with Stephen Stills 
and his band March 24. Tickets are $9.75 
on sale at National Record Marts and the 
Stanley Box Office. For more information 
call 281-3700.
The Chamber Singers, Max Peterson 
conducting, will perform in the Alumni 
Concert Hall on February 6 at 8 PM.
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra, 
Victoria Bond conducting, will perform 
works by Beethoven, Bartk and Dvorak in 
a concert free to City of Pittsburgh resi
dents on February 6 at 8 PM in Heinz Hall. 
Tickets are being issued from the City De
partment of Parks and Recreation, 400 
City-County Building.
Pianist Helen Gossard, associate profes
sor of music at CMU, will present an allBeethoven recital on February 11 at 3 PM 
in Alumni Concert Hall. The concert is free 
and open to the public.
On February 7 the Cleveland Quartet 
and Judith Burganzer, oianist, will perform 
at the Pittsburgh Jewish Community Cent
er at 8 PM. For more information call 521- 
8010.
February 13, the 415 Players (Larry 
Kiefer, recorder and baroque oboe, Tom 
Frankenberg, viola da gamba, and Richard 
Stern, harpsichord) will perform a recital 
of baroque chamber music with violinist 
Eugene Phillips at 8:30 PM in Pitts Frick 
Fine Arts Building in Oakland. Admission 
is free to the public.
The Pittsburgh New Music Ensemble 
will give a concert on February 11 at 8 PM 
in the Chapel, Chatham College. The event 
is free and open to the public.
The Y Music Society features a recital 
by the Cleveland String Quartet on Wed
nesday, February 7 at 8:00 PM in the Oak
land Jewish Community Center, 315 S. 
Beliefield Ave. The program will feature 
quartets by Mendelssohn, Debussy, and 
Beethoven.
The CMU chapter of the Music Educa
tors National Conference has people avail
able for giving private instrumental and 
voice lessons. For more information, write 
to MENC, c/o Music Dept., CMU, Pgh., 
15213, or call 521-0420 after 6 PM.
art...
L. Ke, K. Hull and P. Rosner will display 
drawings and illustrations at Forbes Street 
Gallery from February 6 through Sunday 
12 to 4 PM and Tuesday thru Thursday 7 
to 9 PM.
The collection of Dr. and Mrs. 
Raymond Goldblum will be on display in 
Gallery D, Museum of Art, Carnegie In
stitute from January 25 thru March 11. 
Museum hours are Tuesday thru Saturday 
10 AM to 5 PM and Sundays 1 to 6 PM
The Associated Artists of Pittsburgh's 
69th Annual Exhibition will open Febru
ary 9 in the Heinz Gallery of the Museum 
of Art, Carnegie Institute. The exhibit will 
run thru March 15 with Museum Hours 
being Tuesday thru Saturday 10 AM to 5 
PM and Sundays 1 to 6 PM.
There will be an art show in the Faculty 
Lounge on February 16 and 17.
Winning photos in the Natural World 
Photo Contest will be on'display in the 
Changing Exhibits Gallery of Carnegie Mu
seum of Natural History. The exhibit will 
remain through March 18.
The Pittsburgh Print Group will present 
its juried Winter Show of members' prints 
at the Arts and Crafts Center, Fifth and 
Shady Avenues, from January 27 - Febru- ' 
ary 18, 1979. The exhibit is free and open 
to the public. For more information call 
Debbie Turici at 761-0439.
Reflections from the Third Day-Photo
graphic Revelations of Plant Designs will 
be on display from November 20 thru Feb
ruary 16 in the Penthouse of Hunt Library. 
The exhibition can be viewed free of 
charge, Monday thru Friday, from 9 AM 
to 5 PM.
China Trade Porcelain from the collec
tion of Mrs. James M. Schoonmaker, Jr. 
will be displayed in the Treasure Room 
thru May 13. Gallery times are Tuesdays 
thru Saturdays from 10 AM to 5 PM and 
Sundays from 1 to 6 PM.
Photographs from the permanent collec
tion will be exhibited in the Ground Floor 
Corridor from February 8 thru May 3. 
Gallery times are Tuesdays thru Saturdays 
10 AM to 5 PM and Sundays from 1 to 6 
PM.
etc...
CMU Student Projects will be on dis
play in the Entrance Gallery of the Mu
seum of Art, Carnegie Institute from Feb
ruary 1 thru April 1. Museum hours are 
Tuesdays thru Saturdays 10 AM to 5 PM
and Sundays 1 to 6 PM.
Erica Jong will give a poetry reading at I 
the International Poetry Forum on Febru- ] 
ary 14 at 8 PM in the Carnegie Lecture 
Hall. Student tickets are $2.25.
The Nikolais Dance Theatre returns to 
Pittsburgh for its second appearance in 
Heinz Hall on February 10 at 8 PM. Tic
kets are available at Heinz Hall, Gimbels 
and Kaufmanns. For more information 
call 355-0330.
The Silver Eye is sponsoring spring pho
tographic workshops and lectures at the 
Manchester Craftsmens Guild, 1719 Buena 
Vista St., Northside. The first master work
shop will begin on March 9 and the con- I 
eluding one on May 18. For more informa
tion, contact Robert C. Cornelius, 687-. j 
7122.
There will be an art exhibit,Ribbon 
Paintings, by A. Lynn Forgach in the 
Jennie King Mellon Library Gallery. The 
preview is February 11 from 4 to 7 PM 
with a lecture by the artist on the 12th at
2 PM. Gallery times are February 13 
thru 25: Tuesdays thru Thursdays, 2 to 5 
PM; Fridays, 2 to 5 and 7 to 9 PM; and 
Saturday and Sundays 2 to 5 PM.
The Les Ballets Trockadero de Monte I 
Carlo, a zany dance comedy group, will 
perform at Heinz Hall February 13 at 8 
PM. Tickets are $8.50, $7.50 and $6.50. 
For more information call 281-8185.
The American Danc Ensemble of Point 
Park College will present Graduation Ball 
on February 16, 17 and 18. Performances 
are Friday 8 PM, Saturday 2:30 and 8 PM, 
and Sunday 2:30 PM. For tickets call 621- 
4445.
There will be a fashion show and dinner | 
dance on February 16 at 6 PM in the Ball
room. Tickets are $6.
CALL 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A
