?crz"UlENAJ
?
VOL. VII. NO. 22EVOL.IN. 2LGANASA. WM P.D,LW5WI1- 9NAAGUSOI,- 9.LLG15CVLNVBVOD, H- RHT
e.GANLI,WSG. MVN5G AW
GDWO. V MN.5m IWV5T
GENEVA SWAMPED, 51-19.MUSICAL CLUBS HOME CONCERT
Remarkable Basket Ball Game.
Criswell Elected Captain.
In one of the most remarkable bas
ketball games ever seen in this dis
trict, the Varsity defeated the West
inghouse Club at Wilkinsburg last Fri
day. The losers failed to make a sin
gle basket from the floor, securing 
their 10 points on fouls. The game 
was fast and rough, but full of the 
excitement that makes the floor game 
interesting to spectators. At the end 
of the first half neither team had 
scored a field goal, but the home team 
was in the lead 5 to 3. For the first 
ten minutes of the final period, the 
advantage was exchanged as fouls 
were called on players of first one 
side, then the other. With Westing
house leading, 10 to 8, Colvin set the 
crowd crazy by caging the first bas
ket. Immediately after, on splendid 
passing, the ball was brought under 
the basket and Heisel tossed the 
sphere through the net,. Metheny 
turned the trick again, and three min
utes later Heisel scored the fourth 
and last basket- Both teams played 
hard and well, but no man starred in 
particular. Douthett played better in 
the second half than in the first, prob
ably doing the best work. Metheny 
and Colvin also were in the whirl
wind finish to advantage. Criswell 
had his hands full with Hansell, who 
was twice his size. All of the shoot
ing was hurried, or from long range, 
accounting for the lack of success.
The line-up:
Carnegie15. Westinghouse10
Criswell ...............F.......................... Irvin
Metheny...............F.............. McCarthy
Colvin ...................C...................... Brown
Heisel ..................G.................... Hansell
Douthett .............G...................... Bassett
Field goalsHeisel 2, Colvin, Meth
eny. Foul goalsCriswell, 7 out of 
IS; Colvin missed 1; Irvin 10 out 20. 
Score, first halfW. C. 5C. I. T3. RefereeHeinrich.
The new catalogues were ready for 
distribution on Tuesday. Much of the 
contents has been rewritten, and the 
new equipment added in the past year 
included. A description of the cours
es in the School of Music and the 
night course in Commercial Engin
eering have also been addedThe student directory is not includ
ed in the general catalogue this year 
but in a separate publication. These 
will be ready for distribution in a 
few days.
In a whirlwind finish, that covered 
every member of the plaid team with 
credit, Tech defeated Geneva by a 
one-sided score of 51 to 19. At no 
time during the game did Geneva 
have any chance of winning. Geneva 
tried to play a close guarding game, 
but the Tech players kept them on 
the jump the entire game.
The team work of Tech was excep
tionally fine, there always being a 
man to get the ball. Geneva on the 
other hand seemed to lack the fine 
coaching that Tech has displayed all 
year.
Colvin was the star basket shooter 
for Tech, displaying his old time form 
which has seemed to be lacking most 
of the year. He succeeded in caging 
ten field goals, mostly all from close 
rangePark, a letter member of last falls 
football team, but now attending Ge
neva, played an exceptionally good 
game closely guarding Metheny all 
the time.
The game was well attended, being 
the last game of the season. The 
dance that followed was enjoyed by 
every one present. Every one seemed 
to be in a jolly frame of mind, and 
had a happy time until twelve oclock, 
when the lights went out.
After the game the team elected 
speedy little Criswell to pilot them as 
Captain next year. The Tartan wishes 
him all kinds of success.
The line-up:
Carnegie51 Geneva19.
Criswell ..........-F...............................Todd
Metheny ...............F..................... Dodds
Colvin....................C........................ Quay
Douthett .............G....................... Clyde
Heisel .................G......................... Park
SubstitutionsWilliams for Cris
well, Henning for Douthett, Connell 
for Heisel. Downey for Clyde.
Field goalsFirst halfCriswell 2, 
Metheny 2, Colvin 7, Douthett 2, Hei
sel 1, Todd 1, Dodds 2.
Foul GoalsCriswell 1 out of 4, 
Dodds 1 out of 3.
Total Field Goals  Criswell 5, 
Metheny 3, Colvin 10, Douthett 3, 
Heisel 2, Williams 1, Todd 3, Dodds, 4.
Total Foul GoalsCriswell 1 out of
4, Metheny 2 out of 5. Dodds 5 out 
of 7-
RefereeFinnessy. Timekeeper 
Kline.
Excellent Program Rendered Before 
Appreciative Audience
ANOTHER LIVELY TERPSICHOREAN COMING.
Loosen up your kopeks. We must 
sell you a Thistle. Two dollarsTWO BITS.
For the sum of twenty-five cents 
you can have your name placed on 
your Thistle in gold-leaf letters.
Just Another Name for a Hen of a 
Time. Do you Fall?
On March 12, the Musical Clubs 
presented their Annual Home Concert 
to one of the most appreciative audi
ences that ever filled Carnegie Music 
Hall. The climax of development 
had surely been reached for it was 
the best concert ever given by any 
Carnegie Music Clubs since they were 
organized. The stage was beautifully 
decorated with palms, which formed a 
harmonious back ground for the first 
half. The scenery of the second was 
a bedroom in a college dormitory. The 
furnishings for this scene were gener
ously loaned by Joseph Horne and 
McCreery & Company. When the 
large asbestos curtain rose, the clubs 
were lounging in the room, singing 
and playing impromptu songs. The 
brilliancy of the Promenade during the 
intermission equalled any similar func
tion ever held in Washington or New 
York.
The Glee Club was at a great dis
advantage because of the absence of 
the Miller Brothers of the Varsity 
quartet, who had to withdraw two 
days before the concert on account of 
the death of their father. Their place 
was filled by the Hodgdon Brothers of 
the 1910 Varsity Quartet.
The best hits of the Glee Club were 
the Cavaliers Song, by Werrenwrath, and Swing Along by Cook. 
Both of these songs are 1912 copy
rights and the Glee Club received 
special permission from the publish
ers, G. Schirmer, to sing these songs 
in public. The sketch by the octette 
of the Glee Club was the hit of the 
first half. This sketch was new and 
much more elaborate than the one of 
last year. The Mandolin Club closed 
the program of the first half, with 
Lucia di Lammermoor, by Doni?etti.
The second half of the program, al
though not as long as the first, was 
equal to the first in every way. The 
combined clubs gave the Barcarolle 
from Tales of Hoffman, which was 
received so enthusiastically that the 
clubs had to respond with an encore, 
Moonlight Bay. The Sextette of 
the Mandolin Club gave Hungarian 
Dance by Brahm. The last feature of 
the program was the Alma Mater, by 
Taylor, of the School of Applied De
sign. This is the Alma Mater that 
has been adopted for the time by the 
Glee Club.
The officers of the clubs are R. M. 
Crawford, president; X. A. Hollister, 
manager; L. A. Orrill, publicity manContinued on Page 6.
Call up that Best Dancer I Know 
right now and tell her she is engaged 
for the evening of Friday evening, 
March 28th. Manager Beeken has ar
ranged for a Tennis benefit dance to 
be held in the Gym on that evening 
as his only outside source of income 
during the season. I know and so do 
you that you have an extra seed 
stowed away that is just waiting to 
be invested toward a good purpose 
and such a good time. Just remember 
also that tomb-stone fronts will be 
conspicuous by their absence. Speak
ing about other things, too, there will 
be a good orchestra present and a 
nice big bowl of punch, replenished 
at intervals, will be behind the door 
so that no one will see how many you 
take. Oh yes; we almost forgot to 
say that there will be twenty dances 
beginning with the first which is to 
start at nine oclock (that is a more 
fashionable hour, you know).
After mentioning this dance as the 
only outside source of income it might 
be well to say also that it will be 
about the only one inasmuch as the 
Athletic Association is in no shape, 
nor has it been, to finance the Tennis 
Team so that its manager can arrange 
a schedule in keeping with the quality 
of the players. With this under your 
chapeau make haste to purchase the 
admission ticket and then our team 
can take its proper place among the 
neighboring institutions.
ALUMNI OFFICERS TO HOLD 
DINNER.
The Board of Governors of the 
Alumni Association are to hold a spe
cial dinner and meeting at the Hotel 
Schenley on the evening of Saturday, 
March 15th. Director Hamerschlag 
has been invited to attend as a special 
guest.
SONG CONTEST.
The song contest ends March 31. 
This means that all competition must 
be in before that time. Now, it be
hooves every student to get some 
Pep and grind out some songs that 
are songs. Get busy and dope out 
one that everyone can sing, hum, 
whistle, or play on the hurdy gurdy. 
We can and must have a real live 
Tech Song, so
Sing, Brother, Sing!!!
Tennis DanceAt the Gym.Friday, March 29.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE TARTAN
THE TARTAN
Published weekly by the Undergraduates 
of the Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
Business communications should be 
addressed to the BUSINESS EDITOR; 
all articles and other communications 
should be sent to the EDITOR-IN-CHIEF.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
Yearly $1.00 5c per Copy
Entered in the Post Office of Pitts
burgh as second class matter.
PITTSBURGH, PA., Mar. 13, 1913.
BOARD OF EDITORS
Donald D. Mitchell, 13....Editor-in-Chief
G. Guy Kelcey, 14.............Business Editor
Charles E. Gilson, 14.............News Editor
C. B Kline, 13.....................Athletic Editor
Eugene Dowling, 09............Alumni Editor
Albert E. Ball, 13.................Science Editor
A. H. Good, 14.......................Design Editor
Guy Elliott, 13.................Industries Editor
Margaret H. Webb, 14.........
................................M. M. C. S. Editor
W. H. Searight, 15................
..........................Assistant News Editor
H. Knight, 15........................
.......Assistant to the Business Editor
Last year The Tartan ran a special 
Beanery Issue, which proved popu
lar with its readers- It has been de
cided to repeat and the first issue 
after vacation will be devoted to that 
purpose.
At a meeting of the Board of Control 
held Tuesday evening, the matter of the 
election of a manager for the Track Team 
to succeed Mr. Engstrom was taken up. 
After a full discussion of the case by the 
members .of the Board of Control and 
representatives from the Seannachie So
ciety and the Tartan, the following motion 
was unanimously adopted by the Board.
That Mr. Parry post a notice asking 
for candidates for the position of manager 
of the Track Team, the election to take 
place two (2) weeks from Wednesday, 
(March 12th), and that Mr. Parrys resig
nation take place upon that day.
As the Tartan stated last week it was 
exceedingly unfortunate that this matter 
arose at all. Since it did, the solution of 
the difficulty arrived at by the Board of 
Control, as shown by the above motion, 
should prove satisfactory to all concerned.
DUAL MEET WITH WESTINGHOUSE.
On next Saturday night, the Westinghouse Club will stand sponsor for 
a dual meet with our track team. Our 
relay runners were to have met them 
last Friday night, but their men failed 
to report, and the event was post
poned. The meet of this week will 
include the main events of an indoor 
carnival and will give all departments 
a chance to work out. As the open
ing of the out-door season is close 
at hand, most of the Tech men are 
anxious to prove what they can doThe Westinghouse Club, made up in
large part, by college graduates, has 
some fast men in its ranks, and will 
give our men a run for the places. 
They have a new indoor track banked 
all around the ends, which will aid 
the sprinters to set new records. The 
events that are scheduled follow:
30-yard dash.
220-yard dash.
440-yard run.
880-yard run.
One mile run.
Two-mile run.
One-half mile relay race.
Running high jump.
Running broad jump.
Pole vault for height.
PRACTICE ALL WEEK.
Kings of Diamond in Earnest.
Practice is called for every day next 
week for the baseball squad, starting 
at 10 oclock each morning- The num
ber of candidates is constantly in
creasing, and by the time the men 
are able to leave the gymnasium, there 
should be enough to make five teams. 
Outdoor work will be started as soon 
as the field dries out enough to be 
rolled, which should be within two or 
three weeks. The first game is less 
than a month away, if Manager Grotefends plans are fulfilled. He is try
ing to arrange a home game with Duquesne University for April 12. A 
schedule is being worked out for the 
second team, to include the best of 
the local school and amateur teams 
of the district. The ranks are still 
open for new candidates, and all re
cruits will be welcomed.
WHITE FRIARS AT WORK.
Book and Music Have Been Selected. 
Cast Will Be Picked Soon.
The White Friars are rapidly get
ting into shape for serious rehearsals. 
A snappy book with good music has 
been selected and the cast will be 
tried out and picked at the earliest 
possible time. The turnout for the 
cast is good with an excellent vet
eran showing, but somewhat small as 
to number.
We wish to invite all who want to 
try out for cast to be on hand at 
the rehearsals. The parts require 
vocal and dancing ability as well as 
the usual musical comedy brand of 
histrionic talent, but the characters 
are attractive as a field for Thespian 
ambition and the dancing numbers are 
simple if an early start is made. As 
far as possible we desire to have new 
men in the cast in order to develop 
a liberal spirit in the club which is 
essential to its success. Ability is 
at a premium however. The score 
gives us an extraordinary chance for 
musical features and the club desires 
to make the most of the opportunity. 
Those who can sing are welcomed, if 
their dancing be even moderately 
good. It must be remembered that 
all are eligible to make the show.
The sport of preparation for this 
performance is well worth any trouble 
connected with the rehearsals- No
tices of rehearsals are fully posted in 
all Schools and we urge cast men 
to come out. The chorus is selected 
and in training.
We may say for the benefit of pat
rons that ample notice will be given 
of the date and place of the perform
ances so that seats may be secured 
as early as is possible, and in this 
way ensure for the beforehand.
HOT H20? NO, NOT YET.
If we but had the vocabulary of a 
Shakespeare, the keen intellect of a 
Homer, or the daring spirit of a Cic
ero, we would surely say some mean 
and nasty things about our hot water 
system. Is it a joke or must we ac
cept the theory, that it freezes up 
during a slight drop in the temper
ature. Perhaps some element during 
the process of filtration finds its way 
into the water and possesses the prop
erty of absorbing the heat before it 
reaches the faucets.
NEW CATALOGUE.
Several Changes in the 12-13 Bulletin
The general catalogue for 1912-1913 
will soon be ready for issue. There 
have been several important changes 
in this publication which should be 
noted by all the students. The 
changes are as follows:
1. Change in entrance requirements
for the School of Applied Sci
ence.
2. The certificate method of admis
sion in the four schools in 
courses leading to degrees.
The list of names of the students 
of the Institute has been eliminated 
from the bulletin.
Instead of the pictures of the four 
schools and different views of the 
work in each school being in one 
book as heretofore, pictures of the 
four schools, each under separate 
cover, will be published in the near 
future.
In addition to the above publica
tions, the list of credits leading to 
degrees will be printedLISTEN.
The time is short. You must get 
your Thistle Receipt by March the 
fifteenth. Two more daysthe last 
chance.
HAVE YOU BOUGHT
Your Thistle? You have only until 
the fifteenth of March.
Editors Note*
We are very pleased to be able to 
print Mr. Engstroms letter giving 
his side of the case. Mr. Engstroms 
statement that we were not in pos
session of all the facts of the case 
is not so. We were in possession of 
the facts, since we had heard Mr. 
Engstrom present his side to the 
members of the seannachie Society. 
These facts do not alter in the least 
the position taken by the Seannachie 
Society or The Tartan, being quite 
beside the REAL question involved.
CORRESPONDENCE.
[The Editors of The Tartan are 
pleased at all times to receive com
munications from any member of the 
Faculty or student-body upon sub
jects of timely interest. Such articles 
as are deemed of sufficient interest 
will be published at the first oppor
tunity. Anonymous communications 
cannot be considered, but the names 
of correspondents will be withheld 
when so desired.']
To the Editor of The Tartan:
In view of your criticism, in the 
March 6th issue of The Tartan, re
garding the election of Mr. N. GParry as Track Manager, and not
withstanding your statement to the 
contrary, I do not think that you were 
in possession of all of the facts, and 
consequently have been somewhat un
just in your criticism.
On Wednesday, February 19th, at 
noon, Dean Leete told me to give 
up my position as Track Manager im
mediately. I hunted up the First As
sistant Manager to tell him to be pre
pared to take over the position. Find
ing that he was down in his studies 
I instructed him to see what he could 
do about arranging to raise them and 
let me know. Later he reported that 
he could make no arrangements for 
the removal of his conditions.
The regular monthly meeting of 
the Board of Control was scheduled 
for that evening and knowing that in 
the past it was almost impossible to 
obtain a quorum for a special meet
ing of the Board I deemed that im
mediate action was necessary. I 
looked up Mr. Franks, manager of 
last years team, in view of having 
him take over the work, but found 
that he preferred to have somebody else 
elected. I consulted Track Captain 
Crawford, who said he would let me 
know of anyone he could think of for 
the position. I also discussed the 
matter with Mr. McCulloch, Super
visor of Athletics. Later I again 
spoke to Captain Crawford telling 
him that I had to hand my resig
nation in to the Board that even
ing- He still had nobody to sug
gest for the position, and I felt that 
it was up to me to find a candidate 
whom I could recommend.
It was then that I approched Mr. 
Parry, knowing that he had had con
siderable experience as manager of 
both the football and baseball teams 
at his prep school, besides his work 
as Chairman of the Junior Prom Com
mittee, which received very favorable 
comment at the time. Shortly before 
the meeting I met Mr. Haaren, the 
present Football Manager, and told 
him of Mr. Parrys candidacy to which 
he offered no objection. Later I met 
Mr. McCulloch who thoroughly ap
proved of Mr. Parry as a candidate.
Up to the present time neither the 
President nor the Secretary of the 
Board has received any complaint re
garding either the election or method
When Making Purchases Mention THE TARTAN, jt helps.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN3
The Shape of Bottom 
NEW CUSTOM SHOE
STOEBENER
Man With Quality Shoes
6227 Penn Avenue C l p J
6222 Frankstown Avenue LL-ctol LLiIlLi
A NATIONAL INSTITUTION
Browning, King & Co.
CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS AND HATS FOR MEN, BOYS AND CHILDREN
439=441 WOOD STREET
City Office; East End Office;
631 Penn Avenue S- Highland Ave. and Baum Street
Oswald Werner & Sons Co.
Pittsburghs Oldest and Largest 
Dyeing and Cleaning Works
New Private Branch Exchange. Call Hiland 1138 
Main Office and "Works: Cor Bryant, St.Clair and Mellon Sts.
of, election of Mr. Parry from the 
dissatisfied parties, other than indi
rectly through Mr. Parry and your 
article in The Tartan.
THOR ENGSTROM.
PLEBE vs. FRESHMAN.
A first year man asks the question: 
Why are we called Plebes? Evi
dently he assumes the name is mis
placed. His supposition is founded 
upon two definitions. FirstA Fresh
man means a first year man in an 
American school, and secondly, Plebe 
means a vulgar person.
Websters International Dictionary 
is considered the most authoritative 
by the largest number of people. 
Therefore we will use .that in defin
ing the words. Freshman is defined 
as a novice, one in the rudiments of 
knowledge. A student during his first 
year, as in a college or University. 
Plebe is defined historically with re
lation to Roman Society, then the fol
lowing definitions are drawn: Plebe,
the common people, the populace, 
mob.
Both words are undergoing a for
mative period. Neither of them have 
a fixed general meaning. In specific 
application, however, when referring 
to schools, each means first year men. 
Freshman is usually applied to the 
first year man in colleges, college pre
paratory schools and universities. A 
University originally meant a collec
tion of colleges. Thus, with refer
ence to schools, the word Freshman 
is associated with the word college. 
High Schools, which are college pre
paratory schools, have their collection 
of Freshmenmere childrenlittle 
girls who wear little short dresses, 
and little boys with little shrill voices. 
In Normal Schools, Theological Semi
naries, Trade Schools and Technical 
Schools, first year men are often dis
tinguished by some other name. So 
the term, Freshman, is not universal. 
As far as the euphony of the words 
are concerned, it takes a very artistic 
ear to determine which is the most 
beautiful.
Numbers believe it is very appro
priate to call first year men novices, 
and to impress upon them that they 
are in search of the rudiments of 
knowledge, and must not dream of the 
finished article. Last fall a few green 
posters informed the incoming class 
of this fact. But the average first 
year man would rather be considered 
as one of the mob of the campus.
Considering the words in historical 
light, the word Plebe is far more com
plimentary than the word Freshman. 
During the formative period of the 
American Colleges, the word Fresh
man was created- The new men came 
fresh from their country homes. They 
wandered about the campus in search 
of lodging, rooms, and classes. They 
were novices in college work and 
ways. Many of them believed there 
was no place like home and that their 
little village school was the most en
lightened spot on earth. The older 
heads got together and decided these 
new men were Freshmen. If this
period of forming the American 
schools took place today the new men 
would act very much the same, and 
the older men would come to the 
same conclusions, but would probably 
express them in the medium of Amer
ican slang. Instead of saying, These 
are Fresh,1 they would say, These 
are green, and instead of the first 
class being Freshmen, would be 
Greenmen.
In the history of early Rome, so
cially the population was divided into 
three classes, the Patricians, or lit
erally, the fathers, the Plebes, or the 
class with restricted privileges, and 
the clients, or the servile class. Note 
that the Plebes were not considered 
as the mean, or servile, class. Their 
history is a heroic struggle to attain 
the highest social rank in Rome. This 
struggle began during the close of 
the first Monarchy about 494 B. C., 
and continued until about 50 A. DIn 59 B. C. a partician voluntarily be
comes a plebe to attain political as
cendency in preference to the dignity 
of ancient descent. Neither was birth 
a barrier in rising from the 
lower to the higher, society. 
While the patricians failed to 
honor other social bodies with this 
distinction, they for centuries recruited 
their own ranks from among the 
plebes.
The Carnegie Institute of Technol
ogy, however, did not adopt this name 
merely because of ancient associa
tions, but followed precedence. The 
name is applied to classes both in the 
Military Academy at West Point and 
the Naval Academy in Annapolis. 
There are but few young men who 
would not prefer a successful com
pleting of a years course in either of 
these academies to a years work in 
Yale or Harvard. It is fitting that
C. I. T. should have such a distinc
tion as a name like this. We are 
not a college. In a strict sense a col
lege is an institution for a liberal 
education and not for specializationA young man conies here, and enters 
like the Plebe of old, into a struggle 
for higher attainment. His conflicts 
are in white overalls among revolv
ing machines and with iron and steel. 
There is little in common between 
him and the black-gowned student of 
aesthetic culture, who studies Plato 
while strolling beneath quiet elms. 
The young man enters C. I. T. with 
the mob,the class with restrictive 
privilegest^ie class which is ques
tioned: How many will make good? 
and the class from which all others 
will be drawn. An evident similar
ity exists between yourselves and the 
historic class from which you receive 
your name. The similarity is more 
complimentary than a like compari
son with freshmen. Therefore, have 
you any reason for preferring the 
name Freshmen?
Wait for  IT-, April 10-11-12
MR. McCULLOCH MEETS WITH 
ACCIDENT.
Mr. McCulloch, Supervisor of Ath
letics, met with a very painful acci
dent in the gymnasium last Saturday 
afternoon- While doing some tumb
ling on a mat, he fell on his right 
ankle, causing a very bad sprain. This 
will necessitate the use of crutches 
for the next two weeks at least and 
the consequent withdrawal from ac
tive coaching of the baseball team for 
the present.
IT, April 10-11-12
PROF. THAYERS BOOK A DE
CIDED SUCCESS.
Second Edition Under Way*
The first edition of Vol. I of Prof. 
Thayers Structural Design, issued 
in May, 1912, has been so well re
ceived that it is nearly exhausted and 
a second edition is now being pre
pared. About 40 per cent of the sales 
thus far have been made in England, 
it is interesting to note. The first 
volume has received some very favor
able reviews, among other complete 
reviews by Prof. H. S. Jacoby, of Cor
nell, by Prof. George F. Swain, of 
Harvard, and president of the Ameri
can Society of Civil Engineers, and 
by Prof. Moore, of the Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology. This last 
review appeared in the Engineering 
News.
Prof- Thayer has also agreed to go 
forward with the work of writing the 
second volume, which will hardly be 
ready before January 1st, 1914. Prof. 
Thayer has also been requested to 
write for the Engineering Record an 
article taking up the application  of 
some of the laws of Spherical Trig
onometry to the plotting of diagrams 
for the determination of the angles 
occurring in skew structural work.
Monongahela House
J. B. KELLEY, Manager
European Plan
Pittsburgh, Pa.
1913
Derby and Soft 
Hats for Spring
-----------o-----------
It's time you gave your old 
hat a lift, change it for the 
snappiest style you ever wore.
-----------o-----------
Auihammer & Evans
6100 Penn Ave.
Open Monday and PhoneSaturday Evenings 1071 Hiland
Mellon Natiojia[ Bank
514 Smithfield Street 
409 Fifth Avenue
Capital and Surplus $7,800,000
When Making Purchases Mention THE TARTAN; it helps.

---------------------------------------------------

I
THE TARTAN
A NEW MUSICAL CLUB.
A new musical organization, which 
is open to all in all four schools, who 
are able to sing or carry a tune, has 
been organized. This club meets 
every Wednesday afternoon at 4 
oclock in the Assembly Room at M. 
M. C. S. All desiring to become 
members will be welcomedMr. McDowell is the leader of the 
club. The club was organized last 
Wednesday and the following officers 
were elected.* President, Mr. Frank 
Crawford and Secretary, Anna O. 
Bromley.
The Club is desirous of a large 
membership and expects to give a 
concert some time this year. We are 
sure that there are many singers who 
do not belong to either Glee Club. If 
you can sing, will you not join us?
BIOLOGY NOTES.
Why do the Juniors who are study
ing the frog in Biology, look sick 
when anyone mentions tapioca pud
ding?
 Twenty froggies went to school, 
Down beside a rushing pool, 
Twenty little coats of green,
Twenty vests all white and clean. 
Too bad that those froggies didnt 
stajr in their own school and not come 
to pay a visit, fatal to them and to 
us, to M. M. C. S.
Ora, to her stiff formaldehyded frog 
"Poor ittle froggie, did oo ever go 
awooing?
A laugh went around the tableOra then said, Well, its not funny, 
its tragic!
Nineteen little appendages; red or 
brown or green,
Margaret pulled a chela off and then 
there were eighteen;
Eighteen nice appendages, some were 
fringed with hair,
Ellen pulled the Telson off, seven
teen were there;
Seventeen appendages, some were 
hard as bricks,
Stelle pulled off the swimmerets and 
left just two times six;
Twelve appendages now left, four 
were walking legs,
All at once, they were pulled off by 
that strong hand of Pegs; 
Eight little appendages, mostly near 
the head,
Alma easily pulled out six, for the 
poor crayfish was dead;
Two little appendages, now left all 
alone,
Miss McKenzie threw them out, and 
we all went home.
Of all the unholy odors that some
times pervade the atmosphere of the 
school the most offensive came from 
the region of the Biology Lab. Thurs
day morning. Starfish! murmured 
a Plebe, delicately sniffing the air. 
Starfish nothing! retorted a Soph
omore indignantly, thats one frog!
their smiling faces, the M. M. C. S. 
basketball team passed the time in 
practice, which soon resulted in the 
demolition of an electric light globe. 
The damage done to the globe was 
slight compared to the destruction of 
the girls peace of mind. With an 
anguished cry they fled the building 
and it was only by the most patient 
coaxing that they were induced to re
turn and interview the picture man.
When invited to stop in the halls 
for a chat, when called to lunch by 
the gong, w'hen asked to stroll in the 
bright fresh air (?) at the noon hour, 
we hapless Plebes respond in unison: 
We would if we could, but we cant 
why? Because were history now.
Miss Stoner is teaching the Plebes 
a new dance which she calls the Stick 
Dance, but we call it the Spite Dance 
for the simple reason that any Plebe 
holding a grudge against her neigh
bor may, in the exciting moments of 
the dance, revenge herself upon her 
enemy. The Plebes are provided with 
sticks and are then lined up in two 
rows. The object of the dance is 
to rap your neighbor on the knuckles 
as many times as possible and in ac
cord with the music- Needless to 
say, some of the Plebes emerge from 
the fray with aching joints and a ruf
fled disposition.
One of the Plebes has the distinc
tion of not being able to distinguish 
between her hips .and the corners of 
a bench. For when given the com
mand: Hips firm! she wildly reached 
for the corners of the bench and held 
on for dear life.
If you want to receive a nice little 
shock that will break the monotony 
of life, just peep in the Biology lab. 
and see the cute little cats on the 
dissecting boards. We dread to think 
how many times they have been dis
sected before their nine lives went 
to heaven.
The basket ball game between the 
Plebes and the Juniors is one to be 
remembered, for it was only won by 
a long, hard struggle. Of course, the 
Plebes were th victors. That is only 
natural, seeing that Pichel, Menges, 
and McClelland did some star play
ing. Now, Sophs, we are ready for 
vou!
RELIEVED THEIR MINDS.
Wrhile waiting over at the Design 
School for the picture man to snap
Tech Students Discuss Traits of Their 
Instructors.
An evening that was crowded with 
good-natured knocks, throwing of 
bouquets and a statement of griev
ances, followed the inauguration of a 
popularity voting contest at the 
monthly smoker of the senior class of 
the School of Applied Industry, Car
negie Institute of Technology, at the 
Fort Pitt Hotel last Friday night, Feb. 
7th. The contest was staged for the 
purpose of determining who, in the 
estimation of the 40 members who 
attended, was the most popular, most 
learned, crankiest, wittiest, kindest and
The popular Belmont notch Collar
made in self striped Madras. 2 for 25cARR.OWC OLLARS
Cluett, Peabody & Co., Makers
i>cf)enlep &rt >l)op
3705 5th Ave.
Picture Framing that Pleases
Special college posters in 
Tech colors
Vi'C' -ViVhandsomest of the instructors, and 
students of the School. And every
one unloaded the burdens on their 
minds.
J- Clarence McCarthy was the honor 
guest of the evening, and spoke on 
The Spirit of Good Fellowship. Al
fred E. Hamilton, president of the 
class, presided, and the other speak
ers were Thomas Maxwell on Class 
History, and H. L. Sellors on The 
Tartan.
PLANS FINISHED FOR ADMIN
ISTRATION BUILDING.
Will be the Only One of its Kind 
in Any College.
The next addition to the campus 
will be the Administration Building. 
The plans have been finished and 
there only remain a few finishing 
touches to be added to the elevations 
before the design is complete. At that 
time the Tartan will publish a cut of 
the building with a more detailed ac
count.
The structure will be the only one 
of its kind in any college group, be
ing seventy feet square at the base 
and containing twelve stories with a 
total height of two hundred feet. It 
will be visible from any point in the 
park or in the Oakland district.
The building will house the offices 
of the administration, club rooms for 
the various student activities, the 
restaurant, club and recreation rooms 
for the students and faculty, and the 
student library. One floor will be de
voted to a course in pedagogics with 
the necessary lecture and class rooms. 
At the top will be an observatory 
which will contain the eleven inch re
fracting telescope, now in the physics 
laboratory of the science school.
The school will advertise for bids 
as soon as the specifications have been 
completed. It is expected that the 
building will be under construction 
by the latter part of spring.
Chocolates
BETWEEN FRIENDS
One of the few things that can come between friends. In fact the oftener it comes the better she likes it.
REYMERS
GOOD
CLOTHES
CHEAPER
Clothiers, Tailors,
Hatters, Furnishers
504-506 Federai St.f N* S.
Enterprise Pressing Company
Cleaners and Dyers
Perfect Work in Ladies Childrens and 
Household Work 
Oriental Rugs and Draperies a Specialty 
203 Highland Bldg. Pittsburgh, Pa.
Phones: Offiec 449 Hiland Works: 4912 Hiland
BUTTER, EGGS, 
COFFEE, TEAS,
POULTRY, ETC. 
ALL AT RIGHT PRICES
Oakland Butter Market
3714 FORBES STREET Phone 710 Schenley. ? We Deliver
Choice Lenten Delicacies
in ample variety at 
STEVENSONS STORES
606 Wood Street Down townHighland & Centre Aves. East End
Young Men
are cordially invited to join the BelleReld 
Presbyterian Church Chorus Choir. See
MR. MAYHEW 
at the church, cor. 5th Ave. and Bellefield 
Street Saturday evenings at 7:30.
Ice Cream and Cakes
Sold to Tech Students at special rates 
See us about the eatins for yourdoins
THE HALLER BAKERY
3618 Forbes Ave., Iroquois Block
Sporting Goods, Cutlery, College 
Pennants, Banners & Pillou) Tops. 
HUKILL=HUNTER CO.
414 Wood St.
Wait for IT, April 10-11-12
When Making Purchases Mention THE TARTAN, it helps*

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN5
General.
Personal Service.
The Worlds Work, March, 1913, p. 
601. By Edward Hungerford. The fac
tor of personal service in the Wells 
Fargo Express Company.
The Failure of the Levees. Nation, 
February 27, 1913. $140,000,000 has been 
expended for protection, yet the slight
est cause, a crawfish or an earthworm, 
may render these expenses useless. The 
plan of diverting the current as at the 
Assuan dam in Egypt, is attracting some 
attention as a substitute for levee-build
ing.
Some French Women Writers of ToDay, by Marie Louise FontaineThe 
Bookman, March, 1913.
The Labor of the Japanese Women 
Of all the labor done in Japan 34 per 
cent is performed by men and 66 per 
cent by women.La Nature, February 
15, 1913.
Jim Caldwell, Co-operatorThe 
Worlds Work, March, 1913, p. 578, by 
Frank Parker Stockbridge. Caldwells 
work in Lakefield, Minn., where he has 
organized grain elevators, a store, a 
bank, and a creamery into a successful 
cooperative business.
The New Balkan DiplomacyThe 
American Review of Reviews, March, 1913, 
p. 342. By J. Irving Manatt. A de
scription of the diplomats, Nenezelos 
and Danev.
Our Duty to Mexico,Nation, Feb. 
27, 1913, p. 196. Not intervention and 
bloodshed, but a peaceful application of 
moral pressure, is what the Mexican 
situation demands.
As I See the Way Out of Divorce, 
by His Eminence, J. Cardinal Gibbons 
Ladies Home Journal, March, p. 10. A 
fine statement of which is believed to 
be the greatest menace to our national 
institutions.
Preparing to Be a TeacherYouths 
Companion, March 6, p. 126. This ar
ticle on teaching and personality is the 
first of a series designed to aid those 
who are considering whether they shall 
teach school.
How Can the Spiritual Life be De
veloped, by Lyman AbbottOutlook, 
March 8, p. 524. A letter from Doctor 
Abbott to an unknown friend.
What He Lost, by Edward A. 
SteinerOutlook, March 8, p. 546. 
Worth reading for its rare insight into 
immigrant life on the East Side of New 
York City.
Delay in Recognizing ChinaLit
erary Digest, March 1, p. 448.
The Admission of IlliteratesLit
erary Digest, March 1, p. 442.
The White Slave DecisionLiterary 
Digest, March 8, p. 500. The most ad
vanced step yet taken by the Supreme 
Court in construing the powers of the 
Federal Government over interstate 
commerce.
Is Polar Exploration Worth While? 
by Theodore RooseveltOutlook, March
1, p. 485. An argument to show that 
the great risks and hazards are war
ranted by the end sought to be achieved.
Bath Tubs, Cash Registers, and the 
Trust ProblemOutlook, March 1, p.
476. A six-page editorial that should 
be read by every one interested in this 
great problem of economics.
Chinese Independence  Outlook, 
March 1, p. 470. The United States 
should immediately recognize formally 
the new Chinese Republic.
An Opportunity to Study New Art 
TendenciesOutlook, March 1, p. 466, 
also The Old and the NewIbid, p. 
467. Short editorials with reference to . 
the Cubists.
Politics.
Nation, January 16, 1913, p. 45. Edit, 
on Archbold impeachment. This case 
is regarded as a landmark, showing that 
the senate has the power to impeach 
even for conduct not directly liable to 
penal punishment.
Edit, on Gov. Baldwins proposal to 
do away with the device of Presiden
tial Electors. He believes in casting 
the whole popular vote of a state for 
the Presidential candidate, getting a 
plurality in that State, (p. 46.).
Edit, on Gov. Teners plan for pun
ishing the Coatesville lynchers by re
voking the charter of that town (p. 47).
Extravagance of Congress. Edit, of 
the Nation, February 22, 1913, p. 194. 
Economy never had so many votaries, 
apparently, yet so few practitioners. 
Physical Force SuffrageThe Pub
lic, February 28, 1913. Under this title 
Mr. Louis F. Post, editor of The Pub
lic, a noteworthy Chicago weekly, which 
supports the principle of the single tax, 
discusses from the ordinary American 
point of view the present state of the 
English feminist movement.
The Race for Federal JobsThe 
Worlds Work, March, 1913, p. 553, by 
Robert W. Woolley. Incidents and con
ditions relative to the ten thousand posi
tions which President Wilson has to 
give away.
Education.
His All-Round Excellency, the Col
lege President  The Independent, 
March 6, p. 499, by Charles W. Wil
liams. What is required of the execu
tive of an American institution of higher 
education.
Corporation SchoolsThe Inde
pendent, March 6, 1913, p. 519, by F. C. 
Henderschott. A new form of voca
tional training recently organized in a 
national association.
Grown-ups and Children, by Eliza
beth McCrackenOutlook, March 1, p. 
490. What we discover is that the 
children of today are taught, not new 
lessons, but the old lessons by a new 
method.
Economics.
The New FreedomThe Worlds 
Work, March, 1913, p. 540, by Wood
row Wilson. Monopoly, or opportunity?
Sugar and the TariffThe Ameri
can Review of Reviews, March, 1913, p. 
339, by A. G. Robinson.
The War With MonopolyThe In
dependent, March 6, 1913, p. 524, by Hon. 
William E. Borah, senator from Idaho. 
Mr. Borahs views as to the responsi
bility of state legislatures for the growth 
of monopolistic combinations and 
as to the way states may deal with such 
combinations by means of corporate 
charters.
Panama Canal.
The Panama Canal, Shall It Be
Just Right Clothing
For College Men
Suits $13.50 to $35.00 
Overcoats $15.00 to $45.00
Just Right Clothing comes direct from maker to wearer. Therefore 
saving the middlemens profit. This item is worthy of consideration.
McCREERY & CO.
Wood and Sixth Street
GREGORIO SCALZO
-----Leader Carnegie Tech Mandolin Club-----
Music for all occasions. Exceptional Dance Orchestras at
reasonable price.
AddressAtwood & Cable Telephone Schenley 1638-R
HOTEL SCHENLEY
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Under the Management of the Schenley Hotel and Restaurant Company 
Roman H Heyn, President 
ROOM RATES $2.00 PER DAY AND UPWARDS
Practically all the functions of the Carnegie Institute of Technology are 
held at the Schenley. Our rates have been considerably reduced, and we have 
engaged Mr. Widmer, the chef of the Union Restaurant, to be in charge f our 
kitchen department; Mr. Widmer having been at the Union Restaurant for 10 
years, is perfectly acquainted with the wants and demands of our local support 
ers, and we are therefore in the best position to take care of YOUR trade at 
reasonable rates. phone 285 schenley
American or Anglo - American? 
by Samuel Seabury, Justice of 
the Supreme Court of the State 
of New YorkOutlook, March 8, p. 
537. Judge Seabury is very much op
posed to arbitrating the question of tolls. 
This article should be carefully read. 
Read also Panama Canal TollsIbid, 
p. 523.
The Panama Canal, by Col. Geo. 
W. Goethals, Chief Engineer of the 
Panama CanalYouths Companion, 
March 6, p. 119.
Mexico.
The Downfall and Death of MaderoThe Victory of Revolution 
A Constitutional President  The 
Mexican ChaosOutlook, March 1, pp. 
461, 462 and 473.
THE BOSTON
will be taught in class Wednesday 
evenings at 8 P. M. at the
Jacques Dancing Academy
CRAIG AND FORBES STREET 
A dozen
PHOTOGRAPHS
Will endear you to twelve friends when made
AT
JAMIESON STUDIO
126 S. Highland Ave
Stop at
STAUFTS
NewsStationerTobacco 
3702 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh, Pa.
PLEBES LOSE RETURN GAME
As a preliminary to the Westinghouse Club vs. Tech game last Friday 
night, the Plebes played the Westinghouse 2nd team. The game was very 
closely contested, but the superior 
team work of the Westinghouse Sec
onds soon asserted itself. The game 
was very rough but many brilliant 
plays were made. Achesons brilliant 
playing saved the Plebes from a 
greater defeat. The crowd was often 
brought to its feet by the exciting 
dashes of Capt. Hall, and the veteran 
guard Houston. The line-up was as 
follows:
Tech Westinghouse 2nd Team
21 Score 28
Hall ........................F....................... Hertz
Wilmot ..................F................... Blosser
Hines ....................C.................... Lower
Houston................G................Ferguson
Ache.......................G....................Dunlap
Goals:Hall 3, Wilmot 1, Hines 2, 
Houston 1, Ache 1; Hertz 3, Blosser 2, 
Lower 4, Ferguson 2.
Fouls:Hall 5 out of 6; Lower 6 
out of 6.
PIERPONT, Si VITER & CO.
ENQRAVINQ PRINTING
EMBOSS1NU
Monograms and Crest Stationery promptly furnished in the latest styles in addition to all classes of Art Printing for social a nd commercial purposes
117-119 SHADY AVENUE
C. A. HEIMERT
3614 Forbes Ave.Iroquois Block
Mervs Wear Store
UP-TO-DATE
SnappyTogs
for the young man always 
on the tray.
** S i f 
* * ' 
* * * * * * * 
* 
 * 
*
THE SCHENLEY FARMS
Pittsburghs Restricted Residence District
THE SCHENLEY FARMS CO.
1412 Farmers Bank Bldg.
When Making Purchases Mention THE TARTAN, it helps.

---------------------------------------------------

6THE TARTAN
BUREAU OF RECOMMEN
DATIONS.
Full-time Employment.
Survejmig corps work for railroad 
company. Graduate engineers pre
ferred. Wages $65 per month.
Opportunity offered by steel com
pany in this district to one or more 
graduates to enter the employ of the 
company with the idea of being de
veloped into salesmen. $75 per month 
at the start for a preliminary period 
of six months to a year.
Civil Engineer experienced in city 
work. Man who can run accurate 
lines, take measurements, give grades 
and calculate contents. Salary (es
timated) $100 to $125 per month.
Instructorship in Chemistry open 
in educational institution in one of 
the southern states. Man required to 
take charge of a course in Physical 
Chemistry two to three hours per 
week; Organic Chemistry  three 
hours recitation, four hours labora
tory per week, and to assist in Quan
titative Analysis. Salary, $1,000 to 
$1,200 per year of nine monthsDraftsmen and TracersSeveral 
men wanted. Wages from $50 to $60 
per month.
Architectural Draftsman familiar 
with all classes of work from small 
residences to large office and loft 
buildings, churches, theaters and re
modeling of all kinds. Must be able 
to calculate reinforced concrete work 
and take charge of drafting room. Lo
cation, Columbus, Ohio.
Seven tall, strong men wanted, for one 
month's work. Wages $2.00 to $2.50 
per day.
DraftsmenTracers. Several good 
openings. Salary $50 to $70 per 
month.
Surveying Corps workrailroad main
tenance. Salary $60 to $65 per 
month.
Part-time employment 
Solicitors wantedto sell Mentholated 
Pine Pillow. Good commission.
MHO CLUB MEETING.
The regular March meeting of the 
Mho Club was held last Wednesday 
evening, March 5th, in Room 121.
After a short business session, the 
speaker of the evening, Mr. Alan 
Bright, of the class of 1911, and now 
with the MacBeth-Evans Co., was in
troduced. Mr- Bright spoke on the 
subject of Ornamental Street Light
ing, calling attention to the grow
ing importance of the ornamental fea
ture in street lighting and telling 
something of the methods of obtain
ing the desired effects. The talk was 
illustrated by means of a number of 
interesting slide, showing installa
tions in various parts of this country 
and in the neighboring countries of 
Mexico and Canada.
Mr. Bright showed a thorough 
grasp of his subject, making his speech 
interesting and instructive through
out. and those members who were not 
present may mark in the loss column 
one of the best meetings the Club 
has ever held.
I P. Ludebuehl & Son
j Theaters Week Of Mar. 10. j Penn and Frankstown, N N
*~~~ ' * J GEE=WHIZ,==at $4.00
ALVINThe Blue Bird, Maeterlincks beautiful fantasy, will return f ^5^. one of our 40 NEW FALL STYLES in
to the Alvin for a week. If you did ( \ Mens Boots. This is strictly a young
not see it on a former visit, do not -\ mans boot, with lots of style, and good
miss it this time. fitting qualities.
---------- ~/v^> x fBuilt for us by a famous Brockton ManNIXONHouse will be dark dur- \ ufacturer.
ing Holy Week, except for special J ------------- ------
performances. Step in Our Mens Department
DUQUESNEArticle 47 will be THE NEW DANCES OF THE DAY
revived by the stock company. ~ , 0 ... , . f  . , r  ,,  Mr. Del orugge will teach the Following program or hne ball Room Dances
GRANDGrace Van Studdiford, Boston Exercizes Standard Tango Two^-Step-Boston
the opera singer, will head the vaude- Long Boston The Harvard Boston Pas Boston^ j, j jjj ^ ^ Grand One-Step Manhattan Glide Waltz Lord Raglon Waltz
______ HOURS 9 TO 11:30 OCLOCK. TUITION $1.00 PER COUPLE. SPLENDID MUSIC.
LYCEUM__Happy Hooligan, a Dance and Dance Recital Hotel Schenley, large Ball Room
cartoon farce, will be seen at this SATURDAY EVENING, MARCH 1st
theater. First of a Series.
--------------------- Private lessons and private classes by appointment. Tuition Reasonable.
Musical Clubs Home Concert. nr j/ i r-t o nr i / i____ I rue Values B & B *rue values
___________ctmuedfrom Page 1.___________ mens furnishings
ager : E. D. Lambert, librarian $1.00 and $1.50 Shirtspleated and plain bosomattached or detached
Mandolin Club, and J. A. Cameron, cuffsgod patterns-sizes 14 to 17, 65c.
librarian Glee Club The Glee Club $1.00 and $1.50 UnderwearUnion Suits, Shirts and DrawersStandard, c IIn ^ makes, 75c a garment,members are, S. H. Miller, Cameron, Stuttgarter Underwear-$2.50 garments, $1.50.
Fuchs, A. E. Hamilton, Kurg, Smith, $1.50 garments, $1.00.
first tenors; C. W. Miller, Yahres. Lustre Repp Neckwearfine soft, slightly ribby silk having soft dull
James, Burnside, Kindi, Cornwall sec- Iustremany beautiful plain colorswide open end or reversible shape scarfs, 50c.
ond tenors; Puill, Crawford, Tucker, BoggS & Bllhl,
Schuchman, Kukovitch, Stewart, Pittsburgh, Peiir^a*
Atiking, first bass, and Rose, Hollister. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Gaylord, Donington, Poyntz, Kline, If you dont trade here we both lose
second bass. The members of the 1 IlC 1 <lgO P A WIW DU ft MnPT 1?MPMTQ
Mandolin Club are W. H. Steffler, McDou^all Dancing Classes KANUULr tt (X MCULMYlljrl IS
Todd. Madison, Dougherty, Benitey, MCUOtXgail UailCing ^laSSCS _0__F1()ral ExnertsoKleppel, Archer, first mandolin; Me- Shady and Penn
Kee, Sweeny, English, Kirchenbower. Wood and 5th 5936 Penn Ave* near Hi2hIand
Kelvey, Haaren, Lauer. Lambert, sec- 4616 Forbes Street Private Branch Exchange Hiland 25
ond mandolin; Bailey, Diehl, first ---------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------
violin; Griswold, Caplin, Boccheichio, the Musical Clubs and their friends Bell Phone 2797 Cedar. P. &. A. Phone 952-A
second violins; C. W. Steffler, Stewart, adjourned to the Hotel Schenley. H. A. BECKER,
mandolas; Veder, Todd, mando cello; where they danced until the small MUSIC HOUSE
Wood, Hardt, Gelg, Gustars; Gumbart, hours of the morning. Although many EVERYTHING KNOWN IN MUSIC, , . , ,, , ,, Headquarters for Band and OrchestratraPs- attended the dance the ball room was Instruments, Music and Supplies
The program follows: not over-crowded. N. S., Pittsburgh,Pa.
Part One music, furnished by Signor
i / \ a~-  r' t t- Scalzo, was of the best. The selec-I. (a) Amici.....................................C. 1.1. . oeI >> A 'liniiio? n i , o ,, tions were of the latest music to ar- 11, April ll>-il-l(b) Cavaliers Song. .. . Werrenrath . __, rive in Pittsburgh. --------------------------Glee Club  ,, ,,9 Under the Double Fa;>le dance, surpassed all expecta- Patronize our Advertisers.
!jeF. Wagner tions and everyone whose privilege it VOIJRF NEXT
Mandolin Club was * a^en(^ wdl remember it as -1 x
3. Loch Lomond .! Giee^lub Quartet one of the P|rasa" evenings of the Tech Sanitary Barber Shop
4. Coppelia ................................. Delibes year _ Haj-rjr F. Van Curen, Prop.
Mandolin Club Cor. Craig and Forbes Street
5. Sunset.........................Van De Water IT, April 10-11-12 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Glee Club --------------------- --------------------------------------------------------
6. Li Ritorni de Pescatori..Mavzuttini The old system of usmg a heated
Mandolin Club iron and dirty cloth prespps the grime Every service a bank may render its
7. Selected.................Glee Club Octette and dirt into your garments. Our customers is performed by
8. Lucia di Lammermoor. .. Donizetti sanitary machine steams it all out, and *Tri_ f 1 J
Mandolin Club removes permanently the dirt, pers- A flC V/3,KlciriCt
Part Two piration, odor and grime. See Shu- .........................................
9. Swing Song..............v.Cook man the Dry Cleaner, 3911 Forbes Savings & Trust Co.
Glee Club street. &..........................................................---------
10. Selected -------------;- Iroquois Block
Mandolin Club SextetteAppropriate. Cheerfully, promptly and on the
II. Good Bye...................................Tosti First ArtistWhat shall I call this best of terms.
12. Lovely Xight.Affenbach picture? It represents a devil chasing Capital $200,000.00
Combined Clubs a poor, lost soul. Surplus and Profits $200,000.00
13. (a) Parting ............................. Macy Second ArtistHow doesJust one Deposits over $1,300,000.00
(b) Alma Mater .Taylor damned thing after another strike --------------------------------------------------------------- -------
After the concert, the members of you?"Williams Purple Cow. Wait for IT, April 10-11-12
When Making Purchases Mention THE TARTAN, it helps.
