VOL. XII. NO. 27
INTERSCHOOL 
TRACK MEET 
APRIL 26(Ehr dar i m
MILITARY BALL 
HOTEL SCHENLEY 
APRIL 19
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAAPRIL 17, 1918
INDUSTRY SCHOOL AGAIN BEGINS LIBERTY BOND MEMORIAL CAMPAIGN
Bonds Bought Now Are to 
Be Added to Those of Second 
Loan to Establish Memorial
CLOCK MARKS PROGRESS
The Third Libertj Loan campaign 
had scarcely been launched when the 
students of the School o Applied In
dustries commenced to talk about do
ing their part. Dean Breed, in her re
marks at the recent general asembly,
. spoke very highly o ;the part this 
. school had taken in the Second Loan, 
when they inaugurated the Liberty 
Loan Memorial Fund. This fund, as 
was announced last fall, is to be held 
in trust until the bonds mature, when 
;'the principal and the interest will be 
used to erect a suitable memorial for 
those who have made the supreme 
sacrifice in this war.
With the coming of the Third Loan 
the students, through the Student As
sembly, unanimously decided to sup
port a campaign which should have for 
Its purpose the' purchase of additional 
bonds for this fund, to be added to 
those already held by the cashier. 
The Loan committee for this campaign
 consists of Batman, chairman, Wheel'er, MacNamarah and Rudisill. They 
will select assistants who will receive 
the subscriptions from the individual 
. students.
The committee has made extensive 
plans for the campaign which started 
yesterday morning and will continue 
until a week from today, Wednesday, 
April 24. During this time" progress 
of the work will be noted each day on 
a large clock which has been placed 
on the bulletin board. The committee 
aim high and expect each fellow in the. 
school to do his part. There is to be 
no fixed sum solicited from the stu
dents, but each will be asked to do 
what they feel most able to do. On 
this campaign all the societies and fra
ternities of the school will come across 
with a donation for their respective 
organizations.
It was the wish of the students that 
the committee purchase their bonds 
through the Margaret Morrison Car
negie School, the students of which 
are doing so much in the Third Lib
erty Loan Campaign.
Watch the Clock.
GIRLS WILL MARCH IN, 
PARADE ON SATURDAY
Liberty Loan activities ar finding 
an outlet in M. M. C. S. The business 
of receiving subscriptions is daily at
tended to in the main corridor under 
the direction of some of the students 
and is progressing quietly and steadily. 
The girls from M. M. C. S. are also 
taking subscriptions in the mens 
.schools every day between 12:30 and 
1:30. They are being ably assisted in 
this work by the Industries men, who 
have undertaken the canvassing in 
their own school.
In addition to this important and 
necessary work, the girls are planning 
to take more active part in behalf of 
the Third Liberty Loan campaign. 
There will be  a Margaret Morrison 
unit in the parade at 2 oclock on Sat
urday. The girls marching in this unit 
will be divided into three groups, rep
resenting surgical dressings, first aid, 
and the agricultural efforts. Those in 
the surgical dressings division will 
-wear the Red Cross uniform; those in 
the first-aid will also wear uniforms 
and first aid ribbons. The rake and 
hoe brigade, under Ruth Ross, will be 
suitably equipped and will need no 
explanation. There should be an ad
equate supply of girls, especially since 
-credit will be given for gym work.
WOMENS PARADE
The Women War Workers 
 Parade will assemble at Carne gie Library on the North Side,  
 corner Federal street and West- ?: 
1 ern avenue, on April 20, not later ?
* than 1:30 p. m. The parade will 
 start at 2:00 p. m. All women 
? students of Carnegie Institute of 
* Technology are requested to  
- march. Further notice will be 
? given.
M. M. C. S. GIRLS SELL 
DONDS IN FOUR SCHOOLS
TECH INVITED TO PLAY
Are At Assigned Places From 
12:30 to 1:30 Each Day
SUNNY KESNER WRITES 
TO THANK RED CROSS
Says That Former Letter 
Was Held UpTells of 
Use of Gifts
The following letter was> sent by 
"Sunny to the Tech Red Cross Aux
iliary:
Co. A, 15th IT.'S. Engineers, 
American Expeditionary Force, 
March 18, 1918.
Dear Friends: 
I just received information from a 
girl friend of mine that you had not 
yet received my letter of acknowledg
ment and thanks for your knit goods, 
so I am writing it again, in hopes that 
this one will be a counter, and keep 
you all from thinking that I am such 
an unappreciative being.
You all certainly are to be com
mended upon your spirit first, in at
tempting to do so much for us, only 
volunteers; and second, for the quality 
of the work you produced.
The socks I have worn out because 
I am always hot-footing it; the wrist
lets have many times served as handlets,'also, or perhaps as bracelets, be
cause I let them brace me on cold 
mornings; the sweater certainly was 
the real thing, but on the coldest days 
when I had it on, I was almost .the 
sweater. Now, that it has gotten too 
warm for a scarf, still this scarf friend 
is helping to win the war, for it is very 
close to me and has the inside dope 
on all my dreams, for I use it for a 
pillow.
Again I thank you all most heartily 
for your interest and work. Wishing 
you all success, I remain,
SUNNY KESNER, 17.
MELLON HALL GIVES 
SECOND DANCE OF YEAR
Saturday evening the girls of Mellon 
Hall gave their second dance. The 
decorations were Japanese lanterns 
and (lowers; the programs were decora
ted with hand-painted Japanese fig
ures. The refreshments consisting of 
an ice and cakes, were served after 12. 
o'clock by the Misses Blakey, Morey, 
Russell and Rupert, dressed in Japan
ese silk kimonos. The music was fur
nished by Mr. Jordan, from Riehls Or
chestra.
The success of this dance is entirely 
due to the untiring efforts of the com
mittee, under the efficient chairman
ship of Miss Anne Searight.
ELECTRICAL BANQUET 
WAS ENJOYABLE AFFAIR
A committee of twenty-four girls 
from Margaret Morrison are working 
steadily and diligently to help Uncle 
Sam with his Third Liberty Loan. 
Under the direction of Miss Charlotte 
Tross, the following are canvassing 
Machinery Hall: Rachel Beatty, Nelle 
Brey, Dorothy Harlaw and Florence 
Greer; in Science School are: Irma
Friedman, Ruth Toberg, Lucille Wake
field and Margaret Haldeman; in De
sign School: Ruth Giles, Harriet Stone. 
Lynda Lyman and Mary Truman; in 
Industries School: Bernice Kruger,
Barbara Endres, Gertrude Morgan and 
Helen Savard; in . Central Building: 
Mary Bechtel, Katherine Kirk, Lucy 
Hart and Charlotte Tross, and in Mar
garet Morrison: Ellen Speers, Hettie 
Hazlett, Edith Pearson and Helen 
Hewitt.
These girls are at their assigned 
places every day from 12:30 to 1:30, 
and would like the fact spread as 
broadcast as possible. Every one con(Continued on Page Three)
Muskingum Cancels Game 
Scheduled For This Week
Word was received from Muskin
gum College that they would be un
able to meet Tech on the diamond this 
year because of the lack of sufficient 
baseball material. Consequently, the 
game scheduled at New Concord for 
this week has been cancelled, and 
also the return game at Tech Field on 
April 25.
. Development of the teams to repre
sent Tech in the Spring Sports was 
further retarded oy the inclement 
weather of the past week. The snow 
and rain practically eliminated any 
work on Tech Field, the track squad 
being the only men to get out, and 
these only on Saturday afternoon. 
The field was fairly wet for the work
outs Monday and Tuesday. Because 
of the lack of time to see the men in 
action, it is impossible to indicate the 
men who will form the team.
The date for the Penn State game 
was definitely set for April 23, State 
Commencement Day. Tech received 
(Continued on Page Three)
COMMENCEMENT DATES
Applied Science...............May 10Evening-..........Design Theater *:*
Applied Design.............May 24Afternoon...Design Theater 
Applied Industries..........May 24Evening..........Design Theater 
M. M. C. S........................June 14Morning.........Design Theater X
MUSICAL CLUBS GIVE 
SUCCESSFUL CONCERTS
Last Thursday and Friday the Mu
sical Clubs gave two of the most suc
cessful concerts that have ever been 
given on a trip. Everyone was keyed 
up to the highest point, and more pep 
was displayed in the trip than has 
yet been shown this season. The trip 
began Thursday afternoon at 4 oclock. 
The men were met at New Castle by 
several fellows from the High School, 
and were taken to the Y. M. C. A., 
where dinner was served. The con
cert came off as fine as could be, and 
the audience appreciated every single 
number. Encores had to be given in 
every instance, the lighter numbers 
and specialties calling forth much ap
plause. After the concert the men 
were entertained at a Community Ball 
which was in progress that evening. 
This fact kept the audience smaller 
than it would have been, although 
financially the evening was very suc
cessful. ,
A special car was waiting for the 
*men at 10 oclock the next morning to 
take them to Youngtsown. Of course, 
several men couldnt leave some of 
their newly-made friends so soon, and 
came over to Youngstown later in the 
day. Dinner and supper were served 
at the Y. M. C. A. at Youngstown, and 
in the afternoon the clubs gave selec
tions in both South High School and 
Rayen High School. In both , schools 
the men were exceptionally well re
ceived. Cheers were given and lots of 
(Continued on Page Two.)
FORBES HALL GIVES 
COUNTRY FROLIC DANCE
COMMONS CLUB BECOMES 
LOCAL KAPPA SIGMA RHO
At a recent meeting the Carnegie 
-Chapter of the National Federation of 
-Commons Clubs went local by a unan
imous vote and is now known as the 
Kappa Sigma Rho Fraterity. Contrary 
.to the constitution of National Feder
ation of Commons Ciub<3 the local chap
ter as well as the majority of other 
chapters in the Federation has always 
favored a selective policy with regard 
to new members while still holding in 
high regard its ideal of democracy. 
Rather, however, than abandon their 
principle of a selective policy a break 
was considered preferable.
One smile that solitary shines en
riches the dry uesert of a thousand 
stupid lines.Horace.
I Last Friday evening, the Carnegie 
[ Tech Branch of the American Institute 
| of Electrical Engineers held its fourth 
annual banquet at the Craft Avenue 
Club.
I After a supper of roast turkey and 
all the trimmins, Toastmaster Eames 
introduced Lieut. Daniels, who gave a 
very interesting talk on Flying. 
Lieut. Daniel^ has had some .thrilling 
experiences in the air and his matterof-fact way in describing them was 
well liked by his hearers.
Lieut. Minor, a Tech graduate of 
1916, gave a summary of his army ex
periences from the time he entered 
training camp at Ft. Benj. Harrison, 
Indiana, till he arrived at Tech for 
Radio work.
Mr. Kindi gave a short talk on the 
Vacuum Tube, which was appre
ciated by every one of the thiity-two 
who were present.
The Juniors and Seniors were re
sponsible for the stunta one-act 
skit entitled Digitswhich concluded the program for the evening.
Saturday evening, April 13, the main 
house of Forbes Hall entertained the 
girls of the, Annex. The party is the 
first of two which were planned as a 
contest, the reward for the most eleven 
being a dance given by the losing side. 
The guests were invited to attend a 
j country frolic and to come dressed as 
| farmers. During the first of the even
ing, the hostesses presented a vaude
ville show, complete with dancers, 
singers and orchestra. After the en
tertainment, which was greatly en
joyed by all, there was music for 
dancing, and later in the evening, 
wiener sandwiches, pickles and lemon
ade were served. The merits of this 
party were carefully observed by the 
judgesMiss Coleman, Miss Schumacker, Miss Bennett, and Miss Jean 
Grey, who were guests at the dor
mitory.
ENOUGH MONEY MADE TO 
ADOPT FRENCH ORPHAN
The result of the Daffodil Sale on 
last Tuesday at Assembly was large 
enough to adopt another French or
phan. However, the money, which 
amounted to thirty-six dollars, will be 
'sent to Dr. Blair.
TECH BAND TO MARCH IN 
LIBERTY LOAN PARADE
Manager Smith announces that the 
Tech Band will participate in the Lib
erty Loan Parade on Saturday, April 
20. It is hoped that, every band man 
will be out, as it will bo the first, big 
parade in which Tech may be repre
sented this spring. Some members of 
the band will have to increase their 
attendance record considerably if they 
wish to get the insignia. Major Lyle 
has ordered that a list of the absontees from each rehearsal be sent to 
his office, and ho will deal witli such 
offenders as ho sees fit.
Not only are the members of tho 
band working hard now on tho final 
arrangements for tho Military Ball, 
but also they are planning to furnish 
the music for the May Festival at M. 
M. C. S., and that Is now being re
hearsed.
Any enlisted men who are studying 
at Tech and who play band instru
ments will be very welcome at rehear
sals. Some instruments can be fur
nished. A regular rehearsal is held 
every Wednesday from 4:30 p. m. to 
6:00, in the Union in the Central 
Building.
All band men should return their 
uniform as soon as possible now and 
get credit for them. The regular army 
uniforms will be worn at all band oc
casions for the remainder of the year.
Plans for the annual Band Banquet 
are under way, and a definite arrouncement of the arrangements will be made 
soon.
LARGE CROWD EXPECTED FRIDAY AT MILITARY BALL IN SCHENLEY
 ; v v v v v v v v :   + Iq] Brooks and Mis. HamviCTROLA VOL.VXI : erschlag Will Lead Grand
MarchBegins at Nine< The Fredericks Company ? 
J* have promised to send a vie- *!? 
I* trola to the Union for the en?I* tertainment of the enlisted men *!
* at Tech. If there are any of > 
?I* the regular students who live *
in the city that can give or
* lend one or more records for use *
* with the victrola, that service v
* would be greatly appreciated. *:* 
This is just one opportunity to *
?I* make a bit of sacrifice to help v 
< someone else. *J*
STUDENT ACTIVITIES 
BOARD BUYS BONDS
Two Thousand Dollar Club 
Building Fund Invested 
In Loan
ADDITIONAL MILITARY 
EQUIPMENT RECEIVED
More military equipment for the car
rying on of the special studies in mil
itary training here arrived Saturday. 
\ The shipment-consisted of trench lum| her, brush for trench work, shovels, 
i picks and barbed wire. A number of 
; dummies to be used in bayonet work 
were also received, and will be strung 
in position at once. Some of the girls 
have made semaphore flags for the 
men studying signaling, Miss Ellen 
Crowe having done a great deal and
The Student Activities Board has 
invested two thousand dollars in Liberay Bonds. That announcement came 
as a surprise to most Techites, for few 
people realized that the board had 
even ah acquaintanceship with that 
amount of money, or less that they 
would ever be able to get that much 
free to invest. As a matter of fact, 
the two thousand dollars is tho major 
portion of a fund which has been set 
aside by dint of hard saving for tho 
purpose of erecting, some day, a build
ing to contain the student club room 
and activity offices. It can be spent 
for no othor purpose, but his been in
vested for tho present in Liberty 
Bonds.
SULLY CUTS REHEARSAL 
AFTER SIX YEAR RECORD
Owing Lo Sullys illness, the Band 
was without him at rehearsal last 
Wednesday, but he is feeling fine again 
and will liavo charge of the regular 
rehearsal again today. During the six 
yoars in which Sully has been direct
ing the Band, he never was absent 
from a rohoarsal until last Wednes
day. He surely has a very commenda
ble record. R. B. Johnson displayed 
much ability as a director when he 
took charge of tho band at tho last 
genoral assembly, as well as at the 
rehearsal.
M. M. C. S. GIRLS PLANT 
GARDEN AT CAMP LOUISE
During Easter week, Mary Bechtel, 
Irma Friedman and Barbara Endres 
pioneered at Camp Louise Carnegie. 
Tho ground had been plowed and they 
put in a crop of lettuce, radishes, beets, 
parsnips and othor vegetables. Week
end parties are being planned for 
every week from now until June.
CAPT. DE BEAUFORT THERE
deserving credit for her interest in 
this work. The special classes along 
all lines, which are being held daily, 
are progressing rapidly.
ZIONIST SOCIETY TO 
MEET SUNDAY AFTERNOON
A regular meeting of the Collegiate 
Zionist Society will be held Sunday, 
April 21, 1918, at 3:00 p. m., at the 
Tree of Life Synagogue, Craft avenue, 
near Forbes.
Professor N. Slusch, of the Sorbonne, 
Paris, will address the audience.
All that are interested in tho So
ciety are cordially invited to attend. 
A special invitation is extended to all 
Jewish soldiers who ae taking war 
courses at Tech.
MISS SARI ENGSTROMER 
TALKS TO GIRLS AT TEA
In last Wednesday afternoon the 
women of the Margaret Morrison 
School had the extreme pelasure to 
hear Miss Engstromer, the French Red 
Cross nurse, a second time. She told 
about how very interesting the cases 
under her supervision had been. One 
man who seemed to be well enough, 
was dazed, and his interest could not 
be roused. Somehow he dropped the 
suggestion that he had a dog at home. 
The nurses found a straggly, forlorn 
banine and brought it into the pa
tient's room and his eyes began to 
sparkle. She told about the soldiers 
fondness for smokes and dolls. They 
like to carry dolls into battle with 
them as mascots, and then take them 
home to their children.
Miss Engstromer had a number of 
photographs of the soldiers in the hos
pitals and the girls swarmed to see 
them. She told about the Christmas 
and New Year's celebrations, and 
about the various stunt-parties in 
which they found a number of acomplished people. One orderly had been 
a grand opera singer. Then nlio told 
about one soldier with whom she sat 
until he died. In order to savo the 
strength of the doctors for living 
bodies, the nurses prepared the body 
and carried it to an out-house in the 
moonlight with magnolia In blossom.
After Miss BngstromorH talk, tea 
| was served and the girls asked ques
tions about work they could do.
Arrangements for tho formal Mili
tary Ball to be held at the Hotel 
Schenley, Friday evening, April 19, 
are complete. Some last-minute hints 
and pieces of information may be 
given, but much that is attractive 
about the whole affair must be kept  
under cover.
The first bit of information: Those 
not coming to the Ball will miss the 
most novel, the most attractive, up-tothe-minute social affair ever staged at 
Tech. YOU get your ticket today or 
it may be too late.
The ball is pirmarily a Military Ball, 
and so military uniform is the proper 
thing to wear. However, those not 
having uniforms will be welcomed in 
formal civilian clothes.
The ball is planned as a Tech affair. 
The parents or friends of Tech stu
dents and friends of the school in gen
eral will be welcome. In case of any 
Tech student wishing to buy a ticket 
for a closo friend the committee re
quests that the Tech student indorse 
the ticket..
The music, in charge of Mr. George 
McNemry, will begin at 8:30. Tho 
grand march, led by Col. Brooks and 
Mrs. Hamerschlag, Is to be one of tjhe 
striking events of the evening, it 
will begin promptly at 9:00 p. m. 
Since the affair Is a military one, let 
It be known that 9:00 p. m. means 
9:00 p. m., and not later.
A part of the program, which will 
be of special interest, will be given by 
Capt. De Beaufort. Ho will show sevoral choice picturos from his porsonaL 
collection of war scenos.
In thoso times, when economy must 
rule so many of ones activities, the 
commlttoe requests that No Flowors 
and No Taxis (especially in coming) 
be Indulged In. Money spent L'or*lheso 
things, before the ball, will bo oxtravaganco to tho highest dogroo, whllo 
money speiit. at tho ball will go to your 
('. I. T. Auxiliary. Which do you wish 
to support?
There will bo 25 dancos, Including 
(Continued on Pago Two.)
BRING YOUR BOOKS' 
TO SOLDIERS LIBRARY
Design School has hold up Techs 
end In tho national campaign for books 
to bo sent to the men In service. Dur
ing tho week of the spoclul drive" for 
books, Design School furnished 14-1. 
However, Design did not stop when 
tills week was up, but has continued to 
collect books since that time. This 
work is under the direction of Mrs. 
Wappal, librarian, who expects to 
bring tho total in books up to 250 by 
May first.
There Is no reason why Design 
School should be practically alone in 
this'work. There is no reason why alL 
Tech students with books which they 
have read and enjoyed cannot give 
some of these to the soldiers libraries.
In the work of supplying reading 
matter for our soldiers, much has been 
done. A fund of $1,700,000 has been 
given by the American people and a 
librarian has been sent abroad to su
perintend the distribution of books 
and the construction of libraries.
But there remains much to do here. 
The most important factors now are 
books. We must keep them going, 
steadily. Not only will our new men 
read books, but the books wear out 
with constant use. Most any up-to-date 
books are acceptable; fiction, history, 
biographies, modern books on profes
sions and books on military subjects 
are most acceptable.
When you bring your books, take 
them to Mrs. Wappat in the Design 
School library. She will see that they 
are credited to Tech and sent on to the 
library.
GRADUATE MARRIES AND 
LEAVES FOR HAWAII
Miss Frances Willis, a Science grad
uate of 191(5, who had been Graduate 
Assistant at Margaret Morrison and 
was then offered a position at, Pitt, 
was married recently to Lieut. Col
lette. Mr. Collette was ordered to 
Hawaii, and the bride and groom are 
now on their way there.
The power thoughtthe magic 
of the mind! Llyron.
COME TO MILITARY BALLFRIDAY
. ..     '   l Rninuilinl

---------------------------------------------------

Page TwoTHE TAP.TANWednesday, April 17, 1918'-
(Hartan
Published every Wednesday by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute 
of Technology.
Entered in the postoffice of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
Yearly, .pi.50
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
5c the copyCanada, ?1.75
Phone Grant 388-R.
Phone Schenley 2200-J
EDITORIALEdithBradon
Managing Editor 
L. K. Paquin 
Assistant Managing Editors 
C. It. Olmsted
F. I. Smith 
School Editors 
M. M. C. S.Salome Stamm 
Design
IndustriesW. D. Hall 
Science
NightJulius Foster 
Athletic Editor 
H. H. Blau 
Staff Photographer 
William M. Myler, Jr.
M. M. C. S. Assistants 
Marion Bach
Frances Roberts 
Hazel Shaffer 
Margaret Sondheim 
Helen Young 
Other Assistants 
Ellen Crowe 
J. M. Walcott 
I. Sissman
BUSINESS 
Advertising Manage
Charles H. Todd 
Assistant 
M. I. Cohen 
Circulation Manager 
C. L. De Prefontaine 
Assistant 
C. J. Livingstone
TARTAN OFFICE............................................................................................Room 162, Design
Hours2:00 to 4:00 Mon uays.
4:30 to 5:00 Wed nesdays and Thursdays.
The Editor-in-chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the Man
aging Editor for the make up.
All business communications should be sent to the Business Manager. 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported 
at once. **
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the signature to be withheld if desired.
All news items must be in the student postoffice, Central Building, before 
noon on Mondays. 28
ACTIVITIES NEXT YEAR
The question oil activities next year, even for the rest of this 
year, has become pertinent indeed. Just for example, the possibili
ties for practice in baseball and track have been reduced to the 
minimum because of. the fact that the drill missed must be made 
up. The Thistle is meeting even greater difficulties than usual be
cause of the lack of time to do the work, combined with the difficul
ties of keeping the board intact and of keeping in touch with the 
purchasers as they leave school. Many of the activities of the stu
dent clubs have been eliminated because of the necessity for using 
club rooms in war work. Plebe regulations are practically abol
ished, and the distinction between Plebe and Upperclassmen is a 
nominal one only. Opportunities for working up student enthusiasm 
are reduced along with the reduction in school assemblies. Activi
ties, customs, spiritall are changing, and changing in a way which 
would have been violently opppscd two years ago.
Understand, though, that this is not a complaint; we would be 
foolish to. complain because we. have to face a situation which all 
colleges are facing (witness the cancelling of the two Muskingum 
baseball games at the last moment), or because we are changing our 
mode of college life just as every single person in the United 
Stales must accommodate himself to the needs of the war. The 
outstanding example of that change at the moment is the way in 
which the banks of the co.nntry have given up much of their regular 
business to take on without compensation the selling of Liberty 
Bonds; banks receive no more compensation than the girls from 
Margaret Morrison do.
Although we would be foolish lo complain, we would be equally 
foolish not. to face tho facts squarely, and the facts arc tliat activi
ties are becoming moro and more impossible. Frorii eight in the 
morning l.o live at night a students schedule is filled up with work 
which he is required to do under military discipline, and it seems 
as though all activities which occur largely or wholly during those 
hours must be abandoned. That includes most prominently varsity 
athlclies and Tho Thistle. The death ol! varsity athletics would 
come lulld to Tech, but formal competition with other schools re
quires hours ol! practice which are practically impossible now, and 
a number ol! students' ol! which we .fall far short. Also it would 
hardly seem like a school -year without The Thistle, but their work, 
unlike that ol! Tho Tartun, comes largely during the impossible 
hours ol! the daytime. In this case that difficulty might possibly 
be overcome by amending the constitution of The Thistle so as to 
make the girls of the Institute responsible for its publicationwhich 
is the wise thing to do il! the attempt is made at all next year 
but even that is doubtful because the final argument with both 
varsity athletics and The Thistle is the fact that they cost far more 
than we can afford.
Of course, none of these predictions, about next year are au
thoritative; they are merely guesses as to what will not be done 
next year. There are still things which can be done. Intramural 
athletics canand, in accordance with the Governments expressed 
wish, shouldbe maintained, for they require little practice and 
little money. The Glee Clubs practice in the evenings and on 
Sunday, and consequently could be maintained. Dances and other 
social events are possible for the same reason, and desirable both for 
the amusement and for the fact that they form easy methods of 
raising money. Besides, the most prominent of all our activities 
now is military drill; if the student body comes to regard it as an 
activity rather than a part of the curriculum it is quite possible that 
an even greater enthusiasm than at present might be shown over it.
OFFICIAL NTIGES
ENGINEER OFFICERS CAMP
, Two men will be selected from the School of Applied Science 
1o attend the Fourth Engineers Officers Training Camp at Camp 
Lee. Authority for this selection was received last week, as follows: 
WAR DEPARTMENT 
Office of the Chief of Engineers 
WASHINGTON
April 15, 191S.
The Chief of Engineers.
The President, Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Subject: Fourth Engineer Officers Training Camp.
GENERAL PLAN.
1. Under the authority of a memorandunt of the Adjutant 
Generals Office dated October 1, '-917, and in accordance with
From : 
To :
recommendation of the Chief of Engineers of February 28, 1918, ap
proved April 4, 1918, a fourth Engineer Officers Training Camp 
will be conducted at Camp Lee, Petersburg, Virginia, beginning May 
5, 1918, for the purpose of training candidates for commissions in 
the Engineer Reserve Corps.
Quota.
2. In addition to officers holding commissions in the Engineer 
Reserve Corps and certain selected candidates from the enlisted 
personnel of the Regular Army, National Guard, and National 
Army, there will be admitted to this training camp candidates from 
each of the approved technical schools listed by the War Depart
ment. Each school will be allowed a number of candidates equal 
to 2 per cent of the average numerical strength of the graduating 
classes of the Engineer Department of the institution for the past 
five years. (All fractions count as one.)
QUALIFICATIONS.
3. (a) Character of the applicant as regards:
Conduct
Leadership
Ability to learn quickly 
Ability to instruct others.
(b) General suitability: i. e., military appearance, etc.
(c) These civilian candidates must be selected from among 
those whose school records entitle them to rank among 
the top 10 per cent of their class.
SELECTION OF CANDIDATES.
4. These candidates will be selected by the school faculty, from 
among the members of this years graduating class or from among 
those who' have graduated not prior to the declaration of the. war 
with Germany.
STATUS OF STUDENTS.
5. These candidates will be required upon reporting at the 
training camp to enlist or be inducted into the service. While stu
dents, they will receive the pay and allowances of privates, first 
class. They will be paid on the first pay roll mileage at the rate of 
3i/2 cents per mile from their homes to Camp Lee, Petersburg, Va. 
Such candidates as successfully complete the course will receive 
commissions as second lieutenants in the Engineer Reserve Corps 
and will be assigned to active duty to fill such vacancies as may 
exist. If, after completing the three months course, they are not 
recommended for a commission they will have to remain in the serv
ice as enlisted men for the duration of the emergency, unless sooner 
discharged or promoted.
GENERAL.
6. A candidate on duty at the training camiD who evidences 
unfitness for his duties by reason of his habits, lack of character, 
inefficiency, or who is guilty of misconduct, will be reported at 
once to the Commanding Officer of the Camp. Upon receipt of; such 
report the Commanding Officer will convene a Board of Officers 
to determine its correctness and the suitabiliy of the candidate and 
to submit recommendations. The candidate must appear before the 
Board and will be entitled to the right of challenge for cause and 
will be permitted to call witnesses in his behalf. Should the 
Board recommend relief from school and the proceedings be ap
proved, the candidate will be assigned as an enlisted man to an or
ganization and will be sent at once to join said regiment. In all 
such cases the decision of the Camp Commander will be final.
7. As your school is one of those listed by the War Depart
ment, it is requested that the candidates who are to attend the En
gineer Training Camp be selected and that this office be advised as 
to their names and addresses not later than April 20th, 1918, in 
order that appropriate certificates of suitability may be furnished 
authorizing their attendance at the camp.
W. M. BLACK,
Major General.
By E. Eliot Winslow, 
Brigadier General, Engineers.
FORMER FACULTY MEMBER 
WRITES FROM CAMP LEE
Co. C, 320th infantry,
Camp Lee.
reterSburg, Va. 
Miss Mary B. Breed,
Margaret Morrison School, 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
My dear Miss Breed: 
As you can see from my heading, I 
have been assigned to a branch of the 
service. We received our physical ex
amination yesterday and I was passed 
for special service. I presume, there?, 
fore, that I shall be transferred else
where, but; do not know where or when. 
My arm keeps me reminded of my ty
phoid inoculation and I suppose the 
vaccination will relieve the inoculation 
ol! that function in a day or two.
We have pleasant quarters and ser
viceable food. It is a great sight to 
watch us eat. Words fail to describe 
it. Our utensils consist of an enam
eled tin (capacity 1 qt), a pan like 
a pie-pan, a knife, fork, and large 
spoon. I think the fork could be elim
inated without any great inconvenLargest Jewelry Establishment in Pittsburgh 
THE WATCH IN THE TRENCHES 
KHAKI
The U. S. Government has ruled that WRIST WATCHES 
toorn by soldiers must hereafter have the 
SEMI-DARKENED CRYSTAL
NTE Khaki Watch
is the one Wrist Watch that meets this demand 
Unbreakable Glass, Luminous Dial, Khaki Wrist Band 
that wont absorb moisture, and Waltham movement.
$22.00 to $27.00
The HARDY C HAYES CO.
Wood St. at Oliver Ave. Pittsburgh
HXLLLLLLLLLLLLLI1111.1J 11 II 111111 ni 11 il i il 111111111 rmrmn-f^
niininiiiiiiiiii!iuiii!i!iiiiii!iiiiimii!i!iiiiiiiiii!i!iiiiniiuiim!>i!iiiiiinii!iiniiinii!iniDii!iiiiiiiiii!iitiniii!i:i!iii
A National Institution
Browning, King & Company
CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS AND HATS FOR 
MEN, BOYS AND CHILDREN 
439-441 WOOD STREET
ffliiiimiimEmnaairaiii!EwciiiHiiffliraiiiu;i!inniauicra!iiiiniiaunBtiiiii!iiiiraniii!!imu!!i:i!n;iaiumuiu!!iu!raMiiiiiiDMiiKn!iiiiffliiffiiifflii[iniDia
ience to many of us.
My military experience is, of course, 
very limited but rather interesting. 
In support of the latter assertion, I 
must close and do some laundry work.
Yours sincerely,
IRA D. GARARD.
The above letter was sent to Dean 
Breed by Mr. Garard, who was for
merly professor of chemistry in the 
Margaret Morrison Science depart
ment.
LARGE CROWD EXPECTED FRIDAY 
AT MILITARY BALL AT SCHENLEY
(Continued. From Page One.) 
extras. There will be two short inter
missions.
A friend has contributed this charm
ing invitation:
Oyez! Good Folklisten, one and all, 
The big brass band of the C. I. T. 
Invites you to a Red Cross Ball
You and your lass, who eer she be 
To hustle on out and join in the rout, 
For when the band 
Takes a thing in hand,
Weve got to fall in, and shout.
The boys , herald forth to all the.town 
That on next Friday night,
To Schenleys ball room, ye fare down, 
Where .theyll do the thing up right, 
That there will Merriment preside 
Oer the votary 
Of terpsicliore,
And other folks beside.
You men! go don your uniform, 
Stained, or worn though it be,
For the Khaki makes our blood grow7 
warm,
And it looks mighty good to me.
For every spot speaks of work well 
done,
And every rent 
Of some high intent
Dont doll up, but join in the fun.
i
Dont spend your pelf on the Taxi man, 
Come along on the cars, or hike;
To get your cash weve a bully plan, 
And its one that you all will like 
Vendors of posies we provide for fair, 
Where you can find 
A flower to your mind,
So get none 'till you get there.
Right there in the room where the 
flower girls 
And gypsy folk have gathered from 
afar,
To read your future amidst the whirls 
Of the danceand to say what star 
Presides oer your destiny, turmoil or 
calm,
Will promise fame,
Or a noble name,
For a bit of silver to cross her palm.
/And, girls, dont wait to be asked to 
the Ball
This thing must.be a go
And if there is not as escort for all, 
Come with, or without, a beau. 
Whoever you bring will welcome be, 
Be he short or'tall,
O big or small,
Just so he is pleasing to ye.
I
So lets whistle old Daddy Care down 
the wind,
And sing, and smile, and dance,
For a brave high heart is the Yankee 
i kind,
That will follow bur Flag to France, 
Till Old Glory shines over all the 
earth,
Her folds unfurled,
Oer a war-worn world,
With her message of Freedoms new 
birth.
A. V. C.
MUSICAL CLUBS GIVE 
SUCCESSFUL CONCERTS
(Continued Fi-om Page One.) 
the old pep displayed both by tire 
clubs and the students. The audience 
th.it evening was the largest the clubs 
liave played before this year. Every
one was pleased with the program, 
and no regrets were heard that Tech 
was given the contract rather than 
Cornell or Western Reserve. In fact, 
it was mentioned that the concert 
wrould be an annual affair. The men 
will surely want to go back if it can 
possibly be arranged next year.
Myron Kinder, who was in the 
clubs last year, is the president of the 
Alumni Association of the South High 
School, and it was largely through his 
efforts that the arrangements were so 
successful. It was, without doubt, the 
best arranged concert that has been 
given this year. Every detail was 
taken care of; autos took the men to 
and from the schools, and the treat
ment received was of the very best. 
Too much credit cannot be given 
Kinder for the work he has done' for 
the clubs and Carnegie Tech. 
This week the clubs will again ap
pear twice. Thursday evening at the 
Syria Mosque, the Glee and Mandolin 
Clubs will give several selections on 
the program of the Knights Templars 
benefit performance. Some 4,000 peo
ple will be at this affair, and it bids 
fair to be one of the biggest adver
tisements for the clubs' that has ever 
been undertaken. Friday night will 
see the clubs in Swissvale, for a con
cert for the benefit of the Childrens 
Welfare Circle of Swissvale. One of 
the noticeable things about the clubs 
is that almost every concert given is 
for the benefit of some good cause. 
After this week some three more con
certs are on the seasons program.
!* The Kaiser wants to know *:* 
what you are going to do; dont.*:* 
J* keep him ' waiting. *
EAT THE MILLER WAY
Millers 
Cafeteria
and 
RESTAURANT
FIFTH AVE. ARCADE
(SUBWAY)
1 GET YOUR HAIR CUTa a a i: s a a a a a a a a3
TECH BARBER SHOP
Nearest to Tech 
COR. CRAIG AND FORBES 
FRED FARGEL, Proprietor
Bell Phone 3465 GrantJ. G. Marshall 
Company
OFFICE, SCHOOL AND
LIBRARY FURNITURE. 
959 LIBERTY AVENUE 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
fgjgigMgJSJSMSJSMSMbiMMSMSMSMSMS
Bellefield Shoe 
Repairing
FORBES STREET 
Opposite Carnegie Library.
High class work done while you 
a wait.
N LOW PRICES. TO TECH 
g STUDENTS
[3 Give us a trial.
CHURCHES
ST. PAULS CATHEDRA! 
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.
Masses: 6:30, 8:00, 9:00, 10:00 and 
11:00 A. M. on Sundays and Holy 
Days.
Vespers on Sundays at 7:30 P. M. 
Pew 58 Middle Aisle for Tech Stu
dents.
ASCENSION EPISCOPAL CHURCH 
Ellsworth Avenue and Neville Street: 
DR. WYATT BROWN, Rector. 
REV. E. JEFFERY JENNINGS, 
Assistant.
Sunday Services, 11 A. M. and 7:45- 
P. M.
Bible Class, 10:00 A. M.
Tech students cordially welcomed.
Third United 
Presbyterian Churclh
Shady and Northumberland Avenues 
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M'.~ 
Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M. anci-' 
3:00 P. M.
Young Peoples Service, 7:00 P. M. 
Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages.- 
A cordial welcome to all.
ROBERT B. MILLER, D. D., 
Pastor.
Grace Church
(Reformed)
THE HOME LIKE CHURCH 
BAYARD and DITHRIDGE STREETS 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister 
SERVICES 
Sunday School9:45 A. M.
Morning Worship11 A. M. 
Christian Endeavor7 P. M. 
Popular Evening Services at 7:45,. 
Sermons for Head and Heart. 
Hearty Welcome for All.
BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN & 
CHURCH 
Bellefield and Fifth Avenues 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D., 
Minister.
Preaching Services 11 and 8.
Sunday school at 10.
Christian Endeavor at 7.
We want the Tech boys to at
tend our services and learn to 
know us as the congregation of 
Friendly People. A hearty 
welcome awaits you.
[5/SJSE/5jSMSJ5i5J5iSf5J5M5JSiS/5/SMBJ515/5/5
The ills of the body politic may be 
healed without resort to dangerous 
quacks and fanatics and nauseous 
nostrums.W. A. Purrington.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April 17, 1918THE TARTANPage Three
 Miss Anne OLeary |
S (Formerly with J. E. T. Shuman) [3 
b CLEANING. PRESSING AND  
REPAIRING
l3 of Ladies and Gentlemens 
Garments, 
g Alterations on Uniforms. 
1 3933 FORBES STREET |
Bell Schenley 389
French classics, as a .Christmas pres
ent to the Union, and other important 
French works. M. Camille Flamniarion has given a valuable auto
graphed set of his works, and many in
dividual .volumes have been presented 
by different French writers of distinc
tion. The Yale University Press has 
presented a collection of some fifty of 
its important publications in various 
fields and other gifts of English books 
have been received from societies and 
residents of Paris. On the first, floor 
a large bedroom has been converted 
into an excellent, quiet reading and 
writing room, with an open fire. Here 
are kept the'illustrated magazines and 
papers, of which the Union receives a 
large number, while the newspapers, 
which include many of the most rep
resentative American journals from all 
parts of the United States, are kept 
on file in racks in the lounge on the 
ground floor.
(c)French AffairsChairman, Pro
fessor Vibbert. This committee has 
taken charge of the important ques
tion of French lessons and has suc
cessfully arranged many individual les
sons and some courses and exchange 
lessons in French and English, con
ducted both at the LTnion and else
where. It maintains also a list of pen
sions for the benefit df those who wish 
to live in French families and it has 
been active in co-operating with .the 
French committee 011 Receptions Parislennes discussed later in this report. 
Its work has been especially valuable 
in cementing the Franco-American re
lations which the American University 
Union has helped to foster.
(d)Committee on PublicityChair
man, Mi*. Crenshaw. Tihs committee, 
recently appointed, has already sys
tematized the work of publicity as to 
notices of concerts, lectures and other 
entertainments at the Union. It has 
also arranged for suitable notices of 
the Union in the official paper, the 
Stars and Stripes, whose publication 
has just been commenced, at General 
Pershings suggestion, as an official 
newspaper for the Ameircan Forces 
abroad.
(To Be Continued Next Week.)
The following is the first quarterly 
report of the American University 
Union in Europe, of which Tech is a 
member:
Opening of Paris Headquarters of the 
Union.
On Saturday, October 20, 1917, tlio 
American University Union in Europe 
opened at the Paris Headquarters, the 
Royal Palace Hotel, Rue de Riche
lieu. No fotmal ceremonies were held, 
but that evening there was an infor
mal dinner of the Executive Commit
tee and of the Paris Advisory Council 
of the Union. This council consists 
of 24 resident graduates representing 
nine diffeernt American universities 
and colleges. The American Ambas
sador, Mr. Sharp, who is an honorary 
patron of the Union, was prevented by 
illness from attending the opening din
ner. General Pershing, who is like
wise an honorary patron, was repre
sented by General Allair, at that time 
Provost Marshal of the American Ex
peditionary Forces in Paris.
On the opening day, visitors were 
registered from thirty different Amer
ican universities and colleges, and 011 
the opening night over half of the 
rooms in the hotel Were occupied. On 
the tenth night every room was filled.
The contract made by the Executive: 
Committee with the Royal Palace Ho
tel secured for the Union the exclusive 
use of the hotel on the basis of a guar
antee of two-thirds of the room-rentals 
the charge for each room being fixed 
by the contract on a scale of prices 
representing considerable concessions 
from those previously charged by the 
hotel. This guarantee has been so 
largely exceeded that no payments un
der it to the hotel management have 
been necessary. Since the tenth 
night the hotel has been continuously 
filled practically to capacity.
Internal Organization.
In order to^systematize the work of 
the Union the following committees 
have been constituted, each of which 
has as its chairman a member of the 
Executive Committee.
(a)  Entertainment Committee:  
Chairman, Mr. Hyde. This committee 
has arranged in conjunction with the 
House Committee various large club 
dinners, notably at Thanksgiving, 
Christmas and New Years; a formal 
reception for French officials and pro
fessors of educational and university 
circles; a series of Saturday afternoon 
teas open to ladies and conducted by 
them; a series of admirable concerts, 
usually given on Sunday evenings, 
various other social gatherings and 
entertainments.
(b)Library and Art Committee 
Chairman, Professor VanDyke. This 
committee has already secured a noteRSCCHOLHAAKCM
P2KC6These are two of the 24 popular shapes in 
which you can get the
& Stratford .
$1.00 and up
W'D C Hand Made
$1.50 and up 
Each a*fine pipe, with sterling silver rin^ 
and vulcanite bit. Leading t dealers in town carry a full as
sortment Select your favorite style. <
WM. DEMUTH & CO.
New York 0
Worlds Largest Pipe Manufacturers
FOR SPRING
CASCO-2Viwr. Clyde-v/sin.
Established 1865
l[:;jUII!IIUIill!llllllllli:i!inil!ll!lll:lllllllllllllUIIIJ!lll!IIK!lllll!IIU|!l!ll^lllHIIII!UUillll!IUIUUira
IVSelon
National
Bank
PITTSBURGH 
510-514 Smitlifield St. 
409-413 Fifth Ave. 
406-410 Oliver Ave.
I Capital-------$6,000,000
SPORTING GOODS STORE 
TennisGolf 
BaseballBicycles 
Kodaks and Films 
Guns and Ammunition 
Army Leggings and Sweaters 
Fishing Tackle 
Bicycle Tires and Sundries 
J Tents and Camping Outfits g
1 Gun and Bicycle Repairing
| 639 LIBERTY AVENUE
PITTSBURGH, PA.
iliiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiniiiiiiinniiiininiiiniiiniiiiiiiuiiiiiuiiuiiiiiiiiiiinniiiiHiiiiiiiHiiiiniiiiiiiniiiiliii1DO YOU DANCE?!
 DANCING LESSONS CLASS AND PRIVATE |
Special Class for High School and College Students, Starting Mon- E 
day, October 15, at 8:00 P. M.
JACQUES DANCING ACADEMY 
CRAIG AND FORBES BELL PHONE |
Resources Over 
$100,000,000
M3i3MiSMclMSM3J3MSMSMD!MSMSJc!M3J 
H WEBER EXPRESS AND |
gj STORAGE COMPANY 
Ej Bell Phone 239 Schenley. |
Hj Moving, Packing and Storing | 
of Furniture and Pianos. Gen* g 
[jb eral Hauling Baggage to and E
ffi 4616-18-20 HENRY STREET | 
PITTSBURGH |
PHOTOGRAPHS 
OF OUR
SOLDIERSBATTERY
H 242 S. HIGHLAND AVENUE |
436 Seventh Ave. I 
All Kinds of BATTERIES jf
ERepaired and Recharged |
"-ifMttir TYPEWRITERS 
RENTED 
Late models. 
Three months for 
$7.00. Special 
rates to students. 
Guaranteed Factory Rebuilt Machines.
American Writing Machine 
Company
630 PENN AVENUE 
Bell Phone Grant 1374 
Special Monarch Visible, 3 mo, $5.
SERVICE
SJSMSJSMSMEiSMEJHJSMSJSMc/SMEJSJ
W. O. Breckon
STUDIOS
iJCJDJCiJCJClJlJlJCiJliilDlIJtJlJUJf3/3.
A COMPARISON.Oakland Savings & Trust Co
THE OAKLAND BANK
The Kaisers charge to his soldiers: 
You will take no prisoners, you will 
show no mercy, you will give no quar
ter, you will make yourselves as terri
ble as the Huns under Attila. 
Pershings charge to his men: 
"Young soldiers of America: You
are here in France to help repel an in
vading enemy; but you are also here 
to lift a shield above the poor and 
weak; you will safeguard all property; 
you will lift a shield above the aged 
and the oppressed; you will be most 
courteous to women, gentle and kind 
to the little children, guard against 
temptation of every kind, fear God, 
fight bravely, defend Liberty, honor 
your native land. God have you in I-Ils 
keeping.
Some difference there! It is up to 
you to back up Pershing.
FORBES AND ATWOOD 9T8.
Phone 1603161 Schenley 
SPECIAL PRICE8 TO TECH 
STUDENTS
CAPITAL,
SURPLUS,
DEPOSITS OVER $3,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
icMSJSMSJS^
j TRANSITS AND LEVELS 
5) ALL SUPPLIES FOR THE 
DRAFTING ROOM
worthy and representative collection 
of French and English books. It has 
received, especially through M. Firm in 
Roy, of the Ministre des Affairs 
Etrangres and through M. Petit Dutaillis, Director of the Office National 
des Universities et Ecoles Francaisses 
an admirably chosen set of standard
The consciousness of consciousness 
is the term and end of analysis.2* The girls at the tables in the 
?> halls of the buildings will take 
v your message for the Kaiser.The lilies and languor of virtue, 
the roses and rupture of vice.Swinbourne.
Gillette Engineers Equipment, Instru- ') 
g mentii of Precision, Blue Print | 
! and Brown Print Papers and -j 
j Cloths.
|! B. K. ELLIOTT CO. ;j
I 126 SIXTH STREET
Dl/i3/SJtniSJSiS/cI/iiI/SJQl/Sic2n2/SJc3JiiliIiliS/u*/in/i3!/ni/eJ/(3Jt3
(Continued From l'ago One.) 
the distinction of being invited to play 
this, the most Important game on*th 
State schedule, and the Blue and 
White should be able to adequately 
test the mettle of the squad Jimmy 
Doherty will lead up to State College, 
Pa. Dohertys work on the basketball 
court this winter evoked several very 
complimentary remarks from the Stato 
team and it i certain that they will 
have equal reaped for his work on 
the diamond. To permit Tech to play 
the State Commencement, game, Beth
any postponed the game to be played 
with Tech at Bethany, West Virginia, 
to May 8. Negotiations are pending 
with Colgate, which will probably 
bring that team to Tech Field on Mon
day, May 13.
Have You Seen the New Gillettes 
Specially Designed for the Fighting Man?
T^l-IESE models were designed by members of the
Gillette Organization who have seen service with 
the Colors and know what the soldier is up against.
Hundreds of officers and men are buying themthe 
U. S. Service Set in metal case, and the new Khakicovered sets for Uncle Sams soldiers and officers.
The Gillette is the one razor for the man who is do
ing thingsthe one razor with world-wide use and 
reputation.
When a man wants new Blades he can get them at 
any Post Exchange or Y. M. C. A. Huthere in 
America or Overseas.
Our Paris Office carries stocksis constantly sup
plying the American Expeditionary Forces. Gillette 
Safety Razors and Blades on sale everywhere in 
France, England, Italy and the Eastern battle fronts.
I* A good placo to got a good meal. 
Meet your friends here on 
Sunday evening.
I FRED SUDDEBY, Proprietor. 
CRAIG AND FORBES
THE mni
SENSIBLE If I
TYPEWRITER |%J 
FOR THE ji
STUDENT m
(Continued From Page One.) 
nected with Tech should subscribe 
through these people and every one is 
expected to subscribe. The boys in 
Industries School have organized and 
are arranging to have their own per
sonal canvass of their school and will 
turn over all subscriptions to the 
chairman. This effort Is much appre
ciated by the committee. The idea 
which the Industries School started 
with the Second Liberty Loan, of buy
ing a class bond to contribute toward 
a memorial, has already been followed 
by the Margaret Morrison Senior class 
and it is hoped that every class and 
organization will follow suit. Perhaps 
It would interest the student body to 
know that the majority of subscrip-1 
tions so far have come from the Mar
garet Morrison School.
More to Contend With in His Shaving 
than The Fighting Man
It has done service all over the mapfrom the 
deserts of Palestine to the icy spindrift of the 
North Seafrom Flanders to the remotest island 
in the East Indiesand has proved itself the real 
razor for service.
Complete, compact for the pack or the pocket 
no strops or hones to clutter up the kit. Elades 
always sharp, always readyand No Stropping 
No Honing.
IfiND nobody knows better the bracing effects pf a clean shave.His shaving water may be cold, it may be 
hard, his skin wind-chapped or tender from sun
burn. Yet, on every Allied Front, and 011 every 
Allied battleship, he keeps himself clean-shaved 
and he uses the Gillette Safety Razor.
( The Gillette has solved and simplified every 
shaving problem put up to it by the boys in khaki 
or navy blue. /
Daily Thought.
Good sense must in many cases de
termine good breeding; because the 
same thing that would be civil at one 
time, and to one person, may be quite 
otherwise at another time and to an
other person, but there are souk? gen
eral rules of good breeding that holdCo^oHGILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR COMPANY
BOSTON, MASS., U. S. A.
(EAAhrrh dKahri YKBHC LH21K9io Ha LK9KnKso urns 
gt drs SAhwK9nhC drso eH9rChKA
(EAAhrrh dKahri YKBHCo uE2Erhn 
fcc (ChKr bHCrAK9n drso uH9nH9o lso m9GAK9n
(WAAhrrh dKahri YKBHC dH,EhrD S9H9i2D 
17 Bis, YUh uK .HDrEDo bKCEMo FCK9,h
VhnH:K 3HME NUECE9H 0 FEHAE 
VEK dh9KrHo yo eEAK9o rKAr
A. G. Mi ,prhAhM z'
t uErhE9io bhrCHGCKno YUMMEK
always true and in all cases,Chester
field. ___________________________________
CAMERAPHONE
EAST LIBERTY
THURSDAY, FRIDAY AND 
SATURDAY 
MARY GARDEN
"THE SPLENDID SINNER
The Personal Writing Machlno 
So simple in construction 
and operation that any
one can use It without 
previous experience. : :
WEIGHS 6 POUNDS 
Price $50
Coll 343 Court or Write
Standard Typewriter Co.
129 FIFTH AVENUE 
FREE DEMONSTRATION 
OPEN EVENING8
raiMiiiiiiH
06904421

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April 17, 1918THE TARTANPage Four
P.LUDEBUEHLC SON
SHOES AND HOSIERY PEI AND FBKTOWN
Footprints Lead to Detection
A committee of young men from the 
various educational institutions of the 
city, working under the auspices of 
the East Liberty Y. M. C. A., have ar
ranged a series of Sunday afternoon 
meetings for young men and older 
boys. At these meetings some strong 
speakers are presented who are speak
ing along the general topic of what a 
young man can do in the continuance 
of the war, that it may be' brought to 
an early and successful close.
Last Sunday, H. A. McMonnaughey, 
who recently came to this country 
after spending some time with the 
Russian forces at the front and was in 
letrograd during the revolution 
spoke at some length pn Why Russia 
Failed.
Ghas. Foster, principal of Manches
ter School, gave a most interetsing 
talk on How Can a Young Man Use 
His Vacation to Help Win the War.
Next week it is expected to have two 
Canadian soldiers, just back from the 
front, who will give some interesting 
facts about the recent developments 
there. Dr. L. Bugbee, of Christ M. E. 
Church, will also speak on the topic, 
The Challenge to the Young Man to 
Sacrifice and Service. Good music is 
a feature of the gatherings.
Next week the meeting will be in 
charge of Tech men, and it is expected 
that a large number of students will 
be present. Watch for posters and 
cards.
The standing of a man is as oftr-> 
as not told by his footwearif he  
careless of that, hes apt to be negl.- 
gent of more important things. It 
you will buy your shoes here, you may 
be certain of looking all right, feeling 
all right and impressing others with 
the fact that you are all right. Oun 
Shoes are built by some of the most; 
representative Shoe Manufacturers in 
the world.It is a source or great 
satisfaction to the 
thousands upon thousands 
of men who wear
Our Great Removal Sale Offer!
Hart, Schaffner & Marx
$30.00 SUITS Hn 71Good ClothesFeaturing Swagger Ijl 
Models for Young men llj
at the low price of........ 1 v
To buy this world famed clothing 
at this low price is a most unusual 
opportunity and every alert young 
man should take advantage of this 
wonderful offer.
to know that here they are safe
guarded against the question
able worth of much of the 
clothing offered broadcast 
to-day, and that as in seasons 
past they can buy the Suits 
and Topcoats they want at
V V V V V V V V V V V V V V V V
The Bolsheviki did not buy 
Liberty Bonds; but who wants 
to be a Bolsheviki?
I* V V V ' -V *1- V * V V *!- VSmithfield and Diamond Streets
OFFICERS and ENLISTED MEN
who.are here at school for a short time, and need 
anything in the line of Uniforms, Leggins and Hats 
will do well to visit our establishment. 
We sell only regulation uniforms, at a lower 
price than you can buy them elsewhere.
Absolutely First Class In Every Eespect. 
We Manufacture Our Own Product.
Well ring the Liberty Bell again as it 
never rang before,
Well make it knell and knell again, to 
Berlins very door
And when the door is opened, America 
will sing,
We have a dish of U. S. Bonds, to set 
before your king.
The bonds can be converted .to what 
surpasses gold
To guns, and ships, and khaki, and 
aeroplanes untold;
And when they are converted, America 
will sing,
Now, what a fine, efficient food, fit for 
the German king!3037-40 JENKINS ARCADE, PITTSBURGH, PA.
So ring the Liberty Bell with Bonds, 
as it never rang before,
And make it knell and knell again, be
fore the Kaisers door;
And for each Bond of Freedom, the j 
bell will raise its din,
For that same Bond Is paving the road
way to Berlin.drafting
tracing!G, Reading, Pittsburgh (: Stores), Syracuse, WilkesDIXONS
The program presented by the stu
dents in the Department of Music, 
School of Applied Design (J. Vick 
OBrien, director), on Sunday evening, 
April 14, called forth a good sized au
dience which demonstarted its appre
ciation by liberal applause.
The opening number was Bachs 
Prelude and Fuge In C minor, for 
organ, played by Mr. Charles Pearson; 
as his maiden effort, it was an accept
able performance, but marred by a 
noisy pedal. This faulty mechanism 
should be remedied, in fairness to the 
performer.
The Sonate for cello and piano, 
(Mozart), Miss Alix Einert, cello, Miss 
Edna Tilghman, piano, proved an inter
esting number. Miss Einert's work 
shows improvement, both In her sense 
of tone-quality and in facility of tech
nique.
In Schuberts Sonate, for piano, A 
minor, Miss Ruth Watson was at her 
best in the second and last movements. 
She is a new candidate for public 
favor; her tone is full and her tech
nique facile, and she possesses that 
very valuable thing known as poise. 
She also has the courage of her convic
tions and never omits a repeat, which 
is a mistake in a number of this 
length. The composition became mo
notonous and uninteresting under this 
treatment, not, being sufficiently bril
liant to hold the attention for thirty 
minutes. Two movements would have 
been ample for this program.
Unquestionably the most brilliant 
number on the program was the First 
Movement of Wieniawslcis Corcerto 
in D minor, for violin, played by Mr. 
Louis Hammerschlag, who, in this his 
first appearance, made a very favorible impression, as was attested by 
the rounds of applause which followed 
this number. His work gives unmis
takable evidence of a high order of 
talent. He was visibly nervous, which 
interfered with the poise, but in spite 
of that it was a noteworthy perform
ance of this very difficult number. One 
anticipates his name on future pro
grams with pleasure.
Miss Helen Eshelman closed the 
program with Smetanas lovely "By 
tin* Seashore,, (a memory), and Cho
pin's Impromptu in G flat. In these 
two -compositions she had sheer mu
sical beauty to deal with and proved 
herself its worthy interpreter. Her 
tone was especially rich and beautiful 
in the first number and her interpre
tation at once sympathetic and poet
ical. She was accorded hearty ap
plause.
Twohearts 
with but a 
single wish
-MURAD.
i/te master drawing pencil 
Clean, clear lines 
that do not smudge
legrees At all stationers9
Makers of the Bqhssi GmkTuriend Egyptian.Qgaraltcs uitlta U<
H STRINGS AND SUPPLIES FOR ALL MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS |
a New and Slightly Used Band and String Instruments of All Kinds at g
Bargain Prices. ||
^ HIGH GRADE GUITARS SPECIAL FOR THIS WEEK (h
j|] Standard or concert sizes, rosewood, oak and mahogany with f|
 hardwood neck and good machine bound edges and sound hole. E
Perfect scale guaranteed. Value $10.00. CC ft ft i
[a Special this week.......................................................................................... fViUU a
B A Y T "ST* T> * C1 929 LIBERTY AVENUE B A L/JL/IlN OlL/K ^ Established 1854 ffi
TU.RKiS!L
^CARETTE
FORBES AND ATWOOD STREETS 
Oakland
SPECIALS FOR MEN
lomiUHoo.
in black, white, grey and champagne, all sizes
25c a pair
Bath Towels, Face Towels, Suit Cases, Bags and everything needed 
by the soldiers.
FORBES AND ATWOOD STREETS 
Within walking distance of the Tech School.THE TURKISH CIGARETTE
