Football 
Tech vs. Allegheny 
Tech Field, Saturday
Football Dance 
Union 
Saturday Night
VOL. XIV. No. 5CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAOCTOBER 29; 1919
Drama School Presents Synges 
Comedy, The Well of the Saints
Irish Character Study Well Done and 
Warmly Received.
Last Thursday evening the Drama 
Department presented their first per
formance of J. M. Synges Well-of 
the Saints, before the College Presi
dents Association of 'Pennsylvania. 
Before this critical assembly the Irish 
play ran very well and evoked warm 
applause.
The piece is a comedy of Irish 
character and derives its material 
from the peasantry of Erins Isle, 
from the lowest of the peasantry 
the beggarSj and from the most af
flicted of the beggarsblind mendi
cants. It is placed over a century back 
as an act of mercy to we who demand 
exactness in our play-seeing, for beg
gar, peasant and priest express them
selves admirably in fluted notes of 
poetic prose and vista-opening simile 
though they rip up the great veins of 
humanity with the coarse clots of the 
earth still clinging. We of the dull 
stodgy clay, we, the average theatre
goer, may disagree, yea, resent even, 
the morals and the ethics of this play 
but may not resist the mesmeric 
breath of Synge which, with true Irish 
irresponsibility leaps from crag to bog 
in kaleidescopic imaginings. We fol
lowif we can, if we cant, we damn 
him.
In a nut-shelland a very small 
onethe scaffold of the play is this: 
an old blind couple, Martin and Mary 
Doul, who make their Jiving by beg
ging at the crossing of the road, 
though contented, long for their sight 
again; he, so that he may gaze upon 
beauty of the young girls he knows 
by their voices, and she, that she may 
see more sights such as a man hang
ing by his neck. A passing Saint 
drops on their eyelids water from the 
well of the four saints and they see 
again, and discry in each other two 
pitiful shows instead of what they 
had always been told(through pity 
or chaff) that they were the wonders 
of the western world. They quarrel 
and separate. But seeing folks, they 
learn, must earn their living1 and 
Martin Doul while working listlessly 
for Timmy the Smith provokes Molly 
Byrne by his bad and wilful words 
and Timmy the Smith with hot words 
sends him forth. Martin and Mary 
meet again afflicted with blindness, 
become reconciled to it and to each 
other. The Saint comes again but 
they call upon the Lord to protect 
them from the Saints of God and re
fuse to be cured claiming it was as 
much their right to be sitting blind 
hearing a soft wind turning the 
leaves as it is his to be holy. The 
peasants nor Saint either understood 
this perverseness and the two are 
driven off with stones.
It fell to Carl Reid to handle the 
difficult role of Martin Doul. We 
must say that he did it well, especialy 
the insidious and obstinate phases of 
the character. He also did not try to 
dominate the stage which was correct. 
He missed a great deal of the part, 
however. The magnificent scene where 
lie walks out of the church with his 
sight restored lacked an intensity 
which such a tremendous incident 
would warrant. Instead, he allowed 
the lines to swing him on too quickly. 
This lack of intensity was also evi
dent in the third act when he thought 
lie was alone and strove for the 
grasping of the old sounds again. 
Here Mr. Reid might have laid the. 
obscure imagery of the blind in our 
hands. But he didnt. He talked 
straight to the audience with Synges 
lines in his mind, instead of pausing 
to hear and allowing trenchant si
lences to settle in and then to mumble 
low to himself. There was also a 
lacking facial expression which might 
have spoken equally as fluently as his 
tongue. There ought to have been a 
great deal of humor to old Martin 
Doul which Mr. Reid apparently never 
realized. It would have made him far 
more lovable and livable. However, 
Mr. Reids voice is very clear, very 
mellow though he would gain much 
by varying its pitch and volume.
Mary Doul as portrayed by Mary 
Ricards was a consummate perform
ance. Hers is a lyric voice, her acting 
has all the quiet plausibleness of 
realism. In Mary Doul her voice and 
pantomine joined hands. And she 
contributed much beyond what was 
asked of her by the part. We think 
nevertheless we have the feeling the 
role W'as a trifle too old for her. She
could attain more by seeking varia
tion in the pitch of her voice, also its 
tempo and intensity.
Arleigh Williamson was Timmy the 
Smith. In appearance his face was 
genuinely Irish. But Mr. Williamson 
made us uneasy. He was entirely too 
strained and forced. We had no re
lief. His voice had a lieai*ty cordiality 
and ready joviality but he was not 
easy. He could have had more lazy 
strength.
The hair of Alma Lotz shone like 
a red taper whenever she stepped 
forth as Molly Byrne. Her voice also 
was pleasing. She drew up brimming 
buckets from an apparently real well 
not the well of the saints but that 
of Timmy the Smithand we saw 
her pour real water into another real 
bucket, by the thimble-full. She fell 
down much when she decided she had 
had enough of Martins talk and call
ed out Timmy in that curious way 
actors have of calling and not raising 
their voices.
Howard Claney bore the sight heal
ing water with saintly abstraction. He 
was too abstracted for a professional 
saint and too haughty for a real one. 
He strode upon the aloof stilts of 
Dante. Should not there have been 
a kindliness, a paternal feeling about 
him? His voice is very good, how
ever. 
.We also liked the red hair of Ellen 
Crowe and Carolyn Meringo. Do all 
the girls of Ireland belong to a RedHeaded League?
The crowd of villagers were very 
varied and very active and displayed 
all the unanimity of the one-time Ger
man army at calesthenics.
B. I. Dickinson said his too few 
lines with a convincing own convic
tion. There was a pleasing break to 
his voice.
The lighting of the piece was ef
fectively atmospheric, though we, 
could have seen more of the faces1 
when they came under the shadow of 
the silhouetted trees. But more ef
fort was made in this direction than 
hitherto and we hope, if the results 
are such, there will be more of it.
The sets had a nice simplicity and 
the repetition of the cyclorama was 
not unduly noticeable. The forge 
could have been better constructed 
but it had an indigenous Irish sang 
froid. It is exceedingly hard to make 
a ruinmuch less paint one. Mr. 
Gaither deserves credit for ruining 
his church as much as he did. And 
no pun intended.
All in all, we welcome the Well of 
the Saints. It is a promising sign
post for the year.
--------------------ALLEGHENY NEXT OPPONENT E EXPECTED
The fast Allegheny College team 
will visit Tech field next Saturday and 
much interest is being shown as to 
this game. The last game played be
tween these teams was in 1917 when 
on a muddy, field neither team could 
score. There is quite a bit of rivalry 
between Tech and Allegheny and a 
large crowd of supporters are ex
pected to accompany the team. As a 
general rule the team is light but 
very fast and rely upon an open at
tack. In fact they have made a name 
for the open game it resorts to on the 
gridiron, one of the effects of the at
tention paid to basketball, which has 
always been their major sport.
A feature of the game will be a 
family affair when Baldwin of Tech 
meets his brother who is playing end 
for Allegheny. On an end run they 
are sure to meet and one or the other 
be spilled. Coach Steffan hopes to 
have several hard workouts this 
week so as to have his charges in the 
best physical shape and also drill them 
in some new plays for the Cornell 
game, which looms up bigger every 
day.
The record of the season is expected 
Saturday as the Meadville institution 
has a very large following in this 
section of the country and have asked 
for a reserved section. Another rea
son for a large crowd is that Pitt is 
away and the game is the only college 
game to be played in the city.
^iiiaiiBUiuiiiHaHiipiiuuiBiiuHiHiininiiDiiiiiBiiHiuHiiiiiuiiiiiiiiinniiiiiiiiiimiiiniiiminniitiiiniiianiiiisDiiiaBHnnffliiuiireiininiiyiiHiiniiiiiiiuiiiiiiiaiHnHmBiifliiniBiiiimiuuni^ 
B M
Co-operate
Buy Your Thistle Receipt 
No ReceiptNo Book
felllllllllllllIlBIIIIIIIIllllIlIlHIIlHIHIlllIlirjIIIIHIIIIHinilinilllllIlHOiHIBinillilUIHIlHillllllUlirirlilili'tiililllillllllHlllilIimillinillfiHtllBnHfllUllIKI'Jlilillil^illiiIlM
14-0- 
NEXT GAME WITH KISKI
The Freshmen football team journ
eyed to New Kensington last Friday 
and applied the whitewash to the high 
school team of that place by score of 
140.
Coach Hazel took 22 men on the 
trip- and nearly all of them got in the 
game. He wished to get a little line 
on some of the men, so as to have 
the best team possible for the game 
this Saturday with Kiski. At times 
the Freshmen showed to a great ad
vantage and at other times were very 
wfcak in the line. The coach hopes 
to eliminate this and have a good team 
ready for the harder games of the 
season.
Before' the game Anderson was 
elected captain and will make a good 
leader. Much of the work of the backfield will fall to him as he is a large 
and ideal fullback. Gibson at quarter 
ran the team well and was a hard man 
to stop in the open field. Once he zig
zagged thru for a run of 30 yards and 
a touchdown.
The other touchdown was scored 
on a long forward pass to Wetzel who 
fell over the goal line. Capt. Ander
son kicked both goals.
Line-up:
Freshmen. . New Kensington.
Hawkins...........L. E......................Delotts
Halabash .........L. T.....................Schultz
McClean............L. G...............Mooreliead
Lichenstein ...........C................Criss (C)
Hedgrin.............R. G................Salhodsky
Griffin................R. T........................Veach
Wetzel ...............R. E......................Anteso
Gibson ........................Q.....................Bloom
Emory................L. H.................Albertson
Albertson.........R. II..................Reynolds
Anderson (C) -------F...............Murray
Touchdowns: Wetzel and Gibson.
Goals from touchdown Anderson (2). 
Referee, Stansbury.' * Umpire, Cox.
Time, 12 minute quarter.
CARNEGIE TECH CHAPTER OF A. A. E.
On Friday afternoon a meeting was 
held in room 122, Science, to organize 
a chapter of the American Associa
tion of Engineers. Mr. Stimm, who is 
already a member of the organization, 
presided. Mr. F. E. N. Thatcher, who 
is secretary of the Pittsburgh Chap
ter gave a talk on the advantages of 
joining the organization. A motion 
was made and. carried to form a pe
titioning chapter, which will become a 
regular student chapter as soon as 
twenty members are regularly admit
ted to the association. Mr. Stimm 
was elected temporary president and 
Mr. Fox, temporary secretary of the 
new chapter.
The Association is trying to get all 
those who are taking engineering 
courses at Tech to become student 
members. There is no entrance fee, 
and the annual dues are $3 per year, 
half of which is used by the Chapter 
itself. Any one who joins is fully 
repaid in services received from the 
national organization. The purpose 
of the association is to unite the en
gineers to raise the standard of ethics 
in the profession, and to promote so
cial and economic welfare of engin
eers.
One of the chief functions is to ob
tain higher pay. The engineers, as a 
profession, are poorly paid for the 
great services they render and the 
American Association is very success
fully carrying out a campaign to have 
these conditions rectified. Another 
service is the Employment Depart
ment, by which a member can obtain 
a position which exactly fits him, and 
which will, generally, give him a high
er salary than if obtained through 
other means.
The Association by having a large 
number of members will become an 
important political factor in'the coun
try in the interests of engineers. Thus 
engineers will be able to obtain good 
municipal, state, and national posi
tions with the best of working condi
tions.
It is hoped that all engineering stu
dents in the school will join the Chap
ter. No one who joins will regret 
that he took the step and he will reap 
a great benefit from his membership.
--------------------
TECH NIGHT AT SHADYSIDE.
Arrangements have been made for 
a Tech night at Shadyside Presbyter
ian Chuvch, corner of Amberson and 
Westminster avenues, next Sunday 
evening, November 2nd. Shadyside is 
the nearest church to Tech, in fact is 
Techs own church as its members al
ways show an unusual amount of in
terest toward the Tech student body.
The special music alone will be well 
worth hearing while Dr. Kerrs ser
mons always give one something to 
think about as those who have heard 
him well know.
M. M. D. will be there too, but they 
will be glad to go with you fellows so 
get busy. Lets not make it a stag 
party.
Pitt is going to have a night in the 
near future, lets set a mark that they 
will not be able to approach. Re
member, corner of Ambersen and 
Westminster avenues (just off of 
Fifth) at 8 p. m. next Sunday evening.
INDUSTRIES PLEBES ARE 
ENTERTAINED AT SMOKER
The largest and best smoker held 
at Tech so far this year was given 
by the Industries Sophomores in Car 
negie Union on Tuesday evening, Oc
tober twenty-first. The Plebes were 
the guests of honor of the occasion, 
but all members of the Division were 
invited, as well as a number of in
structors. They all attended, and 
needless to say, were more than glad 
chat they had come, for a lively eve
ning was certainly planned for their 
entertainment.
Tags were furnished, on which each 
man wrote his name and address, and 
n this way the new men got acquaint
ed with the old men and, each other, 
and each found out who else came 
from his neck of the woods, which 
proved quite interesting. Good music 
helped to liven the crowdit was fur
nished by a Jazz Band which the 
Sophomores organized for the event. 
A fast boxing bout was also olTered 
for the guests amusement, and four 
reels of screamingly funny comic films 
made the audience howl.
Among the speakers of the evening 
were Dean Connelly, whom all the 
old men welcomed heartily. Dean 
Morris gave a short but interesting 
talk, and Dr. Marks spoke at length 
on athletics in general.
Coach Wm. Hazel was next called 
upon, and replied with a heated appeal 
to the Freshmen to come out for ath
letics, or if unable to participate them
selves, to at least give the teams their 
support.
P. D. Good took this opportunity 
to bring to mind the condition of the 
team in regard to blankets, and a 
collection was taken to raise funds 
with which to buy some. The hat was 
passed, and $40.15 was the net re
sult, a very good showing indeed. This 
makes Industry the first school to con
tribute toward the purchase of these 
much-needed articles.
Other speakers were Prof. William 
Pfouts, Mr. Manning, Mr. Calderwood, 
Mr. Dozey, Red Oakley, and Mr. 
McKee, who was a member of the 
first Science Graduating Class, and is 
now an instructor in Industries.
Yergey led a number of cheers.
The last, but probably not the least 
enjoyable thing on the program was 
the eats, which consisted of cider, 
doughnuts, hot-dog sandwiches', pic
kles, and smokes enough to make 
everyone leave in a contented state of 
mind.
GRAPHICA IAS CARO
CAMPAIGN UNDER WAY
The students in the Department of 
Printing arc ready to open the annual 
Graphica Christmas Card Campaign. 
This year there, have been selected 
four cards of unusual and very at
tractive design, an appropriate verse 
or wish is expressed on each card. 
The purchasers of the Graphica cards 
receive another important feature, 
namely, a degree of individuality 
which is obtained by printing the buy-' 
ers name on the cards. Envelopes 
arc furnished with every card.
The cards are printed in delicate 
and harmonious tints on correct paper 
and all told are splendid examples of 
the designers and printers art. In 
brief the designs are described as fol
lows: - (a) The Plum Pudding, this 
card is printed in three tints on a 
high-grade card; as is also (b), a 
pleasing hand-lettered design in three 
colors. Design (c) designated as 
The Cottage is a dainty little folder 
on an antique declded-edged paper in 
tints and represents a winter scene 
with a snow-bound cottage in the dis
tance. Design (d) presents the Yuletide greetings by Musicians on a fold
er of two colors.
Within the present week agents will 
be selected to handle the distribution 
and sale of these cards. Watch your 
bulletin boards for important an
nouncements. Liberal commissions 
are offered and in addition three cash 
prizes of $5, $3, and $2 will be given 
to the three making the largest num
ber of sales.
The card campaign is conducted by 
the Graphica annually to supply the 
students and their friends with at
tractive and individual greetings of 
the season. The proceeds of the sale 
is used to-finance the Graphica schol
arship which is given to the entering 
first-year men in the department.
The progress of the campaign will 
be graphically shown on large banners 
on which the sales of the several dif
ferent cards will be recorded daily.
The work on the entire campaign 
is done by the students oi the depart
ment under the direction of C. R. 
Spicher, Instructor in Press Work, 
who will act as General Manager. 
James J. Rudisill has been designated 
as student manager and W. D. Hall, 
treasurer. C. J. Shaw is Superinten
dent of Typography while the ma
chine composition is under the direc
tion of II. Brayer. The presswork is 
superintended by B. S. Shumate. Advestising and Publicity is being done 
by a committee With Lenly Hawksworth as superintendent. -
Plaid Gridders Hold Lehigh
To Low Score of 16--0
Although Heavily Outweighed, 
Put Up Gallant Fight.
Godden and Wittner Star.
They
TICKET SALE BOOMING FOR BOHEMIA UNLIMITED
Tickets are now on sale and going 
fast for the production of the musical 
extravaganza Bohemia,- Unlimited, 
to be given by- the Division of the 
Arts at the Schchley Theatre, Novem
ber 21st and 22nd.  It is even antici
pated that the- play may be forced to 
continue for at least one or two- more 
nights.in order, to accommodate those 
who wish to see it and .will. not be 
able to secure seats for either of the 
two scheduled nights.
Exchange- tickets may be obtained 
from the following representatives:
' Indstris-^G.'T. Miller, J. Batman. 
M; M. D:Mary Bechtel.
ScienceII. Paffenbach, II. Wade. 
DesignG, Todd, R. Diercks.
Also froni the following agencies:
Mellors...........................Downtown
Hays Book Store.........East End
Forbes Quality Shop ... Oakland.. 
These tickets may be exchanged for 
reserved seats one week before the 
performance.
SCIENCE ASSEMBLY HELD
Last Wednesday the Science Assem
bly was] heldin, the Union because it 
has been loiind that tlio lecture hall 
in the Science Building is much too 
small. Some of the students sat in 
the chairs and on the tables, but by 
far the greater number sat tailor fash
ion on the rugs. After singing the 
AliYia Mater, Dean Mott spoke on 
school work, grading, etc. His talk 
was the most important item on the 
program. He first told tlio Plebes 
concerning the division of'subjects in
to general and speciul studios.  The 
general studies, such as mathematics, 
languages, economics, etc., are under 
the supervision of the central school 
while the special subjects such as En
gineering, Mechanics and other scien
tific subjects are taught by the Science 
School Faculty. He also explained the 
system of advancement requirements 
and their modifications to fit the post
war conditions.
The chief point of his talk was the 
new marking system. In this system 
the marks II (which has boon some
times used,) M, C, P, and F are abol
ished and A; B,'C, D, E, etc., used in 
their places. The classes are to bo 
divided into three according to the 
standing of the pupils, the upper third 
getting A or B, the middle third C 
and the lower third D or E; By this 
method the plebes and sophomores 
arc put on a competitive.basis so that 
this year the separation of the sheep 
from the goats will be more systemat
ic than in former years and quite as 
thorough. Dean "Mott assured the 
students that there would be quite a 
number of goats in the two lower 
classes. The juniol-s and seniors are 
much safer but can -easily acquire 
brown slips.
Colonel Brooks then announced the 
arrangements for the reception of 
King Albert and told how he had se
cured good seats in Forbes Field for 
Tech.
Dean Tarbell spoke a few words. 
After a number of miscellaneous an
nouncements and cheering practice 
the assembly adjourned.
THIRD FOOTBALL DANCE ENJOYED BY MANY
The third football dance of the year 
held last Saturday night after the Le
high game proved to be by far the 
best of the series. The new jazz or
chestra was a decided improvement. 
Apparently the management had prof
ited by their experience of the week 
previous,- for everything went 'off* in 
fine shape, and the general sentiments 
of those present was that the affair 
was a decided success,
Fighting gallantly against an eleven 
that outweighed them considerably, 
the varsity was defeated Saturday by 
the strong Lehigh team. The latter 
presented the best team that ever vis
ited Tech Field, having a fast backfield and a powerful well-balanced 
line, which seemed at times to sweep 
everything before it. The only thing 
that Lehigh lacked Was fight and this 
Tech had, the kind that knows defeat, 
but is fighting harder at the last min
ute than at any, other stage of the 
game.
Coach Steffan made a couple of 
changes in his line and this showed to 
a great advantage. This was especial
ly noticeable when twice they held the 
heavy Lehigh backs for downs on the 
olie-yard line. Again when the visi
tors scored their first touchdown tlity 
had to try four times to make five 
yards and then the ball was just across the line. :
But now for the bright spots of the 
.game. Godden and Wittmer played: a 
fine .game at end and showed that 
they could be depended upon to show 
real football the rest of the seasMi. 
At center Irwin put up a peach of a
game and seemed to be in every play.
Roth was hurt on the kick-off and will 
be laid up for some time with a bad 
knee. Outside of this the team came 
through the hardest game played so 
far without injuries.
Lehigh16 Carnegie Tcch0
Larkin...............L. E.....................Wittmer
Spagna.............L. T....................Williams
McDonald-----L. G................Roberts
Goldman......................C.....................Irwin
McCarthy.........R. G..........................Roth
Booth ...............R. T..........................Moon
Wilson .............R. E.......................Goddon
Herrington...........Q....................Flotcher
Liston .............. L. II............P. Marshall
Savaria ............R. II.....................Baldwin
Wysoclci ......................F.................Loomis
Score by periods:
Lehigh...............0 G 7 31<>
Carnegio  ....0 0 0 0 0
Substitutions:' LehighSmith ''for 
Savaria; Dougla for Wysoclci; Carlson 
for Douglas; Good for Liston; Cole
man for Herrington; Saxman for Lar
kin; Guliclc for Wilson; Johnson for 
Spagna; OHoarn for Booth; Cussick 
for McCarthy; Magi linos for .McDon
ald; Baden for Goldman; White for 
Smith. CarnegieFlannery for Roth; 
Hayes for Wittmer; Wittmer for 
Hayes; Tommol for Curtis; Curtis for 
Carey; Caroy for Flannery. Touch
downsWysoclci, Wilson. Goal from 
fieldHerrington. Goal from touch
downHerrington. RefereeDurfo'o 
(Williams.) UmpireDex Very
(Penn State.) Head linesman....Knox
(Yale.) Time of periods15 minutes.
FORTY GIRLS SEE DANCERS. HAS GUESTS OF PRESIDENT
On Friday evening about forty girls 
from Maragaret Morrison attended 
the performance by the Duncan Danc
ers. The girls were the guests* erf 
President Hamorschlag. Miss Cole
man, Miss Patton, Miss Spurrier and 
Miss Harrison chaperoned the party. 
The girls greatly appreciated the op
portunity to see the famed dancers 
and wish to extend their thanks to Mr. 
Hamerschlag for his kind invitation.
-ft-M. NI. D. ;
At the weekly assembly Dean .Breed 
spoke to the girls about reading. Some 
of the things she said certainly struqlc 
home and made many of the girls reU,- 
lize their lack of appreciation of the 
many opportunities open to them.
The Dean made a great many sug
gestions, for the girls to follow if 
they desired, by which a greater 
knowledge and appreciation of bookM 
might be obtained. By books she 
meant not' the popular light fiction 
and best sellers but those books which 
make up literature. A great many 
good resolutions were made which, if 
they are faithfully kept, will be of iihmeasureable value to those who made 
them.
iiiiiitniiiiiDiiiiii!niiiiiiiiiiiiini!i!iiiii!mri
Are you going to Cornell
A 3 Day Trip $25.19 
Includes Everything 
See Niagara Falls
aimiUtJ-:::,. ;; i.,:i  i'IflllllllllllllllllllllDllllllllllilllil'llllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllHJtlllte
^

---------------------------------------------------

PA TWO
------------------------------- MaiMm vacuum
Published every Week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Activities Board.
Entered in the postoffice of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
This year $1.60
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
5c the copyCanada, $1.75
Editor-in-Chief. . . . 
Business Manager
Phone Schenley 3743 
Phone Hazel 9425.
"THE TARTANWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1919
EDITORIALSchool Editors
Managing EditorM. M. C. S.............Margaret J. Griffon
L. K. PaquinScience....................J. K. W. Macalpine
Industries...........................J. R. RudisillAssistant Managing Editors
F. I. SmithOther AssistantsC. L. LakeH. C. Haldeman
News EditorR. G. Welsh
C. M. BlackburnL. A. McCardell 
Arthur LubinAssociate News  EditorsJ. R. Barrow
J. T. AmesGertrude Baton
W. D. HallMurgaret Stolzenbaugh
Athletic Editor 
H. W. LynnOlga Kiefer
Assistant Athletic EditorBUSINESS STAFF
G. R. GoodrichD. A. Sillers 
N. E. Fox
Circulation ManagerWm. Obenour
H. G. AtchleyM. I. Cohen
TARTAN OFFICE............................................................................Room 162, Design
Hours1:00 to 4:00 Wednesdays.
12:00 to 1:00 Thursdays.
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the Man
aging Editor for the make up.
All business communications should be sent to the Business Manager. 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported 
at once.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the signature to be withheld if desired.
All news items must be in the student postoffice, Central Building, before 
4:30 P. M. Fridays.
TO ENCOURAGE PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
.... Last year considerable discussion arose when it was announced that all 
male students were required to take an hour of gym work every day, and 
some students even went so far as to decide to strike, which event was short 
lived. It seems that there was no incentive to encourage men to show any 
interest in the work and P. T. was called a failure, mostly because accom
modations and facilities were lacking or because the majority were too lazy 
to take the work even though they realized that it was necessary for the up
keep of their physical condition.
A new plan has come into existencenot to force anyone to exercise 
but to stimulate interest in physical education. This plan will not antagonize 
any level-headed student but should cause his interest in thi.s work, however 
small. It is, in brief, to award insignia for a number of points attained in 
general athletic and gymnastic work.
Until the war physical education was of a very specialized nature. Ev
eryone will agree that each person has a hankering for one kind of sport and 
is very inefficient in all others. This new idea creates a situation where the 
student must be as good in one as in another. In other words he cannot 
specialize in any one thing and get insignia for it. The insignia, of course, 
varies with the total number of points scored and to any student, winning 
a four-stripe Honor Division insignia, requiring one hundred and seventy 
points, means some work, and we will all have to take oil' our hat to him.
The common opinion is that the plan will be successful if the students 
become interested and work. It should be of special interest to the Fresh
men and Sophomores who have a longer time to make something out of it, 
All that is demanded is a clean bill of health, sportsmanship and cb-operation, 
It should not require special effort to fulfill these conditions.
In a very few years all Colleges and Universities will be awarding like 
insignia. Why can't Tech beat them to it?----------0----------
DISCOURTESY.
Impoliteness has never boen featured at Tech but one recent instance 
demanded criticism. When the Student Body marched over to Forbes Field, 
the new letter formation necessitated that the co-eds could not march at the 
head of the procession. However, they did not complain. Upon reaching the 
entrance to Forbes Field the gentlemen (?) all crowded in, took the front 
scats and the ladies were compelled to resort to back seats or standing room.
They have been supporting all activities to their utmost. Does this inHtnnco show appreciation of their ellorts?
And then at the same occasion a few loyal Tech students insisted on 
giving Nine Kahn Syracuse". In this encouraging friendly relations or even 
showing courtesy to the institution across the hollow?
----------$----------
WHO ARE THE MUCKERS?
"Case School of Applied Science has cut Tech light off its visiting list. 
It took a beating and went home and complained about it. It alleged all 
sorts of foolish stuff crooked, inefficient officials, hostile and intimidating 
crowd, everything. And it ab-so-lute-ly refuses to play in Tech's backyard 
again. So there 1
"On another occasion Tech met Case, three years ago, we think. That 
was in Cleveland. And Tech made Case look mighty small potatoes in the 
game. We can't remember any attempt to alibi that beatingbut then it was 
right in Cleveland, for the homelolks to see, and would have been rather 
difficult.
"One of the Clevelanders points looks good enough. Theres scarcely 
any doubt but the officials did err in throwing out a touchdown Case made, 
seemingly legally enough. But its always tough to rule out a touchdown 
made on a play that is illegal, and always provoikes partisan comment. As 
Tech beat Case 16 to 0, that touchdown wouldn't have mattered much.
"As for the other allegiationsall rot. Case got good treatment, ac 
cording to all the testimony weve been able to hear, and went home and 
squawked. And, as far as not playing any more, recent games have shown 
that Case dont quite class up with Tech, so why worry if they want to quit?
After quoting the above from one of the local papers it seems useless 
to comment upon the recent attitude shown by Case which was not that of 
sportsmanship, to say the least. This attitude was manifested even before 
the game in correspondence from their manager.
It can be said, without doubt, that no one will lament the loss of the 
name Case on our schedule. And rather than patch up matters to cater to 
them it would seem natural to suggest that athletic relations between Case 
and Carnegie be broken. This is voicing the common opinion of the student 
body.
The coach of the Cleveland aggregation should pick an earlier date than 
that of the game to protest officials. In trying to "get back by calling our 
team muckers very poor judgment was shown on his part. After all his un 
necessary remarks and "mud-slinging is it necessary to emphasize the ques 
tion asked in the heading of this article.
----------$----------
TAKING THE BAND TO CORNELL.
(By request.)
It is a fine-idea to take the band along with the team to Cornell and it 
is certainly fitting that the students should furnish the funds necessary by 
popular subscription.
The "passing the hat stunt at the Lehigh game would have been all 
right in its proper place. What idea could the people have conceived who 
ure not students at Carnegie Tech? Probably something of a charitable nature.
The proper time to make that collection would have been at the regular 
weekly assemblies and arrangements might even have been made to call 
a general assembly to assume the nature of "pop meeting before the Cornell 
game. At this meeting funds could have been provided as easily if not more 
easily than at the Lehigh game. Let it. be understood that people, not stu 
dents, who pay regular admission come as our guests, to see the game and 
be entertained by itnot to think that this is somewhat of a charitable 
institution.
The idea of taking the band to Cornell is fine but why ask the people
of Pittsburgh and vicinity to take them? This will furnish fine material for a 
"rub from neighboring institutions who were present as guests. Future 
occurrences of this kind should be guarded against.
----------0----------
Soon time this spirit of "We don't expect to win, look what we are up 
against is abolished. What results would be accomplished if our team 
went into the games with this attitude?
That is not the old fight. Get out then to the games expecting to win 
until all is over. Get the spirit of winning, not losing.
CALENDAR OF EVENTS.
November 1Football Dance...................................................................................Union
November 7Cosmopolitan Club Smoker...................................Room 52, Science
November 11Victory Holiday (tentative).
November 21 and 22Div. of Arts, Musical Extravaganza. .Schenley Theatre
November 25Carnegie Day................................................................................Classes
November 27Thanksgiving Day.............................................................No Classes
December 20First Day Christmas Recess,
January 5, 1920First Day of Winter Quarter.
OFFICIAL NOTICE.
In behalf of the students who were managing the Indian Festival on the 
evening of October 2nd, Dean Tarbcll assumed responsibility for borrowing 
43 blankets from the Supervisor of Equipment of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology. Forty-one blankets have been returned, two not having yet 
been turned in. The persons having these blankets are asked to hand them in 
at once to the Post Office in the Central Building.
This is an important request because a great many student events re
quire loans of equipment from the Institute, and the granting of these loans 
depends upon whether the property loaned for the previous similar event 
was properly returned. The Dean is always ready to be of assistance in such 
cases, but he needs the co-operation of everyone concerned in order to main
tain a satisfactory working arrangement between the student organizations 
and the department which is charged with the custody of Institute property.
SCHEDULE OF CORNELL TRIP.
Going
Nov. 7Lv. Pittsburgh 11:00 P. M.
Nov. 8Ar. Buffalo 7:01 A. M.
Nov. 8Lv. Buffalo 9:30 A. M.
Nov. 8Ar. Ithaca 12:37 P. M.
Returning
Nov. 8Lv. Ithaca 4:50 P. M.
Nov. 8Ar. Buffalo 8:05 P. M.
Nov. 9Ar. Buffalo 11:55 P. M.
Nov. 10Ar. Pittsburgh 7:55 A. M.
Oh boy! It is going to be some game and some trip. The band is going 
and it will be a real crowd that invades Ithaca on November 8th The cost 
of everything with the exception of meals will be $25.19. But man, think 
of what you get in return besides funyou see the game, you see Cornell, 
and you have more than a day to spend in Buffalo and Niagara Falls. This 
is a great opportunity for those men who have not seen the Falls. You 
the same Pullman for three daysyour hotel. Stop in the Cashiers Office 
today and see Mr. Heyl. and sign up. The full amount of $25.19 must be 
paid at the cashiers office by 5 o'clock, November 4th. Stop in today and 
sign up. ________________________
VARSITY CLAN FORMED 
AT HARRISBURG, PA.
Former Carnegie Tech students, 
who are living in Harrisburg, met on 
October 16 at 8 oclock in the Key
stone Building and organized "The 
Harrisburg Clan of the Carnegie In
stitute of Technology. This clan will 
be the Harrisburg branch of the Alum
ni Association.
The following officers were elected: 
President, Fred J. Hartman, Secretary 
of the State Industrial Board; vicepresident, Charles J. Bushong, associ
ated with the engineering department 
of the Central Construction Company; 
secretary, Miss Katharine Haag, De
partment of Labor and Industry; 
treasurer, Ritchie Lawrie, Director of 
Housing, Harrisburg Chamber of 
Commerce.
Commissioner C. B. Connelly, De
partment of Labor and Industry, for
mer dean of Industries School, ad
dressed the gathering on "The Work 
that the College Man Can Do in His 
Community. Capt. Ernest C. Arnold 
signal supply officer, Camp Gordon, 
Georgia, who had charge of the army 
educational work here during the war 
period attended the meeting and told 
of Tech's war activities.
Monthly meetings of the clan will 
be held to promote a cooperative soc
ial life of the members and to keep 
in touch with the activities of the 
Alma Mater. Committees were uppointed to arrange a memorial meet
ing and banquet for November 25, the 
date of Andrew Carnegies birthday.
Among those present at the organi
zation of the clan were: C. B. Con 
nclley, Capt. E. C. Arnold, .James W. 
Phillips, Charles W. Spahr, Charles J. 
Bushong, Miss Gertrude Broecker, O.
E. Brinot, Miss It. M. Haag, F. J. 
Hartman, C. D. Hasness, Charles 
Kaufman, Clayton Lapley, Robert E. 
L. Wildman and Ritchie Lawrie, Jr.
----------0----------A. I. E. E.
The first regular meeting of the 
Tech Branch of the A. I. E. E. was 
held on Tuesday night, October 21, 
1919. The principal business of the 
meeting was the election of officers 
for the year. Results of the election 
were:
K. K. Knaell '20, chairman; Wm. A. 
Keller '21, vice chairman; R. N. Jones 
'20, Secretary; W. J. Brennan 20, 
treasurer. F. I. Lawson 20, I. I. Gor 
man 21, C. Liskird 21, executive 
committee.
After the business meeting the fol
lowing talks were given: "Experi
mental Work at the U. S. Bureau of 
Mines, W. V. Wolfe 18; "Experi
ences with the Royal Flying Corps, 
W. S. Blanko; "War Experiences,
H. T. Goldberg, L. H. Hale, F. I. Law 
son, R. N. Jones.
The evenings entertainment con
cluded with the serving of refresh
ments Altogether the evening was 
lively and interesting and promises 
much for the future of the organiza
tion.
The meetings are of considerable 
value to any one interested in Elec
trical Engineering and as all mem
bers of the three upper classes in this 
branch are eligible to membership in 
the Institute, it is hoped that the at
tendance will be even larger at the 
next meeting, November 18.
LOST.
LostA Kappa Sigma fraternity 
pin. The pin is crescent shaped with 
a star inside the crescent. Pearls are 
used in the star. Finder please re
turn to Miss Moore, Matron of Mar
garet Morrison. Reward offered.
OAKLAND SAVINGS & TRUST COMPANY
Member Federal Reserve System 
Capital - - - $200,000.00 
Surplus and Undivided
Profits - - $260,000.90 
Deposits, Over - $4,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
TYPEWRITERS AND 
ADDING MACHINES
All makes sold, rented and 
repaired; allowing rental to ap
ply on purchase.
Underwoods Our 
Specialty 
Written guarantee with each 
machine.
Victor and Fox agency.
FORT PITT 
TYPEWRITER CO.
428 FOURTH AVENUE 
Near Post Office
Phone Court 866.
TRANSITS AND LEVELS 
ALL SUPPLIES FOR THE 
DRAFTING ROOM
Engineers Equipment, Instru
ments of Precision, Blue Print 
and Brown Print Papers and 
Cloths.
K. ELLIOTT CO.
126 SIXTH STREET
EiBMMSMSMSMSJSMI
B.
C. M. Stauft
3702 FORBES STREET 
TECH & PITT STATIONERY 
Moore, Waterman and Parker 
Fountain Pen*.
Mill
SKIB0 INN
EATS
Cigars and Candy
ESoreiSli?
FOR COLLEGE MEN
There is an excelling style atmosphere 
about our clothes "which make them instant
ly popular.
They appeal to college men not alone be
cause oi their dominating style, but largely 
on account of the high-grade tailoring and 
serviceable fabrics.
Our chain-store system affords worth-while 
savings. Visit our store nearest you and be 
convinced. Correct fit and satisfaction 
guaranteed.
OUR OWN RETAIL STORES AT
AKRON, Ohio............................124 S. Main St.
CLEVELAND, Ohio. 503-505 Prospeet Ave.
MILWAUKEE, Wis.................192 Third St.
PITTSBURGH, Pa..................507 Market St.
PITTSBURGH, Pa.. .209-11 Smithfield St.
PITTSBURGH, Pa............932 Liberty Ave.
READING, Pa..............................751 Penn St.
SCHENECTADY, N. Y.. .302-304 State St.
SYRACUSE, N. Y...............138 S. Salina St.
TERRE HAUTE, Ind. .. .410 Waiash Ave.
WILKES-BARRE, Pa............66 S. Main St.
YOUNGSTOWN O.. 107-109 W. Federal St.
We will open stores at Scranton, Pa., and 
Trenton, N. J., early in I960.
iraraxsrarararaw BHmfjcoajqg
j^lURADS are as different from
ordinary cigarettes as morning is from midnight.
If you want to economize youd better do 
it in some other way than by smoking cheap 
cigarettes.
The trifling additional cost of Murads will bring bigger returns in Quality than any investment you ever made.
Because Murads are
lOON PUKE TURKISHTHE WORLD'S MOST 
FAMOUS TOBACCO FOR CIGARETTES.
20Cents

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1919THE TARTANPAGE THREE
i2aME/0cyHiB)
P. LUDEBUEHL AND SON
PENN AND FRANKSTOWN 
AVENUES
CUT DOWN YOUR SHOE 
EXPENSE by buying better 
shoes. You will find them far 
cheaper to wear than shoes 
which are not so high in quality.
Our new models for FALL and 
WINTER are now in, and they 
are full of snapjust suitable 
for the college man.
HOLD FIRST BANQUET
The Industrial Teachers Course held 
its first social affair of the year in the 
form of a banquet last Saturday eve
ning, October 25th at the Lincoln 
Club. The President, Mr. John H. 
Moore performed the duties of toast
master for this occasion. The faculty 
advisors present were Prof. Strong, 
who has just recently assumed the 
duties of head of the course. Prof. 
Strong gave a very interesting talk 
on the great demand for Industrial 
,Veachers and Supervisors in Industrial 
Corporations. Mr. Smith of the Man
ual Training Department then said a 
few words of welcome to the members 
of the course. This was followed by 
Prof. I-Iedden, who outlined the new 
courses of study available this year. 
After a few words from various mem
bers present the banquet assumed the 
form of a social gathering. Much 
credit can be given to the Committee 
consisting of Messrs. Morris, Agnew, 
and Geisler for making this affair a 
success.
The officers of the course this year 
are as follows:
President ... .Mr. John H. Moore
V. Pres..........Mr. Fred. W. Agnew
Sec.-treas. . . Mr. Chas. N. Geisler
DELICIOUS CAKES
------for------
SOCIAL AFFAIRS
THE HALLER BAKERY
3610 FORBES STREET 
IROQUOIS BLOCK
{| THE PLACE WHERE
STUDENTS
TAKE THEIR SHOES
Bellefield 
Shoe Repairing Co.
Across from the Library
TECH BARBER SHOP
NEAREST TO TECH
Cor. Craig and Forbes
FRED FARGEL, Proprietor,
Nearest and Best Laundry 
Agency.
1 Tl
When the Pennsylvania State 
Chamber of Commerce investigated 
the housing conditions in Pennsyl
vania they found that there were 100,- 
000 homeless families in the state. So 
they formed the Housing Bureau and 
picked Ritchie Lawrie, Jr., a graduate 
in Civil Engineering at Carnegie Tech 
to direct it. Mr. Laurie has had eight 
years experience in building construc
tion and general business administra
tion. He has made extensive plans 
for the financing of housing corpora
tions and for taking up the problems 
of individual cities.
Director Laurie was a first lieutenant 
in the Ordnance Department. He was 
executive assistant to the command
ing officer of the Inspection Division 
of the Bridgeport Ordnance District, 
directing and supervising all admin
istrative matters. His training and ex
perience especially qualify him for his 
new post.
Pumpkins, cornstalks, and autumn 
leaves were used for decorations at 
the informal dance given the Fresh
men by the Sophomores in the Union, 
Friday evening, October the 24th.
A four-piece orchestra with Ralph 
Barrows at the piano furnished the 
music and fruit punch was served. The 
black programs with gold M. M. D. 
seals were unique in attractiveness.
The chaperons were Miss Svenson, 
Miss Winchester, and Mr. and Mrs. 
Conrad.
The committee in charge was: 
Eleanor Foster, Chairman, 
Mary Kirby,
Helen Hester,
Mary Jones,
Virginia Barr.
The hideous yellow armbands and 
despised cotton stockings were con
spicuous by their absence, forgotten 
entirely for the time being by both the 
Sophomores and Freshmen.
--------------------
Dear Ed
Can you tell me how to find out 
where Im going when I die?
A. Plebe. 
Ed.Yes. Eat at the beanery for 
a week. 
DO YOU DANCE?
DANCING LESSONS
JACQUES' 
CRAIG AND FORBES
CLASS AND PRIVATE 
DANCING ACADEMY
BELL PHONE
illlllllllllilllllllllllllllH 
OPEN DAY AND NIGHT
:!lllll!llllllllllllllllll!ll!llllll!llllll!llllllllll!lllllii:i| 
PARK 411-R
EAT AT THE
SAVOY RESTAURANT
SPECIAL STUDENT'S LUNCH 
3807 FIFTH AVE.
(IHM
HELLO, BILL, MEET ME AT THE
OAKLAND KITCHEN
116 OAKLAND AVENUE
iiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiIIIIIIOIIIIIIl!ll!lllll[lllllllinilllllllllllll!!!lllll!llilllli!l!l!lllllll!lllll!!!!!!lllllll:lllllll!!!ll!llllll!
BATTERY
Exide
SERVICE
IRON CITY ELECTRIC CO.
436 SEVENTH AVE. 
All Kinds of Batteries 
Repaired and Recharged
SNAPPYFRATERNITIES
ATTRACTIVE
YOUNG MENS STORE 
JAGEMAN & SPICKERT 
CLOTHINGHATSFURNISHINGS 
6121 Penn Avenue East Liberty
STUDENTS WELCOME
Fred Suddabys Cafeteria
BUREAU OF MINES BUILDING
11 A. M. to 2 P. M. Eveiy School Day
GREAT EATS AT 
THE SCHENLEY LUNCH FORBES AND CRAIG STREETS
FRED SUDDABY, Proprietor
BE EXHIBIT HELD 
AT HI.
On Friday at noon hour a shoe ex
hibit was given at Margaret Morrison. 
The advantage of a sensible shoe over 
the pointed, high-lieeled shoes was il
lustrated in attractive posters. Miss 
Coleman and Miss Patton of the 
Physical Education Department were 
in charge. No orders for shoes were 
taken but addresses of stores where 
the shoes might be bought were given. 
A great deal of interest in the ex
hibit was evinced.
GLASS ELECTIONS
At the last meeting of the Junior 
class the following elections were 
made. Miss Louise Irwin was elected 
social chairman, to take the place of 
Miss Gladys Heppy. Miss Heppy was 
elected social chairman for the junior 
year, but owing to illness is not carry
ing the full amount of credits this 
year and so is ineligible.
Miss Agnes Russell has been elect
ed to be the representative of the 
Junior class of Margaret Morrison at 
the Intercollegiate Council held at 
Wilson College the latter part of No
vember. With Miss Russell will go 
Miss Harriet Stone, representing the 
Senior Class and the Student Govern
ment Association.
Miss Margaret Griffin was elected 
Junior Representative to the Student 
Activities Board.
Miss Glenn Sheriff of the Senior 
Class, was elected school pianist with 
Miss Mary Bechtel, as her assistant.
E DANCE AT FORBES HALL
Forbes Hall hold its first dance of 
the season Friday, October 10. The 
house was attractively decorated in 
autumn leaves and Halloween decora
tions. A four-piece orchestra with 
Guy Batchellor at the piano furnished 
the music and the refreshments were 
ice cream and cake.
Miss Henman, chaperon of Forbes 
Hall was present and the committee 
in charge was:
Helen Durst, chairman,
Anna Dougherty,
Mary Jones,
Iithryn McDonald,
Martha King.----------D----------
TECH "NITE
Have you had a real old-fashioned 
good time for absolutely, positively 
nothing since you landed in Pitts
burgh? If not, you should have been 
at the Sixth Presbyterian Church, 
Forbes and Murray, on Friday eve
ning, October 17. A good get-togeth
er and social evening was enjoyed by 
all present. After a lunch of ice 
cream and cake, the party disbanded 
until November 7. At this time anoth
er social evening will be held, to which 
all Tech students are cordially invit
ed. Dont miss this, as it is going to 
be a great nite..
--------------------JUNIOR PLEBE CABARET.
The invitations issued for the cab
aret are:-
From the hours of five to eight, 
Rougish goblins anticipate 
Each Freshmans presence in the 
e:ym.
Sister Juniors fat and slim 
Haunting corners, prowling round 
May hoped to find you daintly 
gowned.
' Endless fun for you theyve planned 
November first is the date they de
mand.
All the Freshmen who are fond of 
good food and want to see the col
lege campus cops, the graveyard danc
ers, the gold dust twins, and the Span
iard who blighted my life should ac
cept the invitation.
--------------------DORMITORY SIX
ELECTS OFFICERS. 
At a meeting of the upper classmen 
of this dormitory the following of
ficers were elected:
President .. . Donald W. DuVall
Vice-Pres............Charles Altschul
Secretary........................K. M. Shen
Treas...............Roy C. Corderman
The following men were appointed 
temporary floor managers:
First floor ...................... Holbrook
Second floor.................................Shen
Third floor............................Altschul
Fourth floor . . .................... DuVall
These floor managers were appoint
ed for the reason that the men then 
were not yet acquainted. It is planned 
in the next meeting the men will elect 
their own floor managers.
TECH NIGHT
a t
Slmitptiie Prpabtjinian (Elmrrh
Ambcrsmt Amuutr ani ffirstnmtatn- Stmt
3/uiit uff SHftlj Auruur
B |1 iii mtiuui, Nmu'mlu'r 2
program will consist of spaiai music 
ait an appropriate sermon bp 5Dr. Kerr
J)ou are IlimteO (Mill Dou dome
ti ll See JDou at Stoopoe iDext SuiiDav Evening 
lets (Set acquainted

i^hi7iunnnuiminniuiiiMiiiuu[iiiiriiiiimiiiii^Hftiiiiiu)iiii'iiiiiiiiiimuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii|ii|iiiiiiii^ ^
THETA XI.
The fraternity opened its social sea
son, on the night of Friday the 17th, 
with a dance at the Chapter House. 
Math and all other evils were forgot
ten in the general period of festivity 
and every one dove in for a good 
time. Over thirty couples participat
ed in the Terpsicliorean frolic.
Sunday afternoon once more herald
ed in the occasion of convivial pas 
temps. This was in the form of a 
Tea given for the girls of the Mar
garet Morrison dormitories. Mrs. W.
E. Mott poured. The chaperons were 
Dean and Mrs. W. E. Mott, Profes
sor and Mrs. II. S. Hower, and Mr. 
and Mrs. L. P. Tyler.
 '<[---------OPHELEUM
It is with the greatest of pleasure 
that The Opheleum fraternity an
nounces the pledging of Dean John T. 
Morris, Acting Dean of the Division 
of Industries, as an honorary member.
The fraternity held an informal din
ner in East Liberty on Thursday nite
in honor of their pledges and all
agreed it was a varvelous affair.
 ----------PHI EPSILON PI
The chapter held a very enjoyable 
smoker at Zeta House, on Friday nite, 
October 17, which was attended by 
about fifty men. Music, entertainment, 
and eats kept the spiritand bodies 
alive during the evening.
Frater Superior Eisenstat represent
ed the Chapter at the Zeta House 
party on Friday night, October 23.
The Pittsburgh Chapters were hon
ored recently lay a short visit from 
Frater Grand Superior, Benjamin J. Golden.
----------0----------NEWMAN CLUB
The Newman Club will hold a recep
tion for new members Friday evening, 
November 7th, at their usual meeting 
rooms. All Catholic students of Tech 
are cordially invited to attend.
----------&----------WOODLAWN CLUB.
Brother G. G. Greulich, from Ak
ron, Ohio, dropped in on us Friday. 
Brother Greulich is with the Good
rich Rubber Company.
The Woodland foot-ball aggrega
tion is now in full swing, with prac
tice every evening in the parlor, With 
only the loss of a few fixtures the 
team is about rounded into shape and 
ready for all comers.-----------------------
The Division of Academic Studies 
announces the appointment of Vernon 
Brown to the mathamatics depart
ment.
COME TO THIL YOUNG MENS CLASS
First Baptist Church
Bellefield and Bayard Street
Every Sunday at 10 A. M. Dr. F. T. GALPIN, Teacher
Grace Church
(Roformcd)
BAYARD and DITHRIDGE STREETS 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister. 
SERVICES:Sunday Softool9:45 A. M.Morning Worship11 A. M. Christian Endeavor7 P. M. 
Popular Evening Services at 7:45. Sermons for Hoad and Iloart. 
Hearty Welcome for All.
ST. PAULS CATHEDRAL Fifth Ave. and Craig St.
Masses: 8:30, 8:00, 9:00, 10:00 and11:00 A. M. on Sundays and Holy 
Days.Vespers on Sundays at 7:30 P. M. Paw 58, Middle Aisle, for Tech Stu
dents.
The Mellon National Bank is 
one of the most thoroughly 
organized, strongest financial 
institutions on the country.
It is in a position to handle 
any account, large or small, 
with care and competency.
I0NAL
Pittsburgh, Pa.
EXPRESS AND 
TRANSFER COMP
Bell Phones 578 & 9169 Schenley 
P. & A. 1092-R 
229 ATWCTOD 8TREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 
Household Good a Moved, 8tored, 
Packed and Shipped.
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
DR. HUGH B. SPEER, Pastor 
Shady and Northumberland Avenues 
Graded Sunday School, !():()() A. M. Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M. and 8:00 P. M.Young People's Service, 7:00 P. M. Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages. A cordial welcome to all.
BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN ' 
CHURCH
Bellefield and Fifth Avenues
D.,Rev. Robert MacGowan, D 
Minister.
Preaching Services 11 and 8.
Sunday school at 10.
ChriBtlan Endeavor at 7.
We want the Tech boys to attend our services and loarn to know us as the congregation of 
"Friendly People." A hearty 3 welcome awaits you.
.. *>
YOUNG MAN!
COME TO THE
YOKE FELLOWS 
CLASS
EVERY SUNDAY AT 10:00 A. M.
FIRST BAPTIST CHURCH
BELLFIELD AND BAYARD STS.
REV. F. T. GALPIN, Teacher.
OTHER SERVICES
Friendly Class (Young Women)
10:00 A. M.
Morning Services ...........11:00 A. M.
B. Y. P. U............................. 7:00 P. M.
Evening Services............... 7:45 P. M.
COME AND BRING A FRIEND
A8CEN8ION EPI8COPAL CHURCH 
Ellsworth Avenue and Neville 8troot 
DR. WYATT BROWN, Roctor 
DR. R088 R. CALVIN, Analatant.Sunday Services, 8:00 A. M., 11:00 
A. M. and 8:00 P. M.College Men Bible Class at 10:00, led by Dr. Calvin.
All 8tudentn Genuinely Wtloomo.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1919
5
I
c a package
before the war
c a package
during the war
e a package> NOW
THE FLAUOR LASTS 
SO DOES THE PRICE!
Sold everywhere- families supplied by droccr druggist and dealer- - Visitors m> cordially invited to inspect o\r plantFo
ECH GIVES KING ALBERT
On Thursday afternoon at 3:30 the 
students formed a parade in front of 
Industries Building to march to 
Forbes Field. The parade was led 
by two color-bearers with the Amer
ican and the Belgium standards. The 
band followed and directly behind 
them about 400 of the students form
ed the letters C. I. T. The rest of he 
students came behind these men. In 
this formation the student body 
marched across the bridge and into 
Forbes Field. Carnegie had the end 
of the grandstand nearest the park, 
both the ground floor and balcony. 
The Pitt students were in the other 
end of the stand, so of course a cheer
ing duel took place. A number of the 
high schools also added their cheering 
to the contest. While waiting for 
King Albert, the students were enter
tained by a sham air-battle staged be
tween planes a few hundred feet above 
the field. The speed with which the 
pilots maneuvered their machines was 
intensely thrilling. Loops, dives and 
glides followed each other in close 
succession. Many times the machines 
passed within a few feet of each other.
The royal party did not arrive 
until after five oclock. They came in 
the entrance next to the Tech stands. 
As they entered the students all rose 
and the Carnegie band played the Bel
gian national anthem. The party 
drove around the field and received a 
hearty welcome from all the students. 
All were impressed with the fine phy
sique and handsome features of the 
Hero of Belgium. Queen Elizabeth 
was in the car with King Albert, but 
Prince Leopold was in a car behind. 
The prince gave the impression of a 
fine, stalwart young man. Whenever 
a great man visits Pittsburgh, Tech 
students put their whole heart into 
his welcome.
----------D--------
OFFICERS OF DIVISION 
OF ARTS
Temporary Chairman R. Schmertz 
of the Student Body Design School 
deemed it wise to hold nomination for 
officers of Design School. Design 
should restore its prestige on Techs 
campus this year.
Balloting Was on Monday, October 
27 in the Directors office. Every one 
who is registered in Arts should have 
egarded it as his personal duty to vote 
at these elections. Nominations were:
President:
Green,
Brennen,
Reid,
Stewart,
Early.
1st Vice President:
Todd,
Brockman,
Davis,
Rice.
2nd Vice President:
Miss Crowe,
Miss S. Floyd.
Treasurer:
Crosby.
Historian:
Miss C. Shuman.
Secretary:
Dolce,
Dirks,
Dcvney,
Aspimvall.
Athletic Board:
Davis,
Schmertz,Early.
-----------------
ADVANCED METHODS USED 
IN COAL MINING COURSE
The Literary Digest claims that 
times have changed, and they readily 
convince us of this fact by the state
ment, that, In the olden days, the 
smell of whiskey on a nfans breath 
would cause people to turn up their 
noses, while today it causes them to 
prick up their ears.
But to bring it closer to home; we 
have many developments in our own 
school which illustrate even more 
clearly this advancement of civiliza
tion and education.
Take, for instance, the two-year co
operative coal mining course. The 
schedule of studies and the men in
cluded in this course show a distinct 
step in the advancement of education
al methods, where the training of men 
for the operation and management of 
coal mines is concerned. The course 
includes a practical education and 
training in every phase of the mining 
industry from runing a typewriter to 
sinking a shaft and rendering efficient 
first aid in case of explosions and ac
cidents.
Can you imagine a student of the 
old mining course spending two hours 
a week for ten weeks in a smoke room 
filled with poisonous gases, learning 
by practical experience how to use 
and carry his own supply of fresh air, 
under every condition to which he 
may be subject to in case of explo
sions.
No, I dont think you can. This, 
is only one of the many features which 
illustrate the thoroughly practical 
courses of study which Carnegie Tech 
has to offer its students. There are 
many more, but more concerning them 
later.
CHEMISTS CLUB
ELECTS OFFICERS
At a recent meeting of the Chem
ists Club, officers were elected as fol
lows: President, F. J. Heinle, vicepresident, W. E. Dougherty; secre
tary, Ii. E. I-Ialdeman; treasurer, S. 
Stockslager.
H
A
NY tobacco  every tobaccotastes better in a W D C 
- Pipe. Our own specially seasoned and carefully selected 
1'rench briar makes it so. Add to this the supercraftsman
ship of the Demuth workers, and youll not wonder that we 
claim pre-eminence in the quality of our pipes. Ask any good dealer.
WM. DEMUTH AL CO.. NEW YORK
EGHNYXT NOHPCTDMWOICHTMGKOKSQRF .S.CT
OAKLAND HARDWARE COMPANY 
Pocket Knives Mazda Lamps
3606 FORBES STREET
^llllll!!l!l!!l!ll[!l!l!!ll!!!ll!lll!!ll!!lllllll!!llllll!!!lll!lllllllllllllll!il!!lllll!!lllillllil!llllll!ll!i
AL. LA. PLACE
Formerly of William Penn and Fort Pitt Hotel 
I AM SERVING
-------------A--------------
Clean, Wholesome and Home Cooked Dinner for 35c 
-------------At--------------
STANDARD RESTAURANT
3621 FIFTH AVENUE NEAR ATWOOD STREET
ARTS PLEBES ELECT OFFICERS
At the Plebe meeting held this week 
the following officers were elected 
from the list of nominees:
President.............................Willard
1st Vice President...............Hertz
2nd Vice President..Miss Dolzell 
Secretary .... Miss Cunningham
Treasurer .......................... Turner
It is hoped the Plebes will show 
plenty of pep this year and get in 
he right spirit of Tech early.
-----------------------
ARTS JUNIORS HOLD MEETING.
Last Tuesday the Juniors of Design 
School held a meeting to decide who 
shall lead them this year. There was 
a large number present but there were 
many who did not show up. If it 
expected to have a successful year 
the present Juniors will have to show 
more interest in their class than at 
present. Nominations were in order 
ior all officers and there were posted 
one week before election, which was 
held on Monday, October 27. Nomin
ations were:
President:
H. Aspimvall,
W. Perkins,
N. Rice.
Vice President:
John Todd,
Crosby.
Secretary:
Miss Cochran,
Miss Moran,
Miss Crowe.
Treasurer:
Lake, Stone, Dirks.
Historian:
Hinckley.
----------8----------
CAP FOUND.
A cap has been turned into this 
office that was found between the In
stitute and Forbes Field on October 
23rd during the parade to the field.
DEAN OF MEN.
-just
enough
Turkish
T
HE only cigarette above the cheapest brands 
that has ever won a tremendous, nation-wide 
popularity is Fatima.
Fatimas sales nearly equal those of all the straight 
Turkish cigarettes combined; and no other cigarette 
costing us much as Fatima has one-half of Fatimas 
annual sales.
''he reason may be that Fatima contains more 
Turkish than any other Turkish blend. This would 
mean, in other words, that instead of containing too 
much Turkish as straight Turkish cigarettes do, or 
too little as in the poorer Turkish blends, Fatimas 
famous blend contains just enough Turkish just 
enough to taste right and just enough to leave a man 
feeling right even after smoking more than usual.
FATIMA
A LEGHNYXE TNOPCEDDE
