Football 
Bethany vs. Tech 
Oct. 4, 1919
General Assembly 
Wednesday A. M. 
Music Hall
I'HUWOUK" :i\< Ciuial, 
!1900 7/
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA
AT CAMP LOUISE CARNEGIE
J'trHidden Treasures of the 
A ,i Earth Produced By the 
ft/ \ School of Drama
Season Opens Oct. 4 With 
Bethany at Tech Field
Spectacular drama, dancing, a little 
r nelodrama, a great deal of comedy, 
i/J with a charming and interesting 
theme running throughout, represent
ing dramatically the conquest of na
tures treasure-house, is the- new 
pageant by Prof. Thomas Wood Stev\ :-ns, head of the School of Drama, 
^v'iirnegie Tech, and President of the 
Jijjl meric an Pageant Association, 
ill Mr. Stevens is well known at Tech 
,l(|or his series of pageants produced in 
'I celebration of occasions of student 
,j ictivities. Besides this Mr. Stevens 
K s, known in the professional world 
is the writer and producer of the St. 
I) Louis Pageant, the Newark Pageant,. 
I and the Joan of Arc Pageant.
1 The pageant of the Hidden Treas/|S urei of earth should be of especial |j interest to Tech students for two 
i easons; first, because of the relation 
I t bears to this Institute through Mr. 
/ ( Stevens and the students and gradt) nates of the School of Drama, who 
{ are assisting Mr. Stevens, and acting 
'I in the piece secondly, it depicts 
jl dramatically the history of the rise 
and development of the. mining in(iustry through many ages. This it 
I (does interestingly, portraying the 
Vpassions of man in his search for hidI Wen treasure, now in rich comedy, and 
| I gain in the fire of melodrama.
\,i This pageant has been written as a 
. >art of the celebration of dedication 
I of the Pittsburgh Station of the 
v Bureau of Mines. It will be presented 
l Eit Forbes Field baseball grounds the 
i avening of September 30. In case of 
k inclement weather it will be given at 
Lyfeyrlan Mosque. -
I A brief outline of the pageant folI*: lows. It is written in a prologue, 
I} four episodes, two interludes and an 
epilogue.
The prologue is a symbolical tale of 
sf: a rendezvous of the elements, Earth, 
Air, Fire and Water. They have 
I*: heard of the development of the crea[j ture Man, and fear (lie conquest of 
I *: their realms. They take measures to 
I irrest that conquest. Man arrives on 
j'1*] he scene accompanied by Knowledge. 
I (ItTlie elements and their hosts fall 
\ (Continued on Page Three.)
(From the Tartan correspondent.)
Caiup Louise Carnegie, Sept. 2*1, 
1919.Carnegie Tech will be well rep
resented in the football world this 
year, as prospects at present are very 
bright. With only -1 letter men of 
former years back, but about *15 new 
men, Coaches Steffen and J-Iazel have 
been obtaining good results in the 
preliminary training. The squad num
bers about fifty-six men, and many 
men are expected to be added when 
school opens.
Of the old men Phil Marshall has 
been showing, up exceptionally well 
and is sure of a position at one of 
the halfs. He played on an army 
team last year and is larger and 
faster than ever. Scoops Carey, 
letter man of *17 is showing up AVoll 
at guard and should make the var
sity. Bloom and Vet" Williams, 
captain-elect of MS, have not. reported 
to camp, but are exppoted soon. 
Bloom, who plays quarter, ran the 
team in 17, and Is expected to show 
ill) great; this year, lie has been in 
the engineering camp and will report 
ready for scrimmage. Williams, who 
was elected captain or the MS team 
but did not play, will report Satur
day. Vet Is larger than evor, 
weighing .190 pounds, and will fit In 
at tackle, where  ho Rubbed for one 
year before playing end,
Of the host new men Loomis looks 
great at fullback, but will have to 
step to heal, out Brunnwasor, subfull of the great M(> team. He Is :i 
groat lino pluyer and. *,vv hi,\!h 
and weight. Fletcher, We Id line, Aim7 
Levy, Fisher, Hayes, Holfrloh and 
Bollinger, a lottor man of 'HI, are 
showing lots of light and any one of 
them should land a position before 
the opening game.
Tho lino will ho lighter than former 
years, but very fast. Several can
didates. from other colleges are try
ing for positions on tho line. Moon, 
from Grove City, Is a real tighter, and 
should develop Into a classy player. 
He weighs 185, and Is very fast, be
sides being a good punter. The punt
ing will be dono by either Moon or 
Fletcher, as both have been showing 
up well In this department, irwln, 
a former W. Hi. J. man, has boon 
making n groat bid for center, but Is 
handicapped by lack of weight.
Other men who have been showing 
up well (n the lino are Carey, Roth, 
CJoldstlno, Llchonstlno, Rod Goddon, 
Marshall, Whitman, 7/\It and Curtis. 
Along wlllil this number are 12 men 
who are laid up with Injuries, but 
will be out In a few days.
Coach Steffens Is very optimistic as 
to the outlook this year, but Is de
termined to give every man a chance 
to show Ills worth. Many of the men 
are green, but are learning fast and 
at present It Is hard to pick men for 
the positions. A lenative varsity will 
be selected at tho beginning of next 
week, and final preparations for the 
opening game made.
Camp is to be broken up Saturday 
morning and regular practice held at 
Tech field every day.
The camp this year has been in 
charge of Captain Dosey, hnd every
thing run first class. Bert Munhall 
was in charge of equipment and help
ed to ease the pain of the injured 
ones.
Many changes have taken place 
in the Margaret Morrison faculty 
since the last school year. Some of 
tlije old teachers have left while 
others are to be absent only a part 
of the year.
Miss Erma Hewitt of the Arts 
and Crafts Department, will not. re
turn to school until after 'Christmas. 
In the Costume Economics Depart
ment Miss Elizabeth Kelly, a for
mer M. M. graduate, will take the 
place of Miss Theodora Briggs, who 
is not .returning this year. Dr. Ma
rion Fay, instructor in history, was 
married during the summer and will 
not ,be back. Miss Fay was the 
chaperon for Mellon Hall last year.
In the Household Economics De
partment Miss Emily Sibley and Miss 
Clara Shaw are not teaching this 
year. Mlsfa Beulah Hatch, Miss 
Marlon Kiefer, M. M., *19, and Miss 
Lulu Fuller, M. M *18, have been 
appointed to 1111 the vacancies in this 
department.
Miss Grace Ruppert, M. M., 18, and 
Miss Miriam Wlekert, M. M., 17. 
will be instructors in the Science 
Department. Miss Ruppert, who 
taught the latter part, of last year 
.in Margaret Morrison, was formerly 
with the- Hercules Powder Company, 
doing war work.
Miss Marion Holmes, formerly vo
cational advisor, has taken Miss 
Sturtevants place as head of the 
Secretarial Department. Miss Ida 
Spurrier is to be assistant Instruct
or in physical education.
CHAPTER OF SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON
At the eightieth annual convention 
of Beta Tlieta Pi fraternity held at 
Swampscott, Mass., during the first 
week in September, it was voted to 
grant a charter, to Sigma Rho fra
ternity of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology. The convention, which 
was one of the most enthusiastic in 
the history of the fraternity, was 
concerned chiefly , with the problems 
of reconstruction resulting from the 
whole-hearted answer of its members 
to their countrys call.
The installation, which will not 
take place until after the Christmas 
recess, will mark the .passing of one 
of the oldest locals at Tech; and 
the establishment of one of the old
est national fraternities in the coun
try. With- the-placing of a Beta 
chapter at Tech, the institution will 
enjoy the presence of one of the 
largest and strongest national fra
ternities in existence, and should 
take its rightful place among the fra
ternally prominent colleges of the 
country.,
Sigma Rho was officially founded 
in 1906, having been known prior to 
that date as the Slide Rule Club. 
Many of the most prominent names 
in Tech history are to be found on 
the Sigma Rho alumni roll. Beta 
Tlieta Pi was founded at Miami Uni
versity August S, 1839, by John Reily 
Knox.' Its membership approaches 
'25,000, and the fraternity owns prop
erty valued at well over $1,000,000. 
Its chapter roll includes practically 
every college of prominence in the 
United States and Canada.
Zeta Lambda to be Installed 
October Eleventh
The first reception of the year was 
held last Saturday evening In the 
Tech gymnasium by the Varsity Clan. 
The event, .which was called a Vic
tory Meeting, was given In honor 
of the football team on its return 
from camp. 'It was well attended, all 
Pittsburgh alumni being invited, and 
a regular old-time gathering was en
joyed.
During the evening a fast boxing 
bout was staged, and movies added to 
the entertainment. Emil Marshall 
and liis. partner put on an exhibition 
wrestling match which proved a lilt.
Eats were served during the even
ing, and speeches by Coach Steffen, 
the president of tho Varsity Clan, and 
other well known Tech men, com
pleted a well rounded program.
SCHEDULE CASHIERS 
OFFICE
Three years ago the members of 
the Zeta Lambda Epsilon Society 
formulated plans for petitioning Sig
ma Alpha Epsilon, one of the largest 
national fraternities known to college 
life. Zeta Lamba Epsilon believed 
in the future of Carnegie Tech, in 
t'hle future oL' the society and the 
preliminary petition was presented 
to the ' Providence Beta of Sigma 
Alpha Epsilon,
The petition was acted on favora
bly, by the province and then came 
the long and careful planning for 
the petition to the general conven
tion. Through the untiring efforts 
of the members of the society and 
whole-hearted co-operation of the 
faculty and other fraternities at 
school, a beautiful and self-explana
tory exposition of Tech and Z. L. E. 
was presented to this body for their 
consideratioh. At the same time, 
monthly notes of accomplishment 
and achievements were mailed to 
all , the chapters of S. A. E., the 
country over.
The general convention of "Sigma 
Alpha Epsilon convened in Buffalo, 
June 26, 27, 27, 1919, granted the 
local body a charter and notified 
them of their actions on Saturday, 
June 28.
The granting of this chapter to a 
Tech society has a significance that 
is not at all limited to the members 
therein concerned. It is a matter 
for the whole school. Not a victory 
for one group but a hearty 'procla
mation that Tech is recognized the 
. country over, as a good and powerful 
school.
(Continued on Page Three.)
An interesting addition l<> the 
School of Drama, Division of life Arts, 
has been made this year in tho form 
of an open-air theater of Elizabethan 
design. Up to tho present time most: 
out-door performances given hero 
have been either at horbos or Tech 
Fields, where tho backgrounds and 
surroundings have seldom boon ade
quate or pleasing. Although the now 
structure is not entirely completed at 
the present time, 1L Is hoped that It. 
will be in readiness for a- few per
formances during this year. Situated 
as it is, directly behind the Arts 
Building, if is convenient, both, for th 
students avIio will act In it and for 
those who . will compose the majority 
of the audiences. Lighting effects 
may be secured by operating spot
lights from the upper floors of the 
Design Building, thus throwing tho 
illumination from over the heads of 
those attending, who will be seated 
between the school and the open-air 
theater.
The building of this addition to the 
school has long been a wish of the 
director of the School of Drama, Prof. 
T. W. Stevens, who, in conjunction 
with Mr. Hornbostel, designed it, and 
to whose efforts its accomplishment 
is due.
In its endeavors to reach a soluion of present-day industrial condiions through education with the co
operation of labor, Canada has en
listed the aid of a member of the 
faculty of Carnegie Tech. Dr. Ed
ward K. Strong, Jr., professor of vo
cational education at the local school 
at the invitation of the University of 
Toro* I'H will deliver a series of lec
tures in a course on Employment 
Management, under the direction oi 
the university, beginning today ann 
continuing until September 23. .
Dr. Strong will lecture on indus
trial psychology, with particular ap
plication to the three items of meas
urement of ability, training the 
I worker and industrial morale.
The Associate Artists of Pittsburgh 
will hold the tenth annual exhibition 
at the galleries of Carnegie Institute 
from October 24 to November 24. A 
reception and press views will be held 
Thursday evening, October 23. This 
year's exhibition committee is made 
up. of Charles J. Taylor, chairman;
H. A. Gorson, Will J. Hyett, Joseph 
Ivajre, A. F. King, Elizabeth B. Robb, 
George W. Scotter, Christ Walter and
A. B. Wooley. It is the opinion-of the 
committee that the works displayed 
will far exceed anything the artists 
of Pittsburgh have shown heretofore.
Following the customary plan, there 
will be the One-Man Show, a special 
exhibit of the work of one of the mem
bers. Fred Demmler, the portrait 
painter, who was killed in action on 
the west front, has been honored this 
year, and the exhibit will be a mem
orial for him.
There will be also a memorial group 
of Arthur W. Sparks paintings. Mr. 
Sparks died recently at Lumberville, 
Pa., where he was associated with E. 
W. Red field, Gardiner Symons, George 
W. Potter, and other painters located 
in that part of the state. P/evious 
to his move to Lumberville, he was 
instructor in art at the School of 
Applied Design, Carnegie.
Another feature will be an exhibit 
of over a hundred sketches by Ralph 
Holmes of Atascedero, Cal. Several 
years ago this painter was also an in(Continued on Page Three.)
Dr. W. W. Charters, dean of the' 
School of Education of the Univer
sity of Illinois, has just been ap
pointed director of the Research Bu
reau for Retail Training at the Car
negie Institute of Technology of this 
city, according to a recent an
nouncement. I-Ie will come to as
sume his new duties about the first 
of September.
With its enlaj-ged staff, the bu
reau will intensify its research and 
training program for the retail field. 
Dr. Miner, who has been acting as 
director will continue part-time with 
the bureau consultant and in the 
supervision of research.
W. R. Skillen will continue on the 
staff of the Research Bureau for 
Retail Training as co-ordinator of 
the operating stores, and as teacher 
of the principles of store organiza
tion and management. Miss Marion 
L. Norris will continue as specialist 
in department store personnel and 
employment practice and will also 
serve as secretary of the bureau. 
Miss Elizabeth Dyer will carry for
ward her research and teaching in 
the field- of department store educa
tional methods.
An old custom will be revived 
j'jhis year when the Fraternity Schol
arship Cup will be awarded.
I Due to abnormal conditions during 
[the last two years the cup has not 
rbeen awarded but the faculty -has de
cided to this year.
The cup is given each year to the 
fraternity having the highest scholas:^c averages. Although the figures 
nave all been prepared, the winner 
has not yet been announced but the 
announcement will be made at the 
[first student assembly. The cup is 
: a gift from President I-Iamerschlag 
'and remains in the winning fraternityis house for one year. If it is 
won for three consecutive years it 
becomes a permanent possession.
The four schools council has re
cently prepared a revised edition of j 
the Information Booklet of previ-. 
ous years. Monday, September 30,1 
in the 'Carnegie Union, on the top 
floor of the -Central building. The 
profit resulting from this sale will 
be used by the Student' Council to 
defray their expenses for the pres
ent school year.
The Tech Bible is issued chiefly j 
for the enlightment of the entering! 
Freshmen. Among other features, itj 
contains general information con-j 
cerning th school, student activities 
and associationsFreshmen rgula* ! 
tionsschool songs and yellsand 
also Items of interest about Pitts
burgh and vicinity.
The information contained in this 
booklet will prove invaluable to the 
entering Freshmen. Be sure to pro
cure a copy on registration day.
EVERYBODY 
TO WASHINGTON
Thi. Newman c:iui> an prgani/.a- ]|, Arc you going to Cornell? Carnegie Tech Spe- 1tion of CatlVolIc tudont of Tocli b j b _ 0 .  , Uami Pitt, win hold it.: iirnt mooting j rial leaves P. & L. E. Station 11:00 P. M., November i-| 
Hir:S! I we return November 10th, 7:30 A. M. |
High School. Several social affairs is! y
have been planned for this year. All {'] *
new students are cordially invited to j|j 
attend the first meeting, notice of [a- . ||
which, will be given later.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1919

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE TARTANWEDNESDAY. OCTOBER 1, 1919
Published every week by undergraduates of the 
Technology.
Carnegie Institute of
Entered In the postoilice of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
(Copyrighted 1910 by Henry F. ShefJr.)
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
This year $1.00 Sc the copyCanada, $1.25
Edltor-ln-Chlcf....................................................................................Phone Hazel 0422
Phne Schenley 1)025
.Henry F. Schcctz, Jr.
her of inquiries have been made a to control by the administration. Being 
affiliated with the Student Activities Board, their constitution will be fol
lowed strictly, in regard to such matters.
The Tartan has many positions to be filled. If you have had any exper
ience whatever please present yourself for interview. Your efforts will be 
rewarded by proper insignia by the Student Activities Board.
Official Announcement
EDITORIALSchool Editors
Managing EditorM. M. ( 
Science
 S................Margaret J. Griffen
......................I. K, W. Macai pineL. 1C. PaquiiiI nd un tres...............................f. It. Rudlsill
Alctant Managing EditorAssistant Athlctlc EditorF. I. SmithNight....................................... ........................
!190 EditorRichard Lownsend
C. M. BlackburnBUSINESS STAFF
Assistant !190 Editor.lohn G. Keelan 
Charles ToddJ. T. AmesF. W. Allesworth
Athlctlc ElltorAssistants
II. W. LynnWilliam Rians
Richard TownsendDaniel Cassidy
TARTN OFFICE.........................................................................................Room 162, Design
Hours2:00 to 4:00 Wednesdays.
-1:30 to 8:00 Thursdays.
Tho Editor-In-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the Man
aging Editor for the make up.
All business communications should be sent to the Business Manager.
 Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be< reported 
at once.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the signature to be withheld if desired.
All news items must be in the student postoilice, Central Building, before 
noon on Saturdays.
HI'S HEART WAS IN THE WORK"
On August 11, 1919, many hearts were sad when the news was spread 
world-wide that our beloved founder had passed away. Although in his 84th 
year, Mr. Carnegie was hopeful to the last,
No words that can bo mentioned through th-Se columns can express 
our heartfelt griol' for the loss of one whose spirit and example has meant 
so much to all who aspire to higher things.
From humble beginnings he amassed one of the largest fortunes of 
modern times, but, not like many of his brothers in the world of fortune,' 
ho spent a large part of his accumulations in aiding his fellow people, some 
of whom were less fortunate than lie. The history of his life and achieve
ments is too well known to cause the necessity of repitition here. However, 
it is well to remember that he is known as the gratest philanthropist of 
modern times. Among his philanthropies we consider the founding 'of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology, . the greatest, though perhaps not the 
best known.
It Is only fitting and proper that some memorial should be instituted to 
preserve the memory of our founder. While we enjoy the privileges made 
possible by his gift, we should also keep alive the feeling of respect and 
gratitude which Is usually all too soon forgotten.
The suggestion has boon made that, beginning with tho class of 1923, 
a small feo shall be collected from each member of the class to finance the 
sending of two members of (lie same class to New York in order to place a 
wreath on the grave of our founder, annually. These men are to he selected 
on tho merits of scholastic standing. However, let it be understood that 
this has not yet been approved. Why send men on this mission who have 
uovor attended school while our founder lived and never really appreciated 
that his heart was In the woric? Would It not be more flitting to select
I wo men from the Alumni Associations to perform the duty, if such bo the 
memorial selected, or confer the honor upon tho President of the Four 
Schools Council and one other man from tho Senior classes, to bo chosen by 
some dovised method? A more fitting memorial could be executed if a small 
foe was collected from every student attending school, and If the same was 
carried out by more representative students of the .school.
The plan, however, If approved, will serve us a. means of remembering.our 
found or us long us there is a Tech mail on the face of the globe; In the 
meantime Ini us remember that "his heart was in the work," and carry on.
'LEST WE FORGET
Tlml u number of men who ljuvo been absent from Carnegie for a year
or more, are returning tills year In more llriply Impressed upon us each
lime we oroHH tho campus. Most of them wore in government service, it
u'ppoimi; but whatever the reason, more upper ehissmon who have not
attended school for somo time are again with us than was over the case 
previously,
Many changes have taken place since they last saw Tech, both In 
physical appearance of tho school and In the personnel of tho faculty, as 
well as In I lie fundamental system of control and title of divisions and 
schools. But the place is still, as If always will bo, "dear old Tech. Each 
new-old face brings'back to us memories of tho days when we first wandered 
in from tho backwoods, when the cut was not even thought of. there wasnt 
even half a link between the Central and Industries Buildings, and the 
tennis courts wore where the Langley Laboratory now stands.
Tills Is just written to express to those men the fact that they are 
not forgotten, that those Who were fortunate enough to remain hero con
tinuously dining the period of stress which has just passed, feel just as 
much pleasure at their return as they do in coming back to us. The 
Tartan takes tills opportunity and method of telling you all that you are 
remembered, and of saying "Welcome Home.
LETS GO, TECH!
The school year about to begin promises to be pne of the greatest in 
our history. This should be true in athletics, non-athletic activities and in 
scholarship. In view of this fact it might be well to mention, for .the benefit 
of the newcomers, just what they have to look, forward to.
According to the same old story on account of the war our standards 
were far from normal during the years of the world-wide eruption. Next 
came the reconstruction period, when we harped on the reclamation of 
the S. A. T. C. relics from the campus. Classes were unusually small.
Nowwith a. great many of the old students back and the host of new 
studentsthe old wheel should be set in motion and maintained at a greater 
speed than ever before.
To this end let us emphasize the necessity of every man who has the 
slightest experience whatever to try out for the athletic- teams. Everyone 
stands a chance because our splendid staff of coaches may see something in 
>ou that other coaches have neglected entirely.
To those who are not athletically inclined we would recommend to the 
various publications, team managements, musical clubs, and other student 
organizations. The things that count most is getting started early and then 
showing signs of stick-to-it-lvenoss."
Last of all, but not least, it is to be remembered that support of activi
ties Is not a secondary matter. The Athletic Association has dovised fl 
method whereby they can toll who is and who is not attending. Statistics 
will bo compiled each week, of classes and schools; so consider It. your duty 
to support your class and school. Attend those games and got, "ye old 
time pep!
In conclusion, a motto which will serve for every one is: "What am 1 
doing te help Tech? Ask yourself that question. Think. Act.
THE NEW TARTAN
It is generally known that the Tartan Is now under the direct supervision 
of the Students Activities Board. The officers as designated above are not 
permanent, as flnal elections will be made by the Executive Board, consisting 
ot the editor-in-chief, business manager and one member of. the Studen 
Activities Board.
The policy lias not been changed, the main one being to produce a publi
cation which represents the student body and voice their opinions. A nuniIn an interview with Colonel Brooks, the following announcement was 
issued for publication:
The idea of the Military Department is to offer to the students of 
Carnegie Institute scientific training in branches of tile army most intimately 
connected with the courses of study that they are pursuing.
Practical work in these units will greatly increase the efficiency of 
the student after graduation in addition to offering him a chance for a 
commission in the United States Army or in the Reserve Officers' Corps.
"Also to provide the student, during his entire stay in the school, with 
clothing, and, during the last two years, commutation of rations amounting 
to al/out twelve dollars in cash per month. This money will also be paid 
him during the summer vacations.
Also to offer the student training in army camps during the summers 
during which time the government bears all expenses. The training he will 
receive there will greatly benefit him in his chosen profession.
These camps are proposed to be located in the recreation centers, such 
as Lake Champlain, and American Lake in the Sierras of the state of Wash
ington. The government, In addition to paying expenses at camp, will 
furnish transportation to and from.
"The equipment in the Field Artillery Unit, already on bind will be 
increased and full equipment for the Signal Corps, Engineers and Motor 
Transport Corps will be immediately furnished.
Past military experience of members of the R. O. T. C. of last spring 
will result this fall in their being placed in the advanced course, so as .to 
enable them to begin drawing their commutation of rations at once.
Colonel Brooks announced also that a unit of the Motor Transport 
Service has been added to Tech's R. O. T. C.
This unit will train students in the transportation and supply work, and 
will work in connection with the automobile course in,the Industries School.
So that students may know what officer to consult with regard to the 
different units of the Military Department, the following officers are an
nounced. The officers at the head of the Engineer- Corps and the Motor 
Transport 'Corps will be announced as soon as the department learns of 
their appointment.
Colonel Brooks, in command.
Lieutenant-Colonoi Cole, head of Field Artillery Unit.
Lieutenant-Colonel Van Horn, head of Signal Corps Unit.
Questions regarding any unit will be answered at Military Department.
REGISTRATION
Before being admitted to the union, all students will be required to 
present a "Permit to Register and a Registration Record" properly filled 
out.
Upper classmen may procure "Permits from the office of the Dean of 
the Division. Freshmen Permits are issued at the office of the Registrar.
The Autumn Quarter Fee of .$25.00 is payable at Registration. Residents 
of Pittsburgh who registered last year are entitled to a credit of $4.00 per 
quarter. A resident of Pittsburgh is defined to mean a student living 
in Pittsburgh under or over twenty-one years of age; who can show a tax 
receipt in his own name or in the name of the parent or guardian, that 
identifies the student as a Pittsburgh resident.
R. O. T. C.
Tiie following extract may be of interest to those contemplating a course 
in the R. O. T. C. at Tech:
Members of the It. O. T. C. will be credited with the completion of tlio 
two years basic course prescribed in Section 42, Act of June 3, 1916, and 
will be deemed to have satisfied the requirements-for admission to the 
advanced training set forth in Section 50, Act of June 3, 1916, provided they 
can present to the professor of Military Science and Tactics a satisfactory 
record of service in the armed forces of the United States as follows:
(1) iHonorably discharged officers of the Army, Navy or Marine Corps 
who are eligible for membership in the R. O. T. C.
(2) Honorably discharged enlisted men of the Army, Navy or Marine 
Corps who have served two months or more in any theater of active opera
tions.
(3) Honorably discharged enlisted men of the Army, Navy or Marine 
Corps who have served for four months or more with combat units or in 
training areas, or in cantqnmonts, or in special training schools of the Army 
or Navy, at home or abroad.
H) Honorably discharged enlisted men who have attended any Officers 
Training School or Candidates School for six weeks or more.
Iflntranee Into the advanced course, to which any man with the above 
qualifications is ollglble, will moan commutations to the amount of $12 per 
month, besides uniform, underdo,thing, shoes, etc. ____________
CHANGES IN FACULTY ABE MANY THIS YEAH
For some years past if has been 
the acknowledged policy of the ad
ministration to bring the greatest 
educators of the country to Carnegie 
Tech. That this policy is still in 
force becomes apparent from the 
names appearing on the lists of new 
faculty members recently announced. 
The past summer has seen an impos
ing group of names added to the 
faculty 1 roll in each of the divisions 
of the Institute.
The Division of Academic Studies 
announces that the following men will 
be connected in various capacities 
with the English department: Francis
G. Ahlers, Harold G. Files, Dr. Charles 
O.. Goth, Thomas E. Kennedy, Fred
B. Millet, Witt Bowden and Francis 
J. Tschan. The department of mathe
matics will enjoy the services of 
Glen James, F. A. Johnson and E. 
M. Starr, while John Keir. is to be 
added to the teaching staff of the his
tory and economics department.
In the Division of Science and En
gineering practically every depart
ment has received at least one new 
faculty member. The following are 
the new instructors and professors in 
this division. In the department of 
Chemistry, R. L. I-Tasche, Clifford C. 
Clark, and A. H. Welt/.. In the Com
mercial Engineering department 
Howard C. Kidd. In Electrical En
gineering Philip S. Donnell. In 
Mechanical Engineering R. W. Bolton. 
The Mining department adds Captain 
Edward Steldlo and Prof. R. 7. Vngln, while 11. A. Vlerhollor, .1. Y. 
Wheatly and Paul V. Eaton will in
struct In drawing and machine de
sign.
The most important announcement 
from the Division of tho Arts is the 
appointment of Walter Kerr Rainsford as acting head of the School of 
Architecture. Professor Rainsford 
will also instruct the students of ad
vanced architectural design. Otb-- 
appointments in this division include 
that of F. A. Bicknell to the Painting
and Decorating department faculty, 
and thoso of Chester Wallace and 
Hubert Osborne to the School of 
Dramatic Arts.
In the Division of Industries the 
changes are: Mr. Harry L. Gage, head 
of the Department of Printing, is 
going to enter commercial work with 
the Bartlett-Orr Press of New York 
City the first of October.
Mr. L. C. Tomlinson of West Med
ford. Mass., is succeeding! Mr. A. E. 
E. Mayo as instructor in the Depart
ment of Electrical Equipment and 
Construction. Mr. Mayo has entered 
commercial work in Philadelphia.
. Mr. Fred J. Hartman, assistant to 
the Dean, has been appointed secre
tary of the Industrial Board of the 
State of Pennsylvania, at Harrisburg, 
Pa.
Prof. George A. Bisbee has returned 
to the Chemistry Department of the 
Industries School after a.years leave 
of absence for war work in France 
with the Y. M. C. A.
Mr. C. L. Larkin who was in mili
tary service for the past year- and a 
half is again with us as instructor in 
Bricklaying and Masonry.
Mr. M. R. Trexler of Monmouth, 
Illinois, has been appointed instruc
tor in Accounting and Typewriting.
Prof. Thomas Smith is now asso
ciated with the Massachusetts Insti
tute of Technology.
PAN-HELLINO UNION CHOOSES TECH GRAD
William Pippinos, a. graduate or 
Carnegie, was unanimously elected 
by the members of Pan-Hellino 
union, branch of Pennsylvania as a 
delegate of the local branch to the 
Pan-I-Iellenic convention soon to be 
in session in New York City. Mr. 
Pippinos knowledge of the needs of 
the local branch, and his broad ideas 
as to the condition of the Greeks In 
America today, is expected to yield 
much to the benefit of the union as 
a whole and to the local branch tiiat 
appointed him.
f3i2/S/2/2MSM2JSMSMS/3MSMSMS/SMSMS3M3MSMSM5iiHJDl
FOR COLLEGE MEN
There is an excelling style atmosphere 
about onr clothes which make them instant
ly popular. 
They appeal to college men not alone be
cause of their dominating style, but largely 
on account of the high-grade tailoring and 
serviceable fabrics. 
Our ehain-store sj'stem affords worth-while 
savings. Visit our store nearest you and be 
convinced. Correct fit and satisfaction 
guaranteed.
OUR OWN RETAIL STORES AT
AKRON, Ohio.............................124 S. Main St.
CLEVELAND, Ohio. 503-505 Prospect Ave.
MILWAUKEE, Wis.................192 Third St.'
Pittsburgh Pa...................507 Market st.
PITTSBURGH, Pa.. .209-11 Smithfield St.
PITTSBURGH, Pa............932 Liberty Ave.
READING, Pa..............................751 Penn St.
SCHENECTADY, N. Y.. .302-304 State St.
SYRACUSE, N. Y...............138 S. Salma St.
TERRE HAUTE, Ind...410 Wabash Ave.
WILKES-BARRE, Pa..............66 S. Main S,t.
YOUNGSTOWN O.. 107-109 W. Federal St. 
We will open stores at Scranton, Pa., and 
Trenton, N. J., early in 1920.
[2M3iG!MMSi2MDlMSMSM3M2M2M3i3iSMSM3MSM2MSM2MSMSMSJSM3M3MSJ3MSJi
STUDENTS WELCOME
Fred Suddahys Cafeteria
BUREAU OF MINES BUILDING
11 A. M. to 2 P. M. Every School Day
GREAT EATS AT 
THE SCHENLEY LUNCH 
FORBES AND CRAIG STREETS
FRED SUDDABY, Proprietor
!19091S1111111010111SCS911111SSSSS10111111111C
FIRST CHURCH OF CHRIST, Scientist
PITTSBURGH
Announces Two Free Lectures on 
CHRISTIAN SCIENCE
----------By-----------
Mrs. Blanche K. Corby, C. S. B., of Los Angeles, Cal.
Member of the Board of Lectureship of The Mother Church,
The First Church of Christ, Scientist, in Boston, Mass. 
MONDAY, OCTOBER 6, 8:15 P. M. and TUESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 
8:15 P. M., CHURCH EDIFICE, CLYDE ST., NEAR FIFTH AVE. 
You are cordially invited to attend.
SNAPPY
FRATERNITIES
ATTRACTIVE
YOUNG MENS STORE 
JAGEMAN & SPICKERT 
CLOTHINGHATSFURNISHINGS 
6121 Penn Avenue East Liberty
H11111119111111110111111111111111111119199111911111111101111011111901101111911111111111191119111901111911190191111191111EDU
0. M. Stauft
3702 FORBES STREET 
TECH & PITT STATIONERY 
Moore, Waterman and Parker 
Fountain Pens.
SKiBO INN
EATS
Cigars and Candy
TRANSITS AND LEVELS j 
ALL SUPPLIES FOR THE 
DRAFTING ROOM
Engineers Equipment, Instru
ments of Precision, Blue Print 
and Brown Print Papers and I Cloths.
B. K. ELLIOTT CO.!
s 126 SIXTH STREET -

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 1, 1919THE TARTANPAGE THREE
CHAPTER OF SIGMA ALPHA 
EPSILON GRANTED LOCAL
TECH FRATERNITY
TECHS FIRST OPPONENT THIS SEASONOCTOBER 4immmnmmwmmmmm
TECH BARBER SHOP I
NEAREST TO TECH
j Coi. Craig and Forbes 
I FRED FARGEL, Proprietor. ji 
Nearest and Best Laundry i;
: I Agency. jj.
VOIS0L1AL WtLFAKt WIM
In tlie course of the past few years 
the world has come to a realization 
of the importance of the work done 
by the trained social worker, and of 
the value to the community of study 
and skilled treatment of the ills and 
weaknesses-of the poorer people.
This realization has brought with it 
the gradual tendency to accept this 
work as an addition to our list of pro
fessions, and the  importance with 
which the work is regarded by our 
higher schools of learning is evi
denced by the rapidly increasing 
number of schools or departments ot 
social welfare in our colleges and 
universities.
1Group of players going through wind sprint. 2Captain-Halfback Latto. 3President Cloyd Goodnight of 
Bethany College watching workout. 4Wagener, center, formerly of West Virginia University. 5Mason, a tackle, 
who, with Formeir Captain Elder, will do the wicking. 6Wilbur H. Cramblett, athletic director. 7 Coach H. R. 
Beckelheimer.
(Continued From Page Seven.)
years the wo\*k was in disrepute, only', PAGEANT TO DEDICATE 
men who had failed in other voca
tions undertook to solve the problems 
and help to better the unfortunate 
poor, whom we have always with 
us.
But with the changing of the social 
order, so has there been a change 
wrought in the type and character of 
workers engaged in this vital work.
Individuals, corporations, and com
munities have had the bandages re
moved from their eyes, and now know 
. , that a neglected, underfed, rnis-Fifth jAlVG. cLXlCl CrS-lg'St. treated class in any community is
Masses: 6:30, 8:00, 0:00, 10:00 and not only a detriment to the city with11:00 A. M. on Sundays and Holy j n which they live, but a danger to
^ays- ! posterity, and what counts largely in
same 
mt oi
1916 was practically a University of 
Pittsburgh activity. It must therefore 
be accordingly supported by the tac 
ulty and students of Tech. Extra men 
and women are needed to act in raanj 
groups and scenes. Those places 
should bo tilled up by Tech students, 
as this is a splendid opportunity to 
help make a Tech activity a big suc
cess. It Is a chance for tho new 
"Plebe to show whother ho is going 
to have' any school spirit" In the 
four years he will spend lioro. It. is 
also an opportunity for him to become 
.. acquainted with other students whv.U. S. BUREAU OF MINES|moans tov thB preyentipn oC oxplo- Iiro aotlvo In 88hool affairs, whose
acquaintance will bo beneficial to him.
, , , , , .... , , ... I that 110 not only permits tho uso otThe students oi the present clay are headquarters in the .Tones Law build-1 t) t , |m, on thG !l<lvlco 0( Ivon.
coming to an appreciation ot the ling, is a lawyer ot many years ex-1 k01. ranta thB tPeedon. ot tho
value of a knowledge of society and j perience, anil Inis tor a long time boon , f , f0 the 1(. hi ,.01llro
social conditions, and this is mani-1 interested in this work. 1-Ie will be
fested in the continually growing | glad to discuss with any student the
number of college-trained men and possibilities of the work, and the acwomen who are taking up this worw | complishments of Ills organization
as a life-long profession. For many
Episode four, Coal, Is tho spectacu
lar and dramatic episode. Its setting 
Is semi-modern. Here Is shown the 
I development, of many centuries in the 
i coal industry, and of methods of safe
ty for the miners, and sdentine
CHURCHES
ST. PAULS CATHEDRAL
Vespers on Sundays at 7:30 P. M. 
Pew 58, Middle Aisle, for Tech Stu
dents.
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
Shady and Northumberland Avenues 
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. 
Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M. and 8:00 P. M.
Young Peoples Service, 7.00 P. M. . 
Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages. 
A cordial welcome to all.
Grace Church
(Reformed)
BAYARD and DITHRIDGE STREETS 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister. 
SERVICES:
Sunday School9:45 A. M.
Morning Worship11 A. M. 
Christian Endeavor7 P. M. 
Popular EVening Services at 7:45. 
Sermons for Head and Heart. 
Hearty Welcome for All.
ASCENSION EPISCOPAL CHURCH 
Ellsworth Avenue and Neville Street 
DR. WYATT BROWN, Rector 
DR. ROSS R. CALVIN, Assistant.
Sunday Services, S:00 A. M.t 11:00 
A. M.' and 8:00 P. M.
College Mens Bible Class at 10:00, led by. Dr. Calvin.
All Students Genuinely Welcome.
BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN 
CHURCH 
Bellefield and Fifth Avenues
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D., 
Minister.
| these days, a poor advertisement for 
I any location to have within itsgat.es. 
| Purse strings that were never beI fore unloosened for the cause of char* 
j ity have been untied to cfefray the 
i expenses  of the care and treatment 
of the poor and unfortunate, and to 
I provide ti sufficiently attractive wage 
j to induce men and women of tact, 
education, principle and ability to 
take up the profession of social wel
fare.
in the Pittsburgh district, the larg
est industrial center of the world, 
occur every kind of case found In In
vestigation and treatment of char
itable work, and this is but a natural 
result of the large number of different 
races* and types found here, the life 
of an industrial community, and var
ious other conditions peculiar to this 
locality.
For those who feel the call of this 
work, and wish to enter a field where 
there is sufficient financial recom
pense, as well as the personal satis
faction attendant to the profession, 
Pittsburgh is one of the best placeb 
in the country \n which to gain ex
perience, and for those who do not 
intend following up the work through 
life, but wish to make a success along 
business lines, nothing could be of 
more benefit than a careful, intelli
gent study of economic conditions ot 
Allegheny county.
The Childrens Service Bureau ' 
Pittsburgh, which is the pioneer, in 
the scientific care and treatment of 
the problems of childhood, in Western 
Pennsylvania; is composed of college 
trained men and women, who deal 
particularly with the cases of infants 
and children. The bureau has an
nounced a connection with several of> Preaching Services 11 and 8. ., , , , tVo..,  | the schools of the district, whereby
X rhrict^ SCp at . 7 > I students can, under expert theoretical
:j We want the TechVoys 'to at- % jnstrtitm 'vithin ^eir schools, ob.% tend our services and learn to t i tam the necessary practical training
t know u& as the congregation of * j rrora the bureau, and receive financial
X Friendly People,. A hearty Y! aid while being trained by the work-ndly People,. 
wleome awaits you.
' sions, suffocations, etc.
lie epilogue portrays tho triumph npon Man and would destroy him, but o( So|oncc ov0|. tho (orce8 and oloKnowledge comes to his assistance, ,nGnta ()f nature.
! ers of the bureau.
; Mr. David J. Terry, executive sec- I retary of the bureau, which has its
Oakland Community House
3904 FORBES STREET
You are urged to make use of the 
POOL ROOM 
READIXa ROOM REST ROO.\ I
House open from 9 A. M.11 P. M. 
EVERYBODY WELCOME
hands him the light of wisdom or 
Science, and Man holds the elements ] 
at bay. Thence, begins his conquest.! 
Previous to the arrival of Man, the j 
elements had hidden their treasures, 
the ores and minerals.
The first episode, Bronze, is a scent! 
before the bronze furnaces of the 
Magus of Tarshish, Spain, in the time | 
of King Solomon. Anticipating the 
arrival of a Tyrian trader, In whose 
honesty he has little confidence, the 
Magus makes several moulds of the 
bronze sword lie carries In the earth 
before the furnace. Tho trader ap
pears arid goods are exchanged for j 
bronze. A dancing girl in the train | 
of the trader attracts the eye of tho 
Magus, and he offers to trade more 
bronze for her. The trader craftily 
accepts. He succeds In gotl.lng the 
Magus to trade his sword, and when 
once in the possession of this, the 
trader holds the bronze-workers off. 
while his men steal back the goods 
they have traded, and the dancing girl 
with them. The Magus then offers 
the secret of his bronze for tho girl. 
The trader accepts. The Magus pours 
the hot metal, cools it, and while the 
traders are quarreling among them
selves, distribute?# the new swords to 
his followers, recovers the girl and 
drives off the Tyrians.
Gold, the second ep;sofie. Is a rich 
comedy. The'scene is laid in India, 
by the side of a stream where slaves 
wash the sand for gold. A Greek 
slave, wiser than the rest, refuses to 
wash the sand, but mines in the cliff 
and unearths a large nugget. The 
overseer demands it. The Greek 
slave refuses to give it up. The over
seer promises freedom to the slave 
who Avill take it from the Greek, then 
breaks his promise to the slave who 
gets it. A merchant happens on the 
scene, and forcibly volunteers as 
judge. He has the overseer given the 
bastinado, and the court confiscates 
the gold to its own use. A real judge, 
the Wazir, bobs un, and decides the 
case should be properly judged. In 
summing up the case, he decides that 
the merchant has no right to the gold, 
and that so great a treasure would 
not be safe in the hands of an over
seer, from whom thieves might steal 
it. It would be safe only in the pos
session of a Wazir. The Emperor en
ters. With him is borne his favorite 
idol. The Emperor passes judgment 
on the case. He feels much the same 
about it as the Wazir, except that he 
believes so great a treasure would be 
out of place in the possession of so 
vulgar a person as a Wazir. Only 
an Emperor could use it properly. He 
has it hammered into a crown, and 
believing himself to be alone, offers 
the crown to his Idol. The Greek 
slave has hidden behind the Idol. He 
*:* I stabs the Emperor and takes the 
.I crown.
*:* Iron, the third episode, deals with 
the period in English history when 
x Edward 111 was king. He visits tho 
.j. furnaces of Wealand Smith In Sussex, 
t*; In this scene is told the development 
.J.' of the arts of smelting and casting
,m,o production of this pageant la 
left almost, entirely to Carnegie
Thoso who wish to respond will r/ 
port to tho Tech theater, School of 
Drama, 'inmodlatoly, or at half past 
sovon p. m,, Monday, September l'.), 
at Forbos Field
(Continued From. Page One.)
This installation of a chapter at 
Tech will give Pittsburgh two chap
ters of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, as a 
chapter was installed at the Uni
versity of Pittsburgh in 1912.
Attorney T. Bibson Hobbs ot 
Lynchburg, Va., eminent supreme 
deputy arlhon of S. A. E., will be 
the installing officer and will uso 
the active chapter at Pitt to aid him 
in the installation ceremonies, which 
will take place on Saturday after
noon at the William Penh, followed 
by a banquet in the evening.
Local arrangements are in charge 
of the Pittsburgh Alumni Associa
tion of Sigma Alpha Epsilon and tho 
following committees have been 
named for the occasion:
Banquet. Sidney F. Hoekert, Jr., 
Robison Showal.ter: reception, Dr.
It. E. Brenneman, Horace F. Baker, 
Dr. Stanley Rinehart; publicity, J. 
Steele Gow, Robert W. Russell; 
boosters. Robert E. Grove; finance, 
Janies L. Weldon, H. J. I-Ialr; ritual, 
W. W. Booth, B. F. Ashe.
With the formal Installation of 
this society into Sigma Alpha Epsil
on on Saturday, October 4, the name 
of Zota Lambda Epsilon will fade 
slowly from tho momory of all but 
lnembers of that organization lo 
whom that memory of good fellow
ship will linger even a long as life.
DESIGN INSTRUCTORS
EXHIBIT IN ART SHOW
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
structor at. Carnoglo Tech. As a re* 
sult of an automobile accident which 
befell him while In the SlorrnH sketch
ing, he la in a hospital recovering 
from Injuries,
The special exhibits, In addition to 
tho general oxhibltion, promise to 
make this flrst show of tho season ono 
of exceptional Interest.
If your fountain pen Is in need of 
repairs, If you need a new, satisfactory 
pen or evorsharp pencil, stationery, 
dance programs, favors, special felt 
goods or Tech recognition pins, call 
lit SINGER PEN & GIFT SHOP In 
Jenkins Arcade. Adv.
The Passing of Cinderella
T
HE quaint little childhood tale of 
the poor kitchen maid is not so far 
removed from recent reality.
For we all recall the staggering piles of 
dishes, the dust-strewn floor, the tubs 
of clothes, the treadmill task at the 
sewing machines! Yes, Cinderellalike was the housework of yesterday. 
And now, the girl of 1920 looks to 
electricitymost tractable of hand
maidensas the fairy prince who 
makes, life easier and fuller.
Just a push of the buttonand tiny 
electric motors sweep, wash dishes or 
clothes; clean, scour and polish; make 
ice or ice cream, run the sewing ma
chine and play the piano or phono
graph.
While the motors do the work, other 
electric appliances are distributed 
about the house to make good living 
more convenient. Electric cooking 
utensils, hair driers, cigar lighters, 
burglar alarms, door bells, and fur
nace regulators, are now operated by 
the magic wand of electric power.
The development of the miniature mo
tors for the kitchen and electrical de
vices was made possible by the rapid 
progress in experience gained by the 
General Electric Companys Engi
neers, whose efforts in the application 
of electricity for every sort of indus
trial endeavor during the past quarter 
century have brought freedom from 
the drudgery of other days.
i iron. The kings forests have been j CiTlPfill O'flf'* X-\ iiRprl tn mMl I,,. n-.,A ................ VCiWrtl, W11J.CCA j used to smelt the ore. The king re* I 
( sents this, but is so impressed by the 
j wisdom and activities of the smith, \GeneralCoectric
Schenectady, N.Y.any

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE TARTANWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 1. 1919
5Xo aff-tjoar-round soft drink I
For college men, busi
ness men, professional 
men, men of sports 
baseball, football, golf, 
tennis, shooting, riding. 
For everybody, every
where, the year round, 
Bevo is hale refreshment for wholesome 
thirstan invigorating 
soft drink. Ideal for the 
athlete or the man in 
physical or mental traininggood to train on 
and gain on. Healthful 
and appetizing. It must 
be ice cold.
FotbalbBehalnt 
yvs .Tacl
D
ON I take a felJow s pipe. I ake some other possession. 
Because wrapped up in his pipe is a fellows peace of 
mind, his relaxation, his contentment. This is more than 
true if its a W D C Pipe, because then a good smoke is multi
plied many times over. Our special seasoning process takes 
care of this by bringing out all the sweetness and mellowness 
of the genuine French briar. Just you go to any good dealer 
and select several good shapes. Put them in your rack. 
Smoke a cool one every time, and youll be well on your 
way to pipe-happiness.
WM. DEMUTH <2* CO., NEW YORK
WRKLEYS
5
5I
c a package
before the war
c a package
during the war
c a package
NOW
THE FLAVOR CASTS 
SO DOES THE PRICE!
|:j Fraternity Notes |
, la
SIGMA NU
Sigma Nu has opened up their 
houHe al 5540 Forbes street with a 
large number of men returning for 
mother year work at Tech. A num
ber of men are returning after being 
in the service for a year or two. The 
chapter will be strengthened by 
Sigma Nil men coming from various 
other college. There will be rnen 
from Lehigh, Cornell, Bethany, Mary
land State and Mt. Union. The fra
ternity is looking forward to a very 
successful year.
OCI-IS
FORBES AND ATWOOD OAKLAND
SPECIAL
BLACK SOCKS..................., . 15c, 25c, 39c a Pair
BLACK FOUR IN HAND TIES.........................50c
SIGMA RHO
Ness Irwin 1U back at Tech after 
ft couple of years at Harvard. Irwin 
played' varsity football at the Cam
bridge institution, and will get into 
harness with the Tech squad when it 
returns from camp.
Vet Williams, captain-elect of 
the 1917 football team, is expected 
back at any time now. His work in 
the west which has kept him in line 
condition, detained him from return
ing in time to go to camp.
Eddie Greene will not be back un
til afler the Christmas recess.
WOODLAWN CLUB
Alfred J. Hanks, a former student, 
after spending two years in the A. 
E. F. has returned to resume his 
studies in Electrical Engineering. Mr. 
Hanks will be remembered by many 
of the older students. He was very 
active in student activities, being a 
member of both Lawtochfrar.ie and 
Delta Skull honorary fraternities.
We are all pleased to welcome 
Lawrence K. Paquin back in school 
this year. "Larry was a student in 
the Dramatic Arts department in the 
year 1917-18, and served as editor-inchief of The Tartan for a short 
time before entering the service. 
Paquin served 13 months overseas. M
Chris Bidder, 1918, is visiting at 
the house 'for a few (lays. Beider 
graduated in Metallurgical Engineer
ing.
George Donald Martin. better 
known around school as Skinny, 
dropped in on us the other day. Don 
will re-enter Science School as a 
Sophomore in Mining Engineering, 
lie has seen service lately in  the 
British Royal Air Force.
Wally Woli'e, Electrical Engineer
ing, '18, is back in Pittsburgh, and 
has been at the house this summer. 
"Wally is Illling a position as Junior 
Electrical Engineer with the Ul S. 
Bureau of Mines.
William J. Shelden, who graduated 
from Science School in 1915 is the 
proud father of a brand new son. 
"Skin writes us that the boy will 
make line Tech material, class ot 
193.5.
Owing to the early return of many 
of the brothers, the house was offi
cially opened on September 21.
DELTA UPSILON
The fraternity is starting the now 
year wejl by having a full house. 
About 10 men arrived up to Satur
day noon, and seven more came in 
from camp In (lie early afternoon. A 
number of the older men, who were 
In the service are expected to return 
to school in the near future. Among 
these are N. II. Muller, Nelson Rice, 
and F. I. Lawson,
Keough, formerly a student in Pur
due, and Voss, from Illinois, are at
tending Tech this year, and are liv
ing at the houso. ,
II. C!. Nicliol, Jr., a student In the 
engineering division, has recently un
dergone nn operation, and was unable I 
to attend surveying camp lor this I 
reason.
The houso was kept open during, 
the summer months by the Alumni 
members who remained in the city. |
A dance was held in the house on | 
Friday evening. About twenty, couples i 
attended. B. H. Lawson, the chair
man of the dance committee deserves 
a great deal of credit for the success 
of the dance.
THETA XI.
Present indications point to a year 
of prosperity for the fraternity. Be
sides the men who were in school last 
year a number of the older men who 
have spent the last two years in the 
service have returned.
J. L. Miller, better known as 
Shorty has returned to school 
again. Shorty will be a senior in the 
mechanical engineering department 
this year. Miller was a second lieu
tenant in the army during the war.
Another old timer, J. Staples, will 
be with us again this year. Staples 
will also register as a senior mechani
cal.
A. D. Jenner who was in school two 
years ago, is with us again. Jenner 
will enter Tech as a Sophomore in 
commercial engineering.
P. V. Si Unziclcer, who was over
seas with the signal corps for somt 
time, is hack in school again. Si 
is a Sophomore in science school.
As yet the fraternity has been un
able to And a suitable home, owing 
to the scarcity of houses in the Oak
land and Squirrel Hill districts.
TAU GAMMA PHI
With a full house and many of the 
older men in school again, we expect 
a very prosperous, year indeed.
G. D. Schoonover, avIio was in De
sign school in 191(5-17, has recently 
returned from service with the A. E: 
F. He will enter school as a regular 
Sophomore.
Many of the older men will be glad 
to see Lawrence Hale back in school 
again. Hale has been in the-service 
since 1917, and will be a senior in 
Science school this year.
H. A. Wieland, who was in school 
in 1917 will re-enter Tech this year 
as a, Senior in Architecture. Wieland 
saw considerable service with the A. 
E. F. in France.
II. R. Titus, who last 4 attendee! 
school in 1918, will return this year 
as a Junior in Science school. Titus 
was connected with The Tartan 
while lie was in school, and in 1917-18 
was the business manager.
A. A. Hermann who will be a Senior 
in Architecture this year, was mar
ried last June, following the close of 
school.
Word has recently been received 
of the marriage of O. P. Olmstead. 
pimstead graduated last year in 
Architecture.
OPHELEUM
We are all pleased to welcome 
Frances Steele from Batavia, N. Y., 
into our ranks again. Steele was last 
In school in 1G-17. He will register 
as a Sophomore in heating and ven
tilating.
Louis Mansfield has recently re
turned from France, where lie served 
for some timo with the 25th Engin
eers. Manslield will be a Sophomore 
in machine production this year.
H. S. Yergey is once more in our 
midst. Yergey has been in the army 
for the last two years. Many of the 
older students remember liiuv as one 
o the peppy cheer leaders of 191' 
IS.
KAPPA SIGMA RHO
At present all indications point to 
a very successful year. The frater
nity will occupy the training quarters, 
which location will be much appre
ciated by some of the more import
ant sleepers.
Many of the old men will be back, 
some of whom have been absent, al
most, or quite two years. Hilde
brand, Adams and Gerber will be 
among the returning prodigals. Much 
to our sorrow Tad Wheeler, an out
standing figure in Carnegie Tech life, 
will not be with us. this year at least.
All members are looking forward to 
much hard work this year, and we 
hope the resolutions are carried out.
INDUSTRIES INTRODUCES NEW FOUR YEAR COURSES
This year Industries School has inagurated a number of new courses for 
industrial executives. These are four 
year courses leading to a B.S. degree. 
The object of these courses is to train 
executives who will understand 
thoroughly the machinery and pro
cesses with which they will be con
nected. One-hall of the time will be 
devoted to general ahd technical sub
jects and the other half to practica: 
application of the classroom work.
The courses offered are as follows: 
Building Erection and Estimating; 
Cost, and Factory Accounting, Elec
tric Equipment and Construction, Em
ployment and Personnel, Heating, 
Ventilating and Sanitary Equipment, 
industries Secretaries, Machinery 
Production, Power Plant Operation 
and Management, Printing Industry. 
The function of these courses is to 
train executives, such as superintend
ents. managers, contractors, foremen, 
cost and factory accountants, estima
tors, salesmen and industrial secre-l't* 
taries. The opportunities open to a|
man taking these courses is especially 
great, because of the, present day 
trend towards specialized and trained 
executives.
STRIKE STOPS WORK ON NEW CLASSROOMS
Building trades strikes are pre
venting the completion of the build
ing between Industry School and the 
Central building. It had been hoped 
by the administration that this struc
ture would be finished this fall and 
that its numerous offices and class
rooms would be ready for use.
The offices provided will be used 
by the administration and will greatly 
relieve the present congested condi
tion. The classrooms will ,be used 
by the Division of Academic Studies, 
Personnel and Psychology, which is 
in great need of more room.
Also the old . Y hut which has 
been sensed as more or loss an inter
loper, is nearing completion as a 
library for reference work and gen
eral literature. Equipment is 'practi
cally all delivered, but the work of 
installing this equipment has been' in
terrupted. However, the library will 
be ready for students use in the 
course of a few weeks' time.
'WOWK"W:"WOOOWWOWOWOWOWOiOWO\O
P. LUDEBEHL AND SON
PENN AND cnAMKSTOWN 
AVENUES
MAJOR C. D. STANTON DIRECTS SUMMER CAMP
$8.50 to $15.50
CUT DOWN YOUR SHOE i 
EXPENSE by buying better 3 
shoes. You will find them far [|j 
cheaper to wear than shoes g 
which are not so high in quality. [3 
Our new models for FALL and 3 
WINTER are now In, and they ilj 
are full of snapjust suitable }{ 
for the college man.
The summer surveying course 
opened on September 8' at Camp 
Louise Carnegie. The first contingent 
consisted of 52 students in charge of 
Major C. B. Stanton, who served with 
the Fifteenth Engineers. The camp 
itself is on a level piece of ground 
about 25 feet above the level of- tht. 
river. The tents each accommodate 
five students. The first group con
sisted of sophomore miners and a 
group from industrial school, whose 
course lasted three weeks. A second 
group of juniors from Science School 
came up a, week later to take a two 
weeks course.
The course consists of a thorough 
training in the adjustment and use of 
the transit and level. It is one of the 
most practical courses given at the 
school.
!!1990!S!SC9CSH99!0CECC9C9CH!!!E
I OAKLAND EXPRESS AND 
TRANSFER COMPANY
Bell Phones 578 & 9169 Schenley 
P. & A. 1092-R 
229 ATWOOD STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Household Goods Moved, Stored, 
Packed and Shippe,d.
J* All track men and those in- *: 
terestefl in track report to Room < 
?!* 209, Science Building, 4:30 p. -J?J* m., Thursday, October 2, 1919.
J* Important.
Illllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilli
MELLON
NATIONAL
BANK
PITTSBURGH 
Smithfield Street, 
Fifth & Oliver Avenues 
Capital - - - $6,000,000
Surplus------$4,000,000
Resources Over 
$125,000,000
DO YOU DANCE?
DANCING LESSONS
JACQUES' 
CRAIG AND FORBES
CLASS AND PRIVATE 
DANCING ACADEMY
BELL PHONE
