MASS MEETING 
Carnegie Music Hall 
Wednesday, 1: 0 P. M.
VOL. XI. NO. 24GIfrr Sartan
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA
Symphony Concert 
DESIGN THEATRE
Sunday, March 25, 8:00 P. M.
MARCH 21, 1917
INSTITUTE GOVERNMENT COMMITTEE ORGANIZES AND PLANS CONSTITUTION
Student Representatives of 
Four Schools Hope to Com
plete Work on Central 
Council Before April
T.E.ORR ELECTED CHAIRMAN
The first meeting o the committee, 
composed of representatives of the 
four schools, the Student Activities 
Board and the Athletic Association, 
which is to draw up a Constitution for 
the student body of the Carnegie In
stitute of Technology as a whole, 
was held Tuesday at 4:30 p. 
m. in the Margaret Morrison School.
The following representatives have 
"been plected or appointed: Miss
Ermal Pruyne and Miss Helen Senn 
from the Senate of the Margaret Mor
rison School, J. E. Resner and T: E. 
Orr from the Senate of the Science 
School, J. R. Hoxworth and Reiser 
from the Industries School, M. E. 
Boyer and McConnell from the School 
of Design, Finlay from the Athletic As
sociation and Paul Klingensmith from 
the Student Activities Board. How
ard B. Pearce, chairman of the Seannachie Committee, was also pres
ent.
The election for permanent officers 
resulted as follows: Mr. T. E. Orr,
chairman; Mr. J. R. Hoxworth, vice 
chairman, and Miss Helen Senn, sec
retary.
The discussion of a Constitution 
was begun immediately, and excep
tional progress was made during the 
afternoon. A sub-committee of the 
following membership was appointed 
to report on several phases of the 
problems encountered: J. E. Kesner, chairman; Miss Pruyne, Iioxw'ortli and McConnell. This commit
tee reports at the next meeting, which 
will be held in Room 103, M. M. C. 
S., at 4:30 p. m., on Tuesday, March 
20.
The committee expects to have this 
. Constitution completed and in shape 
to present to the various schools for 
their ratification, about the 1st of 
April.
SIGMA TAU TAKES CHAMPIONSHIP GAME
Defeats Sigma Rho Team in 
Fast Game for Inter-fraternity Title 27-20
In a fast basketball game before a 
loyal crowd of rooters, the Sigma Tau 
five won the Interfraternity League 
championship in the title game with 
Sigma Rho, 27 to 20. The Sigma Rho 
team started off like champions, hav
ing better team work and outpassing 
the Sigma Tau team. The score at 
the end of the half was 12 to 8 for 
Sigma Rho. In this period Sigma 
Rhos five caged 4 field goals to Sigma 
Taus 2.
The start of the second half found 
the players shifted about. McGill re
placed Miller at forward. Spring had 
gone in for Howe and played forward. 
Lew Jacobson went to center, and 
Wright to guard. The advantage was 
now all with Sigma Tau. While 
Wrights . big form blockaded their 
goal, Lew Jacobson and Curtis pro
ceeded to cage field goals from every 
(Continued on Page Four)
M. M. C. S. VAUDEVILLE SHOW A BIG SUCCESS
Last Friday night the M. M. C. S. 
Athletic Association put over one of 
the cleverest things which has ever 
been done in the Womans School. 
This was a vaudeville show, and it 
was followed by a dance in the recre
ation room, where the decorations 
were carried out in St. Patricks Day 
emblems. The vaudeville program 
began Avith an opening chorus by 
Plebes. This was followed by a clever 
sketch by Lorinne Friedman, imper
sonating Jim Dandy in his posi
tively first appearance. The Katz, 
by the Seniors, came next; then 
Wanted a Wife, by the Dramatic 
Club, a Dwarf Ballet, a sketch en
titled Guess What, a dance by Bo 
Peep and Boy Blue, a minstrel 
showMammy and Pickaninnies, by 
the Juniors, with a clown dance by 
the Sophomores finishing up the pro
gram. The whole thing was clever and 
amusing, particularly to those who 
knew the actresses, and the Misses 
Caverly and Browning of the Depart
ment of Physical Education, and Miss 
Murgham, president of the Athletic 
Association, with her colleagues, de
serve much praise for the very suc
cessful performance.
MUSICAL PROGRAM AT INDUSTRIES ASSEMBLY
An unusual treat was afforded the 
students of the Industries School at 
the Assembly meeting last Wednes
day, when Miss Edith Crill, soprano, 
and Mr. Edward Harris, piano, both 
well known and talented local artists, 
rendered an excellent program. The 
program follows:
Piano
Prelude in C Sharp Minor..............
..................................... Rachmarynoff
Sous Bois ................................... Staub
Soprano
At Dawning.......................... Cadman
A Spirit Flower ...... Campbell-Tipton
By Golden Hours .....................Batten
Piano
Waltz in E........................Moszkowski
Soprano
The Nile................................ LeRoux
Rose in the Bud........................Foster
BAKED BEANS AND BROWN BREAD SERVED N. E. MEN
The old New England dish which 
must forever grace the table of every 
"Down Easter on Saturday nights 
and Sunday morning, was served to 
a large group of N. E. men last Friday 
evening. Mrs. Denison and a group of 
former Connecticut ladies entertained 
the club to perfection at the King Ed
ward apartments, Bayard and Melwood avenues.
Preceding the supper, Mr. Cohen 
played the piano, while club members 
tried their hands at banjos and vio
lins. Those not playing sang and 
danced, or else played at cards on neat 
tables provided for that purpose. 
There were no idle moments, and at 
10 oclock President Towns arrived to 
enliven the company. 1-Ie announced 
the supper was ready; with this signal 
the men took their places at the tables 
(Continued on Page Two.)
BASKETBALL TEAM LOSES TO ALUMNI; SINGLE POINT BECIBES CLOSE GAME
Former Plaid Stars Have 
Regulars Worried From 
Start By Close 
Guarding
Last Friday night the Carnegie 
Tech Alumy4 five pulled the biggest 
surprise of the season on the Varsity, 
winning 18 to 17, on a foul called just 
as the whistle blew.' The Skibos went 
into the game expecting an easy vic
tim, but soon became aware that they 
had a Tartar on their hands. The coolheaded playing of the old guard began 
to get the Varsity worried. Metheny, 
Douthett and Meredith stuck to their 
men like the veritable leech.
Abrams, the shiftiest man on the 
team, found liis match in Douthett, 
letter man four years ago. Lefty evi
dently couldn't see the basket for 
Douthett, shooting but 4 out of 14 
fouls, many of them missing the bas
ket altogether.
In defense of the Varsity it should 
(Continued on Page Four)
MIDDLE CLASS HOLDS GET-TOGETHER LUNCH
The first of the get together 
luncheons of the Middle Class of the 
Industries School, held last Wednes
day evening, was a big success. The 
class met at 6:30 in a down-town cafe, 
where a fine dinner was enjoyed. 
After this sumptuous repast, several 
of the class artists demonstrated their 
slight-of-hand skill, others came across 
with jokes and songs, Shizno Sasaki 
sang two Jananese songs which were 
well liked by the crowd. Following the 
entertainment, a formal business 
meeting was held
The class will give its spring party 
dance the first week after the Easter 
vacation. Several different forms of 
amusement are being arranged by the 
committee for those who do not dance.
The second of these get together 
luncheons will be held Thursday even
ing, March 29, and will be followed by 
a regular business meeting.
COLLEGES LAY PLANS FOR SERVICE IN WAR
President Hibben of Princeton 
Proposes to Raise a 
Battalion
Twelve members of the Aerial 
Coast Patrol Unit No. 1 decided to 
leave Yale and proceed immediately 
to get their advanced training in naval 
aeronautics.
The members of the unit are F. 
Trubee Davidson and I-L P. Davison, 
sons of Henry P. Davison of J. P. 
Morgan & Co.; Robert A. Lovett, 
son of Judge Lovett, chairman of 
the board of the Union Pacific Rail
way; John Vorys, John Farwell 3d, 
Albert Ditman, Wellesley Laud 
Brown, Artemus L. Gates, Erl Gould, 
Allan Ames, C. D. Wiman, and A. D. 
Sturtevant.
The decision was reached after 
communicating with Henry P. David
son, now in the South. F. Trubee 
Davidson, at the head of the unit, 
after a- conference with the other 
members, telegraphed his father that 
they were ready to take up advanced 
training, and to put themselves un
der orders for active service.
Mr. Davidson promptly wired his 
approval, and notified Alan R. Haw
ley, president of the Aero Club of 
America, who advised the Secretary 
of the Navy.
The unit was organized last year 
and took part in the naval manoeu
vres last autumn and rendered effi
cient service. On their return to 
Yale the members continued their 
study in naval aeronautics, making 
their headquarters at New London.
The Aero Club of America was the 
centre of aeronautical activity here 
yesterday. TAventy applicants for 
the Aerial Reserve Corps called and 
left their names and addresses, while 
the officials of the club were be
sieged by telephone all day by those 
wishing*-to assist in developing aerial 
resources.
DRAMATIC DEPARTMENT PRODUCES IBSEN PLOT
First Night Performance of 
'Pillars of Society Pleases 
Large Audience
GENERAL ASSEMBLY IN MUSIC BALL TO FOLLOW FLAG RAISING TOBAY
President John Grier Hibben of 
Princeton University announced that 
preparations would be launched hero 
tomorrow for the organization of a 
provisional student battalion: to learn 
military tactics. Captain Stewart 
Iieintzelman, U. S. A., who was de
tailed here last September as teacher 
(Continued on Page Three.)
VARSITY CLAN
?I* All men who have now inaig- <
* ilia in any of the following sports, 
Football, Baseball, Basketball, ?!* 
Track, Tennis, Hockey and Cross
* Country, are eligible for member- * 
ship to the Varsity Class upon *
?I* payment of the $3.00 initiation ?> 
Fee to J. R. Gearhart, treasurer. 
Those desiring the little button of ->
* distinction should pay their foe 
before March 23. Under-graduate
* members are exempt from the *
*!? dues. Now is the time to join
*! and become a charter member.
NEW YORK STATE CLUB TO EAT FRIDAY NIGHT
The New York State Club will meet 
next Friday night at the National 
Restaurant on Atwood street at 8 
oclock. It is rumored that those who 
attended the Science Stag will again 
witness a part of the entertainment 
given there.
STUDENTS ERECT FLAGPOLE
The Department of Dramatic Art 
has once more had the courage of its j 
convictions and undertaken the pro
duction of an Ibsen play, Pillars of 
Society. That Ibsen is a great 
dramatist, no one will deny; that he 
preaches his propaganda forcefully, is 
evident to the merest tyro; that all his 
plays are equally interesting, is a de
batable question and' one in which in
dividual preference is likely to be the 
determining factor.
The first performance on Wednes
day evening was greeted with a full 
house, very cordial in its apprecia
tion, as evidenced by the applause.
There is but one stage setting for 
the four acts. Tl'is was the work of 
Mr. J. Woodman Tlionipson and was 
most effective. The-back drop, as seen 
through the open doors, gave a wonder
ful perspective and added greatly to 
the i-eality of the scenes.
The play is set in a very common
place and uninteresting period, the 
early SO'sso far as costume is con
cerned, neither elegant nor graceful, 
and in no case enhancing the appear
ance of the wearer. The types of so
ciety are about as interesting as the 
costumes.
In the cast of nineteen, every one 
gave his best efforts to make the play 
go,' and the work was creditably 
smooth, considering the heaviness of 
the vehicle, in the allotted space, it 
is impossible to review the'entire cast.
Mr. Arleigli Williamson, as Karsten 
Bernick," about whose doings the play 
centers, has an ungrateful and at the 
same time a most difficult role. The 
number of linos to bo committed is a 
feat in itself. The portrayal of Bernicks character requires, to make it 
convincing, a subtlety not common 
evoil among professionals. Mr. Wil
liamsons work was careful, restrained 
and sincere and his "Karsten Bernick 
was as interesting as one would ex
pect such a self-centered character 
to be.
Miss Inez Krebs, as "Mrs. Bernick, 
his wife, made the most of lior oppor
tunityas she usually doos.
Miss Mary Rlcards as "Olaf, their 
son, gave an interesting interpretation 
ol! this stirring lad. Ono would likod 
to know more of this "Olaf.
Mr. Hubbard Kirkpatrick had con
siderable to say as "Rorlund, the 
schoolmaster, who was continually 
(Continued on Pago Throo.)
STUDENT 1RANCH A. I.E.iE. 
MEETS WEDNESDAY NIGHT
The next monthly meeting of the 
Carnegie Tech Branch of the Ameri
can Institute of Electrical Engineers 
will be held Wednesday evening, 
March 21. A well-known engineer, 
Mr. I-I. D. James, has been secured to 
speak on Industrial Controllers. Mr. 
James is employed at the Westinghouse Electric Co., and is a specialist 
in motor control. He is the author of 
a series of articles on Industrial Con
trollers now being published in The 
Electric Journal. At the National 
Mooting of the A. I. E. E., in February, 
he delivered a paper on motor control 
and starting.
Progress has been exceedingly rapid 
in controller work during the past few 
years, and unless the electrical man 
devotes some attention to current de
velopments, he is likely to be asked 
some embarrassing questions by his 
non-eloctrical associates. The topic 
of motor control should bo especially 
interesting to Seniors who are unde
cided what branch of the electrical in
dustry they want to enter, because it 
is an important branch of electrical 
engineering.
Others will find it well worth attend
ing because Mr. James is a man worth 
hearing. The meeting will be in Room 
11, Machinery Hall, at 7:45. Smokes 
and eats will be provided, as usual.
Plans are under way for the third 
annual A. T. E. E. banquet, to be hold 
in the spring. A coinmittoo consisting 
of A. L. Morloy, chairman; W. I-I. Nor
man, W. C. Millor, T. R. Cooley, and F. 
I. Lawson has boon appointed. They 
hold a mooting Monday evening In or
der to organize and got things going.
Military Affairs Committee 
Arranges Above Even s to 
Determine Student Atti
tude on Preparedness
ORR HEADS THE MOVEMENT
FORMER SCIENCE MAN WRITES OF BORDER TRIP
In a lottor addrossod to The Tartan, 
Claronco D. Folght, a former member 
ol! tho Scionco Junior Class, writes of 
his experiences on tho Mexican Bordor 
as follows:
Pittsburgh, Pa., 3/12/17. 
To Tho Tartan:
Tho quostlons which I lutvo most 
often boon called upon ta answer slnco 
returning from duty on tho Mexican 
border are tho following: 
e,"Are you glad you wont? and 
Would you go again?
In the first pluco, I am glad I wont, 
not for any particular bonoflts which 
I may havo rocolvod by so doing, but 
because I fool that I owe it to my 
country to malco some return for what 
I onjoy as a citizen. In tho second 
place, I would go back again.
There are probably very few men of 
Carnegie Tech who would choose 
soldiering as a profession, but every
one should be propared to render some 
kind of service in case of a crisis. The 
military game in goneral is quite sirnplo. The Carnegie Tech Border Clan, 
for instance, was a gathering of all the 
Tech men in the El Paso district, hav
ing a membership of about fifty, and 
comprised mostly of men who had at 
some time been students. Of this 
membership, we had four officers, 
about eighteen sergeants, and about 
an equal number of corporals. The 
principal object of the Clan was to 
have a banquet. We had two or three 
meetings, elected officers, enjoyed a 
(Continued on Page Two.)
j The first all-scliool assembly to be 
organized and conducted entirely by 
students will take place in the Music 
Hall today, following tho flag-raising 
at the now flag-polo. The Military 
Affairs Committee, an outgrowth of 
the Tartan's preparedness movement, 
has determined to secure an expres
sion of student opinion on tho question 
of military training at Tech. It has 
therefore arranged that at 1:30 p. in., 
the ceremony of raising the flag will 
be observed, participated in.by all four 
schools, and assisted by tho band. If 
the weather permits, a few remarks 
from a prominent citizen will bo heard, 
and then the four schools, led by the 
band, will pass in review before the 
flag-pole and march to the Music Hall.
Here the Assembly will be called to 
order by T. E. Orr, chairman of tho 
Military Affairs Coinmittoo. Tho prin
cipal speakers of the afternoon will bo 
President Atchison, of tho Pennsyl
vania College for Women, and Major 
Mehard, of tho Military Training Asso
ciation. President Atchison, one of 
tho keenest, thinkers and ablest speak
ers in tills district, noods no introduc
tion to Tech students, and the stren
uous and enthusiastic quality of Major 
Mehards speaking is vouched for by 
Professors Mott, Loods, Stanton and 
others. Prof. Ivollor will explain the 
proposed census ol! Tech men and ma
terials for possible governmental use, 
and various faculty members will bo 
called upon for expressions of opinion. 
Following tho speaking, tho mooting 
will bo thrown opon to general discus
sion and debate upon tho part of tho 
students,
SCIENCE STAG DRINGS 
OUT MANY STUDENTS
Dean Leete and Prof. Mott 
SpeakTau Beta Pi Elec
tions Announced
Tho annual stag of tho School ol! 
Applied Scionco was held last Satur
day night at tho Carnoglo Union. Tho 
faculty, with their wivos, and tho stu
dents turned out in largo numbers, 
nor woro they disappointed in the on* 
tortainmont provided.
Doan Leeto spoke, tolling of his 
great regret at louving this Institution. 
He expressed tho doslro that tho now 
Dean, Prof. Mott, would havo tho same 
eo-oporallon oC faculty and students 
that ho had received and that his 
moving from the campus would not 
exclude him from tho circle of friend-, 
ship of the Science School. y
Prof. Mott, who wlii asbiimo aval 
office of Doan of tho Scienoo Sclioi3i,' 
on April first, then spoke. He said if 
he were not assured ol! Dean Leetes 
assistance he would not have consid
ered accepting the office.
The four classes presented different 
forms of entertainment. The Seniors, 
in presenting the Faculty Prepared
ness Recruiting Station, made a big 
(Continued on Page Three.)
FLAG POLE RAISED ON CAMPUSDY MILITARY AFFAIRS COMMITTEE
CHORAL CLUB OFFERS PRIZE JiNEW NAME
When seen recently by Tartan rep
resentatives, President Adolph Shutz, 
of the Choral Club, stated that he 
would personally pay five dollars to 
the first student who should furnish 
him with a satisfactory name more 
expressive of the present activity of 
his organization than the name Choral 
Club.
Shutz states that although the orI ganlzatlon was begun for the purpose 
| of encouraging choral singing In tho 
| school, It has now developed to tho 
i point where Its object Is the producI lion of ono light opera each year at a 
I local theater. He states that the do! sired name should express tho above| stated object of Ills jorganlzatlon and 
I must be quite short/ Names proposed 
! under the terms of this offer should be 
I given to Shutz directly, who will pass 
upon their desirability, and who re
serves the right to select any he may 
desire.
Students Bring Task to Suc
cessful Conclusion Under 
Supervision of Special 
Sub-Committee
Suggested by The Tartan Wndnosday morning, ordered by tlio Military 
Affairs Committee Wednesday evonIng, planned Thursday and accomplish
ed Friday, represents the history of 
tho planting of tho now flag-polo on 
the campus, near Lho Design School. 
At this point some idea of what tho 
Military Affairs CommiLtoe Is may bo 
helpful. Tills coinmittoo is composed 
0i men students of all schools who 
have had military training o somo na
ture, organized for tho purpose of pro
moting tho idon of military training at 
Tech. As a preliminary step In tlio 
accomplishment of Its object, the com
mittee decided to hasten the erection 
of a flag-polo on tho schools grounds.
A sub-committee, composed oC the 
following men, was appointed to see 
(Continued on Pago Four.;

---------------------------------------------------

Page TvuTHE TARTANWednesday, March 21, 1917
Published every Wednesday by undergraduates of the Carnegie
Institute ol! Technology.____________________________________________________
Entered in the postoffiec of.' 'Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
Yearly, $1.50
SUBSCRIPTION BATES5 c the copyCanada, $1.75
Tditor-in-Chief.....................................................Alfred M. Stachle, 17 j
Phone Schenley 9067 i
Business Manager...................................................Paul W. Emmel, 17 j.
Phone Schenley 9167 
Managing Editor....................................................W. II. Searight, 171 
Phone Schenley 9022-J
to pieces, cannot be excused in our ease. Carnegie Tech has the 
men and the spirit to prevent this. The Tartan suggests that the 
various Plebe classes, under the supervision of the new all-school 
council, be charged with the duty of performing the above Men
tioned ceremonies each day. Perhaps a bugler can be secured Som 
among their number to sound the appropriate calls. This would 
inaugurate an honorable and patriotic custom at Tech; which could 
not but elevate the whole moral tone of the Institution.
SCIENCE SENATE NOMINA
TIONS
News Editors.Editors
J. Russell Iioxworth, '17M. D. Meyerson, '19
Phone Schenley 9031Sue Smith, '17
A. G. Pearce, '18, assistant.P. II. Armor, '19
Athletic EditorAssociate Editors
J. J. Kennedy, '17F. C. McConnell
Assistant Athletic EditorsH. J. Scobell, '18 
A. J. MorrisJ. P. Davis, '18Ida RichterP. C. Tucker, 19Circulation Manager 
II. R. Mumma, '17Advertising Manager
Nelson P. RicePhone Schenley 9070
TARTAN OR
Hours4-5 P. M., School Days.
.Room 162, Design :
The Editor-In-Chief 1I responsible for policy of this paper;-the Managing 
Editor for the make-up.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the signature to be withheld If desired.
All business communications should be sent to the Business Manager. 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be re
ported to the Business Manager at once.
All news items must be in the student postofllce, Central Building, by 
Monday noon.
THE FIRST GENERAL ASSEMBLY UNDER STUDENT 
AUSPICES
The first general assembly, ennecWed, planned and conducted 
by students, is scheduled ior this afternoon. It has been planned 
with the single purpose of obtaining a definite, clear cut statement 
ol. the wishes of the student body with respect to military training 
at Carnegie Tech. Clear and forceful speakers have been secured 
to present the situation in our school, the surrounding district, and 
the nation at large. The work which the students might under
take, the methods by which this work can be carried out, and the 
results to be expected from eoncertcd actionall will be explained 
in detail. When the scheduled speakers have finished their re
marks, the sponsors of the Assembly will call ior a general discus
sion of the vital topic, military training. It is hoped and expected 
that all students will avail themselves of this opportunity to register 
their views upon this all-important matter. "With our country drift
ing slowly toward war, as now appears to be the case as these lines 
are written, it behooves every person entitled to a voice in the 
affairs of our school to speak his candid opinion. It has been re'L peatedly statedby both Faculty and Administration that the in
itiative in this matter should come from the students, and it has 
been no less clearly emphasized.1 to us that whatever we undertake 
will be supported by the large majority of the Faculty.
The Tartan wishes to congratulate the Committee on Military 
^ Affairs upon its prompt and decisive action, the smoothness with 
which its work has progressed, and upon its success in securing the 
high qualify of leadership il; now possesses. We anticipate a svsr; ematic and logical course of procedure to be the outcome of its 
gfwoik.
2T ________________________________________
 THE TARTAN AND PREPAREDNESS
On another page ol this issue, there appears a letter pro
testing against the nt.til.udo ol! the Tartan on the question of preparodnesH. It is believed that comment, additional to that which 
accompanies tho letter, is unnecessary here. To show that the Tar
tan is not alone in its attitude, it appends hereto a list of a few men 
who are loading the preparedness movement, and the causes of 
their prominence.
Tom K Orr:Chairman ol' the Military Affairs Committee; 
football manager 1916-17; president, Civil Eng. Society; member 
Tail Beta Pi; chairman Science Organization Committee; chairman 
All-School Organization Committee; Seannachie Society, etc.
Louis II. Boss:Vice chairman of Military Affairs Committee; 
litor-in-chief of 1916-17 Thistle; member Tech Architectural Club;
Hari.v,ner of Alumni Scholarship, etc.
Howard B. Pearce:Chairman of organization sub-committee 
of Military Affairs Committee; past president of Design School, two 
years; president, Tech Studio Club; originator of Design Costume 
Balls, Seannachie Society, etc.
II. J. McCorkle:Assistant Secretary, Carnegie Institute of 
Technology.
Jc
A DISGRACEFUL EPISODE AND A PATRIOTIC DUTY
Seniors.
T. E. ORR,
L. W. SHERWOOD, 
It. M. CONNELLY,
L. M. MERRILL, 
ED. BAKER,
E. C. WILSON,
A. L. HESTON,
A. L. MORLEY,
II. A. MADISON,
A. M. STAEHLE 
E. G. PETERSON, 
W. L. REMBLER,c. NS TUEGOV
Juniors.
A. G. PEARCE,
F. I. LAWSON,
J. M. SLATER,
M. S. WADSWORTH, 
P. P. MARSHALL,
J. J. PANNEBAKER', 
A. V. RITTS,
C. R. DOBSON,
W. V. WOLFE,
J. M. DOHERTY,  
H. CHESICK.
Sophomores.
C. K. LITTLE,
E. H. PAFENBACII,
G. R. BRANDIN,
D. W. GAWTI-IROP. 
FORMER SCIENCE MAN
WRITES OF BORDER TRIP
(Continued From Page One.) 
sociable time in Capt. Taylors mess 
hall, fixed the cost of the banquet at 
$2.70, and had bills printed which were 
posted all over the Seventh, Tenth, 
and Eleventh provisional divisions, so 
that nobody would be left out. On ac
count of pay-day coming on different 
days for the different organizations, 
we were unable to hold our banquet. 
Even though we did not succeed in our 
primary object, we had the chance to 
see what Tech men were made of.
The greatest problem of the mobili
zation camp, is the handling of men. 
Men of all walks of life, and of all de
crees of character are suddenly thrown 
together to make up any citizen volun
teer organization. No matter how 
eilicient a training might be, the prac
tical side of citizen soldiery is never 
really experienced until one goes 
through a mobilization. Personally, I 
have drilled as a student, and also in 
tho service' of the State of Pennsyl
vania, but even though 1 consider this 
as mere play, yet it was very valuable 
to me on the border. However, the 
only difference was in the men of the 
organizations.
If Tech should be called upon to 
render service, how many men would 
go? Of these men, how many would 
bo prepared along some particular 
line? Does tho average student render 
as great a service when he spends 
about three filths learning to drill, 
dig trenches, and learn every other 
thing that a soldier should know? A 
general military knowledge is not a 
burdensome tiling for any one to have, 
and the sooner Tech has some kind of 
a course the better for her students.
CLARENCE D. FOIGI-IT, 
Science Junior, 
Sgt. Co. I, 18th Pa. Inf.
When the Student Committee on Military Affairs undertook the 
removal of the flag-pole from the McGinley property to the campus, 
it received the hearty support and co-operation of the Administra
tion, Faculty, and Student Body. It was believed by those in 
charge of the erection of the pole that this step would assist the 
students to understand more clearly the serious nature of their duty 
to the Nation and their Alma Mater. Yet a few unthinking and 
impulsive members of the Sophomore class so far misunderstood the 
significance of the movement as to climb the pole after dark, place 
a distinctive class emblem on the pole, and then grease the pole 
thoroughly before coming down. With this provocation before 
them, tho members of the Plebe class are not to be too severely cen
sured for precipitating tho near-riot on the campus last Monday, 
especially since they have often been charged with causing an 
Egyptian mummy, in comparison with themselves, to resemble a 
howling dervish.
The Tartan believes that the flag-pole, the common property of 
all, should not be made tho tool for .Such horse play upon tho part 
of any class, and it urges that the proposed inter-school Student 
Council take vigorous steps to prevent the repetition of such dis
graceful events in the future.
One further point. Military regulations provide for the low
ering of the flag at sunset with appropriate ceremonies, and for the 
raising of it again in the morning.
The deplorable condition seen at no great distance from the 
campus, wherein the flag is raised upon the pole and then allowed 
to stay there, month in and month out until it has whipped itself
BAKED BEANS AND BROWN
______ N.E.MEN
(Continued From Page One.) 
and a corps of waiters appeared with 
trays laden with the proverbial Baked 
Beans and Brown Bread. Delicious 
salt pork and tomato ketchup gave ad
ditional flavor to the dish, even then 
very appetizing. Brief mention should 
also be made of the apple pie served 
as dessert.
. Professors Harris and Rush started 
the after-dinner speeches, and were 
followed by the club leaders, who 
were loaded with suggestions, good 
and otherwise, a minor detail being 
the neglect to provide means for car
rying out several well meant resolu
tions.
Mr. Simmbns, of the Civil Engineer
ing Department, gave an amusing 
climax to the evenings entertainment 
by grouping the members for a flash
light picture. When all were in posi
tion and the flash prepared, the cam
era proved to be an engineers transit, 
and hence not adapted to the taking 
of photographs.
PITTSBURGH DISTRICT 
ARTS ASSOCIATION
The Pittsburgh District Arts Asso
ciation met Saturday, March 17, in 
Room 101 of the School of Applied 
Industries. The following is the pro
gram :
1. The Achievement of an A!rt 
Quality; C. Valentine Ivirley, Director 
of Art, Pittsburgh, Public Schools.
2. Hand Writing as a Vocational 
Subject; Elmer G. Matter, Director of 
Commercial Subjects, Pittsburgh, Pub
lic Schools.
3. Co-Relation of Home Economics 
and Life; Miss Eliza Fothergill, State
President of the Child-Welfare-Parents-Teachers Association.
4. Report of Annual Convention 
Held by the National Association for 
Promotion of Industrial Education; 
C. B. Connelly, Dean School of Ap
plied Industries.
The afternoon was devoted to 
round table conferences, the chair
men of the different groups being Mr. 
C. Valentine Kirley, Miss Marion 
Burns and Mr. D. H. Atherton.
STUDENTS PLAN ART PILGRIMAGE TO N. Y.
During the Easter vacation Profes
sor R. T. deQuellin is to take a 
group of students from the depart
ments of painting, decorating and il
lustration to New York City on an 
Art Pilgramage.
During their visit in New York the 
students will visit many studios of 
famous illustrators and magazine 
publishers. Their trip will take 
them in many institutes and gal
leries.
The following will compose the 
party of pilgrims:
Painting and decorating are repre
sented by Raymond Simboli and 
Welford Readio. Illustrating by 
Forest C. Crooks and Emily Smit. 
Decorating, Harry Trout and Jennie 
Bailey, teachers, Ester Topp, Cliford 
Bayard.
M.M.C.S. PREPARES FOR MAY DAY CELEBRATION
The Margaret Morrison students 
are beginning preparations for a 
May day festival which will most 
certainly outdo any of its kind ever 
held at C. I. T. and which, it is 
hoped, will be the foundation of an
other traditional plaid letter day. 
Miss Winifred Irwin has been elected 
May Queen by the student body. The 
chairmen for the festival are as fol
lows: Miss Florence Burgham,
sports; Miss Winifred Irwin, may
pole dance; Miss Helen Senn, cos
tume, and Miss Marjorie Carmichael, 
stage manager.
TWO SCIENCE CLASSES ELECT NEW OFFICERS
During the past week the Science 
Sophomore and Plebe Classes elected 
their oflicers for the second semester. 
In the Sophomore Class the vote for 
president was a tie on the first bal
lot, and it required a second ballot to 
name the following officers:
President, P. H. Armor; vice presi
dent, E. A. Butts; secretary, H. H. 
Blau; treasurer, C. O. Hoban.
In the Plebe Class the election re
sulted as follows:
President, Kindelberger; vice presk 
dent, Giffen; secretary Carr; treas
urer, Karr.
MR. HARTMEN TALKS TO DORM BIBLE CLASS
Mr. F. J. Hartman, who is the as
sistant to Dean Connelly, gave a very 
interesting talk last Sunday to the 
Dorm. Bible Class on the topic, The 
Influence of the Bible on the Student. 
Those who didnt attend this meeting 
missed a very profitable heart to heart 
talk. Mr. Hartman is a man of wide 
experience in Bible Class work and 
has . come into contact with a good 
many students, -so he ably laid before 
the class the things that the student 
of today neglects.
Why not come and give at least one 
hours thought on your religion? These 
meetings begin at 2:15 every Sunday 
afternoon in the W. Dorm Club Room. 
When you come back from your din
ner next Sunday just drop in and look 
the class over.
YALE PREPARED'TO AID! U. S. IN EVENT OF WAR
As a part of the preparedness for 
war program at Yale University, it 
was announced today that the fa
culty of Sheffield Scientific School 
had voted to offer the federal gov
ernment, in event of hostilities, the 
entire mechanical equipment and ap
paratus of the school as well as the 
laboratories for such uses as the 
government might desire.
To Publish Details 
The university, through the Alum
ni Weekly, will make public tomor
row in detail what Yale ..is doing and 
will do "toward helping to estab
lish a permanent system of national 
defense and what in the event of 
war it is prepared to do toward the 
training of volunteer officers.''
Summarized, the university has or
ganized a unit of the reserve officers 
training corps; has built an armory 
and stables near Yale bowl; has 
built an instruction armory behind
For the fA Good
College 1< ESTAU PAN 1Place
BoysMASES TING CarGneGgNii nusto Eat
Phone 9634 Grant
TYPEWRITERS RENTED
Late Models. Three months for $7.00. Special 
rates to students. GUARANTEED FACTORY 
jig} REBUILT MACHINES.
American Writing Machine 
Company
PITTSBURGH BRANCH, 630 PENN AVENUE 
Bell Phone Grant 1374
the gymnasium; organized aviation 
and motor-boat patrol units; organ
ized by corporation vote a research 
committee and a government intelli
gence bureau.
Many Steps Taken 
Yale is prepared to turn over its 
university laboratory equipment of
fered to the War Department by 
President Hadley last week; to place 
itself in touch with the artillery 
school at Fort Sill for co-operation 
with the training school there; to 
train undergraduate volunteers at 
New I-Iaven; to enroll the motor 
boat and aviation patrols; to turn 
Yale Field into a training camp; to 
make a special Yale service canvass 
among Yale graduates, and to give 
the services of its research commit
tee in co-operation with the National 
Research Council toward solution of 
scientific problems.
RHODES SCHOLARSHIPS HERE GO BEGGING
It is perhaps not surprising that 
there should this year be even less 
competition than usual for the 
Rhodes Scholarships. The results for 
the fall examinations show that in six 
of the States, electing scholars this 
yearMaryland, Montana, North Da
kota, South Dakota, Utah and West 
Virginia, there were no candidates, 
while in twoTennessee and Arizona 
no one passed. Doubtless this is 
due in large measure to the war. Men 
feel that the resources of Oxford are 
crippled by the war (as they are), 
and that this is not a time to go to 
England for an education.
While it is not surprising that some 
men should feel this, it is surprising 
that there should not be some men in 
each State who feel exactly the oppo
site. The opportunity of coming into 
close, human, personal touch with the 
greatest event in history is perhaps 
the greatest educational opportunity 
imaginable, and it is a curious com
mentary on American insularity and 
lack of international imagination that 
in a number of States the scholarship 
should go begging.
It seenis to us, as we have said 
often, that the lack of competition for 
the scholarships, in normal times as 
well as now, is peculiarly a matter for 
the ex-Rhodes scholars to remedy. 
Our gratitude to the scheme should 
extend at least as far as making its 
advantages effectively .known to 
others. We must take better means 
to that end if we are not to leave our 
duty unfulfilled.
< kKLkND
I HARDWARE CO.
Hardware and 
House-Furnishing Goads 
3606 FORBES ST. 
Pittsburgh, Pa,
OJ3M3M3M3MSM3M2MSM3JSM3MSJSMS1 
1 GET YOUR HAIR CUT  
|] ---------at theTECH BARBER SHOP
Nearest to Tech 
COR. CRAIG AND FORBES 
FRED FARGEL, Proprietor
Our convenient location in Oakland 
enables us to give you excellent 
service. Cleaning and pressing done 
on short notice. Special service to 
fraternities and rooming houses. Let 
us have a trial order. Call Schenley 
875.
J. E. T. SHUMAN, 
3911 Forbes Street.
CHURCHES
<kuslO* PENCIL
NO MATTER WHAT COURSE
YOURE TAKING YOU NEED
THIS FAMOUS PENCIL!
Because of the superla: 
tive quality of material 
and workmanship, VENUS 
is admittedly the finest 
pencil it is possible to 
make.
If. you like a thick soft 
lead that marks so that 
you can read the writing 
half way across the room, 
choose the soft degrees 6B5B 
4B.
Fort short-hand notes or easy 
writing 3B2BB (medium soft) 
are popular.
For sketching, general writ
ing purposes, etc. HBFH 
2H (medium) will prove 
desirable.
For drafting, a medium 
hard pencil gives the best re
sults and youll like 
3H4H5H6H.
For very thin, narrow lines 
for extremely accurate graphical 
charts, maps, details, etc., 7H8H 
9H are available, rnrr Look for the distinctive 
liltLwater mark finish on each of 
the 17 black degrees and hard 
and medium copying. Your 
professors will confirm these 
statements as to the merits 
of VENUS pencils.
For sale at the college 
book store.
American Lead Pencil Co. 
215 Fifth Ave., Dept. G, N. Y.
Note: Send us
your name and ad
dress and we shall 
be pleased to have 
sent to 
you for 
test a 
box of 
VENUS 
drawing
pencils, VENUS copying pencil and 
VENUS Eraser FREE!
East End ChristianJChurch
SOUTH HIGHLAND AND ALDER
The Live Church
All young men invited to A. RHamilton's Class. All young worrier* 
to H. C. Young's Class.
Take Shady or Highland Park cars 
to Alder street.
JOHN R. EWERS, Minister 
(University of Chicago.)
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
8hady and Northumberland Avenue,
Graded Sunday School 9:45 A. M. 
Preaching Services, 11:00 A.M. and 8:00 P. M.
Young Peoples Service, 7:00 P. M. 
Brief and Warm-Hearted Message 
A cordial welcome to all.
ROBERT B. MILLER, D.D., 
Pastor.
ST. PAULS CATHEDRAL, 
Fifth Avenue and Craig Street.
Masses: 6:30, 8:00, 9:00, 10:00 
and 11:00 a. m. on Sundays and 
Holy Days.
Vespers on Sundays at 7:30 p. 
m. Parish Hall and Gymnasium, 
Craig street.
Grace Reformed Church
(The Church Beautiful) 
DITHRIDGE AND BAYARD STS. 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister. 
Bible Classes at 9:45, Morning Wor
ship at 11, Evening Services at 7:45, 
Christian Endeavor at 7.
Bright, Popular Evening Services. 
Sermons for head and heart. 
Students Heartily Invited.
I Shadyside Presbyterian 
Church
AMBERSON, Near Fifth. 
DR. HUGH THOMSON KERR 
(The Nearest Church) 
MORNING AND EVENING 
WORSHIP, 11 A. M., 8 P. M. 
AT 9:45 OCLOCK 
Young Mens Bible Class 
Mr. Harry Calvert 
Attorney-at-Law 
Men's Bible Class 
Prof. William R. Farmer 
Western Theological Seminary 
Margaret Morrison Class 
Mrs. Frederick B. Shipp 
Women's Bible Class 
Mr. George M. Kirk
The Church of 
The Ascension
Ellsworth Avenue and Neville Street 
DR. WYATT BROWN, Rector. 
Sunday Services, 11:00 A. M. and 
7:45 P. M. Splendid musio, short 
sermons.'__
12203487

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, March 21, 1917THE TARTANPage Tlire
A Typewriter Exceptional
For Collegians 
Change your type in an instant from one 
*tyle to anotheror any language.
THE
MULTIPLEX
HAMMOND
Two sets of type in each machine. Jut Turn the Knob Presto one or the other SimpleCompactPortable
Beautiful workbeyond compare. 
If not inclined to a new machine, 
inquire for our Factory Rebuilts.
We Rent Machines of high quality. 
Patrons: President Woodrow Wilson Cardinal Merry del Val Dr. Alexander Graham Bell Chancellor Rev. B. G. Trant Bishop John G. Murray William Dean Howells also all Colleges and Universities 
Our special terms to collegians will 
interest you. Catalog for the asking.
Hammond Typewriter Co.
_ 545 East 69 th Street -j^ New York City. N. Y. ^
BESSEMER BLDG., PITTSBURGH
East End Dances
EVERY SATURDAY EVENING 
in McCrory Building 
6019-23 PENN AVENUE 
Elevator to third floor.
SMSMSMSiSMSMSMSMSMSJSMSMS/SMSJ
W. 0. Breckon
STUDIOS
FORBES AND ATWOOD STS.
Phones 1603161 Schenk., 
8PECIAL PRICES TO TECH
STUDENTS S
EI5JS/5J5JSM5/SiS/5iBM5M5J5/5/SJSJ5J5/5/5MSJ
Liberty Cleaning 
and Pressing Co.
301 80UTH CRAIG STREET 
Corner of Wlnthrop Street 
Boll Phone Schenley 309 
GOODS CALLED FOR AND 
DELIVERED
E/3MBMSMSiSM3M3MSM3M3MSMnlM3]
iSMS/SMcIMSiMSMSJGi/SJSMSMSMSMSMr3 
FLOWERS for all OCCASIONS 1
RANDOLPH 8 McCLEMENTS
FLORAL EXPERTS 
6936 PENN AVENUE 
Near Highland Avenue E
|BJSJIBIBM5M5M5J5i5/5J5i5/SMSM5JSMSM5J3 
WEBER EXPRESS AND | 
STORAGE COMPANY I 
Bell Phone 239 Schenley. j|
Moving, Packing and Storing j|] 
of Furniture and Pianos. Gen- [g 
eral Hauling Baggage to and ilj 
from Depots. ij
4816-18-20 HENRY STREET | 
PITTSBURGH i
fpl/3/pPfID/3/pJi?/2Ji0/pJi^fi^fr3if3iP[fDfr3ii3frarr3fr3fn3i(a
<k Clthes 
Cheaper
IstoJEPI
Clothiers, Tailors, 
Hatters, Furnishers
604-506 Federal Street, 
Ncrth Side
NOTED ACTOR'S WIDOW VISITS DRAMA SCHOOL
Mrs. Richard Mansfield En
tertains Design Students 
and Faculty With 
Heading
The Design School was entertained 
last Friday afternoon by Mrs. Beatrice 
Cameron Mansfield, widow of Richard 
Mansfield, the noted actor, with Messages from Contemporary Poets. 
Richard Mansfield began his theatrical 
career with small parts in comic 
opera. He later became very success
ful in a wide repertoire, from Ivoko in 
The Mikado, to Richard III, and 
headed his own company. Mrs. Mans
field was his leading lady.
The Weevils, a play written by 
two of the Drama students, Howard 
Smith and Sara Bennett, is to be put 
into immediate rehearsal. It is to be 
given before the delegates of the Dra
ma Leagues National Convention, 
which will be held here in April.
This is the first important produc
tion of the Dramatic Departments 
composition class. Mr. Smith has had 
two other smaller play's produced, 
while Miss Bennett has written sev
eral poems and short stories of merit.
On Friday afternoon of this week, 
there will be a matinee of Op o Me 
Thumb and The Land of Hearts 
Desire.
it was a very creditable first night 
for all concerned.
COLLEGES LAY PLANS 
FOR SERVICE IN WAR
SCIENCE STAG BRINGS 
OUT MANY STUDENTS
(Continued from Page One) 
hit with the able assistance of 
Sc.humaker, as General Lecture, but 
who in reality looked more- like Pancho Villa, and Sherwood as that of 
Baron Munschaussen.- We must admit 
tha Sherwood must have had a great 
deal of experience to even attempt an 
imitation of such a leader among, air 
heaters. The Juniors performance 
started out fine. Their second act in 
the Review of 1916-17, was particu
larly appropriate and well acted.
The Sophs, as usual, had some par
ticularly clever jokes. Their songs 
were the best of the evening. But ask 
any member of the faculty or student 
body why there is a revolution in Rus
sia and they will say it is because the 
Science Plebes stole the original 
Ballet de Russe. Pavlowa and Nijin
sky were there in all their glory and 
were without a doubt tiie hit of the 
evening.
At the close of the program, T. E. 
Orr announced the elections to Tau 
Beta Pi. The following Heads of De
partments have been elected to hon
orary membership:
Prof. Fred Crabtree 
Prof. Willibald C. L. Trinks.
Of the upper eights of the Junior 
Class the following men were elected 
to membership: 
C. R. Dobson 
R. C. Cosgrove 
E. F. Lundeen 
William F. Eames 
R. T. Soule 
H. L. Parker.
DRAMATIC DEPARTMENT 
PRODUCES IBSEN PLAY
(Continued From Page One.) 
reading for the edification of the 
ladies. He looked the part to perfec
tion and displayed all the smugness 
which the character suggests.
For interesting make-up and char
acter work, one turns to the trio, Mr. 
Steen, "the merchant, Mr. Engle as 
Vigeland, and Wm. Viehman as 
Sans tad.
Mr. Theodore Viehman was well 
cast as Aune, Bernick's foreman in 
the sliip-yards. He has especial talent 
for doing quaint characters of this 
type.
Mr. John Burkes Johan Tounesen 
was given with his usual frankness 
and was one of the really interesting 
characters. Miss Dorothy Rubenstein 
as Martha, Bernicks sister, made 
that character stand out because of 
her naturalness and sincerity. She 
has an excellent voice which she uses 
with skill and her diction is above re
proach. Miss Katherine Jones Dina 
Dorf was a more petulant creature 
than one expected.
Veolante Bollinger as Lona Hessel, 
the independent and venturesome fe
male who went to America to seek her 
fortune and look after her half-brother 
Johan, had all the strident self-as
surance that such a person would pos
sess. She scored, as usual, and in this 
case the clothes proclaimed the 
woman.
Mr. Frederick McConnells Hilmar 
Tonnesen, whose mission in life 
seemed to be bearing aloft the ban
ner of the ideal, Avas excellently well 
cast. His ennuihis shocked delicacy 
when Lona and Johan arrivedhis re
gard for his delicate healthall these 
were suggested to ones consciousness 
rather than thrown at one, and it is 
this subtle touch which makes the dif
ference between an artistic interpreta
tion and just good acting.
Miss Guy as Mrs. Rummel, Miss 
Marguertie Bollinger as Mrs. Holt, 
and Miss Fromme as Mrs. Lynge 
three talkative ladies who assisted the 
author in unraveling the plotdid com
mendable work, and had the very great 
i virtue of getting their lines to the 
[ last seat in the house without undue 
[ exertion.
I Considering the length of the play,
(Continued From Page One.) 
of military science, will be in charge 
of the training, and will probably be 
assisted by the students who at
tended the military training camps 
last summer. President I-Iibben made 
his statement to the students when 
they were assembled in the chapel 
this morning. 1-Ie advised the un
dergraduates to consider the crisis 
seriously, but not to be carried away 
by any immediate emotions.
The plan outlined is to allow two 
days for signing up, and then to 
commence drills on Wednesday. 
There will be morning, afternoon 
and evening meetings of one hour 
each, and every student who signs 
is expected to attend at least one of 
these.
I think the situation is serious 
enough to justify our undergraduates 
in beginning immediately to obtain 
some knowledge of drill, President 
Hibben said today. It is quite for
tunate that we have Captain I-Ielntzelman here to take charge of the pro
posed provisional battalion. It may 
not be necessary for American citi
zens to engage in war in the near 
future, but Princeton should not de
lay in affording facilities for its un
dergraduates to prepare themselves 
for it.
In case war should be declared 
and the call should come for volun
teers, I think it not a rash prediction 
that Princeton men as a body would 
respond. What I most strongly hope 
to urge is that if war should come 
there be no lielterskelter rush by 
our undergraduates to enlist in scat
tered units. I think it by no means 
unlikely that Princeton could be 
made into a training camp for offi
cers where every undergraduate 
could train here for whatever branch 
of the service he wished to serve in.
Lafayette Weekly.
Military' training at Lafayette col
lege was practically assured by the 
size of the enrollment list following 
the meeting in Pardee Hall last Fri
day-. Practically sixty per cent, of 
all undergraduates signed up for a 
two year course in military training 
under General Orders 49. These or
ders are issued in pamphlet form 
and may be obtained from the War 
Department. They are comprehen
sive instructions for the formation 
and maintenance of divisions of the 
Reserve Officers Training Corps. 
They require a two year course in 
military tactics and drill, to be con
tinued for three hours a week the 
full collegiate year. The govern
ment will equip and uniform the men 
who elect to take this course.
Major Dorey on Military Training 
To those who went to the meeting 
last week, expecting an address filled 
to the brim with wild flag waving 
and other forms of hysterical patriot
ism well known to audiences of pa
triotic meetings, Major Dreys ad
dress came as a very pleasant sur
prise. He spoke with the deep con
viction of a trained and experienced 
man, laying before his hearers the 
full need for a military education. 
1-Ie spoke particularly of the falla: Said Light Horse Harry Lee,
an officer of the Revolution: A :*
* government is the murderer of 5* 
*? its citizens which sends them to
?I* the field uninformed and untaught, where they are to meet *
* men of the same age and < 
*! strength, mechanized by educa- *!
tion and discipline for battle. <
*<? t **'
cies of our histories which lead us 
to believe that the United States 
has through some remarkable fight
ing ability won every war into which 
it has been led.
This is what we are trying to 
do, he concluded, after relating a 
pathetic story of sacrifice in the 
present great war, to giv you men 
a sporting chance.
After the meeting Major Dorey 
and Mr. Knapp went into consulta
tion with the committee from the 
student body.
It was decided then to submit to 
the student body an enrollment list 
under General Orders 49. On Friday, 
the result of this enrollment as
sured the committee that Lafayette 
wanted military training.
Petition Presented to Faculty 
A petition has been presented to 
the faculty asking that a course in 
military training be formally estab
lished at Lafayette College and will 
probably be considered at a special 
meeting of that body tomorrow. 
There can be but one result, after 
which the petition will go to the ex
ecutive committee of the board of 
trustees for final approval.
Probable Difficulty in Schedule 
When President MacCracken was 
interviewed on this subject he said: 
There can be no objection on the 
grounds of the inadvisability of mili
tary training. The difficulty that will 
probably be encountered, however, is 
in fitting the proposed course into 
our curriculum.
Doctor MacCracken is enthusiastic
ally in favor of the step that has 
been taken by the student body. He 
believes grmly in this measure for 
preparedness.
I only hope, he said, that it will 
be possible for the government in 
training our men to train them along 
the lines of the courses they are pur
suing. In view of the means of 
modern warfare it would seem that 
great use could be made of the in
ventiveness and initiative of college 
men.
He expressed himself in favor of 
the formation of an engineering 
corps as well as an aviation .corps 
so that, the technical knowledge of 
the men could be developed along 
military lines.
Recruiting Station in Brainerd Hall
A recruiting station, in charge of 
Mr. F. W. Freeman and F. C. Trubee, Jr., has been established in 
Brainerd Hall for the purpose of en
listing or at least interesting the re
maining forty per cent of the college 
that still remains unmoved. Infor
mation regarding this movement may 
be had at this station.
Delay Necessary
Under the present conditions, 
there is such an enormous demand 
for officers that it is likely that 
there will be a delay of about a 
month before an officer will be de
tailed by the War Department lo 
take charge of this work. Mean
while the organization will be per
fected as far as possible and ar
rangements will be made for insti
tuting proper courses.
Colgate Marroon.
C. C. N. Y. and Amherst Active 
C. C. N. Y.Two thousand stu
dents of the college of the City of 
New York pledged their loyalty to 
President Wilson and the country at 
a monster mass meeting. Over two 
hundred men signified a desire for 
a course in theoretical military train
ing.
Amherst.At Amherst one hundred 
and twenty students have registered 
for the new course in United States 
Military Regulations and Require
ments.
"The Polytechnic Reporter.
Facts About the Inter-Collegiate In
telligence Bureau
The object of the Intercollegiate 
Intelligence Bureau is to prepare for 
the Government of the United States, 
at its request, the names of Ameri
can college students and alumni hav
ing the characteristics and training 
specified in the request, and who 
would be willing to enter the service 
of the government in time of ex
pected or actual war; and further, 
to do such other things as its organ
ization may permit, when called 
upon by the National Government.
A National Intelligence Commit
tee is to -exist in every college, pro
fessional school, technical school and 
university in the country.
The officers of the Bureau are:
DirectorThe chief executive and 
administrative officer.
State DirectorsOne in each state, 
appointed by the executive commit
tee on the nomination of the presi
dent of the state university, whore 
there is oneand if not, on tho 
nomination of a college president 
selected by tho executive committee. 
Their function is to co-ordinate and 
stimulate the work of the adjutants 
in their states.
TreasurerHaving the usual func
tions.
AdjutantsOne in each college, 
technical school, professional school 
and university, appointed by the ex
ecutive committee on the nomina
tion of tho chief executive of tho in
stitution. Their function is Lo koep 
themselves in a position to promptly 
furnish whatever information may 
bo available in response Lo requesLs 
of the bureau.
An executive committee, consist
ing of the director, tho treasurer, 
and three college alumni permanent
ly located sufficiently near Washing
ton to be able to give adequate time 
to the work. It has power when the 
council is not in session.
The council consists of the above 
officers except the adjutants. It 
meets as called by the executive 
committee or by any ten of its mem
bers. It has the power to change 
the constitution ; to establish rules 
of procedure when necessary, and 
to elect successors to the original 
elective officers.
Full information of all available 
facilities and alumni, properly classi
fied, is to be kept by the adjutants, 
so as to be able to reply immediately 
to requests from the bureau.
It should be noted that the bureau 
is for intelligence work pure and 
simple. Each educational institu
tion is left free to make its own 
plans and to organize its facilities 
to help the government.
"The Polytechnic Reporter.
Are You With Us?
Up to a certain point a nation may 
be too proud to fight. Beyond that 
point the situation becomes intoler
able, and then fighting becomes in
evitable. The position of the United 
States at present is somewhat this 
predicament. An overt act, which 
mere good fortune alone has prob
ably averted, is the weak barrier 
which separates us from war.
We need not here enter into the 
compelling causes and inexorable 
circumstances which necessitates 
the present precarious position. II 
is self-evident to every true and 
right-thinking American, that the 
cause our government Is upholding 
Is a just and righteous one. The 
question then becomes, how shall 
we defend our rights and liberties, If 
the necessity arises.
The answerand the only answer 
to the above question every human 
being who has a right to claim he Is 
alive knowsBY PREPAREDNESS.
War breeds many evilsbut, so 
does peace. A prolonged period of 
peace has at least this deteriorating 
effect. It tends to stupefy a people 
into a stagnation of false security.
A Real Pipe
for ,College Men
These are two of the 
24 popular shapes in 
which you can get the
Stratford
75c and up
W DC Hand Made
$1.00 and up
Each a fine pipe, 
with sterling silver ring 
and vulcanite bit. 
Leading dealers in 
town carry a full as
sortment. Select your 
favorite style. _ j
A NATIONAL INSTITUTION"
Browning, King & Co.
g CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS AND HAT8
*{. FOR MEN, BOYS AND CHILDREN
x439-441 WOOD 8TREET
&
Carnegie Institute of Technology
THE Carnegie Institute of Technology consists of four separate 
schools, each with its own faculty, buildings and students. 
The courses of instruction offered are:
School of Applied ScienceOffers courses in chemical, civil, 
commercial, electrical, mechanical, metallurgical, mining, and 
sanitary engineering, leading to tho degree of Bachelor of 
Science. Also courses in science in preparation for teaching or 
for research.
School of Appllod DesignOffers courses in architecture, 
painting, decoration, illustration, music, sculpture and dramatic 
arts, open to men and women, loading to tho degree of Bachelor 
of Arts.
School of Applied IndustriesOffers industrial courses in 
machine construction, building construction, general equipment 
and installation, and printing. Also a course for training indus
trial teachers, leading to tho degree of Bachelor of Science In 
Industrial Education. Short courses of eight months are offered 
in machine shop, pattern making, moclianlcal drawing, electric 
wiring, plumbing, foundry, forging and bricklaying for moro ma
ture applicants who have had some experience In these trades.
Margaret Morrison Carnegie SchoolFor women. Offers a 
regular day course of general training, with particular omphasis 
on homo-making, followed by specialized training In household 
economics, secretarial economics, costumo economics, home arts 
and crafts, genoral science, or social work, loading to the dogroo 
of Bachelor of Science. Also courses for tho training of toachors 
in the abovo subjocts.
Night CoursesTho four schools offer night: courses In prac
tically all of tho abovo subjocts to provldo educational opportu
nities for those who aro at work during tho day.
FeesTho total fees for a day course aro $48.00 a year for 
residents of Pittsburgh and $58.00 for non-residents. Tho total 
fees for night courses aro $10.00 for residents and $18.00 for non* 
residents. ------------------------------
For further Information address Registrar, Carnegie Instltuto 
of Technology, Pittsburgh
Oakland Savings & Trust Co. j
THE OAKLAND BANK
CAPITAL,
8URPLUS,
***********:
DEPOSITS OVER $3,000,000.00 
8AFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
$200,000.00
$200,000.00
The fact that a personal duty Is 
owed the state becomes hard Lo real
ize. The small, petty, selfish ends 
of the Individual are too often 
weighed against the welfare of the 
nation. The let; the other fellow do 
it feeling begins to predominate in 
a way that spells death to readiness 
if a sudden contingency should oc
cur.
What have you ever done for 
your country that gives you the right 
to vote? we are asked. And most 
of us must truthfully answer, Noth
ing.
Here is your chance to earn the 
right to vote. Take the military 
training course and enroll with the 
Home Defense League. Dont forget, 
you have a moral duty to perform, 
even though you will not be phy
sically forced to perform it. We 
know some people who would re
spond with alacrity if the threaten
ing end of a well aimed club directed 
them to do a certain thing. Why 
not respond without the use of the 
club.
Yale Daily News.
Yales Bit 
Last year five hundred Yale men 
including both graduates and under
graduates served with the Tenth 
Field Artillery of the Connecticut 
National Guard. During the summer 
Aerial Coast Patrol No. 1, composed 
chiefly of Yale students, was organ
ized for expert aerial service and this 
fall assistod in the submarine man
oeuvres held off New London by tho 
United States navy. A great many 
members of the university hold di
plomas and certificates awarded by 
those in charge of summer army 
training camps and civilian naval 
cruises, stating the suitability of the 
recipient for a commission in tho 
army or navy as the case may be. 
Less than a month ago, a straw voteobtained here, resulted in a fourfifths ballot in favor of universal 
compulsory military service. At 
present there are a good deal over 
two hundred undergraduates enlisted 
in the Yale Reserve Officers Train
ing Corps for Artillery and steps are 
being taken toward the organization 
of a Yale Aero Corps and a Yale 
Motorboat Patrol.
These facts illustrate clearly the 
earnest and true desire on the part 
of Yale man to be able to stand by 
their country in her possible hour 
of need and to show to the gov 
eminent authorities their readinest 
and willingness to serve the natior 
in the moment of peril. This atti 
tude further indicates a definite real 
ization of the need of an efficient 
preparedness scheme in the United 
States; and that in spite of the earn
est efforts of international disarma
ment: idealists to stem the tide of 
popular opinion, the majority of the 
undergraduate body is influenced by 
things practical _______
FREE LECTURE
Christian Science!
-byEZRA W. PALMER, C. S. B. of Denver, Colorado 
! Member of the Board of Lectureship of the Mother Church
The Flrct Church of Christ, Scientist, in Boston, Mass.
SOLDIERS' MEMORIAL HALL 
SUNDAY AFTERNOON, MARCH 25, 1917 AT 3 O'CLOCK 
{g The public ic cordially invited. [a
rented?

---------------------------------------------------

Page FourTHE TARTANWednesday, March 21, 1917
niiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiM
ONE DOLLAR THE BOX
1916 was the Ban
ner Year in the sale 
of R. V. B. Choco
lates.
It was far in the 
lead in all Points 
from which a Box of 
Chocolates could be 
judged.
SALES
QUALITY
APPEARANCE
STUDENT LUNCHEON |j 
Milk or Coffee, 5c j !
Pie, 5c per cut ] 
Hot Chocolate, 10c j :
Ham or Cheese Sandwich, 5c [a 
Rolls and Butter, 5c lip 
Ice Cream, 10c [ !
THE HALLER BAKERY 
3610 FORBES STREET 
lie Iroquois Block. ! ;
FINANCIAL REPORT OF 
PROM SHOWS BALANCE
Only One Other Prom in the 
Schools History Succeeded 
in Averting Deficit
The chairman of the Junior Prom 
Committee has reported a follows: 
Cash Received:
Preliminary /tickets .................$ 43 00
Prom tickets ...............................610 00
Total ............................653 00
Cash Paid Out:
Kuhnc Catering Co. (supper). .$290 00
Punch ....................................... 16 50
.Card tables................."............ 1 50
Nirella Orchestra................... 80 00
E. A, Wright Co. (programs.. 172 50
Music Hall (attendance and
lights) .................................. 40 00
Printing invitations and tick
ets) ....................................... 17 25
Advertising (signs and posters) 1 55
Postage ...................................... 3 75
Expressage .............................. 1 10
Incidentals .............................. 7 85
Refunds .................................... 20 00
Total ......................................$652 00
Cash on Hand..........................$ 1 00
Paid to Junior Science ......$ .50
Paid to Junior Design........................38
Paid to Junior NIte.................... .12
Total......................................$ 1.00
JAS. L. MILLER, 
Chairman of Committee.
R. W. SPRING, 
Ureas. Junior Prom Committee.
ECONOMICS SOCIETY 
WRITES TO TARTAN
Forbes Quality 
Shop
PORBE8 and BOUQUET 8T8. 
LUNCH AND 80DA
I ENTERPRISE CLEANING CO.
CLEANERS AND DYERS 
Perfect Work In Ladles', Children' 
and Household Work. 
^Oriental Run and Drnperlon r 
Specialty
401 EAST END TRUST BUILDING 
PITTSBURGH 
Phones: Office 440 Hllnnd 
Worko 4912 Hllnnd.
n^|QJSfQfSf{9JSIQISISpi3IS!JQ^I?fSIS!JQfQ!fSiSlSJSiSI3l 
Pierpont, Sivitcr & Co.,
ENGRAVINGPRINTING I*
LITHOGRAPHING EMB08SING (,!l 
Engrnvod Calling Cards
Wedding Invitation
Announcements |
Dance Program {j 
Phono 358 Hllnnd. ;
119 SHADY AVENUE
THE ONLY AMERICAN SHOE 
SHOP IN OAKLAND
Wear-Well
Shoe Shop
Between Fifth and Forbes on 
Oakland Avenue
_ Do Business by Mailr I
Il'e prontnlilc, with accurate lists of pros
pects. Our catalogue contains vital informa
tion on Mail Advertising. Also prices nnd 
quantity on 6,000 nationul mailing lists, 99% 
guaranteed. Such as:
War Matcrinl Mfrs. Wealthy Men
Cheese Box Mfrs. Axlo Grease Mfrs.
Shoe Retailers Auto Owners
Contractors Tin Can Mfrs.
Druggists Farmers, Etc.
Write for this valuable reference hook; also  
prices and samples of fac-simile letters.
Have us turita or ravisayour Sales Letters. ( 
Rosa-Gould, 1 19 K 0Ii St*<Ross-Gould
MailingListsSt. Louis
MELLON 
NATIONAL 
BANK
PITTSBURGH 
510-5 4 Smith field St. 
403-413 Fifth Ave. 
406-410 Oliver Ave.
Capital . . . $6,000,000
Resources Over $100,000,000
joined an Aviation Corps with airplane 
work in the Summer, and, according 
to a census made by The Harvard 
Crimson, and university daily paper, 
257 members of the university not in 
the training corps are either in the 
Massachusetts National Guard or the 
State Naval Reserve.
BASKETBALL TEAM
LOSES TO ALUMNI
The Tartan lias received a communi
cation from the C. I. T. Economic So
ciety, which is printed herewithlet
ter for letterjust as it was received: 
March 15, 1917. 
Editor of The Tartan,
Carnegie Institute of Technology. 
Resolution:Whereas the Tartan is 
recognized as the organ of the student 
body at the Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology, and is therefore believed to 
voice the sentiments of the said stu
dent body: and
Whereas the said organ has in the 
last few issues been voicing editorialy 
strongly militaristic sentiments which 
wo do not believe represents the senti
ments of the majority of the student 
body, wo the members of the C. I. T. 
Economic Society do hereby resolve:
. That the aggitation of militaristic 
sontlmont is detrimental to the sane 
thinking of the student body and the 
Nation as a whole.
2. That experience shows that such 
agitation is one of the main causes 
of war, and Instills an undesirable 
form of patriotism.
3. That such voicings will convoy an 
erroneous impression of the senti
ment of the student body to the genoral public.
4. That wo the members of the C. I. 
T. Economic Society protest against 
I lie further propagation of such senti
ment thru The Tartan and
5. That the socrotary be instructed 
to send a copy of this resolution to 
Director llummersolilng and to The 
Tartan.T.EORLCD
N. E. Horollck, 
Secretary.
H is the opinion of The Tartan that 
the following clipping from The New 
York Times, headed "A Jest at Har
vard Pacifists, states the case just as 
forcefully for Carnegie Tech as It did 
for Harvard:
During the enrollment for the Re
serve Officers* Training Corps at Har
vard University a small, anonymous 
band of undergraduates organized the 
Harvard Union for American Neu
trality, and placarded college build
ings and shop windows in the vicinity 
of Harvard Square with declarations 
of their beliefs. The placard reads as 
follows :
The Harvard 
Union for American Neutrality 
Believes That:
1. War need not follow the break with
Germany.
2. War with Germany cannot establish
neutrals rights.
3. Retaliation Is not the highest form
of honor.
4. Democracy demands a referendum
before war.
DO YOU?
Posted as conspicuously as the first 
declaration and printed in yellow ink, 
appeared the ironic counterplatform of 
the "Harvard Union for American Nin
compoops. It read:
The Harvard 
Union for American Nincompoops 
Believes That:
1. This country should invite the Kai
ser to annex it.
2. The best, way to aid the cause of
neutrality is by bending the kneo 
and not by arching the back.
3. It is unladylike to stand up for our
rights.
4. Demoralization demands that wo
should not bear arms.
IS IT?
More than 1,000 students have joined 
the Harvard Reserve Olficers Training 
Corps, and are devoting nine hours of 
their time a week to drills and lectures 
under Captain Constant Cordier and 
other army officers detailed at Cam
bridge by the War Department. In ad
dition to those enrolled In the training 
corps, nearly a hundred students have
(Continued From Pace One.) 
be said that they lacked altogether the 
snap which characterized their play 
of the Pitt game. The crowd which 
in the previous games had staunchly 
supported them, didnt care much 
which team won, and consequently 
cheered both teams alike, or laughed 
at ludicrous plays, even to the detri
ment of the 'Varsity.
Young Levy started the ball rolling 
for Tech by caging a difficult field goal. 
Abrams was next, shooting a foul after 
three misses. Jack Meredith scored 
first for the Alumni, with a foul. From 
then till the close it was anybody's 
game. In the first half, Meredith, Levy, 
Metheny and Douthett each caged a 
field goal for the Alumni, while Gretzler, Abrams and Levy did likewise for 
the Plaid tossers. Jack Meredith 
dropped in 5 out of 6 fouls; Abrams 
put in 2 out of i), and Nig Finley 1 out 
of 2. The score for the half was 13 to 
9 for the Alumni.
In the second half, Schiffer, the 
Lawrenceville "Y star, took Douthett's place. A little later Williams re
placed "Dutch Henning, and Hap 
Slater went in for the erratic Abrams. 
The Plaid Varsity immediately took 
a spurt, tieing up the score 15-15. Both 
teams missed a great many chances at 
field goals. Schiffer caged two and 
Abrams and Levy each one. The 
score was again tied at 17, and re
mained that way for several minutes, 
till, just as the whistle blew, Referee 
Manthe called a foul and Jack Mere
dith made good his try.
Nig Finley came in for his share of 
trouble in trying to elude Metlieny. 
Metheny refused to be shook except 
once. On this occasion Nig had drib
bled the ball down the floor with Meth
eny right at his heels. When lie went 
to shoot, Metheny sprang on him, but 
Nig neatly ducked him, letting Meth
eny dive headlong into the stands.
The stars of the game were Meth
eny, Meredith and Schiffer for the 
Alumni, and Captain Green and Levy 
for the Varsity.
The old letter men have made names 
for themselves elsewhere since they 
left Tech. Metheny, former football 
star, is now coaching Geneva College. 
Douthett, football and basketball star, 
is coaching a team in the local church 
league. "Dutch Henning, '15 football 
manager, and Jack Meredith are play
ing for the East Liberty Y. M. C. A, 
Williams is starring for the West Side 
Y. M. C. A., and Levy for the Westinghouse club, while Schiffer is high
score for the Lawrenceville Y. M. C. A. 
Line-up:
Tech17. Alumni18.
Metheny.............F.Green (Capt.)
Henning .............F................. Abrams
Levy ...................C.................Grotzlor
Meredith ............G....................... Levy
Douthett ..............G.......................Finlay
SubstitutionsSchiffer for Douthett, 
Williams for Henning, Slater for 
Abrams, Foxen for Green.
Field goalsAbrams, 2; Grotzlor, 1; 
Levy, 2; Schoffer, 2; Metheny, 1; 
Lovy, 1; Jack Meredith, 1; Douthett, 1.
FoulsMeredith, 6 out of 9; Slater, 
2 aut of 6.
RefereeManthe, Penn State.
SIGMA TAU TAKES
CHAMPIONSHIP GAME
Forbes street to Woodlawn avenue, 
and in Woodlawn avenue to the school. 
Here the planting of the pole in the 
emplacement prepared in advance by 
Industries men was accomplished about 
4 p. m. The pouring of the concrete 
about the base was delayed by bad 
weather until Monday afternoon. The 
pole is 73 feet over all, Is made of 
jointed steel pipes, and is buried 6.8 
feet in the ground. The ornament on 
the tip is 2.8 feet over all. The flag, 
given to the students by the Adminis
tration, is a wool bunting flag, 12 feet 
by 22 feet, and cost about $35.
Military Affairs Committee.
This organization was started last 
Wednesday evening, to advocate mil
itary training at Tech. It is composed 
of men who have had some form of 
military training, but will expand its 
strength as soon as the sentiment of 
the student body takes form. The fol
lowing temporary officers were elected 
and the following committees named 
to further the work:
Chairman, T. E. Orr, A. S.
Vice Chairman, L. H. Boss, A. D.
Secretary, H. B. Gerber, A. I.
The above officers constitute an ex
ecutive committee and are members 
ex-o%cio of all committees. 
Organization Committee:
H. B. Pearce, A. D., Chairman.
W. H. Norman, A. S., Vice Chairman.
S. A. Tomkins, A. I.
W. H. Searight, A. S.
D. A. Hamilton, A. D.
A. H. McGill
H. J. McCorkle.
Publicity Committee:
H. S. Scobell, A .D., Chairman.
A. G. Pearce, A. S.
S. A. Tompkins, A. I.
Assembly of Schools Committee:
L. K. Morrison, A. S., Chairman.
R. M. Bailey, A. I.
R. M. Crosby, A. D.
Flag-Raising Committee:
E. C. Wilson, A. S., ..Chairman.
A. G. Pearce, A. S.
L. B. Blalock, A. S.
C. B. Cease, A. D.
R. M. Bailey. A. I.
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON
Shoes and Hosiery Penn andFrankstown 
Footprints Lead to Detection
The standing of a man is as oft 
os not told by his footwearIf he If 
careless of that, hes apt to be negli
gent of more Important things. If 
you will buy your shoes here, you 
may be certain of looking all rlghtj 
feeling all right and impressing oth* 
ers with the fact that you are "all 
right. Our Shoes are built by somt 
of the most representative Shoe Man< 
ufacturers in the world.
$3.50 to $10.00 the Pair Special Mens Dept
a practical study of the Spanish lan
guage..
The membership is open to any 
Tech student. Meetings are held 
every Tuesday and Thursday after
noon at 4:30 in Room 115 of the Indus
tries School and by attending these 
meetings one may become a member. 
There will be no regular dues.
At the last meeting the following 
nominations for officers were made: 
President, W. H. Payne; Vice Presi
dent, L. R. Paul, V. C. Ritter, N. 
Tramonte; Counselor, Mr. Hartman; 
Secretary and Treasurer, E. Trieskey, 
O. L. Ford, J. A. Mayer.
LOOK FOR THE
(Continued From Page One.) 
angle, and Sigma Rho hardly had a 
chance. Sachs starred for Sigma Rho, 
while Lew Jacobson with 5 and Curtis 
with 3 goals, starred for Sigma Tau. 
Line-up:
Sigma Rho20. Sigma Tau27.
Segmiller ...........F................... Curtis
Miller...................F............L. Jacobson
Lundell...............C...................Wright
Rowe .................G..................... Howe
Sachs ...................G............G. Jacobson
SubstitutionsMcGill for Miller, 
Spring for Howe.
Field goalsLew Jacobson, 5; Cur
tis, 3; G. Jacobson, 1; Spring, 1; Seg
miller, 2; Lundell, 2; Sachs, 2.
FoulsLundell, 2 out of 3; Segmlller, 6 out of 12; Curtis, 4 out of 7; Lew 
Jacobson, 3 out of 5.
RefereeEyeman, Tech.
FLAG POLE RAISED ON CAMPUS 
BY MILITARY AFFAIRS COMMITTEE
(Continued From Page One.) 
that the desired end was attained with 
all possible speed: E. C. Wilson, A. S., 
chairman; A. G. Pearce, A. S.; L. B. 
Blalock, A. S.; C. B. Cease, A. D.; R. 
M. Bailey, A. I. These men planned 
the necessary details with Mr. Weidleih, Superintendent of Buildings, who 
secured tho assistance of a rigger and 
(lie necessary tackle. At 9 oclock 
Friday morning a group of students 
crossed tho hollow to tho McGinley 
property and soon wore reinforced 
with others until about one hundred 
men were on the job. When the rig
ger arrived the necessary rigging was 
put up and tho process of pulling the 
pole out of the ground was begun. 
After breaking two lines in an at 
tempt to haul out the pole by main 
strength, the earth about the base was 
dug out until the pole could be lifted 
out. This was accomplished about 2 
p. m. The students put the pole on 
their shoulders and carried it out
leiMSM3M3i3M3MSJc!M3M2/3M2MSM2M3.
They laughed at Abraham Lincoln 
because he was so long, lean, lanky 
and ungainly, but later on they gave 
him a good deal of space, in the history 
books. They said U. S. Grant didn't 
know enough to make a living, but he 
finally struck a job which lie handled 
fairly well.
Napoleon was a weakling; even to 
his last days he turned pale and shiv
ered with fright if a cat came into 
the room. Still he put across a few 
stunts that are yet talked abo,ut. Jo
seph Pulitzer was blind, and a nervous 
wreck,'but the experts testified that he 
was worth $200,000 a year to his news
paper. Robert Louis Stevenson was a 
feeble shell of a man, but he wrote 
Treasure island and a few other 
things. In my own day I have seen 
a pitiful, shiveled mite of a man named 
Alexander Ii. Stevens 'wheeled down 
the aisles of Congress in an invalid's 
chair, but when lie raised his piping 
voice the air was full of feathers.
My friend, you have your limita
tions; perhaps your misfortunes. You 
are not as strong as Jones, nor as 
energetic as Smith, nor as experienced 
as Brown, nor as handsome as Robin
son, nor as smooth as Wilkins, nor as 
well educated as I-Iarrson.
Every one of them has something on 
you, has he? Surebut you have some
thing on every one of them; never 
forget that for a moment.
In your makeup, phyhical, mental 
or moral; somewhere in that which is 
called your personality, there is an 
element of ability, of genius, of abso
lute greatness.
The thing for you to do is to find 
it, and to develop it.
Did you ever sit down with yourself 
and ask tills question: In what am
I different from and superior to my 
fellow men? Have you ever figured 
out just where you have something on 
your neighbor, your associate and 
your scompetitor?
If you havent, youd better. -
Nature never repeats. Every leaf 
on a tree is different from all the other 
leaves'. They say the peas in a pod 
are alike, but the microscope shows 
that they differ as much as you and I.
There is something about you that 
is different from all other men. It 
may be a defect, but you can even 
make capital out of that, if . you go 
about it in the right way. But what
ever it may be,-mark this: That dif
ference is the one and only thing which 
will enable you to rise above your 
fellows; it is the material out of 
which you can make a success in life. 
The things in which you are like other 
men won't get you anywhere; look for 
the differenceit is the cornerstone 
upon which you must build, if you 
build at all.
M. M. C. S. GUESTS AT 
THEH. J. HEINZ PLANT
Last Wednesday morning the entire 
M. M. C. S. student body, together 
with a number of the faculty, were at 
the I-I. J. Heinz factory, on the North 
Side. The girls left school after re
porting at 9:30 classes, and arrived at 
the plant about 10:30. Here a picture 
of the whole group, which was later 
shown on the screen, was taken.
Then, after being divided into sec
tions, they were shown over the most 
interesting parts of the plant, ending 
up at the large auditorium, where they 
listened to an interesting illustrated 
talk on the Heinz methods, after 
which they were served with a delight
ful luncheon.
k Arrowfpr COLLARS
re curve cut to fit the shoulders perfectly *&
Cluctt, pabody ECo.-lrar.^Maktrs
Did you know that 
unless you read the ad
vertisements in The 
Tartan and give your 
trade to those firms that 
advertise, you decrease 
its value as an adver
tising medium?
PAN-AMERICAN CLUB
IS ORGANIZED
On Monday afternoon, February 19, 
in Room 104 of the Industries School, 
the Pan-American Club of the Carne
gie Institute of Technology was for
mally organized. The object of this 
new organization is to promote the 
cause of Pan-Americanism, aiming to
ward a better understanding of the 
political, economic and social devel
opments of Latin-America, by means 
of lectures, discussions and chiefly by
Murad is the fashionable, the business, 
the club cigarette.
Murad makes new friends every day.
The Greatness of Murad
is because it is made of 1 7 pure Turkish 
tobaccosthe worlds most famous tobaccos 
for cigarettes.
Murad stands alone in Popularity be
cause Murad stands alone in Goodness.
with anyMURADI TURKISH CIGARETTE
