Four Plays 
Little Theatre 
Thursday and Friday
VOL. XIV. No. 7.Slir Otaran
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH. PENNSYLVANIA
Glee Club Rehearsal 
Wednesday 
6:30 P. M.
NOVEMBER 12, 1919.
Large Audience Witnesses
Produdion of Two New Plays
Marys Lamb and Back of the 
Yards Given.
TAU BETA PI ELECTIONS 
ANNOUNCED AT ASSEMBLY
The Unknown Was There.
Last Friday afternoon the theatre 
was filled with the usual enthusiastic 
audience to witness two new plays 
presented by the Drama students. The 
bill consisted of two numbers and a 
more contrasting pair of boneactors is hard to imagine. In one 
brief hour the audience was treated 
to spice of lightest comedy and thrills 
of realistic melodrama.
The first play Marys Lamb was 
of special interest because of its au
thorship. It was written by Mr. Os
borne, one of the assistants to Mr. 
Stevens in the Drama department and 
produced by him for the first time. 
The whole atmosphere of the play is 
light, breezy, snappy and aided great
ly by a very decorative and appropx*iate set. Mr. Osborne chose for his 
scene a cabaret on Broadwayand 
therein he placed two young villagers, 
Minnie and Paul who come to eat a 
real meal on a mystei-iously heaven
sent five-dollar bill. After nine 
months of 30c lamb stew diet at 
Px-atts (ostensibly Childs) they relish 
the idea of a new and Frenchified 
dish. Order up blindly through the 
maze of menu of course they bring 
upon themselves another lam stew 
which is naturally a catastrophe. Bui 
a kind old gentleman at the next ta
ble comes to their rescue and benevo
lently befriends them, orders another 
dinner and gives them ticket to the 
Boston Symphony. Then thought
fully departs with the parting shot 
that he is Henry Pratt the Lamb 
Stew King. The story provides a 
framework for sprightly humor, not 
clever, but genuinely amusing. At 
the same time there is an undercur
rent of pathos that gives the piece its 
raison d etre. This pathetic appeal 
was well presented by Miss Lissfeet 
as Minnie. Her acting was genuine 
and full of feeling which did not re
strict the humor. Hers was the besmocked, be-sandled figure of an earn
est young artist recently from Min
neapolis trying to live on $8 a week 
but obliviously in love with Paul. Her 
tears might have been less made to 
order. Mr. Dickinson was not as gen
uine and a more fitting partner for
1,0 bored and decorative Miss Dalzell 
i*.'A.Tied the scene with Mr. Hertz, a voice iiiuoi. onergy,
Dickinson, just to hold Minnies hand? 
Mr. Paquin as the waiter provided 
the froth of the comedy and really 
made it sparkle with his bursts of 
FrancePittsburgh lingo and gesture 
of the culinary artist enraptured and 
enraged. Mr. Church seemed a trifle 
too dispeptic as Henry Pratthis 
work looked as if he were tired of 
playing old men parts. The cabaret 
atmosphere was aided by the Drama 
jazz band which was heard and not 
seen and Miss Lotz who was both ap
parent and audible. She was a very 
charming flower girl but her voice 
and manner contributed to the gen
eral impression that the cabaret was 
too genteel. Paul did order cocktails. 
You know. The other play and dif
ferent in character was Back of the 
Yards by Kenneth Sawyer Goodman. 
It it a realistic picture of the stock 
yard region in Chicago. Te play re
volves about the young boy Michael 
who has played a part in a hold-up 
which results in one of the gang 
getting shot. The boy decides to run 
away but is prevented by the priest, 
Father Vincent, and the police ser
geant, Bennett, who wants to marry 
the boys mother. The play is tensely 
emotional and vital. As a whole the 
production was exceedingly good. 
Mr. Thomson as the boy was very 
real and handled his difficult role well.
He showed us the weakness of the 
boys character but at the same time 
he held our sympathyin the most 
emotional moments he fell a little. 
There should have been a more com
plete impression of the strain he was 
undergoing, tightening to the snap
ping point. Mr. Buchanan was a very 
human policeman, fiery but kindhearted. At the very trying climax 
when he and the boy hold rapid-fire 
dialogue, he made the mistake of talk
ing too fast and too stridently which 
seemed for a second overacting. At 
this point the uadience might be ad
monished for its easy hysteria. Father 
Vincent as interpreted by Mr. Smith 
was an effective figure. This was a 
thoughtful convincing piece of work 
and well suited to Mr. Smiths voice 
and manner. Miss Dice as Mrs. Con
nors was at her best. She lost her 
plaintive quality of voice and was 
spirited, strong, and sympathetic. The 
best bit of acting in the play was 
done by Miss Floyd as The Girl. It 
was a difficult part introducing the 
first tragic note and Miss Floyd was 
entirely convincing. Except for one 
rather long dialogue between the Ser
geant and Father Vincent and a not 
quite satisfactory speech of Father 
Vincents just before the curtain. Mr. 
Smith might have rendered it more 
impressively. The play is very grip
ping and real. Mr. Wallace was re
sponsible for its production and is to 
be congratulated for the best per
formance in the theatre this fall.
----------S----------
MUSICAL CLUBS SMOKER 10 BE HELD VERY
This affair has always been an im
portant event on the Musical Clubs 
Calendar. The date on which this 
jollification is to take place will ap
pear in the next issue of the Tartan 
and on the various bulletin boards, so 
keep an eye openand be on hand.
All membei-s of the Club are cord
ially invited to attend and help make 
it a success in keeping with the banFourycar n.-.v in
The purpose of the smoker is toin-' 
low the members of the Mandolin and 
Glee Clubs to become better acquaint
ed with one another and also to try 
out the specialty numbers, from which 
those of this season will be chosen. 
These numbers consist of novelty vo
cal and instrumental selections and 
readings, preferably original.
Any member who thinks he has a 
gem of this nature is requested to 
begin polishing it up and to hand in 
his name to Jordy or Mavvhinney, in 
order that a program of entertain
ment may be arranged.
Besides lots of good fellowship and 
the aroma of free cigarettes and stog
ies there will be an excellent service 
of eats and soft drinks.
Last Sunday try-outs for the two 
quartettes were held but on account 
of the vast quantity of good material, 
it will be several weeks before the 
announcement of men holding the sev
eral positions can be made.
A Concert This Month.
The first concex-t will be held the 
latter part of this month and in order 
that same will be a success, the Glee 
Club will begin this week to hold 
extra reheax'sals. The selections be
ing wox-ked on for this season for 
surpass those of the past season.
The Tau Beta Pi fraternity had 
charge of the Science Assembly last 
Wednesday. Dean Mott was chair
man of the meeting. The chief speak
er was Mr. Halleck, Lehigh 94, who 
holds a high position with the Westinghouse Company.. Mr. Halleck was 
a member of the Lehigh Chapter 
which is the first chapter just after it 
was founded.
Mi*. Halleck told of the purpqse of 
Tau Beta Pi. It is an honorary -fraternity, which in a number of ways 
is different from all other honorary 
fraternities. The three qualifications 
necessai*y for admission are scholar 
ship, activities and character. In Tech 
there are two elections of members. 
In the middle of the year the mem
bers are chosen from the Juniors, 
standing scholastically in the upper 
eighth of their class. In the fall the 
members are picked from the upper 
quarter of the Senior class. Besides 
this, in the fall one member of the 
Sophomore class is elected. The High 
Sophomore is the one who stands 
highest in his class in scholarship and 
activities.
Not all of the upper eighth of the 
Junior class and upper quarter of the 
Senior class are picked, however. The 
second and third qualifications are 
taken into account. A man, to be 
elected, must have been active in 
school and class affairs and must have 
a good character. All the men picked 
were active in many ways.
Mr. Halleck also told of the advan
tages of belonging to the fraternity. 
It helps a man to meet those high in 
the engineering fraternity. He is 
x*ecognized as one who has knowledge 
and a fine charactex*.
Professor McCullough then x*ead off 
the names and activities of those elec
ted this fall while Pi*ofessor Hower 
put the pledge pins on. The elections 
were as follows: Honor Sophomore,
Charles J. Code; Seniors, Geoige C. 
Balaurie, Terx*ence W. Allsworth, 
Lawrence H. Hale, Russel K. Lee, 
Frank I. Lawson, Philip C. A. Vetler, 
Howard E. Paffenbach, Gilbert A. 
Clark, John W. Towers, Wilbur C. 
Seabright, Clarence R. Dobson.
Professor Slidei-ule Trinks preseixted a slide rule to the Sophomore 
who had made the highest grades in 
his Plebe year. The recipient was 
Norman K. Long.
  ----------
HEW APPOINTMENT 10 
ARCHITECTS FACULTY
ITHACA TRIP PROVES
iiiiiiiiHiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiniiiiiiiaiiiniiuiinHiiiiHiiniifiiiiiiiiiiininiiiH 
IN THE SPOTLIGHT OF BOHEMIA UNLIMITED
Judging from the catchy strains that float out from rehearsals 
George M. Cohan will have to take some pointex*s fx*om Tech before he 
writes his next Twenty-five Thousand Dollar Song.
The way tickets are selling now Pittsbui*ghei*s who have not 
already pux*chased their seats will have the privilege of buying 
standing room when when the seat sale opens.
The Dramats wont have to worry about jobs when the big 
managers hear about the way Tech students can produce an all 
Tech show.*****
The Symphony Ox*chestra in the Big Show will make the New 
York Symphony sound like a bunch of African tom-tom players. *****
Any one who doesnt want to see Bohemia Unlimited is a good 
prospect for membership in the River Bi*ethi*en.*****
If evex*ybody in Pittsbui*gh isnt whistling strains from Bohemia 
Unlimited the day after the show comes off the reason will be that 
everybody has a split lip.*****
It wont matter how cold it is the days of the show. The minute 
the curtain rises on that warm Meditex*ranean scene all shivers will 
cease and you will want to drink lemonade with a straw.*****
Any one who has the blues is advised to get a ticket immediately. 
If you cant lose them the minute you see that pony chorus, dig a hole!
The sale department of the Bohemia Unlimited Company re
quires that all unsold exchange tickets be tux*ned in before the evening 
of November 17th.*****
Persons having tickets to sell will be prepared to make a report 
on that date. Tickets or cash.
The committee absolutely must know how many seats they may =
]j sell at the agencies so as not to ovex*-sell the house.
It is rumored that some of the most prominent New Yox*k scenery j
specialists ax*e planning to be here to give the scenex*y the c-nce over. ]j
niian,ManiiifflurL^HMiii!gB!MnsimL'i!!ii!ii;iiiiil^
The Cornell trip stands out promi
nently as the longest jant taken by 
any Tech organization so far this 
year. The team took to their sleep
ers at eleven oclock Thursday night, 
after a rousing send-off in the after
noon, arriving in Ithaca the follow
ing noon. Coach Steffen ordered a 
light work-out in the afternoon to 
relieve any travel stiffness and later 
the warriors stepped out to give the 
town and co-eds a casual once-over.
The rooters special carrying the 
26-piece band and fans followed on 
Friday, arriving in Ithaca Saturday 
morning. Some little delay was oc
casioned at the field in the afternoon 
through a misunderstanding with the 
Cornell officials. The band and Plaid 
followers were unable to gain admis
sion until the second quarter. Imme
diately following the game the team 
was rushed back to their car, leaving 
at four oclock and arriving in Pitts
burgh Sunday morning. The Tech 
special laid over in Buffalo Sunday to 
give the tourists a view of the Falls.
For those who were unable to make 
the tx-ip aiTangements were made 
with the Tx*i-State News Bureau to 
have the returns phoned play by play 
to the Union. Several hundred en
thusiasts congregated here and greet
ed the bulletins with groans or long 
Carnegies as the wire brought news 
of the losses- or gains of their distant 
comrades.
--------------------SCOTTISH CLANS HOLD 
"STUNT DAY NOV.
Nine Scottish Clans of Allegheny 
county joined in a cold weather Scot
tish Stunt Day, November .11, and 
thousands of Scotts from the county 
joined in the parade and jollification 
which followed in the West Park, 
North Side. District Deputies Hugh 
Prentiss and John Rae, who managed 
the Stunt Day, secui*ed the coopera
tion of Joseph L. Garvin, community 
sei-vice agent who ox*ganized Pitts
burgh Gix*ls Stunt Night several 
weeks ago, and a program of entex*- 
tainment, reminiscent of early Scotch 
times was given.
The clans which participated are 
Clans McPherson, Clan Cameron, 
Clan Robex-tson, Clan Douglas, Clan 
McKenzie, Clan Donald, Clan Mc
Gregor, Clan Ranold and Clan Gor
don.
A parade headed by a Kilty band, 
started from the courthouse at 2:30 
oclock the afternoon of armistice 
day. District Deputy Prentiss was 
grand max*shal. The parade traversed 
the principal downtown streets and 
was reviewed at West Park where 
the entex-tainment was staged.
Scotch dances, singing, drills and 
speeches were the features of the 
park entex*tainment. Many of the 
entertainex*s were in costome. Na
tional Secretax*y Thomas R. P. Gibbs 
of Boston, of the National Order of 
Scottish Clans attended as an honor 
guest.
CLUBS FIRST SMOKER
Capt. T. W. ,1 How, who has been 
attached to Milit x*y Headquarters at 
Montreal since \ ay, 1916, in various 
capacities, and si ce December of last 
year in charge of the Information Bu
reau in connectio n with the demobili
zation of the Canadian Expeditionary 
Fox*ces, has been appointed Associate 
Professor in Design at the School of 
Architecture, Division of the Arts, at 
the Carnegie Inst itute of Technology. 
Capt. Ludlow 'ill be demobilized 
from the C. E. F. on October 31st and 
will come here vhere he will enter 
upon his new d'.ties November 1st. 
It is understood that Capt. Ludlows 
appointment is a t excellent one, with 
much promise fo the future, and he 
has been congra' dated by his brother 
officers at headt carters on returning 
to his profession -o speedily after de
mobilization. Th< Information Bureau 
of which he wap-ijchief officer, has al
ready been close.'!, and Capt. Ludlow 
is now clearing ip the details of the 
office. .Capt. Thomas W. Ludlow is one of 
the Americ- *i c tizens who came to 
Montreal to ngi'ge in academic work, 
and when th wm* broke out dropped 
the gown for khaki, being prevented 
by physical reasons from going over 
seas.
He was born at New York, of 
Scotch and English parentage, and 
studied architecture at Columbia Uni
versity, New York, and LEcole des 
Beaux Arts, Paris, where he carried 
on his studies fo.ltwo years. He grad
uated from Columbia University with 
degrees of Cacli'.*lor of Science and 
M. A.
On returning rrom Paris he prac
ticed as an architect at New York for 
two years, and at the same time was 
lecturer in architecture at Columbia 
University. In 1910, he came too Mon
treal, as assistant, to the Professor of 
Architecture at McGill University, 
and three years later was advanced to 
an associate professorship, at the 
same time practicing his profession 
here.
After the beginning of McGills 
war activitiesin 1914, he joined the 
McGill C. O. T. C. and, after qualify
ing for rank was appointed lieutenant 
with the 58th Westmount Rifles, un
der Lt.-Col. Strange. He was ap
pointed assistant adjutant and then 
adjutant, and la er on musketry in
structor with the battalion.
He joined the ('. E. F. in May, 1916, 
when he was app' inlod Assistant Pro
vo* ---r.\ . . ......l: ~
under General Wilson, then Comman
dant. When the camp closed he re
turned to Montreal and was appointed 
to the instructional cadre, teaching 
musketry and infantry drill.
In June,. 1917, with.the enactment 
of the Military Service Act this in
struction was discontinued, and Capt. 
Ludlow was transferred to the of
fice of the A. A. G. at Headquarters, 
where he continued until demobiliza
tion commenced, when he was ap
pointed to take charge of tho Informa
tion Bureau at Headquarters in that 
capacity he rendered valuable service 
to the many relatives of returning 
soldiers, as well as to the troops them
selves after their return.
Capt. Ludlow will be accompanied 
to Pittsburgh by Mrs. Ludlow and 
their two daughters.
The Cosmopolitan Clubs first social 
gathering took the form of a getacquainted meeting and smoker. A 
goodly number turned out and spent 
P pleasant evening in the Civil Club 
Room in Science Building. Secretary 
Baker who was making a visit of the 
Night Science classes gave a very in
teresting talk. Dean Mott followed 
with a short speech after which Mr. 
Moore of the Pitt Y. M. C. A. spoke 
at some length on the organization 
and activities of Cosmopolitan Clubs 
lit other institutions. He was on the 
board of directors of the Cornell Cos
mopolitan for several years. A jazzy 
orchestra furnished several selections. 
Smokes and other refreshments were 
were enjoyed by all.
The executive committee is plan
ning for several interesting and in
structive meetings for the winter sea
son. It is hoped that within a short 
time the club will be able to provide 
itself with a club room where its 
members may gather and increase 
their fellowship.
All members are asked to watch the 
boards for important announcements 
regarding a-special meeting to be held 
sometime next week.
--------------------
Plaid Gridders Vanquished byl
Strong Cornell Eleven 20-0
Team Plays Hard but is Disheartened from Beginning.
Loomis and Godden Star.
NI. H. D. ASSE HEARS INTERESTING TALK
In the place of Dean Breed who is 
ill at present Miss Paxry introduced 
Rev. Dr. Kerr of the Shadyside Pres
byterian church, the principal speaker 
at the weekly assembly. Dr. Ken* 
took as his subject Theodore Roose
velt. Very informally and interest
ingly he outlined the three principal 
characteristics of Roosevelt, namely 
his delicious sense of humor, his love 
of home and his rendering of service 
to all his fellowment. Dr. Kerr rec
ommended to all the reading of Mr. 
Roosevelts letters to his children as 
something which would give us all a 
greater insight into the powerful mind 
of the Big Stick.
Di*. Kerr has always been a true 
friend of all Techites and he needed 
no introduction to the uppei'classmen. 
He made himself a favorite with the 
plebes by saying they wex*e the bright
est and prettiest irshmen he had ever 
seen. After Dr. Kex*rs talk a song 
was given adn he left. Everyone 
hopes he .will return soon.
Several announcements were made. 
The try-outs for the glee club were 
announced to take place Tuesday, No
vember 12. A great many applicants 
for the glee club have been found and 
as the glee club is limited to a mem
bership of 35, considerable competi
tion will take place. Candidates are 
tried out by Mr. Harvey Gaul, a wellknown Pittsburgher in musical cir
cles.
Kenneth Thompson from the 
Drama School spoke a few words 
about Bohemia Unlimited. He de
scribed the main features of the at
traction and urged all not to miss it. 
Tickets will be on sale this week. 
Mary Bechtel has charge of the ticket 
.sale in M. M. Assembly closed with 
the singing of Dear Old Tech. The 
complimentary Calendar of Events, 
given by the Graphica were distrib
uted.
mm
Until further iiotice all pub
licity on Bohemia Unlimited 
has been stoppej
BnnmBiiinniBiitcBWBHiHjnql
AND PLANS YEARS WORK
The Athletic Board of Control met 
and reorganized last Monday eveing. Ii. C. Hammann of Industries 
was chosen president, R. W. Schmertz, 
Design, secretary, and C. B. Schmidt 
of Science, treasurer. The other mem
bers of the board are Me Dade of Sci
ence and Dick Merrill of Science 
Alumni and Harry Zehfuss of Indus
tries alumni. Dean Tarbell and Dr. 
Marks are members ex-officio. The 
board is planning to revise the con
stitution. Tentative plans for tho 
season were made.
II. C. Iiammann reported to the 
board the work of the blanket fund 
committee from Industries and turned 
over to the board about $00. After 
the start made by the Industries and 
Science School assessed the Froslimcn but had 110 report to offer at the 
meeting. The board is planning to 
have the blankets in time for the 
Pitt-Tech game.
ON WEDNESDAY NIGHT
The American Association of En
gineers is holding its first meeting to
night (Wednesday) in the Science 
Club Room at 8:30. This mooting will 
start the C. 1. '1. Chapter oil with a 
hang. All members and applicants for 
membership are to be there and they 
may invite frjends in Science School. 
'I1 lie program is going to be very fine. 
There will be two speakers, each with 
an important message, tip to the 
time of writing they have not been 
announced but their names will he 
posted on tho Science bulletin boards. 
Besides the speakers there will be 
eats, smokes, music and other forms 
of entertainment. A big crowd is ex
pected.
The C. I. T. Chapter of the A. A. E. 
is growing quickly. There are now 
over sixty members and applicants, 
and there will probably be 150 by 
Christmas. Carnegie Tech will prob
ably have the biggest chapter in the 
country.
--------------------
VISIT LITTLE THEATRE
Friday afternoon the drama depart
ment was host to two local theatrical 
companies now playing in Pittsburgh 
The Rose of China company and 
the Penrod. The Penrod company 
was much interested, the school and 
the pex*formance ,and running a sec
ond week engagement of their own, 
ax*e planning to make another ti*ip 
here next Friday. They are planning 
to take lunch in the beanery and see 
the afternoon show, The Nursex*y 
Maid of Heaven. Penrod and Sam 
Williams will both be here. They 
say they ax*e very anxious to meet all 
the girls and. will be on the stage af
ter the afternoon show.
JUNIORS AND SOPHS 
TO COMPETE IN GAME
Next Thursday afternoon at 4:30 
a volley-ball game between the Junior 
and Sophomore classes will be staged 
in the gym. Intense interest is being 
shown in the game. Miss Patton, the 
gymnasium teacher, is coaching both 
teams, The two teams have been 
practicing every day lately, Volley
ball is taking the place of hockey this 
year. The bad weather spoiled all 
the plans for hockey, as gym classes 
were only out in the field two or three 
times.
DIVISION OF THE" ARTS
At the last business meeting of the 
Sophomox'e class, Division of the Arts, 
i*epox'ts were heard from the plebe 
discipline committee, the smock com
mittee, and the dance committee. The 
class voted to hold a dance the second week in Decembex*,
In sixty minutes of the hardest kind 
of football the Tartan hosts tasted 
bitter defeat at the hands of tho 
huskey Red eleven 011 Schoellkopf 
field last Saturday afternoon. But 
this is purely the numerical side of 
the clash. If the victory had attend
ed on fight and nerve and just pure 
bull-dog grit then the laurels go to 
the Plaid, for no team ever displayed 
a harder, scrappier and more stub
born-brand of football than did Tech 
Saturday. But fate withheld the vic
tory and the heavier weight and 
breaks of the game tipped tho scales 
in the opponents favor. Ideal weatli 
er greeted the two elevents and the 
seven .thousand fans as the former 
ran out into the field promptly at 
two oclock. The gridiron was hard and fast.
After the first few minutes of play 
it was noticeable that the Ithacans 
had been at the cleaners for the past 
week. The fast machine which Capt. 
Slieverick was navigating was a mark
ed contrast to the one which has been 
floundering through its schedule for 
the past five seasons.
Cornell Scored Early.
The Red lost no time in getting the 
pigskin into action and from the first 
kick-off rushed and passed the oval 
down the field ending but a few 
inches from Techs goal 011 a fourth 
down. Whether or not the ball was 
wormed over the chalk mark in the 
next play is a matter of discussion. 
Spectators claim the Steflen line held 
to the inch and the tally given was 
due to the poor judgment of the of
ficials. The Red drive was also con
siderably aided bj the overeagorness 
of our players which resulted in sev
eral penalties.
From this time on, however, tlu 
Plaid line was practically air-tight, 
yielding ground only by inches and 
that after the most stubborn opposl tion.
In the second half the Scientists 
made their most successful attempt 
for a touchdown when Godden snatch
ing a forward pass from Moon carried 
it to the Cornell 22-yard line. Time 
for the half wy- nim,,..., this point
|,e|()>M-_ /; wr,,IriOOfi !,-( .. . 1
furtlior. . m JL.a*stellar
famo throughout niinu..,,-substantial 
gains in his rushes through tackle 
and around the ends. Moon contrib
uted several long loan punts, but poor 
control of his forward passos sacri
ficed several downs. Fletcher, who is 
recovering nicely from his Allegheny 
injury, was allowed in the fray for 
a few minutes and showed up well. 
Godden suffered injuries during tho 
third quarter when he was knocked 
unconscious In making a tackle.
Severick, tho lied captain, starred 
easily for Ithaca, scoring all of his 
teams tallies. Those consisted of 
-wo touchdowns, two field goals and 
both goals from touchdown.
First Quarter.
Morrell, the Cornell center, kicked 
to Levy, who ran It to the 24-yard 
line. Loomis made five at center. 
Baldwin plowed through center for 
I wo more. Loomis gained seven, put
ting the ball on the Cornell 38-yard 
line. Levy gained at left end. Mar
shall ran through the Red line for 
seven yards. Moon made three at 
center, Loomis made one at center. 
Marshall ran around left end for five 
yards. Marshall lost one at the other 
end. Moon punted to Davies 011 the 
Cornell 25-yard line. Tech was pen
alized five for roughing the kicker 
when Shiverick attempted to punt. 
MacKenzie gained seven at right and 
Shiverick punted to Marshall on the 
Cornell 45-yard line. Levy skirted 
left end as the whistle marked the 
end of the first quartex*.
Second Quarter.
Loomis failed at left end. Moon 
punted to Shiverick on the Tech 28- 
yard line, who carried it back eight 
yards. Davies failed at center on a 
fake kick formation. Livingston gain
ed three at centre. Shiverick punted 
to Levy, who fumbled, Knaus recover
ing the ball. MacKenzie gained two 
around right end. Davies failed a 
forward pass to MacKenzie. Shiverick 
dropped one over from the 40-yard 
line, scoring a field goal. Score, Cornell, 10: Tech, 0.
Horrcll kicked off to Marshall on 
the 10-yard line. He ran it back 20 
yards. Marshall made two at left end. 
Baldwin failed at center. Moon punt
ed to Shiverick on the 37-yard line, 
who ran it back five yards 011 the side
lines. MacKenzie gained three at left 
tackle. Shiverick punted to Baldwin, 
who fell over Levy and was downed, 
Phil Marshall gained four at right 
end, Loomis broke through center 
for a four-yard gain, Baldwin failed 
to gain. Moon kicked to Horrcll, who 
was dropped in his tracks by Wittner. 
Davies failed at center. On an end 
run Shiverick was thrown for a fiveyard loss. He then punted to Loomis, 
Knaus dropping him on the Tech 37- 
yard line, Loomis carried it through 
center for five yards. He gained one 
more on another plunge, Loomis 
again hit the Red line for three yards. 
Moon punted to Shiverick on his own 
10-yard line. He ran it to the 15- 
yard line, where Williams threw him. 
Shiverick punted to Levy, who was 
throw.-. <ur a loss on the 49-yard line. 
Marshall lost one at left end. Moon 
attempted a forward, throwing it out 
of bounds. He failed anothex*. Moon 
then punted over the Cornell goal
line. Shiverick made five through 
right tackle. MacKenzie gained three 
more at the same spot. Shiverick 
made it first down and 10 on tho Tech 10-yard line.
MacKenzie lost one at center. Dav
ies gained one through center. Tech 
was playing good ball and holding 
their own. Shiverick punted to Levy, 
who was tackled 011 the Tech 33-yard 
line. Marshall made five through 
tackle. Loomis made another at left 
tackle. _ Baldwin ran through left 
tackle for two. Cornell was penalized 
tor off side. Moon failed another for
ward. He threw another away. On 
a third attempt a Red player touched 
the ball, Godden, the Plaid end, catch
ing the ball and running for a 25-yard 
gain. As Marshall made one on the 
Cornell 10-yard line the end of the 
quarter was announced.
Third Quarter.
^ Ilorrell kicked to Marshall on the 
Tech 10-yard line. The Plaid captain 
carried it back 10 yards. Marshall 
failed to gain. He then ran through 
tackle for five yards. Loomis made 
three at center. Baldwin made it first 
and 10 011 a brush off tackle. Levy 
gained four at center. Loomis got 
away for a 12-yard gain 011 Cornells 
49-yard line. Loomis failed at centor. 
Levy gained three at left end. Moon 
failed a forward to Godden. He thon 
punted to Shiverick on the Cornell 10- 
yard line. It was returned three yards. 
Shiverick punted to Levy, Knaus 
downing him in his tracks on the Cor
nell 48-yard line. Moon lost four on 
an end run. Loomis made ono. Moon 
failed another forward. Moon punt
ed it over the Cornell goal. Shiverick 
punted to Levy on Cornells 45-yard 
line. Marshall gained three around 
right end. Loomis gained one at right 
tackle. Flotchor, subbing for Levy, 
ran it for first down and 10. Baldwin 
made two more. The Rod line broke 
through and smothered Baldwin at
tempt at center. Tech was penalized 
15 yards for hurdling Moon failed 
another forward. Marshall blocked 
Moons attempt, at a punt, Cornells 
ball on Techs 48-yard line. Davies 
made six at left end. Davies hurled 
m  ' .' < .1 in;!,^r6!(U4v<Vy.<.o Colvin on Techs 25-yard line.
Moon paused a forward pass to 
Hayes on the Tech 33-yard line. It 
was a pretty, clean pass, Hayes fall
ing out of bounds. Fletcher lost ono 
around loft end. He failed to gain at 
right end. Brunwassor and Marshall 
collided oa a nattempted criss-cross 
for a six-yard gain. Moon failed a 
forward pass. Moon failed a forward 
again. Tech was losing downs by In
complete passos. Moon punted to 
Shiverick on CorneHs 40-yard line. 
Locklor ran through the Plaid line 
for a six-yard gain, lie made tho full 
(Continued on page 3.)
FOUR NEW P1AYS PRESENTED Elf SCHOOL OE DRAMA
The Drama School has boon on 
Chorette for the last week, and as 
a result plays have been presented 
with great regularity  two Friday 
afternoon, two Friday and Saturday 
evenings and a bill of three 011 Tues
day, Thursday and Saturday evenings, 
with a matinee next Friday afternoon.
Marys Lamb, by Hubert Osbox*n, 
will be presented again Tuesday, 
Thursday and Saturday, together with 
BlackbeiTyin  by Howard Smith, 
and The Nursery Maid of Heaven 
by Thomas Wood Stevens.
The casts are as follows:
Marys Lamb
A Man.........................Ross Hertz
A Woman........... Cloyde Dalzell
A Waiter .... Lawrence Paquin 
A Bus Boy .... Howard Claney
A Flower Girl..........Alma Lotz
An Old Man........James Church
A Girl ................... Mary Lissfelt
A Boy ........... Bishop Dickenson
Blackberryin  a New England 
character play, is unique in that the 
only male thing in the cast is a 
voice.
The cast is:
Blackberryin .
Mis Waste .............. Sara Floyd
Phila...............Georgette Schultz
Dorcas .................... Ellen Crowe
Mis Granger .. Elizabeth Smith 
Mis Whitmore .. Miss Morrison
The third play, the action of which 
takes place in an Italian Convent, is 
religious in theme, and novel in exe
cution.
The cast is:
The Nursery Maid of Heaven. 
Sister Benvenuta .. Hazel Heck 
Sister Grimana .... Alicia Guthrie 
Sister Rosalba ... Grey McAuley 
The Novice Atalanta..,.
Caroline McCampboll 
Sister Sacristan .... Inez Hazel
The A bless .................. Dorothy Rubenstein
Abbe Filosi .........................................Dean
..........Neal Caldwell
The Puppet Man....................Lawrence Paquin
Beelzebub Satanso........................James Church
The Nursex-y Maid of Heaven will 
be px*esented at the regular Fiiday 
afternoon matinee, and all students 
are invited to attend, if possible.

---------------------------------------------------

r'OR generations Turkish cigarettes 
* have been smoked by the lite of 
every nation on Earth, regardless of 
race, religion or politics.
And no used-to-be-king ever smoked a more 
exquisite Turkish cigarette than Murad.
Sales far exceeding any other high-grade 
T cigarette. /TtF
100% PURE TURKISHthe worlds most
famous tobacco for cigarettes. /jzW&i
J,, Judge for
y our cel f! jK
THE TURKISH CIGARETTE
PAGE TWOTHE TARTANWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 1919.
ty? Sartan
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Activities Board.
Entered in the postoffice of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
This year $1.50
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
5c the copyCanada, $1.7E
Editor-in-Chicf..................................................................................LcRoy E. Eincrich
Phone Hazel 9422
Business Manager ..............................................................................T- W. AllsworthPhone Hazel 9425.
EDITORIALSchool Editors
Managing EditorM. M. C. S............Margaret J. Griifen
L. K. PaquinScience....................I. K. W. Macai pint
Industries..........................J. R. RudisillAssistant Managing EditorsArt..................................T. R. Hinckley
F. I. SmithOther AssistantsC. L. LukeII. C. Haldeman
News EditorR. G. Welsh
C. M. BlackburnL. A. McCardell 
Arthur LubinAssociate News EditorsJ. R. Barrow
J. T. AmesGertrude Baton
W. D. HullMargaret Stolzenbaugh 
. Adele GumbertAthlctic Editor 
G. R. GoodrichOlga Kiefer
Assistant Athlctic EditorBUSINESS STAFF 
D. A. Sillers 
N. E. Fox
Circulation ManagerWm. Obenour
II. G. AtchleyM. I. Cohen
TARTAN OFFICE..........................................................................Room 162, Design
Hours1:00 to 4:00 Wednesdays.
12:00 to 1:00 Thursdays.
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the Man
aging Editor for the make up.All business communications should be sent to the Business Manager. 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported 
at once.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the signature to he withheld if desired.
All news items must be in the student postoffice, Central Building, before 
4:30 P. M. Fridays.
BE THERE TO ROOT.
With the coming of the last and largest game of the season, a little 
reminder might prove helpful. Although Carnegie has never overcome the 
Panther, she has usually carried oil' cheering honors. Doubtless, both are 
always hoped for but only one has been accomplished.
The institution across the hollow has organized cheering more success
fully than ever and it is time that we get ready for the fray or an instance 
like that at Cornell will be repeated.
Mr. Lund of the Pittsburgh Post has donated fifteen hundred mega
phones for the use of Tech rooters at this game. With this additional help 
and a little practice there need be no fear.This opportunity is taken of thanking Mi-. Lund for his kind considera
tion with the promise that all of the megaphones will be heated up well
Be there to use one.----------V.----------
KEEPING THE STAFF INTACT.
Notice is hereby given that the athletic editor, Mr. H. W. Lynn, has 
resigned from his position on the stall. This action was taken by him on 
account of something promised and not received.
It has always been the custom of the Tartan to send the athletic editor 
to the Cornell game. On assumptions the promise was made again this year, 
which, indeed, is appreciation for work done. However, the Student Activi
ties Board voted to secure a man without expense t:o the Board, to write up 
tho game. Can Mr. Lynn he blamed for resigning?
The most difficult position is to keep a stall intact and turning oul 
work, Is it possible after such an instanp.n of encouragement?-....HUH gUIIH: 1.1 .. -u- -in.\j 'j l J. , '
ducod from local papoiS or imaginations. Vv.  urn?
NOTICE.
? An important meeting of the ;j 
Tartan Stafi will be held in 
Room 162, Arts Building on 
H Friday at 4:30. Every member 
must be present if they wish to p 
continue work on the Staff.
EDITOR.
bearing on the reconstruction prob
lem and of the personal responsibility 
which the college student has during 
college and afterwards, for personal 
thrift an dfor its promotion in the 
community, to the end that colleges 
and all higher institutions which in 
the work and save program for the 
bigger and better America.
------Kf----------
ARMISTICE DAY, NOV.
Patriotic community singing at ev
ery meeting in Allegheny county on 
Armistice Day, November 11, is the 
object of plans being worked out by 
Charles S. Wengard, director of com
munity singing of the community ser
vice in Allegheny county. Reports 
of community singing in the county, 
led by community service song lead
ers during the summer and autumn, 
show that more than a quarter of a 
million persons joined in the sing
ing.
Wengard and Joseph L. Garvin, 
representative of the national head
quarters of community service, are co
operating in an effort to have every 
club, society, theatre and institution 
where exercises are held on Armistice 
Day devote a short time to patriotic 
community singing. Song sheets are 
being prepared for free distribution.
STUDENT RECEPTION 
A GREAT SUCCESS
On Thursday evening the First Bap
tist Church held its annual Student 
Reception for Tech and Pitt students. 
Although there were not as many 
there as in some years there was more 
entertainment and more fun. There 
was music in the form of a threepiece orchestra. The orchestra play
ed everything from jazz to classical. 
There were a number of games in 
most of which Pitt came out second. 
There was cheering and singing. The 
eats were fine and there was lots for 
everyone. The ones who stayed at 
home certainly missed it for every 
one there had a jolly time.--------------------
DEPARTMENT SENIORS 
ENTERTAINLASSMEN
On Thursday afternoon at four 
'clock the Seniors of the Household
CALENDAR OF EVENTS.
November 10.Meeting....A. A. Ifi.....H I. M.............................Room 55, Science
November 14.- Dorm Danco ...............................................................................Union
November 16.- Buckeye Club Smoker......................................Room 55, Science
November 21.- Dance--M. M. I). Guild...........................................................Union
November 21 and 22 Div. of Arts, Musical Extravaganza. .Schenley Theatre
November 25- Carnegie Day.............................................................................Cla-isen
November 27-Thanksgiving Day ...........................................................No Classer
Decomber 20 First Day Christmas lleeoss.
January f, 1020 First Day of Winter Quarter.
E
GIVEN IN I I D.
On Thursday afternoon in place of 
the regular gymnasium class Miss 
Smith of the Design School gave a 
number of athletic dances for the 
Juniors of M. M. Other classes were 
invited to witness the performances. 
Miss Smith gave The Bacchante, 
the Hunting Dance, the Chained 
Prisoner. The Chained Prisoner 
was apparently the favorite. The 
girls were very grateful to Miss Smith 
for her generous exhibition.
A Junior and Senior class in es
thetic dancing is soon to be started 
in M. M. The dancing will be taught 
by Miss Spurrier the new instructor 
in physical training. Miss Spurrier 
is quite an expert in such dancing, as 
was shown by her performance at the 
Junior Cabaret.
----------8----------
RADIO CLUB REORGANIZES 
A meeting of lhe Radio Club of 
C. I. T. was held Friday, November 
7, 1919. Professor Work acting as 
faculty adivsor of the Club gave a 
talk telling of the old organization 
that was disbanded at the beginning 
of the war.
Officers were elected and a com
mittee was formecf for the writing of 
a new constitution. The officers 
elected are:
President.............i.........................Hanks
Secretary .............;................Cordeman
Treasurer..................................Andrews
All men in school who are inter
ested in radio but were not at the 
meeting should get in communica
tion with the secretary. He can be 
found in Dorm 6, Room 412, after 
ten-thirty any night.
In honor of the Juniors and Sopho
mores of the same department. The 
tea was one of the most pleasing giv
en this year. Delicious refreshments 
prepared by the girls themselves were 
served. Miss Vera Lehne was hostess 
and Miss Nell Bry poured. Many of 
the faculty members were present.
VITA CLUB ORGANIZED BY AUTOMOBILE STUDENTS
ONE MAN'S VIEWS
ON THE ANNIVERSARY
OF ARMISTICE DAY
Yesterday the world observed the 
first anniversary of Armistice Day.
It will never again be stirred to such 
universay rejoicing over a single 
event as it was on November 11, 1918. 
That celebration 'heeded no formal 
proclamation or extraneous aid; it 
was a spontaneous outburst which 
circled the blobe. It was fondly hoped 
that the day marked the beginning of 
a new era in which wars and rumors 
of war would be forever absent and 
peace and good will would reign on 
earth. But the dream of universa 
peace is still far from realization, and 
good will even among all the victors 
over autocracy is far from being es
tablished. Officially the United States 
is still at war with Germany and Aus
tria. The authority of the Allied and 
Associated Powers is virtually defied 
by Rumania. Law and order have 
fled from Russia and civil war with 
all its horrors exists throughout that 
vast domain. Instead of swords and 
spears being converted into imple
ments of husbandry, apan has just 
approved of a naval program which 
dwaif" : :'thing Jifc^omn<1 by Britan- ' nia in any pre-war year. A revo, 
tioiuiry force in Italy has forcibly 
seized territory in violation of the al
location by the Council of the Powers. 
In the United States the government 
is at grips \vith the forces of red 
anarchy. And so it goes, one year 
after the signing of the armistice.
This continued unrest of the world 
does not mean that we should cease 
striving for the attainment of the 
ideal. It should teach, however, that 
human nature cannot be changed in 
a day, nor can the world be made over
by legislative act or executive edict. 
This fact is recognized even by the 
slanders of the United States Senate 
for its courage in pursuing its con
stitutional duty in connection with 
the peace treaty. They profess to 
believe that the peace of the world 
is being held up, the millennium de
ferred, by delay on the part of the 
United States, and yet in their hearts 
they know this is false. The division 
of the world into national families, 
differing in many vital particulars, 
was not an accident, but the result of 
some inscrutable design. It is as 
much our duty to safeguard the inter
ests of our national family, to define 
 ur real intentions, to declare our un 
del-standing of an agreement in which 
v/e are about to enter, and to limit in 
'rference from the outside, as it is 
for the individual to stand first by his 
I'amily. Even Holy Writ does not re
quire that we love our neighbor bet
ter than ourselves.
We feel that it meant a great deal 
to Tech students as well as other 
students who were then assured that 
',hey would be able to complete the 
education sooner than expecter.-----O-----
AMONG OTHER COLLEGES
In the annual inter-class track meet 
held at Princeton, Tuesday, the Fresh
man Class romped away with the meet 
by a margin of nine points. The order 
of the finishing there was simply the 
opposite from the scholastic finishing 
for the Freshmen were first with 26 
points, the Sophomores second with 
17 points, and the Seniors last with 
6 points.
The end of the daylight saving plan 
is playing havoc with the practice of 
the football teams throughout the 
country. However, various devices 
are being used at the colleges in order 
that the teams may have sufficient 
drill each day. At the Naval Acad
emy electric lights on high poles have 
been installed along the sides of the 
field, while at Rutgers, the Scarlet 
squad is handling a whitewashed pig
skin in order to maintain the late 
practices.
The Yale University Athletic Asso
ciation announces that rights to the 
championship football tickets given 
to the subscribers to the Yale Bowl 
fun, which would have expired in 1923, 
have been extended for two years in 
order to make up for the cancelation 
of the champion games during the 
war.
One of the most remarkable of foot
ball rivalries will be staged at the 
Yale-Princeton game on November 15 
between Mike and Jim Callahan, 
brothers.
Mike is the star center for Prince
ton and Jim is the captain and center 
for the Yale team.
* * *
PennsylvaniaThere is a prom
ising outlook for the swimming team 
this year. Twenty-five Freshmen have 
reported in addition to half a dozen 
veterans. The polo team .also has a 
good supply of material on hand.
fans turned out to witness the strug
gle. This crowd taxed the capacity 
of the stands. A crowd twice that 
size is expected for the game with 
Illinois on November 22.
The new bowl will seat 50,000 and 
several thousand more can be furnish
ed with standing room.
The .designers claim that the State 
bowl will have more advantages than 
the Yale or Harvard stadium, which 
are at present the best in the country.
The land surrounding the stadium 
proper will be utilized for tennis 
courts, baseball diamonds, soccer 
fields, etc. One hundred tennis courts 
will be laid out, while there will be 
20 baseball diamonds. There will al
so be four football fields, outside of 
the one within the stadium. Much at
tention has been paid to parking fa
cilities, and there will be places for 
several thousand machines around the 
bowl.
A new gymnasium and armory will 
be constructed adjacent to the ath
letic stadium, the present gymnamium 
being entirely inadequate for the num
ber of men taking physical exercise. 
There are 1,800 freshmen taking the 
gymnasium course, while locker room 
is provided for only 1,000.* * *
Gettysburg  The Active Service 
Mens Club has been organized with 
an initial membership of twenty-four. 
All students who saw active service 
overseas, in the navy, or in the can
tonments of this country, are eligible 
for membership and it is expected 
that many new members will be en
rolled at subsequent meetings.
Kansas State  Plans are being 
made for a big smoker which has for 
its object the opening of a campaign 
for membership in the local post of 
the American Legion. The organiza
tion is already in existence, but more 
members are desired.* * *
PennsylvaniaPenn State does not 
appear on the basketball schedule as 
it now stands. However, games may 
be added later to the eighteen con
ests upon the roster in its present 
form, which must be aproved by rep
resentatives of the four other col
leges in the Intercollegiate League 
before the season opens.
^nBiniiiramifinnuiiuiiLiiniiifiiiniBinKiiinurinsnjHiiinrtiHiaiiiBiiHiimiiiiiffiimii'.jnfiic^m LostA small silver mesh-bag J 1 on Woodlawn Ave. or Forbes f 
g St. between Woodlawn and H j Morewood, last Wednesday af- j jj ternoon. Finder please return |j 
| to Miss Moore, matron of Mar- M 
0 garet Morrison.= il
SAVE TIMEby having your shoes 
repaired while you wait.
NEWMAN- HARRIS
of Pittsburgh 
FINE SHOE REPAIRING
Special facilities for repairing 
ladies shoes.
3811 Fifth Ave., Corner Bouquet St.
The Mellon National Bank is 
one of the most thoroughly 
organized, strongest financial 
institutions on the country.
It is in a position to handle 
any account, large or small, 
with care and competency.
Pittsburgh, Pa.
DELICIOUS CAKES
------for------
SOCIAL AFFAIRS
THE HALLER BAKERY
3610 FORBES STREET 
IROQUOIS BLOCK
iiiiiijii.'iiiiiiiiiiiuiiiciiiniiiiioiiiiiaDEi
SKIB0 INN
EATS
Cigars and Candy
BollSclionloy 389
MISS OLEARY
(Formerly with .T. B. 1. Shuinnn)
CLEANINGREPAIRING 
and Mons Clotlios, Carpots
DRY 
LftdiosRugs, Portiers 
Work Gimrnntecd mid Turned Out on Short Notice.
Will call for all prossing: and cleaning at Frat Houses.
YOU DANCE?
LehighThe first attempt to or:anizo tlicu fiee and .Mandolin Clubs since they became'..inactive * 
was made Saturday afternoon wne7i 
tryouts for both societies were held 
in Drown Hall.
DANCING LESSONS
JACQUES 
CRAIG AND FORBES
CLASS AND PRIVATE
\ ir
&
Out at Ohio State University a new 
stadium with a seating capacity of 
50,000 persons is being planned. It is 
to be erected during the next year 
and, together will be a mile long and 
half a mile wide.
The need for a new football field 
was felt at the contest between Ohio 
State and Ohio Wesleyan, when 7,000
BATTERY
Exide"
SERVICE
IRON CITY ELECTRIC CO.
436 SEVENTH AVE. 
All Kinds of Batteries 
Repaired and Recharged
PROPOSED PLAN OF ELECTIVE EDUCATION
Durili}? tho wook of November 10th to ,15th Mr. Hazel will distribute to 
the Indents of tho school, a new plan of elective physical education especially 
designed for those who do not take part in varsity competitions. If is hoped 
that the students will read this pamphlet carefully and will take an iteresl 
in Mr. Hazels voluntary plan. The aim of the Physical Kdueatlon Depart
ment is to have as many people as possible taking regular exercises and If 
tills voluntary scheme, in which a goal is given tho students to strive for, is 
taken up by a large number of the student body, a great deal of good will 
come of it.
Dates of trials will be publishedin the Tartan. Any definite information 
may be obtained at any time by any student from Mr. Hazel.
FRANK P. DAY.
THRIFT AS A COLLEGE
STUDENT'S PROBLEM
The war demanded that every 
American save money and students in 
educational institutions were not ex
pected. The Liberty Bond and War 
Savings Campaign showed that even 
the college student who is self-sup
porting could set aside a small margin 
for saving and investment. After
war economic conditions are demand
ing a continuance of war economies, 
and universal saving and safe invest
ment on the part of all our people. 
Shall the college student have a part 
in this after-war program? At first 
thought one would say that it is in
expedient for the college student to 
set aside part of his current money for 
savings but a closer examination of 
the students owTi best interests, re
garded from the long-time point of 
view, and of his fundamental relatio 
to the national economic crisis thru 
which we are now going, has lead 
thoughtful advisers of the Treasury 
Departments Savings Division to 
urge that the present opportunity for 
rogular saving and investment in gov
ernment: securities he put before the 
college students of tho country, as was 
tho need for war savings.
The Treasury Department, is oliering the 25c Thrift Stamp, $5 War 
Savings Stamp and the .$100 and 
$1,000 Treasury Savings Certificates, 
as a means of popular saving. It is 
also urging the continued purchase of 
Liberty Bonds now held by banks as 
a means of reducing the expanded 
credit which is partly responsible for 
constantly increasing prices.
College ctudents are urged to par
ticipate in Government Savings pri
marily because the country needs a 
rapid increase in i\s savings fund and 
because the practice of regular sav
ing carries personal economic bene
fits so fundamental and lasting that 
college students as future leaders will 
wish to share in this movement.
Many a college student has earned 
and saved money before going to col
lege and during his four years or more
of academic and professional training; 
has got entirely out of his habits of 
thrift and so starts his business or 
professional career heavily handicap
ped by the weight of unthrifty stand
ards taken on during college life. The 
college student who practices thrift 
gets a self-discipline that like faith 
will move mountains.
The Treasury Department proposes 
the following program:
That students, as a matter of na
tional service as well as personal ad
vantage, work during term time when 
opportunity affords, and during part 
at least of vacations.
That every college student should 
save a minimum of a dollar a week 
during the entire college course.
That these savings should be funded 
as the nucleus for the start-in-life 
fund for use after graduation.
That these savings he invested safely in government savings securities.
That the student on receiving an 
allowance from home set aside, as a 
first charge on this allowance his 
weekly savings.
 That the student who is working his 
way through college and paying his 
own expenses i:i whole or in part, 
should set aside regularly a sum 'or 
savings even if if he so little a; 25c 
a week, the cost of a U. S. Thrift Stamp.
That students plan their perso ml 
expenditures with a personal budge! 
now recognized a -. tho most, prae'.iea'1 
instrument for promoting wise ex
penditure in government, in buaincs 
and in personal finance.
That students discuss in doba'ing 
clubs, fraternity clubs and other or
ganizations, the relation of perso :,v 
thrift to business efficiency c.nrl . u  
cess in life, and the relation of indivi 1 
ual savings to the countrys capital 
fund, and to present economic problems.
That student organizations shoud 
as a national after-war service or
ganize a public discussion of the 
economic problems related to thrift, 
I savings and investment, seeking parI ticularly a statement of their practical
On October the 20th the VITA Club
was organized by tho men who are 
taking the automobile course. The 
name was derived from the first let
ters of four important parts of an 
automobile. It is pronounced Vyta.
The purpose of the club is to pro
mote a better acquaintance among the 
men taking the auto course, enter
tainment and to give us a chance to 
study the automobile theory more 
thoroughly.
Dean Morris, and Mr. Roy Arbrose 
have been made honorary members. 
The election of officers resulted as 
follows: President, Wallace Frayer;
vice president, Aaron Sandler; secre
tary, Maxwell Johnston, and treasur
er, J. A. Williams.
We feel that the club will be a 
great help to the auto wreckers and 
that the prospects for the future are 
very bright indeed.-----$-----
MECHANICSATTENTION 1
The Carnegie Mechanical Engineer
ing Society will hold its second meet
ing of the year at eight oclock to
morrow night in Room 105, Ma'hinery Hall.
The officers of the society have 
made a special effort to procure the 
best speakers possible for the meeting 
this year, for it is desired to make the 
meeting not only interesting but high
ly instructive. There will be no dry 
eetures, but intimate talks that will 
;ive the members a new viewpoint on 
i number of representative industries 
- -thi' viewpoint of men who have 
been been responsibly associated with 
.hese industries for a number of 
,'enrs.
Tomorrow night's speaker will be 
"Ir,. Maurice R, ScharfffT of the Mor
ris- Knowles Company. Mr. Scharff 
served with the A. 10. F. for two years 
as a captain in the Pump Division of 
the Water Supply. He is now Prin 'pal Assistant to the engineer with 
'1 orris-Knowlos. and he has promised 
an interesting talk for the society. All 
mechanicals, especially Sophomores, 
are urged to be on hand, whether they 
are members of C. M. E. SS. or not. 
I A cordial invitation is also extended 
to all others interested. Smokes.. --^------
n M. D. GUILD DANCE
j O i Friday evening, November 21, 
.'ho Mar ;aret Morrison Guild is giv v a dance in the Union at 8:30. The 
I tvd is the one charitable institution 
I m ?-T. r\ and is giving the dance to 
i ohmin funds to carry on its work. 
*,:ckots will be sold in M. M. all this 
i  '< k. Tlu i-' is going to be fine music 
! Bonny Levant is going to play
i and everyone knows what that means.

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 1919.THE TARTANPAGE THREE
5faj2T3/3isisnsiSfSMSiBiBisnfsn2fC3c!rciJtsi
P. LUDEBUEHL ANO SON
PENN AND ^'KSTOWN 
AVENUES
$8.50 to $15.50
CUT DOWN YOUR SHOE 
EXPENSE by buying better 
_ shoes. You will find them far 
^ cheaper to wear than shoes 
which are not so high in quality.
Our new models for FALL and 
WINTER are now in, and they 
are full of snapjust suitable 
for the college man.
ARTS PLEBES ARE GIVEN 
DOCKING BY SOPHOMORES
Engineers Equipment, Instru
ments of Precision, Blue Print 
and Brown Print Papers and 
Cloths.
B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
126 SIXTH STREET
layayuyuyuyuyuyuyuyuyuyuyuyas
If your fountain pen is in need of 
repairs, if you need a new, satisfactory 
pen or eversharp pencil, stationery, 
dance programs, favors, special felt 
goods or Tech recognition pins, call 
at SINGER PEN & GIFT SHOP in 
Jenkins Arcade.Adv.
Oakland Methodist Episcopal 
Church and Community House.
Forbes and Boquet Streets. 
Room Directory, Recreation Room, 
Reading Room.
Dont miss the Sunday Open House, 
4:307:30 P. M.
Supper at 6:00  20 cents. 
Snappy Address  G:45-7:15 
TpiJts Cordially Welcomed.
a voice errThird United 
Presbyterian Church
DR. HUGH B. SPEER, Pastor 
Shady and Northumberland Avenues 
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M. and 8:00 P. M.Young Peoples Service, 7:00 P. M. Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages. A cordial welcome to all.
BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN 
CHURCH
X Bellefield and Fifth Avenues
Robert MacGowan, 
Minister.
D. D.,
Preaching Services 11 and 8.
Sunday school at 10.
Christian Endeavor at 7.
We want Uie Tech boys to at
tend our services and learn to 
know us as the congregation of 
Friendly People. A hearty 
welcome awaits you.
YOUNG MAN!
COME TO THE
YOKE FELLOWS 
CLASS
EVERY SUNDAY AT 10:00 A. M.
FIRST BAPTIST CHURCH
BELLFIELD AND BAYARD STS. 
REV. F. T. GALPIN, Teacher. 
OTHER SERVICES 
Friendly Class (Young Women)
10:00 A. M.
Morning Services ............11:00 A. M.
B. Y. P. U...........*............... 7:00 P. M.
Evening Services.............. 7:45 P. M.
COME AND BRING A FRIEND
That terrible howling you heard 
coming from the Arts building last 
week was not a glee club rehearsal 
or a murder. It was merely the sophs 
going on another rampage at the ex
pense of a couple of unruly plebes. 
The news of the impending enter
tainment had evidently been spread 
about, for a huge crowd including 
many girls crowded into the drafting 
room to partake of the festivities.
The sophs who acted as hosts to the 
miscreants did themselves proud, and 
the plebes will no doubt remember 
for some time to come the pleasures 
of the afternoon. The Arts sophs are 
determined that plebe regulations 
shall be carried out, and the wear and 
tear on the drafting room sink is get
ting to be something fierce.
TAUBEPILACO NSDM
BANQUEUT SCHENLEY
The big day in Carnegie Tech ac
tivity takes place annually after the 
Pitt-Tech game at Forbes Field. This 
year Pitt plays Tech at Forbes Field, 
Saturday, November 22 and immedi
ately after, a banquet is given at the 
Schenley Hotel under the auspices of 
the Varsity Clan. The organization 
is composed of men who have made 
their letters in the various sports of 
Carnegie Tech. Among the guests 
will be former captains and managers 
of the various teams, the players and 
prominent members of the faculty.
Carnegie Tech letter men will as
semble from all parts of the country 
and everything necessary in the way 
of refreshments, entertainers and 
speakers will contribute to make this 
day the biggest-day in the history of 
Tech. The affairs of this Varsity 
Clan banquet are in the hands of Wm. 
Finkel, chairman; H. J. McCorkel 
and Wm. Moorehead.
--------------------
SCIENCE SOPHS HOLD
BANQUET; PROFESSORS 
HONOR GUESTS;
PLEBE PRESIDENT PRISONER
In the Norse room of the Fort Pitt 
Hotel on Monday night, about tables 
laden with the choicest of viands, the 
air joyous with music and singing, sat 
the Carnegie Tech sophomores, all 
dressed in the Sunday best, in honor 
of their annual class banquet.
Outside the hotel was gathered a 
howling mob of plebes, their green 
hats, flannel shirts and uncreased 
trousers forming a glaring contrast 
to the immaculate attire of the sophs. 
With loud and raucous cries they 
threatened bodily injury and vengeane upon the sedate group in the 
Norse room. Their frantic efforts to 
enter the hotel were flustrated time 
and again by two husky cops and sev
eral house detectives.
The trouble began Monday after
noon when the Sophs lured Donald 
Templeton of Bayonne, N. J., the 
plebe president, from a classroom and 
placed him in durance vile in room 
108 at the hotel. After the kidnaping 
the plebes started a hue and cry after 
their lost leader. With the determin
ation of a bunch of Arsene Lupins 
they kept on the trail, finally discov
ering he was at the hotel. From pool
rooms, study hall and restaurants they 
were summoned to the Fort Pitt to 
rescue their presidentor be pinch
ed in the attempt.
As soon as the Sophs gathered in 
the Norse Room the plebes began 
their efforts to rescue their leader. 
Ten or 20 husky plebes made their 
way to room 108. They knocked. No 
answer. One looked through the tran
som. The room was empty.
In the meantime Templeton was 
making the best of a bad bargain. 
His bonds had been removed, and he 
was occupying a conspicuous place at 
one of the tables in the Norse room, 
forgetting his woes in chicken and 
ice cream. When asked by The Tar
tan reporter how he liked being kid
naped he said that so many, things had 
happened to him that he was not able 
to gather his impressions of the 
events. Meanwhile, he said, he was 
too busy writing his autograph on 
progx-ams for souvenir-loving sophs 
to talk very much.
Somehow, in spite of the fact that 
he seemed to be enjoying the meal, 
Templeton looked out of place. Where 
the others were immaculately dressed, 
his collar showed signs of consider
able wear, he needed a shave, and the
state of his clothes indicated his kid
napping was not accomplished with
out a considerable struggle. In fact 
one of the sophs admitted that it re
quired eight husky men to bring him 
to the banquet.
The banquet was held in comparative peace, except for the threats 
which occasionally floated down the 
stairs. The presence at the door of 
several members of the citys strong 
arm squad prevented the plebes from 
invading the room. Gradually the 
group outside melted away, to wreak 
vengeance upon solitary sophs who 
did not attend the banquet.
Addresses were made at the ban
quet by Dean Mott, Dean Tarbell, 
Prof. Trinks, Prof. Hower, Dr. Marks 
and Coaches Steffen and Hazel. The 
soph president, G. W. Curtis, was 
toastmaster. FI. D. Skyrm, R. L. Ste
venson, H. H. Wade and J. E. Cun
ningham, other class officers, made 
brief speeches. G. D. Martin, E. R. 
Kine, F. H. Martell, F. H. Rheinhart 
and C. J. SchumacheI, the committee 
in chaige, received numerous compli
ments on the success of the affair.
Nobody seemed to mind the plebe 
threats, so good were the speeches 
and the songs. The greatest attrac
tion, however, was Donald Templeton. 
He was the star of the evening. The 
only person who competed with him 
for honors was the girl who dancedshe received close attention and lots 
of applause.
AUTUMN DANCE HELD BY WOODLAWN HALL
TECH ACTRESS APPEARS (?)
ON FIFTH AVENUE
ASCENSION EPISCOPAL CHURCH 
Ellsworth Avenue and Neville Street 
DR. WYATT BROWN, Rector 
DR. ROSS R. CALVIN, Assistant.
Sunday Services, 8:00 A. M., 11:00 
A. M. and 8:00 P. M.
College Mens Bible Class at 10:00, 
h d by Dr. Calvin.
All Students Genuinely Welcome.
Grace Church
(Reformed)
BAYARD and DITHRIDGE STREET8 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister. 
SERVICES:
Sunday School9:45 A. M.
Morning Worship11 A. M. 
Christian Endeavor7 P. M. 
Popular Evening Services at 7:45. 
Sermons for Head and Heart. 
Hearty Welcome for All.
ST. PAULS CATHEDRAL Fifth Ave. and Craig St.
Masses: 6:30, 8:00, 9:00, 10:00 and
11:00 A. M. ou Sundays and Holy 
Days.Vesuers on Sundays at 7:30 P. M. 
Pew|68. Middle Aisle, for Tech Stu
dents.
?saerW5T
Woodlawn Hall was attractively 
decorated in autumn leaves, cornstalks and pumpkins for the masque
rade dance held Saturday evening, 
November the first. The girls wore 
very clever black and white pien*ette 
suits decorated with cats and witches. 
There were five favor dances for 
which balloons, musical pipes, rattlers, 
jumping jacks and horns were the fa
vors. A lunch of cider, apples, dough
nuts and pumpkin pie was served. 
The music furnished by Beni Levant 
was especially good. The chaperons 
were Miss English, Miss Hatch and 
Miss Caldwell.. The committee in 
charge was Mary Litz, Amelia Schade 
and Ruth Scott.----------0----------
RECEPTION FOR STUDENTS 
The Newman Club, comprised of all 
Catholic students in institutions of 
higher learning in Pittsburgh held a 
reception in the gymnasium of the 
Cathedral High School, Friday eve
ning. Over a hundred students at
tended the reception. This was the 
first social function of the year and 
was held for the purpose of allowing 
the members to become better ac
quainted with one another. Hal
loween refreshments were served. 
The evening was a great success and 
promised well for the success of fu
ture events. A dance in the Knights 
of Columbus Hall about Thanksgiv
ing is being planned. All Catholic 
stucleulS'who fiuVG not yet'joined the 
club will have an opportunity of doing 
so at the ixext regular me'eting held 
the last Suxxday of November in the 
Cathedral High School, Craig Street.----------a----------
ANOTHER JAZZ Band. 
Following the suggestion made by 
J. W. Batman at a recent meeting of 
the Student Assembly a new organi
zation has been formed among the 
students of the Division of Industries. 
It is that which we will know as the 
Assembly Jazz Band. Hoffberger was 
selected as director and also officiates 
at the piano. He has gathered some 
fourteen pieces togcthex- and their 
selections are eixjoyed at the meeting. 
On the violin are Schmertz, Wally, 
Funk, Gross and Jones. Hamm picks 
the banjo with Marsteller as his side 
partner on the mandolin. Hawk plays 
the trombone with Hover, Stevenson 
and Weir on cornets, Carrier, the flute 
and Floyd oix the drums.
Most actors and actresses consider 
that they have made good when 
they have succeeded in having their 
names appear over theatx*e entrances. 
Even though it is not on Broadway, 
but in such a city as Pittsburgh, this 
mark of fame and favor seems to 
satisfy most of our all too exacting 
Thespians.
But not so one of the young ladies 
in the School of Drama! We all know 
that she deserves the electric display 
so commonshe has done some won
derful work during her stay at Tech, 
and now as a Post Graduate student 
is doing even more. She is the star of 
the production, The Nursery Maid 
of Heaven which is being played 
this week, but it is not in this charac
ter that she appeal's on Fifth Avenue. 
It is in the costume of one of her for
mer successes, that of Lydia Lan
guish in The Rival; that her pho
tograph, beautifully reproduced, ap
pears in a prominent position before 
an entrance iix the downtown district 
on Fifth.
And all this without even a press 
agent! The fact that the above-men
tioned photo is placed where it is as 
an advertisenxent for the photographer need not make any differenceiix 
fact it ought only to impress us the 
more with the attractiveness of, 
well, we all know her, why get personal?
WELL KNOWN CARNEGIE 
TECH MAN I
MHmHMMMaMMMMmiMill***auI a
GLEE CLUB 
SPECIAL REHEARSAL
WEDNESDAY 
6:30 P. M.
EXHIBITION ROOM 
ARTS SCHOOL
wm
TECH CROSS COUNTRY RUNNERS PUT UP HARD 
FIGHT WITH CORNELL
The Carnegie Tech Cross Country Team was defeated last Saturday 
by the strong Cornell Team, the final score being Cornell 28Tech 77. Our 
team entered with the same old fight and determination but could not over
come the pace set by their superior runners. The course was miles long 
and vei*y fast. Marshall Gare, who was recently elected Captain of Cross 
Countx-y, was the main stay for Tech and showed much improvement on 
the run. The Plebes were represented by Cavett, Miller, Greenlaw and 
Nutting and all these men showed exceptional ability for new men. Coach 
Hazel expects to develop these runners and is confident that they will be 
hard to defeat next year. Track Captain Schmidt ran the entire course with 
a bad ankle and must be given much ex-edit for his unflinching determination. 
McDex*mott, Campbell and Dickinson were the stars for Cox-nell and they 
finished in splendid fox-m.
The many friends and admirers of 
E. F. Kelly, better known to Car
negie Tech men as Red and Wild 
West, will be pleased to learn of his 
recent marriage. Red, who is now 
living in New Haven, Conn., will be 
remembered by the older men oix the 
campus as the best guard who ever 
wore the tax-tan spangles into battle. 
Kelly was a varsity football man in 
14, 15, and 16, being a conspicuous 
performer on the famous 1916 eleven.----------O----------
PLAID GRIDDERS VANQUISHED 
BY CORNELL ELEVEN 
(Continued from page 1.)
10 on another run. Davies made an
other at right end. Cox-nell was pen
alized 15 yards for holding. Shiverick 
lost a yard when he stumbled. Shiv
erick punted to Fletcher on Techs 
35-yard line. Marshall made two at 
left end. Loomis gained another 
through center. Fletcher gained an
other. With the ball on Techs 42- 
yard line. Shiverick ran around left 
end for five and then seven more, put
ting the ball on Techs 25-yard line. 
Shiverick passed to Colvin for a fiveyard gain. Shiverick kicked a field 
goal from Techs 25-yard line.
Fourth Quarter.
Livingston intercepted a forward 
and ran for a 10-yard gain. Hasbrook, 
subbing for MacKenzie, gained five 
at left end. Shivericks forward went 
wild. Shiverick failed on an attempt
ed field goal from the 38-yard line. 
On a fake kick Loomis gained one at 
center. Fletcher skirted right end for 
12 yards. Moon failed another for
ward. He failed another, the ball 
bounding through four Red players' 
hands and falling to the ground. Moon 
punted to Shiverick on the Cornell 40- 
yard line. Darting through numer
ous holes, the Red captain ran it back 
44 yards. Leckler substituted for 
Livingston. Leckler gained five at 
right tackle. Shiverick made three 
more at center. Davies gained the 
necessary two on Techs four-yard 
line. Shiverick failed to gain, the 
Plaid piling up in front of him. Shiv
erick made one, with three to go to 
the goal. Davies gained about three 
inches. Techs ball on their own 
three -yard line. Marshall made three 
at center. Marshall failed at center. 
Loomis made one at center. Moon 
punted out of bounds on the Reds 
40-yard line. Hasbrook made three 
at left tackle. Shiverick forwarded to 
Miller. The ball going back. Miller 
not allowed to receive pass. Shiverick 
failed a forward pass. Shiverick fail
ed a drop, Fletcher catching it. It 
was placed on the Tech 20-yard line. 
Bi-unwasser substituting for Baldwin. 
Brunwasser made one at centex-.
Shiverick kicked to Max-shall on 
Techs .5-yard line. The Plaid skip
per retux-ned it 10 yards as the game 
ended.
Final score: Cox-nell 20, Tech 0.
Cornell20
..L. E................ Colvin
..L. T................ Knaus
..L. G.......... Pendleton
...C................... Hox-rell
..R. E................... Miller
A TTENTION !!
F orward 
March 
To Club Room 
Dorm No. I
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 13TH
SHOW OPENS 11 A. M.
SMOKES AND A GOOD TIME
Main Bout:
PRELIMS,
CLEVER NEW STYLES FOR YOUNG MEN 
Direct from the Worlds Greatest Fashion 
Center, 5-7-9 Union Square,
New York City.
Specially selected for this STYLE SHOW.
Our chain-store system affords worth-while savings. 
Visit our store nearest you and be convinced. Cor
rect fit and satisfaction guaranteed.
OUR OWN RETAIL STORES AT
AKRON. Ohio....................124 S. Main St.
CLEVELAND, O., 503-505 Prospect Ave.
MILWAUKEE, Wis..............192 Third St.PITTSBURGH, Pa.............. 507 Market St.
PITTSBURGH, Pa.. .209-11 Smith field St.
PITTSBURGH, Pa..........932 Liberty Ave.
We will open stores at Scranton,
READING, Pa.........................751 Penn St.
SCHENECTADY, N. Y 302-801 State St.
SYRACUSE, NY.............138 S. Salina St.TERRE HAUTE, Ind.. .110 Wabash Ave.
WILKES-BARRE, Pa...........(>(> S. Main St.
YOUNGSTOWN, 0 107-9 W. Federal St. 
Pa., and Trenton, N. J., early in 1920.
Fraternity Notes
The results
Name Time Place
McDermott.....................................28:59 1
Campbell .........................................29:17 2
Dickinson ........................................29:34 3
Wenz .................................................29-54-2 4
Stanton ...........................................30-28 5
King .................................................30:34 6
Lentz ................................................30:59 7
Gare..................................................31:11 8
Reyna .................................................31:14 9
Ayars................................................31:19 10
Miller................................................31-30 11
Fernschild ......................................31:36 12
Duryea .............................................31:48 13
Sprong ............................................31:59 14
McNitt.............................................32:07 15
Cavette.............................................32:07 16
Greenlaw ........................................32:20 17
Densmore .......................................32:42 18
Houston ..........................................32:50 19
Hillar ..............................................33:17 20
Nutting ...........................................35:42 21Schmidt...........................................37:^r- 22
POINTS. 
Carnegie Tech Cornell
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
8
0
0
9 
0 
0 
0 
0
10 
11 
0 
0 
12
13
14
The first seven* men of the Cornell Team counted in the 
maining men automatically dropping out of the scoring.
28 
the reTech0 
Witner ....
Williams ..
Flannery . .-
Irwin .........
Roberts ...
Moon ..................R. T................. Sutton
Godden ...............R. E................ Cuneen
Levy.....................Q............... Shivex-ick
Marshall.............L. E.........MacKenzie
Baldwin .............R. H......... Livingston
Loomis ..................F.................... Davies
Score by periods:
Cornell .........................7 3 7 320
Tech ..............................0 0 0 00
Substitutions  Tech, Carey for
Flannei-y, Curtis for Witner, Fletcher 
for Levy, Hayes for Godden, Witner 
for Curtis, Bi-unwasser for Baldwin, 
Flannery for Moon; Cornell, Tyler 
for Pendleton, Hoff for Colvin, Col
vin for Hoff; Hasbrook for MacKen
zie, Taylbr for Knaus, Wilson for Cu 
neen, Strauss for Taylor, Leckler for 
Livingston, Strowbridge for Horrcll, 
Finn for Wilson, McLean for Miller, 
Craid for Davies, Dodge for Taylor, 
B. Trowdbridge for Dodge. Touch
downsShiverick 2. Goals from 
touchdownsShiverick 2. Field goals 
Shiverick 2. OfficialsReferee, V. 
A. Schwartz of Brown; umpire, J. J. 
Houllehan of Boston A. A. Head 
linesman, A. W. Risey of Colgate. 
Time of periods12 minutes. Attend
ance8,000.
^jii!8iiiiiniiiiiiiiRiHuiiui!m!niiiiiiiK!rdiiiHiiiiH;flii!n]iiiiiuii!iBniii[iiHiiiiiinH]iii!iinni(i!i^
ALPHA KAPPA PSI 
The Alpha Kappi Psi fraternity en
tertained their pledges at luncheon 
Wednesday, November 5in tho Rose 
Room at McCreorys  Covers wore 
laid for 25 guests and ovorybody had 
a very good time. Several alumni at
tended.
----------W-----
TAU GAMMA PHI
Friday evening another smoker was 
held at the fraternity house. A good 
number enjoyed our hospitality. 
Among other features of the evenings 
entertainment was a pugilistic bout 
between Kid Razz of Massachusetts 
and Fighting Monty of Connecticut. 
Referee Lind announced the bout a 
draw, although the audience did not 
altogether agree with him on the num
ber of points. Cider and pretzels in 
abundance served to renew the spirits 
of the combatants, and the rest of 
the party were not slow in accepting 
their invitation to partake of such seaonable refreshments. The remainder 
of the evening was spent in song and 
sociable chats. Evci-y one departed 
with a smile of satisfaction.
OPHELEUM
^llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
C. VI. E.
MEETING
105 Machinery Hall
Good Speccli Good SmokesGood Time
OPEN DAY AND NIGHT
EAT AT THE
PARK 411-R
SAVOY RESTAURANT
SPECIAL STUDENTS LUNCH
3807 FIFTH AVE.
HELLO, BILL, MEET ME AT THE
OAKLAND KITCHEN
116 OAKLAND AVENUE
filili
LostA pocketbook with three 
keys bound toi outside by 
rubber band. weys were valu
able. Finder please return to 
Miss Moore, matron of Mar
garet Morrison. I
It is the pleasure of the Opheleum 
Fraternity to announce the pledging 
of another honorary member who is 
Dr. William L. Marks. Doc is a well 
known figure in the student life of 
Tech and not so long ago was AllAmerican football center.
The new home of the fraternity is 
located at 615 Clyde Street, and will 
be in complete readiness before the 
end of the month.
The fraternity also announces the 
pledging of the following men; Chas. 
P. Richai-dson, Science 23 of Pottstown, Pa.; Stuart P. Smith, Industries 
23 of Chicago, 111., G. M. Murphy, 
Industries 23 of Salem, O., and Paul 
Allen, Industries 23 of Washington, 
Pa.Many of the Brothers made the 
tx-ip to Cox-nell with the football team 
and were entertained at various fra
ternity houses dux-ing their stay at 
Ithacia. Enx-oute to Pittsburgh, Bro. 
W. G. Pennypacker entertained at his 
home in Buffalo over Sunday.----------L
GRAPHICA CARD CAMPAIGN.
The Graphica Christmas Card Cam
paign is progressing rapidly. Agents 
are reporting good sales and the so
ciety expects that this years cam
paign will be one of the largest ever 
pulled off on the campus. Last Wed
nesday the Graphica distributed 2,500 
Event Calendars at the various as
semblies. It is hoped that they might 
come in handy. A second memoran
dum will be distributed next Wed 
nesday for the following two weeks 
and any society or club wishing to 
publish their events in this folder are 
asked to send the copy, event, time 
and place to the Xmas Card Commit
tee, Department of Pointing, by Monday the 17th. Leave\at postoffice in 
inter-school mail or in the Depart
ment.
..........................................mil......mi....
OAKLAND HARDWARE COMPANY 
Pocket Knives Mazda Lamps
3606 FORBES STREET
AL LA PLACE
Formerly of William Penn and Fort Pitt Hotel 
I AM SERVING
Clean, Wholesome and Home Cooked Dinner for 35c -------------At-------------
STANDARD
3621 FIFTH AVENUERESTAURANT
NEAR ATWOOD STREET
OAKLAND SAVINGS & TRUST COMPANY
Member Federal Reserve System 
Capital --- $200,000.00 
Surplus and Undivided
Profits - - $260,000.90 
Deposits, Over - $4,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
!TECH BARBER SHOP I
NEAREST TO TECH
Cor. Craig and Forbes 
FRED FARGEL, Proprietor.
Nearest and Best Laundry W 
Agcncy.
mnnmwmmmmmmmmmmmmmt
OU EXPRESS AND  
TRANSFER COMPANY
Bell Phonca 678 &. 9169 Schenley 
P.  A. 1092-R 
229 ATWOOD 8TREET 
PITT8BURGH, PA. 
Houoehold Qoodo Moved, Stored, 
Packod and 8hlppeid.
THE PLACE WHERE
STUDENTS
TAKE THEIR SHOES
fiellefieltl 
Shoe Repairing Co.
Across from the Library

---------------------------------------------------

aff-troar-roundsoft drink
Fellowshipin college or 
out of itflourishes best 
with good food and whole
some drink. Ice-cold 
Bevounexcelled among 
beverages in purity and 
healthfulnessis most 
satisfying as a drink by 
itself or a relish with 
food that makes a hap
pier repast.
ANHEUSER-BUSCH, ST. LOUIS
It must be 
Ice (Sold
PAGE FOURTHE TARTANWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 1919.
WRIG1ET5
THE CAMPUS ANVIL
c a package
before the war
c a package
during the war
c a package
NOW
THE FLAVOR LASTS 
SO DOES THE PRICE!
STUDENTS WE I .COME 
Fred Suddabys Cafeteria
BUREAU OF MINES BUILDING
11 A. M. to 2 P. M. Every School Day
(TREAT EATS AT
TiXTE efiTOlNXWV T TTTtfr<TT_
i'-OitBES AND CRAIG STREETS
PKEI) SIJDDABY, Proprietor
And the farmer drove another 
load away."
The High Price of Kicks.
She had her boot on when Hho fell 
How did nhe get that way 
One has to be a rich guy now 
To die like that today.* * *
Lit PlebeHear about the explosion 
down at GoecklerH house last 
night? Blew both he and his wife 
right out through the roof.
2nd Plebe  Hot clog! Anybody
killed?
IhL PlebeNo, quieted a lot of 
neighbor though. First time he 
and his wife have been out together 
in ten years.* * 
Aint it the Truth.
That every time you meet the Queen 
of the Campus youre two days 
overdue at the barber's.
That the Maggie Murph you had to 
dinner at the William Penn always 
meets you in Skibo the next noon 
eating coffee and sinkers.
That every time you get on a street 
car the most glorious damsel is al
ways getting off.
That every morning after when youre 
wondering whether it was legend 
dynamite or paris green, the gov
ernor always drops in to see how 
youre getting along.
That the stuff you forget to look up 
is always what they ask in a quiz. 
Now ain't it the truth?* * *
With a couple more ladders on the 
job in the splash with Allegheny the 
management could have staged a fish 
fry instead of the dance.* # >t<
How about this, Red?
Martin (reading football results in 
the Union) Loomis smashes thru 
center for three yards; Godden knock
ed sensible at right end.? * *
Now is the time to shock the corn 
It is the poets wheeze.
But we must glean our cost from hock 
And can our Beevy Deez.* * *
We understand they took 19 foot
ball men and 20 band men to Cornell. 
What was it anyway, a football game I 
or a band concert?* * +
Everytime we skid down the shoot 
into Science Building these wet morn
ings were reminder that itll probably 
be turned the other way 'long about 
mid-years.* * *
Weekly Health Hint: Football fans, 
dont forget to bring your own oars.* *  H'
A Junior jolly and tough 
Was mixing some chemical stuff 
lie poured some in a vial 
And after a while 
They found his front teeth and 
a cull.Quill.+ * *
A plebe once developed a spree 
By drinking condensed 1'. N. T. 
ieT wnen  staggering nome 
He slipped on a stone 
Services Sunday at three.
Why Profs Die Young. 
Student: (Sat. eve. calling newspa
per office) Have you got the Harvard 
Princeton score yet?
Voice over phone: Yes, Just come 
in, 10-10.
Student: Fine! Whos favor?
What's IC. E. V.? 
know? Well 
"yell and further <
Does the Ttartnn 
Watch for their 
etalls next week!
'Phc Beanery 
A crash 
A clatter,
A greasy Splatter, 
Shadow 
Soup 
Crackers 
Beans,
A Solution of 
Milk
That is truly a bilk, 
Cake,
A disgrace to cuisine.
Bread 
Thats bone dry 
As is often the 
Pie,
Lamb chops 
(They blush at their name) 
Then 
Fifty-five cents 
For
The whole offense 
But
We come back just the same.
THE ETERNAL LIAR.
I was born a hundred years ago,
And youll find there isnt much I do 
not know;
I saw Peter, Paul, and Moses playing 
ring around the roses 
And Ill shoot the guy who says it 
isnt so.
I was living when this country had 
a king,
I saw Cleopatra pawn her wedding 
ring,
I saw Warrens colors flying 
When George Washington stopped 
lyingOn the night when Patti first began 
sing.
Queen Elizabeth, she fell in love with 
mo,
We were married in Milwaukee se
cretly,
Then 1 schemed around and shook her 
and join's with General Hooker 
A-chasing skeetors down in Tennnessoe.
1 taught Solomon his letters, A, B, C's, 
I was living when they made limburger cheese,
And when sailing down the bay with 
Methusaleh one day,
I saved his flying whiskers from the 
breeze.
1 saw Solomon and all his ladies fair 
I saw Absalam a-hanging by his hair, 
When I saved King Davids life, and 
he offered me his wife,
I said, Now youre talking business, 
have a chair.
I saw Satan when he viewed the gar
den oer, \
I saw Eve and Adam driven from the 
door,
I was i'ound the corner peeping, saw 
the apple they were eating,
And J swear that Im the guy that ate 
the core.
Case Tech.* * *
MORE TRUTH THAN POETRY.
She wore a band around her neck 
Some powder on her nose 
And now that you have mentioned it 
i think she wore some clothes.
Penn State Froth.
We must be getting old at that 
Old age is falling fast 
We cant tell if they have or haint 
Without an opery glass.
fhus wailed a young plebe; Up at 
Water fd.
To slop out every night I could 
well afl'd.
Cut a month here at Tk.
And my roll is a wk.
For they want so dm much 
just for room rm. & bd.* * *
THE MYSTERY.
Who is that bird with the downcast air
And the glassy eye and the vacant stare,
With the general look of nobody 
there,
And the crackling joints and the grey
ing hair,
Like an elderly spinsters maidens prayer? 
Who is that downcast gloomy wreck 
Who walks like a man on a tossing deck;
Or like a man on his way to Mech, 
With one-fifth brain and four-fifths neck?
Instead of a campus-liound at Tech.
Why does he shamble with move
ments loose,
About a sgraceful as a moose;
Or a crippled hen or a three-legged goose?
Is his brain clear gone, or just obtuse? 
He looks like a statue of whats the
That man, my son, has a sad, sad 
tale
Enough to make a strong man quail; 
For
He hunted near, he hunted far,
He went on foot, he took the car;
But the shock quite injured his mind, 
by heck!
For
He found a room a block from Tech!
Have a heart, Al, weve just paid 
.lie landlady two weeks in advance.
ROOSEVELT IN COLLEGE LIFE
Colonel Roosevelt has asked my 
plans for my boy, and I had told him 
1 meant to send him io Harvard * if 
1 had the necessary funds.
It does not, said he, require very
 moucj i,u 'sdnci .i 00^ tillou^
Harvard, or for that matter, Yale, or 
any of the big schools. The fact is 
that the boy who has too much money 
in college is just as badly off as the 
poor fellow who has none. I have 
every sympathy with the boy who 
works his way through college, but 1 
realize that the poor fellow who has 
to divide his time between work, class
room and study does not begin to got 
all a man should get out of college. 
He does not get the real spirit of die 
university, and lies apt to come out 
with a mass of undigested knowledge, 
worn physically ami mentally.
On the other hand, the boy who has 
unlimited money has unlimited op
portunities to spend it, to get into 
trouble and acquire habits that will be 
handicap in later life. With the 
aid of tutors he gets his degree, and 
leaves college just as does the ex
tremely poor boy without having got
ten the real benefit of the college.
On the other hand, the boy of 
moderate means, enough to permit 
him to take a real part in all college 
activities, but not enough to permit 
or induce extravagance, gets about 
everything there is to be had. They 
the men who really benefit by 
college.
It does not hurt a boy to have to 
do some worksome of the best men 
I have known have had to do some 
work while in collegebut the fellow 
who has all work, who goes to his 
studies tired, whose interest is divid
ed, and who has no time for the light
er activities, is unfortunate. He 
would do better to delay his entrance 
until he could accumulate enough 
funds to make his stay in the univer
sity less of a constant drill.
That, I know, is not quite so ro
mantic, but it is eminently more prac
tical.From McClures for October.
CHRISTMAS CARDS ON SALE.
The Graphica Xmas Card Campaign 
has started off with a flourish. With 
the cards on sale only three days a 
large number of orders have been 
turned in to the present time. Twelve 
of the most popular men from the 
Science, Arts, and Industries Divi
sions have been selected as agents for 
the cards. Two or three young ladies 
from the M. M. Division to handle the 
cards in that Division are needed and 
the managers of the campaign will 
gladly explain the proposition to them 
if they will call at the Department of 
Printing, in the Division of Industry.
The progress of the campaign will 
be shown graphically by a huge chart 
some 18 feet in length and four feet 
high which has been erected in the 
department. Every noon the sales 
that have been reported for the pre
vious day will bo. blocked in. Each 
dollars worth of cards sold of any 
design is represented by a block in the 
section of that card. Every one in
terested in the sale is cordially invit
ed to visit the department and watch 
these lines grow.
The managers of the campaign ask 
all purchasers to place their orders 
as soon as possible in order that they 
may receive their cards on the first
delivery which 
the first of Decem 
posted when the 
distribution.
ill be made about 
ber. Notices will be 
}ards are ready for
PUAMYMARK
A
MERICA is fast becoming a pipe smoking country. Every 
 year more and more men are realizing the comfort, the satis
faction, and the economy of the pipe. And by natural selection, 
more and more men are smoking W D C Pipes. This is not 
chance. It is because W D C Pipes offer the utmost in pipe value. 
Honest French briar, seasoned by our own special process make 
WD C Pipes break in sweet and mellow. Coupled with that is a 
self-governed body of pipe makers whose sole object is to fashion 
pipes which are without peers in all the world. And it has been 
accomplished. Ask any good dealer.
ST. PAULC 8c HE.. DRF iEft
WORLDlS LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE hdtnVOVs
Patronize the Tartan Advertisers
and in New York
"just enough Turkish
sc fact: New York surely does like Fatima. It is 
the best 8eller at fashionable clubs, at the Stock 
Exchange and even at leading hotels such as these:
Astor Knickerbocker NetherlandsBelmont Manhattan Pennsylvania
Biltmore McAlpin Vanderbilt
FATIMA
A Sensible Cigarette
