VOL. I., No. 15PITTSBURG, PA., WEDNESDAY, FEB. 13, 1907PRICE FIVE CENTS
JUNIOR PRESIDENT KIDNAPPED.THE- FOOD VALUE OF A 
THOUGHT.
SCHOOL PETITIONS DIRECTOR.
CIvASS RUSH ON THURSDAY.
1 he most exciting week in the history 
of the Technical Schools came to a close 
last Friday evening when Jim Sampson, 
the 08 President, ambled into the school 
building and greeted his friends. He 
looked the worse for wear, after his 
long imprisonment, but insisted that he 
had Been treated to the best and felt 
fine.
The whole affair was the result of a 
clever hoax upon the nart of the Juniors 
to lead the Plebes to believe that Friday, 
Feb. 8, was to be the date of the 08 
banquet. A -class me'eting was held last 
Monday and the regular procedure of a 
session whose object was a banquet, was 
went through. Motions were made as 
to speakers and toastmaster; and to any
one outside the class the matter assumed 
the appearance- of -the real thing. It was 
not .Jong after that the news reached 
Plebe ears, and preparations were made 
to spoil things, and Wednesday night 
was fixed as the date to kidnap Sampson. 
Jirri did not look for such speedy action-on the part of the lower classmen, 
and unsuspectingly went without guards 
to the Cafeegie Library on the evening 
in question- (,JJpon coming out he was 
immediately surrounded and carried to 
an awaiting "automobile and hustled to 
the home of Pone Urling, where he was 
tied up and told to calm himself. The 
following mornings paner told the story 
of the whole affair, and it naturally 
threw the Juniors into a fever of ex
citement. Many theories were suggest
ed, and it was left undecided whether to 
make no attempt at his rescue, or make 
violent demonstration and attempt to 
(Continued on page 2.)
The North American Magazine of 
Philadelphia has an interesting interview 
with John Brashear, one of the trustees 
of this school, and it is of such a nature 
that The Tartan feels it will be both in
teresting and instructive.
Mr. Brashear said: The last quarter 
of a century has revolutionized astron
omy. We used to account for the in
tense h^at and energy of the sun by the 
theory of meteoric accretion, but now 
we attribute this to the shrinkage of 
the great ball. You have pounded a 
piece of lead into a small ball and felt 
how hot it got as you kept on pounding! 
Well, that is our present belief as to the 
heat of the sun. It is contracting all 
the time, and this contraction generates 
an enormous amount of heat, which 
burns up all the metals of which the sun 
is composed exactly as if they were the 
most inflammable of materials.
I believe the day is coming when we 
will gather the energy of the sun just 
as it comes to us, in direct rays, and 
store it up and use it to run our mills 
and factories. The solar engine has 
never beefi given a fair trial for the 
simple reason that there is plenty of fuel 
in the world as yet. But when the sup
ply runs short, as it must some day, the 
energy of the sun will cause the desert 
to blossom as a rose, for it is on the 
desert that the sun shines hottest. How 
we see the working of the great law of 
compensation in everything!
And take the stars. Our medieval as
tronomers taught us the stars were all 
fixedunmovable-in the heavens. The 
doubting student came along in later 
. years, and with his instruments of pre(Continued on page 2.)
The petition printed herewith has 
been submitted to Director Hamerschlag. 
Nearly every man in the school has 
signed, and it ts hoped the outcome will 
be favorable:
To the Director.
We, the undersigned, students of the 
Carnegie Technical Schools, wish to re
spectfully petition you, if it be possible 
and advisable, to provide a gymnasium 
and a physical director for the promo
tion and judicious regulation of Ath
letics.
In support of this petition we beg 
leave to offer the follownig reasons:
FirstWithout a home, such as a 
gymnasium provides, Athletics can with 
the greatest difficulty onlv. be sustained 
to any degree of efficiency and a physical 
director is in almost inevitable appur
tenance to a gymnasium.
SecondA physical director, competent 
to make physical examinations and to 
coach the different teams, would great
ly reduce the chance of serious accidents 
by insisting upon proper training, as 
well as by excluding the physically un
fit. He would also make it possible to 
avoid the evils of the uaid coach, and 
decrease the expense incident to such 
coaching.
ThirdA physical director with the 
gymnasium to aid him would make the 
regulation of Athletics easier, because he 
could be held responsible by you for the 
honest and effective conduct of athletic 
affairs.
FourthHe would increase the gen
eral interest in Athletics by diversifying 
ing the forms of sport to be engaged in, 
and by directing individuals intelligently 
to the kind of contest for which they 
(Continued on page 8.)
/

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
Hotel Schenley
Estimates 
Given 
for 
School 
and
Club
Dinners.
/B oB thPne s.
 OAKLAND
Meat Market
CHOICE HOME DRESSED 
Meats & Poultry 
Scar bu/gh& &KB
Both Phones.
Bell Phone 1939 Highland
l,&KnHA& R DunAK.
Hatters and Furnishers
WEdE OUFF ,NUFIU. hB hB
OPEN EVENINGS.
142 Park-BOTH PHONES-142 Schenley
Scarborough & Klauss,
HARDWARE and HOUSE 
FURNISHING GOODS..
Mixed Paints, Glass, Cement, Sewer Pipe 
Furnaces, Tin Sooflng and Job Worfc promptly done
Improved Midget Gas Furnaces 
ScaG bnbKl ,DhHmhB
JUNIOR PRESIDENT KIDNAPPED.
(Continued from page VOOL 
rescue him in order that the Plebes 
might further take the bait, and kidnap 
the toastmaster. A few contended that 
if Exline, the 09 President, were cap
tured. it might liven up things, and sure 
enough, through the agency of a fake 
telephone message, he was lured to the 
lower corridor and taken in charge by 
some uoper classmen. His loud cries 
of 09 brought the Plebes to his rescue, 
and in ten minutes a battle royal was 
on in front of the school buildings. The 
melee lasted some twenty minutes, and 
as if by common consent both sides 
withdrew to the class rooms.
Friday noon the Juniors got together 
and appointed committees to search the 
houses of Messrs. John Weidlien, Urling and Eberhardt, for it was thought 
that he must be at one of these places. 
At Urlings the room where he had been 
was located, but no clue to his present 
whereabouts could b& found. The 
Plebes had slyly taken him, that ver> 
morning, to Bellevue.
During the early part of Friday morn
ing a telegram had been sent to Samp
son by some Juniors, notifying him of 
the injury of a near relative. The Plebe 
captors suspected that it was a fake; but 
feeling that it was too serious a matter 
to take chances on, let him go at 5 P. 
M. Friday. This part of the affair is the 
unfortunate endingbut we can say that 
both classes deserve a full measure of 
credit for the way things wfent off.
THE FOOD VALUE OF A 
THOUGHT.
(Continued from page 1.) 
cision soon discovered there were no 
fixed stars. He could readily measure 
their movements across the line of sight; 
but when moving away from or towards 
us his instrumental equipment utterly 
failed him.
Then came the telespectroscope, by 
the use of which this new principle could 
be applied, and now our astronomers 
are rapidly gaining a knowledge of the 
motion of all the more important stars 
in the heavens. With that knowledge 
has come to us the interesting fact that 
bur own Solar Systemour sun, our 
earth, and our sister planetsare moving 
through the universe at the rate of 1,680,-
000 miles in 24 hours, or about 12^2 
miles a second, in the direction of the 
constellation Hercules.
Bell Phone 292 J Schenley
M. H. JONES
Maker of
GENTLEMENS FINE
GARMENTS
Latest Styles. Prices Extremely Low 
i3i OAKLAND AVE.
.. . SHIRTS ...
pv MiLVU4
to give every young man one of ours to 
wear. Our Shirt Sale makes it easy.
McCANDLESS & GORDON CO.
33.0 UDiazaa.oaa.d. St.
ALL TEXT BOOKS USED IN
CARNEGIE TECHNICAL SCHOOLS. 
SUPPLIED BY
R. S. Davis & Co. 
441 WOOD STREET
Drawing Instruments, K Squares, 
Triangles, &c.
CIvIASRUIH O NTD YY.8D1I .I.,No1.5 . j Uell Highland
.  TECH  SPECIALTIES AT
THE HOLMES COMPANY 
BOOKMEN, STATIONERS, ENGRAVERS, 
6016 PENN AVE., E. E., PITTSBURGH.
BOTH PHONES 2097
The Edward E. Rieck Co.
SELECT 
CREAMERY PRODUCTS
MILKCREAM
and ICE CREAM
Cor. Forbes and Stevenson Streets 
PITTSBURG, PA.
It was but yesterday we heard of a 
new star whose brilliant light burst 
forth in the heavens, not when we first 
caught a glimpse of it, but maybe a hun
dred years ago; and it is so far distant 
that its light, flashing across the 
stellar depths at the rate of 186,000

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN3
gj OUK DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS : are well known throughout this community for their progressive 0conservatism, business ability and integrity ij
S^VHTG-S 5 TEUST CO.
Capital, - $200,000.00 Surplus, - $146,800.00
OFFICERS : Jas J. Flannery, Pres.; James J. Booth, Vice Pres.; Jno. G. Pew, 2d Vice Pres, and Sec.; C. B. Aylesworth, Treas.
_DIRECTORS; Jas. J. Flannery, Jas. J. Booth, John G. Pew, Wm. I,oeffler, J. N. Pew, C. H. Kerr, John Dimling, Arthur E. Pew, Frank Gordon.^
gjsjBjgjBiai5J5i5JBEJ5i5Ei5i5i5i5JBJBJBJ5J5J5J5JBEJEHEiEibi
Atwood Pharmacy
J. T. McFADDEN, Prop. 
Cor. Forbes Ave. & Atwood St.
Bell 9080 Schenley 
P. &. A. 166 Park
LIBEETT
301 CBAIG ST.
Hockey and Gymnasium Shoes
TTTTTTTTTTHETTTTTTTTTT
Graeser & Crowleys
Iroquois Block
Open till   . 3613 ...
9.00 P. M. Forbes Street
BUSINESS IMPROVING !so
WEVE ANOTHER CHAIR! 
at
The TECHBarber Shop
Cor. Craig and Forbes Sts.
H. F. VAN CUREN
miles per second, may have taken all 
these years to reach us.
Placing the slit of our telespectro
scope upon the new star, we observe the 
awe-inspiring phenomenon of a sun in 
flames. Our inference is that there has 
been a collision between two stellar 
worlds somewhere in the universe, and 
now we witness the elements melting 
with fervent heat, perhaps a hundred 
years after the awful cataclysm has 
taken place. A year later the light of 
that brilliant star has faded from mor
tal vision; but the astronomical camera, 
penetrating far deeper into the stellar 
depths than the human eye when aided 
by the telescope, reveals to us the story 
of a disintegrated worldnow a mass 
of nebulaready to go through its long 
evolution, possibly in countless millions 
of years to become a star againDr. Brashear took from his desk 
drawer some photographs of these very 
things, and they told me of some things 
he has done in the realm of astronomi
cal research. Then I gave vent to my 
amazement over his ability to deal suc
cessfully with such infinitessimal fig
ures and such impalpable thingsfor 
the final polish a lens is rubbed on by 
hand with rougeyes, the very kind our 
fair friends sometimes use to make 
themselves more fair!
Why! he exclaimed, the day will 
come when such figures as we now 
deem large or small shall look crude. 
As to the small ones, let me tell you 
something: We learn from the Physi
cist that an atom of hydrogen can be 
broken ur> into nearly a thousand cor
puscles ; that the atom of radium has 
stored within it an energy of which our 
older science did not dream.
Furthermore, our advanced physi
cists, or at least some of them, have rel
egated matter to a new field and tell us 
that negative electricity is matteri. e., 
that electrons and matter are intercontrovertible terms.
THE WONDERS OF ATOMS.
Lord Kelvin says of an atom: If
we raise a drop of water to the size of 
the earth and raise the atom in the same 
proportion, then will it be some place
^tFORtisST, OAKLAND. 
PITTSBURG.
ANOTHER mmi SALE25c; EACH Up
For Ties that look and 
wear a half dollars 
worth. New Shirts 
for Spring are arriving
between the size of a marble and a 
cricket ball. 
If you fill a tiny vessel one centi
metre cube, with hydrogen corpuscles, 
you can place therein round numbers 
525 octillions of them. If these corpus
cles are allowed to run out of the ves
sel at the rate of 1,100 per second, it 
will require 17,000,000, 000,000 of years 
to empty. Such a computation seems 
almost like trifling with scienceindeed, 
apparently trifling with the human in
tellectbut it is with these subtle the
ories that our physicists are delving into 
the innermost chamber of the infinitely 
minute.
What are we coming to? I asked.
Who can tell ? Brooks has said: It
may be some day we shall be able to
construct a living organism by the com
bination of the proper elements- Dare
I say that some day we may know the 
food value of a thought?
 o------
NOTICE TO JUNIORS.
Verbatim notes on Industrial Eco
nomics lectures may be had upon ap
plication to Business Manager of Tar
tan.---------o----------
We noticed Georgie Fischer at 
the concertwhat was her name, 
George ?

---------------------------------------------------

4THE TARTAN
THE TARTAN
Official Student Organ Carnegie Technical School
F. E. Foster, 08.............Editor-in-Chief
R. K. Merrill, 08... .Associate EditorJ. H. Taxis, 10............Associate EditorJ. M. Sampson, 08. .Business Manager 
H. P. Fowler, 08..Asst Business Mgr 
CORRESPONDENTS.
Jean Herron.............M. M. C. S. (Day)
Edith Clark...........M. M. C. S. (Night)
J. S. Charles.. .Applied Science (Day) A. F. Stamm. .Applied Science (Night) 
A. G. Lamont, 09..........Applied Design
Subscription RatesYearly - - - - - - - $1.00
Single Copy - - - - - 5 Cents
For Advertising Rates address the 
Business Manager, care Carnegie Technical School.
NOTICE.
is ever handed in by either their corre- FROM THE DIARY OF "PERDIspondent or by the class as individuals. CARIS.No one deplores that fact more than I,-,  . ..... '-v.:. v*
and, with that end in view, a change in Ask Razulis men how much sleep
the Tartans staff is about to be made, they had last Thursday night,
which, with the aid of the 09 men,. . r k,should effectually dissipate any doubts1 And the floor hit McCanclIess. 
but that the Tartan is strictly a schoolpaper. Ash! Methin.ks I hear the footsteps
---------o------ of a Junior.
NOTICE.
The management of the Hotel 
Schenley wishes to announce that on 
every Wednesday and Saturday a 
course Matinee Luncheon will be 
served at 12 noon, $1.50 per person. 
A Menu will be mailed by request. 
The Schenley will make a special 
feature of the above for those who 
wish to entertain Theater Parties. 
Reserve tables in advance.
Engrues Orchestra will be in ser
vice from 12 to 2 Wednesdays and 
Saturdays.
ALL THE HONORS OF WAR."
I am making the above phrase the 
subject for a few lines of explanation 
to those who evidently mistook its- im
port. As I came in to dinner this even
ing I overheard a first-year man raking 
the Tartan staff over the coals for its 
unfairness in one of the articles in last 
weeks issue. I said then, and think I 
should again, that the writer of the ar
ticle pave the Tartans readers the credit 
of knowing the meaning of the phrase 
above, one they must have seen many, 
many times if they ever read any his
tory. For the benefit, however, of those 
to whom the meaning is unknown, let
us suppose General A------s besieged
army is defeated by General Bs, 
but only after the former had put up a
stubborn fight, General B------, himself
a brave man and delighting to honor bravery in others, acts like a gentleman 
and a soldier by allowing the vanquish
ed men under General A------ to march
out with all their accoutrements and 
weapons, or, marching out with all the 
honors of war. 
As applied to our own pitched battle, the phrase simply meant that the Juniors 
had been defeated, but the Plebes acted 
as gentlemen and allowed the Juniors 
to depart with all the honrs of war. 
So much for that. I wish to mention 
one thing else which has come to my 
ears; i. c., that very little concerning 
the Plebe class is ever in the Tartan. 
Why? Simply because little or nothing
It has been brought to the attention 
of the editor, that tbe Tartan is becom
ing more and more an organ of the Junr 
ior Class of 1908- It is evident to those 
who are closely allied with the paper 
that such a supposition is almost serious mistake or rather a mistake in the policy. 
Every department of the school is rep
resented upon the staff with the exception of the Day Industrials, and they 
have been asked to elect a correspon
dent. It cannot be the charge of any 
staff member that a censor has been put 
upon his work, for this is untrue. The 
truth is, the correspondents with the 
exception of the class of 1911 (night), 
are not doing their part in supporting 
the editorial end. It is manifestly im
possible for the editor to be cognizant 
of. happenings in the Plebe class, as it 
is also in the various other departments 
of the school and his only hope for copy 
is the correspondents from these de
partments.
If the . men will at at least give the 
facts of any occurrence, they can be as
sured of an insertion.
A woman never admits that she has 
a desire for mans admiration.
Women do not bid for compliments, 
but they know how to lead up to them.
A woman can detect a mans feelings 
by the way he holds her hand.
STATISTICS.
Im giad I wasnt llinked-up to 
Kirkwood.
Beek has a new kind of sandwich 
crackers around a slice of axle-grease.
Pone (at a window) Who is that?
Voice from out-doorsIts Dave.
Pone (in relief)-Humph! I 
thought it was somebody!
- -  . . , _ - ... .   * ? Id like to know who hid my shoes.
I thought I knew how many people 
an automobile would holdWink had a queer sort of night-cap.
How to sleep on two boards: Knight.
Im going to take lessons from HovdiniBuck, youre a trump.
We certainly put the Glee .. Club to 
shame.
Deck is quite popular in Bellevue.
Just think of anyone falling asleep 
while playing Attila.
Say, Pete, were you trying to kid
nap th^ horse, too?
Hello!Shousetown ? r, ;
-ooq. Most Footless. 08.
Knight ....................................HamnetMost Eccentric.
Libowski ............................... Peebles.
Most Conceited.
Kirkwood ..................................Haring.
Class Sport.
Davis ......................................Thurston.
Most Modest.
Rosenfeld ........................... Cunnings.
Windiest.Dowling . ............................Henderson.
Greatest Winner.
Mr. Beeken ................................Weick.
Thinks He Is.
Potts ........................................Koethen.
V ainestShaub ........................................Coursin.
Most Scientific Flirt.Adams ....................................Sampson.
Wittiest.
Turner ......................................Sivitz.
Loudest.
Boughner ................ Colmery
SCRAP NOTESDid any one notice Harring in the 
scrap on last Thursday? He handled 
the Plebes with gloves on.
Some say the Plebes have the laugh 
on the Juniors, and vice versa; but, as 
several have been heard to remark, both 
classes seemed to have a good time out 
of the event.
We should have liked to see Prof. 
McLucas exceeding the  speed limit to
ward Soho.
Poor Homtley gets the worst of every 
scrap. This time he broke a ham string 
or something similarly located.
During the fight Prof. Hokie could be 
observed on the outskirts of the howling 
mob, extensometer in hand, waiting to 
measure the percentage of elongation of 
Exline.
The female members of the office force 
seemed to side with the. Juniors. How 
cruel!. 

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN5
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON,
CUSTOM
FITTING
SHOES 
$5.00 - $4.00 - $3.50
PENN AND FRANKSTOWN AVES. 
East End.
a RESULT
-OFh1Oh/K /h&h,/el
The Connell-Hughes Water Purifier 
and Aerator The water from this 
apparatus has been proven absolutely 
pure, and is most palatable.
Partial list of installations:
Carnegie Technical Schools.
Union Trust Co.
Mellons National Bank.
The Liberty Restaurant.
McKennans Pharmacy, 431 Market st.
Friebing's Drug Store, 1500 Lincoln 
avenue. .
Porters Drug Store, N. Highland ave
nue.
Walkers Drug Store, Sewickley.
Huston's Confectionary Store, Bry
ant street.
Show Rooms, 509 Wood street.
WAKE UP, PLEBES.
Lately several protests have been 
heard around school and have come to 
the notice of the Tartan staff, that the 
Plebes consider their paper purely a 
Junior monopoly. It is admitted that 
some of the articles have had a leaning 
toward the side of the Tuniors, but it 
must be remembered that they were 
written by one who looks at things from 
the standpoint of a Junior- If any Plebe 
had chosen to write an article about the 
same event, and it was better written, it 
would undoubtedly have been accepted 
and printed. The Tartan is just what 
it is supposed to be, a school organ, and 
all classes should have a chance to ex
press their opinions; but it will be ad
mitted that if matter is not written by a class and handed in to the staff, the 
members of a class have no kick coming.
It has been decided not to move the 
Mechanical Laboratory until the new 
building is quite finished, owing to the trouble which might arise in the confu
sion of moving. The builders have been 
hampered by the failure of the firm hav
ing the contract for the window frames, 
wood trimmings, etc., to deliver the 
material as soon as had been expected. The new Margaret Morrison School is 
coming along fairly well and was not 
damaged by the slight fire which oc
curred there last Wednesday at noon.
One little matter which has apparently 
escaped the notice of several students is the patronizing of Tartan advertisers. 
We ought to be loyal enough to several 
of our fellow students to back them up 
in this matter, and, if we do buy arti
cles from advertisers, it will not cost us a bit of extra trouble or exoense. 
They are giving us a lift;; then let us 
help them all we can.
FOR EXPERTS
Engineers, Architects, Draughts
menExperts or Students . . .
Should get acquainted with 
the resources of supply for 
all Drawing and Artists Ma
terials offered by this house
KURTZ, LANGBEIN & SWARTZ,
606 Wood St., 6th Ave.
ulT &hh lhH/.
For Your Photographs 
Work Unexcelled
O. C. HENRY 
Studio, 321 Fifth Ave. - Pittsburg, Pa.
Special Discounts to Students
NEW BOOKS.
Thelnconveniences of Hat Tipping. 
A well bound book containing an intro
duction by Miss Rephargonetsi. By Bill 
Wallace.
Prisons and Prisoners.. By Jim 
Sampson.
Gas Producers. A treatise on the 
Weidlem type. By Dude Weidlem.
Knocking as an Art. How it should 
be done, lay one who knows- By 
Boughner.
---------o---------
Who went to Sprengles rescue?
The sun shines for allwho get up 
early.
The friend that does not help us 
higher is not worth having.
Sen &
A BOX OF CANDY
T O
YOUR VALENTINE
-Get It At~ HALLERS -
Iroquois Block 3618 Forbes Ave.
t**f***
i*t***************+
I
I
Kaerchers Drug Store
COR. FORBES AND CRAIG STREETS
Schenley 1456 and 9018-J 303 Park

---------------------------------------------------

6THE TARTAN
Fraternity Pins, Class Pins, Badges, Prize Cups, Fine Toolss'
HEEREN BROS. & CO. MANUFACTURING JEWELERS and SILVERSMITHS,---HEEREN BUILDING, PENN A VE. & 8TH ST.---
oU piU vCU tpUi4 Jw vCU epiFU9LU KUVCB &VCJJ0 OLF4B
1911SLEIGHING PARTY.
On the evening of January 31st a number of 1911 men held a sleighing party. 
Owing to the fact that the time for mak
ing arrangements was necessarily short, 
the affair could not have been, and consequently was not extensively adver
tised.
If the reports of those who attended, 
and the mysterious interchange of winks 
and whispers, and a veritable epidemic 
of cold blisters can be taken as a cri
terion,' the affair must have been a success Of 110 mean magnitude. This is not 
surprising,as it is the first attempt at any kind of social function since the 
smoker held Dec. 4, 1906.
The itinerary of the sleigh ride cov
ered a distance of about ten miles along 
the Brownsville Road, a favorite drive with sleighing parties both on account 
of the excellence of the road and beauty of scenery. The terminus of the drive 
was the famous old Hotel Windsor, 
where a chicken and waffle supper had 
been ordered.
It does not necessarily follow that the 
supper was indulged in because it was 
ordered. The members of the party ab
stain religiously from saying that a 
chicken and waffle supper was served, 
and an evasive reply is always given 
when any inquiry is made as to whether 
said fowl and his toothsome party ac
companiment were in evidence.
The affair was in charge of the fol
lowing well known men, and to them is 
due the credit of having brought it to 
a successful issue.
Hess, secretary of the class of 1911, 
and chairman of the social committee and 
a redoubtable guard on the foot-ball 
team of the same illustrious class; Kirk 
and Miller, both fellow committeemen 
of the above named social committee 
and members of the class foot-ball team. 
Other well known 1911 men present in
cluded the Messrs. Flinn, Abbott, Farrel, Manion, Sloss and Jones, all of 
whom contributed to a greater or less 
extent to the general gaiety of the oc
casion. The modesty of the latter 
named gentlemen prevents their offices 
and deeds being detailed in this column, 
although it may be safely assumed that 
they were in every play. Report has it 
that they were the bright stars at the 
table, each vieing with the other in the 
effort to get the most out of the supperThe ones on whom the success of the 
sleigh ride really depended and without 
whom it would have been doomed to 
ignominius failure were the following 
ladies, all of whom are prominently 
identified with the best society of Pitts
burg and vicinity: Miss Gray, Miss Haslett, Miss Stucke, the two Misses Drexel, 
Miss Reynolds and Miss Watkins
Two hands in one pocket? Yes, but 
both did not belong to the same person. 
This was a favorite stunt at the sleigh
ing party, and may be characterized as 
the blue prints herding the menu of sweets which followed.
The Tartan is indebted to Mr. Howare Tritchler, the poet in 1911, for the 
picture of the schools which has appear
ed for some time past on the first page. 
Many thanks and .our apology for the 
tardiness of this acknowledgement.
Contributions to The Tartan are get
ting scarce again. This paper is not a 
one man show but a student organ, 
of the students, for the students and 
by the students, not by one or two.
1910 is going to have a banquet. Heres luck to you from 1911.
There is talk afloat about getting a 
night school hockey team and having a 
series of games with the team which 
represented Tech on the defunct league. 
Stir it up, the idea is a good one.
The class meeting scheduled for Wed
nesday evening, Feb. 6, had to be post
poned on account of the English class, 
which prevented a large number of 1911 
men attending. It was held on Monday, 
Feb- 11, and full details will be given in 
the next issue.
A system of marking, which is, ac
cording to the inventor, a little more 
appropriate than the one recently installed :
CCorrect.
TTolerable.
SSkiddooSome one facetiously asked if the L in new gradings were equivalent to 
being branded a Senior.
We are certainly nroud of our Glee 
and Mandolin Clubs. The representa
tives of the night classes helped mate
rially in making the affair of the first a 
success.
1911 is proud of her atheltic repre
sentative in the association. (So is he.)
----------o----------
THE ITALIAN QUARTER.
Almost any city boasts an Italian col
ony, for they are essential to the pro
duction of germs, of which every modern city must have its share. The Ital
ian quarter in the Wylie avenue district 
of Pittsburg is not deficient in the mat
ter of germs, for it can be safely esti
mated that there are more crawling
BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN 
CHURCH,
Fifth and Bellefield Avenues.
Rev. Daniel Russell, D.D., Pastor.
Sunday Services:
9.45 a. m.Young Mens Bible Class, 
conducted by W. H. Stevenson.
11.00 a. m.Preaching8.00 p. m.
Students of Carnegie Technical School welcome at all services.
Sabbath Evenings in February, 1907. 
Your temperament is not your fate.
The Gospel and
(Feb. 3) The Melancholic.
( 10) The Sanguine.
( 17) The Phlegmatic.( 24) The Gholeric.
When your will blends with Gods, 
even inherited tendencies to evil acknowledge their defeat.
creatures to the square inch here, than in any other section of Pittsburg.
We hear so much about the pictur
esqueness of the streets and of the peo
ple, and about the brilliant colors with 
which they adorn themselves, that the 
real thing surprises us. The colors 
may have been brilliant once upon a 
time, but the majority of them would 
be greatly benefitted by a visit to the 
wash tub, not to an Italian wash tub, 
but to a tub presided over by a stout 
personage of Irish descent, for the Ital
ian dames have a charming way of dip
ping the clothes into the water and 
calmly wringing them out again without 
wasting any elbow grease, or wearing 
out the washboard.
However, it is not the intention to 
destroy the readers of fond illusions of 
Little Italy, but nevertheless in our 
pictures of this interesting quarter, we 
omit one essential factor. We can 
easily call to mind the narrow crowded 
streets, the low tumble-down houses 
lining the thoroughfares on each side, 
the ever present dirt, the swarms of chil
dren, the dirty shops with their hand-medown suits hanging before them, idly 
flapping in the breeze, the dirt incrusted 
windows with their time-worn array of 
goods behind themwe can picture all 
this readily- But to get the real atmos
phere of the place we need something 
else, something which cannot be so 
easilv imaginedthis is the delicate 
aroma which pervades the air, more 
especially in the shops and houses. This 
particular aroma is a happ" blend of 
garlic and stale tobacco smoke. So the

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN7
HOME 
of the 
Interscholastic 
POLO 
LEAGUE.
TRACTION RINK
ROLLE R
Skating.
PN.T. SN. BoII.U. RoG5 Uo 
KCLiv8ywJIivC pF6 OUFF ,NUFIUB 
bnHh&K hkmnOOhP /nHs nH Klh &K,Kh 
All Car Lines.
POLO GAMES
EVERY
MONDAY
AND
FRIDAY i" 
EVENINGS.
EIMER & AMEND
205-211 ^hird Avenue, New York
Manufacturers and Importers of
Chemicals, Chemical Apparatus,
PHYSICAL APPARATUS, 
SCIENTIFIC INSTRUMENTS.
Everything Needed in the Laboratory.
APPRENTICES AND JOURNEYMEN.
reader is advised when reading the 
flowery descriptions of little Italy, to 
procure a piece of garlic and gently wave it before the nose, so that the illu
sion will be complete.
It was Mark Twain who said that 
part of the Italian populace became sol
diers, another part ''riests, while the 
rest went into the shoemaking business. 
So a shoe-shop was visited by the writer. 
The conditions which existed there were surprising. The shop occupied one 
room, or rather part of a room, for the 
sitting-room, dining-room, bed-rooms, and kitchen were combined in one room, 
which was separated from the shop by 
a calico curtain of extravagant pattern.
In this limited area seven people made
their home, the --------- and spending
his day in the shop surrounded by his 
tools and piles of shoes in every stage 
of dissolution.
It was rather interesting to notice the 
surprising faculty which the customers 
exhibited in identifying their foot-gear; 
as the mended shoes were piled indis
criminately in a heap on the floor.
In the rear room the mother and her 
five children spent part of their time. Although the apartment was not in what 
would be called apple pie order, the 
lady of the house had ample time to spend in excited conversation with her 
unoccupied neighbors.
The sleeping facilities would not be 
considered sufficient by some, but as the 
house was visited by day, it w7as impossible to learn what strange methods 
were resorted to, ir order to safely stow 
away the seven sleepers in a ten by 
twelve room.How simple domestic, life is under 
such conditions! The weary housewife 
does not have to go from room to room 
to call her family in the morning, for 
Guiseppe, Antonio, Salvadore, Mary,j 
Theresa, and Tomaso are complacently 
snoring all about her, and she has but 
to poke one with her foot, pull another 
up by his ear, and in a short time her
entire family will be up and ready to 
partake of breakfast on the spot.
By Miss Edna C. Smith.
NEWS ITEMSA statement from the late Alphonse 
de Rothschild put in epigrammatical form of the elements u^on which he 
based the success of his famous house: 
Carefully examine every detail of 
your business.Be prompt in everything.
Take time to consider, but decide 
positivelyDare to go forward.Bear troubles patiently.Maintain your integrity as a sacred thing.
Never tell business lies.
Pay your debts promptly.
Make no useless acquaintances.Accountics,
The Mechanicals are securing most satisfactory results in their experiments 
with the floating dynamometer.
The Electricals are installing the stor
age batteries for the Chemical Depart
ment.
An exchange says: The quantity of 
coal used by some of the big steamships is startling. The new turbine liner, 
Lusetania, has an indicated horse-power 
of 65,000, which means a consumption 
of 435 tons of steam per hour, which it 
will require 50 tons of coal to make nearly a ton a minute. This means 
more than 1,200 tons of coal a day, or 
in five days she will consume over 6,000 
tons of coal.
Palmer and Harnbostle, a firm of which Prof. Harnbostle is a member, 
have won the competition for the new 
Soldiers Memorial Hall to be located on 
the Schenley Farms Property.
The President of the Journeymens 
Department appointed Alec McCaig, bricklayer; Wm. OLeary, machinist, H. 
A. Wells, plumber, as representatives to 
the Athletic Association.
Laboratory organ is nearing comple
tion in the Physics department- It will 
be a four-stop instrument tuned to Phys
ical Pitch and used for experiments on 
sound. The fellows here^ at Tech are extremely fortunate in having an oppor
tunity to investigate along lines in 
Physics that are unknown to students of 
the great majority of technical schools.
Miss Mangan and Mr. Elmer Ault 
were married last Thursday. Miss Man
gan was a member of the night division 
of the M. M. C. S.
The Day Industrial Course began last Monday with an enrollment of forty 
students. The course is designed to fit 
the men for the positions of shop fore
men. Courses in Draughting, Plumbing, Bricklaying, Pattern-making, Ma
chine work and Foundry practice are 
being given.
An order has been placed with the Worthington Co- for a 450 square foot 
surface condenser for the Mechanical 
Department.
Mr. J. H- Hill, M. E., Cornell Universiy, has joined the teaching staff in 
the Physics Department. Mr. Hill has 
had a varied engineering experience and was for some time connected with Gov
ernment Inspection work.
Work has begun in the Assaying La
boratory by the Metallurgists under the 
direction of Prof. Crabtree and Mr. Mc
Intosh. The work is of a very inter
esting nature and there is not likely to 
be any dissatisfaction on the part of the 
men for the strenuous hours imposed 
by th Prof.
Buck Ex, 09, was about last week 
and emphatically declares he is not mar
ried.
Dutch Hammer is still working on the 
Open Hearth. He was around last Saturday aiding Honk Phillips with his 
machine. The $1,250 Bick looks like 
a Wall street coffee wagon.
WHAT A STATE OF AFFAIRS.
If 1911 and 191 o. Apprentices and 
Journeymen, should clash.

---------------------------------------------------

8THE TARTAN
ltiltitiGJCiJiHJCiJCiJCilt^^L^bijCbfiBJ5J00BJQQciibiJti2i.GiiclJCiJl2i.bj d.j___________^dSJSMʮi3I31B3lSiDllciie!lii!iii!![i[L;
HOCKEY SHOES
NONE BETTER 
WE FIT THEM RIGHT!Geo. H. Stoebeneri
6227 PENN AVENUE 
6222 FRANKSTOWN AVENUE
AGENT ...
NEWARK SKATE
THE BEST MADE
fa
eli 3J3M3ISMSM3JSME15MSJ3MSJSi tjiii3JSJ3j2JSJ3J3Eil' J-Ji  ^ * * tiuL eLSiSMSiSIBEMSMISMSIBMSiMSIBISlSSJSJSMSJSJSMSM1 lr?i3J3JSI21
M. M. C. S.
BEELZEBUBS FAREWELL.
Carnegie Tech, Pittsburgh, Pa:
Dear Boys: I write to say good-bye, 
For even I who dwell below,
Am baffled at the tricks you try.
Enjoyment surely has been mine,
Your smokers, dinners, snowball fights 
Are pass-times fit to rival those 
Conceived and carried out by sprites.
The snowball fight I joined with glee, 
For down below theres no such play, 
And Ill be glad at any time 
To lead again such gentle fray.
Farewell, Ill teach my friends below 
Your manly sports and pass-times rare, 
And if you ever visit well
My home, be sure of welcome there.
And now, one word of sound advice, 
Mechanics, Civils, T. A. C.s,
Electricals and Crucibles,
Remember one who joined your teas.
In parting, and we both do feel,
And next best to myself as sub,
I wish to leave Fatty, the Cop,
With love, your friend Beelzebub.
A little gray flash
A wild feminine dash,
A faint little squeak
And all is oer.
The motto recently adopted by the 
Cs is Sewing is: As ye sew shall ye 
rip.
The girls of the day class have re
ceived invitations to a farewell recep
tion to be given by the associate night 
classes on Thursday evening, February 
the 14th, the hours bein~ from eight to 
eleven oclock.
One of the night class thought she 
had graduated in making wire frames. 
In order to prove her. ability and show 
what she. could do, she was told to make 
one according to measurements, using 
her own judgment- She proceeded to 
do so using the common wire used for 
making bands, etc., instead of the fine 
wire made for that purpose- So, girls, 
be yery careful when trimming a hat, do 
not use the frame material for trimming.
A great man was heard to say that 
the average man uses but one-third of 
his brain, while two-thirds lies dormant. 
It is to be hoped that the Carnegie 
Technical School students use all they 
have.
Despite the all-prevailing idea that 
Young America is self-centered, that 
common courtesy is on the wane, and 
that chivalry is a practice of the past, 
we are glad to relate an incident that 
proves the fallacy of such an idea. Last 
Monday night, after the adjournment 
of the Tech, one of the young ladies, 
striving to retain her equilibrium while 
crossing the bridge, was heard to ex
claim, Oh, my muff! The article had 
gone over the bridge into utter darkness 
below. After the usual parleying as to 
what could be done, one of the accom
panying voung ladies offered to descend 
the declivity in search of the missing 
muff. The attempt was a perilous one, 
and as the young lady slowly made her 
way down, she was passed by a young 
man, who evidently had seen or heard 
of the contretemps. He descended 
quickly, searched the sides and base of 
the slope, and finally found the object 
underneath the bridge; picking it up hur
riedly, he made his way around by the 
path, presented it to the owner and 
hastened away. The young lady, over
come with joy, was unable to express 
her gratitude, and, on account of the 
almost instantaneous departure of the 
young gentleman, failed to learn the 
name of the rescuing knight. Mystery 
tends to intensify interest. Who is the1 
chivalrous one ? Let him be who he 
may, he deserves the highest commenda
tion, not alone for his act, but for proving that consideration and courtesy are 
virtues not entirely extinct.
SCHOOL PETITIONS DIRECTOR.
(Continued from page 1.) 
are best fittted by nature- The right 
man could encourage the diffident to 
take some part "and restrain the unwise, 
thus eventually realizing the ideal con
dition, that the Athletics of the Schools 
should be a field for the activities of all 
or at least a majority of the students, 
rather than a few.
FifthIf so desired, gymnasium ex
ercise could be made a requirement for 
all students.-------o------
COMMENTS.
While the two classes were cheering 
each other after the snow-fight last 
Friday,, would it not have been the 
proper thing to cheer the faculty for 
allowing the melee to last as long as 
it did?
At the concertSchaedle was so 
shy about the posies, but was very 
generous with them when he finally 
did take them. And Laithe had such 
a nice smile when his bouquet came 
down the aisle.
M.abt)ieu Electric Co.,
Electrical Construction, Repair Work 
and Supplies of Every Description 
6010 CENTER AVENUE
E. E., PITTSBURG, PA.
Bell Phone Highland 172
GOOD THINGS TO EAT
AT THE PURE FOOD STORES OF
Geo. K. Stevenson & Co.
Sixth Avenue Highland and Center
Down Town AW5S A1E
Schumacher was the recipient of 
many congratulations last week. Its 
too bad he didnt bring her with him.
Says one Plebe to another: When I 
saw even dignified uGaston throwing 
snowballs,I couldnt resist the temptation any longer.
Second PlebeeDid you follow his 
example and get one in the eye?
De reason some of us dont git 
along, said a negro philosopher, is 
dat we sits down dreamin of automo-. 
biles when we orter be pushin a wheelbarrrer.
If the railroads give rebates to those 
people who pay them money, should 
not the tramp get a bonus?
Let the other fellow think for you 
while you are at school; youll pay 
him for it when you get out in the world.
Where were all the 08 and D9 men 
last Friday night? Didnt see many 
of them at the concert!
The Hon. Thomas McCaffrey 
(Fatty the Cop) says we are all de 
toime a-startin a ruction. Why, the idea!---------o---------  -
There is a picture of Samoson in his 
manacles, framed and hung up at the Tech barber shop.
Mr- John Weidlein was surprised to 
find his telephone wires cut last Friday 
evening. Well make a rah-rah boy out 
of you yet, John.
If we can only reach a mean between 
these two extremes, namely, the class^ 
rivalry as it is now, and as it was three 
months ago, it will be just right.
None of the professors called Samp
sons, name on the roll on Thursday or 
Friday. I wonder if he was marked 
absent.
The Industrials Chemists have a class 
of two men. Prof. James Makes Sivitz 
smile when he says: Now, Class.
