Fflt No./7eco-r-c/
MUSHBHmiMMDHIB
OP-THE
aMEdlE-TEtfini(AL-M1LS
Volume IVDECEMBER 1, VoloNumber 11
DECCMBR1,*y DVTTM?2OLTEL
IS THIS YOUR TARTAN ?

---------------------------------------------------

:creovys.o*0\ vxasxtxosxsxos
THE TARTAN
THE RITTENHOUSE
ummeINb r1peIieI Facilitieb meI 
reIving DinneIb, Ballb 
anN Banq1etb.
The Ball Reem mleeI ib c1bhieneN 
making it peImect meI Nancing.
rpecial InN1cementb te rt1Nentb 
em CaInegie Tech.
KUHNS
IN THE RITTENHOUrE
MR. ADVERTISER
GA UAS HIN..U heAF irI NstIHialaef 
tN.SI Aw N lnrAA. vNvIHc GA UAS 
HIN.aoI irNi dNHeIfaI CInr al irI .NHf
Ili iInreanN. lnrAA. ae irI ReaiIs 
MiNiIlPeAi fAaef iA I NeU AHIy Si 
EMc GA UAS HIN.aoI irNi Qubb liSsIeil 
NHI IeHA..Is rIHIPIeASfr iA NhI N 
fAAs laoIs iAFe Fair eA nra.sHIe AH 
A.s vIAv.Ic GA UAS heAF irNi CrI 
CNHiNe al Eil Ae.U liSsIei vNvIH Nes 
NvvINHl kp iaIl sSHaef irI lnrAA. 
UINHc TAFy -Hg LstIHialIHy sAemi UAS 
iraeh Ei FAS.s vNU iA .Ii irIlI UASef 
AeIU lvIesIHl 3irHII6wASHirl NHI 
Ie9 heAF FrNi UAS rNtI iA lI..c KAH 
HNiIl NssHIll
BUSINESS MANAGER TARTAN,
pYY4 E1W??G MC1VVC 
VLMC VTGy DECCMBR1,y DLg
t-l-A A JL AAjVVTV i VTTT I i * * TTTm  *
IROQUOIS ^
WrIHI N.. irI 7CVd* B??M0 fAg
L ,A.s VeNI. CInr BSiiAe wHII Fair N.. vSH
nrNlIl Aw Xkgbb Nes AtIHg
?vIe VtIeaefl
The Park Bank
*| Pittsburgh
| DO YOU EXPECT TO SUCCEED?
$ SUREThen open an account in the 
2 Park Bank.
J. S. SWARTZ, Cashier.
AAA.lJ.JLJLA.y. -*- -g- -9iyyVTVTVV
KAERCHERS DRUG STORE
*g 1g MnAiiy -NeNfIH
Drugs, Cigars, Soda Water, Stationery, Post 
Cards, Etc., Etc.
D1VMd1EDCE?TM
Full Line of Fancy Smokings
dAHg dHNaf Nes KAHIl Mig 6 DaiilSHfy DNg
Phones: Bell 1456 Schenley 
P. & A. 303 Park.
s 8BRuCE BROr. |
I Launderers, Cleaners and |
I Dyers I
? 2f pb CHIeiAe LtIeSIy Wa.haelSHfg 
 pYbQ DIee LtIeSIy VNli 2aIHiU X * BAir DrAeIlg $
I ............................8
TELL OUR ADVERTISERS YOURE FROM TECH.

---------------------------------------------------

The Largest Crowd of the Season Sees Tech go Down to Defeat
VOL. IV
(The (Tni'lau
PITTSBURG, PA., WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 1909Number 11
COLGATE RUSHES TECH LINE.
Before the largest crowd of the season Colgate 
Universitys foot-ball team overwhelmed Captain 
Hittners men, the final score being 38 to G. Heavy 
and fast, the Colgate backfield proved to be too 
much for Techs light line and ran up a total of 
nearly as many points as the eight other teams which 
we have played did the entire season. Tech gave the 
poorest exhibit of the tackling of the year, going 
high nearly every time. The offense, however, was 
of a very high order and gained ground all most at 
will when they were in possession of the ball, which, 
it must be said, was not very often. The game put 
up by the Tech team, as a whole, can not be com
pared with the game that it played earlier in the 
season.
The day was cold and the sun saw fit to hide itself 
after showing a few minutes in the first half, at ex
actly three oclock the teams lined up for the kickoff, 
Colgate defending the West goal.
The First Half.
Morris kicked off for Tech, the ball going to Collester on the 26-yard line. Collester ran the ball 
t>ack five yards before being downed. Manley made 
three more through the line. Woodman could only 
gain one yard and Manley punted to Hittner, on his 
own 40-yard line, who ran it back 9 yards.
Plick made 5 yards around the end. Robinson 
made six more through the line, but on the next
play Tech fumbled, and it was Colgates ball on her 
own 56-yard line.
Manley tore through the line for nine yards and 
then followed it with five more. Donnelley could 
only make a scant yard around Morris end. Wood
man gained three more. Colgate had a dandy onside kick and worked it next for 12 yards, the ball 
going to Keegan. Manley tried the line again, but 
only gained a yard, but more than made up for that 
by going 16 on the very next play. Tech was pen
alized five yards for offside, the ball now being Col
gates on the 10-yard line. Here the Tech defense 
took a decided brace and took the ball on downs 
on their own one-yard line.
Dolin punted 35 yards, the Colgate man being 
downed in his tracks on the lineup. Colgate worked 
the forward pass for 22 yards, the ball going from 
Collester to Lober. Connelley made seven yards 
around the end. On the next play the ball was badly 
fumbled, Collester finally getting it, carrying it over 
the line. Manley kicked an easy goal. ScoreCol
gate 6 Tech 0.
Morris kicked the ball to Woodman, on the 6-yard 
mark, who brought it back to his 25-yard line. McGough, left tackle, made ten yeards on a cross buck. 
Collester tried a quarterback run and lost five yards. 
Manley made seven on the next play and Connelley 
followed him with nine more. McGough tried his 
cross buck again, but could only gain three yards.

---------------------------------------------------

4THE TARTAN
Woodman was forced to be content with another 
three. Tech was again penalized five yards for off
side, this taking the ball to her own 50-yard line. 
On two line bucks Manley could only make a total 
of four yards, and Collester again worked his onside 
kick, Lober getting the ball and carrying it to the 21- 
yard line. Woodman carried the ball to the tenyard line. Here Tech was once again penalized for 
offside, the ball going to her 5-yard mark. Colgate 
now had three downs in which to make five yards 
and a goal, but they were unable to break through 
the Tech defense.
Tech again recovered the ball on her one-yard 
mark, Dolin at once punting out. The ball went to 
Collester on the Tech 42-yard line. Collester re
turned five yards, and on the lineup Colgate worked 
her forward pass for ten yards, the ball going from 
Collester to Lober. Connelley went just outside left 
tackle for seven yards. Tech was again penalized 
five yards for offside. Manley could only make twro 
yards and Colgates forward pass was intercepted. 
Tech now getting the ball on her 12-yard line.
Flick ran around right end for ten yeards. Robin
son could not gain and Dolin punted, the ball going 
out of bounds on the 4G-yard line.
Woodman and Manley could only make eight yards 
in two plays. Woodman, aided by splendid inter
ference, carried the ball for fifteen yards around 
left end. Connelley then jumped around the other 
end for a gain of nine yards. Woodman was thrown 
for a loss of one yard. On the next play, however, 
he was pulled, hauled, and dragged fourteen yards 
for a touchdown, Manley kicking the goal. Score 
Colgate 12, Tech 0.
Morris kicked off to McGough on his 20-yard line. 
McG-ough was downed in his tracks and McDonnell 
kicked to Coldren on the Tech 43-vard line.
Robinson made two yards through the line. Here 
Tech started to show good offensive work. Flick 
carried the ball for eight yards. Hittner followed 
with five more. Robinson plunged through the line 
for a gain of 12 yards. Flick followed him with eight 
more around right end. Hittner failed to gain 
around Lobers wing. Robinson'broke through for 
three yards. Coldren worked the quarterback run 
for a gain of five yards. Tech here tried her onside 
kick, but lost the ball by the operation.
Woodman gained nine yards and Connelly five 
more. Woodman chased around the end for twelve 
yards. Collester then tried his quarterback run 
and made six yards. Manley was pulled through 
center for four yards. Woodman, aided by his inter
ference, broke through Techs first and secondary 
defense, Hittner downing him after he had gained 
22 yards. The next five plays carried the ball to 
Techs eight-yard line. Woodman made three yards 
on a line plunge. Manley could not gain at all. Con
nelley was tried and met with little better success, 
gaining a scant two yards. It was Techs ball on her 
two-yard line. For the third time this half the Tech 
defense had taken the ball away from Colgate within 
the five-yard mark.
Dolin kicked out to Manley on the 30-yard line. 
Manley signaled a free catch and kicked an easy 
goal from placement, adding three points to Col
gates score. ScoreColgate 15, Tech 0.
Hittner kicked off of Tech to Connelley, on the
9-yard line. Connelley returned the ball thirteen 
yards before being downed. Manley ploughed 
through the line for eleven yards and Connelley fol
lowed with six more around the end. Woodman 
then made three yards. He followed this with two 
end runs, the first gaining him two yards and the 
second twelve. Manley was shot through the line 
for five yards and Connelley went around the end for 
another five, making it first down. Manley failed 
to gain, as did Woodman on the play following. 
Blair was here sent in Lloyds place. Manley dropped 
back and tried a drop kick from the 35-yard line, 
the ball just missing the post.
Dolin kicked just over the center of the field, Col
lester returning the punt. Colgate was penalized 15 
yards. Collester worked, the forward pass for 15 
yards, Lober receiving the ball. An onside kick was 
tried, but Tech recovered. Hittner gained five yards 
and time was called, the ball being in possession of 
Tech on her own 38-yard line.
Between the Halves.
As soon as the team was well off the field, Cheer 
Leader Light started what will probably be the last 
snake dance of the year. Winding in and out around 
the field, a huge C was was formed. Cheers were 
then given. Colgate, not to be outdone, also had a 
snake dance, nine faithful alumni joining. As they 
passed the rooting section they were heartily cheered 
by the Tech men.
The Second Half.
With Hatcher replacing Morris at left end, Tech 
received the kickoff, Coldren getting the ball and re
turning 23 yards before being tackled. Marshall 
made five yards on a line plunge. Hatcher was 
tried, but could only go two: yards before being 
downed. Dolin kicked to Colgate's 32-yard line, Col
lester returning 11 yards. Connelley tried going 
around right end with poor success, gaining only one 
yard. Woodman then tried the other end and gained 
three yards. Manley made first down. Connelley 
gained ten yards around Techs left end, Woodman 
following him with five around the right wing. -Man
ley kicked the line for four more and Woodman 
skirted right end for another five. Manley was 
again sent through the line, but struck a snag, the 
ball being played from exactly the same place on 
the next lineup. Woodman failed to gain more than 
a bare yard. On the next play, however, the Colgate 
backfield pulled and dragged the big halfback for a 
15-yard gain on a fake kick formation. The ground 
gained by the Colgate backs after being tackled was 
remarkable, due to the facts that Tech was tackling 
high and that the whole Colgate team worked to
gether in assisting the runner as much as was pos
sible. Woodman was again used, but failed to gain. 
Manley bucked the line with the same result. Tech

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN5
was here penalized, the ball going to the two-yard 
line, from which point Woodman carried it over the 
goal on the next play. Manley missed an easy goal. 
ScoreColgate 20, Tech 0.
Hittner kicked off to Woodman on the 23-yard line, 
Woodman returning the ball three yards before 
being downed. On the next play he could not gain, 
however. Manley then bored through tackle for 
five yards and then followed it with five more on the 
other side. Woodman made three around the end 
and Connelley carried the ball 14 yards around 
Techs left end. On the two plays Manley failed 
to gain more than four yards, and Connelley could 
not gain at all, Tech taking the ball on her 52-yard 
line.
Peaches Coldren, Techs Star Quarterback, who 
played his last foot-ball game for Tech 
on Thanksgiving.
On a formation, Tech lost two' yards. Hittner 
then got away for 25 yards around left end, his inter
ference being perfect. Flick followed his Captains 
lead and made 20 yards around the opposite end. 
From the 12-yard line Hittner took it over for Techs 
lonely score. In four downs she had made 60 yards. 
Hittner kicked a comparatively easy goal. Score 
Colgate 20, Tech 6.
On the lineup, Hittner kicked to Collester on the
10-yard line, Collester Returning 14 yards before 
being downed. Manley was thrown for a one-yard 
loss. Manley then kicked to Coldren on his 48-yard 
line, Peaches returning 12 yards. Hittner made 
three yards on an end run, while Robinson failed to 
gain anything through Colgates line. Tech tried her 
onside kick, a Colgate man receiving the ball.
Manley made four yards through the line. Wood
man broke through both lines of defense for a gain 
of 38 yards. He at once tried to repeat, but could 
only make six yards. Woodman followed him with 
ten more, making it first down on Techs 8-yard line. 
Manley ploughed through the line for five yards. 
Again he bucked the line, crossing the goal this 
time. He kicked the goal. ScoreColgate 26, 
Tech 6.
Hittner kicked to Hollenbeck on the twenty-yard 
line. McCorkle took Dolins place on right end and 
Colgate sent Campbell in to take Connelleys place 
at left half. Woodman made six yards and Manley 
kicked to Coldren on Tech's 40-yard line. Tech at 
once fumbled the ball and Colgate recovered. Manley 
made six yards through the line. Woodman made 
12 yards in two downs. Techs line held Manley for 
twcy downs and he dropped back to try a drop kick 
from the 35-yard line. The ball went wild by two 
yards.
Tech then put the ball in play on the 25-yard line, 
Flick making two yards. Hittner then made nine 
yards, and first down, through the line. It was all 
wasted, however, as on the next play Tech fumbled,* 
Colgate getting the ball on Techs 36-yard mark. 
Woodman made four yards around the end and Man
ley followed him with two more through the line. 
Collester then made a beautiful onside kick to Lober, 
who trotted across the goal line for a touchdown. 
Manley kicked the goal. ScoreColgate 32, Tech 6.
Hittner booted the ball to Collester on the 5-yard 
line at the kickoff, the Colgate man returning nearly 
30 yards before being downed. Collester tried a 
forward pass to Anderson, but a Tech man inter
cepted the ball on his 46-yard line.
Robinson made seven yards on a cross buck. Hitt
ner made five more and first down. Robinson again 
bucked the line, this time for a gain of only three 
yards. Tech tried her forward pass, but Woodman 
intercepted it.
Manley made eight yards on a line plunge. Col
gate was penalized 15 yards, but Collester made it 
up by a quarterback run of 21 yards. Manley gained 
five yards on a line buck around the end. Collester 
then got off a long forward pass to Lober, who took 
the ball over the line for the last touchdown of the 
game. Manley again kicked the goal. ScoreCol
gate 38, Tech 6.
Hittner kicked off to Woodman, who returned 15 
yards. Colgate kicked to Coldren on the 40-yard 
line, and Coldren returned the ball 15 yards before 
being downed. Robinson could not gain and an on
side kick went wild, a Colgate man getting the ball

---------------------------------------------------

6THE TARTAN
on his 42-yard line.Colgateat once kicked again,
Hittner receiving theball onhis25-yard line, and
returning it 20 yardsbefore beingdowned. Robinson gained four yards, but Hittnerfailed to gain at
all, and had to punt, Collester receiving the ball on
his 30-yard line. Hereturnedit 115 yards. Colgate
tried a forward pass, but was penalized, the ball
being brought backto the45-yard line. Colgate
kicked and before theteams couldline up time was
called, Tech having the ball on her 35-yard line.
The line-up: 
Colgate36.Tech6.
Anderson ........................ . L. E. ..
MeGough ....................... .L. T...
MacDonnell (Capt.). .. .L. G.. .
Hollenbeck ..................... . ..C... .
Keegan ............................ -R.G..
Thurker ............................R. T.. ............... Marshal]
Lober ................................R. E.. ..................... Dolin
Collester .......................... .Q. B. .
Connelley .......................L. H. B..................... Flick
Woodman ........................R. H. B.. Hittner (Capt.)
Manley ............................ ..F. B. .
SubstitutionsMcCorkle for Dolin, Hatcher for 
Morris, Blair for Lloyd, Smith for Anderson, Dockstader for MeGough, Blanchard for Keegan, Camp
bell for Connelley.
TouchdownsWoodman 2, Lober 2, Manley, Col
lester, Hittner.
Goals from TouchdownsManley 5, Hittner.
Goal from FieldManley.
RefereeHarry Fry, Fort Pitt Athletic Club.
UmpireButler, of Brown.
Field JudgeRafferty, of Princeton.
Head LinesmanReed, of Lehigh.
Time of Halves30 minutes each.
SOPOHOMORE 1912.
Prof. CollitteHerr Hecker, wier viele eier hot 
diese Henne legte?
HeckerDer Henne legteererer
Prof. CollitteNo, Die Henne shes a she.
Prof. Stevens in ehem. resitationMr. Schmucker, 
what do they put in plaster paris to make it harden? 
SchmuckerAirer I mean hair.
Decker and a few Seniors spent Thanksgiving hunt
ing big game down on the farm. Decker reports great 
luck but the Seniors said Deck killed a sparrow and 
carried it all day, thinking it a quail.
The Soph members of the Mho Club are expected 
to be present at the first dance of the season which 
is an excellent opportunity to become acquainted 
with the fellow membersand girl friends.
Friends and alumni of Haverford College have 
raised a fund of $100,000 for pensioning old profes
sors.
THE SCORES OF THE THANKSGIVING DAY 
GAMES.
Penn State 5, Pittsburgh 0.
W. & J. 18, West Virginia 5.
Pennsylvania 17, Cornell 6.
Lafayette 5, Dickinson 0.
Bucknell 12, George Washington 6.
Carlisle Indians 32, St. Louis 0.
Haskel Indians 16, Nebraska 5.
Notre Dame 0, Marquette 0.
Suwanee 16, Vanderbit 5.
Auburn 16, Georgia 5.
Drake 11, Ames 0.
Virginia Poly 19, A. & M. College 6.
Fordham 5, Syracuse 5.
Missouri 5, Kansas 5.
Denver 29, Colorado 6.
Butler 12, Wabash 0.
Marietta 34, Denniston 0.
Kentucky State 15, Central 6.
Davidson 8, Virginia Military 0.
Arkansas 34, Washington 0.
Howard 11, Georgetown (Ky.) 0.
Tennessee 11, Transylvania 0.
Southwestern of Texas 18, Tulane 0.
Georgia Tech 29, Clemson 3.
F. & M. 16, Gettysburg 3.
Lehigh 0, Wilkes-Barre H. S. 0.
Rose Polytech 57, Franklin 17.
Waynesburg 16, Muskingum 0.
Mt. Union 5, Westminster 0.
Ohio State 22, Kenyon 0.
Buchtel 24, Bethany 0.
Randolph-Macon 29, Richmond 3.
William and Mary 15, Hampden Sydney 8.
She dropped her glove,
He raised his lid,
And picked it up
With, Oh, you kid,
How dare you, sir?
He smiled at her
Excuse me, miss,
Its just like this,
I meant the glove.
The Fulcrum.
I hereby surrender my loan of $.
:c:r:r:reo:r:r:r:r:r:vr:v:ysc:r:.*:r:ec:rr:r0*0csy::\s*:r: j5 Pj5j5*?j5j5j6 4* 
f*
** Vj5 j54* 4*t 4* f............................................................ 4*4* 44* 4*4*
to the Carnegie Tech Athletic Association,
making it non-collectable.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
THE COLGATE-TECH GAME DIAGRAMED.
In the cuts given below every play made in the 
Colgate-Tech game on Thanksgiving day is shown. 
To read the diagram begin at the top and work down 
the page, following the path of the ball as indicated
by the different lines. For the meaning of the lines 
used see the bottom of the first cut. The player 
that carried the ball is indicated by the letters that 
denote his position
/I*c<\----------- _
Venal ty M M M M M
R.ADVET-d TaSS  M M I M

---------------------------------------------------

8THE TARTAN
THE TARTAN
DS.alrIs WIIh.U GSHaef irI MnrAA. ?INH U MiS
sIeil Aw dNHeIfaI CInreanN. MnrAA.ly DaiilSHfy DNg
Entered at the Pittsburgh post office as second class matter
Lowell W. Nicols, 11Editor-in-Chief.
Donald D Mitchell Athletic Editor.
Eugene B. TaggartAssociate Editor 
Josephine Mandeville, 10, M. M. C. S.As
sociate Editor.
Edith Scott Glenn, 10, M. M. C. S.Assistant. 
H. J. McCorkle, 11Business Manager.
Subscription Rates
Yearly ...............................................................  $2.00
Single CcJpy ..................................................110 Cents
Student Raites
Yearly .............................................................. $1.00
Single Copy........................................................ 5 Cents
For Advertising Rates, address the Business Manager, care 
Carnegie Technical Schools.
The Tartan will print any communications of 
value relative to the affairs of Tech. All such must 
bo signed by the writer as a sign of good faith. The 
name will be withheld upon request. The Tartan 
wilt not be responsible for any opinions that may 
appear other than those of its staff.
EDITORIAL
WHAT DID YOU THINK OF IT?
',Ve have been told by a great many of our readers 
that the issue of last week was the best ever and 
to keep it up. For a number of reasons we are very 
glad to hear it. It is so seldom that anyone has 
anything to say other than a few pasing remarks 
on our general rottenness, that it was a positive 
relief to have a change of subject. We dont mind 
being told how rotten the paper may be, so long as 
we hear why such is the case and how the defect 
may be remedied. In fact, we often go out of our 
way just to get a word or two on the subject. This 
time they said it was to their liking, and how long 
were we going to keep it up. Of course, there are 
people about, who would want to know why we did 
not use flexible leather if we came out bound in 
morocco, but taking it all in all the census of opin
ion was favorable to our venture. We will, there
fore, try to keep it up.
WE APOLOGISE.
Many complaints have been heard during the past 
few weeks on the dearth of numbers of The Tar
tan at the time it first comes out. The man we 
have going the rounds attends classes like all of the 
rest of us, and is liable to disappear for a few hours 
at a time. Last year the experiment of putting not 
only the current issue, but a file of back numbers 
on sale at the Store Room in the Trade building 
was tried. The object was that since the Store Room 
is meant to be a convenience to the student body 
and nothing else, it would be more so if the papers 
could be bought there at any time. After a month 
had gone by, it was plain to be seen that our ideas 
of what constituted a convenience to the student 
body did not coincide with those of the ones in 
charge. Many persons were told that no Tartans 
could be had there and that they had no time to 
monkey with it. As a consequence the copies stored 
there were withdrawn and we went back to our 
old way, which we confess is not satisfactory. Until 
we have an office of our own or can make arrange
ments in some other way, we will have to beg your 
forgiveness.
THE FOOTBALL BANQUET.
As stated in another part of this issue, the foot
ball team is to hold a banquet on Saturday night. 
The banquet will be open to students upon the pay
ment of enough to cover the cost of the plate. This 
will probably be the last time the football team of
1909- will be together ars a football team, and it will 
be the last chance that the students will have of 
showing the team how much they appreciate their 
wonderful work in the season just past.
Let every loyal son of Tech turn out and treat the 
team as they surely deserve to be treated. Come out, 
get a little spirit into you, come out and show Cap
tain Hittner and his men that you realize and are 
grateful for their herculean labors for Tech.
THE CURTAIN.
With the Colgate game last Thursday the football 
season of 1909 came to a close. While the last game 
was in the nature of a disappointment, the rooters 
can look back over the seasons record with just 
pride. It has been the greatest football season that 
we have ever had in our short history and every one 
who has had a hand in it in any way whatsoever 
will remember that fact until the end of his days.
To have vain regrets over a thing past.is worse 
than useless; it is idiotic. Look forward to next year, 
and the next,- and the next. See what you will see 
there. There will be no place for regret. Look into 
the future and be content.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANy
WHITE FRIARS SNORING.
If our Dramatic organization was snoozing last 
week, it is safe to say at the present time, that it is 
now in the midst of a full-grown siesta. We men
tioned the fact that no notices for a previous meet
ing had been sent out, and in consequence no quor
um could be had to transact any business, but scarcely 
thought that the same thing would occur less than a 
week later. We regret very much the provocation 
for any harsh or unkind remarks concerning the 
management of such a truly representative student 
activity as the White Friars, but to say the least, it 
looks as if the Club would be materially benefitted 
by the resignation of some of its non-active officers. 
The Glee Club have been right on the job, and its 
management, wide-awake and active, which is more 
than anyone can say of the White Friars, and of 
the two the Friars have the more work to do. We 
would remind the guilty ones that The Tartan will 
be the first to make favorable comment when it is 
deserved.
GLEE CLUB.
The management of the Glee Club have been the 
busiest set about the schools for the past few weeks. 
Manager King and assistant manager Goettmen have 
been booking dates for the trip of the club. The 
members are to be congratulated on the fine showing 
made for so early in the year. They expect to leave 
Pittsburg on Monday, December 27th, and on Tues
day night will be at Niles; Wednesday, Sharon; 
Thursday, Mercer; Friday night and Saturday after
noon, Grove City, and the following Monday at either 
New Castle, Youngstown or Warren. The dates are 
arranged and the contracts have only to be signed 
to make it a sure thing. It will be the longest and 
best trip ever taken by any student activity, and 
speaks volumes for the activity of the management.
Hereafter the Mandolin Club will have extra re
hearsals every Wednesday night at 7.30, and the 
Glee Club on Thursday night at the same hour. The 
new music ordered some time ago has arrived, and 
the clubs are working on it with a vim, in prepara
tion for their trip. The papers have been giving 
the clubs some very favorable comment based on 
the showing made at rehearsals.
I PERTINENT |
! uND I
! IMPERTINENT I
Buck Thompson at the Minstrel ShowIts easy 
to see that none of those fellows ever saw a real 
nigger swing a razor.
Adjusting levels is one of the fine arts now being 
practiced by the Civils.
Allowelt runs to short ones, its plain to be seen.
Prof. FernekesWell, now as I have a little time 
I will read my monthly comic papers. (Schultzs 
examination papers.)
A Tennessee minister says that hell is a place of 
strong drink, tobacco, baseball, theaters and peek-aboo shirt waists. Nothing the matter with that for 
a future residence.The Fulcrum.
1 IMPORTANT MEETING
[jD of the
[j BOARD OF CONTROL
g On Wednesday Night at 7.30 Oclock.
Every member out.
SMSlSMS@M3I3M3M5JSJSI3J5ISM313M3J3J3M3j3M315J3MSlc!J
ANNUAL FOOTBALL BANQUET.
The annual banquet given in honor of the football 
team will be held at the Rittenhouse on Saturday, 
December 4th, at 8 P. M. All members of the faculty 
and student body are invited to be present, the tax 
being $1.25 per plate. It has been requested that 
all who are going should make the fact known to the 
committee in charge as soon as possible. This is 
the only affair of its kind to be held at any time dur
ing the year, and it is hoped many will attend.
-------HIGH LOW-------
Jack and the Game]
Have you seen it? 3 Buttons, Tan and 
Black
STOEBENERS
6227 Penn FurT FND6222 FIankbtewn
TBLL OUR ADVERTISERS YOURE FROM TECH.

---------------------------------------------------

10THE TARTAN
RESOURCES OVER ONE MILLION DOLLARS 
DEPOSITS OVER SEVEN HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS 
CAPITAL AND SURPLUS OVER THREE HUNDRED AND SIXTY THOUSAND DOLLARS 
A BANK THAT IS STRONG IN ASSETS, IN MEN, IN COURTESY
OuKLuND ruVINGr uND TRUrT COMPuNY
IROQUOIS BLOCK.
LETS GO HUNTIN.
Perchance, gentle reader, ye may be ignorant of 
the fact, that on the frosty morn of November 26, 
there hied hence from the Smoky City a brave and 
stalwart band of Tech students, armed to the teeth, 
with various and ancient weapons to do battle unto 
the agile and blithesome rabbits, which abound (?) 
in a vicinity continguous to this neck of the woods.
Tis sad but a fact, they went. Bruiser Glasser, 
To Wasson, Silver Top Abbott, Predie Stevenson, 
King of Techmont, and others whom delicacy for
bids our mentioning, on the grounds that they might 
see fit to lick ye author, for mentioning their names 
in connection with the above bunch of bloodthirsty 
marauders. Yes. They went, armed with weapons 
which would have made the mighty Theodore gnash 
his teeth with rage, could he have but seen the array 
of horse pistols, slide rules, honitzers, sling shots, 
rifles, bean blowers and other instruments calculated 
to strike terror to the hearts of any and all game 
in Western Pennsylvania.
To his royal highnessTo Wassonmust be given 
the honor of being the first man to introduce wooden 
bullets into a Springfield rifle, and incidentally into a 
buck rabbit. In passing it may be said that a certain 
tough and dignified rabbit, having been subjected to 
this mode of treatment, became highly incensed and 
taking Tos gun away from him, caused To to make 
the run of his life.
Bruiser Glasser, and King Fredie, joining forces, 
and by dint of much persuasion, a la the honitzer, 
did feloniously take a rabbits foot away from an old 
and decrepit negro. The purpose of th'is assault
being to obtain evidence to offer in support of their 
joint contribution to the Annaias Club. Silver 
Abbott reports having twisted the head off an owl 
by looking the owl in the eye and then walking 
around the tree, the said owl following Silver with 
his eyes and ultimately twisting his head off. Silver 
said it just like that and as his head was still doing 
duty as a dome of thought we can substantiate the 
fact that it wasnt Silvers head, so it must have 
been the owls. Honi soit qui mal y pluse.
Should any one wish to put his life in jeopardy, 
or end his chances of enjoying a pleasant winter let 
him inquire of the dountlees band of near hunters, 
the following question: Whats the price of rabbits in 
the market?
THE CLUB HCUSE COMMITTEE.
As we go to press the committee appoint p-; : > lookafter the arranging of affairs in conri^r^  s 11 the 
Club House in the rear of the Trade :;-1 H.r,, are 
holding a meeting for the purpose of disposing of 
the privileges of the house. The committee are rep
resentative of the different schools, and whatever 
disposition they make will undoubtedly be to the 
best interests of the majority of the students.
+ o MHO CLUB DANCEI 8
 DECEMBER 3, 1909 S
$ 8
 SEE COMMITTEE $
fr it
A FAMOUS NEW YORK HATTER MAKES
Fashionable Caps, Soft Hats, Derbies and Silk and Opera 
Hats of the best American and European brands.
Caps at 50c, $1 and $1.50. Soft Hats and Derbies $2.00 
to $6.00. Silk and Opera Hats $5 to $8.
tto etting
,,, \Kawir Nes WU.aI MItIeir Nes MairwaI.s . 
TELL OUR ADVERTISERS YOURE FROM TECH.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN11
INTERCOLLEGIATE NEWS.
Thirty-five students at the University of Washing
ton attempted to haze a large Freshman from Japan 
and as a result many of them were unable to attend 
classes for several days.
A married students club was recently organized 
at the University of Indiana.
Captains of all teams at the University of Iowa will 
get a star in addition to their letter. The number 
of years a man has played will be indicated by bands 
on the arm of his sweater.
There is a movement on foot at Chicago to have 
every undergraduate wear the official C as a means 
of identifying its members.
Pennsylvania students are asking for the estab
lishment of a university bank.
The University of Kansas athletic association has 
sold 1500 season tickets this fall, representing 85 
per cent, of the total enrollment.
The students of the University of Washington pub
lish a daily the subscription price of which is in
cluded in the registration fee.
The International Club, a social organization of 
students of the University of Chicago, has recently 
elected officers for the ensuing year, each one being 
a native of a different foreign country. The presi
dent is a Chinese, the Vice-President a Filipino, the 
Recording Secretary a Canadian, the Secretary a 
Japanese, and the Treasurer a Spaniard.
A Russian undergraduate at the University of Mis
souri speaks six languages, all of which he learned 
in three months. He came from Wolien a month 
ago.
George Ade has written a new play for the Purdue 
Harlequin club and has purchased a carload of scen
ery to aid the students in the production. Music 
for the play, which is entitled The City Chap, has 
been written by Benjamin Hapgood Burt, of New. 
York. The players will be coached by George Her
bert.
The Dramatic club at Northwestern will present 
You Can Never Tell, by Bernard Shaw, as its an
nual winter play.
At Lehigh aj prize of $50 will be given to the stu
dent writing the best book for the annual production 
of the Mustard and Cheese. Certain requirements 
as to the length, time, characters, etc., of the play 
must be fulfilled.
 8
ji If you want to be well drest let us be your 
52 loggers 0
g SOCIETY BRAND SUITS & OVERCOATS g
 $20.  $22.50  $25.  $28.  $30. O
Stetson, and Crofut-Knapp Hats$3. and $4.
I MclLWfllNES
434 WOOD STREET 
tt 509 MARKET STREET
n 542 LIBERTY AVENUE
Swell HaberdasheryEvery Day Prices
5sttssissstt5tt55tta5tt5ss5ss50ssttttstte0
.Hr&I
i
J
-tf.
S LXNBO$S
 DXNNING XNXD$MY
COR CRAIG AND FORBES STREETS 
  PITTSBURG, PA.
$ Bell Phone 9123-R Schenley.
 CLASSES TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY AND
* SATURDAY
^ Private Lessons Daily
*wVwTyTWWTyTWTyWvMTWTyTWTvwwi
CuMPUr NOTEr
anN ReceINb em Cellege Expenbe 
can be kept with eabe in a
McCLOYr
Md*??2 MR. d?22V,V 
V&DVTMV B??
Enough pages to last throughout a 
four years' college course 
Green Velum de l,uxe Binding
LEAF 8^ X II
$1 per copy. $1.25 post-paid everywhere.
McCLOYS Headquarters for School Supplies. 
642-4-6 LIB$RTY XV$.
X5c TheLa Kzio-w
that we print more books than any firm
in the East End ?.................................
X> "2o'D. Knew
that our Programs, Topic Cards and Leaflets elicit the admiration oflovers of Fine
Printing ?.............................................
X>0 "Z"o-U. ^33.0W
that we are prompt, and that an order 
for a dollar receives as much care and at
tention as one for a hundred dollars? . 
If you are fastidious, if you require 
prompt and efficient service, come to .
3.s EITSCHZE, 
6VV7*6VVo KiIkweeN rtIeet
IST HT YT McCorkle, Mgr., Tartan, l!> 
our representative at Tech.
Bell Phones86 and 9216 Hiland
TELL OUR ADVERTISERS YOURE FROM TECH.

---------------------------------------------------

12THE TARTAN
I :e=>_ ltjidebxjehl I\ soilnt 
g PENN AND FRANKSTOWN AVE., E. E. *
* The New CIeatien meI Men %
8  TAN VIKING CALF Button and Blucher %
| $4.00 and $5.00 the pair I
M. M. C. r.
The Library.
The three short days of school preceding the 
Thanksgiving recess are memorable merely for their 
inconsequence. Nobody thought it worth while to 
waste any energy, knowing that every bit was need
ed for a good time during the holidays. The doings 
of the week can be crowded into a nut-shell.
Monday, the Seniors selected their Class pin, and 
immediately felt a great load lifted from their shoul
ders. The question of pins has wavered and hung 
in mid-air for weeks, and now that it has come to a 
decision everybody is satisfied. It wont be long 
before the Seniors can be spotted by their little gold 
pins.
There was a meeting of the caste on Tuesday for 
the purpose of working out the play on the stage.
The girls will have to work very hard to be able to 
present the play on scheduled time (December 17th), 
but they can do it if they will. Real rehearsals be
gin this week, and it is up to every girl to do her 
part and not retard the progress of the others.
It is needless to say that everybody was disap
pointed about the dance which was to have taken 
place on Wednesday afternoon. As a whole, the 
school bore it very well, and even if the girls were 
distressed over it, they accepted the inevitable with 
brave faces.
Everybody, of course, enjoyed the short vacation 
just passed, and it is hoped that the work now will 
be all the better after the rest.
The students of the M. M. C. S, are very much ex
cited about the great favor shown them by Mr. Emil 
Paur, the Director of the Pittsburgh Orchestra.
Mr. Paur has composed a charming Gavotte for 
the girls. It is called Les fillettes gracieuses (the 
graceful damsels), and is to be danced in public for 
the first time at the Senior Ball. The students are 
debating as to which is the greater favor: the work 
of the composition itself or the complimentary title 
which heads it. But of one thing Mr. Paur may be 
assured: that the fillettes gracieuses will do their 
best to prove their right to the title, and so appre
ciate Mr. Paurs kindness to them.
TELL OUR ADVERTISERS
The room was dimly lighted and the souls of the 
faded portraits on the wall seemed hovering about 
in the duskiness.
From my chair by the fire I could see the velvet 
gowned ladies and the stately gentlemen moving 
about, their bright costumes thrown into strong re
lief by the dark walls and quaint old furniture.
The walls were lined with book-shelves, and from 
these one old gentleman selected a ponderous vol
ume, and, settling himself in a great easy chair, was 
soon oblivious to his surroundings. The others fol
lowed his example, for time hung heavily upon their 
hands, so now nothing could be heard but the rust
ling of the pages.
Soft, sad strains of music came floating to my ear, 
and I turned to see a young girl seated before a 
spinet in the far corner of the room, her fingers 
wandering aimlessly over the keys and her eyes 
looking out far, oh, ever so far, into the moonlight.
All at once she commenced to fade from my sight; 
the music died away and I was left sitting in the 
old-fashioned library, alone with the faded portraits 
and my memory.
Lauretta Kemple, 11.
The Sewing Room.
No room is quite so popular 
As the one in which we sew;
Plebes, Juniors, Seniors, Faculty,
All to it come and go.
But you wouldnt wonder if you knew 
The fine things there they see,
From dancing skirts to evening gowns, 
None finer can there be.
You wouldnt think to see the gowns, 
Just perfect as to lines,
That we poor souls to get the iron, 
Have had to serve our time.
Some girls will stand all afternoon 
To press a single plait,
And if you for the iron should beg,
A clock is put at your feet.
But now, alas! the gown is done,
And really it looks fine;
And we forget that we have stood 
For hours, almost, in line.
YOURE FROM TECH.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN13
(ra[BM3BiSMSI3M3iaMSMafaiMBI3i3MB
I MINrTREL rHOW
ciJaiSi5MSMSiaJ3Mai3M3M3MJSlSi3JSMaaM3M2JgiBJajgiaigj^
When the ai rangements for the Applied Design 
Minstrel Show were first made no one had the slight
est idea that the affair would assume the propor
tions of the full-fledged article. In order to have 
a stage of ample dimensions, the tables used by the 
Architects were brought up into the Decorators 
and Illustrators quarters and covered with a layer 
of boards with matting over all. Scenery was bor
rowed from one of the lode halls of Allegheny and 
hung in place from the steel beams of the roof 
trusses. Footlights were in place with tin shields 
as reflectors and bunch lights placed in the wings 
gave the effect of a really and truly theatre. The 
completeness of everything was the wonder of the 
spectators who were aware of the fact that it all 
had been gotten up in two weeks time. Thanks 
are due to Mr. Hewlett for his assistance rendered 
in so many ways, and to Mr. Pfouts, of the Pattern 
Shop, and Mr. Calderwood, of the Electric Wiring 
Department, for time and advice pertaining to the 
carpenter and electric work. Gilg, of the Decora
tors, performed on the piano, and for his work at 
the final show and during rehearsals deserves much 
of the credit.
With a well-filled hall awaiting the beginning of 
the performance, the Minstrel Show early bid fair 
to be the success it later proved to be. About 300 
were in their seats when the inimitable Red Jones 
mounted the stage and delivered the opening speel. 
From the time of the entrance of the foot-ball team 
to their seats of honor in the front of the audience, 
to the last number on the program, everything went 
off in the finished manner of a careful production. 
The show was a credit to everyone having anything 
to do with its presentation. The Grand Introductory 
Overture started the gallop of joke and song. Decker 
and Jones, as end men, at once attracted attention 
by the loudness of their costumes and their funny 
antics while Sheppard and Alison were not far be
hind. As James, the middle-man, would propound 
one of the queries to his side partners, the mem
bers of the faculty present would be seen to give the 
closest attention, for many of the hits hit. One of 
the best specialities was the dance given by Fleming 
and Moss from last years production of the White 
Friars. Red Jones and McCarthy interrupted with 
their famous Salvation Army. stunt seen before at 
the last Patrons dinner. Sheppards song, Thats 
a Plenty, was well received. Hodgdon and Moss 
had the audience going with their clever team work; 
the song, Take Me Up With You Dearie, as sung 
in the Folies of 1908, was one of the real hits of the 
evening. The banjo solo and the encore played by 
Mr. Grimes, who coached much of the show, was 
the finest piece of work ever heard here. Pete 
Sterling, as a dusky Salome, created quite a sensa
tion.
^ne" Be st Store
FORBES and ATWOOD ST.
OAKLAND
A New Shirts65 Styles$1.50 Each V
T New Neckwearall the Late Effects50^ Each O
g TECH PENNANTS 2
O Tech Plaid by the Yard, the Genuine Plaid 4,
+ HEEREN BROS. & CO. *
g. Manufacturers of .j.
 FRATERNITY, CLASS AND SCHOOL PINS ||
t PENN AVENUE AND EIGHT STREET *
SIPES JAPAN OIL
Superior to Linseed Oil for all kinds of Painting 
JAMES B. SIPE & CO.
North Side, Pittsburg, Pa.
FENCING
S CLASSES OR INDIVIDUAL INSTRUCTION

 Dr. H. Schapper, School of Applied Design.
For information and rates apply.
O
Jones and Sheppard once more appeared in a musi
cal ditty and did a fake bit of verse making to per
fection. After a few more jokes and near-jokes, 
Einstein ripped off some rag-time in good style and 
then Mr. Rose Stellar put us all to shame by singing 
in truly artistic fashion, Louisiana Lizabeth. The 
Delecetessen Quartette composed of Hodgdon, Rigaumont, King, and Rose delighted the audience by their 
musical hash and responded to several well-earned 
encores.
The last event on the program was the comedy 
skit given by a dusky troupe of artists, and entitled, 
A Wylie Avenue Scandalanza. The eight mem
bers of the all-star cast did themselves proud. As a 
grand finale, the entire company rendered some 
choice ditties, and the Applied Design Minstrel Show 
passed into history. Quite a neat sum was realized 
for the benefit of the foot-ball team.
Design Girls Organize.
The girls of the School of Applied Design met 
recently and organized a club to be known as the 
Tech Design Club. The following officers were elect
ed for the first term: President, Sue Watson; vice 
president, Mabel Cowan; treasurer, Mary Williams; 
secretary, Virginia Porter.
TELL OUR ADVERTISERS YOURE FROM TECH.

---------------------------------------------------

14THE TARTAN
SECOND YEAR INDUSTRIALS.
Little Phrases we often hear.
Come in and see me.Dean Connelley.
Hello, men.Mr. Day.
Come on, John, get to work.Mr. Smith (Pat
tern Shop).
What do you mean by sitting on this bench? 
Mr. Hamilton.
Yes, thats it, thats it.Mr. Burns.
Did he slip or did some push him?Mr. Pfouts.
Now is that clear to everybody?Mr. Schu
macher.
Wheres Dixon?Mr. Hepburn.
Yes, thats line; but just straighten it up a little. 
Mr. Taylor.
What is your number?Mr. White (Machine 
Shop).
That will be all for today.Mr. Brown (Draw
ing).
A Saturday night perpendicular is oblique. 
Mr. Morris."
Has any one seen Rinaman?Mr. Dorwaler.
Now this is merely a business proposition. 
Mr. Peters.
Now you fellows cut that sand throwing.Mr. 
Dosey.
Perhaps I didnt give that to you.Mr. Leighou.
Boys, please come up to the blackboard a min
ute.Mr. Leeds.
Mr. HepburnName the different fits.
MitchellShrink, Drive, Press, Running, Assem
bling, and Misfit.
Williams (in Mech.)It that the diameter of a 
square bolt?
Beck (proving equal circles)Why, they coin
cide because they are equal, and are equal, because 
they coincide. Why, therefore, they are equal.
SIGN PAINTERS.
The Sign Painters of the School for Apprentices 
and Journeymen, anounce the first smoker of the 
year for Friday evening, December 3rd, in the Sign 
Loft, No. 310 Trade Building.
It is reported that Dayton has an attraction of some 
Tdnd in one of the suburbs on Wednesday evenings. 
It might be remarked that Mr. Otterson is marking 
.up all of the absentees.
B Class would like to know what Dixon was dream
ing about when he went to sleep in Chemistry Class.
The A Class are looking for a .Stone crusher.
To VisitorsDont touch the paint. It might stick 
to the fingers.
House is our reporter, but the roof fell in and 
he neglected to perform his duty.
Mr. Otterson wants a dog. He says any old kind 
will do so long as he barks.
Dealers In
BUTTER, EGGS. POULTRY, CHEESE, TEA AND 
COFFEE
3714 FORB$S STR$$TBell Phone 1933-R Schenley 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXSXXXXXXXXXXX's
The Standard of Excellence
MacDenalNb
Candies and Ice Cream Soda ..Dainty Lunch 
Tables for Ice CreamFancy BoxesBaskets 
Favors, Etc.
208 SIXTH ST. PITTSBURG, PA.
DRAWINGAND
g ARTISTS MATERIALS
% Kurtz, Langbein & Swartz
& 606 Wood St. Tel. Grant 279.
PvTyWwTyTyTWWwwvTVTWwWWTyTWTW
ss Well Pressed is Well Dressed
LIBERTY CLEANING & PRESSING CO.
301 South Craig Street
I R. W. MEDICK I
& CHOICEHOME DRESSED 
POULTRY
MEATS AND
Both Phones3804 Forbes Streeta
GOOD THINGS TO EAT
at the Pure Food Stores ofGEO. K. STEVENSON & CO.
0 Sixth Avenue Higland and Center 
Down Town East End
-O*O*04<^*0*04<^01<*0404<>*0*0I*'
s The Schenley Farms
THE GARDEN SPOT OF PITTSBURGH
The place to live for convenience, pleasure and ... 
S) profit. $
HOTEL SCHENLEY Pittsburgh, Pa.
CLUB DINNER BANQUETS AND
DANCES.~ *Phone 248 Schenley. %
TELL OUR ADVERTISERS YOURE FROM TECH.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN16
HOCKEY
With football a thing of the past, hockey Is begining to take its place upon the boards. We have 
been hearing vague rumors as to the forming of 
wonderful leagues, each rumor using a different set 
em colleges Now, however, we have the first real in
formation.
Manager Robinson has had a meeting with the 
managers of the Pitt and State teams, together with 
the manager of Duquesne Garden. The result of this 
meeting will probably be a three-cornered league of 
Tech, Pitt and State. There is a slight chance of W. 
& J. also entering. The games will be placed on 
Saturday nights and, as there is to be no professional 
hockey this winter, should prove good drawing cards. 
The winner in this league will get the state cham
pionship, there being no other hockey teams in the 
state to compete.
It was hoped earlier in the year that the Ohio Con
ference would take up hockey. In that case, a series 
of games for the championship would have been 
arranged. Judging from the fact that Western 
Reserve has voted to have no hockey, the whole Ohio 
situation looks rather doubtful. Case would like very 
much to put a team on the ice, but are having con
siderable difficulty in making suitable arrangements 
with the rink owners. We hope that Case is able 
to reach an agreement and get out a hockey team, as 
It would add considerable zest to the situation.
Manager Robinson announces that practices will 
begin next week, being held at the close of the even
ing session on three nights per week. The exact date 
will be posted on the bulletin boards. There are 
about twenty men who have signed up and Tech 
should have no trouble in putting a splendid team on 
the ice. A game with Yale has been secured for 
December 30th, the Yale team being then on their 
western tour. Further details will be announced next 
week. In the meantime, if there is anyone who can 
play hockey let him sign the list on the bulletin 
board in the lower hall in the A. & J. building.
When Dry Cleaning is done properly you cant 
help but be satisfied. See SHUMAN, at 3911 Forbes 
near Boquet. Give him a sample order.
*I WAeg
I like you, Fred,
I like your looks;
But you never read 
And she shook her headFive feet of books 
Mere bookish lore,
My dearest Pearl,
Said Fred, is a bore!
But I do adore
Five feet of girl!Life.
Tech Barber Shoo
Cor. CRAIG and FORBES STREETS
f ?MWL2G WV1TV1  M?TM d?g
f DaiilSHfrl ?.sIli Nes 2NHfIli GUIaef Nes 
* d.INeaef WAHhl
*5 City Office631 Penn Avenue 
8 East End OfficeS. Highland Ave. & Baum St.
B. K. Elliott Co.
PERFECT FITTING EYE GLASSES ASTD SPECTACLES
108 Sixth St. (Bessemer Building)
PITTSBURGH
SMaMSlElSlB13ISI3JSfaiSiaM3iai3MaiSiaEiSiai3J3MSEEIBISI3
The Christmas Giit
HalleIb CanNy
L Baf LHHNU Aw BINSiawS. EvAHiIs BNlhIil 
MNiae 2aeIs 
*NeslAI BAIl wa..Is Fair Hanry sI.anaASl 
d*?d?2LCVM 
2Ii Sl rNtI UASH AHsIH
HuLLER BuKERY
kpY K?1BVM LOVg E1E8R?EM B2?d
ALEXANDER BROS. $
HODAKS & PHOTO SUPPLIES 
Vl8 Sixth Street, Pittsburgh, Pa. \ \
TELL OUR ADVERTISERS YOURE FROM TECH.

---------------------------------------------------

16THE TARTAN
@J3iaJ3JSlc
H. L. BLIND & BROS.
Klorista and Decorators
Flowers for all occasions
THE CHOICEST FLOWERS IN THE LARG
EST ASSORTMENT
Down Town Store:Bell 1101 Court P. & A. 189 Main 
LIBERTY & FIFTH ST.
ISiliafnlIUlia
A.G. SPALDING* BROS.
THE SPALDING
TRADE-MARK
Are the Largest Manufacturer in the World of
OFFICIAL EQUIPMENT
For all Athletic Sports and Pastimes
iVflll are interested In I U U Athletic Sport you should have a copy of the Spalding Catalogue. Its a complete encyclopedia o f 4* WHATS NEW IN SPORT f and is sent free on request. T
A. 6. SPALDIN6 & BROS. ?
439 Wood St., Pittsburg, Pa. ^
Is knewn throughout the 
world as a guarantee of 
Quality.
The S. Hamilton Co.
PIANOS and 
ORGANS
531 Wood St., - PITTSBURG, PA.
IROSOS'
MELLON NATIONAL BANK
514 SMITHFIELD STREET 
409 FIFTH AVENUE
j CAPITAL - - - $4,000,000
SOLICITS THE ACCOUNTS OP
J
STUDENTS
?
RESOURCES OVER 47 MILLIONS.
'i*Bxaxjeaxs3tt0oasx^sxcsxasc
iTWTWTyWTyTMWTWTWTWTWT^FrlVTWTWTWTM||
B. & B.
Some great new Suits Here, 
fellows, $15.00.
BOGGr & BUHL
!
For
MEN
For
WOMEN *
SHOES THAT ARE 
BETTER AND LOOK IT
HANAN & BAKER SHOE COMPANY I
435-437 Wood Street 
j. 11.WHWWWWHHWWW44
East End Supply House
FOR
ARTISTS & DRAUGHTSMEN 
Henricis Book Store
Penn Avenue, near the East End Postoffice 
rOOOOOCSOOOOeOOOOOCOOOOOOflCOQQaeoX
A. W. SMITH CO.,
FToi-ists
LaIgebt, minebt, anN bebt eq1ippeN mleIibt eb
tablibhment in umeIica. 
RepIebenteN in all laIge citieb
KEENAN BUILDING
Liberty at Sixth Avenue, Pittsburg, Pa.
TELL OUR ADVERTISERS YOURE FROM TECH.
