TEND TO THE 
MAILING 
OF YOUR THISTLE
EXAMS ARE 
COMING 
BE PREPARED
OL. XIII. NO. 20.CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH. PENNSYLVANIAJUNE 11, 1919
ECH TROUNCES GENEVA ON TRACK
lllerton Breaks Discus Record
Relay Time Lowered 5 1-5 Seconds
Tech closed the track season with a 
73-44 victory over Geneva College. 
The time made by the Carnegie men 
iras the best of the season. Two rec3rds were broken. Ellerton threw the 
jSiscus 119 feet 3 inches, breaking 
TBs own record of 115 feet made at the 
Allegheny meet of a week ago. The 
5)ther record to fall was the Tecb re
lay record of 3:34 which was made at 
Penn some years ago. This mark was 
bettered by 5 1-5 seconds; the team 
going' the mile in 3:38 4-5. Sachs,
( -who ran the first quarter, covered the 
^distance in 53 seconds, running about 
even with the Geneva man. Wieman, 
in the second quarter, ran in 55 4-5. 
losing about ten yards. Gore started 
the third quarter 10 yards behind the 
Geneva man, but in one of the fastest 
; qua tei'S Gore has ever run this year 
| he made up the ten yards and handed 
I the baton to Capt. Schmidt, Techs
TECH GETS CHAPTER HF HONORARY FRATERNITY
The installation on Monday, June 2, 
at the Schenley Hotel, of the Gamma 
chapter of the Tau Sigma Delta Hon
orary Fraternity marked a step in ad
vance in Design School activities. 
There has been a long-left need for an 
organization of this type which means 
to architecture and the allied arts 
what Tau Beta Pi stands for in en
gineering, or Phi Beta Kappa in let
ters.
Tau Sigma Delta, an organization of 
national scope, was founded at the 
University of Michigan in 1913. Since 
then chapters, have been established 
at the University of Illinois, Univer
sity of Minnesota, University of Penny'^anchor, two yards ahead of the Geneva sylvania, Syracuse University and!
/man, making the distance in 51 flat. 
[Schmidt, with a two-yard head, ran a 
remarkable race, increasing his lead 
to ten yards and covering the final 
quarter in the fastest relay ever run 
by a Tech team in the great time of 
'50 seconds; making 3:28 4-5 for the 
|' full mile.
Mike Russell, who has been down in 
| his studies and who, by a game fight, 
I brought his marks up. won both the 
j 100 and the 220-yard dashes, covering 
the 100 in 10 3-5, and the 220 in 23 3-5. 
'/Schmidt and Gore ran away with the 
1 440, winning the first two places 
asily in 51 2-5 seconds. In the S80, 
achs ran a close second to Stringer, 
f Geneva, who won in 1:59 2 5. The 
jile was slow, Stringer, of Geneva, 
inning in 5:1 4-5. Juergens ran a 
eady race in the two-mile and was 
as beaten by about ten yards by Axell, of Geneva, in the good time of 
.#)- 52,
^'Jpethy won tlie 220 hurdle in 27 2-5, 
Gare showed great improvement hi 
high hurdles, getting second place, 
s own time was 18 3-5 seconds; a 
eneva man winning in 18 2-5 seconds, 
n the pole vault Smith and Stultz had 
heir own way, gettting first and sec(Continued on Page Two.)
10. T. C. MAKINGPROGRESS NOW
After about two months of anouncements and rumors the R. O. 
T. C. is now showing itself to be as 
promised. A few weeks ago lecture 
ourses on military law and map
reading were commenced. Then 
about two weeks later instructive 
films were shown on various sub
jects to those in the R. O. T. C., 
uch as the care of horses and
mules, the infantry one pounder, and 
iourth. But now the promised equip'jf ment has started to arrive. On
Wednesday six small artillery tract
ors put on their appearance. TheyJ 
were decorated in all their gay war 
r:plors, brown, white, green, etc., and 
'i'' wed signs of hard service, 
j During the regular drill period the 
'Students were given instructions in 
/how to operate them, and were sur
prised to find how easily they were 
to manipulate. These little tractors 
are very flexible. They can turn in 
. their tracks and can make a speed 
\ of about ten miles per hour on the 
level. It was interesting to see one 
j loaded with Plebes come down the 
| street at full tilt and then jerk sud(Continued on Page Two)
lastly at the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology.
An effort was made two years ago 
to establish a chapter here, but ow
ing to unsettled conditions did not 
meet with much favor. However, the 
idea did not perish during the recent 
unpleasantness and with the revival 
of activities the faculty more than 
ever sensed the need of slcli an organ
ization.
Membership in Tau Sigma Delta is 
based primarily upon scholastic stand
ing and secondly upon school activities 
and personality. Each year three mem
bers from the Senior class and two 
from the junior class are chosen and 
referred to the faculty for ratification, 
wluMi is necessary to be eligible for 
initiation.
The local chapter consists of the 
following: Philip Friedman, Ira S.
Stark, L. C. Smith, Orvil R. Olmsted, 
Gyrus Silling Honorary members are 
Dean E. R. Bossange. Prof. H. Sternfeld. Prof. IT. S. Dornberger and Henry 
Hornbostel.
HEATING AND VENTILATING 
ENGINEERS OF AMERICA 
IN CONVENTION HERE
TAU BETA PI MAKES NEW JUNIOR ELECTIONS
Tau Beta Pi, the honorary engi
neering fraternity, made the follow
ing election from the Junior Class 
'Of Scgnce School.
',:'l ,F. Hirsch 
. E. G. Stoy 
A. J. Kerr,
Hirsch is a student in civil engi
neering and Stoy and Kerr are stu
dents in mechanical engineering.
DONT FORGET
On yesterday afternoon, June 10, 
the American Society of Heating and 
Ventilating Engineers, who held their 
semi-annual convention at the Wil
liam Penn Hotel, will be the guests 
of the Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology. In the afternoon a special 
session of the society will be held 
at the Bureau of Mines which will 
be followed in the evening by a sperial production of The Twelfth 
Night" at the School of Drama in 
the Design School.
Professor Samuel E. Dibble, head 
of the Heating and Ventilating De
partment was recently appointed 
to the commission in charge of 
the research work being conducted 
by the society in conjunction with 
the Federal Government. The so
ciety appropriated $25,000 for this 
work and the governmen"' who had 
discovered there was no basic data 
available when the cantonments 
were under construction appropriated 
a like amount in the use of office 
space, materials, labor, etc.
The most important thing in the 
session of this body will be the re
port of the committee who have con
tracted with the Federal Govern
ment for space in the Bureau of 
Mines.
WSE WANT
an eight page 
TARTAN
When buying mention 
The Tartan.
Double the ads and 
youll double the news.
INDUSTRIES SOPHS TOUCH UP PLEBES
On Wednesday afternoon the Soph
omore Class of Industries held what 
proved to be a very interesting party. 
The cause was four meek Plebes who 
are soon to1 cast their lots as true Car
negie Tech Clansmen It seems that 
the four had not been able to wait for 
Qualification Day, but had discarded 
their jester hats and smoked' vile 
cigarettes. The whole Soph Class was 
sent out and instead of the regular 
routine of cutting hair, a few new 
ideas were introduced. One offender 
was compelled to climb into a barrel, 
(donated by Jimmy' Collins for the 
occasion) and compelled to entertain 
the girls of Margaret Morrison. An
other scrubbed the steps of the De
sign School, and other -odd jobs. A 
picture was taken of the parade and 
printed with much delight in the city 
papers.
Qualification Day will be a red letter 
day for a fewespecially the big 4.
TARTAN STAFF OFFICERS FOR THE 
ENSUING YEAR
NOMINATION 
Managing Editor;?
Science School Editor:?
Two Assistant Editors:? 
Industries Editor:?
Design Editor:?
Illll!lllllllll!llll[lllll!!ll!lliinill!!:ill!!ll!;i!illllll!l[l![llll!ll!ll!ll![!l[!lll!l!lll[!ll!llllll[!ll!l!l!!!l!lll!l!!lll!llllllll!l!i
YOUR THISTLE TEND TO IT NOW
The Thistle board wishes to take this, opportunity to communicate to
the Techites that the Thistle will not be on sale before the close of
school. The board knows that it was the wish of every student to take a 
Thistle home. In order that their wish might be realized, every effort was 
made to publish the book before July first. But on account of the limited 
time, and on account of the disorganized condition of affairs around school, 
generally, the efforts of the board in this/direction have been hindered to 
such a great extent, that the task has biJen made impossible. This has 
forced no mean amount of additional work upon the board. It has necessi
tated the wrapping and mailing of one thousand separate copies.
The plan, which seems most advisable and the plan to bo followed by 
this board, calls for the immediate payment,of the amount due on each book, 
and an additional twenty-five cents to cover the cost of mailing.
The Thistle office in the basement of the Central Building will bo open
on June 12tli and 13th from 9:30 A. M. until 5:00 P. M. for the collection of
this money. At the time of payment a receipt will bo issued, entitling the 
holder to a Thistle as soon as the 1919 Thistle is published.
The Thistle board asks the co-operation of each subscriber by being 
here on these days, in order that no one will be without an annual.
TECH PROFESSOR HEADS AUTHORS CLUB OF CITY
A pamphlet has just been issued 
covering the works,' of Pittsburgh 
authors. This pamphlet was complied 
by the Authors Club of Pittsburgh, of 
the Structural Design Department of 
which Professor Horace R. Thayer, of 
the Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
is the president. This association Is 
composed of authors of Pittsburgh or 
vicinity who have written works of 
recognized literary or scientific value, 
and membership is based only on 
compositions that are passed on by 
the council of the club. Completion ot 
manuscript of a book or publication of 
number of articles of literary oi 
scientific value entitles the author to 
associate membership.
The objects of the club which was 
recently formed as incorporated in the 
constitution are: To promote good
fellowship and co-operation among its 
members; to encourage and develop 
literary and scientific activity; to pro
mote the best possible relation be, 
tween authors and publishers; to es
tablish helpful relations with the 
community and with the general pub 
lie. _ ,
The present officers of the club are; 
Professor Horace R. Thayer of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
president; Professor Roswell H. John
son of the University of Pittsburgh, 
vice president; Miss Elizabeth H. 
Wilkinson, 5805 Elgin avenue, Pitts
burgh, secretary; Professor O. E. Jen
nings of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, treasurer. Other mem
bers of the club that are connected 
with the faculty are J. T. Hoyle and 
W. Trinks.
PLEBE HAIR CUTTING
It frequently becomes necessary, in 
order to impross upon the minds of 
a few loss disciplined Plebes, that 
some of the superficial covering of 
that. part of the anatomy more or 
loss associated with intelligence has 
to be removod to facilitate, the ease 
of the making of the Impression and 
to insure its permanence.
This simply Is the problem which 
confronted the Science Sophs. Nev
ertheless they used the situation ad
mirably and, with the aid of a pair 
of clippers andi a ;box of two-ln-onc 
succeeded in establishing an ove; tfrom which some few certain Plebes 
can reckon time.
GET GOING
FORMER M. M. D. INSTRUCTOR IN CHARGE OF Y. M. C. A. WORK
Miss Mary Hanna of Pittsburgh, 
Pa., is in charge of the newest Y. 
M. C. A. hut recently established at 
Rotterdam. Mrs. John W. Ganett, 
wife of the American minister at The 
Hague, was very much interested in 
the construction of the first American 
hut in Holland and was influential 
in obtaining the position for Miss 
Hanna. Miss Hanna is a graduate 
of Drexel Institute and was former
ly an instructor in M. M. D.
Next, year is going to bo a big 
year for Tech in every way. Back 
on a pre-war basis and say, man, that 
football team, Vet Williams, Phil 
Marshall and possibly Nig Finley, 
"Cupid Young and Jim Jones will 
be back to help the vets of the last 
two years turn out a craekerjack 
eleven for Tech.
Coach Steffans will be on deck 
early in the season, "Red Campbell 
has started work already, and now 
we must get going. Three years 
ago Tech turned out the best team 
in her history, but this year's team 
will even eclipse that outfit if we 
can relie on the dope sheet.
Back in 1916, a loyal crowd of 
forty-foui> real Tech rooters under 
the leadership of fighting Red Mer
rill made the trip with the team to 
Cornell. How many are going next 
year? Four years ago a crowd of 
over four hundred went to Cleveland 
for the Case game and Tech had 
more rooters than Case did on her 
own field. Now then, how many are 
going to Washington for the W. & 
J. game? Eight hundred whatThe thing we can do is to start 
thinking, talking and boosting the 
team. We cant all play football, 
but we can all back up the team 
and show some old Tech spirit. Start 
thinking about that Cornell trip. 
Ask A1 Heyl about it. He was there 
in 16 and will be there with bells 
on next fall. Get going.
EXPLOSIVE ENGINEER TALKS ON SAFETY
gj j The third and most important of the 
; series of lectures on safety, given 
g i during the campaign being conducted 
p | by the Carnegie Institute of Techi nology was delivered last Wednesday, 
g at 11:30 a. m., in the Lecture Hall of 
j the Carengie Library. The speaker. 
/; Mr. L. A. DeBlois is the chief sefety 
fg i engineer of the E. I. DuPont de Meurs 
fg & Co. of Wilmington, Del. Mr. De 
jg I Blois will illustrate his lecture with 
g i lantern slides and will show examples 
of accidents taken from life, due to 
negligence of this great factor in the 
conduct of our city life, Safety.
Mr. DeBlois says If we carefully 
analyze a sufficient, number of acci
dents which have occurred in any in
dustry and attempt to place definitely 
the responsibility for their occurrence, 
we find that almost, without exception, 
sixty to eighty per cent are generally 
attributed to some fault or failing of 
the man injured or of a fellow em
ployee. it is remarkable, indeed, that 
this holds true for practically all in
dustries and all occupations, and It 
leads directly to the conclusion that, 
while the materials.,and the products 
handled, the machinery and the 
methods employed, may exert a vory 
marked influence on the location, na
ture and extent of the Injury itself, 
they liavo no marked effect on fre
quency of accidents or the relative re
sponsibility for their occurrence. It 
is perhaps for this reason that a cor
poration such as the du Pont Company, 
which is the largest manufacturer In 
America of such dangerous materials 
as oxploslvos and strong acids, is able 
to maintain an accident rate equally 
as good as that of the manufacturers 
of such a harmless substance as coment.
11 wo koop dourly beToro Us the 
great prevalence of accidents, the re
sponsibility for which Is attributed to 
the man Injured rather than to the 
employer or to the method of work 
I employed, wo will readily appreciate 
tlie fundamental importance' Of edu
cating the workmen In habits of 
safety. Upon this great class of ac
cidents the installation of safety de
vices can have but little effect, es
pecially If wo concede that no safety 
dovlcos may bo made absolutely fool 
proof,
Such locturos are of particular In
terest to onglnoorlng students and 
furnish food for thought. Should they 
be a workman themselves it would Intorost them and should they employ,
I ho problem of economic production 
Is ovor tho largo ono, accidents bolng 
one of the dlillcultlos thus encoun
tered.
Safety education, ho says, Is the 
only solution. Badges, pins and signs 
are helpers. Mootings of the em
ployees, l'ormons mootings and the 
like also playing an Important part.
INDUSTRIES OFFICERS INSTALLED LAST WEEK
At a meoting hehj during, tho week, 
the new officers of the Students' As
sembly of the School of Industries of 
the Carnegie Institute of Technology 
were Installed. This Assembly is the 
forum of the students of the Industries 
School, at which all have a chance to 
air their views and is a clearing house 
for the pent-up opinions of the young 
men pursuing studies along the me
chanical and industrial lines. In a 
measure this Assembly regulates the 
conduct of the student body and acts 
as a court in the trial for certain in
fractions. One of the highest of the 
honors bestowed upon students in this 
School of Industries is election to one 
of the executive or administrative of
fices of the body, and this honor is 
only conferred on those who have dis
tinguished themselves.
William H. Oakley, the newly elect
ed president, is one of the most popu
lar men in the school. Is a member of 
several of the most prominent organi
zations and a member of the baseball 
team. His home is in Naples, N. Y.
DRAMA SCHOOL PROGRAM FOR JUffiVERY DRIGHT
Following the successful production 
of "The Twelfth Night" by the School 
of Drama during the month of May, 
for the ensuing month, the School will 
present special bills A varied pro
gram has been arranged which in
cludes Shakespearean productions, 
concerts and special plays written by 
various members of the School. This 
school, which is under tho leadership 
of Thomas Wood Stevens, is closingone of the most successful years since 
its establishment. Tho plays "The 
Silver Box" and "The Twelfth Night 
have aroused a storm of favorable 
comment throughout the dramatic 
world, especially since the very flat
tering comment paid to the school by 
John Gaislwortliy, the English author 
and playwright: Mr, Galsworthy a
short time ago visited the school to 
witness tho production of his play, 
The Silver,Box," which was produced 
in his honor, and at that time said 
tho school was conducting tho most 
vital work carried on In the dramatic 
field.
 On Juno 4 the month opens with a 
concert, which will bo followed ou 
June 5 by anorchestral concert. On 
Monday, June 9, tho cast will present 
Pygnallon and Galatea," and on tho 
following afternoon will present the 
same play at a matinee. In the evenlug of June 10, The Twelfth Night.' 
will bo ropontod for the benefit of 
those who were unable to witness I ho 
former productions. On Juno 12 and 
14, the most original bills of tho year 
will be presented, for 11 vo one-act 
playlets will bot produced. Tho feature 
of these productions Is that each XI.N 
written by one of the students of the 
School of Drama. They are respective
ly, The Fate Linn," written by Ha/.ol 
Beck; "Bnoohanalla," by OwonWhlto; 
Double I'flyod," by Kenneth Thomp
son; "Tho Helmet," by Howard 
Smith, and "Tho Soul of a Policeman,* 
by Sarah Bennett Smith.
Oil .11.11. 1,1,-the l.'i.rWfc ' Stt' 
Galatea." This production Is a part of 
dents will hold their matinee, at whl'.di 
thoy will present 'Pygmalion and 
tho qualifying course these students 
(Continnoil on Pag Two.)
ATHLETICS COMPULSORY TO HARVARD FRESHMEN
Professor R. B. Morrlman, '91!, chair
man of the Harvard athletic commit* 
too; C. N. Greenough, '1)8, acting dean 
of tho college, and Dr. Roger I. Loo, 
'02, professor of hygiene, have a< 
rived at a common plan for tho en
forcement of compulsory freshman 
athletics at Harvard sloping next fall. 
This plan has completo approval of 
the Board of Overseers and faculty, 
and at Its next meeting tho university 
corporation will pass favorably on tho 
proposition.
The plan doos not aim to supplant 
organized athletics, but to Supplement 
them by furnishing to those who can
ot make places on the regular fresh
man or dormitory teams other oppor
tunities to benefit in recreative sports. 
The normal time which each member 
of the compulsory athletic class will 
have to devote to exercise will bo 
throe hours a week. Any man parti
cipating In organized athletics will ho 
excused from attendance at this class 
during the period of such participa
tion.
The sports to be chosen for tho 
class will be varied enough to suit the 
tastes of every individual, but prefer
ence will be given to out-of-door sports 
and competitive games. Also forms of 
exercise which can be kept up easily 
(Continued on Page Two.)
C.-G.-S.
If you are tired and want rest, you
are like a good many millions of oth- lBl ^, . ? , Va before coming to Tech. He wonf>rs hut if vnn 11 wail Inner pnmieli  ... ,ers, but if youll wait long enough 
youll find yourself facing the pros
pect of a long rest, and wont like it.
An interesting meeting of the C. G. 
S. Club was held last Friday evening 
In Room 209, Science Building. The 
Harry C, Hamman, the new vice i meeting had been arranged primarily 
president, was an honor man in his ; as a reception for those plebes who 
local high school at Martlnsburg, W. have elected to pursue the Physics
Option of the General Science Coursu,
Mechanical Club 
Banquet
the scholarship offered this year in the 
Industries School and is a member of 
I the Track Team, 
h Holmes Wasson Lynn was re-elected 
I j Secretary of the body. Lynn has been 
I prominent In Tech athletics during his 
I stay at Tech and is the varsity short - 
I stop and plays half back on the foot.
but the plebes proved to be there in 
much the lesser number.
However, tho members present 
were treated to two excellent talks b> 
Dr. Thomas and Dr, flensehler of the 
WoHtlnghoiiHO Research Laboratories. 
In his remarks, Dr. Thomas told ot 
some of tho commercial aspects .ft?,W
LINCOLN CLUB
JUNE 2 Lst
222 CRAFT AVENUE
Theres nothing half so sour in life 
as the awakening from loves young 
dream.
PROP. THINKS WI UL BE THERE
ball team. He Is likewise a member physics, showing many of l.hp,,\lm 
of a number of college organizations cult b n which arise and inunl, j/e 
and lives In Washington, Pa. | solved by the physicist. Dr. Renschlei
William G. Pennypacker HI, Is a j spoke along more theoretical llnty* 
new man In school and a member of | taking for his subject, "Resonance Iri 
the Freshman Class of the Industries | Mon-atomlc Oases. ",
Division His election as treasurer Is | After the program, iv freShments 
In a measure recognition of scholastic were served, consisting of (Ice cream,
standing. His home Is In Buffalo, N. 
Y. He is likewise treasurer of the 
newly-formed "Buffalo Club at Tech.
cakes, lemonade and smokes. Th 
meeting was pronounCd a success, 
from every standpoint.  |

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE TARTANWEDNESDAY, JUNE 11, 1919
artan
Published every week by undergraduates of tho 
Technology.
Carnegie Institute of
Entered In thepohtoflice of Pittsburgh as second-class rnatier.
This year $1.00
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
5c the copyCanaria. $1.25
Phono, Hazel 9425.
.. Terrence Allsworth
Business' Manager
Phone Schenley 9025
Henry F. Scheetz, Jr.
EDITORIAL 
Managing Editors.
J. J. Rudisill.
Assistant Editors.
A. C. May.
G. A. Willard.
School Editors
M. M. C. S................Margaret Sondheim
Science ................................ K. K. Knaell
Industries ..............................H. W. Lynn
DeBlgn ..................................... G. T. Miller
Night .....................................O.22.0 FoBter
Athletic Editor 
W. J. Ravenscroft 
8taff Photographer 
William M. Myler, Jr.
M. M. O, 8. Assistants 
Edith Braden 
France Roberto 
Hazel Shaeffer 
Helen Young 
BUSINESS 
Assistants 
John G. Keel an 
Martin I. Cohen 
Circulation Manager 
H. G. Atchley
TARTAN OFFICE..Hours2:00 to 4:00 Wednesdays.
4.30 to 8:00 Thursdays.
.Room 162, Design
The Editor-In-Chief Is responsible for the policy of this paper; the Manag
ing Editor for the make up.
All business communications should be sent to the Business Manager. 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported 
at once.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the signature to be withheld if desired.
All news iteir.s ~.ust be In the student postolllce, Central Building, before 
noon on Saturdays. tggSpalA
TARTAN STAFF
The M. M. D. students have elected the new members of the Tartan staff. 
They are:School editor, Margaret Griifln; assistants, Gertrude Baton, Adele Gumbert, Margaret Stolzenbaugh, Olga Kiefer.
Two assistant athletic editors have reported and announce their candidacy 
for the position next year. They are I-Iahy Haldeman and Jimmy Town
send.The policy will be changed somewhat in regards athletics. There will 
be three or four assistant athletic editors, each assigned to one definite sport. 
He will cover the ground fully in this one sport and that is all that is 
required.
PUPPET
There seems to have been a little doubt about the authorship of a cer
tain criticism of a cartoon which appeared in these columns of last week's 
Tartan. Ii was the opinion of a few of the girls, expressed themselves in 
their own language and by themselves.The Puppet stall should be complimented on the Issue they "put out. 
The Puppet, strangled as H was by military activities, was certainly hard to 
start and any criticism that is to be offered should be carefully considered 
before it is expressed.II. will be issued again this year and certainly the Tartan wishes the 
Puppet staff all the .success in the world. It would he well, however, to omit 
"Maggie Murph. The girls dont like it, that is sure.
THE MUSICAL CLUBS
Tho musical clubs held their annual banquet at the Lincoln Club Friday 
evening and elected tho olllcers for the coming year. "Mike" Sweeney was 
chosen for president. Milce is a good musician, a good fellow and most im
port nut, a good man.Willard was chosen for manager. Wlilard la ii hard worker, a willing 
W0riU'L\.Hd iell,))lp. He .certainly ought to, pilot tho club through a suc
cessful year.
Surely (he clubs made no mistake In selecting these men for both are 
able, capable workers. Lot tho Tartan congratulate these officers and wish 
them a successful year.
TECK MEN, TAKE WARNING
If the men would only allow tho Margaret Morrison plebos to walk 
around the campus unmolested, they would certainly he doing a kind deed. 
The penally for intercourse on the campus between a. M. M. plo.be and a 
man, plobo or upper classman, Is the destruction of coiffure. Since spring 
has come quite a few M. M. plebos have had to pay tho penally. Of course 
w.e all know that In spring "a young mans fancy lightly turns to thoughts of 
Jove" bu! If Hu* young men of Tech would only direct; their thoughts towards 
others than plebea, sophs would only smile on them and wish them luck. 
Hut our plchos must not offer the excuse any more that they simply cannot 
gel away from these men because Hie men must take the warning from ibis 
and desist, from meeting plebos. She may not think so kindly of that pleasant 
stroll through tin park If upon her return she has to suffer the humiliation 
of having her curly locks plaited In a hundred pigtails, .lust last week such 
an Incident occurred ami I.Uroo plebos were made' to suffer the penalty. They 
offei'ed Hi" excuse that they couldnt got away from those terrible men, but 
that excuse cannot be accepted any more, for no man would wish to get a 
lady In I rouble and now t hat tho men know Just what happens, they will 
surely let M. M. plobes alone.
Official Announcement
Students are earnestly requested to co-operate with the workings of the 
Department of Student Health by abstaining from notifying parents of any 
cases of illness in the student body without conferring with the Department 
of Student Health.In cases necessitating such action, a letter or telegram or a telephonic 
communication is sent to parents of out of town students but only when the 
case has been dignosed, and the situation warrants it. The Department is by 
far better able to act with intelligence in all cases than any student, animated 
by the best intention imaginable though he be. Here is a case in point. A student 300 miles away from home suffers 
from a condition which may be acute indigestion or appendicitis. A diagnosis 
cannot be immediately established, and the patient is sent to a hospital. The 
head of the service in the hospital is himself unable to specifically pass 
judgment on the case for 2-1 hours. At the end of that time the patient is 
himself again; he suffered from acute indigestion. Within 48 hours he is 
back at school, having perhaps learned through experience that three meals 
a day at specified hours are better than four or five at any time from' S A. M. 
to 11 P. M.The Department of Health will then write the parents the facts concern
ing the case. This is what ought to happen.
What actually takes.place is as follows:
A well intentioned fellow student telegraphs the parents that son is very 
sick. Father and mother undertake a long journey, travel all night and reach 
the hospital next morning to find the very ill son quite as well as before the 
attack. They have suffered both emotionally and financially, and, what is 
worse, quite unnecessarily.Please avoid a-repetition of such mistakes, and give the Department a 
chance,E. ESQUIRRE.
janitor to inspect his room, and to furnish him with a report card which |rrn IIFm 1 llirO* n ITFI 
should be presented at once at the office of the Dean of Men to be approved I Mill M Mill AN li.l &. I I H for a refund of the deposit balance at the Cashiers Office. ' U -UIl/lHlUtl ULUU
A. W. TARBELL, Dean of Men.June 9th, 1919.
EXAMINATIONS FOR THE MASTER'S DEGREE
The Division of Applied Psychology announces that the final oral examin
ation of Mr. Arthur W. Kornhauser, B. S., for the degree of Master of Arts 
will be held in the Psychology Seminar Room, Design Building, at 4:00 P. 
M. on Monday, June i). Thesis subject, "Mental Tests and Character Traits. 
Examining committee, Professors Miner, Whipple, Gordon, Thurstone and Long.
Tho final oral examination of Mr. Franklyn Meine, Pli.B., for the degree 
of Master of Arts will be held in the Psychology Seminar Room, Design 
Building, at 4:00 P. M. on Monday, June 23, Thesis subject, "Job Analyses. 
Examining committee, Professors Bingham, Whipple, Miner, Thurstone and Hower.
W. V. BINGHAM,
Dean.
TECH TROUNCES ATHLETICS COMPULSORY
GENEVA ON TRACK T0 HARVARD FRESHMEN
(Continued From Page One.) 
ond places at 10 feet 8 inches. David
son and Hannon took both places in 
the broad jump. Davidson also took 
second place in the 100, runnnig close 
to Russell.
Taken on the whole, the Tech team 
showed a great improvement in every 
branch except shot, Ellerton getting 
only 36 feet 7 inches in this event. 
But he more than made up for it in 
the discus. Code, Neiman and Thomas 
won their first points of the season in 
the meet and are to he congratulated 
on their work New men at the track 
game, they have worker hard all sea
son and deserve much credit. Hawkins 
and Giffen are men who have been 
showing marked iinprovemnt and in 
another year should be real comer.
When one recalls the adverse con
ditions under which all-school activi
ties started up this year, a new mean
ing attaches itself to the success made 
by the trick team. On account of con
ditions due to the war and at least one 
other reason the customary outburst 
of pep in the fall, due to football, was 
smothered. On the opening of school 
in January things had not yet begun 
to sIioav life. Thise collected with the 
activities did their best to arouse 
spirit and pep and as a result of their 
work, when the call came, there Avas 
an encouraging turnout for athletics. 
The school has engaged the best men 
to be found in Coaches Wagner, Hazel 
and Bianchi for spring athletics, and 
with Coach- Steffen returning again 
this fall for football there promises to 
be an athletic program for next year 
which will have grown out of the 
spirit and pep shown in this years 
teams.
DRAMA SCHOOL PROGRAM
FOR JUNE VERY BRIGHT
DORMITORY ROOMS FOR 1919-20
In order to secure precedence In assignments, students at present in resi
dence' desiring to make application for dormitory rooms for the college year 
beginning September 29, 1919, should do so at. tho Office of the Dean of Men 
on or before Juno 21st, 1919. After that date the assignments will begin for 
new students entering next fall. No applications will be considered at pres
ent for rooms In Dormitories 2 or 7 (West Dormitory and new front one of 
cream brick).DORMITORY ROOMS FOR THE SUMMER
Rooms In Dormitories 3, I and 5 (formerly Training House, South Dormi
tory and N. V. Club House, respectively) can bo rented by the month for the
PA PA
period from .lune :U)th to September 2(Uh at the rate of tf.50 per week per 
I vccupanl for double rooms, or $2.7f) per week for single rooms. Service for
.iivw iof rooms will be Included in this rate. No rooms will be available in 
Devmltfbly l (formerly East) during the first part of the summer, as this 
building' ist to lie renovated.THE RELEASE OF PRESENT ASSIGNMENTS 
All privH'nt. occupants of dormitory rooms, except the' Federal Board 
of yoeaiioiiijI1.Education men. will be required to vacate their rooms on or 
before .ilune -tU-li. unless they have signed up for them for July on or before 
June 21.stJ Rooms must be cleaned before being vacated, and beds on 
sleepii'ife '.rdl'ies should be returned to the rooms.Every'dormitory man will be required to either turn in his key 
janitor oil or before June. 2Sth or show the janitor a Cashiers recei; 
he has rere.iited the room for July. The Superintendent, of Buildings makes 
a charge of 50c against the room deposit of a man where a key is not. turned 
in before June 2Stli. When\a student is ready to vacate he should ask the
(Continued From Pago One.)| 
are taking for admission to the school. 
In addition to the play, the students 
will present some folk dancing aii^l a 
concert.
On Friday evening, June 13, and on 
Sunday evening, June 15, the concerts 
will be again given..
On June 17. 18 and 19, tho cast will 
present "The Foud, by Edward Gar
nett.
On June 21, in the evening, and 
again at a matinee on June 20, a dual 
bill will be given, consisting of "Loves 
Constancy," a Shakospoarean produc
tion arranged by William Pool, and 
"The Admirable Bashville, by George 
'Bernard Shaw. At. tho evening per
formance ,on .Tune 2(1, a Vlctor> 
Pageant will bo staged. This pageant 
has boon arranged by 13. Idon Payne, 
professor at tho School of Drama and 
Art Director of the Charles Frohman 
Company, of New York City, who first 
produced the Galsworthy production 
in America and who Galsworthy re 
forred to in his speech at the Little 
Theater of the Design School when.he 
said, "1 am glad to see my first play 
boy (The Silver Box) taken out in a 
Pittsburgh perambulator under the 
guidance of that perfect nurse, B. Iden 
Payne." Working with Mr. Payne, 
jointly, in arranging and staging this 
pageant, is Professor Thomas Wood 
Stevens, head of the School of Drama 
and who is largely responsible for the 
wonderful success the school is now 
closing.
On June 23. a trip has been arranged 
for the cast which, will go to Indiana, 
Pa., where they will present The 
Twelfth Night before the Pennsylva
nia State Normal School. This trip 
will officially close the season for the 
School of Drama.
In view of the fact that the majority 
of the cast playing this year will re
turn to Tech for the ensuing school 
year, the prospects for a wonderful 
company of actors during 1920 are ex
ceedingly bright.
(Continued From Page One.) 
until late in life will be selected as 
well as those which are difficult to 
continuo after leaving college, on ac
count of the elaboiate equipment or 
large number of contestants required. 
According to such plans, rowing, ten
nis, hockey, swimming, track events, 
and soccer will be encouraged, and in 
winter basketball, squash and squash 
recquets, boxing, fencing, wrestling 
and gymnasium work.
At the beginning of the year all 
freshmen will be classified physically. 
The men marked A will be quilified 
for any kind of physical training; the> 
will be eligible for the athletic class 
or organized athletics. The men 
marked B will be eligible for the class, 
but not for organized athletics except 
on re-examination or special consid
erations, while those marked C Avill 
be classed as sub-normal and some 
form of special exercise will be pre
scribed for them. D men will include 
the physically abnormal and they will 
be excused from the training.
According to the proposed plan, the 
professor of hygiene will have gen
eral supervision of the system, aided 
by assistants, medical advisers, a di
rector and assistant director to take 
actual charge of the athletic class, 
and others.
Several additions and changes in the 
athletic plant of the university, are 
contemplated in connection with the 
above scheme. These will embrace 
the reclaiming oC a considerable por
tion of the marshy ground on Soldiers 
Field, the conversion of the Randolph 
tennis court into twelve squash courts, 
the remodeling of Little's courts, and 
the construction of a temporary wood
en building on the land directly back 
of the freshman dormitories, to pro
vide an additional basketball court and 
several small rooms for fencing, box
ing. and wrestling.
Besides tho required training fo. 
freshmen a compulsory course in 
hygiene of about' fifteen lectures' is 
planned. The topics taken, up will 
probably be mental hygiene, sexual 
hygiene, care of the body in its various 
aspects, elements of sanitation, and the 
essential facts of exercise and fatigue.
The difference between Harvard and 
Tech is that at Tech we all take it.
ANYTHING
Last, week 
A -friend of mine 
From out of town 
visited, me.
Ho said
He had not. been 
In Pittsburgh 
For several years,
And wanted to see 
If It had changed much.
I took him round 
And showed him 
All the latest sights.
He told me 
He would like to see 
Carnegie Tech.
1 took him round 
To see the school.
When we got home 
1-Ie remarked,
"It looks the same 
As eight years ago 
Except for 
Some new buildings.
There are no trees
On the campus
And a campus without trees
Is not a campus at all.
HELD JJVELV SMOKER
The Tech Mechanics Club of the 
Industries School held what proved to 
be the best smoker of the year last 
Wednesday night in the Union.
About 75 members of the club were 
present with several alumni and in
vited guests. A very interesting pro
gram was arranged by the president,
H. J. Graham, and his assistants, 
Warner and Mantell.
The program was opened with a 
boxing match between Sintay and 
Cousino, in which Cousino was de
clared the winner. Next came a 
wrestling match between two huskies, 
Red Helfrich and "Red Godden, in 
which Helfrich won two out of three 
falls.
Then the feature of the program 
was furnished by a tropue of Scotch 
Highlanders. Mr. Beaton, who is con
sidered a second Harry Lauder, ren
dered several Scotch songs and talks. 
Next came Miss Scott, who gave some 
of the cleverest classical dances ever 
put on in the city. First she appeared 
in Scotch dress and gave the Sword 
Dance, which was followed by the 
Sailors Horn Pipe. After five 
minutes of continuous encore, she apJ 
peared and gave the "Irish Jig, which 
brought down the whole crowd. This 
young lady, only 15 years of age, is 
considered the best classical dancer 
in the city, and has won over 50 
medals in competition. She is a mem
ber of the famous Callodeiman 
Troup of entertainers. She was ac
companied in all her dances by Mx. 
Blackhall, who played a bagpipe. He 
was at one time leader of the Scotch 
Highlander Band of Pittsburgh, but is 
now instructor in Heat*Treatment oi 
Steel.
Mr. Taylor, instructor in Forge Shop, 
gave a very interesting talk on Seat 
Hunting Under Arctic Skies. He 
told, briefly, of his trip and the man
ner of catch and preparing the seal 
for the market and the fun of it all.
Dad White, the dady of them all, 
then furnished the surprise of tlie 
evening, when he appeared with 
concertina, on which he played 
several selections. "Dad had the best 
time of his life, he said.
Last on the extensive program was 
a boxing match between Fine and 
Meyers, in which Meyers had an edge, 
after three fast rounds.
Between acts punch, sandwiches 
and doughnuts . were served, while 
there was plenty of smokes. This was 
the only social event of the year for 
the club. It certainly was a great suc
cess.
OL.L1Jud
You will find tlia 
Reymers  Candies stain 
first with nine out of 
fellows. There surely" i 
must he a reason for 
this.
tancfl 
f ten)
Selling at nearly all ! 
Drug Stores and at our 
own Retail Stores 1 '
237 Fifth Avenue
437 Fifth Avenue 
6018 Penn Avenue'
Mellon 
National 
Bank
PITTSBURGH j 
Smithfield Street, I 
Fifth & Oliver Avenues 
Capital - - - - $6,00C 000 
Surplus -  $4,000,CQ0j 
Resources Over 
$12fi,000,000
GGEGGTGGWGGGOEGGGHGGGGGGGOORGNWGOGOGOOGGGOGGGWDGWGGGGOOOSOGOOGSGGGOWGWOGGGGGGGGGGYGGGGGGGGG,GOGGGGGOGJBellSchenky 389
!MISS OLEARY
(Formerly with J. E.' T. Shuman) j| 
DRY CLEANINGREPAIRING j
Ladies' and Mens Clothes, Carpets, M Rugs, Portieres Work Guaranteed and Turned Out on g Short Notice.Will call for all pressing; and cleaning:  at Frat Houses.
3933 FORBES STREET (Oakland) 1 PITTSBURGH, PA.
lilliilWIIIIilljlM
SUBMARINE LECTURE
Captain Farnsworth, U. S. N. R. F., | 
was the speaker tit an assembly of I 
students at 11:30 a. m., Thursday, 
June 5, 1919, in room 104, Industries. 
Colonel Day heard Captain Farns-I 
worth speak at a. meeting of the Pitts, j 
burgh Chamber of Commerce, and | 
asked him to speak to the C. L. 1.1 
students.
Mr. Farnsworth, a graduate of | 
Worcester Polytechnic Institute, was i 
loaned by the Westlnghouse Electric 
and Manufacturing Company to the | 
United States Navy at the beginning 
of the Avar. He Avas in charge of the | 
installation of the mechanical equip
ment of the NeAV London Experiment 
station. At this station some of the | 
greatest scientists of America 'Avere j 
Avorking on methods of eliminating j 
the U-boat menace.
Afterwards he Avas stationed in! 
London on the staff of Admiral Sinn.' j 
as the scientific naval attache.
Mrs. FarnsAVortlis address Avas Arery 
interesting. It covered the work Avith 
Avhicli he himself was most actively 
connected. The methods of detecting 
submarines and the Avay the submarine 
Avas combatted Avere discussed as fully 
as naval authorities Avould permit. He 
spoke of the chasers and the Mys
tery ship and their relative merits in 
submarine warfare. The lecture Avas 
am-^ly illustrated with very good 
slides.
1 Oakland Annex Restaurant
|j 3708 FORBES STREET
j TRY OUR SPECIAL 35c
Op DINNER
ja From 11 A. M. to 8 p. m. 
Soup Meat Two Vegetables 
Dessert Coffee and Tea
llillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllli 
W. O. Breckon
STUDIOS
Forbes and Atwood Sts.
Phones 1603160 Schenley 
SPECIAL PRICES TO TECH 
STUDENTS
lllll!l!lllliillll[liilllllll]llllillllllllllllllilllllll[lllllllllllilllillll!lllltlllllllllllilllll[liill[illllllllllilii
DONT FORGETWE WANT
an eight page 
TARTAN
When buying mention 
The Tartan.
Double the ads and 
youll double the news.
EEEEEGEOOEEEEEEEEEEEOEOAAUEOEO1S111EEOEOWGEEGWGEEEO9AAOEEEEOOEEEEEEEEEEEEEOEEEOWE9AAAOEOEEEOEGOEEEOEGWGOGWGWGGErH
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS
R. O. T. C. MAKING
PROGRESS NOW
to the 
ipt that
(Continued From Page One.) 
denly around, shaking off a couple 
of passengers.
These trucks are of great service 
in rough country for .hauling the 
lighter guns. They are able to go 
up very steep- banks with ease and 
can also go a long a hillside slop
ing at a perilous angle. In the Avoods 
they are of great value since they, 
can easily go around trees and over 
logs. A good operator can drive 
them into seemingly ( impossible 
places.
A great many of these traol.ors 
were shipped over to France and 
wore used to great advantage in the 
Avar. In the great drive in 191S tjhey 
Avere of use in bringing up the guns 
and keeping them constantly at the 
front. Without these the Avar c6uld 
hardly have closed1 so soon.
These tractors are just a part of 
the fine equipment that is soon coni
ine; for the R. O. T. C. and their ar
rival will probably give an added 
boost to enrollment for next year.
SLIMMER QUARTER
A special bulletin containing description of courses for the summer quarter has been issued and 
can be obtained at the Registrars Office. The following subjects are offered:
DIVISION OF SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING
Freshman Year: Chemistry, Mathematics, Projections and Mechanical Drawing, English, French,
German.
Sophomore Year: Physics (Mechanics, Electricity and Magnetism, Heat), Mathematics, Descrip
tive Geometry, Mechanics.
Junior Year: Physics (Light), Mechanics.
Special: Elements of Structural Engineering.
DIVISION OF THE ARTS
Pinno, Organ, Violin, Violoncello, Technique of Orchestral Instruments.
DIVISION OF INDUSTRIES
Mathematics, Chemistry, Drawing (Mechanical, Architectural, Structural), Machine Shop, Electri
cal Equipment and Construction, Sanitary Equipment and Installation, Automobile Maintenance and 
Operation.
The summer quarter begins June 30. The first term ends August 8: the second, September 12.It is urged that all students, who wish to take work in the summer, fill 
out the regular application blank (Form 125) in the Registrars Office immediately, in order to expedite the arranging of schedules.
Inquiries concerning further details may be addressed to Mr. Bright, Registrar, or to Dr. Ihrig, 
Director of the Summer Quarter.

---------------------------------------------------

LISTEN!!
You cam get twice 
as many ordinary 
cigarettes for the 
price of Murad.
But you cheat your
self of everything that 
makes a cigarette worth 
while  the delight, 
the satisfaction, the aris
tocracy of pure Turkish 
tobacconone like itl
100% 
PURE TURKISH 
the worlds most 
famous tobacco 
for cigarettes
Judge for yourself!
Mahers of the Ifohcsl Grade Turhlzli and Egyptian Unamttes in ihe ttbrld
: TH* f
S-SsIggSTHE TURKISH CIGARETTE
PAGE THREE
SCHOOL NOTES
Last week the English and History 
Department Instructors gave a tea in | 
honor o the Margaret Morrison Fac
ulty. The hostesses were Miss Parry, 
Mrs. Vermorcken, Miss Demarest, 
Miss Fay and Miss Roenick. The tea 
was given in the faculty parlors.
Mrs. Philput of the Margaret Morri- i 
son Division is attending the com-! 
mencement exercises at Mount; Hol
yoke. South Hadley, Mass. Her daugh
ter, Miss Mary Philput, is a mernbei j 
of this years graduating class.
Miss Mary Coleman, physical train-1 
ing instructor at M. M. D.. is spending I 
a week at her home in South Boston. 
Va.
Y. W. C. A. NEWS
The annual Candle-Lighting Service 
for the installation of new officers was 
held last Thursday in the Recreation 
Hall. Miss Holmes was in charge of 
the meeting, and gave an interesting 
talk on the democratic spirit in co\- 
leges.
The ceremony was very impressive, 
the officers of this year presenting 
their lighted candles to the new of
ficers.
On Sunday, June 15, there will be a 
joint Y. W. C. A. cabinet meeting of 
the old and new officers at the homo 
of Lydia McCarthy.
Harry Vandervort of Weston, W. 
Va., and just discharged -from the 
Fifteenth Engineers, was a visitor at 
the Opeleum House last week. He ex
pects to enter school again and pur
sue his course in building construc
tion.
Animal and Brute.
Broadly speaking, an animal Is any 
living organism other than a plant, 
a creature that has some mode of 
reproduction and of respiration. The 
term "brute refers to one of the 
higher quadruped'?, such as cows, 
horses, (logs, or to any animal lower 
than man. In a restricted sense the 
term animal is often used as a 
synonym for brute.
On Tuesday Techs tennis aggre
gation defeated the strong Westtninster team. The score, 5 to 1, is not 
much of an indication as to the kind 
of raquetting done, as the game put 
up by both teams was of champion
ship variety.
Singles.
BeattyTech .......................................66
CummingsWestminster ..............11
StockslagerTech ..............................7g
ShottWestminster .........................32
CapleyTech ........................................G(5
CampbellWestminster ................00
HarknessTech ...................................G6
JohnstonWestminster .................l2
Doubles.
Harkness and Schmertz
Tech ..............................................743
Cummings and Campbell
Westminster ..............................566
Griffiths and CopleyTech___ 66
Shott and Johnston  West
minster .......................................... 31
The tennis match scheduled for 
last Thursday with W. & J. was call
ed off at the last minute by the Red 
and Black officials,' who claimed tihat 
several of their players had left 
school and- their team broken up. 
This is unfortunate as another win 
with W. & J. would have tied the 
score.
Donaldson of W. & J., is said to 
have assured Manager jSIuttall of the 
Tech team that a third match would 
be played between the two teams. 
However, as far as W. & J. is con
cerned the season is officially closed 
and W. & J. are the Western Penn
sylvania champions, much to the 
chagrin of the Tecliites.
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON
SHOES ID HOSIER ...........PENN IB FBIKSIOWN
Footprints Lead to Detection
The standing of a man is as often 
as not told by his footwearIf be is 
careless of that, he's apt to be negli
gent of more important things. If 
you will buy your shoes here, you may 
be certain of looking all right, feeling 
all right and impressing others with 
the fact that you are all right." Our 
Shoes arc built by some of the most 
representative Shoe Manufacturers in 
the world.
$3.50 to $10.00 the Pair. Special Mens Dept.
There will be a football meeting* held in Room 209 Science 
on Thursday, June 12, at 4:10 P. M. for the purpose of getting 
acquainted with the fellows who expect to come out for foot
ball, so we will be able to send them information concerning 
fall training:, during the summer.
R. O. T. c. SPRING TO ACTIVITY
By the interruption of a trustees 
meeting in the presidents office Inst 
Wednesday afternoon the new artil
lery tractors announced their arrival 
upon the campus six five-ton Reo 
tractors, camouflaged ready for any 
emergency, were the first of the 
equipment of the field artillery unit 
to arrive at Tech.
Members of t'he R. O. T. C. have 
been instructed in the  operation of 
these tractors at the rate of about 
twenty a day. Trallors for these 
tractors upon which to amount lighl 
guns are already in Pittsburgh, but 
have not yet been delivered to the
school.
The field artillery seems to bo by 
far the most popular of t'he li. O. T. 
C. units. Lieutenant Colonel Leon 
R. Cole, who was recently decorated 
with the Croix de Guerre, is in 
Charge of the Field Artillery Unit. 
His staff consists of the following of
ficers: Major J. E. Wilkinson, Cap
tain Hugh Reilly, Captain 11. W. 
Bill and Captain C. C. Knight.
Major H. W. Holland of tho Engi
neers, is in charge of the Enignoer 
unit. No officer has as yet been de
tained: to the Signal Corps Unit. He 
will be here, however, to start work 
in tho fall.
1 Students Wclcome
FRED SUDDABYS 
CAFETERIA 
(.I BUREAU OF MINES BLDG.
11 A. M. to 2 P. M.
Every school day.
Two kinds of pride are difficult for 
normal persons to understandthat 
of a dark past and that of a piffling 
descenant for his distinguished an
cestors.
ftmmxmmnmmmnmxmmmxmmm;*
TRANSITS AND LEVELS 
H ALL SUPPLIES FOR THE 
DRAFTING ROOM
[a ____________________Great Eats at 
tin THE SCHENLEY LUNCH 
};!] FORBES AND CRAIG STS. 
Fred Suddaby, Propr.
Engineers Equipment, Instai- : 
ments of Precision, Blue Print 
and Brown Print Papers and 
Cloths.
B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
I 126 SIXTH STREET
TENNDO
lerrto
CLUETT- PEABODY- Co : I PAG TROYNY
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 11, 1919
BELLEFIELD SHOE 
REPAIRING
FORBES STREET 
Opposite Carnegie Library. 
High class work done while you 
wait.
I. SCHWARTZ 
LOW PRICES TO TECH 
STUDENTS 
Give us a trial.
CHURCHES
ST. PAULS CATHEDRAL 
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.
Masses: 6:30, 8:00, 9:00, 10:00 and
11:00 A M. on Sundays and Holy 
Days.
Vespers on Sundays at 7:30 P. M. 
Pew 58 Middle Aisle for Tech Stu
dents.
Third United
* Presbyterian Church
Shady and Northumberland Avenues
: Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M.
' Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M. and 
8:00 P. M.
Young Peoples Service, 7:00 P. M. 
Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages. 
A cordial welcome to all.
Grace Church
(Reformed)
BAYARD and DITHRIDGE STREETS 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister 
SERVICES:
Sunday School9:45 A. M.
Morning Worship11 A. M. 
Christian Endeavor7 P. M. 
Popular Evening Services at 7:45. 
Sermons for Head and Heart. 
Hearty Welcome for All.
BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN  
CHURCH 
Bellefield and Fifth Avenues J 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D.,  
Minister.
Preaching Services 11 and 8. 
Sunday school at 10. j*
Christian Endeavor at 7.
We want the Tech boys to attend our services and iearn to 
know us as the congregation of * 
"Friendly People. A hearty X 
welcome awaits you.
.ASCENSION EPISCOPAL CHURCH 
IjEHsworth Avenue and Neville Street 
DR. WYATT BROWN Rector 
DR. ROSS R. CALVIN, Assistant. 
Sunday Services, 8:00 a. m., 11:00 
m. and 8:00 p. m.
College Mens Bible Class at 10:00, 
d by Dr. Calvin.
All Students Genuinely Welcome.
TYPEWRITERS AND 
ADDING MACHINES
All makes sold, rented and 
repaired; allowing rental to ap
ply on purchase.
Underwoods Our Specialty
Written guarantee with each 
machine. Victor and Fox 
agency.FORT PITTTYPEWRITER CO.
428 FOURTH AVENUE 
Near Post Office 
Phone Court 866.
DELICIOUS CAKES
SOCIAL AFFAIRS
CHE HALLER BAKERY
3610 FORBES STREET 
IROQUOIS BLOCK
GET YOUR HAIR CUT
IECH BARBER SIP
NEAREST TO TECH
Cor. Craig and Forbes
FRED FARUEL, Proprietor. 
Nearest and Best Laundry 
Agency.
Sec Business Manager j
THESE SMALL 
SPACESPAY
PHILIPINO MISSION TO 
WASHINGTON WAS HERE
The educational section of the 
Philipino delegation that is presenting 
the case of the Pliilipinos at Washing
ton were the guests of the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology last ween., 
and made an inspection trip with Dean 
Arthur W. Tarbell through the in
stitution.
This section, composed of Dean 
Conrade Banitoz of the College of 
Liberal Arts of the Phiilipine Univer
sity in Manilla and Professors Palma 
and Santos, were under the guidance 
of William L. Munro, general manager 
of the American Window Glass Com
pany, who was the representative of 
the Chamber of Commerce in charge 
of the entertainment of the distin
guished visitors.
Professor Rafael Palma is the vice 
chairman of the Mission to America, 
and in his own land is a prominent 
man, being the secretary of the In
terior of the Phiilipine Government 
and Senator in the Phiilipine Con
gress, representing the Fourth Dis
trict, which embraces Manilla.
Professor Jose A. SantOz, is the As
sistant Attorney General of the Phii
lipine Government and the Technical 
Advisor of the Mission in this coun
try
The Mission has already presented 
its case to the Government at Wash 
ington, and is on its way home, stop 
ped at Tech, only for an inspection 
trip to carry home some of the Ameri
can innovations of the institution.
TECH LOSES TO 
STATE IN BASE BALL
Penn State defeated Coach Wag
ners baseball team at State College, 
Saturday, by the score of 9 to 0. The 
game was the first of two games to be 
played during State commencement 
week and was witnessed by a large 
crowd.
Ivroog, the State burlier, was In
vincible at all times, Pat Hoban col
lected the only hit made from his de
livery. Eleven hits coupled with three 
errors accounted for the nine runs 
that State accumulated. Tech will try 
to even up, the series when the two 
teams meet 011 Tuesday. Summary:
Carnegie Tech.
Oakley, rf. .. 
Abrams, mf. 
Gates. 3b. .. 
Gretzr, p. 
Lynn, ss. 
Lundel, 2b. . 
Godden, lb. . 
Hoban, If. 
Tucker, c. .. 
Weiss, p.
Penn State.
Killger, 2b .......................
Korb, ss. ..........................
Knapp, lb...........................
Millan, mf.................
Lightr, If.............................
Baubtz, 3 b.........................
Gramly, rf.........................
Craig, c...............................
Kroog, p. ............................ 0
Total ..................
R.H."P.CXAE.
. 00200
0020I
00030
. 00030
. 00030
. 00410
. 00300
. 01201
. 0()600
. 00000
. 0I2-193
R.II.P.A.E.
, 1
2
.1
1
4
1
321
. 12800
. 32000
. 13100
. 10I30
. 02000
01100
0120
. 91127103
N. M. D. GIRLS 
OFFERED SUMMER WORK
Through Miss Holmes, vocational 
advisor at Margaret- Morrison, live 
girls of the Junior Class of the 
Household Economics Department 
have secured positions as food chem
ist's for tihe H. J. Heinz Company. 
Each girl will be sent to a catsup 
factory in one of the Western States 
or in Canada. She will be the'only 
chemist in the plant and the entire 
work of testing the tomatoes will 
depend upon her. The girls will 
leave as soon as school is over and 
will not return until the middle of 
October. They will be permitted to 
make up the work of the fall term 
of 1919 w'hich they will miss.
This is only one of the opportuni
ties for summer work which Mar
garet Morrison girls have been of
fered. The Arts and Crafts Depart
ment has received' applications for 
girls to teach basketry, pottery and 
similar subjects in the city play
grounds. Sewing teachers for play
grounds have also been requested.
Various camps throughout the 
country have applied for instructors 
in outdoor sports. A pleasant vaca
tion *as well as good experience is 
offered in this kind of work.
AT THE THEATERS
Pittsburghs Million Dollar Grnnd 
day morning, June 9, when Norma 
Talmadge \yill be shown in her latest 
Select photo-drama, The New Moon. 
This picture will head a high class and 
entertaining bill. It is one of the 
strongest dramas of the year, and is 
expected to fill the attractive audi
torium of the Grand at every perfor
mance next week. In it Miss Talmadge 
has done exceptional work, and she has 
had the support of a cast including 
some of the best actors of the screen.
Every baby has the right to be born 
of parents who think he is better and 
prettier than any other baby.
07816101

---------------------------------------------------

!lli^VRIGLEYS^il!JUICY FRUIT
DfHJBLEMLNT
The longest  
lasting benefit, 
the greatest 
satisfaction for 
your sweet 
tooth.
WRIGLEYS
in the sealed 
packages.
Air-tight and 
impurity-proof.
a# WfcrAw G J wo.BO-RFECT GUM ,
SEALED TIGHT 
KEPT RIGHT
WRAPPED IN _^WRiGLEYS
EWING GUM T
The
Flavor
Lasts
IF you want the best pipe 
that can be made, you 
can get it in a W D Cup 
to $6. If you want the best 
genuine French Briar that 
as little as 75 cents will buy, 
you can get it in aWDC. 
American made, in all sizes 
and styles, and sold at the 
best shops.
TRADE
No man ever lmd n better 
pipe thnn this one. Care
fully selected genuine 
French Briar, a sterling 
ring and vulcanite bit, hand fitted and finished 
by an expert
WM. DEMUTH & CO.. New York 
World'b Largest Pipe Manufacturer
Hart Schaffner Sc tViarx
FOR YOUNG MEN
In all the newest styles, 
including waist - seam models, displayed in an 
unusually large choice 
of fabrics, patterns and colorings  at 
the low prices of
Fourth Floor
PAGE FOUR
Oakland 
Community House
3904 FORBES STREET
You are urged to make use of the 
POOL ROOM 
READING ROOM REST ROOM
House open from 9 A. M.11 P. M. 
EVERYBODY WELCOME
iinfflmnntmnmwmmmmmmwfflnfflmmimnminifflimmmnnnmntnHOTEL HENLEY
-----------at------------
SC HENLEY PARK
il I il.:| ui.'i il imi I iLii' i il I il li 11.11. ...............
SKI BO INN
TrnmmmwmimmHmMmmmmmimmmwmmwmwinmmmmmmmmDO YOU DANCE?
DANCING LESSONS CLASS AND PRIVATE
JACQUES' DANCING ACADEMY 
CRAIG AND FORDES BELL PHONE
NlflMNNIOllS' CLASSES MONDAY AND FRIDAY 
ADVANCED CLASS WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY imimmmmmmmmmmmimmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmnnmmtmmm
lifrVPENT! GB T
F
EHVREH!
HMA ' x 
iA'LU \.idlL.A![ ]U9.]U t 
WANTS YOU !
CoR.FaRBE5 5T.f3]MuRR/vr EIALL__________rP*fa|?T.>
BENJAMIN F. FARBER, MINISTER 
Formerly Religiousand Welfare Workerwith A. E. F. 
EVERY SUNDAY MORNING AT 11 A. M.
On Sunday evenings at 8 P. M. a series of patri
otic-religious sermons based on Dr. Farber's over
seas" experiences.
JUNE 15, GEN. FOGH THE GREAT LEADER
minniniiiiiiiiiitiiuiiiiiuiiiiuiiniiiiiiiiuiQiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiitiiiiiiiui
d!LL.l
i?e
i.IA]
CITY, ELECTRIC CO.
ii^iij^ijt!jijin2jsii/iiiii^iiy^ n^iMniMi/Dr^11
OAKLAND EXPRESS AND 
TRANSFER COMPANY
436 SEVENTH AVE.
All Kinds of Batteries 
Repaired and Recharged
i:iiluii'i!.ii!i'.!:'ilT.n:ii'i.iHii;iniiiiiiiiiii:ii:i.iiiii:iii:iui:iiui:ii:ii:)i:ii:r,!iar.iiiiii!;iu,,ui!iiiiii.ii^
THESE SMALL 
SPACES
Bell Phones 578 and 9169 
S.chenley P. & A. 1092-R 
229 ATWOOD STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA. '
Household Goods Moved, Stored, 
Packed and Shipped.
I
gKm
&
See Business Manager
COSMOPOLITAN CLUB
A smoker was held Thursday, May 
2!), at the Industries Club Room, 
which served In a material way to ce
ment the feelings of co operation and 
mutual understanding between 'the 
members of the club and their friends. 
All present were made to understand 
the purposes and ideals of Such a club, 
Its needs and possibilities.
Of special Importance was the pre
sentation by men who had been asso 
dated with Cosmopolitan Clubs at 
other universities, of the work accom
plished In various other chapters. Mr 
Moore, at present connected with the 
Y. M. C. A at the University of Pitts
burgh, who for many years was in in
timate touch with the Cosmopolitan 
Club at Cornell University, gave an in
teresting account of the activities 
there, explaining the functions and 
purposes of the various national and 
International nights, which brought 
before all the members, a living pic
ture of life and conditions in other 
countries.
Deans Bossinge and Mott explained 
the mission of men sojourning in a 
foreign country to put forth the best 
things their countries Offer, thus add
ing something worth while to th 
welfare of the countdy they are living 
In, and also serving to create bonds of 
good feeling and understanding be
tween the countries of their "birth and 
adoption. Every nation and people 
has something of value to give to othei 
countries and instead of becoming as
similated, they should endeavor to bt> 
distinctively individual.
Besides being enlightened and en
tertained, all those present had an en
joyable evening. Mr. Gladstein was 
on hand with his faithful wand and a 
borrowed deck of cards. Refreshments 
and smokes were served.
Among those present were Professor 
W. R. Work and other friends of the 
club.
Interest in the club is rapidly in
creasing, and the Cosmopolitan is look
ing forward to next year as a Lime for 
the execution of their many plans for 
greater success.
TECH WALLOPS GROVE CITY IN TENNIS
The Tech tennis team defeated the 
team from Grove City last Saturday, 
the score being 5 to 1. The feature 
match was the doubles match with 
Capt. Beatty and Stockslager playing 
championship tennis against the Alex
ander Bros, of Grove City. The team 
pair won, score (5-1, 0-2. Harlcness 
played well in an interesting singles 
match with L. Alexander, Grove Citys 
strongest man, Harlcness winning.
Under the able coaching of. Col. 
Brooks, I-Iarkness has developed Into a 
very aggressive player.
Copley, the only Tech man, to lose 
his match, sprained his side in prac
tice, Friday afternoon, and could not 
extend himself to the limit. It is 
doubtful whether Copley will be able 
to play in the Pitt match Wednesday, 
its his side Is giving him much trou
ble. Bob Schmertz Is developing into 
n good man in doubles play, as was 
shown by his good Avork wli.li Harkno.ss against; Hoban and Gregory, oi 
Grove City.
For the visitors, W. Alexander put 
up the host game. He Is only a Fresh
man nt Grove City, and has good pros, 
poets of becoming a tennis star.
The last match of the season will 
ho with Pitt t)ii the Tech courts. Pitt 
Is out to revenge the 5-1 dofeat. admin
istered to them by Tech earlier in the 
season.
The Pitt, games always draw big 
crowds and we owe the tennis team the 
best support we can command. Every
one who can possibly be present 
should attend what promises to be a 
fitting climax to the successful season 
of the tennis team.
Summary of the Grove City match
is:
Singles.
Beatty(Capt.)Tech ............ G 6.
HobanGrove City ..................... 2 2
CopleyTech ....................................4 5 21
W. AlexanderGrove City....6 1 6
HarlcnessTech ..............................G 5 G
L. AlexanderGrove City____4 7 2
StockslagerTech ....................... G 6
GregoryGrove City ................... 0 1
Doubles.
Beatty and StockslagerTecli. 6 6
Alexander Bros.Grove City.. 1 2
Harlcness & SclimertzTech.. 6 6
Gregory & HobanGrove City 0 0
GYMNASIUM RECOMMENDED 
AS WAR MEMORIAL FOR TECH
The erection of a war memorial gym 
nasium on the Tech campus, in honor 
of its 28 sons and one daughter who 
gave their lives in the service of Lbeir 
country, has been recommended unani
mously by the special committee of 
the institution.
The report has been accepted by 
trustees memorial committee, and has 
been submitted to the board of trus
tees at a special meeting. Col. S. H. 
Church, chairman of the board of trus
tees, in discussing the probable ac
tion of the body in the matter, said:
Our friend. President Arthur A, 
Iiamerschlag, has such a winning way 
of putling the projects up to us and 
making the trustees find the money to 
finance them, I suppose he will be 
successful in this case. Of course, the 
matter will need serious considera
tion, as it will require a large expen
diture of funds.
President Iiamerschlag said that 
the Institute has long needed a gym
nasium and would secure one even
tually, and that he believed the rec
ommendation of the memorial commit
tee would greatly accelerate the mat
ter.
Judge James R. Macfarlane submit
ted the report, being the chairman of 
the memorial committee. Dr. T. S. 
Baker, secretary of Tech, served in 
the same capacity on the committee, 
which includes in its personnel the 
following memibers either of the trus
tees, faculty or alumni of the institu
tion :
William McConway, Sr., A. J. Wurts, 
John T. Morris, Eugene F. Savage, 
Dean Frank P. Day, Miss Kate Gor 
don, Miss C. G. Davidson, Victor A. 
Rigoumont. E. R. Botts, W. H. Ritts 
and Mrs. Ida A. Redenbaugli
Tlie committees report suggested 
that there be special memorial fea
tures arranged both on the exterior 
and in the interior of the symnasium. 
It advocated the placing of a tower 
with a bell on it and asked that a hall 
and entrance be so laid out that there 
would be space for memorial tablets. 
The report favored further that stu
dents and alumni be given an oppor 
tuniLy Lo select and contribute for 
some definite thing in the building. 
The committee also recomemnded that 
in carrying out the memorial features, 
the varied work done by the insliLute 
during the war be commemorated.
A memorial pageanl will be presented, according to an announcement 
made by Dr. Baker, on the night of 
June 2Gthe eve of the commence
ment exercises of the instiutionIR 
the honor of the students who died in 
the service. Members of the School 
of Drama of Tech will stage the princi
pal parts in the patriotic procession. 
Although the pageant plans are still 
incomplete, It is likely that other stu
dentsthose from the various ^depart
ments that lost some of their boys 
will participate.
Prof. Thomas W. Stevens, head of 
the Dramatic School, is writing the 
pageant. B. Iden Payne, noted New 
York slage dlrecLor and an intimate 
friend of Dr. 'Stevens, is now a visitor 
at Tech. If Mr. Pay lie decides to re
main over, according to a statement 
by the drama school director, he will 
likely have a hand in arranging the 
production.
Miss Harriet Ellis, a graduate of the 
Margaret Morrison Carnegie School, 
was the only Tech girl Lo give her life 
in Lhe service, dying in Engand of in
fluenza. Richard Mansfield, son of Lhe 
famous actor of the same name, was 
another Tech student to die while in 
uniform. Oihers were:
Capt. Arthur II. McGill, Lleuts. L. H. 
Boss, Clyde A. Trotter, H. F. Engelbreclit, L. A. Edens, John Stone, son 
of former Gov. William A. Stone; 
Howard E. Gormley, W. C. Acheson 
and N. P. Lugan; Frank B. Jamieson, 
11. W. Henderson, H. J. Scobell, Fran
cis F Hogan, Frank T. Tucker, Sergt. 
Hans Heilman, Ensign W. F. Welsh, 
Harry W. Miller, W. W. Craig, Roy A. 
Perine, Frank M. Pickens, Charles D. 
Raymond, R. W. Spring, WalLer Crellin, Charles Hyde, Elmer E. Cromer, 
Harry Oakes and Lewis Goth.
j FRATERNITY NOTES 
x~x"x^^x~x~x~>:~x^x~x~:~>
Z. L. E .
Brothers Bossart and Bogardus have 
been visitors at the house in the last 
few days.
We hear a good deal of old-fash
ioned honesty, but not much of the 
old-fashioned dishonesty that was at 
its best in a liorse trade.
Vate Butts has presented the fra
ternity with a Spandau machine gun, 
which he brought from some part of 
France where the Germans abandoned 
jt. The gun, a 1017 model, Is a perfect, 
specimen and after a litle oiling aiid 
cleaning the action works as smooth
ly at is ever did. Tills Is certainly 
an Interesting trophy to add to Z. L. 
E.s growing collection.
Artificial Leather.
A recent American patent relates to 
the production of artificial leather, and 
consists in applying to a fabric base a 
coating containing nitrated cotton and 
a vegetable oil and a super-imposed 
baked coating of a leathor-japauning 
composition.
THE AVO CLUB TO HOLD BARN PICNIC
The Avo Club, Division of Industries, 
will hold a barn picnic, June 6, at 
West Hoffman, Pa., on the Butler 
Short Line. It will be at the home of 
one of the members.
Already, the invitations ar out, Mr. 
and Mrs. C. B. Connelley, Mr." and Mrs. 
H. A. Colderwood, Mr. and Mrs. J. S. 
Dodds, Mr. and Mrs. A E. Mayo being 
invited to act as chaperons Some of 
the members present will be present 
also.
The interesting point about the pic
nic is the fact that, an entire system 
of lighting was installed by the mem
bers expressly for this occasion. A 
special car lias been chartered and a 
good time is assured for every one. 
Mr. and Mrs. J. S. Dodds and Mr. and 
Mrs. Calderwood have announced 
their intention to come.
CLASS ELECTIONS
Owing to the shortness of time 
the Junior and Sophomore classes of 
the Science School decided not to 
hold elections for new class officers 
but to retain the old officers for the 
remainder of the school year.
Supposing this is a vale of tears, 
theres no reason why you should make 
it an ocean of them.
| Oakland Savings & Trust Co.
j| Member of Federal Reserve System.
 THE OAKLAND BANK ft
 CAPITAL,................................................................................................$200,000.00 11
HH SURPLUS,...............................................................................................$200,000.00 H
H DEPOSITS OVER $3,000,000.00 it
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
R V  T* * B E W I S  C O .......I
COMMERCIAL
INVITATIONS
TICKETS
DANCE PROGRAMS AND FRATERNITYPRINTING
Phipps Power Building 'i
Bell Phone 4418 Court Pittsburgh, Pa. |
OAKLAND HARDWARE COMPANY
Baseballs and Gloves
3606 FORBES STREET
Tennis Balls
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 11, 1919
