LAST ISSUE 
OF
THE TARTAN(J1}t daran
INDUSTRIES 
COMMENCEMENT 
FRIDAY, MAY 24
VOL. XII. NO. 32.CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAMAY 23, 1918
PATRIOTIC PAGEANT TO BE GIVEN BY STUDENTS TO AID STAMP SALE
Thomas Wood Stevens Re
tells Histoiy of France in 
Joan of Arc
B. IDEN PAYNE ASSISTS
That all true Americans may be 
made to understand and appreciate 
the better the sacrifice patriots are 
ready arid willing to make for the coun
try they love and ito which they owe 
allegiance by virtue oE protection giv
en t.hem; that they may familiarize 
themselves with what history points 
out as the greatest of all such sacri
fices, and may draw from his knowl
edge a lesson of inestimable worth in 
this time of stress, a true version, in 
pageant form, of Joan of Arc, the 
deliverer of France in the Fifteenth 
century, by Thomas Wood Stevens, 
liead of the Drama, Department De
sign School, will be presented at Syria 
'Mosque, May 31 and June 1, under the 
auspices of the Womans War Savings 
Council'of Pittsburgh.
There are two objects in presenting 
this pageant. The first is for the pur
pose of raising funds with which to 
 carry on the campaign to sell stamps 
in the Pittsburgth district, and there
fore raise that money expected from 
the city and adjoining county. The 
.second is to bring with greater force 
to patriotic Americans the lesson of 
.sacrifice and of duty to country. From 
the story of the Maid of Domremy 
there is much to learn of sacrifice to 
the cause of right, and it is this, lesson, 
devoid of all romanticism, which many 
writers are wont to weave about the 
peasant girl, that Mr. Stevens, together 
with the help of B. Iden Payne, direc' tor of the Frohman Theatrical Com
pany will present with a cast of Drama 
Students.
History vouches for the fact that 
the life of Joan of Arc is the only one 
known which is attested from begin
ning to end, and in which every detail 
has been carefully followed and placed 
on record. The materials with which 
Mr. Stevens has worked are those giv
en in detail in the official archives of 
France, relating to the trial of the 
Maid of Orleans.. He has given no at
tention to the great'sheaves of fiction, 
inspired by authors who have seen in 
Joan a subject for much remanticism, 
but has remained religiously by fact.
The pageant will open with a scene 
introducing Mother France, wfio reads 
from a huge book the trials of the 
heroine. She is telling the story to 
her children and to the children of 
the world. The performance begins 
with a prologue, dealing not with Joan 
herself, but with the Trial of the Re
habilitation, 24 yearsafter her death, 
the trial in which the sentence of death 
by burning at the stake was officially 
reversed. The pageant is to be a 
speaking dramatization of the case as 
it was presented, there being fully 45 
speaking parts. Mr. 'Stevens, is among 
the first writers of pageants to devi ate from the pantomimic type and to 
deal with speaking parts. The first 
scene Will show Joans mother making 
a plea before the ecclesiastical court 
that the verdict be reversed, and that 
lier daughter be decreed officially not 
(Continued on Page Four.)
INDUSTRY EXERCISES 
ON 'FRIDAY, MAY 24
Commencement exercises for the 
graduating class of the School of Ap
plied Industries will be held-, in the 
Little Theater in the Design Build
ing, Friday evening, May 24.
President Hamerschlag will preside 
and present the degrees, diplomas and 
certificates. The Commencement ad
dress will be given by Frederick Wil
liam Hamilton, LL.D., President of 
Tufts College from 1905 to 1913, and 
now Director of Education for the 
United Typothetae of America.
Several musical numbers will be 
rendered by students of the Depart
ment of Music.
President and Mrs. Hamerschlag 
and Dean and Mrs. Connelley will 
meet the graduates and their parents 
in the foyer of the Design Building 
after the program.
MAY FESTIVAL PROVES 
TO BE GREAT SUCCESS
A large and appreciative audience 
witnessed the May Festival presented 
by the Maragaret Morrison Athletic 
Association last Friday afternoon. The 
festival, which was given on Mellon 
Lawn, was the best which has so far 
been given at Tech. Much of its suc
cess was due to the untiring efforts 
of the two athletic instructors, Miss 
Coleman and Miss Browning.
Following the Village Children, 
the procession started with Rachel 
Betty as Tucket, who preceded the 
May Queen (Florence Bechtel), 
Jacks-o-the-Green, the Fiddler (Har
riet Stone), and the assembled danc
ers. Marian Keefer and Phyllis McMarlin as the Jacks-o-tlie Green 
received rounds of applause fqr their 
well executed dance. The ?Spirits of 
tho Woodland were-Ida Richter, Hel
en 'Semi, Carrie Freese and Lucile 
Wakefield. The "Spirits of the Wares, 
Blanche Sheppard, Emily King and 
Glenn Sheriff. The Milkmaids were 
all members of the class of 1918. The 
Junior Class contributed the Gar
land Dance. The Sophomore Class 
represented the Village Lads and 
Maidens. The Plebes wound the May
pole and also danced a Morris Dance. 
The. festival was concluded with all 
joining in St. Legers Round and the 
singing of the Evening Hymn.
The Tech Band furnished the mu
sic for the festival.
THISTLE
TO HOLDERS OF THISTLE RECEIPTS:
Owing to causes which are entirely beyond the control of 
the 1918 Thistle Board, it will be impossible to have the Thistle 
ready for distribution before the close of school. This will 
necessitate mailing the books. The following plan has been 
worked out: Holders of Thistle receipts will bring them to the 
Student Activities office on the top floor of the Central Build
ing, at the times indicated below, and pay the remainder due on 
their Thistle, for which a new receipt will be issued. To cover 
the cost of packing and postage, a charge of 25 cents per book 
will have to be collected at this time also. At the time of 
making this payment, the address to which the books shall be 
sent, will be taken. Remember, the stub in your athletic ticket 
book is worth 25 cents.
Monday.........................................11:30 to 12:30
Tuesday......................................... 11:30 to 1:30
Wednesday...................................11:30 to 12:30
Thursday....................................... 11:30 to 12:30
1:30 to 2:30
jjj Friday............................................. 8:30 to 9 ;30
I 11:30 to 12:30
TECB TRACK TEAM SHOWS GOOD FORM IN INTERCOLLEGIATE MEET AT OVAL
HOME ARTS AND CRAFTS 
EXHIBITION A SUCCESS
The exhibition of the Home Arts 
and Crafts Department of M. M. C. S. 
oiTivi'onday, May 20, was particularly 
successful. The many pretty things 
were all shown to the very best ad
vantage by artistic lighting and . plac
ing. The light was furnished entirely 
by pink candles, which had very odd 
and picturesque shades arid holders. 
On the walls of the room hung many 
designs of charcoal and water color, 
so arranged as to give a soft and rest
ful color scheme.
The display of pottery Was varied 
as it was lovely, the pots being of all 
color and of all sizes and kinds.  Perliaps most admired of all were the 
beautiful hand-painted ' scarfs, of fine 
goods and pretty shades and designs. 
The dainty attractive jewelry, dis
played inside glass cases as though 
too tempting, was a complete mystery 
of workmanship to the uninitiated. Op
posite the jewelry display, on a long 
table, tea was served. On the table 
were four great candlesticks which 
shed their pleasing light over the tea 
service, and a great wonderful bowl of 
deep pink rhododendon. Other flow
ers were scattered here and there, 
through the room, and plants were ar
ranged about the door. All who 
came admired the charming effect of 
the exhibition as a whole, and the 
skillful wrorkmansliip of its parts, and 
there was a general tendency to linger 
in the Arts and Crafts room beyond 
the usual afternoon tea time.
FACULTY MEMDER GIVEN. 
DINNER DY JUNIORS
A dinner was given at the Rlttenlious on May-15, by the Junior class of 
M. M. C. S., in honor of their faculty 
member, Miss Henrietta Browning. 
Decorations were carried out in the 
class colors, purple and gold, and the 
twenty-eight girls present enjoyed the 
following menu:
Chicken Patties 
Buttered Peas 
Fried New Potatoes 
Corn Muffins 
Celery, Apple and Pecan Salad 
French 'Strawberry Cream 
Cakes 
Coffee 
Mints
Original place cards, made by 
Dorothy Harlow, social chairman, were 
attractive and amusing.
Miss Anna McCandless, president of 
the class, spoke on Class Achieve
ments of the Past Year; Miss Mary 
Truman, president of the in-coming 
Senior Class, spoke on Anticipation 
of the Future. Miss  Brownings 
speech and good sound advice for the 
coming year was appreciated and tak
en to heart by every girl present. Kath
erine Kirk presented Miss Browning 
with an over-night bag as a parting 
gift from the class of which she is the 
honorary faculty member. She is 
leaving soon for Wellesley where she 
will resume her work and obtain her 
Master Degree.
Beyond all doubt this gathering was 
the most successful class affair the 
Juniors have held this year; every girl 
entered into it with enthusiasm and a 
deeper, feeling that comes from the 
heart.
Mingled with their regret at losing 
such a perfect adviser and friend, is a 
gladness that she can go on to higher 
and better things arid keep pace with 
her ambition. The sincere and heart
felt wishes of all the girls go with her.
The dinner was followed by an im
promptu movie party at the Liberty 
where Mary Pickford was holding 
forth in MLiss.
BASEBALL TEAM LOSES 
FINAL GAME OF SEASON
In an eiglit-inning rally the Indiana 
Normal team pulled a victory and 
broke a 6 to 6 tie with Carnegie Tech, 
at Indiana, Pa., Wednesday afternoon 
the Normalites winning by an S to G 
score. Indiana took a two-run lead in 
the first inning, but the visitors hit 
timely and tied up in the sixth. The 
game was loosely played by both 
teams and both were guilty of errors 
of omission and commission. The 
score:
INDIANA.R.31.P.A.E.
Hyde, m.......................... 11000
OToole, c....................... 011000
Sapdomire, 3b.2!,130
Ballack, p......................... 01010Campbell, lb. ........ 10510
Kellogg, 2b. . ..1252I-Ially, ss...................... 13702
Bremen, rf. .......... 11001
Hermann, rf....... 01000
Totals .....102710
CARNEGIE.R.H.P.A.E.
Stevenson, lb........ 101001
0100
Dohetry, ss.25420
Gates, If..................... 12400
Zehfus, c........ 00500
Oakley, m............2000
Gretzler, p. .......... 02090
Good, 2b..................... 00041
Hermny, rf. .......... 01000
Totals ........................ 61224152
2 2 10 100*.-8
Carnegie Tech.0 0 2 2 2000--6
STUDENTS TAKE PART 
IN SATURDAYS PARADE
Tech was well represented in the 
Re'd Cross Parade last Saturday after
noon, the girls of the auxiliaries turn
ing out and making a very good show
ing. The Tech float, The Spirit of 
the Red Cross, was one of tho best 
and most artistic in the entire parade. 
The float showed the Spirit of he Red 
Cross enchroned, with the Allied Na
tions grouped at her feet. A great 
deal of credit for managing the divis
ion and overlooking the whole repre
sentation is due to Miss Ellen Crowe, 
who is always active in work of this 
kind. Those who appeared on the 
float were:
Spirit of the Red Cross, Alex Einert. 
\merica, Violnnte Bollinger, 
t' rance, Ruth Farmer;
England, Jamos Church.
 Armenia, Mary Ricards.
Belgium, Alicia Guthrto and M. MeAteer.
Roumania, Minnette Buddeclce.
Italy, 'Hugo Taustirie.
Japan, Lawrence Paquln.
Servia, Jack Wolcott.
PROF. STEVENS LEAVES 
FOR FRANCE IN JUNE
Prof. Stevens, head of the Drama 
Department of the School of Applied 
Design, leaves us next month for 
France. His duties will bo to provide 
entertainment for the soldiers. He 
will train the soldiers to give plays of 
their own. He, with Joseph Linden 
Smith, a Boston artist, as an asso
ciate, will provide amusement for the 
Sammies.
While we regret to have Prof. Ste
vens leave us, Ave know Lhiit he will be 
doing his bit. The be'st wishes of 
air the students and friends go with 
him.
Take Second Place in Spite 
of Handicap
TWO PROGRAMS FINISH 
MUSIC STUDENTS YEAR
Two-base hitsDoherty, Breman. 
Three-base hitSandomire, Kellogg. 
Sacrifice hitsBreman and I-Iarrick. 
Stolen basesSandomire, 3; Kellogg, 
I-Ially, Gates, 2; Oakley, 2. Bases on 
ballsOff Ballack, 2; off Gretzler, 4. 
Struck outBy Bellack, 8; by Gretzlcr, 4. Hit by pitcherBy Bellack, 1 
(Good). HitsOff Bellack, 12; off 
Gretzler, 10. UmpireDaugherty.
OFFICIAL ANNOUNCEMENT
* During the summer of 1918  
I* courses of instruction will be of?I* fered in the several schools, be* ginning July 1. Many of the 
* courses will offer opportunities *
* for making up of deficiencies.  
*!? The Summer School Bulletin, giv* ing full information covering the  
I- work which is to go forward on 
* the Campus this summer, will be 
* ready for distribution in the Registrars Office on May 27.
* Summer Military Camp.
J* The Institute will conduct un* der canvas a six-weeks military 
* training course at Schenley Oval  
?I* beginning July 1, and ending Au* gust 10. Those intending to en* roll in the camp should notify 
* the Department of Military Sci* ence and Tactics promptly. A  
special circular and application 
* for the camp can be secured at 
* the Registrar's Office on and after 
* May 27.
* Calendar for Autumn Quarter 
* 1918.
The autumn quarter begins for 
*1* day courses on Monday, Septem* her 30, the registration dates be*:? ing September 26 and 27. Night
* classes will begin October 7.
* ALAN BRIGHT,
* Registrar.
* ?*. ?$. * s? -j. % % ?$. % % *
FAREWELL BANQUETiHELD 
BY ALPHA TAU MONDAY
Alpha Tau hold Its farewoll banquet 
at Hotel Chatham Monday evening of 
this week and at that time initiated 
eight men into the fraternity. Those 
taken in at this time were: P. L. A. 
Kaiser, 18; J. W. Batman, 19; W. E. 
Brewer, 19; A. C. Richie, 19; R. F, 
Whitney, '19; L. Dotterway, 19, Marceau, 19, and Graham, '19.
One of the features of the banquet 
was the dedication and presentation 
of a service flag representing 32 of 
the members of the society. The flag 
is the gift of Prof. Donnells.
Dean Connelley made a brief ad
dress, as did several other members 
of the faculty at the School of Applied 
Industries.
BAND MEN THANKED BY' 
MAJOR LYLE FOR WORK
The Band was officially thanked for 
the years work as a military organiza
tion by Major Lyle at battalion review 
Monday afternoon. Major Lyle ex
pects to have a much larger band next 
year, and quite a few new features 
will be observed in management. J. S. 
Rowe, duly elected manager, has as
sumed his duties. He - promises to 
have a larger, better band next year.
S. Alton Smith, who has so ably 
managed the band this year, received 
his draft, notice to report last Friday, 
arid he left Sunday to keep his en
gagement with Uncle Sam. He car
ries with him the best wishes of all 
the band men. Mr. Smith has done 
much toward making the band a suc
cess and. deserves credit for sticking 
through with seeming odds against 
him.
The school takes this opportunity to 
thank all the band men who have 
worked in this activity this year and 
wishes them success in all under 
takings.
It aint the guns nor armaments, nor 
the funds that they can pay, 
But the close co-operation, that makes 
them win the day,
It aint the individual, nor the army 
as a whole,
But the everlasting teamwork of every 
bloomin soul.
Rudyard Kippling.
The two concluding concerts in the 
series for the second serriester of the 
Department of Music, J. Vick OBrien, 
director, were given in the theater of 
the School of Applied Design on Fri
day evening, May 17, and Sunday even
ing, May 19. The Friday program was 
made up entirely of* wood-wlnd ensem
ble, and was very much above the 
average, being highly creditable to 
both students and instructors. The 
difficulty of learning these instruments 
is not generally appreciated by the 
public; a smooth and mellow tone rep
resents tho maximum of careful prac
tice,' and even at that will not. always 
be a certainty.
The Cui Trio, for violin, flute and 
piano, played by C. B. McCUntoclc, 
Francis Kleyle and Miss Louise Hepp, 
was quite Interesting, particularly tho 
Berceuse and Nocturne.
The movement, Modorato con moto, from Rubinstein; Sonata for vio
lin and piano, Op. 13, Mr. Edward 
Strlbeny, violin; Mr. N. FrauonhcUn. 
piano, was an especially creditable 
performance. Mr. Strlbony's work 
was Indicative of careful practlco and 
intelligentat times, artisticInter
pretation, while Mr. Frauonholms 
piano work was kept properly under 
and give artistic finish to tho number, 
which was very cordially received.
Mr. Mitchell played Crusolls An(Cbntlnued on Pago Throe)
ALAN BRIGHT CHOSEN 
AS NEW REGISTRAR
Alan Blight, who graduated In tho 
Class of 1911, Science Electricals, has 
been recently appointed registrar and 
assumed his duties on May 15. Mr. 
Tarbell, former registrar, Is now pur
suing his duties as Acting President 
and also as Dean of the new Central 
School.
No doubt, no better man than Mr. 
Blight could have been secured. He 
is a member of the Sigma Rho Fra
ternity and was very active while 
in school.
The following is his record as taken 
from the 1911 Thistle
Glee Club (1, 2, 3), White Friars (1, 
3), Treas. (2), President (3, 4), Class 
Secretary-Treasurer (3), Board of 
Control (1, 4), President (4), Thistle 
Board (3), Manager Fresh. Football 
Team (1), Assistant Manager Football 
Team (2), Manager Football Team 
(3), Hockey Team (1, 2, 3), CaptainElect Hockey Team (4), President of 
Mho Club (2), Senior Bass Commit
tee (4), .
A Big Man for His Size.
SCORED SIXTY POINTS
SENIORS TO BE GIVEN 
PARTY BY Y. W. C. A.
A very impressive meeting of 'the Y. 
W. C. A. was held last Thursday when 
officers for the coming year were in
stalled. The candle ceremony was 
used, each retiring officer expressing 
a wish for the success of the new of
ficer lighted the candle of her suc
cessor, Miss Holmes had charge of 
the meeting, and the informal discus
sion of plans for the coming year 
showed that every girl meant to loy
ally support the organization In the fu
ture.
The 'Sophomores, have charge of the 
farewell party to bo given May 23, In 
honor of the Seniors, livery girl In 
the Senior class Is asked to make a 
special effort to attend this meeting.
The track team made a very favor
able showing in Pitt's Twelfth Annual 
Intercollegiate meet last Saturday at 
the Schenley Oval. Although they 
did not win the meet, the. showing was 
such that it upholds our old-time 
pep, even though we are at war. Not 
many teams being entered, competi
tion was not as keen as usual. 
Schmidt showed his usual good form, 
but Captain Ellertons injured arm 
hindered him from coming up to his 
record in the shot-put and discus. The 
relay team, consisting of Lingenfelsen. 
Hunter, Russell, and Schmidt, ran a 
fact race and succeeded in surpassing 
Westminster for second place in that 
event.
The Pitt team won the meet, with 
a total number of 133 points. Tech 
came in second with 60 points, and 
Westminster was third. Shea, the 
star of the Pitt aggregation, showed 
his usual form and won the 100-yard 
dash, the 220-yard dash and 440-yard 
run, besides winning places in other 
events. The Pitt relay team, com
posed of Eckhardt, Potors, Speck and 
Shea, won the one-mile relay race, 
College Events.
100-dashShea (Pitt), won; Loughrey (Westminster), second; Peters 
(Pitt), third; Lingonfelser (Tech), 
fourth; Speck (Pitt), fifth. Time,
: 10 2-5.
220-yard dash-Shoa (Pitt), won; 
Loughrey (Westminster), second; 
Spook (Pitt), third; Lingenfolser  
(TCCh), fourth; Potors (Pitt), fifth. 
Time, : 22.
440-yard runShea (Pitt), won; 
Addleinan (Pitt), second; Lingenfolser 
(Tech), third; Schmidt (Tech), 
fourth; Hunter (Teoli), fifth. Time, 
:4S l-r>.
Ilalf-mllo Albright (Pitt), won;
Schmidt, '(Toch), second; HJcklmrdi; 
(Pitt), third; Thomas (Pitt), fourth; 
Addloman (Pitt), fifth. Time, 2:02 3-5.
Ono-mllo runAJbright (Pitt), won; 
Ferguson (Tech), second;; Thomas 
(Pitt), third; Sacks (Tech), fourth; 
Lazar (Toch), fifth. Time, 1:32.
Two-in I lo run -ICIIngonsmlth (Pitt), 
won; Sacks (Toch), second; Maddl3on (IM I), third; U/.er (Toch), 
fourth; Livingston (Tech), fifth. Time, 
10:21.
120-yard high hurdleJordan (Pitt), 
won; Eastorday (Pitt), second; Nich
ols (Pitt), third; Johnson (Westmin
ster), fourth; Arnold (Tech), fifth. 
Time, :17 1-5.
220-yard low hurdles  Eastorday 
(Continued on Pago Three)
MUSICAL CLUOS ELECT 
OFFICERS AT BANQUET
Tho annual banquet of the Musical 
Clubs was held at tlio Craft Avonuo 
Club un Wednosday, April 17. All Inslgnla men wcro present and enjoyed 
a real Long Island duck feast, served 
on Sea Bass.
The work of the past year was 
talked over. The season was consid
ered a great success, and another one 
like it is expected for next year. 
There are some gpod men about the 
school who should endeavor to make 
the clubs next year. Ask the men 
about the concerts and trips.
The following men were elected as officers:
President, Geo. C. Balaurie
Manager, A. F. Faville .
Assistant Manager, T. W. Batman
Publicity Manager, F. Nuttal 
(Continued on Page Three.)
M. M. C. S. WILL GIVE 
BANCE FAR REB CRBSli
The three lower classes.of VI. M. C. 
S. have decided to carry out a sugges
tion made by Dean l^reed a- few days 
ago. The Juniors,- Sophomores and 
Plebes had made arrangements to give 
a dance for the Senior Girls. Dean 
Breed suggested that the money which 
was to have been spent for the dance 
bo given to tho Red Cross fund In the 
name of the Senior Class. Twenty-five 
cents has beon collected froni each 
member of the three lower classes. 
Tho money will be given this week.
If a man look sharp and attentive
ly, he shall see Fortune; for though' 
she Is blind, she is not invisible. 
Bacon.
LOST *----- 
S. A. E. fraternity pin, 'be- *<? 
 tween Forbes Hall and Design' 
School. Return to Martha < 
Klelves.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
fartan
Published every Wednesday by undergraduate of the Carnegie Inatltute of Technology
Entered in tiie postoillce of Pittsburgh as -econd-clas matter.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
Yearly, $1.50 5c the copyCanada, $1.76
Editor-in-chief..................................................................................................LeRoy E, Emerich
T>lw.,w. I 111'....I 09(19
Business Manager
Phone Schenley 220G-.J
Harold R. Titus
EDITORIAL
Managing Editors
L. JO. Emerich 
O. R. OlmHtead 
Assistant Managing Editor 
F. I. Smith 
School Editors
M. M. C. S............................Salome Stamm
Design ......................................J. M. Walcott
IndustriesW. D. Hall 
Science
NightJulius Foster 
Athletic Editor 
H. II. Blau 
Staff Photographer 
William M. Myler, Jr.
M. M. C. S. Assistants 
Marlon Bach
Edith Bra don 
Frances Roberts 
Hazel Shaffer 
Margaret Sondheim 
Helen Young
Other Assistants
Ellen Crowe 
I. Slssman
BUSINESS 
Advertising Manager 
Charles II. Todd 
Assistant 
M. I. Cohen
Circulation Manager
C. L. De Prefontaine 
Assistant 
C. J. Livingstone
TARTAN OFFICE............................................................................................Room 162, Design
Hours2:00 to 4:00 Mondays.
4:30 to 5:00 Wed nesdays and Thursdays.
The Editor-In-Chief Is responsible for the policy of this paper; the Man
aging Editor for tho make up.
All business communications should De sent to the Business Manager 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported 
at once
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the signature to be withheld if desired,
All news items must be In the student postofflce, Central Building, before 
noon on Mondays.
IN CONCLUSION
This issue marks the close of the Tartans work for this school 
y.ear. The work will begin in Fall beginning with the first week oif 
school as usual. Its path this year has been an uphill one, at times 
only one or two men getting out the regular weeks issue. The Tar
tan staff has tried to be of the greatest service possible to everyone 
and has tried to please its readers to the greatest extent. It is hoped 
that this has been accomplished and that criticism will be limited 
owing to unsettled conditions.
'Calls have been made for volunteers, time and time again, but 
still the staff lacks in numbers.
Unusually good opportunities for positions are presenting them
selves every day for work and as a final appeal to the students, a last 
call is made for students wishing to compete for vacant positions. 
The tardiness oi! this issue is largely due to the failure of some valu
able men to come out. As these men are depended on to a great cx 
tent, the work was hindered badly.
In order to provide military instruction for the college 
students of the country during the present emergency, a com
prehensive plan will be put in effect by the War Department, 
beginning with the next college year, in September, 1918. 
The details remain to be worked out, but in general the plan 
will be as follows;
Military instruction under officers and non-commissioned 
officers of the Army will be provided in every institution of 
college grade, which enrolls for the instruction 100 or more 
able-bodied students over the age of eighteen. The necessary 
military equipment will, so far as possible, be provided by 
the Government. There will be created a military training 
unit in each institution. Enlistment will be purely voluntary 
but all students over the age of eighteen will be encouraged 
to enlist. The enlistment will constitute the student a mem
ber of the Amy of the United States, liable to active duty at 
the call of the President. It will, however, be the policy of 
the Government not to call the members of the training units 
to active duty until they have reached the age of twenty-one, 
unless urgent military necessity compels an earlier call. Stu
dents under eighteen and therefore not legally eligible for 
enlistment; will be encouraged to enroll in the training units. 
Provisions will be made for co-ordinating, the Reserve Offi
cers Training Corps system, which exists in about one-third 
of the collegiate institutions with this broader plan.
This nfew policy aims to accomplish a two-fold object: 
First, to develop as a great military asset the large body of 
young men in the colleges ; and second, to prevent unneces
sary and wasteful depletion of the colleges through indis
criminate volunteering, by offering to the students a definite 
and immediate military status.
Later announcement will be made of the details of the 
new system. Those who do not graduate this spring should 
be urged to continue their education and take advantage of 
this new opportunity to serve the Nation.
IBON ein ELECTRIC CD. 
Thursday, May 23, 1918
EGiiciJci/GiciIcir0/c/nityiDiJHJciiHJi
436 Seventh Ave.
All Kinds of BATTERIES 
Repaired and Recharged j
I cj d [hj cu i j to li oil EJ cJ d cij cj MSJSMSMSMSMS/SMS2M3M3M2MSJ31
lUHilU^
A National Institution
Browning, King & Company
CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS AND HATS FOR 
MEN, BOYS AND CHILDREN 
439-441 WOOD STREET
iifiiiniiiiwniiiiiniimiiiniiiiiimTimimiiiiiii'iiniiiii'iiiniiiiii:iiiiiiiiim!in'nii!iiiiiiiiiii!iii8iiinniimii'iiK'i'"'"i:iii[iiiinm[iiiiiinniniiTiiiiii]!iinimniii;!miniincinnproiimimaifl______________ ________ -------------------
Oakland Savings & Trust Co.
THE OAKLAND BANK 
CAPITAL*
SURPLUS,
DEPOSITS OVER $3,000,000.00
$200,000.00 1 
$200,000!00 1
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
isiMMiimiiiipmiiMiniiiinmMiiiiiiiiiiM
STEAM ENGINEERING SCHOOL
0FF16IftL NOTIGES
The following abstract is re-printed from the Bulletin of Student 
Information. It was consider wise to do so, as a medium of bringing 
the new system before the eyes of the whole student body :
The cost of instruction at the Carnegie Institute of Technology 
is borno by the income from endowment, and not by student fees, 
as is generally tho case at other educational institutions. Each stu.......................................I tc
the
dent, however, is required to pay a General Fee which is applied to
sueh administrativo and maintenance expenses as registration, 
koopiiig oi! student records and accoimts, upkccp o 1: equipment, instructional supplios, uso of lockcrs, etc. The (enera! Feo also parta 1- 
]y nmintninH tiloso studont; organizations which nood financia! assistInstitute also sets 
lor siek students
ico each year, and are officially recognized. The 
tho General Fee to providi
an<
aside u, fund out: 
needing the care of specialists who arc unable to meet the expense, 
this is in addition of the gratuitous medical service furnished by the 
Institute through its two resident: physicians, one for men and the 
other for women.
"Day Students. The General Fee for students taking day 
courses in any school or department of the Institute is twenty-liv.c 
dollars ($25) per term, payable per term, on the registration dates 
scheduled in the calendar elsewhere. The school year for a day stu
dent consists, as a rule, of three terms, but he has the opportunity of 
attending four terms if economic conditions make it, necessary for him 
to complete his course in the shortest possible time.
Night Students. The General Fee for students taking night 
courses in any school or department of the Institute is twenty dollars 
($20) a year, payable in advance, on the registration date scheduled 
in the calendar elsewhere. The school year for a night student con
sists of two terms, from October 1 to April 1.
In certain courses the nature of the work done requires more 
than the usual amount of supplies. To facilitate the purchase ot 
these supplies, which must be paid for as used, a eredit-eard can be 
secured at the Cashier, s office for'five dollars ($5), the unused por
tion of which is redeemable for cash.
THE NEW ENLISTED TRAINING CORPS FOR COLLEGE 
STUDENTS
The United States Navy Department has perfected plans for the 
enrollment and training of considerable numbers of engineering offi
cers. A school for this training known as the United States Navy 
Steam Engineering School, has been established at the Stevens In
stitute of Technology, Hoboken, New Jersey, under the guidance of 
Dean F. L. Pryor as Civilian Director.
The course consists of five months training divided as follows:
One month of military training at the Naval Training Camp, 
Pelham Bay Park, New York.
One month at the U. S. Navy Steam Engineering School.
Two months practical training on board ships and in repair 
shops in the vicinity of New York.
One month finishing course at the U. S. Navy Steam Engineering School.
The school is open to men between twenty-one and thirty, who 
are physically qualified, of thorough ability and officer-like character, 
and who have completed the engineering course at any recognized 
technical school.
This school present particular desirable opportunities to the 
young technical man, both in affording him a proper outlet for his 
trained facilities during the war, and in rounding out his college work 
with a practical course and school experience which will be of value 
to any engineer.
The service that a graduate.from the school will perform will be 
that of an enginocr-offieer in the auxiliary service of the Navy. A 
graduate of the school will be commissioned an Ensign in the U. S. 
Naval Reserve Force.
Information has been sent to all registered technical schools 
and should be on file at the Presidents office. For any additional 
details application can be made to the Civilian Director, U. S. Navy 
Engineering School, Stevens Institute, Hoboken, N. J.
Any men, graduates or under-graduates, who are registered in 
the draft can enroll with the proper enrolling officer by securing from 
the draft board a letter of release which in all probability can be obta.ined for this purpose, provided the men are not included in the cur
rent draft quota.
Special provision has been made for the continuance of the 
school with proper material by a Navy regulation which permits 
under-graduates of the Freshman, Sophomore and Junior classes in 
recognized engineering schools to enroll in the Navy with a rating 
Seaman 2nd Class and continue their courses at the Institutions 
where they have matriculated. Such men will be called into active 
service after their graduation and can at that time, if they are 
physically qualified to pass an officers physical examination, enroll 
for the course at the U. S. Navy Steam Engineering School.
lines for training as officers. A Coast Artillery Training Camp ismaintained at Fort Monroe, Va. Selected men with special training: 
in electricity or other engineering lines are sent to this camp for ant 
intensive course. If registered under the draft a man must be in
ducted into military service before being sent to this camp. Thenext camp will begm on July 6, 1918. It is not necessary for candi
dates to be twenty-one years of age.
All candidates must have a thorough understanding and work
ing knowledge of algebra to include quadratics; trigonometry to in
clude solution of triangles and logarithms. Previous technical train
ing is not an essential but extremely valuable. It has been found that 
among applicants those who have had training in Civil, Mechanical.. 
Electrical or Architectural Engineering have been particularly suc
cessful in training camp and as officers thereafter.
Each application should contain the following information:
a. Name, age, weight, height.
b. College or technical school attended, degree, special technical training.
c. If at present in a university, recommendation from com-// 
petent university authority as to personality, ability torecommend, physical appearance, etc.
d. Other letters of recommendation.
Applications should be addressed to Director of Instruction,. 
Coast Artillery Training Camp, Fort Monroe, Va.
COAST ARTILLERY
GRAPHICA HELD BANQUET 
AT FT. PITT HOTEL
The Graphica nekl its farewell ban
quet. at the Fort Pitt Hotel last Thurs
day evening. Though somewhat re
duced in numbers at the present time, 
the society expects a large increase in 
membership next year when the new 
students enter in the fall. Over onehalf of its members are now serving 
under the "Flag, and the majority are 
now Somewhere in France. 
According to its usual custom, it 
made known the recipient of the schol
arship annually awarded to a membei
Of the incoming class. Tins year it 
was awarded to W. D, Hall.
INDUSTRY HOLDS LAST 
ASSEMBLY OF THE YEAR
Last Wednesday the last of the 
Student Assemblies of the School of 
Applied Industries was held. At this 
meeting the members of the Middle 
Class presided.
Dean Connelley addressed the meet
ing and spoke especially to the mem
bers of the Upper class, hut also to 
those of the other classes who are endeavoring to finish their course here.. . _______ uuui QC UCXC.
8 FACTS ABOUT THE W Ar*
IMPORTANT WAR INFORMATION BOOKLETS ISSUED BY THE 
U. S. GOVERNMENT
Y
OUR government desires that everybody be given an opportunity 
to learn all facts about the War. Every American should know 
WHY we entered this war. Every American should know WHY 
we must fight on until the high ideals of Americanism and Democracy are attained.
President Wilson created the Committee on Public Information to 
tell the people the TRUTH. As a part of its work this Committee has 
prepared a series of thirty-seven booklets, each dealing with a vital 
war problem. These booklet will be furnished free upon request.Fill in coupon below.
The Coast Artillery is in need of men specialized along technical
(From the Patriotic News Service of the National Committee of 
Patriotic Societies.)
For nearly a year there has been much public discussion of the 
proper function ol: colleges and of the duty of college students in the 
present emergency. Last July President Wilson said :
It would seriously impair Americas prospects of suc
cess in this war if the supply of highly trained men were un
necessarily diminished. There will be need for a larger num
ber of persons expert in the various fields of applied science 
than ever before '* * * I therefore have no hesitation
in urging colleges and technical schools to endeavor to main
tain their courses as far as possible on the usual basis * * # 
Those who fall below the age of selective conscription and 
who do not enlist may feel that by pursuing their courses 
with earnestness and diligence they also are preparing them
selves for valuable services to the Nation.
The vital contribution of the colleges is now formally recognized 
in an announcement just issued by the Secretary of War. As a mili
tary measure the colleges of the country are by this announcement.
Largest Jewelry Establishment in Pittsburgh 
THE
SOLDIERS KHAKI WATCH
THE ARTILLERY WATCH 
THE INFANTRY WATCH 
THE M A R I N E WATCH 
The most desirable Wrist Watch for Military Men.
Built to give satisfactory service everywhere.
Waltham movementradium dial and handsunbreakable 
andsemi-darkened crystalmoisture-proof Khaki Band.
$22.00 to $27.00 
Visit our Art RoomSecond Floor
The HARDY & HAYES CO.
Wood St. atOIiver Ave. Pittsburgh
iriTrTirrnTMiMi VOL iiiiiiiiiii ................................nlun
Booklet 
No. 5
Booklet 
No. 6
CONQUEST AND KULTUR. Contents: Hundreds of quo
tations from the writings of leading German statesmen, 
professors, and publicists, revealing the Prussian idea of 
world conquest. One section is devoted to Germany's de
signs upon the United States with special reference to the 
Monroe Doctrine. 160 pages with comprehensive map.
GERMAN WAR PRACTICES. Prussianism in all its hor
ror. Methods of the German Military Machine. Docu
mentary proofs of German^official brutalities upon civilians. 
Narrating instances of frightfulness taken directly from German sources.
Booklet WHY AMERICA FIGHTS GERMANY. A statement why 
No. 115 America entered the war. Deals with offences of Germany 
against America and against the world. The case in a nut shell written in plan language.
The above mentioned are but three of a series of thirty-seven au
thentic war publications. Fill in coupon below and these three books 
will be sent you together with a complete catalogue from which you may select other booklets.
COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC INFORMATION
The Secretary of State The Secretary of the Navy
The Secretary of War Mr. George Creel
S Jackson Place, Washington, D. C.
This space 
is patriotic
ally donated 
to our gov
ernment by 
the publish
ers of The 
Tartan i n 
appreciation 
of the value 
of having 
every Amer
ican. read 
these im
portant war 
booklets.
 FACTS ABOUT THE WAR COUPON
Fill in and mail, under first class postage (3c) to 
Division of Distribution,
Committee on public Information, ....................................
S Jackson Place, Washington, D. C. ' (Date)
Please send me, free of any charge, the booklets 
which I have checked, to the address given below.
[ ] Conquest & Kultur. [ ] German War Practices.
[ ] Why America Fights Germany.
My name .............................................................................................
Street address ..............................................................................
City .............................................

---------------------------------------------------

Thursday, May 23, 1918THE TARTANPage Three
[AMERICAN UNIVERSITY 
UNION FAST INCREASING
ARRQW (J11dar
FOR SPRING
Casco-2Vein. Clyde-2vsi
Bell Schenley 389
MISS OLEARY
(Formerly with J. E. T. Shuman) 
DRY CLEANINGREPAIRING 
Ladies and Mens Clothes, Car
pets, Rugs, Portieres.
Work Guaranteed and Turned 
Out on Short Notice.
3933 FORBES STREET 
gj Oakland PITTSBURGH, PA. ^
CAMERAPHONE
EAST LIBERTY
ALL THIS WEEK 
CLARA KIMBALL YOUNG
THE REASON WHY 
Supported by Milton Sills.
The story is an absorbing romance 
of great interst. It is one of Elinor 
Glyns best stories of high society.
W. 0. Breckon
STUDIOS
FORBES AND ATWOOD 8T8.
Phonea 1603161 8chenley 
SPECIAL PRICES TO TECH 
8TUDENT3
GET YOUR HAIR CUT 1
TECH BARBER SBBP
Nearest to TechICOR. CRAIG AND FORBES g 
^ FRED FARGEL, Proprietor pi
 r|^ f3/j?/3/3J3/HJ [a fpi ro fp fra fia ra rp fi rpjSJHfi fS/rO Ffi
SCHENLEY EATS 
A good place to get a good meal.
Meet your friends here on 
Sunday evening.
FRED SUDDEBY, Proprietor. 
CRAIG AND FORBES
The American University Union in 
Europe asks the attention of all Amer
ican college men, especially of those in 
active war service, to the plans for the 
development of its London Branch.
More than one hundred universities 
and colleges in the United States, in
cluding West Point and Annapolis, 
have now officially joined the Ameri
can University Union in Europe and 
contribute to its financial support. The 
honorary patrons are, in the United 
States, the Secretary of War, and the 
Secretary of the Navy, and, iii Europe, 
the American Ambassador to Great 
Britain, France and Italy, and General 
Pershing. Its work has been devel
oped in entire accord with that of the 
American Red Cross and Y. M. C. A 
Its general object is to meet the 
needs of American university and col
lege men and their friends who are in 
Europe for military or other service 
in the cause of the Allies. Its cen
tral headquarters are the Royal Pal
ace Hotel, S Rue de Richelieu, Paris, 
of toiich it has exclusive use, and 
at which upwards of 5,000 American 
college men have already been regis
tered. The Union offers its privileges 
freely to men of all colleges in the 
United States whether graduates or 
not.
On March 14, 1918, an American 
University Dinner was held at the 
Criterion Restaurant, London, at which 
Lord Bryce was its guest of honor. 
There were present 167 men, repreresenting 51 different American uni
versities and colleges. At that time 
the dinner committee, Mr. Lewis P. 
Sheldon (Yale), Mr. Robert Grant, Jr. 
(Harvard), and Mr. Lawrence L. Twee
dy (Princeton), were elected as the 
London Advisory Council of the Amer
ican University Union, with power to 
add to their number. In consultation 
with them the officers of the union 
have made the following arrangements 
} to develop the work of the union in 
England.
In September, 1917, through the ef
forts of Messrs. Sheldon, Grant and 
Tweedy, and with the generous co
operation of Mr. Henry King Smith of 
the Farmers Loan and Trust Com
pany, a London Branch office of the 
union was opened at 16, Pall Mall 
East, London, S. W. I. About 200 
American college men have already 
registered there. Through the courtesy 
of the Farmers Loan and Trust Co., 
the entire first floor has now been 
given to the union. A large writing 
and reading room, plentifully equipped 
with American newspapers and per-i 
iodicals, together with a Bureau of In 
formation and Registration, will be 
open from 9:30 a. m. to 5. p. m. (Satur 
day till 1 p. m.) A duplicate file of all 
registrations in the Paris office will be 
kept there. The office will be in 
charge of Professor J. W. Cunliife of 
Columbia University, who has been ap 
pointed Director of the London Branch 
of the Union.
TWO PROGRAMS FINISH
MUSIC STUDENTS YEAR M
MSM3MSMSMSM3M3/3MSMSM3JSJSMSJ3 
WEBER EXPRESS AND 
STORAGE COMPANY 
Bell Phone 239 Schenley.
Moving, Packing and Storing 
of Furniture and Pianos. Gen* 
eral Hauling Baggage to and 
from Depots.
4616-18-20 HENRY STREET 
PITTSBURGH
HOW POTATO FLOUR IS MADE.
TYPEWRITERS 
RENTED 
Late models. 
Three months for 
$7.00. Special 
rates to students. 
Guaranteed Fac
tory Rebuilt Ma
chines.
American Writing Machine 
Company
630 PENN AVENUE 
Bell Phone Grant 1374 
Special Monarch Visible, 3 mo, $5.
EAT THE MILLER WAY
Millers
Cafeteria
and
RESTAURANT
FIFTH AVE. ARCADE
(SUBWAY)
Bellefield Shoe !
Repairing
FORBES STREET 
Opposite Carnegie Library. _ 
High class work done while you E 
wait.
LOW PRICE8 TO TECH 
STUDENTS 
Give us a trial.
Knit, Knit, Knit
In time of peace prepare for war
In summertime knit socks for winter 
wear.
 The pioneer marketer of the old 
Oregon trail, Ezra Meeker, is not sat
isfied with the laurels he obtained in 
the earlier days and he is now againserving his country by pioneering in 
the manufacture of potato flour.
Potato flour is not a new product to 
Mr. Meeker, for he manufactured this 
product for the Alaska trade years 
ago. Mr. Meeker recently stated that 
a plant for handling potatoes can be 
constructed for a few hundred dollars 
from material obtainable anywhere in 
his section, which is in the extreme 
Northwest.
. A ton of potatoes, says Mr. Meek
er, will produce 500 pounds of flour. 
The process he describes is simple and 
inexpensive. First the potatoes are 
washed clean and then sliced with the 
peelings on and dropped immediately 
into' clean water to prevent discolora
tion and to rinse them; then as soon 
as practicable they are either par
boiled or steamed from 8 to 10 minutes 
long enough to cook the starch 
when the slices lose their opaque apperance and become transparent. The 
cooked slices are then transferred to 
a drier and for the first few hours 
subjected to a current of hot air not 
greater than 120 degrees F., after 
which the temperature is gradually in
creased to 170 degrees, but no greater.
The drying process is continued un
til the slices are brittle, though it is 
immaterial if a few here and there 
are not thoroughly dried. When 'taken 
off the kiln, the dried product is placed 
in a compact pile in dry room and 
handled over daily for three or four 
days until the pile evens up, after 
which they are ready for th mill to 
grind them into potato meal or flour.
A revolving washera long box par
tially emerged in a pile of watercan 
be cheaply built to easily wash a ton 
of potatoes an hour. An ordinary 
root cutter, which may be purchased 
for $30 or less, will answer to slice 
the potatoes, but it is likely that a 
more desirable machine for slicing 
may be found in the market. The 
average mill will cost from $150 toi 
$225 and up, but at present can not 
be obtained on short notice.
Mr. Meeker mentions one potatoflour plant at Yakima, Wash., that is 
producing 25 to 30 barrels of flour a 
day. In April this flour was selling 
for $21 a barrel.
When you go into an exam and the 
prof. reads a question and you know 
you cant answer it; and then when 
he reads five more than you can an
swer and says, Omit one, Oh boy, 
AINT IT A GRAN AN GLORIOUS 
FEELING?
iContinued from Page One.')
dante tor Clarinet" with feeling and a 
tone quality that revealed an under
standing of his instrument. The per
formance was remarkably smooth and 
received hearty applause.
Godards "Sur le Lac," for cel o, 
Miss Carol Roberts, was one of the 
very popular numbers of the evening. 
This instrument seems to make a very 
general appeal. Miss Roberts' tone 
was full and the character of the com
position was well brought out.
-Vnotlier most enjoyable number was 
the duet for Ilute and French horn. 
Voights Serenade, played bj The . 
Sturdykowsky and Harry GoldBeld. 
The composition is lovely, and | 
tone quality of both instruments was [ 
in keeping with the composition. The ( 
timbre of the French liorn lias a pe
culiar charm, and Mr. Coldfield is 
be congratulated upon what he 1 as 
accomplished in a year's work on this 
difficult instrument. Fine horn player 
are rareeven among professionals.
The Massenet number, Sous les 
Tilleuls, for -cello and clarinet. Miss 
Jean Wessner and Mr. R. Amato, was 
a verv interesting and pleasing per
formance. Mr. Amato gets all the 
beauty his instrument, has to give - 
and combined with Miss Wessner s 
artistic work, the result could only be 
delightful. The applause was indica
tive of the pleasure it afforded
The Trio for Violin. Cello and 
Piano, Andante" and "Moderato. 
by Gade, was played by V. Belelirad. 
Miss Wessner and Helen Eyles, and 
made an interesting close to a most 
enjoyable program.
The Sunday evening program proved, 
to lie a very brilliant one and called 
out a capacity house. The opening 
number was the orchestral arrange
ment of the National Anthem, b> J. '  
O'Brien, who conducted. This was 
followed by the Allegro Moderate, 
from Schuberts B" Minor Symphony 
The orchestra was in excellent form 
and gave a very interesting reading 
of the score. The body of tone was 
full the attack certain and proper re
gard was given to nuance. Hearty apnlause greeted this number.
A group of 'cello numbers, Grain
ger's "Mummers' Christmas Carol, 
Saint Saens' "Allegro Apassionata 
and "The Swan," by Miss Jean Wessnor called forth appreciative ap
plause, particularly "The Swan 
which was especially beautiful, wltl, 
accompaniment of strings. Miss Wess- , 
ner's playing shows a very consideraliel advance over last year and prom
ises even better things in the future.
Mr. Robert McGowen's performance 
of "The First Movement" or the ltubenstein Concerto to D Minor was 
most cordially received. His attTO* 
was sure and liis technique facile, illsplaying considerable power. I he or
chestra gave him the proper support. 
The improvement in the orchestral accompanlmen. Is quite noticeable, being 
marked by more assurance and hettoi 
balance, as well as greater subordina
tion to the demands of the soloist.
The number affording most personal 
interest was Sladeks Song Without 
Words, tor violin and piano, played 
bv the composer, Paul Sladek. 11 
proved to be a very lovely little coin 
position, well suited to the timbre of 
the instrument for which it was writ
ten It had a charmingly serious mo 
tit and escaped the sentimental very 
happily, While a most Interesting ao 
companiment gave the melody just tin 
right relief. Mr. Sladek is to be con
gratulated not only on his compos! 
tion, but upon the very interesting in
terpretation which lie gave it. He 
played Gypsy Dance, by Henri Ernst, 
with dash and color.
The program closed with the sz 
Concerto, for Piano, in E, by Miss 
Adele Hening. It was a very lir Ilian 
performance on the part of both or 
diestra and soloist. Miss Hening had 
full command of all the resources of 
her instrument and displayed an ad
mirable technique and an artistic P
predation of the composition The
audience was lavish in its applause.
There has been a marked 
ment in program making m this last 
series of concerts. The department 
has much to its credit for the year lust 
closing, which is aUite remarkable 
when one considers how hard the in 
stHution has been hit by the draft an 
other war measures. Mr. O Brien and 
his s-aff of teachers have reason 
congratulate themselves and their students on the work that has been^accomplished.
Spring and Summer Suits
with the right atmosphere and character 
at last years prices--no advances
Also a Special Display at $30
Only through our unparalleled purchase of woolens many months 
ago are we able to announce a continuation of our prices of last 
season. The savings thus secured are all yours.
This is the outcome of the tremendous volume of business we do 
in our chain of stores and our maker-to-you policy. Never before have 
you enjoyed such a wonderful and exceptional opportunity as we now 
offer you; and a like privilege is not apt to be yours to enjoy again 
in many years.
Good
Clothes
The above Is our Mackay 
model and is typical of the 
many new styles we show!
507 Market St.932 Liberty Ave.
209 & 21 1 Smithfield St.
Store Open Saturday Evenings.
Our Own Retail Stores In Akron, Cleveland, Milwaukee, Pittsburgh (3 
Stores), Reading, Syracuse, Wilkes-Barre, Youngstown.
erland (Pitt), won; McLarun (Pitt), 
second; Ashton (Westminster), third 
Miller (Tech), fourth; Emory (State), 
fifth. Distance. 145 feet 3 inches.
Discus  Sutherland (Pitt), won; 
Ashton (Westminster), second; Stan
ford (Pitt), third; Ellerton (Tech), 
fourth; Shea (Pitt), llftli. Distance, 
132 feet 1 inch.
One-mile relay Pitt (Eckhardt, 
Peters, Speck, Shea), won; Tech, sec
ond; Westminster, third.
TECH TRACK TEAM 
SHOWS GOOD FORM
(Continued From Page One) 
(Pitt), won; Jordan (Pitt), second; 
Arnold (Tech), third; Johnston (West
minster), fourth; Nichols (Pitt), fifth. 
Time. :27 4-5.
High jumpHugus (Pitt), won; 
Nicholas (Pitt), second; Johnston 
(Tech), third; Hammond (Tech), 
fourth; Petrie (Tech), fifth. Height, 5 
feet 10 inches.
Running broad jump  Easterday 
(Pitt), won; Shea (Pitt), second; 
Davidson (Tech), third; Hugus (Pitt), 
fourth; Speck (Pitt), fifth.- Distance, 
20 Vi feet.Pole vault  Hugus (Pitt), won; 
Hammond (Tech), second; Easterday 
(Pitt), third; Woodward (Tech), 
fourth; Ashton (Westminster), fifth. 
Height, 10 feet 9 inches.
Putting IG-pound shotSutherland 
(Pitt), won; Ellerton (Tech), second; 
Ashton (Westminster), third; Emory 
(Penn State), fourth; Rudder (Tech), 
fifth. Distance, 39 feet 5 inches. 
Throwing 16-pound hammerSuthMUSICAL CLUBS ELECT 
OFFICERS AT BANQUET
State Manager, A. Buchanan
Mandolin Club Librarian, K, C. 
Knapp
Glee Club Librarian, W. S. Miller
The following men received Insig
nia:
George Balauiro 
George Ellerton 
F. A. Faville 
J. F. Sweeny j
R. C. Cost 
Frank Nuttal 
L. S. Lashmit 
C. A. Andrews 
Louis Chapman 
<H. C. Knapp 
J. Eisenburg 
C. P. Kavannaugh 
C. K. Strobel 
Jos.^Ceremele 
M. H. Mawhinney 
A. Bloch 
A. P. Lamore
F. Treat 
C. L. Yost 
J. W. Batman 
Geo. Trabert 
Quayle 
W. R. Tobin 
A. Buchannon 
R. H. Doerzsbach 
J. S. Hunter 
W. Blenko
E. M. Pugh 
T. R. Hinckley 
Wenninger 
W. S. Miller 
A. J. Knorr 
W. J. Poyntz
C. C. Pribek 
McCurdy 
Shallenberger.
j TRANSITS AND LEVELS 
p ALL SUPPLIES FOR THE 
DRAFTING ROOM
Engineers Equipment, Instru
ments of Precision, Blue Print 
nnd Brown Print Papers and Cloths.
B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
126 SIXTH STREET
teeth in the food-control act, and the 
fact that the members of food trade: 
have, as a rule, observed the law in 
good spirit, does not Indicate that 
the teeth will not be shown upon 
necessity.
TEETH IN THE FOOD LAW
Certain businesses have been put 
under a heavy strain through the 
regulations necessarily imposed to 
conserve food. The spirit in which 
they have faced their new tasks will 
always he a matter of pride to the 
American people. Grocers, bakers, 
commission men, millers have accept
ed their war responsibilities with 
good grace. It gives satisfaction to 
note that the only case so farbrought before a federal grand jury 
for violating the provisions of the 
food-control law is that of a man not 
engaged in the food business. A ci 
gar dealer in the State of Washing 
ton has been indicted for hoardinr 
and) speculating in wheat. There ar
GIRLS ELECT ATHLETIC 
ASSOCIATION OFFICERS
Friday, the 17th, the Athletic Asso
ciation of Margaret Morrison held 
electiohs for next year; the following 
officers were elected:
PresidentAnna McCandliss.
Vice PresidentMaud Hainer.
Secretary and Treasurer  Ruth 
Ross.
Head of HockeyEmily King.
Head of TennisIrma Friedman.
Head of Swimming  Katherine 
Kirk.
Head of BaseballBarbara Endres.
CHURCHES
ST. PAULS CATHEDRAL 
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.
Masson: 0:30, 8:00, 9:00, 10:00 and 
11:00 A. M. on Sundays and Holy 
Days.
Vospors on SundayH at 7:30 P. M. 
Pow G8 Middle Aisle for Toch Students.
ASCENSION EPISCOPAL CHURCH 
Ellsworth Avenue nnd Novillo Street 
DR. WYATT BROWN, Rector. 
REV. E. JEFFERY JENNINGS, 
Assistant.
Sunday Sorvicos,' 11 A. M. and 7:45 P. M.
Biblo Class, 10:00 A. M.
Toch students cordially wolcomod.
CONSERVATION AMONG MINERS
There are several large classes of 
American citizens who have not as 
yet been effectively reached by organ
ized conservation. Often these are 
workers in specialized industies far 
from centers of population whose 
meal sevlce has to he arranged es
pecially for them, either in central 
dining halls or In company stores.
In the far West and in Canada ef
forts have been made to reach em
ployers and workers In the lumber 
camps. While some good work has 
been done the lumber camp remains 
a source of great waste.
A large coal operators association 
in Virginia Is now taking up the mat
ter of conservation of wheat In the 
operators retail stores. 'Ill Is Is a 
matter that has to bo handled through 
a careful campaign of education. 
Demonstrations are to be held at 
various stores with the particular 
purpose of interesting the women. 
At the same time, through measures 
to bring the war home to the men,
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
Shady and Northumberland Avenuts
Gradod Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. 
Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M. and 
8:00 P. M.
Young Peoples Service, 7:00 P. M. 
Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages* 
A cordial welcome to all.
ROBERT B. MILLER, D. D., 
Pastor.
Grace Church
(Reformed)
THE HOME LIKE CHURCH 
BAYARD and DITHRIDGE STREETS 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister 
SERVICES Sunday School9:45 A. M.
Morning Worship11 A. M. 
Christian Endeavor7 P. M. 
Popular Evening Services at 7:45. 
Sermons for Head and Heart. 
Hearty Welcome for All.
BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN 
CHURCH
Bellefield and Fifth Avenues 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D., 
Minister.
Preaching Services 11 and 8. 
Sunday school at 10.
Christian Endeavor at 7. [|
We want the Tech boys to ati|| tend our services and learn to i 
know us an the congregation of * 
"Friendly People. A hearty  
welcome awaits you.
It is hoped to secure a degree of 
operation in saving.
8t. Johno Bread.
St. Johns bread is the mime given 
the enrob In the Holy Land as It Is said 
to be both the locust and wild, honej 
devoured by that famous ncclalmei 
while In the desert. It grows practlcat 
ly everywhere planted in Palestine.

---------------------------------------------------

P.LUDEBUEHLE SON
SHOES H HOSIERY PENH AND FBMIKSTDWN 
Footprints Lead to Detection
The standing of a man io as oftc*- 
an not told by his footwearIf he lw 
careless of that, hes apt to bo negli
gent of more important things. II 
you will buy your shoes here, you may 
be certain of looking all right, feeling 
all right and impressing others with 
the fact that you arc "all right. Our 
Shoes arc built by some of the most 
representative Shoe Manufacturers In 
the world.
DO YOU DANCE?
g DANCING LESSONS CLASS AND PRIVATE |
=} Special Class fcr High School and College Students, Starting Mon- (1 
day, October 15, at 8:00 P. M. E
JACQUES DANCING ACADEMY 
jj CRAIG AND FORBES BELL PHONE 
A pencil
that
almost
writes
alone
the lead 
flows
(Continued From Page One)
guilty ol! the crime of witchcraft, the 
charge on which she burned at the 
stake.
The story follows her military car
eer, dealing only lightly with her life 
at Domremy, where she was reared 
according to the true lines of peasan 
try. ft is built in 10 scenes, something 
as follows: her third visit to the gov
ernor at Vaucouleurs, where she is 
(inally given safe passage to Charles 
VII; her trip over the road, accom
panied by the governors escort to 
Chinon; the Court of the DauphinCastle of Chinon, where she sees the 
King, who, discouraged by recent re
verses at the hands of the British, 
hears her plea that she lias been told 
by a vision it was her duty to relieve 
the siege of Orleans. Like a drowning 
man clutching at a straw lie disregards 
the advices of his counsellors, and 
puts her at the head of a contingent 
of troops; The Cato of Orleans, tile 
end of the siege; the, trial at Rouen, 
after her capture by the British and 
Burgundians; the Adjuration, in the 
churchyard at Rouen when she argues 
with the bishopfl, and the signing of
I ho confession while in a state of com
ma; the prison where she has donned 
man's clothing and is again indicted; 
Rouen, on the way to the square that 
tho decree of death may be carried 
out; tho tragic end of the heroine and 
the linn I groat climax, modern in every 
sense of tho word and to be of a qual
ity and purpose of inestimable worth 
to those nooking to Instill in tho hearts 
of Americans a true pal.rlol.lBni.
Nowhore In the play will there bo 
any apology or dofon.se for tho politic
al quarrels of either the British or tho 
Borgundians. It is not meant lo deal 
with the political phase of the strug
gle, but Instead will portray, with as 
much truth as possible, l he great pa
triotism wliiili caused Joan to come
Contributed by Frank Godwin.
If your SON, BROTHER, FATHER or some
one else whom you love dearly was woundedyour 
Wife or Children starving and were going to die be
cause you could not give them aid, WOULD YOU 
NOT BLESS THE ONE WHO SAVED THEM?
Think it over. Open your heart to those who 
are CRYING FOR HELP and GIVE AS YOU 
NEVER GAVE BEFORE.
ALLEGHENY COUNTYS SHARE $4,000,000.
American Red Cross 
Second War Fund
MAY 2027
 CONTRIBUTED TO THE RED CROSS BY THE TARTAN
ijl degrees
fr at all [ stationersLASTIUSE
*the master drawing pcncU'to the defense of her country. (Her 
vision, that which has done much to 
make her appeal to writers of llction, 
has been forgotten to a certain extent, 
and an effort lias boon put forth to 
prove that this vision was only a great 
desire on her part to rid her beloved 
country of its invaders. History points 
clearly to the fact that as long as she
was driving from France those who to prove beyond a doubt, that her! 
had taken possession illegally of the power lay entirely in her patriotism 
country she was able to instill into her and loyalty, in her spirit of sacrifice, 
warriors a great fighting power, but and her ability to impress both her foltliat when she was prevailed to re- lowers and those of the invaders that 
main at the head of the armies, and she espoused a cause of righteousness, 
started expeditions of conquest, lierr It is this thought that Mr. Stevens lias 
power waned and she was finally cap- held throughout the damatization of 
tured. This, it is contended, would go| the story.
At the Reception.
"What ni rungo nmnnor.s tha; nul hoi 
1U,:i." "Vos. If you didnt know Ik 
.XV n literary lion youd mistake bln 
for nn educated pig.Boston Trans 
fri pi.
THE
TURKISH,
nTdahoom
55HARGYROS.
*-0^1LLARD CO.
Page FourTHE TARTANThursday, May 23, 1918
Established 1865
SPORTING GOODS STORE 
TennisGolf 
BaseballBicycles 
Kodaks and Films 
Guns and Ammunition 
Army Leggings and Sweaters 
Fishing Tackle 
Bicycle Tires and Sundries 
Tents and Camping Outfits 
Gun and Bicycle Repairing 
639 LIBERTY AVENUE 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
iiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniinii!
BRING YOUR PICTURES 
To Us. We Do Expert 
DEVELOPING PRINTING 
ENLARGING 
At Reasonable Prices.
A Fresh Stock of 
PHOTOGRAPHIC SUPPLIES 
Always on hand.
W. S. BELL & CO.
412 WOOD STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Bell PhoneCourt 1265.
IVNCNAREIVG
OF OUR
SOLDIERS
jjj 242 S. HIGHLAND AVENUE
Winilll!in!l!lllllllUl[|lllll!l[llll!lin:l!l!l!innil!!ll!l!l!lllin]ll!IIII!IIII!IIIDIII!IIIIBIIIIIII(!lIIJIlOig
MeSBon 
I National 
Bank
PITTSBURGH 
I 510-514 Smitheld St.
I 409-413 Fifth Ave.
I 406-410 Oliver Ave. .
I Capital - - - - $6,000,000
Resources Over 
$100,000,000
l!lllllll!illllllllil!ll!l!IIIIII![ll!P
OjajSMSMaiMaMSMSJaMSMSMEiSMSISra 
Bell Phone 3465 GrantJ. G. Marshall 
Company
OFFICE, SCHOOL AND
LIBRARY FURNITURE. 
959 LIBERTY AVENUE 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
fpi fin fHi [fop fni [pi fc3f3f3f313f3ii?J3/3iSI3r3i3J3J3J3/SI3J9
RESTRICTIONS RAISED
One thing that people are beginning 
to recognize is that the Food Admin
istration will be just as ready to raise 
the restrictions upon the consumption  
of food when conditions warrant as 
it was vigorous in applying them. 
The Food Administration ' is a war 
agency. It is not an agency for cor
recting the habits of the American 
people, or for reforming American 
economic practices. This fact was 
brought out in the case of meat. It 
has again been demonstrated by the 
action  of the administration ' in re
moving 10 days before the set time 
the restrictions against the sale of 
live and fresh killed hens. The Food 
Administration is cooperating witn { 
the American people to help them 
to win the war. It is a positive and. 
not a negative force.
ANOTHER CUT IN FRENCH RA
TION
We see in the papers that France 
is not hungry; that all one needs is 
money with which to buy a liberal 
meal. Perhaps it is true that some 
people in France, as in the rest of 
the world, with a full pocket-book can 
obtain an unfair share of food. But 
Hi at France as' a whole has enough 
food is unfortunately very far from 
true. We need only note that a still 
further reduction in bread rations 
was made early in April. These ra
tions had already been been cut to 
almost half the normal consumption. . 
By the recent restriction, a further - 
cut of one-tliird is made. The har1 
worker now receives only the amOum, 
ganted to the desk worker a month 
ago.
The thoughts of old, dear things is in i 
thine ^eyes,
O, month*'of memories!
I see thee stand where all thy Bisters 
meet
To cast down at thy feet'
The garnered largess of the fruitful 
year.
From John Charles McNeills . Oc
tober.'
