NIGHT SCIENCE 
SOCIAL 
FEBRUARY 16th
JANUARY 30, 1918
BASKET BALL 
ALLEGHENY 
SATURDAY
W. & J. DEFEATS PLAID 
FIVE IN CLOSE CONTEST
One of Techs hardest and most 
closely contested basketball games of 
the season was played in the Fieldhouse last Saturday evening. The 
.game tested the fibre of the squad to 
the utmost since not only did they 
have a very strong and heavy team 
to tackle but their own team hafgalso 
heen shattered by the quarantines now 
in effect in the East Dormitory and 
at the Sigma Rho Fraternity house. 
Hoban, who played at forward and 
Wire, who substituted for Williams in 
the Pitt game, are both in the East 
Dorm, while Williams will be held 
in the Sigma Rho house until the 
-quarantine period there is over.
Despite these obstacles Tech man
aged to hold W. & J. to a four point 
lead, the final score being 18-22. The 
game was very rough and W. & J.s 
weight told against Techs lighter 
men. Lefty Abrams started off the 
coring by dropping in two fouls 
which W. & J. soon, evened up with a 
field goal and then beat when Carroll 
shot a foul, putting the score at 2-3. 
The lead which Kofoel gained for 
Tech by caging a field goal was over
come by two foul shots and a field 
:goal by W. & J. A field goal and a 
foul by Lefty evened the score 
again. Doc Doherty managed to tie 
up the next field goal W. & J. made. 
The whistle blew, before Tech bad 
time to even up W. & J.s last field 
goal, so the score stood 11-9 in favor 
of W. & J.
At the beginning of the second half 
Abrams /igain evened up the score 
by dropping in two fouls. W. & J. 
then gained a good lead, however, by 
caging three field goals. The remain
der of the period was a vain attempt 
on Techs part to cut down this six 
point lead, only two points of which 
were finally overcome.
Carroll and Henry starred for W. & 
J. Lefty found it impossible more 
than once to dribble by Henrys 230 
pounds. He unsuccessfully attempted 
it so often that Coach McCullough 
^finally thought it advisable to substi
tute Mayer for him. Gretzler played 
'-a fine game for Tech. Kofoed did ex
cellent guarding.
The lineup was as follows:
W. & J.22. Tech18.
Carroll ....................F.................... Abrams
Kernott ..................F.................... Doherty
Byerly ......................C.................... Gretzler
Tressel ...................G..................... Cogrove
Henry .......................G...................... Kofoed
SubstitutionsPost for Kernott, 
Kirchner for Carroll, Garviscli for 
'Tressell, Jones for Byerly, Mayer for 
Abrams. Field GoalsCarroll 3, Kernott 1, Byerly 4, Tressell 1, Abrams 1, 
Doherty 1, Gretzler 1, Kofoed 1. Foul 
GoalsCarrol 4 out of 10, Abrams 7 
(Continued on Page Two.)
MODIFIED REGULATION 
UNIFORM TO BE USED
Can Be Secured From Local 
Dealers at Reasonable 
Prices
The latest information to be-obtain
ed on uniforms as acted upon by the 
Military Committee, Dr. J. H. James, 
chairman, is as follows:
(a) Coat. Regulation officers pat
tern, with a black braid around the 
arm, the same width as that appearing 
on the officers uniform.
(b) Plain buttons, the shape and 
size being the same as the regulation 
buttons.
(c) Fatigue cap made of the same 
material as the uniform.
(d) Canvas leggins.
(e) Insignia, C. I. T. in black 
letters on the collar of coat, regula
tion size and a thistle crest on the 
caps with C. I. T. engraved on it.
(f) Tan shoes, army design prefer
able. The entire uniform (Insignia 
cxcepted) can be obtained from local 
dealers at prices ranging from $9.00 
to $40.00, depending upon the material 
selected. Each student must purchase 
his own uniform before February 25; 
Insignia will be on sale at the store
rooms. The committee, however, 
recommends that cotton (khaki) uni
forms be obtained, and that they be 
made of goods that has been shrunk.
SCIENCE SENIORS WILL 
NOT OOLD ANNOALiGALL
At last week'smeeting of the Sci
ence Seniors, it was decided that no 
Senior Ball shall be held this year. 
However, a class banquet will be held 
as usual, and Messrs. Arnold, Eaton 
and Pugh have been appointed to ar
range that affair. The following men 
have been appointed to write ttfe 
Thistle remarks for the men in their 
respective departments:
MechanicalsEaton, Baroner.
ElectricalsParker, Eisenstat.
CivilsMathews, Fulton.
CommercialsSoule, Cosgrove.
MetallurgicalBenter, Brider.
ChemicalsLanice, Weigold.
VOL. XII. NO. 16CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA
A. W. TARBELL WILL BE 
DEAN OF NEW SCDOOL
Economy to be Chief Feature 
of Years Most Formal 
Event
TWO TECH BASKET BALL SQUADSJUNIOR PROM COMMITTEE APPOINTED; AFFAIR AT RITTENHOUSE ON FEB. 21
WILLOUGHBY IS CHAIRMAN
After several months of iifdecision, 
the Junior classes of Design and, Sci
ence finally decided last week upon a 
formal Junior Prom. The decision 
carries with it the resolvealmost 
oath-boundto eliminate as far as 
possible all unnecessary expenses; 
there will be no flowers under any 
circumstances, and no taxis coming. 
Taxis are permitted on the way home 
only in case of the most urgent neces
sity. Although the Prom is to bo 
formal, in order to preserve the pres
tige of the affair; the refreshments 
and other, features are to be Hooverized to the maximum.
Under the agreement established 
last year, the chairmanship this year 
goes to the Design 'School, and their 
Junior Class has decided on Willioughby as t.he head of the affair. 
Under the same agreement the Prom 
will be led by the president of the 
Science Junior Class, which office is 
now;fillod by George Ellerton. In ad
dition to the two already mentioned 
and President Woodward, of the De
sign Juniors, the committee will con
sist of Olson and Stark, from Design, 
and Favillo, Mills, Hoban and Nuttal 
from Science.
The committe held their first meet
ing on Monday afternoon. The first 
big problem wns time and place, the 
former especially being difficult; to se
lect because of the various heatless, 
whoatloHS days. The tentative ar
rangement, which will bo permanent 
unless something unforseon happens, 
placos the Prom at the Ri(.tollhouse, 
on Thursday, February 21. Further
more, the committee confirmed the de
cisions to cut expenses, and decided 
to do the same with the favors. Thoy 
classified tho men ollglblo to attend 
in the same manner as in formor years
Juniors, Seniors and Alumni from 
Scienco and Design; third and fourth 
year loachors from Industries; fourth 
and fifth yoar night men from Science 
and Design.
Tho Prom, coming as it does In 
three weeks, is occasioning lots of pop. 
Tho Juniors are hustling for support, 
and in spito of lh6 economy necessary
-porhaps oven bocauHo of Itthey oxpect to have tho best Prom over.
TECO MEETS ALLEGHENY 
IN GYM S AWAY NIGHT
Plebe Contest With Coraopolis High In Preliminary
Noxt Saturday, February 2, I ho 
Toch varsity basketball toam will piny 
Allegheny College at tho Field house. 
Alleghenys toam Is composod entire
ly of veterans whereas Tech's team Is 
protty well shattered with Williams. 
Hoban and Wire out of the gamo. Wil
liams may bo out of quarantine before 
noxt Saturday but It Is doubtful 
whether Hoban and Wire will.
The preliminary game will start at 
7:30, between Coraopolis High and 
the Plebes. The varsity game will be 
followed by a dance. A fair sized 
gathering attended tho W. & J. game 
in view of the weather and the near
ness of exams, but it is hoped that 
better support will be given the the 
team next Saturday evening.
SCIENCE SOPHS START 
SECOND SEMESTER EARLY
In order to more easily accommo
date the increasing number of student 
soldiers that are to use the facilities 
of Tech shops and laboratories, tho 
War Council of Carnegie Tech decid
ed to abolish the mid-year shop cours
es of the Science Sophomores. These 
courses were to begin last Monday 
and continue two weeks until the first 
of February. As a result all the 
Sophs started the second semester of 
their school year, yesterday morning, 
after spending one brief day in the 
Industries School.
Thoso who groaned loudest when 
the action of the War Council became 
known wore the Soph Chemicals. 
Thoso were congratulating thomselves 
upon their good fortune bocause they 
had been excused from brick shop, 
due to the absence of an Instructor; 
and they celebrated their vacation 
with a theatre party, Monday after
noon. Their happiness was short-lived, however, for Tuesday morning 
saw them again at their school work.
The plans for a Central School at 
Carnegie Tech were put on a. more 
concrete basis with the selection of 
Registrar A. W. Tarbell as dean of the 
new school. Mr. Tarbell will continue 
in his capacity as registrar until his 
successor to that office is chosen.
The purpose of establishing a Cen
tral School is to secure greater admin
istrative and educational efficiency for 
the entire institution. Its curriculum 
will be of a more academic nature 
than that of any of the four other 
schools and its faculty will probably 
consist of the following departments: 
Mathematics, modern languages, Eng
lish, history, economics, psychology, 
pedagogy, military, science and tac
tics, physical education and health. 
Those departments of like title now 
existing in the several schools will be 
transferred as soon as possible to the 
new school, and all these will be un
der the supervision of Dean Tarbell.
A new school in connection with tho 
service, has been formed here at 
Tech. It is tho training school' for 
aviation mechanics and repair men. 
The period of duration of etich class 
is one month.
The men will receive instruction in 
frame work, which will include tho 
attachment and care of the linen of 
tho wings. Thoy will also learn about 
tho propellers and motors, about cable 
splicing and'brazing, and in fact, every
thing which a mechanic should know 
about an aeroplane.
The soldiers and officers number 
about sixty. Tho soldiers are living 
at the Morowood Dorm and oat at tho 
beanory. Mr. Blaisdall and Mr. Sproul 
of Scionce lioad tho department, tho 
former instructing in the care of 
wings and fusolago, the latter direct
ing the work on the motors. Moro de
tails will follow.
CIVIL REUNION PLANNED; 
BIG TIME EXPECTED
SCHOOL OF AVIATION 
COMMENCES WORK HERE
Monday evening, January 28, at the 
Carnegie Music Hall, the student body 
of Carnegie Tech had the opportunity 
of hearing something about the war 
from the Abbe Patrice Flynn, a chap
lain in the Freeh army.
The evening was started with a 
splendid solo by Miss Henning, of the 
Design School, which was well re 
ceived by a large and appreciative au
dience. Classes had been suspended 
in all four night schools and the night 
students availed themselves of this 
opportunity. After Miss Henningss 
solo, a few songs were sung.
The Director then introduced the 
Abbe, who had been in the field two 
years and had seen much of the fight
ing. The Abbe had originally intended 
to use slides, but decided instead to 
tell about the spirit at the front and 
at home. His word pictures were 
wonderful. His appeals to the imagin
ation stirred everyone and brought 
tears to the eyes of many as he de
scribed how the men, strong and 
sturdy soldiers one minute, were sud
denly wounded, and how they would 
call for that most precious possession, 
their mother.
His vivid pictures gripped his inter
ested audience; of the spirit and 
morale of the men; how they attacked 
Fort Diaumont, the key to Verdun; 
how they resolved not to let the Ger
mans pass; how the officers led the 
(Continued on Page Two.)
j* g j 
A *
* THISTLE BOARD +
* ---------- *
? Important meeting of the *
? Thistle board will be held Fri? day, February 1, in the Civil * 
J* Club room, Room 55, Science, at * 
5* 5:15 p. m.
i* ?
In accordance wilh the desire to fur
nish more rapidly to the Nation the 
much needed technically trained men 
and women, the administrative coun
cil has decided to inaugurate a new 
system of admission to Carnegie Tech, 
which will enable those graduating 
from high school this month to enter 
the Institute at the beginning of next 
semester. Notice of this action has 
been sent to the high school princi
pals of the Pittsburgh district and 
elsewhere, where the system of mid
year graduation from high school is in 
effect. It is understood that students 
entering at the beginning of next 
semester will be ready for sophomore 
standing next September, under the 
provisions of the four-term school 
year that has been decided upon by 
the administrative council.
The four quarter school year will 
go into effect July 1, and, in accord
ance with the decision of the admin
istrative council, each term will be 
approximately three months in length. 
The question of the necessary read
justments in the curriculum arid 
credits is being referred to the four 
faculties for independent action.
STUDENTS SUBSTITUTE 
FOR ABSENT PROFESSOR
Prof. Dennison of the Electrical En
gineering department is now in Wash
ington. His mission concerns the new 
war courses that are being Introduced 
in his department. During his ab
sence the class in Radio Engineering 
one of the new war courses, will be 
conducted by H. W. Sheppard and W. 
F. Eames, Senior Electricals. W. V. 
Wolfe, who is also a Senior Electrical, 
will instruct the class in Transformer 
Design.
On Wednesday evening, January 
23, the students of the department of 
Dramatic Arts, School of Applied De
sign, presented Swinburnes Greek 
tragedy, Atalanta in Calydon, (un
der the personal direction of Thomas 
Wood Stevens), before a large and 
appreciative audience.
The rarity of such a performance 
makes it a note-worthy contribution 
to the dramatic achievements of the 
season.
The play is built upon, the legend 
of the slaying of the wirld boar sent 
by Artemis, to ravish Calydon, in re
venge for homage denied her by Oeneus, King of Calydon.
The value of the production is rath
er literary than dramatic, because, as 
Richard Henry Stoddard says, There 
was nothing like it in English verse 
before it appeared and there has been 
nothing like it since. It was the first 
and last awakening of the tragic Muse 
of Greecea stern, magnificent, aw
ful spirit speaking the language of the 
gods and moving to her end like Fate. 
Young priest of an old religion, he 
rekindled the fire upon its antique al
tar and restored the worship of its 
imperious gods. Such was the coming 
of Swinburne, with Atalanta in Caly
don.
Althaea, the leading role, was en(Continued on Page Two.)
*...................................................................... 
* NOTICE! *
* ----------
* The Charter meeting of tho *
* Tech Y. W. C. A. will be held on
* Thursday, February 7, at 0 *
* o'clock in Margaret Morrison *
* Recreation Hall. Bring your *
* lunch. Cocoa will bo served at *
* 5 oclock.
.
FOUR NEW MEMBERS ARE 
TAU
At a supper meeting of the Alpha 
Tau Honorary Fraternity, School of 
Applied Industries, held at the Laurel 
on Thursday evening, January 24, four 
students were elected to membership. 
These ate R. K. Werlcer and F. C. 
Beede of the Teachers Course; F. T. 
Denman of the Department of Print
ing, and G. T. Heddeus, General Equip
ment and Installation.
A feature of the meeting was the 
reading of a number of letters from 
members of the society in the service 
of the government. Plans were out
lined for the first scholarship grant of 
fifty dollars to be awarded within the 
first month of the second semester. 
The recipient of the scholarship must 
be a student of the Middle Year, who 
has been in attendance and has com
pleted the work of three semesters of 
any regular course. Scholastic stand
ing is the sole basis to be considered 
in graniing the award.
DR. BLAIR WILL HAVE 
(CLINIC FOR THE WINTER
Dean. Breed received a letter from 
Dr. Blair this week in. which she states 
that sho is to bo stationed In Paris for 
the winter. The military authorities 
And it Impossible to send people Into 
the reconquered territories this winter. 
Dr. Blair is to have a clinic In the 
Latin Quarter, and her headquarters 
will be in a tenement housing nlnotysix families, and from this center, Dr. 
Blair will branch out.
The C. E. Society has planned to 
havo a real, ohl-fashlonod reunion of 
all graduate and undergraduate civils 
In town around commencement time.
Varsity (left to right), front rowGretzler and Williams. Middle rowKruse, Hoban, Capt. Abrams, Doh
erty and Kofoed. Back rowCoach McCulloch, Levinson, Wire, Cosgrove and Manager Pitts. Plebe team (left to 
right), lower rowManager Pitts, Leete, Lind, Hamman, Lynn and Ribblet. Back rowCoach McCulloch, Nichol, Bieber, Good and Mauer.
TECH STUDENTS ENJOY 
LECTURE BY ABBE FLYNN
TECH WILL NOW ADMIT 
STUDENTS IN MID-YEAR
DRAMA STUDENTS GIVE 
ATALANTA IN CALYDON
There will ho plenty of informal oats 
and smokes, tho faculty will bo off 
duty at tho time and are expected to 
mix with tholr charges, past and pres
ent, just as though there had novor 
been examinations and such things. 
The party will probably be held In tho 
Science School, around tho C. E. Club 
Room, bocause thoy all know whore 
that is. Red Tolor and Rezofsky have 
the matter in charge.
^

---------------------------------------------------

Page TwoTHE TARTANWednesday, January 30, 1918
Gfartatt
Published every 
of Technology.
Wednesday by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute
Entered in the postoillce of Pittsburgh as second-clasB matter.
Yearly, $1.50
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
5c the copyCanada, $1.70
Phone Grant 388-R.
Business ManagerPhono Schenley 2206-J
Harold R. Titus
JANURYN30,
Managing Editor 
L. K. Paquin 
A8aictant Managing Editor 
L. E. Emerich 
Night Editor 
Julius Foster 
Editors 
Marguerito Bollinger 
Salome Stamm 
P. S. McNamara 
Joneph Levin 
Design Assistants 
Ellen Crowe 
James Church 
Science Assistants 
Meinhold Bingham 
Industries Assistant 
R. P. Avery
M. M. C. S. Assistants
Marguerite I-Ialdeman 
Margaret. Lappe 
Anne McCandlaBB 
Lydia McCarthy
Athletic Editor 
H. II. Blau 
Staff Photographer 
William M. Myler, Jr.
BUSINESS 
Advertising Manager 
Charles , II. Todd 
Assistant 
M. I. Cohen
Circulation Manager
II. W. AnderBon
Assistant
C. J. Livingstone
TARTAN OFFICE.
Ilours................................................................................ Room 162, Design
-2:00 to 4:00 Mon dayB.
4:30 to 5:00 Wed nesdays and Thursdays.
The Editor-in-Chie is responsible for the policy of this paper; the Man
aging Editor for the make up.
All business communications should Pe sent to the Business Manager. 
Any dolay in delivery of thiB paper 01* change of address should be reported
at once.___________________________________________________________________________
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the signature to bo withheld if desired.
All news items must be in the student postoillce, Central Building, before 
noon on Mondays. ______________________28'*^^
THE FUTURE
The men now in school have a future which is absolutely un
certain. Ordinarily we can surmise what will probably happen in the 
next few months of our lives, but the days now passing give ample 
proof of the fact that no man can read the future, even the imme
diate future. Every day we see things happening in the intimate 
affairs of our own school life, which were entirely unexpected the 
day before. Probably the first incident which brought the war home 
to us was the sudden dismantling of the wireless set last spring. 
Then our men began to leave for service, whole classes going almost 
at once. After months of uncertainty about military drill, we were 
suddenly confronted with a system all worked out; we were given 
permission to wear the khaki uniforma thing we never expected. 
After practically being assured that engineering students would not 
be exempted from the draft, the men of Science School were, over 
night almost, given a chance to enter the Engineers^ Reserve. Special 
courses are being introduced everywhere, the Radio course at night, 
the Signal Corps Reserve course in the same work for Electricals, the 
automobile and now the aeroplane course for men detailed here by 
the Army. The number of the latter increases daily, and still other 
courses are planned. Finally, the administration has decided on a 
four quarter year, even to the extent of planning for an entering 
class at the beginning of the second semester.
The big question with every man now in school is, Where 
docs all this business put mciM Nobody knowsnon& knows any
thing about the situation except the one fact tlint it is absolutely un
certain. We believe that even the members of the administration 
would be willing to include themselves in that statement.
The only men who are at all sure of themselves are the Se
niors; thoy are practically assured of graduation in April. The 
Sophomores and .Plebes, in spite of the advance in schedule for the 
former, are just the opposite, and any guess as to their prospects 
would be foolish. The Juniors come somewhere in between, and have 
three possible situations ahead of them. First, the Senior year may 
begin for them the first of July; that would graduate them in thirtyfour weoks of school (three quarters), just about a year behind the 
present Seniors. Second, the coming semester may be hurried,some
what so that one ol! those three quarters may be introduced between 
the end of this year and July 1st; in that ease the class graduates at 
the end of next December. Third, the school may be taken over offi
cially by the Government at the first of May, and that would produce 
a situation whose results none can forsee. Any one of these three 
possibilities will produce a corresponding effect upon the Sophomore 
and Plebe classes.
A second rather vital question comes with the inquiry as to the 
establishment of a Reserve Officers Training Corps here. We are 
supposed to get one, but the question is when. The prospects are a 
little brighter, certainly, since the Government granted permission 
to use khaki uniforms, but even that may not signify everything.
About the only thing to doas usualis to take things as they 
come. Every man is going to be in service sooner or later; just how 
soon is after all a matter of little moment. The opportunity* to grad
uate is not one to be given up lightly, both from a selfish and an un
selfish standpoint; but if the big day never comes we are all fatalists 
enough to shrug our shoulders.
One does not have to be an amateur Billy Sunday, or even 
a cataloguer of the various crimes and misdemeanors occurring in 
Carnegie Union to realize that conditions there could be improved. 
None can do it, either, except the men who use that room.
The Junior Prom shows evidence of real life once again. If the 
Junior classes can only revive some of their graveyard members 
with equal success, there will be no question about the Prom.
Basket ball games this year have producd about as much pep as 
an Egyptian mummy. Attendance has been extraordinarily poor, 
and those who have attended might just as woll not have come for 
all the enthusiasm they displayed. Surely everyone is not so near 
being broke as all that!
STUDENTS ENTERTAIN 
MEN AT CAMP SHERMAN
A number of students and the in
structors of t.he Drama Department 
took the opportunity offered to help 
the government by entertaining the 
men in the army Cantonments last 
week. They left Tech Friday after
noon for Camp Sherman, at Chillicothe, Ohio, where they presented on 
Saturday the pageant The Drawing 
of the Sword, and also Molieres 
comedy, A Doctor in Spite of Him
self. Both productions were well re
ceived, and as it ia said that the sol
diers .usually show their displeasure 
by getting up and leaving the theatre, 
the fact that nobody "walked out on 
the performance speakes very highly 
for its excellence.
The bill will be presented at Butler, 
Pa., on February 5, when a larger 
number of students will assist.
DRAMA STUDENTS GIVE 
ATALANTA IN CALYDON
(Continued From Page One.) 
trusted to Miss Dorothy Rubenstein, 
who read her lines with much feeling 
and considerable dramatic power. The 
quality of her voice is especially ef
fective in this character, which is the 
very embodiment of profound emotion.
Miss Eula Guy made a very lovely 
Atalanta and did heroic work, con
sidering she was handicapped by a 
heavy cold.
Mr. Hubbard Kirkpatricks Meleagre, was a creditable performance, 
particularly successful in the last act, 
in that it entirely escaped the melo
dramatic. His reading was also handi
capped by a severe cold. Mr. James 
Church was most fortunately cast "as 
Oeneus, King of Calydon and gave 
one of the finest readings in the per
formance. It is one of the best things 
he has ever done. Mr. William Mulli
gans Herald was another very ex
cellent piece of work as was Mr. 
Colin Clements' "First Messenger 
and Mr. George Traberts Second 
Messenger. They entered so sincere
ly into the spirit of their lines and 
thereby doubled the interest in v these 
characters. Mr. Alex Buchanan as 
Plexippus and Theodore Vielman as 
Toxeus, brothers to the Queen, 
made the most of a small opportunity. 
Mr. B. I. Dickinson was cast as First 
Huntsman, and read his lines ac
ceptably. Miss Anna Dice was cast as 
Leader of the Chorus, which forms 
so important an element in Greek 
tragedy. The various groupings of 
this chorus of six voices, Miss Mary 
Ricards, Miss Alicia Guthrie, Miss El
len Crowe, Violante Bollinger, Miss 
Brownen Chubb and Miss Helen Donn
elley, made very effective stage pic
tures and was one of the interesting 
features of the performance. The 
readings of Miss Ricards, Miss Chubb, 
Violante Bollinger and Miss Crowe, 
were of particular interest because of 
excellent, diction, dramatic interpreta
tion and the timbre of their voices.
The stage settings by J. Woodman 
Thompson, were in keeping with the 
dignified beauty of the poets lines 
and did much to create atmosphere.1 
The lighting (by Theo. Biehman), em
phasized the illusion and enhanced 
the beauty of the costumes, which 
were designed by Katherine Jones 
Engle. The performance will be re
peated sometime in February.
NIGHT INDUSTRIES MEN 
HAVE ENJOYADLE TIME
Friday, January 25, the Night In
dustries men enjoyed an unusual en
tertainment in the room 109, School 
of Applied Industries. Four reels of 
motion pictures were shown, one of 
school life at Tech, one comic, and 
two about the war.
Mr. Hartman, in a short address, in
troduced Lieutenants Anderson and 
Knowles, the speakers of the even
ing. These men entertained the audi
ence by relating a few incidents of 
their army life.
TECH MAN MAY FIGHT IN 
FIRST U. S. AIR BATTLES
One of the first aviators to face the 
German airplanes in an American uni
form will be a Tech man. He is G. P. 
Rodgers, who enlisted win the old 
Eighteenth regiment before the recent 
Mexican trouble and went to the bor 
der. When the United States entered 
the great war, he asked to be trans
ferred to the aviation corps and receiv 
ed permission. He went to France in 
November and, if the Americans have 
started their air fighting, is engaged 
in that now.
J. R. GEARHART WORKING 
AS INSPECTOR FOR NAVY
It has been recently learned that 
John R. Gearhart, who recently re
signed his position of Graduate Man
ager of Activities to go into the Gov
ernment service, has been stationed 
at Cincinnati, Ohio, to inspect war 
materials for the Navy Department.
Gearhart received his degree of B. 
S. in Electrical Engineering with the 
Science Class of 1913. During his un
dergraduate career he always took 
deep interest in student activities, 
athletic and otherwise. Accordingly, 
he was appointed Graduate Manager 
of Activities by the Director in No
vember, 1915.
He devoted all of his time to the 
activity work and made several 
marked improvements in the conduct 
of Tech affairs; most notable of which 
was the organization of the Varsity 
Clan, of which he was secretary and 
treasurer.
With our entrance into the war and 
the demand for technically educated 
men, Gearhart felt that' his first duty 
was to serve the Government. Ac
cordingly, he tendered his resignation 
to the Board of Control on November 
21, 1917, and this was accepted, to go 
in force December 31.
The vigor and initiative with which 
Graduate Manager Gearhart pursued 
his work will make his resignation 
keenly felt in all branches of activity 
this year.
W. & J. DEFEATS PLAID 
FIVE IN CLOSE CONTEST
(Continued From Page One.)
out of 12, Doherty 3 out of 5. Referee 
Dan Daugherty.
In the preliminary to the W. & J. 
game, the Plebes succeeded in defeat
ing Vandergrift High School in a rath
er slow game. The end of the first 
period found Vandergrift in the lead, 
6-4. Not a field goal was shot by the 
Plebes during the entire quarter and 
it was not until after each side had 
caged a foul at the beginning of the 
second quarter that Bieber finally de
cided to drop one in and so tie the 
score at 7-7.
After Bieber had shot another foul, 
Nichol surprised the audience by cag
ing a shot from the center of the 
floor. The Plebes and Vandergrift 
then divided two fouls and two field 
goals, thus bringing the score to 13-10 
at the end of the first half in favor 
of Tech. %
The second period was practically a' 
repetition of the first except that pos
sibly it was a poorer demonstration 
of basketball,than the first, which was 
bad enough. During this period Lynn 
managed to shoot his three field goals. 
Haraman, Lind and Ribblett also cag
ed one apiece.
Fresch, of Vandergrift, shot four of 
their six field goals and played a 
pretty good game. K. Watt caged sev
en out of ten fouls. Lynn did the 
bulk of the foul shooting during the 
game. 1-Ie made 8 out of 11 count. 
Hamman and Nichol played well.
The lineup was as follows: 
Vandergrift20. Tech28.
Fresch ......................F............................. Lynn
K. Watt ..................F................. Hamman
McIntyre .................C......................... Bieber
Richey .....................G........................... Leete
G. Watt ...................G......................... Nichol
SubstitutionsLind for Bieber, Rib
blett for Lynn, Good for Leete, Me
lvin for McIntyre. Field Goals 
Fresch 4, K. Watt 1, McIntyre 1, Lynn
3, Mamman 1, Bieber 1, Nichol 2, 
Lind 1, Ribblett 1. Foul GoalsFresch 
1 out of 1, Iv. Watt 7 out of 10, Lynn 8 
out of 11, Nichol 2 out. of 3, Ribblett 0 
out of 2.
TECH STUDENTS ENJOY 
LECTURE BY ABBE FLYNN
GIRLS SEND BENEFIT 
RETURNS TO FRANCE
On Friday, January 25, the combined 
returns of the Allied Guild Bazaar and 
the French Orphan Dance were sent to 
Paris to Dr. Blair. The draft, which 
amounted to S60 francs in French 
money, will do a great deal to relieve 
^suffering.,
M. M. C. S. WILL HOLD 
WARTIME JUNIOR PROM
The M. M. C. S. Wartine Junior 
Prom will be held in the Carnegie 
Union on February 22 from 9:30 to 
3:00. It. is to be informal in accord
ance with the girls' wishes to make 
simplicity the key note of all wartime 
festivities.
STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
PRESIDENT i'? HOSTESS
On Saturday afternoon, January 26, 
IYliss Mary'Ride, Student Government 
President of the class of 1916, was 
hostess at a Knitting B and Red 
Cross T given by the Alumnae Asso
ciation of the M. M. C. S. in Margaret 
Morrison faculty parlors for members 
of the faculty and student body. Pri
vate Peates wife addressed tlic meet
ing, telling about actual conditions in 
France. The aids were Hazel Thomas 
and Ruth Pontius of the Class of 1916, 
and Gail Sellers of the Class of 1917.
(Continued From Page One.) 
atacks, smoking small cigars, with 
the understanding that he who 
smoked his cigar soonest would have 
to buy the others a supper because of 
his nervousness under fire; and how 
the graduating students of the Mili
tary Academy, when made officers at 
the declaration of war, promised to 
enter their first attack with white 
gloves and their finest uniform. The 
spirit of such men cannot be beaten 
down and often in -their talks with the 
chaplain they voiced their intentions 
to fight to a finish, to victory, in order 
to prevent another such catastrophe.
His description of the damage to a 
little village, one of many, how a sign
board was the only thing left to indi
cate its' previous existence, was_ ex
tremely touching. When he spoke of 
the ruins of the library at Louvain and 
the Rheims Cathedral, one could feel 
the artist expressing himself.
He asked that America send avia 
tors, inasmuch as this work appealed 
to the sporting blood of the American. 
When he finished with a Long Live 
America, he received many a Viva 
La France.
* * ? *!
* TRACK PICTURES *? \
* Last, spring no official track * 
?I* squad or team pictures were *
taken. Anyone having any snap 
i* shots or other pictures of the
* Track team are requested to turn * 
I* them in to Coach Eyman either 4* 
4 in the Graduate Managers Office * 
4* or at the Gymn. These are need- ?
* ed immediately for the Thistle. 4** *
ALL COLLEGES DOING 
NECESSARY WAR WORK
Stevens Institute of TechnologyA
radio class has been started at the 
Stevens Institute of Technology to pre
pare men subject to the draft for the 
Signal Corps. Classes will be held 
four evenings a week from 8 to 10 
oclock. The course will cover a 
period of about six months, and as it 
is under the direction of the Federal 
Board of Education the students will 
have no expenses.
Tufts CollegeTo saye time Tufts 
cancelled its mid-year examinations. 
As much time has been lost there, due 
primarily to the shortage of fuel, the 
faculty is trying to gain all possible 
time, and coming vacations will either 
be shortened or dropped altogether.
Columbia UniversityThe under
graduate body of Columbia recently 
established a Student Activities Fee 
similar to the Student Tax of Technol
ogy. The $10 fee, payable in semi
annual $5 installments,; is to be divided 
in half for the support of athletic and 
non-athletiC activities. A committee 
has been appointed to investigate the 
claims of those students who protest 
financial inability to pay the sum.
Boston UniversityMany students 
are attending the military drill re
cently established at Boston Univer
sity, and now under the direction of 
Harold E. Collins, Techlonogy, 18, 
Cadet Colonel of the Technology Reg
iment, R. O. T. C. According to the 
Boston University News, Col. Collins 
has quickly won popularity with the 
men and is well pleased with their 
showing. It is expected that B. U. 
will make drill compulsory, and suit
able uniforms will be chosen.
Rhode Island State CollegeThe R.
O. T. C. at Rhode Island has adopted 
a demerit system to discourage the 
tardiness and absence of members 
which has been prevalent there during 
the past month. Fifteen demerits are 
enough to cause dismissal of a mem
ber of the corps.
University of IllinoisPhi Delta Psi, 
the honorary senior sorority of the 
University of Illinois, has inaugurated 
a campaign to collect tinfoil. The 
money obtained from the sale of the 
tinfoil will be devoted to various re
lief funds.
When an unexpected holiday was 
given to all classes in the Chemistry 
Building of the University recently 
the students, strange to say, poured 
out of the buildings with handker
chiefs to their eyes, wiping away the 
tears. The cause' of the holiday and 
of the unusual actions of the students 
was the blowing off of the safety valve 
on a cylinder of chlorine gas. The 
escaping gas was caught in a current 
of air and circulated thrpugh the 
rooms and corridors. An assistant 
donned a gas mask and carried the 
cylinder out of the building.
Lehigh UniversityWhen the franity houses at Lehigh were short of 
fuel the University volunteered the 
use of the dormitories to the limits of 
their capacity to the men thus incon
venienced. In addition arrangements 
were made to furnish limited amounts 
of coal from the supply of the Univer
sity.
Worcester Polytechnic Institute
To be in keeping with the existing 
war-time spirit of economy, it has 
been decided to reduce the size of the 
year book of Worcester Polytechnic 
to 150 pages, which will be sufficient 
to cover the essential features. The 
price of the book has been reduced 
accordingly.
PITT BETS R. 0. T. C. 
IS REPOST OFtPAPERS
The University of Pittsburgh cadet 
regiment, numbering about one thou
sand students, is reported as having 
been made an officers reserve train
ing corps by order of the War De
partment. Lieut. Col. H. W. Sickle, 
a graduate of West Point, with 20 
years of military experience, detailed 
there as commandant of the corps, be
gan his work Monday.
The cadet corps was established at 
the university soon after the declara
tion of war last April. Dean H. B. 
Meller was commandant until called 
to serve as captain in the aviation di
vision, when he was succeeded here 
by Prof. Evan T. Sage.
A training school for ordnance serv
ice, begun at the university last Oc
tober, has been taken over by the 
government.
TYPEWRITERS 
RENTED 
1 Late models. 
Three months for 
$7.00. Special 
rates to students. 
Guaranteed Fac
tory Rebuilt Ma
chines.
American Writing Machine 
Company
630 PENN AVENUE 
Bell Phone Grant 1374 
Special Monarch Visible, 3 mo, $5.
CHURCHES
CAMERAPHONE
EAST LIBERTY 
-ALL THIS WEEKConstance Talmadge in Her Latest 
Screen Triumph
The Honeymoon
A Swift Joy Sparkling Comedy 
The Select Star At Her Best
ST. PAULS CATHEDRAL 
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.
Masses: 6:30, 8:00, 9:00, 10:00 and. 
11:00 A. M. on Sundays and Hol$ 
Days.
Vespers on Sundays at 7:30 P. M, 
Parish Hall and Gymnasium, Craigstreet.
ASCENSION EPISCOPAL CHURCH 
Ellsworth Avenue and Neville Street 
DR. WYATT BROWN, Rector. 
REV. E. JEFFERY JENNINGS,
Assistant.
Sunday Services, 11 A. M. and 7:45- 
P. M.
Bible Class, 10:00 A. M.
Tech students cordially welcomed.
BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN 
CHURCH
(Fifth and Bellefield.)
REV. ROBERT MacGOWAN 
M. A. (Glasgow) r
D. D. (Pittsbugh) 
will preach at 11 and 8.
Bible School 9:45.
Christian Endeavor 7.
Dr. MacGowan is here to help 
|j the students. For conference , 
ra ring Schenley 3447. a
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
Shady and Northumberland Avenues
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M~ 
Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M. and: 
5:00 P. M.
Young Peoples Service, 7:00 P. M. 
Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages. 
A cordial welcome to all.
ROBERT B. MILLER, D. D., 
Pastor.
MAKE SHADYSIDE PRESBYTE
RIAN CHURCH 
YOUR CHURCH HOME
Amberson Ave., Near Fifth. 
Church School, 9:45 A. M. 
Margarget Morrison Class, Mrs. 
Frederic B. Shipp, Teacher.
Young Mens Class, Mr. Harry S. 
Calvert, Teacher.
Morning Service, 11 A. M. 
Evening Service, 8 P. M.
Become a Tech student affiliated 
member of Shadyside Church. 
HUGH T. KERR, D. D., Minister.-r
RODEF'SHALOM TEMPLE I 
4905 FIFTH AVENUE E
Near Morewood |
Saturday Services10:30 A. M. != 
DO Sunday Lectures10:30 A. M.
^ Visiting Rabbis from the lead|ti ing congregations of the country 
^ will occupy the pulpit this winq ter. A different Rabbi each 
3 week.
Grace Church
(Reformed)
THE HOME LIKE CHURCH 
BAYARD and DITHRIDGE STREETSFREDERICK C. NAU, Minister 
SERVICES 
Sunday School9:45 A. M.
Morning Worship11 A. M. 
Christian Endeavor7 P. M. 
Popular Evening Services at 7:45. 
Sermons for Head and Heart. 
Hearty Welcome for All.
THE 
I SENSIBLE 
I TYPEWRITER ! 
1 FOR THE 
STUDENT
1535W.
The Personal Writing Machine 
So simple in construction 
and operation that any
one can use it without 
previous experience. : :
WEIGHS 6 POUNDS 
Price $50
Call 343 Court or Write
Standard Typewriter Co.
129 FIFTH AVENUE 
FREE DEMONSTRATION 
OPEN EVENINGS

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, January 30, 1918THE TARTANPage Tlrrea
Fredericks
THE HOUSE OF SERVICE
THE KNABE-AMPiCO
REPRODUCING PIANO
The most wonderful musical instrument 
in the world
The thrill of the artist's personality and magnetism is transfer
red from the concert hall to the home, at the touch of a tiny lever!
All the music in the world is open to you. With the Ampico | 
every shade of expression, beauty of tone colorthe very essence of E 
the genius of Godowsky, Hofmann, Bauer, Ornstein and a host of g. 
othersis reproduced at will, with an art so perfect that all thought [| 
that it is a reproduction is lost.
THE AMPICO IN THE KNABE
Haines Bros, and Franklin Pianos Sold Exclusively by Us, Priced
UPRIGHTS, $850 to $1,350 
GRANDS, $1,600 to $2,050
W. F. FREDERICK PIANO CO.
635-37 SMITHFIELD STREET, PITTSBURGH
DO YOU DANCE?
DANCING LESSONS CLASS AND PRIVATE
Special Class for High School and College Students, Starting Mon
day, October 15, at 8:00 P. M.
JACQUES DANCING ACADEMY 
CRAIG AND FORBES BELL PHONE
MOVEMENT STARTED TO 
POOL COLLEGES OF II. S.
jgjgjgjgjg/gjgMgigMrgMgM5MgMgMgM5MgMgjgMgM5MBMgM5MBM5MgMBM5M5Mffl
BATTERY
"*
te
CITY ELECTRIC CO.
436 Seventh Ave.
All Kinds of BATTERIES 
SERVICE Repaired and Recharged^ ________________________________ If3J3M3M3M3JSMgJ3MSM2JDiJ'clMSMclMGiJcJiSMSM2MSM3M3M3/3M2MSMSMSM3M2MSi
McDOUGrALLS DANCING CLASSES
SHADY AND PENNDANCES MONDAY, THURSDAY, SATURDAY | 
4616 FORBES STREETFRIDAY EVENINGS g
Private Lessons and Beginners Classes every day and evening.
Jazz Fox Trot Ramble Waltz Mirimba Orchestra 1
| STRINGS AND SUPPLIES FOR ALL MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS j
I| New and Slightly Used Band and String Instruments of All Kinds at j| 
j Bargain Prices.
1 SPECIAL FOR THIS WEEK
Genuine Hawaiian Mele Ukeleles, beautifully flamed, genuine Koa 
Wood, Marquetry bound edges and sound hole; Pure and Sweet Toned. 
Value $10.00. Our Special Price Only $5.65 each.GALLINGERS
929 LIBERTY AVENUE Established 1854
The following article is taken from 
the Boston Transcript. It is a piece 
worthy of everyones attention:
The appointment of a Federal Ad
ministrator of Education was urged 
in an address today by President MacCracken of Lafayette before the Asso
ciation of American Colleges. The 
speakers subject was Pooling of Col
lege Interests, as a War Measure, and 
he said in part:
There is a widespread feeling that 
American education is not as efficient
ly organized as it might be to make its 
greatest contribution to the war. The 
experience of the last six months lias 
shown that the need is two-foldfirst, 
the need on the part of the Govern
ment; second, the need on the part of 
the collegesthat in both cases the 
need is not so much for unity of spirit 
and purpose as for co-ordination, 
which is unity at work. The Govern
ment. at Washington needs during the 
war an administrator of education of 
some sort who will be of sufficient .dig
nity and authority to rank with the 
food and coal administrators, and to 
have authoritative standing with the 
Chief of Staff. His function would be 
to co-ordinate the demands made upon 
education by the Government in the 
prosecution of the war.
The colleges need a war council 
with at least seven bureausa bureau 
of propaganda, of legislation, of sta
tics, of finance, of promotion, of per
sonnel, of international relationsand 
national officers wrho shall make the 
educational point of view at least as 
potent in the councils of the nation as 
that of organized labor, or of the anti
liquor movement, or of womans suf
frage. In a wrord, higher education 
j needs a national council and national 
officials to make effective their point 
of view, enlarge their opportunities 
for service, secure appropriate legis
lation, mould public opinion, and se
cure an adequate share of financial 
support.
The Sacrifice to War.
The college course is the latest sac
rifice to war,, according to other speak
ers at the meeting. Dr. Edmund Clark 
Sanford, President of Clark College, 
announced a war programme conting
ent upon established of universal mili
tary training. The loss to each youth 
of at least a year from his ordinary 
pursuits, he said, would probably 
make it necessary to reduce the 
length of college courses to three 
years without a corresponding reduc
tion in the curriculum.
Dr. Charles F. Thwing, president of 
Western Reserve University, condemn
ed the Germanistic frame of mind and 
laid all blame for the war at the doors 
of the German educational institu
tions. The German universities have 
failed utterly to be responsive to the 
ethical, the humane and the liumanstic 
applications of intellectual truth, he. 
said. The German professors have 
been voluntary or involuntary liars. 
Many of the educators attending the 
meeting were of the opinion that the 
loss of funds, due to a material re
duction of students tuition fees and 
the diverting of donations to the Red 
Cross and other similar organizations 
which otherwise might have gone to 
colleges, threatens to cripple serious
ly many of the countrys leading edu
cational institutions.
ALL WORK GUARANTEED
JAMES PARISI
MODERN ELECTRIC SHOE REPAIRING 
217/z ATWOOD STREET PITTSBURGH
BEST LEATHER USED |
fSEMSMSMSMSJSMSMSMSliMSMSMMSMSMSMSMSMSMSiSMSMSMMSMSMSMSMSl
PA.
P.LUDEBUEHL S SON
SHOES AND HOSIERY PENN AND FMNKSTOWN 
Footprints Lead to Detection
The standing of a man is as oft?* 
as not told by his footwearif he 19, 
careless of that, he's apt to be negli
gent of more important things. It 
you will buy your shoes here, you may 
be certain of looking all right, feeling 
all right and impressing others with 
the fact that you are all right. Our 
Shoes are built by some of the most 
representative Shoe Manufacturers in 
the world.
.50 to $10.00 the Pair Special Mens Dept.
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiDuiiiiiiiioiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
Oakland Savings & Trust Co.
THE OAKLAND BANK"
U CAPITAL,................................................................    $200,000.00
M SURPLUS,.........................................................................  $200,00000
DEPOSITS OVER $3,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
'llUlllllllIMlUlllllll!IIIinill!llllllllliniMnnilIIUiIIlIIII0!l[inillIll!!!!l!IlllllIllllllllill!nninilIllllIllll[illl[||ll!llllllIIID!I!llIlinilllHlllll01!IUlIlllll!illllllilllliI!!i!llII!lllll!l!llllllIlDllllll]i
FOUNTAIN PENS AND REPAIRING 
Programs, Favors, Stationery 
VALENTINES FOR MAILING 
SINGER PEN & GIFT SHOP 
Jenkins Arcade 
-------------------Represented By-------------------
aGET YOUR HAIR CUT 
-------at the----------
TECH BARBER SHOP
RAYMOND C. COSGROVE 
N. J. CAMPBELL
Nearest to Tech
AND FORBES 
Proprietor
3 COR. CRAIG
jj FRED FARGEL,
3
YALE GIVES TRAINING 
IN FIELD ARTILLERY
The Military Committee of the Yale 
Club o. New York City has issued a 
very interesting pamplhlet, entitled, 
"Yale and the Guns, in which the 
progress of the university in its R. O. 
T. C. activities is described. Yale is 
training its students for service in 
the Field Artillery, having chosen this 
branch both because oC the countrys 
need and because the training in this 
branch is peculiarly suited for a uni
versity. Captain Robert M. Danforth, 
of the United States Army, has charge 
of the instruction.
Among the equipment possessed by 
the university is a battery of four 75 
millimetre guns, with the accompany
ing caissons, which were sent through 
the courtesy of the French govern
ment.
The course in the Sheffield Scientific 
School and in the College has been 
shortened to three years, thus enabling 
students in these schools .to avail 
themselves of the privileges of the 
R. O. T. C.
Three hours a week are given to 
theoretical work in class room; three 
hours a week to setting up exercises; 
six hours a week to drilling, equa
tion, battery maneuvers, and each 
Monday there is a lecture for the 
whole regiment, making in all, thir
teen hours a week. Each member of 
the Corps is expected to attend three 
summer camps of six weeks each, and 
at the end of three years satisfactory 
work, he receives his commission as 
'Second Lieutenant, U. S. R.
FRATERNITY INITIATES 
TWO FACULTY MEMBERS
Last Saturday evening Professor 
McCullough and Dr. I brig of the Sci
ence faculty were initiated into the 
Zeta Lumbda Epsilon Fraternity. The 
ceremony was followed by a supper 
at the house. Many of the local alumni 
were present and made short speech
es. The Alumni Quartette sang a 
few songs, accompanied by Dr. Ihrig 
on the piano.
STUDENTS PROGRESS 
IN MILITARY DRILL
Beginning next semester,. drill will 
not be held every day. There will 
probably be a varied form of military 
training not requiring ten hours per 
week of actual drill.
The progress of the drill has been 
very satisfactory. The more ad
vanced men have been selected to 
make up the Musketeer Squads, which 
consist of the sergeants, corporals and 
other men who have shown good abil
ity to direct.
The squads are being instructed in 
the manual of arms, in order to teach 
the remainder of the companies this 
part of the drill. It is necessary that 
the manual be taught directly, that is, 
by having as few men to an instructor 
as possible. This method insures 
greater accuracy and speed on the 
part of the recruits in learning the 
movements. The squads are now 
working 011 details which, although 
smal, are important for the soldier to 
know about the manual of arms.
The men not in these squads are 
drilling in their respective companies 
with new leaders. These leaders are 
changed often, in search of the best 
men to direct the companies and 
squads. When the old leaders are re
moved for some other duty, new men 
must be found to take their places, and 
each man must show his ability, and 
help fill up the vacant places.
KNITTING AFTERNOON 
AT MBSilAMEBSCBLAGS
On the first and third Wednesday 
afternoons of February, the sixth and 
the twentieth of the month, the knit
ting work at Mrs. Hamerschlags will 
be continued by finishing squares 
preparatory to their being put togeth
er for the afghons for convalescent 
soldiers.
The women on the faculty, the 
wives of the men, and all students, 
are cordially invited to come and help 
in the work.
FORMER STUDENTS OF 
M. M. C. S. VISIT SCHOOL
Miss Maude Sanford of the 1915 
Cla&s and Miss Charlotte Watson of the 
Class of 16, visited the school on Mon
day, January 28. Miss Sanford is man
aging. the cafateria of the Goodrich 
Rubber Company of Akron, Ohio, and 
Miss Watson is head of the Vocational 
School at Meyersdale, Pa.
NEW SHILLING WILL BE 
PUBLISHED NEXT WEEK
The first issue of the Shilling, Mar
garet Morrisons pioneer in the realm 
of inter-chool activities, will be pub
lished next week under the direction 
of the Household Economics, Costume 
Economics and Science Departments.
A great revolution lias taken place 1' 
in the career of this periodical. It. 
has been acknowledged as a regular 
Tech Activity; its size has been 
changed; and its plan of management 
has been entirely changed. The new 
book is six by eight inches and con
tains forty-eight pages, with two 
stories, departmental articles, a cal
endar of events, some poetry and 
numerous line drawings and half
tones. There are to be only two is
sues this year. The second will be 
managed by the Social Service, Home 
Arts and Crafts and Secretarial Depart
ments.
Place your order early, for this 
book is such a good memorial for the 
first semester of such an eventful 
year, that we fear the supply will not 
be large enough.
DORM MEN MAY TAKE 
EXAMS WHEN RELEASED
The East Dormitory is having a 
rather prolonged session of quarantine 
being confined for thirteen days in all, 
with the possibility of more should 
another case of scarlet fever break out 
before their time is up Friday morn
ing.
The matter which is bothering most 
of the men is that of examination, 
which have been taking place while 
they are compelled to remain in the 
Dorm. This, however, has been ar
ranged, in most cases being left, to 
the discretion of the heads of the vari
ous departments. The men will most 
likely take the examinations after 
school hours and on Saturdays as soon 
as the quarantine is lifted.
 * * * * ******** * * * *
WIRELESS OPERATORS 
WANTED
* Professor Calderwood
* like to have all students,
* have commercial licenses
* who feel they could teach radio *
* telegraphy, to apply to him In *
* person or by letter at once, at *
* room 219, Applied Industries *
* building. *
* * 
* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *
IMIIIIIIM
MelSon 
National 
Bank
PITTSBURGH 
510-514 Smithfield St. 
409-413 Fifth Ave. 
406-410 Oliver Ave.
I Capital - - - - $6,000,000
------------------------ 1
Resources Over 
$100,000,000 
MlllllWIIIIIlllliBllll
I WEBER EXPRESS AND
STORAGE COMPANY 
Bell Phone 239 Schenley.
Moving, Packing and Storing 
of Furniture and Pianos. Genoral Hauling Baggage io and 
from Depots.
j 4616-18-20 HENRY STREET 
PITTSBURGH
J. G. Marshall 
Company
OFFICE, SCHOOL AND
LIBRARY FURNITURE g 
959 LIBERTY AVENUE 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
irifpifajg
"SCHENLEY EATS
A good place to get a good meal.
Meet your friends here on 
Sunday evening.
FRED SUDDEBY, Proprietor. 
CRAIG AND FORBES
iifi^npfr^ii/Uf^r^ir^r^finfij^rtnRIr^ri^iirTiRFi^rirFqrn
m&m.CIGARETTE
More people reach into 
their pocketevery dayto 
buy Murad than any other 
high-grade cigarette in Amer
icain the world.
Murads are made of 1 7 varieties 
of pure Turkish tobaccos.
Pocket-book recommendation tells 
the story.
1ojiamj

---------------------------------------------------

Iage FourTHE TARTANWednesday, January 30, 1918
Military Goods
C. I. TUNIFORMS.$6.75
C. I.T. UNIORMS, I.EINFO l> 0E I)
I3REBOH.BS, OFFICERS QUALITY... .$7.75
SOLDIERS REMEMBERED 
BY NIGHT STUDENTS
o. i.T. 83On.$1.25
fi
% C. LT. LEGGINS.$1.75
0.1. '1. SHEEPSKIN COATS..$15.00
M UN SON LAST ARMY SHOES  T.".'. ,$5.50-$7.00
O. D. SHIRTS,$3.75-$4.50
SLEEVELESS S WEATERS.............$2.50-$5.50
SWAGGER STICKS.................................... 25c-$2.50
OFFICERS  UNIFORMS..........$25.00
OFFICERS OVERCOATS...................$28.00-$40.00
OFFICERS TRUNKS... .$10.50
W. Stokes Kirk
108 SIXTH STREET 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
f.
m
W:
NIGHT SCIENCE SOCIAL 
ARRANGEMENTS MADE
Plebes Down the Vandergrift 
High in Preliminary
KOFOED & GRETZLER STAR
Final arrarigomontB and details o 
the program have boon completed for 
the fliHl. annual night science social, 
at the Sclionley Hotel, Saturday even
ing, February 10. Tho program will 
consist of dancing and other novol 
features,' arranged to take care of tho 
men who may not dance, thus assur
ing overyone a pleasant ovoning.
This affair is worthy of note, inas
much Is it is being undortakon by tho 
second yonr night class and Is intend
ed to become an annual affair with 
tho sueceoodlng classes. Tho class 
has shown an unusuul spirit of co
operation and thus all details hnvo 
been finely worked out and promise 
succoss.
Many of tho men have alroady 
bought their IlclcetB and thoso who 
have not yot gotten theirs are urged 
to got them this week, or next, so a 
dollnllo Idea may bo reached of tho 
number who will attend.
V. II. EDWARDS SPEAKS 
TO CIVIE ENGINEERS
To the Tartan:
Departing from the usual cut and 
dried form of society meeting, the 
Civil Engineers last Wednesday night 
held a very instructive and sociable 
meeting in their club room in the 
Science Building. A short address on 
"The Civil Engineer as a General Con
tractor, was given by Mr. V. B. Ed
wards of the Dravo Construction Co., 
Mr. Edwards himself being superin
tendent of the plant on Nevilles Is
land. Mr. Edwards answered several 
questions on the subject.
After this, the members and their 
Plebe guests played a guessing game 
on construction equipment, the game 
being invented by C. A. Andrews. R. 
J. Beler, 19, won first prize, a pencil 
sharpener. He said that when he 
heard of what nature the game was 
to be, he studied for it.
Officers for next semester were 
elected as follows:
President, C. R. Mathews.
First Vice President, J. C. Speaker, 
Fifth Year Night.
Second Vice President, P. C. Vetter.
Secretary, F. .T. Nuttall.
Treasurer, J. R. Arnold.
Tho most pleasant feature of the 
evening was the supper prepared by 
the official food chief of the society, 
W. G. Huber. There was plenty of 
time for talk during the eating, and 
representatives of each class and Prof. 
Rush of the faculty spoke.
On Friday afternoon, with the 
Building Construction Club, the So
ciety hoard an adderss on Concrete 
Materials, delivered by Mr. Curtis of 
the Portland Cement Association.
On Friday evening, January 24, the 
Nite Tech Design Club held a special 
meeting which was called by order 
of the President, Fred C. Wilharm. 
The meeting was called to get all 
night students to join and was a great 
success with enthusiasm running high. 
Many items were taken up in the in
terest of the student body of both 
day and night classes, the welfare and 
growth of tho school and the Tech 
boys in the ranks.
A committee was appointed which 
will confer with the faculty and ad
ministration in the hopes of trying to 
have the Tartan mailed each week to 
all the boys in the ranks, the school 
to be made feel that they owe this 
much to its sons and daughters who 
have enlisted to fight for us and the 
country. It is hoped the proper au
thorities will appreciate this move and 
do all.it can to show our valiant war
riors that we still remember them.
A new precedent is to be establish
ed in that the night design students 
are willing and have taken steps to 
co-operate with the day design stu
dents in having a smoker. Hereto
fore, the day and night student bodies 
have been antagonistic towards each 
other and such a feeling should not 
exist. The night students are en
deavoring to do their share ' towards 
unifying the various schools and this 
event is to herald bigger and better 
undertakings with both schools band
ing together.
The girl students will also be re
membered on this occasion since the 
large majority of night and day girls 
have wondered what a smoker really 
is and what they do at such functions. 
The boys are therefore making a rad
ical departure from the old practice 
and are extending invitations to all 
the design girls to come to the smok
er. And for the benefit of those who 
are dubious about the affair, the fac
ulty will be in attendance to act as 
garde du corps. After the jollifica
tion, there will be a dance with music 
furnished by a jazz band.
It was also decided to give the club 
wider publicity and to have social ac
tivities, the scope and frequency of 
which have never been undertaken by 
any organization. Many other mat
ters have been considered, commit
tees appointed and from all indica
tions it seems as though the club were 
to be a body of live workers, who will 
work for each others interest, as well 
as for their Alma Mater.
A. I. E. E. ADDRESSED 
DY SENIOR ELECTRICALS
At the meeting of the Tech branch of 
tho A. I. E. E, lapt week a very in
teresting and instructive talk was giv
en by II. W. Shoppnrd, and W. F. 
Fames, Senior Electricals, on Radio 
Telegraphy, Mr. Sheppard discussod 
the sending apparatus and the prin
ciples of its manipulation, touching 
lightly upon tho theory. Mr. Eamos 
confined his discussion to the receiv
ing end, and followed tho samo gonertfl outline as Sheppard. Both talks 
were supplemented with lantern 
slides, showing the details of construc
tion of the various apparatus discuss
ed.
Both Eamos and Sheppard hold first 
class amateur licenses as wireless op
erators and spoke from experience. 
The program was quite timely, consid
ering the interest being now manifest
ed in radio telegraphy and none of the 
audience regretted that he had attend
ed. There was a good attendance at 
the meeting, but a disappointing fea
ture was the total absence of Juniors.
SENIORS TO HOLD DRY 
BANQUET THIS YEAR
In class meeting last Wednesday, 
the Seniors of the Science School vot
ed almost unanimously to have a dry 
banquet this coming semester, but 
since nearly every hotel in Pittsburgh 
has wet spots, the Seniors who take 
their thirsts along with them will be 
able to step out between speeches. 
Since this feed is to be paid for out of 
the class dues, the section foreman 
should got busy and part their consti
tuents from moro dues as soon as pos
sible. Thoso men are Lundeen, Ful 
ton, Parker, Baronner, and I-Ieltzel 
The banquet committee consists of 
Arnold, Pugh and Eaton.
Duo to the few seniors remaining 
in school, there will be no Senior Ball 
this year, oven though the graduating 
class foels the need of something of 
its kind to mark the happy event and 
regrets that 1t will be unable to follow 
tho Tocli custom in the matter. Per 
haps something will be arranged to 
talco its place.
CIVILS GO TO AMDRIDGE 
ON INSPECTION TRIP
STUDENTS
Drawing und Miilhnmutlcnl InHtrujuontn.
Arm und Crnft, Supplita.
Fino Tool '
Completo Mommi Training Equip 
* mentii.
AmerAmic 
Diamond si
PnTsmJiiGi
LINOTYPE EXPERT TO 
LECTURE TD PRINTERS
The students in the printing de
partment will have an opportunity to 
hear a very interesting lecture next 
Friday evening, February 1, when Mr 
John R. Rogers, inventor of type
casting machines, with their improve
ments and attachments, will deliver 
an illustrated lecture on the History 
of the Linotype.
Mr. Rogers comes to Tech from 
New York, where he is consulting en
gineer of the Mergenthaler Linotype 
Company, with which company he has 
been connected since its beginning, 
thirty years ago.
All printers and those interested in 
tho subject are invited, and should 
attend, as Mr. Rodgers is well quali
fied to talk on the subject which ho 
has chosen.
* * * ?!< .j. * .j. {. .j, * ^4,4,4, ,j, ,j.
4* *
I* Y. W. C. A. *
*1 ----- j.
?I* Tho charter meeting of the *
4* Tech Y. W. C. A. will be held * 
4* 011 Thursday, February 7 at G * 
4 oclock in Margaret Morrison 
4 Recreation Hall. Bring your 4 
4* lunch. Cocoa will bo served at 4* 
4* 5 oclock. *
4* *
4*4*4*4*44*4*4*4*4*4*4*4*4*4*4*4'
Chaperoned by Professor Thayer, 
the Senior Civils made a trip last Sat
urday to Am bridge, where they were 
taken through the entire plant of the 
American Bridge Company. At this 
time the privilege of being allowed to 
inspect such a plant is quite unusual, 
but Professor Thayer was able to 
range it. The visitors saw each step 
in the development of steel bridges 
from the designing to temporary erec
tion at the works. Of them all, Dave 
Rezofslcy was most interested, having 
gone without breakfast to catch the 
train and being willing to sacrifice 
luncheon to the good cause i there 
were more to be seen. Pete Fulton 
found the greatest attraction to be 
the office work, that of the lady typ
ists especially.
The section was to have stopped off 
at Edgeworth on the way home and 
inspect the chlorination water works 
at that place,, but their guide, Gellin, 
the only man who could steer them to 
the plant, arrived at the station after 
they had bought through tickets 
Pittsburgh.
COSTUME DEPARTMENT 
EXHIBITS HANDIWORK
On Wednesday, January 23, the 
Costume Economics Department had 
a. display of fancy Georgette crepe 
waists designed and made by the girls 
or the department.. The whole trouble 
was that the display was not given 
enough advertisement for the waists 
were beautiful in design, workman
ship, color combinations and ifit to 
make a paying window display in any 
downtown art shop.
1tfUJF|\ FITTSBURIAGH'SNN & RAIGREATEST Sir STER HRORF. V
1It AVE SHITHFIELD STl
WE GIVE UNITED PROFIT-SHARING COUPONS, SAME AS UNITED CIGAR STORES GIVE
Regulation U. S. 
Army Uniforms
For Military Goods this store is Pittsburgh headquar
ters. We are prepared to supply every Student with any 
article, and with the assurance of quick and satisfactory 
service.
OUR UNIFORMS ARE ALL HAND-TAILORED
Equal to the best custom-made clothes, and guaran
teed to be in regulation according to the U. S. government.
0. D. Cotton Coat and Breeches...........$5.75
Moleskin Uniforms.................................$13.00
Heavy Wool Cloth Suits......................$22.00
Unfinished Pure Worsted Suits.........$30.00
Fine 101/2-oz. Pure Worsted Suits... .$35.00 
Extra Heavy Pure Worsted Suits.... $40.00
OFFICERS REGULATION 
OVERCOATS
32-ounee Meltonsleeves lined with silk;
$35 and $40 
_ j .
Military Raincoats
Knee Length Official Cravenetted
Raincoats.................................................................................i
-------Same in Full Length, $20.00.
Double-faced English Cashmere Rubberized Coats, 
with detachable wool lining, .............................$22.00
Hodgeman Rubberized Wool Coats, with detachable
wool lining; very special, ..................................$25.00
O. D. Caps to Match Uniforms...............$1.15
U. S. Regulation Canvas Puttees, pr... $1.25
Cloth Spiral Puttees, a pair.....................$3.00
O. D. Army Sweaters (sleeveless)....
........................................v___$3.95 to $6.00
O. D. Army Sweaters................................$8.50
Sporting Goods and Clothing SectionsFourth Floor

Army Shoes
,$5.90
Mens $8.50 Munson Last 
Regulation Army Shoes; best 
tan cresco. leather; heavy 
overweight soles; sizes 6 to 
11, A to E;
a pair..........
Men's $14 Officers' Shoes, 
in tan cordovan; unlined; 
plain toe; blucher style; welt 
sole; rawhide slip; all sizes 
A to D; a (ft C
pair...............................vTa w
K. & B. Co.Mid floor.
lciiii!/GilS/Mg/pSMS]SHSMSEMSiSM3M3i3
I SiaESrfitffid Qhno gBelBefieKd Shoe 
Repairing
FORBES STREET 
Opposite Carnegie Library.
High class work done while you 
wait.
LOW PRICES TO TECH 
STUDENTS 
^ Give us a trial.
n3/MSfSMM3MSiD!J3M3Mi5M3M2MSM3M2}l
r3Zoel J. Parenteau S
V. D. NIRELLA 1
A. David Broudy [| 
Efficiency with Elegance 
THE NIRELLA ORCHESTRAS 
410 SIXTH AVENUE 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Bell Phone Grant 360 
Service which is a Distinctive 
Asset to Host and Hostess.
ATTENTION!!
Your uniform and equipments can be secured at 
a very low figure. All U. S. Regulation goods. We 
have on hand a full supply of:
O. D. WOOL BLOUSE AND BREECHES 
O. D. COTTON BLOUSE AND BREECHES
CAPS
SHOES
SHIRTS
HATS
MILITARY BOOKS 
OVERCOATS
TRENCH COATS
MACKINAWS
SWEATERS
GLOVES
INSIGNIAS
PUTTEES
JS/SMSJSMSMSMSiSMSMSMSMSMSMSJSM 
TRANSITS AND LEVELS Ej 
ALL SUPPLIES FOR THE g 
DRAFTING ROOM M
Engineers' Equipment, Instru
ments of Precision, Blue Print 
and Brown Print Papers and 
Cloths.
j B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
126 SIXTH STREET ' |
Our convenient location in Oakland 
enables us to give you excellent serv
ice. Cleaning and pressing done on 
short notice. Special service to fra
ternities and rooming houses. Let us 
have a trial order. Call Schenley S75.
J. E. T. SHUMAN 
3911 Forbes Street
Army & Navy 
Store Co.
Incorporated 
LARGEST MILITARY OUTFITTERS
437 Wood Street
Bell Phone Court 4450
A National Institution
Browning, King & Company
CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS AND HATS FOR 
MEN, BOYS AND CHILDREN 
439-441 WOOD STREET
