HOOK WORM NUMBERFife No*/fee,
ftiBLISHED WEEKLY** STUDENTS 
of i^CAKNEqiETECHNKAL SCHOOLS
JiH I sy 
cWqiV' Y\.
HOKWRM NHAPRIL 27, 1910
PITTSBURGH PENNSYLVANIA
Number 29
Contains Revised Athletic Constitution

---------------------------------------------------

2THE TAKTAN
0X0X0%0S0%0\0S0%O\0\0\O%0%O%0*0S0*0X
5 S THE RITTENHOUSE %
Q *
D?0?0*
g00*
g0s*00?0
m0
Affords Superior Facilities for 0 
Serving Dinners, Balls 3
and Banquets.
The Ball Room floor is cushioned 
making it perfect for dancing.
Special Inducements to Students g 
of Carnegie Tech.
KUHNS
IN THE RITTENHOUSE
*
IROQUOIS

4 Hats, Caps, and Nice Haberdashery to the .
* requirements of the most fastidious dresser.
ij Open Evenings. jT Ti* 4*
sis55;sw5;;ii5;iwi)isc5i5?;?5i;i5;}iii5is;5;si5;>?s;5?50i50?5;5i
 r?j;jj If you want to be well drest let us be your ;j 
loggers 
SOCIETY BRAND SUITS & OVERCOATS 
$20.  $22.50  $25.  $28.  30. V.
Stetson, and Crofut-Knapp Hats$3. and $4. iJ
MclLWAINES I
434 WOOD STREET 
509 MARKET STREET g
542 LIBERTY AVENUE %
Swell Haberdashery - Every Day Prices 5?
%0X0%0X0%0%O\O\0%0\ONOXO\OS0XOX0\0%050SS00S5ttSKS555005S050SSS0
?00O000C^000O^000C^0Cm20O00000O000
MR. ADVERTISER
Do you really know the advertising 
value of a school paper? Do you 
realize that Carnegie Tech is the larg
est technical school in the United 
Statesnot going to be any more, but 
IS? Do you realize that 2500 students 
are enrolled hereenough to make a 
good sized town with no children or 
old people? Do you know that The 
Tartan is its only student paper and 
appears 36 times during the school 
year? Now, Mr. Advertiser, dont you 
think it would pay to let these young 
money spenders (three-fourths are 
men) know what you have to sell? For 
rates address
BUSINESS MANAGER TARTAN,
6117 KIRKWOOD STREET 
EAST END, PITTSBURG, PA.
TELL OUR ADVERTISERS
a5>. 8
MS  itti 
J *
ANNOUNCEMENT
JACQUES 
DANCING ACADEMY
COR. CRAIG AJSJD FORBES STREETS 
g Special night for Tech Boys every Friday
 Instruction^ in Advanced Dances 8 to 8:45
 Full Orchestra
$ *
O*0*0*0*0*0*0*0*0*0*0*0*0*0*0*0*0*0+ 
0 ^4- 0
| BRACE BROS. 
*| Launderers, Cleaners and | 
Dyers
 608 Trenton Avenue, Wilkinsburg.
^ 6102 Penn Avenue, East Liberty
$Both Phones.*0 4*
YOURE FROM TECH.

---------------------------------------------------

(The tartan
VOL. IV PITTSBURGH, PA , WEDNESDAY APRIL 27, 1910 No. 29
Proposed Revised Constitution of the 
Athletic Association of Carnegie Technical Schools
ARTICLE I.
Name.
Section 1The name of this organization shall be 
The Athletic Association of the Carnegie Technical 
Schools.
ARTICLE II.
Membership.
Section 1.The membership of this organization 
shall be of two kinds, active and associate. Active 
membership shall be open to any student of the 
aforesaid schools having paid the required athletic 
fee. Associate membership shall be open to all 
former members of this Association. Only active 
members shall be entitled to vote in general elections 
except as provided for hereinafter.
ARTICLE III.
Control of Athletics.
Section 1The control of athletics in so far as the 
following are concerned shall be vested in a Board of 
Control:
(1) Amendments to Constitution.
(2) Election of president, vice president, and sec
retary of the association, and managers and assistant 
managers of the Varsity Athletic teams.
(3) Awarding of insignia.
Board of Control.
Sec. 2The Board of Control shall consist of one 
representative from each of the following classes: 
Senior, Junior, Sophomore and Plebe classes of the 
Day School of Applied Science; Fifth, Fourth, Third,
Second, and First year classes of the Night School 
of Applied Science; Senior, Junior, Sophomore and 
Plebe classes of the Day School of Applied Design; 
Fourth, Third, Second and First year classes of the 
Night School of Applied Design; Third, Second and 
First year classes of the Day School for Apprentices 
and Journeymen; A, B, C, and D classes of the Night 
School for Apprentices and Journeymen and one 
member of the Alumni Association.
Election of Members of Board of Control.
Sec. 3The student members of the Board of Con
trol shall be elected by their respective classes be
tween the beginning of their school year and the
meeting of the Board of Control held the first Wed
nesday in December at which time the aforesaid
elected members shall take their places on the Board.
The Alumni member shall be chosen by the combin
ed alumni associations of the schools. Each member, 
except those of the graduating classes, shall serve 
for a period of one year.
ARTICLE IV.
Officers of Athletic Association.
Section 1The officers of the Athletic Association 
shall consist of the President, Vice President, Secre
tary and Treasurer. These officers, excepting the 
Treasurer, shall be elected by the Board of Control 
and shall hold the same respective offices on the said 
Board. The Treasurer of Athletic Association and 
Board of Control shall be elected by the Executive

---------------------------------------------------

4THE TARTAN
Committee and shall serve a term of one year.
Sec. 2It shall be the duty of the President to 
preside at all meetings of the Board of Control and 
general meetings of the Association, and to issue calls 
for meetings of Board of Control upon written request 
of five members of the Board, or at such times when 
he deems a meeting necessary. He shall be a mem
ber ex-officio of all committees.
Sec. 3In the absence of the President his duties 
shall ibe performed by the Vice-President.
;Sec. 4It shall be the duties of the Secretary to 
keep a record of the proceedings of each meeting of 
the Association and Board of Control and such other 
duties as pertain to the Secretary of an organization 
excepting such as fall to the Treasurer. He shall 
also 'have the custody of all books, reports and rec
ords.
Sec. 5The duties of the Treasurer shall be to 
keep an account of all receipts and expenditures of 
the Association. He shall render an account of the 
financial condition of the Association at the request 
of the Executive Committee or the Supervisor of Ath
letics. He need not be a member of the Board of 
Control before election.
Time of Election of Officers.
Section GAll the "aforesaid officers, except the 
Treasurer shall be elected by the Board of Control 
on the first Wednesday in December and shall as
sume their duties at once. The Treasurer shall be 
elected by the Executive Committee not later than 
December 21st, and he shall assume his duties on 
January 1st.
ARTICLE V.
Supervisor of Athletics.
Section 1The Supervisor of Athletics shall be ap
pointed and paid by the Carnegie Technical Schools.
Duties of the Supervisor of Athletics.
Sec. 2The Supervisor of Athletics shall be a 
member of the Executive Committee. He shall ap
prove all schedules of Varsity athletic teams, all ex
penditures of Athletic Association funds, and all con
tracts involving any liability on the said Association.
ARTICLE VI.
Executive Committee.
Section 1There shall be an Executive Committee 
consisting of the Supervisor of Athletics, President, 
Secretary, and Treasurer of the Athletic Association, 
and the managers of the Varsity foot ball, base ball 
and track teams.
Duties of the Executive Committee.
Sec. 2The Executive Committee shall transact all 
business of the Athletic Association except such 
business as is provided for in Article III, Section 1, 
and such business as is hereinafter provided for.
ARTICLE VII.
Meetings of the Board of Control.
Section 1The meetings of the Board of Control 
shall be held at the call of the President. A quorum 
shall consist of two-thirds of the elected members of 
the Board.
Order of Business for the Board of Control.
Sec. 2The order of busienss for the Board of Con
trol shall be as follows:
1.Roll call.
2.Reading of minutes of the preceeding meet
ing.
3.Reports of committees.
4.Unfinished business.
5.New business.
6.Adjournment.
ARTICLE VIII.
Auditing Committee.
Section 1There shall be an Auditing Committee 
of three members of the Board of Control appointed 
by the President. This committee shall audit the 
books of the Treasurer during December and June 
and make a report of the condition of the same at 
the first meeting of the Board after the audit has 
been made. This report shall be published in two 
successive numbers of The Tartan and posted on 
the bulletin boards of each School.
ARTICLE IX.
Election of Managers.
Section 1The managers of all teams shall be 
elected by the Board of Control, within one week of 
the last game scheduled in the season of the sport 
for which the manager is to be elected.
Assistant Managers.
Sec. 2There shall be one first assistant manager 
of each Varsity athletic team. There shall be three 
second assistant managers of the Football, Baseball, 
and Track teams. These second assistant managers 
shall be selected one from each of the following 
schools; Applied Science, Applied Design, and Ap
prentices and Journeymen.
Election of Assistant Managers.
Sec. 3The assistant managers shall be elected by 
the Board of Control not later than one month before 
the first game of the team for which they are candi
dates.
ARTICLE X.
Election of Captain.
Section 1The election of Captain for Varsity 
teams for the succeeding season shall take place not 
less than one week after the close of the preceeding 
season. Only members of the team having earned 
their C under conditions stated in Article IX, are 
qualified to vote in this election.
ARTICLE XI.
AWARDING OF INSIGNIA.
Foot Ball.
Section 1To each member of the Varsity Foot 
Ball team who plays not less than one full half in one 
half the number of games scheduled for the season, 
or two full halves in any two games and the final 
game, a C shall be awarded by the Board of Con
trol.
Base Ball.
Sec. 2To each member of the Varsity Base Ball 
team who plays two-thirds the number of games 
played during the season, and to each pitcher play
ing one-third the number of games played during the 
season, a C shall be awarded by the Board of Con
trol. Four and one-half innings shall constitute a 
game.

---------------------------------------------------

-HE TARTANl
T rack.
Sec. 3To each member of the Varsity team who 
makes first place in a collegiate dual meet or any 
place in an inter-collegiate meet, a C shall be 
awarded by the Board of Control.
Basket Ball.
Sec. 4To each member of a Varsity team who 
plays two-thirds of the number of games scheduled 
during a season a letter shall be awarded by the 
Board of Control.
Hockey.
Sec. 5To each member of a Varsity Hockey team 
who plays two-third the number of games played 
during a season, providing at least five games are 
played, a letter shall be awarded.
Insignia of Managers.
Sec. 6Managers shall be awarded the letter of 
their respective teams and shall have a bar of the 
Plaid beneath.
Variety of Insignia.
Sec. 7The Foot Ball, Track, and Base Ball teams 
shall be given the regulation six inch block C and 
the Basket Ball and Hockey teams shall be given the 
regulation six inch block C, but they shall also have 
the B. B. and H. T. respectively in addition, except 
when having won an intercollegiate championship, in 
which case the C alone shall be awarded.
Color of Sweaters.
Sec. 8All sweaters and letters awarded shall con
form to the following colors for each team:
Foot BallWhite sweater with plaid letter.
Base BallBlue sweater with plaid letter.
TrackGray sweater with plaid letter.
HockeyMaroon sweater with plaid letters.
Basket BallGray with blue trimmigns and plaid 
letters.
ARTICLE XII.
Class Insignia.
Section 1Plaid numerals and nothing else may be 
worn by members of class teams but must not ex
ceed three and one-half inches in height.
ARTICLE XIII.
Appeal.
Section 1The Executive Committee may be over
ruled by a three-fourths vote of the total number of 
elected members of the Board of Control. The Board 
of Control may be overruled by a three-fourths vote 
of the active members of the Athletic Association.
ARTICLE XIV.
Amendment of Constitution.
Section 1-This constitution may be amended by a 
two-third vote of the Board of Control.
IN FISHLAND.
Big Grandfather Codfish had just stolen the bait 
off the hook of the inexperienced cityibred fisher-- 
man, and retired to a quiet pool for his afternoon 
nap.
What makes Old Cod so lazy today? queried the 
spry young perch.
Hes got the hook-worm, I suppose, replied his 
merry companion, the Skate, as he bit joyously at a 
green young sprout of sea-weed.
SECOND LECTURE OF SERIES.
Uncle John Brashear on Stellar Photography.
The second of the series of lectures being given 
under the auspices of the School of Applied Science 
for the benefit of the General public occurred last 
Wednesday night. Dr. John A. Brashear was the lec
turer of the evening and presented the subject of 
Contributions of Photography to our Knowledge of 
the Stellar Universe. The lecture was profusely il
lustrated with lantern slides.
After being introduced by Dean Leete, the speaker 
stated that during his lifetime all of our definite 
knowledge of the distance of the stars has been deter
mined, and that the method for doing this rested en
tirely upon the accuracy of measurement obtained in 
this way. Prof. Russell of Princeton, he stated, was 
one of the men who had made much progress and was 
instrumental in determining that the distance of 
Orian was 500 light-years.
One of his most interesting explanations was of 
the difference between making observations by the 
visual method and the photographic. A two-inch 
telescope was pointed to a certain portion of the sky 
and all of the stars visible to the eye were counted 
very carefully. A camera was attached to the same 
telescope, and the count of the stars caught by the 
plate was 15000 more than the first count by the eye! 
He described the method of keeping the camera 
pointed at the same place for the long exposures nec
essary, and showed pictures of apparatus used for 
the purpose, much of which was made by his firm.
The controversy regarding the canals on the planet 
Mars came in for comment. Dr. Brashear showed the 
best photographs ever taken of Mars, and stated that 
he had never been able to see canals or indication of 
them, and that none of his friends had ever seen any
thing of the sort.
Concluding, he lauded the work being done here at 
the Schools, and spoke in glowing terms of the 
methods being used and the results so far obtained.
This week Doctor James will lecture on Rubber 
and Its Applications, with emphasis on automobile 
tires.
APPLIED SCIENCE SENIOR BALL, RITTENHOUSE, JUNE 14.
BOARD OF CONTROL MEETING MAY 12.
There will be a meeting of the Board of Control of 
the Athletic Association on May 12 for the purpose of 
acting on the revised constitution, printed in this 
issue. In order to take action, two-thirds of the mem
bers must be present.
You see, when the person is excited, breathing 
becomes a purely mechanical operation, said the 
Professor in Hygiene.
Would you call that Mechanical Drawing? piped
a Plebe innocently.
Exit, Plebe.

---------------------------------------------------

6THE TARTAN
CARNEGIE LIBRARY NOTES.
Literature on Aeronautics.
The lively interest in aeroplane construction has 
made it necessary for the Library to keep in close 
touch with the literature of aeronautics. A close 
watch is kept on the reviews of new books and any
thing which seems to be of value is added to the 
library. The collection on aeronautics now com
prises about sixty volumes. Some of these are in 
French and a number are older books dealing with 
the early history of ballooning, but among them will 
be found practically all the important new books in 
English, covering every phase of the present day 
aeronautics from the construction of model aero
planes to the mathematical theory of aerodynamics. 
The extensive collection of technical periodicals fur
nishes much material, one journal being devoted en
tirely to aeronautics. The patent literature is also 
of interest.
New Technical Books in Carnegie Library.
Berget, Alphonse. Conquest of the air, aeronautics, 
aviation; history, theory, practice. 1909. 533.6
B45.
Author is past president of the Socit Franaise 
de Navigation Aerienne. He gives a good deal of 
space to a clear, non-mabhematica 1 discussion of 
the scientific principles of ballooning and aviation. 
Considers also the practical construction and man
agement of balloons and aeroplanes and describes 
best known types.
Chamberlin, Thomas Chrowder, and Salisbury, R.D. 
College text-book of geology. (American science 
series; advanced course.) 1909. 550 C35c.
Abridgement of their three-volume Geology 
(550 C35). Non-teehnical. Excellent as a text
book and well suited to general reading. Fully 
illustrated.
Ennis, William Duane. Linseed oil and other seed 
oils; an industrial manual. 1909. 665.341 E65.
Bibliographical note, p. 11.
Best work available (1910) on technology of lin
seed oil. Treats in detail equipment, refining pro
cesses, cost of operation and uses of products. 
Touches on feeding value of oil cake and briefly 
on miscellaneous oils. Methods of testing are 
given.
Finlay, James Ralph. Cost of mining; an exhibit of 
the results of important mines throughout the 
world. 1909. 622 F49.
The result of a discussion started some six years 
ago (in 1903) by T. A. Rickard, and continued by 
W. R. Ingalls, J. R. Finlay and others. ... It is 
the first attempt in a large way to reduce th fac
tor of cost to a common basis for coal, iron, cop
per, lead, zinc, gold and silver. The attempt is 
ambitious, and in many places Mr. Finlay has had
inadequate data. The results are none the less 
extremely interesting and will be widely useful. 
Mining and scientific press, 1910.
Undoubtedly the best exhibit of the results at
tained by important mines that has ever been pub
lished in any country. A. J. Hoskin, in Engineer
ing News, 1910.
French, Lester Gray. Steam turbines; practice and 
theory; ed. 2, 1907. 621.165 F92.
Author was for nine years editor-in-chief of Ma
chinery, and in close touch with steam turbine 
development. He does not attempt to give com
plete theory nor to cover turbine design. Treats 
in a practical way the principles of steam turbines 
of different types, details of construction, opera
tion and performance.
Gilbreth, Frank Bunker. Bricklaying system. 1909. 
693.2 G38.
Practical methods of bricklaying and modern 
methods of handling labor and materials. De
scribes labor-saving devices developed by author, 
and illustrates a great variety of plain and orna
mental bonds which should be of interest to both 
bricklayers and architects.
Low, David Allan. Applied mechanics; embracing 
strength and elasticity of materials, theory and 
design of structures, theory of machines and hy
draulics; a text-book for engineering students.
1909. 621 L95ap.
Author is to be congratulated on the fact that by 
judicious compression, without sacrifice of clear
ness, he has in a volume of only 550 pages covered 
ground to which usually two or three bulky text
books are devoted. Nature, 1910.
Numerous problems and excellent illustrations.
AS IT SEEMS.
On week-days, when at 6 A. M.,
My train I cant afford to miss,
I wake to hear that dd alarm 
Making some such noise as It his:
DING!. DING!!. DING!!!. DING!!!!
But when, on Sunday, that old clock, 
By accident disturbs my bliss,
I roll right oer and go to sleep,
For it just makes a noise like this:
DingDingDing.
APPLIED SCIENCE SENIOR BALL, RITTENHOUSE, JUNE 14.
A new system of student self-control has been 
adopted at the University of Wisconsin. Govern
ment of the undergraduates will be vested in a stu
dent court, which, in addition to its deliberative 
functions, will have power to act finally in cases of 
discipline. . j

---------------------------------------------------

TECH WINS FROM DENISON
Single in the Ninth Wins the Trick
THE TARTAN
Tech won from Denison on Tech Field last Satur 
day, the final score being 7 to 6. Tech took the lead 
in the first inning and kept it until the eighth, the 
awful eighth, when, by some poor playing on Techs 
part, Denison scored 4 runs, thus tieing the score.
Denison was unaWie to do anything with Urguhart 
who replaced Beisgen on the rubber when the latter 
was removed in order to allow Charles to bat. Coldren opened his half of the ninth by hitting a long 
single into right. Blanchard sacrificed him to sec
ond. Mason followed with a fast single to right field 
and Coldren scored, thus saving the game from be
coming an extra inning affair.
In the opening inning Tech scored two runs. With 
two gone Mason received a free pass to first, going to 
third on Wehrs single. When Wehr stole second 
Holden made a short throw to Miller, who returned 
it in good fashion. Holden failed to hold it, however, 
and Mason was safe. Holdren then threw to third to 
catch Wehr but threw high, Wehr coming home with 
the second run of the game.
Denison was unable to do anything in their half 
of the second. For Tech, Vail put one in front of 
the plate. Holden promptly threw it away, Vail tak
ing second on the throw. Coldren singled, scoring 
Vail. Score Denison 0, Tech 3.
In the fifth, Bover hit Wehr. Once on first Wehr 
promptly stole second. Vail singled and Wehr scored. 
That made Techs score 6, at which figure it remain
ed until the ninth when the winning run was ob
tained in the manner given above.
Denison did all of her scoring in two innings, the 
six and eighth. In the sixth two hits and an error 
scored two runs. In the eighth Denison scored 4 
runs. Morse was hit with a pitched ball, Morrow 
sacrificing him to second. Miller made good with 
an infield hit. Stokes was walked, filling the bases. 
Frazier fouled to Morehead. Rankin drove 
out a sharp single which Vail stopped, throwing the 
ball home in an effort to catch Morse. Mason failed 
to catch the ball and took so much time recovering 
it that all the runners were safe with Rankin rest
ing on third. Beisgen fanned McCann and ended 
Denisons scoring.
Charles was put up as pinch hitter in the eighth, 
batting for Beisgen, but failed to do anything. Both 
Tech and Denison made three errors each and Tech 
got 10 hits off Bover while Denison was getting 6 
off Beisgen. The feature of the game was Blanchards 
catch in the fourth. The score:
Tech.R.H.P.A.E.
Coldren, 2....................................... 13030
Blanchard, m................................ 00100
Mason, c ........................................ 22441
Morehead, 1 ................................ 211501
Wehr, r............................................ 11000
Vail, 1............................................... 12301
Gerhart, s......................... .............. 00200
Vatz, 3............................................... 01220
Beisgen, p..................................... 00050
Urquhart, p................................... 00020
?Charles ........................................ 00000
Totals...................................... 71027163
Denison.R.H.P.A.E.
Morse, 3......................................... 20200
Morrow, 2...................................... 00120
Miller, s........................................... 11010
Stokes, 1........................................ 11810
Frazier, m..................................... 01010
Rankin, r........................................ 11100
Holden, c........................................ 011203
McCann, 1...................................... 00000
Bover, p.......................................... 11160
Totals..................................... 66f25113
*Batted for Beisgen in the eighth. fOne out when 
winning run was scored.
Tech..................................... 21201000 17
Denison.............................. 00000204 06
Two-base hitVail. Sacrifice hitsBlanchard,
Gerhart, Morrow, Rankin. Hit by pitcherColdren, 
Wehr, Vatz, Morse, Stokes, Miller. Bases on balls 
Off Boyer 2, off Beisgen 4. Stole basesWehr 2, 
Vatz, Mason. Double playBoyer, Stokes and Morse. 
UmpireDick Nuttall.
TENNIS TEAM ORGANIZED.
During the past week a tennis team has been or
ganized to represent Tech at a tournament to be 
given by the University of Pittsburgh. The commit
tee appointed for the purpose of arranging trials for 
the final make-up of the Tech team consists of Ericson, Flood, and Crawford. Trials will be held on the 
courts at the Schools to decide who shall be sent to 
the tournament at Pitt. Any member of the com
mittee can give information concerning these trials 
which will take place about May 7. Any student in 
good standing is eligible and all interested in the 
game are urged to get in the trials.
The Athletic Association desires to announce that 
it has purchased a net for the use of the students on 
the lower court, and that it is kept in locker No. 991 
of the Applied Design portion of the A. & J. Building. 
The last ones using the court must leave it in this 
locker.
'Foiled again, hissed the Spring-fever Germ 
through his fangs, as the Hook-worm jabbed his barb 
into another victim.
APPLIED SCIENCE SENIOR BALL, RITTENHOUSE, JUNE 14.

---------------------------------------------------

sTHE TARTAN
THE T A RT AN
Published Weekly During the School Year by Stu
dents of Carnegie Technical Schools, Pittsburg, Pa.
Entered at the Pittsburgh post office as second class matter
Lowell W. Nicols, 11Editor-in-Chief.
Donald D Mitchell Athletic Editor.
Eugene B. TaggartAssociate Editor 
Josephine Mandeville, 10, M. M. C. S.As
sociate Editor.
Edith Scott Glenn, 10, M. M. C. S.-Assistant.
H. J. McCorkle, 11Business Manager.
Subscription Rates
Yearly ................................................................. $2.00
Single Copy .....................................................10 Cents
Student Raites
Yearly ............................................................... $1.00
Single Copy........................................................ 5 Cents
For Advertising Rates, address the Business Manager, care 
Carnegie Technical Schools.
The Tartan will print any communications of 
value relative to the affairs of Tech. All such must 
be signed by the writer as a sign of good faith. The 
name will be withheld upon request. The Tartan 
will not be responsible for any opinions that may 
appear other than those of its staff.
EDITORIAL
WHERE IS THE LIMIT?
It seems to be a part of the game of baseball for 
the spectators to give their opinions of the progress 
of the game and comments on the conduct of the 
players, in loud enough tones to reach to all parts 
of the diamond. We hear much of the kill the em
pire, he swings like a rusty gate, hes up in the 
air, oh, you bonehead, solid ivory, variety of 
josh and pass it off with a merry smile and never a 
second thought.. Its all in good fun and nobody gets 
mad. In fact it's a part of what the spectators pay 
their money for. But there is a limit to this sort of 
thing in a college game.
On the occasion of the Dennison game last Satur
day more than the likes of the above pleasentries 
were heard. It was away beyond the limit. Base
ball gives no man the right to conduct himself in any 
way but that of a gentleman, and some of the audible 
comments made Saturday would be no credit to 
Snuffgilligan street.. The college game is supposed to 
be sport for sports sake among intelligent men. We 
must say that some of last Saturdays doings were 
far below what we believe the limit is.
THE PROPOSED CONSTITUTION.
The amended constitution of the Athletic Associa
tion given in full in this number, seems to us to be 
the most businesslike and clear document recom
mended to that body.. Two changes should be noted
and carefully considered; the creation of anExecutive Committee, and time of election of members 
managers and assistant managers. The former 
change is made necessary by the difficulty in secur
ing a quorum of the members of the Board to be able 
to transact any pressing business that may be before 
them. The time of elections has never been satisfac
tory. By carefully considering the proposed change, 
it will be seen that the treasurer has a chance to 
complete his affairs in connection with the foot ball 
team. Members are given a chance to become ac
quainted with the workings of the Board after the 
time when they are elected and when they take their 
place on it.
NOTICE!
Beginning next week and continuing until the end 
of the year, the Tartan will conduct an Advice to 
the Lovelorn column, which will be presided over 
by Miss Ruby Rheostat.
Miss Rheostat will give, free, expert advice upon 
all dignified questions (deserving of her talented con
sideration) to any member of the faculty, any stu
dent, or any alumnus of any department of the Car
negie Technical Schools,providing the correspon
dent signs his or her name to communications.. We 
pause for breath.
Where practicable, the Tartan" will publish all 
communications received by Miss Rheostat. There
fore, watch for some good ones and address all com
munications to Ruby Rheostat, care of the Tartan.
PLEBE BASEBALL.
On account of wet grounds, Greensburg High 
School was forced to cancel the game scheduled at 
Greensburg last Saturday with the Freshmen team. 
Arrangements are being made for a game on the 
14th of May, and it is to be hoped J. Pluvius is more 
considerate then.
The Tech Freshmen team is scheduled to play the 
Pittsburgh College Reserves on Tech Field next Sat
urday, the 30th. The game will be called at 2:30 p. 
m. and it is desired that there shall be a good repre
sentation from the Plebe class there.
Freshmen Team (in unison)There were we, 
waiting at the station.
Thanks to Reyburn, Middleman will have no more 
corns.
Pardon me! said the polite prisoner, to the Gov
ernor of the State, absently, as he picked up that 
gentlemans fountain pen from off the floor.
They say that the Electricity Professor was 
shocked the last time he showed his wife through 
the Lab.
Yes. He saw the voltmeter.^

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN9
INTERESTING LETTER FROM LOUIS G.
HUNTLEY.
Tumaco, Colombia, Jan. 1, 1910.
Dear Folks:
Just out of the woods and everything O. K. Will 
proceed to recount the wonderful adventures which 
befell. A sequel to the great novel of the day, 
Chasing the Rainbow, or Sixty Days on Bananas. 
Here goes:
Some time long ago, in a previous existence, the 
writer left Quito and later Guayaquil for Tumaco, 
thence to proceed inland for the purpose of examin
ing and giving his judgment on a mining property, 
in which, in the case of its proving O. K., he would 
have a share. As 'there are no steamers from Guay
aquil stopping at Tumaco, on account of yellow fever 
and bubonic plague, we embarked in a little sailing 
vessel, and after many exciting adventui-es, and liv
ing on baked green bananas and banana soup for 
two weeks, we changed crafts, and spent several 
more days to Lemones, near Colombia. Here we 
had to go the last one hundred miles in an open 
canoe by sea. Arrived, and owing to not connecting 
with expense money, were pretty short.
One of the peculiar things we saw while coming 
up and out at sea was what appeared to be a crowd 
of men walking around on the surface of the water. 
It was a fishing fleet following up the big schools of 
fish. It was a stormy, rainy afternoon about five 
oclock when we sighted them, and hailed the nearest 
one. He came over, and sold us his fish for a few 
cents, and then we could see he was on a raft of 
three small logs, with a fish line, net, and paddle. 
The supposition is that the others were also on 
something of the kind, but it was certainly a weird 
sight to see, some fifty miles from land.
At a little swamp town called Lemones (or Lem
ons), situated on a little low, muddy delta of the 
Cayapus River in Ecuador, and surrounded by the 
big-rooted cypress trees, and crawling with land 
crabs, sand flies and mosquitoes, we found one of 
the most wonderful characters living ;in this year
1910. He is an old negro, Doctor Ross. He was 
born of a Scotch father, a member of the nobility, 
and a negro mother, on a British Guiana sugar plan
tation 82 years ago. Through some freak of his 
fathers, he was educated in England at her best 
universities, later taking his doctors degree there. 
His father dying, his uncle, out of sheer perverse
ness evidently, and contempt for the worlds talk, 
took him with him as a companion and nephew on 
an extended trip through the Orient, Turkey, Egypt, 
Asia Minor (Palestine) and a grand tour of Europe. 
Lived a year at Constantinople as the guest of a 
schoolmate of his, a Turkish prince, and tells some 
very curious things about -the Turkish character. 
Later, spent two years at Venice. He can talk Ital
ian and French fluently, the which I am witness to. 
He has heard Lamartine speak in Paris in his last 
days, and was a friend of the elder Dumas. Fool
ishly, I tried to catch him up on some of the French 
writers and statesmen of the generation before him, 
and as his eyes twinkled he told me when they died. 
He was in the states at the time immediately preced
ing the American Civil War, and was the pet of the
Boston Abolitionest set. He tells of the different 
kind of peoples in the states and of the old families. 
Since then he has been all over the Western states; 
and while in Ecuador, was Dr. Wolfffs assistant in 
the surveys and researches he made here. Here he 
picked up civil engineering and is a fine draughts
man and instrumentman. He talks like a young 
fellow of twenty, and is up to date in current affairs, 
the Lord knows how. He is a typical negro in all 
except his jaw and grim, caustic sort of mouth, thin
lipped, giving the lie to his broad nose and low fore
head; but he has the brain of as cultivated a gentle
man as the Anglo Saxon race ever produced. With 
no bitterness nor regret, he lives down here because, 
as he says, he fell in love with his wife. Some of 
his great grandchildren live in the same house with 
him, and he says there are 82 people who are either 
descendants of his or directly connected with them. 
He orders every one in the town around as though 
he were the President of the Republic. All these 
things came out piece-meal in the course of three 
days spent there. He is at present in charge of the 
property of a Dredging Company, whose manager 
recently died there. They have presented him with 
an $150.00 gold watch as a token of their apprecia
tion of his services. Wouldnt have missed meeting 
the old boy for a years salary.
From Tumaco we started to go up the Rio Nina 
by canoe relays. Ran into a commercial proposition 
up there which I think can be worked in with the 
rest. Took us seven days to get to the mine, two 
of which were very dangerous, and the last two on 
trails which are unimaginable up there in Gods 
country. Found the mine property all and more 
than was hoped. Can be worked by hydraulic meth
ods. Plenty of water and some 10,000,000 cubic 
yards of pay gravel, averaging over 50c per cubic 
yard. All good, coarse paying gold. We got several 
pansful averaging over a dollar gold a pan. That 
particular bank averaged about $4.00 per cubic yard. 
When we get a monitor on the ground and get to 
ripping that stuff out, watch my smoke. This com
bined with a small river steamer for which we are 
allowing a native to put up his rubber plantation as 
half share, when in reality it will more than pay for 
the steamer, and we still keep control. More or less 
the same way with the mine. This will be particu
larly easy as the ten of us will be on the ground and 
control all reports of expenditures. We also have 
an option on an adjoining property which somewhat 
controls the situation regarding the water supply. 
Also have the political end of the thing fixed al
ready.
Well, so much for that. Left the mine two days be
fore Christmas, although none of us knew exactly 
what day it was. We had been living for a month 
during the examination at an Indians bungalow, on 
baked green bananas, fish, forest rats, and cane 
juice. Once in a while they ground up some corn 
by hand, and roasted it in the husks. Fine!
Well, we took a new route back for the purpose of 
discovering the best way to bring goods in. As a 
result, ran out of everything to eat but some watersoaked smoked green bananas, or plantains. I found 
a ripe one, and ate it. Result24 hours of chills

---------------------------------------------------

10THE TARTAN
and fever. Ripe bananas are sure fever even for 
Indians and Negroes. Even dangerous when cooked.
Christmas eve we built a raft of a peculiar species 
of palmetto, called balsa, four small logs lashed 
with vines and pegs, with our pack on four crossed 
sticks in the center out of the water. Twice the 
Indian who was with us thought we were killed. He 
had never been on this river before, and lost his 
nerve. Got to an old camp made of bamboo and 
leaves, about six oclock Christmas evening, and ate 
bananas and dried our clothes, as we had overturned 
twice in the currentt, and all our stuff was wet. 
Slept in an old pair of underdrawers that night. 
Next 'morning more boiled bananas, and started 
without the Indian. My old Uncle Sam watch had 
gotten full of water, .so I paid the Indian for the 
trip with it. Started down again and only by the 
most extraordinary luck came out on the main river 
at five oclock that evening, so tired we couldnt 
cross to the camp of another Indian where we were 
headed. He came out with a canoe and rescued us. 
The river, or both rivers, were torrents and full of 
snags and enormous boulders. I was on the front 
steering the raft, and my partner was behind all in, 
down and out. He couldnt keep his end straight. 
The scenery down the first branch was weird in the 
extreme. Rushing down between big boulders and 
gravel banks, the water was clear as crystal, and 
here and there a deep pool showed its myriad col
ored floor of pebbles, with fish of all kinds darting 
here and there. Then after shooting down rapids 
that were more like Niagaras, we would rush into 
a narrow canyon black as night, and so deep there 
seemed to be no current whatever, while bats flitted 
and swooped around our heads. Then out of this 
into another series of rapids and whirlpools. I col
lapsed when we hit camp. The nervous strain had 
been worse than the physical.
Next day got two Indians to take us down another 
day on the big river, which was more or less easy 
sailing in a canoe (dugout). Finally reached Tumaco, and am here waiting for the titles and a 
steamer to Guayaquil. To-day is New Years, al
though they dont know it here, and is somewhat 
quieter for me than our strenuous Christmas day. 
Did I tell you I had a two months beard? It came 
out fine, darker than my hair and thick. Had to 
cut it off on account of the climate and jungle mak
ing it difficult to keep clean. But you should have 
seen your son in an undershirt and a pair of pants 
torn and worn off above the knees, coming down on 
that raft with the beard.
Wet, soaking wet, all the time; but with only two 
half-garments on, it didnt make much difference 
except twas pretty cold.
Louis G. Huntley,
Address Quito, care
J. A. McLure.
INTER-SCHOOL TRACK-MEET.
The inter-school track meet will be held on the 
Athletic Field Saturday, May 7, the meet opening at 
9:30 in the morning.
Here is the chance of the season for the fellow 
who thinks he is some good to get out and make 
sure of it. And here is sport worthy of the tried and 
tested veterans skill and strength.
We cannot understand the atitude of the student 
body of the A. & J. school. The fact that there have 
been no men out from this, the largest of the four 
Schools is rather startling. In view of the usual in
terest and enthusiasm displayed by the Apprentices 
and Journeymen in matters athletic, we think it be
hooves these claimants of the Green stripe to get out 
and hustle. Nothing has been done toward electing 
an A. & J. team captain.
There already exists a strong rivalry between the 
Science and Design departments which is the means 
of drawing many men out for the contests. But in 
both these departments there are dozens of men 
whose running experience has been limited to chas
ing street-cars. To all these we say, Come out. 
Find out whether or not you can run, or try the 
jumps, or toss the weights around. And if you dont 
make the school team, you will find that you eat 
more, sleep better and grind less. Captain John 
Chuck Charles, A. S., and Captain Gilkison, A. D., are 
on the field every day to coach and encourage the 
candidates.
A bronze tablet will be given as a trophy to the 
winning school, and gold buttons will be given as first 
prize to the individual winners. In addition to these 
inducements, the team which will this year represent 
Tech in the intercollegiate meets will be picked from 
those who show up best in the inter-school meet. 
And rememberProcrastination is the thief of 
time.
The Maiden Yawned.
He called her darling little dove, 
Compared her to the stars above, 
Said she was his only love,
(The maiden yawned).
Down upon his knees he went,
Plead his cause with love intent,
But she wouldnt take the hint,
(The maiden yawned).
Give me a kiss, sweet one, he said, 
But she shook her drowsy head,
And sent him to his little bed,
(The maiden yawned).
And she hoped hed come no more, 
For he was such a dreadful bore, 
And as she gently closed the door 
(The maiden yawned).
APPLIED SCIENCE SENIOR BALL, RITTENHOUSE, JUNE 14.The University Hatchet.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANil
j* i 
1 M. M. C. S. |
$ t
The Causes and Effects of the Recent Prolonged 
and Perturbing Rainfall.
It hath not rained forty days and forty nights, but 
it doth indeed seem so. The weather man pre
dicted rain for at least four days, and J. Pluvius took 
care to see that the prediction should not fail, and so 
he set down as only another of the numerous fibs 
credited to the weather man. Now, we shall enume
rate the causes and effects of the rainfall in the 
body of this epistle, and also elaborate them. (All 
of which, gentle reader, is according to a foolish and 
insipid old grammar I once was supposed to study 
and never did.)
The causes, forsooth, prove many as we look at 
them.
1. It was generally admitted that the warm 
weather had arrived too soon, hence all the imps 
from Paudoras box decided that mortals who had 
donned low-cuts and summer hats, should not only 
be rained upon, but also frozen to a frazzle.
2. J. Pluvius was really piqued when he found the 
Junior Dance was scheduled for an evening when 
he had arranged fair weather, so to avenge himself 
and the teachers, he planned and ordered the worst 
weather he could think of, for the next week. Why 
the teachers? Pourquoi la dance itait dounce sans le 
consentement des professeurs! oh!
3. The cause which perturbed everyone most, was 
that someone must have revealed to the Water 
Powers the fact that the whole A section, from A 
to S, were going to Beaver Saturday for a high and 
hilarious outing. Alas, it is a wicked world.
The effects of the rain are too many, complicated, 
and sad to name, but the following are most im
portant:
1. Everyone wanders sadly around, nose red, eyes 
brimming over, frantically cultching a handkerchief, 
and ruminating thusly, Did I catch cold because I 
took them off, or because I sat in front of an open 
window at the dance?
2. The As are in such a wicked temper because 
they cant go Saturday, that it is doubtful if they 
write their themes for English. And any way, Mr. 
Esquerri advised them to Chloroform the ex-Presidents, so why should they make up a lot of things 
for a theme? Ive heard it said that a Q or a D is 
forth coming when no theme appears, but who cares 
when it rains all the time?
3. The worst effect of all is that the whole class 
are seriously considering the advisibility of cutting 
school,the very first sunshiny day, and going to 
Beaver then. Just think of that!
Altogether, the precipitation from the clouds has 
had a most demoralizing effect, and then when the 
news that a certain damsel,who formerly graced 
the A section, was married today, is known, the final 
touch of deep blue indigo is there to stay. Consarn! 
Consarn! as the Coon says.
i. Calculate the physiological effect of a midnight 
lunch by summation of,lemon II (dn) v 
between the limit 11.30 and 11.32 P. M.
N. B.Let the n be 8" diam. a la M.M.C. 1 lb 
per c.c.
20. What is the result of the (dis)integration of 
Keller's Calculus between the limits, infinitely 
squared and  O?
30. Find the cost of living in a large city by sum
mation of:
[cost per meal with n and prunes] into the in
tegral, (Pork)Tth d (hamburger), between the 
limits of a live pig and the pot.
40. (H0 analogy) i3=Watt?
hint. The expansion may result disastrously 
to your credit. Be careful.
50. Try to differentiate between a lecture by Prof. 
Pfouts and an atmosphere in which the mole
cules are moving with fearful velocity.
Ans. 2+2=4.
NEWS OF THE COLLEGES.
The faculty of Leland Stanford has decided to per
mit the hazing of freshmen for disciplinary purposes.
A mock trial of a woman charged with treachery 
to her sex in not believing in woman suffrage will be 
held at Syracuse about the middle of May.
President Thomas, of Bryn Mawr College, has ex
pressed her gratification at the decision of the stu
dents in college to abolish hazing.
The son of the President, Robert Taft, was voted 
the best student in his class at Yale.
The University of Pennsylvania has alumni asso
ciations in Tokio, Japan, and Sidney, Australia.
Purdue University will have the largest university 
machine shop in the country when those now in pro
cess of erection are completed.
Hollenback, famous as captain and fullback of the 
1908 Penn eleven, will coach the University of Mis
souri squad next fall.
The University of Toronto has a ladies hockey 
team which has won three games this season and 
has not been defeated.
Four fair co-eds were expelled from Wooster Uni
versity last week for smoking cigarettes.
The Sophomores of Wisconsin are experiencing 
some difficulty in enforcing the tradition that Fresh
men shall resume their green caps April first and 
wear them till the close of the year.

---------------------------------------------------

12THE TARTAN
---------HIGH LOW --------
cWqi WV' 108 SWx8
Have you seen it? 3 Buttons, Tan and 
Black
STOEBENERS
6227 Penn
6222 FrankstownEAST END
Students of the Ohio State will be conditioned in 
gymnasium work this year if they cannot swim be
fore the close of the spring term.
Boston Techs annual, the Technique, made its 
appearance April 14th, and its debut was attended 
by the annual rush for the first copy. The first 
twenty copies of the book were numbered and con
tained the autograph of President Maclaurin.
Yale is making the minor sports pay by placing 
them all under the control of a Minor Athletic Union.
The latest school to adopt the honor system in 
examinations is Boston Tech.
According to letters written by Yale Seniors, the 
greatest thing to be derived from a college educa
tion is the friendships one forms.
University of Chicago has started spring foot-ball 
practice by giving the suggested new rules a thorough 
tryout.
Every student at Harvard hereafter will be com
pelled to pass before his Junior year a special oral ex
amination on reading of French or German prose.
In the last twenty-five years Yale foot-ball teams have 
scored 8,963 points to their opponents 425. Three hun
dred games have been played. Yale has lost only 12. 
Four to Harvard, six to Princeton, one to Columbia and 
one to West Point. Her highest score during this pe
riod is 130 to o against Wesleyan.
The Trustees at the University of Michigan have 
voted down a proposal to establish a department of jour
nalism. The propsed new department was held to be 
an unnecessary adjunct in view of the opportunity for 
work on students journals. It is announced that the 
faculty will hereafter grant college credit for work 011 
the Michigan Daily.
Editors of the three publications at Pennsylvania, the 
Pennsylvanian, Punch Bowl, and Red and Blue, were 
entertained at the country home of Provost Harrison.
In order to become better acquainted with the stu
dents at Harvard President Lowell is having Sunday 
afternoon receptions.
The faculty at Miami has recently ruled that the edi
tor of the college paper, the Miami Student, shall re
ceive two' hours credit.
0tto etting
 Fifth and Wylie Seventh and Smithfield
TELL QUR ADVERTISERS YOURE FROM TECH.
A FAMOUS NEW YORK HATTER MAKES
Fashionable Caps, Soft Hats, Derbies and Silk and Opera 
Hats of the best American and European brands.
Caps at 50c, $1 and $1.50. Soft Hats and Derbies $2.00 
to $6.00. Silk and Opera Hats $5 to $8.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANvs
Jaa. J. Flannery, President.J. C. Pew, 2d Vice-Pres. and Secy.J. J. Booth, Vice-President,
Cm B. Aylesworth, Treasurer.
RESOURCES OVER ONE AND ONE HALF MILLION DOLLARS. DEPOSITS OVER ONE MIL
LION DOLLARS. CAPITAL AND SURPLUS OVER THREE HUNDRED AND SIXTY THOUS
AND DOLLARS. A BANK THAT IS STRONG IN ASSETS, IN MEN, IN COURTESY.
OAKLAND SAVINGS AND TRUST COMPANY
IROQUOIS BLOCK.
A student committee of the University of Kansas 
will meet with the Governor of the State for a confer
ence on foot-ball.
The Syracuse University band has been put on a per
manent basis by the gift of a scholarship valued at $60 
a year to each player. The number of scholarships is 
limited to twenty.
Students at Syracuse v/ill provide 8,000 chrysanthe
mums and 3,000 roses for decorations at their senior 
ball.
Cleaning, Dyeing 
Repairing & Pressing
Bell Phone
1212 J Schenley
LIEBLING BEOS. 
------Merchant Tailors327 South Craig St ,Pittsburg', Pa.
SIPES JAPAN OIL
Superior to Linseed Oil for all kinds of Painting 
JAMES B. SIPE & CO.
North Side, Pittsburg, Pa.
About twenty candidates reported for spring foot-ball 
practice at Brown on Monday. At present the main 
work will be the listening to blackboard talks, but out
door work will soon begin.
The shortage in the funds of Allegheny College, 
Meadville, Pa., it is reported, will reach near $100,000.
There are more than four hundred co-educational in
stitutions on this continent.
Columbia University has recently received $350,000 
in an anonymous letter. The writer requested that the1 
money should be used for a new building for the School 
of Philosophy.
P. SCHIEFER CO. *
Dealer In Sausages, Puddings, Etc.
CHOICE BEEF, PORK, LAMB AND VEAL fVStands 144-146 Liberty Market, E. F., Pittsburgh, Pa- 4*
Bell 2572 Highland P. S A. 1271-X
Tech Barber Shop
Cor. CRAIG arid FORBES STREETS
*
0\O\O\O%O\0*0\0\0%0S0%0Y0%0%0%0y0\0%
Lehigh University's Board of Trustees recently de
cided to lend fraternities certain amounts of money for 
building chapter houses on the campus.
The University of Pennsylvania Kennel Club has ar
ranged to hold a dog show in the parlors of Houston 
hall.
The Cornell and Harvard musical clubs have made 
arrangements to give a jointt concert at Boston on 
May 28.
The crew men of the University of Wisconsin by ac
tion of the faculty were allowed to take their semester 
examinations on the train en route to Poughkeepsie. 
This custom has been followed successfully by the 
Badger institution in the past.
In accordance with Prof. Keller's offer of a prize for 
the best list of problems in mathematics we respect
fully submit the following:
The Senior class at Illinois has initiated a movement 
looking to the abolishment of final examinations in the 
second semester of the Senior year.
A R E Y M ER S
* There are no other
^ candies quite so gocd as
< REYMERS 
a 5
axo%Qxa%o%o%Q%vxo%v%&xc>saxa\ax'a.%Q.%os,*0 OSWALD WERNER & SONS CO. &0 Pittsburghs Oldest and Largest Dyeing and ^ 
n Cleaning Works 8
^ City Office631 Penn Avenue
j* East End OfficeS. Hiphland Ave. & Baum St. 0
0*0*0*0x0x0x05^x03^x0x0x0x0x0x0x0x02
04^4C*0*0*0*0*0*0*0*O*0*O*O*0*0*O*O*B. K. Elliott Co.
PERFECT FITTING EYE GLASSES AND 
SPECTACLES108 Sixth St. (Bessemer Building)*
PITTSBURGH
TELL OUR ADVERTISERS YOURE FROM TECH.

---------------------------------------------------

14THE TARTAN
@f33J333ISJ515J5I5Je!M3iBMSI3M3M5J3Ei SjBjiHMSEjBiSi3ME]S15JSM3M3MSlSM3J3M3I3J5M5JSJSJSM313MS[ISlc!J3JS5MOM31
FOR TEN, FIFTEEN OR TWENTY BONES
YOU CAN BUY A DANDY SUIT AT
Hat ^ /I O Aff | A Top Coats
Furnishings (# am Mm V Slip Overcoats
fil25-37 PENN AYE., Cor. COLLINS, EAST END.
l^lMSMSiSiSMISISISEMSiSMSMBiSiSJSMSJBMMSJSlSMMSMSMMMSJSMSEMSMMc
Professor in a prominent engineering school has sent 
us the following remarkable answers gleaned from the 
papers turned in by his students after an examination 
in Kinematics and Mechanics of Machinery. He 
remarks in forwarding them : It may be thought that 
the answers reflect on the teacher as well as on the pu
pils; but I can assure you, the former did his best!
The answers are as follows:
An eccentric is nothing more than a crank which is 
made all over the piston-rod.
Acceleration is the amount of a body from its highest 
point to a state of rest.
A locomotive has no fly-wheel because it must stop 
at stations.
A manhole in a boiler is made eliptical so that the 
coal may be easily shoveled in.
Targe fly-wheels are made in segments because they 
could not melt enough at one time to cast a whole one.
A boldt in a riveted joint is an example of a 
peace in both sheer and tention at the same 
time.
The condition of positive drawing is that the line of 
the axis does not intersect.
A connecting rod is made of steel because it has both 
contraction and expansion which must be resisted.
Angular velocity ratio is the whirling in a circle as 
of a weight on a string.
The condition of pure rolling is that the point of con
tract must not slip.
An eccentric is used for valve-gears instead of a 
crank to avoid the jerky and uneven motion of the lat
ter which would cause the valve to work wrongly.En
gineering News.
The Oxford, England, boating crew defeated Cam
bridge in the annual regatta recently held on the 
Thames, winning by three and a half lengths, after a 
race of four and one-half miles.
A storm of criticism has descended upon F. Hopkinson Smith, the author, for proposing a school of man
ners in the American universities.
The athletic governing board of Syracuse has award
ed a gold cup to Big Bill Horr for being the athlete 
who attained the highest percentage in scholarship.
. The Minnesota School of Mines will take permanent 
charge of all the technical work in regard to the ore 
tonnage of public lands.
1 he student actors from Cornell are reported to have 
done well on the road in their presentation of Ibsens 
Enemy of the People.
0Y0X0%0%0%0S0X0X0X0*0S0%0%0%0%0%o%0** o8 8 8 8III88
0
TWO CANDY SPECIALS
PEANUT BUTTER KISSES, 15c Pound; 
Regular Price 25c pound. 
WALNUT MOLASSES KISSES,
20c a Pound, 
at
HALLER
36I8 Forbes Avenue s
Iroquois Block
**0\0*0*0S0\0%0\0%0\0S0%0\0%0%0\0\0\a
HERMAN H. ADAM
Dealer In
When Dry Cleaning is done properly you cant
help but be satisfied. See SHUMAN, at 3911 Forbes
near Boquet. Give him a sample order.
I |s 2 %*  I fr
* 4*
4 CHOICE FAMILY GROCERIES %
^ No. 405 Dithridge Street
4j Bell Telephone 178 Schenley
4* 44* 4*4 Beliefield Presbyterian Church 4
4* 4*4* ------- 4*
 CAMPBELL COYLE, Minister J
4- ---------- 4*
% 9.45 A. M.Brotherhood Bible Study. !|!
4* 4*4. 11:00 A.M.Morning Service.
? 7:00 P.M.Y. P. S. C. E. *
4 8:00 P.M.Evening Service. 4.:> ________ 4-> 4
V All Tech Faculty and Student Body Welcome 4**1 V4*4,4,4*4,4,4,4*4,4*4,4,4,i,4,4,4,4,4,4,4,4,4*4,4,44,4^'4,4,4,4,4,4#4*4*
OAKLAND BUTTER MARKET 4
Dealers in
BUTTER, EGGS. POULTRY, CHEESE, TEA AND
 COFFEE
3714 FORBES STREETBell Phone 1933-R Schenley

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN15
I jF>- LUDEBUEHL 3 302ST $
g PENN AND FRANKSTOWN AVE., E. E. gP The New Creation for Men P
$  TAN VJKING CALF99 Button and Blcher 
The Standard of Excellence
MacDonalds
Candies and Ice Cream Soda ..Dainty Lunch 
Tables for Ice CreamFancy BoxesBaskets 
Favors, Etc.
208 SIXTH ST. PITTSBURG, PA.
s%\s\\%\\wss%%%\%%s%s\%sss\sss\s\ss
S DRAWING AND ^% ARTISTS MATERIALS 4
i Kurtz, Langbein & Swartz %% 606 Wood St. Tel. Grant 279. 4
\SSSSS\\SS\\S\SSSSS\\WSSSSSSS\%%SS%
1 Well Pressed is Well Dressed ?
8 r FORBES and ATWOOD ST. j
0 OAKLAND A
| UNION SUITS FOR HOT WEATHER WEAR *$1.00 SI.50 $2.00 #0 MSi t0EM S
 All StylesAthleticSleevelessShort SleeveLong Sleeve , Knee Length, Ankle Length, T^hree-quarter length. A
FifeNeiofe*fe2fe2fe2fe2feTHeEfe2feAKifeififife2
The whole brigade of midshipmen at the National 
Naval Academy at Annapolis have been subjected to 
disciplinary restrictions as a result of giving an officer 
the Silesce which consists of a death-like stillness at 
meal time, when noise is ordinarily the feature. This is 
considered an effront towards the officer and in this 
case the privilege of leaving the academy grounds was 
withdrawn for a number of days.
Pushful Paul.
0 LIBERTY CLEANING & PRESSING CO. 0
0 301 South Craig Street 
4* T
| R. W. MEDICK I
* CHOICE HOME DRESSED MEATS AND 8
* POULTRY 8
^ Both Phones 3804 Forbes Street p
0 *X0X0X0%0X0%0X0%0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X&X<*
044<*4H>i*04*04'04*0*04*04*04*04*04*O*0*l*O*O4O*
$ GOOD THINGS TO EAT 4
* at the Pure Food Stores of 2
$ GEO, K, STEVENSON  CO. 

 Sixth Avenue Higland and Center 4*
Down Town East End jj;
?O4*O4*04*04*0*04'04*04-04*04-04-04-04>04*04'04'04*0
ffi UBM EABMPKMI L27R, 1
g THE GARDEN SPOT OF PITTSBURGH O
jl| The place to live for convenience, pleasure and 0
A peaceful young poacher named Paul 
Possessing just oodles of gall,
When caught with the goods 
In another mans woods,
Said, T only came over to call.
The Green Beetle

---------------------------------------------------

ioTHE TARTAN
SM5J3M31SJSJEJSISJSISISJSJ2JSJSJ3JS1SM313MSMSE3EM3J5J3I1
H. L. BLIND & BROS.
Florists and Decorators
Flowers for all occasions 
THE CHOICEST FLOWERS IN THE LARG
EST ASSORTMENT
East End Store:Bell 5500 Highland P. & A. 166 East 
5424-28 CENTER AVE.
Down Town Store:Bell 1101 Court P. & A. 189 Main 
LIBERTY & FIFTH ST.
A.G. SPALDING* BROS.
th. ( BesmrS
TRADE MARK
Is known throughout the world as a Guarantee of Quality.
Are the Largest Manufacturers in the World of
OFFICIAL
EQUIPMENT
For all Athletic Sports and Pastimes
IT Vili! ar^ interested in II lUU Athletic Sport you should have a copy of the Spalding Catalogue. Its a complete encyclopedia o f WHATS NEW IN SPORT and is sent free on request.
A. G. SPALDING & BROS.439 Wood St., Pittsburg, Pa_
**
03230S03032^S0^33S0S0S0S0SaS0S0S0
The S. Hamilton Co.
PIANOS and 
ORGANS
531 Wood St.,  PITTSBURG, PA.
W IQ~0S0~0S0S0~0SOS0S0S0S0S05QS0~O50~D~
oxo\mo\a*o*o\o*o*o%'0\o*0*a*QN*0\0*
B. & B.
I mens shirts
5 Greatest assortmentsgreatest merit and
* the Shirts to prove it.
Negligee or Pleated, 
jj $1.50.
BOGGS & BUHL.
>O*0*O*0*0*0*0*O*0*0*0*0*0*O*O*O*0*
uld
MEN
For
WOMEN
I* *$****$* 4* 4$**">$**iM,*S**S*4M!,*{*** {1**1* *!**{*4* *4*
* V* 
V ? 4* f * * * * ? * f * * i * * f t 
* ?
SHOES THAT ARE 
BETTER AND LOOK IT
HANAN & BAKER SHOE COMPANY
435-437 Wood Street
* ** "* ** ** *2" s* I*!**** *!* 5* 4* **** i*'"*
4O\*0V^}VI*0\*0N*0N4:>\*0%*0V>0%*0X-H>,\ S 'S
JDc "50X%S
that we print more books than any firm
in the East End ?...........................................Do ~2~on ?Slin.o'w
that our Programs, Topic Cards and Leaf
lets elicit the admiration of lovers of Fine
Printing?............................................................
tDo "2o"U.
that we are prompt, and that an, order 
for a dollar receives as much care and at
tention as one for a hundred dollars? . 
If you are fastidious, if you require prompt and efficient service, come to . 
SF-A-HIS 3c. IsITSCHEE,
6117-6119 Kirkwood Street 
Mr. H. J. McCorkle, Mgr., Tartan, is our representative at Tech.
Bell Phones86 and 9216 Hiland
0\0V0%O*0%0*0S0\0N0\0\0\0V0VO\0\0*0%
K>*0*O*0*O*O*O*O*O*O*R*O*O*O*O*O*O*0
MELLON NATIONAL BANK
514 SMITHFI ELD STREET 
409 FIFTH AVENUE
A. W. SMITH CO.,
FToWsts
SOLICITS THE ACCOUNTS OF 
STUDENTS
CAPITAL - 
SURPLUS & PROFITS
54,000,000 
- $3,000,000
Largest, finest, and best equipped florist es
tablishment in America.
Represented in all large cities
KEENAN BUILDING
Liberty at Sixth Avenue, Pittsburg, Pa.
%0X0\0%0X0X0X0X0\0%0%0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0.f. A A A.. A'.. A A A A AUWTWTvTVTWTVTWVWVUTVTVTWWTyVVTVTVT
