Volume II 
Number VII
11111II1IIITH
Published Weekly By 
Students Of The Carnegie Technical Schools.
CLIFFORD B. CONNELLY
nrmncn 2ft inn? Two Dollars the YearOCTOBER 30, 1907 Ten Cents the Copy

---------------------------------------------------

LARGEST TILE SWIMMING POOL
IN THE WORLD
Forbes and Atwood Streets
OpenDaily from 8 a. m. to 10 p. m.
Sundays, 8 a. m. to 4 p. m. 
Ladies Day, Friday, 9 a. m. 
to 7 p. m.
Take any Fifth Ave. or Forbes St. 
Car and get off at Atwood St.
Dates for parties can be secured by 
addressing
GUY M. DAILEY, Manager. 
Admission25c. Five Tickets for $1.
Saturday Morning from 8 a. m. until 1 
p. m. all School Boys under 18 years 
of age will be admitted for 15c.
SANKEY BROS.
All Grades of 
RED BRICK
Office2112 CARSON STREET 
Both Phones. S. S.. PITTSBURG
MENS SHOE DEPARTMENT.Seventh Floor.
A LARGE DISPLAY OF MENS SHOES OF ALL STA
PLE LEATHERSTHE NEWEST MODELS, COM
BINING COMFORT AND EXCELLENCEWEIGHTS 
SUITABLE FOR STREET OR DRESSBUTTON, 
LACE AND BLUCHER PATTERNS.
$3.50 to $7.C0 per pair.
I1THLLHA RGE TSIWRGA
Wood Street at Sixth Avenue 
PITTSBURGH
James Hay
President
John F. Provan
Manager
THE HAY PLUMBING CO. 
Plumbing & Sanitary Engineers
Bell Phone 1910 Highland P. & A. Phone 971 Fast
5621 Penn Ave., Pittsburg, Pa.
FOR SALE.
SADDLE MARE AT A BARGAIN 
PRICE. PHONE W. E. JUMPER, 
9379 Schenley.
Hotel Schenley
Estimates
Given
for
School
and
Club
Dinners.
SdntiSc Urial! Co. |yn y
MANUFACTURERSIMPORTERS
514 SMITHFIELD STREET 
409 FIFTH AVENUE
CAPITAL$4,000,000
Most complete stock of absolutely 
everything used in the laboratory.
717 FORBES STREET
SOLICITS THE ACCOUNTS 
OF STUDENTS.
SIPES JAPAN OIL
Superior to Linseed Oil for all kinds 
of Painting
JAMES B. SIPE & CO. 
Allegheny, Pa.Resources over 41 Millions.

---------------------------------------------------

VOL. II, No. 7PITTSBURG, PA., WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1907TEN CENTS
TARTAN CALENDAR.
Wednesday, October 30.
FOOT-BALL AND TRACK PRAC
TICE4 P. M.
1912 CLASS MEETING9.30 P. M.
)3eoeo838ceceeceoeoec8cecec8oe0oec8cec8cecepecececi'O8cec8cececooec8oececece23C8CQecececeoeo0S 
I ATHLETIC CONSTITUTION.
Thursday, October 31.
SENIOR CLASS MEETING12.30. 
MASS MEETING4 P. M. 
FOOT-BALL AND TRACK PRAC
TICE4 P. M. 
PHANTOM PARTYM. M. C. S. *
1CLIFOR DB.NEYNC LS
FOOT-BALL AND TRACK PRAC
TICE4 P. M. 
CRUCIBLE CLUB MEETING4 P. M. 
WOODLAWN COTTAGE.
uFndCIFOR DB.NEYNC aS
TECH VS. MT. UNION COLLEGE, 
ALLIANCE, OHIO.
Monday, November 4.
FOOT-BALL AND TRACK PRAC
TICE4 P. M.
ydNsIFOR DB.NEYNC ,S
FOOT-BALL AND TRACK PRAC
TICE4 P. M.
The following is a draft of the 
Athletic Constitution of the schools. We 
print it at this time in order that the 
student body may note the clauses that 
merit change, and offer suggestions at 
the mass meeting called for Thursday at 
4 p. m. for the purpose of revising it.
CONSTITUTION AND RULES
GOVERNING
y8N mFCtNoLN yN48tL4Fp u48BBpsi 
en8pNnL4 essB4LFnLBtS
Four organic divisions of athletics are 
comprised under this association :
1st. School of Applied Science, with 
two sub-divisionsDay Students and 
Night Students.
2nd. School of Apprentices and 
Journeymen, with two sub-divisions 
Day Students and Night Students.
3rd. School of Applied Design, with 
two sub-divisionsDay Students and 
Night Students.
4th. Margaret Morrison Carnegie 
School for Women, with four sub
divisionsTechnical Courses: Day Stu
dents and Night Students; Trade 
Courses : Day Students and Night
Students.
In order that the organic divisions 
may be conveniently distinguished it has 
been decided that each division shall 
adopt a color taken from the Carnegie 
Tartan as follows:
For the School of Applied Science, 
Blue.
For School of Apprentices & Journey
men, Green.
For the School of Applied Design, 
Red.
For the Womens School, Yellow.
And further in order that the separate 
sub-divisions may have distinctive 
colors, it shall rest within the province 
of this association to approve of some 
shade of these colors to signify whether 
the student belongs to the Day or Night 
Course.
CoFtLrFnLBtS
This Athletic Association shall con
sist of not less than three (3) members 
of the Faculty, selected by members of 
the Faculty, and not less than three (3), 
or more than five (5) students, selected 
by each department of the Schools. To 
define the work Department as used in 
the above sentence each sub-division of 
the School shall have representation : 
For instance, Day School of Applied 
Science, not less than three (3) nor 
more than five (5) members; Night 
School of Applied Science, a similar 
number. The whole number of delegates 
or representatives from these various 
departments shall control the Athletics 
in the Schools.
There shall be three sub-committees : 
Executive, Financial, Management.
The representatives from each sub
division of the Schools shall, at the 
beginning of every school year, select 
from their number, one member of each

---------------------------------------------------

4THE TARTAN
of the above designated sub-committees. Association, nor to incur any debt, of to engage in interclass and department 
The three representatives from the any character whatsoever; it being un- contests.
Faculty shall apportion themselves derstood and agreed that the said No student will be admitted to a place 
among these three sub-committees, one Financial Committee will operate this on any All Schools team who has not 
to each. branch of the Athletics of this institu- previously competed in the same sport
The chairman for each of these sub- tion, on such a plan as to make them on a class or department team in at least 
committees to be selected by the mem- absolutely self-supporting. three regularly scheduled contests,
bers of the sub-committees, and to be 9FtF47EMn Students having a general average bein office for one School year. ^ low 65% will not be admitted to a place
Executive Committee. The Committee 011 Management shall Qn the A Schools> team
The functions of the Executive Com- have freedom to control inter-scholastic Members of the An Schools> team 
mittee shall be to pass upon the eligi- an<^ intercollegiate contests. 1 hey shall representing any branch of athletics are 
bility of students participating in likewise supervise all inter class and de permitted to wear the Carnegie Tartan 
athletics, from the standpoint of amateur Partment contests. and to be designated with a large C,
rank, as defined by the Amateur Ath- The Management Committee shall at the discretion of the Athletic As_ 
letic Union and the Intercollegiate Ath- dgnate from its membership, a mem- sociation
letic Association of the United States. ber for each branch of athletics, through Department and dass teams will be 
The Executive Committee will exer- whorn, negotiations and plans foi con distinguished by the colors hereinbefore 
cise arbitrary power in the case of in- tests shall be submitted. mentioned and the initials of their re
fraction of any of the rules laid down * be *ndi\ idual managers sha 1 submit Spectjve departments, as far instance : 
by this constitution. detailed statements as to the cost of gcl100i Qf Applied Science, A. S.,
1LtFt4LFp mBEELnnNNS transportation to places of meeting, Day gchool q App]ied gcienGe> A g ;
The committee known as the Financial hotel accommodations, etc., with copy gcj100j Apprentices & Journeymen, 
Committee of the Athletic Association of agreement entered into witfi other in- A
shall control the expenditures of all st*tlltions, concerning distribution of Whenever the student representation 
monies received from contribution, gate ^unds ^or the appro\ al of the inancial q organzatjon shall outvote the
,1 1  , Committee, prior to any definite ar- ,   r , ,,receipts, or any other sources which are  ^ J expressed opinion 01 any two or three
specifically designated as a part of the rangements. members of the Faculty, representatives,
Athletic funds. The Management Committee must the question under discussion shall be
The member of the Faculty forming not schedule games or contests which submj^ed and finally appealed to the
part of this committee will be dsignt- w'^ conflict with the regular schedule pacujty and executive of the Schools
ed the Treasurer, and shall assume all c^asses- for arbitration.
the responsibility concerning collections, General Rules. In case the student representative disdisbursements and distribution of these Under no circumstances will students agrees with the faculty member of the 
funds, and shall designate for his as- be excused for absences on the ground sub-committee, the matter shall be re
sistant one of the student representa- of participation in athletics. ferred to the faculty representatives of
tives who will keep all accounts under No student who has ever competed on the Athletic Association, 
the personal supervision of said Treas- a team of professional standing, or has No contribution, assessment or similar 
urer. been paid for participation in any means of raising funds shall be emThe Financial Committee bind them- branch of athletics, will be permitted to ployed in such manner as to compel stuselves, not to obligate either the Car- compete on the All School team, al- dents to contribute, who do not wish to 
negie Technical Schools, or this Athletic though such student may be permitted participate in athletics. And all such efPREPARE FOR
MONSTER EXCURSION TO
WASHINGTON, PA., NOVEMBER 9, 1907
TECH VS. W. & J.
*A SPECIAL TRAIN FOR TECH SUPPORTERS

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN5
forts to raise funds must meet with the 
approval of the three members of the 
Faculty Committee, prior to being used 
or put into effect.
A public statement with a combined 
faculty and student audit of the books, 
of receipts, of expenditures, of all 
monies whther large or small, shall be 
posted in the School buildings not less 
than twice a year.
No Alteration of these rules will be 
permitted, without a two-third (2-3) 
vote of all the delegates of the athletic 
association, with at least two members 
of the Faculty Committee approving.
These rules become effective on April 
1st, 1906.
Pending their adoption, the present 
athletic committees, already appointed 
by the several classes of both Day and 
Night Schools shall endeavor to con
form to them wherever possible, with
out violating previous agreements and 
contracts.
A sub-committee consisting of one 
member of the faculty and not more 
than five (5) or less than three (3) 
students of the Margaret Morrison Car
negie Technical Schools for Women 
shall be a sub-committee of the Athletic 
Association to control the athletics in 
the Womens School, upon a similar 
plan, to those adopted for other 
divisions of the School.
-----------------o-----------------
CHANGES OF CONSTITUTION 
ON FEBRUARY 20, 1907.
Article 3Membership.
Section 1Membership Fee $3.00 pei 
school year.
Section 5Management Committee. 
The delegates to the Athletic Associa
tion, to elect one General Manager and 
he in turn to become one of the Man
agement Committee. The various team 
managers are to be elected by Manage
ment Committee.
Section 7The Management Board 
shall have the power of selecting coach
es for the various teams ; also to have 
power of selecting the grounds for con
tests with the approval of the Financial 
Board.
Article 5The regular meetings shall 
be held the first Monday in every 
month.
gNtNCFp fdpNsS
Omit Section 3 (Article 3).
Section 4 (Article 4)Average to be
65%.
Section 5 (Article 5)Plain C for 
football; Block C for baseball; Eng
lish Script C for tracks; Block C 
with B.B. on either side for basketball.
If a collegiate championship of basket
ball or hockey, and championship is 
won, block C is given.
Section 6Department or Class teams 
shall be distinguished by numerals in 
colors of schools.
Sections 7 and 8Change to be de
cided upon.
-------o--------
C. T. S. Imported Plaid Pennants, 
$1.50.
Bates, Mech., 08.
---------o---------
SATURDAYS RESULTS.
Carnegie Tech.17 Waynesburg........0
W. U. P..........T ?.Bucknell ............0
Wash-Jeff ....32Bethany .............6
Lyceum ............T 2California .........2
Tech Freshmen5Sewickley High0
Indians ............26Pennsylvania . .6
Cornell ............6Princeton ........5
Harvard ..........9Springfield T. S.5
Yale .................45Villa Nova ....0
Haverford ....6Ursinus ............0
Army ..............30Rochester ........0
Princeton Fresh11Cornell Fresh. .0
Lehigh ............6Dickinson ........6
Penn. State....75Lebanon ..........0
Rutgers ............39Delaware ........0
Virginia ..........PNorth Carolina4
Swarthmore .. .12Gettysburg ....0
Maryland ........TTGeorge Washn0
Brown ...............24Wiilliams ..........IT
St. Johns ........17F. and M........TT
Fordham .........36Gorgetown ....O
Trinity ............sWesleyan ........0
Dartmouth .... 15Amherst ..........TO
Vermont .........6Holy Cross. ...O
Massachusetts . 4Tufts ................0
Bowdoin ..........sColby ..............O
Brown Fresh..5Harvard Fresh0
Yale Freshmen.. 6Exeter ..............n
Penn Freshmen.18Andover ..........0
N avy ................17Lafayette ........0
Michigan..........Ohio State........0
Nebraska ........Colorado ..........8
Illinois ............25Wisconsin .... 4
Iowa .................2=;Drake .............. 4
St. Louis Univ..42Creighton ........, 0
Vanderbilt .... 65Rose Poly........TO
Swanee ............ 6sMississipi ........O
Memphis Univ. 85Union T. S..... 0
Auburn ............. T 7,Georgia Tech... O
Georgia ............OAlabama ........... O
Marietta .......... 4West Virginia .. 2
Geneva ............6Wstminster . . . 5
Kenyon ............ 5Wooster ........... 0
B. & B.
two new hat styles
One a wider brim modelthe first 
deviation from the extremely narrow 
brim types in voguethe word from 
Men's Hat Style sources is wider brims.
This new style Hat has full round five 
inch crown and inch or 2 inch flat 
set brim$3.00.
Other new Hat style an English idea 
sizes called tween sizessize ar
rangement that corresponds to quarter 
size collarsan idea many men will be 
delighted withstyles, latest English 
blocks$3.50.
Mens Stiff Hats, $2.00 to $6.00.
Mens Soft Hatscomplete assort
ment all the good Hat styles for men, 
young men and boys, $2.00 to $3.50.
I1TTH L IARG
Tech School 
STUDENTS
Will receive special attention, 
if they will come to us for 
their musical goods.
Mandolins, guitars, banjos, 
violins, and other instruments 
sold at rock-bottom prices to 
Tech students, and if desired, 
easy terms (monthly pay
ments) may be arranged. This 
applies to pianos also.
THE S. HAMILTON COMPANY.
Hamilton Hall, 531=533 Wood St. 
PITTSBURG, PA.
We sell the WORLDS BEST PIANOS.
W. S. BROWN
Guns, Ammunition, Fising Tackle 
and all xAthletic and 
Sporting Goods.
523 Wood St.Pittsburg, Pa.

---------------------------------------------------

6THE TARTAN
M. M. C. S.
Miss Mabel Costould, 09,
Editor-in-Chief 
M iss Frances Looney, 09,
Business Manager
1909.
At the opening of the M. M. C. S. 
the large room on the second floor was 
called Reference Library, but the name 
has lately been changed to Study Hall.
The reason for this was not at first 
evident, for to the casual observer the 
walls are well furnished with book
shelves.
A second glance however shows the 
shelves conspicuous for their emptiness; ! 
the entire stock of reference books 
being a dictionary, a chemistry and 
three books on history for topical read
ing.* * *
Rise and Greet the Ladies!* * *
ConundrumWhen Does Money
Turn a Ring?* * *
Miss Bunting Giving ResumeWe 
read Shakespeare as you like it.
Miss StutzNot as I like it!
* * *
Heard at lunch hourMiss Cm 
or, This apple is a peach, it tastes like a 
pear.$ * $
The Household Arts Department had 
the pleasure on Friday morning of a 
visit and impromtu talk from Senorita 
Palacios who has been sent by the 
Mexican Government to study educa
tional methods of this country.
She gave an account of the prepara
tion of some of the Mexican dishes.
Especially interesting was her descrip
tion of the little charcoal stove on which 
all this elaborate cooking is done.
The Mexican system of cooking and 
their ideas of diet are very different 
from ours. All foods are fried in lard 
and great quantities of pepper are used.
No pastry or cake is made. Instead 
simple desserts are used and preserved 
fruits take the place of pastry.
Some dishes must be prepared the 
day before as they require thirty-six 
hours cooking.
One amusing account was of the use
of Tortielas, a thin corn meal cake 
which serves as a plate, a bit broken 
off serves as a spoon, another bit as a 
napkin and finally the plate itself is 
eaten and the meal finished.
---------o---------
1910.
The M. M. C. S. Glee Club was re
organized 011 Thursday, October 24, with 
Miss Stutz as leader and Miss Stoner 
as pianist. Miss Adair has very kindly 
consented to help, and her aid will pro
mote the success of the class.
The club of this year is much larger 
than that of last year, but we would 
be very glad of stronger Junior sup
port, as at present there are a majority 
of Plebes.
The first work of the club will be to 
teach certain songs to the student body 
at large. This will be done in morningassembly.
As is common among Americans 
there is a woeful lack of knowledge of 
^he words of . our national anthems. 
This will be remedied under the tutor
ship of the Glee Club.
The day class of 1910 is to give a 
phantom party for the Faculty and 
Juniors on Thursday, October 31, from
2 until 6 p. m. Dancing and games will 
be the features of the afternoon. 
---------o---------
Senior Class meeting 12 :30 Thursday.
Kum.
 0---------
NOTICE.
Mass meeting 4 oclock Thursday, 
Assembly Room. Every member of the 
school report.
---------o---------
Decorate your room !
C. T. S. Tartan Plaid Pennants, $1.50.
Sold by Bates, Mech., 08.------o------
BILLY DID IT!
Why Swoop, Professor Wurt's sage 
who discussd 
Of Right Hand Rules so wiselyhe is 
thrust
Like a foolish Prophet forth ; his words 
to scorn
Are scatterd, and his mouth is stopt 
with Dust.
* * *
Oh ! its just beautiful !
(Guess who this is.)* * *
Sign Painting & Lettering 
McKee & Tingley.
HAND
TURNED
COLLARS
STEVENSON & FORBES STREETS
Bell Phone 2943 Grant
P. & A. Phone 148 Main
Everthing for the Plumber
Bailey-Farrell Mfg. Co.
Third Ave. & Ross St. Pittsburg, Pa.
Largest exclusive Plumbing Supply 
House in Western Pennsylvania.
P. & A. Phone, Main 773.
Bell Phone, Grant 773.
EDWIN M. HILL
LUMBER 
Mill Work 
2601 Penn Ave. Pittsburg, Pa.
B. K. ELLIOTT
COMPANY
DRAWING 
MATERIALS
108 SIXTH STREET

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN7
COACH JOE THOMPSON 
SPEAKS.
The first cross country run held last 
Friday afternoon was a huge success, in 
everything except numbers; we ought 
to have had at least ten more entries. 
There is yet time for additional entries 
and it is hoped that the following plan 
will encourage many men to try for the 
prizes that are offered. For the benefit 
of those who were not entered in the 
last run, there will be an opportunity to 
compete in the two succeeding races un
der the following conditions: A man
finishing first in the next race will have 
his number of points doubled and then 
a handicap of one point added to his 
total which would give him a total of 
three points. Suppose he should finish 
second his total number of points would 
be five. We hope to make this cross 
country running a success, and this 
can oniy be done by entering into it 
with vim and dash. The men who train 
faithfully for these races will have a de
cided advantage next spring for the 
relay team that will be sent to Philadel
phia and bear this in mind when your 
work seems hard: it is j ust as hard on 
the other fellow, and a little bit of 
determination on your part may put him 
out of the running. Ever consider this, 
let the race be what it may, the other 
fellow is as hard pressed as you are. 
Keep this. constantly in mind and 
whether your activity be in the indus
trial or the athletic world success will 
crown your efforts.
The work of Bates and Wylie was 
good, each man will win points in the 
numerous track meets contemplated 
next spring. The work of the fellows 
who finished in the rear deserve the 
highest praise. We would all run if we 
could finish first, but the fellow who 
knows he cannot finish first and yet 
sticks to it, is worthy of commendation. 
They are the runners of tomorrow.
Scrubs come out and help us get in 
shape to defeat W. & J. You may not 
play in the game, but if you come out 
faithfully for the next two weeks, you 
will have played your part as well as 
the man who scores touch downs against 
W. & J. Our team is just now show
ing its true worth and may yet be a fac
tor in the Western Pennsylvania cham
pionship.
NpN4nCL4Fps .sS 4L.LpsS
Football teams made up of men from 
the Civil and Electrical departments 
clashed on the campus last Friday after
noon. The contest was replete with 
exciting plays and rather a neat exhibi
tion in every department of the game. 
End runs and forward passes were fre
quent methods of attack used by the 
combatants and while neither tallied a 
score, some good gains were made, and 
goal lines were several times in dan
ger. The Electricals gained much more 
ground than their opponents, through 
the use of cleverly executed trick plays, 
but they seemed to lack the cool un
erring judgment that characterized the 
Civils, and always saved them when 
their line was being threatened.
P. B. Martin, of the Electricals, was 
the undisputed star of the game. In 
the many attempts to circle his end, none 
were rewarded with anything but a loss. 
Halferty and Exline played well for the 
Civils. The line-up:
lpN4nCL4FpsS mL.LpsS
Colmery ..............R. H......... Dornberger
Olnhausen ..........L. H................ Coursin
Lytle ....................F. B......................... Orr
Campbell .............Q. B................... Mason
Noll ..........................C................ Jamieson
Vassilaros...........R. G............. Nicholson
Ulrich .......................R. T................. Exline
P. B. Martin....R. E............ Hammond
Lucas ....................L. G........... Sweringen
Givens ..................L. T................ Redpath
Narrance .................L. E............. Halferty
Time of halves15 minutes. Referee
Henderson. .(UmpireMr. Henderson. 
TimekeeperMr. Reed. Linesmen 
Silvernail and Burnside. Substitutes 
Silvernail for Burnside. ScoreElectri
cals o, Civils o.
 o---------
Carnegie Tech Pennants, $1.50.
Bates, Mech., 08.
Decomposition by Sea Water.
In a recent issue of the Annales 
des Ponts et Chaussees, Mr. M. H. 
Le Chatelier contributes an article 
regarding the action of sea water on 
cement and concrete, in which he 
states that all hydraulic binding 
agents without exception may be de
composed by sea water, although the 
rate of this action varies within wide 
limits. The most essential condition 
to render cements immune from dePHOTOGRAPHS
THE OAKLAND STUDIO
Forbes Building Forbes and Atwood Sts.
Phone Schenley 1644
Special Rates to Students, Etc. 
GEO. H. RICHARDS, Photographer
Late of the East End and Sewickley
WMNPPNODFIorrNrb
Stationers
Magazines Post Cards
LOWNEYS BOX CANDIES
3702 Forbes Street 
Cigars Tobacco
WALLACE OPTICAL CO.
Suite 503-505 
Diamond Bank Building 
PITTSBURG, PA.
Eyes tested free. Prescriptions 
promptly filled. All work 
guaranteed.
L Si S. WILSON COMPANY
Contractors and 
. . Builders . .
Office Buildings 
Fine Residences 
Power Plants 
Bank and 
Office Fixtures
composition in the sea is to reduce as 
much as possible the volume of water 
employed in gauging the cements.
Huntley selling Economic notes in 
hall. Mr. Pfouts comes along and sees 
every one passing Huntley a quarter.
Mr. Pfouts: Let me in on that graft, 
will you?

---------------------------------------------------

8THE TARTAN
THE TARTAN
Published Weekly by Students of the 
Carnegie Technical Schools, 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Entered at the Pittsburgh postoffice as second 
class matter,
F. E. Foster, 08.............Editor-in-Chief
R. K. Merrill, 08... .Associate Editor
J. H. Taxis, 10.........Associate Editor
Bert Turner, 09........Associate Editor
J. M. Sampson, 08. .Business Manager
C. L. Carver, App. Science (Night),
Asst. Bus. Mgr. 
L. L- Beeken..............Circulation M'gr
Correspondents.
A. F. Stamm..Applied Science (Night)
D. J. Spence, 08............Applied Design
J. C. French.............................Industrials
Subscription Rates.
Yearly......................................$2.00
Single Copy - - - 10 Cents
For Advertising Rates address the 
Business Manager, Care Carnegie 
Technical Schools.
CHANCES GOOD TO SECURE 
FUEL TESTING PLANT.
Dr. Hamerschlag and Professor Brashear inspected the Fuel Testing Plant 
located at the Jamestown Exposition 
last week and are of the opinion that 
the chances are good of securing its 
permanent location in this city. Pro
fessor Brashear said:
What we want to do now is to 
arouse interest among the manufactur
ers, and show the government that we 
want the plant. It will be invaluable to 
Pittsburg. It will benefit the manufac
turers and be of inestimable usefulness 
to the educational institutions here, es
pecially the technical schools.
Prof. Brashear stated that a commit
tee would be appointed to select the lo
cation for the plant. Dr. Charles B. 
Dudley, of Altoona, chemist for the 
Pennsylvania Railroad, is chairman, and 
the other members will be taken from 
the army, the navy and the leading elec
trical, civil, mechanical, mining and 
railroad engineering societies. The 
committee probably will visit the dif
ferent cities that have asked for the 
plant, and look over the different ad
vantages they have to offer.
Pittsburg is thought to have better 
chances than many of the other cities
by reason of the fact that many great 
industries are located here, and the 
city is centrally located, being neither 
too far east or too far west to make 
the plant accesible to New York or 
Chicago, Buffalo or Richmond. Va.
Prof. Brashear pointed out these 
fact, but added that the city 
would have to work hard to get 
the plant, as the East will make stren
uous efforts to secure the institution and 
Chicago will do almost anything to get 
it. The Chamber of Commerce has a 
committee, of which W. L. Jones is 
chairman, that is working to secure the 
plant for Pittsburg. Julian Kennedy, 
the eminent Pittsburg engineer, is ex
pected to be appointed on the commit
tee that will make the selection.
The government coal testing plant 
was first stablished in St. Louis when 
the fair was being held there. Later 
it was transferred to Norfolk for the 
Jamestown Exposition.
The plant is a very extensive affair, 
Prof. Brashear. It occupies a large 
building, and the government is taking 
a great deal of interest in it. It was 
particularly interesting to us because of 
the tests that are being made for the 
prevention of smoke.  We saw some 
very successful experiments made with 
big boilers.
Several suggestions for a site have 
been made, and it is even advised that 
the city offer a location free. I dont 
know whether the government would be 
willing to accept such an offer. You 
cant forestall the government anyway.
It is impossible to foretell when the 
selection of a location will 'be made and 
the plant removed. The government 
moves slowly in such matters. The 
committee that has the matter in charge 
will likely visit Pittsburg, however, be
fore the choice is made.
Prof. Brashear and Director Hamer
schlag accompanied the advisory board 
in the inspection of the plant as repre
sentatives of the Carnegie Institute.
PPPPPPPuPPPPPPP
GLEE CLUB HOLDS MEETING.
Last Sunday afternoon the Glee 
Club held their first practice and busi
ness meeting. Mr. Louis Frank of the 
night school^ was elected manager and 
hopes to give a concert as soon as it 
can be arranged. A number of new and 
catchy songs have been obtained by the 
Club and will be sung by them this 
winter.
BATES WINS CROSS COUNTRY 
RUN.
The first of the fall series of cross 
country runs was held last Friday over 
the Schenley Park course. Although a 
high wind interfered with records, the 
men gave a good account of themselves 
and finished in fast time. Wylie io, 
who comes to Tech with a reputation as 
a fast track man, lived up to it and 
pushed Bates, the 08 star, to the limit. 
Wylie led the bunch all the way around 
the course until the last fifty yards when 
Bates by a magnificent spurt won out. 
The time was 8 minutes 4 3-5 seconds.
All of the men showed up in good 
form and finished in the following or
der: First, W. C. Bates; second, F. H. 
Wylie; third, Wilby Hudson; fourth, 
C. Reed; fifth, F. L. Koethen; sixth, V. 
Rigaumont; seventh, R. D. Street; 
eighth, S. M. Siesel; ninth, W. W. 
Slocum; tenth, H. S. Gerrard; eleventh, 
O. Bieler. The next run will be held 
Friday, November 8.
---------o---------
FOOT-BALL GAMES THIS WEEK.
Nov. 2Navy vs. W. Va. U.
Yale \s. W. & J.
Cornell vs. W. U. P., at Ithaca.
Tech vs. Mt. Union.
---------o---------
ORCHESTRA.
Prospects for a representative orches
tra this year are good if the students 
will make strenuous effort to resurrect 
this defunct organization. No less than 
forty members of the student body play 
instruments of some kind that would 
materially aid; and if they can be in
duced to lend assistance to this most im
portant adjunct to our musical organiza
tion, Tech should own an orchestra this 
year worthy of the institution. Every 
man who can play an instrument is re
quested to hand his name to Secretary 
Field. The following men have al
ready signed:
Day StudentsA. W. Hume, W. H. 
Cassidy, A. H. Meyer, George C. Davis, 
Harry Barton, E. L. Eastman, George 
Hess, F. B. Jamieson, piano; W. H. 
Shaffer, cello; W. R. Cummings, cornet 
(solo) ; B. H. Ulrich, trombone (V) ;
G. T. Narrance, violin; H. A. Warne, 
violin; Guy Huffman, flute; R. M. 
Tyler, cornet; Aug. J. Schmitt, piano.
Night StudentsH. W. Gottfried, 
Ressler, M. S. James, J. B. Stanier, 
piano.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN9
OOOOOOOOC- C8C8C83GC03CK8C8C88C8C8C838382OC8C8CK8C8CK8C8CK8C8!8^
I PERTINENT AND IMPERTINENT |
Frank Mosier, ex- 08, is in the real 
estate business at Weleetka, Indian Ter
ritory.
Russell Splane, ex-o8, is employed at 
the P. & L. E. R. R- shops at Ashta
bula Harbor, Ohio.
Charles Reisfar, ex-o8, is still in the 
Nevada gold fields.
Red Dushane is traveling for the 
Westinghouse Company.
Frank Miller, ex-08, is contemplating 
a trip to Europe to study architecture.
Rod Chester, ex-o8, holds the position 
of head gauger at the Carnegie mills- in 
Homestead.
Ward Kable, ex-08, is managing his 
father's tailoring establishment in East 
Liberty.
Bud Overend, ex-o8, is managing a 
dry goods business in Homewood.
The night school of apprentices open
ed last Monday with an entering class 
of 125.
The night school of Journeymen 
opened on Tuesday evening with a 
large entering class.
There are 1.961 students in the Car
negie Technical Schools.
Gus Kann, ex-08, is employed as city 
salesman by one of the prominent local 
light compnies. Light work.
Automobile riding bids fair to rival 
foot-ball as a Tech school sport.
Cornell and Yale will both play Tech 
this winter in hockey, according to re
port.
Motto: If you want anything to
morrow send in your requisition a year 
ago.Prof. Trinks.
Our engineer, Mr. McKensey, has 
passed a satisfactory examination and 
has obtained a steam engineers license.
Mr. Louis G. Huntley has resigned his 
position as circulation manager, owing 
to press of important business. -
Schumacher, of Woodsfield and Co
lumbus (sometimes), has a sentimental 
curio in the shape of a hairpin.
'
Walker and Frampton showed up 
finely in Saturdays game. Many new 
men from the night school have joined 
the squad.
Silvernail has been elected captain of 
the scrubs.
Prof. Willett is trying to have the 
Carnegie Library place copies of Pooles 
Index to Periodical Literature and the 
Cumulative Index in the Reference 
Room.
Mr. Andrew Carnegie arrived in New 
York last week on the steamer Baltic 
from Southampton. It is hoped the 
Laird will make his long-promised visit 
to the schools this fall.
---------o---------
The department of Electricity has re
ceived a 3 k. w. compound wound, D. 
C. generator from the Allis-Chalmers 
Co.* * *
Experiments with the Oscillograph
will be made next week.
* * *
The Mechanical Department has been 
invited to inspect the works of the Iron 
City Boiler Works next Saturday. Prof. 
Follows will accompany the men.
* * *
VolumeI
The following things have been taken 
from the Mechanical Laboratory and 
shall be returned at once:
12" micrometer,
1 speed indicator.
(Signed) Prof. Trinks.* * *
Men who wish to try for the 1912 
football team kindly report at 2 p. m. 
on Saturday on school grounds.* * *
A cigarettist: One who is late every 
morning and fresh every evening. 
Philistine.
JOHN WANAMAKER
New York Merchant Tailoring
Every cent you pay goes for clothing 
excellence. It is part of that system to 
have the best help that can be hired, the 
most skill, the most style and to charge 
nothing extra for it.
Needn't charge extrafall styles are 
ripebiggest values goingand all the 
style and fit
HeosanIose Sdet1wopD
Are you in doubt as to the precise 
length and shape the Overcoat should 
be? You can see it hereREADY TO 
PUT ON.
H I iHlyylfm F TS
Sixth Ave. and Smithfield St.
The Physics department has received 
a large Ruhmkorff induction coil to be 
used in connection with experiments 
on light, more especially with the Roeutgen Ray. The coil will give a spark 
70 cm in length.* * *
The Physics department has a very 
ingenious device to demonstrate the law 
of falling bodies.* * *
Director Hamerschlag was at the 
Jamestown Exhibition last week.
*3714 FORBES ST.AKLANQ 
PITTSBURG.
I WHITE OVERALLS
NNNNNNNborNNNNNN
TECH STUDENT
BEST UNDERWEAR
VALUES HERE

---------------------------------------------------

10THE TARTAN
^533 Fraternity Pins, Class Pins, Badges, Prize Cups, Fine Tools
HEEREN BROS. & CO. MANQFACTUSINQ JEWELERS and SILVERSMITHS,
---------HEEREN BUILDING, PENN AVE. & 8TH ST.---------
We are the Makers of the Carnegie Tech. School Pins
Hydraulic Engineering at the Univer
sity of WisconsinAbstract of a 
Paper Read Before the West
ern Society of Engineers, 
Chicago, Sept. 4.
By Daniel W. Mead, M. Am. Soc. C. E.
The last twenty years has witnessed 
a decided increase in the relative im
portance of the various problems of 
hydraulic engineering. The develop
ment of electrical generation and 
transmission has rendered many of 
the potential water powers of the 
country of importance, and made it 
possible to develop and transmit to 
centers of population and manufac
turing, hydraulic energy which pre
vious to this generation has been of 
little practical value on account of 
the distance of such powers from a 
profitable market. The design and 
construction of such works has be
come an important feature among 
modern engineering works.
Prior to 1904 the writer had been 
engaged for twenty years in active 
practice in civil engineering, much of 
the time in hydraulic work. He had 
given no particular attention to the 
question of technical education, but 
had decided views as to the desirabil
ity of a considerable change in such 
education as applied to the line of 
work in which he was engaged. In 
that year he accepted the chair in 
hydraulic and sanitary engineering in 
the University of Wisconsin, with 
the privilege of continuing his pro
fessional practice. It was understood 
that he should develop the department 
of hydralic engineering on the lines of 
his personal ideas, and that such de
velopment should be carried to the 
extent that the importance of the de
partment of the demand for such de
velopment at the university would 
warrant. It was also understood that 
opportunities would be afforded fr re
search work along hydraulic lines, the 
importance and necessity of which 
the writer appreciated from his own 
studies, experience and investigations.
Three years have elapsed since the
writer began his work at the Univer
sity of Wisconsin. Many of his early 
ideas have been modified by his ex
perience in the educational field. 
He began this work with a fairly clear 
appreciation of the difficulties that 
confronted him. He recognized the 
possible errors to which an instructor 
who came, without previous experi
ence, from a field of practice into 
educational lines would be liable, that 
such an instructor was liable to over
estimate the real educational value of 
certain lines of information which 
might seem from his practical ex
perience of importance, and to un
derestimate the real educational value 
of much that was taught in technical 
institutions which might seem to him 
of little practical value or importance 
to the professional engineer. He be
lieved also that a theoretical educa
tion, having no direct bearing on the 
practical problems of the engineer, 
while it might be of value in an educa
tional way, would better be replaced 
by technical studies which had a di
rect or indirect relation to the actual 
problems of the engineer, and which 
could be made of equal importance 
from the purely educational view.
Innovations have been introduced 
slowly and only after careful consid
eration and discussion with the dean 
and with other members of the en
gineering faculty teaching these sub
jects dependent directly or indirectly 
on the subject of hydraulics. Both 
the instructional method of present
ing most of the subjects taught and 
the subjects ithemselves have been 
changed considerably from the curri
culum ordinarily offered by technical 
schools. Recognizing the possibili
ties of serious errors resulting from 
a false point of view, and the value 
of establishing correct principles as 
a foundation for the technical educa
tion of the young engineer, the writer 
desires to call the attention of both 
practicing engineers and of those en
gaged in instructional work in hy
draulic subjects, to the changes made 
and the methods pursued in this de
partment in the University of Wis
consin.
No independent department of hy
draulic engineering existed at the 
University prior to the writers ap
pointment. The subjects taught were 
divided among various departments. 
Theoretical hydraulics was taught by 
the Department of Mechanics as a 
part of the course in theoretical me
chanics; water supply, sewerage and 
sewage disposal were taught by a 
member of the faculty, who also taught 
structural engineering. Hydraulic 
machinery included only a theoretical 
discussion of the hydraulic turbine 
and the laws of flow through its guide 
passages and buckets; hydraulic labo
ratory work was taught in connection 
with work in the steam laboratory. 
These subjects were differentiated 
and brought into the Department of 
Hydraulic and Sanitary Engineering.
Theoretical Hydraulics, as formerly 
taught in the University of Wisconsin, 
and (as far as the writer is informed) 
in all other technical institutions, 
consisted solely of a theoretical dis
cussion of hydraulic principles, prac
tically separate and distinct from any 
demonstration in the laboratory or 
other illustrative work. The labora
tory work was a thing apart, and was 
not carried on as a part of the theo
retical course. It has, indeed, been 
found impossible at the university to 
carry on the laboratory work in di
rect connection with the work of the 
theoretical course. This is largely due 
to the fact that every laboratory is 
limited both in size and equipment; 
that the time available for laboratory 
work is also limited; and that it is 
therefore impossible for the students 
each to perform the experiments at 
the same time they are studying the 
text.
This theoretical work given en
tirely or partially apart from any il
lustrative experimental or laboratory 
work has been very unsatisfactory in 
its results. Students do not, as a rule, 
become interested in the subjects 
which they with difficulty ifhderstand,

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN11
GET THE BEST
results obtainable from the combination of Capital and Experience by taking whatever banking bus' Dess you may have to the
OAKLAND SAVINGS AND TRUST CO.
$200,000.00 CAPITAL $150,000.00 SURPLUS AND UNDIVIDED PROFITS
and which are illustrated only by such fundamental knowledge of many of cipally from the standopint of the 
cuts and pictures as can be made and the principles that are included under designer, or the man who is expected 
reproduced in the text-book. The stu- the title of hydrology. This, in its to undertake the construction of this 
dents usually fail to grasp the full broadest sense, treats of the proper- class of machinery. The theory of 
meaning of the theory or to appreciate ties, laws and phenomena of water; the machine and the theoretical effect 
its application, and to a large per- of its physical, chemical, and physio- of modification in form and design are 
centage the course seemed of little logical relations; of its distribution discussed, and the practical results 
direct value, except fundamentally, and occurrence over the earths sur- of its actual use are not considered, 
or until they enter into active prac- face and within the geological strata; Of the students who pass through our 
tice and begin to realize from their and of its sanitary, agricultural and educational institutions a very small 
own actual experience the meaning commercial relations. In presenting percentage give their time and attenand bearing of the subject. this subject to engineering students tion to the manufacture of hydraulic
No subject can be so thoroughly such relations as bear more specific- machinery. Almost all of them, howwell taught that it will become fully ally on the work of the engineer are ever, wrill use machinery of this kind 
the mental property of the student discussed and considered. to a greater or less extent, and are
until it has had the opportunity of A study of this subject should pre- therefore interested in its selection, 
putting it into active use in his prac- cede all advanced work in hydraulic installation, operation and maintetice in many places and at many engineering. At present it is re- nance. It is from this standpoint that 
times. He then begins to fully realize eration of the subject of water sup- an attempt is made to consider the 
the meaning and importance of a sub- quired only o' the students in civil subject at the University of Wisconject from his own practical experi- engineering and prior to their consid- cin.
ence. It has, however, appeared to ply, drainage, irrigation, and of sew- The engineer who is called upon 
the writer that it would be possible erage and sewage disposal. The stu- to select and install this class of mato illustrate and demonstrate the dents in mechanical and electrical en- chinery for his client or employer is 
ideas, conceptions and theories of hy- gineering who are required to take necessarily and particularly interdraulics, which it is desired to convey up the course in water power, are not ested in the details of construction 
to the student by class-room experi- required to take hydrology as a pre- so far as they will affect the efficiency 
ments, in such a way that he could requisite to the water-power study, and operation of the machine. He 
better appreciate the meaning and in- Jn consequence, those elements of needs specific information concerning 
tent of these theories and concep- this subject which bear more specific- the general features of all machines 
tions, and be more ready and able ally on the subject of water power with which he must be necessarily 
to apply them correctly to his prac- are discussed in the water power acquainted in order to intelligently 
tical work when such work comes to class. It is the writers belief, how- and satisfactorily accomplish his purhand. The theory and the facts in ever, that hydrology should be a re- pose. It is this conception of hydraulthe case will be seen to accord, and quired subject for all engineering stu- ic machinery which the writer is enhe will receive not only a mental but dents, just as much as the subject of deavoring to embody in the course in 
an optical demonstration. His inter- theoretical hydraulics. The other hydraulic machinery. It must not be 
est will be aroused, and that which subjects included at the present time understood that an attempt is being 
was before a dry and uninteresting in the department of hydraulic and made to introduce a large amount of 
subject will become attractive. The sanitary engineering are, public water disconnected information which, while 
result, it is believed, will be of im- supply, drainage, sewerage and irri- important to the practicing engineer, 
portance not only in the teaching of gation (considered as a single sub- does not constitute the foundation for 
the fundamental principles of hy- ject), water power, hydraulic machin- a proper technical education. An atdraulics, but also in the laboratory ery, and rivers and canals. In all of tempt is made to impart the neceswork which will follow. these subjects an attempt is made not sary theoretical basis which will alThere has been introduced into the only to develop the theory, but also low of correct deduction in the sub
curriculum the subject of hydrology, to show the application. ject considered, and to furnish the
not hitherto taught in the University Outside of the subject of theoreti- fundamental basis on which the prinof Wisconsin, or (as far as the writer cal hydraulics, perhaps the greatest ciple of the selection of machinrey 
knows) at any other institution. The departure that has been made from must depend. Also to develop those 
most prolific source of failure in hy- past practice among technical schools principles in machine construction , 
draulic installation hydraulic prob- is in the instruction on the subject of it is not only important, but essential, 
lems, or schemes in which hydraulic hydraulic machinery. Text books on for every practicing engineer to know 
problems are involved, is the lack of hydraulic machinery are written prin- in order that his work shall be done

---------------------------------------------------

12THE TARTAN
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON,
CUSTOM FITTING SHOES
S5.00 $4.00 S3.50
PENN AND FRANKSTOWN AVENUES 
East End
blishedW lkyBbSdst
nhhW Ohsf 
nhhW Tdsebyd
Established 1893 Both Phones
to advantage. In all these subjects 
an attmept is also made to assure a 
knowledge of the literature of the 
subject so as to make it fully avail
able for future study and research, to 
impress the necessity of careful and 
detailed study of each particular prob
lem by itself, and to induce a recogni
tion of the theoretical principles which 
must underlie the subject and which 
are necessary for its proper consid
eration and for its successful treat
ment.
The hydraulic research work has 
been under the immediate charge of 
Mr. C. B. Stev/art. The theoretical
hydraulics and instructional labora
tory work hes been in the immediate 
charge of Prof. G. J. Davis, Jr., and 
Mr. L. F. Harza. The advanced 
laboratory and thesis work is super
vised by Prof. Davis and the writer.
---------o----------
1910.
J. H. Taxis, Editor. .
R. W. E. Moore is seriously ill with
pneumonia in Columbia Hospital, Wilkinsburg. President Smith has appoint
ed a committee to look after his needs.* * *
Price Kenton, ex-og, is a member of 
1910 Night Electricals. He holds a 
prominent position with the Pittsburg 
Portable Radiator Co.* * *
* The rehearsals of the Mandolin Club 
will be resumed shortly, and it is hoped 
a large number of applicants for ad
mission will be on hand. The club needs
players and it is the duty of every stu
dent that plays, either mandolin or 
guitar, to come out and help bring the 
club to an efficient basis. Director 
Scheidlemeir will have charge again 
this year and if he has material to 
wrork upon a good club will result. He 
has composed several pieces especially 
for Tech. and work on these will start 
at once.* * *
Robert Parsons has resigned as man
ager of the combined musical clubs, on 
account of pressure of studies.
The loss of Mr. Parsons as manager 
is felt by every member, for he was a 
faithful and hard worker for the good 
of the club, having sacrificed personal 
pleasures and studies to the demands of 
his position.
The concerts arranged by Mr. Par
sons the past two years were successful 
from every standpoint, and it is re
gretted that he cannot continue the good 
work.
His successor has not been chosen 
but at the next meeting a new manager 
will be elected.* * *
The opening address of each instruc
tor to the class starts, We will need a
reference book, etc. Echoes from the
boys, will it ever end?------o------
Hugie Westbrook plunged on the 
Electrical-Civil game last Friday.* * *
Tingley 08 is watchman at the M. M. 
C. S. on Sundays. Fine.
NOTICE !
There will be a meeting of the First 
Year^Siight students, Wednesday even
ing after school hours, October 30th, 
in the general assembly room.
Officers for the year will be elected.
It is the desire of the Chairman to 
have all the students attend this meet
ing, as it is of importance to every 
one.
This meeting should be of interest to 
all students, taking pride in their school 
and who wish to have the Class of 1912 
excel all others.
Be sure to come. Dont put it off.
By Order of the Chairman.
------o---------
The Sigma Tau fraternity have taken 
up quarters on Woodlawn avenue.
* * *
Boom the Senior Dramatics.
* * *
Let a=i; let b1 ; then a=b. Multi
ply both sides by a; a2=ab. Subtract 
6- from both sides ; a2b2=ab62. 
Factoring, (a+b) (ab)=b (ab). 
The factor (ab) is common to both 
sides, -: a+bb, or 1 + 1=1.Ex.
? ? ?
Schumacher 08 was severely jostled 
at the Electrical-Civil football game 
last Saturday in the attempt of Half
back Colmery to skirt the Civils right 
end. Shoo was so painfully injured 
that the services of an expert masseur 
were required. Monsieur Sparrou 
Beekou was sent for and with his 
dexterity coupled with a lotion called 
Whitimores Tan Shoe Polish, Shoos 
limb took a decided turn for the better. 
The patient, however, refused to permit 
the masseur to put on the finishing 
touches which was to be done with a 
shoe brush.* * *
A meeting of the Glee Club will be 
held this week. A new manager will 
be elected, owing to the resignation of 
Bob Parsons.
* * if
The Crucible Club will hold a meet
ing next Friday evening.* * *
Peel Pfeil has been up state on 
a hunting trip during the past week.
* * *
The Metallurgical Seniors visited the 
Eliza furnaces last Thursday afternoon. 
John D. had to have a furnace all to 
himself.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN13
PLEBES BEGIN WELL.
The Plebes played the fast Sewickley 
High School team last Saturday at Se
wickley and succeeded in bringing home 
a victory. The game was hotly contest
ed and was anybodys game until the 
final whistle blew. Many of the men 
who are members of the regulars ac
companied the team and gave a good 
account of themselves in the game. 
Crumley played the star game and 
Harter was not far behind.
The line-up :
Pl.EP.ES5Sewickley H. S.0.
Agnew .............L. E........
Barrett .............L. T............ Tallent
Meade .............L. G....
Harter ..................C..................... Kelley
Harsmith..R. G......... .. . Allewelt
Crawford .. ....R. T....
Hatcher ............R. E.............. Brush
Challinor ...... .Q. B....Cunningham
Crumley...........L. H......... ..Whitlock
Callman .......... .R. H........ McPherson
Boots ...............F. B........ Jackson
Touchdown-Crumley.Referee 
Mould. UmpireCritchlow. Time of 
halves20 minutes.
---------o---------
SENIOR DRAMATICS.
Suggestions have been offered for 
some time past with regard to the 
means best fitted for the accumulation 
of a Senior Class fund, to be used in 
establishing a memorial, of some worth} 
sort, to the class of 1908 upon gradua
tion. The Tartan is of the opinior 
that the problem could be solved 
through the agency of a senior play ; and 
a very clever little travesty on Shake
speare has already been written by a 
member of the class. Those, who have 
read the play believe it could be sue 
cessfally staged and a tidy sum realized 
by its production. Every member of the 
executive department of the schools is 
ready to aid in the movement. Is every 
member of the class?
The White Friars are still alive.------o------
LEHIGH TO COME TO PITTS
BURG.
Manager Thomson of the Football 
Association has finally closed with Le
high management and a Thanksgiviifg 
day game on the oval is assured. Spirit 
has been running rife at Tech since the 
brilliant showing made by the Varsity
against the strong W. U. P. eleven and 
this announcement will be hailed with 
joy by the student body. Lehigh has al
ways been recognized as one of the 
staunchest supporters of clean athletics 
and as the best of feeling exsists be
tween the institutions there is no rea
son why the Bethlehemite s should not 
be our natural rivals. They have a strong 
team this year and should make a 
worthy opponent for our fast improving 
aggregation.
Pittsburg has a large number of Le
high grads, and it is expected that they, 
and the regular Pittsburg football en
thusiasts, together with the Tech sup
porters will furnish a large attendance. 
In as much as no admission can be 
charged at the oval, other measures will 
be adopted to defray the large expense 
that will be incurred in bringing Lehigh 
to this city. We cannot announce at 
this time just what action will be taken, 
yet, we know that every Tech man will 
help out.
------o------
A Tech night at the Nixon theater 
has been suggested for Thanksgiving 
eve. Action must be taken at once if it 
is to materialize, for seats will be at a 
premium that evening. Get together 
fellows!
A large delegation is expected to ac
company the team on the Washington 
trip.
The forward pass worked beautifully 
last Saturday.
Walker played a star game at 
Waynesburg. He is a new man from 
the Sign Painting Department.
------o------
SUBJECTS FOR JUNIOR ESSAYS.
Why They Shifted Willies Grave to 
Build a Sewer. Swearingen (Civil).
Comparative Statistics of the Panama 
and Hamburg Canals.
Silvernail (Civil).
The Power Hack Saw Adapted to 
Cutting Boarding House Steak.
Todd (Electrical).
How to Take Care* of an Automobile.
Phillips (Mech.).
An Analysis of Finsers Plug To
bacco. Beeken (Chemical).
We hope to give other subjects as 
soon as the Juniors decide on the sub
ject on which the world needs enlighten
ing the most.
B. W. SMITH
CUT FLOWERS
PICTURES AND FRAMING 
WALL PAPER
114 Atwocd St. Bet. 5th and Forbes
Special rates to students
Murdoch-Kerr Co.
Printers and Publishers
Ample Facilities 
Large Experience 
Satisfactory Service 
STRAWBERRY & CHERRY WAYS
HALLOWEEN REQUISITES
Nuts! Nuts! Figs, Cake, Pumpkin 
Pies, Pumpkin Heads, Ghosts, 
Witches, Devils ; Everything 
FOR A JOLLY HALLOWEEN
HALLERS
3618 Forbes Ave. Iroquois Block.
R. W. Medick
OAKLAND
MEAT MARKET
CHOICE HOME DRESSED 
MEATS & POULTRY
8.0k ySHhLv vf
Both Phones.
Flowers
The largest stock on hand at all 
times is the one from which to 
select.
The prices are reasonable and 
consistent with the best quality.
A. W. SMITH
345 SIXTH AVENUE 
PITTSBURG, PA.

---------------------------------------------------

14THE TARTAN
Bell 117-R Schenley Open Evenings
DR. E. S. McNEVIN
DENTIST
CHARLES BUILDING 
N. E. Cor. Forbes and Craig Sts. 
Pittsburg, Pa.
Julian, Kennedy
Engineer pitfsbur<|
S. DIESCHER & SONS
CONSULTING ENGINEERS
Iron & Steel Works, Rolling Mills, 
Manufacturing Plants and En
gineering Structures
Farmers Bank Bldg. Pittsburg, Pa.
TCargcoc. dnggncc.gng yu.
Engineers and Contractors 
705-707 WABASH BUILDING 
Pittsburg, Pa.
Bell Phone 1057 Court
GOOD THINGS TO EAT
AT THE PURE FOOD STORES OF
Geo. K. Stevenson & Co.
Sixth Avenue Highland and Center
Down Town East End
Both Phones 2097
Tac ddwa.d d. sgcCk yu.
SELECT 
CREAMERY PRODUCTS 
MILK CREAM 
and ICE CREAM
Cor Forbes and Stevenson Streets 
PITTSBURG, PA.
FOR EXPERTS
Engineers, Architects, Draughts
menExperts or Students . . .
Should get acquainted with the resources of supply for all Drawing and Artists Materials offered by this houseKURTZ, LANGBEIN & SWARTZ,
6o6 Wood St., 6th Ave.
TECH17. WAYNESBURGo.
Last Saturday the Varsity met the 
strong Waynesburg College team at 
Waynesburg and defeated them han
dily by the score of 17o. It is the 
first time in years that the Waynesburgers have tasted defeat upon their own 
gridiron and that the score was not 
larger is due to the fact that some little 
prejudice was shown perhaps, by one of 
their officials, who refused to let a score 
be counted that was made entirely with
in the letter of the rule. The series of 
unpleasant incidents finally culminated 
in a free-for-all fight at the close of the 
game, just after Frampton had gone 
for the last touchdown, the spectators 
refusing to allow' Brown to try for a 
goal.
' THE GAME IN DETAIL.
At 2 oclock Umpire Dr. Simpson 
called Captains Henderson and Lippincott to the center of the field and flip
ped the coin. Lippincott won the toss 
and chose to defend the east goal. Tech 
kicked off to Waynesburgs 10-yard line. 
Lippincott returned 10 yards, downed 
by Patterson. Lippincott tried Techs 
right side, no gain. W'aynesburg forced 
to kick. Mosca kicks to Techs 45-yard 
line Frampton makes 2 yards through 
right guard. Urling makes 20 yards 
around right end. Dowling goes for 5 
yards around left wing. Henderson 10 
yards around right end. Dowling 3. 
Urling goes over for first touchdown. 
Hittner hurt. Brown kicks goal. Score: 
Tech 6, Waynesburg o. Waynesburg 
kicked off to Techs 15-yard line. Hen
derson runs ball back 20 yards. Hen
derson makes 10 yards around left 
wing. Urling and Wink and Framp
ton make 12 yards. Tech penalized 15 
yards for hurdling. Tech loses ball. 
Mosca makes 5 yards through line, 
Barb makes 2 yards around left end. 
Patterson hurt. Tech penalized off 
side. Waynesburg kicks. Dowling re
ceives ball and returns 15 yards. Hitt
ner hurt. Dowling 7 vards, Urling 35 
yards. Henderson* 5 yards, Frampton
5 yards. Dowling fumbles, Hittner re
covers same and runs for 45 yards. Ur
ling loses 5 yards. Urling gains 7. 
Tech loses ball on penalty. Waynesburg 
kicks. Wink receives on 25-yard line. 
Urling gains 1 yard, a forward pass 
loses 15 yards. Tech kicks. Waynes
burg ball on own 15-yard line. Mosca 
10 yards, Lippincott 5 yards, Mosca 7 
yards. Parkinson hurt. Lippincott gains
4 yards. Time called. Score: Tech 6, 
Waynesburg o.
SECOND HALF.
Waynesburg kicks off. Off side and 
penalized 10 yards. Kick to Techs 15- 
yard line, Henderson returns to 30-yard 
line. Frampton and Urling net 7 
yards. Coldren hits left end for 22 
yards. Urling loses 5 yards. Scotty 
makes 15 yards on forward pass. Hendy 
goes for seven yards. Coldren loses 5 
yards. Scotty makes 20 yards forward 
pass. Ball given to Waynesburg on
charge of illegal pass. Waynesburg
fails to gain their ten yards forced to 
kick. Tech ball on Waynesburg 45- 
yard line. Frampton goes for 12 yards, 
Urling gains three. Hendy 7. Hendy 
makes 5 yards on forward pass. Wink 
makes six yards on forward pass.
Hendy goes over for touchdown. Brown 
kicks goal. Score: Tech 12, Waynes
burg 0.
Waynesburg kicked off to Techs 5- 
yard line. Frampton returned 35 yards. 
Frampton goes through line for 5 yards. 
Hendy fumbles. Waynesburg _ ball. 
Wink throws Barbe for loss. Waynes
burg kicks. Coldren receives and re
turns 15 yards. Wink, Urling, Framp
ton make first down by a series of 
cleverly executed forward passes and 
outside kicks. Tech goes down field 
and sends Frampton over for touch
down. Time called.
Clutter ..............L. E ..................Patterson
Rinehart...............L T .........................Ramp
Acklin ................LG ...................Brown
Andrews ............C.........................Robinson
Ray ....................R. G .....................Walker
C. Parkinson ...R. T ......................Hatch
Zahniser ...........R F .............Henderson
Fry ......................Q. B........................Hittner
Barbe .R. H ....... .Dowling
Lippincott ........L. H .......................Urling
Mosca ..............F. B .................Frampton
SubstitutionsRoss for Lippincott, 
Coldren for Hittner, Hittner for Pat
terson. Referee-Hawkins. Umpire 
Simpson. LinesmanHook, Thomson. 
TimekeepersSangstrom and Kann. 
Touchdowns  Henderson, Urling, 
Frampton. Goals from touchdowns 
Brown 2. Time of halves20 minutes.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
IQ11 s assistance. ign proceeded to 
make themselves at home and in reply 
to the murmured objections of the 
kindergarten stood up and gave their 
class yell. By this time the meeting 
was more or less confused and seeing 
their confusion the 1911 delegation with
drew after giving a rocket yell and an
other class yell.
1 he door was locked behind them, 
which action was interpreted as a chal
lenge to continue their disturbance. A 
key was procured and the door opened 
and suddenly the whole lecture room 
was plunged in darkness. This was too 
much for the children and they ad
journed sine die without having ac
complished anything.
--------o---------
1911.
Mr. Doyle 011 contracts: When a 
man refuses to sell land to build a state 
capitol on, on account of the character 
of his neighbors-----
Loud applause from Pringle, B-2.------o------
Tartan Plaid Tech Pennants, $1.50.
See Bates, Mech., 08.
UNPRECEDENTED OCCURRENCE
nrecl fotilertcluot ut ?oTtwiloDt
15
Fall Clothes
READY TO WEAR
Suits & Overcoats
Exclusive patterns which you 
wont find elsewhere. Prices from 
$20.00 to $35.00.
Hastings & Voigt
Open Evenings 
6121 PENN AVE. EAST END
All good students are photographed by 
HENRY
For Class and Fraternity Groups
WE SAVYou cant get them as good 
at any price. Students invited to in
spect our work.
O. C. HENRY
Studio, 321 Fifth Ave. - Pittsburg, Pa.
(Our prices no higher than you pay for inferior 
work.)
1911.
A. F. Stamm, Editor.
The first regular class meeting of 11 
was held on the evening of Friday, Octomber 18. There was but little business 
save the nomination and election of of
ficers. After a spirited session the fol
lowing were elected:
President, A. F. Stamm; vice presi
dent, G. C. Hess; treasurer, Fred Wil
liam; secretary, C. B. Cline; marshal, 
Mr. Pringle; historian, Mr. Ela.
Section B-2 may be proud of the num
ber of representatives it has in the 
executive force of the class. Messrs. 
Stamm, Hess and William are all in 
section B-2, as is Mr. Johnson who was 
the only other candidate for president 
and he gave the winner a close run.
The meeting was called '.o order by 
Mr. Hess, the secretary of last year, 
and he called Mr. Cline to fill the chair 
in the absence of President Harley and 
Vice President Emery.
The customary speeches were called 
for and delivered but nothing brilliant 
in the way of oratory was rendered.
Mr. Stamm, the successful candidate 
for president was ill and consequently 
unable to attend the meeting. The next 
meeting of the class will be held on 
Wednesday evening, November 6. As 
business of importance is scheduled to 
come up a large attendance is desired.
------o------
ATHLETICS IN 1911.
Mr. Harry McCulley, well known 
wrestler and basketball player has been 
appointed chairman of the Athletic 
Committee and all matters pertaining to 
the arrangement of any interclass con
tests in which 1911 participates must be 
referred to him. A challenge is to be 
issued to 1910 and also to 1912 for a 
football game to take place on the school 
grounds or Schenley- oval.
---------o---------
1912 HAS A CLASb MEETING.
The kindergarten, better known asthe class of 1912, held a class meeting 
last Wednesday evening for the purpose 
of organizing and electing officers.
They had previously asked some of 
their brethren of 1911 to come out to 
the meeting to assist them. In the 
language of the invitation they were to 
put them on the right track.
When the time for the meeting came 
around 1912 forgot about having asked
An Unexplained and Unexplainable Sit
uation Unparalleled in the History 
of the City.
(Special Telegram to the Tartan.) 
Youngstown, O., Oct. 26, 1907.Wil
liam W. Wallace did not reach here
until late this afternoon.------o-------
Mr. Denton explaining some electrical 
phenomena
Student: Does that vary directly as 
Wednesday evenings.
Mr. Denton: What has Wednesday 
evenings got to do with it?------o-------
ACCUMULATOR CARS.
On the German state railways accu
mulator cars have been running since 
last February on three railway lines. 
The new cars run four or six times a 
day over a distance of about eight 
miles. The cars are three-axle cars 
built especially for this purpose. The 
batteries consist of 180 cells of 200 
ampere-hours capacity. A car bat
tery weights about 10 tons and yields 
685 kilowatt-hours. The car complete 
weighs 38 tons.
JAMIESON SISTERS'
PHOTOGRAPHS x
ARE WELL KNOWN BY PROMINENT 
PITTSBURGHERS 
Wallace Blk. Center & Highland Aves.
Get in Line Fellow ! Your Next !
When you want the services of a first class 
barber, why dont you go where the rest of the 
Tech men go, and youll never feel lonely. All 
the latest appbanceseverything sanitary.
THE TECH BARBER SHOP
Corner Craig and Forbes Street 
H F. VAN CUREN, Prop.
Our Motto* Dont WorrySmile ! 
Stationery Engraving Embossing
GEO. L. KOPP  CO,
DRAWING MATERIAL, SURVEYING 
INSTRUMENTS 
7C4 Smithfield St. . . . Pittsburg, Pa.
GET YOUR 
Imported or Domestic Cigars, To
baccos and all kinds Smokers 
Articles at
I. CAMILL, 3705 Fifth Ave.
P. & A. Phone 121 Pittsburg, Pa.

---------------------------------------------------

16THE TARTAN
Silvernail is nursing a broken nose. 
He is cheerful as he realizes that it 
might be worse.* * *
Stripes walks down the corridor
First Plebe: Can that fellow put the
shot?
Second Plebe: He can't throw it over 
his own feet.
Third Plebe: If he could, he would 
break the record.* * *
There is some talk of organizing a 
Junior football team to play the Plebes.? # #
Most of Pioneer Tech. Club cut Fri
day to celebrate Benny Watrous birth
day. We understand they are contem
plating a change in their constitution
that will make a man ineligible for 
membership unless his birthday comes 
during the school term.* * *
Scotty was so elated at the victory 
that he threw his hat into the pond 
and came home bare headed.* # *
The man who first called the TechMont Club the Dixmont is unknown. If 
he is as discreet as he is witty, he will 
stay unknown.
$ JOSEPH HORNE CO. 
S WLGG RCLnylyfm vf g
g FOOT BALL GOODS *
^ Captains of elevens, and each member of an eleven are hereby *
O notified that all requisites for football can be purchased in *
O Hornes Athletic Division for very much less than usual prices 4.
'k charged in exclusive stores. V
Footballs....................$ .50 to $5.00 each. ^
Football Pants...........$ .50 to $4.00 pair. O
Football Jersies. . . .$1.50 to $2.00 each. $
Football Sweaters. .$1.00 to $6.00 each. g
Football Shoes.........$3-50 to $3.75 pair.
Head Harness.. . .. .$1.00 to $3.00 each.
X Shin Guards.............$ .50 to $1.25 pair.
* Nose Guards............$!-5o to $2.50 each.
* Shoulder Pads.......................$ .50 each.
^ Ankle Braces............$ .50 to $1.00 pair. B
^ Stockings..................$ .25 to $1.00 pair. e
^ Supporters................$ .25 to $ .50 pair. *
I 1THLARGIn this division we have all the pennants of the ^
0 colleges and schools of the country, selling them from xoc to ^
* $1.00 each. If a specially designed pennant is required we will O
4 make it to order. O
*0*0^0*G-.-0*0*o0*0*C*0*0*:0*0*0*0*0*0*0*0*0*0*0*0*0*m
The Junior Electricals have organized 
a football team. Dave Patterson has 
been elected captain. Games will be 
played with the Senior Electricals and 
other departments.
The students of Columbia University 
have organized a Republican club. The 
main purpose of the club will be to do 
district work for the party during the 
coming elections.
4<*04<*0*04<>*0*:*0*0*0*0*0*0*0*0*0*0*0*0*0*04'0*04<>*04<*0*04<*0*0*0*Cf0*0*0*0*
A HBIMERT 
I HATTER AND HABERDASHER"
3614 Forbes AvenueIroquois BlockOakland
I FALL UNDERWEARiWHlTLv HRGiL
I 50c, 75c, $1.00, $1.50 
$2.00 a garment
I WE ARE AGENTS FOR THE
I Famous Stuttgarter 
t Underwear
DENTS, PERRINS AND 
ADLER GLOVES 
$1.00, $1.25, $1.50, 
$2.00 A PAIR
AS GOOD AS THE
HOLEPROOF HOSE
Instead of 6 Pairs for $2.00 t 
we give you $
16 PAIRS FOR $2.00 I
