Football 
Tech vs. Lehigh 
1:00 P. M.
Tech Field, Saturday
King Albert 
Forbes Field 
3:30 P. M. Thursday
VOL. XIV. No. 4CHrtr (Jarlan
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA
LOOMIS BUCKS CASE LINE FOR FIRST TECH TOUCHDOWN.
OCTOBER 22. 1919.
Case is Humbled 16-0
Backfield Plows Through Brown and White 
Team for Two Touchdowns
FOUR SCHOOLS COUNCIL 
HOLDS FIRST MEETING
The first meeting- of the Four Schools Council was held on Thursday, October 10. President Battman was. in charge of the meeting. All the officers except the president, who was elected at the end of last year, were elected at this meeting. The results of the election were:
Vice President .............HaddeausRecorder...................... Miss PiperSecy and Treas...........Miss Stone ,
A committee was appointed to investigate and make plans for a holiday 011 Armistice Day, November 11. Another committee was appointed to decide on a program of mass cheering for the freshmen. This would bring all the plebes together once or twice a week to learn the school cheers and songs. This would be a decided advantage and would be noticeable at 
all the games.Yergey was unanimously elected cheer leader. It was also decided that white hats should be bought for the cheerleaders. The head cheerleaders 
hat is to have a C on it.The council decided to resume the custom of collecting ten cents from each student. The purpose of this is 
to obtain funds for the council.A letter was sent to Director of Safety Prichard thanking him for his cooperation at the parade of the stu
dents going to the W. and J. game.A letter was also sent to Dean Tar- bell asking his cooperation in the cleaning up of the campus and the removal of out-of-date posters and announcements.The question of printing a calendar was taken up. This calendar would be a small card distributed free to the students, containing the dates of the events in which the whole school takes part. This would give schedule of events for a couple of months ahead and would contain the date, time and place of games, school dances and important meetings.
SCHOLARSHIP CUP IS 
AWARDED BY FACULTY
The first meeting of the Inter-Fra
ternity Council was held in Director 
Motts office last Saturday morning 
at 10:30.
The main object of the meeting was 
to organize for the year. However, 
several items of importance were cated upon. The election of officers re
sulted in the following:
COMMERCIAL CLUB TO 
MEET FRIDAY
The first meeting of the Com
mercial Club will be held at 
11:30 a. m., Friday, October 24, 
in the .Commercial Club. Room. 
Election of officers will be herd 
and plans will be discussed for 
holding a smoker. ALL COM
MERCIALS are urged to at
tend this meeting and help start 
a big year.
President, M. A. Fair, Sigma Nu,
Vice Pres., C. B. Schmidt, Woodlawn Club
Sec.-Treas., R. I). Foxon, Theta Xi.
It was decided to revise the consti
tution in several places to correspond 
to the change in titles of Deans to 
Directors, etc. The question of Fra
ternity Politics was discussed at 
length.
In regards to the awarding of the 
Inter-Fraternity Scholarship Cup, it 
was decided to announce the results 
in that issue of the Tartan following 
the first meeting of the Council.
This cup is awarded by the Faculty 
of the Division of Science and Engin
eering each year to that Fraternity 
attaining the highest average grades 
in scholarship. The cup the first two 
years of award was held by Sigma 
Rho. Owing to war conditions the 
cup has not been awarded for the last 
two years. This year it will be award
ed to Sigma Alpha Epsilon, formerly 
Zeta Lambda Epsilon. The standing 
of the fraternities for the past year 
is as follows:
Zeta Lambda Epsilon.....................952
Lau Gamma Phi ..............................852
Sigma nu ...........-................'...........818
Relta Upsilon....................................785
Woodlawn Club .. ............................654
Theta Xi .............................................515
Sigma Rho...........................................485
Xi Sigma Upsilon (only three men 
in school).
NOTICE
On October 2nd a copy of g 
Intermediate Text Book of H 
Chemistry by Alexander Smith, j 
was left in the Office of the M 
Dean of Men. The owner is re- m 
quested to call for his property. j
A. W. TARBELL, | 
Dean of Men. 
ulIIQIIIIIIIiiillllllllllllllllllllllll'JIIIllliilllllllOilllillllltllllUilHllllllllllllIlilllllliiliillllOlllS
Team Shows
Playing much superior football 
than at any other time this season, 
the varsity won a hard fought victory 
over Case by score of 16-0. Tech 
Field was soggy in places but this 
was of little handicap,' as perfect foot
ball weather prevailed. One of the 
largest crowds ever jammed into the 
bowl was kept on edge all thru the 
game by spectacular runs and plays.
Case presented a heavy and fast 
backfield which kept our line on the 
wake all the time. Several times 
both lines held like a stone wall and 
on one occasion enabled Tech to score 
her first points of the game. Case 
held on its 5-yard line and was forced 
to punt from behind the goal. The 
ball hit the uprights and bounded 
back to the Maggie Murph building 
where Hale fell on it for a safety. 
This gave the varsity 2 points, and 
in this way the half ended.
In the third quarter things began to 
happen and the team seemed to be on 
their toes, fighting for every yard. 
Several times the ball was advanced 
by the backfield only to be lost on a 
fumble or intercepted forward pass. 
After Fletcher had received a punt 
and returned 15 yards, Loomis made 
eight yards thru tackle and P. Mar
shall made 12 yards on a wide end 
run. At this time the only real in
terference of the day was shown. 
Loomis then went thru centre for a 
touchdown. Fletcher kicked out and 
R. Marshall healed. Fletcher kicked 
goal.
At this point Coach Steffens ran in 
several of the second string men and 
several he had held out so as to give 
an advantage of weight in the line. 
After receiving the kick-off Fletcher, 
P. Marshall and Brunwasser carried 
the ball to the 8-yard line. Here Brun
ny bucked over for the last touch
down and Fletcher kicked goal.
For Case Hale and Metzger played 
well in the backfield while in their 
line both tackles showed up excep
tionally well.
Lineup:
Carnegie Tech. Case.
Wittmer...............L. E.................. Foster
Williams......L. T..........................Gettman
Roberts .......L. G................ Finkelstein
Roth.....................C.................... Edwards
Saylor.................R. G.... J. D. Wood
Moon ..................R. T..........J. C. Wood
Hays .............. .R. E..................... Town
Fletcher...............Q..........McCune Cap.
P.Marshall Cap. L. H.........................Hale
R. Marshall ... .R. H......Vanderhoof
Loomis................F.......................... Cohen
Score by quarters:
Carnegie Tech ...........0 2 7 716
Case.................................0 0 0 00
SubstitutionsCase, Meredith for 
Town; Daroge for Gettman; Gettman 
for Daroge; Deuring for Cohen; Reed 
for D. Wood; Ten-Hooper for Ed
wards; Town for Meredith, Healy for 
Gettman. Tech, McClain for Rob
erts; Henderson for Moon; Tennel for 
Wittmer; Curtis for Hays; Baldwin 
for R. Marshall. Touchdowns. Loomimprovement
is, Brunwasser. SafetyTech. Goals 
from touchdownsFlecher, 2. First 
downsTech, 21; Case, 5. Penalties 
Tech, 5; 35 yards; Case, 3, 25 yards. 
Officials  Knox of Yale, Blum of 
Muhlenburg, Scott of Penn.
LEHIGH NEXT TO PLAY AT TECH FIELD-GAME TO START AT ONE OCLOCK
The next game on our schedule is 
with Lehigh University and will prove 
to be a supreme test for Coach Stef
fens eleven. Lehigh has a veteran 
team coach this year and has not met 
defeat.
Last Saturday they defeated N. Y. 
Aggies 51-0 and by reports did not 
have to exert themselves.
The team is exceptionally heavy in 
the line, having two men who will tip 
the beam at over two hundred pounds. 
At quarter is Herrington, a very fast 
man and first class kicker. The other 
backfield men are exceptionally large 
and fast. Coach Steffen's hopes to 
have all his regulars in shape so as 
to put the best and heaviest team pos
sible on the field. All the men came 
out of the Case game in first class 
shape, with the exception of Moon, 
who had his knee hurt but will be 
ready to play.
The game will start at one oclock 
so as to let everybody attend the PittGeorgia Tech Game at 3:30. The 
largest crowd of the season is ex
pected as Lehigh has a large following 
in this vicinity.
There will be mass cheering this 
week so as to have the best possible 
for the game. Every student is ex
pected to come to the game Saturday 
and help the team win one of the 
hardest games on the schedule.
ARTS STUDENTS~HDLD 
FIRST MEETING OF YEAR
Tuesday, October 14, the student body of the Division of the Arts met in the little theatre for their first business meeting of the year. Acting chairman Schmertz first called for an expression of sentiment on whether or not the Tartan staff should be paid. A lot of discussion arose, and finally it was decided to leave the matter to the student activities committee.The officers of the student body were voted power to borrow two hundred and fifty dollars from the student activities board to use in preliminary expenses preparing the big musical extravaganza the school is to put on in the near future.Nominations for officers for the coming year resulted as follows. Forf
 resident Eddie Greene, Bremmer and 
teed Stewart and Earley. NominaATTENTION, GOBBS
There being a great desire by 
gobs in the school to form 
some kind of an organization, a 
meeting lias been arranged to 
be held in Room 209 Science 
at the the port gangway".
Every gob should be thorc 
as at that meeting it is to be 
determined whether an organi
zation is to be formed in the 
school If an organization is 
formed, officers will be elected 
and plans made for Nov. 11.
Be on deck gobs at 12.10 
p. m., Friday at Room 209, 
Science.
lions were declined by Williamson and Rice. For first vice president, Todd, Brochman, Davis and Rice. For second vice president Miss Crowe and Miss Sarah Floyd were nominated. For secretary Dake, Diercks, Asnin- wall and Deoney received nominations while Anderson arid Church declined. Crosley was the only nominee for treasurer Stone declining. Franklin and Shaughnessy were nominated for Tyler while Miss C. Schuman was nominated historian. Davis, Schmertz and Earley wore the nominees to the athletic board of control.
BOHEMIA, LIMITED 
COMING TO SCHENLEY
Did you ever hear of an intimate 
musical extravaganza? Neither did 
we, but were certainly going to see 
one if we get the chance. It will be 
a novelty, at least.
The Division of the Arts is to be 
credited with the production, although 
most of the work seems to have fallen 
on a certain tall, dark genTman. 
There are to be sixteen scenes, seven
teen musical numbers, and one hun
dred and fifty peoplecount em!
We already know what some of the 
scenes are to be, but think they will 
keep; and meanwhile, remember that
^'HiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiQniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii^
NOTICE
Any students who desire to g 
get back issues of the Tartan f 
may procure same at the Stu- j 
dent Post Office, Central Build- jj 
ing.
they will all be new, full of atmo
sphere, and---------, well,
Buy your ticket today, Wednesday, 
and if you want to find out more 
about the biggest thing that any one 
Division of Carnegio over pulled oil', 
read next weeks Tartan.
ARTS PLEBES PUNISHED 
AFTER TRIAL BY SOPHS
The way of the transgressor is 
hard, and in the case of obnoxious 
Arts plebes it is wet as well, for the 
old sink up in the architects drafting 
room has once more come into its own 
as an object lesson to plebes, that the 
regulations under which they sufler 
must not be brolcon. Last Friday af
ternoon the sophs filled 'or up for 
the first but not last time this year.
The plebes had hold a class mooting, 
which was very rudely terminated by 
the blood-thirsty sophs. When the 
inspection was over three luckless 
plebes were in the hands of the plebe 
discipline committee charged with 
various, but serious breaches of plebe 
etiquette. Another caught queening 
on our campus was added to the list 
of victims shortly afterward.
After being duly tried by an august 
jury of upper-class men, each plebe in 
turn prayed for rain and proceeded 
to give a beautiful exhibition of 
arts, much to the amusement of the 
large crowd of upper-class men who 
crowded around to see the fun. One 
plebe who had committed some lesser 
offense was turned over to the sophs 
to finish one of the unfinished niches 
in front of the Art's building. After 
having procured the proper scenery 
he was exhibited Monday noon.
The girl plebes were not forgotten 
either, for the sophomore girls peraded them and put the hair of offend
ers in pigtails. The girl plebes have 
been exceptionally unruly, but the dis
cipline committee is working out plans 
to put them in their proper place in 
school life.
---------------&----------------
SCIENCE SOPHOMORES 
ELECT CLASS OFFICERS
At a meeting held on Wednesday, October 5 the Science Sophomoies elected the following class officers.
President .............................. CurtissVice President .......................Skyrm
Secretary.............................StevensonTreasurer................................... WadeSenate.............................Cunningham
Today is the Day. 
Buy your Thistle Receipt.
Co-operate.
WANTED
At least 200 students with enough spirit 
to take the trip to Cornell on 
November 7.
Full details in next issue.
ui

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE TARTANWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 22, 1919.
Qfy? (Haran
. Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Activities Board.
Entered in the postoffice of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
This year $1.50
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
5c the copy Canada, $1.75
Phone Schenley 3743
Phone Hazel 9425.
EDITORIAL 
Managing Editor 
L. K. Paquin 
Assistant Managing Editors 
F. I. Smith 
C. L. Lake 
News Editor 
C. M. Blackburn 
Associate News Editors 
J. T. Ames 
W. D. Hall 
Athletic Editor 
II. W. Lynn
Assistant Athletic Editor 
G. C. Goodrich
School Editors
M. M. C. S.............Margaret J. Griffen
Science....................J. K. W. Macalpine
Industrie.............................f. It. Rudisill
Arts..................................T. R. Hinckley
Other Assistants 
II. C. Ilaldeman 
It. G. Welsh 
L. A. McCardell 
Arthur Lubin 
J. it. Barrow
BUSINESS STAFF
D. A. Sillers 
N. E. Fox 
Win. Obenour 
M. I. Cohen 
Circulation Manager 
II. G. Atchley
TARTAN OFFICE............................................................................Room 162, Design
Hours1:00 to 4:00 Wednesdays.
12:00 to 1:00 Thursdays.
The Editor-in-chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the Man
aging Editor for the make up.
All business communications should be sent to the Business Manager. 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported 
at once. ________________________
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the signature to be withheld if desired.
All news items must be in the student postoffice, Central Building, before 
4:30 P. M. Fridays.
Fraternity Notes
WELCOME.
This week the College Presidents Association will be the guests of our 
President at theCarnegie Institute of Technology. This marks the first event 
of its kind in our institution. May we take this opportunity of welcoming 
them in their visit to the Institution of which we are all proud, hoping that 
they may be inspired as well as entertained by what they may see or hear 
within our walls. Although it is not an affair of students we trust that every 
courtesy will be shown them, be it large or small.
--------------------
CO-OPERATION.
This issue marks the advent of the so-called Calendar of Future 
Events". We have noticed that other schools use this method of bringing 
fdture events to the students attention and after waiting a few weeks until 
things got started we have decided to try the scheme.
Why is the article entitled co-operation? The answer is, simply, that 
you can help us keep an up-to-date calendar by co-operating. If you have 
any dates for the calendar we want them, and if you want to put them in it 
is an easy matter to hand in a slip of paper, with the date on, at the Student 
Post Office. Incidentally this applies to news articles as well as calendar 
dates.The Four Schools Council has also set out to investigate the same matter. 
The idea being to have printed cards posted about. We have consented to take 
this matter off their hands by co-operating with them. Wo look to you to 
co-operate with us and the Dean of Mon, as well, in this matter. Give it your 
careful consideration.----------O;----------
MASS CHEERING.
After the Case game several Alumni were heard to remark that the 
cheering was not up to scratch. Looks bad when our Alumni notice the 
non-represontativo cheering.The plan proposod by the Four Schools Council cannot be recommended 
too highly and Indood needs all the investigation that can be given it. It is to 
set aside one hour or two oacli week for mass cheering. It seems that no 
batter plan could be adopted to bring our cheering up to its former standard.
Cheering requires practice as well as any team needs it; there is an art 
to cheering as well as there is an art to any other trade, study or practice. 
Why can we not acquire it? Nothing can be done without practice; so the 
natural course to follow would bo to practice, for oven the cheerleader 
.......I ii.II, has also been suggested that more cheerleaders be secured. Truly wc 
need them. It is a Job in itself, and if you dont think it istry it. Two men 
ennnot do It all. Why not follow out the suggestion?
In a very few weeks the rivals clash again on the old battlefield, Forbes 
Field. Therefore, the council's plan cannot bo acted on too quiekly. The 
aim is to carry of both honors but we might at least bo sure of cheering 
honors.
HENCE PLEBES HOLD 
ASSEMBLY
CALENDAR OF EVENTS.
October 21 Avo Club Meeting..........................................Club Room, Industries
October 23Ohio Club Meeting......................4:30 1*. M., Room 123, Industries
October 24American Assn of Engineers... .'1:30 I*. M., Room 122, Science
October 2<lSophomores, M. M. I)., Dance.........................................................Union
October 24Commercial Club Meeting.. 11:30 A. M., Commercial Club Room
October 24Ex-Navy Men Meeting.........................................Room 205), Science
October 25Football Dance ...................................................................................Union
November 1Football Dance..................................................................................Union
November 11Victory Holiday (tentative).
November 25Carnegie Day................................................................................Classes
November 27Thanksgiving Day.............................................................No Classes
----------$----------
OFFICIAL NOTICE.
All students registered for R. O. T. C. work, and who have not yet
reported must do so at once, as absentee lists will be sent in regularly from
the Military Departments office.
Students who are in doubt as to their section or as to any other detail
pertaining to their R. O. T. C. work should call at once at the office of the
department.
Measurements for uniforms must be taken before the end of the week.
--------------------
STUDENTS TO SEE KING ALBERT.
The Mayors Committee in charge of the visit of the Belgian King and 
Queen to Pittsburgh has put Co. J. C. W. Brooks in charge of the arrange
ments of the assembly of college students at Forbes Field on Thursday 
afternoon, October 23rd, in order that they may have an opportunity to see 
the Belgian King and Queen.
Students must attend this meeting in a body and occupy positions alloted 
to them. Individuals will not be admitted to the Field.
Students of this Institution will form on the road in front of the
Division of Industries at 3:30 p. m. punctually Thursday afternoon, headed 
by the Band, which will form on the Machinery Hall grounds.
All students are urged to be present at this formation, not only because 
of the fact that all should be interested in seeing the rulers of a country so 
closely allied with us in the great war, but in order to make a good showing 
for Tech at the Field as compared with the other colleges represented. 
Come out!
FORMER TARTAN
ATHLETES ABROAD
J. G. Juergons, former crack mile 
and two-mile runner of Carnegie 
Techs track team, has completed an 
apprenticeship course in Now York 
and has boon sent to Batavia, Java, 
in the employ of the Standard Oil 
Company.
E. Y. Davidson, Techs 100-yard 
man, is in Liverpool, England, on spe
cial work for the United States ship
ping board.
DANCE
The third football dance of the year 
will be held in the Union on Saturday 
night, October 25th. The usual ad
mission of one dollar per couple. Come 
and help support the team.
----------O-----
Pitt should confer a new degree, 1*. S.Pretty Soft.
Students who fail to pass the exams 
in this course will get diplomas as 
critics.
SIGMA RHO.
Mr. M. Edwin Green gave his 
friends a very pleasant surprise when 
he blew in to school one day last week 
unheralded and unannounced. Mr. 
Green had not intended to enter 
school until the second quarter, but 
evidently he was struck with the 
hunch that we all have, that there 
is no place like Tech, and couldnt 
stay away. Green has had some great 
experiences in the air service since 
his last battle with esquisse-esquisses 
in Design School.
Men who attended the W. & J. game 
at Washington were entertained by 
the Betas of that school after the 
game. They were rescued from the 
mud, dried off and fed.
-----------0.----------
OPHELEUM.
The fraternity wishes to announce 
the pledging of Mr. it. P. Woodward 
from Youngstown, Ohio. Mr. Wood
ward has returned to Tech after serv
ice with A. E. F., and joins the class 
of 1021.
Pledge Simons of Charleston, S. C., 
is once more in our midst.
Most of the Brothers made the trip 
to Washington, Pa., with the football 
team and were entertained at the 
home of Brother John E. Hess. All 
agreed that it was a well spend week
end.
Opheleum has already made plans 
to send several men to support the 
football team on their invasion of 
Cornell, November 8.
----------&----------
WOODLAWN CLUB.
The Woodlawn Club had its first 
smoker of the year Friday evening, 
October 17, and it was one of the 
most successful ever held. About 
seventy-five guests were present, in
cluding many students and alumni. 
The entertainment was furnished by 
the members which included a jazz 
band and a few sketches. In all, it 
was an evening never to be forgotten.
--------------------
DELTA UPSILON.
On Friday, October 17 a dance was 
held at the chapter house. N. II. Mul
ler, A. J. Drux and A. A. Neff, the 
committee conducted it in a most suc
cessful manner. About thirty couples 
were present and all enjoyed every 
moment of the evening. The decora
tions, in charge of Brother Muller, 
were very tastefully arranged.
----------0-------
ALPHA KAPPA PSI
Alpha Kappa Psi fraternity held its 
first general council Sunday October 
19th, following which the members to
gether with many alumni and guests 
were entertained at tea at the home 
of Sara Floyd in Howe St.
----------*2----------
KAPPA SIGMA RHO
The evening of Friday, October 17 
marked the first entertainment of the 
year for the Kappa Sigma Rho Fra
ternity. The smoker was held at the 
new house of the fraternity on Wood
lawn avenue and smokes, eats, and 
music comprised the main events of 
the evening. The home-made pies es
pecially brought most delight to the 
hearts of members and guests. Pipes 
with the fraternity letters on the bowl 
wero given away as souvenirs.
---------$----------------
SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON
Brother Donnis, formerly of Univer
sity of Maine, arrived in Pittsburgh 
last week and is now registered at 
Tech. Brother Carle, formerly of 
Mount Union College has also enroll
ed at Tech. Brother ONeil of Wor 
coster, Mass., called at the house dur 
ing the week.
Friday evening a smoker was held 
at the chapter house, at which some 
sixty men were present, including 
guests, and brothers from nearby 
chapters. The evening was well filled 
with entertainment. A fast, threeround boxing bout was staged by the 
Cunningham twins. To preserve the 
family peace the result of the bout 
was called a draw. A number of con 
tests, physical and otherwise, were 
staged, which provided a fine succes 
sion of laughs for the onlookers. The 
smoker was according to all reports 
a huge success.
The event of the Case-Tech foot
ball game brought a number of visi
tors to the house for the week-end. 
Brothers Edwards, Agerter, Domizi, 
Carter, and Lang, of Case were at the 
house Saturday and Sunday, and at
tended the football dance.
--------------------
FORMER TECH MAN IN
Students will be interested to learn 
that Harold B. Smith a former stu
dent of the Department of Architec
ture, 1916-1917, participated in the 
Coast to Coast Race, which is now 
taking place. He left Mineola Field 
but was forced to make a landing be
fore reaching Buffalo, because of fog. 
In attempting to make a get-away the 
following day, his machine struck a 
tree in the orchard and he was oblig
ed to discontinue the flight.
--------------------
FACULTY TEA
The faculty of Maragarct Morrison 
entertained the new members of the 
different school faculties last Monday 
afternoon in the Facultv Parlors at 
M. M. 11. Mrs. Elizabeth Vermorcken, of the General Studies Depart
ment, was chairman of the committee. 
A great many of the new faculty mem
bers attended the tea, using the op
portunity to become acquainted with 
their colleagues.
On Wednesday, October 14, the 
science freshmen held their assembly 
in Carnegie Union in place of the 
General Assembly of the Science 
School. This years freshman class 
is the largest that the school has ever 
seen; there is an increase of at least 
250 new men.
President Ilamerschlag addressed 
the assembly, bringing out forcibly 
the value of an all around education 
and also the value of each student 
participating in student activities. 
Director Mott took this time to ex
plain to the new men the policy of 
the science school both in regard to 
discipline and schoolastic government.
Dean Tarbell spoke a few words on 
hazing and also told of the opening of 
the Y hut as a library and study 
hall. The advantages obtained from 
the R. O. T. C. were briefly explained 
by one of Col. Brooks assistants.
After this the assembly was turned 
over to the students as a class meet
ing. Acting chairman Kennedy took 
charge of the nomination of officers 
for the ensuing year. The names of 
those who were nominated will appear 
elsewhere in this issue.
piiiiiiniiiuiiiiiiiiiiiM
PLEBE SCIENCE NOMINATIONS
President
CraigheadBradyW etzelGoundreySchroederTiptonTempletonBroseGreene, J. C. Oliver Holt, W. H.
Secretary
AromsonJohnson, C. T.NuttingY ongeJensenEmoryMooreBrieey
Treasurer 
Patterson Johnson, E. D. Breckwith, W. 
Roberts, W. IL Kelly, J. M. Burchard Campbell A.
^i|i||||l!lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll!llll
FOR COLLEGE MEN
There is an excelling style atmosphere 
about our clothes which make them instant
ly popular.
They appeal to college men not alone be
cause of their dominating style, but largely 
on account of the high-grade tailoring and 
serviceable fabrics.
Our chain-store system affords worth-while 
sayings. Visit our store nearest you and be 
convinced. Correct fit and satisfaction 
guaranteed.
OUR OWN RETAIL STORES AT
AKRON, Ohio............................124 S. Main St.
CLEVELAND, Ohio. 503-505 Prospeet Ave.
MILWAUKEE, Wis..............' . .192 Third St.
PITTSBURGH, Pa..................507 Market St.
PITTSBURGH, Pa.. .209-11 Smithfield St.
PITTSBURGH, Pa............932 Liberty Ave.
READING, Pa..............................751 Penn St.
SCHENECTADY, N. Y.. .302-304 State St.
SYRACUSE, N. Y.................138 S. Salina St.
TERRE HAUTE, Ind... .410 Wabash Ave.
WILKES-BARRE, Pa.............66 S. Main St.
YOUNGSTOWN O.. 107-109 W. Federal St.
We will open stores at Scranton, Pa., and 
Trenton, N. J., early in 1920.
Sf3i3M3M3M3/SM3/SM2/3MSM2/3Mi/33/(3fpiPPiP/nifiojf3fijni]rorarararararararafsiCTEiraf=i/nrniW.
OAKLAND HARDWARE COMPANY 
| Baseballs and Gloves Tennis Balls
3606 FORBES STREET

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 22, 191.THE TARTANPAGE THREE
A STRONG INSTITUTION
The Mellon National Bank is 
one of the most thoroughly 
organized, strongest financial 
institutions on the country. 
It is in a position to handle 
any account, large or small, 
with care and competency.
I0NAL
Pittsburgh, Pa.
n TRANSITS AND LEVELS 
ALL SUPPLIES FOR THE 
DRAFTING ROOM
Engineers Equipment, Instru
ments of Precision, Blue Print 
and Brown Print Papers and 
Cloths.
B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
jjj 126 SIXTH STREET j
FOURSC
SERVICE
IRON CITY ELECTRIC CO.
436 SEVENTH AVE. 
All Kinds of Batteries 
Repaired and Recharged
I
FRATERNITIES
ATTRACTIVE SNAPPY
YOUNG MENS STORE 
JAGEMAN & SPICKERT 
CLOTHINGHATSFURNISHINGS 
6121 Penn Avenue East Liberty
| STUDENTS WELCOME j
Fred Suddaby's Cafeteria
'i BUREAU OF MINES BUILDING
11 A. M. to 2 P. M. Every School Dav
-----------------------------------------------------------------:-----------------------:---------------
;! GREAT EATS AT :
THE SCHENLEY LUNCH 
FORBES AND CRAIG STREETS
FEED SUDDABY, Proprietor 
K,'X'vvv,:-XX,vvv'X"X"K"X''X1Xv-X'vvv':">v,X"X''X^Xvv---vvvv-X
RESULTS OF SCIENCE
JUNIOR CLASS ELECTION
A meeting- of the Juniors in Science School was held on Tuesday, October 14 for the purpose of electing- officers. A motion was made to change the method of electing the president and vice president. Instead of voting for one man each man was to vote for his first and second choice. The man receiving most votes would be president and the second highest vice president. The motion was carried.
The results of the election were as
f ollbws:
President............................... BloomVice President.................Schmidt
Treasurer....................................Gare
Secretary ............................. FoxenSenate, 1 year....................... Todd
The vote for two-year senator was a tie between Foxen and Butts, and a meeting- will be held to vote again 
on the men.
VET WILLIAMS ELECTED
TO ACTIVITIES BOARD
The most. important event at the Science Assembly was the election of a student activities representative from the Junior Class. Vet Williams was elected to the office. Following the election came a number of an
nouncements, with special emphasis 
on the Case game and Football Dance. 
Pafenbach led the singing of the Alma Mater and a few cheers. Then Barrow gave a lot of jazz. Dean Mott was to have spoken at the Assembly but was detained until after the adjournment.----------8------
ADVISORS ENTERTAIN
FRESHMEN AT M. M. D.
The faculty advisors of the various 
groups of freshmen have been giving 
a sei-ies of teas to the freshmen dur
ing the last few weeks. Miss Honecker of the Secretarial Department 
and Miss Hunter, of the Science De
partment entertained their advisers 
last Thursday afternoon. Dean Breed 
and Miss Parry were present. Dr. 
Brashear was also an unexpected but 
most welcome guest. He talked for 
about an hour on his interesting trav
els in China. As usual, his talk was 
most interesting. He was at school 
Thursday as a member of the Board 
of Trustees. The trustees were shown 
through the laboratories, the art 
rooms, and other departments.
CABARET TO BE GIVEN
FOR IB. M. FRESHMEN
The Juniors of Margaret Morrison 
are planning a cabaret to be given for 
the Freshmen in the gymnasium on 
the evening of November first from 
five to eight oclock.
The Chairmen of the Committees 
in charge are:
MenuMildred Spencer.
PropertiesMargaret Stolzenbach.
VaudevilleEllen Speers.
DecorationsAdele J. Gumbert.
All the Freshment of Margaret 
Morrison are cordially invited and the 
Juniors assure them that a good time 
is in store.
INDUSTRY SOPHOMORES
ENTERTAIN FRESHMEN
The Industry Sophomore class acted 
as hosts to the Fresh of that divis
ion at a smoker held last night in the 
Union. Several hundred students 
were in attendance and the evening 
was enjoyed by all. The new men 
quickly lost their backwardness under 
the cordial welcome extended them by 
the upper-class men. A most inter
esting and entertaining program was 
carried out while smokes and eats of 
many varieties were in abundance.
CARNEGIE CLAN ACTIVITIES
Akron, OhioOn October 2, the 
graduates and former students, living 
in Akron held their first meeting for 
the purpose of organizing Clan activ
ity for the year. About fifteen men 
attended, including graduates and stu
dents from many classes. Former 
Professor John C. Sproull, who is now 
connected with the B. F. Goodrich Co. 
was the guest of the evening. Offic
ers were elected for the coming year. 
The November meeting was planned 
for the evening of the 25th, which is 
Mr. Carnegie's birthday.
Philadelphia, Pa.  On Saturday 
evening, October 11, fourteen men in 
the Philadelphia District got together 
for a luncheon at the Arcadia Res
taurant, and aiFected an organization 
for the ensuing year. The following 
officers were elected:
L. E. Exline, '08.............President
R. B. Coldren, '10. .. .V. President
A. E. Ball, '13....................Secretary
The following former faculty mem
bers were elected to membership in 
the ClanMessrs. H. L. Lowe, Mr. 
II. K. McGoodwin, H. Smith, and Mr. 
Yount. The program for the year was 
adopted, calling for meetings on No
vember 25 and a date during the 
Christmas Holidays. Students who are 
home for the Christmas vacation will 
be invited to attend the dinner during 
that week.
----------8----------
IN MEMORIAN.
A very sad, but on the whole a mer
ciful occurrence of last week, which 
should be recorded with all solemnity 
is the demise of a well-known mem
ber of the School of Drama. Altho 
he had as yet made no public per
formance in the Theatre, he had 
shown wonderful adaptibility, and it 
is sad that he should have been taken 
off before an opportunity presented 
itself for him to demonstrate his histronic talent. His only appearance 
was in support of Miss Grey McAuley in the Sophomore production, 
The Trials of a Manager.
Considering, however, that he had 
no voice to speak of, that, as one 
young lady remarked theres some
thing the matter with his feethis 
back ones dont work in harmony with 
his front ones, and that he was blind, 
perhaps it was all for the best.
So nine members of the school 
were chosen, one for each life, and 
(he mascot, Props, in other words, 
the stage cat, was ushered from this 
mundane sphere with the aid of a lit
tle chloroform. But another PropH 
a really playful, bright-eyed kitten 
has already taken his place. Props 
is deadlong live Props.
THE 23rd PSALM.
(A Psalm of a Plcbe.)
The Sophs are my guardians I wish 
hey went not.
2. They malceth me to march 
around on the green campus: they 
leadeth me beside deep waters.
3. They torture my soul: they for
bid me to walk the stairs of my choos
ing, for their amusement's sake.
4. Yea, tho I walk with a soft tread, 
they are sure to hear me: for they 
are not lenient; their rods and their 
staves, they comfort mo, not.
5. They prepareth for me, for they 
I are mine enemies: they covereth my 
head with ridicule; my patience run
neth over.
(5. Surely trouble and humiliation 
shall follow me, all of my plebe days: 
and I will dwell in peace and security 
forever after.
I). W. Wardrop, '23. 
--------------------
Columbia college reports that its 
movie scenario course is a success. 
Several graduates havo sold plots. 
This proves that a college education 
is not always a bar to higher things.
 What a college boy knows of life 
ought to make great keystono drama.
mimmmmmmmmmmmmmmnt
OAKLAND EXPRESS AND 
TRANSFER COMPANY
Bell Phoneo 578 & 9169 Schonley 
P. A. 1092-R 
229 ATWOOD STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 
Household Goods Moved, Stored, 
Packed and Shipped.
mmtmmtttmmmsmsmmmmmmm
Grace Church
(Reformed)
BAYARD and DITHRIDQE STREETS 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Mlnloter. 
SERVICES:Sunday School9:4(5 A. M.Morning Worship11 A. M. Christian Endoavor7 P. M. Popular Bvonlng Sorvlcon at 7:45. Sormona for Hoad and Heart. 
Hearty Weloome for All.
ASCENSION EPI8COPAL CHURCH Ellnworth Avonuo and Neville Stroot DR. WYATT BROWN, Rector DR. ROS8 R. CALVIN, Annlntant.Sunday Sorvlocs, 8:00 A. M., 11:00 A. M. and H:00 P. M.Uollogo MenH Bible Class at 10:00, led by Dr. Calvin.
GLOOM, DEEP GLOOM
The gloomiest placc in Pitts
burgh Saturday afternoon was the Hotel Schcnlcy, where Uni
versity of Pittsburgh students 
and graduates had gathered to 
receive returns from the Pan
thers game at Syracuse.
The gloom was so thick that 
you could have cut it with a dull 
knife. The failure of the Pan
thers to stop the attack of the 
big Orange team was a terrible 
blow to the overconfident fol
lowers of the Warnerites, who 
had come to believe that defeat 
for a Pitt team was impossible.
They had ignored Coach War
ners warnings that the Pan
thers were likely to be licked. 
Many of them had wagered on 
the size of the score Pitt would 
roll up. And as the wire report 
unfolded the tale of the first 
collegiate defeat Pittsburgh had 
suffered in more than four sea
sons, there was sadness in the 
breast of every Pitt follower. 
The Pitt band forgot to play, 
and if one had seen read close 
he might have spied tears of 
anguish in the eyes of more 
than one young humbled Pan
ther.
All Studento Genuinoly Welcomo.
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
Shady and Northumberland AvcnuooGraded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. Proaehlng Services, 11:00 A. M. and 8:00 P. M.
Young Peoples Sorvice, 7.00 P. M. 
Brlof and Warm-Hearted Messages, A cordial welcome to all.
BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN 
CHURCH 
Be I lefle Id and Fifth Avenues
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. 
MI n iste,r.
Preaching Services 11 and 8.
Sunday school at 10.
Christian Endeavor at 7.
We want the Tech boys to attend our services and learn to know us as the congregation of Friendly People, A hearty welcome awaits you.
ST. PAULS CATHEDRAL
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.
Masses: 6:30, 8:00, 9:00, 10:00 and11:00 A. M. on Sundays and Holy 
Days.Vespers on Sundays at 7:30 P, M. Pew 58, Middle Aisle, for Tech Stu
dents.
ipiMl
COME TO THE YOUNG MENS CLASS
First Baptist ChurchBellefield and Bayard Street
Every Sunday at 10 A. M.Dr. V. T. (iALPIN, Tcacher
^iwiniiiiiiaiiiiiifiiiiiiiiiHiiBiiiitiiiiiHiuiiiiniiiiiiKiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniitiiuitiiiiiiuDHiiniL'iUNii'iininiwiiu
U DANCE?
DANCING LESSONS CLASS AND PRIVATE
JACQUES DANCING ACADEMY 
CRAIG AND FORBES BELL PHONE
DELICIOUS CAKES
------for-------
SOCIAL AFFAIRS
------at------
THE HALLER BAKERY
3610 FORBES STREET 
IROQUOIS BLOCK
TO ORGANIZE CHAPTER
OF NATIONAL SOCIETY
A short organization meeting will 
be held in Room 122, Division of 
Science and Engineering, Friday Oc
tober 24th at 4:30 p. m. All members 
and those interested are urged to at
tend.
The American Association of En
gineers has filled a long-felt want 
among engineers. There are at pres
ent technical societies for every pro
fession, such as the Society of Mech
anical Engineers, Civil Engineers, 
etc., but these satisfy only the tech
nical needs of engineers. The eco
nomic and social needs have been sad
ly neglected. The result is that the engineer frequently receives less re
muneration than the semi-skilled 
laborer under him. Also, the engineer 
does not receive the recognition that 
the member of other professions of 
equal training does. With these facts 
in mind the American Association of 
Engineers was organized.
The A. A. E. is not a labor union, 
but it is a union of the same type as 
the United States Chamber of Com
merce, or as the American Medical 
Society, or as the Bar Association, or 
any other professional organization.
In the four years of its rapid growth, 
it has already accomplished much in 
bringing about legislation favorable to 
the engineer, in raising his compensa
tion, and in publicity work.
The association has chapters in 
many universities and colleges 
throughout the country. Engineering 
tudents in the three upper classes are 
eligible for student membership. No 
entrance fee is required for students. 
The fee for other members is $6.00. 
The association is very active in se
curing employment for student mem
bers both during their summer vaca
tions and after their graduation.
SECOND FOOTBALL DANCE
PROVES HUGE SUCCESS
The cross country team is phowing 
up splendidly. With fifty enthusiastic 
candidates out every night an abund
ance of material is evident for a real 
team.
Despite the bad weather conditions 
this past week the men have been re
porting faithfully and Capt. Schmidt 
is very much pleased with the spirit of 
the men. The fact that the Cornell 
meet is a certainty has spurred them 
on to greater efFort and they hope 
that the school will be back of them 
throughout the entire schedule.
Among the old men showing up well 
are Lawson, Schmidt, ICrossler, Liv
ingston and ICrebs.
strati on)
before) an3>
(SEMSJSMSJSiSJSMSJIicfiJiiJUSiSJiJffCUiAHIKi
P. LUDEBUEHL AND SON
PENN AND FRANKSTOWN 
AVENUES
THE PLACE WHERE
STUDENTS
TAKE THEIR SHOES
Bellefield 
Shoe Repairing Co.
Across from the Library
If there was ever any doubt as to 
whether or not the student body was 
back of our football team, a glimpse 
of the crowd in the Union last Sat
urday evening would have removed 
it. To say that the second football 
dance of the year was a success is 
putting it mildly. So far beyond all 
expectations was the size of the 
crowd, that the management was 
caught unprepared. Programs ran 
out, punch ran out, in fact everything 
ran out but the spirits which was 
present throughout the dance. A great 
number of Alumni were present tak
ing advantage of this opportunity to 
celebrate the victory over Case.
CROSS COUNTRY TEAM
MAKES GOOD SHOWING
One of your 
best friends is 
your pencil.
quickens your 
pencil work, 
makes it easier 
and better. It 
is a friend in
Sold by leading 
stationersat school
$8.50 to $15.50
CUT DOWN YOUR SHOE |j 
EXPENSE by buying better  
shoes. You will find them far ja 
cheaper to wear than shoes [j 
which are not so high In quality, [a 
Our new models for FALL and g 
WINTER are now In, and they [2 
arc full of snapjust suitable jg 
for the college man.
and in town.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE TARTANWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 22, 1919.
GIFTS

c a package
before the war
c a package 
' during the war
!c a package
* NOW
THE FLiWOR LASTS 
SO DOES THE PRICE!
COLLEGE PRESIDENTS 
GUESTS AT CARNEGIE
The Association of College Presi
dents of Pennsylvania will meet in 
Pittsburgh this week. Its sessions 
will be held at the Carnegie Institute 
of Technology on Wednesday and 
Thursday. The meeting will be open
ed Wednesday evening at 8 oclock 
with a reception in honor of the mem
bers of the association, to be given 
by Dr. Arthur Hamerschlag on behalf 
of the school, in the assembly room 
of the building of the Division of Arts. 
The reception will be followed at \) 
o'clock by a performance of Synges 
Well of the Saints, to be given in 
the Little Theater by students of the 
school of drama.
A meeting will be held on Thursday 
morning at 10 o'clock in the Division 
of Arts, and at 1 oclock a luncheon 
will be given in the exhibition room 
of the building. In the afternoon, 
commencing at 2:30 oclock, the dele
gates will visit the Carnegie Institute 
of Technology, the University of Pitts
burgh and the Pennsylvania College 
for Women, accompanied by guides. 
A tea will be given at the home of Dr. 
Hamerschlag at 5:30, followed by a 
dinner at the Pittsburgh Athletic As
sociation for the college presidents 
and their wives.
The heads of 30 institutions of 
Pennsylvania are members of the as
sociation, of Which Dr. Hamerschlag 
is president and Dr. I Harvey Brum
baugh, president of Juniata College, 
Huntingdon, is secretary.
-------------------
li
% ff \V J V I:
TRDE
ill11
__
ROLL CALL" MEETING 
OF M. M. GRADUATES
The main feature of the Y. W. C. A. 
meeting last Wednesday in the Re
creation Room was the roll call of 
last years seniors. Barbara Endoes 
read the names and told, as far as pos
sible, what.each girl is doing. It 
gave the old girls a chance to hear 
about those whose faces they have 
missed so much this year, and it gave 
the new girls an opportunity to find 
out what Margaret Morrison girls do 
after they have completed their 
courses here and have gone into the 
business world.
Gladys Bogue gave a recitation on 
Making a Home which was greatly 
appreciated by all the girls, but espe
cially by those who are living away 
from home this year. Mary Bechtel 
was in charge of the meeting.
For the benefit of those who were 
not at the meeting, the following list 
is printed. There will.be somethin  I 
every week that will be worth your 
while coming to hear. Every o?r 
come. Let us carrv on the work Fotb alT I 
girls started so well.
Grace TaggartLaboratory Tech
nician in Hospital.
Phyllis McMnrlinIndustrial Sec
retary at Y. W. C. A., Swissvalc.
Berenice Kruger  Secretary in 
President Hamerschlag office.
Margaret HollarExecutive Secre
tary of the Protective Association. 
Philadelphia.
Elinor MellonSecretary at Bu
reau of Mines.
Lydia McCarthySecretary at Fisk 
Teachers Agency, Pittsburgh.
Marguerite Hakleman  Secretary 
at Union Switch and Signal Co., 
Swissvalc.
Inez PottsLaboratory Technician 
at Braddoclc Hospital.
Mary YoungSupervisor of Home 
Making at Vocational High School, 
Frcdonia, Pa.
Mary TrumanCafeteria Director 
in V. W. C. A., Winston-Salem, N. C.
Dorthy IlarlowClub worker at 
Hostess House, Pittsburgh.
Marion KeeferAssistant in De
partment of Household Economics,
C. I. T.
Gladys FlemingInstructor in sew
ing at II. Black Co., Clothing Factory, 
Cleveland, Ohio.
Ruth TobergInstructor in sewing 
at Printz-Biederman Co., Cleveland.
Maude HainerInstructor in sew
ing, at Printz-Biederman Co., Cleve
land.
Laura KramerLaboratory Tech
nician at Buhl Hospital, Sharon, Pa.
Helen DaleeSupervisor of Home 
Making in the Vocational High 
School, Brownsville, Pa.
Helen HoilmanTeacher of domes
tic science at Sharpsville High School.
Charlotte CorswirtGirls Worker 
at Presbyterian Parish House, New 
York.
Helen SavardSupervisor of art, 
Conneaut, Ohio.
Martha PotterInstructor in sew
ing at Printz-Biederman Clothing Co., 
Cleveland, Ohio.
Mildred LawrenceInstructor in 
dressmaking at Sleighton Farms, 
Philadelphia.
Linda LymanTeacher of sewing 
at Raven High School, Youngstown, 
Pa.
Genevieve MillerDept, of Applied 
Psychology, C. I. T.
Betty JohnsonTeacher of domes
tic science, Jeannette, Pa.
Salome StammSecretary at Pitts
burgh Law School.
President of Y. W. C. A. last year.
Mary Morgenstern-Office Work, 
Westfield, N. Y.
----O-----
A NOTE OF THANKS.
The office stall of the Science and 
Engineering Division take this op
portunity to thank the Tau Beta Pi 
fraternity for the box of candy left in 
| their office.
DONT take a fellows pipe. Take some other possession. 
Because wrapped up in his pipe is a fellows peace of 
mind, his relaxation, his contentment. This is more than 
true if its a W D C Pipe, because then a good smoke is multi
plied many times over. Our special seasoning process takes 
care of this by bringing out all the sweetness and mellowness 
of the genuine French briar. Just you go to any good dealer 
and select several good shapes. Put them in your rack. 
Smoke a cool one every time, and youll be well on your 
way to pipe-happiness.
WM. DEMUTH &. CO., NEW YORK
FOURSCH RLUNIHD U T U I MLEGALPDGUIUH
CLUB 
REORGANIZES FOR YEAR
A meeting of the members of the 
Cosmopolitan Club was held last week 
in Science Building. A majority of 
the old members attended and a num
ber of the new foreign students were 
also present. With the large number 
of foreign students at the institution 
this year and the interest shown by 
a number of upper-class men it is ex
pected that a large and active mem
bership will result and the Club will 
take its place among the other stu
dent organizations.
A Get Acquainted meeting and 
smoker will be held within the next 
few weeks, notice .of which will be 
posted on the several bulletin boards 
and to which all those interested in 
the work of the society are invited.
During the winter months it is 
planned to hold a series of social and 
educational meetings and to promote 
friendly relationships between the 
many foreign students.
At the meeting Thursday the fol
lowing were elected officers: Presi
dent, A. W. Prins; vice-president, T.
C. Gershen; secretary, W. Hall; treas
urer, II. M. Marc.
The first Friday of every month was 
selected as the regular meeting night.
FIRST MEETING HELD BY SCIENCE SENATE
The Science Senate held the first 
meeting of the year Monday after
noon in the Civil Club Room. .The 
chief business was the election of of
ficers and appointment of committees. 
The election resulted as follows:
President..........................G. Stone
Vice President.........C. B. Schmidt
Secretary......................C. H. Todd
Treasurer.......................... M. Fair
The following committees were ap
pointed:
Plebe Conduct:
Paftenbach, Chairman,
Curtiss, Cunningham.
Bill Board:
Giffin, Chairman,
Bloom, Fair.
Club Room:
Beatty, Chairman,
Foxen, Slcyrm.
Auditing:
Fair, Chairman,
Todd, (President of Plebe Class 
when elected.)
It was decided to hold meetings 
every other Monday at 4:30.
The question of a meeting place for 
the Science Assembly was discussed 
but no final decision was made.
BEAI TECH
The P. O. T. C. is well started, the 
present enrollment being 397 students 
in all of the courses. The courses of
fered are Field Artillery, Signal Corps, 
Motor Transport and Engineers. An 
excellent staff of army officers have 
been sent to Carnegie, headed by 
Colonel Brooks. The others are Lt. 
Col. Cole, Lt.-Col. Van Horn, Major
Wilkinson, Captain Knight, and Cap
tain Bell. A Lt. Colonel and a Major 
are ordered here to take charge of 
the Motor Transport Division, and a 
Lieutenant to aid in the instruction 
of the Engineers.
Any men that intend to enroll in 
the R. O. T. C. and have not yet done 
so should attend to this matter as 
soon as possible, since the opportun
ity will not be held open very long.
FRESHMEN 
HOLD SPIRITED MEETING
Over two hundred Industry fresh
men assembled in Room 104 Indus
tries, Friday afternoon and selected 
leaders for their organization. The 
meeting was called by II. C. I-Iammann, President of the Junior class, 
who presided. After outlining the 
student government organization and 
the policyunder which it operated he 
spoke briefly concerning the school 
traditions and unwritten laws; and 
also of the duties and type of officers 
to be chosen.
A number of nominations were 
made for the various offices and sev
eral spirited discussions resulted as to 
the eligability of the nominees. After 
the returns had been counted, Conoley had been chosen to fill the presi
dents chair and C. Carr, vice-presi
dent. C. W. Bunting was selected as 
secretary and J. B. May, treasurer. 
Loomis, a popular football man was 
chosen as member for the Athletic 
committee, while Allen was elected on 
the Club Room Committee; E. L. 
Bliss, Student Organization, and 
Brown on Student Deportment.
-O'-
L OF DRAMA HOLDS
ENJOYABLE RECEPTION
One of the most enjoyable social 
affairs of the new term was given on 
the stage of the Little Theatre in the 
Division of Arts, Wednesday evening 
October 15th by the upper classmen 
of the School of Drama to the Plebes. 
The entire evening was planned by 
the upper classmen and was carried 
out in every detail to perfection.
On entering the stage, the guests 
were lost in a maze of beauty and 
color. They entered a new world of 
joy and music. Never in the history 
of any previous stage party had it 
looked so bewitching in the dim candle 
light and so mystic in the stage set
tings that were used to shut off the 
outer world. The entire stage repre
sented a gorgeous cabaret with its 
tables, couches, dance floor, and even 
to a small stage, which happens to be 
a stage upon a stage, where delightful 
cabaret performing was rendered by 
the best talent of that department.
After the novel stunts the floor was 
open for all the guests and hosts were 
lost in that wonderful sensation of 
dance. A most delicious and dainty 
lunch was served, and at 12 oclock the 
big little party dispersed tired but very 
happy and all gladly acknowledged 
that they were a part of the School of 
Drama.
The following numbers were more 
than well received:
Jack Willard in Impersonations of 
Clifton Crawford.
Mary Ricards in Dance Impromtu. 
Alma Lotz sang Little Boy Blue.
SKiBO INN
EATS
Cigars and Candy
^ll'l'llllllll'IIIIIIIIIIIIIIHlillllllllllll!
NOTICE.
f All faculty members, or un- ( 
IP dergraduates who belong to the M g Masonic Fraternity and are in- g 
H terested in organizing a Ma- p 
g sonic Club at Tech,, are request- f| 
jj ed to send in, at once, their gf if name, their lodge name, num- jj 
jj her, and location, together with jj 
H their Pittsburgh address.
H Division of Engineering and j 
g Science please address: 
p. E. II. Pafenbach,
c|o C. I. T. Post Office,
Pittsburgh, Pa. jj 
Division of Arts, Division of jj 
 Industries, to
James S. Church, 
g c|o Office of the Director 
Division of the Arts,
Carnegie Tech, g
Pittsburgh, Pa. g
Carolyn McCampbell and Kenneth 
Thomson in Exhibition Dancing.
Park McClure in Burlesque Danc
ing.
Drama Department Jazz Band, con
sisting of Carl Reid, Hans Muller, 
Jack Willard and Ross Hertz.
-----------------------
CLIPPERS APPLIED TO
Punishment was meted out to sever
al Industry fresh who interpreted 
the rules and regulations as laid down 
in the Plebe Bible concerning their 
conduct in their own way. The Sophs 
arranged for a trial of the offenders 
Wednesday after the last class. Bob 
Avery of the Senior class acted as 
Judge while a jury of upper-class men 
decided on the guilt of the defendant. 
The offenses of the five were numer
ous and embraced every degree of 
crime. During the trials the more 
bold occurred the contempt of court 
by trying to force their views upon 
that body.
A pair of clippers, and a good stout 
paddle together with a little green 
paint were the instruments of torture.
The offenders were let off with only 
a nominal sentence but all the Fresh
men are advised to take the matter 
to heart as the Sophomores intend to 
enforce all the regulations, and those 
who break them will suffer severely.
----------O----------
THE GRAPHICA XMAS CARDS.
During the past week the class in 
Press Work under the supervision 
of Craige Spicker commenced the first 
work on the annual Xmas card cam
paign. A large number of .designs 
were considered and several of the 
best ones have been proved up.
