arian
BEGIN TO BOOST 
NEXT YEARS 
FOOTBALL TEAM
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAJU.NE 18, 1919
PITT TENNIS TEAM 'DOWNED AGAIN BY TECH
TF.CH SHOULD BE PROUD 
OF ITS MILITARY OUTFIT
In a fast tennis match thaf won 
Captain Beatty of the Tech team, the 
individual championship of South
western Pennsylvania, the Tech Ten
nis team swamped the Pitt team by 
score of 6 to 0 yesterday at 
Tech court. Peculiarly enough, Tech 
was badly crippled with one player 
in the hospital and another suffering 
from a wrenchcd leg. Captain Beat
ty who lost a single to Smith of 
Titt, in the last Pitt-Tech match, vin
dicated himself by beating Smith 
ladly yesterday, both in singles and 
Boubles. The gross number of points 
gained by the two teams was Tech 
<2Pitt 18. Practically every man 
on the Tech team played a star game 
ind with the exception of the game, 
lost to W. & J., and the game drawn 
with' the same team, the Plaid play| srs have finished the season with a 
*clean record. The score:
Singles.
eatty, Capt., Tech............................66
Smith, Pitt..............................................06
Stoclcslager, Tech................................66
*Lewis, Pitt .....................................'. ...11
/Gawthrop, Tech.....................................66
{Monk, Pitt................................1.............12
\opley, Tech............................................66
rhmertz, Pitt.......................................22
^ I Doubles
eatty and Stockslager, Tech...66
mith and Lewis, Pitt.....................11
jopley and Gawthrop, Tech... ..66
climertz and Monk, Pitt................14
The only set lost this year by 
eatty, the captain of the Tech team, 
as with Smith in the first Tech-Pitt 
ame, and with this record establish;d, the captain easily carries away!
individual championship. The 
redit for the winning team has been 
argely due to the able coaching of 
Colonel John C. W. Brooks, head of 
the- Military Division at Tech who 
lias been the coach of the Plaid play
ers. Colonel Brooks has played the 
speedy game for many years in the 
,rmy and upon his retirement from 
.ctive .service was the unbeaten 
'champion of Uncle Sam's fighting0
forces. Practically the entire Tech 
team will be back to Tech next year 
and will form their part of the chaniipion teams that are being formed at 
the Plaid school.
/SCIENCE SENIORS HOLD COMMENCEMENT BANQUET
Last Friday evening. In the Carnegie 
Jnion, the late Plebe Class of Science 
chool held its annual dance. In spite 
f the fact that Fate made Friday the 
hirteenth, and Nalure made it a 
tormy night, and the entire class had 
attended a funeral but four hours preious, the affair was atremendous suc:ess; exceeding by far even the iond3t hopes and expectations of that enrgetic and smiling trio, Byler, Keelan, 
nd Kime, who comprised the cornnittee. Due, to the threatening weathr the dance did not get under full 
way until nine oclock, but the orches
tra obligingly furnished the many 
couples who braved the elements in 
order to be on time, with several extra 
dances which were thoroughly enjoyed 
and appreciated. The Committee ex
perienced some slight inconvenience 
in the person of a Plebe from Design 
:School, who made his uninvited pres
ence conspicuous by appearing on the 
floor with his shirt sleeves rolled far 
above the elbows. This trivial inci-' 
dent was lost, however, in the maze 
if beautiful decorations that adorned 
;he Union (dancing floor) and ladies 
eception lobby on the second floor, 
he music and refreshments were ex:ellent, the result of having the best 
n their respective lines. Representaives of the two upper classes were 
here and unanimously expressed their 
pproval of the efficient manner 
vhich the dance was managed by the 
jommittee. One oclock brought the 
iffair to a close and rang the curtain 
down on the best dance that has ever 
been held in the Carnegie Union.
N. B.Too much credit cannot be 
iven to Jordy and Cannon, who gave 
out the programs and kept the large 
;rowd in perfect order.
TAU BETA PI HOLDS INITIATION BANQUET
Last Thursday evening, at the 
Sclienley Hotel, Tau Beta Pi held its 
initiation and banquet for the men 
elected during the school year of 1919, 
The following men were initiated:
W. H. Gillett 
J. G. Juergens 
C. D. Mills'
H. C. Nordfeldt 
M. S. Wadsworth 
K. K. Knaell 
E. F. Hirsch 
A. J. Kerr .
C. A. Stone
E. G. Stoy 
|Uarge number of the alumni mem- j) were present in addition to the 
chapter.
As a part of the great military 
movement that is extended through
out the more prominent of the Amer
ican educational institutions, the Car
negie Institute of Technology is play
ing its part, and three branches of the 
service have been installed at the 
Sclienley Park institution with a 
fourth in prospect at the opening of 
the Fall Term.
The branches of the service that are 
in full swing are the Engineer's Corps, 
the Signal Corps and a complete unit 
of the Field Artillery. The entire 
movement at the plaid institution is 
under the command of Colonel John C. 
W. Brooks, a veteran in the service of 
the country. Although Colonel Brooks 
was officially retired four years ago, 
after thirty years unbroken service, 
he is back in the harness to which he 
has grown so accustomed.
This unit , of the Field Artillery Is 
under the command of Colonel Leon 
R. Cole, who was recently decorated 
with the Croix de Guerre for gallantry 
In action. One hundred and thirtythree men from Carnegie Tech have 
already joined this unit and an author, 
ization has been received from the 
Adjutant General's office for recruiting 
.twenty rpgular army men for this 
service. Equipment has already ar
rived in the shape of six caterpillai 
tractors, still wearing their war-time 
camouflage coats of yellow, green, 
blue and red, and at all times of the 
day these juggernauts may be heard 
roaring their way through the campus 
grounds. More equipment for this 
unit is still to follow, fire control ap
paratus with the various telescopes, 
range finders, field glasses and tele
phones; radio equipment, horses and 
eight field pieces. Four three-inch 
guns, one 75 mm. American piece, one 
75mm. British piece, one 75mm. 
French piece, and one 155 mm, Ameri- j 
can gun. Ten trailers for road trans-j 
porfation are coming.
The unit of Engineers is under the J 
command of Major H. W. Holland, | 
who has just returned from overseas, 
where he spent fourteen months at the 
front with the 11th Engineers. Major 
Holland and his command were bri
gaded with the Third British Army before Cambria. Full equipment for this 
unit is already ordered and on the way. 
Among the equipment of the Engi
neers are complete .equipment for 
Pioneer Companies, rifles, packs, bay
onets and all the personal equipment 
for men to make trips lasting days. A 
36-inch searchlight unit has been or
dered, a complete section of a pon
toon tdain, complete demolition outflLs for the deslruction of buildinga, 
bridges and other points of military 
value. Elephant irons for construct
ing dugouts, barb wire, stakes, tool 
wagons and even typographical outfits 
for map making. Everything that goes 
to make up a complete unit of Engi
neers will be installed at the Sclienley 
Park Institute. Fifty-tw(V men have 
already enlisted in this arm of the 
service.
Although thirty-eight men have al
ready enlisted in the Signal Corps, no 
commander has yet been assigned by 
the War Department, but one is ex
pected in the near future. The equip
ment has been ordered, but is not yet 
shipped, and includes complete communicatior outfits, with portable field 
telephones; switchboards ^nd instru
ments; powerful radio outfits, T. P. S. 
for ground radios and the general at
tachments necessary for this arm of 
the service.
In the fall, there is strong probabil
ity that a motor transport unit will be 
formed, but so far the plans are only 
tentative.
Nineteen of the most prominent of 
the American educational institutions 
are in the great movement which wih 
embrace all forms of- military educa
tion. Each institution will teach 
certain number of branches. Among 
the other branches taught in other in
stitutions are Cavalry, Infantry, Coast 
Artillery, Ordnance, and probably 
aeronautical courses * will be given. 
The complete course will be for four 
years with summer camps of six 
weeks duration, twice during the 
course. Techs Engineers will proba
bly go to Camp Humphreys, Va., for 
the summer camp. Upon the comple
tion of the four years course success
fully, each man will be granted a com
mission as second lieutenant in the 
branch he has elected.
FOOTBALL SCHEDULE FOR NEXT YEAR IS GOOD
With the prospect of the biggest 
year in the history of Tech' football, 
we naturally like to think of what 
is going to happen. Sure enough we 
play W. & J.. Cornell, Pitt and some 
more, but that isnt the principal 
item at all. It is thisthe success 
of the team is up to you, Mr. Stu
dent, the Avhole outcome of the sea
son depends on your support. ,
All the men who have ever played 
football or who will learn, get out 
and give Coach Steffans all you 
have. The rest of the fellows be on 
deck anywhere at any time to help the 
team along; every night at practice, 
help the team men with their lessons, 
turn out strong for every game. 
Some of the old Tech spirit, thats 
all.
The following men of the 1917 
squad will be out at the first gong.
Football.
Captain "Vet Williams, Finley. 
Marshall, McFeaters, Levinson, Carey, 
Bloom, Lynn, Alexander, Kofed, Lusk, 
Good, Swift, Kramer, Henderson, 
Gare, Saylor and Hofman.
These men, who know Coach Stef
fans methods, will form a neucleus 
around which the host of new mater
ial will be woven, to run the best elev
en in the history of Tech. You, Mr. 
Student, are the man who can do it.
Schedule for 1919.
October *1Bethany at home.
October 11W. & J., at Washing
ton.
October ISCase, at home.
October 25Lehigh at home.
November 1Allegheny at home.
November 8Cornell at Ithaca.
November 22Pitt at v Forbes 
Field.
SOPHS OF M. M. D. HOLD CLASS PICNIC
DRAMA SCHOOL PRESENTING 
LAST OF YEARS PRODUCTIONS
On Tuesday, May 1, the Sophomore 
Class of M. M. D. held a picnic. The 
picnickers left school about 1 oclock 
and rode to the end.of the Lincoln avenue car line. Aftera few minutes 
walk they reached an ideal spot in the 
woods overlooking the Allegheny 
river. A spring, within a few minutes 
walk, added a great deal of comfort 
and pleasure to the outing, for usually 
water is the most difficult thing to se
cure at picnics. The girls gathered 
wood for a Are, over which they 
toasted marshmallows. A bountiful 
lunch was the main feature of the pic
nic. The remains of the feast were 
given to a fefr small boys and to one 
lone dog. A ball game and singing 
finished the evening. Everyone regrets 
that there will not be time for another 
one before school closes.
START TO BOOST THE CORNELL FOOTBALL GAME
Tech plays Cornell at Ithaca on 
November 8. A long way off to talk 
about it now you say, but there Is 
ionly five weeks of school before that 
date next fall, so we must start plan
ning now.
We want one hundred Tech men 
ito make the trip with the team. Here 
Us the dope. On two chartered Pull
man sleepersleave Pittsburgh Fri
day night, arrive in Ithaca Saturday 
morning, leave Itnaca that night 
after the game and arrive in Buffalo 
three hours later, spend all day Sun
day, up to midnight, at Buffalo or 
the Falls; leave at midnight and ar
rive in Pittsburgh seven-thirty Mon
day morning.
Some' trip, but you say it will set 
you back about two months on your 
books. Not at allit will cost ap
proximately twenty dollars, which in
cludes railroad fare and living 
aboard a Pullman (the same Pull
man) for three nights. Think it 
over and then start saving your pen
nies.
Arrangements will be made to ob
tain passes for those men who desire 
to go through any of the hydro-elec
tric plants at the Falls or the steamturbine plant at Buffalo. Combine a 
business and a pleasure trip. Boost 
the team, boost Tech and go to the 
Cornell game. Stop in and talk it 
over with A1 Heyl.
NEW SCHOLARSHIP OFFERED 
TO DISCHARGED SOLDIERS
j COMMENCEMENT ACTIVITIES 
AT M. M. D. ARE ANNOUNCED
The Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology Auxiliary of the American Red 
Cross recently made a gift of $128.65 
to the Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology for the purpose of establishing 
a scholarship for a student who has 
been honorably discharged from the 
Army, to be selected by the Scholar
ship Committee of the Institute. The 
gift represents the balance remaining 
in the contingent fund after the Aux
iliary completed its various activities 
in war service.
MILITARY DEPARTMENT TO DO BIG THINGS
'Tech had begun to look real peace
ful once more until the tractors ar 
rivred. These tractors are the first of 
the equipment on the way that will 
place the Tech Units on a firm basis. 
Field pieces will follow and within the 
next few days a full equipment of 
things military will appear as the accountrements of the three new units.
A real drive for recruits to the field 
artillery has begun. Ex-artillerymen 
are Avanted, and considerable In the 
way of concessions have been made to 
get the proper men. In addition to 
the regular $30.00 per month, which is 
the pay of the regular soldier, and the 
additional $3.00 monthly for re-enllstm-?nt, each man who enlists for duty 
ai 'Tech will receive $1.25 per day for 
food, and $23.00 per month for heat, 
quarters and light. All told, easly jobs 
are waiting for ex-artillerymen, with 
pay running over $90.00 per month. 
Authorization has been received from 
the Adjutant Generals office to enlist; 
20imen for this servico. Enlistment is 
for a period of one year, and while all 
enlisted men are under orders of the 
Federal Government and subject to 
call, still those who are recruited for 
service at Tech will no doubt, bo as
signed to Llie Institution for the period 
of their enlistment and only called 
out In the event of riots or other .In* 
|u\l disorders. Application may be 
made to Colonel John C. W. Brooks, 
the head of the Military Department 
at Tech, and If the applicant, passes 
the examination, a letter will bo issued 
to the Recruiting Officer, at 6-1! 
Smlthfield street, authorizing the on 
listment.
MINING ENGINEERING COURSESMAPPEO OUT
The Advisory Committee recently 
appointed by Dr. Arthur A. Ilamerschlag, President of the Carnegie In
stitute of Technology, to suporvlso the 
new school of mining engineering, 
who have mopped out two courses for 
the new school.
The first course will bo of four 
years duration and will meet all the 
needs of present-day requirements in 
coal mining. I-IIgh school graduates or 
those with equivalent education would 
be eligible.
The two-year course prepared will 
be open to those who have been work
ing in or about mines for a number of 
years and have made good as "un
derground men. In this course, ele
mentary work in necessary and essen
tial subjects will be taught, such as 
chemistry, physics, geology, metallur
gy, surveying and kindred subjects. 
Shop work will be given in electricity, 
forging, strength of materials, pipefitting, engines and boilers, pumps and 
compressors, and like subjects. Addi
tional commercial subjects will be 
taught, such as bookkeeping, account
ing, contracts, salesmanship, 1 trans
portation, overhead charges, estimates 
and general works management, as 
well as supplementary courses in 
state mining laws, compensation insur
ance, labor employment problems, 
welfare and safety, mine rescue and 
first aid work.
Financial assistance will be extend
ed by mining companies to deserving 
men or boys in mining communities 
who desire to obtain scholarships in 
mining engineering.
On Thursday. June 12, the College 
Club gave a tea in honor of the Sen
iors. Saturday. Juue 14, the Freshman 
Class of M. M. D. held a tea in honor 
of the Senior Class in the Recreation 
Hall at M. M. D. A musical program 
was presented by members of the 
Freshman class.
On Thursday. June 12, the girls of 
the Household Economics Department 
and the honorary members of the 
class were hostesses at a buffet lunch
eon in the recreation hall in honor of 
the graduating class.
A Senior outing at the school farm 
will take place June 23.
The class pageant will be presented 
June 26. Following the pageant a re
ception in honor of the Seniors will be 
given by Director and Mrs. Hamerschlag and Dean Breed.
The baccalaureate sermon will be 
delivered Sunday, June 22.
QUALIFICATION DAY CELEBRATED AT M. M. D.
NEW LABORATORY TO BE ERECTED ON CAMPUS
A now type of furnaoe, designed to 
eliminate the smoko and wasteful com
bustion prevalent In the usual type, 
will bo tested in a laboratory bolng 
erected near the site of the labor
atory was obtained through the joint 
instrumentality of the Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology and the United 
States Bureau of Mines, It lies ad
joining the Baltimore &, Ohio Railway 
tracks, between Machinery Hall and 
the Power Plant of the Unltod States 
Bureau of Mines.
About $10,000 will bo expended In 
the erection and equipment of the 
laboratory, which will bo about 5x40 
feet In size and will bo equipped with 
a 200 TI, P. water tube boiler and the 
new type of furnace known as the 
Stephen's Automatic Furnace, Soalos 
and tanks will be provided and the in
stitute will li\rnlsh a largo part, of the 
necessary toclinlcul li\tiLrumonts.
No grate hriiV wlll fjo unecl In the 
new furnace, so there will bo no op
portunity for clinkers to form. While 
only the material capable ot roCractlng 
the heat will be exposed to the tem
perature of the furnace, still It Is not a 
powdered coal furnace. The process 
of combustion Is such that closo regu
lation can bo socured and the temper
ature of combustion Is under absolute 
control. This permits the use of the 
furnace In other places bosldes boilers. 
Practically all grades of coal, especial
ly bituminous, may bo burned efficient
ly and without smoko. The furnace Is 
so arranged that It can be used for 
gas or coal Interchangeably and a few 
minutes wdrk makes this change, 
Phis will be especially helpful, when It. 
Is arranged for gas and the ' pressure 
gets low; within a short time It may 
bo convertod Into a coal-burning fur
nace. Due to the absence of metal 
that may bo bo affected by the heat, 
the cost of th upkeep of a furnace of 
this typo Is materially less, and tho 
first cost as well as the cost of Installa
tion are no greater than with a fur
nace of the usual typo.
Work has already begun In tho oroctlon of the new building and the ex
periment work will bo conducted 
largely under the direction of Profes
sor Thomas G. Estop, of the Mechan
ical Engineering Department of tho 
Carnegie Institute of Technology, who 
Is Acting Consulting Engineer of the 
Stephens Engineering Company, who 
are developing the new furnace.
Natural Handicap.
All of us get to talk all we want to 
mt few are able to say all they want 
> '^'flinnc'e.
The feature of the closing of the 
dramatic season at the School of 
Drama will be the production of five 
new plays, each written by a student In 
the school. The scenes of these plays, 
which are all modern in character, are 
cast in odd spots of the world. One 
in the Russian settlement of New York 
City and another in Central America.
Mechanical Club 
Banquet
I
 JUNE 21st
LINCOLN CLUB 222 CRAFT AVENUE
PROP. TRINKS WILL BE THERE
'
CHANGES IN FACULTY OF PSYCHOLOGY DIVISION
The following changes in the faculty 
of the Division of Applied Psychology 
havt been announced: Lieutenant Col
onel Walter V. Bingham, executive sec. 
retary of the Committee on Classifica
tion of Personnel in the Army, return
ed to the Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology on March first. He has been 
promoted to Dean of the Division of 
Applied Psychology, which includeb 
the departments of psychology, voca
tional, educational and personnel ad
ministration, and with which are affil
iated the Bureau of Salesmanship Re
search and the Research Bureau for 
Retail Training.
Lieutenant Colonel Edward K. 
Strong, Jr., Ph. D. (Columbia), for
merly professor of educational psy
chology at the George Peabody Col
lege for Teachers, has' been appointed 
professor of vocational education and 
has already assumed his new duties as 
head of the department for the train
ing of vocational teachers.
Major C. S. Yoakum, Ph. D, (Chi
cago), formerly director of the psy
chological laboratory at the Univer
sity of Texas, has left the psychologi
cal section of the Surgeon General's 
Department to become associate pro
fessor of applied psychology.
Qualification Day passed off at M. 
M. D. this year on June 13, and was 
characterized by much noise, many 
pigtails and quantities of grease paint 
of all hues. Owing to tho superior 
numbers of the Freshmen, It was 
necessary for the Sophomores to make 
up In quality all that they lacked in 
quantity. At the beginning of school, 
each Freshman was presented with 
the Sophomore colors in cheesecloth, 
and these were tied 011 the pigtails, 
curls, etc. Some very artistic hair
dressings were in evidence, but, sad 
to relate, did not at all resemble tlu 
beautiful ones usually worn by our 
Freshmen. At noon, grease paint was 
added to complete the artistic effect 
and the result was startling, to say 
tho least. The Freshmen were then 
assembled in the court in front of 
school, and entertained the audience. 
Songs, yells, dances, and parades 
formed a part of the varied program. 
After the hazing given them by tho 
Sophomores, the Freshmen undoubted
ly feel well quallfiod to take their 
place as Sophomores next year and 
acquit themselves nobly. 
TENTH ANNUAL REUNION DF 
INITIAL GRADUATING CLASS
During commencement woolc tho 
first; class to ever leave tho Margaret 
Morrison School will nold Its tenth 
annual reunion. Of tho -12 girls who 
graduated but three lmve died, and 
one of those Is on Americas honor 
rollHarriot, Ellis died at tho homo 
ot' her sister, Mrs. Robert Anderson 
of Oxford, England, from momlngltls 
contracted while doing canteen work 
at tho front In Franco. Somo odd 
statistics are furnished by tills first, 
class. Twenty-one of this class are 
wed and trotting In double harness, 
those twenty-one have twenty-foul* 
children. Seven moro are teaching, 
six hold secretarial positions, ojio Is 
n dt'slgnor one a mL.1" y * '"j\
and throo are at homo.
SCIENCE FRESHMEN HOLD ANNUAL DANCE
Tho Science Senior class hold their 
commencement banquet last Wednes
day at tho Fort Pitt Hotol,
Tho officers of tho 1911) Class are 
among the best known men In tho 
School of SclencA. Francis J. Nuttall, tho president, Is a Pittsburgh 
boy, Is a meniTier of tho /ela Lambda 
Epsilon fraternity, of the honorary 
fraternity, Delta Skull, Is the man
ager of tho 1919 Tech tennis team, 
was manager of last year's Tech foot
ball team, besides being a member of 
the Science Senate and the Science 
Smoker Club, as well as Lreusuror 
of tli0 Junior Prom and a member of 
last year's Thlrstle staff. Charles 
Iloban, tho vice president of tho 
class Is better known to tho student 
body as "Pat. His homo In Naples, 
New York, Is a member of Woodlawn 
Club. "Pat has played In the out
field all year for tho Tech basebnli 
team and Is a good man with Lho 
bat. Weston II. Gillett, the treasur
er, Is a Buffalo man, a chemical en
gineer. He Is also a member of Tau 
Beta PI. He Is president. ,of the 
"Buffalo Club In the Institution. The 
secretary of the class Is Henry H. 
Blau of Dayton, Ohio. Blau is an
other with a long list of achieve
ments In the Institution. He has 
been class secretary for the past 
three years. Is 'a member of Tau 
Beta Pi, was secretary of the 1918 
Chemists club, was athletic editor 
of both The Tartan and the Thistle 
in 1918, as well as a member of the 
Governing Board of the Dormitory 
Association In 1917, and at present 
plays the baritone horn In the 
School Band.
The committee In charge of the 
banquet are C. D. Mills of Montclair, 
N. J., E. Y. Davidson of Washington,
D. C., and C. M. Greiner of Norris
town, Pa. We are only sorry that 
space forbids the publishing of the 
achievements of all tue seniors. Some 
of Techs best men leave the school 
this year and their absence will be 
felt.
A POEM
(Tune: Goodbye Glrla, I'm Throuqh.)
Goodbys books, I'm through,
For several months I hope,
With every one of you,
And all your far-fetched dope.
I'm going to leave you all.
And have a little life.
So then till I come back this fall, 
Goodbye books, Goodbyo books, 
Goodbys books, I'm through.
J. B. Moore.


---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOWEDNESDAY ' JUNE 18, 1919
1918. "Pat Hoban, wno is a Senior | 
this year, will not be back.
At center Captain Homer Scoops  
Carey easily has a cinch on the posi-1 
tion by his star playing, but "Blooey" ! 
Foxen is always lurking in the rear, 
ready to jump into the captains shoes i 
at the first misstep.
The tentative schedule, so far ar-| 
ranged, includes some of the best j 
teams in Collegiate circles, and is one 
that should try the mettle of the Tech j 
aggregation. On January 2, the Techites start the ball a rolling in a big j 
clash with the star team from Prince-! 
ton University. A week later two j 
games with Westinghouse are sched- j 
uled on Tech floor. On January 16 
Tech and the University of West Vir-1 
ginia will mix it up, while on January | 
23 and 24, Tech makes a trip through j 
West Virginia. On January 28, Tech j 
and Pitt will meet on Pitt floor. On i 
January 30, Grove City is booked for j 
slaughter on Tech floor.
On February6 and 7, Tech will make { 
a trip to meet Allegheny and Grove j 
City in their respective bailiwicks, j 
While on the day preceding'St. vHlen-j 
tines Day, Tech and her old rival, W. i 
& J., will come together in Washing
ton, Pa.
On February 19-20-21 the Kilties will 
make their Eastern tour. and will 
clash with Rutgers and either Lehigh 
or Princeton, the games for the last 
two have not been definitely sched
uled. February 25, the strong West 
Virginia Wesleyan team comes to 
Pittsburgh for a set-to and are fol
lowed on February 2S by Penn State 
for the same purpose. Rutgers will 
be the Tech opponent on either March 
5 or 6, and the season will officially 
close with a jamboree with Pitt, which 
will take place on March 13 on the 
Tech floor.
Manager M. F. Yelle has been pre
paring a very carefully selected sched
ule and the efforts have all been along 
the lines of providing Tech with foemen worthy of her steel. It is not yet 
known whether Coach Bianchi will re
turn to Tech, but if he does, lie will 
have the best selection of material I 
ever at the hands of a Tech basket 
ball coach. Watch out for Tech in 
11(20.
Eln (liaranP. LUDEBUEHL & SON ,
SHOES UNO HOSIERY ...........PEI ill FRMSTpj
Footprints Lead to Detection
Published every week by undergraduate o the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology.
Entered In the poslofllce of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
f)C the copyCanaiia, $1.25
The standing of a man is as often* 
as not told by his footwearif he iscareless of that, he's apt to be negli
gent of more important things. Ifyou will buy your shoes here, you may 
be certain of looking all right; feeling, 
all right and impressing others with 
the fact that you are all right. Our 
Shoes are built by some of the most 
representative Shoe Manufacturers in the world.
Tcrronce AllsworthEditor-In-Chief
Phone, Hazel 9425.
Buulncsn Manager
Athlctic Editor 
W. J. Ravenscroft 
Staff Photographer 
William M. Myler, Jr.
M. Ni. C; S. Assistants 
Edith Braden 
Frances Roberts 
Hazel ShaelTer 
Helen Young 
BUSINESS 
Assistants 
John G. Keel an 
Martin 1. Cohen 
Circulation Manager 
H. G. Atchley
EDITORIAL 
Managing Editors. 
J. J. Rudislll.
Assistant Editora. 
A. C. May.
G. A. Willard.
School Editors
M. M. C. S.................Margaret Sondheim
Science ................................. K. K. Knaell
Industries ..............................H. W. Lynn
Design ..................................... G. T. Miller
Night ..................................... Julius Foster
TARTAN OFFICE.........................................
Oakland 
Community HouseRoom 162, Design
Hours2:00 to 4:00 Wednesdays. 
4.30 to 8:00 Thursdays.3004 FORBES STREET
You are urged to make use of the 
POOL ROOM 
READING ROOM REST ROOM
House open from 9 A. M.11 P. M. 
EVERYBODY WELCOME
The Editor-in-chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the Manag
ing Editor for the make up.
All business communications should be sent to the Business Manager. 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported 
at once.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the signature to be withheld if desired.
All news items ~.(1st be in the student postoiilce, Central Building, before 
noon on Saturdays.
When you go home this summer, think about Tech, talk Tech 
and Work for Tech. Tell your friends about Tech athletics and bring 
them here and get; them interested in our various sports. Every stu
dent here almost surely lias a high school friend that is a good athlete. 
Bring him around next fall.
The first practical commercial school of aeronautics has been 
started at Chicago. It is a pioneer of its kind and offers courses to 
men "who have had the proper preliminary training.
' The school is going to run a summer term for college men and 
unquestionably some Tech men. could enter. This may be a pleasant 
as well as a practical vacation to those who can afford it.
The interesting feature of the school is its belief in the future of 
air craft passenger servicc. They mention the fact that an air line is 
soon to be established between Chicago and New York, and since it is 
backed by some of Chicagos most reliable citizens we can believe 
whnt they say. The Tartan has some literature it! any one wishes it.
In accordance with the general plan 
of research work begun by the Car
negie Institute of Technology, Samuel 
E. Dibble, head of the Heating and 
Ventilating Department of this insti
tution, has been designated by the 
National Society of Heating and 
Ventilating Engineers as a member of 
the commission, to administer the af
fairs ana carry on the research work 
taken up by this society in conjunc
tion with the Federal Government 
along these lines. Last February, Mr. 
Dibble was appointed by the Engi
neers Society of New York sis chair
man in charge of the Pittsburgh dis
trict to investigate the heating and 
ventilating question in this district. 
The results of his investigation were 
turned over t;o the National Society.
In t he meantime, the .Federal Gov
ernment had discovered when they 
erected cantonments that no basic 
data on heating and ventilating was 
available, so when the National So
ciety agreed to appropriate $25,000 
for research work along these lines, 
and won the deciding set, 7 to 5. 
the Government quickly agreed to pro
duce a like amount to push the in
vestigation. This work is taken up in 
conjunction with the Bureau of Mines, 
who are pushing the investigation of 
mine ventilation while the general 
committee is working along the lines 
of building and industrial research.
The director of the Research Bu
reau is John B. Allen, Dean of the En
gineering School of the University of 
Minnesota. Associated with Mr. Dib
ble on the general committee in charge 
of the work and the operation of the 
bureau are J. B. McCall, a consulting 
engineer of Detroit, Mich.; Perry 
West, engineer of the Board, of Edu
cation of Newark, N.-J.; M. M.-Hart, 
secretary of the Prentice Company of 
Chicago; Dr. N. V. Hill, aerologist of 
the Board of Health of Chicago:
| DO YOU DANCE?
!! DANC'NG LESSONS CLASS AND PRIVATE
S JACQUES DANCING ACADEMY
|{ CRAIG AND FORBES BELL PHONE
1 BEGINNERS CLASSES MONDAY A>JD FRIDAY
H ADVANCED CLASS WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY
The days spout, by tlic Heating and Vtilating Engineers of 
America in oqraonfton lieie, will long lie remembered. Tuesday even
ing they were enl.erlained hy the Drama School, Wednesday they 
v<mi a lea by Ilio girls and faculty of M. .11. 1). On Thursday 
Ihcy were guests of Mr. Speller, metallurgical engineer for the Na
tional Tubo Company and Hr, Aldcrdiee of Ilio same company, on a 
boat ride up the Monongahclii. 'In the evening Professor Ilalfat of 
tho Bureau of Mines gave a lecture on the ventilating of submarines. 
The gases in tho submarines wore killing the crows and 00 committee 
of this society started investigations and the government adopted 
1 heir findings.
One of tho biggest acoomplishmenls of the convention was the 
establishment of a permanent board in the Bureau of Alines in charge 
oil John K. Allen, formerly of tho University of Minnesota, where he 
was Dean of Bngineoryig and Aehitccturo.
Mr. Dililile of tho School of Industries was responsible for tho 
convention being hold here and was res]....siblo for tlieif entertain
ment. lie is resident reprsentative for tlie.society.
Another Ihing of interest, is the fact, that this is the (irsi; of the 
great engineering societies oli America to concentrate all their efforts 
in research at one place and maintain a permanent board.
PAGGETW
436 SEVENTH AVE. 
All Kinds of Batteries 
Repaired and RechargedOETKhE
FOR HIRE
Also Complete Stock of Tuxedos. Cutaways, Prince Al
berts, etc. Evening Wear Accessories.
WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT CO.
6001-6002-6003 JENKINS ARCADE 
Bell Phone Grant 1587. Night PhoneNeville 1536-W.
liiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiim
DONE
With tliis, the last issue of (he present year, the present staff 
turns the paper over 1o abler hands. Ill spite of difficulties that we 
1'ccl no other staff has had to face, the Tartan has been published 
every week, and the standard has been as high as it was possible to 
lceep.it. The practical difficulty was that of finance, ably cared for 
by the present business manager. Aside from this difficulty was tlie 
added trouble of getting news. It seemed that in spite of all that hap
pened, no one had time to write anything up. But past is past and 
let it lie forgotten. We did our best.
The next editor will be assisted hy a staff chosen from the candi
dates for the various positions, and the present editorial staff having 
completed their work, wish them all possible success, and the editor 
congratulates the man that follows him upon his opportunity to serve 
the student body -of C. I. T.
wiimiuiNuiiiDiiiniiiiiiiiiuiiitiiiiniiniiiiiniuiniiiaiiiHniniiiuiniiiiiininiiniiiiimMuuiiaoiiuniiiiiiniitniiiiiiigiiiainiioraiiiuiuiiiininiiiiiviiuuiiiiummiuiiinQuniiiminnaiiia 
There will be a football meeting held in Koom 209 Science
on Thursday, June 12, at 4:10 P. M. for the purpose of getting 
acquainted with the fellows who expect to come out for foot
ball, so we will be able to send them information concerning 
fall training, during the summer.
.................................................................................................................................
NEXT YEAR
Prospects are bright for every activity next year. Every week 
some new material Joj the football team shows up and adds to our 
chance for an excellent team. Basket Ball and track arc the same 
and Wagner will have a nucleus of old men around which to build 
a team. Tennis, likewise. '
The rifle team will be in operation. Twenty-six sub-calibered 
army rifles are here. The indoor gallery will he in Langley Lab., and 
the outdoor range at Wilkinsburg. This form of sport is interesting 
to many not active in other affairs. Tech ought to have a good rifie 
team and the Tartan hopes this new activity proves successful.
SUMMER QUARTER
A special bulletin containing description of courses for the summer quarter has, been issued and 
can be obtained at the Registrars Office. The following subjects are.offered:
DIVISION OF SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING
Freshman Year: Chemistry, Mathematics, Projections and Mechanical Drawing, English, French,
German.
Sophomore Year: Physics (Mechanics, Electricity and Magnetism, Heat), Mathematics, Descriptive Geometry, Mechanics.
Junior Year: Physics (Light), Mechanics.
Special: Elements of Structural Engineering.
DIVISION OF THE ARTS
Piano, Organ, Violin, Violoncello, Technique of Orchestral Instruments.
DIVISION OF INDUSTRIES
Mathematics, Chemistry, Drawing (Mechanical, Architectural, Structural), Machine Shop, Electri
cal Equipment and Construction, Sanitary Equipment and Installation, Automobile Maintenance and Operation.
The summer quarter begins June 30. The first term ends August 8; the second, September 12.It is urged that all students, who wish to take work in the summer, fill 
out the regular application blank (Form 125) in the Registrars Office immediately, in order to expedite the arranging of schedules.
Inquiries concerning further details may be addressed to Mr. Bright, Registrar, or to Dr. Ihrig, 
Director of the Summer Quarter.
Unlque Trophy.
The Brlt'sh voynl simulimi whlclv 
Illls tho con (or of tho eolllng of a room 
at Anna polis Is suiti to he th only 
Brltlsh royal standard hi tho possoslon tu a forelgn natimi. It was talcon 
nt tho capturo of York, Toronto, hy 
Commodore Cluumcoy and General 
Montgomery, in ISI8.
Those Dear Glrls.
NCU_'T understand May Cutting re
marked that 1 looked so much like 
Miss llonmley-Hltoh. Isnt that awful? 
HolloYes, shes always knocking 
Miss Uoamloy-lfltch, booauso piles 
jealous of her."
A Cure-All 100 Ycnrs Old.
The Indian "swallow stick" is *100 
years old. Tn Indian ceremonies it was 
customary for the priest to thrust the 
stick down his throat, causing the re
liction. thought by the natives to purge 
Jiim of all impurities.
Counter Question
is..-"How do I know yo,. . not 
marrying me for my money? He 
"If it comes to that, how do I know 
you are not marrying me to reform 
me?-Boston Transcript.

---------------------------------------------------

!
DYNAMOS STOLEN BY THE GERMANS AND RECOVERED
A dance is to be given by the Jun 
ior Class of Margaret Morrison on 
Saturday, June 21. The class is also 
planning for a picnic before school 
closes.
Oh, the horse ran around with his 
(ail on the groundschool days 
Yankee Doodle., etc., was the fea
ture music rendered by the Nossokoff Orchestra, at the Avo Club barn 
dance.
The dance was held Friday, Juno
G. at West Hoffman, Pa., on the But
ler Short Line, and was attended by 
about lifty couples who were con
veyed there by special car. The
ladies put their wraps in the farm
house, the men threw their straws
amongst the other straw, the gas 
engine was set in motion, and Nossokoff set everybody else in motion. 
"We just couldn't keep our felt still, 
an we had a durn god time.
(Some persons didnt come be
cause they heard it wah going to be 
a shocking affair, but there was no 
danger as the wires were well in
sulated.) There was a premature
intermission because the gas engine 
got overheated trying to keep time 
with the music, but nobody seemed 
to mind that, got overheated taoinnn 
to mind that. Quite the contrary 
lots of trees and grass an every
thing.
The car started for Pittsburgh at 
1:15 a. m., and the guests left the 
farm, full of good humor and sweet 
cider.
Those mosquitoes on the car had 
more of a bite than the cider.
uVLonroeP A AGETWOKWhBEGGIN
CARRNE
Dr. Arthur A. Hamerschlag will de
liver the commencement address be
fore the Columbus Academy for Boys 
in Columbus, Ohio, on June 10. He 
will speak on "Premium on Brains 
and Ability. On the following day, 
Dr. Hamerschlag will deliver the 
commencement address before the 
graduating class of Grove City Col
lege.
Kh AB ODY- v Co : INC-. TROY-N Y
mELLEFIELD SHOE 1 
REPAIRING |
I / FORBES STREET 
f j Opposite Carnegie Library. Gjj
-High class work done while you ij1
/ wait. M
/ I. SCHWARTZ 1
LOW PRICES TO TECH g
STUDENTS 1
Give us a trial. H
The Junior and Senior classes of 
the Arts and Crafts department 
made a trip last week to Cleveland 
where they attended an exhibition of 
arts and crafts work. While in 
Cleveland they visited studios and 
high schools where arts and crafts 
are taught. Miss Erma 3. Hewitt, 
professor in the Arts and Crafts 
department, Miss Ciara G. Davidson 
and Miss Ayrlte E. Morris of the A.
& C. department, were in charge of 
the party. The girls in the party 
were Misses Helen Savard, Dorthy 
Davis, Helen He will, -Edith Hobs and 
Irma Friedman.
CHURCHESHere is a view of a vast haul made by the. Germans. Thousands of dynamos which they had stolen from Bel
gian and French factories were recovered by the allies. They were taken from various places where the Germans 
had stored them, hoping to be able to get them into Germany, and deposited in this dump in Belgium to be identi
fied and returned to their rightful owners.riT. PAULS CATHEDRAL 
I Fifth Ave. and Craig St.
I Masses: 6:30, 8:00, 9:00, 10:00 and
I 1:00 A M. on Sundays and Holy 
(Days.
( Vespers on Sundays at 7:30 P. M.
\ Pew 5S Middle Aisle for Tech Stu
dents.
A dinner was given last evening 
at the Pittsburgh Athletic Association 
in honor of Daniel Clark Long, asso
ciate professor of English. Professor 
Long is leaving the Institute at the 
close of the session for a vacation 
that will last probably until next 
April. The dinner was tendered to 
Professor. Long by some of his col
leagues at the Institute where he has 
taught for the past eight years.
Mr. Long received his A. B. degree 
at Harvard in 1910 and came to the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology the 
following year. Before coming to 
Pittsburgh he was connected with the 
editorial staff of the New York Even
ing Globe. Mr. Longs reputation as 
a writer of verse has been steadily 
growing during the past few yeais.
RECONSTRUCTION WORK IN LETTERMAN HOSPITAL
j Third United 
I Presbyterian Church
'Shady and Northumberland Avenues
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. 
Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M. and 
1:00 P. M.\ Young Peoples Service, 7:00 P. M. 
iBrief and Warm-Hearted Messages. 
/ A cordial welcome to all.
Wrote Hymn While at Sea.
Lead, Kindly Light, one of the 
most beaytlful and inspiring hymns, 
was written by Doctor Newman, when 
lie was becalmed In an orange boat In 
the Straits of Bonifacio, In 1GISTU
Plants for Desert Regions.
Bottle bushes from Australia, be
longing to Calllstemon, MetrosUleros 
and allied species are among the 
shrubs standing the greatest amount 
of heat with a minimum water supply 
splendid plants for desert regions.Grace ChurchThe Arts and Crafts Department 
will hold their annual three day ex
hibit on June 17, IS, 19 at the Mar
garet Morrison Division. Thursday 
will be Society Day, Friday will be 
reserved for the teachers and the 
parents of the students while Satur
day is open day both in the after
noon and evening.
The exhibit will consist of the 
work of the girls done in the Arts 
and Crafts Department during the 
past year. There will be block print
ing and weaving, pottery, jewelry, 
metal workplaces of both needle and 
pillow design, bookbinding ami bas
ketry.
(Reformed)
IBAYARD and DITH RIDGE STREETS 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister 
SERVICES:
Sunday School9:45 A. M.
' Morning Worship11 A. M. 
/Christian Endeavor7 P. M. 
Popular Evening Services at 7:45. 
Sermons for Head and Heart. 
Hearty Welcome for AH.
{ TRANSITS AND LEVELS 
t ALL SUPPLIES FOR THE 
[ DRAFTING ROOM
One (/f the methods used In the reconstruction of wounded at this big San Francisco hospital Is massaging of tlio 
limbs and body. The photograph shows nurses doing the massaging. This Is one of the best-equipped government 
hospitals In the United States and is located at the Presidio.BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN X 
CHURCH 
Bellefield and Fifth Avenues  
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D., * 
Minister. ?*
Preaching Services 11 and 8. $
Sunday school at 10. 
Christian Endeavor at 7.
We want the Tech boys to attend our services and learn to 
know us as the congregation of y 
Friendly People." A hearty X 
welcome awaits you.
BETTER THAN A HAMMOCKDECORATED FOR SAVING 57 YANKEES
THE WATCH ON THE RHINE
I Engineers Equipment, Inntru-I
* ment of Precision, Blue Print 
and Brown Print Papero nnd 
Cloths.
! B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
120 SIXTH STREET
Revised Version.
(Copyright, 1918, by iDdgar A. Guest.) 
The voice, now very like a squeal, 
Which tried to ape a thunder peal, 
Now whimpers oer the Holland line: 
Who guards today my stream divine?
Chorus:
Oh, craven Bill, weve heard you 
whine.1
Firm stand the Yanks to watch the 
Rhine.
ISCENSION EPISCOPAL CHURCH 
llsworth Avenue and Neville Street 
DR. WYATT BROWN Rector 
PR. ROSS R. CALVIN, Assistant.
I Sunday Services, 8:00 a. m., 11:00 
! m. and 8:00 p. m.
College Mens Bible Class at 10:00,
1 by Dr. Calvin.
All Students Genuinely Welcome.
3/QMS/3cUI9ii!/il/SS/iL,JiilJiiJiel/S/niiQi/SlcI/in/S/iDiGi^ I 
;i Studonto Wclcotrio !
FRED SUDDABYS 
CAFETERIA 
BUREAU OF MINES BLDG. ,
11 A. M. to 2 P. M.
Evory school day.
Groat Eato at 
THE SCHENLEY LUNCH 
;; FORBES AND CRAIG STS. J 
Fred Suddaby, Propr.
So long as we possess a gun.
Along its banks no single Hun 
Shall strut or let his bosom swell.: 
Well guard your sacred landmark well,
Chorus:
Dear Fatherland. Jack Pershings line 
Of Yankee troops will watch the 
Rhine.
TYPEWRITERS AND 
ADDING .MACHINES
All makes sold, rented and 
repaired; allowing rental to ap
ply on purchase.
Underwoods Our 
Specialty
Written guarantee with each 
machine. Victor and Fox 
agency.FORT PITT 
TYPEWRITER CO.
428 FOURTH AVENUE 
Near Post Office 
\ Phone Court 866.
R. SIEDLE & SONS Jewelers and Silversmiths 
518 WOOD STREET Pittsburgh 
Unbreakable Watch Crystals
The Hun has given up the ghost, 
Pulled down his flag and' ceased to 
boast,  *
And now of him theres not a sign 
For thirty miles beyond the Rhine.
The bed spring on which the mer
chant sailor sleeps aboard United 
States shipping board vessels Is of the 
latest mesh type, and Is contained In n 
pipe frame, without open joints which 
might harbor vermin. This frame 
can readily -be taken out on deck for 
painting or scrubbing.
Chorus:
Dear Fatherland, great luck is thine, 
To have the Yankees watch the Rhine.
Major General Lewis decorating Frederick Bernard, quartermaster In the 
French navy, for having saved 57 Yank soldiers, who were on board a vessel 
struck by a torpedo. The American Distinguished Service medal was pinned 
on the breast of the sailor in the presence of an assemblage of American and 
French officers and men in. Paris.
Our oath resounds, the river flows, 
And ovfer it Old Glory, glows.
The stream is free and looking fine, 
And all is lovely on the Rhine.
WALL PAPER 
Wholesale and Retail 
Books furnished Paperhangers 
and Dealers.
Picture Framing a Specialty 
3618 FIFTH-AVENUE 
At Atwood
Chorus:
Oh, Fatherland, just fall in line 
And watch the Yankees watch the 
Rhine.
Providence Journal
vENhhC-O A.EO
----------for----------
OChAN ArrAhTO
PAYING TRIBUTE Tfl LIEUTENANT ROOSEVELT
Tf your fountain pen is in need o 
repairs, if you need a new, satisfactory 
pen or eversharp pencil, stationery, 
dance programs, favors, special felt 
goods or Tech recognition pins, call 
at SINGER PEN & GIFT SHOP In 
Jonklns Arcade.Adv.
HE HALLER BAKERY
3610 FORBES STREET 
IROQUOIS BLOCK
On Thursday afternoon the Y. W.
C. A. of the Margaret Morrison Divisvious, the affair was a tremendous sucnology held a farewell meeting in 
honor of the Seniors of the School who 
re graduating this year. Tea and 
cakes were served.
GET YOUR HAIR CUT 
----------at the----------McMAHON BROS.
PRINTERS AND SILK BADGE 
MAKERS 
240 DIAMOND STREET 
Below Wood Street. 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Bell Court 4553 
FLAGS, BANNERS AND 
PENNANTS
Harold L. Lang, Assistant Professor 
of Biology of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology is away on a vacation 
with his family at his summer home in 
Provincetown, on Cape Cod, Mass.
NEAREST TO TECH
Cor. Craig and Forbes
j FPED FARGEL, Proprietor. 
Nearest and Best Laundry 
Agency.
; M J'llOlO I> KW/''//, \Vcirn Nwpp>r tJnl'iiumnimniiiiiuiiuiiiiiiiimnjiiiiuinuiinnuiinmiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiQiiv] 
THESE SMALL 
SPACESPierpont, Siviter & Co 
PRINTERS 
ENGRAVERS
Exclusive Stationery 
119 Shady Avenue
General Baron do Berkelrn saluting the grave of Limit. Quentin ltooso* 
velt in the name of the mothers of France on Mothers day.
CONDENSATIONS In 1018 ,nor,! th"n 'io.ooo.ooo.noo------- cigarettes wore made In the United
Maxim bullet weighs Just one States.
The first oil company In Kentucky 
cigar makers of the Dnlted of which the stockholders arc all 
rolled 9,000,800,224 cigars lo women, has been organized at Owens
The
ounce;
The
Stated
1917.
i 11!/See Business Manager

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE TARTANWEDNESDAY, JUNE 18, 191
3
OF pj pJ i
OAKLAND EXPRESS AND 
.TRANSFER COMPANY
Bell Phones 578 and 9169 
8chcnlcy P. & A. 1092-R 
226 ATWOOD STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Household Goods Moved, 8tored, 
Packed and Shipped.
'in/ii3i3/t^in/iI!/5/2/t3/cl/S/3/i2/i3/i!/c/i3/2/5/@JS/in/Sit5i3i
oaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa-aaaaaaaaaaaaaaat
THESE SMALL 
SPACES
PAY
See Business Manager ; |
PPPPPPPAPPPPPPPPPPPPAPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPA
HtaaaSaSLtaaaaaaaYtSaaaaaaaSaaaaUaUUhhhhhhhh;aaaaaaaaaaaataaaaaaFBollSclicnloy 381)
'MISS OLEARY
(Formerly with J. E. T. Shuninn)
HLY ,PBVJIJ.18B9VI8IJ. 
PDMIIAMn mid Men Clothe, Carpet, YR UtiifM, PortiereWork GunranUjad and Turned Out on YBR Short Notice.Will call for all prciiKlnir and cleimliiir ; ] at Frat IIADDaAfU
3033 FORBES STREET (Oakland) U PITTSBURGH, PA.
 [VScllon
X:< National
X
il: Bank |
X
I PITTSBURGH |
I Smithfield Street, X 
Fifth & Oliver Avenues,t, X
:: Capital-------$6,00C 000 'k
I Surplus------$4,000,000 |
:j: Resources Over
!; $125,000,000 I
\ FRATERNITY NOTES |
OPHELEUM
The fifth annual dance of the fra
ternity was held Friday night at the 
Twentieth Century Club. Supper wan 
nerved in the blue room and the 
table adorned with red carnation 
and fern, Brother and Mr. C. B. 
Connelley were present as chaperons.
During the week-end the following 
hr other n were guests' at the house: 
Paul L. A. Kaiser recently dis
charged as an ensign In the navy; 
Francis Wood of Wheeling, W. Va.; 
Francis Steele of Batavia, N. Y.; 
Louis Mansfield, en route to his home 
in Cedar Rapids, la,, after serving 
with the .18th Eng. abroad.
PHI EPSILON PI
On Thursday evening, June 12, the 
annual Senior banquet, tendered by 
the Juniors, was held at the Lincoln 
Club. It turned out to be the great
est reunion ever held by the chap-j 
ter, every alumnius and former ac-' 
tive member within a radius of llfty 
miles being present, including sever-al f raters returned from overseas. 
The graduates tills year Include M.
D. Goldstein, P. Friedman, I. S. Stark,]; 
N. Robin and R. Finkelhorif they: 
liass their exams.
SUMMER SURVEYING LAMP!
Friday, the 13th, proved to be an 
unlucky day for our sister chapter 
at Pitt, for on that day the Phi ten
nis tea,m, in a match on Zeta's court, 
gave them some pointers in the art 
of tennis. The final score was 5 to
1. The Phi team consisted of Slutrove, Drebbire, Levine and Cohen.
The chapter takes great pleasure 
in announcing the initiation, on June 
22, of Mr. 1. L. Giffen of this city, 
as an honorary member. Mr. Giffen 
is a prominent attorney and has al
ways shown a deep interest In the 
welfare of the chapter.
DELTA UPSILON
On Tuesday evening, June 17, the 
Tech Chapter of the Delta Upsllon 
Fraternity held its last dance of the 
season at the Rlttenhouse. The Alum
ni from Pittsburgh and vicinity am, 
representatives of other Tech frater
nities were present. The patronesses 
and patrons of the function were Mr. 
and Mrs. M. T. R. Aude, Mr. and Mrs. 
L. K. Yoder, Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. 
Riindle and Captain and Mrs. Henry 
J. McCorkle.
COMMENCEMENTPROGRAM
You will lind thtit is i= Reymers Candies stand 1iiifirst with nine out of ten i 
! fellows. There surely 1; 
Ibe a reason tor omust 
this.
Selling at nearly a 
Drug' Stores and at our |i| 
own Retail Stores'
237 Fifth Avenue
437 Fifth Avenue | 
6018 Penn Avenue 
^5/!n^yniJt^!cnnniii/njeyi^ifiniiitniQi/i!yin^fi3JiiJ!jQi
I Oakland Annex Restaurantjf] 3708 FORBES STREET
3 TRY OUR SPECIAL 35c
DINNER
From 11 A. M. to 8 p. m.
{H Soup Meat Two Vegetables 
{H Dessert Coffee and Tea
W. O. Breckon
STUDIOS 
Forbes and Atwood Sts. j
Phones 1603160 Schenley g 
I SPECIAL PRICES TO TECH J 
STUDENTS
DttttIttttttJtLtttttttttttLttIttLttIttJtIttttItIIttttt'It'ttttttttttttIttIttItttttItItLtlLtYtPO
RttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttItttttttttILttttttttttttS
DONT FORGETWE WANT
an eight page 
TARTAN 
t When buying mention 
The Tartan.
Double the ads and 
youll double the news.
C. M. Staaft |
3702 FORBES STREET 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
STATIONERY AND NEWSDEALER
Phone 9078. Schenley 
Courteous and P\ompt Service.
Work for the summer of 1919 is 
scheduled as follows:
Sophomore Civils, $27.50, Septem
ber 8-27.
 Freshmen and Sophomore, Minors, 
922.50, September 8-27.
Junior Civils, $22.50, September
8-27.
oopliomore, Electricals, $15.00, Sep
tember l6-27.
Sophomore, Mechanicals, $15.00, 
September 15-27.
Sophomore, Metallurgists, $15.00, 
September 15-27.
lvnuuie claas, Building Construction, 
$15.00, September 15-27.
Students must present a cashier's 
receipt for the fee before they will 
be allowed to enroll at camp.
A pamphlet containing detailed in
formation concerning the location of 
camp, railroad facilities, accommoda-j 
tions furnished, rules for attendance, 
books and supplies, etc., may be ob
tained at Dean Motts office. Any 
students- of the above classes not 
taking the work at the time assigned 
will be penalized (see faculty ruling 
on pages 6 and 7 of pamphlet) un
less excused by the undersigned.
F. M. McCULOUGH, 
Department of Civil Engineering.
THE HOME GUARD
By ELLEN L. KENNEDY.
TECH TO GIVE SOLDIERS 
A CHANCE THIS SUMMER
The schedule of the commencement 
exercises has been announced.
Saturday, June 21The annual 
banquet of the Alumni Association of 
I ho Division of Industries will be 
held at the Hotel Chatham at 0:30 
p, m.
On Sunday, Juno 22, the baccalau
reate address will bo delivered In the 
theater of I ho Division of Doslgn at
 H> \
On Monday, Juno 23, an all day 
outing for tile Seniors of I,ho Mar
garet Morrison Division will he 
given at Geln Calm on the Alle
gheny. At :i p. m Monday, the Sen
iors of the Division of Sclenco and 
Engineering will hold a swim at the 
Pittsburgh Athletic Association. At
7 p, m., the Seniors of the Division 
of the Arts will hold their banquet 
at the Fort Pitt Hotol. At 9 p. m., 
Ilio Seniors of the Division of Indus
tries will take a boat trip on the 
teamer Sunshine.
On Tuesday, June 2-1, the Alpha 
Tau fraternity, an honorary fraternity 
of the Division of Industry, will hold 
the annual initiation and banquet at 
the Fort Pitt Hotel at 8 p. m. At
9 p. m. the Seniors of the Division 
of Science and Engineering will hold 
a dance at the Hotel Schenley.
On Wednesday, June 25, the Sen
ior class of the Margaret Morrison 
Division will give a luncheon at McCreerys at 1 p. m. At 3 p. m., two 
baseball teams, made up of the Sen
iors of the Science and Industries 
School on one team and the faculty 
on the other will play a game at 
Tech Field. At S p. m., the annual 
commencement ball will take place 
in the foyer of the Division of the 
Arts. Seniors, Juniors, Alumni and 
Faculty will take part.
Thursday/ June 26, an exhibition 
of the Schools of Architecture, Paint
ing and Decoration and Sculpture 
will be given in the Exhibition Room 
of the Division of the Arts. At 2:15 
a matinee will be given in the thea
ter. "Loves Constancy and The 
Admirable Baslwille," two one act 
plays will be the ones produced by 
the School of Drama. At 4 p. m., a 
tree planting will take place on the 
campus. The Seniors will officiate.
Three of the four schools of this 
institution will hold classes in, some 
of the studies this summer, the only 
exception being the Margaret Morri
son Division.
The classes that will be held in 
the Science School are: Two courses 
in Chemistry, ten courses in Phy
sics, one in Civil Engineering, three 
In Machine Design, five in Mathe
matics, two in English, and three in 
Modern Languages. In the Division 
of Arts, professional classes are plan
ned in the school of Music, which 
include piano, organ, violin and violincello. Also individual lessons on 
wood-wind, brass and percussion in
struments may .be arranged. Also if 
there be great enough demand, a spe
cial course for musical supervision, 
may be formed.
In the division of Applied, Indus
tries, five classes In Mathematics, 
two in Chemistry, four in Mechanical 
Drawing, three in Architectural 
Drawing, three in Structural Draw
ing, three in i"achlne Shop, five in 
Electrical Equipment;' and Construc
tion, shop work and lectures in San
itary Equipment and Installation and 
a short course in Automobile Main
tenance and Repair will be formed.
Practically all of the courses out
lined In the summer courses are de
signed to permit men coming put of 
service to partially catch up in the 
studios they left when they went to 
the front, In addition to this the 
institute has changod its school 
terms from two semesters to three 
terms in the school year of equal 
length with the summer term. This 
means that a soldier or sailor who 
has been away and unable lo enter 
the Institute may still complete his 
four year course in four years' by 
studying at the summer school. For 
a course consisting of throe terms 
annually for four years or twelve 
terms all told, may be completed by 
studying four terms annually for 
three years. The course Is further 
designed to meet the needs of 
teachers who are employed during 
the school year. Application to the 
Registrar of the Institute will bring 
any desired information as to fees, 
living accommodations or special in
formation desired regarding the pro
posed courses.
A Way to Test the World.
There Is one way for every man to 
determine for himself whether the 
world is growing better or worse. All 
he has to do is to ascertain whether 
the number of people who agree with 
him is increasing or diminishing. 
Houston Post.
All Acted About Same.
Are you *sure he is crazy, doctor? 
You are his wife; you ought to 
know. "But Ive been married twice 
before, and I thought he acted about 
the same' as the others.Life,
Thought for the Morning.
Tn the morning when thou are slug
gish at rousing thee, let into thought 
be present: "I am rising to do a
mans work.Marcus Aurelius.
Substitute for Rubber.
A preparation of solidified glue, 
which can la* used Instead of rubber 
for many purposes, has been invented 
by a German sclontlst.
Very New.
A little girl out walking with her 
mother saw a dog with a license tag on 
his collar and exclaimed: "Oh, moth
er, theres a new dog that they havent 
taken the tag off of yet."
The Second Stage.
Sold your car yet?" "No," replied 
the melancholy motorist. "I passed 
that stage long ago." "Indeed. "Yes, 
I:m trying to give it away now.
Billions for Automobiles.
It has been estimated that by mid
summer there were close to -1,000,000 
automobiles on the road in tills country 
alone, and that $3,080,000,000 will be 
spent during tlio year In sustaining 
them.
No Hurry.
BessOh, yes, 1 know that he is a 
perfect angel, but there will be plenty 
of time to mix with them after one 
gets to heaven."
Bagged.
Into the bottom of a new traveling 
bag is folded a water-tight union suit 
so that a person can use the affair as a 
life preserver, the bag being buoyant 
enough to hold him up in water.
The early spring dusk was falling 
as Hugh Standish dropped from the 
suburban car and splashed through the 
icy slush and mud toward home. It 
had been a hard day and he was tired. 
His shoulders sagged a trifle and his 
limp was more perceptible than usual. 
But more depressing than any mere 
physical weariness was the dull heav
iness that oppressed his spirits. He 
bad felt it ever since his soldier broth
ers return from France.
As he turned In at the gate of the 
little cottage the bright light from the 
living room windows streamed out 
across the path and he stopped in the 
shade of the syringa bush to look in 
on (lie famlllnr, comfortable old room. 
Several people were sitting there. He 
could see Aunt Caroline, dignified and 
elegant in her best black silk; Uncle 
Charles, portly and smiling; Cousin 
Gertrude * In her stylish prettiness, 
twelve-year-old Tom, in his boyish face 
looking serious and intent; over In 
tiie corner his mother with an immac
ulate white apron over her afternoon 
gown. And every pair of eyes was 
bent In admiration upon the, tall, sol
dierly figure that stood by the piano,' 
his lieutenant brother, irreproachable 
In every detail, from the top of his 
sm'oothly brushed head to the square 
tips of his tan shoes. As he bent for
ward to arrange the music the light 
flashed on the medal that adorned his 
breast. Hugh could see the face of 
the girl who sat at the piano, but the 
light glinted softly on the brown coils 
of her hair.
"Hero-worshiping, muttered the sol
itary figure by the syringa bush.
With an exclamation of impatience 
Hugh moved on; but still that stirring 
voice pursued him. Quietly he let him
self in at tlie side door and tip-toed 
softly about the dimly lit kitchen. He 
had no desire to attract the attention 
of the jolly group in the living room.
"He can trail around in the moon
light with the nightingales, ran his 
thoughts; "it seems to be up to me to 
keep the home fires burning. Out In 
the woodshed he filled,his arms with 
firewood and turned once more kitch
en ward, but paused at the sound of 
voices in th6 room.
"Now, Molly, child,, you run right 
back and help entertain all those peo
ple. I can manage alone, said his 
mothers voice.
"But I would so much rather help 
here, was the reply in the girlish 
voice the listener loved.
"Let me tell you one thing, Molly." 
The elder womans tone was low and 
Impressive. The heroes of this war 
did not all get over to France. Some 
of the bravest of them never even saw 
a training camp or wore the khaki. Oh, 
Im not. belittling what Dick did. I 
know he was a good soldier, and I am 
proud of him. It was always easy for 
Dick to do spectacular things. But if 
he could have been accepted Hugh 
would have made just as good a sol
dier, while Dicks courage is not. the 
kllid that would have kept him cheer
ful and faithful with only one old 
woman for a witness.
"Dont you suppose I have seen, 
too? Molly replied. "Dont you think 
I know that Hugh has worn ills old 
overcoat all winter because tile price 
nf a new one went to the Liberty loan? 
And the patches on.lt are just as much
DD badge of honor as a medal. And he 
lias not only given his money but his 
time and strength to every worthy 
movement.
The eavesdropper thrilled at the 
trembling earnestness of the girls 
voice; and now, as they slightly 
changed their positions, he saw his 
mother take the girl by the shoulders 
and look keenly Into her flushed face. 
Child," she said, "I have thought 
Hughs lameness was his only infirm
ity. Now I believe he is hopelessly 
blind.
The color flamed higher in the girls 
cheeks.
"You must not b'e the one to open 
his eyes," she replied.
"He must see for himself, or I must 
remain a spinster sclioohuaam the 
rest of my days.
Hugh dropped his armful of wood, 
with a crash and then deliberately be
gan picking it up again.
"Who is that? demanded a startled 
voice, and in the doorway appeared 
his mother, with .Mollys bright face 
peering over her shoulder.
Only the home guard, ' mother. 
Dont be frightened.
And all through the evening that 
followed those same eyes beamed be
hind their spectacles with a grinning 
satisfaction, for Hugh, generally so 
cpilet, was the life of the little party. 
His rich baritone joined with Dicks 
tenor, Mollys contralto and . Cousin 
Gertrudes soprano, In all the .popular 
war songs. He discussed the league 
of nations with Uncle Charles In a Way 
that made that worthy mans broad 
face beam with approval. He was qui
etly deferential to Aunt Caroline and 
teased Cousin Gertrude. To Molly he 
said but little until Uncle Charles, con
sulting his watch, declared that the 
women folks must hustle If they In
tended to get that last car to town. 
Then, finding Dick helping Molly Into 
her wraps, lie coolly took them from 
him, saying:
"You take Gertrude to the carthe 
home guard will look after Molly. 
"Come, Molly, he said, and obedi
ently Molly came, as she had long 
known she would come whenever that 
voice should summon her.
'.Copyright. 1919. bv the McClure News
paper Syndicate.)
PRICE for price,grade for grade, 
there is 001 better pipe made 
than a W DC. You can get a pipe 
with the familiar triangle trade
mark in any size and shape and 
grade you wantand you will be 
glad you did it. WDC Pipes are 
American made and sold in the 
best shops at $6 down to 75 cents.
WM. DEMUTH & CO., New York
World's Laruesl Pipe Manufacturer
Here is a pipe to be proud of in any company. Genuine French Briar, carefully selected, beauti
fully worked, superbly 
mounted with sterling band and vulcanite bit
OAKLAND HARDWARE COMPANY
Baseballs and Gloves Tennis Balls
3606 FORBES STREET
Oakland Savings & Trust Co.
CAPITAL,
SURPLUS,
Member of Federal Reserve System. 
THE OAKLAND BANK
DEPOSITS OVER $3,000,000.00
$200,000.00
$200,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
R. T- LEWIS CO.
COMMERCIAL
INVITATIONS
TICKETS
DANCE PROGRAMS 
AND FRATERNITYPRINTING
Phipps Power Building
Bell Phone 4418 Court Pittsburgh, Pa.j!
A N D
j:<N ati<oNno<lN6 10 O PE N N AVE N UE%
;
r|j
17078503
