Vol. VIII. No. VI .NofBegB ifnwgwtwB of hBscfdmdera pgwwnltoeca pBffnrmbNfgN SNftNor AAa VuVT
PITT WINS FIRST
TAKES OUR OPENING (SAME 32- 23
DEPAR1MEKT Of 
PRINTIfiO
NEW COURSE TO BE OPENED 
SECOND SEMESTER.
Beginning with the second semester 
a new department will be added to the 
School of Applied Industries. The 
Department of Printing will be opened 
to both day and night students. The 
dates for interviews with the head of 
the department have not been an
nounced.
Dealing with the mechanical shop, 
drawing, manufacturing and artistic 
side of the business the course in print
ing as mapped out by Harry L. Gage, 
of Battle Creek, Mich., who will have 
charge under Dean Connelly, is ex
pected to be possibly the most ad
vanced step ever taken in that work. 
Dean Connolly is now ready to talk 
to the prospective students who desire 
to enter the new department.
Mr. Gage is a member of the Michi
gan family which included printers for 
two generations back in each branch. 
He received his shop training while 
completing common school courses, 
working in each department of his 
fathers plant. His work included 
electrotyping, binding and photo en
graving, as well as printing. Mr. Gage 
studied three years in the Chicago Art 
Institute and was gi^en foreign travel
ing scholarship by that institution. He 
was the critic for the International 
Typographical Union course in print
ing in 1908. Mr. Gage has written for 
technical publications on lettering and 
designing. His idea of the work at 
Tech is to give the student a general 
knowledge of the printing business 
rather than specialized practice in any 
one department.
The list of subjects that will be 
taught Tech will give an idea of how 
thoroughly the new department is go
ing to teach the subject of printing. 
The following is the list of subjects 
in the department of printing:
Lettering, design, freehand drawing, 
type machine composition (hand and 
machine), imposition and lockup, du
plication processes, manufacture and 
handling of paper, manufacture and 
handling of inks, job press work, cyl
inder work, bindery work, shipping 
routine, English, proof-reading and 
style, mathematics, chemistry, physics, 
mechanical drawing, machine shop 
work, photography, laboratory work in 
engraving, allied process, cost system 
and bookkeeping, estimating, business 
principles, advertising and salesman
ship.
In regard to freehand drawing Mr.
Although the Varsity five showed 
superior work on the floor, poor 
shooting lost the first game of the 
season to Pitt. The game was played 
at the Field House on Friday night, 
January 16, and ended with the score 
32 to 23 in favor of the visitors.
The game was fast throughout and 
the largest crowd of spectators that 
ever filled the gym. was kept on edge 
every second of play. More than six 
hundred rooters were admitted, while 
a large number were turned away be
cause of lack of space. Extra seats 
had been erected, but these were in
adequate to take care of the number 
admitted. The gallery was packed, 
the sides of the court were lined, and 
many found seats on apparatus or on 
the floor in front of those seated on 
chairs or benches. Pitt was repre
sented by more than a hundred rooters 
who made the room ring with their 
time-honored yells. Dink Merrill 
led the Carnegie cheers and had a con
tinuous roar issuing from the throats 
of his followers. More spirit was 
shown than at any other basketball 
game since the Field House has been 
occupied.
A delegation from Sharpsburg was 
on hand to do honor to Capt. Criswell. 
They arrived in a body accompanied 
by a liberal supply of pretzels, with 
which they refreshed themselves and 
the other spectators. Each member 
wore an arm-pennant with our colors 
and their cheers were both original 
and entertaining. Needless to say, they 
were active partisans, and the rooting 
was all for Tech.
Had any one of the Plaid players 
caged one-tenth of his shots at the 
basket, the score would have been in
Gage says it is essential that the stu
dent have such facility as he can ac
quire in freehand drawing in order 
that he may express himself freely 
with a pencil in the making up of lay
outs, etc.
Mathematics enters into the course 
up to proportion and plane geometry 
to facilitate the printers needs of the 
many problems of computation that 
occur in regular practice. The chem
istry taught will cover the composition 
of inks and papers and the principles 
that cover the fundamentals of photo 
engraving.
Everybody is boosting the Prom, 
so get in line.
our favor by an easy margin. The 
play was largely in the Carnegie field, 
but every man on the team failed to 
locate the net when given a chance to 
shoot. The work of the defense was 
all that could be desired. Pitt was 
given little chance to score, but made 
good on almost every occasion.
Douthett was by far the best per
former of the game. He was put as 
guard on Lubic, the star of the Pitt 
team, and kept him helpless during 
most of the contest. Tumpane and 
Criswell did everything well except 
the shooting. Colvin played rather 
erratically, but most of the time out
played his opponent. Hines showed 
himself a consistent guard, and con
tributed to the keeping of the ball out 
of dangerous territory.
Lubics foul-shooting was remark
able. He scored twelve times out of 
fifteen chances. These points, with his 
three field goals, netted 18 of Pitts 
score of 32. Hughes also did good 
work.
The score:
Carnegie Tech-23 U. of Pitt32
Tumpane.................F....................... Lubic
Criswell.................F...................... Healy
Colvin.......................C...................... Reese
Douthett..................G..Capt. Ochenhirt
Hines........................G.................. Hughes
Substitutions: Straw for Healy,
Briggs for Hughes, Peck for Lubic.
Field goals: Tumpane 3, Criswell, 
Colvin, Lubic 3, Healy 4, Reese 2, Ochsenhirt.
Foul goals: Colvin 13 out of 25; Lu
bic 12 out of 15.
Referee: Heinrich. Timekeeper: Eyman. Scorer: Kline. Time: 20-min
ute halves. Score at end of first half: 
Pitt 18, Tech 11.
Beginning Saturday morning, Jan
uary 24th, from1 10:30 to 12:00, special 
class will be conducted in the gym
nasium with a view to organizing a 
gym team and also to train men for 
leadership in class work. As we have 
occasional demands for men to do this 
kind of work, it offers an oportunity 
for students to help pay their way 
through school.
It costs you big, large dollars to 
go to school. It will only mean a few 
extra ones to go to the Prom.
JUNIATA WINS 
THRILLING GAME
COMES FROM BEHIND, WITH 
HELP OF SUB-CENTER.
After apparently well-beaten, Juni
ata came back in the second half and 
won from Carnegie Tech on Saturday 
night, January 17, by a score of 40-31. 
The credit of the victory all goes to 
Elmer Landis, a big boy who was kept 
out of the first period because of ill
ness, but seemed perfectly well when 
he scored eight field goals in the last 
half.
The first half ended with the score 
18 to 9 in favor of Carnegie Tech. E. 
Landis replaced his brother, H. Lan
dis, at center and put new life into his 
team. Inside of five minutes the score 
had been run up to 24-20 in favor of 
the visitors. Carnegie took a brace 
and tied the score at 24. In the next 
few minutes the tally was a tie four 
separate times, at 26, 28, 29, and 30. 
The last few minutes let the Juniata 
five draw ahead, and the final score 
showed them 9 points ahead.
The shooting of the Tech players 
was a slight improvement over that of 
the night before. Tumpane was the 
star for the Plaid. Douthett again 
played a good game at guard. Bigler 
did good work for his team.
The score:
Carnegie Tech--31Juniata40
Tumpane............ ..F.. .
. . .F.. .
Colvin.................. ..G.. .... H. Landis
Douthett...............G..Capt. Manbeck.. .G...
Substitutions :: Levyfor. Colvin, E.
Landis for H. Landis.
Field goals: Tumpane 6, Criswell 2, 
Colvin 2, Douthett 2 Hines 2, Bigler
3, H. Landis 3, E. Landis 8.
Foul goals: Colvin missed 5, Cris
well 3 out of 5, Bigler 12 out of 22.
Referee: Manthe. Timer: McCulloch. Scorers: Kline and Replogle. 
Score for first half: Tech 18, Juniata
9.
SAFETY FIRST.
In recognition of the efforts put 
forth in the interest of Safety First, 
the School has been made a member of 
the National Council of Industrial 
Safety. A branch of the Council was 
organized in this city recently and 
Dean Connelley was put on the Execu
tive Board as chairman of the Com
mittee on Program1.
You say that you cant get a girl? 
There's the M. M. C. S.
GYM NOTICE.
(5hr ularian

---------------------------------------------------

aria
ltr Surtan
Published weekly by Undergradu
ates of the Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
Business communications should be 
addressed to the BUSINESS MAN
AGER; all articles should be sent to 
he EDITOR-IN-CHIEF.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
Yearly $1.50. 5c per Copy
Entered in the Post Office of Pitts
burgh as second class matter.
Chas. E. Gilson, 14. .Editor-in-Chief
G. Guy Kelcey, 14.........Business Mgr.
W. H. Searight, 16.. Managing Editor
C. B. Kline.....................Athletic Editor
Ruth Gubtil, 14...M. M. C. S. Editor
A. H. McGill, 14...........Science Editor
Carl C. Manchester, 16.Design Editor 
J. M. Parke, 14.... Industries Editor 
Wm. M. Sheldon, 15.Exchange Editor
D. L. Mathias, 14.Staff Photographer 
A. Cowan, 15...Asst. Business Mgr.
E. S. Rauh, 15..Asst. Athletic Editor
Harold Knight, 16......................Reporter
P. N. Bossart, 16........................Reporter
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible 
for the editorial policy of this paper; 
the Managing Editor for the news 
items and general make-up.
PITTSBURGH, PA., JAN. 22, 1914
CANDIDATES WANTED FOR 
POSITION OF ASSISTANT 
TREASURER OF ATH
LETIC ASSOCIATION.
All those wishing to be considered 
as candidates for the position of as
sistant treasurer of the Athletic Asso
ciation please notify me at once.
A. D. BEEKEN, JR.
Secy Athletic Association.
Meeting of Student Activities Com
mittee (Faculty Board) January 13th, 
1914:
Moved and seconded that ineligibil
ity arising from a monthly test im
mediately preceding a previously ar
ranged public performance shall not 
take effect until the expiration of two 
weeks from date of test; this regula
tion to apply only to non-athletic ac
tivities. Carried.
PITT VERSUS CARNEGIE.
The rivalry between Yale and Har
vard has been established in such a 
way that it has become classic,a 
thing historic. Almost everyone ex
pects some evidence of the spirit, not 
once, but often during each year. Yet 
it is not a spirit of hate that is in
spired. In sport, it is a spirit of pure 
American sportsmanship. In all else 
it is tempered by gentlemanly respect 
and toleration, though it may be ex
pressed in terms that would lead to 
other beliefs.
Here, in Pittsburgh, we have a paral
lel in the rivalry between the Univer
sity and our own school. Perhaps 
it is a trace more bitter. In sport, we 
rail against their methods; they, judg
ing by comparative scores, hold us in 
more or less contempt. We, having 
higher athletic standards; tend to con
demn them as knaves. They often 
regard us as weaklings and fools, yet 
wishing that they had our reputation 
for pure amateurism.
Yet, in spite of this intoleration, 
(inevitable because of the youth of 
those concerned, not to speak of their 
humaneness), there exists some bond 
between the two institutions. Perhaps 
this was shown, as seldom before on 
last Friday evening, when the basket
ball teams of the neighboring schools 
met for the first time of the season.
Because the game was played on our 
floor, Carnegie had the larger repre
sentation. However, the hundred or 
more Pitt rooters made up in spirit for 
what they lacked in volume and kept 
the cheers echoing almost continually. 
Our own rooters furnished the greater 
part of the noise, and numerous com
pliments were passed between the two 
sections. Neither side hesitated to ap
plaud members of the opposing team 
as well as those of their own.
After a suspension of athletic rela
tions between the two schools for over 
a year, 1914 will probably witness 
meetings in every branch of sport. 
Inasmuch as the institutions are close 
neighbors and have many interests in 
common, the revival of friendly rela
tions will prove an opportunity for 
better spirit between them. Even if 
we do lose a contest,and we cannot 
always win,we should recognize 
that our teams can only be beaten by 
superior playing, and give credit for 
the defeat.
The spirit in evidence last Friday 
night should never be changed in the 
slightest, unless for the better. If we 
are true sports ourselves we will 
find that we will be met half wray. We 
do not acknowledge Pitt as our su
periors, we may even think of them as 
inferiors in many ways, but, in the 
name of sportsmanship, let us treat 
them as equal.
C. B. Kline.
CAN THE AMERICAN COLLEGE 
STUDENT WRITE?
Frederick Lynch of The Christian 
Work and Evangelist recently ex
pressed the opinion that American col
lege students cannot write, and he at
tributed this to a deficiency in the 
curriculum of our institutions. His 
belief is that the whole tendency of 
our colleges is directly away from 
those studies that give one the power 
to express himself in correct and 
classic style. On the other hand, he 
says that English colleges do train 
their students in correct writing. The 
following are extracts from his article: 
One has only to compare the edi
torials in the English papers with 
those in American papers to see what 
I mean We simply have no editors 
in Americaone or two exceptions 
who can wrrite such editorials as ap
pear weekly in the London Spectator. 
The Saturday Review, The Nation,
The Economist, The British Weekly, 
The Christian World, to say nothing 
of the daily papers.
The simple reason that English col
lege graduates can write is that they 
have been trained in the classics. But 
the drift is all away from the classics 
in our colleges. We are substituting 
courses in life insurance for phil
osophy, and lectures on commerce 
and banking for the translation of 
Homer and Horace into English. We 
turn out good engineers, but one of 
themquite eminent, toofrom one 
of our great universities asked me, 
myself, once, Who was ShelleyNothing can replace this strict 
classic training in teaching boys to 
write correct English. Its revival in 
America, with our disdain of culture 
and our acclamation of the hustling 
qualities, is far off. The two things 
we could do in our colleges are these: 
First, require a weekly composition 
from every student for four years; 
these compositions to be carefully 
corrected by competent instructors in 
rhetoric. Extemporaneous writing 
would greatly help. Let subjects be 
announced beforehand, but compel the 
students to write for an hour on the 
subject with no assistance from books. 
Along with weekly writing the stu
dents of our American colleges should 
be encouragedsometimes I wonder 
if they should not be compelledto 
read the great masters of the English 
tongue. It is almost a disgrace that 
a man should leave a college who has 
not read Chaucer, Milton, Shakespeare, 
Wordsworth, Shelley, Browning, Car
lyle, Ruskin, and Tennyson, to say 
nothing of the other great poets, es
sayists, and prophets. Anyhow, they 
should be read until their great and 
lofty diction passes into ones 
thought.
Objections have been raised to Mr. 
Lynchs raticle on the ground that it 
is impractical, not in accord with the 
spirit of the American youth, and fur
thermore that a fluency of expression 
is of no avail unless we are masters 
of the affairs of today. On the con
trary, it seems to us that there is much 
good in his suggestion. Take, for ex
ample, any engineering course here. 
The tendency of such a course must 
necessarily be towards a narrow spe
cialization. Yet all will agree that any 
limitation set to a young mans views 
and ability of expressing them is to be 
deplored. Now we think that students 
may keep in touch with the daily news, 
become well-grounded in the funda
mentals of true citizenship, and still 
have time for the special training 
which we come here to obtain. By 
becoming acquainted with the writings 
of the great English masters, by learn
ing to analyze these works, we acquire 
the ability to clearly express our own 
views on subjects of the present day. 
By keeping in touch with current 
events, we become well-posted on 
what is happening in the world. Now, 
if we are able to speak or write con
vincingly on these subjects, we may 
become leaders of our fellow-men, and 
if we are careful that our views are 
based upon true deductions, we may 
form the most valuable body of citi
zens in the country.
DIRECTORY
ATHLETTCS.
FootballE. C. McCaughey, Capt.
F. E. Davis, Mgr.,
311 McKee Place.
BaseballW. K. Hall, Capt.,
W. F. Routh, Mgr.
5437 Aylesboro St.
Basketball
W. T. Criswell, Capt.
W. F. Wright, Mgr.,
311 McKee Place.
TrackE. L. Clair, Capt.
Wm. Miller, Mgr.
Tennis
G. Douthett, Capt.
R. S. Wilson, Mgr.
Students Advertising Bureau
G. G. Kelcey, Mgr.
Room 1, Industries Bldg.,
9167-J Schenley.
SOCIETIES 
Musical Clubs
L. R. Madison, Pres.
N. A. Hollister, Mgr.
5137 Woodlawn Ave. 
SeannachieE. L. Clair, Pres 
Carnegie BandH. E. Gumbart, Mgr.,
310 Oakland Ave.
Mho ClubW. C. Sontum, Pres. 
Mechanical Club
J. B. Patterson, President. 
White Friars
J. A. Cameron, Pres.
G. W. Gilpin,
5557 Beeler St.
Tech Studio Club
H. B. Pearce, Pres.
T. D. C.
T. A. C.
C. E. Society
Al. H. Woods, Pres.
Fulcrum Club
H. R. Auerswald, Pres. 
Crucible Club
CLUBS AND FRATERNITIES.
Sigma Tau5141 Woodlawn Ave.
Schenley 9167-J.
Sigma Rho3400 Iowa St.
Schenley 9022-J.
Beta Theta Epsilon
5437 Aylesboro Ave.  
Schenley 2508 
Xi Sigma Upsilon
311 McKee Place.
Schenley 9253.
Zeta Lambda Epsilon
237 N. Dithridge St.,
9053 Schenley.
Pi Chapter, Theta Xi
3890 Grant Blvd.
Schenley, 9143.
Woodlawn Club
5137 Woodlawn Ave.
Schenley 9020.
Alumni Assn of Applied Science 
and Design
W. H. Rieger, Sec.& Treas., 
Room 204 A. & J. Bldg., 
Carnegie Institute of Technology.
Student Senates
DesignA. H. Good, Pres.
Athletic Board of Control
J. J. Doherty, Pres.
A. D. Beeken, Jr., Secy.
C. I. T. Orchestra
G. C. Smith, Pres.
H. E. Gumbart, Mgr.,
310 Oakland Ave.

---------------------------------------------------

tfje arta
C. I. T. A. A. TREASURERS CASH INDOOR BASEBALL INSTEAD 
REPORT FROM SEPT. 28, 1912, OF BASKETBALL FINAL
TO NOV. 13, 1913. LEAGUE GAMES.
DEBITS.
Cash on hand Sept. 28th. 12 $ 147.31
Student Fees 1912 ................. 5,789.00
Student Fees 1913 ................. 6,021.00
On Field and Stands ........... 89.02
From Alumna for Press
Agent ...................................... 50.00
O. S. & T. Co., Interest on 
Checking Account ............. 26.18
$12,122.51
CREDITS.
Baseball 1912 ............................$ 118.50
Baseball 1913 ............................ 861.88
Baseball 1914 ............................ 6.65
Football 1911 ................................................. 2.40
Football 1912 ............................ 1,561.60
Football 1913 ............................ 1,455.39
Basketball 1912 ................. 31.50
Basketball 1913 ................. 246.37
Track 1912 ................................ 92.21
Track 1913 ................................ 658.83
Track 1914 ................................ 117.34
Tennis 1912 .............................. 11.00
Tennis 1913 .............................. 39.05
Notes Payable .................. 303.59
Printing ...................................... 117.40
Season Tickets 1912............. 35.00
Season Tickets 1913............. 104.00
Officers Expenses ................. 38.71
Band, trip to Beaver Falls.. 11.50
Press Work .............................. 149.97
Miscellaneous Expenses ... 190.27
Field Rental ............................ 89.02
$ 6,242.18
Cash on hand Nov. 13, 1913 5,880.33
$12,122.33 
ALBERT E. WOOD, JR., 
Treasurer to Nov. 13, 1913.
How to get a friend for life? Take 
her to the Prom.
MUSICAL CLUBS AT HOME
STEAD.
Last Friday night at the First Pres
byterian Church, Homestead, Pa., the 
clubs entertained one of the largest 
and most enthusiastic crowds of the 
season with the snappiest and most 
tuneful concert, following which a re
ception was given the men by the 
young ladies of the church. Whos 
who cards were handed out and each 
person wrote his name on the other 
persons card; just to become ac
quainted.
The concert was full of spirit and 
vigor, and never for a minute lacked 
that finish which is characteristic of 
our club. One number in the reper
toire of the Glee Club that is causing 
considerable comment, is Wanted 
A Wife. The dendition of this num
ber Friday night brought down the 
house and it was remarked afterward 
that the participants not only sang 
well, but they were good actors.
There will be no concerts till after 
exams., but the rehearsals will be 
posted on the bulletin board.
Yes, the Prom's at the Rittenhouse 
February 20th.
Once again it is necessary to re
tract an announcement made last 
week concerning the second division 
of the basketball league. It will not 
be organized, but in its stead, one in 
indoor baseball will be formed. The 
plans for the latter have not yet been 
definitely arranged.
The final games in the basketball 
league played on Tuesday, January 
13th, completed the schedule in a very 
satisfactory manner. All of the con
tests occurred on time and none were 
forfeited. That the race was excit
ing is indicated by the closeness in 
the averages of the teams, with the 
exception fof fi'rst, each place had 
two occupants. The Woodlawn Club 
is awarded the pennant, so to speak, 
and with it the title of Inter-school 
.Basketball Champions.
Final Standing of the Teams.
W.L.Pet.
Woodlawn Club ..........51.833
Beta Theta Epsilon...42.667
Xi Sigma Upsilon.....42.667
Theta Xi ......................., . 33.500
Zeta Lambda Epsilon... 33.500
Sigma Rho ...................15.167
Sigma Tau ...................15.167
Scores.
Zeta Lambda Epsilon11
Theta Xi7
Ashworth...............F.............. Stevenson
Calalian...................F............. Vierheller
Fletcher...................C...................... Tyler
Welch......................G..................... Kinch
Ettele.......................G.................... Oakes
Field GoalsZeta Lambda Epsilon 
5; Theta Xi 3. Foul goalsZeta Lamb
da Epsilon 1; Theta Xi 1.
Xi Sigma Upsilon12 Sigma Tau3
Lappey......................F.................. Beeken
Gay..........................F................. Conway
Humphrey...............C................... Knight
Houston...................G...................... Lane
Bradberry................G.................... Baker
Field goalsXi Sigma Upsilon 5; 
Sigma Tau 1. Foui goalsXi Sigma 
Upsilon 2; Sigma Tau 1.
ONE OF OUR GRADUATES PRO
MOTED TO A RESPONSIBLE 
POSITION.
A letter has been recently received 
by Secretary Field from H. W. Gott
fried, who graduated in 1909. Gott
fried is stationed at Mexico City, and 
holds a position with the Mexican rep
resentatives of the Westinghouse 
Electrical and Manufacturing Co. 
From his letter it is learned that he 
has just been honored by appointment 
as chief of the electrical department. 
His work covers the handling of elec
trical machinery and equipment worth 
approximately a quarter of a million 
dollars; he is also in charge of the 
erecting department and repair shops, 
and all other engineering work con
nected therewith.
A MANS 
STORE
One of the problems of the modern department store 
has had to face has been to make men generally appreciate 
that it is a mans store as much as a womans store, and 
that it is capable of rendering him an equal service with 
woman.
A department store is really a number of highly 
organized specialty stores, each a complete and well organ
ized shop in itself, operating under one roof and enjoying 
the purchasing and selling advantages which such organi
zation permits over the smaller dealer operating individu
ally. The whole under one management with a clearly 
defined policy which operates throughout every department 
to the security and satisfaction of the customer.
The semi-annual Shirt Sale held here last week, dur
ing which nearly 36,000 shirts were sold in four days at 
one price, is evidence of the fact that men are coming to 
better appreciate the power of the modern department 
store to serve them.
The man who would know the best merchandising 
service that the twentieth century is able to offer him will 
make the better acquaintance of this store.
Joseph Horne Co.
The Modern Store
PITTSBURGH
We recommend the merchants advertising in the Tartan as the best in town. They will give you the best prices and quality.

---------------------------------------------------

4QIartatt
WE HAVE THE NEW ONES IN SHOES
STOEBENER
Man with the Shoes
6227 Penn Ave. East End. 6222 Frankstown Avc.
City Office East End Office
631 Penn Avenue S. Highland Ave. and Baum StreetOswald Weme* & Sons Co.
Pittsburgh's Oldest and Largest Dyeing and Cleaning Works
New Private Branch Exchange, Call Hiland I 138 
Main Office and Works: Cor. Bryant, St. Clair and Mellon Sts.
A NATIONAL INSTITUTIONBrowning, King & Co.
CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS AND HATS FOR MEN BOYS AND CHILDREN
439-441 WOOD STREET
HOTEL SCHENLEY
ROMAN H. HEYN, President THOMAS J. KARAS, Manager
qPHE place where all Entertainments, Banquets and ^ Social Functions of the Carnegie Institute of Technology and its Fraternities are being given.
Try our 50c Luncheonthe finest obtainable in 
the City of Pittsburgh, served daily in our Rathskeller.
j M. M. C. S. NEWS t 
M. M. C. S. GUILD.
The Margaret Morrison Guild held 
its annual meeting in The Little 
House, Monday, January 12. The 
report of the treasurer showed that 
$110.00 had been raised during the 
year, $100.00 of which is to be given 
to the Tuberculosis Hospital.
The following officers were elected: 
president, Mary L. Williams; vice 
president, Dorothy Skinner; secretary, 
Mary McGrew; treasurer, Nelle Kern.
After the election of officers the 
members were addressed by Miss 
Frances Miller of the Sunday party 
on The Opportunities of College 
Women. Mrs. Jones accompanied 
Miss Miller, and they, with several 
members of the Faculty, enjoyed the 
tea and sandwiches served by the 
committee to the members of the 
Guild.
DUQUESNE THE YELLOW 
JACKET.
Not until George Hazelton and Benrimo wrote The Yellow Jacket, has 
any one attempted to evolve for the 
English speaking stage a play dealing 
with the Chinese as a people and fash
ioned after the Chinese method of 
dramatic production. The Mongol as 
a theme for treatment in English on 
the stage had perhaps its greatest ex
ploitation in Gilbert and Sullivans 
Japanese comic opera, The Mikado. 
In The Yellow Jacket, which will 
have its first presentation in Pitts
burgh by the Harry Davis Players at 
the Duquesne beginning Monday, Jan
uary 26th, one is permitted to obtain 
a thorough conception of the manner 
in which the Chinese put on a play in 
their own country, and duplications of 
which are found in their quaint thea
tres in the Chinatown of San Fran
cisco and New York in this country.
HARRY LAUDER AT MEMORIAL 
HALL.
William Morris will bring Harry 
Lauder, the Scotch comedian, to Me
morial Hall on Friday evening, Janu
ary 23 and Saturday, January 24, mat
inee and night. Lauder is engaged in 
his sixth American tour. This is 
Lauders first tour of the world. 
Lauders song repertoire will be se
lected from the following: Its Nice
to Get Up in the Mornin, But Nicer 
to Lie in Bed, Ta, Ta, My Bonnie 
Maggie Darlin  and The Sager, 
new songs never sung here before, 
among others being I Love a Lassie, 
She Is My Daisy, Roamin in the 
Gloamin, The Kiltie Lads, Its 
Nice When You Love a Wee Lassie, 
O Wee Deoch & Doris, The Same 
as His Father Was Before Him, 
Im the Saftest o the Family and 
Shes the Lass for Me.
Remember, no flowers at the Prom 
this year. Another reason for going.
THE ALVIN.
Coming to the Alvin Theater next 
week beginning January 26 is the pro
duction of The Family Cupboard, 
the remarkably frank drama of Owen 
Davis. It is doubtful if any play of 
the decade has undertaken a subject 
of such moment, and dealt with it as 
successfully as has been done in this 
drama. Throughout the whole four 
acts there is a vein of comedy, re
lieving the tenser situations, and sup
plying as many laughs as there are 
tears in the play.
T. D. C. DANCE.
The T. D. C. Dance that was to 
have ben held last November, but was 
postponed on account of Dean Hewlitts death, will be held February 4th, 
at the Conservatory of Music. Sev
eral new and novel dances are being 
arranged for and the committee as
sures every one o ROYAL TIME. 
The entire school is invited.
GASOLINE.
Gasoline, George Fitch tells us, was 
originally used only for cleaning 
gloves and ejecting hired girls 
through the kitchen roof, but has now 
been taught a great variety of inter
esting tricks, such as running auto
mobiles, aeroplanes, motor boats, 
windmills, street cars, hearses, corn 
shelters and bicycles.
By the aid of gasoline we can travel 
sixty miles an hour through the air, 
150 miles an hour over the land, and 
six feet into the ground, with the 
greatest ease.
A gallon of gasoline can do as much 
work in an hour as a horse can do in 
a day, and it doesnt have to be fed 
and bedded down at night. It can 
drive an automobile twenty miles, and 
while doing this can cause three runa
ways, a collision, a $20.00 fine for 
speeding, a divorce suit and an in
quest.
A gallon of whisky at a Saturday 
night dance can cause a great deal of 
trouble, but it is tame and kittenish 
beside a gallon of whiz-water which 
is conducting a joy ride.
Gasoline is a clear, nervous liquid 
which is composed of speed, noise, 
and trouble, in equal parts. It is made 
of kerosene reduced to a more vio
lent stage and is kindly supplied to 
the restless portion of mankind by 
the fragments of the late Standard 
Oil Company.Tech News.
SENIOR CIVIL BANQUET, 
JAN. 10, 1914.
Attended by an air of profound 
scholarly meditation that is cognizant 
with all such gatherings of noted 
thinkers, the Senior Civils held their 
annual banquet at that haunt of the 
fashionable, the Hotel Morlein, on 
Saturday night. Among those pres
ent were: Messrs. Wood, Hunter, DeMuth, Brine, Urquhart, Culp, Oberlin, McGill and Keeler.
Mr. Poague, late of Carnegie Tech., 
and now a practicing engineer, also
honored us with his distinguished 
presence. Dinner was served to 
seven; the haunting strains of the 
Hungarian orchestra, hidden among 
a bower of palms, the brilliant fund 
of wit and repartee, aiding to make 
the affair one of the gayest of the 
season. After passing around half 
dollar perfectos and tipping the head 
and only waiter, thirty-five cents, the 
party motored to the Oakland The
ater and witnessed the show from a 
box, purchased by Mr. DeMuth for 
the evening, at enormous expense.
A Gem of Comfort.
A bacteriologist says millions of 
germs ride on crowded trolley cars. 
Im not surprised to hear that. A 
germ is about the only thing that 
could ride on a crowded trolley car 
with any degree of comfort.Birm
ingham Age-Herald.
ARE YOU INTERESTED?
In a clear enunciation and correct 
pronounciation of English? It is of 
paramount importance in every career 
and contributes to success.
Having had a large experience in 
teaching along this line, and with grat
ifying results, particularly among for
eign college men I confidently offer 
my services to any who may require 
such instruction.
SARA E. SIMPSON,
312 Biddle Ave., 
Wilkinsburg, Pa. 
Eell Tel. 72C-L Wilkins.
best in town. They will give you
BRACE BROS. 
LAUNDRY
BENTON AVENUE 
WILKINSBURG 
Bell Phone, Wilkins 23
ENTERPRISE PRESSING COMPANY 
Cleaners and Dyers
Perfect Work in Ladies, Children* and 
Household Work.
Oriental Rugs and Draperies a Specialty 
203 Highland Bldg. Pittsburgh, Pa.
Fhones: Office 449 Hiland Works: 4912 Hiland
R. E. JACQUES, Teacher
of Dancing and Deportment
COR. CRAIG AND FORBES STREETS 
PITTSBURGH. PA.
Bell Phone 91 24-R Schenley 
Vice President of the International Association 
Masters of Dancing
The upper classmen all patronize us
atPlPeb s,CP ,oPm vrn dPg vcquvirgPn 
Hair Cutting our specialty 25 Cents
Harry F. Van Coren's 
TECH BARBER SHOP
Craig and Forbes Street, Pittsburgh, Pa.
the best prices and quality.We recommend the merchants advertising in the Tartan as the

---------------------------------------------------

fj? larlatt5
DEANS COLUMN.
Webster gives three definitions of 
the term gentleman which show clear
ly the changes which have resulted 
in our ideas, of gentility with the 
growth of th democratic ideal. The 
obsolete definitiona man well born; 
one entitled to bear a coat of arms; 
the English law definitiona respect
able man who engages in no profes
sion regularly for gain; the modern 
definitiona well bred man of fine 
feelings, especially one of good char
acter, raised above the vulgar by edu
cation, habits and social esteem 
these three definitions picture the gen
tleman first at a period when his right 
to the title depended solely upon good 
birththen we see him as a man of 
means and leisure with a distaste for 
labor which often amounted to con
tempt and lastly at a period when his 
claim is based entirely upon personal 
qualities, habits and character. Good 
birth still has a value in providing a 
background of good breeding, wealth 
and leisure still are an advantage in 
that they furnish opportunity for train
ing, but it is now superfluous even to 
state that neither good birth nor 
wealth themselves confer upon a man 
the title of a gentleman or indeed are 
at all essential to our modern con
ception of the gentleman.
Nor do we need to state that the 
gentleman may be on intimate terms 
with laborindeed that efficiency is 
now regarded as an essential quali
fication. Certainly in America no 
shirk could be called a gentleman. 
But we do need to emphasize the fact 
that the right to the title of gentle
man does not depend upon the char
acter of ones profession or vocation. 
We sometimes thoughtlessly desig
nate some occupations as gentlemens 
callings, and assume that the man so 
engaged is a gentlemanwhile toward 
others we assume the reverse attitude. 
If our distinctions were made on the 
ground that certain occupations 
through dealings with the finer things 
have a reflex influence on the work
man, there would be some justifica
tion for our attitude. In reality, how
ever, they are based upon entirely dif
ferent grounds and are mostly undem
ocratic. As a matter of fact occupa
tions demanding skill of the eye and 
hand as great refining influences as the 
so-called intellectual professions. Al
most anything done as well as it can 
be done has the refining power of art. 
The skilled workman, to whom his 
work is an art, has the possible re
wards of the artist.
It a technical training productive of 
the culture demanded of a gentle
man? The old idea of the roads to 
culture had its origin in a supersti
tion of the middle ages. Seven was 
a sacred number which was supposed 
to be the key to the order of the uni
verse. The fact that there were 
seven cardinal virtues, seven deadly 
sins, seven sacraments, seven days in 
the week, seven metals, seven planets, 
and seven apertures in a mans heap 
was taken to prove conclusively that
the course of liberal study should con
sist of seven subjects and occupy sev
en years. Another fancy about the re
lation of three to four led to the 
division of these seven subjects into 
the Trivium of Grammar, Logic, and 
Rhetoric and the Quadrivium of Arith
metic, Geometry, Astronomy and 
Music. For more than eight cen
turies these magic seven constituted 
the accepted means of attaining that 
mental and moral training which we 
call culture. Even after the advances 
of science had proved the existence 
of other useful fields of knowledge the 
Trivium and Quadrivium were regard
ed as the sole avenues to true culture. 
In these days, however, not only has 
the usefulness and necessity of a 
knowledge of the sciences been uni
versally accepted, but it has also been 
proved that merely as a means of men
tal training the sciences are at least 
as efficient as the older studies, and 
the scientific method has established 
itself as the true method for the ex
tension of knowledge in all fields. The 
intimate relation of scientific knowl
edge with the life of today affords 
further evidence of the cultural effect 
of a scientific training, for culture is 
valuable chiefly in its social aspects. 
We have now come to see that there 
is no necessary conflict between util
ity and beautythat, indeed, the nice 
adjustment of the created thing to its 
use is itself an element of beauty. We 
now recognize that the constructive 
imagination which designs a great 
bridge or an intricate mechanism is 
of the same order as the genius which 
produces a masterpiece of literature.
We have, therefore, now come to 
regard culture not as the product of 
the possession of a litlle exclusive in
formation, but as the result of an atti
tudean attitude marked by keenness 
of perception, openness of mind, 
broadness of sympathies and respect 
for achievements in all fields of knowl
edge and labor. Given this attitude 
the fields of literature and history, 
art and music hold a charm for the 
technical student as well as for his 
acadetmic brother. This attitude can 
be developed through technical train
ing at least as successfully as through 
an academic course of study. The 
roads to culture are many.
There are, however, two character
istics which are so universally recog
nized as to become almost the hall 
marks of the cultured gentleman, viz., 
a reasonably correct and refined use 
of the mother tongue, and good man
ners. For the first accomplishment 
scientific training does much. Clear 
and accurate statement, logical devel
opment of thought and simplicity of 
expression are particularly necessary 
in scientific reports and writings. 
With few exceptions our greatest 
scientists are taking their places in 
literature. The importance of this 
training should, however, be more 
greatly emphasized upon our technical 
students. As to the second charac
teristic of the gentleman, good man
ners, I can add little to what has been 
said recently in the Tartan by the 
caustic pen of the author of Whats 
What and How. I would only reTrue ValuesB. 8c B.True Values
CHOCOLATES
iug caps at lowest prices
For style, quality and durability you can depend on any cap 
purchased here.
We carry only reliable goods and the prices are the lowest quoted 
anywhere.Boggs PI Buhl,Pittsburgh, Penn'a.
Forbes Quality Shop
Corner Forbes and Bouquet StreetLUNCHES
CANDY, SODA. CIGARS, MAGAZINE
peat two sayings of Emerson which 
have often been quoted in this connec
tion and which taken together are 
helpful in forming an estimate of the 
true character and relative importance 
of good manners. They areGood 
manners are made up of constant and 
petty sacrifices and Give me a 
thought, and my hands and legs and 
voice and face will all go right. It 
is only when mind and character slum
ber that the dress can be seen. With 
the proper attitude we soon learn to 
draw nice distinctions between what 
is right and what is not right which 
are at the root of conventions which 
govern good society. Here again it 
lies within the power of the technical 
school to develop this attitude, a pos
sibility which I am afraid that we have 
neglected somewhat more than our 
sister academic institutions.
But the gentleman must have some
thing more than culturehe must have 
character. Without it the other attri
butes are but a superficial veneer. 
School regulations can make require
ments of the habits of promptness, 
outward courtesy and honestythey 
can only point the way to honor, and 
honor must be the controlling motive 
in the Hue gentleman. According to 
Webster honor is a nice sense of 
what is right, just and true, with 
course of life correspondent thereto. 
As we have said, this is not a product 
of regulations; it is the result of a 
cultivation of a nice sensitiveness 
which finds expression in the attitude 
of the individual toward all his work 
and play. The institution can do some
thin- toward the development of this 
attitude: the student body can do more 
by insistence upon a spirit which will 
make it impossible to do those things 
which a gentleman does not do even 
if not specially forbidden by the laws 
of scholastic work or athletic contests.
A fe v years ago a statue of Thomas 
Hughes was unveiied at Rugby which 
was made the occasion of a great per
sonal tribute to the author of Tom 
Brc-wn at Rugby, but which found its 
chief significance in the fact that it 
was a lecogniticn of the change that 
has taken place in a generation in the 
sentiment of the great schools of Eng
land. Of this change it has been said
OUR MESSENGER
GOOD
CLOTHESCHEAPER
Clothiers, Tailors,
Hatters, Furnishers
504-506 Federal Street, N. S. 
THE STANDARD OF EXCELLENCE
MOWS
Candies and Ice Cream Sodas, 
Dainty Lunch.
Tables for Ice Cream.
Fancy Boxes, Baskets, Flavors, etc.
208 Sixth Street, Pittsburgh, Pa.
It has been announced that $5,000 
has been given to Columbia Univers
ity by an anonymous donor for equip
ment for research in wireless teleg
raphy.Wireless Age.Continued on Page 6
We recommend the merchants advertising in the Tartan as the best in town. They will give you the best prices and quality.

---------------------------------------------------

fi
Deans Column
Continued from Page 5.
It substituted honor and loyalty in 
place of fear and vesion on the part 
of the scholar. It established the prin
ciple of fair play in every school and 
college; it put down the mean and 
cowardly; it taught fellows not to lie, 
or cheat, but to be honest and plucky 
at any cost; it made sports genuine 
and manly; it built up athletics in 
place of degrading pastimes; it set 
up as the true type of schoolboy the 
clean, wholesome, well-trained, fear
less honorable fellow, who won fairly, 
if he won at all, in study or play. 
This new ideal of school life was 
brought about through schoolboys and 
undergraduates under the inspiration, 
if not the leadership, of Thomas 
Hughes.
The schools and colleges of this 
country have profited indirectly by 
the work of this most distinguished 
schoolboy. There is probably not 
the need of great reforms herethe 
attitude in the main is good. Much 
is still to be done, however, in the 
fostering of the highest ideals of honor. 
The school that most nearly reaches 
that ideal will not only be best serving 
its own students but will be render
ing the highest service to the Com
munity and nation. Here, as in Eng
land, it must come about through the 
organized efforts of students them
selves during their school and college 
life. Here, as elsewhere, ther is need
ed a leader.
We conclude, therefore, that the 
production of that desirable factor in 
our social and business life, the gen
tleman, is as possible for the technical 
as for the academic institution. That 
it is not the invariable and necessary 
product is to be regretted.
JOHN H. LEETE.
LETTER FROM GRADUATE.
An interesting letter was received 
by Dean Connelley from Southey G. 
Johnson, 13, a graduate of the Teach
ers Course, School of Applied Indutries. Mr. Johnson is teaching Man
ual Training to colored children in 
Okmulgee, Oklahoma. Okmulgee, he 
writes, is a town of about 8,500, about 
2,500 of whom are colored. It is in 
the centre of a rich oil, gas and agri
cultural district. In connection with 
his School work, he writes:
The Manual Training Department 
is equipped for eighteen boys in wood 
working, a set of general tools, grind
stone, and a set of wood finishes. Five 
hundred feet of southern pine and 
white oak each were given and the 
work begun. I could readily see that 
they wanted results and that right 
soon. So the preliminary course was 
planned to meet the local conditions; 
that is, to develop habits of observa
tion, accurate thinking, and skill in the 
use of tools.
The following is an account of the 
work up to date: Construction of
shelves for the Domestic Science and 
Manual Training laboratories; lumber 
rack for the same; a ten-foot service
table for the sewing room; putting 
new Yale locks on the doors, and put
ting in window panes.
The second week actual technical 
work was begun. A six weeks course 
in knife work, followed by joinery 
leading to the construction of small 
furniture of simple design.
The instructor has to lay out the 
work, lecture, demonstrate, and give 
individual instruction.
We have now on exhibition, some 
attractive magazine, newspaper, post
card, towel, necktie, book and wall 
china racks, a number of taborets ar
tistically finished in flemished and 
fumed oak, foot-stools of plain and 
fancy design, some with cane bottoms.
The smaller things, such as pen 
trays, spool holders, boxes, broomholders, bread, sleeve and cake boards, 
deserve special mention. A boy in the 
seventh grade made a five-foot step 
ladder, which is serviceable about the 
building.
The boys of all grades were per
mitted to make many Christmas pres
ents for their relatives and friends, 
which were highly appreciated.
I will not permit a boy to make a 
thing that is not useful, and never 
accept poor work. I am pleased to say 
that there is not a single backward 
member in my class.
We are preparing to attend the Col
ored Teachers State Convention to be 
held in Boley, the negro town, Janu
ary 1, 2, and 3. The writer is on pro
gram.
The Department is almost self-sup
porting, that is, the money from the 
sale of articles made almost supplies 
the department with material to car
ry on the work. Many useful things 
are constructed out of such things as 
dry goods boxes.
The children are taught to repair 
and refinish furniture, and also to re
pair tin ware, and are encouraged to 
take orders for the construction of 
such things as are within range of their 
ability and skill.
The correlation of the academic and 
manual training are working in fine 
order.
Mechanical drawing will start after 
the holidays, and alternate among the 
boys of the 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th and 
12th grades, continuing to the end of 
the school year.
Some large pieces of furniture may 
be constructed and some vocational 
problems solved.
The fact that the boys have remained 
in school instead of looking for work 
they could not find, has increased their 
powers of observation as well as their 
usefulness.
It has enabled them to improve their 
homes and given them a broader 
knowledge of the industries of the 
country.
Such has been the effort for the past 
four months, and we trust to make 
many improvements during the next 
five months of the school year.
Is she going to the Prom with you? 
Yes! Oh, you lucky fellow.
WILL CARNEGIE BE REPRE
SENTED IN TRACK?
New Outdoor Track Must Be Imme
diately Provided.
The above question is directed to 
the powers that be and to those in 
whose hands the solution of the diffi
culty lies, in the hope that some im
mediate action may be taken. If Tech 
is to be represented in track this com
ing spnng, a suitable outdoor track 
for training must be provided. The 
addition to the Margaret Morrison 
School, extending across one end of 
the present cinder path, has rendered 
the latter unavailable for use.
As soon as the weather will permit 
the board track will be erected as in 
the two preceding years, so that the 
runners may condition themselves for 
the indoor meets. In the first of 
these, held under the auspices of the 
Crafton A. A. on January thirty-first, 
a number of Tech men will be entered 
individually. On February twentyfirst, an entire squad will compete in 
the Y. M. C. A. meet and on March 
fourteenth, the annual dual affair with 
Westinghouse Club will take place. 
Immediately following the indoor sea
son, outdoor practice will be started 
in preparation for the spring meets. 
Manager Miller has arranged an at
tractive schedule which requires but 
the signing of the contracts to com
plete it.
March fourteenth, the date of the 
last indoor meet, is only seven weeks 
off. During that short time the task 
of providing a new track must be ac
complished if there is to be a suc
cessful Plaid team. The Schenley 
Oval has been mentioned as a suitable 
place for practicing, but it is out of 
the question because of its distance 
from school and its lack of dressing 
room accommodations. Another sug
gestion has been made, which, if pos
sible, we should like to see carried 
out, namely, the laying of a track on 
the proposed new athletic field. A 
portion of this plot of ground is now 
being used, but we believe the ob
stacles, required for the Margaret 
Morrison School building operations, 
could be placed in a position that 
would not interfere with the track.
The solution of the question under 
discussion is more serious that first 
thought may indicate. The new track 
will probably be permanent and its 
location must, therefore, be carefully 
selected. We hope the immediate ne
cessity for a new track has been made 
evident and furthermore trust that un
like our friend from The Beauty 
Shop, who was all dressed up but 
had no place to go, the track men will 
not find themselves adorned in their 
track uniforms with not place to run.
TECH STUDIO CLUB DANCE.
The Tech Studio Club will give an 
informal Hop in the corridors of 
the Design Building, Saturday even
ing, the 24th. The entire Design 
School is invited.
ARROW
^(COLLARCluctt, Peabody & Co., Inc. Makers
Sporting Goods, Cutlery, 
College Pennants, 
Banners and Pillow Tops.
(MILL HUNTER (0.
4i4 Wood Street.
BELL PHONE 239 SCHENLEYWekr Express & Storage Co.
Moving, Packing and Storing of 
Furniture and Pianos. General Hauling 
Baggage to and from Depot
4616-18-20 Henry St., Pittsburgh, Pa
flOWERS fOR AIL OCCASIONS
Randolph PI Me Clements
FLORAL EXPERTS
5936 Penn Avenue 
Near Highland Ave.
i C. M. STAUFT s.? o(5 Stationery, News, Etc. $
Gentlemans Watches ^ and Repairing. -
^ 3702 Forbes St. Pittsburgh, Pa.
Mellon National Bank
514 Smithfield Street
409 Fifth Avenue
Capital and Surplus $8,000,000
Handsome homes, congenial 
surroundings, healthful location and 
convenience to all places, all com
bined in
SCHENLEY FARMS
Liberty Cleaning and 
Pressing Co.
301 S. Craig St. Cor., of Winthrop St. 
Bell Phone Schenley 309
Goods called for and delivered.
We recommend the merchants advertising in the Tartan as the best in town. They will give you the best prices and quality.

---------------------------------------------------

fe lariattr
A WILD NIGHT WITH MGILL 
AT PRINCESS THEATRE 
IN MONTRAEL.
Whether or not McGills theatre 
night, which took place in Montreal 
at the Princess a few weeks ago, and 
which resulted in the curtain being 
run down before the attraction, The 
Glad Eye, had been half played, was 
a success or not will remain an un
solved puzzle until the end of time.
From the standpoint of the sopho
mores and freshmen who lined the 
balconies of the theatre in an unbrok
en, wierdly-garbed, rah-rahing mass it 
undoubtedly was; in the minds of the 
faculty it created an impression which 
will have the effect of theatre night 
being terminated for good and all; to 
the indirectly concerned audience 
seated in the orchestra it was nothing 
mor or less than an hour of torture.
It was quite obvious that the ma
jority of the members of the under
graduate body of McGill attended the 
theatre for the sole purpose of taking 
advantage of their opportunities and 
setting a record which future genera
tions will endeavor to emulate. It was 
quite obvious also, that they succeed
ed. To smash the record established 
one would have to demolish the play
house. And herein lies any shame 
which certain individualsoutside of 
the faculty, of coursemight perhaps 
attach to the occasion. The student 
body entered the Princess on the ex
press understanding that they would 
behave in a decorous and at least re
spectable manner. Moreover, to as
sist them in making the evening a 
success despite this condition, they 
were sanctioned by the university au
thorities and given a grant.
The fact remains that not the slight
est effort was made by the men them
selves, with the exception of a few 
half-hearted attempts on the part of 
the seniors, to live up to their promise. 
It was a great evening for them, there 
is no disputing that, but they will 
without the slightest doubt have to 
pay the penalty.
A little praise, however, is due them. 
To start the ball rolling before eight 
oclock in the evening and keep it on 
the move until close on to ten, requires 
considerable ability and lung power.
McGill entered the theatre about a 
quarter to eight after an illuminated 
march through the city streets which 
will remain vivid in the memories of 
the onlookers for a long time. Inside 
preparations had been made. Threads 
had been strung across the body of the 
house, innumerable rolls of paper 
stringers, fruit, vegetables, heavy rolls 
of paper, live fowl, rabbits, pigeons and 
innumerable other products of the 
animal and vegetable world had been 
provided in a generous manner, that 
was only surpassed by the liberal way 
in which they were later used.
And then the audience came, the au
dience which had paid in its good 
money to look at a production which 
had come to Montreal as a suitable 
city in which to give the play its in
augural presentation in the Dominion. 
Cheers expressive of animal joy rent 
the air, confetti and other objects
began to fly, and, generally speaking, 
the students began to start things.
With the rise of the curtain the 
noise, singing, hollering and cheering 
did not subside in the slightest. A 
member of the company came on the 
stage, started to recite his lines, and 
elicited a roar that made the electric 
light bulbs dance in their settings. 
Even the short overture could not be 
heard. Handfuls of peas began to 
find their way down the necks of the 
actors, a cabbage went rolling drunkenly from one of the stage boxes to 
the other side of the stage, a pigeon 
came fluttering frantically from the 
gods into the scenery, and paper 
stringers began to twine themselves 
lovingly around the shoulders and 
arms of the actors.
It might be mentioned that more 
than a little commendation is due the 
members of the company for the nerve 
they displayed in the face of circum
stances which were, to say the least, 
confusing. To dramatically throw 
ones arms around a fellow player 
when peas are irresistably finding their 
way into ones eyes and ears, and 
every gesture one makes is greeted 
with a yell that would make the aver
age gridiron cheer sound like a whis
per of the wind, requires more than 
usual strategy and presence of mind. 
The people of The Glad Eye com
pany, however, succeeded very well.
Not, of course, that they didnt re
ceive lots of encouragement. They did. 
When one character came on the 
stage with a heavy coat on the audi
ence thought him too heavily garbed. 
Take off that coat, a squeaky voice 
from the niggers heaven cried. The 
cry was repeated, and with each repe
tition it increased in volume. Take 
off that coat roared the entire house. 
He did.
As regards the play itself the critic 
has only a very dim recollection. The 
greater part of the time he was busy 
unfurling paper stringers from his 
ears or picking peas from underneath 
his collar. And then, how could he' 
gropq for errors in delineation when 
hens were sedately walking under the 
feet of the players, cabbages were 
hurtling across the stage, bunches of 
lettuce were whizzing past his eyes, 
and the lady a few seats away was 
vainly endeavoring to extract a live 
lizard from her lap, while at the same 
time holding a perfumed handkerchief 
to her nose to drown a sneeze, caused 
by the sneezing powders, the fumes 
of which were permeating the atmo
sphere.
As was before stated, it is purely 
problematical whether theatre night 
was the unqualified success anticipated. 
A few people suffered agony for the 
best part of two hours; but the great 
majority enjoyed themselves. If there 
is any penalty to be paid the students 
who got the most fun out of the affair 
will pay it. So who will object? 
(From a Montreal newspaper.)
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON
PENN AND FRANKSTOWN AVENUE, EAST END.
We are now REBUILDING and when completed we 
will have one of the most complete and modern exclusive 
SHOE STORES in Greater Pittsburgh.
Oar business continued while rebuilding, NEW FALL 
BOOTS are arriving daily.
WEVE FITTED FEET OYER FORTY YEARS.
ORCHESTRA.
Has that girl been giving you some 
home cooked meals? Better take her 
to the Prom and youll get some 
more.
The rehearsal of the C. I. T. Or
chestra last Wednesday showed that 
considerable interest has been taken in 
this organization this year, especially 
by the old men, who realize what 
profit and practice they can obtain. 
New men were conspicuous by their 
absence. This shows a great lack of 
interest, and the management hopes 
that at the next rehearsals more new 
men will show up.
A director has been secured, and a 
good supply of music obtained, and 
the way the rehearsals have started 
point to a successful year. To induce 
men to come out for the orchestra, 
the manager is endeavoring to obtain 
suitable insignia for those who attend 
the required number of rehearsals dur
ing the year.
Rehearsals are held every Monday 
at 5:00 in room 104 of the Indus
tries building. Last year the member
ship numbered from fifteen to twenty 
men. This year, we want to boost 
this number considerably. Many men 
who should be out, taking an active 
part in this activity, seem to be under 
the impression that they cannot play 
their instruments sufficiently well to 
belong to the orchestra. To these men 
we can say that no matter how little 
instruction they may have had, the 
director is always willing to help them 
in all ways possible, and we hope they 
will report for rehearsals hereafter. 
Now, fellows, get some pep and 
come out. We want to see 30 men 
at the next rehearsal, so YOU come 
and do your part in making a good 
orchestra. Dont forget the time, 
every Monday at 5:00, until further 
notice. Watch the Tartan and bulle
tin boards. Students from all schools, 
night or day, are eligible. The follow
ing instruments are used: violin, viola, 
bass, clarinet, flute, cornet, trombone, 
cello, drums, piano, etc.
The Oakland 
Savings & Trust Co.
VANADIUM BUILDING
Capital $200,000.00
Surplus and Profits $200,000.00
Deposits over $1,700,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
The Hotel Schenley Barber Shop
solicits your patronage. Our service is 
second to none at the regular prices
M. J. Chemoff, Proprietor.
The Genuine Step of
Tango, One Step, Maxixe 
and Hesitations 
McDOUGALL DANCING ACADEMIES
4616 Forbes St., and Shady and Penn Aves. 
SPECIAL TANGO CLASS MONDAY EVENINGS
THE D. L. AULD CO.
MANUFACTURING JEWELERS 
AND STATIONERS 
Columbus, Boston, Philadelphia, Chicago, Pittsburgh 
FRATERNITY BADGES. CLASS PINS AND RINGS 
ENGRAVED INVITATIONS 
DANCE PROGRAMS
REGINALD TUTHILL 
Representative for Penna. Bell, Hiland M2I-R 
P. O. Box 984________________PITTSBURGH, PA.
The old system of using a heated 
iron and dirty cloth presses the grime 
and dirt into your garments. Our 
sanitary machine steams it all out, and 
removes permanently the dirt, per
spiration, odor and grime. See Shu
man, the Dry Cleaner, 3911 Forbes 
street.Adv.
A football comic was issued at Stan
ford recently depicting in a humorous 
vein, the events of the big Rugby 
game between Stanford and Califor
nia.
Better get the smell of the moth 
balls off that suit.
University women at Missouri have 
opened the hockey season there with 
a game between the sophomores and 
juniors.
We recommend the merchants advertising in the Tartan as th e best in town. They will give you the best prices and quality.

---------------------------------------------------

8Stye (Harlan
BENNETTS
Now men, if you desire to wear a BENNETT DERBY 
or SOFT HAT, this is your opportunity to get one 
ii J V formerly priced $4 or $5. We are making a clean-up of 
our Winter Stock. There are all shapes and sizes, and in 
the Soft Hats different collors.
Also $2 and $2.50 Cloth Hats for $1.50 
Also $2 and $2.50 Winter Caps for$ 1.50 
Also $5 Velour Hats for - $4.00
And our SPECIAL PROPOSITION to Tech Students goes on the above.
"bns . J. 0. BlNNlIT & (0. wood-fifth1. FIFTH
The Rittenhouse Bail Room
Affords The Best Ventilation, The Best Floor,
Most Privacy for
THE JUNIOR PROM, THE SENIOR BALL
or any similar functions given by Carnegie Tech Students
W. R. KUHN CO.
The JUNIOR PROM
WILL BE HELD
FRIDAY NIGHT, FEBRUARY 20
-ATTHE RITTENHOUSE
Subscription Five Dollars Music by Nirella
CLASSIFIED LIST OF TARTAN ADVERTISERS
We have classified our advertisers so that our readers may use the list 
for reference before making purchases. The grouping furnishes an excellent 
variety of merchants for any article which a student, alumnus or faculty 
member would be likely to buy, and there is no valid reason of which we are 
aware that would justify anyone interested in the welfare of The Tartan in 
making purchases from any but merchants who so kindly make such a publi
cation possible. Be sure, also, to give one of the purchase stubs, which you 
will find enclosed in your Tartan every other week, to the clerk from whom' 
you make the purchase. The stubs, we have found, jnake pleased advertisers 
and help to get new ones. May we depend upon YOU to take this as a re
sponsibility to your Institution and to The Tartan.
SCIENTIFIC AND ENGINEER
ING NOTES.
The reduction of speed and other 
hindrances to navigation which are 
caused by barnacles and similar ma
rine growth on the submerged por
tion of a ships hull are remembered 
as very real troubles by those who 
have had any experiences with ships, 
large or small, especially where drydock facilities were poor or entirely 
lacking. A novel device known as a 
torpedo submarine cleanser, which 
has been, recently tested in England, 
appears to afford method of over
coming these difficulties which is 
worthy of consideration. The vessel 
selected for treatment, a screw 
steamer of some 3,000 tons, was 
cleansed one day and dry-docked on 
the following day for inspection, 
when it was seen that the work had 
been successfully accomplished. The 
entire plant is carried on a self-pro
pelled barge, 30 feet long and 12 feet 
6 inches in beam, and can be used in 
dock, river or open sea. Motive 
power is obtained from a 30-horse
power petrol engine directly coupled 
to a Bruce Peebles dynamo. Current
is supplied to three motors, one of 
which is used to propel the vessel, 
one to control the raising and lower
ing of the brush gear, and the third 
to drive the brush itself. The brush, 
which is 5 feet long and about 1 foot 
in diameter, is made of coir fibre, and 
can be unshipped and replaced in 15 
minutes. The frame in which it is 
mounted carries an enclosed motor, 
which in addition to driving the 
brush actuates a small screw propel
ler, the shaft of which is perpendicu
lar to the axis of the brush. This 
propeller forces the brush up to its 
work, and by keeping the water near 
to it in a state of agitation aids the 
cleaning operation. Air tanks at
tached to the brush frame reduce its 
weight when immersed to 1 l-2cwt. 
the out-of-water weight being some 
6cwt. The brush gear is suspended 
by two separate cables, which enable 
the brush to be passed under the 
bilge keels if necessary. The move
ments of the two lifting cables and 
of the electric cable leading to the 
brush motor are simultaneously con
trolled by a winch fitted with a dial 
to indicate the depth at which the
Ball and Party Accommodations
Hotel Schenley, Oakland.
The Rittenhouse, Highland Ave., 
E. E.
Banks
The Mellon National Bank, Smithfield and Fifth.
The Oakland Savings & Trust Co., 
Vanadium Bldg., Oakland.
Banquets and Dining Services 
Rittenhouse, Highland Ave., E. E. 
Schenley Hotel, Oakland.
Barbers
The Schenley Hotel Barber Shop. 
The Tech Barber Shop, Craig and 
Forbes Sts.
Cleaning and Pressing (Delivery 
Service)
Enterprise Pressing Co., Highland 
Bldg., E. E. Phone 449 Hiland. 
Liberty Cleaning and Pressing Co., 
Craig, near Forbes St. Tel. 
Schenley 309.
Oswald Werner and Sons, Bryant 
and St. Clair Sts., E. E. Tel., Hi
land 1138.
J. E. T. Shuman, Forbes, near Boquet St., Oakland. Tel., Schen
ley 874.
Clothing
Boggs & Buhl, Federal St., N. S. 
Browning, King Co., 441 Wood St 
Joseph Horne Co., Penn Ave. 
McCreery Co., Sixth and Wood Sts 
Strassburger & Joseph, Federal St 
near Ohio, N. S.
Confectioners
Forbes Quality Shop, Forbes and 
Boquet Sts., Oakland.
McDonalds, 208 Sixth St.
Reymers, Fifth Ave., downtown, 
Penn Ave., E. E.
The Rittenhouse, Highland Ave., 
E. E. .
C. M. Stauft, Forbes and Atwood 
Sts., Oakland.
Dancing Academies
Jacques, Craig and Forbes.
Department Stores
Boggs & Buhl, Federal St., N. S. 
Jos. Horne Co., Penn Ave. 
McCreery Co., Sixth and Wood.
Draughtsmans and Artists Supplies 
Geo. L. Kopp, Smithfield and Sev
enth, upstairs one flight.
Kurtz, Langbein & Schwartz, oppo
site McCreerys.
brush is working, the maximum be
ing 32 feet. It is stated that the ma
chine is capable of cleaning a 3,000- 
ton ship in six hours, and the weight 
of the entire plant, barge included, is 
given as eleven tons.The Tech.
The new dances have found great 
favor with the faculty at Missouri, and 
as a result numerous soirees are held.
Florists
Randolph & McClements, Penn, 
near Highland, E. E. Tel., Hi
land 25.
Furniture
Boggs & Buhl, Federal St., N. S. 
Joseph Horne Co., Penn Ave.
J. G. Marshall, 959 Liberty. 
McCreery & Co., Sixth and Wood 
Sts.
Haberdashery
Aufhammer & E\ans, 6100 Penn
Ave.
J. G. Bennett Co., Wood and Fifth. 
Boggs & Buhl, Federal St., N. S. 
Browning, King & Co., 441 Wood 
St.
Cluett - Peabody Cos, shirts and collars.
Heimerts, Oakland.
Joseph Horne Co., Penn Ave. 
McCreery Co., Wood and Sixth Sts. 
Strassburger & Joseph, Federal St., 
N. S.
Hardware
Hukill-Hunter Co., 414 Wood St.
Laundries (Delivery Service)
Brace Bros., Wilkinsburg. Tel.
Moving Picture Theatres
The Cameraphone, Penn Ave., E. E.
Real Estate
The Schenley Farms Co., Farmers 
Bank Bldg.
Shoes
Boggs & Buhl, Federal St., N. S. 
Joseph Horne Co., Penn Ave.
P. Ludebuehl & Son, Penn and 
. Frankstown Aves., E. E.
Geo. H. Stoebener & Son, Penn and 
Frankstown Aves., E. E.
Sporting Goods
Hukill-Hunter & Co., 414 Wood St.
See Mr. Lockhart.
A. G. Spalding & Bros., Wood and 
Sixth Sts.
Tobacconists
Schenley Hotel.
C. M. Stauft, Forbes and Atwood 
Sts., Oakland.
Transfer and Storage
Webber Express and Storage Co., 
4616-20 Henry St. Tel., Schen
ley 239.
Typewriters
The Underwood Typewriter Co., 
Liberty Ave.
lumbia is the largest educational in
stitution in the United States.
Williams College has abolished 
pushball and substituted soccer and 
revised tug of war contests for the 
sophomores and freshmen.
With a registration of 10,000, CoWe recommend the merchants advertising in the Tartan as th e best in town. They will give you the best prices and quality.
