Vol. X. No. 28(Jaran
Vol.XN2X 8.6,2,1,X 9M rXER.9a9Nym n2,,6d1lNRm nX..6yaBo.2oApril 26, 1916
MR. BOSSANGE APPOINTED DEAN
Has Acted as Secretary of the School 
of Applied Design Since 
September
Mr. E. Raymond Bossanges ap
pointment as Dean of the School of 
Applied Design was confirmed by the 
Board of Trustees of the Carnegie 
Institute upon April 1st. Prior to his 
appointment, Mr. Bossange acted 
as Secretary of the School of Ap
plied Design, coming here in Septem
ber direct from the University of Cor
nell.
Mr. Bossange comes into his new 
office well equipped. He has had ex
perience in the study, practice and 
teaching of art and architecture. 
He is a great lover of music. A 
number of extensive European trips 
brought him into sympathetic appre
ciation with the wonderful art of the 
old world. His study in Europe be
gan at Rome, where h** ar
chitecture under Garnier and later 
Sculpture. Mr. Bossange won the 
tive positions with the firms Carmare in Europe and New York. About 
this time Mr. Bossange won the 
medal offered by the Architectural 
League.
After practicing in New York for 
twelve years. Mr. Bossange held ac
tive positions with the firms Carriere and Hastings, and Warren and 
Wetmore, architects, and with Ear
nest Flagg. Later Mr. Bossange be
came professor of design at Cornell. 
He is a native of Paris, France, but
has been a citizen of the United
States since he became of age.
Continued on Page 6
W. & J. AND TECH COMBINED 
MUSICAL CLUBS MEET IN 
CONCERT.
FOUNDERS DAT ANNUAL EVENT
EXERCISES IN MUSIC H AIL, WELL KNOWN SPEAKER PRESEN!
OUR BASEBALL PROSPECTS FOR 1916
The recurrence of Founders Day 
which is the result of a wish among 
Faculty and students of the Institute 
of Technology to recognize in some 
way their gratefulness to the Founder 
for the gifts he has made and the apportunities he has furnished; marks 
another beacon light along the march 
of Tech progress. No other day of 
the year should strike more truly to 
the hearts of Tech students than 
that of Founders Day; nor should 
any other celebration more complete
ly win our attention and ardent co
operation.. Since the completion of 
the first building in 1895, a Founders 
Day has been annually observed in 
April by the trustees of the Carnegie 
Institue; formal exercises being held 
in the Music Hall, to which prominent 
persons in the various civic, indus
trial, educational, religious and social 
fields have been invited.
A very unique program has been 
prepared for the celebration of this 
annual event which is to take place 
this afternoon in the Carnegie Music 
Hall, at four oclock.
Mr. S. H. Church, President of the 
Carnegie Institute, will open the exer
cises and introduce Mr. John Basset 
Moore, the principle speaker of the 
afternoon. Mr. Moore is recognized 
as the best authority on international 
Law in the land and is a man of 
strong presence and a powerful 
speaker. He was professor of Inter
national Law at the Cornell Univer
sity several years, resigning that posi
tion to become First Assistant Sec
retary of State during President Tafts 
and Wilsons administration. Leav
ing the government service about two 
years ago, he accepted a professor
ship at the University of Columbia.
Dr. G. A. Dillinger, will present his 
annual report, as Secretary of the 
Carnegie Institute,
The music for the afternoon will be 
of a high degree of excellence. Mr. 
Charles Heinroth, organist and Di
rector of Music of the Carnegie Insti
tute, will play an organ prelude and 
postlude. The Student Symphony 
Orchestra of the Department of 
Music will render two selections un
der the direction of Mr. OBrien.
The Magic FluteOverture........
.................................................. Mozart
March,Queen of Sheba... Gounod
THREE HARD GAMES AHEAD.DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC.
Juniata, W. & J. and Pitt. Are Our 
Next Opponents.
The joint concert of the combined 
musical clubs of Washington and 
Jefferson College and Carnegie Inrtitute of Technology, has marked a 
new epoch in the history of our musi
cal clubs. Never before have the 
two clubs met on such an occasion, 
and nothing short of a grand suc
cess is impossible.
The ability of our own clubs is 
known to all. The men have been 
rehearsing regularly since the Home 
Concert and have given several con
certs as well. Those who heard the 
Home Concert were glad to have 
the opportunity to hear our boys 
again; those who missed the home
Continued on Page 2
Our next game will be played with 
Juniata on our field, Friday, April 
28. Last year they came down to en
joy our hospitality and beat us 9 to 6 
in a good game, so mat this season 
we have the opportunity to even the 
score.
We play W. & J. at Washington on 
the following day, Saturday, April 29. 
Although they have beaten us on the 
last two occasions, our average since 
1911 is .'>00, each team having won 
and lost three games. This game will 
afford a chance to break the deadlock 
and the team is pulling together 
and fighting hard we will give them 
a hard battle.
Pitt players here on the following 
Monday, May 1, and a hard game is 
looked forward to, but no matter who 
wins, there is sure to be plenty of 
action. Whenever we have met Pitt 
there has been much heavy hitting 
and spectacular fielding so that the 
team that is getting the breaks on 
May Day will probably be the winCoach Caldwell Doing Good Work. 
Many New Men Out.
Assists in Opening of Shakespeare 
Tercentenary Celebration in 
Pittsburgh.
The Shakespeare Tercentenary 
Celebration was set in motion in this 
city on the afternoon of April 11th, 
by the Tuesday Musical Club, where 
a varied program, of Shakespeare 
songs, music, folk dances and read
ings, was presented in the Assembly 
Room of the Soldiers Memorial Hall.
The music from Mid Summer 
Nights Dream (F. Mendelssohn 
Barthaldy) given by a sextet of 
strings from the orchestra of the 
School of Applied Design, Mr. 
OBrien conducting, was by no means 
the least iiroortant part of the pro
gram.
Mr O'Brien and the school have 
every reason to congratulate them
selves c'^er this performance; barring 
the Bach recital of last season, it is 
the most finished work yet produced 
by them
The delicacy and the brilliancy dis
played in the Overture" was remark
able; one was sensible of the flutter 
of the Fairies wings and the bending 
of the grass and flowers beneath their 
Continued on Page 6
We have just started our tenth sea
son in baseball and although the men 
have been slightly handicapped by the 
late vacation, they have worked hard 
and deserve our most loyal support. 
The schedule shows some hard games, 
but as the season is short we are con
fident that the players will make their 
stride early and not slow down until 
theyve showed that Tech Spirit to 
all our opponents.
Coach Caldwell is always on the 
job and considering the fact that he 
has had to familiarize himself with 
the players and the scholastic stand
ings required of them, he has done 
remarkably well. He has worked very 
hard with the new men and now has 
the entire squad in good shape, so 
it is the duty of every student to at
tend all the games and support our 
new coach and the team.
Our pitching department looks very 
promising, with Hines and Darling
ton both letter-men of last year, again 
on the team. They have been work
ing out every day and are slowly 
rounding into their old-time form. 
Kelley did considerable mound work 
with Phillips Andover last year and 
has been showing up well in practice. 
Watkins is a promising man for he 
bats well and is speedy both in field
ing and on the bases. He came out late 
last year but this season started with 
the first squad and with a little more 
experience will make a good man. 
Altdorfer has been showing up well 
and although his control is not per
fected he has a good, fast ball, and 
is a hard worker. Dimling is one of 
the new men who throws from the 
port side. He has a very easy deliv
ery and yet he gets a good break on 
Continued on Page 2
ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION TO 
GIVE DANCE.
An informal dance will be held by 
the C. I. T. Athletic Association on 
Friday evening, May 19, 1916, in the 
Carnegie Union.
White flannels and shirtwaists will 
be the proper attire for this unique, 
mid-season dance. The music will be 
of the best, and we warrant your feet 
will tingle from the moment the or
chestra strikes the first chord until 
it strikes the last.
Now if you want a really good time 
this May, and if you want to start 
the season right, youll be at the 
dance.

---------------------------------------------------

cTlip tartan2
lj? tartan
Published every Wednesday by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of Technology.
Entered in the post office of Pittsburgh as second class matter.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES. Yearly $1.50. Canada $1.75.5c the copy.
Editor-in-ChiefHarold L. Heilman, 16.Phone Schenley 9022-J. 
Managing Editor Edgar G. Hamilton, 17.Phone, Schenley 9070.
News EditorA. M. Staehle, 17.Phone, Schenley 9067 
Athletic Editor Charles H. Meredith, 17.
Art EditorA. Brady McSwigan, 17.
EditorsC. F. Peters, 16.P. N. Bossart, 16 Geo. A. Cook, 18Marguerite Menges, 16M. J. Wohlgemuth, 16. 
Associate Editors W. M. Swan, 18. R. E. Vernon, 18.Beatrice E. Heinrich, 18.J. R. Hoxworth, 17. Sue Smith, 17.R. E. Dake, 18.Alex Sharove, 18
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper, the Managing Editor for the make-up.All news items should be in Tartan boxes in the various buildings or in the student mail by Monday noon.The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest if signed, the signature to be withheld if desired.
Business ManagerPaul W. Emmel, 17 
Circulation ManagerB. M. Battey, 18.
Advertising ManagerA. J. Walker, 18.
All business communications should be sent to the Business Manager.Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported to the Business Manager at once.
PITTSBURGH, PA., APR. 26, 1916
THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION OF 
SCIENCE AND DESIGN.
Editors NoteDue to lack of space 
this was omitted from the Special 
Science Issue.
The Alumni Association of Science 
and Design Schools was organized on 
June 17th, 1908, at the 1908 class ban
quet. Sixty graduates of Science and 
Design were present and the follow
ing men were selected as the charter 
officers*
James M. Samson, President.
Albert Henderson, Vice President.
Roy Wallace, Treasurer.
M. Lucas, Secretary.
The first constitution was adopted 
at the first annual meeting on June 
17th, 1909. This constitution created 
a governing body of four officers and 
six governors, the ten men composing 
a Board of Governors.
Until 1910 the Alumni Association 
had no publication, at this time the 
Tartan was chosen as the official 
paper. In 1911 the Alumni Bulle
tin was started and was published 
as the official paper until 1914. In
1914 the paper was enlarged and put 
on a broader basis and was named 
The C. I. T. Alumnus. The other 
Alumni Associations of Carnegie 
were invited to assist in its publica
tion, and today The C. I. T. Alumnus 
is a graduate paper representing all 
four schools.
In December 1914, a number of
graduates living in the Youngstown 
District organized the first branch or
ganization. In September 1915, they 
were recognized as the Carnegie 
Tech Clan of Youngstown and Ma
honing Valley. This Clan comprises 
about thirty graduates and is a real 
live organization. Tech students who 
live in this district should report to 
the Youngstown Clan during vaca
tion time and become acquainted with 
the Tech Alumni located there. In 
October, 1915, a branch was organ
ized in Pittsburgh. Pittsburgh Clan 
meets twice a month for luncheon and 
has other social affairs which tend to 
keep the local Alumni in touch with 
each other and with the schools.
A scholarship was established in 
1913. The association expects to 
make this an annual scholarship and to 
give additional ones as the organiza
tion becomes larger and older.
We have not acquired the age yet 
to enable us to exhibit any famous 
reunions but we got a start last year 
when 1911 Class appeared on the 
campus on Class Day with a Dragon. 
We expect this feature of Alumni ac
tivity to grow.
Alumni Day at the School is an
other tradition which was started last 
year through the co-operation of 
Dean Leete.
The following men have held the 
presidency of the Association:
James M. Samson, 1908 to 1909.
George W. Ketter, 1909 to 1910.
George H. Smith, 1910 to 1912.
M. R. Walton, 1912 to 1913.
H. J. McCorkle, 1913 to 1915.
The present board of Governors is 
as follows:
J. W. Dougherty, President, Ralph 
Ehrenfeld, First Vice President; C. 
E. Gilson, Second Vice President; W.
H. Rieger, Secretary and Treasurer.
Governors: J. C. Hobbs, M. R.
Walton, F. R. Coggswell, E. R. Boots, 
Oscar Oetting.
While the above brief sketch shows 
nothing of a spectacular nature in the 
Alumni work, it does indicate that 
the Alumni and student body of C.
I. T. are gradually forming connec
tions which will eventually work for 
the advancement of our Alma Mater.
DIRECTOR SPEAKS ON PRE
PAREDNESS.
Director Hamerschlag spoke Wed
nesday morning to the upper-class 
students of the Fifth Avenue High 
School and in the evening before the 
Alumni Association Meeting. Pre
paredness was the subject of both 
his addresses.
Mr. Tarbell was recently elected 
First Vice President of the American 
Association of Collegiate Registrars, 
which was held at the Columbia Uni
versity, upon April 18, 19 and 20
About one hundred of the leading 
colleges and universities were repre
sented at the assembly and paper? 
were read by the leading registrars 
throughout the educational world. 
The Associations convention will be 
held in Pittsburgh next year.
Corporation School convention here 
May 30.
Mrs. McElhinney, who was Miss 
Mary McKee, died April 21st. Miss 
McElhinney acted as Mr. Hamerschlags private secretary for eight 
years and during that term of faith
ful service enriched her friendships 
among the officers in administration 
and the faculty to the fullest meas
ure. Less than a year ago she mar
ried Mr. McElhinney, a graduate of 
the University of Pittsburgh, now 
serving the American Steel Wire 
Company.
W. & J. AND TECH
Continued from Page 1 
concert should not have missed this 
opportunity.
W. & J. has one of the best clubs 
in its history. They have given a 
large number of concerts this year 
and have everywhere received the 
highest words of praise.
Directors Erb, of W. & J. and Scalzo, of Carnegie Tech, has ar
ranged a program which was bound 
to plea.ce the most critical. These 
two men aic exceptionally well known 
in Pittsburgh musical circles and 
their ability as leaders can never be 
doubted.
A 'large number of Pittsburgh-' 
most prominent women accepted in
vitations to act as patronesses to the 
concert.
A large number of W. & J. Stu
dents attended the concert following 
which an informal dance was held in 
the ball-room of the Hotel Schenley.
OUR BASEBALL PROSPECTS
Continued from Page x 
the balls. Wean is just as good as 
ever and can be relied upon for some 
good hard work when he is in the box. 
Della Roco is also out and working 
harder than ever. Finley is a south
paw with a good variety but as the 
ligaments in his arm are bothering 
him he is working out rather slowly.
In the catching department we have 
only to rely on Captain Lain. This 
is his fourth year bthind the bat and 
hes working harder than ever. We 
heard that it was none other than his 
majesty. The Redheaded Scorekeeper, who requested that the diamond 
be turned around to get protection 
from Tubbys hickory. Warner is a 
promising fellow but owing to an in
jury to his finger he will be out of 
the game for several days. Butts is 
another man who is very fast but in
clined to be a little wild. Shumway 
is a good back stop, with a credible 
high school reputation, and although 
he is rather slow at the beginning of 
the season he is very steady and 
shows fine form. He will be a valua
ble man with a little more confidence.
On first base, Gano, an Industry 
plebe, is showing up well. He is 
good fielder and is fast on his feet, 
covering the bag in fine shape. Ma
son is also competing for the first 
basemans position and making things 
lively at that corner.
There are several good men try
ing for second base. Oefinger, who 
held down that position last year, 
was spiked during practice and went 
home during vacation to rest, so that
now he is around again and will make 
all the other men hustle for the job. 
Miller is very fast and a good fielder. 
His stick-work, however, has been 
weak at times, but as he nicks up he 
will make a valuable infield man. Geo. 
Jacobson, is working hard for this 
position and although he is a little 
slow, he is verv reliable man both at 
bat and in the field.
Dohertv has the short field all 
settled and is even better than last 
year. Inasmuch as he has no compe
titors, he should have no trouble in 
beating himself out for the position.
Krumm, who plaved third base la=t 
year, is out for that position again 
this season and during practice has 
^own considerable improvement in 
his throwing. He is not a heavy hit
ter but is usually present when the 
roll is called in the pinches. Yeager, 
an Industry plebe, may be called in 
from the outfield where he is playing 
now to take a turn at the hot corner 
as he has shown considerable abil
ity when tried out in the infield. Molner, a plebe from Design, is also 
showing up well and should be 
watched carefully.
In the outfield there are three good 
hitters. Kesner plaved last year and 
batted about .300. Watson is a lefthanded batter and hits hard. He 
has shown up very well in practice 
and his fielding is good. Barron is 
another plaver to be watched for he 
is a good hitter and a good fielder. 
Ward Sachs and Mundell are also to 
be considered, in fact as the season 
progresses the fight for the outfield 
will probably become more exciting
In addition to the men mentioned 
above, there are several other fellows 
who have either come out late or are 
just rounding into form and they will 
bear watching for one of these men 
is liable to be the dark horse for any 
position on the team.
Coach Caldwell has worked very 
hard in building up our team and the 
players have tried to make it a win
ner. The student body should show 
its appreciation.come out and give 
them a cheer.
CONTRACTS FOR DORMITORY 
ROOMS.
Contracts for rooms in the Dormi
tories for the year 1916-17 can now 
be filled at the office of the Cashier, 
Mr. Albert Heyl. Present occupants 
will be given until May 15th, 1916, to 
renew contracts for their room. Af
ter that time they shall be disposed 
of to new applicants.
Rooms for the summer months, 
from June 10th to September 10th can 
also be secured from Mr. Heyl at the 
regular rates.
NOTICE.
Inter-School Meet Postponed.
The Inter-School Meet which was 
to take place on April 13, and which 
has been postponed, will be held on 
Thursday, April 27.
By a recent action of the faculty, 
136 hours will be required for gradua
tion from Colgate University.

---------------------------------------------------

3
TRACK TEAM PROSPECTS FOR 
1916.
Many of the Old Men are Out. New 
Men are Showing up Well.
Coach Dull is working hard to give 
us a winning track team and if efforts 
count, which they surely must, we 
will have a good squad to represent 
us this year. Thus far, several men 
have shown unusual ability but the 
outlook is for a very well balanced 
team of men who can be depended 
upon to deliver in their respective 
events, and not a couple of phenoms 
who try them all.
Many of the men who were on last 
years team are out again this spring 
and are showing up better than ever 
in their events. The new men have 
turned out rather slowly, but those 
who are practicing now are doing 
very well and should make a good 
reputation in the class meet tomor
row.
Captain Rieser has been resting at 
his home during the vacation and we 
expect that when he returns he will 
get in shape for the more important 
meets which come later in the sea
son. He was not only a fast man 
last year, but he was also a consist
en winner, which is the only thing 
that counts with the judges and 
scorekeeper this year. He will prob
ably be seen in the same events that 
he ran last year, quarters, half, mile 
and relay.
Hemman is the regular man in the 
dashes, finishing first in the tryouts 
for the ePnn Relay team. He is in 
good shape and should show up well 
in Philadelphia on Saturday. Smith, 
who followed Hemman to the tape, 
is a Science plebe and with the start 
he has made so far this season he 
should develope into a very valua
ble man. Obert finished third in the 
tryouts and will no doubt be on the 
relay team Saturday. Johnson, a new 
man, was fourth. He runs very easily 
and with a little more experience will 
make a good sprinter. Heyl did not 
try out for the relay team but as he 
is a fast man he may be given considereration when the team is chosen.
The dash men have also been do
ing the quarter mile and several of 
them have made the distance in good 
time. Hemman is the best choice at 
this distance with the other sprinters 
running about even. Shumaker has 
also been running the quarter in good 
time and when Capt. Rieser gets in 
shape we should have a large squad 
from which to select our representa
tive.
The milers are all last years men 
and promise to show some fast time 
at that distance. Walker, captain of 
the cross country team for next year, 
has been out regularly and is showing 
his old-time form and speed. Law
son has been limbering up daily and 
is now in good shape. He has a very 
easy stride and can be depended upon 
to put up some keen competition for 
the other distance men. Moore has 
also been doijig his share of the work 
and is making good rime in the dis
tances. Howe works out daily and 
is showing well, both in the mile and 
two mile. Rieser will probably be 
seen among the starters in the mile 
but the two mile races will be hand
led by the other distance men.
In the hurdles, last years men are 
doing most of the work. Johnson, 
a new man is doing the high hurdles 
and Alcorn, also a plebe, is taking the 
low ones. Meredith is showing up 
nicely and as he has good form and 
speed, he wil help us considerably in 
this event.
Woodward, a Design plebe, is do
ing very well in the pole-valut and 
if he continues to improve as he has 
done during practice he will be an 
able competitor for any of the other 
men in this event. Another man, who 
is going to be watched is Pickett. He 
has good form and has had some ex
perience in clearing the bar.
Bremmer, who did such good work 
for us last year in the broad-jump, is 
still on the jump and as he is doing 
so well now he will be watched with 
great interest this season.
In the high-jump, Haub, is attract
ing the most attention. He is a plebe 
in Industry and with a little more 
experience will prove to be a valuaable juniper.
There is a good man out for each 
of the weight events. Holzworth is 
throwing the hammer for some good 
distances and as he is practicing regu
larly he will be a dependable perform
er in this event. Ellerton is putting 
the shot and shows fine form. He 
has made some good heaves and is 
a hard worker. Adams, who did most 
of the heavy work last year, is doing 
the best work with the discus and 
throwing it over the century mark 
consistently.
The first big meet is with Allegheny 
on Saturday, May 6, and if the men 
continue to improve and keep in good 
condition we will give them a hard 
fifight in every event. They have sev
eral men who can make things ex
citing and the meet will undoubtedly 
be interesting.
When our relay team goes to Phila
delphia on Saaurday, they will com
pete with other teams who have good 
reputations in the east and others 
who are better known in the west, so 
that an exciting race is inevitable.
The track schedule for the coming 
season shows several strong competi
tions.
April 27Nnter School Meet.
April 29Penn Relays.
May 6Allegheny at Alegheny.
May 13Pitt Dual Meet at Schenley Oval.
May 30Pitt Inter-Collegiate Meet.
May 27Pitt Inter-Scholastic Meet 
and Bethany Meet at Schenley Oval.
May 30Crafton Meet at Crafton.
INFORMATION CONCERNING 
SUMMER MILITARY CAMPS.
The Military Training Camps As
sociation of the United States is an 
organization formed by the merger 
in January, 1916, of the Students and 
the business mens organizations 
which had camps last summer at 
Plattsburg, Ludington, Fort Sheridan, 
and at other places under the direc
tion of the War Department. Presi
dent Henry Sturgis Drinher of Le
high University, has been elected 
chairman of the governing committee 
of the association; J. L. Derby, of 
New York, treasurer; Grenville Clark 
of New York, secretary, and D. K
Jay, of New York, executive secre
tary. The joint organization will 
continue to have, from the educa
tional standpoint, the advice of the 
University Presidents Advisory Coinmittee, which co-operated in the stu
dents training camps movement.
Plans for the camps next summer 
are being worked out by the asso
ciation, which has established its 
main office at 31 Nassau street, New 
York, with other branches at Phila
delphia, Boston, Chicago and other 
points.
It will be remembered that the first 
Summer Military Training Camps for 
Students were instituted in the sum
mer of 1913, and were held in the 
East at Gettysburg, and in the West 
at the Presidio of Monterey, CaliCal., and in the summer of 1915 by 
students camps at Plattsburgh, N. Y., 
Ludington, Mich., and the Presidio oi 
San Francisco, Cal.
In 1915 camps were established for 
Business Men at various points, the 
one held at Plattsburg following the 
students camps, being the largest.
During the past autumn commit
tees representing the students and 
the business mens organization, and 
the Advisory Committee of Univer
sity Presidents, have been in con
ference as to the advisability of the 
formation of a point organization, 
with the result that the students and 
business mens organizations have 
been merged, forming The Military 
Training Camps Association of the 
United States, to be managed by a 
Governing Committee composed of 
representatives from the Advisory 
Committee of University Presidents, 
from the Business Mens Camps, held 
at Plattsburg, and Fort Sheridan, and 
on the Pacific Coast, and from the 
students camps.
The Training Camps Association 
has established a permanent office 
at 31 Nassau street, New York, and 
a large clerical force is now cardcataloging the names of all who at
tended the business mens camps and 
the students camps heretofore held, 
and the names of all University and 
College alumni students throughout 
the country so far as they can be ob
tained from college catalogs and 
alumni registers, and the names of 
all others who may apply for en
rollment in the camps for next sum
mer, including students in the grad
uating classes of high schools, and 
other schools rated as such, and the 
graduates of the same. When these 
catalogs are completed, full informa
tion will be sent out to all persons 
interested as to the camps to be held 
next summer with enrollment blanks 
to be signed by those desiring to at
tend. The present membership of 
the Association composed of all men 
who have attended these camps foi 
the last three summers, numbers 
about 4100 men, and the indications 
are that the enrollment for the com
ing summer will run up into many 
thousands.
The camps are essentially demo
cratic and are open to all applicants 
of good moral character, physically 
qualified.
Inquiries should be addressed to 
The Military Training Camps Asso
ciation, 31 Nassau street, New York
THE MAN WHO FLUNKS OUT.
The Man Who Flunks Out leaves 
college with mixed feelings. On the 
whole he is rather sorry. He misses 
the cheery companionship and the 
pleasant associations he has formed. 
His regrets do not, however, go much 
deeper than that. Perhaps he is just 
a wee bit proud of himself. Somehow 
there is something attractive in the 
idea of having scorned the daily grind 
which others considered so important. 
After the first bitter feeling of dis
comfiture the Man Who Flunks Out 
rather enjoys his distinction. He 
knows that failure was due to lack of 
interest, not to say density of brain. 
He receives the sympathy of his 
friends with jocularity, and leaves for 
home with confidence as to his future.
The high spirits of the Man Who 
Flunks Out are a trifle dampened by 
the reception which he receives from 
his parents. Not that they reproach 
him. He would prefer to have them 
do so. He is not prepared for the 
quiet disappointment which they ex
press on their sons failure to make 
good. They havent lost faith in him, 
however, and look for him to gain 
success in the business world.
Somewhat chastened the Man Who 
Flunks Out sets out to get a position. 
He does not anticipate much trouble 
on this score. His family are well 
known in town. Besides, his person
ality is pleasing, and his appearance 
is one to create a favorable impres
sion. He ought to land a job in quick 
order. Thus thinks the Man Who 
Flunks Out, but he is mistaken. The 
merchant, to whom he first applies, 
dismisses him curtly with a Cant do 
it. Weve heard about you. The 
next man listens to his plea for a 
while, but after close questioning has 
ascertained the facts of his college 
career, sends him away. So it goes. 
The Man Who Flunks Out is not 
wanted. Of course, after a while the 
Man Who Flunks Out does find em
ployment. It does not, however, even 
approach what he wants and for 
which he thinks he is fitted. He be' 
gins to realize just what flunking out 
means. Now for the first time he 
feels bitter remorse. He sees clearly 
that failure in any purpose acts as a 
spot on his slate. As yet, however, 
he doesnt realize just how indelible 
that spot is.
The Man Who Flunks Out does not 
waste his time in idle regrets. He 
pitches in and works hard. He attains 
a certain measure of success. Yet he 
never gets quite as high as he aims. 
That infernal collegiate fiasco of his 
always keeps him just one rung too 
low. Complete self-realization is 
never attained.
In other fields than business the 
Man Who Flunks Out feels his handi
cap. He is barred from the intellec
tual and social benefits of the Univer
sity Club. His capabilities of intelli
gent conversation on the deeper prob
lems of life are lessened. In fact, the 
Man Who Flunks Out is subject to 
all the limitations to which a man 
who never goes to college at all is 
tied. The worst of it is that he knows 
what he has missed.The Tripod.

---------------------------------------------------

4Gtye tartan
M M C SSCH00LNEW3
SENIORTEA DANSANT. ing the May Queen, Miss Grace Sea--------- right president of the class, drawn in
On Wednesday, April 12th, the Sen- a phaeton by the Sophomores. The
iors gave a Dansant in the Re-  . , A11... ^ ... other classes will follow in order. Allcreation hall. 1 lckets, which were
twenty-five cents entitled the owner *he Sr^s then assemble in the
to chocolate or tea and sandwiches, rotunda of the school, when the Drabesides the privilege of dancing all matic Club will present a play on
afternoon. A very large crowd wras front steps. It is a short sketch
present which pleased the hostesses .  . _  r .._ from Pippa Passes. 1 he followingvery much. Separate tables were pro
vided where home made candy, cakes, *s cas*e chosen.
and sandwiches could be purchased. PiPPa..............................Miss Helen Senn
The Senior Class voted to help fi- BishoP ..................Miss Marian PlcheI
nance the education of a French or- Bluphlocks ..Miss Bernice Thompson
phan and the proceeds from the dan- 2- Policemen-Miss Helen Clark,
sant are to be used for that purpose, Miss Margaret Brooks,
almost fifty dollars being realized. 3 MiU girls-Miss Charlotte Wat.
The whole class was divided into sorj Miss Ruth Pontius.
committees which had for their chair- ...........................Miss Mary Ege
men members of the social commit- Luigis Mother ...........................
tee. The Senior Social Committee ....................Miss Marjory Carmichael
certainly deserves a vote of thanks for Jules ..................Miss Constance Stent
the creditable manner in which the After the play, the May Queen will 
affair was conducted. This commit- decide which cases has succeeded in
tee has Worked together for two writing and then singing the last May
years and has always achieved the Day Song. i\o class is to know what
greatest possible in all the social t^Le other is preparing until that time,
affairs which it has managed. Miss when a fitting reward will be given
Lila Gilmore is chairman this year to successful group. The celebraand manages her committee well. tion wil1 close with sPorts and gen"
The hall was very prettily decorat- era^ merry making, after which re
ed with smilax and festoons of crepe freshments may be served,
paper from the ceiling lights. The friends of the school are invited
color scheme used was the class and ^ *he weather on the first of May
colors of yellow and green. The PrO'es inclement, the affair will be
music was excellent, thus making postponed till the next <3ay, until
dancing, a pleasure, and; judging from sun does shine.
the lateness of the hour when the --------------------------
last person departed, all must have THE STRAND THEATER,
had an enjoyable afternoon. ______
Manager Simon of the Strand has 
secured another supply of student 
tickets, and they may be had on ap
plication at the Theatre. One might 
call the next six days at Oaklands 
Friendly Theatre Booklovers week, 
from the number of Photodramas 
based on well known literary works.
Today (Wednesday) Secret Love 
in which Helen Ware plays the lead, 
is based on That Lass of Lowries 
by Frances Hodgson Burnett. The 
Final Curtain written especially for 
Alma Hanlon and Arthur Hoops who 
play the star parts, but Puddin head 
Wilson in which Theodore Roberts 
plays the lead, is taken from Mark 
Twains great story in which finger 
prints lead to the clearing up of a 
great mystery. Hall Caine wrote 
The Bondsmen in which William 
Farnum apepars Saturday. Tennesses Pardner founded on the poem 
by Bret Harte, is shown Monday with 
Fanny Ward. The Tuesday atraction 
The Wall Between in which Francis 
X. Bushman and Beverly Bayne are 
starred, is based on the novel of the 
same name by Ralph D. Paine.
SENIOR BALL PLANS.
Plans are just about completed for 
the annual Senior Ball to be held 
in the foyer of the Carnegie Music 
hall. The date chosen has been Fri
day, the fifth of May. This is a year
ly event looked forward to with great 
anticipation and pleasure by the eligibles. Any alumnae wishing to go 
may secure their tickets from Miss 
Helen Anderson.
The Senior Class Social Commit
tee is in charge of the affair and 
promises something which will be 
just a little better and different from 
anything that has ever occured before.
MAY DAY FESTIVAL.
A mammoth May Day celebration 
is being planned by the school, which 
is to include all four classes. The 
girls are to form in the park and to 
approach the school from that direc
tion. Each class will be costumed 
in their own colors and will have a 
distinctive play thing. The Seniors 
have chosen colored balls, the Juniors, 
hoops, the Sophomore, jumping rope 
and the Plebes, horns and drums.
The Seniors will come first, havCarnegie Institute of 
Technology: Pittsburgh
The Carnegie Institute of Technology consists of four separate 
schools, each with its own faculty, buildings, and students.
School of Applied Science. Offers courses in chemical, civil, 
commercial, electrical, mechanical, metallurgical, mining and 
sanitary engineering, leading to the degree of Bachelor of Sci
ence. Also courses in science for teaching or research.
School of Applied Design. Offers courses in architecture, 
decoration, illustration, painting, sculpture, music, and dramatic 
arts, open to both men and women, leading to the degree of 
Bachelor of Arts.
Margaret Morrison Carnegie School. For women. Offers 
courses in household economics, secretarial work, costume 
economics, general science, social work, home arts and crafts, 
leading to the degree of Bachelor of Science.
School of Applied Industries. Offers industrial courses in 
machine construction, building construction, general equipment 
and installation, and printing. Short courses are offered in the 
various trades. Also a course for the training of industrial 
teachers, leading to the degree of B. S. in Industrial Education.
Night Courses. The four schools offer courses in practically 
all of the above subjects to provide educational opportunities for 
those who are at work during the day.
For Further Information Address 
Registrar, Carnegie Institute of Technology
ffredmck's_____
U THE HOUSE OF SERVICE
ALL VICTOR RECORDS, EVERY DAY
And the 
Victrola to 
Play them on
W. F. FREDERICK PIANO CO.
635-37 Smithfield Street, PITTSBURGH
Demonstrations 
at any time

---------------------------------------------------

0% (Harlan5
THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES 
BOARD.
Efficient Organization Renders Great 
Service to School.
In the fall of 1908 there was brought 
to the attention of the faculty a new 
problem. It was seen that an organizaion was needed to control some of 
the more vigorous of the students 
clubs and to stimulate the growth of 
the weaker. So a student activities 
committee was appointed from the 
faculty, consisting of one member and 
an alternate from each school. The 
members were Dr. Willett of Science, 
Prof. Calderwood of Industries, Mr. 
Hewlitt of Design, and Miss Lyon of 
Margaret Morrison, with the alter
nates, Dr. Sill, Mr. Pfouts, Mr. Lee, 
and Miss Cauble. Mr. Field, the ad
ministration member, was advisor and 
general manager. To him must be 
given the credit for the success of the 
organization. A constitution, which 
has not been essentially changed 
since, was adopted, and the commit
tee started work.
At their own suggestion the stu
dents made voluntary contributions 
for the support of the activities. This 
is now collected in the form of the 
student activities fee, one dollar of 
which goes to the student activities 
fund and four dollars to athletics. 
This money is given out to the vari
ous organizations, which to receive 
it must be duly recognized and 
thought worthy of help. The organi
zations which were recognized by the 
original committee as meriting assist
ance were the Musical Clubs, Band, 
Thistle and White Friars. This last 
was a dramatic society which went 
out of existence with the opening of 
the dramatic department in Design. 
The committee innovated the athletic 
contests, the picuresque pageant, with 
the ox-roast and bonfire which mark 
the end of hostilities between the 
Plebes and the Sophomores. It was 
also through the consideration of this 
committee that the dormitory subject 
was opened, and private houses were 
rented on Woodlawn avenue as a step 
toward the present dormitory build
ings.
At the beginning of the next year 
the manager or a delegate from each 
of the different clubs met with the 
committee. The faculty was cut down 
to one member from each of the dif
ferent schools. This admitted the 
students on equal terms with the 
facultv members. Many calls came 
for help although some of the clubs 
were occasionally able to turn in a 
surplus to the board. So in time, 
by judicial management of the funds, 
a good surplus was left in the treas
ury. This made possible the Carnegie 
Union.
At this time the need was felt for 
a man able to give all of his attention 
to the work of the committee, and 
Mr. Foster was secured as graduate 
manager. With Mr. Foster to over
see matters, the faculty felt that the 
committee was beyond the experi
mental stage and decided to let it 
follow its own devices. So the origi
nal committee was relieved by a new 
board, composed of two students from 
each of the mens schools, one from
each cf the night schools, and one 
alumnus from each school. This com
mittee recognized the Band, Musical 
Clubs, Choral Club, Wireless Club, 
Thistle, Student Advertising Bureau, 
and the Union. Matters concerning 
the clubs only are settled by the offi
cers of the organizations, but matters 
of importance to the student body 
must be referred to the board.
With the coming of Mr. Gearhart 
in the latter part of last November an 
efficient checking system of book
keeping was put into practice, elimi
nating all possibility of mistakes and 
making the student certain that all 
of his money is spent for legitimate 
support of the activities. All pavmens for the organizations are made 
by the treasurer of the board. The 
organizations must have the official 
order of the board before being able 
to make purchases. So unnecessary 
expenditures are detected and pre
vented by the graduate manager. This 
eliminates great waste. By Mr. Gear
harts system of  checking the differ
ent clubs know to a cent just how 
much they are indebted to the fund. 
Any club costing the students more 
than its value to them can be speedily 
dropped from the list of recognized 
activities.
Before the end of the school year 
a further step in the organization of 
the activities will be complete, when 
each club will have submitted its con
stitution to the board. This will show 
just how each organization is con
trolled and in what ways it is respon
sible to the board, and so eliminate 
possible confusion in government.
P. LUDEBULHL & iON
COACH CALDWELL OF BASE 
BALL HAS FINE 
RECORD.
Former Penn Pitcher and League 
Player.
Mr. Ralph G. Caldwell who was 
chosen a few weeks ago to coach the 
varsity this spring has an excellent 
record in base ball. He first won 
laurels in Central High School of 
Philadelphia, his home city, when he 
played on their nine.
During the years of 1903 and 1904, 
he pitched for University of Penn
sylvania and was the star of the Red 
and Blue teams of those years. In 
1903 Penn defeated Georgetowns 
crack team with Caldwell in the box; 
Georgetown having defeated Yale, 
Princeton and Harvard two times 
apiece.
He first started his professional 
career at St. Albans, Vt., with a band 
of ex-college men among whom were 
Reulbach, Hart, Andy Coakley, and 
Doc Scanlon. He finished the sea
son with Atlantic City by defeating 
the Philadelphia Nationals. Where
upon he was immediately signed up. 
In 1905 he was sent to Toronto in 
the Eastern League. Since then he 
has twirled for various other pro 
teams.
In 1911 he coached the Lehigh 
University team, while last year he 
assisted with the coaching of Wilkinsburg High Schools nine, being an 
instructor in that institution. His 
long experience in base ball and
Shoes and Hosiery
11 * 1L
$3.50 to $10.00 the Pair
Penn and Frankstown 
FOOTPRINTS LEAD TO DETECTION
The standing of a man is as often as not told 
by his footwearif he is careless of that, he's apt 
to be negligent of more important things. If you 
will buy your shoes here, you may be certain of 
looking all right, feeling all right arid impressing 
others with the fact that you are all right. 
Our Shoes are built by some of the most repre
sentative Shoe Manufacturers in the world.
Special Mens Dept.
TWIXT CUP AND LIP
that awful slip is rendered harmless by our 
most efficacious system of dry-cleaning. We 
can render unto you like new the soiled, 
disfigured, discolored and stained garments 
of yesterday.
The cost is small for the service.
J. E. T. SHUMAN
391 1 Forbes Street 
Schenley 875
A NATIONAL INSTITUTION
B*owning, King Sc Co.
CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS, AND HATS FOR MEN, BOYS AND CHILDREN 
439-441 WOOD STREET
OAKLANDS FRIENDLY THEATRE
sT R
A
ND
WEDNESDAYSATURDAYHELEN WAREWILLIAM FARNUM
ININ"SECRET LOVETHE BONDSMAN
THURSDAYPinMONDAYALMA HANLONFANNY WARD
ININTHE FINAL CURTAINaysTENNESSES PARDNER
FRIDAYI!!TUESDAYTHEODORE ROBERTSFRANCIS X BUSHMAN
PUDDIN HEAD WILSON"
IN
"THE WALL BETWEEN
STR
A
ND
FORBES AND ATWOOD
WEBER EXPRESS '"cpHh"" and STORAGE CO.
Moving, Packing and Storing of F urniture 
and Pianos. Geneial Hauling 
Baggage to and from Depots
4616-18-20 HENRY ST., PITTSBURGH
coaching speaks for itself as to his 
ability.
Yale has decided to form an aerial 
corps in connection with its new mili
tary battalion, and an airship is being 
built by the Connecticut Aircraft Co.,, 
in Portsmouth, N. H. It will be ship
ped to Hartford when completed and 
set up in the Hartford armory.
University of Kansas is now wit
nessing a big battle between students 
and professors. The professors, who 
make a habit of keeping the class five 
minutes overtime, are featured under 
the Dishonor Roll' in their daily pub
lication.
C
AMERAPHONT7 THEATRE JLJ
NOW OPEN
See program in other part of paper
Modern Dances
CLASSES AND PRIVATE
R. E. JACQUES
(All CASTLE'S Work) 
Forbes and Craig Sts., Pittsburgh

---------------------------------------------------

6Sty? tartan
DESIGN NEWS.
Robert Reed, the well known pain
ter of New York has recently visited 
the Design School. Mr. Reed is now 
painting in this city and it is hoped 
that he will address the Design stu
dents before his departure. An ex
hibition of his impressions is now 
being held at the Pittsburgh Athletic 
Club.
An invitation has been extended to 
the Alumni of all the schools to at
tend the production of A Winters 
Tale, Shakespeare, presented by the 
students of Dramatic Arts of this 
school; it will be produced upon Sat
urday evening, April the 29. This is 
the first time this year that the alumni 
has been officially invited.
The Dramatic students will present 
Shakespeare's Two Gentlemen of 
Verona upon Friday evening, April 
the 28. Students of the upper classes 
of the Pittsburgh High Schools are 
invited.
Mr. Pool, of London, one of the 
greatest Shakesperian scholars of the 
present age will arrive in Pittsburgh 
on May the 10th to prepare a Shakes
pearian production to be given in Oc
tober. Mr. Pool will be at the De
sign School three weeks in the spring 
and three weeks in the fall. It was 
he who staged wdiat was acknowl
edged, the best Shakespearian play 
ever produced in London and Strat
ford von Avon.
SUNDAY RECITAL TO BE GIVEN 
IN THE DESIGN THEATER.
The students of the Department of 
Music offer the following program 
in a recital to be given in the the
ater of the School of Applied De
sign on ihe evening of April 13th, at 
eight oclock:
Organ Solo
a. Prehide and Fuge in G. Major
...................John Sebastian Bach
b. Melody in D Major..................
................. Alexander Guilmant
Mr. Robert Barner.
Allegro Ma Non Troppo, and 
Larghetto from Terzetto, for 
violins and viola.. Antonio Dvorak 
Messrs. Gluck, Cruso and Billingham. 
Violin Solo
First Movement from Concerto
No. 7 .......................Ch. De Beriot
Mr. Llgar H. Shakely.
Cello Quartet
Serenade...............F. P. Volkmann
Mess? s. Curry, Replogle, Wil
kins and Seifert.
Piano Solo
Scherzo in E Major.......................
............................. Frederic Chopin
Miss Isabel M. Palmer.
Violin Solo
Serenade Melancolique ................
.........................P. Tschaikowsky
Mr. Jacob Cruso.
Piano Solo
a. Ballade, G. M.. Frederick Chopin
b. Romanza, D flat Major ..........
.................................Jean Sibelius
c. Rigaudon ................Joachim Raff
Adele Hennig 
Accompanists: Miss Roberts and
M iss Eshelman.
REMARKABLE COLLECTION 
OF POSTERS.
Marking Celebration of the 250th An
niversary of Newark, N. J,, to be 
Shown Here Soon.
This exhibit of 64 Posters is a se
lection of the best examples from the 
232 submitted in the Newark compe
tition The posters wore ill design
ed upon one theme of Newarks 250rh 
Anniversary Celebration which will 
occupy the year 1916 from May to 
October.
Critics declare the exhibit the best 
ever seen in this country and it has 
met with great success in New York, 
Boston, Providence and other cities.
The first prize of $1,000.00 was 
awarded to Adolph Triedler, New 
York.
The second, of $500.00, to Miss 
Helen Dryden, New York, and the 
third, of $300.00, to A. E. Foringer 
of New Jersey. A traveling exhibit 
of these posters will be here on May 
the 30th.
Mr. Steohens is acting as Pageant 
Master for Newarks Two-hundred 
and Fiftieth (250) Anniversary Cele
bration.
Upon Wednesday, April 26th, A 
Winters Tale will be given in the De
sign Theater for the Pittsburgh Art 
Society members.
Students of the Design School can 
secure tickets at the Deans office for 
the plays to be given upon the even
ings of the 27th and 29th. No person 
will be admitteJ without tickets.
Professor Zeller, assistant profes
sor of sculptor, is still ill. It was 
hoped that ho could return for the 
work of last week but his health 
would not permit.
B0SSANGE APPOINTED DEAN
Continued from Page 1
The new Dean is an exponent of 
student government, provided it truly 
governs; and at the same time affords 
the students all possible liberty in 
such a manner that they may receive 
the benefits so generously afforded by 
our fine building and organization.
Mr. Bossange believes that it is 
more important for a student to spend 
at least 4 years in this school, as no 
one can build a firm foundation in art, 
in less than that time. He hopes 
that in the near future tuition schol
arships and new fellowships can be 
obtained that will make it possible 
for many of our students to remain 
with us; this would be a great ad
vantage not only for them, but also
for the other students who benefit 
greatly from the examples of those 
who are more advanced than them
selves.
DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC
Continued from Page 1 
airy tred. The Nocturne was in
terpreted with goo J taste and feel
ing, while the body of tone elicited 
from the small groups of instruments, 
in the Wedding March was sur
prising. This number was given with 
a strength and spirit quite new to this 
groups of musicians.
Throughout, the attack was sure, 
the tone pure, sonorous and carefully 
shaded. Every member evinced pain
staking, thoughtful work; and the 
result was an artistic performance 
which places them very close to what 
is termed professional.
The men from the Dramatic De
partment were pretty much in evi
dence in the Folk Dancing, which 
met with a most cordial reception.
The members of the String Sextet 
were:
Horace I. Brown, Jacob Cruso, Ro
land Bellingham, Edgar Shakely, Jo
seph Replogle and Julius Bielo, to 
whom; as a member of the Tuesday 
Musical Club; thanks are offered by 
a student.
THEATRES.
Week of April 24. 
Davis.
Nine all-star acts, each a distinc
tive headliner. Special feature will 
be made of The Unexpected, a one 
act comedy drama.
Alvin.
An extravagant musical comedy 
spectical is presented in Town 
Topics, it operates 20 scenes, em
ploying over 200 persons. Three 
matinees during the week on Wed
nesday, Friday and Saturday.
Grand.
The Shakespeare Tercentenary cele
bration is the most noteworthy dra
matic performance staged since the 
farewell engagement of the SouthernMarlowe company. The Taming of 
the Shrew, will present the Harry 
Davis Stock company in an elaborate 
presentation of that play.
Strand.
MondayPauline Frederick ap
pears in The Spider, she plays the 
cruel, revenged woman perfectly.
FridayHer Great Price. A 
clever comedy drama full of amuse
ment.
WednesdayThe Secret Love, 
with Helen Ware, a snappy cartoon 
comedy.
ThursdayA clever play picturing 
true stage life is seen in The Final 
Curtain.
FridayA play based on Mark 
Twains novel Puddin Head Wil
son, it is a detective drama, which 
deals with the Southern Slave-hold
ing days.
SaturdayWilliam Farnum in The 
Bondman, a masteriece enacted by a 
leader among photo stars.
Oakland 
Savings & Trust Co.
The Oakland Bank"
Capital $200,000.00 
Surplus $200,000.00 
Deposits over $2,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
Bell Phone P. & A. Phone
4180 Court 17'1 Pitt
If you want to RENT the best 
FULL DRESS SUITSup to
date in stylecall the
PITTSBURGH
DRESS SUIT CO.
440 Wood Street
Second Floor
FOR RENT: Full Dress, Tux
edos, Princed Alberts, Cutaways, 
Silk Hats. All new stock.
BRACE BROS.
LAUNDRY
TRENTON AVENUE 
WILKINSBURG
Bell Phone. Wilkins 23
Expert Cleaning 
and Pressing
102 W. Dorm
W. O. BRECKON
STUDIOS
Forbes and Atwood Streets 
Phone* 1603161 Schenley 
Special Prices to Tech Students
fU.C. B RAGDON tS COMMERCIAL PHOTOGRAPHER, V 
WOODCUTTING ETCHING,HALF-TONE
both phones ENGRAV P ~T. oc-J*" 7IIPLNN AVE. PITTSBURGH,PA
THE CHURCH OF THE 
ASCENSION
ELLSWORTH AVENUE 
AND NEVILLE STREET 
DR. WYATT BROWN. Rector
Sunday Services 1 1:00 A.M.,7:45 P. M. 
Splendid Music, Short Sermons

---------------------------------------------------

(T1|P iartan7
In an editorial entitled, Collegians 
on War, the New York Times of 
January 12 gives voice to the com
mon criticism of colleges that they 
do not really educate. The text is 
a paper submitted to the students of 
Bowdoin and New York University 
concerning prominent men and local
ities in the present war, the replies 
to which seem to argue an unfortunate 
scarcity of ideas about current events. 
Whether it is fair to judge an insti
tution, as a whole, from a few in
stances of misinformation, and wheth
er it is fair to judge all colleges from 
two, might bear discusin. That, 
however, is not the real qquestion. 
The ignorance of the generality of 
young men at college is charmingly 
incredible, says the editor, assum
ing it as axiomatic that unfamiliar
ity with current events is synony
mous with ignorance. But, while we 
admit that such unfamiliarity is de
plorable, we cannot consent to con
demn our educational system because 
of it. If the object of education were 
acquaintance with conditions of the 
moment; if, as the New Republic sug
gests, we ought to subordinate the 
past to the present, it would be no 
longer a question of the college adeffuately fulfilling its mission: the col
lege would have no proper place at 
all. It is just because the college 
offers opportunity for contact with 
things not of our daily life, the things 
that broaden and enrich life past the 
power of inventors of general infor
mation tests to comprehendfor just 
tMs reason is the college invaluable. 
The college is pre-eminently the me
dium through which is kept fresh the 
contact between our lives and the 
greatest art and science and thought 
that mankind has produced. Our crit
ics forget that knowledge of current 
events is to be had for the asking at 
anv moment, and that no man is un
able to judge the world of his man
hood because he did not give his 
vivile attention to the world of his 
vnnth, and that, on the other hand, 
wofe we to exchange for this much"Minted readiness on latter-day topour chance to grasp branches of 
knowledge which par excellence are 
of permanent importance to the 
v-orM, we would lose that chance past 
-fcall. Granted that we ought to 
both, it is still true that, to the 
college man, and to the world through 
him. it is vastly more important that 
ho should attain comprehension of the 
t^s^ter minds of the past than enr^cMopedic acquaintance with the 
^hemcral interests of the day.Yale 
News.
INTERCOLLEGIATE NOTES.
The annual winter carnival at Dart
mouth is scheduled to be held 011 
Friday and Saturday afternoons, Feb
ruary 11 and 12. The events include 
a hockey game, ski and snowshoe 
cross-country races, 100 and 200-yard 
rVi and snow-shoe dashes, exhibition 
ski-jumping, and a snowshoe ob
stacle race. The feature of this years 
program will be a ski-jumping race. 
Prizes consisting of medals and cups 
v,;11 be awarded the winners of the 
various events.
The 1916 Army and Navy football 
game has been scheduled to be played 
in Philadelphia. Provided the people 
of Philadelphia follow out their pro
posed plan of building a stadium cap
able of seating 50,000 persons, an ef
fort will be made to transfer this an
nual contest to the stadium perma
nently.
Thirteen fraternities have formed 
an intramural relay league at the Uni
versity of Syracuse.
The students of Williams College 
have become so imbued with the spirit 
of militarism, which now prevails in 
the country, that they have petitioned 
the trustees for the privilege of form
ing a battalion to be drilled under the 
supervision of the regular army of
ficers.
Wellesley College had the longest 
Christmas vacation of any Eastern 
college, the vacation lasting 20 days.
Yale, Harvard, Princeton, and 
Pennsylvania lead all the colleges in 
the number of men chosen for Wal
ter Camps All-American football 
teams, having had eighty, sixty-nine, 
fifty-one and thirty-four men chosen 
respectively.
Confronted with the need for re
stricting further registration unless 
more facilities are provided, New York 
University will try to raise $275,000 for 
a new physics-engineering building. In 
a circular letter, to be distributed, the 
present congestion and rapid gain in 
registration are suggested as reasons 
for the new building. It is pointed out 
that the University now stands fourth 
'in the country according to registra
tion returns of the last month.
A new course is to be added to the 
curriculum of Columbia University next 
semester, the subject of which is Prac
tice Penal Problems, and is to take 
up the various prison questions and 
, study them in a practical way. The 
nearby penal institutions, the most famf^ous of which is Sing Sing, provide amJ pie opportunity for research work.
Colgate meets Ohio Wesleyan and 
Rochester in a tringular debate this 
evening. The question is Resolved: 
That there should be a prompt and 
substantial increase in the army and 
navy of the United States.
The Harvard Library, in collecting 
available data on the European War, 
has so far gathered together over a 
thousand books and documents, and 
also a number of foreign newspapers.
At Harvard a course in military 
science will be officially added to the 
University curriculum, consisting of 
twenty-four lectures and six tactical 
talks. Major-General Leonard Wood 
will open the course with a lecture 
on the general military policy of the 
United States, and the methods that 
it employs to raise and maintain 
armies. Four lectures will deal with 
the infantry, three with the cavalry. 
Other lectures will be given on field 
and coast artillery, military engin
eering, camp sanitation and hygiene, 
the signal corps, including aviation, 
transportation, supply and ordnance.
Yale has organized a battery in 
which nearly five hundred undergrad
uates have already enlisted. It will be 
equipped with three-inch field piece 
similar in construction to the fam
ous French 75-millimeter gun, which
The Great American Smoke 
Bull Durham
Fall in line with the hundreds of thousands of redblooded smokers of the good old U. S. A. Smoke the 
cigarette tobacco thats been an American institution for 
three generationsBull Durham. The rich, relishy, starspangled taste of Bull puts the national spirit of get-upand-hustle into your hand-rolled cigarette. Bull  is the 
freshest, snappiest, liveliest of smokes.
4*GENUINE
2ll j?tar
SMOKING TOBACCO
Roll your own with Bull Durham and you 11 find a far greater satisfaction in smoking your cigarette than 
you ever did before. The rich, mild tobacco leaf Bull is made of has that delightful mellow
sweetness which suits your taste 
to a T. And its aromatic 
fragrance is supremely unique.
Men who never smoked ciga
rettes before are now rolling 
their own with Bull Durham.
Ask for FREE package of 
papers with each 5c sack
CD U F An Illustrated Booklet,^ VI-*.!-* showing correct way to 
Roll Your Own Cigarettes, and a 
package of cigarette papers, will both be mailed, free, to any address 
in the United ^States on request.Address Bull Durham, Durham.
N. C., Room 1400.
THE AMERICAN TOBACCO CO.
For EATS Come to US
We want to furnish the Baked Goods 
for your Frat. May we?
THE HALLER BAKERY
In the Center of the IROQUOIS BLOCK, Oakland
A regular 35c Hair Cut for 25c
Tech Barber Shop
f-RED FARGEL, I roprietor 
CRAIG AND FORBES STREETS
For All 
Occasions
RANDOLPH & McCLEMENTS
FLORAL EXPERTS
5936 Penn Ave., near Highland Ave.
Enterprise Cleaning Company
1 LtANtHS AND DYER
Perfecl Work in Ladies , C hildren s and 
Household Work 
Oriental Rugs and Drapeiies a Specialty 
401 EAST END TRUST BL1 G.. PITTSBURGH 
Phones : Office 449 Hiland : Works 4912 Hilan
has proved its efficiency in the pres
ent war. The first gun has arrived. 
Its maximum range is four miles, 
complete with two limbers and a cais
son, $2,500. The Yale battalion con
sists of four companies of 135 men 
each. The government will supply 
each of these four companies with 
four of the three-incli field pieces, 
making a battery of sixteen guns in
all. During the last three weeks the 
Yale battery has been drilling four 
nights a week. After college closes 
in June, a ten days encampment will 
be made at Tobyhanna, Penna., along 
with a company of regulars. Target 
practice will be held with the regular 
service ammunition, along with field 
artillery maneuvers.

---------------------------------------------------

Bfjr Otaran
Good Clothes 
Cheaper
Clothiers, Tailors, Hatters 
Furnishers
504-506 Federal St., N.S.
Mellon National Bank
510-514 Smithfield Street 
409-413 Fifth Avenue
Capital, Surplus and Profits 
$9,000,000
anr%tL UorLCCLstevSCCH0 LHNNEC2 for 25cCluett, Peabody & Co., Inc., Makers
(. fl. ^ianft
3702 FORBES STREET 
PITTSBURGH. PA. 
STATIONER & NEWSDEALER
PHONE 9076 SCHENLEY
Schenck China Co.
CHINA. GLASS, SILVERWARE 
FOR HOTELS. RESTAURANTS AND 
INSTITUTIONS 
Special Oecorations our Speciality 
432 PENN AVENUE
INTERCOLLEGIATE NOTES.
Owing to the large amount of crib
bing in the recent mid-year examina
tions at Lafayette the adoption of the 
Honor System is being seriously con
sidered by the college authorities. The 
Fafayette speaks of the present method 
of conducting examinations as follows, 
It has become a game between the 
students and the professor, and in some 
cases the professor is so badly beaten 
that the game becomes ludicrous.
The bronze trophy, won by Cornell, 
for the Intercollegiate track champion
ship of 1915, which has recently been 
finished by Ricardo Bertellie, the art
ist, will be brought to Ithaca on March
6, after the Intercollegiate indoor meet, 
in Madison Square Garden, on 
March 4.
The Columbia University debating 
team will leave New York on April 8 
on the longest trip ever taken by a 
Columbia team. Upon their return two 
weeks later they will have covered 8000 
miles. They will debate with five dif
ferent universities, William Jewell Col
lege, University of Southern California, 
Leland Stanford, University of Utah, 
and Colorado College.
Jack Ashmead, star guard on the Cor
nell basketball team, risked his life in 
the recent fire that destroyed the Cor
nell chemical building, to save a $1,000 
tube of radium. He made his way into 
the laboratory of the building when the 
fire was at its height to save the pre
cious element, the location of which 
he fortunately knew.
According to Morton C. Bogue, the 
chairman of the Board of Stewards of 
the Intercollegiate Rowing Association, 
the regatta which has been held on 
the Hudson at Poughkeepsie for about 
twenty years, will this year be held on 
Lake Cayuga at Ithaca. The date 
of the race will be June 24. Now thal 
the New York Central has refused 
to run an observation train on 
June 30 or July 1, the only possible 
dates on the Hudson because of tidal 
conditions, all hope of a compromise 
with the railroad officials has been de
stroyed. The nearness of Fourth of 
July and the incident heavy traffic to
gether with the freight tie-up, which 
is not expected to be cleared up till the 
end of summer, have been given as 
reasons for the railroad not running 
the observation train. The only other 
date that is available is June 17, but 
this date interferes with the examina
tions at Pennsylvania and is consid
ered impossible.
Spring apparel b. &. b.
Things are now at their best. Each department is in readiness 
to serve the particular young man and woman. The store fairly 
glistens with the new. 
Sport Suitsan especially charming collection at $25.00the 
new high boots in the wanted shadesin fact every possible re
quirement for the young miss. 
For the menThe clothing department is showing Society 
BrandBrokaw Bros, and Stein Block Suits in all the advertised 
models. The choice is good at $25.00
vTZ, BOGGS & BUHL VTZ.
A rule has recently been made at 
the University of Texas which allows 
the members of college publications to 
be suitably rewarded. Editors are to 
receive gold medals, issue editors silver 
medals, and reporters bronze ones. 
These rewards will correspond to var
sity athletic insignia.
Out of the nine justices of the Su
preme Court of the United States, eight 
are college men, and seven of these 
have graduated from denominational 
schools. Of the 18 presidents who were 
college men, 16 have come from deREDUCED PRICES Telephone j ^Office* \ Bryant & s, C)air
Mens Sack Suits cleaned, Old Price $2.00 to 
Boys Sack Suits cleaned, Old Price $1.25 to Womens Two-Piece Cloth
Suits Cleaned, Old Price $2.50 to
OSWALD WERNER &
6400
2.50; New Price $1.00 
L. 50; New Price $ .75
5.00; New Price $1.25
SONS COMPANY
Load Up
that blessed pipe with good old Tux and 
knock the daylights out of care and woe and 
trouble and all the rest of that tribe.
The Perfect Tobacco for Pipe and Cigarette
Tux is made of the finest selected Burley 
full of gimp and go and get-there liveliness.
But its a smooth, mellow, fragrant smoke 
the Tuxedo Process, which is often imitated 
but never equalled, takes away all the bite and 
parch and leaves it mild, sweet and cool.
Try one tin of Tux  
youll find it will comfort, 
refresh and satisfy you as no 
other tobacco can.
YOU CAN BUY TUXEDO EVERYWHERE
Convenient, glassine wrapped, C _ 
moisture-proof pouch . . .
Famous green tin with gold 1 A 
lettering, curved to fit pocket J. v/C
In Tin Humidors, 40c and 80c 
In Glass Humidors, 50c and 90c
THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY
nom.inational schools.
Delaware College has all preparations 
made to make extensive improvements
to the old dormitory building at a cost 
of $75,000. Also work will be begun 
in the early spring on the $225,000 
Science Hall.
