WM. H. DOSEY
Volume III 
Number laDECEMBER 9, 1908
Two Dollars the Year 
Ten Cents the Copy

---------------------------------------------------

01fHote lScthetn y
PITTSBURG, PA.
ESTIMATES FURNISHED
FOR
WM.HH DOSSEYH
AND
D.SWEH
James Riley, Prop.
EVERY 
TECHNICAL MAN
needs one of the following 
Engineering Journals:
ELECTRICAL WORLD
The foremost authority of the world on all 
branches of electrical work.
Weekly Edition, Sj.oo. Monthly Edition, $i.00
THE ENGINEERING RECORD
The most valuable paper published for 
the civil and mechanical engineer.
Published Weekly.00 a Year
ELECTRIC RAILWAY JOURNAL
The undisputed authority on the construc
tion, operation and management of city 
and inter-urban railways.
Published Weekly$3.00 a Year
Special Rates to Students 
Sample Copies on Request
McGRAW PUBLISHING CO.
239 West 39 StreetNew York
xo\o\o\o\o\o\o\oxo\o\o\o\o\o\o\$xo:\o
O\0NO\O\0\0\0N0\0\0N0\0\0%0\0%0\0\0X
*
0 ?
1 W
o.8
Wo?
HEIMERT'SWHERE ALL THE MEN GO
in quarter sizes.
IROQUOIS LOCK>*^
OAKLAND HATTER AND HABERDASHER
Open evenings until 9 oclock Saturday 
evening until 11 oclock.
0
CHRISTMAS SHOPPING HAS BESUN
Xmas Neckwear, Suspenders, Handkerchiefs, 
Gloves and Shirts. In large assortments 
Fancy Holiday Boxes for all Holiday goods: 
GRATIS
Holeproof Hosiery put up in fancy Xmas 
boxes. $1.50 a box. 6 pair in a box. Guar
anteed to wear six monfths.
Ask to see the new red men collar, made by g 
Earl & Wilson. Two for a quarter M
Q
Ig%.I
01 i 8 8
88
dI88*O*8
TyTVTyTWTWTyTWTWvyTWTWTWTyTWTVWVTVTM f i  BRACE BROS. |
LAUNPERERS | 
DYERS, CLEANERS |IPittsburg, Pa. |
PITB URBIG,A FNLCNGA Jp HI 1VoV oluVoVomoVoveVue V vTWV eVoVIoeoVoeo
| JHE RITTENHOUSE
| BALL ROOM HAS A
I CUSHIONED FLOOR
| PERFECT xo\ DANCING
PRIVATE DINING ROOM
FOR CLASS DINNERS 
IS A DREAM
I Kuhns in the Rittenhouse |

---------------------------------------------------

VOL. Ill, No. 12artan
NbooraTwDsI NthI VYnCYrnpyI nY0Y1aYw JI RJi,TEN CENTS
ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION BANQUET
The first annual banquet of the Athletic Associa
tion was held on Saturday night at the Rittenhouse, 
in honor of the foot-ball team. The tables were set 
somewhat in the form of the letter E, the members 
of the team as the guests of honor, occupying the 
central section. It was just half after eight when the 
diners entered the banquet hall. Dean Connelley, 
of the School for Apprentices and Journeymen, acted 
as toastmaster, and bid the assemblage be seated. 
The dinner was good, well served, and merriment 
seemed to be forever running around the tables. A 
number of the Glee Club were grouped in one place, 
and their songs added immensely to the enjoyment 
of the evening, their first number being Amici. 
While the dessert was being circulated, Mr. Dorrington arrived, breathless and hungry. It was truly sur
prising in what a short space of time he was able; 
to resume his usual number of respirations per min
ute, eat his dinner and start the Club singing Good 
Fellowship. Hardly had the applause subsided un
til the amiable toastmaster was on his feet, leading 
all present as a grand chorus in Schooldays. .
Mr. Birge of the A. & J. School, was the first 
speaker. Introduced as one of the most enthusias
tic ropters of the faculty grandstand, he began 
telling of the things that were uppermost in his 
mind up to that time during the evening, beginning 
with a short quotation from Big Pinkey Frampton 
came out of the west. The team, he said, reminded 
him of a story of a very large and powerful locomo
tive that was being tried out on the hardest runs of 
the railroad company owning it. For a long time 
nothing went right, accidents kept happening, and 
it was not long until the monster became known as 
the hoodoo. Finally an engineer came and wanted 
to see what he could make it do; given the chance,
he soon had the engine running as no other engine 
on the road had ever run before. All that was need
ed was the man to understand it. Our foot-ball 
team was compared to the new and misunderstood 
locomotive, and the man who was able to make it 
do things, likened to Coach Knox.
Prof. Esquerre was next. His position of Turkish 
Bath expert to the team, makes it possible for him to 
tell lots of things of the habits and characteristics 
of the fellows on the team.
The speech of Coach Knox summed up the situa
tion better than any other. He said in part: This 
affair is just to wind up the season with a good 
taste in our mouths, for the season is over now 
foot-ball is not a business. This has always been 
my idea of it, and it is the one expressed here. We 
are all out for the fun of it, and I get just as much 
of the fun out of it as any of the fellows do. I wish 
to take this opportunity to thank the student body 
and the faculty for the support they have given me. 
After all, it is the thing that counts. The right 
spirit prevails here, and it is aimed at the right ends. 
Thanks are due your captain for the support he has 
given me, and to Mr. Snitzer and Prof. Aude for the 
unselfish interest they have shown. It would have 
been impossible for me to get the results I did with
out their help, for one man cannot do everything. 
And then there are the scrubs. Their work is the 
most hopeless, for they know they have no chance 
of making the team, and yet they would come to be 
knocked all over the field. They all deserve a great 
deal of credit. A good team cannot be developed 
without their services. There was only one time 
when I was actually frightened for fear there would 
be no team left, and that was on the Marietta trip. 
At the dance after the game, you should have seen

---------------------------------------------------

4THE TARTAN
the way those students went after the fair sex! It 
was so strenuous that even your Director, who I hear 
has most decided ideas on the proper conduct of 
young men, would have been unable to do anything. 
He concluded by expressing his delight at having 
the opportunity to have been with us this fall.
Mr. Snitzer said he considered it a privilege to be 
allowed to come here to work, and wished that his 
work would be forgotten so that it could be added 
to that of his old friend Bill Knox. In speaking of 
the scores of the season he considered the teams 
played as being several years beyond our present 
stage of development. Boys, I came out here by 
request, and I am still here because I like you. 
Prof. Aude, introduced as Bobby, has not had 
enough of it yet, and wished every time he was on 
the field he had a suit on, so that he could make 
them go at it a little harder. He made an elaborate 
comparison between a game of foot-ball and the pres
ent situation with our team as he understands it. 
After all, the game of life is a game of foot-ball. 
The Glee Club then varied the program by piping 
up with a clever and pretty song called Ach Louie. 
When the toastmaster mentioned the name of Mr. 
Leeds as the next speaker, it was all the further he 
got with the prefatory remarks. Rising amid the 
greatest ovation given any of the speakers of the 
evening, he bowed his thanks and began. Briefly 
explaining the plan he had placed before the day 
school for the benefit of the night men that were 
present, he announced that it would be brought be
fore all of the night classes Wednesday and Thurs
day. He then suggested having graduate or other 
coaches for the Plebe and Industrial teams, in order 
that any good material that there might be in them 
could be properly trained and made more useful to 
the regular squad. To show that the interest of 
an active kind is not confined exclusively to the 
boys of the schools, he stated that one of the secre
tarial and book-keeping classes of the Margaret 
Morrison School would keep the books of the Asso
ciation in the future, and as it meant a great deal of 
work lifted from his shoulders, he was more than 
deeply thankful to the young ladies.
Scotty Henderson, called upon at this point be
gan in the middle of his speech, and then hesitatng a 
moment, said: I began in the wrong place and 
without the proper introduction, so I had better put 
that in now. Mr. Toastmaster, and gentlemen (long 
pause, then hurriedly) and the Faculty. Among 
the things brought out in his speech was the advo
cacy of an easier schedule for next year, and the at
tributing of the Tech spirit to the inter-mingling of 
the faculty and students. Then concluding about 
the season, We have been licked but we have not 
been subdued.
The Director spoke in his usual easy style. It 
is easily told what we love most; our Alma Mater 
first, and then each other. Foot-ball is the one game 
that can be played better by those men in college 
than those out of it. Dowling has done more for 
Athletics here in the Tech Schools than any other
one man. I have, at my request, just witnessed a 
foot-ball election. I wanted to see what one was like. 
When it was announced that Hittner had been elect
ed captain, I felt that the fifteen votes cast had told 
where the actual honors of the season belong. Of 
Mr. Knox, I cannot speak too highly. I have been 
watching him closely ever since he came; his con
versation, his actions, his way of doing things, when
ever I could spare the time, and everything I have 
seen and heard of him only adds to my admiration 
of him as a man. The team as a whole wish that 
he can return to coach them for a number of years 
to come. You must keep yourselves pure, clean; 
must never sell pleasure nor put a price on it, and 
stay on the right path. As has been said by your 
coach, Foot-ball is not a business. There are too 
many institutions of learning in the country that are 
making it a business, but by so doing they are win
ning field victories and suffering moral defeats.
The Glee Club were just finishing The Sandman 
when Bill Pfouts was requested to speak (he needs 
no introduction). The auditors were all prepared 
for the usual volume of sound and depth of tone 
that ordinarily accompanies Mr. Pfouts utterances, 
but only the ghost of the natural strength of his 
voice issued forth, and that was telling us that the 
remainder of it had been left at Exposition Park, 
where he had been in the Pitt section at the foot-ball 
game rooting for W. & J. His remarks were brief 
and to the point, advocating clean sports and in
sisting that, the team, in his estimation, had never 
been beaten.
Mr. Tarbell was introduced as the gentleman from 
Harvard. He should have been placed last on the 
program, as fireworks always forms a fitting and 
brilliant close to any elaborate function. In declar
ing that the Toastmaster had sprung the trap on 
him without any warning, he started the pin-wheels 
of his exhibition revolving, and soon had the red 
fire making the clouds on the distant horizon look 
like magnificent squadrons of phantom ships and 
darksome shapes indefinable, under which the im
pressive buildings of the Carnegie Technical Schools 
could be seen to rise from their place in regions 
etherial. Many a mouth was agape and its owner 
entranced, as the flower pots, the Roman candles 
and the sky-rockets rose shrieking into the azure 
depths of the evening sky and lost themselves-in 
the showers of sparks and masses of flameyes, he 
made a very flowery speech.
Dean Leete, of the School of Applied Science, 
was the next on the list of speakers. He spoke of 
the habit prevalent among so many, of judging the 
success of the season on the scores published in the 
papers, as being an entirely wrong notion of what 
constitutes a successful season. We will have the 
same successful season as long as the same whole
some spirit prevails among the students.
Mr. Mackrell, one of our friends connected with 
the local newspaper, was present, and responded, 
when called upon, with a very clever speech. Buck 
Thomson began, I am the first student of the

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN5
Schools from deali old Gawdga. In presenting 
Prof. Aude with a silver loving cup, and Mr. Snitzer 
a gold watch, he could only emphasize what had al
ready been said of their services. Wink Dowling 
comfortable and happy up to this time, blinked 
when rudely thrust into the glare of the spot light. 
I amjust alittlebit nervous, friends, I dont 
know just where to begin or what to say. Ten
dering the formal thanks of the team to Aude and 
Snitzer, he presented Knox with a handsome stick
pin, the gift of the team.
GastonI would like to have you know that our 
friend Mr. Knox was some fusser himself at the 
Marietta dance, and I never can forget the way 
Snitzer would say, Here, Beek, I want you to meet 
Miss Uhuhkuka, didnt know the girl at all, but 
worked the bluff successfully every time. During 
the rah-rahing, led by Doernberger, that greeted his 
close, Hefty was seen to be rah-rahing with the best 
of them. Hittner, as the newly elected captain, 
gave his assurance that the position would be filled 
to the best of his ability, and Coach Knox concluded 
the evenings program by 'presenting Cs to Wagner, 
Gaston, Naismith, Marshall, Ramp, Beeken, Patter
son, McKorkle, Hatcher, Hittner, Frampton, Brown, 
Roura, iSchmucker, Dowling, Thompson.
| NINETEEN-TWELVE |
It is deeds, not words, that count, said one of 
our instructors the other evening.
Oh, I dont know, chirped Brightness from the 
rear, how about sending a telegram?
Brightness must have been telegraphing to pa in 
dear old Franklin, Pa., that he needed some where
with.
A philosopher in our midst and we knew it not! 
Last Monday evening Finch let this loose: There 
never has been a man so important that when he 
died the world did likewise.
Hess says: Here I am, just at the best time of my 
life, when I should be enjoying myself immensely. 
Here I am grinding away. I tell you, fellows, its 
foolishness. I havent been to a party or a dance 
for over three months. I am going to cut loose and 
have a good time. And forthwith he departed to 
what enjoyment he can obtain.
]
No,remarked Stuart, money isnt everything, 
but the things it isnt dont worry me very much.
Rees Griffith, who works in Greensburg, says that 
in that town all the policemen live on Copps Hill.
Laughlin, thinking the time ripe for a serious 
discussion, began, MissorerI mean Annie 
why, I (long pause). Well, now I have met many
young women, but whenorersince 1
Yes, she said, Mans made of dust.^hey say;
The man I want is he,
With sand enough to find a way 
To make the dust for me.
And Laughlin sorrowfully took his departure.
N. B.This all happened last .Sunday evening after  
church. Never mind where.
Poor Bill! Poor Bill!
Bill had a bill-board,
Bill also had a board-bill,
The board bill bored Bill,
So that Bill sold the bill-board 
To pay his board bill.
So after Bill sold his bill-board 
To pay his board bill.
The bill board no longer bored Bill.
It is the unanimous opinion of the class that Gal
ley is the handsomest young man within a radius 
of ten miles, yet Gilliard demanded an apology when 
inadvertantly addressed as Galley, old boy.
Hotels of the Future.
The devil sat by the open door 
Of everlasting gloom:
Dont crowd, said he,
To the company,
Theres always plenty of room. Ex.
We will now have the pleasure of drawing the 
curve with colored chalk.
Prof. Aude also had the pleasure of passing out a 
few white cards.
By some persons mistake in the Registrars office, 
there were one or two persons overlooked.
GLEE AND MANDOLIN CLUBS.
The Glee and Mandolin Clubs each held successful 
pracices last Sunday afternoon. It was announced 
that the annual concert in Carnegie Musio Hall will 
be given Tuesday, February 2d, 1909. With this 
and other dates in view, work towards the prepara
tion of a high class program has redoubled. Our 
concert last year was a great credit to the schools 
and there is every reason to believe that the musical 
standard will be higher this year than ever before. 
Rehearsals every Sunday at 2:45 P. M.
A portion of the Mandolin Club played at the West 
Penn Hospital benefit last Monday a week at the 
Rittenhouse. The affair was informal and gave the 
fellows a good time as well as some good practice.
Special Notice to the Journeymen.
Mr. Bowers was elected President of the Journey
man classes instead of Mr. Miller, as was published 
in last week's Tartan.
Edward Allman,

---------------------------------------------------

6THE TARTAN
M. M. C. S.
A TALE OF ZELIENOPLE.
Last summer I spent a week in a little country 
place called Zelienople. During that week I heard 
more ghost stories than I had ever heard before in 
my life. There was an Old Womans Club there; 
of course, these women met together to do some 
sewing for the poor, but that did not stop their gos
sip. They could sew diligently, and talk diligently, 
too.
It was at this club that I heard my ghost stories. 
Naturally none of the old ladies believed a story 
was true in which a ghost appeared,oil, no, they 
.were too wise for that. But I noticed that when 
they had finished their tale, which they had begun 
in a laughing tone, they sobered down, and would 
almost whisper their last words.
All their stories were interesting, but there was 
one which appealed to me more than the rest. My 
grandmother was born and raised in Zelienople, 
when it had just two or three houses, the Inn, and 
a store. This story was one of the Inn, and was 
told to me by one of the old ladies in this fashion: 
Away back in the early thirties, the Inn used to be 
the only stopping place this side the mountains, and 
it was crowded most of the time. There was much 
moving about the country in those days, and the 
people going either East or West stopped at Zelien
ople.
One time a man came riding up to this Inn. He 
was on a beautiful horse, and he was dressed like 
no gentleman of these parts. Giving his reins to a 
boy, he jumped down and went inside. Some of the 
men who loafed in the Inn, saw him nand over a 
large roll of bills to the proprietor, saying, I am 
going out to hunt, but I will be back by supper 
time. He got on his horse and rode off. Before 
he left, though, he gave the boy, who had held his 
horse for him, a quarter, so you may know he was 
rich. The men came out and watched him go riding 
out that Connequenessing road. He disappeared 
finally and the men went back again to sit around 
the fire and talk. They made up their minds to wait 
until he should come back, and then get acquainted 
with him.
Well, he never came back. The men waited until 
late, and finally, a searching party was sent out to 
look for him, but they never found him. His people 
from the North sent several detectives to try to find 
out something of where he had gone to, but after 
they had searched the house and asked some foolish 
questions, we women thought, they gave it up in 
despair and went back home. Some of the folks 
around here thought he had met robbers in the 
woods, and they had killed him and carried him off. 
Others thought that some animal had killed him 
and then taken his body to some out of the way 
place.
But we women had our suspicions. We thought 
the keepers of the Inn knew something about it. It 
was talked about for quite a long time, but gradually 
it all quieted down, and there has been very little 
said about it until the last few weeks. I guess 
there werent many people knew about it, but you 
and me, Mrs. Allen. What? Did 1 forget some
thing? Oh, yes, I did forget the ghost part of my 
story.
Well, the people of the Inn have been growing 
richer all the time, and they always seemed to look 
down on us country people. But theyve had an 
awful lot of trouble, and Ive gone in occasionally to 
help them out, as I have been pretty prosperous in 
the way of trouble. They told me that their house 
was haunted; there was a room that nobody dared 
go into, for every time anybody went into it, a ghost 
would appear, so they kept this room locked up. 
The Inn keepers wife was a superstitious old soul, 
and she believed that this ghost was bringing them 
all their trouble.
A month ago the old father died, and then the 
children and their mother moved into town. The 
people who bought their house, remodeled it. The 
room that was always kept locked was a room cut 
off the porch, and they were tearing this down to 
enlarge it. The men were pulling down old boards 
and digging up the cellar, when suddenly they all 
stopped. Some one had cried out, Whats this? 
There, buried down Underneath that locked room 
was a body of a man,not a body, but a skeleton 
now. There was no way of telling who it was, but 
still there wasn't much guessing. No wonder those 
people were bothered by ghosts!
This is a tale which my grandmother had told me 
many years before I listened to the old lady, but of 
course, not knowing what had become of the man 
who had gone off in that day of long ago, she, like 
the detectives could only guess at the remainder of 
the story.
D. J., 1910.
A
Miss Dee (reading in Sec. History)In colonial 
days the ride and tie system was used in traveling. 
Four persons started out with one horsetwo riding 
and two walking. Those riding went a mile, dis
mounted, tied the horse, and started out on foot. 
When those walking came to the tied horse, they 
mounted, rode a mile and dismounted. Then they 
in turn tied the horse and walked on. In this way 
the travel was carried on, etc.
Miss MacGilvrayIt was a regular game of leap 
frog, wasnt it?
Miss Arrowsmith (in English)"Who knows the 
story of Thisbe and Pyramis?
Miss Alice Johns (Sen. Sec.)I know, its some
thing about kissing through a chink in the wall. I 
know, because I've acted it all outoh! on the stage, 
of course!

---------------------------------------------------

Quite Ancient.
osY ut
Miss Shuman"Say, Dorothy, what makes this 
eraser so hard?
Miss ScottOh, you know, Ive had that ever 
since I was a child and it's petrified.
Miss Fisher (in English)"Miss Gottfried, give 
an example ofan imperative sentence.
Miss GottfriedPay as you enter!
A poet was favoring a friendly soul with his latest 
verses, which were supposed to be descriptive of a 
beautiful girl. The poet said:
Her hair was massed in flowing curls,
The color of a whisper.
This made the listener sit up. Whats that? 
he said. Read that again.
I thought you would say something about that, 
the poet answered. I dont want to appear ego
tistical, but that little phrase gives scope for the 
exercise of the mind.
In what way?
Dont you see how beautifully that describes the 
shade of her hair? Every poet speaks of golden 
hair or raven locks. To be a success one must be 
original. Well, she did not have golden hair. It 
was nearly golden, and I convey the impression by 
means of that one word.
The other still looked puzzled.
You have heard, said the poet patiently, that 
silence is golden?
Yes, the other admitted.
Well, resumed the poet, if silence is golden, 
what would a whisper be? It would be nearly golden, 
wouldnt it?
The poet laughed. The other was sitting down 
and could not stagger so he laughed, too.
The first year night class has elected the following 
officers:
PresidentMrs. M. E. Smith.
Vice PresidentMiss Burgoyne. 
Secretary-TreasurerMiss Fisher.
OPENING OF THE NEW TESTING STATION.
On Thursday afternoon the Tri-Junior Classes in 
Metallurgy, Chemistry and Mining, accompanied by 
Mr. McIntosh, visited the government Arsenal 
grounds, Fortieth and Butler streets, where they 
witnessed the formal opening of the newly estab
lished Station for the Investigation of Mine Explo
sions. Secretary of the -Interior, Hon. James R. 
Garfield, after a few interesting remarks concerning 
the institution, declared the Testing Station open. 
Following this was a series of tests involving ex
plosions of powder, gases, and mixtures of gases 
and dusts, under various conditions. The Station 
presents many interesting features, and one interest
ed along these lines of investigation will be well 
repaid for a visit to the grounds.
RT AN 7
The Technique Literary Society held its first 
meeting last Thursday. Only half the members 
were present, but in spite of this, the meeting was 
the most entertaining one held as yet. Werner made 
a hit with his talk on American Girls. Heckart 
was a close second, with an interesting discourse on 
The Causes of the Defeat of American Cars at Sa
vannah. After the meeting Young acted as host 
and it is hardly necessary to say that a good feed 
was piovided.
HeckartI am sorry to regret that you have not 
complied with my request.
Young has formed quite an attachment for his 
rubber doll.
Cupid has visited the Machine Shop again, and 
this time Chambers is the victim.
IndustrialsB-1.
Mr. Schroth, of the B-1 class, has returned to his 
studies after a weeks absence, due to the death of 
his mother. The B-1 class wish to extend to 
him the most heartfelt sympathy.
In the memory of the Hon. Jib. Boom. HaysMr. 
Hays was born in Sewickley, Pa. (a watering sta
tion) in the year of eighteen hundred and January. 
His life was one of rest and repose. He wrote sev
eral novelsDiamond Dick, Black Jack, of the Moun
tains, etc. He was a great debater, also a rebater, 
as he rides to Sewickley for 5c when the fare is 23c. 
He has gone (boo-hoo) to Applied Design. (Its all 
right, isnt it?) Oh! you Hays! Do you know that 
you are delivered (a Biblical phrase) from our math 
class? And from the Plumbing class? See! Um! 
No more burned fingers and no more slinging mortar. 
So dream on.
PERTINENT AND IMPERTINENT.
We wonder what the local newspaper dopester, 
who had Pittsburg defeating Pennsylvania, Yale, 
etc., by comparative scores, thinks now.
Burnside, '08, Electrical, has returned to Colorado.
* Foster and Huntley recently left Guayaquil, Ecua
dor, for the interior. They have taken positions 
with the South American Development Company.
Prof. Crabtree still leads his class in Metallurgy 
in those little personally conducted tours in search 
of an unoccupied lecture room.

---------------------------------------------------

8 THE
THE TARTAN
Published Weekly During the School Year by Stu
dents of Carnegie Technical Schools, Pittsburg, Pa.
Entered at the Pittsburgh post office as second class matter
F. I. Gaston, 09Editor-in-Chief 
Lowell W. Nicols, 10Associate Editor 
J. H. Taxis, 10, NightAssociate Editor 
Bess E. Sheets, M. M. C. S.Associate Editor 
J. Roura, 10Business Manager
Subscription Rates
Yearly ............................................................. $2.00
Single Copy .............................................10 Cents
For Advertising Rates, address the Business Manager, care Carnegie Technical Schools.
WM. H. DOSEY.
Oan any one imagine the low state into which 
Faculty athletics had fallen, in that memorable year 
in which the Faculty took its last base-ball defeat. 
And how different the condition now. We, of course, 
do not charge that the Faculty was chosen with re
gard to their ball playing ability, but isnt it peculiar 
that the gaps at first and second base were filled 
so admirably by Mr. Dosey and Professor Crabtree 
respectively? Can any one forget the way Mr. Dosey 
gallops back for the bag when the hot liner goes 
down toward short? Of course, Hal Chase may have 
something on him as a first baseman, but we doubt 
it. Besides Hal has to make quick motions with his 
feet, otherwise he would never arrive while Mr. 
Dosey takes two steps and there he is. On the 
coaching line, while lacking the volatility of Mr. 
Leeds, he makes up by superior experience and never 
fails to arouse terror in the breast of thi opposing 
pitcher.
And in the Foundry! WTell the case is somewhat 
different there. At the inception of his pedagogical 
career he met face to face an opposition to regular 
work, particularly in the shops, that would have 
weakened the will of one less resolute. Rumor has 
it that some who knew Bresnahan's batting average 
and why Strang charged his name to Nicklin, or was 
it the other way? could ease up temporarily along 
late in spring term; but for the majority the Foundry 
has meant, since under the reign of William the 
second, aplace where something had to be done.
Mr. Dosey came to the schools after several years 
of foundry experience both as foreman and journey
man and immediately proceeded to make the work 
in foundry practice more practical and at the same 
time more interesting.
The fall term is almost gone, and as yet there 
seems to have been nothing done toward getting out 
the Thistle. Last year the preparation of the 
book was long delayed, owing to the dispute as to 
the editing of it, but this year theie is no occasion 
for any misunderstanding of that kind, and unless 
the idea is to wait and eclipse the record of last 
years board in quick editing, it is up to somebody 
to start things right soon.
It would naturally devolve upon the Junior Class 
of Day Applied Science to start preparations; but as 
that class is not very large, owing to lengthening 
the course, they will probably have to call on the 
Sophomores for assistance. Last year Mr. Gray 
and his associates got out by far the best annual to 
date in record time. This year there is no occasion 
for any such delay and with a larger school, more 
interest and more student organizations to be written 
up, there is no reason why this years Thistle 
should not be a record-breaker.
A RT A N
APPLIED DESIGN.
The report from the last judgment of the Society 
of Beaux Arts Architects was received on Saturday, 
December 5. This judgment included the first three 
problems of the year in Design,in Archaeology, 
Orders and Class B Plan respectively.
In the judgment of the problem in Archaeology 
the students of the Technical Schools made a fine 
showing. The subject of this problem was A Clock 
Tower of the French Renaissance Style. Out of 11 
projects presented, 10 received mentions, and of the 
latter, two were mentioned with special honor, those 
presented by Messrs. Walter Jones, Jr., and O. J. 
Robling.
Our competitors also received excellent results in 
the judgment of the Order problem. The subject of 
this problem was A Covered Bridge Connecting two 
Buildings. Thirty projects were presented by our 
School and of these 20 received mentions. Two 
projects, those of Messrs. W. F. Burkhart and E. F. 
Griffith, were mentioned with special honor.
The subject of the Class B Plan problem was an 
Elevated Railway Station. In consequence of a 
very faulty programme for this problem, all the 
competitors suffered severely in the judgment. Our 
students, however, came out as well as the competi
tors from other ateliers. Seven of our students 
were accorded mentions.

---------------------------------------------------

4TH 4E A4ER9
THE OAKLAND SAVINGS AND TRUST COMPANY
TRIES TO TREAT ITS PATRONS JUST A LITTLE BETTER THAN ANY OTHER BANK 
CAPITAL $200,000.00 SURPLUS $126,000.00
OFFICERS :
JAS. J. FlyANNERY, ... President JAMES J. BOOTH, - - - Vice PresidentJOHN G. PEW, - - 2nd V. Pres, and Sec.C. B. AYI,ESWORTH, ... - Treasurer
TEN COMMANDMENTS FOR THE BUSINESS.
In the Boston Commercial, Graham Hood gives ten 
commandments for the business world, as follows:
1. Thou shalt not wait for something to turn up, 
but thou shalt pull off thy coat and go to work that 
thou mayst prosper in thy affairs and make the 
word failure spell success.
2. Thou shalt not be content to go about thy 
business looking like a bum, for thou shouldnt know 
that thy personal appearance is better than a letter 
of recommendation.
3. Thou shalt not try to make excuses, nor shalt 
thou say to those who chide thee, I didnt think.
4. Thou shalt not wait to be told what thou shalt 
do, nor in what manner thou shalt do it, for thus 
may thy days be long in the job which fortune hath 
given thee.
5. Thou shalt, not fail to maintain thine own in
tegrity, nor shalt thou be guilty of anything that will 
lessen thy good respect for thyself.
G. Thou shalt not covet the other fellow's job, nor 
his salary, nor the position that he hath gained by 
his own hard labor.
7. Thou shalt not fail to live within thv income, 
nor shalt thou contract any debts when thou canst 
not see thy way clear to pay them.
8. Thou shalt not be afraid to blow thine own 
horn, for he who failest to blow his own horn at the 
proper occasion findeth nobody standing ready to 
blow it for him.
9. Thou shalt not hesitate to say No when thou 
meanest No, nor shalt thou fail to remember that 
there are times when it is unsafe to bind thyself by a 
hasty judgment.
10. Thou shalt give every man a square deal. 
This is the last and great commandment, and there 
is no other like unto it. Upon this commandment 
hang all the law and the profits of the business 
world.
Slag brick are made in England from blast furnace 
slag, according to Engineering, by first running 
the slag in a molten condition into water. It is then 
passed between rolls, which remove the excess of 
water and crush any large particles. White, un
slaked lime ground to an 8,000 mesh is stated to have 
proved most satisfactory for mixing with the slag. 
This lime must not contain more than IV2 per cent, 
of magnesia. From 93 to 95 per cent, of slag and
7 and 5 per cent, of lime are placed in a iteam-jacketed mixing machine, where the heat and the moisture 
of the slag start the reaction of the lime. The mix
ture is then put in presses which form the brick, and 
the latter is taken to steaming chambers. These 
bricks are stated to have a crushing strength of 2,500 
to 3,000 lb. per square inch, and to withstand boiling 
and freezing tests fairly well. The labor cost of 
producing them is stated to be about $1 per thousand, 
and their total cost at the work is given as about 
$4.35 per thousand.
Professor, is there any danger of disturbing the 
magnetic currents if I examine that compass too 
closely?
And the stern professor, loving his little joke, 
promptly responded:
No, sir; brass has no effect whatever on them. 
Ex.
A FAMOUS NEW YORK HATTER MAKES
!
*
I
TECH-NEGIE
Proper headwear for all occasions, 
Silk and Opera, Derbies, soft hats and 
caps. The best kinds of both foreign 
and domestic manufacture. Write for 
our style book.
TECH-MONT
Otto Getting
Fifth and Wylie Seventh and Smithfield 
%NVN\SVNX*VVNXV\NV\\\VNXWN%N\\\S\\*XN%NSNN\S\N\\\W\\N\S\\\V\\V\\\\N\\\\V
5

---------------------------------------------------

IOTHE TARTAN
PLEBE CLASS
P. M. Lippincott, 12, of Applied Design, made a 
remarkable speech in English Friday on Strikes 
and Knockouts. He secured his material for the 
sermon from the prize-fight Monday night at Duquesne Garden.
How about Prof. Trinks scientific slang? His 
latest is Masticate the fabric.
Have you any relations on Mars? Prof. Keller 
hasnt.
Mr. Aude would like to know why Section B is so 
proficient in working a problem when the matter of 
dollars and cents is involved. Perhaps they are conthinking of their Christmas money.
A member of Section F, while making a speech 011 
athletics in English class, said that he could spend 
his time in a manner more advantageous to himself 
and to society, than going to a foot-ball game. Let 
us gently remind this member that there is a sure
cure for knockers down in the foundry.
Gov. Stone is getting to be quite a professional 
in the moving picture line. We sincerely hope that 
he will not go into business, as we would be at a 
great loss without this talented entertainer.
Little Willie is dead and gone,
We shall see him never more,
Has he gone to where they drink H2 O,
Or where they drink H2 S 04?
It would be a good stunt to hold on to your chairs 
when Prof. Follows walks across the room, as they 
might start to slide, owing to the slight inclination 
of the floor.
It is with great pleasure that we hear that Billy Hittner has been chosen to lead the foot-ball team next 
year. This is the first time that such an honor has 
been conferred upon a member of the Piebe Class. 
His speech of acceptance was a wonderful piece of 
oratory.
Prof. McGoodwin to F. X. KeallyWhat kind of 
building material did the Egyptians use?
KeallyThey did not use stone, but limestone.
The Decorators entertain their visitors with a 
song and solo by Withers and one from Hoffman.
Some one buy L. H. Persley a box of matches so 
he can smoke his Dukes mixture.
A penny dropped on the floor when Mv. Lee was 
lecturing. He said he wanted in on the game. We 
wonder what he meant.
SCHENLEY FARMS
O FIFTH AVE. BELLEFI ELD AVE.
* FINE RESIDENCE PROPERTY
 For prices and terms apply
ROOM 1411 FARMERS BANK BUILDINGg ROOM 1411 FARMERS BANK BUILDING ^
*xc*xc^xo*xc^x%*xc^xc^xc^xaj*xa*xo*xd
o\o\oxo\o\o\o\o\o\o\o\o\o\o\o\o\o\o\
O BARNEY

& BERRY and WINSLOW 
HOCKEY SKATES 
Skates Ground Oil Finish 25c.Oakland Hardware Co. $
^ Iroquois Block 3606 Forbes Street, g
XOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXO*OXOX<3\Q
WTVTWTWTWTWTVTMTWWWTWTVTVTvwW'r t Q AMonogram School Stationery, gold or in any <r>
$*!* color, can be had from Mitchell, Soph. Mining, ^
* O$ or Johnson, Soph. Electrical, for 5Cc per quire, jf*
In the autumn time of year,
When old Nature breathes good cheer 
And has yielded all -her treasure 
To barns bursting with good measure.
In the mild September days,
Which the poets love to praise,
We camea flock of timid lambs,
Just newly weaned from our dams.
As innocent as sheep could be,
And pure as drifted snow were we,
No evil thoughts we dared to think 
Of students who would smoke or drink.
Of hungry wolves we met a pack,
Who closely followed on our track,
And day nor night we had no rest,
Until we showed them who was lost.
The haughty Sophs, with feigned smiles,
Enticed us by their artful wiles,
To the race track,on the hill,
To try with them our tensile skill.
We would have pulled them off the lost,
But on a snag the cable caught,
And then they handed out the dope 
That we had won by stretchy rope.
By such treatment, unexpected,
Our childish faith was soon corrected,
For miserable to the very core 
Were the policies of Sophomore.
From dancing, prancing, little lambs,
We quickly grew to robust rams,
Nobodys bluff well swallow, now
Were from Missouri, show 11s how.
To-day we stand a class supreme 
Around our heads, the hallos beam,
Our records marred by no mean play,
Dots in yeneral, so to say.
Ive really tried to make you see,
And surely youll agree with me 
That in this school of engineers 
The Plebe class hasnt any peers.
'iJ

---------------------------------------------------

uP. utdutf11
PLEBE BANQUET.
On Thursday, December 3, at the Rittenhouse, the 
class of 1912 held its first banquet. It had been ru
mored that our friends of the Class of 1911 wished 
to help us pay for the feast, but fearing that they 
might beggar themselves by their generosity, the 
date and place of the affair were kept a profound 
secret. The Sophomores were completely outgen
eraledbut let us refrain from crowing over their 
defeat. It doesnt look well for us to jump on them 
when they are down.
The guests were: Mr. Leete, Dean of Applied Sci
ence; Prof. McGoodwin, Applied Design; Captain 
Dowling, Editor-in-Chief Gaston, and Mr. Sampson, 
President of the Alumni. But hold onwe were al
most forgetting a very important, though somewhat 
unwilling guest, President McCorkle, of the Sopho
more class.
Mr. Leete gave us a very earnest speech, dealing 
with our duties as students and men.
Prof. McGoodwin spoke on class organization.
Captain Dowling gave a talk on Athletics.
Editor-in-Chief Gaston gave a very good talk on 
general topics.
Mr. Sampson spoke of the respective values of 
theory and practice. All the speeches were good, 
and we would have liked them to have lasted a little 
longer.
Mr. McCorkle was also called upon, and gave a 
brief account of his capture.
Before he finished speaking we were all quite sure 
the the Sophomore Class had a rattling good presi
dent.
Several students were called on: Gov. Stone, and 
Gamble, who read the poem published below.
President Henderson acted as toast-master, and 
did the honors gracefully.
After much singing, and merry-making, the ban
quet finally came to a close, and we all started out 
for home, tired but happy.
Without the musical services of Mr. Roy Hodgdon, 
of the School of Applied Design, at the banquet, the 
affair would have ended in a rather slow way com
pared to the doings while the banquet was at its 
height. We all extend our heartiest thanks to Mr. 
Hodgdon for the way he tickled the piano.
TECHMONT CLUB SMOKER.
The Techmont Club gave its second annual smoker 
at the club house on last Friday evening. The Fac
ulty was represented by Dr. Hamerschlag and Profes
sors Follows and Doyle, and the foot-ball team was 
well represented. The evening was spent at card 
playing and talking over the seasons work. Lunch 
was served at 11.30, at which 43 sat down. After 
some interesting talks by Professors Doyle and Fol
lows and Messrs. Dowling and Nicols, the evening 
was brought to a close by singing Alma Mater.
C. E1SNIER
ARTISTIC FLORIST
eYEHc Wia eMlFEYH 
.SD eMlY.M DEHOtSH
SPECIALTIES
soud R,GG .n,Gm,q EL2AT EG3
Bell PhoneJS Ililand
FoV/i-s
The largest stock on hand at all times 
is the one from which to select.
The prices are reasonable and con
sistent with the best quality.
A. W. SMITH
345 SIXTH AVENUEPITTSBURG, PA.
X)C "JTo-U. IC33.0-W
that we print more books than any firm in the East End ?..................................
X>o Z"-u. -w
that our Programs, Topic Cards and Leaflets elicit the admiration oflovers of Fine Printing ?...............................................
X> o-a. KXaao-w
that we are prompt, and that an order for a dollar receives as much care and attention as one for a hundred dollars? . 
If you are fastidious, if you require prompt and efficient service, come to .
<Sx. extschee, 
6117*6119 Kirkwood Street
Bell Phones86 and 9216 Hiland
&%oxo\o\ov:>\o\o%o\o\o\<*\o\o\o\o\o%o%& #I/
A*
?8O?
**D
MELLON NATIONAL BANK
514 SMITHFI ELD STREET 
409 FIFTH AVENUE
CAPITAL$4,000,000
SOLICITS THE ACCOUNTS OF 
STUDENTS
RESOURCES OVER 41 MILLIONS

---------------------------------------------------

12THE TARTAN
Fraternity Pins, Class Pins, Badges, Prize Cups, Fine Tools
HEEREN BROS.& CO.IM'UFOTING JEVELS&SandMMI1H5
cEEYES PiOMDOStq RESS .9Er .SD EOtcac Har
We are the Makers of the Carnegie Tech School Pins
THE CRAFTSMAN CLUB.
The Craftsman Club held an exceptionally good 
meeting Friday evening, December 4, 08, having a 
large attendance and receiving eleven new members. 
This meeting was the last at which new members 
were received without an initiatory fee. Henceforth 
all new members will be assessed fifty cents and the 
dues, twenty-five cents per month. Interesting 
talks were given by Messrs. Connelly and Day. Mr. 
Connelly spoke on, The Ancient Process of Casting 
Steel, and used for an example, The Casting of 
Steel Cannons, and the benefit that can be derived 
from a talk to be given by Dr. Bradley Stoughton, 
of The Pittsburg Foundrymans Association, Monday 
evening, December 7, 08, at the Fulton building, at 
Sixth street and Duquesne Way. He gave the mem
bers of the Craftsman Club a very cordial invitation 
to attend, the members responding very heartily, as 
a party of thirty decided to attend. Mr. Day spoke 
of The Beneficial Elements of the Craftsman Club, 
which proved very interesting to the new members. 
Mr. Zellman appointed the following membership 
committeemen: Mr. J. M. Knox, Mr. A. H. Bigelow,
Mr. .J. P. Kelly, Mr. J. Murrey, Mr. H. C. Rendleman. 
The Craftsman have decided to purchase parapher
nalia for putting on a degree team, which promises 
to be a side-splitter from beginning to end, for the 
benefit of new members. After the meeting ad
journed music was furnished by Mr. Menking and 
a number of songs were rendered by the Craftsman 
Glee Club, and a jovial time prolonged. The Crafts
man Club hold a smoker Friday evening, December
11, 08, in Assembly Hall, all members being re
quested to attend, as this promises to be an elabor
ate entertainment.
Messrs. Zellman and Rendleman are requested to 
explain their absence last Thursday evening. The 
supposition is they were busy entertaining the ladies.
BASKET-BALL SCHEDULE.
Manager Coldren of the basket-ball team, has al
most completed his schedule of games. The list, as 
arranged so far, is given below. It will be noticed 
that the University of Pennsylvania is booked for a
game here on December 30th. Although this date 
occurs during the holiday recess, it is to be hoped 
that a good turn out be secured for this game. Teams 
coming from a distance naturally require a larger 
guarantee than those nearer at hand and aside from 
that fact there should be a large attendance, as this 
is the first year our basket-ball team has played 
Penn.
Schedule:
U. of P.Pittsburg, December 30.
Geneva CollegePittsburg, January 7.
Geneva Collegegeaver Falls, January 16.
Grove CityPittsburg, February 2.
Dickinson CollegeCarlisle, February 11.
Lehigh UniversityS. Bethlehem, February 12.
Westminster CollegePittsburg, February 18.
Allegheny CollegePittsburg, February 20.
Grove CityGrove City, February 26.
Allegheny CollegeMeadville, February 27.
Westminster CollegeN. Wilmington, March 6.
CALENDAR.
Wednesday.
HOCKEY PRACTICE10.30 P. M.
Thursday.
BASKET-BALL PRACTICE4.306.30 P. M.
Friday.
BASKET-BALL PRACTICE4.306.30 P. M.
Sunday.
GLEE AND MANDOLIN CLUBS REHEARSAL
2.45 P. M.
HOCKEY PRACTICE10.30 P. M.
If you wish a subscription to any engineering pub= 
lication they can be gotten through  The 
Tartan at student rates.
A

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
WHAT LARKIN HAS TO SAY.
Coach Larkin, of Cornell has written a few 
thoughts on Foot-ball spirit some of which are apro
pos here and others not so much so. The entire 
article is interesting whether applying to local con
ditions or not, so we have taken the liberty of re
producing it in toto.
FOOTB-BALL SPIRIT AT CORNELL.
Head Coach, P. Edward Larkin.
I have been asked to say a word about Foot-ball 
Spirit at Cornell by the editor of the Era. It is a 
difficult subject to treat for two reasons; firstly, 
there is scarcely anything to be said upon it; and 
secondly, what little there is to be said is of a rather 
unpleasant nature, for it appears to me from my 
limited observation of foot-ball spirit in other col
leges that Cornell stands very poorly when one 
makes the comparison.
It would seem that this fact could be demonstrated 
very plainly by figures. The fact that for the Var
sity squad only forty candidates could be obtained 
speaks for itself when one considers that this show
ing is only two per cent, of the students eligible. 
The Freshmen alone have twice that number, and 
that T believe augers well for the future of foot-ball 
at Cornell.
As the matter stands there is a pronounced diffi
culty in making up a complete second team to give 
the Varsity practice games, so essential, -f the team 
is to show finished form in the big matches. On 
several occasions the Alumni coaches present have 
themselves been compelled to take part in the prac
tice games in order to make a complete second 
team, and this was true several times at signal prac
tices.
And speaking of the Alumni it cannot be denied 
that the poor spirit shown to date has been confined 
to the undergraduates entirely, but that the Alumni 
themselves are equally guilty, I refer now particular
ly to the Alumni who have played on Cornell teams 
in the past, and who are expected to do their part 
in developing Cornell teams of the present and 
future.
Again we suffer by comparisan to other institu
tions of equal size. Yale, Pennsylvania, Harvard 
and Princeton during the past two or three weeks 
have had a coach on the field for every man in the 
Varsity line-up, and still some left over for the 
scrubs.
The yargest number of coaches that we have had 
upon the field this year outside of the resident 
coaches, is three, and that number but for two days. 
There have been times when for two weeks straight 
no one appeared. If Cornell expects to be rated
jj I am the only dry cleaner in Oakland that 
does his own work. I guarantee you satisfac* tion. See SHUMAN at 3911 Forbes Street.
His customers are pleased.
BLACKBURNS ACADEMY
of
BALL ROOM, FANCY, STAGE and STEP
DANCING....................................................
Physical Culture, Grace and Deportment 
401-403-405 Liberty Avenue, PITTSBURG, PA.
1925 CourtPhones9231 Court
omeeomeeomomumhoeogomemeoVoeoeomomomom
* WELL PRESSED IS WELL DRESSED
i ----------'i Liberty Cleaning & Pressing Co.
HD 301 South Craig Street
wk
FOR EXPERTSENGINEERS, ARCHITECTS, 
DRAUGHTSMEN  EXPERTS OR STUDENTS
Should get acquainted with the resources of supply 
for all Drawing and Artists Materials offered 
by this houseKurtz, Langbein & Swartz
606 Wood St., 6th Ave. 
OXO\0\0\0\0\0\0\ONO\ONO\0\0\0%0%0%0%
JAKES DANCING ACADEMY
Craig & Forbes Sts., Charles Bldg. 
CLASSESWednesday and Saturday Evenings 
PRIVATE LESSONSBy Appointment
5 Lessons, $2.00
SftXOXOXOXQXOXVXOXOXOXQXOXOXOXOXOXQXO
PHILLIPS & MANNING 
STATIONERS
MAGAZINES POST CARDS
3702 Forbes Street
CIGARS TOBACCO
1
II8xoxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxosoxo
R. W. MEDICK
HOME DRESSED MEATS AND 
POULTRY
3804 Forbes Street
88s*o*
/K5
O CHOICE
*
^ Both Phones
1 MURDOCH-KERR CO. 1
? PRINTERS AND PUBLISHERS W
S Ample Facilities Large Experience ^
HD Satisfactory Service HD
W STRAWBERRY AND CHERRY WAYS

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
HEAVY TAN OIL GRAIN BLUCHER SHOES 
FOR THE YOUNG MEN, $4.00 AND $5.00
6027 Penn STOEBENERS
6222 Fraimkstown EAST END
among the larger institutions in foot-ball, they either 
must get the finished material here, or develope the 
crude material that comes. And in roder to develop 
this, more coaches are absolutely necessary. This 
is particularly true at Cornell where the men are 
not able to get on the field until late in the afternoon.
It is plainly evident that with more coaches, more 
time could be expended upon each individual man.
Of course it must be admitted that a number of 
Cornell graduates are not financially able to leave 
their business as readily as the Alumni of other col
leges, and also that the location of Cornell, remote 
from the large centers of business, is undeniably a 
large factor in keeping the graduates from returning. 
With due allowance for all these things, however, 
the disparagement is greater than warranted by the 
situation, and we look for considerable improvement 
during the remainder of the season along this line, 
as well as in future seasons. If this improvement 
does not materialize there is no question that Cor
nell will be compelled to call upon the graduates of 
other colleges to teach her foot-ball.
Leaving this subject I would like to take the op
portunity to touch upon a few other points in rela
tion to foot-ball. It will be noted that the coaches * 
have decided to make secret practice a general rule 
for the remainder of this year. It was a step that 
they regretted to take, but it was not done without 
reasons that seemed to be sufficient justification.
In the first place, the criticism of the players by 
the men in the stands who do not understand the 
subject, had been found to be very detrimental. It 
is known as an absolute fact to the coaches that 
men physically able will not come out for the squad 
because they have not had any foot-ball experience 
in the past, and do not care to make themselves 
ridiculous by endeavoring to learn the game before a 
too humorously minded audience in the stands.
At present there is on the Varsity team a man who 
has made decidedly good, and yet it was only through 
the hardest kind of perseverance and in spite of the 
laughter that was directed towards his efforts to 
learn the rudiments of the game, such as tackling 
and falling on the ball, and even now when points 
come up which require a personal explanation to him, 
the coaches have been compelled to take him to a 
remote corner of the field in order to avoid ridicule.
Secondly, it is essential, now that the big games 
of the season are coming on, that the strategic plays 
of the team be kept absolutely secret, without any 
possible chance of their being any publicity given 
through the press. Foot-ball is obviously a game of 
brain as well as brawn, and the coaches feel justi
fied in keeping their hands as dark as possible.
Thirdly, it has been found that in open practice
HOYEUH *.R.S lOM
Superior to Linseed Oil for all kinds of Painting
JAMES B. SiPE & CO.
North Side, Pittsburg, Pa.
GOOD THINGS TO EAT
at the Pure Food Stores ofGEO, K, STEVENSON & CO.
Sixth Avenue Higland and Center 
Down Town East End
%0\0\0%0\0\0\0\0%0%0%0%0\0%0\0\0\0\0 IaEWc P.YPEY HclR k
$ :016\6 Iin the8i ,^nCR A
^ And where you can always get first-class work.
? cr er 92G Wmz,Gq RzIKzN,TIzq ? 
^ CRAIG AND FORBES X
0\0V0\0%0\0\0*0\0%D*0X0V0*0*0\0X*DN
$ W. S. BROWN 
523 Wood St., Pittsburg* tiSHq WiaMEYq .acMEaOW tuuDdq k 
X le .MM hOSDHr . WlfRMEaE MOSE v % le OWE .SD YlMMEY Hh.aEHr %
w ^ w V* A.t.AiTi
1 ARTISTS MATERIAL 
g le E9EY DEHWYORaOlS k
I B. K. ELLIOTT COMPANY
108 Sixth Street (Bessemer BIdg.) Pittsburg. $
FaFFayaFaFFxayaFanaF99nFa9aFaFa9a
aFa9aFa??ayaFaFa?nnqayaFayayayaFayFay
1 PICTURE FRAMING $
2 AMATUER DEVELOPING AND PRINTING j?
ft CUT FLOWERS | 33. "W\ SMITH I
114 Atwood Street, bet. Fifth and Forbes W
Fa9arna:a?nanaaF9Sya:aaxayaFayaFaFaqaaya
The Standard of Excellence
f2DIG2L3UA
Candies and Ice Cream Soda Dainty Lunch 
Tables for Ice CreamFancy BoxesBaskets 
Favors, Etc.
208 SIXTH ST. PITTSBURG, PA.

---------------------------------------------------

4TH 4EA4ER15
the players are interrupted by other persons on the 
side lines who endeavor to confer with them on 
subjects of relative importance. If there is one 
thing that is absolutely essential on the field it is 
that all outside interruptions be obviated since it 
requires the greatest concentration on the part of the 
men to memorize the signals that call for such a 
variety of complicated plays.
In closing I would like to comment upon one thing, 
and that is the excellent spirit and perfect harmony 
that prevails among all the coaches and all the men 
on the squad. The players have been free from all 
signs of jealousy and bickerings with one another 
which is a commendable thing. A man in training 
cannot be blamed for feeling at times a little 
touchy. The members of the squad have shown 
all through the season that they want the best man 
to be on the field and represent the University, and 
they have the confidence in the judgment of the 
coaches regarding the selection to be made, even 
if such selections regulates them to the side lines, 
and places their rivals on the field. All the men on 
the squad are for Cornell first, rather than for them
selves.
With the spirit and with the increasing interest, 
which is being manifested in foot-ball by the under
graduates, as shown by the large size of the Fresh
man squad, I believe sincerely in the future of foot
ball at Cornell. It may not come this year. It may 
not come next year. But by keeping eternally at it 
we are sure to achieve the success which has been 
attained in the other branches of Intersollegiate 
Sport.
ENGINE WIPERS PLAY THE BOTTLE WASHERS.
The first annual game between the Mechanicals 
and Metallurgists, Miners and Chemists was played 
on Tech field Thursday afternoon. The game was 
a good one throughout and afforded much exciting 
and sensational work on both sides. Much credit is 
due the Mechanicals for their team work. The 
special stars for the Mechanicals weie Burgie 
Barrett, Hartman and Barclay. While Barton, 
Young and Taggart starred for the C. 0.-2 side. The 
line-up was as follows:
Mechanicals30. Miners5.
R. E.Stevenson .......................................Shall Wagner
R. T.McCartney .................................................... Light
R. G.Hobbs ..............................................................Seldon
C. Gibson ............................................................ Baker
L. G.Ellis ..............................................................................:................. Robinson
L. T.Wilson ............................................................... Neal
L. E.Henson ........................................................ Taggart
R. HBarrett .....................................1.................. Shultz
L. H.Hartman ......................................................... Barton
Q. B.Burgie ........................................................Mitchell
F. B.Barclay ........................................................... Young
RefereePatterson. Field judgeRamp. Line 
Bright, Hatcher.
Much credit is due both coaches, Naismith and 
Coldren, for their skill displayed. A feature of the 
game was Seldon's long, sure punting.
vne'Best' Store
FORBES & ATWOOD STS.OAKLAND
GREAT HOLIDAY SALE
O USEFUL GIFTS FOR
o MEN, WOMEN AND CHILDREN
 SEE OUR IMMENSE WINDOW DISPLAYS
WM.M.M.M.M.M.M.M.M.M.M.M.M.H.M.M.M.
HAND TURNED
COLLARS
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON 
STEVEXSON' AND FORBES STREETS g
i Bel IPhone 2943 Grant P. & A. Phone 148 Main 3
OXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOX 
OXOVOX^XOXOXOXOXOXOXOVOXOXOXOXOXOXOX 
$ R 
SE*III 1 
1 1 10
*Is  o *0 8 *
1 8Sxffxmaxoxttx&xoxoxaxaxsxaxttxttxcexaxttxo
ESTABLISHED 1867
DESIGNERS OF SHOES
Penn & Frankstown Aves. 
E. E.
Successful Student Gatherings are 
those where Hallers Ice Cream, 
Cakes, and Candies are served.
g c.MMEYUH P.hEY
O 3618 Forbes Avenue Iroquois Block.

---------------------------------------------------

i6THE TARTAN
X O** * ? v 4*  **
BEST EQUIPMENT
Highest Grade 
Work
Prompt Service
Both Phones
B. & B. t
Established 1893
*+$o*4**%04*\04*\C>4,\v,frN04,\C>4,\C>4,\C>4,\0,fr\0,i,%0,f,S0,i>
a fellows Christmas
Kind of things he would buy for himself and 
| wants for other fellowsalso plenty of the 
; right things forwell, for any one he chooses 
 to remember on Christmas.
| Store full of nice things for Christmas, and 
[ courteous salespeople to help in the selection
I should their suggestions be required.
: . BOGGS & BUHL %; v
 C>4*v4*04*v4,v4*0,&04,>4,v4*C>4,v,&0,i04,0^0^ o
0\0\0\0v>\0v:>\vv>v>v>v>v>v>v>v>v>\0\
a. g, mum i silos.
The Largest Manufacturers in the 
World of Official Athletic Supplies
Y FOOT BALL, BASKET BALL g
I KAERCHERS DRUG STOREX
* H. R. SCOTT, Manager0
 Confectionery, Cigars, Stationery, Etc.
HEA VYTNAOI LGEYARI BGUC
GYMNASIUM APPARATUS
Spaldings handsomely illustrated catalogue of all sports contains 
numerous suggestions, mailed free anywhere
.r tr HR.MDOSt b PYlHr
^ 489 AVood Street Pittsburg, Pa. ^
Q\<>\O\O\OSOSO\0SO\0\O\O\O%O\<>SOS0S<>So* * o
0 8 81 i3 *'Jf, o / o0 Cor. Forbes & Craig Sts. Pittsburg, Pa. $* 0
8 PhonesBell, 1456 Schenley; P. & A. 303 Park &0 wX04A0*V>*\0*V>*V>*\0*\0!*\0*%0*\0*\0*
PRESCRIPTIONS A SPECIALTY
xaxo\oxavavoxo*0xo*ov0\ovcAo\ov:>\ov:>\ovovo\ovovxox0.xo\o\o%oxo\ov:Nvvo\o\o*
255 FIFTHAVE*
THE STORE FOR GIFTS
The largest line of novelties of all kinds in 
Pittsburg. Gifts for all occasions. Prizes for all 
gamesBridge, Euchre, 500 and Puzzle parties.
Den Pictures, Pipe Racks, Class Pins, Steins, 
Leather Goods, Cut Glass, Stationery, Jewelry, 
China, Bronze, Sterling Silver, etc. A visit to our 
store will surprise and please you. Scores for 
500, Bridge and Euchre tallies given away.
