Junior Prom
February 21
VOL. XI. NO. 15dhf
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF
ARCHITECTS TO WORK 
FOR $1000 PRIZE
THE SIX CHARTER MEMBERS OF KLANICHT'VARSITY FIVE TAKES OPENER 29 TO 15
JAN. 10, 1917
Traveling Scholarship in 
Architecture to be Awarded 
This Year
Work ot Coach McCulloch 
Was Very Much in Evi
dence in Game With WestDEAN Ci
Through the generosity of a friend, 
-who desires to remain unnamed, the | 
Department of. Architecture has at its ' 
disposal for use in the current school 
year a scholarship of $1000.
It is hoped that this scholarship 
will arouse great interest and tlie 
strongest efforts of the students and 
alumni of the department, and that 
all who might qualify to enter the 
competition will make every effort to 
do so.
It is furthermore hoped that the 
suecess of this competition will be 
so marked as to encourage its estab
lishment on a permanent basis; and 
that every possible competitor, hav
ing in mind the benefit of the depart
ment as well as his own, will do his 
utmost to make it a successr
The conditions governing the award 
are as follows:
The sum of $1000is to be devoted 
to a traveling scholarship in archi
tecture. The winner of the scholar
ship is to be required to follow an 
itinerary made out in consultation 
with'him by the instructors in design 
in the Department of Architecture.
This scholarship is to be-awarded 
on the basis of competitions in de
sign to be open to those graduates of 
the department who have, been award
ed its diploma at or before , the com
mencement exercises of the institute 
in June, 1917, and who have executed 
in the department and submitted for 
judgment during the school year 
1916-17, not less than two regular 
Class A projects and two Class A Es
quisse-Esquisses;. except that the 
competitions shall not be open to 
such a student who has been awarded 
any other traveling scholarship.
It is the intention that the scholar
ship he thus made an inducement to 
students to equip themselves as ade(Continued on Page Three.)
J. M. MILLER
NEW MATERIALS TESTING MACH1NEBEING INSTALLED
Heavy Capacity Machine to 
be in Operation During Sec-1 
ond Semester
H. V. GUENTHER
PROFESSOR TRINKS 
WITH ROOTS CO.
Prof. Trinks, head of the Depart
ment ot Mechanical Engineering, has 
recently accepted a position as con
sulting engineer for the P. II. & F. M. 
Roots Co., manufacturers of gas ex
hausters, pumps and blowers, of Connersville, Ind. Prof. Trinks was at 
Connersville last Saturday. 1-Ie is also 
consulting engineer for the Mesta Ma
chine Company and is actively con
nected with a washing machine com
pany. His numerous duties having 
become too heavy he has engaged Mr. 
Keller, 14 M. E., as an assistant.
The new' 400,000 pound testing ma
chine purchased at a cost of $5,600 
for the materials laboratory is now 
in place. After completing the erec
tion of the upper portions, this im
mense machine will be completely in
stalled.
Steel, wood, concrete and iron 
members may be subjected to 400,000 
pounds compression or tension. The 
breaking load of most substances falls 
far short of. this figure. Because of 
its larger dimensions the machine is 
much more adaptable than any other 
machine in materials laboratory.
The machine is being installed 15y 
the Olsen Company of Philadelphia. 
The supporting columns sink to a 
depth of sixteen feet, and the entire 
base is made of stony masonry, capa
ble of withstanding any shock which 
is likely,to come upon it.
Professor McCullough expects to be 
operating the machine early in the 
second semester.
DESIGN JUNIORSBASKET BALL TEAM
Much spirit and ability was shown 
by the candidates who answered Man
ager Trents call for players for the 
Design Juniors- Basketball team. 
What the men lacked in numbers, 
the architects being on charette last 
week, and thus not being able to 
come out for practice, was made up 
by the fine playing and high enthusi
asm. The team promises to be an 
excellent one this - season, and Manag
er Trent has big hopes of landing his 
team on top of the Inter-School Bas
ketball league.
HONOR CONFERRED ON DEAN CONNELLEY
Dean Connelley was elected presi
dent of the Pennsylvania State 
Branch of the American School Peace 
League, at a meeting of the Pennsyl
vania State Educational Association 
convention held recently at Harris
burg. He is the first president of 
this organization in Pennsylvania.
inghouse
G. E. P. WRIGHTW. B. SKINKLE
UPPER CLASSMEN OF NIGHT ! SCIENCE FORM KLANICHT
OrganizatiorTto^Further the Interest^of the Night Science 
School;
For many years there have been a . They must he prominent in school 
number of upper class men in the I activities and among the leaders in
Night Science department that felt 
that some organization yms necessary 
to further the best interests oL the
their work.
The charter members are G. E. P. 
Wright, '17, a member of the Student
school and to foster fellowship and Activities Board and last years class 
sociability among the students. A president; F. R. Porter, IS, is an as-1 
number of attempts to start some- socijite editor of the "Puppet; J. M. 
thing along these lines have been | Miller, 17, is a member of the Board I 
made, but with no marked success, j of Control anil is serving his third j 
Last year, through the efforts of some j term in this capacity. He has been 
of the more progressive students, a | vice president of tho board for the I
W. A. McMICHAELS
F. R. PORTER
representative was appointed for the past two years. W. B. Skinkle, 17, 
Junior Prom and the upper classmen | has been a hard worker n all the 
turned out for the event in good j class', functions in all his school exsliape. Another innovation introduced I perierice. W. A. McMiohaels, IS, 
last year was the holding of a-Night I served in a highly satisfactory manScienCe dance, prior to the prom, in j.uer on the Prom committee last year, 
the Union. j Perhaps the man best known to the
During the last vacation, F. R. Por- day students is "Doc II. V. Guentliter and G. E. P. Wright conceived the er, 18, tho other charter member of
ideif of the organization of a club 
whose object would be primarily to 
promote good fellowship among night 
students and to honor those men who 
have distinguished themselves in 
their school duties and pleasures. 
Upon the opening of school this fall 
these two solicited the aid of W. B. 
Skinkle is the assistant to Mr. Julian 
W. A. McMichaels and II. V. Guenth
er, 18, in organizing a club.
These men, after careful study of 
conditions, organized a club named 
the "IClanicht, on December 5, 1916.
IClanicht. "Doc Guenther is the 
keeper of tho storeroom in the chem
istry department.
At present Porter is employed by 
tho Department of Public Works, Bu
reau of Tests, In Pittsburgh. Wright 
is 'with the Pittsburgh Plate Glass Co. 
Shinkle is tho assistant to Mr. Julian 
Kennedy. Miller is in tho Engineer
ing department of the Pennsylvania 
railroad, and McMichaels is with tho 
Main Electric Company of Pittsbiygh.
The IClan is well founded and plans 
have been laid for a permanent orThe men eligible for membership ganization, and the founders hope that 
in "IClanicht must have been in the in the not too distant future a club 
Night Science school for three years, house will be procured.
SHOP WORK COMING INTER-ORGANIZATION FOR SCIENCE SOPHS BASKETBALL OPENS
* IMPORTANT. *
* ------ *
4 Important meeting of Tartan ? 
i* Board on Thursday, January 4* 
? 11, in Room 162, Design School. ? 
********************
STUDENTS GIVEN MONEY 
jFORJRT TOUR
At a. general lecture held in the De
sign school theater, Dean Bossange 
announced tentative plans to spend 
one thousand dollars during the 
spring vacation as a prize to the eight 
or ten most accomplished and tal
ented students in the department of 
painting and decorating. These stu
dents are to be conducted on a tour 
through the art galleries in New York, 
Boston and other art centers, in this 
way affording them inspiration and a 
wider range of artistic conception and 
feeling.
The money for these awards comes 
from a friend, of,.this department who 
desires to remain unknown. It is 
hoped that the excellent results 
which are sure to accrue from this 
donation will result in such a system 
of awards at regular intervals, either 
every year or every other year.
Final details of the plan are being 
arranged by the faculty and will be 
announced in the Tartan as soon as 
completed.
Dean Bossange also announced a| 
gift of fifty dollars by Mr. Hornbosteli 
to he used as a prize for a pedestal 
design to be used on a prospective 
statue of Mr. Carnegie, to be placed 
in front of the Design school. Com
plete details for this competition will 
be announced shortly.
Examinations To Be Held a 
Week Early in Order to 
Have Two Weeks of Shop
The Science Sophomore class is to 
have its examinations during the 
week of January 22, one week earlier 
than the rest of the school. During 
the following two weeksthe regular 
examination week and the week be
tween semestersthe Sophomore 
class will be in the shops of the In
dustries school. The courses will be 
distributed among the shops as fol
lows: .
CivilMachine, Forge.
CommercialPattern, Printing.
ElectricalPattern, Electrical.
Chemical, Mechanical, Mining, Met
allurgicalPattern, Foundry.
SanitaryMachine, Plumbing.
THE FACULTY IS TO BE
TAUGHT HOW TO DANCE
Miss Browning of the M. M. C. S. 
Department of Physical Education, 
has very kindly offered to conduct a 
weekly dancing class for members of 
the faculty. No fee will he charged, 
lessons to begin on Tuesday, January 
9, at 4:30 in the M. M. C. S. gymnasi
um. Further information can be se
cured by telephoning Miss Browning.
Sigma Tau Defeats Sigma 
Nu - Iota Sigma Delta De
feated by Delta a Epsilon 
Omega
Wallace Brown, a Tech student of 
the past three years, is now a stu
dent in Armour Institute at Chicago.
Thursday evening the gym was the 
scene of two clashes of note. The 
Inter-club basketball schedule brought 
the Sigma Tau fraternity against Sig
ma Nu, and also the Delta Epsilon 
Omega fraternity against Iota Sigma 
Delta. The result o the Sigma TauSigma Nu game was a victory of 26- 
15 for Sigma Tau. But in passing 
over the event it can be inserted here 
that no all-star material was notice
able on either side unless we mention 
Aul for Sigma Nu and L. Jacobson 
for Sigma Tau. The lineup:
Sigma Tau Sigma Nu
Hermann ............................... Sweeny
Jacobson, L..................................... Aul
Jacobson, G......................... Brockman
Curtis .......................................... Mills
Thomas, Reisingor,
Baker, Kennedy ............... Warrick
GoalsHermann 2, Jackson, L., 5,
I Curtis 2, Baker .'I, Aul 3, Brockman 
j 1, Mills 1.
i FoulsSigma Tau 2 out of 8, Sig
ma Nu, 4 out of 8.
j The Iota Sigma Delta vs. Delta 
Epsilon Omega game was a more 
I closely contested affair. The Delta 
Epsilon Omega bunch, however, suc| ceeded in nosing their opponents 
i (Continued on Page Three.)
DEAN BREED OF M. M.C. SJJACK AGAIN
The M, M. C. S. girls are glad to 
welcome hack their dean. Miss Brood 
has just returned from a threo months 
stay in the Lake Placid, N. Y., region, 
whore sho has boen recuperating from 
an' attack of nervous exhaustion. Sho 
talked to tho girls at tho student as
sembly last Wednesday, tolling thorn 
of her vory Interesting trip and leav
ing a message which will not soon he 
forgot ton by most of them.
ENGINEER SPEAKS TO BUILDINGJjONST. CLUB
Mr. Bela Nagy, chief engineer of 
Dio Hydrated Lime Bureau of tho 
National Lime Manufacturers Associ
ation of Pittsburgh, dolivored an In
teresting lecture to the Building Con
struction club men, last Thursday af.- 
tornoon, on the subject of hydrated 
limej its use and effect on concrete. 
The lecture was illustrated with a 
number of lantern slides.
Friday night the basketball enthusi
asts had an opportunity of witnessing 
the first game of the season set down 
as a victory for Carnegie Tech. A 
close follower of the Westinghouse 
j team for the last three years would 
j say that their teamwork was not as 
good as in former years. But, be as 
; it may, Tech has a team this year' 
which, if last Fridays example is a 
fair specimen of their work, bids fair 
to rival any five Tech has ever 
placed on the gym floor. The Plaid 
tossers started with the first whistle 
and not once was there any danger 
of the East Pittsburgh aggregation 
overcoming their lead. Shooting abil
ity was sorely lacking in tlie West
inghouse group, which was only off
set by the ability of Markloy to gain 
points by shooting fouls.
Green and Abrams Star.
Undoubtedly the star of the even
ing was Captain Green. Time after 
time he dropped the ball through the 
net from a difficult angle. The final 
score is largely duo to his hard and 
fast playing. Abrams, appearing for 
the first time as a Plaid representa
tive, has now won a place of. distinc
tion for himself on tho gym floor. His 
foul shooting at tho beginning of the 
game seemed to put all kinds of pop 
into tho players as woll us the root
ers.
Gretzler, another now man, played 
a game at center which bids fair to 
give him tho position for tho remain
der of the season. Nearly ovory tlmo 
ho got tho ball on tho tip-off." which 
may ho considered ubout half of tho 
battle. Sovorfiil1 times tho play would 
run Gretzler to Abrams to Groon (or 
similarly), and then through tho bas
ket, which seemed to swoop tho big 
Wostlnghouso team off their foot.
"Nig" Finlay found his stride just 
(Continued on Pago Two)
"BRIDGE ENGINEERING TITLE OF PUBLICATION
Work by J. A. L. Waddel 
Highly Recommended by 
Prof. Molt
SOPH HOP IN UNIONFRIDAY NIGHT
The second annual Soph hop, to be 
held Friday evening, January 12, in 
the Union, promises to he Techs 
greatest informal affair of the season. 
The committee, of which I. S. Stark 
is chairman, has spared neither time 
nor pains in their efforts to make this 
years hop an event long to be remem
bered by those in attendance.
The affair is to be strictly a Soph
omore event; that is to say that one 
oil each couple in attendance must he 
a member of the Sophomore class, 
and only one hundred tickets will be 
sold. By. diligent management the 
committee has been able to lower the 
assessment from $1.50 to $1.00 a 
couple. The class is showing much 
'enthusiasm, and bids fair to make the 
second annual hop one of the best 
functions In Techs social life this 
year.
Bowens five-piece orchestra will 
furnish music for tho program of 
twenty-four numbers, and It Is assured 
that the musicians will live up to their 
enviable reputation of being ono of 
Pittsburghs finest dance orchestras.
The president of the other three 
classes have been asked to bo pres
ent, as have also various members of 
the faculty. The patrons and patron
esses will he Dean Breed, Dean and 
Mrs. Bossange, Victor OBrien, Mr. 
and Mrs. Crabtree, Dean and Mrs. 
Leete and Dean and Mrs. Connelly.
A work, of such monumental 
character as is this ono of Dr. Waddolls should appeal, not only to 
those students who expect to special
ize in bridge engineering, but to all 
engineers who are interested in con
struction, and even to architects. 
We quote from tho preface, as fol
lows:
While the work was not prepared 
as a text-book for engineering stu
dents, it is well adapted to supple
ment the standard treatises used in 
the class-room.
It would be found generally in
structive in such matters as the 
history of bridge engineering, eth
ics, materials, loads, intensities, first 
principles of designing, aesthetics, 
economics, and business, all of which 
subjects are treated in a manner 
that is simple and makes easy read
ing.
The more solid chapters would 
be found a great help, giving, a 
they do, a vast fund of practical in
formation such as the designer 
needs.
To the student, the idea that any 
work on bridges could prove easy 
(Continued on Page Four.)
EMANON CHANGES NAME TO DELTA EPSILON OMEGA
During the holidays the Emanon 
fraternity sent out very pretty Christ
mas greetings, which also contained 
the announcement that hereafter It 
will he known as the Delta Epsilon 
Onioga Fraternity.
The Delta Epsilon Omoga Frater
nity was organized In 1914 with elev
en members, and since then it has 
made rapid progress. The present 
membership consists of thirty, togeth
er with six pledges. The fraternity 
occupies the large house at the corner 
of Craig and Forbes streets.
daran
TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA

---------------------------------------------------

Page JunniTHE TARTANJanuary 10, 1917
Jbr (l art an
Published every Wednesday by undergraduates o: the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology.
Entered in the posofQee of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
Yearly, $1.50
SUBSCRIPTION KATES: 
5c the copyCanada, $1.75
 Alfred M. ITEditor-in-Chiet'.. ..........schenley 9067 ^ w Ummel, '17
BusinoBB Manager........p,',,',,',;, Kclieniey 9167 _ Haynes, 19
Managing Editor.........Sehcney 2508
VOL. Editors.
J. Russell Hoxworth, 'J 7 
A. G. Pearce, '18, assistant. 
Athlctic Editor 
J. J. Kennedy, 17 
Assistant Athlctic Editors 
J. I'. Davis, '18 
P. C. Tucker, "19 
Staff Photographer 
M. A. Zeller
Editors
M. D. Meyerson, ;19 
Alex. Sharpve, 18 
Sue Smith, 17 
P. II. Armor, 19 
Associate Editors 
F. C. McConnell 
A. J. Morris 
Ida Richter 
Advertising Manager 
Nelson P. Rice 
Circulation Manager 
It. R. Mumma, 17 
Phone Schenley 907ft
working all day and going to school 
at night, are to he respected and hon
ored for their energy and ambition. 
They deserve our greatest respect. 
And realizing such conditions we 
think It extraordinarily noteworthy 
that these men should have that 
spirit which prompted them to pro
mote such high Ideals.
TALENTED STUDENT PASSES AWAY SUDDENLY
DAND ARRANGESCONCERT PROGRAM
Concert and Dance to be Giv
en on Friday Even'ng, Jan. 
19th
For the 
College
XV IN1 L5C
A REG5STUV
A 35 - 5 Ayr. i?.Wr-i.PEN n Way; 
Phone 9634 Grant
A Good 
Place to F a i
The School of Applied Design and 
especially the Department of Painting 
and Decorating, are greatly saddened 
at the news of the death of one of 
their most talented students, Pierre 
W. Paulin.
He was In bed only four days, hav
ing contracted a severe irse of pneu
monia. He died at his home at 3507 
Campus street, on December 30.
Mr. Paulin was one of the most tal
ented students In his. department, 
having done excellent work in Com
mercial art and In stained glass.
'PARTAN OFFICE.
Hours4-5 P. M., School Days.
.Room 162, Design
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for policy of this paper; the Managing 
Editor for. the make-up.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the signature to be withheld if desired.
All business communications should be sent to the Business Manager. 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be re
ported to the Business Manager at once.
All news Items must be in the student postoifice, 
Monday noon.
Central Building, by 
**28
A SPRING FESTIVAL
Any serious-minded individual, upon entering an institution oi! 
learning to secure a college education which is to fit him for future 
life, naturally tries to make as careful an investigation as possible 
concerning the nature of the institution, its courses and his relation 
1o both as is possible. At the same time the modern respected col
lege or university endeavors to secure only such prospective students 
as will suit its particular requirements, aims and standards. These 
facts are conceded by both student and faculty, and yet it is the ex
life, naturally tries to make as careful an investigation con
cerning the nature of the institution, its courses and his relation 
cerning the other.
In order to aid the high school or preparatory student to become 
acquainted with Carnegie Tech a plan for a Spring Week-End Fes
tival, to be held about the first of May of each year, has been sug
gested. Invitations to attend this festival might be sent out to vari
On the evening of January 19, the j j| 
Carnegie Tech band will hold its con- i
The concert will start at 8:15 and will 
last about an hour and a quarter, the 
rest of the evening being taken up 
by the dance. The band, under Di
rector Sullivan, has been working 
very hard all fall on the musical pro
gram to be given, and it will be one. 
well worth hearing. The dance music! 
will be in charge of C. L. Boyle, '13, | 
who was for two years manager of. 
the Tech band.
The concert program is as follows: 
1. March, Iron King, St. Clair. 2. 
Overture, "Golden Wand, Laurendeau. 3. Novelette, Apple Blos
soms, Engleman. 4. Waltz, "Wed
ding of the Winds, Hall. 5. Caprice, 
"Whistler and His Dog, Pryor. 6. 
Tone Poem, Humoresque, Dvorak. 
7. Medley Selection, "Sounds from 
the Sunny South, Isenman. 8. 
March, "My Maryland, Panella.
The admission to the concert and 
dance is one dollar a couple. For the 
benefit of those who might care to go 
to the concert, but not for the dance, 
an admission of thirty-five cents each 
will be charged. Tickets may be pro
cured from any of the band members.
s TI-IE NATIONAL RESTAURANT f
BETWEEN FIFTH AND FORBES ON ATWOOD 
Special 35 cent Lunch11:30-2:30 
"The Home of Home Cooking
/2M3J3/SM3M5MM3M2M3MSM3M3/3M3M3M2MSJ2M3MSM3M3Moi/3M3MSMS/3ISi3MIrPl
THE BLOSSOM 
RESTAURANT
(The Original)
3719 FORBES STREET
Here Youll Find the Com
bination That Pleases 
Cuisine, Service and Tempt
ing Dishes
uates of any college of good standing. ! 
In return for the stipend, the holder 
must render a limited number of i 
hours service in classroom or labora-1 
tory and must make at stated inter-1 
vals to the dean of the school to 
which he or she is appointed, reports 
of progress in such investigation or 
research as will lead to an advanced 
degree in this or another institution.
CHURCHES
East End Christian Church
SOUTH HIGHLAND AND ALDER
The Live Church
All young men invited to A. R. 
Hamilton's Class. All young women 
to H. C. Youngs Class.
Take Shady or Highland Park cars.
PIERRE W. PAULIN
I-Ie was the holder of the Russell 
Hewlett Memorial Fellowship last 
year. This fellowship is awarded 
every two years and is open to crafts
men of considerable maturity and ex
perience, who have not enjoyed the 
advantages of artistic education. His 
work had attracted .considerable at
tention at the time of the awarding 
of this fellowship, and he was selected 
without much hesitation, 
lie was also awarded a Special prize
ous high schools and preparatory schools through a committee or by ICour yoars ago by the Associated Artstudents at Tech to personal friends. The, duration of this festival 
would be from hYiday afternoon until Sunday. The co-operation of 
the fraternities, clubs and dormitories might be secured to provide 
rooming accommodations for some of I lie visitors. The entertain
ment could consist of a program such as the following: (1) An inlerscholastic track meel and dual varsity track meet, or possibly a 
baseball game. (2) A comic circus. (8) A more serious pageant. 
(*l) Thorough inspection of buildings and courses conducted by ap
pointed guides, (5) A dance or a reception.
A festival such as this, properly conducted, would be a great 
thing for both Tech and the prospeclive student.
Carnegie Tech is as yet practically a new Rchool; due to this 
lad. and its unique plan, il is not yet generally understood, although 
its merits have been recognized by authoritive individuals and jnstiIulions. The festival would afford 1 he prospective student the same 
opportunity to became acquainted with the institution that is given 
0lily to the Pittsburgh public, on Carnegie Day. There are doubtless 
many students at Tech who would welcome an occasion such as this, 
to which they might; invite younger high school friends to come to 
visit them and the school. The prospective student would be given a 
better idea of the work done here, inasmuch as he could see samples 
of the work and personally talk to students and faculty concerning 
details in the course in which he might be interested.
Other advantages can be named in favor of this festival beyond 
that of the curriculum standpoint. The prospective student would
ists of Pittsburgh for distinctive post
er work. 1-Ie was recognized by au
thorities as one of (he best artists in 
stained glass in this vicinity, being 
particularly accomplished in Italian 
Renaissance glass. At the time of 
his illness he was occupied in design
ing a stained glass motif for Dean 
Possange.
Mr. Paulin was thirty-five years of 
age and is survived by a wife and 
three small children.
WESTINGHOUSE RESERVES 
SUFFERS DEFEAT BY PLEBES
Goth Stars For the Plebes
As a preliminary bout to the big 
game, the Westinghouso reserves met 
the plaid freshmen. Much to their 
disappointment they went back to 
East Pittsburgh the 
point. The score stood
Y. M. C. A. TO DESUME 
MORNING MEETINGS
The morning meetings of the Y. M. 
C. A. will be resumed in room 104, 
of the Industries school, oh Thursday, 
January, 11. The time is at 8:10 a. 
m., just before classes commence.
These meetings cover a short pray
er and a discussion of. the Bible. 
Their object is, primarily, to get the 
fellow's in the right mental attitude 
for their class work, and to help them j 
to lead a good, cleaii and vfliolesoine 
day.
One fellowship, open to men only, is j to Alder street, 
assigned to each of. the schools of Ag-1 R Minister, ,, _ . . T .| , . , (University of Chicago.)riculture, Engineering, Liberal Arts,!------------------------------------------------------
Mining and Natural Science. One fel-! Third United
lowship, open to women only, is assigned to the Department of Home I Prpckv;erjan flllirrllEconomics. Selection is made by the' 1 I voUj LCI idll
faculty of each school prior to May , Shady and Northumberland Avenue.
first each year. For application blank Graded . Sunday School 9:45 A. M 
write to the school in which you are 
most interested, addressing the letter to the dean of the School of. 
....................State College, Pa.
TECH ARCHITECTURAL CLUB
HAS FIRST MEETING
Preaching Services. 11:00 A.M. and 8:00 P. M.
Young Peoples Service, 7:00 P. M. 
Brief and Warm-Hearted Message 
A cordial welcome to all.
ROBERT B. MILLER. D.D., 
Pastor
DESIGN GIRLS AWARD 
ANNUAL FELLOWSHIP
The five girls of the Design school 
calling themselves The Gams, an
nounced last Friday morning through 
Dean Bossange, the awarding of a 
fellowship amounting to,sixty dollars.
The winner of this fellowship is 
Thomas Ward Hunter of the Painting 
and Decorating department. In con
sidering the disposal of the fellowship 
the talent, ability and need of the 
student was considered. All Design 
school students were eligible, and 
Mr. Hunter was considered through 
his ability and talents as particularly 
deserving.
Phe donors of the fellowship are 
greatly pleased in their bestowal since 
the excellence of the claims inducing 
them lo select Mr. Hunter are indicaThe Tech Architectural Club of the 
Design school held the first meeting 
of the year, last Monday afternoon. 
The most important business trans
acted was the election of officers. 
The officers-elect are: President, H.
Bremmer; vice president, "Jake Ad
ams; secretary, G. Gaus; treasurer, 
A. B. Waterson.
A. N. Kierger, Civil 15, is now em
ployed in Pittsburgh, coming here the 
first of the year from Sparrows 
Point, Md., where he was previously 
employed.
The Church of 
The Ascension
Ellsworth Avenue and Neville Street. 
DR. WYATT BROWN, Rector. 
Sunday Services, 11:00 A. M. and 
Splendid music, short7:45 P. M. 
sermons.
VARSITY FIVE TAKES
OPENER 20 TO 15
(Continued from Page One) 
before the close of the first half with 
a long shot from mid-floor and fol
lowed it up with another sure shot 
from the center of a much congested | 
bunch of. players. Just as the whistle 
blew for the half he dropped in an
other for good measure.
Levy, also a newcomer, while not 
starring, played an exceptionally 
good, fast and heady brand of basket
ball which entitles him to a great 
deal of credit in rounding, out the
ST. PAULS CATHEDRAL,
Fifth Avenue and Craig Street.
Masses: 6 .-30, 8:00, 9 :00, 10:00 
and 11:00 a. m. on Sundays and 
j Holy Days.
Vespers on Sundays at 7 :30 p. 
m. Parish Hall and Gymnasium, 
Craig street.
live of greater stimulation of good j Plaid live. Foxen; Slater, Craig and 
work in the various departments in , Williams were substituted during
the game and all show that Tech hasthe future.
The money is raised through scliollosers by one I arship dances and other affairs, which 
22 to 21 when j have grown quite popular among the 
the final whistle blew, leaving the j students.
Tech freshmen with a clean slate as j The "C
I a starter. The contest was filled
j with pep, and some of the men who
receive some idea of college life and learn to appreciate the Value of i ;m-oared on the freshman team 'last
  i tt i i ,4c. Friday night may be seen on the'var-the associations made at college. lie has a chance to sec lech and glty flve Before lhe fg ^ j
its students, and he can then better judge for himself whether or To Goth goes the honors for in(li.
not this is the school lie wishes to attend. Schools and institutions, j viduai scoring, making 12 of the 22
Gams number Misses Adelia 
Forncrbok, Alice Craig,. Miriam 
Smith, Mildred Floyd and Edna 
Blanche Forde. -
like individuals, have personality, character and qualities, which 
stamp them as being different from other schools. And so the high 
school student may either feel that Carnegie is the sort of an atmos
phere in which he can progress, or he may decide different. In any 
case both lie and the institution have been rendered a service in that 
a misfit may have been avoided.
The affair in itself would be a good thing for Tech inasmuch as 
jt would supply another school function, in which all the four schools 
working harmoniously together, would find a bond of common in
terest drawing them all together and working toward that ideal 
A United Tech!
The merits of the above plan and tlTe arguments in its favor 
cannot be doubted. It lias been indorsed by Dr. Esqucrre, Graduate 
Manager Gearhart and Mr. IT. J. McCorklc, secretary of the alumni 
association and head of the Employment Bureau. It is to be hoped 
1hat such a Spring Festival may become one of the important 
days on the Carnegie calendar.
KLANICHT
With this issue announcement has been made of the formation of 
a night, science organization,* honorary in nature, to consist of men 
who have been in the night science school for three years, which or
ganization is to be known as Ivlanielit,  meaning night clan. The 
object of this club being primarily To promote good fellowship 
among night students and to honor those men who have distinguished 
themselves in their night school duties and activities.
We wish to extend our heartiest congratulations to these men 
who have succeeded in their endeavor to put some of that famous 
Tech spirit into the activities of the night school. The night men,
points.
The lack of. a good foul shooter 011 
either team was very noticeable, 
j well as the number of fouls made, 
j Considering the time these men have 
played together their showing is very 
creditable and shows ability and 
coaching. The lineup:
Tech P. 22 West. R. 21
Goth ........................................ Dalzell
Slonacker, Herman
Gens ..................................... Phefer
Bacon, Wire ..........................Culhane
Koefead ............................. Fenenson
Eminerick ........................... Steiphel
GoalsGoth (5, Bacon 2, Wire 1, 
Dalzell 2, Phefer 1, Culhane 1, Fenen
son 2, Steiphel 1.
FoulsSlonacker 1 out of 4, Her
man 1 out of 1, Dalzell 2 out of .6, 
Phefer 0 out of 3, Fenenson 5 out of 
7.
PLEBE BASKETBALL 
SCHEDULE FOB 1917
plenty of good reserve material on 
the bench.
So far we have said nothing of how 
these men came to play so well to
gether. The answer is Coach MeCulloch. To him alone goes all the 
credit of building up a team which is 
worthy of representing Carnegie 
Tech. With practically all new ma
terial he has rounded a squad into
3ISMISM3MSMinJS/3MSJSMSMSMSMcU3Mg.
Shadyside Presbyterian | 
Church
AMBERSON, Near Fifth. g 
DR. HUGH THOMSON KERR | 
(The Nearest Church) 
MORNING AND EVENING 0 
WORSHIP, 11 A. M., 8 P. M. a 
AT 9:45 OCLOCK 
Young Mens Bible Class 3 
Mr. Harry Calvert 
Attorney-at-Law 
Mens Bible Class ^
Prof. William R. Farmer g 
Western Theological Seminary 
i Margaret Morrison Class E 
Mrs. Frederick B. Shipp j| 
Womens Bible Class @
Mr. George M. Kirk
Breakfast
NEW HOME FOR
COMMONS CLUB
I he Carnegie Chapter of Commons 
Clubs, formerly located at 3604 Vic
toria street, has moved to a much 
more suitable abode at 1046 Murrayhill avenue. The new home of the 
club is one to be proud of and is en
tirely appropriate for a young and 
thriving institution such as the Com
mons club.
January 20Schenley High School 
Home.
January 23Pitt FreshmenAway. 
January 27Casino TechAway. 
February 3Coraopolis High
Home.
February-10Westinghouse Reserve 
Away.
February 16Wellsburg Scholastics 
Away.
February 17Steubenville Y. M. C. 
A.Away.
February 24Lawrenceville* Y. M. 
C. A.Away.
March 3Casino TechHome. 
March 6Lawrenceville Y. M. C. A. 
Home.
March 10Pitt FreshmenHome.
NOTICE OF PENN STATE 
TRAVELING FELLOWSHIPS
Mr. D. R. Taft of the registrars of
fice, has received notice of. six teach
ing fellowships offered annually by. 
Penn. State. The details for obtain-1 
ing these fellowships are given below: 
As preparation for college teaching, 
six fellowships of the value of six 
hundred dollars ($600) each are of
fered annually by the Pennsylvania 
State college to men and women gradSunday, 8:15-9:30.
The best one since you left home* 
. at the Oakland M. E. Church, near 
shape which has a splendid chance j Forbes Field, 10c. Come early and 
of capturing honors before the sea- j meet a live bunch of. fellows. After 
son is over. All through the game the | the eating contest, at 9:45, the Brothmen showed clever coaching in team . erhood Class listens to A Mans Re
work instead of individual starring, > ligion Taught in a Manly Way. 
which is also essential but often det-1------------------------------------------------------
rimental to a team. The lineup:
Tech 29 Westinghouse 15
Green, Foxen . ............Vanoman, Lulirj
Abrams, Slater...................... Markley I
Gretzler, Craig ............... Waterhouse!
Finlay ............................................ Graf
Levy, Williams ............... Luhr, Luck (
Field goalsGreen 6, Linlay 3, Levy j 
2, Waterhouse 2, Markley 1, Luhr 1. |
FoulsAbrams, 7 out of 11, Finlay 
0 out of. 1, Markley 7 out of 13.
^ 5T
East Liberty 
Y. M. C. A.
122 WHITFIELD STREET 
Come in and see what we have 
to offer.
Start the New Year Right
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
WANTEDOne Hundred more Tech men and girls. to join the 
Bible Class at the First Baptist Church of Pittsburgh. This class is 
growing and aims to be the largest exclusively Tech Class in the city. 
Professor J. Anderson Fitzgerald, of the Science School, is the in
structor.
OFFICERS
R. D. Anderson. A. I., IS, President.
Lester M. Collins, A. S., 'IS, Treasurer.
O. D. Kingsbury, A. I., 17, Chairman Membership Committee. 
Elizabeth Dearing, M. M. C. S., '17, Secretary.
Lucile Wakefield. M. M. C. S.. IS, Chairman Social Committee.
THE CHURCH OF THE ILLUMINATED CROSS
Two Blocks North from Carnegie Music Hall. 
Bellefield Avenue and Bayard Street.

---------------------------------------------------

January 10, 1917THE TARTANPage Three
6 10 O P E N N A V  N  JE
Exposition, as well us that held at 
the Albright Gallery under the auspi-. 
ces of the National Sculpture Society.
American sculpture, which began 
with portrait busts, with bombastic 
equestrian statues of military heroes, 
with statesmen wearing the toga and 
laurel wreath of the Roman senators, 
has gradually thrown off the obsession 
of what might be called the iron ago 
in sculpture. Lawns are no longer 
strewn with iron stags nor Newfound
land dogs on pedestals, though public 
squares still contain a cast iron effigy 
of the soldier boy of the civil war 
period. Unfortunately he is made of 
very durable material.
The last ten years, however, has 
seen a marked growth of American 
sculpture. Its architectonic charac
ter, and its adaption to the decoration 
of buildings, has been greatly devel
oped. In the form of fountains and 
garden figures it is adding.a distinct 
element of beauty to the estates of the 
wealthy American, and its latest 
phase is perhaps the small bronze 
used for decoration of interiors. Our 
medals and public monuments are no 
longer a disgrace to the nation, and 
we are gradually obtaining from the 
output of the mint, coins in which 
surface relief and fine pattern are con
sidered.
The present exhibition of contem
porary American sculpture is one of 
the most carefully chosen that has 
yet been made in America,. Among 
the exhibitors are names known 
throughout the world of art, and their 
works include the widest expression 
of. the plastic art of modern times. 
The exhibition shows a new develop
ment in monumental sculpture; in a 
modern expression of the archaic; in 
small bronzes, fountain figures, por
traits, panels, garden sculpture and 
its placing; the wonderful variety in 
subject and technique which is the 
triumphant heritage of the American 
sculptor.
TRY THE MOST BEAUTIFUL RESTAURANT IN OAKLAND
OAKLAND ANNEX
EXCELLENT SERVICEThey Went to Give a Con
cert. However, and Not to 
Serve Time
REASONABLE PRICES
NEW MANAGEMENT 
3708 FORBES STREETMARKTRADE
These are two of the 
24 popular shapes in 
which you can get the
Stratford
75c and up
W DC Hand Made
$1.00 and up
Each a fine pipe, 
with sterling silver ring 
and vulcanite bit. 
Leading dealers in 
town carry a fuU as
sortment. Seiect your 
favorite style.
WM. DEMUTH & CO.
New York
On Sunday afternoon, January 7, 
the C. I. T. band gave a concert at 
the Western Penitentiary on the 
North Side for the benefit of the con
victs imprisoned there. On the first 
Sunday of each month an hour is 
given over to a musical program, the 
entertainment being furnished by 
various musical organizations of the 
city. After the program was over, 
Rev. Miller, the chaplain of the insti
tution, gave the members of. the band 
a very interesting talk about the pen
itentiary and the convicts.
m FOR HIRE,
[|] Also Complete Stock of Tuxedos, Cutaways. Prince Alberts, 
s etc. Evening Wear Accessories.
WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT COMPANY
FJ 6001-2-3 Jenkins Arcade
Ej Both Phones. Night Bell
Genuine
French
Briar
The Young Man's Great Opportunity |j
for success today is salesmanship. Life In- 11
surance selling offers unlimited opportunities [|
I ( \ for success- Policies from $1,000 to $100,000. ( I I Write us about an agency. H
\t\ PRANK C. PIERSON, Manager
Western Penna. Ordinary Dept.
Tenth Floor Diamond Bank Building 1
^ PITTSBURGH, PA.Carnegie Institute of TechnologyJohn W. Beatty, the director of the 
Department of Fine Arts of the Car
negie Institute, announces an exhibi
tion of etchings by Anders Zorn, to be 
opened on January 6th and to con
tinue until Monday, Febuary 5th.
The man. Anders Zorn, is a modern 
Swede, born in Dalecarlia of peasant 
parents, and his art embodies those 
very qualities of directness and sin
cerity which characterize those who 
live close to nature; who love nature 
and who try to interpret nature.
in paint, or in black and white, with 
the brush or with the needle, Anders 
Zorn expresses a sturdy naturalism, 
a vivid reality, and a very powerful 
color sensethe latter even in his 
etchings. For an etching is an im
pression. always, a stenographic no
tation of form and color written di
rectly upon copper. On the plate Is 
set down for all time the few essen
tial lines that interpret the body and 
soul of nature, and according to the 
quality of those lines is the power of 
the etcher rated.
Although Zorn is best known as a 
painter, an opportunity to see and 
study another expression of. his keen 
observation of life and its brilliant 
transcription in the etchers medium 
is welcome.
THE Carnegie Institute of Technology consists of four separate 
schools, each with its own faculty, buildings and students. 
The courses of instruction offered are:
School of Applied ScienceOffers courses in chemical, civil, 
commercial, electrical, mechanical, metallurgical, mining, and 
sanitary engineering, leading to the degree of Bachelor of 
Science. Also courses in science in preparation for teaching or 
for research.
School of Applied DesignOffers courses in architecture, 
painting, decoration, illustration, music, sculpture and dramatic 
arts, open to men and women, leading to the degree o Bachelor 
of Arts.
School of Applied IndustriesOffers industrial courses in 
machine construction, building construction, general equipment 
and installation, and printing. Also a course for training indus
trial teachers, leading to the degree of Bachelor of Science in 
Industrial Education. Short coursos of eight, months are offered 
in machine shop, pattern making, mechanical drawing, electric 
wiring, plumbing, foundry, forging and bricklaying for more ma
ture applicants who have had some experience in these trades.
Margaret Morrison Carnegie SchoolFor women. Offers a 
regular day course of general training, with particular emphasis 
on home-making, followed by specialized training in household 
economics, secretarial economics, costume economics, home arts 
and crafts, general science, or social work, loading to the degree 
of Bachelor of Science. Also courses for the training of teachers 
in the above subjects.
Night CoursesThe four schools offer night, courses in prac
tically all of the above subjocts to prvido educational opportu
nities for those who are at. work during tho day.
Fees- Tho lotal fees for a day course are $48.00 a yoar for 
residents of Pittsburgh and $58.00 for non-rosiilents. Tho total 
1oes for night courses are $16.00 for residents and $18.00 for non
residents. -  --------------- ------
For further Information address Registrar, Carnegie Institute 
of Technology, Pittsburgh
AN1SE
lO* PENCIL
GET YOUR HAIR CUT 
--------at the--------
Nearest to TechNO MATTER WHAT COUKSfc 
YOURE TAKING YOU NEED 
THIS FAMOUS PENCIL!
. Because of the superla& tive quality of materialMand workmanship, VENUS 
is . admittedly the finest 
pencil it is possible to 
make.
If. you like a thick soft 
lead that marks so that 
Iral you can read the writing 
0,9 half way across the room, 
choose the soft degrees 6B5B 
4B.
Fort short-hand notes or easy 
writing 3B2BB (medium soft) 
are, popular.
For sketching, general writ
ing purposes, etc. HBFH irrn 
2H (medium) will prove 
desirable. L-'J
For drafting, a medium f T, j 
hard pencil gives the best resuits and youll like Itfn
3H4H5T.I6H.
For very thin, narrow lines 
for extremely accurate graphical 
charts, maps, details, etc., 7I-I8H 
9H are available, 
rnrr Look for the distinctive 
fllLLwater mark finish on each of 
the 17 black degrees and hard 
and medium copying. Your 
professors will confirm these 
statements as to the merits 
of VENUS pencils.
For sale at the college 
book store.
American Lead Pencil Co. 
215 Fifth Ave., Dept. G, N. Y.
Note: Send us
your name and ad(lress an(l we shall be pleased to have 
se^it
drawing
pencils, VENUS copying pencil and 
VENUS Eraser FREE!
COR. CRAIG AND FORBES 
FRED FARGEL, Proprietor
MODERN DANCES
Classes and Private
R. E. JAQUES
a FORBES and CRAIG STREETS(Continued From Page One.) 
out of the game by a 14-12 victory. 
The lineup:
PITTSBURGH
Buttersch .........F................ Bergwall
Paulus ...............F................ Hornung
Rutter ............C.............. Spurgeon
Yeattes ..............G................. McNary
Bowers ..............G...................... Reed
GoalsButtersch 1, Paulus 2, Rut
ter 2, Spurgeon 3, Bcrgwall 1, Hor
nung 1, Reed 1.
Fouls -Delta Epsilon Omega, 2 out 
of 8; Iota Sigma Delta, 2 out of 6.
A Typewriter Exceptional
For Collegians 
Change your type in an instant from one 
tyle to anotheror any language.
Class for Beginners is being organized, composed of students only. hjj 
To meet each Monday at 8:00 P. M., commencing next Monday, Janu- }$ 
nry 15, at Jaques Dancing Academy, Craig and Forbes Streets.
Tuition10 lessons, $3.00 
$1.00 deposit on ticket required first night.
THE
VSULTiFLEX
HAMMOND
Two sets of type in cach machine.
Just Turn Ihe Knob Pronto one or (lie other 
Simple-CompactPortubio 
Beautiful workbeyond compare. 
If not inclined to a new machine, 
inquire for our Factory Rebuilts.
We Rent Machines of high quality. 
Patrons: President Woodrow Wilson 
Cardinal Merry del Val 
Dr. Alexander Graham Bell 
Chancellor Rev. B. G. Trant 
Bishop John G. Murray 
William Dean Howells 
also all Colleges and Universities 
Our special terms to collegians will 
interest you. Catalog for the asking.
Hammond Typewriter Co.
545 Eust 69th Street 
New York Ci y. N. Y.
[mlracfes
TUB HOUnC OF SRRVICQ
ALL VICTOR RECORDS, EVERY DAY
And the Victrola to Play Them on
CLEANERS AND DYERS 
Perfect Work in Ladles', Children* 
and Household Work. 
Oriental Rugs and Draperies p 
Specialty
401 EAST END TRUST BUILDING 
PITTSBURGH 
Phones: Office 449 Hiland 
Works 4912 Hiland.
CMOW
ove .
SIX FIRST CLASS BARBERS 
No Waiting
John CiceroMellon
National
Bank
PITTSBURGH 
409-413 Fifth Avenue 
510-514 Srrdthfield Street 
406-410 Oliver Avenue
3617 FORBES STREET 
Largest and Most Up-To-Date 
Barber Shop in Oakland.
Damonstrations 
at any timeNow that another school year has 
begun, why not make It i point tc 
care for your personal appearance and 
have your suits pressed regularly' 
We will call for your suit, press ant 
return it, all on the same day. Phor.t 
us and arrange the details. Schenlej 
875.
J E. T. Shuman
3911 FORBES STREET
CAPITAL, SURPLUS AND 
PROFITS, $9,500,00635-37 Smiihfield SPITTSBURGHTOTAL RESOURCES OVER [ 
$95,000,000 I
TTI THE ONLY AMERICAN SHOE |j
B SHOP IN OAKLAND
II E[lj Best Leather Used. dEWork Guaranteed.F ountainPens
of Best Makes. Pens Repaired 
Fraternity Jewelry and Favors 
SINGER PEN AND GIFT SHOP 
JENKINS ARCADE
The director of living graduates of 
Yale university, recently issued, lists 
a total of> 19,316 living holders of 
Yale degrees. The total number of 
graduates to whom Yale has awarded 
degrees is 30,164.

---------------------------------------------------

te worlds most
.'UlfYr&ZZMa
Ih
*#'i
7rEaaaL
FIFTEENorPJmFe
fr The^i||| 
Best Ad for^ 
MURAD 
is a MURAD
Qud^^imunAsM-. 
Gmthcm nui/LOcL' ujhowvu 25Orni
; Makers of the Highest
} IClhCl IjACjJ Grade Turkish and 
-^'cca3Wcm-~^' gyptian. Cigarettes 
in the WorldA Corporation
Forbes Quality 
Shop
FORBES and BOUQUET 8T3. 
LUNCH AND 80DA
Page FourTHE TARTANJanuary 10, 1917
WHY
NOT
send these
|-aI most delicious
1I Sweet - tooth 
Tempters to 
your Friend or 
the Folks at 
home?
THEY EXPECT IT $] 
AT CHRISTMAS j| 
TODAY IT'S A HIT Im
i Shhad
JrmJit COLLARS
are curve cut Co fit the 
shoulders perfectly 'g
Cluctt, peabody CCorlnc.Ovlikcrs
FORMER WARDEN OF SING 
SINfi WILL ADDRESS ECONOMIC SOCIETY
Thomas Mott Osborne Wi 1 
Spoak to Faculty and stu
dents in Room 104, Indus
trii s, on Wednesday, Jan. 
10, at 3:30 P. M.
of the American School Peace League 
In Harrisburg on December 28, at 
which he was elected president of the 
branch.
Thomas Mott Osborne, probably 
the most noted man in the world of 
prison reform, will speak to Tech fac
ulty and* students in room 104 Ap
plied Industries, on Wednesday, Jan
uary 10, at 1:80 p. m. He will speak 
under the auspices of the C. I. T. 
Economic Society,
2/i5J3J3MSfi3Mi3JSSiM0c!JclMc!Mi 
FOR EATS COME TO US
We want to furnish the Baked 
Goodo for your Frnt. May wo7
THE HALLER BAKERY
In the Center of the
IROQUOIS BLOCK, OAKLAND |
OJi?/i5/i9/S/ni/i5iS/i5/Si i*i/c3n3fi3/iil/tDfiP r3iiIIiI3/ui/ni/Si3i
WEBER EXPRESS AND 
STORAGE COMPANY 
Bell Phono 239 Sohenley. 
Moving, Packing and Storing 
of Furnlturo and Pianos. Gen
eral Hauling Baggage to and 
from Dopotu.
4610-18-20 HENRY STREET 
PITTSBURGH
CALENDAR DATES CHANCED
The administration announces a 
change in semester dates as follows: 
The first semester will end February 
second (2) instead of January twen
ty-six (20.) The second semester 
will begin February twelve (12) in
stead of February live (5). Com
mencement will be .June vel instead 
of June 8.
Science Seniors who missed Sep
tember camp requirements because 
of the paralysis epidemic will be giv
en substitute work about the campus 
provided their schedules permit. If 
they have not sufficient ' time the 
work will be required. For oilier 
students who were obliged to omit 
their camp surveying for the same 
reason, the faculty has not completed 
plans.
BRIDGI; ENGINEERING
TITLE OF PUBLICATION
Good Clothes 
Cheaper
Clothiers, Tailors, 
Hatters, Furnishers
504-506 Federal Street, 
North Sido
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON
Shoes and Hosiery Penn and Frankstown 
Footprints Lead to Detection
I . The standing of a man ia as often
, [I aa not told by his footwearIf ha 1
\\il careless of that, hes apt to be neglh
1 1 l| [ | I| gent of more important things. If
/ you wl11 buy your shoes here> yM(  25 / may ke certa'n f looking all rlghtj) feeling all right__and impressing otln
era with the fact that you are "all
:L /-----\ rlSht- ur Shoes are built by soma
t*ie most representative Shoe Mai* 
ufacturers in the world.
$3.50 to $10.00 the Pair Special Mens Dept.
THOMAS MOTT OSBORNE
Although mayor of Auburn, N. Y., 
for two years, Mr. Osborne really 
first became publicly known when 
elected the chairman of the National 
Commission on Prison Labor, and 
when appointed chairman of the New 
York Commission on Prison Reform. 
His real chance did not come, how
ever, until December, 1914, when he 
was appointed warden of Sing Sing by 
Governor Whitman, where Mr. Os
borne at once started to replace the 
old system of retaliation and brutal
ity with the now and I he then "revo
lutionary" method of real humane 
treatment of societys unfortunates. 
For political reasons an attempt was 
made to remove Mr. Osborne from 
office In 1915, but it utterly failed, he 
being exonerated of all charges 
brought, against him. In October, 
1010, the political ring finally got. in 
the way of Mr. .Osbornes application 
of truly humanitarian principles to 
prison management, and he Immedi
ately resigned as warden.
He Is recognized as the greatest 
authority on prison reform in this 
country, partly because of his won
derful achievements at Sing Sing and 
partly for having lived In 1913 the 
life of a prisoner for several weeks 
unknown to the guards and to the 
warden.
On Wednesday, January 10, at 3:30 
p. m In 104 Applied Industries, Mr, 
Osborne will* loll his own story of 
prison reform.
FACULTY MEMBERS ATTEND 
MEETINGS DURING HOLIDAYS
iSMSM3/3MSi3MSMSl!la!MSn?I(Qfn!i0i3r^?]S/'i
FLOWERS for all OCCASIONS 
RANDOLPH 8 McCLEMENTS |
FLORAL EXPERTS 
6936 PENN AVENUE 
Near Highland Avenue j|
^caran3|gj3i^|taj^i^^^fipni/^li5fp.i0f3jii!/e!jii5
ILiberty Cleaning 
and Pressing Co.
301 80UTH CRAIG STREET 
Corner of Wlnthrop Street 
Bell Phone Schenley 309 
GOODS CALLED FOR AND 
DELIVERED
E3JSMS1SM3M3MSMSMS3M3MSMSMS3J
At the twenty-fifth annual meeting 
of. the American Psychological Asso
ciation in New York, Deceihber 27-30, 
the following papers were read by 
members of the Institute faculty: 
"The Dissected-Story Test," by Dr. 
Gordon; "Experiments in Vocational 
Elections," by Dr. Scott; "The Eleva
tion of a Method of Finely Graduated 
Estimates of Abilities," by Dr. Miner; 
The Learning Curve Equation,! by 
Mr. Thurstone, and "The Mentality 
Test of College Students, by Dr. 
Bingham. Miss Free was also in at
tendance. Dr. Bingham was elected 
a member of the Council of the 
American Psychological Association, 
and secretary of the Council of the 
American Association for the Ad
vancement of Science, which is to 
hold its next meeting in Pittsburgh.
Professor Blakey, Mr. J. A. Fitzger
ald and Mr. G. H. Barnes attended 
the meetings of the American Eco
nomic Association and the American 
Statistical Association, which met in 
Columbus, Ohio, the woolt of Decem
ber 25. Professor How or and Drs. 
Esquerre and Grondahl attended the 
mootings of. the American Association 
for the Advancement, of Science In 
Now York during tlie holidays, Dr. 
Grondahl giving a paper on "Experi
mental Evidence for the Parson Mag
neton" before a joint session of the 
American Physical Society and Soction 11. of the A. A. A. S. Dr. Es
querre also attended the New York 
meetings of the Intercollegiate Ath
letic Association; Miss Marion 
Holmes went to the Chicago meeting 
of the National Commercial Teachers 
Federation, and Dean Connelley was 
present at the state branch meeting
(Continued From Page One.) . 
reading will doubtless seem far
fetched, but we can assure him that 
the statement is absolutely true, 
provided only he- is really anxlMs 
to learn.
To be sure, many of the chapters 
are of such a mathematical charac
ter as to require time and study to 
fully master their contents, but not 
so the greater part of the subject 
matter.
Dr Waddell has presented the vari
ous subjects in a clear and con
vincing way, writing, as he does, 
not only witli a view to the future 
developments of the art, but draw
ing upon a vast fund of knowledge, 
based upon a long and successful 
career as a consulting bridge en
gineer.
Few writers of technical books 
are such thorough masters' of all 
phases of their subject and so de
termined to impress its importance 
upon their readers as is Dr. Wad
dell.
For this reason, the book breathes 
throughout the broad spirit which 
characterizes Dr. Waddells writings, 
particularly along educational lines, 
and we cannot too heartily recom
mend it. to the engineering students 
for careful perusal.
We do not forget that many points 
discussed are still debated questions 
among engineers, but the author 
usually (alls attention t.o such, and 
gives other points of view besides 
his own,
Hence, the student is not likely to 
be misled into thinking that the 
Waddell way is the only way. The 
entire table of contents is too long 
l.o quote hero, but .in addition to 
the topics mentioned above and in
cluding the ordinary types of bridge 
structures, we may mention the chap 
tors on arches-both steel and rein
forced cement- foundations and all 
the works accessory thereto, slior 
protection and mattress work, the 
water-way necessary under bridges, 
and field work in general.
A valuable feature Is the great 
number of diagrams of every sort 
and description, all helpful in quickly 
working up estimates.
Office work, fabrication, inspec
tion, erection, maintenance, renewals, 
examination of old structures, bridge 
failures, and reconstruction are all 
discussed from the point of view 
which long experience indicates as 
the proper one. The chapters deal
ing with reports, specifications, and 
contracts are most carefully de
veloped and will prove a valuable 
guide to beginners, as well as to 
those of longer experience.
The second volume closes with a 
remarkably full and detailed glos
sary of terms used in bridge en
gineering.
Many students regard the collec
tion oL books which they gather to
gether during the four years of. col
lege life as the nucleus of a future 
library, and to such in particular, we 
can recommend that they add this 
two-volume work as a valuable au
thority on bridge construction.
Foot note:
"Bridge Engineering, J. A. L. Wad
dell. Published by John Wiley &
Sons, Inc. Two volumes, $10.
bay2a1ARHARDWARE CO. |
Hardware and 
House-Furnishing Goods ;i;
3606 FORBES ST. t 
Pittsburgh, Pa. ?
i I3MaJilSIH0BlSJSMSJ !
W. O. Breckon i
STUDIOS
FORBES AND ATWOOD STS.
Phones 1603161 Schenley 
8PECIAL PRICES TO TECH 
STUDENTS
"A NATIONAL INSTITUTION
Browning, King & Co.
CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS AND HATS 
FOR MEN, BOYS AND CHILDREN 
439-441 WOOD STREET
Oakland Savings & Trust Co. |
"THE OAKLAND BANK
CAPITAL,
SURPLUS,.
DEPOSITS OVER $3,000,000.00
$200.000 00 
$200,00000
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
ingchcospspspsptpspuOucbspwpshupspsFd
C. c7W. Stauft
Vassars senior class has voted to 
return to the old' custom of having 
the daisy chain carried on class day, 
by mombors of the sophomore class, 
chosen for their beauty. Last year 
the chain was carried by the entire 
sophomore class. All the sophomores, 
however, will have an active part in 
the program, so that the daisy chain 
bearers will not be so prominent as 
in previous commencements.
Brown is practically assured its 
new athletic field, which will be called 
| "The Bears Den. A stadium with 
a capacity of at. least twenty thou| sand will be erected on the site of 
Andrews Field.
a 3702 FORBES STREET  I EPITTSBURGH, PA. Ei3 
STATIONER AND
NEWSDEALER 
Phone 9076 Schenley. ;
GEORGE BROTHERS, Proprietors 
FIRST CLASS SERVICE HIGH GRADE COFFEE
Were Here To Please.
114-116 OAKLAND AVENUE
