NO TARTAN 
issued 
NEXT WEEK(Ehr (Tarian
DORM BALL 
for
Y. M. C. A. BENEFIT
VOL. XII. NO. 10CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIANOV. 21, 1917
$26,500 Pledged Y. M. C. A. 
Tech Students Share is $10,000
Pitt Scores Four Touchdowns Against Improved Tech Eleven
Adverse Conditions Cause 
Failure to Reach Goal 
of $15,000
GIRLS DO GREAT WORK
The Y. M. C. A. campaign closed on 
' Tuesday night with a total of 26,500 
lor the four institutions involved. Al
though that is approximately only 
three-fourths of the goal originally 
set, still the committee feels that the 
work has been a success. The teams 
. at Tech were working against adverse 
conditions, for some of the faculty 
were already on outside teams, and 
most of the night students had been 
approached in their places of business. 
Consequently, the committee is satis
fied in securing approximately $10,000 
of the $15,000 sought here.
The exact amounts for the various 
ischools were as follows:
Pitt ...........................$12,683.00
Tech .......................................... 9,956.65
p. C. W............................................... 1,992.00
Pgh. Seminary......................... 950.00
West. Seminary ... S50.00
Library School ........................ 100.00
Total ........................$26,531.65
It is noteworthy that of the three 
larger schools involved,v the College 
for Women was the only one to secure 
their quota. However, within the oth
er two institutions the . same thing 
could be noticed, for the girls schools 
did uniformly better than the mens. 
Margaret Morrison, girls up to Friday 
night had given over $2,700 of Techs 
share, for an average of about $10.
SELECTIONS ANNOUNCED FOR TAU BETA PI
The fall meeting of Tau Beta Pi, 
planned, as' an annual affair, but held 
lor the first time this year, consti
tuted the program for the Science As
sembly this morning. With Professor 
Hower as chairman of the meeting, 
the local chapter announced the hon
orary and undergraduate elections for 
this semester as follows: Honorary,
Dean W. E. Mott, Prof. J. H. James; 
Seniors, G. W. Todd, L. J. Murphy, 
A. E. Ritts, E. M. Pugh, IC. L. Konnerth, J. R. Fulton; Honor Sophomore, 
P. H. Armor. In addition, announce
ment was made of the institution of a 
custom, unique to the Carnegie Chap
ter, of offering a prize for the Fresh
man maintaining the highest standard 
of scholarship throughout the year.
The chief speaker of the morning 
was Mr. O. P. Hood, of the U. S. Bu
reau of Mines. Mr. Hood, himself a 
well-known engineer and member of 
Tau Beta Pi, spoke of the ideals of 
the fraternity, its benefits, and eligi
bility rules. A student becomes eli
gible at the beginning of his Junior 
year if he was highest in his class at 
the end of the Sophomore term; at 
the middle of his Junior year if among 
the upper eighth of the class; and 
at the beginning of his Senior year if 
among the upper quarter. Men eli
gible, however, must have the added 
qualification of being active in school 
affairs before being selected for the 
society.
Up to this time the interest in Tau 
Beta Pi has been rather limited to 
the upper classes. It has remained 
(Continued on Page Two.)
HARE AND HOUND RACES FDR EVERY SATURDAY
During last Saturdays hare and 
hound race, Kossler and Benter, hares, 
ran the course in 21 minutes, 20 sec
onds. The hounds, handicapped, ran 
in the following order: J. R. Miller,
20 minutes, 40 seconds; Titus, Rutter, 
Mortensen and Ferguson, tied; Elliott 
and J. M. Smith, tied; Hoover, Patter
son, Urmston, F. R. Smith.
There will be a hare and hound race 
every Saturday from now on, weather 
permitting. A cup will be given to 
the successive winners, the man win
ning it three times to own it. When 
the ground is covered with snow col
ored paper will be used.
NOTT NOARi suedEXRE d iWOKK
 ,,s-\ , . A
w.M.r'i.
KLANNICHT WILL HOLD HAND SHAKE MEETING
The Night Science organization, 
Klannicht, has taken up the Y. M. C. 
A. campaign among the Night Science 
men with gratifying results. The 
Klan started the ball rolling with a 
subscription of $200. Through the 
Klan every Night Science man will be 
reached and accounted for. Quite a 
few of the men have already sub
scribed at home and at work, but have 
quite willingly added another bit to 
swell Techs quota.
The Klan expects to inaugurate the 
First Annual Hand-Shalce within a 
few weeks. This will be a feed' and 
smoker from the Fifth Year Night 
Men to the First Year Night Science 
Men, and will birng the entering class 
into closer relations with the Tech 
ideals and activities through meeting 
the older men. This years entering 
class deserves conisderable credit for 
their pep and get-together spirit 
shown so early in the gamel They 
will surely bear watching.
The Annual Night Science Smoker, 
which is arranged by the Third Year 
Class, will come in the latter part of 
December, a couple of weeks after the 
Iiand-Shake. This is one of the big 
affairs of the year and the HandShalce will help considerably towards 
bringing out the First Year Men, who 
heretofore have not taken much inter
est in this affair. One notable point 
about these affairs is that the men 
who attend them are invariably the 
same men who stick out the full five 
year night courses at Tech.
CARNEGIE DAY
MILITARY DRILL OR GYM NOT YET DECIDED
Reporting progress on the census 
that was taken last week among the 
students, regarding the military drill 
and gymnasium exercises, the Regis
trars office reported Monday that an 
insufficient number of ballots had been 
received up to that time to enable 
the Administrative Council to act', in 
the matter.
The percentages of ballots cast in 
the several schools are given below:
School of Applied Science........... 63%
School of Applied Design............ 87%
School of Applied Industries.......68%
Definite action will be taken as soon 
as more returns are secured. Stu
dents who have not as yet expressed 
their preference are urged to do so 
at once at the office of their Dean.
LARGE SUM RAISED BY SALVATION ARMY PARADE
4* BOARD OF CONTROL 4
4 The board meets Wednesday 4* 
4 night. At that time Graduate 4 
4* Manager Gearhart will tender his 4*
? resignation in order to take up 4 
4* government work. 4*
4* The board will select football 4* 
4 managers from the following men 4* 
? recommended: Neal, Campbell, 4*
4* Lee, Jenner, Stone and Toler. 4* 
4-4*4*44*4*4*4'4'4*4*4'4*44*4*4-
An interesting phase of the cam
paign week was the Salvation Army 
parade. The committee from Design 
School, feeling that the campaign 
needed stirring up, proceeded 
therefore, on Friday noon, with the 
aid of two drums, a guitar and flaring 
posters, to parade the campus, going 
through all the buildings. Two stops 
were made in the ^Beanery and ef
fective speeches were made, urging 
those who had not subscribed to do 
so, and those who had, if possible, to 
increase their pledges. Much loose 
change was collected from students 
and deposited in a tamborine. The 
finale" of the parade was the Design 
School, where the spacious, corridors 
made the drum-beats especially ef
fective. One noted scene was the 
hasty and mad exit at the other door 
of a mob of architects when the Sal
vation Army appeared in one door of 
the draughting room. However un
conventional as the parade seemed, it 
was certainly effective, for over $110 
in cash and pledges was raised.
Have you got your ticket ion the Carnegie Day pageant, 
The Drawing of the Sword, November 25th? It* you have, 
and now find you cant use it, give some other fellow $ chance 
by returning it at once to the Registrars Office for redistribu
tion, as the demand will greatly exceed the supply. If you 
havent got the necessary card for admission Sunday evening 
at the Carnegie Music Hall, get it; NOW. Night students can 
secure theirs any evening this week, except Saturday, at the 
Registrars Office. All out to Help observe the Founders 
eighty-second birthday.
The pageant is a big Tech production that has succeeded. 
Written at Tech; first played at Tech; the first cast was all 
Tech students; later given by the American Red Cross in New 
York at the Hippodrome and the Metropolitan Opera House.
Read these press comments: 1
The Pageant is a great dram4. In it you hear the voices 
of the fighting nations. It is a wonderful spectaclevivid, full 
of color, movement and music.Chautauqua Daily.
Last nights audience alternately shed tears and cheered 
loudly. A fifty-minute post graduate course in history in the 
making.Charleston Gazette.
One performance of it. will do more towards stirring up 
latent patriotism than a hundred proclamations.State Jour
nal (Parkersburg).
We have seen pictorial representations oi! ruined cities and 
homes that stirred'our imagination and provoked our sympa
thies as well as our indignation, but to have those woes and 
that devastation adequately personified in dramatic form is to 
clutch the throat and dim the eyes with a new rage and sym
pathy.Pittsburgh Gazette Times.
VOL.X.VV..VVIN1N0CNOAN1NRVVCEGINX.GVVXS
FOOTBALL TEAM ELECTS CAPTAIN FOR NEXT YEAR
Vet Williams was unanimously 
elected Captain of the football team 
for next year by the- Varsity, .letter 
men at their banquet at the Hotel 
Schehley following the Pitt game.
The Captain-elect was captain and 
full-back of the Lorain (Ohio) High 
School team before entering Tech. He 
has played Varsity football for three 
years here. By virtue of his con
sistent work and versatility, Coach 
Steffen declared at the end of the 1916 
season, that Vet was- the most val
uable player on the squad. Pie has 
lived up to his reputation also this 
year. Seldomly doing the spectacular, 
he has played and fought hard for 
Tech for three years. He is one of 
the few athletes who keeps training 
twelve months in the year.
Thirteen men earned the Varsity 
Football letter. These will be award
ed later in the year. The men who 
qualified are: McFeaters, Earley, Wil
liams, Alexander, Bloom, Lynn, Ginn, 
Wagner, Carey, Jones, Fox, Gretzler, 
Nemser and Levinson.
SOPH-PLEBE CONTEST CLOSES HOCKEY SEASON
The hockey season at Margaret Mor
rison ended Saturday with a very 
close and exciting game between the 
Sophomore arid Plebe teams. The 
spirit shown by both teams and their 
classmates on*the side lines was quite 
a new thing in Margaret Morrison 
athletics and augurs well for the fu
ture. The game was hard fought and 
anyone who has had the impression 
that Margaret Morrison girls exercise 
only in dancing and pink teas should 
have witnessed that active struggle. 
Both teams displayed good playing, 
but the better team work was shown 
by the Sophomores, their goals being 
directly attributed to it. The first 
goal was made by the Sophs in the 
second quarter, but owing to the close 
playing of the right inside and center 
forwards, it cannot be said who put 
the ball over. The Sophs scored twice 
after this, both goals being made by 
Harriet Stone, left wing. Several 
times the ball was dangerously near 
the Plebe goal line, and once in the 
first quarter it was headed with a fly
ing start right for the fatal line, when 
a well-timed play of the Soph goal de(Continued on Page Two.)
LYNN AROUND END
INTERDORM BALL TO BE FOR Y. M. C. A. BENEFIT
All arrangements for the InterDorm Ball at the Foyer, Carnegie Mu
sic Hall, Friday night, are completed. 
At a meeting of the, committee, Mon
day afternoon, it was deoided to turn 
all the proceeds over to the Y. M. C, 
A. benefit. In order to swell this fund 
it was decided to throw the ball opon 
to all Tech students. Every student 
can help the cause by attending, as 
tickets will be on sale and notices 
posted to this effect. The war has 
changed conditions so that there are 
no more prospects of large social af
fairs. As the attraction Is so great, 
there is no doubt but what the success 
of it is doubly Insured. Remembering 
that all the proceeds are for the sol
dier boys, through the Y. M. C. A. 
fund, it Is an honor and a duty to aid. 
The admission Is but one dollar per 
couple, and with all that has been 
said before, no further urging should 
be necessary.
4* 4* 4* 4* 4 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* *1* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 
4* 4*
4 NO TARTAN NEXT WEEK 4* 1 ---------
4* There will bo no Issue of the 4* 
4* Tartan next week because of 4 
4 Thanksgiving vacation coming on 4 
4 Thursday. 4
4* 4
4* 4 4 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4 4 4* 4* 4* 4* 4*
SMOKER ENJOYED BY NEW ENGLAND CLUB MEN
The Now England Club hold Its sec
ond smokor of the year on Wednesday 
evening in the Science Club Room. 
Although the attendance was rather 
small, those who did come, spent a 
very enjoyable evening. Short talks 
wore given by Mr. Simmons and Dr 
Hains, of the faculty. It was decided 
to hold a big smoker following the 
Christmas recess, in order that the 
fellows who went home might bo able 
to expand on the things at home to 
their less fortunate brother students 
who had to stay in Pittsburgh.
The feature of the evening, aside 
from the eats and smoker, was the 
well-known pie-eating contest. This 
was won by Roberts, who certainly 
had to extend himself to draw away 
from the other contestants.
NIGHT SCHOOL GIRLS BOOST Y. M. C. A. FUND
Wednesday, Nov. 14 will go down in 
the M. M. C. S. Night School history. 
At 8:30, classes were dismissed and 
all the girls gathered in Assembly 
Hall to hear Miss Ruth I. Pearson, 
Student Field Secretary for Pennsyl
vania, Delaware, and Maryland, who 
was in France when the war broke 
out, tell about work which the Y. M. 
C. A. is doing for the soldiers in Eu
rope and America. Miss Pearson told 
about the prison-camp life, about the 
work on the battle front, about the 
recreation huts, and about the Y. M.
C. A. Hostess Houses and the organiza
tion of patriotic leagues of girls.
Dean Mary B. Breed, before intro
ducing Miss Pearson, spoke about how 
the day girls were finding systematic 
methods for sacrificing for this vital 
cause of keeping our boys clean and 
happy.
When pledge cards wore distributed, 
some of the girls responded nobly, 
$151, being received on fifteen pledge 
cards.
On Thursday evening, $1.28 were 
pledged by night girls. Those girls 
who have pledge cards not yet handed 
in, should send them directly to the 
(Continued on Page Two.)
Capt. McFeaters Team Over
come Only by Superior 
Weight and Force
EARLY IN HOSPITAL
Tech fought hard against the Pitt 
Grid team Saturday. From the timo 
Captain McFeaters led the team onto 
the field until they emerged from the 
fray, defeated 27 to 0, but not van
quished, eaCli man put forth his best 
effort.
It is true that this great effort was 
not sufficient to stem the tide of de
feat, but it is no disgrace to lose to 
what is probably the strongest foot
ball team in the country today. This 
wonderful machine was forced to work 
for every point it made and it was 
only by a. superiority of weight and 
brute force that its scores were forced 
across the Tech goal line.
The Tech Varsity improved so mark
edly in this game that it hardly re
sembled the green squad which start
ed the season. All departments of 
play had been vastly perfected by 
"Coach Steffen since the Cornell game.
Every man o,n the field deserves 
especial comment for his work. The 
line although greatly outweighed held 
McLaren for comparatively small 
gains. After the lcickoff In the second 
half It held the mighty Panther for 
downs within her own 15-yard line. 
It hold the Pitt forwards out long 
enough that Lynn was able to take 
enough time to get his punts away 
well; those averaged better than forty 
yards.
Captain-elect Williams and Wngnor 
at the ends ran down under the punts 
well and also held the Pitt backs at 
the ends. Captain McFeaters and Fox 
fought hard against their heavier op
ponents, at the tackles. In tho sec
ond half Fox broke through and block
ed a pass before Easterday could got 
it away six feet. Jones continually 
sifted through Sutherland to nail tho 
Pitt backs In their tracks. Ills work 
in getting tho runners after the punts 
(Continued on Page Throe.)
M. M. C. S. GIRLS INTEND TO ORGANIZE Y. W. C. A.
, On Monday afternoon, November 12, 
In Miss Parry's room, M. M. C. S., Miss 
Ruth I. Poarson, Student Field Secre
tary of Y. W. C. A., talked to tho Girls 
131 bib Circle and others Interested, 
about forming a Y. W. C. A. hero at 
Tocli. Many attempts have been mado 
for several years to start such an or
ganization, and through the effort and 
''stlck-to-lt-ivo-noss of less than a 
dozen girls, perhaps, this will soon 
bo accomplished. This week, applica
tion for membership to the National 
Association, and a constitution drawn 
up according to directions advised by 
Miss Poarson, will be sent to tho Field 
Secretaries of the District, at Phila
delphia, for their acceptance and ap
proval. Strenuous efforts are being 
made to have the Tech Y. W. C. A. 
begin active work before the Christ
mas holidays. All girls interested in 
this work both in Design and Margaret 
Morrison Schools are requested to 
watch the bulletin boards for the no
tice of the meeting this week.
RED CROSS AUXILIARY SENDS GIFTS TO FRANCE
In the last two weeks, the Tech Red 
Cross Auxiliary has sent complete 
sets, consisting of a sweater, a scarf, 
wristlets, and socks, to the following 
Tech men in France:
Butts, Edward A.
Green, M. E.
Lipplncott, W. P.
Stewart, S. P.
Vollmer, V. A.
Wilkins, Oliver 
Darlington, Paul 
Bucher, E. S.
Kesner, James E.
Rowe, L. Ii.
Lack of funds for the purchasing 
of yarn, keeps this work from advanc
ing faster. The faster you como 
across, the more outfits we will send 
across.
4 *1 1 .j. j. * 4 *1 4* 4 4 4* 4
* 4
4* VAR3ITY CLAN 4
4.   4
4 At the Varsity Clan meeting 4 
4* Saturday night, Clarence Overcnd 4 
4* was re-elected president, and C. 4 
4 A. Colmery was elected secretary- 4 
4* treasurer. 4
4. 4
'.
I

---------------------------------------------------

Page TwoTHE TARTANWednesday, November 21, 1917
Variait
Published every Wednesday by undergraduate of the Carnegie InHtltute 
of Technology.
Entered In tho postonico of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
Canada, $1.75' Yearly, $1.50
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
5c the copy
Editor-in-Chlcf .... 
Business Manager .
Phone Crant 388-R. 
Phone Schenley 91G7
. Paul H. Armor ; 
Nelson P. Rice
EDITORIAL 
Managing Editor 
L. K. Paquln 
Assistant Managing Editor
L. E. Emerich
Editors 
Marguerite Bollinger 
Salomo Stamm 
P. S. McNamara 
Joseph Levin 
Design Assistants 
Ellen Crowe 
James Church 
Scicncc Assistants 
Meinhold Bingham 
Industries Assistant 
R. P. Avery
M. M. C. 8. Assistants 
Marguerite Ilaldeman 
Margaret Lappe 
Anne McCandlass 
Lydia McCarthy 
Athletic Editor 
I. H. Blau 
Staff Photographer 
William M. Myler, Jr.
BUSINESS 
Manager Mailing List 
II. R. Titus 
Circulation Manager 
H. W. Anderson 
Assistants 
C. H. Todd 
C. L. Altschul 
M. I. Cohen
TARTAN OFFICE.......................................................................Room 162, Design
Hours2:00 to 4:00 Mondays.
4:30 to 5:00 Wednesdays and Thursdays. /
The Edltor-in-Chlef Is responsible for tbe policy of this paper; the Man
aging Editor for the malce up.
All business communications should be sent to the Business Manager. 
Any delay In delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported 
at once.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student Interest, if signed, 
the signature to be withheld if desired.
All news items must be in the student postofilce, Central Building, before 
noon on Mondays. ________________________________________ 28
MEN!
The Y. M. C. A. campaign resulted well, but not well enough. 
Yet there is little we can say; there are so many cases where the 
sacrifice made was really deserving oi; praise that we cannot censure, 
and so many cases which were obviously deserving of blame that we 
cannot praise.
In one group only was the response quick and unanimous; that 
was among the girls oi! the Institute. Fortunately their influence 
extended somewhat beyond their own school. Last Friday, Nov. 16, 
Miss Phyllis McMarlin, of the Margaret Morrison School, addressed 
a special assembly in Industries; the following comes from one of her 
audience:
Miss McMarlin came with a purpose, a purpose not at all flat 
tering; she was there to tell the men exactly what the girls thought 
of them. Statistics taken by noon Friday showed that of the total 
amount subscribed for the Y. M. G. A. fund, the great bulk of it 
came from the Margaret Morrison School. There are just as many 
students in that school who are in straitened circumstances as 
there are in the mens schools. For every dollar subscribed by those 
girls a sacrifice has been made, in many cases a bitter one. Some 
have pledged themselves to go without new clothes,, others to do 
their own laundry, others to Cut jewelry, candy and dainties. At 
first one is inclined to smile, but when one realizes what all these 
little things moan, things so dear to the feminine heart, only then 
does the true significance of this sacrifice strike home. The girls of 
the Margaret Morrison School have formed a group whose watchword 
is 'S. O. S.Save Our Swoothcarts.
What are the men doingV 
It is doubtful, even now, if the speaker realized tho cffect of her 
words on that crowd. Miss Me.Marlin spoke earnestly; she made a 
wonderful impression.
THAT DRILL DECISION.
An announcement from the registrars office on Monday'stated 
that the vote on tho gym-drill question, had not been sufficiently large 
for the administrative council to reach a decision. That would indi
cate that neither bide had a substantial ^majority, but at the time we 
believe that the greater number favored drill. The encouraging de
tail of the announcement was the promise, Definite action will be 
taken as soon as more returns are secured.
Just as an aid to those who have not yet deposited their votes in 
one ol! the deans offices, we give the following extract from a letter 
by Corporal Einstein, Science, 17:
I hasten to say that I am still busy; this life is strenuous to an 
extreme. Any details 1 might supply are no doubt known to you if 
you read the papers. Let me say right now that what military train
ing I received while at Tech has stood me in good stead and made 
hard work a lot easier; and let me say that Tech owes it to every 
student to ground him in the fundamentals of close order drill and 
discipline, so that he may be of more service to his country when 
called.
P. A. A. TO GIVE FOUR WAR
AT FORBES FIELD.
We believe that the relations between Pitt and Tech have grown 
too firm to be disturbed even by so regretable an incident as that at 
Forbes Field on Saturday; nevertheless the whole thing was bad from 
an outsiders point of view. Blame undoubtedly can be attached to 
both schools, but the primary fault is Techs, for we were absolutely 
beyond our rights in insisting upon a parade on Pitts home grounds.
The cheerleaders attempted to tell the rooters so, and would have 
succeeded, we believe, if it had not been ior the activity of certain
members of the^Plebe class, the president of the Science Plebes, in
particular. It is true that the first year class this year forms a larger 
percentage of the school than ever before, but the time has not yet 
come when the president of that class can arrogate unto himself 
powers which an upper classman would hesitate to assume. The 
sooner the Senate makes him realize his mistakes, this among others, 
the better it will be for his class.
j A new librarian of' the Mandolin 
Club will be elected to replace Head
land who Is leaving school shortly. 
I Everyone should attend the smoker. 
There will bo eats and smokes on 
hand.
PLEBE ELECTION.
MUSICAL CLUBS SMOKER TO BE HELD IN UNION
There will be a special practice for 
the Mandolin Club Friday evening at 
7 p. in. This is an important meeting 
and every man is urged to attend.
The Annual Musical Club's Smoker 
will be held in the Union Saturday 
night, at S:.15. p. m. All men who have 
specialties will be chosen according 
to their showing that night. This ap
plies to soloists, readers and musi
cians. i
The Plebe Class of M. M. C. S. has 
elected the following ollicers: 
President. Edith Pearson 
Vice President, Ellen Speers 
Secretary, Majry McCandless 
Treasurer, Dorothy O. Grier 
Senate Rep., Helen Iiewit. 
The forces of evilthe insidious as
saults of bad companions, drink, dis
easelie in wait for our soldier boys 
not in the camps, but outside. Uncle 
Sam furnishes clothes, food and shel
ter, while the Y. M. C. A., Knights of 
Columbus and other agencies have pro
vided and splendidly equipped build
ings or quarters for the entertain
ment and amusement of the boys in 
their leisure timewithin the Camp, 
But until the organization under au
thority of the War Department of'the 
War Camp Community Fund, there 
was no agency which provided to the 
man on "leave of absence any means 
for healthful recreation or social con
tact with the better influences of the 
community into which he comes a to
taland perhaps a lonelystranger, 
seeking for a few hours relief from 
the monotony of camp life.
The President of the United States 
and the Secretary of War have asked 
the co-operation of citizen organiza
tions for this imperative need.
In the four splendid concerts offered 
this winter in the Pittsburgh Athletic 
Association Club House, the Directors 
saw an opportunity whereby the mu
sic loving members of the Club could 
not only enjoy the delightful programs 
to bo presented, but at the same time 
could fittingly contribute to this most 
vital recreational enterprise. They de
cided, therefore, that the entire net 
proceeds should be paid over to the 
War Camp Community Fund.
The subscription price for the four 
concerts is but five ($5.00) dollars, 
The War Tax is 50 cents. Members 
are requested to sign the subscription 
blanks and indicate the number of 
season tickets desired and mail or 
hand same to Edward Danenhower, 
Manager of the Pittsburgh Athletic 
Association.' Reserved seats for all 
four concerts will then be mailed to 
the subscriber and the price of same 
charged on his Club account in the 
usual manner.
What more patriotic, more suitable, 
or more enjoyable Christmas gift 
could one give to members of his fam
ily than a season ticket for these fine 
concerts, insuring pleasure and profit 
to the recipients of the tickets and at 
the same time helping to provide 
means for the entertainment and 
guidance of thousands of American 
boys who will this winter so sorely 
miss the home influences for the first 
time in their lives.
The concerts, scheduled for four 
Saturday evenings in the Gymnasium, 
are as follows:
Saturday, November 24th, Russian 
Program by the Russian Symphony 
Orchestra, with Mine. Blanche da.Cost.a, lyric soprano.
Saturday, January 5tli, English Pro
gram by Evan Williams, tenor.
Saturday, January 26th, American 
Program btv Miss Wynne Pyle, pianist, 
and David Bispham, baritone and dra
matic reader.
Saturday, February 16tli, French 
Program, by Mfss Sue Harvard, dra
matic soprano and the Trio de Luteceflute, harp, cellotheir second appear
ance.
M. M. C. S. GIRLS RAISE SHARE FOR Y. M. C. A.
The girls of M. M. C. S. appreciated 
heartily the opportunity of getting to
gether with other students of Pitts
burgh and helping along the $35,000,- 
000 Y. M. C. A. fund. As a result of 
the stimuli and enthusiasm received 
at the various meetings and six 
o'clock dinners, over $2,700 was pledg
ed in the girls school. This makes 
a very good average, for M. M. was 
to be responsible for only 250 students. 
The team .captains were;
SeniorLorene Friedman.
JuniorDorothy Harlow.
SophomoreHarriet Stone.
PlebeDorothy Turkie.
S. I. V. & College GraduatesAnn 
Searight.
Irregular and FacultyHetty ,Hazlett.
Night StudentsMarguerite I-Ialdeman.
All deserve great credit in launch
ing this campaign.
****** *********** 
* *
* Because so few tickets were *
* sold, the dance for the Civilian *
* Relief Fund was postponed. It is *
* hoped that when it is held later *
* the student body will give it their *
* hearty support. ** * * * ***************
M. M. C. S. NOTES
Over the week-end Misses BrOwning, 
Hewitt, Nel?on,_Merritt, Davidson, and 
Sellers visited Camp Louise Carnegie.
On Thanksgiving Day, Miss Hazel 
Freeland of Bon Avon, from the .1015 
class of M. M. C. S., will become the 
bride of Mr. Max Stoncroad.
During tho week, Dean Breed re
ceived a long letter from Dr. Blair in 
France and intends to read it in As
sembly on Wednesday.
DEATH NOTICE
The School of Applied Industries 
wish to offer their deepest sympathy 
to Mr. W. F. Pfouts, whose mother 
died early last Tuesday morning at 
her home in Canton, Ohio. Mr. Pfouts 
has been absent for the last week on 
this account.
***************** * *
* NOMINATIONS ** ------ *
* Science Soph. Treasurer. *
* Dale Aul *
* L. E. Emerich *
* M. A. Fair *
* J. C. Levy *
* Grant Stone *
* * 
*****************
M. M. C. S. DELEGATES ATTEND ....
Miss Florence Bechtel, representa
tive of M.. M. C. S. student govern
ment, and Miss Helen Savard, Junior 
representative, went to Syracuse last 
Wednesday to attend the Student 
Government Convention.
Seventy delegates from thirty-eight 
colleges were present. Two closed 
meetings were held, during which 
were discussed such subjects as the 
co-operation of students and faculty 
in matters of faculty supervision; new 
amendments to constitution; develop
ment of honor system; extent of stu
dent government over class elections 
and other school organizations; the 
value of publicity in school affairs; 
the value of some hazing of freshmen 
and the effect of the general oponion 
on school regulations; and also the 
increasing efficiency of vocational 
bureaus.
It was decided to have the meeting 
next year at Wilson College.
The delegates were entertained at 
tea at the home of Chancellor Day, 
of Syracuse University, on the day of 
their arrival.
Friday afternoon an open meeting 
was held in which the work of the 
various colleges toward War Relief 
was discussed. Some colleges have 
given ambulances, others have done 
extensive Red Cross work, while oth
ers have contributed to the relief of 
the war orphans.
Qn Friday evening the delegates 
were entertained at a Y. W. C. A. ban
quet at the Onondaga Hotel, after 
which dancing followed. Saturday 
they attended the Syracuse-Colgate 
game at the Syracuse Stadium.
SHADYSIDE CHURCH HAS NEW MEMBERSHIP PLAN
Realizing that many students hesi
tate to sever their connection with 
their home church, the Shadyside 
Presbyterian Church offers to Tech 
students a means of uniting with a 
church in Pittsburgh without discon
tinuing their membership at home. 
This.is accomplished through the stu
dent affiliate membership plan. Any 
student-signing the following declara
tion may become a student member of 
Shadyside:
Durincr mv student residence in 
Pittsburgh, I desire to be on the 
Membership Roll of the Shady
side Presbyterian Church as a stu
dent affiliated member, which 
membership, while not affecting 
my letter in my honie church, does 
register my desire to be affiliated 
with a church in Pittsburgh."
All student members are granted 
every privilege of the church. They 
are assigned free sitting; and the pas
tor, Rev. Hugh T. Kerr, well known 
as one interested in young people, will 
gladly serve them in any capacity.
SELECTIONS FOR TAU BETA PI
(Continued From Page One.) 
for the Carnegie Chapter to devise a 
means for arousing interest in schol
astic records in the Plebe class, as 
was announced this morning in a talk 
by Prof. Trinks, following Mr. Hood. 
In view of the fact that the announce
ment was made by Prof. Trinks, it is 
perhaps peculiarly appropriate that 
the prize for the Plebe maintaining 
the highest scholarship this year is 
to be a polyphase slide rule.
The announcement of the two men 
elected to honorary membership was 
then made by the president of the lo
cal chapter, R. I. Soule. They were 
addressed by R. L. Utley, who was 
president of the 1917 Tau Beta Pi 
convention at Aimes, Iowa. Soule 
read the. second list, that of under
graduate selections, and these men 
were then publicly pledged in a talk 
by Director Hamersclilag.
DAVIS THEATRE
One of the particularly interesting 
occasions of each season at the Davis 
Theatre in recent .years has been the 
engagement of Eva Tanguay. It is, 
therefore,, reasonable to believe that 
the forthcoming week at the Davis 
Theatre, beginning Monday afternoon, 
November 19, when she is to headline 
a bill of nine selected vaudeville acts, 
will be an occasion that will test the 
capacity of the theatre every after
noon and evening
shortly after which time was called. 
The lineup was as follows:
Sophs3.
Nell Brey ..................Center Forward
Irma Friedman.................. Left inside
Harriet Stone.......................Left Wing
Alice Wirth ... ...............Right Inside
Grace Beatty . .$..............Right Wing
Lucy Hart.............................Right Half
Blanche Sheppard (Capt) Center Half
Barbara Endres ......................Left Half
Helena Walters ...........Left Fullback
Marian Batchelor .... Right Fullback
Margaret Mattern .................... Goal
Plebes1.
Mildred Spencer---- Center Forward
Elizabeth Smith ........ Left Inside
Irene Davis ....................... Left Wing
Lucy Robertson .....Right Inside
Mabel Alexander -.............Right Wing
Florence Solomon................Right Half
Dorothy Turkie............... Center Half
Stella Potts.............................Left Half
Margaret Slonaker .... Left Fullback
I-Iettie Hazlett .......... Right Fullback
Selma Sussman............................Goal
Substitutions  Sophs: Krummell,
Buchele, Roberts, Young., Plebes: 
McCandless, McCombs, Gitt, Reid, 
Schade, Speers, Potts, Sleppy, Rich
mond, Schmucker.
NIGHT SCHOOL GIRLS
BOOST Y. M. C. A. FUND
(Continued From Page One.) 
local treasurer, Mr. F. H. Eckels, Audi
tor of the. University of Pittsburgh, to 
whom payment of the pledges should 
also be made.
MR. G. DOUGLAS WARDROP ADDRESSES ASSEMBLY
Mr. G. Douglas Wardrop, editor of 
the Aerial Age Weekly and Managing 
Director of the Aeronautic Library 
and the Aeronautic Photo and News 
Service, addresses the student assem
bly of the School of Applied Industries 
in room 104 at 12:30 oclock today. 
This address is illustrated by lantern 
slides and motion pictures. In his let
ter, Mr. Wardrop says: I shall show 
in motion a huge Handley-Page bomb
ing machine, the directing of artillery 
by wireless from the air, kite balloon 
and seaplane activities, and a trip 
around New York in a flying boat. 
The slides cover reconnaissance, 
bombing, night flying, aerial photo
graphy, military aerostatics, and naval 
aeronautics in all phases.
BEAN BREEB SPEAKS ON WAR WORK AT ASSEMBLY
At the regular weekly assembly on 
Wednesday; November 17, Dean Breed 
enlarged upon some of the vital points 
touched upon at the big meeting at 
Syria Mosque on Tuesday. She em
phasized the importance of keeping 
high standards among our men at war, 
and the influence of this upon future 
generations.
The idea of the S. O. S. (Save Our 
Sweethearts) Club was discussed, in
volving some systematic form of sacri
fice. The Cotton Stocking League, in
augurated some weeks ago by the 
Dean, here plays an important part.
Sad news came to the girls when 
Helen Senn, president of the Student 
Govt. Assn., announced that because 
of the doctors orders she must give 
up the presidency. For some tim 
Miss Senn has been under the doctors 
care, and a recent attack of tonsilitis 
left her in such a weakened condition 
that she is on the verge of a nervous 
collapse. Deep regret it felt by the 
entire school over her resignation. 
Miss Florence Bechtel, vice president 
of the organization, who also went in 
Miss Senns place to the Student Con
vention in Syracuse, will take up the 
duties of president.
ACTIVITIES BOARD WILL CONTINUE PLEBE BIBLE
The second meeting of the student 
Activities Board was held Wednesday 
night in Carnegie Union.
The resignation of Miss Holler, the 
secretary, and a representative of the 
Margaret. Morrison School, was read 
and accepted. The choosing of a new 
secretary was put off till the next 
meeting.
R. R. Willoughby, the Night Science 
representative, wTas - elected as repre
sentative on the Student Council.
All Tech men and women are famil
iar with and often refer to the small 
Student Handbook, or better known 
as the Plebe Bible. The stock of 
books ran out this year, but it was de
cided to continue them; approach the 
Student Council on the matter of their 
editorship, and furnish the books free 
to all Plebes and for a small sum to 
all upper classmen.
DRAMA NOTES
SOPH-PLEBE CONTEST
CLOSES HOCKEY SEASON
(Continued From Page One' 
fendjer; Margaret Mattern, prevented | 
the Plebes from scoring. In the third 
quarter, however, when the Sopho-*| 
more captain was temporarily out of | 
the game, the Plebes, with a sudden 
spurt of courage, took the ball up the 
field and their left wing. Irene Davis, 
made their only goal. The last quar
ter, the Sophs took hold and the ball 
went rapidly down to the goal line, 
when the Sophs made their final score,
The night students of the Dramatic 
Arts Department are rehearsing a 
play, Just Women, written by Col
vin Campbell Clements, a member of 
the day classes. His play is now be
ing played in the "Little Theatre, in 
San Francisco, Cal., and is meeting 
with great success.
, The night students are klso rehears
ing Dancing Dolls, by Kenneth Saw
yer Goodman and "Neighbors, by 
Zona Gale.
Mr. Frederick C. McConnell, who 
graduated from the Dramatic Arts De
partment last June has been appointed i 
assistant director of the Arts and 
Crafts Theatre in Detroit for the com-' 
ing season.
COLLAR
each
CHURCHES
ST. PAULS CATHEDRAL. 
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.
Masses: 6:30, 8:00, 9:00, 10:00 and 
11:00 A. M. on Sundays and Holy 
Days.
Vespers on Sundays at 7:30 P. M. 
Parish Hall and Gymnasium, Craig 
street.
GRACE CHURCH
(Reformed)
AYARD AND DITHRIDGE STREETS 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Pastor 
THE MAKEUP OF A MAN 
Students' Series 
SUNDAY EVENING SERMONS 
At 7:45 
GENERAL SUBJECT:
Man is a Soul and has a Body. 
Nov. 18The Searchlight of the Soul. 
Nov. 25The Steering Apparatus of' 
the Soul.
Dec. 2The Alarm Clock of the Soul... 
Dec. 9The Sunshine of the Soul.
Dec. 16The Picture Gallery of the.- 
Soul.
Dec. 23Illustrated Lecture.
(Christmas.)
Dec. 30The Soul's Book-Keeper.
(The End of Year.)
ST. ANDREW'S EVANGELICAL 
LUTHERAN CHURCH 
Centre and Morewood Avenues 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Bible Classes at 9:30 A. M.
Morning Worship, 10:45; Evening,. 
7:45. Helpful sermons on Bibl&? 
themes only.
A hearty welcome to students. 
HENRY P. ECKHARDT, Pastor.
ASCENSION EPISCOPAL CHURCH* 
Ellsworth Avenue and Neville StreetDR. WYATT BROWN, Rector. 
REV. E. JEFFERY JENNINGS,
Assistant.
Sunday Services, 11 A. M. and 7:45' P. M.
Bible Class, 10:00 A. M.
Tech students cordially welcomed.
BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN 
CHURCH 
(Fifth and Bellefield.)
REV. ROBERT MacGOWAN 
M. A. (Glasgow) r 
D. D. (Pittsbugh) 
will preach at 11 and 8. 
Bible School 9:45. 
Christian Endeavor 7.
Dr. MacGowan is here to help 
the students. For conference 
ring Schenley 3447.
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
Shady and Northumberland Avenues 
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. 
Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M. and 
5:00 P. M.
Young Peoples Service, 7:00 P. M. 
Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages. 
A cordial welcome to all.
ROBERT B. MILLER, D. D., 
Pastor.
Students Cordially Invited
-to theYOUNG MEN'S BARACA BIBLE 
CLASS
Every Sunday Morning9:45
--------at---------
OAKLAND BAPTIST CHURCH 
McKEE PLACE and LOUISA STREET 
COME, VISIT US and enjoy an hour 
with the real Bible as it appeals to 
real men.
 OAKLAND M. E. CHURCH 
Forbes and Bouquet Streets 
Rev. George Avery Neeld, 
Minister 
Morning service at 10:45; 
Evenings at 7:45; Bible School 
at 9:30 A. M.
Sermon subject Sunday Evening 
November 18: 
Materialismthe worship of 
Iron, Gold, Silk and Sensation.
lc!i3M3M3J3M2MSM31SMSM3MSMc
MAKE SHADYSIDE PRESBYTE
RIAN CHURCH 
YOUR CHURCH HOME
Amberson Ave., Near Fifth. 
Church School, 9:45 A. M. 
Margarget Morrison Class, Mrs. 
Frederic B. Shipp, Teacher.
Young Mens Class, Mr. Harry S. 
Calvert, Teacher.
Morning Service, 11 A. M. 
Evening Service, 8 P. M.
Become a Tech student affiliated 
member of Shadyside Church. 
HUGH T. KERR, D. D., Minister.
12777197
^

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, November 21, 1917THE TARTAN.wnre*
Genuine
French
Briar
A Real Pipe
forCollege Men
These are two of the 
24 popular shapes in 
which you can get the
Stratford #
$1.00 and up
W D C Hand Made
$1.50 and up 
Each aTfine pipe, 
with sterling silver ring 
and vulcanite bit. 
Leading1 dealers in 
town carry a full as
sortment. Select your 
favorite style.
WM. DEMUTH & CO.
New York 
Worlds Largest Pipe Manufacturers
DO YOU DANCE? I
DANCING LESSONS  CLASS AND PRIVATE g
Special Class for High School and College Students, Starting Mon- M
day, October 15, at 8:00 P. M. s
JACQUES DANCING ACADEMY g
CRAIG AND FORBES BELL PHONE 3
[SM3M3M3M3M3M2M3M3M3M3MSM3MSI3MSMSMSM3MSM3MSMMSMSJSJ
BATTERY
*t>e
CITY ELECTRIC CO.
436 Seventh Ave.
All Kinds of BATTERIES 
SERVICE Repaired and Recharged
fS/S/^Jc!MS[^cyGcyb^ocGiJiHJiiiJciMciJDlJDlJJlJiJciM2MSMSM2MSMSM3MSiSM^MSM3M2MSi
lllinillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllill!
I Carnegie Institute of Technology |
THE Carnegie Institute of Technology consists of four separate 
schools,' each with its own faculty, buildings and students. 
The courses of instruction offered are:
School of Applied ScienceOffers courses in chemical, civil, 
commercial, electrical, mechanical, metallurgical, mining, and sanitary 
enginereing, leading to the degree of Bachelor of Science. Also 
courses in science in preparation for teaching or for research and 
graduate courses.
School of Applied DesignOffers courses in architecture, paint
ing, decoration, illustration, music, sculpture and dramatic arts, open 
to men and women,, leading to the degree of Bachelor of Arts. Also 
graduate courses.
School of Applied IndustriesOffers industrial courses in ma
chine construction, building construction, general equipment and 
installation, and printing. Also a course for training industrial 
teachers, leading to the degree of Bachelor of Science in Industrial 
Education. Short courses of eight months are offered in machine 
shop, pattern making, mechanical drawing, electric wiring, plumDing, 
foundry, forging and -bricklaying for more mature, applicants who 
have had some experience in these trades.
Margaret Morrison Carnegie SchoolFor women. Offers a regu
lar day course of general training, with particular emphasis on 
home-making, followed by specialized training in household eco
nomics, costume economics, home arts and crafts, general science, 
or social work, leading to the degree of Bachelor of Science. Also 
courses for the training of teachers in the above subjects.
Night CoursesThe four schools offer night courses in practic
ally all of the above subjects to provide educational opportunities 
for those who are at work during the day.
FeesThe total fees for a day course are $48.00 a year for resi
dents of Pittsburgh and $58.00 for non-residents. For night courses, 
$16.00 for residents, and $18.00 for non-residents.
g For further information address Registrar, Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, Pittsburgh.
[| ALL WORK GUARANTEED PROMPT SERVICE
| JAMES PARISI
1 MODERN ELECTRIC SHOE REPAIRING
I 217/2 ATWOOD STREET PITTSBURGH, PA.
[I BEST LEATHER USED
fgMgjgMgMgMgMgMgMgMgjgMgMEiMgMgMgMgjgMgMgjgMgMgjgMgMigjgMgMMgM
STUDENT LUNCHEON
Milk or Coffee, 5c Pie, 5c per cut 
Hot Chocolate, 10c 
Ham or Cheese Sandwich, 5c
Rolls and Butter, 5c 
Ice Cream, 10c
THE HALLER BAKERY 
3610 FORBES STREET 
Iroquois Block.
There is no finer expression 
of friendship than the sending 
of a Box of R. V. B. Chocolates. 
"Ask the girl who knows.'
*
SELLENG AT ALL 
STORES
.niillI,i,i!i,ii;|ill!llllllIllll!lia:i:il!I]!;i]!l||lll!:!mi|,]|[||||i!|ll!l!||l]|:||]|||I[|||||||||2|!lM
fVfeion
NaOonaB
Barak
PITTSBURGH 
510-514 Smithfleld St. 
409-413 Fifth Ave. 
406-410 Oliver Ave. 
Capital - - - - $6,000,000
3M5MS/SMSM2/SMSMSMJS1
W. O. Breckon I
STUDIOS 1
Resources Over 
$100,000,000
* *
FORBES AND ATWOOD STS. 
Phones 1603161 Schenley 
1 SPECIAL PRICES TO TECH 
STUDENTS
i* * PZ' i*  2* ?I* *! *
NOMINATIONS
Sec. Industries Assembly
Perkins
Denman
Oakley
-Yost
1
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
CIVILS AND SANITARIES TO HAVE BIG MEETING
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS. I ** 
Every man in Tech who takes civil 
engineering, or who teaches it, or who 
has graduated in it, or any Plebes who 
want to look the department over be
fore electing their Sophomore courses 
should be at the C. E. Society meeting 
tonight, in room 55 Science. The build
ing construction club will be the guests 
of the C. E. S. for the evening.
The meeting will start promptly at 
7:30. A number of committees are 
to report on their work and each one 
on the society dance, club room, 
military service, and Liberty Bond 
can show a most satisfactory record 
of things done. If the civils win their 
football game, there will be something 
else to talk about.
The addresses will be stories of 
practical engineering told by those 
who have had it. Professor Rubey 
will tell of very modern and practical 
problems in the building of the Na
tional Army cantonments. The stu
dents who are also on the program for 
short talks are C. D. Mills, 19, F. J, 
Wood, nite, C. W. Craig,. 20, and A. 
B. Krebs, 20.
The first actual improvement to the 
club room is the magazine rack made 
by Phil Vetter of the Junior class. 
Professor McCullough designed it, and 
Vetter put it in the club room, hand
ling all the "fabrication and erection 
alone. Even with our military drill 
controversies and Pitt games there is 
some constructive criticism possible, 
and giving Vetter credit for his work 
on the magazine rack is part of it.
SWEETHEARTS ENJOYED BY LARGE AUDIENCE
W. S. Gilberts dramatic contrast, 
Sweethearts, was presented on Fri
day afternoon, November 16, before a 
large and appreciative audience, in 
the Theater of the School of Applied 
Design.
It is a very charming little play, 
which creates for itself an atmosphere 
of serenity. The intellectual stimulus 
being absent, it is restful, like certain 
kinds of music, but this is not to say 
that it lacks interest the appreciative 
response of the audience would refute 
such an imputation.
The selection of the cast showed a 
nice discrimination. Miss Hazel Becks 
Miss Jenny Northcott, the girl, was 
a delightful bit of coquetrycharming 
to a degreeand as the woman, her 
emotional acting was wonderful. All 
the . lines of this character drawing 
were soft and agreeableone quite 
sympathized with Mr. Harry Spreadbrows (Mr. Colvin Clements) undy
ing devotion to such a lovely crea
ture. Mr. Clements made a very fav
orable impression in this performance, 
his first appearance on Design stage. 
He is physically fiit and mentally 
alert to the niceness of a situation, 
having caught the spirit of the charac
ter in its two extremes. One likes 
Mr. Clements because he was natural 
and exploiting his art rather than him
self. Miss Beck has this same happy 
faculty.
Mr. George Traberts Wilcox, the 
Gardener, was a very interesting 
character sketchwith a quaint hu
mor, held cleverly in check, so as not 
to direct attention from the principal 
roles. The temptation to overdo this 
type of character is irresistible to 
most: actorswhich makes his re
straint noticeable and praiseworthy.
Miss Donnelleys "Ruth, a Maidser
vant, completed this very . capable 
cast.
If the stage settings were reminis
cent, they were not less charmingfor 
some things, like some men, may be 
put to multitudinous uses. The play 
was under the direction of Mr. T. B. 
Beatty.
MANY IMPORTANT TOPICS DISCUSSED AT ASSEMBLY
administration, he said, to secure, paid 
military officers, and men to supple
ment the drill with lectures. What 
most pleased his audience was the 
statement that the ho.HVs of drill will 
be placed between S:30 and 4:30, and 
not necessitate the sacrifice of any 
extra time on the part of the student.
The students heard Coach Steffen 
speak for the last time this year, when 
he gave his usual interesting football 
talk before the Pitt.game. Mental 
courage overcomes physical handi
cap, ho said, in speaking of Techs 
chances against the much more ex
perienced and heavier team from 
across the hollow, and the boys cer
tainly displayed their faith in the 
truth of this statement when they 
battled on Forbes Field last Saturday.
Several important announcements 
of interest to the student body were 
made by Dean Mott and Mr. Soule. 
Dean Mott announced that plans are 
under way for a "book and magazine 
campaign in the interest of the sol
diers in our military camps. He also 
announced the probability of a benefit 
performance to be given at the Pitt 
Theater for the 524 Tech men that are 
now in the nations service. This af
fair will probably not be held till after 
Christmas.
Mr. Soule formally announced for 
the Senior Class its withdrawal of the 
recent petition in regard to gymna
sium and military drill.
PITT SCORES'FOHR TOUCHDOWNS 
AGAINST IMPROVED TECH ELEVEN
The work to be done at Carnegie 
Tech for the interest of the Y. M. C. 
A. was outlined by Mr. James C. 
Mace, associate secretary of the Cen
tral Branch of that organization in 
this city, when he spoke to the stu
dents of the Science School last Wed
nesday morning. Vividly describing 
the horrors of this war, both physical 
and moral, and depicting the sound 
moral conditions made possible by 
the Y. M. C. A. in American- and 
European military camps, Mr. Mace 
earnestly requested the hearty co
operation of all Tech students in the 
present Y. M. C. A. campaign. He em
phasized the fact that perhaps many 
of those in the audience would soon 
be deriving the benefits of this organ
ization and felt confident that Tech, 
workers would be successful in rais
ing the $15,000 that our school is 
asked/ to contribute to this worthy 
cause.
Other speakers at this meeting were 
Dean Mott, Professor Keller, Coach 
Steffen and President Soule, who was 
chairman. Professor Keller's speech 
was introductory to the distribution 
of ballots on which each student was 
to express his desire either for mili
tary drill or for setting up exercises, 
in his usual hale and hearty manner 
he professor, who had been intro
duced as the adjutant general of 
Tech by Dean Mott, urged the unanmous approval of military drill by the 
tudents. T-Ie promised that the poor 
.esults of last years drill would not 
je duplicated. It is the plan of the
(Continued From Page One.) 
was remarkable for a man of his 
weight. Carey played his usual con
sistent. game. Gretzler at center pass
ed well and brought a number of the 
longer runs of the Pitt backfield to 
a conclusion.
The backfield tackled hard on the 
defensive which had previously been 
their principal failing. Ginn dropped 
McLaren time after timg. He made 
several nice jine gains, but. the line 
was so outweighed that this line of 
attack was cut off. Bloom ran the 
team well, tackled well and was able 
to squirm through the line for good 
gains. In the last period he did this 
on one occasion for eight yards and 
first down. Lynn punted well and al
so carried the ball successfully. His 
eleven yard dash off-tackle being the 
longest run by a Tech man during the 
game. Earley and Alexander had lit
tle opportunity to carry the ball, but 
checked the Pitt runners time after 
time. The injury of Earlys knee was 
quite unfortunate. It: forced his re
moval from the field to the West Penn 
Hospital.
The Pitt team came on the field with 
their mascot, a bull pup, at two-fortyfive. Two teams went through signal 
practice. McFeaters led the Plaid 
squad on a few minutes later amid 
the applause of the bleachers. "Mac 
won the toss and elected to defend 
the north goal,
First Quarter.
Sles kicked off to Ginn on the 10- 
yard line. He brought it. back to the 
25-yard lino. Lynn failed to gain at. 
right tackle; he again failed at the 
samo place. Tech was penalized for j 
an offsido play. Running from a back 
formation Bloom, lost five yards. Lynn 
punted forty-four yards to Gougler, 
who was tackled by Jones for no runback. Gougler gained a yard at right 
end. McCarter double passed to Mc
Laren for no gain. McLaron punted 
out of bounds on Techs 17-yard line.
Ginn got two yards through center. 
Early added another through center. 
Bloom went wide on an end run and I 
got a yard. Lynn kicked to the Pitt.i 
20-yard line and the ball rolled over. ( 
Pitt: took the ball on the 20-yard line. J
McLaren fumbled and Harrington1 
regained it. McClelland dropped a pass I 
but recovered. On the same play Tech 
was penalized for offside. McCarter 
ran 11 yards around end, being thrown 1 
by Jones. Gougler turned Techs left, j 
end to the 43-yard line where he was 1 
tackled by Gretzler. McLaren went 
one yard out of bounds. Both teams 
were offside on the next play. Mc
Laren double passed to McCartev for 
a five-yard advantage. McLaren tore 
through right tackle for four yards 
and first down. McCarter smashed 
left end for two yards, Fox throwing 
Kim. McLaren plowed left guard for 
three yards. Gougler smashed left
Guard for four yards. Gougler hit 
right flank for first down.
McLarens double pass to Gougler 
fizzled. McLaren went through left 
guard for two yards. McCarter sprint
ed around left end for six yards. The 
ball was on the 11-yard line and Pitts 
first down. McLaren cracked right
guard for three yards. McCarter add
ed two more at left end. McLaren
made four yards at left tackle. Mc
Carter tore around left end for Pitts 
first touchdown. Gougler kicked goal. 
ScorePitt 7, Tech 0.
Sies kicked off to Blooni, who was 
downed by Sutherland. Ginn got a 
yard at left guard.'Early flunked at 
left guard, Bloom squirmed eight yards 
through the Pitt line. Lynn kickod -to 
Gougler, who was downed In his 
tracks. Gretzler made the tackle. Ear
ly was hurt on the play and was forced 
to retire. Alexander took his place. 
The quarter ended. ScorePitt 7, 
Tech 0.
Second Quarter.
McLaren hit left end for an 1.8-yard 
gain. McCarter tore off three yards 
at center. McCarters double pass on 
Gougler was fumbled and Lynn recov
ered. On the next play Lynn made 11 
yards around Pitt's left end. Lynn's 
forward was intercepted by McClel
land. Gougler got a yard through 
right tackle, Ginn throwing him. Mc
Laren made three ' yards and then 
louble passed to Gougler for Pitts
first down. McCarter zigzaged for a 
gain of 11 yards. McLaren hit. center 
for two yards. McLaren tore through 
right tackle for three more yards. 
McLarens double pass to McCarter 
made it first down on Tech 24-yard 
line, Williams tackling him. McLaren 
made three yards at right tackle. Mc
Larens double pass to McCarter got 
five yards. McLaren was stopped at 
right tackle by Fox.
The ball was on Techs 15-yard line. 
McLaren made it first down on Techs 
12-yard line. McLaren double passed 
to McCarter and got three yards. Mc
Larens double pass to Gougler annex
ed five yards. McLarens double pass 
to McCarter failed. Gougler hit left 
end for a. yard. McCarter made it first 
down. McLaren carried it to the goal 
line and then Gougler carried it. over. 
Gougler kicked goal. ScorePitt 1,4. 
Tech 0.
Sies kicked off out of bounds and the 
ball was brought, back. He again kick
ed and the ball laiule'd in Lynns 
hands on Techs eight-yard line. He 
brought it to the 14-yard line. Bloom 
was smeared at right end. Ginn got 
five yards on a delayed pass. Bloom 
barely ma^le a yard at left end. Lynn 
kicked from the 15-yard line to Pitts 
48-yard out of bounds. McLarens 
double pass to Gougler made five 
yards. Gougler got nothing on the 
next play. Gouglers forward to Mc
Carter got 15 yards. McCarters pass 
to Allshouse failed. The whistle blew 
and the half ended. ScorePitt 14, 
Tech 0. 
Third Quarter. ,
Gretzler kicked off to McLaren to 
the 11-yard line and the ball was ad
vanced to midfield, but Pitt was penal
ized. McLaren made a. yard at right 
guard. Easterday failed at left end. 
Easterday fumbled a pass and was 
>dropped for a five-yard loss. McLaren 
kicked to Bloom on the 40-yard line. 
A double pass to Bloom lost, four yards. 
Bloom was necked by Sutherland for 
no gain. Ginn failed at center. Lynn 
kicked to Gougler, who was downed 
by Williams. McLaren fumbled and 
Gougler recovered on the 15-yard line. 
Gougler lost a yard at right end. Pitt 
was offside and drew a penalty. Goug
ler made six yards at left end. Easter
day kicked from the five-yard line to 
Lynn who fumbled and Pitt recovered.
Gougler turned the left end for two 
yards. Gougler tore off six yards at 
left end. McLaren kicked out of 
bounds on Techs four-yard lino. Lynn 
kicked to Easterday, who fumbled and 
Jones recovered for the Plaid. The 
ball was on the 3G-yard line. Blooni 
Tailed at right end and lost three yards. 
McLaren downed Lynn at left end for 
no gain. An attempt at left guard 
failed to get Bloom any gain. Lynn 
kicked to Gouglor, who ran It back 
four yards.
Easterday got two yards at left end. 
McLaren oponod a five-yard hole at 
left tackle. McLaron ropoated for first 
down on the Tech 43-yard line. A 
double pass, McLaren to Gougler, net
ted Pitt 11 yards, ISastordny hit loft 
end for four yards. McLaren smash
ed through tackle for 17 yards. Goug
ler was stopped for no gain at right 
end. McLaren's double pass to Easter
day got four yards. McLaren added 
four more at right tackle. Easterday 
made it first down at left end. Mc
Laren carried the ball over for Pitts 
third touchdown. Gougler missed goal 
from a bad angle. ScorePitt. 20,
Tech 0.
Gougler kicked to Alexander on I in* 
six-yard line. Ho carried If to the 26- 
yard line. Harrington was hurt but 
resumed pluj^ ScorePitt. 20, Tech 0.
Fourth Quarter.
Bloom Avas stopped for a three-yard 
loss. Lynn was smeared by Stahl for 
a seven-yard loss. Alexander hit the 
left side for live yards. Lynn kicked 
to Gougler, who went out of bounds 
for a 10-yard gain. Gougler ran two 
more yards on the next play. McLaren 
got three more and then made it first 
down. Easterday ran from the 45-yard 
line to the five-yard 'line. McLaren 
got. another yard. Easterday took the 
ball over for Pitt's fourth touchdown. 
Gougler kicked goal. ScorePitt 27, 
Tech 0.
Gretzler kicked off to Easterday on 
the two-yard line. He ran the ball (2 
yards. Easterday got two around left 
end. McLaren hit left tackle for three 
yards. McLaren's double pass to 
Coupler got two yards. McLaren add
ed three more yards through center. 
Gougler hit right end for one yard. 
McLarens attempted double pass was 
smeared for a nine-vard loss. McLaren 
to Easterday to Gougler got 18 yards, 
but Pitt was in mid field. Gouglers 
forward was broken up by Fox. Mc
Laren kicked to Bloom, who was 
downed for no gain on the six-yard 
line. On a fake pass Tech failed to 
gain. Lynn was stopped at right 
guard. Lynn kicked out of bounds to 
the 34-vard line. Captain Carlson en
tered the game and took Harringtons 
place. Pitt was penalized 15 yards 
for running into the kicker. Bloom 
rammed through right end for eight 
yards.
Ginn failed at center. Bloom hit 
right guard for first down. Tech fum
bled and Bloom recovered. I-Tenry 
went in for Carlson. Sutherland bursted through and nailed Blooni for a 
four-yard loss. Ginn squirmed through 
right guard for four yards. Lynn 
kicked off to Easterday on the 40*yard 
line. The whistle blew and the game 
ended. ScorePitt 27, Tech 0.
The lineup:
Pltt27. Tech0.
Harrington..........L. E............. Wagner
Pearlman............L. T....... McFeaters
Sutherland.........L. G................ Carey
Stahl......................C................ Gretzler
Sies.....................R. G................ Tones
Seidel..................R. T.................... Ifox
R. Allshouse... .R. E.......... Williams
McClelland..........Q. B................ Bloom
Gougler............L. I-I................. Lynn
McCarter............R. II................. Early
TUFHY,
The Personal Writing Machine 
So simple In construction 
and operation that any
one can use it without 
previous experience. : :
WEIGHS 6 POUNDS 
Price $50
Call 343 Court or Write
Standard Typewriter Co.
129 FIFTH AVENUE 
FREE DEMONSTRATION 
OPEN EVENINGS
llllllllllllllilllM
p] Bell Phone 3465 Grant. [|
| J. G. Marshall 
Company
};! OFFICE, SCHOOL AND
I LIBRARY FURNITURE
959 LIBERTY AVENUE 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
iai
00IEliaiSfl3f3| liifoll iiifiilj iiU PIB nu o!J ei] iiiJiiU [iileiJ iiU
Liberty Show 
Print
PHIPPS POWER BUILDING 
Duquesno Way and Fifth Avo. 
PITTSBURGH
Ijiyin/eijQij^f^nnrr^r^ffnffnfTnroi/rnnPfrnrinrTiin^rsiriiir^frtijT^y^
SCHENLEY EATS "
A good place to get a good meal.
Meet your friends here on 
Sunday evening.
FRED SUDDEBY, Proprietor. 
CRAIG AND FORBES
i o1 fljillil!/!l!fill/01 QUHI Ej i J liiJ oil Jii ftn/iiiniylIiiySi/R
fa
i:OAKLAND 
HARDWARE CO.
HARDWARE AND 
HOUSE-FURNISHING GOODS 
3606 FORBES STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
1 a
Our convenient location in Oakland 
enables us to give you excellent serv
ice. Cleaning and pressing done on 
short notice. Special service to fraternities and rooming houses. Let us 
have a trial order. Call Schenley 875, 
J. E. T. SHUMAN 
3911 Forbes Street
| WEBER EXPRESS AND |j 
STORAGE COMPANY 
Bell Phone 239 Schenley. j|j 
I] Moving, Packing and Storing 
of Furniture and Pianos. Gen- Jj
eral Hauling Baggage to and [3 
H from Depots.
4616-18-20 HENRY STREET 0 
PITTSBURGH
i p.*]MSdRNRN1N1.1NRN1NRdvLNOINRNRN1Ners1
TYPEWRITERS 
RENTED 
i Late models. 
Three months for 
$7.00. Special 
rates to students. 
Guaranteed Fac
tory Rebuilt Ma
chines.
American Wriflno RflEchine 
Company
630 PENN AVENUE 
Bell Phone Grant 1374 
Special Monarch Visible, 3 mo, $5.
McLaren............F. B................... Ginn
SubstitutionsFor Pitt, Carlson for 
Harrington, Henry for Carlson, Stan
ford for Sies, Easterday for McCarter, 
For Tech- Alexander for Early.
Touchdowns  McCarter, Gougler, 
McLaren, Easterday. Goals from 
touchdownsGougher 3. Referee 
McFarland, W. & J. UmpireHam- ^ 
mond, Michigan. Head linesnr^ 
Daugherty, W. & J. ,

---------------------------------------------------

Hpni^
.LLnesday, Noveiuber 21, la.jtTAN
of 20 to 0. Brandin, Hoban and Faville : 
scored the touchdown while DlckinHon kicked two out of three goals. He 
rP considered the individual .star of 
the game, playing best for the Mechan
icals, while Mills starred for the 
Civils. Gare, who played center for 
the Reserve team all season was of 
great value to the Mechanics both in 
defense and offense.
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON
SHOES AND HOSIERY PENN AND FRflNKSTOWN 
Footprints Lead to Detection
I THE DANSANT
On Friday evening, November 16, 
the . Sophomore class of the Margaret 
Morrison school entertained the Senior 
class with a dance in the Recreation 
Hall. Miss Parry, Miss Sibley, and 
Miss Weber were the chaperons. By 
eliminating refreshments and decora
tions the Sophomores were able to 
give $17 to the Seniors for the Y. 
M. C. A. fund.
DUQUESNE GARDENBALL ROOM BEAUTIFUL
The standing of a man Is as ofte-i 
as not told by his footwearif he ?w 
careless of that, hes apt to be negli
gent of more important things. If 
you will buy your shoes here, you may 
be certain of looking all right, feeling 
all right and impressing others with 
the fact that you are all right. Our 
Shoes are built by some of the most 
representative Shoe Manufacturers in 
the world.
TUESDAY, THURSDAY AND SATURDAY EVENINGS9 TO 12:30
Direction of
MR. WILLIAM E. McCOY and MIS8 HELEN WITHUM
THANKSGIVING EVENING, THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 29
(From the Patriotic News Service, of 
the National Committee of Patri
otic Societies, Washington, D. C.)
When the call to national service 
arose, spirited young men everywhere 
of course wanted to be employed in a 
patriotic way, and I suppose there is 
scarcely a young man in any college 
in the country who has not very anx
iously addressed to himself the ques
tion: What can I do?
I think that there is no general an
swer to this question. Even in those 
cases where it would be obviously bet
ter for a young man to slay at college 
and prepare himself for later and ful
ler usefulness, yet if the young man 
in so doing acquires a low view of his 
own courage, and feels that he was 
electing the less worthy cause, the 
effect on the young man of that state 
>of mind toward his own actions prob
ably would be so prejudicial that it 
ought not to be encouraged.
To the extent that the men in col
leges are physically disqualified, or 
to the extent that they are too young 
to meet the requirements of the de
partment, it seems quite clear that in 
the present state of the,, emergency 
their major usefulness lies in remain
ing in the college, going forward with 
their academic work. The knowledge 
that the students will acquire at col
lege will equip them for subsequent 
usefulness if the emergency lasts un
til their call comes.
But we do not want to chill enthusi
asm. We want to preserve enthusi
asm and cultivate it and use it; but 
we do want to be discriminating in 
our enthusiasm, and prevent people 
getting the notion that they are not 
helping the country unless they do 
something different, which very often 
is not the case at all. The largest 
usefulness may come from doing the 
sKme thing. Now, it is not unnatural 
that there should be these ebullitions 
of feeling, this desire to change occu
pation as a badge of changed service 
and devotion to ideals. Our colleges 
can exercise a steadying' influence in 
tliis regard.
We are going to have losses on the 
sea; we are going to have losses in 
battle; our communities are going to 
bo subjected to the rigid discipline of 
multiplied personal griefs scattered all 
through the community, and we are 
going to search the cause of those 
back to their foundation, and our feel
ings are going to be torn and our 
nerves made raw. There is a place 
for physicians of public opinion to ex
ercise n curative impulse. The young 
men who are in our colleges, who go 
lo their homes from our colleges and 
make up a very large part of the di
rection of public opinion, can exercise 
i. curative influence by preaching the 
doctrine of tolerance, by exemplify
ing the fact that it is not necessary 
for a nation like the United States, 
which is fighting for the vindication 
of a great ideal, to discolor its pur
poses by hatred or by the entertain
ment of any unworthy emotion.
Pitt and Penn State Night
Big Football EventSpecial Features
Lieut. James C. Sawders was com
missioned first lieutenant in the Ord
nance Officers Reserve Corps, June 4, 
1917, and is now stationed, as ranking 
first lieutenant, with the Poisonous 
Gas Defense, at the American Univer
sity Camp, Washington, D. C. Lieut. 
Sawders is a graduate of the Chem
ical Engineering Department, class of 
1916.
Since graduation, Lieut. Sawders 
has been stationed at Akron, as a re
search chemist for the Goodyear Tire 
and Rubber Company. He resigned 
his position as assistant director of 
research there to take up his duties 
at Washington.
iiiniiiiiiiiitiiiiitiiiiiiiiiii'iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiKiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiM
Oakland Savings & Trust Co.
THE OAKLAND BANK
CAPITAL,.........................................................................$200,000.00 j
SURPLUS,........................................................................$200,000.00 j
DEPOSITS OVER $3,000,000.00DRTMi10 PENCIL
Mr. Carnegies eighty-second birth
day will be observed this year by the 
production in Carnegie Music Hall, on 
Sunday evening, November 25, of the 
patriotic pageant, "The Drawing of the 
Sword, together with an elaborate 
prologue not previously given in Pitts
burgh, written by Professor Thomas 
Wood Stevens of the Department of 
Dramatic Arts. It will be presented 
by the students of the department, as
sisted by groups obtained from other 
departments in the school, with the 
symphony orchestra of the Music De
partment, operating under the direc
tion of Professor OBrien.
This pageant has been selected for 
the Carnegie Day exercises both be
cause of its patriotic importance at 
tiiis time and for its particular bene
fit of the new day students, and of the 
night students who had no opportunity 
of witnessing it last spring. Its pre
sentation here is by permission of the 
American Red Cross Society. Miss 
Lucy Barton, who takes the part of 
Truth is the official representative 
of the Red Cross Society. Miss Bar
ton is one of the three graduates from 
the Department of Dramatic Arts, last 
June.
In order to properly present the 
groups in the various episodes, Mr. 
Stevens finds that he will require at 
least 20 more men and 16 more wom
en. Will all students who can spare 
the time and are willing to help, kind
ly communicate immediately with Mr. 
Stevens or Mr. Beatty of the Depart
ment of Dramatic Arts?
Following is the cast of The Draw
ing of the Sword.
Herald ............. Marguerite Bollinger
Truth ...............................Lucy Barton
Liberty ................................Anna Dice
Justice ........................James S. Church
Sorvla....................C. Frederick Steen
Belgium ..............Dorothy Rubenstein
England ..............Richard Mansfield II
France ...................................Eula Guy
I in poiiiil Russia. ...Theodore Viehmnn
Canada.........................Bishop Dickinson
India,..........................Alex L. Buchanan
Australia....Howard F. Smith
Japan ..................William F. Mulligan
Armenia ..........................Mary Rlcards
Italy ..............................Norwood Engle
Poland ...............................Hazel Bock
.Portugal .....................William Strauer
ltounmnla.......................George Trabert:
New Russia.......................Ellen Crowe
America ..................Vlolanto Bollinger
The prologue episodes begin with a 
festival scene representing the dedi
cation by the Genius of Enlightenment 
of the altar of peace. This will bo
produced under (lie stage manage
ment of Miss Bronwon Chubb, by the 
Plebe class.
Following this will be the Flemish 
episode, under the stage-nmnagoment 
of Mr. Steen by the night students.
The Italian episode comes next. It 
will be produced under the stage man
agement of Miss Alicia Guthrie, by 
day students.
The English episode is fourth. It 
will. be given by the night students 
under direction of Mr. Steen.
Mr. Beatty will direct the Russian 
episode and Mr. Howard Smith is 
stage manager for the French episode.
The faculty and students will be ad
mitted only by cards of admission, 
which may be obtained at the Regis
ters office in the Central Building.
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENTTil E perfection of pencil! 
quality  un-| 
equalled for 
smoothness, uni
formity of grading 
and durability.
17 black degrees 
from 6B softest to 
to 9H hardest, and 
hard and medium 
(indelible) copy
ing.
Look for the distinc
tive VENUS finish!
A National Institution
Browning, King I Company
CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS AND HATS FOR 
MEN, BOYS AND CHILDREN 
439-441 WOOD STREET
A council composed of the House 
presidents of the girls dormitories, 
Lula Fuller, Hilda Cooper and Callie 
Hunter, and three Design School sen
ators, lias been formed. When a De
sign girl breaks a rule in the Dorm 
or in M. M. building, the matter is 
brought before this council which de
cides and enforces the penalty. If the 
breach happens in the dormitory, the 
dormitory Student Govt, decides on 
the penalty but the council must ap
prove before it is inflicted.
111!!
Thlo trial box 
with five VENUS 
Drawing Pencils. 
Holder n il d 
VENUS Ernncr 
went free. Write 
for it.
GROCERIES TOBACCO
Patronize Home Industry
CANDYLUNCHES
Woodlawn Avenue. 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiH
American Lead Pcncil Co. 
217 Fifth Ave., N. Y. v 
Dept. W 27
Try the. VENUS Eraser, too. Made 
In IZa/ze.i. $2.00/jar ox.
A. ASLISTailor
Maker of fine clothes. Cleaning and pressing, a
g MODERATE PRICES '
| 120 MEYRAN AVENUE 4692-R Schenley li
i OAKLAND PHny La

McDOUGALLS DANCING- CLASSES |
SHADY AND PENNDANCES MONDAY, THURSDAY, SATURDAY ffi
4616 FORBES STREETFRIDAY EVENINGS b
Private Lessons and Beginners Classes every day and evening. ||
Jazz Fox Trot Ramble Waltz Mirimba Orchestra [3
raTOfHingfpingngfpiipingfig^f^fpfijfQifiajigfg^gfigjgfgfgfgjgfgjgjgjgfgfgjgjgfgjgfgfgjgfgfgfgfgjigjgjgjg^fgjgjigfgjgj;
JUNIOR LUNCHEON
Mnnv
Style 
of Type 
and Mnny 
Language*
? The Junior Class of M. M. C. S. *
? will give a luncheon on Saturady, 4*
? Nov. 24 at McCreerys in honor 4* 
of Miss Browning, who is the ?
*1 honorary member of the Junior 
fr class. 4*
A Typewriter Exceptional
For THrConittttP 
Change your typo in an iiinlant from one 
atylo to anotheror any language.
THEMULTIPLEX
HAMMONDTHE THBOSHL : CIGARETTE
Two hI8 of type in each mnchinc. 
"Jmt Turn tlin Knnli an or llir ollinr.SlinploCoinpaoiPortoblo
Umitiful work beyond comnarc. 
if not' Inclined to n new mnchinc, 
inquire lor our Factory Rebuilt n.
We Rant Machine of high quality. 
Putronn: Proiddont Woodrow Wilson Cardinal Merry del Val Dr. Alexander Graham Hell Chancellor Kev. U. C. Trout Hlnhop John G. Murray William Dean Mowollit also all Collejier. and Universities 
Our special terms to collegian will 
interest you. Catalog for llie asking.
Hammond Typewriter Co.
545 Emit <*!Hl> Stroot Ua1 i> Now York Cily.N. Y.
BESSEMER BLOG., PITTSBURGH
ss TENS AND 
a TWENTIESNot by accident is Murad 
the greatest selling cigarette in 
America.
SOMETHING did it. What?
Goodnessthats all. Unchang
ing, unmistakable, inimitable, irresist
ible, Goodness.
For further particulars
The Plebesvof Design School on No
vember 14, gave a smoker for the Up
per Classmen. The affair was a great 
success. The Plebes furnished the 
best of cigarettes and tobies, with 
cakes, pretzels and punch to ease that 
dissatisfied gastronomic feeling. E. 
A. Kelly, president of the Plebe class, 
presided over the following program:
Latest News from the Court of Bul
garia, Chas. M. Stotz.
Address by Mr. Tinker, of the Y. 
M. C. A.
A Wrestling Match by W. O. 
ORourke and C. Ono.
A Speech, entitled Duty and Play, 
by Mr. Henry Hornbostel, Patron of 
the Design School.
Songs by Rank and Olson.
Address by Dean Bossange.
Star-Spangled Banner.
The Architectural Department Jazz 
Band appeared now and then with 
telling effect.
Mr. Ellington, Mr. Sternfeldt, Mr. 
Hitchens and Mr. Mooreliead, profes
sors of Architecture, were present.
CAMERAPHONE
6200 PENN AVE.
QUO VADIS
The Burning of Rome 
Ursus Fight for Life
The Christian Martyrs 
Neros Palace
The Rescue of Lygia 
Chilo's Sacrifice 
ALL WEEK
GET YOUR HAIR CUT 
--------at the--------
Maker* of the Highest Grade Turkish 
and Egyptian Cigarettes in the World
REMEMBER.
Turkish tobacco is 
the worlds most 
famous tobacco for 
cigarettes.
Under the auspices of the College 
Club of Pittsburgh, there will be a 
mass meeting and rally of all college 
women in Pittsburgh, in the Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie School assembly 
room, Thursday, November 22nd, at 
three oclock. The meeting will be 
followed by an .informal tea and re
ception in the faculty parlors, at which 
the Bryn Mawr Club of Pittsburgh 
will be hostesses. - 
This meeting is in the interest of a 
proposed campaign of patriotic educa
tion. The speakers will include Miss 
M. j Carey Thomas, president of Bi yn 
Mawr College, and Mrs. Gertrude 
Shorb Martin of Cornell, General Sec
retary of the A. C. A.
The Mechanical Engineers football 
team completely overwhelmed the 
Civils in a contest ion Tech Field on 
Monday afternoon, ^Inning by a score
* There will be a meeting of the * 
4* Thistle Board in the M. M. C. S. * 
on Friday at 4:30. 
tl* 4. $ 'fr $ $plies .. 
cians. \
