BASEBALL 
AND TRACK EVERY 
DAY
VOL. XII. NO. 24Qlljr arlan
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA
BAND CONCERT 
AND DANCE 
THURSDAY
MARCH 27, 1918
ANNUAL BAND CONCERT AND DANCE TO BE GIVEN IN UNION TOMORROW
Concert ' From Eight to BASEBALL PROSPECTS
dng Fra APPEAR BASE LANEDTR
SULLY DIRECTS
The Annual Band Concert and 
Dance will be given in the Union 
 Thursday evening, March 28. The con
cert will start promptly at S oclock; 
dancing will begin at 9 and will con
tinue until 12. The only admission 
charged will be the "Band Concert 
and Dance ticket out of the Student 
Activities' book plus the small fee of 
twenty-five 'cents per Couple aiul five 
cents war tax. To those not holding 
student book the charge will be fifty 
ents and war tax. The dance music 
will be furnished by a very Jazzy. 
Jazz Band. This will be an informal 
affair and should in no way be con
fused with .the .Grand Military Ball 
which is also to be given under the 
auspices of the Band, but which will 
not takeplace until April 19.
"Sully and his band men deserve 
a little support Thursday night. Very 
few students realize the amount .of 
time and work given by the band men 
and what comparatively small reward 
they receive for their services. The 
band will soon be playing every day 
for military drill and that means much 
more 'hard work ahead. If the Tech 
baud is to retain the high standing 
which it now has, it must get better 
support from the students.
Show some of the old pep and 
attend the concert and dance, Thurs
day night. It will be an evening well 
spent.
LAST CALL ISSUED FOR 
PLAYERS AND MANAGERS
Within the last week Coach McCulloch has called out the candidates for 
the coming season and they are now 
hard at work on the diamond. The 
prospects look pretty good for having 
a team that is above the average. 
There is, nevertheless, room for a good 
many more than are now trying out 
and the management asks all men in 
the school who have had any experi
ence or who are willing to try out to 
come out on the field at once. At 
present practice is beii)g conducted 
at 4 oclock every afternoon and at 10 
oclock Saturday morning.
Any men who want to try out for the 
positions of assistant manager and 
second assistant manager should come 
out at once and report to Manager 
Todd or to Coach McCullocli.
At the present time, Kislcl, Bethany, 
Waynesburg and Hiram have been 
scheduled, and it is probable that the 
Collegians can be scheduled as in for
mer years. There is also a possibility 
of securing a game, or even two, with 
Westminster, which school has just 
lately decided to put a team in the 
field. The game that was contem
plated with the Michigan Aggies has 
fallen through because'of the inability 
of that team to secure other games in 
the neighborhood. The schedule will be 
unusually short this year because of 
the fact that the Science School closes 
May 10. The first game will be played 
April;20 and the last game will be with 
Bethany, May 11, on our own field.
The baseball schedule was aug
mented with the accepting by Hiram 
College of Techs offer. This makes a 
total of six games scheduled, with a 
game with another Ohio college pend
ing.
A week of out-of-door practice has 
been insufficient to give much indica
tion of the prospects for the coming 
baseball season. Although nineteen 
men have been reporting, which is a 
fairly good showing compared with the 
twelve men who reported at Bethany 
and similar small turnouts at the other 
schools, most of these men are green 
and Coach McCullocli is postponing 
making any definite assignments or 
selections until there are more, devel
opments. He is also hopeful that more 
men will be out next week, as there 
surely must be more men with some 
experience or ability at the game in a 
school of the size of Tech.
Captain Jimmy Doherty is a sure 
bet again this season. He is display
ing his old speed and ability in every 
department. . Gretzler and Lynn have 
been doing some work on the mound, 
but inasmuch as the weather has been 
cool, it is impossible at present to pre
dict anything relative to the. hurling 
staff. Ex-Captain Zelifuss is working 
behind the bat and is being understudied by Shumway and Levine, a 
Plebe who is showing fairly good pros
pects. Mauer is giving a good exhibi
tion at third base, where his speed 
has proven to be a remarkable asset. 
Ray Cosgrove, another of the veter
ans, is expected to be in uniform this 
week and will probably be shifted 
from the outfield to the infield. "Red 
Oakley and "Pat Hoban are new men 
so far as the diamond is concerned 
who are showing some form in the 
outer gardens.
CLOTHING SOLICITED 
FOR WAR SUFFERERS
SCIENCE CLUB ROOM 
NOW USED FOR WAR WORK
The administration of the Science 
School has decided to take over the 
student club room for war work. The 
buzzer apparatus formerly in rooms 
71 and 72, has been transferred to the 
club room so that those rooins may 
again be used by the larger depart
ment. The furniture from the club 
room has been stored in the Science 
building and the trophy case has been 
moved to the Union.
Acting on the request of the Coriimission for the Relief in Belgium, the 
American Red Cross has set aside the 
week from March, 18 to March 25 
ONLY, to collect a certain amount of 
used and surplus clothing to be used 
in connection with the relief work in 
occupied territory in France and Bel
gium.
To conduct the collection of this 
clothing in Allegheny county, file 
Pittsburgh Chapter has obtained the 
use of the building located at 917 Lib
erty avenue. A corps of workers, in 
charge of W. L. Elkins, will supervise 
the revision and inspection of any 
clothing left at this building.
All branches and auxiliaries are re
quested to bring this information to 
the notice of their members and urge 
them to' .bring or send to 917 Liberty 
avenue such clothing as they can col
lect, in conformity with the list of ac
ceptable articles herewith.
Kindly make it definitely understood 
that only such articles as listed will 
be accepted; that these articles should 
be in a fair state of repair, and above 
all, that no articles should be collected 
which have been exposed to any com
municable disease.
It is useless to send a garment which 
is not made of the strongest and most 
durable materials, as the clothes are 
subjected to the hardest kind of use.
All articles must be delivered by 
March 25. After that date the receiv
ing department at 917 Liberty avenue 
will be closed and no further articles 
will be accepted for shipment.
Persons associated with C. I. T. 
should bring all contributions to the 
Red Cross Room in the Design School.
? '
* NOMINATIONS *
* ---------- ?
4* Science Candidate. 4*
President of Student Council. *i*
* The folowing nominations have * 
been made from the class of 1919 ?
* for the Science candidate for
I* president of the Central Council. 4* 
*1* The man chosen by the three up- ? 
i* per classes of the Science School 1
* will be one of four, from among *
* whom the present Council will b 
chose the president of next year's *
* body. Election will be held at an ?
* assembly on Thursday. *
* Ellerton *
* Nuttal *
* Armor *
4* Bankwitz *
* Jurgens *
Faville *
* +
MR. GALPIN IS CALLED 
TO CAMP CUSTER, MICH.
Mr. Galpin of the general studies 
faculty at M. M. C. S. left Tuesday for 
his home in Muskegon, where he was 
called by the draft. Mr. Galpin will 
be sent from Muskegon to Camp Cus
ter in Battle Creek, Michigan.
DR. LEONARD BLAKEY 
LEAVES FOR WAR WORK
Dr. Leonard Blakey, who has for
merly been connected with the de| partment of commercial engineering, 
i has been granted a leave of absence 
| during the war. His departure came 
| about very suddenly and was quite a 
surprise to everyone. Dr. Blakey is 
I to work on labor statistics and in
vestigations for the government.
A GREAT NEED i 
BOOKS
for our
SOLDIERS AND SAILORS
Will the students in the Carnegie Institute ot Technology 
collect books during the week: of MARCH 25-30 and take 
them to the Carnegie Library for distribution to AVAR 
LIBRARY CENTERS?
MORE BOOKShundreds of thousands of themare 
needed for the War Service Libraries' maintained by the 
American Library Association at cantonments, training camps* 
posts, forts, naval stations, on vessels, and overseas.
Our Men Must Have These Books.
They want them.for their leisure hoursfor recreation 
and for study. Experience has proved that they are eager 
to read, and books must be provided.
What You Can Do.
You can pass on to the men in khaki the books you have 
enjoyed.
You can send novels, tales oil adventure, detective stories 
and standard fiction; up-to-date books on civil, mechanical 
and electrical engineering, the trades, business, the profes
sions and agriculture; recent text-books on military subjects, 
mathematics, the sciences, and foreign languages; books of 
travel, history, biography, poetry and the present war; dic
tionaries and new encyclopedias: interesting books in foreign 
| * languages.
WILL YOU HELP? g
 tH
HOME CONCERT PROVES 
AS SUCCESSFUL AS EVER
IPHIGENIA IN TAURUS 
PRODUCED BY PLEBES
Second Half of Program In- Work is Generally Unsatisferior to First, But Still Very factoiy, and Leaves Room 
Clever for Improvement
The Thirteenth Annual Home Concert 
of the Musical Clubs was given Thurs-.j 
day night in the Carnegie MUsic'Hall.' 
The stage was decorated with a large 
Carnegie banner and the cTTairs for 
the Mandolin Club were covered in 
white with a large C on the back.
A pleasing program had been ar
ranged and was carried out with the 
greatest of success. "The Sailors 
Chorus, by the Glee Club, and the 
"March of the Borsagllerl, by the 
Mandolin Club were especially well 
rendered.
Otto Olsens masterly singing of the 
solo, Bergens "Charge of 'the Light 
Brigade, was enthusiastically re
ceived, and he sang as an encore, 
"From the Land! of the Sky-Blue Wa
ters.
Two interesting features on the pro
gram were L. F. Weningers "Tech 
and "Strings, played by Cost, Sweeny 
and Ellerton. Their Hawaiian Music 
was as popular as ever. Tech, words 
and music by Weninger, deserves 
special mention; the Science Seniors 
are taking up this song since their 
senior banquet last Saturday.
Mr. La Mar.cas tenor solo was ex
cellent. His audience would not be 
satisfied until Mr. La Marca expressed 
himself as unable to sing more on ac
count of a severe cold.
Mr. Scalzo, director of the Mandolin 
Club, accompanied by Cost* on the 
guitar, played a solo on the mandolin 
by special request.
The second part of the program was, 
as a whole, inferior to the first. Al
though the sketch was clever, there 
were many parts which were over
drawn and the stage management was 
poor? The satire on the Pitt uniforms 
made a very evident hit with the audi
ence, but a second reference to, the 
matter.overdid it. Again, the colored 
porter and son was a direct imitation 
of the Zi^gfeld Follies. Not only was 
the idea the same, but also the cos
tumes and jokes were too obviously a 
plagarism. Nevertheless the whole 
idea of the sketch was clever, and cer
tainly more to be praised than cen
sured.
DRAMATIC CLUB STAGES 
HANSEL AND GRETEL
The Margaret -Morrison Dramaticj 
Club, under the direction of Miss I-Iil-! 
da Cooper, is dramatizing the fairy j 
story of Hansel and Gretel. The j 
play will be given once in April, at. j 
the school, and will then be taken] 
around to various institutions or chil
dren. Miss Dorothy Turkle will take 
the part of Gretel and Miss Helen 
Senn will bo Hansel. The part of 
Sandman will be taken by Miss Emily 
Kurtz, the Father by Miss Margaret 
Hollar and the Mother i by Salome 
Stamm. Miss Helen Clark will be 
the Witch. Twelve girls from the 
aesthetic dancing classes will be An
gels. twelve will be Playmates and 
eight will be Gingerbreads.
 BOKS ay evening, the Plebes of the 
Department of Drama presented Eu'Vipidis. "Ipliigenia iii Taurls, before 
a large audience. Gilbert Murrays 
rhymed translation was the text uesd. 
The play is too well known to need 
explanation and on this occaison met 
with all the vicissitudes attendant 
upon firsf nightslights that failed 
and uncertain liiies.
Miss Jane Zlegenfeldor's Ipliigenia 
had all the youthful Impetuosity of a 
"Juliet. Her reading of her linos was 
rather an original conception of the 
role of this priestess of Artemis.
Hugo Tautinos "Orestos was high
ly commendable, evincing a keen sonso 
of dramatic values. Ho came nearer 
to an ideal interpretation of a classic 
role than ony other member of the 
cast.
M. McAteer's Herdsman had more 
certainty both of Interpretation and of 
lines, than some other roles.
Howard McClenahan's "Pylades" 
friend of Oresteswas anomic. If his 
conception of the character is pecu
liarly his own, he should study it in a 
new light, or drop it; as it is, ho is 
unfortunately cast, both for himself 
and for Pylades.
The role of King Tlioas (N. E. La 
Marca) suffered greatly from his for
eign accent. His lines seemed to bring 
out every defect , which still clings to 
his English. This was most unfor
tunate, as no amount of histrionic 
talent could overcome this handicap in 
a play where so much depends upon 
the reading of the lines. He has the 
presence and the voice, but should be 
cast with fewer lines until he has mas
tered the language.
Another very interestinginterpreta
tion was J. M. Wolcott-s Messenger. 
The reading of his lines revealed dra
matic imagination and excited interest 
because of good diction and earnest 
delivery.
Carolyn McCampbell was unfor
tunately cast as Athenaher voice 
lacks authority. The way the goddess 
climbed upon the dais was suggestive 
of efforts of a rural stump-speaker;
| either the spotlight was early or the 
i goddess was latebut Athena usually 
does things her own way, so legend rej lates.
j Miss Harriet Klamroth, as leader of 
the Greek chorus, has a voice of very 
j agreeable timbre. Her excellent dici (Continued on Page Three.)
W.S.S.
BY M.M.C.S. CHAPTER
The Mary Breed War Savings 
Stamp Chapter started its big drive 
during the last week. Miss Helen 
Senn, as chairman of the chapter, 
has divided the girls of the school 
into teams, with a captain at the head 
of each team. Each girl on the tean! 
is give.n ten stamps a week to sell. 
At the close of each month the names 
of the girls selling the most stamps 
will be published in The Tartan.
TECH MILITARY BALL PROCEEDSWILL HELP WORK OF RED CROSS
SPRING, DESIGN 18,
DIES AT CAMP AVRES
Robert W. Spring, who enlisted in 
the artillery and left just two weeks 
ago for Camp Devon in Massachusetts, 
died suddenly on Sunday, after an 
acute attack of pneumonia. Bob 
was a member of the Design IS Class, 
but left school and decided to work 
for a year. He had been wanting to 
enlist, ever since leaving school, and 
finally was enrolled as a private in the 
artillery. Two weeks ago, when, he 
said good-bye to his friends, he was in 
the best of health. He was first sent 
East, where he fell ill, and the further 
trip north proved too much for him in 
his weakened condition. I-Ie died at 2 
o'clock Sunday morning.
He is survived by his mother, Mrs. 
Douthett, his step-father, Dr. Doutliett, 
and his sister, Katherine Spring. I-Ie 
was a member of the Delta Upsilon 
Fraternity, and to his fraternity 
brothers as well as his classmates his 
loss will be most keenly felt. The 
funeral will be held at 4:00 oclock this 
afternoon, the members of his frater
nity who knew him best acting as pall
bearers. ,
THRIFT STAMP IS PRIZE 
AT KNITTING PARTY
On Saturday afternoon, the Senior 
class entertained for Miss Parry, their 
honorary member. The affair was a 
Pi-ogressive Knitting Party" in the 
M. VI. C. S. faculty parlors. To keep 
the knitters, at top knotch, a prize 
was given to the one progressing most 
rapidly. Miss Swnrtoul; won out and 
was rewarded by a twenty-five cent 
Thrift 'Stamp.
THRIFT CLUB ORGANIZED 
BY STUDENTS AT CASE
A thrift club has been organized at 
Case Tech for the purpose of urging 
students to invest In Thrift Stamps. 
Those who will aro aslcod to sign an 
agreemont1 to cut out unnecessary 
spending and to report twice a month, 
to their corporal, TheHAR In turn, reports 
to the supply sergoant, In charge of 
the work for the company. Prizes 
have been offered to the squad having 
the highest average saving per man 
for the month of March.
Case students aro asked to lend 
drawing instruments for uso of en
listed men who are sent thero for 
technical training.
ZETA LAMBDA-S. A. E. 
JOINT DANCE A SUCCESS
A joint dance, including the Pitt 
Chapter of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, and 
Zeta. Lambda Epsilon, was held last 
night at the Hotel Schenley, about 
seventy-five couples being present. 
The varied program was effectively 
rendered by Reihl's Orchestra
The magnificent ballroom of the 
Schenley was strikingly and effective
ly decorated with the colors, pennants 
and banners of the two fraternities 
and their respective schools.
The affair ended at about 1:00 
oclock and all present enthusiastically 
voted it the best ever.
JUNIORS OFM.M.C.S. 
PRESENT AMUSING PLAY
Tuesday noon the Margaret Morri
son Juniors showed tlifemfcelves to be 
capable entertainers by presenting an 
amusing take off en.titeld "Mr.s.,.Jarleys Wax Works. Bernice Kruger, 
Dorothy Davis, Helen Sayard, Mar
garet ,Hollar, Phyllis McMarlin and 
Sara Gorzo represented different in
structors and gave such realistic imi
tations of the little eccentrictles of 
these instructors that every one knew 
who was meant.
The Juniors deserve a great deal of 
praise for this little entertainment, 
and their large audience thoroughly 
appreciated their efforts.
Affair to be in U niform atSchenley. Colonel Brooks and 
Major Lyle to be Present
CABARET SUGGESTED
Something is going to happen at 
Techsomething different! And in 
these serious days anything "different' 
should be welcomed gladly. And the 
unusual event is to be a step in the 
social history of Tech, quite iii keep
ing with the new life at Tech, AND 
every bit of mojiey and energy put into 
the affair will Nbe a knock at Kaiser 
Bill.
On April 19. at the Hotel Schenley, 
Techs first formal Military Ball will 
take place. This event, under the aus
pices of the band, will be one of the 
most interesting social events of 
Techs history. It is to include Tech 
students, alumni, faculty, board of di
rectors, trustees and close friendsThe atmosphere of the whole affair is 
to be military. Every day student at
tending will be required to attend in 
uniform and there will bo many oth
ers present from various units of the 
service. 'Since night students have 
not been compelled to purchase uni
forms they do not. come under this 
requirement, but will bo welcomed at 
the ball.
The music will be in charge of Mr. 
George McNewry. Thero will bo an 
orchestra of eight piecesthe best in 
Pittsburgh. Music will begin at S:30 
and promptly at 9i00 p. m the grand 
march will begin. This will bo more 
(Continued on Pago Three)
500 MORE MEN ASSIGNED 
TO TECH FOR TRAINING
Drafted men from four statesIlli
nois, Iowa, Indiana and Minnesota 
will bo called boLwoon April 7 and 28 
to technical schools, for training in. 
specialized branches of modern war
fare.
It will be the Initial mobilization 
under Provost Marshal General Crow
ders plan to greatly Increase the num
ber of skilled mechanics In the army. 
The first schools will bo for signal 
corps men. The exact number to bo 
called during the month has not boon 
determined,
The nion will he musterod Into the 
service just as the regular soldlors 
are, after haying been selected' be
cause of their qualifications by local 
boards. All Lhoso sent to the schools 
must have a grammar school educa
tion. in connection with the special
ized work, It Is planned to have one 
hour of military drill a day for the men 
and after tholr schooling lsbvor thoy 
will be. sont to a camp to be whipped 
Into shape for service In France.
Carnegie Tech will accommodate 
500 men, while 330 will bo sent Io Pitt.
SALE OF STRAWBERRIES 
WILL BENEFIT ORPHANS
Strawberries are In the market for 
a cent a piece! That's cheap, too, fori 
the money goes to the War OrphaiVs, 
and if enough are sold, they will 
bring happiness to France. At M. M. 
C. S. of late, War Savings Stamps 
have been pretty keen competitors 
with French orphans, and goodness 
only knows what would llave happen
ed had not Miss Barbara Endres and 
Miss Harriet Stone saved the day with 
strawberries. If you dont believe 
it, stop into M. M. C. S. any noon 
when you may see them and eat them 
too, that is if you have one cent, ajid 
iti theyre not all gone before you get 
there.
CIVILS WILL REAR TALK 
ON SCIOTOVILLE DD1DGE
I *! *1 * 4* * *1* * * * * * * * * * * 
* *
* . LOST *
+ ---------- +
+ The Ga;nma Phi Fraternity I*
* pin, Initials U. C. S., Tuesday. * 
March 19. Please return to Do- +
* sign office. Reward offered. + 
* ** + * + * + + + + + '** + * + '1'*
A regular meeting of the Civil and 
Sanitary Engineering Society will be 
held in room 55, of the Science School 
on Wednosday,  March 27, 1918,at 
7:30 p. m. The meeting promises; to 
be a very, interesting one, for Mr., C. 
B. Pyle, field engineer of the McCjintock-Marshall Co.,.will give an Illus
trated lecture on The Ejection pf [lie 
Sclotovllle Bridge. The ScioLoville 
Bridge of the Chesapeake and Ohio 
Northern Railway, crosses the Ohio 
river,, ft is, a two-span continuous 
truss, and Is of record size, bolng 775 
feet long.
Very- many Interesting points con
nected with the bridge and Its erec
tion, will bo brought out by Mr. Pyle 
In his address. A short business 
meeting will precedo Mr. Pyles talk, 
and It is desired that every member 
come, and come promptly.
^

---------------------------------------------------

Page TwoHE TARTANWednesday, March 27, 1918.
(Hartan
Published every 
of Technology.
Wednesday by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute
Entered In the postoffice of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
Yearly, $1.50
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
5c the copyCanada, $1.75
Business Manager
Phone Grant 88831. 
Phone Schenley 220G-.7
Harold R. Titus
EDITORIAL
Acsistant Managing Editoro 
TheA Levin 
F. J. Smith 
School Editors
M. M. C. .S.Salome Stamm 
Design
Industries'W. D. Hall 
Science
NightJulius Foster
Athletic Editor 
H. H. Blau 
Staff Photographer 
William M. Myler, Jr.
M. M. C. S. Assistants 
Marguerite I-Ialdeman
Margaret Lappe 
Au ne McCandiass 
Lydia McCarthy 
Other Assistants 
Ellen Crowe 
A. A. Meinhold 
J. A. Bingham 
I. Slssman 
BUSINESS 
Advertising Manager 
Charles H. Todd
Assistant 
M. I. Cohen 
Circulation Manager* 
H. W. Anderson 
Assistant 
C. J. Livingstone___
TARTAN OFFICE.................................
Hours2:00 to 4:00 
4:30 to 5:00
.........................................................Room 162, Design
Mon days.
Wed nesdays and Thursdays.
The Editor-In-Chief Is responsible for the policy of this paper; the Man
aging Editor for the make up.
All business communications should ne sent 1o the Business Manager. 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported 
at once.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the'signature to be withheld if desired.
All news items must be in the student postdffice, Central Building, before 
noon on Mondays. 
IN MEMORIAM
The death of Robert W. Spring at Camp Devon came as a 
shock to the whole Institutethe whole Institute, because he was 
known to practically everyone who attended Carnegie last year 
and the two previous years, lie was as well liked as he was well 
knowncheerful, always smiling. He was one of the most active 
men in school, serving on the tennis team, as tennis manager, on 
the Junior Prom Committee, and as a member of the Delta Upsilon 
Fraternity.
To ns who remain it seems doubly hard that he should have 
been called before lie had time to complete to the end that duty 
which he saw so clearly before him. We can only know that in 
His sight our collegemates life was not passed in vainother
wise he would never have been so well liked, so universally popu
lar; he would never have been so persistent in his efforts to servo 
he would never have been so loyal.
The Register of Students for 1917-18 and the General In Dorma
ti on Bulletin for 1918-19 are now ready for distribution. Students 
desiring copies cun secure them it the Regislrnrs Office, Central 
Building.
The President,
Carnegie Institute of Technology,
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Sir :
deferring to the rejection because of physical disqualification 
of candidates 4-or enlistment in the Engineer Enlisted Reserve Corps, 
you are advised that it is not believed that a student who fails to 
pass tho physical examination need fenr being actually drawn in 
the draft. Tho physical requirements, however, are subject to 
change. Therefore, it is advised that students who are rejected 17 
tain their authomation card and present it at intervals to the Re
cruiting Oflleer. The student should also take the precaution of 
securing from the examining officer a certificate of disability. The 
certificate should be presented to the local hoard when it culls the 
registrant for examination und if the certificate is ignored by the 
local board, the paper should be preserved and presented to the 
proper oflleer at the mobilization camp.
Very respectfully,
(S) W. M. BLACK,
Major General, Chief of Engineers.
By A. O. Powell,
Major, Engineer Reserve Corps.
Gluttony is the source of all oui 
infirmities, and the fountain of all 
our disease. As a lamp is choked 
by a superabundance of oil, a fire 
extinguished by excess of fuel, so is 
the natural heat of the body de
stroyed by intemperate diet.Burton
For all true love is founded on es
teem,
Plainness and truth gain more a 
generous heart 
Than all the crooked subtleties of 
art. 
Duke of Buckingham.
Largest Jewelry Establishment in Pittsburgh
MEN IN THE SERVICE
Will be interested in our
CLKVY OSY.X OKXIL
A reliable timepiece with Walhtum 
movement - radium dial and hands, 
non-breakable, semi-darkened crystal, 
wrist; band of moisture-proof khaki.
$22.00 to $27.00
The HARDY & HAYES CO.
Wood St. at Oliver Ave. Pittsburgh
i.........1111 iiimnmunrriTH rrm ittiiti 111111111111111 m
CAMPAIGN IS STARTED 
TO SECURE FARM LABOR
The Department of Labor is inaug
urating a campaign, similar to the one 
of last year, to secure sufficient farm 
labor In order to increase tho agricul
tural production so vitally necessary 
to the national welfare during the war. 
The following circular letter has been 
issued by the Federal Director for 
Pennsylvania for that department:
To the Fraternal and Patriotic So
cieties, Clubs, and other Organiza
tions of Pennsylvania:
The serious shortage of farm labor 
threatens to reduce the agricultural 
production of Pennsylvania and other 
Eastern States at a time when in
creased production is vitally necessary 
to the national welfare. The U. S. 
Department of Labor, through its re
cruiting division, the United States 
Public Service Reserve, will therefore 
inaugurate on March 18, 1018, a two 
weeks drive to recruit farm labor, in 
which you are earnestly requested to 
co-operate. The time has been de
layed to that date because of the bad 
psychology of attempting to recruit 
farm workers In winter weather.
Under the United States Public Ser
vice Reserve will be enlisted men both 
with and without farm experience to 
serve on farms at prevailing wages. 
It is absolutely essential, however, to 
secure as many men as possible hav
ing farm experience, including retired 
farmers, college students, and men in 
other occupations not essential to the 
national welfare at this time.
Under the United States Boys 
Working Reserve, which is the Junior 
Division of the United States Public 
Service Reserve, boys of high school 
grades between 16 and 21 years of 
age will be recruited. It is essential 
that these young men should begin to 
get farm experience now, in order 
that their valuable service in agricul
ture may be available to the nation 
during the next few years.
There is probably nothing more diffi
cult than to induce persons tempor
arily to change the entire order of 
their daily lives. To sell Liberty Bonds 
is obviously much easier. It is, there
fore, vitally necessary to affect public 
sentiment strongly during the two 
weeks following March 18, if sufficient 
farm labor, especially experienced 
farm labor, is to be procured. We 
cannot, succeed without your co-oper
ation.
You are therefore invited to lend 
every assistance in your power toward 
creating a public sentiment favorable 
to the success of this drive. Men who 
can so arrange their affairs as to serve 
on farms can render no more patriotic 
service during the next few months. 
This is especially true of men who 
have had farm experience.' Pardnls 
should use their influence to get the 
young men of the state on farms. 
Such young men will work either indi
vidually or will reside in Liberty 
Camps organized by the Committee of 
Public Safety. In either case, their 
moral and physical welfare will be 
most carefully guarded by experienced 
school and Y. M. C. A. men, employed 
for the purpose by the Committee of 
Public- Safety.
Letters have been addressed to the 
mayors, burgesses, and township com
missioners of Pennsylvania, requesting 
them to organize rallies on the after
noon of Sunday, March 24, for t]i 
purpose of emphasizing the need of 
farm labor. You are requested to gooperate In every way possible to make 
these rallies successful and send com
munications Immediately to such offi
cials In your community, signifying 
your desire to be of assistance in con
nection therewith.
During the week of March 2-1 the 
members of the Speakers Bureau and 
Four Minute Men will make a nation
wide drive for farm labor. If you de
sire speakers to address your meet
ings, please get in touch with your 
local Committee of Public Safety.
The labor recruited by these drive's 
in this state will be placed on farms 
by the State Committee on Agricul
tural Labor Service, of which the Hon. 
Frank B. McClain, Lieut.. Governor of 
Pennsylvania, is chairman.
Yours very truly,
JOHN C. FRAZEE, 
Federal Director.
INSTITUTE EXHIBITS 
ETCHINGS BY MERYON
From March 11 through April 14 the I 
Department of Fine Arts is exhibiting 1 
the etchings of Charles Meryon. There 
are forty-four pieces in all.
For more than a hundred and fifty 
years after the death of Rembrandt, 
the art of original etching was neg
lected. Except in Itay, whose best 
work was produced during the eight
eenth century, the etching needle was 
used but rarely for its own sake, and 
chiefly as a help and support to re
productive engraving. Then, at the 
beginning of the nineteenth century, j 
came a reaction. Not only a revival j 
of etching itself, but a renewed under
standing of the medium and a prac
tical application of the best tradi-J 
tlons of the art.
The most active part in fostering 
the new movement was undoubtedly 
played by the French landscape 
painters, especially men of the Barblzon SchoolRousesau, Jacque, Dau
bigny, and Corotmen whose names 
are associate with the best landscape 
etchings of the time. But if Barbizon 
was the center of the revival, Paris 
was the inspiration of the greatest of 
French etchers, Charles Meryon.
As a painter he was a failure," 
says Mr. Hugh Stokes, "as an etcher 
he was jinnoticed, save by the few per
sons who knew him personally. His 
existence was one of those lives of 
prolonged misery and unhappiness 
which occur so often in art biography. 
Meryon deprecated the value of his 
own work. Yet there must have been 
moments, when, gazing at his Abside, 
Notre-Dame, or La Galerie de NotreDarne he knew that his genius had | 
given imperishable treasures to the 
world.
We have ready for immediate delivery
Caps, Leggins and 
Uniforms
Complete, with braid and plain buttons, in all sizes
PITTSBURGH UNIFORM TAILORING CO.
3037-40 JENKINS ARCADE
JUNIOR PLATTSBURG 
TO BE OPERATED AGAIN11 BellefOelS Shoe IL
As threshing separates the corn 
from the chaff, so does affliction pur
ify virtue.Bacon.
CHURCHES
ST. PAULS CATHEDRA! 
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.
Masses: 6:30, 8:00, 9:00, 10:00 and 
11:00 A. M. on Sundays and Holy 
Days.
Vespers on Sundays at 7:30 P. M 
Pew 58 Middle Aisle for Tech Stu
dents.
ASCENSION EPISCOPAL CHURCH 
Ellsworth Avenue and Neville Street 
DR. WYATT BROWN, Rector. 
REV. E. JEFFERY JENNINGS,
Assistant.
Sunday Services, 11 A. M. and 7:45 
P. M.
Bible Class, 10:00 A. M.
Tech students cordially welcomed.
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
Shady and Northumberland Avenues 
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M 
Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M. and 
J:00 P. M.
Young Peoples Service, 7:00 P. M. 
Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages 
A cordial welcome f.o all.
ROBERT B. MILLER, D. D., 
Pastor.
MAKE SHADYSIDE PRESBYTE
RIAN CHURCH 
YOUR CHURCH HOME 
Amberson Ave., Near Fifth. 
Church School, 9:45 A. M. 
Margarget Morrison Class, Mrs. 
Frederic B. Shipp, Teacher.
Young Mens Class, Mr. Harry S. 
Calvert, T.eacher.
Morning Service, 11 A. M. 
Evening Service, 8 P. M.
Become a Tech student affiliated 
member of Shadyside Church. 
HUGH T. KERR. D. Du Minister.
EAGLESMERE CONFERENCE 
DESCRIBED AT MEETING
At the meeting of the Y. W. last 
Thursday, Miss Margaret Hamilton 
and Miss Martha Brownlee from Penn
sylvania College for Wonien told 
about last years' Y. W. C. A. Confer
ence and the picture these two girls 
portrayed for the Margaret Morrison 
girls was, to say the least, very in
viting. Miss Brownlee told about the 
lectures and life in general, and Miss 
Hamilton told about the athletics. A 
number of snap-shot photographs 
made descriptions more vivid.
The conference at Eoglesmere is 
held to plan work for the next year, 
and to exchange ideas and to get in
spiration. As the Seniors will have 
graduated by the time the conference 
convenes, the last week in June, only 
Juniors and lower classmen are per
mitted to attendso save your pen
nies for Eaglesmero, Juniors, as this 
is your last chance.
A man may cry Church! Church! at 
every word 
With no more piety than other peo
ple
A daws not reckoned a religious 
bird
Because it keeps cawing from a 
steeple. Hood.
RODEF SHALOM TEMPLE ) 
4905 FIFTH AVENUE 
Near Morewood 
Saturday Services10:30 A. M. 
Sunday Lectures10:30 A. M.
Visiting Rabbis from the lead
ing congregations of the country 
will occupy the pulpit this win
ter. A different Rabbi each 
week.
Grace Church
(Reformed)
THE HOME LIKE CHURCH 
BAYARD and DITHRIDGE STREETS 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister 
SERVICES 
Sunday School9:45 A. M.
Morning Worship11 A. M. 
Christian Endeavor7 P. M. 
Popular Evening Services at 7:45. 
Sermons for Head and Heart. 
Hearty Welcome for All.
Plattsburg, New York, will again be 
the scene of great military activities 
in the summer of 1918. Although the 
government summer training camps 
have all been abandoned since the dec
laration of war, private initiative 
acting upon the suggestion of MajorGeneral Leonard Wood led to the es
tablishment last year of the Junior 
Plattsburg. This has now assumed 
national proportions and lias definite
ly aligned itself in its program with 
the military efforts of the colleges 
and universities of the country. The 
Honorary President is President Ed
mund J. James of the University of 
Illinois; the Advisory Board consists 
of twenty-five college and university 
presidents, representing leading insti
tutions in all parts of the country, 
headed by representatives of the 
Army and Navy in the persons of 
Colonel Tillman, Superintendent of 
the U. S. Military Academy at West 
Point, and Rear Admiral George B. 
Ransom. The direct management is 
under the control of an executive staff, 
of which the President is Professor 
Edward Capps, of Princeton Univer
sity, and the Managing Director is 
General Edward C. OBrien, U. S. Min
ister to Uruguay and Paraguay under 
President Roosevelt. Colonel Ira L. 
Reeves, United States Army in active 
service, President o.f Norwich Uni
versity but 011 leave of absence'during 
the period of the war, is the Director 
of Military courses at the Junior 
Plattsburg Military Training Camp.
The training is assimilated as far 
as possible to that of the regular U. 
S. Military and Naval camps, combin
ed with practical special features, 
which have come into prominence in 
connection with modern warfare, such 
as aeroplane ground work, hydroplane, 
motor boats, topography, military ap
plications of civil, mechanical and 
sanitary engineering; as well as the 
study of the science of farming and 
food conservation. AH the technical 
instruction in military and^naval sci
ence is under the direction of officers 
of the regular U. S. Army and Navy, 
recommended by the Departments in 
Washington. The Commandant will 
be a regular Army officer of high rank, 
and West Point and Annapolis disci
pline and ideals will prevail.
Since the Junior Plattsburg is es
tablished for young men under draft 
age, the training will not be intensive, 
as in the old Plattsburg. Special at
tention will be given to organized 
athletics for the periods of recreation, 
under the direction of Mr. Fred T. 
Dawson of the Athletic Department of 
Princeton. The general entertain
ments, as well as the informal life of 
the camp will be under the direction 
of Rev. Ralph B. Pomeroy of the Gen
eral Theological Seminary of New 
York. The Musical Director is . Mr. 
Felix Lamond of the Trinity Church, 
New York. Provision has been made 
for six hundred -cadets.
RepaOrOKg
FORBES STREET 
Opposite Carnegie Library. 
High class work done while you 
wait.
LOW PRICES TO TECH 
STUDENTS 
Give us a trial.

E?Bell Phne 3465-Grant. |
^ J. G. Marshall 1
Company 1
OFFICE, SCHOOL AND
LIBRARY FURNITURE. [| 
959 LIBERTY AVENUE KsPITTSBURGH, PA. g
FULLER BRUSHES i
Win Men and Money. *
Many Tech men are paying .* 
all or part of their expenses v 
selling Fuller Sanitary Brushes * 
spare time or summer. Attrac- .j* 
tive line, nationally advertised, y 
A square deal for all. X
See Yost, Hain or Trader or 
call at office, 617 Ferguson Bldg., * 
any day between 4 and 6 P. M.
llllllllllilllilllllill
Established 1865
S
PUBLISHERS OF BAGPIPE 
PLAN SPECIAL EDITION
BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN 
CHURCH
Bellefield and Fifth Avenues 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D., 
Minister.
Preaching Services 11 and 8.
Sunday school at 10.
Christian Endeavor at 7.
We want the Tech boys to at
tend our services and learn to 
know us as the congregation of 
"Friendly People. A hearty 
welcome awaits,you.
At the regular meeting of the stu
dent assembly of the School of Ap
plied Industries last Wednesday Fred 
Beede of the Teachers Course, was 
elected candidate of the School of Ap
plied Industries for president of the 
Student Council.
Plans were also made for the pub
lishing of a special military edition 
of the Bagpipe. A committee com
posed of James J. Rudisill, chairman, 
Denman, Hall, and Mock, at work 
preparing copy and other material for 
the issue which will be ready for dis
tribution about the second week in 
April.
The principal feature of the maga
zine at this time will be the Honor 
Roll of Industries men who have left 
the school since the declaration of 
war last April. This will not only 
list the men but also give their rank, 
date of enlistment, and location.
SPORTING GOODS STORE
TennisGolf . |j
BaseballBicycles 
Kodaks and Films 
Guns and Ammunition 
Army Leggings and Sweaters | 
Fishing Tackle 
Bicycle Tires and Sundries 
Tents and Camping Outfits M 
Gun and Bicycle Repairing 
639 LIBERTY AVENUE 
PITTSBURGH, PA.p
IIIIIIIH
TEN-SHUN
UNIFORMS CLEANED 
Price 50c 
24 Hour Service.
15 MAWHINNEY STREET
Miss Anne OLeary jj
Formerly with s
J. E. T. SHUMAN 1
CLEANING, PRESSING AND {| 
REPAIRING [3
3933 FORBES STREET g 
Phone 389 Schenley |s
3rd door from Hotel Schenley ilj 
ALTERATIONS ON UNIFORMS 1
CAMERAPIOON E
EAST LIBERTY 
All This Week
O BY RIGHT OB PURCHASE"
"ROBIN 0 THE WODE
TO BE NEXT TECH PLAY
The next production to be given by 
the Drama Department of the School 
of Applied Design will be somewhat 
in the nature of another Tech Play, 
insofar as the plot underlying Robin 
o the Wode has been adapted by Mr. 
Theodore Viehman from the old Robin 
Hood Tales to made a Background for 
an Engilsh Folk Dance Exhibition.
Mr. Viehman,.in addition to being a
: student of the Department, is instruc1 tor in folk-dancing for the school. He 
! has studied these dances thoroughly, 
j and under eminent teachers, and is 
an acknowledged authority on the sub
ject he teaches.
! The play, a pantomime, which also 
partakes of the character of a pageant, 
serves admirably to bring before the 
public a number of old English dances 
which while in some cases very- gro
tesque, are interesting both artistically 
and historically.
The production will be well . .worth 
j witnessing, as it affords a rare opporj tunity of seeing interpretations of 
steps and figures which are very nearj ly a lost art.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, March 27, 1918THE TARTANPage Three
MrrT li/ITII I ICIVmr an<l are on Sllle at the Pstoffice There IrlLL I TV 11 II LAl A I L I I L is a limited amount of tickets.
r i ii o m ii iTrm 11 nr And now- :'b0,,t 1Clliser Bi-the "'a>'r A S MA rn A l/r Koit>s to hihim is this: A!1 theI rtlLO I U III it I LIUrtLILL proceeds 0( this altalr are t0 1)e .turned
-------------- over immediately to the C. I. T. Red
All hopes of a dual track meet with j Cross Auxiliary Cor general expenses, 
Lafayette were abandoned this week. 'but for the particular needs of a cutThe failure of the athletic manage-1 ting machine (to aid in the making of 
ments of the two institutions to come j surgical dressings), and to pay for
to any agreement as to date or terms \ yarn to make knitted garments for
caused the indefinite postponement of our fighting men. In the future all! 
the meet. The only trip thus remain-1 yarn used by Red Cross auxiliaries I 
ing is the one to Granville. O., where j must bo paid for.
Dennison will be met on'May 4. YOUR $1.50 will help! See a ticket j
The track squad has been working j agent today, give him $1.50 and help 
out diligently and with warmer weath-; knock out. Kaiser Rill and be there 
er approaching, the work will shortly . at Techs first formal Military Ball.
be in full swing. Captain Ellerton is -------------^------------------
performing up to his usual high stan-j inurrrtii A |U TA1IRI1Q 
dard with the weights. Lingenfelser IFIIlULmrt 111
and Russell are showing good form: PRODUCED BY PLEBESwith the dashes. However, conditions !
are rather chaotic and Coach Eyman j -----------------
is presented with a difficult task in j (Continued From Page One.)
| selecting a well balanced team from I tion added much to the charm of her 
the men available, so many of whom lines. Her posing and costume was 
j are unknown quantities. Cooky strongly suggestive of one of the Greek 
Woodward, Petry and Hamman are Nymphs in The Afternoon of a 
showing excellent pre-season form Faun, done by the Russian Ballet
I with the pole vaulting work. Flynn slie has possibilities, 
and ORourke, new men, are also out Minette Buddeke, as First Voice, 
for the dashes, and Anderson is trying read her lines acceptably. Her voice, 
out for the weights. At present the: though light, carries well. Marie Dutprincipal difficulty seems to be a ney, as Second Voice, and Esther 
dearth of experienced distance men. Kress, as Third Voice, made the 
since is was in this department in the most of the brief opportunity offered 
past that Tech usually held a decided them. They possess poetic imaginaadvantage. The only old man out is tion, as evinced by their reading of 
Miller, of last years cross-country their lines, and the timbre of their 
team. voices is rich and warm. Jane Morrow
---------------------------- as Fourth Voice, completed the
Trrii mi nualB RAI1 chorus, the most notable virtue of
ILln MILilAKI BALL which was excellent diction. Ruth
PRflPFFIK Will HFIP Farmer and Caroline Merlng as At-rnUULLUO TULL IILLT tendants, completed the cast.WORK OF RED CROSS , One received the general, impression
that the performance was premature 
and will be seen again, later, to much
(Continued From Page One.) better advantage, from every point of 
than the ordinary grand march. Ac- view.
ceptances have already been received ----------------------------
from Col. Brooks and Maj. Lyle and -THE GRAND
they both will have a prominent place ----------
in the gay parade. Dancing will con- Countless thousands have thronged 
tinue until 2:00 a. m. However, there the luxurious and beautiful new Grand 
will be entertainment for those not Opera House, Pittsburghs new mildancing in the form of bridge, 500 lion-dollar photoplay theater. The new 
and other card games. The refresh- Grand is the very last word in arcliiments will occupy a prominent place j tectural and decorative beauty, and in 
in the evenings program and some- j every feature the theater surpasses 
thing delightfully novel is promised.! any other temple of amusement in 
Hints have been flying around con- this country.
cerning a cabaret butwell, that night! For the week starting Monday mornyou will know. j ing, March 25, Manager Davis anThe committee in charge consists of; nounces a program of exceptional inS. A. Smith, chairman; Miss Ellen terest, the first.and exclusive presenCrowe, Design; Miss Anna. McCand- tation in Pittsburgh of J. Stuart 
less, M. M. C. S.; R. B. Johnson, Indus- Blacktons latest: Paramount picture, 
try, and C. S. Rowe, Science- Wild Youth. The story is an adapThe following committee has been tion from Sir Gilbert^ Parkers novel 
appointed to take charge of the tick- of the same name, 
ets: R. B. Johnson, chairman; Miss Mary Pickford in MLisa, is un| Bernice Kruger, M. M. C. S.; J. S. derlined for an early presentation at 
j Rowe, Science; F. L. Salsgiver, Indus- the Ne\v Grand Opera House. This 
try, and L. H. Rank, Design. Tickets play in the spoken drama made the 
may be purchased from any band man fame and-fortune of Annie Plxley.
A Real Pipe
i forCollegeMen
Through the courtesy of Prof. Work, 
we are able to print part of a letter 
from McFeaters,, captain of last years 
football team. McFeaters is enlisted 
in the Navy and is taking preliminary 
work on a Merchant vessel.
1 have had quite a. bit of study
ing to do, and we have a study period 
every day from 9 to 12 a. m., but we 
cannot do the work in that length of 
time, as we generally have to spend 
from six to eight hours a day on our 
books and the notebook which we 
have to keep. The notebook contains 
everything we study, which we have 
to write up in it, together with quite 
a few sketches, but so far 1 am get
ting along fine.
We dont, have to wear uniforms 
yet. because uniforms cannot be worn 
aboard a merchant vessel.
We have to stand a four hour 
watch every day on the bridge, which 
are split from 12 to 4, 1 to S, and S to
The New llMARKThese are two of the 
24 popular shapes in which you can get the
fe Stratford #
' $1.00 and up
W D C Hand Made
$1.50 and up 
Each a^fine pipe, with sterling silver ring 
and vulcanite bit. LeadingV dealers in 
town carry a full as
sortment. Select your favorite style. ,
WM. DEMUTH & CO.
New York 
World Largest Pipe Manufacturer*
Mellon 
[National 
Bank
PITTSBURGH 
510-514 Smithfield St. 
409-413 Fifth Ave. 
406-410 Oliver Ave. 
Capital - - - - $6,000,000
Genuine
French
Briar
I suppose you wonder why I am 
writing at this hour in the morning 
(5:45). Well, its this way. We got 
orders, when we wanted to go on 
shore leave tonight, to watch the boat 
from 5 p. m. last night till 7 .a. m. this- 1 
morning. The three of us drew for 
watches, and 1 got the one from 3 a. 
m. till 7 a. in., and I am on it now, 
only I am writing this letter, at pres
ent, so if you cant make it out, blame 
part of it to poor writing and the oth
er to a tendency to want to go to 
sleep.
I reported at Cleveland, where I 
drilled, studied seamanship, naviga
tion, etc., for ten days, when I got 
a chance to go along with fifteen of 
the fellows to New York, getting out 
of the training at Cleveland ahead of 
thirty or forty fellows who had been 
there for seven weeks.
I reached New York on a Monday, 
took another physical exam (also took 
one before 1 left Cleveland in which 
15 out of 50 passed, and I stood No. 
2) and passed again. 1 was shipped 
to Baltimore on Friday of that week 
and left Baltimore on Saturday for 
Cuba.
Just had an interruption, while I 
fed one of the foremen some bad 
coffee which the other fellow made
before 1 came on watch. I foraged the
Captains salon and found some bread 
and jam, which goes very good with 
coffee this early in the morning.
Give my best to the Senior Elec
tricals and tell them I long some
times to be back, and if everything 
goes well 1 expect to be back. But. 
graduating with another class isnt 
the same as graduating with a bunch 
of fellows youve known almost four 
years.
1 would have liked to have stayed 
and finished, but I felt that I should 
get out uml do something for my coun
try, which feeling my brother shared, 
and for so doing I feel much better 
and more contented.
I like the work although we are 
on the go from 5:30 a. in. till nearly
12 every night, which Is more than 
the fellows at school do. Sometimes 
I think they dont realize how soft 
a snap they liavo while going to 
school, as I was somewhat, that way 
myself.
You remember that. I told you that 
1 would get. my first touch of bossing 
when I couldnt say anything back. 
Well, I have gotten It, and I am glad 
to say that so far 1 have takon It good 
naturedly and am feeling none the 
worse.
For Instance, if you have been to 
sea for almost 20 days, then get in 
the States again, expecting to go 
ashore, get a good meal, and sleep in 
an honest to goodness bed. Then you 
sail back for Cuba the next day or get; 
orders to watch the ship all night and 
stay aboard her while everyone else 
leaves, and many, other little details, 
which appears on the horizon. But 
as I said before, we laugh such things 
away, as all told we receive the'best 
kind of treatment from the captain 
and the mates. The captain even 
condescends to come in our quarters 
and chat with nh quite frequently.
We had rather rough weather this 
trip, but I did not get seasick. The 
other two fellows did.
While in Cuba we slept with no 
blankets, and in the States we nearly 
freeze at night. But at that, I be
lieve 1 had rather freeze than roast.
I thought I was through buying 
books when I left school, but I was, 
mistaken, as I have spent nearly $20 
for books since I reported for duly, 
and more to buy as we get along.
I had quite an exciting trip in 
Cuba. The captain invited us to go 
along to get some grape fruit. We 
went across the bay at Felton in the 
captain's launch, walked about two 
miles up in the hills. We gathered a 
bag apiece of grape fruit, lugged them 
back to the launch and brought them 
aboard the ship.. We have been eat
ing genuine grapefruit, to our hearts 
content ever since, besides tangerenes 
and oranges, which we also got.
I guess I have told about all I 
know, so I will close, and shortly hit 
the hay.
Your friend,
"JOHN S. McFEATERS, 
c/o Lieut. Hann,
U. S. Naval Auxiliary 
Reserves,
Municipal Ferry Terminal.
South and Whitehall streets,
New York.
DO YOU DANCE?Resources Over 
$100,000,000
ranilllllU!l!lia!lllllll!!llllllllll!lll!llllllllllll!!llll!!llllilll!llllll!lllll!nillllini!!lli;il!!:i[|!ll!illiei!!
DANCING LESSONS CLASS AND PRIVATE |
Special Class for High School and College Students, Smarting Mon- E 
day, October 15, at 8:00 P. M. ^
JACQUES DANCING ACADEMY 
CRAIG AND FORBES BELL PHONE jJSi3JSJSiBM3JSM3MSi3JSi3iSM3M3MSM3J9I
WEBKR EXPRESS AND |j
STORAGE COMPANY 
Bell Phone 239 Schenley. j|
Moving, Packing and Storing 
of Furniture and Pianos. Gen- gj 
eral Hauling Baggage to and a 
from Depots.
4616-18-20 HENRY STREET 3
PITTSBURGH U
BATTERY
436 SeveKth Ave. 
All KOKSs of BATTERIES 
RepaOreS aKS RechargeSSERVICE
W. O. Breckon
STUDIOS1 STRINGS AND SUPPLIES FOR ALL MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS j|
[|] New and Slightly Used Band and String Instruments of All Kinds at [3
 Bargain Prices. 
1 BANJO MANDOLINS Special for This Week b
[3 Ten inches diameter, with fine calfskin head, machogany neck 3
s and metal rim. Every instrument tested and guaranteed true scale, S
||] and powerful tone. Value $12.00. ^
] Special this week.............^
FORBES AND ATWOOD STS. 
Phone 1603181 Schenley 
PECIAL PRICES TO TECH 
STUDENTS
GALLINGERS
I 929 LIBERTY AVENUE Established 1854 fi
TRANSITS AND LEVELS L4j 
1 ALL SUPPLIES FOR THE  
DRAFTING ROOM |fOld Christmas Day.
Old Christmas day is, according to 
the Julian calendar, observed by Rus
sia and the Greek church, and differs 
from the Gregorian calendar by 13 
days and is celebrated on January 0 
and New Years day on January 13.
Quite a Difference.
LawyerWhat was he arrested 
for? MikeThey told me at the sta
tion that he took one too much. Law
yerToo much nr too many? Mike 
What is the difference? Lawyer 
Intoxication or bigamy.Life.
illette
3 Engineers Equipment, Instru- [.7 
1 mente of Precision, Blue Print ft 
3 and Brown Print Papers and W 
Cloths.
:! B. K. ELLIOTT CO. jj
g 126 SIXTH STREET
S/c!/QliinnDJi3fi2/cUi31ciiiiyi3/0/n!/ii?/S/nyi0/eIJ0/cIii3/e?/i3/iiij
Have You Seen the New Gillettes 
Specially designed for the Fighting Man?
HPIIESE models were designed by members of the
Gillette Organization who have seen service with 
the Colors and know what the soldier is up against.
Hundreds of officers and men are buying themthe 
U. S. Service Set in metal case, and the new Khakicovered sets for Uncle Sams soldiers and officers.
The Gillette is the one razor for the man who is do
ing thingsthp one razor with world-wide use and 
reputation.
When a man wants new Blades he can get them at 
any Post Exchange or Y. M. C. A. Hut  here in 
America 01* Overseas.
Our Paris Office carries stocksis constantly sup
plying the American Expeditionary Forces. Gillette 
Safety Razors and Blades on sale everywhere in 
France, England, Italy and the Eastern battle fronts.
1 A good place to got a good meal, l*! 3 1a Meet your friondn here on & 
Sunday evening.
;!] FRED SUDDEBY, Proprietor. 
CRAIG AND FORBES
THE 
SENSIBLE 
TYPEWRITER 
FOR THE 
STUDENTOnly One Razor Measures Up 
to The Soldiers Needs
X HE first thing a man learns in the Service is the meaning of the word Attention! 
Snap, precisiondoing things on the jumpclean and right the first time.
Everything in his life brings him to the Gillette. There are more Gillettes in the 
packs and pockets of Uncle Sams Boys than of all other razors put together.
And this holds good for all the Allied Armies sunburned or wind-sore skin, 
and Navies on all the battle fronts of Europe Theres the simplicity of it. Its freedom from
and the East, from the first gun fired in the stoops, hones, clutter and mess. The saving of 
World-War. time and motion. Blades always sharp, always
Its not alone the quality of the Gillette Shave ready. No strops or hones to clutter up the kit. 
the Gillette service whether the water is hot Everything a man needs for his shaving comor coldthe way it has solved thousands of plete in one compact little unit that tucks away 
times every shaving problem that any man can in his kit or his pocketand No Stropping, No 
put up to itits soothing, bracing effect on the Honing.2ASA4Q
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR COMPANY
BOSTON, MASS., U. S. A.
The Personal Writing Machln 
So simple in construction 
and operation that any
one can use it without 
previous experience. : :
WEIGHS 6 POUND8 
Price $50
lYRREXXE jKDEXr KaAS 2ABNKnrG AN 2KnKUKG Ltd. 
FH jX, QREPKnUET jX,G MAnXSEKR 
lYRREXXE jKDEXr KaAS jAIY7X7 Qn19IrB8 17 Bis, oTE cK eAEXYEG tKSY.G 'SKnIE
Gillette Safety Hazor, Limited 
11Kat Portland St., London, W., Englaw
Q, l, MYILERE.53 LITEINY; PltTUOGIiAD, ItUfiKlA.What Is better than gold? Jaspre. 
What is better than Jaspre? Wise* 
doom. And what Is better than 
\yisedooin? Womman. And what is 
better than a good Womman No 
thyng.rChaucer.
Call 343 Court or Write
StaKSarS TypewrOter Co.
129 FIFTH AVENUE 
FREE DEMONSTRATION 
OPEN EVENINGS
mEUA9K iA.Y gTYSYnA h 'YRY mYK jEnKXAG d,,MYRKnG,XKRr

---------------------------------------------------

Page FourTHK TARTANWednesday, March 27, 1918
the faculty present reasons for the 
admission of women to all depart
ments of the university before taking 
action upon the matter. The senti
ment of the student body seems to be 
in favor of the establishment of a sep
arate institution for the women stu
dents.
P. LUDEBUEHL& SON
SHOES AND HOSIERY PENN AND BRANKS 
Footprints Lead to Detection
The 
finest 
pencil 
for all 
work
MENS EASTER DRESS
REQUISITES 
A Sale of Unusual Interest, 
Specially Featuring 
SILK SHIRTS 
At Greatly Reduced Prices. 
Note and compare the follow
ing with what you see else
where.
An rn For our regular
ulU UU $10;00 and $12,5 si,k
AH fn For the $8.00 and(])U.uU 58.50 grades.
ft) J rrt For the $5.00, $5.50H.OU Iffrts. $6 SUk
|hn nr For our beautiful
*| < -{h $4.00 and $5.00 Silk
^UiUU Fibre Shirts.
And then comes the 
SILK HOSIERY 
With a genuine full-fashioned 
pure silk thread hose, regular
dollar value, for
85c A PAIR 
6 Pair for $5.00.
Others ranging at 
50c, 65c, $1.00, $1.50 
All Colors and Sizes.
NEW EASTER NECKWEAR 
All the latest patterns and colors 
50c, 65c, $1.00, $1.50 
The greatest assortments in 
the city for you to choose from.
Woodrow Wilson, President of the 
United States, once coached the Wes
leyan football team, and his work was 
dh successful that the college defeated 
the University of Pennsylvania at 
Berkley Oval, New York City, on | 
Thanksgiving Day that year, 10 to 2. i 
That was in 1889, and Pennsylvania 
a*nd Wesleyan were members of the 
American Intercollegiate Football As
sociation, with Yale, Harvard and 
Princeton.
President Wilson was professor of' 
history at Wesleyan in 1889. When the 
football team star Led the season poor
ly and the college body lost confidence 
in its eleven, Professor Wilson inject
ed himself into the situation. He ex
pressed an interest in the football 
work and was elected faculty adviser. 
Strengthened by this authority he 
turned to the task of building up a 
winning team at Wesleyan.
Loyalty and work were the twin virlures he preached to the team and he 
succeeded in getting the men to put 
them into practice. Wesleyan had no 
coach in those days, so the young his
tory professor studied the rudiments 
of the game and taught them to the 
team. He was found on the field 
every afternoon conferring with the 
captain, McDonald. The Wesleyan 
players in the ear;ly games of the sea
son had displayed a tendency to try 
to pull off grandstand plays, as they 
were called. Each man seemed to 
want to do something spectacular. 
Professor Wilson realized that this 
spirit would mean failure in the end 
and he discouraged it. He talked 
about team play and the duty of each 
player to co-ordinate his efforts for 
the good of all. The undergraduates 
soon got to speaking of the team as 
the Wilson machine. After Wesleyan 
had defeated Trinity, Rutgers and 
Williams there was great enthusiasm.
Lehigh had been playing a fine game 
in the meantime and had sent a chal
lenge to Wesleyan, which was accept
ed. A game was arranged to be played 
at Hampden Park, in Springfield, 
Mass., the Friday before Thanksgiving. 
The game was marked by long punts, 
brilliant runs and terrific charges. 
Wesleyan played with great earnest[ ness, for a rumor had come that should 
I Lehigh win she would ask for Wes| leyans place in the big league. Dasliiel 
I kicked a pretty goal from the 25-yard 
I line, which netted Lehigh five points. 
Slayback scored for Wesleyan, but it 
was not allowed on account of alleged 
Interference. In the second half DashI iel carried the ball over for Lehigh,
| which made tlie score 11 to 0 in favor 
I of Lehigh.
; It was at this juncture that a tall 
figure in rubber coat and boots, for it 
was raining, left the side lines and 
walked to the Wesleyan bleachers. It 
was Professor Wilson. Using his um
brella as a baton, ho ordered the Wes
leyan men to cheer as they never 
cheered before. Those cheers went 
booming across the field and put new
The standing of a man is as oftras not told by his footwearif he Icareless of that, he's apt to be negli
gent of more important things. 11 
you will buy your shoes here, you may 
be certain of looking all right, feeling 
all right and impressing others with 
the fact that you arc "all right. Our 
Shoes arc built by some of the most 
representative Shoe Manufacturers in 
the world.
The University of Illinois has a col
lection of war relics which have been 
contributed by men in the service. 
Everything from a French machine 
gun to a German sausage-grinder is 
exhibited.
It writes 
easier 
It lasts 
longer
Mr. J. H. Vogel will speak to an as
sembly of Science students tomorrow 
afternoon at 4:30, on Engineering in 
the Orient. At this meeting the' Sci
ence candidate for president of the 
Central Student Council will be elect
ed. The names of those nominated 
for Science candidate are published on 
the first page of this issue.
Oakland Savings & Trust
THE OAKLAND BANK"
CAPITAL,
SURPLUS,
DEPOSITS OVER $3,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENTSTUDY IN WAR TIME.
W degrees 
U at all If stationers
ELbOKADO
"ihe master drawing pencil"
A National Institution::
I; Browning, King & Company j
P CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS AND HATS FOR 
MEN, BOYS AND CHILDREN 
439-441 WOOD STREET
lOllll!l!OllO!!!l!l[|!!l!l'OllOl!ll!!ll!IIIII!ll!!lllOlll[IIIIIIIIIIIIIII!|!Oll!lllllOlll!lllllll!!l!llllllllO[ll!!llll(llOOlll!llllll!!llllllllllllllll...^limillllllllllllll!lll!FlliniHllllllllnillllllll[llll|[!lnl!nilllimiliOIIIII[ffl
WiLLPYLE
THREE STORES 
910 Liberty Avenue
125 Fifth Ave., Jenkins Arcade 
105 Union Arcade
fH3Jr5iG!M3MSMSM2MclMSMiilMci/clJ2JciMSiSi3Mc!MS/SMSMSM3MSMSMSM3JSM3iSMS/
McDOUGALLS DANCING- CLASSES
1 SHADY AND PENNDANCES MONDAY, THURSDAY, SATURDAY [| 
4616 FORBES STREETFRIDAY EVENINGS 
[3 , Private Lessons and Beginners Classes every day and evening.
Jatz Fox Trot Ramble Waltz Mirimba Orchestra [|jNearest to Tech
FRED FARGEL, Proprietor
FORBES AND ATWOODOAKLAND
For Easter Wear
New NeckwearNew Shirts
War correspondents have often com
mented on the attachment of ambu
lance drivers for their cars and have 
also spoken of the particular service
ability-of the lightweight cars which 
are especially popular among the men 
of the ambulance units.
The poem here given beats out these 
statements. It was written by a driver 
on the French front, whose name was 
not disclosed, and received in 'this 
country by Donald McGuiggan, of 
Minneapolis, who is now stationed at 
Fort Riley, Kansas.
In the language of the ambulance 
drivers, voitures means carriage; 
blesses signifies wounded soldiers; 
and essence and leau aro his terms 
for gas and water respectively. The 
poem follows:
HUNKA TIN 
You talk about your voitures,
When youre sitting round your quar
ter,
But when it conies to getting blesses
Seo our special lino of Fibre Silk Hose, in white, black, grey, tfj 
pj hnmpngne, suede nnd other good shades at 39c a pair.
New Spring weights of Underwear, two-piece and union suits, at 
Of] special low prices.mmm
THE TURKISH
CIGARETTE
Take a little tip from me,,
Let those heavy motors be,
Pin your faith on Henry Fs old Hunka 
Tin.
Give her essence and leau,.
Crank her up and let her go,
You back firin. spark plug foolin 
Hunka Tin!Easter Music 
on Victor Records
Use Frederick Record Service for all Victor Records
INSTANT RECORD SERVICE
On the First Floor at the Door.
Two Floors of Victrola Farlors for Demonstration. 
One of our special outfits would be a- splendid Easter 
remembrance.
The paint is not so good,
And no doubt youll find the hood 
Will rattle like a boiler shop enroute; 
The coolers sure to boil,
And perhaps shes leaking oil,
Tlio oftentimes the horn declines to 
toot;
But when the night is black,
And theres blesses to take back, 
And they hardly give you time to take 
a smoke,
Its mighty good to feel,
When youre sitting at the wheel, 
Shell be running when the other cars 
are broke.
After all the wars are past,
And we're taken home at last,
To our reward of which the' preacher 
sings;
When those ukalele sharks,
Will be strumming golden harps,
And the aviators all have reglar 
wings;
When the Kaiser is in hell,
With the furnace drawing well, 
Paying for his million different kinds 
of sin;
If theyre running short of coal,
Show me how to reach the hole,- 
And Ill cast a few loads in with 
Hunka Tin.
CENTS
Hes got a box 
of Murads in his 
old kit bag.
See him smile 
smilesmile.
Victrola IX 
Cabinet .. 
Records .,
Yes, Tin, Tin, Tin,
Youexasperating puzzle, Hunka Tin; 
Ive abused you and I've flayed you, 
But by Henry Ford who made you, 
You are better than a Packard, Hunka 
Tin!
Easy Payments Part of Frederick 
. Service.
AT OTHER COLLEGES.
MiKr-t (f the *bUGarrii* Tiirktsfi cn J Egyptian Grandies in J/v U(nUOver one thousand under-graduates 
of the University of Pennsylvania 
have passed a resolution urging that
