5%Basket Ball 
Practice 
Has Started
VOL. XIV. No. 9.(Iht (larian
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA
Maybe We Can 
Beat Thenj in 
Basket; Ball
NQVEMBER 26, 19*9.
Plaid Warriors Hold Pitt to 17-7 Score
Courtesy Gazette Times.
E 
PACKS SCHENLEY THEATRE 
PROVES SENSATIONAL HIT
Press Clippings from Pittsburgh 
Dailies.
Needless to state, everyone connect
ed with Tech, and especially with the 
Division of Arts, thought that the 
production of Bohemia Unlimited 
at the Schenley Theatre the evening 
of November 21 and 22 was a huge 
success. But perhaps a resume of 
what the press of Pittsburgh thought 
of the performances, being less preju
diced will indicate more fairly the 
general impression made by the extravanza.
The Chronicle Telegraph Says:
Tech Students Will Repeat Play 
Tonight.
Students at Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, under the auspices of the 
Division of Arts, presented last night 
a musical extravaganza, Bohemia 
Unlimited. The cast of 100 per
formed' very creditably, especially the 
large number of soloists and dance 
specialists. Mary Ricards, in a sketch,, 
The Joy Shop on the Nile, as Heluma, a dancer, gave a very good per
formance. Among other who attract
ed favorable attention were Ellen 
Crowe, Grey McAuley, and Lawrence 
Paquin.
The Pittsburgh Sun has the follow
ing criticism:
Tech Show Pleases Large Audience.
Barefoot dancing girls, draped in 
not too much gauzy stuff, were gener
ously distributed thruout the two acts 
and fifteen scenes of Bohemia Un
limited, a musical extravaganza given 
in the Schenley Theatre last night by 
the Division of Arts of Carnegie Intitute of Technology. The show was 
a potpourri of almost everything and 
the scenes ran the gauntlet of every
thing from Africa to the North Pole.
The production was written, staged 
and directed by Tech students. It had 
some clever lines and several catchy 
songs. Egypt, Eskimo Baby, 
and I Remember You seemed to be 
the favorites. With a cast of one 
hundred it is hardly possible to pick 
out the shining stars but the dancing 
of Mary Ricards and Elizabeth Allen 
Smith, the singing of James S. Church, 
N. H. Muller and Ellen Crowe and 
(Continued on page 6.)
--
JUNIORS LOSE VOLLEY 
GAME 10 SOPHS 24-10
The Sophomores triumphed over the 
Juniors in the volley ball game last 
Monday afternoon. The game was 
hotly contested but luck was with the 
Sophomores and they trimmed the 
Juniors 24 to 10. The result was 
rather unexpected as a better oppo 
sition from the Juniors had been an
ticipated. The star of the game was 
Mary Zarobsky, one of the best all
round athletes in Margaret Morrison. 
Miss Patton refereed the game.
The Seniors are practicing several 
times a week and will probably play 
the Sophomores in the near future.
GIRLS MUSICAL CLUB 
STARTS WITH FLOURISH
The Musical Club of Margaret Mor
rison, which was organized last year, 
has started out with a flourish. Mr. 
Harvey Gaul, reknowned in Pittsburg 
musical circles, has been secured as 
leader, and has brought much enthus
iasm with him. Concerts are already 
being planned for in the near future, 
but no definite dates have been made. 
A home concert and dance some time 
in the late spring will be the big feat
ure of the year. Mr. Gaul is quite 
pleased with the material furnished 
by the try-outs held for the last two 
Tuesdays. The membership will be 
limited to forty and from the present 
outlook there will be a large waiting 
list. One cut per quarter will be al
lowed and any one overcutting or fail
ing to keep up her scholastic standing, 
will be dropped from membership. The 
officers for this year are: Jean Eaken, 
manager, Marion McCombs, secretary, 
and treasurer and Helen Hester, li
brarian and Lenore Daires was chosen 
by Mr. Gaul at a try-out for accom
panist.
BIG FOOTBALL SMOKER
The big event of Saturday evening 
was the football smoker, which was a 
decided success. During the first part 
of the evening the time was filled up 
with cheering, chewing the rag and 
drinking cider. When the team came 
in as many as could be captured were 
carried up front. The rest made a 
rush before they could be captured. 
Cap McCorkle presided over the 
speech making. Phil Marshall thank
ed the students and the team for the 
support they had given him and told 
how sorry he was to leave after four 
years of association with Tech and 
the football team. Captain-elect Godden told of his ambition for next year. 
He asked for the same loyal support 
as the team received this year. Burt 
Munhall and Coach Hazel also gave 
short talks. Coach Steffen was un
able to be at the smoker because he 
had to catch an early train to Chi
cago. Eveiycme missed him greatly. 
Clarence Overman, the president of 
the Varsity Clan told the students 
that a new era of athletics is about 
to start at Tech and that the Varsity 
Clan, with the help of the alumni and 
students is going to start some big 
improvements along that line. Mar
shall, a star on the first Tech team, 
gave a little talk on athletics at Tech. 
Cap Dosey wandered in with a 
soup and fish uniform and was almost 
convinced that he ought to make a 
speech.
Lighter entertainment was supplied 
by a girl who tripped the light fan
tastic toe very cleverly. Her act con
sisted of a number of national dances, 
such as an Irish reel and a Scotch jig. 
She was followed by a girl who sang 
some popular songs, on the chorus 
she would go to one of the football 
men and sing to him. Some of them 
were bashful and one even ran away 
and had to be tackled and brought 
back. It was one big evening of riproaring fun.
MARSHALL STARTS ON HIS 93-YARD RUN.
Team Springs Surprise on Heavy 
Over-confident Panther Eleven
Backfield Played as it Never Has BeforeRevealing No Individual Stars
Loomis, Godden and Marshall Play Well.
1-2-3-4-5-G-7! C-A-R-N-E-G-I-E! 
Rah!! Thus rang out the mighty! 
Plaid yell from three thousand loy
al Tartan throats, booming through 
the Forbes Field stands, reverbrating 
through the valley echoing and re
echoing from the Pitt-studded tulls 
to the rolling sward of Schenley. It 
was the second quarter of the annual 
Pitt-Tech football classic and the two 
giants spurred on by an ancient feud, 
were battling tooth and nail for the 
supremacy and incidentally the city 
championship. It was the event of a 
lifetime and although Tech was final
ly forced to accept the small end of 
the 17-7 score there is not one son 
of the Plaid who can recall that glor
ious first half without again expe
riencing the wild thrill of that touch
down and feel again the glow of the 
old Tech spirit.
Occasions are rare when fans are 
priveledged to witness such an exhi
bition of cunning strategy, bull-dog 
tenacity and rip-tearing unreckoning 
spirit. It was a game replete with 
everything that makes football the 
royal sport that it is. Two fighting 
machines battling with every ounce 
of energy, the score closely contested, 
clean-cut forward passes, brilliant 
field running, sudden turns of fate, 
breathless heart-stopping thrills, it 
was all that the most blase fan could 
wish.
In such a manner did the Plaid gridders of 1919 bring their schedule to 
a glorious close and incidentally carve 
for themselves a niche in the Car
negie Hall of Fame.
The Tech brand of football was 
generally acknowledged superior to 
anything which has been shown by a 
visiting team on Forbes Field this 
season. To run up seven points, ir. 
the meantime holding Pitt scoreless 
is a feat which few teams have ever 
been able to accomplish. Steffen had 
prepared on offensive for this fray, 
which, barring that perhaps of Syra
cuse, was more elusive, keener and in
tricate than any which the Pan the? 
have brushed with this year. Tech 
made their first downs time and time 
again tearing great gaps through the 
Pitt line or skirting the wing for sub
stantial gains.
About ten thousand spectators were 
in the stands when the first whistle 
blew of which probably one-half were 
students. The Pitt aggregation occu
pied the bleachers off of third base 
and the covered stands diagonally op
posite while the Plaid noise-generating turbine was situated in the west 
bleachers and the opposite, covered 
stands.
Old Sol who had threatened to'.spoil 
the performance earlier in the day ex
perienced a change of heart and de
cided also to witness the contest so 
although the field was slippery, over
head conditions were ideal.
Promptly at 2:35 the Blue ancj Gold 
eleven ran out onto the field closely 
followed by the Steffen machine. 
There was a short, snappy signal,
n'uctice, punts were kicked to waiti$ backs and the men called back to 
their benches. A coin was flipped for 
position and Pitt winning the toss 
elected to receive on the northern ter
ritory.
Tech started the fireworks at the 
first whistle when Williams pulled a 
successful fake kick-off. He booted the 
ball high in the air Marshall recover
ing and slipping through the Pitt 
lines for ten yards. Quick, snappy 
plays followed in which the Plaid 
functioning like a well oiled machine 
pushed the Panther back to their 24- 
yard line. Marshall at this point at
tempted a field goal but failed. Pitt 
now rose in the ascending and Aschman and Laughran tore off substan
tial gains carrying the ball to Techs 
30-yard line.
Now followed the greatest play of 
the game. Aschman despairing of a 
touchdown elected to try for a field 
goal. The ball went low and Mar
shallthe up-tearing fleet-footed Phil 
playing a little off to one side 
snatched the ball from the air and 
started his wonderful run for 93 yards 
he tore down the field while his mates 
clipped off pursuers. Laughran alone 
was able to elude the offense but he 
was too late. At the ten-yard line he 
threw himself through the air in a 
final effort but fell short of his mark 
and Marshall with a final spurt passed 
over the last chalkmark placing the 
ball behind the crossbar. Fletcher 
kicked the goal. In the Tech stands 
pandemonium broke loose. Hats, 
coats, megaphones, everything was 
thrown in the air except the stands. 
President Hammerschlag sitting on 
the players bench found himself seized 
and engaged in an impromptu jazz. 
Burt Marshall the quiet and dignified 
trainer sought outlet for expression 
by emptying the water buckets over 
every one within distance. It was a 
rare session.
But that which gave joy to one spelt 
disaster to the other. The Pittites 
were being badly whipped, going at 
the present rate another Tartan goal 
was not far distant. Warner rushed 
everything he had into the breach 
to check the onrushing Plaid. Mc
Cracken, Davies, Morrow were thrown 
into the fray to bolster the failing 
Panther. Their success was but tem
porary.
Fletcher after tearing off a gain for 
18 yards now uncorked an aerial at
tack. A long perfectly executed for
ward pass to Goden placed the ball
on the 25-yard line. The ground 
game was resumed and the Pitt line 
crumbling under the gruelipg Plaid 
attack fell back to their 12-yard 
trench.
The time was now ripe to put over 
another touchdown and clinch the 
game. Fletcher again selected the air 
route for this task and threw the ball 
cleanly over the heads of the forwards 
towards Wittmer who had run out in
to the open and back of the goal line 
(Continued on page 5.)
RIDERS TO THE SEA 
WELL PRESENTED FRIDAY
The production of Synge's Riders 
To the Sea last Friday afternoon, by 
the night class of the School of Drama 
was interesting if not inspired. Evoryone knows the story, if it can bo call
ed that, of the mother who has given 
all but the one son to the over-hungry 
ocean, and whose intuition tells her 
that this time the only remaining lad 
is to leave on his last rido to the 
sea.
The daughters are not sympathetic, 
they realize that man must go out to 
seek the wherewithal for a living, and 
that it is useless to bemoan a mis
fortune before it has occurred.
When the body of the son and 
brother is finally carried in, and the 
mother is at last able to rest comfort
ably, as sho says, having no ono to 
worry about now, knowing that no 
further misery can come upon her, 
as the greatest sorrow has been ex
perienced, the curtain falls upon the 
most desolate picture, unlightened by 
the slightest ray of hope, that one can 
imagine.
Miss Sweoney who was the mother 
not only acted, but seemed to live the 
part, so genuine wa slier interpreta
tion of the broken woman whoso only 
hope is for tho rest which comes with 
knowing that nothing more can hap
pen to add to her grief.
At the last moments her utter sim
plicity makes real a bit of action and 
spoech which might easily be over
acted and rendered cheap and even 
grotesque.
Mr. Harrison as the son was quite 
pleasing to look upon, and even to 
hear, but it seems that he lacked the 
force and spirit necessary to contrast 
with the mother. The criticism may 
be unjust, but one feels that he should 
have had at least a good shaking to 
wake him up.
Miss Carr played the elder daughter 
well enough, if her pantomime did 
rather lag at times.
Miss Moore as the younger sister 
would have appeared to better advan
tage, it seems, if she had let her hair 
down entirely before she entered up
on the stage. Her lines were sincere
ly read, and except for one or two 
places where she let down a trifle, 
her character was well sustained.
Perhaps some would call it not act
ing at all, but even at that, the groups 
of men and women who appear at the 
end of the play were effective by their 
sheer lack of pose. The whole ef
fect was one of utter abandon to grief, 
and that is what was desired.
--
MEMBERS OF FACULTY 
HOLD DANCING CLASSES
Thirty members of the C. I. T. fac
ulty have formed a dancing class, 
which meets in the Margaret Morsrion Recreation Hall on Tuesdays at 
4:30. Miss Spurrier, instructor in 
physical training in Margaret Mor
rison, is the teacher Only members 
of the faculty and staff may become 
members. Those who wish to Join 
should see Mrs. Moore, Central Build
ing; Professor Hedden, Industries, or 
Professor Thayer, Science.
PITT FRESHIES OVERCOME 
CARNEGIE PLEBES 39-0 IN 
PRELIMINARY CONTEST
Plebcs Make Poor Showing.
The Panther Freshmen swept over 
Carnegie Tech Plebes to a 39-0 vic
tory Saturday afternoon at Forbes 
Fluid in tho preliminary contest to 
thoPitt-Tech classic, outplaying them 
in every department of the game. Tho 
Plobos dofonso was absolutely holpIohs before the smashing attacks of 
Acting Capt. Ilondrian and his con
stituents, who marched up and down 
tho field at will. Coach Kerr with
drew more than half of his most de
pendable ground gainers in tho fourth 
quarter and almost every substitute 
on the Panther Cubs bench partici
pated In the football frolic at the ex
pense of the Techitos.
The Panther Cubs scored one touch
down in the first porlod boforo tho 
Plebes awakened to the fact that tho 
game was in progress. They braced 
somewhat for the remainder of tho 
porlod, but throe touchdowns were 
pushed over in the second period and 
two in the fourth.
Hondian was at the pilot position, 
and it took him just a few minutes to 
steer the reliable Cubs' ship over the 
final grid mark for the first touch
down. Line plunges by Hewitt, An
derson, Byers and an ofi-tacklo smash 
by Ilondrian turned tho trick.
Hewitt and Ilendian Play Best.
The work of the ontiro Freshmen's 
backfield was right up to the standard 
sot in previous games, especially tho 
great work of Hewitt and Ilondrian.
Ilondrian, as usual starred, and near 
the end of the game pulled a spec
tacular run of 50 yards. He started 
to hit tackle, but changed his mind 
and twirling around several would-be 
tacklers he dashed through the entire 
Plebe eleven for a touchdown.
Linemen Deserve Praise.
That line held so well that the 
Plebes failed to make one first down. 
The entire line played gilt edge ball, 
but the work of Sacklowsky and 
Magarral probably was rather promi
nent, while Clawson and Harnett not 
only played well on the defense, but 
(Continued on page 4.)
GUILD DANCElPROVES 
TO BE BIG SUCCESS
Friday evening in the Union, the 
Guild dance came off just as well if 
not better than had been expected. 
A large crowd made almost too large 
about 11:30 by people from the Ex
travaganza, enjoyed the good music 
to the utmost. Much to every ones 
regret several dances had to be cut 
out as the time was too short. The 
programs were quite unique and, put 
away in M. M.s memory books, will 
mark one of the most enjoyable school 
dances ever held.
The success of the dance insures a 
bigger and better Bazaar than ever 
this year. This Bazaar, under the 
auspices of the Guildfi will be held 
just before the Christmas holidays. 
Several new and interesting stunts are 
being planned for it.

---------------------------------------------------

t>Afe fW
UKUUUl.s
.Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Activities Board.
Entered in the .postofljice of Pittsburgh as .second-class matter.
This.yearJjil.CO.. ..
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
. ,0e, tho copy, Canada,. .$1,7.5
Business Manager
Phoric Hazel 9422
Phone Hazel 9425.
1------:r4->-----------<;---------:--------
THE TARTANWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 26, 191$.
EDITORIAL 
Managing Editor 
L. It. Paquin 
Assistant Managing Editors 
F. I. Smith 
C. L. Lake
News Editor 
J. T. Ames
Associate
W.
News Editors 
D. Hall
Athlctic Editor
G. R. Goodrich 
Assistant Athlctic Editor
Circulation Manager
H. G. Atchley
School Editors
M. M. C. S.............Margaret J. GrifFen
Science....................J. K. W. Macalpine
Industries............................J. R. Rudisill
Arts....................................T. R. Hinckley
Other Assistants 
II. C. Haldeman 
R. G. Welsh 
L. A. McCardell 
Arthur Lubin 
J. R. Barrow 
Gertrude Baton 
Margaret Stolzenbaugh 
Adele Gumbert 
Olga Kiefer
BUSINESS STAFF 
D. A. Sillers 
N. E. Fox 
Wm. Obenour 
M. I. Cohen
TARTAN OFFICE...............................................................................Room 162, Design
Hours1:00 to 4:00 Wednesdays.
12:00 to 1:00 Thursdays.
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the Man
aging Editor for the make up.
All business communications should be sent to ttyp Business Manager. 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported 
at once.
THE CAMPUS ANVIL
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the signature to be withheld if desired.
All news items must be in the student postoffice, Central Building, before 
4:30 P. M. Fridays.
SPORTSMANSHIP.
(Contributed.)
Everybody will admit that Saturday's game was straight football, cleanly 
played. Games have been seldom played in which there was as little penaliz
ing as in Saturday's game. All who were there know that the teams played 
each other square. Near the end of the last quarter several of the Pitt 
players retired from the field passing the Tech cheering stand. Several men 
in the stand jeered at these players and yelled many insulting remarks at 
them. We are sure that these men could not have been Tech students but 
Tech will.be given credit for this unsportsmanlike conduct.
It is to be hoped that such a spirit of loyalty to our alma mater will exist 
that any show of such rowdyism will be dealt with by the real Tech student: 
near by In such a way that the rooters will be given the same credit that the 
team not only receives but deserves, for they played the game square".
-----------Or
HOW ABOUT IT?
Tho old adage which says Never count your chickens before they are 
hatched" is .suggested for Pitts use in the future; Read this:
Our friends from oer .the Hollow will visit us next Saturday. We must 
show them due courtesy, of course, blit we muni take- cure that they do not 
take anything back home; that is, we must have them taking 0 home."
----------------------
WELL DONE.
Numerous attempts have been made in the past to comment editorially 
upon the interest displayed in cheering at football games. To say the least, 
it was feared that we should bo totally eclipsed last Saturday but it took 
the annual fray to bring back tho pop.
Outside of a few unruly remarks and the pugilistic display everything 
went well. Of course, if our rivals hail taken any other opportunity, to take 
tin* Hag down except; the one they chose, all tho trouble would luive botfn 
averted. It seems that they were looking for trouble and those who seek 
generally iihd."
The student body should be complimented on their willingness to with
draw from the fray when the officers tried lo break up the affair and for 
their support of the team as well. 11 was the best cheering heard this year. 
Wasnt It great in comparison with our rivals spirit in the first half. Now 
that it. 5 soon what good cheering results in, why not make every effort to 
keep It up.
CALENDAR OF KVENTS.
November 27, 28, 20.- Thanksgiving Recess ....................................... No Classer
December 5. Intorlruternity Dance ........................................ Duquosne Garden
Oocembor 20 First Day Christmas Ivecess.
.January 6, 1920 First Day of Winter Quarter.
January io, 11)20.- Quaker Club Dance......................................Diiqucsne Cardor
LINES
Look at that couple a-jazzing. 
Boy! but she shakes -a mean hip. 
Oh! I think youre mean- if you 
razz him.- ' * 
Sure I had charge of the ship.
Now Stop it, I hear some some "One 
coming.
Bohemia? Say it's a bear.
When did the beanery start running. 
Darn it, youve mussed up my hair.* * *
But just when the old bus was 
sinking.
Whos the peach Johnny has 
brought?
There's a gent there that's been 
drinking.
Really I never gave her a thought.. * *  *
Come on kid let's shuffle a shimmy.
I'll bet there's hooch in the punch. 
I'm sorry the next ones with Johnny 
See you in Skibo for lunch.* * *
Aw. Nellie, please quit your stalling. 
Pitt game? Sure I was there.
Why don't you shave? Oh! I'm falling. 
Heads up there gents, give 'em air.
Charlie has brought a new chicken. 
Oh! gee Pm coming undone.
I hear old John Redeyes still kicking. 
Let's sit on the stirsjust for fun.* * *
Oh dont you live in the city 
Ford? Sure Ill take a chance 
With that face? Gee it's a pity 
That was a peach of a dance.? * ? ,
How to Make Money.
Start a school. Then open up a 
beanery.* * *
About the only thing allowed about 
naked these days is the truth, which 
speaks much for the veracity of Pup
pet.* * *
The Feminine Idea of High Financc.
Pitching pennies in Design School 
Lobby at noon hour.# * *
They say that girls are the slaves 
of dress, which leads us to remark that 
the Bohemia chorus seemed to be 
fully emancipated.
Dit It Ever Happen to You?
A pretty girl sat in a railroad train, 
As.lonesome as she could be;.-- 
And she said to herself with a little 
- sigh
If he'd only talk to me.
The young man sat just across the . 
aisle,
From the girl with the pretty stare, 
And he said to himself, If I sit with 
her,
I wonder if she would care."
And so they rode the whole long day, 
And neither one off them knew,
Just what the other was thinking of, 
Did it"ever happen to you?
Penn State Froth.* * *
Outdoor Sports.
Surveying the cut on a windy day. * * *
It took six weeks to issue the 
Scandal Number" of Puppet and we 
spent another half hour, with a pair of 
shears, trying to make a Home 
Number" out of it.* * *
Well all look wise, said Mr. Hutch, 
And put on bluss, thats true; 
But darn few know as much 
As they pretend they do.
Luke McLuke.* * *
And on the other hand, said Hall, 
Id hate to think that you 
Do not know any more than all 
The neighbors think you do.
Newark Advocate.* * #
You guys are sure a nutty pair, 
Quoth Cub Reporter Bing.
I daily meet wise guys who swear 
They do not know a thing.
Sarcoxie (Mo.) Record.* * *
If Plebes knew all they thought they 
did,
Said our friend Mr. Geek,
By gosh, 'd have to go to work: 
There wouldnt be no Tech.* ? +
Dr. Trumbauer: The man who
gives in when he is wrong is a wise 
man, but he who gives in when he is 
right is
Plebe: Married.
FOR COLLEGE MEN
There is an excelling style atmosphere 
about our clothes which make them instant
ly popular.
They appeal to college men not alone be
cause of their dominating style, but largely 
on account of the high-grade tailoring and 
serviceable fabrics.
Our chain-store system affords worth-while 
savings. Visit our store nearest you and be 
convinced. Correct fit and satisfaction 
guaranteed.
OUR OWN RETAIL STORES AT
AKRON, Ohio.............................124 S. Main St.
CLEVELAND, Ohio. 503-505 Prospeet Ave.
MILWAUKEE, Wis..................192 Third St.
PITTSBURGH, Pa...................507 Market St.
PITTSBURGH, Pa.. .209-11 Smithfield St.
PITTSBURGH, Pa............932 Liberty Ave.
READING, Pa...............................751 Penn St.
SCHENECTADY, N. Y.. .302-304 State St.
SYRACUSE, NY...............138 S. Salma St.
TERRE HAUTE, Ind. . . .410 Wabash Ave.
WILKES-BARRE, Pa.............66 S., Main St.
YOUNGSTOWN O.. 107-109 W. Federal St.
We will open stores at Scranton, Pa., and 
Trenton, N. J., early in 1920.
rB3fg^J3/gj2J55/3jg^jjg/2/i5Jiaj0ffp)/g^angjp]Jfpjfi]n3fii3fi)fan3ifarFirJronoRnf='
Mention the TARTAN when buying of these Advertisers.
VARSITY CLAN HOLDS 
IMPORTANT MEETING
Goddcn Football Captain-Elcct.
The Varsity Clan banquet was one 
of the peppiest meetings ever held 
around Tech. Everybody was full of 
the old Tech spirit, and ready to do 
anything possible for the school. Clar
ence Overman, president of the Clan, 
presided at the banquet.
1 President Hammers chi ag said that 
a new era was coming in Tech ath
letics. The war broke down the old 
system, so a new system was needed. 
He recommended that a committee, 
consisting of- men. from the Varsity 
Clan, the alumni, the student body 
and the faculty should be elected to 
talk over the situation and make 
recommendations to him.
. Coach Steffen spoke about, some of 
the difficulties encountered yin getting 
together and coaching a team, He 
told that lie had had a fine time at 
Tech rtnd said that he had learned to 
love the men on the team. He stated 
that. ho.had almost decided to give up 
coaching because his work demanded 
it;, but that. Tech and its football team 
would always hold a warm place in his 
heart, lie complimented the team on 
its great spirit and. gamenoss, saying 
that it had played real football. He 
referred to the fact that Phil Marshall 
was as great; as Hastings.
, Dr. Baker said that, he was just 
becoming acquainted with the real 
condition .of 'athletics at Tech and 
would, help- .in any way possible to 
improve them.
? ^hi}; Marshall thanked the team for 
the support given, him. Ho said that 
he was very sorry to leave the school
but was glad to leave with his big 
ambition full'.lled and was happy to 
have had the opportunity of playing 
with such a team.
Meanwhile Red" Godden was elect
ed next years captain. He thanked 
his team mates for the honor and said 
he l'.oped for a team as good as thu 
years.
Coach Hazel gave a general talkon the condition of athletics at Tech 
:sayiivv that, they must be bettered. 
Hurt Colm vy said that things hac1 
come to a head and that action mus1 
V. ta'.ion now. Cap. McCorkle sale 
'.hat he knew conditions were such 
hat immediate action must be taken. 
II. S. Nichol told the opinion of the 
stu:lent body on the subject of ath
letics..
The election of officers resulted as 
follows: President, Clarence Over
man, captain of the first hockey team 
in 190S; first vice president, R. K. 
iLIerrill, a hockey man; second vice 
president, James Tamaree; third vice 
president, Donald Scott. Tamaree and 
Soott were both football managers 
Secretary and treasurer, Bert Colmery, a baseball man.
Tamaree, who saved football for 
Tech a number of years ago, made 
statements about the athletic financial 
policy. 11 is speech was approved by 
the alumni.
SCIENCE JUNIOR CLASS
HOLDS SHORT MEETING
On Monday, November 17. tin 
Junior Class of Science School held a 
meeting in Room 113. A discussion 
of the Junior rPoin took place and a 
committee was appointed to work out 
the preliminary details. A system 
of class dues was inaugurated.
r20fs*P!LCents-ggSSTHE TURKISH CIGARETTE

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 26, 1919.THE TARTAN.f>A<S THfififi
; j"'*  ;
| M0%

---------------------------------------------------

PG>R ___ THE TRTAN. WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 25,'1919.
STUDENT VOLUNTEERS 
HOED BIG MEETING
John W. Townc, Scicncc School, 
Elcctcd Chairman of Sudcnt 
Committee.
Representative students from Tech, 
Pitt, Pennsylvania College for Wom
en and the Western Seminary gather
ed together at the Shadyside Presby
terian Church at 8 p. m., November 
23rd to discuss the matter of sending 
student delegates to the Student Vol
unteer Movement Convention at Dea 
Moines, Iowa, December 31, 11)19, to 
January 4, 1920.
The greatest showing made at tho 
meeting was by Tech representatives 
and they were by far in the majority. 
The meeting was called by and pre
sided over by George T. Miller, the 
chairman of the Student Volunteer 
Committee of Western Pennsylvania, 
and tho meeting was ucldresscd by the 
Reverend Stanley A. Hunter of the 
North Avenue Presbyterian Church 
and Mr. Moore, secretary of the Y. 
M. C. A. University of Pittsburgh. 
Both of these men arc vitally inter
ested in the movement and gave vMvy 
clear talks as to its worth and especial, 
ly of the privilege one would have 
in representing their college.
Carnegie Tech has the chance to 
send 20 delegates to this gieat con
vention and if she does not fulfill her 
full quota some other college which 
has already pledged their number and 
waiting for the chance to send other? 
will take all of our vacant places. It 
is up to Tech to get toget her and send 
their full number of delegates and in 
this, they will be helped to a jreat ex
tent, by the Protestant Churches in 
the neighborhood who are already 
raising funds to send delegates.
The Margaret Movrision Division 
has already pledged four students; 
nearly all the money has been raised. 
For each delegate it will cost approxi
mately $75. Fiye dollars of this which 
goes as the registration fee must be 
in by Friday, November 28. The re
maining $70 would then come later. 
At this meeting Mr. John W. Towne 
was elected as the chairman of the 
Volunteer Movement of Carnegie 
Tech; who with his committee con
sisting of Miss Josephine Whitney, 
John W. Beatty, and Mr. R. D. Foxen, 
will handle all the matters pertaining 
to our institution.
The trip will be made in a special 
train to Des Moines and the con
vention which will last five days, will 
be addressed by the very .iblest men 
in Christendom, and it will be a priv
ilege and an honor to have Tech rep
resented at such a gathering. If you 
are asked to givegive freely.
-OCourleny Onzctto Time.HASTINGS PLOUGHING WAY TO PITTS FIRST TOUCHDOWN AGAINST TECH IN THIRD QUARTER.
MEMORIAL SERVICES EOS
ENTIRE SCHOOL ATTENDS
sinr IE PROCURES 
TULLS FOR SENIORS
At tho regular bi-monthly meeting 
of the student council last Thursday 
In room 101 M. M. I), many import
ant questions wore thrashod out. The 
body has been handicapped so far, in
asmuch as tho Division of tho Arts 
has just recently become organized 
and consequently was not able to have 
its representatives, namely: Senior 
class and senate presidents on hand 
until a week ago, The samo is true 
of tho Student Activities Board and 
tho Athlotle Board of Control. How
ever, in spite of these difficulties, busi
ness has boon carried on in good style 
and all questions relating to tho school 
in general have boon given careful at
tention.
In former years it has boon cus
tomary to infer upon the seniors of 
the institution the honor of eating in 
the school restaurant at tables es
pecially assigned to them and labelled 
"For Seniors Only". They will be 
ready for use in the near future.
Preliminary plans for sending the 
school's quota of delegates to the na
tional college convention to be held 
at Des Moines, Iowa, from December 
31 to January 4 were discussed. A 
committee was appointed and in
structed to be present at Shadyside 
Presbyterian Church, Sunday after
noon, the 23rd of November, where a 
meeting of committees from Tech, 
Pitt and P. C. W. has been called to 
work out in detail the scheme to be 
followed in getting these delegates, 
This is an important movement in 
college circles and every college in 
the country except Catholic will be 
represented. Reservations for 7,000 
students have been made in Des 
Moines. Tech will send about 20 
delegates.
On account of the exceptionally 
long delay on jewelry orders in these 
times, it was deemed advisable to 
make a start on having the Senior 
Class rings made up after a few in
quiries have been made, bids for esti
mates on the contract will be sent to 
leading college jewelers. The Senior 
Class presidents will be asked to find 
out what number will be wanted in 
their respective classes, within a week 
or so.
At the last two meetings, a very 
important subject, that of stimulat
ing school spirit, has boon a sourco of 
much discussion. Two weeks ago a 
committee consisting of the two cheer 
leaders, a couple members of the coun
cil and two men from Science were 
appointed to do its utmost to bring 
back the almost-forgotten old-time 
pep and life which has always exist
ed just before the Tech-Pitt game. 
Various methods of bringing about 
this change in school attitude were 
devised and found very successful.
The next regular meeting will be 
the first Thursday in December.
UNCLE JOHN RECEIVES
WREATH PLACED ON TOMB
The trustees of the Carnegie Insti
tute arranged the following program 
for the memorial service in honor of 
Andrew Carnegie, held in the Carneg
ie Music Hall yesterday, his birthday, 
at 3 o'clock.
Charles Heinroth played Handels 
Largo on the organ; the invocation 
was pronounced by Rev. Dr. Robert 
MacCJowan, pastor of the Bellcfield 
Presbyterian Church; the Pittsburgh 
Male Chorus sang Kiplings Recess
ional;, Charles M. Schwab delivered 
the principal address on The Life 
and Character of Andrew Carnegie; 
Mrs. Christine Miller Clemson sang 
two of Mr. Carnegies favorite songs, 
O Rest in the Lord, from Elijah, 
and But the Lord is Mindful of His 
Own, from St. Paul; the Mayor 
spoke on behalf of the City of Pitts
burgh, A Tribute from the City;r 
the Pittsburgh Male Chorus sang 
Ashes of Roses and When the 
Roses Bloom, and the closing feature 
was an organ number which Mr. Car
negie particularly loved, Beethovens 
Andante from Fifth Symphony, 
played by Mr. Heinroth.
The plan for holding this memorial 
sorvico has evoked so much enthus
iasm that the trustoos of the institut 
decided to have no reserved seats, but 
open the music hall without restric
tion to tho people of Pittsburgh. Mr. 
Carnegie has by his bone factions 
shown a love of humanity which has 
won the admiration and affection of 
tho people and this celebration will 
give the community a welcome op
portunity of expressing Its respect for 
Ids benevolent works.
The whole program was planned 
in consultation with Mrs. Carnegie 
who chose the musical selections from 
those which Mr. Carnegie loved best. 
John A. Poynton, a trustee of the Car
negie Corporation of New York, who 
was Mr. Carnegies secretary, arrived 
here in order to attend the exercises. 
11. A. Franks, vice president and treas
urer of the Carnegie Corporation of 
New York, and J. G. Schmidlapp, a 
trustee of the Carnegie Endowment 
for International Peace, came yester
day morning from New York.
As a further mark of honor to Mr. 
Carnegie all departments of the Car
negie Institute and Library, including 
the branch libraries, were closed from
2 until G oclock, and this afforded 
opportunity for the employes of the 
Carnegie Institute and Library to be 
present at the celebration.
The trustees who composed the com
mittee on memorial service are: Geo.
E. Shaw, John H. Dailey, Robert Gar
land, James H. Lockhart, and John D. 
Shafer.A wreath was placed yesterday on 
Mr. Carnegies tomb by a student of 
Carnegie Institute of Technology, who 
last night went to Tarrytown for that 
purpose. This pilgrimage was insti
tuted not only as a fitting precedent 
for succeeding classes to follow in 
commemoration to Mr. Carnegies 
birthday. Donald B. Templeton, an 
undergraduate in the Division of Sci
ence and Engineering, was selected 
to make the trip. Templeton is presi
dent of the class of 1923, which class 
furnished the necessary funds.
----------ttt-----------INDEX TO FULL-PAGE PHOTOS.
Photos by Walter Thicscn, Post 
Staff Photographer.
First photograph snows Fletcher of 
Tech with ball in opening period. Second photograph shows Hastings of 
Pitt carrying the ball during the first 
quarter. In the third picture, Kratzort of Pitt has the ball in a play that came in the early part of the game. 
Loomis appears in tho fourth picture 
with the ball. This snapshot was ob
tained in the third quarter. Hastings is shown in the lower picture making 
a touchdown in the third period.
Great and lowly Americans, rich, 
poor, the lame,, the blindall joined 
Monday in making the seventy-ninth 
birthday of Uncle John Brashear a 
day ever to be cherished by the most 
eminent Pennsylvanian as one of the 
most pleasurable during his long and 
useful life. More than 5,000 cheery 
greetings came from all parts of the 
countrypost cards, letters and tele
grams of congratulation.
Although the noted old man has 
been ill in bed for two weeks, Monday 
he arose at an early hour and, fully 
dressed, lounged about his room 
throughout the day, at times resting 
upon a couch, but ever perusing with 
keen interest the messages of love that 
were continually being brought to him.
A message from Thomas A. Edison, 
Orange, N. J., read: Heres a thou
sand congratulations to the ever 
young and blithe Uncle John.
From New York this telegram 
came: Love and best wishes and con
gratulations from Mrs. Schwab and 
me to Uncle John on his brithday. 
C. M. Schwab.
From far-away San Francisco, 
Charles C. Moore, former president 
of the Panama-Pacific Exposition, 
sent:
Blind Send Message.
Cordiali greetings and congratula
tions to you on this anniversary day. 
Please accept the words as an expres
sion of sincere respect and esteem.
1 know that your many friends hero, 
could they be consulted, would all join 
me in a message of good wishes for 
your health and continued useful 
activity.
Such messages ploased Uncle 
John exceedingly, but it was a letter 
written In Braille, the dot method of 
communication used by the blind, that 
perhaps most enthused him. The mis
sive was sent; him by the local insti
tute of tho blind. It road:
Dear Uncle John :
We extend to you our most heart
felt greetings for a bright and happy 
birthday, and although you will bo 
remembered by the worlds greatest 
people as well as by the many thou.:ands of boys and girls, 110 hearts are 
more sincere in their wishes than are 
those of your friends in the school for 
the blind. May the recollection of the 
day be a star which shines in the 
heavens for us all, as your life has 
shone into mankind. Your sincere 
friend, Western Pennsylvania Insti 
tute for the Bling.
Will Recover, He Says.
The people are too good, Uncle 
John said. I dont deserve it. Then 
he smiled and with pointing finger in
dicated pictures of Americas great
est men, mighty potentates of the 
Orient, noted women. Of all those 
pictures, he said, there is one I 
prize the most. He gestured toward 
a framed collection of a half-dozen 
snapshots showing himself surround
ed by a half-score blind boys and 
girls of the kindergarten class of the 
local institution.
Im going to get well, Dr. Bra
shear predicted. Ive never quite re
covered from the attack of flu I had 
last winter. Before that I hadnt been 
ill in 50 years.
An admirer had sent a great basket 
of lucious fruit. Men of the John A. 
Brashear shop, adjacent to his home, 
1954 Perrysvillo avenue, as a token of 
their esteem had sent him an exquisite 
assortment of flowers.
Asked what he would do with tho 
immense collection of post cards and 
letters, Dr. Brashear said that ho 
planned to have them arranged on 
panels showing the names of the send
ers. "1 intend answering them all, 
he said, in a general letter through 
the press. A few I fool 1 must re
spond to personally.
Only a fortunate half-dozen were 
able to talk to the sick man, and even 
so, the renowned scientist admitted 
that he was extremely tired long be
fore the afternoon had ended.
AVO CLUB TREATS 
ERDSH WITH SMOKER
The Avo Club smoker given last 
Thursday evening for the freshmen in 
the Electric Equipment and construc
tion Department and the Power Ma
chine Operation department proved to 
be quite a success. The first enter
tainment of the evening was two 
reels of motion pictures which were 
heartily enjoyed. After this came the 
refreshments. At this part of the en
tertainment every one did his part 
well by stowing away a liberal amount 
of the varied refreshments provided. 
Mr. C. M. Brand, foreman of Electric 
Work on the Baltimore and Ohio 
railroad and a charter member of the 
Avo Club, gave quite an interesting 
talk on how and why the Avo Club 
was originally organized. He also 
told of the bright future in store for 
the club because of the amount of 
material we have to draw from this 
year. Mr. ICeenen of the A night 
class rendered two vocal solos that 
were well worthy of mention. Pro
fessor Calderwood also gave an 
interesting and helpful talk. Mr. Guy
ton, president of the club, outlined 
some of the activities which the club 
expected to have in the future. These 
were discussed with much interest by 
the fellows. There were many other 
feature too numerous to mention 
which when everything is told make 
us all feel that we had a fine time. 
----------$-----------
Knock em vicious?NopeWell, 
maybe it isnt. Any suggestion offer
ed by any one but its members and 
instigators of this organization of she
ll olsheviks are greatly appreciated. 
What they are doing and what they 
have done is evident but what is want
ed is information as to their chief aim. 
This gang of ladies has turned the 
student body (of Design School) up
side down until it is in the form of a 
question mark. Wont some one please 
give us some dope on the subject and 
not keep us in suspense any longer. .. 
Can it be they are rivals ofooooh! 
M. P. L?
----------D-----------
M. IW. D. NOMINEES FOR 
STUDENT VOLUNTEER CONFERENCE
DEPARTMENT HEAD SERVES
The following girls were nominated 
as delegates to the Student Volunteer 
Conference to be held at Des Moines.
Seniors:
Mary Bechtel,
Eleanor Cox.
Juniors:
Eleanor McCarson,
Louise Irvin.
Sophomores:
Josephine Whitney,
Gladys Ramsay.
Plebes:
Dorothy Grant,
Lillian Coleman.
----------0-----------
NEWMAN CLUB DANCE.
The Newman Clubs first dance of 
the school year, held last Tuesday 
evening in the K. of C. Council House 
on Fifth avenue was quite a success. 
A great many Pitt and Tech students 
attended and for awhile were friends 
as well as rivals. The music was es
pecially good and was greatly appre
ciated by the dancers. The chape
rons for the dance wore Mr. and Mrs.
F. J. Lanahan, Mr. and Mrs. W. A. 
Lanz and Mr. and Mrs. W. H. Griffin.
The regular monthly meeting of the 
club was held last Sunday in the 
Cathedral High School.
-----------O-----------
WITH the Nobel prize for chem
istry awarded to Hun poison-gas professors, it seems that honorable men
tion belongs to the deadly fumes of 
limburger.
Assists in Mine Wage Probe
Edward Steidle, associate professor 
of mining engineering, in special 
charge of the cooperative department 
of mining engineering of Carnegie In
stitute of Technology, has recently re
turned from New York, where he has 
been serving on the Congressional 
Joint Commission on Reclassification 
of Government Positions and Salaries. 
This commission, which was created 
by act of Congress, is composed of 
five Senators, together with represen
tatives of various government depart
ments. Mr. Steidle, whose capacity 
is that of wage specialist in the min
ing field, will soon go to Cleveland, 
Ohio, and to Fairmont, W. Va., to 
make investigations for commission.-----------D-----------IN MEMORIAM TO PITT. 
(With apology to Kipling)
Near C. I. T.s dear campus, far above 
the smoke and dirt,
Theres a Tartan flag a-fiying, where 
its safe from harm and hurt.
In the wind it bravely flutters and it 
seems to boldly say,
Come and get me, Pittsburgs student, 
come and get me if you may.
Chorus:
Come and get me if you may, for, I 
taunt you every day.
Cant you see my colors flying to the 
people on their way?
Come and get me if you may, for I 
haunt you night and day,
And Ive come to float oer Pittsburgh, 
and Ive come to always stay.
My colors are the Tartan, and my let
ters stand for Tech,
And I flaunt before you Pittites, the 
dear Carnegie Tech.
I was put here in the morning before 
the sun did rise,
And during that great battle, I did 
wave before your eyes.
Still unconquered flag of cloth, 
Floating now from South to North. 
Here I am, where I would be, where 
there should be U. of P.
Chorus:
Tween the halves when first you saw 
me, far above the mighty throng, 
And the Skibes madly cheering, had 
drowned your feeble song,
It was then you tried to get me, atop 
this greasy pole.
But I simply laughed and fluttered, for 
you couldnt get a hold..
Panther, squirming up my base,
You did make a noble race;
But your efforts were in vain, tho you 
struggled might and main.
Chorus:
Here I float oer smoky Pittsburgh, 
and twill always be your shame 
That the flag that flew oer Forbes 
Field, did not bear your name. 
OH, the Techites they are cheering, 
and tis here that I would be,
A symbol of Tech spirit, the dear old 
C. I. T.
Contributed by W. A. 
Anderson.
----------U-----------PITT FRESHIES
OVERCOME PLEBES 
(Continued from page 1.) 
made several long runs on criss-cross 
plays, that helped in the scoring. Two 
forward passes from Hendrian to 
Claywson were largely responsible for 
one touchdown.
The Plebes battled gamely on the 
defense against these great odds, but 
showed the poorest offense presented 
against the Cubs during the season. 
Brumbaugh, the fullback, prevented 
the Cubs from enlarging the score by 
his punting. The Plebes failed miser
ably in their many attempts at for
ward passing due to inaccuracy.
Liehenstein, the center, was the 
only diamond in the rough, and guard
ed so well that the Cubs soon learned 
to give him a wide berth when at
tempting line smashes. The Freshies 
generally hit off-tackle for the big 
gains; even so, Liehenstein injected 
his personality into the majority of 
the plays and several times nailed the 
man with the ball behind the line be
fore the play was fairly started. The 
lineup:
Pitt Freshmen39 Tech Plebes0
Clawson.............L. E........................Fischer
Sacklowsky-----L. T..................... Griffin
Snyder...............L. G......................Hengnn
Magarrall.........C.................Liehenstein
Clark..................R. G.......................Messers
Williams ...........R. T........... McCormick
Hartnett..............R. E.......................Witzel
Hendrian...........Q...............................Gibson
Anderson..........L. H.........................Emery
Byers..................R. H....Anderson
Hewitt..................F...............Brumbaugh
Score by periods:
Pitt Freshies................ 6 19 2639
Tech Plebes.................. 0 0 0 0
SubstitutionsMcLean for Messers, 
Hawkins for Fischer. Touchdowns 
Hendrian 4, Hewitt 2. Goals from 
touchdownsHendrian 3. Referee
F. A. Godcharles of Layfayette. Um
pireJ. C. Iiolderness of Lehigh. 
LinesmanAudley McFarland of W. 
& J.
The Scoring.
The story of the scoring follows: 
In the first quarter Brumbaugh punt
ed to Hewitt on the 15-yard line, who 
returned 15. Brumbaugh intercepted 
a forward pass on the Plebes 45-yard 
line. Brumbaugh punted to Hewitt, 
who was downed on the Plebes 50- 
yard line. Line plunges by Hewitt, 
Anderson and Byers netted 25 yards. 
Hendrian made 12 off tackle. Claw
son made five around end and Hen
drian dashed over the remaining dis
tance. Hendrian failed to kick goal. 
The Cubs repeated the march down 
the field after tho next kickoff and 
Hendrian tried a goal from placement, 
which failed. The quarter ended with 
the ball on the Cubs 20-yard line. 
Cubs, 6; Plebes, 0.
In the second quarter a forward 
from Brumbaugh to Fischer failed. 
Brumbaugh kicked to Hendrian on 
Cubs 40-yard line. Hendrian made 25 
around end. Hewitt made 10 through 
left tackle. A forward from Hendrian 
to Clawson netted 10, and Hewitt 
scored on a short end smash. Hen
drian added another point on the kick. 
Cubs, 13; Plebes, 0.
Hendrian punted to Emery, who 
was downed on the 30-yard line. 
Brumbaugh punted to Hendrian on 
the 40-yard line. A beautiful forward 
pass from Hendrian to Clawson 
placed the pigskin on the Plebes 20- 
yard line . Hendrian made seven off 
guard. Another forward from Hen
drian to Clawson netted five. Hewitt 
carried it over on the next plunge at 
left tackle. Hendrian failed to kick 
the goal. The half ended shortly af
terwards.
In the start of the second half Hen
drian punted to Anderson on Plebes 
15-yard line. On the first Plebe play 
Clawson intercepted a forward pass on 
the 20-yard line. The Cubs failed to 
complete a forward pass on the fourth 
down and lost the ball. Brumbaugh 
punted to Hendrian, who touched the 
ball down on the Plebes 35-yard line. 
Byers made 15 around end. Hewitt 
made 10 through tackle, and Ander
son three.
Hendrian crashed through the re
maining distance. Score', Cubs, 2; 
Plebes, 0.
In the fourth quarter the Cubs had 
the ball on the 30-yard line. Hartnet 
made five around end. Line plunges 
by Anderson, Hewitt and Byers netted 
14 yards. Clawson made four yards 
around end. Hendrian ran around end 
for the touchdown. Hendrian kicked 
goal. Score, Cubs, 33; Plebes, 0. Near 
the end of the quarter Brumbaugh 
kicked to Byers, who returned to the 
Freshies 45-yard line. A forward 
pass failed. On the next play Hen
drian made a delayed line plunge and 
circled right end past the entire Plebe 
team for a touchdown. Hendrian 
failed to kick goal. The game ended 
with the ball in the Cubs possession.
Score, Pitt Freshmen, 39; Carnegie 
Tech Plebes, 0.

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY,' NOVEMBER 26, im.THE TARTANTP AGB-FI VE -
CUT DOWN YOUR SHOE 
EXPENSE by buying better gj 
2 'Shoes. You will find them far S 
| cheaper to wear than shoes ^ 
which are not so high in quality, g. 
- Our new models for FALL and [| 
WINTER are now in, and they & 
are full of snapjust suitable = 
1 for the college man. g.
If your fountain pen is in need of 
repairs, if you need a new, satisfactory 
pen or eversharp pencil, stationery, 
dance programs, favors, special felt 
goods or Tech recognition pins, call 
at SINGER PEN & GIFT SHOP in 
Jenkins Arcade.Adv.
BollSchenley 389
MISS OLEARY
(Formerly with J. E. T. Shuman) 
DRY CLEANINGREPAIRING 
Ladies and Men's Clothes, Carpets 
Work Guaranteed and Turned Out on Short Notice.
Will call for all pressing and cloaning at Frat Houses.
3933 FORBES STREET (Oakland) 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
TECH BARBER SHOP
NEAREST TO TECH
Cor. Craig and Forbes q
FRED FARGEL, Proprietor, fj
Nearest and Best Laundry j* 
Agency. f)
Oakland Methodist Episcopal 
Church and Community House. Forbes and Boquet Streets.
[Room Directory, Recreation Room, 
Reading Room.r
)ont miss the Sunday Open House, 
4:307:30 P. M.
Supper at 6:00  20 cents. 
Snappy Address  6:45-7:15 
Students Cordially Welcomed.
IllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllUillllilllllll
C. M Stauft
3702 FORBES STREET 
TECH & PITT STATIONERY 
Moore, Waterman and Parker 
Fountain Pens.
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
DR. HUGH B. SPEER, Pastor 
Shady and Northumberland Avenues 
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. 
Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M. 
and 8:00 P. M.Young Peoples Service, 7:00 P. M. 
Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages. 
A cordial welcome to all.
BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN 
CHURCH 
Bellefield and Fifth Avenues
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D., 
Minister.
Preaching Services 11 and 8. 
Sunday school at 10.
Christian Endeavor at 7.
We want the Tech boys to at- lend our services and learn to 
; know us as the congregation of I Friendly People. A hearty
 welcome awaits you.
ASCENSION EPISCOPAL CHURCH 
Ellsworth Avenue and Neville Street 
DR. WYATT BROWN, Rector 
DR. ROSS R. CALVIN, Assistant. Sunday Servloes, 8:00 A. M., 11:00 
A. M. and 8:00 P. M.College Men's Bible Class at 10:00, 
led by Dr. Calvin.
All Students Genuinely Welcome.
Grace Church
(Reformed)
BAYARD and DITHRIDGE STREET8 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister. 
SERVICES:Sunday School9:45 A. M.Morning Worship11 A. M. 
Christian Endeavor7 P. M. 
Popular Evening Services at 7:45. 
Sermons for Head and Heart. 
Hearty Welcome for All.
ST. PAUL'S CATHEDRAL 
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.
Masses: 6:30, 8:00, 9:00, 10:00 and11:00 A. M. on Sundays and Holy 
Days.Vespers on Sundays at 7:30 P. M. Pew 58, Middle Aisle, for Tech Stu
dent*.
Fraternity Notes
XI SIGMA UPSILON.
The fraternity held an enjoyable 
movie party last Wednesday evening 
at the Regent Theater. The party 
consisted of. about twenty members 
and friends. After the show an im
promptu luncheon was served at 
Walshs Cafe.
The fraternity wishes to announce 
the pledging of the following:
John W. Towne, Science Senior; 
Donald B. Templeton, W. A. Holt, 
Clarence C. Richards and E. J. Hol
comb, Science Freshmen.
-----------D-----------
SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON.
Thursday evening, November 20, an 
informal dance was held at the chap
ter house. About thirty couples at
tended, and enjoyed one of the best 
dances which has been held at the 
house for some months. The features 
of the dance were the music and the 
decorations. The music was by Maggios orchestra, and in the opinion of 
all who attended, was the finest that 
has been danced to this season. The 
guests and alumni who attended were: 
Mrs. and Mr. D. T. James, L. M. Col
lins, Sidney F. Heckert, G. R. Chain, 
Chip Bowman, and Fred. E. Haller.
-----------8-----------
TAU GAMMA PHI.
Tau Gamma Phi fraternity enter
tained their alumni and pledges at a 
banquet in the Dutch Room of the 
Fort Pitt Hotel, Saturday evening. 
This was the first reunion of the 
alumni and active members for sev
eral years. All but six of the alumni 
were present. From out of town were: 
Messrs. Olmsted, Weigold and Miller 
from Detroit, Mr. Paca from Canton, 
Mr. L. C. Smith from Akron, Mr. 
Konnerth from Erie and Mr. Heston 
from Youngstown. They all arrived 
in time for the game in the afternoon, 
the results of which put everybody in 
excellent spirits for the banquet in 
the evening.
SAVE TIMEby having your shoes 
repaired while you wait.
NEWMAN - HARRIS
of Pittsburgh
FINE SHOE REPAIRING
Special facilities for repairing 
ladies shoes.
3811 Fifth Ave., Corner Bouquet St.
EPACKSEH CAN SCLYY
piiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniii^
m LostA small silver mesh-bag jj 
j on Woodlawn Ave. or Forbes M 
j St. between Woodlawn and g 
M Morewood, last Wednesday af- g 
jg ternoon. Finder please return g: 
f to Miss Moore, matron of Mar- = 
H garet Morrison. 
illlllllllllllllllllllllllliilllllllUllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllll^
J TRANSITS AND LEVELS
3 ALL SUPPLIES FOR THE 
13 DRAFTING ROOM
S Engineers Equipment, Instru- 1 
gj ments of Precision, Blue Print 
3] and Brown Print Papers and 
||j Cloths.
1 B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
126 SIXTH STREET
The menu was well selected and the 
programs were considered by many to 
be quite artistic.
President Bergstrom, toastmaster, 
called on many of the alumni to ex
press themselves, which they did with 
terse snappy talks.
It was one grand glorious reunion, 
and everybody had a wonderful time. 
No one made any attempts to leave 
till the wee sma hours.
The evening was jazzed up consid
erably by One Ham Burdick at the 
piano with Moke Olmsted on his 
scarred and battered banjo. A good 
time you say? Yea, Bo!
We entertained our alumni and 
their wives at tea Sunday afternoon 
from three till five oclock. Mr. O. R. 
Olmsted, Mrs. A. L. Hestr, Mrs. H. L. 
Spencer and Mrs. C. Kleppman were 
among the ladies present.
-----------B-----------
THE DRAGON.
On Tuesday, November 18th, The 
Dragon, the Senior Honorary Society 
was formally founded. Members are 
drawn from the three mens schools. 
The following are the Charter mem
bers:
Science School: L. Dale Aul, J. D. 
Beatty, N. J. Campbell, H. F. Carey, 
G. C. Clark, M. A. Fair, E. F. Hirsch, 
C. K. Little, P. P. Marshall, J. L. 
Miller, -E. H. Pafenbach, G. C. Stone, 
J. F. Sweeny, Jr., M. F. Yelle.
Design School: H. F. Bremmer, J. 
P. Davis, M. E. Green, S. P. Stewart.
Industries School: J. W. Batman.
WOODLAWN CLUB.
On Friday evening, after the per
formance of Bohemia Unlimited, a 
short informal dance was held at the 
house, about twenty couple attending. 
Refreshments were served and the 
dancing continued until an early hour. 
Music was furnished by the house jazz 
band, who cheerfully slaughtered 
everything popular since 1492.
During the week end many of our 
Alumni returned for the first alumni 
reunion since 1917. With the Ex
travaganza and the Pitt-Tech 
game as the main attractions for this 
week, they surely arrived at an op
portune time. After the game din
ner was served at the house; a social 
meeting, making a real get together 
of the old and new men, completed 
the evening.
-----------D-----------
DELTA UPSILON 
The Delta Upsilon took advantage 
of the occasion of the Pitt-Tech game 
to hold an alumni reunion. About 
thirty of the old men were back, in
cluding a good number from out of 
town. On Friday evening a large 
number went to Bohemia Unlimited, 
and after the show sat around and 
talked a good part of the night. On 
Saturday morning there was a sight
seeing trip around school, which trip 
brought back many reminiscences of 
the good old times. In the afternoon, 
of courdse everybody went to the 
game and the alumni certainly were 
not lacking in old-time pep. There 
were lots of them who could not talk 
after the game.
The big event, as far as the frater
nity itself was concerned, was the 
banquet in the evening at the Univer
sity Club. During the meal entertain
ment was furnished by some of the 
members of the extravaganza cast. 
Brother Willard and Miss Dutney 
sang Magic Moon, and Brothers 
Ried and Muller and Miss Scott sang 
Jazz Fever. Both songs were well 
done and every one enjoyed them im
mensely. The toastmaster was Roi
ly Wilson 15 who filled his place 
well. The first speaker was Brother 
Leete, Colgate 94 who talked on C. 
I. T., Past, Present and Future. The 
next speaker was Brother Little 20, 
who told of what the active chapter 
was doing. Brother Lain '16 talked 
on the Carnegie Chapter Alumni and 
Brother Schreiner, Michigan 99 out
lined the activities of the Delta Up
silon Alumni clubs. Brothers Morey 
and Eaton also gave short talks. The 
banquet broke up early because of the 
smoker and the extravaganza.
----------D-----------
DELTA EPSILON OMEGA 
The fraternity held its first initia
tion of the year November 22 at the 
Fort Pitt Hotel. The following men 
were initiated:
R. C. Altermatt, W. A. Lusby, L. 
C. Morrison, B. S. Shumate, C. A. 
Smith, J. W. Zimmer.
After the initiation the members 
spent a very enjoyable evening at the 
banquet table. Quite a number of the 
alumni brothers were present, having come back to be present at the 
Pitt-Tech game.
Among the alumni brothers were: 
Fred H. Curtis, J. R. Hoxworth, W. 
G. McCurdy, F. J. OBrien, T. . H. 
Reed, John H. Schenk, Thos. J. Wil
liams, H. J. Bergwall, J. J. Downes, 
J. N. Galley, E. Geist, C. H. McNary, 
R. J. Weaer, V. V. Young.
-----------0-----------
TEAM SPRINGS SURPRISE
ON PANTHER ELEVEN 
(Continued from page 1.) 
to receive. But the pigskin never 
completed its journey Davies tearing 
loose from the scrimmage snatched 
the ball and ripped down field. Mar
shall in close pusuit was the swifter 
of the two and brought Davies down 
on Techs 44-yard line. Time for the 
half was now called.
The third quarter marked the be
ginning of the Tech downfall. It was 
impossible to maintain the terrific 
pace which they had set in the first 
half especially against a comparative
ly frseh backfield. There are physical 
limitations to which even the most in 
trepid, undying spirit must bow.
Davies opened the third period by 
advancing the ball 23 yards on a triple 
pass. Here a sustained Pitt line at
tack finally wormed it across for a
touchdown. Davies kicked the goal.
In the final quarter fate apparently 
deserted the Tartan causc. Moon came 
in for a streak of hard luck when he 
dropped a low pass from Irwin which 
Pitt recovered on the 20-yard line. 
Pitt again launched a furious attack 
and although met with the most stub
born resistance finally forced the ball 
over for the second touchdown. Dav
ies again, kicked goal.
Moon , again later was hurried into 
a kick and booted the ball straight in
to the air, which was caught by Stein 
on the Tech 28-yard line. Davies 
kicked a field goal from this point 
completing the scoring for the game. 
The game by quarters:
First Quarter.
Pitt won the toss and decided to re
ceive the kickoff. Williams kicked to 
Ginn on Pitts 43-yard line. Ginn fum
bled and Marshall recovered. Marshall 
hit right tackle for 8 yards. Loomis 
made first down on Pitts 32-yard line. 
Baldwin made two on a wide end run. 
Marshall turned right end for seven 
more. Marshall lost three yards at 
the same place and a forward pass 
failed. Pitt's ball on her own 25-yard 
line. Pitt was offside and was penal
ized five yards and Breman found a 
hole at right tackle for six yards. 
Aschmann kicked 50 yards to Flecher 
on Techs 24-yard line.
Fletcher made three yards at right 
tackle. Marshall picked up four more. 
Baldwin made first down on the 30- 
yard line. Fletcher failed at center. 
Marshall failed at center. Marshall 
got three at right tackle. Moon kick
ed to Laughran on Pitts 28-yard line 
and Speedo returned to the 37-yard 
line. Breman fumbled. Williams re
covered for Tech on Pitts 38-yard 
line.
Fletcher made four yards on a wide 
run around right end. Loomis added 
three more on a plunge through cent
er. Marshall made two at center. 
Fletcher bucked center for a first 
down on Pitts 27-yard line. Marshall 
lost two yards at left end. Loomis 
hit a stonewall at center. A double 
pass with a forward tackle on the end 
failed. Marshalls drop kick was 
blocked; Kratzert recovered for Pitt 
on her own 29-yard line.
Breman failed. Aschmann lost four 
on a wide end run.
Fletcher received Aschmanns punt 
on his 35-yard line and returned 10 
yards.
Fletcher failed at left end. .Loomis 
lost three yards at right end. Mar
shall failed at the left side. Moon 
kicked to Laughran on Pitts 29-yard 
line. Speedo was smeared in his 
tracks.
Aschmann broke through the line 
for 18 yards to Pitts 47-yard line. 
Laughran turned Techs right end for 
25 yards. Fletcher stopped him in 
open field. Breman gained a yard in 
the line. Aschmann was smeared for 
a two-yard loss at left end.
The quarter ended with the ball in 
Pitts possession on Techs 25-yard 
line.
Second Quarter.
Tech was off side on the next play 
and was penalized 5 yards. Breman 
plunged through center for 4 yards. 
Laughran made 3 on a double pass 
from Hamburger. A lateral pass, 
Laughran to Breman, fouled. Ssclimanns placement kick was caught by 
Marshall on his own 8-yard line. Mar
shall outran the pack for a touchdown. 
The run of 92 yards was very spec
tacular, as numerous would-be tacklers failed in their efforts to overhaul 
him. Laughran made a valiant ef
fort in the 10-yard line but slipped 
by Phil. Fletcher kicked goal.
ScoreTech 7; Pitt 0.
Hamburger received Williams kickoff on his own 3-yard line. Breman 
made 3 yards at right guard. Laugh
ran failed to gain. Breman made 2 
on a fake kick. Fletcher returned 
Aschmanns punt from his own 35 to 
the 42-yard line. Tech was offside 
and penalized 5 yards.
McCracken was substituted for Mc
Donald. Davies for Hamburger. Mor
row for Aschmann. Davies made 5 
on the first play. Laughran added 3 
at left end. Breman hit the pack for 
a first down on Techs 45-yard line. 
Tech was offside, but Davies made 9 
yards at left end. Pitt refused the 
penalty. Breman made first down on 
the 34-yard line. Breman hit the line 
for 3 yards. Breman made one more 
at center. A double pass, Breman to 
Davies, whose forward pass to Laugh
ran was butted to the ground. Davies 
was smeared for a 7 yard loss. Techs 
ball on her own 32-yard line.
Fletcher ran right end for 18 yards. 
Marshall made 3 at center. Loomis 
added 2 more. Fletchers pass to Godden netted 25 more. Marshall hit the 
line for 6 yards. Fletcher failed at 
laft end. Marshall made a yard on a 
fake pass. Loomis made a first down 
on Pitts end for 2 yards. Loomis fail
ed at center. Davies intercepted 
Fletchers pass back of the line and 
ran 56 yards to Techs 44-yard line.
Laughran made 3 at left tackle.
Laughran made 3 at left tackle. 
Davies made 2 more on the line. Dav
ies long pass to Laughran failed. Dav
ies failed at left end. Tech's ball on 
her own 38-yard line. Loomis found 
a hole at right tackle for 2 yards. The 
half ended with the ball in Techs pos
session on her own 40-yard line.
ScoreTech 7; Pitt 0.
Third Quarter.
Hastings kicked off to Baldwin at 
back of the goal line. Baldwin return
ed to the 30-yard line. Loomis made 
three yards at left tackle. Baldwin 
was smeared for a yard loss at left 
end. Fletcher picked up two yards at 
center. Davies added two more at 
who returned three yards to his own 
37-yard line. Hastings got two yards 
i at center. Davies lost three at the
other end. Hastings kicked to Fletclb 
er on his own 20-yard line. Ewing 
downed him in his tracks. Loomis 
made two at the left side. Marshall 
got four, but was hurt on the play. 
Loomis made first down on the 31- 
yard line. Loomis was held for no 
gain. Fletcher was smeared for a 
loss of two yards. Davies ran Moons 
punt back from his own 15 to the 30- 
yard line. Hastings made three yards 
at right tackle. Davies made first 
down on the 42-yard line. Morrow 
got six in a fake pass. Hastings made 
first down through left tackle.
Hastings failed on a fake pass. 
Davies failed at right end. A triple 
pass, Laughran to Hastings to Davies, 
netted 23 yards. Laughran picked up 
two at right tackle. Hastings added 
seven at the left side. Morrow made 
first down on Techs 17-yard line. Dav
ies failed on a wide end run. Davies 
made four on a double pass from Hast 
ings. Hastings got five in the line. 
Hastings carried the ball to Tech's 
one-yard line. Hastings dove through 
center for a touchdown. Pitt showed 
a very good offense, carrying the ball 
from her own 15-yard line to a touch
down. Six first downs were made. 
Davies kicked goal. Score, Pitt 7, 
Tech 7.
Hastings kicked off to Baldwin, who 
ran out of bounds on his own 31- yard 
line after a return of two yards. 
Loomis made two at center. Tech was 
offside and pas penalized five yards. 
Baldwin was smothered at right end. 
Loomis lost three more at center. A 
forward pass failed. Moon fumbled 
a bad pass from Irwin. Pitts ball 
on Techs 20-yard line.
Fourth Quarter.
Davies lost three yards on a double 
pass from Hastings. Hastings found 
a hole for four yards at left tackle. 
Davies made six at left end. Hastings 
made first down through right tackle 
on Techs eight-yard line. Hastings 
plunged through center for three yds. 
and Morrow made two more at the left 
side. Hastings plunged through left 
tackle for a touchdown. Davies kick
ed goal. Score, Pitt 14, Tech 7.
Hastings kicked to Baldwin, who 
ran out of bounds on his own 27-yard 
line. Fletcher turned left end for 7 
yards. Loomis made a yard. Fletcher 
got another at the left end. Loomis 
made first down on the 39-yard line. 
Baldwin picked up nine yards at the 
tackle. Fletcher failed at right end. 
Davies intercepted Fletchers pass on 
his own 10-yard line and was thrown 
out of bounds on his own 28-yard line.
Laughran lost three at right end. 
Davies picked up nine yards oil a fake 
kick. Morrow failed o na wide end 
run. Davies kicked out oC bounds 
on Tech's 30-yard line.
Baldwin failed at left tackle. Fletcli 
er lost two at right end. Marshall lost 
two more at the other extremity. 
Moon kicked high to Stein on Techs 
40-yard line. Davies made six at cent
er. Krotzer picked up eight yards at 
right tackle. Davies got four at loft 
guard. Pitt was offside and drew a 
penalty of five yards. A triple pass. 
Krotzer tC Laughran to Davies, fail 
ed. Peters made four yards at right 
end. Davies place kicked a goal from 
the 28-yard line. The try was from a 
very difficult angle.
Score, Pitt 17, Tech 7.
Hastings kicked to' Bloom, who re
turned 10 yards to the 35-yard line. 
Marshall found a hole for a first down 
on the 45-yard line.
The game ended with the ball in 
Techs possession on her own 45-yard 
line.
The Mellon National Bank is 
one of the most thoroughly 
organized, strongest financial 
institutions on the country. 
It is in a position to handle 
any account, large or small, 
with care and competency.
MELLON NATIONAL BANK
Pittsburgh, Pa.
EXPRESS AND 
TRANSFER COMPANY
Boll Phones 578 A 9169 Schenley 
P. A A. 1092-R 
229 ATWOOD STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Household Goods Moved, Stored, 
Packed and Shipped.
gxmimtmimiimmuumtwtmmtmm
THE PLACE WHERE
STUDENTS
TAKE THEIR SHOES
Bellefield 
Shoe Repairing Co.
I Across from the Library
L
OAKLAND 
SAVINGS & TRUST 
COMPANY
Member Federal Reserve System 
Capital - - - $200,000.00 
Surplus and Undivided
Profits - - $260,000.90 
Deposits, Over - $4,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
DELICIOUS CAKES
-for
SOCIAL AFFAIRS
at------
THE HALLER BAKERY
3610 FORBES STREET 
IROQUOIS BLOCK
minim
SKIB0 INN
EATS
Cigars and Candy
ST IT DENTS W101 .COM 10
Fred Suddaby s Cafeteria
J BUREAU OF MINES BUILDING
11 A. M. to 2 P. M. Every School l)uv X__________________________________________|________________'
GREAT EATS AT
THE SCHENLEY LUNCH 
;!; FORBES AND CRAIG STREETSt PEED STJDDABY, Proprietor
OAKLAND HARDWARE COMPANY 
Pocket Knives Mazda Lamps
3606 FORBES STREET
AL LA PLACE
Formerly of William Penn and Fort Pitt Hotel 
I AM SERVING
--------------A--------------
Clean, Wholesome and Home Cooked Dinner for 35c
--------------At--------------
STAN D?ARJD .RESTAURANT 
3621 FIFTH AVENUE NEAR ATWOOD STREET
l!llillllUI!lllltHIIIII!llillBIIIHIIW!M^
OPEN DAY AND NIGHT PARK 411-R
EAT AT THE
SAVOY RESTAURANT
SPECIAL STUDENTS LUNCH
3807 FIFTH AVE. g
HELLO, BILL, MEET ME AT THE
OAKLAND KITCHEN
116 OAKLAND AVENUE

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 26, 1019.THE TARTANPAt Sfc
Those who seemed to be appreciated 
most were Mary Ricards, Neal Cald
well, Carl B. Reid, with his song Es
kimo Baby", Marie Dutney, Jack Wil
lard, Margaret Scott, Hans Muller, 
Ellen Crowe and Carolyn Mering.
The Gazette Times comments as 
follows:DO YOU DANCE?
DANCING LESSONSCLASS AND PRIVATE
Last Thursday evening the Carnegie 
Union was filled with a group of jolly 
good fellows such as only belong to 
he musical clubs. About eighty mem
bers attended and every one who came 
pronounced the affair as a grand suc
cess.
Although not all smoked, there was 
plenty of other diversionsthe cider 
keg and pretzels. Near the end of the 
evening's fun there still remained 
some of the liquid refreshment and 
quite a few members loathe to leave 
the spigots divulge.
A line entertainment was rendered 
by various members of the clubs. A 
jazzy orchestra rendered a number of 
the jazziest jazz pieces ever jazzed. 
The jazzers were, Kovack and Heinle, 
violins; Sweeney, mandolin; Boggley, 
guitar; and Osier, banjo. A reading 
was given by Wallace followed by a 
song by McMoun. Another reading 
was presented by Kenny and an 
Italian solo by Venditti. More jazz 
and smokes.
Following the above; Don Sillers 
made his appearance, with a specialty 
called The Clean-up Man". This 
was one of the big hits of the program 
with his one string mop-violin. Sev
eral readings and a monologue were 
presented by Repplie which scored 
exceptionally good and another read
ing of good humor by Turcotte.
The executive committee was very 
much pleased with the way the fel
lows turned out with the various 
stunts and were surprised to see such 
promising material.
Mr. Sweeney gave a short talk on 
the value and prospects of the clubs 
in respect to this years work. Sev
eral long trips are planned and the 
management is working hard to put 
them across. #
During the evening the fellows were 
exceptionally lucky to have the oldtime end-man Art" Knohr with them. 
He gave a short talk about past years 
and ended by presenting several of 
the good readings and jokes for which 
he is noted.
The evenings enjoyment ended 
around the cider keg.
Tech Students Score Hit in Bo
hemia Unlimited.
A musical extravaganza, Bohemia 
Unlimited, was given by students of 
Carnegie Institute of Technology last 
night in the Schenley Theater, under 
the auspices of the Division of Arts. 
About 100 took part. The principal 
parts were well taken and the chorus 
performed creditably. There were 16 
scenes and in most of them the per
formers were beautifully costumed. 
The lines of the different sketches 
were humorous and the music tuneful.
There was a large number of solo
ists and also many who pi-ovided dance 
specialties. One of the latter was 
Mary Ricards, who, during a sketch 
called The Joy Shop of the Nile in 
the character of Haluma, a dancer, 
gave a very fine exhibition. In the 
same act Ellen Crowe, assisted by the 
chorus, won much applause after her 
song. A dance act by Grey McCauley 
and Lawrence Paquin also scored a 
hit.
The performance, written by Tech 
students, was staged by Alexander 
L. Buchanan. It will be repeated to
night.
It can plainly be seen that the show 
was a success in every sense of the 
word.
The writer thinks it only fair to add 
that, through an error on the part 
of the reporters a mistake was made 
in at least two cases and credit given 
to members of the cast who did not 
appear in the numbers mentioned to 
such advantage as to warrant the 
praise given. Howard Claney should 
have had the mention given to Law
rence Paqnin in The Hulu Lulu pan
tomime and Carolyn Mering sang 
Egypt in a manner which caused 
the critic to give her special mention, 
making the mistake, however, of 
crediting the performance to Miss 
Crowe.
CRAIG AND FORBESBELL PHONE
package
before
simiiniiniiEiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiniiQiiiil'mmiiiiHiiiiimnraiiiiiiiminniiniiniiiiiiigRngiiiiiEiiuiiunmiuEimiiniiiiinniiiimii
436 SEVENTH AVE. 
All Kinds of Batteries 
Repaired and Rechargedpackage
during
c a package
LASTS
PRICE!
THE FLAUOR 
SO DOES THE
TRADE
A PIPES the thing with men. Under the spell of 
W D C Pipes men relax, fagged brains are relieved. 
The specially seasoned genuine French briar breaks in sweet 
and mellow. It will not crack or burn through. The 
W D C Triangle on the bowl is your guarantee. Ask any 
good dealer.
WM. DEMUTH & CO.. NEW YORK
WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES
The general assembly last Wednes
day was held in Carnegie Music Hall 
so that everybody could practice the 
yells together and get up pep for the 
Pitt-Tech game. After a selection by 
the band Battman took charge of the 
meeting. Following the announce
ments Coach Steffen gave a little talk. 
He told of what kind of a team we 
were up against and of how our boys 
would have to light to make any head
way against them. He told of how 
much good cheering would help the 
team and urged everyone to put their 
wliolo soul into the cheering. He said 
that this year we would have to cheer 
extra well to beat the Pitt cheering 
for the school across the hollow has 
more spirit than formerly. Coach 
Steffen also announced that, this 
would be his last game with Tech, as 
ho is not coming back this season. 
The student body gave a rising vote 
of appreciation for his fine work at 
Carnegie Tech.
After Steffen's speech thcro was 
ehopring practice. All of the, new 
yells were tried a number of times 
until they were done together and a 
number of now stunts were explained 
and practiced. After the announce
ment of other cheering meetings the 
assembly adjourned.
just
enough
Turkish
T
HE only cigarette above the cheapest brands 
that has ever won a tremendous, nation-wide 
popularity is Fatima.
Fatimas sales nearly equal those of all the straight 
Turkish cigarettes combined; and no other cigarette 
costing as much as Fatima has one-half of Fatimas 
annual sales.
The reason may be that Fatima contains more 
Turkish than any other Turkish blend. This would 
mean, in other words, that instead of containing too 
much Turkish as straight Turkish cigarettes do, or 
too little as in the poorer Turkish blends, Fatimas 
famous blend contains just enough Turkish just 
enough to taste right and just enough to leave a man 
feeling right even after smoking more than usual.
Nationally 
Known in 
Know Time
M. M. D. DEAN ILL.
Dean Breed, who has been ill for 
several weeks with tonsilitis is now in 
Atlantic City recuperating. She will 
return to school soon.
BOHEMIA UNLIMITED
PACKS SCHENLEY THEATRE 
(Continued from page 1.) 
the comedy efforts of Carl B. Reid and 
A. L. Buchanan deserve mention.
The Pittsburgh Dispatch has the 
following:
Splendor of Scenes, Beauty of Chorus, 
Mark Tech Show.
Well it was, perhaps, that Fli Ziegfield, the admitted possessor of best 
eye for feminine beatuy did not hap
pen to be in Pittsburgh last night and 
witness the musical extravaganza call
ed Bohemia Unlimited at the Schen
ley Theatre, written, staged and acted 
by students of the Division of Arts of 
Carnegie Institute of Technology.
For had he, it is not improbable that 
the famous owner of the Follies, see
ing the futility of ever attempting to 
gather such an aggregation of Ameri
can beauties upon the New York 
stage would have returned home and 
in pure chagrin closed up his shows 
forever.
Not to the female loveliness of the 
show, however, would the manager 
coniine his envy. Many of the scenic 
effects and musical numbers have 
boon only slightly surpassed here. An 
audience that iUlod the theater greet
ed the show with enthusiam. There 
wore lots of good songs and dances 
and comedy, and, as before mentioned, 
the feminine charm that made even a 
Pittsburgh audience, so used to things 
>f beauty, sit up and take notice, as 
t were. The extravaganza staged by 
Vlexander L. Buchanan who also took 
nu*t in the show and scored heavily 
.everal times with his apparently exemporaneous humor.
Bevo has become the best 
friend of food and fellow
ship. 
Drink it for its purity 
and deliciously appetizing 
flavor.FATIMA
EPACKSHP NKLYTPRRPAt the soda fountain or 
with your meals. 
Bevo must be served cold.
%BaskestlPkerac iHS dVkOe
It must be 
Ice Gold
incrtWi&G.T./rsc/M/avA
Sold ovcpywhorv-r families supplied by tirocer druijijis an:! dealerat.' cordially inv:u*(l v . impeci cuv r L......-
