WTCH THE TENNIS
'v.NEAniv': I.TMCWORk'r WKW OUWtyt jyaoQ^TOURNAMENT
VOL. XII. NO. 2
FOOTBALL DANCE 
OCT. 13, 20, 27 .
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIASEPT. 26, 191-7
CONNELLEY RECEIVES COUNCIL NOMINATION
College Club Acts In Cam
paignElection Comes 
in November
rn a primary remarKaDIe ror tne 
high percentage of the registered vote 
which was cast, Dean Clifford B. Con
nelley was one of the ten men nom
inated for the November election to 
the Pittsburgh City Council. The 
other nine nominees include the five 
present members of council who are 
candidates for re-electionW. Y. 
English,- John S. Herron, John H. 
Dailey, Enoch Rauh and G. A. Dillingerand four other new menW. 
J. Burke, W. J. Brennen, Charles An
il erson and John H. Douglas, Jr.
Although the chief interest was in 
tl^ie campaign for mayor, still the vote 
for council was just as heavy and al
most as exciting. Dean Connelley ob
tained his highest votes in the Fifth, 
Ninth, Fourteenth . and Nineteenth 
wards of the city. He had conducted 
a vigorous campaign, speaking chiefly 
at the same meetings as the leading 
candidate for mayor, -E. V. Babcock. 
!-Dean Connelley was materially aided 
by the efforts of the Connelley College 
Club, of which J. R. Gearhart was sec
retary. The club sent out personal 
letters to all Tech men in the city and 
did some personal work on the Deans 
behalf. Their efforts will be con
tinued up to the time of the election 
.in November.
The detailed vote for council was as 
follows:
W. Y. English.............................2S,891
Enoch Rauh ................................28,1S9
W. J. Burke...................................27,494
W. J. Brennen...............................25,231
John H. Dailey.............................24,938
Charles Anderson ........................24,523
John S. Herron.............................24,16S
C. B. Connelley.............................19,362
G. A. Dillinger..............................18,222
John H. Douglas, Jr.......................16,13S
MORES WIN IN SUPREMACY CONTESTS
Plebes Prove Hard Opponents, 
Starring in Boxing, Hockey 
and Barrel Tilting
Precedent was upheld when the 
Sophomores overcame the Plebes in 
the class supremacy contests at Tech 
Field last Friday. The final score was 
55 to 35, but it should not be judged 
from this that the Sophomores had 
everything their own way. The Plebes 
started out in whirlwind fashion, but 
did not finish very strong. At times 
the rivalry between the two clashes 
-became so intense that oificial meas
ures were necessary to prevent an in
terruption of the meet.
Miller, a Science Soph, started the 
afternoon right for his class by up
setting his much huskier Plebe oppo
nent, I. Levine, twice in 
; succession in the lightweight wrest
ling match. Bloom, Plebe, won from 
Barboza, a Sopli, and evened the 
score; but Alexander, a Soph, won 
, from Goode, and the wrestling matches 
ended with the Sophs ahead, 10 to 5.
Oh, for the pen of Harry Keck, to 
describe the boxing matches, in which 
not very much love was displayed by 
the opponents. Not very much science 
~was displayed in any of the bouts, but 
wild swings and knockdowns were 
frequent. In the lightweight match, 
Kaplan won for the Plebes against 
(Continued on Page Three.)
NO MILITARY DRILL IS SCHOOLS DECISION
While the students, especially 
those interested in football, have 
been agitating for the transfer of 
military drill from the first to the 
last period, the administration has 
decided to drop drill entirely, and 
substitute a new plan. It was found 
that drill under present circumstan
ces could not be thorough, for the 
government has refused to recognize 
Tech as an approved military college. 
That means, as announced in the 
last issue of The. Tartan, that regu
lar uniforms would be prohibited, and 
government rifles would not be fur
nished. In fact the administration 
thought that this lack of recognition 
would change drill so that it would 
no longer be attractive to the stu
dents, and cutting would be frequent. 
Believing in doing things right or 
not at all, the executive council de
cided to adopt a new plan rather 
than the half hearted drill which 
would be permitted.
The new plan provides for half an^ 
hour of setting up exercises each 
day. This will be compulsory just 
as drill was to have been, but just 
when in the, day it will be held has 
not been announced. It is doubtful 
if even the football men will be ex
empt, since the exercises, will be 
given during school hours. Really 
the exercises are quite similar to 
those which the football squad are 
re6eiving now, and therefore should 
be beneficial rather than harmful. 
Any students who really desire the 
military drill will be urged to join 
the Pittsburgh Military Training 
Association which has its active 
headquarters at Tech. They hold 
drill eveyy Saturday afternoon under 
very competent instructors, some of 
them being the same ones who head
ed the Tech Regiment last winter.
In connection with the setting up 
exercises, shower baths are to be 
(Continuel on Page Two.)
*****************i*
* TARTAN MEETING ** ------ *
* There will be a meeting of the
T? Science and Industries members *I* of the Tartan Board on Thurs- * 
I day afternoon at 5:30. Attend- b 
b ance at all meetings is expected. !* 
* New men are cordially invited *
* to attend at that time. The-'-ineet- *
* ing will be held in the Tartan 4*
* office, room 162, in the Design *
b builging. **5* *8*
DR. JAMES RECEIVES CAPTAINS COMMISSION
Dr. Harris Now in Charge. 
Plebe Chem Course Changed. 
New Books Used
GYMNASIUM USED AS DORMITORY BY GIRLS
Because Forbes Hail is not in con
dition to house more than about thirty 
girls, twenty-six beds have been made 
up in the Margaret Morrison gym, and 
the place looks like a bse hospital 
ward. No meals are being cooked, as 
yet, at the new dorm, so the girls eat 
at the beanery. On Saturday evening, 
the Fifth avenue girls took these poor 
orphans to their dorm for entertain
ment and on Sunday escorted them to 
church and back to Fifth Avenue Hall 
for dinner.
NEWM. M. C. S. FACULTY MEMBERS ENTERTAINED
Miss Shaw, of the Institutional Man
agement Department, gave a tea in 
the Little House on Wednesday, 
September 19, from three to four, to 
introduce new members of the faculty. 
War rations of crackers and tea 
were served.
Miss Rebecca Shuman, former Mar
garet Morrison libraraian, is now a 
private secretary with the Delineator 
people, in New York City.
Miss Gail Sellers, one of last years 
secretarial graduates, .is now secre
tary to Dean Breed.
There is probably no department in I 
the science school more affected by 
the war and its demands than that of 
Chemical Engineering. Professor Jo
seph H. James, its head, was one of 
the first to respond to the govern
ments call for the assistance of ex
perts and with characteristic loyalty 
and sacrifice of large personal inter
ests he promptly accepted a captains 
commission in the Ordinance Depart
ment and is now engaged in import
ant work in this country. In the early 
summer it was reported that Captain 
James' work would take him to 
France. Professor James standing as 
a chemical engineer, his exceptional 
practical acquaintance with industrial 
processes and knowledge of certain 
special lines in which he is a recog-1 
nized authority, are known by govern-1 
(Continued on Page Three.)
DESIGN MEN WORKING ALONG VARIOUS LINES
H. B. Pearce, a former well known 
Tech student from the P. & D. depart
ment, is working on the decoration of 
the City-County Building, of which 
Mr. Edward B. Lee, Mr. Palmer and 
Mr. Hornbostel are architects.
Clifford Bayard, a graduate of the 
Teachers Course in the P. & D. de
partment, is with a base hospital, 
somewhere in France, taking photo
graphs and making photographic 
drawings of important surgical cases
F. C. Crooks, graduate of the Illus
tration Course, last June, is studying 
at the Art Students League, in New 
York.
Arthur Knorr, of the P. & D. depart
ment, is working on the cover; for the 
Tech Football Program for? this fall.
Learning To Pull Together
FOOTBALL US TROUBLES
Arrival of Steffen and Scheduling of 
Army Game Help, But Late 
Classes Hinder Practice
Coach Steffen arrived in Pittsburgh from Chicago on Monday 
morning, after having been delayed by a death in his family. He 
found that a deal has been put through with the Army for a game 
at West Point on October 6. A telegram offering that chance was 
received by Manager Gerhart last Tuesday evening, the matter was 
considered and acceptance was wired. Contracts for the game are in 
he mail how.
However, the Coach on his arrival found that practice conditions 
are very unfavorable. The squad was called out last Thursday under
Dr. Marks and an attempt, has been^H------------j--------|------------------------------
made to give the sixty or more men 
a knowledge of the rudiments of the 
game. Scholastic requirements this
year have interfered so that hardly 
any practice at all, even the elemen
tary training that has been attempted, 
is possible. Since drill comes in the 
morning, classes are an hour later in 
the evening. Although it was tlie cus
tom last year to exempt men who are 
on an athletic squad, and although it 
is presumed that the same will be 
true this year, still that does not rem
edy the fact that the very short prac
tice period which the team had in 
former years is now even shorter to 
the extent of a whole hour.
If the coach is to whip an absolutely 
green squad into shape to play the 
Army by October 6, that condition 
must be changed. Agitation had been
started by the students even before 
the coach arrived, and the matter will 
be brought to the attention of the Stu
dent Senates in the three schools. 
Those will doubtless petition the facroty iu change military drill from the 
first to the last periods, or else glvb 
it up entirely, thus giving them an 
opportunity to got to the field at 4:30.
Practice last week was largely work 
to toughen the menexorcises, run
ning, etc., with some rudimentary foot
ball. This was absolutely necessary 
since the squad is very, very green. 
Three veterans from last year are 
now safely lodged in school: McFoafei's, tackle, in Science; Williams, end, 
and Early, fullback, in Industries. 
Aside from these there aro three or 
(Continued on Page Four.)
EjSUBSCRIPTION BLANK
!' I'1 I'1 I'' I'1
I
I* I'1 I-r
Name .............................................................................................................. 
E
City or Town ............................................................................................... [
Please send THE TARTAN each week for the 1917-18 school 
year, for which I agree to pay the regular subscription price upon 
receipt of first issue.
State
United States .............................................$1.50
Foreign ........................................................$1.85
FIRST ASSEMBLY HELD BY M. M. C. S. STUDENTSSOPHS GIVE PLEDES A HEARTY RECEPTION
Assembly Hall was too small for 
the first student assembly, at M. M. 
on Thursday morning, September 20. 
One hundred and twenty-one Plebes 
nearly usurped the seating capacity. 
Folowing tradition, the upper class
men stood and sang the Womans 
Song, while the Plebes. and jiew stu
dents filed in. After Dean Breed wel
comed the old and new students she 
.dwelled upon the importance of wom
ans work in the world at this time. 
American womens work-in the coming 
year, if paid for in money, would 
amount to $36,000,000. Miss Breed ex
plained that .because the work our 
school does is good for the world in 
times of peace, it is so much more 
useful in times of war, and will make 
for a full school year. Although the 
girls will have lots of work to do, Dean 
Breed emphasized the necessity of 
living a normal life, with plenty of 
good times interspersed, to keep 
healthy and balanced.
M. M. C. S. girls as a body will prob
ably follow the suggestion to organize 
for definite war relief work.
INDUSTRIES ALUMNI TO GIVE CORN ROAST
The Alumni Association of the 
School of Applied Industries will hold 
its annual corn roast at Rustic Camp, 
on the Butler Short Line, on Thurs
day, September 27. The camp is 
reached by taking the Butler car, one 
running every hour, and getting off 
at Hoffmans Stop, where one can be 
directed to the camp. The return 
trip can be made by taking the Glonshaw Bus Line to Etna and the street 
car from there to town. Undergrad
uates are cordially invitod to attend. 
The assessment is $1.25 per couple.
* +
+ GENERAL ASSEMBLY + fr ------ *1*
I* There will bo a general aasem*
I bly oi' 1'aculLy and atUdnta + 
1 from the four schools In tin; *1* 
Momorlal Hall on Wednesday 
fr morning at 11:30 a. m. This 4* 
I* first general mooting of. the year *! 
+ will take place of the separate 4* 
b school assemblies. Director Ham- 4* 
*1' erschlag may address the meeting 
b and Coach Steffen will be given *b 
I an opportunity to go ovor the *1*
* football situation. *
! .j
NEW CHANGES MADE IN COMMERCIAL DIVISION
The Commercial Engineering ' jurse 
of the Service School has determined 
that a slight change in organization 
would be more advantageous to at
tendants and faculty.
The new system places Prof. Willet 
in charge of all work pertaining to 
Economics, while all the statistics 
and accounting is placed in the hands 
of Prof. Blacky.
Mr. F. Earl Brennan, a graduate of 
Colgate and for two years with the 
Emerson company, of New York City, 
has been secured to assist Prof. 
Blakey. To him is extended the heart
iest welcome by all Techites.
Tech Men at Fort Oglethorpe.
Courtesy Pittsburgh Sun. 
BackF. S. Black, H. M. Phillips, Bragdon Smith, H. Levy, E. S. Lundell, Edward Crump, G. S. McElroy, 
H. J. McCorkle, F. R. Cogswell, Vernon Wilson, H. Oakes, C. C. Mac Millan.
FrontD. H. Jones, F. L. Weigle, D. C. R. Ingalls, A. W. Einstein, J. B. Ogden, J. W. Schaupp, G. S. Blair. 
These Tech men began their training for the Officers Reserve Corps in the second camp at Fort Ogle
thorpe, but have since been scattered. For example, H. J. McCorkle is now at Fortress Monroe,
Introduction to Tech Proves 
Interesting to Students of 
All Four Schools
This years Plebes certainly had one 
grand and glorious" time from Wed
nesday morning until Friday night of 
last week. Other classes have taken 
their share of punishment, but mem
bers of this class were so unfortunate 
as to have the most brilliant, versatile, 
inventive' bunch of Sophs to deal with 
that Tech has ever known.
The girls were included in this 
years activities, toothey must wear 
a plaid and yellow armband and black 
cotton stockings until Qualification 
Day, and on Thursday they were com
pelled to wear pigtails charmingly dec
orated with brilliant green ribbons. A 
number of them were also persuaded 
(by means of hockey sticks held by 
M. M. C. S. Sophs) to stroll down 
Woodlawn avenue at about, midnight. 
Whether or not they climbed trees 
and bayed at the moon cannot be 
stated with any degree of accuracy, 
however.
A meeting of the Science Plebes 
was called for 1:30 Wednesday, and 
they! came! What Barnum said about, 
one every minute is well Illustrated 
by the way they fiock to this get-to
gether gag every year. Of course 
the Sophs gave them a warm recep
tion. They carried wood for the bon 
fire. There were proposals, and one 
Plebe was game enough to warble 
something about Peabody for the 
benefit of an attentive audience, after 
which they all learned the Tech yells. 
After carrying more wood, somo ex
tra strong volunteers endeavored to 
push a Ford up the hill by Design, but 
the brakes were set and they didnt 
meet with much succoss. A gatno of 
loapfrog was enjoyed (?) by all, and 
the Sophs discovered an old coach of 
some sort which was used to good ncl(Continued on Pago Three)
TECH MEN HELP WITH SOLDIERS LIBRARIES
Dr. Leete has Charge of Pitts
burgh District-Books Are 
Greatest Need of Soldiers
Several teams of live or ton Tech 
men each are now engaged in the 
campaign to socuro contributions for 
the Soldiers Libraries in the training 
camps. The campaign in Pittsburgh is 
being conducted by the Carnegie Li
brary under the direction of Dr. Leete. 
One team of five men, of whom Geo. 
Todd was captain, last Saturday dis
tributed contribution boxes through
out down-town stores and banks. 
These will be collected at the end of 
this week. Other teams are engaged 
in the actual work of soliciting con
tributions, and are making good 
progress. ,
The statement issued by the Library 
in connection with the campaign is as 
follows:
Thousands of American -troops are 
being made ready to go to France. In 
a few weeks our new army will be 
quartered in thirty-two cantonments 
and numerous training camps. Hun
dreds of thousands of vigorous, active, 
earnest Americans have been suddenly 
snatched from a life of civil liberty, 
and as suddenly plunged into a new 
life of military restraint without any 
(Continuel on Page Two.)
ANNUAL FALL FESTIVAL PROVES GREAT SUCCESS
Dramatic Students Stage In
teresting Prologue--Sophs 
and Plebes Have Battle
On Tech Field, Friday evening, Sep-( 
temher 21, the period of fighting be 
tween the Sophs and Plebes was clos' 
ed and the period of probation for 
Plebes was opened. The C. T. T. band 
opened the celebration and with its 
excellent collection of live pieces gave 
quite an up-to-the-minute and inter
esting atmosphere to the place, as 
the crowds gathored 'on the grand
stand.
The celebration this year was simi
lar to that of last year with the addi
tion of a prologue written by Mist 
Sara E. Bennett of Dramatic Depart 
ment of Design School.
As the lights flashed on, one saw 
stretch of greensward and beyond tv* 
roads, one leading to Self, the oth^ 
to Popular opinion. The youth, inter
preted by James S. Church, com 
Continued on Page Four.) e 
g

---------------------------------------------------

Page TwoTHE TAETANWednesday, September 26, 191-
101,
V artan
Published every Wednesday by undergraduates of tho Carnegie Institute 
of Technology.
Entered in th postonico of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
Yearly, $1.50
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
6c the copyCanada, $1.75
Bucincao Manager
EDITORIAL 
Managing Editor
A. D. Bauer 
Assistant Managing Editor 
L. K. Paquin 
Editors 
Marguerite Bollinger 
Salome Stamm 
Design Assistants 
Ellen Crowe 
James Church
Scicncc Assistants 
Joseph Levin 
II. II. Turn In 
K. L. Emerlch
M. M. C. 5. Assistants
Marguerite Haldeman 
Margaret Lappo 
Anne McCandlass 
Lydia McCarthy 
Athletic Editor
BUSINESS
Manager Mailing List 
H. It. Titus 
Circulation Manager 
W. F. Anderson 
Exchange Manager 
J. L. Herrman
TARTAN OFFICE....
Hours..............................................................Room 162, Design
-5:30 to 6:00 Wednesdays and Thursdays.
7:00 to 8:30 Wednesdays.
The Editor-In-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the Man
aging Editor for the make up.
All business communications should be sent to the Business Manager. 
Any delay in dollvery of this paper or change of address should be reported 
at once.
+ 4-
4- 8CIENCE SCHOOL +
4* CLA86 MEETINGS 4*
4* ------ 4*
4 The class meeting for the 4* 
4* election of oillcers in .the three ? 
4 upper classes will be held in the 4* 
4* next two weekH, an required by 4* 
4* the constitutions. Meetings to 4* 
4* nominate will be held by the jun- 4* 
4 iors on Thursday, and by the 4 
4* Hophomores on Monday with the 4* 
4* election a week later. Officers 4* 
4 hold office for one semester only, 4* 
4* except in the senior class, where 4* 
4* the term extends through the 4* 
4* year. 4
4* This year members of the sen- 4* 
4* ate will be elected along with 4* 
4* the other officers. The new sen- 4* 
4 ate will then assemble at the call 4* 
4* of It. J. Soule, who was vice presl- 4* 
4* dent last year. 4*
4. 4*
* * 4. 4. 4. 4. 4. * 4. 4. * 4* + * 4 4* *
TECH HEN HELP WITH
SOLDIERS LIBRARIES
TENNIS COURTS READY FOR FALL TOURNAMENT
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the signature to be withheld if desired.
All news items must be In the student postofflce, Central Building, before 
noon on Mondays.
BOOST FOOTBALL
Talk football! If you cant play it, talk ittalk it from nowtill Thanksgivingboost ityell for it! Coach, managers; and' 
playerti have before them what appears to be a hopeless task; they 
must make a trained football team out of absolutely untrained ma
terial. The student body can put a little'hope into that task just 
by talking football.
At present the greatest disadvantage under which the team is 
laboring is the short practice period. In former years it was short 
enough; but now that morning drill has shoved everything back 
an hour, it is just that much shorter. Someone has proposed the 
plan of having drill the last hour instead of the first, and excusin 
football men from this in order that they may have that extra 
hour 011 the field. If that scheme sounds well, talk it over in 
your school, have your Senate act, 011 the matterperhaps they 
have already done so by this timeand see what influence you
can exert to help the team.
We understand that last hour drill would be acceptable to the 
Scicncc and Industries Schools, but not to Design on account ol! the 
peculiar nature of some pf its work which goes right on past the 
last scheduled hour. Surely, iLJ it, means all the difference' between
success and failure for those athletics which tin; President has
advocated, the Design School can find some way of interrupting 
its work. Talk it over, anyway.
Talk your friendsor yourself- into coming out for the team 
It is not too late yet;. .Early came to school late last year, but he 
managed to make himself hoard in the Pitt game. Probably you 
will not even make the team, hut you owe. It to yourself and your 
school to lot the coach look you over.
HAS THE BUBBLE BURST?
It, is no WQiuler that, the IMebes attempted to use the flagpole 
for their own purposes last, Thursday evening when the legitimate 
j)u.|*o < ol! the plo is neglected. No Hag has boon flying since 
dumi opened. We understand that; last years bit of the Stars 
and Stripes was rather badly weather worn at the close of school, 
but; surely that does not prevent the purchase of a new one. 
Surely the display of our flag last year was no bit olf patriotic 
fervor to be roughly discarded when the excitement of the move
ment has passed. If finances are the obstacle, some solution or 
other can be found. Dont let anyone say that Tech lost interest 
os soon as the bubble of excitement had burst!
1 Please!  
Students returning this year find the campus for the first time 
making a really creditable appearance. The Design School lawn in 
particular is a wonderful improvement. In every place now, with the 
one exception of tlie ground near the Science School, the Institute 
has lawns which are well sodded and well kept. The powers that be 
have done their share by purchasing during the summer a motor driv
en lawn mower which greatly increases the efficiency in the work of 
cutting the grass. Why not have the student body do its share? 
Please!
No doubt there will be this year, as in former years, considerable 
criticism because of the one exception to the general good appear
ance which we have noted above. Whether or not we are correct in 
our surmise that the Science School lawn has been left in its present 
condition because the construction work about the building has never 
been completed we do not know; but we do know that the very fel
lows who grumble about that will bo the first ones to violate the 
beauty of the other lawns by rounding off the corners of the walks. 
I t, is always so. Of course it is no crime for one man to take a short 
cut off the boardwalk and on the grass; but where one leads others 
follow, and we soon have worn through the lawn a regular Indian 
trail which becomes a mud puddle on rainy days and a disgrace every
day. The boardwalks were made to walk upon, the lawns to look at. 
Please!
Lists closed yesterday for the an
nual fall Tennis Tournament.. The 
number of entrants in this, as in 
everything else this year, has been cut 
down 011 account of small registration; 
but still, the number participating will 
be fairly large. About twenty men 
have signed the notices placed in. the 
four schools and in the Central Build 
ing. This year a charge of -fifteen 
cents will be made for each entrant to 
defray the costs of the tournament.
The courts have been put into good 
condition since the opening of school, 
and have been well patronized. Beatty 
and Davis, of last years team, have 
been practising and prospects for a 
successful team next, spring are good.
The usual rule of having the man 
in the lower class look up his oppo
nent will be followed this year, as in 
former years.
DR. HAMERSCHLAG GIVES WELCOMING ADDRESS
Dr. Hamerschlag delivered his an
nual address to the incoming students 
of the four schools last Friday morn
ing. The meetings were held sepa
rately this year instead of together as 
formerly, but they were not so well at
tended as they might have been be
cause the Plebes were busy under 
Sophomore tutelage.
In the Design School the meeting 
was held in the little theater. The 
Director took this occasion to remind 
them of their part in the welfare of 
the country, and assured them that 
in doing good, eonselencious work and 
fitting thomselves to hold aloft the 
beacon of the idealto divert the 
minds and relieve the pain and sor
row of the peoplo who must suffer 
in these times; they are doing their 
bit as well as are the new members 
of the other schools. There was a 
general patriotic trend to his remarks 
which was decidedly in keeping with 
the times, and also served to give 
inspiration and confidence to the rathbewildered Plebes.
In the Sclenco School the address, 
was of a similar nature, modified ac-j 
wording to tho difference in the schools. 
As one Plebe expressed It, Director 
Hamerschlag told them how little 
chance they had of ever getting 
through Science School.
RED CROSS AUXILIARY BEGINS WORK FOR YEAR
The Tech Auxiliary of the Red 
Cross has bought one hundred pounds 
of khaki yarn which will be given to 
the girls who will knit for the Aux
iliary and sold to those who wish to 
knit for their friends. Many sweaters, 
scarfs and wristlets have already been 
started, and Tech men who enlist or 
are drafted will be supplied with an 
outfit upon application to the auxiliary. 
A complete set will also be sent to 
the men who have already gone to the 
training camps; the remainder of the 
articles being forwarded to Red Cross 
Headquarters. The knitting is in 
charge of Miss Dorothy Davis, of the 
Margaret Morrison School.
The well being sunk on the Athletic Field is rather in the 
nature of an experiment on the part of the administration. When 
approached with speculations as to whether they were after gas 
i or oil 01* what, Mr. Ileyl refused to say anything more than that 
J.1hey were trusting to luck.
u Tech men living in the city have a wonderful opportunity to 
c*do something for their school by supporting Dean Connelley in his 
^candidacy for council. That means not only voting for him your
self but also talking the matter over among your relatives and 
riends.
\
MR. CARR IS NEW HEAR 
OF DECORATION COURSE
Mr. Michael Carmichaol Carr has 
been appointed to take Mr. D. Quelins 
place, as the head of tho Decoration 
Course in the Painting and Decorntion 
Department.
Mr. Carr is Amorlcan born, but. 
spent four and one-half years at. school 
in England, then went to Italy, where 
he painted and studied for seven years 
before returning to United States.
Ho instructed in the Fine Arts In
stitute in Kansas City for one year, 
then went to the University of Mis
souri. He has been associated with 
the institution for the past seven 
years.
Mr. Carr is also quite interested in 
the theatre and stage scenery, and is 
a great friend of Gordon Craig, with 
whom he was associated for some 
time.
(Continued From Page One.) 
of the pleasures or diversions of their 
former surroundings.
The cantonments and training 
camps are to a great extent isolated, 
and in nearly every instance they are 
far removed from the home states of 
the troops tq be assembled. The gov
ernment will sec that nothing is lack
ing. in equipment and material to 
make the new soldiers efficient fight
ing men. But all of their time will 
not be required for training and drill. 
Some provision must be made for 
their hours of leisure.
In establishing these contonments 
and training camps, the War Depart
ment has taken careful precaution to 
remove every dangerous influence 
common to military camps of the past. 
But this is not enough. The War De
partment recognized the danger which 
would arise from suddenly denying 
these young men practically every 
pleasure that had entered into their 
civil lives, and thus leaving them with 
nothing to fill in their leisure hours. 
Therefore the United States Govern
ment asks those who stay at home to 
help make the life of these boys a 
little brighter by supplying the means 
to furnish them good books for their 
dull and lonesome periods.
According to the plans of the War 
Department, each camp or cantonment 
is to be a real city, the average pop
ulation being 40,000 to 50,000 men. 
Provision has been made for postoffices, office buildings, and even 
banks. Only libraries are needed, and 
these the relatives and friends of the 
soldiers are asked to provide.
The field to be covered by the li
braries embraces the widest range, in
cluding service for recruits, for men 
in training, for men being mobilized, 
for men in garrisons, for men in their 
rest periods while on the march, and 
even for the men at the front. The 
libraries will serve the crippled and 
maimed men returned from service, 
wounded soldiers, interned groups and 
prisoners of war, men awaiting the 
muster-out, sailors on shipboifrd, and 
sailors at the various naval stations. 
Not a man in any branch of Uncle 
Sams war service must be neglected.
A careful survey of the entire field 
has determined that one dollar is the 
amount necessary for the purchase, 
maintenance and circulation of one 
book. One dollar, it is figured, will 
furnish a book, keep it in circulation 
until It is worn out, replace it when 
retired for physical disability and all 
the time pay a share of the expense of 
properly housing and caring for these 
libraries in the various camps. In ad
dition to the purchasing ofx books, 
funds must be available for the, hous
ing and equipment of the libraries and 
for the provision of efficient library 
service.
Impressed .by the value and neces
sity of this, service the War Depart
ment has appointed a Library War 
Council, consisting of ten persons of 
national prominence, President Van-1 
derlip of the National City Bank of 
New York being chairman, to assume 
general direction of the campaign. 
This council has placed the responsi
bility of the detailed direction of the 
work in the hands of the American 
Library Association, by which the 
country has been divided into districts 
with campaign managers for each dis
trict. The Director of the Carnegie 
Library of Pittsburgh has been ap
point,ed to conduct the campaign in 
Southwestern Pennsylvania.
After careful study it has been de
cided that a fund of $1,000,000 will be 
necessary to meet the demands of this 
work. To raise the amount which con
stitutes Pittsburghs proportion of the 
total should be a matter of pride to 
every citizen and would be an easy 
task provided the purpose of the cam
paign appealed with equal force to all 
members of the community. Unfor
tunately this may not be the case, and 
owing to this fact and the addi
tional handicap that some communi
ties are remote from library service, 
the burden upon those who are inter
ested in this phase of the conservation 
of the young men of the nation may 
be greater than it otherwise would be. 
The Library Association has accord
ingly suggested that each community 
set as its Library War Fund goal a 
sum equal to 5% of its population. 
This would mean for Pittsburgh a 
contribution of approximately $30,000.
To raise this fund the co-operation 
of every organization and agency in
terested in the purpose of the cam
paign must be enlisted. Churches, fra
ternal organizations, clubs, and indi
viduals are all asked to take an active 
part in the work. The week begin
ning Monday, September 24, has been 
set aside by the National. Library 
War Council as Soldiers Book Fund 
Campaign Week all over the country. 
Their field workers are planning an 
active campaign for the collection of 
funds at that time, and interest must 
be aroused before that date to guar
antee success and acomplish this end. 
Funds collected by various organiza
tions can be turned in to the Library 
at any time during the week of Sep
tember 24.
BAND MEN
. 4. 4. 4. 
4* 
4* 
4*
4* There will be a meeting of all 4* 
4* band men in the union, Wednes- 4* 
4* day, September 26, at 4:30 for 4* 
4* rehearsel. New men are urged 4* 
4* to attend, any may, who can play 4* 
4* an instrument, or who thinks he 4* 
4* can. 4*
4* The band is again under the 4* 
4* leadership of Director Sullivan 4* 
4* and gave a very creditable first 4* 
4- performance at the supremacy 4* 
4* contest. The meeting Wednes- 4* 
4* day is in preparation for the pa- < 
4* rade that evening. 4*
4. 4.
NEW SOUTH DORMITORY NEARING
CHURCHES 
IALST. PAULS CATHEDRAt. 
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.
and1
Masses: 6:30, 8:00, 9:00, 10:00 aitfoly 
11:00 A. M. on Sundays and Hoi'. 
Days. M.
Vespers on Sundays at 7:30 P. itaig.
Parish Hall and Gymnasium, Crait
streeL t
i 5-
The new South Dormitory, the foun
dation of which was being built last 
spring, was completed and opened to 
the students last Thursday, Septem
ber 20. It is of brick and stone con
struction, as are the old dormitories, 
but more stone is used, giving it a 
much more picturesque appearance.
The building is divided into two 
distinct parts, the one being a dupli
cate of the other, in reverse. This was 
done in order to simplify the control 
of so large a number of men, and to 
create a spirit of friendly rivalry such 
as now exists between the old dorms.
The new building differs from the 
old ones in that it has. only two stor
ies, and no sleeping porches on the 
ground floor. The heating will be 
with warm air instead of steam, and 
the floors are of hardwood instead of 
cement.
The two small buildings behind the 
old dorms which caused so much spec
ulation and conjecture last year, are 
to be used, for the present at least, 
as dormitories also. The east one is 
already occupied, and the west is 
nearing completion. The original idea 
in building them was to furnish houses 
for some of the clubs, which have been 
renting dwellings more or less incon
veniently situated. On account of 
their being built of material from the 
McGinley property, the cost of mater
ials was considerably reduced, and 
they can be rented at a very reason- j 
able figure. Each of them has rooms | 
suitable for club or meeting rooms, 
fire places, and all conveniences 
necessary for a club-house.
The South Dormitory will house 
fifty-two men; and each of the small 
building a'bout twenty, thus making 
the population of the dormitories over 
two hundred and fifty in all.
"THE FRIENDLY CHURCH 
GRACE CHURCH (Reformed)
Four Blocks from Tech 
DITHRIDGE AND BAYARD STS.
FREDERICK C. NAU, Pastor. 
SERVICES:Sunday School, 9:45. 
A. M.; Morning Worship and Sermon,1 
11; Popular Evening Service. 7:45; Y 
Christian Endeavor, 7. Wednesday Evening at 8. s
Atty. JOS. R. CONRAD teaches Mens.
Bible Class, 9:45, Sunday. f
Students! Make yourselves at home 
in Grace Church.
ST. ANDREW'S EVANGELICAL 
LUTHERAN CHURCH 
Centre and Morewood Avenues 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Bible Classes at 9:30 A. M.
Morning Worship, 10:45; Evening,. 
7:45. Helpful sermons on Bibl& themes only.
A hearty welcome to students. 
HENRY P. ECKHARDT, Pastor.
ASCENSION EPISCOPAL CHURCH 
Ellsworth Avenue and Neville Street 
DR. WYATT BROWN, Rector.' 
REV. E. JEFFERY JENNINGS, 
Assistant.
Sunday Service, 11:00 A. M.
Bible Class, 10:00 A. M.
Tech students cordially welcomed.
FOOTBALL SQUAD HAS! SEVENTY MEMBERS
NOMILITARY DRILLS IS
SCHOOLS DECISION
(Continued From Page One) 
installed in each of the schools. Thiswill do away with much of the dis
comfort which drill caused last year, 
because it was impossible for the 
men to use the facilities of the gym
nasium after each mornings exer
cise.
The following new men, in addition 
to McFeaters and Williams,- who are 
already out, and Early, who will be 
out later, constlute the football squad 
so far. Of the whole list, Levinson, 
011 the Penn State Freshmen, and Car
roll, on the Cornell Freshman, are 
about, the only ones who have had any 
great amount of college football. 
Carey, H. F.
Shllladay, D. B.
Bloom, Fred 
O'Rourke, Wm.
Higgins, G. A.
Foxon, R. D.
Anderson, H. D.
Emerich, L. C.
Dreux, A. J.
Beck, H. A.
Levin, Jos.
Ivriedler, R. L.
Falkenstein, W. D.
Swift, R. A.
Powers, M.
Levy, A.
Gumming. A. T.
Jones, Jas. R.
Copley, C. J.
Horowitz, Harry 
^emser, D. A.
Kavney, E. J.
Hogan, T. F.
Hoffman, W. W.
Albaugh, W. P.
Good, P. D.
Gore, M. S.
Zuck, W. V.
Gretzles, E. M.
Schmucker, J. G.
Hubbard, J. S.
Smith, F. S.
Wallen, L. C.
Levinson, Jacob 
Baron, C.. G.
Nagler, H. B.
Blesch, C. G.
OConnor, G. Iv.
Smith, H. F.
Sartor, D. C.
Serrin, J. B.
Curtis, G. W.
Gove. G. S.
Kofetf, V. B.
Working, Paul 
Grant, J. E.
Shearer, S. B.
Shearer, A. B.
Hill, L. B.
Cochran, E. It.
Byane, E. W.
Gerber, H. B.
Womack, J. T.
Alexander, A. C.
Lynn, Holmes 
Eber, Ralph 
Oakley, W. H.
Hedlund, H.
Loomior, H. M.
Hain, Harry 
Masterman, T. W.
Coombs, C. D.
Carroll, O.
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
Shady and Northumberland Avenues 
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. MPreaching Services; 11:00 A. M. "and! !:00 P. M.
Young Peoples Service, 7:00 P. M. 
Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages. 
A cordial welcome to all.
ROBERT B. MILLER, D. D., 
Pastor.
 First 
Congregational 
Church
All seats free.
Make yourself at home a(| the 
time. Students especially wel
comed at each service.
CHAS. ELDRED SHELTON, 
LL.D., Pastor
DITHRIDGE ST., near Forbes. |p 
Near Carnegie Institute- |j
BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN 
CHURCH 
(Fifth and Bellefield.)
REV. ROBERT MacGOWAN 
M. A. (Glasgow) r 
D- D. (Pittsbugh) 
will preach at 11 and 8. 
Bible School 9:45. 
Christian Endeavor 7.
Dr. MacGowan is here to help 
the students. For conference 
ring Schenley 3447.
Akins, P. 
Stalnaker, B. 
Salsgiver, L. 
Kniges, T. S.
INDUSTRIES SC000L 
LOSES INSTRUCTORS
As in all the schools, there havebeen several changes in the faculty 
of the Industries School over the sum
mer. Owing to the decreased day en
rollment, there has been a decrease 
in the. staff.
Instructors Who Left Industries 
School :
Cornelius M. Kelley, Assistant In
structor in Forge Shop; now in com
mercial work in Springfield, Mass.
Alfred P. Kreuger, Instructor in 
Mathematics; now in commercial work 
in New ^York.
Morris M. Leftwich, Instructor in 
Printing; now in commercial work in 
Texas.
John Joseph Machacek, Assistant 
Instructor in Physics; drafted into 
army.
Pierrepont H. Nickols, Instructor in 
English; volunteered for the army.
The following are new instructors:
John Hoyle, Instructor in English 
for Printing Department; came from 
Roycrafters, East Aurora, N .Y.
A. W. Martin, Instructor in Print
ing; came from commercial work in 
Brooklyn.
^

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, September 26, 1917YHI TAfiTAN
WTC
ThiirdU
2 r 35^
3 fr 50*
CXUETT-PEABODY & CO-INC -.AiAKERS 
SIMBOLI IN DESIGN SCHOOL AS INST00CT00
1^lt2I8SI8^HBS8!lSl!nKtUfflIU8Gi!HlI!!IliHl!jintilfflHiniI1!rtfH!nr-nM1^
Mellon 
I National 
Bank
PITTSBURGH 
I 510-514 Smitheld St. | 
I 409-413 Fifth ^ve. 
I 406-410 Oliver Ave.
I Capital - - - - $6,000,000
Raymond Siniboli, a graduate of 
the P. and D. Department class of 
1917, will remain as instructor of the 
morning sketch class.
He was awarded the Hawthorne 
scholarship, and spent this summer 
With Hawthorne at Proviheetown, 
Cape Cod, Mass., where lie was as
sociated with many distinguished 
men.
He had three pictures on exhibition 
and sold one drawing for a large sum 
of money.
He was also given the honor of be
ing elector to the Beach Combers.
ENGINEERING SOCIETY FORMS NEW CHAPTERS
Resources Over 
$100,000,000
ENGRAVED CARDS 
100' from your plate, $1.25. |
Cost of new plates depends || 
on style and amount of letter- g 
ing.
PRINTED CARDS 
75c for 100, with case 
60c for 100, with case 
W. F. KELLEY 
Leave order in envelope at Tech 
Post Office.
STUDENT LUNCHEON 
Milk or Coffee, 5c Pie, 5c per cut 
Hot Chocolate, 10c 
Ham or Cheese Sandwich, 5c
Rolls and Butter, 5c 
Ice Cream, 10c 
THE HALLER BAKERY 
3610 FORBES STREET 
Iroquois Block.
1 OAKLAND 
i HARDWARE CO.
HARDWARE AND 
HOUSE-FURNISHING GOODS 
3606 FORBES STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
I cii5J5iSMSI5i5J5M5iBMBJSMBM5JSM5JSM5J ti
'v.v'v.v.v.v.NEAvEnN.AEnv.NinN:
W. O. Breckon |
STUDIOS I
FORBES AND ATWOOD STS. ^ 
Phones 1603161 Schenley g
SPECIAL PRICES TO TECH [a 
STUDENTS
fSMSMSMSMSMSMSMSMSMclMPJ
WEBER EXPRESS AND 
STORAGE COMPANY 
Bell Phone 239 Schenley.
Moving, Packing and Storing 
of Furniture and Pianos. Gen
eral Hauling Baggage to and 
from Depots.
M 4616-18-20 HENRY STREET 
| PITTSBURGH
f335i5J5i5M5/SM5M5/SlSH5JSJ5J5fi5JS/5/SJ5/5,
d 
*1 & eE in 11 E  [1 E E  E
The Board of Directors of the Amer
ican Association of Engineers, at 
their meeting on September 5. granted 
charters to the members in St. Paul, 
Indianapolis and Milwaukee. This 
makes a total of seven chapters which 
have been organized since the Asso
ciation was incorporated about two 
years ago. The total enrollment of 
the National Organization is over 
twenty-two hundred different mem
bers.
A joint meeting of the association 
and the Detroit Engineering Society 
was held in the. Commerce Building 
Thursday, August 13. It was the un
animous opinion of the engineers 
present that the Detroit society should 
form a working co-operation with the 
American Association, as they have 
been carrying out a similr program 
locally for Detroit as the other organi
zation has operated in a National way. 
The Detroit Society has a total en
rollment of about seven hundred mem
bers and if this working co-operation 
is established it will mean the further
ing, of the work laid out by the com
mittee on Engineering co-operation
Membership in the American Asso
ciation of Engineers is being extend
ed to all technical engineers in mili
tary service without payment of initia
tion fee or dues. This is part of the 
co-operative plan to keep them advis
ed as to progress in the engineering 
field and to give them personal assist
ance upon their return to their profes
sional work.
SOPHS GIVE PLEBES
A HEARTY RECEPTION
GET YOUR HAIR CUT
^ TECH BARBER SHOP
E] Nearest to Tech
jsj COR. CRAIG AND FORBES
H FRED FARGEL, Proprietor
3 |j3Jp] fjO 1(3 dp fip (H3 if3 [TO TO fS] fin [D IH3 fnl (1^ fri' W rm f=?'1
PAPERS FROM HOME REACH BOYS IN FRANCE ^,aaa,s,a,^la,a,a,E,a,MaE,^,a,S|S,a,a|a,as,s,s,SE,^Ja,a,aEHa,a,s,aJ3aE,^|a3,
OCHS
FORBES AND ATWOOD STREETS, OAKLAND 
THE FAMOUS
OnyxBrand 
Double Wear Hose
Black, white, tan, grey and suede, special,
E} per pair...........................................................................
ITM Hole Proof Hose, in Black, green, grey, white and tan 
E) NEW NECKWEAR,
I SPECIAL..............................................................................
1
...29c |
. .30c a parr [{
.............65c |
Light and Medium Weight Underwear, in both union and two- Ej [3 piece suits. ffiCC.WOvOR.v'R'v.v'v'v'k'v.v'R.v.r'v'vOr.R'v.N'v.v'r.v.r.vEnW.CKNO'v.vURAThe IDansant
THE ITALIAN BATTLE 1 FRONT
ENTIRE WEEK BEGINNING  
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 24th j 
AT THE EAST LIBERTY | 
CAMERAPHONE THEATER |
1IIIIIIIIIIIIIMI1IIII1III1IIII1
TYPEWRITERS 
RENTED 
Late models. 
Three months for 
$7.00. Special 
rates to students. 
Guaranteed Fac
tory Rebuilt Ma
chines.
American Writing Machine 
Company
630 PENN AVENUE 
Bell Phone Grant 1374 
Special Monarch Visible, 3 mo, $5.
(Continued From Page One.) 
vantage as a jinkikisha, the Plebes 
acting as Japanese with realistic fer
vor.
Then we had the great old shoe 
rush. One fellow got a better pair 
of shoes than he put in, it is said, and 
only one was disabled. Football has 
nothing on a shoe-rush!
All this was on Wednesday, but 
Thursday was just as interesting. The 
Science men proposed" some more, and 
carried more woodin fact, carrying 
wood was their chief pastime all 
through this celebration. A grand 
tournament was held, some acting as 
horses, others as knights, in spirited 
tilting matches. They sangwell, 
maybe it wasn't singing, but they did 
their best; and they dived off the 
campus) (and incidentally onto the 
campus, too) and swam around in the 
grass as if it were their natural ele
ment. They carried, oh, they say, 
thousands of cans of stuff from the 
Design School basement to the Bean
ery, and got six cans of plums as a 
reward. The Sophs ate the contents 
of four of the cans for them, but that I 
is merely incidental. The industry 
Plebes were enjoying the sights in 
East Liberty at this time, marching 
around the principal buildings with 
signs advising everyone to Smile and 
Show Your Dimple, or carrying a 
string of Tuxedo cans. Only two had 
to come home on cars, because of 
swollen feet; the rest are regular 
hikers.
The Mv-M. C. S. Plebes were busy 
in.the meantime, but it appears that 
the Sophs didnt know anything about 
it. They made the cutest flag, 1921 
Plebes in white, all neatly featherstitched onto a blue background by 
.'some industrious Costume Econom
ics student, no doubt; and Thursday 
night several Plebes put it up on the 
flagpole, and greased the pole. And 
Friday morning, under the supervision 
of the Sophs, they took it down, and 
ungreased the pole. Then they car
ried some more wood.
The 1 contests in the afternoon and 
the pageant in the evening closed the 
occasion with a blaze of glory. It will 
always remain, however, as a series 
of red letter days, or had we better 
say, black and blue letter days, in 
the memories of the Plebes.
Had Seen the "Ad.
When formal announcement of Hel
ens engagement was made in the so
ciety column of the local paper, Dicky 
came running up to his sister, saying: 
Oh, Helen, I saw your ad in the pa
per!
A. ASLISTailor
Maker of fine clothes. Cleaning and pressing.
MODERATE PRICES 
120 MEYRAN AVENUE 4692-R Schenley
OAKLAND
 v........ - ., ------------ - \
Papers from home- arrive at the American training camp in France, not 
far behind the firing line. The arrival of mail marks a red-letter day for the 
American troops preparing for their term in the trenches.
People of United States Should 
Not Waste Nut Harvest
By Garrett P. Scrviss, Scientist
The time of year is fast appnjaching when the forests will begin to 
put on their autumn robes and nowhere in the world are these robes so 
royally splendid as they are in the United Stales. But this year, now 
that the war has made us a feeder of nations on a scale heretofore 
undreamt of, there is another attraction in the autumn woods besides 
their beauty of foliage which ought to command universal interest and 
draw everybody who can reach them into their fragrant aisles. It is 
the call of the ,11111 harvest.
. If you want to find nuts follow a squirrel. But the best le'ssori lie 
teaches is that of the food value of nuts. Every mil-bearing treo is 11 
fruit tree. The nut trees of this country, alone, could go far in pre
venting a food famine.
Personally, I regard the butternut as the; best nut that grows, not 
excepting its great cousin, the walilnt. Besides, the butternut is a 
native American. But, go and see it yim can find any butternuts in the 
markets! Go and ask the farmers abofit their butternut trees, and hear 
them tell you that there used to be some *11 fathers time, but now 
theyve been cut off or let die out. I venture to say that 110 butternut 
tree was ever cut down, while still in the bearing ago, without loss, no 
matter what was put in its place.
It is the same with the hickoryanother native of America. One 
of the saddest bits of news I have heard in many a <]ay is that the hick
ories are threatened with extermination by a now insect enemy. But 
regardless of new enemies, the hickory has been shamefully neglected.
Some of those trees supplied successive generations with nourish
menta dessert worth a thousand concoctions of the kitchen, and that 
cost the farmer simply the easy and' delightful labor of picking up the 
nuts that the frosts released and the cool autumn winds brought down. 
The consequence of our neglect of tjid nut trees is that their product 
has become a rare luxury instead of an unfailing staple on our food lists.
As the squirrel teaches the value oi nuts, a more unpoetieal animal, 
the hog, teaches that of acorns. Nothing, perhaps, will fatten a hog so 
well and so quickly, or give it market quality of so high a value, as a 
diet of acorns. But I suppose that relatively few persons are aware that 
acorns are an excellent and palatable food for man.
Acorns, says Doctor Hornuday, are one of the most valuable and 
abundant crops of our forests, and no use whatever is being made of it. 
The acorn is going to waste in the United States while it is being eaten 
in bread in Germany.
What more need be said ?
EACH MONDAY, WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY EVENING 
From 9 to 12:30
Duquesne Garden Ballroom
The "Ballroom Beautiful"
Under the Direction of
Mr. William E. McCoy and Miss Helen Withum
PITTSBURGHS SOCIETY BALLROOM DANCERS
Formerly of the William Penn and Fort Pitt Hotels.
Beginning Oct. 2, Dancing Tues. Thur. & Sat. evenings
NEW YORKS LATEST JAZZ MUSIC
-----------By---------------
RIEHLS JAZZ ORCHESTRAJ. Oliver Riehl at the piano.
SOPHMORES WIN IN
MJPRtMACY CONTESTS
(Continuoa From rage One.) 
Cloves; and the Plebes rejoiced when 
Lusk gained the decision over Lingent'elzer, a Soph, bringing the score to 
15 for the Plebes and .10 for the Sophs. 
Koled, Soph heavyweight, evened the 
score, 15 to 15, when he gained the de
cision in his bout with Carroll.
Elliott starred for the Sophs and 
Bloom for the Plebes in the hockey 
game, which the Plebes won, 3 to 
Noither team showed much defensive 
skill, duo to Inexperience.
The most laughable contests of the 
I afternoon were the lmrrel-tiltlng 
j matches. Levine, Plebo, came back for 
; revenge in the lightweight tilt and 
j got it, at the expense of Harris. Alex
ander beat Hubbard, Plobe, In the mldj dloweighl. match, and Barbozti, Soph, 
| won the heavyweight match, which 
I was the most interesting of the afterj noon, from Dunlop, after both had 
fallen together several times, The 
I score now was: Plebes, 80; Sophs,
25.
'Ilio game of Indian Hall was de; dared a draw. The hall was noarly 
I always In Plebe territory, but the 
Sophs wore not able to score.
The Sophs now began to get busy 
.and captured all throe of the barrel| boxing bouts, Wonnlng wlpnlng 
against Boeglor, Doyle gaining the deI eislon over Broch In the middleweight 
affair, and liats" Altsohul, who yield
ed to popular demand for his entry, 
winning the heavyweight match from 
Gorman, after both had embraced 
each other several times.
The tug-of-war, with twenty-five men 
on each side, was won by the Sophs, 
wholl brought the final score to 55 
to 35.
The band made its initial appear 
ance at the contests after escorting 
the Plebes, who marched a la Sing 
Sing, to the field.
Mr. McCulloch, who supervised the 
contests, was ably assisted by Mr. Eyman and Joe Clloynski. Heywood, 
Science Soph, was the ofllciai an
nouncer.
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiw
'< M
THE 
SENSIBLE 
TYPEWRITER
tyjyao
The Personal Writing Machine 
So simple In construction 
and operation that any
one can use It without 
previous experience. : :
WEIGHS 6 POUNDS 
Price $50
Call 343 Court or Write
Standard Typewriter Co.
129 FIFTH AVENUE 
FREE DEMONSTRATION 
OPEN EVENINGS
Illlllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllll
Discipline of Military Training Is What 
American Youth Needs
By E. P. Ripley, President of the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway
We are the most lawless people of any civilized nation, and X believe 
the reason for this is the lack of discipline in the American home, and 
lax administration of our laws.
Our children, as a class, resent discipline as an infringement upon 
their rights. They are headstrong and inconsiderate. Not being con
trolled and guided, they lack self-control. In failing to insist upon imme
diate and full compliance with reasonable requests, parents do their chil
dren a grave injustice and make trouble for them and others in the years 
to come.
Similarly our courts and juries are too lenient in punishing infrac
tions of law. It is my opinion, after a long period of observation and 
study, that the best corrective of this condition is compulsory military 
training. This would do more than any other agency to build up the 
physical manhood of young men, to instill patriotism, to create a respect 
for authority, to teach self-control and make the young man taking it 
more capable of adapting himself to meet any situation in life. It would 
broaden his vision, clarify his thinking, and bring home to him the fact 
that in a democracy every man owes his country an obligation that, 
whether rich or poor, he must pay in personal service and upon equal 
terms with every other young man in the country and must yield obedi
ence to authority.
The next important factor in the safeguarding of our country is the 
compulsory use of the franchise. Popular government, or. as the greatsouled Lincoln said, a government of the people, for the people and 
by the people, requires that everyone entitled to vote shall do so. The 
price we must pay for liberty, if it is to continue, is training for citizen
ship plus sacrifice and service.
.............-.... <
DR. JAMES RECEIVES
CAPTAINS COMMISSION
(Continued From Page One) 
men I: officials as well as by the engi
neers of the country and it is no won
der his assistance was sought.
Practically all of the senior chem
icals and a large number of juniors 
have enlisted as engineers or are in 
the service of important chemical 
plants.
During Professor James absence, 
Dr. Harris, with the assistance of 
Messrs Stevens, Griffin, Turnock and 
Alexander, will conduct the work of 
the chemical department. Mr. G. C. 
Smith, '14, is a new member of the 
staff.
The incoming Plebes are to be con
gratulated upon important curriculum 
changes whereby a three hour, in 
place of the two hour period for chem. 
lab, and two lectures per week, in
stead of one as last year are offered. 
These changes will add greatly to the 
efficiency of the course.
Dr, Harris has in press a book en
titled, Lecture Notes In Goneral 
Chemistry," the advance pages of 
which lie hopes to have ready for the 
incoming class. Mimeograph sheets 
of a new laboratory manual will also 
be used.
Our convenient location in Oakland 
enables us to give you excellent serv
ice. Cleaning and pressing done on 
short notice. Special service to fra
ternities and rooming houses. Let us 
have a trial order. Call Schenley 875.
J. E. T. SHUMAN 
3911 Forbes Street
WENIGER
JEWELERS AND OPTICIANS 
Repairing of all kinds prompt
ly attended to. Eyes tested, 
glasses fitted. We guarantee all S our work.
Bell Phone 1114-J Hiland.
[|] No. 105 SHADY AVENUE  
I EAST LIBERTY Pittsburgh, Pa. {|
feMcl/cMcl/M
DUQUESNE THEATRE
When John Cort presents for the 
approval of Pittsburgh theater-goers 
his latest production at the Duquesne 
theater next Monday evening, Sep
tember 17, he will also make it de
pendent. upon Western Pennsylvania 
to supply a fitting title for the play. 
Mr. Cort has been casting about for 
a name that will properly convey in 
not more than three words a clear 
idea of what the play means and at 
the same time carry an appealing ap
pearance.
Josephine Victor is the featured 
member of a large cast which also 
Includes Ramsey Wallace, Frank 
Sheridan, Paul Everton, Marie Cham
bers and Mabel Carruthers.
DAVIS THEATER
"Peacock Alley, which Is the show 
promenade of the Waldorf-Astoria Ho
tel In Now York, has been transferred 
to the stage In comedy drama form 
and will be offered as a tabloid in the 
program of refined vaudeville at the 
Davis Theatre every afternoon and 
evening next week, beginning Mon
day, September 24.
Miss Blackburn, who assumes the 
principal part, has had an interesting 
career in musical comedy, and is per
haps best known as the Fencing Girl 
with Anna Held in The j little Duchp.se  . - .' - .....

---------------------------------------------------

Page FourH-ilii" i "i .
THE TAETANWednesday, September 26, 1917 A
rasisisM3EH0a3MSi3MS0MSH5Mc!BaEMaM2MaMaaMEEMSisrasjEjaKEJEj
I
|ra
lila
SHOES
'll&ers hoes L/orMen
Spec mi i A i cy
EaMy Fall models that have the s 
snap. 
LOU BEIGEL
6204 PENN AVENUE 
EAST LIBERTY
Schenley Theatre
Abom Comic Opera Company
Presenting Light Operas and Musical Comedies, 
i CHORUS OF 40 ORCHESTRA OF 20
TTThe Pi refly
By RUDOLF FLIML and OTTO HAUERBACH
-----------To Be Followed By--------------
October 1"The Spring Maid;" October 8Chocolate Soldier; 
October 15"The Prince of Pilsen; October 22Robin Hood, The 
Red Mill, The Red Widow, The Blue Paradise and others.
PRICESEvenings and Saturday Matinee, 25c, 50c, 75c; Bargain  
Matinee Thursday, 25c and 50c.
Subscribe Now and Have Same Seats Reserved Each Week.
Free Parking Station.
COMMISSIONS GRAN I Eli TU MEN AT FIRST HENI
T. E. Orr Carries Off First 
/. Lieutenancy From Fort 
Niagara
Among the Tech men who attended 
the first. Officers' Training Camp, sev
eral cases are worthy o 1 special no
tice. T. E. Orr, probably the busiest 
man in last years Senior Class, at 
tended Fort Niagara. At the conclu
sion of his training he was immediate
ly commissioned as a first lieutenant, 
whereas the great majority of the men 
made only the rank of second lieu
tenant. Orr is now at work in the 
South.
William F. Schverin, former track 
manager at Tech, was commissioned 
as a second lieutenant in 'the engi
neers section. He spent three months 
at Fort Niagara and several Weeks of 
intensive training at Belvoir, Va., and 
at Washington.
Other Tech men who attended the 
first, camp are, D. C. Green, L. H. Hale, 
J. B. Schumaker, F. W. Smith, H. J. 
Scobell, L. II. Boss, F. W. Smith and 
M. E. Green.
!/i5J3/2S/3Jrn/32/i2JT2clJ3/cy3fin/5/3J3/Si3/i3J3/nilMfDl3/in5ii3JS/Sf3S/S/S/S/3/2/S3/Si0/n2J&fSSiS3Jt3/5/SlS/t3J
IIDO YOU DANCE?
m DANCING LESSONS CLASS AND PRIVATE
JACQUES DANCING ACADEMY
|j CRAIG AND FORBES BELL PHONEp3
CITY ELECTRIC CO.
436 Seventh Ave.
All Kinds of BATTERIES; 
SERVICE Repaired and Recharged |
HiBllllllIi  ' i^i-iiii lrit ii! i1' lUi ik'1!  r 'F ^i'iiij'iNNi' 'i; i: ij| ;i .ii iiijMi.j ii j'iiiiiiif !,:;!: i; TT TTRQ^MVL
Carnegie Institute of Technology
THE Carnegie Institute of Technology consists of four separate 
schools, each with its own faculty, buildings and students 
The courses of Instruction offered are:
School of Applied Science--Offers courses in chemical, civil, 
commercial, electrical, mechanical, metallurgical, mining, and sanitary 
englnerelng, loading to the degree of Bachelor of Science. Also 
courses in science in preparation for teaching or for research and graduate courses.
School of Applied DesignOffers courses In architecture, paint
ing. decoration, illustration, music, sculpture and dramatic arts, open 
to moil and women, leading to thu degree of Bachelor of Arts. Also graduate courses.
School of Applied Industries Offers industrial courses in ma
chine construction, building construction, general equipment and 
installation, and printing. Also a, course for training industrial 
teachers, loading to the degreo of Bachelor of Science In Industrial 
Education. Short courses of eight months are offered in mnclmie 
shop, pattern making, mechanical drawing, decirle wiring, plumbing, 
foundry, forging and bricklaying for more mature applicants who 
have had some experience In these trades,
Mnrgaret Morrlaon Cnrneglo School...For women. Offers a regu
lar day course of general training, with particular emphasis on 
home-making, followed by specialized, training in household eco
nomics, costume economies, home arts and crafts, general science, 
or social work, loading to the degree of Bachelor of Science. Also 
Courses for the training of teachers in the above subjects.
Night Courses The four schools offer night courses In practic
ally nil of the above subjects to provide educational opportunities for those who arc at work during the day.
Fees The total fees for a day course are $48.00 a year for resi
dents of Pittsburgh and $1)8.00 for non-residents. For night courses 
$1(1,00 for residents, and fl.8.00 for non-residents.
For further Information address Registrar, Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, Pittsburgh.
P-i inBell Phone 3465 Grant. [H
| J. G. Marshall I 
Company
1 OFFICE, SCHOOL AND
LIBRARY FURNITURE 
H 959 LIBERTY AVENUE 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
& FOUR CHAIRS NO WAITING I 
| HAIR CUTTING A SPECIALTY |
I J. M. F. Moeller !
Xn 2GSFTHY ,SjPyj
3721 FORBES STREET
A Typewriter Exceptional
For Collegians 
ClmtiRe your type in nn inatnnt from one 
tyle to anotheror nny laiiiuugc.
THE
MULTIPLEX
Two sets'of type in each machine.
Juit Turn tlir Knob /Ve.sto onn or iho other 
SimpleCompnclPort nblc
Beautiful workbeyond compare.
If not incliped to a new machine, 
inquire for our Factory Rcbuiltn.
We Rent Machines of high quality. 
Patrons * President Woodrow Wilson Cardinal Merry del Val Dr. Alexander Graham Bell Chancellor Rev. B. G. Trant Bishop John G. Murray William Dean Howells also all Colleges and Universities 
Our spccial terms to collegians will 
interest you. Catalog for the asking.
I Hammond Typewriter Co.
545 East 69 th Street IBNew York City. N. Y. ^ocQcr ;R BLDG., PITTSBURGH
4* 4* * 4* 4* * 4* 4 * * 4* 4* 4* 4* *
4* OLD TARTANS WANTED
4* In order to complete the files
? of Tartans for binding, the board 
4 desires to secure the following 
4* issues and will pay ten cents for 
4* each:
4* Year 1007-8, one copy each of No. 
4* 10, 11, 1G, 17, 19.
4 190S-9, one copy each of Nos. 1, 
4 15, 23.
4* 1900-10, one copy each of Nos. 
I* 10, IS, 19.
4* 1910-11, one copy of No. 17.
* 1911-12, one copy each of Nos. 3,
I* 0, 10, 11, 12, 18, 14, 15, 11!, IS,
4* 22, 24, 28, 29, 32.
I* 1915-3 G, five copies each of Nos. 
I* 1, 3-1, two copios of No. 3.
4 191(5-17, five copies of No. 1.
1 4 *1* 4 4* *1* *1* 4* 4* * 4* I* 4* 4* *5* 4* *1*
WOODLAWN CLUB HELD 
FIRST HOUSE DANCE
After reviewing The Burying of the 
Hatchet, of Tech's annual Fall Festi 
val, the members of the Woodlawn 
club proceeded to their house at 5S04 
Forbes street and held a house dance. 
About thirty couples wTere in attend
ance and a delightful evening was 
spent in dancing. Music was furnish
ed by G. F. Schnabel, pianist.
STUDENT ENROLLMENT 
GREATLY DECREASED
Registration in the Science School 
this year has shown a remark
able decrease. Although the numbers 
given below will be considerably in
creased by the admission of students 
who are now waiting for special facul
ty action in order to obtain a second 
chance, still the size of classes even 
in the first year will probably not ap
proach that of last year. At the be
ginning of this week the regularly en
tered students numbered as follows:
Senior's ............................. 29
Juniors ............................... 63
Sophomores ...................... 86
Piebes ...............................260
With but one man in certain of the 
Senior sections, as Chemical and Sani
tary, and only two in the Junior, Min
ing and Sanitary sections, it is no 
wonder that the whole school has fal
len from its former size down to 438 
pupils. Even the Plebe classes as it 
is, at present constituted, is nearly a 
hundred less than last year.
In other schools a corresponding 
decrease is seen. For example the 
Design Junior class started out with 
about five, but may reach as high as 
fifteen. There are around a. hundred 
Design Plebos with girls in the ma
jority.
RHODES SCHOLARSHIP ELECTIONS POSTPONED
An announcement has been made 
by .Mr. George R. Parkin of the RhodeB 
Scholarship Trust to the effect that 
no elections for the Scholarships of 
1 IS will be made at the present time. 
His statement, is as follows:
Since coming to the United States 
1 find that the entry of tills country 
Into the war has fundamentally chang 
ed the conditions which have obtain
ed In the past and under which it js 
desirable that, elections should be 
made. Nearly all candidates eligible 
by age and physical qualifications for 
holding the Scholarships are also 
liable to be called upon for military 
service. I have learned that many in
tending candidates, have already vol
unteered as soldiers and given up 
their thought of competing. Physical 
unfitness which secures, exemption 
from active service would, in almost 
every case, disqualify for election to 
a Scholarship, and it seems unfair 
that, men taking military service 
should therefore be cut off from the 
chance to compete.
Under these circumstances, I have 
advised the trustees that all elections 
should be postponed for the present 
year. The trustees have approved this 
policy, which has been endorsed by 
several Presidents of American uni
versities -whom I have been able to 
consult.
No elections will therefore be made 
tiiis autumn for the Scholarships of 
1913. Meanwhile, in order that candi
dates who have prepared to take the 
qualifying examination may do so, 
and thus become .eligible at the next 
election of Scholars, the examinations 
arranged for October second and third 
next will be held in all states where 
candidates present themselves. Those 
who pass will have the right, as long 
as they are within the age limit, to 
compete in succeeding elections."
The qualifying examinations for the 
state of Pennsylvania will be held at 
the University of Pittsburgh on the 
above' dat.es.
ANNUAL FALL FESTIVAL | 
PROVESJiREAT SUCCESS!
(Continued From Page One.) 
walking by, bewildered and lost in a 
sea of undecision, not knowing where 
to go. He feels the burdens of duty to 
country and duty to self bearing down 
upon him and feels that he must act 
quickly. In his despair to know what 
to do, suddenly help comes through 
the spirit of patriotism, (Miss Eula 
Guy). She defined what true patriot
ism is and tells the youth that his 
country has left on his shoulders the 
greatest task of all: To forfeit all
the new adventures offered by the var
ious lines of military activity and to 
go back to the routine of college life 
in order to develop himself so that, 
as a man, he can be able to guard 
those things dear to the hearts of all 
his fellow men. She gives the youth 
the fire of learning, which lie. care
fully kindles into a larger fire and 
guards.
The theme of Miss Bennetts pro
logue was particularly fitting as pre
sented at this time to an audience, 
the majority of which were college 
students. And added to the fact of 
its being a particular help to many 
of those who saw it, was the extreme 
beauty of the lines, both in their 
phrasing and in their metrical value.
Mr. Church and Miss Guy both in
terpreted the parts very well, and as 
each has a voice quite fitted for this 
particular line of work, the whole per
formance was quite enjoyable.
The second half of the program 
was the Indian Battlequite full of 
local atmosphere. The wild dances 
of the Soph tribe, mad in their mood 
of prosperity and security, are inter
rupted by a messenger bringing news 
of an invasion. The leaders of the 
invading Plebe tribe and those of the 
Soph tribe have a council and the in
vaders are refused seats at the coun
cil fire of learning. This percipitates 
a battle and for a while it rages hot, 
but in the midst of shot and shell (?) 
comes the interruption of the Senior 
tribe, whose chief demands that the 
strife end and that the GREEN in
vaders, quite large in the head, be 
given , seats around the fire of learn
ing and that the hatchet be buried.
The whole performance was quite 
picturesqueespecially the wild danc
es around,the council fire. The Tecliites made quite fearful looking In
dians with their feathers, paint and 
blanketssome of which were quite 
hard t!o irianage during the dances.
Each one in the cast got his lines 
over and all deserve credit. Mr. Tair - 
tine, especially, deserves credit for 
his voice and good carriage.
The Cast of the Play:
The Senior Chief..!.........A. C. Man
The Sophomore Chief. .N. E. La Marcn
The Plebe Chief...........Hugo Taustine
The Runner  ..................J. C. Keaney
Properties.
J. R. Gearheart, James Church, 
David Gaither, G. E. Walker, Ellen 
B. Crowe, Katherine Jones.
The evening closed with the an 
nual bonfire and It surely was a 
whopper! The Piebes gathered in a 
solid line and were made to proclaim 
the fame of Tech, while they hopped, 
skipped and jumped under the tuition 
of the active Sophs, who wished for 
one last job!
MARGARET MORRISON PLEBES ENTERTAINER
The committee of Plebe Advisors 
of M. M. C. S., of which Miss Sturtevarit is chairman, gave a most success
ful party to the Piebes in Recreation 
Hall, Friday afternoon. Every Plebe 
was out and had a good time. Miss 
Coleman, the new gym. teacher, had 
charge of the games. Miss King and 
Miss Stone led the cheers. Miss 
Keefer furnished the* music for danc
ing. Both Dean Breed and the Direc
tor were present. Every one voted it 
the best party ever.
FOOTBALL FACING TROUBLES
(Continued From Page One.) 
four men who have had college ex 
perience. Levinson played on the 
Penn State Freshman team two years 
ago, and wras out of school last year; 
he is now a Sophomore Metallurgist. 
Carroll, a colored lad, played for the 
Cornell Freshmen last year, and. has 
been practicing some at guard here 
this year. Hoy, member of Dart
mouths team last year, is at Tech 
now and is expected to come out for 
the team within a few days.
The rest of the squad is unexperi
enced, except for high school work in 
some cases. Many of the men are 
badly hampered by lack of -weight and 
size, although some are large enough 
and have done good work in other 
sports. Foxon, Gretzler, Carey, Kofed, 
and Levy, for example, were all mem
bers of the,basketball squad last year.
| In all, some sixty men have been re
portingwhich is encouraging if they 
all stick. More men yet are needed, 
and an effort is being made to reach 
every likely man in school.
On Monday eveninghis first look 
at the teamCoach Steffen naturally 
had no statement to make. Affairs 
went on much as before. On one side 
of the field, the line men practiced 
under Dr. Marks. \ Seven men would 
line up on both sides, someone called 
signals, and then they rushed. Mean
while Coach Steffen had several 
groups of backfield men chasing over 
the rest of the fieldlearning how to 
ferasp the ball, chiefly. Practice has 
progressed just a little every day, 
and no doubt will continue to do so.
5* 4* 4 4 * 4* { ?!* 4 4* 4* 4* *1* 4* 4* 4* 4*
* SUBSCRIPTION BOOKS *
* -------- 4*
4* Each subscriber to The Tartan * 
*1* has been provided with a book 4* 
-I* containing thirty-six tickets. Each * 
1* ticket is good for one issue, the 4* 
4 distribution as in former years 4 
4 being made by salesmen on Wed4 nesday of each week. However, ** 
4 this year Tartans will positively * 
4* not be given out unless the sub- 4 
4* scriber has with him the correct 4 
J number in his book. 4*
4* It is also to be noted that the 4* 
4* subscription books will be handy 4* 
4* things to carry, inasmuch as they 4* 
4* contain several blank pages 4* 
4* which may be used, for memor- 4 
4* andums. 4*
44*4*4*4*4*4*44,4*4*44*4*4*4*4*
P.LUDEBUEHL & SON
SHOES AND HOSIERY PEHN Al FRANKSTOWN 
Footprints Lead to Detection
. The standing of a man is as often 
as not told by his footwearif he' is 
careless of that, he's apt to be negli
gent of more important things. If 
you will buy your shoes here, you may 
be certain of looking all right, feeling 
all right and impressing others with 
the fact that you are all right. Our 
Shoes are built by some of the most 
representative Shoe Manufacturfers. in 
the world.
$3.50 to $10.00 the Pair Special Mens Dept.
piiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimmiiiiiiiinpiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiM
Oakland Savings & Trust Co.
. THE OAKLAND BANK
CAPITAL,.........................................................................$200,000.00 j
1 SURPLUS,........................................................................$200,000.00 jj
DEPOSITS OVER $3,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillll^
THE NEW FRAMELESS INDICATOR
K. & E. Adjustable Slide Rules, Manheim Polyphase Duplex, Polophase Duplex, Log-Log, etc., T Squares, Triangles, ScalesA complete 
line for the Artist, Draughtsmen and Student. Agents for Keuffel & 
Esser Companys Drawing Materials.
r ;SO 
U
( _
KURTZ, LANGBEIN & SWARTZ 
535 Wood Street At Sixth Avenue
Order Your Personal Christmas Cards Now.
Mllilllllllllllilllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillll
A National Institution
| Browning, King & Company |
CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS AND HATS FOR 
MEN, BOYS AND CHILDREN 
439-441 WOOD STREET
fimiiPlill......IlilllilllllllllU.....Illlllllll.....
i!
HARRY T. BROWNm
OAKLAND AVENUE MARKET
Special Prices to Fraternities 
Wholesale and Retail Fruits and Vegetables |
lillll!IIIIIIIIIi!illl!IIII!l[l!llll!lllllllll!llll!lll!!llllllllll!lllll!lll!!lllltll!lllllllllll!lillllill!'i!ll![lll![l!ll[!lllll!llll!IIIIII![lll!lll!llllillllllllll!l!illl!ill!!lllllil!l[ll![lll!IIIIi!lli!lllll!l!llllP!l!llli[l!!i[li
llll!lllllll!ll!l!llll!ll!llll!llll!llll!llllllllllllllllllUUIilllllllllllllIllltllll>U!tllllllll!!ll!!IIIHIIIIIIIUIIIIl!llUllllllllllllll!!l!lUllll!lllliUlUIIUIllllllllillin!l!!;Skibo Inn
LUNCHES 
You cant miss us.
GROCERIES TOBACCO CANDY fg
Patronize Home Industry
Woodlawn Avenue. J
iiitiiiiiHiiiiin
Bell, 9169 and 578 Schenley--PHONES--P. & A., 1092-R
W. J. MOORE, President
OAKLAND EXPRESS & TRANSFER CO.
(Incorporated)
MOVING AND STORAGE, TRUNK AND BAGGAGE DELIVERY 
229 ATWOOD STREET PITTSBURGH, PA. 1
lllllllllllilllllllllilllllllltlllllllllllllllllll
McDOUGrALLS DANCING* CLASSES
SHADY AND PENNDANCES MONDAY, THURSDAY, SATURDAY 
4616 FORBES STREETFRIDAY EVENINGS 
Private Lessons and Beginners Classes every day and evening. 
Jazz Fox Trot Ramble Waltz Mirimba Orchestra
SLIDE RULES
Before buying a slide rule see our New Improved Phillips Slide 
Rule with glass frameless indicator and improved automatic adjust
ment.Eugene Dietzgen Company
MANUFACTURERS 
Drawing Instruments and Supplies
Engineering and Surveying Instruments 
SPECIAL PRICES TO STUDENTS 
805 LIBERTY AVENUE : : : : : PITTSBURGH, PA.
SCHENLEY EATS
A good place to get a good meal.
Meet your friends here on 
Sunday evening.
jj FRED SUDDEBY, Proprietor. 
CRAIG AND FORBES
MSMSMSMSlSMSMMSMSMSMS/c
Liberty ShowE 
Print
PHIPPS POWER BUILDING 
Duquesne Way and Fifth Ave. 
PITTSBURGH
~ HOTEL SGHENLE '
BARBER SHOP
---------and------
POCKET POOL ROOM 
Under new management.
JACK C. ELLSLAYER 
M J. H. CROLL
p| Formerly at Fort Pitt Hotel.
itTECH
M Pins, Rings and of.her jewelry, m 
N. J. CAMPBELL 
fj Locker 1863, Science Building jj 
311 WEST DORM.
ihiiiM
