C & -jrin
Vol. VII. No. 6 Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania November 7, 1912.
In the first snow storm of the season, 
the Varsity finished strong and beat out 
the Bethany eleven by the score of 14 to 6. 
The field was dry and fast and the weather 
a touch of real winter, putting energy 
and life into the players.
The visitors experienced this first and 
scored their touch down early in the initial 
quarter. The Plaid defenders were rather 
listless in this period and the one succeed
ing, and were held easily by Bethany.
The play was entirely in Bethany terri
tory in the second quarter, but the Car
negie offense failed at critical times, with 
the result that no points were scored. 
The fault lay with the line, the backfield 
performing well. After the intermission 
both teams showed an improvement in 
form, and the struggle became a hot 
battle. The ball wavered around mid
field for a time, then the Plaid started a 
march down the field. A long run by 
Park, and a short punt out of bounds by 
Smith, aided in placing the ball on the 
25 yard line. Stonerod attempted a field 
goal but the ball went low. A blocked 
kick, a 13 yard return of a punt by Stone
rod, and a 20 yard run by Park scored 
six points for us. Humble, used as a 
pinch kicker, place-kicked the goal as 
the quarter ended.
From the kick-off the Plaid team start
ed out for blood. Ache pulled off a 25 
yard run, and Park made a run good for
13 yards. Then Ache took the oval to 
the shadow of the goal posts, and Park
NIGHT PREPS ORGANIZE
On Wednesday evening, October 30th, 
a meeting of the Night Preparatory Classes 
in the School;of Applied Industries was 
called for the purpose of - organization. 
After a short address by F. J. Hartman, 
assistant to Dean Connelly, an unusually 
spirited election took place with following 
result :
C. E. Price....................................President
G. T. Montgomery............Vice President
K. E. Hirsch...........Secretary & Treasurer
Clement Sullivan..Historian & Tartan Rep
J. E. Morgan...............Athletic Chairman
About 150 men took part in the election 
and the result was reached in an incredi
bly short time.
After the meeting, the newly elected 
officers met for consultation with Dean 
Connelly and here is the ultimatum which 
the class issues to the other night men: 
Cur class i making great preparations 
for the coming year. We have decided 
to set the pace for th other night classes.
went over on a cross-play. Cla'r made the 
score 14 points to 6. Punting featured 
the remainder of the game, the ball never 
being in scoring distance of either goal.
Both teams played cleanly, the only 
penalties being for offside with one or two 
for holding. The officials were fair and 
expert, and no delays were caused by 
disputes. Former coach Bill Knox act
ed as referee but could not be accused 
in any way of favoritism to his one-time 
pupils. A feature of the game, to Car
negie fans, was that absolutely no time 
was taken out by our team because of 
injuries to players. This speaks well for 
the condition of the players, as several 
recent cripples were back in the game, and 
means big chances for the remaining games.
Engstrom played at center throughout 
the game and covered himself with glory. 
His passing has improved and his only 
weakness ka> thus been removed. He 
drew applause by receiving a Bethany 
forward pass, a play that started things 
going in the third quarter. Paterson 
and Fulmer were the stars of the primary 
defense, stopping the Bethany backs for 
small gains when a run was threatened. 
Metheny, Park and Ache starred individ
ually and collective y at carrying the ball, 
each being responsible for repeated gains 
of 5, 10, 15 and 25 yards. Stonerods 
value at quarter-back rose 100 per cent 
in this one game. He varied the attack 
with a nicety that won ground on every 
Continued on page 4
Now that we have made the statement, 
we are going to live up to it. It is merely 
a question of time until there will appear 
the news that the Night Prep men are 
ahead in the race by several laps.
---------------o---------------
CIVIL ENGINEERING SOCIETY
The C. E. Society held their first meet
ing of the year Saturday evening, Novem
ber 2nd, at 8:30.%After the usual business meeting the 
Society adjournedbut not' to leave 
nay, nay, Pauline; they adjourned to 
attend another meeting of a sociable 
kind which opened with eats. The 
eats proved a good starter and after 
them the stories started around and many 
good and interesting topics were discussed 
between puffs and blows of the deep blue 
smoke of contentment. The good time 
broke up about 11:30 and all persons 
present made up their minds to be there 
at the next meeting Saturday evening, 
November 23.
A NOTEWORTHY DINNER
The first dinner of the Faculty of the 
School of Applied Industries, for the pre
sent school year, was held at the Hotel 
Schenley, Saturday evening, November 2. 
About forty members were present and 
thoroughly enjoyed the affair. In addi
tion to fostering a spirit of good fellow
ship, the event was the occasion for two 
addresses which were very entertaining 
and instructive. The speakers were 
Director Hammerschlag and Arthur Burgoyne the All to the Point man of the 
Chronicle Telegraph. Dean Connelly 
acted as master of ceremonies.
The Director in his usual optimistic 
manner gave an interesting account of 
the growth of the Schools of the Institute. 
He told of his interviews with Mr. Car
negie which led to the establishment of 
the Art department in the Design School, 
and told that this particular school is now 
the second of its kind, from the rating of 
attendance in the United States. In 
closing, the Director left a live suggestion 
in the minds of those present, which, if it 
is carried out, means much to the Insti
tute in regard to the relation between 
faculty and students. In closing he gave 
an excellent appreciation of the work of 
Mr. Burgoyne by the way of introduction 
as the next speaker.
The suggestion made to Mr. Burgoyne 
to speak on the Balkan situation was a 
fitting one indeed, in that it gave him the 
opportunity to speak on the Slavonic 
people, their literature and customs, of 
which he has made a special study. His 
first statement, that there were more 
Slavonic speaking people in the world, 
by at least fifty million, than English 
speaking, was a decided surprise to most 
present. He described their native coun
tries, viz:Russia, Poland, Servia, Mon
tenegro and Bohemia, and went into details 
as to the exquisite beauty of their 
language, showing the fine shades of mean
ing of various words and the great possi
bilities of Slavonic literature. He paid 
a high. tribute to Comenius, the recog
nized pioneer of manual and industrial 
training, and John Huss, who did much 
towards making possible a written langu
age to his people, and many other notables 
down to the present Slavonic writers. His 
talk, in short, was a revelation as to whom 
the inhabitant^ of the Balkan peninsula 
really are, and no doubt threw a new 
light on their real purpose in attempting 
to overthrow the fettering influence of 
the Sultan of Turkey. Throughout his 
talk Mr. Burgoyne used the wit and 
humor for which he is so well known, and 
concluded by saying that it was the am
bition of his life, as a pronounced PanSlavist, to be able to devote the remainder 
of his life towards bringing the literature
of the Slav into recognition in educational 
circles.
After the above addresses, Mr. Calderwood entertained those present by selec
tions on the piano, and after separating 
into get acquainted groups, the party 
broke up, all expressing their satisfaction 
as to the success of the evening.
THE FLOOD COMMISSION
Mr. E. K Morse speaks at General 
Lecture
Mr. E. K. Morse, always a friend of 
Carnegie Tech, paid us one of his visits 
and gave us a talk last Wednesday morn
ing in the Science School at the General 
Lecture hour. We are always glad to see 
him, whatever message he has to bring us, 
and we are sure of an interesting talk 
when his name is announced. Last year 
he gave us some new points concerning the 
Panama Canal, which he had visited a 
short time before. This year he is inter
ested in the passage of the bond issue to 
make possible the building of suitable 
walls and wharves along the Allegheny 
and Monongahela Rivers. Such an ar
rangement would not only make better 
shipping facilities for the city but would 
greatly relieve flood conditions at the 
times of high water.
Mr. Morse showed a series of pictures 
showing the deplorable conditions along 
the banks of these rivers, and in contrast, 
a number taken along the rivers in German 
cities, where high flood walls and respect
able looking warehouses have been built, 
showing what can be done by money and 
energy.
The students gave Mr. Morse a rousing 
cheer at the close of the lecture and_he is 
welcome to come back and^talk to us at 
any time.
MORE TENNIS COURTS NEEDED
A desire for more and better tennis 
courts is being expressed in the form of a 
petition. At present the facilities for 
playing tennis are not very good because 
of the lack of courts, and their situation 
Because of the poor condition of the 
courts, the intercollegiate last spring 
matches had to be held on the courts of 
the University Club.
At registration, eighty-one men gave 
their names as being interested in tennis. 
In order to further this sport among the 
students it is necessary to hfove more 
courts and better ones.
InstructorDid you filter this? 
Youth (with a sly smile)No; I was 
afraid it wouldnt stand the strain. 
Harvard Lampoon.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE TARTAN
Published weekly by the Undergraduates 
of the Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
THE TARTAN
Business communications should be 
addressed to the BUSINESS EDITOR; 
all articles and other communications 
shouldbe sent'to]the EDITOR-IN-CHIEF.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
Yearly"$1.00 5c per Copy
Entered in the Post Office of Pitts
burgh as second class matter.
PITTSBURGH, PA., NOV. 7, 1912.
BOARD OF EDITORS. 
Donald D. Mitchell, 13.Editor-in-Chief 
G. Guy Kelcey, 14.. Business Editor
C. B. Kline, 13..........Athletic Editor
Eugene Dowling, 09..Alumni Editor 
Albert E. Ball, 13.... Science Editor
A. H. Good, 14............Design Editor
Guy Elliott, 13.... Industries Editor
Margaret H. Webb, 14..................
........................M. M. C. S. Editor
W. H. Searight, 15. Exchange Editor
Charles E. Gilson, 14....................
..................Assistant News Editor
VV. I. Wilson, 16.............................
Assistant to the Athletic Editor
The Tartan has been handed a letter by 
President Crawford of the Musical Clubs 
and takes great pleasure in reprinting the 
same in full. It is an excellent example 
of the spirit Carnegie is building up and 
should serve as an example for under
graduates, showing as it does the love in 
which the graduates hold their Alma Mater 
The letter in full is as follows:
Niagara Falls, N. Y.
Oct. 11, 1912.
Mr. R. M. Crawford,
President Musical Clubs.
Dear Sir :
I see by this weeks Tartan, just received, 
that there is a movement in progress to 
give prizes for good, original, C. I. T. 
songs. Good work! You will be helping 
to fill a need that has existed since 1905, 
when the Charter Class first gathered in 
the partly finished buildings. So I want 
to help the contest along by adding my 
little share to the value of the prizes and 
I enclose a check for $10.00 for that pur
pose.
In my experience with the Musical 
Clubs during their 2nd, 3rd, and 4th sea
sons, I had ample time to note the effect 
of a stirring Carnegie song in strengthen
ing that spirit which has grown so rapidly 
for a new school and of which we are so 
proud. We cannot have too many C. I. T. 
songs.
Yours in Carnegie,
Frederick L. Koethen, 
Applied Science 1908.
In the recently published register of 
graduates, we note the passing of another 
mile post in the career of Carnegie Tech. 
This register, giving the names, addresses, 
and places of employment of all the gradu
ates from the four schools, dating back to 
the first classes in 1908, is certainly an 
interesting and helpfu record, and much
credit is due the compilers for their careful 
work.
The fact that the alumni of Carnegie 
are doing so well should incite every stu
dent now in school to renewed effort, so 
that when graduated, he also may be able 
to keep up the high standing and excellent 
reputation now attributed to graduates 
of Tech.
On Saturday last we saw another ex
ample of Carnegie spirit on the first real 
football day of the season, with the air 
filled at times with flying snow. We saw 
our team come back in the second half 
and win their game. It was an uphill 
fight and by no means an easy one, but 
the men on the team stuck to their job 
and when the final whistle was blown 
they trotted to their dressing rooms the 
victors. There need be no fear with such 
a team. Victorious or beaten, they will 
be a credit to the institution they represent.
In the last issue of the Tartan we spoke 
of the poor work of the cheering section, 
the failure to follow the leaders, and made 
the remark that, due to the condition of 
the field, the game was slow and did not 
present many opportunities for the dis
play of enthusiasm. Such was not the 
case last Saturday and the same excuse 
can not be offered. The game did present 
and call for combined cheering and we do 
not think that the men in the stand re
sponded as they should have. Not that 
there was not volume, for there was. It 
was the lack of concerted effort, the failure 
to follow the cheer-leaders, that causes 
us to say that the work of the cheering 
section was a failure. Let us see if we 
can back up the excellent work of the 
team by work equally good in the stands. 
Get together and follow the cheer leaders.
It was pleasing to see so many old 
graduates in the stands last Saturday 
It was equally strange to see the number 
of Mrs. old graduates present also.
Coach Marks gave us a new one when 
he put in a pinch goal kicker. We sup
pose that that functionary will soon be
come as necessary as the pinch hitter to 
the base ball team.
We should like to call the attention of 
everybody to the form displayed by our 
Athletic Editor as he runs up and down 
the side lines.
We have heard that all newspaper men 
are liars. But we know that all liars are 
not newspaper men, as witnessed by the 
collection in the press-box each Saturday.
Poor old Pitt held Notre Dame to a
3-0 score.
How nice it was to have no classes on 
Monday. How much nicer it would have 
been to have no classes an the day after.
NON-SHATTERING GLASS
A new kind of glass has been invented 
called triple glass. Its advantages 
over ordinary glass is that a blow which 
would shatter an ordinary pane and scat
ter the pieces in all directions, merely 
causes a multitude of cracks in a pane 
of triple glass, and a clean hole where 
the missile penetrated. A nail or spike
can be driven through a pane of triple 
glass leaving a clean round hole and a 
large number of cracks radiating from 
the hole.
The new glass is made by coating each 
of two sheets of glass on one side with 
a film of gelatin, placing the two sheets 
with the gelatin films toward each other 
and a thin layer of celluloid between 
them, and subjecting the whole to a 
heavy pressure. The brittleness of the 
glass is greatly decreased and the trans
parency is unimpaired.
Triple glass will find a use in railway 
cars and other places where injuries 
caused by flying glass are common. 
------------o------------
Question: If Prof. Trinks ran a mile
race, would the last lap be the exhaust lap?
Answer: It depends on what the lead
was.
------------o------------
REMOVED
CrawfordI hear he was operated on. 
What did he have?
CrabshawMoney.  New York 
Times.
NO BETTER
SillicusThere is honor among 
thieves.
CynicusNonsense! Thieves are just 
as bad as other people.Life.
EASIER
ElsieAfter I wash my face I look 
in the mirror to see if its clean. Dont you.
Bobby-Dont have to. I look at the 
towel.Boston Transcript.
THE GUILTY PARTY
Judge (sternly)To what do you at
tribute your downfall?
CulpritThe first drink I ever took 
was one you bought me when you were 
trying to get my vote.Puck.
REAL PROOF
That, said Mr. Dustin Stax, is a 
magnificent art treasure.
How do you know? By the painters 
signature?
No. By my own signature on the 
check I gave the dealer.Washington 
Star.
A CHANGE OF MIND.
A good story is told of Sir Wilfrid 
Laurier that well illustrates that 
ready wit for which he is so justly 
famous.
When engaged in a conversation 
with a local abstainer, Sir Wilfrids 
companion- took occasion to denounce 
the practice of christening vessels 
with champagne prior to their launch. 
I dont know that I altogether agree 
with you, replied Sir Wilfrid; for 
to my mind there is a good temper
ance lesson to be found in it. How 
can that be? asked his companion. 
Well, replied Sir Wilfrid, it is 
noticeable that directly after her first 
taste of wine the ship takes to water 
and sticks to it ever after.
DIRECTORY.
ATHLETICS.
Football F. S. Crawford, Japt.
Wm. Finkel, Mgr.
2108 Carson St.
Baseball J. R. Gearhart, Capt.,
E. H. Grotefend, Mgr.,
5437 Aylesboro St.
Basketball
R. W. P. Colvin, Capt.
W. J. Corbett, Mgr.,
5141 Woodlawn Ave.
Track C. M. Crawford, Capt.,
Thor Engstrom, Mgr.,
237 N. Dithridge St 
Tennis Association
A. D. Beeken, Jr., Mgr.
5141 Woodlawn Ave.
SENIOR CLASSES.
Science C. M. Crawford,
IndustriesA. E. Hamilton,
Design A. D. Becken, Jr., Mgr.
M. M. C. S.
Tri Senior, Margaret Eggleston, 
Senior, Laura Green,
SOCIETIES.
Musical Clubs
R. M. Crawford, Pres.
L. E. Griswold, Mgr.
5137 Woodlawn Ave.
White FriarsH. C. Franks, Pres. 
Walter Jones, Jr., Mgr.,
309 Oakland Ave.
SeaunachieF. S. Crawford, Pres., 
Carnegie Band- Cete L. Boyle, Mgr7 
9 Mawhinney Street.
T. A. C.M. G. Kingsley, Pres., 
Draftsmans Club Guy Elliott, Pres. 
T. D. C. Eleanor Tener, Pres.
Civil Engineering Society______ O. N. Hetle, Pres. ______
Fulcrum Club
Thos. O. Carlisle, Pres.
Mho Club R. W. Freeland, Pres. 
Crucible ClubH. G. Texter, Pres., 
Mechanical ClubJ. E. Haines, Pres 
CLUBS AND FRATERNITIES. 
Beta Theta Epsilon
5437 Ayleboro Ave.
Schenley 2508.
Sigma Rho4619 Forbes St.
Schenley 9271-J.
Sigma Tau 5141 Woodlawn Ave.
Schenley 9373-J.
Pi Chapter, Theta Xi
237 Dithridge St.,
Schenley, 9143.
Woodlawn Club
5137 Woodlawn Ave.
Schenley 9020.
Xi Sigma Upsilon
311 McKee Place.
Schenley 9253.
Zeta Lambda Epsilon
4513 Forbes St.
9052-J SchenleyW. H. Rieger, Sec. & Treas., 
Alumni Assn. of Applied Science and 
Design
Room 204 A. & J. Bldg., 
Carnegie Institute of Technology. 
Student Senates
DesignA. H. Good, Pres. 
IndustriesGuy Elliott, Pres.
Delta Mu339 Meyran Ave.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN3
Vol.I N6 C6 alrneg6
MUSICAL CLUBS NOTES
The Carnegie Musical Clubs has been 
secured as an attraction at the second 
annual East Liberty Exposition at the 
Auditorium at that place for Friday night, 
November 8. Two concerts will be given 
on this night, the first beginning at 7:30 
P. M., and ending at 8:30, while the second 
commences one hour later. It will be the 
students first glimpse of the new men, and 
is to be hoped that all Carnegie men 
expecting to attend the Exposition will 
make it fall on this Friday night.
NOTICE TO MUSICAL CLUB MEN
All 1911-12 musical club men are re
quested to report for rehearsals Tuesday, 
Wednesday and Thursday nights of this 
week from five to six oclock P. M.
COME OUT
Boost the Figures
According to the bulletins devised and 
posted by Treasurer A. E. Woods, of the 
Athletic. Association, the student attend
ance at the home games has been falling 
off at a disgraceful rate. At the Waynesburg game, 383 day students, or 48 per 
cent of the enrollment, and 174 night 
students, or 15 per cent of the enrollment, 
were in attendance. At the Grove City 
game, these figures were 352 day students 
or 42 per cent and 228 night students or 
19 per cent. This showed an increase in 
the attendance of night students but an 
a most equal decrease in the attendance 
of day students. At Saturdays game 
with Bethany, the student attendance 
was smaller than before, the figures being 
298 day students, or 35 per cent of the 
enrollneit, and 203 night students, or 16 
per cent of the enrollment. There is no 
apparently good reason for this decrease.
The team is playing better football than 
in the earlier games; the teams it is op
posing are strong and hard fighters; and 
the weather is ideal for football.
Next Saturday, the team will meet 
Westminster, a school that has always 
furnished a strong fight. With our team 
in good condition, the game should be the 
most interesting of the year. Bethany 
beat Westminster 6 to 0, we beat Bethany
14 to 6, and according to straight dope 
we should win 14 to 0. This, as are any 
calcuations based on dope, in uncertain 
enough to warrant you being at the game. 
Boost the percentage column.
HALLOWEEN PARADE
Fully 250 Tech students accepted the 
invitation of the Oakland Board of Trade 
to participate in Oaklands Halloween 
celebration. The students met in front 
of the Industries Building and marched to 
Forbes and Grant Boulevard in a body, 
where the main portion of the parade was 
forming. The band was out in full force, 
and as usual, did itself proud.
The parade itself was over a mile long 
and went down Forbes to Craft to Fifth, to 
Craig. The committee in charge of Techs 
section has been notified that on account 
of our excellent turnout, the award of 
three ribbons had been made to us.
Pitt had also been invited to join in the 
parade and although their uniformed 
band was out, careful inspection failed 
to reveal any Pitt section.
---------------o---------------
NO LIKENESS
Geese are supposed to^be symbolic of 
all that is foolish. * * *
Well, go on. |p H Bll # IF
But you never see an old gander hoard 
up a million kernels of corn and then go 
around trying to mate with a gosling. 
Town Topics.
WELL FITTED
Campaign ManagerI hear poor Jobb 
has lost his memory. Cant remember 
a thing from one day to another.
SecretaryWouldnt he be a good 
man to take charge of the campaign con
tributions ? Baltimore A merican.
NO SECURITY
Hey, waiter, I want to order a steak; 
theres none on the bill of fare.
We are not serving steak to-day, sir. 
You see, we have a new cook, and he has 
not as yet arranged for his bond.Louis
ville Courier-Journal.
PATRIOTIC
Mr. Bryce, the British Ambassador, 
tells a brief, story to illustrate the exalted 
opinion that he thinks Americans gener
ally have of their nationality.
It was in a schoolroom, and during a 
review of h'story since the creation.
Who was the first Iran? the examin
ing teacher asked.
Washington, hastily replied a bright 
boy, quoting a familiar slogan, first in
war, first in peace, first------
Wrong. Adam was the first man. 
Oh, the pupi sniffed disgustedly, if 
you are talking about foreigners 
New York Tribune.
The Shape of Bottom 
NEW CUSTOM SHOE
STOEBENER
Man \Y i 111 Quality Shoes
6227 Penn Avenue 1
6222 Frankstown Avenue LL3.SI 1*11(1
Why Not
3Prc cricks
Pittsburgs Finest Victrola Parlors
For All Your
VICTROLA
Shopping
No matter how large or how small your purchaseyou receive the 
same careful courteous treatment. The unmatchable Frederick, service
always yours.
Attend Our Noon-Time Recitals, Third Floor Auditorium
W. F. Frederick Piano Co.
Knabe and Hardman Pianos; Angelus, Knabe=Angelus and Autotone Players
635=637 Smithfield Street
On the Scent
Teacher. Johnny, can you tell me how 
iron was first discovered?
Johnny. Yes, sir.
Teacher. Well! Just tell the class what 
your information is on that point.
Johnny. I heard pa say yesterday that 
they smelt it.
Phonetics at Fault
Monongaliela House
J. B. KELLEY, Manager
European Plan
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Apropos of examination time, Carl C. 
Peterson, of Dubuque, related at a recent 
dinner some examination stories.
Once in a Bible lesson, he said, I re-, 
peated the test, Arise and take the young 
child and its mother and flee into Egypt. 
And then I showed the children a large pic
ture that illustrated the text in bright colors.
The children studied this picture eagerly 
Then all frowned, all looked rather dis
appointed. Finally a little girl said:
 Teacher, where is the flea? 
An Irishrran stepped into a jewelry store 
to purchase a ring and the jeweler asked 
him: Eighteen carats? No, I havent
been atin carrots. Ive been atin onions, 
if its any^of your business.Exchange.
Sporting Goods, Cutlery, College 
Pennants, Banners & Pillow Tops. 
HUKILL=HUNTER CO.
414 Wood St.
PlERPONT, Si VI TER & CO.
ENQRAVINQ PRINTING
EMBOSSING
Monograms and Crest Stationery promptly furnished in the latest styles in addition to all classes of Art Printing for social and commercial purposes
117-119 SHADY AVENUE

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
BETHANYS SCALP TAKEN
Continued from page one.
play, and the second touch down was the 
result of his quick thinking and general
ship. The others on the team played in a 
manner that showed that Carnegie spirit 
still dominates.
Smith, the captain and fullback of the 
visiting team played most of the game 
for the Blue and White. His punting was 
good, and he was a hard man to hold. 
Shuttleworth, who made the touchdown, 
also played well. His touchdown was 
made following an intercepted forward 
pass. Smith had punted from the 45 
yard line, the ball going over tbe goal 
line. Play was started on our 20 yard 
line, but Shrokshire caught a forward 
pass intended for our men, stopping on 
the 25 yard line. A penalty for offside 
put the oval 5 yards nearer our goal. 
Beck made a scant yard, and Shuttleworth took the ball on a second try. By 
one of those freaks of the game, our men 
fai ed to hold him, and he went over the 
line. The punt-out failed.
The line up:
Carnegie Tech14 Bethany6
Paterson............L. E............................Horne
Crawford (Capt.)L. T....................Harmon
Clair....................L. G........................Rodgers
Engstrom........... C.............................Weils
McCaughey........R. G......................Helmich
Fulmer...:............R. T*.....................Webster
De Muth............R. E. ...........................Cope
Stonerod............ Q................Shuttleworth
Park.....................L. H,.............-..Shrokshire
Ache.....................R. H....................Blanning
Metheny............. F. .........Smith (Capt.)
SubstitutionsCarnegie: Peterson for 
De Muth, Humble for Park, Balsinger for 
Ache, Ache for Balsinger, Park for Hum
ble, Welch for Fulmer; Bethany: Beck
for Blanning, Chestnut for Helmich, Hel
mich for Wells, Blanning for Beck.
Touchdowns: Park 2, Shuttleworth.
Goals from touchdowns: Humble, Clair.
Referee: W. F. Knox, Yale, Umpire:
Hewitt, Penn State. Head Linesman: 
Frey, Fort Pitt A. C.
Time of periods: 12 minutes.
---------------o---------------
How did your act take amateur night? 
Great! When I sang the first verse 
they yelled Fine! and when I sang the 
next they yelled Imprisonment! 
Glass Houses.
Mr. SlimsonWillie, didn't you go to the trunkmakers yesterday and tell him to send round the trunk I ordered?WillieYes, pa.Mr. SlimsonWell, here is the trunk, 
but no strap.
WillieYes, pa; but I told him I 
thought you hadntbetter have any strap.
The man from Punxsutawney and the 
man from Kokomo 
Discussed the Chinese troubles, and 
the first said, Dont you know, 
I think these Chinese names are queer 
enough to stop a clock. 
Thats right! replied another man 
from fair Caucomgomoc.
The man from Kokomo observed, By 
ginger! thats a fact!
Thats what my brother sayshe lives 
down here in Hackensack.
And still another stranger said the 
mans comment was true;
And added, with a smile of pride, My 
homes in Kalmazoo.
Another man took up the strain, Now 
down Skowhegan way 
And up at Ypsilanti we speak it every 
day.
The names are all uncivilized and 
heathen in their ring,
Thats what I told my uncle yester
day in Ishpeming.
Hohokus is my native town, another 
stranger said;
And I think all these Chinese names
The popular  Belmont  notch Collar 
made in self striped Madras. 2 for 25cAfLR-OWC OLLARS
Cluett, Peabody & Co., Makers
the worst I ever read.
Quite true, agreed a quiet man;
theyre certainly uncanny,
Thats what my neighbors all assert in 
Tail Holt, Indianny.
Baltimore American.
Few people have the courage to 
make fun of an old goats whiskers 
right to his face.
If we were as silent with respect to 
our achievements as we are to our 
mistakes, what a silent world this 
would be.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANV5
M. M. C. S. NEWS
Coming.
To M. M. C. S.
A larger representation in the Tartan. 
Watch for the next weeks issue. We 
promise you that it will take you longer 
than the time between periods or the 
time consumed in getting off a street car 
to read the M. M. C. S. News. The 
girls have been accused of lack of initia
tive, of lack of school spirit, and numerous 
other lackings. We, the M. M. C. S. 
Tartan representatives, are endeavoring 
to make the utterers of those words swal
low them, and swallow them hard. And 
now that you girls have heard these base 
accusations, we know that you will give 
us your hearty co-operation and make 
the Tartan what it should be. So,
Write for the Tartan.
Buy the Tartan.
Boost the Tartan.
THE JUNIORS TRIP TO THE H. J. 
HEINZ COMPANY
Pan-Hellenic at M. M. C. S.
In order to forward a co-operative spirit 
among the clubs at M. M. C. S., the four 
oldest sororities have come together in 
Pan-Hellenic organization. This entails
definite rules to be adhered to by all re
cognized sororities in such matters as 
rushing and pledging of new members. 
All sororities wishing to obtain recognition 
and standing in the school should apply 
for admission to the Pan-Hellenic organi
zation. *
Miss Higgins says that rubbers may not 
be stylish but at least they are sensible.
Are you stylish or sensible?
We notice that Helen Dodds used to be 
stylish, but nowwell, just watch her 
feet the next rainy day.
Poor Geary. Dr. Libbey advocates a 
game of football in which it wouldnt be 
necessary to have a jumping jack in front 
of the grand stand to tell you when to cheer 
Poor Geary.
Dr. Libbey also says that athletics in 
the school should be that of a gentleman 
and a scholar taking his exercise, and not 
the amusement of the stock-yard type. 
Which class did you think of when you 
attended the last football game?
Election Returns in M. M. C. S.
Who says women cant vote?
Hurrah for the Bull Moose! This is 
surely his season. He won by an over
whelming majority, and Wilson came in 
second.
Psychology student about to die: At 
least I am going to have an entirely pure 
sensation.
Hurrah for Election Day! !
Why dont they elect a new president 
every year, orno, every six months 
would be better yet.
By the way, girls, Alkali Ike is not to 
go along the next time we visit Heinzs. 
Well, Ill tell you why. She almost neu
tralized the acetic acid in the vinegar 
factory.
In Cooking Class
To begin with, it was a lovely day and 
we had a nice long ride on the street car. 
Lois Turkle was the guide and pointed 
out all the points of interest on the route. 
After our ride we arrived at the Adminis
tration Building and while we waited for 
Miss Anderson we discussed politics and 
criticised the pictures in the waiting room. 
We had two guides through the factory, 
one was a Mr. Kidd and he certainly lived 
up to his name.
We went first to the canning factory 
and saw the method of making cans and 
soldering them. We were rather surprised 
at the number of girls and women in this 
factory. Then we went to the pickle 
bottling factory where we each were given 
a pickle on a toothpick. Then we saw 
some women fixing some apples for mince 
meat.
But the most interesting thing of all 
was the vinegar factory. Heinzs vine
gar does not have any eels in it and the 
aecetic acid i produced by chemical 
means. It was rather weird to wander 
around the dim room among the huge 
generators, and someone suggested ghost 
stories. The only thing that wasnt sour 
in that room was Miss Anderson. It was 
in the vinegar factory that we saw the 
cat that killed the rat, that ate the malt, 
that lay in the house of Heinzs.
We saw so many interesting things that 
it would take too much time to tell about 
them all. In the research laboratory the 
faint delicious odor of H2S recalled sweet 
memories of our Sophomore year and 
and chemistry laboratory.
Then we had lunch and goodness knows 
we were as hungry as we could be. It 
was such an enjoyable trip and we had 
such a delightful time that we all wish to 
thank the H. J. Heinz Company for 
their courteous treatment, the delicious 
lunch and those dear little -spoons that 
we are going to put in our Hope Chests.
In the Psychology Class
Miss Higgins: Miss Sawyer, what is
a mental image?
Fat: A mental image is something
that you have never seen nor heard.
Cordially Invited.
Are you Hungary?
Yes, Siam.
Well, come along; Ill Fiji.Lippincotts.
Just Right Clothing
For College Men
Suits $13.50 to $35.00 
Overcoats $15.00 to $45.00
Just Right Clothing comes direct from maker to wearer. Therefore 
saving the middlemens profit. This item is worthy of consideration.
McCREERY & CO.
Wood and Sixth Street
Brown: I understand that Senator
Green wanted you to act as his private 
secretary. Simmons: He did; but I
wouldnt accept the position, because 
I should have to sign everything 
Green, per Simmons.
Dancing Deportment Aesthetics
McDoagatl Dancing Academies
Wood Street and Fifth Avenue, Downtown 
4614-16 Forbes Street, Oakland 
Penn and Shady Avenues, East Liberty
Did you ever try counting sheep for _____________________________________
your insomnia? f
Yes, doctor, but I made a mess of JclCC|U6S Dancing Academy 
it. I counted 10,000 sheep, put em on 
the cars and shipped em to market.
The wad of money I got for em made 
me afraid to go to sleep.
CRAIG AND FORBES STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
The potato bug is bad enough, but 
the ever-present humbug is worse.
Stop at
STAUFTS
NewsStationerTobacco
3702 Forbes Street,Pittsburgh, Pa.
Bell phone 1587 Court P. & A. phone 3112
WHITTINGTON & CO.
6001-2-3 Jenkins 
Arcade 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
For Hire
Full Dress Suits, Frock 
Coats, Tuxedos, Silk Hats, 
White Vests, S t r i p e d 
Trousers, Opera Hats, 
Black Suits for Funerals.
NewPlace, New Suits 
New Styles
Best service west
of New York
BRANCHES: 
Cincinnai I, Ohio
Vreierlstu fITo
cehgoThu CT.I6
I think, said the astronomer, that I 
have discovered a new canal on Mars. 
Is that so? replied the New Orleans 
man absent-mindedly. I wonder what 
towns going to get the celebration.
She had a voice like a siren, and when 
she sang, Mid play sure, sand palaces, 
though heam a rome, Be it averse oh wum 
bull there, snow play sly comb, and-so 
on to the conclusion, there wasnt a dry 
eye in the room.
Miss Nickerson: Girls, I brought this 
lobster in to show you to him. 
UrbaniteWhat did you come to the 
city for?
Country BoyTo earn an honest living. 
UrbaniteThats all right. Youll find 
no competition.
TO RENTDouble Furnished Room, 
2nd floor front, twelve minutes walk from 
school.
37 North Boquet St.
Phone 988-J Schenley.
Every service a bank may render its 
customers is performed by
The Oakland 
Savings & Trust Co.
Iroquois Block 
Cheerfully, promptly and on the 
best of terms.
Capital $200,000.00
Surplus and Profits $200.000.00
Deposits over $1,300,000.00
Bell Phone 2797 Cedar. P. &. A. Phone 952-AH. A. BECKER,
MUSIC HOUSE EVERYTHING KNOWN IN MUSIC Headquarters for Band and Orchestra Instruments, Music and Supplies 
No 601 Ohio Street m o (_ t. IDcorner of iviiddia N. S., Pittsburgh, Pa.
Enterprise Pressing CompanyCleaners and Dyers
Perfect Work in Ladies Childrens and 
Household Work
Oriental Rugs and Draperies a Specialty 
203 Highland Bldg. Pittsburgh, Pa.
Phones: Office: 449 Hiland Works: 4912 Hiland
THE SCHENLEY FARMS
Pittsburghs Restricted Residence District
THE SCHENLEY FARMS CO.
1412 Farmers Bank Bldg.
* t| Students, Attention! %j 4
When presenting your Tartan coupon ^
i* at our store, do not fail to give us your 
 name and address.
* Something doing later on. 4
! C. A. HEIMERT S !
|l Where all the Tech Boys go. Jfl
4?. To the Progressive Mens Wear Store ^
# of Oakland ^
3614 Forbes St. Iroquois Block 4.w 4
DRINK
Dtiqviesne
The Coffee that suits 35c lb.
<geo. &. ^tebcnson & Co.
606 Wood St., Downtown 
Highland and Center Aves., E. E.

---------------------------------------------------

6THE TARTAN
City Office; East End Office;631 Penn Avenue S. Highland Ave. and Baum Street
Oswald Werner & Sons Co.
Pittsburghs Oldest and Largest Dyeing and Cleaning Works
New Private Branch Exchange. Call Hiland 1138 
Main Office and Works: Cor. Bryant, St.Clair and Mellon Sts.
HOTEL SCHENLEY
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Under the Management of the Schenley Hotel and Restaurant Company 
Roman H. Heyn, President
ROOM RATES $2.00 PER DAY AND UPWARDS
Practically all the functions of the. Carnegie Institute of Technology are 
held at the Schenley. Our rates have been considerably reduced, and we have 
engaged Mr. Widmer, the chef of the Union Restaurant, to be in charge of our 
kitchen department; Mr. Widmer having been at the Union Restaurant for 10 
years, is perfectly acquainted with the wants and demands of our local support
ers, and we are therefore in the best position to take care of YOUR trade at 
reasonable rates. phone 285 schenley
SATISFACTORY SERVICE SURE
MURDOCH, KERR * CO.
Printers of Programs, Booklets, Catalogs
Strawberry and Cherry Ways
THIRD YEAR NIGHT SCIENCE 
MEETING
The first meeting of the Toilers in the 
Night, generally known as the Third 
Year Night Science men was 'held on 
October 25, 1912, at 10:30 P. M. The 
purpose of the meeting was twofold. Or
ganization for the coming year and for 
securing the aid of the registered voters 
of the class to support the bond issue in 
the coming election, providing for im
provements benefiting the schoo .
The meeting was marked by a record 
attendance and an Activities Committee 
to Help Promote Progress was elected. 
For the first time the usual motion to 
adjourn did not interrupt the business of 
the evening and it was only when the 
signal  Lights Out was visible that the 
motion to adjourn was made.
The results of the election of class officers 
are:
President....................................F. B. Lowe
Vice President..................C. D. R. Ingalls
Secretary & Treasurer.............F. A. Myer
Tartan Representative...........A. L. Lambie
Athletic Representative.....R. W. Schuette
MECHANICALS VICTORIOUS
The Senior Electricals were defeated by 
the strong Mechanical eleven on Wednes
day afternoon, October 30, by the score 
of 7 to 0.
A large crowd was present and between 
halves paraded on the field. Moorehead, 
Baume, Porster and Gearhart were the 
stars on the Electrical team while Wehr, 
Siegle Connell, Parry and Rose upheld 
the honor of the Mechanicals. The contract provided that the losing team give
the winner a banquet and incase of a tie
the banquet to be set up by the officials.
The line up:
MechanicalsElectricals
McFarlin......... L. E...................Griswold
Ferguson.........L. T...............Middleman
Kukovitch........L. G..............Mortenson
Rose (Capt.)...... C............. .... ......Brand
Hatton...........R. G..............Stuckeman
Powell............R. T.....................Welker
Siegle............R. E............Freeland
C. Crawford .. .- Q......................Gearhart
Wehr................R. H.. Moorehead (Capt.)
Connell.............L. H.....................Poister
Parry.................F................*.......Eaume
T ouehdown-C. Crawford.Goal from
touchdown Siegle. Time of quarters 8 
minutes. Referee Blair, Umpire F. Craw
ford, Head Linesman Kline, Timekeep
ers Cameron and Peterson, Water-boy 
Heinie Scweitzer.
INTERCOLLEGIATE NEWS
Harvard is beginning now the con
struction of three freshman dormitories 
to accommodate four hundred and seventy 
five studsnts. They are expected to be 
comoUted in 1914 and residence in them 
will be compulsory for freshmen living 
from home.
The dramatic Club of James Milliken 
University presented No Men Wanted.
At Hiram they are running a popularity 
contest to boost the college song book.
Oberlin held the second annual ElvriaOberlin relay last week. Nine men ran 
one mile each. The time for the nine
miles was 48 minutes 1 1-5 seconds, set
ting a new record.
The college employment bureau at 
Oberlin has done much to secure positions 
for graduates. A large number have 
taken up the teaching profession. Mem
bers of the faculty and department heads 
have also given assistance.
The Iowa University Rifle Club will 
hold its first meeting soon. Iowa holds 
the Western championship in gallery 
shooting.
An underclass football league has been 
organized at Purdue. All of the four 
classes have teams in the field.Ex.
President Hadley of Yale addressed 
the Yale Alumni Club in Chicago over 
long distance. Each alumnus had a 
telephone at his plate.Ex.
It is the belief of Walter Camp, the 
Dean of Football in America, that the 
forward pass and the running game are 
good and make possible a more varied 
attack.Ex.
A student advisorship has been es
tablished at the Universities of Stan
ford and California, by which every fresh
man will have a senior advisor.Ex. 
Pamona Student Life.
The average Princeton student spends 
about $919 annually. The maximum ex
penditure is $2,500 and the minimum 
$200.Ex. Pamona Student Life.
J. C. Peterson former Iowa champion 
heavy weight wrestler, is this year a mem
ber of the Michigan University eleven.-Ex.
The Un'versity of Washington is mak
ing plans for a triangular debate between 
the coeds on Washington, Oregon and 
California Universities.Ex.
Four women are taking engineering at 
Michigan this year and it is reported that 
they are being very successful in their 
work.Minnesota Daily.
Princeton will award its nine cheer 
leaders with white sweaters and passes 
to all contests on University field.
Columbia University has already started 
track work. The inter-class and sophomore-freshman meets have been held 
this week.
David Starr Jordan, President of Leland Stanford University, has  resigned 
his position as head of Leland Stanford 
to study peace arbitration. His resigna
tion will take effect in 1915.
Brown University alumni thus far this 
year have raised $100,000 towards the 
$1,000,030 endowment which the Uni
versity hopes to secure for providing increasad salaries to its teachers.
T vventy-five per cent of the students of 
Texa; A. and M. work their way through 
college. The col ege has provided a de
partment for this work and the State 
Legislature makes an annual appropria
tion of $8,000 for this work.
Princeton has over 400 men in their 
Freshman Class this year.
According to statistics recently com
piled, the average cost of a four years 
academic education at Yale, twenty years 
ago, was $4,310; while the average to-day 
has increased, owing to^the high cost of 
living, to $4,472
A skilled thief ransacked the lockers 
of the football men at Dartmouth re
cently. The amount lost w7as $200.00 
in money and watches.
It is reported that fifty-four men are out 
for cross-country running at Purdue.
John Paul Jones, the world-famous 
runner, has been unanimously elected 
president of the Senior class at Cornell.
OH, YES!
MayDo you medics practice vivi
section?
HaroldOh, yes! Tom and I eplit 
the kitty last night.Wisconsin Sphinx.
The old system of using a heated 
iron and dirty cloth presses the grime 
and dirt into your garments. Our 
sanitary machine steams it all out, and 
removes permanently the dirt, pers
piration, odor and grime. See Shu
man the Dry Cleaner, 3911 Forbes 
street.
<ISome hats have more style 
than quality-some the reverse. 
The best combination of both 
style and quality you will 
find at
AUFHAMMER & EVANS
6100 Penn Ave.
Open Evenings Monday and Saturday
YOURE NEXT
Tech Sanitary Barber Shop
Harry F. Van Curea, Prop.
Cor. Craig and Forbes Street 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN7
True Values B Si. 0 True Values
mens ulsters
The new Winter styles are in.Weather for them will soon b2 along.Come in and pick yours while the pickings good.English Ulsters of rough shaggy materials, $20.00 to $50.00. Particularly good Ulsterssmart and wearworthy, $25.00.
Fine assortment Mens % bngth Overcoat ;, $15.00 to $55.00.Belted back Guard Ove:coats% length with inverted pleata swell coat for sma't dressers, $22.50 to $40 00.
Boggs & Buhl,Pittsburgh, Penn'a.
A NATIONAL INSTITUTIONBrowning, King & Co.
CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS AND HATS FOR MEN, BOYS AND CHILDREN 
439=441 WOOD STREET
+~---------------------------------------------
I BUREAU OF RECOMMEN- j 
DATIONS.
+ -----------------------------4*
Formerly Bureau of Student Aid.
FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT
ChemistRoutine analysis on brass al
loys. This city. $50 to $60 per rnonth.
Designe on steam heating apparatus. 
$125 per month.
Several good openings in clerical work. 
$40 to $60 per month.
Typewriter Salesmen. 2 men wanted. 
Salary bas's.
MachinistCapable of taking charge 
of finishing room of forging concern out of 
city.
Cost and Stock Accountant with con
cern out of city.
PART TIME EMPLOYMENT
Experienced Meat Cutters. Saturday 
work. Good wages.
SolicitingVarious lines. Salary and 
commission basis.
MIDDLE CLASSMEN HOLD 
MEETING
The Middle Classmen of the School of 
Applied Industries held an important 
meeting in room 104.
Mr. Hamilton gave the Middle Class
men some important advice which pleased 
the boys very much. Mr. Sankey of the 
Building Construction Department was 
elected Thistle Representative. All Mid
dle Classmen came out for the Halloween 
parade and showed that they have the 
Carnegie Spirit. Beware Freshmen. Wear 
your Green Caps.
A LARGE PARTY.
A New York public man, large in 
body as well as in brain, during the 
session of the legislature last winter 
had .to meet a committee in central 
New York, but found on starting that 
he had ogly one minute in Utica to 
change from one railway station to 
another, one hundred yards away.
Fearing that his weight would pre
vent his getting to the second station 
on time, he telegraphed to the rail
way officials:
Please hold No. 6 five minutes for 
large party on Southwestern Limit
ed.
The conductor and train hands 
were all standing ready to assist the 
large party on board, when the one 
solitary individual came smilingly up 
the platform.
Where is the rest of your party? 
said the conductor, looking expect
antly down the platform.
I am all here, captaintwo hun
dred and forty pounds without m^ 
overcoat. Weighed last night.
SCIENCE ELECTION
The election of a second assistant track 
manager from the School of Applied 
Science, held last Wednesday, resulted 
in the election of C. L. Wilmot, 15. The 
votes cast were as follows: Wilmot 111,
Lovejoy 52, Daugherty 30, Hautman 13, 
Orr 13, Chirichigno 9.
OVER THE .GATE.
Attorney General Moody was once 
riding on the platform of a Boston 
street car, standing next to the gate 
that protected passengers from cars 
coming on the other track. A Bos
ton lady came toward the gate, which 
was hidden from her by the men 
standing before it.
Other side, lady, said the con
ductor. The lady took another step 
towarcL the gate.
You must get off the other side, 
said the conductor.
I wish to get off on this side, 
came the answer, in tones that con
gealed that official. Before he could 
explain or expostulate, Mr. Moody 
came to her assistance.
Stand to one side, gentlemen, he 
remarked quietly. The lady wishes 
to climb over the gate.
-------------o--------------
TO AVOID A CHESTNUT DIET.
Mrs. PancakeI dont see, Mr. 
Jokem, why you shouldnt pay up 
promptly. Surely, it cant take long 
to write half a dozen paragraphs a 
day!
Mr. JokemAh! Mrs. Pancake, 
just suppose you had to give each 
one of your boarders something every 
day that none of them had ever eat
en before!
---------------o---------------
WITH THE COLLEGE WITS
OH, DARN!
Mrs. JarmuchThered be fewer
family quarrels if more men were like Mr. 
Jones.
Mr. JarmuchHows that?
Mrs. JarmuchHes dead Michi
gan Gargoyle.
APPROPRIATE
First Artist What shall I call this 
picture? It represents a devil chasing 
a poor, lost soul.
Second ArtistHow does Just one 
damned thing after another strike you? 
Williams Purple Cow.
GENTLE KNOCK
TodyJennie tells me young Woldy 
proposed to her last n'ght.
ViolaI dont think I know him. Is 
he well off?
TodyHe certainly is. She refused 
him.Tit-Bits.
HIS INTENDED
AWho was the girl Binks was with 
the other evening?
BWhy, that was his intended!
A Well, all I can say s that he hasnt 
the best of intentions.California P lican.
Convenient
Already out this fine morning, madam? 
Yes; my maid takes such a long time 
doing my hair Im just taking a w7alk until 
she has finished.Pele Mele.
Slightly Mixed
She meant well, but she got things just 
a little mixed. She said:
That poultices the most unvaluable 
remedy I know to draw the infirmation out. 
Joel et somethin that didnt agree with him 
and got home-made poison. The doctor 
says his temperature is moral. Weve spnet 
a good deal on doctors, and Ill have to be 
comical for some time.Western Advocate.
Bredren, said Parson Black, earnestly, 
dere am some folks in which de still, small 
voice of conscience keeps a-gettin stiller an 
smaller, until at las itd had ter lara de 
deef an dumb langwinge if it wants ter at
tract deir attention!Selected.
GOOD
CLOTHES
CHEAPER
54 Smithfield Street 
409 Fifth Avenue
Capital and Surplus $7,800,000
R. S. DAVIS & CO.
Booksellers 
416 Wood St., and Diamond
Teclinicol Kook
Johnny: Papa, would you be glad if
I saved a dollar for you?
Papa: Certainly, my son.
Johnny: Well, I saved it for you all Clothiers, Tailors,
right. You said if I brought a first-class Hatters, Furnishers
report from my teacher this week you
would give me a dollar; but I didnt.
Selected.504-506 Federal St., N. S.
His Description
When I arose to speak, related a martyred statesman, some one hurled a base 
cowardly egg at me and it struck me in 
the chest.
And what kind of an egg might that 
be? asked a fresh young man.
A base, cowardly egg, explained the 
statesman, is one that hits you and then 
runs.Everybodys Magazine.
She Knew
THE STANDARD OF EXCELLENCE
Mac DONALDS
Candies and Ice Cream Sodas, Dainty-Lunch. Tables for Ice Cream. Fancy Boxes, Baskets, Flavors Etc.
208 Sixth Street, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Ice Cream and Cakes
Sold to Tech Students at special rates See us about the eatins for your doins
THE HALLER BAKERY
3618 Forbes Ave., Iroquois Block
A trained nurse tells this story of a Mrs. 
Malaprop of Brooklyn: She was calling
on a very sick case of mine, and like many 
women, she was unwilling to let any one be 
sicker than she had been. When the patient 
had described her symptoms and her suffer
ings, she retorted: I know how you feel. 
Once I was four days in a state of complete 
kimona. New York Sun.
Freds
Where all the Tech boys eat
Atwood and Forbss
Fred S. Suddaby
Mellon National Bank

---------------------------------------------------

8THE TARTAN
Theaters Week of Nov. 11. I
ALVIN-The Whirl of Society a big 
spectacular musical and specialty enter
tainment will be the attraction at the 
the Alvin next week. Said to be very 
amusing and beautiful.
NIXONDavid Warfield will return to 
this theatre in his spiritualistic play, The 
Return of Peter Grimm. Fine drama 
for thoughtful people.
DUQUESNEPretty Peggy, a play 
in which Miss Grace George starred some 
years ago, will be revived by the Stock 
Company. Entertaining.
LYCEUMLifes Shop Windows, a
dramatization of Victoria Cross, novel of 
the same name will be seen at the Lyceum. 
Novel was interesting.
GRANDAU baseball fans will be glad 
to welcome Mike Donlin, who will head 
the vaudeville bill at the Grand.
WIT AND WISDOM OF CHILDREN
From Chicago Daily News
DRESSING A CHICKEN
Little Gerald, who was visiting in the 
country, saw the cook picking a chicken, 
and asked,
^Grandma, do you take the clothes off 
the chickens every night?
A GRAMMATICAL POINT
Carrie and Madge, aged 4 and 5, were 
making mud pies. Me am going to 
make a cherry pie, faid Carrie.
Dont say me am for I are, re'oined Madge, with an authoratative air.
AT THE BLACKSMITHS
Little ElmerMamma, I saw a man 
town at the bla?ksmiths shop making a 
horse.
Mamma.You must be mistaken, El
mer.
Little ElmerNo, I m not, mamma. 
He had the horse nearly finished when I 
came by. He was just nailing on the feet.
TAKING NO CHANCES
He looked both woebegone and faint, 
Was feeling rather sad,
Weak memory was his complaint;
He said his case was bad.
Weak, eh? quoth doctor, with a snort, 
And gave the man a glance.
.My fee in cases of that sort 
I ask for in advance.
Louisville Courier-Journal.
Anxious to Exchange.
Next Sunday, however, the superin
tendent announced that any child not 
pleased with his gift could have it ex
changed. Jimmie marched boldly to 
the front with his.
What have you there, Jimmie? 
Browning.
And what do you want in ex
change?
Blacking!Harpers Weekly.
Rhetoric and Anatomy.
Said an English clergyman, Patriot
ism is the backbone of the British 
empire; and what we have to do is to 
train that backbone and bring it to 
the front.Christian Intelligencer.
Remembered His Manners.
It is well for a youth to remember 
his manners when addressing his eld
ers, although it may be expensive 
sometimes, as in this case:
The Harvard students family had 
crossed the ocean and left him to fin
ish his senior year, with the promise 
that, if he got his degree, he might 
come along.
The cipher to announce this triumph 
was fixed as the simple word Yes; 
but when a cable reached the head of 
the family in Paris containing only 
that monosyllable, the father had to
tally forgotten the conversation and 
cabled back, Yes, what? In due 
time came the final reply, Yes, sir.
He Knew What He Meant
Where is the committee going?
To St. Louis. The members are going 
there to look the ground over and decide 
whether St. Louis is the best place to hold 
the airship tournament.
Look the ground over? You mean look 
the sky over.
No, I dont! I mean look the ground 
overfor soft spots where the aeronauts 
can drop.Cleveland Plain Dealer.
Friendly Messages
A man went into a hotel and left his um
brella in the stand with a card bearing this 
inscription attached to it: This umbrella
belongs to a man who can deal a blow of 
two hundred a fifty pounds weight. He 
will be back in ten minutes.
On returning to seek his property he 
found in its place a card thus inscribed: 
This card was left by a man who can run 
twelve miles an hour. He will not return..
P. Ludebuehl & Son
Penn and Frankstown, E. E.
GEE=WHIZ,==at $4.00
one of our 40 NEW FALL STYLES in 
Mens Boots. This is strictly a young 
mans boot, with lots of style, and good 
fitting qualities.
^[Built for us by a famous Brockton Man
ufacturer.
Step in Our Mens Department
Downright Rudeness BUTTER, EGGS,
--------- COFFEE, TEAS,
Robert was going on a journey, and while POULTRY, ETC.
waiting at the station stood looking at a ALL AT RIGHT PRICES
switch-engine passing back and forth. Sud- Oakland Butter Market
denly the engine let off steam, and^Robert 3714 FORBES STREETPhone 710 Schenley. We Delivercame down from the seat with a clatter. 
O aunty! he cried, that engine fright
ened me. It blew its nose right in my face.
His Job
A farm-hand had worked in the field 
from dawn till darkness, doing the chores 
by lantern-light. Im going to quit, he 
said to the farmer at the end of the month. 
You promised me a steady job.
Well, havent you got one? was the 
astonished reply. *
No, said the man, there are three or 
four hours every night that I dont have 
anything to do, and fool my time away 
sleeping.Success Magazine.
. C. .
of
Bellefield Church
Will hold a College Social 
November 15th. You're invited.
Wunderlich Co.
Hatters and Mens Furnishers
3723 rorbes St. Cor. Oakland Ave. 
Nearest Tech
Freshy: Professor, is it ever possible to 
take the greater from the less?
Professor: There is a pretty close ap
proach to it when the conceit is taken out 
of a freshman.Selected.
I washed Willies pants tudder day, 
and dey shrunk so dat de po chile kin 
hadly walk in um. Woner how I gwan 
fix um. Try washin de chile. Maybe 
he shrink, too.Exchange
Value of the Telegraph
A young man lived at some distance from 
his bride-elect. On the eventful day he set 
off for the station in good time, but, being 
delayed, missed the train. Then he be
thought him of the telegraph. Dont 
marry till I comeWilliam, was the mes
sage he sent.Philadelphia Inquirer.
Effect on Food
The Historians Size.His Extent of Experience.
Jacob Riis has a story of a little lad 
who shines shoes for a living. This 
boy goes to a misson Sunday school 
and was keenly disappointed when, at 
Christmas time, his gift from the tree 
turned out to be a copy of Brown
ings poems.
Macualay wras destitute of bodily ac
complishments. He could neither swim 
nor ride nor drive nor skate nor shoot. 
But he viewed his deficiencies with .ndifference touched with humor.
When in attendance at Windsor as 
a cabinet minister, the historian was 
informed that a horse was at his di  
posal.
If her majesty wishes to see me 
ride, said he, she must order out an 
elephant.
SAILOR
Tailor
Peoples Bank Building
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Eat
Z A T E K
Get them at the Beanery.
Come to us to be suitedBell Phone Schenlq^y 2326 =J
A Garnett man, in his wifes absence, ate 
a lot of canary seed, mistaking it for break
fast food, and ever since he has been sleep
ing with his head under his arm.Selected.
Now, Johnny, said the teacher, aftei she had explained the meaning of 
the word, I wish you would write a 
sentence containing defeat.
After a struggle which lasted for 
about twenty minutes, Johnny an
nounced that he was ready to be 
heard.
"Please read your composition, the 
teacher directed.
When you git shoes dats too tite, 
Johnny read, its hard on de feet.
Youre Passing up a Good Thing!!!
It isnt often this can be said of Sons of CarnegieWe saw that Halloween Peerade Can it be you have too much coin of the realm?See Pacyna About Those Togs!!!
$2 O vi p-----University Tailoring Co. 
3711 5th Ave.*
Billiard Tables,Office Desks,Butcher Outfits,Store Fixtures
S. DELPS SONS
2219 5th AvenueCor. 4th & Liberty
