=> t* L /,
Football 
Tech vs Pitt 
Forbes Field, Saturday
VOL. XIV. No. 8.(larimi
Bohemia Unlimited 
Schenley Theatre 
November 21-22, 1919
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIANOVEMBER 19, 1919
Three Original One-Ad Plays 
Given For Fir^t Time La& Week
Widely Varied Bill Well Received.
Unknown Again Attends.
Last Tuesday the Little Theatre 
treated its audience to an extremely 
varied bill of short plays. The pro
gram began with Marys Lamb, Mr. 
Osbornes sero-farce, set in a Broad
way cabaret.
This playlet was reviewed at the 
time of. its first performance, and all 
that need be said is that it ran more 
smoothly each time it was played. Mr. 
Dickenson showed more sincerity in 
the later productions.
The bill ended with a miracle play 
of an eighteenth century Venetian 
convent. The filler of this sandwich 
of plays was a delightful rural com
edy. Both of these latter plays were 
produced by their authors for the 
first time.
Blackberrying, as Howard F. 
Smith calls his New England episode, 
1 is built about the same community 
which we remember in The Helmet, 
produced here last spring.
His fun is human, it never ridicules. 
The play is chiefly one of character. 
The lines are clever but not artificial 
we note especially the speach show. ing the farmers dislike for the new 
summer time.
Mrs. Grangers daughter, Phila, has 
married the son of the house when 
the neighborhood picks blackberries 
at five cents a pound. Mrs. Whit
more, the boys mother, refuses to 
accept Phila, threatening to have the 
marriage annulled: for the ceremony 
took place in the pasture where Phila 
was milking, unwitnessed except by 
the cow. Who can prove that the 
Justice, of the Peace was not drunk? 
But grandma, Mrs. Waste, was watch
ing the affair from behind the bushes, 
and saw it from beginning to end. Un
fortunately for the bride, however, her 
mother has taken three of Mrs. 
Wastes baskets of berries, and the 
old lady refuses to tell what she saw. 
Only when they have been returned 
and carefully placed with her pile does 
.she prove the validity of the marriage 
; and they live happily ever after.
The only male note in the play is 
a voice off stage. Miss Crowe as 
j )orcas and Miss Floyd as Mrs. Waste 
deserve particular mention tho we 
commend the entire cast, including 
Miss Eetty Smith, Miss Georgette
Schultz, and Miss Sarah Morrison.
Mr. Stevens new play, The Nurs
ery Maid of Heaven is the dramatiza
tion of a story by Vernon Lee. Played 
as it was, with simple and dignified 
setting, organ accompaniments added 
to the quiet charm of Miss Becks 
voice, one realized not only the at
mosphere of the church, but its full 
poetry and dramatic power.
The author is carefully subtle 
there is nothing to offend any faith 
he satirizes what he commends. The 
story revolves about the lame sister 
Benvenuta, who sells her soul to the 
devil for a coat for the little Bambino 
who is kept in the Sacristy closet. He 
is cold, she thinks, with only a band 
of stiff purple stuff about him. The 
devil who comes to bargain with Ben
venuta we recognize as the puppet 
which has been brought to the con
vent by the Puppet man for f the 
Shrove Tuesday playand at the last 
when Sister Grimana rushes in to tell 
of the light and music issuing from 
the cell of the little sister, she carries 
a burned and torn devil puppet, which 
she found outside the door. Then Benvnuta passes across the gallery, hold
ing the Christ child in his scarlet dress 
with a great light about her. Pier 
lameness is gone. The novice Ata
lanta follows her, and comes back 
weeping. Is the sister Benvenuta 
dead?
The tale is beautifully conceived 
and written with a telling simplicity. 
It was easy, going out from the 
Theatre Tuesday night, to realize 
that the greatest art is the simplest.
Miss Becks work was splendid. 
Miss Rubinstein managed the Mother 
abbess with spirit and authority. Miss 
Hazel, as the sister Sacustan was 
amusing, not because we could inter
pret her lines but becuse she used 
a comedy tone. Why did Miss MeCurley cackle baby talk? The novice 
Atalanta was convincing and played 
with charm. The interest she aroused 
at first is rather a bad lead. Couldi 
it be softened by less intensity in Miss' 
McCampbells voice? We would like, 
to see Mr, Paquin in a role that would 
allow of his being sincere. We must 
also add that Mr. Dean makes a sat
is factory abbe, and Mr. Church an 
admirable devil.
GOT YOURS?
PITT-TECH TICKETS
On sale at Student 
Activities Office, 
THIRD FLOOR 
Central Building
Wednesday12:30 -2:00
Thursday -11:30 -1:15
Friday -11:30 -1:25
Saturday -9:00 -12:00
BRING YOUR STUDENT 
TICKETS
PEP FOR PITT GAIE 
A SCIENCE ASSEMBLY
The Science Assembly last Wed
nesday was a pep meeting in prepara
tion for th.: Pitt game. At first the 
first verse; of the Alma Mater was 
sung a number of times till everyone 
know it will.  Then Cheer Leader 
Yergcy taught the new Skibo yell. 
Coach Steffen gave a talk on the pros
pects of the game and told the assem
bly that Tech would have to do some 
strenuous hustling to capture the 
cheering honors this year because Pitt 
had learned to cheer. If every one 
comes to the cheering meetings and 
gets into the spirit of the event, there 
is no doubt that Carnegie will come 
out on top this year. Coach Steffen 
told how cheering helps the team. 
Captain Marshall also told of the ef
fect of good cheering on the players, 
of how it made them put their great
est energy into the battle. A num
ber of others gave talks to instill spirit 
into the assembly.
Following these talks Safety First 
led a number of cheers, in which 
every one joined with a will. The re
sult showed that if 100 per cent of 
the students come to the game with 
100 per cent spirit the Pitt students 
wont be able to hear themselves 
cheer.
FINAL
MADE FOR GUILD DANCE
All preparations are being made for 
the Guild Dance next Friday evening 
at the Union. Tickets have been sold 
to nearly every one in school, so a 
good crowd is assured. The various 
committees have been working hand 
this last week and they say that every
thing is being done to make the dance 
one of the biggest of the year. This 
is about the only dance of the year 
in which the entire four classes par
ticipate, other dances given being us
ually class affairs. Miss Mary Louise 
McCaughey is president of the Guild 
this year. Plans for the annual 
Christmas bazaar are already being 
made. Everyone that was in school 
last year remembers the bazaar, given 
just before the Christmas 'holidays, 
and what a success it was. This years 
will be bigger and better than any be
fore.
C. M. E. S. HEARS FINE 
TALK ON WATER SUPPLY
Most of us knew that the A. E. F. 
needed shells, food and guns, but very 
few of us ever considered the difficul
ties connected with furnishing water 
to two million men until last Thursday 
night, when Mr. Maurice R. Scharff, 
formerly a captain in the Division of 
Construction and Forestry, A. E. F., 
and now chief assistant to the engin
eer, The Morris-Knowles Company, 
talked to the Carnegie Mechanical En
gineering Society.
In spite of an unexpected attack 
launched by the Machine Design De
partment, which kept most of the Jun
iors at work on notebooks, a fair 
crowd of upper-classmen turned out. 
The Sophs made a very disappointing 
showing, but all things considered, it 
was a satisfactory attendence.
Mr. Scharff covered briefly the or
ganization behind the .water supply 
and drew on a large fund of stories 
illustrating the various difficulties en
countered in getting water to the men.
He covered the work of the Division 
in Supplying Water, not only along 
the Front, but in different camps 
throughout France.
President Allsworth appointed the 
following committees, and the chair
men are urged to see him at once.
Committee on Club Room: 
Bloom, chairman,
May,
Sobeck.
Committee on Publicity:
Blenko, chairman,
Newman,
Hewitt.
-----------D-----------
WATCH THE M. M. JUNIORS 
The Juniors have a new plan. They 
confess it is still only a plan, but if 
you know anything about their class 
you know that what is a plan with 
them one day is a reality the next. 
This present plan is somewhat of a 
mystery, too, so it was rather diffi
cult to get any information about it. 
However, this much was allowed pub
lication: The Juniors have something 
you like, something you want, and 
something you can get from them. 
They are not going to ask you to buy 
any tickets or tagsno this is origin
al. And, by the way, this is not to be 
confined to the M. M. Division. You 
will see them at Industries, Science, 
Design, Central and M. M., so watch 
for the sign of M. M. D. 21.
E
READY TO RAISE CURTAIN
Everything is in readiness for the 
big symphony orchestra to play and 
the curtain to rise on Bohemia Un
limited at the Schenley Theatre, Fri
day and Saturday nights of this week. 
After many weeks devoted almost en
tirely to the extravaganza, A. L. Buc
hanan and his assistants, Carl Reid, 
James Church, Miss Smith and Miss 
Mary Richards, are well satisfied with 
the way everything has turned out up 
to date, and say that the production 
will literally carry the audience off 
its feet.
From the moment the easy move
ment of the production starts, with 
the overture, until the last number, 
there are a thousand and one things 
to hold the audiences attention. The 
only fear is that the human eye and 
ear will not be able to pick up all 
of the many details.
A few of the high spots that are 
sure to make a hit on Friday and 
Saturday, nights arc the Eskimo song 
that comes right off the bat in the 
first scene; Chang Fu in the gor
geous Chinese* scene stands a good 
chance of replacing the famous 
Chong for popularity as a song hit, 
and the Nile song in the third scene 
overflows with that peculiar melody 
characteristic of music in the land of 
Cleopatra. La Vie Venicicnne 
comes in the big closing scene, under 
the Grand Canal in Venice, and un
doubtedly is the biggest hit of the en
tire production.
To describe the settings would be 
impossible. To say the least, they 
are gigantic, gorgeous or elaborate 
according to the part of the world 
in which they are laid. Equally as 
impossible would be the task of de
scribing the pony and ballet choruses.
Specialty numbers have prominent 
places thruout the two acts, the Ventian Jazz Band in the closing scene 
probably being the biggest hit of 
them all.
The eight principles in the cast 
were picked from the students of 
the School of Drama. It would not 
do to outline the parts of each one, 
but it. will suffice to simply name the 
parts and let the what they do to 
be found out on Friday and Saturday. 
The parts and the students playing in 
them are as follows:
Uncle Westerveldt, B. I. Dickinson; 
Aunt Westerveldt, Hazel Beck; The 
Niece, Mary Dutney; The Juvenile, 
Jack Willard; Maclntyre-Heath, Carl 
B. Reid; a Swiss guide (who speaks 
Scotch), D. S. Gaitner; an aeroplane 
insurance salesman, A. L. Buchanan; 
Hans N. Muller also does several 
comedy numbers.
There are still a few seats left for 
both performances, but few is the 
word. By the night of the first per
formance, the man in charge of the 
ticket sales anticipates selling stand
ing room only.
MINERS AND METS HELD
The Mining and Metallurgical Soci
ety of C. I. T., a unit of the American 
Institute of Mining and Metallurgical 
Engineers, held its first meeting of 
the year in the departments rooms 
of Science School last Thursday eve
ning at 8 p. m. To the largest gath
ering in the history of tho society, 
Mr. Pafenbach, C. I. T. 10, gave a 
very interesting talk.
Mr. Pafenbach, who is metallurgist 
for Jones and Laughlin Stool Co., 
chose as his subject, Steel Castings. 
He discussed in detail their produc
tion, their defects, the difficulty of 
cleisrV,*;, shrinkage, and heat treat
ment.
Tho meeting was then declared in
formal. Questions were discussed on 
electric steel castings, problems of 
labor, and cooling effects on steol.
Before the meeting adjourned to re
freshments and song, Dr. Charles 
Fettko made a speech on tho desira
bility of the members joining tho Jun
ior Division of the American Institute 
of Mining and Metallurgical Engin
eers. Eleven members have now made 
applications following Dr. Fottkos 
proposal.
The meeting then adjourned to re
freshments and general discussion. 
The noxt regular mooting is scheduled 
for the first Thursday after Thanks
giving.
MUSICAL CLUBS TO HAVE 
___. 20
On Thursday evening at 8:30 the 
Carnegie Musical Clubs will hold their 
annual got-to-gether in the Union. 
All present prospects point this affair 
out to be the most successful smoker 
ever held.
Of course, the most important 
things arc the eats and the smokes. 
The committee assure all the fellows 
that there will be a large enough 
supply of both for all sobe there. 
Besides the above several exceptional
ly good stunts have been worked up 
by members of the clubs and from 
;hese an abundance of specialty ma
terial can be picked for the coming 
concerts.
The Glee Club was unable to hold 
the semi-weekly rehearsal last week 
on account of Director Crawford be
ing on the sick list but this lost re
hearsal was made Fot on Sundays 
work-out.
After rehearsal last Sunday, the in
signia men of last year numbering 
forty-seven received their reward. 
Any men having special ability in giv
ing readings be sure to be on hand 
Thursday evenings to carry on with 
the merriment of the occasion. Be 
on hand.
-----------O-----------Throw away your hammer and buy 
a horn for Saturday.
Plaid Gridders Are Pointed For 
La^l and Larged Game of Season
Team Takes Hard Work-out Every Day.
\ Searchlights Overcome Darkness.
With only one more game to com
plete the 1911) grid schedule Commo
dore Steffen wheeled the good ship 
Varsity up into the offing over tho 
week-end and ordered a complete rest 
for all hands from Burt Munhall 
down. And tho leisure was well re
ceived for tho program has been un
usually rugged this year and has 
proved a severe tax on many of the 
men.
But the vacation was granted for 
more important reasons. Next Sat
urday comes the most important 
game of the year, the Pitt-Tech clas
sic held on Forbes Field and the Plaid 
are being pointed for the fray. Every 
mother's son of them has sworn by all 
the shades of Skibo that tho Panther 
shall be whipped to a fine frazzle.
This is the one outstanding game 
of the season in which the dope is 
most unreliable. The.Tartans are al
ways a surprise even to their most 
optimistic followers and flash more 
brilliant football than they some
times show for the entire season. The 
week-end will also find them in top
CROSS COUNTRY TEAM
siiiwiuiuiiuiiiimiiiininiiiiiiiuiiiuuuiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiuiiiuiiiiigiiiaiiiiiiiflyitiiiiiiiriiiiuaiiiiiiiiiiuHiiiuuiiifliHiiiusiniiiieiiiiniiiiii'iiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiKuiiimiiiMiiiiiiiiiNiiiiiiiiiiii
EVERY MAN AT THE SMOKER 
SATURDAY NIGHT
In the Union 
STUNTS EATS SMOKES
CHEERING
BE THERE! Tags1 50c
The Carnegie Tech Cross Country 
Team journeyed to Johnstown, Pa., 
over the week-end and participated 
in one of the hardest cross country 
runs ever encountered by any Tech 
team. Tho run wa; hold by tho Ama
teur Athletic Union of the United 
States. Tech, Pitt, Pittsburgh A. A., 
Johnstown A. A. and unattached run
ners were entered in tho run. Tho 
showing made by our team was rather 
a surprise and much praiso must bo 
given to all tho contestants from 
Tech. Tho course was a balo mile run 
over hard pavements and hilly coun
try. A 120 per cent grade hill was 
encountered on tho run and this dem
onstrated tho ability of our men for 
they all showed remarkable strength 
on the hilly stretch.
Pitt won tho moot by only two 
points. The final score was Pitt lif 
Tcch 37. Woible of Pitt finished first 
and won tho annual cross country 
champion ship of Alloghony Mountain 
A. A. U. completing tho course in '10 
minutes and 14:45 seconds. Tho fin
ish of Miller, a Tech plebe and IClingsmlth of Pitt was very exciting. Mill
er was leading on the last quarter 
mile with IClingsmith at. his heels. In 
the last few yards the Pitt man nosod 
ahead and crossed the tape a fraction 
f a second before Miller. Captain 
Care finished Hth in splendid form fol
lowed by Greenlaw, Kilson, McDonald 
and Ilillar of Tech. Pitt won tho 
handsome team trophy and several 
metals, while Tech brought home six 
medals, Miller receiving two and Gare, 
Wilson, McDonald and Greenlaw each 
holding one.
Next week our team will be enter
ed in the big P. A. A. to bo held in 
this city. Coach Hazel is looking for
ward to a victory and all the men are 
confident of a good showing. Negotia
tions are under way to have Buckness 
University represented here on 
Thankgiving Day and a good run will 
surely result.
----------------------
AT A. A, E.
On Wednesday evening, November 
12, the first meeting of the A. A. E. 
was held in the Scinence Club Room. 
It was a most successful meeting in 
every way, and the attendance quite 
large, in spite of the fact that the 
mid-quarter exams were still on.
Mr. Brennen, a construction en
gineer of the P. R. R., the first speak
er, gave a short talk on the A. A. E. 
He told of the advantages of the mem
bership to the association and its aims 
for the betterment of the profession. 
He spoke enthusiastically of the work 
it had already done and of the work 
it intended to do.
The second speaker was J. R. Ar
nold C. J. T. 18, who is also an en
thusiastic A. A. E. man. He was 
welcomed heartily by those who knew 
him in school and also by the newer 
men.
The C. I. T. chapter membership 
Was increased by twenty-four at this 
meeting. A. N. Stratman was elected 
temporary treasurer of the chapter.
Refreshments consisting of hot 
chocolate, sandwiches, and smokes 
were served by Mr. Seabright.
----------fj-----------
Weekly Health Hint.
Plebe: Dont forget to be at that
game Saturday.
form physically. With two weeks in
tervening between games the injured 
players will all be able to be back in 
the harness and the squad again in
tact.
Possibly no ono realizes the superPlaid strength more than does the 
hostile mentor Warner, and the team 
that runs down tho grid at the first 
whistle Saturday will be the best 
fighting machine that the Blue and 
Gold can produce.
As a curtain raiser to the main 
event the two plebe outfits of the 
rival institutions threaten to stage a 
scrap which their seniors will do well 
to beat. Both elevens are in fine 
physical shape and are out to draw 
first blood to pave tho way for their 
mates in the major action.
Interest in the contest is greater 
than ever before and ticket sales have 
boon most promising. Tcch student 
attendance is guaranteed 100 per 
cent, and if the game may be. won 
from tho rooters stand then the lau
rels will be tucked away before the 
first signal is called.
PLEBES DEFEATED BY 
ERIE HIGH SCHOOL 13-0
Failure to advance tho pigskin at 
critical moments sent Coach Hazel's 
youngsters chattering down white
wash alloy last Saturday in a hotly 
debated contest with Central High of 
Erie on tho lattors field. Throughout 
the first quarter the prep outfit looked 
like easy bacon for the Plobos who 
gainod at will apparently through tho 
husky Central lino, and were con
stantly threatening thoir goal,
But the remaining stanzas hold a 
different story. The first serious and 
rash attempt at a tally was staged in 
the second round when the oval was 
excursionod from the thirty-yard line 
to within three yards of the final 
chalk mark. Hut four do\vns at this 
point failed to get the backflold into 
motion and Erie booted back to 
safety. A few moments later tho ball 
again passed into hostile hands. Devine then hauled down a forward pass 
from Carney and toured down the 
field for fourty yards dropping back 
of the Tech cross bars. Hamilton 
kiclcod goal.
Tho yearlings final and bout op
portunity for a count came in tho 
finale. Wetzel gleaning a forward 
pass from Gibson tore through tho 
opponents territory for fourty yards 
finally being halted on tho throo-yard 
line. With four downs now in which 
to complete tho run now was tho 
time for action. Hut in lour trys the 
plobo backs were still unable to cut 
loose with any gains and the close of 
the fourth attempt found the ball still 
rooted in the debit side of the mark.
Erie now jazzed tho pigskin back 
to middloflold where Carney tore off 
twenty-five yards, Devine duplicating 
the feat scored tho final touchdown 
for Erie. Hamilton missed goal, The 
line-up:
Erie13. Carnegie0.
Cleary ...................It. E................ Witzell
Novice ...............R. T.......... McCormick
Hamilton..........R. G......................McLean
Lloyd .......................C.......... Lichenstein
Wright...............L. G......................tledgrin
Schoenfield ___L. T..................... Griffin
McMahon.........L. E.......................Fischer
Baker .......................Q................... Gibson
Carney...............R. H........................Emery
Devine ...............L. II............... Anderson
Kraemer..................F.............Brumbaugh
TouchdownDevine 2. Goal from 
touchdownHamilton. Substitutions 
Reseler for I-Iedrargin; Hawkins 
for Fischer; Albertson for Emery;
Sullivan for Devine; Shaner for
Bakei'. RefereeCarney, Erie. Um
pireCline, Pittsburgh. Head lines
manJ. C. Ainsworth, Erie. Time of 
quarters15 minutes.-----------$-----------
INTERFRATERNITY DANCE
TO BE HELD DECEMBER 5
The first Interfraternity Dance of 
the year is to be held on December 5 
at Duquesne Garden. The dances held 
in the past by the Greek Letter men 
have always been a decided success 
and judging from the efforts of the 
present committee this one will far 
surpass any other.
All national fraternity men in 
school not having a chapter hero arc 
invited and can obtain tickets or in
formation regarding the same from 
any member of the committee.
The committee in charge is:
M. W. Pollmcyer, Arts, chairman; 
N. P. Rice, Arts; R. M. Russell, Sci
ence.
13828167

---------------------------------------------------

Tech vsPTM TrtanWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1919
(Haran
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Activities Board.
v Entered in the postoffice of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
This year $1.50
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
5c the copyCanada, .$1.75
Business Manager
Phone Hazel 9422 
Phone Hazel 0425.
EDITORIAL
Managing Editor 
L. IC. Paquin 
Assistant Managing Editors 
F. I. Smith 
C. L. Lake
News Editor 
J. T. Ames 
Associate News Editors 
W. D. Hall 
Athletic Editor
G. It. Goodrich 
Assistant Athletic Editor
Circulation Manager
H. G. Atcliley
School Editors
M. M. C. S.............Margaret J. Griffon
Science....................J. K. W. Macalpine
Industries............................J. It. Rudisill
Arts....................................T. It. Hinckley
Other Assistants 
' II. C. Haldeman 
It. G. Welsh 
L. A. McCardell 
Arthur Lubin 
J. It. Barrow 
Gertrude Baton 
Margaret Stolzonbaugh 
Adele Gumbert 
Olga Kiefer
BUSINESS STAFF
D. A. Sillers 
N. E. Fox 
Wm. Obenour 
M. I. Cohen
TARTAN OFFICE...............................................................................Room 162, Design
Hours1:00 to 4:00 Wednesdays.
12:00 to 1:00 Thursdays.
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the Man
aging Editor for the make up.
All business communications should be sent to the Business Manager. 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported 
at once.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the signature to be withheld if desired.
All news items must be in the student postoffice, Central Building, before 
4:30 P. M. Fridays.
THE FUTURE OF ATHLETICS
Numerous questions affect the outlook for athletics in the future at 
Carnegie, the most vital of which is that of the gymnasium. Needless to 
say, the most of the complaints come from that direction and that the same 
must be given consideration as well as those coming from other directions. 
If the proposed plan for Physical Education goes into effect it is evident that 
the need of a larger and better equipped gymnasium will be more strongly 
emphasized.
In regards to present condition, the complaints are all based upon size 
and not equipment. Since basket ball practice has begun this has been em
phasized more than before. The Cross Country team needs the floor at the 
same time for exercise which is a very essential part of their training. Often 
the football team of late holds indoor practice. How can the three or more 
teams practice at one time on the one small floor in our gym? Now, if there 
are numerous competitors in P. T. trying to score points for insignia, where 
arc they going to do it? Is the need of a larger gym imperative? It is, if 
all the branches of athletics are to be continued successfully, all teams beinggiven the proportion of the time allotcd to each for using the gymnasium, 
but it is told that this cannot be done, hence the complaints.
Have you hoard the Basket Ball manager pleading yet for large at
tendance to the games? He should be complimented on his early start but 
instantly there comes a question to our attention. How can a large attend
ance to the games bo accommodated? It was successfully illustrated last 
year that this could not be done; fjo why try to put a bushel in a peck 
measure?
The prospects for basket ball havo never boon brighter as scon from 
a number of viewpoints. The management; has boon farsoeing in this re
spect and has booked many good teams on the schedule. Princeton will 
play hero on January 2 and will probably bo supported by a largo alumni 
residing in this city. It is safo to say that the crowd will not be accommo
dated comfortably but to play the game on an outside floor would not look 
well for Carnegie.
.Those instances havo all been cited to show how imperative is the need 
of a now gymnasium not to antagonize the administration by saying that 
it is needed at. the spur of the moment. The now building program contains 
a new gymnasium but as wo realize, It takes time, although tin* plan should 
be put Into olVoet at as early a date as possible if Carnegie is to pursue 
athletics successfully in the future. With the present, increase in the student, 
body and the prospects of i banner basket ball team, it should take no other 
Instances to show that the present gymnasium will not accommodate future avullencos.
There seems to be four or more programs which Carnegie can follow 
in the future upon which the students will be called upon to decide soon. 
These are viz., (1) To drop athletics entirely, as is done in other technical 
schools; (2) to offer athletic scholarships or havo paid athletes; (M) to con
tinue our present system; (4) to adopt schedules whereby teams of our own 
class are played entirely and none out of our class. It. is unanimous that 
Carnegie would not wish to adopt the second plan even if ninety-nine per 
cent of the other schools did, but we cannot entirely agree to adopt any of 
the other plants set forth entirely as they stand. With revision, one would 
be acceptable in our opinion.
, It is no disgrace to be poor and the athlete who is in need of funds 
should be helped, is agreed, but not in the way of going out with a check
book and ringing" him in. A bureau of student employment is at the pres
ent time very helpful in securing part time employment for needy students. 
Why not help the athletes by giving them first preference? That would 
not be showing partiality in any way and non-athletic students who are also 
needy and have more time to spare could take employment fitting into the 
schedule of the athlete.
It is a vital moment regarding athlteics in the future and something 
will have to be done soonsomething definite. The problem concerns ad
ministration as well as students and it is hoped that the future plan will be 
decided upon soon.
barred from reinstatement under the former ruling, a special blanket ruling 
hi made which allows all ex-service men to reinstate their insurance before 
December 31, 1019, provided that each applicant is in as good health as at 
date of discharge or at expiration of the grace period, whichever is the later 
date, and so states in his application. Of course it is necessary that he tender 
the two months premiums on the amount of insurance he wishes to reinstate.
Service men who reinstated their insurance by payment of all back pre
miums prior to July 25, 1010, -when the decision requiring payment of only 
two months premiums went into effect, upon written application to the 
Bureau may have any premiums paid in excess of two applied toward the 
payment of future premiums. For example, if after a policy had lapsed for 
six months, a man reinstated and paid six months' premiums instead of two, 
he may secure credit for four months premiums. -
The provisions for reinstatement do not protect a man until he actually 
reinstates. If he waits he may not be in as good health as he was at the 
time of discharge and consequently may not be able to secure reinstatement.
Don't put off reinstatement. Do it now!
 ELECTRICALS A
Last Wednesday night the Night 
Electricals in the Division of Indust
ries held a dinner and entertainment 
at the Seventh Avenue Hotel. Nearly 
eighty members and their guests gath
ered in the Banquet Room and were 
served a delicious menu; Tenderloin 
of beef with mushroom sauce and 
brown potatoes as the principal course 
and the usual other good fixings in 
addition.
Prof. Calderwood, Head of the 
Electrical Department, acted as 
Toastmaster. An address of welcome 
was delivered by B. S. House, chair
man of the Banquet committee. Fol
lowing the dinner Acting Dean Morris 
of the Division of Industries spoke to 
the assembly and in particular to 
the night student themselves, concern
ing his desire for them to stick to their 
courses at any hazard and offering to 
be of assistance to them in any way 
whatsoever. G. T. Miller, assistant 
to the Dean followed with a brief 
talk, after which Prof. J. S. Dodds, 
assistant to the head of the Electrical 
Department and Prof. Tomlinson also 
spoke.
Student Kennan rendered two vocal 
selections, A Son of the Desert Am 
I and ICiss Me Again. A spirited 
boxing match was run off between 
Indian Kid vs. Jim Bardoe and F. R. 
McMhon vs. R. Dugan. A wrestling 
bout was then staged by Downs and 
Antell.
A number of unique souvenirs and 
trick novelties were presented.
The committee which consisted of 
John Houserman, chairman, B. S. 
Ilause, C. V. Mack, J. H. Kennan, N. 
J. McAleney and G. N. Johnson de
serve great credit for the splendid 
manner in which the entire program 
was carried out.
---------------------
CALENDAR OF EVENTS.
November 21.DanceM. M. D. Guild............................................................Union
November 21 and 22Div. of Arts, Musical Extravaganza..Schenley Theatre
November 22.Football Smoker ........................................................................ Union
November 25Carnegie Day..................................................................................Classes
November 27, 28, 20.Thanksgiving Recess ....................................... No Classes
December 5.Interfraternity Dance ........................................ Duquesne Garden
December 20First Day Christmas Recess.
January 5, 1920First Day of Winter Quarter.
January 16, 1920.Quaker Club Dance......................................Duquesne Garden
OFFICIAL NOTICE.
ADDITIONAL RULINGS ON REINSTATEMENT.
A sorios of decisions issued by the Director of the Bureau of War Risk 
Insurance with the approval of the Secretary of tho Treasury provides more 
liberal conditions for reinstatement of lapsed or canceled insurance.
The provisions of Treasury Decision No. 47, allowing eighteen months 
premiums on the amount of insurance to be reinstated, are retained. That 
decision is liberalized, however, by a new provision that men out of the serv
ice are permitted to reinstate by merely paying the two months premiums 
without making a statement as to health at any time within three calendar 
months following the month of discharge.
After the three months following the date of discharge have elapsed, a 
statement from the applicant; to the effect that he is in as good health as at 
the date of discharge or at the expiration of the grace period, whichever is 
the. later date, will be required together with a written application for rein
statement and the tender of two months' premiums on the amount of insur
ance he wishes to reinstate.
,JLn order to give all former service men whose insurance has lapsed or 
been canceled, a fair chance o reinstate their insurance, including men who 
have been out of the service eighteen months or more, and who are therefore
TRUCTION 
CLUBS FIRST SMOKER
The Building Construction Club are 
making elaborate preparations for 
holding their first smoker of the year. 
The committee in charge, composed 
of Bliss, Funk and Young have se
cured accommodations at the Univer
sity Club for next Monday night, No
vember tho 24t,h. As one of the mem
bers expressed it, and believe us, it's 
going to bo some time. An appetiz
ing feed has been arranged and plenty 
of good smokes arc assured. One of 
the most popular male quartets of the 
city has boon secured to head an en
tertaining list of stunts.
Tho Building men expect a full turn 
out and all tho freshmen in that de
partment are urgod to make it a point 
to bo there. A tax of $1.50 is being 
levied.
FIRE CAUSES SLIGHT LOSS 
IN SOUTH DORMITORY
Last Monday noon a fire broke out 
in one of the rooms of the South 
Dormitory. How it started is still a 
mystery, but the fact that it did sev
eral hundred dollars worth of damage 
is evident.
All attempts to extinguish the 
flames with chemicals were unsuccess
ful, as the fumes which arose were 
overpowering, so our old-fashioned 
bucket brigade was established and 
by the time the Fire Department ar
rived there was little for them to do.
The room in which the blaze started 
was that of two Federal Board men, 
who lost considerable personal prop
erty as a result.
MR. GAUER APPOINTED ~ 
ASSISTANT TO DR. BAKER
Coaches Steffen and Hazel plead 
strongly for student support at the 
climax of the football games and 
promises to do all in their power to 
help win'whether a moral or physical 
victory.
The meeting was the second of its 
kind this year and was again a re
markable success. Every one hopes 
that this shall not be the last.
-----------0-----------
SCIENTIFIC INTELLIGENCE 
TESTS
As an outgrowth of the intelligence 
tests conducted in determining the 
mental ability of soldiers inducted 
into the Army, a committee of the 
National Research Council is working 
a plan to make these tests prac
tical for use in schools. It is recog
nized that the hit-or-miss, system of 
putting pupils o fvarying capabilities 
through one mold in the schools may 
provide for some the avenue of de
velopment needed, while to others of 
not less mentality, but whose ability 
lies along a different line, the training 
may wholly fail to attain the desired 
end. Already these experimental 
tests have been applied on 5,000 
children with excellent results. The 
system is being perfected so that it 
will be possible to handle in groups 
those under examination, and when 
this is accomplished the plan will be 
offered to teachers for general use. 
It is the design so to develop the 
system that grade classification and 
individual educational 'treatment may 
be adjusted with desired frequency.
The value of an intelligence test 
that is workable may be readily rec
ognized. If the individual mental 
equipment of a child can be accurately 
surveyed training then may be given 
along the line of the childs natural 
bent. No doubt many a child has 
been dubbed dull when the sole trou
ble was the teachers failure to dis
cover its peculiar ability. If psychol
ogists are able to develop a practical 
plan to reveal the mental possibilities 
of the child while in its early school 
age, not only will much valuable time 
be saved in the years of its training 
for life, but many sad misfits will be 
avoided. It is claimed that marvelous 
results were secured in the tests ap
plied to soldiers. Greater success 
should reward the application of the 
plan to school children, since their 
minds are more pliable than those 
who have reached maturity.
feiticJcJeJecyciJciJeiJciJc/ci/SMSMSSJ3/2/SMSS3SfSfSJSfSiSJ5it33SI3MS/SMciJciJcciJciJciJi!iJe!Jc?Ja
FOR COLLEGE MEN
There is an excelling style atmosphere 
about our clothes which make them instant
ly popular.
They appeal to college men not alone be
cause of their dominating style, but largely 
on account of the high-grade tailoring and 
serviceable fabrics.
Our chain-store system aifords worth-while 
savings. Visit our store nearest you and be 
convinced. Correct fit and satisfaction 
guaranteed.
OUR OWN RETAIL STORES AT
AKRON, Ohio...........................124 S. Main St.
CLEVELAND, Ohio. 503-505 Prospeet Ave.
MILWAUKEE, Wis....................192 Third St.
PITTSBURGH, Pa.................507 Market St. |
PITTSBURGH, Pa.. .209-11 Smithfield St. |
PITTSBURGH, Pa............932 Liberty Ave. |
READING, Pa................................751 Penn St. |
_ SCHENECTADY, N. Y... 302-304 State St. jj
SYRACUSE, N. Y...............138 S. Salina St. \
TERRE HAUTE, Ind.... 410 Wabash Ave. jj
WILKES-BARRE, Pa...........66 S. Main St. |
YOUNGSTOWN O.. 107-109 W. Federal St. ?!
We will open stores at Scranton, Pa., and [I
Trenton, N. J., early in 1920. I
IE
STUDENTS WELCOME
Fred Suddaby s Cafeteria
BUREAU OF MINES BUILDING
11 A. M. to 2 P. M. Every School Day
GREAT EATS AT 
THE SCHENLEY LUNCH FORBES AND CRAIG STREETS
FRED SUDDABY, Proprietor
Mention the TARTAN when buying of these Advertisers.
Mr. William U. Gaver, from the 
Tri-State News, has been appointed 
assistant to Dr. Baker in special pub
licity work. Mr. Gaver prepared at 
Tome School for Princeton while Dr. 
Baker was head of that institution. 
During the war Mr. Gaver saw serv
ice in the aviation.
"BEAT PITT MOTTO OF 
ALL SCHOOLS MASS MEETING
The mass meeting held in the Music 
Hall this morning was a fine demon
stration of what can be done when 
there is a common purpose in view. 
The schools headed by the band, 
marched over Schenley bridge to the 
hall with the same pop which it is 
hoped, will be shown Saturday.
President Botman of the Four 
Schools Council outlined the purpose 
of the meeting after which school 
songs and yells were rehearsed under 
the direction of the cheer leaders and 
showed appreciably the yelling 
strength of the whole body.
THE TURKISH CIGARETTE

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY," NOVEMBER 19," 199THE .TARTANPAGE THREE..
r'5/2/SJ3JSJ3JSSi35^JcSISEi^rcj'/'caii!iisa
! P. LUDEBUEHL UNO SUN I
a [3g PENN AND GOTTTYURS?P g 
AVENUES 2-
I%r3 - (3
SHOE I
better g
p $8.50 to $15.50
1 CUT DOWN YOUR 
3 EXPENSE by buying 
p shoes. You will find them far G= 
jj cheaper to wear than shoes
D which are not so high in quality, ql 
j Our new models for FALL and  
0 WINTER are now in, and they & 
jj are full of snapjust suitable S 
r for the college man. g.
3 . &2 B
If your fountain pen is in need of 
[ repairs, if you need a new, satisfactory 
pen or eversharp pencil, stationery, 
dance programs, favors, special felt 
 goods or Tech recognition pins, call 
at SINGER PEN & GIFT SHOP in 
| Jenkins Arcade.Adv.
BellSchonloy 389
MISS OLEARY
(Formerly with J. E. T. Shuman) 
DRY CLEANINGREPAIRING 
Ladies and Mens Clothes, Carpots
Work Guaranteed nnd Turned Out on Short Notice.
Will call for all pressing and cleaning at Frat Houses.
3933 FORBES STREET (Oakland) 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Oakland Methodist Episcopal 
Church and Community House. 
Forbes and Boquet Streets.
j] Room Directory, Recreation Room, 
Reading Room.
Don't miss the Sunday Open House, 
4:307:30 P. M.
Supper at 6:00  20 cents. 
Snappy Address  6:45-7:15 
! Students Cordially Welcomed.
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
DR. HUGH B. SPEER, Pastor 
Shady and Northumberland Avenues 
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M. 
and 8:00 P. M.
Young Peoples Service, 7:00 P. M. 
Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages. 
A cordial welcome to all.
V BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN
X CHURCHI
,t, BellefieId and Fifth Avenues
X Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D.,
j* Minister.
{ Preaching Services 11 and 8.
X Sunday school at 10.
V Christian Endeavor at 7.V We want the Tech boys to at
tend our services and learn to know us as the congregation of "Friendly People. A hearty welcome awaits you.
YOUNG MAN!
COME TO THE
YOKE FELLOWS 
CLASS
EVERY SUNDAY AT 10:00 A. M.
FIRST BAPTIST CHURCH
BELLFIELD AND BAYARD STS. 
REV. F. T. GALP1N, Teacher. 
OTHER SERVICES
Friendly Class (Young Women)
10:00 A. M.
Morning Services ............11:00 A. M.
B. Y. P. U.............................. 7:00 P. M.
Evening Services............... 7:45 P. M.
COME AND BRING A FRIEND
 ASCENSION EPISCOPAL CHURCH 
Ellsworth Avenue and Neville Street 
DR. WYATT BROWN, Rector 
DR. ROSS R. CALVIN, Assistant. 
Sunday Services, 8:00 A. M., 11:00 
M. and S:00 P. M.
College Mens Bible Class at 10:00, I It'd by Dr. Calvin.
All Students Genuinely Welcome.
Grace Church
(Reformed)
BAYARD and DITH RIDGE STREETS 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister. 
SERVICES:Sunday School9:45 A. M.Morning Worship11 A. M. 
Christian Endeavor7 P. M. 
Popular Evening Services at 7:45. Sermons for Head and Heart. 
Hearty Welcome for All.
ST. PAULS CATHEDRAL Fifth Ave. and Craig St.
Masses: 6:30, 8:00, 9:00, 10:00 andU:00 A. M. on Sundays and Holy 
fays.Vespers on Sundays at 7:30 P. M. Pew 58. Middle Aisle, for Tech Stujdenta.
Fraternity Notes
XI SIGMA UPSILON
Last Saturday evening Xi Sigma 
Upsilon held a banquet at the P. A. A. 
in honor of Alpha Tau Omega Fra
ternity. Thehorror guest'uf-thH eve
ning was Mr. Victor Frey of Phila
delphia, Province" Chief of this dis
trict. Other guests present were Mr. 
R. P. Ostermark and Mr. A.W. McA lister, representatives of the W. & J. 
Chapter of A. T. O., and Messrs. S. 
Conrad, Miller, Clark, Roth and Eardley, members of the Pittsburgh Alum
ni Association- of A. T. O. All- of- the 
active chapter of Xi Sigma Upsilon 
attended and were well supported by 
a large number of the alumni. A well 
selected menu .was served, interesting 
after-dined speeches were made, and 
the banquet was considered to be a 
decided success.
In the afternoon Mr. Frey and the 
Washington and Jefferson representa
tives spent several hours visiting the 
buildings and campus and were well 
impressed with the schools. They 
were unanimous in the opinion that 
Tech is* one of the foremost Technical 
institutions of the country.
Xi Sigma Upsilon has held several 
very enjoyable smokers this year at 
the homes of members of the active 
chapter. They are pleased to an
nounce the pledging of Mr. F. A. Fitz
simmons, Science sophomore, and Mr. 
E. Eugene Dyke, Science freshman.
---------------------
TAU GAMMA PHI
The fraternity held a second infor
mal dance at the house last Friday 
evening. The music, furnished by 
house talent, was certainly a surprise 
to all. The gathering was not as 
large as usual owing to the fact that 
a number of the Design men found 
themselves in the midst of a real 
charette. Nevertheless it proved to 
be. an enjoyable evening for all those 
who were able to attend.
A good number of the alumni have 
expressed their intentions of being in 
Pittsburgh next Saturday to see the 
big game and to get back into the old 
Tech spirit again.
----------------------
ALPHA KAPPA PSI.
Alumni members of Alpha Kappa 
Psi are box-holders for the produc
tion of Bohemia Unlimited this 
week. Active members who are not 
appearing in the cast are assisting the 
management on the nights of the pro
duction.
---------------------
WOODLAWN CLUB
Brother Van Dyke, former instruc
tor in Electrical Engineering at Tech, 
now employed by the Marconi Wire
less Company of America, visited the 
house last week.
A number of the Alumni will be 
here for the Pitt-Tech game, and most 
of them are coming early to attend 
the Friday night performance of Bo
hemia Unlimited.
ASSEMBLY ADDRESSED
BY CAPTAIN STOICA
GOTYURGS YT? RYPEE
lllliillllll!lllillllllllllllllllllllllll!lllllllllll!llll!IIIIIIIIIIIIIIII!lllllll!OIII!llllll!IUIIDIII!H!lllll!lllllg 
LostA small silver mesh-bag 
on Woodlawn Ave. or Forbes 
St. between Woodlawn and 
Morewood, last Wednesday af
ternoon. Finder please return 
to Miss Moore, matron of Mar
garet Morrison.
SAVE TIMEby having your shoes 
repaired while you wait.
NEWMAN-HARRIS
of Pittsburgh
FINE SHOE REPAIRING
Special facilities for repairing 
ladies shoes.
3811 Fifth Ave., Corner Bouquet St.
| TRANSITS AND LEVELS 
ID ALL SUPPLIES FOR THE 
DRAFTING ROOM
Engineers' Equipment, Instru
ments of Precision, Blue Print 
and Brown Print Papers and 
Cloths.
B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
126 SIXTH STREET
The-students of the Division of In
dustries at their regular assembly 
meeting last Wednesday were ad
dressed by Captain Basile Stoica of 
Rumania. The Captain is on a spe
cial Commission to America and was 
in Pittsburgh .this past week attending 
the meetings of the Worlds Christian 
Citizenship Conference as the repre
sentative from Rumania. Another 
item of note is that the Captain was 
a member of the Rumanian delegation 
to the Peace._Conference and was the 
youngest man that took part in its 
deliberations. He knows intimately 
all of the diplomatic leaders among 
them our own Col. House. He was 
the connecting link between the 
American, English, French and Ruanian delegations as he alone could 
speak the several languages. During 
his visit about the institution he was 
attended by Lieutenant Domancesco, 
Secretary of the Rumanian Royal 
Counsulate of Pittsburgh and Chief 
of Passports Office. The Lieutenant 
had been decorated four times for 
bravery in action.
The captains talk was most inter
esting and gave the men a clear under
standing of his countrys position in 
the field of events. He discussed brief
ly the history of the nation from the 
time of its foundation as a Roman 
province to be a breastwork of de
fense against the Eastern hordes down 
to the present time when it is still 
holding back the Turkish onslaught 
and the Reds of the neighboring 
countries. He described some of his 
personal feelings at the front and gave 
some starting figures of the losses 
sustained by that small country. Even 
at the time of the peace conference 
its army was losing men at the rate of 
more, than a thousand a day: At the 
close of his talk all felt that they had 
a clearer conception of his countrys 
position.
BUCKEYE CLUB SMOKER
PROVES GREAT SUCCESS
PRESIDENT ATTENDS 
L
Oil November IS Dr. Hamerschlag 
attended a meeting of. the Educational 
Congress, at Harrisburg. The pur
pose of this Congress is to consider 
existing educational conditions and 
needs, and to devise means of coping 
wltli them.
On the same trip the President at
tended a conference of the Associa
tion of College Presidents of Pennsyl
vania. "He has been president of this 
organization for the past year and 
its last meeting was held at Tech in 
October.
MILITARY DEPARTMENT
RECEIVES NEW GUNS
The Military Department has re
ceived five new guns from the gov
ernment. They are of the type used 
in the last war and consist of four 
field guns, (a British 75, an American 
4.7, a French 75 and an American 75) 
and a 155 m. m. Schneider howitzer. 
These guns were the most effective 
type used and the American 75 is con
sidered by the War Department to 
have been the best field piece in the 
war.
In addition to these, the department 
is expecting a ten-ton tractor. With 
this new equipment at its disposal the 
R. O. T. C. of Tech will be one of 
the best equipped in the country. 
----------------------J IS K. E. V.?
The long announced smoker was 
pulled off on Friday,. November 14. 
The smoker surely was a success. A 
fairly large.crowd attended and every
body was enthusiastic over the fine 
time they were having.
The men first enjoyed a series of 
movies. Sandwiched with these mov
ies wre selections given by Pro. Kovacks orchestra. His orchestra in
cluding, Schumaker, pianist; F. J. 
Heinle, violinist; Robenalt, Kovack 
violinist; E. Taylor, traps; Kendrick, 
clarinetist; McCurdy, flute, and Kim
ball, saxophone, were excellent and 
many couples (??) danced during the 
jazz.
Following the movies, a boxing bout 
between W!. M,.. Cummins and F. L. 
Martin was staged. No decision. Sev
eral professors gave short addresses, 
after which the party fell to drinking. 
Wait! It was only cider thickened 
with sweet doughnuts.
The following professors were in 
attendance: Dr. James, Prof. I-Iower, 
Leeds, Work, Bisbee, Pfouts, Mann
ing, Sproul, Horst, Prine, and Dr. 
Nathanson.
The members of-the committee, who 
are accredited with the success of the 
smoker are:
Chairman G. Altschul, H. II. Hoov
er, P. L. Hoover, F. J. Heinle, L. Seebach, H. E. Haldeman, president.
NIGHT STUDENTS "PRESENT
FRIDAY AFTERNOON BILL
Owing to the enormous amount of 
work on the Musical Extravaganza it 
was at first thought that the regular 
Friday matinee would have to be post
poned but the Drama Department of 
the night school has come to the res
cue and a very interesting program 
will be given at four oclock Friday 
in the little theatre. The program 
will consist of a one-act play and 
some musical numbers furnished by 
the musical department.
The play, Riders to the Sea by 
Synge, is considered the finest trag
edy ever written and will be present
ed with the following cast:
Maurya ......................Miss Sweeney
Bartley.........................Mr. Harrison
Cathleen.........................Miss Carr
Nora.............................Miss Moore
-----------'&----------
ALUMNI NEWS 
About five hundred tickets for the 
Tech-Pitt game have already been 
sold to alumni. The old grads who
have not already obtained tickets and
expect to go to the game will have 
to hustle or there will be none left. 
It is certainly fine the way the alumni 
are coming back to see the game and 
to get a day of the good old Tech 
spirit.
----------------------
Peter Witt, the street railway ex
pert, who started out in life as a molder, was talking with a group of 
friends around a luncheon table re
cently.
When I was young, said Mr. Witt, 
I used to wonder if I would ever 
meet a great man. The great man, as 
my imagination clothed him, was a be
ing of imposing figure in whose pres
ence you actually trembled.
Well, Ive met a lot of mensome 
of whom the world thought were great 
menbut none of them has ever given 
me the feeling of awe that I antici
pated.
So I have come to the conclusion 
that there arc no great men. So-called 
great men are just average men who 
either had a chance or took a chance.
One young man who found the 
mystic letters painted on the back of 
his smock was so delighted that he 
presented the perpetrator with a fivepound box of chocolates. We know, 
we saw the box and ate some of the 
candy.Ed.
--------B-----------VOLLEY GAME POSTPONED 
Owing to accident of the lights go
ing out last Thursday afternoon the 
volley ball game between the Juniors 
and Sophomores of Margaret Mor
rison was postponed until Monday af
ternoon. A great many were disap
pointed as the best turnout to any 
athletic event at M. M. was in the 
gym. The teams waited until 5:15 
but when the lights had not been 
turned on, the game was postponed. 
A probability is a game between the 
winner of the Junior-Soph match and 
the Senior team. The Seniors are 
practicing now and from all reports 
have a pretty good team. If the 
Sophs win from the Juniors they will 
have a chance to retrieve their de
feat in basketball last year at the 
hands of the Juniors, now the Seniors. 
Marie Stroup is captain of the Sopho
more volley ball team and Lois Mc
Combs of the Junior team.
----------------------WITH OTHER COLLEGES
The faculty of the University of 
Illinois have instituted a new cutting 
systemcalled the ten per cent cut 
rul. The maximum number of cuts 
allowed is one-tenth the total num
ber of classes. The rule applies to 
all students. Heretofore Seniors have 
been granted more liberty than the 
Freshmen. The consensus of opinion 
among student leaders seems to be 
that the 10 per cent ruls is unjust; 
that the Seniors, because of maturor 
years and greater discretion ought 
not to be put on a par with the lower 
classmen; that education to them no 
longer means simply a matter of ab
sent or present marks behind ones 
name; that worthy Seniors value their 
classes too muc hto cut indiscrimi
nately and that a law which ranks 
them with heedless freshmen is unfair.:(( >(: *
GettysburgThe student body has 
abolished hazing in every form and 
a petition for closer relationship in 
every sphere of college activity has 
been presented to and unanimously 
accepted by the faculty. The move
ment was started by the ex-service 
men who have returned to college. It 
was decided that such action would 
be a betterment for the college and 
for the mutual confidence between the 
faculty and students.
FACULTY ENTERTAINED AT LITTLE THEATRE PARTY
On Saturday evening, November 
fifteenth, a factulty theatre party was 
held in the Little Theatre. Three 
plays were offered, Mary's Lamb, 
Blackberrying, and The Nursery 
Maid of Heaven. Refreshments 
were served during the intermission 
in the Exhibition Room.
The party was in charge of the 
committee on Public Occasions.
----------$-----------
GRAPHICA CARDS READY
The Christmas holidays are rapidly 
nearing and the time for making prep
arations for them is shortening. The 
Graphic is conducting an intensive 
advertising campaign for the next two 
weeks and offer their cards as one of 
the best ways of solving the gift or 
remembrance question for the innum
erable friends a person wishes to re
member. The cards arc of several de
signs and also individual as the buyers 
name is imprinted on each one.
The first batch of cards have been 
completed and many orders delivered. 
A notice will be posted from time to 
time to inform the students of the 
progress of their orders and the same 
can be obtained by calling at the De
partment of Printing.
Graphica blotters make their ap
pearance today and (ill a long-felt 
need.
The next issue of Events at Tech 
will be ready for distribution at the 
end of this week. Those wishing fu
ture dates advertised in the next issue 
please drop a line in the school postoffice addressed, The Graphica.
---------------------
Ardo Condo is the name of the car
toonist who draws a daily newspaper 
comic entitled Everett True. In 
this picture Everett True, a fat, burly 
fellow, is always shown in the act of 
pounding the life out of some human 
pest.
Everett does what the average lawabiding citizen would like to do, but 
does not do.
Well, Mr. Condo who is a small, 
thin, mild-tempered man, was standing 
in line at the postoffice in Cleveland 
one day waiting to buy a few stamps. 
The line was a long one and moved 
slowly. Mr. Condo had nearly reached 
the window when a newcomer delib
erately pushed his way in ahead. 
Everyone in the line was angered, but 
no one did anything about it, least of 
all Mr. Condo.
Isnt that disgusting, exclaimed 
the man back of Mr. Condo. I wish 
Everett True were here!
fllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll^
!
WHATS
THAT
The Mellon National Bank is 
one of the most thoroughly 
organized, strongest financial 
institutions on the country.
It is in a position to handle 
any account, large or small, 
with care and competency.
MELLON NATIONAL BANK
Pittsburgh, Pa.
wmmjrn mnmsmtmmutiMtmxiiK
OAKLAND EXPRESS AND I 
TRANSFER COMPANi I
Bell Phones 578 & 9169 Schenley H 
P. & A. 1092-R jj
229 ATWOOD STREET jj 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Household Goods Moved, Stored, 8 
^ Packed and Shipped. jj
I
THE PLACE WHERE
STUDENTS
TAKE THEIR SHOES
Hellefield 
Shoe Repairing Co.
Across from the Library
i)!

OAKLAND 
SAVINGS & TRUST COMPANY
Member Federal Reserve System 
Capital - - - $200,000.00 
Surplus and Undivided
Profits - - $260,000.90 
Deposits, Over - $4,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
IT WILL
BE OUT
DIVISION HEAD HONORED
The national Research Council has 
confirmed the election of Dr. W. V. 
Bingham, Director of the Division of 
Applied Physcliology of C. I. T., as 
first chairman of the Division of An
thropology and Physchology to serve 
until July 1, 1920.
During the war Dr. Bingham was 
executive secretary of the war depart
ments committee on classification of 
personnel.
-B----------Y. W. C. A. NOTES
The day for Y. W. C. A. meetings 
has been changed from Thursday to 
Monday in order that the Juniors who 
have 4:30 classes on Thursdays may 
attend. Please notice this, Juniors, 
and make it a plan to come to these 
meetings. You will be expected to 
carry on this work for M. M. next 
year, for responsibilities like this al
ways fall upon the Senior class.----------O-----------
FEDERAL BOARD ORGANIZES
At a recent gathering of the Fed
eral Board students at Tech it was 
decided to form a permanent organi
zation. An election was held and Gib
son was chosen president with Bliss 
vice-president; C. Wendells, secretary 
and Chas. Myers, treasurer. There 
are over 125 of these government stu
dents at this institution this year and 
the organization hopes to pull off 
some unique stunts in the entertain
ment line this season.
THURSDAY
AND GONNA
TAKE US
ALL DAY
FRIDAY
TO RECOVER
FROM
THE SHOCK.
OH^BOY !
TECH BARBER SHOP
NEAREST TO TECH
Cor. Craig and Forbes )
FRED FARGE.L, Proprietor. ]A 
i
Nearest and Best .Laundry 
Agency.
IIIIIIIIMllllllllllllIl
C. M. Stauft
3702 FORBES STREET 
TECH A PITT STATIONERY 
Moore, Watormnn nnd Parker 
Fountain Penn.
IllllllllllllllllllllllllUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJli
DELICIOUS CAKES
----for----
SOCIAL AFFAIRS!
----at----
THE HALLER BAKERY
3610 FORBES STREET 
IROQUOIS BLOCK
pilllillllllllllDlllllllilillM
SKIB0 INN
EATS
Cigars and Candy
AL LA PLACE
Formerly of William Penn and Fort Pitt Hotel 
I AM SERVING
--------------A--------------
Clean, Wholesome and Home Cooked Dinner for 35c
--------------At-----;--------
STAN D?A RD RESTAURANT 
3621 FIFTH AVENUE NEAR ATWOOD STREET
^uiiiu:inmiuii!iDiiiuiiUDiisiiiiuiauuiiimiiiiigi!iiiuiiiiiii;!iii!i!ii!iiii:u!iiuii![iuiiii 
1 OPEN DAY AND NIGHTPARK 411-R
EAT AT THE
SAVOY RESTAURANT
SPECIAL STUDENT'S LUNCH
3807 FIFTH AVE.
lillllllllllllM
HELLO, BILL, MEET ME AT THE
OAKLAND KITCHEN
116 OAKLAND AVENUE

---------------------------------------------------

T'M:ply; KLiNarijg'
3 ELEVATORS
COODY'HAR BELTS
Installed,according to - G.T.M,'recommendation at  Nast Bros,Riant, Knowles,Wis, for 100%.Belt Equipment
Oiuih*Wi/)
HYDRATOR
PULVERIZER
Required H,p. T-DClt Spcca ^MftFPN Dlim Olive Pulley *"O',vi i f) ".RPM 0-Wftul<y I?JOENGINE ROOM
Specified ^
GOODYEAR BELT 6'4PLYOUJE 5TRP.AK CONSTRUCTION
THE TARTANl>A -URWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1919
THE CAMPUS ANVIL
DANCING LESSONSCLASS AND PRIVATE
CRAIG AND FORGES
package
beforeOAKLAND HARDWARE COMPANY 
Pocket Knives Mazda Lamps
3606 FORBES STREET
package
during
436 SEVENTH AVE. 
All Kinds of Batteries 
Repaired and Recharged
a package
LASTSTHE FLAVOR
SO DOES THE
W
D C Pipes are certainly a mans smoke. They bring 
the smokejoy which every man seeks. Its in the 
mellow French briar, which is guaranteed against cracking or 
burning through, in quality of bit and band, and in workman
ship and design. Select several shapes today at any good 
dealers. Smoke a cool one every time.
Wm: DEMLITH 8t CO.V NEW YORK
WORLDS LARGE ST "MA K E R S^OF" FINE PIPES
Friday morning E. Ho den o Jaybo 
upon reporting to his first class at 
8 '10 found the door open. Ho was 
warmly received by the Prof. who 
apologized for the unreasonable hour. 
Upon complaining of a slight further 
drowsiness I-Iokno was allowed to re
tire for the remainder of the morning.
There was dancing in the Union,
And a goodly crowd was there,
A hundred football fans or more, were 
Clasping their maidens fair.
Then our dear old Prexy entered 
And he barked the clannish yell 
What will ye give the Panthers, boys 
And those hard eggs answered 
Well for four bits you can go and 
see the whole darn thing for yourself.
One Belt, an Entire Plantand the G. T. IV
The proper study of power necessarily in
cludes belts. No matter how competent the 
generative source of your power, the final re
sults from a drive depend on the success of 
the transmission. A belt may even be in 
many respects a good belt and yet fail to de
liver the power load economically because 
ill-adapted to the work required of it. The 
solution of the problem is the right belt for 
the particular need.
This is the idea underlying the service of the 
G.T. M.Goodyear Technical Man. The 
basis of his recommendation for a single drive 
or an entire plant is careful study of the power 
problem involved. To this analysis he brings 
the force of experience, the example of hun
dreds of comparative studies, the judgment of 
a man grown expert in the operating and ob
serving of many drives under many conditions. 
His plan is the scientific method.
After analysis, the right belt is prescribed. 
Is there heavy duty to be performed? That 
calls for one type, with the proper number of 
plies. Is light work at high speed the order? 
A belt of different specifications is required. 
All the factors of the drive-pulley dimen
sions, center-to-center distances, load, align
ment and applicationgovern the selection of 
the right belt for the specific use. The G.T. M. 
plots these factors with the painstaking exact
ness of an engineer.
The plant installation here illustratedNast 
Brothers Lime & Stone Co., at Knowles, Wis. 
typifies the value of G.T. M. analysis and 
Goodyear Belt quality. Two years ago, the 
G.T. M. specified for the Nast plant at Marble
head, Wis., a 6-inch, 4-ply Goodyear Blue 
Streak Belt for the pulverizer drivea beltkilling duty on which a new belt, with luck,; 
sometimes lasted a year. The Goodyear Blue! 
Streak for 22 months now has stood up to the; 
task so wellconfirmed by performance the; 
G.T.M.s analysissounmistakablythat today 
the whole Nast plant at Knowles is standard
ized on G.T. M. specified Goodyear Belts.
You may expect from Goodyear Belts the 
highest values of good belting. Flexible, they 
hold to the pulleys. Unstitched, they wear 
uniformly. They neither rip nor stretch. 
They outwear the average belttheir first 
cost is but little more. Proof of G.T.M. 
analysis and Goodyear Belt quality is at the 
command of every concern with a power prob
lem. The G.T. M. service is free. The Good
year Belt service is built into the belts.
Students and teachers of engineering who
would like to know more about the G.T. M. 
method of drive and plant analysis may find 
much of profit to them in the Goodyear Me
chanical Goods Encyclopedia. A request by 
letter to the Mechanical Goods Department 
of the Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co., Akron, 
Ohio, will bring one to you.
Satisfies the national 
demand for a whole
some, pure and appe
tizing beverageat the 
soda fountain or with 
your meals.Every Saturday night finds the 
dope more hopelessly scrambled than 
the week before. And now if the 
Plaid sends Pitt to the cleaners. Oh, 
Boy!
From. Cornell.
Dear Googie: Did you see the stu
dent in full Scotch costume marching 
at the head of the Carnegie Tech 
outfit Saturday, and do you suppose 
the fact that Carnegie had "two bare 
legs for a mascot while Cornell had 
a whole bear, could have had anything 
to do with the Pennsylvanias' de
feat? NOBODY.
Bevo will more 
satisfy your thirst.
FORCLECGMNLEUR
ST. LOUIS
It vin sc be 
Ice GoldBut heres the way we figure it out. 
Read this over fast:
1st game Tech won 
2nd game Tech lost 
3rd game Tech won 
4th game Tech lost 
nth game Tech won 
(>th game Tech lost
7th game Tech -------
After pulling that one Ah, heres 
ye Ed now. Academy? Sure. All set? 
Lots go. Giddap Napoleon.
MuhlenburgThe banner scrap 
was held recently and resulted in u 
victory for the Sophs. The Freshmen 
braced themselves around the tree
rdh bPP,Sheu rtuh y VFOOhu LPiTe.S
Offices Throughout the IVorU'
