Football 
Tech vs. Case 
Tech Field, Saturday
VOL. XIV. No. 3(Ehf (larian
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA
Tartan Staff 
Meeting 
4:30 Wednesday
OCTOBER IS. 1919.
NOTICE.
There will be a meeting of 
the Editorial and Business Stair 
of the Tartan in Room 1(52, De
sign Building on Wednesday 
afternoon at 4:30. All staff 
members must be present and 
j those interested in trying out 
should present themselves at 
this time. L. E. EMERICH, 
Editor.
iiili.15
NORMAL TO HE
We can well be proud of our fresh
man football team an they held the 
strong Indiana Normal eleven to a 
()-() score on Tech Field, Saturday 
morning. The field was a sea of mud 
but this did not stop the freshmen. 
Although handicapped by the lack of 
practice, Coach Hazel certainly put a 
lighting bunch on the field and played 
the heavy and experienced Normal 
team to a standstill. The wot field 
handicapped the players to a great ex
tent and the Frcshics advanced the 
ball on several occasions only to loose 
it by fumbles. Wet/.el at end, Ander
son at halfback ai^d Kalabich at tac
kle played a fine game. With more 
practice groat things can bo expected 
from the freshmen. Roferoe Blum, 
Umpire Price W. & J.
LINEUP:Tooli NORMALOLMAT0. Indiaim Normal0.
Iluwlilim .............I,. I-].............................Illll
ICalubloh .............I. T....................GwodoHiiMoCloan ............I,. Cl......................... . l.attMoli Umilio I li ..........0.......................O'Toole
UlHiior ...............it. (I.....................I lllllard
Griffon .................It. T.....................WaKiiorWot/.ol .................It. 10....................foliiiHlon< ninum .......................g...............................iiuoH
Anderson .............L. Il......................Roonoy
Albortbon ............lt. il......................liorrlcli
William .................!...................McG'onnoll
CASE SCHOOL"NEXT 
ON TECH SCHEDULE
The Case School of Cleveland is the 
next game on Schedule and Coach 
Steffen has a week full of hard work 
on his hands to prepare his team. 
Case always has a strong team and 
a hard game is expected. With the 
important contest with W. & J. over 
the team is pretty badly crippled, but 
the coach is lucky in having a good 
string of subs which can be expected 
to deliver the goods.
After the Case game comes the im
portant and hard game with Lehigh 
University on Tech Field. This is one 
of the best teams in the east and 
would be a test for any team. On the 
next Saturday we meet our old rivals 
Allegheny College on Tech Field. In 
1917 there was a 0-0 game played and 
a hard game is expected. Cornell fol
lows Allegheny and then with a week 
of rest Pitt and the most important 
game of the year is played.
This completes one of the hardest 
schedules ever arranged for a Tech 
team.
DIVISION OF THE ARTS 
HOLDS FIRST ASSEMBLY
Friday, October 10, the first general 
assembly of the year in the Division 
of the Arts was called by Director 
Bossangc. The little theatre was fill
ed to capacity and the gathering re
minded the many old students of the 
fo do war" days in Design.
President Hammerschlag uiddrcsspd 
the assembly bringing out the value 
of an all round artistic education, and 
calling attention to the ridiculous side 
of the so-called Bohemianism. Direc
tor Bossnngo outlined the history of 
Carnegie Tech and explained very 
clearly the policy of the Arts admin
istration both in regard to studios and 
student government.
The Patron, Mr. Kornbostol, then 
gavo a short but interesting talk on 
the new opportunities of the art stu
dent. The heads of the various de
partments wore then called on, and 
sketched briefly their plans for the 
coming years study.
At this point the assembly was 
turned over to the student body as a 
school mooting. Acting Chairman 
Schmortz called on Mr. Buchanan for 
an outline of the plans for tho im
mense musical extravaganza tho 
school is to stage in the near future.
Mr. Silling, the student activities 
representative called for a statement 
of sentiment in regard to the payment 
of members of the Tartan stall', The 
matter was tabled to the next meeting 
in order to allow time for furthor In
vestigation.
y. M. C. A. MEETING HELD 
Bi M. M. DIVISION
A big sister meeting was held on 
Thursday at 4:30, under the auspices 
of the Y. W. C. A. The older girls 
invited the freshmen to attend the 
mooting to become better acquainted 
with the upperclassmen. A great 
many new girls availed themselves of 
the opportunity. The meeting was 
held in the Recreation Hall. The Y. 
VV. is planning for an active year.
INTEREST REVIVED IN
STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS
Several of the student organiza
tions in the Division of Industry are 
getting under way and plans for their 
reorganization are being carried out 
rapidly. During the past week the 
Graphica elected officers for the 
coming season and admitted several 
of the new first-year students to mem
bership. James J. Rudisill was chosen 
president, W. D. Hall, vice-president; 
Henry Brayer, secretary; and L. 
Hawksworth, treasurer. Within the 
next week committees will be selected 
and active work will commence on 
the annual Xmas Card campaign. 
Plans are also being made to establish 
a library and club room for the mem
bers of the society.
gliilllllllllll!t!IIIIIIIBli!l!IIIIIIIIIUM
Are You Going to Cornell?
Carnegie Tech Special leaves P. & L. E. Station 11:00 P. M., 
November 7. We return November 10th, 7:30 A. M.
?
liiiimiiHiiiuiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiim
I
MUCH INTEREST SHOWN 
AT SCIENCE ASSEMBLY
On Wednesday, October 8, the first 
Science School assembly of the year 
! was held in Room 209. When the
! meeting started there was not even
standing room. The assembly took 
the form of a pep meeting. G. C.
I Stone, president of the Science Sen
ate, presided. First everybody sang 
the Alma 'Mater and by the end of 
j the second verse it sounded like the
days before the war. Then followed 
the nominations for representatives 
. of Science on the Student Activities
Board and on the Athletic Board of
Control. Ballots were collected after 
the meeting and the results were McDade on tho Board of onti'ol and C. 
B. Schmidt for Student Activities. Mr. 
j Schmidt, however, was found to be
| ineligible, as he is already serving on
the Board. Next on the program 
was the election of a cheer leader and 
an assistant cheer leader. Seven men 
j led cheers and some new talent was
discovered. Also the discovery was 
made that there was a woeful lack 
of knowledge of one or two cheers.
| That difficulty was corrected by the
I end of the meeting. After a number
I of announcements Safety First lead
j a few more cheers and then taught a
number of songs for the W. and J. 
! game. The meeting was closed by a
talk by Dean Tarbell, urging every
one to come to the W. and J. game.
With the appearance Tuesday of 
signs announcing a tennis tournament 
for the new men of Tech, an activity 
; has been put under way for the year, 
which promises to provide much inj terest for the students, and which 
bids fair to become, with the aid of 
the new facilities and the alreadyI shown support of the student body, 
i one of the most prominent sports of 
the school.
The management has arranged a 
j schedule whereby the men who have 
; already signed up may play off the 
elimination matches and prepare for 
the finals.
Four former High School, Prep 
School, and club stars have so far 
been located, and are now under the 
j eyes of the Coach and the Captain.
Col. John C. W. Brooks, who coach
ed the very successful team of last 
year, will coach the team for the fol
lowing year. Colonel Brooks is care
fully watching the tournament now 
under way, ready to coach and assist 
all of the new men who come out.
It is hoped that the Freshmen will 
respond heartily and in large numI bers, to the call for new men, that 
! when spring comes Tech may have a 
| line-up of veterans to pick from, and 
I may again be able to wrest the cham
pionship from our old rivals.
^i'i^Kiiniii9HRiii,iihinniisciiii![n!i]n!iiiniDiiniiuiiuni!iiiiiiiuiuiiiHiiiiiiiiuH!iiHnii!nfi^
| NOTICE.
^ All faculty members, or un- m 
M dergraduates who belong to the |j 
g Masonic Fraternity and are in- g 
H terested in organizing a Ma- g 
jj sonic Club at Tech, are request- 1 
; ; ed to send in, at once, their g 
jj name, their lodge name, num- g 
m ber, and location, together with g 
3 their Pittsburgh address, 
jj Division of Engineering and g 
g Science please address: 
gf E. H. Pafenbach,
c|o C. I. T. Post Office, 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 
p Division of Arts, Division of 
g Industries, to 
li James S. Church,
M cjo Office of the Director 
rj Division of the Arts,
Carnegie Tech, 
Pittsburgh, Pa.1 IiilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIM
BIG SEASON AHEAD FOR 
TECH MUSICAL CLUBS
Sunday witnessed the largest turn
out ever recorded at Tech for a nonathletic activity.
Just as a citation, there were about 
ninety new candidates for the Glee 
Club and about thirty for the Mando
lin Club besides the insignia mem
bers of both. Among the new aspir
ants are those who will be accepted 
at once by the exceptional ability 
demonstrated, while others will have 
to prove themselves musically fit.
Mr. Crawford, C. I. I. 13, Director 
of the Glee Club, was evceptionally 
well pleased with the material so far 
and expresses the belief that Tech 
will have the BEST Glee Club in its 
history. As he says tho, it is up to 
the fellows to stick with him and give 
him undivided attention and hard 
work. Also to keep up in their 
scholastic duties so as to make the 
trips.
The Mandolin Club Director, Pro
fessor Scalzo, affirms Mr. Crawfords 
statements but adds that he would 
like a little better material to show 
up and more pep to be shown.
Guitar players are badly needed as 
well as Cello players. Where is the 
talent from the design school?
George Ellerton, one of the few 
four-year insignia men, and Sween
eys side pax-tner, was out for prac
tice and there is a big possibility that 
the Mandolin Club will again receive 
his strong support on the Guitar.
Every year the Clubs are matched 
against each other in trying to pro
duce an entirely new specialty num
ber for the various programmes. It 
looks as though the Mandolin Club 
will be the prize winner this year.
Donald Sillers is the Clubs black 
horse for he has an entirely new con
trivance whereby the zephyrs of the 
air are formed into melodious sym
phony. It is planned to make this a 
(Continued on page 4.)
--------8---------
MUCH INTEREST SHOWN
IN TEAMS TOURNAMENT
.JUHIlillllMlllllliinQllliM
Get Your 1920 Thistle.
Cooperate with the 1920 Thistle Board. Do you want 
your Thistle by May first? Cooperation will do it. October 
1 22nd is the day to subscribe for your 1920 Thistle. A one 
1 dollar deposit is all that is necessary to order your year book.
BUY YOUR RECEIPTCOOPERATE.
Courtesy Gazette Times.A TENSETECH-W. & J. GAME.
Tech Loses Hard Fought
Contest to Wash-Jeff.
Team Was Greatly Outweighed 
But Made a Fine Showing.
1000 Rooters Accompany Team.
In a game that was played under 
frightful weather conditions the Var
sity was forced to defeat by W. & J. 
20-0 last Saturday. The playing field 
was sloppy due to rain before and 
during the game and caused much 
fumbling of the ball on both sides. 
Time after time a player would drop 
the slippery ball when tackled and 
two of these fumblas aided W. &. J. 
in scoring their touchdowns.
W. & J. won because they had a 
very heavy line which seemed to plow 
thru the mud as on a dry field.
Both teams played splendid football 
in the first half, the ball see-sawing 
from one side of the field to the other. 
W. & J. used an off-tackle play to ad
vantage but were forced to punt on 
the fourth down.
Here we had the advantage as Moon 
did splendid puting not considering 
the muddy ball. All during the game 
he raised high spirals that traveled 40 
to 50 yds. His punting was very 
pleasing, especially to Coach Steffen 
as this departure has worried him all 
season.
W. & J. was able to score in each of 
the last three periods, due to thenheavy line and backfield aided by a 
fumble on the 30-yard line.
Techs line at times was a stonewall 
throwing back W. & J.s forwards time 
after time. On live occasions they 
held and secured the ball on downs, 
once on the one-yard line after W. 
& J. had advanced the ball 18 yards 
on line plays.
Captain Carroll, Erickson and Smith 
played best for W. & J. while Capt. 
Marshall and Mood did best for Tech. 
Erickson played a fine game and was 
exceedingly fast for a wet field. Once 
he received a punt on the 50-yard line 
and outran the whole field for a touch
down.
Baldwin was injured in the 4th 
quarter and forced to retire with two 
broken ribs. He will be a loss to the 
team for some time.
The team was accompanied to Little 
Washington by over 1,000 Tech stu
dents on a special train. A parade was 
held in the city before boarding the 
special and upon arriving in Little 
George. As they outnumbered the W. 
& J. students 3 to 1 we simply took 
the town and outrooted their rivals. 
This was the real feature of the game, 
the newspapermen giving the verdict 
to the Plaid rooters. Both sides had 
a band, one a professional band of 15 
pieces and Tech had its student band.
Between halves a snake dance was 
staged on tfcie field by both schools 
and much courtesy was shown to Tech 
by the rival school. Perhaps never 
before have two rival teams met where 
there was such a friendly relation 
shown between the two student 
bodies.
The game in details: Captain Mar
shall won the toss and decided to re
ceive the kick-off.
Officials: Referee, Cosgrove, Cor
nell; Umpire, Tery of Penn State; 
Head Linesman, Knox of Yale.
LINEUP:
W. <5L J. Carnegie TechCarroll (Capt.)...L. E.......................WlttmerStein ........................L. T.........................RobertaTempleton ..........L. G...............................RothShield .......................C...............................IrwinStraw ......................R. G........................McCleanGarblach ................R. T..............................MoonLoucks ...................R. E............................IiaycHHrenkert ..................Q................................LevyElelHon ................. L. H... (Capt.) MarahallErickson ...............R. II........................BaldwinSmith .........................P............................Loomln
First Period
Garbisch kicked off for Washington 
& Jefferson. Hayes caught the ball, 
returning 5 yards to the Tech 30-yard 
line. Loucks threw Marshall at tho 
right end for a 2-yard loss. Hayes 
failed to gain at the same end on a 
triple pass, Breakert tackling him. 
Moon punted to Brenkert, who was 
JiiVown after a 5-yard gain by Mar
shall on W. & J.s 45-yard line.
Smith brushed Tech's right tackle 
for 5 yards. Erickson got 4 Vis more at 
the same place after slipping and fall
ing. Smith got between Techs right 
guard and tackle for 5 yards and first 
down, Williams stopping him on the 
Tech 45-yard line.
Eielson fumbled but recovered for 
a 1-yard loss.- Godden, substituted on 
Tech for Hayes at right end. Erick
son on a sweeping end run at Techs 
left wing gained 5 yards but fum
bled when tackled, Tech regaining the 
ball on her own 35-yard line.
Loomis was nailed by Carroll for a 
3-yard loss. He regained it on the 
next play. Baldwin was stopped by 
Loucks after gaining a yard on a 
double pass. Moon punted to Erick
son, who was dropped on W. & J.s 
18-yard line by Godden.
Smith hit center for 7 yards. Smith 
carried the ball again for two off right 
tackle. Brenkert made a quick plunge 
through center for first down on W. & 
J.s 30-yard mark. Eielson reeled oil 
two yards at Tech's left end, the ball 
being brought back and a five-yard 
penalty inflicted on Tech for off-side.
Behind a solid wall of interference, 
Erickson slipped around Tech's right 
end for 14 yards, the ball being in 
the middle of the gridiron. Brenk
ert was stopped for no gain at Techs 
right end. Smith made up a yard, 
placing the ball in midfield on a plunge 
at Techs right guard.
Eielson punted to Levy, who was 
downed on the Tech 20-yard line by 
Loucks after he ran 5 yards. Mar
shall was stopped for no gain at W. 
& J.s left side by Eielson.
Erickson fumbled Moons punt and 
Godden recovered on W. & J.s 43-yard 
line. Baldwin hit a stone wall at W. 
& J.s right tackle for no gain. Mar
shall gained 2 yards at the W. & J. 
left side. A double pass and a for
ward pass from Loomis was incom
plete. Levy fumbled Irwins pass but 
recovered and was downed in midfield. 
W. & J. took the ball on downs. Eiel
son failed to gain an inch, McClean 
stopping him at Techs left side.
Smith met the same fate at the cen
ter of the line on a cross buck. Levy 
was nailed in his tracks on Eielsons 
punt, by Stein. Ball on the 20-yard 
line. Marshall was nailed by Shields 
for a 2-yard loss at the W. &. J. left 
end. Loomis rammed the W. & J. cen
ter for three yards. Moon kicked to 
Erickson, who was downed by Mar
shall after returning seven yards.
Erickson found a stone wall at 
Tech's left end for no gain. McClean 
intercepted a forward pass from 
Smith. Techs first down on the 47- 
yard line. Garbisch threw Baldwin 
behind the line. Loomis made a 5- 
yard gain through the W. & J. line, 
but fumbled. Smith recovered in mid
field for Wash-Jeff.
Eielson failed to gain at Techs 
right end, being dropped by Baldwin. 
Smith cross bucked through Techs 
(Continued on page 4.)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE TARTANWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1919.
lje (Haran
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnogie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Activities Board.
Entered in the postoffice of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
This year $1.50 5c the copyCanada, $1.75
Phone Schcnlcy 3743
EDITORIAL
Managing Editor 
L. K. Paquin
AaBiutant Managing Editor 
F. I. Smith
Ncwa Editor 
C. M. Blackburn
Aasiotant Ncwu Editor 
J. T. Amen
Athlctic Editor 
H. W. Lynn
School Editors
M. M. C. S.............Margaret J. Griffen
Science....................J. K. W. Macalpine
Industries.............................I. R. Rudisill
Design..............................T. R. Hinckley
Other Assistants 
C. L. Lake 
W. D. Hall 
II. C. Haldeman
BUSINESS STAFF
. Charles Todd 
Assistants 
William Kraus Daniel Cassidy
TARTAN OFFICE.Hours1:00 to '1:00 Wednesdays. 
12:00 to 1:00 Thursdays.
.Room 1G2, Design
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the Man
aging Editor for the make up. ,All business communications should be sent to the Business Manager. 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported 
at once. .________________________________________:______
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the signature to be withheld if desired. , ,All news items must be in the student postoffice, Central Building, before 
noon on Saturdays. ______________ ______
REGRETS.
It is sincerely regretted that several articles of vast importance did not 
appear in the last issue.The Tartan changed printers between the first and second issues. In so 
doing matters were rather complicated. An abundance of news together 
with the space taken up by advertising and cuts brought up a rare situation 
too much material. The printers, however, without consulting the proper 
authorities, filled the space regardless as to the importance of the articles
therein. .Mishaps will happen in the best of organizations, therefore, remember
ing this, it is hoped that the slips" in the last issue will be overlooked. 
However, our sincere apology is extended to those affected.
--------------------
POLITICS.
Several instances have come up during the election of class and school 
officers upon which the opinions of students should be expressed. As the 
Tartan is affiliated with the Student Activities Board and is essentially a 
paper for the students by the students, it is necessary for us to voice 
their statements. , (With the founding of the Interfraternity Council it was hoped that all 
traces of Fraternity Politics would be abolished. As is recalled it is also a 
part of their constitution to see that this is done.Within the last week it seems that traces of Fraternity Politics have 
been appearing again. It should be necessary therefore to call a meeting 
of the council so that matters could be investigated and the guilty ones 
reprimanded,In our institution this so-called evil is an uncommon occurrence in late 
years, and once abolished we should think that no one would be so small as 
to revive It. However important the position the best man always for it no 
matter to what fraternity he might belong. This is the position taken by 
the majority of the fraternities and old customs should not be broken by 
even one of the Big Fivo.We do not mean to antagonize anyone thru our columns and are really 
sorry that it is necessary for us to comment on these occurrences. How
ever, we would suggest that the instances ol the last week be not repeated or 
more drastic measures will be taken by higher authorities.
DIRECTORY OF CARNEGIE CLANS.
The following directory is printed In the interest of students who may 
perhaps stop overin the cities in which the clans are organized and thereby 
get In touch with Tech men. It is hoped that the directory will be of aid and 
advanta ;' to the many students.
AKRON- Secy A. C. Sprague '1(1, 185 Perkins St., Akron, 0.
HIJ I1'I*'A 1,0 -Sec'y 1). A. Curtis, 17(1 Maple St., Buffalo, N. Y.
(Ml 1CJACJO*Sec'y .1. .1. Kennedy M7, 8-IH Sheridan Hoad, Chicago, 111. 
CLIOVHLAND- Sec'y Martin S. Kingsley M2, 1597 Orchard Grove Ave.,Lakewood, O,
I) 1STIIOIT Sec'y L. I.. Milken '10, c|6 Pittsburgh Testing Laboratories,Detroit, Michigan. 
JOHNSTOWN Secy Ray W. Light, MO Third Ave., Johnstown, Pa.
NEW VOII 1C- Secy .Julius Cuter, 15 Parw Row, New York City. 
PITTSBURGH -Secy George Porter 'II, MM Forbes St., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
PHILADELPHIASec'y L. E. Exline '09, 213 S. 47th St., Breslyn Apts.,Philadelphia, Pa. 
YOUNCSTOWNSecy George W. Todd 18, 248 Rodona Road,Youngstown, O
News of the Clans.
AkronOn October 2, the Akron clan held a meeting for organizing and 
adopting the years program.
PhiladelphiaThe Philadelphia clan held a dinner at G:30 on Saturday 
October 11, at the Arcadia Restaurant. Mr. L. E. Exline, the secretary of 
the clan, presided.
H. E. Gumbert 15 has just returned after four years in China for the 
Standard Oil Company of New York. He is in the United States on a six 
months furlough and will probably return to China for three years further 
service. He reports having seen Claude Ettele 17 in Yokohama, Japan.
MR. G. M. LOVELACE
IS INSRANCE TEACHER
Griffin M. Lovelace of Mountain 
road, West Hartford, has resigned 
from the Connecticut Mutual Life In
surance Company to become secretary 
of the School of Life Insurance Sales
manship of Carnegie. He has also 
been appointed to the professorship 
of life insurance practice, the first 
ever offered in this country. The first 
central training school for life insur
ance salesmanship in America opens 
in October.
Early in the year Mr. Lovelace re
signed his post as superintendent of 
agencies of the Connecticut Mutual 
and became general agent of that 
company for Tennessee. He was then 
granted a leave of absence for three 
months to go to Pittsburgh to assist 
in planning the course of insurance 
instruction. Being convinced of the 
far-reaching possibility of this new 
central training system in improving 
the vocation of life insurance sales
manship Mr. Lovelace temporarily 
sacrifices the opportunities of general 
agency work to see the school ihoroughly established as a permanent 
plan in the life insurance business of 
the country.
Mr. Lovelace is a natice of Kentucky and was educated at Vanderbilt 
University and the University of Ber 
lin. He came to Hartford in 1907 as 
assistant superintendent of agencies 
of the Connecticut Mutual, and be
came superintendent in 1909.
MILITARY NOTES
All men who have not been measured for uniforms are asked to repor 
to the Military Department between 
the hours of 8:80 A. M. to 12 N. or
between 1 P. M. and 4 P. M. on any
school day.
Military work will start about Oc 
tobcr 18th, an assembly of all R. O, 
T. C. men will be held on Tuesday at 
U!0 The place of this meeting will 
be announced on the bulletin boards 
later
Any students who have been com
missioned in the U. S. Army, are
asked to see Col. Brooks. They are
needed as assistant instructors. There 
are about five hundred applicants for 
the R. O. T. C.
Fraternity Notes
ALPHA KAPPA PSI
The marriage of Miss Mary Vir
ginia Mcllvaine and Craig Hamilton 
Geddis took place, the evening of Oc
tober first in the Third Presbyterian 
Church, followed by a reception for 
more than five hundred guests, in the 
ball room of the Hotel Schenley. The 
bride, who was given in marriage by 
her father, wore a gown of white satin, 
her full court train which fell from 
the shoulders was caught with pearl 
embroidered butterflies, her veil fash
ioned with fan-shaped head dress. She 
carried orchids showered with orange 
blossoms. Miss Lou Mcllvaine, as her 
sisters maid of honor, was attired in 
a gown of Alsace blue satin, Miss 
Lorene Berkey and Miss Edna 
Blanche Ford, who have recently re
turned from service in U. S. N. R. F. 
Washington, wore gowns of yellow 
and lavender satin, and carried show
ered boquets of dahlias. Miss Char
lotte Goff who had just returned from 
Red Cross Service in France wore old 
gold satin, and Miss Geddis, sister of 
the groom, completed the immediate 
wedding party. Miss Mcllvaine at
tended Design School and Mr. Geddis 
is a graduate of Princeton University.
Miss Katho'rine Kennedy, Alpha 
Chapter, founder of Kappa Chapter at 
Carnegie Tech was married September 
13 to Kenneth Toomey of Baltimore.
PHI EPSILON PI
Pittsburgh is to be the scene of a 
big convention this year, when Phi 
Epsilon Pi holds its annual conclave 
in this city. This marks the nine
teenth annual gathering of the frat
ernity and the first in Pittsburgh. The 
Conclave has never before been held 
in any city west of Philadelphia, and 
the chapters in this vicinity are pre
pared to make the occasion a momen
tous one.
The committee in charge consists 
of L. Elisenstat of Tech, P. Pachman 
of Penn State, and I. E. Ecker of the 
University of Pittsburgh. They arc 
preparing to receive aljout 250 dele
gates. The headquarters of the Con
clave, which will start on December 
28, will be maintained at the William 
Penn Hotel. Outside of the business 
sessions there will be a series of the
atre parties, dinners, and receptions, 
winding up with a grand ball at the 
hotel on New Years Eve. During con
vention week open house will be main
tained at Zeta Chapter house, 5100 
Forbes Street, and also at Phis new 
chapter house, which, it is expected, 
will be available by that time. .
Phi Epsilon Pi has chapters at most 
of the eastern and southern colleges, 
and this years convention is heralded 
as a step toward westward expansion. 
At the conclave petitions from fra
ternities in ten middle western col
leges will be considered.
------------------SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON.
Sigma Alpha Epsilons first week in 
Carnegie Tech has been a busy one 
A few of the Alumni, many of whom 
were hero for installation, have been 
in the house for the past week.
Bro. Stan Connell, of Oil City, re
turned home, after attending the in
stallation and the Science Alumni 
luncheon. Brother A. I). Moore, Sc. 
15, returned to the University of 
Michigan, where ho is an instructor.
Red Klievcs, of Wheeling and Me' 
Keosport was in the city on a business 
trip and was n visitor at the house for 
a few days.
The following brothers have return
'd to school after spending from one 
to three years in the service: L. T.
Barry, of the Air Service, E. A. Butts, 
C. A. Me Dade, and Jack Cunningham, 
who were with the 15th Engrs., Billy 
Sunday Mills, of the Marine Avaition, Tom Tiffany, of the Marines, 
Rev. Foust and McKee of the A. E. 
F. and Blenko, of the Royal Flying 
Corps.
Brother George Balaurie, last years 
president of the musical clubs, who at
tended night school during the past 
year, has re-entered day school and in
tends to finish this year.
Pledge Hawkins, formerly of Ohio 
State, and now attending Design 
School is living in the house.
Brother Shields, formerly of Penn 
State, and Brother Mateer of St. 
Louis are attending Tech and are liv 
ing in the house.
Brother L. T. Barry has been in N. 
Y. on a business trip for the past 
week.
----------S----------LOST:  Between Carnegie Tech 
and Craig and Forbes. A watch, size 
12, 15-jewel Elgin, hunting case gold 
filled. There was a small gold chain 
fob attached. Finder will please leave 
at the office of the Military Dept., C. 
I. Sgt. Homer M. Junkins.
----------$----------MENS DORM.
The number of Plebes in the mens 
Dormitories is enormous. In one dor 
mitory 18 out of a total of 104 men 
are upper classmen. This makes it 
possible for the Sophs to have quite 
a bit of amusement. Plebes, beware 
of a midnight summons to appear be
fore the court of justice.
The South Dorm (No. 4) at a meet 
ing, held Wednesday night, elected 
the officers for the following quarter. 
The following is the result of the 
election:
President ............................ Halderman
Vice President ........................ICritche
Secretary.................................. Guenther
Treasurer ........................................ Bliss
Dean Tarbell spoke before a n 
ing of East Dormites on Tuesday
ning. He desired that the men co
operate with him in housing the In
surance men coming here. The men 
were to vacate their rooms and reside 
in partly unfurnished rooms in a 
Cream Dorm. The men responded 
gallantly.
Officers for the following quarters 
are:
President...............................W. C. Fox
Vice President.............J. P. McCurdy
Secretary .......................J. M. Leonard
Treasurer..........................W. A. Keller
Floor Managers ..R. Townsend,
J. A. Harvey, T. Jendrusiak----------p----------
JUNIOR SCIENCE SCHOOL 
NOMINATIONS
President
Gorman
Schmidt
Stupakoff
Bloom
Secretary
Ravenscroft
Nichol
Foxon
Treasurer
P. W. Craig
Leet
Gare
Herrmann
NOTES AND CHANGES
IN CARNEGIE FACULTY
Secretary Thomas Stockham Baker, 
of Carnegie Institute, will return to 
his desk September 22. He is spend
ing a few weeks in Maryland and will 
visit New York in connection with 
business of the institute before his 
return.
Two new appointments in mathe
matics have been made at Carnegie 
Tech for the coming school year. 
Glenn James, formerly of Purdue 
University, has been appointed assist
ant professor of Mathematics. He 
graduates from Indiana University in 
1905 and received an M. A. degree 
from that school in 1910, receiving a 
degree of Ph. D. from Columbia Uni
versity in the same year. From 1905 
to 1908 Prof. James taught mathe
matics at the Michigan Agricultural 
College, since which he has been con
nected with Purdue University, hold
ing the rank of assistant professor. 
He has published some papers on under-graduate topics and other investi
gations in advanced mathematics are 
shortly to appear. Edgar M. Starr 
has been appointed instructor in 
Mathematics. He attended Blooming
ton (Ind.) high school and graduated 
from Indiana University. He was 
principal of the Certified high school 
in Fayette county, Indiana, until he 
entered the service. He was commis
sioned as lieutenant and was stationed 
at Camp Hancock, Ga.
----------------
TECH-NICALITIES 
Announcement has been made of 
the marriage on Monday evening of 
Miss Esther Rosamond Fromme, 
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Alexander 
Fromme of Wightman Street, and 
Robert George Weiskopf, of Minne
apolis. The ceremony was performed 
in the Hotel Schenley.
Miss Fromme is a graduate of the 
School of Drama, Division of the Arts, 
and is well known and liked by many 
of the older, students at Tech.
The engagement has been announc
ed of Miss Mary Lee Osborn of Dick
son avenue, a student of the Division 
of the Arts, to Edward Hooper Sykes 
of Bellevue. Mr. Sykes is a graduate 
of Pennsylvania State College, and a 
member of the Phi Kappa Sigma fra
ternity.
tiooiTclSlw?
FOR COLLEGE MEN
There is an excelling style atmosphere 
about our clothes which make them instant
ly popular.
They appeal to college men not alone be
cause of their dominating style, but largely 
on account of the high-grade tailoring and 
serviceable fabrics.
Our chain-store system affords worth-while 
savings. Visit our store nearest you and be 
convinced. Correct fit and satisfaction 
guaranteed.
OUR OWN RETAIL STORES AT
AKRON, Ohio...........................124 S. Main St.
CLEVELAND, Ohio.503-505 Prospect Ave.
MILWAUKEE, Wis.................192 Third St.
PITTSBURGH, Pa..................507 Market St.
PITTSBURGH, Pa.. .209-11 Smithfield St.
PITTSBURGH, Pa............932 Liberty Ave.
READING, Pa..............................751 Penn St.
SCHENECTADY, N. Y.. .302-304 State St.
SYRACUSE, N. Y...............138 S. Salina St..
TERRE HAUTE, Ind... .410 Wabash Ave.
WILKES-BARRE, Pa.............66 S. Main St.
YOUNGSTOWN O.. 107-109 W. Federal St.
We will open stores at Scranton, Pa., and 
Trenton, N. J'., early in 1920.
r3M3M3MS/3/5SMaM3M3I^f2M3M?/33/5ffaiar(0iprf0fan3?ani[F]iffarar?irirar^'-- ^ rr1 CT fP m Fot m r=v
B DIXON'S " ELDORADO'Lr/ie master drawing pencil -BSC? 1
Put pep into your pencil work. Use a 
smooth, long-lasting responsive lead 
thateasesandquickens your pencil tasks 
and makes them more pleasurable 
il.15
"Oie master drawing pencil
l'TUEADS/ one for every need 
or preference - - 
SOLD BY GOOD STATIONERSAT SCHOOL AND IN TOWN
FRATERNITIES
I ATTRACTIVE SNAPPY
I YOUNG MENS STORE
JAGEMAN & SPICKERT 
CLOTHINGHATSFURNISHINGS 
C 121 Penn Avenue East Liberty
Mary Blair, a former student of the 
School of Drama, is now with the 
Stage Guild, and will appear in Mase
field,s The Faithful.
The enrollment for the coming year 
promises to exceed by more than onethird that of any former year. The 
greatest increase in registration as 
of September 1, compared with the 
registration in September, 1917, is 
shown in the Division of Applied 
Science and Engineering, in which the 
registration is nearly 50 per cent high
er than that at the same time two 
years ago.
The registration of special students 
is also considerably larger and is 
more difficult of comparison until the 
courses are established and the regis
tration completed.
Miss Betty Brown, a graduate of 
he School of the Drama, spent a few 
days recently visiting her parents in 
Pittsburgh. Miss Brown has played 
under John Drew, Lou Tellegen, and 
other directors. She will return to 
New York for the opening of the 
theatrical season.
Miss Bernice Krufier 19 is at pres
ent working in President Hamerschlags office. Miss Bess Sharply 
19 is in the Registrars office.
Chuck Meredith, well-known and 
popular former Tech-ite, who was 
here a couple of years ago with CarSTUDENTS WELCOME
Fred Suddabys Cafeteria
EUREAU OF MINES BUILDING
11 A. M. to 2 P. M. Every School Day
GREAT EATS AT 
THE SCHENLEY LUNCH 
FORBES AND CRAIG STREETS
FEED SUDDABY, Proprietor
YOU DANCE?
DANCING LESSONS
JACQUES 
CRAIG AND FORBES
CLASS AND PRIVATE 
DANCING'ACADEMY
BELL PHONE
ter De Haven in his ill-starred Baa, 
Baa, Black Sheep, has gone into the 
movies. He has made at least one 
appearance opposite Margurite Clark.
The Associated Artists of Pitts
burgh have chosen the jury of awards 
to judge pictures in their tenth annual 
exhibition in Carnegie Institute, Oc
tober 24 to November 24. Among 
those elected are Charles W. Haw
thorne, who lived in Pittsburgh sev
eral years ago, during his engagement 
as special instructor in art at Tech. 
Others are George W. Sotter and C. 
J. Taylor. Mr. Sotter until this sum
mer was also an instructor here, and 
Mr. Taylor, who is a painter of na
tional repute and is conspicuous as 
one of Americas masters in black and 
white, is one of the faculty of the 
Painting and Decoration Department.
TRANSITS AND LE

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1919.THE TARTANPAGE THREE
RECEPTION
HELO IN ARTS DIVISION
The Annual Deans Reception, or, 
as it will now have to be called, the 
Directors Reception, was held in 
the exhibition room of the Division 
of the Arts building last Friday eve
ning, October 10. As is always the 
case, the affair was a great success, 
the Freshmen, Sophomore, and Junior 
classes all furnishing stunts for the 
entertainment of the guests.
The purpose of the reception, which
given each year by Director and 
Mrs. Bossange, was to welcome the 
new students and introduce them to 
their instructors. Each class is sup
posed to stage some form of amuse
ment as a prelude to the formal in
troductions and the refreshments and 
dancing which follow.
The Plebe contribution, which was 
given by the men of that class from 
the School of Drama, which school 
usually furnishes most of the stunts, 
took the form of a burlesque of the 
Gold Scene from the Hidden Treas
ures of the Earth Pageant, which was 
presented at Forbes Field and later 
as a part of the Fall Festival on Tech 
Field. The nugget in this case was 
a bottle of good old corn likker, 
which of course is as precious as gold 
these days. Individual hits were made 
by the slave, Mr. Williard; the mer
chant who sold concrete parachutes 
for submarine divers, Mr. Hertz; and 
the beautiful snake charmer, Mr. Mc
Clure, whose costume unfortunately 
slipped. The man who threw his 
shoulder out of joint, was very much 
applauded, as were also the dancers, 
Mr. Lees and Mr. Lubin being espe
cially attractive. The offering was a 
scream from start to finish, and may 
easily be said to have carried off the 
honors of the evening.The sopohomores were represented 
by a Jazz Orchestra composed of girls 
from the Music, and Painting and 
Decorating Departments in some 
snappy numbers, and a playlet, The 
Trials' of a Manager, by members of 
that class in Drama. Those taking 
part were Mrs. Wm. Hazel, Miss Grey 
McCauley, Kenneth Thomson, Law
rence Paquin, Owen White, Hans 
Muller, and Howard Chaney. The 
sketch was original and laughable,-es
pecially the climax. Music was fur
nished by the Jazz orchestra for the 
play. .The Junior Architects were repre
sented by Lawrence Rank, Robert 
Schmertz, and Willard Perkins, who 
presented a blackface sketch.
The last number of the program, 
and the most finished and expert, was 
the dance by Miss Elizabeth Smith, 
Miss Smith, who is now instructor in 
aesthetic dancing in the Arts Divi
sion, is an experienced professional 
dancer, and came here from New 
York, where she appeared last year in 
the production of Materlincks Be
trothal. Her performance literally 
took the audience by storm, and the 
applause was such that she had to 
give an encore number before the ap
plause would even begin to subside.
The evening was rounded out by 
the serving of cider, punch, dough
nuts, cakes, and cheese sandwiches; 
and general dancing in the foyer of 
the building. The occasion was one
bFal IV 
e.va.O:x ~'Py-L-W>-
PxY,
P. LUDEBUEHL ANO SON
PENN AND FR A NKSTOWN 
AVENUES
$8.50 to $15.50
CUT DOWN YOUR SHOE [$ 
EXPENSE by buying better 
shoes. You will find them far j|j 
u cheaper to wear than shoes g 
{jO which are not so high in quality, [a 
[3 Our new models for FALL and 
3 WINTER are now in, and they  
g are full of snapjust suitable ||j 
 for the college man. g
i a1 Bti-j i^/i>!J3J2J3JSMSJ3M2i21SJSJ3i3J3MSJ3JSMSM
fli TdCO
long to be remembered by all the 
members of the Division, as well as 
by the Plebes, whose official intro
duction to the time-honored Design 
Affairs it proved to be.
CLUB TO
DELICIOUS CAKES
-for
SOCIAL AFFAIRS
-------rat--------
THE HALLER BAKERY
3610 FORBES STREET 
IROQUOIS BLOCK
The reorganization meeting of the 
Cosmopolitan Club will be held 
Thursday, October 16, at 4:30 p m. in 
Room 113, Science Building. The club 
looks forward to this year as a year 
of real achievement and progress. Or
ganized last year for the purpose of 
promoting social and intellectual in
tercourse between the students of 
Tech hailing from foreign lands and 
also those of this country who realize 
that a better understanding of the 
home conditions and surroundings of 
their fellow students will aid them in 
solving the multifarious problems 
connected with foreign relationship, it 
has been somewhat hampered by un
settled post-war conditions. But now 
that the situation has been somewhat 
clarified the members look forward 
to a spirited resumption of activities. 
To the new students at Tech coming 
from foreign countries, the club ex
tends a sincere welcome, on behalf of 
the Institute and ourselves. Let us 
help you to adjust yourself to new 
situations and conditions, and allow 
us the advantage and pleasure of ac
quainting ourselves with the land of 
your birth..
New men and old, bo sure to come 
to our first meeting of the year, at 
which the officers for the coming year 
will be elected.
-------------------------
three-year plan. The following were 
elected: H. C. Hammand, president; 
James J. Rudisill, vice-president; P. 
D. Good, secretary; W. D. Hall, treas
urer. H. W. Lynn was unanimously 
chosen as the Athletic Representative 
of the class. Plans are being made to 
insure a successful program of activ
ity during the year. The Editor-inChief of the 1921 Thistle comes from 
the class and he and his associates arc 
assured of the hearty cooperation of 
all the members of this organization.
ARTS PLEBES ORGANIZE
CLASS FOR COMING YEAR
TECH BARBER SHOP
NEAREST TO TECH
Cor. Craig and Forbes $
FRED FARGEL, Proprietor.
Nearest and Best Laundry 
Agency.
THE PLACE WHERE
STUDENTS
TAKE THEIR SHOES
Bellefield 
Shoe Repairing Co.
Across from the Library
AT
REGULAR M. NI. ASSEMBLY
The regular weekly assembly of M. 
M. D. was held on Wednesday, Octo
ber 8, 1919. The Assembly Hall was 
filled to overflowing. The main fea
ture-of the assembly was the address 
by President Hamerschlag. In it he 
advised the girls to make the very 
best use of the advantages which they, 
as college women, had.
After President Hamerschlags talk 
the assembly was left in charge of 
the students. Mary Zarobsky, vicepresident of the Athletic Association, 
made an ardent plea for the member
ship campaign, which is to take place 
next week. She and several other 
girls urged the students of Margaret 
Morrison to attend the Tech-W. & J. 
game. Quite a few of the girls re
sponded. The assembly ended by 
singing Dear Old Tech.
G. M. Sfauff
3702 FORBES STREET 
TECH & PITT STATIONERY 
Moore, Waterman and Parker 
Fountain Pens.
ailll[lll!l!lillUlllUlllUlllUll!UUUllUUUllUUIilUl!milllllllillimi!UlUlllimi!IiUlllllllliUUIUI2
^ltlllllllllUllllll!lllllilll!iilllillllllllUllimUlUllI)lU!lUliU!llllll!lUlHlllliIIIillUiHlllllIinillllUI^
SKIB0 INN ;
EATS
Cigars and Candy
FIRST JUNIOR CLASS OF
The first Junior class of the Divi
sion of Industries was organized last 
Wednesday by the students in that 
division who are rated as Juniors un
der the new classification brought 
about by the adoption of the four 
year degree courses and those who 
ax-e enrolled as upper men under the
The plebe class of the Division of 
the Arts, held its first meeting of the 
year Wednesday of last week for the 
purpose of organizing. The class nom
inated officers and elected a commit
tee to arrange a stunt for the Dean's 
reception the following Friday.
Mr. Silling of the senior class ad
dressed the meeting in behalf of Dean 
Bossange on the freshman reception. 
President Lake of the Sophomore 
class spoke on plebe discipline and ad
vocated a 100 per cent freshman turn
out for the W. & J. game. The meet
ing was well attended, and affects 
credit on the school spirit of the Arts 
plebes.
PLEBE WAKES POETIC ON
THEME OF NEW HAT
"MY HAT.
Im just a plebo who wears a hat sir, 
Black socks and black cravat sir,
I can stand the tie and socks sir, 
een at that:
For* the tieit is complete sir,
And the socksthey fit my feet sir, 
But I cannot say the same about 
the hat.
I would not give offence sir,
That would be at my expense sir, 
Oh give me but a moments space 
to chat,
The maker cannot help but thrive sir, 
If a dollar seventy-five sir,
Is the usual price he gets for such 
a hat.
When I came down those stairs sir,
I am sure I had no airs sir,
But you seemed to think I thought 
myself the cheese
For upon my little head sir,
You jammed, as I have said sir,
That hat. Great stars above! but 
it did squeeze!
At once I did object sir,
But no flaws would you detect sir, 
You insisted on my money right 
away.
In fact sir, you persisted 
And all your crowd insisted
That a better fit had not been made 
that day.
Now Ive been out in the rain sir,
And how my head does pain! sir 
That hat has shrunk to half its 
natural size,
I can hardly get it on sir,
Yet you tell me to begone sir,
When schemes to get it on I would 
devise.
I can stand the ties and socks sir 
een at that;
For the tiesthey arc complete sir, 
And the socksthey fit my feet sir,
But I CANNOT say the same about 
my hat.
Although the above was contrib
uted anonymously; the Tartan wishes 
to state that, should the Plebe whose 
brain-child this appears to be, care 
to call at the office of the paper at 
the time designated in the Meeting 
Notice, he may at least secure the 
honor of a position as a cub re
porter.
PLAY PRODUCED FOR
COLLEGE PRESIDENTS
A production of Synges Well of 
the Saints will be given on October 
22, in the Theatre of the Arts Divi
sion, for a convention of College 
Presidents which is to meet at Tech 
next week. The direction is in the 
hands of Mr. Hubert Osborne, a new 
instructor in the School of Drama, 
but an experienced director.
-----------------------WHAT TO DO BEFORE FLIGHT.
Togged out in your leatherette tux
edo, swagger nonchalantly up and 
down the lobby a few times, and take 
a turn or two around the verandah!
If your leather panties squeak, its 
a good signit will attract attention 
to you.
Have yourself paged all over the 
hotelMister Bjones wanted at the 
hangar! Calling Mister Bjones! (It 
will put everybody wise!)
Then strut over to the machine and 
hold up your finger to see which way 
the wind is blowing.
Feel of the wires between the wings 
of the machine. Pluck them, as if 
playing a guitar. It will show your 
interest.
IMPORTANT: Make sure that the 
tires are blown up hardmuch de
pends on it!
As you rise from the bosom of 
Mother Earth, into the realm of eth
ereal instabilitysay a little prayer 
somewhat like this
Now I lay me twenty bones,
This will be the last of Bjones.
If I should die before we land 
Bury me over there in the sand.
Or some suitable remark like
I always did dislike the odor 
of tube-roses!
Or
I wonder if theyll miss me 
at the office? ? ?
Anythingso long as you maintain 
an appearance of nonchalant abandon 
gay dogripping good sport, you 
know, jazzing about among the cloud
lets!
----------8----------
DESIGN SCHOOL PLEBE CLASS
MEETING AND NOMINATIONS.
students to come and acquaint them
selves with our purposes and ideals. 
The older students are asked to come 
out to help the society to organize and 
resume activities.
----------8----------Design School P. M. Dancc.
Enjoyed By All 
In accordance with a custom long 
in use in Design School the first of 
the afternoon Dance was held in the 
main corridor of the school. The 
plebe girls were lined up on one side 
of the main Hall and the boys led by 
several upper classmen were intro
duced. It was attended by most of the 
students who admit they had a good 
time. A jazz orchostra (?) formed 
by Park, Schmertz and Shopp furnish
ed the music. This dance was given 
so the Piobes could have a chance to 
meet each other beforo the Deans 
reception Friday night.
----------W----------Design Juniors Meet and
Make Start on Plans. 
It all happened on Tuesday, Octo
ber 7th, that the Juniors of Design 
School were called together in solomn 
session by Jimmy Church to eiect 
officers for the ensuing year. They 
got as far as the nominations when 
difficulty was encountered over the 
the question of many of the nominees 
by regular Juniors. It was unani
mously decided to have a meeting this 
week on Thursday, October 1(1, and it 
is hoped the Juniors will lie straight
ened out by that time. So all you 3rd 
year artists be out this meeting as 
many things have been planned.
----------Design Soph Class Meeting
and Election. 
Clifford Lake acting in the role of 
temporary chairman, led the Sopho
mores of Design in a very snappy 
meeting for the election of olliceis. 
Results of the election:
PresidentF. Hughs
1st Vice PresidentAl. School
2nd Vice PresidentMrs. Hazel 
TreasurerA. W. Chestehman 
Secretahy M. Winslow 
HistohianNusbaum.
--------------------MINING ENGINEERING
GETS NEW INSTRUCTOR
The Mellon National Bank is 
one of the most thoroughly 
organized, strongest financial 
institutions on the country.
It is in a position to handle 
any account, large or small, 
with care and competency.
Pittsburgh, Pa.
OAKLAND EXPRESS IB  
TRANSFER COMP
Boll Phone 578 & 9169 Schonloy 
P. & A. 1092-R 
229 ATWOOD STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 
Household Goods Moved, Stored, 
Packed and Shipped.
fmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm
Grace Church
(Reformed)
BAYARD and DITHRIDGE 8TREET8 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Mlnlutor. 
3ERVICE8:Sunday School- -9 '15 A. M.Morning1 Worship-13 A. M. Christian lflndoavor7 P. M. Popular jnvonlng Sorvleon at 7'15. Sorinonn for Iload and Heart, 
Hoarty Woloome for All.
A8CENSION EPISCOPAL CHURCH 
Ellnworth Avenuo and Novillo Stroot 
DR. WYATT BROWN, Rootor 
DR. R088 R. CALVIN, Annlatant.
Sunday Services, 8:00 A. M., 11:00 A. M. and 8:00 P. M.Colloco Mon's Bible Class at 10:00, 
led by Dr. Calvin.
All 8tudento Gonulnoly Wolcomo.
Yes. Just a plebe who wears a hat sir, 
Black socks and black cravat sir,
uauiiinniiiiiinuiiiiiil
Candidates for Puppet Staff
Any student wishing to try for a position on either 
editorial, business or art staff of Puppet report to Puppet 
Office (rear of military department) Wednesday afternoon 
at 5 oclock.
The Plebes started organizing Oc
tober 8 when a class meeting was 
held called by Lake, who gave them 
some ideas on Tech organization.
The following Plebes were nomi
nated, election to be held later:
Pres.Chrow, Williard, Keough, 
Lubin.
First Vice Pres.Hertz.
Second Vice Pres.Misses Dolzell, 
Rogers, Schell.
SecretaryHartz, Cunningham, McKendricks.
TreasurerTurner, Lees, Schoughnessy.
----------O----------MENORAH SOCIETY.
The service of R. Z. Virgin, pre
viously in charge of mine extension 
work in West Virginia, has been en
gaged by the co-operative department 
of mining engineering of the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology. He has ad
vanced through the ranks from a 
miner to a successful mine superin
tendent. At Carnegie Tech, Mr. Vir
gin will specialize in, and teach all 
subjects dealing with bituminous coal 
mining.
--------------------
Announcement has been made of 
the engagement of Miss Mary Arm
strong of West Newton, to Mr. 
Charles L. Yost of Harrisburg. Mr. 
Yost graduated from the Division of 
Industries, School of Machinery Pro
duction, in the class of 1918.
NOTICE
All Tartan 
handed in by 
g Fridays.

SffllMIIIIIHIllUHllllllllllllllllll
news must 
4:30 P. M.
be
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
Shady and Northumberland Avonuon Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. Prouching Services, 11:00 A. M. and 8:00 P. M.Young Pooploa Service, 7.00 P. M. Brief and .Warm-Hearted Messages. A cordial welcome to all.
BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN 
CHURCH 
Bellefield and Fifth Avenues 
Rev.Robert MacGowan, D. 
M inister.
D.,
Preaching Services 11 and
Sunday school at 10.
Christian Endeavor at 7. 3
We want the Tech boys to at- *5 
tend our services and learn to *5 
know us as the congregation of o 
Friendly People. A hearty 
welcome awaits you. 5
ST. PAULS CATHEDBAL
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.
Masses: 6:30, 8:00, 9:00,
11:00 A. M. on Sundays 
Days.Vespers on Sundays at 7:30 P. M. 
Pew 68, *r,AA''' f'"' s
dents.
0:00 and 
and Holy
Middle Aisle, for Tech StuThe Menorah Society will hold its 
first meeting of the year Friday, Oc
tober 17, at 8:15 p. m. at the Temple 
Iiodef Shalom, Fifth and Morewood 
avenues. The principal business of 
the meeting will be the election of of
ficers and the outlining of a program 
for the current year. The Society 
cordially invites all the new Jewish
pililMiMililllllllttlllllllfllAIII*^
COME TO THE YOUNG MENS CLASS
First Baptist Church
Bellefield and Bayard Street
Every Sunday at 10 A. 
Dr. F. T. GAI.PIN, Tene:M.icher
^

---------------------------------------------------

Tech vs.CTHE TARTANWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1919.
aaaaagaaip
"round soft drink
for college men, bust* 
ness men, professional 
men, men of sports 
baseball, football, golf, 
tennis, shooting, riding. 
For everybody, every
where, the year round, 
Bevo is hale refresh
ment for wholesome 
thirst  an invigorating 
soft drink. Ideal for the 
athlete or the man in 
physical or mental train
inggood to train on 
and gain on. Healthful 
and appetizing. It must 
be ice cold.
lje(jHare(nl 
INE cseo(
MARKTRADEWM. DEMUTH &M CO.. NEW YORK
WORLDS LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES
WRIGLEY5
5
c a package
before the war
5
c a package
during the war
5
c a packageNOW
THE FLAVOR LASTS 
SO DOES THE PRICE!
NOMINATIONS
President 
Curtis 
Jordy 
Unsicher 
Carney 
Vice President 
Burdock 
Aimes 
Wolf 
Kime 
Skyrm 
Secretary 
Stevenson 
T. Collins 
P. I. Smith 
Treasurer 
Cassidy 
Henderson 
Wade 
Science Senate 
Mills 
Thomas 
Cunningham 
Kilburn 
Pensky
Poes raven cjuoth, ..ever more," 
but when the idea of our existence 
was first conceived, College professors 
and mining men, shook their heads 
sadly and said, Never before.
And so, were new. It is the first 
time in the history of this old world 
of ours, that twenty-two men all of 
whom have had at least two years 
practical experience in coal mines, 
have been brought together at an in
stitution of this type, for the purpose 
of learning how to mine coal.
Being new has both its advantages 
and disadvantages, for instance, the 
total lack of sophomore in our course 
compels us to introduce ourselves, 
Therefore we proceed.
We are the men who are here for 
the purpose of taking the new twoyear co-operative course in coal min
ing.
This course as you probably know, 
is supported and directed through an 
'agreement between Carnegie Tech 
and the United States Bureau of 
Mines, and is backed by the Pcnn'sylvania coal operators.
| And now since we are formally in
troduced to our fellow students, per
mit us, to extend to you our heartiest 
greeting, and to.state that Carnegie 
Tech can depend on our little organi
zation for its hearty support in pro
moting any or all of the student ac
tivities which fall within its scope. We 
thank you. (Signed):
Walter W. Woods, Pres., 
Harry Bradbury, vice pres., 
Robert P. Scullin, Secy, 
Fred Marietta, Treas.
FOR HIE COMING YEAR
The Avo Club held its first meeting 
of the year on Friday, October 10. It 
was decided that changes must be 
made in the constitution because of 
the new four-year course in the Di
vision of Industries. The committee 
appointed to make the changes were 
Mr. Ileddaers, Mr. Cousino, Mr. Garfogra. It was also decided to hold 
a smoker on Edison Day, October 21, 
in honor of the Freshmen in the Elec
tric Equipment and Construction De
partment. The committee in charge 
of the smoker are Mr. Culin, Mr. 
Grieb, Mr. Copeland. The officers of 
the Club for the 'year are President, 
Mr. Guyton; vice-president, Mr. Coulin; secretary, Mr. Johnson; Treas
urer, Mr. Mayor; publicity manager, 
Mr. Crothers.
PLEBES ENTERTAINED.
Wednesday afternoon the Service 
Class of M. M. entertained the plebes 
in the Recreation Hall. The party 
was held to allow the freshmen to 
become better acquainted with the 
seniors. The party lasted till about 
six oclock. No mean feature of the 
entertainment were the refreshments 
without which no party is complete. 
To further friendliness between the 
two classes each senior invites a fresh
man to lunch once a week.
The sophomores are planning a 
dance for the plebes to be held Oc
tober the 24, in the Union. Many of 
the freshmen have already accepted 
the invitation.
BIG SEASON AHEAD FOR
TECH MUSICAL CLUBS.
(Concluded from page 1.) 
surprise at our various big concerts 
as a demonstration of Techs musical 
prowess as well as engineering skill, 
Mayview, no doubt, will bo the first 
appearanco of the you 'as usual, 
following which is a schedule of local 
conceits and several trips of length. 
A tentative schedule will bo announc
ed later.
All in all, the executive stall* is \nticipating the most successful srason 
for the Clubs that they have ever had.
SOPHOMORE SCIENCE SCHOOL
TECI-I LOSES HARD FOUGHT
CONTEST TO W. & J.
(Continued from page 1.)
left tackle for four yards. Eielson 
punted to Levy. He returned four 
yards, being tackled by Loucks on the 
14-yard line.
First period over.
W. & J. 0, Tech 0.
Second Period
Loomis gained 4 yards at W. & J.s 
left side. Marshall was tackled for 
no gain by Eielson at W. & J.s left 
end. Moons punt was short and gas 
grounded by one o fhis own men on 
the Tech 45-yard line.
Erickson ran through a large hole 
at Techs right tackle for eight yards. 
On a cross buck Smith hit the other 
side of the line for 4 yards and first 
down. Brenkert ran outside Techs 
right tackle for 10 yards and first 
down. Eielson ran through center to 
5. On a cross buck Smith added 3. 
Eielson and Brenkert in two trys fail
ed to make the distance, Tech taking 
the ball on downs on its 5-yard line.
A play i nthe line by Marshall got 
Tech 4 yards. Loomis kicked from 
back of his goal line to Erickson, who I 
returned to the Tech 30-yard line, I 
where he was spilled by Baldwin. 
Erickson lost 5 yards in an attempt at 
Techs left end. Smith drove over 
the line for five. Eielson ran outside 
Techs left tackle for 9 yards*
A driving rain began to fall at this 
period, almost obscuring the gridiron.
Erickson plunged through Techs 
left guard for first down on the Tech 
19-yard line. Eielson twisted through 
the line for 4 yards.
Carey substituted on Carnegie Tech 
for McCleon. Erickson sprinted 
around Carnegie Techs left end to the 
5-yard line behind a stone wall of 
intei'e'ierence.
IVielson hit Techs left tackle for 
two. Brenkert was stopped at center
hut turned and skirted. Techs left 
t ickle to the Tech one-yard line.
Oji a cross buck Smith hit Techs 
left tackle for a touchdown.
ScoreW. & J., 6; Tech, 0.
Carrolls punt out to Erickson was 
grounded. No try for goal.
ScoreW. & J., 6; Tech, 0.
Gaibisch kicked oif for W. & J. 
Loomis caught the ball and was down
ed on Techs 34-yard line.
Brumwasser substituted on Tech for 
Loomis.
Brumwasser carried the ball twice 
for a gain of 6 yards, but Godden 
recovered for Tech for a gain of three 
yards.
W. & J. took .the ball on downs when 
Brumwasser failed to gain.
Tannery substituted on Tech for 
Roberts.
Smith hit Techs left tackle for 6, 
Erickson fumbled but recovered for no gain.
Time was called for the first half 
with the ball in W. & J.s possession 
on Techs 36-yard line.
ScoreW. & J., 6; Tech, 0.
Third Period
The W. & J. lineup remained intact.
No changes on Carnegie Tech.
Garbisch kicked oil' for W. & J. 
Godden caught the ball and returned 
nine yards to the Tech 39-yard line. 
Baldwin dodged three W. & j. tacklers 
skirting W. & J.s right end for eight 
yards. Stein plunged through and 
threw Brumwasser for a three yard 
loss. Brumwasser fumbled. Tech re
covered for no gain on its 45-yard line.
Baldwin was hurt in the play, Rus
sell taking his place.
Moon punted to the W. & J. 19- 
yard line. Eielson immediately punt
ed to Levy, who was downed on the 
Carnegie Tech 49-yard line, being 
thrown in his tracks by Carroll and 
Loucks. Running from a kick forma
tion, Marshall skirted W. & J.s leftend for 9 yards. Russel dodged two 
tacklers and skirted the W. & J, right 
end for 8 yards, making the first Tech 
first down in the game. Carroll broke 
through and threw Marshall for a 2- 
yard loss at the W. & J. left end.
Brumwasser found a stone wall at 
center but gained a yard. A lateral 
pass, Levy to Russell, gained 2 yards. 
W. & J. was penalized 5 yards for offside.
Behind rugged interference Mar
shall went around W. & J.s left end 
for five yards. Carroll stopped Brum
wasser in his tracks for no gain. 
Brumwasser was hurled back for a 
three-yard loss on the next play at 
W. & J.s left tackle. Marshall made 
two yards on the next play at the W. 
& J. left end and W. & J. took the 
j ball on downs on its 25-yard line.
Smith made a yard at Techs left 
tackle. Erickson jammed through 
right guard for four. Smith registered 
two more making fourth down and 
three yards to gain. Eielson punted 
out of bounds on Techs 38-yard line.
Russell fumbled a pass from Mar
shall. The ball rolled back and was 
recovered by Russell for a loss of 25 
yards. Erickson caught Moons punt 
in midfield and outsprinted the entire 
Tech team for a touchdown.
ScoreW. & J., 12; Tech, 0.
Stein kicked goal.
ScoreW. & J., 13; Tech, 0.
Garbisch kicked off for W. & J. 
Marshall caught the ball on the 20- 
yard line returning 17 yards. Russell 
slipped outside W. & J.s right end for 
four yards. Smith bringing him down. 
Brumwasser hit center for two. Levy 
oil a quick play through center made
a yard. Brumwasser was checked at 
center for no gain. W. & J. taking the: 
ball on downs on the Tech 45-yardl 
line.
Eielson hit Techs right taclde for 
four yards. Stein was offside, W. & J.j 
drawing a five-yard penalty.
Eielson hit Techs right side for 
eight yards. Smith reeled off five 
more at the same place. Eielson slip-' 
ped and was thrown for a iivp.-y^r:1 
loss. The ball was brought back and 
Tech wa spenalized five yards for off
side.
Saylor substituted on Tech for 
Flannery. Jisa on W. & J. for Smith.
Brenkert cai-ried the ball for five 
yards at Techs left end. On a cross 
buck Erickson hit the left side of 
Techs line for seven yards and first 
down.
Fourth Period
Smith went back in for Jisa on W.
& J.
On a cross buck at Techs right 
tackle Smith made two yards. Erick
son gained three more at the other| 
side. Saylor broke through and toss
ed Eielson for a loss of three yards. 
Tech broke up a W. & J. forward pass] 
taking the ball on downs on Techs 
22-yard line.
Loucks plunged through and drop
ped Marshall for a loss of six yards.i
Erickson fumbled Moons punt but 
ran back and picked it up and returned 
35 yards to the Tech 32-yard line. 
Eielson lost a yard in the line. W. &
J. fumbled. Tech recovering on its 
own 32-yard line. Brumwasser was, 
tossed for a loss of a yard by Temple
ton. Russell lost two more in a try 
at W. & J.s right end.
On a fake kick Marshall failed to 
gain at W. & J.s left side, W. & J. 
taking the ball on downs on Techs; 
40-yard line. Smith fumbled but re
covered for a five-yard loss. Behind 
splendid interference Erickson circled 
Techs right end for 16 yards and first down.
Smith made a slight gain but the 
ball was brought back, both teams be
ing offside. Pennel substituted on 
Tech for Wittmer, and Henderson for 
Carey. Eielson skirted Tech right end 
for seven yards. On a cross buck at 
Techs left guard Smith gained a yard.
In a wide hole through Techs right 
tackle Erickson sprinted over for the 
third touchdown. Stein kicked goal.
ScoreW. & J., 20; Tech, 0.
Kirk substituted on W. & J. for 
Brenkert.
Garbisch kicked off for \y. & J. 
Marshall returned 27 yards to the 
Tech 42-yard line.
Brumwasser was hurt but remained 
in the game.
Three W. & J. tacklers threw Rus
sell for a loss of three yards. Moore 
substituted on W. & J. for Loucks.
Carnegie Tech fumbled recovering i 
of r W. & J. on Techs 40-yard line. 
Smith was dropped at Techs right guard for no gain.
Marshall regained three at W. & 
J.s left tackle.
Moon punted to Erickson. He re
turned 18 yards and fumbled. The 
ball going out of bounds and Tech ; 
recovering.
Here the game ended with ball in Techs possession.
----------0----------Dean Breed of M. M. D. interview
ed applicants for the night school 
last Friday evening. A large enroll
ment is expected.
N
INE cases out of ten, the man 
who once smokes a WD C Pipe 
becomes a life member of the W D C 
club. He cant help it, because a 
W D C is certainly a mans size smoke. 
Its as sweet and mellow as carefully 
selected French briar and expert sea
soning can make it. Not only material 
of the first water, but craftsmanship of 
the highest order, and designs that are 
most pleasingall combine to make the 
WD C Pipe a smoke of peace, content
ment and satisfaction. A mans smoke. 
Any good dealer will confirm this.
PROSPECTS ARE BRIGHT
FOR TRACK THIS YEAR
TWO YEAR GO-OPERATIVE
STUDENTS ORGANIZE
At this early date the track out- jl| 
look for the coming year is exceeding- 1 
ly promising. Already there are over 
one hundred candidates, fifty of which |||| 
are out for cross country. The coach |!|i 
ii very enthusiastic over the new ma
terial and has expressed himself as 
being very much pleased over the i j 
spirit shown. The squad will have | 
with it this year three men who were 
with Tech at the last meet we had 
with Cornell and, in addition, there 
will be several other letter men to 
form a nucleus for this years team.
The cross-country meet with Cor
nell is now practically assured. The 
plans call for our cross-country men Jl'j 
going along with the football team, j 
The race is scheduled to take place 
before the game and it will finish on 
the football field just before the game J 
begins. Other big schools are being ||| 
booked and while nothing can be nil- |l 
nounced just at present it is sufficient J 
to say that a very attractive sched- | 
ule is being completed.
Another call has been sent out for iijj 
more men so all those interested in jj 
any phase of track are urged to be j| 
out. This call is directed at the ||j 
plebes especially, because now is the 
chance to get into track work. Re- | 
port to Coach Hazel at the gym at I 
4:30 this afternoon.
----------U-----
