Pitt Inter-Collegiate 
Meet 
Saturday, May 18fflir ufaran
May Festival 
Mellon Hall 
May 17,1918. 4 p. m.
VOL. XII. NO. 31.CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAMAY 15, 1918
FIRST STUDENTS LEAVE 
FOR TRAINING CAMP
Twenty Men Depart to Re
ceive Instruction at 
Battle Creek
MAJOR RECEIVES GIFT
Led by Maj. Hilliard Lyle, mounted, 
and accompanied by a squad of mount
ed police arid two bandsone being 
that of Tech20 members of the Re
serve Officers Training Corps of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology, the 
entire membership of which turned 
out as an escort, paraded from Tech 
and through the down-town streets 
Monday afternoon before entraining 
for Camp Custer, Battle Creek, Mich., 
where they will enter an officers 
training camp.
Just before the students left Tech 
school, a large photograph of Maj. 
Lyle, handsomely framed, was present
ed to that officer on behalf of the 
special O. T. C. class to show their ap
preciation of the splendid instruction 
he had given them and their high es
teem of the officer as a soldier and a 
man.
Quite a large assemblage witnessed 
the presentation exercises and the de
parture of the candidates for commis
sions, despite the drizzling rain. Just 
before the farewell march through the 
down-town streets was commenced, 
the following telegram addressed to 
Maj. Lyle from President A. A. Hamerschlag, who is in Washington, was 
read:
. Convey to officers contingent who 
leave today my best wishes for their 
success. I am sure that they will at
tain commission ranks and be worthy 
representatives of Carnegie."
. Col. John C. W. Brooks, head of the 
military department of Tech, spoke a 
few word3 of farewell to the boys be
fore they left the Institute. He was 
unable to accompany them on their 
march through the city, being detained 
at his office by duties, but he reached 
the station before the detachment en
trained to wish them good luck and 
success. Those who left were:
Norwood J. Engle, Logan O.; Gil
bert T. Haddeus, 3547 Shadeland ave
nue, Pittsburgh; Sylvester V. Wil
liams, Lorain, O.; Paul R. Werlcing, 
Hagerstown, Ind.; Harry A. Obert, 
Erie, Pa.; Frank B. Treat, 22 Haw
thorne avenue, Crafton; Theodore A. 
Viehman, 251 Boulevard avenue, Carrick; Harold O. Clayton, Washington,
D. C.; Albert C. Baronner, Hollidaysburg, Pa.; Arthur C. Alexander, 241 
Brading avenue, Ben Avon, Pa.; Her
bert S. Yergey, Pottstown, Pa.; Frank 
C. Wire, Youngstown, 0.; Howard F. 
Smith, Northampton, Mass.; Harry D. 
Hain, Youngstown, O.; Raymond S. 
Simboli, 163 Reiter street, Pittsburgh; 
Thaddeus D. Wheeler, Evanston, 111.; 
George F. Wagner, Wheeling, W. Va.; 
James B. Serrin, Chicago; Charles W. 
Larkin, Hopewell, N. J., and H. D. 
Seaver, Cleveland.
BAND HOLDS ANNUAL 
BANQUET AND ELECTION
The annual banquet and election 
was held Tuesday evening, May 7, at 
the Seventh Avenue Hotel. About 
thirty of the band men were present 
and a very enjoyable evening was 
spent. The banquet was served at 
7:30 and was followed by the election 
of officers. The following are the of
ficers for next year:
Manager, J. Rowe, Science;
Business Manager, R. B. Johnson, In
dustries ;
Secretary-Treasurer, H. A. B. Bliss, 
Science;
Librarian, C. C. Gens, Industries.
A small company of colored (?) com
edians proved very entertaining by 
giving numerous comic songs and dia
logues during the evening.
Manager Smith acted as toastmaster 
and introduced Director E. F. Sullivan 
as the principal speaker of the even
ing. "Sully reviewed the progress of 
the Band from its very beginning, and 
also outlined some of the work which 
will be undertaken next year.
Short speeches were then made by 
the newly-eleCted officers, and were 
followed in turn by the other mem
bers of the Band. Many original and 
valuable suggestions were made as to 
how the Band may be bettered next 
year.
It was an evening long to be remem
bered and one which will go down in 
the history of the Band as one of its 
big events.
*J* *i* *i* *i* *v* *5* ** ** * * *5* **" ? *
The M. M. C. S. May Festival * 
will be held Friday on.the rear : 
lawn of Mellon Hall at 4 oclock * 
instead of 2:30 as announced in *: 
TTartan last week. Tickets * 
may b3bad~ai the gate.
* ^ *r ^
RED CROSS CAMPAIGN 
BEGINS EARLY AT TECH
Date Set Ahead On Account 
of Early Close of 
School
PARADE ON SATURDAY
?Atals ion AnerSfdnPSNN/NGTON OUT AT THE PLATE..
INDUSTRIES ASSEMBLY 
ELECTS NEW OFFICERS
At the regular Assembly of the stu
dents of the School of Applied Indus
tries, last Wednesday, J. W. Bateman, 
was -elected president for the coming 
school year, with Graham, vice presi
dent, J. Rudisill, secretary, and H. C. 
Hammand, treasurer.
The Assembly today was in charge 
of the Middle men and proved very in
teresting and something different than 
those of late.
SUMMER CAMP AT TECH 
FOR RESERVE OFFICERS
An R. O.. T. C. camp will be held at 
Tech for six weeks this summer, be
ginning about the middle of June. 
Those who complete this course will 
be commissioned as reserve officers. 
A fee of $15 will be charged those who 
enroll in this camp; a note can be 
made for this tuition by making ar
rangements with the bureau of recom
mendations. Another R. O. T. C. camp 
will be opened at .Plattsburg on Jun4
3, and last four weeks, at the end of 
which commissions as reserve officers 
will be given. Railroad fares will be 
paid to and from Plattsburg and 
while there candidates will receive the 
.pay of a private.
Anyone interested in either of these 
camps will do well to see Major Lyle 
at once.
TEAMIN LAST THREE GAMES PLAYED
Bethany and Collegians Take Measure of Skibos
The old jinx followed /the baseball 
team during the past week when three 
defeats were sustained,in four days. 
Bethany took Jimmy Dohertys 
teams measure to the tune of 12 to 9, 
and 11 to G. The Pittsburgh Collegians 
won by the score of G to 4 in a fast 
contest.
Bethany won from Carnegie Tech 
Wednesday, at Bethany, 12 to 9 in a 
weird but exciting game. Tech scored 
six runs in the first and Bethany six 
in the second. Bethany led by two runs 
in the fourth, but was caught in the 
fifth. Bethany scored four more in 
the seventh and sewed it up. Score:
BETHANY.A. R. H. A. E.
.... 42020
Marshall, p.............___ 51230
Price, m...................___ 50101
Jordan, c..................___ 51.010
Hoover, 2.................. 31021
.... 42211
McConnell, 1___.... 32I10
Robinson, 3..........___ 33220
Perry, If............................. 00000
Latto, If...................___ 40102
129126
TECH.A. R. H. A. E.
Stevenson, 1 ................... 4 2 0 0 1
Coobs, 3 ............................. 3 2 0 1 1
Doherty, c.......................... 4 1 2 3 2
Lynn, r................................. 3 1 0 2 2
Oakley, r.............................. 3 2 1 0 0
Gretzler, m.-p................... 4 1 2 0 1
Good. 2............................... 4 0 0 3 0
Henman, If......................... 4 0 0 2 0
Petch, p............................... 4 0 0 0 0
Mauer, If.............................. 1 0 0 0 0
Bates, If.............................. 2 0 0 0 0
Totals ............................. 3G 9 5 11 7
Bethany ................. 060200 4 012
Tech ........................ 6 0 0 0 2 0 1 0 9
Game called in eighth to allow Teoli 
to get train.
Tech opened its baseball season at 
home Thursday afternoon and suf
fered a 6-to-4 defeat by the Pittsburgh 
Collegians, who also started their 
nineteenth campaign. It was an ovenly-contested. game and the crowd had 
something to yell about in most every 
inning on account of the good catches 
(Continued on Page* Four.)
fi'j
SCIENCE PLEBES HOLD 
LIBERTY LOAN BRIVE
On Saturday night the Science 
Plebes held a dance, the proceeds of 
wljjteh will help to pay for the Liberty 
Bond which they bought. Much credit 
is due to the committee, of which R. 
F. Leet was chairman, for the success 
of the dance. A moonlight dance was 
put in; and this was done with the aid 
of an 'automobile searchlight: It was 
quite a novel idea and well applauded. 
The same light came into prominence 
again about 11:45, when the Sophs 
pulled out the fuses and left the hall 
in darkness. There was no excite
ment, as everyone thought it was 
merely another moonlight dance.
The Union was prettily decorated 
with the allied flags and the second 
landing cosily arranged with couches 
and easy chairs. Punch was served all 
evening and music furnished by 
Riehls orchestra.
BRAMA DEPARTMENT IN
This one-act Russian episode was 
tried out last week by students of 
the Department of Drama, with a 
measure of sucess. It is a grey little 
play, dealing with a mothers self-sac
rifice and devotion to a worthless and 
illegitimate sonwhom, in imagina
tion he had crowned and sainted," 
believing him dead. But he returns 
and spoils the dream.
Miss Alice Guthrie gave a very 
convincing characterization of the 
mother, Praskovya Petrovna. Mr. 
Theodore Viehman as Asteryi Ivanovitch, the lodger, made that charac
ter live, while George Traberts Foma 
Illyitch had a very foreign flavor. His 
accent became a valuable asset in this 
play. Wm. Mulligan's old stone
mason as cleverly done while David 
Gaither as the stranger visualied 
the Siberian exile and his hunted ways. 
Miss Riccards made the most of Var
vara" the servant. There is little ac
tion and much conversation. , The Rus
sian atmosphere wa3 palpable.
THISTLE
TO HOLDERS OF THISTLE RECEIPTS:
Owing to causes which are entirely beyond the control of 
the 1918 Thistle Board, it will be impossible to have the Thistle 
ready for distribution before the close of school. This will 
necessitate mailing the books. The following plan has been 
worked out: Holders of Thistle receipts will bring them to the 
Student Activities office on the top floor of the Central Build
ing, at the times indicated below, and pay the remainder due on 
their Thistle, for which a new receipt will be issued. To cover 
the cost of packing and postage, a charge of 25 cents per book 
will have to be collected at this time also. At the time of 
making this payment, the address to which the books shall be 
sent, will be taken. Remember, the stub in your athletic ticket 
book is worth 25 cents.
Monday.........................................11:30 to 12:30
Tuesday......................................... 11:30 to 1:30
Wednesday...................................11:30 to 12:30
Thursday.......................................11:30 to 12:30
1:30 to 2:30
Friday............................................ 8:30 to 9:30
11:30 to 12:30
RED CROSS WORKERS M. M. C. S. SOPHOMORES 
TO HOLD MASS MEETING, ELECT JUNIOR OFFICERS
TRACK TEAM WINS DUAL 
MEET FROM WESTMINSTER
Coach Eyman's track team won an 
other victory in a dual meet with 
Westminster, Saturday afternoon, by 
the score of 76 to 50. The entire team 
t showed well that Tech is represented 
by a well balanced track and field ag
gregation this spring.
Captain Ellerton, Schmidt and Dav
idson exhibited their usual good form; 
but there were several surprises 
sprung. Poter Paul Sacks came from 
behind and won the two-mile run han
dily, but unexpectedly. Jazz Miller, 
who only joined the squad last Week, 
had little difficulty in winning the ham
mer throw. Cooky" Woodward and 
Hamman tied for first place In the polo 
vault, both duplicating their Dennison 
performance of 10 foot.
Ferguson, however, was the most 
phenomenal performer and aftor win
ning the mile succeeded in defeating 
his toam-male, Schmidt, in the 8S0- 
yard run. The .summaries:
100-yard dashLoghry, Westmin
ster, won; Llngonfelsor, Tech, second; 
Russell, Tech, third.
220-yard dash....Loghry, Westminster,
won; Russell, Tech, second; Llngenfelser, Tech, third.
440-yard dashSchmidt, Toch, won; 
Atkinson, Westminster, second; Lingenfelsor, third.
Half-mile run  Ferguson, Tech, 
won; Schmidt, Tech, socond; Atkin
son, Westminster, third.
One-mllo runFei'guaon, Tech, won;
(Continued on Page Three)
ANNUALSOPHOMOREf HOP 
WAS SUCCESSFUL AFFAIR
The Sophomores of the Four Schools 
held their annual hop in the Union last 
Thursday night and It proved a very 
successful affair. A very good crowd 
attended, although not too many to 
make the hall crowded. Added excite
ment was furnished by the Plebes, 
about fifty of whom paraded about the 
campus giving their cheers and yells. 
They burned red-fire and built a large 
bon-fire on the fill. Tlioy tried to make 
the appearance of a raid, but the 
Sophs were not worried and the Plebes 
retired in good order. Dancing con
tinued until 1 oclock, and during the 
dance punch and cakes were served. 
Music was furnished by News Or
chestra.
C. I. T. hopes to have another sue-1 
cessful drive when the Red Cross Aux-| 
iliary starts its Contribution Fund j 
Campaign on Monday, May 20. Every 
one of us, students and faculty, is ex
pected to do his very largest share in 
making conrtibutions, and is expected 
to make them through our own Tech 
Auxiliary. Sunday, May .19, at Syria 
Mosque, all information regarding the 
campaign will be given out. Mr. Gib
son, vice chairman of the Red Cross, 
and other speakers yet unannounced, 
will tell us of the great cause, and how 
w'e can help most. Though primarily 
a mass meeting for the workers of the 
Red Cross Campaign, every one will 
be welcome. Try to GO, but whether 
you go or not, GIVE.
The Sophomore Class at Margaret 
Morrison held its Junior election the 
first of last week. In the first ballot 
Barbara Endres and Ruth Scott tied 
for vice president, but when a second 
vote was taken Miss Scott was elected. 
The Junior officers are:
President, Myrtle Goe;
Vice President, Ruth Scott;
Secretary, Elizabeth Buchele;
Treasurer, Lucy Hart;
Social 6halrman, Elizabeth Kelly;
This,le Representatives,
Irene Deneke,
Mary Cummings,
Helen Durst.
Knit! Knit! Knit! in time of peace 
prepare for war. In summer-time knit 
socks for winter wear.
SPIRITED CELEBRATION 
OF UALIFICATION DAY
Never before in the history of M. M. 
,C. S. has. such an exciting Qualifica
tion Day taken place as that of last 
Friday. Perhaps is was due to the 
war spirit in the air, or perhape the 
undeniable pep of the Plebes, or that 
of the Sophomores. However, anyone 
within,a large radius of the school on 
last Friday afternoon must have heard 
the wild war whoops and yells of the 
Plebes, as their faces' were painted 
green and their hair braided in mani
fold pigtails. All this happened in the 
building; the weather seemed with the 
Sophs, as it rained only long enough 
to force the PlebCs to remain and be 
fixed up and cleared in time for the 
rest of the tortures. Then the Plebes, 
rebellious, It must be admitted, but all 
good sports, were marched out Into 
the courtyard, where they said what 
they thought of the Sophomore Class. 
XI a husky Soph stood behind each 
Plebe, It Is possible that the opinion 
was prejudiced. Just as the bell for 
afternoon classes rang', the Xlebes 
were bowing to a 1920 written in chalk 
on the sidewalk. What happened when 
the painted and pigtalled lot entered 
the spick and span cooking room Is 
whispered among the Plebes, but not 
told for publication.
A great net of mercy drawn 
through an ocean of unspeakable 
pain."
The Red Cross, the miracle of the 
age and the most triumphant instance 
of organized compassion in the his
tory of the world, is about to ask the 
nation for another hundred million 
dollars. The Red Cross in this country 
alone has twenty-two million raerubers; it must have more. It has called 
for great sums of money, and has re
ceived them; it must have more. It 
must have everything it needs to carry 
on its work,members, money, time 
and personal sacrifice to the very 
limit.
The second nation-wide Red Cross 
War Fund Campaign will take place 
between May 18 and May 27, inclusive. 
Of the total amount desired, Pitts
burgh has been asked to give $4,000,- 
000. The managers of the Pittsburgh 
campaign have enlisted and organized 
an army of workers, and made all 
preparations for a successful drive.
The plans of the local committee 
are, briefly, as follows: The men's
teams will work all week, May 18 to 
27, while the teams for firms, corpora
tions and industries from May 20 to
24. A house-to-house canvass by the 
branches and auxiliaries will take 
place from May 23 to 27.
The Carnogle Institute of Tech
nology, bocanso of the early closing 
datos of the four schools, has boon re
quested to open Its campaign early, 
so as to obtain bofore the commence
ments are over subscriptions from 
faculty, students and other associated 
groups. On the 20th, members of the 
auxiliary will distribute leallots and 
solicit at the buildings under construc
tion. On the 21st they will solicit sub
scriptions of members of the faculty, 
students, and those In the administra
tive offices.
Tho school auxiliary hopes that' all 
associated with Toch may make their 
subscriptions to tho Rod Cross 
through the local branch. Here, 
as, olsowhoro during the campaign 
plodgos for subscriptions will be 
accepted payable until the first 
of October next. Liberty Bonds, 
whether paid In full or not, will bo ac
cepted In payment of subscriptions. 
The local solicitors will bo supplied 
with the usual certificates, badgos 
and window flags; and If thoso flags 
are placed In tho windows thoro will 
bo no further soliciting In tho houseto-house canvass which begins May 23. 
Naturally,.wo are all anxious that tho 
Tech auxiliary should have splendid 
showing, and by entering our sub
scription here wo make this possible.
(Continued on Page Four.)
MUSICAL CLUBS FINISH 
SUCCESSFUL SEASON
The members of the Musical Clubs 
will end the season this year by a ban
quet to be given at the German Club, 
Wednesday, May 15, at 8 p. m. At 
this time the eelction of officers for 
the coming year will take place.
The clubs have worked under great
er difficulty this season than ever be
fore in their history, but despite this 
fact the members have thrown them
selves Into the work with such vigor 
that they have accomplished what 
seemed the impossible at the first of 
the season. Besides finishing with.one 
of the best financial records the clubs 
has ever made, the quality of the con
certs given have been so high that the 
clubs are assured return engagements 
for the coming season almost without ' 
exception.
It is due to the faithfulness of the in
dividual members that the season has 
been such a great success.
PLEASING CONCERT BY 
DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC
The first in a series of three concerts 
by the students of the department of 
music, was given in the theater of tho 
School of Applied Design on Sunday 
evening, May 12, before a large and 
enthusiastic audience.
It proved to bo one of the best bal
anced and most finished programs of 
the year, a credit to all concerned.
Tho opening number was J. V. 
O'Briens arrangement of. the Nation
al anthem for full orchestra. This was 
followed by a double number Massenets "Prelude" and Mozarts Allegro" 
(Continued on Page Four.)
00017678
^

---------------------------------------------------

Page TwoTHE TARTAN
rWednesday, May 15, 1918
Published every Wednesday by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute 
of 4echnology.
Entered in the postoflice of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
Yoarly, $1.50
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
5c the copyCanada, $1.75
Phone Ililand 9392 
Phone Sclienley 2200-J
...................Harold R. Titus
EDITORIALEdith Bradon
Managing Editors 
L. E. Emorich 
O. It. Olrnstead 
Assistant Managing Editor 
F. I. Smith 
School Editors
M. M. C. S..........................Salome Stamm
Design ...................................J. M. Walcott
IndustriesW. D. Hall 
Science
NightJulius Foster 
Athlctic Editor 
H. H. Blau 
Staff Photographer 
William M. Myler, Jr.
M. M. C. S. Assistants 
Marion Bach
FranceB Roberts 
Hazel Shaffer 
Margaret Sondheim 
Helen Young
Other Assistants
Ellen Crowe 
I. Sisaman
BUSINE88 
Advertising Manager 
Charles H. Todd 
Assistant 
M. I. Cohen
Circulation Manager
C. L. De Prefontaine 
Assistant 
C. J. Livingstone
TARTAN OFFICE............................................................................................Room 162, Design
HourB2:00 to 4:00 Mondays.
4:30 to 6:00 Wednesdays and Thursdays.
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the Managing Editor for the make up.
All business communications should he sent to the Business Manager. 
Any delay in delivery of, this paper or change of address should be reported 
at once.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the signature to be withheld if desired.
All news items must be in the student postoflice, Central Building, before 
noon on Mondays. 28^sWl'
ONCE MORE
Owing, to the fact that Lawrence K. Paquin, Editor-in-Chief of 
The Tartan, left yesterday for the Officers Training Camp, the entire 
responsibility and charge of publishing of the last two issues has been 
shifted in the manner outlined in the article of last week dealing with 
the new staff. Mr. Paquin deserves much credit for his work and his 
departure is regretted by all who know how willingly and earnestly 
he assumed his duties.
This illustrates the necessity and the opening for new men. There 
is no reason why many more should not try out for positions on the 
staff. The paper cannot be run on a one-man basis and it is hoped 
that men, who think they have ability, report immediately. Think it 
over before it is too late.
ACCURATE KNOWLEDGE OF THE WAR
Criticism and discussion of governmental policies in wartime may 
be valid or they may be harmful. It all depends upon the judgment 
and information possessed by the individual who does the talking.
The much, exercised American prerogative of free speech has 
found and will continue to find a vast field for its outlet in war sit
uations. College students and college professors-r-the same as every
one else^re talking about the war. Nor is it wrong that they 
should be. They may be, it is true, great offenders if they take a 
stand on grounds of ignorance or misinformation. But college men 
and women may just as truly be powerful defenders if they labor in 
the promotion of accurate knowledge about the war,defenders of 
I he Allies, ol! their own country, and of the colleges as places of 
learning.
There is nothing more ludicrous or pathetic than to hear a man 
argue about some groat question of the World 'War about which he 
possesses absolutely no definite information. True, even the highest 
officials and greatest thinkers cannot toll us definitely of the future. 
But what knowledge there is available of the past and present should 
be a constant field of inquiry for the college man.
The United States government, fully realizing the importance of 
the dissemination of corroot knowledge, has, through the Committee 
on Public Information, issued the War Information Series of pamph
lets. These handbooks are issued because of a belief that this war 
is not to be won by an established doerine nor by an official theory, 
but by an enlightened, opinion based upon truth, and furthermore 
that the facts of history and life are the only arsenals to which 
Americans need resort in order to defend the justice of their cause.
Men and women of the colleges, it is up to you to get busy and 
know the facts before you tell what you would do if you were 
President!  *
The. exhibition of class spirit shown by the Plcbes the night be
fore Qualification Day was anything but gratifying. Nevertheless, 
they have been received into the Carnegie elan, and it is hoped that 
they understand, now that they have had time to think it over, that 
such an action was not only uncalled for, but also beneath the dignity 
of even the least dignified of the classes of Tech.
RELATIVE TO ENLISTMENT
The following memorandum, relative to the enrollment of col
lege graduates or under-graduates in the United States Naval Reserve 
Force is forwarded for your information. Students desiring to be 
enrolled should apply at the nearest Navy Recruiting Station.
(Signed) M. S. TUCKER, 
Lieutenant U. S. N. R. P.
Officers' Class. No man will be: considered for this Class who will 
not be twenty-one upon the date ,of completion of the Class. The 
Officers Material Class lasts for two months, and the classes start 
June 16th, August 16th, etc. Those who successfully complete the 
course in the Officers Class will be given a District competitive exam
ination and if qualified, will be commissioned for District service, 
training with the Fleet or training Annapolis.
3. No man, college or otherwise, can enroll unless he volunteers 
for general service. No promise whatsoever can be made relative to 
rank or rating, which will eventually be given, or the locality in 
which the man will serve, either for training or actual service.
(Signed) F. C. STARR.
U. S. Naval Reserve Flying Corps.
Civilians desiring to enroll in the Naval Reserve for subsequent 
training and commissioning in the Naval Reserve Flying Corps should 
request application blanks from the Supervisor, Naval Reserve Flying 
Corps, Bureau of Navigation, Navy Department, "Washington, D. C.
To be eligible for enrollment an applicant must be an American 
citizen, and must be between twenty and thirty years of age. Educa
tional qualifications are given special consideration. Sufficient edu
cation is required to understand the technical course of lectures given 
during training.
After an application has been returned to the Supervisor, with 
the required letters or recommendation, the applicant is notified of 
the. approval or disapproval of his application. If approved, he is 
directed to report at a designated place for physical examination, and 
if found qualified, is there enrolled in the Naval Reserve, Class 4 for 
5, as Seaman Second Class.
As soon as practicable, after enrollment, a man is given active 
duty orders to report to the Receiving Ship at Boston for further 
transfer to the ground school at the Massachusetts Institute of Tech
nology, for a ten weeks theoretical course. This is followed by ap
proximately three months flight training at one of the Naval Air 
Stations.
Candidates are given a rigorous physical examination to deter
mine their fitness for this service. Particular attention is paid to 
eye-sight; normal vision of 20/20 in each eye, uncorreeted by glasses, 
is required.
Before a candidate may be enrolled he must present to the En
rolling Officer a certificate by his Local Draft Board to the effect 
tha his class and order number are so low that he is not within the 
current quota of his Local Board.
Upon, the satisfactory completion of a mans training, he is ex
amined and if found qualified, is enrolled in Class 5, the Naval Re
serve Flying Corps, and is commissioned.
If a man fails in his training course, he is given the choice of a 
discharge from the Naval Service, or of being transferred in such rat
ing as he may be found qualified to hold in the Naval Reserve for 
general service.
Blanks can be secured at Registrars Office, Central Building.
TRENCH COUGH REMEDY 
TO BE DISTRIBUTED
That work In the trenches of the 
campus has already seriously injured 
the throats of many of our soldiers in 
training, no one who attends general 
assembly could doubt. That the 
crudest spasms of coughing usually 
occur when the guest of 
honor is speaking is due to 
the perversity of the malady, 
rather than to the perversity of human 
nature. In these days, when the price 
of notebook paper advances while you 
are writing q;i it, and when meatless 
day in the physiology lab. is almost an 
economic necessity, we M. .M. C. S. 
girls are very thirsty, but if the cough
ing lit. assembly continues, the duty of 
our Red Cross will undoubtedly be to 
make up a war fund in ordor to dis
tribute Capsules for Chronic Cough
ing. or "Mrs. Pinkums Soothing Sy
rup" or ARSENIC, to those boys who 
cant or wont lot our soldier visitors 
apeak..
FORMER INDUSTRIES MAN 
WRITES FROM FRANCE
The following interesting letter was 
received by Mr. Leeds from J. L. Car
roll, an Industries man of 1917, and 
now serving as a corporal in the Amer
ican Expeditionary Forces:
April 19, 191S.
Dear Mr; Leeds:
1 received the two bundles of papers 
and your fine, long letter some time 
(ago. I enjoyed the papers immensely 
and your letter had a lot of good news 
that I found very interesting.
Our Company has been up within
sound of the big guns for a couple of 
months. I was sdht back about 150 
miles on a detail and have been away 
a couple of weeks. However, I expect 
to go back with the Company soon. I 
met Paul Dockstader, Sunny Kessner, 
Mazurie, Swanson, Ed. Parsons, and a 
lot. of the former Tech men in this reg
iment. They are all up front now with 
the rest of the regiment. Rodgers is 
in Paris on a permanent detail.
I don't know whether I wrote you 
about my furlough or not. I was given 
my first leave March 10, and spent 7 
days in Aix-les-Bains, Savoi, France. 
I suppose you know that Aix-les-Bains 
is the famous French summer resort 
that has been taken over by the Amer
ican Army for soldiers on leave. I was 
absent from the Company 13 days and 
spent a day and night in Lyons, which 
is the second largest city in France 
and a very beautiful city. The Y. M. 
C. A. has its headquarters in the 
Casino, which was formerly the great
est public gambling place in France. 
Needless to say, I had a fine time and 
was quite rested up when I got back 
with the Company.
The weather has been rather warm, 
with considerable rain. We are all 
glad the cold weather is over.
The 511th Engineers came in the 
other day and I was surprised to see 
Sergeant Wagner, formerly of the S. 
A. I. Brick Shop. With them also Wil
son, formerly of S'. A. I.
I suppose you know what the Boches 
have been doing lately. I only wish 
that the Americans were over here in 
enough strength to meet them with a 
big counter drive and push them back 
before they get their new lines estab
lished. We were up front when the 
drive started and we could hear the 
heavy artillery banging away, day and 
nigthEnglish and French hundredfifty-fives. The French and English 
did the greatest job of killing ever 
known before. Battery after battery
II. S. Naval Reserve.
An effort is now being; made to arouse interest at colleges in 
this vicinity. It is expected that from now on there will he a great 
many college graduates and under-graduates apply at the different 
enrolling stations for information. They can he told and must he 
told the following:
1. Any under-graduate or any class who was not twenty-one be
fore June 5th, 1917, can, upon his own request, return to college each 
fall until he completes his education. This policy is that authorized 
today by the Bureau of Navigation. It is subject to change if de
manded by a national emergency, but it is probable that it will be 
retained in force.
2. All graduates of colleges or college men, 21 years old, who 
have not finished their course, can be enrolled as seamen, second-class, 
and sent to Wissahiekon Barracks. Upon completion of their recruit 
training, which lasts from one to two months, they will be considered 
as prospective officer material and will be given an examination pro
vided they have made good in the recruit training, for entrance to the
Largest Jewelry Establishment in Pittsburgh 
THE
SOLDIERS KHAKI WATCH
THE ARTILLERY WATCH 
THE INFANTRY WATCH 
THE MARINE WATCH 
The most desirable Wrist Watch for Military Men.
Built to give satisfactory service everywhere.
Waltham movementmdium dial and handsunbreakable 
andsemi-darkened crystalmoisture-proof Khaki Band.
$22.00 to $27.00 
Visit our Art RoomSecond Floor
The HARDY & HAYES CO.
Womd St. at Oliver Ave. Pittsburgh
......................................................................................................................Mill
UNIFORMS
FOR OFFICERS
Regulation in uniforms demands a 
rigid simplicity. Yet some uniforms 
look so much better than others.
Its the quality of the fabric, the 
smartness of the fit, that makes the 
difference. It is very important for 
an officer to look his besttherefore 
you want the best uniforms to be 
had. We have them.
 S NAVY SIDRIIE CO., flir
623 Liberty Ave.,
PITTSBURGH, PA.
BELL PHONE, GRANT 3186
Largest Military Outfitters.
erz
BATTERY&
SERVICE
.NO31CC31A3RE3RO3RA3GESAS33GROTEGRCS1U31O31ECCU31CC
IBON CITY ELECTRIC CO. I
436 Seventh Ave.
All Kinds of BATTERIES j 
Repaired and Recharged j
 A National Institution::
Browning, King & Company
CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS AND HATS FOE 
MEN, BOYS AND CHILDREN 
439-441 WOOD STREET
IlillllllllillllllIIlilllllllllllllllllllilllllt
Oakland Savings & Trust Co.
THE OAKLAND BANK*
CAPITAL,
SURPLUS,
$200,000.00
$200,000.00
DEPOSITS OVER $3,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
iniiiniiniinHiiiiinHiniiiiiiiniiainiiinnniiiinnniniiiiiinnnmniiinnwinmninniniiinniinininiiiniinniiiiiiiiHiiiniiiiiinnminiiiniininnntiniiinniniginiHiHiHii'WHBBiBiHBWBniHiiniiiiniiip
of English artillery fired for four hours j 
at the close formations of advancing I 
Huns at a range of only 600 yards.; 
Can you imagine it?
I would rather be up front than be- j 
hind the lines. Just wait until we get | 
startedwe certainly will show Heinie 
a few new stunts.
Must close now, for it is time for| 
mess. I am still in fine health and i 
hope you are the same. Best regards 
to Mrs. Leeds.
Sincerely,
(Corporal) J. L. CARROLL.
Industries, 1917.
.j. .j. ?j. ?$. a ?j. i- .j. V
i* *1* 
* LOST *
! A Phi Kappa Sigma fraternity * 
* pin has been lost. Will the finder <- 
i* please return it to the office at ? 
Margaret Morrison.
** -* * ** ** *1* ** *5* *5* *5* ** *5* *i*
- - This paper has enlisted with the government in the cause of America tor the period of the war............
JcJJtJJSMSMSMSMSMSMSiSJEyciMSJDilSiSMS
Bellefield Shoe 
Repairing
FORBES STREET 
Opposite Carnegie Library.
High class work done while you 
wait.
LOW PRICES TO TECH 
STUDENTS 
Give us a trial.
SOMETHING NEW
A REAL MILITARY FOUNTAIN PEN
Made to stand the service.
Uses ink in solid form plus water. 
Programs Favors Stationery
Singer Pen & Gift Shop
JENKINS ARCADE
TYPEWRITERS 
RENTED 
Late models. 
Three months for 
$7.00. Special 
rates to students. 
Guaranteed Fac
tory Rebuilt Ma
chines.
American Writing Machine 
Company
630 PENN AVENUE 
Bell Phone Grant 1374 
Special Monarch Visible, 3 mo, $5.
\

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, May 15, 1918THE TARTANPage Thi
The following interesting letter was 
received from Dr. Blair, formerly of 
the Margaret Morrison Faculty. Ac
knowledgment of the receipt of the 
money sent by the girls is made.
Paris, France, April 7, 191S. 
My dear Miss Breed:
A letter received a few days ago 
from Dr. Walker tells me that you 
have had only one letter from me since 
I arrived. I have written at least four 
to you and one each to Phyllis MeMariln, Helen Senn and Anna McCandless. I hope they received them. If 
not, they may all turn up later, as mail 
is much delayed, I understand, for 
want of censors. In this regard they 
are getting more strict every day. An
other thingsince moving down here 
to my clinic district, I have put my let
ters in the general post, instead of tak
ing them to the American Red Cross 
headquarters and sending them in that 
mail. Often I dont get to headquar
ters for a week and I hate to carry 
letters around so long. Then, too, I 
have been known to take mail to 
headquarters and to keep it tight in 
my pocket and bring it home again, 
and in desperation put it into the near
est box. Hereafter. I shall put my let
ters only in the A. R. C. mail.
Your letters and the one of January
25, containing 860 francs from the 
girls, all reached me. The first and 
second remittance I acknowledge in 
short letters and the third at length 
to Helen Senn and Phyllis McMarlin.
My work has been flourishing. Our 
clinic has prospered so that sever'd 
weeks ago they sent me a much-need
ed assistant, and on last Wednesday 
we had to define the limits of the dis
trict from which we would receive pa
tients. Now we have a nurses aid 
acting as clerk, three nurses and two 
doctors attached to the clinic. We 
started in the middle of January with 
one doctor and one nurse. Our clinic 
is used as a school for demonstrating 
American methods in clinical work, 
home nursing, and social service-nurSe 
visiting, to French nurses, who are not 
as thoroughly trained as our nurses in 
America. We visit the home of every 
patient coming to the clinic, get an 
idea of her needs and the causes of 
her. illness, and in that way do .more 
for her than merely give her a little 
medicine and advice. We try to ap
proach them as friends who are con
cerned in every phase of their well
being, and to find out. if a change, 
financial aid, or medical advice is the 
pressing need. Our nurses do prac
tically district nursing, and instruc
tion of the parents in health and other, 
matters. Just now the Childrens Bu
reau of the A. R. C. is trying to send 
as many children to the country as 
possible. The French agencies are 
co-operating in this and hundreds of 
children are being sent away from the 
nerve-racking, fear-inspiring bombard
ing and raiding now going on. Many 
of our children are tubercular and as 
far as possible they are being sent to , 
Sanitariaone having been establish
ed at Plessy-Robinson, just outside 
Paris. The A. R. C. is also building a 
sanitarium at Achete for anaemic, run
down, and under-fed children, which 
is already oveT-full, but there are more 
plans in view.
What the Childrens Bureau is ac
complishing for the children of Paris 
and France is almost beyond belief. 
Over night, a plan is outgrown because 
there are so many demands upon it, . 
but it is immediately enlarged and ex
tended to meet the requirements. The 
A. R. C. seems always equal to the sit
uation. They seem to have found 
Aladdin's lamp. The French had, long . 
before, the war, every organization 
imaginable to aid the poor and sick , 
and needy. But their societies re
mained separate and unco-ordinated 
and were not collectively organized. 
When the A.,R. C. sees a new need and 
starts to supply it, it finds a French 
society has been doing the work for a 
long while with limited means and in- 1 
adequate equipment. Of course all the 
work of the A. R. C. has to he offered 
and received with infinite tact for we 
have, come to know that the French 
have done all that imagination could 
prompt for the relief of their own peo
ple, but the strain of nearly four years 
of war has exhausted their resources. 
Now they need help and co-ordination 
of effort, and moral help almost more 
than material help. This we gave 
them, too, by coming into the war. It 
is interesting to see how the French 
look up to us. You will hear very dif
ferent stories here and there, but they 1 
come from people who take a super
ficial survey of conditions, and do not 
get down to real facts. Because a few 
shop keepers nd taxi drivers try to 
beat us out of a franc or so we con
demn the whole nation. I should never 
have known the French if I hadnt had 
my clinic among them. They come in 
expecting us, apparently, to perform i 
miracles, and so often sympatetic interest does as much and more for them : 
than medicine. The children are es- j 
pecially lovely and appealing, and they 
stir ones feelings to the point of an- i 
guish in their indifference to hardship i 
and deprivation.
In our district there is no race ; 
suicide. There are many families of 
from four to eight children, and in i 
these many of the mothers work ten ] 
to twelve hours a day in munitions 
factories and the older children look ; 
after the younger oneB, the mothers ; 
doing the housework when they come 
home. One never hears a word of 
complaint. National honor and nation
al life are heritages handed down
uanFInRRST
FOR SPRING
CASCO-23/im. FHLEY,PBNVOur Styles
Arc Snappy, Smart, Stylish,Service' 
able, and Extremely Good Values!
K; Bell Schenley 389 3
I MISS OLEARY I
J (Formerly with J. E. T. Shuman) jjo 
0 DRY CLEANINGREPAIRING 1 
Ej Ladies and Mens Clothes, Car- ||j 
S pets, Rugs, Portieres. [3
||] Work Guaranteed and Turned j|j 
E| Out on Short Notice.
1 3933 FORBES STREET [
j| Oakland PITTSBURGH, PA. S]
We invite your early inspection, con
fidently believing you will find it im
possible to find a more complete and 
attractive display anywhere.
As for the actual worth in our clothing, we most 
emphatically go on record as claiming that this sea
son you cannot equa our values in any other clothing 
storelCAMERAPHONE
EAST LIBERTY
Spring and Summer Suits
with the right atmosphere and character 
at last years prices--no advances
ALL THIS WEEK
MABEL NORMAND
Joan of Plattsburg
The screen's first big patriotic comedy
W. 0. Breckon
STUDIOS
PORBK9 AND ATWOOD 8T8.
Phoneo 1603161 8chenley 
SPECIAL PRICES TO TECH 
STUDENTS
GET YOUR HAIR CUT 
----------at the----------
j|] Nearest to Tech ra
| COR. CRAIG AND FORBES |
g FRED FARGEL, Proprietor Qjis 1'^/r^JrqfiOJDirarprrgna/^rfarHJfrarfprrnnq/fq/^ji^fgjsij^f^jjjr,
507 Market St.-932 Liberty Ave, 
209 & 21 1 Smith field St.
Store Open Saturday Evenings.
Our Own Retail Stores In Akron, Cleveland, Milwaukee, Pittsburgh 
Stores), Reading, Syracuse, Wilkes-Barre, Youngstown.
A good place to get a good meal.
Meet your friends here on 
Sunday evening.
FRED SUDDEBY, Proprietor. 
CRAIG AND FORBES
CHURCHES
ST. PAULS CATHEDRAI Fifth Ave. and Craig St.
MUII5I9 (I:no, 8:00, 0:00, 10:00 und 
31:00 A. M. on Sunday uiul Holy 
Days.
Vospors on Sundays at, 7:30 P. M. 
Pow 58 Mlddlo XG8GA for Toch Students.I
 WEBER EXPRESS AND gj 
STORAGE COMPANY |
Bell Phone 239 Schenley. 
Moving, Packing and Storing || 
of Furniture and Pianos. Gen* eral Hauling Baggage to and [|
from Depots. [1
4616-18-20 HENRY STREET g
PITTSBURGH
A8CENSION EPISCOPAL CHURCH 
Ellsworth Avenue nnd Neville Street 
DR. WYATT BROWN, Rector. 
REV. E. JEFFERY JENNINGS, 
Aoslotant.
Sunday Service, 11 A. M. and 7:45 P. M.
Bible ClaHH, 10:00 A. M.
Tech students cordially welcomed.j TRANSITS AND LEVELS E
U ALL SUPPLIES FOR THE | m DRAFTING ROOM g
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
Shady nnd Northumberland Avenues 
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. 
Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M. and 8:00 P. M.
Young Peoples Service, 7:00 P. M. 
Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages*. 
A cordial welcome to all.
ROBERT B. MILLER, D. D., 
Pastor.Engineers Equipment, Instrug] ments of Precision, Blue Print | 
E] and Brown Print Papers and E 
jfj Cloths, E
1 B. K. ELLIOTT CO. |
| 126 SIXTH STREET E
Grace Church
(Reformed)
THE HOME LIKE CHURCH 
BAYARD and DITHRIDGE STREETS 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister 
SERVICES Sunday School9:45 A. M.
Morning Worship11 A. M. 
Christian Endeavor7 P. M. 
Popular Evening Services at 7:45. 
Sermons for Head and Heart. 
Hearty Welcome for All.
EAT THE MILLER WAY
Millers
Cafeteria
BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN 
CHURCH
Bellefield and Fifth Avenues 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D., 
Minister.
Preaching Services 11 and 8.
Sunday school at 10.
Christian Endeavor at 7.
We want the Tech boys to at
tend our services nnd learn to 
know us as the congregation of 
Friendly People." A hearty 
welcome awaits you.
April 10, 1918.
You see it is three days since I 
wrote the above. I have been more 
than busy, and now I want to say that 
I am going tomorrow morning at eight 
oclock to Toul and then to Nancy. I 
.am to be there a few days and about 
the middle of next week, I take up my 
new work, I don't know just where. It 
will be in a chain of villages, how
ever, and I shall be going from place 
to place in an auto fitted up as a dis
pensary. As soon as I know where I 
am to go, I shall write to you.
I hope the girls will keep on with 
their work for the children here. You 
have no idea how needy they are. i 
shall have more to tell you later, of 
greater needs perhaps than the ones 
here.
With best wishes to your mother 
and love to the girls and yourself, I am 
Very sincerely yours,
(Signed) ESTHER L. BLAIR.
RESTAURANT
FIFTH AVE. ARCADE
(SUBWAY)
tratod by one or more quotation of 
evidence taken usually from the orig
inal sources. Frequent reading refer
ences are appended to the topics, 
many of them referring to the "War 
Cyclopedia published by the Commit
tee on Public Information, of which 
Professor Harding is one of the au
thors. In addition, a selected list of 
books and magazine articles for more 
general reading is given at the close 
of each chapter.
FORBES BUILDING 
BARBER SHOP
JOHN CICERO
First Class Pompadour Hair Cutters, 
Scalp and Face Electric Massage at 
3617 FORBES STREET 
Come and try our new Sanitary System

---------------------------------------------------

y-., ru :
MARK
For uniformity 
of line or tone
T^y DIXONS^^UDEnSNL
the 7natrtcr drawing pencil "
S0r$N<ir] grade is 
absolutely true
17 degrees At all stationers
ganiiiMiM
Mellon[National
Bank
PITTSBURGH 
510-514 Smithfleld St. 
409-413 Fifth Ave. 
406-410 Oliver Ave. 
Capital - - - - $6,000,000
Resources Over 
$100,000,000
!l1!I!IQ!lll!!lll!l!lllllll!lllll!!!Illlll!!!!l![!l!!ll!!l!!!n!ljl!tll!I!l!!ll)1!IIIII1l!l1jl1|||linint
DO YOU DANCE? J
DANCING LESSONS CLASS AND PRIVATE |
Special ClasB fcr High School and College Students, Starting Mon- E 
day, October 15, at 8:00 P. M. j
JACQUES DANCING ACADEMY E
CRAIG AND FORBES BELL PHONE 
THE TARTANWednesday, May 15, 1918
5MSMSM3MSMSM3M3MS/SMSMSMSM2MSMSMS/SMSJ
OFFICERS and ENLISTED MEN i
who are here at school for a short time, and need anything in the line of Uniforms, Leggins and Hats 
will do well to visit our establishment.
We sell only regulation uniforms, at a lower 
price than you can buy them elsewhere.
Absolutely First Class In Every Respect.
We Manufacture Our Own Product.
PITTSBURGH 1IH TAILORING COMPANY
3037-40 JENKINS ARCADE, PITTSBURGH, PA.
je Four
White dresses will be worn by all the 
marchers, and the Red Cross workers 
will wear their colors. Miss Demarest 
is chairman of the committee having 
charge of our section of the parade, 
and the vice chairmen are Miss Jen
nings, of the School of Design, and 
Miss McGandless, of M. M. C. S. The 
parade will move from Ohio and Fed
eral streets, North Side, at half past 
three, next Saturday.
To tell the story of the Red Cross, 
there will be in this parade a series 
of floats related one to another. On 
the city committee having these floats 
in charge are Dean Bossange and Pro
fessors Stevens, Ellington and Geoghegan.
Another important feature of the 
campaign is a mass meeting to be held 
in Syria Mosque at three oclock, May 
19. The speakers will include Mr. 
Harvey Gibson, manager of the Amer
ican Red Cross.
Concerning the Red Cross and its 
motives, the campaign committee has 
issued the following:
The American Red Cross is the 
largest and most efficient organization 
for the relief of suffering that the 
world has ever seen.
It is made up almost entirely of vol
unteer workers, the higher executives 
being, without exception, men accus
tomed to large affairs who are giving 
their services without pay.
It is supported entirely by its mem
bership fees and by voluntary contri
butions.
It is today bringing relief to suffer
ing humanity, both military and civil, 
in every war-torn Allied country.
It plans tomorrow to help in the 
work of restoration throughout the 
world.
It feeds and clothes entire popula
tions in times of great calamities.
It is there to help your soldier boy 
in his'time of need.
In its thousands of workers, its tre
mendous stores and smooth-running 
transportation facilities, it is a perfect 
example of Americas genius for or
ganization of Americas generosity 
and of Americas will to win the war.
Congress authorizes it.
President Wilson heads it.
The War Department audits its ac
counts. Your Army, your Navy, and 
your Allies enthusiastically indorse it. 
Twenty-two million Americans have 
joined it.
Every cent of every dollar received 
for the Red Cross war fund will go 
for war relief.
PLEASING CONCERT BY
DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC
(Continued From Page One.) 
from Serenade, for string ensemble, 
Mr. Karl Malchereclc conducting. The 
beautiful Prelude was given a most 
artistic readingfull of feeling yet es
caping the . sentimental. The en
semble was beyond reproach 
and the quality of tone pure and 
mellow. Mozart's Allegro was an ex
cellent foil, affording opportunity for 
brighter tone and more brilliant play
ing. The work of the ensemble class 
is always anticipated with pleasure.
Miss Alix Einert gave a very credit
able performance of Marcello's Son
ata for cello, a very interesting 
composition, which elicited hearty ap
plause. 'She plays with ease and her 
work shows a steady advance in the 
right direction.
B'eethovens "Allegro from piano 
concerto in E flatwith Miss Helen 
Eslvolman at the pianowas one of 
I lie most finished and enjoyable num
bers of the program. The orchestral 
accompaniment, under the baton of J. 
V. OBrien, was particularly commend
ablethe ensemble being especially 
good, showing artistic discrimination, 
in nuance and giving the soloist just 
the right support. Miss Eslielmans 
playing was clean, brilliant and intel
lectual. She gets a full tone and came 
above the orchestra with ease. The 
applause expressed a hearty apprecia
tion of this number.
Mr. Horace I. Brown gave a very 
artistic performance of Hubays solo 
for violin Herje Kari. He has poise, 
sureness of attack and purity of tone 
add to this a keen appreciation of 
artistic values and there is an artist 
in the making. His work received 
warm applause.
The novelty of the program was the 
Hungarian Rhapsody for piano and 
orchestra, by Liszt with Mr. Norman 
Frauenheim at the piano. His perform
ance might be characteristized as em
phaticespecially during the first 
parthe was so certain of what he in
tended to do. :Some of his work was 
very brilliant, showing a facile and 
sure technique and considerable tem
perament. The performance was quite 
an undertaking for both orchestra and 
soloist, because of the irregularities of 
the composition. Liszt is erratic and 
Rhapsodies are above the law, but 
they always delight an audience. There 
is something exhilerating about them. 
The second concert will be on Friday 
evening, May 17.
UNIVERSAL TRAINING
(By Lieut.-Gen. S. B. M Young, U.
S. A., Retired.)
Today allegiance and devotion to 
our country require a declaration of 
loyalty, and while I firmly believe the 
love of country and patriotic spirit of 
our people are as strong as they ever 
were, yet much of the spirit is dorm
ant because of the general apathy due 
to a lack of realization of 
the gravity of our national situation. 
If our people do not bestir 
themselves voluntarily, conditions are 
at hand that will suddenly awake them 
to the realization that our long period 
of self-indulgence since our last ordeal
P.LUDEBUEHLP SON
SHOES AND HOSIERY PENN AND FRANKST
Footprints Lead to Detection
The standing of a man is as ofte 
as not told by his footwearif he Ik 
careless of that, hes apt to be negli
gent of more important things. If 
you will buy your shoes here, you may 
be certain of looking all right, feeling 
all right and impressing others with 
the fact that you are all right. Our 
Shoes are built by some of the most; 
representative Shoe Manufacturers In. 
the world.
$3.50 to $10 00 the Pair Special Mens Dept.
|{ STRINGS AND SUPPLIES FOR ALL MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS 
New and Slightly Used Band and String Instruments of All Kinds at 
Bargain Prices.
HIGH GRADE GUITARS SPECIAL FOR THIS WEEK 
Standard or concert sizes, rosewood, oak and mahogany with 
hardwood neck and good machine bound edges and sound hole. 
Perfect scale guaranteed. Value $10.00.
Special this week.......................................................................................... y viUU
A T T TP 929 LIBERTY AVENUE
UALLlilUlvlV O Established 1854
A Real Pipe
* * fr College Men
These are two of the 24 popular shapes in 
which you can get the
Stratford ,
$1.00 and up
W D C Hand Made
$1.50 and up 
Each aTflne pipe, 'with sterling silver ring 
'and vulcanite bit. 'Leading  dealers in 
town carry a full assortment. Select your favorite style. <
WM. DEMUTH & CO.
New York 9 
Wor/Ja Larucnt Pipe Manufacturer!
COLLEGIANS.R.H.P.A.E.
Pennington, m. ..... 01000
11010
Atchison, if.................. 00210
2000
2100
.. 110b1
.. 11330
.. 111000
Murray, p..................... . 011, 21
Totals ............................. fi 10 27 12 2
TECH.it.II.P.A.
Stevenson, 110900
Coobs, 2....00330
Doherty, s..11330
1l730
Oakley, r...0l000
Gates, m...03101
Gretzler, If.01300
Fulton, 2...01120
10111
Totals ...4S27122
Collegians .20 03 10006
Tech ............... 01 0) 30) 004
Struck out-ByMuriay,7 ;byLynn,
5. BnRoa onhallsOffLynil,s.T\v0-
baso hits-Murray, Black, Gatea. Sto
lon basesPennington, Atchison. UinpiroMcNamara.
Carnegio Tech as defeated on its 
homo grounds Saturday morning by 
the Bothany Collego nine. The final 
score was tl to H. Lynn started the 
pitching for Tech but. was forced to 
givo way to Gretzler in the second in
ning. Tito feature of the game was a 
home run clout by Gretzler with the 
bases full in the seventh. The Score:
BETIIANY.R.H.P.A.E.
Maddox, s.................... 14331
Marshall, p.................. o0111
0200
... 00710... 12710
Kay, r............................. 00100
Robinson, 3............... 30220
Hoover, 2 ................. 31230
Sterry, If....................... 20201
Totals ...............11727103
TECH.R.H.P.A.E.
Stevenson, 1............... 00300
... 00000
Maurer, 3 ................ 00101
... 11320
Zelifuss, c.................... 1fi1000
0300
Gates, m. ... ?-----2341
Gretzler, p................... 11110... 01120
Lynn, lf.-p..................... 01111
Totals ...................fi727fi4
Tech ................... 00001140 0 fi
Bethany ............ 22200000 311
Struck outBy Lynn, 2; by Gretzler, 
S; by Marshall, 7. Bases on ballsOff 
Lynn, 4; oft Gretzler, fi; off Mar
shall, 7.
RED CROSS CAMPAIGN
BEGINS EARLY AT TECH
(Continued From Page One.)
In many organizations and indus
tries over the whole country thous
ands of workers will give by a con
certed movement a days pay to the 
Red Cross. In fact, this campaign is 
to be a remarkable one; and those 
who know the work of the Tech Red 
Cross Auxiliary will, beyond a doubt, 
do all in their power to insure a gen
erous response to the local campaign.
One feature of the week will be a 
great parade next Saturday afternoon.
by battle has so undermined the moral 
as-well as the physical fiber of every 
community throughout the land as to 
make it a matter of personal concern 
to each individual.
With Universal Military Training 
and Equal Service established by law, 
militarism would be impossible. Mil
itary training of every American boy 
between the ages of eighteen and 
twenty-one, for one year, would not 
interfere with his career but would re
sult in hardening the muscles and 
co-ordinating mind and body; and, also, 
it would teach habits of punctuality and 
neatness, prompt obedience and re
spect for proper authority, and make 
a more valuable and successful citizen.
The charge has been made that we 
are losing our national ideals and that 
we have forgotten how to obeyif we 
ever knew. If we are to overcome the 
onus of these charges, we must do so 
through training our young men in the 
ideals which have been handed down 
to us from an ancestry which was will
ing to fight for them, sacrifice for 
them, and when need arose, to die for 
them. They died that we might rest 
secure, as we have rested secure for 
many generations; and if we value 
this sacred heritage we must qualify 
to answer the call of our country and 
aswer it fully equipped for the task.
Military training will teach the 
young men in all stations that govern
ment is not an agency from which 
something is to be had, but an institu
tion with first claim on them for the 
best they have to give.
. It is a truly democratic ideal that 
every young man should prepare him
self to a reasonable degree of efficien
cy to defend his country. Sectional 
feeling will gradually disappear before 
an ideal founded on service to the state 
by citizens of every locality. Only 
through service in a common cause 
may we hope to unite the widely dif
ferent elements of our population, and 
instill into them the conviction that 
Democracy and 'Service are one.
If every young man knew that every 
other young man with whom he comes 
in contact has been through the same 
intensive course of niilitary training, 
each would have greater respect for 
the otherwould have greater respect 
for the rights of the other and all to
gether would have greater respect and 
love for our country.
When sons of the wealthy, the sons 
of the laborer, the sons of the poor and 
the sons of the immigrants, live to
gether and serve their country to
gether, only then and not before will 
we become a truly democratic people.
The establishment of obligatory mil
itary training for all our young man
hood will create a furnace of patriot
ism that will fuse the varying ele
ments of our population and prove to 
the world that we are a mighty nation, 
able and ever ready to uphold and de
fend' the great democratic principles 
of equal liberty and justice to each and 
every loyal citizen within the jurisdic
tion of our government.
Patriotism is love of country. If we 
wont fight for it, we dont love it, and 
if we dont love it, we wont fight for it.
In conclusion, I believe it to be our 
duty to provide a permanent system 
of Universal Military Training for the 
youth of our country. It will stimu
late the people of every section, and, 
in time, America will become the 
Great Mother of Liberty, to a pos
terity which will rejoice in her, even 
as we, today, rejoice in the heroic 
achievements of those hardy pioneers 
who gave to the world the spirit of 
independence which, please God, shall 
never die.
OFFICERS ELECTED BY 
Y. W. C. A. FOR 1918-19
Much interest was centered about 
the election of Y. W. C. A. officers for 
the coming year. The Juniors have 
shouldered much of the responsibility 
of the organization this year and its 
progress next year largeliy depends 
upon l he members of next years 
Junior Class. With the re-election of 
Salome Stamm as president, the girls 
of the Y. W. C. A. are looking forward 
(.o another successful year. The Cab
inet for next year is as follows:
President, Salome Stamm;
Vice President, Sarah Leah;
Secretary, Barbara End res;
Treasurer, Edith Pearson;
Honorary Member, Miss Holmes. 
Chairman Religious Committee, Mar
guerite Waldeman;
(a) Bible Study, Gail Sellers;
(b) Missionary, Inez Potts;
Chairman Guild Committee, Doro
thy Harlow;
Chairman Association News, Helen 
Field;
Chairman Social Committee, Agnes'. 
Russell;
Chairman Finance Committee, Lydia 
McCarthy.
JINX FOLLOWS BASEBALL TEAM 
IN LAST THREE GAMES PLAYED
(Continued from page 1)
by players on both teams and timely 
hitting.
Pitcher Murray really won the game 
for the Collegians, when he drove out 
a two-bagger in the fourth inning, 
scoring three men. Gates led in the 
attack for Tech with three hits. Capt. 
Doherty did the fielding for Tech.
Dick Smith kept the Collegians in 
the game on two occasions through 
his speed in beating out hits with two 
men out, scoring later on hitting back 
of him. The first base play of Raley 
was a feature. The score:
Established 1865
EJ g& BRING YOUR PICTURES 1
S To Us. We Do Expert E
3 DEVELOPING PRINTING %
@ ENLARGING [|
j! At Reasonable Prices. E
[ip A Fresh Stock of g
Ej PHOTOGRAPHIC SUPPLIES E
:: Always on hand. E
I W. S. BELL & CO. I
E] 412 WOOD STREET E
PITTSBURGH, PA. E
[3 Bell PhoneCourt 1265. ||
iH R
PHOTOGRAPHS 
OF OUR
SOLDIERS
242 S. HIGHLAND AVENUE
cJM5i5J5MSJ5i5MSM5/5J5J5J5M5i5JSiSJSJSIS/Sj
3J3JS/SJ3J2M2M3MSM3J3I3M0MSMSMSSJSJ
CBell Phone 3465 Grant. 0
G  I?   [? E !
!- C Cc c
J. G. Marshall 
Company
OFFICE, SCHOOL AND
LIBRARY FURNITURE, f 
959 LIBERTY AVENUE 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
nof^r?af?angiapaf?a/igr?gnciin3f?anaf?aTOrn3ffgf7gngi?aifairgfiqigia
SPORTING GOODS STORE 
TennisGolf 
BaseballBicycles 
Kodaks and Films 
Guns and Ammunition 
jj Army Leggings and Sweaters 
Fishing Tackle 
H Bicycle Tires and Sundries
jj Tents and Camping Outfits
H Gun and Bicycle Repairing
| 639 LIBERTY AVENUE
PITTSBURGH, PA.H 
iliii)iiiiiiiiii!iiiiiiniiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitniittiiiiiiii!!iiniiiiiiiiiiiH!ii!iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
Genuino
French,'
Briar
