
Two Plays 
Wittle Theatre 
Friday, 4:00 P. M.Qlhp (Earl an
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIANOV KM]'
Tech Beats Allegheny 9-0
In Fine; Aquatic Exhibition
Teams Play Well, Though Handicapped by Muddy Field
VOL. XIV. No. 6
Buckeye Club 
Smoker 
November 15, 1919
Courtesy Gazette Times.LOOMIS ON HIS WAY FOR FIRST TOUCHDOWN AGAINST ALLEGHENY.
Intimate Extravaganza Will be
Event of Theatrical Season
Bohemia, Unlimited Has Many Unique 
and Novel Features
With the staging- of Bohemia, Un
limited, the intimate musical extrav
aganza at the Schenley Theatre on 
November 21 and 22, with its vivid 
and colorful scenes, and its story of 
the life of Artists in all parts of the 
universe, an opportunity will be offer
ed to the people of Pittsburgh to see 
an entertainment that possesses all 
the features that go to make a Broad
way success, with perhaps some things 
more unusual and striking than could 
ever be presented in a more commer
cial production.
That it is primarily oriental in 
theme, and permits the widest play 
of imagination in costuming and set
ting, and the use of pictorial free
dom that is daring in the extreme, are 
facts well known by all members of 
the Arts Division who have been 
called upon to participate in the de
signing of the various elements of the 
spectacle. The beauty and artistry 
of the big feature scenes have rarely 
been equaled on the American stage.
The cast comprises 100 people, 
| many of whom have already made a 
name and reputation for themselves 
!\in the theatrical world. The produc
tion of the play is under the able di
rection of Mr. Buchanan, a very tal
ented producer and director, with the 
assistance of Mr. Ried and Mr. 
Church. The chief characters of the 
extravaganza will be given an oppor
tunity to exercise their ability and in
dividuality of characterization to the 
fullest extent.
To quote the Press Agent, Eighty 
of the prettiest, daintiest, shapliest, 
and most daring of the fairer sex go 
[to make up the Pony and Ballet chor
uses, which promise to stand out as 
Jprominent parts of the many feature 
attractions. These young ladies, all 
members of the Division of the Arts, 
are working many hours daily, under 
the personal direction of Miss Eliza
beth Smith and Miss Mary Richards, 
two nationally known masters of the 
Terpischorean Art, and rehearsals are 
making more than satisfactory progress.
The Extravaganza is made up of 
sixteen gigantic and gorgeous scenes. 
One that will stand out most promij nently among all the brilliant spec
tacles is the Bohemian Scene, depict
ing the life of the artists in a studio 
under the Grand Canal in Venice. 
The Egyptian Scene, which is con
sidered a masterpiece, is the result of 
a competitive problem in Design held 
under the auspices of the Architecture 
: School, Division of the Arts. The 
j color, grandeur, and lighting effects 
of this scene make it an impressive 
picture long to be remembered. The 
Pierrot and Pierrette scene strikes an 
entirely new note, but is in keeping 
with the general plot of the play. 
Different in every way is the Arabian 
?Nights scene, taken directly from an 
[Arabian Nights story never before 
dramatized.(
With specially designed costumes, 
ixteen original scenes, seventeen
catchy, tuneful musical numbers writ
ten by Arts Division students, and 
the best of talent to carry out the ac
tion, Bohemia, Unlimited will with
out doubt be the banner event of the 
early winter theatrical season.
IKE Dili GUISUES TO THE THEATRE....... x*.. . .
Land of Hearts Desire Reviewed.
The past week was an energetic one 
for the stage crew as well as some 
of the other students of the Drama 
department for they gave productions 
in the theatre Thursday night, Fri
day afternoon and Saturday night. 
The bill was a reptition of last weeks 
Well of the Saints with the addi
tion of The Land of Hearts Desire 
on Thursday and Saturday. The play 
of Synges has been discussed in our 
last issue and the players with their 
various ideosyncrasies of interpreta
tion. However, a word more 
should be saidseveral words more 
of their Saturday night presentation. 
It differed from last week's Well of 
the Saints as the proverbial dress re
hearsal from an inspired and lucky 
first night. The players had gain
ed a surety through practice which 
speeded up the tempo to the necessary 
Gaelic allegretto. At the same time 
they played with more feeling, espe
cially of the humor for which the au
dience may have been partly respon
sible, for the laughs came pleasantly 
when they should. Very little of the 
inimitable Irish humor of it was lost. 
The only point that showed real need 
of improvement was at the end of 
Act 1 when old Martin and Mary 
Doul have their big scrap. Mr. 
Reed still refuses to rise to the height 
of irate feeling which should meet 
the curtain. The rest of the actors 
worked well to help him meet Mary 
Douls anathemas with the rasping 
vituperation of the wiry old charac
ter but he didnt mount. May we say 
that Mr. Reed would be wise to for
get he has a mellow voice in such 
roles as Martin Douls and try more 
for realism than for effect of lyric 
quality. The same may be said of 
Miss Richards but in less degree.
But to speak chronologicallyfor 
the Land of Hearts Desire came 
first on the program Thursday and 
Saturday. This play of William But
ler Yeats was given here two years 
ago and some of the original cast 
played again this week. The only 
changes were in the parts of Maire, 
the girl wife, and the Fairy child. The 
theme of it is simple. A girl with 
dreams and visions of the Fairy Folk, 
recently married to a young peasant 
is unhappy in her new home where 
the mother is old and bitter of 
tongue, the father is old and crafty 
and wise and the priest, a visitor in 
the house, is old and godly and
grave. Her husband, Shawn, she 
loves but he is dull and slow of 
speech. It is All Hallows Eve when 
fairies are abroad. A little child comes 
begging at the door and is admitted 
and treated kindly. Afraid of the 
crucifix, she begs them to hide it 
away which the priest does to humor 
her. The child then cries that she is 
Pln-ygs daughter and of the fairy 
folk. Making a magic circle of flow
ers about her and Maire she charms 
the girls spirit away. The others are 
unable to save her without the cruci
fix. The fairy goes out calling to 
Maire to follow her. As her voice 
fades away Maire dies in the arms of 
Shawn, who tries in vain to save her. 
That is the plot and Mr. Yeats has 
keeniiij? :!|uY.el'se weaving into it the 
ism, the lmuntin'X Si JJ'.e Irish fatalof Irish faiiT^K ~ -veek-ctW/ik 
Ivric Ciiialitnev 'ales nil mu dreamy "~YI c-'.--^iiuy of his words. It has that 
truly artistic suggestiveness that 
pierces one poignantly and more than 
hints at tearsbut one is not sure 
whyit goes too deep.
As for the actors in this piece. As 
a whole the play goes across-pos
sibly because it is almost actor 
proof. Somehow by its close prox
imity to the Well of the Saints the 
play seemed to have absorbed some 
of the hitters earthiness. It didnt 
rise from the ground at all. It tried 
to flutter its wings at times and at 
the end hopped a yard or two but 
there was practically none of the elu
sive atmosphere of the supernatural. 
Mr. Church, as the old father did the 
best work. His part was the distinct
ly human one as opposed to the con
trolling element of the fairies yet he 
played with true poetic feeling and 
gave all the sympathy he could to aid 
the atmosphere. Miss Dice as the 
shrewish mother had a difficult part 
but spoke too quickly and lost effect. 
Mr. Reed as the priest was kindly 
but might have given more strength 
to the power of the church as opposed 
to the evil powers. Mr. Dickinson 
was a nice human Shawn but a little 
indifferent to Maire. It seemed too 
easy for her to break the ties of hu
man love. The fairy child was more 
childlike than fairylike. Miss Shore 
was delightfully natural in the part 
but even her most unearthly red wig 
failed to make her Phrygs daughter. 
Her voice had variety but not the 
sustained singing tone that should 
have risen and fallen like the voice of 
the wind. And when she said Dance 
upon the mountain like a flame! why 
didnt we feel a thrill down our 
spines? The same criticism applies to 
Miss Mering who played Maire Sat
urday night. She looked the part of 
the dreamy, half-fairy girl wife and 
acted it but her voice did not rise to 
express her yearning for the spirit 
life and with them walk upon the dis
hevelled tide and dance upon the 
mountain like a flame. We wish she 
could have sung the part instead. Miss 
Crowe as Maire, Thursday night play
ed with more mature feeling than 
Miss Mering which did not add to the 
part. Miss Crowe is good in realistic 
roles but in such plays as this she 
lacks abadon to imagination.
Both plays were well staged. One 
point particularly is to be commend
edthe short waits between the acts.
Speed up your next, Thespians. We 
want to know if you have any girls 
in your department who are not bless
ed with red hair.
ARTS PLEBE MEETING.
Meeting called to order by Mr. Wil
lard.
Nominations for senator opened:
Franklin
Keough
Lees.
Franklin elected.
Discussed party for upperclassmen. 
Second week in December was sug
gested. No action was taken, class 
was poorly represented. It was de
cided to call a meeting in the near fu
ture to appoint a committee.
PRESIDENT HAMERSbHLAG
PRRESIISDNTHRAIMETSI
President Hamerschlag addressed 
the Student Assembly of the Division 
of Industries last Wednesday at their 
regular meeting in room 104. The 
room was packed to the doors and a 
great deal of enthusiasm was in evi
dence. The president spoke on the 
differences between the educated and 
the uneducated man, showing that 
there was no material or physical dif
ference to be seen and that from the 
associations and pleasures of the two 
types could one differentiate between 
them. By educated the president did 
not infer that college men were alone 
in that class but that ?t included count
less examples of line men wh*5^p'\ 
had that prTviTegeT ' i'le also of
the various school functions and ac
tivities which in general were of a 
more or less simple nature and refered to dances and athletic contests, and 
that many were not satisfied by these 
and formed fraternities and clubs in 
which persons of like interests might 
meet. In closing he said a few words 
on the reception and assimilating pro
cess of the new students who come to 
the institution every fall at the hands 
of the Sophs.
After the opening address the regu
lar buiness of the assembly was car
ried on. Mast was appointed chair
man of the Club Room Comm, and 
Wire and Baily as the other two mem
bers.
That old and much fought question 
of smoking was again brought up and 
Mr. Miller assistant to Dean Morris 
urged the students to pay strict at
tention to the rule which states that 
no smoking shall be permitted in and 
around, or in front of the building.
The resignation of W. II. Oakley, 
president of the Assembly, as repre
sentative on the Athletic Board of 
Control was received and accepted 
with regret. II. W. Lynn and II. C. 
Hamman were nominated.
Several selections given by the or
chestra were well received.
----------a----------b LG [G hG ILSPjI 
PM MG MG 0G PIISMBLY
Dean Root of the Pittsburgh Col
lege for Women addressed the weekly 
assembly at Margaret Morrison. Miss 
Root has just returned from an inter
national convention at Chicago. She 
spoke of the wonderful work being 
done along employment lines in work 
for college women. Throughout the 
country agencies and bureaus have 
been established to carry out this 
work.
Next week Dr. Kerr of the Shadyside Presbyterian Church is to speak 
at Assembly.
PEMI RTVTITOH ISHTOEI
For the first time in many years 
the seniors of Design gave their after
noon informal tea dance in the corri
dors of design school. Music was fur
nished from the big stock of talent 
of the school. The Music Department 
and otherwise. There was lots of pep 
to it and it is hoped they start to
gether. After several numbers were 
played refreshments were served in 
the exhibit room. Almost the whole 
school turned out much to their credit 
also many guests from the outside. 
The seniors are to be congratulated on 
the affairespecially the chaperoning 
of lone ladies found without partners.
----------**---------:During the coming winter, Dean
Day is to give a series of monthly
lectures at Wheeling, W. Va. Dean
Day will take for hisi subject six of
the masterpieces of literature.
Hot too late to go to [ornellG
See Mr. Heyl, Today.
Total Expense $25.19
Fletcher
LLSBSI OAMILLPIHSR 
BY jTIjTI[OES 25-0
Fighting in a sea of mud which at 
times obliterated everything apparent
ly but the tips of the goal posts the 
yearlings were sent to the cleaners 
last Saturday by the stronger Kiski 
eleven with a score of 25-0.
With J. P. Pluvius on the wagon 
for the past week the Saltsburg grid 
threatened to force the players to 
duck boats to stage the scrap. The 
view from the grandstand compared 
favorably with that had from the dock 
of a submarine on a wet afternoon at
H.J1 tyodnesday, Nov. 12th and 'rin
day?. Nov. 13th ivl11 II!.. ^ tlOi\.> Vv *j*.o 1>UI mu.. AavuiiiOfe for
minus the dilute the quarrel would 
have proven a stellar performance. 
However, as it was the spectators 
were rewarded with the finest burles
que in football we have enjoyed in 
many moons.
During the opening stages the ball 
was constantly in the onemios terri
tory but disasterous fumblos at criti
cal moments prevented the Hazelitos 
from worming the oval over for a 
tally. As the fray wore on however 
the opponents specialized in their for
ward pass and with such deadly ef
fect that in the end their backs had 
been sent galloping behind the cross 
bars for a total of four touchdowns.
Fumbling was much in evidence 
during the entire play the muddy pig
skin being harder to glean than five 
acres. Coach Hazel used the derrick 
sparingly the few replacements being 
made to relieve injured members. Gib
son and Albertson both showed up 
well at right half and should make 
fine material for Coach Steffens Var
sity next fall. ICiski has an excep
tionally fast and powerful machine 
this year and would prove a strong 
opponent for many of the Varsity 
teams of the smaller colleges. The 
line-up:
Kiski25. Tcch Plcbcs0.
Brown ................L. E.................Hawkins
Rankin................L. T.................Kalabash
Verderber..........L. G............McCormick
Austin........................C... .Lechenstein
Glees....................R. G...................McClain
Gray ....................R. T............\ ... Griffin
Allebrand (Capt.) R. E...............Fisher
McLaughlin-----Q. B.....................Gibson
Amos ...................R. II.....................Emory
Tindall ........L. H... (Capt.) Anderson
Hardie................ F. B...........Brumbaugh
SubstitutionsFor Kiski: Brown
for Austin. Rose for Brown, Davis 
for Clees, Christy for Tindall, Batch
elor for McLaughlin, Hill for Amos, 
Christoff for Rankin, Nathan for Har
die, Evans for Gray, Cameron for Verderber. For Tech: Miller for Fisher, 
Heddrain for Kalabash, Ressner for 
McCormick, Jones  for Hawkins, 
Emery for Gibson, Albertson for 
Emery. Touchdowns(McLaughlin 2, 
Amos, Hardie. Goal from touchdown 
McLaughlin. RefereeShreck, W. 
& J. UmpireHewitt, Penn State. 
Head linesmanDaub, Princeton.
ObbT[SEI THMEORA[SR 
PM PEMI PIISMBLY
Harry Brenner, as newly elected 
president of the Design Student Body, 
called a meeting of the body in the 
theatre on Wednesday. The import
ant item of the coming extravaganza 
was discussed. Those in charge of 
the different branches of the work 
were called upon to give talks. All 
the officers of the school were intro
duced by President Brennen. It is 
seriously hoped that in the future 
these assembliesheld primarily for 
the benefit of the student will be more 
largely attended. Every one must be 
out if the work planned for the year 
is to be a success.
On a field that made good football 
impossible, the Varsity defeated our 
old rivals, Allegheny College 9-0. In 
fact we simply outran the Methodist. 
Tech field was completely submerged, 
here and there appearing a small 
island and it was lucky that nobody 
was drowned.
The soft ground was also a lifesaver for the men as none of them 
received hard bumps and all will be in 
shape for the Cornell game Saturday, 
except Fletcher. He received a bruise 
on the hip and tore the ligaments 
loose. It is doubtful whether h ewill 
be able to play next Saturday.
A handful of artists clay was requi
sitioned from a nearby classroom and 
the oval was placed high and dry 
where the breakers would not reach 
it. Williams opened hostilities by 
booting down to Kerr on Alleghenys 
20-yard line. Kerr submerged at once, 
but Tech had his range and when he 
came up a pair of destroyers were 
waiting for him. Several tries at gainng ended in failure and he punted to 
Fletcher on Techs 25-yard line.
Captain Marshall ordered full steam 
ahead, but Quartermaster Fletcher, 
who was at the Plaid helm, was un
able to make any headway against the 
current and had to turn with the wind 
and return the ball to Allegheny via 
the sky route. The oval went over 
the line onto the shore, and the Meth
odists took the ball on the 20-yard 
line.
ICinnear and Kerr made it first and 
10 between them, but after that Tech 
landed a torpedo defense amidships 
on the Meadvillo craft and she went 
down when Kerr punted to Fletcher 
on his own 20-yard line. He thought 
he had a clear field, but Harbaugh had 
managed to swim up under him un
awares and suddenly popped above 
water, tackling him on the 25-yard line.
Tech immediately punted to midfield and when Allegheny attempted 
a pass, intercepted it. Tho Scientists 
were penalized 15 yards on tho play 
for the only penalty of tho game. 
Tech punted and the quarter ended.
Tho end of the first quarter 
the two elevens in suchzm
were mud and water from head to foot 
and back again. It is really a shame 
that the two schools do not possess 
racing crews instead of football teams. 
Conditions wero ideal for a rogatta 
and a better idea would have been had 
as to which side really won.
Allegheny opened tho socond period 
by booting after a couple of tries at 
the center of the Plaid flotilla had 
gained nothing. Moon fumbled the 
punt but Skipper Marshall managed 
to dive on it before any damage had 
boon done. Moon paddled through 
tackle for eight yards, but fumbled 
on the next play and Allegheny re
covered.
The mothodists again tried a pass 
but Marshall saved it from a watery 
grave in midflcld. It was a lucky thing 
he grabbed the ball when he did for it 
was dropping into the deepest part of 
the lake and might have sunk beyond 
recovery.
With this stroke of good fortune the 
Tcchitos took a lease on life. Mar
shall bent his back to the oars and 
had floated 25 yards down the lake 
before he was stopped. Tech again 
fumbled and ICinnear recovered on 
the Pittsburghers 25-yard line. A 
punt went onto the shore in mid
stream.
The Plaid then uncorked a whirl
wind attack and overwhelmed the 
light Allegheny fleet, taking the ball 
down the field with dash after dash. 
With the oval on the 20-yard line 
Marshall went over behind a perfect 
smoke screen for the first and only 
touchdown of the confab. Fletcher 
kicked goal.
Williams kicked off to Tracy and the 
two squadrons maneuvered around in 
the center of the lake until the half 
ended.
Williams started the second half 
with a kick-off that trickled away a 
few yards and then stopped. On his 
second attempt he fared better and 
Trace caught it on the 30-yard line. 
Loomis picked up an Allegheny fum
ble and waded through for five yards 
before he went under. Marshall paddied around right end for 15 more but 
Allegheny tightened up, and with the 
ball on the visitors one-yard line the 
Plaid sailors were unable to put it 
over.
Kerr tried to punt behind his own 
line. He dropped the pass, picked it 
up and tried to escape but was downed 
for a touchback. That ended the 
scoring, for the Methodist quarter 
punted to Tech's 35-yard line. Tech 
made a couple of first downs but were 
finally stopped. Quarterback Fletcher 
was hurt and had to be carried off the 
field. An exchange of punts ended 
the quarter with the ball in midfield.
The fourth quarter was a see-saw 
afFair, neither side showing much 
fight. Allegheny launched a brief of
fensive when Kerr got away for 15 
yards, but it failed to net them any
thing and they had to kick. Marshall 
crawled around right end for 35 yards 
but on the next try Tech fumbled and 
the final whistle blew just as an Alle
gheny player fell on the ball.
Kerr, the little Allegheny quarter
back, was easily the best performer 
of the day for the visiting eleven. He 
managed to get away with some nice 
punts and could pick holes in the
All ex-army, navy and marine 
fliers who are interested in 
forming an aero club at Tech 
will meet in Science School 
Club room Thursday, November 
G at 7:30 p. m.
Injured.
heavy Plaid line with great skill. He used a lot of mighty good generalship in the pinches and deserves a lot ol credit for the way he managed the team.
The Plaid squadron was far heavier 
than their opponents, but the day was 
a good one for light men. Marshall 
was unable to get away for many long 
swims .although the Schenley leader 
did knock oil' a couple of pretty dashes.
Although tlie bathers were few and 
far between, still those that did stand 
on the beach were filled with the char
acteristic Tech pep. They cheered 
and yelled just as though they were 
at a football game, and when the En
gineers managed to slop over for a 
touchdown they made enough noise 
for a dozen times their number.
The lineup:
Tcch9. Allegheny0.
Wittmer ..............L. E..................Baldwin
Williams.............L. T...................Murphy
Roberts ...............L. G......................Jones
Roth .........................C.............Harbaugh
Carey . ..............R. G..................Kramer
Moon ..................R. T..................Coulson
Godden................R. E..................Scannel
Fletcher ..................Q.........................Kerr
Marshall .............L. II.......................plum
Levy ....................R. H.................ICinnear
Loomis.....................F.......................Trace
Score by Periods:
Tech ....................................0 7 2 09
Allegheny .........................0 0 0 00
Substitutions  Tech, Curtis for
Wittmer, Wittmer for Cutis, Brunwaesser for Fletcher, Touchdown
Marshall. Kicked goalFletcher. Of
ficials  McFarland, referee; Flandnigan, umpire; Barr, head linesman.------J----
TECH CROSS COUNTRY 
TEAM TO KEET CORNEIL
The current exhibition of paintings 
at the Carnegie Institute contains the 
work of several members of the fac
ulty and two members of the student 
body of the Division of the Arts. A 
collection of portraits by Prof. Hubbel, head of the painting and deco
rating department is also being ex
hibited.
Faculty members whose work is be
ing exhibited include Mr. Bayard, 
who has four landscapes; Mr. Readio, 
one landscape, and three paintings by 
Mr. Taylor. Members of the student 
body exhibiting are Miss Ruse, two 
landscapes and one still life, and Miss 
McClelland, one portrait.
The exhibition is a very interesting 
one, and it would be well worth the 
time of any Carnegie Tech man to see 
just how the work of the Division of 
the Arts compares with that of na
tionally reputed painters. :
Our cross country, team will Journey 
to Ithaca, N. Y., to meet the strong 
Cornell combination. The run will be 
held in conjunction with tho football 
game, (0 the runners finishing on 
School Field jmmodiuUVy '"Mnw 
the game. lYLiicIi' 1 iTJKvYMTFrtr-has been 
aroused over tljis meet and tho. Tech 
runners have been working hard for 
tho event. Coach Hazel has his men 
in fine physical condition and is cer
tain of a splendid showing on No
vember 8. The coach is very much 
pleased with tho showing of the 
Plobos who have been displaying un
usual ability. Several surprises were 
brought out in the recent tryouts and 
in thoso the Plobos showed some little 
ability as cross country runners. 
Greenlaw, Nutting, Gotlml and Mc
Donald, all new men, made several of 
the old men give their best in the try
outs. Acting Captain Schmidt is in 
his old form and will without doubt 
furnish some unpleasant surprises for 
the Cornell boys. Marshall Garo is 
showing some high clans stulV and 
is better than ever. Harvey Hillar, 
one of the big men from last year, in 
back to his old style form and will 
bo hard to boat. Duvall, an old dis
tance man, will give the Cornell men 
some strong competition. In the try
outs Duvall has been showing some 
exceptional ability and is all set for 
the big run. Our boys should give the 
Cornell organization a stiff pull and 
all the rooters going to Ithaca with 
tho teams will see an exciting race be
fore the big football game.
Negotiations are under way for 
several other cross country runs. The 
Pittsburgh Athletic Association will 
probably hold their big run immedi
ately before the Tech-Pitt game, the 
finish being on Forbes Field. Bucknell and Tech will probably meet here 
on Thanksgiving Day. Bucknell 
boasts of a strong combination but 
they will have to show some real cross 
country running to beat our boys.
hOEj Of PEMI IMARSHMI
SXHTBTMSR PM THIMTMAMS

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE TARTANamu
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 1919.
Sty? (Haran
Published every week by .undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Activities Board.
Entered in the postoffice of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
5c the copyThis year $1.50Canada, $1.75
Editor-in-Chicf. . .
Phone Hazel 9422
Business Manager .................Phone Iiazel 9425.
. . . .LcRoy E. Em?rich 
..........T. W. Allsv, ortli
EDITORIAL 
Managing Editor 
L. K. Paquin 
Assistant Managing Editors 
F. I. Smith 
C. L. Lake 
News Editor 
C. M. Blackburn 
Associate News Editors 
J. T. Ames 
W. D. Hall 
Athletic Editor 
II. W. Lynn 
Assistant Athletic Editor
G. R. Goodrich
Circulation Manager
H. G. Atchley
School Editors
M. M. C. S............Margaret J. Griffen
Science....................J. K. W. Macalpinr;
Industries............................I. R. Rudisil)
Arts..................................T. It. Hinckley
Other Assistants 
II. C. Ilaldeman 
R. G. Welsh 
L. A. McCardell 
Arthur Lubin 
J. R. Barrow 
Gertrude Baton 
Margaret Stolzenbaugh 
Adele Gumbert 
Olga Kiefer
BUSINESS STAFF 
I). A. Sillers 
N. E. Fox 
Wm. Obenour 
M. I. Cohen
TARTAN OFFICE.
Hours1:00 to 4:00 Wednesdays. 
12:00 to 1:00 Thursdays.
.Room 162, Design
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the Man 
aging Editor for the make up.
All business communications should be sent to the Business Manager. 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported at once.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the signature to be withheld if desired.
All news items must be in the student postoffice, Central Building, before 
4:30 P. M. Fridays.
AS REGARDS THE FRESHMEN.
Every college talks proudly about the spirit of democracy which exists 
on their campus. Carnegie has always done likewise but it appears that such 
talk would be absolutely unfounded at the present time. Our combination of 
schools is original and unique; our customs are original also. But if we can 
be benefited by copying or by taking suggestions from other colleges, is it 
not altogether fitting and proper that we should do so?
In some colleges the spirit of democracy is absolutely cultivated. Could 
it not be done at Carnegie? One method used is that of requiring Freshmen 
to speak to every student in the particular school to which they belong or 
better, to require them to speak to everyone whom they meet on the campus, 
excepting, of course, the opposite sex. In this way a spirit of general friend
ship overcomes cold hard feelings of antagonism in the two lower classes. 
Would the copying of this practice humiliate the traditions and customs 
of our institution? It is a wise old adage that Two heads are better than 
one. If this practice would stimulate the spirit of friendship among all 
classes, why not use it? Action by the Four Schools Council would easily 
establish the custom.
To continue, trouble has always been experienced in getting Plebes out 
for activities and keeping them out. A good system has been adopted at the 
Columbia University to remedy this default and the same is being adopted 
by many other institutions. Those freshment who are participating in any 
activities are given an inexpensive "Activities Button to wear in the lapel of 
their coat. The real significance of the button is realized in the fact that the 
men not wearing the buttons are held more strictly to freshmen regulations. 
Attention in regards to regulations are concentrated on them. However, the 
other men are not excused but more loniency is shown.
This creates a situation where the newcomers come out fqr 
without the least argumo"' r hesitation on their. nn*f  fcS/A '___________ui/UL-  li * R/
liammHWimmi .......... ,---------
Schools CoUm.ll not not oil this quostlon mi well us fiieproV.au ; It In mi old (lUiistlon whether A. 1C. F. men should he excused from ckuluLlons or not. At this lute limn, nctlon should hnvo been completed. How
evertho turnout Is sound Hint the A. E. V. men, now freshmen, would 
probably he upperclnasmen. Why not show the A. K K men n little nppieclntlon 'by lit burnt ucllim oil the question'/ Many schools have already exeuH0(l these men from freshmen regulations. _____________
HPLLOhS'SH [PBPESM 
GTVSH BY JAHTOE GTELI
On Saturday, November ] the Jun
iors at M. M. I), entertained the 
Freshmen at a Cabaret Party in the 
Gym. Halloween decorations were 
used in u most effective manner, 
changing the common everyday gym 
apparatus into graceful supports for 
colored leaves and black and yellow 
streamers. The shaded lights cast a 
most romantic and dreerly glow at the 
small tables arranged around the gym 
and refreshments consisting of sand
wiches, salad, doughnuts, cider, and 
nuts, served to them, the ghosts began to walk.
First, the famous witches from 
MacBeth arose from gloomy cauldrons 
and mingled With the guests. After 
the witches came some modern dances 
and dancers, quite a contrast to the 
ghosts and witches. Then came the 
college campus cops with their warn
ings to all. The scene changed again 
and the audience was carried to old 
Seville, to witness a marvelous bull 
fight. The terrifying bull, the charm
ing senorita, the swash-buckling to 
read or and the brave bull fighter made 
all rise in loud and prolonged applause.
Across half the world from old 
Spain, the party was carried next and 
to the haunting strains of ukeleles a 
Ilawaiin maiden danced on the beach 
at Waikili. Next came the advertise
ments. Gold dust twins, arrow collar, 
fairy soap, cream of wheat, Bull Dur
ham, Dutch Cleanser, Jap Rose Soap, 
Fatimas, and Luxite Hose all made a 
gay company marching behind the 
footlights.
All together the party was certainly 
a great success, and the girls who 
worked so hard and so willingly sure
ly felt repaid. To all who helped in 
any way, even to the donors of the 
corn stalks and leaves, appreciation is certainly due.
IMARSHM [OAH[TL RS[TRSI M
The regular meeting of the Student 
Council was held on Thursday evening 
October 30 in Margaret Morrison Hall 
with eight of the members present. 
The following business was transact
ed: Mr. Haeddeus, committee to in
vestigate for the calendar of events 
eported that the calendar of events 
which is running in the Tartan be 
continued for the present time.
The president of the council pre
sented a plan of lotter-formation in 
marching suggested by Colonel 
Brooks. This is an entirely new fea
ture In marching, no other school has 
It, and It is possible to make it very 
effective. After open discussion it 
was regularly moved and seconded to 
adopt this plan of lotter-formation to 
used when all of Tcch marches in
[G TG MG BEPH[H Ob PG PG SG 
MO HOLR BTG MSSMTHG
The first meeting of the C. I. T. 
branch of the A. A. E. will be held 
on Wednesday, November 12. Mem
bers and applicants are invited to 
come and bring their friends. No 
one who comes will have a dull Lime. 
There will be eats, smokes and a good 
speaker. The chief reason for the 
meeting is to get acquainted and io 
show the advantages or the A. A. 10. 
The speaker will be obtained by Mr. 
Thatcher, secretary of the Pitt.sbur ;h 
chapter. He will be some man who 
has succeeded well in the engineering 
profession and who has a hi rt mes
sage for all engineering students, 
Watch the bulletin boards for definite announcements.
The Constitution Committee 
working on the.constitution for the 
C. I. T. branch and will have it ready 
to be submitted at the next business 
meeting. The membership committee 
is working hard and already there are 
over fifty members and applicants, 
The aim of the society is to have all 
seniors graduate from Tech as mem 
bers of the association.
IMARSHM ES[SLMTOH MO 
BS HSLR BY
The annual student reception of 
the First Baptist Church will be held 
on Thursday, November 6, at 8 P. M. 
This reception is given every fall for 
the students of Tech and Pitt. The 
purpose is to get acquainted and to 
have a good time. This will be the 
best social event of the year held out
side of school. There will be music 
in which both schools will be repre
sented. A few speakers will give 
short snappy talks, but there will not 
be any long, sleep enticing speeches. 
Then there will be a friendly cheering 
and singing contest, so there should 
be a lot of students to represent 
Tech. There will be all sorts of -en
tertainment, so that there will not 
be a dull moment the whole evening. 
And there wilL be lots of eats for 
everybody. And say! this isnt just 
for the boys, all the girls are wanted 
there. Anybody that doesnt come will 
be sorry; ask any one who has attend
ed one of these before.
The reception will be held in the 
gymnasium in the basement of the 
church, which is at Bellfield and Bay
ard streets. Its the one with the il
luminated cross.
Come singly or in a crowd, but be sure to come!
CALENDAR OF EVENTS.
.. Room 52, ScienceNovember 7 Cosmopolitan Club Smoker...................
November II Victory Holiday (tentative).
November 14. Dorm Dance ........................................
November 15.- Buckeye Club Smoker.......................November -.!! .mil 22 -Dlv. of Arts, Musical Kxti-uvuifun-/.u. .Schenley lhoatic
November 20Carneiflo Hay....................................................................................
November 27Tlmiiltsitlvlim' Day ..............................December 20- l-lrst liny Christmas Recess.
.1 titulary r>, 1920First Day of Winter Qutti-ler.
.......................Union
. . Room 55, Sclonc*
. No ClnsHOH
REGISTRATICIN RECORD1919-1920. 
Division of Sclcitcc and Engineering.
Day
Seniors ........
Juniors .... 
Sophomores 
Freshmen ..
105
1G3
304
594
Night
Fifth Year.........
Fourth year........
Third Year........Second Year ... 
First Year
Total
Total
Day
Seniors ....................................... Ik
Juniors ...................................... 46Sophomores ............................. 75
Freshmen ..................................214
. 25 
. 18 
. 45 
. 40 
.135
Graduate..................... 37
Total ...........................300
Division of the Arts.
Night
Architecture ............. 36Painting & Decoratg GO
Music .......................... '18
Drama ......................... 40
Sculpture .................. 20
'gesiions as to 
improving it were made, 
was suggested that another assist
ant cheer leader be chosen from De
sign School so there can be mass 
cheering in tho grandstand, also that 
but one cheor-loader act at a time and 
that they have uniformity in motion. 
Committees wore appointed to plan 
for special mass cheering for the re
mainder of the football games,A suggestion was made that the 
band play some popular music In ad
dition to the usual selections. The 
ouncil decided to sond a request to 
Mr. Aldorfor to this ofToct.
Objections from tho students con 
irnlng the increase In price at the 
janery were presented and a commiti> was appointed to investigate the 
matter. Tables are to be reserved in 
the beanery for seniors.It was decided to hold the regular 
council meetings on the first and third 
hursduys of every month.
HRAIMETMI LLSBSI PES 
PGPTH HPALSR A
.1,166
.351Total ............................204
Division of Industries.
DayNight
Seniors
Juniors
Upper...........
Middle .........
Second Year 
First Y ear .
Total
. 7Fourth Year......... 11
. 18Third Year ............ 54
. 59Second Year......... 136
122First Year.............. 71-1
. 23General Subjects. 327
. 47
. 12.215
, .503Total .......................1,2421,745
Margaret Morrison Division.
Day
Seniors ..................................... ^
Juniors ...................................... 47
Sophomores ........................... 79
Freshmen ................................
Adv. Stg..................................... 20
Total.358
Division of Applied Psychology.
Day
Graduate .......................
Education .......................... 4 
. .48
Night
Graduato ...................... 3
Teachers ......................17
App. Psychology......... <r*
.. .88Total ..............................27 115
Total Day Students .... .2,466
Total NightStudents ..............1,773 4,239
ALAN BRIGHT, Registrar.
HSPEI THMSESIMTHG MPLj
At the Physics Colloquium last 
Wednesday Mi-. Dietrich, a senior, 
in interesting talk on Lang-wAvt, - 
Brockman, 
muirs nuvV"Vnfeovy ol atoms, i ms 
theory differs radically from the older 
theories of atoms and electrons and 
explains many chemical and physical 
phenomena much bettor. It explains 
in a wonderful way the inert gasses 
and many other elements, and their 
places on the periodic table. Mr. 
Dietrich will continue his talk this 
week. ^______
jlG HTG 0G THIMEA[MOEI
At a dinner at the Oakmont Coun
try Club Mr. Rocnigk announced the 
engagement of his daughter Miss 
Elizabeth .1. Rocnigk to Mr. Freder
ick McIntosh or Glen Osborne. Miss 
Rocnigk is teaching English in Mar
garet Morrison this year and Mr. Mc
Intosh is an instructor in Science 
School. Miss Rocnigk is a graduate 
of Vassal- and has been teaching at 
Margaret Morrison for several years. 
She intends leaving school at the end 
of the semester.
--------ft-----------
One Belt, an Entire Plantand the G. T. M
The proper study of power necessarily in
cludes belts. No matter how competent the 
generative source of your power, the final re
sults from a drive depend on the success of 
the transmission. A belt may even be in 
many respects a good belt and yet fail to de
liver the power load economically because 
ill-adapted to the work required of it. The 
solution of the problem is the right belt for 
the particular need.
This is the idea underlying the service of the 
G.T. M.Goodyear Technical Man. The 
basis of his recommendation for a single drive or an entire plant is careful study of the power 
problem involved. To this analysis he brings the force of experience, the example of hun
dreds of comparative studies, the judgment of 
a man grown expert in the operating and observing of many drives under many conditions. His plan is the scientific method.
After analysis, the right belt is prescribed. Is there heavy duty to be performed? That calls for one type, with the proper number of 
plies. Is light work at high speed the order? 
A belt of different specifications is required. 
All tbs factors of the drivepulley dimen
sions, center-to-center distances, load, alignment and applicationgovern the selection of the right belt for the specific use. The G.T. M. plots these factors with the painstaking exactness of an engineer,
The plant installation here illustratedNast Brothers Lime & Stone Co., at Knowles, Wis.
typifies the value of G.T. M. analysis and Goodyear Belt quality. Two years ago, the 
G.T.M. specified for the Nast plant at Marblehead, Wis., a 6-inch, 4-ply Goodyear Blue 
Streak Belt for the pulverizer drivea beltkilling duty on which a new belt, with luck, sometimes lasted a year. The Goodyear Blue 
Streak for 22 months now has stood up to the 
task so wellconfirmed by performance the G.T.M. s analysissounmistakably that today 
the whole Nast plant at Knowles is standardized on G.T. M. specified Goodyear Belts.
You may expect from Goodyear Belts the
highest values of good belting. Flexible, they hold to the pulleys. Unstitched, they wear 
uniformly. They neither rip nor stretch. 
They^ outwear the average belttheir first cost is but little more. Proof of G.T.M. 
analysis and Goodyear Belt quality is at the command of every concern with a power prob
lem. The G.T.M. service is free. The Goodyear Belt service is built into the belts.
Students and teachers cf engineering who 
would like to know more about the G.T. M. method of drive and plant analysis may find 
much of profit to them in the Goodyear Mechanical Goods Encyclopedia. A request by letter to the nearest Goodyear Mechanical 
Goods Service Station or to Akron will bring one to you.
Tw oPPlawys Wsw i tehhws rPFdy,a
Offices Throughout the World
VA LV ES
FACULTY ENTERTAINS 
FRESHMEN 
On October 21st Miss Merrit, Miss 
Nelson, Miss Kelly and Miss Keefer 
entertained the sections of the Fresh
man Class of which they are the ad
visors. On October 28th Miss Spuirier and Miss Wickert entertained 
their freshmen at a tea in the faculty 
parlors. On October 30tli Miss sevenson, Miss Patton, Miss Roenigh and Miss Rupert entertained at a tea. Mrs. 
Pliieput is chairman of the committee 
of entertainment.
The Second Freshman trial of the 
year 1919-1920 of the School of Ap
plied Industries was held on the after
noon of Wednesday, October 29. Of 
eight culprits brought before the court 
four suffered the extreme penalty.
At 4:20 p. m. the trial opened with 
Judge Heddaeus presiding. Freshman 
Floyds infringement on the regula
tions merited him the traditional hair
cut as an example to all members of 
his class who may have a tendency to 
follow in his footsteps. Freshmen 
Connelly, president of the class, had 
only one defense to the charge ol im
pudence to his peershe could not tell 
upper classmen from Freshman. II 
he has looked into a mirror since lie 
has been able to notice a marked dif
ference. Freshmen Quail Evenscliick 
likewise merited the application of the 
clippers by their severe insolence. 
Freshman McCutcheons resigned ac
ceptance to his just punishment and 
his clean-cut manner won the approv
al of the court and a light chastise
ment. Freshman Joyces innocence 
and respect proved a saviour to him. 
After keeping close company with a 
delapidated shoe for a week he will 
present the same in the assembly as a 
token of his noviciate at tho shrine of 
the Cnrnogio Clan.Once more the wheels have ground 
and any one of the above will tell you 
that they grind excooding small. Why 
such trouble when it is so easy to 
avoid?----------ft----------
SPECIAL RATE FOR CONCERTS
The Pittsburgh Orchestra Associa
tion is offering a special club rate^ of 
$5 for the $10 season tickets on first 
tloor for the inatincc concerts to be 
given at Syria Mosque by the Phila
delphia Orchestra.
This information is given to Tech 
students, in order to give it some pub
licity among those who would be in
terested. It need not be confined to the school, but at least ten season 
tickets must be taken to secure this 
, rate.
ARMISTICE DAY DANCE.
The Navy Club just organized is 
getting under way in snappy fashion. 
They have arranged for a dance for 
all ex-service men, doughboys and 
gobs on the evening of November 11 
to celebrate the first anniversary of 
the signing of the armistice. Altho 
it is not absolutely necessary, it isespecially desired that all men appear in 
uniform. The committee in charge of 
arrangements is as follows: Heywood, 
Templeton, Townsend, Twigg and 
Green. The number of couples will 
be limited to a hundred and twentyfive to prevent over-crowding. (Sug
gestion: get your tickets early.) The 
scene of this celebration will be in the 
Union. Watch bulletin boards for an
nouncement of sale of tickets.
Send home for your uniform now! 
----------ft----------
PRE SIDNTHAHMHADNb b DL PDG[hjElEcHrAchllj PrDpEllE[
BUCKEYE CLUB
The Buckeye Club is a new organi
zation at Tech. Last spring several 
men conceived the idea of forming a 
club to which all men from Ohio 
would be eligible. They thought the 
men would enjoy having a social gath
ering at which the fellows were all 
from Ohio. Consequently the first 
ovcnt of any kind to be given is a 
smoker. Andits going to be some 
smoker, too. Listen, Plebc, just be
cause you dont smoke is no reason for 
you to stay away. Theres going to 
be cats, smokes, drinks, music and 
everything. So get your back against 
a spoke of the wheel and put this 
smoker over the top so that theyll 
know were here. Get on the map 
of C. I. T. by being at the smoker.
----------ft----------
DORM. DANCE 
At a meeting of the Mens Dorms 
last week, it was decided to hold a 
dance. So, on November 15 a dance 
is to be held in the Union. And its 
not going to be a regular dance either. 
Because were going to have good 
music, a good ^ime, and, best of all
T
: .battleship of any nation to be electri
cally propelled, is one of the most important 
achievements of the scientific age. She not 
only develops the maximum power and, 
with electrical control, has greater flexibility
of maneuver, which is a ________
distinct naval advantage, 
but also gives greater econ
omy. At 10 knots, her 
normal cruising speed, she 
will steam on less fuel than 
the best turbine-driven ship 
that preceded her.
Figures that tell the 
Story of Achievement
The electric generating 
plant, totaling 28,000 horse
power, and the propulsion equipment of the 
great super-dreadnaught were built by the 
General Electric Company. Their operation 
has demonstrated the superiority of electric 
propulsion over old-time methods and a 
wider application cf this principle in the 
merchant marine is fast making progress.
Length624 feet Width97 feet Displacement32,000 tons Fuel capacitya million gallons (fuel oil)Power28,000 electrical horse
power Speed21 knots
Six auxiliary General Electric Turbine-Gen
erators of 400 horsepower each, supply 
power for nearly 500 motors, driving pumps, 
fans, shop machinery, and kitchen and laun
dry appliances, etc.
Utilizing electricity to propel ships at sea 
marks the advancement of 
another phase of the elec
trical industry in which the 
General Electric Company 
is the pioneer. Of equal 
importance has been its 
part in perfecting electric 
transportation on land, 
transforming the potential 
energy of waterfalls for use 
in electric motors, develop
ing the possibilities of electric lighting and 
many other similar achievements.
As a result, so general are the applications 
of electricity to the needs of mankind that 
scarcely a home or individual today need 
be without the benefits of General Electric 
products and service.
An illustrated booklet describing the "New Mexico, entitled, 
The Electric Ship, will bs sent upon request. Address 
General Electric Company, Desk 44, Schenectady, New York.
a bunch of preSave me two di :u.es.y girls. Atta boy!
General Office 
Schenectady, N.Y.

---------------------------------------------------

$DG50 to $N5G50
g [AM ROhH YOAE IHOS g 
g SXLSHIS by buying better ji 
! shoesG You will find them far & 
[| cheaper to wear than shoes 
 which are not so high in quality, (a 
 Our new models for bPLL and gG 
[hj hTHMSE are now in, and they S 
are full of snapjust suitable j| 
for the college manG g
 Q
P IMEOHG THIMTMAMTOH
The Mellon National Bank is 
one of the most thoroughly 
organized, strongest financial 
institutions on the country. 
It is in a position to handle 
any account, large or small, 
with care and competency.
MSLLOH HPMTOHPL BPHj
Pittsburgh, Pa.
(SMSM2MSM3/3M3MSM3Ji 
g MEPHITMI PHR LSVSLI 
L PLL IALLLTSI bOE MHS 
REPbMTHG EOOM
Sngineers' Squipment, Tnstru
ments of Lrecision, Blue Lrint 
and Brown Lrint Lapers and 
[lothsG
B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
N26 ITXMH IMESSM
C. I. T. ON SCHENLEY
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
DR. HUGH B. SPEER, Pastor 
Shady and Northumberland Avenues 
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. Preaching- Services, 11:00 A. M. and 8:00 P. M.Young Peoples Service, 7:00 P. M. Brief and Warm-Iiearted Messages. A cordial welcome to all.
x-x**>**! x* >;
 BSLLSbTSLR LESIBYMSETPH 3
X [HAE[H j
5* Bellefield and bifth Pvenues *N,J, iGt, EevG Eobert MacGowan, RG RG,
Y MinisterG
j* Lreaching Iervices NN and 8GX Iunday school at 10G
V [hristian Sndeavor at 7G
X he want the Mech boys to attend our services and learn to 
y know us as the congregation of X "briendly Leople P hearty
< welcome awaits youG 2
YOUNG MAN!
COME TO THE
YOKE FELLOWS 
CLASS
EVERY SUNDAY AT 10:00 A. M.
FIRST BAPTIST CHURCH
BELLFIELD AND BAYARD STS. 
REV. F. T. GALPIN, Teacher. 
OTHER SERVICES 
Friendly Class (Young Women)
10:00 A. M.
Morning Services ...........11:00 A. M.
B. Y. P. U............................. 7:00 P. M.
Evening Sei-vices............... 7:45 P. M.
COME AND BRING A FRIEND
bTEIM [G SG IO[TSMY MSSMTHG HAGS IA[[SII
On Wednesday evening, October 29 
the Civil Engineering Society held its 
first meeting of the year, and some 
meeting it was, even if we do say it 
ourselves. There were about 50 men 
present from the three upper classes.
J. D. Beatty, who is president of the 
society acted as chairman, and after 
calling the meeting to order explain
ed for the benefit of the sophomores 
the idea and purpose of the C. E. So
ciety.
Among other things, he pointed out 
that the purpose was to promote good 
fellowship and to create greater in
terest in Civil Engineering. The chair
man showed a spontaneous Irish wit, 
that was a soui-ce of much entertain
ment.
Prof. McCullough, who is the head 
of the department, was then called 
on for a few words, and that reminded 
him of a little story of a freshman 
who(See Prof. McCullough, person
ally, for story). Prof. McCullough 
dwelt particularly on the desirability 
of ones getting school activities in 
ones spare time. (Faint groans from 
sophs at this point.)
The speaker of the evening, Prof. 
Stanton, who was a major in the 15th 
Engineers gave a snappy, interesting 
talk on the work of the American 
Engineers in France. This work con
sisted, primarily, in developing an ef
ficient railway system. The presenta
tion of the railroad problem involved 
was quite instructive. It was an in
teresting fact to find out that the 15th 
Engineers were the first armed for
eign troops to land in England since 
the year 105G.
The Senior Civils who were at 
Camp Louise Carnegie with Prof. 
Stanton, and who hoped he would nar
rate some wild stories of France and 
the French people with illustrations 
from La Pariessienne were fooled, 
for his talk, though interesting, was 
also moral.
The meeting adjourned to the Sci
ence Club Room, where hot, buttered 
weiners, warm, crisp rolls, appetizing 
sweet pickles and excellent coffee and 
also smokes were the attractions. 
Here we must give credit to W. E. 
Baron, chairman of the eats commit
tee for the unequalled spread. We 
havent gotten over it yet.
Some of the good old songs that 
were sung by the Civils at Camp Lou
ise Carnegie, and also some of the bad 
old songs were sung toward the con
clusion of the evening, so that when 
things broke up everyone left in the 
highest spirits fully convinced that 
this year would be a big worth-while 
year for the C. E. Society.
P8[SHITOH SLTI[OLPL [HAE[H 
Sllsworth Pvenue and Heville Itreet 
REG hYPMM BEOhH, Eector 
REG EOII EG [PLVTH, PssistantG 
Iunday Iervices, D:00 PG MG, NN:00 
PG MG and D:00 LG MG
[ollege Mens Bible [lass at N0:00, 
led by RrG [alvinG
Pll Itudents Genuinely helcomeG
Fraternity Notes
DELICIOUS CAKES
------for------
SOCIAL AFFAIRS
THE HALLER BAKERY
3610 FORBES STREET 
IROQUOIS BLOCK
Grace Church
(Eeformed)
BPYPER and RTMHETRGS IMESSMI 
bESRSET[j [G HPA, MinisterG 
ISEVT[SI:
Iunday Ichool9:45 PG MG
Morning horshipNN PG MG 
[hristian Sndeavor7 LG MG 
Lopular Svening Iervices at 7:45G 
Iermons for Head and HeartG 
Hearty helcome for PllG
ST. PAULS CATHEDRAL Fifth Ave. and Craig St.
Masses: 6:30, D:00, 9:00G N0:00 and 
NN:00 PG MG on Iundays and Holy 
RaysGVespers on Iundays at 7:30 LG MG 
Lew 5D, Middle Pisle, for Mech ItudentsG
@911!ni!i!}n!tiUUiIIl!^:aill!UHaiiHlUliliUllilitllJIili!iDUilllfllllill3iil!ni[!l]Ii!lliiS3@
SKIB0 INN
EATS
Cigars and Candy
BellSchenley 389
1 MISS OLEARY
(Formerly with J. E. T. Shuman) 
DRY CLEANINGREPAIRING 
Ladies' and Mon's Clothes, Carpets Rugs, Fortiers 
Work G unrun teed and Turned Out on Short Notice.
Will call for all pressing and cleaning at Frat Houses.
3933 FORBES STREET (Oakland) PITTSBURGH. PA.
NEWNAN HARRIS
of Pittsburgh
FINE SHOE REPAIRING
Special facilities for repairing 
ladies shoes.
Work done while you wait^if.-
Botiquet St.
necessari ' 
11 Fifth ; VCorner B
PHI EPSILON PI.
Our hearts are out in sincerest sym
pathy for Frater David Abrams, at 
the sad loss he sustained last week, 
in the death of his beloved brother. 
We feel inadequate to express our re
gret, and only hope that we will soon 
see Lefty again as cheerful as for
merly.
The chapter takes pleasure in an
nouncing the marriage of one of its 
charter members, A. N. Krieger 16 to 
Miss Pauline Puicus of this city, on 
Tuesday evening, November 4tli.
--------------------
DELTA UPSILON.
Brother Burke was the chapter dele
gate to the Delta Upsilon convention 
which was held at the University of 
Toronto on Friday the 2lth and Sat
urday the 25th. The business sess
ions were all day Friday and Saturday 
morning. But the convention was not 
all business. On Friday evening there 
wus a dinner dance. And the girls 
oh boy you ought to go to Toronto! 
On Saturday afternoon the delegates 
gave the university the once over and 
in the evening there was a banquet 
which left nothing to be desired. 
Brother Burk wishes he could attend 
a convent'0- ~ week-end.
Brother Herbert W. Congdon, the 
secretary of the fraternity paid us a 
visit on Friday. He has been going 
to quite a number of the chapters on 
the way home from the convention.
The chapter is organizing a foot
ball team, but have not yet wrecked 
the parlor.
A dance was held in the house on 
Halloween night. The decorations 
were all in keeping with Halloween. 
There were cornstalks above the 
doors an don the banisters. The man
tle in the living room was decorated 
with cornstalks and a large pumpkin. 
The draperies were yellow with black 
cats and witches stenciled on them. 
The music was fine, the refreshments 
were fine, evrything was fine, and ev
eryone had a line time.
--------------------
SIGMA RHO.
The Sigma Rho social calendar real
ly opened last Thursday evening when 
the active chapter gave a dance in 
honor of the pledges. The dance 
which was held at the home of broth
er Diercks, proved to be an immense 
success, and points to a pleasant year 
ahead of Sigma Rho. Mr. and Mrs. 
Stevenson acted as chaperons.
Last Saturday night the second al
umni banquet of the year was held 
at the Fort Pitt. Among other promi
nent Betas present was Dr. Barker, 
secretary of the Institution. Other 
guests included Mr. Stevenson, Prof. 
Crabtree, the new initiates, and the 
pledges. A great deal of enthusiasm 
was displayed throughout the evening, 
and everyone left declaring the affair 
the best yet.
----------D----------
TAU GAMMA PHI.
The first informal dance was held 
at the fraternity house on Halloween 
night. In spite of the disagreeable 
weather the evening proved to be a 
most enjoyable one. The committee 
in charge had outdone themselves in 
the matter of decorations; everything 
had put on an appearance of Hallowen celebration. Several alumni 
were among the guests of the eve
ning. The best surprise of the oc
casion to some, was the unique lunch
eon served at intermission. The allimportant question after the affair 
had ended seemed to be, how soon do 
we plan for the next one.
The fraternity wishes to announce 
the entrance into membership of the 
following men of the Division of Sci
ence: B. T. Anthony 21, H. II. Bur
dick 22, and E. T. Weiss 22.
Among our visitors of the last 
week, we enjoyed the company of Mr. 
L. C. Smith 19 Design.
----------$----------
KAPPA SIGMA RHO.
For the first time since he left 
Tech in the spring of 18 Wm. Leard 
returned to the old camping grounds 
last Thursday to see the boys once 
more. He spent the evening at the 
house but his limited time cut short 
many proposed visits. He intends to 
return to Tech next fall.
Practically all of the old guard (to 
use Dean Connellys pet phrase) will 
remember E. L. Cue Ball Perkins. 
We regret to announce he will not re
turn to school and is as yet undecided 
whether or not he shall remain in
Pittsburgh. However, we hope for 
the best.
Unforeseen complications have un
fortunately caused Pledge Thomas 
Gracie to discontinue his term at pres
ent but the fraternity hopes to see 
him again on initiation night
----------a----------
WOODLAWN CLUB.
A regular old-fashioned Halloween 
party and dance was held at the fra
ternity house on Thursday evening, 
October 30.
Games and stunts, some of them by 
professional entertainers took up the 
first part of the event, while dancing 
to a jazz orchestra livened up the 
later hours. The decorations of 
pumpkins, cornstalks, and other Hal
loween symbols fairly transformed 
the house.
The thirty couples present pro
nounced the affair about tho best ever. 
The ghost story proved a trifle too 
realistic for some of the ladies pres
ent, but the lunch served immediately 
afterward served to quiet their nerves.
ES[STVS RS[OEPMTOHI
The Science Assembly on the twen
ty-ninth opened with the singing of 
Dear Old Tech, followed by a short 
speller. There were a number of an
nouncements, among which '
of. the- Sf.iffitco- Club ,mg.
Since furniture is badly'needed in the 
club room a collection was taken at 
the door at the end of the meeting.
The chicf business of the assembly 
was in the hands of the Plebe Regula
tions Cpmmittee. PofTenbach gave a 
talk on the regulations, explaining 
that they were not meant to impose 
hardships on tho freshmen as much 
as to uphold Tech traditions, lie also 
said that the committee would take 
drastic measures if the regulations 
were broken and proceeded to prove 
his statement in a very graphic man
ner.
Three Plebes were accused of vio
lating various rules and found guilty 
in various degrees by the high and 
austere court of judges. They were 
sentenced to dire punishment and 
members of tho sophomore class were 
commissioned to execute the prison
ers.
Two of the wayward freshment 
were sentenced to decoration a la G. 
G. OBrian. Paint pots and brushes 
in the hands of dexterous Sophs per
formed wonderful transformations. 
One of the criminals had a cubist imprissionistic creation The Sun Set
ting Just Before Night painted on 
his left cheek. On the right cheek the 
rising sun was portrayed. The work 
was done entirely in three colors. The 
other victim of paint had a similar 
work of art painted on his cheeks. 
The Plebe Regulations Committee 
was so charmed with the work that 
they ordered the victims not to re
move it till Friday evening.
The other guilty Plebe was subject
ed to a marvelous tonsorial operation, 
A pair of nice sharp clippers in the 
hands of accomplished sophs wrought 
a marvelous change in the condemned 
mans hair. When they were thru 
said Plebe looked like a cross-eyed 
Chinaman trying to imitate an In
dians head dress, but with doubtful 
success. The sophs retained the clip
pers for further use.
hOEjObI[HOOLObREPMP BETHGI HOMT[SPBLS ESIALMI
SXHTBTM Ob LPTHMTHGI TH
MHS PEMI
Students of Carnegie Tech who ap
preciate art have a splendid opportu
nity in the exhibit by members of the 
faculty of the Division of the Arts, 
which is now hanging in the exhibi
tion room of the Arts Building.
Members of the faculty who have 
contributed to the exhibit include 
Prof. Hubbell, Dr. Savage, Mr. Tay
lor, Mr. Bicknell, Mr, Petrovitz, Mr, 
Radio, and Mr. Topp.
In addition to the paintings on 
show, the department of architecture 
has a small exhibit and the school of 
sculpture has some student work on 
exhibition.
FOUND
kj A case containing pair of glass- f 
gj es was found on campus on Oc- \ 
g tober 31st. Owner may obtair. = 
j them by callilig at the Office of | 
m the Dean of ,Vlen.
jyiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiraiiiHiii^
The coming two weeks will be very 
busy ones for the Drama Department. 
Many plays are now under direction 
and by the end of the week all the 
plays for the coming two weeks will 
be either well under way or else com
pleted. There will be three night per
formances as well as the regular Fri
day afternoon matinees, giving every
body a chance to see the good work 
this department is doing.
The following Is tho program that 
has just been given out by Mr. Stevons and Is subject to change.
Friday MatineeNov. 7th at four 
oclock:
Back of tho Yards,
Mai*ys Lamb.
Saturday nightNov. 8th:
Land of Heart's Desire,
Well of the Saints.
TuesdayNov. lltliVictory Day: 
Marys Lamb Written and 
produced by Mr. Hubert Os
born.
"Blackberrying Written and 
producod by Mr. Howard 
Smith.
The Disguise Produced By 
Mr. Osborne.
The Nursery Maid of TIeavon 
Written and produced by 
Mr. Thomas Wood Stevens.
\yci\nesduy, Nov. 12th and Thurs
day). Nov. 13th fill1 II*.
Marys Lamb, 
Blackberrying,
The Disguise,
Nursery Maid of Heaven.
Friday Matineo, Nov. 14th: 
Nursery Maid of Heaven.
Many of the plays are being re
hearsed. Mr. Wallaco is producing a 
three-act comedy drama, Tho Throo 
of Us, the latter part of tho month.----#-------
MhO HSh OHS-P[M LSPjI 
LESISHMSR bETRPY PM bOAE
This coming Friday the Drama De
partment will carry out its regular 
policy of the afternoon matinee. Since 
the school opened this term those af
ternoons have been looked forward 
to with great interest and enjoyment. 
This Fridays matinee will be espe
cially interesting as tho two one-act 
plays that are to be presented come 
near home in that one was written 
by Mr. Osborn the new assistant pro
fessor in Drama and the other by the 
late Kenneth Goodman who had been 
so closely associated with Mr. Stevens. 
The matinee begins at four oclock, 
thus giving the other departments a 
chance to attend.
The play by Mr. Goodman entitled, 
Back of the Yards is a tense oneact melodrama of the Irish tenement 
stockyard district of Chicago, It is 
a very modern play dealing with a 
very modern problem.
The Cast is as follows:
A Priest.......................Howard Smith
A Police Sergeant. .Alexander Buch..
A Police Sergeant...............
Alexander Buchanan
A Mother ........................... Anna Dice
A Girl ....................................Para Floyd
A Boy.....................Kenneth Thomson
The second play, Marys Lamb, 
written by Hubert Osborn, is also 
modemvery modern. As for deal
ing with a problem, perhaps it does, 
if you can see beneath the fiun of it, 
but its real aim, we believe, is to 
amuse. The cast is not as yet an
nounced.----------O---------
ALPHA PI FRATERNITY.
A new fraternity by the above name 
has been inaugurated at Carnegie 
Tech. It is the result of the associa
tion of a number of men who have 
been in contact with each other for 
several years.
The organization plans have been 
completed, and the installation cere
monies were held at a smoker which 
took place on Monday evening, Octo
ber 27, at which all the members and 
several friends of the fraternity were 
present.
Prospects for an active year are 
extremely bright, and the fraternity 
hopes to carry out some plans for ac
tivities in the near future. It is also 
hoped that by the first of the year 
this fraternity, which is now local, 
will become a national.
----------Kf----------
DEAN BREED ILL.
Dean Breed has been confined to 
her home in Westminister Place with 
tonsilitis. Miss Bi-eed has been away 
from school since Friday. It is ex
pected she will be back next week.
Our chain-store system affords wortk-\vliile 
sayings. Visit our stoie nearest you and be 
convinced. Correct fit and satisfaction 
guaranteed.
OUR OWN RETAIL STORES AT
AKRON, Ohio...........................124 S. Main St.
CLEVELAND, Ohio.503-505 Prospect Ave.
MILWAUKEE, Wis.................192 Third St.
PITTSBURGH, Pa.................507 Market St.
PITTSBURGH, Pa.. .209-11 Smitlifield St.
PITTSBURGH, Pa............932 Liberty Ave.
READING, Pa.............................751 Penn St.
SCHENECTADY, N. Y.. .302-304 State St.
SYRACUSE, N. Y..............138 S. Salinn St.
TERRE HAUTE, Ind... .410 Wabash Ave.
WILKES-BARRE, Pa............66 S. Main St.
YOUNGSTOWN O.. 107-109 W. Federal St.
We will open stores at Scranton, Pa., and 
Trenton, N. J., early in 1920.
(Hfa/S/^/P/i^/i^i^/p/SiiiiranPiaiS/^n^ipiPiiaiiOfpiiiiifpJiiananaiiOfiiiriOiioisirafsirarararaQfsirarannranniacii
M
OST men prefer the pipe to any other form /HiTnokinii. 
There's comfort, contentment, real satisfaction and 
economy in a good pipe. VV D C Pipes give you this, and 
more. A special seasoning process makes tho gunuinu I'romh 
briar bowl break in sweet and mellow. Pick a |(ood shape 
at your nearest dealer::, at your price,
Wm. DEMUTH 6c CO.. new YORK
hOELR'I LPEGSIM MPjSEI OT; LT MA L | ( [ 5
"I...
OPEN DAY AND NIGHT
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiuiiiiiii 
PARK 411-R
EAT AT THE
SAVOY RESTAURANT
SPECIAL STUDENTS LUNCH
3807 FIFTH AVE.
HELLO, BILL, MEET ME AT THE
OAKLAND KITCHEN
116 OAKLAND AVENUE
piiliililiiilllplllillllllllllll
OAKLAND HARDWARE COMPANY 
g Pocket Knives Mazda Lamps I
3606 FORBES STREET
illlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllI
Formerly of William Penn and Fort Pitt Hotel 
I AM SERVING
;---------------A---------------
Clean, Wholesome and Home Cooked Dinner for 35c
---------------At----------------STANDARD RESTAURANT
3621 FIFTH AVENUE NEAR ATWOOD STREET
OAKLAND SAVINGS & TRUST COMPANY
Member Federal Reserve System 
Capital - - - $200,000.00 
Surplus and Undivided
Profits - - $260,000.90 
Deposits, Over - $4,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
Agcncy. fi)
OPjLPHR SXLESII PHR 
MEPHIbSE [OML*
Bell Lhonos 67D & 9N69 Ichenley 
LG A. PG N092-E 
229 PMhOOR IMESSM 
LTMMIBAEGH, LPG 
Houuehold Good Moved, Itored, 
Laokod and Ihlppe/dG
THE PLACE WHERE
STUDENTS *
TAKE THEIR SHOES
Bellefield 
Shoe Repairing Co.
Across from the Library
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 1919.THE TARTANPAGE THREE
gjg/^53J5!3JSJS/SSJSSSJ/SJSSISI23oirinsnHia
LG LAOSBASHL PHO IOH
LSHH PHR bp P HjIMOhH 
PVSHASI
^5J5J5/5Ja/a55/5EJ5EEE/aJ5i5B/BBJ5iafi9/5j55JSlSl^"SSJ5JaJ5M5J5Jajaai5J5aiai5Bia
Good Clothes
FOR COLLEGE MEN
There is WeW excelling style atmosphere 
about our clothes which make them instant
ly popular.
They appeal to college men not alone be
cause of their dominating style, but largely 
on account of the high-grade tailoring and 
serviceable fabrics.

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 1919.THE TARTAN
If the shoe fits put it on if it doesn't 
help put it on the guy that it does fit. 
That is Eoost Tech by getting on the 
job yourself.THE CAMPUS ANVIL
Dear Ed.
Why is it, Ed., that the Maggie 
Murphs always pick out the muddiest 
spot to cross the street?
RPH[THG LSIIOHI[LPII PHR LETVPMS
ITS A MEAN THING TO SAY, 
BUT
I think the Maggie Murphs are fine;
If 1 wasn't a plebe I would
And a lot of the Janes in the School 
of Design
Are marvels of maidenhood.
But there's one thing about some that 
1 detest:
That's the way they walkalways six 
abreast,
And make you go into the street.
it;; polite to give them the right of 
way,
It's the manly thing to do
When you have a dry, sunshiny day,
When rains arc short and few;
IJut it' hard on your temper and 
worse on your shoes
When they make you wade in the mud 
and the dews
Or make you walk in the street.
I guess that's a mighty mean thing 
to say
And they may not like it a bit.
You say a gentleman wouldnt talk 
that way?
A lady would, youll admit,
If she had to walk in the slush and 
the mud;
If real estate off of her spats shed 
scrub,
After shed walked in the street.
The man who is the best student is 
often least educated.[EPTG PHR bOEBSI
WEEKLY HEALTH HINT.
Dont ask Coach Steffen why we 
lost to Lehigh.
Be a MIXERmix some play into 
your schedule along with the work. 
Too much of either is bad.package
before
After watching the way that bird 
toed the pigskin last Saturday we 
know why they have Moon in Moon
shine.
BATTERY
PRES ISID
SERVICE
You get out of college only as much 
a.! you put into it.
According to that getting canned 
would be too good for some fellows.436 SEVENTH AVE. 
All Kinds of Batteries 
Repaired and Recharged
An apple a day keeps the doctor 
away.Clipping.
Yes, but believe us you have to 
twirl a wicked wing.package
during
College spirit is something deeper 
than cheering at a college athletic 
contest.
packageHELP!MURDER!POLICE!!
Second Story Morry Will 
Enter the DormitoryLASTS
TOMORROWYEP! THURSDAY AT 4:31 1-2 P. M.ODE TO TINY.
We rarely slam your beans and ham 
at your head we seldom falter. Eut 
when you next serve up a horse, oh, 
please leave out the halter.
PlebeGot anything for the head
ache, Doc.?
Dr. MarksBetter go down to the 
gym and see the bone-setter.
Wilbur Cooperthe famous Pirate South-Paw will also 
be there. Shake hands with him and talk things over. 
Dont let such opportunity pass by.
STUDENTS WELCOME 
Fred Suddaby's Cafeteria
BUREAU OF MINES BUILDING
11 A. M. to 2 P. M. 4:0WF.0 School Dayand STYLE SHOW SMOKES, MUSIC, etcGood Fellowship Gathering
SECOND STORY MORRY
CLOTHES TO TECHITES 
FIF AND ZWOOD
Open Monday, Wednesday, Saturday Evening (The Nights YOU Dont Study)
The trustees must have a hunch we 
are going to win tho Pitt game. They 
are beginning to burn up the old 
boardwalks already.
One of the candidates for plebe 
president ran on the platform of No 
Beer, No Work. Why bother to 
count the votes.All the world 
loves a loverDear Ed.
Can you tell me how to work those 
new sugar isolators over in the bean
ery. Plebe.
Ed.Say, if you find out let me 
know.And all discriminating 
lovers of cigarettes love 
Murads
Because Murads are pure Turk
ish, the worlds most famous tobacco 
for cigarettes.
And the Fame of Murads grows 
and grows and growsthey are 100 
per cent Turkish, and they are 1 00 
per cent popular with connoisseurs 
everywhere.
It is true that ordinary 
cigarettes cost a trifle less.
war-round soft drink
1st Soph.Understand they lead 
a trial of some frosh the other day? 
Soph. 2Yeh! sort of getting the 
plea out of the plebes.
ror college men, business men, professional 
men, men of sports 
baseball, football, golf, 
tennis, shooting, riding. 
For everybody, every
where, the year round, 
Bevo is hale refresh
ment for wholesome 
thirstan invigorating 
soft drink. Ideal for the 
athlete or the man in 
physical or mental train
ing good to train on 
and gain on. Healthful 
and appetizing. It must 
be ice cold.
The first bis- job for every athlete 
: Keep up your studies.
JR. MECH. NIGHT-MARE.
Sine squared Theta walked quite ft,
To old Simpsons Rule and said, 
Modulus Elastic Limit 
To Miss Pi times G is wed 
Cycloid Gear 
Pitched a tear 
And IIy Perbola dropped dead.
Differential Integrated.
Heaved a parabolic sigh 
For ho loved her most addendum
And without her he must die...
M times A 
Heard them say 
Walls will equal 13 times 1.
Judge for yourself/
ilsOneBltB,aEltie 
St. LouisMBB T [ ; |i| N m
Abfas(flkHditf(hideffi/ft and Ejypiia/i uganiksm iheWbrRheostat then solcnoided,
Circuit broke he for the door 
Grams and dynes they had to Yield 
Point
1 d Theta rose and swore,
Then smashcrash 
Like a flash 
I woke upupon the floor.
Every real Tech student should get 
into some form of college activity.
Serve it cold
