Co ref(Jaran
(Jar VIII. No. 19 nVI.No. 1I9ToThT. Je u.cmIJaJNtf doTT9phVNmf d.II9tasnIoni.pVhnVt gf Pb
II DRAMATIC
SCHOOL OPENS
DESCRIPTION OF 
THEATRE.
The announcement of a department 
of drama has created so much inter
est among the residents of Pittsburgh 
and Western Pennsylvania that have 
a leaning toward the diversified ac
tivities of the stage that Prof. Thomas 
Wood Stevens has given a description 
of the theater and the announcement 
is made of the retention of Donald 
Robertson, the pioneer of the modern 
repertoire movement, to instruct the 
students in the art of acting.
The School of Applied Design, of 
which the department of dramatic art 
is a part, houses many of the popular 
activities of the institute, but none is 
attracting any more favorable notice 
-than the possibilities that this course 
offers was opened this week. 
f f The spacious entrance to the theater in the Design school building, in 
which one Shakespearean production 
will be given each year on the birth
day of the bard, April 23, is from a 
monumental stone vestibule. The 
seating is all on one floor. The room 
is elliptical in form, the long axis be
ing 62 feet, parallel with the arch, 
and the short axis 56 feet. The boxes, 
at the rear of the room, are high 
enough to give the occupants a good 
view of the stage. The organ cham
ber is to the right of the stage, open
ing directly into the theater, the or
gan being screened by tapestries. 
Fabrics designed in keeping with the 
screening occupy the three panels to 
the left of the stage and curtain 
forms part of the same decorative 
scheme. The ventilation is through 
the floor, being under each seat, and 
the exhaust is provided in a pierced 
decorative band around the ceiling.
From floor to ceiling the walls are 
panelled in straight white oak in nat
ural coloring, decorated by plaster 
carvings, and the main section with 
inlay. Above the stage the inlay has 
been wrought into an inscription ici 
linspiration deploye ses ailes. Fram
ing the opening are two oak columns 
of monumental size supporting the 
frieze carrying the above inscription, 
with carved caps which characterize 
the whole scheme of decoration 
both for wood and plaster. The plas
ter ceiling forms a wide decorative 
band about the opening for a skylight 
in white and amber shades. The sky
light can be darkened in daytime by 
means of an electrical device. The 
Continued on Page 4
FOREIGN VISUMS DE
LIGHTED WITH SCHOOL
NOTED JAPANESE INSPECT 
SCHOOL.
DULL RESUMES CHARGE 
Of TRACK SQUAD
QUARTER MILERS ARE MUCH 
IN DEMAND.
Three very prominent Japanese vis
ited the Schools last Thursday after
noon and expressed themselves de
lighted with what they saw. They 
were Tokichi Watanabe, known as 
the John D. Rockefeller of Japan, 
chairman of Nagaska  Chamber of 
Commerce and managing director of 
the Hoden Oil Co.; Tokutaro Komat
su, chief engineer of the Hoden Oil 
Co., and Tomotsu Hirota, American 
representative of Mitsu and Co., the 
largest banking establishment of 
Japan. The latter acted as interpreter. 
They were accompanied by Mr. F. W. 
Miner, of the National Supply Co., 
who entertained them during their 
three days. stay in Pittsburgh.
Dean Connelley took them for a 
two hours tour through the buildings, 
explaining the work of each school. 
After the tour Mr. Watanabe, through 
his interpreter, spoke as follows:
My deductions are, so far, in com
paring the schools of this country with 
those of Japan, that the time required 
to finish education in Japan covers too 
long a period. That is, too many 
years, taking seventeen years. As you 
know, the Japanese education lies 
mostly in books, not in practice. Those 
who graduate from the Universities 
spend many useful years which might 
be actually of benefit to the business 
world. The system of the schools in 
the United States if entirely different 
from what we have in Japan, as we 
have observed in California and other 
places visited. As I find, as stated 
before, that your education is not pure
ly academic but rather an education 
of practice. Therefore, all graduates 
of any kind can be independent as 
soon as he has graduated. Now, I 
think this system has brought tremen
dous results, as to the prosperity and
industries of this country. The im
provements in this country have been 
remarkable, and greater than any other 
country as compared with the Euro
pean countries.
Today, I have observed this school 
thoroughly, and wish to emphasize the 
idea that the practical part is the im
portant part. We are trying to learn
good method of education from the 
United States as much as possible. 
The students have the appearance of 
being fitted for their work; in other 
words, all kinds of study to suit the 
student. While in Japan the school
Early this week, Coach Dull re
sumed active charge of the track 
squad after an interim of two months. 
From now until the close of school, 
he will be on hand every afternoon 
at 5 oclock to put the men through 
their paces. During the next few 
days, he will be busy with the men 
who will take part in the Y. M. C. A. 
Meet on February 21st. Several of 
them have been training for the past 
month and should be in good condi
tion by that time. Tech will be rep
resented in the sprints, two mile race, 
high jump and mile relay. Kirk, who 
is probably the fastest man in school, 
but who has hitherto preferred base
ball to track, will run in the dashes. 
King will be in the high jump and 
Haselton in the long distance event. 
The latter has been troubled with a 
strained tendon in his foot, but hones 
to be in shape to compete. The most 
important race will be the mile re
lay, which at this time of the season 
is the one every college strives hard
est to win. In the past two years, 
Tech has won second place and wants 
to make the third attempt the best. 
Furthermore, a victory will brighten 
our prospects for sending a team to 
the annual relay races at Philadelphia 
in April.
The entries for the meet to be held 
Saturday a week closed yesterday, too 
late for publication. A complete list 
of Tech entrants will appear in the 
next issue of the Tartan.
JUNIATA WINS 
(LOSE GAME
PULLS AHEAD IN LAST FEW 
MINUTES.
Juniata won on their own floor at 
Huntington on Friday night, Febru
ary 6, by a score of 33 to 28. Still with
out the speed and team-work that 
Capt. Criswell encouraged, the Plaid 
five put up a plucky fight. When the 
game ended, they had the home team 
fagged and were pushing them to the 
wall, boosting the score from 18 to 28 
in the last five minutes. The time
keepers whistle kept the Skibos from 
nosing out ahead, but they had cut 
down the lead to five points. Hines 
played a spectacular floor game, seem
ing to be in two places at one time. 
Colvin spoiled his offensive work by 
some needless holding on defense, but 
altogether played creditably. Tumpane was given little chance to prove 
his value, but contributed to the team
work.
The score:
Carnegie Tech28 Juniata33
Tumpane...................F....................Bigler
Levy............................F............ H. Landis
Colvin................... ...C..............Replogle
Douthett...................G.............. Manbeck
Hines..........................G.................. Horner
Substitutions: Ankeny for Landis, 
Henning for Levy. Field Goals: 
Tumpane 2, Colvin 3, Hines 3, Douth
ett, Levy, Bigler 3, Replogle 4, Man
beck, Ankeny. Foul Goals: Colvin 8 
out of 16, Bigler 13 out of 24. Referee: 
Troogh. Score of first half: Juniata 
20, Carnegie 11.
BASKET BALL TEAM AT BETH
ANY TOMORROW.
requires students to take all courses, 
whether fitted for it or not.
The principal source of civilization 
to Japan was brought to the Japanese 
by Perry, 60 years ago. After that peri
od came the methods from Germany. 
Things adopted from Germany have 
been mostly from books, and not for 
practice.
Japan from now on is going to study 
from United States instead of Ger
many. All business men have the same 
opinion in that respect. In other 
words we regard the United States as 
our teacher.
JUNIOR PROM. 
FEBRUARY 20.
After the Science students have 
concluded their inspection visits, the 
Dasket ball team will close the week 
by inspecting the basket ball aggrega
tion at Bethany College. We hope a 
favorable report will be returned tell
ing that Bethany was found to our 
liking. They have a formidable com
bination, especially on the defense, 
which will keep our forwards mov
ing to run up a score. Captain Cris
well is yet unable to resume his po
sition.
If Techs record so far this season 
may be considered an indication of luture results, we are due to win the 
next two games for the victories and 
defeats have occurred in pairs. After 
a weeks rest, the team should regain 
its form and be able to land tomorrow 
niehts contest against the West Vir---------------------------------------------------

aOty* Sarlatt
(Hit? (Harlan
Published weekly by Undergradu
ates of the Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
Business communications should be 
addressed to the BUSINESS MAN
AGER; all articles should be sent to 
.he EDITOR-IN-CHIEF.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
Yearly $1.50. 5c per Copy
Entered in the Post Office of Pitts
burgh as second class matter.
Chas. E. Gilson, 14. .Editor-in-Chief
G. Guy Kelcey, 14........Business Mgr.
W. H. Searight, 16.. Managing Editor
C. B. Kline.....................Athletic Editor
Ruth Gubtil, 14...M. M. C. S. Editor
A. H. McGill, 14...........Science Editor
Carl C. Manchester, 16.Design Editor 
J. M. Parke, 14.... Industries Editor 
Wm. M. Sheldon, 15.Exchange Editor
D. L. Mathias, 14.Staff Photographer 
A. Cowan, 15...Asst. Business Mgr.
E. S. Rauh, *15..Asst. Athletic Editor
Harold Knight, 16......................Reporter
P. N. Bossart, 16........................Reporter
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible 
for the editorial policy of this paper; 
the Managing Editor for the news 
items and general make-up.
PITTSBURGH, PA., FEB. 12 , 1914
THE STUDENTS RELATION
WITH THE FACULTY.
The actual life of a University 
comes from the association, for better 
or worse, of faculty and students. 
With this statement we most heartily 
agree. It is unfortunate that so many 
students miss that opportunity which 
is afforded in American colleges to 
become personally acquainted with 
the members of the faculty. The good 
to the student from' close personal 
contact with that high type of culture 
and refinement represented by our col
lege faculties is immeasurable; we 
like to think that this advantage is 
not one-sided, but that both faculty 
and students derive mutual pleasure 
from a close inter-relationship. A 
student cannot learn to know his pro
fessors merely from their discourses 
in class. Though these are undoubt
edly valuable in their place, there is 
unavoidedly something of the imper
sonal connected with the class-room.
Here we have a most carefully se
lected group of educators; to associ
ate with these men and women should 
be a part of our tram ng, and we re
joice that we are enabled to share 
this relationship. The following let
ter received by us is an illustration 
of what members of the Science fac
ulty and their wives are thinking and 
planning along this line:
At a recent meeting of the wives of 
members of the School of Applied
Science Faculty, it was suggesteu'that 
an attempt be made to develop a closs^ 
er relationship with the student Dody. 
A Ways and Means Committee was 
appointed to arrange for more fre
quent meetings between the students 
and faculty in a social wayto assist 
students by suggestions of advice, IF 
DESIRED, and to increase in any 
way the closer personal feeling, the 
sense of community of interest, and 
the school spirit, so that the students 
may feel that in the faculty wives they 
have made personal friends, not only 
for the present, but for all time, who 
are willing and anxious to show their 
interest in everything pertaining to 
the student life, by being ready at any 
time to offer their services to the 
students if requested to do so.
The members of this Committee 
are as follows: Mrs. John H. Leete,
Chairman, Mrs. Samuel Keller, Mrs. 
Harry Hower, Mrs. Charles Stanton, 
and Mrs. Fred Crabtree.
Certainly the Scic.ice students will 
feel grateful for the interest that is 
thus being demonstrated in their stu
dent life, and we hope they may avail 
themselves of the advantages to be 
derived from this offer
DORMITORIES.
We have heard so often that the 
student body here has no school spir
it, that they show this by their small 
attendance at football games, and by 
their general indifference towards 
matters of school activity. Although 
this is a hard accusation, we are in
clined to believe that the charge is to 
some extent justifiable, and we feel 
confident that an explanation of this 
lack of spirit lies mainly in the ab
sence of dormitories. Nothing else 
can do so much to bring the students 
together in their personal life, to weld 
their interests into one common ambi
tion for the success of their school, 
and to diminish among the fraternities 
that feeling of self-sufficiency which 
does so much harm to a school and 
its student body.
A couple of months ago, John Cor
bin in the Century Magazine, dis
cussed The Struggle for College 
Democracy and described the resi
dential halls now being built at Har
vard. These halls will house the en
tire Freshman class, of course except
ing those who live at home in Boston 
and suburDs. Each hall is to have its 
own dining rooms and kitchen. Cor
bin believes that the new halls will 
be a decided factor at Harvard in pro
moting coliege democracy. At Co
lumbia also there are a considerable 
number of students living in resident
ial halls. According to the Columbia 
Alumni News, these are open to stu
dents of all schools and classes, are 
lived jn by men who represent all 
schools, and who come from nearly 
every state in the Union. They in
clude a good percentage of self-sup
porting students. ihey are centres 
of community life, ior they are resi
dential halls in the truest sense of 
the term. Each has its own social
room, which is used as a daily meet
ing place for smokers, impromptu 
concerts, afternoon teas, and other so
cial functions. At Harvard each hall 
is to have its own master and staff of 
proctors, but at Columbia the halls 
are self-governing, and each is under 
the management of a Hall Commit
tee of ten residents together with 
the Superintendent of Buildings and 
Grounds.
These are not the only institutions 
in the country which have realized 
that dormitories are necessary to pro
mote school spirit and student de
mocracy. We might mention Penn
sylvania, or a dozen other large 
schools in this country, to say noth
ing of Oxford and Cambirdge in Eng
land, where a man ieels as much re
spect and love for his college as for 
the entire University. These 
schools all agree that they owe an 
enormous debt to the unifying influ
ence on students of common life. Fra
ternities cannot take the place of 
dormitories, for at best they reach 
only a very small percentage of the 
total enrollment, and at many schools 
their influence is not all for good.
Especially at Carnegie do we need 
dormitories. The Tartan has often 
mentioned the need of a commons; 
but this is a small matter compared 
to the greater necessity for a living 
place for the students. As at Har
vard, the matter of commons could 
probably be attended to along with 
the solution of the dormitory prob
lem. Anyone who knows the condi
tions under which students have to 
live in Oakland can realize their need 
for something better. We know that 
measures must have been planned and 
discussed by the Administration; we 
do not wish to advise in anything 
which does not concern us; but we 
do feel that this is a most vital mat
ter for the future welfare of our In
stitution and its students. By a good 
deal of hard work and personal effort 
on the part of the faculty and the stu
dents, we gained an Athletic Field 
and Gymnasium. Can we not put 
forth the same efforts towards the so
lution of the much more vital issue 
which has now for so long confronted 
us?
THETA NU EPSILON.
At the annual Inter-Fraternity Con
ference held in New York towards the 
close of 1913, 33 mens general fra
ternities were represented. Among 
other important measures, the follow
ing significant resolution was 
adopted:
Resolved, That the Inter-Fraternity 
Conference expresses its disapproval 
of membership of fraternity members 
in Theta Nu Epsilon, and in all other 
secret Inter-Fraternity organizations, 
by whatsoever name they are known, 
and recommends that each fraternity 
herein represented enact legislation 
designed to prohibit its members join
ing such organizations.
This denunciation of Theta Nu Ep
silon, the so-called fraternity within 
Continued on Page 3
DIRECTORY
ATHLETTCS.
FootballF. C. McCaughey, Capt.
F. L. Rownd,
5141 Woodland Ave.
BaseballW. K. Hall, Capt.,
W. F. Routh, Mgr.
5437 Aylesboro St.
Basketball
W. T. Criswell, Capt.
W. F. Wright, Mgr.,
311 McKee Place.
TrackE. L. Clair, Capt.
Wm. Miller, Mgr.
Tennis
G. Douthett, Capt.
R. S. Wilson, Mgr.
Students Advertising Bureau
G. G. Kelcey, Mgr.
Room 1, Industries Bldg.,
9167-J Schenley.
SOCIETIES 
Musical Clubs
L. R. Madison, Pres.
N. A. Hollister, Mgr.
5137 Woodlawn Ave. 
SeannachieE. L. Clair, Pres 
Carnegie BandH. E. Gumbart, Mgr.,
310 Oakland Ave.
Mho ClubW. C. Sontum, Pres. 
Mechanical Club
J. B. Patterson, President. 
White Friars
J. A. Cameron, Pres.
G. W. Gilpin,
5557 Beeler St.
Tech Studio Club
H. B. Pearce, Pres.
T. D. C.
T. A. C.J. B. Hayes, Pres.
C. E. Society
Al. H. Woods, Pres.
Fulcrum Club
H. R. Auerswald, Pres. 
Crucible ClubW. J. Corbett, Pres.
CLUBS AND FRATERNITIES.
Sigma Tau5141 Woodlawn Ave.
Schenley 9167-J.
Sigma Rho3400 Iowa St.
Schenley 9022-J.
Beta Theta Epsilon
5437 Aylesboro Ave. 
Schenley 2508 
Xi Sigma Upsilon
311 McKee Place.
Schenley 9253.
Zeta Lambda Epsilon
237 N. Dithridge St.,
9053 Schenley.
Pi Chapter, Theta Xi
3890 Grant Blvd.
Schenley, 9143.
Woodlawn Club
5137 Woodlawn Ave.
Schenley 9020.
Alumni Assn of Applied Science 
and Design
W. H. Rieger, Sec. & Treas., 
Room' 204 Applied Industries Bldg. 
Carnegie Institute of Technology. 
Student Senates
DesignA. H. Neal, Pres.
IndustriesThomas Fish, Pres. 
Athletic Board of Control
J. J. Doherty, Pres.
A. D. Beeken, Jr., Secy.
C. I. T. Orchestra
G. C. Smith, Pres.
H. E. Gumbart, Mgr.,
310 Oakland Ave.

---------------------------------------------------

aria
SEAL HUNTING.
(Continued from last weeks issue.)
By John S. Taylor.
Stores are being rushed aboard in 
large quantities consisting mostly of 
barrels of flour, pork, beef, oatmeal, 
tea, coffee, and ship biscuit for the 
crew who by the way take along in 
their chests delicacies provided by 
a fond mother or wife, and no mem
ber of the crew would set sail with
out a good cake reposing in the till 
of his chest. While, for the officers 
and engineers, fresh beef, mutton and 
canned goods are provided in liberal 
amounts. Thus a ships company of 
180 healthy fellows may be expected 
to consume some provisions for maybe 
a period of 2 months. Aha! there goes 
the Bosuns (Boatswains) whistle. 
Crew is being piped preparatory to 
coaling. So with provisions, ship 
stores, i. e., sails, cordage, tar, spare 
spars, etc., and coal, the old ship will 
lay low in water, and give good steer
age way.
The dimensions of our ship, Van
guard, which is of the steam whaler 
class, are: length, 200 feet; beam, 35 
feet; depth, 15 feet; engines are triple 
expansion, built by Richardson in 
1880, at Newcastle-on-Tyne, Scotch 
boilers, speed 13 knots, square rigged 
with mizzen main, and foremast. The 
Terra Nova, which conveyed the 
Scott South Polar Expedition, is a 
prototype, being chartered in New
foundland for that purpose, later re
turned and now lies at anchor in St. 
Johns harbor waiting for the annual 
hunt.
Let us rub shoulders with that hunt
er leaning against the Capstan puff
ing away at a short clay pipe, ruddy 
faced, grizzled moustache, blue-eyed, 
notice the scar across his forehead 
caused by coming in contact with a 
jagged rock when his schooner was 
wrecked in a furious North Easter 
and he alone was dashed bleeding and 
exhausted on the rocks in sight of 
home. Although 60 years old, alert
ness is still characteristic of the man 
who for 30 years, winter and summer, 
has followed the sea. His head is en
cased in a wool- lined leather cap, com
fortably designed and known as an 
Elsinore. Coat and trousers of 
moleskin, flannel undergarments, a 
belt with sheath and knife is buckled 
around the waist. Reaching above the 
knee, a pair of leather-soled seal skin 
moccasins completes his costume and 
with gaff in hand and rope over shoul
der, this man can perform wonders 
when game is to be had.
The Sealing Industry is a very old 
enterprise successfully carried on in 
Newfoundland since 1819, the first ship 
being 100 tons and named the Four 
Brothers. Other nationalities built 
ships and tried the game many years 
ago, and after two seasons sold their 
equipment. The undertaking is haz
ardous and remarkable in that com
paratively f|ew accidents occur con
sidering the following dangers are 
always present. (1) Men are miles
from the ship. (2) Falling in open 
lakes of water or stepping in blow 
holes lightly covered with snow. (3) 
Blizzards. (4) Frost-bite, snow blind
ness. (5) Being bitten by a savage 
Hood (male seal). There is only one in
stance of this latter accident on record 
and that it where a man attacked an 
old Hood on a small pan of ice, 
slipped and fell. The old Hood caught 
him and bit his leg off at the knee, and 
with difficulty the poor fellow was res
cued. However, the saddest calamity of 
recent years is known as the Green
land disaster, so-called from a ship 
of that name, whereby twenty-eight 
men were caught in a blizzard which 
raged for 30 hours with the tempera
ture at ten degrees below zero. They 
were picked up three days later, by 
men of other ships who had joined in 
the search for them. A school boy 
chum of mine, who had joined the 
hunt for pleasure, and alas! found a 
pitiless death, was one of the victims.
To be continued.
(All rights reserved.)
Editorial
Continued from Page 2 
fraternities was unanimous by the 
delegates from the 33 national fra
ternities, and we are glad to note their 
action. T. N. E. was banished from 
Columbia a year ago by the Student 
Board, and a resolution was carried 
without dissent that all fraternities 
be asked to forbid their members join
ing T. N. E. thereafter. Inasmuch 
as the same society has penetrated 
into our student body at Carnegie, we 
would suggest that the fraternities 
here investigate whether or not the 
existence of this society is detrimental 
to their interests, and to the welfare 
of the student body; and if they find 
that it is, it might be well to take 
some such action as have the national 
fraternities.
ALUMNI SMOKER.
On Friday evening the Tech Clans,
08, 09, 10, 11, 12 and 13, Day and 
Night Grads, assembled in the club 
room of the School of Applied Science 
for a good old fashioned smoker. Fac
ulty and Senior classes had been in
vited and many turned out to renew 
old acquaintances and make new ones.
Prof. Follows and Prof. Willett 
had some good stories which received 
much applause. The Glee and Man
dolin Club helped to make the even
ing enjoyable and the Club room re
sounded with familiar songs. Meldrid Thomson, 09, in charge of the 
smoker, produced two artists for the 
occasion, one an ebony hued piano 
player who knocked the spots off the 
keyboard and the other a young vocal 
prodigy who filled the air with mel
ody.
The smoker was a big success but 
many of the live wires in the Asso
ciation were conspicuous on account 
of their absence. The Association 
need personal workers to bring the 
disinterested members to social func
tions.
THE RAIL 
SPLITTER
who became President 
of the United States
{And who was born /05 years ago this day)
Is a good model for a man or store to have in mind.
He was a simple, plain man without pretence or ostentation 
who had the faculty, to an unsurpassed degree, of doing well the 
thing at hand.
A successively farm laborer, store clerk, boatman, surveyor, 
postmaster, soldier, orator, legislator and finally President of the 
United States his life is an uninterupted story of faithful public serviceHis reward was the highest gift in the power of his countrymen to 
bestow, and though his end was untimely, his attainments were such 
as to demonstrate to all that public work well done does not go un
rewarded.
This Store is a Public Servant
in its own important way, and its rewards have been just and com
mensurate with its efforts to render intelligent, first-class public service. 
Its future success and growth will be in the exact proportion to which 
it nearly approaches the public idea of what the modern store 
should be.
Most people are content to know that this store has the things 
they want when they come for them at prices which are fair and 
reasonable, but we do not hes tate to make this frank explanation, of 
the human motives which underlie our efforts, to college men who 
understand these things and who are disposed to look for motives 
in forming their opinions of men and institutions.
Joseph Home Co.
The Modern Store
PITTSBURGH
We recommend the merchants advertising in the Tartan as the best in town. They will give you the best prices and quality.

---------------------------------------------------

4iartatt
WE HAVE THE NEW ONES IN SHOES
STOEBENER
Man with the Shoes
6227 Penn Ave. East End. 6222 Frankstown Ave.
City Office East End Office
631 Penn Avenue S. Highland Ave. and Baum StreetOswald Werner & Sons Co.
Pittsburgh's Oldest and Largest Dyeing and Cleaning Works
New Private Branch Exchange, Call Hiland 1 138 
Main Office and Works: Cor. Bryant, St. Clair and Mellon Sts.
A NATIONAL INSTITUTIONBrowning, King & Co*
CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS AND HATS FOR MEN BOYS AND CHILDREN
439-441 WOOD STREET
HOTEL SCHENLEY
ROMAN H. HEYN, President THOMAS J. KARAS, Manager
HpHE place where all Entertainments, Banquets and 
Social Functions of the Carnegie Institute of Technology and its Fraternities are being given.
Try our 50c Luncheonthe finest obtainable in 
the City of Pittsburgh, served daily in our Rathskeller.
M. M. C. S. NEWS
THE JUNIOR PROM.
The Junior Prom of the Class of 
1915 is now a thing of the past. It 
was held in the M. M. C. S. gymnasium 
hall, and lunch room on last Friday 
evening, February 6th. It was one of 
the most brilliant affairs ever held in 
that building. The rooms were very 
tastefully decorated with greens, and 
penants, and several cosy corners 
were arranged about the rooms. As 
fas as possible the colors of the class 
and the school were carried out. This 
was especially noticeable in the table 
decorations, where a small basket con
tained yellow and white narcissus and 
on the handle were violets tied with 
lavender ribbon. The music was ex
cellent and the orchestra was gener
ous in giving encores.
The Junior Prom1 invited Miss Par
ry, honorary member of the class, Mrs. 
Vermorcken, Miss Holmes, and Miss 
Lyon as chaperones.
SENIOR HOUSEHOLD ECONO
MICS GIRLS ENTERTAINED.
Miss Lyon and Miss Hanna, of the 
Household Economics department of 
M. M. C. S., entertained the Seniors 
of that department at a delightful tea 
at McCreerys Wednesday afternoon 
at two-thirty.
On Friday morning, February 6th, 
Leonie Nevin Taylor, of the Senior 
Household Economics Class, died at 
her home from acute pneumonia. Miss 
Taylor had been ill less than a week 
and her sickness had been pronounced 
pneumonia on Wednesday. .
Miss Taylor attended Allegheny 
High School, and had entered the M. 
M. C. S. in September, 1911. She was 
survived by her mother, two sisters 
and two brothers. The funeral was 
held at her home, 3542 Massachusetts 
avenue, North Side, on Monday, Feb
ruary 9th.
INTERCOLLEGIATE NOTES.
The co-eds at Drake University pur
chased blankets for the football team 
from the proceeds derived from a 
candy sale.
A prominent senior at the Univer
sity of Chicago was recently thrown 
into a tank writh his clothes on be
cause he appeared on the campus 
without a mustache.
At Ohio State the professors will 
henceforth be addressed as Mister 
instead of Professor. The faculty 
seems to prefer this.
The maximum number of foreign 
students in the German universities is 
to be fixed by the government. There 
was a strike at the University of Halle 
this year because Russians were 
crowding Germans out of the medical 
school.
A NEW BULLETIN.
During the past week a bulletin was 
issued announcing The New Depart
ment of- Printing in the School of Ap
plied Industries. The make-up of the 
publication is a work of art in itself.
In addition to outlining the com
plete courses, viz: the Day Course ex
tending over a period of three years 
and the four years Night Course for 
apprentices and students without pre
vious experience and the short inten
sive courses, a special Night Course 
will be offered introductory to work 
in general.
Interviews for the special Night 
Courses was held on Thursday even
ing by Dean Connelly and Mr. Gage, 
the head of the new department and 
forty men were admitted. This num
ber exceeds expectations by far and 
includes only about one-half the num
ber of applicants.
This special course opening last 
Monday evening, begins with the as
sumption that the student has consid
erable knowledge of printing. Letter
ing and design will be taken up first 
of all, as appiled to the daily work of 
the printer. The theory of color, type 
and paper manufacture, electrotyping, 
stereotyping, zinc etching and half
tone, lithography, photogravure, cop
perplate, steel engraving, etc., will be 
covered by lectures and illustrations.
The equipment is now being in
stalled in Room 122 of the Applied In
dustries building. Up until the open
ing of the regular courses, next Fall, 
the lectures will be held in the Assem
bly Room.
MUSICAL CLUB ON A TRIP.
Last night the Club appeared before 
an audience of over 1200 people in the 
big auditorium of the High School at 
Erie, Pa. The concert was billed 
under the auspices of the Senior 
Class.
The men left Pittsburgh yesterday 
at 1:30 p, m. on the P. & L. E., arriv
ing in Erie at 5:30 p. m. They were 
received by the committee and were 
entertained at the homes of some of 
the members of the class.
The Club will give another concert 
at the High School in Warren, Pa., 
tonight, and it is expected that in that 
place too, the Club will have a recordbreaking crowd to entertain.
The management has secured the 
consent of the Faculty to conduct its 
own inspection trips while away and 
it is expected they will have gone 
through the General Electric Works 
and the Erie Iron Works during their 
brief stay in Erie. These plants are 
both very large, and going there will 
compensate for the time given on the 
trip. The Club will arrive in Pitts
burgh at 5:30 p. m.( tomorrow.
Princeton defeated Yales varsity 
eight at Lake Carnegie, Princeton, on 
Saturday, October 25, by a length of 
open water. A fall race between east
ern college crews is a brand new thing 
in the years athletics.
Dramatic School Opens
Continued from Page 1. 
stage, instead of being separated from 
the audience space, is reached by a 
flight of steps, occupying the full 
proscenium opening. A scene paint
ing gallery is located in another part 
of the building, with direct access to 
the stage. The whole of the stage 
floor is movable. The fire curtain 
will be of steel and all openings out of 
the stage are provided with steel fire 
doors, automatic in action. The or
gan has a full range, and the console, 
when the organ is not being used, can 
be set back of the movable wainscot.
Junior Prom Feb. 20.
ARE YOU INTERESTED?
In a clear enunciation and correct 
pronounciation of English? It is of 
paramount importance in every career 
and contributes to success.
Having had a large experience in 
teaching along this line, and with grat
ifying results, particularly among for
eign college men I confidently offer 
my services to any who may require 
such instruction.
SARA E. SIMPSON,
312 Biddle Ave., 
Wilkinsburg, Pa. 
Bell Tel. 726-L Wilkins.
BRACE BROS. 
LAUNDRY
BENTON AVENUE 
WILKINSBURG 
Bell Phone, Wilkins 23
ENTERPRISE PRESSING COMPANY 
Cleaners and Dyers
Perfect Work in Ladies, Childrens and 
Household Work.
Oriental Rugs and Draperies a Specialty 
203 Highland Bldg. Pittsburgh, Pa.
Phones: Office 449 Hiland Works: 4912 Hiland
R. E. JACQUES, Teacher
of Dancing and Deportment
COR. CRAIG AND FORBES STREETS 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Bell Phone 91 24-R Schenley 
Vice President of the International Association Masters of Dancing
The upper classmen all patronize us
Plebes, Come over and get acquainted 
Hair Cutting our specialty 25 Cents
Harry F. Van Ct*rens 
TECH BARBER SHOP
Craig and Forbes Street, Pittsburgh, Pa.
We recommend the merchants advertising in the Tartan as th e best in town. They will give you the best prices and quality.

---------------------------------------------------

SI)? (Tartan5
WHATS WHISKERSAND WHY.
Whiskerswe are told upon excel
lent authorityare the outgrowth of 
hair in more or less pronounced form 
on the faces of male humans, indis
criminate felines, discriminate rodents 
and the like. In those forms of life 
lower than mankind which affect the 
said attachment, they serve the useful 
purpose of antennae. In the most 
highly developed beast, the male hu
man, their value is less utilitarian. 
Such uses as may be described here
after are accidental and have no con
nection with the theory of evolution.
We have no authentic record of the 
first appearance of whiskers upon the 
face of man, but many modern the
orists, (victims of the accursed tonsorial artists), believe that whiskers 
followed the fall of Adam, being in
cluded in the curse upon mankind re
sulting from the eating of the forbid
den fruit. However, since the Patri
archs of old are invariably pictured as 
wearing long and flowing beards, we 
know that whiskers are not a mod
ern institution. We have no desire of 
entering upon a history of the ancient 
and honorable customs of cultivation 
or of extermination of hair upon the 
face, but having established the fact 
of the age of the said customs, would 
consider modern usages.
In passing we would merely refer 
to the two extreme cases of the Sem
itic races and of the American Indians. 
The former have for milleniums cultiviated whiskers as a sacred rite, 
while the red-skins, probably because 
of frequent travel through dense and 
thorny undergrowth in forests, have 
waged relentless war upon the hirsute 
adjunct, even to the extent of pluck
ing separate and individual transgres
sors by the roots.
Almost every adult male American, 
belonging to a more or less clean
shaven race, remembers the joy of 
the first contact of a razor with his 
downy face. For the sake of contrast, 
let him recall his latest session with 
the same implement. The sensations 
are difficult to compare. And yet this 
same individual, free and independent, 
is a slave to custom.
If a smooth-faced President occu
pies the Executive mansion, ninetynine one-hundredths of the subjects 
of his regime are smooth-shaven. If 
a bewhiskered idol holds the hearts 
of the people, whiskers of a like pat
tern become common. Thus are the 
older men swayed.
But, from time immemorial, the 
younger generation becomes per
suaded that it must establish its abil
ity to cultivate a manly adornment. 
In late years, it has become customary 
for this sporadic effort to turn toward 
mustaches. The reasons therefor are 
manifold, varying from the whim of 
a callow youth to the demands of a 
profession.
In the latter case, lawyers, medicos 
and their kind aim to draw custom 
by an appearance of age. This is eas
iest assumed by the growth of a mus
tache and the adoption of spectacles. 
Hence, follow many whiskers.
Aside from these cases and those 
of persons afflicted with deformities 
of the mouth which are best hidden 
by the growth of hair, Love is the 
great actuator. Whiskers resulting 
from an affliction of the heart have 
three stages of growth.
. The first is when the beautiful sweet
heart whispers in the ear of the infat
uated youth. Say, kid, wydoncher 
grow a mustache? Itd make ya look 
so distingway. The idea, thus ten
derly planted, germinates into a 
thought; the thought into a resolu
tion; the resolution into a deed, and 
then the process is entered upon its 
second stage.
For a week the two lovers are sepa
rated while the sprig of budding man
hood spends many hours stolen from 
sleep in front of the mirror with an 
array of bottles at his hand. Vase
line, hair-oil, cold cream and herpicide are well applied, while plasters 
of mustard and flaxseed exert their 
drawing powers through the night. 
And at the end of the week he sallies 
forth to greet his true-love and to hear 
her praises of his manly appearance. 
The praises she reserves until the mus
tache has been fully tested. If it 
tickles her nose, he looke like a real 
French count. If it causes her to 
sneeze, he has it all over Emperor 
William for looks. But if it merely 
scratches her cheek, it is condemned 
to the third and final stage, and his 
hopes are blasted forevermore.
And this third stage, that of being 
cast into oblivion, may result from 
other causes. Perhaps the maid shows 
perfidy and renounces his trusting 
heart. There is nought to do but 
shave off the guerdon of love and seek 
for another maiden who perchance 
has heard that a kiss without a mus
tache is like an egg without salt. But, 
if the mustache should survive the 
period of courtship and be carried in
to that of connubial bliss, its life is 
still endangered. There may come 
a time when the good wife tires of 
sharing her husbands breakfast or his 
evening appetizer. Then the edict 
goes forth condemning the offending 
adjunct. But, fatal be the ukase, its 
terms are politic, for the owner is 
convinced that he will appear hand
somer and younger if he will remove 
the hairs.
Thus the Prophet of ancient times 
is again proved wise in his saying, 
Vanities of vanities. All is vanity.
True ValuesB. & B.True Values
Expert Opinion.
Whats most liable to get broke 
about your automobile?
The owner, replied Mr. Chuggins.Washington Star.
The old system of using a heated 
iron and dirty cloth presses the grime 
and dirt into your garments. Our 
sanitary machine steams it all out, and 
removes permanently the dirt, per
spiration, odor and grime. See Shu
man, the Dry Cleaner, 3911 Forbes 
street.Adv.
for caps at lowest prices
For style, quality and durability you can depend on any cap 
purchased here.
We carry only reliable goods and the prices are the lowest quoted 
anywhere.Boggs ID Bahl, 
Pittsburgh, Penn'a.
FORBES QUALITY 8HOP
FORBES AND BOUQUET STREET
NEW LOT TECHPennants, Banners, Pillow Tops
LUNCIISODA.CANDY
BEN TSheJ UJeI
WILL BE HELD
FRIDAY NIGHT, FEBRUARY 20
-ATTHE RITTENHOUSE
Subscription Five Dollars Mtisic by Nirella
Carnegie Institute of
Technology: Pittsburgh
The Carnegie Institute of Technology consists of four separate 
schools, each with its own faculty, buildings and student body.
School of Applied Science. Offers courses in chemical, civil, 
commercial, electrical, mechanical, metallurgical, mining and 
sanitary engineering, leading to the degree of Bachelor of Science.
School of Applied Design. Offers courses in architecture,
decoration, illustration, painting and music, open to both men 
and women, leading to the degree of Bachelor of Arts.
Margaret Morrison Carnegie School. For women. Offers 
courses in household economies, secretarial work, costume 
economies, home arts and crafts and teachers courses, leading 
to the degree of Bachelor of Science.
School of Applied Industries. Offers industrial courses in 
machine construction, building construction, general equipment 
and installation. Short courses are offered in the various trades. 
Also a course for the training of industrial teachers, leading to 
the degree of Bachelor of Science in Vocational Education.
Night Courses. The four schools offer night courses in 
practically all of the above subjects to provide educational opQortunities for those who are at work during the day.
For Further Information Address 
Registrar, Carnegie Institute of Technology
We recommend the merchants advertising in the Tartan as th e best in town. They will give you the best prices and quality.

---------------------------------------------------

alye Jartatt
FOOTBALL MEN RECEIVE 
MEMENTOES.
Dr. Marks and Kelly Remembered.
In a quiet, informal manner, gold 
and silver footballs were presented to 
the members of the grid squad at a 
gathering in Coach Marks office on 
January 29. Those immediately con
cerned made up the greater part of the 
crowd that filled the two rooms, and 
only a few outside students were pres
ent.
Dr. Marks made the presentation 
of the gold insignia to the Varsity 
men. He reviewed the season, and 
the two previous years in which he had 
been interested enough in the team 
to volunteer his services as coach. He 
expressed a personal regret over the 
fact that his increasing practice as 
school physician will make it impos
sible for him to be connected with the 
team in any way. The doctor also en
dorsed the recent action of the Board 
of Control in the heartiest terms, say
ing candidly that he thought a change 
in the system of play would be of great 
benefit to the teams of the school. In 
speaking of the new coach, Dr. Marks 
plead with the boys to give the new 
leader, whoever he is to be, the same 
obedience and consideration that they 
have shown to him.
The speaker referred to many comic 
incidents of the season as he called 
each man forward and complimented 
him before giving the gold football. 
The following Varsity men received 
gold miniatures: Capt. Clair, Capt.-
elect McCaughey, Fulmer, Welch, 
Burke, Oakes, Fagan, Lauer, H. Hellstrom, Kesner, Kreider, Trautman, 
Balsinger, McDonald and Manager 
Haaren.
Trainer Fred Kelly, who will soon 
be leaving for the South to take care 
of Big League stars, made the pre
sentation of the silver insignia to the 
members of the second squad. Kelly 
used his Irish wit and Hiberian tongue 
to good effect, drawing a laugh at_ 
every sally. He pointed out the little 
men on the Varsity squad to shame 
the heavy-weights of the scrubs, but 
ended with a hope to every individual 
man that he would get a gold one 
next year. The men recognized by 
silver insignia were: Fletcher, Tyler,
Wilson, Kindi, Oefinger, A. Hellstrom, Boileau, Hartman, Kline, Price, 
Averbach, Lang, Thompson, West
wood, Sherwood, Parke, Mehrton, 
Merriman, Marks, Tucker and Wil
liams.
After the presentation of the insig
nia, Manager Frank Haaren gave a 
short address in which he said that the 
fellows interested in the team had 
wished Dr. Marks to have some tang
ible memento of the season and of 
their appreciation of his work, so had 
purchased a pipe for their coach. The 
pipe, a beautiful meerschaum, with 
the trimmings of a humidor of P. A. 
were received with great appreciation 
by the doctor. Turning to Trainer 
Kelly, Haaren made him the present
Junior Prom Feb. 20.
of a gold football, a fac-simile of those 
received by the letter men, stating 
that it also was a gift of the boys. Both 
men were much affected.
LECTURE ON SANITARY ENGI
NEERING TOPICS.
Professor Geo. C. Whipple, of Har
vard University, lectured on Wednes
day, January 28th, to the students of 
the Civil and Chemical Engineering 
departments on the subject of Sewage 
Disposal. Professor Whipple, who is 
a graduate of the Massachusetts insti
tute of Technology, class of 1889, and 
a member of the firm of Hazen & 
Whipple, one of the leading consult
ing engineering firms in New York 
City, has been lecturing on Sanitary 
Engineering topics before the stu
dents at the University of Illinois, 
Wisconsin, Chicago, Minnesota and 
Northwestern Michigan. As head of 
the Department of Sanitary Engineer
ing at Harvard and a member of the 
Board of Control of the joint HarvardM. I. T. School for Health Officers, 
which board includes members of the 
faculty of Harvard Graduate Engineer
ing and Medical Schools and of the 
Massachusetts Institute of Technol
ogy, Professor Whipple has been in
strumental in demonstrating not only 
the possibility but the desirability of 
the highly important alliance between 
Harvard and M. I. T., which has just 
been announced.
INTER-SCHOOL MEET.
On February 28 there will be an 
inter-school track meet to start the 
interest in the Spring season. The 
meet will be held in the afternoon and 
the events run off on the board track 
out-of-doors and on the gymnasium 
floor. All entries should be in the 
hands of Mr. McCulloch or Manager 
Miller before next Wednesday. The 
following events will be featured:
20-yard dash.
440-yard dash.
880-yard dash.
One-mile run.
Two-mile run.
High jump.
Broad jump.
Shot put.
Relay race.
Fuller details will appear in next 
weeks Tartan.
The university wireless station is 
now operated as an experiment sta
tion, with the right of carrying on 
commercial business, under a license 
secured from the United States gov
ernment.Michigan Daily.
Bereft.
Did you come back on an all-steel 
train?
When the waiters and porters fin
ished plucking me, I felt sure it was. 
Birmingham Age-Herald.
Three Chinamen are learning how 
to care for the forests of the republic 
at the New York State College of 
Forestry at Syracuse.
PENN STATE LANDS HARD.
Hands Out 50-23 Wallop.
In Saturday nights game Penn State 
ran away from the Carnegie team, 
giving them the worst beating of the 
season. The losers have three perfect
ly good alibis: (1) it was the third suc
cessive game with long jumps be
tween and also the end of exam1 week; 
(2) a strange floor, unusually large and 
dim; and (3) Capt. Criswell was again 
absent from the line-up, breaking up 
the team-play that had been perfected 
in the early season.
The players showed the strain under 
which they played and had less speed 
than heretofore. Levy and Henning 
both tried hard to fill the position be
longing to Criswell but the other con
ditions were unfavorable. Penn States 
fresh scrubs in the last few minutes 
also helped to boost the score.
The line-up:
Carnegie Tech23 Penn State50
......... Hay
Hines..........................G................ Savery
Substitutions: Henningfor Levy,
Gockley for Binder, Warrfor Hay,
Metzgar for Savery, Davidson for
Park, Wilson for Jester. Field Goals: 
Tumpane 2, Colvin 2, Levy, Binder 4, 
Park 4, Jester 2, Hay 4, Savery, Metzgar, Davidson, Wilson. Foul Goals: 
Binder 12 out of 15, Gockley 2 out of
3, Tumpane 1 out of 2, Colvin 12 out 
of 14. Referee: Taggart. Score of 
first half: 20-13, State.
SCRUBS BEAT FRANKLIN CLUB.
As a preliminary to the CarnegieMarietta game, the second team won 
from the Franklin Club of Washing
ton Park by the score of 20 to 18. Detwiler and Kreider starred for the 
scrubs, while Mates did good work 
for the visitors.
The line-up:
Carnegie Tech II20
Franklin Club18
Curtis............................F................... Mates
Detwiler.......................F................. Levine
Humphries.................C........ Reichbaum
Kreider........................G.................... Minn
Smith...........................G.......................Kline
Field Goals: Detwiler 4, Curtis,
Humphries, Kreider, Mates 3, Reich
baum' 2, Levine, Kline. Foul Goals: 
Detwiler 6 out of 6, Mates 4 out of 9. 
Referee: Mauthe. Timer: Kline. Score 
first half: 10-9, Carnegie.
Defined.
CounselNow, tell mlud and gen
tlemen of the jury what was the de
fendants condition when in your 
bar?
WitnessWell, sir, I should say 
fresh but servable.Punch.
Correct.
TeacherYes, children, an Indians 
wife is called a squaw. Now what are 
the little Indian babies called?
Bright PupilI know, Miss  
squawkers.Boston Transcript.
ANOKAJKitARROW
SCOLLAR
Cluett. Peabody & Co.. Inc. Makers
Sporting Goods, Cutlery, 
College Pennants, 
Banners and Pillow Tops.
MILL INTER (0.
4i4 Wood Street.
BELL PHONE 239 SCHENLEYWeher Express Sc Storage Co.
Moving, Packing and Storing of 
Furniture and Pianos. General Hauling
Baggage to and from Depot
4616-18-20 Henry St., Pittsburgh, Pa
FLOWERS LOR ALL OCCASIONS
Randolph ID Me Clements
FLORAL EXPERTS
5936 Penn Avenue Near Highland Ave.
| C. M. STAUFT 2
5 Stationery, News, Etc. 55
Gentlemans Watches ^
 and Repairing.
^ 3702 Forbes St. Pittsburgh, Pa. S'
Mellon National Bank
514 Smithfield Street
409 Fiith Avenue
Capital and Surplus $8,000,000
Handsome homes, congenial 
surroundings, healthful location and 
convenience to all places, all com
bined in
SCHENLEY FARMS
Liberty Cleaning and 
Pressing Co.
301 S. Craig St. Cor., of Winthrop St. 
Bell Phone Schenley 309
Goods called (or and delivered.
We recommend the merchants advertising in the Tartan as the best in town. They will give you the best prices and quality.

---------------------------------------------------

(Tartan7
A GYM TEAM.
The various candidates for the gym 
team have been practicing diligently 
for the last few Saturdays. Students 
who have done gymnasium work are 
requested to turn out strong as this 
promises to be an interesting squad. 
Under the direction of Mr. McCul
lough, snappj' work is being done, 
and a good showing is expected from 
the chosen members. The Industries 
school has thus far turned out the 
rgest number of candidates and has 
some good material to choose. The 
class meets Saturday mornings at 9:30 
and works until 12.
A SHAKESPEAREAN ARGU
MENT.
EXHIBITION OF PAINTINGS.
The Department of Fine Arts, Car
negie Institute is presenting a special 
exhibition of the work of Laura and 
Harold Knight. There are 140 pieces 
in the collection representing a var
iety of mediumspencil drawings, 
pastels, water colors and oil. The 
nine water colors in les Slyphides 
series, representing the Russian danc
ers, are keenly interesting. The Eng
lish domestic scenes, the pastorals, 
the coast pictures, and numerous oth
ers of the subjects are equally appeal
ing.
Mr. and Mrs. Knight are not only 
well-known in England, but many co
lonial galleries have examples of their 
work. The Canadian National Gal
lery of Art at Ottawa, purchased 
Laura Knights picture The Green 
Feather, which won an honorable 
mention here in 1912.
This exhibition will be open until 
February 28.
Lucky Ballast.
SheAnd theyve nicknamed that 
simpleton Louis the Fourteenth?  
HeYes; its this way: He gets
invited to lots of affairs where other
wise there would be but thirteen 
guests.Puck.
The University of Pennsylvania is 
to have a new chapel to cost half a 
million dollars, which will seat 1500 
people.
By superior team work and consist
ent running, the Yale cross-country 
team1 defeated Harvard last Saturday 
by the score of 25 to 23.
The Phillips Exeter Academy won 
its first football victory over Andover 
in eight years, recently, by the score 
of 59 to 0.
Four hundred students have regis
tered in the different branches of ath
letics at Harvard.
Florence Dunigan, a freshman at the 
University of Kansas, broke her leg 
recently when she jumped from a 
buggy after the horse started to run 
away.
An interesting article on Shakes
peares Final Philosophy, or The 
Ethics of a Man of the World, ap
pears in the winter number of Poet 
Lore, written by Dr. Walter Libby, 
head of The Teachers Course School 
of Applied Industries. Dr. Libby has 
been a careful student of Shakespeare 
and his deductions are a result of 
many years thought on the matter.
The article was prompted by a criti
cism written some years ago in The 
Contemporary Review, by Mr. J. 
Churton Collins and by a book 
Shakespeare as a Dramatic Thinker, 
by Professor R. G. Moulton. The 
Tempest is used as the basis for the 
argument.
THE ALVIN.
The Welsh play, Change, which 
comes to the Alvin Theater next week, 
is by Mr. J. O. Francis, a Welsh play
wright, and the characters are por
trayed by actors, all of whom were 
born in Wales.
The story of the play deals with a 
family raised by their parents accord
ing to the most rigid Calvinism. One 
of the fine moments in the play is at 
the beginning of the second act, when 
the boy, who has been studying for 
the ministry and is the pride and hope 
of his humble parents, has returned to 
take his piacc in a home threatened 
with disruption. The boy has tried 
faithfully to become a minister, but 
he has read much and higher criticism 
has got him. In the play he has no 
prepared entrance. He sits at table 
reading as the curtain rises and for 
some moments takes no part in the 
discussion between his two brothers 
as to the family attitude toward so
cialism and religion. When he is 
dragged into it, however, his first 
spoken words stamp his character and 
the truth of the struggle he has made 
on the minds of all who hear him. The 
scene that follows is simple, well writ
ten and impressive.
Junior Prom Feb. 20.
DUQUESNE.
Edmund Breese in The Lion and the 
Mouse.
For the final week of Edmund 
Breeses starring engagement with the 
Harry Davis Players at the Duquesne, 
under special arrangement with Webra 
and Leuscher, this foremost American 
actor will appear in his celebrated 
role of John Burkett (Ready Money) 
Ryder in a brilliant presentation of 
Charles Kleins stirring drama of 
present day conditions in this coun
try.
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON
PENN AND FRANKSTOWN AVENUE, EAST END.
We are now REBUILDING and when completed we 
will have one of the most complete and modern exclusive 
SHOE STORES in Greater Pittsburgh.
Oar business continued while rebuilding, NEW FALL 
BOOTS are arriving daily.
WE'VE FITTED FEET OVER FORTY YEARS. 
THE UNDERWOOD TYPEWRITER
IN
Has No Rivals SPEED AND ACCURACY
IT HOLDS ALL WORLDS RECORDS 
IN OPEN COMPETITION
THE MACHINE YOU WILL EVENTUALLY BUY
UNDERWOOD TYPEWRITER COMPANY, INCORPORATED 
Underwood Building, New York
Branches in all Principal Cities
MARIETTA DEFEATED IN 
EXTRA PERIOD.
Varsity Puts Up a Good Fight and 
Wins, 2726.
Playing three basketball games in as 
many successive nights last week, the 
Varsity managed to pull one out of the 
fire. In the first, played against Mari
etta on the home floor on Thursday 
night, February 5, the Tartan five won 
out on superior foul shooting in the 
second extra period. At the end of 
the second half, the score was tied at 
26 points, and Referee Mauthe called 
an extra period of five minutes. Both 
teams played hard, but nervousness 
kept either side from scoring. An
other extra period was ordered and 
Colvin scored on a foul. Marietta could 
not find the basket and the game end
ed, 27 to 26.
Carnegie showed that the absence 
of Capt. Criswell was a heavy handi
cap, but managed to do some speedy 
work.
The score:
Carnegie Tech27 Marietta26
Henning..................F.................. D. Parr
Tumpane.................F.................... Sutton
Colvin.......................C..............Humphrey
Hines.......................G...................... Miller
Douthett.................G.................. Hinman
Substitutions: Levy for Henning, R. 
Parr for Miller. Field Goals: Tumpane 
4, Colvin, Hines, Douthett, Hinman 3, 
Humphrey 2, Sutton 2, D. Parr. Foul 
Goals: Colvin 13 out of 25, Tumpane 
missed 1, Sutton 10 out of 24, D. Parr 
missed 2. Referee: Mauthe. Score of 
first half: Marietta 17, Carnegie 13.
STUDENTS
Try one of our SPECIAL Tailor 
made suits at $18.00. Young Mens 
New Style for Spring.
Quite Classy You, will feel Sassy 
in our Made to Measure Suits. 
From
C. A. HEIMERT 
Mens Outfitter
3614 Foibes Ave. Iroquois Block, Oakland 
Established in Pittsburgh in 1882
Present this AD and we will allow 
you one dollar on your Spring Tailor made Suit.
Coach James Rice of Columbia says 
that in point of farm and efficiency 
and of speed in proportion to available 
power the feminine oarsmen of the 
Wellesley College crews cannot be 
equaled by those of any mens college.
We recommend the merchants advertising in the Tartan as the best in town. They will give you
Charlese E. Courtney, coach of the 
Cornell crews, celebrated his 64th 
birthday recently.
With its delightful love romance 
and its battle of wits, The Lion and 
the Mouse is by all odds the most en
tertaining and gripping drama of its 
kind yet produced.
The Oakland 
Savings & Trust Co.
The Oakland Bank
VANADIUM BUILDING
Capital $200,000.00
Surplus $200,000.00
Deposits over $1,700,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
The Hotel Schenley Barber Shop
solicits your pationage. Our service is 
second to none at the regular prices
M. J. Chemoif, Proprietor.
The Genuine Step of
Tango, One Step, Maxixe 
and Hesitations 
McDOUGALL DANCING ACADEMIES
4616 Forbes St., and Shady and Penn Aves. 
SPECIAL TANGO CLASS MONDAY EVENINGS
THE D. L.AULDCO.
MANUFACTURING JEWELERS 
AND STATIONERS 
Columbus, Boston, Philadelphia, Chicago, Pittsburgh 
FRATERNITY BADGES, CLASS PINS AND RINGS 
ENGRAVED INVITATIONS 
DANCE PROGRAMS
REGINALD TUT HILL
Representative for Penna. Bell, Hiland I I2I-R
P. O. Box 984 PITTSBURGH. PA.
the best prices and quality.

---------------------------------------------------

8
ORSSRBBPM
ANY WINTER SUIT$19.
in our varied Stock--Suits formerly $45, ^ ^ O
$40, $35, $30, $28, $25-may now be ^ ^
purchased for
Such a proposition is worthy of your early attention
OVERCOAT OR ULSTER?
ULSTERS AND tf OA AA
OVERCOATS_________-JLU.UU
They were $35, $30, $28 & $25
ULSTERS AND
OVERCOATS____
They were $50, $45, and $40S 30.00
'bennmeetIns I (,. R INI ft ((I WJJynIy
BEST. ---------- FIFTH
JUNIOR PROM PROGRAMMES
The advance order of dances for 
the Junior Prom will be issued on 
Monday, February 16. Be sure to 
start immediately to get the best 
card filled.
CLASSIFIED LIST OF TARTAN ADVERTISERS
We have classified our advertisers so that our readers may use the list 
for reference before making purchases. The grouping furnishes an excellent 
variety of merchants for any article which a student, alumnus'or faculty 
member would be likely to buy, and there is no valid reason of which we are 
aware that would justify anyone interested in the welfare of The Tartan in 
making purchases from any but merchants who so kindly make such a publi
cation possible. Be sure, also, to give one of the purchase stubs, which you 
will find enclosed in your Tartan every other week, to the clerk from whom 
you make the purchase. The stubs, we have found, make pleased advertisers 
and help to get new ones. May we depend upon YOU to take this as a re
sponsibility to your Institution and to The Tartan.
The student body of Elon College 
has unanimously adopted the plan of 
a student senate to have exclusive 
control of all cases of cheating on ex
amination and to act as a sort of grand 
jury in other cases of student delin
quencies. The senior class will be 
the senate.
The student council of Michigan 
University, the board in control of 
student publications and the cosmo
politan club, including faculty mem
bers, and Ann Arbor citizens, gave a 
large majority of affirmative votes in 
the canvass conducted by the Michi
gan Daily. Other campus organiza
tions will vote on the question this 
week.
The Metropolitan Museum of Art of 
New York has accepted a $15,000,000 
collection of paintings, bequeathed by 
Benjamin Altman.
The University of Colorado is en
larging its station from one-half to 
five k.w. and will procure a govern
ment license.
A story, whose point seems familiar, 
is that of the politician who violently 
accused the editor of printing lies 
about him. The editor replied coolly, 
You have no cause for complaint. 
What would you do if we told the truth 
about you?
Harvard men are protesting because 
Christmas vacation begins Tuesday 
and ends Saturday, cutting off both 
week ends.
A monocle is a pane of glass worn 
in one eye in order that its wearer 
may not see at one time any more 
than he is able to understand.Punch.
University of Pennsylvania is to 
have a new chapel to cost at least half 
a million dollars. It is to be 180 feet 
long and 66 feet wide, and is to have a 
seating capacity of 1500.
I swallowed a nickel yesterday. Do 
you see any change in me?
The trustees and executive commit
tee of the National Educational Asso
ciation have selected St. Paul for the 
midsummer convention and expect an 
attendance of eighteen thousand.
Ohio University is to install a one 
k.w. wireless station and add a course 
in wireless telegraphy.
Candidates for the Missouri base
ball team are out for track. Coach 
O. F. Field has issued a call to all 
candidates to report for track. They 
will be given special training in 
sprints to develop speed in baserunning.
Ball and Party Accommodations
Hotel Schenley, Oakland.
The Rittenhouse, Highland Ave.,
E. E.
Banks
The Mellon National Bank, Smithfield and Fifth.
The Oakland Savings & Trust Co., 
Vanadium Bldg., Oakland.
Banquets and Dining Services 
Rittenhouse, Highland Ave., E. E. 
Schenley Hotel, Oakland.
Barbers
The Schenley Hotel Barber Shop. 
The Tech Barber Shop, Craig, and 
Forbes Sts.
Cleaning and Pressing (Delivery 
Service)
Enterprise Pressing Co., Highland 
Bldg., E. E. Phone 449 Hiland. 
Liberty Cleaning and Pressing Co., 
Craig, near Forbes St. Tel. 
Schenley 309.
Oswald Werner and Sons, Bryant 
and St. Clair Sts., E. E. Tel., Hi
land 1138.
J. E. T. Shuman, Forbes, near Boquet St., Oakland. Tel./ Schen
ley 874.
Clothing
Boggs & Buhl, Federal St., N. S. 
Browning, King Co., 441 Wood St 
Joseph Horne Co., Penn Ave. 
McCreery Co., Sixth and Wood Sts 
Strassburger & Joseph, Federal St 
near Ohio, N. S.
Confectioners
Forbes Quality Shop, Forbes anG 
Boquet Sts., Oakland.
McDonalds, 208 Sixth St.
Reymers, Fifth Ave., downtown, 
Penn Ave., E. E.
The Rittenhouse. Highland Ave., 
E. E.
C. M. Stauft, Forbes and Atwood 
Sts., Oakland.
Dancing Academies
Jacques, Craig and Forbes.
Department Stores
Boggs & Buhl, Federal St., N. S. 
Jos. Horne Co., Penn Ave. 
McCreery Co., Sixth and Wood.
Draughtsmans and Artists Supplies ' 
Geo. L. Kopp, Smithfield and Sev
enth, upstairs one flight.
Kurtz, Langbein & Schwartz, oppo
site McCreerys.
Late to bed and early to rise makes 
dark circles under the eyes.
Dont study overtime watching the 
clock.
Things move along so rapidly nowa
days that the man who says It cant
They will give
Florists
Randolph & McClements, Penn, 
near Highland, E. E. Tel., Hi
land 25.
Furniture
Boggs & Buhl, Federal St., N. S. 
Joseph Horne Co., Penn Ave.
J. G. Marshall, 959 Liberty. 
McCreery & Co., Sixth and Wood 
Sts.
H aberdashery
Aufhammer & Evans, 6100 Penn 
Ave.
J. G. Bennett lvrf Wood and Fifth. 
Boggs & Buhl, Federal St., N. S. 
Browning, King & Co., 441 Wood 
St.
Cluett, - Peabody Cos, shirts and 
colics.
Heimerts, Oakland.
Joseph Horne Co., Penn Ave. 
McCreery Co., Wood and Sixth Sts. 
Strassburger & Joseph, Federal St., 
N. S.
Hardware
Hukill-Hunter Co., 414 Wood St.
Laundries (Delivery Service)
Brace Bros., Wilkinsburg. Tel.
Moving Picture Theatres
The Cameraphone, Penn Ave., E. E.
Real Estate
The Schenley Farms Co., Farmers 
Bank Bldg.
Shoes
Boggs & Buhl, Federal St., N. S. 
Joseph Horne Co., Penn Ave.
P. Ludebuehl & Son, Penn and 
Frankstown Aves., E. E.
Geo. H. Stoebener & Son, Penn and 
Frankstown Aves., E. E,
Sporting Goods
Hukill-Hunter & Co., 414 Wood St.
See Mr. Lockhart.
A. G. Spalding & Bros., Wood and 
Sixth Sts.
Tobacconists
Schenley Hotel.
C. M. Stauft, Forbes and Atwood 
Sts., Oakland.
Transfer and Storage
Webber Express and Storage Co., 
4616-20 Henry St. Tel., Schen
ley 239.
Typewriters
The Underwood Typewriter Co., 
Liberty Ave.
be done is interrupted by somebody 
doing it.U- >
Princeton University will have a uni
versity press for the publication of all 
books deemed worthy to bear the Uni
versitys stamp. Columbia, Yale and 
Harvard already have such presses.
We recommend the merchants advertising in the Tartan as the best in town.you the best prices and quality.
INCIDENTALS.
