? ??PC
VOLVtt^ iIBE'TALE.OVkUfl
Wednesday, March 8
]L-W.-BOYEK.->/C.-ft5.- qTiH411[ ir\iGnr'jct\ooL'QT'(\yyutd'Dtsm c

---------------------------------------------------

2THE TARTAN
AUFHAMMER & EVANS
Hats Caps Furnishings
Boys: Youll do well to come in and look * 
4- at our Suits, Overcoats or Furnishings when 4* 
a in need. Well give you a square deal. 4*
Tenn and Highland 4*V Baum and Beatty* PENN AND COLLINS EAST END $
I KURTZ, LANQBEIN & SWARTZ jj
I* *8* i
* Chocolate Croquets *
.g, Cream Candy Dipped in Nutted Chocolate
4* Regular Price 40 Cents 4*
Saturday, March 11th, Special 29c a Pound ||i
at agi
HALLERS, 3618 Forbes Avenue. j*
Are now in their new building, 535 Wood S treet 
Stationery, Engraving, Artists Materials 
DrauShtmrni and Engineers Supplies
Guns, Cutlery, Athletic Goods, Canoes, Fish- 4*33c *2"0"u. Snow
that we print more hooks than any firm
in the East End ?....................................................
j*I OAKILND BU
that our Programs, Topic Cards and Leaf
lets elicit the admiration of lovers of Fine
Printing?........................................................................
TEI OAOIBND TRM?D|LH
that we are prompt, and that an order 
for a dollar receives as much care and at
tention as o'ne for a hundred dollars? . 
If you are fastidious, if you require 
prompt and efficient service, come to .
SCPF ax. WVW.CPFK,
6117*6119 Kirkwood Street 
?PC BC oC ?ysP:Yul Mgr., Tartan, is 
our representative at Tech.
Bell Phones86 and 9216 Hiland
4* ing Tackle, a Complete Line of Dog Supplies
W. S. BROWN, 523 Wood St., PITTSBURGH
Most nice affairs whether 
it be a Ball or Dinner are 
held at The Rittenhouse, 
where every appointment 
is perfect,
O%0S:O%OS^SO\OSO\O\O%OXO%O%O\O%O%O\O\
I OAKLAND BUTTER MARKET ?% Dealers in &* BUTTER, EGGS. POULTRY, CHEESE, TEA. COFFEE <AND CANNED GOODS <
/ 3714 FORBES STREET >5 Bell Phone Schenley 
4* Look stylish and fit perfectly. That is the reason you al- 4*
4* ways find the clothes we tailor on the smart dressed young 4*
f* men in town. *
* Special this WeekSuits $20.00 and $25.00. f
Subscriptions to the Tartan for the balance of 
the School Year may be obtained from the Man4. ager or Assistants at the rate of 50c,
* V, See the Tartan Manager for student rates on 4*J the following scientific papers; ^
The Electric Railway Journal *
4* The Electrical World/ A4. The Engineering Record 3? *
P'3 BLOCK>
Where all th men go

---------------------------------------------------

BOARD OF CONTROL
BOARD OF CONTROL MEETS.
The Board of Control met on Wednesday evening, 
March 1, in the Science building. Plans for several 
events of the near future were discussed, but the 
only definite action taken was to adopt a system of 
management of the athletic interests of the School. 
This system, drawn up by the Board in collaboration 
with Dr. Savage, provides for a line of action, by 
which the assistant managers, instead of being only 
errand boys for the Varsity managers, will receive 
practical experience in the managerial art. 
They are given definite duties, and, while sub
ject to the manager, will have interests entirely their 
own.
The article adopted, entitled, Instructions to Man
agers and Assistant Managers of the Athletic Asso
ciation, contains the following points of interest:
There shall be one manager for each sport, pref
erably from the Senior Class, one assistant man
ager, preferably from the Junior Class, and three 
second-assistant managers, one from each school. 
The first-assistant manager shall prepare all sched
ules for the inter-school contests. The second-as
sistant managers shall prepare all schedules for the 
inter-class contests, or inter-group contests, within 
their schools. Such schedules shall be subject to 
the approval of the gymnasium director.
Each manager, when elected, must at once famil
iarize himself with the constitution and by-laws of 
the Athletic Association, the eligibility code, the re
quirements of the Department of Student Health, 
and the powers, duties and limitations of his office 
as laid down by the regulations, as well as indicated 
in these instructions.
He shall conduct all correspondence relative to 
the affairs of his team, and shall keep copies of all 
such correspondence on file in the office of the Sec
retary of the Association. Before entering into ne
gotiations with any college, he shall read all previous 
correspondence with that college.
He shall arrange a schedule of games for his 
team, submit them for approval to the Executive 
Committee and to the Superintendent of Athletics, 
together with an estimate of the entire expense in
volved to carry on the season.
He must prepare all contracts for games and se
lect all officials. He must see that all his men com(Tile (Tnrinn
VOL. V PITTSBURGH, PA., WEDNESDAY, MARCH 8, 1911 No. 22
DO WHAT? 
WHEN ?
HOW MUCH ?
Subscribe to the Tartan.
Now.
Fifty Cents. Feb. 15thJune 7th.

---------------------------------------------------

4THE TARTAN
ply with the requirements of the Department of Stu
dent Health and are in good standing in the Schools 
according to the eligibility code.
He must make a monthly report to the Treasurer 
of his incidental expenses, and receive a check for 
the same. At the end of the season he must turn 
in any balance and make a final complete report of 
his seasons work.
The manager shall count and check up all tickets 
at the games, whether played at home or away, and 
within twenty-four hours after reaching home, he 
shall make a full and complete report of the game, 
answering all questions upon a managers report 
slip provided by the Association.
This system gives the new managers all the bene
fits of the experience gained by preceding managers 
by a system of field correspondence and reports. 
The reports cover all such incidents as hotel accom
modations, effect of journey, reception and treatment 
by entertaining team, and relations with the man
agement. With this and the system of training for 
che assistant managers, Tech should have a compeent managerial staff provided for the future.
THISTLE GRINDS NEEDED.
Time Is Getting Short.
Unless you want to place the Thistle Board in a 
position very similar to that the 61st Congress so 
recently found itself in, you will turn in any grinds 
or other material that you may happen to have 
at once. The Beard reports that it is very short of 
grinds, and that unless more are turned in at once 
this years book will not have nearly so many nor 
so good grinds as the previous issues have had. We 
know that there are many fellows who have and can 
get some very good material, but who have refused 
to make the effort heretofore. It is now up to them 
to make the grind department of the Thistle for 1911 
a success, and we expect to see them do it. A sheet 
metal box has been placed in the knver corrider to 
receive any Thistle material and any such dropped 
in the box will reach the proper hands.
COLLEGES REPRESENTED IN CONGRESS.
Michigan has twenty-seven former students in 
Congress, Harvard has sixteen alumni, and Yale and 
the University of Virginia have fifteen each. Ten 
members of the alumni of the University of Iowa are 
in Congress; the University of Wisconsin and Cum
berland University have nine each; Georgetown, 
eight; Columbia and the University of Georgia, seven 
each; Washington and Lee, six; University of Penn
sylvania, Vanderbilt, University of Missouri, and 
Cincinnati Law School, five each; Princeton, Am
herst, Trinity, University of South Carolina, Dart
mouth, University of the South, University of Ar
kansas, Tulane, Bowdoin, Albany Law School, and 
the University of Texas, four each.
SCHOOL OF APPLIED DESIGN
The Pris Prize of the Society of Beaux Arts Arch
itects, which this year is the gift of Mr William A.
Reed of New York, will consist of two preliminary 
and one final competition as heretofore.
The first preliminary competition will consist of a 
twelve hour esquisse-esquisse held en loge, Satur
day, March 25th.
All citizens of the United States who are under 
twenty-seven years of age are eligible for the prize, 
which entitles the winner to free entrance into the 
first class of the Ecole des Beaux Arts in Paris, and 
a scholarship of $1,000 per year for two years and a 
half, spent abroad in study and travel.
Mr. Wm. King, Jr., of this school won second prize 
in the competition of last year and it is sincerely 
hoped that we will be represented in the first place 
this year.
This school shared honors for first place with the 
University of Pennsylvania at the last judgment of 
the Society of Beaux Arts Architects, New York. 
Twenty-six awards of unusual merit were submitted 
by students.
The students winning first medals were W. F. 
Burkhart, Jr., and T. J. Raguere. Mr. D. M. Allison 
also won a second medal. Mentions were given to 
Messrs W. Gehron, A. H. Gilkinson, C. D. Hasness,
E. J. Hatcher, P. R. Hay, P. Mewhinney and P. H. 
Sterling, all of whom were  in the Class A Plan 
competition. The subject of the Problem was A 
Reception Room of the President.
It was the opinion of the jury that the exhibition of 
the sets of designs submitted in this competition 
compared most favorably with the first class at the 
Ecole des Beaux Arts in Paris. Never before has the 
work of the students been so satisfactory.
Mentions were awarded to the following students 
for Equisses-Equisses: Class A Equisse-Equisse A 
Bridge, Brandon Smith, E. F. Boyer, E. F. Griffith, 
mentions. Class B Equisse-Equisse, A Cemetery, . 
J. B. Hays, 1st mention and M. Jones, mention.
Messrs C. M. Hoffman, F. X. Keally, L. A. Withers, 
R. Hodgson, C. E. Moss, and Misses Uhrbon, M. E. 
Williams and Sue Watson were awarded mentions 
for the Class A. & B. Archaeology. Projet An 
Open Timber Ceiling,, and Miss M. C. Farren receiv
ing a medal.
Messrs W. H. King, Jr., and W. H. Crosby received 
medals for measured drawings.
To celebrate their success at this judgment the 
faculty and students held a smoker at the Univer
sity Club Monday, Feb. 27th.
Students in Class B Order and Plan took the pre
liminary sketch for the nest projets. The subject 
of the Order Equisse was A Peristyle with Porch 
and Porticos while that of the Plan Pro jet was A 
Town Hall.
The Class A Equisse-Equisse was rendered the 
same day. The subject of it being A Proscenium 
of a Theatre.
On Wednesday afternoon Mr. Ferrand will deliver 
a series of illustrated lectures on architectural com
position. These lectures promise to be very valuable 
to students and should be attended by all.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANa
MR. HORNBOSTELS RECEPTION AT 
MEMORIAL HALL
On Tuesday afternoon of last week, in the Memor
ial Hall Dean Henry Hornbostel of the School of Ap
plied Design gave a reception to the faculty of the 
Carnegie Technical Schools and University of Pittsburh. The reception was held in the dance hall of 
the building.
The program was of a very pleasant and amusing 
character. The pleasant feature being the reading 
of a number of beautiful pieces of music by a leading 
orchestra in the city and the tea served in an ad
joining room. The amusing feature and incidentally 
the greatest hit of the afternoon was the giving of a 
Punch and Judy show by the students of the Applied 
Design. The Punch and Judy box was situated on 
the stage in the ball room and unlike the proverbial 
Punch and Judy box was about four times as large 
so as to accommodate the several Punches and Jud
ies that figured in the show.
The characters in the show represented the lead
ing exponents of the higher education inthe schools, 
Hughey the Applied Design school janitor, Snyder, 
the head janitor and incidentally the faculty and the 
officers of the administration.
The characters were as follows: Director Hamerschlag, Dean Hornbostel; Acting Dean McGoodwin, 
Associate Prof. Ferand; Prof. Hewlift, Mr. A. Zeller; 
Associate Prof. Sparks, Asst Prof. Bergey, Asst 
Prof. Schapper, Mr. L. B. Lee, Mr. Weidlein, Mr. 
Snyder and Prof. Hughey. It was hard to determine 
who was the real Punch and the real Judy but odds 
appeared to be in favor of Dean Hornbostel as Punch 
and the Director as Judy, the rest being associate 
and assistant Punches and Judies.
Although the time given to preparation for the 
show precluded a rehearsal, it went through admirguiably with very little hitch and succeeded in dis
turbing the visible faculties of the faculties present 
during its short duration of about 20 minutes.
The part of Mr. Hornbostel was very well taken, 
the resemblance being such that when the real Mr. 
Hornbostel in the audience saw his counterpart ke 
rubbed his eyes and there and then vowed to swear 
off.
A part of the attire of the bogus Mr. Hornbostel 
was the proverbial black hat, bow necktie, and an 
extra size Bill Taft cigar. As there appeared to be 
more than sufficient space in the Punch and Judy 
box, for the actors it was naturally concluded by the 
audience that the extra space had been provided for 
the cigar because it was truly of mammoth propor
tions. When Mr. Hornbostels counterpart accident
ally dropped it on the floor to its detriment and that 
of the floor, he pulled out or rather he unslung anoth
er which he had hanging on his back like a rifle.
The appearance of the bogus Mr. Sparks was greeted 
with applause as he looked so like the real thing as 
also did Mr. Ferrand and the rest of Punch and Judys 
associates and assistants. It was a treat to see Mr. 
Zeller bob up from the lower regions like a Jack-inthe-box. It looked as if he had been sitting on a 
steel compressed spring and it had been let go or he 
had been the recipient of a good hard kick; one of 
them kicks which are preceded by a ten yard run.
The show was of two acts. In the first act the 
scene was laid in the Applied Design drawing room.
A number of students are raising all kinds of---------
anarchy.
[Enter Snyder (or rather bob up Snyder) saying] 
Cut the rough house fellows this isnt an election 
night. (Fellows) Back up, back up, Snyder, the 
tank for yours.
(Snyder) All right, Ill make a report of this. 
(calls Weidlein.)
(Snyder) Say, Weid, these roughnecks are trying 
to tear the building down.
(Weidlein) Never mind, Snyd, old boy, that means 
more breakage fee and better cigars next year.
In the second act a faculty meeting is represented 
in session (it looked like a Russian anarchist meet
ing) in which the matter of the new Applied Design 
building is discussed with reference to how the rooms 
- in same were to be arranged. Mr. Ferrand suggests 
that a brewery be put in the basement so as to be 
convenient to the study rooms in which the German 
national beverage is imbibed along with the tenets 
of the higher education.
The matter as to how the money given to the 
schools is also discussed and Mr. Schuab asks why 
the money should not be used as it would be in dear 
old Penn (evidently Mr. Schuab is from the Univer
sity of Pennsylvania.
A motion is put by one of the faculty present that 
the money be used to paint the architects windows 
black so the girls wont blush when they go by. 
SchapperI second it.
HornbostelRotten! >
Faculty in chorusRotten!
FerrandI tell you what, I move that a monu
ment be erected to Weidlein, Orbin and Company. 
Faculty in chorusFine, bully, thats the idea. 
The following are gentlemen of the Applied Design 
School wrho took part in the two act drama:
A. H. Gilkison
F. X. Keally 
H. H. Brown 
W. F. Burkhart, Jr.
C. E. Moss 
C. J. Hatcher
D. L. Evans 
T. J. Raguerre
One or two others whose names are not to hand 
at this writing.
As said before the show was admirable and the 
Tartan believes in giving honor to whom honor is 
due, but is hampered by the extreme modesty of the 
author of the two act drama, who in spite of al coax
ing will not permit his name to be divulged to the 
applauding public. Such a display of modesty ap
pears to be without parallel in these days of the 
harem skirt.
A further effort will be made, 1 iwever, by Tar .an 
to get the permission of this m> lest gentlemen to 
have his name given to the public

---------------------------------------------------

6THE TARTAN
CARNEGIE MECHANICAL MEETING
Last Saturday evening, the Carnegie Mechanical 
Society met in regular session and heard a lecture 
by Mr. Thayer of the Civil Department on Bridges.
The lecture which was illustrated by lantern slides, 
was very interesting throughout and can be charac
terized as being one of the best the Society has heard 
this year.
After the lecture, while the refreshments were 
being partaken off, Mr. Thayer was plied with numer
ous questions by most of those present. At the bus
iness meeting the resignation of H. T. Woods, the 
president of the society was read and accepted, the 
secretary being instructed to convey to Mr. Woods 
the thanks of the society for his past excellent ser
vices. Mr. Woods has left the schools.
The matter of how to devise ways and means of 
raising money to furnish a club room in the building 
was discussed and later left in the hands of a com
mittee composed of the following gentlemen:
H. C. Barchfield, Chairman. W. Fleming, Alfred J. 
Ormston.
Alfred has already conceived of a scheme*
CIVIL SOCIETY ELECTS OFFICERS.
At the regular monthly meeting of the Civil En
gineering Society the following officers were elected 
for the second semester:
PrsidentH. C. Witte.
First Vice PresidentC. H. McCall.
Second Vice PresidentW. J. Sherrard.
SecretaryJ. R. Boyd.
TreasurerN. Mueller.
After the business was dispensed with, Mr. Reym.er, Assistant Chief Engineer of the Pittsburgh and 
Lae Erie Railroad, gave a very interesting paper on 
the construction of the superstructure of the canti
lever bridge at Beaver, Pa. Mr. Reymer is to read 
this same paper soon before the American Society 
of Civil Engineers in New York. After the reading 
of the paper quite a few interesting discussions 
arose regarding the methods of construction.
MHO CLUB MEETING.
The regular monthly meeting of the Mho Club was 
held Wednesday evening, March 1st. Several busi
ness matters were brought before the club and dis
cussed. Mr. Waxman gave a very interesting and 
instructive paper on Scientific Management, and 
many points of interest were afterwards brought up 
and discussed by the members, after which the meet
ing was adjourned and the usual refreshments 
served.
M. L. Patterson, Secretary.
SheI love to dance with a hat. 
HeId rather dance with a skirt.
AERO CLUB
Communications from several Aero Colleges show 
that interest in the subject of the hour is general, 
and that the students of other institutions are enthus
iastically taking off their coats both figuratively and 
literally and earning a name for themselves and their 
Alma Maters.
To be able to appreciate aeronautics needs imag
ination and it is useless to expect that every one is 
possessed of sufficient imagination to take up aero
nautics. It is the same in every art and science and 
Kipling hits off the situation very well in his poem, 
The Story of Ung, which by the way is well worth # 
reading. It is for those who can see, to do. In every 
student body there are always certain small groups 
of men who take up every branch of the worlds 
science and pursue them to their own and their in
stitutions profit. It might be the same here.
Let us see what other clubs are doing. We find 
that Harvard has 360 members and an aeroplane 
which if not perfect is orginal in conception and wiil 
fly. All honor to the fine spirited students who have 
successfully gathered together the worlds airmen 
in a meet which has spread the name of their insti
tution broadcast,,the synonym of public spirited loy 
alty to the Alma Mater.
Boston Tech with 20 members has a working glid
er, an aeroplane which has been successfully flown 
in towed flights and in which a motor is now being in
stalled. Purdue, Illinois, Notre Dame, Leland Stan
ford, State have also active and well organized so
cieties.
GLEE CLUB GIVES SEVERAL CONCERTS IN ONE 
NIGHT
A short concert was given by the Glee and Mando
lin Clubs last Friday night to the pupils and teachers 
of the Pittsburgh Playgrounds Association. The af
fair was very much enjoyed by the youngsters and 
the clubs were encored after every piece.
After 9.30 when the concert was over the Tech men 
decided they would make a more complete evening 
of it and with this idea in mind they paraded down 
street, singing a marching song. At a fire barn a 
twenty minute concert was given to the men inside 
and this was supposed to be followed by an attack on 
a police station but as one was not handy a.nichelodeon was stormed instead.
GLEE CLUB NOTICE
Members will reserve the following dates for en
gagements which have been booked:
Natrona, Pa....................... ........................................March 17
Carnegie Hall ...........................................................March 28
Allegheny ......................................................................April 3
McKees Rocks ...........................................................Pending
Butler ............................................................................Pending
Button, Manager

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
HatsCpFtpuaHr truni FhsCnCpCg* gPF*i
The Sixth Annual exhibit of the Pittsburgh Arch
itectural Clubs is now in progress at Carnegie In
stitute galleries. A grand total of more than 650 
subjects are catalogued, representing some of the 
finest architectural construction of the world, includ
ing sculptures, public and private buildings, decora
tive schemes for interiors, landscapes and designs 
for memorial windows. This exhibit continues until 
March 15.
The drawings submitted by the students of Applied 
Design have received very favorable comments and 
they compare very well indeed with the other draw
ings entered. The University of Pennsylvania, Mass
achusetts Institute of Technology, and the Beaux 
Arts Society of New York have also contributed to 
this exhibition.
RELAY TRIALS.
The trials for positions on the relay teams that 
will represent Carnegie Tech next Friday night at 
the Y. M. C. A. meet in the Gardens were held on 
Monday, February 27. A large number of men re
ported to Capt. Waite at the Bedford Rink, and. all 
were given trials at the quarter-mile, as well as prac
tice at getting away from the mark. Good time for 
the distance was made by most of the men, and the 
teams that will represent the Plaid in the seasons 
first race are expected to show up those coming from 
the many other colleges that will be represented.
Two teams will be entered in the college relay 
races, and numerous entries in the other events have 
been made. Every Tech man should be at the Gar
dens on Friday night to pull our fellows over the 
line first by good, hearty cheering. The track team 
deserves your support as much as the other teams 
and should get it.
The following men reported for trial: Wilcox, McCrory, Crawford, Sperry, Colwell, Fish, Wallace, 
Kirchenbauer, C. V. Martin, C. W. Martin, Murphy, 
Lose, Sutherin, Smith, Waite, and Beeken.
SOPHS NOSE OUT.
Last Fridays game between the basket-ball teams 
representing the Juniors and Seniors and the Sopho
mores was a spirited contest for supremacy. 
Straight basket ball was used by both sides and 
team work was in evidence only enough to show 
that two teams were playing. Schuckman, playing 
in the second half, was the individual star of the 
game, with a seven-point score to his credit. Crane 
and Clements also featured for the Sophs, the latters field goal in the second half being a spectacu
lar long shot from one side. Raisig and Blanchard 
played well at forwrad for the upper-class men, and 
Holliday put up an excellent game at center. The 
line-up:
Juniors-Seniors16. Sophs18
Raisig......................................F.................................. Simpson
Blanchard..............................F....................................... Crane
Holliday..................................C..................Bailey-Clements
Kaul.........................................G... Clements-Schuckman
McKee.................................G........................................ Blair
Field goalsRaisig 3,Schuckman 3, Crane 2, Blanchard2, Simpson, Clements, Holliday, Blair. Foul goals 
Holliday 4 out of 6, Crane 1 out of 5, Schuckman 
1 out of 1. ScoreFirst halfJ. & S. 9 to Sophs 7.
NEAR-GRADS WIN.
The Tournament basket ball game scheduled be
tween the Science Juniors and Seniors and the Inrustri.es Plebes was won by the upper-class men by 
a score of 18 to 9. The winners had the best of tne 
game in all departments. McKee and Butler feat
ured for their team, while Vaughan and Wardner 
did all the scoring for the Plebes. The score:
Science J. & S.18. Indus. Plebes9.
Raisig........................................ ..F........................... Vaughn
Blanchard.............................F................................. Wardner
Boots.......................................C.................................... Boilean
McKee....................................G................................... Lafferty
Butler.....................................G.................................. Stickney
Field goalsButler 4, McKee. 3, Blanchard, Raisig, 
Vaughn 2, Wardner 2. Foul goalsWardner 1 out 
of 2, Blanchard 0 out of 1. ScoreFirst half, Sci
ence 10, Ind. 5.
ALL-COLLEGIATE HOCKEY TEAM.
Mr. G. A. Hornfeck, a noted hockey expert, has se
lected a representative team from the members of
the teams composing the Inter-Collegiate League. 
The colleges represented in this hockey league are 
Yale, Cornell, Harvard, Columbia, Princeton, and 
Dartmouth. Cornell won first place on straight 
games, while Harvards only loss was to Cornell. 
The team elected is as follows:
Player, College. Position.
Vail............................................Cornell............................ Goal
Blair...................................Princeton............................ Point
Huntington........................Harvard........... Cover Point
Hornblower...........................Harvard.................. Rover
Magner.....................................Cornell................... Center
Loutrell...............................Yale......................... Left Wing
Cressweller.......................Cornell............ Right Wing
A noteworthy fact is that the captains of Yale,
Harvard and Cornell are all included in the selec
tion.
Prof. J. J. McCook of Trinity College proposes that 
Amherst, Tufts and M. I. T. become affiliated with 
Harvard.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TA RTAN
Published Weekly During the School Year by 
Students of Carnegie Technical Schools, Pitts
burgh, Pennsylvania
EDITORIAL BOARD.
Donald D. Mitchell, 12................Editor-in-Chief
David Henderson, 12...........Associate Editor
C. B. Kline, 13..................................Athletic Editor
Helen M. Baglin, 11, M. M. C. S., Assoc. Editor 
Florence A. Flinn, 11, M.M.C.S., Assist Editor 
W. H. Buente, 12..........................Assistant Editor
H. J.McCorkle, 11.................BusinessManager
G. G.Kelcey, 14.:.............AdvertisingManager
CLASS REPRESENTATIVES 
Day Classes 
School of Applied Science
Ft. P.Bascom .................................................___1911
___1912
E. J.Duff, Jr..................................................___1913
B. J.Kennedy ...........................................
School of Applied Design
1914
J. H.Barker ..............................................1913
School of Applied Industries
W. TAhlers ...................................................1911
E. S.Keally ...............................................1913
Night Classes 
School of Applied Science
O. A.
School of Applied Design 
School of Applied Industries
Subscription Rates
Yearly ........................................................................$2.00
Single Copy.......................................................10 Cents
Student Rates
Yearly ......................................................................$1.00
Single Copy.........................................................5 Cents
For Advertising Rates, address the Business Manager, care 
Carnegie Technical Schools
MUSICAL CLUBS ISSUE OF THE TARTAN.
The issue of The Tartan due to arrive on March 
22d, will be devoted to Musical Club, whose annual 
concert at Carnegie Hall takes place on the evening 
of March 28th. This issue will contain cuts of the 
clubs, directors and the officers and will be worth 
having and keeping.
We beg to call your attention to the addition of 
the list of class representatives printed above. A 
glance is enough to show you that this list is very 
incomplete. In point of fact, only seven of a possible 
nineteen classes are represented. It is of course 
possible that some of the remaining classes have
elected men but the Tartan has no knowledge of the 
fact.
Our object in placing the list in its present posi
tion is simply this. We feel that at present the Tar
tan does not contain enough of interest about the 
various classes and the men elected by these classes 
to furnish that very thing are not all of them doing 
their duty. It is obviously impossible for the regu
lar Tartan Board of six members to cover the entire 
field. It is a physical impossibility. We therefore 
confine our activities to things of general interest 
and importance, picking up what little class news we 
may. The balance of the class items are contributed 
by the elected class representatives. If your class 
never had its affairs noticed it is because your rep
resentative is not performing the duties of the office 
to which you elected him. It then becomes, clearly, 
a matter of your own interest and welfare.
If you have elected men to represent you in the 
Tartan and their name does not appear above you 
will confer a favor upon us by calling our attention 
to the fact. The Tartan has been in the past, and 
will be in the future, grateful for the contribution of 
any article that can be used for publication and we 
have decided to show our appreciation in the follow
ing manner. To every class representative who, dur
ing the term for which he was elected, does faithful 
and efficient work in the performance of his duties 
the Tartan will give a Tartan fob, the Editorial 
Board to constitute the jury in deciding upon the per
sons deserving this reward. The fobs will be of a 
distinctive design and will have engraved upon it the 
name of the receiver and the year together with the 
reason for its being awarded. This is purely a mark 
of merit and, as before stated, will be given to give 
some expression to our appreciation of a duty well 
done.
It might also be well to state here a few facts 
concerning the material submitted. There are now 
in place, or will be in place this week, boxes for the 
receipt of material intended for publication. In the 
Science Building the box is in-the smoking room, in 
the Industries Building it is near the mail box in the 
lower coridor, and in the Design it is near the bulle
tin boards. All material must be in these boxes by 
12 oclock noon on Monday or it will not make that 
weeks issue. All material should be legibly written 
on one side of the paper only. The separate sheets 
should either be fastened together or numbered and 
should contain the name of the sender in order that 
we may know to whom to give the credit. All mater
ial should be of a more or less general interest. Do 
not send in personal jokes that can be only under
stood by two or three. If at any time you feel that 
your material is not receiving fair play let us know, 
either in person or by letter. We try to give to every 
individual and to every class the square deal and if 
you think that you are not receiving it kindly let us 
know so that we can discuss the matter together and 
find out which is in the wrong.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
During the last week the daily papers have been 
spreading articles on their sporting page concerning 
an alleged breach of faith by Carnegie Tech. The 
occasion of all this was a game of basket-ball pro
posed between Tech and Pitt to decide the local 
championship. Pitt, through the daily press, claims 
that contracts were made for a game to be played 
last Friday at the Gardens, and that Manager Blanch
ard deliberately and inexcusably broke those con
tracts. Manager Blanchard has wisely refrained from 
replying in the newspapers to these attacts, as any 
denial would be twisted into a statement reflecting 
discredit on the schools. The facts, however, are 
due to the students and to the alumni and are pub
lished at the request of representatives of both 
bodies.
A game was proposed between the managers of 
the two teams and would have been played had they 
been able to decide as to a place. Pitt would not 
play at the Field House, and when a neutral floor 
was proposed, Manager Hurst could not find one 
on which he would agree. He then proposed the Gar
dens, Pitts own floor, but the cage in which they 
play was the cause of dissension by our representa
tive. It will be remembered that two of our men 
were cut by being thrown against the wire netting 
in our first game with Pitt. The strongest argument 
against the cage was that such a construction is not 
allowed in the Inter-collegiate rules, under which the 
game would have been played. Manager Hurst would 
not remove the cage because of expense, and Manager 
Blanchard would not consider the game because of 
the cage. If that condition of affairs was construed 
as a contract by Pitt, the law of contracts is taught 
differently there than it is here.
THE REASON WHY
CRAFTSMEN CLUB TO HOLD SMOKER
On the 3rd of March at 9.30 the Craftsmans Club 
held an open meeting, a very large crowd being in 
attendance and it was decided upon to hold a Smok
er on the night of March 17th, the glorious St Pat
ricks Day, in the Assembly Room. Come one, come 
all, clad in the colors of the old Sod, and we will 
smoke the pipe of clay and have lots of amuse
ment, and make this memorial night go down in his
tory.
Mr. Connelly gave us an interesting talk upon, the 
merits of forming any club within the schools, and 
of taking trips through the steel mills, Dr. Brashears 
Observatory, etc.
After the business of the evening candidates for 
the Craftsmans Glee Club were tried out and some 
good voices were obtained. It is now expected that 
this newly formed club will assist on the night of the 
smoker. ..G. C. Swyer.
Why is the crow the most sensible of birds? 
Because it never complains without cause.Ex.
| THE DEANS COLUMN
*
Pittsburgh, Pa., March 6th, 1911.
Dear Mr. Editor: 
Am very sorry that my absence from the city 
last week caused a break in the Deans column, but 
as Mr. Leete made mention of the patience of the 
readers of the Tartan in his last letter, the break is 
perhaps more of a blessing than otherwise; how
ever, with your indulgence, I will give a word or 
two on the subject.
What Shall the Student Read?
This is an important subject and I will try, in a 
brief way, to answer it for our own students.
Some one has said that, It is a generally recog
nized fact in educational circles that students de
voted to the pursuit of industrial, technical or pro
fessional courses are very apt to become stilted and 
narrow in their cultural and general attainments 
because of their confinement to the particular ob
jects of their chosen vocations or professions.
Thus students whose education is primarily of a 
technical character, as well as those whose object 
is a professional point, frequently become so ab
sorbed in their desire to perfect themselves in their 
own particular fields that they soon lose sight of 
the necessity that requires every man who would 
hold his proper place in the industrial, technical or 
professional circles of the community to imbibe, 
along with his specific education, a degree of cul
ture and learning that will enable him to meet his 
fellows and, often, his competitors, on an equal foot 
ing in every phase of commercial and social life.
Dr. Brashear has suggested that the best preventa
tive of a stilted education is for every student to 
have some kind of a hobby for himself independent 
of the particular work he is pursuing at his school or 
college. Some educators have even gone so far as 
to say that no matter what the hobby is, just so 
it be unconnected with the daily work of the student 
at school, the beneficial effects of it make it worth 
while for the student to give it his attention in leis
ure hours. Be that as it may, the fact must be pat
ent to all that the mind of any student, as well as 
his bearing and manners, cannot be developed satis
factorily unless he devote at least a little of his 
spare time to the pursuit of things other than his 
technical or professional career.
Personally, I believe the best hobby, or what
ever else it may be called, that a student can follow 
up in moments of rest from his study is a systematic 
course of reading. Any change of occupation is rest, 
and so will a change of subject rest the mind of the 
student and, in addition to this, will give him attain
ments that are not readily acquired otherwise.
Naturally enough, a students reading is apt to be 
confined to lines closely associated with his studies

---------------------------------------------------

10THE TARTAN
and vocation, and while there can be no substantial 
objection by any one to this, yet the student must 
bear in mind that his reading must not be entirely 
limited to subjects related to his studies or career. 
There must be, along with this, a broader coarse of 
reading, and while it is difficult to prepare a program 
which will meet the abilities and tastes of every 
student, yet I shall attempt here to suggest a gen
eral course of reading along current lines which 
ought to appeal to most students.
First of all, I would recommend that all students 
read the daily reputable papers. No man can suc
ceed now-a-days, no matter what his profession or 
vocation be, unless he keep abreast of the times and 
feel the worlds pulse beating in its daily evolution. 
ihe Associated Press dispatches, bringing home 
news from every part of the world and uniting man
kind in a bond of common knowledge, contan much 
that is of importance to every student in shaping 
his career and in obtaining a broad and liberal view 
of things and of men. Then, too, there are to be 
found in the daily papers reports of local occur
rences, the current of public opinion, the attempts 
of legislatures to meet the popular demands for improvementg in the social and economic spheres, the 
comments of able thinkers contained in the editorial 
columns of the papers, and many other features that 
contribute materially to the full development of 
ones mind and ideas.
Secondly, every student should read a standard 
weekly periodical, such as The Outlook, The Inde
pendent, or The Literary Digest. Here the current 
movements of the world along political, economic 
and literary lines are to be found treated and dis
cussed from the viewpoints of able men and women, 
and the progress of the world is interpreted from 
various aspects. For the busy student, these wreekly 
treatments of the worlds doings will be found of in
valuable help. It would also add greatly to the 
knowledge of the student to read The American 
Machinist, Scientific American and Scientific Ameri
can Supplement.
Thirdly, no student should consider his reading 
course complete unless he devotes a portion of his 
time each month to the perusal of some standard 
magazine. For the student who desires his monthly 
reading to be in some measure related to his owrn 
work, such magazines as The Popular Mechanics, 
and Power, or any high-class Technical magazine 
will be found interesting as well as highly instruct
ive. Then there are such magazines as The Worlds 
Work, recording the work of the world and its work
ers in graphic and interesting style, supplemented 
with attractive and correct illustrations. And those 
students who have the time should add to this list 
of monthly magazines such standard periodicals as 
McClures magazine, The Atlantic Monthly, and other 
publications which deal with vital problems of the 
economic and literary world in a very acceptable 
manner.
Students will soon perceive that the lists hre 
given are rather suggestive than complete, for the 
field of publications at present is so large and varied 
that one can merely outline a general class rather 
than detail an extended list. I have not devoted 
much stress to the reading of popular magazines and 
short story periodicals, not so much because I would 
not have the student give up some of his time to 
these, as because I feel sure that the average stu
dent will and does read these periodicals now of his 
own accord and inclination. I have tried to point 
out a few new fields of reading rather than to re
view old and accustomed ones.
A large wholesale merchant of this country re
marked recently to our Mr. Peters that any person 
who would carefully and regularly for five years 
read along the lines of a similar course as indicated 
above would acquire an education of a kind which 
would manifest itself beneficially in his speech, his 
written style, and in his attitude towards society in 
general. And it is this cultural bearing that every 
student in the industrial, technical and professional 
world should aim to acquire.
* C. B. Connelly.
AIR AND VENTILATION IN COLLEGE
At the recent annual meeting of the Society of 
Directors of Physical Education in Colleges held at 
Columbia University several interesting papers were 
read. Dr. Savage was present at the meeting and 
from him we get the following items concerning a 
paper on Air and Ventilation in College, read by 
Dr. John W. Bowler.
Dr. Bowler described the methods employed by Dr. 
H. N. Kingsford, Professor of Pathology in the Darthmouth Medical School, to determine the bacterial 
content in the air of the recitation rooms and halls 
at the college. Dishes containing glycerine-agar were 
exposed for 15 minutes in a room and then incubated 
for 24 hours. It was found that the most necessary 
time to disinfect to be on the return of the students 
to college from vacations or games as they brought 
gers of disease from the outside. It was also found 
that certain germs increased from 50-75% in the win
ter months, due to the closer confinement and less 
ventilation.
It would seem from the discussions that some rad
ical changes in the theories and methods of ventila
tion would be made and that in the future more at
tention would be paid to the humidity and temper
ature of the air and less to the amount of co2 and 
other content.
Due to the extremely technical nature of Prof. 
Schappers lectures they will be postponed for the 
present until the members of the club are sufficiently 
organized and augmented to make the lectures profit 
able. Wtn, Bergun Chalfant, Acting Secretary.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN11
BIG TRACK MEET
DUQUESNE GARDEN
FRIDAY, MARCH ioth, at 7.30 P. M.
Q
$*0I
0 Tech has entered two relay teams and several men in other events. Be there and ^
0 help us win. A section has been reserved for Tech students until |j
^ Thursday evening. Tickets on sale at Spaulings. *
H**gu*tFEF*p gN psF ArFF H*D EH*DgO
rC* LIST$o cleq LldLqy,
The annual Home Concert of the Glee and Mando
lin Clubs will be held in Carnegie Music Hall, on 
Tuesday evening, March 28, at 8 p. m. At the conclu
sion of the concert, which will probably close before 
ten p. m., the faculty, alumni and such students as 
comply with the necessary restrictions will adjourn 
to the Conservatory of Music, 128 Dithridge street, 
a short distance from Carnegie Music Hall. Here a 
reception and dance will fill in the remainder of the 
evening. It is the desire of the management that 
this reception and dance after the concert should be
come a fixed function in the years to come.
The reception and dance feature is to be an in
formal affair and no extra assessment will be made. 
The seat coupons for either the $1.50 or $1.00 seats 
being all that will be needed in the way of a pass
port. This function will be open only to the members 
of the faculty, alumni and student body together 
with their wives and ladies. The students not coming 
to attend will receive the customary rebate of 25 cts. 
on the 75 cent and 50 cent seats, no rebate at all be
ing made this year on the $1.50 and $1.00 seats.
Each department of the Schools has a representa
tive who will sell tickets in his respective division. 
The list of these representatives will be published 
in this issue of the Tartan and also be posted. The 
seat sale will open to the students and facualty at 
the store room on Monday, March 20, when seats 
will be both exchanged and sold out right. This sale 
is placed five days in advance of the regular sale 
down town in order that all students will have ample 
opportunity to make their selections Carnegie Hall 
holds 1968 people, outside the boxes, and our student 
body numbers 2300, approximately. Therefore their 
is no reason why the hall should not be filled com
pletely. The clubs are this year putting on a new 
type of program which is vastly more interesting 
than the conventional one used by the college clubs 
in the past. It is full of new features and surprises.
If you are a loyal student you will, of course, be 
there. If you are interested in good music you will 
want to go. If you enjoy socialbility you cannot af
ford to miss it. If you are neither a loyal student
nor interested in music, you will probably be at
tracted by the large amount of entertainment offered. 
At all events, we shall expect you and are making 
provision for you. In a wordsave March 28 for one 
of the big events of the year.
L. H. Button, Manager.
MORE NEW EQUIPMENT FOR MECHANICAL 
LABORATORY.
Last week saw the arrival of some more new 
equipment for the Mechanical Laboratory. It con
sists of three new valve models from the Cussons 
Technical Works in Manchester, England. The first 
model is a four-stroke cycle gas engine, showing the 
transmission of the motion, the timing of the inlet 
and exhaust valve, and is also to be equipped with 
some apparatus for showung the timing of the igni
tion. This last feature is an addition which is to 
be done by the mechanician under the supervision 
of Prof. Trinks. The second model is a Stevenson 
reversing valve gear with all possible adjustments 
open links, crossed links, adjustable eccentrics, and 
adjustable transmission of motion. The last model 
is the Walschaert valve gear of the single eccen
tric type.
With the aid of these models the student will be 
enabled to more easily grasp the difficult subject of 
valve-gearing!
INTER-CLVSS LEAGUE.
Class.W.L.Standing
Science Plebes .......................601.000
Science Sophs ...........................51.833
Science J. & S............................42.667
Industries, Lower ..................33.500
Industries, M. & M..............14.200
Design Plebes ........................05.000
Design Sophs ......................04.000
Design J. & S......................05.000
The Industries MiddleandUpperteamforfeited
to the Science Plebes 2to 0by notappearing on
Friday. *
The Design Plebes, as usual, forfeited a game to 
the Industries Plebes on Monday, March 6, by 2 to 0.

---------------------------------------------------

12THE TARTAN
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON
PENN AND FRANKSTOWN AVENUES EAST END
SHOES
SEE THE NEW TOE K I I) I) O 
Made up in Heavy Fall and Winter Tan Button and Blucher 
SEE OUR FOUR SHOW WINDOWS EOR THE FALL STYLES
Full Time.
Structural Draftsman, Washington, D. C. Civil 
Engineer required who has had additional experience 
along mechanical and architectural lines. Salary 
$1,800 per annum.
Mechanical Engineer, experienced in design of 
pumps, air compressors, gasoline and oil engines, 
hoisting machinery, etc. Work in New York. Sal
ary $150 per month.
Clerical$50.00 per month. Work in Pittsburgh.
Assistant foreman in shop$18.00 per week. Work 
is in Erie, Pa.
Draftsman on valves, etc.graduate or advanced 
night student in Mechanical Engineering required. 
Work in Pittsburgh. Salary $70$90 per month.
Assistant to Purchasing Agent of large concern 
near Pittsburgh. Man with some technical training 
required, but particularly one with energy and good 
personality. Wages at start $75.00 per month.
Electrical Workchance to start in Telephone 
Company in Pittsburgh. Low wages at start.
Civil Engineer with experience in hydraulic work, 
capable of laying out plans for water works, estimat
ing on material, etc. Work in Pittsburgh. Salary 
estimated at $125$150 per month.
Part Time.
SolicitingVarious lines.
H. D. Chambers, 10, Applied Industries, gave up 
his work last month at the Fawcus Machine Com
pany, to enter the drafting-room of Stoner, Thaw & 
Co., of this city.
LIST OF GLEE CLUB REPRESENTATIVES WITH 
TICKETS
The following Glee and Mandolin Club representa
tives have been appointed to distribute tickets for 
the Home Concert:
PLEBE BASE BALL MANAGER ELECTED.
At a spirited meeting Mr. C. E. Brine was elected 
manager of the base ball team of the Plebe Class. 
Mr. Brine is looking forward to an early season, and 
would like to have the other classes co-operate to 
form a schedule of games to bg played between class 
teams.
John S. Charles, 10, Applied Science, is employed 
on experimental work in the steam and general test
ing laboratory of Jones & Laughlin Steel Co.
Charles Glass has recently accepted a position as 
chemist for the Calcium Light and Film Co.
School of Applied Science,
Seniors ............................................... W. P. Gettman
Senior Mechanicals .............................. F. H. Kindi
Junior Mechanicals ..................................F. H.Kindi
Junior Civils, Miners, Metal...............H. A. Warne
Sophs Mechanical.............Lambert and Shuckmai?
Sophs Civil .......................................................... Bailey
Sophs, Electrical..............Gaylord and Kupovitck
Sophs Miners, Metal., Chem..................... Crawford
Plebe, Sec. A. & B...........................................Madison
Plebe, Sec. A. & B.........*...................................Kelcey
Plebe, Sec. D. & F.................................Montgomery
Night School
Fifth Year Night ............................................Daugherty
Fourth Year Night............................................Brendel
Second Year Night........................................Woellmer
School of Applied Design
Martin, Finkel, Button
School of Applied IndustryDay
Plebes..............................................Veder, Hamilton
Night
, Sec. C. D..................................................................Wolf
Sec. A. B.................................................................Orrill

---------------------------------------------------

TUE TARTAN13
Jas. J. Fannsry, President. J. j. Booth, Vice-President, J. G. Pow, 2d Vice-Pres. and Sec'y
C. B. Aylesworth, Treasurer.
RESOURCES OVER ONE AND ONE HALF MILLION DOLLARS. DEPOSITS OVER ONE MIL
LION DOLLARS. CAPITAL AND SURPLUS OVER THREE HUNDRED AND SIXTY THOUS
AND DOLLARS. A BANK THAT IS STRONG IN ASSETS, IN MEN, IN COURTESY.
OAKLAND SAVINGS AND TRUST COMPANY
IROQUOIS BLOCK.
MR. JULIAN KENNEDY LECTURES.
The Tartan regrets that limited space precludes 
the printing of the whole of Mr. Kennedys lecture 
given last Thursday on Some Suggestions to the 
Young Engineer, but will coniine itself to giving a 
few extracts from sameextracts which have a 
special bearing on the engineering student of these 
Schools.
The first extract is from that part of his lecture 
in which he upholds and approves of the methods
of teaching and the subjects taught in the engineer
ing schools of today. He says:
You will soon find that many kinds of knowledge
which you have perhaps considered useless are im
portant and essential in your professional work. It 
is a mistake made by most students, and I have no 
doubt many of ycu have made it, to think that the 
faculty of the School have introduced too many gen
eral studies into the course instead of giving all, or 
nearly all, of the time to purely technical # studies 
and practical work closely related to engineering. 
To those of you who have had this feeling, I would 
only say that your views will change as you go on 
and in ten years from now you will think more of the 
judgment of the faculty in these matters than you do 
at present. There is no doubt that your instructors 
could map out a course which would turn out gradu
ates who would be able to start in practical work 
with much more ease and readiness than you can, in 
the field or the drawing room learning practical en
gineering, would, other things being equal, be able 
to do routine*work in an engineering office much bet
ter than you could do it, but on the other hand in a 
very few years you should be far ahead of him. In 
other words, your instructors have been wise to give 
you a broad and liberal training and to forego teach
ing you some of those things which would come 
nearest to making of you engineers at the time you 
finish your course in order to give you more of the 
broad and fundamental principles, the mastery of 
which will enable you in a reasonable time to be
come much abler and more valuable engineers than 
if your training here had aimed to teach you the 
maximum amount of that kind of technical informa
tion which is supposed to be most immediately use
ful to the young graduate. It is much better for 
you to have a broad, liberal education and a little
engineering knowledge when you leave here than to 
have a much greater amount of practical and tech
nical knowledge without a liberal education. In 
your future work you will learn that it is much easier
10 find among technical graduates good designers of 
machinery or fine mathematician than it is to find 
those who can write a satisfactory contract or even 
a good business letter.
At some stage of your career, some of you at 
leas- will be called upon to purchase large amounts 
of machinery and materials, when you will find that 
the ability to write a contract from which not one 
word can be omitted and of which not one sentence 
can be construed in more than one way, will be of 
more value to you than even a knowledge of the 
method of least squares, which some of you may per
chance have forgotten by that time. Not only will 
your opinion of the judgment of the faculty change, 
but your general impressions of them will also be 
radically revised. In my student days there was a 
song, the refrain of which was, Therell be no fac
ulty there; but after graduating you will begin to 
appreciate the faculty and year by year this appre
ciation will grow stronger until you will finally ar
rive at a somewhat adequate idea of what you owe 
to them to realize that not to its buildings, not to its 
endowment, not to its alumni does your institute 
owe its greatness, but more than all of these com
bined to that noble, earnest, unselfish, self-sacrificing 
band of men, its faculty, and as the years roll round 
you will appreciate how many of them have given 
up the chance of much greater material reward in 
other lines of work in order to do the more impor
tant work of fitting you to be an honor to your 
Schooi and a benefit to the world, and at the end of 
a quarter of a century those of you who are living 
will be amazed at the interest taken in you one and 
all by the faculty, who, like a mother, never forget 
their boys and grieve over their misfortunes and 
glory in their success.
Another part of this lecture dealt with the commer
cial conditions that enter into the designing of ma
chinery. He said:
I have spoken of the engineers purchasing mate
rials and making contracts, which leads to the 
thought that a large part of engineering is commer
cial, and that commercial considerations must be 
given weight in all engineering work. We are some

---------------------------------------------------

14THE TARTAN
times inclined to forego these and strive to produce 
something ideal, without reference to the question 
of whether it will be profitable or not. The man who 
puts in an elaborately designed machine to displace 
two laborers in a plant and finds that instead of 
them he has one skilled man operating that machine 
and two high-priced machinists keeping it in repair, 
may be a genius and a skillful machanician, but he 
is not accomplishing what is generally wanted. You 
will be surprised when you get nto actual work to 
find how often commercial conditions are ignored 
by engineers, and not be engineers only. It may be. 
your experience at some time to work hard for weeks 
at the urgent demand of a Board of Directors to try 
to reduce the cost of labor in a plant by five or ten 
cents per ton of product and you may spend many 
thousand dollars to accomplish this, while at the 
same time the output of the works is being sold year 
in and year out at a dollar or two a ton below the 
price it ought to bring. You will find also in many 
cases that costly machines are installed to effect 
savings which are offset many times over by the in
terest on the cost of the machinery and its main
tenance. You will also find installed elaborate and 
intricate machinery to effect the highest ultimate 
saving, which because of the complication becomes 
unreliable and subject to breakage, and you will be 
surprised to find in how many cases an hours stop
page of a machine which forms part of a large and 
highly organized plant will cause a loss of more 
money than would be saved in a year by this highly 
efficient machine as compared with a less efficient 
but thoroughly reliable one. The larger and more 
complicated a plant is and the more highly organ
ized the sequence of operations carried on, in it, the 
more important it is that all machinery should 
first of all be as reliable as it can be made. It 
should, therefore, be your aim to acquire as rapidly 
as possible, in addition to your mechanical ability, 
good commercial judgment, and a wide - experience, 
enabling you to judge which of several different 
paths is apt to lead to commercial success.
In the latter part of his lecture he said with refer
ence to what the attitude of one should be who di
rects large bodies of men.
In your engineering work you will possibly have 
to direct large bodies of men and here you will need 
judgment, tact, and knowledge of human nature, to
gether with firmness and decision and a spirit of 
fairness. In addition to handling men successfully, 
you should make it a rule to learn from them and
you will be surprised at the great amount of infor
mation you can gather in this way, especially among 
mechanics. Twenty or thirty years ago there was, 
among the so-called practical mechanical men of 
this country, a good deal of contempt for the tech
nical graduate. This feeling has to a large extent 
ceased to exist, but on the other hand I fear there is 
a tendency on the part of the technically trained 
man at the present time to greatly underestimate 
the value of the knowledge of the first class me
chanic acquired by long practical experience. Many 
engineers would rise much higher in their profession 
if they had the faculty of absorbing useful informa
tion from the working mechanics, many of whom 
have wonderful ability, and can give most valuable 
information. In a still wider sense engineers can 
get a great deal of information from their brother 
engineers and team work is just as essential in car
rying on engineering work as it is in winning a 
game of foot ball. As you can obtain a large amount 
of aid from other engineers, so it should be your duty 
and your pleasure to impart information to your en
gineering brethren, especially to the younger mem
bers of the guild. Make friends among men of high 
standing and greater experience than your own and 
hold them. Always see a desirable position ahead 
of you and strive to be prepared for it mentally and 
physically. Remember that often a strong constitu
tion and a vigorous brain will cause you to win 
where others have failed. Bear in mind that booze 
and business do not mix, and that the demand for 
sober, steady men grows stronger. In men as in 
machinery, what is most wanted is reliability. In 
all things so shape your actions that if failure comes 
to you, you shall have done better than to achieve 
success by deserving it,and so that you can inscribe 
upon the dismantled mill or the abandoned mine all 
is lost save honor.
MR. HEWLETT LECTURES BEFORE CURRENT 
EVENTS CLUB.
Interior Decoration His Subject.
Last Wednesday Mr. Hewlett, of the School of 
Applied Design, lectured before the Current Events 
Club at the Fort Pitt Hotel, Interior Decoration 
being his subject. Mr. Hewlett began his lecture 
with the Renaissance period of Italy and ended 
with the more modern development in England, pass
ing through France and its development. The lec
ture was supplemented by some very beautiful and 
interesting stereopticon views.
GOOD CLOTHES CHEAPER
Federal St., North Side

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN15
M. M. C. S.In I!ajsjaisMSMaisMajajsMsisMSiaiasMajaajsjsjsjaiaMsisjaisjaj
The following Senior Committees were appointed:
Class Song Committee
Helen Baglin.
Eleanor Clark.
Marie Horne.
Music and Programme (Senior Ball)
Jane Linderman.
Florence Flinn.
Mary Hartman.
Sarah Frazer.
Decoration Committee (Senior Ball)
Luretia Kemple.
Mary Craighead.
Helen Stewart.
Margaretha Nichols..
Refreshment Committee (Senior Ball)
Edna Atwood.
Marion Burns.
Katharine Smickard.
Florence Callan.
COL. CHURCH LECTURES IN THE SCIENCE 
LECTURE COURSE.
At last Wednesday evenings lecture Col, Samuel 
H. Church, of the Penn. R. R. and trustee of the Car
negie Institute talked upon The Development of 
Human Liberty, with many references to the part 
played by George Washington in this development.
Col. Church stated that there was found recently 
in the banks of the Thames the skeleton of a man 
who is supposed to have lived 170,000 years ago, and 
that this together with several other newly discovered 
facts, seems to prove that man existed long before the 
time usually supposed. From that early date until 
the time of the Renaissance man was, in every re
spect, a slave to his superior in physical strength.
About the time of the Renaissance men began to 
think and gradually to build Uuiversities and Col
leges. The Inquisition attempted to make men stop 
thinking. Then came that great religious struggle 
called the Ten Year war and from that time men se
cured a certain amount of religious liberty but were 
still slaves in other respects.
Get your class fobs either nickel, silver or
gold, any year, at the SCHENLEY LUNCH,
Craig and Forbes. $4*Special offeronly a few fobs left at 25 .j,
* +cents. SCHENLEY LUNCH.
JACQUES DANCING ACADEMY, M
Craig and Forbes St., {ft
8 Beginners Class Tuesday and Saturday.  
)7) Advanced, Wednesday and Friday. si
PRIVATE LESSONS DAILY. ^
Our country was the first to grant that liberty cov
eted by all men. Col. Church attributed to George 
Washington this great advance in the cause of Human 
Liberty.
Col. Church impressed upon his audience how the 
faith and purpose of a single man wronght such a 
change in the condition of millions of men.
He gave also the following interesting facts:
France is the best country in the world for small 
land holdings. England has all the liberties which 
we have, except the right to hold land, 82,000 per
sons out of the total of 44,000,000 owing all the land.
SCIENCE PLEBES WIN AGAIN.
On Friday, February 24, the Science Plebes de
feated the first year men in the Applied Industries
School by a score of 18 to 8.
The game was well played and was won by good, 
consistent team work. Swearingen and Heilman
showed the best work for Science, and Vaughn and 
Wardner starred for the Industrials. The line-up:
Science Plebes18. Industries Plebes8
Swearingen............................F.............................. Wardner
Beeken.....................................F.............................. Stickney
Ballinger.................................C.................................. Heckel
Savage-Shenafelt.................G................................. Vaughn
Heilman..................................G................................ Lafferty
Field goalsSwearingen 3, Heilman 2, Vaughn 2, 
Savage, Ballinger, Shenafelt, Wardner. Foul goals 
Heilman 2 out of 3, Heckel 2 out of 2. ScoreFirst 
half, Science 10, Ind. 6.
* * * ? * * f f  * f *
Track Men, Attentionf ? I
Every afternoon at 4.00 oclock in the week there will be practice held at the Bedford Avenue 
Skating Rink. Take Centre Avenue car, get off at Erin street, walk two blocks North. Rink on corner 
of Erin street and Bedford avenue. Everybody expecting to enter the Y. M. C. A. meet on March 10th, 
report either to Capt. Wait or H. J. McCorkle.

---------------------------------------------------

16THE TARTAN
|j Oswald Werner & Sons Co,
(j Pittsburghs Oldest and Largestg
^ Dyeing and Cleaning Works
& true R A true* values  values
*j men's scarfs, 50c
* Plain French Faille Silk with Moire bordered endsstrictly new1% inches wide
* cut lengthwise of the Silk making a one-piece 
^ Scarf which cannot pull out of shape, and al* lows it to slip easily through the collar.
 52 different shades of all the popular col* GEO**K. ST E V E N S
* Fine Groceries Table Delicacies 4
 Cakes and Candies
^ Two Stores:
* 606 Wood Street, Downtown *
Highland and Center Avenues, E. E. ||j
(ft Bell Phone ft
*I DRESS SUIT RENTAL CO.
A 523 Pittsburg: !Life Building ^;
Uj liberty Ave and Sixth St., Pittsburg, Pa. n|
(U We have for rental Full Dress Suits, Tuxedos, Prince (T( V Alberts, White Vests, Opera Hats. O
OOXO%O%0XO%O\'O\a3tOXO%O%O\O%O^O\ONO\
a THE SCHENLEY FARMS 5A O
g The Garden Spot of Pittsburgh ^
g The place to live for convenience, pleasure and O 
g profit. '
O /
************************************ 
t * t Bellefield Presbyterian Church %
MELLON NATIONAL BANK
514 SMITHFIELD STREET 
409 MFTH AVENUE
SOLICITS THE ACCOUNTS OF
STUDENTS
$4,000,000
$3,200,000
CAPITAL
SURPLUS
0. C. HENRY 
321 Fifth Avenue
PHOTOGRAPHS 
We make a specialty of School Groups, Class and Fraternity Pictures 
Prices the lowest and work the bestCAMPBELL COYLE, Minister
9.45 A. M.Brotherhood Bible Study. 
11:00 A.M.Morning Service.
7:00 P.M.Y. P. S. C. E.
8:00 P. M.Evening Service.
SPORTSMENS SUPPLY COMPANY, INC. 
Guns, Ammunition, Sporting Goods, Cutlery 
and Fishing Tackle
Cameras, Canoes, Supplies for all In and OutDoor Athletic Sports and Recreations 
619 Smithfield Street - - PittsburghAll Tech Faculty and Student Body Welcome *
%*\*\*\***\*\*%*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*%*\*\*>^**\*%*\
The Worlds Best Hatters Make
Soft Hats and Caps for Comfort, Sport or 
Travel. Derbies, Silk and Opera Hats for 
Dress. The best only from the Worlds Best 
Hatters.
OTTO OETTING m %
Seventh & Smithfield. Fifth & Wylie. " T
v ' *\*\*V*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*S*\*\*^f\*VI.Vr\*\
