File Hn.f7eCoc/
 e <T nr I ii n
VOL. I., No. 10 PITTSBURG, PA., WEDNESDAY, JAN. 9, 1907 PRICE FIVE CENTS
MISS WEST ARRIVES. TECH LOSES TO YALE. TECH MAKES BEST SHOWING.
Began Work at M. M. C. S. on Mon- Carnegie Team Individually Better Secure Largest Number of Mentions
, ... .. .. r-, of Any School in the Country indayWell Fitted for the Work. Than the Elis. 3the Last Beaux Arts Society
Competition.
Miss Clara Linforth West, recently _0n Wednesday evening, Jan. 3, our -------------------
appointed Professor in the Department men went up against the strong Yale Returns have just been received
of The Home-Making Arts at the Mar- team> which team had a series of four from the Society of Beaux Arts Argaret Morrison Carnegie School for games scheduled in this city. .The ice chitects on the results of the drawWomen, has arrived, and began her was rather rough, which fact made ingg eubmitted by the students of the 
work with a lecture to the young ladies good passing and team work rather Carnegie Technical Schools, Departon Monday of this week. difficult, but spectators were treated ment of Architecture, for the judgeMiss West comes to the school es- to as fast a line of hockey as has menj- Gf the Society, 
pecially well prepared, for after hav- been seen in the Garden among the T^e geaux Arts Society has estabing resided and studied in Europe for school teams for some time. Our j^ed a course of study for architecabout twenty years with occasional men had improved their team work teetnral draughtsmen, modeled on the 
lecture tours in this country, she has wonderfully since the game with Troy system adopted by the Ecole des 
been able to secure that breadth of Tech, and had great hopes of win- |3eaux Arts. The course is divided 
mind and knowledge of the women, ning, or at least of holding the score twQ ciasses;
that so well adapts her for the work down very low. Class BInto which any sex may
she has taken up. She has. a fine per- Tlte first half opened with Reisfar, enter without examination,
sonality and impresses one immedi- Charles and Mason up in Yale terri- class AWhich the student reaches
ately as a woman of brilliant intellect, tory, and they held the puck around after having received certain awards
and we have no hesitation in saying tliat end keeping Lang, the Yale goal- in Class B.
that she will become popular with her keeper, busy for the rest of the half. The students are allotted nine
students. Only two or three times in this half hours in which they are at liberty to
In an interview as to what consti- did Yale succeed in getting a shot at study conditions of the problem and 
tuted the Home-Making Arts, Miss Techs goal, and in one of these at the end of that time are required 
West said: The Home-Making Arts chances the puck struck Dowling in to hand in to the person in charge
are those that tend toward the com- the chest and glanced into the net. a small sketch of their solution, taking 
fort, economy and happiness of the It was purely a luck goal and Goal- away a copy of the sketch with them, 
home. keeper Donehoo can not be blamed They then have about two months to
The fact that primarily woman is for not stopping it. Our boys were work up their sketches in Plan and
the restorer, preserver and sustainer fairly well winded by the time the Order problems, and one month in
of life, she should know the profession bell sounded for the end of the hair. Archaeology problems, and at the exof house-keeping. House-keeping in its The second half opened just as the piration of these periods the drawings 
broadest meaning, namely, the fur- first and wa?> a neat article of fast must be delivered for exhibition and 
nishing, beautifying and sanitation of hockey throughout. Dolbcare sue- judgment. The drawings are shown 
the home. The value of foods and ceeded in landing another one for Yale for a week and the jury criticises and 
their combinations; the management on a long shot, which was so fast that makes its awards.
of the income and its proper disburse- Donehoo did not see it go in. During the year there are given out
ment with the view toward economy; Had it not been for the excellent five problems in Plan for Class A, and 
(<Continued on Page j) (Continued on Page 4) * {Continued on page j)

---------------------------------------------------

2THE TARTAN
Hotel Schenley
Estimates
Given
for
School
and 
Club 
Dinners.
MI SI WETAR V .
 OAKLAND
Meat Market
CHOICE HOME DRESSED 
Meats & Poultry 
CHLO YKMBEN NGI
Both Phones.
Bell Phone 1939 Highland
egNGAanN o rKAnG.
Hatters and Furnishers
kt-t imdd gvmdum. EI EI
OPEN EVENINGS.
142 Park-BOTH PHONE3-142 Schenley
Scarborough & Klauss,
HARDWARE and HOUSE 
FURNISHING GOODS..
Mixed Paints, Glass, Cement, Sewer Pipe 
Furnaces, Tin Eooflng and Job Work promptly done
Improved Midget'Gras Furnaces 
CHLl YAYGe grEayEI
TECH WINS FIRST GAME OF THE 
SEASON.
During the holiday vacation Capt. 
Charles got his candidates out to prac
tice, and picked the Tech 1907 Hockey 
Tea 11. He deserves great credit for 
the impartial way in which the team 
was made up, and for the speed and 
team work shown by our men with 
so little practice. The team is com
posed of some new members, together 
with the stars of last year. Reisfar, 
Charles, Hammer and Mason, all last 
year men, and Adams, Dowling and 
Donehoo, the new members. Our 
friend Engstrom is missed at goal, but 
Donehoo will undoubtedly show up as 
well after he has become used to 
playing before a crowd of people.
On Saturday evening, Dec. 30, the 
Rensselaer Tech team of Troy, fresh 
from a victory over W. U. P., came on 
the ice at the Gardens expecting to 
make easy fruit of our men. Sup
porters of both teams were out in 
force, but the Tech men had a little 
the best of the noise-producing end of 
the game, due to their superior train
ing in that line of activity.
The first half of the game passed 
without either side scoring, due to the 
excellent defensive work of the Troy 
seven. Both goal-keepers were kept 
busy stopping an occasional stray 
shot, but Kenney, of i'roy, appeared 
to have the majority of the stops. The 
Tech forwards succeeded in .keeping 
the puck well up into Troy territory, 
but the luck was bad and no score 
resulted.
With the opening of the second half 
our men had their opponents measured. 
Shortly after the opening of play, 
Charles brought the puck down the 
side of the rink and passed out to 
Reisfar, who, in a rather difficult shot, 
landed the puck in Troy's net, and 
they played for the defense after
wards. The game was a little rowdy, 
and our men were not the lesser of
fenders in this respect. This kind of 
hockey is not what good people pay 
to see, and if it is not discontinued 
something serious may happen to our 
team. Capt. Charles is doing his best 
to prevent it, and he has partially 
succeeded. Keep it up, Chuck.
Hell Phone 292 J Schenley
M. H. JONES
Maker of
GENTLEMENS FINE
GARMENTS
Latest Styles. Prices Extremely Low 
121 OAKLAND AVE.
.. . SHIRTS ...
cs bf,mh
to give every young man one of ours to 
wear. Our Shirt Sale makes it easy.
McCANDLESS & GORDON CO.
33.0 :Dia.2=o.C33.a. St.
ALL TEXT BOOKS USED IN 
CARNEGIE TECHNICAL SCHOOLS
SUPPLIED BY
R. S. Davis & Co. 
441 WOOD STREET
Drawing Instruments, G Squares, 
Triangles, &c.
Trinvi-c- 1P & A. 2281-X1 KLEPilONIiS . j r a   T tt' .3I Bell 2957 J Highland 
TECH SPECIALTIES AT
THE HOLMES COMPANY 
BOOKMEN, STATIONERS, ENGRAVERS,
6016 PENN AVE., E. E., PITTSBURGH.
The line-up: 
TECH1.TROY0.
Donehoo..............Goal ........Kenney
Dowling...............Point . .. .Benjamann
Adams.............Cover Point.. Hammaun
Reisfar.Center . .. Stevenson
Charles...................Rover .............Fleeger
Mason....... Right Wing..............Breed
Hammer...........Left Wing...........Mueller
GoalReisfar. RefereeSchooley.
Time20-minute halves.
THE MAN.
Give me the man who can hold on 
when others let go; who pushes ahead 
when others turn back; who stiffens 
up when others weaken; who advances 
when others retreat; who knows no 
such word as cant or give up, and I will show you a man who will win 
in the end, no matter what obstacles 
confront him.O. iS. Marden.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
2pEjaMSisj^iiEEMai^as0^ajaaa!aaiaraiM'?a^iBia?!2^ia,ciia^ri'aB|s!i'3'd'r[!i![aiais[eigisiB!2Ei3itasisiai3iajaiBiaMEisiaisj5iiiegrE Ky F BgaV gRRKyaGx p P c
E More than two thousand Oakland people have their accounts here and receive every accommodation consistent with safe banking,
1 0^2CI_,^2iTrD S-^T7-TJSTC5-S ^-nsrp 1BTTST CO.
0 Capital, - $200,000.00 Surplus, - $1^6,700.00
g) 2 PER CENT. CHECKING ACCOUNTS.-----4 PER CENT. ON SAVINGS ACCOUNTS.g|!gfg?g^[r[Jrjg,~g:'gfg[gig[g[g[g[g!g^fgrg^ig^m[grgfg[g[grgrB[ggugigjg|gi^igjgigj^jgigigigjgjgjg;gjg]gjg[gjgj^,gjgjgjg)gJgjg'[g1agfgfgig^fgfg;g|g;gfg^rg{g[Qi.
TECH MAKES BEST SHOWING.
Atwood Pharmacy
J. T. McFADDEN, Prop. 
Cor. Forbes Ave. & Atwood St.
Bell 9080 Schenley 
P. & A, 166 Park
LIBEBTT
ISG CD.
301 CBAIO- ST.
Hockey and Gymnasium Shoes
Graeser & Crowleys
Iroquois Block
Open till 
9.00 P. M.
. . . 3612 
Forbes Street
Prof. Crabtree began his class in 
Iron and Steel analysis last Monday 
night. There are sixteen students.
(Continued from page 1.) 
five in Plan and Order each for Class
B, five in esquiise-esquisses, or nine 
hour competitions rendered under of
ficial supervision for each class, and 
four in Archaeology for both classes 
together. There is also a class in 
modeling, a class drawing from cast 
an examination in general history, and 
competition for prizes in planning and 
decoration.
In the Class B Plan Problem, A 
Concert Hall, Tech made a most re
markable showing. There were fortytwo drawings submitted from all over 
the country, thirty-four mentions 
given, eight of which belonged to 
students of Carnegie Tech, C. J. Pressler and A. T. Reber receiving first 
mention.
In the Class B Order Problem, a 
Tomb, one hundred and thirteen draw
ings were submitted representing dif
ferent Ateliers throughout the country, 
the West showing an especially strong 
representation, including Minneapolis, 
Kansas City, St. Louis, Seattle, and 
Port Worth. Eighty-four drawings 
were given mention, twenty-nine of 
these mentions belonging to Tech 
men. This is the largest number of 
mentions that have ever been given 
to the students of any Atelier in the country. H. E. Smith was given third 
place in this problem. We print here
with a list of the students who re
ceived mentions:
Class B Plan Problem.
A Concert HallFist mentions: C.
J. Pressler and A. J. Reber.Mentions: O. J. Robling, P. A. Liech, 
J. G. Stinson, M. L. Amberson, H. A. 
Buxton.
Class B Order Problem.
A TombThird place: H. E. .Smith, 
Mentions; D. E. Smith, J. England, R.
D. Street, H. S. Garrard, A. H. Wilkins, J. L. Decker, Percy Stevens, K. 
T. Goekler, A. R. Reuder, R. M. Ches
ter, V. Riganmont, Jr., W. Jones, Jr., 
Harry Edlis, Abram Bartow, Fred Haworth, E. J. Hergenroeder, E. J. Yagle, 
J. I. Goloston, R. L. Clyde, G. M. Sto
ner, M. Y. Cocken, W. H. Hudson, A.
G. Lamont, N. Harrison, Henry W. 
Peebles, L. A. McMullen, E. P. Bock, 
J. Heffron.
mi li ) il i i i il mi f m
3714 FORBES ST.OAKLAND. 
PITTSBURG.
NiERAg& rg&yEN
Winter Underwear
5 STYLES, 5 WEIGHTS at 
DL Rmdsh c ncfUmds.
'tILL g NyAG
Advance Styles Spring Shirts Arriving.
A NEW YEAR'S RESOLUTION 
To Patronize
Ube tLeCb Barber bop 
Cor. Craig and Forbes Sts.
eI YI rga RyMEa
MISS WEST ARRIVES.
(Continued from page 1.) 
the organization of the household along 
those lines that will produce the great
est sense of comfort, rest and happi
ness to its inmates.
When asked what she considered constituted the ideal woman, Miss 
West replied: I had never thought of any few elements which go to make 
up the ideal woman. I have referred 
to a multitude of factors in the course 
of daily talks with girls which seemed 
to me, they ought to do. I might men
tion, however, two attributes that ap
peal to me very stronglythey are, 
character and manners.
I am a firm believer in the high 
value of character. A woman may 
have studied much, and acquired much, 
the more the better, as a wider hori
zon gives her broader views of life. 
Her character, however, will deter
mine whether these accomplishments 
will be a benefit or not to those with 
whom she comes in contact.
A well formed, noble, character will 
have as its expression toward others, 
a kindly, gracious and considerate 
manner. This seems to me to be the proper attitude of woman.

---------------------------------------------------

4THE TARTAN
THE TARTAN
Official Student Organ Carnegie Technical School
F. E. Foster, OS.............Editor-in-Chief
R. H. Merrill, 08...........Associate Editor
R. K. Merrill, 08... .Associate Editor.................................Associate Editor
W. J. Hamilton, 08 (Night)....................................................Associate Editor
J. M. Sampson, 08. .Business Manager
H. P. Fowler, 08..Asst Business Mgr 
CORRESPONDENTS.
Ada Ramlach.............M. M. C. S. (Day)
Edith Clark...........M. M. C. S. (Night)
J. S. Charles. . .Applied Science (Day) A. F. Stamm. .Applied Science (Night)
Subscription Rates
Yearly..............................................$1.00
. Single Copy ------ 5 CentsFor Advertising Rates address the 
Business Manager, care Carnegie 
Technical School.
A NIGHT OF HEROISM.
The burning of the Chi Psi Frater
nity house at Cornell University at 
Ithaca, New York, last December, in
volved the loss of seven lives and the 
destruction of two hundred thousand 
dollars worth of property and one of 
the finest fraternity houses in the 
country. Of the men who were killed 
four were students at the University 
and three were firemen. The incident 
of the fire may be forgotten, but the 
story of the heroism of the young 
men, of whom there were twentyseven in the house, and of the fire
men who endeavored to rescue them, 
will enrich the annals f Cornell Uni
versity for all time. The students 
living in the house awoke to find 
themselves encircled by flame, but 
each man seems to have thought first 
of his roommate. One, Oliver Schmuck, 
rushed back into a raging furnace af
ter he had once reached safety and 
endeavored to rescue his roommate. 
Mr. Schmuck was brought out alive, 
but died soon after. Students from 
the other fraternity houses came at 
once to the rescue, penetrated the 
building with utter disregard of their 
own safety, and did everything within 
their power to rescue those who were 
in peril. In a country in which so 
many evil deeds attain such evil prom
inence every act of heroism is prec
ious. Such acts are innumerable, but 
they are rarely reported. An under
graduate disturbance at Cornell would 
have been telegraphed to all parts of 
the country and sarcastically com
mented upon in a great many edi
torial paragraphs. Should not a night 
of heroism' receive the same attention 
and command the same space?Out
look.
COMMENT.
Thursday morning of last wreek was 
largely given up to hand-shaking and 
greetings amongst students and fac
ulty, and it did not take a very keen 
observer to notice the fine feeling of 
school spirit that exists amongst the students.
We also noticed a good many greet
ings being exchanged between the 
students on each side of the barrier 
up the corridor.
What ha's become of the skating 
pond? Thought only the good died
young.
Now we all know about Hammers 
job in Youngstown.Its not every 
day such opportunities come ones 
way.
Something to think aboutA stu
dent honor system, a Junior Prome
nade, and a Dramatic ClubWonder 
who will be the angel to finance the 
latter scheme?
I wonder if it would really be out 
of order to say something concern
ing the weather?
CLASS ELECTIONS.
The Juniors.
A Class meeting was held last Mon
day afternoon for the purpose of elect
ing class officers for the remainder of 
the school year. The following men 
were nominated for President: Samp
son, Lucas, Steen; Vice President, 
Neudorfer, Coursin; Secretary, Wal
lace, Ulrich; Treasurer, Provost Thurs
ton; results of election: President, 
James M. Sampson; Vice President, 
John Coursin; Treasurer, Victor Thurs
ton; Secretary, Roy Wallace.
PLEBES.
A Class meeting for the election of 
class officers w'as held on Tuesday 
morning. The following men were 
nominated: President, Exline, Adams, 
Dowling, Urling; Vice President, Hud
son, Close, Grafton, Weidlein; Sec
retary, Watrous, Ketter, Charles, Da
vis, Challinor; Treasurer, Kann, Wal
lace, Gaston; results of election: 
President, Exline; Vice President. 
Hudson; Secretary, Watrous; Treas
urer, Gaston.
AN APPEAL.
We have been informed that the 
Mandolin Club is likely to go to pieces 
simply through lack of interest by 
the students. Anyone who can play 
a mandolin or guitar should be proud 
to come out to the rehearsals and try 
to keep alive the organization started 
last year. Having no Mandolin Club 
would seriously cripple the efforts of 
the Glee Club also, and we hope the 
members of the latter body will turn 
in and give their assistance towards 
getting more men to join the Mando
lin Club.
TECH LOSES TO YALE.
(Continued from page 1.) 
work of Lang, Yale would have been 
sadly beaten, as he stopped shots from 
Reisfar no less than five times that 
looked like sure goals. Reisfars play
ing was the kind that wins games. 
Single-handed he passed the Yale line, 
but was prevented from shooting by 
Langs brilliant work. The Yale team 
seemed to lack practice and a knowl
edge of the rules of the game. An 
opposite play was detected by Referee 
Schooley in almost every minute of 
play. Rough house was a little too 
much in evidence, Tech getting as 
many a? three men off the ice at once 
for this offense. The rooters were out 
in force and showed the best of feel
ing toward the opposing team, a spirit 
which is to be encouraged among 
rival schools. The referee fared badly 
at their hands, figuratively speaking, 
as some of his decisions did not meet 
the approval of all the Tech men 
present. Line-up:
YALE2. TECH0.
Lang .....................Goal ..............Donehoo
Dilworth...............Point ..............Dowling
Thayer.................C. Point..............Adams
Howard ...............Rover ..............Charles
Driscoll .............Center ..............Reisfar
DolbcareMcClintock. . . .R. Wing...............Mason
C. W. Williams.L. Wing...........Hammer
It is understood that there is a 
scheme on foot to erect a stadium and 
establish a public playground upon 
that property adjacent to the Carne
gie Art Galleries. There would be 
ample, space for the project, and if. it 
materializes it w'ould give our stu
dents an excellent place for their ath
letics.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON,
CUSTOM
FITTING
SHOES 
$5.00 - $4.00 - $3.50
PENN AND FRANKSTOWN AVES. 
East End.
a RESULT
-OFE4iEMG RESEARCH
The Connell-Hughes Water Purifier 
and Aerator The water from this 
apparatus has been proven absolutely 
pure, and is most palatable.
Partial list of installations:
Carnegie Technical Schools.
Union Trust Co.
Mellons National Bank.
The Liberty Restaurant.
McKennans Pharmacy, 431 Market st.
Friebing's Drug Store, 1500 Lincoln 
avenue.
Porters Drug Store, N. Highland ave
nue.
Walkers Drug Store, Sewickley.
Hustons Confectionary Store, Bry
ant street.
Show Rooms, 509 Wood street.
PHYSICS DEPARTMENT.
There has been recently completed 
in the Physics Department a large 
"Vacuum Free-Fall machine. It is 
the only one of its kind in the U. S., 
being sixteen and one-half feet long 
and having in conjunction with it 
a high-speed chronograph registering 
to the ten-thousandth of a second. 
Prof. Gibbs is the designer and Mr. 
Graman the mechanician.
The Western Society of Engineers 
will hold their banquet at the Hotel 
Schenley on next Saturday night.
Mr. W. A. Lyell, 09, shot a bald 
eagle measuring 6 feet 3 inches, dur
ing the Christmas vacation. Lyell 
spent the holidays with Thomas at 
Savannah, Ga., and says he had a de
lightful time.
J. T. Milleisen, C. H. Kiefer and W. 
W. Williams resumed their work at 
school last Friday after a period of 
illness. We wrelcome you back, fel
lows.
NEW STUDENTS.
First year nightJ. P. Amaden, Da
vid Leff, James E. James, R. P. Rich
ard, Jr., L. E. Stear, C. H. Orton.
Second year nightJames L. Brown
lee.
The Margaret Morrison Carnegie 
School received last week  sample 
board showing the different stages 
during the manufacture of scissors.
FOR EXPERTS
Engineers, Architects, Draughts
men Experts or Students . . .
Should get acquainted with 
the resources of supply for 
all Drawing and Artists Ma
terials offered by this house
KURTZ, LANGBEIN & SWARTZ,
606 Wood St., 6th Ave.
OH! SEE HENRY,
For Your Photographs 
Work Unexcelled
O. C. HENRY
Studio, 321 Fifth Ave. - Pittsburg, Pa.
Special Discounts to Students
SAYINGS OF NAPOLEON.
Imagination rules the world.
Force without intelligence is noth
ing.
No mans loss is irreparable; for no 
man is indispensable.
They, should have knowledge, who 
seek to govern others.
Men are led by trifles.
It is but a step from the sublime to 
the ridiculous.
There are two ways of moving men 
interest and fear.
When a man is bent on public office 
he has already sold himself.
The only victory over love is found 
in flight.
Death overtakes the coward, but 
never the brave man until his time has 
come.
One Thing to Remember
FOR 1907
Buy Candy
AT
- HALLERS -
Iroquois Block 3618 Forbes Ave.
*t4*t**&?4*4*
?ttt
*
V??*
Kaerchers Drug Store
COR. FORBES AND CRAIG STREETS
Schenley 1456 and 9018-J303 Park

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
Fraternity Pins, Class Pins, Badges, Prize Cups, Fine Tools"^
HEEREN BROS. & CO. MOTACMG JEWELERS and 2ILVEM,---HEEREN BUILDING, PENN AYE. & 8TN ST.---
Sm cfm s1m Wcwmfh J s1m Rcfdm$,m Gm1I N1JJ5 i,dhI
THE SLIDE RULEWITH EXERCISES FOR BEGINNERS.
CUBES AND CUBE ROOTS.
multiplying by the number itself.
Cubes are found by squaring and then 
This is shown by the diagram of Fig. 11.
Afind a3
Bover a Cset 1Dover a
Fig. 11. Cubes of Numbers.
The reader should verify this by trying some number, say 2, and 
thus see that the correct result 8 is obtained.
Cube roots are found by reversing the above process. The steps are 
shown by the diagram of Fig. 12. The slide is moved until the given 
number a and the end of C scale, are both over the same number. This 
is easly done by trial.
Aunder a (either end)1
Bfind x
Cunder 1
1find x (  3Va )1D(Log. Ch.  3n(3m 4- 1)(3m JL 2)
Fig. 12. Cube Roots of Numbers.
Any number may have three different cube roots, depending on the posi
tion of the decimal point. These may be determined by inspection, or 
by this rule:
If the logarithmic characteristic is a multiple of 3, the result is found 
on the left hand third of the D scale; if a multiple of 3, plus 1, the 
result lies on the middle third of the D scale; if a multiple of 3, plus 2, 
the result lies on the right third of the D scale.
For example 3V 1500 (log. ch.  3) the result is on the left hand of D
scale, and is 11.45. But for 3V 15000 (log. ch.  4) the result lies on
the middle third of D scale, and is 24.7.
When any expression contains cubes or cube roots as factors, it is 
best to deal with these terms first, and then perform the remaining steps. 
For example, 24.8 X 3/736  81.8.
The diagram for this problem is
A 1 under 36
B I find1
Cunder 1under 248
D|fnd xfind 81.8
(0
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
23.6
1-5 = 3-^75 
72 X 4-9^>3 =
2 -93 _ 
i .07 
12-4 X 7 64a _ 
2 9 X 6-b3 
76 X 121
8800
6.07
/76 X 1.21V _ _V 46 3 /46-3
2Q.1? y 4.65a 
3^9
82
= 2180
(7)
(8)
(9)
(10)
(11)
(12)
f/ 2 = I .26 
20 = 2.72
f/ 200 == 5.85
1.92 X if 6750 = 36.3 
27.6
197 3= 4-75
2Q.I X 46 5
3893 27
BELLEFI ELD PRESBYTERIAN 
CHURCH,
Fifth and Bellefield Avenues.
Rev. Daniel Russell, D.D=, Pastor.
Sunday Services:
9.45 a. m.Young Mens Bible Class, 
conducted by W. H. Stevenson.
11.00 a. m.Preaching8.0Q p. m. 
Students of Carnegie Technical School 
welcome at all services.
10 to 20 PER CENT OFF
Drawing Instruments, Triangles, 
Scales, Slide Rules, T Squares 
and Architects Supplies.
Koh-I-Noor Pencils, Erasers, Thumb Tacks.
E.B.Connell, D.J.Spence,
AGENTS FOR
Kurts, Langbein & Schwartz.
DONATIONS RECENTLY RECEIVED.
Chemical Department.
Here the cube root of 36 is found first, and the quotient multiplied by 24.8, all requiring only one setting of the slide.
VOL.I,NL ,o1
Notes cn Exercise 10. (4) Divide 7.64 by 6.8 first, using C, D scales,
then cube quotient and use remaining factors on the A, B scales. (5) Per
form the operations within the parenthesis first, using C, D scales, then cube 
the result. (8) Log. ch. equals 1: hence find result on middle third of D 
scale. (10) Extract the cube root first, then multiply by 1.92. (11) Divide
1 by 197.3 on A, B scales, find cubs root of the result and multiply by 27.6.
The time required for solving this exercise on the slide rule is 11 minutes.
Complete collection pigments from 
Toch Bros. Paint Works, New York 
City. Collection of synthetic dyestuffs from Cassella Color Co.; large 
collection synthetic dye-stuffs from 
Meister, Lucius and Brunning, H. A. 
Metz, American agent, New York 
City; collection of samples of Crude 
Petroleum, W. Va. Field, H. R. Boughner, Sistersville, W. Va.; samples of 
Guayals Rubber Plant and specimens 
of Rubber, together with articles made 
from the rubber. D. F. Fox, Chief 
Chemist Diamond Rubber Co., Akron, 
Ohio.
Electrical Department.
A large sample board from the 
Electric Storage Battery Co., Phila
delphia, showing parts of their Cloride 
Accumulator, Exide Battery.
Machine Shop.
Three Warner Cutmeters to indicate 
cutting speeds. Presented by the 
Warner Instrument Co.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN7
HOME 
of the 
2THEARNstimRHaN 
POLO 
LEAGUE.
TRACTION RINK
ROLLER
Skating. 
WHERE THE COLLEGE BOYS GO 
G1,fs03Jufs1 cd9 imdd gvmdumI 
YAaENG EZyAiiET MAaV Aa GeE NGgGE
All Car Lines
POLO GAMES
EVKRY
MONDAY
AND
FRIDAY
EVENINGS.
EIMER & EMEND
205=311 Third Avenue, New York
Manufacturers and Importers of
Chemicals, Chemical Apparatus,
PHYSICAL APPARATUS, 
SCIENTIFIC INSTRUMENTS.
Everything Needed in the Laboratory.
SINES AND COSINES. The preceding articles have described the use of the front scales, called A, B, C, D, for convenience of reference. On the 
back of the slide are three additional scales which are brought into sight byturning the slide over and inserting it bottom face up. The upper scale,
marked S, gives the sines of angles. It is used by making the ends coincide wdth the A scale, after which the sine is found on the A scale opposite the 
angle in degrees on the S scale. To verify this look for the angle 30 and find its sine 0.5.
For angles between 6 .90 (right hand side) sine is from 0.1 to 1.0
 35' G (left hand side)    0.01 to 0.1
For angles less than 35 the sine of 1 can be divided proportionately to 
give the sine of such small angles, care being taken to locate the correct position of the decimal point.
The cosine can be found by looking up the sine of the complementary 
angle, since cos xsin (90-x). The foregoing directions can be compactly stated by the diagram of Fig. 13.
Set 1 
to end^find sin Piover angle.find cos  over angle (90o-A')
Fig. 13. SINES AND COSINES.
The cosecant is the reciprocal of the sine, and the secant is the recipro
cal of the cosine. Hence these functions are found as indicated by Fig. 14.
find sec xUnder 1 (right or center) | find cosec * A | Under 1
set angle x j over 1 S | Set angle (90-*) | over ]
Fig. 14, SECANTS AND COSECANTS.
Expressions involving any of these functions as factors can also be 
Worked simply on the slide rule. As an illustration take the familiar trigo
nometric problem of a triangle having one side and two angles given.
Let a = 1.36, A = 57.2, B = 48.1. Required b.
By the law of sines a : b  sin A : sin B, whence by inserting numbers
and solving for b,
b -
13.6 sin 48.Ie
sin 57.2C
12.05
Fig. 15. Solution of Problem.
(Concluded in a subsequent issue.)
VISITORS.
The diagram for solving this problem is given in Fig. 15. The steps are 
exactly like a similar expression in ordinary numbers; in fact the trigonom
etric functions of an angle can be used just as easily as any other numbers.
Mr. Strouthers, a literary man of 
some note visited the schools last 
Saturday and spoke very favorably 
of the institution.
Mr. H. A. Darenny, a member of the 
Pittsburg String Quartette and an or
ganizer of musical clubs in this dis
trict, visited the school last week. 
The resurrected orchestra is endeav
oring to secure the services of Mr. 
Davenny to instruct them, and it is 
the feeling that with his ability he 
could make this branch of our mu
sical organization a success.
NEW BOOKS.
Recollections of a Campaign Man
ager, with introduction by Tom 
Platt. Hudson. Price 23c.
Self-Evident Propositions, an ex
haustive work; by Mr. Bassett. 
Dont let the price stand in the way.
When Rosenfeld Calls.
A Iunder 136find 1205 1
s 1set 57.2over 48.1
A Play in One Act.time 2 a. m. 
one Sunday morning. The maid to
Miss---------Shall I put on an extra
plate for breakfast?
Phillips has discovered fifty-seven 
ways of smashing up a benzine car
riage. 
Remember, Beek, you must not 
smoke, oror. If you ever hope to 
get in right.
A History of China, in words of 
one syllable; 23 volumes, by Hung 
Hwangte Knight. Price nominal.
Walks and Talks in ,Soho, by Mr. 
Vogner. Price three dimes.
A monograph on the value o ice 
water and other strong drinks. By 
William Waldo Wallace. Free to all.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
p''3.iSjSlS3JSSJ3lf3!31nliS3JS.E!JSjSfi5S-ejIS!iiiiDii[!i'Pi'Di'i!'2!J[HiDiiEiiiSiS!!ile]JS!B(3i3iiif3!Sldr3lfliSrfiiB'cl,'Di!Pi^ei .ci^ diiH'aiciiciicliDifSEiciro
H 2JAGENT ... |
1 NEWARK SKATE 1 
| 6227 PENN AVENUE g ------------------------------ g
1 6222 FRANKSTOWN AVENUE J THE BEST MADE g
@ fHJ
HOCKEY SHOES
NONE BETTER 
WE FIT TH M RIGHTGeo. H. Stoebeneil
5ISEiSJS21Sl[i!J3ji!J5IBJ5]&'E!SJS5.Cie1.ciidJSlf?l5iSiSJSSiii  ! :d!SiBIS!S^r3I3IBSf3i3''SE!SfSO.S3E!SiB3lc3l3Jc|j3JBJ3J3]D3lp]li?J3jSJBJ0
NEWS ITEMS.THE DAY GIRLS RECEPTION.
The night girls were given a reception, 
By those who seek knowledge by day ; 
Of fun, there were barrels, and then 
some,
And dancing, of course, held full 
sway.
Oh it was a gay happy party,- 
Enjoy it, each maid did, most hearty; 
But although twas to be a feminine 
affair,
We noticed some of the other sex 
there.
To see those girls fishing, my it was 
fun!
Why one actually fished out a skele
ton!
The old witch to us our fortunes told, 
Now we are dreaming of wealth un
told.
Then up the stairs we all did go,
To indulge in cakes and delicious co
coa;
When filled, all were merry and full 
of joy,
A girl told the story: When I Was 
a Boy.
Then as each merry group homeward 
went,
They to their joyous feelings gave 
vent,
And yelled with voices full of glee, 
Hurrah for the Tech School Three 
Times Three!
A Night-Owl.
January 2, 1907.
DONT FORGET.
On Feb. 1st the Glee Club will hold 
its concert at the Carnegie Music Hall. 
The club at this writing is in a high 
state of perfection, and when the war
blers perform you can expect some
thing well worth your.time and money. 
The boys have practiced hard to ac
quit themselves with credit, so let 
every Tech man be present with ,as 
friends.
Upon next Tuesday night dele
gates to the Athletic Association from 
the School of Apprentices and Jour
neymen and Applied Design will be 
elected.
PERSONALS.
There is nothing breaks so many 
friendships as a difference of opinion 
as to what constitutes\wit.
Old Mother Hokie 
To the oven, quite pokie,
Went for a shirt to dress,
But when she got there 
The oven was bare,
And so was poor HokieI guess.
Heard in Chemical Lecture Room 
when Sampson began to talk:
ClassThrow him out, throw 
him out.
SampsonWhat the blankety blank 
is the matter with you blankety blank 
fellows?
Why dont you sport your Cleveland 
style, Mr. Hower.
The Chemics took a bath last 
Thursday.
Huntley, lost in the corridorSay, 
Professor, do you know where the 
chemicals are this period?
ProfessorI do not, I havent smell
ed any bad ordors around here re
cently.
In Class Meeting.
ColmeryI nominate Mr. Rahall 
for Marshall.
Kohler-Mr. President, I object, 
we have one constable now in Mr. 
Westbrook.
Mr. Edwin Booth Irving Barret Sivitz, gives his celebrated monologue 
each day in Chemistry entitled, Why 
eat strawberries, when onions are so 
cheap?
ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION.
Upon Jan. 14th a meeting of the 
Athletic Association will be held for 
the purpose of electing ofScers.
Elmer Schumacher was lately 
elected president of the Pioneer Tech 
Club, to succeed Dr. T. M. Taylor, re
signed.
F. I. Gaston, of the. Plebe Class, 
and a resident of Tacoma, Wash., 
started the New Year correctly by 
being taken into the Pioneers.
Tingley said the train slowed up 
enough to give him a chance to see 
Huntingdonand Wessy grew quite 
enthusiastic.
PATRONIZE
OUR
ADVERTISERS
Mathieu Electric o.>
Electrical Construction, Repair Work 
and Supplies of Every Description 
6010 CENTER AVENUE
E. E., PITTSBURG, PA.
Bell Phone Highland 172
GOOD THINGS TO EA.T
AT THE PURE FOOD STORES OF
Geo. K. Stevenson M Co.
Sixth Avenue Highland and Center
Down Town V0NP VT,S
