My ! Dont Those 
S. A. T. C. Uniforms 
Fit Well
VOL. XIII. NO. 1.(Iljr 0 arlan
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLO. W, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA
Basket Bali 
Tech vs. Allegheny Gym 
Friday Night, Jan. 31
JAN. 29, 1919
FOUR PLAYS RENDERED BY DRAMA STUDENTS
Thompsons Stage Settings 
Deserve Credit
AUDIENCE IS APPRECIATIVE
The theater of the Department of 
Dramatic Arts was reopened last 
Thursday evening, January 23, with 
a program of four one-act plays, in
troduced hy a prologue, Pierrot 
Home from the Wars, written for 
the occasion by Thomas Wood Stev
ens. Pierrot, emerging from the 
struggle, confesses that the war has 
changed him, as it has changed 
everyoneA lse; it has convinced him 
more than ever of the necessity of 
being Pierrot, the witty, the eager, 
the wistful. Are you for settling 
down? inquires Pierrette (most prop
erly played by Miss Beck.) No, Im 
for raising the curtain again! ex 
claims Pierot; and the audience, 
remembering the months when the 
voice of Pierrot was nowhere to be 
lieard, echoed the sentiment. Howard 
Claney, who took the part, has a 
voice remarkable for clarity, a jewel 
of a voice. One hopes that Claney 
is aware of the fact, and resolute tu 
give his jewel the polishing it needs.
'The Parting, is melodrama by 
Kenneth Goodman so well written as 
to be comparatively fool-proof in th 
actingthough fortunately it didn't 
have to be. James S. Church was 
well fiast as Max, the German spy 
who releases carrier pigeons to von 
Moltke during the siege of Paris. 
The absence of feeling in Churchs 
voice, a lack the audience is willing 
to forgive because of its resonance, 
was his good fortune here; and his 
rather impersonal conduct on the 
stage seemed much in keeping with 
the detached and wicked Max. Alma 
Lotz, as Gabrielle, his French mis
tress, who replaces Maxs trusty pig
eons with pigeons not so trusty, 
and thus foils him, went through her 
lines m a cooi anci Collective way 
that showed intelligent study of the 
part. She avoided both the theatric
al and the sentimental, but her read
ing greatly lacked variety. The dif
ficult piece of business at the end, 
when Gabrielle places the candles by 
the body of the dead Max, Miss Lotz 
(Continued on Page Four.)
PRES. HAMERSCHLAG SAVES U. S. SOME MONEY
According to statistics furnished 
by the Packing Service Branch of the 
Domestic Operations Division at 
Washington, D. C., $51,678,000 was 
saved the United States Government 
during the war, by the substituting 
of baling for casing or boxing in the 
shipment of clothing and equipage for 
the use of the American Expedition
ary Force. Over 1,000,000 bales 
were made and the saving included 
such items as material, labor in 
packing, handling, tare weight and 
cargo space.
The credit for such an enormous 
item of gain for the Government is 
due to the associates of Dr. A. A. 
Hamerschlag, President of the Car
negie Institute of Technology and 
representatives of the Army Corps 
who worked with them in Washing
ton while he wTas in charge of the 
Bureau of Industrial Research in the 
office of Major General George W. 
Goethals. Floor space, cost of ware
housing, cost of handling, cost of 
loading and most vital of allcargo 
space were the prime factors that in
fluenced their investigation. Th$ 
idea to bale instead of box produced 
profitable results which can be read
ily seen in the following instance:
The savings effected on one ship
ment of 5,153 bales of clothing to 
France were: difference in cost of 
material on each bale, $1.94, differ
ence in labor cost in each bale, .58, 
net saving of material used, 488,390 
pounds. The saving in handling cost 
of each bale was $.07; saving in 
cargo space by each bale, 8.18 cu. ft. 
If these goods had been cased, the 
cost of shipping would have been 
$374,358; whereas, by baling, the 
cost was $123,672, resulting in money 
saving in cargo space of $250,686 or 
$4S.65 on each bale.
Another striking feature of this 
system is the fact that the reclama
tion value of the lumber used in cas
ing and boxing is extremely small, 
whereas, in the case of the burlap 
used in bailing, it is very high. This 
is evident from the fact that the' 
burlap can be cut the right size to 
make sand bags, and that 4,000,000 
could be made from the quantity of 
burlap used in covering the 1,000,000 
balps shinbed to France.
SCIENCE SCHOOL SENATE HOLDS FIRST MEETING
The Student Senate or the Science 
School held its first meeting on Jan
uary 16. The following representa
tives of their respective classes were 
present:
SeniorsMiller, Nuttal, Elerton,
Mills, Armor.
JuniorsFair, Stone, Giffen, Kanier.
SophomoresSchmidt, Bloom, McClean.
FreshmenCreighton.
The following officers were elected 
for the ensuing year:
PresidentMiller.
Vice PresidentStone.
SecretaryBloom.
TreasurerSchmidt.
A resolution was passed by the 
body petitioning the faculty to re
store to the student body, the Sci
ence Club room. The radio equip
ment has been moved out of the 
room and the faculty is considering 
a plan to make this room a library 
of Current Technical Literature.
The question of freshmen regula
tions was brought up and discussed 
at length. It was decided that Fresh
men should not wear black bands on 
the sleeves of their blouses, but that 
all first year men must buy the regu
lation Plebe hat. These hats must 
be worn by their owners whenever 
on the campus in civilian clothes. 
Men wearing uniforms must purchase 
the hats and wear them whenever 
they appear on the campus in civil
ian clot'hes, both now and when they 
discard their uniforms.
Freshmen must wear hats at ail 
times when on the school grounds, 
and must take their hats off when
ever they enter any building con
nected with the school.
A committee consisting of Mills, 
chairman; Fair, Bloom and Creighton 
was appointed to control Freshmen 
regulations.
Nuttal was appointed chairman of 
the Bulletin Board Committee.
COLONEL DAY REJOINS CARNEGIE FACULTY
Are you going t o miss Techs 
Biggest Event
&
Watch Th is Space
tAirra My!DyDo ntTh se ST. ACT
The first books to be issued by 
the new Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology Press are two unique vol
umes recently prepared by Prof. 
I-Ianiel Long of the Design School 
faculty. These volumes are entitled 
"Carnegie Tech War Verses, and 
consist of little poems and extracts 
of letters written by Tech men who 
served in France during the war. 
These books should be interesting 
and worthy of reading by every Tech 
man.
SCIENCE SENIORS GET ANSWER TO PETITION
The Science Senior Class has re
ceived an answer to its petition to 
President Hamersclag asking that 
military drill .be abandoned at Tech 
this year. The presidents reply 
stated that the question bad not 
been decided upon yet, but that when 
a decision \vas made the petition 
would receive-.due consideration.
TEA BREAKS UP EXAM. FOR M. M. C. S. JUNIORS
Examination time was very pleas
antly broken up for the Junior Class 
of M. M. C. C. by the tea given for 
them by Miss Emily Sibley, instructor 
of the Household Economics Depart
ment. All the girls agreed that such 
good ice Cream and cake would be 
welcome at any time, but were partic
ularly enjoyable after a psychology 
examination and before other exam
inations equally ponderous.
Assisting Miss Sibley, wiiom every
one agreed was a most gracious host
ess, were Miss Weber and Miss 
Helene Pope, head of the Household 
Economics Department, who has just 
returned to Margaret Morrison after 
a long illness.
DR. THOMAS S. BAKE { TECHS NEWSECRETARY
An educator of international repu
tation, Dr. Thomas Stockliam Baker, 
for ten years Director of the Tome 
Institute, Port Deposit, Md., has just 
been appointed as Secretary of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology. He 
will take up his duties on March 1, 
1919.
From the time Dr. Baker grad
uated from Johns Hopkins University 
in 1891 Including his comprehensive 
studies abroad, to his resignation as 
Director of the Tome Institute, his 
time and energy have been dovotod 
to educational work; to the croating 
of new ideas in training young minds 
and to the search for better methods 
to make better citizens. As director 
of Tome Institute, Dr. Baker has had 
the responsibilities of administering 
an important educational Institution 
for a long period of years. This un
usually wide experience in education
al fields equips him to give to the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology the 
fruits of his labors as an educator, 
writer and literary critic. His ap
pointment to the Administrative p' 
is considered as one of the most not
able additions to the personnel of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology.
Dr. Baker received tho degree of
B. A. from Johns 1-Iopklns University 
in 1891 and a Ph. D. D. from the 
same Institution in 1895. He was a 
Fellow and Locturer in the modern 
languages in that university from 
1893-1908. From 1908 to the present 
time, he was I-Iead Master and Direc
tor of the Tome Institute. His liter
ary works consist of his musical 
critiques in tho Baltimore Sun from 
1895-1905; and Modern Language 
Notes in Harper's Weekly, Now York 
Times, etc.
M IISICAL CLUBS HOLD ! iEASONS FIRST TRY-OUT
* All Tartan news must be in ? 
b hereafter by Friday, 4:30 p. m. 4*
* and no later than Saturday noon. * *****************
BENEFIT CARD PARTY TO BE HELD FEB. 1
All M. M. C. S. students and their 
friends, as well as all the M. M. C. 
S. Alumni, are invited to attend the 
benefit card party, given on Satur
day, February 1, from 2 to 5 p. m. 
in the Margaret Morrison Recreation 
Hall. Bridge and five hundred are to 
be the attractions. Th price of ad
mission is 25 entSj and the pro
ceeds are to be contributed toward a 
scholarship given each year by M. M. 
C. S. ta some wise and fortunate 
member of the Senior Class.
The Carnegie Musical Clubs held 
eir first, tryouts for the sesson of 
19 on Sunday afternoon. The try 
ts were not so large as other 
ars. However this fact is not dis 
uraging. The quality is much bot which offsets the quantity of 
evious years.
Six insignia men roported for prac* with the Glee Club. There are
11 remaining some insignia men 
>0 did not report. These men i 
peeled to report this week. Added 
the insignia men are twenty-odd 
I'ults, all of whom are very promng. In fact Mr. Gaul, the director 
the Glee Club, Is very well 
.used with tho turnout. Mr. Gaul 
j'O succeeds Mr. La Mana as direc'j\ is well known to the music lovf Pittsburgh. lie predicts a 
od season and believes that a repentative Tech Gleo Club will be 
i result.
[Phe Mandolin Club mado just an 
d n start as tho Gloe Club. There 
* six insignia men out !'<,! prac Also thoro are insignia men' 
school who have not yet reported, 
another week, however, all will 
ijort. The club Is again conducted 
Mr. Scalzo. For the past ten 
irs Mr. Scalzo has put out a club 
u cannot be equalled. IIo too sees 
glit prospects.
Both clubs shall practiso next Suny, February 2, at 2:30 p. m. Tho 
*0 Club In Room 104, Industry,
1 the Mandolin Club in tho Union.
Insignia men' are urged to bo 
sent, as thoro Is a mooting schodd for them immediately after 'praco.
Thore Is no doubt but that much 
id material Is yoL to bo had. If 
i can sing or play any string Inument, the clubs.will gladly glvo 
i a tryout. Come around to praco on Sunday and get your tryout, 
e Gleo Club needs first tenors, 
mo out and try.
After three years of a most active 
and eventful career abroad, Colonel 
Frank P. Day, former Professor ol 
English at the Margaret Morrison 
Carnegie School, has returned to 
Carnegie Tech to resume his duties 
under his new appointment as Act
ing Dean of the Division of Academic 
Studies.
Colonel, Day addressed the Science 
Assembly on Wednesday, January 22, 
and by. Ills short account of the ac
tivities of his battalion in France he 
aroused so much interest among tho 
students, that lie will bo obliged to 
continue his lecture at next Wednes
days assembly. He spoke especially 
of raids, large and small, tholr ob
ject, how they are prepared, and how 
executed. His talk abounded with 
interesting specific details and in 
spite of his modesty, It was very evi
dent that ho Is a man who has seen
I much and done more.
| Colonel Days peace-time career 
Is a noteworthy one. He graduated 
from Mt. Allison College of New 
Brunswick in 1903. In 1908 ho re
ceived the B. A. degroo and in 1912 
the M. A. degree from Oxford Uni
versity, where lu> also won tho 
Rhodes Scholarship. Ho was an as
sistant instructor of English at Berlin 
University, an Instructor of English 
at Bristol Unlvorslty, and a Profes
sor of English at. the University of 
Now Brunswick. Ho came to Carne
gie in September of 1912, and was 
Professor of English at tho Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie School till 1915.
In May, 1915, Colonel Day loft, for 
Nova Scotia. Ho had boon a second 
lieutenant in the Yeomanry; and at 
tho time he left for Nova, Scotia ho 
was a major In tho 28th Now Bruns
wick Dragoons. Colonel Day, how 
over, was not satisfied with tho lim
ited amount of activity that, tho cav
alry was getting and ho was, conse
quently transferred to the infantry. 
Ho spent, all summer qualifying as 
(Continued on v-ago Four.)
JUNIORS WILL HOLD ANNUAL MIAL EVENT
Science Members of Commit
tee Named
DREIFUS IS THE CHAIRMAN
P. & D. SOPH. GIRLS HOLD STUDIO PARTY
The Sophomore Girls of the Paint
ing and Decorating department, De
sign School, held a studio party Fri
day night. Dinner was served in the 
large studio wrhich was attractively 
decorated for the occasion. After 
dinner the party attended the play 
in the Design School theater and 
then went to the home of Miss E. 
Brahm where dancing was enjoyed 
until a late hour.
GIIAPRICA CAMPAIGN OF EASTER CARDS
' The Graphia held its first meeting 
for the year of 1918-19 on Monday, 
ja, luary 27.
I t was decided at this meeting that 
the1 Graphia would run an Easter 
ca, d campaign. Similar plans have 
be( m carried out in previous years 
an, I have proven very successful. The 
pn jceeds of this Easter card sale 
Wj]jl be used by the students of the 
Department of Printing to make a 
t0L-M' of inspection through .the West. 
Se-yeral very pleasing designs have 
al,.!eady been selected, samples of 
wh
PO!
dei
sia
ich will be gotten out as soon as 
!sible. It is hoped that the stil
us will respond with the enthusm of former years.
Two new members, were admitted 
the society at this meeting, 
ey are R. A. Brayer and C. Z. 
iz of the Printing Department.
 HAZE FROSH FOR OFFENSES
The first actual Freshman hazing 
was enacted by the Sophomore 
Architects. Several "Frosh were 
tried, and one punishment for not 
carrying matches as per Plebe Regu 
lations.
The guilty one was ceremoniously 
dumped in the sink. Perkins led the 
attacking party.
SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA PRACTICING REGULARLY
The Music Department of Design 
School Is again at full strength and 
studies have been resumed as in for
mer Limes. The Symphony Orchestra 
Is practicing and the date of the first 
recital is set for about February 10. 
Mr. OBrien assures us that the same 
quality of talent is present ibis y.a.r 
as in other years, and that prospects 
are bright for good musical treats.
FULCRUM CLUB REORGANIZED BY ___
v. meeting of Lhe Commercial Engliring students was held. In the Com. 
rcial Club room January 22. The 
pose of the meeting was to reorllze the old Fulcrum Club under the 
v name of the Commercial Club of 
I. T.
Juergons was elected temporary 
tirman and L, E. Hawkins tempoy secretary, pending the d aftlng 
i ratification of a constitution. The 
husia^m snown at the meeting and 
Interesting programs being ariged should make the new organiion a success,
MARGARET JUNIOR PROM FED. 20
Under tlio supervision of S. Melon 
Young, Ilio social chairman of tlio 
Junior Class, plans for tho annual 
Junior Prom aro being made. Tho 
Pi'oiji tills year Th to be hold al. tho 
Rlttonliouso Hotel on February 20. 
Dancing will bo from nino to two 
and supper will bo nerved nt twelve. 
No plans have boon made yot for 
music or favors.
GRADS RETURNING FROM SERVIffi VjSJT SCHOOL
Guy TCelcey, Mechanical, *1*1, Is In 
town, staying at the I). U. House 
and is looking up old friends.
Frank Rownd, Design, Ex., 15, has 
also been around. Frank is now, or 
has been, a lieutenant, and says Its 
worse than being football manager.
Ernest (Shorty) Ilolzworth, Ex.,- 
17, has been in town. Ho is even 
larger than when he played football, 
standing six-five and weighing about 
two-ten.
Pick I-Iines, Science Civil, 16, Is 
back from France and will be in town 
next week. Pick will be remember
ed as basket ball captain and a "lady 
chaser. He has been a lieutenant 
in the engineers and has seen service 
at the front.
COMING, ANNUAL DESIGN MYSTERIOMGHT
On St. Valentines day, February 14. 
the P. and D. students will hold their 
annual Mysterious Night. Although 
the P. and D.s are very secretive, es
pecially those who are in charge of 
the affair, a good time is promised with 
big eats, clever stunts, novelties, surprises and thrills, Just one grand, 
Bohemian spree.
At a meeting of the Science Junior 
Class the president, M. A. Fair, an
nounced the following as his selec
tion for the Junior Prom" Commit
tee:
E. II. Pa fon ha eh
F. B. Dreifus
G. C. Stone
J. F. Giffen
Roy Melter.
The committee had a mooting at 
which Dreifus was elected chairman. 
Although Juniors are scare and up
per class men too, the Prom will 
bo carried out. in full swing. Two 
members of the committee are yet to 
como from Science School and then 
the committee will complete final arrangomonts for a "rip-roaring" good 
time. Strictly Science this year. Lots 
go Juniors.
SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON TENDERED HOME PARTY
Last, Friday evening Zola Lambda 
Epsilon tendered an at. homo party 
to Sigma Alpha lQpsllou. In addi
tion to the Pitt. Chapter a fair repre
sentation from othor schools was 
present. One feature of tho evening 
was Doan TarbollH Interesting talk 
on the future of tho schools. Wvorytlilng contributed toward an Interest
ing and enjoyable ovoning.
GRADUATE OF IIESIGN WINS WARREN PRIZE
Wr. Frank McOaughoy, Jr., agradiiii/.ii eUfa of l.9;l i, Sdidal-'AfApplied Design, O. I. T.. ban tho hon
or of being the winner of the first; 
prize In tho Warren Prize Competi
tion held by the Boaux Arts Institute 
of Design In Now York City.
Mac returned to the University 
of Illinois at Urhana where ho hi in
structor In Architecture, tho last of 
November, having spent several 
months In Uncle Sam's Army, being 
stationed first at Camp Meade, Md., 
and then at Camp Lee, Virginia, In 
the Officers Training School,
TRIANGLE CLUD DANCE FIRST REAL SUCCESS
The Trlanglo Club dance In the 
Union, Saturday night, was the first 
dance of the school year. About 
seventy couples attended, some from 
each school; tho dancing startod at 
nine.
Riehls orchestra furnished the 
music, playing the latest hits and 
several old favorites. Two spot
light" dances, with appropriate music 
added novelty to the affair. Dancing 
was over at twelve.
TECH LOSES TO PITT IN WELL-PLAYED GAME
The basket ball team wont down 
before tho Pitt five at. tho Trees 
Gymnasium last Friday night, the 
score being 40 to 29, The game was 
fast and Pitt never showed a mo
ment when she could walk out of the 
Tech reach. The team showed up 
well throughout the game and pulled 
together except for a few wide pass
es and long shots, Abrams, Lynn 
and G/etzler starred for Techgett'ng the baskets for the Plaid.
SOPHS TO TREAT PLEBES AT INDUSTRY SMOKER
Under the direction of the Dare
devil, dashing, Windy Lynn, Presi
dent of the Industry Middles, and his 
unfailing staff, there has been ar
ranged a smoker for the Plebes of 
the school.
EnLertainment and refreshments 
will be had, si) the one who stays 
away, is going to miss something be
sides some good smokes. The fac
ulty and upper classmen are earnest
ly requested to attend and enjoy one 
of the schools treats of the season 
Be at the Gym at eight oclock 
sharp, Thursday night.
INDUSTRY CLUBS BLOG. CONSTRUCTION
At the last meeting of the Assem
bly, on January 22, 1919, Mr, Oakley 
announced that the old members of 
the Building Construction Club had 
gotten together and again things wore 
In full swing. The Upper Classmen 
had not forgotten the feeds," smok
ers and trips of previous years and 
they were looking forward to those 
of the near future.
Plebes were advised to attend fill 
moetlngs and were told that they 
might enjoy all tho liberties of tho 
Upper Classmen witli the exception 
of voting.TECH VS. ALLEGHENY, FRIDAY NIGHT
17711722
12722776
00846235

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOPAG ETWPODWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 29. 1919
The paravane, or '*I\ V.," as'the British seamen call It, is the British 
navys cunning device 1.0 protect yar ships from enemy mines. It Is a tor
pedo-shaped construction with tlat fins at Its head and a peculiar rudder de
signed to keep it at any desired de'th. A wire rope, by which It Is connected 
with the ship, catches up the morlng ropes of mines and causes them to 
travel to the nose of the paravaie, where a sharp saw severs them. The 
mines, thus set free, rise and are destroyed.
IS IN KIEL GANALBRITISH VESS
OLORS IN THE RHINE
Men of the Second Moroccar.l division of the French army celebrating 
their occupation of the town of Hjmique by dipping their colors in the Jlh'ne(Eiyr artan
Published p/rery week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of Technology.
Entered in the postoffi.ee of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
This year $1.00 5c the copy Canada, $1.25
Editor-in-Chief ................................................................................................LeRov K. Emerich
Phone Hazel 9422 .
EDITORIAL 
Managing Editor
F. E. Smith
Assistant Managing Editor 
School Editors
M. M. C. S................Margaret Sondheim
Design ..................................... G. L. Miller
Industries.................................I. R. RudisiLL
Science ...................................... A. C. May
Night ..................................... Julius Foster
Athletic Editor 
M. S. Gare 
Staff Photographer 
William M. Myler, Jr. I
M. M. C. S. Assistants
Other Assistants 
I. Sissman
BUSINESS 
Business Manager
A. W. Als worth 
Phone Hazel 9425
Assistant Business Manager
H. F. Scheetz, Jr. 
Advertising Manager 
W. F. Kelley 
Circulation Manager 
A. Atcliley
TARTAN OFFICE...........................................................................................Room 162, Design
Hours2:00 to 4:00 Wednesdays.
4.30 to 8:00 Thursdays.
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the Manag
ing Editor for the make up.
All business communications should be sent to the Business Manager. 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported 
at once.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the signature to be withheld if desired.
All news items ...ust be in the sluGent postoffice, Central Building, before 
noon on Saturdays.
OUR FIRST ISSUE
This issue is the result of our first attempt to get started. It 
may not be up to standard, but it is hoped that it will serve the pur
pose for the first time at least. What is needed is more men to help 
out with the work. This number was prepared principally by two 
men which cannot be done all the time. We are hoping- to have 
new recruits report as there is plenty of room for good men.
We would like to see a column or two of Fraternity news every 
week. This has been advocated before with little success. The Fra
ternities could easily appoint a representative who could write their 
news. It would take very little time each week and would be a benefit. 
Think it over and send in some news next week.
Then, too, there is the subject of the Dorms. A week or so ago 
Forbes Hall held a.dance and also Mellon Hall entertained in a like 
manner. Quite a few of us never know what the Dorms are doing, 
but yet 110 one thinks enough of it to hand in a little item of it. 
It need not be repeated about the time it takes to do the work. Dorms 
take notice and think it over.
Besides this there are positions on the staff. More representa
tives are needed in M. M. C. S. and Design as well as Industries. 
Anything from Managing Editor to Reporters are needed. Wont 
you think it over and if you have had experience or not and want to 
try outlet us know ?
Attention is called to the fact that the faculty voted last year 
to change the name  Plebe to Freshman after July 1, 1918. That 
has not yet been changed.
REGISTRATION
The 1919 dajr registration compares very favorably with that of 
last year, even though a large number of our undergraduates are 
still engaged in the government service. A large number of S. A. 
T. C. men who were stationed in our barracks during the fall months 
have remained with us and as a result there is an unusually large 
Freshman class.
The comparative day registration figures for the past two years 
are as follows:
1917-1918 ...................................................1532
1918-1919 ..................................................1282
- (Signed) ALAN BRIGHT,
Registrar.
In view of what has happened I think nobody is likely to question 
that at least the kaiser and Ludendorff and his crowd have been kicked 
out by the German people. The great problem today is not, Can the 
old guard recover itself ?* They are done. The great problem today is 
whether under that system of oppression and misrule the German people 
have been able to develop such strength of character or sugh resourceful 
leaders as will be able to bring them out of the slough in which they now 
find themselves. There are no great men in Germany today. There are 
no great political leaders. There are none in the great fields of industry 
and finance. They realize why.
One of the conservative papers said, What we need is a great man 
to set against George and Wilson. Vorwaerts, the socialist organ, said, 
Dont 3rou see why we havent any? These men were developed under 
democracy; but under our system of autocracy we havent allowed any 
man to develop.
Let us get sane. Get over this German bug oi thinking that some
how or other the Germans are superior. Morally they are greatly inferior, 
but people have thought that somehow intellectually-or in a>:gamzation 
they are better than the rest of the world.
We have shown them that we can smash ,the German military organi
zation, which we have smashed. There is an idea that the Germans can 
do us in business; that somehow this is race that we cannot compete 
with on normally fair terms. Put that out of your head. They are a 
patient, hard-working race; they will work fourteen hours a day where 
a Russian wont work four. They will plod faithfully. But they are 
dumb; they are stupid. They do not understand things. They do not 
get the psyehelogy of anybody else; and large part of their science and 
their supposed superior way of doing things is bluiF and fake. They have 
-done some good work, but no better work, and they are not doing better 
work in the field of economics than the English, the French and the 
Americar-s.
And in the field of business they have nothing on you. For the love 
oi Mike, dont be afraid of them! You can nut it over them every time.
NEW FACULTY APPOINTMENTS
^0 Tartan having been previously issued for the current aca
demic year, a roster is given below of the new members of the 
faculty for 191JM919. The roster does not include a large number of 
special instructors engaged for war courses on short term contracts. 
DESIGN SCHOOL
llenry S. ITubbell ...................................................................Professor
of Painting, Acting Head of* Dept, of Painting and Decoration
Jean C. Moss..............................................Lecturer 011 Teaching Methods
Eugene F. Savage.........................Aoung Asst. Professor of Decoration
Dr. Matilda F. Savage..........Advisor of Women and Mcdical Advisor
Margaret Whitehead.............................> .. Lecturer o ^listoiw of Art
SCHOOL OF APPLIED INDUSTRIES
11. J. Miller.........Instructor in Mechanical and Arehiteutwral DrawingSCHOOL OF APPLIED SCIENCE
II. W. Oarrithers..................................Asst. Prof. Mechanical Drawing
11. C. Griffin.................................................................Assoc. Prof. Chemistry
G. F. Gundelfinger............................................Instructor in Mathematics.
K. S. Henning...........................................................Instructor Mooh. 1 Saigiv
Thomas O. MacKay....................................................Asst. Prof. of Physics.
Paul MeCorkle.............................................................Instructor in Bliysies.
W. E. Rice.........................................................Assistant and Storekeeper
William E. Strevig,.................................................Instructor in Chemistry
V. O. Ward..........................................Instructor, War Issues and English
Dr. Leonard Fox.............................................Professor, Political Seiont***
MARGARET MORRISON CARNEGIE SCHOOL
Jeanette II. Baldwin...........................Instructor in Secretarial Studi***
Ella Hazel Clark...................................................Instructor in Chemistry
Mary .1. R. Condon.........................Part-time Instructor in Social Work
Sherman Conrad.................................Part-time Lecturer in Social Work
Honora English...................................Instructor in Household Economics.
Frances M. Fay.............................................................Instructor in .History
Richard Hamer............................................................Asst. Prof. of Physics.
Julia P. Harrison.....................................................Instructor in Chomisl.ry
Myra E. Hills..........................................................Instructor in Psychology
Leonora lJoneckcr...............................Instructor in Secretarial Studies.
(.allic Hunter...........................................Asst, in Biological Laboratory
Louisa Knox...................................................................Instructor in French
Margaret M. Loo...............................................Asst, in Secretarial Studies.
Amy Leonard...........................................Instructor in Secretarial Studies
Mary I. Patton........................................Instructor in Physical Training
Margaret It. Sandels.........................Instructor in Household Economics
Sara M. Soliel...........................Part-time Lecturer in Commercial Law
Marion C. Webster...............................Instructor in Secretarial Studios
Gertrude M. White.......................................................Instructor in Biology
OFFICE STAFF
Mrs. C. W. Carlisle.............................Office Seorctary, Rceoiving Offtcj
Marie Freclotto..................................Assistant. Secretary to the President
Mrs. 11. Mr 1 'aii............................................................iviimeograpii upenfioi
Lenoro Reed ..................................................................... Assistant Cashie
May Sutherland .................................................................................... Olor]
Mildred E. Lawton..............................................Itoeorder, Design School
Anna Benseotcr...........................................................Recorder, M. M. ('. Si
Margaret A Rood......................................Assistant Recorder, Industries
Marjory Love,joy............................................Assistant Recorder, Science
Helen Davis...................Assistant to Director of lOduealional Research
Why the British Seaman has Boycotted 
the German for Seven Long Years
Br CAPT. EDWARD TUPPER. Sifton' Unio.
When the war broke out and tho authorities took 8,000 German 
sailors oil British ships in British ports wo insisted that they should not 
be treated as prisoners or as enemies. Theso men had been our shipmate. 
They were members of our union, many of them of five, ten, fifteen years' 
standing. Well, tho authorities turned them over to us with ill grace,, 
We wont surety for thorn and made them tho guests of our union. 
housed them, clothed them, fed them bolter than ever before in their lives. 
I w>as 011 Lord Kitcheners recruiting committee, and wherever I went to 
speak I was challenged as a pro-German.
Then came the sinking of tho Lusitania. These Germans broke forth 
in cheers. Then they began to sirig Die Wacht am Rhein, Deutschland 
ueber Alles, andwell', they kept the celebration up all night. Ther<| 
could not have been a wilder celebration in Berlin.
Well, sir, we were awake at last. The next morning we went to tho 
authorities and said, .Take these creatures off our hands. So we wero 
rid of their care and company.
All this time we were of the opinion that by treating these German 
Bailors as men and brothers we would assure our own poor fellows decent 
' treatment in German prisons. We did not. We soon learned that our 
men were being treated worse than any white man would treat a dog. 
The full story of their treatment can never be told in a newspaper.
But even then we were not bitter. We began to plumb it when reports 
of U-boat outrages began to come in. All the world knows how the crew 
of the Belgian Prince were lined up on the deck of a U-boat and left to 
drown when she submerged. It does not know all the horrible stories of 
men shelled in open boats, of men and women and children, too, for that 
matter, cast adrift without food or oars or water. We ourselves do not 
know of all. We know of the orders sink and leave no trace, and we 
know full well how thoroughly those orders were carried out.
About this time we decided on the boycott. Two years was the term 
we fixed, and we gave solemn warning that for every additional outrage 
vve wotdd add a month. Seven years is the total nowthe price wo 
demand for the 17,000 of our members we know the Gormans murdered.
Tho sea is a hard life, yet those who follow it love it. It is a clean 
life and a free life, (t is a life for men and not for dogs, and ho far at* 
lies in tho British seamens power, it will not be polluted by Gormans.
The boycott is not of our chooaing. Would to God we never had to 
consider, much less appiy n. But it was forced on us when, against our 
wills, we were forced to realizo that, come what may, go what may, a Huu 
is only a Hun.
Zoological Notes.
Another thing we cant understnnd 
is how a woman can be a perfect cat 
and yet be scared to death of a mouse. 
Cincinnati Enquirer.
A Jests prosperity lies In the ear 
Of him that hears It, never in the 
tongue 
Of him that makes it.
Shakespearr
MYSTERIOUS P. V. USED BY BRITISH
Members of the crew of a li;-1 lit cruiser of the British licet sent to the 
Kiel canal, taking their first view n jr the famous base of the enemy fleet. Tho 
British vessels went to Kif-I to suplorviso tin work of carrying out tho armis
tice terms regarding Ilio Cernan  var vessels.
FRENCH PRISONEFjiS OF WAR RETURNING
A remarkable photograph sho 
they pass over a bridge on the Litt 
man revolutionary party are seen ;
wing French prisoners returning home a* 
le Rhine at Strassburg. Troops of the Ger'iiarding the bridge.

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 29, 1919THE TAI-PAGE THREE
FRATERNITY LEAGUE BASKETBALL STARTED
Among the activities resumed at 
Tech this year comes Interfraternity 
basket ball. The league was started 
last week when representatives from 
all our fraternities and one dormi
tory held a meeting in the gym. At 
the second meeting Dickinson Sigm 
Nu was elected chairman and Gau 
Woodlawn Club was elected secre
tary.
The following fraternities were rep
resented: Sigma Nu, Theta Xi. Del
ta Upsilon, Phi Epsilon Pi. Wood
lawn Club, Zeta Lambda Epsilon, 
Tau Gamma Phi, East Dormitory. A 
code of regulations has been formed 
and passed. The first game was Tues
day, Jnuary 28, 1918, between Theta 
Xi and Woodlawn Club. Members of 
the varsity are to act as referees. The 
schedule:
Tuesday, January 28. 
Woodlawn Club vs Theta Xi.
Zeta Lambda Epsilon vs. Epsilon Pi.
Thursday, January 30.
Tau Gamma Phi vs. East > Dorm. 
Delta Upsilon vs. Sigma Nu.
Tuesday, February 4.
Zeta Lambda Epsilon vs. East Dorm. 
Theta Xi vs. Delta Upsilon.
Thursday, February 6. 
Woodlawn vs. Sigma Nu.
Phi Epsilon Pi vs. Tau Gamma Phi.
Tuesday, February 11.
Theta Xi vs. Phi Epsilon Pi. 
Woodlawn Club vs. Zeta Lambda 
Epsilon.
Thursday, February 13.
Tau Gamma Phi vs. Delta Upsilon. 
East Dorm, vs Sigma Nu.
Tuesday, February 18.
Zeta -Lambda Epsilon vs. Tau Gamma 
Phi.
Phi Epsilon Pi vs. East Dorm.
Thursday, February 20.
Delta Upsilon vs. Woodlawn Club. 
Sigma Nu vs. Theta Xi.
.Tuesday, February 25. 
Woodlawn Club vs. Phi Epsilon Pi. 
Theta Xi vs. Zeta Lambda Epsilon.
Thursday, February 27.
Delta Upsilon vs. East Dorm. 
Sigma Nu vs. Tau Gamma Phi.
Tuesday, March 4.
Zeta Lambda Epsilon vs. Delta Upsilonr
Theta Xi vs. East Dorm.
Thursday, March 6.
Sigma Nu vs. Phi Epsilon Pi. 
Woodlawn Club vs. Tau G'amma Phi.
Tuesday, March 11.
Theta Xi vs. Tau Gamma Phi. 
Woodlawn Club vs. East Dorm.
Thursday, March 13.
Zeta Lambda Epsilon vs. Sigma Nu. 
Delta Upsilon vs. Phi Epsilon Pi.
Ml THE TEAM; COME OUT TO GAMES
What's the matter this season with 
t'he rooters? Where are they? Theres 
a game Saturday night in the gym 
and its the duty of every Tech root
er to be there and support the team. 
This is all old news to most every
one, so let it hit that familiar spot; 
and to the new onesfreshmen and 
othersget out to the games! You 
want to see Tech win. Theres no 
better way to have a winning team 
than to have a live bunch of sii| 
porters. Lets- see you at the game 
Saturday nite." The lineup for Sat
urday probably will be:
Allegheny. Tech.
-Volk ..........................P................... Abrams
Kerr .........................F............................ Lynn
Meredith .................C.................: Gretzler
Baldwin ...................G........................ Carey
Kofford ...................G....................... Foxan
PRES. HAMERSCHLAG ON NATIONAL COMMITTEE
President A. A. Hamerschlag was 
recently appointed by Hon. Wm. C. 
Redfield, Secretary of Commerce, to 
serve on a committee of five to rep
resent the Department of Congress in 
connection with the four allied na
tions and arrange for an internationa1 
cotton conference.
In another page of this issue there 
is an article in which it will be seen 
what our president accomplished for 
the Government in saving an enorm
ous sum through the shipment of cot
ton.
The body is to be formed to dis
cuss the proposition of international 
interest in the cotton trade and the 
existing conditions.
UNUSUAL APPOINTMENT 
TO SCIENCE FACULTY
One of the most notable appoint
ments to our faculty was that of Dr. 
Leonard Fox, Associate Professor of 
Politics in Princeton University. Dr. 
Fox comes to the School of Applied 
Science as Professor of Political 
Science and is a noteworthy addi
tion.
He graduated from the University 
of Wisconsin in 1911 and later took 
the degree of Doctor of Philosophy 
at the University of Pennsylvania. 
His experience includes teaching at 
the Universities of Colorado and 
Princeton.
This is an unusual appointment to 
our faculty and we are sure the 
School of Applied Science will profit by it.
fminiriiinniiiiininniiniinnniiiiniit^
j MARYS STRATEGY jl
E By CHRISTINE HAYES. j =
"i 11 wTmTmrniTniiiTm^^(Copyright, lUllt, by the McClure Newspaper Syndicate.)
"Congratulate me!" chanted Mary S. 
from the doorway. And the family 
paused in its various occupations, a 
warm interest in each other's a flairs 
being characteristic of it.
"You don't mean that Jncks aunt 
has come to her senses? demanded 
A Nine.
"No," .Mary replied cheerfully. "I 
simply mean that shes going to."
What! exclaimed the entire 
group.
Yes," said Mary, dropping into the 
morris chair and unfolding the news
paper she had been waving. Listen 
to this:
 'WANTEDCompanion. Must be 
ladylike and congenial. Musical edu
cation preferred. Agreeable speaking 
voice required. Apply Tuesday after 
three.
MISS LUCRETIA B., 25 ------
Road. 
"Interesting, admitted Tom; but I 
dont quite see the connection."
"Well, Mr. S., began Mary elabo
rately, I trust that you are familiar 
with the synopsisnamely, that Mr. 
Jack B., favorite nephew of the rich, 
but eccentric Miss Lucrfetln, is madly 
in love with ope Mary S., but perverse
ly refuses to marry her because she Is 
endowed with more worldly goods than 
he. Miss Lucretia might easily rem
edy this deplorable state of affairs, but 
she has taken an unaccountable dis
like to Mary S., whom she has never 
even seen, and vows to change her 
will if .Tack marries her. You are, 
I presume, acquainted with these 
facts?
You just bet I am, returned 
Tom, with a comical air of patience; 
"but what has the ad to (lo with it?
Simply that if Aunt Lucretia were 
to really know me, I just know shed 
love me, said Mary with mock com
placency. . "Furthermore, I think Id 
make her an admirable companion. 
And, she finished seriously, "Jack 
has told me so much about her that 
I know I really will love her, so it 
wont be toadying. And, anyway. It 
Isnt for the sake of the money. Its 
just that the assurance that he is 
heir to the filthy lucre will overcome 
Jacks scruples."
"Good girl! cried Tom admiringly. 
"Youll do it, all right."
Huh, thats just like you! Be 
perfectly lovely to her, after all tlio 
trouble she has caused you and Jack," 
Arline scolded.
"The truth is," replied Mary, "I think 
she worships .lacic anu is jeuioua at 
the thought of his marrying anyone. 
Of course, she laughed, "I can under
stand anyones being jealous of Jack 
and forgive it.
Im glad you feel that way, dear, 
said Mrs. S., "and I think perhaps your 
Idea Is a good oner Are you going to 
tell Jack now, or wait to see how 
things turn out?
"Well, Jack Is a dear, of course, hut 
hes rather a worrier. Guess ill wait. 
So long, folks. Im off to prepare for 
the siegeclothes, and music, etc.
And a few minutes later her clear 
soprano floate'd down from the sewing 
room.
Whereat the family smiled to Itself, 
for this was, inconsistently, the song 
of Marys merriest mood, rendered 
with a trill that belied the text.
On the appointed Tuesday, there 
were several applicants, but Mary, 
neatly gowned, and with her unmistak
able air of good breeding, was conspic
uous among them. Miss Lucretia se
cretly loved golden hair, too, and 
Marys hair was golden. She had al
ways liked clear blue eyes, and Marys 
eyes were clear and blue. Further
more, Marys musical talents were far 
above mediocrity, and her speaking 
voice, Miss Lucretia noted, was music 
in itself.
In short, the fastidious little old 
lady fell in *love with the girl at first 
sight, and in the months that followed 
she did not regret it. Mary became 
her confidant, and in her turn became 
so much attached to Miss Lucretia that 
she concluded one of her letters home 
with a humorous: "I cant bear that 
Mary S.
To Miss Lucretia she was Mary C., 
and Jacks letters were forwarded to 
her from home under that name.
My nephew Jack Is coming home 
on leave, Mary, announced Miss Lu
cretia over her knitting one morn
ing.
Mary already knew, but her heart 
skipped a heat at the thought of the 
surprise that' awaited him, for she had 
not been blind to the purpose of Miss 
Lucretias loud praises of her nephew, 
and knew that victory was assured.
The little old ladys sharp eyes noted 
Marys-. heightened color approvingly, 
and she congratulated herself as a 
matchmaker.
Jack may think he likes Mary S,. 
she purred Inwardly, "but just wait 
till he sees my Mary.
A few days later Mary came upon 
them suddenly In the garden. Jack hav
ing arrived without her knowledge. 
He sprang to his feet, his face laugh
able In Its astonishment.
"Mary ! WhywhyMary! he stam
mered, then as the truth dawned upon 
him. laughed till the tears stood In his 
eyes.
And It was Miss Lucretias turn to 
be astonished.
Solicitude.
"Charley, dear. exclaimed yonhg 
Mrs. Torkins. "It would have been n 
shame!
What would have been a shame?"
"To sink the German navy after the 
Germans had taken such wonderful 
are of It.5
ODDS AND ENDS
Dr. Walter Dill Scott, on leave ol 
absence to serve as chairman of the 
Committee on the Classification o! 
Personnel. General Staff, Army War 
College, has recently been commis 
sioned Colonel; Prof. Walter V. 
Bingham, on leave of absence to 
serve as Executive Secretary of the 
same committee, has been commis
sioned Lieutenant-Colonel.
Major F. F. McIntosh, Ordnance 
Corps, is on duty in Fi'ance.
Lieutenant Frank O. Amon, for 
metly instructor in Chemistry in tlu 
M. M. C. S., died of pneumonia in 
France the latter part of October.
Major Wm. P. Field, member of 
one of the examining boards for tli 
aviation service, is1 now stationed in 
Atlanta, Ga.
Prof. Horace R. Thayer has been 
elected first president of the newly 
authorized Authors Club of Pitts
burgh.
J. Howard McCulloch is a first lieu
tenant in the aviation service at 
Camp Chanute.
Mr. F. A. Eyman is stationed at 
Springfield, Mass, as head instructoi 
in charge of tloor work for the train 
ing of Y. M. C. A. athletic directors 
for war camp service
Post Senior Year for Science 
Freshmen in High Schools, as pro 
vided by the Institute, was described 
by Dr. Miner in a tecent issue of 
the Journal of Educational Psychol 
ogy.'
Miss Kate Gordon, on leave of ah 
sence from the Division of Applied 
Psychology, is with the California 
State Board of Control on the 
problem of the care of the deficient 
and delinquent children of the State. 
She is located in Los Angeles, but 
will return to Pittsburgh in January.
Professor J. C. Sproull resigned 
on November 27, his associate profes
sorship of Mechanical Engineering 
after nine years of service on the 
faculty, to become Engineer of Tests 
with the B. F. Goodrich Rubber Com
pany, Akron, Ohio.
Mr. Andrew S. Yount, formerly In 
structor in Chemistry of the Science 
faculty, now connected with the Du 
Pont de Nemours Powder Company, 
was married recently in Brooklyn to 
Miss Winifred Balcom.
Mrs. Adah Hopkins Aime is with 
the Fosdick Commission in charge of 
girls welfare work in New York,
Miss Mary Hanna is in charge of 
a canteen at Chateau Raux, France
Miss Victoria Freethy is in Y. M.
C. A. work in France.
Mr. Ira D. Garard is with the A,
E. F. in France.
Dr. Esther Blair has returned from 
Red Gross work in France where she 
was in charge of a group of clinic;- 
for the rural population just back of 
the Lorraine front., with headquarters 
at Nancy.
Mr. Henry S. Hubbell, head of the 
Department of Decoration, is holding 
an exhibition of portraits in Gallory 
I at the Carnegie Institute. The ex
hibition has aroused much -interest 
and has been very favorably com
mented upon by the critics.
Dean Bossange delivered, a lecture 
on the Art of the Eighteenth Cen
tury, at the Metropolitan Museum. 
New York, recently. He has been 
asked to give a short series of simi
lar lectures next year.
Messrs. Sternfeld and Hitchens are 
expected this week to return frpir 
Camp Zachary Taylor. They were 
commissioned as Second Lieutenants 
at Plattsburg and have been at 
Camp Taylor since they left here the 
middle of September.
Four of the Design School students 
have died in the service. Richard 
Mansfield II. and Francis Hogan of 
the Drama Department; Lewis IT. 
Boss and It. W. Spring of the Arch
itectural Department. t
Two new instructors have come to 
the Social Service Department of M. 
M. C. S. These are Miss Christine 
McBride, a graduate of the Univer
sity of Missouri, and Miss Agnes 
Byrnes, from Washington, D. C. 
These new faculty members will hold 
classes beginning with the winter 
quarter.
Companionship Needed.
Genius advances new 'jvventio.ns, be
stows new poems. nuiKes music* find in 
a thousand ways makes possible hu
man uplift. Yet it is possible for 
the man of genius to be a pest in the 
world. Of what avail is ii to add to 
the worlds happiness with one hand 
and take from it with the other? To
days needs are met by men who 
think and feel and tin. No one trail 
must rule to the destruction of rlie 
well-rounded man. The inner moni
tor must sympathize with the worlds 
weaknesses it tries to strengthen. Not 
biting criticism hut cheerful encourage
ment helps the man who has tried and. 
failed. Not the exalted scion who from 
high-sei:ted chariot tells how to carry 
tl'.e load, but the man of sympathy who 
dares lend a hand to help with the bur
den brings relief lo tired shoulders 
and weary feet. We are all tired oV 
contrasting genius, but we crave the 
companionship thats big enough to 
dare to help us and still leave uw 
something to look up to.Grit.
Be Specific.
For business purposes, for social 
purposes, for any purposes In life, a 
ride that should admit of no excep
tions is: "Be specific In everything 
you say. Dont take it for granted 
that vague, general statements will 
properly convey your meaning. Gen
eral statements, please remember, 
eave wide room for Inference, and 
here is always the liability that a 
vrong inference will be drawn.
COME ON UP AND HELP 
ME MOVE
The Real Estate Man said: Second Story Morry, you 
liave outgrown this floor spaceyou must have larger 
quarters.
He rented me the ENTIRE SECOND FLOOR at the 
corner of Fifth Avenue and Wood Street. Entrance 446 
Wood Street.
SO IM GOING
To Move February 1st
Now I must carry that BIG SIGN of mine over and I wont be able to 
tote all SUITS AND OVERCOATS, too.
So just to show my appreciation for your past patronageto CELE
BRATE my removal and to lighten my load,
1 f]q/ IM CLIPPING OFF 1 A ofJ-/0 My Present Low Prices A" /O
HURRY-HELP ME MOVE
CM UP
Save $7.00 to $15.00 
Open Monday, Wednesday and Saturday Nights.
SECOND STORY 
MORRY
241 FIFTH AVENUE
Listen to Pussy 
Now Wont He Me ow!
i
I___________
r,|r. PAULS CATHEDRAL 
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.
Masses: G:30. 8:00, 11:00, 10:00 and
00 A. M. on Sundays and Holy
FIRST CLASS CLOTHIER
CHURCHES
Vespers on Sundays at 7:30 P. M. 
Pew fi8 Middle Aisle for Tech Stu
nts.
SCENSION EPISCOPAL CHURCH 
Isworth Avenue and Neville Street 
DR. WYATT BROWN, Rector. 
REV. E. JEFFERY JENNINGS, 
Assistant.
^Sunday Services, I I A. M. and 7:45
M.Bible Class, 10.00 A. M.
Tech students cordially welcomed.
DESIGN SCHOOL STUDIO CLUB HOLDS MEETING
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
iiady and Northumberland Avenues
sjCrraded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. 
Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M. and 
:oo p. NS
Young People's Service, 7:00 P. M. 
Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages. 
A. cordial welcome to all.
ROBERT B. MILLER, D. D., 
Pastor.
At a recent mooting of the Juniors 
and Seniors of tlio Painting and Dec
orating Department, the Design School 
Studio Club was formed. The ohjoct 
of the club Is to stimulate Interest In 
art, and to provide a medium through 
which tlio P. and I), students may become bettor acquainted with each 
other.
An executive committee, consisting 
of the Misses Elolso McMahon, Mario 
Hlghberger, Jane Davy and Marian 
Darrali was elected. Mr. Hubble, tlio 
head of the department, and Dr. Sav
age are members ex-olTlcio. Meetings 
will be held regularly and Interest* I 
mg programs are being arranged.
BELLEFIELD SHOE 
REPAIRING
FORDE8 STREET 
Oppoolto Cnrnoulo Library. 
High claim work dono while you 
wnlt.
I. SCHWARTZ 
LOW PRICES TO TECH 
8TUDENTS 
Give tin a trial.
Grace Church
(Reformed)
AYARD and DITHRIDGE STREETS 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister 
SERVICES:
Sunday School9:45 A. M.
Morning Worship11 A. M. 
Christian Endeavor7 P. M. 
Popular Evening Services at 7:45. 
Sermons for Head and Heart. 
Hearty Welcome for All.
 BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN X 
; CHURCH
; Bellefield and Fifth Avenues X 
' Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D., *j* 
Minister. !
Preaching Services 11 and 8. 
]. Sunday school at 10.
Christian Endeavor at 7.
We want the Tech boys to at- *t* 
,l; tend our services and learn to .j.
 know us as the congregation of y 
' Friendly People. A hearty *:* 
.( welcome awaits you.
Persias Favorite Beverage.
The great beverage In Persia Is sheret, which Is plentifully supplied and 
f which there are many varieties
0 rom the bowl of water with a squeeze 
f f lemon to the clear concentrated Juice 
<f any sort of fruit to which water is 
c dded to dilute it. Only among tlio 
a ich and fashionable are glasses used; 
rn all other cases sherbet Is served In 
' hina bowls and drunk from deep
* vooden spoons carved In pearwood.
M. M. C. S. STUDENTS GLAD DR. BLAIR IS BACK
____\______
General rejoicing in M. M. C. S, is 
sure to attend the announcement that 
Dr. Esther Blair, who spent most 
of last year helping the soldiers and 
civilians in France, and who has 
been away a considerable part of this 
school year with the flu, returned 
to M. M. C. S. on Monday, January 
27, and will keep her office hours 
as scheduled, from 12:30 to 1:30 
daily.
Dr. Blair is very much interested 
in the monthly contributions made by 
the students toward the adoption of 
some of the little French war 
orphans whom she knew and helped 
while in France, and those negli
gent ones who have not yet paid 
the very modest monthly dues exact
ed, had better hurry up and do so 
before Dr. Blairs return.
WEBER EXPRESS & STORAGE CO.
Bell Phone 239 Schonlcy.
Moving, Packing and Storing 
of Furniture and Pianos. Gen
eral Hauling Baggage to and 
from Depots.
4616-18-20 HENRY STREET 
PITTSBURGH
Relics of Aztecan Era.
Near Phoenix, within the Sail: river 
valley, are to he found seven com
munal settlement of the same preAztecan era, with central buildings 
that were far larger than that at Cufla 
Grande, a writer In the Christian 
Science Monitor states. To the north
ward and norlhenst every river valley 
retains evidence of the passage of at 
least a portion of these peoples, for 
some reason leaving their cities and 
their irrigated fields on the plains and 
seeking the mountains and the upper 
plateaus.
Marriage Custom.
For women to fake their husbands 
names on the marriage day was a Ro
man custom. For example, we have 
Octavla of Cicero, meaning Octavla, 
wife of Cicero. Now we omit the of."
| BARNES
WALL PAPER 
Wholesale and Retail 
Books furnished Paperhangers 
and Dealers.
Picture Framing a Specialty 
3618 FIFTH AVENUE 
At Atwood
Get It At The
LAND 5 8 10
iiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiniiiniiiiiiiiiDiiiiniuiiiiiiiiiiininnniniiiniiiiiiinimiiiiiiiiirpi
W. O. Breckon
STUDIOS
Forbes and Atwood Sts.
Phones 1603160 Schenley 
8PECIAL PRICES TO TECH
8TUDENT8
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIinumili
Mens Handkerchiefs
LID 510
Venetian Gondolas.
It was not until I lie end of the sev
enteenth century I hat the Venetian 
gondola assumed Its present simplic
ity and sombernciis of color. A vain 
attempt has been made to Introduce 
it in other countries, but it has ap
parently resisted all efforts at ac
climatization.

---------------------------------------------------

CIGARETTE
PAGE FOUR
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 29. 1919
trip they had ample room to move 
about and to observe the sky an. 'I the 
landscape. On Thanksgiving Daj r last 
a half dozen guests of an Arne rican 
aircraft factory had their turkej din, ner served in a huge aeroplane i ibove 
i the clouds.
It is true that owing to the co st of 
the aeroplanes and the aero mi Hors, 
their upkeep and the number of skill
ed men required to fly and mat ntain 
them, all aerial travel is expei islve. 
The two-seater training mac Miles 
equipped with one motor cost ft ye to 
seven thousand dollars, and the huge 
bimotored bombing machines ayei 'aged 
forty to sixty thousand dollars. This 
price was due to the necessity foi  hur. 
ried construction. For everything that 
went into the building of the aero 
motor and the machine itself and also 
for the labor the very highest price 
had to be paid. Tools, machinery . fac
tories, fields, hangars, and a thoi tsand 
other things had to be purchased  and 
a great body of skilled workmen had 
to be trained before aircraft pould 
be turned out in quantity.
Now all this skill and billior s of 
money have been invested in th e industi y so that the plants in this < -oun. 
try are ready to manufacture nearly 
two hundred a day. With this nm-leus 
to start a peace construction! pro
gramme the price of even the bijigest 
machines must soon shrink to thi&t of 
a high-priced automobile or pr ivate 
yacht. Plenty of sporting machines 
with a small wing spread and a twocylinder motor that will sell for five 
hundred dollats are now being made; 
and since these machines can ave rage 
twenty-two miles on a gallon of i?asoline the expense of maintaining one 
of these will not be out of the m eans 
if hundreds of the youne fliers who 
are now returning from flying oi ,,le 
West Front. Moreover, since I here 
will be no maintenance of roads, rails, 
live wires, and so on, such as t here 
is in the railroad and electric road 
industries, the cost of maintenance 
will be infinitely smaller, so that 
aerial travel may become cheaper than 
any other known to man.
Perhaps the best indication of -kvhat 
we may expect of the aeroplane as a 
commercial carrier is embodied ir. the 
present plans of the manufacturers 
of aircraft. Using the past histoiy of 
the heavier-than-air machines , per
formances and their own experience 
and the experience of tens of f-housands of fliers under all imaginable 
circumstances and conditions p-s a 
basis, they are building various types 
of aircraft. More than a scon* of 
American and British firms lmv<> al
ready built and are putting upon the 
market large numbers of sports mod
els. These machines are single and 
double sealers after the lype ok the 
famous Baby Nieuports. Spads and 
British Sopwitb Pups. They ha (re a 
wing spread of anywhere from s< venteen to thirty feet. The fuselage Meas
ures between ten and twenty foot. 
Some are equipped with one small mo
tor generating from twenty horse-pow
er up to forty horse-power. Mont of 
these motors are upright, like the .ones 
used on motorcycles. The whole ma
chine will not weigh more than five 
hundred pounds, and these modelsi are 
able to fly at eighty, to one humjlred 
miles an hour and mako an avel-age 
of twenty miles or more on a gallon 
of gas. The price of these will de
pend on the demand, but most Man
ufacturers believe they will sell for 
five hundred to a thousand dollars. 
These machines are so small that I hey 
can be landed on any road or field. 
Besides, the small amount of sjiace 
they occupy will make it posslblj- to 
house them inexpensively and hiey 
can be used for any kind of cross
country flying.
The second type of the sports m)del 
has a wing spread of twenty-six to 
thirty-eight feet. These wings ca , be 
folded back so that the aeroplane lean 
be housed in a hangar ten by ihlirty 
feet, with ample room for the ovl-ner 
to work indoors on the machine. The 
fuselage is proportionately larger fi.han 
that on the smaller machine, i'hia 
aeroplane is equipped with a f|ourcylinder upright motor or an air-Cooled rotary motor of the Gnome s .yie 
with nihe. or eleven cylinders, gen
erating up to ninety horse-po^ver. 
Some also have two small twenty 
horse-power engines geared to the one 
propeller so they can be throttled 
down, or in case one stalls the other 
can take the fliers to their-aerodn me 
without being forced to land. Sc.me 
models have two motors on the sn: aller machines. These aircraft will sell 
for about the price of a medium- ost 
automobile.
Naturally no manufacturing imjlustry can exist without a potential niarket. Aircraft manufacturers are sure 
the majority of the twenty thousand 
fliers and hundred thousand aero me
chanics who have learned their tr ide 
in the great war will want to fly either 
machines of their own or of somefr jdy 
else or of some trans-aerial compa ny. 
The aeronautical engineers have, 
therefore, designed the sports type for 
the young fellows who wish to r. ice 
in the air, travel from country to ,vn 
to country town, from lake to rh er, 
or to commute from country to c[ty. 
Since these machines fly faster tiian 
the fastest bird or the fleetest anlrfoal 
they will afford great sport for g- li
ners. Indeed, the machines have al
ready been used with such disastrous 
effects upon the bird that many hunt
ers say it Is not good sportsmans; hip 
to hunt from them.
Mellon
National
Bank
PITTSBURGH 
Smithfield Street, 
Fifth & Oliver Avenues
Capital------$6,000,000
Surplus------$4,000,000
Resources Over 
$100,000,000
I
F you want the best pipe 
that can bo made, you 
can get it in a W D Cup 
to (3. If you want the best 
genuine French Briar that 
as little as 75 cents will buy, 
you can get it in a W D C. 
American made, in all sizes 
and styles, and sold at the 
bpst shops.
(Continued From Page One.) 
accomplished with much serenity, 
even though juvenile portions of the 
audience refused to be impressed.
The third play, by St. John Hankin, was the most popular of the four. 
Buchanan was Mr. llarburton, who 
calls himself the constant lover be
cause he is constantly in love; and 
Miss Farmer, the naive Evelyn, who 
listens gravely to his epigrams and 
paradoxes until the awful truth 
dawns on her that he makes love to 
pretty girls merely because he likes 
to. Both performers showed Im
provement in presence and in dic
tion, and Mother Nature had in no 
way disqualified them, apparently, 
for playing their pleasant parts.
A Florentine Tragedy," by Wilde 
and T. Sturgte Moore, relates the mis
adventure which befalls young Lord 
Guida Bardi when old Simone, re
turning home unexpectedly, discovers 
him entertaining the beautiful Bianva. The part of Simone, jealous hus
band, avaricious merchant, philoso
pher of the cynic school, and muster 
of the double entendre, is no easy 
one; but Viehman played it with 
splendid poise and gesture. He slip
ped on numerous lines, as did Church 
as Guido; and indeed it is only fair 
to praise the hidden prompter for 
the personal interest he showed in 
putting the play across. Mrs. Ena 
Lewis Willey was of course decora
tive, which is the great thing in any
thing Florentine; but her voice was 
more than decorative, it was filled 
with weariness and rebellion and : 
woe, and proved the chief means ; 
of submerging the aiulionco in the | 
tragic mood of the play. Sho was ; 
more convincing, however, as the ; 
unhappy wife than as the mad beau- I 
ty who bewitched Guido and led him : 
to his fate, though Miss Floyd as : 
the old nurse did what she could to 
emphasize to the audionce her mis
tress charms. Wo regard this play 
as the success of the evening; yet 
it concludcs with a piece -of Wilde 
psychology which leaves the ordlntary human being docidedly cold.
David Gaither made a capital Sellm 
in Ruby Red, a farce, the scene 
of which is Biskra, that romantic. 
desert city. Gaithers somewhat ver
tiginous mode of acting is hard to 
resist, though we did scruple to ad
mire the remarkable agitation ho con 
veyed into the role of Phllostrato 
last spring. As the wily Arab ho 
speaks English with a French ac
cent, and wafts Inoonso Into the face 
oi Mrs. Dane (.Veolante UOllingor; 
until the American lady, hypnotized 
and woll-smokod, consents lo pay 
$*100 for a twenty-five dollar ruby. 
.The audionce was odiiled at the sight 
of what appeared lo bo Navajo rugfi 
in the oriental chamber; and the 
danco contributed by the very grace 
fui Miss Ricards soomod to some ex
perienced persons present to partake 
of the Egyptian character. But, how
ever cosmopolitan the gonoral effect 
of the farce, there could be no doubt 
that Buchanan displayed tho- Amer
ican husband as wo havo learned lo 
rocognize him In that authoritative 
journal, the Saturday Evening Post 
Mr. Woodman Thompsons stage 
settings always deserve tho common 
dal Ion of the judicious. Tho back 
drop In tho Constant Lovor was an 
excellent, example or tho finer soil 
of scenic representation.
At the first meeting of the year, 
the Science Senior class elected the 
following men to office:
PresidentF. J. Nuttall.
Vice PresidentC. O. Hoban. 
SecretaryH. H. Blau.
TreasurerW. H. Gillett.
TRADE
Science Junior elections: 
PresidentM. A. Fair.
Vice PresidentJ. F. Giffen. 
SecretaryFawcett.
TreasurerWelsh.
SenateG. C. Stone.
Student Activities BoardGStone.No man over had n hotter pipe than tills one. Carefully solootod Kcnuino French Briar, a storlimr rim: and vulcanite bit. hand fitted and flnisliod by an exnwt.
Science Sophomores elected offi
cers Wednesday, January 15.  The 
results of the election were:
PresidentC. B. Schmidt.
Vice PresidentC. H. Todd.
SecretaryArthur F. Leet.
TreasurerH. B. Hildebrand.
Senate Representative (two-year 
term)F. S. Bloom.
Senate Representative (one-year 
term)C. T. McClean.
H. G. Nichol was appointed chair
man of the Plebe Discipline Com
mittee.
Science Freshmen elections:
PresidentCreighton.
Vice PresidentSkyrm.
TreasurerCassidy.
S ec re t a ryKrau s.
. ,,. .
|J BellSchcnlcy 389
| MISS OLEARY
(Formerly with J. E. T. Shuman) 
DRY CLEANINGREPAIRING 
Ladies and Men's Clothes, Cnrpets, Rues. Portieres Work Guarnnteed and Turned Out on Short Notice.Will call for all pressing and cleaning at Frat Houses.
3933 FORBES STREET (Oakland) PITTSBURGH, PA.
WM. DEMUTH .V CO., Now York
World's Largest Pij' Manufacturier
nnnmtnmvAmtnminnnnmnuitumnnniintmttmnmimnmmnnnnitnntnm:1
 Oakland Savings & Trust Co.
JTHE OAKLAND BANK"
CAPITAL............................................................................................$200,000.00 Jt
SURPLUS...........................................................................................$200,000.00 W
DEPOSITS OVER $3,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
OAKLAND 
SHOE REPAIRING 
COMPANY
Angelo Clemente, Prop. 
126 OAKLAND AVE. 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
The following officers have been 
election by the Design School for the 
coming year:
PresidentI. S. Stark.
First Vice PresidentO. R. Olmstead.
Second Vice PresidentMiss Marie 
Highberger.
SecretaryMiss Eloise McMahon. 
TreasurerJames Church.
HistorianBarry Dirks.
TylerClifford Lake.TRANSITS AND LEVELS 
ALL SUPPLIES FOR THE 
DRAFTING ROOMThe officers of the Design Senior 
Class are as follows:
PresidentH. D. Waterson.
Vice President  Miss Mildred 
Floyd.
TreasurerPhilip frreedman. 
SecretaryMiss Steinmaclier. 
HistorianMiss Levenson.
SenatorO. R. Olmstead.
Students Activities Board Repre
sentativeC. E. Silling.
At the first meeting of the Junior 
Class of Design School, the follow
ing officers were elected:
PresidentJames Church.
Vice PresidentR. W. Sclimertz.
Engineers' Equipment, Instru
ments of Precision, Blue Print 
and Brown Print Papers and 
Cloths.
SecretaryEdward Early. 
TreasurerEdward Early. 
SenatorB. Ppenos.
B. K. ELLIOTT CO
126 SIXTH STREET
The Design Sophomores have elected 
the following officers.
PresidentW. J. Perkins.
Vice PresidentMiss E. Brahm. 
SecretaryMiss Ferguson. 
TreasurerRobert Schell.
Design Freshmen:
Presiden tStults.
First Vice PresidentConnors. 
Second Vice PresidentMiss 
derwood.
SecretaryTucker.
TreasurerSelker.
HistorianKrane.
Forbes and Atwoocl Sts.
FOR TECH STUDENTS
Special values in Hosiery, 
Shirts, Underwear and Neck
wear.You cant do a friend 
a greater favor in the 
smoking line than to ay:
Evan J. Davis in The Saturday 
Evening Post.
Even though the aeroplane does 
travel the shortest route in the short
est time between any two given points, 
before a sufficient number o passen.gers can be induced to travel via the 
aerial line to make it financially profit
able to the transportation company 
the public must be assured that it is 
reasonably safe; that they can fly in 
comfort; and that the price is rea
sonable. So let us first see what has 
been done and what is being done to 
satisfy those three requisites.
The dangers of aeroplane flight have 
been grossly exaggerated by news
papers, which record only the unusual. 
Moreover, flying in the war zone was 
done under the most adverse and dan
gerous circumstances. Also the ma
chines were built for manoeuvering 
ability and speed, and not for stabil
ity and safety factors. Furthermore, 
all the scouts and most of the reconnoissance and battle planes were driv
en by only one motor, so that if en
gine trouble developed they had to 
volplane to the ground a,t the mercy 
of the anti-aircraft guns and the aerial 
fighters. ITinally,- they often had to 
land in shell-scarred terrain. Natural
ly the casualties were high. Indeed, 
the war in the air was meant to be as 
perilous and dangerous as it could be.
There were three discomforts of air 
travelthe cold, the noise of the motor 
and the lack of room in moving about. 
Electrically heated clothes eliminate 
the cold; acousticons, which shut out 
the noise of the motor but which per
mit the passengers or aviators to con
verse together, have already been in
stalled and are in universal use on 
aeroplanes. With the increase in the 
size of the aeroplanes and the num
ber of motors, the nacelles and the 
inclosed roomy cabins can be con
st: uc ted as they were on the famous 
Sykorsky aerobs, which was built in 
Russia before the war. This aeroplane 
carried twenty-one people to an alti
tude of seven thousand feet. On this
(Continued From Page One.) 
a lieutenant, captain, and major for 
the infantry, and due to the high 
proficiency he showed, he had no dif
ficulty in securing a majors commis
sion at the end of the summer. He 
was then attached to the 85th Cana
dian Infantry Battalion of Nova Sco
tia Highlanders. Before, long about 
Christmas of 1915, he was promoted 
to Lieutenant-Colonel, and was au
thorized to recruit his own battalion. 
As a result, the 185th Battalion was 
raised, and in October, 1916, Colonel 
Day went across with his battalion. 
While his battalion was in England, 
Colonel Day went to France in 1917, 
and fought with the 16th Royal Scots 
in the Armantieres section. In the 
spring he returned to' England to his 
185th battalion. Due to the great re
verses which the British were meet
ing at the hands of the Germans at 
that time, it was found necessary to 
break up a number of battalions and 
the 185th was among them. Incident
ally it was also necessary that 
Colonel Day step down one rank, and 
consequently he returned to France 
as a major, and joined the 25th Can
adians. On the eighth of August, 
during the battle of Amiens, he was 
promoted to Colonel on the field 
which is a very notable distinction. 
He was with the 25th Canadians dur
ing the battle of Newvlllevltasse and 
Mercatel, Amiens, Arras and the bat
tle before Cambrai. On October 18 
1918, Colonel Day went to the hos
pital on account of some bad .bruiser 
he received, and since he was In the 
hospital when the armistice wa;, 
signed, he was sent home as soon a 
he recovered.
Most of the students that Colonel 
Day knew at Tech before the war. 
have probably gone. But he will 
find that Tech now will welcome him 
with as hearty a friendship and as 
deep a respect ds Is due to a man 
who has done as much as ho.
Oakland Annex
3708 FORBES ST.Smoke a 
MURADTry our 40c Regular Dinners.
From 11 A. M. to 8 P. M. 
Soup, Meat, Two Vegetables, 
Dessert and Coffee and Tea.
And if your friend thinks he has 
to pay 30 ccnts for cigarettes, 
hand him one of your MURADS 
 and say:
Gm/vaitthM/uuL
wiikam^30GunJt
Qga/vUtB.
SHAVING PARLOR
Hair Cutting a Specialty
3721 Forbes Street
Oakland Pittsburgh, Pa.Makers cf thr [hghcit Grade Turkish and EqypUm arvttes m the VcrU
Oakland Flower 
Shop
FRESH FLOWERS RECEIVED 
EVERY DAY 
Flowers Delivered.
GET YOUR HAIR CUT 
------at the------
Preparedness.
\V 11:11 un* you doing at a trou8<>rs 
i*. Mrs. Newgirl? Women urc*{n't 
i-aring trousers. Not yet. I r.ui 
liliwell, anyhow, I'm just looking 
.round.Stray Stories.
Nearest to Tech
Cor. Craig and Forbes
FRED FARGEL, Proprietor
