---------u M U I__I___n II I I 1 M I ^ ) I I ) I ' t-t1$$ Qartan
Published Weekly By 
Students Of The Carnegie Technical Schools.
Science 
<2> 9Trade & &
mta*L
Publis hh 
elidsW kkh
yyBStSSSS
& i j  4)Applied! Design<^r r a jj j<a
GEORGE H. FOLLOWS, M. E., 
Professer of Department of Machine * 
Design.
Womens
JLL
m
FEBRUARY 19, 1908nyu OubbfWT BCs asfW 
nst rstBT BCs rugc

---------------------------------------------------

I JOSEPH HORNE CO.
X
0X*0**0X0*1X
X0-
*
*c>*I
i0*
8
?
PENN AVE.-FIFTH ST.
A GREAT DRY GOODS STORE 
That is proud to have a large family 
of some 80 other stores, all under one 
roof, thus enabling the public to pur
chase whatever is needed for the 
person or the house, at one time and 
at popular prices.
TO ADDRESS YOU, WE SHOULD 
HAVE YOUR ADDRESS.
Wed like ycur name on our address
ing list. Every little while we get up 
some good reading, and wed like to 
send some of it to you. Our cata
logue is a big book that women enjoy 
looking over frequently. Then we 
publish a paper as the spirit moves 
us. All in all youll like our literature, 
so send along your address.
0 %0\0V3so*o%o v:> v> vo v>\o v>\o*o*o*o;vo x
0S0X0X0: :S0X0X0S0X0X0X0X0X0X0%0%m0*0S
| BOWLING ALLEYS 
0 12 REGULATION ALLEYS 
'i PRIVATE ALLEYS FOR LADIES 
FINEST APPOINTED PLACE IN THE CITY f% BILLIARD AND POOL ROOM 
0 WILL OPEN EARLY IN JANUARY 
1 OAKLAND NATATORIUM II AND ATHLETIC CLUB I% 3607-3615 FORBES STREET 
o*ov^vov;\oyo\o\o%oxD\o%0\oN0\0*0\0i
0%0*v0\0*o*o*0*0%0*0*0\xy0*0xxx
0Xixo. o*o> oW- 0**e**0omxmoX-0*0o*%o0*gTi0ogi8X *00XiEoXoX*0oX*0s X10o*&00xUsXo8XuoX
BEST EQUIPMENT
Highest 
Grade 
Work
Prompt 
Service
O ETBfdbSTCsd 1893
gi*g0*8g0*0*
NOTICE!
FORSUPPLIES AND TOOLS . SEE 
OUR CATALOGUE IN REFERENCE
0%0%0%0*0%0*0%0%0%O%0*0*0*0%*0%0X0*
*ROOM, THEN COME TO OUR STORE g 
AND GET PRICES |
| 
1 
g 
0 
8 
S 
II
\ SFFLT CO.
209 Water Street
EXTRA FIVE PER CENT. DISCOUNT 
IF YOU MENTION THE TARTAN
00X0S0S0X0*0X0X0S0S0X0X0%0S0X0S0X0X*
0%0X0X0X0*0S0%0*0X0X0S0S0*0S0S0S0S0*
I WOLFE BRUSH CO. 1
^ Established 1848 -
 HIGH GRADE BRUSHES G
0 ONE FOR EVERY PURPOSE ^
g FOR THE BATH, TOILET, COMPLEXION $ 
0 SHAVING SETS TRAVELERS SETS g 
 MANICURE AND SCISSOR SETS J
  -  =  sG EOE RH.FLWS ,MFP r
/ Foot of Fifth Ave. ft0
0Factory at 15th and Bingham Sts. S. S.
s0*0*0m%0X0S0X0X0*0*0X0%0%0%0*0*0X0
0%0%0*0%0X0X0X0*0X0X0X0S0X0X0*0S03C0S
X0X0X0X0*0%0%0X0%0%0S0*0X0X0%0S0S0X0
Mil National lank
514 SMITHFI ELD STREET 
409 FIFTH AVENUE
CAPITAL$4,000,000
SOLICITS THE ACCOUNTS 
OF STUDENTS.
RsTulWcsT uvsW 41 MSbbSutT.
I*oxo 
 
g 
g1 I *%0%0%0%0%0%0%0%0%0%0%0%0\0%0%0%0%0%0

---------------------------------------------------

VOL. II, No. 21artan
PITTSBURG, PA., WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1908TEN CENTS
DISTINGUISHED PARTY VISITS TECH.
Last Wednesday morning a distinguished party 
of guests visited the schools and addresses were 
made to the student body. The party came to Pitts
burg as the guests of the local Chamber of Com
merce to take part in the Lincolns birthday celebra
tion and came to the schools at the invitation of 
Judge Buffington and Mr. Field. United States Sen
ators Carter and Dolliver; Representatives Fasset 
and Burke and President English of the Pittsburg 
Chamber of Commerce, were in the party. . Senator 
Carter delivered a short congratulatory address, after 
which Representative Fasset spoke as follows:
I do not know whether to say young men, gen
tlemen, or boys(Boys, from Judge Buffington).
I dont object to applause (the judge having rapped 
for order after Senator Carter sat down, on account 
of the time being so short). Take all the time you 
want. (Here Judge B. himself started enthusiastic 
applauding, in which they all joined). Now you did 
not hear me throughtake all the time you want to, 
cheering the Senate, for they need it. Representing 
as I do the only truly deliberative legislative body 
in the world, I am utterly indifferent to applause. 
The fact is Senator Carter and myself are here un
der false pretenses, a thing to avoid unless you can 
make it work. We came to Pittsburg to exchange 
some very poor speeches for a very good dinner.
I did not know that I was to have this oppor
tunity. I had an idea that I was to speak to the 
members of the Chamber of Commerce and was to 
look into the faces of the possessors of swollen for
tunes. Of course nobody in Pittsburg is dishonestly 
rich, and from what I have seen this morning I ap
prove of swollen fortunes if they will only unswell 
to give out what some have given.
I thought when Senator Carter started out that 
we were going to have a thirty-minute speech, and
I am sorry that we are not, for I would have had
more time to think of what not to say to you. I 
take my hat off to young men always because no
body can tell what they will do; all we can do is to 
tell what we hope they won t do. My friend, Mr. 
Burke, told me to tell you a story. Now, I am a 
serious-minded man and I have no stories to tell, but 
such an opportunity as this does not come to me 
every day in the year. I do not often get a chance 
to speak to 400 future presidents of the United 
States. I do not often have^ a chance to impress 
and direct the minds of future Pittsburg millionaires. 
Now that I am with you I want to do you good. 
Notice, I emphasize the word good. Not that 1 
wanted to do you good.
Now, right there is the gist of the philosophies 
that I am about to propound to youone of them 
right and the other wrong: The first theory is that 
which was propounded to me to stimulate my early 
educationget an education in order to make some
thing of yourselfthe world is your oyster if you 
can open the shell and get the meat. Get an educa
tion to improve yourself in every possible way, not 
to benefit yourself but to benefit the world. The 
keynote of real success is not in making the world 
serve you but in making yourself serve the world. 
Now that is not only good business and will not 
only lead to material success in the accumulation of 
fortune and of fame, but it is good ethics,it is 
good morals; it helps lift up all the world together. 
It gives you an inspiration for work and devotion 
an inspiration to all mankind everywhere.
There is no man whose name you love, there is 
no man whose name you revere, there is no hero 
whom you admire from early days down to the pres
ent time that did not achieve his place in history 
through some service to mankind. The name of 
Lincoln is the name that occurs to us to-day because 
it is his birthday. What we chiefly admire in Lin---------------------------------------------------

4 THE TARTAN
coin is not that he achieved the presidency, but 
what he gave of his heart's blood and his brain to 
keep this a nation worth living for. And no great 
fortunes are very honestly acquired which are not 
acquired through serving mankind somehow, some
where,getting more for same cost, better educa
tion for less cost. It is the record of service to men 
that makes the success of mankind, that makes the 
inspiration to individual effort. And if I can get 
that one thought into your mind, I shall be more 
than repaid for the agony I have been in for the last 
fifteen minutes thinking what to say.
You are all occupied doing something useful; 
you are here engaged in learning how to do things, 
to make things, to compare things and apply the 
great secrets of nature to the purpose and service 
of mankind. You are learning how to build ma
chineslearning all about intricate machines, but 
the most precious and most marvelous and most in
tricate machine you are interested in is man. You 
are engaged in making the best thing offered to 
man, that is mans character. You have every facil
ity; the good people who have founded this institu
tion, who are running and administering it, have 
done all that in them lies. It does not now depend 
on the President or Director, or the able Board of 
Trustees, but it depends on the use to which you 
put these opportunities. Right here I want to say 
that no man has any right to use and absorb the 
opportunities that society affords without being 
willing to give back in his turn. The man who goes 
into a store and gets goods and does not pay for 
them, what do we call him? We call him a thief. 
Now that man who takes from society protection to 
live and gives nothing tfack to the world is a drone. 
You are not to be drones, you are going to give back 
not only what you receive but you will be like good 
grain or seed sown in good soil. You cannot give 
without receiving. You grow as you make the 
world grow and the greatest blessings you ever re
ceive will be the reaction of the greatest blessings 
you perform.
---------o---------
THE HOCKEY GAME WITH WUP.
To-morrow evening the much talked of contest 
between Wup and Carnegie Tech will take place. 
Much interest has been shown and it is hoped that 
the Tech men will come out and support their team 
against so worthy a rival. The event will no doubt 
be one of the big school contests of the year as well 
as a fast game. Capt. Charles is confident of vic
tory, and should such a result happen, will feel that 
he has made up for the defeat by Rensselaer-Tech 
earlier in the season. This is possibly, though not 
certainly, the last chance that Tech students will 
have of watching this seasons hockey team at work, 
and the members of the team hope to see a large 
crowd present. The management of the Duquesne 
Gardens announced on Saturday evening that the 
regular price of fifty cents for admission to hockey 
games would be set aside on this one evening so
that students who feel that this amount of money 
was too much to spend in one evening, will no doubt 
be able to meet the smaller tax of thirty-five cents. 
The only change in the line-up of the team will be in 
the back line. Kochen, who played cover point, will 
go to point, a position he has been playing for some 
time in the amateur league teams. Dornberger will 
take Kochens position at cover point, and Leety will 
again play goal. Bright has recovered from the in
jury to his knee and will play right wing, while 
Close will hold down left wing. Mason will play 
center, and Capt. Charles will play rover. The team 
has shown wonderful improvement during practice 
the last two weeks and team work has been devel
oped under the able coaching of Mr. Day.
---------o---------
Smith Girls Object -to Wesleyan Play.
Senior girls at Smith have sent a protest to 
Wesleyan asking the men of that college to abandon 
the production of their approaching show, The 
Graduate of the Girl. The scene of the musical 
comedy is laid at Smith, and Smith girls are por
trayed in decolette gowns.
---------o---------
Cbe TTartan Calenfcar
Wednesday, Feb. 19. 
BASKET-BALL PRACTICE. 
HOCKEY PRACTICE.
Thursday, Feb. 20.
HOCKEY AT DUQUESNE GARDENWUP. VS. 
TECH AT 8.15 P. M. ADMISSION, 35c.
Friday, Feb. 21.
BASKET-BALL AT DUQUESNE AMPHITHEATRE 
AT 8.30WUP VS. TECH. PRELIMINARY 
BETWEEN CIVILS AND ELECTRIC
ALS. ADMISSION, 25c.
Saturday, Feb. 22.
WASHINGTONS BIRTHDAY  BASKET-BALL  
GENEVA VS. TECH AT DUQUESNE GAR
DEN AMPHITHEATRE, 8.15 P. M.
Notices to appear in the Calendar should be in the 
hands of the editor not later than Monday noon.

---------------------------------------------------

Fraternity Pins, Class Pins, Badges, Prize Cups, Fine Tools
HEEREN BROS. &CO. MANUFACTURING JIWLERS aid SILVERSMITHS.
---------HEEREe BUhLOheG, PEee APE. & 8nH Sn.---------
Ws fWs BCs MfksWT uf BCs rfWtsgSs nscC. ScCuub PStT
o
PLEBES |
The regular morning lecture on The Evolution 
of Politics was omitted last Wednesday. In its 
stead, Prof. Doyle gave a most interesting talk on 
Lincolns life and readings from his speeches, begin
ning with the Gettysburg address. He paid glow
ing tribute to the direct simplicity of that master
piece, as illustrative of that predominating charac
teristic of all Lincolns literary work. The second 
inaugural address followed, and drew the speakers 
attention to the life and action of the man; of early 
training, or rather the lack of it, that should be a 
source of encouragement to any young man, and of 
his remarkable personality. The funeral sermon 
that was delivered by Bishop Simpson was read in 
part, after which America was sung. A large flag 
and a picture of the former president, brought to 
school by little Miss Mary Doyle, decorated the 
speakers platform. The honor paid to the memory 
of a great man, was a small thing in itself, but it 
was evidence of a tangible nature, of the true patriot
ism, to be found in every Americans hearta thing 
to be proud of; a thing to be fostered.
The editor hereby avails himself of this oppor
tunity to formally announce the granting of for
giveness to the Industrials for their participation in 
horse-play. Frequentative, frivolousness and in
discriminate vivaciousness, being an absolutely in
separable accompaniment to rudimentary education, 
must of consequence, be sempiternally endured.
Will Mr. R. F. W., of the University of Penn
sylvania kindly write to L. W. N., of Carnegie Tech?
Materials cf Construction.
(With apologies to I cant do the sum.) 
Students:
Lambda means P over Aunit area stress;
And Alets seewhat DOES A mean?
Oh, area, I guess.
Professor:
Now get the slide rules working, boys,
Get busymake things hum,
And find the'elastic limit of 
Gwendolyns chewing-gum.
Chorus (on slide rules):
Ohh, Ohh, Ooooh!
Log of six plus log of two,
Then, what the dickens do you do?
You can slide and slide and slide 
Till your hands are numb,
Then look what the slide rule says
Aint that going some?
Taggart, 10.
Mclntire in EnglishAn exclamatory sentence 
is one under strong influence.
Coldren, looking at drawing 19 upside down 
I dont exactly see how they make this out.
The Tartan Board begs to acknowledge the re
ceipt of an interesting contribution from C. F. Borschneck, which will be placed on file and printed at an 
early date.
* 
t *
A FAMOUS NEW YORK HATTER 
MAKESStudents Hats 
and <2aps
Soft liats in our new PanamaFelts 
in all colors with plain or fancy bands.
Tweed caps in smart patterns of both 
foreign and domestic manufacture.
Derby, Silk and Opera Hats in the 
fashionable young mens styles.
TT ETTING
Fifth arid Wylie TWO stores Seventh and Smithfield

---------------------------------------------------

6THE TARTAN
| M. M. C. S. |
Miss Mabel Corbould, 09...................Editor-in-Chief
-Miss Frances Looney, 09................Business Manager
Basket-ball has become a flourishing game un
der Miss Stoners able supervision and the Friday 
afternoon games between the Plebe and Junior 
teams are looked forward to with great interest 
by all.
There is splendid material in both classes to 
make a very fast school team. We hope that Miss 
Stoner will allow us to have H'igh School team over 
again soon, as practice is what we need, besides 
which we learn many points by seeing how out
siders can handle the ball.
On February the fourteenth the faculty of 
the M. M. C. S. gave a reception to the faculty of
the Pittsburgh High Schools. The visitors were
shown over the building by some of the girls from
the Household Arts elass, and the Dressmaking
class, dressed in their costumes.
The refreshments were appropriate to the day; 
the cakes and candy were red and white hearts, 
and looked quite effective.
The visitors evidently enjoyed the afternoon 
very much, and seemed much interested in the 
work of the school.
The A Division of 1910 had a most delightful 
time in History last week. Each member of the' 
class received a prize in the shape of a Marron 
Glace, for correctly pronouncing the w-ord. Sugar 
plums are usually awarded to children for good 
behavior.
Miss Emma Belle Beal, President of the class 
of 1910, has withdrawn temporarily from the class 
on account of poor health. She was an active mem
ber and was very popular. We hope her health will 
improve sufficiently so that she can be with us again 
before the end of the year.
Glee Club.
The Glee Club has not been heard from lately, 
but it is working hard. Many new and charming 
songs are being practiced and soon the nightin
gales will burst into song.
The Club offers an apology to all who are dis
turbed by its melodious warblings, and hopes soon 
to win their admiration.
Miss CNo wonder girls have bad complexions 
when they have five minutes for lunch on Sena
tors Day.
Miss A. (in Math.)It is extremely impolite to 
look at watches when I am entertaining you.
The Tartan has been neglected lately by the 
class of 1910, but the reporters of that class have 
determined to do their share in the future to keep 
the ball rolling. The students are requested to aid. 
---------o---------
When you call a girl a kitten,
You are sure to get a pat;
So why should you get the mitten 
When you say she is a cat?
But you do.
If you say a girls a vision 
It will fill her with delight;
So there should be no collision 
When you say she is a sight.
But there is.
When you call a man sly old dog,
He asks you in to sup;
Why should it set his wrath agog 
When you say he is a pup?
But i't does. Ex.* * * *
A definite movement at Minnesota has been be
gun toward the building of a student theater. Nearly 
a thousand dollars, all of which has been realized 
from the presentation of two student plays, Twelfth 
Night and Esmeralda, is already in the hands of 
the committee.
The number of students registered at Cornell 
this year is 4,640.* * * *
A monument to Washington Duke is being erect
ed at Trinity College, N. C. The monument is the 
work of Valentine, the Richmond sculptor.* * * *
A correspondence chess match is to be held in 
the near future between Chicago and Wisconsin 
universities.* * * *
At the annual sophomore informal at Nebraska 
this year, the girls will make out the programs.* * * *
If Its Leap Year.
Why is it that we still must ask 
The girls to dance, to see the show,
Receive our flowers and chocolate?
It isnt fair y know.
Harvard Lampoon^* * * *
lithelWas he satisfied with one kiss?
GladysHumph, I think he was satisfied with 
all of them.Yale Rec.* * * *
SheDo you like tea?
HeYes, but I like the next letter better. 
Wisconsin Sphinx.* * * *
I hear Blank has water on the knee, wonder 
fhat hell do for it?
Wear pumps, probably.Yale Record.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
THE THISTLE.
The discussion as to who should edit the Thistle 
and who should be represented on the Thistle board 
has unfortunately caused considerable feeling, a 
great deal of which was- due to misunderstanding, 
we believe.
The School of Applied Science and the Trade 
School were approaching the subject from different 
angles, as was also the Margaret Morrison School. 
The Trade School started with the assumption that 
the Thistle was a year book of the Carnegie Tech
nical Schools, and being such, should have repre
sentatives on its board from each of the four schools. 
Their position was strengthened by the fact the 
first two Thistle boards had men on them represent
ing the Trade Schools. Their contention was not 
that they wished to be permitted to share some
thing belonging primarily to the Scln ^1 of Applied 
Science, but rather that something they considered 
belonged to them should not be taken away from 
them.
The School of Applied Science, on the other 
hand, took the position that as the Thistle originated 
in that school, it belonged to them. In support of 
their position, they pointed to the preface of the 
Thistle, which seemed by its wording to designate 
the book as an Applied Science enterprise and that 
the other schools named were only admitted to 
representation in order to more thoroughly and eas
ily cover the entire range of student activity of the 
Carnegie Technical Schools.
Looking at the matter then as purely one of 
convenience rather than one of right or wrong, the 
Senior and Junior classes of the Day School of Ap
plied Science, adopted resolutions embodying a mode 
of procedure by which the Thistle should be pub
lished by the Schools of Applied Science and Design 
(Night and Day), the Junior Class of Day Applied 
Science to' have direct supervision of the work.
The mater of changing the basis of conducting 
the work was unduly delayed and undoubtedly con
tributed to the misunderstanding, making it more 
difficult for each school to see the position of the 
others.
The discussion has ended, if not to the satis
faction of everybody, at least on a basis which 
permits of no future misunderstanding. We see 
no reason why each school should not be successful 
in an enterprise of this kind, even if the publication 
should not be as pretentious as one gotten up by 
all the schools. Further than this, we can see no 
reason why the schools should not continue to work 
together in harmony and together contribute to the 
maintenance of student activities as belong to the 
schools as a whole.
At the Unievrsity of Nebraska the editor-inchief of the Daily Nebraskan receives five hours 
credit for his work upon that paper, the managing 
editor three hours, and each reporter one hour.
* sMADE ESPECIALLY FOR YOU *
WHAT? *0FULLERGREENECHOCOLATES *For Samples Call on ^
PHILLIPS <fc MANNING ^
3702 Forbes Stieetor W>
ROB. R. WINGERT & CO.
BROAD &, COLLINS AVE., E. E.
WM. F. KNOX.
The announcement of the appointment of Mr. 
Wm. F. Knox, of Yale University, as head foot-ball 
coach for Qarnegie Tech for next season was hailed 
with delight by the members of the student body 
who are interested in this branch of athletics.
Mr. Knox is a Pittsburgher and graduated from 
the Allegheny Preparatory School in 1903. While 
there he was the foremost athletic, in track and foot
ball work, of this section. He played on the Yale 
elevens for three years and graduated from that 
school in 1907. He was selected as head graduate 
coach for the Yale foot-ball team, land did much 
to bring that body up to the high standard attained 
by them last season. He will be able to devote 
considerable of his time to Tech as we learn that 
he is reading law in this city. This appointment 
should attract considerable good foot-ball material 
to Tech and rouse the spirit of all the students, 
both Day and Night.
The State Legislature now in session will likely 
authorize the establishment of a law department at 
the University of Oklahoma.

---------------------------------------------------

be tartan
Published Weekly During the School Year by 
Students of the Carnegie Technical 
Schools, Pittsburg, Pa.
Entered at the Pittsburgh postoffice as second class matter.
F. E. Foster, 08.........................................Editor-in-Chief
R. K. Merrill, 08; J. H. Taxis, 10; F. I. Gaston, 09, 
Associate Editors.
J. M. Sampson, 08...........................Business Manager
C. L. Carver (Night)... .Assistant Business Manager
Jos. Roura, Jr., 10.......................Circulation Manager
Correspondents.
A. F. Stamm (1911, Night).
L. W. Nicols (Plebes).
D. J. Spence, 08 (App. Design).
J. L. Hoffman (1912, Night).
J. C. French (Industrials). 
Ray Rodgers (Night Applied Design).
Subscription Rates.
Yearly ............................................................ $2.00
Single Copy ........................................................10 Cents
For Advertising Rates, address the Business 
Manager, Care Carnegie Technical Schools.
To Dame Fortune and no other the Carnegie 
Technical Schools and her students owe the debt 
of gratitude for their acquisition of Professor George 
H. Follows. Heavy in debt they are, too, for his 
kind are as rare as blossoms on century plants. 
The Dame was on the job working overtime soon 
after the schools became a reality, having her say 
so in picking out its faculty. Some may say she 
took a nap on one or two occasions, but they will 
agree that in the aggregate she was wide awake, 
and alert, and when she led forth her Follows 
she was to make one of her strokes that will doubt
less be her strongest bid for gratitude of the Tech 
men, past, present and future. We speak not to 
flatter, for has not one class by acclamation declared 
him the most popular of Tech professors, and again, 
has not his place in student favor been elevated, if 
possible, too, since that time?
A man with a wide and varied experience who 
knows the world as the world, and holds his spe
cialty, in which he is a recognized specialist, as one 
amongst many, of the elements that make for happi
ness, an accomplished musician, an artist and painter 
of no mean ability, a lover of books, an athlete and 
sportsman, to all these he gives time, and further 
and more important, he finds ample opportunity for 
mixing with the boys.
The minor details regarding him might be sum
marized thus: Born in Manchester, Eng., graduated 
at famous Manchester Technical School, came to 
America, employed by Brown, Sharpe & Co., em
ployed by several engineering firms, became stand
ardizing engineer of Westinghouse Co., assistant 
Professor of Machine Design, and one year later 
Professor of that Department Carnegie Tech.
---------o---------
JULIAN KENNEDY, NOTED CONSULTING EN
GINEER, ADDRESSES STUDENTS.
The students of the 1908 and 1909 classes, 
School of Applied Science, were given a real treat 
last Friday morning in the shape of an informal talk 
by Mr. Julian Kennedy, an engineer whose name is 
familiar to the engineering fraternity of this country. 
He confined himself almost entirely to donts, in
terposed in the points of advice were humorous 
vein's that brought forth much applause and laugh
ter. He strongly advised the men against becoming 
too mathematical to the exclusion of such essentials 
as the knowledge of English and histories, and 
tersely put it that the student must not scorn 
Milton or Shakespeare, even if those men had failed 
to know the difference between a compound recip
rocating engine and an alternating dynamo. He 
was given a veritable storm of applause when he 
finished.
---------o---------
CHANGES IN FOOT-BALL RULES.
When the Intercollegiate Rules Committee con 
vened a short time ago to revise the foot-ball rules 
for the season of 1908 the forward palss was the 
subject of the most discussion. The pass as used 
by the Indians and some of the small colleges last 
fall showed the game of chance that was involved in 
making the pass. The ball was thrown thirty yards 
or more indiscriminately and with the hope that 
some player would recover it in the mix-up for a 
gain. In view of this fact the Rules Committee de
cided that only the one man eligible to receive the 
ball could touch it, and that if a player eligible to 
recover the pass touched and fumbled it, he alone 
could recover it for the side which made the pass. 
Failure to make the pass gives the ball to the oppos
ing side at the point where the pass was made. In 
order to equalize thingfs the defending side is pre
vented from holding and can only use hands in 
pushing an opponent out of the way.
Any penalties imposed on a team may be de
clined by the offended side. The intermission was 
lengthened to 15 minutes, and the failure of a team 
to appear in two minutes after the signal gives the 
ball to the team then on the field on their oppo
nents thirty-yard line. Several other improvements 
were suggested, such as numbering the players and 
the like, but no definite action was taken.
---------o----------
Mr. Mamatey, formerly instructor in the Ma
chine shop, has joined the organization of the 
schools again. Glad to see you back, Mr. Mamatey.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
____._T.T_ ___ v
Gus Zitterman, 09, who has been ill with typhoid 
fever for some time, has returned to school.
When Dry Cleaning is done properly you cant 
help but be satisfied. See SHUMAN, at 3911 Forbes, 
near Boquet. Give him a sample order.
Dr. Hamerschlag is now in Germany. He was 
recently tendered a banquet, at which several of the 
nobility were in attendance.
Ludie Burdick Weidlein entertained a large party 
of friends at his pro tempore home in Wilkinsburg 
last Sunday evening.H= * * *
WANTEDEvery student to know that the Tar
tan columns are open for all who wish discuss any 
subject of student moment.* * * *
Mr. Henry Berger, an expert microscopist, deivered a lecture before the Crucibles last Saturday 
evening. There was a good-sized audience.Hi ? Hi Hi
The Civils held their regular meeting last Satur
day evening.? * ? ?
Every knock a boost.Hi * * *
If you fail to get recognition in class-meeting at 
once, the proper spirit is to knock the presiding offi
cer!If you are a knocker.* Hi Hi *
He is not in my set. Popularize the phrase, it 
is much more euphonious than the uncouth group of 
words in general favor with, clique movement. In 
this school, the product of Triumphant Democracy. 
My! my!* * * *
R. P. White, 10, has been elected secretary and 
treasurer of the Techmont Club, to succeed R'. R. 
Boughner, 09, resigned.# * $ *
Last week it was, Have you got the grip? 
This week it is, Get through the quizzes? Next 
week it will be, Got your girl for the Prom?* * * *
They say variety is the spice of life. The ladies 
at the Prom will get the full benefit of the spice, be
cause the beginners can not expect to imitate each 
other with only three interviews on how to dance. 
The style will be the man, with due allowance.? ? ? ?
Do not inadvertently carry matches in your back 
pocket at the Junior Prom. A fire extinguisher 
would cause confusion in a ball room.* * * *
Gaston, Felkel, and Ketter should hold a meeting 
and discuss right of way rules before going to the 
Prom.If the three should meet at once!Hs * * *
Prof. Esquerre, of the M. M. C. S., has left the
city for a vacation of a few weeks to recuperate from
his severe operation of a short time agao.
P. U. Rensland, 1911 (Night), and R. L. Sloss,
1912 (Night), have left school.
Hi * Hi *
The final survey for the permanent athletic 
stadium will be made this week.* * * *
Dr. Frazer, who has done some very creditable 
research work, has joined the corps at work in the 
Government Testing Laboratory.* * * *
Ben Watrous, 09, J. F. Reilly, 09, C. C. Allen, 
10, R. B. Decker, 10, and B. M. Powers, 12, have 
lately taken up residence at the Techmond Club.* ? ? *
Wanted to KnowDoes a mans worth vary di
rectly or inversely as the knocking he receives?Hi Hi Hi H:
C. H. Shultz, 10, president of the Techmont Club, 
spent Sunday at his home in Ravenna, Ohio.* * * *
The Woodlawn College Club had a sleigh party 
on Tuesday evening, February 11th.
* * * *
And still no sign of the Senior Dramatics.* * * *
The Senior Ball Committee will be appointed in 
the near future.* * * *
Mr. Field delivered the address of the evening 
at the 1912 Smoker. He was roundly applauded.
M. A. KOIMOLD
------DEALER IN-------
FINE GROCERIES, TEAS, COFFEES, ETC.4634 Centre Avenue, Corner Melwood Street 
P. & A. 1582-K. Bell Schenley 1634
| Mens Heavy Tan fI Oil Grain Bluchers |S: $4.oo $5.oo $6.oo$
h SnOEBEeERS I
4* 6227 Penn Ave.
6222 FrankstownEAST END * 
* *

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
| NINETEEN TWELVE |
*3C8SC83aC03aC833C8C8C8?eC83383av 
J. Le Roy Hoffman, Editor.
The Smoker.
The smoker held last Friday was a decided 
success, and the class congratulates themselves for 
having a good, capable social committee. The lem
onade, the tobacco and the pipes were, of course, 
there, the pipes proudly attired in the class colors, 
thanks to Mr. Samples suggestion and to the ability 
for tying bows of one of the officers sisters.
The Most Hon. Mr. R. Griffith acted as M. of C., 
and introduced Mr. Field, who gave us a few thoughts 
worth remembering, together with a few humorous 
remarks worth repeating. The Mandolin Club ren
dered a choice spasm of music and followed it up 
with several others equally as good later in the 
evening (the ding-pots were iif tune, too). Our 
president then delivered his maiden speech which 
was excellent, butspeak louder next time, Helm. 
A four-round boxing bout between Mr. Swinbank, 
12 man, and Mr. Fuhs, of the plumbing school, 
was next announced and aroused much enthusiasm 
among the sports. The bout was called off at 
the end of the third round as one of the boxers 
seemed to think he was in a blowing contest. No 
decision was given but we are mighty proud of 
Swinbank. Mr. Sample acted as referee and Mr. 
Werry as time-keeper. Mr. Leete then gave us a 
few remarks on the athletic situation and announced 
the name of our new foot-ball coach. (Great ap
plause.) The pie-eating contest was next and seven 
big-mouthed, hungry-looking fellows presented them
selves and soon tackled the big berry pies. Mr.Werry
(12 man) and Mr. ------------- finished together, and
will each be given a Tech pennant. Time, two 
minutes and eighteen seconds. Mr. Werry would 
undoubtedly have finished first, had not the clumsy 
fellow dropped half his pie on the floor. This, he of 
course, had to get after, and still he finished ahead 
of all save one. The other contestants, Hoffman, 
Cole, Dan Griffith, Roberts, McCreery and Glase, 
finished within ten minutes, Hoffman receiving the 
booby prizeindigestion. Just at this stage of 
the affair the minstrels were duebut they were 
not quite ready yet, and Scotty Henderson gave 
us a few remarks regarding his pet hobby, athletics. 
And yet those minstrels failed to come so the Man
dolin Club very generously worked a little overtime 
and rendered a few splendid selections. Mr. R. 
Griffith was getting very, very nervous meanwhile 
and an explosion was averted only by the arrival 
of burnt cork artists who came in with a bang and 
went out with a shout. Mr. Lonergan, Mr. Paden 
and Mr. Helmig were undoubtedly the stars of the 
bunch. The latter two gentlemen are not Tech men, 
but they should be, and they proved to be such
jolly good fellows that a formal invitation to be
come one of us has been extended to them. The 
other minstrels, Skeehan, Hoffman, and Hineman 
furnished fun in the shape of jokessome old, some 
new, but all- good. Mr. Farrell and Mr. Lonergan 
sang several good solos which were well received. 
The minstrels all worked hard to make a success 
of their part and deserve much praise, but special 
mention must be made of Farrell, who had them in 
charge, and of Messrs. Paden and Helmig, who very 
generously gave their time and talent to help make 
our smoker a- success. Mention must also be made 
of the Mandolin Club and of the executive staff of 
the Class of 1911, who accompanied the gang 
or rather took the gangover to the beanery 
where the good time was prolonged for a while 
longer.
Did everybody have a good time?
1912 is sending a large delegation of rooters 
over to the Gardens next Thursday evening. We 
are going to show that the night men are ready to 
stand by their words when they talk of basket-ball 
games, etc., on school nights.
Someone has suggested an all-night class or
ganization. This is a good idea, and there are many 
reasons which could be put forth in its favor, while 
those of an opposite opinion could advance just 
as many and just as good reasons against it-per
haps. 1912 is of the belief that the ayes have it 
and she is willing and ready to aid in the perfection 
of such an organization.
McCowen asks for the support of the class in 
bringing a basket-ball team together and promises 
to do the same stunt that he did with the foot-ball 
squad. He makes his promises good. Negotiations 
are under way for the securing of a hall, but halls 
are not found growing on bushes and managers 
show you the door if you cant present him with 
some of the coin of the realm as a slight token 
of regard. A call has also been issued for candi
dates for practice, but . Hist, there, basket-ball 
stars, dont be so modest; hand your name to Mc
Cowen and let him know that you are willing any
way; he will soon let you know regarding your 
capability. There is Wayman, Werry, Keagy and 
the rest of them.
iSomebody ought to teach that fellow Crosby 
how to play billiards. He seems to think that he 
should have his turn when playing with five or six 
fellows as often as when playing with one. Wonder 
if he is a little bit better acquainted with the rules 
of basket-ball?
Farrells minstrels were certainly the hit of 
the evening.
Is it anything marvelous that Jerome K. 
Jerome is so popular with the fair sex? What a 
hansome niggah dat fellah am!

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN11
Courteous Service, Conservative management, and unquestioned security offered depositors at the
Oakland Savings and Trust 60.
CAPITAL $200,000.00 SURPLUS $126,000.00 
IROQUOIS BLOCK OAKLAND
And President Helm delivered a speech! Shake 
Karl, we didnt think it was in you.
A maxim for the pie-eatersGee, isnt it great 
to be crazy?
Skeehan, after a vigorous use of sand-soap, hot 
water, etc., Is my face -clean? No, Regis, your 
face was not clean.
A remark passed by one of the absent ones, 
when told about it the next day, Gee, I wish I had 
gone now. Well, dear friend, you need not feel 
lonely, all the A. O.s echo your sentiments.
The social committee can be pardoned for strut
ting about like game roosters. They worked hard 
for the smoker and their efforts were rewarded 
with success.
How Lonergan ever survived that black look of 
Skeehans and that scowl from Farrell when he for
got his part, is beyond human comprehension.
Thank you, 10, for your kind words in last 
weeks Tartan. It is our purpose to make our organ
ization a strong and permanent one and are pleased 
with the success with which we are meeting.
Pie, as a midnight diet, may not be conductive 
to sound engineering reasoning, but it is synonymous 
with a good time.
---------o---------
APPRENTICES.
Last Wednesday evening the Apprentices elected 
J. T. White representative to the Tartan. He re
quests the correspondents in all Apprentice Depart
ments to deliver their copy to him on Friday even
ings before date of publication.
---------o---------
At Illinois a mass meeting of students has been 
called in order that the University authorities may 
see the views and opinions of the student upon the 
five-game foot-ball rule.* * * *
Regents of the University of Minnesota have 
voted to extend the engineering course from four 
years to five.$ * * *
The Harvard faculty has asked the New England 
colleges to reduce the number of intercollegiate con
tests. Tuft, Williams, Vermont and Colby agree, 
but Brown, Bowdoin, Maine, Bates, Amherst, and 
Dartmouth are opposed to the idea. There are 
many unfavorable comments on Harvards action.
* WASHheGnOeS BhRnHOAa 4
^ Can be rightly celebrated if you let us help you.
 Cherry and Flag Napkins, American Flags,
4* Washington Busts, and other suitable novelties
2 can be had of us. We will put up ice cream in
 shape of American Flags and Miniature Wash
ingtons.
HALLER BAKERY 1
3618 Forbes Ave. Iroquois Block 
AV^A^A^A^A^A^A^A^A^A^A^A^A^A^Ai^tA^A^A^
WALLACE OPTICAL CO. I
$ Suite 503-505
i* Diamond Bank Building
* PITTSBURG, PA. _____________ *
X *& Eyes tested free. Prescriptions 4*
 promptly filled. All work
$ guaranteed. 2
TW^TMTWWWWTVW^MWTVTVTyvWTVTVTy
Flowers
The largest stock on hand at all 
times is the one from which to 
select.
The prices are reasonable and 
consistent with the best quality.
I Am W. SMITH
 345 SIXTH AVENUE PITTSBURG, PA. g
Tvw.wTyvvTwTMWsVwvwTVxVyTyTyTyTWTyTW
$
Bell Phone 1454-R Schenley
PHOENIX PRINTING CO., INC.
304 Bouquet St., Oakland 
CARDS, PROGRAMS, INVITATIONS, 
AND HIGH GRADE STATIONERY
<>>999><99<99<<<99
vyvwwlwWWTvwwsTywxTyTv.TWTMW.WTv
PHILLIPS AND MANNING
Stationers
Magazines Post Cards
FULLER-GREENE CHOCOLATES
3702 Forbes Street 4. Cigars Tobacco
WVWvyTyTWVMT-r^VWTWTWTWTWrWTWTWTWTWTWT

---------------------------------------------------

12THE TARTAN
&&ij4i)&j^r4ijaFEi)&ir&&iaF4&iB^)&&&&Ra4^4Ui4&  o% SrHOOL OF APPLhEO OEShGe |
h ehGHn S
# 8jXK^OOv'OC^OOC-^OOCHC'CHX^OC'C^CHXNXHX^MCM^,
Raymond J. Rodgers, Editor.
Owing to the Tech.-W. U. P. hockey game on 
Thursday, February 20, the meeting of the Atelier 
scheduled for that date has been postponed to Mon
day, February 24, following immediately after Mr. 
Lees lecture. A large attendance is requested, as 
business of vital importance to all will be transacted.
Fellows:It behooves all to familiarize them
selves with the facultys new ruling regarding 
charettes. This may save much trouble as the 
faculty are determined about these matters. Read 
the Presidents Message on the bulletin board.
Henry Buxton is with Janssen & Abbott tempor
arily.
All the students of this department wishing 
to try for the Atelier basket-ball team please hand 
their names to Robling. Practice will be announced 
shortly as well as dates with the other School teams 
and the proposed inter-class league.
It is noted the competition for the successful 
architect for the new Western University of Penn
sylvania buildings has been revised so as to be in
teresting to local architects. It is a coincidence 
that several of our students will have fun working 
on designs to house our North Side Rivals.
The Atelier Guitar and Mandolin Club held a 
rehearsal last Friday evening. They gave us some 
good music and will be heard with pleasure at the 
shin-dig on Tuesday evening.
Do not forget to attend the hockey game Thurs
day evening at Duquesne Garden, the admission 
having been reduced to 35c and a large attendance 
will enable the manager of the team to secure other 
dates. Many of the students are planning to attend 
in a body and will be heard from.
PERTINENT AND IMPERTINENT.
.Some time ago two sets of notes were handed 
to Hap Hower of the physics department. A 
marked similarity stamped them as being the pro
duct of one brain, and further, one set had an ela
borate sketch of the apparatus used, while the other 
had in lieu of this, a note which said: For diagram 
see Mr. ------s notes. When he, of the notes with
out sketch got his book back, this terse little bit 
of information wras written on the cover: For mark, 
see Mr. ------s notes.
*0\*0\4<'\*ON*ON* VFOVv OV*<>S
O  PENN AND SHERIDAN AVES,, EAST END *
* S o...., r,___ M I  A o,..L  *^ Second FloorMoreland Block ^ ^
r WoF feRsD.H, r p % 3 2 2I 4* a James li. Crookston, Prop. &  0
Strictly High Class Billiard Hall 
James B. Crookston, Prop.
F 
nEET HE AT KINGS CAFE
3621 FIFTH AVENUE 
AND HAVE A MEAL LIKE MOTHER USED TO COOK 
$3.50 MEAL TICKETS FOR $3.00
ROTHS BARBER SHOP
3617 FORBES STREET
First Class Haircutting and Face and Head 
Massage a Specialty. Quinine Sage Tonic 
a Sure Cure for Dandruff 10c Treatment
OPEN UNTIE ) P. M.
CULLEN & THOMPSON 
DRUGGISTS
HIGH CLASS DRUGS FINE CIGARS AND CANDY
Centre ave. and Neville st., Pittsburg, Pa.
COZY LUNCH ROOM
3807 FIFTH AVENUE
nRa OUR 15 rk. MEAL
$3.00 LUNCH TICKET $2.50
-------RICKETTS-------
Plumbing and Heating Company 
JOBBING PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO
3908 Fifth Avenue 
Bell Phone 30 Schenley Pittsburgh, Pa.
AFTERSCHOOL.
------meet me atWELKERS BILLIARD PARLORS
114-116 Atwood Street, Oakland
Phone 9701-R SchenleyEUGENE WELEEE, Prop.
Remember Thursday, Friday and Saturday 
nights. ^
ThursdayTech vs. Wup (Hockey).
FridayTech vs. Wup (Basket-ball).
SaturdayTech vs. Wup (Basket-ball).
* * * *
The American Chemical Society, Pittsburg Div
ision, will hold their regular monthly meeting on 
February 20, at the schools. Papers on Electro 
Analysis and Some Problems of the Food In
dustries will be read.
---------o---------
The Cornell University Register, just lately is
sued, shows a total enrollment of 4,640.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN13
xaxexexemexexexexexex^xexexitcexexex*
I * I8 INDUSTRIALS g
1 IAY1a1,,,,0Y,00r,,180 ,,0a1a10r,,0r,,0ar,Y 
Last week the writer had the pleasure of listen
ing to and participating in arguments on the Labor 
Union question pro and con, which took place in the 
popular smoking room adjacent to Wall Street, 
and which, at times, became more forcible than ele
gant. As it is nearing the end of the time which 
has been set aside for debating in the Industrial sec
tions, and as more or less hard feeling has been 
aroused by this question, we would suggest that 
some Saturday in the near future we hold a morning 
session of all Industrials in the assembly hall and 
let the three best speakers from the apprenticeship 
classes debate the question with the three of the pre
paratory students whom Mr. Birge might be glad to 
name as the most able, and thus settle the matter for 
all time.
The Plebes accuse us of having three of last 
seasons foot-ball stars in our basket-ball line-up. 
We plead guilty and beg to remind them that we 
have two more in reserve.
Fist IndustrialDid you hear how the pyramids 
were named.
Second IndustrialNo?
First IndustrialThey appear amid the desert, 
you know.
Naismith, 1910, was heard to remark that it 
was about time for the Industrials to clean off the 
ice on the tennis courts. Thats right, Naismith. 
We just want to let the Tartan readers know your 
connectionyoure the mop.
Prof.Yes, French. When it goes it goes all
A certain student who was over anxious to at
tend the Allegheny H. S. Industrial basket-ball game, 
was excused on account of his aching tooth, assur
ing the instructor, in answer to his inquiry, that he 
did not expect to attend the game. Imagine his 
amazement upon coming face to face with that same 
instructor in the Allegheny High Schools gym.
In a hotly contested game of basket-ball the In
dustrials were defeated by the Allegheny High 
School five upon the latters floor by a score of 35-10. 
If any bitter feeling was resultant from defeat it 
was soon dispelled by the courteous treatment which 
the Allegheny fellows meted out to the Tech men 
in the form of a light luncheon, consisting mainly of 
delicious doughnuts and excellent java, which, we 
understand, were prepared by some of the four stu
dents of the manual training department of the 
schools.
All good students are photographed by
aaaaaaaaoFtLSaaaaaaaaa
For Class and Fraternity Groups.
WE SAYYou can't get them as good at any price. Students invited to inspect our work.
O. G. HENRY
Studio, 321 Fifth Ave., Pittsburg, Pa.
(Our prices no higher than you pay for inferior work.)
A OOWe-nO-OAnE MESSAGE
enhances the joy of victory
Lessens the sting of defeat
THE TECH EAEBEE SHOP
Cor. Craig and Forbes Streets 
H. F. Van Curen, Prop.
Our MottoDont WorrySmile!
GOOD THINGS TO EAT
AT THE PURE FOOD STORES OF
GEO. K. STEVENSON & CO.
Sixth Avenue 
Down Town
Highland and Center
X> X-c
HfWdyfWs ftd HulTs-flWtSTCStg 
GuudT
Scarborough & Klauss=
3809 FIFTH AVENUE
Bell 117-R Schenley Open Evenings
DR. E. S. McNEVIN
OEenhSn
CHARLES BUILDING 
N. E. Cor. Forbes and Craig Sts. PSBBTdlWg, Pf.
ROLLER SKATING
Sci rin:
ATJDITOEIT71
BROAD ST. AND LARIMER AVE.
GRAND MASK CARNIVAL FEBRUARY 21ST.
~~L EE SIN Gs#
THE ONLY FmSTJ^LA^^
211 ATWOOD STREET
G-CTAEiilTTEES S ATISrACTIC IT
WHEN YOU ARE HUNGRY AND WANT A 
GOOD HUNGRY MAN S MEAI,, GO TO
The Cottage Restaurant
207 ATWOOD STREET 
$3.50 Meal Tickets for $3.00
The Tartan Board begs to acknowledge the re
ceipt of an interesting and humorous letter from 
Mr. H. P. Sullivan, which we are unable to print, 
owing to the bulk of matter for this issue.

---------------------------------------------------

14THE TARTAN
THE JUNIOR PROM.
The committee reports that all arrangements for 
the Junior Prom have been completed, and that the 
only thing remaining is the collection of the tax. 
An invitation will be given to each member of the 
Senior class, and if he cares to go he can see the 
nearest member of the committee in regard to the 
tickets. It is expected that each man take a girl, 
and that every member of the Junior class and as 
many as possible of the Seniors be present. Tickets 
should be procured as soon as possible in order that 
the committee may be saved the worry coincident 
with final preparations. The order of dances will 
be given out in a few days, and it will then be pos
sible to arrange dances some time before the Prom. 
This custom was followed to some extent last year, 
but the advantages were not seen until the eventful 
night. It is next to impossible to meet everybody 
so that one may engage dances then, and those 
who take care of this feature will find that consid
erable worry has been avoided.
---------o---------
SENIOR CLASS MEETING.
On Friday at 12.30 the Seniors were called to
gether for what was intended to be a short business 
session, but what proved to be one of the longest 
and hottest class meetings ever held by the Senior 
class. Some discussion was held regarding the pic
tures of .the Senior class to appear in the Thistles 
and a committee was appointed to investigate the 
matter. The progress of the Senior play was then 
reported on, and the next in order was the report of 
Mr. Hunt on the constitution of the student tribunal, 
which was read from beginning to end, and listened 
to attentively by the students. Mr. Niles, of the 
Civil section, who is a graduate of Stevens, where 
a body along similar lines is in power, was asked 
to give the Seniors some idea of the work of such a 
student function. Debate was then held on the ad
mission of the Industrial, or properly, the .School of 
Apprentices and Journeymen, to the Constitution. 
It was finally decided to confine the student tribunal 
to the Day School of Applied Science. The meeting 
closed after a busy session, lasting one hour and a 
half.
---------o---------
Rlarvard loses nine, Yale eight, and Princeton 
seven of the foot-ball players who appeared in big 
games last fall. Tad Jones and Dines, from Yale, 
and Starr and Newall, from Harvard, will be grad
uated this June, and the matter of filling their places 
will be a hard problem for the coaches next fall.* * * *
Little drops of whiskey,
Little drops of beer,
Make this mighty college,
Do things awful queer.
Harvard Lampoon.* * * *
Prof.Have I made myself plain, sir?
Disgruntled Soph.No, sir, God did that.Har
vard Lampoon.
IB- S^ITH
CUT FLOWERS
LATEST PATTERNS IN WALL PAPER 
PICTURE FRAMING 
114 Atwood St. Bet. 5th and Forbes
AFTER THE THEATRE
Dont forget to stop at
HOTEL ST. CLAIE
Cor. Penn Ave. and St. Clair St.
We have the finest equipped Radies and Gents Dining Room in E. E. Our specialties are Club Sandwiches and all kinds of Sea Food, for Banquet and Theatre Parties.
Phones 4070 Highland 9056 Highland
Schenley Farms
FIFTH AVE.BELLEFIELD AVE.
FINE RESIDENCE PROPERTY
For prices and terms apply
ROOM I4II FARMERS BANK BUILDING
SIRES JAPAN OIL
Superior to Linseed Oil for all kinds of Painting 
JAMES B. SIPE & CO.
Allegheny, Pa.
THE S. R. SMYTHE CO.,
PITTSBURGH, PA.,
Engineers and Contractors,
Rolling Mills, Steel Works,
Glass Works, Gas Producer
Plants, for Fuel and Power.
SANKEY BROS,
All Grades of RED BRICK
Office2112 CARSON STREET 
Both Phones. S. S.. PITTSBURG
James HayPresidentJohn F. ProvanManager
THE HAY PLUMBING CO.
Plumbing and Sanitary Engineers
Bell Phone 1910 Highland P. & A. Phone 971 East
5621 Penn Ave., Pittsburg, Pa.
Tech Students Receive Special Attention at
IHRIGS PHARMACY
3614 Fifth Avenue - - Near Forbes Street
A. N. MARTIN, Ph.G., Prop.
Bell 611-I, SchenleyTeas and Coffees a Specialty
JOHN KUEHNE
HOME DRESSED POULTRY 
OYSTERS IN SEASON 
FRESH BUTTER AND EGGS
127 OAKLAND AVE. PITTSBURQ, PA.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN15
ON THE SILENT ONE.
The well-known bearer of the Silent Murphy 
title was the victim of a huge, practical joke some 
little time ago, which was so humorous in its every 
detail that none can fail to be amused, and the 
victim, we believe, will be little disturbed by its 
publication.
Silent was informed that he had received a 
telephone call during one of his- periods of absence 
from the school, and was asked to call up at his 
earliest convenience a number which later proved 
to be the Highland Park Zoo, and ask for Miss 
Camel. Forthwith the Silent One called for the 
number in question, and it so happened that the 
telephone operator knowing the number he desired 
was the Zoo, connected him with the phone of a 
young lady acquaintance, who in turn got into the 
spirit of the joke and represented herself as the 
Miss Camel.
She had known his mother back in Howe 
Creek, in fact, was an intimate friend of the family; 
she said, she would just love to have him come 
out to the house to dinner, could he come the next 
Sunday? He replied that he would have to write 
home and apprise the family of his good fortune 
and could not accept until he heard from the folks, 
but how could he find the house? She answered: 
Why, you take a North Highland car, go the end 
of the line and walk up into the park and ask any 
one where the camels live and they will tell you. 
A few days after he received a telegram from 
home that read: Dont know Camels, dont call. 
We understand he did not heed the maternal 
advice, bnt boldly stalked up into Highland Park 
and had the camel residence pointed out to him. 
---------~.o---------
RADIUM AND THE ORIGIN OF LIFE.
Mr. John Butler Burke, of the Cavendish Labor
atory, Cambridge University, contributes to Harp
ers Weekly, a long article giving an account of 
his researches in certain radioactive phenomena. It 
is these researches which several weeks ago furn
ished the occasion of some sensational cablegrams, 
noted at the time in these colufnns, to the effect 
that the Cambridge experimenter had succeeded by 
means of radium in creating life. The article is 
polemical in tone, the author predicating possible 
objections to his conclusions and theories and then 
proceeding merrily to whack the presumptive (in 
both senses of the word) critics over the head. The 
nature of the experiments can be very briefly de
scribed. When a radium salt was introduced into 
highly sterilized bouillon specific nuclei developed 
after six or seven days, which later ceased to grow 
and then began to divide and multiply. The growth 
as pictured in illustrations is gradually from a single 
nucleus to a two or four-branched body, the several 
branches finally separating. The article discusses 
at length the probability of the growth being a form
Julian, Kennedy
Engineer pittsbung
S. DIESCHER & SONS
rOeSULnheG EeGheEERS
Iron & Steel Works, Rolling Mills, Manufacturing 
Plants and Engineering Structures 
Farmers Bank Bldg. Pittsburg, Pa.
Schlieper Engineering Co.
EtgStssWT ftd rutBWfcBuWT 
705-707 WABASH BUILDING PSBBTdlWg, PjEL.
Bell Phone 1057 Court
FOR EXPERTS EtgStssWT, AWcCSBscBT, 
OWflgCBTistExgsWBT uW SBldstBT
Should get acquainted with the resources of supply for all Drawing and Artists Materials offered by this house
KURTZ, LANGBEIN & SWARTZ,
6o6 Wuud SB., 6BC Avs.
W. S. BROWN
BASKET BALL
Balls, Goals, Shoes, Sweaters, all Athletic Goods and 
Fine Cutlery, Fire Arms, Ammunition and Sports
mans Outfits. Best Goods at Lowest Prices
523 Wuud SB., - - PSBBTdlWg, Pf.
Murdoch-Kerr Co.
PWStBsWT ftd PldbSTCsWT
Ample Facilities, Large Experience,
Satisfactory Service.
SBWfydsWWc ftd rCsWWc WfcT.
of crystalization or the result of imperfect terilization and the conclusion is finally presented that it is 
entitled to be classed among living things in the 
sense in which we use the term. Until Mr. Burke 
can bring forth the results of experiments which 
require less argumentation in their interpretation, 
we fear that most people will remain unconvinced 
that, with a few milligrammes of radium salt, the 
great mystery of the origin of life has finally been 
fathomed.American Electrician.
Said Atom unto Mole Oule,
Will you unite with me?
But Mole Cule did quick retort,
Theres no affinity 
Beneath the electric lights glare.
Poor Atom hoped to meter,
But she eloped with a rascal base,
And her name is now Saltpeter.Ex.

---------------------------------------------------

**0,,0,i*04,0*I,0*,04,0,*0,l*0,*0*,0,*0*,0,,0*I,0,*0*,0*,0
* B & B I
ovovovovovovovovovovovovovovovovovov  ___ o
gentlemen
a new crochet scarf
Larger mesh and altogether different from any so far produced.In reality, heavy strands of Silk crocheted so firmly the Scarf will retain its shapea scarf for smart dressers.New medium narrow Four-in-HandsBlack and all new plain shades, alsa panel effectscontrasting *strands woven to make panel or stripe  extremely $dressy50c.Other new Neckwear, 25c to $2.50. O
enTTr a edAp l
ovovovovovovovovovovovovovovovovovov
! P. Ludebuehl & Son I
 rUSnOM S
? FhnnheG EO SHOES 8
* 8 1 $5.00 S4.00 S3.50 %
8 *O PENN AND FRANKSTOWN AVES. %
R EfTB Etd &O *POPOPOPO PO PO PO POPOPOPOPOPOPOPOPOPOPO
ovovovovovovovovovovovovovovovovovov
TO STUDENTS OFCARNEGIE TECH SCHOOLS
o * 8 3We are headquarters for Banquets and parties O 
on North Side. Hotel Orchestra every eve  
from G to 11.30 oclock.
Give us a trial. We guarantee satisfaction.
*O*
HOTEL KNICKERBOCKER
Opposite Carnegie Music Hall (Allegheny). 
JOHN HUPERT, Manager.
HENRY HAGENAH, Proprietor.
Bell 2350 Cedar P. & A. 238 North 
VOVOVO.VOVOVOVOVOVOVOVOVOVOVOVOVOVOVO
OVOVOvOVOVOVOVOVOVOVOVOVOVOVOVOVOVOV
o<
f_.
/8?o*
THE RED DWARF INK PENCIL
A PENCIL THAT GIVES SATISFACTION
Carried in any position Does not leak Will not ink fingers Use any fluid ink
Best thing for taking notes Extra fine for ruling Especially good for manifolding Suit ible for sket h drawing Alw ys ready for 1st stroke Makes writing a pleasure Especially adapted for students, teachers and business men Dr. John A. Brashear writes:The Red Dwarf Ink Pencil has proven a veritable blessing to me. I would not exchange it for all the fountain pens I have ever had in my possession, and I have had quite a good many of them. It never fails me and I am using it constantly, rarely using a lead pencil now because it is so handy.
Two SizesPrice $2.50Guaranteed. Beware of Imitations
S. O. SINGER, Selling Agent 
Phone Grant 3488 339 Fifth Ave., Pittsburgvovovovovovovovovovovovovovovovovovo

o
?o?o*o?o?o*o%*o*
%Am01\ WA.SM$ mi
III each
o25 c.
Qc*j
^ ni h i i i il i il i m
3714 FORBES ST,OAKLAND. 
PITTSBURG.
All the New Spring Effects
*0
1 
*01
KO*o*o*o*vovovovovovovovovovovovovovovovovovo
ovovovovovovovovovovovovovovovovovov
I R. W. Medick I *% OAKLAND 'i
IATH ITRSAH Ig ?* rHOhrE HOME ORESSEOo ?
m DF,Wm n cesRWLS %
* oo 3804 FORBES ST. $
? Both Phones. oo %vovovovovovovovovovovovovovovovovovo
ovovovovovovovovovovovovovovovovovov
I Pi c!D rdsi gi IN stock I$ now I $15.00 I$15.00
I $40, $30, $30, $25, $20 STOCK 
HASTINGS & VOIGT 1a
Ogst EvstStgT H
 Phone 1939 Hiland. 6121 Penn Ave. ^vovovovovovovovovovovovovovovovovovo
OVOVOVOVOVOVOVOVOVOVOVOVOVOVOVOVOVOV
HAND TURNED
COLLARS
STEVENSON & FORBES STREETS
*oo?goo?01 IIBell Phone 2943 Grant P.&A.Phone 148 Main ovovovovovovovovovovovovovovovovovov
