SMU5NEMEEKLW5TUDEI1T5OF-THE
(AMEdlE-TEOIIIiaiMTOM
VOLUME VNOVEMBER 16, 1910 
PITTSBURG, PENNSYLVANIA
NUMBER 9

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
4^4-D4<4'$4<^4^4<i>4<>4<*K*4O4-C>4*04*O4'O4O4*O 
* t
Joseph Horne Co.
PENN AND FIFTH AVENUES.
T. & T.
(Meaning Techs and Tartans)
WHERE DO YOU BUY YOUR CLOTHES?
You boys and girls, who are so enthusiastic 
over the world renowned Tech School, do you 
ever come down our way to see what we have 
for you?
Some of you do, because we know a Tech 
smile, when we see it; but we want more of 
you to come to our store, especially to these 
departments:
THE SECTION FOR MISSES' CLOTHES.
THE SECTION FOR YOUTHS CLOTHES.
Theres every style that Fashion pronounces 
correct for young people.
The prices? Just such modest prices as 
youd expect to find attached to clothes that 
represent style and quality.
? EVERY TECHNICAL MAN *5* 4
will find the following papers of interest and ^ 
f value in his work.4*
 They will keep you posted on the latest de* velopments in your chosen profession. They ''f>
* will tell you what the leading engineers in your *
y line are doing. They will also keep you in- ^
4j formed of the openings in your profession
4 of opportunities for advancement throughout # 
 the field. *
 ELECTRICAL WORLDWeekly$3.00 a Year. *
* The foremost electrical journal of the *
5 world. Covers the entire electrical art and 
J industry. ^
* ENGINEERING RECORDWeekly$3 a Year. *
* Devoted to civil engineering and allied sub- y 
 jects. Covers municipal engineering, indus- 4|
* ..........................*
y plants, public works, etc.
J ELECTRICAL RAILWAY JOURNALWeekly
4> $3.00 a Year. ^*4*
trial engineering, railway, civil engineering, 4* 
bridge anu structural engineering, power *
The accepted authority in all branches of y
electric railway engineering.
* Write for Special Student Rates & Sample Copies y
J McGRAW PUBLISHING COMPANY J
' 239 West 39th Street - - - New York 4;
^ 4*4,\4,%4,%4,\4,\4,\4,N4,N4,N4,N4,N4,%4,\4\4,\4,\4,\4*^
*4**S1=
A COMPLETE LINE
Of
Drawing Instruments and Supplies 
Cameras and Photographic Supplies
* ^ Eyes Examined, Glasses Ground, Frames Fitted 
 I Wm. M. Stieren Optical Co. $4* r 4*
623 LIBERTY AVENUE *
f **x*%*%*x*%*x*x*x*x*x*x*x*x*x*x*x*x*x
\4-S4*%4\4=\4*\4\4-\4*\4*\4'%4'\4*\4*\4*N4*%4*%4-%4'
V ' ^v See us for your Class, School, Club and Fra- 4.<J>'*> ternity Pins 
* HEEREN BROS. & CO. J
^ Penn Avenue and Eighth Street 'W>
O We make and sell the Official Tech Pins %4x*x*x*%*x*x*x*x*x*x***%*x*x*x*x*x*x*
4^X4^^4-0%4*0%4-0\40\4:^4:>\4*0\4<^4-v\4'V%
IDc "SToul
that we print more books than any firmin the East End ?.......................................IDo "2o-u. Sno-wr
that our Programs, Topic Cards and Leaflets elicit the admiration oflovers of FinePrinting?......................................................JDo "Z'o-o. "Wthat we are prompt, and that an order for a dollar receives as much care and attention as one for a hundred dollars? . 
If you are fastidious, if you require prompt and efficient service, come to .
SPAHE <Sc. HITSCHEE,
6117-6119 Kirkwood Street 
Mr. H. J. McCorkle, Mgr., Tartan, is our representative at Tech.
Bell Phones86 and 9216 Hiland
o
*01
dI
I
0*
1  
1 O Bell Phones86 and 9216 Hiland  8
g OAKLAND BUTTER MARKET /
Dealers in XBUTTER, EGGS. POULTRY, CHEESE, TEA. COFFEE B AND CANNED GOODS 
3714 FORBES STREET 5S Bell Phone 710 Schenley y
XXXXXXXXX^XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXKXXXXX
x*x*x*x*x*x*x*x*x*x*x*x*x*x*x*x*x*x* v yS Quality the Best Prices Moderate *
? Bellfield Restaurant and Lunch Room *
y Corner Craig and Forbes Streets
* PITTSBURGH, PA. *
* SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS }
x*x*x*x*x*x*x*x*x*x*x*x*x*x*x*x*x*xt
xxxxx%xxxxxxxx\xxxxxwxxxxx\%%%s%\x% 
KURTZ, LANGBEIN & SWARTZ
0 Are now iu their new building, S3S Wood Street4*0 Stationery, Engraving, Artists Materials
O 4Draughtmens and Engineers Supplies

---------------------------------------------------

x*t%\tt
PITTSBURGH, PA., WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1910No. 9VOL. V
TECH LOSES TO LEHIGH
Carnegie Team Plays Plucky Ball but Are Unable 
to Stop Cox.
On Saturday, November 12, Techs light team was 
defeated by Lehigh on the latters field. The final 
score was 250. The defeat was due, as it was last 
year, to Cox. The big fellow played the 
full back  position in the second and
fourth quarters, during which periods Le
high scored all of her points. In the first and third 
quarters the game was very even, neither team hav
ing any appreciable advantage. Flick, of last years 
Tech team, played half for Lehigh and contributed 
one run of 25 yards. Dyer, Schmucker and Blanchard 
made several good gains for Tech. Schmucker also 
punted well. However, Kesselmans tackling was 
by far the feature of the game. The little end downed 
Cox time and time again. Dyer also tackled well.
The work of the officials was very poor all through 
the game and caused not a little comment.
Neither team was able to gain consistently in the 
first period, and kicking was resorted to frequently. 
In the second quarter, Lehigh changed her back field 
throughout. . Lehigh secured the ball in the center 
of the field, and Cox carried it over the goal line on 
three line plunges. After Schmucker kicked off to 
Price, Lehighs heavy line made holes large enough 
to let Cox through for runs of from 5 to 15 yards. 
However, on the 15-yard line, Tech held and Lehigh 
was forced to kick. Price dropkicked a pretty field 
goal from the 25-yard line.
In the third period Cox was taken out of the game. 
In this period the playing was very even, and no 
score was made. At one time Tech forced Lehigh to 
surrender the ball on Techs 1-yard line. Schmucker
punted from behind the goal line, but the ball struck 
the goal post and rolled to the 15-yard line where 
Rouse fell upon it. Lehigh carried it back 10 yards 
in two plays, but the Plaid line braced again and 
took the ball from their heavier opponents.
In the fourth period, Cox re-entered the game and 
at once proceeded to tear up Techs line. He also 
made several pretty gains skirting tackle. These 
gains assisted by several runs by Rouse from for
ward passes, carried the ball to the 5-yard line. From 
there, Cox carried it over. R. Wood kicked goal. 
Schmucker kicked off to Dunn on the 25-yard line. 
Price, Dunn and Cox carried the ball, mainly through 
the holes opened by Black, Harwig and Wylie, to the 
25-yard line. Price attempted a forward pass to 
Rhefuss, but a Tech man touched it and the ball 
rolled over the goal line. Wagner fell upon it there 
for the last touchdown. There was some discussion 
as to whether or not the ball had been passed over 
the line. Captain Hatchers claim for a touchback 
was overruled by the referee. R. Wood failed at goal.
js.esseima.il .........
Weaver ....................... . .L. T............................... Reese
Moorhead ......................L. G............................. Bayless
........C.................................. Wylie
. ..R. G....
Roessner ............ . .R. T....
...R. E....
.....Q................ C. Wood
...L. H....
Newbrand ........... . .R. H.........F......
TouchdownsCox3, Wagner.Goals from touchdown4^ Wood 2. Coal from fieldPrice. Referee 
Hamilton of Bowdoin. UmpireDunbar. Head 
LinesmanHerd of Lehigh. Field JudgeBilheimer

---------------------------------------------------

4THE TARTAN
of Lehigh. Tim of quarters14 minutes. Substitu
tionsHatcher for Taylor, Taylor for Schmucker, 
Mandeville for Taylor, Wagner for Rouse, OGorman 
for Bayless, Goldberg for OGorman, Rhefuss for R. 
Wood, Downs for Wylie, Price for C. Wood, Dunn for 
Cann, Rheinhart for Dunn. Flick for Knox, Cox for 
Coyne.
GREAT CONFLAGRATION!
Valiant Volunteers Rescue the Gymnasium from the 
Flames. Thrilling Scenes Enacted.
It was on the night of November 14th. The wind 
howled dismally over the waste places, carrying a 
blinding storm of snow and sleet into the face of any 
poor wayfarer who might have the temerity to brave 
the wild elements. Inside the fires burned brightly. 
A small bunch of chattering students cuddled around 
the big open fire-place where natural gas, mixed 
with 75 per cent air, burned its way into dividends 
ala Rockefeller. Ah, twas an awful night! Heaven 
protect the poor park policeman on a night like this! 
The clock was tolling the hour of 7 come 11. The 
small party gathered closer to the singing gas-consumer. No one said a word. There was nothing to 
say. Wh-r-rr!! Wh-z-zz!!! The wind tore madly past 
carrying terror and atmosphere in its wake. Twas 
just the night for deep, dark deeds. Men have died 
on such a night. Women have dyed also. But 
listen! Likewise harken! What is that awful cry? 
A shrill, silvery, shriek of terror bites its way into 
the clamor of the raging storm. The company springs 
to its feet. Faces blanche and hearts stop beating 
before that awful scream. Suddenly the door flies 
open. A man stumbles in, covered with snow and 
excitement. The gyms on fire! Help! hel-up!! 
The clarion summons rings out and he is gone to tell 
the awful news at the next house. Did the brave 
Techites hesitate? Not long enough to place a 
scarf pin. In a second the brave sons of Woodlawn 
and Sigma Tau had gathered up pails, pitchers and 
hosiery and plunged desperately into the night. In 
less time than it takes to cut a lecture the courageous 
volunteer firemen were on the scene of action and 
were pouring city water and exclamations upon a 
piece of smoking timber in the floor of the gym
nasium. The hope of Tech was saved!
The awful conflagration was started by the sup
ports of the main heater becoming overheated and 
scorching a distressingly large black spot in the floor. 
A distinct odor of smoke pervaded the building and 
Caretaker Hull doesnt use tobacco. Thus there is 
no doubt whatsoever but 'that there was a fire. The 
lion-hearted lads who came to the rescue cannot be 
too highly praised. Seme of them went to such 
lengths as to stop in the midst of a game of sevenup in order to answer the call of duty. Mr. Hull is 
to be congratulated on the keenness of his sense of 
smell. The thing might have ended seriously had it 
not have been discovered in time*
The Tartan is able to publish the above full and 
unexpurgated account of the affair owing to the
presence (in negligee, tis true) of its athletic editor 
upon the field of action. Rah for Tech! Subscribe 
for the Bingville Bugle!
A FEMININE FIRE COMPANY.
?Wellesley College has a fire department. Miss 
Mary Sawyer, the chief, stands six feet tall without 
French heels. The brigade has proven heroically 
efficient in all the fire-drills which are held semioccasionally and but awaits the agonizing call of real 
duty to demonstrate its spirit of Do or die. The 
girls do everything that a regular fireman could do 
that is, except climb ladders and chop up burning 
roofs. But then, one cant expect too much at first.
WEST VIRGINIA PLAYER KILLED.
The victory of the University of West Virginia 
over Bethany College last Saturday was inexpressably saddened by the injury and subsequent death 
of Rudolph Munk, captain of the University team. 
The dead man had played a brilliant game all 
through the season at quarterback and halfback and 
was keeping up to his brilliant record when the acci
dent occurred which put him out of the play. Every
thing which could be done for him died at 8:45 
final quarter. After an unusually fierce scrimmage, 
Munk was found lying unconscious upon the field. 
He was hurried to the hospital but in spite of every
thing which could be done for him he died at 8:45 
Saturday night. His brain had been injured, which 
was probably the cause of his death. Munk was a 
graduate of Connellsville High School and has played 
two years on the West Virginia team. Out of re
spect to her lost leader West Virginia will not com
plete her schedule this year.
TECH-PITT NIGHT.
Tech-Pitt Night will be celebrated next Saturday 
evening when the Carnegie Tech and University of 
Pittsburgh football teams will hold places of honor 
at the Alvin Theater. Boxes will be provided for 
the teams through the kindness of the Alvin Theater 
management and a big evening is anticipated. Lew 
Fields production of the Midnight Sons is the bill 
and there is no doubt but that the big New York 
show will be at its best. A big crowd of Tech and 
Pitt rooters will be scattered through the house and 
a friendly contest of cheering and rooting will en
liven things. Every Tech man who can do so should 
be on hand to help give the players the ovation 
which they deserve.
Do these Englishmen understand American 
slang?
Some of them do. Why?
My daughter is to be married in London, and the 
duke has cabled me to come across.
Well?
Does he mean me or my wad?Courier-Journal.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN5
MHO CLUB.
The second meeting of the year for the Mho Club 
was held Wednesday evening, November 9, in Room 
121, A. S. Building. The first business to be car
ried through was the voting into membership of the 
members of the Sophomore Class pursuing the regu
lar electrical course. The turnout of Sophomores 
was small, due to the fact that they were scheduled 
for several tests the following day. After several 
other matters of importance had been disposed of 
the speaker of the evening, Dr. A. G. Allyn, was 
introduced by Vice President Porter, who conducted 
the meeting on account of the Presidents absence. 
Dr. Allyn was particularly welcomed, due to the fact 
that he was one of the first instructors at Tech. 
During the first year of the School he was an in
structor in Physics in the night school and later 
gave a series of lectures under the auspices of the 
Schools. His talk for the evening was on Photo
graphic Processes. Dr. Allyn has made quite an 
extensive study of this subject and has done consid
erable traveling in the interest of his art. In his 
talk he brought out the fact that there is more to be 
had out of photography with the use of a little judg
ment and study than is usually thought. Starting 
with the motive for the picture the reproduction was 
carried through the different processes of arrange
ment of views, position of object of interest and 
exposure up to the mechanical part of making the 
picture itself. This latter part was well shown by 
practical development work on the lecture table. 
The entire lecture was well illustrated with lantern 
slides showing the application of the different points 
brought out. Taken as a whole the lecture was in
tensely practical as well as interesting, and all those 
present considered themselves indebted to the Doc
tor.
The club had as its guests several members of the 
illustrating class of the School of Applied Design, 
w'ho were interested in the lecture because it follows 
along the line of their studies. A luncheon was 
served afterwards by the committee and all left at 
a late hour, declaring themselves well pleased with 
the evenings entertainment.
The next monthly meeting will be held a week 
earlier than usual. Owing to the fact that the 
monthly tests are held the same week as the club 
meetings, thus making it difficult for all members 
to attend, it was thought best to move the meeting 
up a week and hold it the first Wednesday of the 
month instead of the second. This will bring the 
next meeting on December 7. A new feature has 
been arranged for this meeting in the form of a 
debate between four members of the club. The
subject has not yet been announced, but a stirring 
debate can be expected, as the interest in the affair 
is running high.
R. J. Bryan, Secy.
NIGHT DRAUGHTSMENS CLUB.
Night classes in Drafting met last Thursday in 
the Club Rooms of the School of Applied Industries 
and organized the Night Draughtsmens Club. The 
following students were elected to hold office: Pres
ident, Lloyd; vice president, Butler; secretary, 
Schoeman; treasurer, Kerbride; Tartan representa
tive, Low.
Judging from the enthusiasm shown by those 
present, the success of the club is assured. It did 
not take the new men long to get acquainted and 
by the time the ballots were cast everyone felt right 
at home. While the ballots were being counted a 
quartet was  formed which gave several numbers, 
among which was that song that has never been 
answered, entitled: I Wonder Whos Kissing Her 
Now? This number was beautifully and touch
ingly rendered. As basket-ball seemed to be the 
favorite sport of most of those present, it was de
cided to organize a team. The first practice for 
those who wish to try for the team will be held 
just as soon as a time can be arranged, after the 
new Gym is opened.. There is an abundance of 
good material in the Mght Classes and a good team 
is assured.
The first regular meeting of the club will be held 
next Thursday in the Club Rooms of the School of 
A. I. at 9.30 P. M.
GAMMA KAPPA HOLDS SMOKER.
A very pleasant event was the smoker held by the 
Gamma Kappa Club at the club house on Dithridge 
street Monday evening, November 7. Thirty men 
were present and the hours were enjoyably spent in 
card-playing and social conversation. Among the 
guests were numbered Professors Doyle, Hower and 
Work, Dr. Orbin, Coach Dowling, Mr. McCulloch and 
Chuck Charles. Between smokes Dr. Orbin and 
Mr. McCulloch coaxed rare melodies from the piano 
while the fellows joined in with the latest songs. At 
a late hour refreshments were served while all 
through the evening a large keg of cider, which was 
on tap, received generous attention.
The Man Who Asks Questions: I saw Farmer
Browns prize Durham chasing you across the field 
the other day. How did you find the sensation?
The Man Who Answers ThemBully.
BIG BASKET BALL BENEFIT I
CONCERT AND DANCE *
Tech Gymnasium 8 P. M. Monday Evening, Nov. 21st Get into the Band-Wagon! *
*

---------------------------------------------------

THE T
TH ED TA RTAN
Published Weekly During the School Year by 
Students of Carnegie Technical Schools, Pitts
burgh, Pennsylvania
EDITORIAL BOARD.
James K. Lamoree, 12.............Editor-in-Chief
Donald D. Mitchell, 12..........Associate Editor
John H. Clements, 13.................Athletic Editor
Helen M. Baglin, 11, M. M. C. S., Assoc. Editor 
Florence A. Flinn, 11, M.M.C.S., Assist Editor 
Horace P. Smith, 13.................Assistant Editor
H. J. McCorkle, 11.................Business Manager
C. C. Hixenbaugh, 12... .Advertising Manager
Subscription Rates
Yearly .....................................................................$2.00
Single Copy.....................................................10 Cents
Student Rates
Yearly .....................................................................$1.00
Single Copy.......................................................5 Cents
For Advertising Rates, address the Business Manager, care 
Carnegie Technical Schools
ARE TECHNICAL STUDENTS IGNORANT?
Discussion has been going on through the columns 
of one of the Eastern college papers upon the sub
ject of the relation and attitude of technical students 
towards economics, politics, and knowledge of prac
tical ethics. Both sides of the question have been 
defended by students in the academic and technical 
courses of the college and a spirited debate has fol
lowed.
Carnegie Tech is one of the countrys foremost 
technical schools and as such is particularly inter
ested in questions which, tend to impeach the public
spiritedness and general knowledge of the technical 
student. The following are the accusations and 
criticisms which were leveled at the technical col
lege man. The article is headed Technical Students 
Ignorant:
 . . . Technical students__are so ignorant
of the fundamental ideal of practical ethics 
as to be almost useless to society.
The technical student.. .comes to college 
principally to obtain direct preparation for 
lucrative employment. Outside of his 
specific line of work he has but slight in
tellectual interests. His ideal is always to 
see how much he can get out of life, seldom 
how much he can put into it.
The great problems of humanity, the politi
cal crises which constantly arise, the in 
sistent call for men who place character 
above cash and will sacrifice self for the ad
vancement of society, find little response in 
the minds of the average tech man........
The very statements of technical men that 
they did not frequent the library because the 
tech books there were not what they wanted 
....prove that the tech man is a distinctly 
one-sided creature. Apparently, to him the 
great works of literature have no appeal, and 
the really worth while magazines no attrac
tion.
A college education is supposed to be a 
liberal education, but if it fails to broaden 
the mind, fails to fit a man to go out and be
come a leader among men, narrows men to 
such an extent that they can see nothing be
yond cause, for ridicule in the man who is so 
preparing, then the technical college course 
fails to accomplish more than the technical 
correspondence or trade school.
The statement is clear. Is it true? The Tartan 
would like to hear from its readers upon the sub
ject. Can you defend yourselves by showing where 
the article quoted above is wrong? We solicit your 
views and will print communications. Sign your 
letter with full name which will be withheld upon 
your request. Come out and let us have the tech
nical mans side of the question.
RTAN
ASSISTANT EDITORS.
The Tartan is desirous of adding three new as
sistants to its editorial board. The work is congenial 
and takes up very little of a fellows time. It is an 
excellent chance for a man to do something for his 
school. In order to give everyone an opportunity to 
show what he can do, the Tartan Board will choose 
the new assistants by the merit of the work they 
hand in. During the next two weeks, any man who 
is a candidate must hand in some article of news, 
letter to the Editor commenting upon school hap
penings, jokes or bits of verse, signing his name 
and stating that he is a candidate. No mans name 
will be used in connection with any article we use un
less he requests it. The men having done the best 
work will be given the positions. It is the wish of the 
Tartan board to choose one assistant from each 
school: Applied Science, Applied Design and Applied 
Industries. This will be done unless the interest 
shown does not warrant it.
Under the heading of news items will be considered 
anything which happens about the Schoolsclub 
meetings, parties, class affairs, etc. In selecting the 
men, the Board will consider originality, expression 
and grammar as well as the way in which the article 
is written up.
We would like to see a large number of the men 
try for the positions open. Every man who has a 
nose for news and is interested in writing has a 
chance. Everyone will be given a square deal and 
papers will be judged entirely according to emrit.
Get busy and show what you can do.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN7
1 he Tech-Pitt game is just three days away and 
the time has come for action. The football team is 
working with might and main to perfect the machine 
which will face the heavy Pitt team next Saturday. 
The game at Lehigh, while disastrous as to score, 
was a big lesson to our boys and the pointers gained 
by the clash at South Bethlehem will go far towards 
aiding the coaches to patch up the weak spots and 
to perfect some new plays which will catch our op
ponents sleeping.
The Pitt game will be the last game of the season 
for Tech and our team will be at its best. While 
our coaches are making no assertions regarding our 
chances, there is not the least doubt but that our 
players will go into the contest primed with fight
ing spirit and determined to do the very best that 
is in them. Now how about the rooters?
In every contest on Tech field this year and at W.
& J. the Carnegie rooters have turned out in large 
numbers and have been a credit to Tech. Next Sat
urdays game is the climax of the season. The 
coaches and players are making a grand, united ef
fort to win or at least hold Pitt to a low score. It is 
up to the rooters to enter into this spirit of victory and 
make a demonstration which will be a fitting ending 
to the season of boosting and student loyalty which 
we have enjoyed. Every man in the school must 
turn out. Our work is cut out for us and no one 
must hesitate. Let us stand united in our de
termination to stick by the team until the end. Go 
over to Forbes Field and give a true exhibition of 
the kind of support Carnegie men give their team. 
Then we will at least have the satisfaction of know
ing that, win or lose, we have done our best.
THE PITT GAME.
THAT BASKET BALL BENEFIT.
All plans for the big benefit concert and dance to 
be held in the new gym have been perfected and the 
committee in charge is waiting impatiently for Mon
day the 21st to roll around. The party will be 
chaperoned by Prof. and Mrs. Work, Miss Stoner 
and several other members of the M. M. C. S. faculty. 
Dean West of the M. M. C. S. will probably be pres
ent if satisfactory arrangements can be made.
The concert will be a splendid entertainment and 
will alone be worth the price of admission. Come 
whether you dance or not. Help the good cause 
along. Boost.
A Sicilian lad from Bermuda 
Made onions his one daily fooda;
When asked if the smell 
Ever made him unwell,
He replied that as the vegetable in question had 
been his sole daily diet for some time the odor had 
long ago ceased to have any ill effect upon his phy
sical well-being.
j M. M. C. S. |
The wintry west extends his blast,
And hail and rain does blaw;
Or the stormy north sends driving forth 
The blinding sleet and snaw:
Wild-tumbling brown, the burn comes down,
And roars frae bank to brae:
While bird and beast in covert rest,
And pass the heartless day.
Robert Burns.
Instead of having the regular choral practice on 
last Tuesday afternoon, the M. M. C. S. girls had 
the pleasure of hearing a talk on music by Mr. Ash
ton Johnston, of England.
Mr. Johnstons talk was made doubly interesting 
by several selections. In his lecture he told what 
music is, showed the romantic influence that lit
erature has upon it, and gave an interesting account 
of the pageant held to honor the memory of MacDowel, the great American composer.
The evident enthusiasm of the speaker and his 
apparent enjoyment of his subject added to the in
terest of his listeners, who gave vent to many ex
pressions of appreciation.
The girls owe a vote of thanks to the one who 
was instrumental in providing such a pleasant 
change from the weeks routine; and also, to Mr. 
Johnston himself. Let us all hope that his first visit 
has not been the last.
NOTICE.
Regulations Regarding Sale of Tickets for Tech-Pitt
Football Game to be Held on Forbes Field Nov. 19,
1910.
The Carnegie Tech rooting sections are Sections 1 
in both first floor and balcony of the grand stand. 
Seven hundred first floor seats and 200 balcony seats 
have been reserved. These seats are opposite center 
of football field.
Students holding season tickets may obtain one 
grand stand ticket in exchange for coupon No. 6 and 
twenty-five cents.
Alumni may obtain tickets for rooting sections for 
75 cents.
Tickets will be on sale at Room 12 in the Applied 
Industries Bldg at following hours during this week: 
From 11:30 A. M. to 1:30 P. M.
From 4:30 P. M. to 5:30 P. M.
From 9:00 P. M. to 10:30 P. M.
Tickets for Alumni will be on sale at the Alumni
meeting at the Fort Pitt Friday evening.
No tickets will be issued to students unless the red 
coupon No. 6 is presented. This rule will not be 
broken under any consideration.
If you wish good seats make your reservations at 
once. D. M. Scott, Mgr.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON
PENN AND FRANKSTOWN AVENUES EAST END
SHOES
SEE THE NEW TOE KID DO 
Made up in Heavy Fall and Winter Tan Button and Bluclier 
SEE OUR FOUR SHOW WINDOWS EOR THE FALL STYLES
SJS3MSJ3EM3J3JaiEiSM5J5ISiSISJ3M3J3ElB3EJ5JSleMSSll!l
I PERTINENT AND IMPERTINENT j
icjjgjg^jgiggjiygigjgjgjgjg^jgigigjggjSISISJSIBJBlEJBJSJBJSJBISlBJBJSj
The time is near at hand for the greatest display of 
Tech spirit yet put forth. Get into the game next 
Saturday, rooters, and make Forbes Field shake. 
Lets show the University some real rooting.
Our progressive contemporary from Baltimore, 
Md., should give credit for jokes clipped from ex
changes.
Have you asked her to go to the Basketball Benefit 
yet? Dont put it off too long. Delays are dan
gerous.
The annual football gaine of the Engine-wipers vs. 
Bottle-washers will soon take place. Both teams are 
practicing regularly.
Since the Duquesne Gardens have opened, some of 
the Tech men are discovering a tendency towards 
roller skating. Beware! Its bad medicine.
Tater Quinlan has a great deal of difficulty in 
getting the finer points of geometry and trigonometry 
straightened out to his own satisfaction. But then, 
many a great man has felt the same misgivings re
garding the subjects in question.
Wis., is planning to make a trip to the- Isthmus of 
Panama.
Our alumni are spreading out over the continent. 
Word has just been received from H. W. Gottfried, 
10 Elect., who was recently graduated from the Ap
plied Science Night School. He is making good at 
his chosen work in Mexico City, Mexico.
The General Electric Co., at Pittsfield, Mass., is 
finding John C. Roe, 10, Industries, a valuable ac
quisition. He has received several promotions dur
ing his short stay with the company.
Harry T. Young, 09 Industries, who was formerly 
employed by the Gulick-Henderson Co., as inspecting 
engineer, has resigned to take a better position with 
the Standard Steel Car Co., at Hammond, Ind. He is 
working in the purchasing department and is one 
of Techs most successful alumni.
I. K. Slingerland, 10 Industries, who was one of 
the most active members of the Aero Club while in 
school, is putting to good use the knowledge he 
gained while in Tech. He is at present situated in 
New York City where he is running an aeronautic 
supply store.
J. L. Elliott, Q9 Civil, has resigned his position as 
assistant to the county engineer of Washington coun
ty. He has accepted more lucrative employment 
with the Bell Telephone Co. He is employed in the 
designing department.
ALUMNI NOTES.
Lynn E. Exline, 09, Civil, has resigned his posi
tion with the Missouri Pacific R. R., to take up a 
better one with the Hodges and Downey Construc
tion Co. Mr. Exline is Superintendent of Excavation 
at Snow Lake, Ark.
F. E. Foster, 08, Met., first Editor-in-Chief of the 
Tartan, has left the Panama Canal Zone for Van
couver, B. C. He expects to enter the Alaskan goldfields at the first opening in the spring.
Sidney M. Ciecel, 08, Civil, who is now employed 
by the Pittsburgh Testing Laboratories at Milwaukee,
VOLUME NBBR1EN6ERM U,,6EM90
The Alumni Association of the Applied Science 
and Design Schools hold a smoker Friday evening, 
November 18th, at the Fort Pitt Hotel. Men promi
nent in school affairs will speak and a rousing meet
ing is expected. The smoker will be the first time 
this year that the Association has gotten together 
and every Alumus should get out to help things 
along.
A large gray skull cap, short visor type, with an 
orange button, is the official Freshman cap at Oberlin.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANy
Jas. J. jFallnery President. ,m ,m Boothy Vice-President. J. G. Pnwy 2d Vice-Pres. and Sec'y
C. B. ArFnswoethy Treasurer.
RESOURCES OVER ONE AND ONE HALF MILLION DOLLARS. DEPOSITS OVER ONE MIL
LION DOLLARS. CAPITAL AND SURPLUS OVER THREE HUNDRED AND SIXTY THOUS
AND DOLLARS. A BANK THAT IS STRONG IN ASSETS, IN MEN, IN COURTESY.
OAKLAND SAVINGS AND TRUST COMPANY
IROQUOIS BLOCK.
TECH PEE-RADE.
The last game of the Tech football season will 
be marked by a great cheering duel between the Pitt 
students and ourselves. Pitt rooters say that they 
are going to outdo us at every turn.
The management has arranged for a monster Tech 
parade. The rooters are asked to gather in front 
of the School of Applied Industries at two oclock to 
form in line. The line will be headed by the band 
and will march over to Forbes Field by way of Oak
land. This is the time to show your appreciation of 
the men who have been playing against great odds 
throughout the season for the honor of the Schools. 
Remember that it is your team and your school. Get 
out early and march to the game. Join the crowd 
and get the spirit.
APPLIED INDUSTRIES.
Industrial Basket Ball Team.
Basket-ball will soon be the ruling sport and the 
' School of Applied Industries does not intend to take 
a second place in inter-school athletics. The Indus
tries basket-ball team is being organized and looks 
very promising. Games are being scheduled with 
high schools and preparatory schools in this vicinity 
as well as with the other schools and clubs in Tech. 
There is plenty of material from which to select and 
every man who is not out for the Varsity should 
get into the game for the Industries School.,
Our school has always held an enviable place in 
school athletics heretofore. It is up to every tradeschool man to help keep up this excellent reputation. 
Time of practice, etc., will be posted on the bulletin 
board.
New Emery-Wheel in Foundry.
A new emery-wheel, manufactured by the Bridge
port Safety Emery-Wheel Co., of Bridgeport, Conn., 
has been recently installed in the Foundry. The 
wheel will be used for cleaning and grinding cast
ings.
Second Year.
A recent discussion in the Machine Shop as to 
whether a horse pulls or pushes a load resulted in
the creation of some entirely original arguments. 
It is wonderful how many sides there really are to 
a simple question when one starts in to pick it apart.
A couple of girls took Bill Connelly for a, prof. the 
other day. That is what comes of wearing a min
isterial look.
The elevation of Gousha to the Editor-in-Chiefship 
of the Thistle did not make any impression upon his 
appreciation of a good joke.
PLEBES 10INDUSTRIALS 0.
On Saturday morning the Plebes won from the 
team representing the School of Applied Industries 
by a score of 10 to 0. Although the field was wet 
and fumbles were frequent, the game was fast and 
interesting. The Industrials gained well during the 
first half, but could not get within striking distance 
of the Plebes goal line. In the third quarter, Brine 
picked up a fumble and ran 50 yards for a touch
down. This was the feature play of the game. When 
the time was almost up in the last quarter, Acheson 
made a pretty forward pass to McGill on the 50-yard 
line and the latter had no trouble in carrying it over 
the line.
. Plebes. Industrials.
Lewis-McKusick ...........L. E.......................... Humphrey
Schenfelt .........................L. T...................... White-Vonn
French ..............................L. G................................... Veder
Maddison .............................C..................................... Wilson
Monroe1.............................R. G.................................. Hilger
McCrory ...........................R. T................................. Heckel
McGill ...............................R. E.................................. Powell
Brine ....................................Q.............................. Southerin
Acheson ...........................L. H....................... Vonn-White
Fiske.................................R. H................................. Lutton
Oakes ..................................F........................................ Buck
TouchdownsBrine, McGill. Referee  Traver. 
UmpireHull. Head LinesmanClements. Timer
Daugherty. Time of quarters8 minutes.
IN PHYSICS.
First MechanicalWhy was young Noyes thrown 
out of the heat lecture?
Second MechanicalHe tried to make light of 
it.

---------------------------------------------------

10THE TARTAN
Forbes and Atwood Sts.Oakland
^rve' Best store
Mens Kid Gloves special $1.00 a Pair.
Mens Fall and Winter Weight Union Suits 
(Superior Make) $1.00, $1.50 to $3.00 a Suit.
Onyx Brand Silk Hosiery for Men, Black and all 
Colors, 50c a pair.
*4*4*?4**?*4**A*/*?**
*>*4*s&
SOPHOMORES.
During the past week the Mechanicals and Metal
lurgists have organized football teams and from all 
indications, there is going to be some fuss, the 
day of the conflict.
Considerable comment has been made by the stu
dent body about the lack of excitement contributed 
by Carnegie Tech on Thanksgiving Day. Why not 
arrange a football game between the Sophomores and 
Plebes for Thanksgiving morning. Each class has a 
number of men either on the Varsity or Scrub teams, 
and with these men as a nucleus, teams could be 
built which would make quite an argument, and 
which would furnish quite a little excitement. How 
about it, Plebes?
Fink, in GermanThe electric cell consists of a 
raisin cake. Is that the reason for so many fellows 
taking electrical?
Just about a week more for those caps, Plebes. Be 
sports.
SLIGHT ERROR.
Bartender (severely)Young man, are you a 
minor?
Sophomore (innocently)Oh no, sir. I am a 
Metallurgist.
*4**4**4**4**4-
GEO. L. SIOPP CO.
Drawing Instruments and Material
Students Note Books and a large assortment of 
Loose Leaf Binders. Repairing, Artistss Ma
terials
STATIONERYENGRAVINGEMBOSSING 
704 Smithfield Street Pittsburgh, Pa.
*4**o**4-*4*
4*VS*\4*\4*\4-V!*V!*V&\4'V!*\4'VfrN4'\4'\4*S4-\4-\4*\
*THE SCHENLEY FARMS 
The Garden Spot of Pittsburgh
The place to live for convenience, pleasure and $
4*4*44**4-4*4*4*
Bell Phone
DRESS SUIT RENTAL CO.
523 Pittsburg Life Building 
liberty Ave. and Sixth St., Pittsburg, Pa.
We have for rental Full Dress Suits, Tuxedos. Prince Alberts, White Vests, Opera Hats.
MacDonalds
Candies and Ice Cream Soda ..Dainty Lunch 
Tables for Ice CreamFancy BoxesBaskets 
Favors, Etc.
208 SIXTH STREET PITTSBURGH, PA.
THE NON-FUSSERS MOTTO.MASS MEETING.
Some fancy the lassies athletic 
Who run, dive, and swim like a breeze;
Some care for the brand which is social, 
And feeds upon five oclock teas;
Some like Brat and Somerset fair ones, 
Their ten-below-freezing-point stare;
While another, frequenting the chorus, 
Has picked out his only one there.
Some pairs like to pore over Browning 
In the shade of the old apple tree; 
But, by golly, the girl on the dollar 
Is the one that goes twosing with me.
Harvard Lampoon.
A mass meeting of all the schools is scheduled for 
Friday afternoon, November 18th, at 4:00 oclock in 
the Applied Science building. The students will be 
addressed by men prominent in athletics in the 
Schools, songs will be sung and cheers will be prac
ticed. As this meeting will be the last chance the 
fellows will have to get together before the big game, 
every man in Tech should be there. Good rooting 
will be a big asset in the contest and Carnegie men 
must keep up the good reputation which they possess. 
Get out and show your enthusiasm.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN11
INTERCOLLEGIATES.
-S.
At Cornel] the students have an annual hare and 
hound race in which two students leave a trail of 
paper for the others to follow. The idea is to bring 
out the cross country men.
The faculty of Colorado University has returned 
the petition for publishing a tri-weekly paper.
Swimming and boating have been made regular 
athletic activities for women at Stanford.
One of the professors of Berlin University told an 
American professor that the American attendance 
in foreign schools was falling off because they could 
get the same work at home and did not have to go 
abroad for it .
The Kappa Kappa Gamma soroity at Kansas Uni
versity is discussing the plans for a new $25,000 
chapter house.
The Junior Class at Rutgers recently passed a res
olution in favor of varsity basketball. They ex
pect that the other classes will follow their example, 
and that those in control of athletics will comply 
with the request, in view of the decided trend of 
student opinion in favor of this plan.
Freshmen were victorious in the color rush at W. 
and J. last week.
At Brown University grandstands are inspected 
by the city authorities before each game.
The Navy foot-baii squad contains five captains: 
King, captain of the foot-ball team; Laftin, captain 
of the eight-oared crew; Edwin, captain of the base
ball team; Carey, captain of the track team; and 
Scott, captain of the fencing team.
Under a new rule, no undergraduate at Cornell 
can have the letter C in his pipe unless it has 
been earned as a member of a Varsity team.
Lady (on Pullman)-Boy! where are the porters 
quarters on this train?
Candy KidIn the passengers pockets yet, Miss.
Case Tech.
I suppose you have read of the danger in kiss
ing, he remarked.
I have, she replied, but I come of a family 
noted for courage.Ex.
School girls were created before mirrors and have 
been before them ever since.Ex.
Get your class fobs either nickel, silver or gold, 
any year, at the SCHENLEY LUNCH, Craig and 
Forbes.
See the Tartan Manager for student rates on 
the following scientific papers;
The Electric Railway Journal 
The Electrical World 
The Engineering Record
Pittsburghs Oldest and Largest 
Dyeing and Cleaning Works
1 Oswald Werner & Sons Co.
I |
For specials occasions when you want the best try Du-* quesne, the coffee of quality; one cartons, 30c lb.
% GEO. K. STEVENSON CO.
Sixth Avenue opp. Trinity Church
* Highland and Center Avenues, East End
Bell Phone I2I2-J Schenley
LIEBljIira
Cleaning, Dyeing, _ Repairing and Pressing
BEOS.
-Merchant Tailors
327 South Craig St. Pittsburg, Pa.
NEW BULLETlN BOARDS.
The Glee and Mandolin Clubs have secured nice 
new bulletin boards for their own use exclusively. 
These boards have been hung in the hallways of the 
Science and Industries buildings and will be used for 
all announcements concerning the two clubs. The 
placing of the boards is an improvement over the 
old way of sticking up any old kind of a sign on the 
large School bulletins. The new bulletins are neat 
and effective and should prove of value to the two 
clubs.
The judge rode past Maud Muller.
Couldnt stop, because I have hay fever, he ex* 
plained.
However, he gave Whittier a more poetic version. 
New York Sun.
Heres a nickel, said a thrifty housewife to a 
tramp at her door. Now, what are you going to do 
with it?
Well, mum, replied the hungry man, if I buy a 
touring car, I shant have enough left to pay my 
chauffeur; if I purchase a steam yacht, there wont 
be enough left to defray the cost of manning her; 
so I guess, mum, Ill get a schooner and handle it my
self.Everybodys.
Xerxes today hath slaughtered the slave who serv
ed him his Phoenician high-ball. Yea, he hath ob
served that the ice was not what it was cracked 
up to be.Princeton Tiger.

---------------------------------------------------

12THE TARTAN
| Barkley & Cummings *
<i> |
 FORBES STREET PHARMACY *| *
| DO U KNO? We ' "y a full line of: *
Ankle Braces, Wristbands, Knee Caps, Station| ery, School Supplies, Etc. j
*A mens sweater coats, $1.50
*<6 Oxford Grey Worsted finish with good fish
* eye pearl buttonsdouble cuffs and double 4>band at skirtsold everywhere at $2.00 and+ good value at that$1.50.Our Sanitary Soda Fountain is UnexcelledJL
Reymers, Johnstons and Park & Tilfords Con- * 
fections always fresh and plenty to select from. ?
? * % Bellefield Presbyterian Church $MELLON NATIONAL BANK
5:4 SMITHFIELD STREET 
409 f IFTH AVENUECAMPBELL COYLE, Minister
9.45 A. M.Brotherhood Bible Study. 
11:00 A.M.Morning Service.
7:00 P.M.Y. P. S. C. E.
8:00 P. M.Evening Service.
SOLICITS THE ACCOUNTS OF
STUDENTS
CAPITAL
SURPLUS
$4,000,000
$3,200,000All Tech Faculty and Student Body Welcome *
HEIMERTS TOGERY SHOP
Where all the Tech bojS go. Why pay $1.00 and $r_5o for Tech 
Pennants when you can get them here at 50c and 75c
Are the Largest Manufacturers in the World of
OFFICIAL
EQUIPMENT
For all Athletic Sports and Pastimes
IT Y D11 are interested in II I UU Athletic Sport you should have a copy of the Spalding Catalogue. Its a complete encyclopedia o f WHATS NEW IN SPORT and is sent free on request.A, G. SPALDING & BROS.
439 Wood St., Pittsburg Pa.
THE SPALDING
TRADE-MARK
Xp'NQ
-DDDDDD<
Is known throughout the 
world as a Guarantee of 
Quilitv.
The Worlds Best Hatters Make
Soft Hats and Caps for .Comfort, Sport or i *
Travel. Derbies, Silk and Opera Hats for n! 4*! fDress. The best only from the Worlds Best  *
Hatters. 2 
OTTO OETTING  ^
Seventh & Smjthfield. Fifth & Wylie. * T
