orB
Vol. VI. No. 23orBVl.Il Nl23VI2rM a23ccMh1 ,I99hnsB.31 ,rtMarch 21, 1912
MASS MEETING.
Instead of a lecture on Thursday at 
the regular hour, a mass meeting of 
all the Science men, and many from 
the other schools, was held in No. 209, 
at which time the school insignia was 
awarded to those men who won their 
letters in last seasons football. Presi
dent Gilkinson, of Design School, con
ducted the meeting, and first called upon 
Dean Leete, who gave a short but most 
forceful and convincing talk on school 
activities. In some cases participation in 
these activities prevents school work, 
but this should not be so, for if a stu
dent will make a wise division of his 
time, he can not only keep up in his 
studies, but take part in one or more 
of the activities as well. It has been 
done and can be done again. It is not 
impossible if the student recognizes one 
fact: that he must make some sacrifices 
of his time, some time consumers must 
be given up. The members of the Fac
ulty as a whole are not opposed to 
school activities, and most of them have 
often stretched their consciences to the 
elastic limit in order to let students 
play in scheduled games. The Dean 
also gave us the welcome (?) informa
tion that the work in the Science school 
was going to be harder in the future. 
He gave three reasons for this: first, 
that an engineer now-a-days must know 
more; second, that more engineers are 
being turned out and the competition 
will be keener; and third, that it is 
necessary to establish a higher stand
ard.
Dean' Connelly next took the floor 
and after a short preliminary speech 
awarded certificates from the athletic 
association to the following men of last 
years football squad: Taylor (Capt.),
Patterson, Smucker, F. S. Crawford, 
Kesselman, Ayres, Balsinger, Buck, De 
Muth, Lucas, McCulley, Acheson, Clair, 
and Lamoree, (Mgr.), and each of 
these men was greeted with hearty ap
plause.
After the awarding of the letters, 
Pres. Gilkinson called upon a repre
sentative from each branch of activities 
for a speech on the progress made in 
each. The following men responded: 
Capt. Vail, of Baseball; Capt. Boots, of 
Track; Capt. Crawford, of Football; 
Mgr. Blair, of Basketball, and Mgr. 
Smith, of White Friars.
After a well-received selection by the 
members of the Glee Club present, the 
meeting adjourned, and all attending 
hope for more of these general gath
erings.
ELECTED SECOND ASSISTANT
G. B. Phelan was elected second as
sistant football manager for the var
sity. J. M. McKelvy was elected sec
ond assistant baseball manager. Both 
of the men are from the Industries.
WHITE FRIARS.
Following the call, by the Board of 
Governors, for the preliminary try
out for cast and chorus, the turnout 
of men was very encouraging, more 
than 65 men being present.
The work of iearning the simple 
dance steps was taken up with enthu
siasm, under the leadership of Evans, 
Fleming, Connell and Hayes, all old 
Friars, while Messrs. McMillen and 
Haaren alternated at the piano. Dean 
Connolly came in for a few moments 
and made a short talk, assuring the 
governors of his enthusiasm and inter
est.
Shortly after 9 oclock Coach Edmundson arrived and the work of clas
sifying the men began. The men 
were called to the platform in squads 
of four and put through the steps 
learned previously.
After the tryout Coach Edmundson 
expressed himself as greatly pleased 
with the number of men present, with 
the spirit displayed, and the quality 
of work done, saying that from pres
ent indications this years show would 
be one of the best the Friars have 
yet produced.
This to the men present at the try
out: Your work was good, and in
everyone should be the making of good 
Friars material. Dont let your efforts 
stop herethis is but the beginning 
if you wish to win for yuorself a place 
in thisyears play, in either cast or chor
us, you must work, be present at all re
hearsals, and practice the steps at ev
ery odd moment, pay the strictest 
attention to the instructors, put spirit 
and energy into your work. Bend 
every effort to become a member of 
this years company, for the experi
ence you gain now will stand you in 
good stead for the shows of the com
ing years.
Next year, if the Fates are kind, we 
shall have a theatre of our own in 
the new Applied Design building, and 
the companies that are selected to 
play in the White Friars shows, must 
be the very cream of the dramatic 
talent of the Schools. It will be no 
small honor to play with the Friars, 
and if that honor is to be yours you 
must show yourself worthy of it Now.
Watch the Bulletin Boards for an
nouncements of rehearsals for cast 
and chorus, and be there prepared to 
do your very best, because upon your 
work and conduct at rehearsals de
pends not only your chances for the 
show but your chances for the _eiection to the White Friars Club.
TRUSTEES VISIT.
FOUNDRY ALTERATIONS.
A two-ton electric hoist has been 
ordered for the foundry and is ex
pected to be ready for use within 
sixty days.
Plans are also being made for add
ing a class room for lectures upon 
foundry practice.
In order to allow the trustees of 
Carnegie Institute to sec the Schools 
an actual operation, classes were con
tinued in aii of the departments on 
Monday night, March 11. All of the 
laboratories were occupied, and every 
machine and piece of apparatus was 
kept busy by the combined day and 
night classes from 7:30 to 10:30, per
mitting the visitors ample opportunity 
of observing the advantages and needs 
presented by each department.
The guests were tendered a dinner 
at the Margaret Morrison School, 
which was prepared and served by 
the students of that School. Under 
the direction of Dean West they were 
then conducted through the building. 
While still in the amiable humor re
sulting from their repast, they in
spected rhe School of Applied Indus
tries under the leadership of Dean 
Connolly and his aids, visiting every 
shop and laboratory. They were 
shown the wonders of the School of 
Applied Design, by Assistant Dean 
McGoodwin and then left for the Ap
plied Science building. Escorted by 
Dean Leete, they were given a glimpse 
of an engineering education before 
the evening was over. All expressed 
themselves as much impressed by what 
rhey saw. and the students were as
sured of intense "sympathy and coop
eration.
The party included the following 
trustees: Messrs. Geo. H. Clapp, W. 
N. Frew, Robt. Garland, Howard 
Heinz, W. A. Hoeveler, Dr. J. P. 
Kerr, M. B. Leisser,. Wm. McConway, J. R. MacFarlaue, A. W. Mellon, 
Enoch Rauh and W. L. Scaife, and 
Dr. Holland, Director of the Museum; 
Supt. Cunningham, of the Institute, 
and Mr. Chas. Heinroth, Director of 
Music of Carnegie Institute.
AN EXPLANATION.
An explanation is due to the patrons 
of the basketball game on last Fri
day evening between Allegheny and 
Tech. The basketball manager had 
made arrangements with the Tech 
band to furnish music for the occa
sion and had scheduled a dance 
afterward. The Glee and Mandolin 
clubs were giving a concert on Fri
day evening and as quite a number 
of the band members are members 
of the clubs, they gave the concert 
the preference and thus rendered the 
band wholly unfit to play. This was 
justifiable action on the part of the 
band members m the clubs as insignia 
is awarded in the clubs for attendance 
while in the band the only reward is 
the pleasure derived from playing.
PLAID TOSSERS LOSE TO 
ALLEGHENY.
The last game of the basketball 
season was played last Friday at the 
Field House, in a closely contested 
match with Allegheny. The game was 
fast and interesting, but the visitors 
scored the lead in both halves.
The contest was witnessed by a 
fair-sized turnout, who showed much 
enthusiasm. A number of Allegheny 
rooters were present.
Lineup:
C. T. S.23. Allegheny30.
R. Williams........F.................... Nichols
Yahres..................F...................... Mates
Colvin....................C................ Lindberg
D. Williams........G.................. Thomas
Kesselman...........G................... Graham
First HalfField Goals, Yahres 1,
D. Williams 1, Nichols 1, Mates 1, 
Lindberg 4. Foul GoalsColvin 8
out of 11, Mates 5 out of 9.
ScoreC. T. S. 12; Allegheny 17. 
Second HalfField Goals, Yahres
2, D. Williams 1, Mates 3, Thomas 1, 
Foul Goals, Colvin 5 out of 9, Mates
2 out of 4, Graham 3 out of 3.
ScoreC. T. S. 11; Allegheny 13. 
RefereeRalston.
PRACTICE GAME WITH 
CANEVIN.
The Varsity Five walked away in a 
practice game with the Canevin Club, 
at Field House, on Tuesday the 12th.
Lineup:
C. T. S.53. Canevin23.
Yahres..................F.................... Lynch
R. Williams........F................ Donahue
Colvin....................C..................... Duffy
D. Williams........G................. Haverty
Kesselman............G...................... Lamb
First HalfField Goals, Yahres 2, 
R. Williams 1, Colvin 7, D. Williams
3, Lamb 1, Haverty 1, Duffy 2, Lynch
1, Donahue 1.
Foul GoalsColvin 3 out of 7, Don
ahue 1 out of 2.
Second Half: Field GoalsYahres
7, Colvin 2, Kesselman 2, Duffy 1, 
Donahue 1.
Foul GoalsColvin 2 out of 4, Don
ahue 4 out of 7.
SubstitutionsHeisel for Kessel
man,.Hall for Yahres.
RefereeMarks; Umpire  Ramsdell.
---------------o-----------
GAMMA KAPPA DANCE.
On last Thursday evening, the 
Gamma Kappa Club held an in
formal dance at their club house 
on North Dithridge street, which 
was attended by sixteen cou
ples, and chaperoned by Mrs. E. H. 
Bingler. Dancing was indulged in 
from 9 oclock until 12.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE TARTAN
THE TARTAN
Published weekly by the Under
graduates of the Carnegie Technical 
Schools, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
Business communications should be 
addressed to the eshIVlhh drVr.lBf 
all articles and other communications 
should be sent to the uTI9cByIVyo3Ilg
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
Yearly $1.00 5c per Copy
PITTSBURGH, PA., MACRH 21,1912.
EDITORIAL BOARD.
Donald D. Mitchell... Editor-in-Chief
Williard H. Beunte.......................Editor
Eugene Dowling ........Alumni Editor
C. B. Kline..................Athletic Editor
E. E. Duff, Jr..........Exchange Editor
Albert E. Ball.....................................
................Science Associate Editor
G. .rt.. Hays.........................................
..........Industries Associate Editor
A. H. Good..Design Associate Editor
Clara Jayme.........................................
___M. M. C. S. Associate Editor
BUSINESS BOARD.
D. W. Wait...............................Manager
Guy Kelcey............Assistant Manager
THE WHITE FRIARS.
It is with much pleasure that we 
notice the success of the efforts of 
the White Friars to revive and pro
duce a play this year. Even in the 
golden days of old, there was no such 
turn out of candidates at the first 
trials as that of last Thursday even
ing. That this should be so after the 
organization had spent a year in idle
ness, out of sight of the average un
dergraduate, proves very clearly that 
there is student need and interest in 
just such an activity as the Friars. 
With this student interest behind 
them, the officials of the club should 
experience less than the usual amount 
of difficulty in arranging the details 
incident to the staging of a credit
able performance. While the task be
fore them is by no means simple or 
free from complications, yet with the 
backing they are receiving from the 
graduates and undergraduates the 
White Friars should be able to solve 
these problems and gain for them
selves a sound footing, financially and 
artistically, placing themselves in a 
position to take their stand among 
the student activities at Carnegie.
We have been handed a letter by 
the officials of the musical clubs in 
which they complain against the at
titude taken by the students of the 
School of Applied Design in the mat
ter of taking a piano loaned for the 
uses of these clubs by the School of 
Applied Industries and refusing to re
turn the same, even at the request of 
the club president. In the words of 
the letter, this was not a very gra
cious action on the part of those
students.
If the facts of the case as stated 
are correct, we must confess that we 
are forced to agree that the musical 
clubs have a just ground for com
plaint. The fact that the students of 
the School of Applied Design were 
extremely busy, being on charette, 
does not, to our mind, alter the fact 
that they might have been more gra
cious in their attitude than the offi
cers of the musical clubs seemed to 
feel that they were. And, at the same 
time, it is possible that the men in 
the musical clubs might have real
ized that the men in the drafting 
rooms were so rushed and not expect
ed them to return the instrument, go
ing forit themselves. The Tartan holds 
no preference for any organization 
or individual, but it does like to see 
fair play on all sides. It likes to see 
the rights of individuals and of or
ganizations respected. It likes to see 
the harmony which should exist, ex
isting between the different groups 
and organizations in this institution. 
It dislikes to have such incidents as 
the one referred to above occur and 
regards them as deplorable. In this 
particular case it trusts that no hard 
feelings will be aroused and that the 
parties to the dispute may adjust any 
differences to their mutual and last
ing satisfaction.
CARNEGIE BABY.
The Alumni Association of the M. 
M. C. S. suggest as a candidate for 
the title of Carnegie Baby, Robert 
Brashear Gaston, son of Mr. and Mrs. 
Fred O. Gaston; born February 25, 
1912.
Mr. F. I. Gaston is a graduate of 
Science 09 and Mrs. F. I. Gaston a 
graduate of M. M. C\ S., 09.
Robert Brashear Gaston is the 
grand nephew of Dr. John A. BrashNEXT WEEK IN
THE THEATERS |
FULCRUM CLUB MEETING.
Lecture by Prof. Follows.
ALVIXFritzi Scheff, in Johann 
Straus comic opera, Der Fledermaus 
(The Bat), which has been renamed I 
The Night Birds, will be seen at j 
the Alvin. This old opera is one of I 
the most beautiful of the school to 
which it belongs.
NIXONThe Concert with Leo | 
Ditrichstein, will return to the Nixon 
for a week.
DUQUESNEMy Friend From 
India, will be revived by the Stock 
Company.
LYCEUMThe Light Eternal, a 
religious melodrama, will be seen.
GRANDA musical comedy in tab
loid will head the list of vaudeville 
at the Grand.
---------------o---------------
He Laughs Best Who Laughs First.
Why, man, you have no sense of 
humor. When I first heard that joke 
I laughed till my sides ached.
So did I.Christian Advocate.
On Wednesday evening, March 13, 
the Fulcrum Club held its regular 
monthly business meeting. The first 
part of he evening was taken up in 
transacting old and new business. It 
was decided that the regular monthly 
meetings of the Club shall be held 
on Monday instead of on Wednesday 
evenings, the change to take effect 
next month. The members of the 
faculty present were Profs. Follows 
and Willett and Mr. Fitzgerald.
Prof. Follows was asked to give a 
talk on his experiences while camp
ing in the Canadian wilderness. A 
lantern had been provided, and with 
the aid of about 40 slides Prof. Fol
lows told his story. Prof. Follows is an 
intensely interesting speaker; his de
scriptions of the Canadian wilderness 
were vivid and impressive, and his 
humorous remarks on the little inci
dents of camp life were fully appre
ciated by the audience. As for the 
matter of machine design, Prof. Fol
lows found a fertile field here for the 
application of principles to original 
situations. As evidence of the splen
did way in which he mastered diffi
cult engineering problems and con
quered natures opposition in the in
stallation of a comfortable and prac
tical camp, we may mention the de
sign and successful construction of a 
spacious tent with a wooden floor, well 
elevated above the ground; a boat 
wharf provided with seats, etc., ex
tending some 25 feet into the lake, and 
a mess table, capable of tempting any 
unfortunate individual wrho has yield
ed to the modern and degenerated 
habit of consuming his meals at a 
similar piece of furniture placed in a 
room and under a protecting roof.
On the whole, Prof. Follows talk 
was not only interesting and full of 
spirit, but also very instructive to 
those who intend or are likely to 
have anything to do with the instal
lation of a camp in a wild country.
A hearty applause showed that 
Prof. Follows lecture had been en
joyed by all those present. During 
the buffet lunch w'hich was next in
dulged in, he was asked many ques
tions regarding his Canadian adven
tures, and some more funny experi
ences were related. The meeting ad
journed at 11 oclock.
To Rent Rooms
3354 Fifth Avenue
Just opened a new home, having large, airy and well furnished rooms; excellent board; located conveniently to Carnegie Hall and 15 minutes from city. Home comforts our specialty. Very reasonable rates.
Whittington & Wade
Patronize ittsburgh  
erfect  
roduct
ATEK
ALMOND
BAR
5 Cents
6002Jenkins
Arcade
Bell Phone 1 587 Court
FOR HIRE
Full Dress Suits 
Frock Coats 
T uxedos 
Silk Hats 
White Vests 
Striped Trousers 
Opera Hats
New Place New Suits 
New Styles
Best Service West of 
New York
Mellon National Bank
514 Smithfield Street 
409-411 Fifth Avenue
SOLICITS THE ACCOUNTS 
OF STUDENTS
Capital
Surplus and Profits
S6T000,000 
$1,500,000
HERMAN H. ADAM
OEBNRB HLO
FANCY AND STAPLE GROCERIES
405 Dithridge Street 
L78 Scheoiey  Pittsburgh, Pa.
YOURE NEXT 
TECH SANITARY BARBER SHOP
Harry F. Van Curen, Prop.
Cor. Craig and Forbes Street 
Pittsburgh, - Penna.
BRACE BROS.
Launderers, Cleaners 
and Dyers
608 Trenton Avenue, Wilkinsburg 
6102 Penn Avenue. East Liberty
Both Phones
Pittsburghs Perfect 
Prescription Pharmacy
THE A TWOOD
Cor. Forbes and Atwood Street.
BUTTER, EGGS, 
COFFEE, TEAS, POULTRY, ETC.
ALL AT RIGHT PRICESOAKLAND BUTTER MARKET
3714 FORBES STREET 
Phone 710 Schenly. " We Deliver

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN3
CY$B,LB-C
THE MAN WITH THE SHOES.
Closing Out all broken lines at a Price 
6227 Penn Avenue EAST END 6222 Frankstown Avenue
EVERYBODY'S PLAYER ROLL DEPT.
For the convenience and service of all player piano owners, we have equipped the largest and best Player Roll Department in the United States. You will find here everything at your convenienceefficient and courteous serviceenormous stock of rollsjust what you want-and five (5) demonstrating parlors to try over your rollswhich means no waiting.
PITTSBURGHS BEST W p FRPHFRICK PIANO CO WE CLOSE AT 6:30EQUIPPED ROLL DEPT W. T. T IXXUEilVl^IV I Irt.il U VA7. 01 SATURDAY
635-637 SM ITH FI ELD STREET
City Office; Fast End Office
631 Penn Avenue Highland Ave. and Baum Street
Oswald Werner & Sons Co.
Pittsburghs Oldest and Largest 
Dyemg and Cleaning Worlds
Main Office and Works: Cor. Bryant, St. Clair and Mellon Streets
Dancing Deportment Aesthetics
M. M. C. S. NEWS.
THE TECH BABY FOUND, AT 
LAST!
A member of the Faculty of the M. 
M. C. S. while on a visit of inspection 
to the Columbia Hospital, on Tues
day, March 12th, was astounded to 
find three healthy babies each proud
ly wearing a Tech button upon its 
little nighty!
Let them fight it out!.---------------o---------------
SENIOR ELECTIONS.
WittiestLaura Flynn.
PrettiestClara M. Jayme.
Most PopularLorna Macintosh. 
Best DancerLillian King.
Best NaturedMarguerite Gurley. 
Happy-Go-Lucky  Mildred MacCullagh.
GigglerElisabeth Lawrie.
Best StudentElizabeth Yagle.
---------------o---------------
DESIGN SCHOOL
Class B Charette.
Last week saw a strenuous and in
teresting Class B Charette on the 
plan problem, A Pavillion on the 
Border of a Reservoir, and on the 
order, An entrance to a garden. The 
problems were unusually good and 
at nine oclock Monday morning a 
large number of exceptionally welldrawn and rendered problems were 
sent in to New York for the Beaux 
Arts Society judgment of April 2nd. 
The Industries auditorium piano, griz
zly bears, bunny hugs, marathons 
and eats served to keep up the spirits 
and enthusiasm of the charetters.
The scheduled relay race was won 
in a hard fought contest by the Pira
nesi team over the Racenet and Order 
teams. The long corridor served as 
the course and was lined on both 
sides by eager spectators and enthu
siasts. Bulletins from time to time 
during the evening announced the 
condition of the contestants. In def
erence to the moral scruples of 
Messrs. Red Jones and Fitz Fitzgibbon no bookmakers were allowed on 
the course.
At a recent Design School meet
ing, Kaufman and Weller were elected 
to the second assistant football and 
baseball managerships respectively.
---------------o---------------
MECHANICAL SOCIETY 
MEETING
At the regular monthly meeting of 
the Carnegie Mechanical Society on 
Wednesday evening, March 13, one of 
the largest assemblages of the year 
greeted the speaker of the evening, Mr.
F. N. Kindi. Mr. Kindi, who is a mem
ber of the Senior Class, spoke on the 
Oxygen Melting Process, and by 
means of sketches illustrated his lec
ture in such a way that the necessity 
and merits of such a process were well 
shown. Following the lecture a demon
stration of the process was given, where 
by means of burning the iron under a 
high pressure of Oxygen, a hole 2 inches 
in diameter and 15 inches long was 
bored in a steel ingot.
A committee composed of Messrs.
Phillips, Engstrom and French, was 
appointed to make arrangements for 
and to take charge of the Annual ban
quet of the Mechanical Engineers So
ciety.
The speakers at the next meeting will 
be Messrs. Lamoree, Patterson and 
Raisig, who will speak on a special line 
of work which they are doing. Mr. 
Lamoree will speak on the subject of 
Packing, Mr. Patterson on Automo
bile Construction, and Mr. Raisig on 
The Electrical Measurement of Flow 
of Air.
After the eats committee had done 
full justice to their duty the meeting 
was adjourned, everybody voting this 
one of the most interesting and instruct
ive meetings of the year.
--------------o--------------
MHO CLUB.
The regular meeting of the Mho Club 
was held Wednesday evening, March 
13th. During the business part of the 
! meeting, a resolution drawn up by A. 
J. Peterson, Ath. Rep., was read and 
adopted by the club. This resolution 
was to the effect that all men who play 
on the Mho Club baseball team nine 
innings in each of half the number of 
games played, or four and one-half 
innings in each of two-thirds the 
number of games, and to the manager, 
be awarded an insignia of the Mho 
Club.
After the business meeting, Mr. LE. Griswold gave a very interesting 
and instructive talk on The Central 
Colorado Power & Light Project, De
velopment No. 1 (Shoshone HydroElectric Plant). The speaker was so 
well versed on his subject and had it 
so well illustrated with lantern slides 
there is no doubt every member present 
greatly appreciated the talk.
After adjourning to the Mho Club 
room dainty refreshments with the 
usual smokes were served.
--------------o--------------
BUREAU OF STUDENT AID.
Foundry foreman in small brass 
foundry, melting about 1,000 lbs. per 
day. Man with several years practi
cal moulding experience required. $100- 
$125 month.
Assistant foreman in waxed paper 
department of large paper company in 
Vermont. Man required who possesses 
a good knowledge of industrial chem
istry, in addition to the ability to han
dle men. $15 to $30 per week, accord
ing to ability of applicant.
Chemistsresearch work  $75 per 
month.
Openings for graduates as tire in
spectors in rubber company in Ohio. 
$75 per month at start.
--------------o--------------
LEATHER BOUND THISTLE.
For the past two weeks a sample 
of the leather bound Thistle has been 
exhibited in the different Schools. 
Many persons have inquired concern
ing the soft leather in preference to 
the stiff backed book as shown. These 
may be ordered at the same price, 
$1.50, but the binder does not advise 
their purchase as the book is too large 
and heavy to be bound that way.
All orders must be made before 
Friday, March 22.
O. C. HENRY
5321 FIFTH AVENUE
PHOTOGRAPHS
We make a specialty of School Groups, Class 
and Fraternity Pictures 
Prices the lowest and work the best
W. S. BROWN
Wood Street and Oliver Avenue 
PITTSBURGH, PENNA. 
Cutlery, Athletic and Sporting Goods
Flowers get nearer the heart than candy
RANDOLPH & McCLEMENTS
TWO STORES 
BAUM AND BEATTY STREETS 
PENN AND HIGHLAND AVENUES
The Rittenhouse
W. R. KUHN CO. Highland near Penn E. E.
Finest EquipmentBest Facilties for Banquets  Dinners Danccs HopsReceptions.Low Rates. Get Estimates.
TECH MEN=ATTENTI0N!
When you have doings with Eatings 1 get your Ice Creams, Cakes, Candies, Grape Juice, etc., at our place. We will give you special prices on quantities. : : :
THE HALLER BAKERY
3618 FORBES ST. Iroquois Block
SCHENLEY FARM TERRACE
1 7 houses nearing completion. Nine sold 
$1 3.000.00 to $1 7,000.00 complete.
SCHENLEY FARMS COMPANY
1412 Farmers Bank Building Phone Grant 3
Special Rates to Tech Students. 
Dress Suit Rental Co. 522 Pittsburgh 
Life Building.
McDougall Dancing Academies
Wood Street and Fifth Avenue, Downtown 
4614-16 Forbes Street, Oakland 
Penn and Shady Avenues, East Liberty
Bell 9379 Schenley P. & A. 1661-R Park 
I do all the Tech Boys hauling
Oakland Storage and Transfer Co.
J. C. REMSBERG, Proprietor 
Package and Baggage Transfer 
Moung and General Hauling 
229-231 Atwood Street, PITTSBURGH, PA
Bell Phone 2797 Cedar. P. & A. Phone 952 A
H. A. BECKER,
MUSIC HOUSEEVERYTHING KNOWN IN MUSICHeadquarters for Band and OrchestraInstruments, Music and Supplies
No. 601 Ohio Street i n W.R K K n Corner of widdie N. o. Pittsburgh, Pa.
A. C. GIES 
Jeweler and Optician
6260 Frankstown Avenue 
EAST END., PITTSBURGH, PA% 
Bell Phone 1373 Highland
AN ECONOMICAL LUXURY 
DUQ U E S N E COFFEE
Wont you try itthe other kind are | not good enough.
GEO. K. STEVENSON & CO.
606 Wood St. Highland and Centre Ave. E. E.
The old system of using a heated 
iron and dirty cloth presses the grime 
and dirt into your garments. Our san
itary machine steams it all out, and 
removes permanently the dirt, per
spiration, odor and grime. See Shu
man the Dry Cleaner, 3911 Forbes St.
Speci . rates to Tech students.
Dress Suit Rental Co. 522 Pittsburgh
Life Building.

---------------------------------------------------

4T HE TARTAN
T------------------ 
1 WHATS WHAT AND HOW. j
A glee club may be casually defined as one of the wooers of music, heav
enly maid, whose intentions are not 
at all serious. This platonic affection 
for the somewhat ancient and blase 
lady is a sufficient raison detrefor publication. The real secret spring of 
this festive organizations existence is 
a sporting interest in the question as 
to how near a group of students sail
ing in a temporarily chartered craft 
(christened Glee Club by breaking 
a bottle of ink over its bows) can 
coast to the reef called Flunk without 
striking bottom. And then, too, there 
are the all too volatile immortality 
of the footlights and the public un
veiling of glad rags, that were never 
borne to bag unseen.
A shirt that takes the public blandly into its confidence, an open faced vest, 
which amounts to an abdominal band
age with shoulder straps, and. a coat 
suffering from arrested development, 
under circumstances of sufficient publicit}-, will raise an undergraduate to 
the nth power without the use of log
arithms. He will need a shoe horn to get his hat on for days.
The same blithe costume will make 
a fifty-cent dinner cost from three to 
ten dollars in a swell cafe, and render discrimination at times difficult be
tween male guests and the suave gents w'ho collect tips and spill 
coffee over confiding shirt fronts.
Saturated with his sartorial glory, 
the glee-clubist seats himself in stud
ied negligence, but with a due regard 
for the sanctity of his trouser creases, 
and haughtily sweeps the audiencc 
with a vacuum cleaner glance. Pres
ently when the game is called he takes 
to his calcimined bosom the particu
lar instrument of torture that he can 
do the most execution with (musically, 
of course). Thereafter his energies 
are concentrated upon the caressing 
of certain orphaned portions of the 
inner works of some wandering feline 
minstrel, that have been called from 
the dark and devious pursuits in the 
alimentary interests of their late own
er, and persuaded to lead a higher life.
Or, if not interested professionally 
in these heirlooms of a family devoted to noctural recitals of an unpopular ragtime, he will stalk with exagger
ated calm (secretly attempting to 
swallow his heart again) to the foot
lights, proving that though about to 
die he is game.
Throwing back his head, to clear 
the right of way, he fills his proud young and innocent lungs with the 
emulsion of furnace by-products, lo
cally masquerading as atmosphere, 
each inspiration being worth about 
twenty cents, at the present price of 
coal.
After each gulping breath, that cre
ates a draft, even in the rear of the 
room, has dumped its carboniferous 
burden into his pulmonary coal bins, 
he uses what is left to tell his troubles 
to the audience in song.
At the end of the ceremony he will 
assay from fifty cents to a dollar more 
combustibles than at the beginning 
and will be a distinct asset in the here
after to a certain notorious proprietor
of furnaces., if he is so indiscreet as 
to fall into his clutches. And what is 
the burden of his lay?
If he is orthodox, he will implore 
one Juanita, a college widow of Span
ish extraction to ask her soul if we 
should part.
As no authoritative answer has ever been recorded the natural inference 
is either that this ladys somewhat 
shopworn soul does not understand 
English, or that having been inter
viewed some thousands of times rela
tive to this matter, it has gotten a 
trifle sore and reticent.
Or if he is a dead game sport he 
may invite some nameless but frisky 
coed goddess to drink to me only 
with thine eyes and Ill not ask for 
wine; implying, of course, that while 
champagne is his familiar beverage, 
under the circumstances this preem
inently soft drink is just his size.
Oh, yes, this glee club dissipation 
is one of the infrequent oases in the 
howling desert of education. It gives 
the panting wayfarer courage and 
faith to make up the old, old, bluffs 
with extraneous features after the art 
of the green room, with which he 
now regards himself as familiar, and to 
introduce them as strangers to his 
confiding instructors.
And besides it is fame! A simple 
miniature sample package, of course, 
but tasting like the real thing and 
leaving no deceased and unburied 
flavor sitting up with the palate over 
night.
---------------o---------------
SCHOOL VISITORS.
Recent visitors at the Schools in
clude Mr. and Mrs. Corthals Altes, 
of Amsterdam, Netherlands. Mr. 
Altes is a member of the Dutch legis
lature and is now on his fifth trip 
around the world. He takes much 
interest in the moral and mental ele
vation of the farmers in his district 
in Holland, and it is with this end 
in view that he is now studying our 
educational institutions and their 
methods.
Bell Phone 1221-L Schenley P. & A. Phone 6 Park
OAKLAND HAND LAUNDRY
Strictly Hand Work
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID TO 
PRIVATE LAUNDRY
328 ATWOOD STREET
LOUIS GIMM, Proprietor
Every service a bank may 
render its customers is per
formed by
The Oakland 
Savings & Trust Co.
Iroquois Block.
Cheerfully, promptly and on 
the best of terms.
Capital $200,000.00 
Surplus and Profits $198,500.00 
Deposits over $1,300,000.00
TrueYaluesB&BTrue Values
Plenty of Smart New Soft Hats--Spring Styles. You might as well set the pace as follows-get your new hat now. New Soft Hats for Spring-College Shapes $2.00 and $3.00.
NORTH SIDE,BOGGS & BUHL,
PITTSBURGH, PA.
We have been fitting feet for over Forty years
P. LUDEBUEHL & SONPenn & Frankstown Avenue, East End.
MASEM TIN GI.LC DOL
^ OUR SPECIALTYFOUR NEW LASTS THIS SEASON
KISMETCOSMOCORNELL-DREAM. They are all Winners,Black or Tan. $4.00 and $4.50 the Pair
D$YBR CADBLRBI
New Special Features
Ritz Carlton Restaurant Banqueting and Ball Room
VERY LARGE FOYER AND LOUNGE ROOM. PRIVATE ENTRANCE
Balls and Parties of all descriptions catered for
NEW RATHSKELLER, CAFE AND POOL ROOM
CARNEGIE TECHNICAL SCHOOLS : PITTSBURGH
T
HE Carnegie Technical Schools consist of four 
separate schools, each with its own faculty, buildings 
and student body. The courses of instruction 
offered in these four schools differ widely.
School of Applied ScienceOffers courses in chemical, 
civil, electrical, commercial, mechanical, metallurgical, 
mining and sanitary engineering. 
School of Applied DesignOffers courses in architecture, 
interior decoration, illustration and painting, open to both 
men and women. 
School of Applied IndustriesOffers industrial courses in 
machine construction, building construction, and elec
trical equipment and installation. Short courses are offered 
in the various trades for applicants with experience. A 
new course to equip men as teachers in manual training 
and in trade school work is also offered. The increasing 
demand for such men provides an attractive field for the 
progressive young mechanic and the public school teacher 
Margaret Morrison Carnegie SchoolFor women only. 
Offers courses in household economics, secretarial work, 
dressmaking, and costume illustration and design. Be
cause of the demand for trained teachers, graduate courses 
are offered for those who wish to prepare for the many 
positions now open for women in these newer lines of work. 
Night CoursesThe four schools offer night courses in 
practically all of the above subjects to provide educational 
opportunities for those who are at work during the day.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION ADDRESS REGISTRAR, 
CARNEGIE TECHNICAL SCHOOLS, PITTSBURGH, PA.
