(Tari an
Vol. IX. No. 24Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh, PennsylvaniaMarch 18, 1915
PLAID (LOSES SEASON 
WJIB VIGOR!
Vol.Caao rCnCoaCe gi o Istsu fTclCh
HOME CONCERT IS 
BIG SUCCESS
PLEBE QUALIFICATION 
DAT. FRIDAY
Saturday night the Varsity closed 
its season by winning from Marietta 
by a 32 to 26 score, and thus atoned 
for the defeat that was sustained ear
lier in the season at the hands of 
the collegians. The game was inter
esting and well played, beside being 
one of the cleanest that has been seen 
at the Field House this year, only 
a total of seventeen fouls being 
called on both sides. Both teams 
played hard and aggressive ball and 
long shots featured for both sides. 
The Plaid aggregation took the lead 
at the beginning of the game when 
Humphries who was playing center 
in the place of Meredith, dropped a 
basket. Our boys steadily increased 
the gap and at the end of the first 
half the score stood 15-10 in our fa
vor. In the second period, Tech, by 
steady playing, kept the score in our 
favor in spite of the valiant efforts 
on the part of our opponents to cut 
down the Plaid lead and with only 
three minutes to play, we were lead
ing by a 30-20 tally. At this period, 
Marietta took a sudden spurt (or 
Tech took a sudden slump, we know 
not which) and shot three baskets in 
rapid order, bringing their total to
26 and putting them in the running 
for the game. Capt. Hines then came 
to the rescue with a pretty basket 
with only one minute to play, and the 
game was ours by a 32 to 26 score.
Humphries made his debut at the 
center of the floor in a rather aus
picious manner, caging five field goals 
besides playing a whale' of a floor 
game. Henning had a hard man to 
play in Hayes, but put up a credit
able game against his speedy oppon
ent; Dutchs aggressiveness was 
much in evidence. Schiffer played a 
snappy game and was in the fight at 
all times. Levy played a fast game, 
toothe floor, beside getting his 
usual quota of foul goals, as Doc
tor Marks would say. Lastly, Capt. 
Hines played his characteristic star 
game, a game that has undoubtedly 
stamped him as one of the best 
guards in this end of the state. For 
Marietta, Hinman and Hayes played 
well. Hinman was not only all over 
the floor, but also succeeded in get
ting out into the side lines in some 
of his activities; he playfully bowled 
over one of Techs fair rooters, and 
after injuring her in a rather serious 
(?) manner, proceeded to explain how
Continued on Page 3
Musical Clubs Render Delightful New Custom to be Established.
Program. ---------
Tomorrow will mark a red letter 
The Musical Clubs gave their Tenth day for the Plebes of the Design and
Annual Home Concert at the Carnegie Science Schools, and perhaps a blue
Music Hall last Friday evening. To letter event for upper classmen. At
say the least it was a fitting climax three-thirty oclock tomorrow afterto the ten years of existence which noon the Plebe hats, black ties and
this club, the most successful of our hose will be discarded, accompanied
non-athletic activities, has experi- with a befitting ceremony and approenced. priate music.
The first hit of the evening was A committee from the Design
scored by Mr. H. A. Hoffman, with School has been intently at work in 
his reading of Rudyard Kiplings conjunction with a Science committee
On the Road to Mandalay. Mr. and have formulated the following
Hoffman proved to be a reader of plan for 'that ceremony. A large
exceptional ability, who scored such a coffin is to be placed upon some consuccess that he was called upon by venient spot on the campus, probably
the delighted audience for three en- in front of the Design School. The
cores. Plebes from the Science and Design
Jack Camerons singing of A Per- Schools will then be lead by the
feet Day was very well received by Tech Band and upperclassmen, in
the audience, as was the number ren- single file, before the coffin into which
dered by the quartet composed of each Plebe will reluctantly discard
Mr. H. R. Hoffman, F. L. Sharp, A. his official cap, or those who desire to
O. Newman, and J. A. Cameron. In keep them as a relic of the war may
the numbers given by the mandolin replace the same by a black tie or
trio, Messrs. Scalzo, L. R. Madison pair of hose. When this sad rite has
and H. A. Madison, the audience been performed pall-bearers, appointsurely was given a rare treat, and it ed by the committees, will carry the
is safe to say that this trio can be remains to the athletic field, lead
numbered among the best in the by the band, where the coffin will be
country, which by the way is saying placed upon a funeral pyre. After
a great deal. further ceremonies have been effected
Of the numbers which were given and the Plebe representatives have anby the Glee Club, Sleep Time, Mah swered the charges given by the lords
Honey, seemed to call forth the of the higher classes the coffin will
most enthusiastic applause on the be burned and the day of Plebe hats
part of the audience, while the Lust- and restrictions will vanish in the
spiel Overture rendered by the Man- smoke and blaze of the cremating redolin Club appeared to call forth the mains. Further interesting ceremonmost favorable criticism of any of ies are to follow, after which a tempttheir selections. mg line of eats will be served in the
Following the concert the annual gymnasium,
formal dance was held in the ball This event is the bi^ event tbe
room of the Hotel Schenley, and it is P'^es life and must be attended by
needless to say that it was greatly every Plebe, for he who does not atenjoyed by all tend wil1 be branded as an outcast
The program of the evening fol- and one who fosters no essence of the
lows: Tech sPint . u .PROGRAM The ceremonies will begin prompt P L ^ ly at four oclock. Programs will
r AID( =............p "r have been issued on Wednesday.(b) Winter Songs..r. F. Bullard
Glee Club. I ~
2The Crescendo March .............. TRAINING HOUSE BENEFIT
...................................H. F. ODell DANCE.
Mandolin Club. ______
3 The Vassals Farewell .......... . Under thg Auspices of the
..............Glee Club Humper mk SEANNACHIE SOCIETY
OLustspiel Overture..Kela-Bela Friday, March 19th, 8:30.
Mandolin Club. Administration Building.
5-Glee Club Quartet..........Selected Nirellas OrchestraMessrs. Cameron, Newman,
Sharp, Hoffman. ALL STUDENTS WELCOME.
yc,a.,PCe c, bovC s M.TXCaJ c, foBC Vc,eoih
PITTSBURGH ATHLETIC 
ASSOCIATION MEET
dxTCBBC,a fhcw.,v VoeC Bi MloTX 
MComh
With Duquesne Garden thronged 
with a crowd that filled every seat 
and almost all the standing room, the 
Fifth Annual P. A. A. Indoor Track 
Meet turned out to be one of the 
most successful ever held in this part 
of the country. Large aggregations 
of athletes from all over the state 
competed with each other for the 
Middle Atlantic Championship. With 
four records broken and one tied the 
meet furnished all the excitement one 
could wish. L. A. Cross, of the P. 
A. A., lowered the record 6 4-5 sec
onds when he did the 600-yard run in 
19 2-5 seconds. Sam Weitz, of the 
Mercury A. C., broke the record in 
the 1,000-yard race by 2 4-5 seconds, 
when he finished in 2:26 2-5 seconds. 
The record in the Two-Mile Run was 
shattered by Organ, of the P. A. A. 
He reduced the former record by 
19 3-5 seconds after completing the 
course in 10:10. J. L. King, of the 
P. A. A., formerly of Carnegie, raised 
his former record in the high jump 
from 5 ft. 9 in. to 5 ft. 10 in. Hammitt, of Penn State, equalled his for
mer record of 8 1-5 seconds in the 
60-yard high hurdles. One of the most 
interesting events was the one mile 
relay for Pennsylvania colleges. C.
Continued on Page 5
fyHdrULdh
MhPlJeoi, VolTh 18ahh
LectureRose Pastor StokesDe
sign Theater, 4 P. M.
Fl.eoi, VolTh 19ahh
Plebe Qualification Day Exercises, 
Campus, 4 P. M.
MatineeConcertDesign Theater, 4 
P. M.
Benefit dance for Training House, 
Carnegie Union, 8:00 P. M.
Physical Training Exhibition, M. M.
C. S. Gym., 8:00 P. M.
foaPleoi, VolTh s0ahh
Baseball Practice, 10:30 A. M.
MPCJeoi, VolTh sIleh
Radio Lecture, Room 209, A. S., 8:00 
P. M.
Baseball Practice, 4:00 P. M.
WCe,CJeoi, VolTh s4ahh
Inspection Visit, Rotary Club.
Performance, The Neighbors, De
sign Theater, 8:30 P. M.
MhPlJeoi, VolTh suahh
Baseball Practice, 4:00 P. M.
Fl.eoi, VolTh suahh
Matinee, Design Theater, 4:00 P. M.
foaPleoi, VolTh s7ahh
Easter Vacation commences.

---------------------------------------------------

2GTlye artan
(Harlan
Published weekly by Undergradu
ates of the Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
Business communications should be 
addressed to the BUSINESS MAN
AGER; all articles should be sent to 
the EDITOR-IN-CHIEF.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
Yearly $1.50. 5c per Copy
Entered in the Post Office of Pitts
burgh as second class matter.
de.aclt.,tyh.Cn
Edwin S. Rauh, 15.
Phone, Schenley 543.
BPJ.,CJJ Vo,ovCl 
Arch H. Cowan,, 16 
Phone, Schenley 9167. 
Vo,ov.,v de.acl 
W. H. Searight, 16 
NCwJ de.aclJ 
Wm. M. Sheldon, 15
E. G. Hamilton, 17 
AahBCa.T de.acl 
Henry Levy, 15.
de.aclJ 
Marguerite Spilman, 15 
Anthony Kerin, 17Carl F. Peters, 17 
P. N. Bossart, 16 H. L. Heilman, 16 
AJJcT.oaC de.aclJ 
Marguerite Menges, 16 W. M. Swan, 18 
M. J. Wohlgemuth, 16 Geo. A.Cook 18
C. B. Coe, 16.
PITTSBURGH, PA., MARCH 18, 1915
OUR VUfIyAL yLUBf rdyArdh
The Home Concert marked the 
tenth year of the existence of 
our Musical Clubs. During those 
ten years, through careful man
agement and leadership, ithe clubs 
have seen a period of prosperity that 
has seldom, if ever, been equalled. 
Consequently, at the present time we 
find ourselves the proud possessors 
of a mandolin and glee club, that can 
be ranked with the best, which has in 
the past, and will in the future, prove 
to be one of the biggest assets that 
our Alma Mater can possess. Prob
ably no organization or activity with 
the possible exception of a winning 
football team can bring a school more 
intimately before the general public 
than its musical clubs, and surely no 
organization can better impress the 
public with the character and quality 
of the students in a school than such 
a club. It therefore remains to the 
students here at Tech to see to it 
that in the next decade, our Musical 
Clubs make as much progress, and 
attain as much prominence as they 
have in the past. To do this is not 
the work of a day nor a week, but re
quires hard, painstaking effort on the 
part of every individual connected 
with the clubs, and the undying sup
port of the student body. We have 
had this in the past, so lets have it 
in the future and thus make the next 
ten years as prolific as those which 
have just passed.
W. M. S.
A NdW LINd OF AyMIVIMY FOR 
MHd dNGINddRING 
fMUrdNMh
fPvvCJa.c,J Flcm A, d,v.,CClh
In the Engineering Record for 
January 30, 1915, appears an article 
by Mr. Wm. R. King, Consulting En
gineer, New York City, entitled, A 
National Factor of Safety, which de
serves consideration from all engi
neers and engineering students, more 
especially at this time, when discus
sion is rampant anent the militarizing 
of colleges. Mr. King points out the 
pre-eminence of the engineer in the 
greatest war of all time. He says: 
The present European conflict, as 
must be self-evident to every student 
of the situation, is a war by the engi
neer and his creaturesMechanisms 
of destruction. Engineering skill, 
with its production of aeroplanes and 
Zeppelins, armored railway trains 
and automobiles, 42-centimeter howit
zers and rapir-fire artillery, submar
ines, seachlights, and the wireless 
telegraph has sustained the burden of 
active offense and defense. To Ger
manys pre-eminence in the field of 
technology, as applied to military 
science, may be accorded all credit 
for her so far overwhelming success. 
Here, indeed, is food for thought 
of the most serious nature. Methods 
of warfare have been revolutionized 
in the fast decade and it is to the en
gineer that the military commander 
turns when he wants a position at
tacked or defended; and if the policy 
of military instruction in the schools 
and colleges of the country is to be 
carried outa question which we do 
not attempt to discuss hereit is in 
the schools of technology that men 
must be trained in the military ap
plications of their various professions. 
The students of the high schools and 
academic colleges may be trained to 
perform as cavalry and infantry; stu
dents of medical schools are already 
able to fulfill the duties of the medical 
staff; but the engineering and artillery 
branches belong to the technical 
schools.
Mr. King says further: Familiar
ize the civil engineer with the con
struction of permanent and temporary 
fortifications, with rapid road, rail
road and bridge reconstruction; the 
mechanical engineer with the design, 
manufacture and operation of arms, 
ordnance and projectiles, of tor
pedoes, submarines and aeroplanes; 
the electrical engineer with various 
systems of military communication, 
with the electric operating mechan
isms of heavy ordnance, turrets, etc., 
with the placing and exploding of 
submarine mines; the mining engi
neer with the construction of earth
works, approaches and terrestial 
mines; the chemical engineer with 
the practical manufacture of military 
explosivesto which we might add, 
for the sanitary engineer, the sanita
tion of large concentration camps and 
of cities under martial law.
These are but a few suggestions as 
to the application of a national Fac
tor of Safety on which the nation 
is to depend in years to come.
C. B. C.
HOME CONCERT
Continued from Page 1
6Estudiantina Waltz ....................
............................... E. Waldteufel
Mandolin Club. 
INTERMISSION.
7(a) Serenade to Juanita ...........
..................................... A. Jouberti
Glee Club.
(b) Perfect Day ..........................
.......................... Carrie Jacobs-Bond
Solo by J. A. Cameron, 
accompanied by Glee Club.
8Donn South ...W. M\ Myddleton 
Arranged by G. Scalzo.
Mandolin Club.
9Reveling  On the Road to 
Mandalay .... Rudyard Kipling
Mr. H. R. Hoffman.
10Mandolin Trio ..................Selected
Messrs. Scalzo, L. R. Madison,
H. A. Madison.
11Sleep Time, Mah Honey ...
.................................C. T. Howell
Glee Club.
12The Meteor March...W. M. Rice
Mandolin Club.
Alma Mater .......................Carnegie
HdAr OF NdW rdbARMVdNMh
Walter Van Dyke Bingham, at 
present assistant professor of Psy
chology and Education at Dartmouth, 
has been appointed Professor of Psy
chology and Pedagogy at this Insti
tute and will be head of another de
partment, to be located in the Central 
Building, next fall.
BIrf ObdNdr FOR rdfIGN 
WINGfh
The bids for the construction of the 
two new wings to the building of the 
School of Applied Design, were open
ed last Saturday, and the contracts 
will be awarded some time this week. 
Construction work on both wings will 
then be commenced at once.
BIrf ArVdRMIfdr FOR rOR
VIMORY GROUbh
Plans and specifications for the pro
posed dormitory group have been 
drawn up and the administration will 
advertise for bids on the construction 
work some time this week with the 
idea of ascertaining whether the ini
tial cost will be so great as to pre
clude the construction of the group 
at present. A full description of the 
dormitories as at present planned will 
appear later in this paper.
MWO yLUBf VIfIM INfMIMUMdh
The members of the Pittsburgh 
Chamber of Commerce visited the 
four schools last evening for the pur
pose of inspecting the various build
ings. Moving pictures were shown 
in Room 104 A. I., after which the 
members inspected the various shops 
and laboratories in five groups. A 
special heat was run in the electric 
furnace of the Metallurgical Labora
tory and by the Senior Metallurgists. 
At 9:30, all the groups combined and 
witnessed a production of The 
Neighbors by the dramatic students.
The members of the Pittsburgh
DIRECTORY
F. E. Foster, Graduate Manager oi 
Athletics and Student Activities,
301 Central Building.
AMHLdMIyfh
FccagoBBW. W. Lauer, Capt.
K. S. Henning,
5133 Woodlawn Ave. 
BoJCgoBBJ. C. Humphrey, Capt.
F. M. Pringle, Mgr. 
BoJXCagoBBA. S. Hines, Capt.
M. E. Boyer, Jr., Mgr., 
5437 Aylesboro Ave. 
Trackdh R. Haselton, Capt.
E. W. Overdorf, Mgr.
TennisR. S. Wilson, Jr., Mgr.
341 Rebecca St.
faPeC,aJ AevCla.J.,v BPlCoP
T. L. Gleason, Mgr.,
5133 Woodlawn Ave. 
ORGANIZAMIONf 
fCo,,oTh.C fcT.Cai
R. S. Wilson, Jr., Pres.,
W. F. Welch, Secy.
VPJ.ToB yBPgJJ. A. Cameron, Pres.
D. C. Todd, Mgr. 
I,ePJal.CJ faPeC,a AJJCmgBi
D. P. Murphy, President 
C. F. Peters, Secretary. 
yol,Cv.C Bo,eH. E. Gumbart, Mgr., 
310 Oakland avenue 
Schenley 510-J.
VCTho,.ToB yBPgJ. R. Cline, Pres. 
Vhc yBPgH. E. Gumbart, Pres. 
Roe.c yBPgB. Hantman, Pres.
yh dh fcT.CaiW. B. Hamilton, Pres. FPBTlPm yBPgH. S. Stockdale, Pres. 
ylPT.gBC yBPg
W. W. Troutman, Pres.
Mh Ah yhdh Crump, Jr., Pres.MCTh faPe.c yBPg 
A. B. McSwigan, Pres. 
I,ePJal.oB MCoThClJ yBPg 
C. Oh RcCJJ.,v, blCJ.eC,ah 
yLUBf ANr FRAMdRNIMIdfh 
f.vmo MoP5141 Woodlawn Ave.
Schenley 9167-J.
f.vmo Rhc3400 Iowa St.
Schenley 9022-J.
BCao MhCao dpJ.Bc,
5437 Aylesboro Ave. 
Schenley 2508.
X. f.vmo UpJ.Bc,
5133 Woodlawn Ave. 
Schenley 9253.
ZCao Lomgeo dpJ.Bc,
237 N. Dithridge St.
9053 Schenley.
b. yhopaCl, MhCao X.
3890 Grant Blvd.
Schenley 9143.
WcceBow, yBPg
5137 Woodlawn Ave. 
Schenley 9020.
OphCBCPm483 Atlantic Ave.
rCBao bh.
Applied Design Building 
rCBao f.vmoIndustries Building.
Rotary Club and their wives will dine 
in the restaurant next Wednesday 
evening, and after inspecting the 
buildings, will be invited to a special 
performance of The Neighbors in 
the Design Theatre.
An investigation recently made at 
Harvard revealed the fact that the 
average amount of outside time spent 
in study by Harvard students is three 
hours per week.

---------------------------------------------------

ahf PartaitI
VRfh ROfd bAfMOR fMOKdf MO 
fbdAK AM rdfIGN MHdAMRdh
Few people in America are better 
equipped to explain how the other 
half lives, and the cause and cure of 
that condition than is Mrs. Rose Pas
tor Stokes (Mrs. J. G. Phelps Stokes).
Mrs. Stokes, born in Russia, left 
that country when she was but three 
years of age. From that time until 
she was eleven, she lived in London, 
England, with her mother who 
worked at one of the needle trades 
to support herself and her young 
child. Employment was unsteady, 
and the struggle for existence in
tense. Little Rose was compelled to 
leave school after only one and a half 
years of attendance in order to help 
earn a living.
After her mothers second marriage, 
the little family sought greater op
portunity in the United States. The 
result was that, at eleven, Rose be
came a worker in a cigar factory in 
Cleveland, Ohio. For twelve years 
she remained in the cigar factories 
of Cleveland, the little family grow
ing until they were seven children 
and two adults; and the income nar
rowing until it seemed impossible to 
live on so little. Finally the entire 
burden fell upon the shoulders of the 
cigar maker, who for the last three 
years of the twelve supported her 
mother and six little children on the 
inadequate earnings the factories af
forded.
Meanwhile, Rose Pastor used the 
night hours, when sleep was needed, 
to improve her mind, and when an op
portunity came to do work on a New 
York paper, she had already fitted 
herself to take advantage of it. Thus 
in 1902, she accepted a place on the 
staff of the Jewish Daily News as 
assistant editor of the English De
partment, and soon had her family 
settled in New York with her. Her 
salary was only fifteen dollars a 
week; but it was infinitely more than 
she was able to earn in the factory.
It was in 1903 while engaged in vol
untary settlement work after her 
days work in the newspaper office 
was over, that she met Mr. J. G. 
Phelps Stokes. Their subsequent 
marriage and espousal of the cause of 
Socialism was a nine days wonder 
the country has hardly yet recovered 
from. This fact Mrs. Stokes fre
quently points to as an instance in 
support of her contention that at bot
tom the whole country recognizes 
there are class divisions in America 
based on economic lines that are al
most insurmountable. Mrs. Stokes, 
while in New York, also took an ac
tive part in the labor union movement 
of that city.
Since 1906 Mr. and Mrs. Stokes 
have been very actively engaged in 
the propaganda of Socialism, having 
put nearly all lesser causes aside for 
what they regard as the greatest of 
all causes in the interest of human
ity. They both look upon Socialism 
as the inevitable next step in indus
trial and social evolution, the solution 
of the problem of poverty and as the 
fullest expression of industrial-econ
omic equality of opportunity and of 
social and economic justice. Mrs.
Stokes is an eloquent and convincing 
speaker, and a poet of considerable 
ability. Her message is distinctly 
well worth hearing. Mrs. Stokes will 
lecture on What the Socialists Want 
and Why They Want It.
BdMHANY rdFdAMdrh
BoJXCagoBBMCom W.,J 
yc,aCJah
O,Ctf.eCe
Before a small crowd of spectators 
Carnegie defeated Bethany College 
last Thursday night in a very one
sided basketball game, by the score 
of 40 to 27. Carnegie took the lead 
at the very outset and Bethany never 
even had a look-in. From an on
lookers standpoint the game was 
very interesting to watch as the home 
team was so far ahead that the final 
results were never in question. Car
negie played a fast snappy game and 
the visitors seemed unable to cope 
with their strong attack. The visitors 
seemed utterly unable to shoot and 
had it not been for this fact the score 
might have looked different. In fact 
Rogers seemed to be the only man 
on the team who was playing up to 
form. He played a fast game and 
landed many fouls for the visitors. 
Strange to say the first half came 
very near closing without Bethany 
being credited with any field goals. 
Hughes saved the day, however, and 
dropped one in a few seconds before 
the whistle blew.
In the second half Bethany took 
quite a brace, but with Carnegie so 
far ahead they had very little chance. 
Nevertheless, they managed to gain 
three points on the leaders.
The game was a rather rough one 
and the referees whistle blew, seem
ingly every other second. Had it not 
been for fouls the score might have 
been a great deal larger, for the vis
itors did most of their scoring by 
this method.
Captain Hines and Henning filled 
the defensive positions for Carnegie 
and played brilliant games. Both man
aged to break into the scoring list. 
Meredith and Schiffer are placed at 
the big end of the scoring, while Levy 
obtained his usual large number of 
fouls.
F.lJa HoBnh
Meredith started the scoring with 
a field goal. Levy shot a couple of 
fouls and Schiffer put one in. Rogers 
opened the visitors scoring with a 
couple of fouls. Levy tallied from the 
foul line. Rogers scored again on a 
foul. Hines made a basket and 
Meredith copped another one a sec
ond later. Levy and Rogers both 
scored on a double foul, 'then Rogers 
added three more from the foul line. 
Levy made a basket and then be in
creased his foul list by putting in 
five in a row. Henning suddenly 
broke into the scoring list and 
dropped in a couple of baskets. 
Hughes, in the nick of time, made a 
basket and saved his team from re
maining without any field goals dur
ing the first half. Score, Carnegie, 
25; Bethany, 9.
fCTc,e HoBnh
Rogers made a foul and McEvoy 
dropped in a field goal. Levy put a
Carnegie Institute of 
Technology
T
Hd yARNdGId INfMIMUMd OF MdyHNOLOGY Tc,J.JaJ cn ncPl 
JCpoloaC JThccBJ, CoTh w.ah .aJ cw, noTPBai, gP.Be.,vJ o,e JaPeC,a gceih MhC 
TcPlJCJ cn .,JalPTa.c, cnnClCe ., ahCJC ncPl JThccBJ olC:
School of Jlpplied Science. OnnClJ TcPlJCJ ., ThCm.ToB, T.v.B, TcmmCl.ToB, 
CBCTal.ToB, mCTho,.ToB, mCaoBBPlv.ToB, m.,.,v o,e Jo,.aoli C,v.,CCl.,v, BCoe.,v ac ahC 
eCvlCC cn BoThCBcl cn fT.C,TCh ABJc vloePoaC TcPlJCJh
School of Applied T)esign. OnnClJ TcPlJCJ ., olTh.aCTaPlC, po.,a.,v, eCTc
loa.c,, .BBPJaloa.c,, mPJ.T, o,e elomoa.T olaJ, cpC, gcah ac mC, o,e wcmC,, BCoe.,v 
ac ahC eCvlCC cn BoThCBcl cn AlaJh
School of Applied Industries. OnnClJ .,ePJal.oB TcPlJCJ ., moTh.,C Tc,
JalPTa.c,, gP.Be.,v Tc,JalPTa.c,, vC,CloB CqP.pmC,a o,e .,JaoBBoa.c,, o,e pl.,a.,vh 
ABJc o TcPlJC ncl alo.,.,v .,ePJal.oB aCoThClJ, BCoe.,v ac ahC eCvlCC cn BoThCBcl cn 
fT.C,TC ., .,ePJal.oB dePToa.c,h fhcla TcPlJCJ cn C.vha mc,ahJ olC cnnClCe ., 
moTh.,C Jhcp, poaaCl, moX.,v, mCTho,.ToB elow.,v, CBCTal.T w.l.,v, pBPmg.,v, 
ncP,eli, nclv.,v o,e gl.TXBoi.,v ncl mclC moaPlC oppB.To,aJ whc hovC hoe JcmC 
CxpCl.C,TC ., ahCJC aloeCJh
Margaret Morrison Carnegie School. Fcl wcmC,h OnnClJ o lCvPBol eoi 
TcPlJC cn vC,CloB alo.,.,v, w.ah pola.TPBol CmphoJ.J c, hcmCtmoX.,v, ncBBcwCe 
gi JpCT.oB.zCe alo.,.,v ., hcPJChcBe CTc,cm.TJ, JCTlCaol.oB JaPe.CJ, TcJaPmC 
CTc,cm.TJ, cl hcmC olaJ o,e TlonaJ, BCoe.,v ac ahC eCvlCC cn BoThCBcl cn fT.C,TCh 
ABJc TcPlJCJ ncl alo.,.,v cn aCoThClJ ., ahC ogcvC JPgjCTaJh
Night Courses. MhC ncPl JThccBJ cnnCl ,.vha TcPlJCJ ., ploTa.ToBBi oBB cn 
ahC ogcvC JPgjCTaJ ac plcv.eC CePToa.c,oB cppclaP,.a.CJ ncl ahcJC whc olC oa wclX 
ePl.,v ahC eoih
Fees. MhC acaoB nCCJ ncl o eoi TcPlJC olC $48h00 o iCol ncl lCJ.eC,aJ cn 
b.aaJgPlvh, o,e $58h00 ncl ,c,tlCJ.eC,aJh MhC acaoB nCCJ ncl o ,.vha TcPlJC olC 
$1uh00 ncl lCJ.eC,aJ o,e $18h00 ncl ,c,tlCJ.eC,aJh
For futher information address Registrar, Carnegie Institute 
of Technology, Pittsburgh
foul in and Rogers scored two more 
fouls. Meredith dropped the ball in. 
Rogers made a couple of fouls. Hen
ning and Schiffer each scored; then 
Levy dropped in another free shot. 
Rogers made two points on fouls and 
Levy one. Then Rogers scored his 
first field goal. Hines made a nice 
toss and the ball dropped through. 
Levy and Rogers each scored on 
fouls. McEvoy scored a field goal 
and Levy tacked on two more fouls. 
Humphries took Hennings place at 
guard for Carnegie. Rogers and 
Levy made two points apiece from the 
foul line. Schiffer dropped one in 
and McEvoy caged another. Rogers 
shot another foul, Humphries tossed 
a basket and Rogers fouled again. 
Score, Carnegie, 43; Bethany, 28.
Bethany. Carnegie.
Rogers.....................F................. Schiffer
McMillen............. .F.................... Levy
McEvoy....................C...----- Meredith
Schwalb.................G.................... Hines
Hughes.....................G............... Henning
Substitutions: Carnegie: Humphries 
for Henning.
Field Goals: Henning 4, Schiffer 3, 
Meredith 3, Hines 2, Levy, Humph
ries, McEvoy 3, Rogers, Hughes.
Fouls: Levy, 15 out of 18; Rogers, 
18 out of 27.
Referee: Mauthe, Penn State.
PLAID CLOSES SEASON
Continued from Page 1 
sorry he was for committing such 
a breach of etiquette. After show
ing himself to be a perfect gentle
man, Hinman was totally excused for 
his unusual action. Hayes starred 
for Marietta in the shooting line and 
caged six baskets. He was a clever 
dribbler and a hard man to stop.
The line-up:
Tech32. Marietta26.
Schiffer................F.................. Hinman
Levy.....................F........................ Hay-'
Humphries..........C......................... Smith
Henning..............G.................. Whiting
Hines....................G.................... Meister
Substitutions: Bogess for Whit
ing, Whiting for Hinman, Hinman for 
Smith. Field goals: Schiffer 2, Levy 
2, Humphries 5, Henning 1, Hines 2, 
Hinman 3, Hayes 6, Bogess 1, Whit
ing 1. Foul goals: Levy 8 out of
10, Hinman 4 out of 7. Referee, 
Mauthe, State.
The medical college of Harvard 
university has lowered its require
ments for entrance from an academic 
degree to two years of specific coHcg; 
work.
The Kansas State Agricultural col-Dartmoutb has made an offer to, I ,, ,, , . T u- S lege sends correspondence work toTom Keady, football coach at Lehigh,
to become baseball and basketball and more than 100 Prisoners in the Federal
assistant football coacli there. penitentiary at Leavenworth, Kansas.

---------------------------------------------------

4H}? (Hartan
y.ai Onn.TC doJa d,e Onn.TC
uI1 bC,, AvC,PC fh H.vhBo,e AvCh o,e BoPm falCCa
OfWALr WdRNdR & fONf yOh
PLAAID(OSENI WJBVIA GRB JGOSVIA B!VLRS GRB HJVGRLRS MWOCI
bl.voaC Blo,Th dxTho,vC, yoBB H.Bo,e I 1I8
Vo., Onn.TC o,e WclXJ: yclh Blio,a, fah yBo.l o,e VCBBc, fah
mens $25 styled suits at$14.50
See for yourselfthats the greatest satisfaction after all
fmola fpl.,v JP.aJao.BclCe ac pClnCTa.c,h 
ycoaJ J.BXtB.,Ce o,e J.BX goTX vCJaJh
Perfect Fittingall-wool.
JZ. BOGGS & BUHL
True
Values
M. M. C. S. NEWS
bHYfIyAL MRAINING rdVON
fMRAMIONh
On Friday night, March 19th, in 
the gymnasium, the annual demon
stration of the Physical Training De
partment will be given. A exhibi
tion of gymnastics and folk dances 
will be portrayed by Sophomores and 
Plebes, assisted by the Juniors and 
Seniors in floor games and special 
esthetic dancing. Miss Helen Harbison will repeat her Egyptian Dance 
which created such enthusiasm last 
year, and which has been rearranged 
with several new movements. Of 
special interest to basketball fans will 
be a game between the College Club 
and the M. M. C. S. varsity team. 
All girls are urged to come and see 
the fun, for the game is bound to be. 
an exciting one. So come and help 
us win.
A new feature will be the award 
of honors to the girls doing the best 
work throughout the year in gymnas
tics and dancing.
The demonstrations of previous 
years have been great successes and 
we. hope the girls will find time in 
spite of heavy schedules to come 
out and make this one just as good 
as the others have been.
MHd GUILrh
The Guild is planning a Fair to 
be held immediately after the Easter 
vacation. A committee has been ap
pointed and is working upon it now. 
Every girl in the school will be asked 
in some way to contribute to the 
success of the entertainment. Many 
novel features are being considered, 
more of which will be announced 
later.
fdyONr WddK OF HOUfd
KddbINGh
Last week was the second week of 
Housekeeping in the Little House for 
the Junior Household Economic girls. 
Monday Marion Pichel was hostess 
at dinner and had as her guest Mrs. 
Julius Pichel and Miss Shuman. Tues
day Ellen Lewis was hostess and had 
as her guest at luncheon Mr. Mathews 
and for dinner Miss McMahon and 
Mrs. Anderson. Wednesday Lila 
Gilmore was hostess and had as her 
guest at dinner Miss Murdoch. 
Thursday Sara Wolfe was hostess and 
had as her guest for luncheon Miss 
Ellen Wolfe, Miss Parry and Prof. 
Esquerre.
Friday there were no initial guests 
for either luncheon or dinner, the 
meals being served for the family 
only.
Other guests during the week at 
the house were Mr. Pichel, who called 
on Thursday afternoon, and Mrs. 
Thomas of Philadelphia, who called 
Friday.
If anyone doubts that the lights are 
turned off at eleven p. m. the Junior
H. E.s will be glad to relieve him 
upon the subject.
INMdRyOLLdGIAMd NdWfh
Princeton Frosh Rules.
It is interesting to glance at the 
rules which Princeton makes for its 
frosh:
The Princeton regulations follows:
Freshmen should not wear college 
colors in any form.
Only black shoes, sox, ties may be 
worn. Freshmen should not turn up 
their trousers or have cuffs on them. 
Shirts with soft collars are forbidden 
and fancy vests of every description 
are not to be worn.
After the nine oclock bell has rung 
in the evening, freshmen are expected 
to remain in their rooms.
The above restrictions apply until 
Washingtons Birthday only.
Until the third Saturday in May, the 
regulation head dress for freshmen is 
a black skull cap. After that date a 
straw hat may be worn.
Playing baseball or football on the 
campus is forbidden to freshmen.
Freshmen should not walk on Pros
pect avenue, McCosh walk, or the 
walk in front of Nassau Hall.
Seniority of class determines the 
possession of the sidewalk, therefore, 
freshmen are expected to get off the 
walk for every other class.
Unless accompanied by visitors 
freshmen should not occupy seats in 
the grandstand at University Field.
Freshmen are always expected to 
carry wood for the bonfire celebra
tions of important athletic victories.
Play marbles is a privilege of Jun
iors only.
Wearing silk hats is the privilege 
of Juniors and Seniors.
Spinning tops is a privilege of sen
iors only.
The Horseshoe seats in Alex
ander Hall are reserved for Seniors. 
All Sophomores and Freshmen must 
sit in the gallery.
Only Seniors have the privilege of 
sitting around the Sun Dial.
Freshmen must never walk on the 
grass.
Jewelry shall not be conspicuously 
worn by Freshmen.
Freshmen cannot wear yellow slick
ers.
Freshmen are prohibited entering 
Renwicks and Chadwicks.
Freshmen shall not smoke on the 
campus or Nassau street.
Bicycle riding is not permitted to 
Freshmen.
Brickley of Harvard has been of
fered $2,500 a season to coach the 
Ames (Iowa) College football squad.
NCw RPJh.,v RPBCJ oa W.BB.omJh
Fraternities at Williams have been 
trying out a new system of Freshmen 
rushing this year and the committee 
representing the interfraternity coun
cil there has carried it through to a 
successful finish. The new rules des
ignate certain days during which the 
Freshmen may be invited to the fra
ternity houses. Three dates with one 
fraternity is the limit laid down by 
the council and these visits cannot 
last more than two hours and a half. 
The invitations were sent to the 
Freshmen only after being approved 
by the executive committee.
The football coaching system at 
Penn State has been entirely changed. 
It provides for responsible supervis
ion and direction throughout the en
tire year, and affords the benefits of 
having Penn State graduates on the 
coaching staff without suffering the 
evils of the so-called graduate sys
tem. One member of the staff shall 
be a graduate from another institu
tion. This brings to the Penn style 
of play the best ideas of other foot
ball systems. The staff shall consist 
of head coach, an advisory coach, and 
a freshmen coach. This last named 
coach is necessary to train athletic 
material under the rule which elimi
nates first year men from intercol
legiate competition. Dick Harlow, 
Penn State, 13, has been chosen to 
fill the position of head coach.
Athletics, contrary to the enthusi
astic belief of many an alumnus, do 
not pull very strongly as a factor in 
attracting men to a particular college, 
provided, of course, one can believe 
the undergraduate in an introspective 
mood. A Dartmouth investigation 
showed only five men out of nearly 
four hundred who confessed that ath
letics brought them to Hanover. The 
influence of Dartmouth graduates and 
undergraduates was the largest fac
tor. t
The University of Michigan ath
letes have placed the ban on the use 
of tobacco at mass meetings held in 
the honor of the varsity teams. Also 
they are working to abolish all bet
ting on games, drinking after vic
tories and the use of profane language 
by members of the team. The move
ment was entirely voluntary on the 
part of the athletes and it is hoped 
that it will spread to other universi
ties.
Out of 125 men of the 1914 class 
of Williams, twelve are pursuing 
graduate work at Columbia, three in 
Brooklyn, seventeen at Harvard 
Graduate School and five in M. I. T.
Mellon National Bank
510-514 Smithfield Street 
409-413 Fifth Avenue
Capital and Surplus $8,200,000
TECH BARBER SHOP
HARRY Fh VAN yURdN 
Hair Cutting our specialty 25 Cents
UP-TO-DATE MENS FURNISHINGS
yRAIG o,e FORBdf fMh
DVJJ PEWRV TUQ IHEVRJV!
MF.FY VxpYFss & ItoYagF Co.
Vcv.,v, boTX ,v o,e facl.,v cn 
FPl,.aPlC o,e b.o,cJh GC,CloB HoPB.,v 
BovvovC ac o,e nlcm rCpca
4u1ut18ts0 HC,li fah, b.aaJgPlvh, boh
Bell Phone 2797 Cedar. P. & A. Phone 952 A
Hh Ah BdyKdR,
MUSIC HOUSE
EVERYTHING KNOWN IN MUSIC
Headquarters for Band and Orchestra 
Instruments, Music and Supplies
Ro. 6U1 Whio ItYFFt mi  B... J in HoYnFY of MiddlF N. Pittsburgh, ra.
Stevens Institute is considering 
plans for a relief fund to aid the Red 
Cross in their work in war-stricken 
Europe.
The Michigan Athletic Association 
realized $30,000 in football last fall.

---------------------------------------------------

She artan5
P. A. A. MEET
Continued from Page 1
E. Hemman, of Carnegie, took the 
lead at the outset and going at a ter
rific pace, soon had acquired a big 
lead. Finley, the second man for Car
negie, put up an excellent race and 
maintained the wide margin which 
separated him from the nearest man. 
Mason, of State, was the third man 
slated for his team, and traveling like 
the wind, he cut down Carnegies lead 
and ended a tie with Heyl, of Tech. 
Robbin, of State, took the lead away 
from Carnegie at the touch off and 
Dunseith, Carnegies fourth man, 
could not overtake him. Pitt came in 
third, with Carlisle fourth. Time, 
3:44 1-5 seconds.
In addition to this., Carnegie land
ed first place in the 60-yard handicap, 
second in the 60-yard dash M. A. A. 
championship, third in the one-mile 
handicap, fourth in the two-mile M. 
A. A. championship, and fourth in 
the 440-yard handicap.
In the 60-yard handicap trial heat 
Hemman was beaten out by a narrow 
margin by Gila Gauno, of Indiana 
Normal, with Goehring, of Pitt, third.
In the finals he covered the ground 
in 6 4-5 seconds, defeating Schmucker, 
of Peabody High, and Holland, of 
Indiana Normal.
Hemman, in addition, took second 
place in the 60-yard M. A. A. champ
ionship with Gano, of Indiana Nor
mal, first and T. G. Griffin, P. A. A., 
third.
The 440-yard handicap, Alfred Jes
sup, unattached, won, with Wenning 
of Fifth Avenue High second, Eckhardt of Peabody third, and Cressy 
Mowrey of Carnegie fourth. Time, 
54 2-5 seconds.
E. F. Cary wound up third in the 
long and strenuous one-mile handi
cap; he was beaten out by F. D. Boyn
ton, Jr., of Cornell, the winner, and 
P. A. Marz, of Canton, Ohio. Time, 
4:42 4-5 seconds.
The most difficult race of the even
ing was the two-mile run for the M. 
A. A. championship. Oliver Rieser, 
of Carnegie, was early in 'the race, 
picked to be among the winners. He 
remained either second or third and 
always a few feet behind the leader 
until the last few laps, when he was 
passed by Livermore, of Pitt, and, 
as a result ended up in fourth place. 
Joe Organ, of the P. A. A., won with 
J. J. Foley, of the Shanahan A. C., 
second. Time: 10:10.
Jack King, of the P. A. A., former
ly a Carnegie student, won the high 
jump and raised his former M. A. A. 
record one inch. He crossed the bar 
at 5 feet 10 in. W. J. Scott, of the 
P. A. A., was second with H. S. Mur
phy, P. A. A., and William Buckley, 
of Indiana Normal, tied for third.
H. F. Fry, of Pitt, won the 12-lb 
shot put, with A. E. Froesch, P. A. 
A., second, and J. B. Southerland, of 
Pitt, third.
The biggest event of the evening 
was the two-mile relay between Cor
nell, Princeton, and Pennsylvania. 
Moore, of Princeton, gained the lead 
before he had gone a half a lap and 
with some difficulty managed to keep 
it away from Irish, of Cornell. Penn
sylvania ran well for a while, but 
soon fell behind and was practically 
out of the race. Atha and MacKenzie had a tough struggle with their 
respective opponents, Hoffmire and 
Porter. Nevertheless, when it came 
time for Hayes, Princetons last man 
to run, he was bequeathed by a good
ly lead. Windnagle, of Cornell, then 
took a hand and fairly tore around the 
track. But Hays lead saved him and 
he crossed the tape first.
Dashes.
60-yard dash, handicap, first heat 
Gila Gano, Indiana Normal, first; C.
E. Hemmann, Carnegie Tech, second; 
J. M. Goehring, Pitt, third. Time, 
6 2-5 seconds.
Second heatLawrence Holland, 
Indiana Normal, first; Lewis McMasters, Pitt, second; W. R. Herrmann, 
unattached, third. Time, 6 3-5 sec
onds.
Third heatE. J. Walsh, P. A. A., 
first; John Schmucker, Peabody High, 
second; George Tibbetts, Carlisle, 
third. Time, 6 3-5 seconds.
Final heatC. E. Hemmann, Car
negie Tech, first; John Schmucker, 
Peabody High, second; Lawrence 
Holland, Indiana Normal, third; E. J. 
Walsh, P. A. A., fourth. Time, 6 4-5 
seconds.
60-yard dash, M. A. A. champion
ship, four men to qualifyGila Gano, 
Indiana Normal, first; C. E. Hem
mann, Carnegie Tech, second; T. G. 
Griffin, P. A. A., third; Lewis McMaster, Pitt, fourth. Time, 6 3-5 
seconds.
300-yard dash, M. A. A., first heat 
Silas Page, Penn State, first; W. H. 
Marble, unattached, second; T. G. 
Griffin, P. A. A., third. Time, 35 1-5 
seconds.
Second heatD. iN. Denman, W. & 
J., first; E. C. Baker, Indiana Normal, 
second; Andrew Surenda, National 
Tube Company, third. Time, 36 1-5 
seconds.
Final heatSilas Page, Penn State, 
first; W. H. Marble, unattached, sec
ond; E. C. Baker, Indiana Normal, 
third. Time, 35 2-5 seconds.
Runs.
440-yard handicapAlfred Jessup,
unattached, first; ------Wenning, Fifth
Avenue High, second; Ed Eckhardt, 
Peabody High, third. Time, 54 2-5 
seconds.
600-yard P. A. A. championship, 
first heatL. A. Cross, P. A. A., first; 
Eugene Zener, Indiana Normal, sec
ond; Harold V. Cottom, Penn State, 
third. Time, 1:19 2-5.
One-mile handicapF. D. Boynton, 
Jr., Cornell, first; Peter A. Mary, 
Canton, O., second; E. F. Cary, Car
negie Tech, third; J. J. Casey, Westinghouse Club, fourth. Time, 4 min
utes, 12 2-5 seconds.
1,000-yard, M. A. A. championship 
Sam Weitz, Mercury A. A., Phila
delphia, first; D. W. Wait, P. A. A., 
second; L. L. Hill, Monongahela 
High, third; H. Lambig, P. A. A., 
fourth. Time, 2:26 2-5.
Two-mile, M. A. A. championship 
Joseph Organ, P. A. A., first; James 
J. Foley, Shanahan C. C., Philadel
phia, second; A. R. Livermore, Pitt, 
third. Time, 2:26 2-5.
P. JLBVD(VEJ and IWR
fhcCJ o,e HcJ.Cli
bC,, o,e Flo,XJacw, AvCh dh dh
YOU LIVE IN YOUR SHOES
most of the time 16 hours out 
of the twenty-four, at least.
WHY NOT BE COMFORTABLE! 
WEVE FITTED FEET OVER 40 YEARS
Relays.
One-mile relay, openP. A. A., 
first; Indiana Normal, second; Wambaugh Collegians, third. Time, 
3:45 2-5.
One-mile relay for high and pre
paratory schoolsPeabody high, first; 
Fifth Avenue high, second; Wilkinsburg high, third; Ben Avon high, 
fourth. Time, 3:59.
One-mile relay for Pennsylvania 
collegesPenn State, first; Carnegie 
Tech, second; University of Pitts
burgh, third; Carlisle Indians, fourth. 
Time, 3:44 1-5.
Two-mile triangular relay between 
Penn, Cornell and PrincetonPrince
ton (Moore, Atha, Mackenzie and 
Hayes), first; Cornell (Irish, Hoff
mire, Potter and Windnagle), second; 
Penn (Humphreys, Hepburn, Peeso 
and Dorsey), third. Time, 8:10.
Hurdles.
60 yard championship high hurdles, 
first heatL. D. Whiting, Penn State, 
first; S. V. G. Halferty, P. A. A., sec
ond; Smith, W. & J., third. Time, 
3 3-5 seconds.
Second heatE. R. Hammitt, Penn 
State, first; W. H. Marble, unattached, 
second. Time, 8 1-5 seconds.
Final heatE. P. Hammitt, Penn 
State, first; L. D. Whiting, Penn 
State, second; W. H. Marble, unat
tached, third; S. V. Smith, W. & J., 
fourth. Time, 8 1-5 seconds.
Shot Put.
12-pound shot putH. K. Fry, Pitt, 
first; A. E. Froesch, P. A. A., second; 
J. B. Southerland, Pitt, third; Fred 
Siemen, Indiana Normal, fourth. Dis
tance, 47 feet 8 inches.
High Jump.
High jump, M. A. A. championship 
Won by J. L. King, P. A. A.; W. J. 
Scott, P. A. A., second; H. S. Mur
phy, P. A. A., and Wilmer Buckley, 
Indiana Normal school, tied for third. 
Buckley won toss of coin for third 
place. Height, 5 feet, 10 inches.
NEW ENGLAND CLUB.
The reception committee are plan
ning an informal dance to be given 
about April 19th in the Carnegie Un
ion. Watch the bulletin board.
$5.00 Meal and J 
Merchandise Ticket
Open 7 A. M. Until Midnight 
FORBES QUALITY SHOP 
Forbes & Bouquet Sts.
OoXBo,e fov.,vJ & MlPJa ych
yop.aoB $s00,000h00 
fPlpBPJ $s00,000h00 
ycmmClT.oB o,e fov.,vJ ATTcP,aJ 
fonC rCpcJ.a BcxCJ ncl lC,a
CHRISTMAS SAVINGS CLUB 
now forming
FJWMVOI FWO GJJ WHHGILWRI
Ro,ecBph PL VTyBCmC,aJ
FLORAL dXbdRMf
59Iu bC,, AvC,PC
NCol H.vhBo,e AvCh
BRAyd BROfh
LoP,eClClJ, riClJ yBCo,ClJ
MRdNMON AVdNUd 
WILKINfBURG
BCBB bhc,C, W.BX.,J sI
MHd rh Lh AULr yOh
OF yOLUVBUf, OHIO
Vsta.lishFd 1871 
Wfficial JFwFlFYs to thF PYincipal FYatFYnitiFs and 
HlassFs. MakFYs of Hlass Oings and Pins 
b.aaJgPlvh RCplCJC,aoa.vC
RdGINALr MUMHILL 
s0I OB.vCl BP.Be.,v BCBB bhc,C Glo,a 8I8
XJ.C.Bragdon
yOVV dRyg\L bHOMOGRAbHdR 
WOOryUMf,ZINy dMyHING,HALFtMONd
mmms dNGRAVdb S
t5,0'7IIPtNN A.VL PITTSBVKafl.P/l'^^ s
__________D
HOMdL
fyHdNLdY
Barber Shop k Pool Room
NEW TABLES AND NEW MANAGEMENT
PEWRVs!Q!6Q}IHEVRJV!
Wakland fx. & AYansfFY Ho.
Trunk and Bdggdge Delivery
ss9 AMWOOr fMh

---------------------------------------------------

tlje (Eartatt
DESIGN SCHOOL NOTES
One of the most unique and inter
esting problems yet assigned to the 
Class A men, of the department of 
architecture, is now demanding their 
keen attention. It is the fourth 
projet of the year and is a treat
ment of decoration of the banks of a 
river flanking a natural waterfall.
The students of dramatic art of the 
Design School have shown remark
able talent in the production of a 
unique and interesting comedy en
titled, You Never Can Tell. This 
comedy is the work of Bernard Shaw 
and was under the personal direction 
of Mr. B. Iden Payne, of Manchester, 
England. This comedy was so keen
ly appreciated by its Saturday night 
audience that it was reproduced Tues
day evening for the student body. 
The dramatis personae were as fol
lows:
Mr. Valentine...Charles H. Meredith
Dolly Clandon................Betty Brown
Phillip Clandon.. .Harold D. Munnis
A Maid ..........................Inez M. Krebs
Mrs. Clandon...............Alicia Guthrie
Gloria Clandon ..........Doris Williams
Mr. Crampton........Charles H. Duffy
Finch McComas .................................
......................Theodore H. Viehman
William, the waiter ............................
..................................C. Frederic Stein
Jo, another waiter... .John W. Burke
Bohun ............................Howard Smith
The comedy was given in four acts 
affording stage settings of supreme 
effect and ranking high in decorative 
workmanship.
INMdRtbLdBd fVOKdRh
Fellows, keep an eye open for this 
event. During the last few years each 
class has given a smoker, either 
singly or co-operatively and they have 
been the marks of the good fellow 
spirit throughout the whole Insti
tutes history.
However, committees from the De
sign and Science schools have already 
been appointed and they are to hold 
a few consultations to arrange for the 
smoker. The Design committee con
sists of G. G. Grulick, R. C. Orr and 
Geo. A. Cook. This committee, in 
conjunction with the Science men, are 
planning to make the smoker the most 
unique and entertaining one ever en
joyed at C. I. T. The band will be 
out, plenty of eats will be served, and 
an endless chain of amusement will be 
arranged for the event. The Science 
committee was Messrs. Gage, Craig 
and Lippincott.
The University of Michigan ath
letes have placed the ban on the use 
of tobacco at mass meetings held in 
the honor of the Varsity teams. Also 
they are working to abolish all bet
ting on games, drinking after victor
ies and the use of profane language 
by members of the team. The move
ment was entirely voluntary on the 
part of the athletes and it is hoped 
that it will spread to other univer
sities.
A FAMHdR MO HIf fONh
My Dear Son:I am writing a few 
things I meant to say to you when 
we took our last walk together, the 
day before you left for Yale. I in
tended to say them then, and I will 
confess that I shamelessly inveigled 
you into taking a stroll on the quiet 
street that I might rehearse a care
fully prepared bit of Chesterfield upto-date; but somehow I could not 
seem to begin,and after all, perhaps 
I can write what was in my mind 
more freely than I could have spoken 
it.
I think I had never realized before 
that I was getting old.
Of course I have known that my 
hair is causing your mother much 
solicitude, and that I am hopelessly 
wedded to my pince-nez while read
ing my daily paper, and at the opera; 
but in some incomprehensible way I 
had forgotten to associate these trifles 
with the encroachments of time. It 
was the sudden realization that you 
were about to become a freshman in 
the college from which, as it seems to 
me, I but yesterday graduated, that 
froze the genial current of my soul, 
and spared you my paternal lecture.
Why, I can shut my eyes and still 
hear the Ivy Song, as we sang it 
that beautiful June morning; and yet 
but a few nights more and you will 
be locked in the deadly Rush on the 
same field where I triumphantly re
ceived two blackened eyes, and, I 
trust, gave many more!
Another thing, thrilling in itself, 
opened my eyes to the fact of my 
advancing years.
My son, my loyal and affectionate 
boy, some dy it may be yours to 
know the pain, the unreasonable pain 
that comes over a man to know that 
between him and his boy, and his 
boys friends, an unseen but unassail
able barrier has arisen, erected by no 
human agency; and to feel that while 
they may experience a vague respect 
and even curiosity to know what ex
ists on your side of the barrier, you 
on your part would give all,wealth, 
position, influence, honor, to get back 
to theirs! All the world, clumsily or 
gracefully, is crawling over this bar
rier; but not one ever crawls back 
again!
You have ever seemed happy to be 
with me! you have worked with me, 
read and smoked with me, even played 
golf with me; but the subtle change 
in your attitude, the kindling of your 
eye when we met young men of your 
age, is. the keenest pain I have ever 
known; yet one which, God knows! 
I would not reproach you with.
It explains what I used to see on 
my fathers face and did not under
stand.
For the tyranny of youth, my son, 
is the one tyranny which never has 
been, never can be overthrown. Noth
ing can displace it, nothing shake its 
power.
I usually beat you at golf, and oc
casionally at tennis; I suppose that 
if we were to spar together I still 
might make a respectable showing, 
and at least save my face. It avails 
nothing. I am on my side of the bar
rier, you on yours.
It seems but a year and a day since 
I tucked the ball under my arm and 
sped down the gridiron, sustained by 
the veils of my partisans; and if our 
game lacked the machine-like preci
sion of the mass formations you are 
already somewhat familiar with, it 
was a good game, and we were good 
men, and all on the right side of the 
barrier!
So bear with me if I pause a mo
ment and gaze back across this inev
itable gulf into the pleasant land that 
lies behind me,a picture evoked by 
your dawning college career.
I would not have you think me re
gretful or melancholy. Life has been 
good to meand every age has its 
gifts for the man who is willing to 
work for them and use them temper
ately. And nothing is more ungrace
ful, more ludicrous, than the spectacle 
of one who attempts to linger over 
the pleasures of an age he has out
lived, and ignore the advantages of 
his own time of life.
Yet, as the years bring weakness, 
the mind persistently drifts back to 
the earlier periods of life, until the 
aged actually enter a phase we not 
inaptly name second childhood, 
from which Heaven forefend me!
I can still appreciate a pair of 
sparkling blue eyes, and I am not 
oblivious to the turn of a pretty 
shoulder; although I devoutly trust 
that my interest is now impersonal, 
and merely artistic.
I can still do my 18 holes of golf 
well under 85, and 1 think I shot last 
fall as well as ever in my life; but 
I must admit, sadly but not rancorously, that I much prefer my com
fortable grandstand seat to my old 
position of half-back, and I should 
not be willing to run at top speed for 
a quarter of a mile, except upon a 
matter of great moment.
And so, comfortably situated upon 
my side of the barrier, let me, my dear 
son, who have spared you so much 
elderly wisdom (more, I fear, because 
I have hitherto been blissfully un
aware of my own seniority than from 
any conscious motive) let me, I say, 
indulge in a few customary parental 
warnings to you at this time. I trust 
they will not be hackneyed, and I 
know that they will be sincere.
Some fathers say to their sons upon 
the first home leaving,Beware of 
wine and women! I do not.
If your home life has not taught 
you the virtues of a temperate, clean 
life, as I hope, then no words of mine 
can do it, and you must learn, as too 
many others have, from a bitter inti
macy with its antithesis.
As to women, I never avoided 
them; I sought them out, from the 
time when, a red-cheeked youngster, 
I trudged to school beside a red
cheeked lassieasleep these many 
years in the little village lot where 
lie so many with whom I fought and 
played these many years gone by.
I have no advice to offer you on 
this great subject; its ethics are not 
taught by letter. If I have any re
grets, they are not for your ear, nor 
any mans. And if, of some women 
I have known, I cannot say that I 
have lifted them up, at least of no
Continued on Page 7
ARROWSHIRTS
ncl CvCli cTToJ.c,h ycBcl noJavPolo,aCCe Joa.JnoTaclih I,J.Ja c, Allcwh
$1h50 Pp
Cluett, Peabody & Co., Inc. Makers 
yAC Standard of Excellencettttttttttt
Macdonalds
NdW LOyAMION 
535 Liberty Avenue 
FclmClBi s08 f.xah fah
Candies, Ice Cream 
Dainty Lunch, &c. 
L.gClai yBCo,.,v o,e 
blCJJ.,v ych
I01 fh ylo.v fah yclh cn W.,ahlcp fah 
BCBB bhc,C fThC,BCi I09
Goods called for and delivered.
Wh Oh BRdyKON
fMUrIOf
Forbes and Atwood Sts.
bhc,CJ I1u0tI1u1 fThC,BCi 
fpCT.oB pl.TCJ ac MCTh faPeC,aJ
ENTERPRISE PRESSING COMPANY 
Cleaners and Dyers
bClnCTa WclX ., Loe.CJ, yh.BelC,J o,e
HcPJChcBe WclXh
Oriental Rugs and Draperies a Specially
OWWM 401 VGIA VRB AO(IA DJBS.
bHONFft ! ^ffire 449 Hiland rHUINt-S. 1 Works: 4912 Hiland
Yccl yclJovC BcPqPCa
YcP wo,a .a plCaai gPa ,ca CxpC,J.vC Nc 
PJC ac poi $I whC, $1 cl BCJJ w.BB o,
JwCl ahC pPlpcJCh GCa icPl ,Cxa c,C oa
HARRIf dROf' Wpp. OosFn.aumNs
OAKLANr VARKdM
Meat, Butter, Eggs and 
Groceries, Tea and Coffee
DFll PhonF 710 IchFnlFy 0*71 O H J c*P & G PhonF T85 PaYk 0/i4 YoY.Fs Wt.
Iron City Electric Co.
Everything Electrical
711 Grant Street
(BCawCC, fCvC,ah o,e L.gClai AvC,PC)
The original copy of America 
was recently given to Harvard, is now 
on exhibition at that institution. It 
is highly prized by the college for its 
historical significance.

---------------------------------------------------

(Ity arlatt7
SCIENCE SCHOOL NOTES
VHO yLUB HAf INMdRdfMING 
VddMINGh
A NATIONAL INSTITUTIONBlcw,.,v, K.,v & ych
yLOMHING, FURNIfHINGf ANr HAMf FOR VdN, BOYf ANr yHILrRdN
439-441 WOOD STREET
On Wednesday night, March 10th, 
the Mho Club had one of the most 
interesting meetings of this year. 
The program consisted of a discussion 
of the trip to Niagara Falls, which 
was taken Inspection Week.
The speakers were chosen from 
among the men who handed in 
the best reports. All of the 
papers were well presented, the most 
interesting one being of course Mr. 
Adolfzens description of the NonTechnical Features of the Trip, in 
which he described everything as one 
continuous marathon and blamed Mr. 
Dennison for running too much. Mr. 
Hirai also gave a very good account 
of the graphite company.
Owing to the length of the pro
gram the business of electing officers 
was put over until Monday, March 
15. The complete program follows:
Erie Co. Elec. Co.; Niagara Street 
Substation and G. E. Works at Erie, 
by Messrs. Ashe and Gower.
Niagara Falls Power Co.; Canadian 
Niagara Falls Co.; Acheson Graphite 
Co.; and Carborundum Co., by 
Messrs. Gumbart and Hirai.
Non-Technical Features of the 
Trip, by Mr. Adolfzen.
Ontario Power Co.; Hydro-electric 
Power Commission; International 
Paper Co., and Shredded Wheat Co., 
by Messrs. Stevenson and Trautman.
Hydraulic Power Company and U.
S. Light and Heating Co., by Mr. 
Gleason. (Owing to Mr. Gleasons 
absence these plants were taken up 
extemporaneously by Messrs. Hefner 
and Hantman.
VHO yLUB dLdyMIONfh
On Monday, March 15, the Mho 
Club held its semester election of of
ficers. The results of the election 
were as follows:
President, H. E. Gumbart.
Vice President, D. L. Trautman.
Secretary, M. J. Wohlgemuth.
Treasurer, P. B. Harwood.
Faculty Adviser, Prof. Wm. Work.
Executive Committee, C. Ettle, T. 
J. B. Lee, H. F. Gibson.
Athletic Representative, C. V. Do
herty.
yRUyIBLd yLUB VddMINGh
The Crucible Club held their regu
lar monthly meeting Wednesday, 
March 10th. The speaker was L. G. 
Huntley, 08, his subject being For
eign Oil Fields. Mr. Huntley is a 
consulting geologist, has traveled over 
this continent from Alaska to Bolivia 
and related many of his interesting 
experiences during the lecture, using 
lantern slides and photographs to il
lustrate his points. He was intro
duced by Prof. Griswold.
At Dartmouth a record is made of 
the careers which the entering class 
intend to follow. In the class of 1918, 
business and law seem to be the fav
orites.
A FATHER TO HIS SON
Continued from Page 6
woman can it be said that I thrust 
her down!
I ask of you no more than this and 
the guidance of your own heart; that, 
in the latter years, when you, too, 
pass over the barrier, you may not 
leave behind you shadows on the 
flower-decked meadows of your 
youth.
You will probably play cards in col
lege; most men do,I did. The gam
bling instinct in man is primordial. 
Kept under due bounds, if not useful, 
it is at least comparatively harmless. 
This is the very best that I or any 
honest man cay say of it. I should 
be glad if you never cared to gamble; 
but I do not ask it. Assuming that 
you will, I do not insult you, and 
myself equally, by warning you 
against unfairness; to suppose you 
capable of cheating at cards is to 
suppose an impossibility. You could 
not do so without forfeiting the right 
ever to enter your home again. But 
some careless and insidious prac
tices, not unknown in my day and 
class, savor to the upright mind of 
cheating, without always incurring its 
penalties.
To play with men whom you know 
cannot afford to lose, and who must 
either cheat or suffer privation; to 
play when you yourself must win 
your bet to square yourself; that is, 
when you do not reasonably see how 
you are going to'raise the money to 
pay providing you lose,this is a 
gamblers chance to which no gentle
man will expose his fellow players.
There is nothing heroic about these 
desperate casts of the die; one risks 
only the other fellows money. These 
practices I ask and expect you to 
avoid.
I ask nothing of you in the way of 
a declared position on religion. Your 
mother may have demanded more of 
you here,entreated more; I cannot. 
I ask but this: that you will give earn
est, serious consideration to the fact 
that we exist on this planet for a 
shockingly brief fraction of Eternity; 
that it behooves every man to dili
gently seek an answer to the great 
question,Why am I here? and then, 
as best he can, to live up to the ideal 
enjoined by his answer. And if this 
carries you far, and if it leads you to 
embrace any of the great creeds of 
Christendom, this will be to your 
mother an unspeakable joy, and per
haps not less to me; but it is a ques
tion which cannot be settled by the 
mere filial desire to please.
Last of all, while you are in college, 
be of it and support its every health
ful activity.
I ask no academic honor your nat
ural inclinations may not lead you to 
strive for; no physical supremacy 
your animal spirits may not instinct
ively reach out and grasp.
You will, I presume, make the fra
ternity I made, and, I hope, the socie
ties; you will probably then learn 
that your father was not always a dig
nified bearded man in pince-nez and 
frockcoat, and that on his side of the 
barrier he cut not a few capers which, 
seen in the clear light of his summer,
gain little grace. Yet, were he to 
live his life over again, he would cut 
the same, or worse.
Finally, if you make any of the 
teams, never quit. That is all the 
secret of success. Never quit!
Quitting, I like to believe, has not 
been a striking characteristic of our 
family, and it is not tolerated in our 
college.
If you cant win the scholarship, 
fight it out to the end of the examina
tion.
If you cant win your race, at least 
finishsomewhere.
If your boat cant win, at least keep 
pulling on your oar, even if your eye 
glazes and the taste of blood comes 
into your throat with every heave.
If you cannot make your five yards 
in football, keep bucking the line 
never let up,if you cant see, or 
hear, keep plugging' ahead! Never 
quit! If you forget all else I have 
said, remember these two words, 
through all your life, and come suc
cess or failure, I shall proudly think 
of you as my own dear son.
And so, from the home-like, fare
well, and Godspeed! '
Your Affectionate Father.
Yale Alumni Weekly.
$100,000 having been granted to the 
University of Iowa by the state board, 
a new dental building will be started 
at once.
After 18 months work the addition 
to the University of Pennsylvania 
Museum, costing about $300,000.00 has 
been almost completed.
The Green and White of Ohio 
University, boasts of exceptionally 
good college spirit this year. Their 
college band was present at every 
home game.
Freshmen fussers are to be card in
dexed at the University of Colorado. 
1 he relation between their fussing 
and their studies is expected to be 
obtained by this means.
The students of Yale have raised 
enough money to purchase two ford 
ambulances at $650 each to be used 
for hospital service in Paris and 
Munich.
The Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology gives away $23,000 annu
ally in the form of scholarships.
OUR yLdANING VdMHOrf ARd 
fIVbLd BUM RdfULMFULh
In cleaning clothes we use materials 
that clean without injury to the fabric. 
This care taking process is more 
costly to us than the ordinary meth
ods employed to clean clothes, but 
we find it pays to serve our patrons 
in the most efficient manner. See 
SHUMAN, 3911 Forbes St.
Adv.
DONT TAKE 
CHANCES 
WITH YOUR
bl.,a.,v
Place it with 
the shop that is 
thorou ghly 
familiar with your wants and that 
has always given the Tech students 
clean-cut, attractive printing, prompt 
and efficient service at reasonable 
prices____
THE BLAIR COMPANY
Fourth Floor, Bindley BuildingSeventh Avenue and New Grant St.
yHOyOLAMdf
OUR VdffdNGdR
FOR dAMf
COME TO US
We Want to furnish the baked goods 
for your Frat. May we?
MHd HALLdR BAKdRY
in the center of the Iroqucis Block OAKLAND
HARVARr LOfdf yOAyHdfh
Harvard will be minus at least 
three of its football coaching staff 
next fall. Tommy Campbell, who was 
to be head coach of the backfield, has 
just signed to handle the Bowdoin 
eleven. Leo Leary, Haughtons right 
hand man and in charge of the ends, 
has decided to pass up coaching for 
his law business, and Bob Fisher, in 
charge of the guards, has also decided 
to spend more time at business. 
Brickleys decision to coach at Johns 
Hopkins robbed Harvard of another 
possible football mentor.

---------------------------------------------------

artatt
yLAffIFIdr LIfM OF MARMAN ArVdRMIfdRfBn/nceCl, Mlo,TCJ
SH IRTJl^^r^ lnd Jl^r privlHr
Rh dh JAyQUdf
(ABB yoJaBCJ WclX)
Forbes and Craig Sts. Pittsburgh
Wh fh BROWN
Wood Street and Oliver Avenue
PITTSBURGH, PENNA. 
Cutlery, Athletic and Sporting Goods
V.BBClJ RCJaoPlo,a
5J4 fm.ahn.CBe falCCa
V.BBClJ yonCaCl.o
5s0 fm.ahn.CBe fah, b.aaJgPlv
Desks, Macey Sectional Bookcases 
Interfiling Cabinets and 
Cabinet Supplies
Jh Gh VARfHALL yOh
959 L.gClai AvC,PC
NOMdr LdyMURdR yOVINGh
On Thursday afternoon at 4:00 
oclock, Mrs. Rose Pastor Stokes, of 
New York, will deliver an address 
in the Design School Theater.
Mrs. Stokes is speaking under the 
auspices of the C. I. T. Economic 
Society, and the meeting will be open 
to the students and the public.
MHd ALVINh
Quite the biggest, funniest, and 
most sensational Winter Garden 
show ever offered is Dancing 
Around, the musical spectacle which 
comes to the Alvin Theater for one 
week, beginning Monday, March 22.
MHd GRANrh
Edith Taliaferro, the famous sister 
of the equally famous star, Mabel 
Taliaferro, is to make her vaudeville 
debut at the Grand Opera House, on 
next Monday afternoon, March 22nd, 
in a one-act by Tom Barry, entitled, 
A Breath of Old Virginia. The Le 
Grohs, the Four Amaranths and var* 
ious other feature specialists will con
tribute to this program.
MHd rAVIfh
The forthcoming attraction at the 
Davis Theatre for the week of March 
22nd, beginning with the usual Mon
day matinee, will be musical comedy 
The Yankee Consul. It is a rollick
ing, jingling comedy, with a great 
deal of pretty music and many in
tensely humorous situations. Added 
interest will naturally attach to the 
presentation of the comedy because 
it will be unlike anything that Mr. 
Daviss company has so far presented. 
There are good singers in the com
pany, all of whom have had training 
and experience in plays with music.
MHd bLUGGdRh
In school and college and club, and 
in the world of affairs, the plugger is 
a man marked for admiration. His 
tribute, however, does not come in the 
shape of a hearty slap on the back, 
nor is he proclaimed a social lion and 
sought after as a source of entertain
ment. It is he to whom men come 
for advice, and it is he who serves 
on committees and gets behind 
movements for the common good. 
Often he is imposed upon. Take the 
school play, for instance. A few bril
liant persons conceive the intention 
of parading their histrionic talents 
for the honor of their class or so
ciety or the school. In the rush of 
enthusiasm, the plugger is over
looked. Something in his stolid ways 
disqualifies him for consideration. 
But a play without a theater and 
lights and an audience is no play. 
In this dilemma, the plugger finds 
himself a very necessary person. He 
is called upon for help, and great em
phasis is laid on the distinction of 
being a party to a project of such 
magnitude. After due consideration 
be accepts, and then his die is cast. 
Of course he succeeds. That was 
taken for granted when his name was 
first mentioned; and thereafter he be
comes known as the owner of a secret 
trick by means of which projects of a 
rather visionary nature are consum
mated. In his studies he never 
shines or flashes. Rather he glows 
steadily and can always be depended 
on for a spark to light the skyrockets 
which his fellows send up at examina
tion time. This reputation he carries 
through the next few years. His em
ployers or teachers come to regard 
him as dependable, but hardly prom
ising. In time, however, he forges 
ahead by the indirect process of suf
fering less persistent, men to lag be
hind. Those who once looked upon 
his friendship as merely an incident 
now come to regard it as a rather 
agreeable habit; and once it is culti
vated a little, they find the ground be
neath the surface rich in those things 
which contribute to a substantial un
derstanding of life. And as the years 
accumulate about the plugger, he 
takes his place among those stolid 
men who, though they remain amen
able to persuasion and are not averse 
to what is new, are nevertheless firm 
in the knowledge that they form the 
link by which the present is suspend
ed from the past, and that the link 
must not be imperiled by the strains 
of impetuous radicalism.Indianap
olis News.
At the sixth annual interfraternity 
conference held at University Club, 
New York, reports from seventy-five 
institutions showed that since the in
auguration of the interfraternity con
ferences, fraternities are exercising 
a wholesome influence on college life. 
While some institutions reported no 
change, none reported a baneful influ
ence.
The Poughkeepsie regatta will be 
held on June 28. It is probable that 
Wisconsin will not be represented on 
the Hudson this year.
Bo,XJ
The Mellon National Bank, Smith
field and Fifth.
The Oakland Savings & Trust Co., 
Vanadium Bldg., Oakland.
BolgClJ
The Schenley Hotel Barber Shop.
The Tech Barber Shop, Craig and 
Forbes Sts.
BccXg.,e.,v
Andrew G. Wirth, 109-111 Federal 
St., N. S.
yBoJJ b.,J o,e JCwCBli
D. L. Auld Co., see Mr. Tuttull, 
Oliver Bldg.
yBCo,.,v o,e blCJJ.,v (rCB.vCli 
fClv.TC)
Enterprise Pressing Co., Highland 
Bldg., E. E. Phone 449 Hiland.
Liberty Cleaning and Pressing Co., 
Craig, near Forbes St. Tel. 
Schenley 309.
Oswald Werner arid Sons, Bryant 
and St. Clair Sts., E. E. Tel., Hi
land 1138.
J. E. T. Shuman, Forbes, near Boquet St., Oakland. Tel., Schen
ley 874.
yBcah.,v
Boggs & Buhl, Federal St., N. S.
. Browning, King Co., 441 Wood St.
Strassburger & Joseph, Federal St., 
near Ohio, N. S.
yc,nCTa.c,ClJ
Forbes Quality Shop, Forbes and 
Boquet Sts., Oakland.
Haller Bakery, Oakland.
McDonalds, 208 Sixth St.
Reymers, Fifth Ave., downtown, 
Penn Ave., E. E.
C. M. Stauft, Forbes and Atwood 
Sts., Oakland.
ro,T.,v AToeCm.CJ
Jacques, Craig and Forbes.
McDougall, 4616 Forbes St., Wood 
and Fifth, Shady and Penn Aves.,
E. E.
rCpolamC,a faclCJ
Boggs & Buhl, Federal St., N. S.
rloPvhaJmC,J, Ala.JaJ o,e d,v.
,CClJ fPppB.CJ
Geo. L. Kopp, Smithfield and Sev
enth, upstairs one flight.
Kurtz, Langbein & Schwartz, oppo
site McCreerys.
Eugene Dietzgen Co., 80S Liberty 
Ave., 2nd floor.
FBcl.JaJ
Randolph & McCIements, Penn, 
near Highland, E. E. Tel., Hi
land 25.
FPl,.aPlC
Boggs & Buhl, Federal St., N. S.
J. G. Marshall, 959 Liberty Ave.
What is considered to be the finest 
gymnasium in the south is now in 
process of erection at Washington 
and Lee.
University of Kansas has the dis
tinction of having the first woman 
cheer leader in the world. Miss Eliza
beth Morrow assisted in directing the 
yells at the Kansas-Missouri game.
GlcTCl.CJ o,e VCoaJ
Oakland Market, 3714 Forbes St.
HogCleoJhCli
Aufhammer & Evans, 6100 Penn 
Ave.
Boggs & Buhl, Federal St., N. S.
Browning, King & Co., 441 Wood 
St.
Cluett-Peabody Cos, shirts and 
collars.
Heimerts, Oakland.
Miller & Co., 3723 Forbes St., Oak
land.
Strassburger & Joseph, Federal St., 
N. S.
HolewolC
Oakland Hardware Co., 3606 Forbes 
St.
LoP,el.CJ (rCB.vCli fClv.TC)
Brace Bros., Wilkinsburg. Tel.
Vcv.,v b.TaPlC MhCoalCJ
The Cameraphone, Penn Ave., E. E.
VPJ.ToB I,JalPmC,aJ
H. A. Becker, 601 Ohio St., N. S.
W. F. Frederick, 635-637 Smithfield 
St.
bhcacvloph fPppB.CJ
Alexanders, Sixth St., opp. Alvin 
Theatre.
b.TaPlC Flom.,v o,e Ala faclCJ
Alles-Davis Co., Fifth and Atwood 
St.
The Modern Art Store.
bl.,a.,v o,e d,vlov.,v
John C. Bragdon, 711 Penn Ave.
fhcCJ
Boggs & Buhl, Federal St., N. S.
P. Ludebuehl & Son, Penn and 
Frankstown Aves., E. E.
Geo. H. Stoebener & Son. Penn and 
Frankstown Aves., dh dh
fpcla.,v GcceJ
W. S. Brown, Wood St. and Oliver 
Ave.
McgoTTc,.JaJ
C. M. Stauft, Forbes and Atwood 
Sts., Oakland.
faPe.cJ
W. O. Breckon, Forbes and Atwood 
Sts.
Mlo,JnCl o,e faclovC
Oakland Ex. & Transfer Co., 229 
Atwood St.
Webber Express and Storage Co., 
4616-20 Henry St. Tel., Schen
ley. 239.
MipCwl.aClJ
The Remington Typewriter Co., 102 
Sixth St.
The Underwood Typewriter Co., 
Liberty Ave.
Brickley, of Harvard, has been of
fered $2,500 a season to coach the 
Ames (Iowa) college football squad.
William W. Roper, former head 
coach of Princeton university football 
team, will coach the Swarthmore 
team next season.
The student body of Hamilton Col
lege recently voted to abolish hazing.
