THE ANNUAL HOME (ONERT
CLUBS READY FOR FINAL TEST
MUSKINGUM IS 
LEFT BEHIND
VARSITY WINS AFTER ALMOST 
LOSING.
. Although playing erratically, the 
Varsity managed to defeat Muskingum 
on Friday night, February 27, to the 
tune of 39 to 27. The game, played 
on the floor at the Field House, was 
fast and interesting, and the home 
team had the visitors completely out
classed in all parts of the game except 
the first part of the second half. This 
was due, no doubt, to the Carnegie 
boys taking advantage of a comfort
able lead and loafing on the job. The 
loaf did not last long and they pulled 
oUt well ahead in the end.
Colvin played the most sensational 
game of the season. Early in the first 
period his opponents elbow closed 
Puss left eye but this did not impair 
his activities. His shooting was a big 
improvement over that showed in pre
vious games, and his floor work was Of 
the best variety.
Continued on Page 3
The Ninth Annual Home Concert of 
the Carnegie Musical Clubs will be 
held Friday evening, March the 13th, 
at Carnegie Music Hall and will eclipse 
all previous home concerts ever held 
by a very wide margin.
Those who heard the splendid 1913 
Home Concert will no doubt be sur
prised to hear that this years club has 
planned to surpass it in all respects. 
The program, which is printed in full 
below, not only has several exception
ally classic selections but the original 
humorous numbers will appeal to all. 
It was said by one of the directors that 
more work and unceasing application 
has been put on this club than on any 
club in this institution heretofore. This 
is a splendid criterion to go by be
cause when a body of students work 
like this, ultimate success is assured.
Since November the clubs have been 
giving concerts in the various cities 
and towns in Western Pennsylvania
and each place in which they have ap
peared, they have been greeted by 
crowds which actually taxed seating 
capacity. The clubs gave their first 
concert at Wildwood, Pa. This was 
followed by the one at Marshalsea, 
and then at Hazelwood. The Univer
sity Club Concert followed where the 
men were given a banquet after the 
program. Homestead was the next 
place to receive them, and an enthus
iastic audience left the building well 
pleased. Then the long to be remem
bered inspection week trip was taken, 
when the clubs appeared before crowd
ed houses in both Erie, Pa., and War
ren, Pa. This trip was followed by the 
McDonald trip, where the over zeal
ous police force tried to interfere with 
the home coming of some of the mem
bers. Last week came the New Brigh
ton concert, an account of which is in 
Continued on Page 5
SCIENCE SCHOOL 
WINS Mltr
TAKES FIRST PLACE WITH 46 
POINTS.
For the first time in the three years 
that the outdoor board track has been 
in use, it staged a match among the 
three mens schools. Although called 
an indoor meet, it was largely an out
door affair. Science repeated history 
and won the meet with 46 points; In
dustry placed second with a score of
21 points; and Design, with a small 
squad, finished third with 17 points.
The track events, with the exception 
of the 60-yard dash, which took place 
in the gym, were run off on the out
door track. The sight of athletes in 
running togs sprinting around a narrow 
track, which was entirely enclosed by 
two feet of snow, was incongruous, but 
the warm sun tempered the breeze that 
fanned the bare knees of the runners, 
and conditions were not as uncomfort
able as they appeared. All of the field 
events took place inside.
Continued on Page 6
Vol. VIII. No. 22 Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania March 5, 1914
o r<arlan
MUSICAL CLUBS ISSUE
MUSICAL CLUBS 1913-1914

---------------------------------------------------

2QJhe ariatt
Sh? Slartau___
Published weekly by Undergradu
ates of the Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
Business communications should be 
addressed to the BUSINESS MAN
AGER; all articles should be sent to 
-.he EDITOR-IN-CHIEF.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
Yearly $1.50. 5c per Copy
Entered in the Post Office of Pitts
burgh as second class matter.
Chas. E. Gilson, *14.. Editor-in-Chief
G. Guy Kelcey, 14........Business Mgr.
W. H. Searight, '16.. Managing Editor
C. B. Kline.....................Athletic Editor
Ruth Gubtil, 14...M. M. C. S. Editor
A. H. McGill, '14...........Science Editor
Carl C. Manchester, *16.Design Editor
J. M. Parke, 14___Industries Editor
Wm. M. Sheldon, 15.Exchange Editor
D. L. Mathias, 14.Staff Photographer 
A. Cowan, 15...Asst. Business Mgr.
E. S. Rauh, 15..Asst. Athletic Editor
Harold Knight, 16....................Reporter
P. N. Bossart, 16........................Reporter
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible 
for the editorial policy of this paper; 
the Managing Editor for the news 
items and general make-up.
PITTSBURGH, PA., MAR. 5, 1914
SEANNACHIE ELECTIONS.
H. D. Balsinger, Science 15
E. R. Haselton, Design 15 
W. F. Welch, Science 15 
R. S. Wilson, Jr., Science 15
A CORRECTION.
Owing to a most unfortunate error, 
there appeared in last weeks Tartan a 
statement that Manager Wright had 
invited the members of the Ways and 
Means Committee to act as chaperons 
for the dance following the Muskingum 
game. Naturally the impression given 
was that these ladies had agreed to act 
as chaperons. As a matter of fact, 
they did not so consent; indeed, they 
wish it understood that, owing to the 
more or less public nature of dances 
of this sort, they find it impossible to 
approve of such affairs. We regret 
that such a mistake should have oc
curred, but we trust that the above 
statement will make clear the correct 
attitude of the ladies of the faculty to
ward these deplorable dances.
THE BASKETBALL DANCES.
The first basketball dance which 
aroused comment was the one follow
ing the Pitt game on our floor. At that 
time certain couples were so thought
less as to indulge in dances which, to 
say the least, were in decidedly bad 
form. After this dance, it was under
stood by many students that no more 
dances of this nature would be allowed.
However, last Friday after the 
Muskingum game, there was another 
dance. We will say for Manager 
Wright that he announced at the start 
that only the Waltz, Boston and TwoStep would be allowed on the floor, 
and, thanks to the efficient work of the 
Floor Committee, the dancing was 
kept within bounds for most of the 
evening. Only a few dances which 
could be objected to were noticed. But 
towards the end of the evening, there 
were seen two or three cases of the 
most flagrant nature. As one man 
stated after the dance, What was 
bad, was really bad.
It seems unfortunate that these 
dances should be held at all. Consid
ering the fact that they are more or 
less public, (that is, any person who 
buys a ticket can gain admission to 
the game), it will doubtless be impos
sible to prevent certain men present 
from overstepping the bounds of pro
priety. We would like to think that 
the violations of the rule last Friday 
were only by outside parties; but in at 
least two instances we know that such 
was not the case. We can only hope 
that student sentiment in the two 
schools to which these men belong 
will be so strong against them that 
the men will not dare to repeat the of
fense.
But this sentiment, while of great 
influence on our own students, will 
be of no avail against the rank and file 
of the general public, who may under 
the present arrangement come to the 
game and stay for the dance. Of 
course any bad violations of decency 
can be punished by compelling the 
offenders to leave; but such measures, 
though sometimes necessary, are al
ways regrettable.
If these dances are to continue, we 
would like to see some arrangement 
made, whereby only students and their 
ladies will be allowed on the floor, and 
then the dances may be properly chap
eroned. We know if this is done and 
the students realize that they alone 
are responsible for the good name of 
the school, they will be very careful 
of their actions on the floor. If some 
such arrangement cannot be made, 
then it would be far better to discon
tinue the dances, than to harm the 
reputation of our school and its stu
dent body.
THE STAG DANCE.
With reference to the stag dance 
which is to be held in Machinery Hall 
on Saturday evening, March 7, let us 
first explain that dancing will not nec
essarily be the only entertainment for 
the evening. There will be something 
to interest every man present. This is 
one of the first opportunities that the 
four classes of the Science School have 
had to meet each other in a social way, 
and we hope that every man in school 
will profit by the opportunity.
Not only do we have the chance to 
meet our fellow students; the faculty 
of the Science School will also be pres
ent and we are to have the pleasure of 
making their acquaintance. As we 
have said before in The Tartan, per
sonal acquaintances with members of 
the faculty, combining as it does a
knowledge of and respect for their 
views and an admiration for their in
tellectuality, is one of the greatest 
benefits a man can gain from his col
lege or university career.
We have not had many opportuni
ties in the past to become acquainted 
with the faculty, not because of indif
ference on their part but rather be
cause the students did not seem to 
realize the good that would come to 
them from such intercourse. Now we 
hope all this is to be changed. We 
have the opportunity; let us profit by 
it.
Then besides we may learn to know 
each other. How many Seniors know 
a majority of the Plebe class? Very few 
we think. This self-centered class in
terest is not good for school spirit 
nor for the welfare of the student 
body. The Senior Class ought to be 
interested in the moral and mental 
welfare of the underclassmen, especial
ly those who have come to Pittsburgh 
for the first time, and are unfamiliar 
with the conditions and life of a large 
city. On the other hand, the under
classmen should get to know the Sen
iors and Juniors, who have perhaps 
solved the very problems that they 
themselves are just encountering. We 
are all Carnegie men; but the Plebe 
looks to the Senior for his example, 
and if the Senior does not know the 
conditions and circumstances of the 
Plebe, how can he help his lower 
classmate?
That Saturday will be an enjoyable 
evening no one can doubt. Many will 
come, of course; but we want all to 
come. We desire that these advan
tages be shared by the entire student 
body of the Science School. If one 
man stays away we miss the pleasure 
of his acquaintance, and he too may 
miss something of school life which 
he ought to know.
A DOUBTFUL PRECEDENT.
Last week there appeared in The 
Tartan a notice to the effect that stu
dent organizations wishing to purchase 
more than $54.00 worth of tickets for 
the Home Concert might have a pref
erence in the sale of seats, the largest 
buyers having the first selections. On 
the face of it, this may seem a valuable 
scheme to avoid crowding and annoy
ance in the line when the box office 
opens. But we are afraid that the 
Musical Clubs management did not 
realize the evil effects of the arrange
ment.
According to the announcement, the 
student organizations are given privi
leges, which the other students cannot 
have. This seems to us particularly 
an unjust discrimination between fra
ternity men and non-fraternity men. 
For example, it is comparatively easy 
for one fraternity to buy $54.00 worth 
of tickets for their own members, and 
possibly other organizations than fra
ternities can do the same. But what 
can the new man in school or the non
fraternity man do? He must simply 
wait patiently and see the good seats 
taken, being of necessity content with 
what is left after the organizations 
have had their selection.
Many students in the Industries
School have complained to us about 
this ruling, and we think they are jus
tified. Doubtless there are just as 
many men in the other schools who 
will suffer from the same discrimina
tion.
We do not believe that the undemo
cratic principle of such an arrange
ment was realized by the Musical 
Clubs; but we hope they will now com
prehend how harmful it is to the dem
ocratic ideals of our institution, and 
we trust that such a policy will not be 
continued in future years.
MR. WILLIAMS RESIGNATION.
It was with deep regret that we 
learned of the acceptance by Mr. Ralph 
W. Williams of the Secretaryship to 
The Harvard Club of New York City. 
Our regret, to be sure, was selfish, 
for we realized in a measure what his 
absence would mean to the student 
body. Mr. Williams became, as As
sistant Secretary of Carnegie, a part 
of the daily life of the students, the 
faculty and many of the alumni, and 
now that he is absent from his accus
tomed place we have come to a fuller 
realization of the loss to ourselves and 
to the community.
As Assistant Secretary and from his 
association with some of the student 
activities he naturally came into con
tact with practically everyone connect
ed with this institution and because of 
his pleasing manner toward all and 
his courteous handling of even the 
most disagreeable cases he won a host 
of warm friends.
We take this opportunity of express
ing our appreciation and that of the 
student body to Mr. Williams for his 
many kindnesses and for the organi
zation of the Bureau of Student Aid 
which developed to such a high degree 
of efficiency under his apt supervision.
The Tartan wishes the new Assist
ant Secretary, Mr. Redding, all suc
cess in his new work and assures him 
of its co-operation at all times.
(Editorial Note:We are always glad 
to receive and print communications 
such as the following. On no sub
ject do we believe our opinions to 
be infallible and we are glad to learn 
of other views on subjects of school 
interest. We do not agree with all 
the arguments advanced; but we 
leave it to the students to decide for 
themselves. Only one point let us 
make clear, that is, that in last weeks 
issue we did not argue for an abol
ishment of the Prom, but only for 
a modification of it.)
Editor in Chief of The Tartan.
Dear Sir:
With due respect for your opinions 
as expressed in last weeks Tartan in 
the editorial entitled The Junior 
Prom I beg to take exception.
You state that 47 per cent of the 
Junior class were present at the Prom 
last year and that the percentage at 
this years affair was considerably less. 
The Prom last year was the most suc
cessful as regards attendance and 
financial result that has ever been held 
Continued on Page 3

---------------------------------------------------

tye ariatt
Editorials
Continued from Page 2 
at Carnegie and it does not seem to me 
that a comparison with the superlative 
is justifiable as an argument for the 
abolishment of the function. The 
statement of attendance also seems to 
indicate an opinion that, if at least 
fifty per cent of the Juniors are not 
present, the affair will not be repre
sentative of their class. May I suggest 
that under such an assumption we have 
not a single activity in Carnegie which 
represents the student body because 
there are never fifty per cent of the 
students present at any athletic con
test, the Thistle and Tartan are not 
supported by half of the student body 
and the other activities are in the same 
position.
Now if thirty or forty per cent see 
fit to carry on the activities of this 
institution should they be deprived of 
such a function as the Junior Prom 
because the other sixty or seventy per 
cent fb.il, as usual, to put in an appear
ance? Some, it is true, would like to 
come but cannot because of the ex
pense but the proportion is small, if 
the participation in activities by the 
large percentage who are usually con
spicuous by their absence at athletic 
contests, where they do not have to buy 
a ticket, may be taken as evidence. 
The great trouble with a larger num
ber of the student body is a lack of in
terest in anything but their daily work, 
hence I do not believe their absence 
from any function may be taken as an 
argument for the abolishment of that 
function.
MHO CLUB ELECTION.
The monthly meeting of the Mho 
Club was held Wednesday evening, 
February 24, in room 104, Machinery 
Hall; and, by the unique process of 
nomination by ballot, elected a new 
slate of officers. They follow: 
President, R. E. Dunbar 
Vice President, A. M. Stevenson 
Secretary, A. D. Moore 
Treasurer, T. J. B. Lee 
Executive Committee, Claude Ettele, G. C. Minor, C. V. Doherty.
Although no report on the proposed 
club supper was received, plans were 
discussed, and the idea is to make the 
affair thoroughly electrical in appoint
ments, toys, pamphlets, and other 
junk as expressed by Diehl. Since, 
four or five ballots were neces
sary for one office, there was no time 
for speakers. After appointing an 
auditing committee composed of Diehl, 
Lee, and Bossart, the meeting ad
journed to go up higher and eat.
SCIENCE SOPHS DEFEAT 
PLEBES.
Muskingum Left Behind
Continued from Page 1
The guards, Hines and Douthett, 
were also in good form. Most of their 
work was offensive, being filled with 
passing, but in defense they shone as 
they have in most of the games of the 
year.
The scoring started on fouls, each 
side tallying once. Montgomery shot 
a field goal and followed with a foul, 
while Colvin was making good from 
the foul line. The score was tied at 
four points each, then Muskingum took 
a lead, holding it till 6 to 5 was tallied. 
From then on, the home team spurted 
ahead and at the end of the half led
24 to 17.
The Muskingum five came back at 
the beginning of the second half and 
reduced the lead to 26 to 24 before the 
home team took them seriously. The 
scare worked, however, and the game 
ended with a big majority in favor of 
the Plaid.
The line-up:
Carnegie Tech39 Muskingum27.
Levy.........................F..........Montgomery
Tumpane................F.............. Arnold
Colvin......................C........................ Aiken
Hines.......................G................... Sinclaire
Douthett.................G.................. Atkinson
Substitutions: Henning for Levy,
Hunter for Atkinson. Field goals: 
Tumpane 3, Colvin 5, Hines 3, Douth
ett 4, Montgomery 4, Arnold 2, Aiken
3. Foul goals: Colvin 9 out of 14, Sin
claire 2 out of 5, Montgomery 7 out of
13. Refereei' Mauthe. Timer: Tillbrook. Scorer: Kline. Score of first 
half: 24 to 17, Carnegie Tech.
We recommend the merchants
Owing to the withdrawal from the 
league of Beta Theta Epsilon, whose 
place will be taken by Woodlawn Club, 
only one indoor baseball game was 
played last week. It proved as did the 
preceding contest to be a slugfest for 
the winners. This time the Science 
Sophs humbled the Science Plebes, 16 
to 6.
Notice is hereby given that the fol
lowing games are on the schedule for 
the coming week:
Thursday, March 5thSigma Rho vs.
Science Plebes.
Tuesday, March 10thTheta Xi vs.
Sigma Rho.
Thursday, March 12thScience Plebes 
vs. Woodlawn Club.
At a meeting of the Science Plebes 
on Tuesday, February 24th, the follow
ing officers were elected:
President, L. W. Sherwood 
Vice President, P. B. Harwood 
Secretary, M. A. Hopkins 
Treasurer, T. E. Orr.
THE ALVIN.
Second and Final Week of Within 
The Law.
Owing to the phenomenal success of 
Within the Law, which opened at the 
Alvin Theater, Pittsburgh, Monday 
night, it has been decided to hold this 
great drama for another week to meet 
the extraordinary demand for seats. 
The second and final week will there
fore begin Monday evening, March 9, 
and theatergoers are advised to se
cure their seats as early as possible to 
obtain choice locations.
HOME CONCERT, Friday the 13
1 i First and Second Tenors 
13    Basses
13    Mandolins
13 In all the other parts 
Present Clubs started 1913 and we hope to see you 
at Carnegie Music Hall at 8:15 P. M. March 13
THE
OUR 65th 
Anniversary Sale
Can be as profitable to the readers 
of this paper as each sees fit to 
make it.
It can supply the needed New Spring Suit, the New 
Spring Hat (and the Summer Panama, too,) New Spring 
and Summer-weight Underwear, Hosiery, Shirts, Cravats 
and other seasonable furnishings for men, as well as many 
interesting things of a general character, at special Anniver
sary Prices which mean dollar and cents savings to the 
purchasers.
This Sale Has One More Week To Run, 
Ending Saturday March 14th.
Joseph Horne Co.
The Modern Store
PITTSBURGH
advertising in the Tartan as the best in town. They will give you the best prices and quality.

---------------------------------------------------

4typ artatt
M. M. C. S. NEWS
SGN. GREGORIO SCALZO.
An announcement has been made 
of the engagement of Miss Mary Brunot Roberts, daughter of Col. Thomas 
Parshall Roberts, to Lieut. Francis 
Rosier Newcomer, Corps of Engi
neers, U. S. A., now stationed at Wash
ington, D. C. The announcement was 
made at a prettily appointed luncheon 
given Tuesday by the Misses Roberts 
at their home in Aiken avenue, in 
honor of their sister.
Owing to the death of Dean Breeds 
father a general assembly was called 
at noon Friday, February 27th, in M. 
M. C. S. at which it was decided that 
a representative should be sent from 
each class to the funeral. Also that a 
message should be sent to Miss Breed 
expressing the students sympathy 
towards her in her great sorrow, and 
that flowers should be sent by the stu
dent body.
The Senior Class of M. M. C. S., out 
of respect to Dean Breed, has post
poned their dance which was to have 
been held March 6.
The Sophomore Class of M. M. C. S. 
postponed their dance which was to 
have been held Friday evening, Febru
ary 27, until March 13, out of respect 
to Miss Breed.
NEW BRIGHTON PLEASED BY 
CONCERT.
Last Friday night the Musical Clubs 
traveled by special car to New Brigh
ton, leaving Union Station at 5:30 p. 
m. and arriving at the Beaver Valley 
town just in time to sit down to a 
fine supper at the Clyde House. All 
enjoyed the repast at this hostelry 
except Shrimp McKee, who said 
that he was turned down by a cer
tain individual of whom he asked fa
vor. This may have been a minor de
tail with some, but with Shrimp it 
was a matter of importance.
The concert was held at the First 
Presbyterian Church before a crowd 
of 600 people. They were thoroughly 
pleased with every number on the 
program and especially so with the 
octette, Just for Fun, which takes 
well everywhere. In the afternoon at 
the High School, Mr. Shutz, pianist, 
with Mr. McNulty and Mr. Bruckner, 
soloists, gave a very satisfactory re
cital to the students. They were well 
entertained by some of the High 
School boys at sled riding after school.
The men returned to Pittsburgh via 
the Pennsy, arriving here at 1 a. m.
The old system of using a heated 
iron and dirty cloth presses the grime 
and dirt into your garments. Our 
sanitary machine steams it all out, and 
removes permanently the dirt, per
spiration, odor and grime. See Shu
man, the Dry Cleaner, 3911 Forbes 
street.Adv.
Sgn. Gregorio Scalzo, the director 
of the Mandolin Club, began his musi
cal career as a boy in Normina, Italy. 
His wonderful work on the mandolin 
soon gained for him a name as a Vir
tuoso, and at the age of 14 he toured 
southern Europe and the larger cities 
of southern Europe in the capacity of 
mandolin soloist with remarkable suc
cess. Returning to Germany he im
mediately started upon a course in the 
Conservatorium at Leipzig, where he 
studied violin, harmony conducting. 
While at the Conservatory Sgn. Scalzo 
started the now famous Sylvestin Man
dolin Club of Leipzig, and was one of 
the first to put mandolin music in Ger
many, its present high status. During
SGN. GREGORIO SCALZO
his 6 years course at the Conservator
ium he gained much recognition as a 
mandolinist and was called upon to 
play for the royalty upon numerous 
occasions. After graduating Sgn. 
Scalzo toured South America as a vio
lin soloist and teacher, making bril
liant successes in Rio de Janiero, 
Buenos Aires, Porto Allegro. Some 5 
years ago Sgn. Scalzo came to the 
United States, and after a brief stay in 
New York, came to Pittsburgh, where 
he appeared in such organizations as 
the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra, 
the Pittsburgh Festival Orchestra and 
the Dr. Borker Quartette. In 1910 Sgn. 
Scalzo became director of the Car
negie Mandolin Club and has been very 
instrumental in bringing the clubs up 
to their present high standard. Among 
his compositions are The Tech 
Waltz, Souverin des Alfes, Mazurla, the first mentioned having been 
club numbers. Sgn. Scalzos wonder
ful ability as a mandolinist and con
ductor will be fully demonstrated at 
the Annual Home Concert. We are 
fortunate to have him with us.
WE HAVE THE NEW ONES IN SHOES
STOEBENER
Man with the Shoes
6227 Penn Ave.East End. 6222 Frankstown Ave.
City Office 
631 Penn Avenue
East End Office 
S. Highland Ave. and Baum StreetOswald Werner & Sons Co.
Pittsburgh's Oldest and Largest Dyeing and Cleaning Works
New Private Branch Exchange, Call Hiland 1138 
Main Office and Works: Cor. Bryant, St. Clair and Mellon Sts.
A NATIONAL INSTITUTIONBrowning, King & Co*
CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS AND HATS FOR MEN BOYS AND CHILDREN
439-441 WOOD STREET
HOTEL SCHENLEY
ROMAN H. HEYN, PresidentTHOMAS J. KARAS, Manager
r I ''HE place where all Entertainments, Banquets and 
^ Social Functions of the Carnegie Institute of Technology and its Fraternities are being given.
Try our 50c Luncheonthe finest obtainable in 
the City of Pittsburgh, served daily in our Rathskeller.
CARNEGIE VERSUS GROVE 
CITY.
Bethany Plays Here Saturday Night.
HOME CONCERT 
Starts 8:14 Sharp B There
We recommend the merchants advertising in the Tartan as the best in town. They will give you the best prices and quality.
The next two basketball games will 
be return engagements, both oppon
ents having been met earlier in the 
season. The Varsity will journey to 
Grove City tomorrow to repeat, we 
hope, the defeat handed the college of 
that town two weeks ago. That occa
sion was one of the few this year on 
which Tech showed its true form and 
the result was an easy victory. The 
first game against Bethany was a dif
ferent story. It developed into a see
saw affair with Tech on the high end 
at the finish by the close margin of 
two points. On our own floor Satur
day night, there should be no causes 
for such an exciting ending. We should 
win with a comfortable lead.
Including this weeks contests, but 
four remain on the schedule. Of these, 
three will be played at home. So far 
the team has an average lower than 
.500 but by a supreme effort on the 
part of the players and additional en
couragement from the students, the 
seasons percentage may be boosted 
to that mark by victories in three of 
the final games, or above it, if the four 
games are won. Saturdays contest at 
the Field House will begin promptly 
at 8:15 oclock and you are expected 
to be in your seat at that hour.
BRACE BROS. 
LAUNDRY
BENTON AVENUE 
WILKINSBURG
Bell Phone, Wilkins 23
ENTERPRISE PRESSING COMPANY 
Cleaners and Dyers
Perfect Work in Ladies, Childrens and 
Household Work.
Oriental Rugs and Draperies a Specialty 
203 Highland Bldg. Pittsburgh, Pa.
Phones: Office 449 Hiland Works: 4912 Hiland
R. E. JACQUES, Teacher
of Dancing and Deportment 
COR. CRAIG AND FORBES STREETS 
PITTSBURGH. PA.
Bell Phone 91 24-R Schenley 
Vice President of the International Association Masters of Dancing
The upper classmen all patronize us 
Plebes, Come over and get acquainted 
Hair Cutting our specialty 25 Cents
Harry F. Van Coreas 
TECH BARBER SHOP
Craig and Forbe* Street, Pittsburgh, Pa.

---------------------------------------------------

(III? (Tartan5
True Values B. & B. True Values
for caps at lowest prices
For style, quality and durability you can depend on any cap 
purchased here.
We carry only reliable goods and the prices are the lowest quoted 
anywhere.Boggs AN Bahl,
Pittsburgh, Penn'a.
Forbes Quality Shop
Corner Forbes and Bouquet StreetLUNCHES
CANDY, SODA, CIGARS, MAGAZINES
The Annual Home Concert
Continued from Page 1 
this issue. The final concert which 
put the men on edge for the Home 
Concert will be given this week, Fri
day, at Edgewood, and Saturday at the 
Hotel Schenley. As a result of these 
concerts the clubs have been moulded, 
both departments of which display ex
cellent ability, unifying in every detail 
in musical harmony. Everywhere flat
tering press notices have appeared 
which plainly represents the opinion 
of some of the best musical critics in 
the state, some of these notices are as 
follows:
This excellent program included 
classical musical numbers of a lighter 
vein and many humorous selections of 
typical college dash. Good Night, 
by the Glee Club, showed exquisite 
blending of voices while the Mando
lin Club under direction of Signor 
Scalzo rendered a faultless program in 
a wholly artistic manner.Erie Daily 
Times, Erie, Pa.
Few college musical organizations 
have ever visited Warren who could 
have delighted a more enthusiastic au
dience more than did the Carnegie 
Musical Clubs last night at the Library 
Theatre. This troupe of 35 members 
gave a program which was roundly 
applauded and one which met with an 
accordant tone with all who appreciate 
good music.Warren Mirror, War
ren, Pa.
Many more notices of similar na
ture could be listed here but on account 
of space the number must be limited.
The Glee Club under Mr. McDowell 
this year has entered into the rendi
tion of some of the more classical 
selections, although interspersed in the 
program are numerous humorous num
bers to balance the classical with the 
up to date variety of college glee 
music. Some of the better class num
bers sung by the Glee Club are Good 
Night, by Buck, Autumn Words, 
by Gaines, Song of the Vikings, by 
Fanning, etc. While Mgubeer Van 
dunck, Dark Brown Lady Sue, etc., 
are the kind that bring you back to
earth with a hearty laugh.
It is needless to say that anything 
Mr. Scalzo has picked out for the Man
dolin Club to play on that night will 
be worth going miles to hear. The 
Mandolin Club under his capable direc
tion are producers of the highest type 
of stringed instrument music not even 
second to a Symphony Orchestra. 
They have perfected the execution of 
several new operatic selections and 
deliver them with an ease and grace 
of professionals. Mr. Scalzo is surely 
proud of the work of the clubs and 
says there are other good clubs but 
they lack the finish we have here. The 
numbers most popular in the program 
are La Fille de Regiment, Donizetti; 
Because, Shyotte; Cale di Mare, 
Pastori-Rusca; Light Cavalry over
ture, Suppe, etc.; Unpeu dAmour is 
one of the more popular numbers on 
account of its recent publication and 
takes heartily wherever heard.
One must hear these numbers given 
by both clubs in order to appreciate
them. The opinion of the concert can
not bp made justifiably by the man who 
sits at home by the fireside and sees 
the account of the concert in the Sat
urday morning papers. He must be 
there propped up in a plush seat at 
Carnegie Music Hall, March 13th, with 
his ears and eyes open, alert to the 
faintest sound and movement. It can 
be well stated that no excuse can be 
offered by any student to be absent 
from this concert. It is held on a Fri
day night, the last of the week, a night 
on which few students stay in to study. 
There is only one attraction open for 
Tech students that night and that is 
the Home Concert. Those who go will 
feel as much at home as if they were 
in the class room. All the fellows will 
be there. You can slap your class 
mate on the back and call him old 
top. At the same time pushing out 
your chest to show your tile front. 
Some of the Plebes who have never 
heard a Tech Home Concert want to 
feel confidant in going up to the box 
office and demanding a ticket. This is 
one of the social functions in which all 
underclassmen are eligible to go to,
they being entitled to the dance at the 
Hotel Schenley afterward, providing 
they hold the pasteboard and $1.50 
tickets, which admits all to the dance.
The sale of tickets by students in 
the various departments started Feb
ruary 22, and will continue to Wednes
day, March 4th. These tickets are ex
changed for reserved seat coupons at 
the Industries School from March 4th 
to March 10th, after which on March 
11th and 12th they will be on sale at 
Hamiltons music store on Wood 
street, and also at Carnegie Music Hall 
on the night of the concert.
After the concert the dance will be 
held at the Hotel Schenley and will be 
limited to 100 couples, the tickets will 
be issued only to those who have the 
.best seats. Clubs and organizations or 
any individual wanting to purchase 
seals in large orders over $54.00 will be 
accommodated as explained in last 
weeks issue. This sale is at the same 
time as seat sale and at same place. 
Alumni who wish to, can order by mail 
or otherwise and will receive special 
attention.
STUDENT IN HOSPITAL.
L. A. Sawders, student in the Lower 
class, School of Applied Industries, 
was taken to the hospital last Wednes
day and operated upon. A committee 
from his class consisting of Messrs. 
Gloekler, Warner and Nauman vis
ited him last Friday afternoon and took 
boquet of flowers. It was feared that 
the illness would be very serious, but 
latest reports show a considerable im
provement.
ARE YOU INTERESTED?
In a clear enunciation and correct 
pronounciation of English? It is of 
paramount importance in every career 
and contributes to success.
Having had a large experience in 
teaching along this line, and with grat
ifying results, particularly among for
eign college men I confidently offer 
my services to any who may require 
such instruction.
SARA E. SIMPSON,
312 Biddle Ave., 
Wilkinsburg, Pa. 
Bell Tel. 726-L Wilkins.
The Genuine Step of
Tango, One Step, Maxixe 
and Hesitations 
McDOUGALL DANCING ACADEMIES
4616 Forbes St., and Shady and Penn Aves. 
SPECIAL TANGO CLASS MONDAY EVENINGS
THE D. L. AULD CO.
MANUFACTURING JEWELERS 
AND STATIONERS Colunbus, B>s!on, Philadelphia, Chicago, Pittsburgh 
FRATERNITY BADGES, CLASS PINS AND RINGS 
ENGRAVED INVITATIONS 
DANCE PROGRAMS
REGINALD TUTHILL 
Representative for Penna. Bell, Hiland 1 121R
P. O. Box 984 PITTSBURGH. PA.
STUDENTS
Try one of our SPECIAL Tailor 
made suits at $18.00. Young Mens New Style for Spring.
Quite Classy You, will feel Sassy 
in our Made to Measure Suits. 
Fromc. A. HEIMERT 
Mens Outfitter
3614 Forbes Ave. Iroquois Block, Oakland 
Established in Pittsburgh in 1882
Present this AD and we will allow you one dollar on your Spring 
Tailor made Suit.
The Oakland 
Savings & Tfast Co.
The Oakland Bank
VANADIUM BUILDING
Capital $200,000.00
Surplus $200,000.00
Deposits over $1,700,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
The Hotel Schenley Barber Shop
solicits your pationage. Our service is 
second to none at the regular prices 
M. J. Chemoff, Proprietor.
OFFICERS OF THE MUSICAL CLUBS
We recommend the merchants advertising in the Tartan as the best in town. They will give you the best prices and quality.

---------------------------------------------------

afje alaran
R. J. McDOWELL.
Mr. Robert J. McDowell, director 
of the Glee Club, is well known in 
musical circles in Pittsburgh as a di
rector and teacher. His work with the 
numerous large choirs and choral so
cieties with which he has been con
nected, proves Mr. McDowell is a man 
of exceptional ability. While in Prince
ton University Mr. McDowell first
gained a name for himself as a tenor 
soloist in the Glee Club, in his senior 
year he was made student leader of 
the Glee Club, a great honor conferred 
only for a display of exceptional abil
ity. Following his graduation from 
Princeton University, Mr. McDowell 
became a member of the famous 
Moody Quartette of Chicago, 111. Later 
he appeared as a soloist in a great
Science School Wins Meet
Continued from Page 1
Hemmann was the star of the meet, 
winning a total of eleven points by tak
ing two firsts and a third. Although 
he won the 20-yard dash, his running 
in the 220-yard dash was more credit
able. He sprinted all of the way and 
finished in the remarkable time of 24
1-5 seconds.
Haselton showed versatility by win
ning both the 440-yard run and the 
two-mile run. The latter was expected, 
but the former race had been conceded 
to one of the sprinters. The quarter 
was run in :56, which makes a good 
mark for the track Haselton also set 
a low record for the two-mile when he 
finished in 10:54. This is a good local 
mark for a cinder track, but gains added 
prestige by being run on boards. Camp
bell showed that good things may be 
expected of him in the distances by 
sticking close to Haselton in the twomile race and finishing a good second. 
Campbell also won the one-mile run, 
beating MacMillan after a close race 
in a sensational sprint on the stretch. 
The time, 5:05 1-5, shows that the 
running was fast.
Vierheller placed third in the scor
ing with nine points to his credit.
number of cities and was always wel
comed as a brilliant entertainer. For 
the past few years Mr. McDowell has 
been teaching, directing, and conduct
ing large choral societies, and at pres
ent is the director of the East Liberty 
Presbyterian Church Quartette, and a 
number of other universal organiza
tions. Mr. McDowells untiring ef
forts and enthusiasm have done much 
to put the Glee Club in its present
well-trained condition. All the stu
dents know Mr. McDowell and remem
ber the zeal and life he puts into our 
singing at mass meetings. Friday 
evening, March 13th, Mr. McDowell 
will certainly ieceive more praise than 
ever for his excellent work when the 
Glee Club appears in such numbers as 
The Song of the Vikings, Good 
Night and Autumn Woods.
These were earned by taking first in 
the high jump, second in the broad 
jump and third in the 20-yard dash. 
MacMillan and Campbell tied with 
eight points each, and Kirk, by taking 
second places in both of the short 
dashes, gained six points.
The object of the meet was to draw 
out material for the indoor meets and 
start the training for the Spring 
events. Coach Dull was well pleased 
with the number of men that partici
pated and with the class that was 
shown.
The Industries did not enter a team 
in the relay race, and the Science and 
Design ran it out. Physical Director 
Eyman entered a team, but the other 
three runners withdrew during Mr. 
Eymans second lap. Design was 
awarded three points for winning.
The summaries:
20-yard dashWon by Hemmann, 
Ind.; Kirk, Science, second; Vierhel
ler, Science, third. Time :02 4-5.
220-yard dashWon by Hemmann, 
Ind.; Kirk, Science, second; Langfelter, Design, third. Time :24 1-5.
440-yard dashWon by Haselton, 
Design; Rauh, Science, second; Krebs, 
Science, third. Time, :56.
880-yard runWon by MacMillan,
Science; Findlay, Ind., second; Handlman, third. Time, 2:12 1-5.
One-mile runWon by Campbell, Sci
ence; MacMillan, Science, second; 
Rieser, Science, third. Time, 5:05 4-5. 
Two-mile runWon by Haselton, De
sign; Campbell, Science, second; Rie
ser, Science, third. Time, 10:54.
Eight-lap relayWon by Design; 
Science, second.
High jumpWon by Vierheller, 
Science; Walrath, Design, second; 
Blumenthal, Ind., third. Height, 5 feet.
Broad jumpWon by Patterson, 
Science; Vierheller, Science, second; 
Hewlett, Ind., third. Distance, 17 feet, 
7.8 inches.
16-pound shot putWon by Parke,
Ind.; Clair, Science, second; Hem
mann, third. Distance, 32 feet, 1.8 
inches.
Event Science Design Indus.
20-yard ................. 4 0 5
220-yard ............... 3 1 5
440-yard ............... 4 5 0
880-yard ............... 6 0 3
1 mile ................... 9 0 0
2 mile ................... 4 5 0
8-lap relay...........0 3 0
High jump ......... 5 3 1
Broad jump .... 8 0 1
Shot put ............. 3 0 6
Total .................46 17 21
MR. WILLIAMS RESIGNS.
The resignation of Mr. Williams 
from the position of Assistant Secre
tary became effective on March 1st. 
He has left to become Secretary of the 
Harvard Club in New York City. Mr. 
Williams came to Carnegie in 1909, as 
an Instructor in the School of Applied 
Industries. The following year he 
was made Assistant Secretary, and 
took charge of the organization of the 
Bureau of Student Aid, which he de
veloped to a high degree of efficiency. 
His resignation will be a great loss to 
the School.
Mr. Redding has been appointed to 
succeed Mr. Williams. Redding grad
uated from Washington and Jefferson 
with an A. B. degree in 1913, and in 
September of the same year became 
an instructor in English in the Indus
tries School. He is a capable man, and 
will take up the work of Mr. Williams 
immediately.
CIRCUS REHEARSALS.
There will be a special gymnasium 
class opened on Saturday mornings for 
preparing clowns, tumblers and acro
bats for the annual Spring Circus. 
These classes will start at 10 oclock, 
the first being held next Saturday. All 
of the students who were in school last 
year remember the fun caused by the 
first circus and will look forward to 
the event of this Spring. In order to 
make it larger and better a number of 
new men are required and Saturday 
mornings will give excellent opportuni
ties for training.
HOME CONCERT
HEAR THAT VARSITY QUARTETTE
ARROW
SCOLLARCluett, Peabody & Co., Inc. Makers
Sporting Goods, Cutlery, 
College Pennants, 
Banners and Pillow Tops.
MILL HUNTER (0.
4J4 Wood Street.
BELL PHONE 239 SCHENLEYWeber Express & Storage Co.
Moving, Packing and Storing of 
Furniture and Pianos. General Hauling
Baggage to and from Depot
4616-18-20 Henry St., Pittsburgh, Pa
FLOWERS fORALLOCCASIOaS
Randolph AN McClements
FLORAL EXPERTS 
5936 Penn AvenueNear Highland Ave.
s C. M. STAUFT 2SP o(5 Stationery, News, Etc. 3>
Gentlemans Watches ^ and Repairing. ~-
5. 3702 Forbes St. Pittsburgh, Pa. j?
Mellon National Bank
514 Smithfield Street
409 Fifth Avenue
Capital and Surplus $8,200,000
Handsome homes, congenial 
surroundings, healthful location and 
convenience to all places, all com
bined in
SCHENLEY FARMS
Liberty Cleaning and 
Pressing Co.
301 S. Craig St. Cor., of Winthrop St. 
Bell Phone Schenley 309
Good* called (or and delivered.
the best prices and quality.We recommend the merchants advertising in the Tartan as the best in town. They will give you
R. J. McDOWELL

---------------------------------------------------

Ottp tartanr
INDUSTRY STUDENTS ORGAN
IZE ASSEMBLY.
A spirited mass meeting of the stu
dents of the School of Applied Indus
tries was held at the time scheduled 
for lecture on Wednesday afternoon, 
February 25th. The meeting was pre
sided over by Mr. Hartman and a care
fully worked out program' served as a 
prelude to the organization of a School 
of Applied Industries Assembly.
Mr. McDowell was on hand and 
started the meeting with some lively 
songs, interspersed by yells led by 
Cheerleader Randal. Vocal solos by 
Merker of the Teachers^ course and 
McNulty of the Lower class were very 
well received. The presiding officer 
then outlined the purpose of the meet
ing and called upon a number of the 
students to speak on subjects of par
ticular interest.
N. A. Hollister, manager of the Mus
ical Clubs, just happened to drop in 
and he was called upon first and he 
spoke upon the coming Home Concert. 
Phil More, editor in chief of the 
Thistle, next put forward the claim of 
this annual publication as a matter of 
general co-operation by all students 
of all the schools. The athletic situa
tion at Carnegie was cleverly handled 
by J. R. Price, of the Upper class, and 
member of the Board of Control. C.
F. Peters, of the Lower class, reported 
on a meeting of the baseball managers 
held during the past week, in which 
plans for the coming season were dis
cussed. He also took the occasion to 
make a few timely remarks upon Car
negie Spirit of which the following is 
an extract:
I have been asked to say a few 
words regarding spirit, real college 
spirit. When we see a man plodding 
along the street with a stove-piped 
hat dented and cocked on one side, 
and his swallow-tails swinging behind 
his irregular course we generally re
mark, Oh, hes full. Thats very true, 
and incidentally hes full of spirits, just 
chuck full of spirits, the only trouble 
lies in the fact that hes too full of the 
wrong kind of spirits.
The School of Applied Industries 
seems to be in the same position. We 
have spirit here, not the kind that 
sends us along the street cutting cir
cles, but the kind that we need, real 
Carnegie spirit. Weve plenty of it, but 
the trouble is this spirit lies dormant. 
We cant pull it out. Just as soon as 
we get this enthusiasm its nothing 
more than that, started then we are 
going to do for the Industries what 
every member of this School wants 
to have (ft>ne, and at double-quick time 
at that. Without this we cannot raise 
the standard of the Industrial School 
to such a height as to command the 
proper respect among the other 
schools.
We have here the best classes that 
it has been the good fortune of the 
School of Applied Industries to pos
sess. They have the seed in them that 
will sprout a world of good for the 
School. What we need now is a little 
fertilizer to help get started on our 
purpose, to burst into a grander col
lege life than experienced up-to-date.
We can show our spirit on every 
hand to our Dean, our faculty and fel
low students in the entire institute. It 
is the most inexpensive part of our 
school career and perhaps on that ac
count is given so little consideration. 
Yet this spirit requires the most gentle 
cuddling before it gets started, to 
bring to surface a seething mass of 
enthusiasm, and by just such meetings 
as this can we get what we need so 
badlyreal Carnegie spirit.
The spirit towards our Upper 
classmen ought to be of the highest 
quality. We often read of how the 
Seniors in other institutions are treat
ed with a respect by the underclass
men with a reverence which borders 
on worship and elevates them to the 
heights of the gods. And if we want 
the same feeling to take root and be 
imbedded here we must accord our 
Upper and Middle men the respect due 
them by virtue of their seniority.
The aim of these meetings is a big
ger Industriesa better Industriesa 
greater Industriesand with such men 
as we have we can go a long ways 
towards reaching our goal this year.
This talk was received with much en
thusiasm. He was followed by Ran
dal, manager of the Industries Min
strels, who spoke of an entertainment, 
the proceeds of which are to go 
towards furnishing a new student clubroom. An announcement of an In
dustries Swim at the Oakland Natatorium was then made by Parker, pres
ident of the Lower class, who is mak
ing the arrangements for this event.
After the speech-making, the body 
went into an election for chairmanship 
of the Assembly. Messrs. J. R. Price, 
Haversteck and Cooper were nomi
nated and the honor went to Price. 
Thus ended what proved to be one of 
the greatest mass meetings ever held 
by the students of the School of Ap
plied Industries.
WEDNESDAY MASS MEETING.
Plan for Stag Dance.
At the special mass meeting called 
Wednesday noon, February 24th, in 
room 209 Science, Wm. Miller, presi
dent of the Senior Class, presented to 
the members of the Science School 
the plans for a Stag Dance, to be 
held in a laboratory in Machinery Hall, 
Saturday evening, March 7th.
The Ways and means committee of 
the ladies of the faculty, lamenting the 
lack of social school life in the ma
jority of the students, held a confer
ence with the class presidents of the 
Science School, tile Seannachie presi
dent, and the editor-in-chief of the 
Tartan, to consider plans for bettering 
this condition.
The result was, that, after consid
ering many plans, abandoning an ordi
nary dance as drawing only the usual 
crowd, already in the social doings, 
but not reaching the other students, 
whom the plan is especially for, a Stag 
Dance was decided upon.
Through the kindness of the Dean, 
it is to be in a large laboratory in Ma
chinery Hall; and only men are to be 
present, excepting the wives of the
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON
PENN AND FRANKSTOWN AVENUE, EAST END. 
We are now REBUILDING and when completed we 
will have one of the most complete and modem exclusive 
SHOE STORES in Greater Pittsburgh. 
Our business continued while rebuilding, NEW FALL 
BOOTS are arriving daily. 
WE'VE FITTED FEET OVER FORTY YEARS.
The Rittenhouse Ball Room
Affords The Best Ventilation. The Best Floor,
Most Privacy for
THE JUNIOR PROM, THE SENIOR BALL
or any similar functions given by Carnegie Tech Students 
W. R. KUHN CO.
faculty, who will furnish the eats, if 
the students furnish the music. This 
arrangement will result in a very small 
or no assessment, so this need keep 
nobody away.
The plan is to hold a similar function 
every two or four weeks; and the fair 
sex will be present at the following 
ones. The Stag Dance, modeled 
after State Colleges, is to get the up
per and lower classmen together in a 
social way; and to get them acquainted 
with themselves, the faculty, and their 
wives. This will pave the way for 
something else.
Through the kind offer of N. A. Hol
lister, manager for the musical clubs, 
music is assured; for following an en
gagement at the Hotel Schenley, the 
mandolin club will appear as early as 
possible.
After speaking of the success of 
Techs track team in the Y. M. C. A. 
meet the preceding Saturday, Miller 
made a plea for more men, especially 
short distance runners, jumpers, polevaulters, and weight men. Coach Dull 
meets all candidates every evening at 
the gym. at 5 P. M.
CHOCOLATES
"OUR MESSENGER
GOOD
CLOTHESCHEAPER
NOTICE TO MUSICAL CLUBS.
Concert at Edgewood Clubs Friday 
night, March 6th. Dance afterward. 
Bring your girl.
Concert at Hotel Schenley at 6 p. 
m. Saturday, March 7th. Strictly for
mal dress. Every man must be there.
Clothiers, Tailors,
Hatters, Furnishers
504-506 Federal Street,N. S.
We recommend the merchants advertising in the Tartan as the best in town. They will give you the best prices and quality.

---------------------------------------------------

HSPPEP artatt
BENNETTS
ALL MENS WINTER SUITS
Meaning Suits that were formerly priced $45, 
$40, $35, $28, $25
ALL OUR MENS ULSTERS
From which you may choose ulsters formerly 
$50, $45, $40 down to $25
ALL MENS OVERCOATS
Fine garments foimerlv $50, $45, $40, $35, 
$30, $28, $25 . ' .
$17.52
$20.
$20.2
BENNETT
MEANS
BEST/J. 0. BENNE1T & (0.
WOOD
AND
FIFTH
SEAL HUNTING.
(Continued from last weeks issue.)
By John S. Taylor.
The growth of the Baby Harp Seal 
or Whitecoat is amazing. From S to
10 pounds at birth, it grows in six 
weeks to 100 pounds, the beautiful 
silky pelt including the rich yellow 
fat, which is fully three inches thick, 
weighs 72 pounds, and is classed as 
prime. Every captain tries hard for 
the Whitecoats. After six weeks these 
baby seals take to the water; before, 
they are absolutely helpless, and would 
drown if pushed in by design or acci
dent, and that is why every captain is 
anxious to locate the main body as 
soon as possible. Several old captains 
have told me that they have seen the 
ice covered with seals as far as the 
telescope would bring them into focus, 
and at the report of a gun in an in
stant the vast ice field would be empty. 
Those pretty little mammals are so 
innocent that when one approaches 
they look up and cry very piteously, 
and I have seen old hunters unnerved 
by their mute appeal. A Harp Seal 
two seasons old is known as a Bedlamer, and is next in value, the older 
ones following.
The Hood Seal, the fighter of 
his species, so called from the habit 
of inflating a sinewy bladder when 
danger threatens from the tip of the 
nose back over the head. This blad
der is about the size of a football 
and impervious to bullets at close 
range. It would be useless to fire at 
the body, protected with a thick layer 
of fat, fur and membrane, beside it 
would spoil the skin; therefore, Mother 
Nature has designated the nose as the 
vital spot. A boy of twelve could 
render a young seal unconscious with 
a blow of his fist. This species seg
regate in little family groups of three 
and four (the Harp Seals congregate), 
they are larger, the color being black 
back, spotted dirty white, with dirty 
white underparts. The young are very 
pretty. A strong musk-like odor is 
emitted, differing in this respect from 
the others.
Let us trace the wanderings of these 
Mammalia, beginning well within the 
Arctic circle. During the months of 
January and February they gradually 
work south, following the field ice, 
until about the first of March, they 
sight the coast of Labrador, and con
tinuing farther south, the herds divide 
on the northern most point of the 
island of Newfoundland, some taking 
the western side of the island through 
the Gulf of St. Lawrence, the others 
taking the eastern coast out in the 
North Atlantic, the steamers sailing 
out to meet them' on the 10th of March. 
During this migration the young are 
born. Those surviving the hunt, which 
ends April 24, continue on the scat
tered ice until it finally dissolves in 
the warmer water. They then swim 
and fish their way back again, passing 
the Labrador coast, during June, July 
and August, and so in due time arrive 
within the Arctic circle to again con
tinue their annual journey.
We are now steaming through loose 
ice and there are indications of seal 
being at no great distance, when sud
denly the lookout in the crows 
nest hails the bridge with, Thou
sands of them on the port bow (mean
ing seals). Now the quartermasters 
are arranging their men in companies 
of twenty and equipping them with 
flags, the name of the ship being on 
each flag. Also a gaff and rope. The 
quartermaster is responsible for his 
men and carries a compass by which 
he can take his course from the ship. 
He is chosen for ability as a navigator, 
also resourcefulness. We are rapidly 
plowing our way, the ice is becomingmore compact. Scattered seals may 
now be seen from the deck. There 
goes one of the men overboard after 
a Whitecoat. Yes; he has it and pres
ently a beautiful, plump cat is thrown 
over the bulwarks to the deck. The 
flesh of the seal is very wholesome, 
and a taste for it is easily acquired, 
the color, and taste, of the meat are 
precisely the same as that of sea birds, 
such as the curlew, gull, and brill bird. 
Some foreign men of note who have 
been at the hunt have acquired a lik
ing for the meat, and every season 
have a portion packed in ice and dis
patched to their respective homes.
All hands are now mustered on deck 
(8 bells being given) for seals are on 
all sides, best of all, we are alone, al
though smoke can be seen on the 
horizon. The captain from the bridge 
advises the men to be cautious, then 
with the word, Away, almost in
stantly the deck is cleared. Looking 
around one may see the men placing 
or planting their flags (in other words 
staking claims, which claims are in
violate), the object being to cover 
as much surface as possible before 
other ships can land their men. Then 
the kill can be proceeded with. 
Should several ships enter the main 
body of seals at the same time, then 
the most desperate rivalry may be 
seen. The company planting the most 
flags from any ship under these con
ditions are immediately known to the 
glory of the ships company, and the 
captains honor.
(To be continued.)
All Rights Reserved.
STAG DANCE.
For Members of the Science School.
On Saturday evening, March 7, there 
will be held in Machinery Hall a stag 
dance for members of the four classes 
in the Science School. This is the first 
of a series of affairs which the ladies 
of the Ways and Means Committee of 
the Science faculty are planning to 
give in the interests of the student 
body. It was thought best to make 
the first one a stag affair, so that the 
students may get well acquainted with 
each other and may feel perfectly at 
ease. The plan is somewhat similar to 
one which is in vogue at Penn State, 
where these stag dances are most suc
cessful affairs and are participated in 
by the entire student body. Members 
of the Science faculty and their wives 
are expected to be present, and the stu
dents will have an opportunity to meet 
the faculty on a basis independent of 
the class room.
The Ways and Means Committee 
has made all arrangements for refresh
ments, and the students will furnish 
the music. Some of the members of 
the Musical Clubs have also promised 
to come over after the concert which 
they are giving at the Schenley on the 
same evening, and they will contribute 
some of their songs to the gayety of 
the affair. The C. I. T. Orchestra has 
also been invited to attend. The Com
mittee in charge expects every Science 
man to come and enjoy the evening.
CRUCIBLE CLUB MEETING.
On Friday night, February 27, the 
Crucible Club met in their clubroom 
on the fourth floor of the Science 
building. The meeting, which was to 
be in room 113, moved to the club
room on the non-appearance of Mr.
E. P< Pose, an old Tech instructor, who 
had promised to speak on Enamel. 
The business meeting was carried 
through with dispatch by the presi
dent, Corbett; but its adjournment 
only began the evening; for soon 
everybody was thoroughly enjoying 
himself at chess, checkers, or cards, 
or else in the recalling of summer ex
periences in vacation work, between 
mouthfuls of ice cream, cake and 
coffee.
NEW ENGLAND CLUB SMOKER.
The New England Club smoker last 
Friday evening in the Science club
room proved a very enjoyable time for 
those present.
This club, which numbers about 100 
members of New Englanders, is a 
means of many of the students from 
that section learning to know each 
other; since it is open to students from 
all schools. Last Friday, a small pro
portion of the members were present, 
but these thoroughly enjoyed them
selves.
SCIENCE SOPH. ELECTION.
President, A. S. Hines, Civil 
Vice President, W. E. Boak, Chem. 
Secretary, A. M. Stevenson, Elec. 
Treasurer, K. S. Henning, Mech.
THE STANDARD OF EXCELLENCE
MCDONALD'S
Candies and Ice Cream Sodas, 
Dainty Lunch.
Tables for Ice Cream.
Fancy Boxes, Baskets, Flavors, etc 
208 Sixth Street, Pittsburgh, Pa.
TECH LUNCH
4527 Forbes Street 
REGULAR DINNER 25 CENTS
(4:00 to 8:00 P. M.)
SOUP.
MEATS.
(Choice of one)
VEGETABLES
(Three)
Bread, Butter, Coffee, Tea or Milk. Desert
Tickets $5.50 for $5.00
SCIENCE JUNIORS ELECT OFFI
CERS FOR SECOND 
SEMESTER.
The Science Juniors held their first 
class meeting of the second semester 
Thursday morning, February 26, and 
sad to relate, after the semi-annual 
counting of noses, three were found to 
be missing. They were unable to 
weather the storm of mid-year cross 
examinations and took shelter outside 
the school limits, having ceased, tem
porarily at least, the pursuit of the
coveted sheepskin.
The report of the Prom committee 
was given and a rising vote of thanks 
extended to its members for their ef
forts in making this yearss dance 
such a tremendous success. Before 
proceeding with the election, W. F. 
Welch was complimented for the able 
manner in which he executed his duties 
as class president during the first sem
ester. The following men were 
chosen to offices:
W. M. Sheldon, President 
H. W. Pentermann, Vice President
G. R. Carroll, Secretary
D. L. Kinch, Treasurer
prices and quality.We recommend the merchants advertising in the Tartan as th e best in town. They will give you the best
