:>!*. hammehschl a rv
?ZIU1rNJ\J
?
VOL. VII. NO. 18:>!*.ha. m*esascs. lr v.TM*lilhdn Uassepc!hMn U.**ediC>*a>,.p!c>!d 13, 1913.
STUDENT SENATE ELECTION
The Middle and Upper Classes, 
School of Applied Industries, will 
hold an election soon, probably the 
first week of the second semester, to 
elect members to the Student Senate. 
The Upper Class has four men and 
the Middle Class two men to elect, 
and it is recommended that the mem
bers from the Upper Class be selected 
from different courses and that the 
middle men be chosen one from the 
Building Const. Class and one from 
the Machine Const. Class. The above 
plan is recommended in order to 
satisfy the pessimistic element among 
the students, whose flimsy argument 
heretofore has been that the present 
members of the Senate are mostly 
Machine Const, men. But what need 
of any argument at all as long as 
that body of men, whether mostly 
Machine Const, students or Building 
Const, students, perform their duty, 
and make no discrimination whatever 
in their dealings?
The present Senate has been instru
mental in bettering conditions about 
the Building, and each member has 
sacrificed both time and pleasure in 
enforcing the rules of the School, 
which rules are reasonable and are 
respected to all times by the pro
gressive element of the students. It 
should be the duty of each individual 
student to support the Senate in 
every possible way, and to respect 
and honor each individual member 
of that body because of his position 
and because of the type of student 
which he is required to represent.
The Senate in carrying on its work 
so successfully has been approved and 
congratulated by the Director of the 
Institution, endorsed and supported 
by the Dean and the Discipline Com
mittee, and has been praised by the 
Faculty.
Hamilton, Maxwell, Elliott, Charl
ton, Alexander, Bollinger, and Hulet 
are the men who have been instru
mental in making this student organ
ization the success it is, and deserve 
credit for the work they have done 
in this particular line of student 
activity.
THISTLE PICTURES
The Thistle Board earnestly -requests 
that all seniors will get their pictures 
taken at once. The week of February 10 
will be devoted to getting the pictures 
of the M. M. C. S. Seniors and Societies. 
The following week will be used in getting 
the Seniors, organizations and societies of 
the mens schools. As soon as we can 
get at the second semester schedules we 
will post notices on all the bulletin boards 
telling each particular section at what 
time their pictures will be taken care of. 
Watch for this and follow it out in every 
detail. We can have no delays and if 
you are not on time you must wait until 
another time can be arranged for you. 
When you get the proofs of your pictures 
be sure to O. K. them and turn them in 
as soon as possible so we can get them in 
to the engraver. We need your co-operation in getting this work completed and 
we have made things very easy by es
tablishing a studio In the Design Building. 
Please make use of this exceptional op
portunity by going to the studio at your 
earliest convenience.
DULL TO COACH RACERS
GROVE CITY HERE TONIGHT
Grove City will play the return game 
at the Field House tonight. The game 
is bound to be a hummer, to use con
venient slang, and every minute of play 
will be interesting. At the game played 
on their home floor two weeks ago, the 
Red and White won out on fouls by the 
score of 2322. Our team has learned 
its lesson and will not let them win by 
the same method again. The Plaid five 
showed itself the superiors in the floor 
game, and if they play up to the standard 
of the last few games, should have no 
trouble winning. At any rate, come out 
at 8:30.
Just a reminder, that Plebe-Soph Hop 
after the Muskingum game on the 28th, 
is a sure thing. Full details will be in 
next weeks Tartan, but you are now 
promised a good time, even if you cant 
go to the Prom.
FULCRUM CLUB MEETS TO-NIGHT
The Fulcrum Club has its regular month
ly meeting to-night in its Club room and 
it is hoped that 11 the members will make 
an effort to be present. The members of 
the Junior Class have promised to enter
tain the members with a minstrel show 
and mock trial.
Mr. Gayle Dull, track star of the P. A. A. 
and known as one of the best two and 
five milers in the country, has been en-* 
gaged as coach for this years track team. 
Mr. Dull received most of his training at 
the University of Michigan under the 
competent coaches of that institution, but 
has since added experience under the best 
coaches and trainers of the nation. His 
long list of competitions makes him an 
authority in all track events, while his 
special ability in the distance runs adds 
value to his word about such events.
Mr. Dull assumed his duties last Satur
day when he spoke briefly to the squad 
in the Field House. He asked that they 
start earnest training for the Y. M. C. A. 
meet on February 22, and that they also 
try to get out other men of past experience 
or ability. He spoke of the value of cross
country work for all branches of sport, 
and described the special advantages that 
the Institute enjoys through its location 
in Schenley Park, an ideal place for cross
country work.
Manager Engstrom announced that he 
is planning another Track Hop, but 
has not yet set a date for the function. 
The success of the last one is a guarantee 
of the need for more social events of this 
nature.
SEANNACHIE SOCIETY HAS DINNER
NIGHT DRAFTSMEN WILL HOLD 
MEETING
The Night Draftsmen Club will hold 
their regular meeting on Thursday even
ing, February 13th, at 9:30 in the Club' 
Room. All Night Draftsmen are asked 
to attend.
Last Saturday evening the Seannachie 
Society met and had an informal dinner 
in East Liberty. The fact that some of 
the members were away on the inspection 
trips cut into the attendance somewhat, 
but there was, nevertheless, a fair turnout 
of the members, all of whom enjoyed 
themselves to the utmost. The program, 
if there was such a thing, called for no 
formal speeches, the various members 
merely discussing matters of interest over 
among themselves.
The next meeting of the Society has 
been called for the afternoon of Wednes
day, February 19th. It is hoped that all 
the members of the society will make a 
special effort to be present at that meeting 
as several important matters are to come 
up for discussion.
Guy Wehr says, We took em just 
like Grant took Richmond.
SENIORS
-------O-------:
Whenever you have a minute or two to 
yourself go over to the Thistle Studio on 
on the top floor of the Design Building 
and get your picture taken. We want 
it for our engraver. Get a little jerry on 
you.
MUSICAL CLUBS AT ASPINWALL
The Carnegie Musical Clubs entertained 
a large audience of Aspinwall residents 
with a concert last Friday night. A girls 
organization of the United Presbyterian 
Church was the sponsor for the evening, 
and it was to the young ladies credit as 
well as to that of the drawing powers of 
the musicians that standing room in the 
School Hall was at a premium early in the 
evening. With a sympathetic and appre
ciative audience, the clubs acquitted them
selves with glory. All of the numbers 
were roundly applauded, and numerous 
encores demanded.
After the concert, the hostesses assumed 
the rol of entertainers, and, following 
out the old saw as to the surest way to a 
mans heart, refreshed the collegians with 
a spread that left nothing to be desired 
but a larger capacity. With such charm ing 
company as the beauty of Aspinwall 
afforded, the boys were loath to leave, 
but finally departed with promises of 
future return. It is to be hoped that 
Aspinwall will be on the schedule for next 
year.
The date of the Home Concert, March
12, is approaching so swiftly that the 
Clubs are deep in the final rush of prepara
tion. The program will be of the highest 
class that has ever been heard in Pitts
burgh from college organizations. The 
clubs are of that quality that has led the 
directors to place such faith in them as to 
select a wide range of musical themes for 
the big performance. There is not the 
slightest doubt but what the clubs will 
fulfill this confidence and provide a mus
ical tre'at that will surpass anything ever 
given by college musicians.
Tickets for the Home Concert will be on 
sale about March 1st, at times and places 
to be announced later. The dance that 
will follow the concert will be formal this 
year, and the attendance limited to 
seventy-five couples besides the member
ship of the clubs. These seventy-five 
tickets will be issued in order of priority, 
or in simpler words, first come, first served. 
This means, start saving now, in order to 
get in on the ground floor, and attend the 
dance.
There are still many students who 
have not bought their Thistle receipts. 
This is very bad business. It only takes 
a dollar to insure beyond any doubt that 
a Thistle will be printed for you. He who 
puts off buying a receipt until too late 
will surely f eel badly. You only have two 
weeks in which to buy your receipt. After 
that time there will be nothing doing. 
We must know how many books to print 
before the book goes to press and we can 
only decide on this number from our re
ceipts.
We have already received a great num
ber of answers to our well known slogan, 
Why is a mouse when it spins, but there 
is still a chance for you. Remember you 
must hold a Thistle receipt of you want 
to enter the contest. If you are the 
winner you will receive your copy of the 
Thistle without further obligation. The 
first best answer wins. Contest is open 
until April 1st.
CLASS HISTORIANSNOTICE!
Get your class histories in to the Thistle 
at the earliest possible moment. This 
matter will not brook delav.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE TARTAN
THE TARTAN
Published weekly by the Undergraduates 
of the Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
Business communications should be 
addressed to the BUSINESS EDITOR; 
all articles and other communications 
should be sent to the EDITOR-IN-CHIEF.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
Yea-ly $1.00 5c per Copy
Entered in the Post Office of Pitts
burgh as second class matter.
PITTSBURGH, PA., FEB, 13, 1913.
ACADEMY OF SCIENCE AND ART
There is a very interesting course of free 
lectures and discussions carried on in the 
Carnegie Lecture Hall about which the 
students, judging from their lack of at
tendance, know little. These lectures 
cover a variety of subjects and from among 
those offered every student should be 
able to select something to interest him. 
These lectures are free and it seems too 
bad that the students should neglect the 
opportunity to avail themselves of this 
~'rance to gather interesting information 
so easily. The meetings begin at 8:15 
P. M., and the schedule is as follows: 
Tonight, February 13thGeorge Linn 
Kieffer on Gettysburg.
February 20thFrederic Poole on The 
Valley of the Yang-tse the third of a 
series of four lectures on China.
February 27thJohn F. Cargill on The 
White Canyon, Natural Bridges, and Cliff 
Dwellings of the Utah Desert. Mr. 
Cargill is a mining engineer.
March 6thFrederic Poole on The 
New China, the last of the series.
March 13thPresident Edmund Clark 
Sanford on A Celebrated Case of Human 
and Anirral Psychology. This is Aca
demy Founders Day.
March 20thDr. Arthur L. Day on 
Volcanoes and their Chemistry.
March 27thProfessor Robert Kennedy 
Duncan of the Chemical Department of 
the University of Pittsburgh will lecture.
April 3rdVaclar Losa on Glimpses of 
Bohemia.
April 10thDr. John A. Brashear will 
lecture. Everybody knows Uncle John. 
He should have a good welcome.
Many of these lectures are illustrated 
with lantern slides and some with motion 
pictures.
The ballot on your Thistle receipt is 
there for a purpose. Every holder of a 
receipt i; entitled to one vote for the man 
or woman, he or she thinks is the most 
popular in his or her school. Make your 
choice, write his or her name on your ballot 
and drop it in the Thistle box. Every
one holding a receipt should take advan
tage of this opportunity to vote for the 
most popular man or woman in his or her 
school. There can only be one from each 
school and there will be a page devoted 
to the lucky ones. Vote early and often! !
A FEW FACTS
Few people realize how far the students 
travel to get to Tech. A few figures from 
the Plebe architect class will go. a little
ways towards showing the distance some 
of the fellows travel to get to' school, also 
the cost of railroad fare expended. The 
following is the attendance by states.
Pennsylvania..............................................10
Ohio............................................................... 6
New York.................................................... 2
North Carolina........................................... 2
Virginia....................... ............................. 2
Texas............................................................. 2
Florida.......................................................... 1
New Hampshire.......................................... 1
Minnesota.................................................... 1
Connecticut................................................ 1
Maryland..................................................... 1
California..................................................... 1
The total enrollment being 30, Penn 
seems to hold her own. These 30 students 
travel a total of 13,115 miles or an average 
of 437. The total railroad fare expended 
is $365.08 or an average of $12.17. The 
greatest amount spent by any one man is 
$91. This man lives in Los Angeles, 
California. The least amount is 5 cents. 
This is spent by the two whose home is 
in Pittsburgh.
Some of the Southerners when asked 
why they came tQ Tech gave this reply: 
That Tech was the only northern school 
ever commended in the south and so 
chose it instead of one closer to home.
The idea that Tech is the only school, 
is growing every day and it is up to every 
one of us to help put it on the map by 
graduating because, By her graduates 
shall she be known.
All material must be in by February 25, 
1913 so dont put off getting your dope in 
line.
CHICAGO ALUMNI GET TOGETHER
The Alumni, of the Day School of Ap
plied Science, who are now located in 
Chicago had their first get together meet
ing on Thursday night, February 6th.
A letter from G. A. Burnside and J. S. 
Wilson states that everyone had a good 
old Tech time and much Tech spirit was 
evident. We dont know whether to 
attach a double meaning to that last or 
not we know the love for Carnegie Tech 
was there however. The following men 
were present:
G. A. (Lety) Burnside, Electrical, 08. 
Formerly with Commonwealth Edison 
Co., now Assistant Distribution Engineer 
of Illinois Northern Utilities Co.
J. S. Wilson, Metallurgical, 09. As
sistant salesman of The American Rolling 
Mill Co., of Middletown, O.
E. B. Taggart, Mining, 10. Recently 
returned from the west and now Chicago 
salesman of Milwaukee Locomotive Manu
facturing Co.
H. P. (Bunny) Mason, Civil, 10. 
Engineer with Penn. R. R. Now engaged 
on the elevation of the Pennsys tracks 
into Chicago.
W. P. (Dutch) Gettman Electrical, 
11. Western Electric Co.
The Tartan appreciates the co-operation 
of the Chicago Alumni and wishes them 
all success. Will other bodies both out 
of and in Tech follow this good example 
and turn in material, it is always interest
ing.
HAVE YOU
Bought your Thistle receipt? 
yourself of that dollar now.
Divest
SONG COMPETITION
The second song competition is now in 
progress, and it behooves every student 
and every Alumnus to bend his every 
effort toward his production of good songs
The only requirements are that the 
song shall be original, appropriate, cheer
ful and inspiring in character. If you 
have talent, write one. If you cannot 
compose write the words and have your 
friend furnish the music. If you cannot 
do either, speak to your friends and urge 
them to action. But do somethingand 
do it quickly. The contest closes March 
31st, 1913. For any further information 
consult H. Carlisle, Manager, 5437 Alyesboro Ave.
The old system of using a heated 
iron and dirty cloth presses the grime 
and dirt into your garments. Our 
sanitary machine steams it all out, and 
removes permanently the dirt, pers
piration, odor and grime. See Shu
man the Dry Cleaner, 3911 Forbes 
street.
Ice Cream and Cakes
Sold to Tech Students at special rates 
See us about the eatins for your doins
THE HALLER BAKERY
3618 Forbes Ave., Iroquois Block
THE SCHENLEY FARMS
Pittsburghs Restricted Residence District
THE SCHENLEY FARMS CO.
1412 Farmers Bank Bldg.
Chocolates
606 Wood Street Down townHighland & Centre Aves. East End
The popular  Belmont  notch Collar 
made in self striped Madras. 2 for 25cAR-HOWCOLLARS
Cluett, Peabody & Co., Makers
If you dont trade here we both lose
RANDOLPH & McCLEMENTS
-oFloral Expertso5936 Penn Ave., near Highland 
Private Branch Exchange Hiland 25
The Tango
McDougali Dancing Classes
Shady and Penn 
Wood and 5th 
4616 Forbes Street
Bell Phone 2797 Cedar. P. &. A. Phone 952-A
H. A. BECKER,
MUSIC HOUSE 
EVERYTHING KNOWN IN MUSIC 
Headquarters for Band and Orchestra 
Instruments, Music and Supplies 
No 601 Ohio Street ses l f COCorner of Middle N* Pittsburgh, ra*
Sporting Goods, Cutlery, College 
Pennants, Banners & Pillow Tops. 
HUKILL=HUNTER CO.
414 Wood St.
Mellon JMational^ Bank
514 Smithfield Street
409 Fifth Avenue
Capital and Surplus $7,800,000
BETWEEN FRIENDS
One of the few things that can come between friends. In fact the oftener it comes the better she likes it.
R E Y M E R S
Choice Lenten Delicacies
in ample variety at 
STEVENSONS STORES
Bell phvorve 3465 Grant
Standard Desks, Macey Filing Cabinets and Sectional Boak Cases, Steel Book Units, Filin Devices and Safe Cabinets
J. Q. Marshall Company
Office and Library Furniture 
959 Liberty Avenue Pittsburg, Pa.
Patronize our Advertisers.
GKKGORIO 8CALZO
----Leader Carnegie Tech Mandolin Club-----
Music for all occasions. Exceptional Dance Orchestras at
reasonable price.
AddressAtwood & Cable TelephoneSchenley 1638-R
2
Musical Clubs Home Concert
Seat Sale Opens Mar. I st
When Making Purchases Mention THE TARTAN, it helps.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN3
Topics of the Day
Readings in the Current Magazines 
Recommended for the Next Week.
Thought for the week: The char
acteristic sign of a mind of the high
est order is that it derays judges at 
first hand. Everything it advances 
is the result of thinking for itself; 
and this is every where evident by 
the way in which it gives its thoughts 
utterance. Such a mind is like a 
prince. Everyone who ready thinks 
for himself, is so far like a monarch. 
His position is undelegated and su
preme. His judgments, like royal 
decrees, spring from his own sover
eign power and proceed directly from 
himself.Schopenhauer, On Thinking 
for One's Self.
The War in the Balkans
'The Balkan Success.Outlook, Feb
ruary 1, p. 246.
The Bulgo-Rumanian Tiff.Literary 
Digest, February 1, p. 222.
Some interesting articles on the Balkan 
situation are found in the Current Opin
ion, February, 1913, p. 99.
Government and Politics.
The Panama Problem, Outlook, 
February 1, p. 249, enables the reader 
to get a good understanding of it and 
the suggested, solutions.
Woodrow Wilsons Trust Treat
ment."Literary Digest, February 1, p. 
213.
The Honor of the Nation.Nation, 
January 23, 1913, p. 69. Repealing the 
Panama exemption clause. The ex
emption has been earmarked both as 
a violation of the nations plain promise 
and as a grant of a subsidy.
Slippery Diplomacy.  The Inde
pendent, January 30, p. 224. A protest 
on the action of Congress regarding 
the canal tolls.
"Advancing the Inauguration.Na
tion. January 23, 1913, p. 69. To rush 
a candidate from the hurly-burly of a 
campaign straight into the White House 
would take him at a disadvantage. 
(See editorial on same subject in num
ber of January 30.)
A Blow at Lobbyism.Nation, Jan
uary 30, 1913, p. 93. Put the lobbyists 
in uniform and members of the Legis
lature will shun them like the pest. 
"It is the most thorough application yet 
of the principle of being shown.  
(Law was passed by Legislature of 
Missouri.)
Militant Suffragism.Nation, Jan
uary 30, 1913, p. 95. Violence as part 
of British suffragist tactics will be more 
than ever unwise after the events of 
the last few days.
"The French Presidency.  Nation, 
January 23, 1913, p. 74. A man of 
calibre superior to the average run of 
French Presidents.Mr. Poincare.
"The beginning of the End of the 
Chinese Republic.  Curernt Opinion, 
February, 1913, p. 104. An account of 
the situation in China, and of the pres
sure Russia is bringing to bear on the 
new republic.
The Scandal of the Federal Appro
priation Bills.The World's Wofk,
February, 1913, p. 438. By Theodore
E. Burton, Senator from Ohio. Shows 
the scramble to get money from Con
gress for local expenditure regardless 
of national interests or statesmanlike 
economy. Shows great waste of public
 funds and how it may be prevented.
The New Freedom.The Worlds 
Work, February, 1913, p. 421. By 
Woodrow Wilson. A call for the 
emancipation of the generous energies 
of a people, a plea for bringing back 
the government to the people.
What I Am Trying to Do.The 
Worlds Work, February, 1913, p. 396. 
By Frederick Haynes Newell, director 
of the United States Reclamation Serv
ice. Colossal government construction 
of dams, canals and ditches for the 
purpose of making the desert fit for 
homes.
Economics
The Waste of Retailing, the per
sonal experience of a saleswoman. 
Outlook, February 1, p. 263. A very 
readable and interesting account.
A Strike and Its Remedies.Out
look, February 1, p. 253.
' Women Who Will Help Men. 
The Independent, January 30, p. 237. 
By Beatrice Harraden. States the 
meaning and promise of the feminist 
movement.
Western Land Problems.The In
dependent, January 30, p. 250. By J. H. 
T. Main, President of Gunnell College. 
A critical situation is at hand, produced 
by the rapid use in the price of land.
Wanderlust in Business.The In
dependent, January 30, p. 244. By 
William Frederick Dix. Draws for us 
a picture of the impulses that lead men 
away from their proper business into 
strange adventures.
The Trust Problem.The Inde
pendent, January 30, p. 227. Suggests 
the need of a Federal executive com
mission, empowered to supervise and 
regulate the conduct of great industrial 
companies.
Science
Rails That Lock Together.Liter
ary Digest, February 1, p. 229. A radi
cal change from the regulation railjoint is proposed by the inventor of a 
new interlocking joint.
Tardy Caution.Nation, January
30, 1913. Ruling of the British Board 
of Trade that all vessels carry sufficient 
lifeboats.
Flugtechnick im Jahre 1912/O. 
Romberg in Uber Land und Meer, 
number 14, 1913, p. 384. - Article on 
development qf aeronautics in Ger
many. With six good illustrations.
Telephoning Unlimited Distances. 
C. Neumann in Uber Land und Meer, 
p. 39^, number 14, 1913. The NernstLieben relay system has been success
fully tested by the German govern
ment.
Modern Psycho,logy.  Scientific 
American,  January 25. Psychology 
had no independent standing as a 
science until 1878, when Wund estab
lished his labratory in Leipsig. Psy
chology is the hand maid of all 
sciences.
Micro-Motion Study.  Scientific 
American, January 25. A new develop
ment in efficiency engineering.
The Shape of Bottom 
NEW CUSTOM SHOE
STOEBENER
6227 Penn Avenue 
6222 Frankstown Avenue
Man With Quality Shoes
East End
True Values B & B True Values
clothing
Young Mens $18.50 and $20.00 Suits30 to 38 chest measureGrey 
and Tan Mixt materials and fancy Blue Serges, $10.00.
$20.00 Double Breasted Ulster Coats, detachable belt, convertible collar 
button tabs on sleeves, serge lining, $13.50.
.00 Full Dress White Shirts, $1.00. 
.50 White Shirts, $1.15.
.00 Fancy Shirts, 75c.
Boggs & Buhl, 
Pittsburgh, Penn'a <
City Office;
631 Penn Avenue
East End Office;
S. Highland Ave. and Baum Street
Oswald Werner & Sons Co.
Pittsburghs Oldest and Largest 
Dyeing and Cleaning Works
New Private Branch Exchange. Call Hiland 1138 
Main Office and Works: Cor* Bryant, St.Clair and Mellon Sts.
HOTEL SCHENLEY
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Under the Management of the Schenley Hotel and Restaurant Company 
Roman H Heyn, President 
ROOM RATES $2.00 PER DAY AND UPWARDS
Practically all the functions of the Carnegie Institute of Technology are 
held at the Schenley. Our rates have been considerably reduced, and we have 
engaged Mr. Widmer, the chef of the Union Restaurant, to be in charge f our 
kitchen department; Mr. Widmer having been at the Union Restaurant for 10 
years, is perfectly acquainted with the wants and demands of our local support 
ers, and we are therefore in the best position to take care of YOUR trade at 
reasonable rates.PHONE 285 SCHENLEY
YOURE NEXT
Tech Sanitary Barber Shop
Harry F. Van Curen, Prop.
Cor. Ci tip and Forbes Street 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Every service a bank may render its 
customers is performed by
The Oakland 
Savings & Trust Co*
Iroquois Block 
Cheerfully, promptly and on the 
best of terms.
Capital $200,030.00
Surplus and Profits $200.000.00
Deposits over $1,300,030.00
BUTTER, EGGS,
COFFEE, TEAS,
POULTRY, ETC. 
ALL AT RIGHT PRICES
Oakland Butter Market
3714 FORBES STREET Phone 710 Schenley. We Deliver
GOOD
CLOTHES
CHEAPER
Clothiers, Tailors, 
Hatters, Furnishers
504-506 Federal St.t N. S.
4**I u. ft. numcni 
4*4* 3614 Forbes Ave. Iroquois Block -g.4* ^
"Mens Wear Storefr &#
a UP-TO-DATE J
4*
4* c nr *$ bnappy logs *
^ H% for the young man always %
4* &
% on the tray. %
4* #
C. A. HEIMERT
When Making Purchases Mention THE TARTAN, it helps.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
P. Ludebuehl & SonTheaters Week of Feb. 13BUREAU OF RECOMMENPenn and Frankstown, E. E.
DATIONS
GEE=WHIZ,==at $4.00ALVINThe Merry Countess an 
Americanized version of Strauss Der 
Fleidermus, in which interpolated music 
and a splendid company combine.
Full Time Employmentone of our 40 NEW FALL STYLES in 
Mens Boots. This is strictly a young 
mans boot, with lots of style, and good 
fitting qualities.
^Built for us by a famous Brockton Man
ufacturer.
Topographical draftingFor a railroad 
company. A man with experience pre
ferred. Must be neat letterer. Salary 
$60 per month.
Clerical work in engineering concern. 
Openings for two or three night students 
with some technical training and office 
experience.
Draftsmen and tracers. Several men 
wanted. Salary $50 to $65 per month.
Several men wanted for efficiency work. 
Should have knowledge of machine shop 
practice.
Metallurgist wanted for concern in New 
Castle, Pa. Man preferred who has had 
some little experience in foundry practice.
Structural draftsmen for work inYoungstown, Ohio. Men with limited experience 
can qualify.
Designer on rolling mill machinery; for 
steel company in this city. Salary from 
$100 to $125 per month.
NIXONMrs. Fiske will be seen in 
Edward Sheldons new play, The High 
Road.
Step in Our Mens DepartmentDUQUESNEThe Stock Company will 
present Leah Kleschira. Mrs. Fiskes
old success.Just Right Clothing
For College Men
Suits $13.50 to $35.00 
Overcoats $15.00 to $45.00
Just Right Clothing comes direct from maker to wearer. Therefore 
saving the middlemens profit. This item is worthy of consideration.
McCREERY & CO.
Wood and Sixth Street
GRANDHarry Woodruff in a little 
play of humor and pathos will head th 
vaudeville bill at th th Grand.
LYCEUMFisk OHara, the Irish sin
ger player will be seen and heard in a 
pretty Irish play.
WHY IS A MOUSE WHEN IT SPINS?
Write something for the Thistle. Prove 
to yourself that you have some brains.Patronize our Advertisers,1913
Derby and Soft 
Hats for Spring
Tommy
Thomas Speedwell Carson, commonly 
known as Tommy, as well as pursuing 
his studies, holds a number of very promi
nent positions in the new Design Building, 
several of them being class monitor in the 
illustrating department, assistant to Mr. 
Holmes, getter of models, keeper of class 
credits, and last but not least, keeper 
of the supply room on the fifth floor.
Now the last job is by no means a 
cinch as every one in the Design use many 
supplies and most of these are purchased 
from Tommy.
Now the girls, of whom there is a great
number in this department, understanding 
high finance perfectly and the value of 
keeping as much as possible of their money 
on interest, buy supplies just as they need 
them and knowing the impossibility of 
trying to use two pieces of charcoal or 
two pieces of paper at the same time 
naturally buy but one. Of course this 
necessitates many extra trips to the supply 
room than would be made otherwise.
So Tommys patience is taxed to the 
utmost for almost everyone waits until 
the supply room is closed before buying 
supplies, then the cry is raised, Wheres
Carson? or Has anybody here seen 
Carson? Some wouldbe artist must 
have some supplies before he can ever 
work out an idea for an illustration. So 
he is tracked from the office to the class 
room, from there to the basement, then 
back up to the office, then to the life room 
where loud knocks are heard and Carson 
is dragged forth to wait on some poor 
ink slinger or waste-paper artist. Thus 
his life is one of much variety, many 
trials and worries and as for importance 
the instructors arent in it. Hes the 
busiest man in school.
It's time you gave your old 
hat a lift, change it for the 
snappiest style you ever wore.
I MUST FIN0 THAT rNN
I'VE GOT rN HAl/ some supplies
BEFORE I CNN WORK
CAN YOU TELL ME 
WHEffE MR CARSON 15
DO YOU KNOW 
WHERE MR C/l/rsON 15
Phone 1071 HilandOpen Monday and Saturday Evenings
Young Men
are cordially invited to join the Bellefield 
Presbyterian Church Chorus Choir. See 
MR. MAYHEW 
at the church, cor. 5th Ave. and Bellefield 
Street Saturday evenings at 7:30.
MfN'S
LJfE CLASS
Butdosu
Enterprise Pressing Company
Cleaners and Dyers
Perfect Work in Ladies Childrens and 
Household Work
Oriental Rugs and Draperies a Specialty 
203 Highland Bldg. Pittsburgh, Pa.
Phones: Offiec 449 Hiland Works: 4912 Hiland
THE BOSTON
will be taught in class Wednesday 
evenings at 8 P. M. at the
Jacques Dancing Academy
CRAIG AND FORBES STREET
HW CNRSON PLENSE1 
5ELL HE N PENNY'5 
WORTH OF CHNRCONL
WHAT 00 YOU 
WANT PLASE
LNDY ATTH DOOf?
IM USS you TonnrIS HR CNRSON 
IN THERE"] HOPE IT5^ 
HENRIETTN
O. C. HENRY
339 Fifth Ave.
PHOT OGRAPHS
We make a specialty of school groups, class 
and fraternity pictures. Prices the lowest and 
work the best.  Telephone Grant 3581.
Stop at
STAUFTS
NewsStationerTobacco 
orbes Street, Pittsburgh, Pa.
When Making Purchases Mention THE TARTAN, it helps.
